. j . j ' f Hasbro 's Hidden Evil .page 10 Sports: Crimson Fall to Dutchmen page20 ...Aik ~.-· ·t·.··.··.; .. ,•,:;. \ .) The Stutfi!1lt Newspaper o.f Union College Since 1877 ·~··· ... Volum-: CX\\l. \>Jumb\?r !X. · ·_ :S..:-~.1-,;n~,_:i;.J:,},·. '';:v\: Y~id< · · - : · · · . · · -. · .Lrmm'~. ·.u?>.l9ijrf- • ' ' l ~ 1 ' • • • ' • • ~ '\' •'I- •• .·~ • ' ' ... Hull Searches for Rink Options by Jody Mousseau Staff Writer Union College is faced with a diletmna as to what to do about the deteriorating physical sta~us of Achilles Rink. Presently, sev- eral com pressors are notfwnction- ing in the rink, which would cost upwards of$2 million to replace. Achilles Rink in its current state is a·questionable place to host a Division I hockey team. How- ever, moving the Union men's and women's ice hockey teams to an off-campus facility is also questionable. After the student body dis- persed for winter break in No- vember, President Hull was ap- proached by a developer and the Schenectady Youth Hockey Commission and was asked if Union would be interested in the construction of a first class hockey facility. The $9 million facility with three sheets o{ice would be located three blocks off campus near the Ramada Inn on a lot owned primarily by David P. Fusco, Achilles Rink presently accom1nodates several y()tiLh hockey teams, which provides significant revenue for the ma:.ia- tenance of Achilles Rink. A nttni- ber of ice rinks throughout til-e area are planning on closing,, which creates a space dilemma br some of the local youth hocke:y programs who will soon .be searchit_1g for new home rin.ks. Theproposedplan would acc()ITl- modate both the Union CoHege hockey programs and the lo<:a:J youth hockey programs. Presi- dent Hull is considering the ()f: fer, though no decisions have :yet been made. On January 14, a:n article in the Daily Gazette state<! that «Union and the youth hockey league would lease space.\ H()w- ever, Union has not determine<! whether they will accept the -()f- fer, or what costs the college would incur if they were to .~c­ cept the offer. If the Union hockey progra.m:s werete bemovedoffcampus, :the college would be left witll a-n .empty building. President lfull has stated that ifthe college doe:s accept the offer to move into fl1:e Winter hits the the Union Campus (Photo by Laurie Kirshner/TC) proposed facility, he would like to see Achilles Rink converted into student social space. Some proposals have included moving the bookstore and mailroom to the rink and perhaps bui1ding another physical fitness facility. How- ever, Hull also commented that at this stage.., many ideas are being considered and no deals or plans have been negotiated. · On Tuesday, January 7, Presi- dent Hull met with the men's and women's hockey teams and the Studeht Forum. At the meeting· with the men and women hockey players, many concerns were voiced by the P.layers regarding moving the hockey programs off campus. Two concerns included the safetyofall individuals walk- ing back and forth between the rink and campus and what the terms of the lease agreement would be if the college did decide to pursue a lease agreement. In terms of safety, President Hull assured the players that the safety of students would he taken into consideration ifthe proposal were to be carried out. lfthe proposal was carried eut, a lease agrcc1nent would be negotiated in 15-20year intervals .. One main concern in relation to a potential lease agree- ment. was the security of the hockey programs at Union. Union hockey would not have its continued on page 4 It's Time to Reach Out and Touch a Button Aileen Quigley Assistant News Editor In the six weeks over Winter Break, when mpstof us were cel- ebrating the holidays, recuperat- ing from fall term finals, and spending time with our families, theOffices oflnstructional Tech- nology and Computer Services, Dean Linda Cool, and the Audio Visual Sales and Services com- pal_1y of Albany woFked together to create Union's first Electric Presentation Classroom. in Hu- manities 014. The team also in- cluded Campus Operations; the Registrar's Office, and other dedi- cated professionals who sought to bring Union into the twenty-first century by bringing its technol- ogy to the fingertips of Union's professors. The multimedia center contains a laserdisc with interactive capa- bilities, a VCR that automatically zooms to perfectly fitthe screen, a MAC computer and an IBM computer {Gateway 250) with Internet capabiliti.es, a rell1ote- controlled 35mm color pr~jector, and a Visualiser capable of over- head and opaque projection. However, everything is com- pletely user-friendly, and chang- ing between mediums has been simplified to the pressing of a button .. Professors have not been given any special training to use it but state .that they are able to conduct their presentation with- out much difficulty. There are eight classes using the room now from various disciplines includ- ing psychology, political science, and mod~rn languages, as well as physics, math, and engineering. This type of classroom enables professors to present material in a manner that is not only sure to capture the interest and attention of their students, but one that is competitive with the technology found atneighboring schools like R.P.I., Skidmore, and Siena. By bringing the Internet into the classroom, students have the op- tion of connecHng to classes across the country and the world, op-ening up venues for idea -ex- change and discussion Professor Davide Cervone finds the com- pllters particularly useful when presenting labs to the class,. be- cause he is then able to go through the motions right in front of the class. The students are then able to follow along and to avoid get- ting caught up in the technical problems that working individu- ally in a traditional lab often in- volves. HWhen they know what tlley're supposed to see,\ he states, \they can go and do it\ lcleally; he believes that having students work at lab stations in groups while a professor simul- taneously demonstrates the task woul9 be the most advantageous situation. Cervone also fee Is that the computers offer demonstrat-ion co11tinued on page 3 INSIDE: Ca1npus New.~ ................................. _ .. 2 Nation.a1News ............................................. 9 Arts and Entertainment ......... : ... 12 Opinhms!EditQrialY ............ ~·····-· .. ... 6 Features .... ............................................. . 1 0 [ip(rrts . ...................................... 2 ()

Hull Searches for Rink Options by Jody Mousseau Staff Writer Union Colilege is faced with a dilemma us to \.\hat to do about th~ Jl'leriorat ing rln ~iC<ll ~tatu~ oL\chilk~ Ri nh PrL-~L·nth. \l'\- cr;1i cum pres~urs an; not function- ing in the rink, which would cost upwards of$2 million to replace. Achilles Rink in its current state is a questionable place to host a Division I hockey team. How- ever, moving the Union men's and women's ice hockey teams to an off-campus facility is also questionable. After the student body dis- persed for ·winter break in No- vember, President Hull was ap- proached by a developer and the Schenectady Youth Hockey Com mission and was asked if Union would be interested in the construction of a first class hockey facility. The $9 million facility with three sheets of ice \vould be located three blocks off campus near the Ramada Inn on a lot owned primarily by David P. Fusco. Achilles Rink presently accommodates several youth hockey teams, which provides sig1~ificant revenue for the main- tenance of Achilles Rink. Anum- ber of icc rinks throughout the :uc:l arc rlanning \)fl t•losing. \I h id1 tTl':ltl'S :l S r:ll't' d ilcmm :1 f( lf some of the local youth hockey programs who will soon be searching for new home rinks. The proposed plan would accom- modate both the Union College hockey programs and the local youth hockey programs. Presi- dent Hull is considering the of- fer, though no decisions have yet been made. On January 14, an article in the Daily Gazette stated that \Union and the youth hockey league would lease space.\ How- ever, Union has not determined whether they will accept the of- fer, or what costs the college would incur if they were to ac- cept the offer. If the Union hockey programs were to be moved off campus, the college would be left with an empty building. President Hull has stated that ifthe college does accept the offer to move into the Dean Cool Cuts tile Ribbon for the by Laurie KirscJmer!TC) llVSIJJE: ' ' Campus News ................................ 2 Oph1ions!EdiJorials ......................... 6 Features: Hasbro 's Hidden Evil page l 0 Sports: Crimson Fall to Dutchmen page 20 Winter hits the the U1tion Campus (Photo by Laurie Kirshner!TC) proposed facility, he would like to see Achilles Rink converted into student social space. Some proposals have included moving the bookstore and mailroom to the rink and perhaps building another physical fitness facility. How- ever, Hull also commented that at this stage, many ideas are being considered and no deals or plans have been negotiated. On Tuesday, January 7, Presi- dent Hull met with the men's and women's hockey teams and the Student Forum At the meeting with the men and vvomen hockey players, many concerns were voiced by the players regarding moving the hockey programs uff campus. Two concerns included the safety of all individuals walk- ing back and forth between the rink and campus and what the terms of the lease agreement would be ifthe college did decide to pursue a lease agreement In terms of salcty, President Hull assured the players that the safety of students would be tctken into consideration ifthe proposal \\ere to be carried out. If the proposal was carried out, a \ease agreement would be negotiated in I 5-10 year intervals. One main concern in relation to a potential lease agree- ment was the security of the hockey programs at Union Union hockey would n()t have its wntinued on page 4 It's Time to Reach Out and Touch a Button Aileen Q11igley Assistant News Editor In the six weeks over Winter Break, when most of us were cel- ebrating the holidays, recuperat- ing from fall term finals, and ~pending time \1 ith our fam il iL\~. the Offices ofl nstructional Tech- nology and Computer Services, Dean Linda Cool, and the Audio Visual Sales and Services com- pany of Albany \\orked togethl'r to create { 1 nion 's first Electric Presentation Classro0m in llu- manitics 014 The team also in- cluded Campus Operations, the Registrar's Office,and other dedi- cated profcssional5 who sought to bring Union into the twenty-first century hy bringing its technol- ogy to the fingertips of llnion 's professors The multimediacenter contains a 13scrdisc with interactive cnpa- hilitics, a VCR that automatically zooms to perfectly fit the screen, National News ......... . Features ........... ..... . a MAC computer and an IBM computer (Gatev,ay 250) with Internet capabilities, a remote- controlled 35mm color projector, and a Visual iser capable oft)\ er- hcad and opa4ue projection However, everything is com- pletely user-friendly, and chang- ing bd\\L\Cil lllt'llium:. h,t:. bcL'l1 simplified to the pressing of a button. Professors have nut bt:en given any special training to usc it but state that they Jre ;1bk to conduct their rrl'~cntation \\ ith- out mm:h diffkult) There arc eight classes using the room tHl\\ from various disciplines includ- ing psychology. political scien..:e, and modern languages. as wdl as physics, math. ;111d engineering This type of cbssroom enables professors to present material in a manner that is not only sure ttl capture the interest and attention of their students, hut one that is competitive with the technology found at neighboring schools like R.P .I., Skidmore, und Siena. By bringing the Internet into the classroom, students have the op- tion of connecting tn classes acrossthecountry and the \\orld, opening up venues for idt:a -ex- change and discussion Professor Dav1de Cervone finds the com- puters particularly usd'trl when l'fl'~,·nting L!l\\ ''' the ,· l.t\\ hl· cause he is then able to gn through the mMi0ns right in fmnt of ti1L' ..:lass The students Jre then ahk to folhl\\ along and to ~1\niJ get- ting (.lll);;ht ur in tilL' tl·,·hnil;11 rrnhkms that \\(1rking indi\ idu- all~ in ;1 traditi11n:ll br ntkn in- \ll] \l'S '\\\'ht'll the~ kn(l\1 \.\ h:tt they \re surposl'd \(1 SL'l' \ he states. \they c:m g(l :md dll it ·· Ideallv ht? hL·lie\'t'S that ha' ine - . ~ students \\Mk at lah o;tatiPns in grnurs \\hik a rr(lfl''-'\(1[ o;imul- t;ml't'llSI) dcmPnstr:th''-' tlw t:l'>k \\(lUIJ rl' thl' llH1o;( :llh :l11t:lfl'Pll\ situation Cernme alst' feeh that tlw ..: om r u tcrs t) !Te r d t'llll) n strati l' n continued on page 3 '\\\ ... ...... 9 Arts and Fntertainment .1:1 . ... ............ 10

Page 2 • 'illip:~ Qlpnrtn·.Oicusil:t • Jatiuary 16, 1997 . · · · Campus New·s I . ' , Campus Info Hey Seniors ... Forget about laundry this week~ Save your quarters for Quarter Night, tonight at Chet's Become a Gatekeeper Un·ion's Finest, Sbaping. The Futu.re of our School Pick'up an app.llcati·on at the Colle;g:e Ce·nter lnfo·Desk or at the Admissions Office. Today, January 18, is the last day for women to re~ster for lush. Sign up at- the Panhellenic Table in the College· Center. Don't miss the Excitement! Wells House Dating Game Tomorrow, Friday, January 17 at 8:00p.m. 118/97@5:37PM Absent members: Pellish, Mankad, GitTord, and Zandman Officer Reports: COHEN: Winter Affair 2/28/97 @Rarrtada Inn MALASPINA: 1/29/97 Crosstalk on Hockey Rink/So- cial Space. UNION COLLEGE., . CAMPUS SAFETY DEPA;RTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY UNDA Y JANUARY 5 1997 THROUGH SUNDAY JANUARY 12 1997 LOCATION Fox Area MONDAY JANUARY 6 1997; 12:30 AM Dav.idson Reamer Center UESDAY JANUARY 7 1997: 1:38 AM Alexander Lane Reamer Center · EDNESDAY JANUARY 8 1'997: l2:50'AM Rea:Jtu;:rC.enterarea Child Care Centf;r 11:45 PM West College HURSDAY JANUARY9 1997: . . !NCID\ENT PROPERTY DAMAGE: Studentdnwe . \ vehicle across lawn. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Room · smoke detectotdama;g¢d. Ufe Safety Violation Noti·ce filed. THEFT: Stud~nt's backpack stolen from unsecured are.a. VANDALISM: Group of students pulling traffic conttol signs out ofthe gro.J;u:id. I , Cond1,1ctCh·arges filed. · THEFT: Student'shackpack stolen from unsecured area. TH·EFT: Student's bike stole11 t'rom bike rack. Bike lock not secured. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Lubricant sprayed on student's musical equipment · stored in band practice room. SUBST ANCEABUSE: Two students became iH due to overconsumption of alcoholic beverage. Conduct Charges filed. 8:06AM Whipple Bridge area VANDALISM: Street lamp broken, struck by ice chucks. 7:39PM Davidson FRIDAY JA.NlJARY 10 1997: 1:12AM Bailey Hall SATURDAY JANUARY t 1 1997: 12:56 AM Richmond 11:30 AM Potter South .] I ;40 AM Raymond South :OOPM Fieldhouse 5:15PM Davidson 8:40PM Chapel area 1 I :35 PM Lot Behind Fieldhouse Hickok House LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Students removed room smoke detector to burn candles without setting otf alarm. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Fratrted print . fell!knocked from wall causing damage to theframe(glass. SUBSTANCE ABPSE: Student became ill due to overindulgence of alc<lholic bever age. Conduct Charges filed. . ' SAF.ETY HAZARD: Improper storage- blocked fire exit. SAFETY HAZARD: Improj}\erstorage- blocked fire exit. SAFETY HAZARD: Gas leak in heater. Equipment shutdown and locked out awaiting repair. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Tampering with room smoke detector. Life Safety Viol at ion Notice filed. SA·FETY HAZARD: Roadways blocked by cats bei11g p~rked for atte11dance at Chapel concert. THEFT/VANDALISM: Staffmember's car tcrcib(y entered cattsing damage to car door. Ite1ns in car stolen. 1\SSAULT/SUBSTANCEABUSE: Two subjeets tefLts~d to leave residence hall breatirtg a c0fifroi1tationwith a visitor. Visitor was assaulted. Subjects tled but· wereapprehended otfcampus. SPD i1otified tbr assistance. One subject, later ide11tified as a Uri ion student, ~vas arrested ' . for DWLCon~uctcharges Bled. FOX: l/8/97@7:30PM RUSH Convocati{)n in ~00 PM Chi Psi VANDALISI\1/tJNAUTHORlZED ENT~Y: Doors to'tw() stit.dent's rooms were forcibly opene~ caUsing damage to doors and lbcks. One ir~cidel'it occurred over winter break:the other incidet-it was within lastJi\ve hours. Room ~rv.as searched bttt 1tothit1g w~stakM. \'~ CC auditorium: ABESSI: Allocated $4,040 to NESBE Allocated $905 to En':'ironmental Action once a name is received Allocated$5,050 to Alpine Ski Club Allocated $700 to Gospel Ensemble Reinburst $1,925 to Phi Delta Theta for. lost money due to the Student Directory. Weekly meetings will be every Thursday 5:45-7:45 PM in the CC Room#409. Motion to adjourn@6:30PM. Think you can write ~better than this? The:n write for the Concordy! Call X6155 r ' ( J t ( r { ~ {

Campus News . · . · . · Wlp.' illtntcornicu5is •January 16, 1997 •Page 3 Are You in a Rush to Go Greek?· ' . by Stephanie Slobotkin New~ Editor As th~ wintertenn begins with new classes, different professors, and the cold, Schenectady weather, students also have the opportunity to start thinking about joining a Greek organization on campus. . While the process of rush is open to anyone who is interested in possibly becoming a member of a particular hpuse, it is also open to those who are merely looking to meet new people and to get a better understanding of Greek life at Union. The logistics of male rush dif- fer greatly from those of female rush and are thought of by many students as more relaxed and seemingly less superficial. Fresh• · man Meghanne McClendon said, \I was going to rush but it seems very structured .. During guys' msh they can go wherever they choose on whatever night. Ev- ery night,of girls rush seems more of a commitment.\ The various reasons peaple have for deciding to go through rush or not are often based on fal_se impressions or on heresy. ·The rules ofrush differformales and females, and sorority women must follow national rules, not Union rules. This year, w01nen's rush has a few changes from years past. Rush begins on Sunday, January 19, and lasts for four ni~hts, which is the same as last year. However, the amount of time al- lotted for each party has been · changed. The first 11ight used to be45 minutes but was reduced to half an hour. The se.cond night's time was chauged from one hour to a half an hour. The third. night's time was reduced from one hour to fortywfive minutes. The fourth night's time remains the same of an hour and fiftee!'l minutes. In addition, another rule of rush of which rushees are made aware is silence, which starts on Sunday and ends at Bid Dinner. This means that sisters and rush- ees.ar_e not aJlowed to communi- cate for non-academic or non- sport-related reasons. Also, nlsh- ees are allQwed in women's , Greek houses only during sched- ttled rush events. The process of rush is meant · to give rushees a chance to meet . the sisters from the various houses as well as a chance to meet other Fushees. \Rush was exciting be- cause I gotto·meetalotofpeople. The most overwhelming part was having to talk to so many people in such a short period of time. I also think rush is too fonnal even though it has improved over the past few years,\ saysjunior,Abra Dresher. Karena Cronin, .sophomore says, \You meet a lot of people quickly and bond with the people you rush with. Although 'girls' rush and gu:ys' rush are different, it's the system that makes girls' rush seem moreofadifficultpro- cess with deciding due to time limits. During rush you think a great deal about where you feel Computers ... continued from page 1 possibilities that transcend the tra- ditional blackboard and chalk. For example, he is able to create moving, three-dimensional graphs that would have been la- borious, inaccurate, or simply too difficult to do by hand. The abil- ity to offer students this level of demonstration \demonstrates a commitment to supporting teach- ing,\· according to Margaret Wadhera. Funding tor this classroom was made available from college funds by Dean Linda Cool. The total cost of the· equipment came to around $32,000, and Cool llas applied for a Melon Foundation Grant in hopes of sponsoring two more simiiar classrooms. Theftl- ture of this classroom should be safe for several years, states Au- dio Visual programmer Tim Anderson, because this system is equipped withlaptop capabilities. Therefore, not only can profes- sors complete presentations on their own computers beforehand, but guest speakers as well can come in with ready-made laptop demonstrations as well. Though this creates a concern for viruses in the system, the two computers are scanned at boot-up for v![uses, according to Mary' Parlett of Computer Services. Parlett can also check for probi'ems from her office as well. As one might i1nagine, demand fi-,I L ';\! C f }, :~ clc.~ >r :c T ;; '1'g l. J However, classes for next term will be decided by requests made at the Registrar' s office. Priority will not be on a first come, first · serve basis. Reaction of both stu- dents and faculty to the classroom has been positive. Says Amy DiBattista, '98, \The system makes pro(essors' notes easier to read, so students can concentrate better on what their professors are saying.\ With the construction of . the Olin building, hopefully all students will get the chance to let their fingers do the walking into -t~e future. Student Forum Freezes Funds of UBGLAD by Adrian Mac·Lcan Editor-in-Chief The first meeting ofthe Student Forum was held on January 8 of the new year. Amongst the issues covered\ in this brief meeting was a motion to freeze the funds to UBGLAD ( Union's Bisexual Gay Lesbian Advocates and De- fenclers) on the grounds of ob- scenity. A group of concerned students brought in the flyer composed by the ch.!b that read \Does Union Seem too Straight and Narrow?\ Below the head! ine was a picture showing a women's breasts and a 7:00 meeting in the Multicultural center the same day as the forum meeting. After the presentation of this poster, Kevin Abessi, Vice Presi- dent of Finance, motioned imme- diately to freeze the funding of UBGLAD. The forum made no attempt to contact any member of the club, nor did they send an of- ficer to the meeting that was in session during the Student Forum meeting. President Manuel Cunanan said, \I did not see the meeting time, but l read the head- ing at the top.\ UBGLAD responded to the lack ofeffort made on the evening of the motion, and the inability of the forum to notice the timing of their event. ~'Titties speak louder than words,\ Charis Moore, tresl1- man member ofUBGLAD,said. Since the passing ofthe motion, the student forum has made no attempt to contact the members of UBGLAD. Atpresstimetheonly documentation was an e-mail to Lee Rose: \Please take UBGLAD's Quicken account away from those members who have accesses to it until! say oth- erwise,\ VP of Finance Kevin Abessi wrote. At press time Rose had not removed the account be- cause he had forgotten. The grounds for freezing the account were that the picture was offensive to the forum and to the students because of the nudity. Included in the motion was a plan fora letter to be sent to Meredith MillerofUBGLAD,and a meet- illg time was to be set up to dis- cuss the issue. Since.theWednes- day evening motion, none of the conditions ofthe motion had been followed through. StBde11t gov- erninent has in its Constitution that they are allowed to control gr,ant, and take away tlmds. Accardi ng to Lee Rose, Direc- tor o fStudent Activities and Ad- visor to the Student Forum, the freezing of funds is a regular ac- tivity. lfclubs don't fulfi.JI obli- gatioilS or are not responsive to the Student Activities office or student government Rose used tl1e example of waivers, issued to clubs that have dange'tous acti vi- ties -could freeze funds over the failure to complete the necessary paperwork. This freezing of fLinds is their method of enforc- ing policy The poster that was displayed in the College Center did not fol- lovv traditional policies. Any poster not approved by Student Acti-vities can be removed, but accC>rding to Miller, sl1e saw a number ofposters up in the Col- lege Center without approval stamps, and they have not had their funds taken away. Rose claimed that since the poster was not approved, the meeting was an un(Jfficial meeting. \We have removed th.e option for-grQups to meet that have not fo 11 owed policy,·~ Rose said. This event was not the first time that UBGLAD and Student Fo- rum disagreed about the funds in their account. Last year a budget of$2,000 was approved and al- located to the. club, but when they logged on to their account, the club members had only received $1,0()0. They petitioned to re- open their budget, and the forLim allocated another $700, but not tile second thousand they were • originally promiseJ. After a se- ries of negotiations UBGLAD fi- nally received the full funds that W(IJI'e prom iscd to them Rose made reference to past experi- t:nces when there had been con- frontation, and he imagined that the forum might act without ask- ing members of the club their side ofthe story. ' \I think that a majority of the Student Forum has .discomfort with the club because it represents the small population of gay, les- bian, and bisexual members ofthe school. I feel there is an under! y- ing homophobia within the fo- rum,\ Meredith Miller said. Rose and Cunanan feel that the sexual preference!! represented in the club were notdirectly related to their funds being frozen, and in fact they felt as if they were supportive ofUBGLAD's e.fforts. Crmananwas unaware of any fo- rum members who are openJy homosexual or bisexual, and no · member of the forum is a mem- ber of UBG LAD. \The issue had nothing to do with homosexuality. The under- standing that we had before any vote was taken was that this would be not an issue of homo- sexuality or anything regarding that- strictly the offensiveness of the nudity involved in the poster,\ said Cunanan. \Funding was given to the club, so I would say obviously that is the antithesis ofhomophobic. A good amount of money was given to the club, and I do believe even additional funding was given to the Glub when requested,\ Rose said. When the forum was voting tlley were unaware where the pic- ture came tram or what the intent was from UBGLAD. The picture came from a lesbian Aids avvare- ness packet, but Cunanan con- firmed that they did not look into those details before voting. \Freezing the funds was yes, maybe very extreme, but still it was a measure that we took .. It was a failure of communication that' we did not get the meeting done very soon after we acted \ \I'm very happy to see this group. It's long overdue. and I think this group has a lot of guts to take the stand that they have taken, and that is obviously the spirit in wl1ich this poster \vas put up .BEAT THE COLD AT THE . RATHSKELLAR DURI-NG WINTER TtRM NOW SERVING HOT COFFEE HOT CHOCOLATE ASSORTED BAKERY PAS.TRIES r---~--~--~~--- -8.:30 AM to 10:00 AM Monday- Friday Bring a copy of this ad and Receive a free cup of coffee with any breakfast P.urchase

.. ;: ·~ •• - .. •t \' . C2mpus News· . . 'IDI1c <ITanw:rhiensis • January 16, 1997• Page 4 International Studies Rank Soars New Options for E!ome Ice by Stephanie Slobotkin News Editor Terrn A broad programs at Uniqn Co'Jilege have- become increas- tngl::y rnore popular over the past four years. According to a study by tl1e Institute for International Edu-cation (HE), which was pub- 1 isl1ed in the Dec. 6 edition of The ChrcJI1ic!e of Higher Education, Union College was ranked 11th of United States colleges in the nu1nber of students who studied .a& .I:!> ad during 1994-95. ... continuedfrompage one own home. It would have a first class facility that it would lease. Union-sponsored programs. Stu- Though President Hull assured dents at many other colleges and the student group that the Union universities participate in pro- hockey programs would not be grams that are run by other insti- displaced at any time from the tutions. ln Union College pro- facility, a concern ofthe players grams, students are accompanied was the lack of permanence in a by a Union faculty member, thus lease agreement and the intimi- having a familiar adult with to dation of possibly losiog use of whom they can turn with any the rink to a larger or semi~pro problems. program. In regards to a lease Carolyn Lavine, a junior who agreement at a possible first class spent fall term abroad in Italy; facillty off cam pus, President said, \Having a faculty advisor Hull commented, \If we build it, was really great. There are prob- then we will pay for the full cost !ems you mn into, especially in a of it. If we lease it, we would be foreign country, and having an responsible on the basis of a long adult to mediate any situation was term con- helpful and comforting.\ tract to an- pect,\ commented Will, «a.school with an arena on campus is more attracti.ve, more appeal i11g in tenns of walking o.ver to the arena and l~aving the facilities right there.\ Coach Moore reinforced the notion by staring thatit would . be considered a negative aspect, from the recruiter's perspective, if the hockey facility were off campus. Several additioria:l hockey play- ers presented comments regard- ing the proposal. Hana Yam ash ita, president of the women's ice l1ockey dub, com- mented, \I think it matters a lot more to be skating at Union Col- lege, at Unfon College's hockey rink. This rink means so much to to the games and I try to .get to as many as I can. I likeourrink and the convenience ofwhere the rink is, but do I think it is possible to build another one that would be equally as gpod or better? ·Sure. I think that possibility exists.\ Pre.sident Hull explained the situ(:1.tion. \After students left in November, I was told that the hockey rink required between $2- $2.5 million in funds to .make it work the way it shodld. work, which means rep'! acing the com- pressors that don't work and cleaning up the lobby. $2.5 mil- liol1 tbr a facility that is already named is very difficultto raise l knew from my work with Schenectady 2000 that there was tatk about Union had 241 students- about 12 percent of the enroll- rnen t-studied abroad during the l'/94-95 academic year, (the pe- ri()d of the study by the liE). The College sent 280 of its students- 14 percent--on tenns abroaddur- illg the 1995-96 year, according to Vv':illiam Thomas, director of i11ternational programs. Emily Snyder, a junior who nual pay- s.pent fall term abroad in France ments.\ He said, \ourtaculty advisor became did, how- our teacher, mother, helper,· and ever, assure friend. We even took him out the student with us at night\ group that Presently the college offers the hockey resident-study terms abroad in programs at \a school with. an arena on campus is more attractive, more appealing in terms of walking over to the arena and having the facilities right there.\ the youth hockey or- ganizations wanting to build a sheet or two sheets of ice, and the proposed Other colleges that ranked ab()ve Union were St. Olafs Col- 'lege~ with the top rank of452 stu- de11ts, Colgate was second with 32 5, and Colby was third with 3{t) l. Bates College ranked tenth ahead of Union, with 258 stu- dellts. The liE only ranked insti- tl.Itions which grant bachelor de- grees. The number of students at Union who study overseas by the ti1ne they graduate amounts to ITime than half of the student b0<iy-S6 percent Since l C)C)4, tl1epcrcentage of Union students wl'lo study abroad has grown a.botit 45 percent. According to Tho{)lllas. a large part of the per- centage increase was due to the abun·dance of additions and offer- ings to both new and old pro- gran'ls Also, since 1994 Unimi has.added eight term ahroad pro- grants. Nearly all Union students who study ahroad do <>o through Brazi), China, England, France, Union would not be jeopardized Israel, Italy, Kenya, Japan, Costa by the deal, if one were to becon- Rica. Greece, Spain, Mexico, tracted. Anothere0ncem was the Barbados, Austria, and Gennany. maintenance of student atten- ln additio11, the college offers ex- dance at home garries, which may change programs in Germany, decline if the Union hockey rink Japan, Switzerland, Bulgaria, the is moved otT' campus. A few in- Czech Republic, Korea, Poland, divlduals 011 th~ men's and Puerto Rico, Barbados, and India. wmnen, s teams commented that An ace om panying article in if it was a matter of cost, Ui1ion The ('hronicle of Higher Educa- should l0ok into sponsorship. lion reported that the 84,400 Many colleges and universities United States students who stud- allow sponsors to display their icd abroad in 1994-95 represented·. names on the white boards sur- a I 0 6 percent increase over the , rounding the ice. Allison Pow- previous year. The total was al- ers, a sophomore on the women's most twice that of nine years ear- hockey team, stated, 'T d rather lier he skating with colored boards Union's goal is to encourage here than with white boards more students to go ahroad. Their somewhere else.\ motive is not merely to rank StanMoore,headcoachforthe higher in an international study, men's hockey team, stated, hut to ensure that students getthe \There are certainly pluses and most out oftheir college experi- minuses to renovating an old fa- ences, both locally and world- cility as opposing to building a wide> new facility I am not [ruling out] The Dating Game, Wells House Style the possibility of an off campus facility, but I like where we are. I like being on campus.\ Andrew Will, captain ofthe men's hockey team, offered a similar perspec- tive. His main concerns rested with the safety ofthe locatiori for all members ofthe Union Com- munity, availability of ice time tor players and the entire student body, and the recnliting strength of the men.'s hockey program be- ing affected by an off-campus locatiorl. '\From a recruiting as- Aileen Quigley Assistant News Editor bachelors wil i answer the ques-· tions ofo11e very lucky lady, and the male co11testant will choose between three bachelorettes. Af- · ter these two rounds, the tina! two couples will be awarded $25 gift certificates to Babes restaurant. • ~ 1ne and who I am at Union Col- legeandwhat l'vedone. I would not I ike to see it turned inte a stu- dent center and the Union College hockey rink be three blocks off campus. The hockey rink is .so much a part of Union, so much a part of me. I think that the hockey rink right now is already a student social center.\ Laura Felton, a member of the women's ice hockey team, stqted, '\I think that if President Hull is so concerned about keeping .traditions on cam· pus, I would say that the rink is a pretty big one. We have a strong . hockey program. [ think he should consider sponsorship be- fore he should consider going off campus.\ Ariel Lieberman, se- nior class vice president offered a slightly different view. \!that Union College is niuch to small to accommodate the capacity of students that wt:; have right now, and that hy extending part of our campus into the community, we can improve relations between residents of Schenectady and Union College students.\ Dean Alford was present at the meeting. with the men's and women's hockey teams. In a later · meeting, he commented, \I want to keep an open mind about these things. My gut reaction is tore- sist change, but I know that often change can be an improveme.nt. I I ike the women's and men's hockey programs. I enjoy going site is down by the Ramada. I wanted to ex- plore the possibility of working with youth hockey to see if one might be able to come up with a s0lution that made soine sense. The rei:l.soning was simple. First, because it is a difficult fund rais- ing job to raise money for a facil- ity that is already named, and sec- ondly because we have significant income that comes from the rental space to youth hockey.\ Presi- dent Hull is concerned with main- taining revenues gained from youth hockey programs and cre- ating additional' stt,.ident social space. No decisions have been made and no deals have been con- tracted, regardless of a comment in the Daily Gazette on January 14 in which an anonymous party stated, \It's by 110 means a done deaL But it's as close as being done as I could see.\ President Hull commented, \We are abmtt as far from the deal as anything I've been involved in. As far as I'm concerned, we're still in the discussion stages.\ The future of Achilles Rink is presentiy being considered. SevQ era! proposals are on the table, and no final negotiations have been made. President Hull has assured everything is still in the talking stage. Whatwilllie ahead for the Achilles Rink, the Dutch- men hockey teams, and the Union College community has yet to be detennined. Wells House, Union's commu- nityservice theme house, invites all students and facult-y to attend its version of The Dating Game this Friday, January 17th, at 8:00 pnL RefreSI'fments will be served before and after the couples chCJose each other. A chaperone and transportation will be provided if needed. All students are welcome to be part of the audience and to take this opportunity to explore one of Union's alternative housing op- tions. Wells House residents will be available and will be happy to answer any questions about the house and it~ community service involvement, social functions, and role as part of the Union community. THE. DATING GAME The actual format will follow that {)f the originai television sbo-w?and applications hav~ been call ected to select the contestants. TV!() hosts will serve as masters of ceremonies for the evening's festivities. With just a curtain to separate them, the three eligible Happy New Year! Welcome Back! We missed you during break! Really! ... the Admissions Staff s We've .got it at Wella. , FREE FOOD. FREE DATES I , . FREE, FUN FRIDAY Spm

W:I1c <!Ioncoroicnsis • January 16, 1997 • Page 5 . · · . Campus Ne-ws A Weekend Alternative:· Comedy Laff-Off Let Your Fingers Do the Walking ... by Anjali Balasingham Staj[Writer Fraternity parties aren't the only things happening on Saturday nights anymore. In an effort to provide Union students with so- cial a'lternatives, Student Activities has started organizing events to be held every Saturday night in Old Chapel at 9 p.m. On January 11, Unionhosted two comedians in a \Comedy Laff-Off,\ the first eventof this series. Linda Herska:vic, previously seeri on his house after curfew. \As it gets later, the toilet gets louder ... and smaller.\ Brandt proceeded to act out the familiar stealthy movements of a guilty high~ schooler. \I think Tai Chi must have been invented b-y a drunk sixteen year-old sneak- ing into a pagoda,\ he joked. Brandt im- pressed the crowd with his linguistic per- form.ances in Gennan and Russian, as well as with a rendition of his pre-pubescent Alvin the Chipmunk voice. Both Herskavic and Brandt interacted freely with a willing audience. In fact, when Brandt asked what Union students do for fun, the audience re- sponded with a unanimous, \Drink.\ In gen- eral, Brandt was the preferred per- former. \[Herskavic] -was just random, maybe she could have been more consistent. [Brandt] was re~. ally much fun- .. nier ... :~ com- mented Casey Robins. The New Schaeffer Library by Aileen Quigley Asst News Editor \Oh the times, they are a-changin' ... \ When Bob Dylan sang those words, he probably had no idea Union College would seem to take them to heart about twet1ty- five years later. Sigris of ground-breaking are every-where, and Schaeffer Library is finally getting its proverbial turn at bat. Starting in mid-January, materials for Phase I ofthe demolition ofthe 1974 \New Addition\ began to arrive. The weeks to follow, between mid-February and mid- March, entail new piles to be driven ''to depths of25 feet, an operation that is ex- pected to create noise audible on most parts of campus and perhaps in nearby neigh- borhoods,\ according to the Chronicle, Vol. 39. including inter-! ibrary loan, circulation p<ll icies, and reserve materials are still available in the original building. Tll()ugh the study capacity has been re- d 1:1ced to nearly half, the I i brary staff has tried to maintain business as usual. The homs of operation have remained the same, which will include extended hours during 1nid-tenn and finals weeks. Two extra staff Inembers have been employed to work 20 hours per week to facilitate research and 1naterial retrieval. Other accommodations that have already taken place include the shifting of about hal fofthe library's 500,000 volumes to off-campus storage at Mullen Storage and Moving. \A prompt and regular re- trieval· system\ has been created to ensure that books will be available \ ... usually within a day of the request ... ,\ according toSheviak. HBO's \Comedy Central\ and at various college and universities appeared first. Herskavic, with a straightforward attitude, focused her material on the universal tribulations of dealing with people on an ev- eryday basis. Re-. ferringto humor- ous experiences with overzealous gamblers in At- lantic City, smok- ers in New York All in all, the Comedy Laff-Off(photo by Laurel Ruma/TC) audience rated the experience a positive one. \They en- tertained us well,\ said Puja Jvlahindra. \I think the idea of having them was a good one. It was nice to start the evening off with some laughs, before going anywhere else.\ Some appreciated the evening as a social alternative. \It's a different kind of thing to do; it's good to filltime,\ said Meghanne McClendon. In summing up the evening, . Kelly McNamara said, \I had a good time, and I'd go again. I thought a lot of people liked it\ Hours ofpeak construction will be re- stricted to 7:QO a.m. and 3:30p.m. because it is during these off-peak time when most students are in class, states acting library director Jean Sheviak. She adds that the articles remaining in the library are mainly post-! 982, since it is these materials that are most frequently used. Although daily retrieval is assured in Inost cases, students, staff and faculty are uged to plan ahead \as much as possible.\ Since students working on their theses Inust plan their work relatively far in ad- ve:mce, Sheviak feels that their work shouldn't be seriously complicated by the con stmction. subway platfo~ns, and maniacal drivers in Los Angeles,Herska-vic gave comical char- acterizations of people from all over. Hav- ing grown up in the Bronx, she also joked about her abnormal adolescence. \When we played house, tl}ey would always make me the arsonist. We wouldn't play hopscotch, we drank scotch,\ she qu,ippeq. ''Now they've got tours of the Bronx, where they take you to see the first crack house.\ Jonathan Brand~ previously a contribut- ing writer to Bill Maher's \Politically In- correct\ follo~ed Herskavic. Brandt's material touched closerto home, as he com- mented on his experiences with drinking, coJiege life, and employment. He inspired much empathy from the audience when recounting his teenage tale o~sneaking into Student Activities intends to hold a va- riety of events on Saturdays, which will not be limited to comedy. Planned activi- ties include a New York style club scene, a rave, a coffeehouse, and a movie.mara- thon. Aside from the redistribution of the I ibrary' s resources, the interior layout has been altered to accommodate the impend- ing construction. To keep students in- formed on moved materials, the Schaeffer Library web site (accessible througll Union's home page) is updated daily and a \Today's Specials\ board is located at the building entry. All library operations f'hase I I, \the renovation of the original 1961 building,\ will cost $18.25 million and the projected date of completion is Fa11 1998. The Pike Company has been con- tracted for the project, and the architect is J>erry Dean Rogers ofBoston. F\ or tl1e next 18 months tl1e I ibrary will be undergoing some dramatic changes, but haven't we waited long enough? COME INTO MOJO PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVIGSI IChanactady 1041 State Street 882·5778 ·-- ------- -~ --~- -- -- ----· 150% OFF! . 83.¢ 84.99 OFF: .I P~OCESSING : REPRINTS • Bx1 o • CLUB I I R.ec:eave SO% oft' the regular I . . . . I Limit 3 Bxl 0 eulargements; ~ Receive SS .00 off when I 1 price of processing and L~nut 20 standard ••zc I From your 3~mm color I you purchase a club I 1 priDtiDg color priDt fihn. I repnnts. From y~ur JSmm I negative. membership! Must present I I color negative. l~o\lp,.o to -c·tMve $5.00 off. I ·• Limit l ~lis. $aandard size prints only. Cu.stom croppinc may be available at Ill -.. .., ·~ ..,. .. . . ·I I addat1onal dtUJC Not vabd witb other I I I Noc valid with Gtbcr coupons or extra set . Noe valid with ~r coupons or otl'e!\$ · Cl b lill\it Clbe _., twrson. Not valid with --.·- · ... c• ~.&..members receive I Cl·.... lbe . f1V!U I coupons or CXI~ Sd promotaons. u I - r- ........ .....,. ... _ •uu . ~.~v me~n rec:eiYe · v .,. coupon pnce . -L- 1 ,.,.,._ · .... a.- C:\\'•N'llns or offers. I I I 0% coupoa price. mcu..,.;rs I'CCCIYC \rt• coupon pncc. . .,.. ... , ---- --lllfi/JIII I ,.. ,. . . . I .,. ~ . I. .,. ,. • 1 I MOTOPHOTO. I MOTOPHOTO,. I MOTOI'HOTt'S 1· MOTOPHOTD . ----------------.--------- .. ---------- ---·

·oP/ED ·, · ffiltt' <.!Ilntcod'lit'usi~ ·January 16, 1997 ·Page 6 · EDITORIAL Student Forum: Abreast of tbe Times A lack of diversity at Union has often been a problem, so we were delighted to see the daring poster UBGLAD posted in the college center. The poster used a picture that was taken from a pamphlet designed to promote AIDS awareness among lesbians. It·seems our friends the censors at the Student Forum found the nudity contained in this poster too shocking to be displayed next to the countless other seful and relevant posters hung daily in the ~ollege center. It seems our elected representatives have taken it upon themselves to freeze UBGLAD,'s funding. But don't stop reading here, this is here things get interesting. Not only did the Forum act swiftly and ithout any real infomJation about the poster, it seems the execution of their little plan has been nothing less than a debacle. According to our organized Student Forum pals, UBGLAD made the egregious error of not getting their poster approved by the thought . police up at Student Forum. Needless to say, a quick perusal of other posters in the college center turned up several other \unautho- rized\ yet funded posters. Granted, though, none ofthem contained anything as utterly horrifYing as two inches of black and white les- bian breast. So it seems the Student Forum is ·coming down on UBGLAD for, among other things. failing to follow procedures rou- · tinely ignored by everyone. A very interesting brand ofhypocrisy seems to be at work here. After a quick talk with the President of the Student Forum, it ap- pears that Student Forum isn't following its own procedures either. Perhaps we should freeze their funding too. The stated purpose of the funding freeze was tQ get UBGLAD's attention and to discuss with them the '~problems\ with the poster. One would thus assume· . that someone from Student Forum would. by now have contacted someone in UBGLAD to discuss this issue formally. As of press time, Student Forum, at least according to the Preside.nt, can offer no assurance that a letter has been sent to UBG LAD. Moreover, and somewhat comically, the funding freeze hasn't even· taken place because St~dent Forum's advisor, Lee Rose, hadn'tltad time to make the freeze as. of our meeting with him this·;~~rning. It seems t~ us that at a school with such 'a lack ot' diversity and with such .a homophobic culture the Student Forum should have handled this obviQ.llSiy sensitive situation in an organized and thought- ful manner. lnstead it s,eems they ~ea,ched a .~eci~i9n swiftly ,and· h;md~d.dpwJ;t a_pu\\ishm~\'\t \'ihi~h ~tl].p~nt~ H> qe fflc~o ,c~nsor~~li{l. The ~tudent Fon.Jm. acted 1 withqut knowi11gJha.t the picture came frpm an _educational sourct(_and also without ·contacting a represen- tativr;:.ftom UBGLAD first. At ,pres~ tiro.e it seen~s th~t the folks.~t Stud<:fnt. Forum do not even. know when they will he having their next meeting so they can try to ~traighten. thiswhoie. me~~·out.c. Jesse Helms would be proud of our StLJd~nt Fomm ~s censorship prowess. Essentially, they handeddown draconian punishment with little information and less consideration for the members o UBGLAD.- '· ·: The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 18 77 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper ' Adriaii MacLean, Antt.ony C. LaVec~hht, EDITORS-IN-CHIEF Da\Vid Pinkowitz. Diana Sedita l!.XECU17Vli JWI7VRS Conor McKenzie MANAGING IWI1VR · Stephanie Slpbotkin · NRWS EDITOR · Aileen Quigley A,',',..'NSTANT NEW:.<; HD11VR Larry Paska ARTS& FY7TT?T1f.\',\ tf'\T rnnnn . J ,aurit- Kirsrh\rr PHOTO FJ>lTOR Jonathan Gasthalter Chris Leone Sl'ORIS U.JJJOJ(.S -- Suzanne Dougherty NA110NIAJ, NHWS JW/1VR ; :~r Chris Leone JAYOl!TKD!TOR Tatiana· Cogevina .. :· Andy Fradkin . :· .. tY.)MP.lf1'Hl? MANAGER Jared Richman JWJTOR/Aii>. CAR100NIST Scott Scullion i·A< l/Li Y AJJV/SOR Raquell\lilman Peter Sorensen n··:tnrnrs rnnrms Amy DiBattista Jennifer Pelose (VPY AJJIJVR,'\' l'f{(}f'()(j/lAI'lfFRS Rick Ledercm-, Michelle Brick, 1\luia Guinle, Laurl'l Ruma 1 ... STAFF .Josh Adams, Ka ra Christian, .Jamie \handler, Shana Dangelo, Rrandon 0('det, Anjali Halasin~ham, Keirn Barr, Gabm•Ua Dory,.Jeff Drm:ha, .Jason F:vetett, Peter Farnum, Nalini Gupta, F.rika Mancini, Bhavani Meduri.,.Jody Mousseau, Michelle Neier, Susan Perry, Frank Rossi, Matt Sandler, Akin SawyyPr, Aaron Sicotte, Michelle Tham, Rawson Thurber, Michelle Vanderloon Opinions THI~ I$1JE Stt~ GAl£ OF 5lrrJ<. Toi>A~, AND ~:SA f,..JtJ6 · ouT 11f~ pooft. wHAT'S Clt\&~Gr rr, POC-tol<. ? . . APfA((E~Tt.Y ·TJE·HOct<ey • 1'EM'\ Ht+.S A WINtJtl\16- ~e~D Uf ... @union.good .. communication? Er.ilia Mancini StafJWriter · Criticitrng e-mail is perhaps: not the In()st popular thing to do on a c'61lege campus, or any- where, for that matter. With professers sending homework assig11men1s to students, and or- garli~atiO.nsgetting info to parti~i­ parits ins.tantaneousiy, our lives, withotJt a dcubt, are becoming more !'mductive. Thus, I do riot mea11t() criticize all that e-mail accomplisnes,just what it seerns to undo. Dt>esn \t arnybody like real mail anymo:re'?lrnean tangible, hand- writtenJnail in envelopes and on stati()nery. L, myself, atn an avid letter wr-iter, and am finding that e-mail is a.bsolutely ruining the entire lett()rsending and recieving tradition. I take the time to com- pose a friendly letter, and in tum, recieve an unexciting, scatter- brained response on my com- puter. The ro-.1n:antic aesthetic in ine believes tha~t ]·etters are meant to be savore-d~ reread, touched, crumpled, and perhaps, if they hold S<lJ'IJe -dirty little secret, bumed. Handwritten, personal letters ca.1t reveal character and truth ab()ut the person writing. Envelopesthat have been handled by peopi e far away, that have been stamped AIR MAIL, that wear a postage stamp, that visu- ally spread culture -· these are the messages that impress me. I used to have a pen pat· in Japan. She sentthe most fascinating! et- ters dn rice paper, a waxy transluscent material, often inge- niously folded in the tradition of origami. Penpals from France and Italy, who \vere equally spe- . cial, serit me.s'sages in those tl iins:Y air tnail eiwelopes With the' red and blue '~triped edges and stamps showing' fa(:es of their leaders and celebrities. Though an ordinary_ ritual, opening a letter far beats' logging in and clicking a cold mouse but~ ton. Imagine Cyrano,. ge Bergerac's ,lover checking here- mail to see if her admirer had written. Not quite the same, huh? Something is lost with computer communications, be it tradition, warmth, beauty or creativity {not to mention sealing wax-. I'm enamored by the classic red kind that once sealed the treatises and Jove letters of European kings and queens long ago). Even as I write this article, I stare into a cold, grey computer screen. My eyes feel fatigue, and who knows what types of harmful. rays are blasting into my head! This is precisely why I don't enjoy recieving a letter via e-mail. I end up scanning the message annoyed at the u11exciting task of reading from a com pt,tter screen .. The haphazard way in which e- mail messages are ·written also bothers me. · Spelling and gramatical erlors Stick out obtru- sively due to the hassle it isto go back and delete and correct while writing a message on e-mail. Therefore. with an e-mafl rnes.: sage, you are most likely getting a rough draft of the message. I usually write one or tWo draftS whtm taking the drnetoconipose a letter to a friend in order to up- hold standards~ the experience thus being a writing workout, as well as a friendly gesture. But, no. With e-mail one gets -unappealing, poor ... quality mes\' sages that seem to get worse and worse with every message as writing standards become more and more lax. It's all a part of the the. dumbing down process of younger generations. Poor gram- mar and unimagjnative writing are the products. of routinely ex- changing thoughts over e-mail. Furthermore, our appreciation of simple things is di1nis:hing. You,ve got to h,ave the fax Iilo- dem and all the fancy program stuffto make same sort of an im- pression. l' d !le. impressed with aJamesDean postage stamp and maybe the sight of some attrac- tive penmanship. Heck, I'd en- joy something, anythingi being in my mailbox for once. P.S. That is, my College Cen- ter mailbox ...

()P/~J) ...-.. :, · ._· .-: ·. ~ ·. . .·. . - , . ·. ·_ . - . ' : . · WI.te <!Ionc~r:b'tenlids • January 16, 1997 · l)a e.6 EDITORIAL Student Forum: Abreast of the Times A lack of diversity at Union has often been a problem, so we vvoere delighted to see the daring poster UBGLAD posted in the college center. The poster used a picture that was taken from a pamphlet designed to promote AIDS awareness amomg lesbians. It seems our friends the censors at the Student Forum found the nudity contained in this poster too shocking to be displayed next to the countless other useful and relevant posters hung daily in the college center. It seems our elected representatives have taken it upon themselves to freeze UBGLAD's funding. But don't stop reading here, this is where things get interesting. Not only did the Forum act swiftly <1nd without any real information about the poster, it seems the execution of their little plan has been nothing less than a debacle. According to our organized Student Forum pals, UBGLADmade the egregious error of not getting their poster approved by the thougllt police up at Student Forum. Needless to say, a quick perusal of other posters in the college center turned up several other «unautho- rized\ yet funded posters. Granted, though, none ofthem contai11ed anything as utterly horrifying as two inches of black and white les- bian breast. So it seems the Student Forum is coming down on UBGLAD for, amongotherthings,failing to follow procedures rou- tinely ignored by everyone. A very interesting brand of hypocrisy seems to be at work here. After a quick talk with the President of the Student Forum, it ap- pears that Student Forum isn't following its own procedures either. Perhaps we should freeze their funding too. The stated purpose of the funding freeze was to get UBGLAD's attention and to discuss with them the \problems\ with the poster. One would thus asst1rnc that someone from Student Forum would by now have contacted someone in UBGLAD to discuss this issue formally. As ofpress time, Student Forum, at least according to the President, can offer no assurance that a letter has been sent to UBGLAD. Moreover., and somewhat comically, the funding freeze hasn't even taken phue because Student Forum's advisor, Lee Rose, hadn't had time to 1nake the freeze as of our meeting with him this morning. It seems to us that at a school with such a lack of diversity and with such a homophobic culture the Student Forum should have handled this obviqusly sensitive situation in an organized and thoLtgllt- ful manner. Instead it seems they reached a decision swiftly and handed down a punishment which amounts ,to de facto censorship. The Student Forum acted without knowing that the picture came from an educational source and also without contacting a repre.sc:n- · tative from UBGLAD first. At press time it seems that the folks at Student Forum do not even know when they will be having their next meeting so they can try to straighten this whole mess out. Jesse Helms would be proud of our Student Forum's censorsl1ip prowess Essentially, they handed down draconian punishment...vitl1 little information and less consideration for the members of UBGLAD. Tlle Student Newspaper of Union College Since 18 77 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Adrian MacLean, Anthony C. LaVecchia, EDITORS-IN-CHIEF David Pinkowitz Dia11a Sedita !Xl£ll17Vh' UJflVR.'l' Conor McKenzie MANAGING l:Dl70R Stephanie Slobotkin Nf~·ws FJ>JTOR Aileen Qui~ley AS.')/STANT NJ:'W.<..,' J:Dln JR LarrJ l'aska :flU:\ & t··.vu:R'! :-t/Y\ 1/:Sr 1:1 mr m I ,aurir Kirschner !'If() IYJ f:'J)f1rJR ,Jonathan (;asthalter Chris Leone Sl'l Jf(JS U)JJOH.'l' Suzanne Dougherty NA T!ON!A/, NHW.\' J~J)f'l()/1 Chris Leone U YOl IT JJ>J10N Tatiana Cogevina Andy FnuJk,in COJ\1/'( JTU? MANA( iER Jared Ricllman Fl Jfll J/?JAL. ( 'AR7< )( J!Vl'-tT Scott Sculli11n JA( VUY Am·J.')()JI Raquel Milman Peter Sore11sen !·FAn 'IU.s rnnf H<s 1\my DiBattista .Jennifer Pelose <'Ol'Y hlJ!J()f(.S J'Jf(J!IJ<iR.I/'1/U?S Rick Lederer, :\lichclle Brick, :\laria (;uillle, Laurel Ruma S'f>tFF .Josh Adams, Kara Christian, .Jamie Chandler, Shana Dangel(), Brandon Derlet, Anjali Ralasin~ham, Keirn Barr, Gabriella Dory,Jeff Druzha, Jason Everett, Peter Farnum, Nalini Gupta, Erika Mancini, Bhavani Meduri, .Jody Mousseau, Michelle Neier, Susan Perry, Frank Rossi. Matt Sandler, Akin Sawyyer, Aaron Sicotte, Michelle Tham, Raws«ml'hurber, Michelle Vanderloon Opinions TH17 IS 1JE SHIGA~ OF 5Jf»< lai>A~, AN';D ~:SA ~~IV~ ou>T 111e pooR. wtiAT'S CINSIJ.J&- rr, PoC-roR.? APPARE'JJTLY THE HOCkEY 'fEA/V\ HA-S A WINtJti')(( ~€:CORD llf - .. @union.good.communication? Erika Mancini Staff Writer Criticizing e-mail is perhaps not the most popular thing to do on a college campus, or any- where. for that matter With professers sending homework assignments to students, and or- ganizations getting info to partici- pants instantaneously, our lives, without a doubt, are becoming more productive. Thus, I do not mean to criticize all that e-mail accomplishes,just what it seems to undo. Doesn't anybody I ike real mail anymore? I mean tangible, hand- written mail in envelopes and on stationery. L mysel( am an avid letter writer, and am finding that e-mail is absolutely ruining the entire letter sending and recieving tradition. I take the time to com- pose a friendly letter, and in tum. recieve an unexciting, scatter- brained response on my com- puter. The romantic aesthetic in me believes that letters are meant to be savored, reread, touched, crumpled, and perhaps, if they hold some dirty little secreL burned. Handwritten, personal letters can reveal character and truth about the person writing. Envelopes that have been handled by people far away, that have been stamped AIR MAIL. that wear a postage stamp, that visu- ally spread culture - these are the messages that impress me. I Lised to have a penpal in Japan. She sent the most fascinating let- ters on rice paper, a waxy transluscent material, often inge- lliously folded in the tradition of origami. Penpals from France and Italy, who were equally spe- cial, sent messages in those ll irnsy air mail en vel opes with the red and blue striped edges and stamps showing faces of their leaders and celebrities. Though an ordinary ritual, opening a letter far beats logging in and c1 icking a cold mouse but- ton. Imagine Cyrano de Bergerac' s lover checking here- lnail to see if her admirer had written. Not quite tile same, huh? Something is lost with computer communications, be it tradition, warmth, beauty or creativity (not to mention sealing wax - I'm enamored by the classic red kind that once sealed the treatises and love letters of European kings and queens long ago). Even as I \vrite this article, I stare into a cold, grey computer screen My eyes feel fatigue, a11d who knows what types of harmful rays are blasting into my head! This is precisely why I don't enjoy recievinga letterviae~mail I end up scanning the message annoyed at the unexciting task of reading from a computer screen. The haphazard way in which e- mail messages are written also bothers me. Spelling and gramatical errors stick out obtru- sively due to the hassle it is to go back and delete and correct while writing a message on e-mail. Therefore, with an e-mail mes- sage, you are most likely getting a rough draft of the message. I usually write one or two drafts when taking the time to compose a letter to a friend in order to up- hold standards-the experience thus being a writing workout, as well as a friendly gesture. But, no. With e-mail one gets unappealing, poor-quality mes- sages that seem to get worse and worse with every message as writing standards become more and more lax. It's all a part of the the dumbing down process of younger generations. Poor gram- mar and unimaginative writing are the products of routinely ex- changing thoughts over e-maiL Furthermore. our appreciation of simple things is dimishing. You've got to have the fax mo- dem and all the fancy program stuff to make some sort of an im- pression. I'd be impressed with a James Dean postage stamp and maybe the sight of some attrac- tive penmanship. Heck, I'd en- joy something, anything, being in my mailbox for once P S That is, my College Cen- ter mailbox .. i ' ( t ( ( ~ J· s ' r c s f t s r c

Page 7 -· January 16, 1997 · 'Urlp? .illnncor.Oicnsis · . . · · OP!-ED . . ~ Opinion Student Forum Resists Plan ·to Benefit Coinmunity Home Sweet Home Dear Editor, As amemberofthe Student Fo~ nun, I had thepleasureofattend:.. ing a special meeting with Presi- dent Hull last Monday. During that meeting, Iwas.surprised with what I heard and saw from many of the representatives of our stu~ de11tbody. In aschool that needs change, many ofthe members of theStuderit Forum refused to ac- knowledge the benefit of the pro- posal offered. When I first listened to the idea ofmoving Union'shome ice off campus; I was as skeptical as ev- erybody else. Our Division I hockey team is something that students, faculty, and alumni are very proud of, and would all love to keep their games on our be- loved campus. The majority of the student forum fought for this right, but possibly without the proper consideration of a more important issue: I think we all agree that the area surrounding our campus, esp.ecially on the Seward street side, is not a desir- able place for any kind of student interaction with the Schenectady eOJnmunity .. _Qf col.lrse, the_ school cannot take responsibility for the economic and social sta- tus of the city, but I feel if given the opportunity .to make a sub- stantial change, Union should se- riOl~sly consider the action, in this case the construction of a brand Robert Cohen Contributing Writer We all agree that there are tnany things wreng in the world. ··I also believe, that ·everyone new skating fad! ity one or two would agree that there are many blocks off campus. things wrong with the little world The new facility would provide of Union in which we live. How- that parfoftown with a profitable ever, it seelhs to me that e¥ery- reason to t1.se basic capitalist ide- one is fairly happy I iving with als to spur reformation and/or these things. The Administration ren;ovation. With the constant more often then not, takes~the mass ofstudentsw~lking to and opinion that there is nothing from the rink, as well as many wrong. with the campus, well at youth hockey programs using the · least nothing too serious. Stu- facilities, new bt!Sinesses would dents for tl~e most part, would do have a chance to lure custorners something to change something with probable success. Obviously they fee1 is wrong. However, the the change would not go without avenues that must be followed to risk, but how long will our school · accomplish \a cha11ge\are widely go on fixing the interior of our unknown, if ever used. The pro- catnpus, while letting the exterior fessors, and I hate to put this so diminish further. bluntly, whether they care ornot, Another one of U.Rion's prob- would probably clo nothing to !ems which has been addressed in change Hfe for the students, ex- the :forum consistently is the lack cept get riq of fraternities. They of social space on campus, and do not live here, if they get sick this may be improved as well. ofit, they go home. Each week, I President Hull gave the im pres~ hope to tackle an issue that is per- sion that if the college were -to tinent to the life of the student proceed with this idea,.Achilles here, things I feel must be Rink would be Ltsed for social . changed in order to not only to ·'space. I'rn not trying to convince make life here better ,bnt increase everybody thatthis the answer to the communication between the all our probfems, but I feel .it students and the Admjnistration. weuldatravestytoallowthisidea This week's topic conc~rns to pass by without serious consid- · Residence Life and a pol icy that eration, after all, this may be the. they have, which has. ticked m.e school's bestgpp()ftunity _to c~~a- off since 1 was a freshman.· T\:lis lyze change in the community policy is the \moving in\ policy, since Union's campus was moved · or better known to me as \the re- here a century ago. alfy ridiculous moving in policy.\ Sincerely, Mi.chaelW,inn This rule says that one may re- turn to campus only on the day before class starts at 12 noon. How many rocket scientists does it take to figure out that this is NOT enough time to move into a room. Ifthe average travel time per student to Union is 5 hours, then this means that you have a LONG day ahead of you. Let's See if this scenario sounds vaguely fatn il iar to anyone. Saturday: The day before you go back to school. Pack yo~trsuit­ cases. (garbage bags )computer, TV, m:icrowave, halogen lights, huliday presents, etc. This takes you about 2 hours, you spend the rest o fthe day yearning to escape the confines of your parents. (7 weeks is a damn long time) Yolt mean to go to sleep early, because you know tomorrow is going to be a long day, but you end up watching TV or doing something else and don't get to sleep until2. Sunday: Besides waking up at a ungodly hour of the morning, anywhere from 6 AM - I 0 AM you have to pack your car. So you shower and stun: this takes about 30 minutes. You might have time to grab some breakfast, but every minute· counts, you have an 8:40 tomorrow. Ok, for arguments sake, you get up at SAM, and you are ready to leave _.yourhouseat lOAM. Thedrivc from your house to Union, traffic permitting, is 3.5 hours. And you're off The traffic was good and you made good time (this time)., and you arrive at school at 2 PM. Well at \east you don't have to lvor:ry about getting to school before 12 noon. I heard they make you st~nd outside in the cold ifyot1want to move in at I I in themoming. Now, tor the second time.in a day, you have to move your things. Anyone who lives on a second (or higher) floor, knows that this can be a tiring task {remember you woke up at 8). Time again, is stilf on your side . and you finished moving in at 4. By this time you are exhausted, (by you know what), and it would be soooooo cool to have your books for your 8:40, so you have some clue as to what the profes- sor is talking about Ack! You walk to the College Center and the bookstore is closed! (is it ever open?). Besides all the money that they could make selling books on Sunday, besides some parents are on campus. Parents (cash} love to buy all of that Union stu.ffin the bookstore. But no, its closed. Now it is time to see the friends you have riot seen in 7 weeks and already, the dock striRes I I. Some of you go to sleep then, you do have an 8:40, others just well... go out. Monday: The alann goes off at 8:30 (or doesn't). You might make class (you might not). The point of this exercise was to see what probably over three\ quarters of the campus goes through. In my opinion, the policy does more to hannthestu- dents then to help them. What is the big deal about letting students In on the Thursday or Friday be- fore class begins. Ifthis were the case many of us would not have to rush to school, we could take our t\tne and be prepared for dass. The only reason the Admin- · istration does not let us back early is because they would have topay for three or four extra days of heat, electricity., salary, and food. It's not like we pay $30;000 dol- lars a year for school or anything _Greeks, Orientalism and U Support for Thurston House Appreciated· The last contribution I made to The Concordiensis'was a revised draftofa letter that I read to Presi- dent Hull. I made reference to a concept called Orientalism and in this letter to the editor I win be attempting to state my perspec- tive on a slightly more 'abstract, y·etpracticallevel. Orienta/ism, by Edward Said, is a book that deals with the dy- namics ofa relationship of a rul- ing group with a ruled group. The term, Orientalism, used by Said connotates his foremost ex~ ample: English colonial ideas about the people of the Orient. (The Orient is a tenn used by ·most of the world to de.scribe the groups of people in the Middle- East, Hungary. and Northern Af- rica} According to Said, the En- g! ish colonial mentality begot an elitist 1m;ntality. the.: groups of people in the Orient can be clumped tegether based on their common relationship to the En- giish Tht elitist idca.s also in- cluded the opinion that people .of the Oricllt arc stupid, w-ithout logic, and in need of a firm, yd demanding hdping hand to be. Cl vii-i zed in the English manner My last essay to The Coricordiensis touc,:hcd on the use of this concept when .appl1ed to the attitude of many administra- tors and faculty to the members of greek letter organizations. In the following paragraphs, I will attempt to explain better 1ny po- sition .. To begin, the p(}pular culture to which most Americans sub- scribe uses the ten~ \frat\ rather than-\fratemity\' or the greek let- ter organization'& name .. Unfor- tunately, the term \frat'\-contains more than a definition: \frat\ is seen as the cliche image of Ani- mal House. While many groups tnay be similar to that depicted in the movie, those which are not are stin classified under the same term. Therefore prejudiced ideas are constructed nhout conduct, morab, and vaiLI~::i that rna) mis- rcpn::sent the true nature of the group in question With thc aid u f <.t ~o:ommu11 krm used to Qlcgorizc \ ar ious groups, school administrators, faculty, and inembers uf collcgt! cam- pusc~ at large <Jre able to ignore a multitude of di ffcrenccs and dump these grot.rps together This d uhiping enables the ruling class -··the administrat-ion lu pas~ h:g1slatlun whidl<tllccts till' \frats .. , fratcrmtics, ur groups who ha,ve named thcmsel vcs \Vi th gre.c.k letters. By passing adrmn- istrative legislation on such a wide variety of groups, the adm inistra- tion saves time, energy, and money that would have been used on an investigation. In return, many groups who were not ini- tially in mind when the legisla- tion was passed are forced to change based upon rules which were made to fix (supposedly} someone else's problem. The ef~ feet is a grand old back-fire! People get angry, donations trail off, letters flood the desks of the adm ini sttation, thousands of trees are killed - to make the paper that is used to complain about the decisions made by an administra- tion simply trying to save time, . enemv, 3rid monevf ~- \ So, where docs that lea vc ns,., T 31Tl not trying to save trees, kccp the administration from saving To The Editor, I'm writing ~o thank the cam- ~l;s cotn-~'nunity for your support as we created Thurston House last spring. arid launched it this term. }he Thurston House community wants. very JTiLrch to .. give back\ t(). you all. In that spifit, we 'II host a regtilar \Wednesday Nights at - . Thurston House\ program all this term - activities keyed to cur- rent events in Asia. We hope that every member of the campus community will come through Thurston House .on at least one • Wednesday evening this term! Sincerely, Bruce Reynolds mollC), or dchasc Pre<; r lull ahout . 1 ~,l~)iisitlfti~rifli~~~~:~l;i~lll •• l~\JUI~t~~~~~-~'eJ1;J~ l1is lousy meal plan What I am . trying to do is to tell everyone that \ before you act, fi-nd out \Vhat ynu 're Jcting on T1eforc the ad- · ministration makes any more lcg- isl::ltivc decisions that span all or- gani;ations which have greek let- krs in their nan1cs, th~.:y should finJ ()\It \\ ho the prnhkm-lllak- ns arc and deal \\ ith them S mccrclv - ' f\.hks /\ Kellam-

}. ' '·· ! ·Page·i· January 16~ · 1997 · itnie'illotno.r'iti~nsi~ · .· . · ·. ·. · .. ·· · ·. ... .· ·. · . < . · _.·· ·. : : . . ···: .. QP/ED .. ; : • • < • •• ' ~ ' • ' • • • ' ' 1 • V I • • • ' ,- • ' • ' • ' ' • Opinion Student Forum Resists Plan to Benefit Community Home Sweet Home Dear Editor, As a mcmberofthe Student Fo- rum, I had the pleasure of attend- ing a special meeting wi~h Presi- dent Hull last Monday. During that meeting. I was surprised with what I heard and saw fro1n many ofthe representatives of our stu- dent body In a school that needs change, many ofthe members of the Student Forum retl1sed to ac- knowledge the benefit of the pro- posal offered When I first 1 istened to the idea of moving Union's home ice off campus, I was as skeptical as ev- erybody else Our Division I hockey team is something that students, faculty, and alumni are very proud of. and would all love to keep their games on our be- loved campus. The mrUority of the student forum fought for this right, but possibly without the proper consideration of a more important issue. I think we all agree that the area surrounding our campus, especially on the Seward street side, is not a desir- able place for any kind ofstttdent interaction with the Schenec1ady community. Of course, the school cannot take responsibility for the economic and social sta- tus ofthe city, but I feel if given the opportunity to make n sub- stantial change, Union should se- riously consider the action, in this case the construction of a brand new skating facility one or two blocks otT campus. The new facility would provide that parf of town with a profitable reason to use basic capitalist ide- als to spur reformation and/or renovation. With the constant mass of students walking to and f'rom the rink. as well CiS many youth hockey progrmns using the facilities. new husincs~es would have a chance to lure customers with probable success. Oh\'iously the change would not go without risk. but how long will our school go on fixing the interior of our campus, while letting the exterior diminish further Another one of Union's prob- lems which has been addressed in the forum consistent! y is the lack of social space on campus, and this may be improved as well. President Hull gave the impres- sion that if the college were -to proceed with this idea, Achilles Rink would be used for social space. r ITI not trying to COllY ince everybody that this the ansv.er to all our problems, but I feel it would a travesty to allow this idea to pass by without serious consid- eration, after all, this 1nay be the school's best opportunity to cata- lyze change in the t::ommunity since Union's campus \vas moved here a century ago S inccrely, Michael Winn Robert Cohen Contributing Writer We all agree that there are many things wrong in the world. I also helieve, that everyone would agree that there are many things wrong with the little world of Union in which we 1 ive I low- ever. it seems to me that every- one is l~1irly happ~· living with these things The Administration more often then not. takes· the opinion that there is nothing wrong with the campu~. well at least nothing too serious Stu- dents for the most part.\\ mild Jo something to chnnge something they feel is \\rong I Iowe\u. the avenues that must he fnllm\ed to accomplish \a ckmge\ are widely unknown. if ever used The pro- fessors. ;,md I hate to put this so hluntly, whether they care or not. would probably do nothing to change life for the students, ex- cept get rid of fraternities They do not live here, ifthey get sick of it, they go home Each week. I hope to tackle an issue that is per- tinent to the 1 ife of the student here, things I feel must be changed in order to not only to make life here better, but increase the communication between the students and the Administration. This week's topic concerns Residence Life and a policy that they have, which has ticked me off since l was a freshman. This policy is the \moving in\ policy, or better known to me as \there- alTy ridiculous moving in pol icy\ This rule says that one may re- turn to campus only on the day before class starts at I 2 noon !low many rocket scientists docs Greeks, Orientalism and U The last contribution l111ade to The Concordiensi.<i was a revised draft of a letter that I read to Presi- dent Hull I made reference to a concept called Oriental ism and in this Jetter to the editor I will be attempting to state my perspec- tive on a slightly more abstmct, yet practical level. Orienta/ism, by Edward Said, is a book that deals with the dy- namics of a relationship of a rul- ing group with a ruled group. The term, Orientalism. used by Said connotates his foremost ex· ample: English colonial ideas about the people of the Orient. (The Orient is a tenn used by most of the world to describe the groups of people in the tvliddlc- East. U ungary, and Nort hem ;\ f- rica ) According to Said, the En- glish colonial mentality begot an elitist mentality tht: gn>ups of people in the Orient can bt: clumped together based on their common relationship to the En- g! ish The elitist ideas also in- cluded the opinion that people of the Orient are stupid, v..ithout logic, and in need of a J1nn, yet demanding helping hand to be. c1vilized in the English manner My last essay to The Cuncordiensis touched on the use of this concept when applied to the attitude of many administra- tors and faculty to the mcm hers of greek letter organizations ln the following paragraphs. I \Viii attempt to explain better my po- sition. To begin, the popular culture to which most Americans sub- scribe uses the term \frat\ rather than \fraternity\ ortlle greek let- ter organization's name. Unfor- tunate! y, the term \frat \·contains more than a dcfinitt(m \frat\ is seen as the cliche i1nagc of Ani- mal HULise. While many groups may be simiiar to that depleted in the movie. those which are not uri.! still classified under the same term. Therefore pre;udiccd ideas arc L'nnstructeJ ahout condth:t. morals. ami values that ma) m i'>- reprcscnt the trut: nature of the group in que:-,tJon Wnh the aid of a comJnllll term used tn categorize\ anous groups. schnol aJm inistrator~. fa.:ult). anJ mt:mher~ uf <:u!Jege cam- pLises at largt: arc ahle to ignore a mult1tutlc of differcnt:cs and clump these group~ togcthn This dumping enables the ruling class--- the adnumstration - tu pass legis I at Jon \\ hJCil affects tht: \frab ··. fraternities. m gwup:-, who have namL·J themselves \VIth greek letters. By passing ad min- istrati ve legislation on such a wide variety of groups, the administra- tion saves time. energy, and money that would have been used on an in vcstigation. In return, many groups who were not ini- tially in mind when the legisla- tion was passed are forced to change based upon rules which were made to fix (supposedly) someone else's problem. The ef- fect is a grand old back-fire! People get angry, donations trail off. letters Hood the desks of the admlni~tration, thousands of trees are killed - to make the paper that i~ usell to complain about the decisions made bv an administra- tion simply trying to save time. en erg\·. ~md monc) I So. \\here Joes that kavc us, I am 1wt trying to <,;1\c trees. keep the admm1stration from saving nwne:• . nr Jehase Pre-; !lull ahout h1s lou:.y me:.~! plan What I am tr\ ing to do is tn tell everyone thai befnrc you act. fllld Put \\hat ~ou·re acting on Before the ad- ministration makes any more leg- i,latl H: decisions that span all or- ganvatinns which have greek lct- IL'rs in their names. thev should 11nJ out \\ h\1 the pmhlcm-mak- I.TS an: and deal \\ 1th them S im:ereh . Mvles A Kellam- it take to figure out that this is NOT enough time to move into a room. If the average travel time per student to Union is 5 hours, then this means that you have a LONG day ahead of you Let's see if this scenario sounds vaguely familiarto anyone. Saturday. The Jay before you go back to school Pack your suit- cases (garbage bags)computcr, TV. microwave, halogen lights, holiday presents. etc. This takes you about 2 hours. vou srend the rest orthe day y~:urning to escape the confines of your parents (7 weeks is a damn long time) You mean to go to skcp early, hecause you know tomorro\\ is going to h~: a long day. but you end up watching TV or duing something else and don't get to sleep until 2 Sunday lksid~s waking up at a ungodly hour of the morning, anywhere from 6 !\ M - 1 0 AM you have to pack your car. So you shower and stuff. this takes about 30 minutes You might have time to grah some breakfast, but every minute counts, you have an 8:40 tomorrow Ok, for arguments sake, you get up at SAM, and you arc ready to leave your house at I 0 1\M The dn ve lrom your house tot Inion, traffic permitting, is 3 5 hours. And you' rc off The tr~1ffic was good and you made good tim~: (this time), and you arrive at school at 2 PM. We\\ at least you don't have to worry about getting to school before 12 noon l heard they make you stand outside in the cold if you want to move in at ll in the morning. Now, for the second time in a day, you have to move your things Anyone who lives on a second (or higher) floor, knows that this can be a tiring task (remember you woke up at 8) Time again, is still on your side and you finished moving in at 4 By this time you are exhausted, (by you know what). and it would be soooooo cool to have your books for your 8:40, so you have some clue as to what the pro fes- sor is talking about Ackl You \\alk to the College Center anJ the bookstore is closed! (is it C\'Cf open')) Besides all the money that they could make ~elling hooks on Sunday. hesides some parents arc on campus Parents (cash) love to huy all of that Union stuff in the bookstore But no. its closed. NtJ\\ it 1s t1mc to see the friends you ha\t.' not seen in 7 weeks and alreadv, the clock striRes II. Som~ of )OU go to sleep then. you do have an 8 40. others just well.. go out Monday The alann goes ol'f<lt H 30 (or doesn't) You might make class (you might not) The point of this exercise \\as to see what probably over three- quarters of the campus goes through. In my opinion, the pol icy does more to hann the stu- dents then to help them. What is the hig deal about letting students in on the Thursda)' or Friday be- lore class begins. If this were the case many of us would not have to rw;h to schooL we could take our time and be prepared for class The only reason the 1\clmin- i.stration docs not let us back early is because they would have to pay for three or four extra days of heat, dectricity, salary, and food. It's not I ike \Ve pay '!)30,000 dol- lars a year for school or anything Support for Thurston House Appreciated To The Editor. I'm \Hiting to thank the cam- pus community flH your support as we created Thurston I louse last spring, and launched it this term. The Thurston f louse community wants very much to \give hack\ to you all. Inthatspirit v.e'll host a regular \Wednesday Nights at Thurston House'' pmgram all this term - activities keyed to cur- rent events in Asia. We hope that every member of the campus community \viii come throuuh . ~ Thurston House on at least one . Wednesday evening this term I Sincerely, Bruce Reynolds ·. :d~·.-~ .. , .. ~ .. .-_,.,,\\\ ... , . ,· ·. - ·· ,. ··.·@gwrr tiwJi8D'it'dil''~'i~'f' ''flii'·~tltii' W.tJ'rW · · · '·:~.: .. ··w~~·(l~ < _ •• • • :: :: •• ,~¥.: ><f.,:~.~'·~ ~·· ~>-·· ~. -. ___ : · ···~ttiv::Il. ::· · ··\ vi·riuah ua,j·~Qhll\~'t\*·llt':l~.e(O;n.c O·l' d.yl · · ,· r' ·tnd:e:x Jttttn: •. \ttli ·; ~ :.~u-st be re~iev:~:tt1~:~J-~:.~~)~ Monday · · · .. before· publkat .. i~··a:tM lt'l'USt be ·less tlian 500~ lv·4:);.r'(l;$::~rJ~i$:~. see the • Ophtions poiicy-;n;ti;:e,:,Op.pos.ite page ·.for more detail~!· . . ~-~· ·~

Page_8·Janu.ary16,. 1997·'illlfe.OiottctH~ttien5is. . :. · . . . OP/ED This morning I went to A-Plus to buy cigarettes. I don't do this often, but I always seem to make the mistake of carrying just my studenti.D. and some cash. Sure enough, I asked for a pack, and she asked for I .D. This is a con- tinual point of amusement forme, and it tends to catch me off guard. What could I do? I showed her the class of '98 validine special. As expected, this was not accept- able. I tried logic: \well you see, I'm a junior in college; that's what this card says. And I'm not Doogie, which means I'm about as old as any other college jun- ior. Which is about 20.\ She smiled, sympathetically, and said nothing. What did she think? Had I forged a college I.D. so I could pull this lame scam on A- Plus attendants? I turned to walk out, wondering which genious in Washington decided that after 18 years of life, a person could offi- cially make the choice to begin sucking the life out of myself But tliis law is good, right? It seems the government is making a conscious effort to help Ameri- cans save themselves from cancer, albeit.in a bass-ackwards way. If smoking is so bad, why not shut down Ph-illip Morris (for .argument's sake, let's pretend that tobacco giants do not make bil- lion-dollar campaign contribu- tions)? Instead, what we have is a law which freely acknowledges age discrimination, and sets a ri- diculous, if not downright stupid precedent: \oh you're 18? You must be old enough to recognize the risks associated with tobacco smoking. Have a pack\ Is my brain thatmuchmore mature now that I can intelligently weigh the pleasures of smoking against its detriments? I guess I have trouble respect- ing onr government's random and lackadaisical attempts at disci- pline. Not that outlawing tobacco would make much sense, but the \I 8-to-smoke\ law sets up a double standard; if something is unhealthy for a 17 year-old, then it is biologically no better for a 19 year-old. And then, the ultimate Opinion Traffic Problems .. ~ · through the lot Why is it that • -~? Christopher Leone registvred car will get a ticket for inconsistancy is that we spend Layout Editor · being in the College Center circl(e countless tax do !:Iars to fix the for a total of 1 0 minutes with its people who have smoked them- This campus is in desperate hazard lights on, when an unreg- selves silly. And why. single out need of additional parking space. istered car can sit in bad weather tobacco? Americans consume Over the past week, during our for three heurs or more without almost as much cow as th~y do brief, but lovely, Schenectady being ticketed? packsofcigarettes, with an equal snow storm, the campus lots Thepurposeofthisletterisnot carcinogenic effect. Perhaps the were overcrowged. Our fearless to condemn the securfty forces. sale' of red meat should be re- security leaden~ were busy giv- There are times when they come strictedtopeopleage 18andover, ing out tickets to· visiting cars to the aid ofpeople in need. I too. parked in front of Sllliman Hall. respect them for dealing with the Anyway ,I had to smile a'S I left However, they were not policing cruel Schenectady winters and the store. She had relentect-. I · the dormitory lots or the confu- with the lovely dispositions ofthe purchased the cigarettes sans l.D. sion that lay within. students·. In the past, I have been But could I really light up, now, Cars were parkedeverywhere given my own share of tickets, havingjustunabashedlycriticized with no particular strategy. lo and rightfully so. However, if · ·nearly everything pertaining to make matters worse, there were they must write tickets for park- smoking? Unfortunately, I prob~ twenty unregistered cars in the ing offenses, they should place ably could-· · which leads me to West Parking lot at 9:45 a.m. them where there are real prob- bel ieve that all the lawmakers Did these cars belong to .fresh- lems. Students park in handicap must smoke, and because of this man? If they were, most, if not spaces and fire lanes, but they do didn't want to outlaw their fix. aH, ofthem were stillin the same not receive tickets. [.park in an Instead, they d~id the next best place at 12:30. None of these emptylotmarkedfordeliveries, thing-· they convenientlysingled cars wer.e ticketed, and I ain quite and I am chased. Can we see out people who can't vote, made sure some patrol car had to go more justice for $28,000? an rhetorical anti-tobacco state- 1-------~-~~---~-~----~~-- ment, and maintained their per- sonal status quo. I'm not surprised ... hey-· its a powerful drug. SHOULD WE GO :SMOKE FRE·E? T'hurberville: Cruel, Crass or Crucial Seventy-nine percentoftlw class ofthe class of2000 circled \non- smoking rootn\ on their resident preference sbeet. That is a large percent of our community which demands. a sinok.i~ free atmosphere. Only 34% of our resident imll floors now accomodate this preference. None of the the;ne house on campus are smoke freeeithei-. Where are Raquel Millman Staff .Writer . . ~ - ' -, ; truth. The striking thing about make people angry, especially what is considered funny in West- people with any kind of power be em,cu\tu~' is that we laugh at what 'it social or authoritative, and s~ill As I am switching over from is true. If l can say one thing for expect to carry on as though ev- OpinionsEditortoFeatures,I·can Rawson, he deHnitely has a erythingisfine.Mr.Thurberisnot now speak as an expert on uniquewayofcitingwhatistrue afraid. In a weird. way, he Rawson Thurber's controversial and wording it witl1 a cynical shouldn't be persecuted, but ap- column. After reading the re- twist. preciated. He is doing something sponsesofangry Union students There is a small, small part of the rest of the student body is and then sitting and watching me that envies Rawson's overt, afraid to do; he is speaking his Rawson stew while writing a obnoxious honesty. There are completely uncensored mind. . these people going to live? · . · ' · · When evaluating resident hall conditions for next year, sh~uld Residence Lifecomply with this demand? Should 80% of our residence halls be smoke free? CALL EXTENSfON 2227 and express your opinion. As these statistics are reviewed, your messages wiU be taken into great coi1sideration. wittytopten,Ihavebeenableto thingsontlliscampusthatlwould I don't Inean to inflate Mr. Robert A-von Smith Summer formulate my own opinions lovetojttstripapartbypointing Thurber's ego any more than it about Mr. Thurber's opinions. out demented truths, but I'm not already is. Wsjustthatwhilesome Research Fellowship in I'llbethefirstonetoadmitthat about to do.it. Mr.Thurber ofwhathesaysisdisturbing,he I have been offended by Mr. doesn't hesitate. He adores his istellingthetruth.It'snotRawson Bio- Medical Engineering at Thurber's l;lrticles. Personally, I hate mail! It's my beliefthat ev- who is disturbing; what's disturb- don't tl1ink that there is much ery campus needs a Rawson. W~ ing is the things that are going on U • C JJ humor in the fact that a large por- need someone to cite the things at Union College and the fact that . n10 0 0 ege tion of the women of Union Col- that weare all thinking, but don't no one wants to deal with any of lege suffer from such diseases; have the nerve to say. On such a it. Thank you RawsonJor bring- This fellowship is sponsored by Robert A Von however, that happens to be the small campus there is no room to ing the unspoken to the surface. Smith, Class of 1952. It is awarded to students in the --------~----------~~------------------------~-------------------i sciences or in engineering who participate in a summer ATTENTION FRESHMEN & SOPHMO·RES Gideon Hawley Awards For Outstanding Secondary School Teachers If you would like an opportunity to thank a secondary school teacher who was influential in encouraging you to develop in important ways (academic, social, emotional growth) we are now soliciting nominations to honor outstanding high school teachers at the Founder's Day Ceremonies. Please pick up a fortn from the Educational Studies Office or caU X 6361. Forma will also be available from Departmental Secretaries. Deadline for nominations is January 17, 1997 research program in biomedical engineering under the guidance of Union Co liege faculty. The award will be made available to a student selected on the bases of ability to conduct independent research in biomedical engineering and ofcommitment ·to the summer research program. Students interested in applying for the S4mmer 1997 Fellowship should contact Professor J. Richard S_hanebrook in the . Department of Mechanical Engineering. Submit you ideas and comments to The Concordiensis, 11elp take an active part at Union ' \

• Glnbal News . . · · . · 'QJip~ QinurorDicnsis .January 16, 1997 Page .9 Global News Gingrich Takes Second Term as Speaker by Suzanne Dougherty National News Editor ' The iOSth C<>ngress bega:f!. on January 7 with an air of un- ce:rtain,ty. Th~ first task tra- ditionally taken by the House nf Representatives, the elec- · t:ion. of a Speaker~ has had a l()ng history of b~ing a boring party line V()te. This year, however, fo:t the first time since -'1,923, the race for the of- fice of the Speaker was con\. tEsted. Accusations that Newt Gingrich (R-GA), who has held the posHi<>n for the past ;~o years, violated several ethics codes {)Ver the financ- ing of a tel~vised college co1:1rse he taught forced many House members to have .doubts about Gingrich's fu- ture in the :House. Despite fhis., House members voted on Tuesday by a narrow mar•. ~in to reelect Gingrich. United Sta.ies Another htt:ge round of con- oli<l.a.tion is underway in 1Ar:ner·1ca's defense industry. \\\\'f'\'oon made an agreed billion offer for the mis- By day's end \Gingrich ted a request for extended prevailed with only 216 time past the January 21 votes,allofwhomwereRe- deadline for a final House publicans. Nine Republi- report on Gingrich's actions. ca~defected,eithervoting Cole, along with the other for other Republican lead- ~1embe.rs of the bipartisan ers or abstaining by voting committee, feel that a few \present\. Democratic Mi- more days will allow them nority Leader, Rkhard tobetterablecompleteafull Gephardt (D-MO), re- reportthatcanhe subn1itted ceived 205 votes, including to the House for final action 204. Den1ocrats and 1 inde- on Gingrich. pendent, l3ernard Sanders Republicans rejected the (I-VM). Jim Leach (R-IA) request223 to205. The only received 2 votes from Republicans voting for the Mi~hael Forbes (R-NY) <}rtd . deadline lift were Porter Tom Campbell (R-CA), Goss(R-FL)andSteveSchiff former Representative Bob (R.,.NM), both ef which are Walker.,(R-P A) received a members of the ethics com- vote from Linda Smith (R- mittee. W A), and forme!\ Bouse Not giving up without a Republican leader Bob fight, Vic Fazio (D-CA) Michel (R-IL) received one stood before the House in vote from Leach. attempts to persuade House Following the vote for mempers to elect an interim House Speaker, James M. Speaker to preside over the Cole, spedal counselfor the House until all ethics prow ethics coum1ittee submit- ceedings a.gainst Gingrich minds, the four' Europea~ years. partners . of Airbus German prosec Industrie, whose lumber- charged Jurgen Sc ing structure at present whose prope~ty empi means each controls its crashed three years ago own manufacturing .facili- one of Germany's bigges · ties, agreed to pool most of corporate scandalsr those assets when the con- credit card fraud~ ................ -.. ••• sortium goes corporate in ~ankruptcy and forgery 1999 They found no criminal After a ru.sh of deals at dence against the he end of last month, banks he had tried to impli Boeing ·announced orders cate in his downfall in 1996 for 559 aircraft, Shares in Italy's Oliv worth $42.8 biilion .. Air- jumped ~on talk that the bus; on a comparable basis, leaguered information had net orders, worth $36.4 technology group may billion. last shed its loss-making Two car n1akers, sonal computer ........ .,. ... \''hr• ..... cl Germany 1 s B.MW, in its for upward. of $130 ...... u.-..u-.\ 1 first foray into South The buyer may well be America, and America's tenary Group, a private Chrysler, formed a $500tn vestment company joint venture to build by a number of 400,000 ertgines a year in ists. Brazil from 1999. BMW Asia are over. At that point a permanent decision could be made. Th~ Republicans defeated this motion quickly with only 4\Repub- licans voting for the delay. After his win, Gingrich took the podium for his address to the House. A central focus of his speech was an apology for embar- rassing the House and damaging the integrity of it as an institution.He also outlined his goals for the upcoming term. Slightly less ambitious than his Con- tract with America that he <\nnounced 2 years ago dur- ing the sa m,e speech, Gingrich declared his com- mitment to breaking racial barriers, ending the drug epidemic, and battling ig- nor~nce. Democratic Whip, David E. Bonoir .(D-Ml) succeeded Gingrich at the podium, dampening the spirits of many on a typically festive day. He accttsed Gingrich of not upholding the high standards of tl1e Hottse and not meeting the responsibili- ties given to him by the vot- ers. Bonoir expressed con- cern that the House did not wait to hear the final report from the ethics committee. He stated, nAt issue is the ethical character of the man second in line to the Presi- dency. These are serious charges, and the ethics com- mittee must be allowed ad- equate time to spell out the truth.\ A week into the session, the fate of the 105th Congress is unknown. One could prob- ably expect a Gingrich that is somewhat subdued in com- parison to two years ago when he first took office: Gingrich stated in his speech on Tuesday, \Two years ago when I became the first Re- publican Speaker in 40 years, to the degree I was too brash, too self-confident or too pushy, I apologize.\~ How- ever, as the ethics committee reports its findings against Gingrich to the House, there will be no lack of excitement for Gingrich or the House. lnformationa\ Meeting fo,r Underrepresented Minorities*. II II To Discuss ... 1. Unio~ College/ Albany Medical College Early Assurance Program ~. Minority Medical Education Program, (MMEP) Monday J.anuary 20th, 1997 @ 6:45PM. College Center ~- Room 308 *The American Association of Medical Colleges defines underrepresented minority as follows: Black, Mexican-American, Mainland Puerto- Rican, American Indian, Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian \ will also build a factory to Li Ka-shing .annou AAP tf rou t.OO~ 'l'b Yoo.R 'RJGJiT Yov make 5,000 land rovers an- sweeping changes to Cl\tl Ct.EAR..t.Y se.£ ,.~t JMM•GAAN'TS ~.,. nually. Hong Kong business em ~ TA'l<IHG ooR 'JOBS··· ANP ToYotJ& W 1 · h ld l,.E.F'f. Yov\t. S£'£ ASINGJ..E MO'TNER Ht\&'PKf oo wtc · Bui ing Sod- pire. His main company WoRK- .ossnoY1t-1G ouR AMSit'CAN VALuES. ety, Britain's third-largest, Cheung Kong Holdings, coMM•l'IG w, we. Ht\VE l-iOM 0 SiXUAJ..5 said it will ha¥e a market raise its stake in H lii~Mio~t.~e~I!.T~l~N~G~OOP.~~C~H~li.~'PR.~E.N~.~~~i;;! capitalization of up to $5.8 Whampoa, whose •. nt-,,,.,..,.,t-ct billiGn, a bit higher than runfrotn ports to tel4~coms llll•BIIi!H expected, when it floats on Hutchison Whampoa is the London Stock Ex- making a .genetai offer change in July, and hopes HongKong Electric. Mr. to be on~ of Britain's top then intends to hive off ten banks in term.s of assets. of the utility into '-H't::Lu Central hanks, Kong infrastructure, '\'r\\\\\ particularly European interests lie on the mOl·1Tl·I!Ol1\\11n Ones, sold off huge quanti- Lapanese inV\'\'r•nrc ties of gold in the second returned from the half of last year. At $335 break nervous about per ounce, the price of gold government's tax plans. now stands at its lowest Nikkei average fell and . ~!!£!~~~~~~~~jle~v~·eil_iin~!lS'!~t!!:he~rtU}~~!!;to!J.aDi~~ttll~.:........-_j ~idewtJk ;Bub.bl~uM ®1'19E CJ~SUI'Jer

· Features · · . <rn~c Qioucorbicusis January 16~ 1997 Pa-ge.lO · T h u r b e r v til e by Rawson Thurber A hearty welcome back to all th.ose lovely and talented Union College students out there! Blah, blah, blah. Here's the top ten list. TopT~n Mo~t Frequently Asked Questions During the First Week Back 10. Nice tan, where did you go? 9. Did ya have a good break? 8. Don't you hate everyone asking how your brealc was? So how was your break? 7. What did you do for break? 6. My break sucked, how was yours? 5. I wish we were s.till on break, don't you? 4. Jesus this place sucks, wanna get drunk? 3. So how was your break? 2. Do anything cool on your break? I. Do you know where I can get some hard-core drugs? As we all know sorority rush is about t.o kick off to its humiliating and duplicitous start. I know I'm excited! All those broken hearts, instant \friendships and exclusionary tactics are only a few weeks away! So I figured a top ten I ist would be just the thing. Top Ten Re.jected Topics of Discussion for the Mandatory Sorrority Rush Informational Meeting 10. \How to weigh your self-esteem\ 9. \The best responses to the, \What's yom m~jor?'' question'' 8. \The top 3 colors that don't make you look fat\ 7. \How to touch that hangy thing in the back of your throat\ 6. \Dirty Rt~sh: How to make it work tor you!, 5. \The Advantages of Being Pretty\ . . 4. \Back-Stabbing: Tradition or Art form'~\ 3. The \Should I or Shouldn't I wear it\ Paradox 2. \How your breasts can get you a bid!\ 1. \The Importance of just being yourself~ Students oftlze Week: Laura Felton is the first student of the week in 1997. Poor Laura broke her left ann while ice-skating with her parents on New Year~ s Eve. A11d just tor the record, she was sober. So Laura receives the pity \Student ofthe Week\.award.l don't know which is more saddening, thefact that she broke her arm, or the fact that she was with her parents, sober, on New Year's Eve. My empathy goes out to you Laura, but hopefully this award will brighten her day. Brian Barton and Jason Pinney win the co-Student of the Week award. These two men Is It Just a Readjustment? by Michelle Tham Staff Writer So here we are again. It's funny how first term feels so far away. Maybe that's just because the length of winter br.eak is a:hnost ridiculous. Nothing's really . changed aboutthe Union campus. Except fora li-ttle snow and ran- • dom construction workers, the buildings still stand finn:Jy andtJre · hum of student voices still fill tlle · Campus Center·. What; s different is the atmosphere. It's like starting over again. Being torn frorri home and whirled irito a world of dreaded 8:40am classes and dining hall food. Feeling pulled away from the calmness ofabsorute familiar- ity and thrown into uncertainty. Trying hard to feel right again;' when nothing-' srea:lly right at alL At least not yet Ittakes a littleVJhile to get used to this absolute sense offreedom and new experience. And evezy person feels a littl~' differently about what.college life entails, It can be an adventurous quest for new friends or ftesh knowledge from classes. Sometimes college means stress and late nights: For freshman Colleen Kyler, \It's strange. I finally get used to school first 'term and they make us go home. I finally get used to home and they make us go back to school.\ In a lot of ways, it's like a game oftug-o-war~ feeling pulled between the two I ives we all lead. Another freshman, Steve Perucci says, \It's good living at home, butthere'salotmorefree- dom at school and it's always. nice to spend time away .from the par- ·. ents.\ Coming back in January also · means complete change in many aspects of students' lives. Classes are all different from the tenn before, and we have to readju-st ourselves to new professors and sometimes even to old friends. Freshman Kathleen Virkler com- ments, \It's basically starting all over again and learning to reac- quaint yourself with people that we're still a certain way with our ·friends from home arid a differ- 'ellt way with our school friends. I ttakes a whil eto be finn enough in peJ:sonality to act consistently in the two worlds. College may be about learning to do just that. For upperdassmen, coming back .to school can be a com- pletely different situation. There's a greater sense of comfort and securitY arnongthesedonn rooms and fraternity or sm'Ority houses for them. Union College isn't a· new, strange place anymore: It's also maybe iwt as exciting as it once was. Sophomore Manpreet Kalsi bet ieves, \Last year I inlssed ho1i1e but at least school was exciting and theJ:e·was still\ such an urge to meet new people and try new things .. This year, though, being an RA and taking harder classes means a lot more stress and a patterned routine. There isn't much time to just stop, relax: and think about things and that makes adjusting harder.\ For senior Mike Gifford com- .ir:tg back to college after the break tneans he's anothettenn closer to graduation. He says, 'Tmjust re- alizing that I'm looking toward something so uncertain. Ws kin~ oftough to deal with at times, The truth is, each time I get back here I am even closer to that sense ofuncertainty that lies aheadofme.\ So!'naybe it never really ends: that obstacle of start- ing over. Freshman struggle to settle into the independence of college whileseniors look behind them and see a familiar place only to look ahead to an even scarier fonn of independence. Overall, maybe being here at school is just about learning. Not so much from books, but more about discovering what life is like without Mom and Dad (even though we gohomeonce in while just to check ifwe still want to be so free). spent nearly the entire break living here in Schenectady. This, of course, would make sense if either of • have all changed. in either a good or bad fashion.\ For most of us, College .is a lot about finding wbo we are and what kind of people we'd like to be. And by the end, most of us won't be so confused by change anymore and readjusting won't be so terribly hard. them played a winter sport, but alas nietherofthem engage in such activity. Instead they brushed up on their Beer Pong skills, and became deeply involved in an alcohol research study. God Bless these men. Hate mail? Questions? Concerns? Student{)fthe Week nominations') Write Rawson Thurber #20 18, or e-mail him at Thurberr idol.union.edLI Hasbro's Hidden Evil by Jeffrey Druzba Staff Writer A good friend of inine from high school had a child back in October. It being the holiday sea- son, I naturally sent along a gift from \Uncle Jeff'. So, as I was doing all of my shopping, I came upon a toy store and went inside. There I found something that caught my attention. Like the I ittle kid it is probably intended for, I was mesmerized by the rainbow colors, the sounds it made, and the plush feel of it. This thing, I think it's supposed to be a worm, was · -m-ade of six sections and each one ~ had something inside of it that made a neat sound when it was squeezed or shook. It's really a noisy, bt1sy thing \for a stuffed toy. I decided that ifit held my atten- tion sowell~ithadto bejustwhat a little kid needed. That's when it struck tne as fLinny: \What if the only thing that re- ally mattered was what a kid had to play with wilen they were young? Forget nature vs. nurture or any ()fthatbblogical mumbo jumbo. Whatiftheonlythingthat made a difference was what toys you had when you were little? By getting my friend's kid the squeaking, rattling, gurgling, rainbow colored wonn, I might somehow be influencing his fu- ture in ways no one· will ever un- derstand. What if, by me sending this one toy, the kid discovers later in life that he wants to be an artist? Oh no! What if, ·by me sending thi~ seemingly innocent toy, the kid unknowingly develops into .a psy- chopath? Somehow, later in life,. the combinatien of sounds and colors at a particular moment just sets hjm off, He's in New York City and a woman walks by him wearing .a multi-colored jacket as a taxi honks it's horn and a Salvation TAlENTEd l\:1usicAl AcTs TO plAy AT CHET'S. Good MONE)', GREAT AudiENCEs, LoTs of p~uN. CoNTACT JEssE \r~E MAN\ SHAfER ANyriiVIE AT X 5 5 9 9 foR dETAils Army guy is shaking his bell by one of those donation pots. It's strangely very familiar to him. He . just goes nuts .. Suddenly, some- one must die. He doesn't know why, all he knows is that sortie- one must die! \'Yeah Josh, you know · that toy I sent for Christmas? Josh, Lneed you to do something for me. I need you to bum the thing. Just do it, man! Don't ask ques_tions! Just do it!\ Like some scene from one of the Chi7d 's Play movies, this happy, noisy worm, still on tire, throws itself out the window to go wreak havoc on the city. It's rattle tail shaking after it. People are gonn-a die and it's iny fault, it's all my fault! What have' I done? You may be able t<J imagine the same scenario when you take into account the hoi iday craze of this past winter. Tickle Me Elmo and Cabbage Patch Kids that simulate eating were what every kid wanted. I think the damage is obvious. Tickle Me Elmo gurgles and shakes ·nke a little demon. Have you ever seen \The Exorcist\? Late at night in the little kid's room, he squeezes his new toy only to find that Satan lives in it. ·reople have alre·ady suffered from the Cabbage Patch Kids. That's proof of what I'm talking about here. The thing eats hair! What more evidence do you need? From now on, any I ittle kids I know are getting books for Christmas.

·mHe ffionror:Oit•ttsis January 16~· 1997 Page 11 · . · · · · Features .. ~ More Cliches Than You Can Shake a Stick At by Con or McKenzie • . seat, oh best be- Name the siitdarity between the loved, and I'll tell you about it. following names: a. Scarface, b. In a far-off land, sc:hools run Machine Gt:m Kelly, c. Billy the quite differently. A few days are Kid, d. Bon1rie and Clyde, e. allotted inNevemberfor students Union College. · to go hoine and enjoy That1ksgiv- Give up't' If you said thievery;·.· 'ihgwiththe·irfamily and friends. debauchery, or robbery, you After this short break, students guessed cotrectl y. Though return to school to 'finish the last Union's appearance on that list few weeks ofthe tenn. Though may have surprised some of you, Thanksgiving break isshort~upon in truth they've been robbing stu.. retum students greet their friends dents for years, ·in everything in some rnanner in order to ex- from the $28,000 cover charge to press friendly conc~rn.. Since the the $1.61 pricetagonthe Ginseng list of people to greet is usuaHy Tea in the C store. However, it is long, it becomes difficultto ere- not these small-time rackets that . ate original questions for every places them among this list of acquaintance. criminal gods. Ever since tlieir Back in the day, this created switch to the trimester system quite a problem for the residents they've been pulling one of the of far-off schools. If one knew greatest capers i-n history. Take a 30 people, one had to c<Jme up with an original question or greet- ing for each of them. This was quite taxing on the brains of these students .of yore, and left them with little bniin energy to study for exams. For years, these stu,. dents lived in brain-deaJ anguish as they prayed for a cure to their ailments. The gods, hearing the cries of the pitiful students, re- sponded and bestowed upon them cliches. The cliches sold like hotcakes and spread like wild-fire over the land. Now they're as American as apple pie. They're the jam in astudent' s jelly roll- . quite possibly the best thing since sliced bread. With cliches, no thought whatsoever is required to initiate a conversation {leaving precious brain cells for exams). Now students can return from Curious_George and Friends · by F.H.P. Contributing Writer home bronzer,' and no onewould be the wiser. Anyway, it was six thrilling weeks of quality home 'time ... alone.\.no friends to dis- tract us from-oh no! we didn't have work to do, it was interces- sion! food we gratefully left behind six weeks ago. It's (i)Hiy a matter of time befqre they reveal to us that we've been eating GradeD (but edible) meat all these years. We were also glad to be greeted once again by the arctic chi II each night in our bedrooms (even though the windows are closed). And by the way, speak- ing of windows, that noise you hear at night is the ill-fitting win- · break and greet their frienc:ls with- out the previous hardships. \So how was your .Turkey?\ \Great I can't believe ,J: ate so much\ (rl)bs tummy). Though you failed to c~mmu· nicate such a thing, you have ex,.. pressed interest in your oldfriend without wasting a brain ce II in the process. Students saved S<J many brain cells by using did1es that some of them became nearly as smart as the gods. This. .angered the gods, but none so muchas the gods of Union, Dartmouth~ and Hobart and William S.n1ith The gods met on mountain Olympus, and after they finished stlloking their ambrosia and drinkit'lg their nectar they came up with a. dia- bolical plan to keep more stock expressions to themselves. rhey called it \The trimester.sy-stem.\ The end result aiiowed them to send us home before Thatlksgiv- ing, not to retum until a week past New Years, thereby keeping a plethora of cliches tor them. selves. \So what?\ you may aslc.,«they took 'How wasyourturkey') 'and 'Did you have a nice ThatJksgiv- ing?' but we still have plet1ty left. Frankly, I don't care as ']()ng as they keep the tuition under 30 grand.\ The truth js, we don't -luve as many as you think. There is a .reason I placed Union i11 th~com­ pany ofgreatcrookslikeCapone and Kelly. Union's devious six week break effectively robos LIS of dozens oftime-saving and brain- relaxing cliches. Ever heard of that little holiday called Christ- mas? Toys aren't the only thing that Santa gives us-y a \on-s shot. Thatjoliy old elfliteraliys:liower us with cliches. \Was Santa good to you?\ ''Happy Holidays.\ \Joy to the World ... \ The grinch is a petty-thug in comparison to Union. Stunned by my story, you gasp, \Dear God, this is horrible; please say there isn't more!\ With creased brow and a worried look in my eye I say, \My child, this will hurt me more than it will hurt you, but I must tell you the dread- ful tale in its entirety.\ You know the faith called Ju- daism? Well, theytoohavealittle hoHday called Chanukah, and with it more than a few Yiddish cliches. By this time, tears have begun to well up in your eyes, but the truth cannot be affected by some saline on the cheeks. Union wanted to make sure that no stu- dent would ever be as smart as those foolish students of old. Wielding the power of cliches, Union drove a stake through the heart of our last bastion of empty speech and stole New Years. Ever since that final blow many years ago, Union has left its para- lyzed student body with one lonely cliche. \How was your break?\. The outlook for the future isn't bright, as the reign of trimester is showing no signs of subsiding. Our precious cliches will never really return until such a time. .However, now that you know the story of our ancestors you can keep their spirit a] ive by using their old ways. Next time you run into an old friend after break, ask them \How was your turkey?\ A las, they may never speak to you again, for the true rebel is often misunderstood. Well, here we are ba~k from another fun-filled winter break. Our conclusion: summer vaca- tion is definitely better tha.n our six week winter recess. But we n1ust say we loved returning to the good old campus ofUnion to see some of our luckier class- mates lfronzed from their restful and exotic vacations to the Car- ibbean while others of us busted ass juggling several jobs at vari- ous locations around the United States. Well at least we got to bond with our parents. If that's what youcan call fighting over every- thing from the car to dietary hab- its to the phone. Who co.uld for- get the famous line \That better be a local phone call!\ or the ever- popular \I don't care what you and your friends do at school! You're,at home now, remem-. ber'?\ As if we could forgeL. dows shaking in the wind .... not 1;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::;:::::==.:=;::::::===:::;;:==:::::::;:::::::;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::==::;- mportalll 11ews or people wllh ... Not that we real1y minded workingsohard, wedidn'twant to risk our lives on that sketchy cruise line anyway. And who needs a tan when you can just stay up north all winter in the snow? We couid still develop those fake tans by using an at- Now distan~ from home and back at Union, we realize how great it is to be here. We really missed getting up early, sitting through three hours of class and rushing to lunch, only to real. ize that !he_f.~()Q __is ... w~ll _:tl_'le sa_me UNION LAUNDRY. 561 NOTTST SCHENECTADY NY 12308 (ACROSS FRO• UNION COUEGEJ OPEN DAILY SAM TO 10:30PM FREE .DRYING TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS 8AMT03PM $1 PER. WASH. 5TH WASH . . .. FREE_ . 7 WASHES FOR $5, 28 WASHES FOR $20. MAL: (OA OEPOSfT IN.OUASUGGESllJNBOX) THIS- AD· TO UNION LA\.ttDBY FOR A FREE WASH. INCUJCIE )Q.;IIf NIAiEAND ACJORESS. your next door neighbors hittin it. Of all the things we missed about school, our white paper chums were what we missed the most. Who doesn'tlovethesmell of smoke pervading the hallways and our rooms? Not to mention ali of our wool sweaters, clothes, hair, pillowcases, blankets .... · And we REALLY missed the trek across campus in 2 degree · weather just to pick up a pack from Mohawk, our friendly neighborhoed grocer. And no party would be complete before we \borrowed\ at least tive ciga- rettes from random people we would never recognize in broad daylight. Speaking ofparties ... our hair has been nicely conditioned from ail the beer showers we've been taking. «Sorry sweetie\ just doesn't make it better. And it's comforting to know that when guys we don't know grab our asses at parties ... at least we don't live at the gym for nothing. Con~ trary to popular belief, grinding with someone at a party is in no way indicative of a late night hookup . Wei! it's safe to say that we can't have the best of both worlds, no matter how much we wish we could. Even though we · would like a bathtub in the com- mon bathroom and a nice home . cooked meal now and then, we must understand that along with the comforts o.f home come the petty annoyances and irritations oflifeathome. WeaU should be glad to be b&ck at Union-. so stop crying and SUCK IT UP!! SINUS PROBLEMS Do t,jOIA 11ave the foltowincf) \ ]acia/ pain in the sinus r;trea * Nasal eongestion * 5inl4s pain or pressure * Discolored nasal discharge IF YOU ARE 18 tl~ OLDER ANIJ CURRENTLY EXPERIENCING ANY OF THESE S1111PTOMS YOU MAY OUALIFY FOR P.ARTICIPJllii3H IN A SINUS RESrAIICH STUDY. Qualified participants receive the following: 1\ Dr. visit ond sflldy medication at no charge \ Monetory compellsation for time ond participation For more information call 452 .. 251 0 or 1-800·363·3464 ALLERGY & ASTllMA CENTER OF ALBANY MED 215 W\hington Ave. E>t, II). Albany. NY 12205 ~~ Albany Medical College Division of Allergy 1 & 2 Bedroom Apartments Starting at $400 a month +utilities. Walk-in closets and lots of storage space. Walking distance to Union campus and to Ellis fl()spital. Call 1-518-432-7574 Unfurnislted One-Bedroom Apartments For Rent ·Range $375-$425. All utilities included. CaB Salvatore Dental Offices, 9-5 JUn. weekdays at 393-3604. First, last, and se()urity deposit required. I ..

flag~ 12 Januat;y 16.~ 1997 WI~(: .C!hnt~orbicnsis ftrts & [ntertainment Larry Flynt vs. Madonna in a Box Offi.ce Biography Boxing Match ''The .Pwpfe vs. l.arry F~rnt \ Starrin~ IVood}· l!arrelson. C'ourtney• Lrn•c. Edward Norton. Rrett Hor,:e/son. rri:r;pin Glover. .!ame.'S· ('.r.omltwf! Directed hy Milos F'o,../1'1an. Rated!<.. ('olumhia Pictures. \Evita Starring fl.fadonna. A ntonf() Banderas. Jonathan Pryce. D.ircctcd hy A !an Parker Rated f»G. f!o!lywood Pic- tures. Every year around Christnu:stime, a biopic and an \eventpi<Jture\ come along that · are criti<:111Iy-praised and usually attract the: a..ttention ofthose folks at the Gol.<len Globes and the Academy-. last year's celebrated biopic ·~as Nixon, although that film was \nixed\ at Oscar time. This yeaf's entry: The People vs. Larry Fly'lt_ Fortunately, this film is a gre:at biography and easily walks awily as a compelling drama. Underthe direction of veteran filmmal<er Forman (One Flew Over t/;u Cuckoo's Nest), The People -v~. Larry Flynt opens on the ealiJ days of Flynt\s career, when he was the owner of a few strir cluhs in Cincinnati. Ohio I k :md his brother print 1/ust!er, a strip llewslcttcr c \for the man on the go,\ as r1 ynt puts it -- which immediately sells two mil 1 ion co pies and spawns the start of endless trials concerning the right to frt'espcech At this time, Flynt falls in love with a dancer in one of the cluhs, played hy nrst- timeactress Love in a demanding role which she handles with gusto. Norton plays Alan Issacman, Flynt's attorney throughout the years, who suf- fers through the pubtisher's tern ... per' and outspoken nature. A feature of Forman's tllms is his interest in casting non-actors with the pros. ln this film, you cannot tell the difference in act- ing: all cast members do more than competent jobs in bringing to life the uncertainties and frustrations associated with Flynt and his courtroom dealings. Playing Flynt's brother on-screen is Woody Harrelson's real-life brother, Brett, in his first acting role. Therefore, the chemistry be- tween them, is strong from tJ:11.~ start Larry Flynthirnscl fhas itn amusing cameo as the first judge to sentence the foul~m~Juthed pub I ishcr to pristm A long the way, Flynt's turbu- lent career crosses raths with Christian Moral Majority lcadn Jerry FalwelL a person whom Flynt parodies in a cartoGn puh- lished in Hustler Fonnan's inter- pretation of Falwell is ofa dopey rei igious !~malic - he sm ifes lov- Ing! y when he reads passages from the Bihk While he is never defeated in his efforts, Flynt is shot and p:1ralyzcd, causing ·his sqpportivc wife to turn to drugs. It is in these scenes ~with Flynt confined to a wheelchair and his wife slowly \VeariHg hcrselfdow11 --- thitt we sec the emotional toll Flynt's lifestyle has taken on them. Flynt also admits to his own ac- tions: \lfthe l.aw can~protect a scum bag !.ike me, it will protect every one of you,\ he tells a group ofreporters. Forman's direction is slick and ho Ids together what is essentially a frustrating series of courtroom trials. The tilm is excellent simply because it is not pretentious; rather, it is an .open-ended narra- tive of Flynt's career,.,which nei- ther glorifies nor condemns this publisher's views. It's up. to the· audience to hate or to stick up for this character, but chances are, you'll do both. This year's big Christmas ,..evet;~t picture\ is Evita, the much- hyped film adaptation ofthr An- drew Llovd Wchbcr-Tim Rice mu- sical that \vas a big success on Broadway ir~ the late I 970s Sec- itJg as how both L'vita and The I'eople vs l.arrv F~vnt were co\ writterl/rroduced hy ( )l.iwr Stone. one would l':\ pcet plenty 0 r (:;(o)ll- trovcrsy in this c1ne, too. Truth he told, Evita is a fJim too duH, too uninvolving,too an1hitious to be much of a winnt.:r. Erita, like-Jesus Christ.)'upcr\ star, is told all in song Nmv,t:nu- sicals work \Veil because, whcr~ ,the songs come on, they express characters' fcelir1gs in magical ways which stn1igbt dialogue lacks When the entire fihn, how- ever. is .a song, actual p'lot can be hard to convey Take; for in- s}al,lcc, the story of Argentinean actress Eva Peron. She lives the early part of her life daBgerously, until she strikes it big in lfi(}vies and then meets and marr:ies the country's president, Juan Peron (Pryce). Now, she becomes cham~ pion of the downtrodden and keeps her husband elevated po.: litically. Told through song, the story doesn't quite explain the historical context of the events being played out, such as the in~ explicable reasons. tor Eva' ssud- den illness and eventual death. Banderas, as a sort of floating narrator/representative, of the common people, is listed in the· closing credits simply as \Che.\ His singing is the most entertain- ing part of the whole movie, be- cause it· s so bad I lis pac mg and movernents -- i·ndced, ·all the characters' movem.cnts --· arc clumsily staged Did director Parker accident.rlly edit clips of re- hearsals into the aclu;.tl film' 1 One willn(.'vcfknow, butthis.isonc of the few n1usicals with a very ob- viously dubbed soundtrack. r tlr all the glitz and style, £,vita makes it hard to follow the lyrics with background explosions and action drowning out Madoiina · s pret1y little vo.icc. AsEva Peron, l'vladorwa docs a compdcnt job, and tries really, really hard to im~ press aud ien~;es with a rol c that's not trashy-erotic for once, but she should have to gi vejust an ounce morcol'powertoherpcrfbnnance. As .j t stands, her presence in the film i~ as sl.iglH as the expression on her face. She never comes . acrossasthereal starefthewhole thing. Overall, Evita is a grandiose idea that takes a giant misstep in the t1r:st ten minutes, and never fullyrecovers. Given thed10ice between sitting through a court- room drama about a porn maga- zine publisher or the FirstLady of Argentina, the choice should be obvious. ln this case, sticking with the pom is.apretty good idea. The People vs. Larry Flynt: **** (out of four) Ev.ita: ** (out of four) t ( s l t t J r l: c u t

Larry Flynt vse Madonna in a Box Office Biography Boxing Match .. The f>eoplc \'.\\. /.an:\' Flynt ·· .\tarring Woodr 1/arrl'lson. ( 'ourtney I.m·e. Fdward .\'orion. Hrellf !arrelson. r 'n.1pin < ;torcr. .lames ('rom well Oirected hy .Hi los l·'ormcm. Rated R. ( 'o/umhia Pictures. \Evita. .. ,)'tarring .tfadonna. Antonio Banderas. Jonathan Pryce. Directed hy A /an Parker. Rated /'(/. 1/ollywood Pic- tures. Every year around Christmastime. a hiopic and an \event picture\ come along that are critically-praised and usually attract the attention of those folks at the Golden Globes and the Academy. Last year's celebrated biopic was Nixon, although that film was \nixed\ at Oscar time. This year's entry: The People vs. Larry Flynt. Fortunately. this tilm is a great biography and easily walks away as a compelling drama. Under the direction of veteran filmmaker Forman (One Flew Over the Cuckoo 's Nest), The People vs. Larry Flynt opens on the early days of Flynt's career, \\hen he was the owner of a lc\\ stnp cluhs 111 C1ncmnati. Ohio I k and his hrothcr print !lust/a. a strip ne\vsletter- - '·h>r the man on the go,\' as Flvnt puts 1t - \vhich immediately sells two mil- lion copies und spawns the start of endless triuls concerning the right to free speech At this time. Flynt falls in love with a dancer in one of the cl u hs. played hv first- time actress Love in a demanding role which she handles with gusto. Norton plays A I an I ssacman, Flynt's attorney throughout the years, who suf- fers through the publisher's tem- per and outspoken nature. i\ tcature ofForman 's films is his interest i11 casting non-actors with the pros. In this film, you cannot tell the difference in act- ing: all cast members do more than competent jobs in bringing to life the uncertainties and frustrations associated with Flynt and his courtroom dealings. Playing Flynt's brother on-screen is Woody Harrelson's real-life brother, Brett, in his tirst acting role Therefore, the chemistry be- tween them. is strong from the start. l.arry Flynt hi msclf has an amusing cameo as the first judge to sentence the foul-mouthed publisher to prison /\long the way. Flvnt 's turhu- lent career crosses paths \\ tth Christian Mom! Majority leader Jerrv h!lwe!L a person whom Flvnt rarodiCS in a cartoon puh- lishcd in I fusller Fonnan' sinter- pretation ofFal well is of a dorcv relig1ous fanatic --he smiles lo\- mg,ly \\hen he reads passages from the Bihk While he is never defeated in his efforts. Flynt is sh<lt and paralyzed. causing his supportive wife to turn to drugs. It is in these scenes- with Flynt confined to a wheelchair and his wit'c slowlv wearing hcrselfdown -that we see the e111otional toll Flynt's lifestyle has taken on them. Flynt also admits to his own ac- tions: \If the law can protect a scumbag like me, it will protect every one of you,~' he tells a group of reporters Fonnan 'sdirectio11 is slick and holds together what is essentially a frustrating series of courtroom trials. The film is excellent simply because it is not pretentious; rather, it is an.open-ended narra- tive of Flynt's career. which nei- ther glorifies nor co11demns this publisher's views. It's up to the audience to hate or to stick up for this character, but chances are, you 'II do both. This year's big Christmas \event picture\ is Evita,the much- •d ' Open Auditions are being held at the Skidmore. Theater on Thursday an<l Friday, Janu~ ary 23 and 24, from 6:30 to l 0:00 PM in the Studio Theater in the JanetKingllom Bernhani Theater, Skidmore College, Saratoga Springs, NY The production season includes the world premiere ofTHE IMP OF SlMPLI CITY by Erik Ehn, directed by Artist- in~Residence Scott Feldshet; and Franz Kafka's THE TRIAL adapted and directed by Larry Opitz. Call (518) 584-5000, ext. 2344 for an appointment and futther infonnation. hyped film adaptation ofthc An- drew Llo~·d Webber-Tim Rice mu- sical that was a hig success on Broad\\ay in the late 1970s See- ing as how hoth b·ita and !'l1e 1\'op/e \'S /.arry Flynt were co- \\Tittcn/produced hy ( )1 i ver Stone. one would expect plenty of con- troversv 111 thi~ one. too Truth he told. h·ita 1s a film too dulL too uninvolvmg. too ambitious to he much of a\\ mncr b·iw. l1ke-.!L'sus ( 'hn.1·t .\uper- star. is told all1n song Nmv, mu- sicals work \Vel I because. when the songs come orL they exrrcss characters' feelings in magical ways which straight dialogue lacks When the entire film. how- ever. is a song. actual plot can he hard to convey Take. for in- stance. the story of Argentinean actress Eva Peron. She lives the early part of her life dangerously, until she strikes it big in movies and then meets and marries the country's president, Juan Peron (Pryce) Now, she becomes cham- pion of the downtrodden and keeps her husband elevated po- litically. Told through song, the story doesn't quite explain the historical context of the events being played out, such as the in- explicable reasons for Eva's sud- den illness and eventual death. Banderas. as a sort of floating narrator/representative of the common people. is I isted in the closing credits simply as \Che.\ His singing is the most entertain- ing part of the whole movie, be- SATURDA Y,JANUARY 25 ATTHEALBANYCENTERGALLERIES Patti LttPone on Broadway comes to Proctor's Theatre at 8 PM. Tony Award-winning Patti LuPone both grips and amuses the audience as her gutsy voice fills the house and her spoken material will make you roar with laughter. · · Patti LuPone lights up the stage as ber ot;~e,..woman show proves to be truly unforget•, table. Lu-Pone ·brings down the house with songs f:rorn the rol¢s tfl~t :tnflde her ftarnous: .· \Don't Cry For Me, Argentina,\ ~·I Dreamed a Dream'' and '\I Get a Klek Oat ofY ~u.'\ J~e production also incfudes songs from Sunset Boutevard and Oliver! Tlie 'titst.act is a Co cause it's so bad His pacmgand movements - indeed. all the characters' movements - arc clumsily staged Did director Parker accidentally edit clips of re- hearsals into the actual film') One will never knm>v. hut this is onl?uf the few musicals with a very llh- \ iously dubbed soundtrack For all the glitz and style. Evita makes 1t hard to follow the lyrics With background explosions and action drowning out Madonna-s pretty I ittle voice As Eva Per()ll, Madonna does a competent .J<lh, and tries really, really hard to im- press audiences with a role th<:tt 's not trashy-erotic for once. but she should have to give just an ounce more of power to her perfonnance As it stands. her presence in the film is as slight as the expression on her face. She never comes across as the real star of the whole thing. Overall, £vita is a grandiose idea that takes a giant misstep in the first ten minutes, and never fully recovers. Given the choice between sitting through a collrt- room drama about a porn m aga- zine pub! isher or the First Lady of Argentina, the choice should be obvious. In this case, sticking witb the porn is a pretty good idea. The People vs. Larry Flynt: ** * * (outoffour) £vita: ** (out offour) l I I I! !1 p 11 I' •I ! ' I\ I I ·' I [, I• )r '· ,. I' .. I' ~ ', I' li d \· i i r ,: i• I tl a ti g h II A c f l) II 1 0 h P Sl ~~ Ul I I· it hi II' B L R til 01 li.. R St u t i I In bi tr S( pr re Ct Si ot lll tn

Title . ''·''\. , . , . · Romeo iet Dabel ,.J;raq~{lfl~QRtl., Capitol Winter Movie Checklist by. ~arry Pask.a, · Artt Editor -. The Screening Room was busy this Winter break catching up on all the latest Hollywood has to .of- fer. Here's the progno-sis: silver screen sightings were generally good, a marked improvement from last year's lousy fare. (Although instead of another Grumpy Ota Men sequel,. you did have the chance to see the lame-brained My Fellow Americans). Here's a short A-B-C review of some of the big films which opened since NovcmhL~r (All rat- ings are out of four stars) Beavis and Butt-head Do America MTV's animated losers make it onto a bigger screen than usual, but without the music videos to propel them along, 1he story is spread thinly across an 80-minute feature film. The \plot\: Beavis and Butt-head's TV is stolen, and the duo race cross-cou11try to find it. Expect all the H & B bathroom humor to be in full force, includ- ing an extended sketcll featuring Beavis as the great .. Comholio.\ Listen for Unsolved Mysteries· Robert Stack as the stern voice of the FBI agent whose specialty is ordenng up cavity searches. Fun tor latl.s; others beware. * * 'file Crucible Dantd Day-Ltwis a11d Winu)la Ryder star m Arthur Miller's s~.:rc~n adaptatiOn of his hit play. Under Nicholas Hyntrter ·s direc- tion, the film features outstand· mg pcrlorinances set agamst the backdrop ofthe Salem witchcraft tnal 111 17th-century Massachu- setts. Long but wmpellmg; good pruduct·ion and costume designs recreate Sakm as a poor fanmng community with expert detail. * * * ter tunnel con~ecting New York and New Jer~ey (like there are hllndreds out ttlere) with a few sur- vivors. of a11 e::xplosion which sealed off all ille entrances and exits. Chock-full ofspecial effects and clai.lstro.pn()bic melodrama~ but also ful1 of characters and confusing scenarios you really ·could care less about. Amy Brenneman (lf~at, Fear) plays the closest to thi.ng to a love interest for Stallone. W()rks as an HBO Original Movie, \ot a $70 million action-~xtravag~tnza. * * l/2 The Eng/ish Patient Ralph Fienll!es stars as a pilot whose plane -:i:s shot down, and he is ,nursed ba'(:k to health by Kristin ScottTiloinas, all the while r~memberin g tfte love he lost alm1gthe way P'assionate, moy- ing. and also ve1y sad; far and away one of the year's most ro- mantic and fi.1iestfilms William DaFoe t;o-stars: as a renegade sol- dier. ***1/2 Everyone Says I Love l'ou Woody Alle11 'S. new film is both an admitted attempt at reviving the musical cotne<lyand an experi\ ment in sending-up hokey m usi-. cals. In avoidimg A Hen's ten- dency to wallo-w in his own neu- rotic self, the ~t()ry ( ahout, among other iove stib>-rlots, Allen still wanting his w,ife, Goldie Ha\vn, after she has married /\Ian A1da) takes the time- tn he cute, tight, and h11hhly Tfs s'veetly romantic in a cneesy way Ndliing is more hu- morous than WCllching Allen break out in song f\f 'tTl Through with Love\) in a hotel mom, or hearing Drew 11arrymo-re whisper the sad classic \I Ca11Drcam Can't J?\ .in her hedroom. !\ refreshing change of pace from Allen's past films~ righ1 bel1ind Annie r fall as one of his best works. *** 1/2 Jerry Maguire him start his own \ag(lncy and both soon discover wllat it really means to live. This ·sl1allow de- scription does not sum up the little intricacies ofthis tilm, a fine 'effort by writer-directorCameron Crowe that is so fresl1 in jts ap- proach that the characters seem real and believable. Cuba Gooding, Jr. is a stamlout as the one client Cruise retains after be- ing fired. A definite winner and a must-see. ***1/2 Jingle All the Way Yes. it's as had as it looks, hut endearing and In ugh -o11t-loud funny at the same titne Al1-nuld Schwarzenegger returns to com~ eqy (and surpasses his role in .Junior) as an overworked dad who is late in his Christmas shop- ping. He and Sinbadbattlc each other for the season's most wanted toy. Turbo- Ma11. The film mirrors this shopping, season's craze, Tickle-Me-Ehm>, a little too closely. Phil Hartman is hilarious to watch as the neighbor who tries IQ make pathetic advances on Arnold's wife. The ending is sappy, but for some strange rea- son, this lame excuse for a movie plot kills an aft em o()n pretty nicely One question rernains·. did they really need to spenrl $75 mil- lion to make this? ** Mars Attaclis! Tun Burton's answt.:r lo Jf).j, an $80 million homag~: and recreation of classic 1950s alit::tl tnvaswn mov1~s. lheJ1lm als(J boasts the longest hst of fir sHalt: support- ing actors ever seea, mdudmg Jack Nicholson as the Prcs1dent and a Las Vegas bu~i ncssman, G lcnn Close as the First Lady, P1erce Brosnan a:s a sctcnttst ... even crooner Tom June~! Clever, ccrtamly ongmal, the story, how- ever, leaves you wtth a strange fcdmg by the closing·crcLilts. A htg, lou~, frantiC storythat mam- tains one consiskncy through- out: its unpredictability. * ** Daylight What separates Sylvester Tom Cruis.e is a sports age!lt The Mirror Has stillcome out with a pretty medio- cre movie. Streisand plays a Co- lumbia University English profes- sor whQ can't find love; then, her sister places a singles ad for her and dopey Math professor Jeff Bti<lges answers it, looking tor a companion, not a lover, after a stri11goftailed romances. If you believe these characters, you' II love the predicaments which fol~ low, especially when Streisand tries to get her husband to sleep witld1er. If yot~ don't, then see- ing Lauren Ba,ca\1 resurr.~cted on the silver screen will he about th~: primar.. thing hl)ltfing ~our inta· est Strc1samJ ~mg:, the olmo\.- ious end tHic thctnL: wtlh Brya11 Arl~tns, Jeaturing lyrics so cl:iched you could rhyme them in your slt:t.:.p. * * Mother A lhertRrooks directs himselfin this c<1medv a hout et nmn go in~ thmugh a mid-life crisis 1\fte-r several tailed marriages. he de- cides to move hack home with his mother and start his life over. Debbie Reynolds, as Brooks' mor:n, is great, and Brooks puts on his best Woody Allen-for-the- m~sses act Still. all the flmi1iest scet'les were in the previews. **I I 2 Ransnm r>ircC\tm Ron llow;mi :1nct nct()r Mel C. ihson twn llollvwood hen\y.weights who can do no wm11g, team up thr th i\ intense and smpensC'- filled thriller .. with more than a few snrprises ilp its sleeve Gihson is the president of an airline companv who mustde- cide whether to give money to the group vvhich has kidnapped l1is son or to fight the had gu) s head- on There are of extraordinaf) actors here- Clary Sinise as a cop, Delroy I .indo as an FB l agent, and Rene Rue; so as Gihson 's wile M~ onlv C()Jnpliant· Rt1sso is thor- oughly wasted -·doesl1't she have a say in the proceedings? *** way to do it. Space Jam is short, and completely wi purpose. In tact, the story is thin, it could have been ..,.,., .• r,,,p, by a 7-year-old in Creative ing class. Still, the concept Michael Jordan (in an acting but which will unlikely earn hi an Oscar) and Bugs Bunny tling animated JTI()nsters for trol of Earth in a basketball'\\\'t\\' is pretty amusing. Bill Murray Wayne Knight (ofJurassic and TV's Seirifeld) add c \aughstothemi:x., Kids won't the iu-_iokcs as tiumy as grown ups, though. \l111d1 probahl) ac · couuts li.>r \'lih) I 0/ LJa/nwtw11:. scored over It at the box oH'Ice. **1/2 Star Tre-k: ' First Co11tact I Picard sits in the Captam ·~chair,! but R1ker mows mt0 the d1rcctur ·~1 cha1r, as Jun<~Lh~n hakci> i>Jts a~ the true helm tor the e1ghth /i'~A voyage. Ocaming any sort o character development Jilto.outc space, th1s film ts more hke an ex tended TV show, with the Bor rett~rning to alter Earth's history. The Enterprtse must (get this novel1dea!) travel back m tune t stop the1n. Conventional, but also very eerie and dark, with some tin special efl'ects. (Some graphi scenes ma) have cau:sed it to b PC:i-13, \\hCiea.'>ull uthc1 hd lihml had gone PG hdi>tt:) :\ tkfin119 improvement over Star Trek. ven-1 CJ'Ullu:l:., ~lthu~gh one \-\.omlc1~1 v .. hy The: .\c:x.l_ Ge:llt:~~llunncc~cJI to be pulled lro1n I\ 111 the 111~~ place * * I /2 ' I I Potential ()scar: F.vitaJ Ghnsts of Mis.'\i<;sippi. ! 'm Vn~ Rappaport. The Pcnpfc vs !.an)l Pfvnt. Shine . .!ern· I . . I Waste of an 1 Admission Fee: jl The Evening Star, My Fe!lm Americans, One Fine Day, 101 nafamatians. The Preacher\- W!fe Stallone's new flick from all his who comes up with a manifesto Two Faces Space Jain others is that this time you can on the trade that gets him fired. If · 1 lfy<1u have to make a 90-mmutc HonorableMentions: d d h . d 1 Sl · Along the way, fle meets Renee . you lgn?re t lC negative hype un erstan IS . Ia ogue. Y •s Zwellln er a V'\loman who he! 5 Barbra Stre1sand got for tnaking Nike!McOona.ld'scommer~i~lnnd Michael, Scream, Set it Off ~~a:~~~~nL a~~u::::~-~~:~~~~:L'~i.\:tkl:~~~~~~~~ 1 ~V2~l.c~l .:)~::Tf~ 1 !~~~t_:s~~~~~~&~n: )~~,~-J~{:~~~:~~~~~~: ~c.:~~~~:~~~::~~~~_.~~~~:.·~ ~.~~:L•-·- ~- ~· ~~~ _J _r -~- ·~ 1

'l I tl I I I i 'I ·i I ' ·~ ' • • 1 • • • • • ' • e.age ·'13 ·.·.January 16: . ·.- . ( '· . ', . ' . . ·' .. \ ... Chart. Toppers ,. . ·A Quick Look at What's Entertaining America (Week ofDecember JO- January 5) Titltf · · l.Michael 2. Jerry Maguire 3. Scr®,Jn 4. 10 l;Dalmatlons .· s. OneFine~t\cY · · Title ··' 1. Sugat.86wt 2.Sein:feld ·, . .,.,•. .60Minutes Friends 5.ER ' -~ <, Grpss (in millions) $12.1 $1~;o· $1'0.0 $?;!.·.·· .;:·. i6;1'· . Gross to date $52.7 $83.0 $39.1 $12L8 $322 • · PJ~~ktt,i fif1 JJJillt(/ni}'t .. '.··.:~¥1St· week i$~· .. ' .·.·. ·. . -~ 24:6 2t~'' 2to 19,7 .,_· --.~ t z 5 3 'fop Five Albu~ Sales Artist 1. No Doubt 2.Soundtrack 3. Celit1e Dion 4.Soundtrack 5. Sotmdtrack 'fltle 1. TheRock 2. A Time to Kill 3. Matilda 4. TheN utty Professor S.lndependenreDay Title Tragic Kingdom Romeo and Juliet Falling Into You The Preacher's Wife Space Jam Label Trauma!Interscope Capitol 550 Music/Epic Arista Warner/Atlantic Distributor Hollywood Wamer .LasJ week I TriStar 7 MCAIUniversal 4 Fox 5 -· A!J informati{)n courtesy Entertainment Weekly Winter Movie Checklist by Larry Paska, Arts Editor The Screening Room was busy this Winter break catching up on all the latest Hollywood has to of- ter. Here'stheprognosis: silver screen sightings were generally good. a marked improvement from last year's lousy fare. (Although instead of another Grumpy Old ,'4,fen sequel. you did have the chance to see the lame-brained My Fellow Americans). I I ere's a short A-B-C review of some of the big films which opened since November. (All rat- ings arc out of f(mr stars) Beavis and Butt-head Do America MTV's ammated losers make it onto a b1gger screen than usuaL hut \\'ithout the music videos to propel them along. the story is spread thinly across an 80-minutc feature film. The '\plot\ Beavis and Butt-head's TV is stolen. and the duo race cross-country to lind it Expect all the B & E1 hath room humor to he in full f(Jrcc. includ- ing an extended sketch katurmg Beav1s as the great ··cornholio\ L1sten f(x Unsolved A4ysteries · Robert Stack as the stern vo1ce of the FBI agent \\hose specmltv is ordermg up cav1ty searches. Fun for fans. others beware. ** The Crucible Dan1el Da)-L~\\IS and Winona Ryder star 111 Arthur M1ller's screen adaptatiOn ofhis hit play. Under Nicholas Hyntner's direc- tion. the film features outstand- mg performances set against the backdrop of the Salem witchcraft trial in 17th-century Massachu- setts. Long but compelling: good production and costume designs recreate Salem as a poor fanning communitywllhcxpert detail. *** Daylight What separates Sylvester Stallone's new f11ck from all his others is that this time vou can understand his dmlogue Slv is trapped 111 an unnamed underwa- ' ' . ter tunnel connecting New York and New Jersey (like there are hundreds outthere) with a few sur- vivors of an explosion which sealed off all the entrances and exits. Chock-thll of special effects and claustrophobic melodrama. but also full of characters and confusing scenarios you really could care less about. Amy Brenneman (Heat, Fear) plays the closest to thing to a love interest for Stallone. Works as an HBO Original Movie, not a $70 million action-extravaganza * * 1/2 The English Patient Ralph Ficnncs stars as a pilot whose plane is shot down, and he is nursed hack to health hy Kristin Scott Thomas, all the while remembering the love he lost along the way Passionate. mov- ing. and also very sad. far and awa~ one nf the year ·s most ro- mantic and finest films Wilham DaFoe co-stars as a renegade sol- dier ***1/2 Everyone Says I Love }'t-Ju Woody Allen's new film IS both an adm1tted attempt at reviVing the mus1cal comedy and an cxpen- ment in sending-up hokey musi- cals In avoiding /\!len's ten- dencY to wallow 111 his own neu- rotic sci f, the story (about. among other love sub-plots. /\lien still wanting his wife. Goldie Ha\vn. afkr she has married Alan Aida) tnkes the time to he cute. light. and huhhly. It's sweetly romantic in a cheesy way. Nothing is more hu- morous than watching Allen break out in song ('Tm Through with Love\) in a hotel room, or hearing Drew Barrymore whisper the sad classic \'I Can Dream Can't P\ in her bedroom. A refreshing change or pace from Allen's past films- right behind A nme /!all as one ofhis best works. ***I /2 Jerry Maguire Tom Cruise is a sports agent who comes up with a manifesto on the trade that gets him fired Along the way, he meets Renee /\\dllnger. a woman who helps i ' him start his own '\agency.\ and both soon discover what it rca lly means to live This shallow de- scription docs not sum up the little intricacies orth is film. a fi nc -etTort by writer-director Cameron Crowe that is so fresh in .its ap- proach that the characters seem real and believable. Cuba Gooding, Jr. is a standout as the one client Cruise retains after he- ing fired. A definite winner and a must-see. *** lf2 Jingle All the Way Yes. it's as had as it looks. but endearing and laugh-out-loud funny at the same t1111e /\h-nuld Schwarzenegger returns to com- edy (and surpasses his role in Junwr) as an O\ crworkcd dad who is late in his Christmas shop- ping I Ic and Sin had hattie each other for the ~cason's most \\anted to) I urbo-Man. The film mmors th1s shopp1ng seaso11 s craze. Tlckle-Me-l:hno. a little too closely Phllllartmall 1s h1lanous to watch as the nc1ghhor who tncs to make pathet 1c ad\ anccs on Arnold's wife The end1ng 1s sappy. hut for some strange rea- son. th1s lame excuse tin a llHWIC plot kills an afternoon prctt\ nu.:el~ ( >nc qucst1on rema111s d 1d they really need to spend 'b7~ mil- lion to make this') ** Mar.\· Attack\·! Tun Burton's answer to /l).f. un $!{0 million homage a11d recreation of classic I 950s alien mvas1un mov1cs. The film also buasb the longest list of fJr)t-ratc support- lllg actors ever st:en. mclud 111g Jack N ichulson as the Pres1de11t and a Las Vegas businessma11, Glenn Close as the First Lady. Pierce Brosnan as a scientist ... even crooner Tom Jones' Clever. certainly ongmal. the story. how- evt:r, leaves you w1th a strange fedinghythcclosingcredits. A b1g, loud, frantic story that mam- tains one consistency thrmtgh- out: its unpredictability. ** * The Mirror H a~· Two Faces Ifyou Ignore the ncgatJ\c h~pe Barbra Strcisand got for makn1~ herself a lavish star m the film. )llll • •i ' 1 ' I still come out w1th a pretty medio- cre movie Streisand plays a Co- lumbia l Jnivers1ty Fnglish profes- sor who can·t find love. then. her sister places a singles ad j()r her and dopey Math professor Jeff Bridges answers it. look mg f(Jr a companwn, not a lover. after a string of tailed romances Ifyou believe these characters, ~ou'll love the predicaments \\hich ft>l- low. espec1all~ when Stre1sand tries to get her husband to sleep with her. If vou don't. then see- ing Lauren Baca\1 resurrected nn the silver screen \I ill he about the prunan thmg lloldrng \om rntl'r- eo.,t Strc1sanJ :-lllgs thL· obno\- wus end trtle theme 11 1th Bry.an Adams. featuring Iynes so cliched you could rhyme them 111 'our sleep. * * Mother Albert Bwoks direl't\ hlln..,clfm this etlllll'lh about a man go111g thrnugh a mrd-lil'c cns1s .\tier se\era] nuJed lllarrlil,!.!CS. he de- cides to move had home'' 1th h1s mother and start lw. l1 fe mer lkbb1e Rn nokb. a-. Broub · mom. 1s great. and Brooko., pub on IllS best IXood\ .. \lkn-l'or-thL·- maso.,eo., act Still. all the funnlt'st 'oCL'nL'O., \\ L'[L' Ill tiJL' plt:\ IL'I\ S * + ,, 2 Rtlll.WJffl Director Rnn llo\\<ml ami adnr Mel (iihson. 1\\o llolh\\nod h c a \·nve 1 g h t s who can do no wrong. team up f(H tl!i, intt.·nst.• and \uspen<;e-filled thriller.\ 1th more thnn a fL'\\ surpnsl''- up 11\ sleeve (lihsnn 1s the president of an airline company\\ ho must de- cide whether to giYe money to the group which has kidnapped Ius son or to fight the bad guys head- on There are of extrann.llllal'\ actors here- ( iar~ S 11\ISL' a\ a cup. I )elroy I .111do as an FBI agent. and f{cne Russo as Clibson \ wi ti: :vi\ onlv compliant· Russo is thor- oughlv \\asted -·doesn't she have a sa~ 111 the proceedmgs' 1 *** Space Jan1 11\ou han.' tn maht.• a l)O-mmuiL· Nikc/f\kDonald\ L'l'lllllll'rclal and put It on the b1g SLrl't.'ll. th1s I!'. the way to do 1t. .C.,'pacc Jam 1s loud .I short. and eomplctelv WlthnuQ . I purpose. In nlct, the story IS Slj. thm. 1t co.uld have lK·en sketched hy a 7-year-old in CreatJVt? Wnt ing class Still. the concept o Michael Jordan ( m an acting de- but \'vh1ch will unlikely earn hun an Oscar) and Bugs Bunnv bat- tling annnated monsters Jor con trol oft:arth in a basketball match is pretty amusing. Bill Murra~ and Wayne Knight (ofJurusslL' Pad and TV's Scu?feld) add cheap \a\lghs to tht: mix K1ds won't fmd\ rile lll-.Jof..t:s as fium.t as gro\\lli upo.,. though. \\hrdJ probabl.\ ac-; counts hH \\ h,\ I fJ J J >a/nwflllll.\1 :-.cured o\er ll at the box off1ce 1 ** 112 . Star Trek: First Contact Pl~:ard s 1ts 111 the l' aptam ·s chcur 1 hut R1ker llltlves 1nto the til rector :-i ch<IIL as Jonathan !-rakes o.,Jts at the true helm for the c1g.hth li'ek \o~age. Heammg. all\ sort oil character dcveJnpment llllll Olll.c!l space. thh tilm1s more like an exJ tl'nded TV siHm. \\ rth thC' Bor~ return 111~ tn alter h1rth ·, lw;ton i The hJIL'rrri\L' mu-;t i ~t·t th1~; IHl\L'IJdl'a 1 l travl'! hack 111 tnne ll~ -;tnp them Convent ronal. but a !sol \en t'ene aml dark.\\ rth :-Pille tinei -;peL·Ial dTects ( St'lllC graphrq sct.:lll'S lllll) have caused It to be; I l( i-1 \. '' hcrl'<b all 11li1L·1 lid\ fihn~ 1 had gonL· Pt i befure ) :\ tkfllllll'i llllpmVL'Illent m cr Slur J;-,·k c it'll.-; t'IU(/IJ/1.\, altlHJllgiJ UIIC' \\LIIldC!~i \\11\ Fhc \',·xr ( rl'flt'l'tll/0/llll'CdL'JI 111 k pulled from T\' 111 the f1rs~ place ** 1:2 Potential Oscar: Fnra.: (/hosts 1!( .\fiss/SSlflfll. I'm \'o~ Rappcq)()rf. The fleoJd,· rs l urnl F~rm .. \'h me . .Jan \Vastc of an Admission Fee: The /;'1'1!11/llg Star .. tfv Fello111 . lmt'f'lt·ans. One Fmt' I lLIJ'. /()/: . ' H on o rab lc l\'lt~n tio n s:

..c- / 'Wlp,~ OO:uucnrbicnsis • Janua.ry 16, 1997 • Page 14 _ . · . Advertisements. NOT LOOKING FORWARD TO TAKING THE MCAT OR DAT ??? Register now for an intensive, inter.active weekend workshop geared- toward helping you understand and prepare for the MCAT or DAT. January 18th & 19th-· 9:30am-5:30pm-Old Chapel Registration fee: $25. 00 (waiver available) Space is limited.- You must register in advance! Register .in the Health Professi~os Office Bailey Hall 101 For further information, call X6300 THE .MCAT JUST GOT· MUCH EASIER TO ·SWALLOW. Now that Tlte Princeton Review and Hyperlearni~tg nave joined forces,. you can put your MCAT wonies to rest. We've - teame& up to offer you the fin~st. most comprehensive MCAT preparation available. By combining Hyperlearning~s science~ intensive approach with The Princeton Review's personal. res~t-o_nented approach we've created the ultimate MCAT pt:escription. + Superior science and verbal reviews + 15 individual furl-length practice exams + Revolutionary test· taking strategies • Flexible course scheduling Classes start soon .. so be sure to call us in the morning. # f!;p;;,·=l;;ar:;;;,7g Medical Dtvtston of THE PRINCETON REVIEW (800) 2;.REVIEW • www.revlew.eeJm HOWTOBETTER PREPARE STUDENTS TO TAKE . STANDARDIZED TESTS. LIKE THE MCAT OR DA.T On Friday afternoon JalrUtiry 17th, Dr. Aftab Hassan will offer an interacHve workshop for faculty who would like to learn more about entrance ·exams for pre-professsional schools. He will focus his work~hop en ways faculty can enc_oura,ge more active learning and help students adopt skills that will prepare them for these challenging entrance ex:~. .. ....: . . Date: Janwry 17th Tim~: 3.5:30pm · Plac~: 01.4 Cb~pel Open. to aD fatuity! Please R~S. V..P; @X6.300 CaU_I;ire--m~iiQaror:Wei$sewitbuiy qQe5tioiui; • ~ ;-. CDC Update~ .... TON I 6 HT: Marty Sands •g 3, Chairman, will discuss Career Op- ponuniti~ with Sands Brothers on Wall Street at 7pm in ~lano Lounge. All students are irwited to at~end. TON 16fiT! Nvrthw~stemMutual Life, Ythamwillholdan ln- fonnation Session to discuss Internship OpplJrtunities at 7pm in the Career Development. Center. .. IIJtNTEJI AECRUlTlN& -DEROtlrtE=. Iomorrow.Jan. 11, . . .· resumes ftJr On-Campus Re<:ruiting and Resume Referral are due· by 5pm to the:CDC. A<Ktit.IDns totlleOn·Campus Recroitin~ Ss:hedu}e: Commercial Union ~nsurance~ Hatris RF Communications. Northwestern Mutual/Baird,. and Sands Brothers & Co .• Ltd. ,· toM:-.1-IlR:II-W:· Special Drop-In Hours at tfle CDC from lOam t6 5pm for restJme eri_tiques. :- M-arine Carps f·nfo Table: Jan. 22 i\n me CC Alrium, i0-3pm. NYC Alumni/Student RecepUCJn, Thurs., Jan 23. o- 7:30pm ill New York City. Seniors: sign up at the CDC by Monday. Janyary 2U if you plan to attend. NYC RECRUITING DAY: January 24 in New York City for pre-selectecl students.

Brian ·~ When are you gettittg your skis? - Rob an~ T Rob - I !rope you feel better soon (and start showing up for class. - T Oiue - I love yott rat. Did you fiud any . good looking Grecians? Loveto Katie atldBlythe too. Love;.Liss Alex- Life isn't the sarnewi~h out you. We hope Africa is grtlat- We heard England was! Love ya!- Laurel and Brenda Chet's Presents: Happy Birthday John Czjaka, Ja11eUe J-larnick, and Jed Taxel. - Love 3rd Fl oot Llama -Bring out the d.eadl Don't get swamped at the MED. -11te girls at 1068 , . Learn How To Roe Dog- I miss knocking ond1e windowsillatuight. I.'m at aloss without you. Hablas lotsofEspanol. Love, AD SWFISO a good time be:f()re graduation. Contact Concordy. No freaks. Bartend To Alex - I hope you're having a great time Zimbabwe. - Love, Tatima Jen C.- Our thoughts.an{j.wisltes are with you. Keep smiling! Love -Adrian attd ~ob To the Brothers ofSigllla Chi- Thanks for the borat Christmas party We had a blast. Love, the sisters of Gamma Phi Beta. incl. official certification· January 19, 20, 21 6-10 PM To Allison- Katie, andDawiloc 1niss yon. - L()ve,. Liss Yaddy - I missed being the go<lrnotlter of your children. Welcome home! -Love, Ace To Heather - We love you lots.mtd miss you. Try not to get too bumt. · Love, Liss and Liza Congratul~tions to the new Concordiensis section Editors: Chris Leone (Layout Editor), Raquel Millman (Co-Feature Edi1or}, Amy DiBattista and Jennifer Pelose (C()-Copy Editors), and Aileen Quigley(Ass·istant News Editor). tgn-Up during normal Chet's hours this week on Thursday and Friday Course costs $25 - Love Tony and Ace Welcome Travis and .Joan.na to third floor · · 1HE#3 SCIIOOLIN . ou· ·. ··. C , __ ··.NIRY. FOR .51'UDENT .. SATISFACTION WestemNewEngland Open House- _. College..SchooLofLaw .. for-Pr.,.,...-+ive· was ranked #3 for student La St ~~· satisfaction accordintt t() . W Uuen S the latest National Juri~;tf If you're considering Princeton Review survey going to law school, you of 28,000 law students. can find out everything The atmosphere is both you need to know about intellectually rigorous admissions, financial aid, and student-friendly. legal careers, and our The faculty love to Wlique student-centered teach an.dt:P,ey have Pt:9grams at o~r up- outst~d#lg ac~demic . coming open house. and professional credentials. In fact, the professors were ranked in the top 25% for publication volume :in the most recent Chicago Kent Law Reukw faculty scholarship survey. .. Western New England College School of Law Open House for ,prospective Students . I · Saturday, .January 25, 1-4 pm s. ·Prestley Blatca Law Center· ·· 1215·Wilbraham.Road Springfield, Massachusetts For -reserva~ions.aad more information call: . I : 800~782•8665 J Visit our Web Sit~ at http://www.law.wnec.edu DeseriRose Consignment Shop 17,26 Un,ion Street, Nis.ka.yuna Quality Clothing c;tt a Fraction of the Original Price. 20% Off with Student ID (Not to be used with any other discount) I.E.F. DEADLINE The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in tw<1 categories -- st\ldent-initiated research projects and \educa- tioitallyinnovative projects\ is February 20, ·1997. Proposals for ·student-initiated research projects must .have · tile written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to super- vise the proje~;:t. TI1e proposals should be submitted to the Dean's . Office (SI 00, Sde!lCe & Engineering Building) on fonns available :tflere. · : Similarly, membersof~beColleg~.cmmmmity wbolmve.\~c;l.u::;~. · , 'C~tionally innovative\ptoj)osa:ls shotild submit tluim ·to the ~aitie~ · . ()ffice on fonns available there. Fonns for Faculty Research Prqjects are also available in the Dean's Office(S 100). Guidelineswith respectto the I.E. F. are available in the Dean's .Office. Inquiries about I.E.F.,.the guidelines, or the propo_sa_I dea..<;l.=- . .Jine should b~ di.rected t9 Marga:r~t_D.»,l!on, f\Q!Oi~li$]JLve Assis: !ant to the Dea11 .of Arts & Sciences. When preparing budgets, p1ease remember that per diem rates are n,onnally limited to $50-85 , per day. Transportation costs should also refl.t;:cq!J,~ best rates available. Students who are planning to do intet:vlews Jni'ist indicate that arrangements have already been m~e: Jfyoui· ·•-e~rch in- clu<les work with human subject~, t~e~dlui ~r<$'d~;!l ;n~st have . pre1im'inary approval from the Human 'Subjects Resear~h Committee • b¢fore it can be funded by tire· Subcou'tJcll· en Undergraduate Re- re~h. ' *'********** ******'l'**\'******'********* *** * ******** FACULTY RESEARCH DEADLINE l11e Faculty Development Committee·i~ liow solicitim~; pi·o-. posals for faculty research and scholarship actimties. Appti~tip11s . · and guidelines are available in Dean Sorum's Office (S-1 oq,-S&E). · TI!e deadline for submission of proposals is February 2(), 1997, Questions conceming the Faculty Research Fund shouldbe directed to Dean Sorum. When prepating'budgets, please; remein- ber that per diem rates are nol111ally lilnitdd to $5Qt&5 ,per gp.y. Trans- .- p011ation should also reflect the best rates available. \\ · e-m ales/ females The College Network of the Capital· Region ---------·-·--http: II · www.crisny.org/ -singles ~ew professional- Ma in Inter- national Affairs or lntcrame:rican . Studies prepares y:ou rapidly for · exciting careers: 0 environmental studies :J public he~l!h :J gt,vernment ·'If your research includes work with htu11an subjects, thetJ the ·, proposals must bave preliminary appr.o~al front th~ Hmnan'~ubjects, ·' Research Committee before it can be funded by the Facu-lty Devel- :J lnternatiomil organizations :J international media. • business Learn valuable analytic skills from ecRnornics anq the social opme':tt <:::ommittee. - ;;. · -~ · \' '• Are you outgoing, uptieai, and excltM aboutlJnio~? · · ·Would you like to learn more about your College.' ~ Do you enjoy meeting new peoPle? .. · . APPLY now to become a U .N'·JTOr 1 N\1' C· 0 1 1 LL1 ua'r. ~o- \ ~~·· . ·. Jl \ . - ~ ~ ll . ' j \It\. GUIDE (Gatekeeper Honorary Society) Applications are available in the Admissions Offi~ ' : sciences. Complete this intensive multi· disciplinary degree in 12 to 1; . mont.hs .. while living in a fasci- nating mtemational city. Free deta1ls. GRAD~TE S(:HOOL OF INTERNATION.Ai. STUDIES Coral Gables, FL 33124·3010 305-284-4173; Fa:t: 305-284-!406 New UBI.: http:/iwww.miami.eduJgsis

Dutchmen Football Wins UCAA Upstate Title · by Frank Rossi Sttt/fWtiter If you failed to see your Union College Fighting Dutchmen at Bailey Field this season, you missed history in the making. You missed greatgames (like the 24-22 win against Hobart), and you missed some of the greatest players in Union's history play- ing their final season for Union. It is too late to seethem now, but here we can .look back at the Fighting Dutchmen's exciting 9- 1 season. ECAC Northwest Champs On November23, Union faced the undefeated Salve Regina Seahawkson Bailey Field for the ECAC Northwest Championship. For the Dutchmen, this game seemed to be a consolation game as the NCAA East Region play- off board snubbed the then 8-1 Dutchmen by refusing to give them a bid int<J the NCAA play- offs. Shuron Morton continued to dominated. He gained 42 yards and scored his team-high ninth touchdown on a two-yard run, giving theDutchmen a 14-6lead. In the fourth quarter, Roger Egbert booted two-straight 42- yard fie.Jd goals, the second after Matt Braunwart recovered a Salve Regina fumble during a kickoff. The 20-6 lead became doubtful for Union a:s Salve Regina scored a touchdown with I :44 remaining, but they failed to capture the ensuing onsides kick. Senior running back Justin Bourque put the icing on the cake for Union as he scored a 20-yard touchdown at the end ofthe game, for the second-straight year this season with 70 points, and he was selected to the American Football Coaches Association All-Star Team, GTE/CoSIDA National Academic All-American Team, Football Gazette All-American First Team, ECAC Upstate New York All-Star Team, and Hewlett-Packard All-American Third Team. After a great final game, Egbert credited his success to his teammates. \It's all due to the offense, They played great this year, and I credit my success to them.\ Shuron Morton broke the regu- lar~season rushing record with 1,287 yards rushing. He won the downs for the Dutchmen, but Bourque's biggest contribution was has blocking ability in the backfield. A powerful back, Bourque would often lend a great lead block for Shuron Morton. Finally on offense, Mike Prudente, a starter at offensive tackle this season, has one mote year of eligibility remaining, Often overlooked, the offensive line with Prudente and Football Gazette East Region First Team selection Rob Harrington pro- tected the quarterback well, al- lowing only 23 sacks this season in ten games, and opened up sev- eral holes for Union's potent run- ning game. Plymouth State Athletic Direc- tor Steve Bamford, the overseer of the committee, stated before the Salve Regina game that Union's 31-61 oss to Coast Guard on Homecoming Weekend com- bined with his theory that the tJCAA is a we~k football confer- ence was why Union did not get a playoff spot The argument Union made was simple: Rowan was 7-2, Coast Guard was 8-2, and Union was 8-1 at the end of the season, so Union, who played comparable opponents to tl10se which Coast Guard and Rowan played, deserved a spot. After Union's stunning come-from-be- hind victory against Carnegie Mellon on November 16, the committee voted Union down the next day. Senior captain Bill Mellleisen anll Coacll Jolrn Audino accept a Cllampionsllip trophy (Laurel Runra!TC). A range of emotions was still being felt by the Dutchmen as the Seahawks were able to take the opening kickoff 66 y~rds for a field goal. The 3-0 score woke the Dutchmen up as senior nm- ning back Sln.tron Morton an- swered with 3 I yards and senior wide· receiver Peter Buscemi caught a 23-yard Tom McKeown pass at the Salve Regina 9. McKeown capped the-driye with a touchdown pass to Matt Brau11wart, giv· ing the Dutchmen a 7-3lead. The Seahawks kicked another field goal to close out the half down 7-6 In the second half, Union's giving Union the victory, 26-13. Tl1e ECAC Northwest Champi- onship is Union's third ECAC title in its three attempts, and it is the senior class's second ECAC . victory. A Senior Class to Remember In four seasons as Union Dutchmen, this season's senior class has put together some un- believable numbers. They put together a record of 35-6 (win- ning 85.4 percent of their games), they gained postseason play each of the four seasons (twice in 'the NCAA playotfs), and the defense has been nationally ranked for most of the four year~, finishing at seventh in total defense this season. Let's look at someofthe honors achieved this season by the seniors. Place-kicker Roger Egbert be- came the leading scorer for Union . .· . MVP in his final playoff game, made the Football Gazette East Region Second Team. and he was selected as co-MVP of the ECAC Upstate New York All-Star Team. After running in the shad- ows of Chris frving and Kojo Attah., Morton made history in one season as a rushi11g starter. Peter Buscemi, wllq was in- jured early in the season, played well as a two-year s.tarter. He caught 44 passes for 751 yards and eight tou~hdowns in his ca- reer, and he also threw for two touchdowns. Buscemi, who still has a year of eligibility remain- ing, said about his final game, \We have a lot of pride, and win- ning on your home field for the last game you're going to play is a nice way to walk Ollt.\ Justin Bourque, a three-year· starter for the Dutchmen at run- ning back, tallied nine touch- On defense, fwo cornerbacks,· Elton Lee and Charrod 'Riley, have finished their tenure as Dutchmen. Lee was a two-year letter winner, and he shii'led in the Salve Regina game with a key in- terception in the first half. Riley had 100 tackles in his four years as a starter, and he. swatted Hobart's final atteinpt to beat Union earlier this season. At de_fei1siv~ end: Denton Randolph, who als·o has one year of eligibility remaining, started for two years. and amassed 1 03 tackles and 17 sacks. This sea- son, he led the team with eleven sacks and forced two fumbles. What the statistics do not show is Denton's quarterback hurries his ability to force bad passes. Last but not least, the \Final Four., They are grouped together quite on purpose. John Phenix was a two-year letterwinner on special teams, but most impor- tantly, he provided a great deal of leadership as a linebacker play- ing in the shadows of many great Union linebackers. He did not quit, and after his final game, Phenix said,. \Bobby and Mario are great players and I understand that and I accepted it. It's just good to win for four years \ Bobby and Mar>io are of comse Hobby Champlain and Mario Maltese. Champlain led the Dutchmen this season with 106 tackles, at'ld he had three fumble recoveries and three interceptions. He single-handedly turned the Al- bany game around by catching an Albany pitch in the backfield and scoring a touchdown. Mario Maltese was second on the team with 100 tackles, led the team last year in tackles, and he added four pass deflections and t11ree interceptions. Both started for two seasons and Chantplain stated, ··our standards are so high here.· Sometimes when you're winning~ you forget that you're wi1ming ifyou don't blow a team ou.t. ff you're winning, you're winning. This· program has been . great to me for the four years.\ Maltese agreed. \My experience here was well spent. .. ten times more than I ever imagined. It's given !Tie discipline, and it's the best experience I've ever had.\ Bill rvfehl:eiseo, a two-year starter at free safety, is another player who wm be identified by his first.·name.when speaking ab{)ut Dutchmen Football. Mehleisen had 147 tackles in his career, and this season, he had three interceptions. Mehteisen wasboth,happy and emotional af- ter tb~ Salve Regina game. \It's s(l!1tething th'at you really can't · describe: It'~ 'something that all .of our lives have been dedicated to. You realty learn a lot from the g~nne, and for it to be over so soon, reciily~ the emotions I just cat1not describe.\ · These final three also racked postseason honors as Champlain made the Football Ga-zette East Region First Team and the Up- state New York Honor Roll. Maltese was selected to the Sec- ondTeam ofthe Football Gazette and the GTE/Academic All- American East Region First Team. He was joined by Mehleisen on the GTE first Team. Cross Country Ron1ps in Division III Regionals by Jason Everett Staff Writer On November 9th, the Union men's and women'sCross-Coun- try teams traveled to Canandaigua, New York to com- pete in the NCAA Division III Regional Qualifiers. In what Coach Casey deemed \[a] race of patience and strat- egy,\ the men started off the day running 5 miles (8,000 meters) over the difficult trails. There were 25 teams in the race. The men were fortunate in hav- itlg a starting position on the ex- treme left of the starting line. and hence used this position to their advantage. They were able to avoid being \boxed in\ behind fellow competitors and were able to avoid large pools of water in addition to the madness of a \post-season\ cross-country race start. The men looked to validate their season and their surprising finish atthe State Championships the prior week. The men looked to beat perennial power SUNY Binghamton for the second time in a week, as well as to continue its season-long dominance of Hamilton. Leading the way for the men, in his last Union race, was senior captain Nick Conway. Conway finished in 23rd place with a time of28:21. Running with a re-discovered aggressiveness, junior David Kunselman finished 55th in 29:08. Finishing 64t11 in 29:20 wasjunior Jay Goldberg. Close behind in 66th was sophomore Peter Flynn in29:23. Rounding out the top five was senior Steve McCann. McCann, wasakeymemberthroughoutthe season and finished in 80th place with a time of29:50. The varsity was rou11ded off by freshman Kenny Scott in 1 05thwith 31 :06 and sophomore Hugh Meyer 112th with 3 t : 15. Overall, the men finshed 1Oth out of 25 teams; beating Vassar by 36 points, Bingharhton by 71 points, and Hamilton by 159 points. In addition to the mei1's tre- mendous ptrfonnance, the women's team concluded their season on a high note. The women raced 3.1 miles (5,000m) over the ·drenched muddy trail course. Like the men, the women were able to take advantage of a favorable starting line position. Leading the way for the women was ju:iior Kelly Jamieson. Jamieson finished 84th out of 137 with a time of 23:32. Next in was talet1ted freshman Suzanne Hoyer finishing 93rd in 23.:54. Third in Q8th place was sopho- more Molly Hood. Sophomore Katie MacDowell finished 1 0 1st · in 24:18. Rounding out the top fiv.e was senior Sara Mcintosh in 107th with atimeof24:41. Coach Casey commented that ~'both the men and women did a masterful job of staying on their feet and fighting for spots it1 the Ia!lt halfmile.\ As far as the teams strategy, he said, ••My suggestion to go out slow proved to bewrong .... [We] di<ln't hurt ourselves with a con- servative star;\

Sports - _ 'ill!£ Qioucorbiensis • January 16, 1997 • Page 17. UniOn Remains 7th in ECAC Despite Big Win Continuedjrorn Page 20 Satterlund picked up his 12th point of the season. Harvard mounted an intense attack, scor- it:tg one goal tocutthe Union lead to two, but Koenig remained finn in goal turn.ing away a uwnber of shots in the closing minutes en route to his 35 save performance and Union's first victory against Harvard since February 26th _ I 995. Monteith echoed the mood of many of the players following the game, saying \[The game] means a lot. It's Harvard. Any- time you beat a team with the reputation they have, it feels pretty good. There was a little extra incentive because they re- -ally outplayed us the last time, and we ]ooked flat.\ Coming off an outstanding per- formance the night before, the DLttchmen traveled to snowy r>rovidertce, Rhode Island to battle the 1-10-1 Brown Bears. Union had the chance to increase their ECAC record to 6-4-1 and extend their winning streak to seven games. However, things did not go as planned, as the Dutchmen looked shaky from the opening face-off The Dutchmen came out looking flat, not taking the body, and were unable to gen- erate any offense, managing only seven shots on Brown goaltend-er Clutrlie Moxllam ( 1'1) applies pressure ill tile crea.~·l!; (Lfwt\el Ruma/TC) Brian Audette. Union lost 1 I of 19 face-.offs in the opening period and at the end of the first twenty m-inutes found themselves facing a 2...;0 deficit. It appeared that the Dutchmen had come alive offensively early in the second period as Jamie Antoine got a good shot in on Audette who quickly covered the rebound, thwartingtheDutchmen attack. Union out-shotBrown20- 7 during that period but failed to crash the net. \On a lot of oppor- tunities, we didn't have a guy in front of the net trying to screen We didn't have anyone there for rebounds . .[Audette] made a lot ofsaves, but we made it easy 011 him. We didn 'i make it as toug11 as we usually have,\ said Captai11 Andrew W.iJl. The Bears took a 3-0 lead at 8:03 of the period as Marty Clapton lined up a wrist shot from the slot, beating Koenig to the glove side. Two minutes later, Monteith got his second :goal of the weekend. Taking a Ford pass, Monteith drove to the 11et and. fired a wrist shot past Audette to cut the Brown lead to 3-I. For Ford, the assist added c;s total points to his Union ca- reer. In the third period, Prentice got his secend goal of the weekend a11d seventh of the season. rord registered another assist giving him 96 total points. With that point, the senior winger passed Chris Albert, who had 95 points, to become Union's Di visio11 I all- time scorer. The goal pulled Union within one, but with Koenig on the bench for a sixth skater, Brown scored an empty net goal to ice the victory, ending Union's six-game winning streak and evening Union's ECAC record at 5-5-I. The loss dropped Union back to seventhplacc in the ECAC. \We take two points off of a team that's very good, and then we come out lackadaisical. It basicaltly nullified what we did [Friday] night,'' said Prentice The loss serves as a reminder of theProvidence/Merriinack home weekend earlier 111 the year when Union defeated thcn-IOth-m-the- nation Providence 2-0 and pre- ceded to drop a 3-2 decision to a weaker Merrimack team. The 11-8-1 Dutchmen travel to RPI Saturday night to battle the Engineers at 7:00_ BETWEEN THE PIPES Union's best line of the week- end featured Russ Monteith, John Sicinski, and Chris Ford. The trio registered nine points in the two games. Jay Prentice had two goals and one assist to in- crease his point scoring streak to seven games_ Men's Basketball Second Best Sports Weekly Update by Frank Rossi Staff Writer ForUnion's Men's Basketball team, 13 was not a lucky num- ber. After winning their prelhni ... 11ary game in the 13th Annual Sig Makofski/Union College Invita- tiollal Tournament, the Dutchmen were outsized and out-rebounded by the Ithaca College Bombers in the championship game, gaining the Dutchmen second place in Head Coach Robert Montana's first Union Invitational Touma- rnelit after a 70-65 loss. · The tournament started out slow as Kings C01lege squared off against Ithaca. Kings was never in the game, as they scored their firstfield goal nearly 13 minutes into the first half. At half-time,- tl1e score was 34-14 in favor of the Bombers_ Kings outscored [ thaca by one point in the second half; but it was much too little to I ate as Ithaca advanced to the championship game by the score of62-43. Friday's second game pitted the Unio11 Dutchmen against theN ew York Maritime Privateers. Both teams began the tournament with I<Jsing records, Union at l-5 and Maritime at 2-5, so something had t<J give. Rob Groelz scored20 of the Dutchmen's 33 first-half points, single~handedly leading tlae Dutchmen to an eight-point half-time lead. He finished with 28 points. The second half brought more of the same from the Dutchmen as Mark Traver added twelve points and Zena Woldeyesus scored nine point~ in the.game to give Union a 74-58 victory. Shola Richards add.ed nine re- bounds, four blocks, and four steals ii1 the win, helping to break the Dutchmen's four -game losing streak. In Saturday's consolation game, the New York Maritime Privateers beat Kings College for third place in the tournament. Kings played a much better game, but after taking a one-point lead .on the Privateers midway through the second half, the Privateers woke up and won the defensive battle, 55-47. Michael Nukk, who scored 22 against Union on Fri- day night for the Privateers, and Ron Mcintyre, Ki]1g's only big man inside, each made the all- tournament tearh. In the championship game, Union started fast against the Ithaca Bombers as the Dutchmen hit two quick three-pointers for the Dutchmen. However, Union found themselves down 17-14 after seven minutes. Union jun- ior guard Rob TeCarr added seven points in the next five min- utes, leading the Dutchmen on a 12-2 run and a 26-19 lead late in the half The Dutchmen have been plagued all season by large runs by opponents around half-time, and Saturday_ was no exception. The Bombers closed the first half on a 15-2 run, giving them a 3 7- 30 over the Dutchmen at half- time. After falling to a double-digit deficit, Union put together an- other run, this time led by fresh- .man Mark Traver. The freshman started the run with a three-point play and added a three-point field goal to help the Dutchmen achieve their final lead of the ballgame, 49-48. The late play of Ithaca's 6'9\ center Eric Pitcher was too much for the Dutchmen late in the game, even as Rob TeCarr added nine more points for the Dutch- men in the final eleven minutes oftl1e game. Union out-shot the Bombers by a full ten percent, but Kevin Ha- vens pulled down 20 rebounds · · (nine offensive) and four players~ including Pitcher, broke double digits for the Bombers. Union was out-rebounded 49-29 in the game as Ithaca pulled down 27 offense boards. · On Union's side, TeCarrended the game with 16 points and five rebounds, Zena Woldeyesus added 13 points and four boards~ . and Mark Traver had ten points. (/( 'AA Women's Uasketlw/1 . P\ayer oftbc \yeck Amy Hitz (Sr., F, Acto11 Mass) P'oured in 23 points, a tournamc;nt record, in a loss to Smith i1i the championship of the Union Invitational, and also set the tourtla- mcnt record for rebounds (22), as she was named to the All- Tournament team. Honor Roll Leah Oliveri (Fr., F, Rochester, NY) Set tournament records at the Union Invitational, as she had 22 points and 14 rebounds in a first-rouJ1d win over Manhattanville_ ECAC Hockey Leaders Scoring .J<ihn Sicinsld -20 games, I 2 goals, 8 assists, 20 points Brent Ozarowski -20 games, 5 goals, 13 assists, 18 points Union falls to 2-6 with the 70-65 Jr;;:;:=:;;;:;;;;;;;;;:;.;;;;:;;:;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;::;;;;;;;;;:;:=========;;;;;;=:;;;;;::~;;:;:; loss and failed to win their own . tournament for the third-straight year. Ithaca's Rob Nadler was named the toumament MVP as he added 14 points for the 6-2 Bombers Saturday and helped hold Kings down in the first game. His teammate, Kevin Ha- vens, who was one rebound short · of Mike Smith's tournament record (Hamilton, 1990), made the all-tournament team. For the Dutchmen, Rob Groelz and Zena Woldeyesus were the choices for the all-tournament team. Groelz, who led the Dutch- men !n points, rebounds, assists, steals, and fre~- throw percentage coming into the tournament, fin- ished the weekend with a total of 37 points and seven rebounds. Woldeyesus had 22 points, five rebounds, and eight assists. The Union Dutchmen begin a long road trip at Colby .. !!nd Bowdoin this weekend, and the11 they travel to RPI and Skidmore on January 24 and 25. Their next' home game is on January 31 as they face Hamilton at 8 p.m in Memorial Field House. Hockey 1/18-@ RPI _Women's Hockey 1/18-@ Clarkson 1122- SKIDMORE Men's Basl\.etball 1/18-@ Colby 1/19-@ Bowdoin 1/21 -@Utica Women's Basketball 1/18 -@Colby Ill 9 - @ Bowdoin 1/22- RUSSELL SAGE Swimming 1/18- HARTWICK & TRINITY 1/22 ~ RPI Indoor Track 1118- HAMfL TON 7:00 3:00 3:00 3:00 3:00 7:00 6:00 1:00 7:00 2:00 4:00 1.00 --

Page 18 ' 1i'JlpJ Q.hntn1roirusis • January 16~ 1997 · · · Sports ~----~~ Dutchwomen Lose in Championship by Josh Adams Staff Writer On Sunday, in the champiol'l· ship round of the Union Invita· tiona!, the Union Dutchwomen feH to the Pioneers ofSmith Col- lege, 57-52. The Dutchwomen were paced by Amy Hitz's 23 points and 9 rebounds, and Tonya Capparello 's ll points, including one three pointer that drew Union within one with 2 minutes to play, and 8 boards. Ui1ion was already down by 20, 13-3, at the 9:05 mark of the first, and they continued to play catch- up ever since. The DLttchwomen missed their first five field goals, and tumed the ball over 9 times in that span. Crystal Campaigne was hot in the early going, scor- ing 6 of Smith's I J points. The women were able to mount a small comeback behind the hot hand of Amy Hitz. She scored six straight points to pul'l Union within 8, 19-11, with S minutes to go in the first. The one thing that kept the Dutchwomen in the ga1ne was their defense. They closed off the I ane to Smith's centers, and forced them to take long and sometimes off-balanced shots. Union guard Mary Shultz played a fantastic defensive game, with 5 steals, four of which came in the second half. Her nine steals in a two game spa11 broke the pre- vious record of' eight. Coach Mary Ellen Burt was able to get her team tired up at half:time, and, as a result. the Indy Cagers went on an 18-8 run which tied the game at 3 1 at 13 01 of the second. Hitz and Capparello combined for 10 points in that span However. Smith was able to mount a comeback. going on a An{v Dtwglt€lrty SlJ(lf.'> ahlJve tile competition during women' .o; ,\'ide f!.l Vnioll lnvitatio'nttl (L11urie Kilwclrner/I'C) 12-2 run that ate up 6 minutes o( tile clock. Srnitl1 's Meegan Edminstonwasllot from thecor- ners, going 3-9 from the floor and 6-7 from the free-throw line. Brandyn Sa!aderson. the Tourney MVP. was cltitch down the stretch going 4-5 fr()m the floor and grab- bing 8 rebollnds. In the previous game against Manhattenville, Freshman Leah OJiveiri stole the show with 22 points and 14 boards. Oliveiri • ~ied both the .scoring and rebound- ing record for a single game in the Union Invite. Amy Hitz contrib- uted 14 points and J 3 re~6u~1ds and Tara Blagyspoured in 10. · In all, 5 recordswere either bro- ken or ti.ed-Oiiveiri's 22 points in the semis. agai.nst Manhattenville, Shpltz's.5.~>tea1s, 9 in.both games, Hitz' 22 boards in 2 gatn~s,.breaking tbe old record by two. Shultz also set another record with 9 assists in both games, and Hitz again got hernanie in the record books with 23 points in a single game, break- ing the record tied by a teammate. Swimming Fails to Make Waves Continued from hack page freshman standout Heather Weisenfluh and defending na- tional champion Brian Field set new school records in the !-meter springboard com petition Though the team took their first loss of the season, Coach Judy Wolfe had little to complain about, \Our swimmers and divers perfonned very, very well. The support we received from every- one who came out to see us re- ally got the swimmers physically and mentally charged up for the meet. Unfortunately, Williams just had a stronger team.\ Cap- tain Karen Watts could still draw positives from the loss, \Even in defeat the two teams never gave up and will look forward to the remainder of the season and to winning the New York State meet in February.\ There were still winners from the meet: Senior Mike Humphreys won the .200 freestyle, and Kevin Makarowski won both the 200 individual med- · ley andthe200 yard butterfly. On the Woinen 's side, powerful .Jackie Crane won the 1-000 · freestyle while .Florida native ..... '!\ .. -:-- . ; ., ... \ l .. ; .. l' ll'enevieve Grilflam takes to tile water to co11test tlte powerjitl Williams sWillllirers. (Lm~rie Kirsclui'erl TC) Kelen Barr wo11 the l 00 free. As for the remainder of the season, tile team looks to go without further defeat, as the men 'steam did last year, winning their final six tneets to end tlie season 7-1. As the Freshman mature and the Seniors gear up,.. for their final state ·meet, the Dutchrnen.:have their sites set on bringing back another winning trophy. When National Championship rolls around in March you can be sure Union will be looking to improve on the men's Jrd place finish and the women's 17th place fi11ish and to a rematCh against the Williams.Ephs. As fo.r now,. Senior distance freestyler Allison McKee put it best, saying, ''We can look at this meet as a tneasuring.stick to see · how far we need. :to come to be , successful at the State and Na- tional fneet at the end ofthe sea- son, becausethat' s why we work so hard ·in practice, and that's what we are ultimately coneerned witll.'.': Indoor Track Preview by Jason Everett Staff Writer The 1997 Indoor Track season · kicks off this Saturday at Memo- rial Field House in a dual meet • againstHami1ton College. With the large t1:1mout this sea- son, the team looks allead, anx- ious to improve on Jas.t year-s . breaktlwougb season. In particu .. lar, the team would like to dupli- cate the ~uccess it had at the . UCAA and State Championships. The men's team has approxi- mately 25 members and will be · hard-pressed to rep! ace Mike · Leding and Setll Rudin, whose departures were due to gradua- • tion, and senior Nick CGnwa:y and sophomore Peter Flynn, who were both on terins abroad. De- spite their absences, the men's team has several key returnjng members in addition to numerous talented underclassmen joining the team and other returning members. The 011!1y returning members who competed last year at states o~ the 6th place team are state champion in the 200 Dave Riggi (55m & 200),junior JayGoldberg (1500 & 5000), and junior Mike Martin (triple jump). Despite the lack of many com- petitors with experience at the state level, Coach Larry Cottrell is \very optimistic and excited, despite losing two of the. best middle distance runners [to tenn 's abroad.]\ Cottrell went on to comment that he is \'very im- pressed with tl1e new athletes\ this year. Coach Aldo Nardiello added that he is looking for the team of\young freshman, sopho- . mores and seasoned veteran.s\ to cant in ue where the team left off after the \best states ever\ for Union_ Both the men's and women's teams have something this year which they have lacked in the past- balance and n urn bers. With close to 50 In embers, tllis is the largest indoor track team at Union in more than a generation. • In additioH, the team has a bal- ance which it has lacked in the past. It appears that tl1e team wi II be able to \cover'' all of the events,. which is also a first. The balance is clearly evident in the sheer numbers of the many men · and,..women sprinters, mid-dis- tance runners, and field_p~I;.\son­ neL The women '.steam has an un- precedented 20 members this • year. Included in' this are many mid·distance runners. jumpers, and tield athletes, and for the tirst time in a while, a substantial num- ber of sprinters. The sp.rinter core · is prin1arily Irtade up of eager un- derclassmen and some novice up- perclassmen .. Leading the way for the women are a core of talented sophomores who have enjoyed success during the freshman year both in cross- country and in track. Despite the new crop ofteam mem hers, it re- mains to be seen who will replace the:depm-ted Amelia Audette who excelled li1 the distance events.

S ot·ts . . · . · 'ill! c Q.InncorX!iettzis • Januar 16, 1997 • Pa e 19 Settli1zg tile Score . ~-~---~---- ~-----... Cinderella's De.ad! Did She Ever Exist? by Chris Leone Sports Editor ' playoffs for aiT eternity and then some. When t::he Buc's entered the league, they were never given Tl~e clock has sounded twelve thebenefits ofthetwo recent ex- on the great fans of Jacksonville parisions. and Carolina. Cinderella will not When the Carol:ina Panthers be in attendance -when the hig andtheJacksonvilleJaguars,our dance occurs. ten days from now current Cinderella, were to enter in New Orleans. When vve wefe the league back before the 1994 al1 younger and maypea bit wiser, draft, they were granted a gift fairy tales were supposed to end from the magical wizard Com- \happily ever after., ButaJas, fair missioner Paul Taglibue. There citizens. of these great southern was. a customary expansion draft, metropolises, all is wei'], your given to all expansion teams i1i all team~ _have done more in two · leagues~ where. Cinderella could yearsthan IIlost expansion teams choose old, discarded clothing hopetoo, or have ever hoped, to from ·the evi-l enemies that made accomplish. Maybe this has not up the kingd<lm. But our fair been the two versions of· Cinderella waS' also given extra Cinderella that we. have all chances to shop at the yearly sale, watched over the past month. known to us colhinoners as the Recently, the NFL has clone its NFLdtaft. verybest to promote its image. It Yes, these tearns made some tells fans, through a new ad camn good choices, Jacl<sonville tackle paign, \to feel the power .. '' It is Tony Bosse! iand Carolina quar- impossible forthe fans in Tampa terback Kerry Colli11s are sure to Bay to \feel the power\ of their be stars for a long time. How- orange and white clad gi·ants. ever, whered<>es i1 say anywhere commonly referred to as the Buc- in sports that one team, or two .iil caneers. What power is there this case, deserve preferential when your hometown team has treatment. It is simple to ratio- notseen the promised land of the nalize, except in the case of the ' . New York Jets wllere no one has the- r:ight,.·to as.sUine, that with more cliances'to create success there are more,chances to be· suc- cessfuL The NFI:: has been the only leagueto grant an expansion team with extra picks~ Fans,ofthe NBA 's Vancouvef Grizzlies and Toronto Raptors would most likely sell their sottls for sueh an opportunity to vacate the prover- bial expansion cefhu. Extra draft picks were not the only reason forthe success of our two expansion heroes~ Revenue .sharing with the small market teams wouldallowfotfree agent spending. The salary cap that was also introduced helped these small market teams cam pete with the Dallas Cowboys and San Francisco 49er's. The Panthers based thi.s years success ·Oil a fear-.invoking de- fense. This defense was ranked among the league readers and bolsten~d by mostl.y free agent signing's. The Panthers had the capital resources, unlike many expansion small market teams, to sign four l'nl'tior free .agent play- ers. Kevin Green, Sam Mills, and Lamar L!lthon combined to de- velop into one of the best group ofliJ?ebackers that money could buy. While ~x.-New York Giant Mike Fox. played an important role againsttl1etun. This was the league's oldest and most experi- enced defense, a quality that is not found 011 an ordinary expansion team. While Pan.thers built throu~h free agency, the Jaguars have cre- ated a team out of young gifted and talent players ~nixed with a sporadic free agent. Detensive gems Kevin Hardy and Tony Brackens complemented the reli- able Ex-Phoenix Cardinal Clyde Simmons. When the draft gifts were granted. there was very little com- plaining frRmaroundthe league. H is not rriy purpos~ to take the NFL to task for what may be viewed as a questionable gins. The purpose ofthis isto question why everyone m ustrefer to these pseudo-expansion teams as \Cinderella.\ Please do not lead yourself to b~l ieve that this has been a happy t~1iry talc: we have all been fooled by one of the wicked step sisters in disguise. * * * * * * * * * IfJacksonville had gone to the Super Bowl would New Orleans Kick~r Morton. Anderson have received a ring? Does he at least receive the playoffborl'us? l am so happy that I was not in school to crucifY the recently sainted Dallas wide receiver Michael Irving. At least 1 will not have to apologize fm this scan- dal. Can I be Tiger Woods? For those who need an explanation they should realize that the next Michael Jordan is to be found on the PG A tour. Furthermore, everything that is so wro11gin the world of sports, is so right with golf. I only wish Unionoffered eitherGolf,orCad- dyingas m~jors, but then it would probably contain card courses. Do you get that feeling that the Florida Panthers are not going to linish much better than third in the Atlantic Division? In what is clearly designed to be a marketing l-ip off The New York Rangers unveiled their hid- eous altemativcjerseys last week. Union GoalieTrevor_Koenig; BeW\are of the Shark by Frank RQ.ssi Staff Writer If you were asked to interview the top college ice-hockey goalie in the U.S., you would probably be ready to travel to an Ivy League or Hockey East school to meet with him. That is not the case, however, as A\meri ca' s hot- test goalie plays in the unlikely location of Schenectady, NY at UnionCollege. · Junior Trevor Koenig has led the Ut1ion Skating Dutchmen throu,ghthree of Union's six sea- sons in the ECAC, and each year he has improved. During his first two seasons, Koenig !:lllowed an averageof3.40 goals each game, but nearly halfway thr01,1gh his Junior season, he has a goals- against average of2.13, easily the best in the nation. Koenig at- tributes his success to mat~:~rity and a well-united team. \We're growing as a :team, and we come prep~red for every game. You learn something new every year, and I'm just trying to keep build- ing on that.\ A Major Col1:1.f!#:titor On the Ice Koenig, a native of Edmonton, Alberta, is not a large goalie at 5' 1 0\ and 170 pounds, but his agility and preparation have kept him at the center of opponents' attention. Koenig helped lead the D1:1tchmen to their first league- weekend sweep in three seasons on January 3rd and 4th with a strong 2-1 victory against Yale and a 6A victory against a strong Princeton team. The differing scores reflect the differing styles of those two opponents, but Koenig says this diversity does not phase him. \Every game is different, but you try to prep yourself the same for each game and hope it works out for the best.\ The Princeton victory gave Koenig his twentieth collegiate win, making him only the sev- enth Uryien goalie to achieve . ·twenty wins: Koenig bel.ieves that statistic may be his largest achievement so far. ccAI'l statis- tics aside, it's always nice. to get thewin. I think thosearethe1r10st importantnmnbers; ~nd to get a twentieth victory is ·a great ac- com pHshment. \' ,WiMing•is'V~ry important to Koenigaccordingt{) Union senior defensemenGreg Buchanan and Bill Moody. Buchanan states, \Trevor has got to be one of the most cornpetitive guys in tenns <lf not I iking people to beat him, whether it be in practice or a game. He takes a lot of pride in that.\ This win- ning attitude helps the team in more ways than one, according to Moody. ''He\s what we call a 'gamer,' and it~s a pleasure to play with a guy I ike that. There is nothing more frus~rating than goalies that don't try, be·cause that doesn't help your game . at\ an~,, both have said that it did anything but hurt their relationship. Ac- cording to Koenig, ''lcouldn 'the happier with the way things are going between us, We try to help each other in every aspect of the game.\ With Delventhal'sresig- nation came the uncertainty of a 1'nostly 11ew coad1i11g staff: ·l~d by Coach Stan Moore. A foriner Colgate assistant, Coach Moore had seen Koenig play on a few Nicknamed ''Tile .J;....... ___ ...... ......,..._ ........ Shark\ by his teaimnates for the occasions before he came 'to big-toothedsm·ilehb_eX:hibitsaf- Union, and he knew then that !er making a save~ ·most Dutch- Koenig had potentiaL «l was re- nienagree that Koenig has helped spectful of the fact that this w.as a to impwve everyone's playing good goaltender corning in. I was level. impressed with his reflexes and . ·A NewCoal'h& \New\ Team his stopping ability.\ Many Last season, Union Hockey people have comrnented posi- went through a.. rough period as trvely on the tough goalie decf- fortner ·head ·coach Bruce sion that Coach Mo(!re had to Delventhal continuously changed make when he arrived. ''I think lines and rotated goalies. Some Leeur is also qui.te skilled, but people guessed that Trevor [Koenig] expressed a consistency Koenig and sophomore goalie ofplaythatwewere looking for.\ Leeor Shtrom had grown apart Koenig believes the change in because of the new rotation, but coach has definitely helped the entire team to improve this sea- son both qn and off the ice. \Stan is a m~h more confidc11t, easy- going guy. He's hrmrght a new attitude towards the team, and it's · niade things easier i11 the dress- ing room-a lot more intense and relaxed in the same breath.\ Trevor Koenig wasattmctcd to Union College, a non-schohirship schooL because of his immediate opportunity to start in goal. \One of the sole rea- sons I picked to come here was the recruiting They showed me a lot of re- spect a11d .inter- est, ~md the fact that they were losing two se- n 1 o r goaltenders whe11 I came it1 was dcfi nitely a factor.\ Th·rough his three years as a starter, he has grown close to this year's large seni<1r class. However, when those thirteen seniors gradu- at·e, Koenig needs to im- prove further according to Coach Moore. \With Trevor be- ing a senior next year~ r hope his game is a little,bit more improved than it is right now.\ Greg Buchanan is confident that Koenig helps form a secure net- tingfornextyear'steam: \I think that they have a rea II y strong nucleus. With the two juniors, Trevor and [forward] Charlie Moxham, and the returning sophomore and freshmen, it looks real strong.\ Koenig's Future With over a season remaining for Trevor K()enig at Uni<m Col- lege, a number of questions arise. First, where in the Union record books will he be found? While it ... will be tough for Koenig to be- come one of the tot' two goal,ies based on wins (Rob Kinghorn leads witl~48, Wayne McDougall is second with47), Koenig should easily move into lhe third spot, above Steve Baker's 27 wins. Even thowgh he is Union's first twenty-ga1ne winner in its short \Division I history, he also stands achancetohavetheschool'slow- · est goals-against average of any twenty-win goalie (he currently has a car~er average 3.03 goals per game, just missing Jim Baxter's 2.99). Finally, he may become Union's all-time effi- ciency leader with his save per- centage at 90.7 percent (ahead of Wayne McDougall's 89.9 per- cent). With numbers like these in Di- vision l Ice Hockey, Koenig stands a chance to play after col- lege with a professional hockey organization. Coach Moore likes Koenig's chances in the future, and he thinks scouts need to pay attention tohis stopping an~ tend- ingabil ities in goal. \Trevor I ikes to stand up a lot, and I think in the NHL, it is important to have someone who can make a first, but also a second and a third save. I believe Trevor is capable of that.\ Koenig may take his statistics and future ii1 stride, but he chooses to point towards more team-orie11ted aims. \I think some of our goals are reaching the playoffs, giving the fans a play- off game at home, and just con- tinuit1g as far as we can and get- ting as much respect and recog- nition as we can.\ How does he want UnionCollege hockey to be thought cf after he leaves? \We as a team want to be remembered as the team that brought Union back and gave it a lot more re- spect over the course of our ca- reers.\ - - - --

.. arvard ho ... -? ••• Dutchmen beat Harvard for first time since ·'95, lose to lowly Brown by .Jonathan Gasthalter Sports Editor The Union College Skating Dutchmen came into their first road weekend of 1997 riding a five'-garne winning streak, includ- i n,g tv.:o straight wins against ECAC teams Yale and the top- ranked Princeton Tigers and po- sitioning them in 7thplace in the ECAC, one point behind Clark son, with a 4-4-1 record. During the streak, the Dutchmen had {)Utscored their opponents 27- 10, lea~ing their team defense raliking the highest in the nation, giving up only 2.33 goals per ga1ne. Junior netminder Trevor K<Jen ig, who has been a rock be- tween the pipes all season tbr the Dt~tc hrn en, I ed the nation's goaJtenders with his 2.13 Goals Against Average and his . 929 ..,.. Sa¥e Percentage. Friday night, the Dutchmen traveled to Harvard,_to battle the Crimson. a team that had held ll11ion scoreless for nine straight periods and had defeated the Dutchmen 3-0 earlier this season on December I I th at Achilles Rink Union, hoping that the pre- vic() US defeat this season would help to spark the offense by pro- vi <ling a revenge factor, got off to a quick start. The Dutchmen started out the ga1ne in the cold Bright Arena with their trademark hard~hitting and so()! id work in the corners, as Russ Monteith, Charlie Moxham, '. • ·, '. . ' ' ~A'I' ' < .... , -- Brmt Ozarowski (21) beats H arvrrrd Goalie J. R. Presifilippo to give l!nion a 2-(J lead, e11 touie to. a 4-2 vict(Jry. (Laurel Ruma I TC) and Ryan Campbell all beat their evening. The goal snapped Union forecheok. Brent Oz.aro'W:ski ing a, pass from Sicinski, cut in menalongtlleboards, gettingto scoreless drought of 221:21 broke the-hl-:tie·wlth Union's and beat Prestifilippo high, get- loose pucks. Union peppered againsitheCrimson and gave the second power,.play goal of.·~·~·· 'ting his third goal of the season Harvard's freshmen goaltender Dutchmen confidence. However, night at 7:06 of the second period. asSicinski registered his third as- J.R. Prestifilippo with shots'but Harvard fought back and six min- John Sioinski threaded a pass to sist on::the evening. Just over a could not break through. Finally, utes later the score was tied as Mark Szucs, who fed Ozarowski minute.:later, with Union again <m at 10:13 ofthe period, Union fi- Harvard'sRob Millar rifled a shot down low in the slot.. Ozaro·wski the poM7(!r-play, Prentice de- nally got through, as Chris Ford past J(Qenig low to the stick side. then buried his fifth goal of the fleeted aSeabrook Satterlund shot deflected a Jay Prentice passover The second period saw Union season. from the .. point to increase the Prestifilippo for Union's first of keep up· its barrage of shots on Union expanded its lead to4-1 Dutchmen· lead to 4~ 1, as three power- play goals 011 the Presti fil ippo and increase its in the third stanza. Monteith, tak- Continued on page 17 Swimming Drowns Against \Villiams - • ,I ' • 1 ',, • by Bill Flick Staff Writer . Bigger, stronger, faster, these are the words most teams use to descrihe the Union College Swimming a-lid Diving team. However, on Saturday just the opposite was true. In addition to Williams Cgllege's speed there was thejr sheernuinbers of swim- mers to contend with. Ort the men's side,.. thmugh heavy· re- cruiting and 38 swimmers, com- pared to Union's 15 , Williams was able to overpower one ofthe .most dominant Division HI m~n' s swlmming program of the \90's. Tne women's team had no easier a time trying to defea~ a team cotnprised of multiple All- American's and large quantities of swimmers. Though many gave tl1eir all and produced their best tiines in the water and highest sccres and on the boards, Union just couldn't compete against a stellarWilliamsteam Themen's team lost 88-148 and the women's team 71-174. Both Co11titmed ott page 18

arvard ho? Dutchmen beat Harvard for first time since '95, lose to lowly Brown b)· .Jonathan Gasthaiter Sports Editor Tlu: lJ nion College Skating Dutchmen carne into their first road weekend of 1997 riding a five-game winning streak. includ- ing. two straight wins against I:CAC teams Yale and the top- ranked Pnnceton Tigers and po- sitioning them in 7th place in the ECAC_ one point behind Cbrkson_ with a 4-4-1 record During the streak the Dutchmen had outsC<Jred their opponents 27- 1 0, lea \'i ng their team defense ranking the highest in the nation, g.i\·ing up only 2 33 goals per game .lu111or nctm mder Trevor Koenig. '\vho has been a rock be- tween the pipes all season for the Dutchmen. led the nation's goaltenders with his 2.13 Goals Again~t Average and his 929 Save Percentage Friday night the Dutchmen traveled to Harvard to battle the Cnmson_ a team that had held Union sc<lreless for nine straight periods and Jmd defeated the Dutchmen 3-0 earlier this season on December II th at Achilles Rink Union. hoping that the pre- vious defeat this season would help to spark the offense by pro- viding a revenge factor. got ofT to a quick start The Dutchmen started out the game in the cold Bright Arena with their trademark hard-hitting and solid work in the corners, as Russ Monteith. Charlie Moxham. Bre/lt Ozarowski (21) beats Harvard Goalie.J.R. Prestjilippo to give Unioll a 2-0 lead, ell route to a 4-2 victory.(Laurel Ruma I TC) and Ryan Campbell all beat their evening. The goal snapped Union forecheck. Brent Ozarowski ing a pass from Sicinski, cut in menalongtheboards.gettingto scoreless drottght of 221:21 broke the 1-1 tie with Union's and beat Prestifilippo high. get- loose pucks. Union peppered against the Cri111:son and gave the second power-play goal of the ting his third goal of the season Harvard's freshmen goaltender Dutchmen confidence. However, night at 7:06 of the second period. as Sicinski registered his third as- JR. Prestifilippo with shots but Harvard fought back and six min- John Sicinski threaded a pass to sist on the evening. Just over a could not break through. Finally, utes later the score was tied as Mark Szucs, who fed Ozarowski minute.later, with Union again on at I 0 13 of the period, Union fi- Harvard's Rob lv1illarrifled a shot down low in the slot. Ozarowski the power-play, Prentice de- nally got through. as Chris Ford past Koenig low to the stick side then buried his fifth goal of the fleeted a Seabrook Satterlund shot detlected a Jay Prentice pass over The second period saw Union season from the point to increase the Prestifilippo for Union's first of keep up its barrage of shots on Union expanded its lead to 4-1 Dutch men lead to 4-1, as three power-play goals on the Prest ifil ippo and increase its in the third stanza. Monteith, tak- Continued 011 page 17 Swimming Drowns Against Williams Union swimmers witlr a fast start agai11st Williams College_ (Laurie Kirsclmer!TC) by Bill Flick Staff Writer Bigger. stronger. faster, these are the words most teams use to descri he the Union Co liege Swimming at'ld Diving team However, on Saturday just the opposite was true In addition to Willi-ams College's speed there was their sheer numbers of swim- mers to contend with On the men's side, through heavy re- cruiting and 38 swimmers. com- pared to Union's 15. Williams was able to overpower one of the most dominant Division III men's swimming program ofthe '90's The women's team had no easier a time trying to defeat a team comprised of multiple All- American's and large quantities of swimmers. Though many gave their all and produced their best times in the water and highest scores and on the boards, Union just couldn't compete against a stellar Williams team The men's team lost 88-148 and the women's team 71-174. Both Conti11ued 011 page 18

·campus: Global: Sports: Huggins Prints New Book pageS Rink on Thin Ice? by Chris Leone Sports Editor & Elizabeth DeKoven Contributing Writer As reported last week by The Daily Ga=ette and The Concordiensis, Union College is currently entertaining moving the ice hockey teams to an off-cam- pus facility. This has caused a wave of speculation across cam- pus, and this article will attempt to clarify some of the rumors that have been circulating To start Union College's posi- tion, in relation to the ahove, is still undefined The proposaL set forth by an unnamed developer, is for a public ice skating rink to be built several blocks from Union College's campus on North Jay Street. The proposed rink would be a cooperative ven- ture that could serve the needs of the Union College hockey pro- gram, the Schenectady Youth Hockey Association, and the lo- cal community. Charles Casey, a Union College spokesperson, said the proposal comes at an opportune time for the college because Achilles Rink, the 20-year -old structure that currently houses the Skating Dutchmen, is in need of repairs that are estimated at over $2 mil- lion. This past weekend, it was an- nounced that the Schenectady Youth Hockey Association signed an agreement to use the proposed $5 million rink. When questioned about the funding and the Association's lease agreement for this project, Michael J. Caruso, President of the Assoc ia- tion, stated that \It was impossible to say too much at this point.\ He went on to add that a lot would be \depending on Union.\ Casey said that the current pro- posal on Union's table includes a lease agreement with the college Hassle Free Construction by Stephanie Slobotkin News Editor With construction about to be- gin on both the Schaffer Library and the Olin Building, the cam- pus community is growing more concerned about the av\J.ilabil ity of study spaces and the effect the construction will have on students and the campus. At the meeting on Thursday, January 16, Dean Alford made the point that students will be made aware at all times of the changes that will take place, and how they will effect such things as a student's route to class or the college center. \We are keeping a watchful eye on the Olin and the library,\ said Alford, \and doing our best to keep everyone up- dated.\ The committee of stu- dents, faculty and staf are meet- ing to discuss concerns about the impact of both the Schaffer and Olin projects. Along with Bill Shafer, the planner of construction for the school, Alford said that the most important part of the changes have to do with social and envi- ronmental aspects The next as- pect is to address the outlets for public relations in order to keep the community aware of any dis- ruptions or conflicts that may arise from the construction. The library will be under ma- jor construction beginning in the middle of February. \Until then,\ Shafer said, \there won't be a lot of'outside' noise.\ He mentioned that the path between the Alumni gym and the back part of the li- brary will be cut and construction traffic wiiJ comeoffofthe Union Gate, between the tennis courts and the gym. Public access will be on the sidewalk near the gym. According to Schaffer, it will take one year to rip out the old build- ing and reconstruct and build the Continued on page 4 Clinton's Inauguration page 12 Union Loses to RPI page 16 Is Union's Junne ice becoming our Achilles Heel? (file plloto!TC) for the use of the rink. This pro- posed rink would include an ad- ditional sheet of ice, bringing the total to three This would raise the total cost of the project by an undetermined amount However, several sources have stated that Union College Presi- dent, Roger Hull, indicated the College was given a lease option and a $9 million option to buy the skating facility. At press time, President Hull was unavailable to substantiate these claims. The issue of rink specifications and total final costs are not the only items still in doubt at this juncture. Financing locations and the name of the developer have both remained unanswered. Caruso stated that the name Gfthe development company will even- tually be released Contrary to rumors, David Fusco, the majority owner (.Jfthe property where the proposed skat- ing rink would be built, gave no comment on the status ofthe deal I Jowever, he did assert that he was merely the \property owner\ in this situation, not the devel- oper Regardless of who the devel- oper may be, they will need to secure financing for this project That funding is one of the main concerns remaining in the College's decision process Col- continued on page 4 Union Issues Employee Benifits to Gay and Lesbian Partners by Aileen Quigley Assistant News Editor Starting January 1st, Union will put into effect a policy that enables the partners of gay and lesbian fac- ulty and staff to be covered under the college's insurance policy. Like married hetero- vocates have taken major steps in the past twenty years and feel that this \speaks well for the direction ... [ we are] heading,\ Domestic partnership benefits include the same as those offered to all employees of this college Derived from Union's original policy for heterosexual couples, dependence, and must have lived together for a number of years Financially speaking, Dean Letriz states that I% of employ- ees ever take advantage of this, and to date onl) hl'tween one and tive faculty members have requested the coverage Since same-sex mar- riages are not legally recognized, couples cannot file a sexual employees, documentation of the union must be pre- sented to receive the coverage. However, same-sex marriages \[It's/ the next best thing to the government recognizing same- sex marriages,\ -Dean Letriz joint tax return, so these benefits would be considered tax- able income. In ad- dition. the largest cost ofhealth insur- are recognized neither ----------------------- ancc for companies is pregnancy, \Vhich is less I ikelv to be a concern for a homosexual couple Some are concerned that insurance funds \Viii be used hy same-sex partners for covering costs AIDS-related illnesses by the state nor the federal gov- ernment, and homophobia, accord- ing to Dean Edgar Letriz, is often a road-block to the implementation of policies I ike this. Nevertheless, looking at Union as a microcosm of the nation, gay and lesbian ad- tllese are not \additional\ or\spe- cial\ henefits, nor have the recipi- ents gained anything supplemen- tary to what a legally married couple would receive Both part- ners must sign an affidavit stating their emotional and financial inter- continued on page 5 ' • • ' • • '_ ', ' ' ' / .., : • ' \ ',' \ • ~.' i; ' ' ' • ' I • : • ' '• ~ • j • ' • • 'I • ' • • • • • ' ' • ' • ' • • ' ' ' • Campus News .................................... 2 . \lN.SIJJE.: I . Features ................................................... ~ . .... 12 UlcJbal News ...... . Opinions/Editorials ......................... 6 Arts and Entertainment ............ ............. 10 . .I ti Sport.\\ .... ......... .

·eampus: Global.: Sports·: Huggins Prints New Book page5 Rink on Thin Ice? . by Chris Leone Sports Editor & Elizabeth DeKoven Contributing Writer As reported last week by The Daily Ga:?ette and The Concordiensis, Union College is currently entertaining moving the ice hockey teams to an off~cam­ pus facility. This has caused a wave of speculation across cam- pus, and this article will attempt . . to clarify some ofthe rumors that have been circulating. To start, Union College's posi- tion, in relation to the above, is still undefined. The proposal, set forthby an unnamed developer, is for a pub! ic ice skating rink to be buih several blocks from Union College's campus on North Jay Street. The proposed rink would be a cooperative ven- · ture that could serve the needs of the Union College ho9key pro- gram, the Sclrertectady Youth Hockey Association, and the lo- cal community. Charles Casey, a Union College spokesperson~ said the proposal comes at an opportune time for the college because Achilles Rink, the 20-year -old structure that currently houses the Skating Dutchmen, is in need ofrepairs that are estimated at over $2 mil- lion. This past we~kend, it was an- nounced that the Schenectady Youth Hockey Association '·:-, . -....... ' : ~~' ,·.··· .... .. \ ( -.·: ··: ' . signed an agreement to use the proposed$5 million rink When questioned about the funding and the Association's lease agreement, for this proj.ect, Michael J. Caruso, President of the Associa- tion, stated that \lt was impossible to say too much at this point..\ He went on to add that a lot would be \depending on Union.\ Casey said that the current pro- posal on Union's table includes a lease agreement with the college Hassle Free Construction by Stephanie Slobotkin News Editor With construction about to be- gin on both the Schaffer Library and the Olin Building, the cain- pus community is growing more concerned about the av~ilability of study spaces and the effect the construction will have on students and the campus. At the meeting on Thursday, January 16, Dean Alford made the point that students will be made aware at all times of the changes that will take place, and how they will effect such things as a studenfs route to class or the college center. \We are keeping a watchful eye on the Olin and the library,\ said Alford, \and doing our best to keep everyone. up~ dated.\ The committee of stu- dents, faculty and staf are meet- ing to discuss concerns about the impact ofhoth the Schaffer and Olin projects. Along with Bill Shafer, the pl.anner of construction for the school, Alford saidth~t the most important part of the changes have to do with socia].and envi- ronmental aspects. The next as• pect is to address the outlets for public relations in order to keep the community aware of any dis- · ruptions or conflicts that may arise from the constmction. The library will be under ma- jor construction beginning in the middleofFebruary. \Until then,\ Shafer said, \there won't be a lot of 'outside' noise'.\ He mentioned that the path between the Alumni gym and the back part of the li- brary wilt be cut and construction traffic will come off of the Union Gate, between the tennis courts and the gym. Public .access w411 be on the sidewalk near the gym. ·According to Schaffer, it will take one year to rip out the old build- ing and teconstruct and build the Contin;,ed on page 4 Clinton's Inauguration page 12 Union Loses to RPI ;page 16 Is Union'sltomeice becomiqg out Acllilles Heet? (file plwto(TC) . ' . ' 1 < w . . for the use of the rink. Thispro- substantiateJhese c.laims. ingri\nk would be built, gave no . . . .. . \ \.· posed rink would include an ad· The issue of!· ink specific:atmns comment on the status of the deal. ditional sheet of ice, bringing the and total tina! costs are not th~ However, he did assert that ·he total to three. This would raise only iteins still in doubt at this was merely the \property owner\ the total cost ofthe proje.~t by an juncture. Financing locations and in this situation, not the devel- undetennined amount. the name ofthe developer h.ave oper. However, several .sources have both remained unanswered. Regardless of who the devel- stated that Union College Presi- Caruso stated that the name of the oper may be, they will need to dent, Roger Hull, indicated the developmentco1npanywill even- secure financing forthisproject. College was given a lease option tually be released. That funding is one of the main anda$9millionoptiontobuythe Contrary to rumors, David concerns remaining in the skating facility. At press time, Fusco, the majority owner of the Cellege's decision process. Col· President Hull was unavailable to property where the proposed skat· continued 6n page 4 Union Issues Employee Benifits to Gay and Lesbian Partners by Aileen Qujgley Assistant News Editor Starting January 1st, Union will put into effect a policy that enables the partners of gay and lesbian fac- ulty and staff to be covered under the college's insurance policy. Like married hetero- vocates have taken major steps in the past twe11ty years and feel that this \speaks well for the direction ... [we are] heading.\ Domestic p;:1rtnership benefits include the sa1ne as those offered to all employees of this college. Derived from Union's original policy for heterosexual couples, ·dependence, and must have lived together for a number of years. Financially speaking, Dean Letriz states that 1% of employ- eesever take advantage of this, and to date only between one a11d five faculty tnembers have requested the coverage. Since same•sex mar- riages are not legally recognized, --~--------~--------~------------~-- couples cannot file a joint tax return, so these benefits would be considered tax- able income. In ad- dition, the largest cost ofhealth insur- sexual employees, · documentation of the union must be pre- sented to receive the coverage. However, same-sex marriages \[It's} the next best thing to the government recognizing· same- sex marriages,\ -Dean Letriz . are recognized neither ________ _,_ _______________ ance for companies by the state nor the federal gov- these are not\'additional\ or\spe- is pregnancy, which .is less likely emment, and homophobia, accord- cial\ benefits, nor have the recipi- to be a concern for a homosexual ing to Dean Edgar Letriz, is often ents gained anything supj>lemen- couple. Some are concerned that a road-block totheimplementation tary to what a iegally 1narried insurance funds will be used by of policies J.ikethis. Nevertheless, couple would receive. Both part- same-sex partners for covering looking at Union as a microcosm ners must sign an affidavit stating costs AIDS-related illnesses. · of the nation, gay and lesbian ad- their emotional and financial iuter- contilrued on page 5 INSIDE: (:allipU.~ News ............ , .................. ;, ... 2 Feature.-: ..................................................... 8 GlohaJ News .............................. 12 Opinions/Editorials: ........................ 6 Arts and Ente rlainment ....................... ... . I 0 Sports ....................................... /6

Pag,e 2 • .Januai·y 23~ 1997 • 'illlic Qloucor.Oi~ttsis. . · Campus News CAMPUS SAFETYD_EPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIOENTSUMMARY ·Campus Info .. }tONDA\', JANUARYl3, 1997THROUGiHSUNOAY,JANUARY19, 1997 DATE/TI,ME ·· LOCATION ·· . - · -- . . INCIDENT Pre-Health Society Upcoming Events The Double ''H\ Hole in the Woods Ranch (A Palll Newman camp in Lake Luzerne, NY) Information session with: 1:18AM . I 1:06AM 1:00PM ,. MQNDAY,JA:NUARY 13,1997: Richmond . . . . . SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odor of South marijuana reported. Odor cop · firmed unable to identify sour.ce . HARASSMENt: Unwanted communication. Stispect known. · Raymond South VANDALISM: Sink in first floor bathreotn damaged. TUESDAY,.JANUARY14, ~997: Max Yurand~; Camp Director Martha Lepow, M.D., Prof. and Chair, Department of Pediatrics, Albany·Medical Center . li:SOAM Lamont House . _ UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS: Supp.ly cabinet and desk used without authorization. WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 1997: Karyn Brownstein '97, Counselor at The Boggy Creek · 12:40AM South College VANDALISM: Sofa placed atop billiard table. Gang Camp in Florida, summer '96 Wednesday, January 29th, 7:00P.M. Campus Center Auditorium Hospice. Training Workshop Tuesdays and Thursdays, January 28th- Feb 20th, 6:30- 9:30 P.M. , Bai1ey Hall 312 Call Gloria Petterson at 377-88.46 for more information Faculty and staff are also welcome to attend. 6:30PM 9:29PM 5:58AM 9:30AM 1G:07PM Alexander Lane RECKLESS ENDANGER MENT: Student drove vehicle around barrier chams and along sidewalk. Co11duct Charges filed. ~ Davidson SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Studentbecame ·ill as a result of consumption of alcoholic . beverage. Conduct Charges filed. . THURSDAY,JA.NUARY16,1997: Davidson North ef.ltry · · VANDALISM! Glass in door broken as a . r::esult of being ckicked. West Col'lege PROPERTY DAMAGE: Loading dock .catwalk damaged. Believed to have been struck by a delivery truck. Reamer Center - HARASSMENT: Unwanted communica tiotis. Become a G.ate·keeper Union:, Finest, .$baping The Future of our School Pick- up an application at th.e College Center Info--Desk or at the · 10:30'PM Richmond HARASSMENT: Unwanted co1mnunica tions. FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 1997: . 9:52AM. North College · · Theft Student reports motiey missing from room. Occt~tred during winter break. Admissions·· Office. · Student Forum Meeting M\in~tes t/16/97 5:50- Call to Or<ier- Gifford, Proctor, & LaVine absent ' . 5:52- Mike Fergu.son --Saturday night social activities- Handed out schedule 5:54- Officer Reports: Brantigan- BASIC's constitution approved; Environmental Club's funding und.er consideration; C11ess Club nearly ready for fu11ding · Abessi- Interest in meeting with UBGiad: First finance meeting 1/20 at 7PM on 4th Floor RCC; Minutes last week should retlect $800 for Ski Club, not $5,050 ·Cohen- Winter Affair February 28th with party favors- $6/person expected price Pellish- Trustee Meeting January 27-28 ' Malaspina- Crosstalk about rink with J~ull, Alford, & Joel Bond January 29th. , Fox- AA having fund-raiser for churches burned 1122; Phi Delt. to eat with Trustees LeDuc- Senior Night Tuesday, l/21; Looking into seni-Or trip (white-water rafting) Markowsl.<i- Lobster bake in spring (freshmen)- Needs details Liberman- Three houses to be reviewed this year- Bronner, KA, & SOT 6:03- Old Business: Nadia Reynolds- Funds for activities of African American Heritage Month Com- mittee- Used for Patrice Gaines, Talent Show, Movies Every Wednesday, & Dances. Graham Lucas · President of the Alpine Ski Club - Asked for $2,880- Drown (financerep.) states the issue was already discussed- LLicas says club is 20 years old and des~rves mo-re- Abessi directs Lucas to come back at end of season when more is known about expenses - Cunanan directs Abessi to review budget one final time. Mark Goloboy :-Co-Chair of the Con.cert Committee· Announces \A Tribe Called Quest\ was students' choice, but $7,000 needed from Student Forum holding ac- count (current sta11ding: $43,500) in order to sign- They hope to make $25-$40K on the concert - $2-3 per ticket given to Camp Cool .J - Motion by Morris: Pending Concert Comtnittee 's booking of \A Tribe Called Quest\ or band of that caliber, $7,000 granted- Passed unanimously. 6:37 -New polic11 - Must tell Manny or Frank directly if tnember will not attend meeting- TiredofForum being called a \circus\. 6:43- UBGiad Discussion (Meeting Left Open): Cunanan states students previous week were upset about posters, so motion passed · to freeze funds pending discussion with UBGiad- Letter drafted to UBGiad never got out to UBG lad (Abessi apologizes), but Cunanan spoke to Meredith Miller abotJt posters- This was what Forum wanted, and Cunanan requests unfreezing of funds; Miller says they were wrong for not getting posters approved, Abessi sticks by origi- nal freezing of funds as a young crowd often walks through RCC Shuron Morton concerned that a group who gets an offensive speaker could get their funds frozen- Abessi says you can choose to go to speaker, but can't choose to see posters~ Dean Letriz proposes Student Forum review own Constitution on offensiveness- Upset this could happen without due process; Zandman states picture was illegal in NYS; Cunanan states Constitution is what they have to go by currently (a better process should be searched for), Fo.x states that the balance of power may be a problem, and Lee Rose should twt be the end-all, be~all~ Malaspina says Lee Rose may not be best person to decide and discussion on what should be offensive to students may be necessary; Brandon Declet states students did not elect Forum to decide what is obscene; Miller states Forum must be clear on what \stamp\ really means- Motion made by Morris: Unfreeze UBGlad's funds- Passed unanimously- Motion made by Morris: Student Forum must draft letter to all club presidents as of l/17stating all posters must be stamped or funds will be frozen- Passed 16-0 with one abstention. ·12:27 AM 2:20AM, 2A2AM 2:59AM 4:10AM 9:40AM 7:40PM 1:14AM SATURDAY,;JANUARY 18,1997: Fraternity Harassment: Students threatened by group ofvisitors. Visitors implied they had a gun. SPD notified. Suspects identifi€d-no weapons found. Advised otf campus. Richmond SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Student became West Beach area Raymond House Raymond/Potter Lot Psi Upsilon Davidson ill as a r-esult of consumption of alcohol.ic beverage. Conduct Charges filed. FIRE: Abandoned sofa set afire. No secondary damage or injury. HARASSMENT: Unwanted communica tion. DISORDERLY CONDUCT/ASSAULT: Altercation athong students and student guests. Three students injured. SAFETY HAZARD: Fire exits blocked by improper storage. Residents corrected the problem. Fire exit sign not working- work order filed for repair. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Room smoke detector damaged. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. SUNDAY, JANUARY i9, 1997: Off Campus PROPERTY MISSING: Student . teported jacket stolen with identity ami keys in. pocket Jacket later found on campus-all property intact 1:44AM Edwards House THEFT: Student's jacket stolen during cainpus social event 1:30 PM Alexander Lane 1:45 PM North Terrace Lane 2:00PM · North College SA FETV: ·Barrier chain struck by car. No damage to car or chain. RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT: Visitors attending campus function driving around barrier gate onto sidewalks. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Room smoke detector removed Candles in use. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. TOGETHER FOR A SAFE CAMPllS: In order to a.ccomodate and prepare for the impending construction of the Olin Building and to meet the needs for delivery of goods and supplies to the Reamer Center the foll()wing changes in parking patterns around the Reamer Campus Center will take place itnmed iately. I )The Reamer Center loading dock area will no longer be a general parki11g area. This area is now designated as · loading dock delivery acc.ess a11d handicapped access ONLY 2)The handicapped parking spaces t.hat forinerly existed alan g the south side of the loading dock have been moved to the north side of the lot There are four ( 4) handicapped parking spaces available. Reminder, you must have a cuTrent ha11dicapped parking penn it to use handicapped reserved parking spaces ancl tl1ehandicapped person to whom the permit was issued must be .in the car when the car is parked. 3)The parking spaces formerly reserved for campus based service vehicles will be vacated and moved to the small lot on the west side of the Campus Operations building. 4)There is no parking allowed along roadways on campus unless otherwise designated by posted signs for parking. This restriction is especially vital around. tl1e Reamer Center Traffic Circle and along the North Entry Roadway leading to the Reamer Center to avoid safety hazards and to keep emergency access opened. · ll \ ' i: I s t (

Campus Info Pre-Health Society Upcoming Events The Double \H\ Hole in the Woods Ranch (A Paul Newman camp in Lake Luzerne, NY) Information session with: Max Yuranda, Camp Director Martha Lepow, M.D., Prof. and Chair, Department of Pediatrics, Albany Medical Center Karyn Brownstein '97, Counselor at The Boggy Creek Gang Camp in Florida, summer '96 Wednesday, January 29th, 7:00P.M. Campus Center Auditorium Hospice Training Workshop Tuesdays and Thursdays~ January 28th - Feb 20th, 6:30- 9:30 P.M., Bailey Hall312 Call Gloria Petterson at 377-8846 for more information Faculty and staff are also welcome to attend. Become a Gatekeeper Union's Finest, Shaping The Future of our School Pick up an a:ppli:cation at the College Center Info-Desk or at the Adm:issions Office. ·_ :.st.u~·e:nt ·Foru.~lyi:e~t-in·g -MI_..-·u.tes·:1{16197··~. - \ . . S:SO- Call to Order- Gifford, Proctor. & LJVine absent 5:52- Mike hrguson- SaturdaY night social activities- I landed out schedule S:54- Ortlcer Reports Brantigan- BASIC's constitution approved. Lnvironmental Cluh 's fundin~ under consideration. Chess Club nci.lrl\ rcaJv for funding ~ Abessi -Interest in meeting\\ itl1l.IBCilaJ: First finance met:ting 1/~0 at 7PM on 4th Floor RCC .l\1inutes last \\·eck should rdlect $800 for Ski Cluh. not $5Jl)(' Cohrn- Winter Am1ir Fehruar) :2Hth \\ith partv Ll\ors- $6/person e\peeted price Pellish -Trustee Meeting Januar~ ~7 -~S 'lalaspina- Crosstalk ahmtt rmk \\ ith (lull. Alford. & Joel Bond January 2'-!th Fox- A A having fund-rai:-;er t(Jr churche:-; hurncd 1 1 22. Phi Delt to eat v .. iti, Trustees LeDuc- Senior Night Tuesday. I !21. Looking into seniortnp (white-water rafting) \1arktmski- Lohster hake i11 spring (freshmen)- Needs details Liberman- Three houses to he reviewed this year- Bronner. KA & SDT 6:03- C1ld Bus mess :'~Jadia Reynolds- Funds for <1cti vi ties of African Amencan Heritage Month Com- mittee- Used for Patrice Gaines_ ralent Show. Movies Everv Wednesdav. & Dances Gral-.am Lucas- President of the Alpine Ski Cluh- Asked for $2.S80- Drown ( fin:mcc rep ) states the issue \\'as al rcadv d iscus:-;ed- Lucas savs club is 20 vcars old and deserves more- A hessi directs L uc~s to come hack at end. of season wl~en more is known ahout expenses - C\111anan directs Ahcssi to review budget one final time. :\1ark Golobov- Co-Clwir of the Concert Committee- Announces·· A Trihe l'alled C)uest .. was students· choice. hut $7JJOO necJcd from Student Forum holding ac- count (current standing $43_50(1) in order to sign- They hope tn make $25-$40K on the concert- $2-3 per ticket gi\en to Camp Cool .I -Motion hy Morris Pending Concert Committee's hooking of\/\ Trihe Called f)uesC or hand of that caliber. $7.000 granted- Passed unanimottsly 6:37 -New policy- Must tell Manny or Frank directly if memhcr will not attend mect1ng- Ttred ofForum hcJngcallcd a \circus .. 6:43- l JBGlad Discussion (Meet in g. Left Open) Cunanan states students previous \Veek were upset ahout posters. so mot ion passed to freeze funds pending discL1ssion with lJBC!Iad- Letter drafted to llBGlad never got out to l me; lnd (A hessi apolog.izes ). hut Cunanan spoke to Meredith Miller ahout posters- This \.Vas what Forum wanted. and Cunanan requests unfreezing of funds~ Miller says they were wrong t()r not getting. posters approved. Ahcss1 sticks hy origi- nal frcezi ng of funds as a young crowd often walks through RCC Shuron Morton concerned that a group \vho gets un offensive speaker could get their funds frozen- Ahcssi says you can choose to go to speaker, hut can't choose to sec posters; Dean Letriz proposes Student Forurn review O\\:n Constitution on offensiveness- Upset this could happen without due process; Zandman states picture was illegal in NYS; Cunanan states Constitution is what they have to go hy currently (a better process should he searched for). Fox states that the halance of power may he a problem. and I .ee Rose should not he the cnd-al I, he-all~ Malaspina says Lee Rose may not he hest person to decide and discussion on what should be offensive to students may be necessary, Brandon Dcclct states students did not elect Forum to decide what is obscene; Miller states Forum must be clear 011 what \stamp\ really means- Motion made by Morris: Unfreeze UBGiad's funds- Passed unanimously- Motion made by Morri::; Student Forum must draft Jetter to all club presidents as of 1117 stating all posters must be stamped or ftmds will be frozen- Passed 16-0 with one abstention. CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY, JANUARY 13, 1997THROUGH SUNDAY, JANUARY 19,1997 DATE/TIME LOCATION INCIDENT 1:18AM I 1:06AM I :00 PM II :50 AM 12:40 AM 6:30PM 9:29PM 5:58AM 9:30AM 10:07 PM 10:30 PM 9:52AM 12:27 AM 2:20AM 2 42 AM 2 59 AM 410/\M 9.40 AM 7 40 PM I 14AM MONDAY, JANUARY 13,1997: Richmond SliEST ANCE ABUSE: Odor of mari9uana reported. Odor con South finned unable to identify source. HARASSMENT: Unwanted coJnmumcat1on. Suspect known. Raymond South VANDALISM: Sink in first floor bathroom damaged. TUESDAY, JANUARY 14,1997: Lamont House UN AUTHORIZED ACCESS: Supply cabinet and desk used without authorization. WEDNESDAY,JANUARY 15,1997: South College VANDALISM: Sofa placed atop biHiard table Alexander Lane RECKLESS ENDANGER MENT: Student drove vehicle around barrier chams and along sidewalk. Conduct Charges filed. Davidson StJBST ANCE ABUSE: Student became ill as a result of consll!nption of alcoholic beverage. Conduct Charges filed. THURSDAY,JANUARY 16,1997: Davidson North entry VANDALISM: Glass in door broken as a result of being kicked. West College PROPERTY DAMAGE: Loading dock catwalk damaged. Believed to have been struck by a delivery truck. Reamer Center HARASSMENT: Unwanted communica tions. Richmond HARASSMENT: Unwanted communica tions FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 1997: North College Theft: Student reports money missmg from room. Occurred during winter hreak. SATURDAY, JANUARY 18,1997: Fraternity Harassment: Students threatened hy group of visitors Visitors i m pi ied they had a gun SPD notified SL1spects identified-no weapons found. Advised off campus Richmond st:BSTANCE ABUSE: Student became Wt:st Beach area Ravmond House Ravmond/Potter l.ot Psi l lpsilon Davidson ill as a result of consumption of alcoholic hcveruge Conduct Charges filed FIRE: Ahandoned sot2 set afire No secondary damage or injury 11.-\.RASSME:\JT: Unwanted commumea t I Clll J>ISORDERLY CONDt:CT/ASSAl iLT: A It creation among students and student guests Three students injured SAFETY HAZARD: Fire exits blocked h~· improper storage. Residents corrected the problem. Fire exit sign not working- work order filed for repair. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Room smoke detector damaged. Life Safety Violation Notice filed SllNDA Y, .JA:\JliARY i 9, 1997: OtTCampus PROPERTY MISSI~G: Student reported jacket stolen \.Vith identity and kcv·s in pocket Jacket bter found on ca1npus-all property intact I 44 AM Edwards llnu:-;e THEFT: Student's jacket stolen durinu . I:' I. 30 PM Alexander I .:me I· 45 PM North Terrace Lme 2.00 PM North College ca1npus social event SA H<:TY: Barrier chain struck hv car No daJnage to car or elm in RECKLESS ENDANCERMENT: Visitors attending campus function driving around harrier gate onto sidewalks LIH~ SAFETY VIOLATION: Room smoke detector removed Candles m use L1tt: Safctv Violation Not1ce filed TOGETHER FOR A SAFE CAMPl!S: In order to a~comodate and prepare for the impending construction of the Olin Building and to meet the needs for delivery of goods and supplies to the Reamer Center the followmg. cl1angcs 111 parking. patterns around the Reamer l'ampus Center will take place 11mned iately. I )The Reamer Center loading dock area will no longer he a general parking area This area is 110w designated as loading dock delivery access and handicapped access ONLY 2 )The handicapped parking spaces that formerly existed along the SOL!th side of the loading dock have heen moved to the north side of the lot There are four ( 4) handicapped parking spaces available. Reminder, you must have a current ha11dicapped parking perm it to use handicapped reserved parking spaces and the handicapped person to whom the permit was issued must be 111 the car when the car is parked. 3 )Tbe parkmg spaces formerly reserved for campus based service vehicles will be vacated and moved to the small lot on the west side of the Campus Operations building. 4 )There is no parkmg allowed along roadways on campus unless otherwise designated by posted signs for parking. This restriction is especially vital around the Reamer Center Traffic Circle and along the North Entry Roadway leading to the Reamer Center to avoid safety hazards and to keep emergency access opened. fo W• wl 111 li f ca I e. pl to w 01 u VI IS Sf gi ht tn ht til m St H st t j, c Ill tl f<

Ca'mpus News · · .. · Wire Olott:cor.Oicns.is • JaJiuary 23, l997 • Page 3 The Rejection Test by Steplwnie Ktulm Staff Writer For a mere fee? approximately forty-five students engaged ·i~ a workshop .this past weekend which offered more. than a lesson in endurance,. but also a lesson for life. Future goals hold a sign ifi- cant spot in the li yes ofmostcol· lege students. These goals ex,- . plain why we are here: to learn,. to grow, and to discover both wll() we are and where we are goin~ once the comforting walls_ <>f Union College ate behind ·Cepted, the test becomes a rejec- tion test. The wo~kshop provided infor- mation not only on how to take the MCA T, hut on how to focus skills and to interpret infonnation. ·\You have to thinkiike a doctor,\ I recall him emphasizing over the ceurseofth.esessi~n, Theimpor- tance of learning to integrate all the sci~nce information pre-med studeiJts have accumulated over the years and relating such infor- mation to the huui.an body and to medicine were presented as key Critical thinking was oneofthe key sources of emphasis thrmtgh- · out the workshop. «Dr. Hassan taught the importance ofcritical thinking in preparing for the .. MCAT,and,moreimportantly, in becoming a physician,\ said se- niorCan:neh McMurtry. In addition to the 9:15- 5:30 sessions on both Saturday and Sunday, Dr. Hassan led a work- shop for faculty on Friday evening and had open houses for students from 9PM-12AM Satur- day and Sunday. Alnong provid- ing answers to questions us. Dr. Aftab Hassan, Vice President of Academic De- velopment at Williatns and Wilkins Educational Ser- vices, Jed the workshop and ~(Tlte .more you understand the material from different perspec- tives, the more you .will under- statui the material\ about the MCA T and other standardized tests, which courses at Union prepare students for the . MCA T, and what books contain the best prepara- tory materiai,Dr. Hassan is a nationally recognized specialist on educational pm- grams who assists students in health professions exams by pro- moting active learning as the most helpful component to a prepara- tion plan. He has al_so authored many books relating to .these is- sues of test preparation. The session began with Dr, Hassan explaining that MCA 1' stood for Medical College Rejec- tion Test as opposed to Medical College Admissions Test becallse medical schools use the MCA T as a screen for applicants. Since the numberofappllcantsrejected far outweighs the number ac- factors ia MCAT success. 'The more you tmderstand the material from different persp_ectives, the more you will understand the material,\ said Prof Carol Weisse in Psychobiology class, relating to the information given in the workshop. Understat1ding Biology, Chem- istry, )lhysics, etc. at the level of the class itself is not always e110ugh for becoming a doctor of medicine; the person has to be able to apply the principles simul- taneously and understand the interconnectedness of all the dis- ciplines. also spoke to students individu- ally and provided advice on choices of I!lajor and other per- sonal topics. The workshop was \very in for- mational - s.ome of the things I would ~ave never learned any- where else,\ commented sopho- more Elina Tabenshlak. The experience was not limited to upperclassman, however, and neither were the benefits and overall satisfaction with the pro- gram. \It was the most infonna- tive workshop I could ever imag- ine having attended,\ expressed freshman Michelle Sanchez. Theme House Informational Meeting Interested in living a theme house next year?· Come to the i11{ormational meeting today, Jan. 23 at 9; 30 pui iYt the oid chupel MBA Accounting MBA Health Systems Administration MBA International Management MBA Managetnent One Additional Year of Study For Information Call: 388-6239 . ' Union Students Participate in Hospice Program by Michelle Neier Staff Writer One ofthe major issues raised on the Union campus is the in- volvement of students in the Schenectady community. As of next week, however, there will be proof that Union students do make a difference in the. area. The Capital District Hospice located on Union Street in Schenectady sponsors a Patient/ Family Vol- unteer progrmn. With the help of Prof KarenWilliamsand the Pre- Health Program, the Hospice will be holding a training session on campus for the next four weeks. Prof. Williams became inter• ested in the program after speak- ing to sophomore Tom Marino. Last year as a freshman, Tom be- came involved in the program and informed Prof. Williams of his involvement. Last spring, Tom took the training coi.lrse which was given at the Hospice but he has yet to work with a patient and his/her family. On the Patient/ Volunteer Program Tom feels that \Hospice allows you to be who you are, to deal with the struggles of death and dying, and helps you to grow with a smile\. After par- ticipating in the program he has come to understand death better and sees it as a 11atural part o fli fe. He also feels that Hospice is a great program to introduce thture doctors to the idea of caring tor a patient and a family's emotional needs as well astheir medical re- quirements. One ofthc students who has registered tor the pro- gram says, \Although it is a daunting prospect to face a ter- minally ill patient and their fam- ily, I teellucky to be able to share in one of life's most poignant moments\. She decided that work with the Capita] Union Hospice would be a wonderful opportunity for any students interested in health re- lated professions. As a result? at the Volunteers Program, spon- sored by the Pre-Health Office and the Protestant Campus Min- istry, the Capital Union Hospice was present and distributed infor- mation abouttheirprogram. The Coordinator ofVolunteersat the Hospice agreed to holding a train- ing session on campus if at least eight people would participate. At this time, Ms. Petterson has received at least eight registration fonns. Along with the Union stu- dents, participants will include the spouse of a faculty member, Prof Williams, and some members of the outside comniunity. The eight three hour sessions which will be held on Tuesdays m1d Thursdays from January 28 to February 20 will be led by both Coordinators ofVol unteers at the Hospice, Sharon Hext and G Ioria J>etterson. With them will be statT from the Hospice training the vol- unteers. Topics ofthe eight ses- sions \Nill focus on topics rang- ing from Philosophy of Hospice Care, Concept of Death and Dy- ing to Communication Skills, anJ Stress Management. Present at the sessions will be various speak- ers, one of whom is Prof. Rudy Neydecker from Union. At the end of the training sessions, vol- unteers will be working one on one with a terminally ill patient and their family to help provide emotional support. Anyone interested in further information about the program can contact Prof. Karen Williams at ext. 6062 or the Capital Union Hospice at 3 77-8846. UNION LAUNDRY. 561 NOTTST SCHENECTADY NV 12308 (ACROSS FROII UNION COLI..EGE} OPEN DAILY SAM TO 1 0:30PM FREE DRYING TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS . 8AMT03PM $1 PER WASH, 5TH WASH FREE 1 WASHES FOR $5, 28 WASHES FOR $20. I MAL: (OR DEP0SrT IN OUR StJGGf.S11)N BOX) \ THIS AD TO UNIQN LA\JNOBY FOR A FREE \ WASH. JNCUJDE mJR iw.fE ANO AOORESS. L--~J

{;Jampu~News,.: · .. ·: .. _ · ... ·. ·. · .· - .. _· .. ·:_. ...· \: ·. ·._-,\----:>::; ·- ..... :-.--: · .-.·:_ ·. WlJ~Qtu~r:~w:uieusf,~e-JanL.~·ryJ3,.1997~~~ge_::}~ ~ ' • i' • I. • ' • ' ~ • • • • ' •• ' •· ' ! •' • • \\ The Rejection Test by Stepltanie Kuehn Staff Writer For a mere fee, approximately forty-five students engaged in a workshop this past weekend which oHered more than a lesson in endmance, but also a lesson for life Future goals hold a signifi- cant spot in the lives of most col- lege students. These goals ex- plain why we are here: to learn, to grow, and to discover both who we arc and where we are going once the comforting walls of Union Col.lege are behind LIS. cepted, the test becomes a rejec- tion test The workshop provided infor- mation not only on how to take the MCA T. but on how to focus skills and to interpret infonnation. \You have to think like a doctor,\ I recall him emphasizing over the course of the session. The impor- tance of learning to integrate all the science information pre-med students have accumulated over the years and relating such infor- mation to the human body and to medicine were presented as key Critical thinking was o:t1e of 1he key sources ofemphasisth:mugh- out the workshop. \Dr. Hassu taught the importance o:fcriti·cal thinking in preparing f<Jr d1e MCA T, and, more importa11tly, in becoming a physician.\ said se- nior Carmen McMurtry In addition to the 915 - 5:30 sessions on both Saturday a11d Sunday, Dr. Hassan led a \Vork- shop for fa cui ty on Fr icia y evening and had open houses for studentsfrom9PM-!2A!\1 Satur- day and Sunday. Amongprovid- ing answers to q ucstiuns Dr. Aftab Hassan, Vice President of Academic De- velopment at Williams and Wilkins Educational Ser- vices, I ed the workshop and ''The more you understand tile material from dijferent perspec- tives, the more you will under- stand the material\ about the MCAI <lid other standardized tests, which courses ~~ lJ n ]on prepare students for the MCAT, and what h<Klks contain the best g:Jrep<ua- tory material, Dr. Hassan is a nationally recognized specialist on educational pro- grams who assists students in health professions exams by pro- moting active leaming as the most helpful component to a prepara- tion pi an. He has also authored many books relating to these is- sues oftest preparation. The session began with Dr. Hassan explaining that MCA T stood for Medical College Rejec- tion Test as opposed to Medical College Admissions Test because medical schools use the MCA T as a screen for applicants. Since tl1enumber of applicants rejected far outweighs the number ac- factors in MCAT success. \The more you understand the material from different perspectives, the more you will understand the material,\ said Prof Carol Weisse in Psychobiology class, relating to the information given in the workshop. Understanding Biology, Chem- istry, Physics, etc. at the level of the class itself is not always enough for becoming a doctor of medicine; the person has to be able to apply the principles simul- taneous! y and understand the interconnectedness of all the dis- ciplines. also spoke to students irldividu- ally and provided ad vice ()n choices of major and other per- sonal topics. The workshop was \very i11for- mational - some of the things I would have i1ever learne<l any- where else,\ commented S()p]1o- more El ina Tabenshlak. The experience was n()t I imi ted to upperclassman, however, iJnd neither were the benefits cmd overall satisfaction with the pro- gram. \It was the most inf()nlla- tive workshop I could ever imag- ine having attended,\ c::xprcs sed freshman Michelle Sanc:hez:: Theme House Informational Meeting Interested in living a theme house next year? Come to the iY?formational meeting today, Jun. 2 5 at Y. 3 V ptn tn ihe utd chapel MBA Accounting MBA Health SysteiTis Administration MBA International Management MBA Management One Additional Year of Study For Information Call: 388-6239 Forbidden Fruit Union Students Participate in Hospice Program by Michelle Neier StafJWriter One of the major issues raised on the Union campus is the in- volvement of students in the Schenectady community. As of next week. however. there will he proof that Union students do make ad ifterence in the area The Capital District Hospice located on Union Street in Schenectady sponsors a Patient/ Family Vol- unteer program. With the help of Prof Karen Williams and the Pre- Heulth Program. the Hospice will he holding a training session on campus for the next four weeks. Prof Williams became inter- ested in the program after spe<lk- ing to sophomore Tom Marino Last year as a freshman. Tom be- came involved in the program and informed Prof Williams of his involvement Last spring. Tom took the training course which was given at the llospicc hut he has yet to work with a patient and his/her family On the Patient/ Volunteer Program Tom feels that \f lospice allows you to he who you are. to deal with the struggles of death and dying, and helps you to grow with a smile\ After par- ticipating in the program he has come to undcrst:Jnd death better and sees it as a rtatural part o fl i fc He also feels that llospicc is a great program to introduce fit lure doctors to the idea of caring for a patient <md a family \s emotional needs as well as their medical re- quirements. Om: nfthc students who has registered for the pro- gram says. ~~Although it is a daunting prospect to !~tee a ter- minally ill patient and their fam- ily. I feel lucky to he ahlc to share in one of lifc\s most pDignant moments\ She decided that work with the Capital Union Hospice would be a wonderful opportunity for any students interested in health re- lated professions As a result, at the Volunteers Program, spon- sored by the Pre-llealth Office and the Protestant Cam pus Min- istry. the C.1pital Union Hospice was present and distributed in for- mat ion about their program The Coordinator of Volunteers at the llospice agreed to holding:J train- ing session on campus if at least eight people would participate At this time. Ms. Petterson has received at least eight registration lonns. Along \vith the Union stu- dents, participants will include the spouse of a thculty memher, Prof Williams. and some members of the outside community The eight three hour sessions which will he held on Tuesdavs and Thursdays from January 2R to February 20 will be led hy hoth Coordinators ofVoluntecrsat the Ilospicc. Sharon !!ext and G Ioria Petterson With them will he sta!T from the llospice training tl1e vol- unteers Topics ofthe eight ses- sions \viii focus on topics rang- ing from Philosophy of Hospice Cure. Concept of Death and Dy- ing to Communication Skills, anJ Stress Management Prese!,t at the sessions wil\ be various speak- ers, one of whom is Prof Rudy Ncydeckcr trom Union At the end ofthe training sessions, vol- unteers will he working one on one with a terminally ill patient and their family to help pnH ide emotional surport Anyone interested in further information ahout the program can contact PrLJf Karen Williams at ext. 6062 or the Capital Union llospiceut 377-~846 UNION LAUNDRY. 561 NOTTST SCHENECTADY NY 12308 (ACIIOS$ FROM UNION COLLEGE) OPEN DAIL V SAM TO 10:30PM FREE DRYING TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS 8AMT03PM I am ap,peal-ing to the institict for good sportsmanship within the Union community and aski.l1g that everyone refrain from throwing oranges (or anyth·it=~g else) on the ice during the upcoming h()c'key gam-e. My primary concern is for the safety of players and fans who could be injured, but r <ttn also aware that the practice is offensive to rn.any and diminishes their esteem for the College and thte stud~nt , body. I am told that what is probably tneant as a show of support, has the negative effect of d:israpting the Union team's effort precisely at a moment when they gain critical momentum Finally th-ere is the distressing c•, nsequence of disciplinary action for those who are caught. Anyone wltois cauglzt thr-lJw- ilrg tm orange will be ejected from the game; will lose tlte privilege of attemlbtg game$ in AcJiille~~.ror ' ·tile rest of the season; lmdwill he subject to further discipline depending on tlzecircumstaJJC~ .... $1 PER WASH. 5TH WASH FREE 7 WASHES FOR $5, 28 WASHES FOR $20. J recognize that hockey gatnes are an important community event for hundreds of students a11d appre- ciate the spirited enthusiasm of the fans. I have great confidence in the creativity of Union students c.md have no doubt that they can come up with clever and appropriate alten'latives that will not put \Jthcrs at risk or disrupt the game. Those fans in search ufa more cerebral approach to one-upsmanshiJl might want to coi1sidet the feeling of superiority one derives from ·exercising self-restraint. Frederick Alford Dean ofStudents MAL: 1 (OROEPOSrr INOURSUGGES~eox) , THIS AD TO UNION L.AUNQBY FOR A FREE WASH. INCLUDEYOURNAAfEANDAOORESS. L__ __________ ·-----· --- ----

CiliPnus News · . . · . : - · . · . · 'QJl!c illottrod:tiensi s • Januar}' 23, 1997 • Page 4 . ... Rink continued from page 1 lege spokesman Casey cum- mented, \Funding is the issue. I am sure Union is curious about this. That question, along with others, has not been answered.\ According· to Sunday's Daily Ga- Construction continued from PageL. new building. The 01 in BuHding, which is a cleaner job than the library, will begin con- struction on April 28, and is sup- posed to be finished by Fall of 1998. Shafer said, \Construction for the Olin Building consists of digging a hole, and first setting up a system to prevent Science and Engineering from falling in.\ In response to the 01 in's proposed: hazards and conflicts the campus is planning to isolate the sight from students, while giving them the opportunity to get to and from their destinations without diffi- culty. They are building a luad- ing dock leading into the college center in order to ensure the safety of those students who walk to and from the north of the schooL The two areas of construction have raised various questions among faculty, students and the community. For more infonna- tion, the planning committee for the Olin and library is hoping to have a home page on the web so anyo11e can see the construction, and get weeki y infonnational up- dates on their progress. T h e construction seems to concern students in tenns of the amuunt of noise the machinery will make during the day. · Sophomore. Jaime Froilick said, ''I don't want to bereseatchingfora paper and have the library's walls shake as I try to read. Other students ex- pressed their concems not only about the noise. but the I imited areas in which they will be con- fined to study.· A ram Green, jun- ior said, \I used spend quality studyingatthe library. Now I'm zette, the developer \is already try.ing to get financing.\ The College decision-making process will also be ·effected by such factors assafety and whether or not a move will make sense. This process is guaranteed not to hesitant to go there because 1 can never find a'ql:liet space in which to work. When I walked in, there were three people sitting <mone couch and every cubicle was oc- cupied.\ Since the number of study spaces in the library was reduced by half- to 211 -dur- ing Phase I ofthe building's reno- vation and expansion, the College is making alternative study areas available to students. Besides maintaining many of the couch and cubicle study areas in the li- brary, other places with more room and privacy will be open for extended hours. To accommodate those who need to study. but who may not be using the library's fa- cilities, the other landmarks on campus wi II provide the extra time and space. A I tern at i v e study spaces such as Upperclass Qining Hall will be open for study from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. West Dining Hall will he a new study space and will be open froltl 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. North Colonnade (the tonner Psychology Building) will become an all night study, Also, the first floor classrooms of Social Sciences will be open tor all night study. The hours of the N ott Memorial wi-ll remain the same: th,e third floor study area remains open from noon to I 0 p.m., Sunday thorough Thursday. On Friday and Saturday it is open from nd6n to- 5 p.m. Dean Alford agrees with Bill Shafer in the respect that if all constmction goes according t() plan, no student should be directly affected by. the work. ':~However,\ Schaffer said, \ft might get a little messy and change'the aesthetics of some footwear.\ Besides the winter snow and the soon-to-be upturned gro.tmd; the lnud will undoubt- edly call for footage over fashion. be an open and shut case. With President HuJI traveling for the . betterpartofthis week, it is highly likely that a decisions will not be tendered much before next week Casey commented on the process by stating 1hat \I have not heard anything to discuss that we .{Union} are past the discussion stage.;' There is also a great sentiment around the campus that the stu- dent body is not being able to voice their opinions on this Jnflt- ter. Junior Frank Rossi, DireotGr of Sports for WRUC, who has been criticized by some for h:is on-air colnments regarding the rink, added this idea. 1 'Thestu- dents that fill the sta,nds need the ability to v.oJce theit OJ:liniort. ·we care about the Hockey teaJns-flJ- ture just as much as the adrni11i s- trati on.\ ·While the ·rulrJOrS contin tie 1() float around and the student b()dy remains in question, the hockey players must anxiously sit and wait to l~am the fate of their fu- ture. Stan Moore, head coach of the men '.s hockey team, is con- ceraed about the strain that tlte current proposals are putting on his players. \As a coach, my fi~st c·oncerFs is my players,\ said Moore, \'My job· is to J'o().k over th€ir shaulders forth em. HGW is ~ll ofthispressure going todfect the endoftheir seasoa?\ Important news for peopTe with SINUS PROBLEMS Do you hav~Z the folfO'.It~ing? * jacial pain in the si11u~ 0rrea *Nasal Congestion. * Sinus pain orpressure * Discotorea nasal aischarge IF YOU ARE 18 .OR OLDEII AND &URRENJLl 'EXPERIEN~ING ANY OF THESE SYMPTOMS YOU MAl miJALIFY FOR PARTICIPATION IN A SINUS RESW~If STUDY. Qualifi'ed participan-ts receive- .f-t\e followrng: \ Dr~ visit and study medication crl no charge \' Monetary compensation for tim~ end participation For n.1ore information c:afl · 452.-2510 .or ·1-800 .. 363·3464 ' . f • ' ' ' . • . ~ \ • ' , •• ALLERGY & ASTHMA CENTER'9F ALBANYMED 215 Washington Ave. ,Ext. Albany. NY 12205 '?J·· . , · .Aibar.~ M~icaiCollege VI . . D1VLS1on of Allergy COME INTO MOJO PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGSI lchenactady 1041 State Street 882·6778 - ·.r-5-o_OL_o_F_F_ -.: - --~~- ~-- -s·· 4- ·s--s--·s···· ·5· _o_o_ -O--F-F 1 7U .-I • -_ 1-··. ___ ·.-• I PROCESSING • REPRINTS • 8x1 0 • CLUB I I R. cceive so-\' o.ff dJ. e regular 1 1 . 1 1 . Limit 3 s .. x 10 enlargements. 1 1 Receive ss .. 00 off •.hen I Limit 20 standard size I price of processing aod I I From your 35_ mm color 1 . yo. u pwcba&_e. a cl.ub I fi reprints. From your 3Smm 1 priotmg color print lm. 1 . I negative. 1 .. mem. betshipr M. ust prescn. t 1 color negative. I L.nlit 3 rolls Standard siu prints only· •• I C~om Ci'()pplng may be available alan I COI.iJ:tCil to receave SS.QO off. I I Not valid with other COIIPOf!S or cxtn set Noc valid wilh other coupons or offers addltiolllll c::hat:•c Not valid with Qlhcr . 1 . promotions. Club memben m:erve 1 Clw members receive IO'!'I. coupon pnce 1 coupons or extra se1 promotio.ns. Club I Lin:Ut !)lie per ~n. Not valid with 1 IO'-' coupon price. I I members recei~c 1oe;. coupon price. I ~ coupollS or offers. I I MO'TOPHDTO. I Mb'TOPHOTO. I M'b'TOPHOTO• ·I Mb'TOPHOTOe I ·-------------------------~-------------· tflj ha lit, to pu Pr fo an U1 . la1 pc f~: b) tn· cc B1 Zl E~ re jo pc L< In ar cc tit sl' fa e' e> d< si gJ gt fc la tt bl F

Huggins Comments on the U.S. ... T . . • fF. • P 1·· ra1n1ng · o - .. ·· oretgn .• ·· o Ice .lntetvi'ewedliy Brazilian Mer dill . . . Jody Mous~e-au Professor Martha Ruggins of the Union sociology department has completed a hook ei1titled Po- litical Policing: U.S. Assistance to Foreign Folice which will be published by the Duke University Press later this year. The primary focus ofthe book is to investigate and reveal the actio11s of the United States governrri~nt in re- . lation to the training of fQreign police. On Thursday, January 16, Pro- fessor Huggins was interviewed by two members oftbeBrazilian media in regards to her recently completed - work. TV Bandeirantes, oneoftlte top Bra- . zilian televisioh stati()ns, and Espada de Sao Paulo, a widely read BraziHan newsp.aper, sent journalists to interview Huggins. The book examines a 7-Q year period of U.S. penetration of Latin American police systems. lnfonnatioh from the <:IA, FBI, and Department of State was compiled di1ring an eight year time span, and in many instances she had t9 use the Freec:;lom ofln- formation Act to obtain thy rel- evant information. 011e question examined in the ,book is: What does it mean when our pol ice as- velop many largertraining-orga- nizations. In 1974, training foreign porice became outlawed by Congress. So<?n after, the law v.ras modified Eisenhower years were the result of the anti-cmnmunism era. For this teason, they were legitimized and received a great deal offund- ing. Since the development of sist a military dictators,nip_'? :· ,_ ,. - .. - ~ .. , -\:'~~-.--_.. '--~. -.~ •. ..,....,-,\'\\'· ___.,..~. -'i-__:_=--'\-'~·:.;. ------ As early as 1898, Sinal) pro~ to allow u:s. training of foreign tb-reign police training programs, gnnns were developed ~y,the U.S. _ poljctrfor themeaps of drug con- the U.S. has trained the pol ice government to train 1h.e police trol The.Reagmiadministration forces of several Latin American forces of other countries .. Many. expanded the .. modifications _to C?Ountries, such ~ El Salvador and large programswerebom under also encompass training against ·Guatemala. Someofthetrainees the Eisenhower administration, terrorism. have become assassins or mem- butboomed during the era·of John Many of the lar;gt:ttaining pro- hers of death squads. F. Ken1_1e_dy, whowantedto,de- grams developed ,during the The School of the Americas, located in Fort Benning, Georgia, is probably the most notorious U.S. operation to assist the police of foreign countries. However, shutting down the School of the Americas would only be a «drop in the bucket,\ according to Pro- fessor Huggins. Many simi'lar government operations exist, many of whi.ch never become publicized. The dilemma argued in Huggins' book has many moral and political compone11ts. Ac- cording to Huggins, the U.S. gov- ernment cannot give oti1er police forces so much training and sup- · port without legitimizing their actions. It is also a form of silent in- tervention, which attracts less at- tention than other fonns of inter- vention. In addition, the U.S. often contributes money and training to disreputable police who sometimes beco1ne nation~ alistic and disloyal to the U.S. government. Promoting democracy domes- tically or abroad cannot be ac- complished by fortifyit1g the po- lice forces, according to Huggins. \Democracy will come through citizen participation. Fortifying the police decreases the I ikeli- hood of democracy.\ In a related event, Father Bour- geois, M.M. will be visiting the U.n_ion .campu,s pn Wedn«?s~ay 1 FC?brlJary \2 during a thr~e q~y tour oftl1e. capitalregion, whid1 will be sponsored by the Peace and Justic~.C.ommissic:>n of the Albany Catholic Diocese. He will advocate a closure ofthe School of the Americas. We will have more information on the event as it approaches. • /' I YOU can Maximize YOUR Career Potential -S=\:'· __ _.;_ __ UNIQUE & SPACIOUS S STORY HOUSE ON UNnfERSITI' PL. 9 LUXURY f1JRN~ED BEDROOMS · FREE CABI..£ TV, HBO & ENCORE. TO E\lERY BEDROOM FR££ WASHER & DR'YER 60URM£T FURNISHED KITCHEN $860.00 £A./MO. INCLUDES: H£A T, -HoT WATER&. £1.ECTRIClT'{ PARKINS .OPTIONAL PA V£D BACIO\ARD Yl/SNOYI. REMOV'AL CALL sgs-sa2o with Union's 5-Year MBA Brett Rubin MBA Health Systems Administration '()6 Associate Andersen Consulting New York City \Union's MBA program was a perfect match for mp undergraduate degree in economics and my long ronge goals to work in today's challenging field of health care.\ For information call: 388-6239 Partners to Recieve Benifits Cont'd However, because AIDS is not strictly a homosexual disease, Dean Letriz feels that this argu- ment can be indicative of a homophobic environmt nt. 'The positive recepti-on of Union's administration and staff to · the adoption of this policy may surprise some people, considering our conservative reputation, but the results ofa faculty survey told a different story. The staff was 1:!-iven a survey evaluating the college's health care policy, in- cluding the issue of domestic part- nership benefits, to which the ma- jority of the faculty showed their support. \It was the humane thing to do,\ states Dean Letriz. Thus, when the committee was designed to come up with a working pro- posal for adapting the original policy, President Hull already knew he would be backed by the stati. Other universities, ranging from the large and public to the small and private, have implemented similar policy adaptations as well. The colleges of Oberlin, Rich- mond, Villanova, and Swarthmore have already instated a domestic part11ership benefits clause in their employees' health plan quite suc- cessfully. Together with the sur- vey, President Hull felt confident enough to start the ball rolling here at Union. A committee advocating these benefits was fonnt!d in April, 1995, with Dean Letrizand Linda P1;1triJ< ~s co-Clmirpersol}s,. 1\)eir_ r~­ Sl,llts were pres~ole~ to th~ ,Plan- ning. and Priorities Committee, which is made up of key faculty and administrators who are chosen through the President's office. The fact1.lty voted 'yes' to the proposal to make the appropriate alterations and presented them to the Board ofTrustees, who accepted the pro- posal with a majority vote. The gay and lesbian comrnunity has made progress on this campus by leaps and bounds, culminating to date with what Dean Letriz calls , \the next best thing to the govem- ment recognizing same-sex mar- riages.\ In the past twenty years, the college community has been witness to UBGLAD articles in the newspaper, tl1e recognition of Gay and Lesbian Month (instead of the \day\ or \week\ of the past), and a specific reception for gay and lesbian alumni during Homecom- ing. As for the rest of the nation, the mayor ofSan Francisco issued a statement that \all companies d()ing business with the city must offer domestic partnership ben- efits.\ The capitol region has passed a Domestic Partnership Law, which creates an \assemblance of legality,\ en- abling same-sex couples to have a document similar to a marriage certificate that could hold up in court. While there are people who feel same-sex marriages are \im- moral,\ \sinful and \a sign of misconduct,\ major corporations I ike Disney and Microsoft main- j=======================~tain that not offering health care to someone is even more unchris- Come to the Concordiensis Meeting Thurs- day the 23th at 7~00 in the Newspaper Office tian. As \an institution that ques- tions itself,\ Dean Lctriz is conti- dent that this proactive step \speaks well for the direction ...___ ______________________ ____~ Union is heading.\ ·

OP/ED . . , . . · . · 'illlp.' illmtcornicnsis • Januar , 23, 1997 · Pa e 6 EDITORIAL Sorority Rush: Revisited F~o :a Diffe~en~ ~erspeetive In the past we have wntten edttonals commg down on the .,r .......... ,, .. system froin the perspective ofthose rushing. It seems clear 'lo>nlr£\rl\ fUSh iS a father asinine SyStem from the perspective Of· II ;;lllii:llt:;l . We have made this point in the past and stand by that There is another side to sorority rush which we have neglected in the past but one which is certainly werth discussi.ng Sorority rus~ puts an incredible strain, both mentally and physically· the members ()f each house. Imagine if you will, trying to meet approximately 35 girls in a hal · hour. Neverm iad the fact that you have to try to remember al newpeople'snames, youhaveto try to decide if you want to · 1\''·\''~\r\' with them for life. Ah, but the fun of sorority rush just Over the next three nights you getto meet another 125 otential\ best friends.\ A constant complaint we have heard from sorority sisters is pressure on them to make petty small talk with barely know. Granted, these events are designed to get to le,.but what do you really learn about someone by asking . hometown and major? Another witty and popular ctuesttlonl y is \where do you live on campus?\ Let us tell you, discern a lot about a person by where they live on Incidentally, the preceding sarcasm is not meant to poke fun at or rushees, but rather the circumstances they are forced eet people under. Rush is definitely a word that describes the actions of the mem each house. Sisters must present everything their house has in a few short nights while frantically mo\ing from rushee trying to digest every word and place names with faces. same time~ sisters are expected to be perfect hostesses •r,.,n .. ,mbering to offer the visitors something to snack on while quickly passed around the house. Let's look at the physical ailments of sisters. Sore throats? H These pr<>bably result from constant getting-to-know-yo '\n\'\\r\'\ti''\\ Sore feet? Standing for hours with many .. , .... ,,.rt<.r•• as \is she interested?\ contribute to this rush ailment Overall, it seems to us that the process of rush needs some ''\\\t'\'''\''-\ing. From our conversations with those on both sides of on, no {)lle seems very happy about rush. There must be intelligettt way to meet one another and form associfltions. We challenge those with power over this affair to take the necessarv and revolutionize the rush process. We feel iftl1is are not holdLng our breath) it would be a great benefit to soro embers, rushers and the campus as a wl1ole_ Sorority life at U dismissed by tnany as being superficial. .Perhaps it would be ifficultto label tllese organizations as superficial ifthey were little more I in their · selection methods. -.1. The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 18 77 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Adrian MacLean, Anthony C. LaVecchia, EDITORS-IN-CHIEF David Pinkowitz Diana Sedita D(ECl 171VH EDITORS Conor McKen~ie MANAGING /n)JTOR Stephanie Sloll()tkin NEWS EDJTOJ? Aileen Quigle;y ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR Larry Paska AR1:\i & FNTT:RTAINMI:-NT F.f)JTOR Laurie Kirscbn-er PHOTO HDJTOR Jonathan Gasthalter Chris Leone Sl'OR7:'-..' liDITO/?.S Suzanne l)ougherty NA170NIAI. NliWS HD11VR Chris Leone UYCJfFf' HIJIU Tatiana Cogevina Andy Fradkin C ~OMPU11m MANAGHR Jared Richman HJJI1.0R.!AL C Scott Scullion FACrrT.1'Y AIW!SOI? Raquel Millman · Peter Sorensen FHATURES EIJITORS Amy DiBattista Jennifer Pelose COI'Y EDITO PlfO]'(J(iUAPHFRS Rick Lederer, Michelle Brick, Maria Guinle, Laurel Ruma . S7:4FF .Josh Adams, Kara Christian, .Jamie Chandler, Shana Dangelo, Brandon Declet, Anjali Balasingham, Kelen Barr; Gabriella Dory, Jeff Druzba, Jason Everett, Peter Farnum, Nalini Cupt~. Erika Mancini, Bhavani Meduri,Jody Mousseau, Michelle Neier, Susan Perry, Frank Rossi, Matt SaRdler, Akin Sawyyer, Aaron Sicotte, Michelle Tham, Rawson Thurller, Michelle Vanderloon 0 • • 1n1ons 'JOU TELL ME W\\lC}f 15 MORe OEGR/\\)1~ ~· I ~ ~ ~ Hull: Union's Tricky Pal Robert Cohen Contributing WriUer After receiving many compli~ ments about the article I wrote last week~ I thought it might be nice to write a human interest story. However, I had to put that story off (it will appear later on in the -term) because of a surprising threat that has reappeared this week. This threat is located in the newly renovated Feigenbaum Hall and is called The Office of th.e President. In the past I have been one to criticize President Hull for actions taken in haste against the student population, and _I believe that this particular situatio11 screams, \Criticize me!\ R.mnors, rumors, rumors. They destroy us, infuriate us, intoxicate us, perplex us, and as Union stu- dellts go, they shaft us. The latest rUJnor. that the hockey teams might be moved to an off~cam­ ptts, state-of-the-art location, has the rumor mills running over time. From more than a number ofreliable sources, I have learned that this project is far closer to bei:rtg a done deal than President Hull wants the campus to believe. The Schenectady Gazette re- ported on Sunday that the devel- eper ofthe project has decided to build the $5 million rink, regard- less of whether or not Union sup- ports the project. However, the article .contains one question it does not answer. Where is the cash coming from? Let us brain- storm for a moment. Think big. Think money. Think rundown existing rink. Think cash. Think close. Think money. Th.iiik Union. Hey, it works forme I do not know of any developer will- ing to raise $5 million for a rink i11 which it has no vested interest. So, they did the next best thing. They found one investor-~ Presi- dent Roger Hull. In a previous letter to The Concordiensis, 1 stated that there was a communication gap be- tween the administration and t-he students. The response to that criticism from the admfnistrators with whotn I have spoken since has been more than generous in closing that gap. Unfortunately, it seems to me that unlike the rest of the administrative body, the Office of the President does not have only a communication gap with the student body. It seems . as though there is also a ·lack of respectthat penneates from that officetowardsthe students. That office has pulled the wool over our eyes before, and I fear that it is happening again. Let us take an account and ex- amine the situation thus far. President Hull is approached about building an off-campus state-of-the- art hockey facility, to be shared by our Skating Dutchmen and various hockey organizations in the Schenectady area. According to President Hull, tl1is occurred in November- -not last week, ashe wants many of us to believe. Doing some ba- sic aritlunetic,lt seents as though he waited at least a mor1th and half to spring it on the student body, especially two groups, the men's and women's hockey teams, which are directly in- volved. From speaking with people closely involved with the hockey program, I have come to the understanding that the reac- tion to this plan from the hockey teams was a negative one. The. hockey program here is probably one ()f' the only programs tliat everyqne on campus enjoys. Will this enjoyment continue to tlour- ish if the teams are moved off camptts~ I doubt it. Who kno~s ifthe students and staff will still enjoy free tickets? Who knows ifpeople will want to walk three blocks into Schenectady late at 11igllt to see a game? WelL I guess time will telL and I guess my opini<Jn does not really matter because I will have moved on in my life by the tinie it affects the campus. But these issues are 11ot the real issues. The real issue is the role which the students .play in deci· siot15 that effect the cmnpus com- munity. The track record since I have been. here show~ that they have no role. Not once in my ca- reer here has President Hull held a vote regarding any decision re- lated to student life here. For example, the meal plan, the library expansion, the Nott reno- vation, the Olin Center, and the recent hockey proposal. He fails to understand thatunlike him, stu- dents, for the most part, live, work, and sleep here. These de- cis.ions he makes based upon his preferences and his ego are detri- mental to the students. I am not saying that the Nott, Qrthe library reconstruction, or any major plan in the past few year~ has directly harmed the students, but they do affect our liyes, and we should have input as to how the plans are implemented. We are not only l1ere to get a diploma, weare hereto enjoy our- selves, however, President Hull makes it tough to do that. There- lationship President Hull and I (and the students) have sort of reminds rne of when I was younger and playing any type of game. I thought kids younger than me did not know anyth-ing and could not make any reasonable decisions. Therefore. I told them they were stupid, and I did things my way. h1 my opinion, that is how President Hull tl1inks of the students and this campus, and it ticks me off. Should he not be this grinch I describe him to be, maybe he should start showing the students some respect, I have said things here that may make some people upset and an- gry and some joyous and cheer- ful. Whichever category you are in, demand that President Hull understand how you feel about the hockey plan, or any plans for that matter. Make him hear what you have to say and make him decide something that the campus as a whole feels would be in its best interests. Next thi11g you knchv, GE will approach Union to build state-of-the-art labsdowntown so we can share resources, and Union can footthebill. . - - .... - .... \\ .................. - ~ . ... . - --- - ..,:...~....-..- \\ ] T I I\ rc n tl a b tJ c ll tl \' a \ e t a t I t ' I ~

EDITORIAL Sorority Rush: Revisited From .'l Different Perspective In the past we have written editorials commg down on the~\'''\''\' .. h system frofn the perspective of those rushing. It seems clear rush is a rather asinine system from the perspective of fern ers. We have made this point in the past and stand by that. There is another side to sorority rush which we have neglected ver in the past but one which is certainly worth discussing now. orority rush puts an incredible strain. both mentally and physically the members of each house. Imagine if you will, trying to meet approximately 35 girls in a hal hour. Nevermind the fact that you have to try to remember al new people's names, you have to try to decide if you want to b isters with them for life. Ah. but the fun of sorority rush just begin ere Over the next three nights you get to meet another I 25 of ym1 tential \best friends \ A constant complaint we have heard from sorority sisters is th ontinuous pressure on them to make petty small talk with peopl barely know Granted, these events arc designed to get to kn oplc, but what do you really learn about someone hy asking th ·r hometown and major? Another witty and popular questi arently is \where do you li vc on campus\\ Let us tell you, on discern a lot about a person by where they live on campus Incidentally, the preceding sarcasm is not meant to poke fun at th ·sters or rushees, but rather the circumstances they are forced people under Rush is definitely a word that describes the actions of the f each house Sisters must present everything their !muse hast er in a few short nights while frantically moving from rushee shee trying to digest every word and place names with faces. 1\ same time, sisters are expected to he perfect hostesses b em bering to otTer the visitors something to snack on while quickly passed around the house. Let's look at the physical ailments of sisters. Sore throats') H voices? These probably result from constant getting-to-know-yo conversations. Sore feet? Standing for hours with many worri as \is she interested?\ contribute to this rush ailment OveralL it seems to us that the process of rush needs some serio inking. From our conversations with those on both sides of uction, no one seems very happy about rush There must be intelligent way to meet one another and form associations. We challenge those wtth power over this affair to take the and revolutionize the rush process. We feel if this UL:I..;uJ~I · arc not holding our breath) it would be a great benefit to embers, rushers and the campus as a wl{ole Sorority life at Un is dismissed by many as being superficial. .Perhaps it would hem ifficult to label these organizations as superficial if they were gi little morel in their membersh · selection methods. -J.P,T. The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 18 77 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Adrian MacLean, Anthony C. LaVecchia, EDITORS-IN-CHIEF - David Pinkowitz Diana Sedita FXH ·r 1'/ll'l:' 1:'1>/lON.\' Conor McKenzie MAl\'A( i/lv'(; U>/10R Stephanie Slobotkin NFWS I:'J>flUR Aileen Quigley A,\',)'/,\\fA.\'1' N I:'WS Fl >JJ.( Jl? Larry Paska A/U:'; & J.XIFR lA INA 1/:NJ' !:I>!'/( J R Laurie Kirschner t•!fn m J·.'lmoR .Jonathan (~asthalter Chris Leone Sf'( JlrtS 1:1 J/J( JR.\· Suzanne Dougherty .VA '/10/v'fA/. NHV.'l' J:'J)fl()J? Chris Leone IAWllt Fl>l/01? Tatiana Cogevina Andy Fradkin C '0/\fl'l 11/:R MANAGI:R Jared Richman 1:1>/TON/A/. CA.f{f'(J()N!Sl Scott Scullion. FAl 'lifT'( AIH'!SO/? Raquel Millman Peter Sorensen !·1-.:1 n i JU:S /:'/>flO II.'!. Amy DiB .Jennifer \\'~\''' l 'OI''r' FI>I !'If(}/( J( iNA/' !IFNS Riel< Lederer, !\lie helle Briel•, Maria Guinle, Laurel Ruma S/.H I .Josh Adams, Kara Christian, .Jamie Chandler, Shana Dangel4l, Rrandon Oeclet, Anjali Balasingham, Kelen Barr, Gabriella Dory, Jeff Druzha, .Jason Everett, Peter Farnum, Nalini Gupta, Erika Mancini, Bhavani Meduri, .Jody Mousseau, Michelle Neier, Susan Perry, Frank Rossi, Matt Sandler, Akin Sawyyer, Aaron Sicotte, Michelle Tham, Rawson Thurber, Michelle Vanderloon • • 1n1ons 'IOU TELL ME W\\ICH 15 MO~E DEOAA{)l~ Hull: Union's Tricky Pal Robert Cohen Contributing Writter After receiving many compli- ments about the article I wrote last week, I thought it might be nice to write a human interest story. However, I had to put that story off (it will appear later on in the term) because of a surprising threat that has reappeared this week. This threat is located in the newly renovated Feigenbaum Hall and is called The Office of the President. In the past I have been one to criticize President Hul: for actions taken in haste against the student population. and I believe that this particular situation screams. \Criticize mel\ Rumors, rumors, rumors. They destroy us. infuriate us. intoxicate us, perplex us, and as Union stu- dents go, they shaft us. Tl1e latest rumor, that the hockey teams might be moved to an off-cam- pus, state-of-the-art location, has the rumor mills running over time. From more than a number of rei iable sources, I have leamed that this project is f~1r closer to being a done deal than President Hull wants the campus to believe. The Schenectady Gazette re- ported on Sunday that the devel- oper of the project has decided to build the $5 million rink. regard- less of whether or not Union sup- ports the project However, the artie le contains one question it does not answer Where is the cash coming from 0 Let us brain- storm for a moment Think big Think money Think rundown existing rink Think cash Think close Think money Think lJnton !Icy. it \vorks for me I do not know of anv deveh)pcr will- ing to raise $5 million for a rink tn which it has no vested interest So. they did the next best thing. They found one Invcstm--Pre~t­ dent Roger Hull In a previous letter to The C 'oncordrensis, I stated that there was a communication gap he- tween the administration and the students The response to that criticism from the administrators with whom I have spoken since has been more than generous in closing that gap. Unfortunately, it seems to me that unlike the rest of the administrative body, the Office of the President does not have only a communication gap with the student body. It seems as though there is also a lack of respect that permeates from that office towards the students. That office has pulled the wool over our eyes before, and I fear that it is happening again Let us take an account and ex- amine the situation thus far President Hull is approached Gbout building an off-campus state-of-the- art hockey facility, to he shared by our Skating Dutchmen and Yarious hockey organizations in the Schenectady area. According to President HulL this occurred in November- -not last week, as he wants many of us to believe Doing some ba- sic arithmetic. it seems as though he waited at least a month and half to spring it on the student hody, especially two groups, the men's and women's hockey teams. which are directly in- volved From speaking with people closely involved with the hockey program. I have come to the understanding that the reac- tion to this plan from the hockey teams was a negative one. The hockey program here is probably one of the only programs that everyone on campus enjoys Will this enjoyment continue to flour- ish if the teams arc moved off campus') I doubt it. Who kno\vs if the students and staff will still enjoy free tickets'' Who knows if people \viii want to walk three blocks into Schcnectadv late at ntght to see a game') Well. I guess tune will telL and I guess my opinion docs not really matter because I wi II ha\ c moved on 111 my life hy the time it affects the campus But these issues are not the real issues The real i~~suc is the role which the students play in deci- sions that effect the campus com- munity The track record since I have been here shows that they have 110 role. Not once in my ca- reer l1ere has President Hull held a vote regarding any decision re- lated to student life here. For example, the meal plan, the library expansion, the Nottreno- vation, the Olin Center, and the recent hockey proposal. He fails to understand that unlike him, stu- dents, for the most part, live. work, and sleep here. These de- cisions he makes based upon his preferences and his ego are detri- mental to the students I am not saying that the Nott, or the library reconstruction, or any major plan in tl1e past few years has directly harmed the students, but they do affect <lur lives, and we should have input as to how the plans are impletnented. We are not only here to get a diploma, we are here to enjoy our- selves. however, President Hull makes it tough to do that There- lationship President Hull and I (and the students) have sort of reminds me of when I was younger and playing any type of game. I thought kids younger than me did not know anything and could not make any reasonable decisions. Therefore. I told them they were stupid, and I did things my \.vay In my opinion, that is how President Hull thinks of the students and this campus. and tt ticks tne off Should he not be this grinch I describe him to be, may be he should start showing the students some respect I bave said things here that may make some people upset and <l.n- gry and some joyous and cheer- ful Whichever category you are in. demand that President I lull underst:md hm\· vou feel about the hockey plan. or am rlans for that matter Make him hear \'\hat vou have to ~il) and mukc htm dcctdc something that the campus as a whole feels would he 111 its best interests Next thmg you ktlO\\. Cif will approach t Inion to huild state-of-the-aiilahs downtown so we can share resources, and Union can foot the bill I' 1.· j, \'- p ! i !', ... ,. { ; ) l l ' J i ·I \I I ! l I I ! 1 i, ! ! ·,\ I 1 ·•l ''I ·I I l 1 i \ I ·j f I! ; 1 ~ [ l ! j r n I! I I I) I 1 , I !j f 1 l ! q n q i l t.1 II il ; 1 i i :l ;-1 I· l1 ! I II j'\ p 11 il \ [ ' ! i I I ll 1 (i - l' Tc I < M re nc th ar b~ tn C<: h~ th w ac w el te at hi pj tJ· V\ le a '' : 0 II Sl p fi tl p tl e 11 n d c ( r t I

Page 7 ~ January 23, 1997 · ·miie <!Iu.ucuruirnsis · · · · . . · OP/ED. More on Good Cornmunicati(Jti@union To the Editor, As a cotnp1;1ter science. mgjor, I am compelled to reply to Erika Mancini's recent opinion piece regardiJtg electnmic mail. I wil'l not deny that there are advantages that a handwritten letter has over an e-mail message. However, J believe that the reverse is als() true. Ms. Mancini has beeri ex.- cessively critical of e-mail and has overlooked some of its aes- thetic qualities. being boring, on~ phr.ase comes . to 1nind. ''You have new 1naH.\ What other phrase can_ \)ring such · a thrill to a user when logging into a computer system? Consider this: when checking one's mail at th-e College Center, by the time you know if you have mail at all, you already cart guess the nature ofthe mail, be it a phone bill, junk mail, or apetsonalletter. By con- trast, the simple message, \You have new Ina.il,'' provides no clues as to the nature ofthe mail, . and the possibilities are limitl~ss. · The mail could be from a profes- sor, from your best friend, or from a long-lost relative infonning you of ali inheritance. My final point is regarding the comment that grammatical and spelling errors aremqre common in electronic mail. While this may be true, it is not a reflection of the format so much as it is a teflec- tio.tl of the character of the message's author. Why is it that lmpJications of Moving the Rink Off Campus To the Editor: One perspective was missing from the story in the January 16th Concordiensis on the possibility of a new hockey rink--that ofthe faculty and staff. This group has provided loyal support to Union's hockey program tbr many years, and its voice needs to be heard. I, for one, oppose moving the hockey rink off campus. Shift~ ing our only Division 1 sport from the center of campus to a non- Union site would reduce its im- portance as a unifying element in College life. Sports bring stu- dents, faculty and staff, and Schenectady residents together fora common activity. Hockey, in particular, provides welcome diversion and excitement on cold winter weekends. If it turns out that the students aren't cofnfort- able with the location oft11enew rink, then attendance wi'll suffer - and.campus life will be diinin- ished. And if the hockey players don't feelqnnfortable in the new rink, then recruitment will suffer and the quality of the tean1 may dedine·. Our team could end up playing in a near-empty rink vvi th I ittle supp()rt and low m erale. . But pel!haps the most i m potiant reason tosaveAchilles.istherink itself It's a great place to Vlatch hockey. It's large enough to ac- commodate stLrdents, fac~ty and staff, and local residents, but small enough to till up f(Jr impor- tant games. All the seats feel close to the ice. The wooden bleachers and low wooden ceil- ing allewthe crowd to supporttl1e team with plenty of noise. ?lay- ers from other schools know that Achilles a11d its +ans givetheteam a definite home-ice advantage. A new, larger rink wou'ldn't have the same advantages. At Dartmouth, for example, the seats are plastic and bolted to -the con- crete floor. The roof is much higher than at Achilles. Even a good crowd only fills half the arena, and crowd noise gets lost in the larger space. Changes I ike these would spell the end of U nion'.s home-ice advantage . The College needs to have a full discussion of these issues before the decision is made to build a new rink. The views of the hockey players, students, faculty, and staff need to be taken into account by the administration. A new rink wi.ll be no good if the fans aren't there to fill it. Steven D. Sargent History Department Ms. Mancini states that hand- written letters can \reveal cpar- acter and truth about th~ perso11 writing,\ as if to imply that a11 electronic letter cannot. Admit- tedly, a person's handwriting is an attribute oftheir character-· but there are characteristics of a. personality that are often revealed through electronic mail that one would not see in a handwritten letter. For example, the use or absence of \'emoticons\ or \smileys\ or the use or absence of an electronic signature contain- ing the author's favorite witty sayings or quotations. many people don't care about r----,.--~-----------------------------~ theirgrammarorspeHinginelec- Should Student Forum Decid,e tbe Morals of Union Another argument made for postal letters is the variety .one can find in letters mailed from afar, the difference in envelope or postage. However., it is wrong to think .that there is not variety in electronic mailings. Why are many people in England on a machine called \demon\? Why do the addresses ofstudents at the CVUT in Prague start with X or QQ? Why does all of my e-mai-l pass through a machine called ''Dave\? These are all intriguing issues. With regard to electronic mail tronic mail? The idea that cor- recting errors is difficult may be true on Union's GAR VMS ma- chine, but is false for authors us- ing pine on idol, or Eudora via ResNet. ln fact, it is actually easier to correct errors electroni- cally than in a handwritten letter. In conclusion, I would like to restate that while postal mail has many archaic charms, we should not focus solely on the flaws of electronic mail. For a compari- son to be accurate, we should con- sider both the merits and flaws of each fonnat. Sincerely, Alexander C. Beckers CHET's Ap9.logy The CHET's Committee and the employees at CHET's would like to formally apologize to Union faculty and students who attended Quarter Night last Thursday under the premise that they would receive quarter drafts all night but instead only their first beer was twenty five cents. It was not our intention to mislead the student body in any way and up until a few hours before CHET'sopened that evening, we had planned on selling beers for the entire evening for just a quar- ter a beer. Our intended promo- tion was met with some resistance by the Dean's office and a com- promise was worked out so the bar could remain open with part of the original promotion intact. The night turned out to be a suc- cess but we nonetheless apologize for any inconvenience this might have caused you and we appreci- ate your support and future pa- tronage. Sincerely, The CHET's Committee and its Employees We are writing in response to the recent Student Forum vote which froze the funds of UBGLAD. This club .put up an advertisement for their first meet- ing of the term which depicted two women, one of whom was partially, if not completely, na- ked. This advertisementwas not approved by the Office ofStud~nt Activities before it was displayed in the Campus Center. A few Union students approached the Student Forum to voice concem that the advertisement was offen- sive to their sensibilities. The Forum then passed a motion to freeze UBGLAD's funds on the grounds that the poster was por- nographic and not approved by Student Activities.\ UBGLAD states that they were not noti\fied ofthis financial freeze by the Fo- rum. It is apparent that UBGLAD UBGLAD. We do not bel ievc that the F <Jrum has a right to de- termille what is and w]mt is not offensiv.e to the student body without first posing a matter of this magnitude to the college at large. In doing this, the Forum sent a clear rr\essage to the C()l- lege community that student ·groups d:() not ffave tl1e rigJ1t to address issues that are controver- sial to the campus community. Because UBGLAD's fundsv;ere frozen before they were given proper notice, they were put im- mediately Dn the defensive. They were guilty in the eyes of the Stll- dent Fo1U1n betore they had the chance to prove themselves i11no- cent. Now UBGLAD is i11 an awkward position. Theymustjus- tify their acti.ons to a Student Fo- rum that has already voted against them. We believe that Student Fmtnll acted in haste. A better course of action on the part of the Forum wottld have been to call a meet- ing between the offended stu- dents, UBG LAD, Student Forum and perhaps the Student Activi- ties office. Then, a tair decision could have been agreed upon and a course of action satisfactoiy to each side could have been taken. Instead, Student Forum is left to mop up the mess they left when they took it upon themselves to decide the morals of Union In close we would like tostate that we write this. letter as con- cerned students of Union, not as representatives of UBGLAD or any other student organization. Thank you, Sara Friedman and Michelle Jester '98 Ed. Note: This article was sub- mitted last week. was wrong to put up an unap- .--~--------~-------------- proved sign. However, after UBGLAD Thanks Supporters learning of this incident, we took a stroH through the first floor of . To the editors: theCampusCenterand inspected UBGLAD (Union's BisexuaL the advertisements posted there. Gay, Lesbian Advocates & De- Thereweretheadvertisement'sof fenders) would like to thankat1d two clubs which did not bear the acknowledge the clubs who SLlp- special Student Activities stamp. ported us during our time of cri- W ill these c1 ubs' funds be fmzen sis and controversy. The respcmse as well? ofthesegroups to~ters ourbelief Student Forum overstepped it that, despite years oftradition oth- bounds by freezing the funds of erwise, Union c.an become a queer-friendly campus. The s:up- port we received demonstrates that the Union community :is not as \homophobic\ as UBGLAD, Student Forum, or even Student Activities may have thought. Let us put the actual incident to rest, but let us not bury the vari- ous argutnents and questions that arise from a poster with nipples. As a community we now need to discuss censorship questions, feminist viewpoints, pornography issues, and even our attitudes to- wards sexual diversity. Tl1ese discussions-should not end with the unfreezing of the UBGLAD budget. A I ittle conflict can ben- efit us all if it leads to proa~tive discussion. Thanks again to the folks who expressed overwhelming support. Remember, we meet every Mon- day night at 6·00 p.m in the Multicultural Center; new mem- bers always welcome Peace & Be Glad, Meredith R Miller President, UBGLAD Clarification: ln last week's issue, Lee Rose's quote at the end of the last paragraph of the News . article entitled 11 Student Forum Freezes Funds of UBGLAD'i was incorrectly. unattributed to him. We apologize for this unintentional error.

I Opinion More on Good Communication@union being boring, one phrase comes to mind. \You have new mail'' What other phrase can bring such a thrill to a user when logging into a computer system? Consider this: when checking one's mail at the College Center, by the time you know if you have mail at alL you already can guess the nature ofthe maiL be it a phone bill, junk maiL or a personal letter. By con- trast, the simple message, \You have new mail,\ provides no clues as to the nature ofthe mail, and the possibilities are limitless. The mail could be from a protes- sor, from your best friend, or from a long-lost relative infonning you ofan inheritance. Implications of Moving the Rink Off Campus To the Editor, As a computer science major, I am compelled to reply to Erika Mancini's recent opinion piece regarding electronic mail. I will not deny that there are advantages that a handwritten letter has over an e-mai'l message. However, I believe that the reverse is also true. Ms. Mancini has been ex- cessive! y critical of e-mail and has overlooked some of its aes- thetic qualities To the Editor: One perspective was missing from the story in the January 16th Concordiensis on the possibility of a new hockey nnk--that of the faculty and staff This group has provided loyal support to Union's hockey program for many years, and its voice needs to be heard L for one, oppose moving the hockey rink off cam pus. Shift- ing our only Division I sport from the center of campus to a non- Union site would redLtce its im- portance as a unifying element in College life. Sports bring stu- dents, faculty and staff. and Schenectady residents together for a common activity. Hockey, in particular, provides welcome diversion and excitement on cold that the students aren't comfort- able with the location of the new rink, then attendance wilt suffer ·and campus life will be dimin- ished. And if the hockey players don't feel comfortable in the new rink, then recruitment \vill suffer and the quality of the team may decline. Our team could end up playing in a ncar-empty rink with little support and low morale But perhaps the most important reason to save Achilles is the rink itself. It's a great place to watch hockey. It's large enough to ac- commodate students, faculty and staff, and local residents, hut small enough to fill up for impor- tant games. All the scats feel close to the ice. The wooden bleachers and low wooden ceil- ing allowthecrmvd to support the team with plenty ofnoise. Play- ers from other schools know that winter weekends. If it turns out Achilles and its fans give the team a definite home-ice advantage A new. larger rink wouldn't have the same advantages /\t Dartmouth, for example, the scats arc plastic and bolted to the con- crete tloor. The roof is much higher than at Achilles. Even a good crowd only fills half the arena, and crowd noise gets lost in the larger space. Changes like these would spell the end of Union's home-ice advantage The College needs to have a full discussion ofthese issues before the decision is made to build a new rink. The views of the hockey players, students, facultv, and staff need to he taken into account by the administration A new rink \viii be no good if the fans aren't there to fill it Steven D. Sargent History Department Ms. Mancini states that hand- written letters can \reveal char- acter and truth about the person writing,\ as if to imply that an electronic letter cannot. Admit- tedly, a person's handwriting is an attribute of their character- but there are characteristics of a personality that are often revealed through electronic mail that one would not see in a handwritten letter. For example, the use or absence of \emoticons\ or ''smileys\ or the use or absence of an electronic signature contain- ing the author's favorite witty sayings or quotations. My final point is regarding the comment that grammatical and spelling errors are more common in electronic mail. While this may be true, it is not a reflection of the format so much as it is a (eflec- tion of the character of the message's author. Why is it that many people don't can~ about r------:,------------------------------------ theirgrammarorspellinginelec- Should Student Forum Decide the Morals of Union Another argument made for postal letters is the variety one can find in letters mailed from afar, the difference in envelope or postage. Hov.;ever, it is wrong to think that there is not variety in elcctromc matlings. Why are many people in England on a machine called '·demon\? Why do the ad dresses of students at the CVUT in Prague start with X or QQ') Why does all of my e-mail pass through a machine called \Dave\') These are all intriguing ISSUeS With regard to electronic mail tronic mail\ The idea that cor- recting errors is difficult may be true on Union's GAR VMS ma- chine, but is false for authors us- ing pine on idol, or Eudora via ResNet In fact, it is actually easier to correct errors electroni- cally than in a handwritten letter. In conclusiOn, I would I ike to restate that while postal mail has many archaic charms, we should not focus solely on the flaws of electronic maJI. For a compari- son to be accurate, we should con- sider both the merits and flmvs of each format Sincerely, Alexander C. Beckers CHET's Apology We are \\Titing in response to the recent Student Forum \Ote which froze the funds of UBGLAD. This club put up an advertisement fortheir llrstmcet- ing of the term which depicted two \\Omen, one of whom was partially, if not completely. na- ked. This advertisement was not approved by the Office ofStudent Activities before it was displayed in the Campus Center A lew Union studt:nts approacbcd the Student Forum to vo1ce concern that the advertisement was o!Ten- sivc to their sensibilities The Forum then passed a motion to freeze UBGLAD's funds on the grounds that the poster was por- nographic and not approved by Student Activities· UBGLAD states that they \sere not notific<.l ofthis financial freeze by the Fo- rum. It is apparent that lJ BG LAD UBGLAD W c do not he! ieve that the Forum has a right to de- term inc what is and \Vhat is not offensive to the student hod y \Vithout first posing a matter of this magnitude to the college at large In dtJing this. the Forum sent a clear message to the Col- lege community that student groLJrs do not ftJve the right to addn:ss issues that arc controver- sial to the cumrus COI1111lllllity Because l JBC i LAD's funds were fro1en before the\ were gi,·en proper notice. they \\ere put im- mcdiatelv on the defensive Thev . . were guiltv in the eyes of the Stu- dent Forum hcfnre the~ had the chance to prove themselves inno- cent Now lJB()L;\D is in an awkward position They mustjus- til\ their actions to a Stu<.lent l·o- rum that has already voted against them We helieve that Student Forum acted in haste A better cnursl: lll. action on the part of the Fnrum would ha\e het.'n to call a mel'l- ing hctwecn the offended stu- dents, lJBCii.AD. Student Forum and perhaps the Student Act1' I- ties office TheiL a fair decision could have been agreed upon anJ a course of action satlsfactlHY to each side could have been taken Instead, Student Forum IS left to mor ur the mess they lett when they took it uron themselves to decide the morals of Union In close we would like to state that we wntt: this letter as eon- cerneJ students of l Inion. not as representatiws of llBCILA[) or any other student organization Thank you_ Sara Friedman and Michelle Jester ·l)g !~·d. .Vote. This articlt! \!'aS sub- mitted last wet!k. The CHET's Committee and the employees at CHET's would like to formally apologize to Union faculty and students who attended Quarter Night last Thursday under the premise that they would receive quarter drafts all night hut instead only their first beer '\Vas twenty five cents It was not our intention to mislead the student hody in any way and up until a fc\v hours before CHET's opened that evening, we had planned on selling beers for the entire evening tor .Just a quar- ter a hccr Our intended promo- tion was met with some resistance by the Dean's office and a com- promise was worked out so the bar could remain open with part of the original promotion intact The night turned out to be a suc- cess but we nonetheless apologize for any inconvenience this might have caused you and we appreci- ate your support and future pa- tronage proved sign JIO'\VCVCr. after UBGLAD Thanks Supporters was wrong to put up an unap-~ learning ofth is incident. we took a stroll through the first tloor of 1 \ Tn the edllors theCampusCenterand inspected UBCii.AD (lJn10n's BisC\ual. the advertisements posted there I (iav, Lesbian Advocates & De- There were the advertisement's of fenders) \oulJ I ike to thank and As a cnmmunitv we no\v need to discuss censorship yuestillllS. fcm imst ' iewpomts. pomograrh' issues. and C\en our attitudes tn- \vards sexual diversit\ These discussions should not end w1th the unfreezing of the l'BCil./\D budget A I ittlc conflict can hcn- etlt us aH if it leads to prnactl\l' discussion Sincerely, The CHET's Committee and its Employees two clubs which did not hear the special Student Act iv itics stamp Will these clubs· funds be frozen as wcll' 1 Student Forum overstepped it hounds by freezmg tl1e funds of Letters Policy & Disclaimer Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP/ED page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an ·issue that concerns the Union College community. Final .decisions concerning printing. and/or editing a submission ;belong t() the Editorial, Board. All letters must be sigl!ed and saved on a high density disk although the author's riat:ne need not a.ppear in the newspaper, if tbe writer so specifies. L~~ters do not necessarily refleet the ()pini()n of the l3dit()rial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a maj.ority of the Editorial Board, and no one metnber in, partic,utar. Any opini<ln columns, or cartoons reflt::ct the opinions oftbe writers or artis1s, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Conccwdienvi,., do not necessarily reflect the opinion <>f the Editorial. ~00~ . The Coneordieit\f;s is printed by World Media, 1104 Central Avenue, Albany, NY, 12205. The Cimctwdien~i.l; subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), Nafi<>nal Student News Service, & King Syndicates. 'lj,, .. .., .......... . ac kmm ledge the cl uhs '' hn sup- pnrted us dunng our time or cri- SIS and contruvcrsv The response of' these groups fosters our belief that, desp1te years oftrad ition oth- erwise. lln ion can hccome a queer-friendly campus The sup- port we recei \ed demonstrates that the Union community is not as \homophobic\ as UBGLAD, Student Forum. or even Student Activities may have thought Let us put the actual incident to rest, but let us not bury the vari- ous arguments and questions that arise from a poster with nipples. Thanks again to the folks \'>hn expressed overwhelming support Remember, we meet eYcry Mon- day night at 6 00 p m 111 the Multicultural Ccntec ne\\ mem- hers always welcome Peace & Be Cllad. Meredith R Miller President, UBGI.AD Clarification: In last week's issue. Lee Rose's quote at the end of the last paragraph of the News article entitled \Student Forum Freezes Funds of UBGLAD\ was incorrectly unattributed to him. We apologize for this unintentional error.

Page 8 · J·anuary 23, 1997 · 'GIIp~ Ohntnn-CI-icnsis , . · . , · . Features A we we've made a few more keen ob- servations. Everything is back to nonnal around here, except for the colder weather .and everyone being a lot n:wre out of control. Maybe we all feel like we have to make up for the lack of excite- ment over break. First off, we're so proud of all of our friends that have decided to go dry this term. What, we wonder, is their defini- tiOil of dry? Is it not drinking on weekdays or not drinking in your room?, because we thought it was not drinking at all. Hmmmm, that's funny .... The party scene is raging HARDCORE, despite the freezing temperatures. The funniest thing is that nobody seems to care about the weather. Jackets!? What a silly idea!! We wishwewould have known about the no-jacket requirement. Our moms wouldn't have had to buy those $200 down coats. Besides, walking all the way up campus at 1 a.In. in 20-below temperatures with only a sweater to protect you doesn't really seem that bad ... especially when you know that Vlhen you arrive at the party, Barisilnikov willa! ways be there to cry to about your frozen ex- treni.ities or the fact that Kermit thh1ks you're a psycho; and in~ evitafuly, we always end up tell- ingguys, whether tfiends or com- plete strangers, that they're hot. There's nothing like confessing your love for someone when you're drunk ... until you have to face them the next day. All ofthis can only be topped by how terrific and daisy-fresh you feel the next morning, when you stumble out of bed around noonand head down to West tor the ever-delicious brunch. Brunch there is like a one-way ticket on the <:holesterol express or a trip on the irritable bowel highway. At least the coffee is better than that at the campus center. Why does it taste I ike ass (and not even a nice piece of ass)? Either it's too strong, m , otnon- existent. Where the hell is the happymedjum? Ateleven in.the morning~ all we want is a cup of coffee!! Escort has t~ken on a whole new meaning .. .is it for emergen~ cies only or is it a personal taxi service?? When six people. pHe into a car and the wait is an hour long .... we highly do\,lbtthey need the service forany,thing morethan protectiM from the ·cold. What do you think you are ... special or something?? DUBIOUS! You have to feel the pain .if ymt want to play the game. And trust us.::on the way home you feel a lot less than when you started the night off. It is going to be a long cold winter here at Union.... Don't forget your shoes and bring cof- fee from home ifyou have any desire to actually drink it And remember that the jacket is an ac- cessory optional fot week.end wear so, for the love of God ... STOP CRYING! My Best_Friends, My Snea.kers by Jeffery Druz.ba _ Stllf/Writter Like the average college stu- dent, I received a good number o~ clothing items for Christmas. Of course, getting aHofthat new · :;;tuff means that some old things have to go. l hate doing that though. H~re's where I admit to the amazing bond~ that I share with so1ne clothing. Yes, l'ln ashamed to adrn it that I once owned the same winter coat for five years. From eighth grade until I wentto college, you coldd always count on me to wear the . old red coat with the. unzipped hood resting upon the back. It's : fake white tleece exposed to the world behind me. I loved that coat, which explains why I in- sisted on wearing it for so long. The sadthing is that I knew how unbelievably outof style the coat was all throughout high school. '\Nevertheless the bonds of fabric friendship are stronger than we are aware. I reasoned that since the coat and I had been throt1gh so much together, one of us was going to have to die in order for . is nasty looking, I save it for the _happy memories it corresponds with. Eventually, after it has been· sittjng in a drawer untouched for a few years, I get tid of it with an ache in my heart. · It's strange how we g:row at- tached to certain items. of cloth- ing. Coats have particularmean- ing for me but snel'}kers and shoes are of strange sentimental value to almost everyone. When if s time to get new sneakers, I i nevi- tably get to thinking about how manymilesi'vetraveled intbem, / the places I've gone, and the , things I've done in them. f get nostalgic and sad about having to part with an item that has bee11 nothi:ng but there for me when I needed it. Sneakers get old too though, and eventually their time must come. Shoppin.g for sneakers is odd because, going into the whole thing, I'm thinking, \l know I have to do it but I'll never find a pair of sneakers I ike these ones.\ So, I go to the store and shop and judge every pair of sneakers ag;:1inst the ones I have on and I end up settling for somethiHg in the end. ~---------------~----------------~--1 tiS to break up. Well, after the I put the riew ones on and think, «Man, these will never be · like the other ones.\ One month later, !forget about my old ones. Heck, what was I thinking? These new ones are far better. winter of l1igh school's senior year, it was injured jn a sledding accident. A big tear down the side. A week later, I pronounced the coat dead. After a long grieving period of a few months, I got a new winter coat Sometimes I think about that old red coat though. Man, didllove thatthing. I get a warm feeling just thinking about it (Ha Ha Hooey!). Jeans are strange, too. There comes apoint when they look stu- pid. They're worn in past the point oflooking cool. Back in the eighties, that point was far beyond tl1e current standard. Back then, it was hard for jeans to be too worn out; being lame about your pants was what made them cool. But now, too many holes ineans you're an idiot so there comes-a sad time when you must part with them too. I have this strangehabit ofsav- i11g items of clothing that do11 't t1tjust because they are nostalgic. A T-shirt or sweatshirt trom a fa- vorite place. Even though I'm never going to wear it again be- cause it is I or New sneakers make yoLit feet look bigger too. When I get a new pair of sneakers, I'll be walking around with them, thinking I'm going to trip myself up walking up stairs or something. I still re- member all the pairs of.sneakers I've had over the yearB. The blue Nikes with the zig zag sole, the low top white canvas Nikes, the one year my Mom made me wear a brand called \USA\, the parade of running sneakers ... ah memo- ries, sweet, smelly memories. What is really sad is when you may be-looking .at old photo- graphs of you in that old coat, or jeatls, or sneakers and you get to thinking about how much you loved them. A trickle of sadness runs along your cheek and you remember, you smile, and you fondly remember the goodtimes. It makes you stronger in the end, . but why does it have to hurt so compacl discs, live slum•s, msselfes, viJ~vllp\ 12\ singles, c!i tapes playslation, .\·a/urn, sega, .vnes game.~;·&.\)'.\'/ ems. movies & shao/ in/kung.fil movie.\' also vinyllp~\·, 1 2\ singles(,(: acc:esories ill/ allh<! hestjJricesl I - t t

Another week at Union and we've made a few more keen ob- servations. Everything is back to normal around here, except for the colder weather and everyone being a lot more out of control Maybe we all feel like we have to make up for the lack of excite- ment over break First otl, we 'rc so proud of all of our friends that have decided to go dry this term. What, we wonder, is their defini- tion of dry') Is it not drinking on weekdays or not drinking in your room?, because we thought it was not drinking at all. !Immmm, that\s funny .... The party scene is raging IIARDCORE, despite the freezing temperatures. The funniest thing is that nobody seems to care about the weather. Jackets!') What a silly ideal I We \\ish we would have known about the no-jacket requirement Our moms wouldn't have had to buy those $200 down coats. Besides, walking all the way up campus at I a.m. in 20-below temperatures with only a sweater to protect you doesn't really seen:1 that bad ... especially when you know that when you arrive at the party, Barishnikov will always be there to cry to about your frozen ex- tremities or the fact that Kermit thinks you're a psycho~ and in- evitably, we always end up tell- ing guys, whether friends or com- plete strangers, that they're hot. There's nothing like confessing your love for someone when you're drunk. until you have to fi1ce them the next day. All of this can only be topped by how terrific and daisy-fresh you feel the next mornin·g, when you stumble out of bed around noon and head down to West for the ever-delicious brunch Brunch there is like a one-way ticket on the cholesterol express or a trip on the irritable bowel highway. At least the com~e is better than that at the campus center. Why does it taste like ass (and not even a nice piece of ass)') Either it's T h u r b e r v .tl1 e by Rawson. Thurber too strong, \still in brew,\ or non- existent Where the hell is the happy medium? At eleven in the morning, all we want is a cup of coffee I! Escort has taken on a whole new meaning ... is it for emergen- cies only or is it a personal taxi service' 7 ? When six people pile into a car and the wait is an hour long .... we highly doubt they need the service for anything more than protection from the cold. What do you think you are ... special or something')') DUBIOUS! You have to feel the pain if you want to play the game And trust us ... on the way home you feel a lot less than when you started the night off. It is going to be a long cold winter here at Union .. Don't forget your shoes and bring cof- fee from home ifyou have any desire to actually drink it. And remember that the jacket is an ac- cessory optional for weekend wear so, for the love of God .. STOPCRYINGI As some of us know from last week's paper, UBGLAD's funds were frozen by the Student Forum for posting \offensive\ flyers .slmwing the bare breasts of a woman. I have my own opinions about the Student Forum 'sactions, most of which are positive. But sornethnesthings on this campus are just too enticing not to make ftm of, so here we go! T()p T~n Things That Will Get Your FuudsFro;zeu by th~ Student Forum I 0. Using the word, \boobies\ anywhere in your constitution. 9. Bringing prostitutes to Union as philanthropy. 8. Attempting, at anytime, to shake~ up the statos~quo. 7. Spelling anything with a \Y.\ 6. Not being a straight, white male in a fraternity. 5 Giving the Student Forum President the ''Nazi~sa:lute\ Unfortunately, the funds of\Thurberville'' have been frozen. We are sorry for the inconvenience, and hope to bring you more offensive attempts at Jmmor next week. Than I< you for your patience. My Best Friends, My Sneakers by .Jeffery Druzba Stt~{f Writter Like the average college stu- dent, I received a good number of clothing items for Christmas. Of course, getting all of that new stuff means that some old things have to go I hate doing that though. llere' s where I admit to the amazing bonds that I share with some clothing. Yes, I'm ashamed to admit that I once owned the same 'vvinter coat for five years. From eighth grade until! went to college, you could always count on me to wear the old red coat with the unzipped hood resting upon the back It's fake wh itc fleece exposed to the world behind me. 1 loved that coat, which explains why I in- sisted on wearing it for so long. The sad thing is that 1 knew how unbelievably out of style the coat was all throughout high school Nevertheless, the bonds offabric friendship are stronger than we are aware I reasoned that since the coat and I had been through so much together, one of us was going to have to die in order for us to break up. WelL after the winter of high school's senior year, it was injured in a sledding accident A big tear down the side A week later, I pronounced the coat dead After~ long grieving period of a few months, 1 got a new \sinter coat Sometimes I think about that old red coat tlmugh Mun, did I lU\'e that thing 1 get a warm feeling just thinking ahout it (lb Ha Hooey') .leans are strange. too. There comes a pomt when they look stu- pid They're worn in past the point of looking cool Back in the eighties, that point was ll1r beyond the current standard Back thetL it was hard for jeans to be too \'vOrn out, being lame about your pants was what made them cool. But now. too many holes means you're an idiot so there comes.a sad time when you must part with them too [have this strange habit of sav- ing items of clothing that don't tit just because they are nostalgic A T-shirtor sweatshtrt from a fa- vorite place Even though I'm never going to wear it ugain be- cause it is too small or because it is nasty looking, I save it for the . happy memories it corresponds with. Eventually, after it has been sitting in a drawer untouched for a few years, I get rid of it with an ache in my heart. It's strange how we grow at- tached to certain items. of cloth- ing. Coa~s have particular mean- ing for me but sneakers and shoes are of strange sentimental value to almost everyone. When it's time to get new sneakers, I inevi- tably get to thinking about how many miles I've traveled in them, the places I've gone, and the . things I've done in them. I get nostalgic and sad about having to part with an item that has been nothing but there for me when I needed it. Sneakers get old too though, and eventually their time must come. Shopping for sneakers is odd because, going into the whole thing, I'm thinking, \I know I have to do it but I'll never find a pair of sneakers I ike these ones \ So, I go to the store and shop and judge every pair of sneakers against the ones I have on and I end up settling for something in the end. I put the new ones on and think, \Man these will never be like the other ones.\ One month later, I forget about my old ones Heck, what was I thinking? These new ones are far better. New sneakers make your feet look bigger too. When I get a new pair of sneakers, I' 11 he walking around with them, thinking J\m going to trip myself up walking up stairs or something. I still re- member all the pairs of sneakers I've had over the years. The blue Nikes with the zig zag sole. the low top white canvas Nikes. the one year my Mom made me wear a brand called \USA\, the parade of running sneakers ... ah memo- ries, sweet, smelly memories. What is really sad is when you may be looking at old photo- graphs of you in that old coat, or jeans, or sneakers and you get to thinking about how much you loved them A trickle of sadness runs along your cheek and you remember, you smile, and you fondly remember the good times. It makes you stronger in the end, but why does it have to hurt so much? compact discs.lh•e shoH's, Cl/SSL'IIL'S, l'il~l.f fp\ 12 \singles. c(j tapes p/,~vstation. salllrn, sexa, .mes Kllmes& sv.\·tem.1·. movies & slwolin/kung/it movies also \'iny/ /p' . .,·, /]\ singles & ucce.w Jrit's all utlht• hest tJriL·es!

Featun~s · . · · · WI1e Qhnrrorhieusis ·January 23, 1997 · Page 9. p Was the Student F onnn elected to serve a~ the thought police for the student body? Would a child really be hurt in any way after seeing the pictures of female breasts that were posted on the walls by UBGLAD? Was UBGLAD's gay/lesbian/bisexual nature responsible for the treat· ment they received? These are all questions I ask myself when l think about the poster, put upby UBGLAD,. which resulted in their consequent loss offui'lding from ti.le Student Forum. rn addres~ the latter first. My firstreaction wbeA student foru11! \As much as I love tbe Student Forum'' by Con()r McKenzie censored UBGLAD was that 'UBGLAD was singled eut (at. least subconsciously) because it represents the GLB community. Look at UBGLAD, abr:andnew club that rejJFesents an often dGWtltrodden minority on a con- servative camp.us. Now lool\ at the Student Forum --an elect~d group composed of 2'0 clean- shaven students, none ofwhom are openly GLB,. and a majority of whom belong to traditional fraternities and sororities. It was an easy_ conclusion to draw, and I now believe (and hope) that my initial judgment was false. Talk- ing with a more conservative- minded memberofthe Concordy staff changed my mind. \Look at it this way,\ he said. \What ifChiPsiput up a picture of a topless Hooters girl pn a poster advertising a rush event. They'd pmbably be thrown off campus.\ I saw his point. · Nowthati was more convinced that the Forurn at least attempted to use reason when handing out UBGLAD's sentence, I began to examine their supposed reason· ing. Most Forum memb.ers used the classic argument that they were protecting innoce11t children from damaging printed media. The protection of innocent youth is a difficult motive to deflate. In this case, however, [ am tbrced to wonder whether it possesses any validity. Say you're a six-year-old kid moseying through the college centeron a tour with yourparents. The sun is shining, and the pro- . verbial birds are chirping. Things couldn't be better in your co_m- · pletely innocent and unscathed little mind. Then you run into a poster with postcard sized black and white image of two naked wGmen,. one with her breasts e~­ posed. Puzzled, you S!OP and stare for a bit. They look like those things you used to drink from a few y~:,:ars back. Unsure, you ask your mommy, \What's that?\ C¢rtainly this could create an awkward .situation for your par- ents, but do you see yourself as mentally damaged'J Has your in- nocence been robbed? Will you be talking about this traumatic experience twenty years. from now iti a psychiatrists chair? I doubt it, but, for the sake ofar- gument let's say that these post- ers were damaging to youthful minds. Does the Student Forum have the responsibility to protect these children? Were they even elected to do so, and do they even have the power to do so? The Student Forum is the gov- · eming and funding body for most of Union's clubs and organiza~ tions. They gave UBGLAD money so that they could discuss and represent GLB issues on this campus. Putting up their infa- mous poster did nothing that went against their stated purpose. If anything, it furthered their goals by drawing attention to their pres- ence. Therefore, Student Forum apparently acted because UBGLAD didn't uphold some unwritten notion of\ good taste.\ lnAreopagitica, Milton wrote, \As therefGre the state of man now is, what wisdom can there be fl) choose, what continence to for- bear, without the knowledge of evil?\ In other words, it does not matter whether UBGLAD's poster was in good taste ot in bad. In order to be fully educated, a college student must be exposed to both trash and to classics. To do this he/she must be freely able to both disseminate and to inter- pret any material that he/she chooses. s ket c ·h b ooo ki a nd \GuARANTEEd EVERY riME\ ''The Old Style Tackles the Truth\ by Peter Sorensen Sei Shonagonlived in Japan some thousand years ago. A lady of the court, she also happened to be an excellent writer. Her pieces tended to have titles such as Hate- ful Things, Embarrassing Things, Elegant Things, etc., and they were essentially lists of exactly that. She was wonderfully per- ceptive, and her assessments of various situations are funny and truthful-and even applicable to- day. Her opinions of sexual en- counters come across confuerta in her writing. Much ofwhatshe considers to be \hateful things\ are the tactless and unthinking ac- tions of\certain gentlemen.\ She also wrote a little essay entitled \Pillow-Book which I haven't read, which is evidently along the lines of a how-to manual for young lovers. Look for it in the Library . .;: So in tribute to the enlightened perspective and words of Ms. Shonagon, I offer this bumble se- lection, a 1 ist of sorts, of some day-to- day things that are gener- ally detrimental to our mental health--in other words, our con- .,. stitution. Please note: if the writ- notice that one's.dining compan- ion has already taken a seat. But the d~ning hall is crowded, and the companion has disappeared into a sea effaces-leaving one to stand, at the entrance, search..:·. ing, as if one wished (or hoped). · that one had friends. One has been subjected to the nefarious meal plan, despite one's residence in a greek organization. Dining services has experi- mented with a new recipe, and out oflmnger, one has been the will- · ing guinea pig. Due to the na~ ture of .student life, such amis- take is fated to repeat itself(with . or without one's consent), at the· expe11se of one's stomach. One's professors have as- signed enough work to last until June, but they expect to see it · complete by the end ofthe week. One has had a great time at a . party and met a very attractive person, only to lose sight of said pers.on in the course of the evening.. Buf the next morning, thafperson is seen at brunch with one'sacquaintance,\both looking· . as if they had just rolled out of bed(!); and even worse if, upon returning home, one touched one- ~el r before retiring for the . evening! Class at 8:40a.m. is, by defi- nitio·fl, bad for one's constitution. MAKE YOUR MEGA MOVE_ TODAY! --+the dutch hollo~ restauran~----- ing seems strangely formal, it is because I have imitated her style as best I could. One's significant other has dis-;::=========================::::========::; Things That Are Bad For Your Constitution: covered \Pillow Book\ under one's bed. At a party, one has had the misfortune of angering a larger. and more testosterone-laced in- dividual. Theself-proclaimed ri- val has presented ihe 1J.ltimatum · of(a) walking away, tail between • l & ·2 Bedroom Apartments Starting at $400 a month + utilities. Walk-in closets and lots of storage space. Walking distance to Union campus and to Ellis Hospital. Call 1- 518-432~ 7574. One is talking to a friend in a public place, and the friend has a terrible case of \wandering eye.\ As ifsomeoneelsewetemore de- sirable· to talk to than yourself! This is especially annoying when the friend is a significant other or a memberofthe opposite sex. le~~~)~vuehlowstothe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ face. Inevitably, choice (a) pre- One has just created one's salad and is ready to eat, only to vails, though the unprintable son · of an obscenity should himself receive (b) or th~ like. HEY. You kNow you WANT ro M~kE MoM & DAd pRoud. Do iT iN pRiNT. WniTE FoR fEATUREs. Unfurnished One-Bedroom Apartments For Rent Range $375-$425. All utilities included. Call Salvatore Dental Offices, 9-5 p.m. wyekdays at 393-.3604. First, last, and security deposit required.

p Was the Student Fonnn elected to serve as the thought police for the student body? Would a child really be hurt in any way after seeing the pictures of female breasts that were posted on the walls by UBGLAD? Was UBGLAD's gay/lesbian/bisexual nature responsible for the treat- ment they received? These are all questions I ask myself when I think about the poster, put up by UBGLAD, which resulted in their consequent loss of funding from the Student Forum. I' 11 address the latter first. My first reaction when student forum \As much as I love the Student Forum\ by Conor McKenzie censored UBGLAD was that UBGLAD was singled out (at least subconsciously) because it represents the GLB comnum.ity. Look at UBGLAD, a brand new club that represents an often downtrodden minority on a con- servative campus. Now look at the Student Forum --an elected group composed of 20 dean- shaven students, none ofwhom are openly GLB, and a majority of whom belong to traditional fraternities and sororities. It was an easy conclusion to draw, and I now believe (and hcipe) that my initial judgment was false. Talk- s ket c h b ooo kl a nd \GuARANTEEd EVERY riME\ \The Old Style Tackles the Truth'' by Peter Sorensen Sei Shonagon lived in Japan some thousand years ago. A lady of the court, she also happened to be an excellent writer. Her pieces tended to have titles such as Hate- ful Things, Embarrassing Things, Elegant Things, etc., and they were essentially lists of exactly that. She was wonderfully per- ceptive, and her assessments of various situations are funny and truthful-and even applicable to- day. Her opinions of sexual en- counters come across confuer::a in her writing. Much of what she considers to be \hateful things\ are the tactless and unthinking ac- tions of\certain gentlemen ... She also wrote a 1 ittle essay entitled \Pillow-Book which I haven't read. which is evidently along the lines of a how-to manual for young lovers. Look for it in the Library. notice that one's dining compan- ion has already taken a seat. But the dining hall is crowded, and the companion has disappeared into a sea of faces-leaving one to stand, at the entrance, search- ing, as if one wished (or hoped) that one had friends. One has been subjected to the nefarious meal plan. despite one's residence in a greek organization. Dining services has experi- mented with a new recipe, and out of hunger, one has been the will- ing guinea pig. Due to the na- ture of student life, such a mis- take is fated to repeat itscl f (with or without one's consent), at the expense of one's stomach. One's professors have as- signed enough work to last until June, but they expect to see it complete by the end ofthe week. One has had a great time at a party and met a very attractive person, only to lose sight of said person in the course of the evening. But the next morning, that person is seen at brunch with one's acquaintance, both looking as if they had just rolled out of bed (! )~ and even worse if, upon retuming home, one touched one- self before retiring for the evening! Class at 8\40 a.m. is, by defi- nition, bad for one's constitution. ing witl1 a more conservative- minded rnemberofthe Concordy staff changed my mind. ''Look at it this way , 11 he said. II What if Chi Psi put up a picture of a top less Hooters girl on a poster ndvertising a rush event. They'd probably be thrown otT campus\ I saw his point. Now that I was more convinced that the Forum at least attempted to usc renson when handing out UBGLAD's sentence, I began to examine their supposed reason- ing M()st Forum members used the classic argument that they were protecting innocc!'~ children from dmnaging printed media. The protection of innocent youth is a difticult motive to deflate. In this case, however, I am forced to wonder whether i't possesses any validity. Say you're a six-year-old kid moseying through the college center on a tour with your parents. The sun is shining, and the pro- verbial birdsarechirping. Things couldn't be better in your c~m- pletely innocent and unscathed little mind Then you run into a poster with postcard sized black and white image of t\vo naked women, one with her hrcasts ex- posed Puzzled, you stop and stare for a hit. They look like those things you used to drink from a few years hack Unsure, you ask your mommy. \What's that'J\ Certainly this could create an awkward situation for your par- ents. but do you see yourself as mentally damaged') lias your in- nocence heen robbed') Will you be talking about this traumatic experience twenty years from now in a psychiatrists chair') I doubt it, but, for the sake of ar- gument let's say that these post- ers were damaging to youthful minds Does the Student Forum have the responsihil ity to protect these children'' Were they even elected to do so, and do they even have the power to do so 0 The Student Forum is the gov- erning and funding body fur most of Union's clubs and organiza- tions They gave lJBGI.i\D money so that they could discuss and represent GLB issues on thts campus Putting up their m fa- mous poster did nothing that went against their stated purpose If anything. it furthered their goals by drawing attention to their pres- ence. Therefore, Student Forum apparently acted because UBGLAD didn't uphold some unwritten notion of\ good taste\ In Areopagitica. Milton wrote, II As therefore the state of man now is, what wisdom can there be tq choose, what continence to for- bear, without the knowledge of eviJ?\ In other words, it docs not matter whether UBGLAD's poster was in good taste or in had In order to be fully educated, a college student must he exposed to both trash and to classics To do this he/she must be freely ahlc to both disseminate and to inter- pret any material that he/she chooses MAKE YOUR MEGA MOVE TODAY! ------+the dutch hollovv-- restauran..___ __ _ So in tribute to the enlightened perspective and words of Ms. Shonagon, I offer this humble se- lection, a list of sorts, of some day-to- day things that are gener- ally detrimental to our mental health--in other words, our con- stitution. Please note: ifthe writ- ing seems strangely formal, it is because I have imitated her style as best I could. One's significm)t other has dis- ;::=====================================:', Things That Are Bad For Your Constitution: covered \Pillow Book\ under one's bed. At a party, one has had the misfortune of angering a larger and more testosterone-laced in- dividuaL The self-proclaimed ri- val has presented the ultimatum of(a) walking away, tail between \' 1 & 2 Bedroom Apartments Starting at $400 a month+ utilities. Walk-in closets and lots of storage space. Walkjng distance to Union campus and to Ellis Hospital. Call 1- 518-432-7574. One is talking to a friend in a public place, and the friend has a terrible case of \wandering eye.\ As if someone else were more de- sirable· to talk to than yourself! This is especially annoying when the friend is a significant other or a member ofthe opposite sex lc~or(b)~vereblows~ ilie~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ face Inevitably, choice (a) pre- One has just created one's salad and is ready to eat, only to vails, though the unprintable son of an obscenity should himself receive (b) or the like. HE)'. You kNow you WANT TO MAkE MoM & DAd pRoud. Do ir iN pRiNT. WRiTE FoR FEATURES. Unfurnished One-Bedroom Apartments For Rent Range $375-$425. All utilities included. Call Salvatore Dental Offices, 9-5 p.m. w~ekdays at 393-3604. First last. and security deposit required.

Puge 10 • January 23, i997 • Wl~c. Qhntnn·Meuziz - · . · Arts & {ntertainment -·Eddie Murphy ·:Stretches Action For.mula .. Boundaries in Beverly Hills Cop.Clon.e· Aa Exhibition ~fPainting by famela Avril Cott,rtesy of Vi$Ulll Arts Dept; The Department ofVisual Arts at U11ion 01 liege announces an exhib.itionoflarge and s111all scale paintings :and drawings by .artist \Metro.\ Starring Eddie Murphy, Michael Rapaport, Michael Wincott, Carmen Ejogo. Directed by Thomas Carter. to justify Hollywoocfs label ofbe- ish accent, puts. on his best \I wilf' megabm11b, Cop Ill, but since Pamela Avril. Avril, whoc'urrently ing \creatively bankrupt.\ The avenge my partfler's death!, Metro is11'tco11cemed withdevel- lives and w<Hks in Willow, New dumb-and-dumber plot features scowl, and helps pad. the film's. oping the afore1nentioned charac\ York,.hasb-een actively exhibiting Murphy as ace hostage negotia- two-hour running time by getting ters, anyw~y ,itco:uldhave at least her w<lrk for 15 years.· Rated R. Touchstone Pictures. Rating: * (out of four) tor Scott Roper, who is suppos- involved in a lengthy afld mildly worked with Murphy fine-tuning Par-nela Avril's oil paintings edly good at getting any hostage entertaining trolley car chase his Alex Fe ley character nicely. evokedra1natic landscapes while crisis ended. In the film's blandly~ through the city. As i,t stands,. Metro knows you'll maintain in..g a strong connection staged hostage-situation-in-a- Rapaport plays Murphy's new never seethese t1gures again in a . to paill:terly abstraction. Their Yet another series of endless bank opening, Roper defuses the partner; a former SWAT officer sequel, so it throws potentially • thick.,.s-w<loping lines f()r!Tl switl- car chases, loud explosions, and scenario in a few seconds, with whose specialty includes reading :interestingch aracters like Roper · ing de 11sities of color; com- senseless mass killings, Metro the help of a bag .of doughnuts, people's lips. As in James Bond right out tl:te creative window. pressed ftnms surge across the puts the recently re-emerging ca- some vulgarities, and a sweat-free movies, such adeviceonly comes Murphy only draws laughs when canvas., suggesting both the ex- reer of comic Murphy into back- complexion. in handy during the film's climax. his dialogue is peppered withvati- temalf<Jrces ofnatttre and the un- spin once again. What stumps The screenplay, which'isa step- Wincott (Strange Days, The ous vulgarities; ashame, consid- seen 'Norl<i11gs ofour innerbeing. evetyonethemostiswhy Murphy, by-step guide to action mayhem Crow) uses his scratchy voice to ering that bis action scenes are The ]a(ge drawings seem to whq rediscovered his roots in the writing, follows Roper's adven- an advantage, as the only actor so tiresome. rnapoLttpossihilities for the paint- stupid yet likable The Nutty Pro- tures as he:. a.) tries to win back here trying to play a menacing (al- Under former TV -d i,rector ings, c]ar,ifying the rei ationship jess or, would choose such trash his estrangedgirlfriend(played by though redundant) villain. He's a . Carter's.direc.tion, the movie fea- betwee11 the artist's initial impulse as his next project. Murphy Ejogo, in her first American role), jewel thief who, yep!, wants his tures many weird camera move- and her finished work. The works should have realized he became a b.) avenge his partner's murder, money! ments and a bland musical score · on paper have a remarkable and hit again because of his comedic and c.) attempt to stop the bad Because Metro bears. much re- that stoppecl <ttternpting to be riv- delign tful spontaneity. The talents, not through his ability to guy by causing havoc and car semblance to a rejected Beverly eting after tl1e opening credits. artist's h~nd a gesture are clearly hold a gun and stalk the streets of pile-ups on every major street in Hills Cop script sequel, and lacks The main title design is. actually seen~ a:s are the sources for the San Francisco with an angry grunt the Bay City. Togo through these any sort of humor, it would have the most ir~teresting part of the organicirnagery that characterizes - and a foulmouth. three- key staples of any Ameri- worked by being retooled and whole movie, so start viewing both d'raVIings and paintings. Murphy's career move aside, can-made action flick, Roper molded into Beverly Hills Cop 4. Metro, an<i walk to another the~· Avril has shown her work ex- Metro has a script which serves mocks his girl friend's thick Brit- Sure, the series died with 1994's ater and catduomething better. tensively on the East Coast. The r-~--------------~-------~-~--~-- .......................................... ,.,..,...,,...,=,.,.,.,..,..==-\\\\\=\\\\'\\\'1 exhibitic>n continues in the Arts .. ~,. ·<· discu:; s her work in the Arts ~-~~'~;~~~M~~~nwy•~~~~~~~~:;~~-~~~·~~~~M·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Atriumat~GOPMonThu~dav. inent collaborator, will pr~scnt a reading of his poetry and prose reminiscences of her work with the playwright at 7:30PM in the Museu.·m Theatre. West Gallery of the New,York St~te..Museum in . The event is free and open to the public. n.JM•'\. 23~JANUARY24 Open AudiJiomi ~re being held at the Ski9mor~ }hea~er on Thurs- andFriday,January 23 and24. from 6:30to ln:OOPM in the Studio 11eatterin the Janet Kinghom Bemhard Theater; Skidmore College, Saratoga Springs. NY. The production season includes the world pre- . ofTHE IMP OF SIMPLICITY by Erik Ehn, directed by Artist~in- tRe>idet~ce Scott feldsher, and Franz Kafka's THE TRIAL adapted and ldir~ecteKlby Larry Opitz. Call ( 518) 584-5000, ext 2344 tor an appoint- and further infonnation. TIJRDA Y,JANUARY 25 Patti LuPone on Broadway comes to Proctor's Theatre at 8 PM. ony Award~wi1ming Patti LuPone both grips and amuses the audi- as her gutsy voice fills the house and her spoken material will nmtKe• you roar with laughter. Patti LuPone lights up the stage as .her one woman show proves to truly unforgettable. Lt:lPone.brings down the house with songs the roles thatmadeherfi:unous: \Don'tCry For Me, Argentina,\ Dreamed a Dream,\ and \1 Get a Kick OutofYou.\ The production so includes songs from Sunset Boulevard and Oliver! TI1e first act a remarkable mix of songsby Cole Porter, Irving Berlin,. and Stephen . . The second act is a catalog ofLuPone'sown theater hits. between-song patter and amusing anecdotes of LuPone' s history n the theater brings some comedy to the show as well. Each mentiQn a LuPone role leads into the appropriate fong. Tickets for Patti LuPone on Broadway are $42.50~$2950. Tickets are_ avaJitaoJeat Proctor's Box Office by calling (518) 346~6204 and at all icketl'llfas~ter locations. Januar) JO The artist's talk wfll ,.,.,,,.,,,,~ -,,,,,, \-'·· ! .,., ,.,.,,.,,,,,,,\'··' be foli<JV\Cd hy a closi11g recep- of people, events, and issues surrountling the . bany as the permanent home of New York State g.<Jvemment in 1797. The exhi~!talso exptqre!:) the life ofthe dty of AIIJ~ny at the time <lfthe 1897 celebratiorl of the centennial of the Capital itt Albany~~ Tfie eilpi• tal Comes to Albany draws on a selection of portraits, photographs, docwnents, and objects from coltectim1s oftlte Albany Institute. The exhibit also examines the society and cttlttlre in Albany at t~ie end of the 1 &th century. h win be on view i11.tfue .Albany.lnst!'tute~s · South Gaflery through June {, 1997. The Albany Institute cifHistory & Art is loc~te! at 125 Washh1gton Avenue i'ndowntownAibany.· Call (518)463-4478 forintbnnation,. ALSOATTHEALBANY INSTITUTE OF HISTORY & ART .~anuary 18-March 2: Marble Dust and Magic bakes: American SandpaperPabdingsfromthe{:?oltettioJH)fRanllall-alld,Jfany,aMolton; A ma;jor folk act exhibition, focusing oo !9tkl £enJ;uzy charcoal and pastel drawings on sandpaper, East& WestGatleries,Main Hall,- January !&~March 2: Mat facultySbow. Worl<s by regional artists who are also instructors in the Albany Institute's Museum Art Class· and Art Partners programs. Mi\C.Gall~ery. · :January 25~April 13: LeCln Marcotte: 19th Ce11tury CabinetMaker and Interior Dee orator. Features an importat1t Sllite of c. 1865 Lottis XVI furniture desi~neq and 111anui~ctuted by the french-born cabi- net-maker Leon Marcotte ( 1824-1887), along with Eastman Johnson ·paintingdepietil'lg a' piece ofthe thrniture. tionfrOln 4·0(] PM to') ~flPM The talk and reception are free and open to the pub I ic. Tim Olsen Trio to Perform at Union Courtesy of P\ttj'ormi11g Arts Dept. As.partofits \Something Old. Som etJ1i11g New. Something Bor- rov .. ed. ~om ething Blue\ Facultv Concert Series, the Departrnent of Perfom1 i1ig Arts at Union College presertts composer. pianist. and trumpeter Tim Olsen~ and his trio in conceit on Friday, January 24 at 8 00 .PM in the Yulman Theater. This C(]ncert is free and open to thepublic. The gnur will also give a pre- concert talk ()11 Friday .. January 24 at 140 PM in the Arts Bu ildmg, Ro01n 215 .. <.md present a jazz im- ATTHEALBANY CENTEROALLERJES provi><lt i()n workshop on Satur- Januruy l7~Febmary 28: The Mohawk Huds!}n Regional Invitational, dav .. hnua J\' ~ 5 from I 0 00 AM to feattJring work by Judith Brust Steve Perkins, andThClmas Sarrantm1io. I I ) 0 i\ tv1 in the 1\ rts Building. intheLeslieUrbachGaUery. . Room 3 13 These events are also Jjtnuary l7·Februa\)l 28: Paintings by Gerri Pugliese MO.ore~ in the free and open to the puh I ic UpstairsGallery. Ti1n 01 sen JOined the Union The Albany Center Galleries are located at tl1ecO'mer of Chap-eland facuhyas Visiting Assistant Pro- Monr.QeStreetstndowntowh Albany, for, 1 n:ct'e .iliti:ilr:t'llat,iom<i!aU(SUI) t'essor ofPerfonn ing Arts in Sep- The Albany Institute ofHistor.y & Art is celebrating the bicent~n~ 462-47?$. tember 1 l194 and is active in both ~~\\\\'\\\\\\\'\\\\\'\\'\\\\\\\'..._~\\\\\\-...--~~---..-..----- ......... -........,_,.,.....-,.,.,.,.._.........,~~ ......... ~-........;.;~..,_,;.,.,...~----\\\\'~~__..~ 4 jazz: and classical music At ***SPRING BREAK 1997*** erica 's #1 Spring Break Company! Sell 15 trips and travel free! ancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, Janaica or Florida! 11 O%· Lowes~ Price uarantee! Call Now! TAKE-A-BREAK (800) 95-BREAK·! Unio11:, Professor Olsen teaches courses i11 American music (with an emphasis on jazz) and music the()ry; he also directs the Union Coll-ege 'Jazz Ensemble. In addi- tion to Tim Olsen on piano and tnun~>et, tlte ensemble features Tim ~()ran-en saxoph()neand Jeff Fuller ott bass. For further information. please ~------------------!\\\\---------.....-..------------~ call3g~~2()l. I • ( a s s s 2 tl . s -~ \) tl l tl r (

.. ,\tetra. \ ;.,·tarring E::ddie ,\!urphy. Michael Rapaport. .\!ichael Wincott. Carmen Ejogo. Directed by Thomas Carter. Rated R. Touchstone Pictures. Rating: * (out offour) Yet another series of end less car chases. loud explosions. and senseless mass killings, ,\.fetro puts the recently re-emerging ca- reer of comic Murphy into hack- spin once again What stumps everyone the most is why l'vlurphy. who rediscovered his roots in the stupid yet I ikahle Thf! .Vutt.v f'rv- fessur. \H)uld choose such trash as his next project Murphy should h~n creal ized he became a hit again because of his comedic talents. not through his ahility to hold a gun and stalk the streets of San francisco with an angry grunt and a foul mouth to justify Hollywood's label ofbe- ing ''creatively bankrupt\ The dut'B h-and-dumber plot features Murphy as ace hostage negotia- tor Scott Roper, who is suppos- edly good at getting any hostage crisis ended. In thctilm 's blandly- staged hostage- situation-in-a- hank opening. Roper defuses the scenario in a few seconds. with the help of a bag of doughnuts, some vulgarities, and a sweat-free complexion Eddie Murphy Stretches Action Formula Boundaries in Beverly Hills Cop Clone ish accent puts on his best \I wilr avenge my partner's death'\ scowl, and helps pad the film's two-hour running time by getting involved in a lengthy and mildly entertaining trolley car chase through the city Rapaport plays Murphy's new partner. a former SWAT officer whose specialty inc I udes reading people's I ips. J\s in James Bond movies, such a device only comes in handy during the film's climax Wincott (.Strange Da.vs. The Crow) uses his scratchy voice to an advantage, as the only actor here trying to play a menacing (al- though redundant) villa in lie's a jewel thief who, yep', wants his money' Because Mf!tro bears much re- scmhlance to a rejected Hererly 1/i/lsCop script sequeL and lacks any sort of humor. it would have worked hy· heing retooled and molded into Bever~v I fills Cop ..f Sure. the series died with 1994's megabomb. Cop 1!1, but since Metro isn't concerned with devel- oping the aforementioned charac- ters. anyway. it could have at least worked with Murphy fine-tuning his /\lex Foley character nicely As it stands, Metro knows you'll never sec these figures again in a sequel, so it throws potentially interesting characters like Roper right out the creative window Murphy only draws laughs when his dialogue is peppered with vari- ous vulgarities~ a shame, consid- ering that his action scenes arc so tiresome Under former TV -tl irector Carter's direction. the movie fea- tures many weird camera move- ments and a bland musical score that stopped attempting to he riv- eting after the opening credits. The main title design is actually the most interesting part of the whole movie. so start \·iewing Metro. and walk to another the- ater and catch something better An Exhibition of Painting by Pamela Avril Courtesy of Visual Arts Dept. The Department of Visual Arts at Union College announces an exhibition oflargc and small scale paintings and drawings by artist Pamela Avril. Avril, who c'urrently lives and works in Willow, New York. has been actively exhibiting her work for 15 years. Pamela Avril's oil paintings evoke dramatic landscapes while maintaining a strong connection to painterly abstraction Their thick. swoopmg I ines form swirl- ing densities of color~ com- pressed forms surge across the canvas. suggesting both the ex- ternal forces of nature and the un- seen workings of our inner being The large drav.:ings seem to map out possibilities tor the paint- ings. clarifying the rclattonship between the artist's initial impulse and her finished work The works on paper have a remarkable and delightful spontaneity The artist's hand a gesture arc clearly seen. as arc the sources for the organic imagery that characterizes hnth drm\ings and paintings Avril has shown her work ex- tensively on the East Coast. The Murphy's career move astde, Metro has a script which serves The screenpl<:~y. which is a step- hy-step guide to action mayhem \\riling, foliO\vs Roper's adven- tures ~s he a ) tries to vvin hack his estranged girlfriend (played by Fjogo. in her first American role). h ) avenge his partner's murder. and c.) attempt to stop the had guy hy causing havoc and car pile-ups on every major street in the Day City To go through these three kev staples of any Amcri- caJHnadc action !lick, Roper mods hts girlfncnd · s thick Brit- r-----------------------------------------------------1 exhibition wntinues in the Arts l.©Cal FRJDA Y,JANUARY24 British actress Billie Whitelaw, playwright San1uel Beckett· s .pte- 1cminent collaborator. will present a rc::1ding of his poetry and prose and reminiscences ofher work with the playwright at 7:30PM in the Museum Theatre, West Gallery of the Ncw,York State Museum in Albany. The event is free and open totl1e public. JANUARY 23-JANUARY 24 Arts Calendar nial ofthe City of Albany serving as the New York State capital with The Capital Comes to Al:bany, a new exhibition presenting the stories of people, events, and issues surtoundirig the establishment of Al- bany as the permanent home of New York State govm11ment in 179/. The exhibit also·exploresthe life of the city of Albany at thetimeofthe 1897 celebration of the centennial of the Capital in Albany. The Capi- tal Comes to Albany draws on a selection of portraits, photogtaphs. documents, and objects from collections ofthe Albany Institute. Tl1e exhibit also examines the society and culture in Albany at the end of the 18th century. It will be on view in the Albany Institute's South GaHerythrough June I, 1997. The Albany Institute ofHistory & Art is located at 125 Washington A venue itHiowntown Albany. Call (518 }463-4478 for intonnation. Building through Thursday. Janu- ary 30 !\Hi I \\·ill he present to discuss her \\'Ork in the Arts Atrium at 3 ()()PM on Thursdav. .January 3() Tlw arttst's talk will he followed h\ a closing recer- tton trom 4 no PM to 5 )Cl PM The talk and reception nH' free and open to the pub! ic Tim Olsen Trio to Perform at Union Courtesy of Performing Arls Dept. As part of its ·'Something Old. Open Auditions are being held at theSkidmere Theater on Thurs· day and Friday, January 23 and 24, from6: 30 to I 0:00: PM in the Studio Theater in the Janet Kinghorn Bernhard Theater, Skidmore College. Saratoga Springs, NY. The production season inciLJdesthe world pre- miere ofTHE lMP'OF SIMPLICITY by Erik Elm, directed by Artist-in- Residence Scott Feldsher, and Franz Katlm 's n IE TR.IAL adapted and directed by Larry Opitz. CaH (518) 584-5000. ext. 2344 tor an appoint- ment and further inNmnation. ALSOATTHE ALBANYINSTITUTEOF HISTORY& ART • 1 Somethtng Nc\\, Something Bor- .!anuary 18-Marc:h 2. Marble Dust and Magic Lnkes: American · rowt•d Som~thing 'Riut•\ F;1cult' Sandpaper Paifttings from theCollection ofRandalland Tanya Holton: • Concert Series. the Department of SA TURDA YJANUARY25 A 1najor folk art exhibition focusing on 19th century charcoal and Perlonning Arts at Union College Patti LuPone on B•·oadway comes tn [>roctor' s 'Theatre at 8 PM. pastel drawings on sandpaper. East & WestGaUeries, Main Hall. presents composer. pianist and Tony Award-winning Patti LuPone hoth gnps and amuses the audi- January 18-March 2. Mac Faculty Show. Works by regional artists trumpeter Tim ()]sen and his tno ence as her gutsy voice fills the house and her sp<lken material will who are also instructors in the Albany Institute\s Museum Art Class in concert on Fridav . .lanuarv 24 make you roar with laughter. and Art Partners programs. MAC Gallery. at 8:00PM in the Yulman Theater Patti LuPone lights Llp the stage as .her Gile womart show proves to January 25-April13: leon Marcotte: 19th Century Cabinet Maker This concert is free and open to be truly unforgettable. LuPonc brings down the h,ouse with songs and Interior Decorator. Features an important suitc·ofc 1865 Louis the public from the roles that made her famous: \Don't Cry For Me, Argentina:· XVI furniture <icsigned and manufactured by the French-born cabi- The group will also gi' c a rre- \1 Dreamed a Dream:' and \I Get a Kick Out ofYo~t\ 'The production net-maker Leon Marc:otte ( 1824-!8'87), along with Eastman Johnson concert talk on Friday. January 24 also includes songs from Szmset Boulevard and Oliver' The flrst act painting depicting apleceofthe furniture. at 1 40 PM in the Arts Bu1ldmg. · 1· dS 1 Room215.andpresenta.Ja:t.zim- isaremarkablemix ofsongsbyColePorter.lrvmgBer m,an , tep1en Sondheim. Thesecondactisacatalog()fLuPone's owntheaterhits. ATTHEALBANYCENYERGALLERIES provisation \Vorkshop on Satur- The between\song patter and amusing anecdotes ofLuPone' s history January 17-Fehntaty 28: The Mohawk Hudson Regional Invitational~ ua\ · J anuaf\ ~ S from I 0 00 AM to inthetheaterbringssomecomedytothcshowaswell. Eachmenti'i}.n featuringworkbyJudithBr:ust.StevePerkins.andTbomasSurrantonio, 1 11 3D AM in the Arts Butldmg. of a Lui> one role leads into the appropriate t'ong in the Leslle Urbach Gallery. Room 3 13 . l'hese events arc also Tickets forPattiLuPoneon Broadway (Ire $4250-$29.5(). Tickets are January 17-Februaty 28: Paintings byGerri Pugliese 1\-Ioore. in the free and open to the public availableatProctor'sBoxOfficebycatling(518)346~6204andatall UpstairsGallery. Tim Olsen JOI!1ed the llnton TicketMasterlocations. The Albany CenterGaUeri.es arelocatedat the comerofChapel and faculty as Visiting Assistant Pro- ONGOING Moi1roe Str-eets in downtown Albany. Fonnoreinfonnationcall (518) fessor ofPerfonning Arts in Sep- The Albany Institute of History & Art is celeorating the bicenten- 462.4775. tem ber I 994 and is active in both ~----~---~-~----~-~-~~~--------------~~--...:.....-~~~----'--~~~---1 jazz and classical music. At ***SPRING BREAK 1997*** America's #1 Spring Break Company! Sell 15 trips and travel free! Cancun, Bahamas, Guarantee! Call Mazatlan, Janaica or Florida! 110% Lowest Price Now! TAKE-A-BREAK (800) 95-BREAK! Union, Professor Olsen teaches courses in American music (with an emphasis on jazz) and music theory~ he also directs the Union College Jazz Ensemble In addi- tion to Tim Olsen on piano and trumpet, the ensemble features Tim Moran on saxophone and Jeff Fuller on bass. For further information, please ~-----------------------------------------' call388-6201. ! I ! I il ;l l1 I' ,l !, ·,•.I '·1 ~ i\ I' ,! ~ ~~ ~; ,, 1,: i ij l I - c ar si si S1 St 2 tll a w tr el Cl b· st p. \\ t]- u L tc ri C' u ti b R a n b b p d 1 .... 1 I 2 1 ~ 4 .. ~ J - ~ L

Arts & [ntcnainmcnt illlt' (f[llltroruirnsi-~ •_ January 23, 1997 • Page 11 The Pe:rfo;rm:i:ng Arts Department Presents: ·25 \'ears of Stage -Design MiDenium Chamber Music Society to Perform at Union Tonight by GabrielaDory StaffWriter For over 25 years, Professor Charles Stec~ler has proven that anything and everything is pos- sible in the theater. The set de- signer for the Yulman Theater, Steckler opened an exhibit of his set designs on Tuesday, January 21 that spans his prolific career in theater. Steckler, a multitnedia artist, has - a studio filled with his works, which includes paintings, draw- ings, books, and miniature mod- els of his sets. The exhibit is a collection of photographs taken by Steckler and other artists ofhis . stage designs. Following the procession ofhis prodqction photographs is like walking through the history of theater at Union. Visitorswl1oare unfamiliar with the history 9f Union's theater will be surprised to discover that the Nott Memo- rial once served as the theater. After it was no fonger suitable as a library, theNott Memorial was converted into a theater. To be used as a theater, much imagina- tion was required on the part of both director and set desig~er. Rather than a hindrance, theN ott allowed Steckler to perfect his notion of environmental theater, because there was no separation between the audience and the playing space. One of Steckler's favorite set designs in the Nott il) for a pro- duction of Tom Paine by Paul Foster. The Nott was ttansfonned into an 18th century beat-bating pit, constructed of thousands of feet oftilnber; telephone poles, suspension bridges, and cargo - on the set design for a produc- tion of Tales of the lost Formicans by Consta11ce Congdon and:directedby Profcs- sorBarry Smith. Steckler describes his upcotlT space. This exhibit is an extension of a smaller exhibit of stage designs that Steckler put together for the Mountebanks and Theater Alumni Reunion weekend held Courtesy of Public Relations Millenium, a chamber music society specializing in new and unfamiliar works, will perfonn to- night at 8:00 PM in Union College's Memorial Chapel. The concert is part of this year's Schenectady Museum-Union Col- lege chamber music series. The program is to feature Brahms' Clarinet Trio, Messaien's Quartet for the End of Time, and Paul Schoenfield 's Klezmer Trio ( 1994). Millenium is the brainchild of artistic director and violinist/vio- list Scott St. John, who conceived the group in I 994 to appeal to \both the traditional chamber music audience and to a younger grollp of listeners that normally does not attend concerts.\ Millenium has performed music from composer ranging from Antonin Dvorak to Elvis Costello. Stage set for tile \Twe/ft/1 Nigltt\ by William Sllakespeare, desigued .bpC/rarlesSteckler for a productio11 ill /977. A Toronto-based ensemble, M illenium is made up of more than two dozen outstanding young soloists. From this pool of play- ers, groups of three to eight art- ists are selected to present con- certs in Toronto and on tour. Per- forming with St. John al Union Col1cge will be pianist Pei-Tao Wang, clarinetist Todd Palmer, and cellist Sophie Shao. netting, and included chickens, a ing project as a \madcap S()cial pig, J tortoises, and a caged bear. satire about middle America fr()l11 Resourceful and imaginative, theperspeetiveofaliens.\ Hewill Steckler continues to dazzle Union be recon figuring the aud ien<:e- audiences with his craftsmanship stage relationship by moving the in the recently com.pleted Yulman adjustable seating in the thet~ter Theater. He is currently working to achieve the effect of ottter last spring. At that time there were 2 exhibits, one from the theater ar- chives and. the other of stage de- signs. As a result of its success, ... . the department dec1ded to expand the stage design exhibit tor the restofthe Union community. Tickets, at $12 ($6 for students), are available in advance at the Schenectady Museum or at the door. CDC Updates ••• ON-cAMPUS RECRUITING- A select number of companies have EX1ENDED their resume deadline for on.canipus recruiting. To view the list and deadlines come to the Career Center as soon as possible. NYC RECRUIIIN& DIY: Friday, January 24, interviews in New York City for pre-selected students. Effective Intervie~ing Workshop: Learn to identify your strong points as well as prepare for and present yourself effectively in a personal inter- view. This is a prerequisite for a mock interview. January 28, 4pm or 7pm, in the CDC. Sign up in advance. T-op Five Album salts' :--~-!·' ·![_~ _,,'''\.f!·~. 1!·---·~ ~~--:' ~ __ :,.-,_·; .. _~J,. -' •• ;>;- Jolin Hancock C••ers Semlncr. A representative from John Hancock Life Insurance Cc. will conduct a Career Seminar at CDC. Discussion will include opportunities in the Financial Services Industry for those who like people, !lave entrepreneurial spirit, and are motivated to make money. Resumes will be accepted. January 28. 7pms Ar-ti-st 1.~; , , · .,,\ _ , , . , , l.Np Qoubt 2. Soun11track 3. Celirie Dion 4. Leann.Rimes 5. toni·Brnxton ' . ~' riJ.,le .\.1. _,., . : _;:· L,qh.el ,,_ ... ,. · .. \'\ ·; .... , ·· Tra~ic Kit}ggo~ _ Trau~o/lf).terscope ~omeo and Juliet · · · Capitol · Fatfing·IJ'tt& You · · 550 M~rsio1£pic Blue · .Curb . -,- '' .'.' ,. Sec.rets. LaFace/ Arista . . .. · - \' .... ~ Please RSVP 427-7596 X 117 I FEB I n f D. I essl 0 n: The International Foundation of Employee \ ' Benefits will be on campus recruiting sophomores of any major for paid summer internsllip opportunities. All students interested in a great career building opportumty should attend. January 29. 4pm at the CDC. Drop ID Hours: MoDday ... Friday 3-5pm ·Thb'cl Floor, Old.Ohapel s88-8176 - ....... -. .. -: ......... c:...,.,...Ma'. ~-_._- ',.._ ....

The Performing Arts Department Presents: 2 5 \'ears of Stage Desig,n Millenium Chamber Music Society to Perform at Union Tonight by Gabriela Dory Staff Writer For over 25 years, Professor Charles Steckler has proven that anything and everything is pos- sible in the theater. The set de- signer for the Yulman Theater, Steckler opened an exhibit of his set designs on Tuesday, January 21 that spans his pro! ific career in theater. Steckler, a multimedia artist, has a studio filled with his works, which includes paintings, draw- ings, books, and miniature mod- els of his sets. The exhibit is a collection of photographs taken by Steckler and other artists of his stage designs. Following the procession ofhis production photographs is like walking through the history of theater at Union. Visitors who are unfamiliar with the history of Union's theater will be surprised to discover that the Nott Memo- rial once served as the theater. duction of Tom Paine by Paul Foster. The Nott was transfonned into an 18th century bear-bating pit, constructed of thousands of feet of timber, telephone poles, suspension bridges, and cargo on the set design for a produc- tion of Tales of the Lost Formicans by Constance Congdon and directed by Profes- sor Barry Smith. Steckler describes his upcom space. This exhibit is an extension of a smal:ler exhibit of stage designs that Steckler put together for the Mountebanks and Theater Alumni Reunion weekend held Courtesy of Public Relations Millenium, a chamber music society specializing m nevv and unfamiliar works, will perf\lmn to- aight at 8:00PM in Union College's Memorial Chapel The concert is part of this year's Schenectady Museum-l lnion Col- lege chamber music series The program is to feuture Brahms' Clarinf!£ Trio, Messaien 's Quartet Jar the r:nd ofTime. and Paul Schnenfidd's Kle::mer Trio ( 19lJ4) Millenium is the hr,uncluiJ ot artistic director and v!oluJI~t. ·, I0- 1 ist Scott St John.\\ hn cuiKCI \ eJ the group in 1994 tu arpca I tu ·'both the traditional ..:ham her music audience and to a\ oung.er group of I istcners that lhlfln all~ does not attend concerts \ Millenium has performed music from composer ranging from 1\ntonin Dvorak to Eh is Costello After it was no fonger suitable as a library, the Nott Memorial was converted into a theater. To be used as a theater, much imagina- tion was required on the part of both director and set designer. Rather than a hindrance, the Nott allowed Steckler to perfect his notion of environmental theater, because there was no separation between the audience and the playing space. Stage set for the \Twelfth Nigltt\ by William Shakespeare, desig11ed by Clrarles Steckler for a production ill 1977. netting, and included chickens, a ing project as a \'madcap social last spring. At thattime there were pig, 3 tortoises, and a caged bear. satire about middle America fro1n 2 exhibits, one from the theater ar- A Toronto-based ensemble, Millenium is made up of more than two dozen outstandmg voung soloists From th1s pool of pia;- crs. groups or three to eight art- ists are selected to present con- certs in Toronto and on tour. Per- forming with St. .John at U11ion Colkge will be pianist Pei-Tao Wang, clarinetist Todd Palmer. and cellist Sophie Shao One of Steckler's favorite set designs in the Nott is for a pro- Resourceful and imaginative, theperspectiveofaliens.\ He will chives and the other of stage de- Stecklercontinuesto dazzle Union be reconfiguring the audience- signs As a res~1lt of its success, audiences with his craftsmanship stage relationship by moving the the department decided to expand in the recently completed Yulman adjustable seating in the theater the stage design exhibit for the Theater. He is currently working to achieve the effect of outer rest of the Union community. Tickets, at $12 ($6 for students), arc available in advance at the Schenectady Museum or at the door Chart-Topp:ers A Quick Look at What's Entertaining·America Top Five Films Title L TheR:elic 2. Evita 3.Michael 4.Scream 5. Jerry Maguire Gross {in millfo:ns) $9.1 $8.4 $8.3 $7.4 $7.0 Gross to date $11.2 $63.7 $50.0 $93.3 Top Five Television Programs Title · · · · · · · · · Viewers {in millions) Last week 2 1. Se.infeld 34.5 2. Friends 29:8 3 .. SuddenlySusan 28.6 4. The Single Guy 24.6 5. Touched By An Angel 24.3 Top Five Alb~mSales Artist l.NoDoubt 2. Seundtrack 3. Celine Dion 4. LeannRimes 5. Toni Braxton TQp Five Video Rentals Title l. The Rock 2. A Time to Kill 3. Tin Cup 4. The Nutty Professor 5. Chain Reaction Title Tragic Kingdom Romeo and Juliet FaHing Into You Blue Secrets Distributor Hollywood Warner Warner MCA/Universal Fox 4 & 5 Label Ttauma/lnterseope Capitol 550 Music/Epic Curb LaFace/ Arista Last week 2 6 4 8 -All information courtesy Entertainment Weekly UNION COlLEGE Omtr Develqmltnt Ctnter CDC Updates ON-CAMPUS RECRUITING- ••• A select number of companies have EXTENDED their resume deadline for on-can:ipus recruiting. To view the list and deadlines come to the Career Center as soon as possible. NYC RE CR U ITI NG DRY: Friday, January 24, interviews in New York City for pre-selected students. Effecti~t lnurviewing Workshop: Learn to identify your strong points as well as prepare for and present yourself effectively in a personal inter- view. This is a prerequisite for a mock interview. . January 28, 4pm or 7pm, in the CDC. Sign up in advance. Jolm tlancock Cartws Seminar. A representative from John Hancock Life Insurance Co. will conduct a Career Seminar at CDC. Discussion will include opportunities in the Financial Services Industry for those who like people, have entrepreneurial spirit, and are motivated to make money. Resumes will be accepted. ,lanuary 28. 7pm. Please RSVP427-7.596 X 117 IF E B I n f 0 I sa s I Ill n: The International Foundation of Employee Benefits will be on campus recruiUng sophomores of any major for paid swmner internship opportunities. All students interested in a great career building opportunity should attend. ~ 29. 4pm at ~ CDC. Drop Ia Hours: Monday - Friday S-5pm Third noor, Old Chapel 388-6176 ~--- ...

I ' . - . ' ~ ' ' ' Global News . . . . illl1e <!Ioucndricitsi$ • January 23, 1997 • Page 12 - . . Global News La.st Pre·side·nt of the Century Inaugurated Erika Mancini Staff Writer the most tightly guarded ever in United States history. The Clinton's did remove them- On Monday, Janua:-y 2()th, selves from their limousine and Will.iam Jefferson Clinton todk walked some of the parade to the oath of office for the second .the viewing stand. No former time installing him as the last president(Ford, Carter, Reagan president of the United States or Bush) attended at the inau- of the 20th century. The inau- guration. guration was held on the west Four More Years front of the White House on the What wil:l the next four years cold, but comfortable January hold for the country? Atop day. During the swearing in, Clinton's and the Democrats' Hilary Rod ham Clinton held the I ist of priorities I ie Medicare family Bible, and daughter reform, tax cuts, campaign f)- Chelsea stood next to her father nance reform, balancing the in proud admiration as Chief budget and health care. Ac- .Justice William Rehnquist cording to Senate Minority swore him in. Leader Tom Daschle, Clinton's The president then delivered number-one priorities are ex- his speech aiming to be contem- panding heathcare to children, plative and perhaps poetic. He as well as the bipartisan goal spoke of America as the \Land of coming up with a means of of New Promise\ hoping per- balancing the budget by 2002. haps that the phrase might President Clinton also seeks to catch on with the press. He also Lmdo some of the welfare re- communicated that government form passed last year which is not the problem in America helped fulfill the GOP's Con- today, and no~_is it the solution. tract with America. . As he advocated the down-.siz- lmprovingrelations with the .ing of the government, he press will also be a task for the sounqed republi~~n-: Othercrit- · . President. Gve.rshadowing ics sa.id that. perhaps 'iVfi II er what Clinton hopes· to accmn- Williams' poem ask~d ntore. P'lish wtll most surely be cov- q uestions than the preside11t' s erage on the many -sc.andals that speech. Overall, the general seem unshakeable. Rumors consensus regarding the aboundthattheFirstLadyfaces P.resident's speech was that it a po~sible indictment for her was not a stirring speech and involvement in White Water. seemed more like the usual The possibility of the Paula laundry list. .lone's' civil suit and the ever- The entire inaugural celebra- widening campaign finance tions lasted three days, and cost scandal could potentially drag over $42 million dollars -. down the President's second $12.7 million of which cam.e out of tax payers' pockets. Fourteen inaugural galas were thrown, as well as pre-inaugu- ral parties such as the Conde Nast/MTV bash which was at- tended by Mrs. Clint()n, Chelsea, Sheryl Crow, Stevie Wonder and Miss America. among many other celebrities The American Film Institute a] so held a party for celebrities, politicians, and television and music industry YIP's at Planet Hollywood. Other bashes in- cluded the Democratic National Committee's for major cam- paign contributors who sucked up the chance to rub rich el- bows and shmooze. Traditi()nal proceedings also included the parade, which was, this year, term. According to those close to Clinton, the President has learned from his past four years in office. He has supposedly become more comfortable with his role, more mature and even more presidential. An article in USA TODAY by Bill Nichols stated that he has learned \sometimes the hard way. that even as the 21st cen- tury approaches, America still \vants a president to be prcsi· dential.\ Clinton's approval rating in November after his re- election was at 57%, according to a nationwide poll conducted by the nonpartisan Pew Re- search Center with \State of the Union,\ a PBS documentary series, and USA TODAY. DesertRose Consignment Shop . 1726 flnion Street, Nisk~:~yuna Quaiity Clothing at a Fraction of the Original Price. 20% Off with Student ID (Not to be used with any other discount) -------- Like Father Like Son by AngueiZaprya.nov Contribiting Writter t: will never forgive my fa~ :ther. He is the most wonder- person in the world- good- . , honest, caring~ yet, he ·has one great flaw: his absent- mindedness. Modern genetics has proved that one inherits his or her parents' characteristics; th-erefore, I by the end of ·lnY trip. I had forgottenmybags at the bussta- tion. Similar scenes repea~ them- selves at school, with friends, and at home. Sometimes I am real! y embarrassed and wish to hide my head in the sand as the ostrich does. My father tries to console me, say in.g that every professor or highly intelligent .person .is absent~minded. I am not sure, however, whether ev· like·\ right cause,\ \honesty and 1 'people's good.\ The politicians employ these eli-· ches and talk about improve-. ment .ofttre HviJlg standard and economic growth, but forget to take any actions and fulfill their promises. Everyone seems confident in his ability to sacrifice hirn or herself for the sake of the people. Howev:er,everyone respects only his or her own opinion and \faultless\ ould blame tny father fonny greatest short- coming: absent- rninde<;iness. Sometimes my father loses h.is keys, mis- They employ these cliches and talk about improvementofthe living standard and economic growth, but forget to take any actions and fulfi I!_ their prom·ises. personality and tries to dis- · credit his or her opponent. Petty cmn~eti­ tion for power, · ineptitude, and · places his watch, or misses his bt1s-stop while going to work. In his lifetime he has changed do:zensofwatches and keys; the city watchsellersandkey mak- ers are his best friends. The awful thing is that I am a chip offthe old block. Once, for ex- ample, I was waiting at a bus .station. When the bus arrived, I, whistling and carefree, got inta it and took my seat. Half- way to my destination~ while enjoying the beautifu] land- lS£i;tpe:-gr,een valleys and moun- t~ins bathing. in sun light-1 thought of the pleasure of'read- . ing the newspaper's sports page. And suddenly, the fact that my newspaper was in my bag flashed through my mind. The next mornerit I realized that I would be enjoying the ... landscape twice more pom.pous be- ery absent-minded individual havior abound. is highly intelligent. I wish all Balkan politi- lt rnay be embarrassing, but cians had fathers like min e. · it is always great fun for ev- Thus they would experience a eryone, inclt!d·ing me, to expe- little embarrassment, flush· rience such occasions because with confusion ahd have some humor prevails in them. I am · fun. That fun would help them even inclined to think that my realize that they are not so flaw is not so useless. When I faultless and would clear the at- read or watch the news about Balkan politics, for example, my father's witty saying about · the 1 iii~- .between intelli-gence arid absent-mindedness comes to my mind, and I immediately conclude that th~ Balkan ·poli- ticians 11re not absent-minded. Creativity is. something strange tor them .. They seer,n to be \.ln .. familiar with the process of thinking becau$e they cannot say anythlng ~lse but trite ~lan,­ ders, exaggeratiO\ns and sfeepy,. pompo.us prose full of cliches mosphere ofpretentious smiles and boring talks. Probably the Balkans would be a better place to live in~ i-f some o~ its politi- cians were absent-minded or at least had an inclination oflos- ing their bags: -• - '. \\t 't: '~\ ~· Note: I am even inclined to think tilat the above analysis pertains not o'nly to the Balkans. lt may very well refer to any· country.,Qn moth.er Earth .......... . -Assttre· YOUR·Fttture ill BttsiJzess . witlz UNION~s 5-Yettr Master of Business Ad111inistrat;on MBA Accounting MBA H-ealth Systems Administration MBA International Management MBA Management One Ad~itional Y eat of Study For Information Call: 388-6239

Page 13 • January 23, 1997 • Wl e Qion.cnrbictlsis . . . . · . · ·. . · · . ·. . Spm;\ts Crunch Time for Skating Dutchmen . , . _ • . . . . r~bound, and RPI went up 4-2, as tough [not playing much] after The Dutchmen, who are now Contuiuedfrom Page 16 Alain St. Hillaire got the goal. playing quite a bit last season as in 8th place in t)1e ECAC with a Dutchmen pl·aying their own Down <J:-2 with 1:10 to .go in the afreshman,'\'saidShtrom who is reoord gf 5-6-1, batHe the third style of hockey. Physical play by periQd, Unio1~ made its last stand • 2-2 with .a 3,26 Goals Against place Bngi11eersagainnext week- the defense kept,RPJ':s forwards wjth . .Shtrom oti· the bench: fur: a A vera.ge. ·\But tl~ar s the way end at Achilles Rink in what will fromdrivingtotheriet A.ftertwo -~ixthskafer. ·· hockey goes. Trevor'sbeenhav• bethe third meeting ofthe sea- lengthy stoppages.ofplay due to · Unjon couldn't break tl1rcugh, ing an excell'e11.tphenomenal sea- son between the~_e rivals. the goal magnet corning out of· the ice at the RPI end, Unio11 took the lead, as Fordcani€d th®puck · beh·ind Prekaski and then sent it o1,1t to John Sicinski who was right i11 the sl.ot. S1cinski beat Prekaski with a snap-shot low to the glove side to give the Dutch- n'len a 2-1 lead. The period ended with Shtrom making a couple of solid stops on the RPJ forwards .. With the Engineers on a power play to start the period, RPI tied the score as an Aldop.s wrist shot from the left point beat Shtrom. The Engineers extended their lead at 12:00, as Pete Gardiner carried the puck down the left side of the ice. The Dutchmen defense stepped up and Shtrom made a save on the weak shot. However, the rebound squirted free and Battaglia~ who hadbeen camped in front, put it past the sprawled Shtromto give RPI a 3~ 2 lead. Less than two minutes later, the Union defense again faltered, as Aldous came down the center of the ice and took a quick S'hot on Shtrom. Shtrom made the initial save, but neither he nor his defense could clear the Ullioll's Andrnv Will (2) a11d Greg Bllcltallatz ( UJ) ..Sillldwiclt atl RPJ player ill front tlte uet. (Laurel .Ruma/TC) and Battaglia registered a hat trick, as he sent the .puck down into the vac~mt Un~on net, icing the5·2win. Shtrom, in his first ECAC ap- pearance played a solid game, stopping 34 sl1ots. \It's been · son. I've jus.1 got to try and stay in, work hard and wait for my turn.\ Captain Andrew Will thought Shtrom played wei I. '\I think he pla:yed a really solid game out there, and made some big saves,\ said Will. BETWEEN THE PIPES The line of Russ Monteith, John Sicinski, and Chris Ford continues to be on fire, register- ing 4 points on the weekend. Mark Will ret,urned to the line- . up forthe first time in nine games. Tem.perature & Shooting Drop For D·utchmen Saturday, the Dutchmen visit Women's. Hockey ·Bounces Back by Jody Mosseau Staff Writer The Skating Dutchwomen re- corded a 5-l win over Clarkson on Saturday to escape this tenn 's two-game losing streak Union was aHowed JO shots on goals. r,pposed to Clarkson's seven shots Sarah Moss led the scor- ing with two. and Tracy Marquis tallied once during the first pe- riod. Laura Morgenthauand Erin Smyth followed, each with one goal in the third Clarkson scored their lone goal in the last period Lamen Locke made two saves between the pipes, allowing none, and .lody Mousseau t stopeped four shots allowing one goal. The success of the team this season can be attributed to tts out- standing players and diligent coaches. Their last game against Williams' varsity program dis- played great playing on the part of all members, despite their be- ing shut out. Clarkson's game concentrated on good passes and crashing the net, which allowed Union to completely dominate the game. \It seemed like every- thing we had been working on in practice last week came together by Frank Rossi Staff Writer scoring well, as their top scorer stopping B()wdoin 's Chris had ten points,yettheteam scored Whipple. Wl'lipple'mounted a 70.: 'lt \.vas. a gauie the Dutchlhen thirty.lpoin-l effnrt'l agMnst 'fl1e .a decent Skidl'hore team. The . · in the game,\ commented Hana Ya,tnashita~ the wcitn:en''s ice Maine is nonnaliy a nice place were notsupposed to win, though, Dutchmen, a11d he added six re- to visit it1 the winter; but the· as Colby 1s currently ranked first bounds. Wil Smith padded Union men's basketball teatnmay . in New England. Whipple's effort with fifteen ·not share those views after being The progndsis was 'nof much points as he l1it eight of his ten beaten twice in Maine. The betteronSaturdaynightasUnion free throws intheganie. ' DutchmenlosttoColbyCollege · hadtovisitanotherhighly-ranked U~ion's R<Jb Groelz was on Friday night, 70-46, and on' New England team. The teams Union's nigh scorer and Saturday, they 1-u~~.to Bq:waoin. erune·int~~~hegame wit~rev~rse rebounder with 16 points and College, 88-63 .. · reeO:rd~, Sow~oin at 8-2 -and eigbt boards. ·Groelz currently The :first half of the Colby game · Union,at 2-8. · . le&ds the team with 12.7 points was a nightmare for the Dutch- ·union came out much crisper petgame.Dcvtdoin's 55.4:-per- men as they scored only eleven in the first half, as they shot 40 cent shooting was too much for points in the first half. Their 26- percent from th.e floor and trailed the Dutclunenas they beat Union 11 deficit increased in the second Bowdoin by ()nly six points at by 25. half as both teams insertedtheir half-time. In the second half, This weekend is local-rivalry benches late in the game. though, Union was not able to weekend fi>rth.e Dutchmen. Fri- The top scorer for Union was keep up their good shooting per- day night, t11ey visit RPl, a team Zachary King with ten points with centage. which went to the Division III both Shane Cahill and Dave According to Union Head NCAA Tollrnament last year. Copeland adding eight points. Coach Bob Montana, «Tn the RPl lost a lot of senior power, The rest ofthe team split twenty middle of the second half, we however, andthe Dutchmen (2- points as the Dutchmen shot a couldn't stop Bowdoin.'' 9, 0-2 UCAA) need to beat the paltry 26 percent from the floor. Bowdoin scored 51 points inthe Engineers to stay alive in the Colby College spread out their second half, and they had trouble UCAA title htu11t. Thoroughbreds. beat the Dutch- lnen badly in Saratoga last .sea- . ·son., and Union is looking for re~ venge. RP.I and Skidmore are not at the same quality that the Maine teams were. With two UC A A match ups this weekend, Coach Montana is showing a lot of confidence with his team. \I don't expect any drastic changes [this weekend]. We will continue to work hard to improve our execution both of- fensively and defensively, and our playing rotation will stay somewhat similar to what it al- ready is.\ Senior Co-captain Doyin Richards feels that the team can sweep this weekends contests. Richards said, 1 'Skidmore and RPI are games we can win. The team is tired up and we are ready to take care ofthe task at hand. It is time to end this losing slide.\ UCAA Basketball and ECA C Hockey Updates and Standings UCAA Women's Basketball Standi11gs 1996-'97 ECAC Hockey Standings Overall UCAA . League Only Team Won Lost WonLost School GP W-L-T PTS GF GA William Smith II 0 3 0 Prineton 13 &-4-1 17 46 36 St. Lawrence 6 4 2 0 Cornell 12 7-3-2 16 40 34 Clarkson 5 4 I I RPI II 7-3· 1 15 40 37 Skidmore 5 5 l 2 Clarkson 11 7-40 14 46 31 1-l.amilton 4 8 1 2 Vermont 11 7-4-0 14 32 28 Rensselaer 3 7 1 2 Harvard 14 6-6-2 14 38 38 Union 2 8 0 2 Colgate 12 6-5-1 13 39 35 Union 12 S-6-1 11 32 35 I UCAA Men's Basketball Yale 13 4-8-1 9 38 50 Overall UCAA Dartmouth 11 4-7-0 8 40 47 Team Won Lost Won Lost St. Lawreil ce 11 3-6-2 8 38 44 Hamilton 7 2 3 0 Brown 13 2-10-1 5 46 60 St. Lawrence 9 2 2 0 Closing in on l 00! Hobart 3 7 2 Chris Ford- Senior, Foward,- Needs only three points to be the Clarkson 5 6 1 first Skating Dutchmen to reach a hundred points in Division I Union 2 9 0 2 Hockey. Rensselaer 2 9 0 2 . . . I , hockey president.· \Our passing was better than I've ever seen it, a11dthere was no question that we were in control of the game from start to .finish.\ Should the Skat- ing butch women continue to dis- . play the level of play indicated in their last two games, they will undoubtedly continue to domi- nate their opponents. The Skating Dutchwomen are hoping that their success and hard work will lead to the eventual es- tablishment of a women's varsity ice hockey program at Union Until tl1ey acquire such an oppor- tunity, they will only continue to play and work as though they were a varsity team. At the time .of press, the women's ice hockey team stands 3-3, with two of its losses to RPI and Williams, both varsity teams. The Skating Dutchwomen play at Holy Cross this Saturday. INTERNATIONAL joB SKIIJS New professional M.A. in Inter· natlorud Affilirs or Intctamcrlc:m SIUdles prepares you rapidly for exciting careers: 0 environmental studies ::J public health 0 government ::J international organizations 0 international media, business Learn valuable analytic skills from economics and the social sc1ences. Complete this intensive multi· diSdplin:uy degree in 12 to 15 months, while living in a fascl· nating intemalic>nal city Free derails. GRADUATE ScHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL S1UDIES Coml Gables, FL 33124·3010 305-284-4173; Fax: 305-2844406 NewUill.: http://www miam.i.edu/gsiS

Pa,ge l 4 • Jan u~1•·y 23, 1997 • IDip• <IToltrorhil'll.St5 .\ · · · · S11orts Swim Team Torpedoes Competition La.dy · Cagers Continue with Problems Rebound with victories over Hart.wick and Trinity, Team confidence on the Rise by Kelly Libraradi StaffWriter Going into the. meet on Satur- day, Union's swimrning and div- ing team was looki11g to bounce back from last week's poor per- formance. The team anticipated the grueling competition against both the Hartwick and Trinity teams in the tri-rneet. The men's team got off to a good start and stayed ahead through out the meet The women's team had a more difficult time remaining in front oftheir competitors. How- ever, when it was time fer the fi- nal score to be announced, both teams finished on top for Union. The men's team won 151-85 against Hartwick and 172-60 against Trinity. The women did equally well, beating rival Hartwick 130-I12andalsowin- ning against Trinity 150-90. Everyone on the team gave it their all and produced many best times in the po<OI and high- est scores on the boards. On the women's team, se11ior freestyler Jackie Crane was victorious in both the 200 and 50() freestyle, and freshman sprinter Kelen Barr captured the 50 and I 00 freestyle. Meg McCarthy won botll the 1 00 breaststroke and 100 butter.fly. Diver Heather Weise11tluh won on both I meter a.:nd 3 meter boards. Other great performances that helped to clinch victory for tl:te women's team include junior Sa- rah Spaulding's swi1n in the 100 backstroke and freshman Erin Wittes' I 00 breaststroke race. On the men's side, N.atio11al champion Kevin Makarowski won the 50 and 100 freestyle as well as the 200 individual med- ley, and Mike Humphreys was victorious in the I 00 backstmke. Brian Field won all of his events--the I meter and the 3 meter boards. Sophomore Dave Searles captured first place in the 200 free and I 00 butterfly. Jun- ior Mark Anderson and senior Than Stuntz also had i>erf{)r- mances that helped steer Union to victory. Many team members feel that this meet helped to raise team moral. Candice Trlhnall ,put it best, saying, \It was evide11t that the team pulled together during the meet to come off victorious. Hopefully, this win will l1elp to keep things going in the f.lOS itive direction.\ The team wo rke<l to- gether toward their success. Ev- eryone was kept motivated through the constant cheeri11g and positive attitude of all those around. The team definitely swa1n as a llhit and stuck together tllrough- out the meet to pul.l off a well de- served victory. The win was even niore sweet for the wot71en be- cause of their loss to Hartwick last season. As fo·r the rest of the season~ the team hopes to build on this accomplishment and have no fur- ther losses. The Duchmen have theirmindsseton swimming well at their state and national meets at the end of the season, and this win proves their potential to suc- ceed, With the progression of the season, the freshmen have begun to find their place on the team with the guidance of the upper- classmen. This newly developed team unity will be the driving force behind Union's victories. by ;Josh Ad~ms Staff·Wi'iter Over the weekefid, the Union D1.1tchwomen's basketball team traveled to New Hampshire and Maine to battle Bate·s and Bowdoin Colleges. The ladies dropped both ga111es, los·ing 64- 52 to· Bates an<i 74-42 to ' · Bowdoin. The Bates game was extremely close, with Union only · trailing by five points most of the :game. At the halt~ Sates took a 10 point lead, 30-20, by hitting a couple jump shots with less then a minute to go in the half. The Dutchwomen, however, came out shooting just like they did in last weeks Union Invitational- Cham- . pionship. Senior Amy Ritz scored 14 points and snared 11 rebounds. · Sophomore Mary Shultz had ten points, while Tonya Capparello pumped in seven. Capparello did not play last tenn because of an internship, and her presence on the court this term has been no- . tia~d. Coach Mary Ellen Burt said that \turnovers played an impor- tant part of the game.\ The posi- tive side of this loss however, is that Union out rebounded Bates 41 ~ 26, and went to the charity stripe 3I times. lfa team keeps up this kind ofhard work, then it is bound to pay off for them in -----------------------------~-------~--~----------- 1 the end. Track Loses to Hamilton Cont ..• the middle distance events. The men won five out of the first seven events and tool< one second and two thirds in that span. yet in the remaining nine events. the team failed to win <l11ce. and took three seconds and five thirds. Despite the I<Jss~ the men's team had several noteworthy pcr- fonnances. In particular, pole- vaulters David Nortluup and Dan Couture went one-two, sweeping the event. Jason Jennings had an outstanding day i~1 the field events, taking first in both the high jump and in the long jump. In the shot put, Jenne! Royal started his season strong, taking second Turning to the track, the men had several excellent sl1owings forth is first meet. However, lack of team depth allo\Ned Hamilton to take first and second in four events from which the Union squl:ld was unable to recover Co- Cartains senior Dm·c Riggi and junior Jay Goldberg took first and second in both oftheir respective events. Riggi took first in the 45m and second in the 200m, while Goldberg took the 1500m and second in the 3000JU. Goldberg also anchored the second place, non-scoring 3200m relay. Also of notice was freshman Kenny Scott's gutsy race i 11 the 500m, in which he took a close third. Noticeably absent from the meet was sophotnore Hugh Meyer, who is sidelined with ill- ness, and junior Mike Martin, Jay Goldberg aud Alex 111ilitello during tire 3000m (BrauJISfieJIITC) who sustained injury during wann-ups. Coach Aldo Nardiello commented afterwards that\ ... the team got its feet wet [in th.is first meet] and that\ the team looks forward anxiously to the Capital District meet at RPI in two weeks.\ The following are the results frotl} the past weekend~ events vs. Hamilton. RESULTS OF UNION MEN SCORERS Pole Vault I. Northmp 11 ': 2. Couture 10' HighJump 1. Jennings l.73m Long Jump l.Jennings(iA9m: 2. Marsha116.22111 45m I. Riggi 5.5 1500m 1. J. Goldberg 4:25.6: 3. Childs 4:38 Shot Put · 2. Royal 1·2.81n 500m 3. Scott l: 11.3 400m 3. Sean 54.8 Triple Jump 3. Prisco 1 I .3m 3000m 2. J. Goldberg 10:29:3 Militello 12:1.8 200m 2 Riggi 23.8: B. Goldberg 24 2 4x400m 2 Mantilla, Childs, B. Goldberg, 4:12.5 4x800m 2 lger, Childs, Scott, J. Goldberg 9: 10.7 RESULTS OF UNION WOMEN SCORERS High jump 1.47m I. Cieslowski 20/b. WT 1. Woodward8.5m 50m H 2. Beck 9.0 Longjump 2. Bugdei14.37m 1500m I . MacDowell 500m 3 Roberts I :52 4 .J5m IOOOm 2 Spiegal 6 5 I Goveia 3.20.9 Shot Put 2. Seeking 7.6m~ Triple Jump 1. Bugden 9.0m 3000m 2. Mcintosh I1 :55 200m .fx80()m 2. Gower 29 6 I II II 8 Union's next opponent was Bowdoin College. The Dutchwomen were able to battle Bowdoin for the first half, b~It in the second, Bowdoin's tough de- fense came through. \Their pres- sure defense and our tumovers let to some not so go<Jd things.\ As Coach Burt put it. \Mary Shultz had a very good game.\ Coach Burt said. This in- <ieed was the fact. Shultz contin- ued her stellar play from last week's tourney, by contributing 33 pointers and five assists. Hitz got the double, pouring in II and grabbing II rebounds. In the upcoming week, the Dutchwomen travel to Russel Sage College on Th.ursday. This weekend they .square off against RPI and Skidmore. Coach Burt co1mnented on the recent play of her team. \I think that we're playing better as a team. Their hard work wi.ll pay off in the upcoming; weeks \ H4lcl{ey i/25- RPI 7:00 Swimming 1/25- Middlebury· 2:00

S orts . · · · . . '@1 e oionco.rai:cnsis • Januar 23', 1997·· .Page 15 Settling tlte Score· -:.Jus-t a Few Pleasent Words • that the Packers are a 14-point favorite. As some of you may know; I am a brainwashed Gi- ants fan. Bill Parcells is the best coach around when given two weeks to prepare. for a team. He beat a superior Bill's team in 1991, as a 9-point dog with the Giants. But can he do it all again? Yes he can; and if not, it will be close. by Chris Leone Sports Editor Recently there has been a great debate in Washington and through out th:e schools in America over the is·sue of Ebonies. While I am a meager sports editor at a small liberal arts college, and claim to know very l-ittle a:bout the subject, I do real- · ize that there i~ an even greater language problem in tl1e sports world. This problem, which has crept into the vocabularies of athletes off all races, is not to be blamed solely on the system. Yes, it can be tied to a lack of educati.on or on the pressure put on college ath- letes to perform and ther~fore forgo serious, or in some cases minor, studying of the English language. Every athlete, no mat- ter what sport, dreams of being . on ESPN Sportscenter. However, what these athletes have fotgot· ten is that once they are on tele- ------ VISion, they might be forced to speak a few words about them- selves of about their respective teams. - Whe~1listening to the modern pl~yer speak· there are several probleins thatcome to mind. The phrase '\'you know'' has become the standard for our talented ath- letes. lt is a phrase not necessar- ily used. to answer a question but rather to start a sentence. My fa- vorjte example js the standard quote, ''YoJ know, we.played well.'' DuriJ1g a thirty second in- terview during the NHL All Star· game, goalie Patrick Roy was able to utter this phrase a total of five tirnes. Who exactly are these atfiletes~ like P~trl~k, referrlngtoo when they use the word \You';? \You\ is not the only pronoun that seems to stuntp these great linguists. The 1990's may well be remembered for some great tt:;ams and great players. How- . ever, it is ckar!y the \me\' or \I\ decade int~rms of interviews, Is . - - ' . . - it necessary t<;> hear either \l\ or \rne\ in every other ~entence'. Athletes pay agents a lot of money to handle publicity. They do not need to promote thetn- sdves .to a further level. The third category in the world of sports vocabulary is the use · ofexpletives. Athletes have al- ways been known to curse and swear. This maybe fine iH the heat of a cohtes'ted battle, but is it necessary to aCt like a punk when speakingto the press? The best example of thi~ problem is ·Jim Mora, ex -head coach ofthe New Orleans Saints. Upon re• signing as the coach, Mora spent a whole press conference de- . scribiRg what was wrong with his team. He was absolutely correct to tear his dismal team apart, but did he have to have himselfbe \bleeped\ out for every other word? In today 's !11odem world, most pm;athletes bring in more money i1i one year than the cost0fa four year Union education. However, this abundance of money does not excuse the poor grammar and tlie o~scene vocabt!lary. These ath- letes are the heroes of the next g·enerations of athletes to come, and they have responsibiliti~s, whether they wish to accept them or not. Some six-year.-old, watch- ing television somewhere i11 this couliltry, does not need to hear a coach's or a players expletive- fiNed or grammatically incorr~ct rabble. I ask all ofthese offend- ers to leave it on the field, for in same minds there is stiU S()me room to be influenced. * * * * * • * * * * Super Bowl Jlredi.ctions arc to take the over, which at press time was 50 points, according to all Vegas Casinos. Fifty j3oints is a tough number, but ·considering the astro-turf factor and the tact that most AFC teams forget to play de tense during Super Bowls, it is a stable choice . Now, 'I must address the tact I am sq glad that pitcher David Wells has decided to build his criminal resume now that he has joined the Yankees staff. Just what the Bronx needs, another animal fOF the zoo. Attention all New York Jets fans, there are only 84 days until the April 19th draft. Meanwhile, the Jets are still looking for a coach, so put the finishing touches on your resumes fast. With the New York Giants hir- ing Jim Fassell, there has at least been one local coaching vacancy occupied. But, to put my cynical spin on the hiring, why does New York need a man from the Ray Handley years? Amy.Dougherty: SucceS's Down· a Long Road b;:v. Frank Rossi Staff Writer Dougherty played mainly as a Coach Burt said, \Last year, he- priate treatment and recei \Vi ng freshmen on the .team, she has as- post player, but while her college ing my first year, they were a little clearance to play, Dougherty sumed a leadership role. Fellow coach tried to ease her into a new tentative about what they sho1.IId brqught her statistics back to nor- senior Amy H itz says that A sport which has been gain- role, she started to lose confi- do. This year, things ha.ve run mal ( 4.6 points per game and. 96 Dougherty has the characteristics ing a great deal of crowd support dence. Her statistics were decent very smoothly, and I am r.eally rebounds). 'The end of the sea- of a great leader and ballplayer. and fans over the past few sea- during he_r first two seasons (av- pleased with Amy.\ This rela- sor1 was really good for me ... ' \[Dougherty] is a silent player. sons at Union College in eraging 6 points per game in her tionship was seen most 1nidway Dougherty credits Coach Burt She contributes through her ac- Schenectady, New· York is freshman season and 4.4 as a intoDougherty'sjuniorseasonas · withalotofpatienccduringhcr tions of playing hard on the women's basketball. Much of the sophomore), but she was not the she faced a larger setback. health problems. \Before I knew court.\ Hitz and Dougherty have credit for its expansion goes to happiest of players.· \In my Last season during a trip to I was sick, I was just frustrated, fanned a great relationship on and Glassboro, New Jersey's Amy sophomore year, I· was com- California, Dougherty caught a and what do you do with a frus- off the court, and Hitz sums rt up Dougherty. pletely CQnfused, and I don't re- gastrointestinal virus and was trated player?:' Once she was as a two~way street. \Doc has A graduate of Glassboro High · member much of my sophomore misdiagnosed by dQctors. While correctly diagnosed, Coach Burt been a support for me. She 1 i.fts School, Dougherty credits her year.\ .she continued to play,~she noticed continued to help her back into me up on and off the court, and it mother,whocoachedherinsev- AftetDougherty'ssophomore thatshewasnotthesameplayer. the lineup, but not before works both ways. We can be enth and eighth grade, · friends and still criti- withmuchofhersuccess. =·~--2m~~0;';~~~~~'f\'?'~'3 .. cize each other on the \She's been my personal ·. court, but we leave that coach my whole life. She on the court.\ drove me all over the Dougherty concurs country for tournaments, \Hitz is not only a and she comes to almost friend and a teammate. every game she can.'' In but she· sa coach. She high school, Dougherty has a great mind fur the and her team enjoyed a · game of basketball .. decent amountofsuccess Even though the at Glassboro. \We did . team has struggled in welL We'd go into states the win-loss column. and do pretty well, but we their play this s.eason is would lose in states.\ She n1uch better, as they credits her AAU basket- narrowly lost three ball experience during games earlier in the high schgol with getting. season. \Doc who her recruited by colleges. coming into the season The only basketball tallied 92 blocked player out of five chi!- shots, has broken the dren, Dougherty and her century mark for friends and family at blockedshotswith 107. home are still very close, Dougherty has some even though she had· to short-term goals before spend a lot oftimc \vork~ her college career ends ing on her game. \I \f'm aiming for above missed a lot in high a .500 reconL l want school, and I always won- to come back and beat dered if [my friends] St. Lawrence and ~~:~ ~~:~l!ei: t~:;~n~ r· -~~. ·~··-~·-·~·-~ .. ~,.~~ .. :.\ ... : .... ;~··· .. :~c:. .. ~•.,,~ ... =. ~- .= .... ::~,.; ... ::::=====:::::=====~~2~£~~~~~~s~~~~j ~a~~:~nwi 1 nj~~gwa7: dcrstand\ sounds simple. hut 1 ... ~ . ' Union College was an want to go out on a easy choice for Sellior Amy Dougherty displays (l rare mix of Size and Agility to gai11 better position. (Sports b~(omWioll Pept,) winning feel in g.\ Dougherty, who applied to sev- season, Coach Mary Ellen Burt . \In practices, I would be running Dougherty Wll;,s.ready. \Once she In the long term, Dougherty has era! schools. \1 came twice, and took over as head coach of the as fast as I could, and I was still a found out, she was wonderfuL graduate school in her sight, but during the second visit, i was Union women ;s basketball team. half-court length behind the last She said, 'I want you to get bet- she might choose to go into the coming here, for all intents and Dougherty, who took 90 three- persorl. Coach couldn't play me ter. I want you to play as soon· as Peace Corps or Americorps be- purposes.\ She is no lightweight point shots in her first two sea- for more than a minute-and-a..:half you can, but not a second before fore further schooling. Her aim in the classroom, as she is trying sons, once again had to learn a at a time.\ Dougherty's field-goal you're ready.\' CoachBurtcred- is to get a job in the field of coastal to complete a double major in En- new role for her team .. \She sees percentage pl urri.meted below its Dougherty with finding the geology, which is a great fit to her vironmental Studies and Geol· me, and I'm the tallest player on thirty percent, and again, she was determinati011 to come back and majors. Coach Burt thinks that ogy.. theteam. Itwouldmakesenseto losing confidence. She would pick up the pieces after getting \Doc with'her dedication and AtUriion,\Doc\unknowingly stlck me underneath. She sleepsixteenhourseachday,but healthy. \Shereallyworkedher- drive, will dowell aftergradua- was embarking on a sometimes- wouldn 'tlet me shoot outside that she would still be exhausted. Fi- self into shape by staying nfter tion. «Opportunities will only bumpy college basketball career. much.\ While. she misses her nally, further blood work she had practice, doing extra sprints and present themselves in the futl,lre \I came into Union, and started outside game, \Doc\ and Coach done during winter break re- sit~ups, and things like thaC' for great things for Amy, and I my rookie year really well.\ In Burthavefonnedagoodrelation~ vealed that she was highly ane- This season, Dougherty is certainly think she'll de great in high school and AAU, 6'0\ shipduringthepasttwoseasons. mic. Afterreceivingtheappro- againastarter,andwithsomany anythingshegoesinto.\ - ~-

• • • at Men's Hockey seeks redemption this weekend in a must win game to stabilize playoff hopes . . by Jonathan Gastllalter Sports Edit()r The Capital District rivalry continued Saturday t:~ight, as the Skating Dutchmen traveled to RPI's Houston Fieldhouse. Ear- lierin fhe season, the Dutchme11, in the first atmual Capitol Skate Classic~ defeated theEngi11eers 2- 0 in ftont of-,5,000 fans at the Knickerbocker (now Pepsi) Arena. In that game, the Dutch- men got nineteen saves from Trevor Koenig and goals frorrt both Craig Reckin and Russ Mof:lteith. However, that game was for exhibition purposes and did not count in the ECAC stand· ings. Saturday night did count in the ECAC .standings, as the Dutchmen attempted to rebound front a difficult 4-2loss to Brown a week ago. In front of a crowd of 4,357, . the Dtttchmen took the ice, with sophomore goaltender Leeor Shtrom getting his fourth start and tirst agai.FISt an ECAC team of the season. Shtrom 's appearance in goal surprised many who were positive that in a game against Leeor Slttr.om, takes a break, a11d loss qt RPI. (Laurel R. T. Ruma I TC) ---------------~-~----___._....,;--._.,._~-~--i'........_-----~-------~------· arch-rival RPI, first year Union Jack Be Nimble and Jill Be Quick Despite Promising Start by the Wrimen, Hamilton Win.5 in the End by Jason Everett, Staff Writer The Union men's and women's track team opened the 1997 track season this past weekend in a dual meet against Hamilton College at Union's Memorial Field House facility; The women competed tough in the tield events and gallantly on the track but came up sliort, 7 losing 70 to 50. from a contest, Goveia showed The women had tremendous some tlair for the dramatic in the success in the field events, which 3200m relay. The first three legs is a welcomed change for the of Sara Mcintosh, MacDowel1 2 D u t c h w o m e 11 . C a r o I y n and Irene ran tough, yet found Cieslowski led offtheday by tak- themselves far behind cOlning ing first in the high jump, fol- into the final hand-off. Irene lowed by captain Michell.e made up signitlcant ground 011 Woodward, who came in first in Hamilton's third leg, butGove.ia the 20 lb. weiglit throw. Kathy still received the baton approxi- Bugden]ladasuccessfulday,tak- mately 45 'meten behind the ing first in the triple jump and Hamilton anchor and app~ared second in the long jump. Both out of contention. Despite the Jayne Seekins and Stefanie seemingly insurmountable dis- Speanburg also had great success ta11ce, Goveia ran aggressively in the tield, taking second in the and tenaciously, moving into tirst . sl:lot put and third in the shot put, pas~ the spent Hamilton runner respectively with 250m to go, and brought the The exciting races of the day relay to victory winning by ten were the l500m and the 3200m seconds. relay. First leading the charge was sophomore Katie MacDowell in the 1500m. MacDowell is coming off a strong XC season and appears to ha-ve made the transition to the shorter distances quickly. MacDowell rail a close second for most of the race be- hind a Hamilton runner and used a strong finishing kick to secure first place with 50 meters to go, to win by one second. Following the 1500 was Jessica Goveia in the 1 OOOm. She won decisively and·easily by eighteen seconds. Although the 1500 was far The Hamilton men won by a lopsided score of 89 to 44. De- spite the loss, the men's team once again showed that it could compete with the best, if winning events alone led to meet victories. SeniorCaptain Riggi commented afterwards that \this team i:.s one of the youngest and m0st prom~ ising teams we have had in a while, and I am excited to see how the season tums out.\ The loss can clearly be attributed t-e the tearn 's inability to cover all efthe events and to the la~k of devth in Contbmed 011 pt~ge U Coach Stan Moorewouldelectto go with Koenig; whose 2.18 'Goals Against Average is the highest in the nation. Coach Moore and his staff felt that Shtrom had played well in prac- ticeall week and that Koenig had played a lot over the past few weeks. \I think Trevor needed an opportunity to see some things thathecan do tobetterhisgame,\ M~ere said. ''But Leeor had a good week. We all felt, collec- tively, that he was the guy to go . to.\ RPI, perhaps motivated by the fact the Shtrom was between the pipes for the Dutchmen. came out with a measure of detenhination. . This paid off as the Engineers· Doug Battaglia scored on a re- bound of a shot that Shtrom had kicked out at 9:28 cfthe period. The Butchme11 fought back, get- ting a number of shots in on RPI goaltender Scott Ptekaski. · Fi- nally, Shtrom stopped two short- handed .attempts, i11duding a close in save on RPI' s Chris Aldous. Finally, with Jean- Francais Gosselin in the penalty box for holding, Union knotted the score on the power play. Freshman defenseman Neil White carried the puck into the zone and sent it back out to the point where Chris Ford was wait- ing.· Ford rifled a shot toward the · net, Jalnie Antoine was there for the deflection., and the Dutd11hen tied the score at one apiece at . 16:51. The second p~riod began as the first one had ended, with the Ctmtilmed 011 page 13 ' L

• • Men's Hockey seeks redemption this weekentl in a must win game to stabilize playoff hopes by Jonathan Gasthalter Sport.'! Editor The Capital District rivalry continued Saturday night, as the Skating Dutchmen traveled to RPI's Houston Fieldhouse Ear- lier in the season. the Dutchmen. in the first annual Capitol Skate Classic, deteated the Engineers 2- 0 in front of 5,000 fans at the Knickerbocker (now Pepsi) Arena. In that game. the Dutch- men got nineteen saves from Trevor Koenig and goals from both Craig Reckin and Russ Monteith. However, that game was for exhibition purposes and did not count in the ECAC stand- ings. Saturday nightdidcountin the EC AC standings. as the Dutchmen attempted to rebound from ad ifficult 4-2loss to Brown a week ago. In front of a crowd of 4,357, the Dutchmen took the Ice. with sophomore goaltender Leeor Shtrom getting his fourth start and first against an ECAC team of the season. Shtrom 's appearance in goal surprised many who were positive that in a game against Leeor Shtrom, takes a break, a11d looks to lleave11s duri11g a 5-2 loss at RPI. (Laurel R. T. Ruma I TC) -----------------------------------------------------· arch-rival RPI, first year Union Jack Be Nimble and Jill Be Quick Despite Promising Start by the Women, Hamilton Wins in the End by Jason Everett, Staff Writer The Union men's and women's track team opened the 1997 track season this past weekend in a dual meet against Hamilton College at Union's Memorial Field House facility. The women competed tough in the tield events and gallantly on the track hut came up short, Katie McDowell on Iter way to wimtiltg lite 1500m event (Laurel R. T. Rnma I TC) losing 70 to 50. from a contest, Goveia showed The women had tremendous some tlair for the dramatic in the sLiccess in the field events, whid1 3200m relay. The first three legs is a welcomed change for the of Sara Mcintosh, MacDowell, Dutch w o m en. C a r o I y n and Irene ran tough, yet found Cieslowskiledoffthedaybytak- themselves far behind coming ing first in the high jump, fol- into the final hand-off Irene lowed by captain Michelle made up significant ground on Woodward, who came in first in Hamilton's third leg, but Goveia the 20 lb weight throv.. Kathy still received the baton approxi- Bugden had a successful day, tak- mately 45 1neters behind the ing first in the triple jump and Hamilton anchor and appeared second in the long jump. Both out of contention Despite tl1e Jayne Seekins and Stefanic seemingly insurmountable dis- Speanburg also had great success tance, Goveia ran aggressively in the field, taking second in the and tenaciously. moving into first shot put and third in the shot put, past the spent Hamilton runner respectively with 250m to go. and brought the The exciting races of the day relay to victory winning by ten were the 1500m and the 3200m seconds. relay. First leading the charge The Hamilton men won by a was sophomore Katie MacDowell lopsided score of 89 to 44. De- in the 1500m. MacDowell is spite the loss, the men's team coming off a strong XC season once again showed that it could and appears to have made the compete with the best if winning transition to the shorter distances events alone led to meet victories. quickly. MacDowell ran a close Senior Captain Riggi commented second for most of the race be- afterwards that \this team is one hind a Hamilton runner and used a strong finishing kick to secure first place with 50 meters to go, to win by one second. Following the 1500 was Jessica Goveia in the IOOOm. She won decisively and easily by eighteen seconds. Although the 1500 was far of the youngest and most prom- ising teams we have had in a while, and I am excited to see how the season tLJrns out.\ The loss can clearly be attributed to the team's inability to cover all ofthe events and to the lack of depth in Co11tinued 011 page 14 Coach Stan Moore would elect to go with Koenig, whose 2.18 Goals Against Average is the highest in the nation. Coach Moore and his staff felt that Shtrom had played well in prac- tice all week and that Koenig had played a lot over the past few weeks. \I think Trevor needed an opportunity to see some things that he can do to better his game,\ Moore said \But Leeor had a good week. We all felt collec- tively, that he was tl1e guy to go to.\ RPI, perhaps motivated by the fact the Shtrom was between the pipes for the Dutchmen. came out with a measure of determination This paid off as the Engineers' Doug Battaglia scored on a re- bound of a shot that Shtrom had kicked out at 9 28 of the period The Dutchmen fought back. get- ting a number of shots in on RPl goaltender Scott Prekaski fi- nally, Sl1trom stopped two short- handed attempts, including a close in save on RPI's Chris Aldous. Finally, with .lean- Francois Gosse! in in the penalty box for holding, Union knotted the score on the power play Freshman defenseman Neil White carried the puck into the zone and sent it back out to the point where Chris Ford was wait- ing. Ford ritled a shot toward the net. .Iamie Antoine was there for the deflection, and the Dutchmen tied the score at one apiece at 16:51. The second period began as the first one had ended, with the Coltlimted 011 page 13

' L Good Shots -by Michelle Neier Staff Writer Beginning February 10, the Union Col'lege Arts Department will be higl1lighting photographic work taken by a, surprising group of people. The exhibit, entitled Good Shots, is one of the tangible results of a class tauglat by Pro- fessor Martit:1 Benjamin t'O nine Schenectady ARC (Association for Retarded Citizens) clients. AU ofthepicturesin the display have been taken by ARC students, Pro- fessor Benjamin, or his assistants, Noelle Pirnie, Douglas Tanner,, and ManishaTinani. · Pr.ofessO:r Benjamin's class, which has been in existence since Spring of last year at the Mapleridge Center, is modeled on his photograpchy I c.lass. Al- tho·ugh .the- students -did have some limitations, Professor Ben- jam in taught them how to use the cameras lie supplied and gave the students the iHspiration and cour- age to go out and photograph people and things that they found · interesting. To the extreme de:- light of Professor- Benjamin and the community, the results have been nothing but exceptional. Although not always technicaliy correct, the photos are filled with emotion, and each one tells a dif- ferent story. There is one picture, for instance, by .lenni DeMarco, of two women who work at the bakery across the street from the Mapleridge Center. When asked to take a picture of something that she loves, .lenni asked to take a picture ofthe two women she sees every day when she goes into the bakery. Atthough she origit1ally had trouble taking only a single exposure, .the final product was great. The idea for the class emerged in January 1994 when Professor Benjamin was asked to photo- graph at the Sc11enectady ARC facilities. He tnade arrangements for possibly getting his students involved and raised the idea of also teaching a class at the cen- ter. About twenty years ago, Pro- fessor Benjamin went on a camp- ing trip with a group of Albany ARC c1 ients. He showed them his work and then supplied them ·with inexpensive. simple cameras to take their own pictures. Profes~ sor Benjamin was thrilled with the work, and at his meeting with the Schenectady ARC he mentioned continued on page 3 INSIDE: Features: Sports: Curious- George & Friends page 8 · Brian Field Leads Divers page20 Professor Martin Benjamin tmd ARC plwto class (photo by Laurie 'KirsclmernC) Professor Fox Reflects in Wall Street Journal on ''A Child's Wish'' Aileen Quigley AssistantNews Editor Child's Wish was not the simple made-for-television movie drama it appears to be. Presidents of the United States Since the creation of the tete- are no strangers to the television vision, politicians have taken ad- camera, though it is not often that vantage of its wide-reaching ca- the two meet inanything but a po- pabilities to advertise their ideas litical forum. The movie A . argue their beliefs, and, starti~~ Child's Wish, aired on CBS on . with Richard Nixon's appearance the day of Clinton's inauguratioR, . on \Rowan and Martin's Laugh- is no exception to this rule, ac- . In\ in I 968, utilize it as a valu- cording to Professor Richard Fox able public relations tool. While of the political science depart- . this helps in \humanizing the can- ment. Togetl-ter with Teresa _didates,\ today's viewers are in- 9rtega, Professor Fox co~ undated with \infomercials\ and authored an article in the Wall other carefully-calculated, image- Street Journal statingthat A buildingrepresentationsofallthe candidates. Professor Fox feels that Clinton may have compro- mised the sincerity of his future public addr~sses by appearing in A Child's Wish,sit1cethemovie's political agenda was·not exactly subtle, by any sense of the word. The story of A Child's Wish centers around the last wish of a cancer-.stricken young girl to meet the President. The movie is based on the true story of two girls who actually met the president under similar circtunstances. The main \theme ofthe drama was the Fam· ity and Medical and Act, and as contillued on page J . • 1 . Confronts Rink Issue by Chris Leone Sports Etlitor President Roger HuH, who has recently been criticized by the stu- dent body on the future of Achil- les Rink, took a teVJ minutes to speak With the Concordien . .,·is President Hull addressed the rink issues, the proposed plan for u Rew rink, and his reaction to the views ex pressed by fmmy stu- dents Students have expressed their concern through signs held d ur- ing this past weekend'sRPl game Concerned members of the com- munity have expressed their opin- IOns over the mrwavcs ofWRUC It 1s onlv fair l<l hear the adrryinistration's vin1 on the cur- rent issues. The following is an exact tran- script of the interview President Hull gave on Tuesdeyrnorning. Leone: At this point, what is the current status ofthe situation re- garding a new hockey rink? There has been considerable talk around campus aboutlease agree- ments, and options to buy. What is currently being discussed? Hull: At this point I absolutely, honestly have no feeling of where I am goi11g to be going with this and what I will be recommend- ing to the board. I do know that I will not be recommending any- thing to the Board .of Trustees next weekend [February 8-91 when they are here, because at this juncture I simply do not have enough information. Leone: The cost of fixing the faulty compressors at Achilles has been estimated to cost $500,000. The total cost of refurbishing the rink would be 2.5 million. Why is there a difference? Hull: That [the costs] is correct The compressors are obviously the immediateproblem, and if one were to simply fix the comnres- . sors that would be a relatively . cheap way of dealing with the problem. However, the rink is not what it should be in a number of ways. Aside from the fact that the compressors do not work prop- erly, the lobby area and the facility's men's and women's locker rooms are not what they should be, So, when you put those things all together, the nllm- ber balloons. continued tm page 4 (:ampus New.\· ..................................... 2 Feature,\· ..................... ···:, ......................... , ..... 8 Glolw/ News ............................... / 3 Opinions!Hdilorials . ........................ 6 Arts and Entertainme1ii ............................ JO Sport.\· ................................ , ......... 2 {)

~~- --~-- ·------~ ---- ~~--~ ·campus: Features: Sports: A OP Appoints New Director page 5 Curious George & Friends pageS Brian Field Leads Divers page20 Good Shots by :\Jtichelle Neier Staff Writer -- ------- -- -- Beginning February I 0, the Union College Arts Department will be highlighting photographic work taken by a surprising group of people. The exhibit, entitled Good Shots. is one of the tangible results of u class taught by Pro- fessor Martin Benjamin to nine Schenectady ARC (Association tor Retarded Citizens) clients. All ofthe pictures in the display have been taken hy ARC students, Pro- fessor Benjamin. or his assistants. Noelle Pirnie. Douglas Tanner. and Manisha Tinani Professor Benjamin's class, which has been in existence since Spring of last vear at the Mapleridgc Center. is modeled on his photography I class. Al- though the students did have some limitations. Professor Ben- jamin taught them how to use the cameras he supplied and gave the students the inspiration and cour- age to go out and photograph people and things that they found interesting. To the extreme de- light of Professor Benjamin and the community, the results have he en nothing but exceptional. Although not always technically correct the photos are filled with emotion. and each one tells a dif- ferent story There is one picture for instance. hy .lenni DeMarco, of two women who work at the bakery across the street from the Mapleridge Center. When asked to take a picture of something that she loves, .lenni asked to take a picture of the two \vomen she sees every day when she goes into the bakery .Aitliougt1 sl~e originally had trouble taking only a single exposure. the final product \vas great The idea for the class emerged in January 1994 when Professor Benjam m was asked to photo- graph at the Schenectady ARC facilities He made arrangements for possibly getting his students involved and ratsed the idea of also teach mg a class at the cen- ter A bout twenty years ago, Pro- lessor Benjamin went on a camp- ing trip \Vith a group of Albany ARC clients. He showed them his work and then supplied them with inexpensive. simple cameras to take thetr own pictures Profes- sor Benjamin ·was thrilled with the work. and at his meeting with the Schenectady ARC he mentioned continued on page 3 .o·.·; ·:S • ~ •.. The Student Nt?wspaper of Union College Since 1877 Professor Martin Benjami11 and ARC photo class (photo by Laurie Kirsclmer/T(') ------:=----=----------~-___::__-----~----~-~ - Professor Fox Reflects in Wall Street Journal on ''A Child's Wish'' Aileen Quigley Assista11t News Editor Presidentsofthe United States are no strangers to the tel cvision camera, though it is not often that the two meet in anything but a po- littcal forum The movie A Child's Wish, aired on CBS on the day ofCl inton 's inauguration. is no exception to this rule, ac- cording to Professor Richard Fox of the political science depart- ment. Together with Teresa Ortega, Professor Fox co- authored an article in the Wall Street Journal stating that A l'hifd's Wish was not the simple Jnade-for-tclevision movie drama Jt appears to he Since the creation of the tele- v i~ ion. politicians have taken ad- vantage of its wide-reaching ca- pabilities to advertise their ideas. argue their beliefs. and, starting with Richard Nixon· s appearance on \Rowan and Martin's Laugh- In\ in 1968, utilize it as a valu- able public relations tool While this helps in \humanizing the can- didates,\ today's viewers are in- Lindated with \infomercials\ and other carefully-calculated, image- building representations of all the cand idatcs Professor Fox feels that Clinton may have compro- mised the sincerity of his future public addresses hy appearing in A Child's Wish. since the movie's political agenda \Vas not exactly subtle. by any sense of the word The story of A Child's Wish centers around the last wish of a cancer-stricken young girl to meet the President The movte is hased on the true story of two girls who actually met the prestdent under similar circumstances The main theme of the drama was the Fam- ily and Medical and Act and as conti11ued on page 3 .,., ·t'iiil·,_·. s·.,,':·· ~ ,., ' '-:• ..... •· ~ ,. ,• Confronts Rink Issue hy ( 'hris Lrone Sports Editor President Roger llul L \\ ho ha~ recently hecn CrJllCIZeU [ly the stu- dent hod) on the future uf Achil- les Rink. took a fc,, mmutes tll speak \\ 1th the < 'uncordtel/s/.1 President I lull aJJres~eJ the rlllJ... issues. the pwpust:d rlan fix a ne\\ rink. and h1:-, n:actJnn to tilt· \ ic\\s expressed h1 man\ '>Ill- dents :-;tuJclll~ h:l\ L' L''prc~-,cJ lht'Jr concern thwugh ~igns ill·IJ dur- ing this rast \\eckenJ's RPI game ( 'nncerned lllt'lllhl'fs ofthe t'llll1- nH1111l\ h:l\ l'l'\ rres~ed their t lr)Jf1- IOns o\ er the :un\ \' L''> of\\'Rl.( · It 1'. onl\ L11r to ile:1r tilt· admlnlstratJon·..,,,t.'\\ un the t'ur- rent issues The t'ollm\ mg 1' an exact tran- ~cnpt of the mte nIL'\\ l're~Jlknt f lull gave Pll TuL·sJay moming f.t'Wii..'. At this J'lOilll. 11hat 1s tilL' current status oftl1e situation re- garding a Ill'\\ lwckcv r1nk' 1 There h:ls hcen mnsluerahle talk around cam pus :1hout kase agree- ments .. and options tu hm \\'hat IS curn:ntlv hemi!. J 1scussed' 1 !lull At thi~ Jll}Jll\ I ahsolutel\. honestlv ha\L·no ti:elmg ul\\herL' I am go mg to he gomg '' 1th th Js and \\hut I will he recommend- ing to the hl1ard I do knD\\ that I \\ill not he recommendmg an~­ thing to the Bomd of Trustees next weekend [ Fchruarv l-P)j \\hen thev arc l1crc. hccause at this juncture I si1nplv do not ha\e enough mformation !.emu: The Cl)St of fi' mg the faulty compressors ut Achilles has hcen estimated tn cost $500_()()() The total cost ofrefurhishmg the rmk \\ould he :2 5 tmllinn \\11\ is there a dit'll:retll:e·> /lull That [the t:osts jts correct The compressor~ are oh\ iousl\ the tmmcdiate prohlem. and if one were to simplY fix the compres- sors that \\ould he a relative!\ cheap way of dealing with the prohlem I lowevcr. the rink is not what it should he in a number of \\avs Aside from the t~1ct that the compressors do not work rwr- erly, the lohh~ area and the facilitv's men's and \\ntnen·s locker rooms ;1n.· not ''hat thl'\ should he So. \\hen vnu put those things all tug.dher, the num- ber hal loons continued on paoe 4 • • • ' ' ' • • • '· • • • • • • r • • • , • , • • 1 .: • • • 1 INSIDE: Campus News ........ .. . ········ .... 2 Features .. .H ( ilohal Ni!ws . . 13 __________ ......:.:..._.::.....:... __ o_p_;,_,;t_lf_,.\_ll_:·c_li_Jo_r_ia_l.\_· . . _. ___ ·_· ._ .. _ .. . _6 _______ A_r_ls_a_n_d_I_:·n_le_'r_ta_i,_z'_\_e'--\_· ._ .. ·--· ·--· ·--·. --·. ~.:.:..:____:.:· ·~· . .:__/ f:___I __ ~S::_I:m~:..:_r~ts~·· ·.:__· :..:_· ·_:.:· ·:___· ·:..:_· ~~~__:_-~ __ _}0 .. _ ~ __ ...

Campus Info CAMPUS SAFETY 'DEPA~TMENT WE.EKLY INClD:ENTSUMMARY MONDAY, JANUARY20,1997THROUGHSUNDAY,JANUARY16,.1997 DATE/TIME LOCATION . . . . INCIDENT 1. 2. 4. Academic Affairs Coun·cU 1/1:4/97 Submitted by Christie Sorum The minutes of January 8, 1997 were .approV\ed. Prof. Doug Klein, Chair of Economics, discussed .the e)(ternal review of the Departrnellt The Dep~rtment has held a series of -meetings to discuss the curriculum suggestions, especially the option ofmaking, mathema- tics a requirement for the major and moving r111ore cour~es to the i'three-digit\ level. A small committee within the department will pres~n1 a proposal to be implemented in Fall, 1997. The next meeting will be devoted to discussion of the calendar. The meeting adjourned at 9:20 a.m. MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1997: No Serious incidents reported. TUESDAY, JANUARY 21, 1997: 4:44AM Rink area 8:21AM Butterfield . 1;25 PM Peschel Center . 4:l5 PM Operations Lot 11 :20PM Btttterfield . WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 22, 1997; · 9:50AM Humanities Bldg. !'. 12:05 PM The Student Affairs Council will be cond.u~ting a review process for Alumni Gym VANDALISM: Trash storage hin damaged. Safety hazard created due to exposed nails. BURGLARY /THEFT: Forced entry into faculty member's office. Laptop computer stolen .. UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY: Staff men1ber':s office computer used without au- thorization. Data files damaged. VANDALISM: Damage to hood of staff member's vehicle .. .-THEFT: Student's laptop computer taken ·from unsecured area in conference room . SAFETY HAZARD:. Improper storage 1n attic stairwell THEFT: Student'sjaeket stol.en trom unse~ cured area. ·housing renewal for Sigma Del-ta Tau, KaJpa Alpha~ a11d· Bronner 12:45 PM House. Those who would like to share their impressions (Jf any of the houses should submit comments by February 17~ 1997,. in writing to: 2 : 45 PM Achilles Lot OffCatnpus PARKING VIOLATION: Misuse ofhandi,. capped parking permit. RECKLESSDRIVING: Residentreported Union van being driven in an unsafe man- Prof. Hugh Jenkins, SAC Cbair English Department Humanities Building E,astern Mediterranean Sapropels£ A record of Productivily, Ba~in Hydrography; and Climate Ch.ange . ' by Dr. Michael W. Howell Chief Scient, Ocean Orilli11g 'Project ·\ ' . Butterfield 201 · Thursday, January 30th at4:30 PM Department of Biological Sciences and The Biology Club Present: HIV AND AIDS: AN UPDATE Dr. James McS}!arry Department of Microbiology, lmmllnology, and /MI{)lecular Genetics, Albany Medit:ai College Thursday, January 30, 199/ at 4:40-p.m. Social Sdenc~s I 03 The Biology c·tub & Biology Dep~rtment. Prese-nt:· V. Daniel Castracane Ph.D: .. Projess()r & Lab()ratory Director, Department of O~stetrlcs & Gynecology, Texas Tec{z U11iversity Hetrltlz Science-..5 Center, Amarillo, Texlls Update oR th·e l\1enopause: Physiology, Symptom:s & Treatment Options Tuesday, February 4 at4:30 p.m. Reamer Campus Center Auditorium Wednesday Nights at -r1111rstaa Hmuse This Week, February 5 at 6:0() PM: A :Food-Focused Double Feature 4:30PM AlumniGyrn.Lot 5:53PM AlumniUytri · .11;48 PM · Fox House · . ' ' . ner. - PARKING: Handicapped parking sign re- moved without authorization. EQUIPMENT MALFUNCTION/IN- JURY:· Weight training machinemalfunc- tio!lt!dwhile in use. Student reported Injury. , DISORDERLY COND-UCT: Student in-- . tertering in functim'l of desk attendant. Con- . dHct Charges: filed . . THURSDAY, JANUARY 23, 199~-~ . - . .12;01AM .·:: EdwardsHouse· . - .,. LIFESAFETYVlOLATION:-Falsefire 1;37 AM Raymond South 4:00PM· Peschel Center .. . FRIDAY, JANUARY 24, 1997: I :50 AM '· · ·- Cain pus Safety 4:45AM. Old Cliapel . • ··alarm due to abuse of smoke detector. Life SaJety Violation Notice filed. FIRE: Minor fire in student's roorn when clothing was accidentally ignited by-ctga- . rette ashes. No damage or injury. THEFT: Telephone cable taken from staff member's office . · HARASSMENT: Operator received abusive call from off campus.- Believed to be same suspect who has called WRUC in the past. SAFETY HAZARD: Operating portable space heater left unattended. · 3:1.5 PM Fox/Davidson Lot 't:>ROPERTV DAMAGE: Student'scar dented. Cause undetennined. SATURI}AY, JANUA~Y 25, 1997: 2: 13 AM Reamer Ce11ter !0:40AM Potter ·soutb 11:10 AM Rayinond/P-otter\Lot 7:00PM . Achilles Rink I 7:10PM Achilles Rink SUNDAY, JANUARY 26,1997: 4:30AM West College . ' ' VANDALISM: Glass in soutl1 entry door -· ·shattered. SAFETY HAZARD: Improper storage blocking exitway. Life Safety Violation No- -.· tice t1led. · - :-PROPERTY DA,MA-G.E: SttJdent'scar dented. Cause undetennined . SAFETY HAZARD: Risk of personal in- jury due to oranges thrown by spectators onto ri11k surface during game Two spectators ., identified. Conduct Charges filed. · SllBST ANCEABUSE: ·Alcoholic bever- age brought into rink. Conduct Charges filed. DISORDERLY CONDUCT1 Student's guest was disruptive and abusive to staff member. ·5:03AM South College SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Unknown sus- pect running through hallways shouting. Suspect not located. 4:32PM Old Chapel area 6:30PM Becker Hall TOGETHER FOR A SAFE CAMPUS: PUBLIC LEWDNESS: Suspect exposed himself Area searched. Suspect not located VANDALISM: Glass in north entry door shattered. I) There /taw:: been se)•era/ recent thefts of persmial proper(y tlrat·ltas been left ill unsecured or unattended areas. Sucll tlrefts have occurred at the gym, campus center, academic areas and at social events. Wlret!e)'er possible and practical, please keep your personal property in your possession or wit/rill your sigltt or make altemate ar-rangements for tile safeguarding of tftese valuable:,·. 2) Fire Safety concems •.. A) During this time of year the use of space heaters becomes common in many areas throughout campus. Space heaters witlt open /teat- . ing elements are a serious fire risk and are twt recommended for use on campus. If space )>()po, The Japanese Classic about I()Ve and notOdles heaters are needed to supplemetit normal /reat supply please contact Campus Operatiomjor . AND advice. Please do noi leave space heaters operating in u1wttellded areas. B) Please use care ffiat Drink Man Woman: Emoti()nal Food-fig]tts in a and caution while smoking and it~ disposal of smoking materials. 3) We are again e.t:perl- Taiwanese Family encing an upswing in lnisuse of our emerge1tcy teleplto11es oil campus. Suclt .misuse is a disservice to tlte campus and tlte purpose fo.t which t/iese plro11es are intended. Please coop.- (Cit.inese dumplings will be served to celebrate the Cllinesl! rt1~w year) L---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~erafuwhdp~~campusmfe~ I • I ,, t I _(

Campus News , - . 'IDl1e <ITnttt:nr~ic~tEi:s • January 30, 1997 • Page 3 •.• Shots continued from page 1 ''The· Nake:d Truth'' the project. Although some ofthe at Union. They each presented directors of the center were ap- three of their photographs and out that men still \do not live in a products being advertised are prehensi:ve about the idea, they told what they did like and did not world where their bodies arerou. themselves sexualized. To dem- agreed to try it. AU of the sup-. like about them. Many of the de- tinely judged.\ The difference onstrate this point, she presented . plies for the class were donated scriptions included what they between the commercial percep- an ad for Eastpak backpacks, by a grant from the Ilford Co. and liked about the subject matter. by Anjali Balasingbam StaffWriter On Tuesday, January 21, the tions ofmeri and women was ex- showing .a single male in fourdif- by a grant from Union College. Professor Benjamin was pleased Union community had the oppor- emplified by an ad for ad iamond ferent scenes, with fo.ur different The students range from a young with their work and rewarded tunity to hear a d·iscussionnn the carat. The ad was captioned by girls, but with the same backpack. woman in her twenties to some them all with a certificate of ac- popular subject of women in the the I ines \The diamond cari:lt. The caption for the ad asked, who are into their seventies. complishment from Union Col- media. At 7 p.m. in the Catnpus When a Ihan 's achievemellt be\ \Who says guys are afraid of One of the. first classes Profes- lege. He remarked that form any Center, the Womyn' s Union comes a woinan's good fortune.\ commitment?\ The underlying · sor Benjamin held with the stu- of the students this was the most hosted \TheNaked Truth,\aslide Thl~ message, Kilbourne con- idea wasthatwhilegirlscameand dents was a trip to his own ex- exciting partoftakingtbeclass. presentati<m an~ talk by Dr. Jean eluded, was that \women are sex went with this man, he stayed true · hibit. He was encouraged by the The class was just as reward- Kilbourne. In her fourth appear- objects and rnen are success ob- to his backpack. Kilboume stated responses O.f t11e students. They ing for the student interns and a11ce at Union, she was met by a jects.\ that such ads encourage people to surprised him by recognizing the Professor Benjamin as it was for completely packed auditorium. . A m~jor theme ofthe presenta• \valuethings more thanpeople.\ photos which he had shown them the ARC clients. On taking pic- Recently named one of the three tion was on theconternpt tbr over- Violence as well as sex earlier. Professor Benjamin com- tures .of the group, Noelle Pirnie most popi.:tlar lec~~rers on col•lege weight fetnales that the media is trivi a,I ized in the media, merited that, \I knew then that said, \At first I was very distant, campuses, she has acted as ad vi- encourages. Citing that '\tt l~Etst Kilbourne suggested. A pertine11t they knew how to look at pictures. but eventually I would get right sor to the Surgeon Qeneral, ana oneoutoffive youngWolilepsllf- Gloria Vanderbilt ad depicted a . Theyknew whatthey were look· up close, right in their faces, and testified for the United States fer froth eating disord.ers \ woman alone outside on a rainy · ing at, not from a technical stand- that's when I started to 8et to Congress as welL , . , . . Kilbourne juxtaposed ad~ featllt'- ·night, looking over her shoulder pointof composition or exposure, know them as people.\ Kilboumebeganbyaskingthe ingKateMossandthecornpara- at a mysterious shadow. · butffomtheirpersonalmeaning.\ At this time, Professor. Ben- audience to take advertisiJ1gseri- tively .chubby Marilyn ~OIU(:)e. Kilbourne categorized this as a Later in the course, the group took jarnin has been preparing his stu- ously as one ofthe most power~ \Women's bodies haven't \romantic adventure\ ad, which . trips to.hunpin' Jacks, .lay Street, dents for the coming ex:hibit. ful forces in society. \Ads sell a changed. The ideal .[body] h~s \nonnfd izes the issue ofviolence\ and Cafe Dolce. They have titled all oftheir works great deal more than produots.. changed.\ Kilbourne pointed out by making dangerous situations Just as he does with his Union and decided what photos they They sell images,\ sh.e said .. tl,latonlyfivepercentofwomen seem appealing. \Violence is students,onthelastdayofclass, wanttobeintheshow. Allofthe \Theytell who· we :at~ .. •' · ; ero~iciz~d in ads, and that Professor Benjamin provided the ARC clients involved will be apaw])o we shqi:Jld be:;. . . , .. , ,, \ ·+ , . desensitizes us to it,\ she students with lunch and had them present' at the official Artists R.e- Shecontinuee!\ttiv>.(cy.that .. ~·~··Women's bodies haven't said. giveacritiqueoftheirworkhere ceptiononFebruary 13. the primary goal.ofher .·· , .. , In closing,, Dr. a.-1' • dfi J pre~entation,wa~.tp O~t?lJ ;ch.ange.d. The ideaL[b ody 1 _Kil~ourne eihph~sjz¢d' .. f :-_.!/!rQJ !J1'Q~ :CfJ~n.tffl~Jr . . Ff!mpage up coR')mums;~ttQn , that her goal was not to the· Wall Street Journal article [the young girl's) wheelchair.\ about .the ·~ttltud~s t~~::.~;.:.':,·d h<is: changed,\ Dr. Jean completely censor the ',, s.tate§. it :'htghlfghted the l.~ng ; As touching as the scene may wards women that are K ·zb . ·d . §' • , m,ec\ifl, but rather to en- political p.focessleading up to the be, Professor Fox viewsC!int<Jn's perp~tt.\at~d 'Qy the me- l ourne s~al' . ~ourage free speech\ passage cifthe act: tlie fainily pan h1·the movie in terms of a dia. . .. ,, , , . . about what the media pre:- despairs after hearing the news of potential political motive. Hehe- Kilbou.rne RO:?t~:.tlaJed· sents. She further s~ated President Bush's veto and later lieves that we are all well aware that the. dist9r-je.~. im,ages of ~.~tual}y have the ~Jlfrent:i.deal thatevtmthough \it'snotenough gathers into the living room to of the president's desire to \be wmnen,i;nthe11Jedia.cqntribl,Iteto body type, characterized by a just to have a better image,\ cog- watch TV. footage of President' loved by the American people,\ misconception~~bouf'ferninine\ . l!lrg~, height, narrow hips, a11d nizance of the media's influence Clinton- sfgn ing the act .into law.\ and that TV viewers should pay qualili~. \Hlll~al;'\q~al.\tift~.~rtedi- .. longl~gs. ShethenCOf\c;lu~~4,thftt on women is an 1 important first In the movie'sdramaticconclud- careful attention to when politi- vided up and labeled as ~},th~r:: ,_!hiS.:..tl¥:Plains why the diet_indus- step in that direction. ing scene, Clint~n~·appe!l[~\tb~, cians \b\ur the \ine between being feminineormasculine,\she try makes $33 billion a Y~,l~Ir., .•.. , . T~~ apqi!f!J,Cf, was especially d<?o.r.pt;U~~p'l{~) 9-)Jipp,!J1~el?:~~~W~ .;·;~p,l?Jl9Jflations and politica'l sai:d. \The f~Jni:nin;fj guaj.rti~s,.~ , '(eJ,,another obs~s~ion oftlJe - J:rnpresie<r by\ J<ilboume. \She forward ... and' kneels in fro-nt of · sfieedt\ · such as sensitivity, ~mpathy, me~ia, Kilbourne claimed, is that was really compelling, and just intuition ... are subseq.uently de- offemaleyouth. Shepresenteda absol1.1tely phenomenal,\ said. valued. Men are rigidly socialized relevant ad of Revlon's Melanie Cori Kautz. «A lot of the things to repress these qt.Jalities .... We Griffith quipping, \Don't lie she said really struck home.\ Her end up being only half of what about your age, defy it!,\ and also slide presentation was a particu- we might be.\ She pointed out aWhiteDiamondsadofanob'vi- larfavoiite. \ltwasveryinfonna- that although advertising is not ously retouched Elizabeth Tayl<lr. tive,\ said Arlette Balram. \The the sole reason for this imbalance, The message here, Kilbourne way she presented it kept our at- it is certainly the most \pervasive said, is that elderly women aren()t tention. \Many student~ were also and persuasive\ one. attractive. She continued to cite pleased with Kilbourne's general After this introduction, the rest that $10 billion is spent each year demeanor. \She was very good-- of Kilbourne's presentation was on products designed to reversce informative, witty,sarcastic only devoted to a slid.e show. The the effects of aging. at the right times,\ commented slides, depicting various adver- A particularly shocking ele- Sneha Patel. One point on which tisements from print med\ia had ment ofKilbourne 's presentatio11 several people agreed was the fact a forceful impact on the audience. was the focus on the sexualization that Kilbourne impressed not only Beginning with a cosmetics ad of small girls. Showing ads of the women in the audience, but featt.Jring a physically perfect grown females dressed in girlish the men as well. \She presented model, Kilbourne stated that ads attire, Kilbourne said that \tile it in such a· way that itdidn 't sepa- \surround us with the ideal offe- message sent out is that y(}u rate men from women. It kept . male beauty,\ which encourages shouldn't grow up or mature. This them together,\ said Jen Roberts. · women to spend time, energy, [means that] the child becomes a j Overall, listeners found the dis- and money trying to achieve this sex: object, which accounts for the cussion t9 be an en! ightening one. ideal. Pointing out that computer large increase in child pornogra- \It was a great way to show the retouching is almost always used phy.\ Stating that one in five ~irls public what advertising does to toperfectthemodelsofsuchads, are sexually abused in.t9d~y's society,\saidJenCapalbo. Kilbourne conclu~e~ that female . society, Kilbourne suggested that Dr. Kilbourne's appearance at beauty as perceived in the media media images \create a climate in Union was co-sponsored by a is \based on absolute flawless- which it is acceptfl,ble to lool\ at numberofgroups--PeerFacilita- ness. It cannot be achieved, and children in this way.\ tors, The Women's Commission, yet it's the only image vve ever The fact that the m.eod ia Mountebanks, the Psychology see.\ She also cited that «more trivializ;es sex was made clearby department, Chets, Theta Delta than one million dollars is\spent ads which depicted women in Chi,IFC,theHistory department, every hour on cosmetics, [which particularly erotic poses. \1here the SocietyofWomen Engineers, proves that] the message being is a national psychosis about !lex, the C.lassics department, and sent out is that [women] are ugly where we're surrounded by .it\ Amnesty International. Autumn in their natural state.\ But what is especially important Cohen, co-director of the Presenting ads which featured to note, Kilbourne said, was ti1at Womyn' s Union, said of only select~d portions of sexual images in the media '~re- Kilbourne, \When choosing a women's bodies, Kilbourne ally ·don't have anything to do speaker, we wanted someone showed that the media chooses to with sex. They're [rather] about whosematerial would be entirely dismember and damage female eroticism and immediate grati fi- relevant; and I think thatthe large self-esteem. Acknowledging that cation.\ turnout [for the event] proves that men are often portrayed likewise This occurs, Kilbourne contin- she's someone everybody can in the tT\edia, Kilbourne pointed ued, to such an extent that the eonnect to.\ UNION LAUND·RY. 561 NOITST ~ SCHENECTADY NY 12308 (ACIIOSS FROII U\IOII COUEGEJ OPeN DAILY SAM TO 10:30PM FREE DRYING tUESDAYS & THURSDAYS 8AMT03PM 1 PER WA ~H~~.;.=-:..:~- 7 WASHE FOR $5, 28 WASHES FOR $20. MAL:

. .. I ntervie~ w.ith President Hull continued fro~n page 1 Leone: Ifthe proposed rink (on North Jay Street) was to include Union, and i11 ten years it turned into both an economic and ath- letic disaster, would there be an escape clause if the college were to agree to enter intothis venture? Hull: You are much further down the road in terms of any such discussion. What has hap- pened at the point, to go over the facts, is that the Youth Hockey people desperately wanted a new facility, because they had been forced out of city center down- town. There was talk of a new facil- ity in downtown Schenectady at one of two locations. The one that makes the most sense because of the space situation is at the Ramada Inn site, which is really Jess than three blocks from the campus. The reason that I sug- gested, and it was I, that we ex- amine the possibilities of doing something in conjunction with Youth Hockey was twofold: first, because we would have to put sig- nificant resources into a facility that has already been named, Achilles, and second, because Youth Hockey presently contrib- utes$125,000 in revenue towards our rink. That is significant. Us- ing simple math, that is roughly $60 per student.. I am interested in making this place work, both financially and so that it works to the benefit of the students.- So from my point of view, the possibility oflosing therevent~eofYouth Hockey, the fact that we have to put signifi- cant resources into an existing fa- cility, and the fact that for the past seven years I have l1eard from stu- dents, and I have strongly felt, that we need to have better stu- dent social space, led me to con- clude that we had to examine the possibility. Leone: If a decision is made to move the Union Hockey team to an off-campus rink, it is likely to have a negative effect upon the team's ability to recruit. thus hurt- ing its ability to compete at a Di- vision I level. Can you comment on this issue? Hull: Well, you have made some assumptions. I wouldn'tbe ready to concede to say those as- smnptions are correct. For in- stance, I do know that having been an undergraduate at Dartmouth, that students at Dartmouth would have to walk significantly further to go to the rink at Dartmouth than students would have to walk to the pro- posed site of a rink here. Sec- ondly, students atHarvard would have to walk significantly further. Thirdly, students at Yale would have to walk even further. So three of the eleven teams with whom we compete have to go much further. Leone: Do the negative senti- ments of the student bady factor in your decision to move the rink off campus? Hull: Student opinion is a ma- jor consideration in any decision. The reason that I chose, before I had all the facts, to raise this with the men's and women's hockey programs, as well as the Student Forum was that I wanted to have student input as a major consid- eration in this decision. Leone: What is your response to signs at this past weekend's hockey gaine? Some ofthe signs stated, \If you build it, we will not ' come,\ and, \We do not need a ne~ rink. We need a new presi- dent.\ Do you feel that you have taken the brunt of the anger dis- played toward this matter? Huff: Well, I think that it is clear that I have, and I think it is appropriate. Students have to di- rect their anger at someone, and that is part of my responsibility. Do I think it is justified? I don't think it is justified in a sense that a) no decision has been made, and b) I would think that at an under- graduate institution as good as Union, students would not be fearful of examining different options. Leone: lf it would be fair to say that your presidency can best be described as \academics first,\ then is this opinion towards aca- demics at the expense of the ath- l.etic teams? Hull: No, we are an institution that has always had academics . first, but also one that believe that there are many lessons to be learned. As someone who has played sports himself, I know that the les~ons that are learned on the courts, the rink, and the playing fields are very important lessons. Not all lessons are learned in the classroon'l. So from mY perspective, athlet- ics have a very .important role on :the Union College stage. . Important 11ews for pc:ople with SINUS .. PROBLEMS Do you h.ave the fo!lo·vving? . . \' ;acial pain in the sinus area * Nasal Congestion * Sinus pain or pressure * Discolored nasal aischarqe .. IF YOU AR£ 18 OR OlDER' AND CURREHRY EXPERIENCING ANY OF THESE SYMPTOMS YOU MAY QUALIFY FOR . . PARDCIPADOH IN A SINUS .ftESfARCH STUDY. Qualified participants receive the following: \ Dr. visit ond $fudy m,dication at no charge \ Monetary compensation for time and participation For more inform.ation call 452-2510 .or 1·800-363-3464 A.I. .. LERGY & ASTHMA CE~TER OF ALBANY MED 215 Washington Ave. Ext. '· IJA Albany. NY 12205 VI Albany MedjcaJ CoUege Division of AHergy INTO 'MOJO PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGSI lchenactady 1041 State StPaat 882·6778 tt A A p h e u tl p d c } r (

Campus News _ . · - \ 'illlp.d!Iom:orb-ims.ts • J·anuary 30, 1997 • Page 5 Academic Opportunity Program Na,mes New Director Student Forum Minutes -1/23197 · - . ' ' ' 5:50-Called to order- Pellish, Proctor, Malaspina,& Drossman absent 5:55- Officer Reports by Anjali Blllasinghain. Staff Writer students, Alexander realized that partments to m,.tl1;ur~ collaborative Brantigan- Reads letter to club presidents about hanging posters (sent he was looking for a different working relationships. In this out 1/24) environment. \We didn't really way, wecanempowerstudentsto Ahessi- Black History Month members request $7,000; Pipers re- have the chance to interact with seek out new resources and op- _ fused $5,000, but can get loan from another outlet- Failure to repay There's a new face at Union the students there. And as ate- portunities .. \ comes out of Forum holding account- Pipers would have to repay this winter term;, th!=lt -of Thomas suit, I felt deprived. I was used to Within the college, Alexander Fort1m over 3 years; Ski Club refused further money; Motion to alia- Alexander. As the newdirectmof having students be part of the col- hopes to create links, through the cate$1 ,800 for Winter Affair (Seconded, Unanimous) AOP, the Academic Opportunity legec~mmunity. Sothisposition, , Career Development Center, with Cohen~ Bus & DJ for Winter Affair in works; \Mock Rock\ 2/1 Program, Alexanderplans to. put when it becaine available, seerned · outside employers, corporations, needs acts his years of and agencies. Mankad- Multicultural Affairs position nowpennanent; Asks forum expertise to \In general, it's· to attend UBGlad meeting use in fur- important for us Fox- IFC Elections next week; Church-burning dinner meeting 1129 thering the - to establish at 7 (RCC 409) program's [such] links so Zandman-Tripto Montreal Approved development that students are Liberman - SAC reviewing 3 houses; Dealing with study space & AOP, ac- comfortable futureofrush cording to with [taking ad- 6:09- New Business: Alexander, vantage of] the Bill Moody- (Hockey Defenseman) says team is looki.ng at new rink <'identifies opportunities . as a negative- Started petition (hopes for 75% participation)- Rink students with presented.\ He compromises secur.ity of program with lease - Ice rights gone (no the potential also hopes to en- practice-schedule control)- Would hurt recruiting- Attendance would to accom- courage students drop; Pathak asks about alumni help- Moody says team discussed plish what to get involved issue at Harvard with alumni; Fox says usually substance to rumors- they want, in school activi- Petition should be presented to Trustees Feb. 7-8- Moody says entire but who may ties. \I already team wants to attend Trustees meeting; Moody says the $2.5 mil. for have experi- see students par- repairs is not only for air compressor- By fixing compressor, Achil- enced things ticipating ·in les must upgrape to meet ALL codes (new floors, etc.)- Compressor in their various college costs ac,tually $400K -Pathak says Hull lett Forum under different ~ .. tht activities, which ;impressi~n '&asks abot~t rink ~ndorseme~ts- Moody says they would make it diffi- I think is a posi-,. help_a J.ittle, but Hull says Union in same light as Harv-ard and Harvard cult to gradu,.. ti ve sign. I'm doesri'td.6 it; Ahessi states professors !-lave concerns too; Morris & ate from col- New AOJ!l}ifectaB.i',fiflh;;!Ali!x)l.itder(ph:_ota:by!MariJ!fluinle/TC) looking to learn Fox niotion: Send letter to Trustees saying President is considering leg.e. This more about what • btlilding ofT-campus rink and propose they cont~ct Hull~ Also in- program provides additional ser- perfect.\ other student organizations on elude Gazette & Concordy articles (Seconded); Winn states nothing vices to these students.\ Such ser- As he has only been at.Union ,campus~o,.and to encourage par- wrong with wanting to expand campus, but we do not know info- vices,hecontinuedt~-·~ay,:inclttde - fora few\.veeks, Alexand~r:be- '-:'\·-ticipati-drrin such groups. I also Pressure Hull- Forum says they have; Fox not attacking Hull but meetings and wotkshops. tutor- lieves it's earLy in the:game.to be f wo.oldi.tike to continue to I ink stu- questions way he does some things; Zandman asks what if students ing, counseling,a:)idadvise1p-ent . think!ng .abou~-!tliajor 9h~nges in d~nts with ;1lum.ni, and give them don't like plan after seeing everything, will Hull listen; Liberman asks Working in this. area is not a AOP. <'Orte thing that's clear is ·the opportunity to interact with wryo will write letter- Morris says it will be unbiased; Abessi says new experience; f'or Ah~xan_d~r. · .. thatthis_prograt.n ha~a farrdJy,.stp- _. stu~ents who are currently en- Pellish should <;on!act Trustees before meeting; Cunanan says letter 'Tve been work1rlg'm M admin: 'l preach fb 5-erliee:~u1d: student}>ar. ~ ~·rolletl'This will give the students should include students want a say ~MoHon 'passes 13-2 · · istrative capaci~r:·~or thirte<m . ticip!l_)'i~n,J wi~h t() contim,I~th::tt, _ a clearer ideas of what their op- 6;53- (unanan states Mortis going to DC in spring terril- Procedure years, to help stttdtmts ·access -c which- Will take a lot ofwork and · tions are.\ · was to remove member and not allow to run - Malaspina was not higher education.\Having served commitment. Overall, Alexander believes removed fast year- Election necessary, but suggests Morris should as director of the Educational We're currently in the process,, that programs like AOP fulfill an remain in meantime; Fox says committees have same problem- Con- Development Program at SUNY of hiring an associate director/ significant role in schools today. stitution should be amended; Morris states Terms Ab~oad Office en- Fredonia, and also as director of counselor, and we're also select- \When students have back- courages 2 terms abroad, so this will become a larger problem; a similar-programatRegents Col- ing tutdr$l;'lhd .St;iffto work with grounds that are different from Cunanan thinks member should remain with newly elected member lege, he finds that '•this is ideal students. It's- important, in this those that predominate in this cui- as his/her understudy- Forum agrees for me, in terms ofmakingadif- whole process, to seek individu- ture, it can often be intimidating. 7:02- Cunanan says Tri-Delt needs $50 for alcohol-awareness pro- ference and helping students als with a firm understanding of It can put people off from feeling gram; Fox Motion: Give $200 to Tri-Delt from Forum (Seconded)~ achieve their goals.'~ having a supportive environment. like they belong ... AOP helps to · Zandman & Liberman wonder why jump in amount- Cunanan says While at Regents, a state uni- It's equal1y important that we break the barriers that are out. they asked for what Forum could give; LeDuc says speaker costs versity serving many commuting work with other ooH~ges and de- there.\ $1 ,500; Ahessi says $100 is better as Forum has $0 and this requires another transfer from holding account; Drown & Zandman says sophomore class will give $50 to Tri-Delt; Abessi requests amend- ment to $1 00 unless another outlet cannot be found - Fox says he is sick of bureaucracy - Grudgingly accepts amendment - Amended motion passes unanimously Opposition to Rink Proposal Voiced at Home Game by Jody Mousseau Stllf/Writer by a group of students requesting that President Hull investigate other options before considering an off-campus ice rink was signed by approximately 400 spectators at the Union-RPl game. Similarly, Harold Krupa, Class of 1969, stated, \My views on the new rink are that it should remain here on campus. It's very impor- tant to keep it on campus to keep the kids here and bring the com- 7:13- Zandman states Pipers will not use all $5,000 ofloan- Need to cut CD & money will be returned, putting name on the line 7: t 5- Reflections: Morris- Money belongs to same \person the students, & if money is spent to benefit students, it is well spent Winn- Confused as to what$200 means when Forum gives the money (where it comes from, what clubs must sacrifice, etc.) 7:21 - Motion to adjourn by Pathak Union fans, RPI fans, and members of the Union College community who attend~d the Union-RPI gameatAchilles Rink on Saturday, January 25 could not help but notice an array of signs and chants indicating opposition to Union's involvetnent in ail off- campus facility. Banners stating \Save our rink,'~ «If you build it we won't come,\ and \We need a new president, not a new rink,\ were only a few examplesofthis opposition. In addition, several alumni present at the game voiced their opposition to Union's involve- ment in the potel)tial North Jay Street facility. munity into the college. We don't '-----------------~-------~ Many students have indicated their opposition to Union College's involvement in the de ... velopment •of the potential off- campus facility. However, the Union- RPI gatne evinced a mass of opposition, ranging from com- plaints oflocal fans to complaints of members of tile Union College community. A petition initiated Diane Vandenberg, 1980, who is a season ticket holder, com- mented, .. I think it's a terrible idea. It's going to pull all of the students off campus, if they'll go. I don't thirrk they will go. You've got a lot more down, here besides men's ice hockey · andwomen'sicehockey. Yoil\-ve gof intramural hockey, broomball, and you've got curl- ingdownstairs. What's going to happen to .all those people? I would not be a season ticket holder dowtl there [at the new site]. Absolutely not.\ need to go off campus. I believe Achilles Rink should be reno- vated. There's no need fora new facility. Whatever it takes, it should be done to make this place [Achilles Rink] a viable rink.\ The Schenectady Youth Hockey League and the devel- oper, who has not yet been named, have mentioned that they will pursue plans for a facility on North Jay Street with or without Union College, as indicated in the Daily Gazette last week. How· ever, President Hull has indicated that Union will not be rushed into any decisions regard:fng the po- tential off-campus facility, re- gardless of Youth H<lckey's an- nouncement that the rink will be built. \I have made absolutely no decisions. We are, in my mind, probably months away from be- ing able to make an intelligent decision,\ commented Hull on Tuesday, January 28. In response to the opposition voiced by rnembers of the Union community and dedicated fans, President Hull said, \People can oppose me, people can attack me, people can say something makes sense and support me, hut I don't want opposition or support unless it's based on fact. People are jumping to conclusions. People do not have any infonnation, and I don't have information. I'm nowhere near making a decision, because I don't have the infonna- tion on which to make a deci- sion.\ President H\111 reinforced pre- vious interviews by stating that he is searching many options, in- cluding the repair of Achilles Rink and Union College's in- volvement in the construction of an off-campus facility. However, no decisions, according to Hull, have been made, nor have any negotiations been discussed At the time -of press, the Crosstalk regardingcarripus opin- ion on the future of Achilles Rink had not been held. The future of Achilles Rink, according to Hull, will not be determined in the im- mediate future.

. . - - . EDITORIAL STAND UP· FOR YOURSELVES! We have noticed an interesting phenomenon here at Union. We like to call it the \I have my ideals, but I need a recommendation too\ factor. Allow us to expand on this vague introduction: ~fortunately, for both the students and the school, members ofthe student body often fail to challenge or question, especially in public forums, their professors and members o the administratkm. Opini~ns It is exactly this type of timid behavior that allows our community's problems and shortcomings to develop and fester. While fears of reprisal are often valid and in fact understandable, it is precisely the lack of action against wrongdoing that perpetuates the ability ofthe culprits o fwrongdoing to continue exerting pressure and control over students and other concerned members ofthe community. This editorial is not meant to single out specific members of the administration or any particular student. We have dealt extensively with many ofthe Deans and administrators, and we feel confident that everyone who makes their home on the third floor of the College Center is honest and above exerting pressure in unfair ways. Wt ineu€1>\ 51Jfft6 6~6'5\KS OFF CAttlPUS • •• In fact, we would like to think that most members ofthe faculty and staff here at a tine school like Union would be above any . sort of grudge-holding or revenge-taking. Sadly though, in our years here, we have eacountered. a few people who do not seem to be above this sort of behavior. Is Free Speech Dyin.g At Union? In terms of positive news, many students have stood up to the administration and faculty at Union when it was appropriate to do so. We applaud the students who have the courage and fortitude to stand up tor what they believe is correct. So, the n~_:<t time you feel that something being done around you is wrong or inappropriate, your first thought should not be whether your input to a collegiate authority figure could caus you to loose a recommendation or, worse still, a job. You should instead question whether or not you would really want either a · ob that might ask you to violate your values or a recommendation from someone who you do i1ot believe could take your valid criticism. What is also important to note here is that ifwe as a community and, on a larger scale. as a nation cannot stand up tor what we believe. in when we are young, where will we stand when we become old and set in our ways? X!rqe alnn.cnrniensis The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Adrian MacLean, Anthony C. LaVecchia, ED/TORS-.JN-CHIEF .. David Pinkowitz Diana. Sedita m:RClJl'JVH HlJJTORS Conor McKentie · MANAGING HNTOR Stephanie Slobotkin NEWS HJITOR Aileen Quigley A.\:WSTANT NEWS H!Jl10R Larry Paska ARn·;& ENTERTAINMENT EDiTOR Laurie Kirschner PHOTO EDITOR Suzanne Dougherty NAT!ONJAL NHW.\' h\J)J1'0R: Chris Leone !AYOl ITHDI7VR Tatiana Cogevina Andy Fradl<in . C(JMPU1Jm. MANA~iJ~J{ Jared Richman HIJI1VRJA/, ( 'ARTOONIST . ·s~ott Scullion . FACULTY ADVISOR ·· Raquel Millman Peter Sorensen Fh\ATl !RES 1\JJ/1'0/?k '' Jonathan Gasthalter Amy DiBattista Chris Leone Je11nifer Pelose SPORT'S ED17Vl?,\' cm>y 1hmrws p HOtr. JCi RAPHJ£R.)':' Rick Lederer;' Michelle· Briel<; ·Maria · duinle, Robert Cohen Contributing Writer Freed om of speech has been a tra- dition in this country since its founding. Granted, it took more than a few decades to define who had a right to say what when. I mean, you ~an 't go into a crowded theater and yell fire just because you want to, but you do have a right to say what you think. For the most part, freedom of speech and expression has been tolerated in this country. Why is Union any different from the rest ofthe country? It seems to me that any time someone raises a voice, they are quickly and quietly smothered by the powers that be. I find this type of behavior unac- ceptable, and it is an injustice we cannot live with. This past Saturday was a very exciting hockey game, one which will probably be remembered tor reasons other then the outstand- ing performance of the hockey team. The first thing I noticed when I entered the rink was the \Save Achilles\ signs ·that were plaster~d on the Coke machines. I thought to myself that it was a good sign that people were speak- . ing up:a.bout how tl}ey feh ::}bout the plans tor a new hockey rink. It made me feel thatpt;QP,le,took .,tu-heart.what,j .wrote abQ~lt last ·:week: Weld .maybe they .did :~nd ·-maybe they didmlt, wlio.,oares,the fact that. there ;were, sig!ils wa.s: re- freshing. Another creative sign · wasplacedover.thee11tranceway: ''Hull No, Campus Hockey Yes.\ Simple ... Blunt. To the point. I Laurel Ruma .. - . . . . . , ..• , ,. STAFF· Josh Adams, Anj_ali Balasingham, Kelen narr; 'J'amie. Chanaler; K:tr:i ChJiistia'if, ·si'Jana Dan~eiQ,,Whitn~y<P.~vis, ~t:andon . Declet, Gabriella Dory, Jeff Dru~ba, Jason Everett, Peter Farnu~, · · , Erinn Gregg, Nalini Gupta, Car~iifie1Ittp~~:r. lttika Mnb.chii;.sli'~vani. · ' · Meduri, Jody Mousseau, Michelle Neier, Susan Perry, Frank Rossi, Matt Sandler, Akin Sawyyer, Aaron Sicotte, Michelle 'rham, Rawson Thurber, Michelle Vanderloon even saw sorneone holding a sign the .student forum a few weeks saying \We love (it was really a back. People who had power heart) Our Rink.~' This was ames- found the signs hung in the Col- sage from the women's hockey legeCenterinpoortaste,.so it was team. The protest signs to the new decided to freeze their funds. I rink was more than I expected mean what gives the Student Fa- from the so-called apathetic stu- rum or any Administrator the dent body. right to tell someone what is and There wt!re two signs in par- what is not acceptable forms of ticular which got ripped down by expression around this campus. security 2m imttes after they were Students are this campus, not a put up. Sign one, whicli was re- few select people. It just makes turned to the people who made it thepeoplewith power look worse after the first period and reh ung when tl1ey .abuse it because of in- said, \If You Build It, We Won't dividual concerns Come.\ Sign two however, was · It seetns to me that this type of not returned because it was a bit behavior is occurring more and more controversial~ \We Need A more o:fte11 around campus. Soon New President, Not A New no one wi11speak outagainstthe Rink.\ I have no idea why sign powerstltat be because they will one was ripped down, but we can afraid to do so. The sign at the all clearly see why sign two was hockey rink this past weekend is ripped down. The question I have a perfect example of the resis- is why was it ripped down. It sim- tance that is met when taking on ply stated the viewpoint of some the school. I am not saying that concerned students. It was not I i- Union sftou:ld be a democracy, belous or vicious, and I do not because we all know it is not, but believe it was in bad taste, it was I highly question the dictatorship just the opinion of some students, type actions taken. When you no matter how unflattering. I take away someone' s right to guess I would have to ask secu- express tl1emsel ves, you are tak- rity why it was ripped down to get ing something that is so precious, the truth, but I need not wnste the atid not ope person on this cam- clme and e1;ergy to do so. The sigt~ ' pus has the_r!ght to do lhat. was ripped down b~caHse sm~e.- -~ - . Nex.ttitn!;! you see someone ex- one that has.power on this:cam~ pres~itfg tli~mselves, saying pus considered the sign to be in sometliillg that might tick off a ~a:d;,ta~te~)ci\~.I~~t,~i in eJ .ld.oke4,, . fe;w ·admi -q~trators, .. ;OT. possibly having bad taste was not agaii1st ·offend in~ ~omlstude1its, do not the law. Furthetim~re,e\.JI;~~ itJ~j,. ~i shp~a~,H1e,lp, do not shLtt them up, vidual who put the sign·s up, had· enibrace'them, because they are his freedom of expres%ion hn- . ...th.e cines who can and will make peded. a difference. Do not let freedom This sort of goes ~aq~ _tq }he _. of sp·eecll and expression become whole UBGLAD issue that faced ·-··a passing phase - pe th wl at I c tic th E: ·W I 1 th Si a< fc w gj s. ti A Sl VI a· l F tl v y \ B 1\ v 2 s r t c:: I ( t

EDITORIAL STAND UP FOR YOURSELVES! We have noticed an interesting phenomenon here at Union. We like to call it the \I have my ideals, but I need a recommendation too\ factor. Allow us to expand on this vague introduction: unfortunately, for both the students and the school, members of the student body often fail to challenge or question, especially in public forums, their professors and members of the administration. It is exactly this type of timid behavior that allows our community's problems and shortcomings to develop and fester. While fears ofreprisal are often valid and in fact understandable, it is precisely the lack of action against wrongdoing that perpetuates the ability of the culprits of wrongdoing to continue exerting pressure and control over students and other concemed members of the community. This editorial is not meant to single out specific members of the administration or any particular student. We have dealt extensively with many ofthe Deans and administrators, and we feel confident that everyone who makes their home on the third floor ofthe College Center is honest and above exerting pressure in unfair ways. In fact, we would like to think that most mcmhcrs ofthc faculty and staffherc at a fine school like Union would he above any sort of grudge-holding or revenge-taking. Sadly though. in our years here, we have encountered a few people who do not seem to he ahove this sort of behavior. In terms of positive news, many students have stood up to the administration and faculty at Unim1 when it was appropriate to do so. We applaud the students who have the courage and fortitude to stand up f(>r what they bel icve is correct. So, the ne:xt time you tee! that something being done around you is wrong or inappropriate, yom first thought should not he whether your input to a collegiate authority figure could cause you to loose a recommendation or. worse stilL ajoh. You should instead (jUcstion whether or not you would really want either a job that might ask you to violate your values or a recommendation from someone who you do not believe could take your valid criticism. What is also important to note here is that ifwe as a community and, on a larger scale. as a nation cannot stand up l(>r what vvc believe in when we arc young. wl1crc will we stand when we become old and set in our ways? The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Adrhm \1acLean, Anthony C. La\'ecchia, EDITYJR.\'-1.\'-C 'lfiEF David Pinkowitz Diana Sedita /:X/:( ·r 7!/rJ: FJ>JJ( JN,\· Conor 'Icl\enzie .\!A S.·lC ;[,\'( i FI>J'l( JJ? Stephanie Slobotkin .\'1-'WS Ff mr JR Aileen Quigley ASSJSTANJ. ,\'Ui'S I:'JJ/J( JU Larry Paska AR'IS & !:Nl1:RTA!NA!Fl\T I·.'J>F/1 JR Laurie Kirschner l'f{(}J( J F/J!JOR .Jonath:m Gasthalter Chris Leone .\'/'( JN J:\' /:/ J/1( JRS Suzanne Dougherty x..uJo.VJAJ. ,vuvs 1-:nrmu Chl\is Leone r.nor :r u mou Tatiana Cogevina Andy Ft·adkin < 'OA/J'f .'J'l:R !1/..IN.-U iFR .Jared Richman 1:1 >JJ( >RIA!. I 'ARJ( J( JX!ST Scott Scullion 1-ACf lf.TY A/W!SON Raquell\1illman Peter Sorensen FFArt 1/?F,'; U>JHJRS Amy DiBattista .Jennifer Pelose ( '()f' r FJ)/JOJ?S f'lfOJOiiRAI'IfFJI.'I' Rick Lederer, l\lichelle Brick, Maria Guinle, Laurel Ruma .\'IA/·1- .Josh Adams, An.jali Balasingham, 1\clen Barr, .Jamie Chandler, Kara Christian, Shana Dangelo,. Whitney D;tvis, Brandon Declet, Gabriella Dory, Jeff Druzba, .Jason Everett, Peter Farnum, Erinn Gregg, Nalini Gupta, Caroline Hepner, Erika Mancini, Bhavani Meduri, .Jody Mousseau, Michelle Neier, Susan Perry, Frank Rossi, Matt Sandler, Akin Sawyyer, Aaron Sicotte, Michelle Tham, Rawson Thurber, Michelle Vanderloon Opinions ~~l8, ~m., ~y WE: i1\DUEp\ 50M6 Gf?.G5KS OFF Clift'\ PUS, •• Is Free Speech Dying At Union? Robert Cohen Contributing Writer Freedom of speech has been n tra- dition in this country since its founding Granted, it took more than a few decades to define who had a right to say what when. I mean. you can't go into a crowded theater and yell fire just because you want to, but you do have a right to say what you tbink. For the most pare freedom of speech and expression has been tolerated in this country Why is Union any different from the rest ofthe country' 1 It seems to me that any time someone raises a voice. they are quickly and quietly smothered by the powers that be I find this type of behavior unac- ceptable. and it is an injustice vvc cannot live Vvith. This past Saturday was a very exciting hockey game. one vvhich will probably be remembered for reasons other then the outstand- ing performance of the lmckcy team. The first thing I noticed when I entered the rink \Mls the \Save Achilles'\ signs that were plastered on the Coke machines I thought to myself that it was a good sign that people were speak- ing up about how they felt obout the plans t<x a nc\v hockey rink It made me feel that people took to heart what I wrote ab<:mt last week Well maybe they did and maybe they didn't who cares. the fact that there were signs was re- fresh in g. Another creative sign was placed over the entranceway· \Hull No.Campus Hockey Yes\ Simple Blunt To the point I even saw someone holding a s1gn saying \We love (it was really a heart)Our Rink \This was ames- sage from the women's hockey team The protest signs to the new rink was more than I expected from the so-called apathetic stu- dent body There \\t.:ie two signs in par- ticular which got ripped down by security 2m in utes atler they were put up. Sign one, whici1 was re- turned to the people who made it after the first period and rehung said. \If You Build It, We Won't Come\ Sign two however. was not returned because it was a hit more controversiaL \We Need A New President. Not A New Rink\ I have no idea \vhy sign one was ripped down. but we can all clearly see why s1gn two was ripped dovm The question I have is lrhy was it ripped down It sim- ply stated the viewpoint of some concemed students It vvas not 1 i- hclous or vicious. and [ do not believe it was in bad taste, it was just the opinion of some students, no matter hov\ untlattcrmg I guess I \\'ould have to ask secu- rity \Yhv it was ripped down to get the truth. hut I need not \Vaste the time and energy to do so The sign was ripped down hecuuse some- one that has power on this cam- pus considered the sign to he in bad taste. The last time I looked. having had taste \\as not against the law Furthermore. the indi- vidual \\ho put the signs up. had his freedom of expression nn- peded This sort of goes back to the whole URGLAD issue that faced the student forum a few weeks back. People who had power found the signs hung in the Col- lege Center in poor taste, so it was decided to freeze their funds I mean what gives the Student Fo- rum or any Administrator the right to tell someone what is and what is not acceptable forms of expression around this campus Students are this campus, not a few select people. It just makes the people with power look worse when they abuse it because of in- dividual concerns It seems to me that this type of behavior is occurnng more and more often around campus. Soon no one will speak out against the powers that be because they will afraid to do so The sign at the hockey rink this past weekend is a perfect example of the resis- tance that is met when taking on the schooL I am not saying that Union should be a democracy, because we alI know it is not, but I highly question the dictatorship type actions taken When vou take lW.:ay someone's nght to express themselves. you arc tak- ing something that is so precious. and not one person on this cam- pus has the right to do that Next time you sec someone ex- pressing themselves. saying something that might tick off a few administmtors. or possibly offending some students. do not shun them. do not shut them up. embrace them. because they are the ones who can and will make a difference Do not let freedom of speech and expression become a passmg phase - ] p t1 \i a t t I \ t

Page. 7 ··January 30, 1997 · ffi1p.' iJlon,t1rbirusis · . . . . OP/ED Opinion Memories of The Way We Were I Screwed Up! Jared Richman Staff Cartoonist l'm not sure if I am the only person at Union who has noticed the great rnany subtle changes which have recently cometo light at Union College. Situation #I: I called up the student radio sta- tion today and the DJ answered the phone as follows: ''W ruck!\ Excuse me? Last time l checked · we were calling it R.u.c.· When I voiced my concern I discovered the D:J was a freshman. Hmmm ... Situation #2: Dinnertime-much activity arotmd library plaza. The usual chatter was heard-West food sucks ... too . much work. .. damn this weather ... lets' go eat at the \Rat\? HELLO? Say that again? The Rat? Last time 1 checked it was the 'Skellar. Again, further investigation re- sulted in the fact that yes, that word was uttered by a frosh. Situ- ation #3: Two students, suitably Union attired in Abercrombie and Fitch outerwear (at .least some things never change) begin a con- versation outside of Fox \Hey you go in' to class?\ Reply, \yeah but I've got to go the Reamer first.\ GOOD GOD, MAN!! Reamer? And yes--they were members of the class of 2000. Now the purpose of these ob- servations is not to poke fun or to ridicule the freshman class. On the contrary, I use the previous examples to illustrate a larger problem which afflicts Union College. First, however, I need to address each ofthose situations individually. O.K. WRUC, one ofthe brightshiningjewels in the Union list of firsts. As far as I know, it has always been R-U- C-not the \ruck\ which has somehow invaded the mind of some seemingly lost freshmen. Doesn't ·~ruck\ just sound cool enough to be the name of a much disrespected pledge? Good Lord, people. Point two-Union Col- lege has enjoyed. the friendly at- mosphere its beloved Rathskellar sinceDecetnber2, 1949. Finally, just when it has reintroduced its stock ofbeer (though not as di- verse as the selection once was) someone would degrade its .lovely name by identifying it with a furry rodent. Several other universities and Colleges have similar eating establishments, including some of the Ivies. Nowmost ofthesecol- leges call their RathskeHar the .. Rat,'' in fact, Siena college-. whose Friar roaming halls and pathetic fifty some-odd years of age couldnotpossible be akin to our own nondenominational bi~ centennial glory-calls their es- tabhshment the \Rat.\ Do you really want Union to destroy a proud tradition of individuality that has held fast for nearly fifty years? I shudder to think efthe consequences. Point 3: As we members ofthe Junior and Senior classes begin to fade out, l pray that this.last vestige ofrespectable nomenclature may somehow be kept alive. I'm sure we are all grateful for the magnanimous gift of Mr. Rean1er in honor of his . parents{ a lovely portrait ofthem adorns the wall outside of Upperclass Dining Hall-itself once the victim of a hideous . ' though thankfully short-lived, name change-remember Win- dows Dining Hall?). However, I cannot contain the shock and slight en1barrassment which fol- lowed the realization that Presi- dent Hull changed· the practical (and dare I say melodious?}Col- lege Center, to the REAMER Campus Center. Surely, many different activities occur in the College Center, but its current name implies a very odd one, to be sure. While these may seem to be rather insignificant concerns, there is a bigger issue at stake here. Atthe risk of sounding like fiddh::r on the roof: Tradition. Obviously, for an institution like a university to endure for many years, change is not only neces- sary, but often beneficiaL How- ever, in the interest ofschool spirit Looking for a Good Job but Lack EXPERIENCE .Need wor.ds Like These on Your Resume? ·*Leadership *Facilitate *Liaison *Me·diation If so, come find out about a position as and R.A. Information Sessions .. Febuary 3rd and 4th; 4:00PM, Old Chapel , loyalty, respect for the past, and The reason why I am writing gested that he think twice about just plain fun, a certain amount of .·• this article is not because l want running the article. tradition is necessary. Union re- · to, but instead, because I have Now, for the real mental pro- cently celebrated its Bicentennial' by to. I know, you have read cess of a twenty-year old Union renaming two very important build- enough articles by me over the student: Josh is a freshman. He ings on the basis of Money-lots last five issues to last you a life- is a charismatic guy and an asset \o money. Any of you see the time. You see, though, I hadto to WRUC Sports. However, if Olympics? Official drink of the engage myself in a tonn ofcen- that article ran, r was C()ncetned 1996 Olympiad .. :Official website· sorship which I should not have that pressure would be put on ine 'of the 1996 Olympiad ... Oid you see consented to, but tor a stupid to fire Josh, or else lose coopeta- the Official condom, toe? My reason, I felt I had to. tion from the campus sports in- point? When something simple and Enough with the dribble, here formation sources WRUC relies pure becomes teo commercial it be- is the story. My friend, Josh on. lfJosh 's article was unfactual comes cheap and common. Just Adams, wrote a story about the and ticked off the wrong person, because it ain't no brand name don't administration and our hockey I should have had the balls to mean it weren't bought and sold for coach. It had the who, what, stand by him and keep him on the someone's big ego. It almost fright- when, where, and all that jazz, staff. ens me how much this college has but I felt it came down too hard I am tired .... Tired of fighting changed in my tour years. True on the wrong people and lacked this new rink idea, tired of defend- , facts. · · · h d · · 1nany wonderful things have been mg my mtegnty to t e a tmms- added, like Froyo, voice mail, and Two weeks ago, I was in- tration, and tired of getting slim theemergentpopularityofcroptops formed that Coach Moore amounts of sleep this term be- and shorter skirts. But much has thought our WRUC hockey cause ofthose two activities. In- been lost, as well. No longer can broadcasts were too critical. stead of standing by my friend studentsacquirehockeyticketswith After speaking with him, we and coworker, I said that if the ease, or sit in general admission decided to set up a friendly administration put pressure on seats. No longer do students enjoy meeting with the WRUC Sports me, I would have to \follow or outdoor parties onnidweek celebra- staff and the coach. The next ders., Here is one ofthe things tions. Chefs has all but replaced night, I participated in one of do not say often, not because it IS Kelly's and Gepettos. However, I the best WRUC hockey broad- untrue, but because I am a stub may have lasted long enough to see casts at RPI. The problem. was born fool: I screwed up. Why a winning hockey team .. :(though that we discussed the new rink should I let the administration be Prexy may put an end to that). in depth. I immediately got factored into my thought process Perusing the college history, stu- feedback from the administra- and for that matter, why should dents can find mentions of class tion, compl~ining that what was their opinion matter when I'm day, class wars, and a post gradua- said on the air was inappropri- dealing with my friends? tion celebration in Jackson's Gar- ate (allegations, they said, are To .Josh Adams: I am sorry. dens where Seniors pass around a not news). I was 'invited\ to a This will never happen again. To jug of wine and the Nott bong (for meeting set up by Dean Alford the administration: why question tobacco use only). Oddly enough with our athletic d.irector, sports my integrity? Why not question thislastohesurvived, though mush information director, Coach certain (meal) upstanding mem reincarnated. Sport rivalries were of Moore, and the Dean himsel t: bers of the (plan) administration greater concern-a band, pep The meeting went fine (WRUC who have told half-truths in the rally's, bon fires, ritual pranks to refused to back down), but past? President Hull says he en- Coach Moore and DI'rcctor cotira es It t' · t RPI' s teams , shelling opposing g a erna I ve views, ye hockey goalies with oranges, were Sakala failed to attend. my sports staff was thoroughly commonplace. Ahyes,andtheleg- Thoseofyouwhoknowme interrogated for reporting end of Camp Union. Spring Fest? know that I am one-hundred checked intonnation (and oft told A mere virginal child compared to percent against the off-campus rumors) which did not meet the the Wild Alcoholic three day musi~ rink idea, and you know that I administration's standards. cal romp which once featured Blues have been spendingalotoftime Well, membersoftheadminis- Traveler (no really!) . tcying to getthe students to have tration, congratulations. You l'tn not suggesting that Union a voice on campus. This, com· rubbed off on me. Now 1 am a revert to the days of \'party only bined with the new problems of sometimes-inconsiderate,censor- \mentality but simply that they WRUC Sports with the admin- ship-prone, drained man 1 ike keep some time tested traditions in istration, has worn me out, even some of you. The problem is that theinterestofschool spiritand fun. in fourth week. there is some cost to those char- Naked Nott runs, painting the Idol, This past Tuesday, I was go- acteristics (and not just writing christening the U on the football ing to dinner (yep, it was tur- articles you were not planning to field-these are still around-but key night!), but I did not real- write). You can jeopardize even they are in danger of extinc- ize that I was the turke:y to be friendships and trust by exhibit- tion. We can have the best of both roasted. Josh told me about his ing those traits, and it only cost worlds-astrohgacademicreputa- article against Coach Moore $112,000formetolearnthatles- tion, as well as a fun collegiate at- and the powers that be, and I son. Keep up the good work, ad- mosphere. immediately asked him if I ministration! The closer I come to graduation, could read it. It lacked some Thanks, facts and was based on second- Frank Rossi· the more l wonder how this college - · hand information. so I sug- WRUC Sports D1'rector wiH look in the next generation. I !-~-~~---· _______ .___;·_~-------, pray that it will continue to be a unique Academic institution, <me which exhibits a proud history with many fun traditions of past, and perhaps some new ones. But l also fearthedirection that the current ad- ministration is taking. Expansion and pure reputation are certainly not valid motivations for the sacrifice oftradition. And until I die, it win be the skellar, WRUC, and God help me, the College Center. This will become an ongoing col- umn for .as long as 1 care to com- plain. Comments? We all have them; keep yours to your se/f---,fhis is my column. E-MAIL ADDRESSES FOR SUBMISSIONS E-Mail Us at Concordy @gar.union.edu .. All E ... mail submissions must be recieved · _by 5 PM the MtJntlay before publication, and must be less than 500 words. Please see the Opinions policy on page for mtJfe details. the opposite

.Page 7 · Jan~ary 30,. 1997 · WI?e <.U:ttt~·wr~icu~is. ·. · . · ·. ·. ·. · · . · · · ·:. .' . · ·· ··· ~·. · ., · .· . O,P/ED:· . . . ' ' - ' ' '. Opinion Memories of The Way We Were Jared Richman Staff Cartoonist I'm not sure if I am the only person at Union who has noticed the great many subtle changes which have recently come to light at Union College. Situation #I: I called up the student radio sta- tion today and the DJ answered the phone as tallows: \W ruck!\ Excuse me? Last titne I checked we were calling it R U.C. When I voiced my concem I discovered the DJ was a freshman. Hmmm ... Situation #2: Dinnertime-much activity around library plaza. The usual chatter was heard-West food sucks ... too much work .. damn this weather.. .lets' go eat at the \Raf'? HELLO? Say that again° The Rat'l Last time I checked it was the 'Skellar Again, further investigation re- sulted in the fact that yes, that word was uttered by a trash. Situ- ation #3: Two students, suitably Union attired in Abercrombie and Fitch outerwear (at least some things never change) begin a con- versation outside of Fox \Hey you gain' to class?\ Reply, \yeah but I've got to go the Reamer first.\ GOOD GOD, MAN I! Reamer'l And yes-they were members of the class of 2000. Now the purpose of these ob- servations is not to poke fun or to ridicule the freshman class. On the contrary. I use the previous examples to illustrate a larger problem which afflicts Union College. First however, I need to address each of those situations mdividually. O.K. WRUC one of the bright shining jewels in the Union list of firsts. As far as I know, it has always been R-U- C-not the \ruck\ which has somehow invaded the mind of some seemingly lost freshmen. Doesn \t \ruck'\ just sound cool enough to be the name of a much disrespected pledge? Good Lord, people Point two-Union Col- lege has enjoyed the friendly at- mosphere its beloved Rathskellar sinceDecember2, 1949. Finally, just when it has reintroduced its stock of beer (though not as di- verse as the selection once was) someone would degrade its lovely name by identifying it with a furry rodent. Several other universities and Colleges have shnilar eating establishments, including some of the Ivies. Now most ofthese col- leges call their Rathskellar the \Rat in fact, Siena college- whose Friar roaming halls and pathetic fifty some-odd years of age could not possible be akin to our own nondenominational bi- centennial glory-calls their es- tablishment the \Rat.\ Do you really want Union to destroy a proud tradition of individuality that has held fast for nearly fifty years? I shudder to think of the consequeNces. Point 3: As we members oftheJuniorandSenior classes begin to fade out, I pray that this last vestige of respectable nomenclature may somehow be kept alive. I'm sure we are all grateful for the magnanimous gift of Mr. Reamer in honor of his parents (a lovely portrait of them adorns the wall outside of Upperclass Dining Hall-itself once the victim of a hideous, though thankfully short-lived, name change-remember Win- dows Dining Hall?) However, I cannot contain the shock and slight embarrassment which fol- lowed the realization that Presi- dent If ull changed the practical (and dare I say melodious?) Col- lege Center, to the REAMER Campus Center. Surely. many different activities occur in the College Center, but its current name implies a very odd one, to be sure. While these may seem to be rather insignificant concerns. there is a bigger issue at stake here. At the risk of sounding like fiddler on the roof: Tradition Ohv1ously, for an institution like a university to endure for many years. change 1s not only neces- sary, but often beneficial. How- ever, in the interest of school spirit Looking for a Good Job but Lack EXPERIENCE Need words Like These on Your Resume? *Leadership *Facilitate *Liaison *Mediation If so, come find out about a position as and R.A. Information Sessions Febuary 3rd and 4th, 4:00PM, Old Chapel , loyalty, respect for the past, and just plain fun, a certain amount of tradition is necessary. Union re- cently celebrated its Bicentennial by renaming two very important build- ings on the basis of Money-lots 'o money, Any of you see the Olympics? Official drink of the 1996 Olympiad .. Official website of the 1996 Olympiad. Did you see the Official condom, too' 1 My point? When something simple and pure becomes too commercial it he- comes cheap and common Just because itain 't no brand name don't mean it weren \t bought and sold for someone 's big ego. It almost fright- ens me how much this college has changed in my tour years. True. many wonderful things have been added, like Froyo, voice mail. and the emergent popularity of crop tops and shorter skirts. But much has been lost, as well No longer can students acquire hockey tickets with ease, or sit in general admission seats. No longer do students enjoy outdoor parties or midweek celebra- tions. Chet' s has all but replaced Kelly's and Gepettos. However. I may have lasted long enough to see a winning hockey team ... (though Prexy may put an end to that) Perusing the college history, stu- dents can find mentions of class day. class wars. and a post gradua- tion celebration in Jackson's Gar- dens where Seniors pass around a jug of wine and the Nott hong (for tobacco use only) Oddly enough this last one survived, though mush reincarnated Sport rivalries were of greater concern--a hand. pep rally's, bon fires, ritual pranks to RPI 's teams , shelling opposing hockey goalies with oranges. were commonplace Ah yes, and the leg- end of Camp Union Spring Fest? A mere virginal child compared to the Wild Alcoholic three day musi- cal romp which once featured Blues Traveler (no really!) I \m not suggesting that Union revert to the days of \party only \mentality hut simply that they keep some time tested traditions in the interest of school spirit and fun Naked Nott runs, painting the Idol. christening the U on the football field-these are still around-···· but even they are in danger of extinc- tion We can have the best of both worlds-a strong a cad em ic reputa- tion, as well as a fun collegiate at- mosphere. The closer I come to graduation, the more I wonder how this college will look in the next generation I pray that it will continue to be a unique Academic institution, one which exhibits a proud history with many fun traditions of past, and perhaps some new ones. But l also fear the direction that the current ad- ministration is taking. Expansion and pure reputation are certainly not valid motivations for the sacrifice of tradition And until I die, it will be the skellar, WRUC, and God help me, the College Center. This will become an ongoing col- umn for as long as I care to com- plain. Comments.? We all have them. keep yours to your self-this is my column. I Screwed Up! The reason why I am writing this article is not because l Y~~ant to, but instead, because ll1ave to. I know, you have read enough articles by me over the last five issues to last you a hfe- time. You see, though. I had to engage myself in a tonn of cen- sorship which I should not have consented to, hut for a stupid reason, I felt I had to Enough with the dribble. here is the story My friend . .Josh Adams. wrote a story about the administration and our hockev coach. It had the who. what. when. where. and all that jazz. hut l felt it came down too hard on the wrong people and lacked facts Two weeks ago. I was in- formed that Coach Moore thought our WRUC hockey broadcasts were too critical After speaking \VIth him. we decided to set up a friendly meeting with the WRUC Sports staff and the coach The next night. I participated 111 OllC 0 r the best WRUC hockey broad- casts at RPI. The prohlctn was that we discussed the new rink in depth. I immediately got feedback from the adm in istra- tion, complaining that what was said on the air was inappropri- ate (allegations, they suid. arc not news) I \Vas \invited\' to a meeting set up hy Dean A ll<xd with our athletic director, sports information director, l\oach M oorc. and the Dean h imsd f The meeting went fine ( WR ( JC refused to hack down). hut Coach Moore and DirectlH Sakala bilell to attend Those of you who kno·w me know that I am one-hundred percent against the off-cam pus rink idea. and you knO\\ that I have been spending a lot o ftimc trying to get the students to have a vmce on campus This. com- bined with the new problems of WRUC Sports with the admin- istration. has worn me ouL even in fourth week This past Tuesday. I was go- ing to dinner (yep, it wus tur- key night!). but I did not real- ize that I was the turkey to he roasted. Josh told me about his article against Coach Moore and the powers that he. and I immediately asked him if I could read it It lacked some facts and was based on second- hand information, so I sug- gested that he think twice about running the article Now, tor the real mental pro- cess of a twenty-year old Unton student Josh is a freshman He is a charismatic guy and an asset to WRUC Sports However. if that article ran. I was concerned that pressure would be put on me to fire Josh. or else lose coopera- tion from the campus sports in- formation sources WRUC relies on I fJ osh 's article was unfactuai and ticked off the wrong person. I should have had the balls to stand hy hun and keep h11n on the staff I mn tired Tired of fighting this new rink idea. tired of defend- ing my integrity to the adminis- tration. and tired of getting slim amounts of sleep this term he- muse ofthose two activities In- stead of standing by my friend and coworker. I sa1d that 1 f the administration put pressure on me, I would have to ··rnllm\ or- ders.\ I !ere IS one of the th1ngs I do not say ollen. not hccaus~..: it 1 ~ untrue, but because I am a stub- born fool I screwed up Wh:;, should !let the administration he !acto red into my thought process. and for that matter, why should their opinion matter when I'm dealing with my friends') To Josh Adams I am sorry This will never happen again To the administration vvhy LjLH:stion my intcgrity' 1 Why not LjUCstion c:ertai n (meal) upstanding mem- hers of the (plan) adm JnJstrat ion who have told half-truths in the past'' President llull says he en- courages alternative VIC\\S. yet my sports staff \\as thoroughlv i ntcrro gated for reporting checked int<.mnation (and oft told rumors) which did not meet the administration· s standards WelL members of the adtninis- tration. congratulations. You rubbed otT on me Now I am a sometimes-inconsiderate, cen~or­ shlp-prone. drained man like some of you The problem 1s that tbcre is some cost to those char- acteristics (and not JUSt wntmg articles you were not planning to write). You can jeopardize friendships and trust by exhibit- ing those traits. and it on(v cost $112,000 for me to learn that les- son. Keep up the good work ad- ministration! Thanks, Frank Rossi WRUC Sports Director E-MAIL ADDRESSES FOR SUBMISSIONS E-Mail Us at Conc(}rdy @gar.union.edu .. All E-mail submissions must be recieved by 5 PM the MtJntlay before publication, and must be less tlran 500 words. Please see the Opinions policy on the opposite page for more details.

As we are now in our fourth week of winter term, we begin to realize that it's time for us to buckle down and discipline our~ selves. It's all about saying no to going out on a Monday flight, only to stay in your dorm and complain about how much fun you think that your friends are having. But that's okay, Melrose Place will always keep you entertained. And sitting around in the lounge, pretending to do work is always a useful waste of time. Saturday nights are still our fa~ vorite night of the week. Of course, what would be beHer than kicking back, sipping on a yoo~ hoo, and watching reruns of Blossom. That Joey Lawrence, is so dreamy, sometimes we feel like hittin' it HARDCORE. Now you're probably thinking, what a bunch of tools. Just kidding. Saturday nights mean fun and hopefully fun that you can remember the next day. If you can't remember, well then it's just a jumping off point for trying to gather the facts. Satur~ day nights often mean bouts of emotional distress usually caused by overconsumption of alcohol. Dancing is always fun, especially when you see people macking it on the dance tloor. At least be discreet or go back to yourmotn. We mean, isn't that what it'.s for? You don't pay forroom andb()ard for nothing ... get the tn{)st out·of your money and please refrait~ from PDA. No one wants to see it. Hockey games are also an en- joyable way to spend weekend time, and are made even more exciting when there is no place to sit. We guess that won'tbe a problem when nobody comes to the games after the rink gets moved off campus. The fans are great also. Mostofthern arefully intoxicated upon arrival. That just makes for an even bett~rtitne with a lively crowd which always does its best to degrade the other team. Isn't it funny hew every- one threw fruit and no one got punished? Even better than hockey fun is rising at the crack of dawn af- ter having gone to sleep just two hours earlier. We often lose track oftime and find ourselves at some fraternity until five in the mCJrn- Readjustment to Union Life Raises Cbiallenges ing, wondering where all the time went. by Cathy Bosiak Contributing Writer This usually Ieav:es Sunday, . For many students retuming which was supposed to be meant this tenn, it is hard readjusting to forhomework,asasleep day. It's 'life back at Union after spending also a good thing that the Fleet . ten: plus weeks abroad in a tbreign Bank acr.oss from school is closed , country .1 am sure that if you ask on S\indays. Thankfully, not • anyoneofthem where they would many people were in the vioinity . rather be; the overwhelming re- when two .girls decided to run top- Sponse would be Italy, Israel, · less outside of their car atthe stop~ Kenya,l3ngland etc. These are the l·ight after the women's'_hockey · students you see having anxiety game this past Sunday .. Many · attacks in the CC ar having ner- people might have been al~rmed vous breakd.owns in the library. at this abnormal activity while Recently returning trom Florence, driving hoine from· church. Yet I thmtght that I would have no another example <Jf how Union problem going back tomynonnal blends well into the surrounding routine and finding my place here neighborhood. ., at Union. However, this past week So, we begin this week with has been an extremely over- excitement.. .Most of us can't wait, whelming. until Friday, so we will probably Going on a term abroad ht1S see those people out Monday been the best experience and my night attempti.ng to relive their best term at Union hands down. weekend fun. This is good until Not a single book could ever com~ they realize that they have class pare to the knowledge that I the next morning. No big deal. l~arnedfr{)m beingaway. For the Go out and do what you want be- tlrst time in many ofourlives, one cause if you don't you will prob- is forced to see \real\ I ife and ably just sit and complain and say learn how to survive. Most im- \ what if I had ....... \. Just don't portantly, one returns a much cry about it later and SUCK IT stronger person because you UP!!!!! come toternts with your own life :;tnd emotions. Patience, confi- ·dence, and responsib Hity are just some of the bonusesto one's per- . sonality. While l was in Italy, there was no one to save me from being. Fobbed on an o:vemight train, being pickpoc~eted at the Vatican, or being chased down the streetby pajama people to buy socks or tissues. But the question still remains, after being abroad how does one deal with culture shock and adjusting to life· back at Uniml? Comingback,one realizes that many of the social pressures at Union that one I.JSed to think were important are 11Qt what makes life go romnd. Returning frorn the Australian Outback; Junior Dana Murphy explains that \A term abroad allows you to start· over. One is able to free themselves because at Union everycmeknows you and expects certain things from you but, away I w.as ableto get out of the mundane world of Un.ion. '' ln Florence, l saw twenty-six students from all dif.:. ferent aspects of campus pttll to~ g~ther and become clos.e f~iends. For myself: thatis what in~de my trip special. There w,as nothing that divided us and we.ameft Flo- rence with a bond that can never be broken. Sorority Rush: Changes Need to be Made by Shalini Sood Contributing Writer MISSION: Go \undercover\jor the Concordy and find outwltat the real deal is on Sorority Rush. Eversincemy freshmanyear, I have always been kind ofskep~ tical of the whole system of women's rush, but when I was asked to report on the affair, I went in with an objective ap- proach, after all there are many· great people I know that are part of the Greek system. Even though i had not partici- pated in rush my freshman year, I had heard a lot about women's rush and faced the situation feel- ing less intin1idated compared to the freshmen and a Jot more pre- pared for the upcoming course of events. I realize now that rush really I i ved up to all the stories and more. Granted there are .defi- nitely some \bonuses\ to rush but actually going through the week remforced the idea that there needs to be changes, which prob- ably is no surprise to anyone, in- cluding sisters. The wee.k began with us sitting in a classroom in our assigned groups waiting to go to our first party. After a short time the group ofusproceeded to our first house. The most tedious part had to be waiting in front of the houses (don't forget this was last week when the temperature was about -20 degrees) until roll call for our group was done. When Wf! entered the house, we were greeted by all the sisters ! ~ .. f \ • il. singing some welcoming songs, after which a sister was pairedoff with a rushee to talk for about five to ten minutes followed up by a subtle \switch\ where we were introduced to another sister. This fiasco had both positive and nega- tive aspects, the negative being pretty obvious; a five to ten minute conversation is probahfy not going to give either person much insight on the other person, everyone was ready to call it a night. The second night basicl:llly fol- lowed the previous but this time we were given a tour of each house getting a glimpse of soror- ity life. The third night ofrush had a slight variation where each house put on skits promoting their so· rarity. Even as soon as the first night, rushees had also fallen into words, wear the right clothes? All these seemingly shallow, unimportant elements com- pletely undermine what should be the essence of •<sisterhood\. One freshmen I talked to noted that \Many girls become ab~ sorbed in the whole process and feel a lot of undue pressure, it completely occupies their minds tbr the entire week.\ Personally I tried to keep my~ It seems that there are many wonderful people who are part of sororities, but the whole process that allows one to he a part of such organizations is truly offensive. \ . much less if you want to be sis- ters\ The positive, though, is that I definitely rnet a lot of new people, even in my own class, and [ 'm sure that it was even more over- whelming to the freshmen who at this point probably have not had a lot of contact with upperclass~ men. The party continued with some more conversation and a short film featuring the sisters, andthen there was the infamous flicking on and off ofthe lights which was our cue to ]eave for the next party, but not before we were serenaded with a farewell song. Therou~ tine was the same for each house and by the time one made itto the last party the conversation bad become pretty monotonous for both the sisters and rushees ahd the superficial stereotypes mak- ing quick judgements on houses and their portrayal on campus. The process is not only unfair to those rushing but to those on the other side of the system as well. The hardest part probably had to be Tuesday wheh everyone was waiting to find out if they were accepted or rejected. What the process entailed was waiting for a phone call at a specified time in case one did not receive any in- vites for the next night. If there was no phone call, one received invites that night. Even this as- pect of the process seemed a little brutal; girls linedup outside of a classroom waiting for the in vita• tions, waiting to find out if they had made a good enough impres- sion on the sisters or not did the:y ' ' .: ~o ~~e right ~l:ting, say .the: right self detached from the situatioti but being an R.A., .I could see that after the invitations were .passed out some girls were dis~ appointed and a I ittle upset with the system. There were also a few that took it in stride and knew they were better off not being a part .of something that discriminates in sueh a manner. By the time Thursday came, there was greater tension as people got more wrapped up in the system where acceptance meant even more. It seems that there are many wonderful people who are a part of soroti- ties, but the whole ptocess that ·allows one to a part of such an organization is traly offensive. By the end oTthe week, rushees were either e'ated because they were matched with the house they wanted, were feeling de- jected or disappointed, ques- tioning if they would fit in on campus even as an itld_epen- dent, or were completely dis- gusted. So the question remains of what can be done to modify and improve the situation for every- one because obviously there are other schools where rushing is not as scrutinized as it is on this campus. \One major problem that a freshm.an pointed out was, \As it is at this school we have to deal with a transition of return- ing to school after the six week break and then hav'ing to make such a big decision that will af- fect the rest of your college years is very overwhelm in g.\ Is it fair for freshmen to have to decide when they have hardly begun to experience life as an independent? One option could be having rush beginning sophomore year after students have had time to experience and adjust to college life. Another idea that's almost always sug~ gested is adopting a more laid- back system closer t() that of fr.atemity rush. Ovetall, I'mglad I was able to go through the experience to at least see how rush is orga~ nized. However, rushees shouldn't feel that \Going Greek\ is essential t{) ;(;lnjoying college life and should remem- ber that being a p~rt of the Greek system sho ~ld be an added dirnension to ~otneone's tife nQt the only defilling point ofa person. I - n tl E 1 1 f j 1 (

·~ -: ' \ . Features - . _ - . 'illlp,~ <!Itntturb-icn:sis • January 30, 1997 • Page 9 p Last Tuesday I found this tnemo in my mailb-(i)x addressed to Con or McKenzie, Associate Editor, The Concordiensis. It read as follows: To All Club Officers; This is just a little memo to in- fonn. you ofthep()liicy on hang,- ing up advertisements in the ReamerCan:ipus Center. All fly- ers, posters, etc. t11ustbe brought Respect for the Student F·orum Flo-urish.es by Co not McKenzie to Student Activities Office and which often clutter the walls of must be approved by either Mrs_ the Reamer Campus Center. If Marra or Mrs. Clark. The reason anyone has any questions con- for tbi.s is to verify the time and ceming this letter or any- other location of meetings, so that Cen- club genera-l information, please tral Scheduling accurately po~ts call meatxXXXX. Thank you for your gatherings on the list of your cooperation. Daily Meetings (which is found : aU around the Reamer Campus . Center and on Union College's home page), This is also done to avoid the accumulation. oftmau- . thorized or off campus events Sincerely, Christopher J. Bratigan, V.P. of Administration · Chair ofthe COC Glad as 1 was that the Student Forum had finally deci<led to take action against the clutter pbgu- ing the walls of our ReatnerCam- pus Center, 1· had to wonder at their motives. If my memory serves, it was not more than two weeks ago tl:lat Student Forum froze UBGLAD's budget for un- authorized poster hanging. As the censorship saga unfolded, H be- came clear that action was taken against UBGLAD not because of their lack of a stamp but because oftheir lack of\goodtaste\. lt seems \clutter\ (II:ld \verifi- cation\ are the Student Forum's new code words for .censorship. This recent \policy\ cl1ange is i1ot a new action, but an obvious re- action to an embarrassing situa- tion. The Student Forum's lame at- cess has effectively given two secretaries the new role of\poster thought police\. On this campus, posters are per- haps the most effective and used methods of communication among students. As sweet and helpful as these two women are, is it really appropriate to place the stamp of approval for all posters into their hands? I think it's time for Student Fo- rum to stop making- rash decisions and develop an actual.standpoint on freedom of expression. Then perhaps, they could make a ratio- nal, well thought out decision. Give it a try Student Forum, you might find taking the time to think before making actions actually takes less tirne than making thoughtless decisions, thinking about them and then retracting them. \ Thurbervtlle Riding Along In My Auto01obile ... by Rawson Thurber Ladies and gentleman, there is something amiss on our cloistered gro4nds. It has recently come to my attention that there are now more handicapped parking spaces in the vicin.ityofthe College Center than there are Deaas cfthe school. This strikes me as unfair. How many handicapped people actually attend Union College? One? Two? Are we expecting an onslaught of the disabled? Why in hell are there exponential numbers of handicapped parking, and nothing for the average student\? Who's running this place? But wait, have no fear faithful reader. Apparently there is a shortage of handicapped stu- dents at Union College. So what should we do? Fill the gap baby. Fill the gap. The fo-llowing are the best disability excuses to give the local parking militia when they attempt to ticket you for parking in the blue and·white zone. Top Ten Disabilitie~ That Will Allow You to Park in the Handi- capped Spaces 10. Fro-Yo Deficient 9. Very, very st<lned 8. Attention DefiCit-Disorder {Attention Deficit Disorder) 7. Validine Addict 6. College Center Socialite 5 . Chefs Enthusiast 4. Veiy, very lazy (see #9) 3. Correspondence Crack Head 2. 5th Year Senior l. Suffering fr()ln,Sega-itis Student ofthe Week: Alison RozEruchis this week's award winner. Why-you.ask? Did she pester and beg? No, not exactly. A I ison came to the aid of a friend and fellow :;;tudent who was in dire need of am;:~ther to party with. Alison sacrificed her day in order to \hang out\ with this indi- vidual who was friendless. If you see Alison walking around cam- pus, give herabigol~ hug for a job well done. Kudos to Ms. Rozbruch for her altruistic .Ways. Seldom have fen countered such a true friend. Don't Forget!: Hate mail? Comments? Questions? Student of the Week nominations? Write to Rawson Thurber, Box #2018. by Jeffery Druzba StaffWriter So many things about driving irritate me. It's not even Christ- mas, and' 1 still had just as much trouble getting a parking spot for the movies at Crossgates Malllast week. After wandering up and down the aisles with a bunch of other cars for ten minutes,. watch- ing all of them weasel into spots just asl gotthere, I finally found one for myself Competing tor a parking space brings out the • worst in everyone, but it's all about survival. Eventually, my in- stincts turned up a notch. I saw a spot opening up in another aisle, . sped up, turned up the other aisle ahead of another guy who noticed the spot at the same time, and waited for a woman to get into her car. Meanwhile, the guy I just cut off was beeping at me, while I stniled and giggled with delight. The thing about getting parking spots is that it's just like what people say about getting your first job after college. \You have to put in your time.\ You can't just go to the parking lot and get a spot before all those other people who have been there. You have to do your time, gain experience, and gain the ability to sniff out the spots. After driving around aim- lessly for ten minutes, you're able to look at a person coming out of the mall and, based on their ap- pearance, judge what car they will soon be getting into, thus leaving a parking space open for you. You huny to their car before they even know what aisle they left it in. Of course, on the road, the sur- vival game is still the same. I ..---------------------...,.------------;· could be driving along the high- A CORRECTION OF SORTS As retiring Photogra- phy Editor ofTite Concordiensis, I have one last matter to clear up. Last issue a h<lckey photograph was printed it1 reverse. This was the fau,lt of the printer, not the · staff, or photographer who took the photograph. The printer ex- tends his apologles to anyone who was upsetV¥:ith thismistake. I wo,!-lld also like to thank _every- one for all of the fun and stress that this job has entailed, and I would like to wish the new edi- tor, Laurie Kirschner, all the luck in the world, and a bottle of aspi- rin for the headaches. It has been real, folks and it bas been fun. Laurel R. T. Rum a ~--~----------~--------------------~ way and, if someone is weaving and cruising between cars in my rearview mirror, yes, they're go- ing to find themselves boxed in if I can help it. I'll align myself with the slew of cars in the right and middle lanes and just sit there in the left lane while I adjust the cruise control to match what ev- eryone else is doing. That's my versi<li1 ofhighway justice. The reward for my troubles lies in the guythrowing his hands in the air when he finds himself a few feet · from my back bumper, doomed ,to puthis toot on his brake_ When that happens, I'm thinking that I'm going to stay right there for a while, wait for him to slowdown, sitthere fora momentlooking at him in my rearview1nirror, and then speed off. The best p~rt is when he finally passes you. He's .got this look on his face as he's next to you, and there's notl1ing he can do. The best way to irri- . tate someone on the road is to give him a look of helplessness. The look of \!'m very sorry, sir, but I haven't a clue h-ow to drive this thing.\ He looks at you and, as he speeds off, you're hoping that the New York State Troop- ers catch his radar-detector-using, cellular~phone-talk ing, combing- hair-in-rearview-m irror, snooty, thinking-he's-a-tough-guy self. That's the final insult, because, as you drive by him, and he's pulled over on the side of the road by omcer .Iones, he looks at your car and thinks, \That's tl1ejerk who was in front of me betorc.\ Then he thinks, \Wait ami nutc, I'm the jerk who is pulled over right now.\ .,._ The fact is that everyone who drives on the road, with the ex- ception of old wome11, thinks that they are authorities on how to drive. Everyone has his or her own style, and thLts, everyone thinks that he or she leamed from the original Zen master of driv- ing himself. Other than the fact that driving is the most competitive activity of the modern age, cars them- selves are someth:ing to laugh at sometimes I was driving and looking at my steering wheel the other day. Why dotl1ey have that fake sewn look to them? Are we supposed to be convinced that someone might have sew11 them together? This isn't.something I need in a car, and if! were one of the designer types who work on things like that, r would hope to eliminate the sew11 wheel tradi,. tion. I saw agreatexarnpleofsome- thing that l really 'hate the other day_ l despise it when the cars in front of ine 'fbrce all of their be- liefs on me. I saw a bumper sticker on a car in front of me that said, 11 Jesus Christ, Supreme Court Judge, Coming Soon, Not Approved By Congress 11 I looked at it for a second and thought, \Yeah ... ! guessso.i' Be- sides the fact that something 1 ike that is a really bizarre thing to say, I dorh really want to know about it in the first place I don't mind the bumper stickers from places that people have been_ The \This car climbed Mt. Washing- ton\ stickers and the \South of the Border\ stickers are okay too. It's when 1 start finding out what these complete strangers think about Bill Clinton, Bob Dole, or Ross Perot that I get annoyed. I don't care ifyou think that \Mean People Suck.\ Use your turn sig- nals and maybe I wouldn't be ob- noxiously honking my horn at you_ No, I'm not going to ca\11- 800-EAT-S **T, and I still don't like your driving. I'm all for women doing what they think they have to do in order to make their point but--bumper stickers'> Do I need to see hum per stickers with quasi-witty remarks on them?\ A woman's place is in the House ... the Senate. etc.\ I'm convinced that bumper stickers will not change the world. In fact, they seem to only make a mock- ery of it. I hate a lotofthings about driv- ing. That's why I want to make a lot of money and have someone drive tor me_ That way, I won't have to be directly involved in the competitiveness or be subjected to stupid bumper stickers in front of me. My mind won't wander to the whys and haws of steering wheels either. It seems that the answer to all the troubles of driv- ing is to have someone drive for you. .,. One thing would r~main . though_ I_don't think I could let someone drive me around with- out giving them a little advice from the champ. I own the road- ways. I am a wealth of driving tips and facts. \Hey Jennings, let me tell you a thing or two about these str.eets that I learned di- rectly from the Zen master of driving himself. __ \ HE)'. You kNo\V you Uh\NT TO MAkE MoM & DAd pRoud. Do ir iN pRiNT. WRiTE FoR fEArum::s.

Page_ 10 • January 30, 1997 • ~!Up~ @ournrbiensis . . · 'flrts & [ntertainment \The Relic... Siarr.ing Penelope Ann ;\fii.fer. Tom Si:::emurt:. James ~Vhitmure. Di- r.:cled by Peter llyw11s. Rated R. Pwwnuu11! J>ictures. Rating: *** (out ofjour) lne Relic is a taut thfillcr \vhich owes its style both to the giant- monster-in-the-city 1noviesofthe 1950s and to the gory horror films of the 1980s, which IS what the movie ends up becorning by the finale. Still, it's a delightfully en- tertaining mind-killerthat lacks a deep plot but makes up for this in tension and terror Miller plays an evolutionary biologist associated v., ith the Naturalllistory Museum in Chi- cago, which is.about to open an ~:xhibit on supcrstition. A col- league of hers - in Brazil w- searching obscure tribal myths -sends back some leaves with a red-colored fuRgus on them. *-' ' Unbeknownst to her and the rest of the museum stafC a monstrous cr-eature has invaded the lower sanctums of the museum and is proceedingto kill otT workers one by one. ;South American Treasure Goes on Rampage in :North Anierican MUseum Sizcmorc,.!:lsthe police investi- gator on the scene, wishes to sea·! off the m usc u m during the exhibition 'suJ)cning night gab, much againstthc wishes of the museum staff>>\.ho need f1nancial support for thc.:ir projects But Sizemore's intuition-~stcmmif'!g from the prcv ious night's murder of a security j,lUard - leads him to believe that .something more terrible than a human killer may be lurking in the basements be- low Whitmore, asascientist work- ing in the museum, adds some humor as the aging colleague qf Miller's who specializes in mythi- cal folklore and ends up stari·ng in wide-eyed wonder at the creature just bcfon; it tears him to shreds This rnigl1t be a fitting end to the celebrated actor who made his name known in anothcrgiant-crea- turc-tcaturc, 1954's Them 1 The fil ni bas a .series of truly absurd details, including the ar- rival of a Braziliar1 cargo ship at a Chicago dock. How exactly did a sh.ip from Brazil get on Lake Michigan'> The creature effects. by Stan Winston, are fairly con- vincing- this is surely a beast one would rwt want to meet jn a · dark at:ley. As usual, the film's characters include party-goers wh0 do not believe the immense threat ~1ci ng them, greedy peop I e wllo want money, and two lead- i!lg sta.rs who convince everyone elscthey :1re in trm1ble The t11m's scic.ntifk jargon m~d explanations arc comprehensible, and the terror avoids outright gore until neartheclimax. As directed by Hyams (Thnecop), who was also \the fil1n 'sdirectorofphotog- raph y, The Relic is a suspenseful tbrilterthatderRands very little and thus gives. out just enough shocks to satisfy. Two Plays about Middle America by Gabriela Dory StajJWritf!r This winter term, the Yulman Theater and the Department of Performing Arts willpresent two plays thatexplorethemeaningof 1niddle Amer.jcan life. Union Pro- lessor Barry Smith wi II direct Tales of the Lost Fornricans. by Constance Congdon, and senior Amelia Teasdale will d itectAngels rn Amenca, the highly acclaimed Broadway play,by T<Jny Kuslmer. The two plays not only share a similar theme, bttt their authors also approach theater in the same manner. While Kushnerwashav- ing difficulty writing Angels in America, he saw a stage reading of The Tales of the Lost Formicans, and he was so im- pressed that he oifered to write an introduction to a collection of Congdon's plays. Kushner sees Congdon as a playwright ofhope: «Here is a writer who l1as not lost the understanding we all once OPENINGFEBRUARY2 had of the awesome power of play begi11s, played by Eric Steckler, whowilJ:bedesigningthe gds-inAmertca, it is AIDS. dreams, a writer who remembers Wisotszky '()0 ;Evelyn, Cathy's set, calls The Tales of the Lost Sertior Amelia Teasdale has her dreams and her nightmares, mother, who is struggling with F ormican.s \a madcap social sat- and who possesses great skills in both her daughters' divorce and ire about middle America from the bringing what she learns in the her husbands' .alienation, played perspective of aliens from outer night to life.\ by Kimber1y Rohback '00; Judy, space. It is both frightening and The first act of The Tales of the Cathy's best friend and confi- horrifying.\ Last Formicans is intentionally dant, played b:Y Lori Greene'OO~ .John Millet, technical director ambiguous, and Congdon .Jerry, played by Morgan ofthe Y1dmanTheater, is excited achieves her goal ofdisplacing the Hargrove ''97; and the part of the to work 011 The Tale of The Lost audience by double~casting each actor, playeci l>y Joshua Bresette Formicans, because he will be re- charactcr as·an alien and a human. '97, Mike \Yus.ko '97, and Adam constructing the audience-stage The play is a portrayal by aliens Betke '97. relationship based on Steckler's ofan American family in the midst Smith cllose The Tales of the designs to create the effect of of divorce and death. What starts Lost FormicCf.lls because it is a outer space. out as a humorous misunder- good play that is within the stu- Both The Tales of the Lost standing of human life evolves dents' rang~ FormicansandAngelsinAmerica into a disturbing look at relation- \It seem;s that the pi ay is aregreatly concerned with there- ships in middle-American life. about alie11S, but it is not. It is lationship between the actors and There are seven characters iri about our o\.Nn alienation in our the audience. Both authors alien- the play, and the cast includes the own conte111porary age,\ said ate the atrdience at times, focus- following: Cathy, a recently di- Smith. ing on sensitive issues, such as vorced woman who decides to Smith also said that students death, divorce, and betrayal. lt1 move to Colorado with ·her par- will enjoy the play because they each play the actors are su~jected ents, played by Allison Evans '98; will be able to relate to the tela- to an exterior force or to a disaster Eric, Cathy'steenage son, played tionships that make The Tales of that dominates their lives. In The by Alex Beckers '98~ Jim, Cathfs the Lost Fon\'icans so compel- Tales oftheLost Formicans, it is father, who is in the early stages ling. the aliens that are coritrolling the of Alzheimer's disease when the Professor Charles Norman lives of the humans, and in An- l..@Cal Arts Calendar war~:ted to put on a production of Angels in America sirice she first saw it on Broadway. As her se- ni<Jrproject, Teasdale willbe di- recting the first half of Angels in America, with alternate scenes being read and others being per- fanned. \'The connection between The Tales of the Lost Formicans and A11gels in America is very in- tense-you can see the intluenc~ of The Tales of the Lost Fornzicans in Angels in America, and how one artist inspires an- other,\ said Teasdale. The production, which ili- d udes a cast of seven characters, willbe perfonned in the director's studio February 14, 15, and 16 at 8:0() PM in the Yulman Theater TLtfes of the Lost Formicans win open February 26-28, March I, a11dMarch 5-8 at'8:00 PM in the Yul1nan Theater. For further in- fornnation please call the !?ox of- fice. ALSO AT THE ALBANY INSTITUTE OF HISTORY &ART A sensational murder trial, with' plenty of money and motive. scandal, and suspe11se, heats up the scene as the New York Siate Theater-Institute continues its 21st seas<Jn. Witness for the Prostclltion, directed by Ralph Allen, is the new production of Agatha Christie's tenst= co~rtroom drama, and is scheduled onstage at the Schacht Fine Arts Center of Russell Sage College in Troy. Performances will nm until February 15. January I8-March2: Marble Dust and Magic L!l~S: American Sandpaper Paintings from the Collectiou of Randall and Tany~ Holton. A major folk art exhibition focusing on 19th century charcoal and pastel drawings on sandpa- per. East & West Galleries, Main Hall. January 18-March 2: Mac Faculty Show. ·works by regional artists who are also instructors in the Albany Institute's Museum Art Class and Art Partners programs. MAC Gallery. For more infon11atien. call the box office at (518) 274-3256. ONC'JOING The Albany Institute ofHistory & Art is celebrating the bicentennial of the City of Albany serving as the New York State capital with The Ca.pital Comes to Albany, anew exhibition presenting the stories of people, events, and issues surrounding the estab- lishment of Alb:any asthepermanent home of New Yo* State government in 1797. 1'he exhibit also explores the life afthe city of A lhany at the titri:e of the 18\¥1.1 ce't~btltti;ou of the centennial of the Capital in Albany. The Ca.P.ital Comes to Albany draws ()ll a selection of pottra.its, photograph$, document~. and objects from collections. of the Albany Institute. . . ·· c ·• · , · , . , · ·\-. . • ·. . · The exhibit alswe:xaooinoo the·so~S-ety~a~<itiwtt!!ip~;-.j~r ~~han&· at ~t~:;jil~,~~tlh~il::&ttl .. · January 25-April !3: Leon Marcotte: 19th Century Cabinet Maker and Interior Decorator. Features an important suite of c. 1865 Louis XVI fumiture designed and manufactured by the French·born cabinet-maker Leon Marcotte ( 1824-1887), along with Eastman Jo~nson painting depicting a piece of the furniture. I •

·· l'hl' N el ic. .. .\ta ,.,. i I!J!. /','lll'lof!t' .11111 \1!1/t'r. fum .\i::,·mur,· .fa/Ill'.\ ll'lul/1/ur,· !>1- r,'tl<'•l h\·/'t'ltT//ram.l l?aft·cf/( l'anwtountl'll flirt'.\ Raring * * * (out of jour) The Relic is a taut thriller \v hich owes its style both to the giant- monster-in-the-city movies ofthc l9SOs and to the gory horror films of the llJXOs. \Vhich is what the movie ends up becoming by the finale StilL it's a delightfully en- tertaining mind-killer that lacks a dccp plot hut makes up for tim 111 k'n~1on and terror \1dlcr pla\s an nolutmnan h1ulug1:-.t :1'>:-.UclatcJ \\ llh thL· :'\dtural ll1~turv M ll'>CUill 111 C\11- c.l):!ll \\ h1ch I'> ahout to oren an c\hihit on supcrstition /\ col- kague of hers - 111 Bra;il re- '>carchmg ohscurc tribal myths -- sends hack some leaves \\ ith a rcd-colored fungus on them ~ Unbeknownst to her and the rest ofthe museum stafC a monstrous creature has invaded the lower sanctums of the museum and is proceeding to kill ofT workers one hy one South American Treasure Goes on Rampage in North American Museum S11.emorc. as thc police invcsti- !,!atur on th.: :-.ccne. \\ l'>hl''> tu ~cal ull the lllllSl'lllll dur1ng the L'\hihJtllHl. '> opcn1ng n1ght gala mu~.:h ~1):!al11'>l the\\ l'>he~ tlt' the mu:-.L'lllll'>lalf \\ho nccJ financial '>Llp[1ort for their rrojC(\S But Si;enwrc ·s mtuit1on · stemming from the pre\ ious night's murder of a security guard - leads him to believe that something more terrible than a human killer may he lurking in the basements be- low Whitmore. as a scientist work- ing in the museum, adds some humor as the aging colleague of Miller's \\ ho spec1alizes 111 mythi- cal f(lll-..lore and end'> up stanng in \\ idL'-L'\ ed \\onder at thL· creatun: JUst hL·Ii,rl· 11 ll'ar~ h11n to '>hrcds Tim Ill ight hL· a 1'1tt mg end to the celebrated ~1ctor '' hu maJc his name knm\11111 another giant-crea- turc-feature. llJ) .. fs J1rt'm' The film has a scries of trul~ absurd details. including the ar- rival of a Brazilian cargo ship at a Chicago dock I low exactly did a ship from Brazil gel on Lake Michigan') The creature effects. by Stan Winston. are fairly con- vincing - this is surely a beast one would not want to meet 111 a dark alley As usuaL the film· s characters Include part~ -goer<. \\ho do not hclle\e thc lmmcnsc threat t:tcl!H! them <>rceu\ pcoplc ~ '= . \\ ho \\~1111 monc\. ~mJ t\\o kaJ- 111):! stars \\ho con\ 1ncc C\enone else thev arc 111 trouhk The film ·s scicnti lk Jargon and explanations are com prehcnsihle. and the terror avo ids outright gore until near the climax As directed by Hyams ( Timecop), who was also the film's director of photog- raphy. The Relic is a suspenseful thrillerthat demands very little unJ thus g1ves out Just enough shocks to satisfy. Two Plays about Middle America by Gabriela Dory Staff Writer This winter term. the Yulman Theater and the Department of Performing Arts will present two plays that explore the meaning of mHJdlc i\mencan lifc l l111on Pro- ks~nr Bam· Sn11th \\ill direct litll's of the l.ost I· orn11u111s. h\ C nn-.tance C llll):!.U0\1. and sen 1ur ·\md1a Tca..,Jail: will dJrL'Ct ,-lngl'ls 111. lnh'f'l£ a. the l11ghf~ accl~lllllt'd Broadwa:-. plav. hy Tonv Kushner The l\\o plays not only share a sunilur theme. hut their authors also approach theater in the same manner While Kushner was hav- ing difficulty writing Angels in .·lmerica. he saw a stage reading of The l'ales o/ the l.ost Formicans. anJ he was so im- pressed that he offered to write an Introduction to a collection of Congdon ·s plavs Kushner sees Congdon as a playwright ofhope <'I !ere is a writer who has not lost the understanding we all once had of the awesome power of dreams. a writer who remembers her dreams and her nightmares. and who possesses great ski lis in bringing what she learns in the night to life\ The first act of The Tales of the l.asr l:ormicans is intentionallv amhi!,!UOus. anJ Congdon ach ie\ es her goal o fdi-.plac 111g the ~1ud 1ence h\ dnuhlc-casting each char<~cter <~'>an al1en anJ a human I he pia\ IS a rortra\ al hv alien~ oLm t\mcncmt:mul\ in the miJ-.t ofdivorcc and death What starts out as a humorous m isunder- standing of human lire ev<J!ves into a disturbing look at relation- ships in middle-American life There arc seven characters in the play. and the cast includes the l'ollmvmg Cathv. a recently' di- vorced woman who decides tn move to Colorado Vvith her par- ents. pbyt:d hy Allison !:vans'()~. I :ric. ('a thy· s teenage son. played by Alex Beckers '98; Jim. Cathy's father. who is in the early stages of Alzheimer's disease when the play begins. played by Eric Wisotszky '00~ Evelyn, Cathy's mother. who is struggling with both her daughters' divorce and her husbands' alienation. played by Kimberly Rohback 'OO.Judy. Cathy· s best friend and confi- dant. played hy l.ori (]reene '00. Jerrv. playeJ hv Morgan I Iargrm e 'lJ7. and thc part of the actor. pia\ cd hv Joshua Bresette '117. !\like Yu-.ko 'l}7_ and Adam Berke'l)7 Smith chose !he raft'S o/the l.ost Form icans because it is a good pill\ that is within the stu- Jents' range \It seems that the play is ahout alicns. but it is not It is about our own alienation in our own contemporary age.\ said .Smith Sm1th also sa1d that students \vill enJOY the play because thev will be able to relate to the rela- tionships that make The Tales ol the Lost Formicans so compel- ling. Professor Charles Norman Steckler. who will be designing the set, calls The Tales 4 the Lost Formicans «a madcap social sat- ire about middle America from the perspective of a\ iens from outer space. It is hoth frightening and horrifying\ John Miller. technical director ofthe Y1•l•nan Theater. is excited to \\ork on ?he l'alc of '111£: /.ost Fonmcans_ because he\\ iII here- constructing the aut.liencc-stage relationshir hascJ nn Steckler's designs to create the d'fcct or outer space Both ThL' Tales o/ the l.ost Formicans and Angels in America are greatly concerned with there- lationshi r between the actors and the audience Both authors alien- atc the audience at times. focus- ing on sensitive issues. such as death. JiHlrce. and betrayal In each play the actors me subjected to an exterior force nrto a disaster that dominates their lives In lhe Talesofthe Lost Formicans. it is the aliens that arc controlling the lives of the humans. and in An- gels in America. it is A IDS Senior Amelia Teasdale has wanted to put on a production of Angels in America since she first saw it on Broadway As her se- nior project Teasdale will be di- recting the first half of Angels in A me rica. with :1lternate sccnes heing read and others heing per- t(mned ·<The connectwn hct\\l..'Cil Tht' Tales o{the !.ost hJrmtc'OilS and Angels in .-1 menca 1 s 'l'r\ 111- tcn<.t.' -\·ou can sec.· the mtluenct.· of The Tales of the !.ost Formicans in Angels in America. and how one artist inspires an- other.\ said Teasdale. The productiOn. which in- cludes a cast of seven characters. will he perfonncd in the director's studio February 14. 15. and 16 at R 00 PM in the Yulman Theater Tales o('the Lost Formicans will open February 26-28, March I. and March 5-8 at 8 00 PM in the Y ulman Theater. For further in- formation please call the box of- fice. I..©Cal Arts Calendar OPENING FEBRUARY2 A sensational murder trial, with plenty of money and motive; scandal, and suspense, heats up the scene as the New York State Theater-Institute continues its 21st seas01t Witness for the Prosecution. directed by Ralph Allen, is thenev.· production of Agatha Christie's tense courtroom drama, and is scheduled onstagc at the Schacht fine Arts Center of Russell Sage College in Troy. Perft.mnances will rtm tmtil February 15 For more intonnation. call the box oltlce at{5 f8) 274-3256 ONGOING The Albany Institute ofi-listory & Art IS celebrating the bicentennial of the City of J\lbany serving us the New York State capital with The Capital Comes toAlbany, anew exhibition presenting the stories of people, events, and issues surrounding the estab- lishment of Albany as the pennanenthome ofNew York State government in 1797. l'he exhibit also explores the life ofthe city of Albany at the tirne ofthe 1.897 celebration of the centennial of the Capital in Albany. The Capital Comes to Albany draws on a selection of portraits, photographs, documents, and objects from collections of the Albany Institute. The exhibit also examines the society ancl culture in Albany at the end of the 18th century. Itwill be on viewinthe Albany Institute's.SouthG1:1.l'lerythmugh June l, 1997. The Albany Institute of History & Art is located at 125 Washington Avenue in downtown Albany. Call (518)463'·4478 for infonnat:ion. ALSOATTHEALBANYlNSTITUTEOFHISTORY&ART Jnnuary 1'8-March 2 Marble Dust and Magic Lakes: American Sandpaper Pain rings from the C<JIIection of Randall and Tanya Holton. A major folk art exhibition focusing on 19th century dwrcoal and pastel dra\vings or'! sandpa- per East & West Galleries, Main Hall January 18-March 2 Mac Fac.ulty Show Workshy regional artists who are also Instructors i.n the Albany lnstitute'sMuseum Art Class ancl Art Partners programs MACGallery January 25-April13: Leon Marcotle: 19th Century Cabinet Maker and Interior Decorator Features an important suite ofc 1865 Louis XVI fumitnre designed and manufactured by the French-hom cabinet-maker Leon Marcotte ( 1824-1887). along with Eastman Johnso1i painting depicting a piece oft he furniture AT THE ALBANY CENTER GALLERIES January 17-Febn:tary 28: The Mohawk Hudson ·Regionallnvitati()nal,teatur- ing work by Judith Brust, Steve Perkins, and Thomas.Sarrantonio, in the Leslie Urbach Gallery. January 17-February 28: Paintings by Gerri Pugliese Moore, in the Up.,. stairs Gallery. The AlbanyCenterQaneries are located.at the comer ofChapel ::md Monr0e Streets in.downtown Albany. fortnore imfonrtation call (518) 462..4775.. I •

~~ge 11 \ January 30, 1997 • 'Qil!e (!lt~urnrb:iensis. · · · Arts & [ntertainrnent Q()()d Shots- group photograph of the Schenectady ARC photography class {May 1996} Photograph by Martin Benjamin My Dad, Ma.r 1996 Photograph by Robert Stowell Stephen, Mapleridge Day Tre-atment Center, May 1995 Photograph by Noelle Pirnie All Photos Courtesy of UNlON/ ARC Photography Project 1996-97 Mapleridge Day Treatment Center, Rotterdam, N.Y. I 995 _Un-Named Photagrapher My Cousin Ryan, May 1996 Photograph by Sandra Corlew

~ / ~ 1/ \ 1 Union\ ARC Photo Show ··.Preview· \ Good Shots - group photograph of the Schenectady ARC photography class {May 1996} Photograph by Martin Benjamin My Dad, Ma_x 1996 Photograph by Robert Stowell Stephen, Mapleridge Day Treatment Center, May 1995 Photograph hy Noelle Pirnie All Photos Courtesy of UNION/ARC Photography Project 1 996-97 Mapleridge Day Treatment Center. Rotterdam. N.Y. 1 09) Un-Named Photugrapher ~~ ·\ (> -<·~' . ··~ .. . . My Cousin Ryan, May 1996 Photograph hy Sandra Corlew

.. ---~ ................. ~ ................ . ·,·' - Page 12 • January 30, 1997 • ·m:rp~ <!Io·n,orbit·~tsis · · Arts & [ntertainmem - _.·_:\ ' ' i ·; ... -, -.- .:· · .. .,· ·4<r·11i~:~Jt~lic;~;r.~·,.r,.~.;;.,J(-£~~.) i ,,.~ ·· -;\'--~~:t:.rJr :.~:,- •. ·,;:.,;ci:ffff,.;~:%t~?,':<l-~~~~~:ra .. t~*.i'I.-J~ .. ~~~$t.(}:.-.~ .. -,.~;~;'~: ~--;;; --t ·i ·,'if.· -, -~,: ;:r.;:,\'~%)~-~N<->;f!.J<li!!il!~''·'l!iiii.~lf.~~¥'!! 5. Jerry Maguire · \\. ' --· \, j;',,_ · ...... ·,1 ... ,. Study Fall Term in Brazil Martha Huggins .(Sociology) Director of Term Abroad to Brazil Have you ever wanted to learn about human rights and women's contributions to economic development, and., visit relatively untouched.tropical wetlands, andbecomepart · . of African heritage, and see tropical beaches, and conduct · field research in ahuman rights organization, orin a children's . street community, or on political theater, race relations,or women and work, andleam a new language? THEN YOU SHOULD STUDY FALL TERM JN BRAZIL! This is,one of the most personally enriching and in- .. tellectually stimulating terms abroad that you can take. We · study seven weeks in Sao Paulo Brazil, the world's third largestcity, where you will take three courses--Women's Contributions to Brazil's Economic Development, Field Re-. search in Brazil, and Portuguese If (Portuguese I, a language and cultural preparation for the term abroad, is required for Brazil and is offered Spring 1997). In Brazil, students I' · with Brazilian families. After seven weeks of studying and conducting re- search in Sao Paulo, we begin a three week study tour Brazil including four geographical areas-- Salvador City, heart and soul ofBrazil's African culture; the Pantanal re- gion, Brazil's untouchedtropical wetlands near Bolivia; Recife City in Brazil's impoverished Northeast; and northern ~ao Luis do Maranhao, site of rain forest, white dune beaches~ and the co Ionia! rubber culture. In the Pantanal we study ecology; in Salvador, Afri- can-Brazilian cultural syncretism; in Recife, women's work cooperatives, a half-way house for teen street prositutes, and human rights; in Sao Luis, the rainforest and colonial rubber culture. If you really want to expand your horizons and chal~ Jengeyourintellect, then Brazil is for you. Students from last year's term abroad willl be available to talk wit~ you. I inJerested in this tenn abroad opportunity, call Martha Huggins ( 6008) for an appointment or see Professor Thomas (Inter- national Programs, 6002). You might also contaCt students. who participated in the 1995 tenn abroad to Brazil, as they will be glad to talk with you. Contact Heather Buanno (So- ciology), Barbara Fulton (Math), Amy Herf(Sociology ), Ja- son Jennings (Africana Studies), or Liz Romig (Philosophy), All majors are invited to apply. The application deadline is February 3. You may pick up an application and a student q1.1estionnaire in theln- temational Programs Office, Humanities 2nd floor. < MAKE YOUR MEGA ~10VE. TODAY! the dutch hollow- restaurant'\-·- ___ _ Virtual Union is so mu.ch more than just a web site ... http://www .vu. union.edu If you are interested in being ~ member of this illustrious club, pick up an applicat~on in the. consultants office (Steinmetz Hall) . ·-· I ,, ._,_ ·,.,.

Cbart ... Toppe:rs A Quick Look at Wh:at's En.tertatning America {Week of January 13.-January 20) T()pFiveFilms Top .Five Album Sales Title Gross (in .mi'l1ions) $12.2 Gross to date Arti~t Ti-tle Label Trauma/Interscope Warner Bros. Capitol l. Beverly Hills Ninja 2. Metro 3. Evita 4.TheRellc 5. Jerry Maguire $U.4 $8:9· $7:9 $7.5 ToP Five TelevisiQn l?rograms · r;P - · · - - · Title l. Seinfeld 2.ER 3. TI1eNakedTruth 4. Friends 5. TheSingieq_yy26.9 Vfewers.(in millions) 37.3 35.9 29.9 29.6 4 Study Fall Term in Brazil Martha Huggins (Sociology) Director of Term Abroad to Brazil $23.1 $20D $102.8 Last week 1 2 Have you ever wanted to learn about human rights and women's contributions to economic development, and visit ~elatively untouched tropical wetlands, and become part of African heritage, and see tropical beaches, and conduct field research in a human rights organization, or in a children's street community, or on political theater, race relations, or women and work, and learn anew language? THEN YOU SHOULD STUDY FALL TERM IN BRAZIL! This is one of the most personally enriching and in- tellectually stimulating tenns abroad that you can take. We study seven weeks in Sao Paulo Brazil, the world's third largest city, where you wi II take three courses--Women's Contributions to Bnu:il's Economic Development, Field Re- search in Brazil, and Portuguese I I (Portuguese La language and cultural preparation for the term abroad, is required for Brazil and is offered Spring 19\l7). In Brazil, students live with Brazilian families. After seven weeks of studying and conducting re- search in Sao Paulo, we begin a three week study tour of Brazil including four geographical areas-- Salvador City, the heart and soul of Brazil's African culture; the Pantanal re- gion, Brazil's untouched tropical wetlands near Bolivia: Recife City in Brazil's impoverished Northeast; and northern Sao Luis do Maranhao, site of rain forest, white dune beaches, and the colonial rubber culture. In the Pantanal we study ecology; in Salvador, Afri- can-Brazilian cultural syncretism; in Recife, women's work cooperatives, a half-way house for teen street prositutes, and human rights: in Sao Luis. the rainforest and colonial rubber culture. If you really want to expand your horizons and chal- lenge your intellect, then Brazil is for you. Students from last year's term abroad will! be available to talk with you. If in):erested in this tenn abroad opportunity, call Martha Huggins (6008) for an appointment or see Professor Thomas (Inter- national Programs, 6002 ). You might also contact students who participated in the 1995 tenn abroad to Brazil, as they will be glad to talk with you. Contact Heather Buanno (So- ciology), Barbarafulton(Math), Amy Herf(Sociology), Ja- son Jennings (Africana Studies), or Liz Romig (Philosophy). All majors are invited to apply. The application deadline is February 3. You may pick up an application and a student questionnaire in the In- ternational Programs Office, Humanities 2nd floor. I. N~ Doubt 2. Soundtrack 3. Soundtrack 4. Cel.ineDion 5. SbLmdtrack Top-Five Video Rental$ Tragic Kingdom Evita Romeo and Juliet ralling·lnto You Space Jam 550 Music/Epic Warner/Sunset Title Distrl hutor Touchstone Last week 1. P11enomenon 2. A Time to Kill 3. TheRock 4. Tin Cup 5. K.ingpin . Warner Hollywood Warner MGM/UA 2 1 3 6 -A fJ information courtesy Entertainment Weekly MAKE YOUR MEGA ~10VE TODAY! --+the dutch hollow-- res tauran~------- Virtual Union is so much more than just a web site ... http://www.vu.union.edu If you are interested in being a member of this illustrious club, pick up an application in the consultants office (Steinmetz Hall) I ! l ' i

Global News · , 'QII~e Qh~urorO:ieuzis. • January 36, 1997 • .P~ge 13 , ' At\ • - ~ Global News Albright Takes Post as Secretary of State by Suzanne Dougherty Global New Editor ambassador to the Uni<ted N;:ttions. All presidential nominees to the cabinet must be a p- Madeline Albright took proved by the Senate before her position as Secretary of taking office. This is usually State on January 23 becom- a painless process, with the ing the first woman to hold only exceptions being those the position and the highest few nominees that are sur- r.an~ing woman official in rounded by controversy. American history. Nomi- The Senate met on January nated by President Clinton 8 for the an unlimited nu!'nber of op- portunities to act around the world, but we do not have unlimited resources, nor do we have unlimited respon- sibilities. We are not a char- ity or fire department.\ Albright's bi-partisan ap- peal was a substantial rea- son why she was able to fly through the confirmation a woman and was l1appy to be placing her in his cabinet. Clinton has expressed a de- sire to make his cabinet more diverse and representative of the nation. Shortly after becoming newly installed in her new position, Albright n1et with the press to outline her pri- orities over the upcoming months. the United States' relation- ship with China should be \multi-faceted\. She does not want to develop a rela- tionship with them that re- lies on only one issue. on December 5 of this past Albright con- year, Albright was easily firmation hear- approved by the Senate ear- ings. After lier last week. only a short Albright was born in time the Senate Czechoslovakia, but is rtow unanimously a naturalized United States c on f i r m e d Clinton has made it clear that her being female '' ... had nothing to do with her getting the job, o,ne way or the other.\ Some of the top goa Is for the nation's foreign policy are restoring stability in Europe and Asia. and. When questioned about Russia Albright stated that is very important that the nation maintain good relations with the country, despite our desire to extend NATO member- ship to the former Soviet states. Russia has expressed their unhappiness with this move, but had told us that they are \ ... committed to working this situation out.\ Albright also said that the State Department has had few problems communicat- ing with the country despite Boris Yeltsin's recent heart surgery. citizen. Her family fled the Albright 99-0. country from the Nazis and Standing in front of the Sen- Communists and their im- ate last week, Albright pending takeover whenshe thanked the senators for was only eleven years old. their speedy consideration She has a long, s11ccessful of her nomination. She also history working on foreign noted the need for strong policy and international af- leadership in this country to fairs. She received her doc- keep America at peace and torate from Columbia Uni- the nation's alliances strong. versity in Russian Studies. Albright has always been While studying there~ she known for her independent was mentored by Columbia and feisty nature. Many of professor and former n.a- her hawkish stands on tiona! security advisor Bosnia and NATO expan- Zbigniew Brzeziniski. She sian are popular among Re- eventually rose to the publicans. She has also been country's highest diplomatic· known to tout other Repub- post in 1993 as United ?tate~. lican~lik~. themes: \We have ··~~- ·7 ;:-' ..... ~w:-• ;. -·-·-·; ·~:-. -. \We see presidents rising on horseback, chopping wood. The notign that he doesn't have a minute to spare is not credible,\ Supreme Court Justice Antonin ~\'\\'~' in reference to the Paula Jones sexual harassm:ent suit against President Clinton. \I Robert J. Dole, do solemnly swear ... Uh, sorry Wrong speech,\ Bob Dole, in his address after Clinton awarded him with the Presidei1tial Medal of dom. ~ARNARD COLLEGE.~COLGA~ U~IVERSITY •• CORNELL UNIVERSITY HAMILTON COLLE<lE .. MANHA:TTAN COLLEGE.ST.lAWRENCE-UNIVERSITV •• UNION COLLEGE 1f IH m IP <E. w .... !Nmvr )f!J) J~ x IP ltD c R A t'll . OH OJ rM ID> iE IR <t~ll'U\ t!!J uA 1.r~ ~ .c a :r:: ~H:: ill IE D ,.u Cfo:r 1 o 11 Summer 1997 Student Research Opportunities A unique opportunity to gain research experience with a facuity mentor and work with st11dents from other colleges and universities at one of the following institutions: • Barnard College • Hamilton College • Colgate University • Ma11hatti~n College • Comell University • Saint Lawrence University • Unwn College 11-10 WEEK SUMMER PROGRAM $Z,OOO.OO STIPEND PLUS $SOO.OO'TRA VEL/HOUSING EXPENSES FOR AN APPLICA.TlON OR IiOR FURTHER Dli:TAILS, CONTACT \'OUR INSTITUTIONAL REPRESENTATIVE: ~N's OFF'tc_E, $·1 (\)_~ciENb_e:_& EM_GINE_I\RIN<>_·_x6233 Or call CORNELL UNIVERSITY 607·255·2110 . BARNARO\:OtlE<lE..COLGA\E UNlVERSITV.:CoRNElt UNIVERSITY ~AMILT(IN COLlEGE • .MANHATTAN COLLEGE •• Sr. LAWRENCE UNIVERSITY •. UNiON COLLEGE process this past week. Senator Jesse Helms (R- N.C.), the chair of the For- eign Relations Committee, had jurisdiction over Albright's confirmation hearing and expressed sup- port for her nomination throughout the hearing. There are many women's groups th·rilled by the Albright nomination. How- ever, Clinton has made it dear that her being female \ ... had nothing to do with her getting the job, one way or the other.\ He stated that he was proud that she was stopping the spread of weapons of mass destruc- tion. Other priorities set by Albright include creating an Asian~Pacific con1rnunity that cooperates on \shared economic interests and a common commitment to peace\ and paying more· at- tention to Latin America, South Asia, and Africa. Albright reiterated her stance on China during the press conference that she would \tell it like it is\ to China's leaders on human rights violations and on Hong Kong. She noted that One of Albright's first tasks as Secretary of State will be her upcoming trips to Europe and Asia next month. After that she will be touring the United States to press the administration's foreign policy stances. \We intend to schedule many events around the com1try; some speeches, some town meetings, some, simply dis- cussions.\ $200-500 WEEKLY Mailing phone cards. No experience necessary. For more information send a self-addressed stamped envelope to: Global Communication, P.O. Box 5670, Hollywood, FL 33083 YOU can Maximize YOUR Career Potential with Union's 5~Year MBA Greta August MBA in Accounting '96 Associate Price Waterhouse B()Ston, MA \Union's 5-Year MBA program gave me tlze opportunity to obtain my Master's degree and to secure a professional position in accounting a full year before graduation.\ For information call: 388-6239 ''>

i I l! :I I I I l ,, if I ) Global News Albright Takes Post as Secretary of State by Suzanne Dougherty Global New Editor ambassador to the United Nations. All presidential nominees to the cabinet must be ap- proved by the Senate before taking office. This is usually a painless process, with the only exceptions being those few nominees that are sur- rounded by controversy. The Senate met on January 8 for the an unlimited number of op- portunities to act around the world, but we do not have unlimited resources, nor do we have unlimited respon- sibilities. We are not a char- ity or fire department.\ Albright's bi-partisan ap- peal was a substantial rea- son why she was able to fly through the confirmation a woman and was happy to be placing her in his cabinet. Clinton has expressed a de- sire to make his cabinet more diverse and representative of the nation. Shortly after becoming newly installed in her new position, Albright met with the press to outline her pri- orities over the upcoming months. the United States' relation- ship with China should be \multi-faceted\. She does not want to develop a rela- tionship with them that re- lies on only one tssue Madeline Albright took her position as Secretary of State on J a.nuary 23 becom- ing the first woman to hold the position and the highest ran~ing woman official in American history. Nomi- nated by President Clinton on December 5 of this past year, Albright was easily approved by the Senate ear- lier last week. A !bright con- firmation hear- ings. After only a short time the Senate unanimously confirmed Clinton has made it clear that her Some of the top goals for the nation's foreign policy are restoring stability in When questioned about Russia Albright stated that is very important that the nation maintain good relations with the country, despite our desire to extend NATO member- ship to the former Soviet states. Russia has expressed their unhappiness with this move, but had told us that they are \ .. committed to working this Situation out.\ Albnght also said that the State Department has had few problems communicat- ing with the country despite Boris Yeltsin's recent !wart surgery. Albright was born in Czechoslovakia, but is now a naturalized United States citizen. Her family fled the country from the Nazis and Communists and their im- pending takeover when she was only eleven years old. She has a long, successful history working on foreign policy and international af- fairs. She received her doc- torate from Columbia Uni- versity in Russian Studies. While studying there, she was mcntored by Columbia professor and former na- tional security advisor Zbigniew Brzeziniski. She eventually rose to the country's highest diplomatic post in 1993 as United States being female \ ... had nothing to do with her getting the }ob, one way or the other.\ Albright 99-0. Standing in front of the Sen- ate last week, Albright thanked the senators for their speedy consideration of her nomination. She also noted the need for strong leadership in this country to keep America at peace and the nation's alliances strong. Albright has always been known for her independent and feisty nature. Many of her hawkish stands on Bosnia and NATO expan- sion are popular among Re- publicans. She has also been known to tout other Repub- lican-like themes: \We have \We see presidents rising on horseback, chopping fi wood. The notiqn that he doesn't have a minute to spare is not credible/' Supreme Court Justice Anton in Scalia, in reference to the Paulc1 Jones sl.'xual h.uassmL'nt suit filed against President Clinton. \I Robert J. Dole, do sokmnly swear ... Uh, sorry. Wrong speech,\ Bob Dole, in his cKldress c1fkr Presiden Clinton awarded him with the Presidential tv1l.'dal of Free- dom. BARNARDCOLLEGE .• t.OlGATE UMVIRSIH' .• fORNHl UI'\IIVER'iln t-IAMilTON COUEGE..MANHATTAN COLLEGLST. LAWRENCE UNI\'ERSlTY .. UMOr-.. ( OllEC.f T.l-1 E .P E w- [ lE YV '1 0 I~ ;~ .P I~ 0 c; I~ F. II\ Summer 1997 Student Research Opportunities A unique opportunity to gain research experience with a faculty mentor and work with students from other colleges and universities at one of the following institutions: • Barnard College • Hamilton College • Colgate University • Manhattan College • Cornell University • Saint IAwrmce Urzi•·ersity • Union College 8-10 WEEK SUMMER PROGRAM $2,000.00 STIPEND PLUS $500.00 TRAVEI./HOUSING EXPENSES FOR AN APPLICATION OR FOR FURTHER DETAILS, ('ONTM'T VOtiR INSTll'l'TIONAL RErRESENTA.TIVE: DEAN's OFFICE, S-1 00, SCIEI'-ICE C.. ENGINEERING~ x6233 Or call CORNELL UNIVERSITY 607-255-2710 DA.RNARO COLLEGE .. COLGATE UNJVERSITY~.CORNELL UNIVERSITY HAMILTON COltEGLMANHAITAN COLLEGE •• ST. LAWRiENCf UNIVERSITY •. UNIONCOLLEGE : --- ---~- ·--' process this past week. Senator Jesse Helms (R- N.C.), the chair of the For- eign Relations Committee, had jurisdiction over Albright's confirmation hearing and expressed sup- port for her nomination throughout the hearing. There are many women's groups thrilled by the Albright nomination. How- ever, Clinton has made it clear that her being female \ ... had nothing to do with her getting the job, one way or the other.\ He stated that he was proud that she was Europe and Asia and stopping the spread of weapons of mass destruc- tion. Other priorities set by Albright include creating an Asian-Pacific community that cooperates on \shared economic interests c1nd a common commitment to peace\ and paying more at- tention to La tin America, South Asia, and Africa. Albright reiterated her stance on China during the press CtH,ferL'nce that she would \tell it like it is\ to China's Je,Klers on human rights violc.ttions and on Hong Kong. She noted that One of Albright's first t,1sks as Secretary of Sta tl~ will be her upcoming trips to Europe and Asia next month. After that she \vill be touring the United States to press the administration's foreign policy stances. \WL' intend to schedule muny events around the countrv; some speeches, some tovvn meetings, some, simply dis- cussions.\ $200-500 WEEKLY Mailing phone cards. No experience necessary. For more information send a self-addressed stamped envelope to: Global Communication, P.O. Box 5670, Hollywood, FL 33083 YOU can Maximize YOUR Career Potential with Union's 5-Year MBA Greta August MBA in Accounting '96 Associate Price Waterhouse Boston, MA \Union's 5- Year MBA program gave me the opportunity to obtain my Master's degree and to secure a professional position in accounting a full year before graduation.\ For information call: 388-6239 I ll

,. f Page 14 • January 30, 1997 • 'Cfiq,e <1r:Unr:nrhien\'i£!i. -. ,__, ·~las~ifieds _\'lte 8141&~1ii~ ~&~- Blo~~ ···········-··-•• -- ---- ------ S.\Qy\.d. ··• I>e> t·our'f~~s~----•-•-----•-------•••----• -•-••••-·•--- • •, ,•, o.r • , • ... ' ~ · ,-, •'•• ,.,., ..... ,.,,.,., ••• ,,,.,..,._.,., •,-.,,.w.·,.,,~.o.,• '•• --~·-•'· ,,.,,. .• • .•.• ••••• .'.' ,,·,,~,,.,,,, •••. ,,~.-, .. ,, • ..,..-.r•,•,•,·,••,,,• -.•,•,•,·.,,· •• • •'· ,,...,..,,,,•, ··•'•\•'·····•.• ,-,,,., ... ,.,,.,,,-.,~.,,-,•,,•,\Y·~o•'•'•NU'o'••'•'••'o·'•'•._. •• -..-..• .. -.\-.•.-.._.,.,.,,.,,.,., • ..,.,., . .,.,.,,.,-.•,•.,o·•,,•,,\vo .,.,.,.,._,, • ._.,,.-.•,w,•.-.-..•.•,-.•,•,-.-.._._,._ ...... ..,,.,._._.,.,., ' ,,~p,,~~~'-l.'fe(~.:~G\P~ts. ·· · · -Jou'd· \~\Je.~of.f!:~i:Jr\ . · · \1\'> .ao\V\-= to -to;'le \\'e res-t of' · ··-- ·· ·· : .. ·;.· · · s.o ·httle···.t,i~·~···· ·· ................. · · · · ···~\o;rpeV\i\\~· ioi~oo ··p.ev\~i\s: · · ··· ·~e· s-:e·~~sfe~ to .. ·'c\(:)\'f6or. ~~~~~t-J.,~········· ........................... , .. ~ ... ~ .............. .. jo\Jr s~\...ool~o~or~ ~~ -\\e AU ~ ;forM, ~ .filii'\$ / . . ) \Tht\-t pile I$ snti!\!J l>isser. · · tt.e~-\ it<~porl'c\M: i\..il'\<j il\ · ·, · · ·· · ··· ~ .fr\V!Jtrt\tioW\. · · · · ·. · • · · • · · ( · \..u ..... 1\&'f?.. BIOGV..· e..O.r\ \..elp \/oiJ ·so,\le ti~ 'Jollr ~:~~~ 9 \.:t? · . .. ................... , . . ........ , ..... .. .......... ... . ... ~·· ._.... .. ol'\ . 'to,lees, so · e.ol\ :. : •.. . ·\' • ............................. , ..... - ... J. ·.• . . - ·~ ...... -.- .. --·-·~-·-·-·~-~.- .. - .. ~ ..... \ ...... - ,,• ··- .. ·' • · ' · • ••'' • • • · ·'·' .• •• ~~-· ~- • ···'•'•' -~·- •'• '· , .•• ~.-.· •. •' '•••'• ,,.-,- ... ,., -~·,,•,.·, ••'• .... •'• ,.,., • •'• ._ ... .- •..• ,...,.,•.•,.,• ,,.,,•.•,•,,•,-,,•,-,.•,•,•,•,• .-.-,.,.,.,, ,..,._.,.,·,~-,·,·,-,,·,-.·,•('.-.o·.-,., . ., .... ~.·- .-IJ,..,_.,.,._,,.,,,.,._., ,•,•.-. ·'·\ .. _ ·lt011 ~t~~'::\Je~-t ~~ -~· ······(I t\&~t stoa.: clo..!:~.s,.::~---5)-·*~~~\~1\~·01\·r-· • .. ~.~ ... ~~JtL-·- ~- . . .. • .for: o.J•>J•f19 .. ~1\i!-snjo'f$.,~-· ••• ~ ~s tL'/<>1-l!lot\-t . .file..~ .}_ · ;J~,~~~j:t;:J~e; · \ · · · ·· · · · · . .. r·· ·• .... ·-. ,. ,, .. • .. • • .•,• s;;;·~;~ ·;;····· ..... , ... ._ ~:~~=~ ;:;i~:\\o.t\ ·, W.W'-'••''•'• ·•·M~vN·;~ ~~:r'!u~ N>~ -· .•••• ~<!llr\._1\-iYI.'3S . . . . \..4~ ~ir -\\(l)(i!!S. . '(t:>\1 Mil!~ prepo.r-ec:\ '~>'I to ~o. . . 1\&~ Blot:.'t.. foil( t~ . . r\eNft\ .. : 'tJill ~II! iY\. .. . .... . Q,IJo.\ifiil!ci .. \.o.l\dS. . · l!t.;ECTRONIC FIL.NG . . . . . . . . . ... ... ......... . ' .......... ·-~ .... -- .. .... .. ........ ·-· ........................ ······ ...•........ ' ... . oi'\IV o.:t 1\&it Blot:.'t-. . . . . fS>ttrf .. '/04Jf. ff>CM\/ if\ '/t>Vf\ 't..t\MS FA\S.\f..... ... .. . . , ,., ---~.-.. ••• ••··•···· '\'' , ,,,, ,; , •• ,.· .• -,. '••'• ........ ,• .............. •,-.,•.-u,•,, •-'··· ' •.. •.· . , • , '• .- .• -••.• , •

Gamma Phi Beta Match Bids- You are an amazing group of young women and we are so psyched about all the fun times ahead!! You guys rockll -Love, The Sis .. ters ofGamma Ph iBeta To the Bothers of Chi Psi- Thanks for the party Saturday! ! We had a great time and can't wait to do it again.!! - Love The Sisters of Gamma Phi Beta. To Gabriella - Thanks for the French lesson. My tongue will never he the same, .. Rawson Congratulations to the Match Bids of Sigma D~lta Tau. - Love, the Sisters of SOT To Cora and Jen- You guys were awesome. Great job, Hove you. - Stephanie. To Kelly- I h()pel ivingwith Jtle is not that unbearable. Get well and get ready to party .. - Love, Y addy Roo Dog- I Iniss you! I need my late night talks again. Hurry back and I hope you are having a ball. -AD To Tashi- Hope you had a good weekend.· Have anawe&lmeweek and look forward to the' fun ahead. -Love,. Cathy .. Ani- YouAREthegteatestfriend! - Love you; Roomie . · ~ We are so excited to have you with us. - Love the girls ofDG Gilly- Congratson your new job. I am so excited for you, and no- body deserves it more. - Love, Ace To ail my brothers- Thanks for everything. I love you all. - Hoover Fourth Floor West Rock. I love you guys, -Love. Sara and Mike To Deb- Ciao Ragazza! My long lost friend in Wade Lupe .... l know you miss my sweet scent. - Love, Ballsack To Gine- Union isn't the same without you. We miss you Rat! - Karen and Lane To Ben, Chris(squared), Jamie- You lo0ked great in your hula skirts. -LovetheSistersofGamma Phi Beta To all my Delta Sisters- Keep your chins up! Those with good in- tentions always prevai:L - Love you aU, Kirsch- Hi ~ooh-I love you! Thatmakes you the lucky ()ne, Dear Heather- We miss you tons and tons. Tell Pedro we say hello. -Love, Karen, Lane, and Lauren' _ To Jq_- Hope you have a good To Maria, lny)ost.gQddess·in _ · week.~Etrt&S~a Greece- Take·aailatitage~'Ofyotli' · ·· _, · .· \\'\\' · ·· ~ · ·- : · time~ Union will he here waiting To Michelle- We all love you, so for you with open arms. -Love, it can never be the end of the Ballsack wotld. Don't forget to smile!! - Mom - l cannot wait to play with you. I hope you are having a good week. - Love, Friena Moxy&Ooga Lindsay and Jill - Hope you are not too black yet. - Love, Lauret1, Lane, and Kare11 Big Daddy- Just wanted to drop To Dougie- Can I drive your car? -Love,S To Deb, Suzanne, and Caroline- I heard Florence was screaming our names. Nanna made bongos last night. -Love, Cathy To ProtessorDudden- Thanks tor all your understanding through my difficlllttimes. -Cathy To Becca, Alison, Dawn,. Katie, Sieg~:\1, and Jess - Hope you are having fun, chicas! We miss you. - Love your Tri-delta sisters Maria - I mean, can you come home already? Stay away from all those stray dogs. - Love, Lauren Lane - You are the best; I cannot wait to finally go home for the weekend. - Love, Steph To Lauren and Deb- We did it! Thanks for everything. - Love, Sara To Jester- Nice shoes! -s & E To Kirsten - My adopted Sis. Lo:veAiways, Kate To .limberly- We hope you don't have to get naked. - Love, Gini anciMelisi To Ace-'!love you. Can't waitto be your roommate. - Love that dork from Freshmanyear To Katie; Blythe, Kat, and Murph ~ Hope you're having an amazing time in Greece. We all miss you very much. - LoveyourTri-Delta Sisters Stephanie- Computers suck! Don't worry about them freezing all the time. We can always threw them outthe window. - Concordy To Shoremasand Salzi- I miss you and hop.e yoLL are having fun whHe we, are fr~ezing in Schenectady..•-~ Love,.Lauren you a little note to let you know! · . Chrrs-thai:lksfordealing last week wasthinki11gofyou. - Duckie and forhelpingme.-.Jon ... ' . ~ \ . .\- ' To the Match BidsofDeltaGamma . . . To Kate- Friends Forever. -Chic rm CDC:-··Updates ••• . Thinking About a Theme House for . Next Year? CometourThurston House on during the following dates: 1 , Jan. 29 @ 7:.00:· Open House ,. f()r.Thtlrston Applicants·· J~n: 2'9@ 7:30: Glimpses of . ONrCAMPtJS,B£.CR~G~-: .,_ . : . , · ·-. the< Silk Rol;ld (t~lk &slidHi 6-y, A select iu11nbei' of.comparues liave E.X'reNDSo•:;theit'resul!te· · Prof Esiml.gh M~tahar) ' · · deadline for on-campus recruiting. To view the list and deadlines . 6 - 0 -'0 0 -·- . · · 1: v ·· · \' . . Feb. 5 @ :: : ump· mgs:, come to the Career Center as soon as possibl~;~'~··... ·. . , < · ···:: 1 ~ . ,; . Doubje F!\\ature: fampopb; Eat;, ·- ·- •· .~· · ·. ·• ·' ',; : Drin'k..:Man- Worn an; Chinese Prudential Preferred Fb.1andal Services in Albany win be mterviewit.tg. on-'batnpus: l::~briulcy 14. · Ail students interes~d .. . . in saleslsales.managemenure ~ncol\raged tsH\PP!Y.• .. Resumes due at the CDC, Februacy ~i~;5y ~pm. y-. _ .::: · · _ :• '': 1)\:• ~. · ~ , :-' - :., • .:· :~ II'• ;. ; Re~Jvme Deacillne .iQ~ sev~9i(l.~~~~~·li.8jerral compa- .li~ozi :: Feb.JO@ 3:30: Chinese New Year Tea Celebration (at the Nott ., Memorial) · Feb.' t :2@ 7:30: Popular Cui- · • ture in Japan: Feedback from the niesby5pm·~nfiid~/iln(Jl.-- • ;:-~·,· _ ... , ... ·~ · ·• Japam Ten\fl (Prof; Madancy), . · Feb. 19@ 7:30: Staying Thai: · \\ ·· · -.,. · · -- . . . . • How·I Acculturated to Life in . l.Ad~Jnt~lor fl Srnmer lntemsh1pi Stop in the Career Center the U.S. (by Prof. Y aisawamg) 1111d check out the Intemship Binders or make an a.ppoinunent with Feb. 26.@ 7:30: Korean-Ameri- a counselor to discuss your career interests. New Internships are cans and U.S. National Identity added weekly. ~ (Prof. Hyungji Park) DrCJp In Hours: Monday - Friday S-5pm TIIJrd Floor, Old Chapel 388-6176 www.unio~.edu/ career/CDC/CDC.html Mar.5@6:00: Sushi at Six: Cu- linary Instruction (by Prof. Gilman) Mar. 12@ 7:30: Growing up ·Chinese in Japan (Prof. Khan) lE.F. PEADLINE The deadline tor proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in · two categories - student-initiated research projects and \educa- tionally innovative pr~jects\ is February 20, 1997. Proposals tor student-initiateli research projects must have the writ- ten approval of a faculty a<.lvisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals shotitd be submitted to the Dean's Office (S 100, Science & Engineering Building) on fonns available there. Similarly, members of the Coli ege community who J:tave \education- . ally innovative\ proposals sl'tould submit them to the same office on tonus available there. Forms for Faculty ResearchFro_jects are also available in the Dean's Oftice(S 100). Guidelines with respect to the I. E.F. are available in the Dean's0f- t1ce. Inquiries about I. E. F., the guide I ines, or the proposal dead I ine should be directed to Margaret Dalton, Adm illistrative Assistant to the Dean of Arts & Sciences. When preparing budgets, please . · remember that per diem rates a:re normally limited to $50-85 per day. · Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. Students who arc planning t() do interviews must indicate that ar- rangeme1lts have alr.·ady bee11 made. If your research includes work with human subjects, tlleti the proposal must have preliminary · approval from the Human Sttb.iects Research Committee before it can be flllided by the Subcom1cil on Undergraduate Research. **********************'**'************************ FACULTY RESEARCH DEADLINE The Faculty Development Committee is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities. Applications and guidelines arc available in Dean Sorum's Otllce (S~ 100, S&E). The . . deadline tor submission of proposals is February 20, 1997. Questions concerning the faculty Research Fund should be di- rected to Dean Sorum. When p.reparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates arc normally I imitcd to $50-85 per day. Transpor- tation should also reflect thoe !best rates available. lfyour research includes work with human subjects, then the pro- posals must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded hy the Faculty Devel- opmentCommittee. Desert Rose Consignment Shop 1726 Union Street, Niskayuna Quality ClothiRg at a Fraction of the Original Price. 20% Off with Student ID (Not to be used with any other discount) M€MO~Y TRICI<~ A. DRAI'1A WITH A )€N'E Or HUMOR WRITT€N AJ'I!) PE:RFORM€1> BV, MARGA GOM€Z SArU!I!AY, FEBRUARY 8 8:()0 P.M. : .lllD tHAPtL - Rrtoj:)/ion Will follow e males/females The college Netw()rk of the Capital region http:/ /www .. cl'isny.org/,..,' singles ....... ,- .'

Page 16 • Januat~y 30, 1997 • 'QI.l ~ illnmorDi~usis · - · ·_ · ~ · Spoats NESCAC Rumors Denied by Jody Mousseau Staff Writer In the past two weeks, concerns have been addressed regarding a rumor originating from an unveri- fied source that Union College may rejoin the New England Small College Athletic Confer- ence. Speculation raised issues regarding the future of the Union sports programs, including the men's Division I hockey pmgram and how joining NESCAC would affect the status of the programs. Union was one of the founding members of NESCAC in 1970. Union left the conference in 1977 after a hockey scandal involving the alteration of the transcript of an incoming hockey player and was replaced in the conference by Connecticut College. The present members of NESCAC are Amherst, Bates, Bowdoin, Colby, Connecticut, Hamilton, Middlebury, Trinity, Tufts, Wesleyan, and Williams. According to President HuH and Dick Sakal a, Director of Athlet- ics, Union is not presently con- sidering rejoining the New En- gland Small Co.Jiege Athletic Conference. Presently, Union is a member ofthe UCAA, the Upstate Colle- giate Athletic Association. Hl.dl . was unsure of the origin oftheru- mor that Union was considering rejoining NESCAC, but assured theConcordiensisthat Union was not planning on rejoining NESCAC. Hull denies speaking to the col- lege presidents of the NESCAC teams regarding Union's admois- sion to the conference. \We're not joining NESCAC,\ com- mented Hull. \Union is always looking at a whole range of op~ tions and clearly one ofthe things that we originally were a part of beca11se it made a lot of sense was . NESCAC. It was the best smaH schools in the Northeast, just as we are one of the best small schools in the Northeast, and it was the proper association for us. But we are not joining, and ttiere is no indication that NESCAC is going to expand beyond eleven schools.\ Sakata offered a similar per- spective tegar.dingthe rumor th&t Unionhascons;ideredre- joining NESCAC. \There is no substance to th~t [rumor] at all We've never made re- application to that conference. Even if we did apply, they'r.e not even considering member- ship ... { don'tthirtk a year goes by wheri ·we don't talk about differ~nt conferences.\ The q·uestion of whether or not Union would join NESC:AC if invited by th~ conference-was not address~d. · However, HuH hashurietltl:!§. · ~ -- \- riJmQr that Union CollegeJ'n;g.y join the Northeast SmaJi:¢~1-::. Le~~· Athletic Confere.nce. A.c.cording to H\tU and Sakala Union is not consid- . , . ering removing--their member- ship from.the UCAA to seek membership with,NESCAC. ~\:' :·- . ·Sports Se.ction .Retro Ad Who says that athletes have to endorse quality products? Below are three· baseball legends sUpporting a wonderful product that boas-ts the' slogan ' 11 ·• · \notacoughinacarload.\ . '· .. r This ad originaly appeared in the October 18, 1923 issue of tizeConc~rdfinsls: .· Keep reading for more enjoyable ads in the new addition tG our 1 spprts· family.,.,, oN THE EVE OF THE WoRLD's SERIES Three- ~Triu-mphant ,.¥ank,ees,: conduct the Blindfold test ... and MILLER HuGGINS picks OLD GOLD The Balle and um here will tell you that there is onl:-· one way to choose a pitcher ••. and that's to send him into the hox and let him twirl a few innings. So the best way to choose a ciga- rette is to put them all through their paces in the blindfold test. In the test I have just made, Ow GoLD played right into my mitt. Its :r.ippy ll>~vor and mellow smoothness cnuldn'l be touched by the other three brands. cr. Lorillu4 Co., ..... 11110 M e.de fro CD the fteMt·J~Aon of rhe ttkca /'ldNI LOU GEHRIG (lftifUJ:S' I• tlr1 ltll) MILLRR HUGGINS (arA:• Mlidr t#r,.t~JtJ lnthedrf:!ssintf room ar N•via Field in. Detroit. Re~be.{{uth and Lou Gehrlf «••e the hlindfold cigarcEIG test tO Menater Miller }fu~tins. The C!tm:Otas Y •nkec pdot was •tkcd·llo.smoke eftch·of the four leadinj brands •. deannA his uue with eoU'ee bee ween smolt.es. Only oM tJUeltioo W&:l ukcd, \wbfc:b ooc do you like bC5t? II SMOOTHER AND BETTER -\NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD\ We Care About U Schenectady wants you! Grab a cup of coffee and meet the van in the College Center circle at 9:00A.M. playstation, saturn, sega,. snes gaines&systems. movies & shao/inlkung fu movies . -· . compact discs,live shows, cassetles, vinyl/p's, !2\ singles, cfj tapes also vinyllp 's, l2'\ singles & accesories all at the be:\·t pric_es! WheR I hear the music, it reminds me of my grandmother. I remember th~ way she'd make ~e feet. secure. · I want that same security when I invest my money.· Ttiafs why r decided on U.S. Savings Bonds.· I like knowing tliings ~e whl:lte:·I-put ? ::. them, and that they'll stay there. Savings Bonds are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. And my Payroll Savings Plan lets me save something each payday. Ask your employer or hanker about savinR with U.S. Savings Bonds, For all the right reasons. A public 8ervice of this newspaper Can you write better than this? Come to The Concordiensis meetings every Thursday at 6:45P.M. in room 303 of the College Centet

NESCAC Rumors Denied by Jody M()usseau Staff Writer In the past two weeks, concerns have been addressed regarding a rumor originating from an unveri- fied source that Union College may rejoin the New England Small College Athletic Confer- ence Speculation raised issues regarding the future ofthe Union sports programs, including the men's Division I hockey program and how joining NESCAC would affect the status of the programs. Union was one of the founding members of NL::SCA C in 1970 Union lett the conference in 1977 after a hockey scandal involving the alteration of the transcript of an incoming hockey player and was replaced in the conference by Connecticut College The present members of NESCAC arc Amherst, Dates. Bowdoin, Colhy, Connecticut Hamilton, Middlebury, Tnmty, Tufts, Wesleyan. and Williams. Accordmg to President I lull and Dick Sakal a. Director of Athlct- ic.:s, Union is not presently con- sidering rejoining the New En- gland Small College Athletic Conference. Presently, Union is a member ofthe UCAA, the Upstate Colle- giate Athl:etic Association. Hull was unsure o fthe origin of the ru- mor that Union was considering rejoining NESCAC, but assured the Concordiensis that Union was not planning on rejoining NESCAC I lull denies speaking to the col- lege presidents of the NESCAC teams regarding Union· s admis- sion to the conference ··we're not join mg NESCAC,\ com- mented l!ull \Union is always luoking at a whole range of op- tions and clearly one ofthe things that we originally were a part of hecause it made a lot of sense was NESCAC It was the best small schools in the Northeast just as \Ve arc one of the best small schools 111 the Northeast, and it was the proper association tor us. 13ut v,e arc not joining, and there is no indication that NESCAC is going to expand beyond eleven schools.'\ Sakala offered a simi I ar per- spective regarding the rumor that Union has considered re- joining NESCAC. \There is no substance to that [rumor] at all. We've never made re- application to that conference. Even if we did apply, they're not even considering member- ship I don't think a year goes by when we don't talk about different conferences.\' The question of whether or not Union would join NESCAC if invited by the conference was not addressed. I lowe vee I lull has buried the rumor that Union College may join the Northeast Small Col- lege Athletic Conference According to Hull and Sakala, Union is not consid- ering removing their member- ship from the UCAA to seek membership with NESCAC. Sports Section Retro Ad Who says that athletes have to endorse quality products? Below are three hasehall legends surporting a wonderful product that boasts the slogan \not a cough in a carload.\ This aJ origi naly appeared in the Octohcr 18. 1923 issue of The Concortfiensis. Keep reading for more enjoyable ads in the new addition to our sports family. ON THE EVE 01' THE WoRLD'S SERIES Three Triulllphant Yankees conduct the Blindfold test ... and MILLER HuGGINs picks OLD GOLD The Babe and Lou here will tell you that there is onlv nne way to choose a pitcher ... and that's to send ~im into the hox and let him twirl a few mnin~s. So the best wa-y to choose a cigii.· retle is to put them. all through their pnces in the blindfold test. In the test I have just made, Ot.n (,uLD played rig~t into my mitt. Its 1:1ppy Jlavur and mellow smoothness cnuldn't be louc·hed by the other three brands. c r l..otlll•rd Co .• l:.ll. 1160 ~hde I rom the lreart•l.ral7tl o( the tDbocco fl/cuct LOU GEIIRIG ( EmiJitSJ' ,. Jft, lt~l) MILLER HUGGINS ( rtl'Ao m~Jde the UJI) In the dressing room at Navin Field in Detroit, Hahe l{lJth and Lou Gehrit: gave rbe hhndfold r:1~arct1o test tO M•nllger \-Iiiler Hu~ttns. The famoua Yankee palo& WIU liillkc:d tu 5moke CII.Cb of tbc four leading bnnds, clearing his laUe with coffee between smoke!. On.ly one que~tioo WC:i u.kcd, '\wbu:b ooc do ytJu hkc best?\ SMOOTHER AND BETTER- \NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD\ We Care About U Schenectady wants you! Grab a cup of coffee and meet the van in the College Center circle at 9.·00 A.M. playstation, saturn, ~-.·ega, snes games&systems.movies & shtwlinlkung.fu movies compact discs, live shows, casseJtes, vinyl lp's, 12 \singles (!i tapes alsv vinyllp's, 12\ .\·ingles & uccesvries all at the hest prices! When I hea,r the music, j.t reminds me of my grandmother. I remember l.he way sile' d make me feel secure. I want that same security when I invest my money. That's why I decided on U.S. Savings Bonds. I like knowing things are where I put them. and that they'll stay there. Savings Bonds are backed by the full faith and credit of the Unite<l States. And my Payroll Savings Plan Jets me save something each payday. Ask your employer or banker about sat•in,g with U.S. Savings Bonds. For all the ri!!,ht reasons. A puhlic sen ice of thi< new<paper Can you write better titan this? Come to The Concordiensis meetings every Thursday at 6:45 P.M .. in room 303 ~Jjlhe College Center

Sports . ·. 'illlfc <!Iom:oroicnsis • January 30, 1997 •· Page 17 Tide Turns Upward For Men's Basketball by Frank Rossi Staff Writer Put a hold on the eulogy. The Union College Shooting Dutch- men are alive and well after their first weekend sweep in over a sea- son. In exciting fashion, the Dutchmen squeaked out a 69-67 victory on Friday night against a larger RPI team, and they pum- meled the Skidmore Thorough- ··bredsonSaturday, 89-72. Before Friday night, the Dutclimen were outscored in their last five games by a total score of 198~291. Snapping the five-game losing streak would be tough, as senior Shola Richards did not make the trip to Troy due to an unspecified medical reason. The Dutchmen stayed focused throughout the first half, as they outscored the Engineers 40-36. In the second half, neither team could dominate the game, but Union remained in the lead for most of the half. With less than a minute left, Union led RPI67-64, but Rob TeCarr's inissed free throw ended up in the hands of RPI. The Engineers were able to convert a three-pointer, with ten seconds left, to tie the game. Af- ter both coaches call~ci a time-out, Unien freshman\guard Zena Woldeyesus drove the lane and put up a shot in traffic which fell in, giving the Dutchmen a 69 ... 67 lead. The clock .tP1Y\nnrari with one second left, and RPI was able to inbound the ball to their threeo;.point line. RPI's J;ason ?'oselovichtook the ball, dribbled, and shot a good three-pointer, but the referee stated that the dock sl1ould have h. it O:OObefore h.i,s shot and ruled that the shot came af: ter the buzzer. W11.enasked 22 points and ten rebounds, hut he a:lso added a technical foul, which took away RPl's momen- tum afterUnion vyas charged with an intentional foul. The win gave Union its f1rst UCAA win ofthe Union scored 50 points after one half. Union led 50-34 at half- time, and the Thoroughbreds could never gallop into the lead down the stretch; The Dutchmen's 89-72 victory represented the h.ighest output by the Dutch- lnen this sea- son and was enhanced by excellent three- vvhat he was pointshooting. thinking when For. the week- he shot the end. the Dutch- g2rne-winning men shot 20 for b a s ·k e t , 42 in three- Wold'eyesus, poi.nters, in- wlw had nine chtding nine p<linfs for the for 1 9 by Dutchmen, TeCarr. Heled said, \I just the team with threw it up.\ 22 points and Major con- ten rebounds trihutors for Saturday. Rob tb:e. Dutchmen G roelz (21 i11duded Rob points, and a Gro.elz, who team-leading had 18 points average of13 .1 (15.inthefirst points per half) and six game) and rebounds, Z e n a D- o y- i ·n Woldeyesus Richards, who Rob TeCarra11d Doy;,, Riclrards lead tlte way. (File Pltoto) ( 19 points) ·led th.e team with 19 points and season. each shot eight for 14 overall. as 13 rebounds, and Rob TeCarr, Saturday, the Dutchmen faced the Dutchmen combined for 55% who had 16 points. On the week- a young Skidmore Thoroughbred field-goal shooting. T.C. end, Doyin Richards collected 19 team. Last time the teams played Coleman led Skidmore with 22 important' rebounds for the against each other, Skidmorekep~ points, but he also led his team Dutchmen Union from breaking 50 points. with five turnovers. Head Coach This season, the scene aS Bob Montana is happy with his team, but he realizes they have a long road ahead of them. \Two wins doesn't make a season. We have a long way to go.\ The Dutchmen (4-10, 2-2 UCAA) played excellent defense, com- bining for 18 ~teals on the week- end. Montana said, \We did a much better job in terms of our overall defensive effort. From an offensive standpoint, we're· get- ting closer to the things we need to do, as our execution was much better.\ Things do not get easier for the Dutchmen this weekend, as they play at home against Hamilton, a team which is ranked in the re~ gion, on Friday night, and as they play Hobart, a team which was ranked in the pre-season but which is now under the .500 mark due to their rough schedule. Coach Montana is proud of his team, as he stated, 'The kids have worked hard all season. They've accepted the challenges and met them head on,\ but he sees an- other obstacle in Hamilton and Hobart, especially with Hobart's inside game. There is currently no word on whether Shola Richards, twin ofDoyin, will miss the next weekend. The Dutchmen's defense will be put to the ultimate test this weekend. but tor the. first time since Christmas break. the Dutch- men get a week to prepare for their next games. The Dutchmen face Hamilton Friday at 8 p.m. and Hobart Saturday at 6 p.m. Swimming Continued from page 20 last year, at which the women's team defeated Middlebury by only one point, the Middlebury team came back looking for re- venge. The Dutchwomen fought hard against their 30 some female swimmers, but turned up a J,ittle ''·~'\\·\'\'$'! short in the end with Ill points to their 127. The women had many very impressive races, in- cludil,1g a personal best, a school record, and a National B-cut qualifying time by senior Jackie Crane in the 200 freestyle. Jun- ior Meg McCarthy swam amaz- ingly, winning the 200 LM , the 200 fly, and the 200 breaststroke, ,'!i;'fl¥,;'i'f$.j~'.:-~:·~'\'~~<iJ bringing in many points for the . ~' ''~':cge:st;za~Jeff£~f'; ,;\ i'·!t ,.,J<ti\\\!!f::;i;~;W:~:; r'·;~i;?t\fr!,;;~~~~~1j._4c;ci~..;irt'c,,.,~fii,.<_i>\';!~i')!'ili!JJI,)!\i:-,; ';''\f'''. ''''· team. Meg is on her way to the National meet in March, and she \vill definitely he making huge waves there. Heather Weisenfluh stood up to her reputation by win- n ingthc three meter diving Clarkson ··'~-:: ''Skitf:.m'of'e:·.-~- : . ,<:RJ>r .. HamHtbfl o'ti !.f·-~. l,n· i•h'ii~··V ~;,,,. ·\V· .fVU(·~:i·. .I unior Kelly Monahan felt that the team did well, despite being outnumbered. \Even though their ,'Jii!Fi,;::;.';%'1 numbers outweighed ours, and in the end they came out on top, it docs not dim in ish the talent and effort put forth by our team. Their sheer numbers showed that they were back for revenge, and they meant business. As they walked into the pool, the people just kept spilling into the pool as if they would never end. When it did, the total number of the men and women was 65, a mete army com- pared to our 45. Both teams swam the competition, and the times show the effort.\ The men easily beat Middlebury 147 to l03, and Mike \umpilreys pushes away from tlte blocks. (Laurie Kirscimer I TC) many of them swam their pet- On Saturday, Unionrecognized sonalbesttimes . .TeffHuerleonce the nine seni.ors, Mike again captured the 200 freestyle Humphreys, Kevin Makarowski, and the 100 freestyle events, Steve Potenza, Than Stuntz, along with other first place races Heather Kanser, Alyson McKee, by Mi-ke Humphreys, K.evin Jackie Crane, Cece Buchanan, Makarowski, Than Stuntz, and andJen Borey, who have all given Mark Anderson. Brian Field their time and hard work to the placed in the diving. team over the past four years. ...

Tide Turns Upward For Men's Basketball by Frank Rossi Staff Writer Put a hold on the eulogy. The Union College Shooting Dutch- Inen are alive and well after their first weekend sweep in over a sea- son. In exciting fashion, the Dutchmen squeaked out a 69-6 7 victory on Friday ni·ght against a larger RPI team, and they pum- meled the Skidmore Thorough- . breds on Saturday, 89-72. Before Friday night, the Dutchmen were outscored in their last five games by a total score of 398-291. Snapping the five-game losing streak would be tough, as senior Shola Richards did not make the trip to Troy due to an unspecified medical reason. The Dutchmen stayed focused throughout the first half, as they outscored the Engineers40-36. In the second half, neither team could dominate the game, but Union remained in the lead for most of the half. With less than a minute left, Union led RPI 67-64, but Rob TeCarr's missed free throw ended up in the hands of RPI. The Engineers were able to convert a three-pointer, with ten seconds left, to tie the game. Af- ter both coaches called a time-out, Union freshman· guard Zena Woldeyesus drove the Jane and put up a shot in traffic which fell in, giving the Dutchmen a 69-67 lead. The clock temporarily stopped witla one second left, and RPI was able to inbound the ball to their three:point line. RPI's Jason Poselovich took the ball, dribbled, a11d shot a good three-pointer, but the referee stated that the clock should have hit 0:00 before his shot and ruied that the shot came af- ter the buzzer. When asked what he was thinking when he shot the 22 points and ten rebounds, but he also added a technical foul, which took away RPI's momen- tum after Union was charged with an intentional foul. The win gave Union its first UCAA win of the Union scored 50 points after one half Union led 50-34 at half- time, and the Thoroughbreds could never gallop into the lead down the stretch. The Dutchmen's 89-72 victory represented the highest output hy the Dutch- men this sea- son and was enhanced hy excellent three- point shooting. For the week- end, the Dutch- game-winning men shot 20 for b a s k e t , 42 in three- Woldeyesus, pointers, in- who ]~ad nine eluding nine points for the for I 9 hy DLttchmen, TeCarr Heled said, \I just the team with threw it up.\ 22 points and Major con- ten rehoLJnds tributors for Saturday. Rob the Dutchmen Groelz (21 included Rob points, and a Groelz, who .JI team-leading had 18 points ·-\~--- averageof13.1 (15 in the first points per hal f) and six game) and rebounds, Z e n a D o y i n Woldeyesus Richards, who Rob TeCarr alld Doyiu Richards lead tile way. (File Photo) ( I 9 points) led the team with 19 points and season. each shot eight for 14 overall, as 13 rebounds, and Rob TeCarr, Saturday, the Dutchmen faced the Dutchmen combined tor 55% wl1ohad 16 points. On the week- a young Skidmore Thoroughbred field-goal shooting T C end, Doyin Richards collected I 9 team. Lasttime the teams played Coleman led Skidmore with 22 important rebounds for the against each other, Skidmore kept points, but he also led his team Dt1tchmen Union from breaking 50 points. with five turnovers. Head Coach TI1e Engineers' Poselovich had This season, the scene changed as Bob Montana is happy with his team, but he realizes they have a long road ahead of them ·'Two wins doesn't make a season We have a long way to go.\ The Dutchmen (4-10, 2-2 UCAA) played excellent defense, com- bining for 18 steals on the week- end. Montana said, \We did a much better job in terms or our overall defensive effort. From an offensive standpoint, we're get- ting closer to the things we need to do, as our execution was much better.\ Things do not get easier for the Dutchmen this weekend, as they play at home against I Iamilton, a team which is ranked in the re- gion, on Friday night, and as they play Hobart, a team which was ranked in the pre-season but which is now under the 500 mark due to their rough schedule Coach Montana Is proud of his team, as he stated, \The kids have worked hard all season They've accepted the challenges and met them head on,\ but he sees an- other obstacle in Hamilton and Hobart, especially with Hobart's inside game_ There is currently no word on whether Shola Richards, twin ofDoyin, will miss the next weekend. The Dutchmen's defense will be put to the ultimate test this weekend .. hut for the first time since Christmas break, the Dutch- men get a week to prepare for their next games. The Dutchmen face Hamilton Friday at 8 p.m and Hobart Saturday at 6 p.m _ <- ,. \~ :.trCAA.i'-&.;E,c-~c·.,·update Swimming Continued from page 20 Men's Basketball_ Team Overall UCAA Won Lost Won Lost St. Lawrence 12 2 4 0 Hamilton 8 3 4 I Clarkson 6 7 2 2 Union 4 ~~ 2 2 Hobart 4 9 2 3 Skidmore 3 l() 0 3 RPI 2 11 0 3 Hon()r Roll Rob TeCarr (Jt., G, Beford Hills, NY) S.lmt 49% from the floor (including 50% from behind the. three-point arc) and averaged 17 J ppg as the Dutchmen picked up their first two conf¢rence wins of the season, d~feating RPI and Skidmore. Women's Basketball Team Overall UCAA Won Lost W()n Lost William Smith 13 0 5 0 St. Lawrence 8 5 3 1 Clarkson 7 5 2 2 Skidn1ore 6 ~· 2 2 RPI 6 '7 2 2 Hamilton 4 10 l 4 Uni.on 3 tO () 4 ECAC Hot;key Standings Leag11e Only Overall School GP W-L.:T Pts GF GA W~L·T Princeton 13 8~4-l 17 46 36 13-5-2 Clarkson 12 8-4~0 16 54 34 15-7-0 Cornell 12 7-3-2 16 40 34 10-5-4 RPl 12 7:..3~2 16 43 40 l2~ 7-3. Vermont 12 7-4-1 15 36 32 15.-6~1 Harvard 14 6-6-2 14 38 38 7-9-/,. Colgate. 12 6-5-1 13. 39 35 11··9-t Union 13 5~6-2 12 35 JS ll-~-2 Drtmth. 12 4--7-1 9 44 51 9-9-l Yale 12 3-7:..2 8 38 50 1·11-2 St. Lrnce 12 3-7-2 8 41 52 R-14-1 Brown 13 2-10-2 5 46 6{) 5-13-2 last year, at which the women's team defeated Middlebury hy only one point, the Middlebury team came back looking for re- venge The Dutchwomen fought hard against their 30 some female swimmers, hut turned up a little short in the end with I II points to their 127 The women had . . . many very nnpress1vc races. m- cluding a personal best, a school record, and a National B-cut qualifying time by senior Jackie Crane in the 200 freestyle .Jun- ior Meg McCarthy S\'l.'am amaz- ingly .. winning the 200 IM .. the 200 t1y, and the 200 breaststroke .. bringing in many points for the team Meg is on her way to the National meet in March .. and she vvill definitely he making huge wa vcs there I leather Weisenfluh :;tood up to her reputation by win- ning the three meter diving .Junior Kelly Monahan felt that the team did \Vell, despite being outnumbered \Even though their numbers outweighed ours. and in the end they came out on top, it docs not diminish the talent and et1ort put forth by our team. Their sheer numbers showed that they ·. were back for revenge, and they meant business As they walked into the pool, the people just kept spilling into the pool as if they would never end When it did, the total number ofthe men and women was65, amereanny com- pared to our 45 Both teams swam the competition, and the ·. times show the effort\ The men easily beat Middlebury 147 to 103, and Mike Humphreys pushes away from the blocks. (LatJrie Kirsclt11er I TC) many of them S\vam their per- On Saturday. Union rccogn1t.cd sonal besttimes .leffHuerlc once the nine seniors. Mi kc again captured the 200 freestyle Humphreys. Kevin Makan.l\\ski. and the 100 freestyle events.. Steve Potenza, Than StuntL. along with other first place races I leather Kanser, Alyson McKee. by Mike Humphreys.. Kevin .Jack1e Crane. Ccce Buchanan. Makarowski. Than Stuntz, and and Jen Borey. who hm.c all given Mark Anderson. Brian Field their time and hard work to the placed in the diving team over the past four years

Page l8 • Jimuary 30,_· 1997 • 'ill'Jp~ illoncor.Oi,.:ttsis . · · · Spotts Lady Cager.s Continue Downfall on the Roa;d Track Prep.ares Women's Basketball at 3-10 by Jody Mosseau Staff Writer The Dutchwomen basketball team continued their skid last weekend on a mini road trip to R.P.L and Skidmore College. Af- terthedustcleared, the women's record stood at 3-10 overall, and 0-4 in the UCAA. The ~ Dutchwomen feU to R.P.I. 73-58 on Friday and lost to Skidmore on Saturday 78-49. Amy Hitz and Leah Oliveri car- ried the brunt of the scoring for Union, Hitz pouring in I 8 while Oliveri contributed with I 7. The Dutchwomen shot 62% from the line, going 18-29. Union also went 0-5 from the three-point line, with Mary Shultz. missing all three of her attempts. Shultz did, however, shoot the best from the charity stripe. She hit all 5 from the line.· Amy Dougherty regis- tered ten rebounds for the falter- ingwotnen 'steam, and Hitz came in with seven. The Dutchwomen did not shoot weN from the floor; as the score would iridicate. 'In the first halt: they shot 34%, hitting I I out of 32. In tbe second, they converted on nine of their 24 attempts;good .M ~ for 38%. The bright spof for the womeh is that they committed lt~~stumovers than did ·R.P.I. (15.: 19)and had nine steals. 011 Saturday, the women trav- eled to Saratoga Springs to battle by Jason Everett Staff Writer Skidmore College. The Afterhaving.thispastweekend Dutch women lost 78-49 due to a · off from competition, the 1nen' s lack ·()f offense. No player scored .: and women'strack teams resume in double figures, and they com- · the season ,this Sunday at RPI in 111itted 33 turnovers. Union shet -the Capital District Champion- 3D% from the floor, going20•65, ships. Despite Fhe fact that both Hitz and Shira Ackerman paced the men and the women lost in the D utchwomen offens.e, with their respective season opening eight points apiece. dual meets against Hamilton, both Turnovers have hurt the Lady .. teams should (an~ better with the Cagers all season, but none more . \invitational scoripg\ in this com- then thisgame. Uniortrnorethan · ing meet. Thi~ is because the doubled Skidmore in the tumover Union squad will not have to con- count. The Dutchwomen were cern itself with having to \fill never able to get it together and, · events'' and.cat,~ simply foc_us on as a result, lost the game by 29 · trYing to score in the events in points. The ladies only went to which they ar:e entered. the line ten times, and made five The day~s.race of i-nterest oftheir free-throws. sho~lci easily. qe the 45rr; dash, in On the brighter side, Hitz is in which senior cp-captain Dave position to become just t}le third Riggi will co~npete for the first player in Dutch women history to time this$easonagainst perennial score 1000 career points. As of rivalKreshan.Gilmore. Riggi,the now, she has 983, which is 17 stat~9Utdo_er.~OOm.champion, is away from this historic mark. If . coming 9f;( a strJ),ng s:eason st.le br.eaks the record against opener again~! _J:Ip,lpilton and Hartwick laterthis·week, there hopesto.betriumppaptil]this;his will be a presentation at t.he next' ·. finp,.l .indpor ._ s~?,SoJI, in,, b9t!J the home game, which .is Saturday 45m,and 200m-.. . : , . aga.inst William Smith. 'If she -Amy Hitz. -closing In the field events, the throwers reaches 1000 on her hQtne-court, . Ii.ttf alsp i~ seeqnd on the al'J : · :record qf932..' 'l{itz -~as_ beenc.a · . eager~y lp~;>k to.th~irft(st compe- whicllwo.ul'd truly.bemetnorable~ time rebi:)undihg leadefrist. Her 'great force f6rthe Dtitchwomen· ·.titian und~frtewttifowlng coach there will be a presentation foJ.,. tnark of830 .puts· her: only H)2. squad, and her presen.ce.will be · Jim Bowles.:T;}leteam has~own lowing the game. short of R:obin: Romer's (88-92) truly missed next year. renewet;l ~nthqs.Ja~m. and SC?Veral · state qul!Jitl'ers shoul4 l:>e .f9rt~ ... W , H . k B. k E . coming. {n the jump~; ;Je.sse . ·.. OID~D S OC ey · . r~a S YCD Prisqo and Mike Martin.Jook. to by Jtidy Mousseau · · StajfWtiter 'Fh is past weekend, the Skating Dutch women won to Holy cross and lost to the Adirondack A team to record a4-4 overall record .. . q~,~.!:llify .in. tht11~ri.ple and .long Men's Jlf?Ckey The Skating Dutchwomen 's 6~: . 2 victory at Holy Cross.on S~tur:­ day ,January 25·cb~racterized the. · skill·and agility that the Union · wotllen's ilockey team has been working to achieve all season. Tl1e Skating Dutchwomen con- trolled the neutral. zone and stepped up their defense. to doml~ nate their opponents and to outplay them in every :aspect of the game. \Their outstanding pass- ·ing and crashing the net allowed the Dutchwomen to record their second win over Holy Cross this season. Sophomore forward Hilary Fitts commented, \We came out really strong, right from the l:legirming of the first period. We kept ottr feet mo.ving, which was crucial to otlr big.win. I was psyched becatJse our offense fi- nally put everything from prac- tice together. We made good passes and had great control of the puck Hopefully this will con~ tinue in the future.\ the.pr.ev.io!Js,d&y,...aJIQthj:)¥.jf~Uto ,.jll;lin.p~.,,:;,,\· ''/'.:!1 ... , ., .. , the. Adirorydack A team 4-<~. The . Turning to- the track; Clarke gatne began slowly,-le,aving Searle(5Sm,400m),KennyScott Union behind 2- I after the first (500mtco~captain Jay Goldberg period. As the game progressed, · (800m, 1500m) look to qualify in the DLitchwomen began to re- their. speciSilties, while several adapt the skills and attributes that ·. women look tq -qualify as well. had characterized their Saturday The mid-distance women have game against Holy Cross. The been training .arduously under SkatingDutchwom~n dorninated new coach Todd Donnelly the the third period, sto:pping the past two weeks and look forward Adirondack A's in their .tracks to welcoming back sophomore and Controlling their zone. The Molly Hood after a two week hia- SkatingDutchwomen allowed the tus from the team, 1/31 - 2/01- 1131- 2/01- 1/31 - 2/01 - . 2/01 - BROWN ARMY Women's BaskdbaU HAMILTON HOBART Men's Basketball HAMILTON HOBART Swimming @Hamilton Next Week in Sports: 7:30 7:00 6:00 4:00. 8:00 &:00 2:00 -Frank Rossi examines the possibilities <>f championship changes in Division Ill -Jon Gasthalter recaps hockey weekend and searches into the playoffscenarios for the Union College Skating Dutchmen -Chris Leone will stay far, faraway frotrl the Hockey Rink Issue barring any further developments. -Josh Adams covers the demise of the NHL's Chicago Blackhawks after the Eddie Bel four trade. and .... -Retro ad will look at the former \Miller Brewing Cmnpany\ Student Athlete of the Week Sophemore Lauren Locke de- fended the goal to keep Union ahead in the game, while sopho- more Sarah Moss, freshma·n Kiersten Owad, freshman Whitney Davis, senior Hana Ya1nashita, senior Kim Troiani, and freshman Beth Gabriel each contributed one goal to lead · Union 6-2 past Holy Cross. On Sunday, January 26, the Skating Dutchwomen did not crash the net or control the neu- tral zone·quite as weJ;I as they had Adirondack A temnnogoalsdur- If the men's and women's ingthe fast period: . teams get so I id performances Senior Jody Mousseau de- frmn their members on the track fended the Union net if! a losing and in the field, it should be an effort. Freshman Kiersten Owad exciting afternoon and a promis- scored a first petiod goal and freshman Beth Gabriel scored a · ing season ahead. TRACK NOTES third period goa:! to keep Union The Union men had won over in the game, enabling them to seven straight 3200m relay's go- record a 4-2 fa.JI to the ingbacktoindoorlastseason(in- Adirondack A team. · ch1ding both indoor and outdoor \The Union women's ice states and both UCAA Champi- hockey team has displayed a sig.- onships), but that streak came to niflcant improv.ement over past a screaching hault two weeks ago seasons. \Our success this sea- against Hamilton. It should be son can be directly attributed to noted however that all four mem- our increased intensity in prac- hers oflast year's indoor and out- tice,\ commented seniorforward door state championship teams Kim Troiani. PreseRtly in only ··are not: presently here at Union- their fourth season, the Skating two are abroad this ten11, and two Dutchwomen hope to. improve were lost ·to ·graduation. Nine their status on campHs, as well as men are currently ranked in their their. respectable record· this sea- . respective events in the state-· son. At the time of press.,.. the Riggi placed 9th in the 55tn and Skating Dutchwomen stand with 6th in the 200m; Searle placed a 4-4 overall record. I Oth in the 400m; J. Goldberg The Dutchwomett will chal- placed 11th in the l500m; B. l'enge Skidmore at Achilles Rink Goldberg placed 8th in the 200m; on Wednesday. February 5 at Marshall placed 11th in the long 2:30p.m. On Friday, February 7 jump: Jennings placed 9th in the at 4:45, Un.ion will meet the highjump; Notrtary placed 9th in Adirondack A's again, this tiine the pole vault; Couture placed 9th atAch.illes Rink. · in the poJe vault; and Royal placed 8th in the SP. ·•

·• Sports - _ · · . · WI c <!Ioncoroieuzis • January ~o·, 19.97 • Pa e· H> . . _Settling tlte Score Now-T·hat the Game is Over his.caJni6la~ and i:oneentrate second_· best, but without draft by ChrlsLeo~e ~ ~\' Spurt.sliditor onthe fortnidablePackets. Now picks like Willie McGinest and the Super Bowl is, over and the Curtis Martin, would the Patriots It might not hav<e been an aU time tirtlehas come for Parcells,. who not have afready been on the g61f classic Super 13cwl for the two is still the best coach in the course? large market tear11s: witli.large far'l. lea~ue, to answer some ques~ He is at times difficult, and; he bases, but the itn pact from Super tions and for New England to needs\ to have everything run .his Bowl XXXI will 110 doubt linger retain its leader. own way. But the ever present within New Englan-<l: if the Patriots I11 the days before the biggest question must be, who do you re- mismanage theit()llctciiing-staff. galll:'e (')fhislife, New England plac.\l Parcells with, a11d are tlae During the weelc 1-ead.ing up to quuterback Drew BJed.soe Patriots making their team better the game, -the nlltional media thre-w llis opinion into the mix. · byp~:~shing hini. outthe door? hounded New E-ngland Patriots ·Bledsoe stated that this was a lf ·Parc¢HS leaves his current coach BiJ:l Parcells·. \These distin'- young team that did not need arrangement and flees to New guished reporters were not seatGh- Parcells to be successfHl. Pa- York ther(,'J wiJl be further ques- ing for the answers.on•howto beat triot:s fans, do not be fooled by tions to surface. Did the New Green Bay, whicih wound· up be- what the young, he;;td-. strong York Jets t~mper with the Wew ing insignificant after the game. qu2rterbackmightsay. England coacl:n:v11ile the season Rather, these Ill•en and women New England needs Parcells. . was still iri.progress?'. wanted toknow Mrel't-e would be He !-]as taken a team, a.vd fur- · · League r~IIes· prohibit another coaching next sea..son. therrnore a quarterback. that at team from \iilt:etferi ng w i til Rumors-- and w-e· at Union are times loses confidence .and coach~sorplayers while the team familiar with nii11(Jrs regarding ma:de·tllem believe that they can is still competing. The Jets, if sports progrmus -· sprea<l like a for- play in tlile big game. Parcells ' f(')t.md guilty of a charge like this, est fire. There w~re.reports regard\ . didrrotthtowthe three intercep- couldbe fot'tedto tunHheir mun- ing Parcells leaviltg New England, tit> n-s against Green Bay. · ber:o~e dratlf)'Jck·6.vert@ t11e Pa\ and then filli11g tfle .coaching va- Parcells did not blow c0verage triots. tfuf,s ld~a is riot·as·ridicu- cancy with the New 'York Jets. and tackles on the Desmond •Jous.as i~might,.first:'~eejn:: · Other reports had.Farcells taking a · · How.anl kick-off .return. In -1-970,.when, 'r.~.on· Sil'ula {efl: year off as welt ~looking forwork ·Parcells .brou..ght New En- the Baltim:Ore'CoJf~~o,~o~ch i1{~ in another NFLcity. gland the too.Is to get to where ·Miami Dolphins, 'then.:.\!ommi~~ Parcells, ever the cliplomat, re• they are ·right now--a spot that si001er Pete Rozel~ awarded- B~'\ fused toanswertl:tel}uestionsabout tweniy·e-ightotherteams would timore the Dolphins .first pick. his future. He waw.1e<l to stick to crave for. Yes, they were only · Rozek~ bel iev.ed. that since Simla had been a coach of a Super ~owl team (Super Bowl !H) that Balti- more should receive compensa- tion forth~ Dqlphins' actions. A first round draft pick is not the at1swer to losing a coach. The .Jets are a perfect example of what happens when a team has a great draft choice,. with no leader to di- rect the talent. Retnember, a cast of a Broadway play is only as good as the direction it receives, a class will o11ly learn as much as a professor can teach, and an atmy will only win the war if they are lead by a true ge11eral. Bill Parcells is the director, the pro- fessor, and the general for the New England Patriots. * * * * * * * * * * * * They have been billed as the new look New Y ark Knicks, but it is still the same results in a big game especially when they are playi~1g the Chicago Bulls. tn·the NFL last week, every- thing old w::ls new again. Dick Vermeil broke up one of the great broadcast teams to coach St. Louis. Mike Ditka then returned to coaching and signed on to guide the New Orleans Saints. Speaking ofDitka, what ma.kes him so .great? When the Chicago Bears won Super Bowl XX they were the youngest team ever to be crowned champions. How- ever, they never returned to the big game, and Ditka is still thought of as great coach and football mind. lf Boston Red Sox Jose Canseco was to be traded to Oak- land, it would end three years of major league whining. Oscar De La Hoya got very I ucky this past weekend. If Pernell Whitaker had not kn0cked out Diobel is Hurtado in the eleventlnounq, De La Hoya would have missed out on a huge pay day, and, if Whitaker forgets to trait1 once again, an easy vic- tory. With all these young athletes, I ike 16-year~old tennis star Martin·a Hingis, traveling the globe and earning millions, can someone tell me when these stars go to school? No wonder most of them amount to either very I ittle, or can barely converse in public once they reach their twen- ties. The time has come for legisla- tion to prevent children from los- ing. their childhood by playing a sport. Ho,ckey Now in Eighth Place·in_ECAC ... continuedfrom page 20 mit RPJ. to ·get the; !lUCk oat of its own zone. The s-til it! oorecheck:ing led to an early I>utcfumen goal, as Brent Ozarowski.swipe;d the puck away from an RP[ (iefenseman in thecomer alongtheb()ardsandfed a pass t-o Patrick O'Flc:dlerty in the slot, who one-timed th~ puck past RPI goaltender ]()~( I .. aing with only 3:42 intotheJleriod. The or- anges rained dow;11, --as the fans screamed and the IDut<:hmen took a 1-0 lead. Through'()ut the rest of the period, the DuiC>hrnen contin- uedtheir hard-hitting;, getting some good opportunitiest<> i11crease the lead. However, Laing, who was stellar in goal all nigbt,kicked out fourteen more sh<lts. At the end of twenty minutes~ the; Sc()reremained 1-0. The second periocl \)egan just as the first had, with Unioll ciorninatQ ing play and outslt!!ti11g the Engi-- neers to lo0st:;:pilcks. Tile Dutch- men opened the lei.ld at 7; 1 4 of the period, when JeffSproat sAeaked in rrom the blue-111le:and found the open net off an Ozarowski pass. Sproat felt that heWY'as intht! right area at the right tin:1e. \Coming in from the point, it i s.jJJ:st trying to · find the open .space. Brent [Ozarowski] just made a great pass. Ididh't really look~ T j-ust kind of shot it. I am glad it foundthe back' the net\ Just fifty-one seconds later, Charlie Mox:h:amjumped into the scoring act. l\1.()xltam, who played an excellerlt game all night, jumped on a puck:ai..Qng the right wing boards afld, v;.itn a burst of speed, cut in oil La..i11g a11d buried the puck, givingUnio11a 3-0 lead. With the fans screa:.n i11g for more, RPl came bac1< v..~ith a scoring chance. but a brlHi ant glove save by Shtr.om, snati11gthe puck just before it reached th:e t()p corner of the net, thwarted the RPI chance. The Dutchmen cDiltinued their hard hitting as Jobh S icittski threw a big hit in the comer, knoo'king his man off of the pucl< J~irneAntoine ~nd Craig Reckin followed suit However, ·after the· whistle was blown with the puck. froz~ll. againS-t the boards,. the- Engineer· whom Reckin hit dropped his gloves ·and t>11gage\cl' -R:edtirr in·a fight.- · RPI':S B'ryan Tapp·er and Recbin were both given five minutes fighting majors and , game misconducts. Up until this point in the game, Union had been in complete control. However, the fight served as last week in RPl .. With the Engi- neers ott the powerplay to start the period,- they quickly cut Union's lead to one. Captain Pat Brownlee took a shot ftotn ·fhe point, which Alain St. HiHaire was ableto tip past Shtrom for the score.. The game continued to get ugly as both teams engaged in a number of post- whistle skinnishes, something the coaching staffs for both teams hoped would be avoided. Shtrom made a number of' sa¥es, stopping RPI tying atte_mpts, as visions of last minutes to go in the period, the Dutchmen. began to muster some offense .. Jay Ptentice and Ryan .Donovan goracouplc of shots in on LJ~ing~ butthe tresliman goatie hetd-.strong. li1 the closing sec- ()>Hd·s~:i,;,,f ~the:- peri~, Ryan C~unpbeU dnrvetowards 'tin; net., i:liying foia pass.: .Campbell g~~ his stick on the ptick and sent it' tO:wards·the open net However~ L:iing kicked ou~ his rightleft toe and· got jt1st enough of the puck to keep it from crossing the I ine. CfiTis .l!otd (15) tacesfor tlte ptlck duting.tlle second pe;iod oftlze RPI game. (Rick Lederer I TC)' somewhat-ofa turningpoint week began to appear. However, The five minute overtime for the Engineers. Thirteen Shtrom, a£termakingan initial save _stanza began with the crowd on secohdsaftertheofficialsfin- onaMarkMurphyshotinfrontof its feet cheering for a goal. ishedsortingoutthepenalties, his own net, was beaten as RPI's Prentice and Donovan were on RPI\s Eric Healey got the En- Danny Riva fmmda loose rebound the ice and got a couple of good gineers on board: Snatching in the slot and .shot it past the chances, but once again Laing the puck in the neutral zone, sprawled Shtrom. Once again the was there. The Engineers got one Healey brok.e in alone and Union defense could not get the chance to score, butShtrom made tucked a backhand in behind putk out, and the score was tied at the save to increase his total to Shtr<lm. The period ended 3-3withjustovertenminutestogo thirty-eight. Withjustovertwo witht1 1 e score :i-t. in the game. The Engineers kept minutes to go in the overtime pe- The Dutchmen came out up the pressure, but Shtrom was riod, Chad Thompson was hauled for the third, weary ofRPI's flawless, kicking out ten shots, .as down behind the net and the ability t<> come back as they Union tried to get itself back on Dutchmen went on the had from a similar 2-1 deficit track. Finally, with just over two powerplay. Chris Ford and Russ Monteith got a combined tour shots on Laing, but he kicked them all out, and as the buzzer sounded· the teams ren\!lined deadlocked at 3-3. Senior Cap- . ' tain Andrew Will teltthl!-1 Utiion outplayed RPI for forty miHutes. . \The first two periods, we o~~ed them. The third period, we got into penalty trouble. That takes away trom your mmnentutn. It got them fired up.\ Freshman for- ward Ryan. Campbell .echoed Will's sentiments. \We did not lose any confidence, but penalty trouble took our mon'lentuni. The tie gives both teams one point eacl1 in the ECAC, leaving Union in eighth place with a recGrd of 5-6-2, one point behind Colgate. RPI (7-3-2) moves into a three-way tie tor second place with Cornell and Clarkson. The Dutchmen entertain the Brown Bears on Friday night at 7:30 at Achilles rink Mark Will feels the team is excited to play Brown at home. \Having lost to them three week- ends ago. there is a lot of enthu- siasm and eagerness to get back on the ice against Brown. We are in a tough situation now where every point we can get to move us up in the standings is crucial. Even though Brown has struggled this season, we expect to come out as hard and as fast as if we were playing the top team in the league.\ BETWEEN THE PIPES Craig Reckin will serve his one game league-imposed sus- pension for fighting Saturday night. Referee Scott Leavitt called thirty-five penalties for ninety-five minutes. The two banners put up undemeath the I ist of Union Skating Dutchmen cap- tains reading \lfYou Build It, We Won't Come\ and \Get A New President, Not A New Rink\ were removed by security. -

Flying High by Kelen Barr StaffW:titer The Union men's and women's swim teams were hard at work this past week, competing on Wednesday and Saturday, against R.P.I. and Middlebury College, respectively. On Wednesd~y, the women's team drowned R.P.I. 145-8 I with a total of nine first place finishes. Freshman diver Heather Weisentluh won both the one meter diving and the three meter diving, breaking the Union school record for the one meter board and qualifying herself for the National meet at Miami of Ohio in March. Heather has baen a great addition to the team, hav- ing a nearly perfect record on the om.: meter board so far this sea- son Although the meet was in the middle of the week, and the swimmers were tired, they pulled through and showed their strengths. The men's team also showed amazing strength by beating R PI 135-100 on Wednesday The men also had nine first place finishes, including double victo- ries by Jeff I Iuerle in the I 000 frecsty le and in the I 00 back- stroke, Kevin Makarowski in the 200 freestyle and in the 100 but- lert1y, Mike llumphrcys in the 50 freestyle and in th~ I 00 freestyle, and Brian Field in the one meter diving and in the three meter div- mg. On Saturday. the men's and women's teams were at it again. swimming against Middlebury College. After a very close meet Contillued 011 page I 7 Brian Field tumbles til rough tile air, mzl1is way to Jl!illllillg tile divillg competitio11. (Laurie Kirscllmr I TC) \If You Build It, We Won't Come\ Dutchmen skate to 3-3 tie against RP 1 while protest banners adorn Achilles Rink by Jonathan Gasthalter Sports Editor Union College battled RPI Sat- urday night in the rubber-game of a three game series between the Route 7 rivals. Union, coming off a 5-2 loss to RPl at the. Houston Field House, returned home to Achilles Rink hoping to redeem themselves. In front, 2,504 raucous fans at the filled-to-capacity rink, many holding signs and waving banners reading \Save Achilles\ in defi- ance of the proposed new off- campus home for the Dutchmen. The teams, feeling the energy in the building, took the ice. Union, with Leeor Shtrom making his second consecutive start in goat came out of the box skating hard, and keeping up a strong forecheck that did not per- Colltillued on page 19 Seuior forward Russ M.o11teitll is stuffed by RPl.goalteiJder Joel Laing ill tlte closing seco11ds of a 3-3 tie (JTIIoto by Rick Lederer lTC) Baseball Creates Sunshine by Christopher .Le()ne Sports Editor~ Spring .training for. Major. League Basebal} Players does mot start for several weeks, when pitcl:iers and catchers· will begirt to report to tb~jr. wann-weather sites, However, this past week- end; while the temperatures stayed well below freezing, base- baH coach Mike Lynch and ten ofhis players deciped to create a little warmth ri.ghthere in balmy Schenectady at the Memorial Field House. Over 60 local youths, ages 7 through 17, spent part of their weekend getting some counseling and .a leg up on their still frozen competition. The program spa~;:med two days, Saturday for ages 7 to 12 and Sunday for those 13 and up, and helped players im- prove ski.Jls while giving them the needed practice that would nor- mally be impossible. The day's activities were dedi- cated to the fundamentals of the sport. In the morning, players went through battiiig stages and then were able to hit off one out of a selection of Union pitchers ·After a short break, the afternoon sessions were devoted to defen- sive and pitching drills. The day culminated with Coach Lynch giving a pitching clinic to help the aspiring future Cy Young's. Participants in the clinic were charged a fee that will help raise funds for the financially tight program. Each year the team travels to Florida which is neces\ sary due to the uncertain sched- ule that occurs, courtesy of the ever~changing April weather. Lynch, who helped organize the clinic, is a fnrmer member of the Boston Red Sox organization, spent three years in the minor leagues, including spending time in AA. While at Union, he and head coach Gary Reynolds have taken a once struggling program and built it back into what is fore- seen as a possible contender for an ECAC playoff birth. Lynch described tl~e program as \part of an ongoing, concerted effort to rai·se the visibility of the baseball program, i10t only on campus but also in the cmnmu- nity.\ Headded, ''When area resi- dents think ofUnio11, they do not always think ofthe basebatl pro- gram. In the past we have taken our lulnps, and we are trying to turn thiligs arotmd \ Sophomore pitcher Richard Nespola said a few words about the successful weekend \It was a great opportunity to work with the local community. Not only the kids, but everyone, had lots offun. Wewereableto'helpthem prepare for their seasons as we prepare ourselves for a strm1gsea- . son.\ ~, .

Flying High by Kelen Barr StliffWriter The Uaion men's and women's swim t~ams were hard at work this past week, competing on Wednesd2y and Saturday, against R P l and Middlebury College, respecti vel:y. On Wcdnesdu,y, the women's team dr()v.:ned RP I 145-8 I with a total l>f11ine first place finishes Frcsh1nan diver !leather Wt:Jsenll uh won hoth tht: ont: meter u iv Ing anJ the three meter diving, br{!aking the Union sd10ol record li)r tht: ont: meter hoard anJ cjuaiii\lllg ht:rself for the NatiOnal m~:et at Miami ofOhio 111 Mard1 i leather has heen a great aJLiJt ion to the team. ha\- 111g a nc-~Jrl\. jll'rkct recmJ on the lll1L' nwtn hu,Jr,f ~o far thic. sea- \un ,\ ltillwgh the meet \\as Ill tht' mlliJ k t~lthL· ''ech.. ~llld the \'\ llllllh.T~ \\Crt' nrcd. the\ pulkJ thfllllt!h anJ \htl\\Cd the1r \trent:rh lht• 111~11 ~ team abo shll\\ L'U . .tllla/IIlt!- ~tren):!th h\ heat1ng R PI \ \1.~-1 till un \\'cdnesJa\ The ll1L\Il abo had Ill Ill' first rlacc finishes, Ill d uJltlg douhle v icto- ncs lw .ldl llucrle in the 1000 freest \lc •tnd in the I 00 hack- stru ke, 1\ C\. 1 n 1\1 akanm ski 111 the 2tJU ln:cstvle anJ 111 the 100 hut- tcrlh. \hk~.: i lumphre\s 111 the )ll Irt'L'\t\lt: ;rnJ Ill the ltHl !\rt·e~t\ k. dl\ lll(:!dllli IIJ!IJC tilll'C lllt:le! Ji\- Ill!' ( )n S;rlll rJa\. the men·\ and \\lllllL'II '> \\-\lllh \\l'll\ ,![ 1\ .l~,llll ·,\\illlllll'IJ,:_ ,1;2.tllbl \IJJJkbur\ t ·ol kgc_ :~l~cr ;_!___\ -~_r_y .<:_l_osc meet Continued on pa;:e I :r ....... •' Brian field fltmbie.~ t!trou~:lr tlte air, 011 his w~v to winning tile diving competition (Laurie Kirsclwer I T() ---- ------·-----------------------· \If You Build It, We Won't Come\ DltJchnzen skate to 3-3 tie against RPI while protest banners adorn Achilles Rink h:,'l _f!,nathan ( ;:!qhaltt·r Sports Editor llnwn ('ollcgc battled RPI Sat- urdav n 1g.ht in the ruhher-gamc of a three game series between the Route 7 rivals Union. coming off a 5-2 luss to RPI at the J louston FlelJ I louse, returned home to Achilles Rmk hopmg to redeem themse lvcs In frcmt 2.504 raucous fans at the filll.!d-t<J-capacity rink, many holding. s 1g,ns and waving banners readmg \~ave Achilles\ in defi- ance of the proposed new off- cam pus home for the Dutchmen The teains, feeling the energy 111 the hwid mg, took the ice. lJn io11, with Lee or Shtrom makmg tus second consecutive start in g<>aL came out of the box skating hard, and keeping up a c.trong f(>r~check that did not per- Continued 011 page 19 Senior forward Russ Monteith is stuffed by RPI goaltender Joel Lai11g i11 tile closi11g seconds of a 3-3 tie (photo by Rick Lederer lTC) Baseball Creates SUI1SI1iiiC by Christopher Leone Sports Editor Spring training for MaJor League Baseball Players docs not start for several weeks, when pitchers and catchers will begin to report to their warm-weather sites, However, this past week- end, while the temperatures stayed well below freezing, base- ball ccach Mike Lynch and ten of his players decided to create a little warmth right here in balmy Schenectady at the Memorial Field House. Over 60 local youths, ages 7 through 17. spent part of their weekend getting some counseling anJ a leg up on their still frozen competition The program spanned two Jays, Saturday' for i ages 7 to 12 and Sundav for those 13 and up, and helped playns im- proH skills \hi k gi' i ng t hL'm tlw nt:eJeJ practice that \\ ouiJ nor- mallY he impossible Thcdav·s actl\ ities \\l'rl' dedi- cated tu the rundament;il s of thl' sport In the morning, player<; went through battmg stagcs and then were a hie to hit off one out of a selcct1on of Union pitchers A tter a short break, the afternoon sessions were devoted to defen- sive and pitching Jrills The Jay culminated \\ ith Coach Lynch gi \ i ng ~I r itching c I iJllcto hd p the a-.piring future C~ Yuung's P.t~t:l''/'\.ln: •:; t!h· ~..·l\~ 1 ,· '.'.· ... ·rl· ..:ll,ll !;!c.:J ,1 k..: tll.tt ''ill help r.1J:-.c !\unJ:-. fur the i\In ti):!ht program Faeh \car the team tr~\\ cl \to I· l1'r1da '' hich 1~ 11L'l'l'\- >.lr\ due Ill I!Jl' lllll'lTI,llll ,l'jll·d- ! ulc that occurs. enurtesv of the e\ er-changmg April weather L~ nch. \\ho helped org.amze the d i11 ic. i~ a forml'r nll'm her nf 1 thl' Boston Red So\ urganvatiun spent three vears in the min or I leagues. IJlclLJdJilg srcndiJJg tiJnC in 1\/\ While at l Inmn. he and head coach ( Ia!) Reyno! Js h;l\ e taken a oiKC -.truggllllg program and built it hack into \\hat IS fore- seen as a possihlc contender for an ECAC playoffb1rth Lynch described the program as \part of an ongomg, concerted effort to raise the visibility of the baschall program. not only on campus hut also 111 the commu- nitv '\ lie added, '·When area resi- dents think of Union, they do not always think ofthe hascbatl pro- gram In the past. we haw taken our lumps, and we are tn·ing to turn things around \ Sophomore pitcher Richard Nespola said a few words ahout the successful weekend ''It was a great opportunity to work with the local community Not only the kids. but everyone, had lots offi.In We were ahle to help them prepare for their seasons as we prepare ourselves for a strong sea- son.

