Tlte Student New~pClper of Union College Since 1877 Patrik Speaks by Adrian MacLean Editor Emerita Two years have passed since Professor Linda Patrik' s tif~ took a dramatic turn. It was in April of 1996 that Patrik was trapped in her home with her husband and mother-in-law after the arrest of Theodore Kaczynski, her brother- in-law. Theodore was chargedwith being the infamous Unabomber, a man responsible for three deaths and thirteen wounded during his anti-technology bombing cam- paign. It was Patrik and her hus- band. David Kaczynski who pieced the puzzle together and alerted the proper authorities to their suspi- cions. With the trial having reached an end, and Theodore Kaczynski serving a life sentence, Patrik shared her experiences in an interview with The Concordiensis. It was as early as 1991 that Patrik recognized the idiosyncratic be- havior ofher brother-in-law. It was immediately apparent that he was mentally ill, and having just mar- ried into the family, Patrik was an objective observer. \They say that in 80% of cases of schizophrenia the family membersthemselvesdo not recognize it, arrd resist the di- . agnosis even if it comes from a pro- fessional psychiatrist,'~ Patrik said, . \Usually it takes someone from outside the family to first see there , is a problem, so they figure that's the rolethat l played because I had never met Ted Kaczynski, and I · knew about him ollly from the sto- ' des that my husba.nd told me and then eventually mymother-in-Iaw , started to tell stories about him.\ Asked about ·Ch~nges in the Kaczynski family dynamics over time, Patrik commellted, \Well how different David an(( Ted are! They are eight years' apart, so as soon as David came intoothe family, Ted was already a strange child ... from David's perspective, he can't talk about change in family dynamics because he was boorn into a family that was already trying to accom- modate its disturbed child- bril- liant child, genius child, but a very strange child. Davidjust grew up taking this for granted. His brother was faitly authorhtarian; he really ... coTttinued on Serge and Beale KJaryfeld will speak at Union on March l5 1 h 203rd Founder's Day a Success · · · student attendance were between fcss()r Wang Jianzhong from the by Michael DeMicco 50 and 70. Dean Linda Cool com- Nanjing Normal University of News Editor mented, \Student attendance for Chima The piano piece he played On February 23, 1998, Union this event was extremely pathetic '''as entitled, \Colorful C'louds College celebrated its 203\ 1 Anni- and a real disappointment.\ The Chillsing the Moon\ provided the versary ofthe granting of the Col- ceremony was originally sched- a1\Jeh1spired audience a chance to ·lege Charter. Held in the Memorial uled for Saturday the 28th but it was cemvision the courrtryside of China Chapel, the celebration was con- suspected that student participa- «~11 ~llile listening to a complete ducted in normal Union fashion. tion would be higherif it were dur- at:Jral masterpiece. An academic procession preceded ing the week. As a result of that The guest of honor who drew by men in traditional Scottish dress theory, Thursday the 26 was cho- m crubers.ofthe Union community playing bagpipes marched into the , sen. Though student turnout was 10o the celebration was Professor hall adorned by their scholarly sparse at best, faculty turnout R oi:Jert Coles. His speech robes. The chapel's powerful pipe seemed to be }()wer than other prer:tained to the Morals ofToday's organ, played by Professor Dianne events that have been at the Me- Youth, and when Coles spoke, McMullen, forced music through- morial Chapel in the evening hours. tlle:re v.:as not a single person in out the auditorium as the profes- At the middle ()fthe Convoca- tlu a:udience that did not devote sors and administrators took seats. tion, the Gideon Hawley Teacher tine ir complete attention to his To begin the ceremony, Profes- Recognition Awards were handed wo:rd.s. Among other people like sor Jan Ludwig, Marshal of the out to those high school teachers EmersonandBamhofferthatColes ceremony, officially opened the who had greatly effected the lives diis<:ussed, he mentioned his rela- celebration and introduced all of of several Union College students. tlo()n!>hip withthe little girl \Ruby the special guests who would be The three recipiernts were: Orlando who was the first girl to attend a either speaking or conducting a R. Pandolfi, norninated by Seth d-esegregated ·school in Arkansas musical piece. The welcome ad- Carrier,StephenRadice,nominated a11dquoted that, \if it weren't for dress came from President Roger by Sofia Mazo, and Carol Yacono, h,er-, I would have been a different Hull which was followed by Rutll who was nominated by Kamasha p-erson.\ His speech had the basic Strosberg, Senior Trustee; Profes- Hendrickson. The. guest 9fhonor m~aning of forget all you have been sor Adrian Frazier, Professor of who was presented an honorary ta11g.ht and just listen; listen to English and Chairman, Faculty Ex- degree, Professor R()bert Coles of tb<lseyou think don't know some- .ecutive Committee; and David Harvard University, applauded tlhi11g because in reality they do Chapnick, class of'59 and Chair- these awards anchaid, \More co}.. k:.n()..V something and it is you man of the board of Trustees. leges should pay tribute to teach- \kmowleclge\ that is keeping you Duringtheinitialgreetirtgsofthe· ers across the country. Union is .fi'()lll s~eing it. This speech was ceremony, student campus in- doing a great thi11g.'' ·g;ive11 without notes and was said volvement was applauded evert After the Gideon Hawley tCJ:I:Jesimply fromhis feelings. His while at most of the stuoent body Awards were presented, a musical a:ppreacll rewarded him with a well did not attend. Best estimates of interlude took pl:ace by guest Pro- e:amed standing ovation. News: Strong Applicant Pool Page3 Nazi Hunters Address Union by Jonathan Gasthalter and Adrian MacLean Editor-in-Chief and Editor Emerita Serge and Beate Klarsfeld, two world-renowned Nazi hunters, will launch the exhibit in Nott Memo- rial entitled \Lessons For Human- ity.\ The two-floor exhibit will run from March 15- April23, and will be supplemented by numerous films and lectures regarding the Anniversary of the Holocaust. Since the early 1960's, the Klarsfelds have dedicated their lives to bringing former Nazi's and their French collaborators during the Vichy Government to justice. The Klarsfelds were instrumental in bringing Klaus Barbie, better known as the \Butcher of Lyons\ as well as Maurice Papon to jus- t,ice. Papon is currently on trial in Bordeaux, France for crimes against humanity. The Klarsfelds have served as the .chief witnesses at the trial, and their son, Arno Klarsfeld, has been a prosecutor. Their conversation with Union will

J - Gil Iii I The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 ----------------------·------~----~~~~~~---------------- - <\~;c·-· .. ···-~-··• --~-~\;>-\ ~->.-~ .. '~.- ... -. .c!t;~:;e····;~;!'i,_£~~~.1~~iS~~~J:~~J~~.:~~;;:_c_~;~~,~···~'c~···~~. . ' -------- --·-.- .,_..-.·, Patrik Speaks Nazi Hunters Address Union by Adrian MacLean Editor Emerita Two years have passed :since Professor Linda Patrik 's life t<Qok a dramatic tmn. It was in Ap·ril of 1996 that Patrik was trapped in her home with her husba11 d and mother-in-law after the arrest of Theodore Kaczynski, her !>rather- in-law. Theodore was charged with being the in famous Unab()rn ber, a man responsible for three dleaths and thitteen wounded durirog his anti-technology bombing cam- paign. It was Patrik and he1r hus- band David Kaczynski who pieced tht..: puzzle together and alerte;:d the proper authorities to their suspi- cions. With the trial having reached an end, and rh cod ore Kaczynski serving a life sentence, Patrik shared her experiences in an interview with The ( 'r mcur&em· /,\'. in 80% of cases of schizophrenia the family members themselves do not recognize it, and resist the di- agnosis even if it comes from a pro- fess.ional psychiatrist,\ Patrik said, \Usually it takes someoNe from outside the family to first see there is a problem, so they figure that's the role that I played because I had never met Ted Kaczynski, and l knew about him only from the sto- ries that my husband told me and tht:n eventually my mother-in-law started to tell stories about him.'\ by Jonathan Gasthalter and Adrian MacLean Editor-in-Chief and Editor Emerita Serge and Beate Klarsfeld, two world-renowned Nazi hunters. will launch the exhibit in Nott Memo- rial entitled \\Lessons For lluman- ity.\ Thetwo-lloorexhibit will run from March 15 April23. ,mJ will be supplenwnted b~ numerous films and lecture., re~arding the Anniversary of thl' llolPcaust. It was as early as 1991 tlmt Patrik recognized the id iosyncratiic be- haviorofherbrother-in-law. lt was immediately apparent that 11e was mentally ill, and having just mar- ried into the family. Patrik vvas an objective observer. \They say that Asked about changes in the Kaczynski family dynamics over time, Patrikcomme11ted, \WelL how (.]ifTerent David and Ted are! The) arc eight years\ apart, so as soon as David came into the family, Ted was already a strange child ... from David's perspective, he can't talk about change in family dynamics because he was born into a farn ily that was already trying to accom- modate its disturbed child- bril- liant child, genius child, but a very strange child. David just grew up taking this for granted. His brother was fairly authoritarian; he really . , .continued on page 4 ('ourts.y of Publir Rl'latiuns Serge and Reate Klarsfeld will !>peak at Union Oil Marclt J5'h Since the early 1960\s. the Kl<lro.;fclds han: dedicat~:d thL·Ir i i\ eo., tu bringmg former \:<11i ·-.and their FrL'Ill:h collab\)rators duri11~ the V1ch~ (itl\ernml'nt to JlhiiCL'. !'he K bro., tdds \1 t:re ino.,trument,il in bringing Klaus Darbil'. bettL'r known as thl' \Butcher of lyon-;\. as well as Maurice Papon to jus- t_icc. Papon is currently on trial in Bordeaux. France for crime<; against humanity. The KlarsfeiJs have served as the chief witnesses at the trial. and their son, Arno K larsfeld, has been a prosecutor. Their conversation \\.ith linion will ... conlinued on page 6 203rd Founder's Day a Success by Michael DeMicc-o l\'ew.'i Editor On February 23, 1998. Union College celebrated its 203' 1 Anni- \ cr:,Jl') of tile granting 0 r lltt: Col- kgc Chatter. I klJ intht: ~1cmori,ll lh.!pd. th~.: lekbratiun ~\•·L~ lllll- JudcJ ill nurmal L'nion r.n~hion. ,\n cJc,Idemit: pruce~~ion pr-.:ceJL'd by Ill ell inll,lditional Sultl i>ill drL·..,, pl.t) lllg bagpipe~ m,ucht-:J i11to the hall adorned by their sclnolarl) mhes. The chape I' s powe rrul pipe organ. played by Profe~sor Dianne McMulkn. forced musil:through- out the auJiturium as tht.:: pruft:s· ~urs anJ aJitlinistrators tlltlh. st:ats. To begin the cercmon) . IProfes· sur Jan LuJwig, Marshal of the ceremony. officially opcllled the cckbratiuu and introduced all of the spt.:cial gu~.:sts who \.,oultl be either speaking or conducting a musical piece. The welc()me ad- dress came from President Roger Hull which was followed lly Ruth Strosberg, Senior Trustee; J>rofes- sor Adrian Frazier, Pr()fe:ssor of English and Chairman, Fa-culty Ex- ecutive CC>mmittee; and David Chapnick, class of' 59 andl Chair- man of the board of Trustees. During the initial greeti11~,gs of the ceremony, student campus in- volvement was applauded even while at most of the studcilt body did not attend. Best estimates of News: student attendance were between fessor Wang Jianzhong from the 50 and 70. Dean Linda Cool com- Nanjing Normal University of mented, \Studl.!nt atll:nd<uH:e for China. Tbc piano piece he played this event was extreme!; pathetic was entitled. ''Colorful Clouds and a real disappointment'\ The Chasing the ~1oon'\ provided the lcremon; \\Js origin;.dl: schcJ- ,1\\c inspired audicnCl' ~~ ch3nce tn u kd for Saturday the :s·'· hut it \I <h en\ i\ inn thl' cnuntr\ wk 11f Ch in3 ,u~pL'dt:d th;1t -.tud-.·nt particip;t- tion \\llU]J be higher if it'' crl' dur- ing thL' \\eek. :\' ,t rc-.,ult of that ti1L·or;. lln;r,d,I) tilL'~(, ''d\ dw· ~Cll. J'huugh ~tuJent tllrtlllllt \1 \\ sparse at best, faculty turnout seemed to be lower than other evenb that have been at the Mc- mnrial Chapel in the evening hours. At the middle uf the Con\oca· tion. the GiJcon lla\\ le; Teacher Recognition Awards were handed out to those high school teachers who had greatly effected the lives of several Union College students The three recipients were: Orlando R. Pandolfi, nominated by Seth Carrier, Stephen Radice, nominated by Sofia Mazo, and Carol Yacono, who was nominated by Kamasha Hendrickson. The guest ~fhonor who was presented an honorary degree, Professor Robert Coles of Harvard University, applauded these awards and said, \More col- leges should pay tribute to teach- ers across the country. Union is doing a great thing.\ After the Gideon Hawley Awards were presented, a musical interlude took place by guest Pro· ;t!J \1 hik }i\tCnin~ tP :1 (<'ll'r\ete ,lmalma-;tcrpiecL· The guc\t of hnn(1r 1\h<' drew rncmhcro., ofthl' I 'nil•llcPII11lltl!lit\ l<l ti1L' cclchratilln \:tr.. Pr,,fl'-;<nr Robert Cole~. IIi~ speech prertaincd to the Morals ofToday's Youth, and \\hen Coles spoke. there was not a single person in the audience that did r10t devote their complete attention to hi<> words. Among, other people like Emerson and Bamhoffer that Coles discussed, he mentioned his rela- tionship with the little girl \Ruhy.\ who was the first girl to attend a desegregated school in Arkansas and quoted that, \if it weren't for her, I would have been a different person.\ His speech had the basic meaning of forget all you have been taught and just listen; listen to those youth ink don't know some- thing because in reality they do know something and it is you \knowledge\ that is keeping you from seeing it This speech was given witho11t notes and was said to be simply from his feelings. His approach rewarded him with a well earned standing ovation. Features: Strong Applicant Pool Pa~e3 Riding the Pine Page 15 '~ -< '·' Robert Coles speaks at· Founder's Day Sports: Winter Sports Wrap-up Page 20

The Student Newspaper of Union College Since\\ 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Jonathan Gasthalter EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Day.id Blatt . Amy DiBattista EXECUTIVE EDITORS Christopher G. Leone MANAGING EDITOR Peter Simon OPINIONS EDITOR Michael DeMicco Stephanie Slobotkin NEWS EDITORS ·. Christopher Leone SPORTS EDITOR Liam Joynt WORLD NEWS EDITOR Lori Greene KimRohback ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT EDITORS Robert Hagopian COMPUTER MANAGER Michelle Tham FEATURES EDITOR Aaron Br;umstein DavidMeglterdi¢hlan PHOTO EDITORS Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Victoria Hargreaves SCIENCE & TECH EDITOR Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Jennifer Pelose COPY EDITOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Paul D'Annibale, Rick Lederer, Sloan Miller, Cory Silken, Kate Stefanik, Maur~ Woessner. STAFF: Matt Aronowitz, Anjali Balasingha.m, Kelen Uarr, Hannab. Blum, Tracy Boriskin, Jaime Chandler, Jay Connelly., Shan a Dangelo, Jim DeWan, Jason Goldberg, Heath Fradkoff, David Kay, Adrian. MacLean, Ryan Marshall, Conor McKenzie, Pike Mody, Nick · Papanickolas, Lisa Pertoso, Lee Polikoff, Aileen Quigley, Eu.gene Schultz, Neha Shah, Frank Rossi, Rebecca Thyresson, David Weiner, Maura Yaffee. . Campus News' Campus Security Report UNION COLLEGE CAMPUSSAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY, F·EBRUARY23, 1998THROUGHMONI>AY,MARCH2,1998 LOCATiON. .. . -.;, MONDAY, FEBRUARY23,.1998: 10:25 AM Library Lane· 4:00PM 5:18PM 6:16PM ·Becker Hall· ·· Alumni Gym Union Street . ,. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY24, 1998: 7:06AM Hecker Hall 8:54AM Campus Operations 9:51PM Raymond House WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1998: 10:10 AM · Nott Seward Lot 3:50PM 6:16PM 7:45PM Psi Upsilon South College Alumni Gym Tl:tURSDA Y, FEIJRUARY 26, 1998: 10:10 AM SouthCoiiege 1:50PM Achilles Lot 5:52PM Whitaker House FRIDAY,FEBRUARY27, 1998: 3:37AM AlexanderLane 3:51 AM Fraternity 8:45AM Fox North 10:30 AM Achilles Lot 3:00PM ,., WestJ)ining 7:15PM Fieldhouse SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 28,.1998: 6:59 PM North College 7: 16 .PM South College 10:38 PM West College SUNDAY, MARCH l, 1998: 2:55 PM Library Lane Area 4 5:30PM Davidson South 8:44PM Alumni Gym MONOAY,MARCH2, 1998: 12:31 AM Edwards House 8:07AM 8:36AM Davidson Lounge Achilles Lot INCIDENT. HARASSMENT: Student reperted being followed and verbally harassed. Description pravided. Suspect located. Matter handled in accordance with victim's request VANDALISM: Windowbroken bybeerbottle. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Report of possible fight in progress .. All quiet on arri-vaL.. occupants had noknowledge of incident. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: BB/BS car involved iri auto accident offcampus. No injuries-minor property damage. VANDALISM: Second window brokenwithin 24 hours. UNAUTHORIZED USE: Staffmember' s office area being used by others without pennission including phone for ;toll charges. FALSE FiRE ALARM: Accidental activation of pull box. THEFT: Student's (ocked car_entered throughpreviously broken window. Car searched-pocketknife stolen. LIFE. SAFETY VIOLATION: Fire safety equipment damaged. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. STUDENT RELATIONS: Misuse of strident escort service. · THEFT: Student;sjacket stolen from unlocked locker. W .allet and keys found intact. UNADTHOiUZED ACCESS: Mechanical room entered and water valve turned off. Water line serviced three campus buildings. No damage occurred. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Staff member's parked car damaged by hit and tun driver. VANDALISM: Several window panes broken. PROPERTY I>AMA.GE: Barrier chain padlock damaged. TH;EFT: Property stolen from ho1;1se . .Suspects identified. Property recovered and returned to owner. No further action requested. · PROPERTY DAMAGE: Window framedamaged as aresu1t of ongoing abuse caused by improper entering and exiting of building. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Unregistered. THEFT: Life sized cutout of Tony The Tiger stolen fmm display area SAFETY HAZARD: Fire exits blocked. Situation rectified. FIRE ALARM: Caused by smoke from cooking in kitchenette. VANDALISM/HARASSMENT: Student'sroom door damaged- second time within a few weeks. Obscene graffiti written on door. VANDALISM: Ceiling tile damaged-2nd floor. SAFETY HAZARD~ Improper parking by concert attendees created safety hazard along roadways in area. LI:FE SAFETY VIOLATION: Life Safety Violation Notice filc:;d for propping entry door THEFT: Items stolen ftom attendant's desk area. ARSON/RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT: Minor fire caused when persons unknown set off or threw a flare type device into the house. SFD called to scene .. No injuries reported. Minor damage to rug. SFD arson investigator took evidence into custody. House evacuated for approximately one hour until smoke cleared. VANDALISM: Lounge chair broken. PARKING VIOLATION: Student altered atemporary parking permit.. Conduct charges flied. Don'tVegetate, Come Meditate Union C<lllege's Departments ofVisual Art'S, East Asian Studies, Mondem Languages and Literature, Philosophy, UNIT AS, and Asian Students UniO'n will host Zen Master Roshi Keido Fukushima from March 12 through March 14. Returnin.g to the campus for his·third visit, Abbott FukishimaofTofukuji, one of the most famous Zen temples iln Kyoto, Japan, will give a presentation <ln Zen Buddism andgive a Zen calligraphy demonstra- tion at the College Center Auditorium as the first of his three part lecture series, \Many have marveled at the dynamic and graceful movements in Roshi's strokes with his big brushes. His accomplished calligra- phy is well known in Japan,\ said Assistant Professor Kahn. The seco11d part of the series and the main lecture, \Free in Zen\ will take place on Friday, March 13 at 8:00PM in the audit6rium as well. Thi~ lecture will focus on the elimniation ofthe ego by ~'emptying one's mind.\ The third! part is an actual practice Zazen (sitting meditation) at 11 AM, in Hale House Dining Room on Saturday, March 14. Roshi and his two disciples will help students through an active practice med-itation. A pillow is required for this session and all are welcome. -Stephanie Slobotkin -News Editor I I . l c I1 s li r c I s a r [ s t] tc n c fi p h d it a d Ji e 1< t< c tc t1

W~.e C!Innroroi.ensis The Student Newspaper of Union College Since· 18 77 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Jonathan Gasthalter ED/1VR-IN-CHIEF David Blatt Amy DiBattista EXECUTIVE EDITORS Christopher G. Leone MANAGING EDITOR Peter Simon OPINIONS EDITOR Michael DeMicco Stephanie Slobotkin NEWS EDITORS Christopher Leone SPORTS EDITOR Liam Joynt WORLD NEW.) EDITOR Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Lori Greene KimRohback ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT • EDITORS. Robert Hagopian COMPUTER MANAGER Michelle Tham FEATURES EDITOR Aaron Braunstein David Meguerdichian PHOTO EDITORS Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Victoria Hargreaves SCIENCE & TECH EDITOR Jennifer Pelose COPY EDITOR 1'/IOTOGRAPI/ER.)'. Paul D'Annibale, Rick Lederer, Sloan Miller, Cory Silken, Kate Stefanik, Maura Woessner. STIFF: Matt Aronowitz, Anjali Balasingham, Kelen Barr, Hannah Blum, Tracy Boriskin, Jaime Chandler, Jay Connelly, Shan a Dangelo, Jim DeWan, Jason Goldberg, Heath Fradkoff, David Kay, Adrian MacLean, Ryan Marshall, Cono•r McKenzie, Pike Mody, Nick Papanickolas, Lisa Pertoso, Lee Polikoff, Aileen Quigley, Eugene Schultz, Neha Shah, Frank Rossi, Rebecca Thyresson, David Weiner, Maura Wittbold, Ben Yaffee. ' ;..'Jttsitli? t'hiS IssUe- ·· .. · . . . ~ ·. ',: . . : . . ·. . (. \ ... \ . : . . ' . . . . ' . . :. ' . ' : ' . News 2 Science & Technology 7 Opinions 10 Campus News Campus Security Report UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23,1998 THROUGH MONDAY, MARCH 2,1998 DATF/HME LOCATION MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1'998: I 0:25 AM Library La1~e 4:00PM 5:18PM 6:16PM Becker Hall Alumni Gym Union Street TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1998: 7:06 AM Becker Hall 8:54 AM Campus Operations 9:51 PM Raymond House WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1998: I 0: I 0 AM Nott Sewcud Lot 3:50PM 6:16PM 7:45PM Psi Upsilon South College Alumni Gym THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1998: 10:10 AM SouthCollege 1:50PM Achilles Lot 5:52PM Whitaker llou:sc FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1998: 3:37AM AlexandcrLane 3:51 AM Fraternity 8:45AM 10:30 AM 3:00PM 7:15PM Fox North Achilles Lot West Dining Fieldhouse SATURDAY, FERRUAR\'28, 1998~ 6:59 PM North College 7:16PM SouthCollege 10:38 PM West College SUNDAY, MARCH I, 1998: 2:55 PM Library Lane Area INCIDENT HARASSMENT: Student reponed being followed and verbally harassed. Description provided. Suspect located. Matter handled in accordance with victim's request. VANDALISM: Window broken by beer bottle. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Report of possible fight in progress. All quiet on arrival. .. occupants had HO knowledge of incident. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: BB/BS car involved in auto accident off campus. No injuries-minor property damage. VANDALISM: Second window broken within 24 hours. UNAUTHORIZED USE: Staff member's office area being used by others withol!lt permission including phone for toll chaliges. FALSE FIRE ALARM: Accidental activation of pull box. THEFT: Student's locked car entered through previously broken \\indo\\. Car searched-pocketknife stolen. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Fire safety equipment damaged. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. STUDENT RELATIONS: Misuse of student escort service. THEFT: Student'sjacket stolen from unlocked locker. Wallet and keys found intact. UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS: Mechanical room entered and water valve turned off. Water line serviced three campus buildings. No damage occurred. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Staff member's parked car damaged by hit and run driver. VANDALISM: Several window panes broken. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Barrier chain padlock damaged. THEFT: Property stolen from house. Suspects identified. Property recovered and returned to owner. No further action requested. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Window frame damaged as a result of ongoing abuse caused by improper entering and exiting ofbuilding. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Unregistered. THEFT: Life sized cutout of Tony The Tiger stolen from display area. SAFETY HAZARD: Fire exits blocked. Situation rectified. FIRE ALARM: Caused by smoke from cooking in kitchenette. V ANOALISMJHARASSMENT: Student's room door damaged- second time within a few weeks. Obscene graffiti \Hillen on door. VANDALISM: Ceiling tile damaged-2\d floor. Features 14 \ 5.30 PM Davidson South SAFETY HAZARD: Improper parking by concert attendees created safety hazard along roadways in area. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Life Safety Violation Notice filed for propping entry door Arts & Entertainment.· 18 . ·,., . ·-:_ : .... 8:44PM Alumni Gym MONDAY, MARCll2, 1998: 12:31 AM Edward::; House 8:07AM 8:36AM Davidson Lounge Achilles Lot THEFT: Items stolen from attendant's desk area. ARSON/RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT: Minor fire caused when persons unknown set off or threw a flare type device into the house. SFD called to scene. No injuries reported. Minor damage to rug. SFD arson investigator took evidence into custody. House evacuated for approximately one hour until smoke cleared. VANDALISM: Lounge chair broken. PARKING VIOLATION: Student altered a temporary parking permit. Conduct charges filed. Don't Vegetate, Come Meditate Union College's Departments of Visual Arfs, East Asian Studies, Mondem Languages and Literature, Philosophy, UNIT AS, and Asian Students Union will host Zen Master Roshi Keido Fukushima from March 12 through March 14. Returning to the campus for his third visit, Abbott Fukishima ofTofukuji. one of the most famous Zen temples in Kyoto, Japan, will give a presentation on Zen Budd ism and give a Zen calligraphy demonstra- tion at the College Center Auditorium as the first of his three part lecture series. \Many have marveled at the dynamic and graceful movements in Roshi's strokes with his big brushes. His accomplished calligra- phy is well known in Japan,\ said Assistant Professor Kahn. The second part of the series and the main lecture, \Free in Zen\ will take plal:c on Friday, March I 3 at 8:00PM in the auditorium as well. This lecture will focus on the elimniation of the ego by ''emptying one's mind.\ The third rart is an actual practice Za7cn (<;itting meditation) at 11 AM, in I I ale I louse Dining Ruomon Saturda'. !VIarch 1<1 Rmhi and hi~ two di~cipk' \ill help '-tudenh throu;;h ;m actin· pr;IL·ticc mcditatiur: A pillow is required for this session and all are welcome -Stephanie Slobotkin - News Editor ;. I ,. !'I I• \ '1 1\ i I i i tl s c e I ~ c a n a l a s e tl b c n s h 0 a p I- e a a tl c E s c a \1 h I= a ( a t1 c a a p n s tl tc; rr C1 f€ p lt: d ir 0 Jc e· lc tc Cl tc ~~ [

I 1 Union Boasts Strong Applicant Pool by Marisa Schneer Contributing Writer. The word around campus is that the fll.ture class of 2002 will con- sist of the most academically in- clined students Union College has ever accepted. Dan Lundquist, Dean of Admissions, eagerly in· f()rmed me, that the rumor is in fact correct. He explained that the level of the applicantpool for next year's fresh- man class, is about the same as the averages of the other three classes. Usually, the lowest average is the ~pplicant pool, because it includes students with the lowest and high- est GPAs. Once the school selects the students most quaiified, the bottom of the pooi is cut out. This eleatly shows that the future fresh- man class, will in fact, have higher statistics than the other classes have in the past. Despite the rising academic level of Union applicants, Lundquist assured me that \Union's philoso- phy of selection\ has not changed. He stated that \the most important emphasis is put on the transcript and recommendations. Yet, as the applicants become more qualified essays and i.nte.rviews do become slightly more important. We want _ to continue the great personality of Union. This year, we're really looking at tile Jlersonal presenta- tion. Like for.i!nsta!lce, a kid we can see running tile fa:Shion show, or writing for thoe Concordiensis. Someone wh() wUI really stand out in the stude11t bod.y.\ Lundquist is very excitellwi:tllthegeographic diversity of 111e next freshman class. He explained, \For years, the majority of()mrstudents were com- ing from New York. This year be- low half oftbe !!pplicants are from . New York Sta;te. Students are now sending in appli<:ations from 37 states, and 3()- foreign countries.\ Lundquist gives a lot of credit for this geographic diversity to the 1600 alumni representing Union all overthe world, sttpplying infonna- tion and interviewing potential ap- plicants. So what is drawing all these stu- dents towards 0our little College in Schenectady? According to Lundquist, '\the word is getting out. How marny 2()0 year old col- leges are stillarmmd and still have room to grow? Union's diversity is also a big draw. Not necessarily cultural diversity, but diversity in tenns of interest, value, and back- ground.\ Sophomore Sarah Rosen replied, \ People are realizing that it isn't that important to go to an Ivy League school. Union offers students the opportunity to work closely with professors. The edu- cation here is more personal. Ap- plicants most probably recognize the benefits a small school, such as ours, has to offer.\ According to Lundquist, this, year is going to be the hardest year to earn acceptance into Union; \We have no intentions ofincreas- ing the number of students per class, in fact we may even have to admit fewer. This is mainly due to · the current sophomore class, which consists·of590 students in- stead of the usual 520. Tile reason that year was different from others was because we were so excited with the applicants, that we ac- ceptedmorethen usual (assuming that many would decline). The as- sumption was wrong and we ended up with a larger class then in- tended. These past few years have . been really great for us. I'm just proud that Union is breaking these records.\ A Chiropractic Adjustment at Wells by Marin Richardson Contributing Writer The Wells House health issues month concl:)lded with a sharp crack on February 24th as Or. Jerry Brescia, a chiropractor, demon- strated his technique for a group of~ttentive students. Dr. Brescia, a 1990 Union College graduate, pro- \oked both laug.hter and groans as he Went through his usual clinical procedure with student \Cory\ as a patient. After a day of skiing, Cory was experiencing some back and neck pain and volunteered for the examination. Through a series of questions about past history and current complaints and an ex- amination to determine areas of pain, reduced range of motion, and muscle spasms, Dr. Brescia deter- mined which. pa:rtsofCory's spine needed correcil:ion. Using a motdel of the spine for reference, he :sh()wed how twist- ing or compression of different sections of vertebrae can produce pain. Numer~usnerves can be af- fected by any def0onnation of the spine and may produce many, seemingly u11connectedproblems. For instance~ at Chiropractic As- sociates in Niskayuna, Dr. Brescia has dealt witlt patients suffering ftom migraines~ chronic pneumo~ nia, menstrual p:ain~ paralysis, and more. With all exercise highlight- ing the fact that we often impose borders on otuselves, he pointed out that chir()pTactors can often help patients with problems which are not as ()bY]()usly connected with the spine as simple back or neck pain are. Invoking his one third rule, namely, that after a typical \adjust- ment\ one third of patients will feel better, one third will feel nothing, and one third will feel sore, Dr. Brescia performed an adjustment on Cory, the volunteer. The pro- cess consisted of a series ofquick compressions and twists while Cory lay in varied positions and produced a number of cracking noises as joints readjusted. Though a few viewers shuddered, the adjustment appeared quite ef- fective and one student who had previously had an adjustment de- scribed it as \the best, most reliev- ing experience in the world.\ The workshop was interesting and en- lightening and left a pleased audi- ence and a satisfied path:nt. Sigma Chi Hosts Nintendo Contest by Jon Kelson Conttihuting Writer Sigma Chi hosted its first ever Super Mario Kart Tournament for the Nintendo 64 video game sys- tem two weeks ago. The tourna- ment was a rousing success, wel- coming anyone and everyone who felt that they had what it takes to pull Mario into first place. The chal- lengers and spectators alike were duly impressed with the life-like imagery as Mario and Luigi sped across the big screen, avoiding ·obstacles and bounding over hills. Jeremy Spiegel; organizer of the event, commented that \it takes a lot of hard work and determination to play with the big boys, espe- cially in Nintendo.\ This proved to be true as the play continued throughout the evening. At the end of the night; the last man standing was sophomore Pete Tomasi as he ~;as crowned Super Mario Kart Ch;ampion. Tomasi proved he h&d the l'lecessary skills by battling bis we1y through the bracket in a gmeling test of con- centration, cEe'Verness, and pa- tience. Only an equally shrewd Henry Grant stCJml in Tomasi's way as the green lig!Jt flashed at the start of the fin;all race. In the nail- biter, the group was expecting, Tomasi edged. bis way to victory .over the disbe~tt.ened Grant, the runner-up. Grant laterv()wed, ''I'll get him next time.\ Tomasi showed true . . sportsmansbip~ stating, \Henry had a great race; :it really could have gone either way. I just guess my hours ofpracticefinally paid off.\ the crowd om !land was. quite vi- vacious, shoilting words of en- couragement Clltd advice to the in- tense competitors all night. Noth- ing would distract these racers, however, as their complete atten- tion was given to being the first to cross the finish line. After the race, many played exhibition games · for fun, the purpose of the evening. The students who took part and those who simply watched had a great time and nea11ly all left with smiles on their faces. The tournament gave students a chance to break th.e monotony of studying. Sophomore Roger McShane brought his \little brother\ to join in the festivities. McShane stated that both he and his \little brother\ had a greattime. Sigma Chi looks forward to host- ing other Thursday night events for the campus such as ''Movie Night\ and \Comedy H()ur.\ Be sore to keep your eyes peeled for these fun and · Campus News The Robert Avon Smith, Class of 1952 fellowship is awarded to students in the sciences or engineering programs who participate in a summer research program in bio-medical engineering under the guidance of Union College faculty. For applications, please contact Professor J. Richard Shanebrook in the Department of Mechanical Engineering. The Mrs. Edwin L. Rich Prize is awarded to the student \who has built the best collection of books for use during college.\ The prize, a $300 gift certificate, will be awarded this year. The col- lectioil should be a comprehensive and humane one, promoting development of both character and intellect. Guidelines: I) The number of volumes in the candidate library must be at least 50 books owned by the student and marked with his/her name or bookplace. 2) Paperbacks may be included; college textbooks may not. 3) 'The collection must be centered around a theme; either a particular subject, or author, or time period. The student must pro- vide asingle page essay describing the collection, how and why it was formed, and how it is most used by the student. This essay should include some mention of plans for additional development of the I ibraiy, with examples of authors, topics, or specific titles. 4) l'he collection should. reflect use for college studies or re- search. Schedule: a) The contestant must submit a list ofhislher books, and the aforementioned essay, to Maribeth Krupczak, Schaffer Library. Deadline for submission is March 30'\ 1998. b) Judging will take place in early April at the student's resi- dence. Seniors: If you are interested in speaking at the Baccalaureate or Commencement, submit a 1-4 page draft (5 minutes) to Judy . Ludwig, Secretary to the Dean of the Faculty and member of the Commencement Committee, by Friday, April 17. The topic is yours to choose. Please include your name, box, and phone num- ber on your draft. If you are interested in singing at the Bacca- laureate or Commencement, please submit your name to Judy Ludwig, by Friday, April17. If you would like more information, contact Judy Ludwig at x6J 02 or at the Dean ofFaculty's Office, second floor Feigenbaum Hall. Auditions for speakers and se- niors will be be held at 6:30PM on April 29 & 30. The English Dept. invites all students to enter the following writ- ing competitions. Prizes will awarded on prize day. The deadline for submissions is Friday, April3. 1. The Allen Essay Prize: Awarded to a senior of any major for the best non-fiction essay. 2. Academy of American Poets Prize: Award sponsored by the Academy of American Poets for the best peom or collection of poems by a Union undergraduate. 3. The Van Orden Prize: Awarded to a first-year student for the best non-fiction essay. Students are particularly encouraged to submit essays written for the Freshman Preceptorial; all work should be revised for entry. 4. The Hale Prize: Awarded to a sophomore or junior for the best non-fiction essay. 5. The Yudis Prize: Awarded to a student in any class for the best work of fiction. Directions for submitting entries: 1. Label the entry with a pseudonym. Write the pseudonym on the entry itself and on the outside of a small envelope. Enclose your real name, phone, and address in the small envelope. 2. Write name of priz~ you are competing for on large manilla envelope and place entry and small envelope inside. 3. DeUver envelope to Prof. lossel, Humn: 21 0-B, no later than 4:00pm on Friday, Apri14. Questions may be addressed to Prof. Iossel. $1 ,000 Poetry Contest. The Texas Poetry society is offering a $1,000 grand prize in their annual poetry contest open to the pub- lic. TQ.ere is no entry fee and everyone is invited to submit a poem. To enter, send one poem, 21 lines or less to: Free Poetry Contest, 1712E.RiversideDr.,Suite 147,AustinTX, 78741. Or enter on-line at www.freecontest.com. The deadline for entries . is April 7. Winners will be notified on or before August 31, 1998. Love poems are being sought in a free peotry contest sponsored by the Reno Fine Arts Institute. Grand prize is $1,000, with 28 prizes to be awarded. The contest is open to everyone. To enter, send one poem, 21 lines or less to: Free Contest. 316 California Ave., Ste. 626, Reno, NV 89509-1669. Deadline is March 31.

I \ ,, [! i' Union Boasts Strong Applicant Pool by Marisa Schneer Contributing Writer The word around campus is tfuat the futwre class of 2002 will con- sist of the most academically in- clined students Uni()n Co11ege has ever accepted. Dan Lundquist, Dean of Admissions, eagerly in- formed me, that the rumor is in fact correct. He explained that the level ofthe applicant peal fornext year's fresh- man class, is about the same as the averages ofthe other three classes. Usually, the lowest average is the applicant pool, because it includes students with the lowest and high- est GPAs. Once the school selects the students most qualified, the bottom of the pool is cut out. This clearly shows that the future fresh- man class, wiU in fact, have higher statistics than the other classes have in the past. Despite the rising academic level of Union applicants, Lundquist assured me that \Union's philoso- phy of selection\ has not changed. He stated that \the most important emphasis is put on the transcript and recommendations. Yet, as the applicants become more qualified essays and interviews do become slightly more important. We want to continue the great perso.nality of Union. This year, we're really looking at the personal presenta- tion. Like for instance, a kid we can see runAing the fashion show, or writing for the Concordiensis. Someone who will really stand out in the student body.\ Lundquist is very excited with the geographic diversity of the next freshman class. He explained, \For years, the majority of our students were com- ing from New York. This year be- low half of the applicants are from New York State. Students are now sending in aJJplications from 37 states, and 30 foreign countries.\ Lundquist gives a lot of credit for this geograplJic diversity to the 1600 alumni representing Union all over the world, supplying informa- ti()n and interviewing potential ap- plicants. So what is drawing all these stu- dents towards our little College in Schenectady'? According to Lundquist, \the word is getting out. How ma11y 200 year old col- leges are sti II around and still have room to grow'? Union's diversity is also a big draw. Not necessarily cultural diversity, but diversity in terms of interest, value, and back- ground.\ Sophomore Sarah Rosen replied,'\ People are realizing that it isn't that important to go to an Ivy League school. Union offers students tile opportunity to work closely with professors. The edu- cation here is more personal. Ap- plicants most probably recognize the benefits a small school, such as ours, has to offer.\ According to Lundquist, this year is going to be the hardest year to earn acceptance into Union; \We have no intenti()ns of increas- ing the number of students per class, in fact we may even have to admit fewer. This is mainly due to the current sophomore class, which co11sists of 590 students in- stead ()ftlte usual520. The reason that year was different from others was because we were so excited with the applicants, that we ac- cepted more then usual (assuming that many would decline). The as- sumption was wrong and we ended up with a larger class then in- tended. These past few years have been really great for us. I'm just proud that Union is breaking these records.\ A Chiropractic Adjustment at Wells by Marin Richardson Contributing Writer The Wells House health issues month concl.uded with a sharp crack on February 24th as Dr. Jerry Brescia, a chiropractor, demon- strated his technique for a group of attentive students. Dr. Brescia, a 1990 Union College graduate, pro- voked both laughter and groans as he went through his usual clinical procedure with student \Cory\ as a patient. After a day of skiing, Cory was experiencing some back and neck pain and volunteered for the examination. Through a series of questions about past history and current complaints and an ex- amination to determine areas of pain, reduced range of motion. and muscle spasms, Dr. Brescia deter- mined which parts ofCory's spine needed correction. Using a model of the spine for reference, he showed how twist- ing or compression of different sections of vettebrae can produce pain. Numerous nerves can be af- fected by any deformation of the spine and may produce many, seemingly unconnected problems. For instance, at Chiropractic As- sociates in Niskayuna, Dr. Brescia has dealt with patients suffering from migraines. chronic pnetJmo- nia, menstrua 1 pain. paralysis. and more. With an exercise highlight- ing the fact that we often impose borders on ourselves. he pointed out that chiropractors can often help patients vvith problems which are not as obviously connected with the spine as simple back or neck pain are. Invoki11g his one third rule. namel:y, that after a typical \adjust- ment\ one third of patients will feel better, one third will feel nothing, and one third will feel sore. Dr. Brescia performed an adjustment on Cory, the volunteer. The pro- cess consisted of a series of quick compressions and twists while Cory lay in varied positions and produced a number of cracking noises as joints readjusted. Though a few viewers shuddered, the adjustment appeared quite ef- fective and one student who had previously had an adjustment de- scribed it as \the best, most reliev- ing experience in the world.\ The worksll()p was interesting and en- lightening and left a pleased audi- ence and a satisfied patient. Sig01a Chi Hosts Nintendo Contest by Jon Kelson Co11tributing Writer man standing was sophomore Pete tense competitors all night. Noth- Tomasi as he was crowned Super ing w<Juld distract these racers, Mario Kart Champion. Tomasi however, as their complete atten- Sigma Chi hosted its first ever proved he had the necessary skills tion was given to being the first to Super Mario Kart T()umament for by battling his way through the cross the fin ish I in e. After the the Nintendo 64 video game sys- bracket in a grueling test of con- race, many played exhibition games tern two weeks ago. The tourna- centration, cleverness, and pa- for fun. the purpose of the ment was a rousing success, wei- tience. Only an equally shrewd evening. The students who took coming anyone and everyone who Henry Grant stood in Tomasi's way part and those who simply watched felt that they had what it takes to as the green light flashed at the had a great time and nearly all left pull Mario into first place. The chal- start of the final race. In the nail- with smiles on their faces. lengers and spectators alike were biter, the grotip was expecting, The tournament gave students duly impressed wit11 the life-like Tomasi edged his way to victory a chance to break the monotony of imagery as Mario and Luigi sped over the disheartened Grant, the studying. Sophomore Roger across the big screen, avoiding runner-up. McShane brought his \little obstacles and bounding over hills. Grant later V()wed, ''I' II get him brother\ to join in the festivities. Jeremy Spiegel, organizer of the next time.\ Tomasi showed true McShane stated that both he and event, commented that \it takes a sportsmanship, stating, \Henry his \little brother\ had a great time. lot of hard work and determination had a great race; it really could have Sigma 01i looks forward to host- to play with the big boys, espe- gone either way. I just guess my ing otller Thursday night events cially in Nintendo.\ This proved hours of practice finally paid off.\ for the campus such as \Movie to be true as the play continued The crowd on lland was quite vi- Night\ a11d \Comedy Hou1·.\ Be 9~S • Page 3. Campus News The R()bert Avon Smith, Class of I '952 fellowship is awarded to stude11ts in the sciences or engineering programs wllo participate in a summer research program in bi()-tnedical engineering under the guidance of Union College faculty. For applications, please contact Professor J. Richard Shanebrook in the Department of Mechanical Engineering. The Mrs. Edwin L. Rich Prize is awarded to the student \who has built the best collection of books for use during college.\ The prize, a $300 gift certificate, will be awarded this year. The col- lectioll should be a comprehensive and humane one~ promoting development of both character and intellect. Guidelines: I) The number of volumes in the candidate library must be at least 50 books owned by the student and marked with his/her name or bookplace. 2) Paperbacks may be included; C()llege textbooks may not. 3) The collection must be centered around a theme; either a particular subject, or atithor, or time period. The student must pro- vide a single page essay describing the collection, how and why it was formed, and how it is most used by the student. This essay should include some mention of plans for additiOI~al development of the I ibrary, with examples of authors, topics, or specific titles. 4) The collection should reflect use for college studies or re- search. Schedule: a) The contestant must submit a I ist of his/her books~ and the aforementioned essay, to Maribeth Krupczak, Schaffer Library. Deadline for submission is March 30 1 \ 1998. b) Judging will take place in early April at the student's resi- dence. Seniors: If you are interested in speaking at the Baccalaureate or Commencement, submit a 1-4 page draft (5 minutes) to Judy Ludwig. Secretary to the Dean ofthe Faculty and memberofthe Commencement Committee, by Friday, April 17. Hte topic is yours to choose. Please include your name, box, and phone num- ber on your draft. If you are interested in singing at the Bacca- laureate or Commencement, please submit your name to Judy Ludwig, by Friday,April\7. Ifyouwoulcllike more information, contact Judy l ,udwig at .x6 I 02 or at t l1e Dean of Faculty's Office, second tlnor Feigenbaum Hall. Allditions fi.1r speakers and se- niors will be be held at 6:30PM on April29 & 30. The Eng I ish Dept. invites all students to enter the folio \Ving \\ rit- ing competitions. Prizes will awarded on prize day. The deadline for submissions is Friday, April}. I. The A lien Essay Pri1.c: A \\ardcd to a senior uf any major f~1r the best non-fiction essay. 2. Academy of American Poets Prize: A\-\ard sponsored by the Academy of American Poets for the best peom or collection of poems by a Union undergraduate. 3. The Van Orden Prize: Awarded to a first-year student for the best non-fiction essay. Students are particularly encouraged tn submit essays written for the freshman PreceptoriaL all \\ork should be revised for entry. 4. The Hale Prize: Awarded to a sophomore or junior for the best non-fiction essay. 5. The Yudis Prize: Awarded to a student in any class for the best work of fiction. Directions for submitting entries: I. Label the entry with a pseudony111. Write the pseudony.m lm the entry itself and on the outside Gf a small enveloJle. Enclose your real name. phone, and address in the small enveklpe. 2. Write name of prize you are competing for on large manilla envelope and place entry and small envelope ins ide. 3. Deliver envelope to Prof. Iossel, Hurnn: 210-B. no later than 4:00pm on Friday, April4. Questions may be addressed to PrGf. Iossel. $1,000 Poetry Contest. The Texas Poetry society is offering a $1,000 grand prize in their annual poetry contest open to the pub- lic. There is no entry fee and everyone is invited t'-l submit a poem. To enter, send one poem, 21 lines or less to: Free Poetry Contest, 1712 E. Riverside Dr .. Suite 14 7. Austin TK 7 8741. Or enter on-line at www.freecontest.com. The deadline fc..1r entries is April7. Winners wi II be notified on or before l\ugt1st ) 1. l QQ8. throughout the evening. vacious, shouting words of en- sure to keep your eyes peeled for Love poems are being sought in a free peotl) contest sponsored At the end of the night, the last couragement ~nd advice to the in- these fun and exciting gatherings. by the Reno Fine Arts Institute. Grand priLc is $1.000, '\ ith 28 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ priLc~to bca\arJcJ. I\llc~uiltc~t i~ upc11 tuc\~f)0Il~ l ~~ ciJlcr. ==u....:...~=-.=.:...;;.....;;..t send one poem. 21 I ines or less to: Free Ct )n test. ~ I 11 Ca IiI~ lrll ia Ave., Ste. h26. Reno. NV 8950Q-166 1 J Deadline i~ \-1an:h ~ l

Student Forum Minutes 3/2/98 VP Fin -C<>mmittee decided to take back the $4J83 from Big Brothers/ Big Sisters. They received a car as a-donation, therefore the money reverts back to the holding account. Patrik Speaks Out Against Media -motion (Delorenzo): to take back the $4383 from the major equipment budget line of Big Brothers/ Big Sisters (minus $53.95 for decals). Passed. - U Med. requested $680 for the purchase t.Jfa pulseoximeter motion (Delorenzo): to allocate $680 for a pulseoxirneter passed. VPAdmin - Humanist Club constitu~ion approved by the COC looking to provide a forum for humanist implllses on campus motion (Dougerty): to approve the Humanist club constitution -passed VP Social - Concern that the Concert Cmnee co-chairs -booking agents. will not work with the co-chairs because they are \unprofessional\ and they would rarther work with high schoO'I students - There had been a possibility that Dave Mathews coming and they did not move quick enough motion (Rossi}: recommend to the COC that the concert committee co-chairs be dismissed pending a COC investigation of their performance as co-chairs, with the understand- ing that the SF has the desire to bring a big name l>and to the student body -passed VP Academic- no meeting this week next meeting will discuss the stravv ballot and the approval of new courses VP Multicultural- Surveys printed and going out this week Race relations discussions :Need the forum to help as facilitators Trustees-met with the Stillman prize cmttee Sophomores willnow be allowed to nominate teachers IFC- planning Greek Week forthe J31h-I81h of April Fratstock is the I sr Saturday of May PanHel- had luncheon with House Presidents, Socials, and Treasurers and the sch()ol counsel. Discussed the liability isslles of SWAT. Still working out the Good Samaritan clause THC- brochure coming out next week Class Reports SR- Senior Slack-offpartyatChet's this Friday Possible after thesis at the Van Dyke JR- Hospital pants selling well. Generic ones comi11g next week SOPH• Mugs are in, willgo on sale Wednesday for S5 Battle ofthe Bands Pres. Hull will finance it FRESH- BBQ for spring maybe combine it with the battle ofthe bands Committee Reports SAC- Ludlow House did not get renewed housing space now avail. QDC reviewal on Wednesday The Society reviewal on Thursda,- Mardi Gras Celebration Comes to Union · ... continuedfrompage 1 David studied English and Ted tried to ·mold David to become a Kaczynski took to Math and Sci- duplicate of himself; he wanted ence. • David to do eve)'ything he did- The subject matter coupled with not date in high school, go offctn<l the time period of their study, in live in nature, hate technology,an<i Patrik's opinion, may have encour\ have nothing to do with worn~n. aged Ted's rage. \In the Jate six- • All the things that Ted did, he ties, forexample, Iwenttocollege wanted David to duplicate, or he and took Physics and Math, but I would become extremely angry.\ rejected that and a lot of people In 1991, Patrik, along with Iter like me rejected Math and Science husband, took some letters .tliat because of technology. We saw Kaczynski wrote to them and had technology as contributing to the them analyzed by a psychiatrist. Vietnam Wareffori,\ Patrik contin- The letters were extremely ne~a- ued. \~lot of people dropped out tive, violent and insulting. It VIas ofMath and Science at that time. clear to them that he was mentally Ted did not. He went into very disturbed and they decided to •)OC>k abstract Mathematics. Even . into having Ted committed .. W:ith though he vv:asn't ~ery political. . .it some remorse, David Kaczy11ski was just jn the air at the time. There and Patrik found that it was ex- was a kind of back-to-nature tremely difficult to have anyone move.\ Patrik continued: \I think committed. \The. psychiatristsftid at most places the math courses that it was extremely hard to h.ave being taugh.t are taken by engi- someone committed unless ti:Jey neers. Engineers of course are de- had harmed someone or had al~ veloping technology, so Ithink he ready harmed themselves, and we didn't like the fact that most of his had no ev·idence .of him having teaching work was somehow con- harmed anyone.\ The only evi- tributing to technology.\ dence of therapy found in The Conr::ordiensis learned of · Kaczynski's Montana home were the arrest ofTed Kaczynski in April some letters of corresponde'Ilce of 1996, and we encountered a therapy, and medication to tre~t a multitude of solicitations to '~dig sleeping problem. ••He definitely up dirt\ on Professor Patrik. To does not believe that he's crazy - learn more about the situation, does not think he is mentally ill. members of the staff observed a He just thought he had a sleeping media mob at Keyes Avenue, the problem,\ Patriksaid. home of Patrik and David The early efforts of Patrik :and Kaczynski. Reporters remained her husband helped them later outside their home for roughly a when they deduced that the Mani- week, taking away what little pri- festo printed in The New York vacy the couple had after the ar- Times and the Washington P()st rest. Itwasatthis.pointthatPatrik was authored by Ted Kaczy11skL aiJ,4 her husband became public · Thereweretremendoussimilarities figures, .something they had in the language that they had seen: ~greed with the FBI to avoid. in the violent letters over the years~ When Patrik and her husband Patrik resorted to her o-ldest cllilc- contacted the FBI, it was under hood friend, Susan Swanso11 of their tenns. ••susan Swanson had Chicago, Illinois. for assistance. · drawn up alist of nine conditions . . Swanson is a private investig11tor, .. that mostly had to do with ex- and when Patrik C()ncluded tit at a eluding Tecl as a suspect, in other writing analysis should be done on words, insteadofjumping the gun, the letters and Manifesto, Piltrik. we wanted the FBI to search ou.t confided in Swanson. \We knew evidence very carefully, so they thatwecouJdtrusther~absolutely. would exclude Ted as a suspect by Lisa Pertoso Staff Writer Last Tuesday, February 24th, the usual tea atthe Nott Memorial was transformecl into the first annual Mardi Gras celebration. Students and faculty alike enjoyed tea, French pastries and wonderfuljazz music provided by professors and students. meaning has slightly changed and I didn't know anyone else we cou.ltl because we knew he was crazy. We is expressed illthecityofNewOr- trust.\ knewhewasmentallyunstable. We leans which is famous for annually There were many clues tit at were afraid that if the FBI showed hosting an extravagant Mardi Gras linked Ted Kaczynski to the up at his doorstep in Montana that celebration. ln New Orleans, a Unabomber, but Patrik providecl he would lose it, basically have a heavily Christian city colonized by insight into what may have trig- breakdown and lose it and perhaps Spaniards andlthe French, Mardi gered the anti-technology senti- he wouid become violent, even if Gras brings all different religious ments of her brother in law. Fin- he were innocent. We didn't know and music cultures together for a pointing what triggered Ted to if he was guilty or innocent, but party that continues for weeks. have these negative sentiments we knew that he was crazy. We The association of music with was an incredibly complex problem. wanted the FBI to seek other kinds Mardi Gras also originates from The family was always interested of evidence without meeting Ted New Orleans and the spirit of jazz in nature from the earliest years of in person.\ was brought to Union by a perfor- their childhood, but beyond that Other conditions included a safe mance of talented professors and point the two brothers lleade<i in arrest and the promise to maintain supposed to reveal that they had turned in Ted; but that trust was quickly broken. \We felt screwed by the FBI,\ Pat~ik said. The FBI had had a chance tp tell David Kaczynski that their names had leaked out wben they phoned David the day of the arrest, but they never mentioned anything, It was from the CBS Evening News broadcast that the couple learned that their rdle had been revealed. Dan Rather reported that Oavid had \fingered his brother,\ and they felt betrayed. For rou:ghlyone week Patrik, her husband and mother-in-law sat in their home avoiding the press; re- porters camped out on their lawn. \Local media were going through our garbage- watching us.\ The paparazzi approach to their story bothered Patrik, and' she felt ex- tremely v.iolated. \That first on- slaught, they had no ethics what- soever. They played vicious tricks on us ... tiiey [had] a mean streak in them.\ The family used this time to make family decisions. Among the most pressing of these issues was the decision not to profit from Ted's arrest, nor to grant interviews to the press .. Patrik's Concordiensis interview is only her third sincethis issue made headlines. The FBI had offered a reward for turning in the Unabomber, but Patrik and her hus- band have formed a committee to distribute the cne million dollars among the families of victims. In addition, their lawyer, Tony Bisceglie, needS' to be compen- sated for llistwo-year commitment to Patrik and her husband. Over tlte past two years, David Kaczynski launched a campaign against capital punishment and fought for IJis brother's life. Only eight of the nine terms and condi- tions tbatSwanson had drafted for them were approved by Attorney General Janet Reno. The ninth asked for abstention from the death penalty~ and this Reno re- fused. David Kaczynski, along with Patrik, have become spokesmen againstthe death penalty, and they intend to continue speaking out on this controversial issue. Patrik has carried many things away from this experience, but her reflecti()ns as a philosopher are particularly intriguing. Patrik has , lost respect for tremendous intel- lect as such. Genius needs to be coupled with the heart and loving relationships with people to have a positive impact on society. She has leamedftomtragic experience that \intellectual brilliance has The history ofMardi Gras, some- times called Fat Tuesday or Shrove Tuesday, occurs on the day before Ash Wednesday. This Wednes- day marks the first day of Lent, \hid1 i~ th..: beginning of the fort) Ja)sbclorc Easter, a Christian holi· day. The days of Lent, explained by Tom Fricberg, coordinator of the event and the Catholic Chap- lain at Un1on, traJitionally signifies a tiuH.: of fa~ting, literally and figu- ratively. Some give dmrity Juring this time which is an overall re- newal period. students. Tim Olsen, a professor a.....;..c..;;..o.;.;,m~.;..;;.;;.:;;.{......;;;d.;.;,if..;;..fe;.;r..;;;e.;.;;n,;;,t ~~=~-.,..;.....~;;..;.;;.;;.;.;;.;.;.;;,;.;;::..;.._T;;.;h;.;;.e;....;;...F;;;;.B.;;,.l...;.w;..;a;;;;;s...;.n;;.;:o;.;.t_::;_ __ ...::;.. _______ _ from the music department led cause we are so separated rromflle .------------------------------, \Long ago the fasting. uf Lent in ~ume culture~ was much more strict. Mardi Gras was seen as one last bash or party before the sacri~ flee of lent,'' said Fricberg. The Mardi Gras tradition started in E~­ rope, and through the years has become less strict and religious oriented. 111 the United States~ the Roger Noyes on guitar, Brian celebration in New Orleans. Mardi Gillman on trumpet, Garrett Brown Gras isn't a big deal in the NCJtth- on drums, and Don Arnold on trom- east.\ bone in lively jazz music: that ech- In the past, Mardi Gras wels a ocd throughout the Nott. The holiday that seemed to he ne- IL@,,ki24ii::C::iif.: band opened with the famous piece glcctcd in the nortl1 and sometimes \When the Saints Go Marching forgotten, but Union has decided In\. to recognize it this time by he.Jlin- Students and faculty took in the ninga new tradition ofcelebr;ttion jazz band while drinking tea, and and culture to the campus e\ery eating pastries. Andy Silverman year. \We'rethrilled itseemed.like '99 said of the celebration, \Not a success,\ commented Friei:Jerg very New Orle'!ans~esque, but they who also stated that the reas()n to did the best tlley could .. I had a celebrate Mardi Gras is \because good time.\ Aileen Quigley '98 it is such a fun tradition. Mardi expressed the importance behind Gras is for everyone and do~sn't recognizing Mardi Gras at Union have to tied to religions. It is a by saying, \I think it's great be- good excuse for celebration.,, ::·:\}\};j; ~

Student Forum Minutes 3/2/9'8 VP Fin -Committee decided to take back the $43&3 from Big Brothers/ Big Sister~. They reed ved a car as a donation, therefor~ tit c mm1ey reverb back to the holding account. Patrik Speaks Out Against Media -motion (De lorenzo): to take back the $43 &3 from the maj()r equipment budget line of Big Brothers/ Big Sisters (minu~ !j;53.95 fordecals). Passed. - U Med. requested $680 for the purchase of a pulseoximcte r motion (Delorenzo): to allocate $680 for a pulseoximeter .. cunt llllll!d frum page I tried to mold David to become a duplicate of himself; he wanted David to do evcrythiHg he diJ 110t date in high school, go off and live in nature, hate technology, and llave nothing to do with women. passed. VPAdmin - llumarrlist Club constitt'ltiun approved b) tlrlt.: COC looking to proviJc it forum for humanist impulses on campu~ moti0n (Dougcrty). to itpprove the Humanist club wnstitution -passed VP Social . A II the things that Ted did, he : -wanted David to duplicate, or he '\ ould become e.\trcmcly angr) .\ - Cunu.:rn that tht.: Com:ert Crnttee t.:u-dwirs - bouking agt.:nts \\ill not work with the co-chairs bccau~e they ar;,; ·unprok~~iunitl\ and the) '' oulJ rarther \ork '' ith high sehoul stud~:nb - !here haJ been ..t pL>:>~ibilit) that DJ\C ~hthC\\S coming o.mJ th-.:)- JiJ nutlllU\ e lluid. enough motiun (Rmsi). rccL>mmenJ to the COC that the wncert wmmittee w-e hairs be dism issd pending a COC imcstigatiu11 uftheir pcrfonHJncc a::, cu-ch..tir::,, \\ ith the unJcr~t;ntJ­ ing tiJJt the SF ha::. tht.: Jc~ir~.: to bring a big nan 11.: band tu the ~tuJcrll body -passed VP Academic- no meeting this week next meeting will discuss the straw ballot and th~ approval of new courses VP Multicultural- Surveys printed and going, out this week Race relations discussion:, : Nt.:eJ the forum to lle lp as facilitators Trustees- llH.:t with tht.: Stillman priLe cmttee Sophomores will no\-\ bt.: allowed to nominate teachers ll:C- planning Greek Week for the JJ•h_ 18 11 of April Frat stock is the I'' Saturday of May PanHel- had luncheon with House Presidents, Socials, and Tremurers and tht! school counsel. Discussed the liability issues of SWAT. Sti II working out the Good Samaritan clause THC- brochure coming out next week Class Reports SR- Senior Slack-offparty atChet's this Friday Possible after thesis at the Van Dyke JR- Hospital pants selling well. Generic ones coming next week SOPH- Mugs are in, will go on sale Wednesday for $5 Battle of the Bands Pres. Hull will finance it FRESH- BBQ for spring maybe combine it with the battle of the ban <Is Committee Reports SAC- Ludlow House did not get renewed housing space now avaiL QDC reviewal on Wednesday The Society reviewal on Thursday Mardi Gras Celebration Comes to Union by Lisa Pertoso Staff Writer Last Tuesday, February 24th, the usual tea at the Nott Memorial was transformed into the first annual Mardi Gras celebration. Students and faculty alike enjoyed tea. French pastries and wonderfuljaa mu~l( provided b) professors anu students. l he IllS tory ol MarJtura~. somc- tllne~calkd Fat luc~J<t) or Shrove I uesday. occurs on th~.: day before Ash Wednesday. lhts Wednes- d..t) marks the first Jay of Lent, \\hid! is the beginning ofthe fort~ da)' before Easter. a ( \hristian holi- J.t). I he da~ :-of I .ent. c\plamcJ h~ lorn I n.:hcrg. comd111ator of tilt• l\\l.'llt ,tlld tilL· ( ,tthtllil ( \hdp· r.trli ,I; I /,1<'11. ii.tcltlililr.tl;\ ·i~l\illL ,, :,:;\''I Lt•itlt~. ldc:.til\ .111<! ::c_li r,ltl\cly. ~olllC gt\c ch,mty durtng ! f11' ! lilt c· 1\ iJ ll fl t•, d ll > l \ l' f , til It' Ill'\\ <tl pt:noJ iultt:: .tgu tile L!~llltt:: ul I <.:Ill lti \!lllll\ LtJ!llllt\' \~,1'> illlllil lllOfl' stncl. MarJ1lJI.tS \\<1' 'cell a' ut;c ld.:>liJd:::,lt Ul j.l..tll) Od VI l: tilL\ .><lt.l I fice of knt,'' said Frieberg. The Mardi Gras tradition started in Eu- rope, and through the years has become less strict and religious oriented. In the United States, the meaning has slightly changed and is expressed in the city ofNew Or- leans which is famous for annuall;r hosting an extravagant Mardi Gras celebration. In New Orleans., a heavily Christian city colonized b; Spaniards and the French, Mardi Gras brings all different religi()us and music cultures together for a · party that continues for weeks. I h~: a~~oc Jation or Ill USIC \\ ittl Mard1 Gras Jbo originate~ frun1 New Orleans and the spirit t)fj;~z;~. 1\J~ brought to Lnion b) it pcrfwr· mancc ol t<tlcnted profcs~or~ <~.nd <;tudents. Tim Olsen. a profe~stH from the music department l0d Roger Noyes on guitar, Briar~ (iillman on tnunpet. Garrett Rro,ll!l on drums. and Don A mold on trnm · hlllll' in Ji,·t:l~ i~t//lllll'>ic th<tll.'ch · \l,·,j ilif<lll_'l:i'ill !he· '\tl(( J'fJz· I' .1 I i,! 1 t i ll ! I<. d \\ il 11 t h c· L1111 • >II'< 1'! l 'r. <' · \\ hl'll t !1..: ~alllh ( io l\L1H htll!! In\' Stuuent~ anJ facult} touk 111 the J.il/ h,llld 11 l11 k dr tn!-- Ill!:'- tt.l. ,trid L':ttim· ra»lril'S And\ SihL'rtllal1 'Jl) :>-tt.J ul lite L.cklll,tltull, NDI 1 c:r~. :·<l:l\ <Jrk,111. (·.qtll'.l'ill the) did the best they could. I had a good time.\ Aileen Quigley' 9~ expressed the importance ilehin(j recognizing Mardi Gras at Uni@ll by saying, \I think it's great be· In 1991, Patrik, along with her l1usband, took some letters that 1\.acL)IlSki •uotc to tht.:nl and haJ them anJl.Jzc:J b) a psychiatrist Th-: Idlers \\t:re e:..tn:mcl) nega- tive, \<iolent and insultiNg. It 1vas dc<..~r to thcn1 th..tt he \1 .~~ menta H) Ji~Lurhc:J ..tnd they Jc~.:iJed ltl lnol-- iniL> hu \ ing T...:J com m ittcJ. With ~orne: remor:-.c, D;l\ iJ Kacz) nsk i <~JJJ 1\ttrit... fuunJ that it \\a~ t.:\- tremt:ly difficult to have anyone committed. \The psychiatrist said that it \\as extrt.:md) hard to have ~omeonc committed unless the) had harmed ~omeone or haJ al- rt.:a<.l::r harmd thcm~t:l-v cs, Jlld \\ e had no evidence of him having harmed anyone.\ The only evi- dence of therapy found in K.acz)nski's Montana home were ~ome letters of correspondence therapy, and medication to treat a sleeping problem. \He definitely does not believe that he's crazy - does not think he is mentally ilL He just thought he had a sleeping problem,\ Patrik said. The early efforts of Patrik and her husband helped them later when they deduced that the Mani- festo printed in The New York Times and the Washington Post was authored by Ted Kaczynski. There were tremendous similarities in the language that they had seen in the violent letters over the years. Patrik resorted to her oldest child- hood friend, Susan Swanson of Chicago, Illinois, for assistance. Swanson is a private investigator, and when Patrik concluded that a writing analysis should be done on the letters and Manifesto, Patrik confided in Swanson. \We knew that we could trust her- absolutely. I didn't know anyone else we could trust.\ There were many clues that lin ked Ted Kaczynski to the Unabomber, but Patrik provided insight into what may have trig- gered the anti-technology senti- ments of her brother in law. Pin- pointing what triggered Ted to have these negative sentiments 1\~<.Ul tn(redibl) comple:.. probk:m. rhe farnil) \\as alway~ intcrt:stcd in nature from the earliest year~ nf thctr t:hildhood. hut hcyond th<tt point the two brothers headed in com letclv different directions cause we are so separated from the celebration in New Orleans. Mardi Ciras isn't a hig deal in the North- east. In the pa'>t. Mardi (ira~ \\ '\' a l!,,jrd,t'. t h .tt 'L't'llH'rl !11 h· lh'· c-lt·,tn! Ill till· ll••lih ,11111 ·,llflll'ltlllt''. 1-u1 );lltletl, lnll I jnton ha:-- dt.:ctJeJ t<l retn!!nitl' it this time hy he!-!in- llillg, a new tradition ofcelebratton itltd LllllliiL' {\I titL' l,lillf'll\ l'\ l'l :- \l';lf. ··we're thrilled. it ~cemed like ,1 '-.ll~L D\, .. 1..\llllllle llkJ ! IICbng ',\ ll1r d J.,,, .Li!L\d tiLt! tfll' fl\l',<lfl fp celebrate Mardi Gras is \because it is such a fun tradition. Mardi Gras is for everyone and doesn't have to tied to religions. It is a good excuse for celebration.\ David studied Ellglish and Ted Kaczynski took t@ Math and Sci- ence. The subject matter coupled with the time period of their study, in Patrik's opinion, m.ay have emcour- aged Ted's rage. , .. In the late six- ties, for example, I went to college and took Physics and Math, bMt I rejected that and .a lot of people like me rejected M:ath ar~d Science because of techn()logy. We saw technology as con trihuting to the Vietnam War effort..\ Patrik contin- ued.\<' lot of people dropped out of Math and Scier1cc at that time. Tcd did not. lk went into very ahstract 1\.1athenJat ics. Fven though he wasn't v cry political. .. it was just in the air ~t the time. There was a kind of b:~ck-to-natwre move.\ Patrik continued: \I think at nwst places thoe math courses being taught are taken by engi- neers. Engineers ()[course arc de- veloping tcchnolo;gy, so I think he didn't like the fact that most of his teaching work was somehow con- tributing to technology.\ The Cuncordio1sis learned of the arrest ofTed Kaczynski in April of 1996, and we encountered a multitude of solicitations to \dig up dirt\ on Professor Patrik. To learn more abou1 the situation, members of the :;taff observed a media mob at Keyes A venue, the home of Patrilk and David Kaczynski. Reporters remained outside their home for roughly a week, taking awa, what little pri- vacy the couple hlad after the ar- rest. It was at this point that Patrik and her husband became public figures, something they had agreed with the FBI to avoid. When Patrik a11d her husband contacted the F~l, it was under their terms. \Susan Swanson had drawn up a list of11ine conditions. .. that mostly had to do with ex- cluding Ted as a suspect, in other words, instead ofj urn ping the gun, we wanted the FIB'l to search out evidence very ca..refully, so they would exclude Ted as a suspect because we knew he was crazy. We knew he was mentally unstable. We were afraid that if the FBI showed up at his doorstep in Montana that he would lose it, basically have a breakdown and lose it and perhaps he would become violent, even if he were innocent. We didn't know if he was guilty m innocent, but we knew that he was crazy. We \\antcJ the FRI to sct:k other kinds tlf n idcncc without meeting Ted in person.\ Other conditioru\ included a ~are arrest and the prorn i-;e to maintain confidentiality. The FBI was not supposed to reveal that they had turned in Ted, but that tnilst was quickly broken. \We felt screwed by the FBI,\ Patrik said. The FBI had had a chance to tell David Kaczynski that their names had leaked out when they phoned David the day of the arrest, but tlley never mentioned anything. It was f.rom the CBS Evening News broadcast ttl at the couple learned that their role had been revealed. Darn Rather reported that David had \fingered his brother,\ and they felt hetrayed. For roughly one week Patrik, her hushand and mother-in-law sat in their home avoiding the press: re- porters camped out on their lawn. \Loca I media were going: through our garhage -watching us.\ The paparazzi approach lo tlleir story botli!ered Patrik. and she felt ex- tremely violated. \That first on- slaught, they had no ethics what- soever. They played vicious tricks on us ... they [had] a mean streak in them.\ The familyusedthistimetomake family decisions. Among the most pressing of these issues was the decision not to profit from Ted's arrest. nor to grant interviews to the press. Patrik's Concordiensis interview is only her third since this issue made headlines. The FBI had offered a reward for turning in the Unabomber, but Patrik and her hus- band have formed a committee to distribute the one miiHon dollars among the families ofvictims. In addition, their lawyer, Tony Bisceglie, needs to be compen- sated for his two-year commitment to Patrik and her husband. Over the past two years, David Kaczynski launched a campaign against capital punishment and fought for his brother~s life. Only eight of the nine terms and condi- tions that Swanson had drafted for them were approved by Attorney General Janet Reno. The ninth asked for abstention from the death penalty, and this Reno re- fused. David Kaczynski, along with Patrik, have become spokesmen against the death penalty, and they intefld to continue speaking out on this controversial issue. Patrik has carried many things away from this experience, but her reflections as a phil()sopher are particularly intriguing. Patrik has . lost respect for tremendous intel- lect as such. Genius needs to be coupled with the heilrt and lovinl! relationships with people to have a positive impact on society. She has learned from tragic experience thilt \'intellectual hrilliance has great dangers.\ Got some spare time? Join the . ··.~coneordy, we ,:•f'. ·~~l ~ ~ ~~.~, ~ ·.~:; . · .. · .·.•,•.···. Adl \ I





RID Speakers Attempt.to Influence Campus Holocaust Exhibit by Anjali Balasingham Staff Writer On Wednesday, February 25, Memorial Chapel hosted a presen- tation on the effects ofbinge drink- ing. The talk was given by RID (Re- mov-e Intoxicated Drivers}, a Schenectady-based national orga- nization working to promote legis- lative and social understanding of alcohol issues. Organized for the second consecutive year by jun• ior JustinCampbell, the presenta- tion featured addresses by various speakers wh(} had come in contact with the issU:es associated with binge drinking. The first speaker, Jennifer Brown, graduated from Union in 1995. Presently a RID volun- teer, she felt compelled to speak out because she knew firsthand about the general ig- norance with regard to alcohol at Union. \When I was in col- lege, I didn't understand what binge drinking was all about,\ she said. \I did the normal col- lege thing~ and it was a blast I. had 'lots of friends who did what we would now call binge drinking, and it was no big. deal to us. We would put them to bed and not take it too' seri- ously.\ But Brown emphasized that this approach was the wrong one, and that extreme alcohol consump- tion should be reported to secu- rity immediately. \Alcohol is the only drug til at you can actually die from detox.ing from,\ she said. \That's pretty amazing.\ Brown concluded in saying that by call- ing security and going to the hos- pital, death by binge drinking \is something that can be avoided if you know what to do.\ The presentation continued with a RID \ideo that documented speeches made by parents of binge drinking victims. Statistics under- lined the gravity of the issue, cit- . ing thatl.l billion cans ofbeerwere sold to minors last year alone, and that an estimated 4,000 teens die annually of alcohol poisoning. The video also provided important ad- vice for recognizing and dealing with binge drinking. It warned against giving food, coffee, or showers to those affected, and also against inducing vomiting. The potential physiological effects of alcohol were listed as including dece leratecl respiration and heart rate, decreased blood pressure, convulsions, seizures, and hypo- thermia. Doris Aiken, founder and Presi- dent of RJD, spoke next about the conspiratorial lack of publicity re- garding bi11ge drinking. \The rea- son we dou't know exactly how many people die [from it] is because coroners d()n 't list blood alcohol level on death reports,\ she said. \We're currently writing to the coroners and to the medical exam- iners to change this.\ Aiken also identified the media as a culprit in making light of serious alcohol is- sues, and stated that \this is some- thiJ!g the public is being protected against. The media is not permit- ted to tell people that alcohol is a poison.\ Kathy Brooks, a RJD volunteer, was the mother of a teenager who was hit and killed by a drunk driver. She spoke ·Of the lasting anguish she and her fatnily endured as a result ofthe driver's carelessness, and her story had a sobering ef-· feet on the audience. Almost twelve years ago, her daughter Vicki had been delivering newspa- pers when she was killed by a busi- nessman who tried to cut through traffic by driving on the median on which she was standing. At the time, Kathy was the single mother of five children, and was working three jobs in order to make ends meet. \Vicki was like the mother ()f the house while I worked,\ Brooks said. \She was not only my daugh- ter and my helper, but also my best friend.\ After Vicki had been hit and taken to Albany Medical Center, she suffered from several skull frac- tures and brain damage. In a few days time, the doctors told Kathy that her daughter was brain-dead. \Then there were all kinds ofdeci- sions I had to make,\ said Brooks. \Do I let her stay on life-support, or do I donate her organs? I de· cided to donate her organs, be- cause Vicki was a very caring per- son.\ Brooks continued to say that the death of her eldest daughter devastated the rest of her family. Her two youngest boys were psy- chologically traumatized, and her eldest son started drinking. \We had so many problems at home. I was grieving, and for two and ahalf to three years, I was there, but not there. They were teenagers basically all raising themselves.\ Brooks pointed out that one never reco\- ers completely from such a trag- edy. \We'vecomealongwaysince [the accident],\ she said. \But I do have my days. Holidays are terrible. Her birthdays are terrible ... You never get over a child's death.\ Brooks stated that her goal in com- ing to Union was to try and pre- vent others from having to suffer a similar fate. \There's so much that drinking does to you,\ she said. \I would not want you to be respon- sible for causing someone's death, or for you to get hurt and your par- ents to go through what I did. If one person listens to me, that means that the thirteen years that my daughter was here meant some- thing, and that she did not die in ... continuedfrom page 1 vain.\ come atthe end ofthis high profile Campbell and Aiken concluded trial. the pr;()grarn by emphasizing that Many books, documents, and the message being sent out was collections have fa1leu under the not that drinking is bad. \I'm not Klarsfeld's authorship. Among the going to tell you not to drink,\ said most titles are The Memorial of CamJ)'bell \Just think when you Jewish Children Deported from drink. :Imagine what your family France, TheCalendarofthe Perse~ wo11ld go through if something cution for the Jews From France,. were to happen to you. I think it's 1940 to 1944, The Fate of the Ru- very important.\ When inter- manian Jewry During the Halo- viewed after the presentation, ,caust, and Auschwitz: Technique Aiken said that one-third.ofthe RID and Operation of the Gas Cham- organization's program is now de- · bers. voted to education about binge , Professor Clifford W. Brown, drinki11g, because its incidence Chairofthe NottMemorial Exhibi- continlles to rise. As far as leg isla- tion Committee, spearheaded the tive measures are concerned, RID effort to bring the Klarsfelds and has had several successes in pro- the exhi~it to Union College. This moting its cause. \We de• exhibition is on loan from the Mu- cided that plea bargaining seum of Jewish Heritage in New was the problem,\ Aiken \\?ork City, and was created by the said. Beate KlarsfeldFounda1ionofNew \Too many drunk driv- York and Paris. The first tloor of ers were gettin·g released the Nott will focus on French chil- early because of it. So in dren. It contains 350 photographs 1980, we had plea bargain- and documents of over 11 ,400 chil- ing outlawed for drunk dren removed from France during drivers in N~w York. We the Nazi occupation. Much ofthe also helped five judges exhibit is from Serge's book: and two districtattomeys French Children of the Holocaust. get diselected because \The uniqueness of the French they regarded drunk <lriv- exhibit is that it attaches names, ing e~.s an accident rather than a pictures and locations to numbers. crime. We've antagonized the al- It tells us what happened to these collo l industry, and bartender's people, whtm it happened, how it profits have fallen. That wasn't happened, this is the work of the ter forever the anonymity of the · Holocaust. That is their great con· tributiO!J. in this exhibit,\ said Stephen M. Berk, Florence B.. Sherwood Professor and Chair of the Hi~tory Department. The second part of the exhibit, Of Light Amidst the Darkness - The Danish Rescue, displays 55 photographs from Judith Ellis Glickman's collection. They show- case the heroism of the Danish re- sistance and rescue of the Jews during the Nazi t\lle in Denmark. \This exhibit deals with a unique episode in the history of the Holo- caust ~ the rescue of almost an entire Jewish community. In Sep- tember of 1943, the Germans pre- pared to round up the Jews in Den- mark and deport them to Auschwitz. The Danish govern- ment, the Danishdergy, and ordi- nary Danes took 7,200 Jiews, warned the Jews about what was happening, brought them to the coast, the Danish sea coast; and Danish fishermen took them to Sweden. There is nothing like this in the entire history of the Holo- caust,\ Berk said. The convocation welcoming the · Klarsfelds begins in Memorial Chapel at 8:15PM on March 15. An exhibition preview will begin at 7 PM with the honored guests. Both Serge and Beate will be re- ceiving honorary degrees from the plea~ant to do. But a lot of people J_!:K:;!.:la:!!r.::!:sf<~e:.!!ld~s:.:.. . ..!T~h.!:::is:...::e:!::x!!.h!!:ib::!.!it:...,:w:!.;i~ll;.;;s:!!h!!::at:::_---~~~--------­ didn't die because of it.\ Aiken Smoke Bomb Raises Concern at TD Chi stressed the importance of educa- tion. \People do not know that there'! a lethal dose to alcohol. We want to make it a law that all drugs should be specified on death cer- tificC~.tes, so that the cause of death is not just listed as an \ov~rdose\ ... Drunk driving is a crime that is totally preventable. I have no moral problem with alco- hol, I:Jut it is important that people know that it's the drug that causes the 1nost deaths in this country.\ Campbell, who independently undertook the organization of the talk, believed that the .issue of bin~e drinking was one that neecled to be properly addressed at Union. \Last year [the presenta- tion) seemed to be a good.success. I talked to a lotof students about it afterwards, and they told me that they had learned a lot from it. And of <:OLarse, everyone knows all too we II that there have been more than a few alcohol incidents on campus this year. So I mentioned the idea of <loing it again to President Hull ... I initially saw this program mysel.f, and I thought it was very educational.\ Campbell was disap- poillted that this year's turnout . proved significantly less than last year's. \I'm a little discouraged that none ofthe administration showed up. \They've made such a big ef- fort to push this message, having the dry campus [earlier in the tern1].\ But Campbell still felt that the effort was worthwhile. \Even if only two people had showed up, as l()flg as you affect someone, you've accomplished something.\ by Jonathan Gasthalter Editor-in-CJJief Union's campus gefirally is not the victim of serious crime for the last three years. However, on Mon- day morning at 12:31 AM,. an un- known person(s) set()ff or threw a smoke bomb into Theta Delta Chi Fraternity. The smok:e bomb en- tered the building .through the Lenox Road door. The bomb ex- ploded causing large amounts of smoke to billow from the living room. The Schenectady Fire De- partment responded irnmeadiatly as did the Schenectady Police Depart- ment. Despite the heavy smoke, no injuries were reported and the house, which was evacuated for over an hour, sustained no ser-ious damage. The smoke born!> was three inches long and an inch in diam- eter, resembling a car flare with the its top removed accotding to Theta Delta Chi Brothers who saw the bomb. Brother Chris Brantigan was the first to spot the trouble. He immead.iatly had the building evacuated and had campus safety, the police and fire department called. According to one Schenectady fireman, \when we pulled up, it looked a lot worse than it was.\ An incident that occured around 11: 15 PM Sundaynight, might have been related to the smoke bomb. According to Theta Delta Chi brothers, a group of what appeared to be high school students drove by Edwards House on Lenox Road and tossed eggs at brothers ve- hicles. After attempting to clean up the damage, most brothers re- turned inside. Initially, brothers believed that the device was tossed inside the house threw a window, but accord- ing to firemen on the scene and as seen in the photograph below, the smoke born b was probably lobbed threw the front door. The smoke bomb left a dark burnt areaon the carpet just inside the front door. Schenectady police in conjunc- tion with campus safety are re- viewing the incident and are searching for suspects. In Edwi covel tions from stant port~ CaUSI size: n cates is ex \'Big imp( defit pans HI ing! 4eeJ vers ing · Cos tion baSI Ene v con thir thir all sou COil tap AI rna bo1 em SOl thtl are a:: US1 Th ity Spi so 64 inJ Stl is to in so ju th er SJ st e1

.Science & Technology_ N\o End to the Big Bang in Sight by Jennifer Trotts Staff Writer In 1929, American astronomer Edwin Hubble announced his dis- covery that galaxies from all direc- tions appeared to be moving away from the earth. The Hubble Con- stant (Ho) is one of the most im- portantnumbersin cosmology he- cause it is needed to estimate the size and .age of the universe. This long ... sought number in&- cates the rate at which the universe is expanding from the primordial \Big Bang.\ The other constant of importance is known as q which defines the deceleration ofthe eX:- pansion of the universe. However, new studies of explod- ing stars in the farthest reaches of deep space indicate that the uni- verse will expand forever, accord- ing to findings of .the Supernova Cosmology Project, an interna- tional team of astrophysicists based at the Department of · Energy's Ernest Orlando Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. This means there is no deceleration of the expansion of the 11niverse to measure. ''Distant supernovae provide natural mile-markers which canbe used to measuretrends in the cosmic expansion,\ says Berkeley Lab's Saul Perlmutter, leader of the Super- nova Cosmology Project. \All the indications from our observa- tions of supernovae spanning. a large range of distances are that we live in a universe that will ex- pand forev'er. Appar- ently there isn~t enough mass in the universe for its gravity to slow the expansion, which started with the Big Bang, to a halt.'' This result rests on analysis of 40 .of tbe roughly 65 supernovae so far discovered by the Supernova Computer Stereo? by Jeff Ausfeld Staff Writer When one thinks of a stereo, a computer is definitely not the :first thing that comes to mind. Just thinkabout it: most computers now all have CD players, a decent sound card and speakers, All the components are present, except the tape player, so why not use them? A computer sound system can make more than just the bleeps and bonks that we have all grown ac- customed to hearing. The first thing on the list is a sound card. Most sound cards that come with a computer system are adequate. The general issue is a 32 bit sound blaster card and it usually has a joystick interface. This card will transmit the CD qual- ity sound that we expect to the speakers. For the music and 3D sound enthusiast, Creative has a 64 bit sound card for true thump- ing power. sound that even a 32 bit card trans- mits. This is thereason that most people do notthink of a computer as being able to generate .a sound more complex then a warning beep. For speakers, I suggest thumb- ing through Altec Lansing's cata- log. They are the premiere com- puter speaker manufacturers with a range of packages to fit anyone's need: anything from standard is- sue computer 'speakers to Dolby Pro Logic surround sound speaker systems. There has been much talk in the music industry about the new ASC 500 speaker system. from Altec Lansing. It is supposed to be the top of the line in computer speak- ers with seamless right to left Dolby Pro Logic surround sound. I have n()W owned one for about 20 weeks and I comp-1etely agree. This is not only the best com- puter system that I have heard, but it blows away many of the systems found in stereo packages. When I first tried it out in my upstairs room at my home, it made. tables rattle down in the basement. This sys- Cosmo'logy Project. Exp'loding stars known as supernovae are so intrinsically bright that their light is visible half-way across the ob- servable universe. By the time the lightofthe most distant supernova explosions so far discovered by the team reached telescopes on earth, some7 billion years had past since ttre stars e\ploded. After such a journey, the star- light is feeble, and its wavelengths have been stretched by the expan- sion of the universe overtime (a phenomenon known as redshift). By comparing the faint light of dis- tant supernovae to that of bright nearby supernovae, the astrophysicists were able to deter- mine how far the su- pernova light had traveled. Distances com- bined with redshifts of the supernovae give the rate of ex- pansion ofthe uni- verse over its his- tory, allowing a de- termination of how much the expansion rate is speeding up or slowing down. A key scientific justificaticn for building the Hubble Space Tele- scope was to use it to measure the size and age of the universe, test theories about its origin in tbe Big Bang, an the emergence of large- scale structure as embodied in vast filaments of galaxies. Understand- ing galaxy evoiution, which the Hubble Telescope allows us to do, i~ a prerequisiteto addressing even more fundamental questions about the ex:pansion. of space and ulti- mate fate of the universe. One of these questions is whether the universe is open or closed. An open universe expands forever because it does not con- tain enough matter (also called mass density). Space is said to be negatively curved, as first de- scribed by Einstein in his law of general relativity. A closed uni- verse e'Ventually stops expanding and then contracts to ultimately collapse into a black hole. In such a u11iverse, space is described as positively curved -- the universe folds back in on itself and space is unb()unded but finite. Ifthe new studies are accurate, then tile universe is open and its ultimate fate is to continue to ex- pand forever. For more infonnation on tbe Hubble Space Telescope, go to http://www.stsci.edu/ The Auto PC Powered by Windows CE Enters New Realm: The Car. by Dan Kelmanovich StajfWriter The evolution of interactive computers has entered a new realm, the car. The Auto PC is a new innovation which ties to- gether allofthe advantages of the common car s!ereo with the orga- nization and abilities associated with a handheld PC. The newest Auto PC's are powered by Win- dowsCE2.0. Developed by Microsoft, Win- dows CE provides an easy-to-use interface backed by an unlimited functionality. Currently in devel- opment, the Auto PC hopes to al- low drivers to access their sched- ules and retrieve many fonns of in- formation. The main interface is powered by speech recognition. The driver of the car can ask for their appoint- ments and the Auto PC responds by verbalizing them. While on the road, the PC can check for email by using wireless commu:nications and even read the email out loud. Wireless support options also enable the Auto PC te alert a driver of traffic conditions and even sug- gest alternate routes using built in navigation software. The driver can also call ahead to an appointment using wireless cell phone support options. The Auto PC replaces the nor- mal in-dash radio with added func- tionality. It includes AMfFM radio support and also consists of a high powered digital audio system with a built in CD-ROM. Adding periph- erals or software can also expand the abilities of the Auto PC. One option is the addition of a global positioning satellite (GPS) system. Some of the hardware associated with the Auto PC include a mini- murn of8 MB of ram, and an 8MB ROM (for Windows CE), a CD- ROM drive, microphone, volume contro Js, and a numeric keypad for input. The Auto PC also includes an AM/FM tuner, infrared port for communication between comput- ers, a serial port, a universal se- rial l>us (USB), and a compact flash socket. The possibilities associated with the Auto PC offer to expand the business user by having online access while driving and aid in organization. Soon to ap- pear in new cars, the Auto PC of- fers to provide new opportunities to tile driver and expand the func- tion ofthe modern car. Questions and Comments e-mail to: Jeff Ausfeld: (Union email ad- dress is:) ausfeldj@idol.union.edu Dan Kelmanovich kelmanod@idol. union.edu Articles will also be posted on Internet at: http:// www. vu. union.edu/-kelmanodl http~/ /www. vu. union.edu/ ~ausfeldj/ I have heard this card demon- strated and, to tell the truth, there is a difference, but you really need to know what you are listening to in order to know I have a 32 bit sound blaster card and it performs just fine. tem is everything that it is said to 1 -.,.,._~----.,.....,.----- ....................................... ======================== The next thing on the list, and the most important, are the speak- ers. I know that you were issued speakers with the computer but standard computer speakers do not even come close to producing the be which is hard to find in this day in age. The CD player in any com- puter is probably more- powerful than most CD players found in ste- reo systems. When a computer CD drive is combined with a good sound card and set of high end computer speakers, the sound created can almost be surreal.

- ·- '· ..... Miami only $79 o.w. Mexico/Caribbean or San Juan -$200 r.t Europe only $179 o.w. Other world wide destinations cheap, ONLY TERRORISTS CAN. GET YOU THERE CH:EAPER·! Air- Tech {212}219~7·0·0·0 or (800)575 .. TECH www.airtech.com . · , ''f·'lfJtX;~'\a·sareere:yotl;knowhas;f.:>eerla· ·;:·\.MGt''. tlt,l · :,Qt·. ::SeXW:i:M~~~t sara··~ is here, totlelt:[you~:: :6afe'~offers su~~,·~~ttni{:.~~.· . to share their e>q:aienres in a C01fidentia cn:l su~ve ~. I you have any questioos, concems, a sirrply reed infooration fcr ywrse a others, cal the contidentia Safe Spoce beeper at 1-8(X).283w2255 [in 11349. ex stop by roon 4048 in the College Center during oor drqi in hoor . . .. · 1rcm 7~9 fl11 or \1\S:fnesdays from 11an-1pm · POSITIOIS AIAilll.lE The Annual OiViiU OHice, located in Fero louse,. is seeMing qualilied, aaeruatic and dedicated students to call Dn11n Collaua a11mni and aarents ta raise annual funds vital to the dav·tll~dav operalio,n ol vour Collaue. * * * * 40 calling positions available 4 taiiJIIU PISIIIIDS availabll. . $5.15 per haur mastworll a IDinimam of 2 niollts per week durlnatha 3 waek calling session mustanend a •andatorvtrainina session session runs Mandav-Tllarsdav April21 • Mag 1,1998 6:38 • 9:01 !M. lllltaresled in Interviewing fer an AIINUAL GIVING AffiliATE position caii318·61J51odavl · i' 1 . r. I l 1 ] l

..;., 1~871\\a~nren;~:ed, 6\/e.ry day_ · ... : . . ·. · . . .• . . . /. . :- ; : .:: ··<'\ ' _; . ·. - 00,916~ CTe.~ eve~yrrqlftt . : ~ -~-- · . : Miami only $79 o.w. Mexico/Caribbean or San Juan $200 r. t. Europe only $179 o.w. Other world wide destinations cheap. ONLY TERRORISTS CAN GET YOU T.HERE CHEAPER! Air-Tech (212)219-700·0 or (800)575-TECH www.airtech.com . · · _ ---683,0XJ~m;r~6Veryya:t:.· ~ ·· .. ~ .. · . ·:. :.·t-~\-->~~?~h\.-~:-:: ~oo~~~~~~dh~~~~-~-:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ·- * lhe rate of sexual assa~lt in the lklited Sates ·is the highest of .a, .. JStrial~red nation in the void (Paso an Roth, 1993). . * Betv\eerl1989 and 1900, the nurrber of r~ ad atterrptoo· r~ io::rease · an estirraterl 59 percent- to a1 e;;tirmted 2J7,fiJJ rapes frool130,cro, ccccrdiflJ to th Naticnal Oirre SJrvey (U.S ~t d Justice, 1992). · * rvtst sexua assaults are panned. A;:poxirraey ro to 703/o of al sexua · C5Sa.Jits ere prerra:litate:J. In crder to get aNal wth their cnrre, ffiSailmts consdcusl · select victirrs W10 are vulneralle to attcd<. EVERYONE IS A POTENTIAl VICTIM a= SEXUALASSA.li.T. SEXUAL ASSAULT IS . A 1'1R:AT TO ALL-PEOPLE: WJIVEN, CHLDREN AND I\IEN. If 'fJJ a sareone you kn<m has been a victim of seX!Jal vidence Safe -~ is here to help yoo. Safe ~offers survivors a1 opportunit to share thefr experiences in a cootidentia and suWJrtjve atrmsphei-e. I you have 8IlY questions, carems, cr sirrply need infoomtioo fer yoorsel cr others, cal tre confidentia S:lfe ~ tl3eper at 1-800-283-2255 pn 11349. a- stop by room 4048 in the College Center during oor drq:> in hoor on SJndays from 7-9 pm or \.1\a:fnesdays from 11cm-1pm · POSITIONS AVAILABLE Tho Annual GiVing OHice, located in Faro House, is seeking qualified, energetic and dedicated students to call Union coneua alumni aad parents to raise annuallunds vital to the dav-to-day operation of vour Collage. * * * * * 40 calling oasitions available 4tallvinu positions available S5.15 per hour must work a minimu• o12 nights per week during the 3 week calling session must attend a maadatorv training session session runs Mondav- lhursdav April20 .. Mav 1, 1898 6:30 - 9:00 P.M. If Interested In interviewing for an ANNUAL GIVING AFFiliATE POSition call388-8175 todavl A 1 r. l 1 1 ] l

11NION COI.l.llCII Career Deoelq;ment Center CDC Updates ••• Tomght! MartinS, Sands '83, Chairman, will:be giving a presentation oil invest* · ·ment banking opportunities at lANDS tiOTHIUA CO., Ltd. on J}mrsday, · f~ 2§ at 8pm in Milano Lounge. The dead1ille f« submitting resumes is Friday, Feb~ 27 at the CDC. IISUMI RIFI·RRAL. DIAPLINI for Arthur Andersen, Covance,· Encotech, GE CBD, Stone & Webster, Brlgar Computer ~rvim, and Stiefel Laboratories is Fliday. Feb 1 27 . Husky lnjeetionMoldlngSystems and Health · • Care Associates deadline is~ MBr®6 by Spm at tbe CDC. · AttentionSophomores and Juniors! ALCON .bas a co--opposition in California for ME majors. Resume deadline is frida!, Eeb. 21 at the CDC. TIACH FOI AMI RICA- Applicatioostnust be postmarked by March 2. A representative from the GRADUATE SCHOOL OF IUSINISJ AD MIN·. IITRATION at NORTHWTIRN UNIYIRJITY will be on campus·. WedneiQay; March4. Come to tbeCDC to siEJl up for an individual informational interview. · EXXON CORPORATION is accepting resumes from interested ci~l engi· · · neering students. Position descriptions are available at the CDC. Deadline is · Enaax, March 13. The CDC is now using eumail to convey updated infonnation on career opportuni· ties in all fields. Be sure to check your e-mail regularly to stay infonned! You must be registered with tbe CDC to receive this service. Come work for the Career Development Ce11ter as a Career Assistant! Applications are available for th()se students going on tenn abroad Ibis spring. Contact Sllelly Shinebarger at x6176 or come by the CDC for an application. ~ . . ' HE¥ :···· ·111·· ·· .· . <'<. 0;;. •· .... - .. -.------ . ·. ·, ....... . ~ ' .'; .-. ' . ,·. ~ '. =. • ' '·,,:, ' ' • <\ ' ;' ~ ;:_ , .. -~-- . '' . St. Patricks Day Celebration Friday March 13 10-12 pm Entertainment Traditional Irish Foods Dart contest ~Prizes.,.

J Advertisements rm UMONcott~ CDC Updates ••• Omtt Deutlopntent · Center Tonight! MartinS. Sands '83, Cbainnan, will be giving a presentatiom QD invest- ment banking opportunities at MMD f IROTHIU • CO., Ltd OJl Ib~ . ~b.a ~at 8pm in Milano Loonge. The deadline fa submitting resun1es is Friday, . Feb. 27 at tbe CDC. RISVMI RIFIRRAL DIAPLI'NI for Artlaur Anderse», Covance, 'Enootecla 9 GE CBD, Stone & Webster, Brigar Computer Services, and Stiefel Laboratories is f1iday, Feb. 21 . Husky Injection Molding Systerm and Health ·Care Associates deadline is Emay. March 6 by 5pm at the CDC. Attention Sophomores and Juniors! ALCON bas a co-op position in California for ME majors. Resume deadline is Friday, Feb. 27 at the CDC . . TIACH FOI AMIRIU.. - Applications must be postmarked by March 2. A representative from the ClAD UATI SCHOOL OF IUSINISIAD MIN· . ISTMTION at NORTHWTIRN UNIVERSITY will be on campus Wednesrlax~Ma.rch 4. Come to the CDC to sign up for an individual imformational interview. IXXOM CORPORATION is accepting resumes from interested civil engi· neering students. Position descriptions are available at the CDC. Deadline is Friday, March lJ. The CDC is now using e-mail to convey updated infonnation on career opportuni- ties in all fields. Be swe to check your e-mail regularly to stay informed! You must be registered with the CDC to receive this service. Come work for the Career Development Center as a Career Assistant! Applications are available for those students going on teml abroad this spring. Contact Shelly Shinebarger at x6176tlr come by the CDC for an application. ·H·· ·.EY··· Ill ••• ··· T~{!s~~Stt.tflrB~il:~a··~·~.l: .. ,:.~:.tv Jprn - .-. ·.-·-. . ' .. ··.,~6W~·sbe·.~~i~~~tl~~join. . lls forourQ~~~ING . cel:ebration.oflSat~.M~~14 .•.•. 1998 . . .. · . ; . ' ·.·' '· ' ;. : :•·::··;:/,·'::,... ' .·· '. ', .. . St. Patricks Day Celebration Friday March 13 10-12 pm Entertainment Traditional Irish Foods Dart contest • Prizes i!:

Opinions Selling Out Our Legacy? Dear Editors, ences, and natural sciences-you know, \like Hamilton or Colgate\? Is it about our sports teams, which have captured conference titles and taught our classmates about dedication and the spirit of com- petition? Is it about our centuries- old fraternal orders (which are known by SoutherneTs, even thought they don't completely ~'get\ what Northerners are about)? ls it about our buildings that make us look pretty enough for Holly- wood to want to film a Streisand- Redford movie here? ance of humanities 1 arts, social scilege )? Prospective students could be surrounded by the aura of our past presidents and relics of Union CoLlege. Then_ we could move the Presidenfs Residenceup to the GE Plot with the Deans' resi~ Pointless Observations Every time 1 leave the great Northeast, almost the same con- versation transpires with men, old and young: One Final Dissertation on Crack Q: So where do you go to school? A: I go to Union. Q: You mean, the seminary up in Virginia? [Union Theo- logical in Richmond, VA] A: No, Union College-in upstate New York. Q: Oh, THAT Union, the \Mother of All Fraternities!\ A: Yes, that's the one ... Of course, I also inform them that we're oyer 200 years old, that the only 16-sided building in the Western Hemisphere is on our campus, and that we're the first school to offer liberal arts and en- gineering curriculums currently. The point is, old men and young men educated at University of Texas, University ofGeorgia, Au- burn, Ole Miss-virtually any school down south with fraterni- ties-know of this aspect of Union College's legacy. I'm not going to waste words with a pedantic discussion of '\What Does It Mean to Be a Stu- dent at Union College.\ We all know that learning occurs all the time-whether we're intentionally at the library trying to memorize formulas or whether we're learn- ing to compromise with lousy Joommates. Let's even set the learning and legacy issues aside for a moment and talk solutions. dences to expand the campus and appease our neighbors to our east. Finally, allow the fraternities to retain their residences with stipu- lations regarding maintenance of by David Kay Staff Writer these houses. This compromise Considering that the Concordy would appease everyone-andre- isn't coming out again until the tain one of our priceless traditions. beginning of next April, I thought I'm not writing to extol the vir- that I would try to write an extra tuesoffraternities or bash the ad- special edition of my column-by ministration. What irritates me is loading up on crack before I be- thatfew studeuts seem to be think- gin much like previous staff writer ing about what Union College's Uncle Edna did before his final. legacy. is and shouid be. Has the dissertation. By doing this, I hope administration usurped power to make this week's column even from students, or have we given it more abnormal than expected. On away?. • crack, I would like to mention a If we students don't start pro- few people and the e\tracurricu- posing alternatives to the \solu- lar bright spots/not so bright spots tio.ns\ our administration has de- that they have taken part in this vised for us, Union College will . term. suffer, and we willhave gotten ev- First off, I would like to make a !!rything we deserve. I wonder . public plead to Frank the grill what club, what house, what tra- guy at West. Yes, Frank is the man dition will be the nexttargetofthe .. who makes sure to yell, \can I get administration. Being a great you anything from the.gtill\ in just school is not about having abunch enough of a gruff tone of voice to of nice buildings. make you realize the kind of jobs p.eop le land after getting out of jail. It's been hard to get a handle on what our legacy is supposed to be just by observing the administra- tion at Union College. Is our legacy to be a strong aca- demic institution with a decent bal- The administration wants to convert Alpha Delta Phi into the Admissions Office because of its prime location. The administra- tion wants to expand into the GE Plot, but \well-to-do\ families don't want students there. Why not move the Admissions Office into the President's Residence (in- cidentally right by the Blue Gate, which commemorates the found- ing of fraternities at Union Col- Respectfully, Alissa Mayo Ittums out that freshman Jason Ralph found a piece of good old Frank's mustache in his omelet just -------------.-------------------------1· three weeks ago. Even though he Nott Colgate! Editor, I believe a fundamental but potentially important in- correct inference has been drawn by some regarding the proposed Campus Master Plan. Several times the plan has been criticized for trying to make \make us more like Hamilton and Colgate.\ At no time has this been the goal. What the plan addresses, in a critical comparative context (which includes places like Hamilton, Colgate, etc.) are our facility needs, our strengths and weaknesses. While far from perfect, maybe not so far, Union is in a pos.ition of strength and get- ting stronger. Most elements ofthe proposal will only help! Kris Gcrncrt-11ott 'Rfi Associate Dean of Admissions And Union Wonders ... (submitted by Kirsten Kohn) Sunday, March 1, 1998 Surrounded by books, pages of articles, and high levels of stress, I sit here (along with my study buddy) in the Nott Memorial with great ambition to produce an ad· ditional chunk of my thesis. One would think that the Nott would be an appropriate, if not incred- ible, place for such pursuit; how- ever, the other students are rapidly packing up their materials as the noise levels increase At this point, I wonder to my- selfwhat sort of yahoos are down- stairs conjuring up trouble and be- ing extremely annoying. I assume that they are just standard locals, passing through the Nott one more time. Or perhaps they are a group of visitors, captivated by the glory of the only sixteen sided building within thousands of miles, and just have to see the inside. Both these theories evidently are false; because there are now well over fifty people in here drinking punch, laughing profusely and having no regard for the student body here at Union. Furthennore, after stopping two young boys sprinting around the third floor at amazing speeds, I come to .find that this brouhaha is a reception following a musical concert held in Memorial Chapel. This wouldn't be such a big deal if it was the middle of the day, at a school which provides adequate study facilities, and if finals weren't two weeks away. Let's honestly evaluate the situa- tion at hand. Tomorrow com- mences the first day of ninth week: term papers are due, last minute exams are squeezed in, and the students are suddenly frantic. So I sit here with only one question in mind, \what is Union thinking?\ How can Union hon- estly expect to be a highly com- petitive college with such disre- gard for student work habits. This particular situation isn't new here at Union. The school always m~nages to hold events at the end of the term. With limited space, the decisions to allocate such common areas through ven- ues not directly benefiting stu- dents is rather alarming. The events don't help or further the students academic endeavors but rather leave them as victims. As current students, we are left witlt little: a library that is too small. loud and under colistruction; <Jll empty, poorly lit dining hall for late night study; and a Nott Me'\ morial full of punch and cookies. found this fact disturbing, he ate · the omelet anyway. Missing this point completely though, I plead to Frank to place a hair net on his , mustache while he cooks over the grill. Is this too much to ask? Next, I would like to make an offer to anyone who is willing to grab Dean Alford's bicycle for a five fingered discount. In the spring, Dean Alford rides his bike to school in the morning. Anyone who is bold enough to take up such a mission should immediately bring it up to the Concordiensis office for this prize: One big kiss on the lips from former Editor- in-Chief Frank Rossi. And Frank doesn't discriminate either; he is an equal opportunity employer. No matter who YO? are, you will not be denied. It's kind oflike an ap- plication to community college. I would also like to offer a simi- lar prize for the capture and pos- session of· any waitress at Friendly's who is relatively well mannered and clean witli basic English skills. The prize: a date with current hot-stuff columnist Jon Tapper. Like Mr. Rossi, Jon makes the same claims as some credit card companies: \No mat• ter what your background or past history, you wilt not be denied.\ What makes this prize extra-spe- cial is the haircut that Mr. Tapper received the other day. The hair- dresser made him think that he looked so good that he could get just about any girl on campus. Now your dreams are a reality Jon- o! Finally, I would like to make a final mention ofthe hockey team. I know you're thinking, \What is this kid, obsessed with hockey and trying to be Canadian?\ Sure, I'm thinking the same thing, but I would like to congratulate them on picking tiP two hard fought victo- ries last weekend. Too bad they don't m~an anything! My lord ... we start winning only when we're out of playoff •contention? Well, there's always next year~ Note to hockey team: anything is possible as long as you give it the old Tiger'.s effmt! Well; as long as this is the last column oftheterm, why not throw a top•ten list into the mix? Here's a topic: The top-ten classes we would most like to be able to use to fulfill our Gen-Ed require- ments: 10. Who are you? The morn- ing after: A syoopsis of Union's hook-11p scene 9. Tile Bagel-. A three meal per day affair 8. Am I an alcoholic just be- cause I drink 6 nights a week? Parts I-VI 7. HDw to gain satisfaction from ltazing 6. Who are you? A synopsis of the administration's view on Schenectady 5. Diversity-what's that? 4. S11perficiality-a fine and cultivated art: Parts I-XXII 3. How to make school fun eveR with the reading 2. Finding food that doesn't give ycm terrible gas 1. How to use the send-out sec- tion of a J. Crew catalog With all of the other columns in the paper right now, I know that it is difficult to discriminate. But, make sure to give JQfl Tapper's a read today .. You will find it not only provocative but also easy to read and, what do you know, al- most exactly like mine (except that mine is mildly humorous). I definently reccomend Mr. Tapper's informative view to any.: one who likes my column. I'd better end on a good note. I would like to thank my most faith- ful readers this term: A list which includes Erin Rosenberg, Mark Seri~, and Jason Tracy. Send any comments about whether or not I should change my column from what it is to a story section. about my days as a 3 year old and how my life is so stressful (i.e. Michelle Tham) to box #1058; Sin celeb Galle exhit artist Ideal come seco1 sons n tWO I Mar1 aryc com Mall ernn ulty to tl T the tak~ the the off IDOl yea 1 on Sd fes: we' the be ot~ ta~ 15 in du Tl th th h1

Opinions Selling Out Our Legacy? Dear Editors, Every time I leave the great Northeast, almost the same con- versation transpires with men, old and young: Q: So where do you go to school? A: I go to Union. Q: You mean, the seminary up in Virginia? [Union Theo- logical in Richmond, VA] A: No, Union College-in upstate New York. Q: Oh, THAT Union, the \Mother of All Fraternities!\ A: Yes, that's the one ... Of course, I also inform them that we're over 200 years old, that the only 16-sided building in the Western Hemisphere is on our campus, and that we're the first school to offer liberal arts and en- gineering curriculums currently. The point is, old men and young men educated at University of Texas, University of Georgia, Au- burn, Ole Miss-virtually any school down south with fraterni- ties-know of this aspect of Union College's legacy. It's been hard to get a handle on what our legacy is supposed to be just by observing the administra- tion at Union College. Is our legacy to be a strong aca- demic institution with a decent hal- ences, and natural sciences-you know, \like Hamilton or Colgate\? Is it about our sports teams, which have captured conference tides and taught our classmates about dedication and the spirit of com- petition? Is it about our centuries- old fraternal orders (which are known by Southerners, even thought they don't completely \get\ what Northerners are about)? Is it about our buildings that make us look pretty enoHgh for Holly- wood to want to film a Streisand- Redford movie here? I'm not going to waste words with a pedantic discussion of \What Does It Mean to Be a Stu- dent at Union College.\ We all know that learning occurs all the time-whether we're intentionally at the library trying to memorize formulas or whether we're learn- ing to compromise with lousy roommates. Let's even set the learning and legacy issues aside for a moment and talk solutions. The administration wants to convert Alpha Delta Phi into the Admissions Office because of its prime location. The administra- tion wants to expand into the GE Plot, but \well-to-do\ families don't want students there. Why not move the Admissions Office into the President's Residence (in- cidentally right by the Blue Gate, which commemorates the found- ing of fraternities at Union Col- ance of humanities, arts, social scilege)? Prospective students could be surrounded by the aura of our past presidents and relics of Union College. Then we could move the President's Residence up to the GE Plot with the Deans' resi- dences t<J expand the campus and appease our neighbors to our east. Finally, allow the fraternities to retain their residences with stipu- lations regarding maintenance of these houses. This compromise would appease everyone-and re- taiR one of our priceless traditions. I'm n()t writing to extol the vir- tues of fraternities or bash the ad- ministration. What irritates me is that few students seem to be think- ing about what Union College's legacy is and should be. Has the administration usl:lrped power from students, or have we given it away? If we students don't start pro- posing alternatives to the \solu- tions\ our administration has de- vised for us, Union College will suffer, and we will have gotten ev- erything we deserve. I wonder what club, what house, what tra- dition will be the next target of the administration. Being a great school is not about having a bunch of nice buildings. Respectfully, Alissa Mayo Pointless Observations One Final Dissertation on Crack by David Kay Staff Writer Considering that the Concordy isll' t coming O\:lt again until the beginning of next April, I thought that I would try to write an extra special edition of my column by loading up on crack before I be- gin much like previous staff writer Uncle Edna did before his final dissertation. By doing this, I hope to make this week's column even more abnormal than expected. On crack, I would like to mention a few people and the extracurricu- lar bright spots/not so bright spots that they have taken part in this term. First off, I would like to make a public plead to Frank the grill guy at West. Yes, Frankistheman who makes sme to yell, \can I get you anything from the grill\ in just enough of a gruff tone ofvoice to make you realize the kind of jobs people land after getting out of jail. It turns out that freshman Jason Ralph foHnd a piece of good old Frank's mustache in his omelet just looked so good that he could get just about any girl on campus. Now your dreams are a reality Jon- o! Finally, 1 would like to make a fmal mention of the hockey team. I know you're thinking, \What is this kid, obsessed with hockey and trying to be Canadian?\ Sure, I'm thinking the same thing, but I would like to congratulate them on picking up two hard fought victo- ries last weekend. Too bad they don't mean anything! My lord ... we start winning only when we're out of playoff contention? Well, there's always next year. Note to hockey team: anything is possible as long as you give it the old Tiger's effort! Well, as long as this is the last column of the tenn, why notthrow a top-ten list into the mix? Here's a topic: The top-ten classes we would most like to be able to use to fulfill our Gen-Ed require- ments: 10. Who are you? The morn- ing after: A synopsis of Union's hook-up scene 9. The Bagel-A three meal per day affair ------------.,----------------------------4 three weeks ago. Even though he 8. Am I an alcoholic just be- cause I drink 6 nights a week? Parts I-VI Nott Colgate! Editor, I believe a fundamental but potentially important in- correct inference has been drawn by some regarding the proposed Campus Master Plan. Several times the plan has been criticized for trying to make \make us more like Hamilton and Colgate.\ At no time has this been the goa I. What the plan addresses, in a critical comparative context (which includes places like Hamilton, Colgate, etc.) are our facility needs, our strengths and weaknesses. While far from perfect, maybe not so far, Union is in a position of strength and get- ting stronger. Most elements of the proposal will only help! Kris Gcrnert-Dott '86 Asso~:iate Dean of Admissinns And Union Wonders ... (submitted by Kirsten Kohn) Sunday, March 1, 1998 Surrounded by books, pages of articles, and high levels of stress, I sit here (along with my study buddy) in the Nott Memorial with great ambition to produce an ad- ditional chunk of my thesis. One would think that the Nott would be an appropriate, if not incred- ible, place for such pursuit; how- ever, the other students are rapidly packing up their materials as the noise levels increase At this point, I wonder to my- selfwhat sort of yahoos are down- stairs conjuring up trouble and be- ing extremely annoying. I assume that they are just standard locals, passing through the Nott one more time. Or perhaps they are a group of visitors, captivated by the glory of the only sixteen sided building within thousands of miles, and just have to see the inside. Both these theories evidently are false; because there are now well over fifty people in here drinking punch, laughing profusely and having no regard for the student body here at Union. Furthermore. after stopping two young boys sprinting around the third floor at amazing speeds, I come to find that this brouhaha is a reception following a musical concert held in Memorial Chapel. This wouldn't be such a big deal if it was the middle of the day, at a school which provides adequate study facilities, and if finals weren't two weeks away. Let's honestly evaluate the situa- tion at hand. Tomorrow com- mences the first day of ninth week: term papers are due, last minute exams are squeezed in, and the students are suddenly frantic. So I sit here with only one question in mind, \what is Union thinking?\ How can Union hon- estly expect to be a highly com- petitive college with such disre- gard for student work habits. This particular situation isn't new here at Union. The school always manages to hold events at the end of the term. With limited space, the decisions to allocate such common areas through ven- ues not directly benefiting stu- dents is rather alarming. The events don't help or further the students academic endeavors but rather leave them as victims. As current students, we are left with lit1le: a library that is too small, loud and under construction; an empty, poorly I it dining hall for late night study; and a Not1 Me- morial full of punch and cookies. found this fact disturbing, he ate the omelet anyway. Missing this point completely though, I plead to Frank to place a hair net on his mustache while he cooks over the grill. Is this too much to ask? Next, I would like to make an offer to anyone who is willing to grab Dean Alford's bicycle for a five fingered discount. In the spring, Dem1 Alford rides his bike to school in the morning. Anyone who is bold enough to take up such a mission should immediately bring it up to the Concordiensis office for this prize: One big kiss on the lips from former Editor- in-ChiefFrank Rossi. And Frank doesn't discriminate either; he is an equal opportunity employer. No matter who you are, you will not be denied. It's kind of like an ap- plication to community college. I would also like to offer a simi- lar prize for the capture and pos- session of any waitress at Friendly's who is relatively well mannered and clean witli basic English skills. The prize: a date with current hot-stuff columnist Jon Tapper. Like Mr. Rossi, Jon makes the same claims as some credit card companies: \No mat- ter what your background or past history, you will not be denied.\ What makes this prize extra-spe· cial is the haircut that Mr. Tapper received the other day. The hair- dresser made him think that he 7. How to gain sa tis faction from hazing 6. Who are you? A synopsis of the administration's view on Schenectady 5. Diversity-what's that? 4. Superficiality-a fine and cultivated art: Parts I-XXII 3. How to make school fun even with tile reading 2. Finding food that doesn't give you terrible gas 1. How to use the send-out sec- tion of a J. Crew catalog With all of the other columns in the paper right now, I know that it is difficult to discriminate. But, make sure to give Jon Tapper's a read today. You will ftnd it not only provocative but also easy to read and, what do you know, al- most exactly like mine (except that mine is mildly humorous). I definently reccomend Mr. Tapper's informative view to any- one who likes my column. I'd better end on a g<Jod note. I would like to thank my most faith- ful readers this term: A list which includes Erin Rosenberg, Mark Serio, and Jason Tracy. Send any comments about whether or not I should change my column from what it is to a story section about my days as a 3 year old and how my life is so stressful (i.e. Michelle Tham) to b<Jx #1058. ~ .; OP ~ j Si: celel Gall ex hi artis Idea com secc som T two Ma1 ary con Ma ern' ult) tot 1 the tak the the of me ye; of Sc fe~ Wf thl be ot ta' I: ir d T tl tl h

An Event of a Lifetime Since the cotnpl<ltion of the refurbishment of the Nott Memorial in celebration of:tbe bicentennial ofthe college in 1995, .the Mandeville Gallery on the sec::ond floor of the building has been home to numerous exhibits. rn addition to the works of many well-known Capitol District artists, the Nett bCJasted the work of Norman Rockwell, \American Idealism and Everyday Life'; this past summer. As t}Je winter term comes to a clos.e,. the Nott will serve as the exhibit space on the first and second floors for·one of the world's greatest traveling exhibits, \Les- sons for Huma11ity.\ The two part: e:xhibit begins on March 15, with Union playing host to two of the tnostl'enowned \Nazi Hunters\ in the world fora lecture on March 15. Union: will pre~entSerge and Heate Klarsfeldwith honor- ary degreesataMarch l5 ceremony in Memorial ChapeL TheKlarsfelds come .from Frlln.ce where the controversial tria.} of eighty-nioe year old Maurice Papo11, an accused. Nazi collaborator during the Vichy Gov- ernment is taking in place in Bordeaux. Union College's students, fac- ulty, and.staff sllo;uldbe.honoredto have these two humanitarians come to the College. The Klarsfeld's visit will touch off a month of events dedicated to the remembramc::e of the Holocaust. The college community should take advantag·e of tne events that range from films to lectures through the month of A:pril. Unfortunately, the Klarsfeld visit and opening of the exhibit at th-e Nott coincide with finals week. Despite the pressures of finals, UniO!l·students and faculty should take the time to go to Me- morial Chape 1 and honor two people wbo have spent'more than thirty years seeking. jllstice for victims of the Holocaust. The·CQllege:.~nununity should also prepare itself for the steady stream of visitors who will be making their way to Union to view this ex11ibit. School children from the Capitol District, various religious groups, pro- fessors, and historians to name a few grace the campus during the five week exhibit. It is important that we, as a college community, show these visitors. respect and keep the college grounds in order. It would be a poor reproesentation of the student body that we have, if we did otherwise .. We; at TheConcordiensis, strongly urge the campus 'Community to take time out during this hectic time of the term and attend the March 15 \Conversationwitllthe Klarsfelds.\ It will truly be worth your while. A Final Word As the Wintl:erterm conies to a close, so does my tenure as Edifor- in-Chief of 'lhle Concordiensis. I have learned a tremendous amount during my tel'lll a.s editor and will always remember the experience. The Concordiensis does not function without a strong staff, some- thing that w:as not lacking during my term. I wish the future editors the best of luck and thank the campus community for the input they have given to the newspaper. Sincerely, Jonathan Gasthalter Editor- in~Chief • • tntons 1~\ •• ,-----· Suo@ ~v ......

' : l .I I \ I' < An Event of a Lifeti1ne Since the completion of the refurbishmeNt of the Nott Memorial in celebration of the biceliltennial of the college in 1995, the Man deville Gallery on the second floor ofthe bui.lding has beeN home to n11merous exhibit~. In addition to the works of many well-known Capito 1 District artists, tile Nott boasted the work of Norman Rockwell, '~American Idealism and Everyday Life\ this past summer. As the winter tenn comes to a dose, the Nott will serve as the exhibit space on the first and second floors for one of the world's greatest 1raveling exllibits, \Les- sons fu Humanity.\ The two part exhibit begins on March 15, vtith Union playin~host to two of the most renowned \Nazi Hunters\ in the world for~ becture on March 15. Union will present Serge and Beate Klarsfeld witll honor- ary deg;reesat a March 15 ceremony in Memorial Chapel. TheKLarsfelds come from France where the controversial trial of eighty-ni11e year old Maurice Papon, a11 accused Nazi collaborat()r during the Vi<:hy Gov- ernment is taking in place in Bordeaux. Union CoHege's students, fac- ulty, ancl staff should be honored to have these two human:itaria;ns come to the College. The Klarsfeld's visit will touch off a month of events cle(jicated to the rernembrance of the Holocaust. The college community should take advantage of the events that range from films to lectures through the moath of April. Unfortunately, the Klarsfeld visit and ()p·ening of the exhibit at the Nott coincide with finals week. Despite th~ pressures of fin~ls, Union students and faculty should take the timet() g<l to Me- morial Chapel and honor two people who I:Jave spent·mme than thirty years seeking justice for victims of the Holocaust. The C()llege community should also prepare itself for the steady stream of visitors who will be making their way to Union to view this ex\hibit. Scho()l children from the Capitol District, various religious gr&ups, pro- fessors, and historians to name a few grace the campus duri11g the five week e:xhibit. It is important that we, as a college community, show these visitors respect and keep the college grounds in orcle:r. It would be a poor representation of the student body that we have, jf we did otherwise. w~. at The Concordiensis, strongly urge the campus COJIJmunity to take time out during this hectic time of the term and atte11d the March 15 '\Conversation with the Klarsfelds.\ It will truly be wortll your while. A Final Word As tile Winter term comes to a close, so does my tenure as Edifor- in-Chief of The Concordiensis. I have learned a tremendous amount dur-i[]g my term as editor and will always remember the experience. The Concordiensis does not function with()ut a strong staff, some- thing that was not lacking during my term. I wish the futu.Fe editors the best of luck and thank the campus community for the imput they have given to the newspaper. =~~~~a··· :flJite-CortlJtJ~ifrii~ie\'n 'sis Sincerely, Jonathan (J:asthalter Editor-in-Chief Opinions \\ ho@ ~u ...... · . · · · - · _.~· < :.. . ·· · \ . . ~-9~!~y. J~i~c aii.ner . . ' ~ > A <' ~: ~ ~·;!:;: -p:,' \> ~ ' ' ~ > ~ -~:I ' ~ ~> l,' 4'> ....... ~~ !.'';,~ ' -fi I ~ f .,_ ( ~- ~\ /' A (·\: '- ' Letters to the E4itor should be ·addresse(l tg·tQ.e. OP/EDJiage Md ~~st be _re(feived by 5 p.m.·the Monday before publication. Letters must less than sooword$:,~<J.,·s~t3u~~;~~~a~Y9;~an:,:fssueth~V,Yi~~~qj,·' :~:·.' J\}pi:,~;g~l~·$~.~9~%!~~Y~ .. F~~~~.·~.~!~~ons c~n~mingprintingand! editing a submission belon-g to t1ieEditciriat·Board::AIJ·l~ft~.rs':m~~t:·b.e.;sigile.d.anp saved Qn a high ~.ensity,disk, although the author's need not ·appear in the :newspaper, tf the writer·so·specifi~~_. .. :Letier~ 4~ not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Edit<}tia] Board. . Editorials reflect the opin,ion of a majority: of the E4itorial BQ~(ljJtn4 .ofpo. on,e member in particular. Any opinion columns or cartoons the opinions of the writers or artists·, ~d Qot necessarily~ihe':qpfii~rin~'pffue Editorial Board. , • • • • • \ '.' ., •. 4,- • --~ • • \ ' • .~.' • '· • Advertisements app~ng irt T;,~e 99..'!,CCJrf/,if!_rzs.i~ · .· refl.e¢t the opinions of the Editorial Board. The Concordie.'f!.S ·· ' • •' ' ..,.- -~' ''•·f, ..... ·-· :·~'1' • .'' \' ,lr· •, :· -, . '\··}.'; l . ·1.\ . - . ' • .. . . : -. ·, -' ..

MONDAY, MARCH 16, 1998 • 9:00·11:00 A.M. 810*026*01 The Cell w/Lab Danowski/Smith BAIL207 GRK*130*01 Homers The Odyssey Toher,M. HUMN 113 810*046*01 Intra to Psychobiology We:isse, C .• BAIL 102 MER*035*01 Engineering Reliability Bucinell, R. NWSE 205 810*154*01 Developmental Biology w/Lab Boyer, B. BAIL201 MTH*010*01 Calculus 1 Zwicker, W. BUTR 109 I{ CER*033*01 Fluid Mechanics w/Lab Je\'1'&11, T. BUTR 300 PHL*132*01 Sem:Leibniztllrough Kant Ludwig, J. HUMN 119 he CHM*150*01 Physical Chemistry 1 w/Lab Anderson, J. BAIL 106 PHY*120*01 Astronomy & Astrophysics Marr; J:M. NWSE 303 di CHN*121*01 Intermediate Chinese 2 Feng, J.P SSCI213 PSC*011*01 Intra to American Politics Fox,·R. HUMN 114 CLS*021*01 History of Greece M&c\ler M. HUMN019 br.: CLS*044*01 Poetry & the Cosmos Mace, S. HUMN 11~ WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 1998 • 9:00;.11:00 A.M. ill EC0*139*01 Public Finance Mt:Garty, T. SSCI012 810*010*01 Biology 1 w/Lab Tobiessen, P. BAIL201 hf EER*143*01 Electromagnetic Engineering 1 Cha111g, Y. NWSE 116 BI0*012*01 Biology 2 w/Lab Pytel, B. SSCHl14 ESC*022*01' Mechanics II:Material Science MiEjllo, F. NWSE210 810*1'50*01 Evolutionary Biology Boyer, J. SSCI012 sj HST*013*01 History of US to Civil War Sterngass, J. SSCI112 ECOt<Q51*01 Environmental Economics Kenney, J. SSCI103 d HST*014*01 History .of US Since Civil War Feiler, A. HUMN 11!> EC0*140*01 Labor Economics Prosper, P. SSCI112 Jf HST*035*01 History of Europe 1 Sarg.ent, S. SSCI103 EER*144*01 Communication Systems 1 Hassib, E. NWSE21D HST*036*01 History of Europe 2 Hansen, E. SSCI104 FRN*010~01 Basic French 1 Scheuer, A. HUM!\1110 n. HST*036*02 History of Europe 2 Berk., S. HUMN 114 FRN*011*01 Basic French 2 Dogbe, C. HUMN112 Jl. JPN*121*01 Intermediate Japanese 2 Wojnovich, M. SSCI010 GE0\'11*01 The Earth & life thru Time Shaw, G. BUTR 201 s~ JPN*131*01 Advanced lnterm Japanese II Kurichara, N. HUMN 113 GER*010*01 Basic German 1 Kellenter, S. HUMN116 MER*164*01 Solar 'f:;nergy Analysis & Design Wilk,R NWSE205 HST\'44m1 The Second World War Era Hansen, E. SSCI'104 v MTW100*01 Orthogonal Functions Bick., T. BAIL 100 MER*033*01 Fluid Mechanics I W/Lab Shanebrook, J. NWSE222 s· PHL*020*01 Logic & Critical Reasoning W{)rmack, C. SSCI016 PSY\'010*01 I ntro to Psycholqgy DeBono; K. 6AIL312 PSY*020*02 Statistical Methods/Psychology Greenberg, S. BAIL300 PSY\'020*01 Statistical Methods/Psychology Marling, B. BAil102 ro PSY*024*01 Social Psychology DeEiono, K. BAIL312 PSY*025*01 Experimental Psych w/Lab Bums, 0. J. BAIL300 II PSY*046*01 Intra to Psychobiology Weisse, C. BAIL 102 SPN'\011 *02 Basic Spanish 2 lzurieta, I. HUMN 114 t SOC*024*01 Social Psychology DeBono, K. BAIL312 SPN*120*01 Intermediate Spanish 1 Torres, B. HUMN 11~ r: SPN*149*01 La Generacion del 98 l~:urieta, I. HUMN014 SPN*121*02 Intermediate S panish 2 Camacho, L. HUMN117 c MONDAY, MARCH 16, 1998 -1:00·3:00 P.M. WEDNESDAY 1 MARCH 18, 1998 -.1:00·3:()0 P.M. I AMU*030*01 American Music Olsen, T. ARTS215 MTH*01Q1'02 Calculus 1 MucKenfuss, J. BUiR 109 c ANT*025*01 Anthro Prespective:Childhood B·ri~on, K. HUMN110 MTH*012\01 Calculus 2 Sick, T. BAIL 104 IE ANT*075*01 Biology of Homosapiens B.o)fer, J. BAIL 104 MTH*012*02 Calculus 2 Hart,J.. ARiS 109 r;: 810~075~01 Biology of Homosapiens &ol(er, J. BAIL 104 MTH*012*03 Calculus 2 Rosenthal, K BAIL201 c EC0*012*02 Introduction to Economics Motahar, E. SSCI112 MTH*012*04 Calculus 2 Hart, J. ARTS 109 r • EER*040*01 Circuits & Systems w/Lab Spinelli, J. NWSE1Hl MTH*015*01 Calculus 3 Cervone, D.P. HUMN 014 .. EGL*027*01 Comedy Heinegg, P. HUMN115 MTH\015*02 Calculus 3 Johnson, B. HUMN 019 FRN*121*01 Intermediate French 2 Currran, A. HUMN 014 MTH*031*01 Linear Algebra.& Diff Equation Zulli, L. BAIL 100 GER*011*01 Basic German 2 Gi(luere,. U. HUMN1Hl MTH*031*02 ~i!}ear Algebra& Diff Equation Rosenthal, K. BAIL 201 GER*139*01 German Lit: 19th Century 11amm-Ehsani, K HUMN 213 MTH*058*01 Appls of Matll to Eco 1 Fairchild, W. BAIL 207 GER*149*01 German Lit & Culture: 19th Cent Hamm-Ehsani, K HUMN 213 MTH*058\02 Appls of Matll to Eco 1 Fairchild, W. BAIL207 HST*045*01 Tudor England: 1485-1603 Halliday, P. SSCI10~ HST*113*D1 Popular Culture in Amer Hst Sterngass, J. HUMN 114 THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 1998 • 9:00-11:00 A;M, MER*041*01 Engineering Design 2 w/Lab l<eat, W.O. NWSE 222 MH*012*02 Intra to Art 1-Hstory -2 Matthew, L. ARTS 2i5 MTH*056*01 Geometry of Nature Frame, M; STZH106 ACC*010*01 Survey of Accounting Fisher, I. HUMN 110 MTH*140*01 Linear Algebra Johnson, B. BAIL300 AMU*021*D1 Music History &Lit 2 McMullen, D. ARTS 313 PHL*012*01 Reason & Experience Ludwig, J. ARTS 109 ANT*067*01 East Asian Development/Society Reynolds, B. SSCID14 PHY*042*01 Ideas (j Modern Physics Topor, t'-1. NWSE 114 BI0*165*01 Neural Circuits & Behavior Olberg, R. BAIL 102 PSC*084*01 Political Sociology Weiner, T. SSCI103 CLS*032*01 Religion in the Pagan World Scullion, J.S. HUMN 112 RUS*011*01 Basic Russian 2 Po.-weii-Sapienza HUMN J13 CLS*051*01 Sem:Aiexander the Great Toher, M. HUMN213 .; SOC*124*01 Political Sociology \Neiner, T. SSCI103 ECO*OW01 East Asian Development/Society Reynolds, B. SSCI014 SPN*120*02 Intermediate Spanish 1 Camacllo, L. SSCI014 EC0*141*01 Monetary Economics Kwok, c. SSCI012 SPN*121*0'1 Intermediate Spanish 2 tAoyano, P. HUMN 117 EGL*021*01 Major English Authors 3 ,,. Frazier, A. HUMN115 EGL*035*01 Studies in World lit Heinegg,P. SSCI01:6 .. MONDAY, MARCH 16, 1998 • 4:30-6:30 P.M. GE0*025*01 Tectonics Garver, J. l. BUTR Ul1 CSC*010*01 Computers & Computing Almstead, l. STZH 106 MTH*028*01 Probability Bowman, R.A. BAIL106 CSC*010'*02 Computers & Computing lied rick. J. HUMN019 PSC*012*01 lntro International Politics Brown, C. SSCI1()4 CSC*010*03 Computers & Computing !Hedrick. J. HUMN019 PSC*062*01 Supreme Court&Judicial Politic· Fox, R. SSCI11.2 PSC*162*01 Political Leadership in Amer Underwood, J. SSCI11:0 TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 1998-9:00-11:00 A.M. PSY*010*04 Intra to Psychology Rubonis, A. BAIL207 AAH*012*01 I ntro Art His tory - 2 EY{erman, C. ARTS l15 PSY*050*01 Educational Psychology Paludi, M. BAil20'1 BI0*010•02 Biology 1 w/lab Heisllrnan, L. SSCI014 PSY*062*01 Practicum in Human Relations 1 Dowling, T. BA1t31:2 BI0*012.02 Biology 2 w/Lab Minorsky, P. COLC BI0*147.01 Immunology wJLab Lauzon, R. HUMN014 THURSDAY 1 MARCH 19, 1998 • 1:00·3:00 P.M. 810*170*01 General Endocrinology Buttersteirt, G NWSE116 CER*152*01 Environmerdal Engg ·1 w/Lab Gremillion, P. STZH 106 CER*142*01 Soil Mechanics w/Lab G·haly, A BUTR300 \CHM*01 0'*01 Fund Chemistry 1 w/Lab Hagerman, M. HUMN()19 CHM*182*01 Protein Biochemistry w/Lab Fcx, K. STZH106 CHM*010*02 Fund Chemistry 1 w/Lab Carroll, M. HUMN ()19 CHN*011*01 Basic Chinese 2 Feng. J.P SSCI213 CHM*032*01 Organic Chemistry 2 w/Lab Sowa, J. BUiR204 EC0*131*01 Topics in Microeconomics S.::hmidt, S.J~ SSCI110 CHM*032*02 Organic Chemistry 2 w/Lab Hull, L. BUiR204 EGL-022-01 Major American Authors f'llacDonald, B. HUMN 117 EC0*042*01 Macro Theory & Policy Kwok, C. SSCI103 ESC*025*01 Electric Circuits w/Lab Fatic, V. NWSE210 IMP*012*01 lnt Matli/Physics 2 w/Lab Barbanei/Reich NINSE 112 FRN*120*01 Intermediate French 1 S<eheuer, A. HUMN 112 IMP*012*02 lnt Math/Physics 2 w/Lab Barbanel/Reich NWSE 114 FRN*132*01 Survey:French Ut 2 l>ogbe, C. HUMN119 MTH*017*01 Calculus rV:Integral Vector Zulli, L. BA:IL 10S GER*120*01 Intermediate German 1 Giguere, U. HUMN 116 GER*t21*01 Intermediate German 2 Giguere, U. HUMN.116 FRIDAY, MARCH 2~ 1998 • 9:00-11:00 A.M. GRK*011*01 Pri11ciples of Greek 2 Mlace, S. HUMN 213 MH*034*01 19th Century Euro Paint/Sculpt Eyerman, C. ARTS:215 HST*Oi9*01 America between the World Wars flenry, S. SSCI W4 ANT\'18*01 Applied Anthropology Schaefer, J.G. SSCI110 HST*056*01 History of Poland Berk, S. HUMN 11~ CER*129*01 Analysis & Oesign ofStructure Mafi, M. BUTR 109 HST*078*01 Classical Africa ~iller, A.T. SSCI 010 CHM*012*01 Fund Chemistry 2 w/Lab Werner, T. 81\IL105 HST*084*01 The Scientific. Revolution Sarg€nt, S. HUMN 114 CHM*012*02 Fund Chemistry 2 w/Lab Lou, K. BUTR 204 JPN*011*01· Basic Japanese 2 IJ!Vojrmvich, M. ARTS210 EC0*148*01 · Seminar: E<:onometrics Schmidt, S.J. HUMN 014 LAT*011*01 Principles of Latin 2 Scullion, J.S. HUMN 110 EER*118*01 Digital Computer Design w/Lab Traver, C. ST\ZH106 MER*OB2*01 Thermal Energy Conversion Wicks, F. NWSE222 ESC*021*01 Mechanics I w/Lab Anderson: A.M. NWSE205 MTH*099*01 Intra to logic & Set Theory Taylor, A. STZH108 FRN*144~01 Exoticism Curran, A. HUM!'! 113 PHL*159*01 Post Modernism Patrik, L. SSCI105 HEB*011~01 Basic Hebrew 2 Aimog, M. HUMt1116 PHY*016*01 Physics/Life Sciences 2 w/Lab 'tMarr, J. NWSE 114 HST*129*01 African-American Thought Miller, A.T. SSCI103 PHY*051*01 lntenm Modem Physics w/Lab McWhirter, J. NWSE328 LAT*145\'01 Cicero Meckler, M. HUMt-.1119 PSC*013*01 Intra to Political Thought Board. J. SSCI112 MTH*124*01 Geometry F'rame, M. BAIL 100 PSC*033*01 20th Cent Amer Polit Thought Marso., L. SSCI012 PHL*038*01 Eastern Philosophy Patrik, L. 11UMI'J 112 PSY*010*02 Intra to Psychology .Benack, S. BAILZ07 PHL*174*01 Biomedical Ethics Baker, R. HUMN1117 PSY*010*03 lntro to Psychology Donaldson, G. BAIL201 PHY*052*01 ln1ermed Classical Mechanics Maleki, S. STZH 108 PSY*033*01 Psychology of Memory/Thinking Burns. D.J. BAIL312 PSC*139*01 Seminar:Political Theory Marso, L. SSCl1G5 PSY*038*01 Developmental Psychology Stanhope, L. BAIL300 PSY*030*01 Personality Marling, B. BAil312 SPN*010*02 Basic Spanish 1 Osuna, M. 8AIL106 RUS*132*01 Russian Literature 2 Poweii-Sapienza HUMN213 SPN*130*01 lntro:Spanish & Spn Amer ~it Moyar10, P. BAIL1~0 SOC*D37*01 Social Movements/Interest Grps Willison, M. NWSE222 TUESDAY 1 MARCH 17, 1998 ·1:00-3:00 P.M, FRIDAY, MARCH 20 1 1998 • 1:0()·3:00 P.M. ANT*010*01 Cultural AntJlropology Cooi,L HUMN11.0 EC0*012*01 lntr.oductio.n to Economics Schmidt, S:S. SSCI 016 810*072*01 Preserving Biodiversity w/Lab !Schadler, rY1· BAIL100 EC0*012*03 Introduction to Economics Schmidt, S.S. SSCI01B EC0*020*01 lntro to Statistical Analysis Okeeffe, M. HUMN014 1Tt!'010*01 Basic Italian 1 Faustini,. G. SSCI 014 EC0*031*01 Microeconomic Analysis Reynolds, B. SSCI1(}4. ITL*010*02 Basic Italian 1 Faustini, G. SSCI 014 EER*148*01 Digital Circuits Hilssib, E. NWSE222 PHY*017'01 General Physics 1 Dunn, J: NWSE116 EGL*046*01 Modern Drama Frazier, A. HUMN1l2 PHY\'17*02 General Physics 1 Dunn, J. NWSE300 ESC*017*01 . Fundamentals of Eng/CS 2 wllab Almstead, L . NWSE114 PHY*017*03 General Physics 1 w/Lab Khosropour, R. ~WSE114 ESC*017*02 Fundamentals of Eng/CS 2 w/Lab Bucinell, R. NWSE116 PHY*018\01 General Pllysics 2 w/Lab Jones, C. ~WS,t304 ESC*017*03 Fundamentals of Eng/CS 2 w/Lab Macherone, a. NWSE210 PHY\'18*02 General Physics 2 w/Lab . Topor, N. NWS.E304 ESC*017\04 Fundamentals of Eng/CS 2 w/Lab Wo1fe,F.A. NWSE110 PHY*018\03 · General Physics 2 w/Lab Rodrigue:z, G. NWSE328 GE0*020*01 Mineralogy w/Lab Hollocher, 1<. BUTR201 SPN*011*01 Basic Spanish 2 . lorres, B. HUMN 114

A Healthy Investment in Your Future Health Care. ·Those two words have be:en the so.ur.ce of much discu:Jsion re~ntly. Probably because we as a nation know the iMEO_ttance of investing in a beilthy future . . .Se do millions of patients who <:boo$e chi.roptacnc as their P!efetted source of health care .. The chiropractic beliefs in :fi.tness:t nutrition, prevention, and natural maintenance make good sense. Wcllness 1 you see~ is the normal state of being. NewYol!k State government .agrees. They have r«:ently pas~d the Insurance Equality bill that mandates insurance coverage fQr chir(}practic care. Por o-ver 75 years, New York Chiropmctic College bas upheld a tradition .of excellence in cnir-o.practic higher education .. Our co.mbincd traditions, old and new, have built the base fiom which the chiropractic doct0ors cf rli-e future are created. Choose New York Chiropractic College. A healthy invcstme.nt for today and tomorrow. Be ~ur guest at Sprint;. Open H()ase, -Saturday, Apnl 4, 1998. R.S.V.P. br March 27 (80()} 234-NYCC .... .. fl}. E tORK 1 .,,,, · N· w· u · · .• 11\\\l mflt.. CHIROPRACTIC COLLEGE 2360 Route 89 Seneca F~ls. NY 13148- ·. 0800 Phone: 315/568-3040 or 800/234-NYCC (6922) Fax:: 315/568-30$7 E-mall: enrolnaw@nycc.edu APARTMENTS/ HOUSES Can Accomodate 3 ~ 21 Students for 1998- 1999 All apartments/ houses are remodeled .throughout and include all appliances, furnishings, parking and more ... l or 2 year lease(s) Call370-5498 . 8rCAS . Buyrsen, ~de Har4 to find titles : ~ ................ j .............. $7 .. 99 ea. or B,ES .......... : ..... -.~ ....... $a,.90 ea .. or ''\' :;etfK:t COs ........... :~~·.:'$3 ea. or VIDEOS ....... 2 for $10

By Michelle Tham Features Editor I couldn't help noticing the sitsbe1Jin.d a desk and does home- ·question in OP/ED last week. workf(i)r eight hours a week gets , Does UnionhaveadrugProblem? paid ti::Je:same salary as a person Is the administration aware of it? working in the trenches of West . Well, the answer is yes .. Union has or tile Sl<ellar. Last Thursday I went to New quiet suburbia to work hi the city , a h~,~ge. drug problem, and the ad· Besides working with · York 'City for the day with my ... too good for the. soot-stained . minis1ration is not only aware of Schen<ectady's finest upstandi~g painting cJass. After a sleepy four buildings and yearning for the end it, they are one ofthe many groups citizeits, w-orking for Dining Ser- hours on the not-so-comfortable of the day and a return to white- on ·campus that have a drug prob- vices l'eq uires plenty of manual bus, I found myself outside the picket bliss. · I em. So~ let's start withthe admin- lab()r,. Hmrnm. Some students get Museum of Modern Art and'ready Every place you tum, every city istration. toch~nge a film at the campus ceo- to expJere. you encountet, every age or gen- . One of the drugs they abuse is ter IIIJd <lo homework, while oth- My home is about half an hour eration you are in, holds these the ''We love power, and you can't ers \i'IJl:ISl! .dishes or clean up lab from New York City. I go there same people within their walls. do anything about it\ drug. I chenic~t.IS. Beware the dangers of pretty often, so it has become a fa- Maybe they exist in slightly dif- would like to extend a big, warm drugs, miliar scene to me -- filled with the ferent forms, hut they are there. It · middle finger to the faceless AAC :Aatl~tu:sually high percentage of vacant stares of strangers and the was am1,1singforme to watch it all. and the others who are running the the stu<le11t body is. also constantly sifting smoke ofovercooked chest-. To see the ridiculous social barri- \Schedule Scam of'C).8.\ Yes, this smokingadrug commonly known nuts .. There is a certain mood and ers that fell like p)exi-glass walls • issue is played out, but they have as '\M~trijuana.\ There is a certain · overwhelming atmosphere to each between the parts of the city' · decided to ·keep it for next tenn. groul) ()f women who need this section of the city th;:tt seems· to where you could see the other side, Besides the whole lunch thing, druj!1() fa.ll aslc;:ep at night, due to physically split the air between but never make it through to be then~ is another problem that is the c.()nstant hunger .pains of eat- streets. Fifth Avenue is haughti- able to belong. I guess I had as~ obvious: looking through the Pre- ing n<Jtliillg. Although this is a sad ness taken to the extreme. sumed that after the pettiness of.· Jiminary Course Schedule for the prol)lem,.there are many benefits . Rockefeller Center is filled with adolescence and too-young adult- spring, 1 noticed that every class from :the abuse of this drug. commercialized grandeur and hood., there would be something is at 11:00 AM. Th~ C()nvenience store is con- overpriced recre-.-----~--.......------,more. I have al- Actuallyit'snoteveryclass,just stantly selling out of Twinkies, ation. Places like . ways been too na- the ones that I want to take. We helping it make . Little Italy and \It was amusing.for ive. seriously need that 12 ~----~---.money. Thefmeestab- Chinatown are me to watch it all. To As we walked o'clock class time \Residence 'lishment of Howler's little pieces of see the ridiculous through the shops back. It's so obvious.' life has a di'Uf: .receives overwhelm- countries where · socia.l barriers thatfiell and overpriced A certain professor ,, · 'ing business from problem as wt~i.. store signs are 1 1 \ke. plext·.:.glass walls madness of Up- who I work forwentto .., Union students; r; The highly tta~- scattered with un- between th. e pa\'\s oif town NYC, some- ask them about possi- And, it is a perfectly ',. dictive substa11~e familiar letters one said some- hly bringing the old legalsocialalternative thecity .. \\'whereyou h' ·ht t k thatthe\'reo11i~ and voices speak t mg t a s rue · · schedule back The ad- .., to drinking. No one could see the other Ab t t called the 'fBarl 1 b in confusing me. ou 0 inistration ignored ever goes to El is e .. tongues. Down- side, but.never make it stroll· into . him completely, be- Decision\ drll.fr}~ cause of this drug. townNewYorkis throughtobeableto . Tiffanisorsome cause they're mean .Eventually the Nott a scary place to be belong.\ other altogether people. The drug that L- ______ -..~will become the first at night -- there luxuriant store in was aforementioned is controlling ever \~ i\teen Sided 80-foot'.' are no blue secu- L __________ ___..~ our faded jeans the brains ofcertain people. Just bong. M!lrijuana, I hope you be· rity lights to run to. In a lot of ways, and not-so-polished shoes, I heard, don't ask them if they inhal'ed. come illegal someday. Damn you. New York City is a strange alter- \Eccentric billionaire ... maybe Residence life has a drug prob- Damfl)!Dil. to hell. nate universe, where grass is a rar- they' II think I am an eccentric bil- Jem as well. The highly addictive N ()VI,. !SD!Jle might say that be- ity and crowds of people are all too lionaire who doesn't like to dress substance that they're on is called cause ()'f tllese reasons, the school engulfing. Compared to Union up, and then they'll be nice!\ I the \Bad Decision\ drug. Why has a (!rug problem. But we must College's cast-iiun gates and quiet was laughing, but the comment would anyone make a dorm Iik~ get t() tile l!eart. of the matter and cement pathways, the \real world\ made me think. Preconceived Webster, which borders two main define the term \Drug Problem.\ ofNew York City feels so foreign. ideas and social rigidity are so roads, a substance-free residence? One .deft11Hion of a drug problem However, the city is just another prevalent in every atmosphere and People who don't like alcohol or is doi11g unfavorable sexual acts representation of the omnipresent every environment. We have to drugs probably don't like loud for drug money. If this is your social class distinction that is in make up stories and convoluted horns and constant fire truck siren deftni1ionof a drug problem, then any high school classroom, on any fantasies so people will be nice to bombardment at the wee hours of yes, Un iorr has a drug problem. college campus, or along the us? So that people in that upper the night either. The only way that Anotlter definition of a drug streets of any town. It is strange echelon of social fancy will ac- anyone could enjoy living on a proble1n is many students being how we seem to segregate our- knowledge our existence? Pretty main road is if they do drugs. Sup- addict~dt(} hard drugs like cocaine selves. New York City is the per- sad. . posedly, police cars leave great and ht:roitl. This is definitely a feet example. There are social So where do I stand? I am not trails. problein at Union. It is the soli- climbers, those people who push quite sure. I would like to think The financial aid department, tary reasoll that everyone is sleep- themselves to the so-called top, to that it doesn't matter. I would like unbeknownst to many, is con- ing in cb:ss all the time. find their way among the Fifth Av- to believe my social circle spans stantly free basing the ''Give some The fim.l definition of a drug enue glamour and attitude, much . diverse and breaks down those people easy work study jobs and probl~ll'lis doing drugs then com- like the Kelly Taylors of your high plexi-glass walls. Reality tells me . give other people jobs comparable ing licHae md beating up your kids schooL You know, the girls that · otherwise~ though. I know I live .to working at a foreign Nike fac- and sp()U:Se. I will leave this up did anything to be in. the \cool'; in a sheltered bubble. I will never · tory\ drug. for .dellate. clique. understandwhat it feels like to beg It's funny how someone who There are the quietly eccentric for food or to buy clothing from inhabitants of the Village, decked the Salvation Anny because of out in some leather and silver need rather than choice. Then chain-type ensemble with purple again, I will probably never kn.ow hair and an ideology to match. what it feels like to pay $1500 for Then there are those fresh-out-of- shoes at Gucci because 1 need a college faces with so many hopes pick-me-up, and aspirations, bouncing down But that's fme. As long as I stand . the streets of the city with ambi- oblivious to what I don't have or tion and so much heart. to what I have so much of in com- Wall Street hosts those cut- parison, I can be safe. the _ques- throat; 1-am-master-of-the-uni- tion is, atn I missing something verse-type charact~rs who always really important by being \safe? 1 ' · · used to pretend they didn't know Am I missing everything in the · tl1e answers in economics class security of my ignorance? I am because they were so competitive. not sure. For now, I just think · There are the commuters, train- about it quietly and close my eyes, tracked in on Greyhound from because .I know that J:don 't want to see. t l £ \ l l I ' :j ~1:2~ TJ s The track a indoor Sa turd State I herein Bingh: petitio byFre The elever beatin. withe tively. lastye still f; place: Itha tition · St. La· TheU teenth tical tc Ace Cottr smoot out oi hers i1 the ta1 tors, t atmos meet. Lea stan de all se; Sanat 45m< leg on 45mt his se~ the fi behin (5.54: Bingl again finals cious tough The D ... con howe the I shar you11 tainJ tearr those whe1 theli full € just • that with and ing J foun has·

It is eurrently 7:27 PM on Tue,s- day night. I, Jim DeWan. have been commissioned to pen an ~r­ ticle and use the pen name Eugene Schultz. I was left W:ith half an article an<! told to \finish it.\ Sur- prisingly enough,. Eugene 'had written about the opposite sex, and the tensions betweentlletwo, high- lighting his own personal case .of frustration in dealing with females. I know, for one thing, lam not the only one sick of reading. that Eu- gene isn't, to be blunt, getting any. We, honest to God, do not care, Eugene, Most of us aren't either. The ones that are sho!l.Jd just shut up about it. Amen. Enough of that. Now my task is to find out what else Eugene would logically say. I think he would write about some- thing, complain abouttbe situation at Union, and then apply it to him- self in his typical self-defeatist fashion. Doubt me? Look at the name ofthe kid's column. Riding the Pine~ Hell, he even tried to double dip, and name his HI-fated solo radio project on WRUC the same thing. The author of this column has become obsessed with defeating himself. Some may call me a hypocrite here because both of 11le people that listen to my radio show, the award-winning Chicago Street Fight{ThursdayNights, ll-1 PM), will realize that I, myself, am a constant self-defeatist. However, I like to think that this is merely a There are somethingsin life that are easy to put together; some ac- tiVities just work out with little· or no effort. A b~nd is not one of those things. Trying to make a band work often feels like chasing a windmill. The evening ofValentine's Day I went down to Cafe Lena's in Saratoga to catch a band called \The Explosives.\ I'd read about them a few weeks before when they had been mercilessly com- pared to The Beatles -in The Metro/and. Granted, it's quite a compliment to be compared to The Beatles but it's also a lot to live up to. In any case, I found myself anx- ious to hear them play. I'm not going to try to explain their sound. I'm not a music re- viewer and if I tried to throw out some flowery description like,. \ ... the combined hannoniesofthe dual frontmen flow together to cre- ate a sound that is at once driving and soothing ... \ you would think me completely full of it. All I will say is thatthey were amazing writ- ers and interesting perfonners as well as being technically profi- cient I highly suggest you take any opportunity to see them. Scan your Metro/and; they play all over. After the set I come ted Richard Baldesand John Brodeur, the lead duo of the four-mao operation, in facade, and that I do not honestly believe that I .suck as bad as my show may seem that I do. I some- times think that Eugene is. con- stantly obsess(;ld with others' cri- tique ofhis work, whether it be his column, his radio show, or his ev• eryday life. If I could cite one problem with my friend Eugene's life, it would be his self-defeatist attitude. If you know Eugene, you know he's not perfect. His articles arim 't always the greatest, and sometimes he skips a few days between show- ers. But, heU, if that's the worst thing the kid does, bless his soul. Eugene needs to give up the per- vasive self-defeatism. I think his articles, his radio show, and his entire life would be vastly im- proved if he would base his life and his work based on what he thinks of it, rather than what I, or anyone else thinks ofit. Eugene deserves mOFe than he gets. Hell, ifyou lived on our floor last year, you would have seen the crap that we put him through. He would wake up with more purple nurpies. than any human being should ever endure. We were vi- cious to the kid. And his room- mate was less than. easy to live with. One particular night I recall, we were playing both sides of the coin, telling his roommate that he shouldn't let Eugene prevent him from bringing a girl home, and then, when Eugene did get 4 'sexiled,'' we told him what a jerk the green room and asked them a few questions. Whatmost amazed me about the band was how quickly the group had come about. Rich and John had crossed paths doing open- mike sets of their solo works. \We met playing here a couple times and then we both ended up on the Ancient Records compilation,\ Rich explained. \One night he called and left a message and I just knew we were going to start a hand.'' John had been playing with the bassist and drummer, brothers his roommate was for kicking him out. Another example of Eugene being a glutton for punishment is his sporadic activity in the Greek system, on again, off again. Why Eugene, why? My diagnosis is not · for Eugene to become a cocky son . ofa bitch, but to improve his atti- tude. Actually, I suppose my diagno- sis for Eugene isn't that differeNt than my philosophy on life. One of the major probl'ems with this college, and especially within the Greek system here, is that either no one believes in themselves, or the:y believe in themselves too much. Much like the rest of the world, healthy self-regulation is the key. We have to look inwards, and regulate ourselves. The ingre- dients for a successful life, I be- lieve, is a healthy dose of self-con- fidence, a dose of self-defeatism, and lots of Jell-0. Well, the Jell- 0 is optional, but I think it makes everything better. Maybe what Eugene needs isJell-0. Self-con- fidence andJell-0. The recipe for success. you heard it here first. You can all thank me later. I hope Eugene doesn't mind me \improv- ing\ his column with Jell-0. Finally, check out Eugene's ra- . dio show with Steve Eichfeld sometime next term. Also, don't give up on reading this column be- cause when Eugene begins to write it again next tenn, it' II be better than this week's edition. by Heath Fradkoff Michael and Anthony Delano, for about a year and a half. Now, eight months after their acquisition of Rich, they have arepertoire of over twenty songs. and a pretty regular gigging schedule. Tryirtgto keep their work afloat, provides a great challenge for The Explosives. They have a tremendous amount of options to we.igh and the future .of the band hangs in the balance. Do they produce their own recor:d- ing and try to sell it by touring and pushing the tapes at their own Jon Tapper's N ot-s,o,-Mild Weekly C~mmentary by Jon Tapper StaffWriter I would like to start off my ar- ticle this week by doing something that I very rarely do, apologize for something stupid that I have done. In rereading last weeks article af- ter publication, I realize that some of my comments were a little bit . harsh and out of line. I would Hke to apologize to ev- eryone that I offended. Next, I would like to restate what the objective of my column is to everyone who reads it. I basically write this column to make people laugh, first and foremost. My sec- ond objective in writing this article is to make people think a little bit more about the less serious things in life. There are a couple of things that you will very rarely get from read- ing my article. One, is a serious news story. I am not a serious jour- nalist and I am very aware of this so don't read this article expect- ing a serious story. You will never see a Jon Tapper article address- ing the homeless problem in Schenectady or anything serious like that. Secondly, I will in the future re- frain from making fun of people on this campus or tile work that they do. Who am I tocriticize their · work? I am not writing th.is article to make enemies (I'm not doing it to make friends either). In hind- sight, I just feel that it is wrong of me to do this. gigs? Do they record and sit on in the hopes of getting in contact with a label willing to produce it for them? Are they writing together as a band or still as individuals? Is the writing progressing? These are all questions they must face while try- ing to juggle the basics of holding down day jobs and finding ample time and space to practice. \[We've been practicing] in my Mom's basement,\ John pointed out. \It's cheap, we don't have a time limit ... it has a couch.\ John asked me, \Difficulty? [ was raised to try to get along with everyone. I can't see the point ()f trying to make enemies for no reason. I feel really bad about my article last week, which is why this week I .might actually try proof- ,reading it. And I certainly did not start writing this article this week to become controversial. I don't have any substantial issues or complaints, so how did I become au issue? N()w that I have that out of the way, on with the fun stuff. I was tll.inking today of how much kin- dergarten is helpful to the whole college experience. In kindergar- ten I learned how to get along with others, I use that here. I learned how to have snack time in the af- ternoon. l use that here. And most importantly, I learned how to have rta,!)1ime. I definitely use that here. Well, that about does it for me tllis week. l promised a lot of people that I would mention them in my column this term. So hello to all the \little people.\ Thank you for your patience, you know wllo you are. I also want to thank ~11 of you who gave me your feed- l:lil.ck on my article last week. I lo<Ok forward to hearing from the re~t ofyou. Y cucan write me at Box# 203 7. I will accept all comments because my column is my opinion and you areall entitled to your opinions. So you keep writing me and I will keep writing for this fille publica- ti()n. . My are we always talking about difficulty?\ I told him that what's easy isn't interesting. You see, Joht1, Rich, Michael, and Anthony don't focus on how hard this is. To tliem it doesn't feel like diffi- culty, it feels like love. They do it j11st llecause. They do it because i1;s in their blood. The drive has been their since John started go- ing to open mike nights. It's been tlleresincethe Delano brothers be- g;ail' Jllaying together at home. 1he drive has only intensified with R.ich coming in and complet- ing tl1e group. Rich made the com- ment that, \ ... we're working to- g;ether because if it were just a ba11dwhere John was writing the s.o11gs it would have so much s.tr~r1gth so we just feel like we 11ugment each other so we take it (() .a11other level.\ A musical project, of any kind, is 11e:ver an easy prospect. Those wllo choose to battle adversity do it because they love it a11d want to sllaretheir love with others. It's all a:bout following that impossible (fream. It's all about chasing that willdmill. Except with fueir talent, :rhe .Explosives just may catch it. (Thanks to Peter Baldes for set- tin~ this up and thanks to Rich, Jo()hll, Anthony, Michael and the proprietors of Lena's for dealing with my irritating flash.) kt me know what you think. .... ·-

.. ,,.,.·.:··.. . ,, '' '' Dark City Starring: Kiefer Sutherland Rufus Sewell Jennifer Connelly Richard 0 'Brien Ian Richardson William Hurt Directed by: Alex Proyas *\'*** * *** ****'* * Somewhere in the galax.y, there is a race of aliens as Ol·d as time itself. These aliens possess the ability to alter reality at wilL Their race is dying, however, forcing them to search the galaxy for a way to prolong their existence. Their search takes them to a $mall blue planet in a comer of the galaxy. It is upon the inhabitants of this p Janet that they begin tlleir experi- ments. A man (Rufus Sewell) awakens to find himself naked in a seedy hotel bathtub, with no hleaofwho he is, how he got there, what is going on, or where he bas been for the last three weeks. In the adjoin- ing room, he disco versa prostitute who has been stabbed to death. The phone rings, and a mysterious voice tells the man that he is in trouble and that there are people coming for him. When the voice on the other end ofthe phonerefusesto identify it- self, the man hangs up the phone and leaves the room, moments he- fore three strange men appear. As he wanders the streets, he discov- ers that 'his name is John Murdoch -a possible serial killer and the hus- band of an estranged night club singer named Emma (Jennifer Connelly). In an attempt to discover what is happening to him, Murdoch be- gins to piece together his past. Meanwhile, he has become the prime murder suspect in a police investigation headed by Detective Bumst~ad (William Hurt). The be- ings known as the Strangers begin their own search for Murdoch once they learn that he possesses their psychic power called Tuning, which allows them to stop time and alter reality. \ALL IN ALL, IT IS A· GOOD MOVIE, ONE THAT IS BETTER TO BE SEEN ON THE BIG SCREEN FOR FULL EFFECT.\ The thought that a human could possess these powers frightens the Strangers, who see Murdoch as a threat to their plans. The leader of the Strangers, Mr. Book (Ian Richardson), places Mr. Hand (Ri'\ chard O'Brien) in charge of cap- turing Murdoch. Dr. Schreber (Kiefer Sutherland), the \Igor\ of the Strangers, also searches for Murdoch, but for reas()ns un- known to his masters. When Murdoch learns ef the true nature ofthe Strangers and the diabolical experiments that are be- ing conducted on the citizens of the city, he initiates a showdown to determine who will control the dark city. Rufus Sewell is cast in the lead role of John Murdoch. This is Sewell's first major role, and he does a decent job of portraying a man who is searching for his past. At times, we find ourselves root- ing for him, although it is often unclear what we are rootmg for . Sewell will star in the role ofMarch Venier in the upcoming movie, Dangetous Beauty. Sewell is joined by Kiefer Sutherland, vet- eran ofsuch great movies as Stand By Me, The Lost Boys, Young Guns, and A Few Good Men. He plays Dr. Schreber, the psychiatrist whose value to the Strangers is his extensive knowledge of the human mind. Look for Sutherland to star with Bridget Fonda in The Breakup to be released later this year. Dark City was directed by Alex Proyas, who directed ·one of 1994's most underrated films, The Crow. Proyasbrings to this film many of the elements that made The Crow a success: dark and Gothic build~ ings, a mysterious yet dreary city and an attention to small details. Dark City seems to be a cross be- tween a who-done-it murder mys- tery and Hellraiser. At times the movie can be con- fusing, especially in the beginning when the audience, like John Murdoch, does not know what is going; on. The special effects are decent and get better towards the end and during the final show- dowll. AU in all, it is a pretty good mevie, and one that is better to be seen ()n the big screen for full ef- fect. Rating: Matinee Price Cellist Chung and Pianist Degang to Perform for Orchestra at Metnorial Chapel on March 7 by Gabriele ))ory Contributing .Writer This Saturday, March 7, 1998, Euna Chung '99 and Feng Degang will perform with the Uni<>n Col- lege Orchestra at 8 PM. Chung, principal pi!Ulist in both her high schoo 1 orchestra and Union's orchestra, has been play- ing the cello since sbe was ten years old. She travels to Rhinebeck each week to continue her studies with renowned cellist Luis Garcia-Renart. During high school, she participated in the Area All-State Orchestra, the Hudson Valley Symphony, and the Saratoga and Tanglewood music camps. She will attend Albany Medical College next year as part of the seven-year medical program at Union College. Degang, a concert pianist, is a Visiting Professor of Music from Nanjing Normal University in Nanjing, China. Hecameto Union Euna Chung '99 practices for the March 7 orchestra performance at the Memorial Chapel in the fall of 1997 as part of the Union College exchange program with China and is a member ofthe Chinese Musicians' Association. He has been on the faculty of Nanjing Normal University for 16 years. He has received many awards for his excellence as a piano teacher, and he has performed widely in China, especially as a vocal accom- panist. In Jiangsu prov~nce he was recently awarded frrst prize for his skill as an accompanist and for his chamber music performances. Degang's compositions are fre- quently broadcast on China Cen- tral, Jiangsu and Panda television. He is published by Shanghai Mu- sic Publishing House and his works have won first prize and sil- ver prizes from the Chinese Musi- cians' Association of Jiangsu Province. The program for the evening consists of two performances from the orchestra: Jean Sibelius' Finlandia, op .. 26 and Felix Mendelsso-hn's Capriccio Brill ant, Op. 2 2. Then Dega.ng will perform Antonin Dvorak's Cello Concerto, op. 104 on the piano. Chung will conc1ude the evening with her solo ·performance of Plot- ter Il'yich, Tchaikovsky's Romeo and Juliet Overture- Fantasy. Orchestra founder and conduc- tor, Professor Hillary Tann, is very excited about the upc<:lming con- cert. \This concert consists of beautiful 19th century music with a full symphony,\ said Tann. She is also very pleased with the devel- oprn<ent of the orchestra since it was founded in 1984. The seventy person orchestra consists of mostly Union students and some community members as well. Tann stresses the strength of many of the performers and is es- pecia1ly confident and excited about Chung's debut solo. \Euna is a strong performer, who has worked very hard to achieve this level of success,\ added Tann. There will be a reception follow- ingthe perfonnance in Hale House and all are invited to attend. Come and watch Union;sOrchestra per- form their exciting program. ... La gran Dep~ Two the d WiUi Will Sha,k nigh1 your dayr S<>ld · Th S.hak intefl laws, begir en tin is off play~ studi ter, p tract: desp they Th terto F Th ingo phy s 2No1 noty feeh< and 1 reno, the 1 Web: on di Th hiSC( be di April \Ima spite prior ing t< in eit Th selec grap throu of the 20,0( On 8:00 Prog Dane atre. cludf Co he Emil; Rach Am a Jakul Mart~ '98, Schn Joaru artd' cert i fesso Mou1 ervat

Two Gentlemen Shine at Yulman Theatre J)y Kimberly.Rohback A&E Editor Last Wed.nesday :tru:trked the grand o.pe.ning .of the Theater Department's prod11ction of \The 'fwoGeatlemenofVerona.\ Under . ·' . the ~irection of v.isiting Professor Williatn Lacey, the cast of nineteen will be performing this classic Shakespeare ,piece for three more nights. If Y'?U have n<>t bought your tickets, do so now, this Fri- day night's performance is almost sold·otit! The plot is a classic Shakespearian comical romance intertwined with lllimes and out- laws,. songs and dance. The story begins in Verona, where young Val- entine, p1aye4:by Li~m Joynt.'99, isofftMhe I)uke ofMilan' s court, played by Ari Gottlieb '99, for his studies_ Silvia, the Duke's daugh- ter, played by Amy Rilliag '98, at- tracts Valentine's affection and despite her father's disapprovai they fall in love. The Duke hopes for his daugh- tertomarry Thurio, played by Deric Hanington '0'1. The other set of lovers, Proteus,. played by James Oereshinsl\y '99 and Julia, played by Amy Beth Gelineau '01, follow them around, causing problems and finding s<>lutions to their own troubled relationship. The plot~ while·winding.and con\ fusillg, .confronts a colorful cast of characters including, Eglamour, played by Michael Winn '00, An- tonio, played by Fiore Leo '00, LQcetta, played by Mau!a Wittbold 'Ol,tneclowrts, Spee_dand Launce played hy John Poor '98 and Alex Beckers '98, Panthino, played by Joshua raub '99, an outlaw, played by Keith Hamilton '98, anQther.out• law, played by Chris Welch '60, Ursula; played by A&E's Lori Gre~ne''OO, the sultry Duke's Mis- tress\ played by the alw(lys capti- vatiag_StaceyElise:Caplin '98, and everyone's favorites .. , the mimes, played by Sandy Rodrigues '00 and: Spellcer Christie 'Ol. These are just the faces :that are on the stage, Be- hind the ·stage a whole crew has ·been working just as hard to help pulltn.is production together. Heading the crew is senior Sara . . Friedman taking on her biggest role yet as the Production Stage Manager~ \This is the biggest project I've done since I've been in the- ater. It'.s been a lot of work but a lot of fun. This is an en e r- geti.c cast and crew,but · ifs also s a d· s inc e this is the I a s t show I'm going to stage rnartage at Union,\ says Friedman of her work on.\Two Gents.'' Other members of the behind the scenes crew include, Assis- tant Director, Melissa Popiel '9&, Assist~nt:Stage Manager, Jessica Chappell '00, Sound Director, Risheet Patel '01, Lighting Direc- tor, Brian Jaecker '98 and Props Director Deb Leif'99. Additional Pedestrian Cafe D~splays Shyam Parkhie Work ty Kimbel'ly Rohback A&E Editor This Sunday marked the open- ing ofShyarn Parkhie's photogra- phy show atthe Pedestrian C&fe at 2 Nott Terrace. For those who have not yet been to the cafe it is a cof~ feehouse serving \coffees teas, and light fare,'' in the beautifully renovated Victorian house across the street from Davidson and Webster. Patkhie's show will be on display until March 20'h. The photos are a selection from his complete body of work that will be displayed in the Art Atrium on April lith. The title ofthe show is \Images of China and India.\ De- spite ()llf beloved layout editor's prior statement the show has noth- ing to do with ''sociaJ conditions\ in either of these countries. Thephotos on display are pieces selected form Parkhie 's photo- graph[<: study while traveling througll China and India \With half of the world's population and over 20,00() years of history between Winter Dance Concert them, the countries of China and India offer endless wonder to the western observer. I don't profess to making any definitive statement abou.t these two countries thFough my work. To do so would be to grossly underestimate their com- plexity and scale. My intent is to convey some ofthe beauty and vi- brancy that I was witness to duTing my travels, '' says Park.hie of his work. SlTm-e of the photos on display include \National Day-Nanjing, China.l997,\ Thisphotoc~ptures the youthful spirit of a small group of Chinese children dancing in the street All of the photos are printed in black and white, yetthe colorful nature of the people Parkhie cap- tures warms the heart and capti- vates the mind. Pa:rkhie • s photo entitled \Market Day-Xingping, China\ is a slanted shot from behind of various people carrying sacks on their way through the stree~s of a Chinese market. Perhaps the most endearing aspect of Parkhie's work is the fact that they are all stunning and glamor- ous photos of everyday people doing ordinary things in countries halfway around the world. \Pro-Government Rally- Nagpor, India\ captures a crowded. street, filled with vibrant signs printed in Hindi. All of Parkhie's photos provide Ameri- ' can observers a glimpse into for- eign cultures few ever encounter. \I am really exciteq about this show,\ says Parkhie. \I wanted to have it at the Pedestrian Cafe because of the informal atmo- sphere. I also really support the idea of a cafe right here next to campus. I think it's great that a Union alumnus came back to help contribute t~ the bettering of the campus and the town.\ The show is hanging in a beau- tiful room with a ~osaic fire place, with windows overlooking the porch of the cafe. The show itself is a work of art. Stop by and sup- port Union College artists and graduates. Admission is free. Prints of the works on display and other images from Parkhie's study are available for sale. If you are interested or have questions please contactParkhie at 388·5818. thanks go out to the production crew: Christine Schrader '99, Mark McKee'Ol, NadyaMoxey '01, Eric Wisotzky '00, Robert Senska '99, Cequyne Moore'OO; and Paul Cicerchia '01. Director William . Lacey said, \This is the same experience as the Olympics. It's time to put the work be- hind us and let the piece live its own life. We will begin new dis- coveries with the audience. All theater begins with the audience. The cast and crew are very excited about the production.\ The show was clearly the result of a lot.afhard work on a very dif- ficult piece of text. The acting was very impressive, specifically the performances given by Taub, Joynt, and Rilling. Perlups one of the most surprising and entertain- ihgaspectsofthe performance was the brilliant work of the mimes. These colorful actors were a de- lightto watch and defmi1ely added to the color and move~nent of the piece. A thumbs up gees to A.&E' s Lori Greene whose cameo performance was a definite high! ight of the evening! The show is being pro- duced as a workshop p ieee, se it will include basic costllming and stage design. Emphasis was placed on the act- ing and the text over tlie props and the costumes. Everyone is strongly encouraged to go and en- rich their minds and support the- ater at Union! It is not only a wonderful night of Shakespeare for $5, but a chance to support student act()rs for the long hours of rehearsal that goes into such a complex piece. Tickets are on sale now, $5 for student ad- mission and $7 for general admis- sion. For more information visit any orie of the theater's h<>x offices. Coffeehouse Plays Yulman by Kimberly Rohbacl!: A&E Editor Last Friday, the Coffeehouse re- located to the lobby oft he Yulman Theater to provide refreshments for the Mountebank's Late Night Cabaret After the Friday night perfo1111ances of Department pro- ductions the Coffeehouse and Mountebanks have been putting on c8:barets. The Cabarets are open to every- one although people are encour-. aged to attend this Friday night's perfonnance of\Two Gentlemen of Verona\ beforehand as well. The cabaret itself will begin at I 0:30PM ··this Friday. The Coffeehouse pro- vides the audience with free hot chocolate, coffee, and cappuccino. The cabaret was .hosted by the . mimes from \Two Gentlemen,\ Mike Winn, Spencer Christie, and Sandy Rodrigues. For the first time · that evening the audience heard the trio speak. They provided a very comical stand up routine be- tween acts. The mimes did short sketches playing on the show. Last week's cabaret included colorful performances by Garnet Minstrelles, Maura Wittbold, Amy Rilling, and Sandy R ()drigues, monologues by John P()or, Amy Beth Gelineau, Staple-head Beckers, Deric Harrin,gton, and Emily Schwartz. Eric Witzotsky performed a song called \I Want to Be A Cowboy\ for the late night audience. Please come tomorrow night and support the arts at Union. Bring us your talent, brin~ us your money, or bring us your J>resence. We want it all! Even if you have already seen \Two Gentlemen\ come back for a second viewing or you are more than welcome to come only to see the cabaret! Although most of the perform- ers for last week's cabaret were ac~ tors from the Shakespectre piece, the campus community is reminded that the cabaret is in ten <led to be a forum for any perfomter who wishes to sharetheirtalent. If any- one is interested in performing in tomorrow night's cabaret please contactme (I'm Kim) at xj813. On Tuesday, March I 0,1998, at 8:00PM the. Union College Dance Program will present a \Winter DanceConcert\ in the Yulman The- atre. The students perfonning in- clude: Hannah Blum '98; Joanna Cohen'OO, Cassandra Dawes '99, Emily Desantis '00, Ari Gottlieb '99, Rachel Grahal11 '98, Jill Grant '99, Amanda Jackson ·oo, Jennifer Jakubowski '00, Amy Kilmer '00, Martha Krohohn '01, Sari Lei vent '98, Carrie Madson '99, Sunil Schneider '99, Jean Soutar '00, Joann2 Tai '00, Monet Warren '00, and Va~erie Wright '00. The con- cert is under the dit·ection of Pro- fessor5 William Finlay and Miryam Moutillet. Tickets are $5. Make res- ervati<lns by calling 388-6545. Warming ap for the Winter Dance Concert: Nine female dancers from the Winter dance conr:ert prepare for their routine.

.. ·-·-·-·-·--···- ..... ._ ....... ~-··-----·-· ................ ------··-·-·····-----· ...................... _, ___________ --------~--- ·-··-··-· ··~ .................... . UNION IAUNDit\' 5'1 Noll Street S<b~neetady, NY 12308 71 Cents A Wash With Our Token S y~1~1n Free Drying Tuesdays & Thursdays 8ant · 3i>lll <-NEW TRIPLE LOAD WASIIER ~ •• ' TOP RATINGS FROM MORNINGSTAR, MOODY'S, S&P, DALBAR, AND BILL. \\{\\{ Te take a. lot ofpl'ide in gaining high VVmarks from the major rating services. But the fact is, we're cqlllally ptoud of the ratings we get every day from our partic- ipmHs. Because at TIAA-CREI•: ensuring the flt1ancial futures of the educa.rion and ;esearch community is scnnething tha1 goes beyond stars and numbe-rs. \Ve became the woa:ld's largest retire- ment organization' by ollering people a wide range of sound invest1nents, a commitment Ensurin~ _the future for tho~ who shape it.~\ to superior service, and operating expenses that are among the lowest in the in(o;uraoce and mutual fuml industries.\'~\;'* . With TIAA-CREI•: you'll get the right choices- and the dedication-- .. to help you achieve a llfetime ol' financial goals. The t'ating services back tAS up. So does l:lill. Find t.)ttl how TJ t\1\-CI-U:F can help you build i1 comfortable, linancialtv secure tomor- row. Visit Otlr \Veb site at '\v·ww.tiaa-eref.org or call us M l SOO 8-42-2776. ·~uur,e· Ml'>nllll~~tar, IlK., nc~cmhl'lr 31. 1997.-Miltnin~~mr is ;m im.l<'f'O:Od~ill ><::n·k~ rim J';JI<'o lll\11 lh\1 Jund> ,\J\d ··.uiablc illllllllti<.:S. The L<ij> \I)~)',( lund' - in an mwstmem'c-.trc~llr)' r~··ciw -tivt• ~t.ns an~ rh~ neAl· 22.5~;, re<\d\'~ lour mr~ .• :1<>min)\>l~tr l'~'~'l'm;L>r: r.Hinp,> tdk·ct lmtoti<\11 risk-,ulimr(d,_p.:rtiw m;uKt, .md ~llc subject r<l dtang~ t'<W~ mo11tfl. l11ey art' cJkulat<:.l tn>m-rh~ acn>unt 'tine~ ... hw·. anJ ;~n·yc~r .w~I~!(~ oi11JlLioll r<'tttfll' 111 e\<:<'\ 111 90 ,l,n Tr.-.1~111'1' btl! t\'flln1> \lith <lppropnalc fee a<\jll~I111CIIt$, al\J ·1 risk f<Kl()f !hJt rtlkn• p~l'fimualli.:C l•d<.IW IJO·lh\' 1-htll li'(lll'll\ The P\1'1.111 ;tlr 1',\111\~~ rd~m.t.'tn abnw .u-r ;\-lHntnlf\Sta,-\ pllle1i~hnl r;tting,,, which .ore 11·d¢11cd .wcra;wl>·nf if'i rhrc~ , llw:·, .1~1.! t<'\ ···~~-'' win:~· t• •r pai\ l'!ldirt):\ D~~nt1b...-r 31. 1997. Thr ~~p.mrc { unpuhhshed) r;\1111~~ lor each of the ptrioch .trc: r--·- , ~--- ... ------ · -·-· ...... ~-----· .. --·-···---··-··· .. ·-· - _........_, \'\\\ _, ............ ~--- ... -·----- .. ·-·- .. -·----................. · w-- .. .. ................ ,_ ... _ ....... - ............. - ••• • • • •• .................. ----------~·--·-·--\\\·-·~·--·-··· • 1 I Pcrl<n1 CRill' St!>tk C'BB'F Global CR.EF E11ulty CR.EF· GrllMh CllEF Rond CR.EF Social A~~ount ·Boo[!dtics A~.:.~ullt ~~!J!;x Aeecmnt A~¢.,imt Mn,l<,!l~ .J\.~\!!9-t:t.t ~ll.,ke A.~uJIJUi· ~~~r !{Jtiltg/l\umh:r Sr~1r R;~tirlg/Nurnhcr Stur Ratingj;-i:umhcr ~r.1r Ratint?/l~untbc·t· \t,i!'ll..1ting/Numhcr ~~·ar R •• tillg/1\umf.l'r i t•t' i)(>ntNk Equuy nf!JnrrJII.Itiotwlliqllity nf llomc~ti.: E,j<litr nl llnnh'''\ l·;q 11iw of h.,~d ltwmm ot Dnmt:lliC 1-:quirt 1 :\<'count~ R.1t~<l AtLnllnt' Rated 1\~.:nunts l\.trcJ A<-cr>unn It<Jtnl /\«·mmr' [(.tr.:d .'\:(cotllll\ R:ncd 1 .Hw -1/1,820 1j37'J 5/1,820 S/1,820 4/o7:' 4/1,!>20 i 5 Yt.,tr 4/1,19'1 5/2ll5 ~/A N/A •L'-H.1 . •lfi.!W 10 YcJr 5/604 N/A ~/A ::.f/A t\;':\ t-:;A 1.._ ______ . -- .... --- - .•.. ···----------·-···-- - -----··--·-·---------... .. ............ - ..................... -- -- -- ••• -·· ........... . ''The\· top r.u:it1gs arc b.m·d Utl Tlit\.-\':1 cxceptionJI tin:utc.Jal 'tr<~lgth,-d~im•·p.11'111J; abiht~· Jlld U~<T,lil up,·r:ltin,~ Jll'fli:rm.llt<l'. Th.:sc ~.ilillt',' do 1101 applv !<> CREI' c)f th~ TIA,\ R.::~l f!~un· t\Gc<>unt ..... S•.Il.ll\'C: L>AI.l~AR, Inc, l'N7. 1 lla~<'d t\' ,lS,<r., undc•r ITJ,II1·l!I>\'111C11L , .. *.\idlldoml (_,- I'm•>·~,- {j,-.,,·,uw· J(atlllq A>lilh~ir. 1\>97; Lij)pt; At~al)'tic.tl S<•n-iccs, Inc .• LJj•Jir:r- /Jwmm·:< A·tla./.t•tw•l Ilnttr, -1'19 7 rQII•trt~t·l' 1. l'llf'.l· o.wtilir.ilt:' lthl iatt:rcots in th~ TlAA R.c.1l .Jl.'lOt.ll< :\.:c<•UJH .trc distribmcd h\' Tli\A-CRhl· IIJ(h1·idn.1! .uHI fn>tilution.d .'\ctTace'. Foar na.•rc rmnpic11· infimna ti<>ll. including dt•11'1~~s ,md c~peiiiO:S, call l ~00 ~42-2?33, t;xtcn•inn 5!i0lJ. fi>r thr CREf' .1nd I'IA•\ lkd !-.<tate .'\\l'll~Wt l'fl\(\\ctmr~ Rt·.u.l thclll <.m:lidly bd(>re vou inl'c~t t>r,.rnd'nl!uuy 2/'!it COME INTO MOTO PHOTO FOR -SUPER SAVINGS! - 1 041 ·State Street - 382~5776 ; .

\Must present valid college 10 at ticket wifldw¥. . \. ·. : Oiler not valid with any other discourus, . . . • ·. · · •, , .. , .. (tQ~~~ttly• f~t~Wah Restaurant} 374-6823 1481 ua State Street Schenectady (Next 10 Family 1 Dollar) ....... --ll!lt8 ----, I 1/2 PRICE DIN~NER J When you purchaSe t IMMt. f&C»ive 2nd of equal or IQ$1181' V4lfue at 112 .~ I One Coupon Pes CUstomer. ~ns ca11not be combined Willt oilier oft&rs.. ExpiM 313ti9S I ~ L- ..... - _,_._ ._. .... _.. _ __.-- ...,._ ... ~ ........ ~--- .... .,..ftlll);- ..... ..1 ....., ______ , 1/2 PRICE DINNER I I I When you pun::hase t bttftet. ~ive 2nd of equal o;: !Mser wtue at 112 price I I One Coupon Per CUstomtr. Coupons cartnot be combined witlt other offers. Expires 31311!18 I ~---~----~~~~~~-~--~~~~-~--~~ ~ ........ .-.- ....... ~ ---------- ~~----- - .... --- ....... , : ~ s5· 00 0FF g: ,IE / Ul l o . · PI : u Take-out order of $35 or more ~ : L.. ~-- -------- ~c>!_es .!~'!!- ---------- ..J r---------------------------, H $3° 0 0FF ~~ 1 1 u Take-out order ot. ~ 25 or more 0 N 1 1 · T Exptms :fi31t9f L~~~~--~~~-~~-~--~--~~~-~-~-~ Ski and Ride Stratton Monday through Friday (non-holiday) for 50% · * with your .· off valid college ID. Plus, get $5 off~ weekends and holidays .. For ~pesial_dist:o~ll}ts ':'isit Stratton s HOT l)EALS page on our \vebsite . ..,,..n·•••••--......,_ -~-·\\\\·~ ........... _,,~_..\\\\\'\\'~~·~~·-•--•-••·•~\\''''...._.\--........?-4'<0

Tvvo Wins Too Late - - - . -· . Dutchmen Shut Colgate and Cornell Out, But Are Out of Playof!s By Jon_athan G~sthalter Etlitor-in-Cirief three g<J~ls in the second period that we tried a lot of things this ofthe weekend, defeated Cornell as Aiex Todd~ Sheldon year we may try to find some 1-0 to sweep tb.e seas~m series. and Pietzykowski\' . .and Jason Ralph ·identity in thosethings that we feel win their sixth BCAC game. Many young hockey teams find tallied,to inc::re:ase Union's lead to we are good at, yet if we have to . . Koenig felt that the team was that weekend after weekend 4-0. 'Senior goaltender Trevor revisitthose,thingsnextyear, there relieved ·of some 'tension on another piece of the puzzle {ails KoenigVilasn~ksolid; kicking out is a lot ef experience in trying Saturday night after learning ~hat into place. One weekend it could numero!bs sl:io1s as the r;>utchmen things. Hopefu:Uy next year there it wou.ld not make the playoffs. be a stronger forecheck, the continued te out.skate the Red . willhemoreofap.openmindand ·\Once we f(luttd out that the following weekend better stand-up _ . playoffs were over; I think guys play in front ofthe goaltender. The pla-yed a little bit more relaxed. It youthful Skating Dutchmen · seemed like the guys were a lot experienced this Weekend a COming lh()re COilll'nttted to go down in front together of all of the pieces to the ofthe shots. I saw the shots a lot puzzle and were able to come home cle(lrer, guys cleared out rebounds for the final games of the season and held up sticks so they·did not · with two ~olid shut-out victories getsecond and third opportunities. under their belt. Unfortunately, the It was a.speciaf w~ekend,\ he said .. puzzle came together a bit too late . The win marked Union 1 s first in the season and Union will miss weekend road sweep since 1994. the playoffs, as Vermont and St. Koenig achieved the second back- Lawrence tied and won their to-hack shut-out game of his respective games . this . past career, tbe first come last season weekend. as he· heat both Verhtont ·and The 4 _ 21 _ 3 , 2 _ 14 :. 2 in the ECAC Tr.£porS.~enigstopped.72shots in blanking Colgate and Cornell. Dartmouth en route to· an ECAC Dutchmen,amustwingarneonthe Raider:~. C<:l'lgate's frustration players won't he so timid about record 198:44 shut-out streak. ticket in order to have a chance to became appar-ent after the Ralph trying something new. They have K()enig kicked out 72 shots over make the' playoffs, opened their goal, wllich vvas scored on Colgate done a wonderful job.'' the weekend and now has three Friday night match-up against the back-up.J _goaJtender Shep Hl:lrdet. The Dutchmen, traveled to shut-outs this season and nine in Colgate Red Raiders, a team that Harder, moments later after gloving Cornell on Saturday night, once his four year ECAC career. had beaten them 3-0. The ashotcbargt:!d o-uttoanoncoming again hoping to play the·role of TheDutchmenreturnhornethis Dutchmen looked to play an CharlieMoxJJam,catchinghimup '·spoiler. TheBigRed,whohadlost weekend to face off against aggressive game against a Red high.withhisstick, earning him a to RPI4-2 the previous evening nationally ranked and first in the Raider team that was 1-4-1 in their penalty. needed a w'in to clinch a home E£AC Yale and Princeton. This last six games and only needed one Uniom increased its lead to 6-0 playoff spot However~ Koenig weekend marks the final games for point to secure a playoffberth. when ])ave Smith and Ryan andtheDutchmenwouldcomeup seniors Moxham and Koenig. Union came out with a strong Campbell sc()red inthe third period, big once again. Cornell~ playing Koenig leaves Union with a lot of fotecheck, taking the body well in as Koe11ig kic.ked out thirty-nine without senior goaltender Jason memories and hopes that fans will both zones of play. The Dutchmen shots to J.ead tile Dutchmen to a 6... ··Elliott, looked shaky to ·begin the <JOme out for the final two match- would strike first on Colgate Ovictory·ovetColgateand.Union's , game, as Union got a number of UJ>S oftlie season,. despite the fact goaltender Dan Brenzavich at 6:S8 first victory agains* the Red, early scoring chances on backup 11ut Union will not participate in of the stanza. Sophomore ,Matt \' Raiders at C(.)l~ate in their Division goaltender Ian Burt. Freshman Jay post-season play. \I want to thank · Kunziar made a beautiful move I history. UnJortunately for the Narady netted his first goal of the the fans for al'ltheir suppon in this streaking-up the right ·side- of the • · Dutchme:n, St. Lawrence defeated, ··~~asonat 14:03 of the first period,.'·· trying 's'eason arid hope·to see a hoards around a Colgate defender ·Harvard in ·()'Vertime and Vermont ·p~tting Union on top to stay l-0. · packed house here this being our and threw the puck into the slot,;• tied'Pri11cetoD~ eliminating Union. :.The Dutclu:tien defense played fmal weeken'd. I have a lot of where ;Joel Bond tapped .it home . from playoff C()ntention. strong in frontofKoenig, blocking weekends of fine memories at ,j j i for his first career goal, giving Coach Stan Moore felt that ·· numerous· Cornell shots in front Achilles Rink and hopefully this Union a 1-0 lead. l:Jnion fuad-lea:med a lot from the of :the net; In the end, Union . weekend will provide one more The Dutchmen went on to score -season. \We want to be-able to say· behind Ko~:Q.!8:s~e~otid_ :~u~9Jit. . example,\ he said. \ . . Records· At en 't Everything By Frank Rossi StaffWriter Eleven and fourteen. Six, twenty- one, and three. Eight ~nd sixteen Yes, these are the records for the men's basketball, men's ice hockey, and women's basketball teams, re- spectively. Antagonists and local sports radio show hosts are often quick to state how these records prove that Union sports are washed up and not worth attend'- ing, but if these people took a mo- ment to investigate the winter sports' seasons, they would real- ize that their ignorance is not bliss. Let's start with two teams who had good records to match their excellent seasons. The men's and women's swimming and diving teams pulled together another great winter term, as the women matched their third-.place finish in the state meet two weeks ago and the men won their state meet for the fourth straight year. For the men, the graduation of superstars Kevin Makarowski and Mike Humphreys Ie(j some to believe that the men's swim team would have a tougher go at it this year. Guess again. With victory in five relays and several individual peak performances, the team beat the home-standing Hamilton Conti- nentals for th.eir victory. Brian Field'swinsin the one- and three~ meter sp.-ing.boCJ.td events for his fourth year .ilelped solidify Union's feat. While the women's record was nottheir best in the last few years (at 5-.t)., senior Megan McCartlty -will be returning to na- tionals fo llo~i11gthewomen's ex- cellent statepeTformapce. Sopho- more Heathe.-Weisenfluh also so- lidifies fuer presence in diving with her thirc:l-place finish for the sec- ond straight year. For Union to continuolislyJlerform well at a state and natio11alle-vel is a credit to the coaching staffs and especially to the swimmers and divers who, even th.:>ugh they do not receive the press ·c<>verage they deserve (and I t~ke ,!'art .of the blame for that), they perform like champions week after week. You maynot real- ize it all of the time, but this pro- gram is a. crown: jewel for Union athletics. Next, tfue l>asketball teams both set league bests this season even though their uverall and 'league records r.eflec:t more losses than wins. The W{)lllen' steam, made up of strictly freshmen and sopho- mores, w.on a personal-best four UCAA -vict<>ries_ With freshmen Erin McNamara and Kathleen Fur- long sho()ltingwell all season long from outside, and with sophomore Leah Oliveiri's strength down low, a great foundation has been laid for this team. The team paralleled last year's young RPI team, which came back to post an over twenty- win season this year. Oliveiri's se- lection to the UCAA frrstteamand Furlong's selection to the second team further prove that the season was a bright spot, not a major dis- appointment, for the athletics pro- gram. The men's team posted its bestrecord since the 1994-1995 sea- son, and will finish no worse than a third-place tie in the UCAA. Their five league victories also repre- sented a personal· best, and the men also have formed a solid foun- dation with the loss of only one senior to graduation (Rob TeCarr). The best ·evidence for the team's strong play this season is in their five mentions in the UCAA aU-star team selection. Congratulations goes to junior Rob Groelz for mak- ing the UCAA First Team, senor captain TeCarr for making the UCAA Second Team, and to sopho- more Zena Woldeyesus forrece.iv• ing honorable mention. The future· continues to look bright denoted by the selection of freshman cen• ter John Van Woniletas co-Rookie ofthe Year and with second year head coach Robert Montant and. :first year asistartt Dean Edwards chosen as co-Coaching Staff of the Year. When 1 started broadcasting tlleir games two seasons ago, _people laughed at me for even both- ering. After the excitement and <irama we were ableto bring to life on the air during both teams' sea- sons, I simply ask who's laughing IJOW? Men's and women's indoor track also provided some bright spots to- the winter season. While meet scores would show a big disap- pointment for the Dutchmen, we <'lften forget that we do not field athletes in every event. There have l:leen several great individual per- formances all season, including freshman Dennis Sanabia's third- place finish at the state meet in the 45-meter dash, senior captain Jay Goldberg's several personal bests (making this his best indoor track season in his four years), and sophomore Jordanna Mallach do- ing a consistent job in the pole '\lalllt all season long. Last but· not least is men's ice Jlockey. This team was tough to figure out at the start of this sea- son as they tied their best ECAC start ever at 2-2-1 following a vic- t()ry on December 5 1 h against C<lrnell. Until this past weekend, ... continued on page 21 d b ti s 81 p \' tl li fr I 01 gl \ E T Ul tb el It th at se fa th de so sa cc d~ ht: th a '\I Fi. WI C(J II ar1 th no thi W< WI I ' Sa \T thl thl pa ME COl Be to. iot l tht: vie SOl \ du; ate an' me sa) ers we cie opJ Me j Ba dw

:'] .... s_oo __ -_- __ rt _______ s_-._- ___ · · ·---- · ·-· ·-:::(:.· --, -~--~~T~~:-~ ,_·_>\ :·rMf·.-·r.-- ,\~· · ·. _. _, __ -. · :-~~~~~:-···~ .. ~·;1'\-'•~~m=~s;;:i:!3·i~arctr·!J:W98\<•·•pa·g~~.t·'fr -~ ~ , ·-,. •• 1 - -~; . ~---.. t, ' -. , , · . . J'f .. _ . ==- .. · . . r · ~ .. Track and Field Athletes Flirt With Triumph At States Sanabia and Knapp lone scorers for men while Mallach sole scorer for women by Jason Everett Sports Writer The Union men's and women's track and field team concluded its indoor season this past Friday and · Saturday With the 1998 New York State Division III Championships here in Union's field house. SUNY Binghamton won the men's com- petition with 125 points. followed by Fredonia with 106.5. · The Union men finishedtied for eleventh place with ten points, beating Alfred and SUNY Buffalo with eight and six points respec- tively. This is an improvement over last year's .. twelfth place finish, but still far behind the team's sixth place finish two years ago. Ithaca won the women's compe- tition with 126 points foUowedhy St. Lawrence University ~ith 109. The Union women fmished:in four- teenth place with one point, iden- tical to their score last year. According to head coach Larry Cottrell, \the meet ran very smoothly,\ and with the large tum- out -of students and family m~m­ bers i1i attendance, in addition to the raucous soundofthe competi- tors, the field house had a festive atmosphere for the duration of the meet. Leading the men's team was the standout runner for the Dutchmen all season long, freshman Dennis Sanabia. Sanab-ia competed in the 45m dash, the 200m and ran third leg on the l600m-relay team. In the 45m trials, Sanabia tied for first in his section clocking a 5. 71 split. Jn the finals, Sanabia finished third behind Krishaun Gilmore of RPI (5.54) andKyleJackson ofSUNY Binghamton (5 .55) with a 5.71 split again. Sanabia did not make the finals in the 200m but ran tena- ciously in the trials losing out to a tough field. The other scorer for the men was visiting student from abroad, Marq tin Knapp. Despite having to con- tend with the tight turns in· the field house, which made passing virtu- · ally impossible in the shorter dis- · tances, Knapp ran aggressively passing his competitors on the -turns to take fourth overall in the 500mdashfmals inatirneof68.38. This is an incredibly impressive time considering that this race was held on a 160m track and not the standard 200m~ Although the men only had two scorers, they had a few athletes come upjust short of placing. Jun- ior Peter Flynn ran a seasonal best 9:07.03 irlthe 300()m; taking second in the unseeded section and eighth O\:'erall, just four seconds out of. fourth. Flynn also madeth.e fmals in the SO Om after running an easy 2:03 in the trialstakingsecond place in his section. Flynn appeared to be somewhat fatigued in the 800m fi- nals on Saturday, which were held after his 3 OOOm race earlier that day, and was unable to score. Flynn later came back and anchored the 3200m relay. Senior captainJay Gold'beFghad a fine meet despite n()t scoring in his specialty event, the 1500m. Goldberg ran aggressively in the 1500m trials taking tile lead from the outset to avoid being boxed in and to ensure qualifying for the fi- nals. Goldberg ran a 4:12 in the trials, and came back later Friday evening clocking a 3:20split on the 1200m leg ofthe distance medley. Goldberg finished 7th in the 1500m finals in 4: 13 and ran a 2;05 3 rd.Jeg on the3Z00mrelay. The distance medley team of Goldberg, Flynn, Jon Nieman, and Kenny Scott came up short as well in the scoring. The DMR finished 7th in 11:09, behind 5th place Fredonia in ll:07.02and 6th place Geneseo in 11:07.07. Senior Mike Martin place.d\ eighth in the triple jump traveling a distance of 12.67m despite havin,g to contend with a break in the co III- . petition to accommodate the20()rm heats. The men's results are as folloVIs: 45m3. Dennis Sanabia 5.71, (5.71 trials); 500m 4. Martin Knapjp 68.38; 800m 8. Peter Flynn 2:26-616 (2:00 trials); l500m 7. Ja:y Goldberg 4: 13.70{4: 12.75); 1600111 • relay Chris Strohsal, Kenny Scolit, Sanabia, Kna,pp 3:39; 3000m :2. . Flynn 9:07.03; 3200m relay li•l. · Chris Guertin 2:09, Jon NiemaJl 2:11, Jay Goldberg 2:05, Peter FlYJUI 2:15 ~ 8:42.02; DMR Goldberg (1200)3:20,Scott(400) :55, Niemil11 (800) 2:16; Flynn (1600) 4:36- 11 :09.52; Triple Jump 9. Milte Martin 12.67m; Shot Put 15. Be:n Blackwood 13.03; 18. :Jermel R()yal 12.78, 20. Peter Mody 12.24. The lone scorer for the wome:n in the state meet was sophom ctre J or:danna Mallach in the p~le vault. Despite this being her ftrtSt · season of indoor competition a11<1 second season oftrack at Unio11,. Mallach had an a notable seas(l)ll, in which she continuously in- proved as the season progressed. Mallach finished sixth in tll.e · \drawn out'' pole vault competi- tion, clearing a height of 6.6 fee:t. Mallach commented that she Vias \ ... frustrated w'ith delays [duri11g; the competition] but l am happy that I was able to contribute de- spite it being only one point.\ Just falling short of scoring vt:as junior co-captain Jessica Govei.a. Goveia ran an outstanding racei11 the lOOOm on Friday, runnin15 !l Jason EverettlTC time Of 3: 11.54 despite feeli11g Jordanna Ma/lach clears bar in the slightly under the weather. This pole vault was a seasonal best for Goveia !Jy more than tour seconds and a peu., sonal best over last ind<lor season's sixth place 3: 12.7(} in states. In the finals this past Saturday, Goveia seemed poised to medal for the third straight year, and possi- bly break the school record of 3:09.37. This however would not be. Due to an officiating blunder, the I OOOm fmalists ran an extra lap around the Unicnfieldhouse for a distance of 1160 meters. Goveia finished seventh in a time of 3:50.40, behmdthe fifth and sixth place finishers in3:46.40and3:48.67 respectively. After a lengthy \executive board meeting\ ofmeet officials, the de- cision was made to use the results of where the athletes were after running the extra lap instead of at- tempting to determine place fin- ishes from sketchy eyewitness ac- counts of where the athletes were when the race should have been over. Goveia was .slightly irritated by the officiating mishap and com- mented that the outcome of the race would have been much differ- ent had things had not gone astray. Also running well but not mak- ing the finals in her event was freshman Amy Slabich. Slabich ran a 2:31.0 in tile 800m trials, falling three seconds short of making the finals. The women's DMR team of Slabich, Goveia, Autumn Renn and co-captain K.atie MacDowell fin- ished eighth of eleven schools in a time of 13:50.3 7. This was ten sec- onds faster than this squad's time at last weekends Hamilton Open meet. The women ,s results are as fol- lows: 800m Amy Slabich 2:31.0; lOOOm (+160m long due to offici- ating blunder) 7. Jessica Goveia 3:50.40 (3:11.54trials); Long Jump Autumn Renn; Pole Vault 6. Jordanna Mallach 1.97m; DMR 8. Slabich (1200), Renn (400), Goveia (800), MacDowell(1600)-13:50.37 DaveMeguerdich.anffC Dennis Sanabia sprinting towal'ds the ji11ish with rival Gilmore of RPI Dave Meguer<lichianffC Jessica Goveialooks ahead in the 1 OOOm trials MeguerdichianffC M~rtin KnapJI r~mring the turn in tlte 500mfinals ... continuedfrom page 20 however, they did riot win again in the league. Criticism has been sharp and broad against this you11g team, even prompting cer- tain people to state that the hockey team \blows\ this season. To · those people I ask the following: when a team h.as ten freshmen in the lineup and lately cannot field a full eighteen skaters, how can you just look at their record and draw that conclusion? This weekend, with nothing to play for but respect and fun, the Union College Skat- ing Dutchmen were heroic. They found their.transition game (which has eluded them aU seasC)n), and they proved te everyone that they can play a full sixty minutes of hockey. To others, it was just an- other example of Dutchmen incon- sistency. To me~ it was lteroic. Union's two seniors also have ridden the pendulum throughout the season, but they are e11ding on the upswing. Charlie Moxham has stepped up his game play to an extremely high level, scoring nine goals and fifteell points (compared to nine goals and 24 points for his first three seasons). His improved defense and intellsity ()n the boards has made a lot of coaches and players scratch their heads~ and his speed ltis been crucial to the Dutchmen. He has filled well his duty as captain all season long. Ifl were to go into Trevor Koenig's contributions throughout his ca- reer~ you would be reading for weeks. 'Statistically, Koenig has so far posted the league's sixth best goals against average (2.85) and third best save percentage (92 per- cent), even though he has four wins and ten lo.sses. This weekend's double shutout and his 55-save performance against Clarkson is more than sufficient evidence that last year's success was not a fluke and was not solely due to a great defensive front. Koenig has done a lot for this pro-: gram, placing it on the Divisiom I map over the past four years, a.nd the pro team that ends up with il irn will be in excellent hands. If our standards are so high tllat if we do not go to the playoffs ev- ery season, we \suck then I guess most of Union's athletics teams suck. Is this fair? Abso- lutely not. There ARE such things as moral victories, and we offten learn more through losing tb11n through winning. Someb()dy asked me prior to the Cornell ga:me Saturday why I would want to <!rive a long way just to watch a hodkey game of a playoff-eliminated team. The hockey team answered the question for me, playing one of the best road games l have ever seen. The overall wins and losses this season by the various winter teams add up to a lower number of wins than last season. However, as a fan of Union sports and a senior, this winter season has provided me with the most excitement, the most drama, and tile most satisfaction ofmyfourwmters here at Union. I thank the coaches and athletes for that, and I remind all of you that you can team a lot by looking be- yond the win-loss records we seem so fond ofridiculing on a weekly basis. Attend the.it respective events bef()re you cast judgment!

• Please submit your • narratives to Trish Williams in the Dean of Students Office by March 11th. Presented by Peer Fa·cilitators, MAG, & the Student Forum Club Med & Cruise - Ships Now Hiringl Call For Free Details at 1-800-435-4247 u •.• man)' busi1tesses don·'t take respon,sibility for their worl~ in toda:y/'s world ... I'm hctppy to report that ·Capitol Mechanics is one tlotable exception .. ~ their prices are .fa~ir and their , service is excellent!\ I -John Sabol CAPITOL MECHANICS European Service for Eu:ropean Cars Call (518)·235·1708

i I I I ! i. I mllltng Field Wins Diving Competition for Fourth Straight Season byAnn~tte·Gr-~jny Staff Writer Last weekend, the Men's. swimming and diving team won their fourth consf;cutive state championship, held at Ham:Uton Col- lege. ln the process of winning, eight of Union's swimmers and divers qualified for the national meet. Brian Field was selected as \Diver of the Meet'' while Mike Darbyshire was named as \Swimmer of the Meet\. In addition, Union's head coach.of both the men's and women's teams, Judy Wolfe, was selected as ''Coach of the Year\. Union'.s dominance was reflected in most of the eVents, especial1y in aU ofthe ·relays. . In the 20.0 free relay, Hili Flfck,: Pete Humphreys, Clark Srnyth, and Jeff Hoerle won frrst place with a time ofJ :25.20~ Union took first place ~gain in the 400 medley relay, when MikeDarbyshire, Mark Anderson,. Dave Searles, .and Hoerle fin-' jshedwith a time of3:27.38~ The sametesult prevailed in the 200 me~ley relay, when Darbyshire, Anderson, Searles, and Smyth took first place with th:eirtimeofl :34.82. In tile 800 free Fe lay, Darbysh,ire, Smyth, Searles, and Hoerle finished with a time of 6:57.67, another first place for Union. The same team alsotookthe400 free relay, fin- ishing with atjme of3':06.3l. In the individual events, Union stood apart from the oompetition as well In the 50 free, Union's Darbyshire finishedfrrst with a time of21.22. Right behind him was Hoerle, who fmished second in 21.32~ In that same event, Flick came in fourth, with a time of 2 I .60. In the lOOfree, Unton,had fourofthetop eight fmishers. Darbyshire finished frrst, with a time of 46.30, followed by H<>erle, who fm- ished with a time ot 4'655. Flick came in fourth once again withatimeof47.29, while Smyth tied foiseventh place, with a time of 47.95. Hoerle won the 200 free, fjn.ishirig in 1 :43,06, . while Smyth captured :;'econd place, with a· time of 1:43.49. In the 500'free, senior Matt Glogowski took seventh place, finishing in 4:49.47. Glogowski also had a third place finish in the 200 back, finishing with a time · ofl:57.72. In the 200 IM,. Union's Searles captured first place, finishing with a time of 1:53.27, whiie .Anderson came in fifth place, finish- ingwithatime of I :59.99. Searles-came in second place in the 400 IM, with a time of 4;05 .87. Also, Matt Mauri ell() canw in sev- enth place, finisbin~ with a ti~e of4: 19 .54. UConn Wins Big East, Duke Wins ACC Union's successful streakcontinuedinthe It was billed as super Saturday. Duke vs North Carolina, Kentucky vs South Carolina, breast stroke events as well. A·nderson won UConn vs St. Jolm's, Arizona vs Stanford, and Utah vs New Mexico alltook to t)Ie hard- boththe l00and200hreast,fmi:shing:ins7.96 wood this past.Saturday and much was at stake. It was supposed to I:Je one of· college and2:06.59, respectively. Humpimys fin- basketball's most exciting weekends ·of the year. However, only one ()fthe games was lshed fourth in the 1 00 breast, with a time of decided by under ten points. U conn dismantled St. John's by 29 points !Jehind a superb all I :00.36, ~hile Mike Rixtnan finiShed 8th, with around game from Kha:lid El-Amin .. Powered by El-Amin's 29 points, 7 assists and 6 re- histimeofl:OR99. Sophomore Rob Kirkman . bounds, UConn had St. John ~s looking like a mediocre NIT team and certainly not a team took ninth place, with a time of 1:01.26 .. 'which.posted2l victodeson the yeat. UC()nn wontheBigEasttitle for the fifth time in its Rixm.:malsohada.secondplacefmish intne , history, tying the league record set by St. John's, Syr;-acuse, and Georgetown. Arizona 200breast, with a time of2:T0.80. equally .embarrassed Stanford. the Wildcat's went on a 17-4 run early in the second half Searles and Mauriello took: seeond and and n~ver looked back. The Cats went on t() win 90-58 and CBS was forcedto take viewers fourth, respectively, in the 2~0 fly .. Searles · away from the game early because ofthe blowout. The one game that did not disappoint finished in 1:55.59,whileMauriello finished . anybody was the Duke/North Carolina game. Mid-waythroughthe sec()rrd half, with the with a time-of 1:58.32. T<:u:heels ·lipby 17 ~ it looked like Duke was headed for its second defeat at the hands of the In the 100 fly, senior Mike Macomber had Tarheels this season .. However, Duke shut down Carolina over the final eleven minutes an eighth place finish, compiet~ng the race holding them to just two field goals. Duke got 13 second halfpoints from Elton Brand and in, 54.43. Freshman Aaron Seligerhad a 13tli' it seemed as if the Tarhee Is did not have an answer for hirn down the stretch. Duke's depth place finish, With his time of 55 .72. wore down the tarheels and they missed :key free throws in the dosing seconds that would In the diving events, Union·' s-Brran Field · have hroughtthe game to overtime. Duke won the ACC for the 12th time and 5th time in the was a stand out, winning botli the·]: fiteier · 90'~. These bitter rivals could still potentially meet two more times this season, once in their and 3 meter events. His score ·of.540\.15 in . confere~.ce tournament and again in the NCAA tournament. This yeal's addition or the the 3 meter competition qualified fiiriifor.tb:e . ·ri:Yaliyisfarfr()m over. national meet next weekend. Sophomore · Adam Hershman accumulated 371.60 pojnts in the 3 meter events, which secured him a . fourth placefinisk Ryan McKmtey finished. · I lth in the 3-meter, accumulating267.35to- · tal points. · Union swimmers Anderson, Darbyshire, Field, Flick, Hoerle, Searles, Smyth, and Humphreys will all participate inthe national • meet, which will be held the weekend of March 19-21, in St. Louis, Missouri. In ad- dition to the national qualifiers, all of the members oftheUnion Swimming andDi\- ing team, including Glogowski, llershman, . Kirkman, Macomber, Nathaniel Martin, · Mauriello, McKinley, Rixman, Charles Robertson, Jared Scliulman, Seliger, Matt Silverman, NoahTrueger, andMike Webb, competed well and contributed to Union's phenomenal season. [t'sThatTimeofthe Year Again With the conclusion of the regular season, the NCAA tournament is only a week away. Soon the brackets will be out and stuc;lents and teachers will be filling ollt their version of who will win the 64 team field. Teams such as lona, will get their. shot at knocking off the Duke's ofthe World, and their moment in the spotlight. Princeton will finally get their chance to show the nation they are for real. The Big East can finally shut up the Fader's of the world by advancing deep into the tournament. It is a tournament that i!Iustrates every- thing that is right about sports. Players are playing to win, not for the mo11ey. One look at a players face will tell you the importance of each second ofevery game. f()r many it will be their last college game. Some will go on to the NBA, others will move on to less spectacular professions. However, this is their time to shine on the basketball court a!ld our last time to enjoy the heroics that they wi II shed as they march toward their goal of the Alamodome. Playerofthe Week Elton B~nd F Duke. Brand scored l6 points in Duke's dramatic 77-75 win over North Carolina. Brand was spectacular down the stretch as he shut down Antawn Jamison and powered Duke ahead of Carolina. 13 of Brand's 16 points came in the second half as Duke suddenly found • themselves leading the Tarheels with 1 minute remaining. Brand is still worldng himselfinto shape after missing much ofthe season with a broken foot. Match-Upofthe Week Big East Championship, Saturday, March 7 Saturday's matcll-up at the Garden will play a significant role on the seedings. IfUConn is able to win the tournamentthey may sneak in as a number one seed if they can get some help. Also, an impressive showing by Miami could send them to the NCAA tournament and giv_e the Big East five representatives in the tournament. TCipTen Right now r thi.nl< Arizona is the best team in the country. They proved that over the weekend with their impressive win over a _g(JOd Stanford team. Duke's win over North Carolina was also C()nvincing, but Arizona is playing the type of basketball that won them the national ch.ampionship last season. North Carolina is still number 3 despite their recent · losses. Thanks again to those who have. contributed to the fan poll. Remember to write to mailbox #902 by Stmday to be included. Yaffee's Poll Fan Polf.i .1. Arizona I. Duke 2. Duke 2. Arizona 3. North Carolina 3. Kansils 4. Kansas 4. North Carolina 5. Utah 5. Utah 6. UConn 6 UConm 7. Kentucky 7. Kentucky 8. Princeto11 8. Purdue 9. Purdue 9. Mississ.ippi 10. Stanf()rd Cory Silken . Senior Ryan McKinley's 267 points helped Union take the stalf! title.

- Farewell to Friends ' . .:· .' I . I

Farewell to Friends I I I II L ' i I ' j L

