''Some people dream ofsuccess ... while others wake up and work hard at it.'' . . Volume CXXVIIL Number 1 The Student Newspaper qf Union College Since 1877 September. 17, 1998 .News: ; Sophomore Rush Update Page 4 Construction News Page 3 World News: Thelssueof Morality Page6 Features: Beware of the Mail Page 12 Sports: Stan Moore heads to Colgate Page20 Alpha Delta Phi Receives Extension by Brooke Barylick News Editor At the close of school in June a conclusion had yet to be reached. Was AD Phi going to lose its house? Would Admissions fmally be able to acquire the space it needed to run a more efficientop- eration? Questions loomed in the air as the dorms and houses emp- .. tied for the summennonths. Now, at the beginning of another aca- demic year at Union College, the questions will be answered. After · ·• many months of negotiations and . compromises, an agreement has been reached that appears to be · satisfactory to both parties. On August 28, President Hull, Diane Blake and the Chairman of the Board met with Rob Wilder, who is the President of Alpha Delta Phi Alumni, Steve Stadtmeir and Dave Eddy to discuss the matter. Many conversations oc- curred over the summer to allevi- ate the situation. Neither party wantedto send the issue to court and hoped that their discussions would lead to a solution. Now a deal has been reached that is sat- isfactory for the interests of both ··· . sides. Legal documents have been drawn up and the attorneys are presently talking to determine the intricate details incorporated in the agreement. Many months ago, when the talks about the relocation of Ad- missions began, the Administra- tion believed that this process of The New AD (AA}missions Building relocating Admissions and AD, would be a simple one. They as- sumed that AD would realize that it was time for them to inhabit an- other house on campus in order to allow the college to maintain its high level of excellence. The mem- bers of the committee examined many issues that pertained to the matter of needing a new home for Admissions. They debated over which gate should indeed be the . main gate and decided that Payne Gate was the most attractive solu- tion. Then it was deemed that one of the locations on Library Lane needed to be converted into an Admissions building. The lease for Alpha Delta Phi was dosely studied and it was dis-· covered that there was one section of the lease that allowed the col- lege to proceed forward with their ideas. The document, written on November 20, 1894, states that: \It is hereby further agreed that if the parties of the first part (Union Col- lege) shall by resolution passed and adopted at any meeting of their Board ofTrustees, decide and determine that it is for the interests of such College or the students connected therewith, that this lease and the term hereby created Union Enters 204th Year by Jonathan Gasthalter Editor-in-Chief Emeritus On a day interspersed with rain and at a sparsely filled Memorial Chapel, Union College celebrated its 204th academic year with its President, Roger Hull, lauding the college community for events that comprised the \great year\ that was 1997-98. Hull urged the col- lege to strive for perfection as well, re-stating the now familiar words, \attaining perfection is impossible, of course, but striving for it - and · improving in the process - is es- sential.\ Hull touched upon the large · number of physical improvements to the campus including the reno- vated Schaffer Library as well aS the near completion of the Olin Center. He also pointed out the ' addition of student social space, citing the connection of the Rathskellarto Old Chapel. FinaiJy, Hull announced that the College had received \$27 million in gifts (a record) and $4 million in the An- nual Fund (also a record), andsaw [its] endowment grow to more than $240 million. However,his main points touched on the promotion of di- versity and the continuation ofthe dialogues associated. with the is- sue that were initiated last Spring. To promote diversity, Hull an- nounced what he termed an \affrr- mative affirmative action plan\ and cited a number of initiatives already underway under it. Programs in- cluding one providing incentives for Union students of color to re- turn to the College as teachers and a minority fellows program, have hit the ground running, with the frrst of the fellows already hired. In addition, Hull stated that the college would meet the market \fi- nanciaUy for black and Hispanic faculty\ and that \four additional tenure-track lines for under-repre- sented minorities\ would be imple- mented. Junior Heidi Solomon agreed with President Hull that the college would benefit from an increase in faculty and student diversity. \I think that the fact that the college is becoming more diverse is ex- tremely beneficial for the welfare of the students. Having a homo- geneous campus is unrealistic be- cause society is not homogenous. We are preparing to live in a soci- ety,\ she said. Gender diversity was also a topic of reform addressed by President Hull. \Our goal is to insure equity in the mens and womens athletic programs To carty out our goal crew last year became a varsity sport, and womens ice hockey will reach varsity status next yearand . significant funds will be infused into recruiting female athletes,\ he said. Caryn Anapolsky, a senior Dean's List student, enjoyed the evening ceremony. \I thought that the speeches were well organized Cmttinued on page 4 shall cease and determine, then this lease and the term hereby created shall cease and detennine without further other process or proceed- ing, and the party of the second part (Alpha Delta Phi) shall forth- with vacate and surrender the above described premises to the parties of the flrst part, freed and discharged all right, claim or de- mand of the party of the second part therein.\ The College decided that the time was right to move Admissions and proceed with their much needed search for a better, more accommodating space for visiting students, and AD was the place to which they desired to relocate. However, the Administration did not figure into their equation the emotional ties and arguments that ensued after the announcement of their intentions. AD Phi enlisted the help offellow students and alumni to make a concerted effort to save their I 00+ year old house. They petitioned against the relocation of their house and rejected the other offers that the administrative com- mittee suggested. The administra tion was subsequently accused of being against the Greek system because they chose a fraternity as their target. The Spring Term of 1998 can be remembered for the repeated arguments about this is- sue that prevented any progress from being made. Recently, things have changed. For the emotional reasons stated above, the committee has decided Continued on page 5 Ho.ckey Coach Resigns Unexpectedly by Brian Terlinsky Sports Editor Two months before opening their 1998-1999 season, the Union Col- lege Athlethic Department and the entire college community received a mid-summer shocker with the res- ignation of two-year head coach Stan Moore. Athletic Director Dick Sakal a and Assistant Coach Kevin Sneddon, the two closest people to Moore, said they had had no prior knowl- edge of any type of move Moore was thinking to carry-out before notifying the school irt July. After leaving Union, Moore will continue his career in collegiate hockey by reuniting himself with his former Eastern Collegiate Athlethic Con- ference (ECAC) team, at Colgate Continued on page 20

Camp\Us Life Page 2 • Septermber 17, 1998 • QJ:nn.cotb-iensis Security Incident Report SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 5,1998 THROUGH SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1998 DATEJTIMEILOCA TION 9:07PM 12:02 AM 12:18 AM 3:18AM 2:45 ·PM 6:19PM 9:55PM 3:10AM 12:10 PM 6:11 PM 3:00AM 12:40 PM 3:00PM 5:26PM 6:29PM 11:50 AM 1:05PM 11:00 PM ll :44 PM 645 AM 9:20AM I 1:12AM 3:57PM 7:38PM 9:17AM 2:12 PM 2:55PM 6:20PM 11:27 PM I 1:47PM 1:11 AM 9:05AM 3:31 PM 2:30AM 7:15AM 8:43PM 7:27PM 8:47PM 10:40 PM Fox Hall Richmond AD Phi West College Residence Hall Psi Upsilon Riclunond Campus Grounds Psi Upsilon Smith House Edwards House Edwards House Richmond Raymond House Fox House AD Phi S&E-S;.2J8 Richmond Fox House West Lot Fox North Boathouse West Lot West College S&E 2\d floor WestCollege Achilles Lot Potter House Davidson Davidson Riclunond Chi Psi Psi Upsilon West Beach Bailey Field Arts Department Davidson kitchen Dutch Hollow Dutch Ho.llow area INCIDENT SATURDAY,SEPTEMBER5,1998: VANDALISM: Cigarette um located at southeast entry broken. SUNDAY,SEPTEMBER(i, 1998: SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Student became ill due to consumption of alcoholic beverage. Transported to Ellis Hospital. ConductCilarges filed. LIFESAFETY VIOLATION: T;unpering with room smoke detector. THEFT: Students stealing cups from dining service storage. Conduct Charges filed. · HARASSMENT: Student received harassing phone call from another student's parent. SAFETY HAZARD: Report of a gas odor in tile building. On Call plumber was notified. Slight leak from gas pipe-loose fitting. Fixed. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Received an anonymous call about possible sale of drugs. Officers located several juveniles in area ... SPD responded to assist. No drugs or weapons found. Subject identified and advised offcampus. MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1998: PROPERTY DAMAGE: Minor property damage as a result of severe electrical storm. Fire alarms affected; tree limbs damaged. SAFETY HAZARD: Several exits from the building obstructed by debris/improper storage. SAFETY HAZARD: Student locked in room due to lock malfunc tion.Door was opened and On-Call locksmith was notified to respond to repair the lock. TUESDAY, SEPTEMBERS, 1998: SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Students using marijuana in room. Drug paraphernalia confiscated. Conduct Charges filed. VANDALISM: Smoke detector in common hallway was damaged causing a false fire alarm. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. TRESPASS: Vendor for local restaurant was in the building selling discount food coupons. Subject identified and advised off campus. TRESPASS: Vendors were inside the building selling coupons. One suspect identified. Suspect had an authorized space in the Reamer center and was told that he could travel the campus. He was properly advised. TRESPASS: Several persons representing a local restaurant were distributing advertisements in the building. Suspects located, identi fied and advised off campus. WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1998: PROPERTY DAMAGE: Mino.t: damage to porch pillars. Cause undetermined .. SAFETY HAZARD: Concern raised regarding potential hazard regarding gas burners in lab. Concern referred to Chemical Hygiene Officer and Utilities for evaluation and action. HARASSMENT: Profanity written on room note board. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odor of marijuana reported-unable to conf- ilTll. THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10,1998: VANDALISM/THEFT: Campus safety patrol noted that a student's car window was broken. Student verified that the car had been entered · and items in car had been stolen. SAFETY HAZARD: Fire exits in residence area were blocked by debris and improper storage. TRESPASS: Group of juveniles \':'ere on the college dock and in moored boats. SPD took subjects into custody. No damage noted. TRESPASS: Vendor placing advertisements. on cars. Advised off campus. TRESPASS: Vendor in building distributing advertising materials for a local restaurant. Suspect had left building. Letter sent to business owner advising of campus policy. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11,1998: SAFETY HAZARD: Gas odor reported. Gas valve was not properly shut off in lab area. Valve shut down-area vented. TRESPASS: Vendors in building distributing advertising materials for a local restaurant. Subjects located, identified and advised off campus. Had gained entry when a resident held the door opened. TRESPASS: Two juveniles loitering in parking lot near a moped. Subjects identified and advised off campus. FIRE: Small fire (dried leaves) outside of residence. Believe caused by discarded cigarettes. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Student became ill due to consumption of alcoholic beverage. Conduct Charges filed. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Student became ill due to consumption of alcoholic beverage. Transported to Ellis Hospital. Conduct Charges filed. SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 12,1998: SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Student became ill due to consumption of alcoholic beverage. Conduct Charges filed. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Tampering with room smoke detector. VANDALISM: Door closer removed from door-door damaged. SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 13,1998: SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Student became ill due to consumption of alcoholic beverage. Transported to Ellis Hospital. Conduct Charges filed. VANDALISM: Goal post damaged. VANDALISM: Rampant, indiscriminate damage through the building. SAFETY HAZARD: Gas odor reported. On call plumber notified. Pilot lights were out. FIRE: Minor fire on kitchen grill. Extinguished by staff member. No damage or injury. THEFT: Several students observed stealing pedestal fan from the loading dock area-fled scene. Announcements An ad-hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenurability of Karen Brison, Assistant Professor of Anthropology. The committee's members are Sharon'Gmel¢}1 (Anthropology), Chris Duncan (Visual Arts), Julius Barbanel (Mathematics), and BruceReynolds (Economics), Chair. Any member.ofthe campus community wishing to offer written or oral testimony concerning Professor Brison's teaching, scholarship or col- lege service should contact Professor Reynolds (x6217, reynoldb@union.edu) or any other member ofthe committee. An ad-hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenurability of Ronald Bucinell, AssistantProfessorofMechanical Engineering. The committee's members are Cherrice Traver (EE/CS), Richard Wilk (Me- chanical Engineering), Jill Salvo (Biology) and Robert Wells (History), Chair. Any member of the campus community wishing to offer written or oral testimony concerning ProfessorBucinell's teaching, scholarship or college serviceshouldcontactProfessorWells (x6223, wellsr@union,edu) or any other member ofthe committee. An ad-hoc committee has been fonned to consider the tenurability of AshrafGhaly, Assistant Professor ofCivil Engineering. The committee's members are Mohammad Mafi (Civil Engineering), Rudy Nydegger (GMI),Yu Chang (EE/CS) and Karl Zimmermann (Mathematic~), Chair. Any member of the campus community wishin.g to offet written or oral testimony concerning Professor Ghaly's teaching, scholarship or col- lege service should contact Professor Zimmermann. (x6192, zimmermk@union.edu)or any other member ofthe committee. An ad-hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenurability of Stephen Horton, Assistant Professor of Biology. The committee's mem- bers are Barbara Danowski (Biology), Tom Jewell (Civil Engineering), Leslie Hull (Chemistry) and Harold Fried (Economics), Chair. Any mem- ber ofthe campus community wishing to offer written or oral testimony concerning Professor Horton's teaching, scholarship or college service should contact Professor Fried (x636g, friedh@union.edu) or any other member of the committee. An ad-hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenurability of Yoshimitsu Khan, Assistant Professor of Japanese. The committee's members are Scott Scullion (Classics), John Spinelli (EE/CS), Victoria Martinez (Modern Languages) and James Lambrinos (GMI), Chair. Any member of the campus community wishing to offer written or oral testi- mony concerning Professor Khan's teaching, scholarship or college service should contact Professor Lanibrinos (x6253, lambrinj@union.edu) or any other member of the committee. An ad-hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenurability of . Amanda Leamon, Assistant Professor of french. The committee's mem- bers are Jordan Smith (English), Michael Rudko (EE/CS), Pilar Moyano (Modem Languages) and Martin Strosberg ( GMI), Chair. Any member of the campus community wishing to offer written or oral testimony · concerning Professor Leamon's teaching, scholarship or college service should contact Professor Strosberg (x:6299, strosbem@union.edu) or any other member ofthe committee. An ad-hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenurability of Stephen Leavitt, Assistant Professor of Anthropology. The committee's members are Andrew Feffer (History), George Gmelch (Anthropology), Jan Ludwig (Philosophy) and George Butterstein (Biology), Chair. Any member ofthe campus community wishing to offer written or oral testi- mony concerning Professor Leavitt's teaching, scholarship or college service should contact Professor Butterstein (x6327, buttersg@union.edu) or any other member of the committee. An ad-hoc committee has been fonned to consider the tenurability of Catherine Womack, Assistant Professor ofPhilosophy. The collllhittee' s members are Felmon Davis (Philosophy), Walter Hatke (Visual Arts), Mark Walker (History) and Linda Stanhope (Psychology), Chair. Any member of the campus community wishing to offer written or oral testi- mony concerning Professor Womack's teach.ing, scholarship or college service should contact Professor Stanhope (x6543, stanhopl@union.edu) or any other member of the committee. (

'• Campus·News CO:nmorbitnsis• September 17, 1998 • Page 3 ~ . . The New Old Chap.el: Renovations for Social Spac,e Facts on New Faculty I>yGina Campanelfa Contriblltillg fiiter r' . ·,, • J The renovation of Old Chapel, whic-h began in· t~e $pring, is scbed'!lled tQ open this weekend. One of many highly anticipated renovation projects on campus, this promises. to be the first one completed. .........._ Some of these events include Bingo on Saturday October 3\\. a Psychic Fair on Friday October 9, ®.d Student Group talent Night on Friday October 23. by Brooke Barylick News Editor This project began as an effort to . provide more social space for the students as an altemative to the campus center. The expansion of indoor social space will be en•· joyed thoroughly When the out- door temperature falls! Thosestudentswho are familiar with the fonner interior of Old Chapel will notice some defmite changes,. not only in clec~r. but in function as well. For-e:xample, the· lower level now contains a dance floor and will have tables and chairs where students can go to read, sit~ talk and just about anything else .. ! ~; .. '1., The newly renovated Old Robert Balrn<;lr has been named Chapel wUl also be available for the new D~an of Engineering for stud.ent organizations to .host Union College. He succeeds Rich- . events. If any organization is in- . ard Keny()n who retired :from the terested in res·erving the Old post last year. During the vacancy Chapel for an event, they should · · DavidHannay,aprofessorofcom- contact Shelley Ducatt, the new puter science and engineering, fill- Director of Student Activities. filleithe position as acting dean. However, as of now, all events Professor Balmer received a scheduled for the Old Chapelmust B.S.E. in mechanical engineering, be open to the entire campus. This · a B.S.E. in engineering mathemat- reg:ulation may be reviewed' at a ics and an M.S.E. in mechanical en- later date. hut for now it stands. · gineering from the University of Another social space located very Michigan. Healso holds a Sc.D. in near to Old Chapel is the mechanical engineering from the Rathskellar, which has already University()fVirginia. opened for the year. Before joining the staff at Union Dean Schuriekhopes tQ be able to $Upply some magazines and newspapers for students to read while they are in the b11ilding. The second floor will be furnished with two pool tables and tw<> foosball tables~ Students will be able to 'rent' out pool cues .andfoosballs. In addition, some of the services, which used to be available at the New usesfor Old Chapel. TheRathskellar itselfhas not un- College, Professor Balmer wasas- (lergone renovation; however, the · sociate dean for academic pro- renovation of Old Chapel will in- grams and research for the College elude indoor access to the of Engineering and Applied Sci- Rathskellar so students won't . enceatthe University ofWiscon- have. to go outside to travel be- sin, Milwaukee. At UWM, he was tween the two places. That should particularly known for his ability be very convenient in the winter! to create, design and teach inno- infonnation desk in the campus center, such as video rental and flower delivery; will now be based .in the Old Chapel. The building was renovated with the int¢ntion of housing special events and will be available to any type of on cam~ pus organization including those that are administratively and stu- dent run, Many campus events, which will be taking place in Octo- ber,. will be held .in Old Chapel. The tentative hours for the new vative laboratories. He is described social space are as follows; Mon- by profess(}rs and students as hav- day-Thursday 12PM-12AM, Fri- ing keen interest in imaginative day l2PM-6'PM, Saturday 12PM- .projects that combine the study of 8PM, and Sunday 2PM-12AM. . liberal arts with: engineering prin- Hope to see you aU there! . ciples and methods. He also col- laborated with colleagues in the Alumni In Admissions The L.ibrary: Are We DoneY et? history and phil()sophy depart- .· ments ofthe University of Wiscon- sin to teach courses as part of the university's C'Ultural and Techno l- ogy Studies program. by Eric S1Jeldon by Tany Zu«:kermann. Contributing Writer . Contributing Wri~er Union College has added two Drilling. Banging. Loud voiCes new, yet familiar faces to its ad- . echoing above the censtant sound missions staff. Kelly Herrington, . of ajackhammer. Could thjs be the from Pittsford, VA, graduated in library? Anyone who has been 1996. He recently completed a · coming. to Schaffer Library to es~ cross-comi.try bicycle ride from· . capethe·distractlng·noises oftheir ~~:E Seattle, WA to Washington D.C. dortn room has probably noticed te bendit the American Lung As.- . that the library is not exactly the sociation. While. attending l,Jnion, best sanctuary if one is looking for Herrington majored. in psychology peace and quiet. In fact, the only and minored in Afdcana studies. real difference :from a donn is that He later received his Masters in Dave Matthews is not emanating Social Work from the University from every crack in the walls. There of Pennsylvania. is some goodnews, however. ''For Kristen Morse, originally from . all intensive purposes, [the library] Keene, NI:I, graduated in 1994 and is finished now,\ says Steve majored in psychology with: ami- · Fillipone, the superintendent who nor in Japanese. After graduating, . · is in charge of th1:: construction Morse traveledtoGerrnanywhere project. / she studied German. Later, she ar- The library was Oiigmally sched- rangedinternational tripsforhigh • uled to be completed on the last school students and spent time day of August in tir111e for the be- working on a dude ranch in Mon- ginning of the a<;:ademic year. tana. There was,.howeveJ~, an unexpected During their senior year, both two~ week extension of the sched• Herrington and Morse wo1:ked as · uleil completion date due to the interns in the admissions office~ . need for asbestos abatement. As- Herrington now works with stu- bestos is old insulation material dent volunteers in .such programs · which can be considered hazard- as Gatekeepers and the Ambassa- ous and must be n::moved by pro- dors Program, while Morse is an fessionals. ath.Jetic liason. All admissi<lhs of- The legitimate c<mlpletion date is ficer.s C<lnductinterviews and read now the second week of Septem- applications. In addition, they her. \The COIJiltra.c>tor is on time,\ travel to v:arious high schools and . says Fillipon1~ .. \The Certificate of college fairs. Occupancy ill,. e:ICpected the week When asked ifall admi~si<lns of- of the 15th.\ ficers would eventually consist of The two-wef.k delay is hardly alumni, Betsy Phelps, a member of cause for cotllplaint because the tile admissions staff, replied it was finished prodtn~ will be well worth improbable and believes it's bet- · t\'e wait. Tberenov:ation of the li- ter to have both alumni and non- . brary includ.(::d three phases: the aiun1ni working in the office~ \It's demolition <•ftbeoriginal structure, great to have both of them,\ says the constru,c:1:i1an ofthe new addi- Phelps, ''because it brh!gs ill .dif- tion which i~~ n;vice as big as the ferent perspectives.\ · old one, avtd the remodeling of Dave Meguerdichianfi'C Once completed, the new Schqffer Library will be phenomenal both the interior and .the exterior contractors in the area on this job; of the building to bouse an exten- people involved in projects includ- sive technological network that ing local schools, the Albany air- has access to many internet and port, and SUNY Library. reference systems. We had a greatrelationship with All one needs to do is venture the college;\ he says. \But you can downandtakealook to know what only do so :much in a certaiti pe- a terrific job has been done. riod oftime.\ Well, Mr. Fillipone, Fillipone adds: \We had the best we all think it's a job well done. The members of the Union engi- neering department are excited to have Professor Balmer join their staff and lo()k forward to the in- sight that he brings to our insitution. Other Additions: Union Co liege welcomes 18 new faculty members this fall. They are: Thomas Ashman, assistant pro- fessor of finance .for the Graduate Management Institute. Ryan Balot, visiting assistant . professor of Classics. Charles Batson, vishing assis- tant professor of French. Kofi Benefo, assistant professor of Sociology. Mark Brandriss, visiting assis- tant professor of Geolo~. Tia Gafford- Williams, post-doc- toral fellow in Africana studies. MelindaGoidnet; visiting assis- tant professor of Sociology. Rebecca Koopmann, visiting as- sistant professor of physics. Lydia Martinez, visiting assis- tant professor of Chemistry. Carolyn Mitchell, professor of English and director of Women's Studies. Daniel Mosquera, visiting as- sistant professor of Spanish,·· Zoe Oxley, assistant professor of Political Scien(;e. Matthew Rcdferty, visiting assis- tant professor ofEconomics. Steven Rice. assistant professor of Biology. Rebecca Surman~ visiting assis- tant professor of physics Marc Toni!jcmollich, visiting as- sistant professor of Economics. Susan Van De11enter, visiting assistant professor of French. Michael Yo21ng .. visiting assis· tant professor of 'Visual Arts.

Page 4 • September 17, 1998 • <IJnm:nr.UitttS~is Campus News Into Focus: Art on Science Rush Rules and Reformation by Brooke Barylick News Editor H()W is science perceived by the college community? To some of us it is a difficult subject that is avoided at all costs because we do not ,comprehend the underlying principles of the matter. However, to those of us who do understand the material, it is a wonderful sub- ject that opens many doors and av- enues of research and discovery that 'Could lead to an exciting ca- reer as· a scientist. The exhibit Into Focus: Art on Science appeals to all because it depicts science in a creative and interesting manner, showing many different aspects of the subject. The show brings together 12 art- ists renowned for their work in de- picting the \culture of science.\ The N()tt Memorial's Mandeville Gallery is the home for the exhibit unti 1 October I 1. The show con- tains a variety of pieces ranging from ~mall, detailed pencil drawings to elaborate installations that re- quire. their own separate room for display. Adrienne Klein is the cu- rator of the event. She is an artist and a curator from Schenectady who also submitted pieces for the exhibrt. Ms. Klein's installations relate to science, mathematics and the electronic media. KLein was the recipient of the 1998 individual artist grant from the Albany-Schenectady League of Arts. The purpose ofthe grant was to examine the intersection of art and science. Klein noted that the collection is \very much a survey of artists who examine the role sci- ence plays in our culture.\ The ex- hibit allows those members of the community who are not familiar with science and its terminology to catch a glimpse ofit through art. It also provides an opportunity for those who are science oriented to see the ideas in a different light, perhaps providing insight or expla- nation. The pieces illustrate the concerns of scientists today and some ofthe processes and proce- dures they follow in experiments in addition to samples of the vo- cabulary they use in their daily in- teractions with science. Some examples of the exhibit's contents include a piece by Dove Bradshaw called \Negative Ions III.\ The simplicity of the work shows the preeminence of natural processes. It consists of a glass funnel that is suspended from the ceiling. Water slowly drips from this fun- nel onto a rough sample of salt rock. The droplets fall languidly from the funnel however, because the water does not cease, a small crevasse becomes evident in the salt rock which illustrates how can- yonsfonn. Another work takes a different ap .. p· roach as that. of a.pop-up .b·· ook. a social 011tlet as well as an educa- by Stephanie Slobotkin Francois Deschamps an. d Judith. , . ro.1· • tional experience to add to the lib- c;uttor•m-Chiej Mohns pay tribute to the founder .• ----...---.-:..------ eralartsacademiaofUnion. . 0 f analytical geometry, Rene . Last Spring. a proposal was made \According to the administration, Descartes, a 17 th century philoso- • · to alter the Greek system, chang- this change must occur because of pher, mathematician and scientist,. ·, ing the way Greek houses select the 32 small liberal arts colleges with their book. Daniel Zeller shares most ofth.eirnew members from the who have supposedly changed his fictitious pencil drawings of . freshmen who participate in the their process to a sophomore rush. internal organs while Catherine rush process that takes place in If Union did so as well, we would Wagner chose to display her black January. Reasons for this pro- take the risk out of losing fratemi- and white photographs of scien- posed change were based on the ties and sororities completely .. \ tific apparatus. Lab apparatus also fact that faculty membe~s of the Committee member and senior makes an appearance in the works college concur that rushing and Jamie Drown said. \This idea of Eve Andree Laramee who ere- pledging during freshmen year has forces people to move towards ated a ta~leaux from such instru- caused toomany difficulties for the greater things.'' ments as beakers of varying sizes, ·. freshrnan.intheiracademicachieve- The academic mission, from the twowhichhavebeenlabeled \Ide- mentsduring the latter halfofthe college's standpoint, is the only ology\ and \Unc.ertainty'; to illus- year. mission of the college. \Nurturing trate Laramee's idea that emotional An official proposal was written the minds of students inside and over the summer months in ord· er· outsi·de the classroom t·s e · states are equal partners with · . · · · · · · nee ssary science's empirical fmdings. to focus clearly on the issue. Presi- for educated individuals,\ commit- A discussion is scheduled for dent HuH appointed a committee tee member Dean Christina Sorum Thursday, September 1 7 at 7 : 30 PM ofstudents, faculty, administrators said. Particularly at such a small in the Nott Memorial, a reception· and an alumnus to address the idea college with relatively small will follow. The panelists includ~ of a sophomore rush. After a meet- classes the academics learned dur- Deschamps and Laramee in addi- ing held on Thursday, September ing classroom time should un- tion to Photomicroscopist Felice 10, the panel decided to appoint a doubtedly be carried out after class Frankel who plans to discuss her second group to address ques- into the social arena. Participants work with scientists and the ethics tions of the possible impact of the in the audience suggested that stu- of photo manipulation. Ms. Klein future implementation. dent/faculty relations needed to be will moderate the discussion. The Though no plans are defmite, the strengthened and a trust between Mandeville Gallery is open Mon- process ofan entire refotmation of. them formed. This tie would help day through Thursday 9 AM to 10 the Greek system will take place both parties gain a level of under- PM, Friday 9 AM to 5 PM, Satur- over the next five years. standing so that all sides of the day noon to 5 PM, and Sunday The revamping of the system rush issue are dealt with on com- noon to 10 PM. hopes to ensure students, particu- pletely rational and logical tenns. Notes From Student Forum larly freshmen, of an efficient time \We [the committee] can make frame of adjustment and explora- stronger Greek organizations tion·of college before making any agreeable with faculty and with permanent Greek oriented deci- each society.. But we also think Mef:!ting called to order at 7:3 I PM. Absent: .Aloan, Casola, Bene;t, Drown. Officer Reports: Fina11ce Parisi has copy of clubs · and budgets. Requests meeting on Thursday for all club representa- tives. T()m Marino will hold a com- puter training for treasurers of clubs. Also training for finance ccmmittee representatives. Admin- istratio-n Lynch called the COC af- ter the meeting. Campus Life Roache announced Shelly: the new student activities director (Gerry Johnson le! go). An- nollil.ces the beginning of the con- cert co1111Ilittee and a tentative con- cert with Siena HeandLemJework- ing on that.. Wetlness Theme House may be a group living situation now. Resi- dence Life is being restructured. Senior Class President Chaplin announces that senior nights will be held at the Van Dyke .. Junior Class President Barry announced a tailgate party for football games sponsored by the junior clas~ and the possibility of an )ili.alf-way- done® party. Sophomore Class President Lemle no announcemellt Committee Reports: SAC Chaplin announced a ten- tative SAC meeting on Wednesday at 5:30 with Prof. Adrian. FCJrum Consultant Markowski announced the forum retreat to Camp Gingakook on Friday September 18-19. The fonim will leave on Fri- day around 4 PM and return on Saturday between 5 and 6 PM. Announced outdoor activities, bring sleeping bag. A letter will be sent with more infonnation later in the week. * Problem with the Jew- ish holidays that weekend* Old business: none. sions. Accordingto faculty teach- change will only work if it is 3) Each person and position has ing freshman courses, they re- gradual,\ Leif said. a mailbox in the student forum counted occasions when students \Slow implementation is a must,\ room. The minutes are to be ap- · were either absent, sleeping in class said Drown. \Since fraternities are proved. A notebook for the orhadamved \unk:emptandsmell- basedonmannersandchivalry,the agenda is in the forum room. Any . ing of alcohoL\ 'Ihe proponents of key to a successful result would · new infonnation for the meetings the written document, which all be to revert back to those tradi- can be added into the mailbox. · students received in their mail- tiona! morals and values.\ 4) One night will be set aside to boxes last week, suggests that According to the faculty and ad• introduce the student forum mem- sophomores will be able to balance ministration on the committee Oil hers to the campus ... particulady the their academic and social life more sophomore rush, they are willing freshmen. Discussion on this topic . easily. to comply with Greeks' needs and ended with the decision to go door · After much debate last year, those will make concerted efforts to in- to door and hall by hall. Tentative · who oppased sophomare rush volvemore faculty to inform them date for this event is Tuesday Oc- voiced the concern that it would of the 'chivalry and tradition' that tober l5at7:30PM. abate an opportunity that many tnanyGreeksocietiestrytoachieve. 5) The forum list serve is avail- students recognize as a valuable Faculty and students are encour- able. Send messages to component of a four-year college aged to make a coalesced effort to Amajordomo®@union.edu. In the experience. ''Students are here to work towards a complete teforma- message type Asubscribe sforum . learn . . . that fact is unquestion- tion of the Gteek system on the your email address®. To send a able .. But the social aspect is an whole. Thereformexperimentwill message type sfonun and able to important:part as well,\ committee begin as soon as possible and the send messages to everyone on the member DeborahLeif, senior and new system would begin with forum. President of the Panhellenic Coun- Class of2004. The next few years 6) Announcementthat class pic- cil said. will be transitional ones whose turesforclassesof1999and2000 The committee panel at specificswillbedeterminedbythe did not come out. Request for class Thursday's meeting emphasized official committee. The fmal result pictures during Homecoming. making a commitrnentto creating a cannot come to fruition, however, Have classes talk to Dean Alford social life at Union that would in- lest faculty, administration and and PAs for scheduling. elude both a reformed Greek sys- ·alumni commit to supporting the Wants to reopen applications for social c()mmittees. The Fall Festi- val set for October 16 and I 7 with the Street Party set for October 16. Octobel\ 17 is a campus golftour- name:nt. Lemle announced the - MTV Bonfire tour with Siena. Pos- sibility to make $6000 in profit. Tickets will be $15/student with free busing for students .. AAC Mondlick has ideas for acadern ic careers council. Any questions should talk to him. Multicultural Affairs Benet not in attendance. New business: Wierzbieniec 1) Meeting time for forum meet- ings will be Mondays at 6:45 PM. Parliamentary procedures will be implemented. Discussion time will be specified amount ·Of time per person. 7) Monday October 14 at 12:15 tern and an equally strong non- Greek system through the period PM is the open forum meeting . Greek sociallife. of change. Trustees Zandman and Markowski announce the first trustee rneetirtg in late October. The sch<Jol has chosen to act on the Alprua Delta Phi fraternity situ- atioll. The school will obtain the house an(). negotiations with AD are complete. IFC/Panhel Drown and Le:ifhave no announcements. THC Milllach announces the new 2) The computer in the student activities office is functional.. Will be open day and night Each fo- rum member should devote one hour/week tothe student activities room to help other students. *Leave hours in Debbie Pellish=s mailbox in order to make a list of all forumrnembers= hours .. 8) Jerry Johnson no longer in the The meeting also focused on how The campus community is invited Student Forum Office. Shelly will to create a \Greek system for the to comment on sophomore rush at be gone in February because she 21 51 century,\which can be a model thenextmeeting: Monday, Septem- is pregnant. Dean Shurick will be · for how Greek organizations can be . ber 21, at 12:15 PM, CC Aud. the head of student activities to · --------::;.C--. ____ ....._..;.........;;;..;;~;..;;.;;;:.;.;:..:..::.:;.;.;;.!-::.::..:;.;;.:;;,~-- assist her. Computer failures this ' 0 nv oca tiO n summer in the SAC led to prob- · lems with the computers now .• However, it should be fixed by the end of third week. Convocation will be Tuesday · September 8,1998at7:30pm. 9. Motion to adjourn by Lief. Seconded, meeting adjourned at . 8:15PM. .•. continued from page I and well-thought out. I wish more students from all years and classes, especially those who made Deans List would have attended. I thought that the mar\Charollnd campus and · seeing the faculty was great I felt . that the Convocation brought clo- sure to the 1997-1998 school year.\ Junior Kelen Barr agreed with those who were disappointed at the poor showing and said, \I went for the tradition of it, but I was not very itnptessed. I do not think that there were enough stu- dents there and the ceremony it- selfwas Very dry,\ she said. . : c - -- - ( in g. unc ginl 1 ag~ tioll Fou irnr cat( and o:pe bee1 ulty beeJ lege:: othc: buil SJ the, ing,. with audJ stan, jecti VCF 'I1 clas~ play ditor coli~ stud' arou rema to foro sion:! AD Ahm spa~c rel()c on tl and I curre reno· Alun: and canb ingF AD .. verte1 twou 14 br! tion t uledt ofth< the fh decid' thatv the rJ chang forei schoo stu c 9 s· 1~ sec yo1

Cameos News <II:.:mtnrmeu!iill • September 17, 1998 • Page 5 The Wait Continues: Olin Center Nears Completion by Shaun P. Montana $tajfWl'iter ers for individual students, with three clean rooms, a .sedimentary students, which is organized in the . 1oom for 40 total students. These process lab, a seismagraph room, cluster fonnat. The Environmental · thing from equipmentthat wouldn't fit through the glass doors located in the rear of the building to elec- trical wiring problems. Bill Schaffer, who is in charge of overseeing construction on both the library and the OlinCenter, says\we will be receiving the fmal occupancy permit on Wednesday and are planning on having the building open for classes this upcoming Monday.\ This will make fora twoft week tetal wait for the campus com- munity to make use of the build- ing. Union's hjgh-technology build- ing, the F. W. Olin Center, bas been 1.1nder construction. since the be- ginningof1998. The building, constructed with a generous 10 million dollar dona- tion to the College by the F. W. Olin Foundatien ofNew Y <>rk City, is an impressive-looking structure lo- cated between the College Center and Science and Engineering. The opening of the building has long been anticipated by students, fac- ulty, and the administration. It has been projected that all Union Col- lege students at one time or an- other will utilize the facilities the building has to offer. Spaces for general usage include the center attraction of the buildft ing, a state-of-the-art auditorium with seating for ~150 students. This auditorium has the capacity for standard slide and overhead pro- jection as well as computer and VCR display. There are six total electronic classrooms, which all feature dis-. play capabilities similar to the au- ditorium. Foutofthe six rooms are collaborative classrooms where students sit in groups. clustered around computer stati<>ns. The remaining two rooms have cotnput- facilities willgreatly Studies and Physics/ expand the already · Math labs can also be existing computer utilized by the engineer- facilities on campus. ing departments. Fi- The huildi11g is nally, the building has also the home of a. two wet labs with com- high-tech learning puter capabilities and center with full ·space for 24 students computer and VCR. each, with two adjacent capabilities. This -·~;; computer classrooms space include.s ._ that have 10 computers three conference/ ~ - and space for 40 stu- seminar rooms, dents each. These labs each with room f()r . will primarily be used by 15 students; five introductory and GenEd rooms for small Biology and Chemistry group study, each classes. with space for six The liteml crowning students; and one jewel of the building is central open study the Observatory located space withroom for in the center part of the 20 students. As building. With a rotat- with the computer ing dome visible from classrooms, these · many parts of the cam- spaces will greatly pus, the Observatory s uppl em en t th.e houses a 16 inch remote- study areas already controlled telescope, a available. Amanda PaytonfTC control room with com- The building is View of the Olin Center as it nears completion puters and monitors for the newhotne ofth.e -=-----~-~-::----~------- telescope operation and College's Geology Department andacorelaboratory. Environmen- viewing, and a rooftop observation and Environmental Studies Pro- tal Studies lab spaces include ahy- area with room for 20 students and gram, with seven offices and one drology/flume lab, a soils/materi- 10 telescopes. conference seminar room to serve als/structures lab, and prep space Rumors have abounded as to the faculty. There are/eight special- for each. There is a Physics/Math delays in opening the building to ized laboratory spaces, including studio laboratory, with room for 20 use. Thes¢ have included every- The building was scheduled to be open for the start of classes on September 7 but numerous delays and other problems made this im- possible. When asked about the delays Schaffer responded, \There are re- ally too many to go into. One prob- lem was that low bearing masonry was used, as opposed to structural steel. This takes longer to do. It was basically one thing after an- other going wrong, no one thing you can pinpoint We wanted to have the building done for the start of classes but we didn't have the occupancy permit and we were far enough behind that it wasn't worth trying.\ Whatever the specific causes of delay were, the campus can look forward to finally entering the building early next week. ADPhi Situation •.• continued from page 1 t() allow ADto occupy its ho~se AD's presenth.ouse needs many Open FQru.n.t ,~ otes for on.e more school yea~. Adm.is'\ renovations· in order to .doriverfit· sions will then move to AD, and into an adequate Admissions fa ... AD will move to Fero House. cility. The project will take at least Alumni Relations occupies this sixmonths·to complete. This build\:' Open Forum Meeting was held · September 14at 12:15 PM. spa~e ·in Feto House but will be ing will house Admissions as well Tfie meet-ing has been estah- tei()cating to the J>arkerRice Estate as fmartcial·aid~ Becker Hall; the lished to increase communication on tbe corner of Union: A venue building in whicll Admissions is between different organizations. and Lenox Road. Renovations are currently located, wiU be con- The Open Forum. will be held ev- curien:tly underway. As soon as verted into housing for approx:i~ erj first Monday of the month at renovations are complete, the mately 15 students. 12:15. AlmnniRelations'office\Villmove; The aforementioned decision's Meeting tiriies will be posted and construction on Fero House· were not easily made, nor were they across from Dutch Hollow. Orga- canbegin. mte colleg~ is reno vat- reached quickly. The administra- · nizations should fill out the forms ingFer() House to fit the needs of · tion feels that the proposal m\ade · · pa9sed out at the Finance meet- AD. The first floor will be con- to AD was fair and adequate com- ing on September 11 so tht;Jt their verted to living space, making the pensation fortheirhouse. lt is their time will be posted two upstairs floors rooms in which wish and the desire ofthe AD Phi . BI-weekly calendar of events is 14 brothers can live. Als~, an addi- · representatives that the bad feel- now located in the College Cen- tion to the kitchen area is sched- ings Will dissipate and allow for a . ter in an effort to make the events uled to accommodate for the needs progressive and educational year more publicized and to cut back of the students. The members of at Union College. President Hall on paper waste. the fraternity and their afwnni have noted that, \It is rny hope that now . decided to pay for a chapter room that the situation is resolved be- . that will occupy the space under tween the college and the ftater- . the new kitchen area. These nity everyone will recognize that it changes are to be completed be- was settled in a fair and reason- fore 1b.e start of the 1999-2000 able way with intentions of ben- school year. efiting the campus as a whole.\ Sigma Chi- Hosting Monday Night Football orWWF Weekly in Raymond House. Also hosting Jittsi Tournament this term Outing Club/Pai11tJlaU- Fall trips scheduled. Outing Club meets on ------------------------;· Saturdays _ Attention All Students Telecommunications w-ould like all students to be aware that dialing off- campus phone numbers only re;.. . qUlres 9 + 1 (area code) and the number. Students -who accidentally dial 9 + 1 and an additional! trigger crunpus security (911), 'Who then must come to your room regardless of the ~ocent mistake. Just be careful when phoning home. .. • • ~ 1, .c • .. We Care about USchenectady- New shed being built. Saturday · 9 AM til3 PM work in Hamilton Hill re-building housing. Meet at Old Chapel Circle to go for_ the day. Open to all. Lunch is provided. Programming Assistants/Stu- dent Activities- Thursday Sept. 17 1-4 PM Club Expo outside ofthe College Center tosign up for n clubs. Fri. Sept. 188-12 Mini Golf on Rugby Field Sept. 25-26 Homecoming Week- end - Oct. 9th Psychic Fair Old Chapel 8PM-12AM . Oct.l6-17Fal1Fest Oct. 16 Street Party in front of Old Chapel Oct. 17 Fonnal Oct. 17 Campus GolfToumey Freshman Elections Coming Up Finance Committee- All clubs need to talk to Mike Parisi form ore information if a representative was not atthemeeting on Sept. 11 Junior Class- Tailgate party dur- ing RPI football game. Pumpkin . Sale/ Mug Sale scheduled. Senior Class- Fund-raiser, Se- nior Gift Ideas, Hospital Pants Sale KA- Professor Poetry Readings in Nott upcoming Ceramics Club- Reorganizing Studio-new wheel- want increased programming in the arts dept. Idol- Always looking for submis- sions whether it be writing samples or artistic expressions Wells House- AIDS walk in Washington Park- Looking for par- ticipants Sophomore Class- Organizing and always looking for class input Concert Committee- Joint Pro- grams with Siena MTV Bonfire Tour Rusted Root at Sienna both have free transportation and re- ducedticket prices for Union Stu- dents Faculty Executive Comm.- More Fac and Student interactions-ideas needed and give more personal invites to faculty Pre-Health Soc- Freshman Ori- entation Sept 14 Pain Management Panel Meetings Thurs. 12:15 CC 205 Nov. Internship Wotks.Qop Pan-bel- Tentative meetings Tues.CC409 SHAKTI- Sept. 15 8:30 Multi- CUltunll Room CC306 Dhuljadi Fes- tival Oct. 24th . ·· · · \ ' , . . . Safe Space- Floor Preseqtations No Means NO Day Discussion and Speakers Mountebanks-Meetings Thurs. 5:30 Theater Green Room Open House Thurs Sept. 17 in theater Chemistry Club-ChemistJy Cri- sis Center Tuesdays and Thurs- . days 7-9 Jeopardy with faculty.up- coming, C.E.L.A.- Meeting$ are Thurs. 6:30 Strauss Lounge CC Looldng. to m~ny events Dance Team- Wed. Sept. 16th 1st Practice Spanish Club- lncreased num~ ber of movies this term Send-off dinner for Mexico's Winter Term Abroad Theme House Consort.- Sept. 19-23- Theme Hoose Week Nott Marathon-looking for club partici- pation Hospital Volunteer Club- Every Friday 3-7 at Albany Med U Care-Office 404 of the Col- lege Center Meetings Wednesdays at 7:30 Spring Community Day to benefit Schenectady youth Multi-Cultural Affairs- Look- ing to increase diversity of pro- gramming Increase Cultural Under- standing Coalition Starting with a variety of clubs on campus to work to achieve goals Student Forum- Monday Nights at 6:45PM CC409 all meet- ings are open to the entire student body unless noted otherwise NEXT OPEN FORUM IS MON- DAY OCTOBER 5 at 12:15. The place will be announced at a later date.

Page 6 · September 17, 1998 • Qlnn.cnrhlensh; Wo:ddNews The Devolution Of Morality by Adam-Paul Smolak World News Editor Within the last couple of months, the United States as the world's sole super-power has shown signs of instability and moral decay. Both implications give rise to the concern that children wm Jeam wrong values, thus creating a permanent change within the system of morality that society is based upon. first addressed the American public about the bombings by questioning the relevancy of performing raids and if the utilization of a military response attempt ofmotivating support for a political party. The moral character of the United States eJected officials becomes questionable and consequently, the system of government r---------_;_ ___ __,_..__, ceases to protect the interests This conduct thwmis the levef· ''The moral of individual citizens. of credibility that the United This change is apparent on a number of levels, and the implications corrode the internal and external stability of the nation. The moral standards that have played an intricate role in raising the nation's young, promoting international causes, and guiding indi-vidual decision-making have been de-valued and challenged. On a national level, the scandalous activities that President Clinton has admitted to have plagued the countt·y's moral character and have created a rippling effect into various areas of importance to the nation. On a moral level the admitted offense of several extramarita I affairs by tl1e President ofthe~United States, held by many as the leader of the free world, depicts a society that has lost respect for the institution of marriage and challenges the moral autJ:Jority within the nation. ·stateshasutilizedindemocracy decay Of both in- promotion and its role as a rule setter. Alsochallengedbythese SfifUtiOnS. Signi- acts is the institlltion of the UnitedStatesPresidency. After fies that SOCiety iS the initial charges of misconduct were rendered, President ineXtricably en- Clinton strongly affirmed his innocence. However. several tering an age ·Of months later PresidentC!inton's acknowledgement of' guilt moral deteriora- severely undermined his own credibility and character within tion that will the international and national commu.nity. This criticism effect fUtUre creates a voiEI in his political capital that is necessary for generations. \ passing policies and acting as a On a local level, the Un.i~ed States dealt with an issue of . morality in its judicial system. In Chicago, Illinois, two Afri- can-American boys, aged six and eight, were charged with killing and sexually assaulting a twelve year old girl. These charges,· which were later dismissed, raised several questions about the state of our nation and the amount of jus- tice within the legal system. The boys were initially thought to be witnesses, but after incon- sistencies appeared within. their statements, they were charged without the presence of a mediator on the world stage. guardian or legal counsel. l....---------------....1 In a nation that prides itself This lack of political capital led was used to divert attention away on justice, the fact that two ex- to questions about the President's from Clinton scandalous acts. Both tremely young children could be decision to bomb two countries: commentaries downplay and . read their Miranda rights and Sudan and Afghanistan. \'Understate the threat that terrorism charged with such a heinous crime Republican politicians Arlen has on the international sigRals trouble with the power of Specter of Pennsylvania (R) and community and devalue the law enforcement officials in~bus­ Richard G. Lugar of Indiana (R) concern for human life in the ing their issued authoritative po- Terrorist Acts Prompt Bombings Osama hin Laden forces U.S. to retaliate with hard-line military actions resulting in furtlter tltreats by Heather Clements St{lff Writer On August 7, 1998 the United States embassies in Kenya and Tanzania were bombed. Se-veral U.S. diplomats were killed and hundreds of ci-vilians were injured in the explosions. The United States quickly determined that the bombings were the result of Is- lamic terrorists sponsored by in- ternational terrorist financiet·, Osama bin Laden. Bin Laden is currently believed to be the leader of a $300 million Anti-American terrorist network in 19 countries in the Middle East and Northern Africa. The attack on the U.S. embas- sies abroad created shock waves domestically. President Clinton, already preoccupied with the Monica Lewinsky scaodal, was forced to refocus on foreign policy, especially how the US should respond to such acts of in- ternational terrorism. The United States retaliated on August20. bybombingseverallo- cations in Sudan and Afghanistan that were believed to be the cen- ters of terrorist planning or chemi- cal weapons production financed by Osama bin Laden. The Shifa pharmaceutical plant in Sudan was one such location be- I ieved to be a center of the production of nerve gas and other deadly biological and chemical weapons. President Clinton's decision to bomb ter- rorist outposts in Sudan and Afghani- stan was not without criticism at home. Reports in the Los Angeles Times and the Wall S1reet Jour- nal cited several in- telligence agents who believed thatthe U.S. attacks were politi- cally motivated and premature. President's Clinton focus and commitinentto foreign policy was also questioned. Althougl1 Secre- tary of State Madeleine Albright ' \. is l t.'t .•· . ~f -~~ . i·U L 1<~ : ·H ~~' f hours a day with no distractions,\ much skepticism arose .about Clinton's timing and political mo- tives. Although many Re- publicans praised 'Presi- dent Clinton's decision to retaliate for the em- bassy bombings, many questioned \Yhether or not Clinton would have the political credibility to continue to prevent global terrorism after the pressing Lewinsky scandal. Defense officials also had to explai1i the syncbroriy of the bombings on Sudan and Afghanistan with the impending release of the Starr Report, as well as, the similari- ties between Courtesv the lnteruet Bin Lade11 is believed to he tile leader of a $300 mil~ Former President Bush's security advisor was quoted in the New York Times as saying, \There's bound to be a significant foreign policy cost to (the, Clinton crisis) because tht: president, after all, is a human being. He can't give the kind of attention to foreign policy that is neces- sary:' lion Altti-American terrorist 11etwork in 19 countries i11 tlze Mitltl/e Ertst and Nortltem Africa. The threat of these Clinton's foreign policy and the popular movie, Wag the Dog. told the New York Times that, \We are occupied more than 24 terrorist actions mark the beginning of a new era of in-. security within the world. sitions. Citizens across the country im- mediately voiced their disgust and wantedto render an absolute pun- ishment ag<:~i11st the boys. This quick judgement. caused from re- lated instances ·or youth violence, displays a .loss of innocence amongst tbe youth ·of our nation. This case also motivated ques- tions regarding racial discrimina- tion. T11e two boys charged lived in a lower to mi<ildle c1Clss section ofChioagothat is prima~ily Afri~ call-American. Advocates f~r racial inequality expressedoLLtrage against the swift actions takeo by police and pros- ecutors and believed that in a white suburban aTeathe case wou.ld have been handled in a different man- ner. This complaint over racial clis- crimination represents the in- equalities and prejudices that pre- vent ottrsociety from becoming a nation of social Ullity. Thetw(l situations deal with the moral erosio11 of h1stitutions that. aetas intricate roles within Ameri- can society: aLLtluirity and justice. The moral decay of both institu- tions signifies that society is inex- tricably .entering an age of moral deterioration that will effectfutlll'e generati011s. Wo1 ~ ln t Time writte that VI· an II Lik' waso1 the ch produ wasg< the mi in dim 7 and ( a litth COn SCI andw1 they di societ' . dren. Mm': wasth read\ How c der to the san ing on Ar horribl eryday eve nil young raped i

World News Youths Charged Murder • In Raise Moral Concerns \. \ by Kristie Centi ContJ•ibuting Writer In the August 24 1 \ edition of Time magazine an at\ticle was written about two young boys tha1 were accused of murdering an 11 year old girl. Like numerous Americans I was Olltraged and devastated by the charges. How could parents produce such children? What was going on psychologically in them inds offhese boys? These ind iffererlt )'Otmg children ages 7 and eight who raped and killed a little girl, appare11tly had no conscious or sense betweenright and wrong. How could they? If they did what is happening to our society, or the future of our chil- dren. Moi~e disl1eattening however was the subtitle in this arti.cle, it read \'Is murder Child's play'?\ How could we compare a mm- der to child's play? As it were the same as jump roping or play- ing on the swings. Americans are exposed to horrible evils and hardships ev- eryday; The public watches the evening news to discover .a young black girl murdered and raped ln the bathtoom of a los Vegas casino, the dead mourned and buried in the terrorist attacks ofNaitobi and Dares Salaam, and the down fa]] of a president caught in the immoral act of sexual mis- conduct It appears that people have be- come so dese11sitized, that what was originally defined as wrong and i mmotaf somehow becomes justified. On the international stage this justification was de- picted by the terrorists in Africa who murdered innocent individu- als for religious purposes: Addltiona1ly. in Las Vegas the man wh0 killed the girl in the. bath- room had a best friend who sat back :and watched the act unfold, doing nothjngto prevent this mis- conduct. · Whe~ asked why he didn't de- fend the young child he com- mented \I wasn't the one doing anything wrong;' Moreover, we have a president that lies about his scandalous atTairs and claims that he did not have sexual relations with Monica Lewinsky. It is no wonder why we detine murder as ''child's play.\ Never- theless, the American public was to quiek to render final justice in the murder and rape of 11 year Rya11 HaJ-r.is. The young boys that were ac- cused of committing the murder and put under house arrest have been dismissed of all charges. The prosecutors dropped the charges against the two boys, cit- ing a crime labOI'atory report that confirmed semen on Harris's body. Police are now attempting to question two men in their mid 20's about their involvement in the· case. While this horrific crime qu.estions the morality of our society, the outco!ne which maintained the chHdren 's illno· cence gives us hope for the fu- ture of our youth. The couple of preteens and teenagers that do commit these horrid crimes do not define our culture. The ma- jority of children go to school, participate. i11 community events. love their parents and friends, and most importantly grow up to be moral and strong individuals. The youth of today are not vio- lent murders or rapists. All one has to do to realize this is to look out the window and see their \child's play.\ For the most pmi childl'en today are on the swings, playing hopscotch , and happily riding their bikes past our front lawns. · ' tlt.Dt:tctrdtiett:5is • September 17, 1998 • Page 7 Jeopardizing the Presidency Starr Report reveals criminal activity and sexual misconduct by Dan Kirsch Co~ttrihuting- Writer For 1nonths, the American people have been forced to peer into the private life of a man twice electeclto the highest pt~blic of- fice in the land. Usually, this situation leads to nothing but rhe discovery of a few pulled fire alarms as a teenager, or a fmtprank the participants are Hot even proud of. However, this time thesubjectofiHquir:y pertains to broken laws that warrant puni- tive punishment. Four years ago. Judge Kenneth Starr was appointed by a panel of three federaljudges to investigate allegecl criminal activities com- mitted by President Clinton. This occurred only after the Clinton Administration's Attorney Gen- eral Janet Reno requested an in- dependent counsel t<J investigate these alleged actions. Her request was unavoidable due to the plethora of allegations surround- ing the Presidenf at the infanc:y of his second term. During these investigations, a sexual harassment lawsuit was brought against President Clinton by a former Arkansas state worker. ln early 1<197. tl1e Presi- dent denied another allegation of sexual misconduct. With this al- legation, prosecutors established a pattern of misconduct. I11 order to maintain his innocence and in- tegrity, President Clinton relied on past improprieties committed by the plaintiffs office. The Presi- dent gave an outright denial of any improper relationship \Nith a 2 J -year-old intern. Furthermore. President Clinton persuaded the intern to provide a sworn deposi- tion denying the charges. These 'acts led to numerous charges of witness tampering, ob- struction of justice, and constitu- tional impropriety. Those allegations are the crux of the findings released in the Refenal to the U.S. House ofRep- resentatives (the Starr Report), a 445-page outline of blatant crimi- nal activity. This report will be followed by a coHgressional docu- ment that will be released on Sep- tember 28 with ::2,600 more pages that include further exploration into the issue of misconduct. Starr's repmt is fi1 led with prose that would make the drama or lan- guage majors shudder, as it is sharply accu.satory. scolding. and highly antagonistic. It includes blasting the president for spinning the investigation's true intent into scandalizing his private affairs. When the President addressed the nation a few weeks ago he did not cooperate with independent counsel Kenneth Starr. Moreover, Clinton utilizedlegaJjargon in his attempt of exonerating himself fi·om charges that C()tdd jeopar- dize his presidency. Subscribe to Qinncnrbitnsis for a Year! Keep Yourself Updated on the. Latest Union Events and News Simply Send a Check for $40 to . Concordiensis Box #2577 Union College Schenectady, NY 12308 Attn: Jenn or Email us at concordy@vu. union.edu and We Will Bill You

Page 8 • September 17,. 1998 \ C!Inutn:rhlensis Give Credit Where Credit Is Due Dean 's List students receive far less recognition for their achievements th.an desei'Ved Are Union (()l)ege students recognized as didactic achievers? If we do well in a game, scoring a goal-the team cheers and we win a tro- phy. Parents and friends thus encourage us to do just as well in the next game. If we get a good grade in college, acing a test or making the Dean's List, we skip the ceremony because they offern() trophies and get little, if any praise. (Mom and Dad do not count as praise givers once we are in the confines of the campus and Fall term be- gins). On September 8, in the Old Chapel, Union held its annual Convoca- tion honoring Dean's List Students and welcoming the hard workers hack to another successful year. As usual, the turnout was minimal. Many ofthe students who were named on the Dean's List did not even show up, despite the numerous letters sent home over tile summer months inviting them and congratulating them on their outstanding scholastic achievements. (Only families sawthe mail--and a few home- town friends if you're a showoff!) Even those who attended the Convocation were not aware that Dean's List Students arerecognized on the Co liege Center Wall, facing Dutch Hollow. But amidst the hustle and bustle of Reamer, few seemto have time to glance at the names of those who received a 3.35 GPAor above. This year, the editorial staff of Concordiensis decided to print a copy in the first issue, not only to congratulate those named, but also to encourage others to recognize that many people's friends or classmates are q:uite diligent and studious. Often, Concordiensispraisesastudent for their individual achievement; they may have won an award, scored a goal, or starred in a play. We dedicate entire news pages to photos ofconstructionon campus and Greek life phenomena. After searching through three years of old Union College newspapers, we found very few single pages allotted to academic accolades on the whole. The many students who made this year's List, who do not necessar- ily stand out by name or face, deserve public recognition as well. The students ofthe List deserve the utmost praise because they set a great example of what students should strive for each term. Though Conoordiensis printed a single page this year, we would be thrilled to print two or more, ifenough students desired toreac.b a little higller and work just a little more arduously. We also printed this with hope that all readers will glance at the names and realize how many intelligent people attend Uni<ln. If your name is nicely written in calligraphy- we congratulate you f()r a job well done. If it does not, we only hope that this showing is an inkling of incentive to make it next year. Every tenn counts. !he fact that this List is known to only the few whose names appear, makes us 'call into question the importance of such an achievement and other academic achievements as well. Perhaps we need to focus our attention on academics with as much fervor as we do on Sports and the like. Surely we need to emphasize the value of education, especially in our so-called institution of higher learning. If the administration makes a coalesced effort with studetlt organi- zation to highlight Deans list students as the prime exampies of cam- pus leaders, then and only then, do we deserve a place in the ranks of First Tier Schools. The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Sclrenectady 's Oldest Newspaper Stephanie Slobotkin -Michelle Tham EDJTORS-!N-CHIEF Jennifer Pelose EXECUTIVE EDITOR Eugene Schultz FEATURES EDITOR David Kay OPINIONS EDiTOR Brooke Barylick NEWS EDiTOR David Brooks Brian Terlinsky David Weiner SPORTS EDITORS Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Colleen Brown Debbie Pellish A &EEDITORS OP/ED Opinions ~ ~~-~1 .~~~ .·. .. pte,, 1 I 6€f if' fhey!J h~tneJ if ~.~ f.ht tfo6t~ f/vL~ Gnter 't:/ ·he done ~y how.' J~ Two Roads Diverged ... With our-return to Union we fmd ourselves, once again, immersed in the red-hot issue of Sophomore Rush. Thankfully, the summer has somewhat quelled the fire that heated this sensitive issue and ig- nited so many debates last year. It fmally seems that we will be able to confront the question in a calm, logical and levelheaded manner. However, before we rush to imple- ment any plans, it is imperative that we consider the realistic conse- quences of our decisions and all the possible paths before us. We are faced with the simple and obvious fact that a serious re- fonn of the Greek system is nec- ... essary. As our fellow academic institutions are learning, the twenty-frrst century will not be an era in which behavior that impedes the academic process will be tol- erated in any way. It should be evident to us all, Greeks, non- Greeks and faculty alike, that it is long past time for Union's Greek system to change and adapt to the times, In this light, the faculty's frUs- tration with the system and its \laundry list\ of complaints is, for the most part, fully justified. Oc- currences such as the substantial deterioration of a student's aca- demic performance or the inabil- ity of a pledging student to partici- pate in class are simply unaccept- able. There is no question that we need to do better, but is Sophomore Rush really the answer? Aaron Braunstein · David Meguerdichian PHOTO EDITORS Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Victoria Hargreaves Sloan Miller SCIENCE & TECH EDITOR Adam-Paul Smolak WORLD NEWS EDITOR Jaime Chandler Shana Dangelo COPY EDITOR Danielle Devine ADVERTISEMENT COORDINATOR Well, from a public relations standpoint, sephomore rush is a wonderful solution. It is a giant, blind reform that directly cuts back on the influence Greek houses will have on campus. By accepting it, President Hull has killed two birds with one stone by sating the fac- ulty and putting the needed pres- sure on the Greeks to shape up or face the consequences. Other schools have pushed their way through it, so hopefully we can all stand together and afterwaving the magic wand all our problems will disappear. But realistically, it is a poor compromise that addresses almost none -of the issues that are the roots of the .problems men- tioned above. Although it may lower the num- ber of students in the Greek sys- tem and enable students to make a more educated decision as to whether they want to join, simply forcing students to 'rush sopho- more year will not change the way the houses conduct themselves. Even if we adopt Sophomore Rush, tlie fac·Uity will still experi- ence the same problems that caused all the outrage in the frrst place, only now in sophomores who have a greater work load. The only way to stop hazing, alcohol abuse and the other immature prac- tices that occur within the walls of some of houses is to obtain a re- form that stems directly from the members of the system itself. This r~form would really ad- dress, point by point, all the con- cerns and items that the faculty originally cited. It would be a re- form which eliminates almost all the unnecessary and detrimental elements of pledging and yet al- lows for the tradition, privacy and organizational capability of the house to remain. With the threat of a possible Sophomore Rush driving them, the Greek commu- nity will certainly be able to pro- duce a plan that would be accepted by the faculty and administration. Coming from the fraternities and sororities themselves, it would be a real policy change that would be followed and ~illingly imple- mented without opposition. So, inthecomingterm, we must choose between two paths. We could try to forcefully implement a hastily conceived and irrational plan against the wishes of those who must abide by it. Or we could go forward together, listening logi- cally to each other, and try to bring about a massive cultural reform at Union .. Other schools have dealt withJhis same issue and most of them go through the same ordeal towards which we are currently headed. There is no reason why we, as an educated body of stu- dents, faculty and administrators, should not be able to find a better solution. I say we choose the road less traveled by and, hopefully, we can make a difference. Jonathan Zandman '99 PHOTOGRAPTIERS Paul D' Annibale, Rick Lederer, Sloan Miller, Cory Silken; Maura Woessner. ST1 FF- Matt Aron()witz, Kelen Rarr, Heather ('Jements, Ja;y C<>nnelly , Jim DeWan, Heath Fradkoff, Jon l:n<zPP!lU~~-J?ryVV<q~~q,J\1,~·diS;illiQ~iV~~111t~~:~~Y~~J}JI•~~ Gasthalter, Shaun Montana, Hillary Olk, Rory Stern, Jon Tapper, Ben Yaffee. I 0 H the tive Uni• Hen thot and befc my. awl the; \\i duri1 mad quir1 cam, hoUI tiom I ev( O.A. ishe< It hour Ar of an more amg cann• ing iJ ried? ing a papet I will end u Wl am I them' petiti' to qu

Page 8 · September 17, 1998 · Clron:r.or.Oie:usis Give Credit Where Credit Is Due De(ill 's list .students receiPe far le.\·s recognition for their achiel'entent!<J· than de:~erved \,_.1 :'liOn ('Pikge student'. recognized as didaL·tic achievers'.> If we Jp \'.ell in a t;amc. scoring a goal --the team c hcrrs and m: wm a tro- phy Pa:·,·nt~ and friends thus encourng.c us to do just as well in the next g<ure. IJWL' get a good grade in college, ncing a h:st or making the Dean's List, we skip the ceremony because they offer no trophies and get little, if any praise. (Mom and Dad do not count as praise givers once we are in the confines of the campus and Fall term be- gins). On September 8, in the Old Chapel, Union held its annual Convoca- tion honoring Dean's List Students and welcoming the hard workers back to another successful year. As usual, the turnout was minimal. Many ofthe students who were named on the Dean's List did not even show up, despite the numerous letters sellt home over the summer months inviting them and congratulating them on their outstanding scholastic achievements. (Only families saw the mail--and a few home- town friends ifyou're a showoff!) Even those who attended the Convocation were Hot aware that Dean's List Students are recognized on the College Center Wall, facing Dutch Hollow. But amidst the hustle and bustle ofReamer, few seem to have time to glance at the names of those who received a 3.35 GPA or above. This year, the editorial staff ofConcordiensis decided to print a copy in the first issue, not only to congratulate those named, but also to encourage others to recognize that many people's mends or classmates are quite diligent and studious. Often, Concordiensis praises a student for their individual achievement; they may have won an award, scored a goal, or starred in a play. We dedicate entire news pages to photos of construction on campus and Greek life phenomena. After searching through three years of old Union College newspapers, we found very few single pages allotted to academic accolades on the whole. The many students who made this year's List, who do not necessar- ily stand out by name or face, deserve public recognition as well. The students of the List deserve the utmost praise because they set a great example of what students should strive for each term. Though Concordiensis printed a single page this year, we would be thrilled to print two or more, if enough students des ired to reach a little higher and work just a little more arduously. We also printed this with hope that all readers will glance at the names and realize how many intelligent people attend Union. If your name is nicely written in calligraphy- we congratulate you for a job well done. I fit does not, we only hope that this showing is an inkling of incentive to make it next year. Every term counts. The fact that this List is known to only the few whose names appear, makes us call into question the importance of such an achievement and other academic achievements as well. Perhaps we need to focus our attention on academics with as much fervor as we do on Sports and the I ike. Surely we need to emphasize the value of education, especially in our so-called institution of higher learning. 1 f the administration makes a coalesced effort with student organi- zation to highlight Deans list students as the prime examples of cam- pus leaders, then and only then, do we deserve a place in the ranks of First Tier Schools. <!loncor.Oiensis The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Stephanie S1obotkin- Michelle Tham ED!lORS-1!\'-( 'I liEF . Jennifer Pelose f.:XEC 'UTIVE EIJTTOR Eugene Schultz FEA Tl.'Rf:'.) Fn/TOR David Kav ()f'/l\'lf).\'~· EDITCJR Brooke Barylick l\'EWS EDITOR ·------·----- David Brooks Brian Terlinsky David Weiner SPORTS EDITOR.)' Scott Scullion FACUI.TY ADVISOR Colleen Brown Debbie Pcllish A & £EDITORS OP/ED Opinions \ftfu11 1 l f:,q if the)'~ h~meJ if the!- f.W. ,tf\6G~ /lvLL- (enf-e-r it'd be done '-Y how/ \ 1 Two Roads Diverged. • • With our return to Union we find ourselves, once again, immersed in the red-hot issue of Sophomore Rush. Thankfully, the summer has somewhat quelled the fire that heated this sensitive issue and ig- nited so many debates last year. It finally seems that we will be able to confront the question in a calm, logical and levelheaded manner. However, before we rush to imple- ment any plans, it is imperative that we consider the realistic conse- quences of our decisions and all the possible paths before us. We are faced with the simple and obvious fact that a serious re- form of the Greek system is nee- . essary. As our fellow academic institutions are learning, the twenty-first century will not be an era in which behavior that impedes the academic process will be tol- erated in any way. It should be evident to us all, Greeks, non- Greeks and faculty alike, that it is long past time for Union's Greek system to change and adapt to the times. In this light, the faculty's frus- tration with the system and its \laundry list\ of complaints is, for the most part, fully justified. Oc- currences such as the substantial deterioration of a student's aca- demic performance or the inabil- ity of a pledging student to partici- pate in class are simply unaccept- able. There is no question that we need to do better, but is Sophomore Rush really the answer? Aaron Braunstein · David Meguerdichian PHOTO EDiTOR..) Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Victoria Hargreaves Sloan Miller SCIENCE & TECH EDITOR Adam-Paul Smolak WORLD NEWS EDITOR Jaime Chandler Shana Dangelo COPY EDITOR Danielle Devine ADVERTIS'EMENT COORDINATOR Well, from a public relations standpoint, sophomore rush is a wonderful solution. It is a giant, blind reform that directly cuts back on the influence Greek houses will have on campus. By accepting it, President Hull has killed two birds with one stone by sating the fac- ulty and putting the needed pres- sure on the Greeks to shape up or face the consequences. Other schools have pushed their way through it, so hopefully we can all stand together and after waving the magic wand all our problems will disappear. But realistically, it is a poor compromise that addresses almost none of the issues that are the roots of the problems men- tioned above. Although it may lower the num- ber of students in the Greek sys- tem and enable students to make a more educated decision as to whether they want to join, simply forcing students to rush sopho- more year will not change the way the houses conduct themselves. Even if we adopt Sophomore Rush, the faculty will still experi- ence the same problems that caused all the outrage in the first place, only now in sophomores who have a greater work load. The only way to stop hazing, alcohol abuse and the other immature prac- tices that occur within the walls of some of houses is to obtain a re- form that stems directly from the members of the system itself. This reform would really ad- dress, point by point, all the con- cerns and items that the faculty originally cited. It would be a re- fonn which eliminates almost all the mmecessary and detrimental elements of pledging and yet al- lows for the tradition, privacy and organizational capability of the house to remain. With the threat of a possible Sophomore Rush driving them, the Greek commu- nity will certainly be able to pro- duce a plan that would be accepted by the faculty and administration. Comiag from the fraternities and sororities themselves, it would be a real policy change that would be followed and willingly imple- mented without opposition . So, in the coming term, we must choose between two paths. We could try to forcefully implement a hastily conceived and irrational plan against the wishes of those who must abide by it. Or we could go forward together, listening logi- cally to each other, and try to bring about a massive cultural reform at Union. Other schools have dealt with this same issue and most of them go through the same ordeal towards which we are currently headed. There is no reason why we, as an educated body of stu- dents, faculty and administrators, should not be able to find a better solution. I say we choose the road less traveled by and, hopefully, we can make a difference. Jonathan Zandman '99 Letter Policy & Disclaimer Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP/ED page and must be received by 5 pm the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board . AU letters must be signed and saved on a high density disk, although the author's name need notappear in the newspaper, ifthe writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and of no one member in particular. Any opinion columns or cartoons reflect the opinions of the writers or artists, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Pf!070CRA !'/ 1/:R.\' J>a ul [)'Annibale, Rick Lederer, Sloan Miller, Cory Silken, Maura Woessner. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensls is printed by World Media, 1104 CentralAvenue,Albany,NY~ 12205. ST-1!-F Matt Aronowitz, Kelen Barr, Heather C\lements Jay Connelly, Jim DeWan, llcalh Fradkoff, Jon Gasthalhr, Shaun Montana, Hillary Olk, Rory Ster11, Jon Tapper, Ben Vaffee. ( > ( the tiv UFJ He thu an~ bef my a \'I the ' dur ma qUI can hot tior I e' O.J ish( I1 hot: A ofa1 mar am cam ing ried ing; papt I wi end Vv ami then petit to q1

OP/ED · · 0 • • ntons Summer Reading Joke by Lis Kidder Contributing Writer Hoping to start the year off on the right foot, and being a rela- tively diligent student, I took Union's request to read the novel Henry and Clara, seriously. Even though it was \senior summer,\ and all I wanted to do was relax before starting the next stage of my life, I sat down every once in a while and put effort into reading the 355 pages of the book. When we received the book during summer orientation, it was made very clear that we were re- quired to read the book before we came school in the fall, during an hour long talk about the \inspira• tional nature\ of Henry and Clara. I even received a letter from my O.A., reminding me to have ,it fm- ished. It is important to note that the hours spent reading Henry and Clara were not among the most interesting of my summer. Al- though the link to Union is clear (the main char·&cter attended. Union), the .signi:ficance to an up- coming freshman is ambiguous. It is almost completely unrelated to attending co liege for the first time. The chief problem with the sum- mer reading as.signment was its pointless nature. There was no rea- son to read the book {other than for the phenomenal ·rewards obtained from reaoing a work ofsuch obvi- ous literary merit). Henry and Cl(;ua is not a horribly painful book. It presents history ina mildly interesting manner. However, for students not taking the American History tract, it has little value. Sorne might jump on Paul Revere's patriotic horse and ride it around waving the flag, scream- ing, '~Read your American his- tory!\ But Union is a liberal arts college and part ofbeing a Hberal arts college means expanding the tninds of students. I was under the impression that part ofattendinga liberal arts college was doing the required reading. \YQudon'thave to read what we tell you to read,\ is probably not the best lesson to teach upcoming college students The \Henry and Clara Discus- sion\ during orientation was amus- ing. Tite professor leading my dis- cussion group, like the majority of students, had not even bothered to read the book. One O.A. told us that the book from last year was worse than the one this year. Union should either stop requir- ing sumrner reading for freshmen or select literary works that will be used in the upcoming year. Here's a brilliant thought: have upcoming freshmen read a novel that will be used in their preceptorial class. That way, they wouldn't be wast- ing their time on aJ55 page, point- less book. What Will I Do With My Life? by Adam Shebbitz Contrihutiltg Writer Anxiety. Yeah I feel a little bit of anxiety. Sure I'm only a sopho- more, but time never stops, and I am getting older as you all are. I cannot fathom what I will be do- ing in ten years. Will I be mar- ried? Will I have a l<.id? But be- ing a student, and a writer for the paper, my main concern is not who I will end up with, it is what I will end up doing. What are my interests, and what am I going to end up doing with them? You see, with a more com- petitive employment pool I begin to question my talents, and I am als() questioning my desire to study fo:r ther ofthose. Yet at the same time, I really want to be fi- job posi· tions that I don'tthink I even like. I'm sure like some . of you, I h a y e ratherbigh expecta-· tions of · ••Jlzope more than any tit ing I . wilt he.· lwppJ', hut1 am certlrin of one tltlng, tlwt time wilf gone on, titus an• sweriltg alf the answers to JT~V qumularies. \ nancially secure, and in a position that I am my own boss. I try not to compare myself to my parents, but they did raise me, and it is inevitable that · 1 use them, or refer to themas a ba.Fometer for my success; myself, but at the same time, I don't want to be caught doing something I don't want to be do- ing. I don't want to be studying to be an attorney or psychiatrist if I don't bave the passion to be ei- I am unsure ofhow I will end up, and I am anxious to fmd out. I hope more than any- thing I will be happy, but I am cer- tain of one thing, that time will gone on, thus answering all the answers to my quandaries. Sunday, September 27, 1998 1:00pm Washington Park, Albany Benefiting AIDS Service (Jr.ganizations in the Capital Region AIDS WALK 518-448-8991 Website: www.aidswalk-capitaLregion.org Sponsored by.: The Com r11unity AIDS Partnership of the Capital Region arnn:cnrhl~nsis • September 17, 199 8 · Page 9 \' ..... ~··.·\·· .· .. reHgion,'occu-· pa~~;P\·.e~~~~~t~~,~! t•r pbysic~l-descnpti()D. .}( ,~n~;~:. . ''• ' . ;;-... . . E-Mail Us Your Thoughts or Responses to This We~k~s Otlinions to concordy@vu.union.edu . . I . . .

OP/ED Opinions Summer Reading Joke by Lis Kidder Cont,ihuting Writer Hoping to start the year off on the right foot, and being a rela- tively diligent student, I took Union's request to read 1lhe novel Henry and Clara, seriously. Even thougfu it was \senior summer,\ and aU I wanted to do was relax before starting the next stage of my life, I sat down every once in a while and put effort into reading the 355 pages of the book. When we received the book during summer orientation, it was made very clear that we were re- quired to read the book before we came school in the fall, during an hour long talk about the \inspira- tional nature\ of Henry and Clara. I even received a letter from my O.A., reminding me to have it fin- ished. It is important to note that the hours spent 1:eading Henry and Clara were not among the most interestiNg of my summer. Al- though the link to Union is clear (the main character attended Un:ion), the significance to an up- coming freshman is ambiguous. It is almost completely unrelated to attending college for the frrst time. The chief problem with the sum- mer reading assignment was its pointless nature. There was no rea- son to read the book (other than for the phenomenal rewards obtained from reading a work of such obvi- ous literary merit). Henry and Clara is not a horribly painful book. It presents history in a mildly interesting ma1mer. However, for students .not taking the American History tract, it has little value. Some might jump on Paul Revere's patriotic horse and ride it around waving the flag, scream- ing, \Read your American his- tory!\ But Union is a liberal arts college and part of being a liberal arts coHege means expanding the minds of students. I was under the impression that part of attending a liberal arts college was doing the required readin.g. \You don't have to read what we tell you to read,\ is probably not the best lesson to teach upcoming college studeH>ts The \Henry and Clara Discus- sion\ during orientation was amus- ing. The professor leading my dis- cussion group, like the majority of students, had not even bothered to read the book. One O.A. told us that the book from last year was worse than the one this year. Union should either stop requir- ing summer readiNg for freshmen or select literary works that will be used in the upcoming year. Here's a brilliant thought: have upcoming freshmen read a novel that will be used in their preceptorial class. That way, they wouldn't be wast- mg their time on a 355 page, point- less book. What Will I Do With My Life? by Adam Shebbitz Contributing Writer Anxiety. Yeah I feel a little bit of anxiety. Sure I'm only a sopho- more, but lime never stops, and I am getting older as you all are. I cannot fathom what I will be do- ing in ten years. Will I be mar- ried? Will I have a kid? But be- ing a student, and a writer for the paper, my main concern is not who I will end up with, it is what I will end up doing. What are my interests, and what am I going to end up doing with them'/ You see, with a more com- petitive employment pool I begin to question my talents, and I am also questioning my desire to study for job posi- tions that I don'Uhink I even like. · I'm sure like some of you, I h a v e rather high e xpecta- tions of myself, but at the same time, I don't want to be caught doing something I don't want to be do- ing. I don't want to be studying to be an attorney or psychiatrist if I don't have the passion to be ei- ther of those. Yet at the same time, I really want to be fi- nancially secure, and in a position that I am my own boss. I try not to compare myself to my parents, but they did raise me, and it is inevitable that I use them, or refer to them as a barometer for my success. I am unsme of how I will end up, and I am anxious to fmd out. I hope more than any- thing I will be happy, but I am cer- tain of one thing, that time will gone on, thus answering all the answers to my quandaries. Sunday, September 2 7, 1998 1:00pm Washington Park, Albany Benefiting AIDS Service (Jr.ganizations in the Cap·ital Region AIDS WALK 518-448-8991 Website: www.aidswalk-capitalregion.org Sponsored by: The Comrnunity AIDS Partnership of the Capital Region C!Ioncnroimsis • September 17, 1998 · Page 9 _Sale ~pat,!e: \- Union Cqlf~'gC<?'s Own -Sexital·;l\ssault{A ware~ neSs and'S~f,r)~ft Group .. .,.4:'. . w·elcomes t~, class of . 2002 J To Union. College The Myths and Realities of Rape Myth: It could never happen to me. Myth: Most rapes occur as a spur of the moment act in a dark aney by a . stranger. ,/'. RealitY: AU women and men are poten- tial rape victims: Men and women of any age, race and class, religion, occu- pation, education, or physical description. Reality: Very often the offender is a relative, friend, or acquaintance of the ·victim. 80 .. 95% of all ra~es are committed by ~someon~ that the victim knows. ~ ···:>. <:·. .. Myth: Women are,.,, Reality:,No one asks· ''ashlngJor it\_ by ·. · to bebur(<ird~.~- .... . ( ::-· '- _,,; ,-~ ',~ - .. :.··· . ' __ .··_ . ._,. __ ··: ·. . .. · ~ ···- --~,:-'\.; .... :~ .. ; ·----_: ...... . their dress or ac~.,, ·. . graded, JU~t~~- ~0 i: · ~~~i . .-:ii~~;~~1;~~~Uf~l(~t,~~~ .. -·,... 'Y'·:·:·- :·,, ~r~:~tt.rrr~p.g::m()J1ey:: · · .. . . .· .. :. · ili?iil~ti!t 1 J,W5·~ket!,ltipe '\ .. ·. :. -~:·:T~~:~.~t~Jf~)~~~~·~~~·~i~j,ijty ·-\ · ·, · ,~ ·~rtlie:rallls1~·~n9fth.e Myth: Women se- ·· cretly want to get raped. ... -;=' -_ .• ---. -- _ ..• ': .. • '> ·:.·>:5. ·}-_. --.: victim.· ----v'> ,:;; ~~kiitYtWom: do not want to be vic- tims ofviolent, often brutal, terrorizing and·humiliating assaults any more than men do. Myth: Rape does not Reality: Rape has happen at Union.. occurred at Union. ':: ~-·M~il u~ Yo~~:~··~:hou~llt~··or Response's ·to·. This 'Week~s o·~.inions -~0· coucor~y@vti'. u~Jon.eau· -... ' ' . . . . . . . . . '·, . · .. ' . . . .. '., .. · ... - . . ' . . ' ' . . . :' . . ' . : . ' . . . :, ' '~

Page 10 • Qirquar.Meusis • September 17, 1998 Dean's List Congratulations to Union College's Dean's List Students ·Class of 1998 Meredith T. Albert Jennifer A Amann J ennifet A Angerosa PakhiArya Jay J. Balunas Julia G. Barton Michael A. Baskies Alexandra N. Beucheit Catherine Y. Bosiak Christopher J. Brantigan April M. Brockway Darcy E. Broughel Cara Mia Bruncatf Graham M. Bryce Heather L. Buanno Caitlin M. Calder Jennifer M. Canney Craig W. Champion William J. Chazey Joseph D. Chorna Arya B. Chowdhury Allison L. Ciolino Jessica M. Clement Liza S. Cohen Megan Collins JoEllen Cowger Suzanne N. Crandall Laurel W. Cronin Douglas L. Dakin Laura C. Dalzell Mark D. Davis Robert L. Davis Chirag V. Desai Umang A. Desai Amy DiBattista Joseph A. DiCesare- Debora L. Diemont Aaron E. Dietrich Lindsay Meredith Doling Robert E. Donaldson Gabriela A. Dory Colleen F. Dowd Stacy M. Drossman Michael H. Dussault Steven H. Epstein Allison M. Evans Laura A. Felton Richard W.Ferro Matthew L. Finkelstein Katherine A. Fleiss Amy F arrester Christina R. Foster Michael R. Frattarola Mark Friedman Sara E. Friedman DavidJ. Gasperack Lauren B. Gellis Craig M. Gibson Elizabeth C. Gilbert MichaelS. Gill Brian C. Gihnan Joel T. Glogowski Jason E. Goldberg Sara B. Gower Nicole M. Graham LauraN. Green Michael Greenbaum Kathryn A. Gross Keith A. Hamilton Michael J. Hamilton NaomiL. Harel Lamyaa E. Hassib Alissa R. Hennekens Jill B. Hirschenfang Brian J. Holland RachelN. Holzman Timothy R. Hotaling Orya C. Hyde ... Keller Brian H. Jaecker Amy M. Jasinski Michelle F. Jester Amy F. Kacala Jennifer E. Kalansky Brooke G. Kaminsky David J. Kanfer Meaghan R. Kanser LeahA.Karp Amy Kattapuram · OmarKefi · ChadM. Kimball Stacey R. Kimmel \Laurie M. Kirschner DavidM. Kline Anson V. Koehler Karen.L. Koller Stephanie S. Kuehn David A. Kunselman Danielle N. LaCrosse Daniel E. Laible JenniferL. LaM~:~gdelaine Anthony C. LaVecchia Carolyn E. Lavine Jamie T. Leahey Richard W. Lederer Sari A. Leivent Nicole A. Lembo Michael P. Lodge Deborah A. Loffredo Sarah M. Luczak Lecia Lynn Lupoli Adrian C. MacLean Elizabeth K Malaspina Aaron J. Mango Nicole Markman Tracy A. Marquis. Vladimir Martyniouk Sarah D. Matt Alissa M. Mayo JenniferL. McHugh Mary C. McKay Ryan M. McKinley Maria C. McLean TalatMeraj Peter A. Mody NicoleS. Moleux Elizabeth K. Mollo William F. Morris Christopher M. Moy Dana J. Murphy Borgit C. Olds Geoffrey J. Oravec Katherine A. Ott Lauren E. Pastor Ajay P. Pathak Jessica B. Pedersen Michael A. Perrino Jeremy Pflaum Jason A. Piraino Jennifer R. Plotnik Melissa L. Popiel Deborah Proper Aileen M. Quigley Sa vita Rathore Lynn M. Razzano Colleen A Reilly Gregory M. Reiser Leslie C. Rhein Amy B. Rossman Rachel S. Rothschild Rachelle C. Rourke Alison S. Rozbruch Joanna C. Rudolph Kathleen M. Ryan George Salimbas Sara K. Saltsman Laurel K. Salzman Erik C. Sanderson Matthew A. Sandler Jared S. Sandman Lisa Scherer Douglas M. Schneider Andrea M. Schulman JenniferR. Schwartz Bryan R. Serrell Courtney S. Seymour Oleg Shapiro Yaton Shashoua Daniel R. Sheppard Sara B. Shoreman Gregory Skalaski Erin E. Sll,lyth NoelleA. Somers Elise L. Spadaccini Julianna Spal1holz Debbie L. Spaulding Sarah H. Spaulding Stefanie L. Speanburg Angela L. Sullivan Margaret E. Sullivan Stacy L. Tamburrino Dawn L. Tessier Kerrie C. Thomas Risa Tolin AnnemarieTrier IGmP. iu FrederickA. Ulrich Marcel Vargas Monica G. Walsh Karen M. Watts Jessica A. Weaver PaulT. Wersten Elizabeth E. Wheat Matthew D. Winter Rebecca N. Wright Ming Sing Yeung Elis:abeth S. Zeche Class of 1999 Jessica-WindP. Abo}afia Sarah F. Ahart Ryan T. Almstead Caryn L. Anapolsky Mark Lee Anderson Nicole F. Andrews Katherine M. Anthony Barry M. Baker Soreile B. Berger Steven M. Borer Elaine V. Borja Lauren A. Brecher Shannon M. Briggs Brandy B. Bryden ,.. Kathleen A. Bugden Sarah E. Bmrnan Rachael B. Callahan John W. Carbone Peter M. Casola Deborah B. G. Cederbaum Euna A. Chung Megan E. Ciani. Cass A. Ciavarra Kate Cimini Nicole S. CiQne Charles E. Clark Loren E. Cole Margit S. Conopask Karena L. Cronin Michael F. DeMicco Frank C. DeLorenzo Willi~m R. Desrochers Adam E. Deutsch · Spass S. Dimiirov LinhD.Dinh Andrew G. Dorin Christine E. Douglas Melanie M. Douglass JamieP. DroW!J DanielJ. Duphily Robert A. Eden Barry M. Eisent?erg Marie K. Erickson Michelle F. Feingold Hilary M. Fitts Tracy L. Fogarty KellieJ. Forrestall Heath L. Fradkoff JoellenM. Gadomski Alison J. Galgay Jonathan A .. Gasthalter Heather M. Gennann Rachel Getty pmily F. Gewehr Umber M. Gold Brian S. Goldberg Dana J. Goldberg Ari R. Gottlieb Jessica A. Goveia Jennifer M. Graziosa Jeffrey T. Guptill LawrenceJ. Gutman Sarah L. Harsh. · Aaren Hatalsky Mary H. Hayes CarrieL. Heroth Jeffrey M. Hoerle Molly E. Hood Jennifer A. Jakubowski Amber F. Johnston Victoria L. Jones Manpreet K. Kalsi JanciL. Karp Jason M. Kellman Daniel J. Kelmanovich Kathleen M. Klemm LindaL.Lam Shannon J. Lawlor. Heather M. Leet 'Lauren M. Locke Kristopher J. Lovelett Brett A. Lussier Jeremy A. Lynch Katherine F. MacDowell Jodi B. Mace Orit A. Manham Thomas S. Marino Kurt W. Martel· Ewa Maryniak · · Dana L. Maselli Matthew J. Mauriello Kelly D. Marx Charity McManaman Sean- A Metrose Hugh A. Meyer Amanat A. Miglani ErikaA. Migliaccio Andrea A. Miller Raquel A. Millman Matthew J. Moddemo Michael Monarchi Shaun P. Montana Tara K. Marcone Evan L. Morris Emily B. Morse Robert J. Moser Jessica L. Moss Christine C. Myo Eric M. Nathanson Michelle D. Neier Alexander L. Panlilio Shyam M. Parkhie NipaV.Patel Matthew M. Pecorelli Robert M. Petrie Sara B. Place Bernice Polanco JohnR.Popp M;artiqua L. Post Sudheer Potluri Alison E. Prestia Jesse J. Prisco Hilary L. Prouty Colleen A. Quigley Robert D. Rapp Aaron R. Re.idy Autumn H. Renn Christina H. Rho Alissa B. Riba Shayna C. Roberts Charles W. Robertson Floren S. Robinson Wayne L. Roffer Jason M. Rosenstock YoavRoth Emilie A. Ruglis Jeremy D. Sack Elisabeth Sand- Freedman Randi N. Scherz Kelly A. Schrade Christine A. Schrader Sloane E. Schuster Rebecca Schwartz Rachel A. Sheriff Corinne G. Shiffinan Stephanie J. Shupe Marla B. Siegel Andrew J. Silverman Jeffrey R. Simard BUchardlSUnmnons Emily G. Simon Kristen B. Slawinski Stephanie A. Slobotkin Shalini Sood Jeremy P. ~piegel Sarah P. Sportman Kimberly R. Springer Lisa M. Stanek Erica L. Stechenberg ·Nathaniel Scott Stedman Jessica E. Stover Jennifer L. Stratton Kather~e M. Swanson BethL. Syat Elina Tabenshlak Candice T. Taylor Jennifer Trotts Edward L. Valachovic JohahnaA. VanDer Sterre Maria L. Vianna Spencer A. Wanderer Li-Hsin Wang LauienP. Waxman JillL. Weiner DanaM. Weinkranz BethA. Wierzbieniec MarkRWill Jonathan M. Y arkony AssafYosha Class of 20()0 Shannon E. Arthur Joseph Attanasio Rosalie K. Barr Brooke M. Barylick David C. Bernat Christina A. Biello Regan M. Buckley Rebecca C. Butterfield Heather H. Campbell Julia M. Chan Mindy A. Cohen .ChristaL. Cook Dtmcan C. Crary Mario.Cruz · Thinesh Dahanayake Stephanie E. Davis Emily A DeSantis James E. De Wan Alvertos Diamantopoulos Kendra B. Dwenger ·Joshua R. Elias Daniel Fiore Robert P. Fontaine Alyssa A. Forslund Richard J. Fox Michael W. Full~r Mary D. Furey Mary E. Garofolo Austin U. Gehret · Amy B. Gersten Julian E. Goldstein Deana M. Grattan Pamela M. Green Lori J. Greene Corey S. Greenhouse Bryan E. Groulx Sonia K. Gupta Scott D. Halla Richard L. Hart Courtney A. Hayden Crystal A. Hilton Melissa M. Horowitz Michael R. Iger Me lynda E. Ihrig Adam D. Jacobowitz . Kathryn A. Johnson Kristy A. Johnsson Jean..:Paul N. Jones IreneO. Kan Sarah E. Kanner Cori M. Kautz Breena L. Kennott Kimberly A. Kilby Ravikiran Korabathina Nancy A. Landsberg Ricardo A. Laremont Valerie Jean LeBlanc Kathryn A. Lyc;ms Puja R. Mahindra Lori B. Malinoski E:riRa M. Mancini Seville M. Meli Peter J. Melito Nicholas R. Meyer Henry J. Michtafik Michele Mosa · Sheny ;a. Moskowitz MichaelT. Mulligan Jeremy R. Newell Mary C. Nichols RQgerL Noyes Tara L. Noyes Maura C. O'Keefe Meghan K. o~Keefe Leah A. Oliveiri Deidre L Pahner Amy A. Pandya Benjamin E. Parker Aimp J. Patel Debra T. Pellish Lisa A. Pertoso Carrie L. Porter Alexandr.a M. Poyau Devaraj Pyn.e. Courtney L. Randall Marin E. Richardson Jennifer R. Roberts Kathleen C. Robins KimberlyA.· Rohback Sarah K. Rosen Erin M. Rosenberg BryanE.Roy Alissa M. Ryder VeronicaL. Sack Samuel J. Salamone Sameer A. Sayeed Renee A. Schaefer Elizabeth E. Schmitt Marisa S. Schneer Jared E. Schulman Jessica A. Sengenberger Julie S. Senreich Sonali H. Shah Wendy f. Shand Molly H. Shaner Sarah J. Shoemaker Stephanie A. Sienkiewicz Heidi S. Solomon RandiJ. Spiegel Sean R. Spindler-Ranta Nikhil Sudan Joanna C. Tai Naemmah S. Tan Jed I. faxel Michelle P. Tham Candice H. Tillman Nei!V. Vadecha Caley A. Vagianelis Denise J. VanK.empen Christopher C. Welch HarryK Welsh IanR. White Jaymee C. Wilson Austin P. Wingate Eric M. Wisotzky Erin Q. Wittes CeliaA. Wolfson. Zea M. Wright Peter 1. Zannitto Aimee C. Zullo. Class of 2001 Aakash Agarwala' Erin L. Aloan MahirAydin Cristina M. Baldassari Aaron R. Bell Siraj A. Bhadsavle Gillian M. Blake Erica J. Browne James D. Cahill Clare E. Canal Claire E. Cantwell Heather L. Clements N atasha J(. D'Souza Mal}iA. Daneshmand Christopher M. DelSavio David F. DeMase Scott M. bicks Randi H. Dupont DavidM. Epstein Jeffrey T. Fer:raro . Caroline E. Fink Erin L. Fitzpatrick Kemoy K. Foster Jody E. Frampton ·Alexis T. Franzese Alen Gershkovich Craig S. Gilmore Annette M. Grajny Amanda L. Graye Allison D. Grazia<)ei Pamela Grover Victoria V. Hargreaves Kathleen G. Healy · Thomas J. Higgins Rebecca J. Hotaling fennifer L. Huntington Melissa A. J ohflson Leah A:Kalfa:s TaraM. Kelly Mark R. Kostuk · Martha J. Kronhohn Paul A. La Crosse MaraV.Ladd Kathleen S. Larney Rachel A. Lawrence RyanS. Lee Olivia Leong Michelle C. Leung Carin Litani Ryan H. Mackey Jessica L. Mac Turk Set.h C. Madison Tania Magoon Danielle M. Marquis Jasori A. Matousek Marie Maurer SofiaMazo William G. Mcisaac Michelle A. McKinlay Jennifer E. Miller Sasrnita Misra Debra M. Montag JoanneP. Mumley KateM. Nero Julie M. Nettina Christy L. O'Leary David F. Ott . MiChael F. Panayotou Neeti B. Parikh Michael G. Parisi Nandini D. Patel Risheet R. Patel Nidhy S. Paulose Christina L. Pensiero Elizabeth L. Perry Anastasie Prokhorova Philip C. Provost Bella A. Prumo Katherine A. Reis Chloe M. Roumain Olabosipo Sawyerr Nicole C. Schallehn Matthew J. Schifano Julie A. Seymour Adam L. Shebitz .Maria Stamoulis Kathryn J. Stefanik Michelle J. Stein Louisa D. Stepbens · JenniferP. Tobin JonM. Tower Preeti Upac;lhya Michael K. Y oon Sofija E. Zagar ins Jessica B. Zuehlke A ,, ,'~ - ( ( ] ] • 1

Homecomi September 25·26 • ll .. . . un1onco ege ' • Fnday N tght - Concert-& Rally • Saturday- Football vs. Hobart rf1S-,.e6.··· w /Halftime Show e;t~ \$ ~1J Positions Available NoW! The Annual Giving Office is looking for qualified, energetic and dedicated students to call Union College alumni and parents to raise annual funds. Interviews will be held the week of October 1Oth. Desirable salary and bonuses. If you are interested in joining the Annual Giving Affiliates Team CALL NOW! Annual Giving Office- Fero House 388-6142 When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's tho level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon. Roylhe<>n has formed o naw technological superpower-· Raytheon Systems Company, composed of four mafor technological giants: Raytheon Electronic Systems, Roytheon !:-Systems, Raytheon Tl Systems and Hvghes Aircraft. The new Raytheon Systems Company is driving technology 1<> the limit. And we're looking for engineers who want 1a push the envelope. Break new ground. Make their mark. At Raytheon, you'll take lechnology-ond your career-to ihe highe&f po!'.sible level. You'll take it to the Nth. · We hove a lot to 1ell you about the new Royihoon Systems Company and the exciting opportvnities W<i> hove available. Plan on visiting our booth at your college career fair. If you am unable to oi1end the fair then <:hack out our website at www.royjobs.con1 and please send your resume to: Raytheon Resume Proces~ing Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, Dallas, TX 75266. ~~D~-~D~-~0~-~D~J ~ 'Twenty years from now you will be more d 0 disappointed by the things that you didn't 0 ~ ~ do than by the ones you did do. ,, I -Mark Twain I ~ Consider ~ D 0 ~ the ~ I Peace Corps I ~ ~ D 0 ~ ·-------------------------· ~ • I I I Information Meeting I I ~ September 18th ~ College Center- Room 409 0 12:00 p.m.- 1:00 p.m. D ~ ~ Information Table I September 18th I ~ ~ College Center Atrium D 10:00 a.m.-3:00p.m. 0 D ~ ·-----------·······-~···--· ~ I PeaceCorpsBQ0-424-8580, option 1 I ~ www.peace corps.gov ~ o~•~o~•~o~•~o~•~o

Instead of conco ·· topic for the first issue of Concordiensis I was busy work- ing insane hours, sleeping, and of course watching that wonderful American creation entitled, TV. And none of my Sl11l1Iner activi- ties spurred creative thoughts ei- ther. This lack of motivation changed, however, after I checked my mail. It's supposedtobe fun to get a letter. But Wh() reaily re- ceives letters anymore? I quickly found my joy turning to annoy- ance. I had been hit again hy the mis- representation of my mail. The envelope was white vvith a blue border that said urgent all around it. There was a yellow sticker too that proclaimed fmes andjail time if this letter was tampered with before it reached it frnal destina- tion, which of course was me. Over the address wind()W in big bold red letters the statement, \Personal and Collfidential.\ There was of course no refum ad- dress. By now .ny heart was pumping. I had no idea what this letter was about. Had I broken tlte law? Was I being drafted! Was S()mebody I knew dead? I starte<l' to breath quicker, my pulse p.icl<ed up, and I started to sweat. \VIlat was in thatenvelope!?! am able to deal with disappoint- As I turned the letter over, I was ment, this story is not done yet. greeted with more ominous state- This was the third letter that I Jon Tapper's Weekly Commentary ments. These read, \OFFICIAL had received since I had gotten to ter has a better chance of opening COMMUNICATION OPEN school, leading me to believe that by Jon Tapper sometime b.efore tlle new millen- AND RESPOND IMMEDI- I could buy a building with my Staff Wtiter nium than the Yan!Cees do ofwin- ATELY!\ That did it for me. It name on it here at Union. All ning the World Series. So stop was as they said, an \official com- three times I nearly shouted with wasting your time talking to me munication.\ Official from who? joy in the Campus Center. 1 was I can't believe that I had the about your team and enjoy watch- From where? Had I been drafted? a winner; 1 was rich beyond my whole summer to think ofa good ing them play while they are still While the rational pru1 of me kept dreams. 1 was going to get in the articletostartoffthe.yearwitb and around. trying to interject, saying that there game. And just like today I saw I still have nothing even half-de- Besides, all Yankee fans are ig,.. was no war to which I would be the small print, \If you have and cent to write. This might be a re- norant. drafted, I was still hesitant about return.\ sult of the fact that my summer This article wouldn't be com- opening this letter. Those five little words did me was uneventful. But that aside, plete without me complaining Then my curiosity got the. better in. I was not a winner (hey no you people have come to expect about this stupid lunch block. J of me, so I opened it. What did I snickering out there 1 mean in the quality articles every week out of said it before, I'm saying it now, see when I opened the letter? I saw contest, wiseass ). I had no money , me and it is my job to give it to and I can almost guarantee that I in huge type and in bold lettering: coming to me. All my dreams of you. will be saying it again, it's the most EUGENE D. SCHULTZ IS OUR living on a tropical island were Just a few observations .from the poorly thought out idea in the his- 1,666,675.00 WINNER. And sud~ dashed before 1 could even ex- first week and a halfof schooL I tory of this school. I want to eat denly I was the happiest person plore them further. I thought to love the atti- when I amhun- aliye. I was richJrich with more myself, \where is the justice in . tude of Union r-----..------------, gry. And when money than ... well more money this?\ students. I I am hungry, I than I had at the time anyway. How can they lead me on like overheard a clo not want to Then I started catching little details. this? I pay taxes, I vote, and I freshman tell- \JUSt a fiew b.ave to wait all The first thing that caught my eye want my money! How dare they ing his friends that much time was the little lettering above the do this three times in less that two that he needed 0 bservatio ns to get my food winn~r announcement. It read \If weeks. I was starting to get irra- a whole new that is not even you have and return the Grand tional. Hey leave it to me to get wardrobe be- fi th r~aUy worth Prize winning number, we'll an- worked up over nothing. cause everyone rom e waiting for in nounce .... \. I was shocked. I was So what did I do with that let- gets dressed up ji t k the first place. not rich, but rather conned again terclaimingthat I could be a win- for class here. lFS wee There is a into thinking that I was about to ~er? I filled it out and sent it in, What is line out the receive money. These people kept because hey Ijustmighthavet}le wrongwiththis and Q half cl.oor at West, playing with my head. And while I Grand Prize winning number. picture? We .there is a line ------------------------~--- 4 ~~~~a o~s~ooL'' ~~~~ Concordiensis Myths, Lies, and/or Fables . yearjustfor.the '.1 Upperclass, by Jason Everett Goldberg Editor-in-Chief Emeritus I have been summoned from the purgatory oflife known as law school to come up with a top ten list for this esteemed features sec- tion. How about Top 10 things that su**ed more :than graduation in the rain? Top 10 big_gest differ- ences between law Scbool and Union? Or the standard way to kill space in the Concordy: Top I 0 ways the administration is trying to stick it to the Greek system? Kinda been there, done tllat with this last one, and I am s11re there are plenty of articles 011 the cur- rent Greek crisis at Union, which I assume is in response to that mani- festo by the administration that I read on the Union homepage. I think I have a top 1 0 list that will satisfy my former co-editor (who is doing a GREAT JOB!) and who- ever is running the show in the fea- tures section. Although I think re- printing the Ken Starr would be the best way to fill space, and get people to read the paper, here is my contribution. Top Ten Biggest Myths About the Concordy IO.We answer to ourselves. 9. Concordiensis means \The Union\- \The Concordiensis\ is redundant thus the name change. 8.Joumalistic integrity is the norm. 7. The paper is the number one priority in the lives of the staff. 6.The opinions editor is politi- cally correct 5.Chris Leone still works here. 4.0ur advisor Scullion is not the man. 3.There are no Wells House residents on the staff. 2. That we do not have \in- terns\ (e.g. White House intern). 1. The Editors-in-Chief don't live out their terms (oh wait). This Isn't Ann Landers or Anything by Sloane, Ani, Li11dsay Contributing Writer$ Hey all you Union students out there! You're in luck this year because our \trio\ is here to give you the advice you need. We're here to deal with anything on your mind, so drop us a line?! Dear SAL, I'm a freshman girl witll a boy- friend who goes to University of Michigan. We've been together since I was fifteen and tbis is the first time that we have been apart for four years. Everyone tells me that long distance relationships don't work I've heard a few ru- mors that he has already met someone new and I am supposed to see him soon, What signs can I look for that he may be cheating and how can I make our relation- ship work? -Scared and confused Dear Scared and Confused, We were very happy to receive your letter and in the past, have dealt with similar issues. Of course every relationship is differ- ent, but the best advice we can give you is to occupy your time at Union with social and intellectual activities. We suggest you to al- ways keep the lines of communication open and be hon- est with each other. As for what to look for in signs of cheating; here are a few tips: 1. Did he bring a box of condoms to school even though you hadn't yet scheduled a visit? 2. When you speak to him late at night and he gets call waiting, is the waiting period longer than usual? 3. Do you speak to him when you wake up or has he always conveniently \stepped out\ early in the morning? 4. Has he mentioned needing \space\ in your relationship? (Space seems to always fore- shadow the end ... ) Unfortunately most high school relationships do not make it past the first semester, so make the most of your time here at Union. Use our advise column to you ad- vantage and we assure you com- plete confidentiality. Please send you questions to ??? Thanks again! -SAL privilege of at- there is a line tending class at ()Ut the door at a prestigious '-----------------J Dutch Hollow, academic institution like this and there is a line out the door at the we have to dress a certain way for Campus store, there is a line out class. the door at the Rathskeller, and The only advice I can give at Dutch-on-wheels is nowhere to be this point is do not conform. It is found. So I have just one ques- simply ridiculous to go out and tion for the morons who instituted blow a truckload of money on a this ingenious plan: Where the hell new wardrobe from a place like am I supposed to eat during my · Abercrombie & Fitch when you lunch hour? Maybe if I complain can be more comfortable in a long enough, I will earn myself a wifebeater and sweatpants. Be- VIP lunch pass to Roger Hull's sides, I know that I am at class to house? learn, not to impress some stuck If I am on a meal plan, I should up rich girl sitting next to me (no definitely not have to be paying for offense). food when I have a!Teady paid for Moving on, I loved the commit- food: that's my only point. I don't tee on sophomore rush 1 s solution have all day to simply wait around to the sophomore rush problem. for lunch. Correct me if I'm wrong, but On a personal note, I for one am wasn't their solution exactly the going to miss the writings ofDavid same as the faculty's proposal last Kay this term. Rumor has it that winter? his days as a respected writer are I'mprettysurethatitwas, only over. As much as it seemed at · they added the phrase \we need times that Mr. Kay and myself everyone's support\ or something were constantly at odds, we also to that effect. had a mutual respect for each So if we didn't like it last win- other's writing ability_ ter, why would we like it now - I for one will miss him and his only worded differently? Situa- weekly plugs for the public to read tions like this make me wonder if my article. I am the only one who wasn't born Well, that about does it for me yesterday. for this week's article. As always, I am sick and tired ofNew York I welcome opinions, questions, Yankee fans coming up to me ev- comments, constructive criticism, . eryday and telling me thatthe Bos- and suggestions on future articles. ton Red Sox are not going to make Drop me an email (I'm sure you the playoffs. guys can figure out my email ad- Not only are the Red Sox going dress) or drop me a note. to make the playoffs, they are go- If you want to contact me my ing to last longer in the playoffs mailbox# is 2037. Until nexttime, than the Yankees. The Olin Cen- stay out oftrouble. ( i ] j 1 j t ( 0 n d t<

Instead of concocting a great topic for the first issue of Concordiensis l was busy work- ing insane hours, sleepiHg, and of course watching that wonderful American creation entitled, TV. And none of my summer activi- ties sputTed creative thoughts ei- ther. This lack of motivation changed, however, after I checked my mail. It's supposed to be fun to get a Jetter. But who really re- ceives letters anymore? I quickly found my joy turning to annoy- ance. I had been hit again by the mis- representation of my mail. The envelope was white with a blue border that said urgent all around it. There was a yellow sticker too that proclaimed fines and jail time if this letter was tampered with before it reached it final destina- tion, which of course was me. Over the address window in big bold red letters the statement, \Personal and Confidential.' 1 There was of course no return ad- dress. By now .ny heart was pumping. I had no idea what this letter was about. Had I broken the law? Was I being drafted? Was somebody I knew dead? I started to breath quicker, my pulse picked up, and I started to sweat. What was in that envelope!?! As I turned the letter over, I was greeted with more ominous state- ments. These read, \OFFICIAL COMMUNICATION OPEN AND RESPOND IMMEDI- ATELY!\ That did it for me. It was as they said, an \official com- munication.\ Official from who? From where? Had I been drafted? While the rational pm1 of me kept trying to interject, saying that there was no war to which I would be drafted, I was still hesitant about opening this letter. Then my curiosity got the better of me, so I opened it. What did I see when I opened the Jetter? I saw in huge type and in bold lettering: EUGENE D. SCHULTZ IS OUR 1~666,675.00 WINNER. And sud- denly I was the happiest person aliye. I was rich,! rich with more money than ... well more money than I had at the time anyway. Then I started catching little details. The first thing that caught my eye was the little lettering above the winner announcement. It read \If you have and return the Grand Prize winning number, we'll an- nounce .... \. I was shocked. I was not rich, but rather conned again into thinking that I was about to receive money. These people kept playing with my head. And while I am able to deal wi,th disappoint- ment, this story is not done yet. This was the third letter that I Jon Tapper's Weekly Commentary had received since 1 had gotten to ter has a better chance of opening school, leading me to believe that by Jon Tapper sometime before the new mitlen- 1 could buy a building with my Staff Writer nium than the Yankees do of win- name oR it here at Union. All ntng the World Series. So stop three times I nearly shouted with wasting your time talking to me joy in the Campus Center. I was I can't believe that I had the about your team and enjoy watch- a winner; I was rich beyond my whole summer to think of a good ing them play while they are still dreams. I was going to get in the article to start off the year with and around. game. And just like today I saw I still have nothing even half-de- Besides, all Yankee fans are ig- the small print, \If you have and cent to write. This might be are- norant. return.\ suit of the fact that my summer This article wouldn't be com- Those five little words did me was uneventful. But that aside, plete without me complaining in. I was not a winner (hey no you people have come to expect about this stupid lunch block. I snickering out there I mean in the quality articles every week out of said it before, I'm saying it now, contest, wiseass ). I had no money me and it is my job to give it to and I c~n almost guarantee that I coming to me. All my dreams of you. will be saying it again, it's the most living on a tropical island were Just a few observations from the poorly thought out idea in the his- dashed before 1 could even ex- firstweekandahalfofschool. I tory ofthis school. I want to eat plore them further. I thought to love the atti- when I am hun- myself, \where is the justice in tude of Union .--------------____, gry. And when this?\ students. I I am hungry, I How can they lead me on like overheard a do not want to this? I pay taxes, I vote, and I freshman tell- , JUS/ Q fiew have to wait all want my money! How dare they ing his friends that much time do this three times in less that two that he needed 0 bs ervatio ns to get my food weeks. I was starting to get irra- a whole new that is not even tiona!. Hey leave it to me to get wardrobe be- fi h really worth worked up over nothing. cause everyone rom t e waiting for in So what did I do with that Jet- gets dressed up the first place. ter claiming that I could be a win- for class here. first Week There is a ner? I filled it out and sent it in, What is line out the because hey I just might have the wrong with this and Q half door at West, Grand Prize winning number. picture? We there is a line ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y$31,000a o~school'' ~~~oc~ Concordiensis Myths, Lies, and/or Fables ~;~i{~~:f~~t;t~ '.1 ~~!ei:c~a~~:~ by Jason Everett Goldberg Editor-in-Chief Emeritus I have been summoned from the purgatory oflife known as law school to come up with a top ten list for this esteemed features sec- tion. How about Top 10 things that su**ed more than graduation in the rain? Top I 0 biggest differ- ences between law School and Union? Or the standard way to kill space in the Concordy: Top l () ways the administration is trying to stick it to the Greek system? Kinda been there, done that with this last one, and I am sure there are plenty of articles on the cur- rent Greek crisis at Union, which I assume is in response to that mani- festo by the administration that I read on the Union homepage. I think I have a top I 0 list that will satisfy my former co-editor (who is doing a GREAT JOB!) and who- ever is running the show in the fea- tures section. Although I think re- printing the Ken Starr would be the best way to fill space, and get people to read the paper, here is my contribution. Top Ten Biggest Myths About the Concordy I 0. We answer to ourselves. 9. Concordiensis means \The Union\- \The Concordiensis\ is redundant thus the name change. 8.Journalistic integrity is the norm. 7. The paper is the number one priority in the lives of the staff. 6. The opinions editor is politi- cally correct. 5.Chris Leone still works here. 4.0ur advisor Scullion is not the man. 3. There are no Wells House residents on the staff. 2. That we do not have \in- terns\ (e.g. White House intern). I. The Editors-in-Chief don't live out their terms (oh wait). This Isn't Ann Landers or Anything by Sloane, Ani, Lindsay Contributing Writers Hey all you Union students out there! You're in luck this year because our \trio\ is here to give you the advice you need. We're here to deal with anything on your mind, so drop us a line?! Dear SAL, I'm a freshman girl with a boy- friend who goes to University of Michigan. We've been together since I was fifteen and this is the ,-. • • :. • : 1 ' I . I· t ' • I.., . '. ,, It' I .-t ,· • I t I' ; f I ·~ ! • '' ; •• , ., • • • •• ' ' I , ' I'' ' l' ; ., I l ' , , l • , , · l r l 1 4 • • I ' t·• • ~ ' \ ' ' • I ' f '• o f 1 o l I o ' I • I ~ ' \ ' f '• . .,,, .::: ' ' 'j j I look for that he may be cheating and how can I make our relation- ship work? -Scared and confused Dear Scared and Confused, We were very happy to receive your Jetter and in the past, have dealt with similar issues. Of course every relationship is differ- ent, but the best advice we can give you is to occupy your time at Union with social and intellectual activities. We suggest you to al- ways keep the lines of '' ''. ' ' ' ' .... ' ' .... ,!\. ••'· i !'. \I : i; ' \ ' ~ 1 • '-' 1!,,_;, ), , 1 • r, • •. t 1 1 •. J , :,q )' 'd lo-t l11 I), 1 •\ io-. •j.j,,'l\ ~ • I• 2. When you speak to him late at night and he gets call waiting, is the waiting period longer than usual? 3. Do you speak to him when you wake up or has he always conveniently \stepped out\ early in the morning? 4. Has he mentioned needing \space\ in your relationship? (Space seems to always fore - shadow the end ... ) Unfortunately most high school relationships do not make it past liiL j tl :\>( ,,CIIIC\>lt..:l. '>II llldi\C lliC lliU:•l ui .' ••UI llliiL It<..' II: dl l Jlllllll >c\ UUI .nh 1:0.\: ~1itlJIIIII lu yiiU ,aJ· \<llllclgC ,uaJ 'vi<..: ,l'o'>UI\: ~~~U LOIII- flldL LUIIiluCllll•ljtl). l\I<..'•I::OC .'><..'IILJ ) UU I.JUt::Ol!Ull:O. lu :'!: !It auk:. ag<1111: -~A L tending class at out the door at a prestigious '--------------~ Dutch Hollow, academic institution like this and there is a line out the door at the we have to dress a certain way for Campus store, there is a line out class. the door at the Rathskeller, and The only advice I can give at Dutch-on-wheels is nowhere to be this point is do not conform. It is found. So I have just one ques- simply ridiculous to go out and tion for the morons who instituted blow a truckload of money on a this ingenious plan: Where the hell new wardrobe from a place like am I suvposed to eat during my Abercrombie & Fitch when you lunch hour? Maybe if I complain can be more comfortable in a long enough, I will earn myself a wifebeater and sweatpants. Be- VIP lunch pass to Roger Hull's sides, I know that I am at class to house? learn, not to impress some stuck If I am on a meal plan, I should up rich girl sitting next to me (no definitely 110t have to be paying for offense). food wh-en I have already paid for Moving on, I loved the commit- food: that's my only point. I don't tee on sophomore rush's solution have all <lay to simply wait around to the sophomore rush problem. for lunch. Correct me if I'm wrong, but On a personal note, I for one am wasn't their solution exactly the goingto missthewritingsofDavid same as the faculty's proposal last Kay this; term. Rumor has it that winter? his days as a respected writer are I'm pretty sure that it was, only over. As much as it seemed at they added the phrase \we need times trnat Mr. Kay and myself everyone's support\ or something were coms.tantly at odds, we also to that effect. had a mutual respect for each So if we didn't like it last win- other's writing ability. ter, why would we like it now - I for ()ne will miss him and his only worded differently? Situa- weekly plugs for the public to read tions like this make me wonder if my articile. I am the only onewhowasn'tbom Well, that about does it for me yesterday. for this week's article. As always, I am sick and tired ofNew York I welcome opinions, questions, Yankee fans coming up to me ev- comments, constructive criticism, 0 ', ~ j', ~·· ! f 'li•:,• \i tl, \~ ~,,,, fl I, . •'' l~ ··,f <--~. ,\ .!': ~ ,• •, :,t' •, l ~·· :~ ~ '; r ~ 1·:- I ~ r . \;,,f ••r:J\ .II\' tli·: ~~~·,! <..:11\ :·\i:~:· ' - • .... , ~t . +~~. ;'! 1 > ~r ,,, : . .-· .. i:10::: :,, :I t ]\ ;:_:c:l :. :!L· ('f.t_\ d, 1'1 IlL· V:lnh·,.. Th·· nrn (\:r~ I' ' . '• ': ! '' ( I ' ' • • 'll .:...~ • ; ' . ',, .. '' . r ~. . I • 1 • • • : • n ~! ..._· · i r _. . 1 ·., i ; i . • •· • ~ f r l' , ·.., J l' r · ,J 1 1 'i' 11 1 ... • \ t : 1 1 11 -..· r l. . . ... , ! . , i , . . ! • :. t ,,

So here I am, at the beginning of my last year of college, and I am already a mess. I guess going into the 7 -year Medical program, I didn't realize the overwheltlling sense of loss I would ultimately feel for that one lost year of col- lege. It has been a rocky, but fun few years here. I cannot understand how this time could really be on the verge <>fending. l have walked through the cam- pus in snowy weather, on beauti- ful spring afternoons, and in the middle of the fall with leaves crackling against the bottoms of my shoes. I have lived the most exciting parts of iny 20-year old life on this catnpus. I have grown up here, grown into my skin and into myself. I don't think I know how to say goodbye to that. So, it has been strange to see the onslaught of new faces flooding the Campus. Last year I still knew the majority of people I ran into on a Saturday night. This past weekend left me feeling a bit old in my skin, filled with a strong sense oflonging for that freshness of my first year in college. I searched for familiar faces and found more strangers than friends. I felt old. It scared me. There is an overwhelming aura of confusion mixed with innocent discovery that makes freshmen stand out. I don't think I was re- ally able to discern that quality about them last year, maybe be· cause thet:e was a part of me that was still searching and innocent too. It is a sweet state to be in, so new to the world of independence, and so unaware ofthe implications that arrive with the looming threat of graduation. Freshmen have so much energy and every experience is a new one to them. I have game~ a sort of comforting familiarity in being here for three years, but along with that security I have grown weary and somewhat bored. There isn't much excitement for me within these campus walls. l have made my friends and found comfort in knowing them so well. I have found a way to study and organize my life. And to a certain extent, I have calmed down and shed some of my impetuous, melo- dramatic youth. So, are these bad things? Am 1 existing as a shell of a person, hol- lowed out by time and an excess of experience? No, I think that I have just learned so much about myself at this stage of my life and I am ready for the change that comes along with the next phase. Medical school looms ahead of me, a scary obstacle, but a much- by Michelle Tham Co-Editor-in-Chief needed new adventure. I am sure many of you are ing the strangeness of this cmmget Of growing into real adulthood walking away from the drunken asco of one-too-many tr .. 1r_....,,,h~ parties and the pettiness of.,u ... ~ • .., _~ foolishness. Superficialities of past no longer mean anything. is no longer about meeting the who lives next door or trying impress the girl who sits in of you in Freshman l:'re,ceoton Life has taken on an entirely ferent meaning. We have ---·~··..! found something of substance. I suppose that is what this is about for me, leaving behind insecurities and misguided of my youth. I look to the new dents and see blank pages, to be filled, written over, emseCJ and edited. In seeing their new oe~:mnmg:s~ I realize that I have my own beginnings as well and I realize it is time to let go. As scared as I may be to do I know that what lies ahead will even more exciting because it be something new, something ferent from the routine of being college student. A routine, that suppose I am no longer cut out although I have loved it and · it with all my breath and all heart. The New '98 Quiz to College Lingo by Sarah&Kate Contributing Writers 1. On Friday night, my roommate told me she was defmitely getting diddled .. Was she going to: A.)get drunk? B.)get dressed up? C.)get laid? 2.Kate screamed out across West Beach to her friend Maggie, \Are you mocking me out?\ Did Kate scream that because Maggie had previously been trying to: A.)insult her friend Kate? B.)get a ride to the mall? C. )get laid? 3. Ashley said in a perturbed tone to her friend in the lounge, \Put y~ur jimmies away!\ Are jimmies another term for: A.) smelly shoes? B.) sprinkles?· 4. As we walked down to a frat Wednesday night, we realized there were sketchy guys follow- ing us around. Were the guys: A.) really ugly? B.) really weird? ·C.) really horny? 5. Early Saturday morning, my roommate woke up and said, \I am so dead to the world!.\. Was the roommate: A.) really tired? B.) really hung over? C.) really out of it? D.) all-of the above Answers: 1. If you picked A, you are a good guesser, but you are WRONG! Believe it or not, there is a small percentage of Unions students who aren't total wastes. If you picked :S, you are abso- lutely correct, my little skitter .If you picked C, you are a damn pervert. 2. If you picked A, you are correct, amigo. If you picked B, why don't you get your lazy ass on a bus. If you picked C again, it's time to You are pathetic and probably are ones who stand outside our Richmond windows singing at 4 in the morning. 3. If you picked A, you are obviously not from Vennont. you picked B, you are correct and should also know that here in New York (which is where you are right now) we call them sprinkles. If you picked C, we now know you are defmitely people outside our window and we can recommend some great doctors to take care of your problem .. 4. If you picked A, you are wrong. If you picked B, you righty-0, buckeroo. If you picked C, you are the definition of sketchy and please stay away from Richmond. We JUst don't appreciate your singing ability. 5. The answer is D and if you didn't know that you must be a freshman. Well, now that you all know the proper lingo for Union College's campus, we want to hear your newfound knowledge put to good use. That does it for us for this week, but watch for us again every week in this same spot. Features Matty G's World. by Matt Gendron Contributing Writer come millionaires, or solve world hunger? And why is the Ameri- can Dream that we can grow up and live better lives than our par- I begin my column by saying to ents. Why do we study? To get a everyone, \Hey welcome back. better job. Better meaning, of How was your summer?\ course, better paying. Why better It is imposs-ible that you have not paying? So we can live a more heard this phrase unless: comfortable life. Why more com- A) You are a faculty member fortable? So in our 2.4 hours of who is out of touch with the stu- relaxing time every week we can dents here, but should be com- get a full week's worth of relax- mended for trying to use their ation in so we can be more pro- neWspaper as a window into their ductive in the next week. madness. Although I should end on that B) A freshman that is either note of depression and despair, I'm hungover or trying to explain to not going to because someone your parents why you took a field somewhere should say it. trip to this place called Ellis. President Hull. C) Live in Webster and thus Why do you and the trustees don't know anyone outside of continue on with the facade that Webster, and due to the fact that the students have some part in the you live in Webster have telepathic decisions made concerning what abilities connecting you to all other goes on within the gate that sepa- residents thus never needing to say rates Union from anything to each r-~---------, Schenectady. It's other... obvious that the D) Or you are \What I am trying to SAC* acts as a the most anti-so- say, for a second governing body cial person on this • only when you let h · h t1me in two years, is campus, w tc it. When Sopho~ deserves praise that if the students more Rush went because that • h to them 1 ·n the are go1ng to e would be one way _ spring and every to set yourself ignored, then just student on the apart from Joe tell us we have no board voted Abercrombie and against it (I as- J G sa\ in what tran- ane ap. J same, as they If you are still spires here.\ meet behind reading then you closed doors), you must not fit into had no intention any of the above of listening to groups, so you have heard the what they said, did you. My cyni- phrase before. A senior I have the cal side said that Sophomore Rush pleasure of knowing had a great was brought before the Trustees in remedy to this situation. Heath the spring so as to make the stu- Fradkoff made himself a sticker dents on the Board of Trustees that said \ my summer was great, seem like radicals when defending I did ...... thanks for asking\ and AD. put it on his chest. When asked I don't think that anyone even the obligatory question, he would considered you forming a commit- respond by pointing at the sticker. tee to go out and propose Sopho~ Well, enough of that subject. more rush in a neat five year pack- We've been back at school for a age. I'm not trying to defend the week [or for the OA 's out there, 2 Greek institutions on this campus, weeks. OA OA OA OA] and has they can do that for themselves. anyone really done anything pro- What I am trying to say, for a sec- ductive with their 170 hours? I've ond time in two years, is that if the been in the library every day. Then students are going to be ignored, I go to the gym to exercise, but is then just tell us we have no say in there really any point to all of it? what transpires here. Aren't we all just little rats getting If there is a way for the students trained for the big race we'll all be here to stop progress, then by all getting into in just a few years? means let us know. In the past, I have progressed up the ranks you said that 2000 signatures here at Union, and am now an up- wouldn't do it. Should we take a perclassman, yet I feel like the page from the Greek-dinning ser- same guy I was back in freshman vice fight of the early 90's? Or year. I have friends and even a fra- should we take our cues from the ternity, but at times I feel as if no Vietnamese monks that set them~ one out there has any idea whati'm selves on fire? If it would take a going through. student-monk setting himself on I question why we go through flre, then don't look to me. I'll be the motions every day and get the studying in the library for my math same answers. We exercise and class. eat right so we will live long and productive lives. Define produc- tive. Does that mean that we be- * SAC-Student Affairs Council. Made up by a majority of students. ......

So here I am, at the beginning of my last year of college, and I mn already a mess. I guess going into the 7-year Medical program, I didn't realize the overwhelming sense of loss I would ultimately feel for that one lost year of col- lege. It has been a rocky, but fun few years here. I cannot understand how this time could really be on the verge of ending. I have walked through the cam- pus in snowy weather, on beauti- ful spring afternoons, and in the middle of the fall with leaves crackling against the bottoms of my shoes. I have lived the most exciting parts of my 20-year old life on this campus. I have grown up here, grown into my skin and into myself. I don't think I know how to say goodbye to that. So, it has been strange to see the onslaught of new faces flooding the campus. Last year I still knew the majority of people I ran into on a Saturday night. This past weekend left me feeling a bit old in my skin, filled with a strong sense oflonging for that freshness of my first year in college. I searched for familiar faces and found more strangers than friends. I felt old. It scared me. There is an overwhelming aura of confusion mixed with innocent discovery that makes freshmen stand out. I don't think I was re- ally able to discern that quality about them last year, maybe be- cause there was a part of me that was still searching and innocent too. It is a sweet state to be in, so new to the world of independence, and so unaware ofthe implications that arrive with the looming threat of graduation. Fresllmen have so much eHergy and every experience is a new one to them. I have gained a sort of comforting familiarity in being here for three years, but along with that security I have grown weary and somewhat bored. There isn't much excitement for me within these campus walls. I have made my friends and found comfort in knowing them so well. I have found a way to study and organize my life. And to a certain extent, I have calmed down and shed some of my impetuous, melo- dramatic youth. So, are these bad things? Am I existing as a shell of a person, hol- lowed out by time and an excess of experience? No, I think that I have just learned so much about myself at this stage of my life and I am ready for the change that comes along with the next phase. Medical school looms ahead of me, a scary obstacle, but a much- by Michelle Tham Co-Editor-in-Chief I am sure many of you are fee ing the strangeness of this Of growing into real adulthood walking away from the drunken asco of one-too-many fratern parties and the pettiness of go foolishaess. Superficialities ofth past no longer mean anything. is no longer about meeting the bo who lives next door or trying impress the girl who sits in of you in Freshman Preceptoria Life has taken on an entirely di ferent meaning. We have final found something of substance. I suppose that is what this is about for me, leaving behind th insecllrities and misguided of my yoLith. I look to the new dents and see blank pages, to be filled, written over, and edited. ln seeing their new beginni I realize that I have my own beginnings as well and I realize it is time t<J let go. As scared as I may be to doth I know that what lies ahead will even more exciting because it wi be something new, something ferent from the routine of being college student. A routine, that suppose I am no longer cut out although I have loved it and li it with all my breath and all heart. The New '98 Quiz to College Lingo by Sarah&Kate Contributing Writers 1. On Friday night, my roommate told me she was definitely getting diddled. Was she going to: A.)get drunk? B.)get dressed up? C.)get laid? 2.Kate screamed out across West Beach to her friend Maggie, \Are you mocking me out?\ Did Kate scream that because Maggie had previously been trying to: A.)insult her friend Kate? B.)get a ride to the mall? C.)get laid? 3. Ashley said in a perturbed tone to her friend in the lounge, \Put your jimmies away!\ Are jimmies another term for: A.) smelly shoes? B.) sprinkles? c 4. As we walked down to a frat Wednesday night, we realized there were sketchy guys follow- ing us around. Were the guys: A.) really ugly? B.) really weird? C.) really horny? 5. Early Saturday morning, my roommate woke up and said, \I am so dead to the world!\. Was the roommate: A.) really tired? B.) really hung over? C.) really out of it? D.) all of the above Answers: I. If you picked A, you are a good guesser, but you are WRONG! Believe it or not, there is a small percentage of Unions students who aren't total wastes. If you picked B, you are abso- lutely correct, my little skitter .If you picked C, you are a damn pervert. 2. If you picked A, you are correct, amigo. If you picked B, why don't you get your lazy ass on a bus. If you picked C again, it's time to get some help. You are pathetic and probably are ones wllo stand outside our Richmond windows singing at 4 in the morning. 3. Ify<Ju picked A, you are obviously not from Vermont. you picked B, you are correct and should also know that here in New York (which is where you are right now) we call them sprinkles. If you picked C, we now lalow you are definitely th people outside our window and we can rec()mmend some great doctors to take care of your problem .. 4. Ifyou picked A, you are wrong. If you picked B, you righty-0, buckeroo. If you picked C, you are the definition of sketchy a.nd please stay away from Richmond. We just don't appreciate your singing ability. 5. The aiiswer is D and if you didn't kn()W that you must be a freshman. Well, .now that you all know the proper lingo for Union College's campus, we want to hear your newfound knowledge put to goo<l use. That does it for us for this week, but watch for us again every week in this Features M:atty G's World by Matt Gendron Contributing Writer comt: millionaires, <Jr solve world hunger? And why is the Ameri- can Dream that we can grow up and live better lives than our par- I begin my column by saying to ents. Why do we study? To get a everyone, \Hey welcome back. better job. Better meaning, of How was your summer?\ course, better paying. Why better It is impossible that you have not paying? So we can live a more heard this phrase unless: comfortable life. Why more com- A) You are a faculty member fortable? So in our 2.4 hours of who is out of touch with the stu- relaxing time every week we can dents here, but should be corn- get a full week's worth of relax- mended for trying to use their ation in so we can be more pro- newspaper as a window into their ductive in the next week. madness. Although I should end on that B) A freshman that is either note of depression and despair, I'm hungover or trying to explain to not going to because someone your parents why you took a field somewhere should say it. trip to this place called Ellis. President Hull. C) Live in Webster and thus Why do you and the trustees don't know anyone outside of continue on with the facade that Webster, and due to the fact that the students have some part in the you live in Webster have telepathic decisions made concerning what abilities connecting you to all other goes on with in the gate that sepa- residents thus never needing to say rates Union from anything to each Schenectady. It's other... obvious that the D) Or you are \What I am trying to SAC* acts as a the most anti-so- say, for a second governing body cia! person on this only when you let h . h time in two years, is campus, w rc it. When Sopho- deserves praise that if the students more Rush went because that • h to them 1 'n the are gotng to e would be one way spring and every to set yourself ignored, then just student on the apart from Joe tell us we have no board voted Abercrombie and against it (I as- J G say in what tran- ane ap. sume, as they If you are still spires here.\ meet behind reading then you closed doors), you must not fit into ....__ __________ _) had .no intention any of the above of I is ten ing to groups, so you have heard the what they said, did you. My cyni- phrase before. A senior I have the cal side said that Sophomore Rush pleasure of knowing had a great was brought before the Trustees in remedy to this situation. Heath the spring so as to make the stu- Fradkoff made himself a sticker dents on the Board of Trustees that said \ my summer was great, seem like radicals when defending I did ...... thanks for asking\ and AD. put it on his chest. When asked I don't think that anyone even the obligatory question, he would considered you forming a commit- respond by pointing at the sticker. tee to go out and propose Sopho- Well, enough of that subject. more rush in a neat five year pack- We've been back at school for a age. I'm not trying to defend the week [or for the OA 's out there, 2 Greek institutions on this campus, weeks. OA OA OA OA] and has they can do that for themselves. anyone really done anything pro- What I am trying to say, for a sec- ductive with their 170 hours? I've ond time in two years, is that if the been in the library every day. Then students are going to be ignored, I go to the gym to exercise, but is then just tell us we have no say in there really any point to all of it? what transpires here. Aren't we all just little rats getting I fthere is a way for the students trained for the big race we'll all be here to stop progress, then by all getting into in just a few years? means let us know. In the past, I have progressed up the ranks you said that 2000 signatures here at Union, and am now an up- wouldn't do it. Should we take a perclassman, yet I feel like the page from the Greek-dinning ser- same guy I was back in freshman vice fight of the early 90's? Or year. I have friends and even a fra- should we take our cues from the temity, but at times I feel as if no Vietnamese monks that set them- one out there has any idea what I'm selves on fire? If it would take a going through. student-monk setting himself oo I question why we go through fire, then don't look to me. I'll be the motions every day and get the studying in the library for my math same answers. We exercise and class. eat right so we will live long and productive lives. Define produc- tive. Does that mean that we be- >~= SAC -Student Affairs Council. Made up by a m2j ority of students.

Page 14• September 17, 1998 • C!I.on.cor~ie:nsis Science & Technolo DNA Fingerprinting by Victoria Hargreaves Science and Technology Editor It's in the stain on Monica Lewinsky's blue dress. It wiH help identify the dismembered bodies of the victims in the crash of Swissair Flight Ill. It is what you leave on a pen, a coffee mug, and keys. It has freed innocent men from jail who have been wrongly convicted of mur- der and rape. What is this seemingly ubiqui- tous substance? Formally known as deoxyribonucleic acid, DNA composes our genes and contains ourunique hereditary information. It can tell our eyes to be brown, our hair to be curly, and our face to be freckled. Each time a cell divides, an ex- act copy of our DNA is made and given to the new ,cell. Based on an individual's order of the code which makes up the DNA, experts can determine which person be- longs to which DNA. Because that exact copy is present in every cell in the body, evidence can take the form of skin, hair, saliva, semen, or other bodily fluids. While DNA testing is not the only form of genetic marker analy- sis, it has proven to be more effi- cient and more accurate than its predecessors such as the Lattes test, the absorption-elution test, and the absorption-inhibition test. Unlike DNA analysis, these tests gave a faulty result or they did not give a result at all because the ge- netic materia'! deteriorated. Independent counsel Kenneth Starr's recently-released report about the relationship bemeen the President and Lewinsky stated that the DNA in the s.emen on the dress she saved matched the President's DNA in a blood sample h.e pro- vided. Medical experts are currently analyzing the blood samples of family members of the victims of the Swissair Flight Ill to find cor- relations in the DNA sequencing of the victims arid that of the fam- ily members. After finding a body, pieces of skin, or bone, technicians take samples of evidence. 'These samples are sent to laboratories for DNA analysis. Because of the enormous amount of information gathered, the U.S. Department of Defense and new computer pro- grams will help carry out the DNA tests. New evidence by Australian fo- rensic scientists A. H. van Oorschot and Maxwell K. Jones suggests that DNA can lurk in dead skin cells that are shed when we touch objects such as doorknobs or when we shake hands. \It's not clear where the DNA that peo.ple shed cat~sally comes from,.\ van Oorschot said, \but there is some evidence that 'na- ked' DNA-DNA that has escaped from dying cells-can be on the skin.\ While th:is spe.cific tech- nique can help identify murderers, rapists, robbers, and drug traffick- ers, scientists fear that it can wrongly prove the innocent guilty as well. For example, if person A shakes hands with person B and then per- son B shoots someone with a gun, person A's DNA might be present on the gun that person B used. Although scientists do not com- pletely understand this technique, they believe that the amount of person A's DNA would be so fi- nite on the gun that it would be nearly undetectable. \DNA evidence, like fmgerprint evidence, offers prosecutors im- Computer Audio Systems Reach a New Level by Daniel Kelhmanovich Staff Writu The Sound Blaster Live was re- cently introduced to the computer market by Creative Labs. Creative Labs has had a reputa- tion for making quality sound cards for IBM compatible comput- ers. The Sound Blaster Live takes the sound quality of computers to a .new level. This new audio card incorpo- rates many features usually found in professional audio editing facili- ties. Sound Blaster Live includes 256 voices which allow for the si- multaneous playback of many in- struments providing a multi-lay- ered effect. Other features include having a digital 1/0 card that al- lows for output to high-end digi- tal equipment for optimal sound quality. A midi port is also provided so that midi instruments can easily be connected. A new feature found in this sound card is the ability to connect multiple speakers. The Sound Blaster Live is optimized for pro- viding 30 sound and therefore can provide a true surround sound exs perience when four speakers are used. The card also allows you to position different sounds within different parts <Jfthe four speaker or two speaker system. This enables the user to desig- nate which speakers will play a CD while still providing the digital sounds for playing a game like Unreal. The 3D sound improve- ments are makinggame play more realistic and providing more sound editing options to the novice PC user. For the sake of compatibility, Creative Labs has made this sound card for the PCI standard bus. This allows for more software and hard- ware manipulations and solves sr ne problems commonly caused while setting up similar cards on a standard !SA bus. The Sound Blaster Live comes bundled with a wide variety of software titles. These include an environmental editor which allows the user to change the way music sounds to simulate being in a mu- sic hall., Jive, playing disco, rock, and many other types on equalizer manipulations. Other software titles include having a guitar which can be played to simulate many different kinds of guitars, a program called parody parrot which listens to spo- ken commands, and a trial of the game Unreal which has been op- timized to work with this sound card. Coupling the Sound Blaster Live with a good set of speakers provides a true surround sound experience that is comparable to those found in movie theaters. This card makes games sound better, makes sounds seem more realistic, and provides the user with options commonly seen in ex- pensive audio editing equipment. The Sound Blaster Live or a com- patible card is aA excellent addi- tion to today's PC. portant new tools for the identifi- cation and apprehension of some of the most violent perpetrators, particularly in cases ofsexual as- sault,\ Janet Reno said. In addition to identifying the guilty, DNA testing is also help- ing to identify the innocent who have been wrongfully accused. As of June I996,.the Institute for Law and Justice identified 28 cases in which DNA analysis led to the exoneration of persons previously convicted of murder or rape. While only 28 people had been proven wrongfully accused by 1996, some people believe that hundreds of people sit behind bars because of the high costs involved in DNA analysis. DNA testing is opening a new realm of cases for the courtroom as well. Many states have created data bases of DNA information with which they compare evidence containing DNA from unsolved crimes. Several states have correctly matched these samples and pros- ecuted the criminals. Sources: http://dailynews.yahoo.com/ headlines .. .l?s=v/nm/l9980912/ pVclinton-19.html http://dailynews.yahoo.com/ head! ines ... ssair-crash-shattered- victims-2.html http://www .ncjrs.org/txtfiles/ dnaevid.txt http://www. usa today .com/life/ science/genetics/lsgO 12.htm Science & Techn<>logy ' : I \ .I

Advertisements • Study at Hebrew University's Rothberg lnterna~[oflal School • Participate in a multidisciplinary seminar that covers alf aspects of Israel-~ past and present-- taught by AU profe!)sor Dani.el Schydlowsky • Intern at Israeli institutions • Explore environmental issues . • Travel to Biblical sites • Take el.ective courses in an,y academic area, .including the pe·rtorming arts · • Eam credit for learning Hebrew Pi:oposedAUWorld·Capitals program to begin in spring 1999. ,l\pplicatkirl deadline for Spring 1999 is November t, 19.98. Call the· Wor.ld 'Capitaljs Program today at 202..;895-4911 or·outside of the Washington area at 1-800-424-2600 or e-mait travel@ametican.edu for addl- tionalinformatiolil and an appl1cati0n. ~~ AMERICAN UNIVERSITY ATTENTION FRESHMAN, UPPER-CLASS & FACULTY Have you noti<e<l F RED (mobile r~tail cart) is back? A E A u s A s T T D y c y H Offering breakfast, lunch·& snack food items Look for FRED Mooday tltru Friday BAM ~til3 PM at a location near you! ! ! ! ' .. , ' .. ··• 1998. p eration. T:he ME generation is that special group of people known as Mercer Employees. The place you want to work William t>l. Mercer, Incorpuratecl ;uh'ises clients on health care, pcnsic,ms, compens.Ltion, communication, and other key hurmn resmtrces issue.\>. You'll work on meaningful assignments, and your responsibility will increase as your experience does. No fir-111 in our business offers <t wider, range of services in a wider range of locati(Jns - which tramlates into tremendous opportunity for you. Career Opportunities We have opening~ for re-cent college graduates in everr region of the t·ountry. Here are a ft.:w d tht' majors we've hi1ed r.xemly: i\1-.ttll, Stanstics, Actuarial ScietKe, Finance, Computer Seit·nct', Economic~. (JtlJt:r Libe·ral A:rt.\ BtL~ine~s 3nd Conuuunie<ltiono;. Find out all abt)Ut us. Vi5it our website: www.wmmrrccr.com Visit with us at the CareC!r Fair on Thursday, September Z4tll. For more details, vi~il your Cart!er Services Office. An t'qual opportuniiy emrloyer. WILLIAMM. MERCER Whether you prefer Expressionism or Renaissance Art one thing that's not abstract is every student's (O.ncern for financing their education. With CollegeCard, your future is a work of art. caUegECard is a revolvi11g low int~rest loan with credit card convenience for educational purposes only. Plus, with eachtrar~sactionyou can earn points towards travel awards. To apply by phon~ call 8oo·367-2369. l£e SOUTHWE)T STUDENT SERVICES CORPORATION® a .A mmpm{it WPfOI'rllion WJJ S. ~~lt 5r~l ~a, I lib Fl~ur •111 pt~muriltg umss !\>lestl, Ancvna ~-'210 201'1 lG a!dlmlrit>ll hltp:IMWw.ISSI.com 15 Cott£.~ £~.AR..D···!~ '§_ ~~.~ Y,o~;~=~~~~!~' ~T!~.~~'rJ : . ..,._ ~~~ ~... , , ~t .,....,, ;..t.;.. - , 1. ~ .. <~

WHILE IN JAPAN .... by Debbie Pellish A&EEditor They went away and now we're here So be happy and give a cheer Our names are Colleen and Debbie And we're the temporary editors of A&E We'll write about music, art and shows Movies, restaurants and hey, who knows Maybe we'll write a fun and new Story that will feature you! While Lori and IGm play in Japan. Experiencing as much A&E as they can We are here to lend a hand To bring quality A&E news to Union's land So if you want something good to read Come toA&E and you can feed On entertainment at Union and abroad So you can enjoy a show and then ap- plaud!!! New editors Debbie Pel/ish and Colleen Brown with .friend and former Union student Sara Friedman AUDITIONS FOR ''Picasso at the Lapin Agile\ BY · STEVE MARTIN DIRECTED RY J!.ROF. W .. FINLAY FRIDAY 9/18, 7-lOpm - AND . SATURDAY 9/19, 12-3PM YULMAN THEATER PLEASE BRING A MINUTE OF MEMORIZED MATERIAL FROM A!ll\Y SOURCE. BE PREPARED TO READ FllOM THE SCRIPT WHICH IS ()N RESERVE. IN THE YvLMAN TliEATRE GREEN ROOM. SIGN UP FOR A SPitCIFIC AUDmON.- TIME IN THE LOBBY OF THE THEAT& Ladies and Gentle~en, Boys and Girls of All Ages, and the '·Occasional Albino Midget by DericHarrington Contributing Writer Well, well, well. To be honest, I don 'treally know what to taJk about in this c()lumn. I know it's sup- posed to have to do with Arts and Entertainment, so I'll try to focus . on that, First off, theater. There are go- ing to be auditi@ns for the theater department's production of . Picasso at the Lapin Agile by Steve Martin (yes, the comedian ... there.'s no ·fooling you), that are being held to- morrow and Satur- day. Try out, even if you've n e v e r done the- ater be- fore. I mean; who knows, you could be the next A r 1 Gottlieb! Seriously, though, the play is absolutely hilarious, For anyone that knows me, they know that I'm a very music oriented person. I'm always walking around in band's T-shirts. So, ifyou see anyone walking around campus wearing one heck of a lot of black clothing, and it appears to be a band T-shirt, say hi. I'm nice I swear. I know, it's a bit besides the point, so back onto the music. This week, my friend and I went down to Hartford to watch a Slayer/ Fear Factory concert. For those of you that don't know who either of those ban.ds are, don't stop read- ing this, and go to another section, open your mind. Anyway, for those of you that don't know who they are (I'm guessing about 9 5% of all of you), I'll tell you. (Aren't you relieved now'? No? Then go to the bath- room, relieve yourself, come back, and continue reading. I'll wait. .. Okay? Then lees proceed). Fear Factory is a band that re- ally defies lab~ls. Forthoseofyou that have to categorize things, they ,re a heavy metal band that sings ... not screams. They're sup- portingtheir album Ohsolet~ cur- rently, and it is one of my favorite five albums in existence. It'.s acon- cept album about the technologi- cal age we live in, and how in the future, mankind is obsolete; be- cause it isn't efficient for feelings toexjst I really don't have enough knowledge about Slayer to offer a fair ()pinion about them, so I' lljust tell you that they're a speed metal band tllat really kicks (uhh ... booty? Can I say the other word here? Why am I asking you, the reader? . Iinnlln ... I kine oflike tb:is innerthought thing 1 have going here. It's like I could say anything here, and once · 1 close the parentb:esis, everything is back to nonnal. Here, I'll prove itELVISISLIVINGINMYPANTS! N<Jw, back to my meaningless- ness, if that's a word) live. Upcom- ing in tbe music .area for me is a Soulfly concert at the same place · (webster theater in Hartford) on October 4. If you're into the heavier music, let me know,. I haven't bought tickets yet. Finally, I have some thoughts about professional wrestling. Those of you that lmow me know what I think of it, but those of you that <lo11't, let me share my opin- ions .. Ik:now it's staged, but guess what, some of the ,greatest things to people are staged as well. How many of you watched Seinfeld'? Guess what'? It's fake too~ Sorry to crush your dreams of running into George some day. Forme, wrestling is an art form of great magnitude. It's very much like watching acrobatics, a dance, and a boxing match all atthe same time~ Take some time out of your week, turn on Raw is War, don't be . so critical of everything you see, and you'll find yourself falling in love with it. Even better, stay up and catch ECW when that is on, and you 'Utrulyerase the word fake from the wrestling vocabulaty. Not because it isn't fake, it is fake, but because you'll be amazed at what the human body is ca- pable of. There's a side of us all that wants to see some- one hurt, someone bleed. It's why ER is so popu- lar, but when it comes tG wrestling, people imme- diately push it into a childish cat- egory. I welcome any and all com- ments to my E-mail address: harringd@idol. Don'tbe afraid to send comments, good or bad. \Open minds will dominate\ - Fear Factory. THE THEATER PROGRAM & MOUNTEBANKS INVITES YOU TO AN OPEN HOUSE THURSDAY, SEPT .17TH @ 4:30 PM IN THE YuLMAN THEATER LOBBY. HEAR THE SCHEDULE FOR THE '98-'99 SEASON! BRING YOUR FRIENDS **FIRST MOUNTEBANKS MEETING TO FOLLOW OPEN HOUSE!

Page 16 IIBTS& WHILE IN JAPAN .... by Debbie Pellish A&EEditor They went away and now we're here So be happy and give a cheer Our names are Colleen and Debbie And we're the temporary editors of A&E We '11 write about music, art and shows Movies, restaurants and hey, who knows Maybe we'll write a fun and new Story that will feature you! While Lori and Kim play in Japan Experiencing as much A&E as they can We are here to lend a hand To bring quality A&E news to Union's land So if you want something good to read Come to A&E and you can feed On entertainment at lJnion and abroad So you can enjoy a show and then ap- plaud!!! New editors Debbie Pel/ish and Colleen Brown with friend and former Union student Sora Friedman AUDITIONS FOR ''Picasso at the Lapin Agile\ BY STEVE MARTIN DIRECTED RY EROF. W .. FINLAY FRIDAY 9/18, 7-lOpm AND SATURDAY 9/19, 12-3PM YULMAN THEATER PLEASE BRING A MINUTE OF MEMORIZED MATERIAL FROM ANY SOURCE. BE PREPARED TO READ FROM THE SCRIPT WWCH IS ON RESERV~ IN THE YULMAN THEATRE GREEN ROOM. SIGN UP FOR A SPECIFIC AUDIDON TIME IN THE LOBBY OF THE THEA TIE. . September 17, 1998 Ladies and Gentlemen, Boys and Girls of All Ages, and the O·ccasional Albino Midget by Deric Harrington Contributing Writer We II, well, welt To be honest, I don't real;Jy know what to talk about in this column. I know it's sup- posed to have to do with Arts and Entertail'lffien.t, so I' II try to f()CUS on that. First off, theater. There are go- iHg to be auditions for the theater department's production of Picasso at the Lapin Agile by Steve Martin (yes, the comedian ... there's no fooling you), that are being held to- morrow and Satur- day. Try out, even if you've n e v e r done the- ater be- fore. I mean; who knows, you could be the next A r i Gottlieb! Seriously, though, the play is absolutely hilarious, For anyone that knows me, tluy know that I'm a very music oriented person. I'm always walking arollnd in band's T-shirts. So, if you see anyone walking around campus wearing one heck ()fa lot of b la.ck clothing, and it appears to be a band T-shirt, say hi. I'm nice 1 swear. I know, it's a bit besides the point, so back onto the music. This week, my friend and I went down to Hartford to watch a Slayer/ Fear Factory concert. For those of you that don't know who either of those bands are, don't stop rea.d- ing this, and go to another secti()n, open your mind. Anyway, for those of you tllat don't know who they are (I'm guessing about 95% of all of you), I' II tell you. (Aren't you relievecf now? No? Then go to the bath- room, relieve yourself, come back. and continue reading. I'll wait. .. Okay? Then let's proceed). Fear Factory is a band that re- aHy defies labels. For those of you that have t0 categorize things, they're a heavy metal band that sings ... not screams. They're sup- porting their album Obsolete cur- rently, and it is one of my favorite five albums in existence. It's a con- cept album about the technologi- cal age we live in, and how in the future, mankind is obsolete, be- cause it isn't efficient for feelings to exist. I really don't have enough knowledge about Slayer to offer a fair opinion abo lilt them, so I' 11 just tell you that they're a speed metal band that really kicks (uhh ... booty? Can I say the other word here? Why am I asking you, the reader? Hmmm ... I kind oflike this inner thought thing I have going here. It's like I could say anything here, and once I close the parenthesis, everything is back to normal. Here, I' II prove it EL VISISLMNG IN MY PANTS! Now, back to my meaningless- ness, if that's a word) live. Upcom- ing in the music area for me is a Soulfly concert at the same place (webster theater in Hartford) on October 4. If you're into the heavier music, let me know, I haven't bought tickets yet. Finally, I have some thoughts about professional wrestling. Those of you that know me know what I think of it, but those of you that don't, let me share my opin- ions. I know it's staged, but guess what, some of the greatest things to people are staged as well. How many of you watched Seinfeld? Guess what? It's fake too. Sorry to crush your dreams of running in1o George some day. For me, wrestling is an art form of great magnitude. It's very much like watching acrobatics, a dance, and a boxing match all at the same time. Take some time out of your week, turn on Raw is War, don't be so critical of everything you see, and you'll find yourself falling in love with it. Even better, stay up and catch ECW when that is on, and you' II truly erase the word fake from the wrestling vocabulary. Nat because it isn't fake, it is fake, but because you'll be amazed at what the human body is ca- pable of. There's a side of us all that wants to see some- one hurt, someone bleed. It's why ER is so popu- lar, but when it comes to wrestling, people imme- diately push it into a childish cat- egory. I welcome any and all com- ments to my E-mail address: harringd@idol . Don't be afraid to send comments, good or bad. \Open minds will dominate\ - Fear Factory. THE THEATER PROGRAM & MOUNTEBANKS INVITES YOU TO AN OPEN HOUSE THURSDAY, 8EPT.17TH@ 4:30 PM IN THE YULMAN THEATER LOBBY, HEAR THE SCHEDULE FOR THE '98-'99 SEASON! BRING YOUR FRIENDS **FIRST MOUNTEBANKS MEETING TO FOLLOW OPEN HOUSE!

Arts & Entertainment Cl!an.corbiensis • September 17, 1998 • Page 17 THE TANGLEWOOD EXPERIENCE by Portia Zwicker Staff Writer If you've neve·r been to Tanglewood, you're missing out on an incredible experience. Situated in Lenox, MA, Tanglewood is a concert haven. Summer horne of the Boston Sym- phony Orchestra, Tanglew0od fosters a concert hall, shed, and other performing areas, all wb.il'e providing fantastic views of the lush scenery. Perhaps the mostac- tive place at Tanglewood duringthe summer is the Shed. This past summer, I decided to go to three concerts at Tanglewood, the three featuring John Williams as conductor. For those ofyou who haven'theard of him, Williams composes scores for films, and is probably most famous for the music of many ofSteven Spielberg's films, such as Star Wars, E. T., Jaws, Schindler's List, etc. I've been a fan of his for sev- eral years now, and I fmally gotthe opportunity to see him in concert. The last concert I went to, on Au- gust 31\t was incredible. On the program was music by Williams himself, George Gerswhin, and a Frank Sinatra medley. I should mention that Williams was never heard it before, it was most picked up the microphone to ad~ took his violin down from. his defmitely a Williams piece. It em- dress the audience. In a few short shoulder, turned a peg, and started bodies all ofhis trademarks: the eel- words, he introduced the guest playing again. ebrated fifth interval, a .showy soloist, Joshua Belt Bell h$ a beau- I couldn't figure out whether it brass section, and of course, that tiful tone, and displayed it well was intentional or not, but after the adventurous quality. throughout the Gershwin medley. concert I got to meet him and Gershwin'sLullabyreplacedtbe The most impressive tune was asked what happened. next piece at the last minute. This Summertime, from Porgy & Bess. It turned out his violin suddenly piece is entirely for strings only, Bell managed to make his violin went out of tune, and he was forced and starts out very softly. sound like a human voice, filled to retune in within the time- space Using their r-~----------------------, of a few seconds. mutes, the cellos We talked a bit and basses start and then he out with the autographed my bass line; and program. then the violas: Next was a and violins medley in come in with the memory of Frank melody a few·· Sinatra. You measures later. could tell every Though a very performer was repetitive piece, ·. __ ~· . .., .. ) having a lot ~f the orchestra ( fun; Williams.was succeeded in ., ____ ..-- almost dancing, capturing the and the drummer audience's.atten- (on the drum set) tionbyfollowing was smiling like the dynamics he was having closely. the time of his The first half life. The great at- ofthe piece is a titude ofthe mu- very slow ere- sicians spread to scendo, and the ~ audience, subsequently, and every once the second half in a while we'd conducting the Boston Pops, not of the piece is a Autographed Schindler's List CD by Composer start clapping to the BSO, though the two groups slow deere- John Williams the beat. share many members. Also on the scendo. If played Finally, Will- program was Joshua Bell, a young, effecti~ely, as done by the Boston with that lazy feeling, sliding.his iams' E.T. was next. Ifanymember up-and-coming violinist. Pops, you don't even realize it has fmgers over the fingerboard. ofthe audience couldn't remember The concert started outwith one ended when it does. During a fast tricky part, how- the theme, he certainly recognized ofWilliams' pie.ces. 'fh<,mgh J:'had . , . As. he usually,.,do~s~ Willi~s . ev~r, Bell, in the flash of an eye, it as soon as it started. Listeners were immediately en- tranced, possibly remembering back to the first time they saw the movie. It was performed with no flaws, and was met with a tremen- dous roar of applause at the end. We thought that was it~ but Wi1- liams again took the microphone and announced that they would nextperfonn the theme from Indi- ana Jones. The crowd went wild, and didn't even quiet down to hear the first few notes of the brass and timpani. Again, the Boston Pops were amazing, catching every emo- tion of the piece. Finally, WiUiams led the orchestra in Stars and Stripes, every once in a wllile turn- ing to the audience t<J conduct them. I was very fortunate that night, because I was able to meet John Williams afterwards, by waiting by his car~ There were about eight or ten people waiting, and his driver made us promise we wouldn't swann him asking for autographs. We promised, knowing that even seeing him would be a once in a lifetime opportunity. But, he did come over, shake hands, sign au- tographs, and even get his picture taken with me. Later he signed my Schindler's List soundtrack, which was already signed by Itzhak Perlman, the soloist on the CD. That was probablythebestnight of my life, and I'm sure tllatmany of you would have a greattime also. Tanglewood is a wonderful place for music, the outdoors, at1d a great time. PHOTO PROCESSING' GOTO 'RITE-AID FOR YOUR PROCESSING NEEDS COME INTO MOTO PHOTO fOR SUPER ~AVINGS! VALUABLE CERTIFICATE $1.000ff One Hour Processilig Present. this· cenif!Cate with your next 6hn. pr~mg o~; md ~ $1.00 off. your developing and printing. Olfer valid ·only at_t~is st~ fQ~ 30 days from date . shown below. may not be combined with any other coupdn'()roffer. C..fl £ull frame print film only. Good for m.site processing only. ~eD1f -1~ 1 Stale Sreet · ~~110 ·

Arts & Entertainment OO:onc:uri)ixn:tsis • September 17, 1998 • Page 17 THE TANGLEWOOD EXPERIENCE by Portia Zwicker Staff Writer If you've never been to Tanglewood, you're missing out on an incredible experience. Situated in Lenox, MA, Tanglewood is a conceit haven. Summer home of the Boston Sym- phony Orchestra, Tanglewood fosters a concert hall, shed, and other performing areas, all while providing fantastic views of the lush scenery. Perhaps the most ac- tive place at Tanglewood during the summer is the Shed. This past summer, I decided to go to three concerts at Tanglewood, the three featuring John Williams as conductor. For those ofyou who haven't heard of him, Williams composes scores for films, and is probably most famous for the music of many of Steven Spielberg's films, such as Star Wars, E. T., Jaws, Schindler's List, etc. I've been a fan of his for sev- eral years now, and I finally got the opportunity to see him in concert. The last concert I went to, on Au- gust 31 5 \ was incredible. On the program was music by Williams himself, George Gerswhin, and a Frank Sinatra medley. I should mention that Williams was conducting the Boston Pops, not the BSO, though the two groups share many members. Also on the program was Joshua Bell, a young, up-and-coming violinist. The concert started out with one of Williams' pieces. Though I had never heard it before, it was most picked up the microphone to ad- took llis violin down from. his defmitely a Williams piece. It em- dress the audience. In a few short shouldcer, turned a peg, and started bodies all ofhis trademarks: the eel- words, he i.ntroduced the guest playing again. ebrated fifth interval, a showy soloist, Joshua Bell. Bell has a beau- I couldn't figure out whether it brass section, and of course, that ti ful tone, and displayed it well was intentional or not, but after the adventurous quality. throughout the Gershwin medley. concert I got to meet him and Gershwin'sLullabyreplacedthe The most impressive tune was asked vthat happened. next piece at the last minute. This Summertime, from Porgy & Bess. It turned out hi~ violin sudd~·nly piece is entirely for strings only, Bell managed to make his violin went out of tune, and he was furceJ and starts out very softly. sound like a human voice, filled to rcti.lllt: in within the time space Using their ..-----------------------~ of a fcv.; seconds. mutes, the cellos We talb:d a bit and basses start and then he out with the autographed my bass line, and program. then the violas Next was a and violins medley in come in with the memory of Frank melody a few Sinatra. You measures later. could tell every Though a very performer was repetitive piece, (' \') having a lot of the orchestra fun; Williams was succeeded in ... almost dancing, capturing the and the drummer audience's atten- (on the drum set) tion by following was smiling like the dynamics he was having closely. the time of his The first half life. The great at- ofthe piece is a titude of the mu- very slow ere- sicians spread to scendo, and the ·audience, subsequently, and every once the second half in a while we'd of the piece is a Autographed Schindler's List CD by Composer start clapping to slow deere- John Williams the beat. scendo. Ifplayed Finally, Will- effectively, as done by the Boston with that lazy feeling, sliding. his iams' E. r. was next. If any member Pops, you don't even realize it has fingers over the fingerboard. ofthe audience couldn't remember ended when it does. During a fast tricky part, how- the theme, he certainly recognized As he usually does, Williams ever, Bell, in the flash of an eye, it as soon as it started. Listeners were immediately en- tranced, possibly remembering back to the first time they saw the movie. It was performed \\ith no flaws. and was met with a tremen- dous roar of applause at thl! end We thought that was it. bur \\'il- liams again touk thl.! rni.:rophune: and announ.:ed that the:- \\ ould next pcrfonn tht: theme from indi- ana Jones. The crowd W~.!rH wild, and didn't eVL'f1 qukt down to h•:;.tr thL' first t-.:w nott:s of th..: brass anJ timpani. Again, the Boston Pop~ were amazing, catching every ~.!mo­ tion of the piece. Finally, Williams led the orchestra in Stars and Stripes, every once in a while turn- ing to the audience to conduct them. I was very fortunate that night, because I was able to meet John Williams afterwards, by waiting by his car. There were about eight or ten people waiting, and his driver made us promise we wouldn't swarm him asking for autographs. We promised, knowing that even seeing him would be a once in a lifetime opportunity. But, he did come over, shake hands, sign au- tographs, and even get his picture taken with me. Later he signed my Schindler's List soundtrack, which was already signed by Itzhak Perlman, the soloist on the CD. That was probably the best night of my life, and I'm sure that many of you would have a great time also. Tanglewood is a wonderful place for music, the outdoors, and a great time. RilE-AID PHOTO PROCESSING GOTO RITE-AID COMt INTO MOlO ~HOlO fOR ~UPtR ~AVINGSI FOR YOUR PROCESSING NEEDS VALUABLE CERTIFICATE $1.000ff One Hour Processing Present this ce:tilkate with your next film processmg order, and .recem $1.00 off your developing and printmg. Offer valid only at this store fQr 30 days from date shown helow. may not be combined with any other coup{;n' or offer. C-i 1 full frame print film only. Good for on.site processing only. Vallleof~$---- &nen~ -1M19ffie Srool· J~l-OITO ...

\= • - / Page 18 •September 17, 1998 • C!I.~.n:rcltri:ti:ertsis •;.':\'' 'l\'~ '1\'•'•''1•'' • •,• I•:C 'J:.' •:t ;;:; ' ·:: .. ~ ~ :~ ·: ~: ~ ~ ~ !::! ~ * ; ~ .: ~ '~ UNION COLlEGE Olreer Development Centrr CDC Updates ... Sept. 17: INTERVIEWING FROM THE RECRUITER'S PERSPECTIVE •How to prepare for interviewing, by a professional recruiter. •Prerequisite for Recruiting Contract and for mock interviews. 7 pm~CCAud. Sept. 18: Peace Corps Rep, will be in the CC Atrium 10am- 3pm. Discussion of their programs at 12 noon in CC 409. :Special Drop .. In Hours: Mon: & Tues. 1-5, Wed. and Friday 9-5pm for resume critiques. Sept. 22: \How to Get the Most Out of the Career Festival'' 7pm CDC. Attend this workshop to learn what to wear, what to say, who to meet, etc. at the Career Festival. Please sign up in advance in the CDC. Sept 23: ''HI)w to Get the l'v1ost but of the Career Festival\ 4pm CDC. NSBE/SHPE Career Festival Reception 7:30pm, CC 3rd Floor Lounge. Informal opportunity to meet with some of the Career Festival Representatives. All invited. Sept 24: CAREER FESTIVAL 12-4 pm. Field House •Open to all students: meet with a wide range of employers and graduate schools. Sept 25: Resume Drop deadline for many companies partici- pating in fall term recruiting. Completed contract required. Check w; out at www.union.edu/careet•/CDC/CDC.html .. A-dvertisements Study in Spain & uba .The :Center .. for ·ii~:fi.'t:!':iu~,·~·ii'·' 1 ' 1 Cross\' Cultural Seville, Spa-in Study Your school's program i_n Sp~1in. Contact: Dr. Wi II iam Thomas Terms Abroad thomasw@gar.union.cdu Union College . • Semt'ster, Academic _Year, Janu:.:rry, & Summer tenns \ • Counes ;lt all levels taught in Spanish ' Snnll dasses • College credit • • Financial aid • Hou1cstay'i • 1Iltcrnships • Fidd trips • email • Havana, Cuba \Vjnter & Summer tenm • 3 week,-4-<.:redit course in English or Spanish -· ... '- ' . : . .·. ' . . . . . Call for catalog .md fFee video 1-800 .. 3 77-2621 cccs@crocker .l'om http:/ /www.cccs.corn Ali Srudents, Don't- Afiss rhe Annual .... Career Festival '98! Thursday:~ SepLernber 24t-h~ 12-4 prn Union Field House: Rain or Shine Participating Emploxers Participating Schools An<.lcrscn c::onsulting Approach Inc. Cm:nbridgc Tccb.uology Partners DIS Research, Ltd. DMR Consultira,g Group .Enterprise Rent-A-Car Equis Experian J')irect T~chnplogy General I.:>ynarn.ic.~ - E1ect.J-ic Boat l\:>ivision General Electri~ - Corporalc Benefit&~ Delivery Greenwich Technology Partners · Hevvitt Associates Hipotronics · lloechst Marion Roussel IBM JaiD.es Martin & <:o. John I Ian cock Mutual LiCe Kaplan .EducatioilH.l Ccntca Key Bank Lo-ckheed 1\llarlir:t./Knoll.s Atomic Power Logic Technology Mei:n-orial Sloan- Kettering (~ancer ('enter Vforgan Stanley I>c:u:. Witter '-Tc......, Yo•·k Lin~ lnsurancc 'lorthwcstca-n MutlJall,ifc '\TYS Asscsnbly Intcm CoiTI.IT.littec '\TYS I>cp.aruncut <~ f 'l'rai)spo•·tat ion Pri ccwaterhuu .seC~oopers ::)uad/Ciraph ics .~ayt.hcon Elcctr<>nic S ystcms Albany Lavv School Boston College Law School Boston l..l.niversit.y SchO<..'ll or Law Brooklyn I ..aw Scho<.'}l Columbia University Teachers College Marist. College New England School of Law New York Chiropractic College New York College or Podiatric Medicine New Ynrk Law School New York lJnivcrsity School of\ !Vlcdjcinc NorUaeastem tJniversity School ot- Bus. Admin. (')bio Nortllern. '( Jnivet'sity C~ollege or f ...... 1-VV Pace l.Jni versity School of' I -avv R.cnsselacr at Hartford Rensse'laer- Language, I Jit.erature, aru:I C~onununication Rensselaer lvfBA Program Roge.r Willi.,·uns l..Jniversity S-chool o·c I .aw SL John Fisher College ;SufTolk tJnivc.rsity J-aw School SUNY Albany School of Business SUNY Albany School o1 Puhlic AtTain; SUNY Albany School ot\ Social Wclf~rre Syr~icusc { Jniversity School of At·chitecture Tcn1ple l.Jnivcrsity School of Law '!'he c-:oncge ot· Saint Ro:-;;c Ciraduatc Progntrns \The Sage Colleges \Jburo Law C..\:enter l.Jnion College Educalional St.udies ~an<.Js Brot11crs & Cv .• l~td. I'bc Princeton Review I\ho1nson Financial Services rrus teo Bank Union <..:.:ollege Graduate Ma.na,gc.rnc•l.t Institute l..Jni vcrsity oC n utTalo School of M~uutgen1ei'lt l.Jni veri .sty of C..~ on necti<.~u t Sc:houl ur Law • ../';, ~... l.Jnivcrsity ot· L>ayton School of· Law ~'~ <.1\ -<to_ Washington & Lee School ot· La'\\' rumer C~onstruction Corn.pru1y _J.S. Air Porce J. S. JV1;:u·ines Corps. Officew· Selection J.S. Navy <)fl'icer Programs OfCice Ncstinghousc (MAC)) N'iilia.nl M. Mercer <erox Cnrpons.tion ~4-C>~ :e- 0~ Western New England CoHe~·~c~~:_.~:::=~;-~' • A..-. ~.s\ -:u>\~ ~ Widener lJniversity School or Law -G;_,..F. • • ~ e:;..__....-<.£; ;\.O\\S e,l':S '~~El' Q.q_.,~ e~~.o_.A..p,..... ~o~e e~~C\_u.-:3-\--e ...Jb-6 ~_,.... ,j,.. • a~~~ an-a- ~ ....,..o-6 a~ ,, ~-,:e :\. • ~ • c.\-'oo~s ~e \\.\3-S S .. 0,. \\.. \:v· Be Prepared: ~-o.'b ·~·u:\.e- · • Dress neatly, in. business atrire ifpossibl<!.. ~-,.. • Bring s~~veral copies ofyour resu;ne. . Check for further updates ar: 1-Vl-Vw.union.edu/career/CDC./lJNION/COE.CF.h.trr/.l ' i i'

j i i' Advertisement$ fttnm:orbh~n~is; • September 17, 1998 • Page 19 ' ' ·uNION. , •·. '· .. · '.· .· ' ' ; . . . J I : . . . . . . . . . . .. nrrr .··. · ·· · · The following employees get a big l'HANf< YOU for making a.siftto U11ion in the 1997-1998 year! Orin J.. 1\datns James C. Adrian, Jr. (C) Kelly A. Agtlero •(AC) r:rederick H. Alford Cheryl A. A ltuow Janet S. Ande £son Donald F. Arr~oJd, Sr. (AG) John j. Audi11:o (C) f~obert B. B~ker (C) Dcbr~ K. BalHet (AG} Julius B. Ba:rhanel (C) Jennifer A. Behrens 1 86 Martin Benj.arnin Stephen M, Jerk Theodore A .. Bick t58 (AC} Sheridan Bigg~q Elisabe.th M .. B:ischoff.Ormsbee Di~u1e T. ~l;~ke R. J\l:m Hmvnmn J\a rhara C. Bc.,yer f()hn F. Boyer {C} Diane L. Bri:;nehan t\nn. J71eming nrown Clifford W. :Brown l'eter \VI. Brown t83 (C) Alison B. B-ru~t Kathleen Ruddey (C) Mary Ellen BLtrt Gec1rge M. Rtttterstein Mary E. Cahill (C) Mary K. CuroU Mahcny ~86 Anne J\1. Cattier Cl.lartes K. Casey Joyce E. Chah<>t . foanne E. Christensen Robert J. C~n1rie {C) Stella Conne-lly Rruce Connolly (AC) . Linda E. Cool (AC) David V. Co:5s;ey Lawrence W .. Cottrell Daniel Cnrra11 George A. Ctlttita Jos.<!ph E. f)t<owski (C) Hrian E. Df'lf Knthleen T. DeLorenzo Patricia Dicktrn1an Knapp Gail Donaldson · Faye E. Dudden (AC) \Vi11iam W. F!lirchild DominiCk F. Famufare '92 Judith A. Ferradino Joseph G. Finocchiaro Brhln J. FJahive Robert Fleischer Adrian W. Frazier R. Michaela. French Harold 0. Fried .(C) Michelle D .. Fulton Carl J. George (A C) Kristine Gcrnert·Dott •86 A~hraf Ghaly (C) Theodore GilmAn Thora C. Girke George Gmelch Gail Gnldennan Marie C. Gmuinietlo David G. Hannay Dnvid ~1. I lttyr:a Peter D. Heinegg Thomas R. Heisinger Joanne M. Herrick jack R. llog-1c Martha LX Huggins {AC) · Leslie A. Hull Roger H. Hull Eliza heth A. Hunt Hugh Jenkins Thomas K. Jewell (AC) Roset Khosropour .J. D. Klein {C} Ma1ribeth Krupczak James Lambrinos Chrisrine LaPlante Susan Lehrman (C) Bradley G. Lewis jan K. Ludwig (AC} Daniel M. Lundquist Elias S. Majlaton Seyfollai1 MaJeki (AC} Joseph L Mammol~ Judy Manchester William J. Marek (C) Alice R. Marnccn Harry ·P. Marten (C) Amanda V. M~son . janet l'I. Mattis · Kathleen McCann G'95(AC) Then:se McC.·uty (AC) ~ Annual & Capital giving (C) = Ca p1ta1 giving . Jasnes D. Me;Cor~ Nancy J. McCullfJtJgh Sharon D. McCdllr>ugh George R. McMilla11 Gcra:Jdine Mead Richard W. Mkl:<us; Frank Mi f:illo Diana R. Mirabi,~e Cara. fvlolyneaux: (i\C) Robert J. Monta11a Llldlle A. Morictrty jane K. Morse Doreen M. Murray Kathleen A. Natol~ Diane L. Nebolit~i Kathleen M. Nc~e;ll Byron A. Nich()ls (AC} Rrthert M. Ollle'l {C) !1:lwn M. P:uisi t?? (1\C) Hyungji Park Susan D. FascaziCl {AC) Katherine Pasco Saiima Pasha (C) Richard A. Pati~rlle Linda E. Pa trik {ACJ Elizabeth Pauf Judith A. Peck {C) net~y S. Phelps '9~ A. G. Philip I 51 Linnea A. Pntter Kathryn L. Quinn Bruce L Reyno1 d!i Karen Rie('k .P;~u~ Rieschkk ~74 ~AC) Lorelei A. Rodrig;tr( Meredith L. Rose:r '96 l.oren T. Rudnsk i RichardS. Sttkala (C) Jtll L. Salvo William M. Scanl~n ( AC) Margaret H. Sch~!ller G'71(AC} Josef Schmee G' 7{} (C) Stephen J. Schmidt Constance Sdunitt ]( atblcen J. Schtuick Anne C. Schwonn <I wen A. Setlie (.A. C) Druce J. Se1'n J.Richard 511anel)rook (AC) Robert S. Sharlet David C. Shear '90 .Rhonda Sheehan Jean K. Sheviak (AC) Pamela Simmons Jeane Sinnenberg '81 John K. Skumurski George \Y/. Smith Phillip D. Snow (C) Virgini:1 Solomon Christina E. Sorum John It, Sowa Lance 0. SpaUholz '69 Debra E. Sta]ker Ruth M. Stevenson (AC) Scott St(Jw-ell H crbert M. Strong Margo Sttn~berg Marti11 A. Strnshr1·~ '6R (AC) I [tfary Tann {C) · Patricia' Tappa (C) ·Alan D. Taylor Mary lhackcray (C) William W. Thomas (ACJ Ann M. Thomas (AC} S. Darryl Tigglc '90 Peter L Tobie!;sen (AC) Joanne Tobiessen (AC) Marilyn J. Tummasone Nadia 1'\por Cherrk~ A. Traver (C) Barham E. T ricozzi Gretchen D. Tur~1cr ,98 (AC} James E. Underwood (AC) Victoria C. Wain (C) Anton R. Warde '64 (AC) Terry S. Weiner (C) Thoma5 C. Werner (AC) Dan C. West Ka thlee11 M .. Wharton Frank E. Wicks G,66 Carol Widmer Richard ll WHk George H. WHiiams ,64 (AC) Patricia. G. William~ Dwighr S. Wolf '68 Jane. S. Zacek (C) K11thleen Zayicek joseph P. Zulner t76 Your participation truly makes a difference! -

Assistant Hockey Coach Replaces Stan.Moore Moore Returns to Colgate as Sneddon moves into #1 Position at Union Continued from page 1 University. He has officially ac- cepted an opening for an assistant coach position, working once again under long time friend and mentor, Don Vaughan. With the announcement of Moore's exit from Union College, each member of the Skating Dutch., men team, including the new re- cruits, were personally called by last year's assistant coach Kevin Sneddon. Sneddon gave few de- tails of Moore's reasons for leav- ing, since he too was unaware of Moore's unexpected decision. The atlethic department did not hesitate and was quick to declare Assistant Coach Sneddon the new head coach ofthe Skating Dutch- men for his long experience and dedication to Union College. At 27 years of age, Sneddon will take on the job as the youngest coach in theECAC. In his two-yeat career here at Union, Moore was 24-23-7. After a massive transitional season last year, with 12 new recruits, Union ended with a recordof6~22-4, leav- ing them in last place in the ECAC. Moore gave no specific reasons for resigning, but speculations tended to lean towards his disap- proval of Union's athletic policies of not offering scholarships or pref- erential packages to players. Frustration .and hostility were ru- mored to be lingering between Moore and the college's adminis- tration, since most of the Dutchmen's opponents consist of players that are given some type of athletic scholarship or preferen- tial packaging. A few days before leaving Union, Moore had expressed his feelings to Athletic Director Sakala, con- cerning his future here at Union. \Stan had comE: into talk to me ex- pressing his pe.rsonal concerns working at Union College and said www.union.edu Stan Moere leaves Union after two years he was reviewing his options about returning to Co1gatesince there was an open position for an assistant coach,\ Sakala said. \I was disappointed when I heard he had made the decision to leave Union. During the two years he was here, Stan was a great person who knew the game of hockey well and was always respectetl by all of the players. He took this job at Union knowing the parameters of our leagt1e and the policies our athletic department follows. I think ·having Kevin Sneddon as our new head coach will be the best transition we could of ever hoped for our hockey program,\ Sakalaadded. Seven years ago when UniGn decided to upgrade its hockey pro- gram to the Division llevel, Presi- dent Hull made it clear that there would be no changes in the fman- Coach Sneddon is confident about the up-coming season cial aid structure, and that hockey players would not be treated any differently than other students. Having six schools in the league, who give full grants to athletes, along with five other Ivy League schools, it has been bard for Union to compete against those types of circumstances. \We do not give athlethic schol- arships like RPI, Clarkson, Ver- mont, St. Lawrence and oth.er league teams that do,\ President ·Hull said. \I had no real knowl- edge that Moore was going to leave, but I can suspect reasons for his departurl;l,. in which we will not change our Jlol:icies to give athletic scholarships or preferen- tial pac~aging to players. He did a great job here at Union by bring- ing in great players, students and people. I feel Kevin Sneddon will do a great job as our new head coach and I believe our program will do very well,'' Hull added. Head coach Sneddon has a posi- tive attitude and is ready to take oil his new position for the Union hockey program. \I don't think I have too much pressure. I have great support here with President Hull and Athletic Director Sakata. I know that the players feel com- fortable with me and I feel very confident with my staff. Even though we finished 12th last year, the only way to go is up and I have a lot of confidence in the players,\ Sneddon said. Coach Sneddon has added Ja- son Patrick to be one ofthe assis- tant coaches along with Assistant Coach KevinMicheletto. Patrick, a native of the Albany area, was once a captain ofthe Notre Dame hockey teain and has also played professionally in Green Bay. From the players' pointofview, most feel Sneddon. will be suc- cessful as their new coach. \Moore's decision to leave was unexpected, but we feel confident in Coach' Sneddon to do a fine job/' senior defenseman Joel Bond said. Union begins captain's practicl! this week and will begin their season .with the JC Penny Classic October 23 at the University ofMaine. -: Cross Country Struggles in Season Opener by H~gh Meyer Contributing Writer --~--~~--~--~~~~ but fmished strong with a first place time of27:43. Although FlYnn ran ·a · great race, he could not display all his talents. Finishing in' eighth place :The Union College Cross Couri- overa11 wasseniorco-captaini:Jugh ·-~try team traveled to Hamilton Col- · · Meyer with a time of29:50. Right lege on SatUrday, September 12 for on Meyer's heels was sophomore a d!Jaf meet.showdown. Wllile both Jeff Morse, who made an impres- teams struggled in their respective sive debut and finished in tenth season openers, a hard-working place overall with a time of 30:24. attitude .and unity was displayed Coach Charley Casey was proud of that bodes· well for the rest of the the men's perfonnance and noted, season. \The fatigue along with the inexpe- The Union College Men's team rience of the men's team played a was led by the return of senior co- key role in today's outcome.\ captain, Peter Flynn. Flynn paced Rounding out the top seven for the hirnselfto a conservative first mile men's team was Kenny Scott in 15th Niek Conway/TC Hugh Meyer leave$ the competition in the dus(, but his team could not follow. place at 31 :28. In 16th place was · Teiry Chang in '31 :29. In 19 111 place was John Nieman in 33:16 and c~argif!g into 23'd ,Place was Steven Schuler with a time of 34:20. ' -' lfie Union College women's sq:uad had an impressive debut against a formidable Hamilton squad. Sophomore standout Amy Slabich 'and two impressive new- comers, freshman Glenna Malcohn and Junior Zea Wright, led the women. The three women re- mained in a pack for most of the 3 .1-mile race, which should prove to be significant throughout the long season. Slabich and Mal cohn strode in tandem with times of 20:35 and 20:36 respectively. Right behind them in eighth place was Wright with a tirneof20:58. Coach Casey was very pleased with the effort ofthe women's team, espe- cially the top three finishers. Slabich, Malcolm, and Wright were abie to push one another throughout the race and set the tonefortheentire team. Casey also noted the absence of the speedy senior Jessica Goveia who has had to cope with sorne unfortun&te in- juries. With the return of Goveia, thewomen'sseason will undoubt- edly be one to remember. Finish- ing in 12m place was Elizabeth Henson with a time of22:29. In 13 111 place was senior captain Katie MacDowell in a time of22:59. 15 111 place went to Irene Kan in 24: 10 ____ ___:.. ________________ ... - ..... ' ....... - .. ., --.- ... ----- and in I~lhpJaceforthewomen was Emily Morse In a·time of24:26. Both teams ti-avel to Middlebury College next week for the inaugu- ral Middlebury Jnvitational. The men'sandwomen\steamswillsee many of the scho<>ls that will be coming to the U ilion Invitational as wellas the State .Championship meet in Saratoga State Park._ The cross-country season isa long and arduous one and I:Joth the Union men's and women's teams will make their presence known before all is said and done.

Sports <!tnnr:nrhlensis • Septemberl7, 1998 • Page 21 Men's Soccer Starts Season as Champions by Rory Stern Staff Writer • ptit a\'ay by Roy. I twas a freeze frame shot, tested Danbusky with a few quick shots. NCAA's,butwe also would like to make the off ofRoy's head~ that fmished 22 minutes Danbusky took care of the flurry, and placed ECAC' s. We have a. very young team who of sh()t after shot,. but no goals. the ball back into MIT's. defensive .zone. did a lot of work last year and now we are Surprising few, the Union College men's MIT countered and evened the game with Danbusky' s placement of the ball, and going to build on everything. We face a soccer team took advatange of horne field ~()tne physical play in:thebox. After a series Union's fastsetup, led to the equalizing goal tough schedule, and every game will be a to repeat as champion ofits annual In vita- <>ffaiglllight saves, MIT took a 2-1 lead off off the head of Sabin in the 21 51 minute. The dogfight.\ Coach Guinn commented. tional Tournament this past weekend at <lf~ sloppy goal as Koch was caught play- ball came off a well placed cross, by Alperin, Union's frrst tournament victory came on Garris field. in.,g o-1It of the net. As tlie two went into and was executed in textbook style. Saturday afternoon, witha 1-0 victory over While tile outcome was not surprising, llalfiime, Union appeared to be reeling. One minute later, Alperin stopped and with Manhattanville. The young Dutchmen team the way the young teani gelled af- came out f1red up and immediately be- ter just two weeks of practice gan an aggressive style of play far ·be- ha.ve beenthe greatest yond their age, but a veteran would ment. Considering the make the difference. teams that traveled The defense was led by Bazydlo Manhattanville,MIT,and and junior Bryan Roy, who both Unionplayedlikeateam atthe played the game as fierce creatures of the season, not in its first two . putting their entire heart into every games. motion. Eleven minutes into the game, After a narrow win on Saturday. the team began their strong offensive over Manhattan ville, the effort, placing the ball on net quite of- won the championship with a ten. The offense worked the field and victory against MIT on Sunday. . had many second effort shots that From the kickoff, the game's ·made the game appear to be a quick tensity was high. Union put pres- massacre. sure on the MIT keeper within 4 Although Union dominated the en- first .five minutes, mounting tire game, a sea of red shirts collapsed impressive offensive attacks, but . on the Dutchmen every touch of the no avail. Meanwhile, the defensive ball. pair of Bryan Roy and A scoreless tie would be all the BazydiO kept MIT busy and · Dutchmen could deliver after the .first trated. half and it would take a little help from Back and forth the ballwent, with the bench to reach the finals. no team finishing their attack. It· Seniorco-captainlbrahimAdamum ended up being the Dutchmen's the first half of the game on the young players that made the fmai Jeremy Messler!fC bench nursing an injury and entered impact. Freshman James Fryar Craig Ell~nt:ln swiftly moves past a Manhattanville defender en route to a Union Victory. the game with 15 minutes remaining. started the game at midfield and At 8:44, Adamu got his first touch on worked the field with the experience a cross from Sabin and headed the ball into that sophomores David Alperin and Aaron Witb a few minor changes, the Dutchmen a quick turn, put the Dutchmen ahead for an open net for the games lone goal. Sabin showed. r~ttlrned to the field poised and ready for good. Craig Ellman's goal at 3:06 put the In the fmal few minutes, Manhattanville The effort put forth paid off in the 23rd l>usi11ess. Junior Daniel Danbusky was crowd on its feet and added needed insur- tried to use their more physical play to make minute, on a free kick. A hard shot was l>rou.,ght in at the keeper position and looked ance to secure the title. something happen, but Union would not placed off the MIT keeper and was then tefldj to play. MIT wasted no time, and '\Like every team, we hope to make the stand for a comeback. Women's Soccer Cruises to Tournament Victory This Year~ Team ,Consists of Many Skilled Freshmen Players by .Brian Terlinsky Sports Edit~r The Uni<ln women's soccer team was excited to begin their season 2 .. 0, as they too became champions of their 2nd an- nual Invitaticnal Tournament this past weekend. Played. h:ere at Union~ the tournament consisted of three other teams, South- em Vennont, WestemNewEnglandand Manhattanviile colleges. Since Uni<ln be- gins a few weeks later than most schools, the team was unable to participate in any type of pre-season scrimmages, which ma:de thistoumament their frrst competi- tive action ofthe year. But this aspect would not create any problems as Union W.()'llld sllutQut both of their opponents in e2c:h g~e and win the tournament Tllis year, captains Sara Moss, Taryn ~ol,. lllldEiizabeth S<:bmitt, will try to lead the. women'$team to t!Je yef!fly NCAA tour- namell:i. With 12 new freshmen on the team, lJn3()n will be a young squad, but will re- main. e:ager to reach the post-season. With many new and very skilled players 011 th-e team, it will also p\lt some additional - pre:lS.llre on the upper-classmen, who will nee:d to step it up to compete for starting po;itiO:nson the team. As aresult, this past weelcend's tournament gave Head Coach B:riam Speck a sense of his player's abilities,. an<i ga'Ve him some outlook for the rest of the se!ISOil. For the most part, he was ex- tremely pleased. Abby Harris battles for possession of the ball dill'i11gVnion ;s 4-0 win against Western N¢vy Eng/aD,d. . •. :·' ... J. ' . '\ ... • ' : .: ' .. ; , ' . ' --. \. On Saturday, Union faced Manhattan ville College, and would go on to victory with no problems~ crushing them, 13-0. In the first pericd, Union would go ahead, 7-0, with the first two goals from freshman Katie Sntith, who scored at 39:40, assisted by Margaret Kostro and then again at 31:42, assisted by Carrie Price. Junior Jaymee Wilson would score five minutes later, at 26:56, and was unassisted. Senior Autumn Renn would also connect with two goals along with sophomores Mel- issa Matusewicz and Julie Cardettino, who each had one. Goaltender Shannon Powers made six saves in the net. In the second half,. Union would go even further, adding another six goals. Goal scor- ers included Renn and Shanna Reyes, sopho- mores Katherine Hayes and Matusewicz, and two goals from junior Abby Harris. Union had 21 shots on goal in their massive defeat ofManhattanville. In the championship game on Sunday af- ==-~ ternoon, Union once again was in control as they successfully blanked We stem New En- gland Col1ege 4-0, conquering the Invita- tional Tournament. Scorers in the first half included Harris and senior Sarno!, and in the second half,. Kostro and Corinne Towle would each add one too. Senior captain Moss feels confident in tl1e team and believes that they will have a very favorable season. \I think we played very well and strong this past weekend. We have a young team, but I believe we will be very successful throughout the rest of the sea- son. \ \We would definitely like to improve from last year's tltird place fmish in the state tour- llament,\ said Coach Speck. \\This toutna- Jeremy Messl Freshman Midfielder Tara 1/lsley dribbles the ball down the field ment was good preparation for the rest of the season. Some players that stepped up for us were Wilson, Matusewicz, Sam Ryall, and many of the freshmen showed some good skill. Some teams that will be a chal- lenge for us will be RPI and Skidmore, as well as Williams and Hobart- William Smith,\ he added. Onion took on Oneonta on Tuesday and will compete against Hamilton this up com- ing Tuesday. Complete recap and scores from both games will be in next week's is- sue.

•:- \ I . ,, ~ . ., Page 22 • September 17, 1998 • Ginmnrl\it:usi:s Sports Where Did All the Lovin'· Go? by David Brooks Sports. Editor New Ball. $9. New Ball. New Ball. $9. 62. Priceless. We have all watched the race, and we all heard about Mark McGwire hitting his 62 home runs, but did everyone hear about his shadow, Sammy So sa? Apparently the two hav~ become quite clo~e this season, which was shown that Tuesday night in St. Louis when Sosa trotted in from right field to cortgratulate McGwire on the milestone. Sosa got a huge bear hug and the two performed a little dance. Fox Network changed its regular schedule premier of \King of the Hill\ just to put the game on. The Maris family attended the game, ~ommissioner Bud Selig attended the game, and about 50,000 other screaming fans. At 9: 18 on 9/8 in 98, McGwire sent one yard, inciden- tally his shortest of the year. There were millions watching the game, even if it was only when McGwire was batting. The Cardinals are out ofthe playoff race and.McGwire is about the only exciting thing left in Busch Stadium. McGwire' s ball was rightfully returned to him a by a lucky grounds crew member who caught the line drive that barely cleared the left field fence. MeG wire then graciously donated his cleats, batting gloves, extra-large uniform, the ball, the bat, and his son's batboy jersey (fans are dying to see that). These artifacts were then put into a Cardinals bag and hand carried onto a plane that arrived at Albany National Airport Wednes- day morning where it was then es- corted by New York State Troop- ers to Caoperstown, nearly 90 miles away. On Wednesday many things were dedicated to McGwire. The usual Spgrtscenter was now called McGwire center and there were a huge number of children born in St. Louis whose first or middle Tennis Beats Vassar by AnnetteGrajny Staff Writer The Union women's varsity Tennis team got off to a strong start this year by winning its season opener against a tough VassarCo11ege squad, 6-3. Head Coach Bill Scanlon acknowledged that the victory was partly due to the team's hard work and focus during pre-season training. \I was so pleased with everyone's performance in the match. Our doubles teams were unbeatable, while our singles players competed aggressively, even in the close losses,\ he said. Junior co-captain Cassie Lawton agreed with Coach Scanlon. \We came into the match knowing that it was going to be tough, because Vassar has always.been one of the stronger teams in the past,\ she said. Playing the first singles position, Lawton defeated her Vassar oppo- nent in a close three-setter. She jumped off to an early lead, and then dropped the second set, only to rally back for 6-4 in the third. Other singles winners were freshmen Liz Agar and Susan Yoo, playing fifth and sixth singles positions respec- tively. Agar won her match easily with a score of6-2, 6-2, while Yoo also needed only two sets, finish- ing at 6-2, 6-4. In doubles play, all three teams went undefeated in their eight game pro-sets. The frrst doubles team, Lawton and senior co-captain Jen DeLucca, fmished ahead ofVassar with a score of 8-6. The second doubles team, sophomore Annette Grajny, paired with Agar, were also successful, dropping only four games for a .final score of 8-4. Sophamore Becky Rubin, matched with Y oo, brought in the -third win to complete the doubles sweep, with a score of8-5. The win on Saturday was par- ticularly significant because it marked the team's improvement since last season, when the Dutchwomen lost to Vassar 9-0. Scanlon felt that this victory put the team forward on a very posi- tive note. \I just hope that the girls can carry this momentum with them for the rest of the season,\ he said. Assistant coach Greg Roman agreed with Scanlon's en- thusiasm. \We are so much stronger than last year. We just need to keep up our mental tough- ness and aggressive spirit, espe- cially since there are some tough matches ahead,\ said Roman. Both captains OeLucca and Lawton feel as though thC' team members back each other Up .and support each other. \Everyone is so supportive and encouraging, and it only makes playing more re- warding,\ said DeLucca. This week, the Women's Tennis team has a busy schedule, with three home matches back to back. On Wednesday they will face a very strong Hamilton team, which promises to be a close match. On Friday, the team takes on Clarkson, followed by St. Lawrence on Sat- tnday. natne was either Mark or McGwire So what about Sosa? Where did all the attention go? The sold out crowd at Wrigley Field saluted Sammy with a stan~ing ovation There was J1()marked ball. There was no hugging. as Sosa rounded the bases. There was no national tel~vision coverage like McGwire had, which was partly due to with \ 5·o 0 when he hit it) 62n~ ,a 480 foot bomb that cleared that Wrigley crowd. However, the only famous names at the stadium s~emed to be Jesse Jackson and Bin Murray. Not to put them down, but where were the Maris children or Bud Selig? Or how about the escort to Cooperstown? Maybe there was an escort, but l didn't hear about it on every newscast like McGwire' s. FMtball, but even so, there were no \gam~ breaks\ to catch up on Sosa at•bats. It was as if no one cared. McGwire had done it and . the hype had disappeared. Unlike McGwire's 62nd blast, S<>-sa's actually meantsomething to the team. It wa:sthe enough to get the Cubs within one run of the Brewers, andtwo hits later the Cubs would tie it and eventually win after a, solo shot by Mark Grace, with So sa waiting in the on deck circle. Grace later apologized for his game winning home run stating the fans would have rather watched another Sosa at bat. Sosa's teammates carried him off the fieldnot only for his 62ild home riuil, hut because they won, stay- ing a full.game ahead of the Mets in the Wild Card Race. Baseball is still a team game, and not a home run derby. It seems to me that 1hings are just Stlining to become interesting. We no longer have to hear projec- tions to see if McGwire and Sosa will surpass Maris, but now we can concentrate on who will win the races, both the home run race and the Wild Card race. The '62 home runs were priceless, by both McGwire and Sosa, and every home run hit by those two in the next two weeks are sure to be price- less. I run not ,sure who I want to win the race, but they both deserve the same amount of respect for breaking a 37~year-old record. *************************** Question o[the Week Which National League Slugg~r Will Set The Horne Run Record? And How Many Will He Hit? e-mail David Brooks at 'This Week ·In Union Athletics Friday, September 18 Tuesday, September 22 ' • Women's Tennis vs. Clarkson 3:00 • Women's Soccer @Hamilton 4:00 • Volleyball@ New Paltz 7:00 Saturday,_~eptember 19 Wednesday, September 23 • Football@ WPI 1:30 • Men'sSoccervsoHobart 2:00 • Men'sSoccer@Williams 4:00 • FieldHockey@ Wesleyan 1:30 • Volleyball vs. Russel Sage 10:00 • Women's Ten11is vs. St. Lawrence 2:00 • Cross-Country@ Middlebury 1:00 Slow Start For Field Hockey by Susan J<Jyal Staff Writer The UnionCollege field hockey team openedtheir season this past IWe:eKt~no.with games against RPI Skidmore. On Friday rre1rnoon. the team took on a strong RPI team, losing by a score of 6-3. Despite the score, the. r 6 .... ,., was very close and well- played. Leading Union in goal was junior Michelle Tardif, who r<>~•'\rctf•r1 16 saves and faced three. penalty strokes. Early ,in the frrst ' a poor judgment can on the ofthe officials led to a penalty stroke for RPI. Tardif made the save but was called for a minor infraction of the .rules, and the shot wa:s ruled a goal Within minutes, junior Susan Joyal scored to put Union on the board, tying the game at one. Later jrt the half, after falling behind, 2-1, sophomore Kathleen Healy stepped up and put the ballpast RPI' s keeper, again evening the score. After RPI scored again to take the lead, 3-2, Tara Blagys fired a shot off of a penalty comer, and the half ended at 3-3. In the second half, despite excellent defensive play from co-captain Carrie Heroth and freshman Yvonne Turchettil RPl took a commanding 6-3 lead:; scoring on two more penalty strokes and adding another goal late in the game. . On Saturday Union traveled to Saratoga Springs for their second UCAA contest of the weekend, against Skid.rUore. Leading Union were seni()r midfielder Shoko Okado, sophomore back Claire Currie, and Blagys at sweeper. A strong defense. was not enough, as Union was unable to capitalize on any opportunities and fell, 4-0. Tardif had a strong game in net, facing 15 shots and yet ano.ther penalty str<>ke. A quick Skidmore team held Union to 10 shots on g<>al, frustrating Union's offensive effort. Union looks to improve their record with games at Wesleyan on Saturday and at home against Wil- liams on Thursday, September24 .. ~ I I~ ! I I ' I ! I ,( I I \ l \

Page 22 • September 17, 1998 • OlllttCnrhleufiis Sports Where Did All the Lovin' Go? by David Brooks Sports Editor New Ball. $9. New Ball. New Ball $9. 62. Priceless. We have aU watched the race, and we all heard about Mark McGwire hitting his 62 home runs, but did everyone hear about his shadow, Sammy Sosa? Apparently the two have become quite close this season, which was shown that Tuesday night in St. Louis when Sosa trotted in from right field to congratulate MeG wire on the milestone. Sosa got a huge bear hug and the two performed a little dance. Fox Network changed its regt!lar schedule premier of \King of the Hill\ just to put the game on. The Maris family attended the game, commissioner Bud Selig attended the game, and about 50,000 other screaming fans. At 9: 18 on 9/8 in 98, MeG wire sent one yard, inciden- tally his shortest of the year. There were millions watching the game, even if it was only when McGwire was batting. The Cardinals are out of the playoff race and McGwire is about the only exciting thing left in Busch Stadium. McGwire's ball was rightfully returned to him a by a lucky grounds crew member who caught the line drive that barely cleared the left field fence. McGwire then graciously donated his cleats, batting gloves, extra-large uniform, the ball, the bat, and his son's batboy jersey (fans are dying to see that). These artifacts were then put into a Cardinals bag and hand carried onto a plane that arrived at Albany National Airport Wednes- day morning where it was then es- corted by New York State Troop- ers to Cooperstown, nearly 90 miles away. On Wednesday many things were dedicated to McGwire. The usual Sportscenter was now called McGwire center and there were a huge number of children born in St. Louis whose first or middle Tennis Beats Vassar ---- -------- h~ Arml'ttcGrajn) .\.illjf H ri1a The Union women's varsity Tennis team got off to a strong start this year by winning its season opener against a tough VassarCol!C'ge squad, 6-3. Head Coach Bill Scanlon acknowledged that the victory was partly due to the team's hard work and focus during pre-season train in g. \I was ~o pleased with everyone's perfonnance in the match. Our doubles teams were unbeatable. while our singles players competed aggressively, even in the close losses,\ he said. Junior co-captain Cassie Lawton agreed with Coach Scanlon. \We came into the match knowing that it was going to be tough, bct.:ausc: Vassar has always been one of the stronger teams in the past,\ she said. Playing the first singles position, Lawton defeated her Vassar oppo- nent in a close three-setter. She jumped off to an early lead, and then dropped the second set, only t<> rally back fur 6-4 in the third. Other singles w inncrs were freshmen Liz Agar and Su~an Yoo, playing fifth and sixth singles positions respec- tively Agar v.on her match easily \ith a '>core of6-2, 6-2, while Yuo also needed only t\VO sets, finish- ing at 6-2, 6-·1. In douhb, play, all three teams went undefeated in tJ1e ir eight game pro-sets The first doubles team, Lawton and senior co-captain Jcn Dd.un.:a, finio.!wd ahead of Vassar with a score of 8-6. The second tJ,,uhk<; ttam. <.t,rlwmon: i\nn.:ttc (jrajny, paired with Agar, were also successful, dropping only four games for a final score of 8-4. Sophomore Becky Rubin, matched with Yoo, brought in the third win to complete the doubles sweep, with a score of 8-5. The win on Saturday was par- ticularly significant because it marked the team's improvement since last season. when the Dutchwomen lost to Vassar 9-0. Scanlon felt that this victory put the team forward on a very posi- tive note. \I just hope that the girls can carry this momentum with them for the rest of the season,\ he said. Assistant coach Greg Roman agreed with Scanlon's en- thusiasm. \We are so much stronger than last year. We just need to keep up our mental tough- ness and aggressive spirit, espe- cially since there are some tough matches ahead,\ said Roman. Both captains DeLucca and Lawton feel as though the team members back each other up and support each other. \Everyone is so supportive and encouraging, and it only makes playing more re- \\'a.rding,\ said DeLucca. 'Ibis week, the Women's Tennis team has a busy schedule, with three home matches back to back. On Wednesday they will face a n:ry strung flam ilton team, which prunmt.:s to be a close match. On Friday, the team wkcs on ClarksoiJ, followed by St. Lawrence on Sat- unlay. name was either Mark or McGwire So what ab<>ut Sosa? Wbere did all the attention go? Tbe sold out crowd at Wrigley Field saluted Sammy with a standing ovatioa when he hit in 62\d a 480 foot bomb that cleared that Wrigley crowd. However, the only famous names at the stadium seemed to be Jesse Jackson and Bill Murray. Not to put them down, but where were the Maris children or Bud Selig? Or how about the escort to Cooperstown? Maybe there was an escort, but I didn't hear about it on every newscast like McGwire's. There was nornarkedball. There was no hugging as Sosarounded the bases. There was no national television coverage like McGwire had, which was partly due to with \ Football, but evens<>, there were no \game breaks\ to catch up on Sosa at-bats. It was as if no one cared. McGwire had done it and the hype had disappeared. Unlike McGwire's 62\d blast, Sosa's actually meant something to the team. It was the enough to get the Cubs within one run of the Brewers, and two hits later the Cubs would tie it and eventually win after a solo shot by Mark Grace, with Sosa waiting in the on deck circle. Grace later apologized for his game winning home run stating the fans wou·ld have ratller watched another Sosa at bat. Sosa' s teammates carried him off the field not only for his 62\d home run, but because they won, stay- ing a fuU game ahead of the Mets in the Wild Card Race. Baseball is still a team game, and not a home ruN derby. It seems to me that things are just starting to become interesting. We no longer have to hear projec- tions to see if McGwire ancl Sosa will surpass Maris, but now we can concentrate on who will win the races, both the home ntn race and the Wild Card race. The 62home runs were priceless, by both McGwire and Sosa, and every home run hit by those two in the next two weeks are sure to be price- less. I am not sure who I want to win the race, but they both deserve the same amount of respect for breaking a 3 7 -year-old record. *************************** Question o(the Week Which National League Slugger Will Set The Home Run Record? And How Many Will He Hit? e-mail David Brooks at ·This Week In Union Athletics Friday, September 18 Tuesday, September22 • Women's Tennis l'.S. Clarkson 3:00 o 1/Vomen 's Soccer@ HamiltoJl 4:00 • Volleyball@ New Paltz 7:00 Saturday, September 19 Wednesday, September 23 • Football@ WPI 1:30 • Men's Soccer vs. Hobart 2:00 • Men's Soccer@ Williams 4:00 • Field Hockey@ Wesleyan 1:30 • Volleyball vs. Russel Sage 10:00 • Women's Tennis vs. St. Lawrence 2:00 • Cross-Country@ Middlebury I :00 Slow Start For Field Hockey by Susan Joyal Staff Writer The Union College field hockey opened their season this past \\''\'\'~\d with games against RPI and Skidmore. On Friday afternoon, the team took on a strong RPlteam, losing by a score of 6-3. Despite the score, the game was very close and well- played. Leading Union in goal was junior Michelle Tardif, who recorded 16 saves and faced three penalty strokes. Early in the first half. a poor judgment call on the part of the officials led to a penalty e for RPI. Tardif made the but was called for a minor infraction of the rules, and the shot was ruled a goal. Within minutes, junior Susan Joyal scored to put Union on the board, tying the game at one. Later in the half, after falling behind, 2-1, sophomore Kathleen Healy stepped up and put the ball past RPJ's keeper, again evening the score. After RPI scored again to take the lead, 3-2, Tara Blagys fired a shot off of a penalty comer, and the halfendedat3-3. lnthesecond half, despite excellent defensive play from co-captain Carrie Heroth and freshman Yvonne Turchetti, RPI took a commanding 6-3 lead, scoring on two more penalty strokes and adding another goal late in the game. On Saturday Union traveled to Saratoga Springs for their second UCAA contest of the weekend, against Skidmore. Leading Union were senior midfielder Shoko Okado, sophomore back Claire Currie, and Blagys at sweeper. A strong defense was not enough, as Union was unable to capitalize on any opportunities and fell, 4-0. Tardif had a strong game in net, facing 15 shots and yet another penalty stroke. A quick Skidmore team held Union to I 0 shots on goal, frustrating Union's offt:nsi vc c !Tort. Union looks to improve their record with games at Wesleyan on Saturday and at home against W ii- Iiams on Thursday, September 24 ..

'i ! \ ( I '( ' \ Sports (!t.amcllrbim5il!i • September 17, 199S • Page 23 Fighting Dutchmen Crush St. Lawrence Football Season Opens With 59-0 Victory 'by David Weiner Sports Editor Withthe59-0trouncingofthe'St. Lawrence Saints in their season opener, the Union Dutchmen showed 1:hat •they will be a team to be reckoned with during their 1998 campaign. After a somewhat disap- pointing 7-2 season a year ago, the Dutchmen were forced to think about this upcoming season for a long eight months. Coming into training camp in August, the team had one thing on their mind: making the playoffs. If the display shown last Saturday is a preview of what's in store for the rest of the season, the post-season is exactly where this team is headed. During the off season, a number of negative things transpired for the Dutchmen, leaving them in a vulner- able position. Three year starting quarterback Tom McKeown was not invited back to training camp and also decided not to try out as a walk- on. Todd Ellis, who missed last sea- son due to mononucleosis, was ex- pected to slide into the starting quar- terback role, but he injured his knee, ending his playing chances. The only quarterback returning to camp with any game experience was sophomore Jeff Ferraro. However, Ferraro, after a week of training camp, decided not to continue his football career, thus creating anxi. ety as to who would lead an inexpe- rienced offensive unit. Those ques- tions, however, were answered quite early in .preseason when freshmen Ben Gilbert and Henry Paple both displayed the skills to step in and guide the team. This is also an unusual year for the Dutchmen in that the major- ityoftheirstarting players, espe- cially on offense, are freshman or f.trst year starters. Unlike past years where Union returns a core of starters and fills in small holes here or there, they only return one starter from last years offensive unit, that being captain Jay Bar.clay. Thus, ten players were thrust into the starting lineup, leaving Union with a wealth of inexperience. While this inexpe- rience leaves room to grow, the offense was extremely suspect in their ability to put points on the board. On the opposites ide ofthe ball, however, Union's defense ap- peared to be the backbone of a young team as they return seven starters. The remaining four spots will all be filled by return- ing players who saw quite a bit of playing time last year, creating a unit that should not surrender many points this season. While St. Lawrence played SUNY Cortland the previous week, thus allowing them to work out any kinks in their system, Union had yet to play a regular season game. Union, however, was ready to get their season underway in front of a large home crowd and with a freshman at the helm ofan inexperienced offense, the Dutchmen prepared to kickoff their season. Throughout the ftrst quarter, it was clear that each team was feel- ing each other out, testing their own offenses, and the other's de- fenses. While Union's offense was able to gain some yardage of the legs of tailback Jay Warzala and ing situation, the Dutchmen lined up in punt block formation. Devon Wimberly bolted past all St. Lawrence defenders, blocked the punt, and teammate Mike Rosenthal recovered the ball in the end zone for another Union touch- down. As time slowlyticked away in the second quarter, the Onion defense back for St. Lawrence. With a 3 5-0 lead and victory sure in hand, a number of the Union second string players began ap- pearmg on the field. This, how- ever, did not slow the Dutchmen down as they continued to put more points on the board. At the conclusion of three quarters, Union had three more touch- through the air withr---------------------------~ receivers Dan Hamister, Dave, Robbins, and Brian O'Donnell, the de- fense continually pushed St. Lawrence back, stopping their run-. ning back for losses and sacking the ·quarterback .. -···-· ous times. Late in the first quarter, however, Union fmally put to- gether a strong of-~~~~~~~~================;=====;;==:===:===~~;:;---' fensive drive. With five minutes and 52 The Dutchmen celebrate at midfield after trouncing St. Lawrence seconds remaining-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- in the quarter, Union took the ball from their own 27 yard line and slowly marched down the field. As time expired in the quarter, Union found themselves on the St. Lawrence 1 yard line and on the brink of what turned into a scoring barage. Ben Gilbert, on the first play of the second quarter, scored his- first collegiate touch- down by hulling his into end be- later, after the Union defense forced St. Lawrence into a punt- continually forced St. Lawrence to punt the ball away, thus giving the Union offense more opportunities to score. With those opportunities, Union punched in two more touch- downs, one a pass from Gilbert to tight end Matt Hoover and the other a completion from freshman quarterback Henry Paple to Dave Robbins, thus spotting Union a 28- 0 lead as time expired in the first half. downs as Gilbert ran in his sec- ond TD of the day, Paple posted a running touchdown ofhis own and also passed for another score to tight end Dan Bamford, thus giv- ing Union a 56-0 lead. The scoring slowed in the fourth quarter as it was clear the Dutchmen simply wa11ted to end the game without any injuries and begin preparing f<Jr their next game. A field goal by back-up freshman kicker Andy Ruffo gave Union. their final three points of the day and as time finally expired on a long day for St. Lawrence, Union emerged with an easy vic- tory to begin their season. Aaron Braunstein /TC Dan Hamister makes a reception and puts a move on the St. Lawrence secondary Clearly, Union was dominating this game on both sides of the ball. While the Dutchmen had compiled 225 yards in total offense, St. Lawrence had mustered a mere 120, all of which came through the air as the Saints were held to negative rushing yards. Coming into the second half, Union simply needed to continue what it was doing as St. Lawrence showed no signs of improvement and continue is ·ex- actly what tlley did. On the first play of the second half, Union run- ning back JayWarzala took a hand off from Gilbert at the Union 26 yard line, followed his blockers around the left side of the offen- sive line, and ran by everyone in sight for a 7 4 yard touchdown run, thus crushing any hope of a come- Any questions people may have had about freshman quarter- backs or inexperienced offenses were answered on this day as it was evident that Union pos- sesses a team with great poten- tial. While this was only first game of a long season, Union silenced their critics and took a large step towards erasing the memories of last season. This team may be young , but they are strong in con- fidence and they will look to build that confidence even more when they travel to WPI next weekend. Dutchmen Details Passing Ben Gilbert HenryPap/e Comp/Att 10/16 6/9 Yards TD 142 I 87 2 INT 0 1 Rushing Jay Warzala Dennis Sanahia Ben Gilbert Att 14 8 9 Defense Solo Tackles 2 John Visconti Devon Wimberly Mike Thompson 2 5 Yards 136 56 52 Tackles INf 2 0 2 I 1 0 1D 1 0 2 Sacks 1 0 1 Long 74 16 13 Punt Blocks 0 2 0

y- ts is e e Sports CI.Imu:nrhlensis • September 17, 1998 • Page 23 Fighting Dutchmen Crush St. Lawrence Football Season Opens With 59-0 Victory by David Weiner Sports Editor With the 59-0 trouncing of the St. Lawrence Saints iN their season opener, the Union Dutchmen showed that they will be a team to be reckoned with during their 1998 campaign. After a somewhat disap- pointing 7-2 season a year ago, the Dutchmen were forced to think about this upcoming season for a long eight months. Coming into training camp in August, the team had one thing on their mind: making the playoffs. If the display shown last Saturday is a preview of what's in store for the rest of the season, the post-season is exactly where this team is headed. During the off season, a number of negative things transpired for the Dutchmen, leaving them in a vulner- able position. Three year starting quarterback Tom McKeown was not invited back to training camp and also decided not to try out as a walk- on. Todd Ellis, who missed last sea- son due to mononucleosis, was ex- pected to slide into the starting quar- terback role, but he injured his knee, ending his playing chances. The only quarterback returning to camp with any game experience was sophomore Jeff Ferraro. However, Ferraro, after a week of training camp, decided not to continue his football career, thus creatirtg anxi- ety as to who would lead an inexpe- rienced offensive unit. Those ques- tions, however, were answered quite early in preseason whea freshmen Ben Gilbert and Henry Paple bo'th displayed the skills to step in and guide the team. This is also an unusual year for the Dutchmen in that the major- ity of their starting players, espe- cially on offense, are freshman or first year starters. Unlike past years where Union returns a core of statters and fills in small holes here or there, they only return one starter from. last years offensive unit, that being captain Jay Barclay. Thus, ten players were thrust into the starting lineup, leaving Union with a wealth of inexperience. While this inexpe- rience leaves room to grow, the offense was extremely suspect in their ability to put points on the board. On the opposite side of the ball, however, Union's defense ap- peared to be the backbone of a young team as they return seven starters. The remaining four spots will all be filled by return- ing players who saw quite a bit of playing time last year, creating a unit that should not surrender many points this season. While St. Lawrence played SUNY Cortland the previous week, thus allowing them to work out any kinks in their system, Union had yet to play a regular season game. Union, however, was ready to get their season underway in front of a large home crowd and with a freshman at the helm of an inexperienced offense, the Dutchmen prepared to kickoff their season. Throughout the first quarter, it was clear that each team was feel- ing each other out, testing their own offenses, and the other's de- fenses. While Union's offense was able to gain some yardage of the legs of tailback Jay Warzala and in.g situation, the Dutchmen lined up in punt block formation. Devon Wimberly bolted past all St. Lawrence defenders, blocked the punt, and teammate Mike Rosen.~hal recovered the ball in the end zone for another Union touch- down. As time slowly ticked away in the second quarter, the Union defense back for St. Lawrence. With a35-0 lead and victory sure in hand, a number of the Union second string players began ap- pearing on the field. This, how- ever, did not slow the Dutchmen down as they continued to put more points on the board. At the conclusion of three quarters, Union had three more touch- through the air with.---------------------------------, receivers Dan Hamister, Dave Robbins, and Brian O'Donnell, the de- fense continually pushed St. Lawrence back, stopping their run- ning back for losses. and sacking the quarterback numer- ous times. Late in the first quarter, however, Union finally put to- gether a strong of- ~.:=======================:==~::==7~'7.;::-:;-;--' fensive drive. With five minutes and 52 The Dutchmen celebrate at midfield after trouncing St. Lawrence seconds remaining---------------------------------------------------------------- in the quarter, Union took the ball from their own 27 yard line and slowly marched down the field. As time expired in the quarter, Union found themselves on the St. Lawrence l yard line and on the brink of what turned into a scoring barage. Ben Gilbert, on the first play of the second quarter, scored his· first collegiate t 0 u c h - down by bulling his into end be- minutes later, after the Union defense forced St. Lawrence into a punt- continually forced St. Lawrence to punt the ball away, thus giving the Union offense more opportunities to score. With those opportunities, Union punched in two more touch- downs, one a pass from Gilbert to tight end Matt Hoover and the other a completion from fi·eshman quarterback Henry Paple to Dave Robbins, thus spotting Union a 28- 0 lead as time exiJired in the first half. downs as Gilbert ran in his sec- ond TO of the day, Paple posted a running touchdown of his own and also passed for another score to tight end Dan Bamford, thus giv- ing Union a 56-0 lead. The scoring slowed in the fourth quarter as it was clear the Dutchmen simply wanted to end the game without any injuries and begin preparing !'or their next game. A field goal by back-up fn.::-.hman 1-..id.cr r\llJ) RufliJg.J\C Union their final three points of the day and as time finally expired on a long day for St. Lawrence, Union t.?mcrged with an easy vic- tory to begin tht.! ir season. Aaron Braunstein /TC Dan Hamister makes a reception and puts a move on the St. Lawrence secondary Clearly, Union was dominating this game on both sides of the ball. While the Dutchmen had compiled 225 yards in total offense, St. Lawrence had mustered a mere 120, all ofwh ich came through the air as the Saints were held to negative rushing yards. Coming into the second half, Union simply needed to continue what it was doing as St. Lawrence showed no signs of improvement and continue is ex- actly what they did. On the first play ofthe second half, Union run- ning back Jay Warzala took a hand off from Gilbert at the Union 26 yard line, followed his blockers around the left side of the offen- sive line, and ran by everyone in sight for a 74 yard touchdown run, thus crushing any hope of a come- Any question:; people may have had about freshman quurter- backs or inexperienced offenses were answered on this day as it was evident that Union pos- sesses a team with great poten- tial. While this was only first game of a long season, Union silenced their critics and took a large step towards erasing the memories of last season. This team may be young, but they are strong in con- fidence and they will look to build that confidence even more when they travel to WPl next weekend. Dutchmen Details Passing Ben Gilbert Henry Paple Comp/Att 10/16 619 Yards TD 142 1 87 2 INT 0 1 Rushing Jay Warzafa Dennis Sanabia Ben Gilbert Att 14 8 9 Defense Solo Tackles 2 John Visconti Devon Wimberly Mike Thompson 2 5 Yards 136 56 52 Tackles INf 2 0 2 0 1D 1 0 2 Sacks 1 0 Long 74 16 13 Punt Blocks 0 2 0 ...

20

~--· CompJ~~e Sports Co vera onPa· 20 vr;. ' -.~X .y _,.;:~~~;::~~ Freshman Quarterback Bell; Gilbert (left), natlied ECAC \Roo> Ofthe ··.Week''·. . ~ . . -·.:· ' ' _,, ''··'- .. ·: ·_,._ -. ,.- ' •. '·::- ·~· ·,,_·' :·. ·.: : '· ~ ;. ' ,I '· ' ' .:: ,, ,' __ .. j . ·, . . . . ::· ' :.· .• .. \.-· . ~... ·~ . . ' '-, ' '• .-. ,, ' .. ,. • ' '': i _, ... ··· ·> •

·._,, ·.·.-7.~.--,v.v,v,_v.,,~_.v __ '.\ ·.·fiot'.lil''iievilrJalling~ ., hut-in ·rising up time we \ - Emerson Gende~ On CaJDpus: Issues for College Wotnen Professor Sharon Gmelcb takes a ~;lose look at real problems and questions on campus .. News: Will Fiji Serve U? J>age 3 Swenson Speaks Fage5 World News: The Demise Leadership P~tge 6 by Brooke )Jary1ick News Editor First year students tnust deal with many issues upon entering college, including the emotional stresses of leaving home and ad- justing to an unfamiliar social en- vironment. Most new students discuss these problems with parents or older siblings whose know ledge comes from their own experience. These conversations usually help ·ease the burden, but they cannot anticipate everything a new stu- dent will face~ What about dealing withrace? Whataboutsexual iden- tity and homophobia? What about case.s of discrimination in the class- li~~~~~~~~~~~~~:]· room? Such issues are rarely dis- [. cussed, yet their impact on college Op/Ed: Thoughts on Greek Life Page8 ·students can be tremendous. Sharon Gmelch realized this af- ter listening to students in her classes and decided to write a book on the topic.· Genderon Campus;· Issues for College Women (Rutgers University Press, 1998) is an excel- lent book that addresses the sub- jects mentioned above along with many others. Its purpose and use is twofold-:. as a text for introduc- tory classes in Women's Studies t,,,...-_;.;..~~.;..;......:......--~- ...... :.J and, because it is written in an easy Football: and often entertaining style, as an informational-guide. to assist stu- dents dealing with such issues. Gmeicb . ' ~ - - Paul 0' Annibale/ TC The cover of Sharon Gmelch :s-· book on Women s Issues. 'The book has four main sections (Gender Issues on Campus, Deal- ing With Diversity, Sexuality and the Body, College and Beyond), each broken down into chapters. Each chapter discusse.s an issue, from language and sports to eat- ing disorders and sexual assault, then ends with a section of facts, suggestions for things that stu- dents can do to change a situation ifthey are unsatisfied with it, and, fmally, resources for further infor- mation, such as videos and books as well as organizations one can join. Special Teams step it up to lead Union to a 34-14 What The Future May Hold ... . WID Pagel7 by ShaonP. Montana Stwjf Writer Today, from 12:00to4:00PMin kt.'''>>&i?~b'N!i{;:;;:;;;:;-;£.);:;;;:\'i:;(~(~t~;;t;~,:> :>~tJ the Fieldhouse, Union's Career De- velopment Center presents its 20th annual Career Festival. This year 3 _-uoN<<''·'''<~ the festival features over 80 com- panies and graduate schools who ;;'i~2·i:;;.fr:;c.·c;il'· 3 ~t;;;~'':;:{: :~Ni;t;il{,;)(;;~~;;t~:;:;::r,~~\~;fl.Ji:i'J:: I accepted invitations to attend. The planning process for this ;:t:~;(~~~ti~\ifly* 1 e::::::'<~l event runs from eatly April until .,.,.,._.,_.,. right up to the event, held once a year near the end of September. There is the possibility of a non- profit career fair in the spring to highlight service organizations, .;.tiiBf,;it;/•Jt;;;::,/,;;;:'trJ but today's fest is your one op- portunity this school year to see what kind of job offers for seniors and internships, co-ops and sum- mer jobs for freshmen, sopho- mores, and juniors are available. This year there are more compa- nies and graduate schools sched- uled to be in attendance than ever before. In fact, according to Shelly Career Fest '98 Shinebargerofthe CDC, \We had some people who we didn't send invitations to call and ask if there was room for them to come.\ Many engineering firms and consulting finns will be in atten- dance, but this event is by no means only for people looking for technical jobs. A wide-range of businesses will be in attendance, as well as gradu- ate schools, including about 15 law schools. And you aren't exactly limited by what you see, either. \If you're going by and you see an investment banking table, for ex- ample, artdyou 're looking into hu- man resourcesjobs, don't hesitate to go up and ask if you can get information to get in touch with their human resources depart- ment,\ explained Joanne Tobiessen, director of the CDC, encourages. The types of companies present are a reflection of the current job market, and of Union students themselves. \Many companies tend to be impressed by Union stu- . dents, the way they dress and carry themselves,\ Tobiessen relates ... \That's why it's important to come . dressed appropriately, if possible. Then employers can readily see that this is something you are tak- ing seriously.\ The CDC also recommends you bring copies of your resume, but you can always network. This is especially true for non-seniors. Companies tend to have all sorts of openings available that are not full-time jobs. It is a great opportunity for un- derclassmen to look for·a summer job or internship in their field. Sometimes it just helps to even in- troduce yourself and talk with rep- resentatives for a while. Strike up a good conversation and follow up by sending a thank you note or let- ter, and they may well remember you down the road when you are a senior looking for a job. Continued •on page 5 The voices ofUnion College stu- dents as well as those of students from other campuses are heaid throughout the book. When Professor Gmelcll was asked what section of the book she thought was most beneficial, she could not pick out one and said her main objective in writing the book was to heighten awareness of and sensitivity to the issues stu- dents themselves had indicated are important. She hopes the book will pro- vide insight both for students who are experiencing difficulty and for those who simply want to increase their knowledge ofthe impact gen- der currently has on college life. Another personal objective was to clarify what feminism is: an im- portant intellectual and social movement that has significantly changed the lives of men and women for the better. Gmelch is a Professor ofAatruo· pology and for several years was tlfu director of Union College's Wqmen'S' \Studies- Progratn; Site has been interviewed about the book on National Public Radio's \Fifty-One Percent\ and \To the Best of Our Knowledge\ as well as by local newspapers, radio, and television. In December she will travel to India, where she will speak about gender issues on American cam- puses at three universities. Union Mourns a Friend by Brooke Barylick News Editor To employ someone who excels at his or her job and enjoys that occupation is a wonderful find. Union College employed a person of this caliber until recently. I spoke with a friend of mine the other day. He shared with me a story that had particular sign ifi- cance to this article. He described an evening on which he played intramural broom ball. Being that he was a novice player, he was not quite familiar with the game and unfortunately suffered a severe chin laceration that required a trip to the Ellis Hospital Emergency Room. He was escorted there by.a. security guard named Lori Macintyre. Lori stayed there with him for three andahalfhours while Conti11ued on page 4

&'Our greatest glory is not in never failing, hut in rising up '- ~ News: Will Fiji Serve U? Page 3 Swenson Speaks Page 5 World News: TheDemiseo Leadership Page 6 Op/Ed: Thoughts on Greek Life Page 8 every time we fail~ ,, -.Emerson .. , mn 7- Issues for College Women Professor Sharon Gm,elch takes a close look at real problems and questions on campus. by Brooke Barylick News Editor First year students must deal with many issues upon entering cotlege, including the emotional stresses of leaving horne and ad- justing to an unfamiliar social en- vironment. Most new students discuss tllese problems with parents or older siblings whose knowledge comes from their own experience. These conversations usually help ease the burden, but they cannot anticipate everything a new stu- dent will face. What about dealing with race? What about sexual iden- tity and homophobia? What about cases of discrimination in the class- room? Such issues are rarely dis- cussed, yet their impact on college students can be tremendous. Sharon Gmelch realized this af- ter lis1ening to students in her classes and decided to write a book on the topic. Gender on Campus: Issues for College Women (Rutgers University Press, 1998) is an excel- lent book that addresses the sub- jects mentioned above along with many others. Its purpose and use is twofold: as a text for introduc- tory classes in Women's Studies Paul D' Annibale/TC The cover ofSharon Gmelch :S book on Women s Issues. TI1e voices ofUnion College stu- dents as well as those of students from other campuses are heard throughout the book. When Professor Gmelch was asked what section of the book she thought was most beneficial, she could not pick out one and said her main objective in writing the book was to heighten awareness of and sensitivity to the issues stu- dents themselves had indicated are important. She hopes the book will pro- vide insight both for students who are experiencing difficulty and for those who simply want to increase their knowledge of the impact gen- der currently has on college life. Another personal objective was to clarify what feminism is: an im- portant intellectual and social movement that has significantly changed the lives of men and women for the better. Gmelch is a Professor of Anthro- pology and for several years was the director of Union College's Women's Studies Program. She has been interviewed about the book on National Public Radio's \Fifty-One Percent\ and \To the Best of Our Knowledge\ as well as by local newspapers, radio, and television. ,...-----------~' and, because it is written in an easy The book has four main sections (Gender Issues on Campus, Deal- ing With Diversity, Sexuality and the Body, College and Beyond), each broken down into chapters. Each chapter discusses an issue, from language and sports to eat- ing disorders and sexual assault, then ends with a section of facts, suggestions for things that stu- dents can do to change a situation if they are unsatisfied with it, and, finally, resources for further infor- mation, such as videos and books as well as organizations one can join. In December she will travel to India, where she will speak about gender issues on American cam- puses at three universities. Football: Special Teams step it up to lead Union to a 34-14 w1n Page 17 . . \\ ~ l ' . - . • .. - ,·_ ... ,; . • ·. CtJfJJPU:~. ~~Jf?~·~.t.:~·: · .· ;:r~? 0 >:i1)/ 'i-·~ 1 ~:;~,:~c·:.·.;i-:. .. - ~- -rr.::-4 _ ,__;JU- -=-J?;:~• ~--ry:~,:- ... ( - .. u.- ... _ ~:~:- -'\ ~ ·~ :; '., :.'. ,. ·.- /i'' ,, · o 'ittio1ts\~ 'i8\\' · ·· '';' .. •· .. · .. 'll .. f,•' ,':':,·•;(.: .. :<,:£'.•;i.?'''i''\ :, '' .· Fealiire~.~.·~;JJii.: .. ::. ··. .. . .. ., , .. · .. ·, f!~p11'1l~t.(JiY'';.i·!2··' .. ,-~ ;~·:-:~~-~- t\:~:- , __ ,_ ': ~::·:~.-<' ~:~-:, · .. 1<-: t~ :. _; __ :' :' '-.~;-_ .. ':: .. __ ::-_: .. <· · ... >· •• .A,.> , .,Jf·E::\·· ;i':,:.;;:J''. ·,.:Ji·'·''. : ... :, .. ,, ' -.1',·_ ., ___ ,.~ •. -.; .~,,~~;·, __ ¥._;:· ... ->·- • ::·;· > • , • •. < • • ; , ~ •.••• ). • , .:.' ;\' ', • ,.•.-.,. :•;_, 0 :-: .-:_ .' - : • : >,;' -. f •. - v; : > • ' {', '-'( ~ -.;~~~ • • .;~·- .: .. ·.·.·•··· ~··~-e~~~q;~g~;i,.:;:. - ~ '7\',u,;· .. ·r· '>'ifti:m~~:·/~~~ 1 ~; .. 1,: ,·\· ~- ~~LEI~.. At:& .. : ~·~~-,£~~t· and often entertaining style, as an informational guide to assist stu- dents dealing with such issues. What The Future May Hold ... by Shaun P. Montana Staff Writer Today, from l2:00to4:00 PM in the Fieldhouse, Union's Career De- velopment Center presents its 20th annual Career Festival. This year the festival features over 80 com- panies and graduate schools who accepted invitations to attend. The planning process for this event runs from eatly April until right up to the event, held once a year near the end of September. There is the possibility of a non- profit career fair in the spring to highlight service organizations, but today's fest is your one op- portunity this school year to see what kind of job offers for seniors and internships, co-ops and sum- mer jobs for freshmen, sopho- mores, and juniors are available. This year there are more compa- nies and graduate schools sched- uled to be in attendance than ever before. In fact, according to Shelly Career Fest '98 Shinebarger of the CDC, \We had some people who we didn't send invitations to call and ask if there was room for them to come.\ Many engineering firms and consulting firms will be in atten- dance, but this event is by no means only for people looking for technical jobs. A wide-range ofbusinesses will be in attendance, as well as gradu- ate schools, including about 15 law schools. And you aren't exactly limited by what you see, either. \If you're going by and you see an investment banking table, for ex- ample, and you're looking into hu- man resources jobs, don't hesitate to go up and ask if you can get information to get in touch with their human resources depart- ment,\ explained Joanne Tobiessen, director of the CDC, encourages. The types of companies present are a reflection of the current job market, and of Union students themselves. \Many companies tend to be impressed by Union stu- dents, the way they dress and carry themselves,\ Tobiessen relates. \That's why it's important to come dressed appropriately, if possible. Then employers can readily see that this is something you are tak- ing seriously.\ The CDC also recommends you bring copies of your resume, but you can always network. This is especially true for non-seniors. Companies tend to have all sorts of openings available that are not fu 11-time jobs. It is a great opportunity for un- derclassmen to look for a summer job or internship in their field. Sometimes it just helps to even in- troduce yourself and talk with rep- resentatives for a while. Strike up a good conversation and follow up by sending a thank you note or let- ter, and they may well remember you down the road when you are a senior looking for a job. Conti11ued on page 5 Union Mourns a Friend by Brooke Barylick News Editor To employ someone who excels at his or her job and enjoys that occupation is a wonderful find. Union College employed a person of this caliber until recently. I spoke with a friend of mine the other day. He shared with me a story that had particular signifi- cance to this article. He described an evening on which he played intramural broom ball. Being that he was a novice player, he was not quite familiar with the game and unfortunately suffered a severe chin laceration that required a trip to the Ellis Hospital Emergency Room. He was escorted there by a security guard named Lori Macintyre. Lori stayed there with him for three and a halfhours while Continued on page 4

Campus 'Life· Announcements Page 2 • September 24, 1998 • dtnnenrni~nsis On October 1, Thursday at 4:00 p.m. There' will be an e:xplana- tion of Law School Applications and personal statement by Pro- -----------------...--------------------1 fessor Weiner. This will be held in the Career Development Cen- Security Incident Report MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, l998THROUGII SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1998 DATEITIME LOCATION MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1998: 12:25 PM 2:00PM 4:17PM 4:42PM 5:10PM 5:21 PM 8:53PM 10:50 PM 11:37 PM West College Campus Operations Alexander Lane Davidson Vale Cemetery Schaffer Library Raymond House Lamont & Wells Lots Schaffer Library basement TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1998: NO SERIOUS INCIDENTS REPORTED. WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1998: 5:56PM 10:17 PM Boathouse WadeLupe THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17,1998: 12:10 AM Huron Str~et 1:50AM WestCoJlegearea 10:30 AM Edwards House 2:24PM Campus Safety 2:47PM Humanities area 5:22PM Achilles Rink area FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1998: 4:28AM 1:32PM 5:30PM Richmond Arts Annex Davidson-I ' 1 floor North SATURDAY. SEPTEMBER 19, 1998: 1:31AM 3:03AM 4:44AM 6:25AM 8:28AM 8:30AM II: 18 PM I 1:30PM Bailey Field Raymond House area Fero House Union A venue Library Lane Fieldhouse Lot Flagpole path South Terrace Lane SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1998: 1:52 AM Davidson-3m floor south INCIDENT TRESPASS: Vendor placing advertisements on cars. Advised off campus. ·· THEFT: Staff member reports cash missing from backpack that was l~ftunattended in an office area. HARASSMENT: Group ofteenagers on roller blades reportedly making inappropriate comments at passers-by. Suspects identi.fied an.d advised off campus. VANDALISM: Lock on.stiudent' s room door damaged .. Lock smith called itt for repair. VANDALISM:· Entry signs defaced by'gratliti. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Extensiye da~age to computer hub equipment in abasement equipment room when: an unidentified fluid was put through an uncapped conduit in the floor above. VANDALISM: Broken window pan~-1\ 1 floor west side. TRESPASS: Advertisements distribu~ed pn parked cars. Vendor notified about campus policy. · · PROPERTY MISSING: Student n:ports wallet missing from backpack t)'nknown if lost or stolen. NOISE COMPLAINT: Residentcomplaint regarding loud music. NOISE COMPLAINT: Resident reported noise.disturbance from student apartments. .. NOISE COMPLAINT: Resident complaint regarding continuing problem with noise and disorderly conduct at residence occupied by _students. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Studenfs vehicle being operated in a reckless manner. Damage to lawn area. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Fire extinguisher in kitchen discharged. PARKING VIOLATION:. Upperclassman attempting to register a vehicle for a freshman. Conduct Charges filed. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Student reports suspect attempted to sell drugs. Officers thoroughly checked campus for suspect matching description provided. Suspect not located. THEFT: Student's unattended back pack was stolen. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Non-resident found sleeping in hallway. Conduct charges filed for substance abuse-underage drinking. THEFT: Power saw left unattended was stolen during lunch break. TRESPASS: Two juvc.miles wandering the building. Suspects located ... they refused to produce identification. SPD contacted ... suspects taken into custody. Suspects got into the building by following a,resident in. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Students urinating on Bailey Field. Conduct Charges filed. DISC>RDERL Y CONDUCT: Shoving match in progress ... window br<>ken during tussle. UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY: Officers responded to an intrusion alann. Three students found in the building. Conduct Charges filed for uoauthmized entry. FOUND PROPERTY/FORGERY: Student's wallet found off campus. Inventory of wallet turned up a forged NYS driver's license. Conduct Charges filed. VANDALISM: Support for college banner damaged. Apparent attempt to steal the banner. VANDALISM: Student's car windshield damaged by stones. TRESPASS: Three visitors loitering on campus. Identified and advised off campus. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Student became ill due to consumption of alcoholic beverage. Transported to Ellis Hospital. Conduct Charges filed. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odor of marijuana reported•unable to confirm source. ter located on the third floor of Old Chapel for all interested Juniors and Seniors. An ad-hoc committee has been fonried to consider the tenurability of Kareil Brison, Assistant Professor of Anthropology. The committee's members are Sharon Gm(;}lch (Anthropology), Chris Duncan (Visual Arts), Julius Barbanel (Mathematies),and Bruce Reynolds (Economics), Chair. Any member ofthe campus com- munity wishing to offer written or oral testimony concerning Pro- fessor Brison' s teaching, scholarship or college service should contact Professor Reynolds (x6217, reyrtoldb@union.edu)or any other member of the committee. An ad-hoc committee has been fonned to consider the tenurability of Ronald Bucinell, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engi- neering. The committee's members are Cherrice Traver (EE/ CS), Richard Wilk (Mechanical Engineering), Jill Salvo (Biology) · and Robert Wells (History), Chair. Any member ofthe campus , community wishing to offer written or oral testimony concerning Professor Bucinell =S teaching, scholarship or coi'Iege service shoutd contact Professor Wells (x6223, wellsr@union.edu) or any other 'member ofthe committee. An ad-hoc committee has been formed to considerthetenurability of Ashraf Ghaly, Assistant Profess<>r of Civil Engineering. The committee' smembers are Mohammad Mafi (Civil Engineering), , Rudy Nydegger (GMI), Yu Chang(EE/CS) and Karl Zimmermann . (Mathematics), Chair. Any member of the campus community wishing to ·offer written or .oral testimony concerning Professor Ghaly' s teaching, scholarship or college service should contact . Professor Zimmermann (x6192, zimmermk@union.edu) or any other member of the committee. An ad-hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenurability of Stephen Horton, Assistant. Professor of J?iology. The committee' s members are Barbara Danowski (Biology), Tom Jewell (Civil Engineering), Leslie Hull (Chemistry) a.t1d Harold ·Fried (Economics), Chair .. Any member of the campus commu- nity wishing to offer written or oral testimony concerning Profes- sor Horton 'steaching; scholarship or college service should con- tact Professor Fried (x6368, friedh@union.edu) or any other mem- ber of the committee. An ad-hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenurability of Yoshimitsu Khan, Assistant Professor of Japanese. The committee's members are Scott Scullion (Classics), John Spinelli (EE/CS), Victoria Martinez (Modern Languages) and James Lambrinos (GMI), Chair; Any member of the campus commu- nity wishing to offer written or oral testimony concerning Profes- sor Khan' s teaching, scholarship or college service should con- tact Professor Lambrinos (x6253, lambrinj@union.edu) or any other member of the committee. An ad-hoc committee has been formed to considerthetenurability of Amanda Leamon, Assistant Professor of French. The committee's members are Jordan Smith (English), Michael Rudko (EE/CS), Pilar Moyano (Modem Languages) and Martin Strosberg (GMI), Chair. Any member of the campus community wishing to offer written or oral testimony concerning {>rofessor Leamon' s . teaching, scholarship or college service should contact Professor Strosberg (x.6299, strosbem@union.edu)or any other member of the committee. ALPHA EPSILON PI is· undergoing evaluation by the Stu- dent Affairs Council for renewal of their housing privileges. Any member of the College communiy who would like to submit com- ments about this house is encouraged to do so. The SAC is primarily concerned with the two questions: Does this group use their house to improve the cultural, intellectual, in- tellectual and social life of the campus?; and Is the collective lifestyle of the house conductive to academic achievement? The SAC asks that comments are written and that the author attach her/his name. Please send comments to : SAC c/o Prof. Jim Adrian, Chair Chemistry Dept. Or SAC c/o Dean of Students Office ( ..... ca ev sh pe dil re1 Ro th( Ur ho sai car fro Bo Ric leg c Art the pre! slid Adr duCI pre: thro F1 ofpl her' fleet pho ever pact goal with stir 1 in or ofth s addi othe role Ano1 unde sign: migt Well wher stick He sion nectt: withe phys noto tain 1 the\' Fn pears Instit sente trave: his in His f fathe1 more quest swer. ated ~ on th,

Campus News Campus Operations at Work moves schedul~d by AD and Ad- that arise during various sporting by ~rooke Barylick missions. The Parker Rice Estate events. News Editor proved to be the perfect spot be- Among the projects nearing there are various proje:ets on cause of its beauty and convenient completion are the construction of . campus that.are qliite visible. How- location near campus. a disabled access ramp and inte- • · ever, .some exist that are not, and In addition to this reova:tion, rior renovationstoOld Chapel, the should be recognized. Much hap- President Hull announced that the exterior masonry work and repair . pens at Union College due to the guest house will be converted into of windows at Alumni Gymnasium, · diligent work of the Campus Op- a theme house for students. Both the renovations ofLibrary Plaza to · erations staff. Their eff(!rts add to are expected to be operational by add pavers, benches,. stairs ancl • <!Lnncnr.biensis• September 24, 1998 • Page 3 Grant Sends Union Group to Study Brain Injury by Tom Marino Contributing Writer the beauty and success of t:b:e next fall. ramps and, finally, the exterior . On September 11, Professor school. Union has also received a permit painting of Social Sciences and Carol Weisse and six seniors has received worldwide recogni- tion because it was one of the first to illustrate the close relationship between personality and frontal lobe brain function. Phineas Gage's case has als<.> contributed to philosophical discussions re- gar,ding the mind/body relation- ship. To begin, plans are underway to from the city to build a 40 cat park- Humanitie_s. · (Megan Ciani, Nicole Cione, Tom renovate two homes on Lenox ing lot east of Achilles Rink at the Another project in the works in- Marino, Kafi Sanders, Wayne Road. \The Parker Rice House,. on former site ofthe Delta Phi house. volves the tenni's courts by Roffer, and Dana Weinkranz) set the corner of Lenox Road and Delta Phi was torn down this sum- Schaffer Library and Humanities. , off for Cavendish, Vennont to at· Union Avenue, and its guest mer due to its poor condition and These will be removed to allow for . tendtheJohnMartyn Harlow Fron- house, have eventful futures,\ vacancy. greenspace. Twomorewi1lbecon- · tal Lobe Symposium thanks to This symposium offered a truly unique opportunity for students to hear neurologists, neurosurgeons, and psycholo- gists speak about brain damage and personality change. saidDavidGrzybowski,director of It is the hope of the college that structed closer to the existing . funding from the first Intellectual campus operations. the parking lot will be completed courts by Kappa Alpha to replace Enrichment Grant of the year. The The College received permits before the start of hockey season. the ones that are removed. symposium was organized in rec- fronlthe Schene.ctadyCity Zoning Twenty more spots for parking All of these improvements have ognition ofthe 150th anniversary Board of Appeals to use Parker were also added east of Memorial bettered the appearance and ap- of Phineas Gage, one of the most Rice as the new location for col- Field House that have already peal of Union College and are famous historical cases of brain According to Weisse, \This was clearly a once in a lifetime oppor- tunity for our students, as they were able to hear from brain spe- cialists and historians from all over the world. What made the sympo- sium,even more special was that it was held in a quaint and quiet area of V ennont. The students and I stayed at a beautiful, old inn that offered an ideal environment for quarity student-faculty discourse. It is opportunities like these that make Union stand out with regard to faculty-student interactions. We are very grateful that President Hull decided to renew funding for these intellectual enrichment grants and thank the committee for supporting this unique experi- ence.\ lege relations because of the eased some the parking problems greatly appreciated by all. injury. __.:;.._.._..___..,.....__.. _____________ ....,.... ___________ ........, ___________ ,. Phineas Gage was a railroad Love of Science ... Through Artistic Expressions worker who on September 13, 1848 survived an accident whereby a three-foot long iron rod passed through his head. Although mo- mentarily stunned from the acci- dent, Gage was able to talk and walk immediately thereafter. However, in time, Gage was reported to be a different man. The accident trans- fonnedhim from a responsible, well- respected leader to an ill-tempered, irrational man with a penchant for profanity and lies. The dramatic personality changes that occurred as a result of this accident sparked research on the relationship be- tween brain and behavior. The case A Favorable Review of the Nott Exhibit . by Lisa Bla11stein ·Contributing Writer On September 17, \Into Focus: Art in Science\ was presented at the Nott Memorial. This amazing presentation included lectures and slide shows of scie11ce and art. · •·. . Adrienn~ Klein, the cunitor, intr(}- . duced the tmique people who ex~ press~d their I ove ~f science through art. Felice Frankel met her passi<>n ofphotography in 1991 and claims her work is not art but merely are- flection ofthe·world arotind us. Her photographs capture the little events in the laboratory that im- pact our lives dramatically. Her goal is to attract people unfamilar with these impm:tant events - to stir up fascination and curiosity- in order for them to gain knowledge of the world we live in, She has photographed protein, adding dye for beauty, to invite others to investigate the important role this nutrient plays in our lives. Another cool slide was scotch tape under a microscope expressing the significance of adhesion. You might ask why is that so important. Well, this 'same adhesion is seen when cancer cells metabolize and stick to organs. Her view on her unique profes,. sion is that everything is con- nected: people would not exist without biology, chemistry, and physics. Yet her photos capture not only lab results but also a cer- tain beauty that makes the world the way it is. Francois Deschamps' work ap- pears in muesuems such as the Art Institute of Chicago and has pre- sented opportunities for him to travel to places like Fiji to pursue his interests of math and science. His focus at this lecture was his father. His father used to say:'It is more important to ask the right question than to get the right an· swer.\ Francois and his wife ere• ated a six-foot-long pop-out book on the good versus bad found in Paul D'AnnibalefTC The exhibit at the Nott provided artistic impressions. science. The good affects are ob- viously things like antibiotics and inventions; however, it is in labs that ideas like biological and chemi- cal warfare are constructed. His fascination stems from the double- edged twist of science. He finds much arnusement in weaving cre- ativity with little experiments such as making designs on t~ast and toasting it- needless to say, the bizarre pictures oftoast in art form in the slide show were quite funny! The fmal speaker was a woman who encompasses more creativity and diverse views than anyone I have ever seen. Eve Andree Laramee is an instillation artist and sculpter. Her works are found all over the US and in Europe. Her work plays with puns and chal- lenges concepts dealing with ap- proximation, error, and chance. Her largest experiment was one of self- exploration. She was asked to show her work at a museum, but instead told them she wanted to display a scientist Pictured From Left to Right are Wayne Roffer, she worked for in college who had Megan Ciani, Professor Weisse, Tom Marino, Kafi recently died. The work consisted Sanders, P.ana Weinkranz and Nicole Cione of paintings, furniture, and his 1--------...;__.......,. ____________ _ ideas. After speaking to audiences about her display and answering questions to the New York Times and the Long Island Edition, she began to believe heriie! This sci- entist never existed - it was her work all along! This is the frrst time the public has been notified through newspaper of her secret. Her present project is taking place in Germany: making parks on trucks. Each moving park repre- sents a different theme: one has poisonous and nonpoisonous plants and another has real and fake plants. These designs revolve around humor and contradiction. Felice, Francois, and Eve's work are all on exhibit at the Nott until October 11. It is worth viewing be- cause you'll learn something new about yourself and your surround- ings through the artistic perspec- tives ofthese three individuals. Attention All Union Students: Come tonight to Theta Delta Chi (Edwards House) at 7 PM as Professors Fox and Greenberg will debate the Clinton- Lewinsky Sex Scandal. Come and voice your opinions on this issue.



e s s Campus News O!.ttttc.O\rmett!Ji!Si • ·september 24, 1998 • Page 5 Wilson Fellow Karen Swenson Reads Works to Union Community ----------~~~--- by ])avid Kay Opinions £ditor Last Monday, at 8 p~m. in Cam .. pus Center, Woodrow Wilson Fel- low Karen Swenson spoke in the auditorium of the Campus Center on her most recent wotk The Land- lady in Bangkok; a collection of original poetry. Swenson is both a poet and journalist and was a win- nerofthe 1993 National Poetry Se- ries competition .. MuGh of her P.Oetry from The Landlady in Bangkok has to do with her travels through Southeast Asia, and have been described by critics as \lurid striking, and some- times disturbing.\ Selections of poetry from the most recent book have been featured in both The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal. Throughout the · week, Swenson has visited classes and met with both faculty and stu- . dents. Swenson is the author of four books, howeyer she described 'her most reyeJ;lt a$ the _deepest and _most person~! to her. ~'It(17ze Land- lady. of Bangkok) starts with my ·mother's death and ends with my father's death,\ she stammered to an audience of no. more than three dozen last Monday night as she suc- cessfuUy roug.ht back tears. \The poetry takes the perspecti·ve of a traveler who is · there, but not there.\ Her last com- ment describes her perspective as a tourist in South- east Asiaofwhich much of the poetry · is about. She described the idea of cultural expectations and . how they are dif- ferent from one so- · One .of her most powerful poems that she read Monday evening was also one of the shortest. Hatch- ing, though only a paragraph in length, described the travesty of a female who was popularly elected top government official in Burma and was then n()t only lowered from that position, but also placed under house ar- rest. The poem dis- ' plays the failure of ., ... ,.,.,, '\?!;;:•.N · · popular government in Burma for failing to al- low a woman to hold power. Other powerful po- ems that Swenson read Monday night in- cluded \Stalking Lemers, The Landlady of Bangkok, We, and ciety to the next. Fromthatcomment she proceeded to read the first poem, \Saga of a Small Breasted Woman,'' a first person per- spective about how she has even- File Photo Orangutan Re(labs.\ Swenson describes Swenson spoke of her latest book, The Landlady in Bangkok \The Landlady of ------------=---..:::... __________ Bangkok, as a fic- tually grown content with her small cleavage despite the great tional piece derived from an at- cultural expectations for large tempted conversation that she breasts. had with a Southeast Asian woman. Swenson then described the ba- sis for \We\ by explaining the atrocities of former Vietnamese leader PoiPot. The poem is set in Ho Chi Mihn City (formerly Saigon) and displays hew the lead- ers promised immediate change of Cominunism, but could not deliver on that supposed promise. Shere- lated the story of an ,intellectual who burned his glasses because Pol Pot and the new government sought to seek out and kill all learned people. \Orangutan Rehabs\ is a femi- nist poem making synonymous the condition of Orangutans to that of women. It describes the condition of the animals as \locked within the boundaries of three waiis\ and as being \caged.\ Overall, the audience gained a greater perspective not only on poetry and creative writing in gen- eral, but also on Southeast Asia and the condition ,of women. Swenson shared insight on the broad depths of creativity as we understand the source of her four books. Union students and professors alike welcome Swenson's return for future dates. Care.er Fest 1998 0 en ForuiD Notes FroiD 9/14 . , r r; ••• continued from page 1 And landing art internship or summer job may very well lead to a job offer. \A lot ofcompanies these days like to use internships andsUinmer jobs to get a first look at people who might be potential employees. If you fit in with the company well, they may want you to come.workfull time for them,\ Shinebatger says. . Another thing companies like is when students know some background infonnation on their org~ization. \On the CDC web page, there is a listing of all com- panies and graduate schools which will be in attendance,. with links to all of their respective web pages,\ Tobiessen says. \Repre- sentatives are impressed if you've done you're homework on them.\ Thenumberofalumniwho will be present gives Union students· one more advantage. It creates a great opportunity to network~ es- pecially if you can establish com~ mon ground with an alum. And of course, tnake sure you follow up a good conversation with some kind ofthank: you note. \And be sure to ask for a busi- ness card,\ Tobiessen stresses. Many of the companies will be participatin~ on..,campus recruit- ing/interviewing but not all, so \it's important to get their infor- mation and make contact with them now.\ With regards to on-campus re- cruiting, Tobiessen. says, \We have a number of programs planned throughout fall term to enable students to talk with alumni and potential employeers;'' so keep your eyes open. And she reminds seniors to \give a resume as a way of introduction, and make sure you tum in one resume per company on Friday to the CDC to participate in on-campus recruit- ing/interviewing.\ Mqst importantly, take advan- tage of the opportunity offered, ar;td don't pass it by. You never · know what you may find if you keep your options open .. Meeting called to order 7:00pm Absent-Edelman Chaplin Motion to Approve Agenda . Casola-Second Motion passed - All in favor Markowski- Motion to Approve . Minutes (from 9/7/98 meeting) Motion passed-All in favor Finance -Parisi- 8 ofthe 70 clubs attended meeting on9/ll/98 Com- puter training on 9/14, 9/15, 9/17 Academics-Lynch- Club reps as- signed. Applications available for committees. · Drown to Lynch-Consider Term Abroad when doing committees for nextyear. Campus Life-Roache- Fall Fest lO/ 16- 10/17. Edge on 9/16. Campus Mini Golf- 9/17. Aeademics-Mondlick- 4 tenure tracks for Minorities. Where should they be? Proposal to change from -------- ........ ----------------1 Trimesterto Semester. Will request Write for Concordiensis! Co1ne to a 1neeting today, Thursday, at 6:30 in R{!oln 303 of the College· Center. All are welco~ne. Student vote. Looking at schedule change history Pres. Hull wants perfect proposal for semesters. Mentioned common lunch conges- tion in Campus Center. Lemle- ProfMcCarty reported that she could not attend because she · needed the common lunch time to eat, not to have meetings. Multicultural-Bennett- Coalition · · of clubs to form. Got list of club · Presidents. Trustees- Zandman- 7th week Freshman elections.Soph Rush menlo sent to Trustees. President Wierzbieniec- Meeting to Discuss Soph Rush -9/15-4:30 and 91.21-12:15. · IFCand PanHel-Drown- Proposal Approved by Hull. Goal of pro- posal was reform. New committee to be established. Markowski- Motion to extend dis- cussion on Soph Rush 5 more min- utes. Motion passed -aU in favor. Drown-Legistics ofSoph Rush to be worked out. Markowski-Motion to extend dis- cussion on Soph Rush 10 more minutes. Cbaplin~Second Motion passed- all in favor. Markowski- Who is on new com- mittee? Aloan- Will Theme House recruit- ment be explored? THC- Mallach- 7th week -recruit- ment. Lemle concern for drop in Greek Houses if students already in Theme House. Mallach-Motion to extend the dis- cussion I 0 more minutes-elapse at 7:25. Roache-Second Motion passed-all in favor. Lypch-Motion to move the ques- tion-end discussion. Second Motion passed -all in favor. Mallach- WellnessTheme House- The Locker Room Basement ofF ox All male -many? To be explored . Senior-Chaplin- Hospital Pants profit $250 this weekend. Home- corning. Senior Night at Chets Thursdays. Junior-Barry- Tailgate Party for RPl Game. Sell cups at Block Party during Fall Festival. GET AWAY WEEKEND. Soph-Aioan-Sell Cowbells w~th Union Slogan for hockey game. Fatuity Lynch- Extend Library Hours. SAC-Chaplin -Semester system. Soph Rush exploration. Enforce Drinking Policy. Card Access to Dorms. Gender Equity Housing- Presently 350 sq ftper male, 50 sq ft per female. Parking. Sugges- tions- Library Hours, Gym Hours, Air Conditioning. Forum Consultants- Retreat re- scheduled for 10/9/98 and I 0/1 0/ 98. Info to be distributed at later date. Zandman -Motion to suspend rules for Markowski item. Motion passed-all in favor. New Business-Markowski- 9/25 Homecoming, Pep Rally. Alumni want BBQrTGIF Dinner. Markowski-Motion to approve Pearse request to dose upperclass ftom5-7pm. Zandman-Second Motion passed- all in favor. Lynch-Motion to Adjourn passed Meeting adjourned at 8:04pm.

Page 6 • September 24, 1998 • Ol11mmbitusi!6 World News The Declining Virtue of Leadership by Heather Clements Staff Writer Franklin Delan~ Roosevelt, Mohandas Gandhi, Martin Luther King, Jr., Mother Teresa, Winston Churchill- all weEe national illld international heroes that shaped the twentieth century. All could be admired as paragons of mflral leadership, heroes who served as role models for a generation of people. I think about my pare11ts and grandparents and the stories they would tell about these lead- ers: how my grandmother revered FOR for helping to end the Great Depression, how my mother lauded Mother Teresa's efforts to help the poor, and how my fatlur sought out antique books stores to read copies of Winston Churchill's writings about Great Britain refusing to surrender to tl!e Nazis. Whole generations of peoi>le cherished their leaders with a sense of admiration and awe that is rarely expressed today. This g;<>t me thinking about th~_role oflea<J,. ership in today' s society. Who do we esteem with the love and grati- tude that so many felt for Gandhi or Dr. King? Who are our moral paragons? Who inspires us to re- focus on the positive qualities that make us human? Who are our he- roes? I am sure that no one wants to hear about Monica Lewinsky or Bill Clinton or Ken Starr anymore. I surely do not. But it is disheart- ening that I have become so ut- terly disgusted by our President\ s behavior that I just do not ~are anymore. I do not care to read any more reports or see any more tes- timony. I know \Bill Clinton is a womanizer, an adulterer, and a liar. J know that he has publicly embar- rassed the nation, shamedhis wife, and caused his daughter to drop out ofcollege. However, I have become so de- sensitized to his behavior and the repugnant behavior of so many politicians, that I have lost faith in most of our leaders. It is not sur- prising anymore that our leaders are uaethical, we expect it. And whether the low opinions of our leaders is media generated or the character of politi.cians has just fallen over time, it still results in the sad fact that few, ifany, of our. leaders are truly loved and re- spected. And almost none could be called heroes. So who are our heroes? Many children today name athletes as their heroes. However it is often these same athletes that become headline stories, accused of rape, murder, beating their wives, trash- ing hotel rooms, and other illegal ac;:tivities. How can we forget the \Trial of the Century,\ where the O.J. Simpson civil case verdict gar- nered more interest that the President's \State of the Union\ speech? And despite a prepon- derance of evidence suggesting that Simpson had brutally mur- dered two people, many Americans still called Simpson their\hero.\ Even the less controversial ath- letes often fall short of my defini- tion ofhero. I think it is outrageous that so many athletes demand multi-million dollar endorsement contracts knowing full well what advertisers will do to fmdtheextra money to pay them. During the early 1990s, while Nike dishec;iout exorbitant salaries to athletes it also paid its workers in Taiwan below the living wage andsickenedthem with toxic production chemicals. While Oprah Winfrey may ex- pound on why Tiger Woods is ''America's son\ and children should respect him as a hero, I find it difficult to call someone my hero who knowingly excepts millions of dollars from a company that causes lifelong healthproblems and death fov its poorest workers abroad. Not to mention endorsing a com- pany that portrays the \swoosh\ as such a status symbol in the ghettos that children kill each other to obtain it. So who are our heroes? Enter- tainers, would be the answer by .some. The National Enquirer would not be one of the biggest selling newspapers in the United States if people did not hold celeb- rities i1J such high esteem. The fact that m.illions of Americans can tell you about Bruce, Demi, Arnold, and Cher solely by their first names proves how saturated our culture is with celebrity idols. Unfortu- nately, many celebrities fall short of the real status of\hero\ .. . How can we call movie actors who glorify the use of guns, mis• siles, tanks, or other high tech kill- ing devices to mmihilate as many people as possible (even if they are the bad guys) our heroes? Why do the movies with the most things being blown up, sunk, set on fire, crashed ipto, or otherwise de- stroved make rather lackluster . people into national heroes? I have a hard time sharing the title \hero th.at was once given to Socrates, Thomas Jefferson, and Abraham Lincoln, with Leonardo DiCaprio or Sylvester Stallone. So who are our heroes if Bill Clinton, national leaders, athletes, and entertainers cannot carry the name \hero\ with the dignity, in- teHigence, and integrity ·of past heroes? I wonder who I would say is my hero. I wonder what stu- dents applying to college are writ- ing on their \Who do you admire most and why?\ essays. I think that \hero\ is a term that many of us could apply to our family, friends, teachers, and community members on a small scale~ But try- ing to distinguish larger scale he- roes, people to lead our nation and our world, is difficult, ifnot impos- sible today. It is tragic that we can- not readily identity individuals who are leading our world in the most111oral, intelligent, and digni- fied manner. So who are the world's heroes today? Sadly, most of us can iden- tify leaders of the world who mas- querade as heroes while subvert- ing basic human rights, but few of us could probably name three world leaders who embody the es- sence ofpast heroes like Susan B. Anthony, Frederick Douglass, or Plato. Is there not something funda- mentally wrong with a world in which millions of people hail Sad dam Hussein, Osama Bin Laden, and the genocidal leaders in the former Yugoslavia as their heroes? Why do we have to stop and think about who the world's virtuous heroes are today? The United States, as the world leader, should selectj$8 leaders to be role models, heroes, for the world. We should recognize our position as the main proponent for fundamental human rights world- wide, as the leader in supporting individual liberties, as the shining example for all democratic govemm ments, as a symbol of excellence that should be led in a heroic man- ner. And the best way to foster a heroic nation is to encourage it to be led by heroic people. We need to stop ()Ur emphasis on the media .glitz and glameur and start asking ourselves why we are pushing the trUly deserving heroes of this countries like Colin Poweli (fonner leader oftbe Joint Chiefs of Staff.and campaignerfor America's children), David Ho (AIDS re- searcher), Jody Williams (Nobel Prize winner for herwork to restrict land mines), and Norman Schwartzkopf (Gulf War General) into the background. And why are we exchanging them for power- hungry, media-savvy, leaders of government, s.cience, and industzy, who have more in commqn with soap opera actors than the truly virtuous heroes of the past? As Americans who live in the best nation in the world, why are we settling for such poor excuses for heroes when we could be get- ting more involved in the political process, voting in better leaders, seeking out more m0ral politi.cians, rejecting corruption in political of- ficials, and encouraging people who are truly her<lic to serve in higher office? I do believe that apathy in our political processes,. declining faith in our lead.ers, and a lessening of standards for our politicians is harming both our nation and our world. There is no excuse why Americans should not be led hy great leaders wllo they can he proud of and who iheycan call their heroes. · · I sincerely hope that soon !he unethical political charades will~nd and America, ·as well as the world, will fmd true moral and intellectual paragons to guide us towards a more heroic age ofh:urnan progress. Albanians Face Military Threat i:D Kosovo by Kristie Centi Contributing Writer With the approach of winter, 50,000-100,000 refugees are now living in the coldest part of the Kosovo mountains and about 10,000 more are fleeing to the hills. These refugees not only face the threat of Serbian attacks, but also starvation and hypothermia. In the region of Kosovo, 90% are ethnic Albanians who are fight- ing to restore autonomy. However, their protests have faced opposi- tion. On Wednesday oflast week, Serbian forces led a major offen- sive attack against the radical Kosovo Liberation Army. The Serb forces shelled 12 villages in the northern part of Kosovo. Thousands of refugees fled feel- ing disappointed and scared of the death and destruction that sur- rounds them. \Everyday people are more tired, more sick and more hungry,\ said Anthea Webb of the World Food Frogram in Pristina. Many of the ethnic Albanian refugees that are dispersed throughout the densely populated hills have been there for over 6 months. The distribution of aid in the Kosovos by humanitar- ian agencies is difficult due to the constant moving that is done by fhe refugees. In any attempt the agencies try t() bring them wheat flour, cooking oil, family packs, daily ratio11s .of baby food, clothes, blankets, and stoves. Although the Serbian gov- ernment has been urging the refu· gees to return home, many are he~i­ tant due to the increase in perse- cution and killing. The concern· caused by this dis- pute has forced the intemationa:I community to cooperate in order to resulve the humanitarian crisis within the-region. The international aid workers cautioned ofan immi- nent !Iuman disaster in Kosovo in which they warned that only a po- litical solution would prevent trag- edy .in the province. On Wednesday the President reaffirmed this idea by pronounc- ing that, \. is imperative that we move forthrightly with our allies as fmnly as possible to avert the hu- manitarian tragedy and then to get to a political solution.\ Moreover, President Clinton and many other international leaders ate warning that a c'major humanitarian disas .. ter\ is imminent without an imme- diate resolution. At their conference in Washing- ton,Czech President Vaclav Havel and Pres-ident Clinton both agreed that the major problem lies ~ithin the Serbian regime. The House International Relations Committee ChainnanBen Gilman, advised that Clinton should move to an \ulti- matum\ to the Yugoslav president to cease the \brutality\ in the at- tacks against the dissident Alba- nians or face military action by NATO. President Clinton spoke of coming towards a resolution when he stated, \We're doing NATO planning and consulting with our allies.\ On Sunday Albanian leaders re- leased a proposal that would re- store peace in the region. The pro- posal would give Kosovo an in- dependent legislature that would be equal to Yugoslayia' s other two republics: Serbia and Montenegro. Additionally, Ibrahim RvaovaJ the Albanian leader, endo'rsed a United States plan that would end warfare and give some autonomy over local affairs to the Albanian 90% majority. The United States' plan intro- duces a three-year interim solution that restores the alltoaomy held by Kosovo Albanians b~for~_J>resi:. dent Slobodan Milosevic revokeo it in 1989.. Rugova opposes an armed str1,1ggle and labels the United States' plan: a starting ground fot peace. After numerous years of fight- ing this settlement is necessary to the Albanian re~gees who are in need of food,'medicine, and a plan that will halt the religious persecu- tion that they are being subjected to. As the world community watches these acts of genocide unfold, the death toll rises, and the power struggle becomes more loopsided in the favor of Serbian forces. w til [( y w at Sl. w iri th m ar G Cl b) 81.1 at it) Pri to He eig wi1 bn asc ] tral be~ to c ecc par a pi in< blo firs Go 1 has cis1 Sial ag<; clo rest Un put oft sel' I

Russian Economic Crisis the global and Russ.ian trend towards by Dan Kirsch privatization of state run industries and the Contributinl{ Writer fact that over 70% of Russia's gross domes'\ ---------------- tic product is now generated by the private For the past several weeks; the Russian sector, many sources say that the Primakov economy has experienced '!.virtual freefall. government is undoubtedly going to pur- This crisis began almost immediately after sue some sort of massive renationalization Russian premier Sergei Kiriyenko sus- program. pended payment on all Russian debts on In fact, Primakov has already said that August 17. there wiU be a govemmenttakeover of the This freefallhas brought down with it the tobacco industry. Moreover, the alcohol well-being of the Russian people and the industry and others are also reported tar- tide ofliberal reform that :has been the norm gets of possible takeovers. for the past seven years. President Boris EMISSION: There is a concern among Y eltsin has since tenninated Kiriyenkoand US economists and administration officials with him many reformist programs. Gone regarding the Russian Central Bank's plan are the capitalist Western-style reformers, to simply print billions ofnew rubles to buy such as fmancial wizard Anatoly Chubais, back government debt from domestic banks who is now one of the principal scapegeats and .topay back wages to many government in this crisis. workers. Chubais was once thought by some to be These government workers include the the true head .of the government due to his entire Russian mHitary that is enonnously mastery of both economic policy and his under-funded. Some ministries, including the apparent manipulation of the president. Ministryof Atomic Energy, simply have not Gone also is longtime Prime Minister Viktor been paid in months. According to most Chemomytdin,. the Russian AI Gore, thought American analysts, this plan will almost cer- by many at different times to be an eventual tainly cause inflation to skyrocket. successor to Y eltsin, due to his (perceived) PRICE CONTROLS: Due to the runaway abilityto bring unity, continuity, and stabil- inflation that is already occuring, and the ity to the Russian government. new inflation that will mi.doubtedly follow Instead, the government is now to be led the emission policy, the government is seek- by Soviet-era KGB head and recent Foreign ~g to artificially keep prices stable by freez- Minister Yevgeny Primakov. Always ing certain prices at their current levels or thought of in most contexts as a \hard-liner lower. PROTECTIONISM: The · Primakov government wants to raise taxes on foreign goods and establish government control over what was the free exchange of goods. This is seen as a natural reflex of a nation being torn apart economica11y. This is also reflected in the governments's decision to · nationalize tobacco, a key source of foreign investment. The apparent decision to restrict debt payment from the emission funds to domestic banks is surely not a welcome sign to US and Eu- ropean banks. Most foreign banks are already feeling the pinch and decided to begin cutting jobs · by the thousands. Blame has been placed squarely on the Clinton Administration by both the left and right wings in American politics. The Left be- lieves this crisis is simply a result ------------------- ofmovingtoofast too soon in this Primakov has represented what was thought to be an anachronism in the government. He was thought a remnant ofthe Soviet for- eign establishment that was to be purged with the coming ofthe new generation. He brought many jaws to the ground upon his ascent to .power. In this new government, Soviet-era Cen- tral Bank Chairman Viktor Geraschenko has been restored to his old post. Also reinstated to a familiar position is a fonner Soviet era economic planner and current Communist party member YuriMaslyukov. Maslyukov' s appointment as First Deputy Prime Minister in charge of economic policy is a significant blow to the hopes of reformers. He is the frrst registered Communist in the Russian Government since Gorbachev. The policy being crafted by Maslyukov has, not surprisingly, heard very little criti- cism from Gennady Zyuganov and his Rus- sian Comtnunist Party. The government's agenda is very much a turning back of the clock, at least in the economic sense. Rep- resentatives of the European Union and the United States have tried to persuade the public otherwise in order to avert any kind of panic, hut the programs speak for them- selves. Some reported ideas include: RENATlONALIZATION: Despite both arena. They assert that we couid have pushed for much slower economic reforms and eventually ended up with a Russia that was Swedish in bent, democratic in process and socialist in practice. The Right believes the US and the IMF should have pulled the plug long ago as the familiar face of corruption began to rear its ugly head. Crony capitalism, the encouragement by the govemment ofcertain companies over gthers, has gone on since the beginning of the Russian reforms several years ago to the point where some monopolies are being encouraged and actively sanctioned (includ- ing Gozprom, the energy monopoly of which Viktor Chemomyrdin is head). Regardless of why they are to blame, most analysts argue that the appointment of Y evgeny Primakov as Russian premier rep- resents a truly ominous event in American and Westem foreign politics. The effects will.surely be felt dwing the coming months, both politically and economically. Those that have gotten used to referring to their nation as a \young democracy\ in Russia will surely feel their heart skip a beat when they begin once again to hear the words \Communist and \government\ all too often in the same sentence. (!l.orunrmeusi5 • September 24, 1998 • Page ~Homacom1df.)8 ..,. .. ---= unioncollege -~· -.7 friday, septenabar 2St\ 5- 7pm: Go U! B-B-Q Come by for a free barbeque .and help add so1TI.e spirit to one of Union's oldest weekends! J ack:son's Garden Concert One of Philadelphia's top cover bands, Loves~one. makes their Union debut to get the rally started! Jackson's Garden Rally Following the concert., help get Union Football psyched for their home game against our rival to the west,. Hobart! Jackson's Garden saturday, septen~ber 26th llam; Volleyball Tournament with Hamilton & Clarkson. Men~.orial Fieldhouse Noon: Women's Soccer Union vs. Vassar. Garis Field lpm: Union Football vs. Hobart Don\t miss what is sure to be a very exciting match.-up as these two riv~ls collide on Frank Bailey Field .. Halftime: Halftime Show Keeps your eyes in the sky for a show like Union has never before seen! 2:30pm: Men's Soccer Union vs. Vassar Garis Field Co-$po nsored by: Interfraternity Council, Panhellenic Council, Student Activities/Program Assistants. & Concert Committee

Page 8 · September 24, 1998 · Oinnrorbiensis The Absent Holiday Where were many Union students and faculty on Mon- day, the 21st of September? Classes were scheduled as usual, but there were noticeable empty desks and even a few vacant podiums. There are probably very few people who realize that it is extremely sacrilegious to do any means oflabor on one of the highest holidays of the year. This past Monday, Jews all over the world celebrated Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year. Many Jews believe it is the day on which G-d completed the creation of the world. (FYI - approximately 38o/o of Union's student body and faculty combined are Jewish) Some of Union's community mem- -···OPfED Opinions bers returned home to their families to have traditional·r-------------------------------------------------------------~ dinnersandattendservicesattemple,.wheretheyheard ThoughtS On Greek Life the resounding shofar. For those who do not know about the holiday the shofar is a rams horn made into a musical instrument whose sound signifies the New Year. The holiday itself is not the main point of this editorial, To the Faculty, Administration, and Students: I did not graduate from Union however. What prompted it was in fact, this Monday's with a fond memory of my educa- holiday. But the truth of the matter is that the college tion. So far in law school, I have does not observe any other holidays either. Since we are enjoyed classes much more than I did overall in the last four years. aware that Union does not recognize any other National Pure and simple, I had a high GPA Holiday, religi()US or otherwise we wanted to get a word through my sophomore year, but I in edge-wise. still wanted to leave Union. I had Surely other ethnic groups, who are growing at Union to go far outside the classroom to find pleasure at a college I now have holidays they would like to observe as well. The love. If, as expected, Sophomore myriad days, including Columbus Day, Good Friday and Rush leads to the end of the Greek Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday are just a few. But the System at Union, where wi11 oth- list goes on and on, and we remain slightly bitter about ers be able to find such satisfac- tion? Certainly not in Schenectady, beginning the 1998-99 academic year on Labor Day. ~andcurrently,notintheclassroom. Although many do not think about George Washington I used to fall asleep in classes be- on his birthday or Lincoln on his, country-wide, people fore, during, and after I pledged take their day off to spend it with their family in order to FIJI, not because 1 was exhausted beyond the point of no return, but preserve and restore the familial bonds that a long year rather, because I was not stimu- working can deteriorate. Iated in many classes (not all, and Despite obvious time constraints, due to the trimester the professors in the minority system, students should not feel obliged to attend class should know who they are). Yet, several of these same professors on any of the aforementioned holidays. We, as a body of are ready to throw a grenade at the citizens and not just young adults at an institution of higher Greek System, blaming Greeks for learning (morally and academically), are losing sight of the problems in the classroom. To some of the national and familial values that were hope- those professors: stop hurting our school. fully once instilled in us as children. Spending time with When I entered Union in 1994, family or spending time observing a holiday is more im- us News & World Report rated portant than any class could offer. . Union number 25 in its list of top PS. Yom Kippur is this coming Wednesday and spring . Liberal Arts Schools (around the 85th percentile). Last year, the term begins one day after Easter, forcing people to choose ranking was 35, and this year, as between family/religion and classes. schools around us bounced around, SAS/MPT Olnnrorbi.e:nsis The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 18 77 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Stephanie SJobotkin- Michelle Tbam EDITORS-IN-CHIEF Jennifer Pelose EXECUTIVE EDITOR Eugene Schultz FEATURES EDITOR David Kay OPINIONS EDITOR Brooke BaryUck NEWS EDITOR David Brooks Brian Terlinsky David Weiner SPORTS EDITORS Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Colleen Brown Debbie Pellish A &EEDITORS we are in a tie for 33rd (near the 80th n~r\i'PI1oh Aaron Braunstein David Meguerdichian PHOTO EDITORS Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Victoria Hargreaves . SCIENCE & TECH EDITOR Adam-Paul Smolak WORLD NEWS EDITOR Jaime Chandler Shana Dangelo COPY EDITOR Danielle Devine ADVERTISEMENT COORDINATOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Paul D' Annibale, Rick Lederer,Sioan Miller, Cory Silken, Maura Woessner. STAFF. Matt Aronowitz, Heather Clements, Jay Connelly, Jim DeWan, Heath Fradkoff, Jon Gastbalter, Sloan Miller, ShaUL1 Montan11, Hillary Olk, Rory Stern, Jon·l'apper, Ben Yaffee. Obviously, it is not student qual- ity contributing to this drop. Dean Lundquist sent a spring voice mail to remind us how great admissions is doing in improving the crop of students. It cannot be the lack of money spent on buildings. Over $30 mill ion has been spent over the last five years on the Nott, library, and Olin Center. ft cannot be alumni support for the school. Our alumni departments at Union are having a banner decade. What could have caused this drop? Four years ago, the Greek System was not under the assault it has been under since. In my freshman year, we started to see the underpinnings of the system removed by the administration, starting with the mandatory meal plan issue. Could there be a cor- relation, or even causation be- tween the assault on Greeks and our drop in ranking? To be honest, it would take a smarter man than myselfto answer that question. Yet, even those in Student Activities (with the excep- tion of Dean Schurick) realize that the Greek System compliments programming the PA 's put to- gether. There is no sensible, fis- cally possible replacement in or around Union to keep the student body content, regardless of what is written in that pathetic excuse for a policy statement released by the administration recently. We have wrestled with this question for an eternity, and our answers have been fruitless. Why is today any different? So, to the faculty, with all due respect, mind your own business. If you do not like how your class- room experience is going, ask stu- dents why things are going wrong. Communicate with students, not around them. They won't bite. If you think that the reason students are tired in your classes is the Greek System, then you might want to ban freshmen from work- ing at the newspaper, radio station, Student Activities Office, and Stu- dent Government. I had many sleepless nights, like many others, because ofthose ac- tivities. However, since you are not here at night and have not asked students about their lives, How would you know that? As for the question of respon- sibility, President Hull, I am con- cerned with your stance on this is- sue. Several times, you stated that if an 18-year-old can serve his country in the military, vote, and drive, then he or she should be able to drink. However, since the law dictates that the drinking age is 21, you must abide by it. Fine, but last time I checked, there was no le- gally binding age for a student to join a Greek House. In fact, the Constitution grants us the \free- dom of assembly.\ I take your statements to mean that if there was no drinking age, you would trust freshmen to drink responsi- bly, but do you not believe they can make a responsible decision to (Continued to page 9) .. ·; - -· r.e;t.t'et''~olicy:~:·~,.; > .', .. ·•···· -Disel~im~r'·' .. : -: • .:; :· ~: , __ ;J_ :·:_ ;· .... ·:.--; ---.-•:f:'>?>(·::; .... :-·-::;:·:>~.:)?/i).t:=.>;:.~f u ... :./;}'.;z::_;'.~:;.?;·:=_:.:.,->,:·:i·/~.-., .. ' .. I1 .b 11 I c a a f a n n d n s; tl tl h I. 0 tl rr a1 rr n tl li n r< p 0 \' g ir tl R N tl o: c~ c rr Ci al tf yl 01 ti e;

Page 8 • September 24, 1998 · (([nucor.(}iensis The Absent Holiday Where were many Union students and faculty on Mon- day. the 2 P 1 of September? Classes were scheduled as usual, but there were noticeable empty desks and even a rew vacant podiums. There are probably very few people who renlize that it is extremely sacrilegious to do nny means of labor on one of the highest holidays of the year. This past Monday, Jews all over the world celebrated Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year. Many Jews believe it is the day on which 0-d completed the creation of the world. (FYI- OP/ED Opinions approximately 38% of Union's student body and faculty rZ,£ combined are Jewish) Some of Union's communitymem- · ....... ~.<.;?;a.~-- be~ rctu~ed home to their fumilies to have traditional ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ dinners and attend services at temple. where they heard Thoughts On Greek Life the resounding shofar. For those who do not know about the holiday the shofar is a rams horn made into a musical instrument whose sound signifies the New Y car. The holiday itself is not the main point of this editoriaL however. What prompted it was in fact. this Monday's holiday. But the truth of the matter is that the college does not observe anv other holidavs either. Since we arc . . aware that Union does not recognize any other National Holiday. religious or otherwise we wnnted to get a word in edge-wise. Surely other ethnic groups, \Vho arc growing at Union have holidays they would like to observe ns well. The myriad days. including Columbus Day, Ciood Friday and Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday arc just a few. But the list goes on nnd on, and we remain slightly bitter about beginning the 1998-99 academic year on Labor Day. Although many do not think about George Washington on his birthday or Lincoln on his, country-wide, people take their day ofT to spend it with their family in order to preserve and restore the familial bonds that a long year working can deteriorate. Despite obvious time constraints, due to the trimester system. students should not feel obliged to attend class on any of the aforementioned holidays. We, as a body of citizens and not just young adults at an institution of higher learning (morally and academically), are losing sight of some of the national and familial values that were hope- fully once instilled in us as children. Spending time with family or spending time observing a holiday is more im- portant than any class could offer. PS. Yom Kippur is this coming Wednesday and spring term begins one day after Easter, forcing people to choose between family/religion and classes. SAS/MPT QI.o:ncorOi.ensis The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Stephanie Slobotkin - Michelle Tham EDITORS-IN-CHIEF Jennifer Pelose EXECUTIVE EDITOR Eugene Schultz FEATURES EDITOR David Kay OPINIONS EDITOR Brooke Barylick NEWS EDITOR David Brooks Brian Terlinsky David Weiner SPORTS EDITORS Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Colleen Brown Debbie Pellish A&EEDITORS To the Faculty, Administration, and Students: I did not graduate from Union with a fond memory of my educa- tion. So far in law school, I have enjoyed classes much more than I did overall in the last four years. Pure and simple, I had a high GPA through my sophomore year, but I still wanted to leave Union. I had to go far outside the classroom to find pleasure at a college I no\V love. It: as expected, Sophomore Rush leads to the end of the Greek. System at Union, where will oth- ers he able to find such satisfac- tion? Certainly not in Schenectady, and currently, not in the classroom. I used to fall asleep in classes be- fore, during, and after I pledged FIJI, not because I was exhausted beyond the point of no return, but rather, because I was not stimu- lated in many classes (not all, and the professors in the minority should know who they are). Yet, several of these same professors are ready to throw a grenade at the Greek System, blaming Greeks for the problems in the classroom. To those professors: stop hurting our school. When I entered Union in 1994, US News & World Report rated Union number 25 in its list of top Liberal Arts Schools (around the 85th percentile). Last year, the ranking was 35, and this year, as schools around us bounced around, we are in a tie for 33rd (near the 80th Aaron Braunstein David Meguerdichian PHOTO EDITORS Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Victoria Hargreaves SCIENCE & TECH EDITOR Adam-Paul Smolak WORLD NEWS EDITOR Jaime Chandler Shana Dangelo COPY EDITOR Danielle Devine ADVERTISEMENT COORDINATOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Paul D'Annibale, Ric::k Lederer, Sloan Miller, Cory Silken, Maura Woessner. STAFF. Matt Arono.witz, Heather Clements, Jay Connelly, Jim DeWan, Heath Fradkoff, Jon Gasthalter, Sloan Miller, Shaun Montana, Hillary Olk, Rory Stern, Jon Tapper, Ben Vaffee. Obviously, it is not student qual- ity contributing to this drop. Dean Lundquist sent a spring voice mail to remind us how great admissions is doing in improving the crop of students. It cannot be the lack of money spent on buildings. Over $30 million has been spent overthe last five years on the Nott, library, and Olin Center. It cannot be alumni support for the school. Our alumni departments at Union are having a banner decade. What could have caused this drop? Four years ago, the Greek System was not under the assault it has been under since. In my freshman year, we started to see the underpinnings of the system removed by the administration, starting with the mandatory meal plan issue. Could there be a cor- relation, or even causation be- tween the assault on Greeks and our drop in ranking? To be honest, it would take a smarter man than myself to answer that question. Yet, even those in Student Activities (with the excep- tion of Dean Schurick) realize that the Greek System compliments programming the PA 's put to- gether. There is no sensible, fis- cally possible replacement in or around Union to keep the student body content, regardless of what is written in that pathetic excuse for a policy statement released by the administration recently. We have wrestled with this question for an eternity, and our answers have been fruitless. is today any different? So, to the faculty, with all due respect, mind your own business. If you do not like how your class- room experience is going, ask stu- dents why things are going wrong. Communicate with students, not around them. They won't bite. If you think that the reason students are tired in your classes is the Greek System, then you might want to ban freshmen from work- ing at the newspaper, radio station, Stude:-~t Activities Office, and Stu- dent Government. I had many sleepless nights, like many others, because of those ac- tivities. However, since you are not here at night and have not asked students about their lives, How would you know that? As for the question of respon- sibility, President Hull, I am con- cerned with your stance on this is- sue. Several times, you stated that if an 18-year-old can serve his country in the military, vote, and drive, then he or she should be able to drink. However, since the law dictates that the drinking age is 21, you must abide by it. Fine, but last time I checked, there was no le- gally binding age for a student to join a Greek House. In fact, the Constitution grants us the \free· dom of assembly.\ I take your statements to mean that if there was no drinking age, you would trust freshmen to drink responsi- bly, but do you not believe they can make a responsible decision to (Continued to page 9) Letter Policy & Disclaimer Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP/ED page and must be received by 5 pm the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed and saved on a high density disk, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, iftbe writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflec~ the opinion of the Editorial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority ofthe Editorial Board~ and of no one member in particular. Any opinion columns or cartoons reflect the <>pinions of the writers or artists, and not necessarjly the opinions ofthe Editorial.B()ard. Advertisements appearing in Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinions ofthe Editorial Board.. Ccncordif;hSis is printed by World Media, 1104 Central Avenue, Albany, NY, 12205.

' '·ot>iED 0 • • ntons Who let Jack the Ripper into Richmond? by Lis Kidder Contributing Writer Like the majority of the fresh- man class, when I received my housing assignmentover the sum- mer, I wasdisappointedto see that I wouldn't be living in West. I was convinced that you had to live in a co-ed environment to have fun at college. I was assigned to the fourth floor ofRichmond, the only all-female dorm on campus. The day I got my housing as- signment, I pulled out my campus map, and determined the location ofthe donn. I was itnpressed with Union's intelligent security deci- sions. Having the only female dorm on the edge of campus is a step in the right direction. I have learned that there are many advantages to livinginRich- mond. It is always easy to get work done, because there is very little noise. The girls on my floor are all really nice. If you want to party, you can. go somewhere else. After a few weeks of living here, I have had the opportunity to ex- perience a variety of safe situa- tions. One of these occurred Fri- day nightaround thre.e in the morn- ing. A group ofrather frightening guys from off-campus, decided to pay a visit to the lucky girls of Ricb.mond. They were let in on the first floor when someone came in, and ended up on my floor, wandering the hail- way. Unfortunately for them, they ran into my RA. Whenshe found out they didn't go to the college, she kicked them out Uudging from the noise in the hallway, I was pretty sure she had also thrown them down the stairs). You don't want to cross my RA. When she came back from slay- ing the intruders, we asked her what had happened. She told us that everyone knows that Rich- mond is the only all women's dorm on campus .. She said that men from both on -and off campus take ad- vantage .of that .faet. I am not an extremely paranoid person; but the fact that scary guys from off-campus can walk right · into the dorm is a little unsettlin.g. I don't mind guys being in the dorm, but I really don't want to walk out of my room late at night and run into Jeffrey Dahmer. Al- though I have complete faith in my RA' s ninja fighting tactics, it's re• ally not her job to defend the en- tire dorm. It's important that the girls. in Richmond .pu.t effort into making .the dorm safe. If they suspect that someone coming into the dorm might be a guy (look for facial hair), they should ask him where he's going. Have him call up to the person he's going to see. It only takes a second, and it saves the rest of us from walking out of our room and running into a herd of scary men, Pointless Observati-ons by Bill W. Rogers Contributing Writer OK, so I couldn't help myself. I said last week and all last summer that I wouldn't EVER again write this stupid column, and I almost held myself back, I really did. But, I guess the creative monster inside of me just had to come out and so, this week I will attempt to make a mockery of all I have seen thus far at Union. First, I would like to make a guide for al! Union fresh- men to follow in :n:der to make their adjustment to th~ school a little easier. With regards to c.lothes, you may have noticed that your ward- robe is a little, well, lacking com- pared to most everyone else here on campus. The first thing you want to do is this. You' 11 want to go into your closet to take a quick inventory. If you find anything that doesn't have the label of Ralph Lauren Polo, J. Crew, or North Face, IMMEDIATELY throw it away. Anything without one of those three labels on it is completely unacceptable at Union College and will make you an im- mediate outcast. Next, look at the car you are driving. If it is not a Jeep Grand Cherokee, pretend like it is not yours and drive it back home with you this weekend. A Grand Chero- kee says, \my daddy's so rich, not only can he afford to send me here without any financial aid, but he ·can also buy me a $30,000 car along with it. Aren't I special.'' OK, now you're starting to get the idea. Lastly, you'll want to beg yourparents to buy you a personal computer. If you only have a com- puter I guess it will suffice, but it will tell everyone else that you are \new money,\ and they will think you're a dork. OK, time to tally up your scores on the acceptability scale-no par- tial credit will be awarded. You earn one point if your closet is al- - . ready filled with overpriced clothes from Polo and J. Crew, Did you get this one right? Good for you, now move on. Here's a tougher one-have your parents bought you a Jeep Grand Cherokee yet? One point-· (no points will be awarded for a Jeep Cherokee, only a Grand Cherokee). Lastly, you earn one point if you own a personal computer. No cheating! It has to be color and over $1,500. How well did you score? If you scored three points, you win! You are prime Union College material and should fit right into the mix. Two of three and you've passed, but not with flying colors. You'll need some work, but maybe with another year under your belt, you can fix yourself up. One of three and you might wish that you went to that state school instead. Maybe there's hope for you, maybe not. Zero of three? Pack your bags and go home immediately. You were not cut to be Union College mate- rial, so why even try. Anyway, it's good to be back writing the same trash as always. It's always fun to air my dirty laun- dry in the public arena. One thing that 1' m sick of though is people asking me how my summer was. What am I supposed to say? \Hor- rible-· three months without 'John Tapper's WeeklyComJnentary' al- most led me to suic;ide. I had with- drawalsymptoms for weeks. \Here are some .other rather typical an- swers to the boring q~estion, \so how was your summer'?\ \1t was great; then I remembered that 1 had to come back here. \ \It was wonderful--] spent all summer in Greece vacationing. Thank God for foil tuition students! {Oh wait, that's President Hull's response),\ \/ folt that I've really grown as a person. I got so drunk that I for- got who I was, fell face-first into the ground, and woke up in my own vomit, but I wasn't at Ellis!\ OK, ok. If you're a first time reader, you're probably wonder- ing what commentary as lame, pa- thetic and unfunny as this is doing in a fine publication such as The Concordiensis. All I have to .say is, look at. the Features section. I need no more explanation or jus- tification. Thank you. Well, winding down, I see that I have nothing left to write. So, I will turn this point of the column over to my loyal readers. l have re- ceived a collection ofletters from the final issue last year. Because of the plethora of letters, however, I can only print a select few. Here's a sample: \Are you going to write about hockey again next year? I think we had just about enough of that this year. I'm sick ofyoupokingfun at Canadians and their obsession with Molson and La batt's beer. So what if they enjoy their beer? They're Canadian, it's not like they have anything else to be proud of\ So true, my friend. I think of all the things that Americans are proud of, and our military would have to rank as one of the aspects of our culture that we value most. When you think of Canada, you · have to wonder what kind of mili- tary they even have up there. I mean, what do they do, throw snowballs?Beerbottles? The phe- nomenon perplexes me. \I think you should turn your column into primarily a letter/re- sponse foature where people write in about their problems and you tell them how they should deal with them.\ Sure, that sounds about as much fun as getting an anal probe. Please, do I look like Ann Landers? I guess that wraps things up for this week. Lf you would like to write for the Opinions section, we would greatly appreciate more substantial articles than those from Frank Rossi H. Until next time, do not send let- ters to box 1058. Thank You. Cli.onc.orme:tJ13i~/ •. -September 24, 1998 • Page 9 Thoughts On Greek Life (Continued from page 8) join a Greek House? For a man who prides himself in his consis- tency, this is an inconsistent move. The idea that the students come and go and faculty are there for much longer has no hewing. The Greek System at Union preexists all of us. Professors are so fond of tradition, and I guess that tradi- tion would almost remain in this case. Union is called, \The Mother of Fraternities.\ It would take just a slight edit to maintain that statement in light of changes: Union is \The Mother (F** *er) of Fraternities.\ Do you really want that to be attached to your legacy, President Hull? My friends, do not roll over and play dead like some of your lead- ers may have suggested through their actions. You have little to lose. One can assume under the current course, Union's Greek System will be devastated by 2005, possibly 2002. If President Hull and the faculty have given a five-year ultimatum to you, why should you not impose a similar five-year ultimatum? If they are so sure about their idea, so certain that it will be successful, then I propose the following: President Hull should submit his resignation if, within five years, Union does not make its way back into the \Top 25 Liberal Arts Schools\ ac- cording to US News, Also, the faculty should be willing to put their collective tenures up for re- view, regardless of current setups, in five years. What, you don't like the prospect ofstudents reviewing all of you? Now you know how the students feel as you place un- grounded restrictions on them. You did not like it when students gathered together last year and poked their noses into your busi- ness concerning .the \well-work- ing\ lunch hour idea. Don't be hypocrites. Remember, students and parents pay tuition (which is partially where your salaries come from) for you to teach them, not monitor them. It is time to put up or shut up for BOTH sides. To the students, if you need help or ideas, I am more than happy to put you in contact with alumni or offer my own resources to help you. Call me at ( 617) 441- 4051, day or night. It is time to act before the college that we love faces a loss that would erase much ofthe progress it has seen over the last decade. Always your friend, Frank Rossi, II Class of '98 A Message From Safe Space The RapeofMr. S.mith The law discriminates against •·ape victims in a ma~ner that would not be tolerated by victims ofany other eriine. In tbe following example. a holdup victim is asked questillns similar in form to those usually asked a victim of rape: Officer: \Mr.Smith you were held up at gun point on the corner of 16th . and Locust?\ Mr.Smith: \Yes.\ Officer: \l)id y()u strQggle with the robber?'' Mr.Smitb: \No.\ Officer: \Why not?\ Mr.Smith: \He was arme(i.\ Officer: \Then you made a conscious dec~ion- to comply with his demands rather than to resist?\ Mr. Smith: \Yes.\ Officer: ~'Did you scream? Cry out?'' Mr.Smith: \No I was afraid.\ . Officer: \I sec. Have you ever been held lip before?\ · Mr.smith: \No.'i Officer: \Have you ever given money away?\ · · Mr.Smith: \Yes of course ••• ~' , , Officer: \And you did so willingly?'~ . .Mr.Smith:. \What are you getting llt?\ . . . Offieer: \Well lets put itlike this, Mr.$mith. You'ye given money ;.way in tbe .past.,.in fact, you )tave 'luite a reputation Jor phil~n~hrotJY. How we be sure that you weren't contriving to have money taken from you ·· by force?\ · · · Mr.Smith:?. ~'Listen,•ifl wanted .... ~ · . lOfticer: .. ~~Never min_d~ :\\{bat tim,e did this holdup take place, Mr.Smith . . . . M:r:sjnit!l:. ,\Ab~mHl P.M.\ ·... . , , ;Offic,er: '~Vou w~r~ o~(on ~~e. stre~( at J(P.lV(.? Doh1g what?'~ · · · .· · Mr.Shdtti: '\Justwalki~g.'; . · Officer: \Just walkiiig? ·'You know tlla{it;~{dallgerous being out on the .·. street:thatJateat night Weren't you aware ihatyoti ~ould have been · • · · · • ' • held up?\ .. . . . . . Mr.$~ith• W- h,~d.n't th9~ght,.bput t~aL\ · . Officer: ~'W~at \'~r~ yi:l~ i:\~:u~(ng·~t tit~ time .~r.~mith ?\ . Mr·S~i(~~ ~~~t·~ ~~~· A suit.' Xes~ a suit.'' · · · .· Qfficet( '~Au e~pensiv~ ~nit!\ · · · · .·· ·· ·· Mt~Slfiitlif \Welt;.)'es.\ Officeh '' 4 In -other words~ Mr.SMith~ you were walking aronnd the streets late afliight in a suit tllatpradieally advertised tbe f~ct tbatyou might a good targetfor some.e~S:ymo.ney, isn't thaUo? I mean if we didn~t ~IJ9W better;)\:lr;Smitb~. -w~ lll,ig~.f ~ven think that you were asking for •.. · ....... , _ .. · .. · .. •.·.· .. to)•appen~ mlgbtn't we?\ ;· ,Mr.$~ifh( 4~t(i~l,\.~- tafi;:t ~~ t!llk j:tbout the past history of the guy who ····';. ·'\· '',' ·.··•. ·'·'>':did.tbistoilie?\ ·. ··.· Offieel•~ ~~~~ill • · · ·· · · · .. ·· 1 dou~t tbink you want to violate his .. ltll2hltt now w,ould rou?i'' . •, . .

OP/ED Opinions Who let Jack the Ripper into Richmond? IJy Lis Kidder Collttibuting Writer Like the majority of the fresh- man class, when I received my housing assignment over the sum- mer, I was<lisappointed to see that I wouldn't be living in West. I was convinced that you had to live in a co-ed environment to have fun at college. I was assigned to the fourth floor of Richmond, the only all-fema:le dorm on campus. The day I got my housing as- signment, I palled out my campus map, and cletennined the location of the donn. I was impressed with Union's intelligent security deci- sions. Having the only female dorm on the edge of campus is a step in the right direction. I have learned ihat there are many adva11tages to living in Rkh- mond. It is always easy to get work done, because there is very little noise. The girls on my floor are all really nice. If :you want to party, you can go somewhere else. After a few weeks ofliving here, I have had the opportunity to ex- perience a variety of safe situa- tions. One of these occurred Fri- day night around three in the morn- ing. A group ofrather frightening guys from off-campus~ decided to pay a visit to the lucky girls of Richmond. They were let in on the first floor when someoNe came in, and ended up on my floor, wandering the hall- way. Unfortunately for them, they ran into my RA. When she found out they didn't go to the college, she kicked them out (judging from the noise in the hallvvay, I was pretty sure she had also thrown them down the stairs). You don't want to cross my RA. When she came back from slay- ing the intruders, we asked her what had happened. She told us that everyone knows that Rich- mond is the only all worn en's dorm 011 cam pus. She said that men from both on and off campus take ad- vantage of that fact. I am not an extremely paranoid person; but the fact that scary guys from off-campus can walk right into the dorm is a little unsettling. · I don't mind guys being in the donn, but I really don't want to walk out of my room late at night and run into Jeffrey Dahmer. Al- though I have complete faith in my RA 's ninja fighting tactics, it's re- ally not her job to defend the en- tire dorm. It's important that the girls in Richmond put effort into making the dorm safe. If they suspect that someone coming into the dorm might be a guy (look for facial hair), they should ask him where he's going. Have him call up to the person he's going to see. It only takes a second, and it saves the rest of us from walking out of our room and ntnning into a herd of scary men. Pointless Observations by Bill W. Rogers Cmrtributing Writer OK, so I .couldn't help myself. I said last week and all last summer that I wouldn't EVER again write this stupid column, and I almost held myselfback, I really did. But, I guess the creative monster inside of me just !lad to come out and so, this week I will attempt to make a mockery of all I have seen thus far at Union. First, I would like to make a guide for all Union fresh- men to follow in order to make their adjust1nent to th\: school a little easier. With regards to clothes, you may have 11oticed that your ward- robe is a little, well, lacking com- pared to mcst everyone else here on campus. The first thing you wantto do is this. You'll want to go into your closet to take a quick inventory. If you find anything that does11 't have the label of Ralph Lauren Polo, J. Crew, or North Face, IMMEDIATELY throw it away. Anything without one of those three labels on it is completely unacceptable at Union College andvvill make you an im- mediate outcast. Next, look at the car :you are driving. If it is not a Jeep Grand Cherokee, pretend like it is not yours and clrive it back home with you this weekend. A Grand Chero- kee says, \'mydaddy's so rich, not only can he afford to send me here without any financial aid, but he can also buy me a $30,000 car along with it. Aren't I special.\ OK, now you're starting to get the ide a. Lastly, you' II want to beg your parents to buy :you a personal computer.! fyou only have a com- puter I guess it wi U suffice, but it will tell everyone else that you are \new money,\ and they will think you're a d()rk. OK, time totally up your scores on the acceptability scale-no par- tial credit ...viii be awarded. You earn one point if your closet is al- ready filled with overpriced clothes from Polo and J. Crevv. Did you get this one right? Good for you, now move on. Here's a tougher one-have your parents bought you a Jeep Grand Cherokee :yet? One point-(no points will be awarded for a Jeep Cherokee, only a Grand Cherokee). Lastly, you earn one point if you own a personal computer. No cheating! It has to be color and over $1,500. How well did you score? If you scored three points, you win! You are prime Union College material and should fit right into the mix. Two of three and :you~ve passed, but not with flying colors. You' II need some work, but maybe with another year under your belt, you can fix yourself up. One of three and you might wish that you went to that state sch<Jol instead. Maybe there's hope for you, maybe not. Zero of three? Pack your bags and go home immediately. You were not cut to be Union Co liege mate- rial, so why even try. Anyway, it's good to be back writing the same trash as always. It's always fun to air my dirty laun- dry in the public arena_ One thing that I'm sick of though is people asking me how my summer was. What am I supposed to say? \Hor- rible-three months without 'John Tapper's Weekly Commentary' al- most led me to suicide. 1 had with- drawal symptomsfor weeks. ''Here are some .other rather typical an- swers to the boring q~estion, \so how was your summer?\ \It was great, then I remembered that I had to conu back here. \ \It was wonderful--/ .spent all summer in Greece vacationing. Thank God for full tuition students! (Oh wait, that '.s President Hull's response). \ \I felt that 1 've realTy grown as a person. I got so drunk that !for- got who I was, fell face-first into the ground, and woke up in my own vomit, but I wasn't at Ellis!\ OK, ok. If you're a first time reader, you're probably wonder- ing what commentary as lame, pa- thetic and unfunny as this is doing in a fine publication such as The Concordiensis. All I have to say is, look at the Features section. I need no more explanation or jus- tification. Thank you. Well, winding down, I see that I have nothing left to write. So, I will tum this point of the column over to my loyal readers. I have re- ceived a collection of letters from the final issue last year. Because of the plethora of letters, however, I can only print a select few. Here's a sample: \Are you going to write about hockey again next year? I think we had just about enough of that this year. I'm sick of you poking fun at Canadians and their obsession with Molson and Labatt 's beer. So what if they enjoy their beer? They're Canadian, it's not like they have anything else to be proud of\ So true, my friend. I think of all the things that Americans are proud of, and our military would have to rank as one of the aspects of our culture that we value most. When you think of Canada, you have to wonder what kind ofmili- tary they even have up there. I mean, what do they do, throw snowballs? Beer bottles? The phe- nomenon perplexes me. \1 think you should turn your column into primarily a letter/re- sponse feature where people write in about their problems and you tell them how they should deal with them. \ Sure, that sounds about as much fun as getting an anal probe. Please, do I look like Ann Landers? I guess that wraps things up for this week. If you would like to write for the Opinions section, we would greatly appreciate more substantial articles than those from Frank Rossi II. Until next time, do not send let- ters to box 1058. Thank You. Olnn.cnr.Oittt!.'lis • September 24, 1998 • Page 9 Thoughts On Greek Life (Continued from page 8) join a Greek House? For a man who prides himself in his consis- tency, this is an inconsistent move. The idea that the stwdents come and go and faculty are there for much longer has no bearing. The Greek System at Union preexists all of us. Professors are so fond of tradition, and I guess that tradi- tion would almost remain in this case. Union is called, \The Mother of Fraternities.\ It would take just a slight edit to maintain that statement in light of changes: Union is \The Mother (F***er) of Fraternities.\ Do you really want that to be attached to your legacy, President Hull? My friends, do not roll over and play dead like some of your lead- ers may have suggested through their actions. You have little to lose. One can assume under the current course, Union's Greek System will be devastated by 2005, possibly 2002. If President Hull and the faculty have given a five-year ultimatum to you, why should you not impose a similar five-year ultimatum? If they are so sure about their idea, so certain that it will be successful, then I propose the following: President Hull should submit his resignation if, within five years, Union d<Jes not make its way back into the \Top 25 Liberal Arts Schools\ ac- cording to US News. Also, the faculty should be willing to put their collective tenures up for re- view, regardless of current setups, in five years. What, you don't like the prospect of students reviewing all of you? Now you know how the students feel as you place un- grounded restrictions on them. You did not like it when students gathered together last year and poked their noses into your busi- ness concerning the \well-work- ing\ lunch hour idea. Don't be hypocrites. Remember, students and parents pay tuition (which is partially where your salaries cGme from) for you to teach them, not monitor them. It is time to put up or shut up for BOTH sides. To the students, if you need help or ideas, I am more than happy to put you in contact with alumni or offer my own resources to help you. Call me at ( 617) 441- 4051, day or night. It is time to act before the college that we love faces a loss that would erase much of the progress it has seen over the last decade. Always your friend, Frank Rossi, II Class of'98 A Message From Safe Space The Rape of Mr. Smith The law discriminates against rape victims in a manner that would not be tolerated by victims ofany other crime. In the following ex:ample, a holdup victim is asked questions similar in form to those usually asked a victim of rape: Officer: \Mr.Smith yQu were held up at gun point on the corner of 16th and Locust?\ Mr.Smith: \Yes.\ Officer: \Did you struggle with the robber?\ Mr.Smith: \No.\ Officer: \Why not?\ Mr.Smith: \He was armed.\ Officer: \Then you made a conscious decision to comply with his demands rather than to resist?\ Mr. Smith: \Yes.\ Officer: \Did you scream? Cry out?\ Mr.Smith: \No I was afraid.\ Officer: \I see. nave you ever been held up before~\ Mr.Smith: \No.\ Officer: \Have you ever given money away?\ Mr.Smith: \Yes of course ... \ Officer: \And you did so willingly?\ Mr.Smith: \What are you getting at?\ Officer: \Well lets put it like this, Mr.Smith. You've given ntoney away in the past .. .in fact, you have quite a reputation for philanthl·opy. How can we be sure that you weren't co11triving to have money taken from you by force?\ Mr.Smith:? '~Listen, if I wanted ... \ Officer: \Never mind. What time did this holdup take place, Mr.Smith ?\ Mr.Smith: \About 11 P.M.\ .Officer: \You were out on the street at 11 P.M.? Doingvvhut?\ Mr.Smitb: \Just walking.\ Officer: \Just walking? You know that it's dangerous being out on the streetthatlate at night. Weren't you aware that you could have been held up?\ Mr.Smith: \I hadn't thought about that.\ Officer: \What were you wearing at the time ~lr.Smith ?\ Mr.Smith: \Let's see. A suit. Yes, a suit.\ Officer: \An expensive suitl\ Mr.Smitb: \Well ... yes.\ Officer: \In other words, Mr.Smith, you were walking around the streets late at night in a suit that practically advertised the fact that you might be a good target for some easy money, isn't that so? I mean ihve didn't know better, Mr.Smith, we might even think that you were asking for this to happen, mightn't we?\ Mr.Smith: \Look can't we hilk about the past history of tile guy who did this to me?\ Officer: \I'm afraid not, Mr.Smith. I don't think you want to violate his dghts now would you?\ Talten from the American Bar Associati~11 Journal ,. : . '~ . . . ' . . . . : . . : . .· . . . ' . . . . ~ . . .. . . . . . . . .. . : . . .. ·. . -.- . ' ~,~E-Mail Us Your Thouglits or. Responses to This Wee'k's .Opinions· to concordy@·vu .. uninn.ed~J · \') ~: . . . . . . 'J-' . ' ' '- l ' • ' ·, ' • ' - ~· ' ' • ' ' • • • ' • ' ' •

When I was a little girl, I always made my father cut the crusts off my sandwiches. I liked the smooth lines of white bread without the tan-colored edges. So, my wishes were usually granted and I was happily content with my crust-free lunches. My dad would save all the crusts and keep them in a ziploc bag. At the end of the week, we'd take the bag to a nearby lake and feed the crum- bly pieces ofbread to the geese and ducks that lived there. I guess little rituals like that filled my childhood. Filled my el- ementary school days with bliss- ful happiness and filled me with warm memories that I can now carry. I remember sitting around my kitchen table on Friday nights and drinking ice cream floats with a bendable straw and laughing hys• terically for no reason whatsoever. I remember playing Home-Run Derby until my arms felt like they were about to fall off. I remember going to the Bronx Zoo with my family and chasing my brother through the Reptile House. The fact is, when f was kid, I was alive. I was breathing, run- ning, chasing, grasping for every moment with everything I had in- side ofme. I miss that. I miss that a lot. My days now are usually a half- awake effort at staying on top of the piling responsibilities that never seem to end. I yearn for pil- ing my hair up in pigtails and wait- ing for snack time. I miss nap time more than any- thing, though. by Michelle Tbam Editor'-in-Chief I can't remember the last time I slept for more th.an 7 hours in a night. The conceptof\sleeping in'' has not crossed my mind in over a year. And now,. since it is my last year here., I will often choose a social excursion. over some much- needed sleep. I guess I just don't want to feel like I am missing any- thing. I have missed enough al- ready. So, I must say that I long for those childhood nights, when bed- \I wish som(!one would. ring my doorbell and ask me if I would like · to go ride hikes until the sun set, rather than ask me if I would like to go bar-hopping until the sunrise. \ time was a threat. ... when all I wanted was to bum off all of my energy. When I would ecstatically run myself to the point of sheer, hyper exhaustion~ I fell into my bed, tired but content. I now fall asleep with anxious tension crawl- ing over my brain. Too tired to· even sleep, too drained to possi- bly stay awake. A paradox. Here I am now, a few days from my2CJh birthday, and all I want is the simplicity of my youth. I sup- pose a lot of people say they Jove being at this age <>f\young adult- hood,\ that they love the rush and excitement of partying and stay- ing up until all hours of the night with music blasting and alcohol flowing. I suppose I must be tao young for th~s almost 20-year old body. AU I want is to play Man Hunt · on my front lawn and eat mint chocolate chip ice cream piled • high on a sugar cone. I wish some- • one would ring my doorbell and · ask me if I would like to go ride . bikes until the sun set, rather than ask me if I would like to go bar- hopping until the sunrise. I don't want to be on the verge of adulthood and independence. I always thought I wanted to grow up, leave home and find some trendy apartment in New York City. But, if I think about it: why on earth would I wantto do that? I had everything I ever needed as a · little kid. I sat patiently at the din- ner table and waited for my food. I could wear overalls, run outside in the rain and make an absolute · muddy mess of myself and not worry about the laundry at aU. I could ask my dad to cut the crusts · off of my sandwiches and not think · twice. Do you think the employees at Dl!,tch Hollow would mind cutting the crusts off of my bread? I think that would be kind of weird. And I guess I am sad to say it, but I've gotten used to the crusts. I don't really mind them anymore. Maybe that's how you know when you're really old. When crust doesn't bother you anymore. But I think I'll treat myselfto- morrow to a crust-free PB&J sand- wich, and feel young again for a day. The Top 25 Ways to Spot a Freshntan by Sarah & Kate Contributing Writers When trying to decide upon a topic for this week's article, we had some trouble. Ev~ntually, we decided to write about how easy it is to spot a freshman. We figured it would amuse the upperclassmen while educating our fellow fresh- men. Now, you might be wonder- ing how we could tell, even though we are in fact freshman. The fact is, we realize all the stupid things we do, we just choose not to change the way we do things. We know that people recognize us in · a second, for the following reasons · and more. Plus, everyone telJs us how obvious we are. We walk into a frat and everyone hanging out outside yells, \Hi freshmen!\ Now don't think we don't know why they know. Here is our fresh- man proof. They are the ones who: 25. look confused when you try to explain things to them. 24. have to use a map to fmd their way around campus. 23. still hang out with friends from high school. 22. brag about making it on the security report. 21. still get excited to get phone calls. 20. giggle about sneaking alco- hol. 19. wear their rape whistles on their key chains. 18. get a buzz from being tired. 17. start all their conversations with \where are you from?\ 16. start all their stories with !'in high school. .. \ 15. check their mail 69 million times a day. 14. are the only ones eating in upperclass dining oil Friday nights. 13. are wearing Union gear from head to toe. 12. love writi11g on people's memo boards 11. think they are rebels for set- ting off the ftre alatm with birth- day candles. 1 0. still call Phi Delt, \Phi Delta Theta.\ 9. have trouble opening the door even when they're sober. 8. are standing in all the door- ways at frat parties . 7. don'tknow how to answer the question \Are You A Freshman?\ 6. go to the crappy frat parties because they don 1 t know that they're crappy yet. 5. aren't pushing and shoving for beer. 4. stop and have a group con- ference before going into any frat. 3. travel in packs of twenty. 2. wear their keys and id. back- wardsaround their necks on those Union whistle straps. and the #I way to spot a fresh- man is ... They are the only ones be- ing sent to the hospital. As you can see, we definitely know our mistakes. As for walk- ing in packs, we really can't help it. Wherever one person goes, we all end up going. It's a fact of life. So freshmen, if you really want to fool the upper class men, try push- ing for beer, get out of the stinkin' doon\rays, and walk by your own stupid self. Try forgetting high school, learn the damn abbreviations for the frats, get rid of the friggin' whistle straps, and stay off the Ellis bus. If that isn't enough information to help you blend in among the up- perclassmen, you. deserve the con- stant ridiculing anyway. Jon Tapper's Weekly Comm~ntary by Jon Tapper Staff Writet Another week, another quality article. Thanks to aU of my loyal readers for your support for last . weeks column. Now on to new business and, maybe some old business that I am not quite done giving my opinion on. A subject that I did not address last week that probably needs to be addressed js the New Union College mascot- the Durchman/ Woman/child/thing or whatever the hell its politically correct name is. I find it very offensive. Everytime I look at it I am re~ minded of Nazi Germany during . World War H. There is nothing 1 ike having someone from the \perfect race,\ an Aryan Nation member looking back at you as your school mascot. Who here thinks that the Dutchman exempli- fies Union school spirit? Not me, that's for sure. I wantto know who approved this offensive design? I personally would have slept bet- ter at night ifUnion' s mascot were .a giant letter \U\ walking around campus. I mean, how offensive could a \U\ be? On to more upbeat and less con- . troversial things. Jon needs a ma- jor. And I need some ideas. I feel like my studies will go better· if I had a purpose and a clear-cut goal to achieve at the end of a course. So I need some help. I need those ofyou who know me (and those of you who don't know me) to give me some suggestions on what you could see me doing for the rest of my life. I should make it a contest or something to that affect in which the person who sets me up · with a major wins a prize. Maybe a nice dinner at a fme res- taurant with yours truly or some- thing along those lines (this offer is for male contestants only); Or maybe I will mention the name of the winner in an edition of this column giving that person instant fame and .reco.gnition amongst their peers. I know with incentives like that, my mailbox is going to be jammed with suggestions. I was thinlcing today about how great a person 'I really am. I .am my own hero. If I could be any- one else for a day, I would be me, because being me is the greatest. I don't know why I just wrote that. I will try to refrain from boosting my ego in future editions of this column. Moving on, sad to hear that the Union hockey coach left. for \greener pastures.\ I can't imag• ine why he would go? After the all the success he had last year, I am surprised that he didn't want to stay here forever. But on a seri- ous note, it's my opinion that he .left on the verge of what may pos .. sibly he a breakthrough year for this club. There is nowhere to go but up for this team. I think that they lost a lot of their games last year based on inexperience. So it's too bad that the coach took off on them. But even though I make fun of the team a lot. I wish them the best of luck this year with th.ere new coach. Well, that about does it for me. It was my birthday this past Sun- day, so feel free to send gifts, checks, and cash to Box #2037. Also welcomed are suggestions for my major and any comments, ideas, or suggestions in general I also enjoy receiving emails so me a line at some point. Matty G's World; by Matt Gendron Contributing Writer In my column last week I seem to have made some people upset. Therefore, i apologize to the so- . cial and integrated members of the Webster community. On another note, I would like to complain to the Concordiensis staff about the headline on the back oflastweek's issue. It read Dutch- men Crucify Saints. Is that the kind of image that we want to send out about this institution of higher learning? We're going to have a semester school in a few years to g<> along With sophomore rush, but will we go back to the old days and reject all Irishmen and Catholics too? Back in the day, Union College was not just a college form en only, but Irishmen need 11ot have ap- plied. Catholics were also strictly forbidden. The school was a Union of all religions, as long as you were Protestant. The church across Union Street was built as an Irish church, and it was supposedly built to show the Irish were better than Union as its steeple is one foot taller than the Nott. Interesting. During this time~ the school ad- mitted Jews, but only to fill a quota that they had. Once the Jews got here; all the fraternities were given a iist of the Jews, simply because · the school didn't want any ofthe frats to make a mistake and take a Jew in. Then the school became more liberal and accepted women, ancfc · people of all colors. , ' Back to the crucifYing, [ spoke' to about 20 people and showed · them the headline. Inall, religious · background was a determining factor in how offended, if at all, one was offended. Christians were offended while people of Jewish · decent did not even notice it. Think we need a religious crosstalk? Oh yeah. Especially after that crazy guy in student ac- tivities keeps talking about putting people into fires ... Ellis Count: Class of2001 a 13 (fall term) Classof2002 a4 (through 9/20) They could go all the way ... . !

Advertisements ~anr.orbhnsis • September 24, 19()8 • Page 11 II:! Career Festival.! Thurs., Sepl-.., 24~h, 1.2-4 prn Vnion F£eld House: Rain or Shine Ie's .zvoe Jus~ For Senzors.f • Internsh.ips • • Sununer Jobs • • Par't-tbne .:Jobs • :eartic;:;ipatJng EJ[Qplo;yers Alba:ny Semester late~~:nship Program Andersen Consulting Approach., Inc. Cmnbridge Tech.m,C>lOgy Partners . DIS R~ Ltd.~ P~ Cons.n'iting OrQ.up Enterprise R.ent.-A~ . - Equis . . , , . ~~ Direc;::t TecbnQlogy ~ Dynauaies- Ele¢tric Boat Divis~on l()enerat EleCtric - eoq,orate Benefits ~livery '~wicb Tech.,.ology ~en :Hewitt As~i;;s.tes Hipotronics~ lnc. Hoechst. M:M;ion Roussel I-BIM\ . ..J'wne$. Martin&. C..o. .John Hancock M:utual' Life lnsuran~ Kaplan Educalional Centers. Tnc. Key Bank LOoClo:::heed 1\lfani:Il - :K.A,PL Logic Tecb:nology rvi,exnQrial Sloa.u-Ke~-ering Can¢r Center Morgan S~ley Dean 'Witter Nort.b\'llfes~ Mutual Life - La1hatt1 NY L•f'e .Insurance Co. NYS AsseiD.bly Ititern Com.ndttee NYS Depart(i'leX\t: o£ T.l'allsportation Prioewaterbouse C!oopers - - QuadiG.'aphics Raytb,eon Systems Co.rnpany S$1.<Js :Broth~ & Co ... Ltd. Thf!.! P.t\\ineeton· Review Thoxnson Financial Services Tnts:tco Ban~ Tuna;er Const.rtJction Coi'\J)<»'at:ion U.S- Air Force Of:ficer Accessions U.S. Army Recruiting Station U •. S. Marines Cp.-ps. OCficer Selection U.S. Navy Officer Pro~~ns Office Westinghouse (MAO) W'illiair!l M. l'Vlcrccr Xerox Corp<>ra~on Far:tl c;;i:patjng Schools Albany Law School Boston College La'W' School Boston University School of Law- Bn:liOklyn Lavv School ColUDiboia University Teac::bers College Ma:rist College <J.:acluate Programs Nevv :England.Sc:::hool oc La'!IV New Yodc. Chiropractic Collt}ge New Yori;: College o:f Podiatric Medicine Ne\\\ Yolk L:a\iN' School Necw York Univ~i~y Scbool of~edicine Northeastern Unive:rsit:y Grad~ School of Bus. A<hnin. Ohio Nortbern University College of La'IIV' Pace University Gr.aduat:e SChool Pace Universit.y School of La-w Renssel.ael' at :n:artrord RPI School o£ Mgt_ & Tecbnol.ogy RPI SchOOl of Lang •• Lit. & Couunpnical.ions Roger VVillia.Ins University School. o£ La'IN ~048 UniverSity School of Medicine Sage Graduace Scbools St. . .Eobn Fisher Coilege Si,J;nJU,ons College (Lib- Science. Social 'W\o:r::lc:) SuC.t\e>lk University Lavv School SUNY Albany School of Busb.tess St.JNY Albany School of Public Affairs S'lJNY at Albany School of' Soc@ \Welfare S yracu$e University School of' ArcbitecnJre The College c:>:f' Saint. Rose ·reJ.npl:e University School of\ Law Touro L,a\\' School Union College Educational Studies Union College Engineering & Computer Science Union Col~ge GJ\\dduat..e: l\.1:anagenl.ent Institute University at Buf.falo School of\ Jtd.anagement. University of Conn~cut. School of' La:w- Universi1:y of Dayton School of Law Washington & Lee Univ. School of La.'W' Western Ne\lllf England College Schoel o€ La-w Wide-ner Universit,y School of Law Be Prepared: • Dress neatly~ in business auire ifpos.sible_ • Bring severaL copies ofyour resume. The CDC can help youpr~par.e one; call3B8-6I76. . • A handou~ en'lirled~ \''HoJ.V -eo Gel! rhe Mose Oue ofthe CareerFes~ivaC' is avaUabZe a1: ~he CDC- Everyone's going to Union's Twentieth '98 TODAY, Thurs., Sept. 24th 12 noon- 4 pm Union College Field House For All Students Something for everyone! New ·recruiters have added! Come to the Field House and explore!

Page.12• September 24, 1998 • <!rlllltnrmensi5 Science & Technology Science & Technology 2K~ The :M:illennium Bug by Jeffrey Ausfeld Staff Writer First some basic information about the bug: the millennium bug is not a computer virus that will erase your computer at the stroke of midnight on the year 2000, so getting some anti-virus program will not stop the glitch from oc- curring. The problem essentially began with the software designers who wrote software in the late 70's and early 80's. They needed to fit a large amount of information in a small space to minimize the space required to save the program. Such cut backs included only two counting digits in the date, so the \19\ in the year \199 8\ re- mains constant while the year \98\ is free to count up with each pass- ing year. It was a good idea at the time because it did save disk space and they also thought that the pro- grams would be upgraded before the year 2000. The designers were right about the upgrading part but some of the newer programs also imp1emented the old date code s0 that they could communicate with the older ver- sions of software. So the programs with the old date code will count up t0 \1999\ and t~en in the year 2000 the program will reset to \1900\ because only the last two digits can count. Well, that is one thing, but how does this affect me and my com- puting needs? We will start with personal operating syste.ms. Microsoft reports Windows 95 (all versions) is compliant with minor issues. The comment (all versions) means that if you are using Win- dows 95 then read this paragraph. These issues include updating the winfile.exe to [Version 4.00.951 dated 3/11/97 9:51a 155,456]. If you have a file that is older than this, you will have some problems with the year2000. The solution to this minor' computing problem is to clown- load the updated winfile.exe at ftp:// ftp.microsoft .com/ softlib/slfiles/ WIN95Y2K.EXE. In- structions on installa- tion will be provided. For those who k:now about the millennium bug, this update also includes a new command.com to fix the date jn MS-DOS. The only other problem with Windows 95 is the find command; it does not support find-by-date for years greater than I 9<J9. There is currently no solution yet, but this will not do any dam- age to your computer when 2000 rolls around. The next operating, system is Windows NT 4.0. Microsoft again reports that it is compliant with minor issues, but there are many more problems with NTthan there were with Windows 95. The prob- lems include a User Menu that does not recognize February 2000 as a leap year, Fmd Files that display a garbled date ifthe year is 2000 or greater, custom,dates in office display date incorrectly after 2000, the find command does not support the year 2000, and there are other mi- nor problems with Internet Ex- plorer 3.02 or earlier. There is some good news though; all these problems can be fixed by install- ing Service Pack 3 _and Internet Explorer 4.0. Internet Explorer can be found anywhere and Ser- vice Pack 3 can be downloaded from the Microsoft site at http:ff support. microsoft .comfsupport/ netserver/Content!ServicePacks/ Whcre.asp. Instructions on instal- -lation will be provided. Windows 98 users do not need to worry about the millennium bug in their operating system be- cause Windows 98 was released after 1997 and is 100% year 2000 compliant. In fact, all products from Microsoft are 2000 compli- ant if they were released after 1997. For those who are using a Macintosh and related software, Macintosh happily reports that any version of Mac OS is 2000 com- pliant as well as any of the related software from apple. Macintosh was having some fun when they said that .the 64 bit time codes can handle the year from . 30,000 BC to 29,940 AD. So in any case, Macintosh and related products will not have a. prob- lem withthedate for some time to come with the exception of Microsoft Office for Macintosh ver- sion 4.2 or earlier. This includes older versions of Excel and Word as well. Please refer to the Macintosh homepage for more details. Last]y, I will briefly discuss some ofthe basic applications for IBM based systems. The first pro- gram up is Office 95. Microsoft reports that this is compliant with minor issues. There are two problems. The first is the clock is system dependent, which is an extension problem with the operating system. For instance if the operating sys- tem has minor issues with the clock then so does any program that shares this resource, office 95and 7 ;O included. The other problem is 2 digit shortcut shared resource .DLL file. Installing Windows with OS2, or Internet Explorer3.0 or later can fix this. Office 97 is year 2000 compliant. The only other program that I will discuss is Quicken.. Quicken for Dos and Windows Versions 1· 5 can handle the date through 2027 · except for the online banking op- tions in version 5. For versions 6, 9 8, 99 the upper 2027 year limit is still in effect but 30 yc;:ar bonds are now starting to cross that barrier so Quicken reports that they are wo:. .... ing on thatproblembut there is no version of quicken released that does not have the 2027 limit. The millennium bug is ap- proaching soon so if any of the programs that were mentioned are being used, it is suggested that you install the update for the product before it is too late. In any case, your hard drive will not be erased. There will just be many problems With the operating system or in running the application and such things along those lines. To recap, the programs that have the bug that were included in this article are: Windows 95 (aU versions), Win- dows NT 4:0 (without service pack 3), older versions of Excel and Word for Macintosh, and Office 95 or Office 7.0. For specific questions about cer- tain programs or questions and comments in eneral about this ar- ticle, e-mail me at: ausfeldj@vu.union.edu. RITE AID Photo Processing Go to RITE AID for All of Your Photo Processing Needs RITE AID is located on VanVranken Avenue (518) 381-4843

Page 12• September 24, 1998 • <!tll1trnrbieusis Science & Technology Science & Technology 2K~ The :M_illennium Bug by Jeffrey Ausfeld Staff Writer First some basic in ]ormation about the bug: the millennium bug is not a computer virus that will erase your computer at the stroke of midnight on the year 2000, so getting some anti-virus program will not st0p the glitch from oc- CI:Irring. The problem essentially began with the software designers who wrote software in the late 70's and early 80's. They needed to fit a large amount of information in a small space to minimize the space required to save the program. Such cut backs inc! uded only two counting digits in the date, so the \19\ in the year '\1998\ re- mains constant while the year \98\ is free to count up with each pass- ing year. It was a good idea at the time because it did save disk space and they also thought that the pro- grams would be upgraded before the year 2000. The designers were right about the upgrading part but some of the newer programs also implemented the old date code so that they could communicate with the o ldcr ver- sions of software. So the rrograms with the old date code will count up to \I Q99\ and then in the year :!000 the program '\i 11 reset to \1900\ because only the last two digits can count. Well, that is one thing, but how does this affect me and my com- puting needs? We wi II start with personal operating systems. Microsoft reports Windows 95 (all versions) is compliant with minor issues. The comment (all versions) means that if you are using Win- dows 95 then read this paragraph. These issues include updating the winfile.exe to [Version 4.00.951 dated 3/11/97 9:5la 155,456]. If you have a file that is older than this, you will have some problems with the year 2000. The sol uti on to this minor computing problem is to down- load the updated win file.exe at ftp:// ftp. rn icrosoft .com/ softlib/slfiles/ WIN95Y2K.EXE. In- structions on installa- tion will be provided. For those who know about the millennium bug, this update also inc! udes a new command.com to fix the date in MS-DOS. The only other problem with Windows 95 is the find command; it does not support find-by-date for years greater than 1999. Then: is currently no solution yet. but this will not do any dam- age to your computer when 2000 rolls arour1d. Tbe next operating system is Windows NT 4.0. Microsoft again reports that it is compliant with minor issues, but there are many more problems with NT than there were with Windows 95. The prob- !ems include a User Menu that does not recognize February 2000 as a leap year, Find Files that display a garbled date if the year is 2000 or greater, custom dates in office display date incorrectly after 2000, the find command does not support the year 2000, and there are other mi- nor problems with Internet Ex- plorer 3.02 or earlier. There is some good news though; all these problems can be fixed by install- ing Service Pack 3 and Internet Explorer 4.0. Internet Explorer can be found anywhere and Ser- vice Pack 3 can be downloaded from the Microsoft site at http:// support. microsoft .c omlsu pport.' neberwr 'Content 'Service Packs' Whcrc.asp. Instructions on instal- lation will be provided. Windows 98 users do not need to worry about the millennium bug in their operating system be- cause Windows 98 was released after 1997 and is 100% year 2000 compliant. In fact, all products from Microsoft are 2000 compli~ ant ifthey were released after 1997. For those who are using a Macintosh and related software, Macintosh happily reports that any version of Mac OS is 2000 com- pliant as well as any of the related software from apple. Macintosh was having some fun when they said that the 64 bit time codes can handle the year from 30,000 BC to 29,940 AD. So in any case, Macintosh and related products will not have a prob- lem with the date for some time to come with the exception of Microsoft Office for Macintosh ver- sion 4.2 or earlier. This includes older versions of Excel and Word as well. Please refer to the Macintosh homepage for more details. Lastly, I will briefly discuss some ofthe basic applications for IBM based systems. The first pro- gram up is Office 95. Microsoft reports that this is compliant with minor issues. There are two problems. The first is the clock is system dependent, which is an extension problem with the operating system. For instance ifthe operating sys- tem has minor issues with the clock then so does any program that shares this resource, office 95 and 7.0 included. The other problem is 2 digit shortcut shared resource .DLL file. Installing Windows with OS2, or Internet Explorer 3. 0 or later can fix this. Office 97 is year 2000 compliant. The only other program that I will discuss is Quicken. Quicken for Dos and Windows Versions 1- 5 can handle the date through 2027 except for the online banking op- tions in version 5. For versions 6, 98, 99 the upper 2027 year limit is still in effect but 3 0 year bonds are now starting to cross that barrier so Quicken reports that they are wo. ,-ing on that problem but there is no version of quicken released that does not have the 2027 limit. The millennium bug is ap- proaching soon so if any of the programs that were mentioned are being used, it is suggested that you install the update for the product before it is too late. In any case, your hard drive will not be erased. There will just be many problems with the operating system or in running the application and such things along those lines. To recap, the programs that have the bug that were included in this article are: Windows 95 (all versions), Win- dows NT 4.0 (without service pack 3 ), older versions of Excel and Word for Macintosh, and Office 95 or Office 7.0. For specific questions about cer- tain programs or questions and comments in eneral about this ar- ticle, e-mail me at: ausfeldj@vu.union.edu. RITE AID Photo Processing Go to RITE AID for All of Your Photo Processing Needs RITE AID is located on VanVranken Avenue (518) 381-4843 Photo Rite Quality, Serivce and Convenience in as little as One Hour

~.!J Positions Available Now! . The Annual Giving Office is looking for qualified, energetic and dedicated students to call Union College alumni and parents to raise annual funds. Interviews will be held the week of October lOth. Desirable salary and bonuses. If you are interested in joining the Annual Giving Affiliates Team CALL NOW! Annual Giving Office- Fero House 388-6142 CDC Updates ••• Sept. 24: Today!t CAREER FESTIVAL 12-4pm in the Field House. All wel~orne. S~pt. 25: On-CamplL<i Re<!ruidrag Sign lfps: To participate. you must complete the Ret;ruiting Contract;. ~CDC for details. Tum in a resume and ttanscript!application. if ~uired, for each com- pany you want tO interview. (Updates oh our webpage.) • .Resume Drop Deadline: by 5pm • Special Drop .. In Hours: 9-Spm for resume critique · ·Sept. 30:. ''M~eting Your Liberal Arts Degree'., 7pm, CDC Learn the job search strategies necessary to get the j<>b you ·want with your Liberal Arts degree. Find out how to market your skills to employers through interviewing. For all liberal .arts graduating students! Oct.. I: E'Law ScltoolApptieatio11 Process\' ·4pm. CDC With Profe...Sor Weiner, Law School Advisor · ActuaQ:y Careers for tnath majors: Interested in learning more? Attend info program in NYC (ln 10/18, Details at CDC. Cluele$$ about careers? Check. out Experi~nce On.Line. Explore typicallibctal arts careers through our website. Oo into JobsJE-xploration. then click on Experience On-1ine. User name \union\; password •• garrtet\. Great info on' entry level jobs. Check out tbe CDC events wander (.)n.tme at tattp://www.uniQn.edulc.areer/cdc/cdc/html When som6thin.g is too <l'><treme fo; word-s., it's to the Ntn degree, And thot's the level of fechnolo(Jy you'll <D<pcricnce at R~tyfhcon. R.\ytheon hos formed o .\\'W tecnno!cgi<.:ol superpower. Raytheon !)yst<>m~ Com pony, composed of Te>ur maior !echn 0 logical giont;: Raytheon f::leciruruc Systems, Raytheon !:-Systems, Raytheon Tl Sy>tems. ond Hughc; Aircrcft. Th~ new R.aytheon Systems Cornpe>ny is driving technology to th~< lirutt. And were lookmg for engineers who wont to push the envelope Break new ground Make theft- mark. · At Raytheon, you'll toke technology- and your career- to the highe~l po 5 sible leveL You'll take it to the Nth. We.~ovo a lot to t~~l you about the new Roythoon Systems Company and the e><<:rhng opporlunrt.es we hove a\oilable. Plan on visiting our booth at your college coroer fotr. If you ore unable to ot1end the foir then check out our website at www.royiobs.corn ond plen~e >end your te~vmu to. Raytheon Resume Proces!.ing C~mter, P.O. Box 6602 4·o, MS. 201, Dolfas, TX 7 52 66. it I ~ ·It was just. a summer job& Novv it's the rest of your life. r- l Rernt:tnUcr Wll~''l \{UU\ t/9t;e·s~ .:;.Jrer>r !..Vf'i((~ff! l\·d~ r~n.n '1~-~ ).J \;f PJ~!t:,. ~ ,lp~. :lr-~1 :v•l'.'' ~~ .,.,.;1\ -~tL!) :.: ~\\']'' i:L~ d'''r (,u mrner jov t:et.:3uSQ it v~a.~ iu.lt a 5\JPlrrn:r lt.-iJ:; i~JCrN yc;u'r(' qr3du;.Jtin~. Y(JU \NCHit ~i Cdn.:rr \'q,jl lvl 1 ' cr~ai!Cf':-lt' ?')) '[~'..C!·, ,;jr ~l·H: .._;·.-::.-r .i \:.1r 1 ct~ .:· ':;'',',.:.. '. it-~ You want t(J ·;,ori<. vJht:lt: thl' le<.1r•1inq c urv~ dot'<,n\t ll;,t t(·rt t•U! .1fttr ;; ••lu,Jk <;I y( ;,r~ .:\t Arl(it:rs~>n Cnn-,u:tir g, c .• r ;:1!;;1\t'n<.:e·, rh.;,nqe dJdy, !:i\e t'JC WO!'~ :-; \'llicl': ,.,r wo·< OL1' ,ob ·~ t~ '\e 1 ~ ,-:,, .. ,, E<ffrlt.:vl:y m:J'lil'l'' tlw, cl·\;nyr !o llt rpore >'K(('1'ifu:. L<:..irn more about the- t:Yctt;n~ opportunities that exi-,l.Jt Ant~er<;rr. Ccn~ul:.rHJ t.:-1 tJ:~.n~: one-o\·c•nc ,., 'h •)v profcs:.ionHI> vVho are Ur·FJD ColkfJe al,trnn i. Please visit us at today's Career Fair and attend our Information Session this evening at 7 p.m. J in the Hale House Dining Room. Resume submission deadline is tomorrow, Friday, September 25. Vtltl uJt web st;e at www ~t-.COI',. A:tde·•sen (OI';c.lting ·~ ~~~ l4l•al Opportunity Employe-' ·, W9a Anct'sen Comullr~g Andersen Con·;ulting \\'

('\::: .. .. =.·~\ 1~ ~- 1 ¢~' PositionsAvailableNow! The Annual Giving Office is looking for qualified, energetic and dedicated students to call Union College alumni and parents to raise annual funds. Interviews will be held the week of October 1oth. Desirable salary and bonuses. If you are interested in joining the Annual Giving Affiliates Team CALL NOW! Annual Giving Office- Fero House 388-6142 tJH!O..-.,r COU EGE Greet Dt'Delvpmml Centrr CDC Updates Sept.. 24: Today!t CAREER FESTIVAL 12-4prn in the Field House. All welcome. ••• Sept. 25: On-Campi.L<; Recruiting Sign lfps: To participate, you must complete the Recruiting Contract;. see CDC fo.r details. Thrn in a resume and transcript/application. if required. for each com- pany you want to interview. (Updates on our webpage.) • Resume Drop Deadline: by Spm. • Special Drop-In Hours: 9-Spm for resume critique Sept. 30: \Marketing Your Liberal Arts Degree\ 7pm. CDC Learn the job search strategies necessary to get the job you want with your Liberal Arts degree. Find out how to market your skills to employers tlwough interviewing. For all liberal aits graduating students! Oct. 1: \Law School Application Process\ 4pm, CDC With Profe..'iSorWe:iner, Law School Advisor Actuary Careers for math majors: Interested in learning more? Attend info program in NYC on 10/18. Details at CDC. Clueless about careers? Check out Experience On-Line. Explore typical liberal arts careers through our website. Go into Jobs/Exploration. then click: on Experience On-line. User name \union\; password \garnet''. Great info on entry level jobs. Check out the CDC events calander on-line at: http://www.uni,m.edu/career/cdc/cdc/htmJ Whor1 >.f)rn<tJth,ng :!-.too e~:.trt>3H1U fQ: ward~. at~ h> fht: Nth dou· ... e .. .:: .And tltur ... 1 ; 1 t.. lc.el of lochnc'logy you'll '\PL'\':r'''' ·~I Rovihe.o<~ R.tJylnn.<Jrt bo•. fo~n,,o::cl .:;-1 r1uw tt:r..::htlO!O<.Ji~ ·1 · J\•\', ...... ,.r '--, t/ 1 · c • , .. • • l\ ,._. ;-' ... r..'\\' y '-' '-1 f l .., ,..~ ... t\l' •, ~ornp<l\fl')'. l01npr..1~i:Od uf toJr •purc,r tPChiacdvg,tol <JifJ'<t:... ~uy• 1 - 1 pun f:.lo~..·c1•uf 1 ,.:_ Sy'itn:n~:;, Ruythec..Jn t- ~)'~t~·1F) RCl)tri~<'.Ht fl :,..,·d~·n:•_. onrl tltJ.cih..._.,. A 1 rcrcft Tho no-...v R.oytl,con Sv~ft.'nt:. Cr)rnprJr>y ~~ dr1 .. ·1n~J ft-t(~lnolugy 1v ··!.~_- 1 1 n 11 t l><nd ,..,.u·tc- loo-~tf'lg for C>rl~Jifll\t:H s ~Yho woPt to ~Ju:.h tt\'t! t,:snvt•ln~rc Arc.:uj.. nuv., gcc.l~r 1 d lv~ake the-!! \1ork At Ro y!&1r:.'!'Orl.- y•)u'\1 tuke t<?chct< .. Jiotjy ond your 'orc~(·r to irlf.;o h 1 qht:,<;i pt)· .. ~~blL· k:vc' 1ov·u laku •t to thu Nt1~ · \\'.'~ .h:cwo a lot to 1£'-1~1 you ob<H•t 1he- r1cw Rnyfnj•on S.y!:.tt:fJI::. Conif .. ):2r1y orld tht', exc•hr~g O[)pOrtvnshus. w~ hnvd a .... oilabic Pion l)n '<\1~11109 ovr bnvth ot y'-..::ur (.Oift:::~~o coroot fa1r H you nrp 0rH1bl£· to oHend the fo!f thu'1 (·heck out c;u,. 'lrVt~b·, Tt' at .........,, ..... ,. ...... rayjobs corn ond ;:JIFo~e ~end -,·ou\' ru\-.vr't1U 1o Rovtn,rvn Rc'S-IIH~(.· l'rc.-u~,,;,~ Confer. PO Ht>x 6t.0\2·i6 MS 201 OCll:a· •. T.< 757A6 . . - ~ .... -r .... -~- ' It was just a sun1rner job~ Now it's the rest of your life~ •j' . • • ~ ! , • ~\ /, -:·. < r. • ;\.. 'J . ;i .. , .. _~.;.,1~:t. : .. ;· •. :,•···· ·~ .... •'' I ., ~' • J • • !' J':_· t ,.\ t r·. '· .1 t · r ,I· r ( •' J ' • .... ~ :' l :, ·~ I ~· ·• • j. , Please vi~it us at today's Career Fair and attend our I nfor rnation Session this evening at 7 p.m. ' in the Hale House Dining Room. .. ' .. Resume submission deadline is tomorrow, Friday, September ?.5. '.lhrt .,._11 \~.:1 t ',r7( ...t\ ,.',./V.'. ,-, CiJ\'' t•, .,:c··le·l (~·I\ •. 1'1'·•. '.,J l••t-,!1 :.:··~;.1~1!,..-. !\. F·Tq~ 1 ··.r· l_•:Jr ... ~:. --{ '\t n, :-n ... l',··lJ Andersen Cow;ulting

.... , Coffee House Proves To Be A Success by Gina LaSorsa Staff Writer Last Tuesday marked the open- ing night of the Coffee. House at Ra:ymond north. The attendance and the performances at the Cof- fop House Cabaret impressed ev- eryone. The cabaret featured residents of The Society and was followed by an open mic, where everyone and anyone was invited to perform. The night began with Patrick Strong '0 1 and Seth Madison, also kn()wn as Fool's of Ourselves. TlJey played a few of their original songs, including Walking to My Farm, Le Bleues de Sofipack, and Rapture of the Carnie. Steve Beddes '00 then went on stage and performed There's Something About Ray by the Lemonheads and The Gambler. Jonathan Albert '00, who decided to take a break fr()m the music to read a few po- ems he had written, followed Bed des. Michael Capraro '0 1 and Martha Kronholm '01 both performed on stage together and then separately with vocals and guitar playing. Loralynne Krobetzky '00 read a p()ern, which was one ·of her per- sotlal favorites. Seth Madison de- cided to perform his hit single Candy Lady, which is always a fa- vcHite at the Coffee House. Marius Calin '00 read a few se- lect poems he had written himself, including The Forgotten Few and Angel. Dave Martin '01 went on stage with his guitar to perform Hurricane by Bob Dylan, and he also read The Winclol1!, a poem he had written. After the cabaret, tile stage was open to anyone who wished to perform. Brian Mitcllell '99 per- formed a selection of songs by various artists on his gllitar with vocals. Mitchell was requested to play an encore performance later . in the evening. Deric Harrington '01, whose sense ofhumor was greatly appre- ciated, provided comic relief for the audience between the m!lsical in- terludes. Towards the end ofthe night, Steve Borer '99 decided to play a collection of songs by Matchbox 20 and Green Day on llisg11itar with vocals as well. The first official Coffee House of the year proved t() be a great success. Everyone in attendance really enjoyed themsehes,and the performances were impressive. I think everyone was surprised by the turnout, considering it was the first Coffee House ofth~ faiJ term. If you would like to perform at the Coffee House, you can call me at x5812. We are always looking for people with various talents, s<J donot hesi- tate to call. The Coffee House is open every Tuesday starting.at 8:00 PM, and the entire carnpus is in- vited to come for some free coffee, tea, hot chocolate, and e!ltertain- rnent. Congratulations again to everyone who helped t() make the night a big hit! Ladies and Gentle01en, Boys and Girls of All Ages, and Nyquil Drunkards by Deric Harrington Contributing Writer First off, I'd like to take the time to thank everyone that wrote me last week to respond to my col urnn. Thank you ... no one. That'sright, no one wrote to me. Now, ithope- fully is because I didn't have the address right in the column, so here it is again: SlapyMcgee@aol.com. Now, onto the topic of the week:. doggie porn! Wait, sorry, that's the wrong pa- per. Theater, that's what I meant to say. . Pd like to theater de- partment for putting on the audition workshop this past week. For those of you that missed it, I'll tell you ab_put it (your lives are becom- ing full . ?) meanmg, no .. The audition workshop was a chance for anyone that wanted a little more confidence, not only in auditions, but in public speaking in general, to learn all of the ins and outs of the auditioning pro- cess. Yes, there was a main focus in the audition process, but it is easily transferable to any situa- tion where you have to talk in front of anyone (and if you've never been in that situation, you must be one ofth.ose Webster people from Matty G's column from last week ... waitasec. I'moneofth()se people.) Why the hell am I typing ibis when I can obviously just send telepathic messages? 1 mean, it's not like I have any friends, or get out of the dorm; I've just bee11 in- volved with 4 plays last year, h.ave done WRUC twice, and spend as much time in the dorm as I do o11t of it. OK, my Little rant is over, Matty doesn't even know me, se why should he respect decisions 'I make inmylife1. Anyway, now that I'm off my pedestal, back to the audition work· shop: I can not recommend going to it enough ifthere is another one here in the future; you've got noth- ing to lose. Onto subject number two: Jackie Chan Focks my proverbial W(}rld. I saw Rush Hour last night, and I have to say that if you get a chance, go and see it; it's great. You know, I said last week that if you saw someone who looks like m~ (dressed in black, bandT-shirt on) to say hi. One person did. Thank you mystery person! You made my week. I really wish I had m()re to write this week, but to be honest,. it's been kind of an off week, I mean, not a whole lot has happened. I went mini-golfing here on cam- pus on Friday, and I have a few things to say about that {mostly in false anger ... I'rrt an actor, I can do that). First off, the posters showed an I81h hole, and there were- only 9 there. Corne on! That's false ad- vertising! Secondly, the balls were plastic whiffle golf balls; yeah, they're safer if you're hitting a driver shot at someone, but we're talking mini g()lf. Go out, splurge next time, get another 9 h.oles, S<;Jme real balls .(in- sert favorite sexual joke here, it's too easy for me), and then come back. Speaking of coming back, I fell asleep the week this summer that swing came back. Admittedly, it seems as though the only swing songs I hear on the radio are by Cherry Poppin Daddies and that one from the Kakis commer- cial. However, I love to watch people swing dance; it's poetic. Two people with a connection to know what the other is going to do next; and to trust in that person, isreally s0methingto see. There's no fear in their eyes as one of them jumps into the other's arms. I think that swing is a great example of what we all need to do. Take the · ump, see where you land. Who ext Jen Jakubowski! Finally, . 'd like to a short is my choice for the week. Now, before you write this off as another heavy metal band, I have to tell you that you're really far off with that assumption. Tiamat plays a mood, emotion music, similar to Pink Floyd (Tiamat even covers Floyd on a single for the song Gaia). Tiamat presents a world created within their music, where anything can happen. There are songs about love, drugs, and the indecipherable, and all are beautiful. If you ever do want to pick up one of their albums, I suggest Deeper Kind of Slumber. Do your- self a favor and give something new a try. Why, just yesterday, I tried smoking crack ... uhhh ... wait, no I didn't. I'm still going to Soulfly next week, if anyone is interested in going, let me know. \The trend is dead, thank (something I can't print) God\ -Phil Anselmo

Coffee House Proves To Be A Success by Gina LaSorsa Staff Writer Last Tuesday marked the open- ing night of the Coffee- House at Raymond north. The attendance and the performances at the Cof jeP House Cabaret impressed ev- eryone. The cabaret featured residents of The Society and was followed by an open mic, where everyone and anyone was invited to perform. The night began with Patrick Strong '0 I and Setb Madison, also known as Fool's of Ourselves. They played a few of their original songs, including Walking to My Farm, Le Bleues de Softpack, and Rapture of the Carnie. Steve Bed des '00 then went on stage and performed There's Something About Ray by the Lemonheads and The Gambler. Jonathan Albert '00, who decided to take a break from the music to read a few po- ems he had written, followed Beddes. Michael Capraro '0 I and Martha Kronholm '01 both performed on stage together and then separately with vocals and guitar playing. Loralynne Krobetzky '00 read a poem, which was one of her per- sonal favorites. Seth Madison de- cided to perform his hit single Candy Lady, which is always a fa- vorite at the Coffee House. Marius Calin '00 read a few se- lect poems he had written himself, including The Forgotten Few and Angel. Dave Martin '01 went on stage with his guitar to perform Hurricane by Bob Dylan, and he also read The Window, a poem he had written. After the cabaret, the stage was open to anyone who wished to perform. Brian Mitchell '99 per- formed a selection of songs by various artists on his guitar with vocals. Mitchell was requested to play an encore performance later in the evening. Deric Harrington '0 I, whose sense ofhumor was greatly appre- ciated. provided comic rei ief for the audience between the musical in- terludes. Towards the end of the night, Steve Borer '99 decided to play a collection of songs by Matchbox 20 and Green Day on his guitar with vocals as well. The first official Coffee House of the year proved to be a great success. Everyone in attendance really enjoyed themselves, and the performances were impressive. I think everyone was surprised by the turnout, considering it was the first Coffee House ofthe fall tenn. I fyoa would like to perform at the Coffee House, you can call me at x5812. We are always looking for people with various talents, so do not hesi- tate to call. The Coffee House is open every Tuesday starting at 8:00 PM, and the entire campus is in- vited to come for some free coffee, tea, hot chocolate, and entertain- ment. Congratulations again to everyone who helped to make the night a big hit! 998. Ladies and Gentle111en, B,oys and Girls of All Age,s, and Nyquil Drunkards by Deric Harringten Contributing Writer First off, I'd like to take the time to thank everyone that wrote me last week to respond to my column. Thank you ... no one. That's right, no one wrote to me. Now, it hope- fully is becaase I didn't have the address right in the column, so here it is again: SlapyMcgee@aol.com. Now, on to the topic of the week: doggie porn! Wait, sorry, that's the wrong pa- per. Theater, that's what I meant to say. I'd like to take a chance to thaHk the theater de- partment for putting on the audition workshop this past week. For those of you that missed it, I' 11 te 11 you about it (your lives are becom- ing full of . '~) meanmg, no .. The audition workshop was a chance for anyone that wanted a little more confidence, not only in auditions, but in public speaking in general, to learn all of the ins and outs of the auditioning pro- cess. Yes, there was a main focus in the audition process, but it is easily transferable to any situa- tion where you have to talk in ftont of anyone (and if you've never been in that situation, you must be one of those Webster people from Matty G 's column from last week ... wait a sec. I'moneofthose people.) Why the hell am I typing this when I can obviously just send telepathic messages? I mean, it's not like I have any friends, or get out of the dorm; I've just been i.n- volved with 4 plays last year, have done WRUC twice, and spend as much time in the dorm as I do out of it. OK, my I iule rant is over, Matty doesn't even know me, so why should he respect decisions I make in my life?. Anyway, now that I'm off my pedestal, back to the audition work- shop: I can not recommend going to it enough ifthere is another one here in the future; you've got noth- ing to lose. Ontosubjectnumbertwo: Jackie Chan rocks my proverbial world. I saw Rush Hour last night, and I have to say that if you get a chance, go and see it, it's great. You know, I said last week that if you saw someone who looks like me (dressed in black, band T-shirt on) to say hi. One person did. Thank you mystery person! You made my week. I really wish I had more to write this week, but to be honest, it's been kind of an offweek, I mean, not a whole lot has happened. I went minj-golfing here on cam- pus on Friday, and I have a few things to say about that (mostly in false anger ... I'm an actor, l can do that). First off, the posters showed an 18th hole, and there were only 9 there. Come on! That's false ad- vertising! Secondly, the balls were plastic wh iftle golf balls; yeah, they're safer if you're hitting a driver shot at someone, but we're talking mini golf. Go out, splurge next time, get another 9 holes, some real balls (in- sert favorite sexual joke here, it's too easy for me), and then come back. Speaking of coming back, l fell asleep the week this summer that swing came back. Admittedly, it seems as though the only swing songs I hear on the radio are by Cherry Pop pin Daddies and that one from the Kakis commer- cial. However, I love to watch people swing dance; it's poetic. Two people with a connection to know what the other is going to do next, and to trust in that person, is really something to see. There's no fear in their eyes as one of them jumps into the other's anns. I think that swing is a great example of what we all need to do. Take the u~np, see where you land. Who knows, maybe you could be the next Jen Jakubowski! Finally, I'd like to give a short \one of the best bands you've never heard of' re- The is my choice for the week. Now, before you write this off as another heavy metal band, I have to tell you that you're really far off with that assumption. Tiamat plays a mood, emotion music, simi Jar to Pink Floyd (Tiamat even covers Floyd on a single for the song Gaia). Tiamat presents a world created within their music, where anything can happen. There are songs about love, drugs, and the indecipherable, and all are beautiful. If you ever do want to pick up one of their albums, I suggest Deeper Kind of Slumber. Do your- self a favor and give something new a try. Why, just yesterday, I tried smoking crack ... uhhh ... wait, no I didn't. ['m still going to Soul fly next week, if anyone is interested in going, let me know. \The trend is dead, thank (something I can't print) God\ -Phil Anselmo L

<!tonc.o:rbi.ensis • September 24, 1998 • Page 15 Don't Forget About Proctor's by ])eric\Harriogton Contributing Writer into musical theater, at Proctor's you can have the opportunity to see Big in October. know about Proctor's musicals. Proctor's Theatre does not only perform musicals. The comic Rip Taylor will be performing in -A · Funny Thing Happened on the , Way to the Forum this October. Another comedy, Moon Over Buf- • '< Broadway on Broadway For all Who love tMater or even if yQu just enjoy tfr watch a show every now and then, I am asking you not to forget about the shows coming up at Proctor's. Proctor':s · Theatre is located on State Street, right here in Schenectady. Ifyou are like me and don't have a ton of money to spend; Pr~ctor's prices are geared toward the not-so- wealthy college student. Do you want to know what is coming up? Well, J.et's start with just some of the highlights that will be performingthisyear. Ifyouare ' ·~- -- ' ·.' .. ~, ~... ' Any Andrew· Lloyd Webber fans on Union's campus? If so, you cannot miss Sunset Boule- vard; whi~hopens in February. In April, Chicago will entertain you with the story of Roxie Hart. In May, you can't miss the inct:ed- ible daucing inthemusical Fame. A show that I know appeals to many students o:f'our generation, Rent, will be performing in June. Interested in the musical theater selections? Just find Union stu- dent Spencer Christie, tell him I sent you, and he will tell· you way m~re then you ever needed to .,. ' .. ' ' . ' \ ·- ~ - .. ; '. - . : - ·- .. by Speneet S. Christie Contributing Writer falo, starring Gavin MacLeod will On September 13, I had the for- open in Jan~ary. Proctor's can ap• tunate opportunity to see the an- peal to anyone's taste. nual \Broadway on Broadway\ Some of you concert which is held in Times may not know Square~ that Proctor's The free concert is given every Too performs year by The League of American here at Union Theatres and. Producer, Inc. to the C o 1 I e g e ' s anyone who wishes to show up and Yulman Theater. see the stars of most Broadway In November, In- shows giving a special perfor- tegrity Brings mance. With It An Some shows have done the con- Empty Plate, cert for years (Les Miserables, Ms. will come to the Saigon, Phantom of the Opera) Yulman. This and some shows have yet to open show promises in New York but promise to be part to be \cutting· . of the '98-99 season (On The ·edge\ with the . Town). single performer The highlights for me were basi- Michael Carson. cally seeing all of the new talent The Shoulder, a that has entered some very well show that will known shews and giving the show be coming to the a fresh sound. Ute Lemper has Yulman in Janu- · entered the cast of Chicago ary and Monster, a \provocative straight from her Oliver Award anddarklyfunny\show (London's version of the Tony) here in April. winning performance in the Lon- So, if you are looking for some- don cast. thing to do and quality theater Her voice is almost identical to sounds entertaining, please con- Bebe Neuwirth's except that her sider letting Procter's entertain vibrato is much more prevalent. you. Form~re information, just call The cast's '\All That Jazz\ is still Proctor's.at(518) 382-1083. more striking to see than. hear, as .· ·~ ;the dancing remains the best in town. Jekyll & Hyde also has a new cast member in Luba Mason, taking over for the departed Linda Eder, yet her striking duet with Christianne Noll, \In His Eyes,\ still has the power that has kept the show running over 50() perfor- mances. Will Chase entered the cast of Ms. Saigon recently andh.as given tlte character of Chris the voice tllat has long been missing from this show. Yet the main reason for attend- ing the concert was the promise of seeing Alice Riply (Tony nomi- nated for her performance in Side Show) who has just signed on to perform in Les Miserables as Fantine. Her version of\ I Dreamed a Dream\ was the best I have :beard. This is quite a statement considering Patti LuPone, Ruthie Henshall, and Judy Khun, among others, have performed the role of Fan tine. The concert was amazing, and I vtill definitely go back for as long as it is offered. If you are ready\ and willing to stay up all night, or have a friend in the·city, the con- cert is the perfect opportunity for the poor college student who wants to see the talent of Broad- way performing some of the most p()pular numbers on the stage to- day. A Healthy Investment in Your Future HIGH MARI<S FROM MORNINGS~AL S&~ MOODY'S, MONEY MAGAZINE.AND BILL. \'t:\\' Te take a lot of pride in gaining high marks. · V V from the major rnti.njf servic<$. But the fact is, we're e_qu~lyproud of the ratings~ get eveey day from .our participanta. Because at \I:lAA-CREE ensul'ing a he 6nancial futures of the educati<m and ;.,~arch com~u~ity is sometlaing th~ ~s beyond stars and num:l»er •. We beC!aBle the world's largest retirement orga- nization' by offedng pe9ple a wide range ot' sound investments, a commitment to su~riorserVice, and ~ .. o~atingexpensea tha.t are among the lowest in the insurance andm~tual fund industries~·· With 1'IAA.oCREF.you'll get the ~ht choices- and the dedication -to help you achieve a lifetime of .f!nancial goala. The leading experts agree. Sod.oesBUL Find out how TtAA-CREF OOIL help you build a. comforta.ble,!inanc:ially secure tomorrow. Visit our Web site atwww.tiaa.-cref.org ol'caU U8 at 1800,842-2776, Health Care. Those two word$ have been the source of much discussion recendy. Probably because we as a nation know the importance of investing in a healthy future. So do millions of patients who choose chiropractic as their preferred source of health care. The chiropractic beliefs in fitness, nutrition, prevention, and natural maintenance make good sense. Wellness, you see, is the normal state ofbeing. New York State government agrees. They have recently passed the Insurance Equality bill that mandates insurance coverage for chiropractic care. For over 75 years, New York Chiropractic College has upheld a tradition of excellence in chiropractic higher education. Our combilled. traditions, old and new, have built the base from which the chiropractic doctors of the future are created. Choose New York Chiropractic Coll~ge. A healthy investment for today and. tomorrow. Visit with a NYCC representative at the Graduate and Professional School Week on September 24, 10 AM .. 2 PM at Williams Student Center. \1 .,~ NEW YORK Al\\\llffllt. CHIROPRACTIC COLLEGE 2360 Route 89 Seneca Falls, NY 13148-0800 Phone: 3151568-3040 or 800/234-NYCC (692.2) Fax:315/568-3087 E-mail: enrolnow@nycc.edlJ

Arts & Entertainment Don't Forget About Proctor's by Deric Harrington Contributing Writer For all who love theater or even ifyoujust enjoy to watch a show every now and then, I am asking you not to forget about the shows coming up at Proctor's. Proctor's Theatre is located on State Street, right here in Schenectady. Ifyou are like me and don't have a ton of money to spend, Proctor's prices are geared toward the not-so- wealthy college student. Do you want to know what is coming up? Well, let's start with just some of the highlights that will be performing this year. Ifyou are into n:ll:lsical theater, at Proctor's ycu can. have the opportunity to see Big in October. Any Andrew Lloyd Webber faas on Union's campus? If so, ycu cannot miss Sunset Boule- vard, which opens in February. In Acpril, Chicago wiU entertain you with the story of Roxie Hart. In May, you can't miss the incred- ible dancing in the musical Fame. A show that I know appeals to many students of our generation, Rent, will be performing in June. Interested in the musical theater selections? Just find Union stu- dent Spencer Christie, tell him I se11t you, and he will tell you way more then you ever needed to know about Proctor's musicals. Proctor's Theatre does not only J!lerform musicals. The comic Rip Taylor will be performing in -A Funny Thing Happened on the Way .to the F arum this October. Another comedy, Moon Over Buf jato, starring Gavin MacLeod wiH open in January. Proctor's can ap- peal to anyone's taste. Some of you may not know that Proctor's Too performs here at Union College's Yulman Theater. In November, In- tegrity Brings With It An Empty Plate, will come to the Yulman. This show promises to be \cutting edge\ with the single performer Michael Carson. The Shoulder, a show that will be coming to the Yulrnan in Janu- ary and Monster, a \provocative and darkly funny\ show, will open here in April. So, if you are looking for some- thing to do and quality theater sounds entertaining, please con- sider letting Procter's entertain you. For more information, just call Proctor's at (518) 382-1083. ffiGH MARI<S FROM MORNINGS~ S&:P, MOODY'S, MONEY MA INE AND BILL. \\\{'\I Te ta.ke a lot of pride in gainl~g high marks V V from the major rating services. But the fact is, we're equally proud of the ratings we get every day fr-om our participants. Because at TlAA-CREF, ensuring tbe financial futures of the ~duca.tion and re~arch community is something that gaes beyond utars a.nd numbers We be-cam,. th<' wnrld's largest r\'tirement orga- nil.a.tion· !~·offering people a wide r.anJ~;e of sound in vestme-nts. a c-ommitment to nuperior s.e..-vice, ~.,d Ensuring the fut-un for those who shape it.\' operating expenses that are among tbe l~est in the insurance and mutual fund industries:•• With TIAA-CREF.you'll get the ~ht choices- and the dedication -to help you achieve a lifetime of~nancial goals. The leadin!!\ experts agree. So dues Bill. Find out how TIAA-CREF can help you build a <umfortable, financially L<'<'ur<' tomorrow. Visit our Web site at www.tia.a-cref.org or call u:. a.t ! 800 842-2776. ttrom:orhiensis • September 24, 1998 • Page 15 Broadway on Broadway by SpencerS. Cbristie Contributing Writer On September 13, I had the for- tunate opportunity to see the an- nual \Broadway on Bwadway\ concert which is held in Times Square. The free concert is given every year by The League of American Theatres and Producer, Inc. to the anyone who wishes to show hlp and see the stars of most Broadway shows giving a special perfor- mance. Some shows have done the con- cert for years (Les Miserahfes, Ms. Saigon, Phantom of thi.! Operu) and some shows have yet to open in New York but promise to be part of the '98-99 season (On The Town). The highlights forme were basi- cally seeing all of the new talent that has entered some very well known shows and giving the shew a fresh sound. Ute Lemper has entered the cast of Chicago straight from her Oliver Award (London's version of the Tony) winning performance in the Lon- don cast. Her voice is almost identical to Bebe Neuwirth's except that her vibrato is much more prevalent. The cast's \All That Jazz\ is still more striking to see than hear, as ~he dancing remains the best in town. Jekyll & Hyde also has a new cast rnernber in Luba Mason, taking over for the departed Linda Eder, yet her striking duet with Christianne Noll,' 'In His Eyes,\ still has the power that has kept the show running over 500 perfor- mances. Will Chase entered the cast of Ms. Saigon recently and has given the character of Chris the voice that has long been missing from this show. Yet the main reason for attend- ing the concert was the promise of seeing Alice Riply (Tony nomi- nated for her performance in Side Show) who has just signed on to perform in Les ,'1-fiserables as Fantine. Her version of\ I Dreamed a Dream\ was the best I have heard_ This is quite a statement considering Patti LuPone, Ruthie Henshall, and Judy Khun, among others, have performed the role of Fan tine. The concert was amazing, and I will definitely go back for as long as it is offered. If you are ready· and willing to stay up all night, or have a friend in the city, the con- cert is the perfect opportunity for the poor college student who wants to see the talent of Broad- way perfonning some ofthe most popular numbers on the stage to- day. A Healthy Investment in Your Future Health Care. Those two w<>rds have been the source of much discussion recently. Probably because we as a nation know the importance of investing in a healthy future. So do millions of patients who choose chiropractic as their preferred source of health care. The chiropractic beliefs in fitness, nutrition, prevention, and natural maintenance make good sense. Wellness, you sec, is the normal state ()fbeing. New York State government agrees. They have recently passed the Insurance Equality bill that mandates insurance coverage for chiropractic care. For over 75 years, New York Chiropractic College has upheld a tradition of excellence in chiropractic higher education. Our combined trarutions, old ~nd new, have built the base from which the chiropractic doctors of the future are created. Choose New York Chiropractic C\ollc-gc A healthy investment for today and tomorrow. Visit with a 1\i)'CC represen~at JI'C at the Craduate and Professitm.U School W{'{'k on Septemher 24, 10 A..i\1- 2 PM at Williams Student Center. ~~·~~· NEW YORK .~1l\\t l1f1J,. CHJROPHACllC COLLEGE .::J&a l{,Hltc S') ~cnc~a Fal!s, ;-..J.' 13148-0800 Phone. Jl5/56S -3J.t.D ur SOG/2.34-:\'YCC \69.:2) Fax:315/568-3087 E-mili: cnrolnc,-w@oycc.edu

Cross Country Looks For Greener Pa.sture by Hugh Meyer Contribllting Writer The Union Cross Country on a rn()re difficult course aJtd. Glenna also ran a very intelligent race.', Team traveled to the Green rught ()U the heels of . Mountains .ofVermont this past Amy Slal>iclt was Fresh- Saturday, September 19th to man Glen11a Malcolm, compete in the inaugural who fiuisbed in 21st Middlebury Invitational. While placewith.atimeof20:46. · both teams faced stiff competi- Not farbe.hu!dherteam.- tion, great strides w:ere made in mates was hmior Zea each race. Wrightin34-tll;place with The Union College Women a time of2l :51. Round- ran a smart team race over the ingoutthetopseven for 3.1 ~mile course and were able to the woinen were in 4 finish 6th outofnine teams. The place Elizabeth Henson speedy Sophomore Amy in a time of22:58, 45th Thewomen'scrossc~untryteamcatches up ontheraceleaders. Slahlch once ag~n led ilie p~oowruCBp~~K~e·~~~~~~~~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- women. Slabichfinished in 17th MacDowell in a time of 23:30. 48th pre-race mosh pit, set out to rim time of32:50. Sophomore Jeff place overall with a time of20:35. place went!() Emily Mcm;~ ina time of the 5.2-mile course with the goat Morse came in right behind Coach Charlie Casey was very 24: II and rounding out tne top seven ofkeeping each teammate in close Conley in 30th place with a time pleased with both Amy and waslreneKan.inatimeof24:34. contact. Theirultra•fastSeniorCo- of32:55. Glenna, \Amy ran the same time The Unio11 College Men, aftertheir Captain ?eter Flynn led the men. The spread between the .see- r--------~~-----------'--------~---,. Flynn fmished in 7th ond runner Scott and the fifth _,.· Nh:k Co.nway . place in ahighJy com- runner Morse was 1 :07; this petitive field, with a bodes well for future meets. In timeofi9:41. 38th place was terry Chang, in was Senior Co- '-' .. ,· .... \·'\ Hugh Meyer atime of32:17. a time of 35:45, and rounding out th.e top seven was Jon Nieman in, a time of36:54. With the next weekend off; The Union College Cross Coun- try team will look to train even harder and help get the injured runners back into form. In two weeks both teams will travel again to Hamilton College te compete in the UCAA league championship meet. A trio of Dutchmen attaok.the rest tJfthe field Meyer was freshman Matt Conley who fin- ished in 27ffl place in a This meet has always been a challenge for both squads, However, with two meets under its belt, Union anxiously awaits to display their increasing and ever-growing talent and experi- ence. Women's Soccer Beats Hamilton 2-1 by Brian Terlinsky Sports Editor On Tuesday, the Union Women's Soccer team took on a strong Hamilton squad at home, their first game after coming off a tough loss against SUNY Oneonta. This game, which took place during the first stages of the transition into the fall sea- son, with gray cloudy skies and cold winds, Union was able to pull out an important win, by the score of2-l. With the win, Union Women's Soccer record now stands. at 3-1. Last Tuesday, Union faced-off against SUNY Oneonta in a very close and equal match-up. Af- ter wining their own Invitational Tournament a few days before, the team came into this game pumped up to go 3-0 and unde- feated. Union was ·actually in control formost of the game, as they had the lead up until the last minutes of the second half. Samantha Ryall and Katie Smith, with as- sists by Julie Cardeti!no and Abby Harris, respectively, both helped Union keep on the win- ning track for the entire game. But with nine secondsremain- ing in regulation time. Oneonta would tie the game at 2 a piece, pushing the game into overtime. Eventually, the long game would end during the second overtime, as Oneonta connected, winning the gam.e by the score of 3..,2, Despite the loss, Union freshman forward Katie Smith was namedUCAA \Rookie ·of the Week,\ as she had a t<1tal of three goals during the past week ofpla:y. Smith who starts every game, likema.ny other freshmen play- ers, does n()t feel much pressure, but knows she and all the other new play- loss and was ready to compete with Hamilton on Tuesday. In the first half, Union definitely looked liked · the better team, as they kept much pressure on the ball, keeping it mostly in the Hamilton zone. Union was first to reach the scoreboard, when freshman Katie Smith kn()cked it ·passed the aunsteioYfC Jzmior F (}r.ward Samantha Ryall fights for the ball with a Hamilton difender. ers will haveto keep playing their best galtle. \lam luvrng so much fun play- ing here at Union and its such a great experience. We, as a team, are playing so well together and I hope we can be successful for tlle rest of the season,\ she said. Uni()n regr()uped from their overtime Hamilton goalie, at 15:59ofthe first half. Junior goalie Shannon Pow- ers also contributed towards the good defens.ive play of the team, making some fine saves and punts. With less then two minutes remain& ing in the first half, Union would extend their leadJ with a rd shot from senior captain Taryn Samol. The Dutchwomen headed into balftime · with a 2-0 lead. When the second half begin, it was quite a different game, as Union looked a little flatfooted, ·and seemed to think they al- ready had the game in hand. Union received a wake-up call very early in the second half, at the time of 38:44, when Hamilton scored, making it a one-goal game. For the rest of the time, Union was on top of their game, and wanted to ex- tend their lead any way pos- sible. Junior mid-fielder Julie · Cardettino had a great chance to score during the middle of the second half, as she made an amazing header into the net, ·but was stopped by the Hamilton goalie, who made a spectacular save. Union would go on and win the game by the score of2-I. Senior Taryn Samol was ex- cited about the win and the teams overall record. \We came into this gamereadytoplay. We definitely sparked in the first half, but although we looked a little sluggish in the second, we came out victorious and were all very happy,\ Sarno! said. Union plays Vassar this Sat- urday at noon for their Home- coming game.

·' ,- -,-, : .. '.--··.;;·:, Women'sSoccer· ' ' . . -. ·;.' -~-:,c .. : L-· :. · .;~~ •. _:1 ' • Cross Country Rugby Updates . .. ''·'· .. Tennis and more.e. Page16 Cross Country Looks For Greener Pasture ~ by Hugh Meyer Contributing Writer The Union Cross Country on a more difficult course and Glenna also ran a very intelligent race.\ Team traveled to the Green Right on the heels ef · Mountains of Vermont this past Amy Slabich was Fresh- Saturday, September 19th to man Glenna Malcolm, compete in the inaugural who finished in 21st Middlebury Invitational. While place with a time of20:46. both teams faced stiff competi- Not far behind her team- tion, great strides were made in mates was Jmtior Zea each race. Wright in 34th place with The Union College Women a time of21 :51. Round- ran a smart team race over the ing out the top seven for 3.1-mile course and were able to the women were in 41st finish 6th out of nine teams. The place Elizabeth Henson speedy Sophomore Amy in a time of22:58, 45th The women's cross country team catches up on the race leaders. Slabich once again led the placewasCap~inK~i~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- women. Slabich finished in 17th MacDowell in a time of 23:30. 48th pre-race mosh pit, set out to run time of32:50. Sophomore Jeff place overaU with a time of20:35. place went to Emily Morse in a time of the 5.2-m ile course with the goal Morse came in right behind Coach Charlie Casey was very 24: II and rounding out the top seven of keepiNg each teammate j,n close Conley in 30th place with a time pleased with both Amy and was Irene Kan in a time of24:34. C()ntact. Their ultra-fast Senior Co- of32:55. Glenna, \Amy ran the same time The Union College Men, after their Captain Peter Flynn led the men. The spread between the sec- ~---------------------------~Ry~fuiili~in7ili oodruoouSrottmdiliefiM A trio of Dutchmen attack the rest of the field place in a highly com- runner Morse was I :07; this petitive field, with a bodes well for future meets. In time of29:41. 38th place was Terry Chang, in Coach Casey noted a time of 35:45, and rounding that,\ Pete ran an ex- out the top seven was Jon ce llent race and this Nieman in a time of36:54. was a glimpse for more With the next weekend off, good things to come.\ The Union College CrossCoun- In 25th place with a try team will look to train even time of31 :48 was Jun- harder and help get the injured ior Kenny Scott. runners back into form. In two Casey said that, \this weeks both teams will travel was a breakthrough again to Hamilton College to race for Kenny.\ Right compete in the UCAA league on Scott's heels in 26th championship meet. place was Senior Co- This meet has always been a Captain Hugh Meyer challenge for both squads. in a time of32: 17. However, with two meets under Not far behind its belt, Union anxiously awaits Meyer was freshman to display their increasing and Matt Conley who fin- ever-growing talent and experi- ished in 27th place in a ence. Women's Soccer Beats Hamilton 2-1 by Rrian Terlinsky Sports Editor On Tuesday, the Union Women's Soccer team took on a strong Hamilton squad at home, their first game after coming off a tough loss against SUNY Oneonta. This game, which took the game by the score of3-2. Despite the loss, Union freshman forward Katie Smith was named UCAA \Rookie of the Week,\ as she had a total of three goals during the past week of play. Smith who starts every game, like many other freshmen play- ers, does not feel much pressure, but knows she and all the other neW play- loss ami was ready to compete with Hamilton on Tuesday. In the first half~ U11ion definitely looked liked the better team, as they kept much pressure on the ball, keeping it mostly En the Hamilton zone. place during the first stages of .---......, _______ _ U ni 011 was first to reach the scoreboard, when fre~hman Katie Smith knocked i.t passed the the transition into the fall sea- son, with gray cloudy skies and co]d winds, Union was able to pull out an important win, by the score of2-l. With the win, Union Women's Soccer record now stands at 3-1. Last Tuesday, Union faced-off against SUNY Oneonta in a very close and equal match-up. Af- ter wining their own Invitational Tournament a few days before, the team came into this game pumped up to go 3-0 and unde- feated. Union was\actually in control for most of the game, as they had the lead up until the last minutes of the second half. Samantha Ryall and Katie Smith, with as- sists by Julie Cardettino and Abby Harris, respectively, both helped Union keep on the win- ning track for the entire game. But with nine seconds remain- ing in regulation time, Oneonta would tie the game at 2 a piece, pushing the game into overtime. Eventually, the long game would end during the second overtime, as Oneonta connected, winning Aaron llraunstein\TC Junior Forward Samantha Ryallfightsfiuthe hall with a Hamilton defender. ers will have to keep playing their best game. \I am having so much fun play- ing here at Union and its such a great experience. We, as a team, are playing so well together and I hope we can be successful for the rest of the season,\ she said. Union regrouped from their overtime Hamilton goalie, at 15:59 of the first half. Ju_nior goalie Shannon Pow- ers also contributed towards the good defensive play of the team, making some fine saves and punts. With less then two minutes remain- ing in tile first half, Union would extend tlleir lead, with a rd shot from senior captain Taryn Sarno!. The Dutchwomen headed into halftime with a 2-0 lead. When the second half begin, it was quite a different game, as Union looked a little flatfooted, and seemed to think they al- ready had the game in hand. Union received a wake-up call very early in the second half, at the time of 38:44, when Hamilton scored, making it a one-goal game. For the rest of the time, Union was on top of their game, and wanted to ex- tend their lead any way pos- sible. Junior mid-fielder Julie Cardettino had a great chance to score during the middle of the second half, as she made an amazing header into the net, but was stopped by the Hamilton goalie, who made a spectacular save. Union would go on and win the game by the score of2-l. Senior Taryn Samol was ex- cited about the win and the teams overall record. \We came into this game ready to play. We definitely sparked in the first half, but although we looked a little sluggish in the second, we came out victorious and were all very happy,\ Sarno! said. Union plays Vassar this Sat- urday at noon for their Home- coming game. I I I I I I

I 1 l Sports Special Teams Block A WPI Victory Coach John Audino Earns 50th Win in 34-15 triumph by David Brooks Sports Ediicn The Figh~iJlg Dutchtnellhrought their 1.:0 record to WPI, another J-() team, on Satur- day and were aQle close outthe day with a 34-15 victory. The Dutchmen upped their record to 2-0, giving coach John Audino his 6:41left in the second quarter. However with ten seconds left, Jim Kochan blocked a field goal attempt by WPI, picked up the hall who then latera:led to James Rozakis who ran 58 yards for the touchdown, giving Union a 20-9lead at half-time. Coach Audino must have had some strong words for the Dutchmen during half-time as they came out frred up and l9oking strong. Once again, however, it was special teams. Jay Weiner The Dutchmen celebrate after Joe Attanasio recovers the ball for a touchdown following Devon Wim~erly's blocked punt in thefirstquarter. 50th victory at Union College, bringing his record to 50-11. Althou.gh the Dutchmen more than doubled the WPI points, it was the outstanding play of special teams and defense that were able to keep Union unde- feated. The game started out very smoothly for the Dutchmen. Less then tlrree minutes into the game, :freshman quarterback.Ben Gilbert connected With Dave Robbins on a 19 yard touchdown pass, the longest pass from scrimmage for Union. After that, the offense struggled. On WPI' s third drjve of the game, Devon Wimberly cameup with a block punt, which Joe Attanasio recovered in the end zone for a touchdown. In the second quarter Union could not get a single first down and had to punt four times. Behind the strong ann of John Riccio the engineers closed the lead to 14-9 with With 3:15left in the third quarter, Attanasio blocked a punt and Kochan recovered the ball and ran two yards for a Dutchmen touch- down, giving Union a 27-9lead. Early in the fourth quarter freshman Henry Paple lead the team on its longest drive. Paple engineered a 60 yard drive that lasted 2:49 and ended with an eight yard touch- down pass to Dan Bamford. The Dutchmen then lead 34-9, and it would stay that way until5:361e:ft in the game when WPI quarter- back John Riccio had a one yard touchdown run shrinking, the Dutchmen lead to 34-I5. That was as far as Riccio could lead his team, as the game ended with the Dutchmen win- ning34-15. Looking at the stats, WPI dominated the ganie. They were able to control the ball for 34 minutes, while Union only had the ball for 26 minutes. WPI had 21 first down, to Union's 11. WPI had 332 total yards, to Union's208. WPI converted on 7 on24third downs while Union was only able to convert on I of 11. Simply stated, the offense struggled. In second half, the strongest part ·Of the offense, were their linemen. Despite only gaining 208 yards, they were dominat- ing WPI's front four. Although Union had only I 05 passing yards, the pass protection was quite strong. Union also only rushed able to contain their offense.\ The most amazing stat of the game was that the Union run defense only gave up 9 rushing yards on 26 attempt.. The defense was led by was Kochan who had six tackles, a blocked kick, an interception, and a touchdown. Kochan was named \Defensive Player of the Week\ by both the UCAA and the ECAC. Follow- ing Kochan, were Attanasio who had six tackles, a blocked punt, and a touchdown, Jay Weiner Dennis Sanabia eludes this WPI defender enroute to 34-15 Dutchmen win. for 1 03 yards, but the offensive line was cre- ating holes. Part of the slow rushing game was due to a leg injury to Jay Warzala, limit- ing him to 83 yards. Along with the injury, WPI' s linebackers and secondary were con- verging on the Union running backs before they were able to break free. Coach Audino commented, \Maybe we didn't give the of- fense enough time this week.\ After gaining 524 total yards last week, it didn't seem as though the offense needed any work. How- ever, with two freshman quarterbacks, there are still quite a few unanswered questions. The defense, on the other hand, played a very strong game. Although they gave up 323. passing yards, the WPI quarterback set a UCAA record with 70 pass attempts. When a team throws that many times, it is hard not to give up those numbers. Said Jim Kochan \We were out there for a while, but were still senior captain Jim Rozakis, who had nine tackles, senior captain John Visconti, who had three tackles and a sack, and sopho- more Devon Wimberly, who had three tack- les and a blocked punt, bringing his season totaJ to three. Added Wimberly, \Special teams had a awes(} me game. We had great success penetrating th.eir line.\ The team still has to feel very strong after starting their season 2-0. Union will clearly spend a great deal cf time working out the kinks in the offense this week in practice. On Saturday, Union faces a very strong Hobart team and }()oks to go 3-0 in front of a Homecoming crowd. Hobart had a bye week last week after coming off a tough 15- 9 loss to Dickenson. With plenty of rest, Hobart is ready to give Union a run for their money. Come cheer on the Fighting Dutch- men this Saturday at 1:00 PM. Dutchmen Details Passing Corn~/Att Yards 1D INf Ben Gilbert 7/16 70 1 I HenryPaple 213 35 1 1 Rushing Att Yards 1D Long JayWarzala 14 84 0 22 Matt Frese 8 28 0 22 Dennis Sanabia6 28 0 14 Defense SDio Tackles Tackles INr Sacks Punt/Kick Blocks 1D Jim Kochan 5 6 I 0 1 1 JimRozakis 9 9 0 0 0 l Joe Attansio 6 6 0 0 1 l -

c- is 1 \ in ( > r !. f1 i t t I ' r I i a f I ~~ i I f I I l 'I I I I 4 l ! l Sports <!Ion.cnr.ltit~sis • September 24, 19.98 • Page 17 Special Teams Block A WPI Victory Coach John Audino Earns 50th Win in 34-15 triumph by David Brooks Sports Eclitor The Fighting Dutclunen brought their 1-0 record to WPI, another l-'0 team, on Saru.r- day and were able close out the day with a 34-15 victory. The Dutchmen upped their record to 2~0, giving coach John Audiu his 6:41 left in 1he second quarter. However with ten seconds left, Jim Kochan blocked a field goal attempt by WPI, picked up the ball who then lateraled to James Rozakis who ran 58 yards for the touchdown, giving UnioN a 20-9 lead at half-time. Coach Audino mustha:ve had some strong words forthe Dutchmen during half-time as they came o11t fired up and looking strong. Once again, however, it was special teams. Jay Weiner The Dutchmen celebrate after Joe Attanasio recovers the ball for a touchdown following Devon Wimberly's blocked punt in the first quarter. 50th victory at Union CoHege, bringing his record to 50-11. Although the Dutchmen more than doubled the WPI points, it was the outstanding play of special teams and defense that were able to keep Union unde- feated. The game started out very smoothly for the Dutchmen. Less then three minutes into the game, freshman quarterback Ben Gilbert connected with Dave Robbins on a 19 yard touchdown pass, the longest pass from scrimmage for Union. After that, the offense struggled. On WPI's thirddriveofthegarne, Devon Wimberly came up with a block punt, which Joe Attanasio recovered in the end zone for a touchdown. In the second quarter Union could not get a single first down and had to punt four times. Behind the strong arm of John Riccio the engineers closed the lead to 14-9 with With 3: 15left in the third quarter, Attanasio blocked a punt and Kochan recovered the ball and ran two yards for a Dutchmen touch- down, giving Union a 27-9 lead. Early in the fourth quarter freshman Henry Paple lead the team on its longest drive. Paple engineered a 60 yard drive that lasted 2:49 and ended with an eight yard touch- down pass to Dan Bamford. The Dutchmen then lead 34-9, and it would stay that way until5:36leftin the game when WPI quarter- back John Riccio had a one yard touchdown run shrinking. the Dutchmen lead to 34-15. That was as far as Riccio could lead his team, as the game ended with the Dutchmen win- ning34-15. Looking at the stats, WPI dominated the game. They were able to control the ball for 34 minutes, while Union only had the ball for 26 minutes. WPI had 21 first down, to Union's II. WPI had 332 total yards, to Union's 208. WPI converted on 7 on 24 third downs whi.le Union was only able to convert on 1 of 11. Simply stated, the offense struggled. In second half, the strongest part of the offense, were their linemen. Despite only gaining 208 yards, they were dominat- ing WPI's front four. Although Union had only 105 passing yards, the pass protecti.on was quite strong. Union also only rushed able to contai11 their offense.\ The most amazing stat ofthe game was that the Union run defense only ~ave up 9 rushing yards on 26 attempt. rhe defense was led by was Kochan who had six tackles, a blocked kick, an interception, and a touchdown. Kochan was named \Defensive Player of the Week\ by both the UCAA and the ECAC. Follow- ing Kochan, were Attanasio who had six tackles, a blocked puat, and a touchdown, Jay Weiner Dennis Sanabia eludes this WPI defender enroute to 14-15 Dutchmen win. for I 03 yards, bat the offensive line was cre- ating holes. Part of the slow rushing game was due to a leg injury to Jay Warzala, limit- ing him to 83 yards. Along with the injury, WPI's linebackers and secondary were con- verging on the Union running backs before they were able to break free. Coach Audino commented, \Maybe we didn't give the of- fense enough time this week.\ After gaining 524 total yards last week, it didn't seem as though the offense needed any work. How- ever, with two freshman quarterbacks, there are still quite a few unanswered questions. The defense, on the other hand, played a very strong game. Although they gave up 323 passing yards, the WPI quarterback set a UCAA record with 70 pass attempts. When a team throws that many times, it is hard not to give up those numbers. Said Jim Kochan \We were out there for a while, but were still sellior captain Jim RoUtkis, who had nine tackles, senior captain John Visconti, who had three tackles and a sack, and sopho- more Devon Wimberly, who had three tack- les and a blocked JlUilt, bringing his season total to three. Aclded Wim~eriy, \Special teams had a awesome game. We had great success penetratitlg tbeir line.\ The team still ha.s to fee] very strong after starting their seaso11 2-0. Union will clearly spend a great deal of time working out the kinks in the offense this week in practice. On Saturday, Union faces a very strong Hobart team and lo~ ks to go 3-0 in front of a Homecoming cr<Jwd. Hobart had a bye week last week after coming off a tough 15- 9 loss to Dickenson_ With plenty of rest, Hobart is ready to give U nionarun for their money. Come cheer <Jn tile Fighting Dutch- men this Saturday at 1:00PM. Dutchmen Details Passing Ben Gilbert Henry Paple Rushing JayWarzala Matt Frese Dennis Sanabia6 Defense Jim Kochan JimRozakis Joe Attansio UNION .. • ••• ... ; ' '<-~. ' . •• Rensselaer .:· :,: · ' ' Hobart·· ·· · Rochester··\·· St. Lawrence · Comp/Att 7/16 2/3 Att 14 8 28 Solo Tackles 5 9 6 Yards ID INf 70 I 35 I Yards ID Long 84 0 22 28 0 22 0 14 Tackles INf Sacks Punt/Kick Blocks ID 6 I 0 1 9 0 0 0 l 6 0 0 1

Page 18 • September 24, 1998 • a!nm.nbi~ttsh;~ Sports Iron-Man Cal Takes A Day Off by David Brooks Sports Editor The la,stday Cal Ripken Jr. t()ok a day off, Ronald Reagan was:?resi- dent, big hair was coo'!, :kids. pegged their jeans, and I was only 4 % years old. The day was May 30, 1982. In his first full year as a Baltimore Oriole and a major le<1gue baseball player, he was named \AL Rookie of the Year\ and no ()fie thought he was the man who would break Lou Gehrig's record ofZ,l 30 consecutive games played. He had an amazing streak, not only did he play every night., but he also contr·ibuted a huge arnou:nt. He appeared in 16 straight A !!-Star games, won Gold Gloves 199[ a.nd 1 992, was named AL MVP in 1 ~83 and 1991, and won the World Se- ries in 1983. He played through a number of injuries. In 1985 heseverelytw·isted his ankle and while at the hospital, Ripken was. given crutches and told to stay of his ankle for at least a week. He played the next nig:ht. The scariest moment may ha.ve been in 1993 when he twisted his knee during a fight with the Seattle Mariners. He was back the next day, taking infield practice andplay- ing through the pain. During the 1996 All-Star game he broke his nose during a photo shoot vvllen Roberto Hernande.?: slipped and hit Cal's nose trying to gain his balance. He had his nose set, and kepton playing. In the middle of last season he nearly had to sit out a game when back spasms crippled him, however he played through it and hit the game-win- ning home run. However, this had been one of his worst seasons. He was struggling at the plate and he simply decided that the time had come. When he told manager Ray Miller about his decision, he said it in his typical non-chalant voice. He was thinking about ending his streak on the last game of the season against the Red Sox, but after the Ori- oles were mathematically eliminated after Saturday's 5-4 loss to the Yan- kees, he and his wife decided the streak should end where it began, Bal- timore. He felt that the streak was taking away too much from the team. Cal was always thinking about the team. After it was evident that Ripken would not play, the Yankees stood on the top step of the dugout and ap- plauded him, then came the standing ovation from the crowd. · Ripken tipped his hat to the Yankees, as well Men's Soccer Loses 2, Goes to .so-o by Rory Stern Staff Writer After coming off a victorir>us weekend in the Union Invitational tournament, the Dutchmen vvere handed two very frustrating losses. The Dutchmen are now 2-2 overall, and 0-2 in the UCAA standin~s. This past Saturday, Union faced Hobart at home, on Garris field, los- ing 3-0. Junior Dan Danbusky started in goal for the Dutchmen, and faced a flurry of shots from the beginning. According to Coach Guinn, Union came out very slow and fell into a hole in the first three minutes. \We gaveupthefirst goal due to a lack of concentrati<Jn,\ Coach Guinn stated. Union played very well overall, but missed great scoring opportu- nities throughout the game. l'his theme seems to be consistent uld is currently being worked ()D. Coach Guinn feels that the team needs a goal scorer, someone to step up and execute. The team had its chances to do just this, going into the secondha.lf. Hobart was completely shutdawn for the first fifteen minutes, but as Union moved towards the g;oal, they were stopped. Hobart turned the ball around, and with a quick counterattack went up 2-0. As Union tried again to move into tile offensive zone, Hobart stole tbe momentum and put another g()al away, silencing Unions efforts. Earlier in the week, Union faced yet another tough opponent in Hamilton. Dan Danbusky aga.in started in goal for the Dutchmen and played extremely well. The ftnt half was a tight game, seeing both teams working hard, but coming up short. The second half, though, was a different story for Union. They gave up two goals, and couldn't fight back hard enough to come up with any goals. Union came out very strong and ready to play, but they couldn't match Hamilton's intensity and desire to win. The Dutchmen were once again slowed down by the lack of execution on offense. The team played very well together, but just could not capitalize on their scoring chances. Although Union came up short this past week, they remain positive and Coach Guinn remains very proud of his team. \My hope is that our young team will take a lesson from this match and learn from it. We are as talented or more so then the majority ofthe teams we play, but without the fire to win 50- 50 battles, and out run and work the opponent, we will be less successful then we could,\ Coach Guinn said of his team. Aaron Bnunste Union soccer .star battles for the ball in a tough Union loss. as the crowd, slowly returning to the dugout. He did many of the things players do when they have a day off, hanging out in the bullpen,. warming up players~ ami of course chatting with his best friend, Brady Anderson. Aft:erthe game, he said he did not feel dif- ferent, but did not like tlle feeling of not playing. He said he was nervous, fidgety, and anxious. Why wouldn't you after taking your first day off in 2,632 games? He was an Iron-Man. He is credited for gaining back fan support after the I 994 season- ending strike. Ifwas on Septem- ber 6, 1995, that he broke Lou Gehrig's record and baseball was r-ejuvenated. However, his time had come. He played again Monday night, beginning a new streak. With the focus during the off-season solely on the Orioles, and no more streak talk, the Ori .. oles are ready to be a strong con- tender in 1999 .. Rip ken's next vic- tim: Albert Belle is holding the longest active consecutive games played at327. That might be a better target then his record 2, 162 consecutive games played, anumberthatwilllikelystand for eternity. his Week In Union ·Athletics • • Thursday, September 24 Fielll Hockey vs. William@ 4:00 Saturday, September 26 Football vs Hobart 1:00 Men'sSoccervs. Vassar 2:30 • Women's Soccervs. Vassar 12:00 • Field Hockey@ St. Lawrence 2:00 • Volleyballvs. Clarkson/Hamilton 11:0.0 • Women's Tennis@ Hartwick 2:00 Monday, September 28 • Women's Soccer@ Utica 4:00 Tuesday, September 29 • Volleyball@ Middlebury 7:00 • Field Hockey@ Middlebury 4:00 Wednesday, September 30 • Women's Tennis vs. Skidmol'e 3:00

Sports Qhnu.orhlensill • September 24, 199'8 • Page 19 Women's Tennis Crushed Saints Saturday Women go on to a 7-2 Victory over St. Lawrence . Women's Rugby Shut out Hartwick, 12-0 by Abby Jefords Contributing Writer The Union College Women's Ten- nis team continued its winning streak this weekend by crushing St. Lawrence 7-2. The entireteamisex- cited to have already beaten three of their most difficult opponents and are looking forward to a successful season. Head Coach Bill Scanlon and assistant Coach Greg Roman agree that they have one ofthemost powerful and competitive.tea:ms ever. In doubles this weekend, fl1'stteam Lavvt<>n and Delucca brought in an 8-6 win, playing a tough duo from St. Lawrence. AgarandGrajny, also won their doubles match. 8-6, and Y oo and Rubin stomped their third doU;bles opponents 8•0. match on Saturday easily with won a deuce-filled match 6-1,6-3. scores()f6-2, 6-0. Yoo won hers Ca:ssi Lawton had a. long tough just as easily 6-1, 6-3. Playing singles match pulling through in fourth singles, Anette Grajny the first set with tight. score of 7-6 (7-5). In the second .set she came . back to win 6-2, bringing the team to a long awaited win against St. Lawrence. .by Stephen Flaherty Contributing Writer This years • On SatuJday, September 19th, women'stennis •· thewomen'srugbyclubhad their teams is un- first game. They played the · s t o p p a b I e , Hartwick women at Hartwick. The ·· working hard team played very well with some everyday on impressive moves by Marissa practice and Reisman, Ellen Taylor, Jen keeping their Birdstock, Becky Ambrosino, minds and bod- and Katie Crawford. Jen ies in shape. Comerford scored the first try The enthusiasm early in the .game and Rebecca is obvious both Walsh scored the second try on on and off the an incredible break away, for a court. Their final score of 12-0, in favor of <:.:·. next -match is Union. The team was very ex- . a g a i n s t . • cited and hopes this will be just · Hartwick on · the beginning of a strong sea- Sundaythe26lh. sort .. The next game will be next This years rookies Liz Agar and Susan Y oo continue to kill their op- ponents in their fifth and sixth singles positions, dQing nothing but good for the team. Agar .won her Hopefully, the Saturday, Homecoming week- ~~~=---~~-~~~~~----~~~~~~~~~~w~~g~~ ~-Th~will~a~~g~ will carry against the women's team from through the · SUNY Plattsburgh. Stop by and Sophomore Sharon Rosemarkprepa1·es to serve against her opponentonSaturday. ~~~~~~~~---~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on. supportiliewomen's~am ~ Primetime Sports Every Monday Night From· 7-9 PM, -89. 7, WRUC Hosted B,y David B·rooks & Will Clark Call And Chat About Your Favorite Team, From Union To The Pros ... All Calls Are Welcome Come to· the Rathskellar to watch . Monday Night Football Every Monday Night on our 27\ TVs. Food and Drink Specials flalf TimeGive A ways with Sports Trivia Que Chicken Wings __ ....... ..,...Medium Fountain Drink -.- ... for the price of a Small ouutain Drink ·. they play in front of the Nott. Men Hit the Rugby Pitch to Start the 1998 Season by Stephen Flaherty Contributing Writer The defending men's Upstate Champion UnionCollege rugby team took the pitch fo~ their first regular season game last Saturday. Union faced off against perennial rival Oneonta, a team that the ·~scru:mming•• Dutchmen hadn't beaten in five years during the regu- lar season. With a strong pack and an experienced line, Union looked to be the team to beat. As the Dutch- men took the field they looked strong under the hot mid-afternoon sun, and were led by captains Fred Gibney, Dam Rickson, and Steve Flaherty. · The opening kickoff was deep into the Union zon_c;: and went out of bounds quickly. The line out was stolen by Oneonta, and they quickly pushed it into the Union try zone for an early score. The team was rattled, but the momentum of the game al- ready swung t-o Oneonta as Union lost one of its captains and true lead- ers, Fred Gibney, due to a wound over the eye that needed hospital atten- tion. The flatfooted Dutchmen did pick up and were able to keep the ball in the Oneonta Rebel half of the field forthe nex:ttwenty-five minutes. Fullback Al Hebert filled the holes well and gained meters, as did the lightning fast Nemo Bolin who was near impossible to catch. Yet the Rebels scored once more before half time making the score 10-0. The Dutchmen looked to be in better shape physically than the Rebels yet the Oneonta team came out strong and sc<>red two tries even with the aggressive tackling of David Martin (filling in for Gibney at fly half), Matt Sheller, and Alan Gershkovik. Nick Campbell was playing strong until he was taken out ofthe game to recuperate af- ter being blindsided by a vicious Oneon.ta penalty. The Union team started to tire, and Oneonta pushed in one more try before the fmal whistle. After the dust settled the score w~ 31-0. The Union B side fared differ- ently ltowever, while half the team left to recuperate or go back and do homework, the other half stayedand filled the holes on the B side. Little did we know that the veterans would be taking les- sons from the phenomenal play of the \new guys.\ With the ag- gressive tackling and vocal lead- ership of second rows Tim Lane and Adam D., the team looked strong. Veterans Dan Rickson, Nemo Bolin, Steve Flaherty, and Bill Servant tried to keep the fo- cus on the positive and were very impressed with the play ofMahir Aydin, the speedy and vicious Will Johnson and Joe Me Quade who split time as serum half with Will. Alan Hebert ran forty meters up fielc! and the thirty meters across field to score the only try of the day. Union celebrated as they were able to fmd some good in the day. Adam D. almost scored later in the game with a blocked drop kick and then a near touch clown in the try zone. All ·in all, the future still looks bright. -



~ -· ··•··· i . . . t ~ < • :, '' . ·, >~ ' • ; \ ...... -..<, t . .J .-: :, '

