\'··-· .._ ''The great~st masterpiece in literature is only a dictionary out of order. \ .. Jean Cocteau ~ .. ~~ Volum~ CXXVIL Numher VIII The Student Ne1t 'SjHfj)(!f' o[ Union Co!lcr:I,e Sii1ce 1877 , . . · NoYcmbcr 5, 1' 998 ' . (_ . News: Will There Be a Calendar Change? Page3 Op/Ed: Ignorant Messages Breed Hatred Features: Return of .... ,.:'Rid!ng th~. · · Pine\ Page 10 Hockey Loses Second Straight Page 23 Union Supports Breast Cancer Research byCourtoeyHayden Staff Writer Dough the statisties plainly de- , pict i1S seriousness, breast cancer · is often a peripheral concern -of · yollllg men and women. Through her own experience with the disease, Shannon Pryor has managed to translate a per- . sonal traUina into an educational · experience for Union students. Tbrough the \Petals on a Rose\ project.sponsoredbythe Womyn's Uni()n and the Pre-Health society, students and faculty contributed upwards of $1,000 to the Sloan- . Kettering Cancer Center. During the week ofOctober 19th, students involved in the project . began selling construction paper petals to Greek and Theme houses to raise mon~yfor cancer rcCsearch. ''The <;pllege comm.unicy was so receptive and supportive,\ Shan- non sa!d. · · ·· . - · While pleased with the arnourit · of ~u.pport they received from the college community, Shannon was also astonished at the amount of influence the disease has had in the lives ofUnionstudents. Collectiilg the petals, they dis- covered that many student in- '~Petals. on a Rose,!} Campaign a Success proactively reaching out to students in hopes of gain- ing much needed support. During the first week of . October, she started orga- nizing the Petals on a Rose · · project. With the assis- . tance of the Womyn's · Union and Pre-Health so- . those whose lives are indi- . rectly affected by the dis- ease, such as men or younger women, take note of its seriousness. The pink petals zym!Jolize the fight against breast canc_er. Shannon commented, ..,._.....__......,....._;,_~--.;--.---_;,..;...........,~-----:--.;....--''It's tough because you have to scribed them with dedications in mem<»)' of those they know Vlho -havejdied ofr become lliilgr~ostxl with breast cancer. These p()sters were put on display in the college center last week. Sadl~, Shannon's own mother, as well as that of her_..best friend~ passed away from breast cancer. Despite her personal grief, Shan- non remained optimistic. ~'Mohadamas Ghandi once said, '¥ou must be the challge you want to see in the world;'\ she said, re 7 ~f'l~cfing on the words which in- spired her several years ago. R.aiher than passively witness- ing the suffering of those around her, Shannon decided to act. Feel- ing a sense of obligation to advise men and women about the preven- tion of the disease, she began .-ealize t,hat even though the chance of you yourself developing the dis- ease is .rare, it could very easily af- fect you mother~ sister, girlfriend, etc.\ Despite this potential barrier in support, Shannon said that both men and women were equally sup- portive of the project, Greek houses being some of the largest Continued on page 4 Will U Be Seeing Stars Athletic Participation by ShaunP. Montana Staff Writer . . The F. W. Olin Center has been one of1h.cemost talked about things this Fall Tenn, and has been in use now form ore than six weeks. How~ ever, the building has been .miss- ing one very key component: the twenty-inch remote-controlled tele- scope for the observatory portion of the building. Until recently, that is. 'The telescope, according to Physics Profess<>r Jonathan Matt, . is here but not yet functional. \Hopefully it. will be ready to be used by later this wee)<.\ Why is the telescope so late? Marr explains, \It's like missing one traffic light on a long .road. You then miss the next five lights. So you end up being ten minutes late instead of one.\ The telescope company actually makes the mounting for the telescope. The actual optics, the mirrors, are con- tracted out to a different company. The mirror company ended up sending the mirrors to the coating company late. By the time they actually arrived at the coating com- pany, the coating company people were on vacation. Once the coat- ing company finished their portion ·of the job, it was found that an- other piece was broken and had to b~ replaced: \It was just one thing going wrong after another,\ Marr said. But now, finally, the te lesc()pe is here and ready for use. For Winter Tenn, the Physics Departme11thas a Physics 20 class scheduled to make use of the telescope. Phys- ics 20 covers astrophysics, geo- metric and physical optics, and thermodynamics. Also, there are two seniors who will be using the telescope. \One is doing an inde- pendent study and the other will be using the telestope for his se- nior thesis,\ Marr. said. Signshave also been hung on bulletin boards all over campus advertising Pbys- ics 51 as an \opportunity to use Union's new twenty-inch tele- scope.\ The telescope willalso be used bytbelocal community. Mut said that there will be open houses for people to see and use the tele• scope. These are planned for about once a month. Local area elementary an <I bigh schools will also have the Ol>por- tunity to send students to the cam- pus \to look at the telesc<Jpe and learn about it.\ Giving Back to the Community by Jessica Zuehlke Staff Writer Community service on the Union College campus is some- thing in which many students par- ticipate. Both fraternities and so- rorities, as well as tlierne houses on campus, regularly reach out to Scbenectady in order to offer their support, knowledge and friend- ship. Now, with the formal require- ment of all Varsity athletic teams t<J partake in a community service ~ project, Unionjocks will be help- ing out the Capitol Region. The Athletic department is a very influential part of the cam- plls. Sports teams are a vital com- ponentto college life and involve a large number of .students at Union, whether they participate in the sport or simply support it. There are a number of opportu · nities for students to embrace the athletic world at S(;hool through intramural, club,junior varsity and varsity teams. Teams learn how to work to- gether at practices; tlley know that the necessities of success incor- porate both effort and time, and they understand how to grow as individuals. All of these qualities are ob- tained while maintaining stress through physical exertion and by building competitive skills during a game. Team players know how to communicate on the field and now, through community service, they can work with each other off the field. This innovative integration is not entirely new to Union athletes. Both basketball teams participated in service events in previous years. The men's team raised money for cancer research while the women held a youth basketball clinic. Other teams have supported or- ganizations such as the Schenectady City Mission, help- .ing to serve food to the homeless. Richard Sakata. the director of Athletics, has \strongly sug- gested\ that all teams should take heed from these previous service participants. He \fully .expects everyone to have completed the project of their choice by the end of the academic Continued on page 3

' . \The greatest masterpiece in literature is only a dictionary out of order. \ - Jean Cocteau News: Will There Be a Calendar Change? Page3 Op/Ed: Ignorant Messages Breed Hatred Features: Return of ''\Rid~ng the Pine\ Page 10 Hockey Loses Second Straight Page23 Union Supports Breast Cancer Research by Courtney Hayden Staff Wriier Though the statistics plainly de- • pict its seriousness, bt:east cancer • ·• · is often a peripheral concern of young men and women. ,.f' Through her own experience with the disease, Shannon Pryo·r has managed to translate a per- scnal trauma into an educational • experience for Union students. Through the \Petals on a Rose\ project sponsored by the Womyn 's Union and the Pre-Health society, students and faculty contributed upwards of $1,000 to the Sloan- , · Kettering Cancer Center. During the week of October 19th, students involved in the project began selling construction paper petals to Greek and Theme houses to raise money for cancer research. \The college community was so receptive and supportive,\ Shan- non said. While pleased with the amount of support they received from the ; . college community, Shannon was ' · also astonished at the amount of innuence the disease has had in .• , the lives of Union students. Collecting the petals, they dis- covered that many student in- \Petals on a Rose\ Campaign a Success proactively reaching out to students in hopes of gain- ing much needed support. During the first week of · October, she started orga- nizing the Petals on a Rose . project. With the assis- . tance of the Womyn 's • Union and Pre-Health so- ciety, the activity took less than a month to coordinate. While the logistics were fairly straight forward, Shannon's largest task was motivating the other orga- nizations. Understandably, it was · sometimes difficult to make . those whose lives are indi- rectly affected by the dis- 1 ease, such as men or P • D'A 111. •• 1 !Di.cJ younger women, take note au.. no1bale T • . of Its senousness. The pink petals symbolize the fight against breast ca11cer. Shannon commented, ______ _,;;. __ ~ ____ ....;,.._.;:_ _______ _.,It's tough because you have to scribed them with dedications in memory of those they know who have died oft become diagnosed with breast cancer. These posters were put on display in the coJiege center last week. Sadly, Shannon's own mother, as well as that of her~best friend, passed away from breast cancer. Despite her personal grief, Shan- non remained optimistic. \Mohadamas Ghandi ()nee said, 'You must be the change you VI ant to see in the world,\' she said, re- flecting on the words which in- spired her several years ago. Rather than passively \Witness- ing the suffering of those ett:ound her, Shannon decided to act. Feel- ing a sense of obligation t<> advise men and women about the pRven- tion of the disease, she ilegan realize that even though the chance of you yourself developing the dis- ease is rare, it could very easily af- fect you mother, sister, girlfriend, etc.\ Despite this potential barrier in support, Shannon said that both men and women were equally sup- portive of the project, Greek houses being some of the largest Continued on page 4 Will U Be Seeing Stars Athletic Participation by Shaun P. Montana Staff Writer The F. W. Olin Center has been one of the most talked about things this Fall Term, and has been in use now for more than six weeks. How~ ever, the building has been miss- ing one very key component: the tVIenty-inch remote-controlled tele- scope for the observatory portion of the building. Until recently, that is. The telescope, according to Physics Professor Jonathan Marr, is here but not yet functional. 'cHopefully it will be ready to be used by later this wee.k.'' Why is the telescope so late? Marr explains, \It's like missing one traffic light on a long road. You then miss the next five lights. So you end up being ten minutes late instead of one.\ The telescope company actually makes the mounting for the telescope. The actual optics, the mirrors, are con- tracted out to a different company. The mirror company ended up sending the mirrors to the coating company late. By the time they actually arrived at the coating com- pany, the coating company people were on vacation. Once the coat- ing company fmished their portion of the job, it was found that an- other piece was broken and had to be replaced. \It was just one thing going wrong after another,\ Marr said. But now, finally, the telescope is here and ready for use. For Winter Tenn, the Physics Department has a Physics 20 class scheduled to make use of the telescope. Phys- ics 20 covers astrophysics, geo- metric and physical optics, and thermodynamics. Also, there are two seniors who will be using the telescope. \One is doing an inde- pendent study and the other wiH be using the telestope for his se- niorthesis,\ Marr. said. Signs have also been hung on bulletin boards all over campus advertising Phys- ics 51 as an \opportunity to use Union's new twenty-inch tele- scope.\ The telescope will also be used by the local community. Marr said that there will be open houses for people to see and use the tele- scope. These are planned for about once a month. Local area elementary and high schools will also have the oppor- tunity to send students to the cam- pus \to look at the telescope and learn about it.\ Giving Back to the Community by Jessica Zuehlke Staff Writer Community service on the Union College campus is sotne- thing in which many stude11ts par- ticipate. Both frat em ities and S()- rorities, as well as theme h()uses on campus, regularly reaci1. ()Ut to Schenectady in order to e>ffer tlteir support, knowledge and friend- ship. Now, with the formal require- ment of all Varsity athletic teams to partake in a community service project, Unionjockswill behelp- ing out the Capitol Region. The Athletic department is a very influential part of the (;a.m- pus. Sports teams are a vita! com- ponent to college life and involve a large number of stu <len ts at Union, whether they participate in the sport or simply support it. There are a number of opportu- nities for students to embrace tlle athletic world at school tlrr<Jugh intramural, club, junior varsity and varsity teams. Teams learn how to W<Jrk to- gether at practices; they kn<lw that the necessities of success, incor- porate both effort and time, and they understand how to grow as individuals. All of these qualities are ob- tained while maintaining stress through physical exertion and by building competitive skills during a game. Team players know how to communicate on the field and now, through community service, they can work with each other off the field. This innovative integration is not entirely new to Union athletes. Both basketball teams participated in service events in previous years. The men's team raised money for cancer research while the women held a youth basketball clinic. Other teams have supported or- ganizations such as the Schenectady City Mission, help- ing to serve food to the homeless. Richard Sakala, the director of Athletics. has \strongly sug- gested\' that all teams should take heed from these previous service participants. He \fully expects everyone to have completed the project of their choice by the end of the academic Continued orr page 3

·Camp-..Js Life · ·Page 2 • November ·5, 1998· • Oinnwr~itnsh,; . . Security Incident Report MONDAY, OCTOBERl6,1998TIIR011Gll SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 1,1998 DATFifiME LOCATION MONDAY, OCTOBER26, 1998: 9:~0 AM Becker Circle 2:45 PM Alumni Gym Lot 6:05 PM Boathouse dock 7:15PM Union Avenue neargate TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 191)8: 11 :54 AM Fox 3n1 floor south 2:55 AM Raymond/Potter Lot 9:50 AM Humanities 1:25PM 4:51PM 9:24PM 9:59PM 10:57 PM S&E 3'd floor north South and Alexander La. Library Lane South College Yulman Theater WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1998: 12:00 AM ResidenceHall 3:32 PM Campus grounds 7:11PM Nott Memorial area THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29,1998: 11:15 \M Fox:House ll:55 PM South College FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1998: 8:50AM Library Lane area iNCIDENT PARKING VIOLATION: Unregisteredvehicleirnrnobilized. PARKINGVIOLATI()N:Unregisteredvehicle:i111111obilized. HARASSMENT: Crew coach reports verbal 'harassment oftewn. SPD notified. SEX OFFENSE: Student reported thata man was exposing himself. Suspect left scene. Officers thoroughly checked area suspect not ocated. VANDALISM: Walllightdamaged. PARKING ViOLATION: Unregisteredvehicleinunobilized. PROPERTY RECOVERED: Computer thought to have been Stolen. during the summer was located. THEFT: Money l!lld credit card stolen from faculty member's pocketbook. Office was not secured. VANI)A.LISM: Stop sign at intersection damaged. VANDALISM/THEFT: Window on student's parked car bro ken. Car entered and money stolen. TRESPASS: Local food vendor distributing advertisements in residencehuilding. SAFETY HAZARD: Fire exit blocked. HARASSMENT: Unwanted telephone call SECURITY HAZARD: Laundry vendor lost exterior only en try keys to residence halls. SAFETY HAZARD: Attendees at concert created a safety haz ard by illegally parking cars. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Tampering with room fire extinguisher. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Unauthorized guest loitering in resi dence hall. Had been given entry by resident. Suspect left area. SUSP1ClOUS PERSON: Report of person riding bike throv.illg .Announcements Election Results Are In: l Freshman Class: President: ~Timothy Crowell · Vice President.• Gina Markowski ' ' ' ' ' Secretary/Treasurer: Brady Montas Junior Class: ~ . ' - - - Secretaryll'reasurer: Michael Winn Thank you to all who ran for office. and for all students who voted. Your support is appreciated. · NCUR99 Thirteenth National Conference On Undergraduate Research April 8 ~ 10, 1999 -University of Rochester, Rochester, NewYork Registration and abstract submission forms available in the Associate Dean's Office Science and Engineering, S-1 00 All abstracts and registrations are due no later than NOVEMBER 11, 1998TOTHEASSOCIATEDEANS OFFICE-- SlOO All perfotmers,artists, writers, and researchers are encour- aged to apply and sttbmit abstracts. WORKING TOGETHER FORA SAFE CAMPUS: l) Please not~ that recently there have. beem incidents of persons entering residence buildings and.Jor student rooms withoutpermission. PLEASE HELP US TO HELP YOU! DO NOT PROP ENTRY DOORS; DO NOT ADMIT UNKNOWN PER- SONS INTO RESIDENCE HALLS;. LOC)( YOURROOMDOORANYTIME THAT YOUR ROOM IS VACANT OR WHEN YOU RETIRE FOR THE NIGHT. eggs. Area thoroughly checked suspect not located. No dam l) age evident. Please call6911 anytime you observe anything un- usual or anyone who d()es not belong in a building. If you observe a crime in progress, an active fire or have a medical emergency call ~11. 12:27 PM 11:31 PM Alumni Gym l()t West College TRESPASS: Campaign worker placing political ads on vehicles. Advised off campus. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Reportofmarijuanaodor. Report and source confirmed. SATURDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1998: I : 39 AM Olin Building 3:56AM Fox north 10:49 AM Reamer Center 5:15PM 6:30PM 7:10PM 7:15PM 11:01 PM 11:34 PM Nott at Lenox Achilles Rink Becker Circle Fox House Raymond/Potter area WadeLupe SUNDAY, NOVEMBER I, 1998: 3:34 AM Raymond/Potter lot 6:01AM 7:39AM 8:21AM 11:47 PM AD Phi Webster 1 ' 1 floor Residence Bailey Field Y ANDALISM: 24 plants pulled out of new fl()wer beds. VANDALISM: Glass in entry door shattered. THEFT: Staff member reports bike stolen. Was left unse cured in entry hallway. MISCIIIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Two juveniles threw eggsat cam pus safety vehicle. Suspects apprehended. Turned over to SPD. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Visitor creating a disturbance. Advised off campus. Y ANDALISM: Paint on student's car scratched~ HARASSMENT: Profane graffito written on student'.s room • door. D!SORDEP..L Y CONDUCT: Group of students poundingon escort van creating hazard. Subjects identified~ NOISE COMPLAINT: Report of noise ... area checked ... all quiet. 3) 4) Faculty and staff members please do NOT leave pocketbooks, purses unattended. LOCK personal property and valuables in a desk or file cabinet. If you leave your office vacant ••• LOCK the office door. The campus escort sernce is available. Please use it for your safety. We also ask the cooperation of those who are in groups to avoid using the esc:o rt service as a taxi service. The escort is intentled ·solely for the protection of those who have to wall{ alone. Improper use ofthe escort creates a probl em for those who need to rely on the service. Thank you for your uotlerstanding and coopera tion. TRESPASS: Visitorloitering Qn campus. Had been previously advised off campus. Suspect arrested. SPD notified. TRESPASS': Resident reports an unauthorized visitor was found in the house. Suspect located ()n Huntley Lane. Arrested for 1------------------------ trespass. SPD notified. VANDALISM: Courtesy telephone in hall damaged. TRESPASS: Unknown person entered student's unlocked room and tou~hed the student while she was sleeping on couch. Suspect fled when student awakened. Interviewed staffmern ber who was in the building. Claimed entry door was propped and subject was observed running from the building. VANDALISM: Goal post twisted. Boys and Girls Club of Schenectady has available part-time positions. Work 9-15 hours a week, volunteer positions as well as paid. Call Adam Paul Smolak x6704. c c to1 teJ in · vi dr th tb m hi CE • a ac ta Ol pt t~ si u tt It ft s h n t) s1 a a n \1 n e v s

Campus News , .- _ .. cBieDd'iff .. Ch3rige?·. outteach Ptogradi Role In USI Gretchel7yson on ·union-Schenectady Initiative Goals -~· - .,_ <\\• ... M\( • ;c-, • .,, ~ i ~· •• _. \'\ ·-· a proposal would be brought out ..... _____ ...__..,........,..... __ e~,U'lythisFall,l.;erm:· HQwever,.d,ue .. to an ah:nost complet~ chang(dn . the membership of the AAC-:stu- : · bySbaumP.Montana StaB Writer by Stephaoie\SI~ootkin . Editor-in:Cirief Most of us have gr<>-Wrt' acetJs- ·dents>who.graduated alld' profes-· \\------- ...... ----- tamed togoing tosc}loo.t.in .. ~ep-, sor$ on ~~l>~ati~al, aU qf Vt;hom . Last Tuesday, October27, Unim temberandending.theschoolyeitr needed to be replacec:J,:-:fhe new. College announ~ed the Union;- in June. The trimester system. .ol:l- mentbe~ 'hav' wanted;~~ t9·re- : · Schenectady Initiative (USI) tore- viouS'ly has benefits as· well as view the whole issue. And of . vitalize the neighborhood in tile drawbacks .. Yet, it must be saidtbat course the AAC has had other ·•. areaofcampusdefmedby Sewa,rcl the advantages seem to outwiegh business t{) l)ea:l \yith be.$\.des,.tbis, : • Place:- Union Street, and Nott the disadvantages. However, some so no report basyetbeen resolved~ ! Street. The college is currently members of the C<ii.1Ullunity are At their last meetin& the AAC, ' · working directlywiththeOutreach. hinting toward a chang~. in d.iscu~sion with.Dean.CoPt.qe- · office to ensure that the interests Sometime within the next two cided to create a tact sheet on the .. ofthe college aS well~s the neigh ... weeks;tlteAcademicAffairsCoun- issues involved. This sheet will · borhoodaremet · cil (AAC) hopes to· h~ve a fact ·detail all the pros apd cons in- . GretchelHathawayTyson, Diiec- sheet availableto the campus con- volved in Changing the calendar · torofAfflfJllativeAction and Colll- ceniing a potential; change in the ·from trimester to semester. \It re- . • m11nity Outreach is playing a ma- calendar from a trimester system to ally does involve a lot of things jorrole in.making dear connections ·a semester system. This issue is you wouldn't think about,\ Chris- · between this particular community actually not new, but has been tinaSoruni,DeanofArtsandSci-. nearcampusandUnionitself. In tallced about since the Committee ences said, ·~unless- you sat down · the area where Union wishes to onUnionEducation(CUE)firstpro- and started going over all the purc~~~~th.eproperty, someoftbe posed it in 1983. Urllonhad,atthat things that would be affected by . tenants who are not Gwners will time, been on a 1rimester system such·a change.\ . have to vacate their current living since the 1960's; previ.ous to that~ The fact sheet will take every- •. quarters. UnioQ was on a semester calendar. thing into account, from.J;IlQney and However, the pointofUSI, which The AAC has been working on other pragmatic issues to more · President Roger Hull emphasized this issue for the past two years. pedagQgical issues. It will cover lastweek, wasthataUeffectedfarni- In January 1995,. chaired by Pro- all aspects ofchartgingto a semes- . lies would be given proper living fessors Janet Anderson, and tercalendaraswellasalloftherea- accommodations otherwise. A.c- Sharon Gmelch, a committee req sons for staying on a trimester cal- cording to Tyson, since the begill- leased a report witltout a re.com- endar. ningofthe USI, whichbegan back mendation to the Cjampus on this Professor Linda Stanhope, Chair in September, the groups of people type of change. The committee was of the AAC, said, \We hope to · insideandoutsidethe eollege have startedwhenDeanLindaCoolfrrst have the fact sheet out sometime beenproactiveandattentivetoany arrived on campas and was handed. . next week-we, hop~}?ut if nQt problems or questions that may a ·petition signed by about fifty next week thendefmitely the week , come up in the future. · members of the faculty. They after. Everyone will have itbefore \We put benefits into place be- wanted to review a p<Jtential' se- ·the end\ofthetertn.\ Suicethe fact cause we think the property is mester calendai\ foiUnioo. How~. · sheet is :not a propos.al()t recom- , pretty good ... Schenectady used evet;·~ti1e Jfeportdidn:'tseemJik:e it : .mendatio.n,justobjective.infonna- to be a b_ooming city ~n4 ~m:_goal would carry any signifiqant con;. · tion 1 Ahere _will probably;· be much • is to take this section and bri:ngi.11 sensus. . ·~· further djscussion s;n the issue . peoplewhowilltakeanactive,role~,~ The AAC last :yearh.ad a8sumed · durillg Wmier Tei:in. \ Tyson said. ~ : \! • • _: l - ' !- f' ' • . Tyson is also iJ:t charge <>f orga-. nizing an active neighborhood group that will consist <>f people wh.Q ,wiU_be living. in the various houses. The board wili be a key factor in making the community work sufficiently, Tyson adds. They will also be in charge of mak-- ing a coalesced effort to making liv- ing in close proximity to a college campus their ·benefit. \By upgrad- ing the neighborhood,\ Tyson said~ \we will have a working rela- tionship with the commllllity and people will feel more comfortable coming to campus to visit.\ Tyson's job is also to oversee ~e efforts made to incolJlorate the families living in the Mea in an owned h.ome and clar.ify with them the meaning and goal of the project. \We will do our best to make transitions for them [those families Who have to va.cate] as easy as possible. Ifand\Vhen they move they will be treated with re- spect.\ In the case that families own houses in the designated area, Tyson says they must bring their homes up to par with tile .future association. In doing so, they will be asked to take an active role and have a lot of influence over newer members because they have lived in the neighborhood. the longest. Although many of the homes are run down, Union plans to revital- ize them and hopes to sell many of them to eager communityrnembers or Union faculty and staff. \People have called already, wa.nting to move. into the area w_ith the ben- efits Union has offered. tbus far,\ Tyson said. Last week, HuH announced as part of the USI plan that the col- lege will make avaihible funds up to $1 million a year to cover the full cost to ~hilcb'en of qualified future homeowners. For the renters~ the Outreach program is working with Munici- pal Housing Authorities, directed by Sharon Jordan, and the Pruden- tial Realtors, directed by Richard Ferro, to fmd housing suitable for those families. Tyson will make sure that safety codes are mandated in the new liv- ing spaces as well as mandates that will in order children to have. their own rooms. The elderly and handi- capped will also be taken care of. \I will be meeting with every single family and discussing with them the logistics of the move and the many benefits they will receive,\ Tyson said. The Outreach pr<>gram has put a lot of thought and effort into mak- ing sure people who move will be cared for in all respects. Tyson is even making efforts not to pull chil- dren out oftheirrespective school systems. . Once they move, the neighbor- hood association will be forced to pull close together and host a meet- ing immediately for all owners. However, dates have yet to be fi- nalized. Tyson is working to help the community grow and flourish. \Union will be there to help em- power the neighborhood ... and th~,pr~~~11;t, C?l!lmunity, is exc~t7d about building itselfb8:ck up.\ Hull commented last week,\ ... These efforts will result in .a win- win for Union and Schenectady.\ Union Athletes Give Back to the Community year.\. Pteviously.teams havepar:- ticipated in cornnp~nity servic.e . events that have been organized by the terun itself. Now, there is a formal program of c'ommunity ser- vice. This allows ea.cll team to observe what the other teams are doing as to not be repetitive. It also puts some pressure on teams that have not previously piuticipated in the community to begin doing so. In addition, knowing the community service schedule of each team will allow other teams to participate if they choose to do so. Sakala, as well as many athletes are excited and think the program is a great way to give back to the community. Junior Kerry Librandi, captain of the women's SWimming and Div- ing team, explained how both the men's and women's team partici- pated ina haunted house the week- ~nd of October 16. Shontel Meac;b.am of Wells House, organi2ed the event be- cause Wells H()use had previously participated in the haunted house. While at the event some stu- dents dressed in black and jumped out, in an attempt to scare patrons. Others sold food at the concession stand and sold tickets at the door. In addition, some students helped the youth through a hay maze. Librandi stated, \It was a great way for us to, unite as a ' tea.m and Schenectady~ E~eryone enjoyed participating in the haunted house. I hope that we can do something like this every term cause it reminds us that helping others is fun and easy. Everyone benefits from it.\ Jeff Hoerle, a senior captain, said, \This was a very rewarding experi- ence. When I was talking to some of the Schenectady residents who organized the event, they expressed such grati- tude.\ ... continuedfrom page I Paul D' ADnibale/TC Hoerle continued by saying, 1 'They were ut- terly impressed with Union students and hope that we can develop con- The Cross Country Team enjoys spencli1tg an afternoon with C.O.C.O.A~ House tinuing a relationship between the community and the College.\ Sophomore Cally Woodard, a memberoftheWomen 's Varsity Ice Hockey and Lacrosse teams feels it is a good way to bring specta- tors to Union games. Showing support to the commu- nity in sports jackets and jerseys evokes enthusiasm among youth and interested individuals, whiclt encourages interest in the games. Sophomore Lacr<>sse player Rebecca Walsh pointed out that Children of Community Open to since sports teams are already an Achievement. It is an after-school organized group of people, ffi()1i- program for Schenectady youth vation among participants aild that is located at the Grace Temple cooperational skills are alrea<ly Church of God and Christ. The present. children's ages range fiom four to \Teams have the ability to stir fourteen. llp excitement and the motivati~n Many Union College students to go through with it.\ already participate in this program Charlie Casey, who is the Cross and thus, the Cross C()untry team Country coach, involved his team decided to invite the twelve chil- in a project last Friday, October 3() dren to campus for the afternoon. with C.O.C.O.A. H()USe. They held relay races and a scav- C.O.C.O.A. House stands f()r enger hunt. · Casey claimed, \It was a great opportunity for the students of C.O.C.O.A. House to see a col- lege campus. In addition, the team enjoyed having the stu- dents. It is my hope that more people will want to be involved in community service now that they have had a taste of it.\ Service projects to be com- pleted in the near future by the athletic teams include. clinics in tennis, soccer, ice hockey, foot- ball, volleyball, baseball and bas- ketball. Big Brothers/Big Sisters, Co- coa House, YWCA and the Elfun Society are other examples of or- ganizations receiving help from Union. Community service is a wonderfui way to integrate Union College students with those who need their help. Schenectday residents greatly appreciate the efforts of Union Colelge students. By going out into the community the students show their desire to help those who are less fortunate and their generosity. The Schenectady residents are obviously grateful for the positive impact the the students make. Selt instills a posi- tive attitude about the campus community as well as brightens the horizons to those in need. With the instillation of this new program, everyone benefits.

Page 4 • November 5, 1998 • <!Iom:nrme:nsis Campus News Yahoo! Networking at the Nott by Gina Campanella Staff Writer What do you wan:t to do with your life? Many people come to col~ lege With a clear notion of where their life will lead. Theyknowwhat courses to take and how ta achieve the goals that they have set for themselves. · Most of us are not like that, though. Uncertainty engulfs our time at college and causes the ma- jority of stress and confusion that we experience during our college years. Luckily, those who are unsure of their direction in life should not worry too much because there is hope. On Tuesday October27, 1998 the Career Development Center hosted a networking event, Networking at the Nott. The event featured Jim Spanfeller, a Union College gradu- ate of 1979. When Spanfeller graduated he had no idea what to do with his life. Little did he know that he would be working with com- puters and the internet, ,yhich was a concept that had not even been thought of at this point. The function began at ?PM with a brief introduction explaining the duality of the event. First, Spanfeller spoke about his career development since he graduated from Union and how he used networking to his advantage. After this portion of the program, the .students were given a chance to break down into smaller more ca- sual groups with Spanfeller, his as- sociate Peter Handy and several other alumni who attended. On the posters advertisillg this event, Spanfeller was introduced as the publisher of YAHOO! Internet Life, however he began his speech by telling how he used to write for small alternative publica- tions. His flrstbigbreakwas ajobwith Newsweek. He worked on publish- ing for Newsweek on Campus, an informative paper designedf<>r col- lege students. The distribution was to 56carn- puses nationwide, and be soon used his connections to move on to a four-year publishing career with Playboy. It was during this time that the w.eb was just getting started as a · . Cory Jin Span[eller enlightened the Union community with his stories. commercia\ venture. The government first developed the ·nnternet for military p.urposes; how~v:e:t the public soon took it over for their personal use, Many magazines were interested in go- ing online due to the positive ef- fect tb.at the Internet has on sales. Spanfeller referredtQ the Internet as \the best thing to happen to the economy since the invention of the steam engine.\ '[n·addition, he believes that we have only scratched the surface of the Internet's capabilities. Spanfeller's ~peech was followed by il brief addition by Peter Handy, and fmally a question and' answer pel!~od for both speakers. The Career Development Cen• ter hop(ls to make Networking at the N<>tt an annual event in order to encourage_ thought about intern- ships and careers. This c;:vent stressed that studeats must use all of their opportunities while in school irt order to gain as- set~ .and networks for the future. Thts seellied an ironic yet crucial message in the face .ofthe number ofatt~ndees. Cross Talk Critique on ''Dialogues'' Kirk Exhib~tc.Opens by Mary Felton Staff Writa:. Lastspring agroup ofUnionstu- dents decided to attack the prob- lem of race relations here at the college. Twenty-one student-run organizations, dozens of faculty and staffand:the Colleg.e•s athletic teams hosted more than 30 events and activities. The talks· en'~.ouraged an ex- change of idea~nmd toncems re- garding diversity on campus. They allowed students and faculty alike to .express the changes. and im- provements they wouldtiketo see and in what direction they think Union-should head in order to main- tain a more diverse campus. On Wednesday, October 28 at 7:30PM, a Cross- Talk was held in CheFs run by Peer Facilitators as a follow-up t.o the Di!l1ogues on Race talks held last spring. There was a panel of four people, two students, Johanna Enger, and Ibriham Addamu, ·and two faculty members, Tom Alexander, the fac- ulty advisor to MAG, Union's Multicultural Awareness Group, and Byron Nichols, a professor in the Political Science department. Nicole Cione, a co-llead of Peer Facilitators, started the hour-long \discussion'' by posin.E the ques- tion, \Do you think anything has changed?\ Last spring the \Dialogues on Race\ cross-talks were held in or- der to try and bring a greater awareness about race relations on Un.ion's campus to the student body. The intent was to get people to listen and think about their ac- tions, and at least realize ihatthere is a need for change. Professor Nichols s.eemed to believe that, in general, people's behaviors and attitudes have not changed since the \Dialogues on Race'; took place last spring. He thinks that Un.i<>n should Look to see what kind of programs can bring about that change. Ibrihain Addamu remarlcedthat the reasons the dialoglles took place to begin with still e~ist. He pointed out the division in the din- ing hall between black and white students as an example of people at Uniorrbeing uncomfortable with race relations. In terms of cliange, Alexander mentioned how he is lookillg for- . ward to MAG'srole in dealing with this ongoing issue, and views itas an \ ... excellent opportunity t<l get the baUrolling.'' The issue of apathy also arose· at this cross-talk and how Union students just do not care about race relations bere on campus. Johanna Enger, a junior, pointed out that the people who do, in fact, voluntarily come to the <:ross-talks are not the on.es that need to be reached out to. Martha Huggins stepped up to the open-mic and said tbat; \ ... stu- dents ·assume that .because.tlley are liberal in one .area that they have con.quered all areas and they are {then] embarrassed to talk about race.\ She also said that tbereisan as,. sumption made by the majority that the minority does not want to mix with other students, which, in most cases, is false. There was further mention of the administration taking a stand on the issue of race at Union, and pos- sibly forming a system to address it. The question of how to inte- grate these types of issues into the Freshmen curriculum also arose. A Peer Facilitator mentioned Freshmen Preceptorial classes as an opportunity to introduce these issues. Some students argued the fact that there is often no variety of ethnicity in those classes. However, many students argued the other aspect of that argument by saying that all people do not bySarah L. Harsb think the same way and that stu.. . s, · dents are in class to learn about · _,..._._ ___ 't .... ajj ..... FJ_Wl ..... r .... it_e_r __ _ acasJ.emic issues and not about Beginning Tuesday, November race telations. 3n1; Union College will.play host tQ ' spanned and fed during his youth on the coast ofComwall and, more recenily, with canoe trips through the. Adirondacks. The art fonns K.irk creates.reflect Nicholstalked abo11t how there an exhibition of the work of a naliticaltheme through a combi- needs to be more cotuses offered · Jonathan Kirk .. Beginning at 1:30 nation of organic fonns and indus- which focus on self•discovery in the artist .will conduct a walk- triatfabtication; The sculpturesare order to prompt discassion of the . thro\I~ of.his:~i~tionin.the Art seemingly part machine and part issue of race at Union.. · :·Atrium;. the oijcialopenmg:willbe nautilus. The creations tend to f()- He also commented thatit would ·. the same evening fi'o1n 4-6 PM. cus on formal integrity of his vi- be helpful if whites and blacks··. TheexbibitiQ~dispJaysKi{k'scre- sions. Kirk uses stee1~ wood, ti- couldcompile a list of what needs :. ation ptt)(~,,ss thJ!ouglt-·m:odels, becgiass, and, .at times, cardboard to be '~talked\ about and any .pos•· · • photographs and fuU~scale.indoor mediums. The actual creation pro- sible solutions, and .pcssibly post · .. and outdooil.work; . . . . .. , ce$& .is an arduous .process as ~e that list in the paper. Jonathan Kirk ·was born and B.$st assembles,disassembles and · Another suggestion. made ·by • raised in England~ Smce·l986-~ 'lie . r.¢contbmes the elements to creat-e Addamu was thatperllaps the Ath· has been w.:orking m the··United- · :s~lii1pturethatttu1y reflects theun- letic community at Union could ·States· after· completing his dettakingofits~reation. serve as an example e>frace rela~ · Master'-s degree at Syracuse Uni- :the exhi·bition will .run from tions working cooperatively to· versity. Presently, Kirk is the Stu- gether. dio ManagerofSculpture Space in He also mentioned the need for_;· Utica, New York. Kirk's creations students of color 1o develop a · reflect his concentrated interest in \thick skin\ in order t<J help others . · nautical forms. This interest has. learn how to approacll this. issue. T\L.esday, November 3•d through\ Wednesday, December 2nd. Gallery · bo\lrs are 9-5 Monday through Fri- day, and 1:30,.4:30 Saturday and Sunday. After an hollr of debate, and B C A , some heated Cofilrnents thrOwn··· ·reast . ancer ~wareness back and forth, the cross-talk·con- • eluded. ... cuntinued from page 1 Enger fmished byacknowledg• ing that there is a lotof work to be . done at Union, specifically in a comm.unity where pe<)'ple do no~ seem to care and areVlill.ingtomake racial jokes and comments .. Huggins believed Union can cre- ate an atmosphere that is some- • what uncomfortable for people who have racist views and closed minds. contributors. Though the \Petals on a Rose'~ project was aimed at raisin.g money for breast cancer research, Shannon' smain goai was to create mass awareness of the <lisease on campus. Today, every three minutes a woman is diagnosed with breast cancer- one out of eight of which willdie. · Alexan.der mentioned that stu- Early detection plays a vitalrole dents should sit in on an Alias . in prevention. By educating meeting to hear the different per- · woman about breast cancer when spectives held by students of color they are young, it is hoped that on this campus. they will adopt the habit of per- Addamu made arematk earlier in. fanning selfbreast exams and con- the cross-talk thatseemed to cap- tinue being informed on the sub- tore what is trying to be accotn.- ject. plished here at Union: \ ... [you] Carrying these habits into their cannot change the way p.eople later years, when the threat of de- think, but you can maRe them ;think veloping the disease incteases, can about the way they think.\ . lead potentially life ~aving detec- ti(}n for those. who take these warn- ing seriously. rhough breast cancer has been a major cause of death ef women for several decades, it has only re- cently received the attention it merits from the media. 1 '1t~S a Shame that CelebritieS have had to die before breast can• cer bas become recognized,\ Sh- anilon said critically. For the future, Shannon effores are.aimed at projects which will try to keep awareness of breast can .. cer very high. She really hopes to briltg speakers on the .subject to olir ·own campus next year, or pos- sibly <even during the upcoming Winter Term, because she realizes that awareness can hopefully pre- vent the tragedy and pain that she bas had to endure over the past few years.

Campus News arlllt£ntmensis • N<lvember 5, 1998 •_ Page 5 Tbe Future of the Arts at a ~iberal Arts College by Brooke Barylick _ News Editor demic mainstream of the colle.ge with ful1·credit courses such as \The Dance Experience\ and \''Dance in America.\ Tbe stude11t response t()·these classes has 'been incredibly positive. Both classes filled each time they have been of- feted. ln. addition, with the assis- tance of this grant, the Performing Arts department has pursued op- tions to implement and om~r a dance min()r. \\!'J\!'!~o:------... last three years. We believe dance to be an es- r . The arts. Some people utilize them as a means of expression that demonstrates the talent they pos .. sess. Others simply tum to the arts as an outlet from their everyday lives. In both cases,. the arts are important .to the individuals in- volved. sential art form. We are convinced that there are compelling reasons for a -w.rz-~-:;•;-&~J\~~1Liberal Arts College to ~::==~~::'!~;~ ::,:;~'~\\\\\'\\\~ii support this form of artis- At Union College one can major in Visual Arts, Theater Arts and Music. These majors allow those. who pursue them to express them- selves artistically with prints, pro-. ductions or concerts. However, one pertinent aspect of the arts has been- omitted~ dance. Union offers dance classes. But,. they cannot be one's major or even minor. They are only a. hobby. Why is it that at ahighlycompetitive lib- eralarts college there is not a strong dance program to complement the academically challenging options? Sadly, this past summer, Lothridge decided to with<kaw his support.. 1'his signifies that th-e pdsitionofVisiting Guest ArtistWiil only continue through the end ()f the 1998--t 999academic year. Rea.· sons surr()unding this decision are sparse. Unfortunately, unless tlte Administration compensates fcJr Lotheridg-e• s gift, the dance pro· gram:willlle reducedto afew self· funded technique classes, Paul D'Annibale/TC Students practice Ballet in one of the classes offered at Union. .. tic expression.\ Evidently, the outcome and destiny of the Arts program here at Union is unknown. However, Dean Linda Cool, who is Vice for Academic Affairs, Dean of Faculty and Chief Academic Of- ficer, appears to be opti- rn i s t i c Cool stated, \I want to fmd a way to keep this pro- gram going. As of right , the funding of this program is not built into the budget because there are lim-ited funds. But this is actually an opportune time for us to learn about Three years ago an alumnus, Charles Lothridge; Class of 1944, gave the Performing Arts depart- ment a generous gift to fund the faculty position of Union's frrst Visiting Guest Artist in Dance. Lothridge did this because ·of his strong interest in dance, especially class-ical ballet. In fact, Lot}leridge' s gift made the visit of Eduard Villella.possible. Villella, a Union alumnus and founder of Miami City Ballet, visited Union last year. He gave lectures, taught classes and held a workshop for the hockey team. 'fbis.,program was beneficial. to: many· in the Union Gcrll~ge community; espe.:.. cially.tlancers ... ; .r'd~ -.-:., • • ·. ··~ ,, The Administration b-as t.h.e power tc arrange the budget so. that it s11pports the growing dan(;e -program. However, tb.at willmea.:n ---------------------~------~--------------------- - Lotheridge's decision to The creation ofthis-half:.tifue po .. sition brought d.anc€rinto.the a'Ca_.. cuts to ()tiler programs. Currently, subtract the total amount offman- the Administration is workin~ (}n cial.aid packages they give. the budgetfor the 1999-:2000 aca\ The Administration is respon- demic sd1ool year. They consider sible for paying for many essential many tltillgs When trying t0 create aspects of the College's existence. a funciicnal budget. The salaries of the 180 full-time fac- The Co liege ideally wants 20()0 ulty, libt=ary books, computers, sec- students. 1'hey h()pe that 520 will retarial needs . and departmental enroll i11 the College each year: needs are some of their responsi- Obviously, some. students decicle bilities. For this reason, one can- that Urlion _is not the school for .. not simply apply the amount of them. Thus most class sizes reduce . people in a class and the amount to 50().. 'The Administration rntilti· . of money generated from ;tuition as plies thee· number-, of students by , the source of payment fotthe class the priceforfullituitit:m. Theytl!en ' because the tuition needs ta fund add 'iti,thei gifts~ froni aiiurin~· attd : oth~f aspects· of the' College as\ the ·ni:()dey-'iliey-'r~Ceiv'e freill the : well~ . . endowment:· 'Tilef then rieei:fto· : RilaryTann; the Chair'ofthe Per- ' .•..• ·.•: .,~ :.:1..- -)\:~ ..... ·• ;.~-· ''\:. -•·!'1 j -~--- -~ . . '- . ~ .' ,' .,. forming Arts Department, ex- pressed her distress and said, \The dance program costs very little to maintain. Over the past three years we have invested heavily in the studio, the office, the sound and lighting equipment, and library materials. A half-time visiting po· sition is exactly what I think we need- the cost is minimal, and for this we get a strong academic core to the program.'' . A letter sent to those involved in: the dance program stated, :'The Performing Arts Departi:nent is sin- cer~ly distressed try. this situatfoJI, ; We have watched the_ dance. pro .. gmtn grow in s.ize and spirir over ·_, WomYJ;t's'Vnie>n an~ the.;. · - Pre-Bealtll-:Society-·w·ouldi like)l<t\thank-the follo\Vitig. ·, s1:Udent'Foru01· NoteS . . - . ~·' ..... - .--...... .---··-~··1-~---~-- ~:: ~1-?.~; ~-~: .... ~;' : organiZations fort-heir gen· . . -' -. - . ; - erous g-ft~ to th~.'~Pet~ls on· aRo'~e'' Fund::. Gamma Phi Beta, J)elta D-elta Del~a, Sigm-a Delta -Tau, Delta Gamma, Sigma P.hi, Alpha Delta Phi, Chi Psi, Psi Upsilon, Theta Delta C.hi, Phi _Delta ·rheta, Kappa Alpha, Phi Gamma ~efta, Phi Sigma Kappa, Alpha Epsilon Pi, Smith House, Coffee lfouse,. Bronner House, T~urston House, Locker Room, Wells Ho_use, Rich- mond, North, South, Davidson, Fox, 'West and Women's Field Hockey. Your Donat(ons are greatly appreciated. Th~nk you for your support. October 29,1998 ! M-eeting called to order at Mailach-Theme House l 6:45PM ~ : Absent-Mallach, Leif, Bennett, , Oliver, Lem:le, Zandman, Schuler Motion to approve agenda. Second. All in favor. Pass. Motion to approve minutes from 10/19/98. Second. All in favor. Pass. OFFICER REPORTS Campus Life-Roacbe-Concert at Siena success. Bonfn·e Tour Nov. 7th sold out. Finance-Parisi-Nothing. · Administration-Lyrtch-COC passed 2 constitutions with approval for funding. 1. Hospital volunteering club 2. Noise room. Sound room in back of coffee house. DISCUSSION. AAC·Mondlick-Calendar issue. DISCUSSION. Common lunch hour. For infonnation .... visit his website. Multi-cultural-Bennett-Absent. Trustees-Zandrnan-Elections this week. Rules given. Trustees last week was good. Tues Oct 27th, press meeting at 702 Huron St.lpm. IFC, Pan .. hel, 1HC Drown-Halloween party this weekend. Leif- The Naked Truth not happening. week successful. - Senior-Chaplin-Setup commit- tees. · Zandman-Going for biggest class -fundraiser ever. Possible fountain. Give ideas to Zandrnan or ChapLin. Junior-Barry-Pumpkins made $210. . Sophomore-Aloan-Nothing. COMMITfEEREPORTS SAC-Chaplin-N0thing. Forum Consultants· Markowski· nothing. Security TaskForce-Casola- Notlling. · OLD BUSINESS Letterfrom Sakala about locker room read to student forum. NEW BUSINESS 1. Computers in CC. DISCUS- SION of terminals, email, web access, 2. Club approvals. Union College Hospital V (}}unteering Cluh DISCUSSION. Gendron-Motion to table. Second. All in tavor. Pass Noise Room. DISCUS- SION. Motion to approve. Second. AU in favor. Pass. 3. Speakers' f<Jrum for faculty. ANNOUNCEMENTS 4. Lemle'sjoke. Motion to adjourn. Second. AU in favor. Meeting end: 7:55pm. curtail his gift because we are cur- rently making plans for the next budget. Since I know that this is a problem, I will take it into consid- eration with all .of the other pro- posals.\ \I realize that dance is impor- tant. I want to provide a good pro- gram, but I am not sure if it can be provided at the same level because something has t() give.\ The Petforming Arts Department ()bviously hopes that it is not their J()ss. But :whose can i:t be? It is. un:- fortunate that tlle Co\lege does not realize what an asset a strong dallce program can be .. ·The Staff of Concordiensis wishes all students luck on their ex- ams and a safe Winter break. See you in 199·9. Our first meeting of Winter Term will be on January 7,1999. All students are welcome to attend.

The Duality of American Demo-cracy by Heather Clements Staff Writer \Voter turnout expected to he low today,\ announced the CNN website on Election Day, Novem- ber 3, 1'998. For a nation built on· democratic principles, including free elections, it is disheartening that so few actually take the time to vote. When less than the major- ity of the voting public actually participates in national, state, and local elections, greater problems within the United States polity are exposed. Apathy is often cited as a rea- son for the weakening of the pol- ity. However, I would argue that apathy itselfis a mere symptom of a far greater problem: the duality of American democracy. The duality of American democ- racy is the persistent dichotomy between what we stand for and what we practice. For example, all Americans are raised to believe in the sterling principles of democ- racy, liberty, and freedom. We are taught to believe that the United States is the best country on earth -that we are the moral beacons for the world, the technological lead- ers, and the cultu.ral trendsetters. \In God We Trust,\ \E Pluribus Unum,\ \We hold these truths to be se]f evident, that all men are cre- ated equal,\ - these words have unified our nation and instilled in us the national pride that we are somehow different, destined by God to lead the world to ideologi- cal righteousness. able liberties that Locke described ward politics; it is nearly impos• would be evident. In today's sible to fmd optimism or consis- America all we see is contradiction, tency in politics today. We elect injustice when th.ere should be jus- politicians who claim. the moral tice, inequality when there should high ground and pro)llise a return be equality, disunity when there to the idealistic Ame:rica we all should be cohesion. hope for, and then we repeatedly It is this duality of American de· witness them breaking promises, As a nation founded ·in an ~ge ofmonarchsand dynasties and as an experiment in democracy and freedom for all, we succeeded and ptospered while other govern- ments failed. We proved beyond a shadow of a doubt that the land mocracy that is causing such disil- selling out to elite interests,, and of George Washington and lusioiliil:ent. Wearealltoldth.atwe compromisingthewishesoftheir Abraham Lincoln, of constituency to the pilgrims and the r-------~-------'-'-~~~---'------....,.,promote selfisha.d- Mayflower, of immi- '' Tf • d • . • . h·· vancement. grants and the Statue .6:i lS . lsgustzng t at we Andyet,inana- ofLiberty, truly was the · tion formed around ~:n:::::~~~dom, settle for such low , ~o~::;e::;;l~~ Today, as we drive l l ment, we are abdi,.. through the city of ··. ev·e s of acceptable eating our respon- Schenectady and ob- sibility as Ameri- serve buildings in dis- behavior ,· n th.- .,·s· co· .u· n· ... tcoanresvbeyrs' .enothtetrydu.ina-.lg- repair, unemployed people aimlessly sit- ity of American de- ting on their front try by politicians and mocracy. It isun- porch steps, children acceptable that the who are running in the •t • · h · ld principles that we streets when they Cl rzens W en We COU · hold most dear are should be in school, not put into prac- tice. and boarded-up be workino towards shops, how can we not ~ It is unaccept- wonder what hap- b tt • t • '' able that our high- pened to our perfect . · e ertng OUr na lO n. est ideals are sur- America? ...._ ________ _... ______ _._ ____ --'rendered without a In our perfect America. there are living in the greatest country fight. It is unacceptable that we would be no such thing a.s vio- on earth, and yet everyday we are allow the greatest country on lence in the streets, riots, children deluged with the sex scandals of earth to simply waste away while dying needlessly, millions living in our leaders, corruption of our gov- we all feel powerless to do any- poverty, the elderly under cared for, ernment, deteriorating social fab- thing. corrupt politicians, and inefficient ric, and whatever other national It is disgusting that we settle for bureaucracies. In our perfect calan::tities the media can dredge up. such low levels of acceptable be- America, the General Will that No wonder so many Americans havior in this country by politi- Rousseau wrote of and the unalien- have such a defeatist attitude t()~ cians and citizens when we could be ~orking towards bettering our nation. It is in.excusablethatpeople are rolling over and playing dead; whining that they cannot change anything when, in fact, the one of two people .that they did not vote for the last time around are making . huge changes for the worst. If a few people can get together and undermine the hi_ghest prin- ciples of democracy, I believe it is quite possible for many pe<>ple to rebuild and to re.-implement the highest ideals that this country were foUilded on. Furthermore, an uncaring, disil- lusioned, and uninvolved public will certainly cause a declining, in- efficient, and corrupt polity. We must recognize that getting in- volved in :politics is not a casual choice, but the responsibility of aU American. citizens. It is our duty not to allow the America that we were raised to believe in t-o simply slip away into the abyss of apathy. In conclusion, the duality of American politics~ the dichotomy between our ideals and our prac- tices, is slowly ripping this .coun- try apart. We are not a nation of separate principles and actions. We are one nation, a unified nation, and we should work to create an American society that puts our highest ideals into practice. It is time that we discard our defeatist, disillusioned attitudes and recog~ nize that our opportunity to make even the smallest changes in soci- ety is not an option, but our respon- sibility as American citizens. Africa Releases Report on Rights Abuses by Charlie Tuthill Staff Writer On Thursday, October29, South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission released a 3,500-page report on human rights abuses during the apartheid era. The re- port took two years to complete and is based on hearings as well as the commission's own investi- gations. There has been much contro- versy surrounding this report. It has upset many national leaders, including President Nelson Mandela and former president F. W. de Klerk. It claims that the apart- heid government as well as resis- tance groups were responsible for the many atrocities during the apartheid era. Timing may be one of the rea- sons why the report has become so controversiaL The report has taken longer than expected to com- plete. Delays in starting the report, and the need for extensions, have caused it to be released later than expected. The report was sup- posed to be released between elec• tions, but because of its lateness it was released during an election year. The report's closeness to the eluding the extrajudicial killing (lf Klerk andP.W. Botha, to the via- upcoming elections has made for political opponents and others, in- lence. a politically active environmellt. side and outside South Africa.\ The commission believes that Political maneuvering, in an effort The report goes on to rebuke the F. w. De Klerk was an accessory to save face, started the :rnomin.g testimony offolTiler governmentof- to murder after the fact. It reports before the r:eport was released. ficials who claimed that the words that Law and Order Minister ANC leaders tried to have the re- \eliminate;' and \neutralize\ were Adriennne Vlok and Police Com- port blocked altogether. Others, used in certain meetings, but did missioner Johan van de Merwe such as F.W. de Klerk, have de- not mean \kill.\ The commission were involved iti two car bornb- cided to take the commission to also believes that the apartheid ings during the late 80's. The com- court. De Klerk r--------------_..._ ____________ ....,mission be- wants to dis- lieves that provesomeofthe De Klerk commission's ''The commission also be- learned of findings about iheir in- the government l• fh f th h •d volvement duringtheapartM leves. a . e apart el gov- afterthefact and did not h,.I'de .. a ... ... \' .a • ernment g. rouned its enemies notify au- conimission'sre- r thorities. T h e ~;~r~::e~!~ and its enemies, friends to- ch~ge:Wer: emmentformuch h • '' even more oftheviolence. It get er JH One Category. . serious for states that \the P.W. Botha. predominantpor- The J7 .. mem- tion of gross vi()- ~......;. __ ......_ _________ ~-----,,.....----:-,.....---:.........,::::----=-----,,Jber panel al- lations of human rights was com- government grouped its enemies leges that Bothaordered the bomb- mitred by the former state through and its enemies' friends together ings of a church headquarters and its security and law enforceme~t in one category. a union building. The commission agencies.\ The report also fmds The commission claims that they also believes that Botha had some that the apartheid government \were lumped together as one tar- involvement in the abductions \knowingly planned, undertook, get - a single category of people and killings of the apartheid era. condoned and covered up the to be killed.\ The report also links One of the major groups also commission ofunlawful acts~ in- two former Presidents, F.W. De named in the report was·the Afri- can National Congress. The ANC was a major opponent of apartheid. The commission blames them for many human rights abuses despite the fact that they were fighting for racial equality. The commission believes \there were instances where its secUI'ity forces perpetu- ated gross violations of human rights.\ The report notes that in- dividuals who became state wit- nesses or informants were \re• garded as legitimate targets to be killed.\ The panel finds fault with the ANC for ignoring and encourag- ing human rights abuses. The commission finds them. \morally and politically accountable for cre- ating a climate in which support- ers believed their actionsto be le- gitimate.\ The commission cites Winnie Mandela, the President's wife, asheingpartofthe violence. The Truth and Reconciliation · Commission's report has come at a difficult time for South Africa. The country is still recovering from its violent past The commission's reportwas.meantto help the coun- try come to grips with its past and to move into the future. Many people in South Africa believe that this transition will take a great deal of time.

. , Tt ~~\- -~., .. ~--~~_,.,.·l·- A··i~. QJ:.l.ltUDt:lri.etu•is • November 5, 1998 • Page7 Metroplex:·A Big Idea for Schenectady Iraq Blocks Inspections bySteplt-en Nemeth Staj[Writer the past, he sees that Iraq's current stance towru:ds indefmitely blocking the monitor- ing process as a major obstacle towards lift- ing the sanctions. Butler also stated that Iraq is in \full scale confrontation with the Security Council.\ Iraq has said that its non- cooperation decision was in response to a Security Council decision last Friday to do a \comprehensive review\ of UN-Iraqi policy that Baghdad hoped would lead to a partial easing of sanctions. The United States blocked efforts of France, Russia, China, and other Security Council members to consider lifting the embargo on products such as oil if Iraq complied with weapons demands. The US delegation says other issues need to be reviewed, such as account• ing of all Kuwaiti prisoners and properties during Iraq's occupation of Kuwait. As a result, all remaining weapons inspectors have ceased work until Iraq ceases its non· cooperation stance. \We are wait- ing on further instructions on what to do,\ said Nils Carlstrom, director ofthe Baghdad Monitoring and Verification Center. Butler said he would not ordet any weapons in- spectors out oflraq. Iraq_ gave pennission to the Vienna·based International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the UN watchdog for nuclear weapons, could continue its monitoring work. :by Dan Kirsdt St(lj{Writer - . A'baoy Mayor Jerry Jennings, in an pf- fort tlllea:ve his mark on the city he presides o:vet, lobbied personally to Governor Pataki for the so-called \Albap.y .'Plan,\ which sinl· ply is a :plan to \rejuvenate;' downtown Al,. ba11:y in much the same way Mayor Coming and. 'Ciov~morNelson Rockefeller attempted in the 197()s with mixed success. Only a new bllildingfor tl:le DepartmentofEnviromnen- tal Consewation, parking garage, and vari- Olls ether pork barrel projects are what com- .pl'ise tile Albany Plan. But; of course_, the obligatory gubernatorial signing ceremony h~dAibany politicians elbowing for room in the p:hoto shoot, all wishing to take some cl'e<lit for it. The same goes fo:r something called Mett:tDplex. Anyone who has driven through doV!ntown Schenectady the last few weeks llav:e seen thebillboard: \~~METROPLEX: A Big klea. '\ Indeed. Andsr.> far, that's all it is. Metr<lplex began as an idea pu:Shedby Price Choppe:r CEO and pillar-of-the- Scbenect2dy-community Neil Golub and our own lJEi<Jn President Roger Hull in concert with1heir\Schenectady2000\ organization. Metr()plex. began as a idea similar to the So\l!tll Mall/Nelson A. Rockefeller-Empire State ?la:.za in downtownAlbany. l'll.e Soath Mall demolished a huge por- tion l()f Albany's South End to make room for ai. v-ast shopping/dining/theater and en- tertainment complex. Metroplex is,. similarly, a piCill tel turn downtoWil Schenectady into an ecollotnic·center forresidentsaround the entire Capital Region -who apparently don't rnake it to Schenectady much anymore. It may h~ve begun as such, but there was so rnucll discord and disagreement among poli- tici!llls tllat they agreed to disagree. 'fhere are now vague promises of still IJl()re p.:Jrk barrel projects in not only Sch•ene ctady, but Niskayuna, Scotia, (} knvi!le, Amsterdam, and other Schenectady suburbs. This plan has been :PUShed by state Senator Hugh Farley and his son, County L~gislator Bob Farley, as well asAssemblyman PaulTonko, county OnMonday, UnitedNations' ChiefWeap- Legislatur~ Chairman Frank Potter and ons Inspector Richard Bt1tler reported that County Manage:r,Bob McEvoy. To get~ : the Security Council is considering actions idea of.who p1.1shed thi~, all you need. to . against Iraq for its late~t attempt to block .picture is -l;llot of politicians leaning over . long-term we~pons inspections. This latest and smiling at the governor's wonderful • confrontation culminates a month-long signature .while they wpndered what in · struggle between the UN and Iraq over evi- Ood 's name this was supposed to be. The dence of the presence ofVX nerve gas and a :final hill is actually only a law allowing for a . trace ofdecontamination compounds on shell state-financed but county-run Metrople~ · :fragments which indicates Iraq;s attempts at Auth~rity that is to determine what · a chemical weapons program and the con- Metroptex is actually to be. cealment ofit. Tbe gov~rnor was to have a say in who The VX nerve gas was discovered on shell is appointed to the board;. but most likely fragments at an American lab early last month; wanted to deny involvement with the similar tests were conducted on additional project as much as possible, because there shell fragments at Swiss and French labs. The is the potentic:rl for a colossal flop. Now Swiss labs yielded no results while nerve gas Scheaectady Mayor AI Jurczynski, whose was found on fragments in the French lab. proposed city-wide tax hike of33 percent Iraqi officials claim.the US is deliberately try- can QUly drive out businesses and resi- ing to keep sanctions imposed by forging dents, and under whese administration data and challenged the US to duplicate the hundreds of General Electric jobs qave · results. VX nerve gas is a fatal liquid that taken flight to Atlanta, is in charge of five becomes a gas when in contact with air. It of the twelve appointments to the board. works by blocking signals·ft:om nerve cells; it Mr. Golub has been mentioned as the stron- can cause loss of muscle control, respiratory gest c:hoice for chairman of the board, and paralysis, and death Iraq reported that it had most likely, if this is to happen, he would be attempted to produ<:e VX but .produced Sarin the only choice. nerve gas inst~ad. The only opposition to Metroplex has The newest allegations mean that Iraq has come from Paul Vandenburgh, a local radio deliberately hid its chemical weapons pro- talk show host who has voiced nothing but gram in hopes of resurrecting it when sane- concern about the future of this project, tions are lifted. This action has the UN Secu- and has adamantly predicted its inevitable rity Council and UNSCOM (United Nations failure. Special Commissio11) looking at the possibil- The only support for his position has ity of military actions and a halt to any lifting come from longtime Schenectady Mayor of sanctions imposed on them. Frank Duci, who now sits on a local Hous- Iraq's Deputy Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz ing A.11thority board. Support :V,om active . claims t)lat the US is abusing its powerful elective politicians has been few and far position on the Sectuity Council to veto any between. lifting of sanctions on Iraq. Aziz also states If this does indeed fail, though, those that sanctions should be lifted since Baghdad politicianswhonowshowtheirsupportwill has complied with all the demands of most likely shield themselves from blame UNSCOM. \When the sanctions are not by passing the buck. The blame for its fail- lifted, why should we go on working with ure and waste of taxpayer money, or the UNSCOM? Working with UNSCOM is bitter credit forthe{unlikely) rejuvenation of the and it's too expensive,\ Aziz said. In a CNN Electric City, will ultimately be in the hands interview, Richard Butler calledthis latest con- of Mr. Hull and Mr. Golub, pillars of the frontation with Iraq a \truly serious matter.\ community. Although this has happened many times in • The effects of the continuing struggle between the UN, the US, and Iraq reached the White House where President Clinton issued a statement calling Iraq's stance \to- tally unacceptable\ and went on to state \For Iraq, the only path to lifting interna- tional sanctions is cooperation with weap- ons inspectors.\ Clinton, along with the Secretary of Defense, said that the military alternative has \always been an option we cou\d pursue ... but we prefer to act through our allies and with our allies if we have to take any action at all.\ fn response, London replied that they would help if any military action was needed. However, some UN offi- cials are hopeful that this current standoff regarding Iraq can be resolved through peaceful means. US officials also expressed their opinion that a diplomatic solution could be reached to prevent military action and to prevent destabilization ofthe region where new inroads have been forged. World Seeks to Bring Pinochet toJustice by Neil Routman StaffWritet In 1973, General Augusto Pinochet ousted Preside11t Salvador Allende in a violent coup in Chile. Pinochet was dictator of Chile for 17 )le.ars, until 1990. During his tenure, an estimated 3,000 political persons opposing Pin>Ochet disappeared-some estimates con- cluc:le: around 4,000. Currently, General Pin()chet is a senator-for-life in the Chiiean goYernment. The Government, and a large per<entage ofChile'spopulation, is content wit11 Fillochet, but much of the world is seek- .ing, to bring him to justice. · Th~ ()pportunity carne to attack Pinochet wlletl be went to England for some minor back surgery. While in the hospital, British police quietly arrested him on behalf of an extra<l.ition request by Spanish Judge Baltasar Garzon. Recently, the Spanish Na- tiolla.l' Court ruled that Spain has jurisdic- ti011 ovei\'the crimes committed in Chile and Ar~entilla during each military dictatorship. Eut a British judge mled that England couldrl't extradite becau.se,ofthe diplomatic intm unity Pinochet has since the alleged cri:m.~ occurredwhildlewasinpower. Lord Chief Justice Thomas Bingham stated, \A former head of state is clearly. entitled to itrummity for criminal acts committed in the course ofexercising public functions.\ The case citing charges of murder, torture, and kidnapping was dismissed and the judge ordered the British Government to pay Pinochet's legal bill of 350,000 pounds, about 560,000 dollars. How-.\\---- ever, the judge has al- lowed for appeal, Pinochet is currently de- tained in a London hos- pital with armedguards. Along with the Spanish Government, 1....---~--------'--= the judge's ruling disappointed numerous political and civil rights groups. A wife of one of the tortured said, \This is a. devastating blow. There will be certain people around the world who will be re- lieved, but in the liberal democratic world there will be great disappoin1nient. At worst it will be seen as a license to kill.\ Vicente Alegria, a member of the Chileans in Exile entity, stated, \We are not happy because it is a disgrace. H()W is it possible that just because you are a head of state is it enough for imm illlity?\ In defense of the British, a spokesman for the foreign ministry said, \The [British] Gov- ernmenthas a prof()illld respect for [the Chil- ean government], and we have nothing mere to say.\ Spain has vowed to continue fighting; its warrant will not modified. \[Garzon] will con- tinue seeking Pinochet's extradition as long as he is de- tained,'' stated a Span- ish court source. Human rights ac- \\' www.cn~u:om tivists have mounted an assault to censure Pinochet. Isabel Allende, the daughter of Salvador Allende, the ousted president in 1973, arrived in En- gland on Monday_ Allende is helping \The Chilean Group\ by voicing her disgust fol' Pinochet. Sola Sierra, the leader of ''The Chilean Group,\ hopes that the British gov- ernment overturns the court's decision. \All the arguments to defend Pinochet have no validity when applied to a person who didn't have any humanity when he carried out the worst crimes in the history of our country.\ Besides Spain, Switzerland has now filed for extradition. Independent lawyers in En- gland, France, and Sweden have filed mo- tions on behalf of relatives who died during Pinochet's tenure. But the only option for the parties is to wait and see how the appeal proceeds. The only reason the appeal was granted was because of the \obvious pub- lic importance and intemational interest as to the outcome.\ The House of Lords could hear the appeal as early as next week. IfPinochet, now 82;_years-old, is allowed to walk, there will be a serious review of international law dealing especially with dip- lomatic immunity. The only check on diplo- matic immunity is the diplomat's own coun- try censuring him. This happened two years ago when a German diplomat was driving drunk and killed a boy on the street. The US was rendered helpless, but he Gennan gov- ernment convicted him of manslaughter. The unusual aspect about Pinochet is that he is incredibly popular in Chile; nearly all gov- ernment officials want him safely returned to Chile. Because ofhispolitical trump, Gen- eral Augusto Pinochet might walk away from certain sentencing and penalties.

Page 8 ·November 5, 1998 · QI.on.c.orui.ellsis · Women's Soccer: No Respect Although our women's soccer team finished the season with a 13-1-1 record, the best record in the program's history, they did not receive an invitation to play in the NCAA toumament. The team beat William Smith (ranked ninth in the nation), and tied Williams{thirteenth in the nation).· But, Wayne Burrow (Assistant Director of NCAA Championships) and the rest of the NCAA decided that Union did not desetve a bid, or a chance to make history. Instead, William Smith (14-3), Cortland (I 5-5-1 ), Ithaca (13-3-'l ), Rochester ( 12-4-2), and Nazareth ( 15-3) made the tournament. All of these teams have lesser 11ecmds than Union, yet somehow they were bestowed a birth in the NCAA tournament while Union was denied. Athletic director Burrow claims that the NCAA ultimately determines the teams, but in fact the New York region recommended them to the NCAA; Susan Hoffman of SUNY Brockport was in charge of this deci~ sion. Teams are selected by streAgth of schedule, record against common teams, tournament teams and considered teams. Union may not have a towgh schedule, but when it came to the big gatnes, Union has won; they beat William Smith, who later lost to SUNY C01iland. 'Why shottld a school be punished simply because of the teams that they play? It is impossible to J>redict how good a team wi II be when the schedule is made. It is not Dick Sakala's fault, it i:, not Brian Speck's tiw lt. and it certainly is not the women's soccer team's fault. After finishing 13-1-1, being ranked second in New York State, and having defeated other possible tournc1ment teams, it. seemed a sure· bet they would be invited to the NCAA tournament. Thet·efore, they-decided not to travel to the NeVv York State tournament. Theteam deserved to get a birth as much as William Smith did. It seems as thou!.ih William Smith received a bid simply because it was last year's national runner ~p. How- e-.~r, this shouldn't haYe bl!cn the case. The women on this soccer team deserve better and the NCAA COI'11plete.ly overlooked them. Ones the NC/\A have something against our program? H~1w did three kams, simply based on the schedttle they play. hecome \better\' than Union almost overnight? Throughout the season, the national polls thought Union was the second best team behind William Sm·ith. What those polb failed to recognize is that Union beat William Smith. It just does not make sense. Did Susan Hoffman come to our games? No. Did Wayne Burrows come tn our games? No. So what makes these pel}ple experts on Union College Wom2n · s Soccer? They may have looked at the statis- tics. but that is all. ... Even with that. statistics don't lie. Urrion· outscored opponents 57-9. Katie Smith was named UCA.'\ ··Rookie nfthc Year,'\ Brian Speck was nameC' UCAA \'Coach of Year'' and live players were named toth~ UCA/\ ''First ream.\' · ' If Union lost only one game all year. had a numberofplay~rs honored by their conference, beat the teams that reached the tournament over them. and had the best season ever in Union College Women's :,nccer hi~tory,. how were they overlooked? The women's soccer team posted all amazing record, has amazing play- ers and amazing coaches. however the only thing it does not have is a birth in the NCAA tournament. The Student New~p{lper of Union College Silzce 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Stephanie Slobotkin - Michelle Tham EDITORS'-IN-CHJEF Jennifer Pelose EXECUTIVE EDITOR Colleen Brown Debbie Pellish A & £EDITORS Eugene Schultz FEATURES EDITOR Aaron Braunstein David Meguerdichian PHOTO EDiTORS ' .. DCB ,·1 • David Kay OPINIONS EDITOR Brooke Barylicl\. NEWS EDITOR Victoria Hargreaves SCIENCE & TECH EPITOR. David Brooks Brian TerHnsky David Weiner SPORTS ED/TOR/5. Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Adam-Paul S1nolnk WORLD NEWS EDITOR Jaime Chandler Heather Clements COPY EDITORS Danielle Devine ADVERTISEMENT COORDINATOR PIIOTOCiRAPHERS': Paul O'Annibale, Jeremy Messler, Ariadne Papagapitos, Amanda Payton. Cory Silken. 5.T4FF: Jeffrey Ausfeld, Mary Kate Aveni, Lisa BlatJstein, Anne Bishko, Jessica Brea.rton, Holly Burnside, Gina Campanella,.Jobn Carbone, Kevin Carter, Spencer Christie, Heather Clements. Jay Connelly, Jim DeWan, lan Eletz, Mary Felton, Steve Flaherty, Annette Grajny, Julie Gardne1·, Jon Gasthalter, Matt Gendron, Courtney Hayden, Deric Hearrington, Sarah Harsh, Susan Joyal, .Daniel Kelhmanovich, Jon Kelson, Lis l~idder, Dan Kirsch. Caitlin Loureiro, Michael McGuire, Hugh Meyer, Sloan Miller, Shaun Montana, Stephen Nemeth, Hillary Olk, Charlie Puthill, Neil Routman, Adnm Shebitz, LfltJisa Stephens, Rory Ster·n, Jon Tapper, Chas·les Tuthill, Mike Winn, \The Wiseman,\ Ben Vaffee, Jessica Zuehllte, Portia Zwicker. OP/ED Opinions et , ~ I DTDNT INHf\lE'' Another fllv.orite from the .bred Richnu:m Archives. . ~ - - . Ignorant l\Jiessages Breed Hatred ' .. ~ f1ed in the Bible are no Ionge!' used However. there are some people tocfay), religion has grown and who reatize that'lt is not necessttry changed with society. As society to fear those wlio are different. matures, it is the job of religious They understand that the world is leaders to inte.rpret the B il)le in full of interesting and .unique new ways. people who are not all alike. They It is messages like the one con- tained in,'\ For A 11 Ch!lstians (Part One of Two).\ that turn many people away from organizedreli- gi on. It is very sad that one week after tl1e school came together in frQnt of the campus center to pro- test violence and discrimination ngainst homosexuals, an article mns in the paper ddi1iing homo- sexuality as a\ diseased abnormal- ity.\ It makes one wonder if the people who killed Matthew Shepard, in tl1e gay-qashing inci- dent in Wyoming. were ''good Cht1stian boys.\' The first fallacv in th~ artie le ' J ' . \\.:as the idea that the intt·odtldti'on of secular themes somehow hurts the church. Integration of secu Jar themes allows the congregation to apply the teachings of the Bible to their lives. If the priest \yer~ to teach the Bible as it would have been taught i11 the titne of Jesus, he would be reading it in Latin, which would be just as effective in 1998 as efim inating secular themes ti'om mass. It is important for tile church to interpret tlleteachings i11 the Bible as they apply to modern times. Just as it is no longer acceptable to stone someone to death for steal- ing or poke out an eye for adul- tery (i.e. the punishments speci- There was ·no way for the au- accept these differences and \love thors ofthe B-ible to have know!- their neighbors,'' despite the fact · edge of, and therefore be able to that they are not exactly like them. write teachings for modem iss11es Ignorance breeds fear and fear such as cloning, the use ofweap- breeds hatred. Matthew Shepard ·ons of mass destruction or tire Big died because there are people in Bang theory. Insistence upon an the world wl1<l hated him simply elimination ofsectdarthemes from because of his sexual preference. mass is only going to alienate tbe ManhewShepard. There probably con·gregation and drive people aren't many names that are more awayfrorri the church. · Christian. It's too bad that the Tile most ti·ightening part<Jfthe ·· sheep got so out of control' witW article was· the belief that tl1e ac- their ignorance and fear that they ceptance of human differen.::es is killed the Shepard. somehow wrong.. Wool sweaters inay keep you Tl1ere is nothing wrong \With in- warm when it's cold outside, but eluding the theme of tolerance ln don't let them fool you into think- the church. In fact, one cou !if at-- ing it's not winter. Religion should gue tltat a major theme ofCI1ris- be a tool for good; it· should be tianity is supposed to be \love thy used to promote love and togeth- neigl1bor.'\ Organized religion be- erness. ltshou'ld not be used to dis- comes soniet hing to be feared cri~n in ate against one group of when an attitude pr religious su- people. periority is taken and a 11eed for What happened to Matthew ·\the Crusades revisited\\ is enrpha- Shepard is horrible, and it was sized. · . caused by the t~ar cre.ated by ar- If one is a btind-sheep 1 iv ing ln ticles like, .. For All Christians.'' a CaVe before the da\-VIl offirc: it is possible to believe that hornosexu- als are a, \'terrible abomilllt~tion.'' Sincerely, Lis Kidder ·o2 Registration Nightmare b)' Adam Shebitz Sfl!lf Writer One wo~ilei 9'pica~:I·Y,:think tha,t a $30,000 annual tuition 'would provide for enough courses, and 'enough open spots for students who would want to take those cout'ses. It seems that Union, how- ever, doesn't quite see tll\e Togic in that. There should be no reason that students should wake up at 5:30 in the morning to get a card after they w.ere put on waiting lists. I was in Bailey Hall Tuesday morning at 5:30 with about 30 other psychology students who were all desperately seeking a class to experience this problem first hand. Some students signed up for foUl' card courses and didn't get into any. Psychology majors didn \t get into courses in which they should have been first to gain acceptance. Others waitecl for two hours bcfor~ thev cot.lld be.siJI.ned - ~ up. In addition, many M tlie stu- . d~nti tl@t were,awake Jong befOre ihe de~·lis and tl-ie preiidcnt roiled out cf_their respective -beds dian' t even get into thr.e coursestllat they should have rightfully be~Ztl ac- cepted. tet;s talk· about the fact that waiting list day always twns into a rat race in which those who suc- ce·ed are the ones who get UJ) ear~ tier than the others. I know that l am not the only person ort campus among students and professors who feels that this is not the best way to be accepted into a course. When I finally received niy card, I1·eceived a \congratulati()ns.'' It should not be an achievetnent to get into a class. One would think that the spots open in a given class·,vouid be plentiful, and if not, then it should be clear that a change is needed. There needs to either be mort1 se~­ tions of packed courses or addi- tio.:.nal profe~pors. It nfpkes no sense that Psychology~ a 111<\ior of such popular appeaL has so few professors and is grep.tly under- manned. Keeping. in mind the goal of Union to be a sl'nall liberal a1·ts college. upper-level courses can't be cluttered with students. The solution is simple; hire more pro- fessors. One additional tl1U-time professor \vould add two more courses per term. For $30,000, students pay a great deal for edu- cation and among the priorities at this school it should be. first in line. Hiring more professors would be a step rn the right direction and in turn would be a step away from the agony suffered by professors, secretaries and students durin\ \' registration time. c ct· ta fo pl ro c 0' til la cl T u v tt tl a it tl c \\ a n c n a c e e ~ t t

. . . OP/ED (1l:mt.c.oruie:usi!S • N ~veniber 5, 1998 · Page 9 Opinions For All Christians: (Part Two of Two) rm . Advice for the Christian church to transcend tradition CDC Updates ••• !JY W.A.S. \The Wis-eman\ Staff Writer This 'VVhole situation of the church distancing OJ' even bla- tantly divo.rdng itself from its foundational responsibilities and philosophies is defitl:itely at the root of her affliction, ·It must be redtessed if the Church does not want to be crippled by fhe malignancy that is now rapidly spreadirtg throughout hernetwork. Yet there are other problems within the cllurch that have been spawned by this overarching lade of adherence to the Lord's will. As mentioned earlier, there is a lack of solemniJ:y i·egarding the church and especially the mass. The church wasoncethe object of utmost respect, adoration, and veneration. It was recognized as the holiest ofholyiJiaces in which the ~pirit gf the L.ord dwelled .at all times. When -people embarked into church, they embarked into the Lord's House. Consequently. they l10nored the church and its no~le caretakers with the most magnificent esteem, as no place on Eartll could be more majestic, As far as the mass is con- cerned, it was co11ducted in the most sublime ambiance imagin- able. Worsh ipersfe It the presence of the Lot·d beside tl1em during each and evety rnGment ofthe cer- emony. They understood the poi- gnancy of the teach i11gs that were being d1vulged both in the sctip- tures and in their interpretations. And, 'vhen they sl1ared in the climactic Eucllar.istic sact'ifice of the Body and Blood of .Jesus Christ, they realized that they were being imbued with thespiritoftlte Lord and, in doing S<l, sharitlg in his triumph over all sin . .In short, they were fully aware tl1at there ·was no greater gl OI')' then that which was conveyed through the Mass. My fel·lowChristians, tl1is image has generally vari ished h1 most Churches. is accused ofhm'boring bigotedand from rap id'ly revolutionizing .• contemptt1ous viewpoints that al- times. , legedly have greatly offendecl and l acknowledge, gladly, that : oppressed people both in the past there are many churches that are . and in the present. It has even been . det~nnined to keep the traditional , vil.ified as being an enemy of free church intact come hell or high · thought an£! express•ion. Such a water (literally and figur~tively} i church is fat from the revered one and thus there are many disciples of yesteryear. H need not be ex:- of Christ who are equally ardent · pla.ined why it is so CfUCial for the' in worshipiHg their Lord with . church to redaim this revered stat· ure if it hopes to survive and pros- per into the future. staunchest devotion. dignity, and : .humility. And these unapologetic . ,defemders •ofthe authentic church • • and its authentic precepts are the . · · rnodels that the confused and dis- · , •tOrted churches must emulate in order to revive their aura ofhGli- ness. So the argument that I have at- tempted to substantiate is one of fear blended with hope. The fear is embodied in those churches and congregations that have, either de- liberately or ineptly. wandered from the true path to righteous- ness. And the hope is embodied ir:J those Churches and congrega~ tions that still, to this day. amid all the potent temptations. have valiantly stayed the course. For if the latter can rectifY the former and all Churches can therefore be November 6: NYC Recruiting Day! • Resume Deadline by Spm CDC • To ,participate, you m11st have completed the Recruiting Contract Attention AU Union Students! Do you need an internship for winter break? How about one for next summer? The CDC is ·open all of winter break and can assist you in getting an intern- ship, co-op or fellowship. Come in and see us or check us out on •the web. http ://www.union.edulcareer/CDCIJCSJ.html Fer off-campus access.use the password garnet. Resume Deadlines 1116: Nori, Hennion, Walsh 11/13: Federal Reserve Bank of Boston: official transcript and cover letter needed. Manning and Napier Analyst. •There are several companies accepting resumes on a continu· ous basis. Check the CDC website for details or stop by to check the fall recruiting binder. Today, mass is more of an obi i- gation then a consecration. The sol- emn mood of worshipers gatheri11·g to replenish their souls with the harvest of the Lord's blessings has been supplanted by a casual and relaxed moocl of dispassionate cel- ebration punctuated by the all too frequent laugh or giggl.e. The priest or pastor seems to have lost touch with his congregation, who in turn have lost touch with God, and thus the whole purpose of the mass be\ comes futile. T\lat priest or pa$t<Jr must then resort to wry humor jLlst to keep the congregation awake and listening, for what reason I know not. brought together into harmony 1---------------------------. In order to bring back the true purpose of the mass, we must pen- etrate through the obstructions that separate the minister fi·oin his co11- · gregation and his congre·gation from God-fer only then can the grace ofGodtlow into the mass at1d give it meaning. In c losir1g, I hope that those for- tunate enough to attend a Church that still stubbornly subscribes to the age-o,1d structure laid out by Christ himself are not disturbed bv - . '- '!\'\ under one unified syllabus of be- lief~ ideology, and perspective that coincides with God's will, then all wi1l be saved. T'1e destructive forces of inter- church contention wilf disappear, as all wit! be moving to the beat ~ . of the same drummer. And as the • piety of Churches becomes more · ·ebullient and stern, congregations will begin to deeply appreciate their fai,th and feel more .com- pelled to actively practice it i11 their every day lives. The lt'lle goal of Christianity is to transforlll people both inside ... aHd out with faith in Christ and .• VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN FACT SHEET RAPE AND MlJRDER: Incidence of Rape The results of two nationwide studies suggest that: • Every minute in the United States, 1.3 adult women are raped • 78 women are raped every hour • 1,871 women are raped every d~y 56,916 women arc raped every month 683,000 are raped every yem· when a person's every action be- sins to ret1ect this faith, then this goal has .surely been reached. (Crime Victims R.esea1·ch and Treatment Ceuter ofthe National Vic- tim Center) ' And with such a wondrous re- The rate of sexual assault iii the United States is the highest of any newal, ·it. might even be possible · industrialized nation in t11e world. fm• the Clmrches to reunify as o11e body. Maybe that is wishftil think- lletween 1989 and 1990, the number of rapes and attempted rapes increased m1 estimated 59:%·-to an estimated 2U7 ,{lOO rapes f'roin 130,000; according to the National Crime Sun·ey. One in 5 adult women has been raped, according to tbc cumulative ,...-..-------------------------.-~ -----------t findings of 4 separate groups of investigators working in different For one, the Clturcll is regat~ded as an antiquated histitU:tion that desperately needsto modernize in order to keep upwitll the times. It this article. His an overall criticism of the Christian church (inculcat- ing all major denominatiorts) ctlld its willingness to compromise core elements of church doctrine <;~:nd ideology in the face of pressure . ing, .. but the underlying idea tore- member about all of this is that any achievement of faith .is noth· ing·short of a miracle! .. · · · · regions of the United States. Letter PolicY & Dis.claimer . : ' ' ~ ~ ., .....,. _______ _ Letters to the Editot should be ad4r~ssed to .the OP/ED page and must be received by 5 PM: the Monday before p11blication. Lettet~ mu~t be lesS< tllan 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College col1111.iunity. Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission :beb1tg to ,the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed and saved on a high density disk, although the author's name need not appear in the rtewspapet, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not n.ecessarf1y reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and of no one member .in particular. Any opinion. columns· or carto<>ns reflect the opinions of the writers or artists, and not necessarily the opinions ofille Editorial Board .. Advertisentents appearing in Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board. Conaordiensis is printed by World Media~ 1104 Central Avenue, Albany, NY, 12205. 20% of adult women, 15o/o of college women, and 12% of adolescent . girls have experienced se:xual abuse and assault during their lives. ·According to the U.S. Department of Justice,. Office of Justice Pro- • grams, African American women are almost twice as likely to be rapl!d as white women are. · 18% o.f rapes involve a person that the victim kne·w-husbands or · ex-boyfriends (10% ), other relati:ves/friends/neighbors (29%). 29% of all rapes occur when tl1e victim is less than 11 years old and 32% Of all rapes occur when the victim is between the ages of ll and 17. · Women between the ages of 16 and 24 were three times more likely to be raped than women in otl1er age cohorts. Safe Space Beeper# 1-800-283-2255 pin; 11349 ' • • r ' ' • 7 1 ~ 1 :, • '1,' 1 ry.:'' • 1 J:·~ .. ~~;: ·E-Mail Your T·houghts or Respo11ses to T~ .. ~ .. W~ek\s Opinions to concordy@Vll~uni9n.ed~·J,>? • ~ ': •t • ~~ -4 r~, ~ ;· :·~o,;.JI I ' • \I • .' I ! 1 ' • ' • • ', ', '

term_ rolls aro11nd. We are that n:ruch closer to th~ onset -of fmal e~cuns, winter break and reunion with, f3\11- ily and friends. Time flies, flits by _without. .a trace of its passage and lea~es us in its inexorable wake,. a bit shaken. by the quickness of it all. l guess I can't rem,ember mucll of what I have been doing for.these p~tnll;le weeks: I've been sort of tossed left and right by odd circumstance and constantly building pressure .. It is strange how my memory is so off recently. Witll all the things I find myself scuttling aroun4 to do, ev- eryday, I don't have the ti:rp.:e to remember the specifics of my days. I have become the slave of a scattered, ink-filled pl3:nner that dictates my life, weeks in advance. With that forceful flt>w o-~press­ ing circamstances and imrned~ate deadlines, I have lost a bit ofmy- selfthis term. I have found myself not really feeling my ~ays~ sort of floating through them in an artifi- cial, caffeine-mandated conscious- ness. It is a scary state to be in, not experiencing much of anything because of the simple fact that I am experiencing too much. My fast-paced life lias begun catching up with me and the nice things I used to do for myself to It 1s last issue term and so I decided that it was about time that Riding the Pine p1ade it into the paper at least one more time in 1998. For those of you who have wondered why this article has been missing for so long there is only one thing to say: At the start of this year I thought that in order to help better this campus, my article should also be better it- self. No more obsessing about sex, no more outlandish stories, and no more being irreverent and irrel- evant. However, as one .could see this turned out to be a lot harder than I thought it was going to be. When you yourself are obsessed with sex, enjoy telling outlandish stories, and are irreverent and irrelevant, then the majority oftimes anything you write generally can't help but reflect those qualities. So, I came to an impasse. Every week. I would sit to write, and I would. Yet none of tile articles that were written fell with.in the guidelines that I wanted to set for myself. So, instead of improving the campus by improv- ing Riding the Pine, r was-driving myself nuts and depriving the school of an article th.at a number of people (to my surprise) wanted to read. Then this past week. it hit me. It did not matter what I wrQte.as long as I did write. By writing about whatever, whether it be about me (which is my favorite subject) or about how the Nott in reality is a large leftover monument to our keep me Sai)e and happy don't re~ ~ ally exist anymo,re.ltl).ink a loeof . us fmd ourselves .feelin,&$at way . as we mqve along· -in year~ }ler~ at , college, as we move along in this~ spinning flux: .of life-. As mu'?ll f'S I believe that I am actively accorn--: plishing something with my time and pushing toward some higher goal of success, I also think that I havel9st preciOU$ momeJ_lt~ to the call ofmy textbooks~md demands oftbe new~paper. .. . , what has been most strange is the fact that my memory has been comple.telyhayvyire·:sinc.e I ·started . taking on more and more respon- sibility. With. ~a;, many tests?_napers and er.rands :censta-nUy on my mind, added to my bizarre sleep- ing schedule, I sometimes lose . ~-~ . . track of what dayit even is. I know that none of this is ex- actly healthy; but I l(eep remind- ing myself that there is some pur- pose to all Qfthis.madness. lguess I go so crazy with work during the week so that I have my weekends to be somewhat free. from stress. I assume it only gets h~der from here, though. I don't know how my parents ever found time to take me to gymnastics p,ractice· or plan a birthday party for .me. It is a won- der they even remembered my- birthd~y. It is hard notJto get caught up in the whirlwind·,~f work that piles higher and. higher everyday, but sometimes you just have;to take a step back :and letgo. It isn't worth . itto get everything accomplished·. and.everything perfect-if the con· . sequ.:enceoftb.nse achievements is . unhappiness, I used to:be-so go:ed at balancing my ~rcademic and emotional worlds, bm·recently t have felt tile academic demons HaJl: ;;A ·1P$·Y:Cho ,':---_:;, · ... ;: :.·.i-'-·... ··~,_ . -_ .... .- ' ·:; · ·· cowpissing!.' Man, he was funny.\ .. ,qrr; ~ .: .by; Lis ~idde-r<- ' • 1 · 1 As mytlife:flashed before my :, '' · ' · Staf}i.:Writfer,;' '' · ·) eyes, he continued, ;•we had a lot . This ~ast weekend(l)eca:us~ of o;f_,fun in .the,.~!lllY· I remember my amazing luck); I was given the once, ·we we:re Jlying -ftorn Geor- opportunity to tra'velhome for giato WasJiin~onD.C .... no ... itwas em.erge'ncy''root ca'traf surgery; Washmgtpn State .. .itdoesn'teven -Because I'was flying, I was'·atsd' matter: AnYway, I was the group . giveb the opportunity to have· my leader and T was sup~osed to get first taXi ritt'e. It .waif' an exeiti:hg all the ·guy~ from the plane when momerit in my life: . , we ·landed rtfChicago,'to the plane . I called the cab cotnpari.y, 'and we were taking to Washington, It th<Wt~ld me'kcab wo-llld be· there'~ was supposed tv be a direct flight. :in'fifteeiimtnutes. Ajpfoxfrttateiy W~~l a~~way,. sometllin~ ,hap~ lthiee fufuutes latef: :i loClkeci' <Jut pened, r-don't even kttow what, grow ·Stmnget in their ·et!dless 'my:fm.irth fl6or wmdQw'ahd saW· and wJ 1 eiided Up on a plane that battle agaitlstmysocial:happiness~ the taXi' drlvilf~-awa:y: I sprinted· was.scheiltiled to stop seven times I will try a.ll.d fight back~ though. ' ·down 'S:lffdt.li·: flight~ibfstairs antf on' its way to '~/ashington.- Up and . The last thing I want iste stay a· . out int() the· parlfufg 1ot to. catch' d<?wn,_up and down! Butt)legood slave to ·tb.is al1-too-tigOoro-us. 'him.' He'Jwtirtg back around·:1ird I part abbutit wahhat we got a mar .. schedule.lllavetbetestofmylife open.ed'th~d66rt6 rrnclam'an'who tini every time \ve went to· be inundated with professionaL _,,.. · ··r· -•' k' - \•- c• - • lookeCf susp1ciouslf li e a terror:.. up .... or .... maybe we got two .. .it pressures and familialstress.-\For! isl\o~\:i-ack:..i3Ui since\J bali to. doesn't even matfer. right now • I am· a coUeg~ studenu ·. · ma~e it% tn'6 airi)'6rt, lfhiew cau~ ·. The point is that by tlle tinie we who shou:ld be' h:aving~.so' mu'ch.. don, to tlle·win<fa:ndjum'peo'int8' got to Moiitaha~ I was bom6'edout fu1l,'enjoy1Itgth--e,facttha~mypat- ti{g·car. · · •:·.··: · · .· · · . . ofmy'.mind: Well, we 'Were on·ly · e1tts stiU:tak.e care oftltemai'Ori~' -' ·H- '- · :r. · - ·'- •. - , - -~<,· .. · ''(t·1 f ·.· ~ ·d· ·-- - - · M. \ 'J · ts ·ri!St question, :renin11scen o · suppose to g,etgas rn <>ntana, of my needs. . \ '' ., Lloyd frohi' Dinnb and' Dumber, but I h<iCl to getofftl\eplane, so I :I guessmyove.ractivebtainhas .. was,· ''G. 'oi_ng_·· t()'ihe ,airport; hu. h? was like, 'I'mgetting ()ff,' and the left · me in a bit of ; a· Flying ·somewhere'?\ f't6Id \ltim stewar&ss said, 'Sir, this is only a predicament;; ·filled with- teo · that' i ~as going h()lile{although I fu~Ii11g stop. You can't get offthe. much thoughtprocesS'fermyown .didn't specify wliere for fe·tir that plane.' :But I had t<l get off sol good. I need to step back for a he had control of chemical 'weap~ said, ;Look lady~ we've been go- moment and let my heart take . ons) to'Jlave a root canal. At this ing up and down, up and diJwn and over. This i1l the -only time in rny· · point', an enH:glitened look came to I've got to use the men's room!' life I have to be carefree, I shou'ld his· face, and he realized his ·pur- So I pushed past her and went and cherish these precious minutes, · pose. in life: to des.cribe in great up-chucked in the batluoo.lll and hou!s, days while t still have them detail his root canal e-xperience. she came and was hanging on th.e · . _ - . said, inan,a~1=ent I cap_ o:qly ·#oor:an~\¥e~l!ng 'Sir~_~e;n~~ve to •E1el~Cn!:ltt:as ~~~-yeah, .~:ve.·Iiad · lea.; vel' Well; I said,- 'Go ·a1J.ead! one of those friggjnf things before. Leave! Get out of her~l' So they They drill a hole, in your tooth. left without me! Ha Ha! I stayed No ... no they qon't. Ah, I don't in some friggin bed and bFeakfast even remember. The point.is that or whatever that nightan<l caught they're not that bad. up with the group the 11ext day. It creators, or even ar- your They just drill and then .. .I don't was the magnificent ~even· minus ticles ifl so choose to, I was mal<- resume with gag names of people really remember what happened one until then. We had some good ing a difference. In giving Union you'd worked for, l\!k-e •'Heywood after that. I think.tbey put a tube in times in the army ... \ students a break from reality it J'Blowme:' · · there. Ah, I don't even remember.': I had managed to .wedg-e myself makes people stop and tllink that 8. Eacl:l year, your raise would Iwas.staring athirn, slowly com- into the extreme comer ofthe cab in the big picture we make more be pegged to the fortunes of the ing to the· realization tltat I was in a~ attempt to hide from his psy- work for ourselves than is needed. NFL team of your <Jhoice. never going to -escape from the taxi chotic ramblings, which I suppose By stopping once a week and 9.Thefimniestguyintheoffice alive, whenheplowedonwithhis justgavehimmoreenc<>-uragement laughing, hopefully one will re- would get to be CEO. tale, ''I h~d a cavity filled once, to :fill tl;le void of silence expand- member that we are young and if 10. \Sprzy I'm late, but I got . whe~ I was in. the arm-y. There was ing between us. we are not having fun at times really wasted last night\ would be abunch of us guys .•. there:was this He continued frothingforthsto- when we can, and can get away an acceptal>le expuse ft;Jrtardiness. one guy from the South, he had so · ries like a rab ~d dog un.til we with it, then what is the point? 11. At the end of the workday, many sayings. Ifhe saw agirl who reached the airport. Allin .aHitwas Now that that is all out of the a whistle would blow and you'd was unattractive, he would say, an extremely fun and in1erestin-g way, I turn into ''Chauvinistic jump out y{)ur window and slide 'She's about as ugly as poop on a experience and I highly recom- Schultz\ by reprinting an article down the tail of a bt<>ntosaurus and . church floor.' Ha Ha! Or, if it was mend it for anyone traveling to tile from the November 1998 issue of right into your car like Fred ~~~~h~e'~d~~\J!If~·s~~l~ik~e~a~~~~--------- Maxim. And ladies remember it is . Flintstone. Day, too. returned it the followin._g <lay with all in good fun. 12. It'·~ be considered harmless 20. St. Patrick's. Day, however, a full tank of gas. If Men Really Rul-ed tbe fun to gather 30 friends, pl!t.on would:~eniain ~x:actly_ t)le sam_e. 27. Every man W()Uid get four World (from November 1998 is- · h{)rned helmets, and go pillage a But it would be celebrated every real Get OutofJail Free .card per sue of Maxim magazine)* nearby town. month. · 1. Any fake phone n~bera girl 13. Lifeguards could remove 21. Cop~ would b~ broadcast gave you would a\ltomatically for- · citizens fr6m beaches for violat- live, and you could phone in ad- ward your call to h.er real number. ing the \public ugliness\ otdi- vice to the Pursuing cops. Or to the 2. Nodding and looking at your n:ahce. crooks~ · watch wouldbedeemedanaccept- 14. Tank:swouldbefareasiertp 22. Two words: ALly McNaked; able response to \I love you~\ rent. 23. Regfs ~d KatltieLee would 3. Hallmark would make 15. Gl;ll!bage_ would ta!ce itself be chaip.edtp a cernentmixer and \Sorry what wa~ your name out. pushed.offthe Gold~JiGateBridge again?'' cards. e . l6.1nste~dpf~eer~elly,~QU'd, for:tJl~, ll:l9S~ JU9f~tiv~~p.ay-per- 4. When your girlfriend really get \beer ~iceps.') · . ·. '·' · · · ' .- ·· 'view· event m world history~ needed to talk to you during the 17. Instr-:~c.\;of ~ e~pensive ~n- ·44. The victors in. any athletic game, she'd appear in a little box gagementrmg, you could present· comp~tition would get to kill and in the. '10fl1<?~ Qftb;e screen..cl\lfipg . yo:ur ._wif.e 7 to.-;\J>~:witn agiantfo~. ~at_ tlte·lQsers; a time-out.~· ~ ... ~ ' . '.r:; : · ltahdtbat.safd~ ~~~ou're #1!;~ : .. ; .··z§; The only show opposite 5 .. :{3teaking up .wo11ld be,~;Ipt J~. Val~n~ip~'s .. J?ay, WP~lc.!JJe : ~~nday_Nj~ht Fo~t~all wJmld be easier. :A .smack tC:> tlte ass:iilid' a ·moved to February '29th stdt Monday·Night · f. • · 1 'Nice hustle, yo:u-' ll.get 'em next would ~n)y occur. in_le~p yea111. · _ Fo9tball frofll ~ D!:ff~rent Cam- time\ would preiiy much do it: t · • 19. oh. dirundhog Day;lf you ·era Ari~I6.··_,. ·• ·- :. · ,f. .1 :· · D 6. Birth coiltrol would come in saw your sb.adow, you'd get the 26. It would be :perfec;;tly legal ale or lager. day off to go drinking. Mother's to steal a sports car,.as long as you year. 28. When a cop gave you a ticket, every smart-aleck answer you responded with would actu- ally reduce your fine. As in: Cop: ''You know how fast you were going?\ You: \All Ik:now is, I was spilling my beer all over the place.' 1 Cop: ;'Nice one. That's $10 off.'' 29. Faucets would run \Hot ''Cold,\ and \100 proof.\· 30. The StatueofLiberty would get a bright red, 40•foot thong. 3l. People would never talk about how fresh they felt. 32. Daisy Duke shorts would never again go out of style. 33. Telephones wollldautomati· cally cut off after J()· seconds of conversation. I WI of of fe th Wi as fe th lo sa ar .sc iti re UJ it tl

Features QI:m.uar.bbniiii~ ·NovemberS, 1998 ·Page 11 Matty G's World Professor Profile: An In Depth look at Uni,on's Educators by Matt Gendro:n Stfljf Writer . DUTCH: Chicken Fajita $2.65 Cheeseburger $2.09 McDonal<ls:Chicken Fajita$1.19 (;heesebu.rger $. 79 1 had a talk wi* an upper-level worker at Dutch Hollow a couple of weeks ago concemingthe prices of items on the menu~ and how I felt that students were paying through the teeth._ This gentleman was kind, and went thro~gh many .aspects of the service that they of- fer to the campus, as well11s ·how they keep prices competitive with local food vendors. In the end, he said that they do prod:uce a profit, and that money goes back to the .school; and eventually keeps tu- ition down by giv:~g the school revenue. wen:. maybe its just me, but.go- ing to Dutch for a meal once in a while is a nice change of pace. Sure, it's not the feed~ bag like Up- per Class, but if yoll.'re not that hungry or looking _for every op- tion, it's not a bad place to stop by. Of course that is, if you have money. Val-a-dine is a funny thing. No one seems to notice it until it is gone, and then for most, it goes quickly. One reason for this $200's rapid disappearance is the fact that food on this campus, . be it at the G•store or Dutch, or . ----------------- came quite intriguing when I asked Schenectady rather than the other even the vending machines, is . ~y Kevin Carter . Jenkins, if he could, what would wayar()und. This segment ofthe high-priced. Staj{Member be change about Union College. interview was concluded with I see this as a result of two He said that he weuld relocate it JenkiDsproclaiming, \I'm a Doid, things. Supply and Demand and Whatbetter way to christen the to, most likely, the West Coast of and Pm proud of it!\ the Screw Factor. First, there is . Professor Profile column, tllan Ireland. .., Whe11 asked who his inspira- no competition for these sources . , with\\Professor Hugh Jenkins oftfle Next, he said, \I'd put books in tions are, he said his Dad (because of food on campus, and the Unio~ English departnlent? I had entered the Library ... I'd also pasture he \.Vas also an English professor), student is lazy, he will take the • Jenkins' cffice hoping to discov-tr Eugene Debbs because of his so- mostconvenientsourceoffood. In what made him tick and when J ,;-o-------'---------. ciaiist philosophy, and finally a natural env.ironment, paying $3 left, I was pleased, if not arnu~e~. , · Unioll' sown Professor Frazier for for .a drink (those new smoothies) . at the infonnation I had obtained:. , , It's was a his coarage, his principles and his · would seem .excessive. The sec• . tom him. scotc.h. ond factor ;applies more to a gen.:· .. He began by telling me tha1 he,· ·tr·Ue ll .. b. ·e..,n/ As this interview came to an e.ralsenseofthe campus. Itseems ·. had graduated in 1981 frtnn; ' R end,] asked Jenkins ifhe had any t() me that most aspects of this . · Carlton College in Minnescta.: . . • !'ast co111ments. He responded, \I Can_tPUS were designed to ~trip the . Whi'l~ at college he majored in •. arts e d uc atlO n want tc hear more Billy Brague Umon students of every dun~ th<.tt Classtcs. When asked to comment' and Fe li,x Mendleson on campus . they h&ve. No matter how sctu- · on this field of study, Jenkins r:e- 1 • d l t 1 # .. I also wantto see a 'Democracy pulous the system or administra- pliedwitb.asmirkonhisface,''It's:. 'an . a 0 OJ Wall' from th.e Nott to the Cam- tor, ifseems that every decision en • was a true liberal arts education:, pus <:eater for students to post this campus is .made to make life · and a lot of fun. Now I can read: . fiun. •• '' their political commentary and tougher for the students~ or to take inscriptions on gravestones.\ · · poetry.\ money out of their pockets. For Five years after graduating fi()m: Fi11aUy he explained that he example, how much do Bookstore Carl~on, Jenkins began gradllate would like the city ofSchenectady books cost when ordered from · school at Cornell where lle animals on the quad, Every stu- to ;J>lace a lien on General Amazon. com. Not as much as you achieved an English P .H.D in dent and professor would' llave an Electric's buildings stating that if might think. The list goes on and . I 987. animalto tend as well as agarden.\ GE ',;¥ere to leave, the city would on. Here are a few examples: how Althot~gh Jenkins' five-year He explained that Union would tben sei.ze ~e factories, operate much does it cost to repaint a 4' . span between schools is shrouded therefore be able to provide food tbem, and sbow that they can in by 4., area on a wall (about-$50 per · in mystery, rumor has it that :be for itself; the idea of tending a gar- fact be J>rofitable. student in the room?!), or how · s11pposedly .sat in on some tar- <len being an allusion to Voltaire's \Vith that, my interview with about the library's tactics?! Then monica solos for Bob Dylan. As Candide. Finally, Jenkins com- Hugh Jenkins came to a close. Be how about $30+ thousand for tu- he said, \'The rest is history.\ mented tllat he would builda moat on tlte watch for further professor ition. It just all gets to me. At this Jloint, the interview be- around Union to kee Union from rofiles. If you can't be one ·of Santa's Helpers this Holiday Season ••• BE ONE OF OURS! I ·.!~'¢. I ~ United Parcel Service United Parcel Service is curre~tly accepting employffient applications for the Holiday Season. Positions are now available for Driver's Helper's, during X-Mas Break. For additional informa1ion and application arrangement contact: Judi Gordon's Office . . Career Development Center, 3rd Floor Interviews will be conducted Tuesday Nov. 1Oth UPS is an Equal Opportunity Employer (MIF}

Favorite Authors The Cats Meow by Portia Zwicker Sttlj{Writer had a copy of All Creatures Great Livingi:n Yorkshire,.Heni'3t (who and Small, by James Hertiot,. in actually is 'the main cha.r!lcter, by Spencer Cluistie Staff Writer their bookshelf. Since I used to James) writes fantastic de~;c:rip· . On Tuesday, Oct()ber 21, the watch the PBS productions of the tions of tile landscape: \The: wall fihned stage version <>fthe Bmad- Have you ever disco'Vered an various stories in this novel, I de- skirted the hill's edge an~ as r way show Cats was released na- author you really liked alli9 read all cided I shou'ld read the bo()k they }()oked acr~ss and away tQt w~re tionally. OnNovetnber2, this ver• of his or her works over l()ne sum- were based on. It is now one of my Darrow by huddled far hel<()\N be- sionwillairon PBS forthe first time, mer? I did that the surnnu~rtOf'93.l favorite novels. I wanted to read tween its folding green fells the reaching what is e~ected t() be read almost all of MJchael -rnorebyHerriot,butmymomsaid wind thuntl-eredin my ears.\'' Or, oneofthestation'slargest.ratings Crichton's novels, asdi<lmany of she didn't think he had written \The brilliaJlt green of the walled ever. The show, credited with the my friends. anything else. So, I was pretty sad. pastures pashed up the sides of title of \Now and Forever\ by its· My father had reul' J1.1ra.ssic But, while working in my high tlte fells until the heather a11.d the public relations dep<lrtment, will Park, and when he hea:t:tl it was school's library over the summer, 1 liarsh mo<Jr grass began, an!l only · have the opportunity to reach an going to be a movie he.sm.:ggested made a fantastic discovery. While tile endl~ss pattern of walls was audience that cannot see either the I read it. So, my bestfiiead and I making sure all the books (yes., left, climbing totheroottled sum- company onBroadwayorthevari:.. both obtained copies amd ~ed every single one) were in order mits,. disapJJearing over the; bare ous touring companies .in the US reading. I can remember sitting in Dewy-Decimally; I came upon sev- tidges that marked the begi 11 ning and abroad. . the dimly lit theater wit111Ier and eral more books by Herriot:. All ofthe wilcfcollntry .\ · · Cats is the longest running my father, trying to readb~fore the Things Bright and Beautiful, ,A11 It's Herriot' s.amazing skill m. de- Broadway play ever as last year it previews started. Wewe:ren't fm- Things Wise and WonderfUl, me scr:ibingaloongwiththe amomntof · surpassedA Chorus Line forthat ished reading, but our dJsession Lord God Made Them All, and Ev- arnuseme-l1t h:e. can provide trom honor. Although the show is now with the movie prompte<l us to ery Living Thing. If these name:s his tales ofbeing a veterillarian · considered something of a less spend every next wak:i!lg minute sound familiar, that'sbecause tltey tltat make me keep turnin;g the . than mediocre production, it was· reading the noveluntilvve finished. were made into a Christmas song pages. F()r ]nstance, James meets , at one point the hottest ticket in After J2trassic Park, itVI!I.S Sphere, titled \All Things Bright and Beau- various crazy c:haracters through~ town. When the show opened in Congo, Rising Sun, Al1:.dl'()meda tiful\ that goes like this: out is career. There' 8 the -wo0man 1980, it was an unbelievable sue- Strain, Terminal Man~ 11n<l Trav- All things bright and beautiful, who insi:;ts tb.at lle write lett~rs to · cess, as it won the Tony fot best e/s. My best friend and lrea<l all of All creatures great small her dQg !lnd attend parties 'ikosted new musical and a Tony for Betty those Crichton novels 10ver that All things wise and wonderful, by her dog. And then til ere's Buckley as Grizabella, the glamour summer. It was all Cric:hton had The Lord God made them all. Harold lllgleclew. \Every ~turday cat. The original BToadway cast written (besides his: no111fiction These five novels (there could night anctevery market nigltihe's held tlte ~'big l;>reak'' for many of works and Eaters oftlreD<!!ad) that be more) are all one long s~ory • up roarin; and singin' till four today's leading ladies and g(!nts: we knew about. the story about a veterinarian liv- o'clock inthe nornin'.\ Terrence Mann {Beauty and the I'msurewe~veallhCld tlu expe- ing in Yorkshire, England. Jame:s This collling summer (or even Beast, Rags, Scari<Jt Pimpernel), rience offinding a favoriie; a lith or, first comes toy orkshire in All Creer- over w~t-er break), if you're i:Jored Harry Gr.oener (Crazy For You, Is reading all that he or she ltas writ- tures Great and Small, looking fO't orllave fr-ee time, pickup a (OPY of There Life After High School?), ten, and then lapsing in,'too a. d~pres- an internship with a veterinariail. All Creatzlres Great and s~qll. It Kenneth Ard (Smakey Joe's Cafe, sion becatJse you've rea<i every- He has an interview with Siegfried reqllires n:Jl- analyzing ot ·deep Street. Corner., Sy1nphony), ~and thingandthere'snothinllile:ft. Well, and gets the job. He moves into thinking. T\here aren't any meta- Buckley(Carrie, Tri21mph ofLove, maybe not a .depressioll, but a the house/veterinary office, a 11 d phors to ponder over(well; lclidn't Sunset .Blvcl.) Over the years, how- deep disappointment. lt\s even starts assisting Siegfried, along flnd any} n()r symbols to discuss. ever, the lack of a pl<>t and the up- worse when the author is 110 longer with Siegfried's younger brotlter, Perhaps, you \II ·enjoy it md then rise of the \smart\ musical has led alive, because tltenyol! ktlowthere Tristan (Siegfried and Tristan':s go on to read the rest of:Iferriot•s· the critics to pan the show tllat will never be anymore to c()rne. parents named them after charac- novels,. as I am doing and .as I did- they have ll:ever found worthy ofa Thispastsummerihaliarepeat ters from Wagner's operas). Anc:l withCriciltonin'93. Broadwayhome. Catsdoesseem .;;.o.;:...ft.;.;;;h:.;:e-=s:.::wn=m==-e:::r...::o::.:.f_'.:::;93::.:·=:=:=:=:-~~~~~s~tart~s~~.!:!th~e~re:::.:. _________________ _J to be fmancially sect1re as tourists THE RETROSPE . C know and trust the show to give . · . • .. · . TI\'E them a taste of Broadway that will CONT fully entertain them. . IN'UE S This film version stars Elaine Page as Grizabella, and has both by Kenny Scott .... John Mills and Ken Page repeat- ing their original Broadway .roles. While the direction and choreog- raphy are first rate and a marvel to watch, the show lacks a plot and all of the .songs seem to endlessly repeat one main structure that be- comes almost unbean!ble to hear aftertwo and ahalfh~urs. I must admit that I neither like the animal or Old Possum 's Book o[Practic(l/ Cats by T.S. Eliot, the book on which the play was based, so my opinion may he biased. I found theplaytohe boring, too long, t()O repetitive, and too melodramatic. The lack of a plot make it hard to relate the vignettes of individual cats into a comprehensive piece of art. I liked the perfonnanceofElaine Page but would prefer to listen to Betty Buckley any day. I liked the song \Jellicle Songs For Jellicle Cats\ because it is the first song heard by th:e audience and watch- ing the company appear in charac- ter was realistic and fascinating. \Mr. Mistoffelees\ had som.e nice harmonies added to it and the ap- pearance of an Elvis like figure, as is so common in Lloyd Webber show's these day$, actually iight- ened the mood and made for a high point to the show. \Memory\ is the best known song from the show anditisnothard to see why. It is the only song in the show that seems original and is written with beautiful lyrics. Ela.ipe Page does the song justice and has a nice touch of her own, but Betty Buckley made a career out of the song and will probably n~ver ~e · touched as the best Grizabella eve~. The >tape is an amusing fmd for any musical theatre lover. The staging and choreography are complex and iiitri~ate, making the video watchable. However, ifyou do decide to watch it, you may want to tum the volume off so that you can enjoy it. , OUR FINAL ISSUE by Debbie Fellish A&E EdittJr Well, here it is ... the find issue ~f Arts and Entertainment of falltenn. As all of you who loyally read the A&E section probably know, next term good ole Lori Greene and Kim- berly Rohback will resume their positions as editorsofthe Arts and Entertainment section. Colleen and I will be void ofour A&Eresponsi- bilities, and this se::ction will no longer be o11r baby. Before we say our fmal farewells to all of yoll, I feel the need to ac- .knowledge those staff and contrib- uting writers who all diligently wrote articles forus, and helped to fillthis section with loads of interesting reviews, profiles, aod stories that entertained us each 'Week. Deric Harrington, Spencer Christie, Portia Zwicker, Lisa Blaustein, co-editor Colleen Brown, -- photograpller Kenny Scott, Holly Burnside, Betsy Fekin, Katie Aspnes, and many others who I apologize for forgetting.~. have dili- gently wrote for this section and made it a successful, artistic, and fun section to read. Thanks t~ all of you for your hard work and cre- ativity! Andnow ... myfmal poem of the term .... As we all know, the end is near And soon vacation will be here We'll all go home and watch TV Howard Stem will be our A&E Make sure you don't forget to go to movies, plays, and other shows There's always something fun to do when people come perform for you When you return to good ole U You' 11 fmd something that's brand new .. Debbie and Colleen will not be 'rouna But Kim and Lori will be found ... Back at Union with all the new Reviews, attractions, and things to do They'll recapture A&E from Colleen and me And continue Ple Arts and Entertainment history!! ! a tl n S1 p y y e tl c v p l 1 p u s t (,: r s ( ' L I c (

Arts & Entertainment 0Imttl1rhleusie • November 5, 1998 • Page 13 Union's Meta~orphosis Mania r;rrain Rides into Upstate New York by Colleen Brown A:&E Editor So, you're telling me that you still haven't seen this fall's perfonn110ce ~of Metamorphosis? Don't worry, you still have three more opportu- nities to view the show. Our open- ing day was October 28, but Union college is fortunate enough to do an eight day nm, Show elates .are October 28-31 and November 4-7. This me~s that if you have n<:>thing to do to.: night or during the weekend, come see your peers and fellow students .perfonn in Metamorphosis Even if you have plans for this weekend, you can add this monumental event into your weekend reper- toire ... or you can just simply change your previously scheduled weekend plans and come see this production anyway. not worth missing. Gregor's par- ents are played by Union students Ari Gottlieb and Devon Ciampa, while Maura Wittbold performs as Greta, Gregor'syoungersister. The three lodgers, ErinZaricki, Amanda Diamonstein, andLiam Joynt, have been extreiilely amusing characters to the audience inthe .p~t, .and I'm sure that their talented perfor- mances will,entertain you.as well. Our own assistant director Eric Wis<:>tzky, shows us a powerful chief clerk. Since this show is already up and running, I can tell you what that the audience tends to give Meta- morpho#s quite. popular reviews. Metamorphosis is highly a move-- ment piecethatcat<;hes the college- aged student's eye. Every image throughout this production is so crisp and clear. show cometogether. That with tile by Betsy Pekin Contributing Writer combination of John Miller's . On Friday, October 30, the up·· (Technical Director) spectacular . · state New York area received a de .. lightening creates the perfect irn...; Iightful visit from one of the most agefortltisplay. , talented up and coming bands, If yoa have heard of any mern- .. Train. The band, Sub Atomic Ge- bers of the cast that I .have men- . · nius opened up for Train in the tioned earlier,. then you already WX:LE 104.5 show at Northern know whattalent there is. Througll . Lights in Clifton Park. The concert many weeksofrehearsaland now · started off with a pre-show listener shows,. the cast has really t:'qrne<i • appreciation p~ sponsored by themselves into an ensemble. Y()lll . WXLE where Train treated the will see how they allrea1ly conriect guests to a special,,private concert. on stage, which is essential in a Afterwards, the band graciously piece s11ch as this. · met the audience and signed auto- So, d() yourselves a favor md · graphs. This personal relationship come see .Metamorphosis tltis · with fans is extremely impressive weekend. The show will stilllle · · considering the band's current sta- playingonNovember5,6,and 7. 'tus as number 34 on Billboard's AftertheFriday,November6,per- :Monitor Radio chart from their fonnance, }'()U can also stay md · . single Free. see some of the cast and other tal:- . · Success h&S come pretty quickly entedUnionstudentsperforrn ina ··to the San Francisco-based band. late night Cabaret, hosted by tlle .. They started to get r~dio air time student-run theatre group, Mo11n- . about nine months ago in the bay tebanks. ·. · area and their sounds instantly So, I hope to see you at Meta- began to spread ~ast. With a slew morphosisthisweekend .. .itwilllJe · of musical influences, such. as worth younvhile!!! . Whisky Town, Grant Lee :Buffalo, ---..--....,.,...._,..----------------------------------...._--...._----....---~~------ Led Zeppelin and Jazz, the music This talented cast of theatrical Union students includes Josh Taub, who has been playing the partofGregorSainsa. His reillistic image of a beetle is a perfonnance At times it is almost mesmeriz- ing to watch. Sound in this show is vital; thanks to our sound coor- dinator/musician Deric Hanington and Director William Finlay, the noise in this piece makes the entire Jazz Ensemble Performs ambiance ofTrain is similar to clas- . sic ~ock and ro 11 with a softer edge that hints of Counting Crows. \VXLE picked up the band about by Holly Burnside StaffWriter The Union CoHege Jazz En- semble perfonned last Friday, Oc- tober 3'0, in the campus center au- ditorium. Professor Tim Olsen di- recU~d the Jazz Ensemble, and played the keyboard and the trum- pet. The show featured speCial guest composer/percussionist Ray Kaczynski. violent sound that perfectly drew up the .image of a \Fighting Tango.\ They ended the first set with a ren- dition of On Broadway, in which listeners could hear great sounds from the bass,. trumpets, and key- boards. Listening; to the Jazz Ensemble~ six months ago and received posi .. it's easy to see that to play ja~ · tive feedback from the listeners. In one must know a lot about music fact, one listener in particular was to be able 1() sound good to the extremely excited to hear Train on audience. Improvisation is a majol' the local radio: Scott Underwood's part of jazz music ancl any 011e · sister. It turns out that Scott, playe~ can be put on the spot with Train's drummer, is a native of little 'a<lvan<:e notice. Jazz mnsi- · Saratoga Springs~ Scott has en- . cian~~~ave -~ kllow no~ to bl~nd joyed being famous in hjs home- with e~ch other. town area of the Capitorregion. \I The Department of Performmg have fmally become legitimate te my family. Previously it had been hard to explain to my family that I was a musician,\ he stated. Al- though they will not officially cite one event as their big break, Pat Monahan discussed many break- throughs for the band, \We have breakthroughs every six months. Sometimes it is personal, others it is musical. It could be a record deal or making the record.\ Therefore, these personal and professional accomplishments keep them play- ing day after day. Another set ()f local musicians got to play for their fans, the pro- gressive alternative band Sub Atomic Genius. With a voice remi- niscent ofEddie Vedder's, the band entertained the crowd for over 45 minutes. My favorite song,. Ride On, was a combination of aggres- sive rock with a mellow chorus. Then Traincarneon stage and ex- cited the audience by opening with their best song,. JfYou Leave. Play- ing a mix of songs from their self- titled debut album, produced by Aware Records,. and some new songs, they enthralled the crowd for well over anbour. This concert gave Train tl1e great opportunity to show off t:heir breakaway hit Free and introduce their next single Meet Virginia. One of the better moments of the show was when they played an inspired rendition of I Am, where the crowd rhythmi- cally danced and sang along. Overall, the band showed lots of energy and respect for the fans and put on a terrific show. Look for a Train show near you, as they will continue t.o prolUot~ their album and make themselves increasingly famous. The first set induded songs such as Our Love Is Hereto Stay, a Gershwin tune, which featured Susie Olsen on vocals; and a com- position of guest Ray Kaczynski called, The Fighting Tango. This one was an expressive, innovative song that highlighted the percus- sion and relied heavily on improvi- sation from the ensemble, where each musician was playing his Qr her own melody arthe same time. The result of this was a confused, Aftera briefintennission, a small group perfonned, consisting ofTirn Olsen on keyboard and trumpet, Ray Jung on bass, and Ray Kaczynski on percussion. At one point, Kaczynski rearranged the drum set, substituting pots and pans for real instruments. This pro- vided an almost comical mix of sounds that, along with trumpet sounds :from Olsen, added up to an eccentric, new-sounding, jazzy kind of piece. 'In honor of Hallow .. een, the final number of the evening was Satan Takes a Holiday, with Susie Olsen on vocals again. The vibraphone provided this tune with a ghost-like, haunted-house kind of sound. Arts is putting on Metamorphosi::s in the Yulman Theater this weet, Novernber4-7 at8:00PM. Satur- day, November 7, istheUnion Cd- lege Orchestra concert, also di- rected by Professor Tim Olsen fo1 this term. And fmally the Uniorn College Ch()ir, conducted by PrO'- fessor Dianne McMullen, will have their concert on Monday, Novem • ber9, at 7:00PM. The performin~ arts department is a great way fOtr Union stucloents to go out and ~et some c-ult11re without having t() leave camp-us! The band Train smiles for a group picture. RITE AID PHOTO PROCESSING Go to RITE AID, for All of Your Photo Needs RITE AID is located .. on: Van Vranken Avenue (518) 382-3304

Page 14 • Novem'ber 5, 1998 • <!Il'rn.cnr.biensi!£1 Firral Exam Schedule = MSCHEDULE . FALL 1998 MONDAY 2 NOVEMBER 16 1 1998- 9:30-ll :3() AM GER*012'-'0I AAH*O!I*OI lntro· Art History - 1 Young,M. ARTS 215 Basic German3 Harnm,EIIsani, K STl;H 106 AMU*021*01 Beethoven to Bernstein M.cMullen, D. ARTS 210 GER*I20*0l Intennediate Gennan 1 Hr!mm-Eilsani, K STZ:H :JO() ANT*Ol4\'01 Langt1age & Culture Brison, K. SSCJ 112 . HST*040\0 I The Crusades Sarge1ll, S. SSCI 1\)4 810*010*02 Hercd:IEvolfEcology w/Lab Flei~hman, L. BAIL 207 LA1*l3Ql<UI C.:atullus & Horace Ba:lot, R. HUNNJ 13 BI0'-'025*01 Mole()ll]ar Bio of Cell w/Lab Lauzon. R HUMNOI· MER*043*(! I Advanced Mechanics w/Lab Keat, \YD. NWSE222 B!O* 153*01 Plant Bialogy w/Lab Rice, S. HUMNCJI. MTH*05&*01 Appls of Math to Eco 1 Reynolds. P. BAit :201 CER* 1.42*01 SoiJ:Mechanics w/Lab Ghal~.A. BUTR 300 PHL*022~'01 Science & Eviqence Wom~~'k.. C. HUMN II~ CHM*l42~01 Chem. Instmm. w/Lab Wemer,T STZH 106 PHL*064~'fll Issues i11 Amerkan Educ. LttdwigiWeiner ARTS. 215 CHN*OIO*Ol Basic C hh1ese I Feng. JP. SSCI 213 PHY>~<049*01 Laser Tech/Mod. Opt w/Lal1 NewmMl, J. NW.SE 114 ECO*Ol2*0~ Introduction to Economics McCarty. T. SSCil03 . PSC* 08Jl<()J Issues in Ameri.can Edu LudwigiWeiner ARTS: .215 EC0*012*03 Introduction to Economics Yaisawamg,S. ARTS 109 PSY*024\'Gl Social' Psychology DeBono, K BAIL Jil2 EER*(:)51*01 Prob & Digital Comm Spin.::IIi. J. NWSE~IO .RUS\'I20*01 I ritermediate Russ i~n .J Jordm1, . .B. HUI\1N 119 EGL*024*02 Mujrn Amer. Authors 2 Slade, L NWSE 114 . SOC*052\'01 lssues:in Ame11icanEduc. Lttd~vig.JW einer ARTS 215 ENS*033*tH Energy I Slmm.:brook. J NWSE 2:22 soc•l28*0J Sociology ofMedicin10: Goldner, NWSE 1.J6 FRN*Ol2*01 BasicFr~nch 3 Batson, C OLJN307 SPN*01 ~''01 Basic Span.ish 3 lzuri~a. L OU]'I206 GEO*l)21 *0 I Strot Dep Env of E. NY Garwr, J. I OLIN332 ' GRK*OIO*Ol Principles ofGreek I Mace. S. HUMN 113 TUESD:<\\'\ 1 NOVEMBER 17 1 1998-:- 4:.30~6:30PM GRK*l20*01 Attic Prose Toher, M HUMN2l3 CSC*OIO*Ol, 02 Computers & Computing Almstead, L HUMl'-1114 HST*O 19*0 I Amer.B/wthe World Wars Hetuy, S. SSCI !04 CSC*OI 0\'03 04 Cornputers & Computing H~t .. 1ay.D. HUt\1N 117 HST*055*01 Rise & Fall of Soviet Union Berl<, S. HUMN 11 HST*066*01 Modem East Asia Madancy,J. OLIN 106 WEDNESDAY 1 NOVEMBER 18 1 1998-9:30-ll :30AM LA T*OIO*Ol Principles ofLatin 1 Sl·ull ion. J S. SSCI 110 ACC*Oll\'(} I Inwme Tux Accounting Neide1meyer, P. HUNNII4 MER\164*01 Solar Egy. Anal.& Design Wilk. R. NWSE 205 Bl0*067*01 Bio:Health & fitness w/Lab Crawford. A. W. BAIL .2lll MLP022*01 Min. Cultums/l.it'Spain lzttricta, I. BAIL 102 . CER*02'1\'01 Elementary Surveying ,~(Lab W()lte,FA BUTR300 MTH*054*01 Numb~rThem)· Zimmermann, I< BU'l\R 109 CIIM*OB*OI AI' Chemistry w/Lab C<mo:ll, 114. I NWSE ll4 PHL*O 11 *OJ AnCient J>J1ilosophy S..:hro<Jdcr. B.S. BUMN II' CSC*.037*01 Structured l'rogramming (ire~n, E. A. HUNINOI4 PHY*014*01 Fr.:shman Seminar Staff NWSE 328 EC0*041*0J Micmeconomic Analysis Reyn~lds. B. SSCI: ()12 PHY*OI&*OI Geneml Plwsics 2 w/Lab Surman, R.A. NWSE 304 ECO*I44*01 Internatkmal Economics Ml1ti:11UlJ, E. HUNN019 PHY*050*0! Elect Ionic Projects w/Lah Jones. C. NWSE 303. EGL*036A*OJ Black Music in Amer. Lit J>a-vlic, E. HUMNTJ2 l'S Y*O Jo·~o 1 lntro tCl J>sycholng) Stanhope, L BAIL 312 · HST*I53•0J Nazi Science. Tech. & Med Walker,l\.11 SSCI <ll4 PSY*03U*O 1 Personalit)' VanSiyck. M. BAIL 300 . MTH*J3()*0.I Real Variable Theory 1 Hart :T..E. BAlL JD4 RUS*OIO*lll BasicRu>:sian I Jordan. B. OLIN 211 PSC*032*01 Amer Polit. Tll11. to WWI Bro.wn, C. SSCI 104 SOC*O I 0* 03 lnlro It) Sociolog) Go1Jnl!r. M IIUMN 1IC: l'SC*051 *0 I American Foreign P.olicy Lobe, T. SSCI 112 · PS'\'*042*01 J>sych. Testing/AssrilL Rubo.nis. A. BAIL 1'06 MONDAY.NOVEMBER 16, 1998-1:30-,3:30PI\'I PSY>~<062\'01 Pract icu m i 11 Human Rd. I Dmdin:g, T. BAil JDO BIO*OlO*OI Hemd/fvoi/Ecol. w/l~ab Boyer, B B/\11.107 · SOC*O I o~o I lntro to SClciolngy Huggin:s, M. SSCI 103 810*032*0 I ComJl V~rL Anat. w/Lab Bultt!rstcin, G. BAIL ~01 SPN*I~O>i'Q~ lntenncdiatc Spanish 1 GRrci~, W SSCI ()J 4 CER*033*01 Fluid iVlcchanil:s w/l.nh Jewell. T BUTR 300 SI'N*I~O>i'03 .lntennediate Span ish I Garcia, W SSCI 014 EC0*011*Ul lntrndtl-ction to tconomks Yai~uwttrng. S. SSCJ 103 WST*ll I t)*O I G~ndcr & SocThry. & Lit Mitch.:~!. C. A. JllJfv1N 116 EC0*03~*01 l.abt)r& Ind. Rdations Prosper. 1'. SSCJ 112 l'CO*J45*01 Managerial Economics Kennt!y. J. STZH 106 WEDNESDAY 2 NOVEMBER 18, 1998-:-1:30-3:30 PM EER *0113*() 1 DesgnofElec. Circ w/l.ab Hassib, E. NWSE 210 MTH*O I 0*0 I C~kulus l Zwicker, W. BAlL 207 FSC*02l*Ol Mcdiilnics I w/Lnh Bucinell. R NWSE 205 MTH*O 1()*02 Calcuhts 1 Zwicl<eT, W. BAIL 207 fRN*OlO*Ol flasicFrench I VanD.:ventcr.S OLIN 107 MTI I*O I 0~03 Cnlculus I Barbanel. J. sso 104 GEO*OIO*OI Physkal Geology w/Lah HClllocher. K. ... OUN .102 MTI'I*O 1()*04 Calculus 1 Barbancl. J. SSCI 104 GER*0\0*1'1 BasicG~rman I Warde .• -\. HliMN 11 MTH*(HJ A*01 Calculus with Precalc 1 Roser1thal, K. BAIL '100 HST*043*1JI Eur. in the Early Mod. Era llansen, E sscr 104 MTII*O II A *02 Calculus with Precalc I Rey.n\ll<ls. P. OLEN 107 IMI'~Oli*OI lnt fl.1ath!Pil\sic~ I 11/Lah Khosropour/ MTH*OIVOI AP Calculus Taylor. A HUl\fN 0!9 Joht1son NWSE II~ MTH*OI3*02 AP Calculus Tiiylor. A. HU!\fNOI':I IMP*011 *02 lnt Jvluth/Physics I \1/l.ab Khosropour/ MTH*OI3*03 AP Calculus N~etitJid. S. HUi\fN014 JohliSOn NWSE 116 MTH*O 13*0-l AP Calculus Cervon.,, D.P. BAIL 102 .IPN*I30*01 Adv Intermediate Japanese Wojno\'ich. M. HUMN II MTH*OB*D5 AP Calctilus Harl, J. E. BAIL 104 MTll*OI5*01 Calculus 3 Cervone, D.P HUMN OJ .· MTI·I*0lJC)''01 lntro:l.ogic & Silt Theory Zlllli. L. BAil'. 201 MTH~O 15*~12 Co !culm 3 Harbanel. J BAIL 102 MTI 1*09[)*02 lntrQ:Logic & Set Them) Zulli, L BAIL 201 PHY*OI5*(J 1 Phys ics/1. il'e Sci I w/l.ab Schick. K. NWSE 114 PSC*Oll *02 lntro h> American l'olitics O·dey,Z. HUMN 117 THllRSDAY 2 NOVEMBER 19 1 1998-9:30-11:30 AM PSY*Ol0*02 lntro to l's}chology Donaldson, G. ARTS 109 BI0*164~01 Animal Behavior Brown. G. STZII I 06 PSY*020*01 Statistical Methods/Psych. Greenberg. S BAIL 106 CER*I29*{)1 Analysis&. Design of Struct. M~li.M. B1HR lOY PSY*015*0 I Exper.imental Psych 1v/l.ab Burns, D J. BAIL300 CLS*032\'01 Religion in the Pagan World Scullin.Il, .1. S. HUM}! 110 PSY*036*01 Psyclmlogy or I .earning DAndrea, T. BAIL312 CLS*046*0J Sex/Gender-Classical Antiq. Balt)t, R HUM}! 119 SOC*060*01 Quant Social Research Cll(ter, D. OLIN 106 EC0*042'*l•2 Macro Theof) & Policy M otahar, E. sscr 01 2 SPN*O I 0*01 Basic Sp11nish I Marti nt!?:. V. I!UI'v1N I P EC0*043*() I lntro to E~onometrics Ocll:o; llmn, P. OL.nll HI SPN*I21*01 lntcrruediate Spanish 2 Mosqucnt D. HUMN II ECO*I5.J'*()J Economics ofl-kalth Lambrin()s, .l. HUtvfN 11:2 EG 1.*024 *0 l Major Amerka11 f\uthors 2 I'<! VI k. E. Hti'M N 117 MONDAY 2 NOVEMBER 16 1 1998-4:30-6:30 Pl\-1 EGL *065*0 1 Early Victorian Lit l':.trk, II BAil. 100 Egl*022*02 Major American Authors 1 Slude. L HUMN 11 GEO*O II'*() l Eanh. Life Thru Time w/Lab Branclriss., M. OLIN 332 . HST* 152 *tH French Revollltion Walker. M. SSCI 01 ·~ TUESDA\' 1 NOVEMBER 17 2 1998-9:30-ll :30 AM PllY*044*()2 lntro to Astrononty w/Lab J..:oopil~mtn. R. OLIN 106 BI0*046*0 I ln.tm tr> Psychobiolog) Weiss~. C Bt\11. 102 PSC*OI2*0 I lntro International Politics Brown, C SSCI .104 BIO*I !lO*OI RiocllCllliSil) \/Lab Saho, JL OLIN 204 l'SY*03l*O I i\hnorm'al Psychology RLiboni s, A. BAlL 106 CER*l50*GJ Hydrology \>.'/Lah Snow,!' BUTR !09 I'S Y*03.5*0 I Industrial/Organ. Psych Nydegg~r. R BAll. H2 CLS*02l*OI Hish~IY ofGreece Tohcr. M. HLIMN 115 SOC*OI0*02 lntro to Sociology Gt·igsb;•, J. HUMN 115 CLS*044*0J Poetry & the Cosmos Mace. S. llUMN 112 EC0*042*0l JY1acn \Th~!ory & Policy IMTerly.M. BAIL207 TI:IURSDA \\ 2 NOVEMBER 19 1 1998- I :30-3:30 Pl\1 ECO* 138~0.1 Quantitative Methods Tomljanovich, M HUMN 01. AAH*02t)*0 I Classical An&. Arcl1itecture Young_ M.S AR-J'S215 EER *0 18*0 I Digital Computers w/Lah Traver. C HUMN 01• CflM*O ID*Ol Fund Chemist!)• I \\/Lnb Scaife, c. OI.Iti 115 GE0*05.1*01 Carbonate Sediment. w/Lab Garver, J I. OLIN 307 CHM*OID*02 Fllnd Ch~rnistry I w/Lab 1/agennan, M. ot.m 115 HST*013*01 Histoty of US to Civil War Meade. T. SSC! 01~ CHM*010*03 Fllnd Ch~rnistr~' I wil .ab Scai lc. C. OI.JN:I15 HSPOI3*02 History of US to Civil War Stemgass. J. SSCI 103 CHM*010*04 Fund Ch~mistry I w/Lab Lou. K. OLii'-E 115 HST*Ol3*03 Histoty of US to Civil War Wells, R HlJMN 11 CHM*03D*01 Organic Chcm istJ)' 1 \'\'/Lab At1rian. J.C BlnL~ 204 HST*035*01. His!my ofEurope I Hnlliday, P. ARTS 215 CHM*03D*02 Organic Cheniistry I w/Lab llull, L. Bli\IR 204 HST*035*02 History ofEurope I Hansen, E. SSCI 104 JPN*OJOtoOI Basic Japt111csc I f.: han, \i OLI!Ii'i07 HST*035*03 History of Europe I Sargent. S. SSCI 112 .IPN*'120*lll Intermediate Japanese I • Khan, 't'. OUI\! 107 MER*062*01 Thennal Energy Conversion Wicks, F. NWSE 222 MTH*017*01 Calculus 4:lntegral Vector Zimmem1an, K. BAIL201 FRIDA \' 1 NOVEMBER20 2 1998-9:30-l1:30 Al\1 i PHY*016*01 Phys ics!Lil\e Sci. 2 w/Lab Topl)r,N. NWSE 114 ANT*O I Q.*Ol Cultural Anlhropolog Gmelch.G. SSCI 016 PHY~044*01 Intr().to Astronomy w/Lab Dunn, .1. NWSE 116 ANT*OJ(}*02 Cultural Anthropology Gtnelch,G. SSCI 016 PHY*l60\'01 Nuclear/Elementary Particle Dunn, J. NWSE 116 EGL *036E*Ol Afr.-AmerWom. Writers d~tford-Williams, T. HUfvlN 117 PSY*020*02 Statistical Methods/Psych. Morling, B. BAIL 106 ESC*025*01 Electric Circuits w/Lab Cflang, Y. NWS-E 116 PSY*025*02 Expetimenta1 Psych w/Lab Bums, D. J. BAIL 312 · ESC*025*0:2 Electric Circuits w/Lab Hassib~ E. NWSI: 114 PSY*038'~01 Developmental Psychology Stanhope, L BAIL300 · FRN*131*01 Survey of Fro;Jl'lch Lit. 1 Van OeventeF, S. Ol.ilt\1107 PSY'~'046*01 Intro to Psychobiology Weisse. C. BAIL 102 HEB*OIO'*OI Basic 1-k:hr\lw 1 t\lmog. M BAILWt' SPN*136\'01 In® SpanishAm<'f. Theater Garcia.W HLIMN II M ER*03()*0 I Dynamics of Systems wfLnb !~hera, 114. NWS I' 122 I'HL *012*0 I Reason & Ex~rieltcc l.ll<lwig, J. JllHfN 112 TUESDAY! NOVEMBER 17 1 1998- 1:30-3:30PM I•J·Il. *143*0 I Metaphysics. VI''Om!lCk, C. HU~fN 114 AMU*020*01 Challl to Mozart McMullen, D. ARTS 313 PSY*Ol\1*03 lntro to Psychology Spring, D. BAll- 312 ANT*043*01 Antlln>pology of Religion Leavitt, S. SSCI 112 ECO*OI2\'04 lnt[l)ductioo to Economics McCarty,T. SSCI 103 FRlDA \' 1 NOVEMBER 20 2 1998~ l :30-3c30 PM ECO*Oi2*05 fnt[l)dllction to Ecouomics Tornljimovich, .M. BAIL 104 AMU+OJI*OJ M~sic of.Biack. America Olsen. T. ARl'SZI5 ESC*021*02 Mectmnics I w/Lab Gremillion, P. NWSE 205 GE0*02i*() I Proc Geotn.lsurfGeo w/Lab Rcdbell, D. 0Llt-l332 fRN*I20•01 Intennediate French I Leamon, A. OLIN211 PHY* 0 17'*1> I General Physics I w!Lab l~eicl1, G. NW~Ii 116 FRN•149*01 French &. Francophone Lit B~ttson, C. OLIN 105 PHY*OI1*()2 General Physics ·t w/Lab Korop111ann, R. NWS.I~ 114

L ~ !./ \~ • r~o·,~l;t~ ~ . ... t ,... ... ~~ . kl 6 fll;:'\ . arllllt.n:rhi,u~:iiis • November 1998 • 15 • 'i\t\-l' .. f . -:;,·;'-' \:'~·· '\ -,~ ~ .: ~- . .-'\?';- ·u·'· ~-- .. \ . :~- - ' P. . . .•. ; 1\IIASTERCARD & VISA ACCEPTED Subs • Free Deliv~ry 372-3588 15~9 ~arrie S-t •. Sch 'dy Fish Fries · (1 Bl.ock :from Union .College) • • • ' • 1 • •• ' ' . . . - ·.. ' ,.\' . ' 22 O~x)Jee~ Mug Special Every Night: .ex.c~p~ Fri & Sun. · : ~:; .:·top tit - tam · · Buy Mug_ f'or $2 · Fill f\o~ $1.50 NFL & C.Q.IIege DIRECT TV Package 6 TV's Sh<:-~ing 6 Different GaiJ.J.es Open Sat..; & Sun. at Noon .. Specials ~uring Gam.es · _ · · Sat~ SU.n & Mon •· 4 $1 Pint Dra:fts & 20¢ Wings ' . . ·' . . )' .· The Pedestrian Cafe Make Great Christmas $ in Connecticut! If you can begin the firs · week ofl)ecember or earlier, award winning retail shop in New Ca,naan, CT is now accepting applications. $8-$9/hour, 37- 40 hour week. Call Ray for information at: Comer Union S.t.· & Nott Terrace 377~8278 SflOw (JtvfOtv fP •.• (Otttt 2ttftl5 tftt I Cappuccino ·Latte Mocha Java Hot Chocolate ' So11ps Salads Sandwi<hes ., Des!ierts Baked Gflods M·onday-Friday 11t~tn-11pm SAlij'RPAY. :N~6\fl 6pm-11pm PENNYWEIGHTS JEWELRY STORE (203) 966-3578 Thanks to the generosity of the f :~~ :·. Un=ion ?allege Community ~- , .• a!ld ·Dining Services ovek·1, ·-~·· and don Sincerely., ~ Los Distinguidos Hermanos de Phi Iota Alpha Fraternity Inc. ..... ......

-I Science & Technology. Science & Technology \ - - -·- - - ' \ . .. - \ . . . ANew Fin·ding ,Overturns a l)ogma by JordanP. Lippman Cmltributing Writer A- central dogma of neuro- science has been that the brain does not produce new neurons once development is coinplete. Research on the hippocampus, the section of the brain responsible for higher leaming and: memory, has shown that new neurons are gen- ~erated throughout the li-fe span. This finding has the potential to shatter the ground upon which neuroscience rests. If these results can be. repro- duced, we will have to change our assumption that our potential for learning is J·iinited from birth be- cause new neurons are formed every hour. These neurons are the raw materials needed to form new memories and expand our current understanding and knowledge base. It has been thought that it is wrong to cut opr;:!n human brains and experiment on the hippocam- pus. Why? The hippocampus plays a crucial role in the creation oflong-term memory by making associations between stimuli of dif~ ferent modalities. It is also respon- sible for the memories that shape our understanding of our self be- cause memory allows us to under~ stand that we have a past, a present, and a future. It is a good hypothesis that if there is a source of new neurons in the brain, the most likely candidate would be the hippocam- pus (a stru.cture crucial to the formati·on of long tern~ memories) even though theory has stated that new cells are not born in the brain because om skull constricts gt·owth. Therefore, the assumption was that we can not have constant growth of new neu- rons or our skull would burst from the pressure of more and more neu- rons expanding it beyond its size. Scientists must always question our assumptions and challenge our views by performing experiments that test the validity of proposi- tions about the nature of our world. Neurons were found to be divid- ing in thoe hippocampus in other specieg; 1 (rats), Humans have very similar b:rajJts to rats, so it seems logical ihat new neurons cangrow in ourbrai'rls too. The study dis- cussed in this article describes our old tl1eory tllat dictates that we are b<1n1 vritll all the neurons we. are e'\l.er g<Jing to h<we and that this is aJt 1.1dvantage because our · memorie:sl1ecome etched in neu- ronal s.irllctlll'e for a long time, without fading. We can think of mem ori~s;. that we have not thought ~f for I 0 to 15 years with.- out a pn1bleil1. Whmlodldng for new neurons, the first place scientists looked Fuel Cell Technology: Engines of the Future. by Jeffrey Ausfeld Stt~lT Writer h~t p~ocluct<l the cell can also be used to preb~at water before itcgets to the 1..-ater.b.eater. With the pre- heatin~ ()ption, the horne's over- all etl1cieiH:y is increased on top of the ah-eady more efficient use was the hippocampus he<;:ause lower rnammals show the highest concentration of 11ew neurons in that area. Scientists invo1ved.in this studyhadto waitforpeopleto die. The surgeons then had to nrsh over to the emergency room to geta hold ofthe · hippocampalfonnation within 24 hours. Any more time and ·the cells wou.ld lose their inregrity and. be- come useless. They . needed dead people be- cause the hippoccnnpllS is deep in the temporal lobe and very t!·agile. The only way to tag new neurons is by us- ing a lethal substance that acts as a marker. Injection of tritiated thy- midine or bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) that are the chemicals that serve as precursors to the DNA of only newly formed cells. Unfortu- nately, this chemical is lethalto hu- mans. There bas been no ethical way to study the growth of neu- rons in the hippocampus for quite a longtime. One day in the emergency room, aH that changed for Erikson, he met someone who had been using BrdU to mark new cells ia cancer patents. Using that information, Erikson was able to observe that cell after cell was tagged with BrdU. This meant that new cells, hundreds of them, were born since the chemi• .cal was in the subject's body. The new nemons were found in every sample exactly where they pre- dicted they would be. One patent had been injected 781 days before he died. There were as many as 300 new tagged cells percubic mil- limeter in the one part ofthe hip- pocampus. Still many questions remain un- answered. For example, what use will this new finding have? How will we transplant fetal cells into human brains without killing the fetus? Howwe:n do the new neurons, m'lce implanted into the adult human brain, become integrated into the CNS? Sources: Gibbs, W. Wayt. \Dogma Over- turned.\ Scientitic American. Nov. 1998: 19.;20. Workshop! Workshop! Read All About It! When U return Concordiensis staff will hold In general, a fuerceiiis a clean, efficient, reliable and environmen- tally safe way to heat a home or power an automobile at an aver- age cost of 20% less than tradi- tional energy methods. The ve- surface splits the fuel into protons and electrons. The protons pass through the membrane to react with the air. The electrons are not allowed to pass through the mem- brane because-the material proper- ties of it prevent this from occur- ring. Instead, the electrons must travel aromid the entire membrane, ofpoVIer generation. · \t fi t k. h • th c } Inordnt>Ousethefuelceu,som~ 1 S lfS wor . S Op lll . e 0 - sott ofca.rbon-based fuel must be hicles powered burned. So by these new r--------------------------'-------, how is that compact fuel.cells better than wlll have near Wire Carrying what the zero environmen- El · · · tal impact and cost less to oper- ate. This technol- ogy is very close to becoming are- ality. A local busi- ness, Pltig Power, and some associ- ate companies have developed a compact form of the fuel cell and ec~ nc1 ty --- r-..-..!~:::J--+..., p ow e r plants are doil1g now? Theone ma- jor differ- ence is that fuel cells • produce no ozone de- pleting by- products such as ni- trous oxide, · · sulfur diox~ are currently L..o..----------------------------- ide. and car\- · making plans to 1rtass produce thus creating a flow of electricity. bon n1(}nO)(kfe. The only gas that these devices for the general pub- Since the home version ·of the is omitted inti> the atmosphere is lie. The fuel cell technology has fuel cell is supposed to come otit carb{)n di~xide and the amount been in the development stage for first, what does it do for the home? that is release<! is only half of what over a hundred years, but the cost A better question is what does it a cotnp~r:ableengine might omit. for the materials and the size re- not do for the tionie. The ()nly oth<':r major by-product quired made them unattainable for The home v.ersion fuel cell is prod11ced :j)y a fuel cell is water. the public. Now that the material much like yourown private power Since tire fa:e[: cell does not, in fact, cost has dropped, and with Plug plant in your basement. It com- damage t:he ozone or dump heat Power's new design, expect to see p1etely supplies your home with into the dvi11king water system, it these fuel cells make their debut power; the model of the ce11 de- is a very environmentally-sound into the mass market veJy s~on. pends on the power output. ln any alternative to commercialized So how does a fuel cell work? case, large power plants will be powergelleration. Put simply, a fuel cell is a device phased out of the homes with this Due to tl1e complexity of the that combines fuel with air and new technology for millions of cus- therm<Jdytllltl'lics and chemistry re- converts the energy of the fuel into tomers. It is expected that the actions ()fthis system, the specific electricity. The general architecture power companies will buy many of descriptio11stulddetails were om it- of a fuel cell consists of a fue I elec- these machines and outfit their cus- ted. !fyou'\Vou ld like more infor- tr'ode and an air electrode, sepa- tamers with them. So the customer mationplea::se feel free to ask ques- rated by a conducting membrane. still pays for electricity fi·om the tions <lt\ com rnents at the When a fuel is introduced into the powel' company. The fuel cell not fo llo'Wiill ge-ma.il address: systcin, the conducting membrane only powers the home, but with the ausfcldj @id()l.union.cdu lege Center Auditorium. We will be having an instruc- tional demonstration on the basics of journalism and how . you can becom·e a part of the Concordy world. Only U can help the: College newspa- per be number one. We'll· give U a boost by displaying and explaining the rules and regulations. Learn layout, writing techniques, copy e.d- iting and mucl1 more~ Be there on Thursday J ariuary 7th at 8:00pm. What a r~sume booster?!?!

Advertisements '.: . ,•, ''. Fi..r:1cl <=>-.:~ t ~4y -u-.ri.io.r1 C:::C::>1l_~g~ St'LI-d~r-1\\l:S tr~I\1.s£c::er t<:> Pa...c::~ \\l..Y..-..i~~rsi_~ a·>I.sc:::c::::»~~.r -.:h.~ e:x:c:::i._-a:i.r~_g- ac::a..d_~••-._i_c:: ~c>:.rl.d .. ·0£ .,a...c::~ -...JI1_i_-v-ers.i.-.:y-- . . . ...._ <..~ '-ri·.s-c..A....:N\I:>:i::r-ol~ S<:;I--:toC> L..AR.SFIIP ~ <::<::>~r--li.F...I'f ...... <:.A..~ I~..:Js I....C:>~:I <.>r-.J.S= QI:»P.CJI~\T;I:~: . <._-::> LLJ.\ J.:> 1'.C:S· t.igi <.,.LI..S L><e.:,1T'I :;;·• s:cJ\:o·e>Ja.E·.S}'>c_.i~p .p•-<->graTY, ._-,F-l'ers qu.a..ificd s·t.·:u.:::l·c::n1:\$ a\\'·ar-cl.s .sc•Lr~i:J:-:.g Fr:<>..-r> $ J: ,()()0 l-\'\'\r y<-!'a.r. L\>-...:..c:: t.<:~ li:r-,'lit::e.¢1 f-Ll-:1n,ds~ ~.c c: .. :-::r'\)·<....:<..>-...~r::.l...ge ,- >'CJ\.1 C'·t.~ ~fJ'~\li> .. ;;:;.-..~ $-..:>~)·n ~~s '{-!)\-\'lS:~·il-;,.l¢_ .,._. c::>~:R. It()JO ~.A_Jc::::>~S IJ',f T.-.:LE. FC>I~I...<:>~r-.;r<;::;;. .A..R.JE.AS:= ..,. < :c: .. I\E\l-J,._l.IYc..\':r:· Sc:...:i.-...·o~·c.­ .._ I=\-<l .. :ti;..-:~t: .i.e:->\~\\ ..., l.aa t.( .,. .. :-..-~-•· a .t· ic:.••\~ Sy·s\£.~t.\:':\I-.-'\~'-O:.. - I _i h-= .- .... 1 A\'\..t•l; s ~ $ <.: i \\\' \1·<-=<=:\S ._. 1'-.J l...l •-si xt g I>4-~Ce c::>f-.C=-:r.s o..:~.;·c._;-I'J.<..>i~:c \'--. l......,...,.....,,. c;.;c.:,.!l...,, .. \-=t'li.c•l.(. 1~-,.c:o.~t:i.a:.'ll.t~s it~· ~'<L-w Vc,.r·J, <._ :.iry at'l<-J 1'\lfl·e::cl.::-t~l.l- ... j·ll~--~ 'X,..'\C;;;:-:sr<.-11'-.:-.s-t<...:-r C.::(_;Jfl.t·.t\ll. t >'\- ~ <;> ~rTS\''.A.l\\o.J I:> I:r..Tc:;. <.::::<:><.>PI-<::~~ ri\'V'\E EO 'LT<=.A'I'\I c:> 1\'.T I» R..C><:::;. R.A.~: .Pa<.:.:.- oo:f\Cers ~ualif> • ._-._j s~~Jo:let>1..s <1><-: 0+\>F... .. ,. ~~r. .. :J.r-,·,,a r:Y\\ r<..., g.a. in ~x F\<..\=r i c...~T, ,_;,_\': .a£ 'lc:.l <. :o.illa·• • ·•·rl.<..:J~I.ey .:.l.I)J: :.:l.'l. c-l\\be s.:..-l.ll'lot::\\ ,t..,, .. , .. t ltr·(-•1.1~!!'..1• .,>tar· < :.c.'\ 1 ... <...1l.Jic.._ ... <t.·l i-<1'1'1 l~1'11..\:ll·r-~-·-·]lt'l\ll ... 1 .. 1\11..:: ... l,·l\<..:.gr·.:.tii.J :llfo..._•'J.}.,,\i. Stlllc..J~\Il.l.~ ll11(.l ...,lll'-l)-' r·.._-l ... Ll·~-'-1~ 1-..,aia.l i·r:·'l·~~- .. r\i·):sl·\:\i)l·-\\'- '-·Villi ;_tl'l L-~··• r·aiJ\ll~: i.,<>l<\ltti.l1 <_.,.f .. ~~ ... 1 .. ()<)~) :$<) ... ~·(\){.). J..,ot..•r· ;,..c.;~ .. ._,-_ Nc:-.L l-., in~~ .,,i..:l<.:.'C<....\&.:J~ I il-<..~ L:Xt->L\I'i<-..\1'1.(._\(._-. A.J-. ..... 1 ).l.,·l(._\-t;:;- _ ....... li<.I'..-,:~1-Lt.-.... <.-:.11-. );.c:..··t it~ e! -wi.11 g.i-...,.-e y-<>·.._ IIll<:»r~ -.:ha...II. a._\I1 ~d ... c~-.:i.c:>..ll:\1- ~c:! -w:ill _I>r~J?a.r~ . ' j \ \ ij$ ... --·.~ ~ l' '·~ ·J . .. . - . ~ i s ;'Do yon,.w~ant to-.make . some -extra . '' ·? money. . •. . : . ·' '·How ~bout a par(titl;tejob as ~Je~ephon~ researcherz No . . . . . selling!!!- \ . · E'asy· work in a comfortable, profes- sional atmospheTe. . }. ' . ., . Cotnpetitivepay, flexible daj~night and· Y('eekend schedulin,_K .. : .. : I _ . \ . ... .~ ... · ~ .: - . . ' ' y-c:>ll1 Cc::>r slL-..c::c~ss- III.<>rc il:'!.{C:.:.t-tTll:<..l:tic.:Jilt '-.:,._Jl 9.:14-/7 ... \3-~'3700 .- .. -:.l· .:Z.J 2-346-1927, f•:xr . .2.2.-~\J ~ 'V\lStl LIS ;l[ v~v·vv.J .. :>~ t<.:c·_ \-~<-'I 1. .. 1 ._ > 1· <.:-- • 11 'l a. i l i t'l fC.:o.:.~.-~-(?.?>1-,a<-:'-~-<-:.._l t;• (iw-.ciLt..<....l<..: ~·x..t __ :> 7_'> I. i1.11 y.c.Ltt\ r-.-,~~·ss::.~g·c~)- 'T ·. , . ,., Please fjve 5enerously to the Unilcd Way Carnpt1i8f1 at Union October 26l 11 - Novernber 6L 1 ' Unit;ed \Nay ofSchenectady County, Inc - ' . . ... ~ ·· · Call for nl.ore ihfo: 346:.6()50-or . e-mail n1ike@ phonesolutions.com . .• -. . ·.· -•o;\ J n' -:--=,==::~:~:::::::::: ::-~ . OW DOES $800tWEEK EXTRA INCOM · · SOUtJd la VOU? \' AmlJiin gly, profitable opportunity. Send self-addressed stamped envelope to: Visit our web page@ ~w.ph_onesol~tibns.col!l or look up our ad on · College Town USA~ we· re listed with the Jay S t Merchants under · Union College. GROUP FIVE. I ' '541 N. Atad y Blvd. Dept N ~~ ........ ~·····ts. ~- Phone Solutions 433 State St. Suite 300 Schenectady, NY 12305 _,

Merrimack Spoils U uion 's Home Opener .Skating Dutchm·en sucumb to Merrimack.in a 5-lloss by Jonathan Gasthalter Efliotr-in-Chief Emeritus The Union College men's hockey team returned to AchHles Rink on Saturday night &fter fm- ishing in second place in the JC Penny Classic in Orono, Maine last weekend .. The Dutchmen, powered by the strong play of se- nior~ captain Mark Szucs and goaltender Leeor Sh:trom defeated· Niagara, then ranked 15th in the nation, last Friday n,ight 5-3. How- ever, in the championship game, the Dutchmen took twenty-eight minutes in penalties, which led to four powerplay goals for the Uni~ versity of Maine, and Union lost the game 6-l. The Dutchmen face<loffagainst the Merrimack Warriors, who had lost two games the previous week- end to Union'sECAC counterpart, the St. Lawrence Saints. The War- riors were eager to get a win for first year coach Chris Serino. Things did not start well for the Dutchmen, as the Warriors got on the board just eleven seconds into the contest. After the opening face-off, senior defenseman Ryan Boyd's pass outofthe Union zone was blocked by Merrimack forward Rejean Stringer. Stringer sent a pass to John Pyliotis, who put the puck over the shoulder of Shtrom. Merrimack continued its strong play in the first period, aggressively fore-checking and keeping Union in its own zone. Later in the period, Stringer capi- talized on another Dutchmen de- fensive error, as Stringer took a pass from Merrimack assistant captain Kris Porter and moved in on Shtrorn, putting it past the Union goaltender. The Warriors netted tb.eir third goal on the powerplay as Stringer scored his third point ofth~ game. After Merrimack gc;Jalfender stopped a Ryan Catnpbell:r;;;coring attempt, Stringer skated into tile Union zone and passed the puck to Vincent Clavenger, ~ho stood wide open. Clavenger,bea.tSiitrom on a quick orie\'time s]u)t. The second perfod 'cfid not get · much better for the l)utchmen, as additional defensive giveaways led Aaron Br amnstein/TC Sophomore Brian Y\(lck/e takes a shot from the blue line in the first perioddttring the 5~1/oss to Merrimac!c to some g()od Merrimack scoring opportunities, The Dutchmen finally were able to get on the board when Szucs scored his third goal of the sea- son. Howevc()r, that was the only goal the Dutchmen would get, as Merrimack continued to play a strcmg neutral :zone trap,. not allow- ing Union ~CJ tnaintain a steady passing game. The Dutdtmert were also hurt again by .}Jellalties as Merrimack scored tllree goals on the poweq>layen routetotheir 5-1 vic- tory. Uni~n head coach Kevin Sneddon wa!; disappointed by the number ofpe-nalties the team took and l)y the D\ltchmen' s defensive play. \J:'m very clisappointed in our effert. I'm mk::ing full blame for that loss. I thought our boys knew [about] hardwork and how to play in our defeiJ!;ive zone. I thought we were ready to play that,\ he said. \We c~&.n 't be killing penal- ties all year Jile that. It kills your team, literally-,\ he said. Szucs fe)tt]mt the team was not prepared to J} lay. \It's extremely disappointing. That flrst goal was a sign that :\1\(e weren't prepared to play. They beat us to all the loose pucks. They wanted it more than us. They oumorked us,\ he said. The Dutc:hr:nen face off against the RPI Engineers Friday night in the third annual Capital Skate Clas- sic at the Gle11s Falls Civic Center. · Union returns home again on No- vember 28tbt<> battle Niagara. Between the Pipes Freshman :Frederick Cyr re- turned to the line-up following~ hand injury. '' Crew Team Whup's Up On Fis.h Competition by John Carbone Staff Writer This past Saturday saw the gath- ering of close to fifty college and high school crew teams on beauti- ful Saratoga Lake. As the last race ofthe season, the Head ofthe Fish would show two things: 1) who had trained the hardest during the past two months, and 2) who would be a contender in the spring racing season. Union's first event for the day was the Novice Women's 8+. Union fielded two boats in this race and both reflected the hard train- ing and dedication which frrst year coach, Kenley Smith '97, has in- stilled ill her young team. With third and ninth place fin- ishes, the Union Women's team looks to have strong depth in the coming years. The girls rowed, what some called,the best piece of their lives. These boats were pow- ered by a couple J ens, a few Katies, one Charlotte, some Laurens, an Allison and an Amie, one Sharon, and a few others. Frosh rower Julie Wittekind, who proudly displayed her bronze meda1, had this to say of the race, \The set was great and the 2.8 mile course didn't really feel that long. It was great to be able to pu 11 away from the boats behind us.\'' for myself) came with tlle Varsity hind them. Later in the afternoon, the Men's 8+ race. Once a~ain, Union As Andy Martinson recalled, varsity women took to the water fielded two strong boats for this \Hearing all the freshman girls to strut their stuff. Due to, Vl'hat event and both raced with poise cheering my name gave me the can only be termed, a bizarre and confidence. The nen's \A\ motivation i needed to finish rowingweekandacouple~wies, boat, comprised of coxswain the women's boat was almost Dickey \Boot and Rally\ Simmons, scratched from the comp~ition. Mark \I'm big, strongandtlteiJic- These nine women, Tara '\'What est guy on campus\ Morse, Andy do you mean I'm aJWlior'N()yes, '\Peter Peter Pumpkin Eater\ Mary \Leopard Print\ Felton, Martinson, Mike \I pulle.d extra Christy \Pumpkin I I can\t <leal hard 'tause it's my birtllday\ right now\ Butler, Braelin \We're Sherwood, Jamie \Still no nick- on the same wavelength\ Pantel, name necessary\ Slocum, Naemmah \My right ar1n is Remiguez \That's Polish for saucy stronger than all of Skidmore\ love god\ Drozd, Rob\ Jtist call me Tan, Chris \Mmm Is that Clif... Bar\ Hoppenfeld, Jon perfume?\ Vines, Sarah \I'm ''When the eat's away .. _\ Albert really not 4\ Ahart, Melissa \I and John \I pulled eJCtra hard don'tiLI<emynickname\Sullivan 'cause it's Mikey's birthday\ and Cory \The Cox\ !Cautz, Carbone, started the race just overcame the week's adv-ersity ahead of their arcll rival RPL Be~ and took to the water. Tlley ing able to see tlleir neillesis gave rowed proudly and flew by the the Union men even m~>re determi- spectators with obvious strength nation to pull until their hands bled. and boat speed. They boldly walked through Junior Tara Noyes summedup Saugatuck Rowing Assoc.'s boat, the race; \We raced hard and despite the curses and lewd com- ended the season on a p()sitive tnents. that the Connecticut-based note. This race gives us )()ts of rowing club hurled at them. motivation to train hard for the As Union came undemeath the spring.\ Tara also added that she final bridge of the race, the cheers has rea11y taken a liking to and calls of their fan.s· i11spired spandex and hopes to purslle a them to pick up the pace and put career in a related field some distance betwee11 tllem and strongly.\ The Uni()n 8+ continued it's quickened p~ce for the remaining 500 meters ()ftlte race. Exhausted, nauseous, anc£ yet tingly, the men were awarded silver medals for their strong perfonnance, finishing only 8 seconds behitld RPI, yet 19 sec- onds ahead of third place, and pe- rennial powe:rllouse, RIT. The men's \B\ boa.1, powered by Adam \New Jersey loYin\' Murphy, Rob \Super-Trou\'Plimey, Geoff\Dairy Country\H()ffmann; Aaron \Can· ton Football forever\ Noble, Dave \Udderly Fan1astic\ Polizzi, Jay \GC-MS or bust\ Pyo, Tim \Yumbo\ Lash Hans\I like\ Black , ' and coxswain Willard Marie Genrich III, als() had a strong race. Junior David Polizzi summed it up, \It was like, you know, when you're pull ing.bard and you're just, Oh my God, like so nauseous. Ewww rightn()w.\ All told, an impressive fmal fall showing for U11ion Crew. On a more personal 11ote, thanks to the other eight gl!ys who made my fi- nal Head race a memorable sue- The climax of the day (at least RPl, who had slowly crept up he- cess. ·. sjJIJrts··::ii;Jiiors:-,~Wisn> Gooif·Liicli>~ iii .. ,JVJnter·· Teams over Break • >, -,:·, \ :. ·-~~ '\• <<,_.,\ • io !< ~~· -~;~~'~:<<·~,~:<;+·,~:~- ; :;~-,J~-~J~~.:~ ·.,}~ ;~~\;;)~.'·~,.>1•. {<•~'>. ,·· ',.'~:. _,',_ ,' 1 . '_. . ',, ,. •

Inside: Football Men'slce Hockey Field Hockey Women's Soccer Men's Soccer Crew Winter Previews and more ••• Page18 Merrimack Spoils Union's Home Opener Skating Dutchmen sucumb to Merrimack.in a 5-1 loss by JonathanG~s1halter Ediotr-in-Chief Emeritus The Union College men's hockey team. returned to Achilles Rink on Saturday night afier rm- ishing in second place in tlle JC Penny Classic in Orono, Maine last weekeJild. The Dutchmen, powered by the strong play of se- niors captain Mark Szucs and goaltender Leeor Shtrorn defeated Niagara, then ranked 15th in the nation, last Friday night 5-3. How- ever, in the championsAip game, the Dutchmen took twenty-eight rninuks in penalties, \lhich led to four rowerplay goals for the Uni- \er--.ity of Maine. and t 1 nion lost the game 6-1. Till' Dutchmen faced off against the Merrimack Warriors, who had lPst l\\o games the prL\\ious week- end tollnion's ECAC coLJnterpart, the St. Lawrence Saints. The War- riors were eager to get a win for first year coach Chris Serino. Things did not start well for the Dutchmen, as the Warriors got on the board just eleven seconds into the contest. After the opening face-off, senior defenseman Ryan Boyd's pass out ofthe Union zone was blocked by Merrimack forward Rejean Stringer. Stringer sent a pass to John Pyliotis, who put the puck over the shoulder of Shtrom. Merrimack continued its strong play in the first period, aggressively fore~checking and keeping Union in its own zone. Later in the period, Stringer capi- talized on another Dutchmen de- fensive error, as Stringer took a pass from Merrimack assistant captain Kris Porter and moved in on Shtrom, putting it past the Union goaltender. The Warriors netted their third goal on the powerplay as Stringer scored his third point ofthe game. After Merrimack goaltender stopped a Ryan Campbell scoring attempt, Stringer skated into the Union zone and passed the puck to Vincent Clavenger, who stood wide open. Claven,gerbeat Shtrom on a quick one-time shot. The second period did not get · much better for the Dutchmen, as additional defensive giveaways led Aaron Bra unstein/TC Sophomore Brian Yackle takes a shot from the blue line in the first period during the 5-l loss to Merrimack to some good Merrimack scoring opportunities. The Dutchmen finally were able to get on the board when Szucs scored b.is tb.ird goal of the sea- son. However, that was the only goal the Dutchmen would get, as Merrimack continued to play a strong ne11tral zone trap, not allow- ing Union to maintaiJil a steady passing game. The D11tchmen were also hurt again by penalties as Merrimack scored three goals on the powerplay en route to their 5-J vic- tory. Union head coach Kevin Sneddon was disappointed by the number of penalties the team took and by the Dutchmen's defensive play. \I'm very disappointed in our effort. I'm taking filii blame for that lew:; I thought our boys knew [ahm1t} hard work and how to play in our defensive zone. I thought we were ready to play that,\ he said. \We can't be killing penal- ties all year like that. It kills your team, literally,\ he said. Szucs fe It that the team was not prepared to play. \It's extremely disappointing. That first goal was a sign that we weren't prepared to play. They beat us to all the loose pucks. They wanted it more than us. They outworked us,\ he said. The Dutchmen face off against the RP£ Engineers Friday night in the third annual Capital Skate Clas- sic at the Glens Falls Civic Center. Union returns home again on No- vember 28th to battle Niagara. Between the Pipes Freshman Frederic~{ Cyr re- turned to the line-up following a hand injury. Crew Team Whops Up On F,ish Competition by John Carb()ne Staff Writer from the boats behind us.\ for myself) came with the Varsity hind them. Later in the afternoon, the Men's 8+ race. Once again, Union varsity women took to the water fielded two strong boats for this This past Saturday saw the gath- to strut their stuff. Due to, what event and both raced with poise ering of close to fifty college and can only be termed, a bizarre and confidence. The men's \A\ As Andy Martinson recalled, \Hearing all the freshman girls cheering my name gave me the motivation I needed to finish high school crew teams on beauti- rowingweekandacoupleinjuries, boat, comprised of coxswain strongly.\ ful SanHogaLake. As the last race the women's boat was almost Dickey\BootandRally\ Simmons, The Union 8+ continued it's of the season, the Head of the Fish scratched from the competition. Mark ''I'm big, strong and the nic- quickened pace for the remaining would show two things: 1) who These nine women, Tara \What est guy on campus\ Morse, Andy 500 meters ofthe race. Exhausted, had trained the hardest during the do you mean I'm a Junior'' Noyes, \Peter Peter Pumpkin Eater\ nauseous, and yet tingly, the men past two months, and 2) who Mary \Leopard Print\ Felton, Martinson, Mike \I pulled extra were awarded silvermedalsfortheir wouldbeacontenderinthespring Christy \Pumpkin I I can't deal hard 'cause it's my birthday\ racing season. right now\ Butler, Brae lin \We're Sherwood, Jamie \Still no nick- Union's rrrst event for the day on the same wavelength\ Pantel, name necessary\ Slocum, was the Novice Women's 8+. Naemmah \My right arm is Remiguez\That'sPolishforsaucy Union fielded two boats in this race stronger than all of Skidmore\ love god\ Drozd, Rob \Just call me and both reflected the hard train- Tan, Chris \Mmm Is that Clif ... Bar\ Hoppenfeld, Jon ing and dedication which frrst year perfume?\ Vines, Sarah \I'm \When the eat's away ... \ Albert coach, Kenley Smith '97, has in- really not 4\ Ahart, Melissa \I and Joh·n \I pulled extra hard stilled in her young team. don'tlikemynickname\Sullivan 'cause it's Mikey's birthday\ With third and ninth place fin- and Cory \The Cox\ Kautz, Carbone, started the race just ishes, the Union Women's team overcame the week's adversity ahead oftheirarch rival R.PI. Be- looks to have strong depth in the and took to the water. They ing able to see their nemesis gave strong performance, finishing only 8 seconds behind RPI, yet 19 sec- onds ahead ·of third place, and pe- rennial powerhouse, RIT. The men's \E\ boat, powered by Adam \New Jersey Iovin \' Murphy, Rob \Super· TrQu\ Pinney, Geoff\Dairy Country\ Hoffmann, Aaron \Can- ton Football Forever\ Noble, Dave \Udderly Fantastic\ Polizzi, Jay \GC-MS or bust\ Pyo, Tim \Yumbo\ Lash, Hans \I like\ Black, coming years. The girls rowed, rowed proudly and flew by the theUnionmenevenmoredeterrni- and coxswain Willard Marie what some called, the best piece of spectators with obvious strength nation to pull until their hands bled. Genrich II l, also had a strong race. their lives. These boats were pow- and boat speed. They boldly walked through Junior David Polizzi summed it eredbya couple Jens, a few Katies, Junior Tara Noyes summed up Saugatuck Rowing Assoc.'s boat, one Charlotte, some Laurens, an the ~ace, \We raced hard and despite the curses and lewd com- A Ilison and an Arnie, one Sharon, ended the season on a positive ments that the Connecticut-based and a few others. note. This race gives us lots of rowing club hurled at them. Frosh rower Julie Wittekind, who motivation to train hard for the As Union came underneath the proudly displayed her bronze spring.\ Taraalsoaddedthatshe finalbridgeoftherace,thecheers medal. had this to say of the race, has really taken a liking to and calls of their fans inspired \The set was great and the 2.8 mile spandex and hopes to pursue a them to pick up the pace and put course didn't really fee I that long. career in a related field some distance between them and up, \It was like, you know, when you're pulling hard and you're just, Oh my God, like so nauseous. Ewwwright now.\ All told, an impressive final fall showing for Union Crew. On a more personal note, thanks to the other eight guys who made my fi- nal Head race a memorable sue- It was greatto be able to pull away The climax of the day (at least RPI, who had slowly crept up be- cess. [ Sports Editors Wish Goo~ LuCk to Winter.Teams Over Break

ea- as he al- to d. in a ' ,• s ly C• e- it s. a Sports. Ol.one.nrbiertsis • November 5, 1'9-98 • Page 19 Women's SocCer Overlooked By NCAA Players and Coaches Devastated by Lack oflnvitation unfortui1ate news. Thinking the the NCAA in Kansas to f\md out After meeting with her committee, coach was just ')oking around\ as much information possible for Hoffman then gave her Matus.ewicz told her other the reas<Jns why Union was recommendationstotheNCAAfor roomntates,. who are also other unfortunately shut out from this thefmaiNewYorkregion bids for players ontlte.team, the supposed year's tcurnament. Little the tournament. \Although Union jeke the coach was playing on information about the might have been 2\dinthe state and them. '·But wft:en Speck t91d circU1llstancesUnion College was 161!1 in the nation, their strength of Matusewiei he was serious and based for the selection committee schedule was taking into that the news: was no joke; chills could be gathered; however, consideration and the national immediately went through her Wayne Barrow, the Assistant selection committee looks at all body, while tell!s began to role Director of Championships at the thosetypes.ofcriteria.\ Teams that by Brian Terlin$ky .Sports Editor · It was supposed to be 8ll excit~ ing and long-lasting .postseason. It was supposed to be an IUllazing fmal stretch for the seniors ·on the team. But the unthink~ble oc- curred, bringing this magical and historical season to an abmpt and most tearful end for the women's University of California at San Diego, to redo the s.election process. After taking into consideration strength of schedule, quality of wins, and record, Sakala was notified by Hillard later in the day, who explained to Sakala the NCAA's position when it came down to giving out the fmal bids. Like any coach would be, Speck was very emotional since this socc.erteamatUnion. . season was truly historic for Last Sundaynight, the NCAA, uu•~n••n's soccer here at Union with recommendations fr()m spe- College. \I and therest of the team cificcoaches and athletic auect1ors were broken hearted. But it came from Division III women's soccer. to the number of quality all across th.e country, selected the wins, and we really did not 1998-championship tournament. enough,\ Speck said. All the Familiar New Yor.k and New En- players on the team believed they gland teams like William Smith, were more than qualified to be in Williams, C<>rtlandanditl1aca were this year's tournament. \It was all given bids to this year's cham- uch a disappointment. We pionship. But one team tllat was deserved to play in this year's mysteriously left off the tournament/' senior captain Sara tournament's brackets, which is said. surely just as good or even neTn\r 1 Although the team ended their then some ofthose teams. selected, season with a shocker, the 1998 was the women's team from Union fall season will be a season to College. remember. Union will be The question that neecled to be recognized for out-scoring their answered f()r Coach Speck, opponents 57 to 9 in their regular players, the .students,. and even us season goals. The team went sports editors was: Why? unbeaten in the UCAA, Brian A few minwes after Athletic Speck was named Coach of the Director Dick Sakala nn.nr• Year, and freshman forward Katie Coach Speck with the fmal bids to......._ __ _.,.... ____ __. Smith was named Rooki.e of the this year's t()urnament, Speck \ . , . . . Sports Information Year. Players from Union that were began the hard task of calling and Coach of the Year Bnan Speck talk to the team durmg halftime of a game th1s year selected to the UCAA First Team explaining the situation t() his eagerly anticipated team. Sophomore forward · Missy Matusewicz waited by her phone during the evening hows for the call that wo11ld justify the team's post-season schedule. Every()ne else 011 the team waited anxi()Usly too, as each player thought about the up-coming hard week of practice they must all pe:vform before their long-awaited post .. season competition this weekend. Coach Speck, in total shock himself, would tell Matusewicz some trul and down her face. All Matusewicz could think the rest of the night about was how this could have happened to such a successful and determined team. \This was a total shock. After realizing the phone call from the coach was no joke, the news was one of:the saddest moments for me. When the whole team was fmally notified, we all decided to get together and there were plenty of tears between all of us,\ Matusewicz said. The Concordiensis contacted NCAA said it was unfortunate for Union but the bid selections were accurate. \Union simply did not have a strong enough schedule. The other teams may have had a worse record, but they faced higher caliber teams,\ Burrows said. Susan Hoffman, the Assistant Athletic Director of SUNY Brockport, chairs the New York region selectioncommittee for the NCAA, along with member who are coaches from Ithaca, Cortland, William-Smith, and Platsburgh. Men's Soccer Ends With A Victory b:y RoryStern Stoff Writer The Men'ssoccer team fmished the regular season with their frrst victory on the road. Unions over- all record was6-8-1 andwere 1-5 in theUCAA. Union traveled to Southern Ver- mont to fmish up theirseas()n. Pre- viously, the team was winless on the road. U11ion came out victori- ous with some help from Senior Craig Elliilan, who put two goals on the board. Union won the game 3-1, also getting a goal from.s()pho- more standout Aaron Sabin. Peter Koch was in th.e net for the Dutch- men, playing another strongga.me. The Dutchmen came out and scored in the frrst three mintttes of the game. Southern. Vermont an- swered back quickly in the tirsthalf, tying the game at one apiece. Union let down but came back in the second half, .scoring twice. Sidelined from an injury during practice was junior goalkeeper Dan Danbusky. Danbusky split time with Koch in the net, both play- ing quite well. During the week, Union played against Middlebury, the second rankedteam in the nation, and first in the New England area. The Dutchmen were out-shot27-5, and lost the match 5-0. The team did not by any means play poorly, but were simply out-played by a very tough: opponent. In fact the Dutch- men played a. very solid game, but couldn't overcome Middlebury's drive. Just a few days earlier, the Dutch- men traveled to Rochester to face the Yellowja.ckets. Union again came out strong and scored in the first half. (Theirfustgoal in the firSt half in several games.) However, the team then sat back on their lead, and let Rochester take advantage to tie the game in the 84th minute. The teams went into double over- time, playing very smart, but nei- ther team could capitalize in the extra minutes for a victory. The Dutchmen have once again played a very tough schedule of opponents. This year, the team was very young and didn't put it all together when they weuld have liked to. Union .came out very strong in their tournament, and seemed very promising to have a successful season. The team pulled together quickly and played very smart soccer. In fact, they contin- ued playing smart soccer the en- tire season, but didn't score when they had to. The team is graduat- ing its two CO-captains, Mickey Bazydlo and Ibrahim Adamu, as well as Craig Ellman and Ryan Cohen. All four men brought ex- perience on.to the field with their leadership skills and their ability to playthegame. The team will greatly miss these veterall players next season, and we wish them all the best ofluck in their future. As for the rest of the team,many players retwning are underclass- men. quite a few ofwhichhave seen action on the field. received bids from the New York region committee were Cortland, Nazareth, William-Smith, Ithaca, and Rochester. Atlethic Director Dick Sakata, who was the first to find out the disturbing news on Sunday night, was in utter disbelief. \When I made the call to fmd who received bids and did. not hear Union's name. 1 was totally shocked,\ he said. Since Sakala believed Union was miss- represented, he called Monday morning to the National Selection chair, Heather Hillard at were freshman defenseman Stephanie Maychack, junior defenseman Jaymee.Wilson,junior mid-fielder Abby Harris, freshman forward Katie Smith, and Missy Matusewicz. Freshman mid-fielder Tara IJsley was named to the Second Team. On a personal note, l had a great time meeting all you Dutch women players and enjoyed watching you this season make history for Union College. Don't let this situation end your amazing season on a bad note. Keep up the good work and best wishes for next year. ·F/•~ ~~ k, _, ; ~ 'J . . : .;.:.

as a urt he ay he to an in o- e- d, 's d. it n II a Sports oroucnrhlettsis • November 5, 1998 • Page 19 Women's Soccer Overlooked By NCAA Players and Coaches Devastated by Lack of Invitation by Brian Terlinsky Sports Editor It was supposed to be an excit- ing and long-lasting postseason. It was sapposed to be an amazing fmal stretch for tlle seniors on the team. But the unthinkable oc- curred, bringing this magical and historical season to an abrupt and most tearful end for the women's soccer team at Union. Last Sunday night, the NCAA, with recommendations from spe- cific coaches and athletic directors from Division III women's soccer all across the country, selected the 1998-championship tournament. Familiar New York and New En- gland teams like William Smith, Williams, Cortland and Ithaca were all given bids to this year's cham- pionship. But one team that was mysteriously left off the tournament's brackets, which is surely just as good or even better then some of those teams selected, was the women's team from Union College. The question that needed to be answered for Coach Speck, the .i players, the students, and even us sports editors was: Why? A few minutes after Athletic Director Dick Sakala notified unfortunate news. Thinking the coach was just \joking around\ Matusewicz told her other roommates, who are also other players on the team, the supposed j()ke the coach was playing on them. But when Speck told Matusewicz he was serious and thilt the news was no joke, chills im111edia.tel'y went through her body, while tears begaa to role Coach Speck with the final bids to ,__ _______ ___, the NCAA in Kansas to find out as much information possible for the reasons why Union was unfortunately shut out fr()m this year's tottrnament. Little information about the circumstances Union Cellege was based for the selection C()mmittee could be gathered; hewever, Wayne Burrow, the Assistant Director of Championships at the After meeting with her committee, Hoffman then gave her recommendations to the NCAA for the fmal New York region bids for the tournament. \Although Union might have been 2\d in the state and 16th in the nation, their streHgth of schedule was taking into consideration and the natim1.al selection committee looks at aU those types of criteria.\ Teruns that U ni versi ty of Calif om iil at San Diego, to redo the selection process. After taking into consideration stre11gth of schedule, quality of wins, and record, Sakala was n()lified by Hillard la~er in the day, who explained to Sakala the N:\CAA 's position when it came d()wn to giving out the final bids. Like any coach would be, Speck was very emotional si11<:e thi~ season was truly historic for . women's soccer here at Union College. \land the rest oflhe team were broken heart.:J. BLlt it came down to the number of quality wins, and we really did not enough,\ Speck said. AU the players on the team bcli~ved they were more than qual ifieu to be in this year's tournament. \It was such a disappointme!lt. We deserved to play i11 this year's tournament,\ senior captain Sara Moss said. Although the team ended their season with a shocker, the 1998 fall season will be a sectson to remember. Union ....,.ill be recognized for out-scoring their opponents 57 to 9 in their regular season goals. The tea:m went unbeaten in the UCAA, Brian Speck was named Coacl! of the Year, and freshman forward Katie Smith was named Rookie of the this year's tournament, Speck began the hard task of calling and explaining the situation to his eagerly anticipated team. Sophomore forward Missy Matusewicz waited by her phone during the evening hours for the call that would justify the team's post-season schedule. Everyone else on the team waited anxiously too, as each player thought about the up-coming hard week of practice they must all perform before their long-awaited post- season competition this weekend. Sports Information Year. Players from UniontlJatwere \Coach of the Year\ Brian Speck talk to the team Juring halftime of a game this year selected to the UCAA First Team Coach Speck, in total shock himself, would tell Matusewicz some truly alii and down her face. All Matusewicz could think the rest of the night about was how this could have happened to such a successful and determined team. \This was a total shock. After realizing the phone call from the coach was no joke, the news was one ofthesaddestmoments forme. When the whole team was finally notified, ~e all decided to get together and there were plenty of tears between a 11 of us,\ Matusewicz said. The Co11cordiens is contacted NCAA said it was unfortunate for Union but the bid selecti()ns were accurate. \Union simply did n()t have a strong enough schedule. The other teams may have had a worse record, but they faced higher caliber teams,\ Burrows said. Susan Hoffman, the Assistant Athletic Director of SUNY Brockport, chairs the New York region selection committee for the NCAA, along with member wlw are coaches from Ithaca, C<Jrtland, William-Smith, and Platsburgh. Men's Soccer Ends With A Victory by Rory Stern Staff Writer The Men's soccer team fmished the regular season with their frrst victory on the road. Unions over- all record was 6-8-1 and were 1-5 in theUCAA. Union traveled to Southern Ver- mont to fmish up their season. Pre- viously, the team was winless on the road. Union came out victori- ous with some help from Senior Craig Ellman, who put two goals on the board. Union won the game 3 -I, also getting a goal from sopho- more standout Aaron Sabin. Peter Koch was in the net for the Dutch- men, playing an()ther strong game. The Dutchmen came out and scored in the frrst three minutes of the game. Southern Vermont an- swered back quickly in the first half, tying the game at one apiece. Union let down but came back in the second half, scoring twice. Sidelined from an injury during practice was junior goalkeeper Dan Danbusky. Danbusky split time with ICoch in the net, both play- ing quite well During t:he week, Union played against Middlebury, the second rank eel tearn in the nation, and first in the New England area. The Dutchmen were out-shot27-5, and lost the match 5-0. The team did not by any means play poorly, but were simply out-played by a very toughopp()nent. In fact the Dutch- men played a very solid game, but couldn't overcome Middlebury's drive. Justa few days earlier, the Dutch- men traveled to Rochester to face the Yellowjackets. Union again came ()Ut strong and scored in the first half. (Their first goal in the first half in several games.) However, the team then sat back on their lead, and let Rochester take advantage to tie the game in the 84th minute. The teams vvent into double over- time~ !>laying very smart, but nei- ther team could capitalize in the extra lllinutes for a victory. The Dutchmen have once again played a very tough schedule of opponents. This year, the team was very young and didn't put it all together when they wolild have liked to. Union came out very strong in their tournament, and seemed very promising to IIave a successful season. The team pulled together quickly and played very smart soccer. In fact, they contin- ued playing smart soccer tile en- tire season, but didn't score when they had to. The team is graduat- ing its two CO-captains, Mickey Bazydlo and Ibrahim Adamu, as well as Craig Ellman and Ryan Cohen. All four men brou.ght ex- perience onto the field with their leadership skills and their ability to play the game. The team will greatly miss these veteran players next season, and we wish them all the best ofluck in their future. As for the rest of the team, many players returning are underclass- men, quite a few of which have seen action on the field. received bids from the New York region committee were Cortland, Nazareth, William-Smith, Ithaca, and Rochester. Atlethic Director Dick Sakala, who was the first to find out the disturbing news on Sunday night, was in utter disbelief. \When I made the call to find who received bids and did not hear Union's name, I was totally shocked,\ he said. Since Sakala believed Union was miss- represented, he called Monday morning to the National Selection chair, Heather Hillard at were freshman defe'!lseman Step11anie Maychack, junior defenseman Jaymee Wilso11, junior mid-fielder Abby Harris, freshman forward Katie Smith, and Missy Matusewicz. Freshman mid· fielder Tara Ilsley was named to the Second Team. On a personal note, l had a great time meeting all you Dutcl1 women players and enjoyed watch itlg you this season make history forUnion College. Don't let this situation end your amazing season on a bad note. Keep up the good worl< and best wishes for next year. This Week In Union Athletics \ · \:- ·Mea's lee Hockey vs. Rensselaer \ ' · ' · @ Gltns Falls Civic Center 7:30 -.-, < . :,. >.' ·'(-~·. ·;· ;. ' '<· · SaturdatOctober31 _,.- ....•• ~~: ., ~.2··'·· .:Fo~·haD.@:Rochesterf:oo ·..;·-··:::.·,., :\~: .,_::.:-~,., ... •.·.~_· .. -:'h.\' . '·-.-·: ... •--- .·· . ·_ - - . ·.· )\···'/};> ''M~q~s: .·g~elays@UniQn 1:00 ·:··:~''···~ ;->.'-··-,''':·;~.:.-~·:...--.···· .. _- .. 1 '::· _· :- ' ,;.,·:~·~:.·w~tne~; .. Jp'l.iingRelays@ Union 1:00 .·\··::c···· .. , :·~. :~\~ii~~(:r~ (;ountry ~ NYSCTC Meet , ·.·.~ ·.:·: .. ··~v,::,;::,f_.-~:·:>:.:·.;:®:~ii#toga:$tate Park u:oo . :· .: .. ;.·.~ : :}:. ;, ::. \Vlinie11~$('J'~CQuntry .. NVSCTC Meet ·. , 1 :. .• :., ,. ::r ,·:·.· ., .. :~:1,@'~~~i~g~ StateParktz:OO ·'· ', /, \ -·- . • _, f '' • t~- . \ f . >'>~ .. \

Page 20 • November 5, 19~8 • C!Inm:nririen!Jis Sports Sports Preview: inter Men's B. asketball ' . . - . by David Brooks Sports Editor Although the season is less then two weeks old, the men's basket- ball team is ready to improve on lastyear's ll-14record. Theteam only lost one senior, captain Rob Tecarr, but even so, the squad is dQminated by nine freshmen, while only returning six letter winners. Third year head coach Bob Mon- tana had the players out as soon as possible, starting practice on October 171ll, the day the NCAA allows teams to practice as a whole. It may not be Midnight Madness, but Montana and assistant coach Dean Edwards had the team run- ning hard and by Sunday night, the team was set. The returnees include senior captain Rob Groelz,juniors Shane Cahill, ))avid Copeland, Mike Votto, Zena Woldeyesus, and sophomore Jon Van Wormer. The nine freshman looking to boost the team to a playoff appearance in- clude Brandon Carney, Danny Dowling, Aaron Galletta, Jason Manning, David Mussella, CJ Rodgers, Marquis Scott, Ray Watson, and S(Jphomore transfer Brian Murray. Coach Montana says, \Weare a better skilled team this year .. We will be leaning on the returning players heavily in the beginning, but we expectthe freshman to start playing a lot ofmi.nutes.\ Coach Montana, Jii<!e any other collegiate basketballcoach, is just excited to get back on the court, \I am excited for the year. I am very optimistic about the season. It's great to have basketballs bouncing in the gym, and seeing t:he players running around.\ When asked about the goa:i for the season he said, \Our aspirations are to play in March, along witll improving our record and becominga.p{)werful team.\ Junior Mike Votto said of the team, \We have great chemistry off the court, which has been helping us on the court. The new players seem to be adju$1ing well to our offense and defense. We appear to have a strong team.\ .. v· . . . . . ' ... ' by Dennis Sanabia Contributing Writer Larry Cottrell and the Indoor squad are looking pretty good for the In<loor season. Some returnees from last year for the men's team are seni()r Peter Flynn and sophomore John Nieman, both of whom should be very competitive in the distance and middle distance events, and had productive cross country seasons. A very important part of Flynn's return is the fact that he works so hard and will be a great example for the young runners in the program. It looks like Flynn will be competing at nationals this year for cross~country, which means a late start. In the field and the short sprints senior Jesse Prisoo and sophomore Chris Strosaltine should be fun to watch as they - come off ahard working off-season in the weight room. Their dedication in the weight room should produce great results on the track and in the field. Look for these team leaders to be in the running. As for the women, some names to look fClr are ju11ior Jordanna Mallach, who set a state record last spring ·in the pole vault (9 feet6in.) after muchhard work:. You can be sure that she isn~t satisfied, though, as she will be striving for somenewheights. Alsointhefield is Carry Cieslcwslci who set a school record at the state meet in the discus last spring. Although she obviously won't be throwing discus indoors, she'll be competing in .the high jump and shot put, both ofvvhich she excels in. Sophomore Amy is a great middle distance and distance Whilemostofthe school is en- joyinga. six-week break, the men's basketball team will be practicing hard, al<Jng the women's basket- ball team, the hockey team, and the swimmi.ngteam. The men's basketba.U team will show off their brillence ()n Novem- ber21 stas they play intheEquinox Classic. After an a\tbreviated Thanksgiving. break, til~ team trav- els to Weseleyanon:December 1 51 , Vassar on the 4th, and Hartwick on the 6th. before neadin~ to Las Ve- g&s to try their luck in tile Las Ve- gas Classic on December 2 J 51 and 22\d. In Las Vegas, tile Shooting Dutchmen open up. against the University of Wisconsin, and the other teams that will be there in .. elude Manchester College, from Indiana, and Hartwick College. Both Wisconsin and Manchester wentquite far in last yea-'.s NCAA toumanunt, thus te~ting Union early in the season. . , The Shooting Dutchmen open their horne season on January gt~t and 91h as they .play h_ost for the Union Invitational. Wo'IDeo,.,,se.'.,Bas~kO,tball~ . \' ·:, ~·. ~:_:·.· ~:~-,~~,~~':''~':::·,~ .·.:: .>.-:~.;,~~~:~~, .. ~~-~ .. ;:: :l-. . ,_ .. . .· -· ., · , '· \ · -' IP,.t}~ffi~!ilL · :: -that'tirey~l~~ t~: lear14 m both Per~J:~_and ~y ~avid Weiner-__ Leah Olivieri, the team's two ?leaf_ O.livie.r!J/ . katie Smith, a back- ., • , Sp(JI't~ EclittJr ~ juiliot captain, looks to lead Wie coUrt P:~ay~~,wP,o has the potential i;~lt_i:\{tl the. post again. Wor~g -~o st.a.rt~a~J;t$~~junan, both look to ~~~~~-Fsidc -with: her once again see!J!~~~~e.·andho~etheirtal­ wdl ]!i.e Beth Peey, a sophomore ~g.~s.,~anlit?.!N.,tll~ team tmprove. whoslf1lbility goes well beyondh5:t;;e,;;_,: ~· )!a:\d¥ . . . y played together years. ~~~Leen Furlong, whQi·~~-:~·aY~ • ;, t;;. umber ofthese girls show~4-her caP.~bilities wh~n s:h~ }181\fe le~ect both coach Burt's scored]31J~Q~tS'~agall!st Skid~1pr~. ·~s~ategy ~~'-~.ach other's tenden- lji~! yeat'#nQp,l;l~_:tQ be even r§Dr~ . ·, cies during·games. ~e confidence pij~l!~~ii.'!~i~ali~~!W~d,p~- these girls ha.ve in ea:c-h· other sitiun;~·:f .-.',;._'.::>··:~.\!~ ./~· .· ;: \'\ · 4 breads nothing but success. With Last year's, campai!ln.fo;r the Union CoJJ~ge Dutchw()men w~s not as suc.cess.ful as tll.e;rrnay hav.e h¢ped. With ~nl~ five S()phomores and stwen freshman e.omprising the team~. it took the01 a. while. tQ leantcoadtM.aryElleaBurt's strat- egy and put it to l:J,Se in .gam~s .... · Follr .()fthe team's he starting players were freshme~ 1111 of whom showed great strides during. the season blJt took a wllile~ to learn, that college basketball ismuch dif:.. · feren1t1lan high scho()li>!tsketball. Thetea.m. fmished with eight wins and six:t~en losss:s overall and 4.-s in th:e UCAA last year. This recor-<1, nootheless, w11s: their best in three years and gave them some- thing t@ W()rk with in the future, This .is a new year and with this new year comes new exjlettations and aspirations. The tea111 not only hopes to improve on Last year's runner. She is currently running cross- country and doing veryvtell. She, too, willbe agreatexattrple for the yoUilger runners as she i:s a very hard w01'ker and carries herselfwell. These three ladies sh_ot~l<l all be great influences on the newcomers. As f()r the Freshina11 this year, they appear to be a solid core of talented athletes. The ieam had · students from Chicago, Tapan, and some locals as well who seem to be promising. Initial reports say they can run fast, jump l!igh, and throw ftu. The season is :Sure to be a promising one, as the team looks to dominate in New Yorlc. Em.M'eNamar'a,theteam'sthree three strong players in the post point threat, h()pes to pick up andanumberofcapableshooters, where she left off last season and Union should not have trouble im- provide the Dmtchwomen with an proving from last year's mark. outside threat. At the point guard Their ability to score from re- position; Kelly Jobnson hopes to bound will definitely help start the lead the offense once again. KeLly fast-break offense the team likes to is on term abroad ill France this fall, run, and with a variety ofplayers but looks to retllrn to the court as who can hit the outside shot, the · soon as she arrives back in the Dutchwotnen can hopefully post states. some high numbers. Look for them Alo1;1gside the ~eturning players, to be a contender as they begin a number of freshman hope to add their season N-ovember 23 at home to the teams' ciyllllmics. Heather against Smith College. o1a.verwho

rts l J I l,i t td k- al to ll- er ·Is 's 11- ~r th st s, 1~ te rs te st n n te - Sports- <n:.atmnrmt:tu.lt~ • November 5, 1998 • Page 21 ' ...... -:::;.:,,·'.<_,_~ .. _ ,,·:;· ... ~---t· _·,'- ' .~··\ . --· g;.;}l 'F:heir .. Season ..... · - - ' Men's and Women'sSwimming by Rachel Bukowski &Drew Davitian Conuihuting Wtiters The success oJ Union College Men's and Women's Swimming and Diving has been unprec- edented over the past few years, and Union h()pes to continu~ their winning tradition in the 1998•99 season with tile return of many valuable upperclassmen, as well as the addition of a number of fresh- men. The Swimming Dutchmen posted a 7-2 record last year; It ave won the past four consecutive New York State Swimming and Diving Championships, and have placed in the top ten at the NCAA Division III Meet for the past five years. The team wiU benefit from the return of AU-Amedcans Dave Searles; JeffHoerle, Bill Flick, and Pete Humphreys. The Dutchwomen posted a 5-4 record last year and captured their first-ever Upstate New York Ath,. letic Association Championship. The women alsoplacedthirdat the New York State Championships. Returning top ten fmishers :from last year's .state meet include Kerry Libnmdi, Erin Wittes and Sarah Rankowitz. The divers, headed by senior Shontel Meecham and junior Adam Hershman, will bejoinedhy fresh- men Sarah Ellman, Kathleen Meloney and JeffBenjamin. They hope to flU in the gaps left by the loss of some oflast year's divers. Veteran Coach Judy Wolf re- turns for her fourth season as head coach of the Swimming and Div- ing teams, accompanied by Assis~ tant Coaches Rae Ashbridge, Keith Murray, and diving coach Maria Coomaraswamy. When asked about her views on the upcoming season, Coach Wolfe stated, \1 see great poten- tial in-this year's teams. The work ethic displayed thus far has been exceptional. The immediate cohe- siveness of our members will pro- vide an environment for the su:c- cess of everyone. I am fortunate to lead this fme goo up .of student athletes into the upcoming sea- son.\ Captains Dave Searles, Jeff Hoerle, Kerry Librandi and Shontel Meecham proyide the team with fmeexamples of leadership qttali- ties and encourage unity among team members with activities ,ffi and out ofthe pool. This Saturqay, November 7, the swimming and diving teams will be hosting the annual Union Re'lays at Alumni Gym, beginning at I :00 PM. Next week the team will fmd itself across the state facing off against University of Rochester. The team members adamantly encourage the ~tudent body to come and support them at home meets. We are hopeful that this season we will maintain the caliber of excellence that has molded Union Swimming for the past few years. Women's Ice Hockey · · · · rience, coaching atthe prep, junior, The Skating Dutchwornen will by Brian Terlinsky a.nd collegiate lev~Ls. The new en~ounter teamslike Middlebury, Spurts Editor coach also has been affiliated with RPI, Bowdoin, RIT and Skidmore The Union Women's Hockey team looks to make its.frrst appear- ance in the ECAC intheir up-com- ing 1999 season. The Skating Dutcllwomen will be in the West- ern Di:v:ision oftheECAC and will have 20 games in their regular sea- son of play. The ECAC bas changedits playoff fonnat, having. the'winners of the four new divi- sions making it into post-season play. Other schools to enter Divi- sion IIJECAC hockey this year are Bates, Trinity, Sacred Heart, and Southern Maine. New Head Coach Fred Quistgard is excited about making Union women's hockey into a very competitive program in the ECAC. Quistgard has much hockey expe- tlte United States W()men's Na~ in this year's schedule. tionalteam in the early 1990's. He Playing .goal will be juniors left: Bowdoin College after a very Lauren Locke and Michelle .successful season last y~ar to take Tardiff: who will most lik~ly be tile head coach position here at switching offfrom game togame. Uni()Il College. Players to look for on offense are Thisyeartheteam consists~f23 juniors Beth Gabrielle, Whitney players, who are mostlyunderclass- Davis an.d sophomore Ali men. The captains, Lauren Locke, Trowbridge, who all were high SaraMoss and Denise Lapierre, are scorers on la~t year's team. reac:Jyto show the entiresthool and :On def~nse, captairt Denise Jeag11e the true competitiveness of Lapierre will play a major role for the Union College women's hockey the team andfonn the defense into program and feeltheywill be a rna~ a stronger part of the team. j()r threat to other te-ams in the The Skating Dutchwomen will ECAC. Currently the Skating opentheirbomeschedide Novem .. Dt~tcbwomenareranked lJihoutof ber21 51 atAchilles.Rink. Thetearn th-e 16 teams in the league. Coach wi11 remain at school during the Qt~istgard believes by the end of break as they take on Skidmore, th.e season his team willranked be- RPI and Williams during the first tween the Sth and 1 ou. spots. two weeks in December. Field Hockey Ends Season In 2-0 Loss To Hartwick In State Tournement by .rill. Brodsky & Yvonne Turchetti Contributing Writers This past Wednesday; October 28, the Union Women's Field Hockey team ended its season with a 0-2 loss to Hartwick Coll~ge in a New York State regional game. Hartwick went on to. win the New York State Championshiptbispastweekend. Union went into the State Tow- nament ranked fifth. Going up against fourth .. ranked Hartwick; Union played ~ very emotional game. After a heart-wrenching loss to Hartwick the week'before in the fmal regular season game, Union wanted to redeem.itself. Early in the f'ust half, Hartwick got off a blistering shot during a penalty corner which was headed for the light corner of the cage, but senior co-captain Tara Blagys was able to deflect it away keeping the score tied at 2ero~ Blagys' spec- tacular save helped to set Union's defensive ton.e for the game. Be- ing pressured often, the Union de- fense never backed down ~ often stepping up to cut off llartwick 1 s attempts of long, forward passes. Hartwick scored its first goal half-way thi-ough the fiiSthalf dur- ing a scramble in ftont of the Union goal cage. Ina frenzy, Union play- ersweremaking every effort to pre- vent a goal- with sophomore Claire Currie and freshman Yvonne Turchetti even diving onto the turf to take away scoring opportunities. To Union's dismay, their attempts were unsuccessful, and Hartwick was able to push the ball into the cage. Coming out in the second half, Union raised its intensity level even more. The forward line, con· sisting of juniors Susan Joyal and Jackie Eatz and sophomore Kathleen Healy, created. numerous fast-break situations. Unfortu- nately, Union was unable to capi· talize. Union's greatest scoring oppor- tunity came on a penalty comer with seven minutes remaining. Senior co-captain Carrie Heroth's fake off of Slloko Okado 's {'99) stickstop drew the defense; en- abling Heroth to fmd Blagys who rocketed a shot on goal. A Hartwick defender made a phenom- enal save which protected their 1- 0lead. With less than two minutes re. maining, Union pushed many of its defenders up in a last effort to tie thegwne. Unfortunately, the short- age of defense createdafmal scor- in~ opportunity for Hartwick. This game was riot only the last gme of the season for the 1998 Uni()D Field Hockey team; it also marked the end of three tremendous careers for seniors Tara Blagys, Carrie Heroth, and Shako Okado. Tllese four-year starters' contribu- tl()nsto the Women's Field Hockey pr()gram will be greatly missed ne:xt season. The Dutchwomen ended their · season with an 8-7 record overall an-d finished third in the Upstate · ColLegiate Athletic Association. Six of these seven losses were to na- ti()nally ranked teams. After an ab· sence :from the New Y()lkState Tour- ntunent last year,. Union made a strong statement with its number five state ranking, hoping to estab· · !ish a precedent for years to come. The Union Women's Field Hockey team would like to thank all oftheir loyal fans for their sup- port. It also would like to recog- nize head coach Tracy Barclay and assistant coach Linda Bevelander for an outstanding season. The team also would like to thank its three seniors for their dedication to the Union Field Hockey pro- gram. Write Sports! I Come to an informa- tional meeting the first Thursday of next term, at 6:30 in room 303 of the College Center

I ,, • ~ - ._ ··- • 4 - • > • ~. - ... £ - ... - .... H-.ow·- Goo,d.Ar;e:,.The¥'1-·: T;he~ Rise~of~_th!e:·.AFC .East . by David Wemer. . ... . .. a ~espectable te~ t_hat,e~e~~n~~ . 'Is 1be. type .?i ~l~ye~ ~a( ~an ' ·an~ barely mi~~~~~ th~ pla!offs. .~e.nders. fo~. ~ofu the division title, Sports Edito/ fears due to Dan M~o~s arm;. but earzy a ·team for along tun.:e. · Dur- ':Under the tutel~ge oflltll Parcells, ·.but mo11e lmp()rtantly~ a playoff somehow they m~a~e to finish _8- ing ,that five game win streak;~the. this team is_ one to be }:'ec~o:qed spot, it i&.clear that every game 8 every year an~ miss tl}e piaroffs. Bills have manage4 tO compile a2-· wii:li. 'the¥ are'also'tied for'fJrSt~ , counts. ·Abltough the season is The New York Jets are another · I division record. . · the AFC East, but are tlndefe~ted only 'half over, the tone has been team that evecyon~ seems to look the Dolphins 'one~ .~g~ have·· in lh.e (livision, technically puffing . set for th~ fmal eight games. Of pa8t. . Last season aside,, they h~e begun their season well on the ann ' theni ih fU:stplace.above the~other .the fot,fi~ams tied right now in. tlle been.the peremihil doon;ha't ofth~: ofDan Marino and the st:rengtli 6t fotirteams. Lastlycoilietlur'Pattf.: l\FC E~st! the Patriots have tlle Where have these teams come from? Jusifom or five years ago, they were teams that no one wor:- ried about. 'Qte JetS, Dolphins,. or even the ?atriots and Bills were mediocre Nf:L teams. at b~st and . were never even considered Super Bowl cot;~tenders. There. wa.s no . competition, really, for the division championship as the Patriots have secqred_·th~t title' for thi;q)ast four years .and it has been' a stretch for anotherAFC.Eastteam to reach the playoffs. Well, that is a,H history now as after nine weeks of this ·NFL ; . . . . -· ;·_ . . . hardest se:ll~duletemainfng as tile \ .. . . . . . \·\ te~): ~~)'.play .have a combined . . . ~ season, all four teams are tied with records of 5-3 and the possibility of all four teams reaching the play- offs is not aU that far-fetched. Back in the late eighties and early nineties, the Buffalo Bills were the powerhouse of the AFC East and seemingly the powerhouse of the AFC. They reached the Super Bowl fom straight years and w4ile they were unable to bring the Lombardi trophy back to Buffalo, they did consistently steam roll through the.ir division. Now, in. the mid to late nineties, it has been the New England Patri- ots who have led the division. Dating back to 1995, the Pats have won the division, and in 1996, they followed the play-off road all the way to the Super Bowl. With the pa.st decade .of promi-; nence split between the Bills and Patriots, there has not been much competition from other divisional teams. The lndiamipolis Colts have o~e good seaso.p, with ''Captain Coniback\ Jim Harbaugh in 1995, but that year aside, they have been near the cellar every season. The Miami Dblphins have always been :' .- AFC East, consistently finishing with a mere one or two wins every season. This seaso,n, however, is quite different than seasons past. Nine weeks into this season, four of these five AFC East teams are serious contenders both for a play- . . off spot and possibly-to reach the Super Bowi. The Bills, after start- ing' their seascn 0-3, have man- aged ·to win five straigbt games behind the wiley Doug Flutie. AI- . thou ill this team q~ay be riding the emotional wave that he has pro- vided during the past few weeks, • .. · · .:f!}' · · ··· ·~ ''· \'' wlnning.percentage of.609 while _,...,... •-- 1 ~ ''# .! •.· •• the Jetstemaiiling competitionhas ' I' ' • • ~ ·' . . • . notbeeil as successful with a Will- nfugpercentage ofonly .413, The theif'kicking game as they have won a number of games by a mere field goal. Nonetheless, the Dol- · phins are tied for frrst place with their 5.,3 record and although they have fallen apart late in the season during recent years, they are look- ing strong this season. Their AFC ... East record stands at 3-2. The Jets have seen ;the biggest tum around in the past few years. Three' years ago, this team was just 1-15. Last season, they experienced the big- gest turnaround of any team in the NFL, fmishing the season at 9-7 ·: w.irinfng piji:centage of the Dcl- .~-- ' . pqins ani:IB~lls remainitigcompeti- tion liessom~wliete in betweentllat · -ofthe Pats and Jets. Keeping tltis · inmind, tluilikely prediction is that ·~ ~.: the· Jets will reach the playoffs - · \· alongwitll either the Bills or D<>l• ots, the division winner last year and this year's favorite to win the division. After losing their season opener, th~y put together a feur game ~iri streak before dropping two division games in a row to the Jets apd'Dolphin:s. •rrt'1he coming weeks, they willbe looi<fug for tet.: . ribution as it is uli:likely 'they will- ' • • . ' t ~ • • ~ . lo~e ~o ~y te~ ~~ce ~ ~e· se~~,. son. Tbelf record m the div1sioq is: a ·mete 2-2, but th~y are obviously looking to iniprove·when they head to'Buffalonext week. With.allfourteamsserious conM: phins simply because they have easier schedules. Predictiolls, however, never seem to ring true in the AFC East, especiall:ythis season as each time there has been an AFC East divi- siori match·oup, it has been the un- derdog who has emerged victori- ous. Wiitli eight games for each team remaining in this wacky sea- son, it is impossible to know just ·what is g·oblg to happen. The key thing to remember, though, is tlut the Patri<Jts ·and Bills have both won the division at one point in the past decade and have experi- enced tl'le· pressure that comes with the pi~yoffs.. The Dolphins, bu( more il~p9rtant1y, the J~tS;o have.nevifr had the oi:iportunity' to . experienc'e that press:ure. This fact. will most definitely playa.key·ro le late in the season as those teams with ihd ekperience have also :f~it th~ pressure of getting to the play- offs. Who kriows what is going to happ¢n~ bui ~t will be exciting ~<>- · watch. GOPATS!! . Dutchmen of The Term: Dutchwomen ofTh.e Term: . ' . . \ \ . . ' - ' -· - . - . - Jim Kochan. Peter Flynn Kochan 1 eads the team in tackling with 46, 31 of which are unassisted. He also has two · quarterback sacks. During the season he has been named UCAA and ECAC \Defensive Player of theW eek\ and he has emulated what it takes to be a dedicated athlete. The Union . Football Program will miss Jim in the future and we wish him the best ofluck. Kill Rochester and Springfield!! ... Fylnn UCAA \Athlete of the Week\ twice, came in second .at the UCAA Championship meet and finished seventh at the Albany Invitational behind a handful of Division II ru.nners. At Albny, he completed the 5 mile course in 25:51. He has not yet ·qualified for Nationals, but will begin his quest next weekend. I Wo,men·'sSoccer Team After starting their season 1-1, the women's :soccer team won twelve straight games, finishing with the best record in the history on the program. Although the team was denied a birth in the NCAA tournament, they finished second in New York state and 16 in the nation. Standouts for the team include league scoring leader and UCAA \Rookie of the Year\ Katie Smith, UCAA \Coach of the Year\ Brian Speck, and UCAA first team \All- Stars\ Abby Harris, Stephanie Maychack, Missy Matusewicz, Jaymee Wilson, and Katie Smith. Their play was above and beyond that of any other women's team this term. Looking ahead to next season, they will lose three strong seniors, but hope for even better results for next season. They truly are the \Dutchwomen ofth.e Tenn.\

Page 22-• November 5, 1998 • <atnttarlrimsiSJ Sports How Good Are Tbev? The Rise of the AFC East b D -d W . a respectable team that every()llC ~ is the type of player that can and barely missing the playoffs. tenders for both the division title, ~ a~• Ed~;er fears due to Dan Marino's an:n,. bt:~t cany a team for a long time. Dur- -Under the tutelage ofBill Parcells, but more irnportantly, a playoff '~' 0 \'~ I Ol' h th t fi . L 8 . . ak th +L. • b k d . . some ow ey manage o mtsu · mg that five game wm stre , e mts team IS one to . e .rec Dne spot, 1t 1s clear that every game Where have these iteams come from? Just four or five years ago, they were teams that no one wor- ried about. The Jets, Dolphins, or even the Patriots and Bills were mediocre NFL teams at best and were never even considered Super Bowl contenders. Tllere was no competition, really, for the division championship as the Patriots have secured that title for the past four years and it has teen a stretch for another AFC Eas.1 team to reach the playoffs. Well, that is all history now as after nine -weeks of this NFL season, all four teams are tied with records of 5-3 md the possibility of all four teams Jreachtng the play- offs is not alii tha1 far-fetched. Back in the late eighties and early nineties, the Buffalo BiHs were the powerhouse of tile AFC East and seemingly the powerruouse of the AFC. They reached the Super Bow I four straight yeus and while they were unable to bring the Lombardi trophy back to Buffalo, they did consistently steam ron through their division. Now, in the mid to late nineties, it has been the New England Patri- ots who have led the division. Dating back to 1~95, tlle Pats have won the division, and in I 996, they followed the pla>'·offroad all the way to the Super Bowl. With the past decade of promi- nence split between the Bills and Patriots, there ha:s not been much competition from otherr divisional teams. T'1e Indiaruapolis Colts have one good season with \Captain Comback.\ Jim Harbaugh in 1995, but that year aside, they have been near the cellar every season. The Miami Dolphinsltave aJways been 8 every year and miss tbe pla:y()ff$, Bills have managed to compile a 2· with. They are also -tied for first jn counts. AUlumgh the season is The New York Jets are all ether 1 division record. the AFC East, but are undefeated only half over, the tone has been team that everyone seems t() lo()k The Dolphins once again have in the division, technically putting . set for the final eight games. Of past. Last season aside, they ha'i\e l>egun their season well on the arm them in first place above the other the four teams tied right now in the been the perennial doormat of tile of Dan Marino and the strength of four teams. Lastly come the Patri- AFC East, the Patriots have the AFC East, consistently finis.hi11g with a mere one or two wins evety season. This season, however, is quite different than seasons JlllSL Nine weeks into this season, bur of these five AFC East teams are serious contenders both for a pla.y- off spot and possibly to reach tl!e Super Bowl. The Bills, after s.tart- ing their season 0-3, have maJl- aged to win five straight games behind the wiley Doug Flutie. Al- though this team may be ridingt11e emotional wave that he has proC- vided during the past few weeks, their kicking game as they have v,ron a number of games by a mere field goal. Nonetheless, the Dol- IJ!'tins are tied for first place with their 5-3 record and although they have fallen apart late in the season dtuing recent years, they are look- ing strong this season. Their AFC ,East record stands at 3-2. The Jets have seen the biggest tum around in the past few years. Three years ago, this team was just 1- I 5. Last season, they experienced the big- ge:st turnaround of any team in the NFL, fmishing the season at 9· 7 ots, the division winner last year and this year's favorite to win the division. After losing their season opener, they put together a four game win streak before dropping two division games in a row to tl1e Jets and Dolphins. In the coming weeks, they will be looking for ret- ribution as it is unlikely they will lose to any team twice in the sea- son. Their record in the division is a mere 2-2, but they are obviously l()oking to improve when they head to Buffalo next week. With all four teams serious con- hardest schedule remaining as the teams they play have a combined winning percentage of ;609 while the Jets remaining competition has not been as successful with a win· ning percentage ef only .413. The winning percentage of the Dol- phins and Bills remaining competi- tion lies sernewhere in between that of the Pats and Jets. Keeping this in mind, the likely prediction is that the Jets will reach the playoffs along with either the Bills or Dol- phins simply because they have easier schedules. Dutchmen of The Term: Predictions, however, never seem to ring true in the AFC East, especially this season as eacl:l time there has been an AFC East divi- sion match -up, it has been the un- derdog who has emerged victori- ous. With eight games for each team remaining in this wacky sea- son, it is impossible to know just what is going to happen. The key thing to remember, though, is that the Patriots and Bills have both won the division at one point in the past decade and have experi- enced the pressure that comes with the playoffs. The Dolphins, but more importantly, the Jets, have never had the opportunity to experience that pressure. This fact will most definitely play a key role late in the season as those teams with the experience have also felt the pressure of getting to the play- offs. Who knows what is going to happen, but it will be exciting to watch. GOPATS!! Dutchwomen of The Term: Jim Kochan Peter Flynn ·. ,, \ \• ~ • ,; 'I • ·• 1', Kochan le:ads the team in tackling with 46,. 3 1 of which .are unassisted. He also has two quarterback sacks. During the season he has been named UCAA and ECAC \Defensive Player of the Week\ and he has emulated what it takes to be a rledicated athlete. The Union football Program will miss Jim in the future and we wish him the best ofl uc:k. Ki II Rochester and Springfield!! twice, came in second at the UCAA Champions.h:ip meet and finished seventh at tile Albany Invitational behi11d cthandful of Division II runners. AtAibny, he completed the 5 rnile course in 25:51. He has 11ot yet qualified for Nationals, but will begin his quest next weekend. Women'sSoccer Team ,.... . .i:<' ....: . \' • > ,. .. :. ~ l ~ • .._ • .... • .u,~ • ,.... ~ . After starting their season 1-1, the women's soccer team won twelve straight games, finishing with the best record in the history on the program. Although the team was denied a birth in the NCAA tournament, they finished second in New York state and 16 in the nation. Standouts for the team include league scoring leader and UCAA \Rookie ofthe Year\ Katie Smith, UCAA \Coach oftlte Year\ Brian Speck, and UCAA first team \All- Stars\ Abby Harris, Stephanie Maychack, Missy Matusewicz, J aymee Wilson, and Katie Smith. Their play was above and beyond that of any ()ther women's team this term. Looking ahead to next season, they will lose three strong seniors, but hope for even better results for next season. They truly are the \Dutchwomen of the Term.\ -l !

~tle, 'Off me tis ~en Of tile tlte tile 1ed iile a as ill- ~he ol- ~ti- hat his hat ffs ol- Ne 'er ~t. ne vi- m- ri- ch ~a- 1St ey 1at ·111 ill ri- es tS, ;s;. f(). ,ct. le ~s llt y- t() to. ,. l 1 I r ' Sports Unioh KnOcks 'Down Undefeated Hartwick 30-14 . Freshman·:steve Moraih.its. ·a record )ive fl~ltlgoats in Dutchmen's third straight vctory by David Brook$ . . · Sporl$ Editol: . · goat on.tbei;l~idngdriverorthe opted to· go rora'two-pomt c~n.- men.. wlth.s:.l4togqm.theth~d Hawks, . ~ey·'fumbie(i and· version: Gilbert stepped back ~o qUJWt~r:iheOI.!~ch.menengin~e~d Wimberly'recqver(;donHanwick's P!lSs, and found O'Donnell in the a 6{hyard drive; .~ith Freese ruri- Forthesecondtime'thisseason~· I7-yardline .. ;Morafs;J.'8-y~dfield. corner ofthe ·endzone for the n~J?f~r.$,~-~at;ds. -~fter contr?l- the Fighting Dutchmen eiid~c.fth~if go,al was wide i¢tt~ and theJlawks n~eded two.:.points. The Outch- ling the bft.{l JOf.SlX1111pUtes, the drive - opponentshopesofatJ.undefeated againtQokover,. ·· ······ -mennowleacfl4-7. · · ended ~ith ·another·Morai field seas()n, handilybeatmjfpreviously There see-med to be a ·case of The defense stopped the I{awks goa), this one a 23 yarder. .Uildefeated HartWick College 30-14: fumbie-itjs attheAll- Weather Field; . again on fourth and one .:from their On Union'snext possession they ()n a cald.and windy\SatUrday:af· as the Hawksagain fumbled whiCh own 44-yar~ line, as Tipson v/as· .. again clrove down the field, and te:rnoon, Union's offense ·o~c~ was ,picked up by Griftm and re- · · st~pped for a ()ne•yard 'loss. on· · · called on Morat. Morat came in again came out strong behind the · tumed26 yards. . ·:the next play, Gil~ert ~gain hit · fora32'-yardfieldgoal. This would powertblarmoffreshmanquarte'r-. With first and goal from the O'Dollhell.for a 29-yardcomple- beMoratrecordbreakingfifthfield =back Ben Gilbert and solid leg of seven, Union could not p~ch it . tion. Matt Laporta was given the . goal of the game, which he easily 'freshman. place kicker'SteveMorat:. . in, again calling on Morat who hit ball and ran over the defenders for .. · made. . Morat set a Dutchmen record with' · · five field goals in ·the game, ~d · (filbert connected on ) 8 ·Of 2'1' passes for 246 yards .and:· 3: touch\l. · down. Hartwick College, located on top· «<fa hill in Oneonta, is hoine to the · · 11ot so cleverly named \A~J .. · Weather Field''·(turfsuiface)which · lo()ks like an Arena Football field, C()Inplete With 12 foot high· cham link fence surrounding the field, just three yards away from the playing sUiface. L\\'\\'~·.t-~~1:')~,.:,·: 'The game·started with theteam's ex::changing posse·ssion. After Union won the coin toss and de- ferred to the second half, the Hartwick Hawks sent starreceiver Aikens down field, and quarter- L;Z:::::~~~ Union led 30-14 with just unaer lOmin- utes to go in · the game, and efense would come up strong, not allowing the Hawks to score, and the offense ran out the dock giving the Dutchmen · thirdwin improving their record to ~~;;~~~5-2. Aaron Braunstein/TC The of- baock Tipson, tossed the ball to Halfback Onorata who tried to hit Kasey Keenan and Devon Wimberly bring down the Hartwick running back fense again Aiken~downfield. Howevet,itwas -- ........... ------------------------------ played very Devoll Wimberly who got to the a 25-yatd field goal giving the a 14-yard touchdown run, giving well gaining 352 total yards and ballf~rst,startingthegamewithan Dutchmena6-0leadwith 1;42to Uniona21-7leadwith7:20togoin was led by. Gilbert who had 242 illterception. go in the first quarter. thehalf. yards and no interceptions. Unfortunately, one play later, The Hawks got there offense to- The Hawks struck again with an Gilbert's fav{)rite .receiver seemed tailback Jasper Mills was hit for a gether and dfove.down the field, 18-yarl:l touchdoWnpass'toAikens to be O'Donnell who hauled in .sevenyard loss a'i well as fumbling highlighted by a 44-yard pass to closing the gap to 21- I 4 with 3:20 seven catches for87 yards. Freese tb~baU, giving the Hawks the ball Aik:ens,andconclu<Ungwitha2l~ to go in the half. However, after led the rusliing attack with .61 ()Jl Union's 28 yard line: The de:. yard touchdown pass to Johnson. Joe Attanasio ran back 33-yards on yards, followed by Laporta who fe11se came up big and stopped The PAT was good, and The thekickoffanddrewa 15-yardpen- had33-yards including his l4•yard Flartwick on fourth and 14, giving' Jlawks led 7..,6 with 14:09 to go in alty for a late hit, Union took over touchdown run. Much credit goe.s TJnion the baUon their own 33-yard ' the half. · on Hartwick's 40-yard line. Six to the offensive line of Greg Will- lille. . The kickoff appeared to travel plays and 26-yards later, Morat iams, Tom Jenne, captain Dave After Gilbert connected with out of bounds, whiclt would have corinected on his third field goal Barclay, Nick Barna, and Pat Fo:rtin, ~rfan O'Donnell for a 13-yard given Un~on the ball on the 3$-yard ofthe day, this one a 33 yarder. who created the holes for the run- pickup, Mills was handedthe ball, line, but the Umpire called it a Hartwick attempted a 58-yard ning backs and gave Gilbert the tllen bit hard, fumbling again, and touchback, and the offen~e t()ok field goal to close the half,. butthe time and prot~ction he needed for Hiartwi<:k recovered on their own over on the 20-yard line. Those ball only made it to the ten~ yard the 242·yardshe gained. 47-yard line. Mills left the game 15-yards would not matter as G:il~ line, and Union headed into half- The def~nse was led by with a separated right shoulder and bert led the offense on an 80-ya:rd time with a 24-14lead. Wimberly wh<l had nine tackles, an wollld not return. drive. Gilbert connected with Dan At halftime.Coach John Audino interception, a fumble recovery, After Hartwick punted away, Hamister for a 30-yard pass, and \We need to run the ball a little andaforcedfumble. When asked Vnion took over and drove 25- ended the drive With a foi:rr-yard more'' They did just that, handing if Aikens was tough to guard, yards d()wn the field and the drive touchdown pass to tight end Dan the bali off to sophomore Matt Wimberlyreplied\Ofcourse he is <Jndiedwith a 39-ya:td Morat field Bamford. Union led 12-6, and Freese, Wh011Ulhardfor.theDutch- agreatplayer. He's the only player who score~ on me this year. He runs a great pattern, but we pre- va~led in the end.\. Wimberly added, ' 1 We believe in U. We be~ lieve fu ~lirselves and we weren't ~onied abolltTips_on at all.\ SeQJor captain John Visconti also had a. very strong game, comirlg up with: six tackles and tnree quar- terb~ck' sacks. Visconti said ••Jt was obvious. we had to concen- trate on. the passing attack this week. But we were ~ble to come in here an_d stopped th~m.\ Coach Audin() said, \This win shows· the character and type of program we have. I wish we had Alfred and Hobart back, but toda:y was a great\wi:n for us.\ He added \We wanted to sh~ot down tlte offense, and we did just that. We let up three big plays in the first half, but our defense played really well after that.\ Heading into the home stretch of the season, the Fighting Dutcll- men play Rochester this weekend, a0·8team thathaslost 12 inarow and 29 of their last 30. Coach Audino said,\ We can't get caugltt from behind this weekend.\ The win last weekend was a huge win for the team and its playoff chances. This is their second win against a nationally ranked team and Union has rebounded very well after losing two games in the middle of the season. With tw() weeks left in the season, every game is a must win situation, but with the defense only allowing three touchdown in the last three games and the offense averaging 34 points a game, the team appears tough to beat. Inside Tlte Huddle Devon Wimberly was named UCAA \Defensive Player of the Week\ Steve Morat was named UCAA \Rookie of the Week\ and Jolul Visconti, Brian O'Donnell, and Ben Gilbert were named to the UCAA \Honor Roll'~ E.C. StuinJlf h()pes to return to the lineup this weekend against Rochester after hurting his left knee against Rensselaer. Mike Visconti also is looking forward to returning after re-agg~rvating his left ankle agianst Hattwick -:Passina: Comp/Att Yards 'ID ~ 1Nf BenGilbert I 8/27 246 1 0 Dutchmen Details R11sbing Matt Laporta Matt Freese Receiving Brian O'Doimell Dan Hamister Idris Abdul-Aziz Defense John Visctonit Devon Wimberly Dom Pitaniello Jim Kochan ·:· .. JIO;batt ... UNtON . . R:e11sselaer $1. · JlWJ'enc:e Att Yards 7 35 21 61 Catches Yards 7 87 4 78 3 44 Solo Tackles 3 4 5 2 1D Long 1 14 0 12 m U>ng 0 29 0 30 ·o 39 \ Tackles INT Sacks 6 0 3 9 l 0 7 0 1 8 0 0 -

rts itle, roff une 11 is ~een Of the the the tled 1ile has rin- fhe lol- eti- :hat his hat 1ffs lol- tve rer 1St, me vi- m- lri- tch ~a- LISt ey 1at Jth in n- .es lS, ts, to lCt >le ns elt y- to to ~ ~= .~ ~ I r.: \ ~ ! % i [ ~~ ,.:: i , ) > ' t ., I Sports QJ:ntlCarm.ensis • November 5, 1 ~C)8 • Page 23 Union Knocks Down Undefeated Hartwick30-14 Freshman Steve Morat hits a recordjivefieldgoals in Dutchmen's third straight vctory by David Brooks Sports Editor For the second 1irne this season, the Fighting Dutchmen ended their opponents hopes of an undefeated season, handily beating previously tmdefeated Hartwick College 30-14. On a cold and windy Saturday af- ternoon, Union's offense once again carne out strong behind the powerful ann of freshman quarter- back Ben Gilbert and solid leg of freshman place kicker Steve Morat. Morat set a Dutchmen record with five field goals in the game, and , Gilbert connected on 18 of 27 passes for 246 yards and a touch- . down. Hartwick College, located on top of a hill in Oneonta, is home to the not so cleverly named \All- Weather Field\ (turf surface) which looks like an Arena Football field, complete with 12 foot high chain linlc fence surrounding the field, just three yards away from the playing sarface. goal. 011 the insuing drive for the Hawks, th.ey fumbled and Wimberly recovered on Hartwick's 17-yard line. Morat' s 38-yard field goal was wide left, and the Hawks again took CJver. There seemed to be a case of fumble-itis at the All-Weather Field, as the Hawks again fumbled which was picked up by Griffrn and re- turned 26 yards. With first and goal from the seven, Union could not punch it in, again calling on Morat who hit The game started with the team's exchanging possession. After Union won the coin toss and de- ferred to the second half, the Hartwick Hawks sent star receiver Aikens down field, and quarter- ......_ ___ ~......::..= back Tipson, tossed the ball to opted to go for a two-point con- version. Gillbert st~pped back to pass, and found O'Donnell in the corner of the endzone for the needed two-points. The Dutch- men now lead 14-7. The defense stopped the Hawks again on fourth and one from their own 44-yard line, as Tipson was stopped for a one-yard loss. On the next play, Gilbert again hit O'Donnell for a 29-yard comple- tion. Matt Laporta was given the ball and ran over the defenders for men. With 5: 14 to go in the third quarter, the Dutchmen engineered a 66-yard drive, with Freese nm- ning for 38-yards. A..fter control- lingtbe ball for six minutes, the drive ended with another Morat field goal, this one a 23 yarder. On Union's next possession they again drove down the field, an.d called on Morat. Morat came in for a32-yard field goal. This would be Morat record breaking fi,fth field goa] of the game, which he easily made. Union led 30-14 with just under lOmin- utes to go in the game, and defense would come up strong, not allowing the Hawks to score, and the offense ran out the clock and giving the Dutchmen their third win in a row and improving · their record to ~~==~~~::J 5-2. The of- Halfback Onorata who tried to hit Kasey Keenan and Devon Wimberly bring down the Hartwick running hack fense again Aikens down field. However, it was-------------------------------- played very Devon Wimberly who got to the a 25-yard field goal giving the a 14-yard touchdown run, giving well gaining 352 total yards and ball first, starting the game with an Dutchmen a 6-0 lead with 1:42 to Uniona21-7leadwith 7:20to go in was led by. Gilbert who llad 242 interception. go in the frrstquarter. the half. yards and no interceptions. Unfortunately, one play later, The Hawks got there offense to- The Hawks struck again with an Gilbert's favorite receiver seemed tailback Jasper Mills was hit for a gether and drove down the field, 18-yardtouchdownpasstoAikens to be O'Donnell who hauled in seven yard loss as well as fumbling highlighted by a 44-yard pass to closing the gap to 21-14 with 3:20 seven catches for 87 yards. Freese the ball, giving the Hawks the ball Aikens, and concluding with a21- to go in the half. However, after led the rushing attack with 61 on Union's 28 yard line. The de- yard touchdown pass to Johnson. Joe Attanasio ran back33-yards on yards, followed by Laporta who fense came up big and stopped The PAT was good, and The the kickoff and drew a 15-yard pen- had 33-yards including his 14-yard Hartwick on fourth and 14, giving Hawks led 7-6 with 14:09 to go in alty for a late hit, Union took over touchdown run. Much credit goes Uniontheballontheirown33-yard, thehalf. on Hartwick's 40-yard line. Six totheoffensivelineofGregWill- line. The kickoff appeared to travel plays and 26-yards later, Morat iams, Tom Jenne, captain Dave After Gilbert connected with out of bounds, which would have connected on his third field goal Barclay, Nick Barna, and Pat Fortin, Brian O'Donnell for a 13-yard given Uniontheballonthe 35-yard of the day, this onea33 yarder. who created the holes for the run- pickup, Mills was handed the ball, line, but the Umpire called it a Hartwick attempted a 58-yard ning backs and gave Gilbert the then hit hard, fumbling again, and touchback, and the offense took field goal to close the half, but the time and protection he needed for Hartwick recovered on their own CJver on the 20-yard line. Those ball only made it to the ten-yard the 242-yards he gained. 47-yardline. Millsleftthegame 15-yardswouldnotmatterasGil- line,andUnionheadedintohalf- The defense was led by with a separated right shoulder and bert led the offense on an 80-yard time with a 24-14lead. Wimberly who had nine tackles, an would not return. drive. Gilbert connected with Dan At halftime Coach John Audino interception, a fumble recovery, After Hartwick punted away, Hamister for a 30-yard pass, and \We need to run the ball a little and a forced fumble. Wllen asked Union took over and drove 25- ended the drive with a four-yard more\ They did just that, handing if Aikens was tough t() guard, yards down the field and the drive touchdown pass to tight end Dan the ball off to sophomore Matt Wimberly replied \Of course, he is ended with a 39-yard Mmat field Bamford. Union led 12-6, and Freese, who ran hard forthe Dutch- a great player. He's the only player who scored on me this year. He runs a great pattern, but we pre- vailed iR the end.\ Wimberly added, \We believe in U. We be- lieve in ourselves and we weren't worried about Tipson at all.\ Senior captain Jolm Vis.conti also had a very strong game, coming up with six tackles and three quar- terback sacks. Visconti said \It was obvious we had to concen- trate on the passing attack this week. But we were able tocome in here and stopped them.\ Coach Audino said, \This win shows the character and type of program we have. [ wish we had Alfred and Hobart back, bat today was a great win for tls.\ He added \We wanted to shoot down the offense, and we didjustthat. We let up three big plays in the first half, but our defense played really well after that.\ Heading into the horne stretch of the season, the Fighting Dutch- men play Rochester this weekend, a 0-8 team that has ]()st I 2 in a row and 29 of their last 30. Coach Audino said, \We can't get caught from behind this weekend.\ The win last weekend was a huge win for the team and its playoff chances. This is their sec()nd win against a nationally ranked team and Union has rebounded very well after losing two games in the middle of the season.. With two weeks left in the season, every game is a must win situation, but with the defense on Iy allowing three touchdown in the last three games and the offense averaging 34 points a game, the team appears tough to beat. Inside The Huddle Devon Wimberly was named UCAA \Defensive Player ()f the Week\ Steve Morat was named UCAA \Rookie ofthe Week\ and John Viseonti, Brian 0 'Donnell, and .Ben Gilbert were named to the UCAA \Honor Roll\ E.C. Stumpf hopes to return to the lineup this weekend against Rochester after hurting his left knee against Rensselaer. Mike Visc()nti also is looking forward to returning after re~aggervating his left ankle agianst Hartwick Passing Comp/Att Yards 1D BenGilbert 18/27 246 1 INT 0 Dutchmen Details Rushing Att Yards 1D l{)ng Matt Laporta 7 35 I 14 Matt Freese 21 61 0 12 Receiving Catches Yards 1D Long Brian O'Donnell 7 37 0 29 Dan Hamister 4 78 0 30 Idris Abdui-Aziz 3 44 0 39 Defense Solo Tackles Tackles INT ~acks John Visctonit 3 6 0 3 Devon Wimberly 4 9 I 0 Dom Pitaniello 5 7 0 1 Jim Kochan 2 8 0 0 1998 UCAA Football Standings Team w L Overall OffAvg JlefAvg Hobart 4 0 5-2 352.4 282.4 I UNION 2 l 5·-2 365.1 2<89.3 Rensselaer 1 1 5-2 453.9 304.4 St. Lawrence l 5 l-6 250.3 454.7 Rochester 0 4 0-8 297.8 461.1 -





