• c . ' ..... ott .. __ .,.. ....... _ ........ - ................ ~.- .. ,.. \Turbulence is life.force. It is opportunity. Let's love turbulence and use it for change.\ -Ramsay Clark AIM . ... VolumeCXXIL Numb~rXVII The StudentNelt'spaper oj\Unio11 College Since 1877 · · .· AprilS.. 1999 . ' ' . ' Sigma Delta Tau· Found Guilty of Hazing News: Watso:n Winner \Vins $22,000 Page World News: by Shaun Montana StaffWriter On Friday, March 12th. a letter was sent tothe families,members, . and pledges of Sigma De Ita Tau sorority fron1 Dean Alford, inform- ing them that SOT had been found guilty ofha~ing by the Conduct Committee. The ConductCortunit- tee rec<Jmmended that SDT not be allowed to continue pledging un- til Fall, 1999, that the current pledges n<Jt be allowed to live in The war in Kosovo co,ntinues ... the house until 2000-0 I, and that the sorority offer hazing aware- ness workshops, similar to those that Trl-Delta had a couple of years ago. In addition, Dean Alford m<Jdified these sanctions to include loss of housing and ·Social privileges for a year, a re- Sloan MillerffC These letters may not be seen on Potter House next year. .Page 10 strictio!l on their social activities SOT could choose who they ,------~----~. , to include only the coordination wished to hear their case, either the of hazing awareness pr<Jgrarns student Conduct Committee or an consistent with college policy, and administration official. The last two to include current sisters in the . Greek org~mi~ations to be brought disciplinary action. Jen DeLucca, . up on hazing charges, Delta Upsr- . the president of SDT, vtas in- Ion and Tri-Delta, chose the Con- formed of the sanctions on March du.<tCommittee and an administra- I2th. tor, respectively. Each was found Opinions: CaD for . minority pro- fessors \At any indication ofth:e abuse guilty and had sanctions leveled of power, the school has an obli- against them. When the Conduct Page 8 gation to step up, and not wait Committee conducts the hearing, ~....,-__,......__....,_...,....,.._~..-......--J 1 until it's a tragedy,\ Dean Alford they recommend sanctions, and the Sports: commented with regards t<J stu- Dean has the authority to modify dent regulations on coercive/dan- anything they recommend. gerous/disruptive behavior. The The whole process would have Conduct Committee says they en<lediftheConductCornrnitteehad don't agree with this per se, but follnd SDT innocent. they found SDT guilty of hazing. The hearing the Conduct Com- mittee held centered on two sepa· rate events. The first occurred on February 15th, when tw<J faculty members spoke to the Panhellenic advisor about SDT pledges wear- ing odd and distracting costumes to their classes. The second oc- curred on the night of February 16th, when a Union security officer found three cans of beer near the flagpole with a note signedby SD' f sisters that contained instructions for the finders to chug the beer. . When a group of women ap- proached the flagpole, the officer asked what they were doing, and they infonned him they were SDT pledges participating in a scaven- ger hunt. An investigation by Campus Security led to the collec- tion of other instruction notes re- lating to this hunt. The Conduct Committee was uncertain Df exa~tly what took place during the scavenger hunt. They believe it included, amon~ other things, going to a series of fraternities and singing songs or performing pantomimes. The Conduct Committee did not believe all the testimony they heard. The decision they made was based on the inappropriateness of wearing costumes to class and in- structing rn inors to chug alcohol. Alford believes the Conduct Com- mittee did \a great job, and I thought they were very coura- geous.\ It is possible for SOT to appeal this finding. However, because this occurred just before the start of Winter Tenn finals, the normal appeals process was suspended until after spring break, when finals were completed. The normal ap- peals process can happen anytime within ten days of notification of action being taken. The break in procedure was approved by Presi- dent Hull, so as not to interfere with anyone studying for final exams. SOT can appeal to have President Hull review the case if they believe that a procedural error was made in the case, new evidence has come into light, or ifthe imposed sanctions are unreasonably harsh Continued onpage 3 Women's Lax ranks 18th in the country. Union Security Fights Crime On Bikes Page 19 Inside CampusNews-3·. 0 .. . 8 'JJlnlotts ... ·. · ·· · . . . . . . . World News -·10 A&E-12 TecbiJOlogy··~ 1·7 . .. . .Sp(!tls: -~·.!'8 ' ()ur·E··Diail: \. ' ' ... :_: .. ;: ': :~ '.··; ,_.:_ .· ... - by Kate Schmidt Contributing Writer According to Campus Safety supervisor, Bob tomeck, \There have been three reports involving robbery attempts within the Union c<Jmmunity since the begin- ningofJanuary, 1999.\ In resp<Jnse to these incidents, Union security has upgraded their safety, by introducing a series of new defense services and crime prevention programs. Due to the growth of Union's campus, there has been an in- crease in concern fot the students' personal protection. Campus Safety is expanding with the com- munity to eliminate the opportu- nity for crime. The Security Bike Patrol is amidst the safety additions arriv- ing on campus in the near future. Students will be able l<J identify ··. concortt·· @ ···· · ~:S!~ ~~~~~ :~s~: ~~v;~~~~ -j,it,ftri£o!eiJit ,, uniforms, as well as by their top- . · · ·· · · · · · · · · · of-the-line equipment. Campus Safety officers Ed Teller and Joe Glassard show off the Colleges newest means of transportation & protection. TwoBikeOfficerswillbe instated, The future completion of the in addition to the usual walking Seward-West project will allow for guards and preventative security a new satellite office equipped with car. a bike headquarters ru; wellas fire The bikers will have thesame au- safety. Security hopes that the bik- thority and training as motorized ers • versatility for split I eve I terrain officers, including fi••st aidand two- and their quiet, low~ profile will al- way radios connected to the cen- low for the preventi<Jn of crime on tral dispatcher. campus. In additi()n to the Bike Patrol, a new Walking Escort Service has begun as of March 31 . \We have gotten a response from the student body that they would use a walking escort, rather than wait for the vehicle escort when it has become backed up,\ said Bob T()meck. The walking escorts will be sta- ti<Jned at both the informati<Jn booth in the campus center and at the circulation desk in the library. Students that are nearby either of these areas are encouraged to use the walking escorts to increase the ~vailability of the vehicle run es- corts. Campus Safety is hoping that the addition of this service will in- crease the accessibility ofthe vans and cut down on waiting time. Accord i11g to Tomeck, \The Es- cort System needs to be amended. Instead ofrunning from point A to point B, th.\ campu<; \\'\1Uld greatly benefit from a shuttle system. This Continued on page 4

.. ~ '< \Turbulence is life force. It is opportunity. Let's love turbulence and use it for change.\ -Ramsay Clark This Week News: Watson Winner Wins $22,000 Page World News: The war in Kosovo continuese .. Page 10 Opinions: Call for minority pro- fessors PageS Sports: Women's Lax ranks 18th in the country. Page 19 Inside Campus News- 3 Opinions- 8 World News -10 A &E-12 Features-14 Technology -17 Sports-18 Our E-mail concordy@ vu.union.edu SigiDa Delta Tau Found Guilty of Hazing by Shaun Montana Staff Writer On Friday, March 12th, a letter · was sent to the fam Hies, members, and pledges of Sigma Delta Tau sorority from Dean Alford, infoml- ing them that SOT hacl been found guilty of hazing by the Conduct Committee. The Conduct Commit- tee recommended that SDT Not be allowed to continue pledging un- til Fall, 1999, that the current pledges not be allowed to live in the house until 2000-0 I, and that the sorority offer hazing aware- ness workshops, similar to those that Tri-Delta had a couple of years ago. In addition, Dean Alford modified these sanctions to include loss of housing and social privileges for a year, are- striction on their social activities to include only the coordination of hazing awareness programs consistent with college policy, and to include current sisters in the disciplinary action. Jen DeLucca, the president of SOT, \-\as in- formed of the sanctions on March 12th. \At any indication of the abuse ofpower, the school has an obli- gation to step up, and not wait until it's a tragedy,\ Dean Alford commented with regards to stu- dent regulations on coercive/dan- gerous/disruptive behavior. The Conduct Committee says they don't agree with this per se, but thev found SDT guilty of hazing Sloan Millcrrrc These letters may not be seen on Potter House next yew: SDT could choose who they wished to hear their case, either the student Conduct Committee or an administration official. The last l\\ o Greek organizations to be brought up on hazing charges, Delra Upsi- lon and Tri-Delta, chose the Con- duct Committee and an administra- tor, respectively. Each was found guilty and had sanctions leveled against them. When the Conduct Committee conducts the hearing, they recommend sanctions, and the Dean has the authority to modify anything they recommend. The whole process would have ended ifthe Conduct Committee had found SOT innocent. The hearing the Conduct Com- mittee held centered on two sepa- rate events. The first occurred on February 15th, when two faculty members spoke to the Panhdlenic advisor about SOT pledges wear- ing odd and distracting costumes to their classes. Tht: second oc- curred on the night of February 16th, when a Union security officer found three cans vf beer ncar the flagpole with a note signed by sn· ( sisters that contained instructions for the finders to chug the beer. When a group of women ap- proached the flagpole, the officer asked what they were doing, and they informed him they were SDT pledges participating in a scaven- ger hunt. An investigation by Campus S~:curit: k:J tu thL· ..:ollcc~ tion of uthcr in~tnh:tiun IHlll::> re- lating to this hunt Tile Conduct C'omm ittt:e was uncertain llf L'\a~:tl~ \\hat to<J\ place during the ~cav~nger hunt. They hl·lit:\l' it imluded, amon~ other things. going tn a -;erie-; of fraternities and singing songs or performing pantomimes. The Conduct Committee did not believe all the testimony they heard. The decision they made was based on the inappropriateness of wearing costumes to class and in- structing minors to chug alcohol. Alford believes the Conduct Com- mittee did \a great job, and I thought they were very coura- geous:· ft is possible for SDT to appeal this finding. H m-.ever, because this occurred just before the start of Winter Term finals, the normal appeals process \'\as suspended until after spring br~,tk, when finals were completed. 'The normal ap- peals process can happen anytime wilhin ten day-; of nMification nf action being taken, The break in procedure was approved by Presi- dent Hull, so as notto interfere with anyone studying for final exams, SDT can appea 1 t0 llave Presidl:'nt Hull review the case ifthey helieve that a procedural error was made in the case, new evidence has come into I ight. or if the imposed sanctions are u nreasonahly harsh Continued on page 3 Union Security Fights Crime On Bikes by Kate Schmidt Contributing Writer According to Campus Safety supervisor, Bob Tomeck, \There have been three reports involving robbery attempts within the Union community since the begin- ning of January, 1999.\ In response to these incidents, Union security has upgraded their safety, by introducing a series of new defense services and crime prevention programs. Due to the growth of Union's campus, there has been an in- crease in concern for tile students' personal protection. Campus Safety is expanding with the com- munity to eliminate the opportu- nity for crime. ory Campus Safety officers Ed Teller and Joe Glassardshow off the Coflege :S newest means of transportation & protection Two Bike Officers will be instated, in addition to the usual walking guards and preventative security car. In addition to the Bike Patrol, a new Walking Escort Service has begun as of March 3 I, \We have gotten a response from the student body that they would use a walk in\ escort rather 0 • than wait fur the vehicle escort when it has become backed up,\ said Bob Tomeck. The walking escorts will he sta- tioned at both the information booth in the campus center and at the circulation desk in the library. Students that are nearby either of these areas arc encouragt:d to use the walking escorts to increase the availability of the vehicle run es- coJ1s. Campus Safety is hoping thm the addition of this service wi II in- crease the accessibility of the vans and cut down on waiting time. According to Tllmeck. ''The Fs- ~ort Systt:m needs to bt: amended Instead of running, from point A to pl1int R, tlll· (,unrlh \\ ,1uld great I~ benefit frnm a shutlk system This Contin ue£1 mr page 4 ~----------------~--~ The Security Bike Patrol is amidst the safety additions arriv- ing on campus in the near future. Students will be able to identify the Bike Officers by their vivid yel- low and black, custom designed uniforms, as well as by their top- of-the-line equipment. The bikers will have the same au- thority and training as motorized officers, including first aid and two- way radios connected to the cen- tral dispatcher. The future completion of the Seward- West project will allow for a new satellite office equipped with a bike headquarters as well as fire safety. Security hopes that the bik- ers' versatility for split levd terrain and their quiet. low-profile will al- low for the prevention of crime on campus.

Caii1pus Life Page 2 • April 8, .1999 • m.uucadriensis Security Incident Report· Sunday, March 21, 1999: Property Damage Suspicious Person Larceny Security Hazard Monday,March22, 1999: Property Damage Property Damage Tuesday, March 23, 1999: 9AM President's House west lawn area. Several ruts made by large vehicle. I :OSpm. Steinmetz Hall. Unknown person not identified trying to gain access to computer lab. No entry gained. l :30pm Steinmetz Hall; Theft of computer mouse. I :07pm Seward Place. Report of door discovered o.pen. Checked. All appears OK. I 0:30am Science and Engineering. Equipment damage and Equipment loss due to heavy rains causing flood. l0:38am Science and Engineering. Hazardous Material spill. (mercury). Source and contents cleaned up. Criminal Trespass Arrest 5:02pmSouth. Terrace Lam.:. Arrestofjuvenile. Previou$ly advised off campus on separate occassions. Criminal Mischief 12 :OOpm Raymond House. Graffiti found on walls. Wednesday, March24, 1999: Security Hazard Suspicious Persons Thursday, March 25 .. 1999: Larceny Friday,March26, 1999: No reports listed Saturday, March27, 1999: Criminal Mischief Criminal Mischief Criminal Mischief Arrest/Trespass I 2:32pm Schaffer Library. Problem with door alarm system •. 9:46pm Nott Memorial area.2 suspicious males attempting entry. Fled upon Officer's arrival. Unable to identify. 4:12pm Computer Center. Theft of control card from office. 5:00am Sigma Chi. Broken bottles. Suspect identified. o,nduct Charges filed. 6:05am West College. Damaged ceiling tiles. 7:25pm Nott Seward parking lot Smashed out rear window ofvehicle. Noth~ng taken. 9:33pm Fox Hall. Previously warned off juvenile loitering in-front ofF ox Hall. TIPS FOR CONFRONTING DANGER 1. Trust your instincts. If something \feels wrong\ (with a person, a building, a situation, etc.) something is probably wrong. Even if you don't know why you are uncomfortable, change your plans, move away from the person, get out of the area whatever is necessary to make the feeling go away 2. Know yourself. How do you react in crisis situations? Do you scream, cry, freeze? What might your personal defense options be? Every situation is d~fferent. 3. [ n any annoying or dangerous situation, you will be the best judge of what you need to do to handle the situation. There is no one \right\ approach. The following are some options that have been found to be effective. * Show your anger, not your fear. Although it is natura/to feel afraid, a frightened reaction generally does not stop an attack, a furious reaction often will. Remember an attacker wants an easy victim and will frequently back down from the prospect of a fight. Yelling may be one way of demonstrating your anger. Generally you do not want to insult the subject; rather yell \stay away\ or \don't bother me\ etc. There is a possibility showing your anger may cause the attacker to become violent, but it is more likely that he will .flee. * fjtilere are other people around, you can loudly call attention to what the assailant is doing (\Get your hands off me!\ \This man is bothering me\ and so on). Sometimes we are afraid that an embarrassed offender will try to retaliate, hut again it is more likely that he will flee. * lfsomeone has a weapon, stay calm andwaitfor an opportunity. You may be able to talk him into puttjng the weapon away, he may put the weapon down spontaneously, or he may be distracted for a moment. Weapons make .the situation more difficult and dangerous, but there still may be something you can do. Strate~ies for survival if confronted with assault: * Non-resistance to prevent physical violence * Negotiate * Stall for time * Distracting or diverting the assailant, then fleeing * Verbal assertiveness * Screaming, using a whistle or shriek alarm to attract attention or help * Physical resistance- techniques which may be used as a last ditch effort to es~ape an attacker. Announcements Term Abroad in India The Exchange Program to India for the Winter Term of 1999-2000 is open to all students at UnioiJ,. Interested students should conJact Ms. Salima Pasha or Prof .. .Jagdish Gajjaron the' second floor of ·Steinmetz Hall. Application deadline is April28. . Calling All Poets! The New York Poetry Alliance is sponsoring a free poetry contest, open to everyone. There are 28 prizes, with a $1000 cash prize going to tbe winner! To en- ter, send your .poem of 21lines or less to New York Poetry Alliance, Box 1588, New York, NY 10116. Baroque Da11ce Company Returns To Union Friday April, 16 at 8:0(1PM in Memorial Chapel, spend the evening with tbe Ken Pierce Baroque Dance Com ... pany. The night of dance and music will be narrated by Professor J\1cM .. Uen oftbe Performing Arts Department. On Thursday, April15, from 1:30PM to 3:20PM, She will conduct an Elizab~than dance workshop on the first floor of the Arts Buildi11g. Announcing the Ninth Anuual Charles P. Steinmetz Symposium May 7,1999 You can pickup an application and guidelines from the department secretaries or the Associate Dean's Office, S-100 Science and Engineering Building. Appli~ations should be turned in t() the department secretaries. All students who will go to NCUR.in Rochester are expected to present at the Steinmetz Symposium. RobertA von Smith Summer Research Fellowship in Bio-Medical Engineering at Union College. The fellowship is sponsored by Robert A von Smith, Class of 1952. It is awarded to students in the sciences or engi- neering .who participate in a summer re~earch program in bio-medical engineering under the guidance of Union College faculty. The award will be made available to a student selected on the basis of ability to conduct independent research in bio,.; j medical engineering tlnd commitment to the summer research program. Students interested should contact Professor J. Richard Sltanebrook in the Department of · Mechanical. Engineering. SENIORS If you are interested in speaking at the Baccalaureate or Commencement, submit a 1-4 page draft (approximately 5 minutes) to Judy Ludwig, Secretary to the Dean of the Faculty and member of the Conunen~ement Committee, by Friday, April16. The topic is yours to choose. Please include your n:ame, box number, and phone nwnber on your draft. If you are interested in singing or performing at the Bac~alaureate or Commencement, please submit your name to Judy Ludwig by Friday, April 16. If you would like more information about this, contact . Judy Ludwig at 388-6102 or at the Dean of the Faculty's Office on the second floor of Feigenbaum Hall. Auditions for speakers and singers will be held by the student members of the Conunencement Committee starting at 6:30PM on Tuesday, April 27 and Wedne:.:· day, April28. Sign up for an audition time when you submit your draft or name to Judy Ludwig. An Ad Hoc Committe Formed to Consider Tenurability of Susan Lehrman, Assistant Profess.or of the GMI Any member of the campus commu11i.ty who wishes to offer written or oral testimony concerning Assistant Professor Lehrman's teaching, scholarship or college service should contact Professor Hilary Tann at x6566, tannb@union.edu. Reappointment Review of Professor HyungjiPark Faculty, students and administrators familiar with Pro- fessor Park's teaching, s-cbolary activity, and/or college service are welcome to submit comments to Professor Bonney MacDonald, Chair of the English Deparment at macdonab@union.edu. s 0 ti c J \' a \ Si s e 1 tl li I< c E n fi 1 \ tl E h tl I\ p h '· ' E t1 p -b b tl I s il ) d

': Campus News Stud,ent Granted $22,000 to Travel Thoru.ghout Europe by Jessie;. Zuehlke News Editor If you 'had the opportunity to travel anywhere outside the United States for one full year, would you do it? What about if your time away was based on personal growth rather than academics? Woqld you consider? How about if you received a $22,000grant for the sole purpose of financing your trip? Does that sound 'fny more tempting? It was enough to entice Scott Stedman, the 49 1 h Union recipient oftheThomas J. Watson Founda- tion grant. The Watson Foundation was created hy the Ghildren of Thomas J. Watson Sr., founder of IBM. It was estab lishea for the purpose of awarding seniors the finances to \engage in a year of independent study and travel abroad.\ The 60 annual winners are se- lectedfi·om 49 of the couirtry'stop liberal arts colleges. ·Without the competition from larger universi- ties, students from Union have an amazing shot at this incredible. fel- lowship award. This. year's winner, N. Scott St~dman, spbmitted his proposal, entitled, \Linking Past and Present Through a Screenplay Based on the LifeofWalterBenjamin.\ Scott Ste'drnarr will leave for Ber- lin\\·Germany next October t(}fol-· low in the path of Germa11liferary . critic/writer/philosopher Walter Benjamin. He will travel the exact route Be!liamin took when fleeing from the. Fascists in Germany, in 1933. In his proposal Stedman states, \I am trying to identifY what a world that produced a· man like Walter Benjamin possessed, and how this has been lost today.\ Stedman's journey wil1lead him through Switzedand, Austria, Italy, Moscow and France. In his pro- posal, Stedman states that he hopes to \find the unique cultural 'aura' Iefton Benjamin's path.\ When he finishes travelling Benjamin's course, Stedman will re-- turn to Berlin to compose ascreen- playofhismentor's life. '~lalways Senior Watson winner N. Scott Stedmanplansfor his year in Europe. thought B·enjamin would make a personally significant.\ great ·screenplay,\ said Stedman. Other winning topics from col- \This life has so mmy rich elements leges around the country include tbat anyone with artistic sensibil- · a trip to Italy and Israel to write ity could take these and mold them within the Christian millennium, a into a magnificentst<;>ry.\ look at the tradition, ecology and Stedman,anEnglishmajorfrom community of fisheries in New Welsley, Massachusetts, and the Zealand and Chile, along with a wfounder of the Coffeehouse, ' study of the circus in France, Swit- leaves for Europe on September 1, , zerland, Denmark and the UK. '1999. · Travel must take place the year To be considered for the award, immediately following graduation seniors need· to submit an eight to i and must last a full year. Meade 10-page proposal oftheif journey : continues, \If you are willing to tllat includes a personal statement : overcome the hardships that ac- stating why they are considering ' company travelling alone, then this 1lleirtopic. could be the opportunity of a life- A team of Unio11 faculty over- time.\ looks the applicants and chooses Students should start thinking four finalists each year on the ba- about possible topics the spring sis of their written proposals. term of their junior year because According to this year's Chair- proposals are due by October l. person, Professor Theresa Meade, \Unfortunately too many seniors \Union usually has at least one or g~t bogged down with their thesis two winners ~very year.\ and decide notto write a proposal,\ She continued by stating that Meade said. Union only receives around 20 ap- If you are interested in applying, plications each round, compared sign up outside ofMeade's office, with other college\s hundred pro- 108 Social Sciences. posals. More students should take Also, keep an eye out for signs advantage of this incredible oppor- of the first informational meeting tunity to travel the world. to be held sometime in April.. It The topics of the voyages could be the opportunity of a life- \should be creative, feasible and time. Hazing Charges On Sigma Delta Tau or inappropriate. Repeated at- tempts to contact DeLucca were unsuccessful. When Concordiensis did get in touch with her, she offered \No comment at the time.\· Dean Alford asserted tnat \my hope is they will take the sanctions in earnest, and regain respect by teaching themselves abollt ha~ing and constructive ways to avoid it.\ What effect do these sanctions have? The loss of housing and their -housing pr~vileges means SDT will have to perform two actions to get those back: first, petitioning the Deans 10 have their privileges re- stored, and ifthis occurs, re-apply- ing for housing with the Student AffairsCouncil (SAC). The SAC deals will allissues of housing re- ••. continuedfrom page 1 newal and the appropriation of housing to differe11t groups, such as theme houses and Greek orga- nizations. The earliest time such a petition could be given to the Deans is April, 2000. If this oc- curs, Alford said he will consult the Conduct Committee and the Panhellenic Council before making a decision on approving a petition. At that point; depending on the availability of hottsing and the SAC, SDT may retllm to on-cam- pus housing. The SAC views housing as a privilege, and \when people have housing, they pro- foundly affect the campus,\ Alford commented. The future ofSDT's current house, the south portion- ofPotter House, is unknown. When asked about the severity of the sanctions, Alford com- mented, \Any time you issue dis- ciplinary sanctions, you balance doing the right thing to those in- volved with sending a message to communicate what the College stands for or against. This mes- sage is a warning, but also a reaf- firmation for tl10se who don't haze.\ For the future, Dean Alford hopes that SDT will \fulfill the terms of the sanctions and return as a strong, healthy sorority with- out hazing. But Union needs to make an unambiguous statement that we have no tolerance for haz- ing. We will continue·to work to improve the Greek system by am- plifying those aspects of it that enhance the community, and, when necessary, rooting out those that diminish Greek and campus life.\ April 8, 1999 • Page 3 N e\W Additions to ·Schaffer Library by Clark Jones Contributing Writer After a long and exhausting pro- cess, Union's Schaffer Library is finally among the elite libraries of any institution. A quick glance at the library might render images of a sad con- glomeration of new and old archi- tecture. However, once inside, any negat;i ve thoughts are washed away b::y the library's sheer size and substa11ce. From the brand new reading room and available Internet re- sources, to the computer and for- eign la11guage labs~ to tile updated time schedule, Schaffer Library is nothing less than impressive. As of the start of last week, members of the college community are able to relax qui_et)y and peace- fully while engulfed in anynurnber of cuFrent or bestselling novels. TheiJrand new reading area, im- mediately to the right as you walk into the library,nowoffers 350 new titles displayed in a bookstore-like way. Covers face outward, en- abling students and faculty to pe- ruse through the selection and read something they would normally not ch<Jose. Tom McFadden, library director, reconstructed the reading room with the hopes of \encouraging students to read what they nor- mally would not find within the sta<:ks. It offers a good selection of books displayed in an attractive way.\ Bodes in the reading area remain there filr three-four ltlo11ths beforr~ being moved into the shelve!? on the second floor. The library' pur- chases around 30 new novels a month <to add to the collection. All .tlte books in the reading room are those that anyone could pick out and begin to read in the comfortable chairs provided. The availability of the books and th.e convenience of having them located in one area gives the campus an opportunity to read sometlling unrelated to classes. Years ago, the Chi Psi Fraternity donated a plaque along with money for the purchase of new books to commemorate the 150m Anniversary ofthe college. At that time, a reading room was added to the 0 ld Schaffer Library. The old traditiCJn has now been revived in a comfortable, quiet setting. Alo11g with the addition of the reading room is a shelf of books labele<i \Internet Resources.\ These books are located near the computer terminals on the first floor and setve the purpose of helping students \find quality resources on the web faster and with less ef- fort,\ McFadden said. There are around 80 titles, updated fre- quently on topics ranging from questions about the getting into law school to alternative medicine on the Internet. These books are meant to give people an alterna- tive to using large search engines such as Yahoo! and Webcrawler. All fiction and nonfiction books from the reading room and the Intentet resources can te checked outforatwo-weekperiod. The computer facilities available in the library give students who don•t own computers access to arguably the best computers on the market. The Gateway 2000's con- tain all the necessary word pro- cessing tools, Internet links, and library searches. \Th.e new com- puter lab makes it easy for me to type papers iB a conducive envi- ronment,\ sophomore Paul Kilfoy states. With the expansion of the library's book space, the manage- ment was able to eliminate the te- dious process of retrieving books from the library's nearby storage for students who needed them right away. Now, every book the library owns is either on a shelf in the library, or checked out. \It just makes things a lot easier for those of us who need certain books im- mediately,\ junior Jeff Sproat as- serts. Another new and serviceable addition the library has is the aug- mentation of group study rooms. They provide students with ample space to do group work, and at the same time, eliminate the noise so often complained about in the old library. Since the library's comple- tion, these rooms have been a popular place for groups to meet, especially during midterm and fi- nal exam week. . While the new .additions have been completed for some time now, the most recent and affective change the library management made was the exteirsion of its hours. Previously, the library was open until II :00 PM,. which caused numerous problems and raised questions. Students were forced to leave during prime studying hours, and thus weren't provided with the quiet, studious environ- ment a college library should pro- vide at that time. How can college students, at an elite institution as Union claims it is, not be afforded a later closing time than ll :00? The library authorities addressed this issue and answered it with the later and more favorable closing time of 1:00AM. The student reaction has been that of appreciation and indiffer- ence. Many students don't utilize the later hours, however those stu- dents, whose schedules require it, now have the opportunity to work at the library until reasonable col- lege hours. \With my schedule, I start my work a little later than most. The new hours definitely help stu- dents like myself who need its re- sources later than 11 :00,\ sopho- more Craig Theisen states. The new hours are particularly helpful to se11iors writing their senior the- sis, ()f other projects of such mag- nitude. They need the resources at all hours, and now they are avail- able to them. Tile new Schaffer Library is now fully completed and provides just about everything a college student needs. With the writing center now in the library, and all the necessary tools avaiJable, the library is now in the upper echelon of college li- braries. Regardless ofhow it looks, it's a first-class operation.

Page 4 • April 8, 1999 • Ollllttodriensis Campus News \Dialouges on Race'' Kickoff Professor Interests Child·ren In Science by Kimberly Robback A&E Editor This Tuesday marked the Kick- Off Ceremony for this year's se- quel to Dialogues On Race at Old Chapel. An audience made up of approximately 45 people met at 4:00 to participate in a workshop on controversial issues in need of dis- cussion. The theme of this year's talks is \Union Unite.'' The Peer Facilitators conducted a survey last tem1 to establish what issues students and faculty felt were in need of discussion on campus. The topics they decided to include were, homophobia, racial tension, religious diversity, and gender bias. The ceremony on Tuesday be- gan with an introduction by Stu- dent Forum President, Beth Werzbeniec. The other coordina- tors of the events gave briefintro- ductions. They included Karena Cronin, Chad Robertson, and Peggy Sarnedi of Peer Facilitators, and Rob Bennet the Vice-President of Multi-cultural Affairs. Bennet said thatthe dialogues were an \ex- cellent opportunity for the Union College campus to come together, and to understand, respect, and celebrate our differences.\ After the student introductions, Brian Wright, the Executive Direc- tor of Schenectady County Human Rights Commission, began his pre- sentation. The commission is re- sponsible for the protection of the human rights of all those working in Schenectady under Title 7. Wright began the workshop by setting a scenario, where the audi- ence members were all members of the Town of Colorful. The resi- dents ofthe fictitious town, lived in a remote area of the country. While the residents pay taxes to the country's government, govern- ment services hardly have any con- tact with them. The government people no almost nothing about the people who live there, and up until yesterday had no reason to. Unfortunately, as the role play con- tinued, the town was struck by a natural disaster, and Colorful was flattened by high speed winds, rain, and floods. Members from the audience were randomly assigned to become part ofthe government Task Force. They were handed badg;esand in- structions, and were told t<l con- vene outside. Their overa:ll obj ec- tive was to \help\ the pe()ple of Colorful. Whilethegroupmetout- side, therest of the audience mem- . bers were handed theirow11 set of instructions and background infor- mation. Women weretoldthat they by Lisa Carbone Contributing Writer could only speak to other women, . Not only is Charles Scaife a wen:.. and men only to other rnm. The · known chemistry professor at only acceptable answers tllat the . Union, but he has also become a residents could give rnetr1l>ers of renowned individual throughout the Task Force, were \yes~' :i'fthey . the country. smiled, and \no\ if the:y did not. • His success was inadvertently The point of the exercise was to achieved by reaching out to e)- awaken ourselves to the difficul- ementary school children thwugh ties involved in helping or simply hands-on science eXoperiments. communicating with peoplethat we Throughout the years, he has do not understand, witn iMn im we constantly found that elementary do not come into contact. school teachers fear science and The exercise was a success as took unprecedented step~ to re- was the rest of the worksn op. De- lieve this conception. spite the efforts macle by the ltallbeganin 1994whenProfes- group, the tum out for this year's sor Scaife was approved for a sab- Kick-Offwas less than last year's. batical to teach hands-on. science The Peer Facilitators and Student in elementary schools all over the Forum would like to eJCtend their northeast. gratitude to Mike Winnf<Jr'h]s pub- He feels that teachers do notre- licity work, and the IEG f<»rfund- ceive eno1:1gh science education in ing the refreshments being served college and, therefore, tend to shy at all of the talks. Hopefully en- away from it. \Those who do teach thusiasrn for the rest of tile week science are more apt to only use a will increase as the diabgt.~es con- textbook, which is often a tum-off til::~ue. to children,\ says Scaife. The schedule of events fr()m to- Consequently, more and more day are as follow: Thursday, April children are finding science dull 8 1 \ Gender Bias discussion at the Professor Scaife sees the impor- Smith House dinner at 6:0(); and tance in helping·children actually Religious Tension d,ial<lgue at \do\ things involving science and Davidson at 8:00, and at 1):30 at left with this intellt. Alpha Epsilon Pi. Friday, April 9th, Professor Scaife's rigorous a religious tension dismssion and schedule included teaching all day, dinner at the Kappa Alpru Liter- an after-school teachers workshop, ary Society at McKean House. and an evening program for both Sunday, April Jlth, a Race Rela- children and their parents. tions brunch at Old ChaJ>el at 1:00. With the help ofhis wife, he was Monday, Apri!J2th, Race· ltelations able to cover about 14 sections per dialogues at Fox at 8 :()0., and at day, witnessing hundreds offasci- SigmaPhiat 8:30. Tuesday,April nated faces. l3 1 h, an open forum at tlte Coffee- Scaife added, ''Surprise is a big house at 8:00. Wednesday, April element of all they do, because it 14th, a discussion on hoi11ephobia hooks kids.\ at Old Chapel at 7:00. 'Thursday, For example, astonishing experi- April 15 111 , another disctJ~si on on ments include seeing which ob- homophobia at Old Chapel, <tnd the jects are attracted to a magnet or Closing ?arty Saturday, April J7th, using or~inary kitchen chemicals at 10:00 atOld Chapel. Facuhyand on colored paper to understand the students are encouraged t<>· partici- effects of acids and bases. pate in all of the events. Only we After school, the one-hour work- can make our campus a pl.ace that shop was intended to \bring teach- encourages and celebrates i.ndi- ers on board.\ viduality, andonethatresi>'ectsour He believes that \touching a differences. child may be temporary, but by ----------------------------f touching teachers, the effects participate for heighten support, The purpose of the evening pro- gram was communication among parent an:d chiid with the help of science. This proved to be a successful bonding experience as many par- ents told Professor Scaife that this was the most interactign they have had with their children in a while. Yet when he returned to Union in August, things were fat from nor- mal Professor Scaife was heavily observed by the media in New York City and qutckly appeared on the cover of the Wall Street Journal. He recalls the phone exploding with calls, including requests from \If you actually 'do ' something with science, kids are going to get excited about it!\ the West Coast, as soon as here- turned to U nio11. He feels that his life has been significantly changed .bY this experience. \When we came back, there was no stopping,\ remarks Professor Scaife. Due to the fact that one can only do so much, Professor Scaife felt that multiplication was necessary. Therefore, in the fa112-3 training sessions are held at Union where students try the activities. · They go outto schools with Pro- fessor Scaife and his wife a couple oftimes, and then they are free to go in pairswitrrout him. Professor Scaife added, \The enthusiasm -ofkids helps to diffuse the first time nervousness of the students.\ Students con<luctthe classroom experiments and help out with the evening program, but have yet to conduct teacher workshops. Currently, the program is in its third year and includes 16-18 Union students getting out 2-3 times a term at minimum. ous schedule with a particular teacher in the area. Others are in- volved in after-sch()ol enrichment programs that meet one day after school for four weeks. Many ask professor Scaife how they advertise and 11le is quick to answer, \As little as possible.\ People are constarrtly calling him, because they learn about his program through word of mouth. The little advertising done is through a newsletter ca-lled ELEMEDU. This informs abollt 550 people around the country what they are doing. As for spring tetrn, the group plans to visit threescltoo Is all day, and also run a four week after- schoolprogram. Professor Scai~e noted that \they are happy wit:h what is on their plate for this term.\ The small group can only do so much, but are not boking to ex- pand right now. This is because Professor Scaife is unsure what will happen next oyear when he is· on sabbatical, ·but encourages those already involved to continue despite his absence. Due to overwhelming numbers interested in attending, he has also recently begun to invdve libraries and museums. He hopes that they will start their own outreach. J>rograms that would be good duri11g the summer · when schools ate cbsed. The impact this program has had on the country is incredible. Pro- fessor Scaife informed me of plans to visit schools as far as Albuquer- que, New Mexico and Northern California next year. Aside from dealing-with a myriad of requests, the program also forces Professor Scaife to deal with overwhelming numbers of people showing up to the 'evening pro- grams. The crowds that show up are incredible. Professor Scaife believes that there is a hunger otrt there. He says, \If you actually 'do' some- thing with science, kids are going to get excited about it.\ Additions to Security couid be seen for years.\ Scaife also urged principles to . Some students, such as Sam . Salamone, have set up a continu- The success of his program is evidence that an element of sur- prise may be the necessary link needed to intrigue cltildren with science at an early age . ... continued from page 1 is currently in the research phase.\ Recently, Campus Security has replaced one of its old vehicles with a new Safety Truck. They use the larger vehicle for nonnal Secu- rity patrolling, but it serves another purpose as well. Large objects, such as barriers, can be transported inside the new trucks. Campus Safety has taken the students' requests for increased safety and a more accessible es- cort system seriously by greatly ex- panding their programs. Although Security has made these additions, they are con- stantly looking for students re- quests and opinions. \Dining with a Security Officer\ is yet another program that Cam- pus Safety is intro<lucing. Students are encouraged to eat lunch or din- nerwith the Campus SafetyOffic- ers, who will be stationed b()th at West and Upper Class. The objective of this service is to allow students to V()ice their comp Ia ints, suggestio11 s,. and hopes for future plans with an of- ficer. With the support and planning of Dave Grzybowki, Diane Blake, Bob Tomeck and all ofCampus Safety, Security has been alJle to expand their programs. Jd.eally, Campus Safety would liketo break down the barriers and ()pen the waves of communication l'>etween students and officers. Witll a col- lective effort, Security bop~s to continue expanding their s.ervices to incorporate the needs of stu- dents and eventually eli111 inate crime on campus. UNiON COLI.F.G£ Career Development Center --- Today- IJid;erest;ed. in t:each.ing i:n .Japan? Sign up Koran intervie-w-., bring your re~;;un:ae \to t;he CDC 'today,. April 8~ SENIORS- t;omorrovv,. Friday, April 9 ResumeDe:adlin.es: •Kiewit Construction Co., •lVla.ximum :M:an.a.gement Corp .• •NYS Insurance Dept-. •North:west.em ]Y.[utual Life and Baird Securities. Up-to-dat;e job an.nouncexn.ent;s are posted o:n our website at '\.V\W\VV~union.ed:u/CD<A'CDC.btu. AprU 13 CareerAss•t Infor.-nai'ion Session 4pm CDC Interested i.n vvork.i.ng at the Ca~er Developrnen:t Ce~1:er next year? Add great skills to your reJSUD[Ie! Oet training and excellent work·.e~pe­ rience. CandiQ:ates must: have good b1terperson.al and t:ea:rnwork ski'lls. a strong work eiliic. and enjoy helping fellow students. Computer sk:.i1ls a plus. Applicatjons· due Fri .• April 19, Questions, contact Shelly @ x61 76. April :13 Non-Profit Career Panel 7pnn CDC I...earn fi.-orn .alu:r:n:ni about: careers in the not-for-·profit sector. including arts fund-raising~ historical coUect.ions. criminal justice/victim a.dvo~ -cacy. the ehvironm.ent,. public relations and government. . AprU 14 Non-Proft'f; OpUons 1:1-1pna CC Come \to .the College Center atriurtir. to learn about internships and .open- :i.n.gs in human. servicesp the en.virontnent:. health care. and other n.on- p~ofit organizadons. ~c:bnicallsctenee students: sUJ:D.:Ir.~er oppo.r;tut.J.ities with Para:rnet:ric Tec:h- n ologies in M:A a:rtd cA;. NYS Er1erg;y Research & :r:>ev.Auth. in Albany. et:c. :Info at t:he C::DC an4 .on-line~- Deac:ili~: Fricf,ay .. April 16th_ ... ( - in1 co Ia~ '()' ne of so of AI r()1 thl io1 lla bu ba ne th 0 fo IDI an al su a1 tb c:a St1 se1 Vi! co r(): by thi te; thi ne th pe ne ho tw te; tbl clr· wl s.e tic yc CO w as li~ r<> r<> pu fa Ur ca wi wi m in, fh be toO er. b~ th th aJ1

.. (;ampus News C!Iorn.vr!tiensis • April 8, 1999 • Page 5 F . · ·o· .r; ·e• '' . . ·• .. Engineers ·Golfing For Credit? by Shaun Mo11tama StaffWrittr While many SeQ.iors \~{.ere ~iCk­ ing back to relax and ce1e:brate the completion of their theses on the lastday of classes for Vrl11tet Term '99,. about ninety first-yeear engi- neering students did some: relaxing of their own-· they ellgaged in sorne friendly, competitiv-e rounds of gqlf. Indoors. Only putting. And no one actually ptayed a round, at least not dire(tly;._Rather, tbe students stood back ;and anx- iously watched as the ri()bots'they liad spent weeks designing and building attempted to \!Putt\ ten balls into a hole before·thceir oppo- nents did. Students in ESC 17 prepar.e their project for the final competition. balJs directly down. Many in atten- dance had looked forward to see- ing the ramp and catapultcompete in the ftnal round, btit it wasn't to be. Tension escalated as the final- ists prepared their rob{)ts for one last go. The auditorium filled with cheering as those remaining shouted encouragement to their friends and classmates. Professors and other students stood in small groups all over the auditorium, as they tried to get the best view of the last round. When the light went on, the positi{)n drop robot moved into place over the hole and deposited some, but not all, of its golfballs. Just when it looked like it was over, it wasn't-the catapult robot pushed the other rob{)t back from the hole, shot it's arm down and dropped all it's golf balls down the hole, while leaving the hole covered, snatching victory from the other team. 'fhe light went out and the catapult won. Nicknamed \Dueling Duffers,\ the competition was h.:elil in the College Center Audit<Jrimm. And for those golf enthus hasts who must be wondering, fl(), the seats and carpets weren't r~p'htced with a putting green. A three-hy-eight surface of artificial turf was set on a table. A hole was ce11tered on the surface, and a C{llJ\partment was attached beneatll the hole to catch any golfballs that nnade it in. Students and faculty cr!()w,;ded the seats and walls, seeldll!g the best view of the competition. T'Wo teams competed against eac:h oother in a rou11d, with the winnerdeie:rmined by who got the most g()]fballs down the hole. In the case ·Of a tie, the team that had the most g;ollfballs in the hole ftrst was declareiltbe win- ner. ----......---------------------------------- The overall section winner was Teams had one minute to set up their robot, and each roUJJdof com- petition lasted thirty seco0nds. If neither team got a go If hoafl in the llole, both were eliminate.d. While two teams competed, tile next two teams would be waiting iOff to ei- ther side, \on-deck.\ Professor An- drew Wolfe ofthe CE Department, wllo taught one ofthe la:b sections, served as the MC forthoe competi- tion. He warned team!; that \if you're not on deck, y()il won't be competing.\ Professor Richard Wilkofthe ME Departme:ntserved as the official timer, turming on a light bulb to indicate the start of a r<>und, and turning it off when a r<>und was done. Dean of Engineering a_nd Com- puter Science RobertBali11e:r served as the announcer, calling out the teams in the brackets who would face each other and officially re- corcl1ng the winning teams and their scores. \We have the great- est prizes for the winners, so don't be out!\ he joked with the students. Then he elaborated somewhat on the prizes:. A's for the winning team, and special prizes for the sec- tion with the best winning percent- age of teams. Commotion was the name ofthe game during the rounds of the first bracket, as teams scrambled to make last minute checks and get set-up when they were on-deck. Shouts of encouragement and cheers came from different people, depending (}n what team was com- peting. There were also frustrated cries and curses for teams that had problems, from pieces breaking to rnotms that just wouldn't work. Four of the thirteen rounds in the first bracket resulted in no winner, and the remaining rounds were split between clear victories and close ones. The number of stu~ dents in the auditorium steadily decreased as teams that were not advancing to the second bracket left the Auditorium. Each student, however, left with a prize, win or lose-a Union Engineering and Compulten· Science baseball cap, each presented' by Dean Balmer. In bet:W'een rounds, aspiring ro- botics erugineering senior Dave Nerthrup exp1a.inedthat each team was giveo.a b(}\ of parts, consist- ing oni)'I'Of a sdlenoid, a motor, a square. fo10t oifbalsa wood, a plas- tic tube amd duct tape. Fwm this, they had to a~d j)Facticality and their own creativity. Nortllr11p helped some of the freshmen, with soldering, and came to watclnkhe competition to see the results. E-ven nor1-engineering stu:.. dents and! faculty began wander- ing in dud11g illtis break, including Deans Allford~ Scburick, and Will- iams. The second bracket began with the willllerrs oftlle first bracket and the chaillllp [oms of the four sec- tions. Eilch lab section held it's own cot11]1etitiot1, and these win- ning teams weregiven byes for the first brack.et. Fourteen teams in to- tal comfPeted in this bracket, with only one roun.d resulting in no win- ner. Tine other silt rounds all had clear wnnmers, snd anticipation in the room ros.e to see who would face-off. :Eacbrohot that advanced this far ](!Joked to be very hard to beat. Thethil'd brack.et, the semifinals, NFL Star To Speak About Alcoholism Carl Eller Discusses Drug-Free Life Tonight at the Nott by Gina Campa11ella Staff Writer Seasoned Minnes{)t:a Vikings fans may remember a forrmer star Uneman with a highly publicized cause. On Thursday, ApriiS~Carl Eller wi 1,1 rec.ount his own eJ(periences witll people affected by a!tcoholism in atalk entitled \Moving On: Leav- ing Alcohol Behind.\ The talk will begin at 7: 30 PM in fheNott Memorial and iis hoped to be a very well attendecie:vent due t<l tlte subject matter ancltlle speak- ersrecognizable nature. The ftfteen-year Natiomal Foot- ball League veteran, a. Is~ lmown as the Purple People Eate:r, received theNFLRookie of the i'ea:t award and the NFL Most Vah.lla.ole Line- man award twice. He also received the All-Pro and the All-NFC five times each. He helped his tea~ through participation in six Pro Bowls, nine Conference Championships and four Super Bowls. Eller's personal NFL record in- cludes 134 sacks, 23 fumble recov- eries and nine blocked kicks. Eller has completed training as a Be- havior and Mental Health Provider. He now has many clients who are associated with colleges, uni- versities and professional sports organizations. Eller is also an important con- sultant for many professional cor- porations. and government groups. His many accomplishments in- clude an expansion of the Minne- sota DeparrtrnerutofHuman Services available forchil<h-en of color. Eller n«>w se:rves as the founder and e\e:c11tive director of the Tri- umph for UfeCenter. This center is a coumseclimg and treatment cen- ter for people who suffer from alco- holism. Eller i:s aLso a founder of the USAA (lJnited States Athletes Associatt.on). This association is a netw01rk of high school students who pr(JmlOte chemical-free life- styles. Eller'' s discuss ion promises to be educatioma:l and emotional All ill- terested Uni().n students should plant~ attend. (Statistics from the UnionCotlleg.e fublic Relations Of- fice). Cornetonigltt at 7:30 PM for this once in a lifetti111eevent. had three rounds. One resulted in no winnerwhen the competing ro- bots met in the middle and each dropped all their balls, but none ended up in the hole. The other two proved to be exciting. The first featured the catapult-like robot, which consisted of a ramp wm with a small plastic dome. When in po- sition, this arm would catapult to the ground, covering the .llole and all the gold balls would ro 11 down the ramp into the hole. IC s <:om pe- tition was a robot that ha.d a flat piece of wood that would shoot out to cover the hole after it l!ad. de- posited some golfballs. Tf:Je plat- form missed, however, and .tlle cata- pult was able to deposit its golf balls. The last round ofthe semifinals concluded with an upset of sorts. The \ramp robot,\ which had won each of it's previous roun(ls, very easily, lost to the \positicn dmp\ robot. T}le ramp robot had a long L-shaped ramp that was designed to deposit all the balls exactly in the hole without having t() move. It succeeded in depositing all of its golfballs in the previol!ls rounds but couldn't do it here. The posi- tion drop robot motored out to the hole, and when just above and a little behind it, it dropped it's golf the Wednesday section, each of whom received, from Dean Balmer, official Union College golf balls. The champions, Clare Canal and Dean Durie, besides receiving A's for the course, were awarded ( cour- tesy ofGE) 1996 Atlanta Olympic T shirts and mugs, and to com- memorate the afternoon-you guessed it~golf balls. Professor Cherrice Traver of the EE/CS Department, who taught one of the lab sections, commented on the afternoon: \I think it was a memorable and fun experience for the students. There were a Jot of important lessons learned today. And there was as much teamwork at the faculty level as there was at the student level.\ Professor Wil- liam Keat of the ME Department, who taught the remaining lab sec- tion, agreed, adding, \I've never seen that much cooperation be- tween faculty. When asked what he thought about the competition, Dean Balmer replied, \It was great! This was our first time doing something like this, and we hope to do some- thing similar every year. Consider- ing they were given just a box of parts and had to build these things, I think the freshmen did a great job.\ Student Forum Notes From March 2nd of Winter Term The Student Forum rnet on March 2nd at 10:45 PM. There were motions passed to give the . Dutch Pipers a $6,000 one year loan for the production oftheir CD and $6,500 was approved for the concert committee to bi<l for a Spring Fest band. The Fencing · Club was approved with eligibil- ity for funding. The ceramics club was also reviewed and apJJroved. The Golf Club now has frozen funds. the \roommate game\ is · planned for Friday, Marc.l! 5th at Old Chapel. Student Forum mem- bers will be trained as mediators for Union United dialogttes on April 5th. Jen Caruso was elected VP for the class of 2000. There will be tables set up in the college center for Stillman prize nomina- tions. The new executive board of the Panhellenic Council will be in place next term and a philanthropy with the IFC is being planned. The Senior wine and cheese is scheduled for March 3rd and Chet's T-shirts are being sold in the college center. Every Wednes- day at 8:00 is Juni(}r Night at Chet' s. The sophomore class will con- tinue to sell cow bells at spring ath- letic events. The Freshman class will compile a speakers list once all faculty mem- bers have returned their surveys. The Old Chapel rules have been revised. The meeting concluded at 10:45 PM.

'f t~-- ~, 1r 1 'q ... ~ ' • ·- 1. • •- . I Page 6 • April 8, 199~ • .C!!nnl'nrlrien~is r: t 'f.· '01 \( lfo\).f\ t t· ... -.\:. ., t.l, Campus News M ·e·,. ·r· ·c- u· ·r-y· D· -~ -e· -:sct··r·o· y- -~·,n- ·· ·--g' ·:·o··. -u· -r: --Et-·n· ·v· ··1·.r· ·-o· ··n· ·-01· · en±· A· n· '-·d· ··.- ... ()·- · ·ar·-· 'Ki.. --·,d--· ·s· '- • · .. ·. :; • _•, ··.· '. \.· • .· .··; '. ; -.-_I:~,\.-: .• ·.'·._::., ,' .'·',~ .: -~~- _:, :::' :•! '·::.., ~-- ._,; ·: ,·:',··-,f. :,::_•·.,~. ,- ;··-~. ·,/ / ;_,_-, .. ~·-'·.!:: -/~ ;~ :~. ::-1,-,;_ · .. _·:..:~~ ~-_',;. 1._:'·.: Lakes and Environment Change sponsors talk titled \Mercury Cycling in Lakes\ byShaum Montana Staff Writer With the onset of Spring Term, most of the eyes ofthe CoHege are glued to thennometers as we look forward to the warm days that are coming. Most of us, however, probably never give much thought to the mercury many of those ther- mometers use, and the potential impact it can have on the environ- ment. But most of us love spring- time because it lets us do many activities outdoors, especially things related to water: fishing, swimming, boating, m1d so on. Mercury in the water can be an extremely dangerous health hazard and lead to the closing of lakes to many of those activities. Th.ose who attended the most recent Lakes and Environment Change talk back on March 4th learned just why from Dr. Elizabeth Henry's lec- ture on Mercury Cycling in Lakes. The Olin Auditorium, filled with about 40 students and faculty, lis- tened attentively as Dr. Henry be- gan by describing just what prob- lems mercury in lakes can cause. Mercury is easily ingested by fish, which are then caught and sold in supermarkets. These fish, when eaten, can cause numerous birth defects in humans. Every state has warnings for women of child-bear- ing age and :pregnant w-omen, but these vary from state to state. And the problem is not as pl'eva- lent in some states as others. New York has many affected lakes, in- cluding some in the Adirondacks and Lake Onandaga near Syracuse. Where does the mercury come from? Henry explained that, ac- cording to a controversial Decem- ber 1997 EPA report to Congress, the number one cause of mercury in lakes is C()al-fired power plants, which add merctuy to the atmo- sphere where it can be deposited in lakes via acid rain. Municipal waste incinerators and commercial boilers are the next biggest causes. Chi or-alkali manufacturers, wllo make certain t es of lastics are also a major <:ause. volatilization; and oxidation. showed the draHiatic imp:aot the New technologies in mercury Henry then explained what has regulations had, quickly reducing analysis, sucbas cold vapor atomic been happening at Onandaga Lake . the amount of mercury prcd11ced fluorescettce, Henry went on to near Syracuse. She described it as from 10 kilogram per dayt()about explain, are aiding scientists' un- an \urban lake\ because the area 1 kilogram per day. derstandingofth.eproblem. Henry surrounding it is very developed. Another graph Henry s:htOwed described the dangerous nature of There are old chlor-alkali facilities was of spatial and temporal 'il!lria- the testing and showed slides of that are suspected to supply to the tions in the lake. When tbe 1(\}<e scientists wearing suits and gloves excess mercury in the lake, as well begins to stratify in June:, the to protecttbem.selves while taking as 9-Mile Creek, which flows into amount of mercuTy present in- a mercury-polluted water sample. the lake. The company Henry creases. When it turns over -j:ater She then went -on to show a dia- works for, Exponent of in October, the amountdecrea.ses. gram that demonstrated the .----------- ......... ---------- ....... Henry then pre- bio-accumu'Lati()n of mer- sented sirnjlar cury in fisllinlakes. .,,.,..,'h h . graphs of (}titer The water may have ..1. J ere are many teC - lakes, all of~hich only 1 nan&gramofmercury showed the same perliterofwater, butpreda- nologies to remove .relationship tor fish in the lake can have ho Ids, es])'ecially upto 1 milligramofmercuty other contaminants for methyl mer- per kilogram offish, cury. How does it increase? Urom environmentally In that case, Mercury in the water is in- however, tile in- gested by phytoplankton, unfriendly· organiza- crease an!~ de- which are eaten by zoop- crease are l:lluch lankton, which are eaten by tions ]. Reo ulations more dramatic:. the prey fish that the preda- ~ Henry sh(}:..ved tor fish eat. The increase ShO.U/d ~OrCe fechn0l0- overheads to ex- comes fromthefactthatthe .I • plain se-epage zooplankton,.prey fish and gies to become more lakes and <!rain- predator fisll. all ingest the age lake.s and mercury in tllnvater, in ad- efifjicl·ent and c·hear.n e· r. '' how merwry ao- dition to the mercury that :.IJ 7' cumulates in is already in their food. them. Drainage Switching gears, Henry lakes get me:rcury proceededt()showoverhe.,dsthat Schenectady, was asked to do a frominflow,someoutflowmd.vda- described some of the different mercury investigation in 1991 of tilization,andvery small arn()unts chemical com pounds formed in the lake. \That research,\ Henry in groundwater exchange. Tile pri- lakes from mercury. These include said, \is almost done, and litiga- mary pristine source is atmospheric mercury and sulfur compounds tionwill be starting soon, so I can't deposition. Seepage lakesre•ceive and a very solltble compound, me- talk_...much about this. What I can their mercury almost entirely from thy! mercury. \'This is especially a do is present some raw data about atm()spheric deposition, though problem in wetlands. In solution, the lake.\ there is somesmaUgroundwatt!r ex- it is absorbed and transported to Graphs of 200 centimeter core change here as well. These lakes,\ Henry explained. samples c.learly showed when the sources are checked by doittg mass She went on to talk about the largest concentrations of mercury balances of a lake, which sh01w all chemical process of mercury cy- occurred. Jtwasn'tuntil the 1970's, sources and sinks of merc'tlry cling. Ove-Theads showed the dif- Henry explained, that scientists within a lake. ferent ways that mercury is trans- discovered the problems mercury As the talk started runnillg. ()Ver ferred from air to the water to the could cause in lakes. an hour in time, Heruy quickly con- sediment under lakes and back EPA regulations were then put cludedbystatingfourmain points again. into affect immediately, but from the to keep in mind: little amo11nts of One sho--wed some of the rei- 1940's until then, there were no mercury in water become 1a:rge evant chemical equations that de- regulations. The core sample amounts of mercury in fish;.~ttmo­ scribe the pr()cesses which allow graph showed that the largest mer- spheric deposition is a major the mercuryt{)move from medium cury concentrations occurred sourceofmercury;methyl meifc:ury to medium. These include methy- when the chi or-alkali facilities were runs-off from wetlands a11d also lation ·dem'eth lation reduction/ occurs in in-lake roducti<>n; and April1999 · Man Tue Wed Thu F:ri NEW\ AT THE RATHSKELLAR: **FREE SOUTH PARK PINBALL **ICE COLD SLUSHY 1 burial in sediment is the main fate ef inorganic mercury in lakes. Fol:lowing .the talk, the:te were a lot of questions asked, many extra points that the audience was inter- ested in learning about. One ques- tion focused on how difficult and expens.ive mercury removal is. Henry responded, \It's probably both. There are many technolo- gies to remove other contaminants .. .it's an active area . ' . for research. Regulations should force technolcgies to become more efficient and cheaper.\ Someone asked specifically about the removal or dredging of mercury from Onandaga, to which Henry responded, \The US Anny Corps of Engineers did a cost- analysis, but there's not much talk ofthat now.\ One of the last questions had to do with mercury and PCB' s in fish, and what happens to the fish: \Mercury ends up ia muscle tis- sue, PCB' s in fatty tissue, so al- way.s be sure to remove the skin and the fat,\ Henry said,_ \There are actually no adverse affects found in the fish. However, other organisms are affected indirectly: bumans, of course, and birds in the Everglades, where there is a major mercury prob-lem.\ The talk concluded witH ap- plause and thanks from the audi- ence, many cf whom joined Dr. Henry afterwards at a reception in the Geology Department Offices on the 3rd Floor ofthe Olin B11ilding. Interest~;:d in attending the next' talk, the finaL one in the series? It will be Thursday, April 29th in the Olin Auditorium at 5PM. Pro:- fessor Paul T. Gremillion of the Union Civil Engineering Depart- ment will present a talk entitled, \Sediment Record Of Batiston Lake As An Archive Of Water Quality\ focusing on two years of Union research conducted on nearby Ballst~n Lake. Don't pass up the opportunity to see and hear about the impor- tant and exciting work varied Union students and faculty have been erfonnin . Sat J 1 COMING SOON: Live caterta.lnnteQt on the pac:lo every Wednadoy from 12-lp.m. New and improved, Chiokcn Fauns and Cl>lcken Finger...

Advertisements ' ' • (!J:.onr.ormtnsi9 • April 8, 19?9 • Page 7 • Lr -· af·· ·nLOn ·- Benefitting the Make a .. · .. ·.· ish Foundation Collle support · April 24, 1999 8:00PM Metnorial Chapel •

Looking Toward the Future The world is rapidly progressing toward the twenty-first century. Every day we are moving one-step closer toward an unknown future. In actuality, reminders of the historic event surround us more often than we care to acknowledge. Each day a new report emerges stating a cure for looming computer and technological problems while sim\IIta- neously announcing even more concerns about the approaching mil- lennium. These concerns a!'e coupled with advancements by scientists and other innovative individuals that allow our every day tasks to be- come that much more simple and routine. These improvements inte- grate themselves into society and fast become an integral part oftoday's life. Upon reaching the year 2000, the world will experience a historic milestone that will not soon be forgotten. Because this time is approach- ing quickly, the staff of Concordif?nsis acknowledges the challenges that it endures. Through the years this publication has experienced n1any hardships that illustrated potential disaster. Cut and paste editing, crash- ing computers and temperamental. printers have repeatedly tested the patience and dedication of the staff. Regardless, after all ofthe frustration and late nights, the critieisms and complaints, Concordiensis has grown and prospered with the Col- lege. Technology has allowed for advancements in the writing and production of our newspaper. I.n addition, computers have made the · tasks of laying out a section and editing much less tedious. These valu- able changes have helped Concordiensis become a better publication. After this reflection on years passed, the time has come to recognize the new obstacles we are facing. Concordiensis needs to advance with society and technology. As Editors-in-Chief, we have dedicated our- selves to preserving this newspaper at the standard it has been and, eventually, raising that standard to a new, more demanding level of journalistic integrity. Concordiensis has been blessed with an innumerable list ofdedi- cated individuals who devoted endless hours to its production. Each of these students has improved the newspaper with his or her ability to closely examine the workings of Concordiensis and improve the as- pects of the paper on which they concentrated. Unfortunately, the afore- mentioned task has become increasingly more difficult in recent months. After witnessing our staff repeatedly deal with failing equipment and mounting frustrations, \We concluded that Concordiensis couldn't sur- vive the upcoming years with faulty machinery. For this reason, our efforts have been directed toward wholeheart- edly improving and rejuvenating Concordiensis. Obtaining better of- fice supplies, such as tables and desks, are one of the main objectives of our editorship. Once these necessities materialize, we plan to update our computers and printers to prepare them for the forthcoming years. By establishing a firm bases on which to build, we aspire to reach new heights technologically and journalistically. However, these aspirations only have meaning and, more importantly, value if we are supported by the student body of Union College. This newspaper has succeeded throughout its tenure because of the contin- ued interest ofthe students and faculty of this institution. Without your support, Concordiensis would not be as widely read as it is today. As Editors-in-Chief, we are asking you to endorse our efforts to techno- logically improve the College's newspaper and assist our ambitious endeavor to increase the journalistic quality of our writing. Concordiensis supports Union, we hope that you will reciprocate that notion. BMBandDCB Letter Policy & Disclaimer Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP ED page and must be received by 5 PM the Monda before publication. Letters must be less than 500 word and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Unio College community. Final decisions concerning printin and/or editing a submission belong to the Editoria Board. All letters must be signed and saved on a hi density disk, although the author's name need no appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of th Editorial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of th Editorial Board, and of no one member in particular· . Any opinion columns or cartoons reflect the opinion . of the writers or artists, and not necessarily the opinion of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in Concortl:iensis, do! tiq. ·necessarily reflect the opinionsiofth~:Editori~l BQ€tfd:. Concordiensis is printed by ~~t14M:~Gli~~llQt1- Cd~~ · · Avenue, Albany, NY~ 122~5'. . . ' ·. · · ''; - .. - ,,•:.·.· ·.: ' · .. · .. ,,:. :·:J.·:. Opinions Seeking To Diversify the Faculty A lot ()f attention has a.IV\iays been given to the homogeneity of the Union College student b.ody, but has anyone ever looked a.:t the faculty? How can an indiv:i<iual graduate frem Union and Claim to be ready for the \teal world\ if he or she has spent th.e p&st four years of higher learning in a semi \ho- mogenous environment wher-e al- most e'V.ery(i)ne looked like til em? If Union is to. accomplish its J!;Oal of preparing young men and women to become productive members of society, then it ·is: im- perative that Union diversify both its student body and its fawlty. President Hull's recent program oftargetedhiring search isadefi- · n ite step in the right directio11. As stated by Dean Sorum, \It is -very important for ... students to have minority faculty they can respect.\ It is also important for stulents see minorities in elevated positions so that when they encounter it in the \real world\ or the workforce (which they most likely wi 11 in today's rapidly diversifying'V\Iork force); it is not a foreign sight .. Perhaps more importantly,. the quality of education in the .class- room will be improved by intro- ducing different and imp<!rtant perspectives. As a Iibet:al arts in- stitution with a goal of givin,g its students a well rounded education, Union has failed to provide a bal- anced classr<>om environmen1. This, in tum, is leading to a11 in- ferior education and prepa.r!ltion for the job market. In this era of globalization and transnational corporations, it is essential for Union to provide n()n-traditional perspectives. If it does not, then it is not only failing the minority community, but also the entire stu- dent body. Many of the critics against Union's targeted search will readily agree with what is written above. However, they are against the method by which Union is at- tempting to diversity the faculty. These same critics will also re~dily admit that all of Union's attempts in the past have failed- miserably. The issue then becomes how vital one thinks the task of diver- sifying Union's faculty is. If one agrees that it is vital, then it is easy to understand that unorthodox and controversial measures have been . taken to achieve a goal that has eluded Union for decades upon ·decades. If, on the other hand, one. be- lieves that it is not critical to di- versify a homogenous faculty, then it is easy to understand the trepidation shown by some faculty and administration in the adoptio11 ofnew methods. It is asimplecase of,priority; are we ready to move forward? The noted activist Malcolm X stated that, \of all our disciplines, history bestrewards our research.\ The history of Union has showtl us that the traditional methods of recruiting does not work in attract- ing qualified minority students. Are we to then blindly play a game of circuitous folly? President Hull, along with the of Union's faculty, has learned from history and are try- ing to change its course. There is no doubt that if the energy given to the opposition of this program was channeled in the positive di• rection of attaining quality minor- ity candidates, this initiative would not be necessary. But sadly, it is necessary; for us to think other- wise is to deny logic, history, rre;. ality and a positive outcome. President Hull, the Board of Tntstees and the faculty deserve the applause of the entire Union College community for the inno• vation and foresight as they try to remedy this pervasive problem at an otherwise stellar institution. In- ste!ld of criticizing, we should join the initiative to better our school. Sincerely, Alpha Phi Alpha Thanks Given for Chaplain Article I want to that you an(i staff writer Shaun Montana for the wonderful article on the Ser.vice of Install atio11 for the Protes:tant Chaplain. Your quotes were e::'l<act, your emphasis on choir participa- tion mirrored the cooperative ele- ments of the event and yollr de- scriptions were a testament to the celebrative feel of the hour. There are 15 local congregations that support my presence on cam- pus. They understand my work as one who is engaged in a journey of the soul with those members of this community who desire com- pany and guidance in their explo- rations. I am open to meeting with individuals or groups who are ex- amin_ing particular spiritual, ethi- cal, or personal issues. The sup- port of those ten choirs and the 14 clergy on that February day, was a sign of congregational support for this campus community. Sincerely, Viki Brooks-McDonald Hockey Team Thanks Fans On behalf <lfthe Union COllege Skating Dutchmen and tlte i<:e hockey program, I would libe to take this opportunity to thank you. We wish t<> thank you for y(}ur continued, enthusiastic support. As ateam, we knowthatthis pastsea- son was not as successful as we bad all hoped and we reaHz;~ 1hat tough seasons are sometimes hard to watch. Your support has remained strong and loud all year long. The Skating Dutchmen, especially those six of us who are graduat- ing, are forever grateful for your tireless effort and support. It has been a source of added enjoyment to the players, the coaches and the program. Thank you. Sincerely, Mark Will Class of 1999 Come J'oin Concordy's Staff Con.cordiensis is looking for students to help with the paper. Tons of people are wanted, from writers to editors, to advertising managers. Everyone is welcome and no experience whatsoever is needed. Thursday, 6:00,PM, Room 303, College Center. Be there. ' r l t I I t '\ r 1 t '\ e t t s ), t a ·+ 1' s l1 c j, u r

0 • • ntons Spring Term: Dressed in Pajamas by Lis Kidder Opinion Editor Upon myreturnto Union from spring break, I came across sev- eral points worthy of discussion. Therefore, 11ere are the top ten wonderful sllrprises for a student returning for spring term. 10. Located behind Yulman Theatre there is the head .of a gi- ant, wh-ite rat. This object is not at all frightening when stumbled upon by a stu<lent returning to their dorm from a late meet- ing (god only knows what it's like for a drunk pledge return- ing from an event). 9. Why do people march outside ofmy dorm at two-in- the-morning, on a Monday night, chanting? Are they try- ing to cast a spell on me and the other residents? 8. There is an evil game that the bookstore likes to play, in which they call students at nine-thirty in the morning on Tuesdays in an effort to disturb their much needed slumber. It is a well known fact that students are either asleep or at class at nine- thirty. Let us review the crimes of the bookstore. First, they charge students approximately ninety dol- lars per boolc each semes-ter, buy the books back at a dollar apiece and then sell them to unsuspect- -ing ·students the following term. Now they're waking up innocent students at obscene hours of the morning. SClmething has to be done. 7. Ever been mo~ed down by someone coming through a door- way on the wrong .side (this is America; we walk on the right)? This is because the doors leading into West Dining (the dining hall thatall students are requ-ired to eat in a.s freshmen- that's right, it's a conspiracy) are switched. When yoll enter the dining•h!dl~ you must do so through the left door, be- ·cause there is a sign on the right door that reads; \Exit Only.\ This daily conditioning lea<ls to a stu- dent body incapable ofentering a building through the correct door. In many cases, the prdble:m is so profound that people don't under- stand which side of a sidewalk to walk on, which leads to collisions between the confused people and the people who realize what coun- try they're in. This is not England -try to remember that. 6. Who are the people that win the housing lottery? · 5. While we're complaining about doors - why don't the front doors of the Olin bt1ilding open? They weigh about threeand a half tons each. Are they afraid some- one is going to steal the observa- tory? With all the hype surround- ing the building of the Olin Tech- nology Center of The World, the doors should open automaticaUy with heat sensors when a person walks nearby. 4. If one $urveyed the campus to see how many students had been mugged, the numbers would be surprisingly high. Why is this? Because cf the washing machine bandits. I was robbedjustthe other day while attempting to wash my underwear. In fact, the ma- chine stole five quarters from me. A large sign above the thieving machines reads, \lf you lose money, call the com- pany. It's not your RA' s prob- lem. HA HA HA.\ Don't bother to call the number pro- vided- it's a 1-800 number · for impotence support. 3. The random man in the bottom of the .Jibrary who wants, more than anything in the world, to walk someone home. Can we say, \Schenectady Strangler?\ 2. FRED: the golf cart with food. Created by the secret service for off-road food delivery, FRED can get you a cyber-wrap at your most desperate hour. 1. The Bumblebee Squad. We can all feel safer with the knowl- edge that criminals will be chased away by Campus Security's new swarm of biker-cops. ~ - Make sure to marvel at the multitude of miracles present on campus this tenn. If you miss out, 'U it. Ideas For the Bookstore by Steven Schuler Staff Writer I never have my books for the first week of class. I would get them, but I ju~t can't take the 1 ines at the bookstore, the crush of all 2000 students stuffed into the side ofthat tiny mom. I would have my books for that first week however if I could buy them when I returned the ones from the previous semester. This is n<>tsuch an outrageous idea. We have a course sched- ule book wh:y not list the texts required in it. Or even better, put it all onli11e so we can have access where ever and when ever we need it. Think of the advantages: the obvious cut down on the- mass rush at the bookstore atthe beginning of each term, it would allow people tak- ing classes like Orgo to get ahead a few chapters during that 6 week winter break~ and if prices -were listed on line we could even com- parison shop. Does the bookstore offer the bes:t price? You could try a local B11ms and Noble or try one of those online outlets that sell text books. Maybe Mark Twain is your favorite author and you just want a nicer edition of Iluck Finn for English 22 that you can keep when the class is over. Either way knowing the required reading ahead oftime would bean advan- tage If such a resource V!ere set up it ''I woultlgetjTny book~\f, but I ju.r;t Cllll 't take the lines ut the bookstore, tl1e crush of a/12000 sttltlents stuffed intotf1e side of·. ·.·that tiny J'f)Of1t•\ wot1ld be best if online. This could be a huge resource. Not only would each class outline and texts be listed but there could be meet- ing :times, exam schedules, a syl- lablls, and even student to student reviews of each class- a testimo- nial that could help )'()U decide if this was the kind of class you wanted to take. how much easier the sign up process would be, we could see how many papers we have to write, if a class was lecture or discussion oriented, or if the final was on Friday of exam week. If all this information were available before class sign ups this web site would be an in· valuable resource for each of us. Even a site with a few of these details would be a new Union institution. The course descriptions are listed on Union'sweb site, but are buried under the A eadem· ics heading. A link to this in- dex should be listed on the Union Homepage. Also, this means that the hardest part is already done. The descriptions and infrastructure already ex- ist. What comes next is sim- ply adding more information to the sit~, such as the meeting times, syllabus and texts. The next step further down the line wouidof course be online reg- istration, but let's not jump ahead. Having an online ind.ex of all Union's classes would be great. It would improve our quality of life so that every so often each of our lives would be a little better. -- \' · ·, ... - ... Yo· u· -··ar· e· · n.a• 6Jo· ;..e \ ;·, -~~, .. _ _. ,_ ·_.·-~- '.'. ' . >=- '-~--- .. \'~---\-'-- 'u:. · Tbei;~ ar~ p~~ple who 'ilre willing to help. It's okay to feel': depressed, scared and allgry. Just don't give \'P· · Don't give your attacker the satisfaction. Don 'tlet him win. Safe Space is here to listen. -Safe Space Beeper # 1-800-283-2255 pin: 11349 C!lo:ncnraiensis The Student Newspaper of Union Cllllege Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Brooke Barylick - David Brooks EDITORS-IN-CHIEF Jaime Chandler EXECUTIVE EDITOR Elisabeth Kidder OPINIONS EDiTOR Jessica Zuehlke NEWS EDITOR Brian Terlinsky SPORTS EDITOR Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Kimberly Rohback A &EEDITOR Cory Silken PHOTO EDITOR Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOONiST Victoria Hargreaves SCIENCE & TECH EDITOR Neil Routman WORLD NEWS EDITOR Jon Kelson · MichaelS. McGuire COPY EDITORssssss Danielle Devine Amanda Jaci{Son ADVERTISEMENT COORDINATORS Steve Mortefolio PROMOTIONAL MANAGER PHOTOGRAPHERS: Jen Macllowell, Jeremy Messler, Sloan Miller, DavcMeguerdiehiall, Leah S-Baker, Rebecca Walsh. STAFF; Matt Aroli()Witz, Jeffrey Ausfeld, Jessica Brearton, Gina Ca1npanella, John Carbone, Kevin Carter, Heather Clements, Erin Connoly, .Jim DeWaon, Mary Felton, Heath Fradkoff, MattGendron, Lori Greene, Sarah Harsll, Courtney Hayden, Mike lger, Jon Kelson, Daniel Kelhmano\ich Jordan Lippman, Sloan Miller, Sllaun Montana, Stephen Nemeth, Brian Roache, Steve Schuler, Eugene Shultz, Adam-Paul Smolok, Louisa Stephens, }{()ry Stern, Jon Tapper, Jolm

Page 10 • April 8, 19'99 • Cfiouc:trtbi.eusi~ WetrldNews :Ongoing War Between NATO and Serbia~ Forces by Stephen Nemeth Staff Writer The NATO air offensivethat commenced March 24, code- named Operation \Allied Force,\ had the ambitious goal of forcing the Serbian government to accept the RambouHlet agreement. How- ever, it has quickly S\pread into a miss ion that critics claim has no real goal and no apparent ''exit strat- egy,\ and also one that has re- sulted in cracks in the NATO alli- ance, the downing of a US fighter aircraft, and the capture of three soldiers by Yugoslav forces. While the critics dispute over the intentions ofthe mission, one thing cannot be disputed, and that is the hardship- and terror that the Kosovar Albanians have under- gone and the importance that this operation has on the world stage. The single event which pre- ceded the bombings was the inten- sive peace talks in Rambouillet be- tween the. Serbian government un- der President Slobodan Milosevic, Kosovo Liberation Army (KLA) negotiators, Albania, and the US under the direction of special en- voy Richard J-Iolbrooke. These discussions w'ere held in order to stop bitter fighting be- tween both sides and at the least restore the limited autonomy Kosovo held from Marshall Tito's regime in 1974 until Mi1osevic elimi- nated it in 1989. The negotiators of the Kosovo Liberation Army signed the docu- ment while the Yugoslav delega- tion refu~ed due to a clause that would allow NATO forces into Kosovo to act as a peacekeeping f<lrce. Talks repeatedly broke dbwn and frequent rep<Orts of ethnic cleansing resulted in a growing.re- .sponse from the vvmLd community to accept the agreement or face a large and sustai11ec:L air war from tile NATO alliance. March 24, 1999rnarked the first day in NATO history that the alli- ance was conducti11gmilitary op- erations against a .S<JVeFeign na- tion. The NATO atta.(;kheavily re- ,J ied on surface and a:ir launched Tomahawk cruise missiles to pen- etrate areas that w«er-e seen as too high risk for convellt]onal military a:ircraft. These 111 issi les were launched from a·llliJTJl>er of differ- entplatfonns incl11ding submarine, ship, and aircraft cmd have the ca- pability of flying ]()ng distances using the global ~ositioning sys- tem to navigate an-d complex avi- Ollics to avoid enemy radar. Also used in the initial attack was the F-117 N ig.hthawk Stealth Fighter. These pla!les were used t() evade radar sites and attack a namber of high~ risk sites includ- ing a number of the fearsome So- v-iet-built Yugoslav S11rface to Air Missile systems. A US combat system also saw its combat debut in the fir.st day of air-strikes- the B-2 Stealth Bomber. This aircraft, which costs an esti nated $2.2 bil- l ion and is seen as an obsolete relic from the military buildup of the 8()s, perfonned well At the end of tile first day of strikes NATO analysts and spokesmen assessed the results of the strikes. Over 4() targets were hit on the first day,including a mili- tary airport and an a:ircraft ~anu­ facturing plant near Belgrade. Also, threeYugoslav Mig-29s were shot down at the cost of no allied casualties. However, Serbian forces in Kosovo remained largely untouched because Allied forces concentrated mostly on Serbian air defense systems and rmt on indi- v,idual military formations. A few days later, President Clinton annoutlced in a speech to a nation unsut~ ofthe Wisdom of the strategy about the unique geo- p()litical situation that presents it-- self in Kosovo and of the atroci- ties committed on the ethnic Alba- nian majority. He spoke ofthe lo- cation of Kosovo and the histori- cal significance of the region to Serbia, 'however he was quick to note that while the ties that bind Serbia are strorrg and historical, they do no't justify' genocide and brutality. He·also mentioned that the regi~n of' Yug·oslavia was tlie focal pdint''of Wwld·Warl and a major area in World War ll, and that aggression that wa-S left unchecked allowed two world wars to devas- tate Europe and that the US and it NATO allies were determined not to let it happen again. He also sent a taped address to the people of Serbia reminding them that NATO's actions were directed at the military and govern- ment of'Serbla an·dnotthe people. Clinton spoke ofthe extensive. use of propaganda in the Milosevic govemr:nent and that the people of Serbia were being lied to by a cer- ru pt and tyrannical despot and also that the attempts at Serbian nation- alism have led to a series ofbloody wars that have resulted in little or no gain: In response, President Slobodan· Milosevic aired a speecll on Serbian television and radio con- demning the attack and the R.am- bouillet clause for inse:tti()ll of peacekeepers as art inv.itati()n to foreign intervention, or as he put it, \Kosovowouldbe only thec:loor for the foreign troops t<> enter and to endanger this higher vatu~.\ As Operation Allied Foree pro- gressed,. ne.w targets w~re being struck. These targets incladed bridges, factories, ilil refin~ries, and power grids to help disrupt t~e organization and command .o.fthe central government in Belgrade. Individual military units in K()sovo were also struck as the {)peration progressed from Phase I, which involved. defensive suppression, to Phase II, in Which targets. mili- tary units and organizatkms _()per- ating Within Kosovo~ D!.!ringone of these; operations a US F-11.7 Stealtn Fighter was losho e~y ground fire but th.e pi.lo1 was quiCkly rescued by Ameri.can Spe- cial Forces. Immediately~Yugoslav pre.ss reported the .incident and extolled the braveryofthe ground forces in downing the aircraft. This was a setback to American forces, not only because the downed fighter accounted for I of ortfy 12 Stealth Fighters in the region, but because ofthe fact that 1ne.:high1y , . , I - ' , . secret technology of the stealth air- craft had fallen into enemy hands. During the airstrikes, the secu- rity of American peacel<eepers in Yugoslavia was being questioned. On one occasion Yug<lslav jets opened fire on a UN and US peace- keeping formation. In resfJ011se, security was tightened and ·com- bat air patrols over Bosnia, Croatia, and Macedonia were tightened. Despite .measures in theair and on the groutlti,three US soldiers were captured and paraded on TV as war crimi11a:ls. The details sur- rounding the capture ate stil-l in debate. Tbese three S()ldiers were accused as invaders .and the Serbian g()vernment threatened to try the th1e.e soldiers as war crimi- nals. These charges were later dropped a11d the Serbian govern- ment agr.eed to treat thern as Pris- oners of,Yarundetarticles of the _Geneva Obnvention. On Tl!e~day, April 6, after 13 days ofN/\ TO airstrikes Yugosla- via tende-red a unilatenil cease-fire between ihe two groups. This of- fer was immediately rejected on the grounds that the atmdties in Kosovomusteease before any deal would beaccepted. It also comes at the he:e ls of a CJA .r.eport that saysthat Yugoslav military actions may cleart3te overwhelming m~or­ ity oft~~ Kosovars out of Kosovo before week's end. this startling revelation bas many se11lm officials threateni'llg that they vvill not ac- cept a \llOollow peace\ in Kosovo if all the Kosovars have kft. The pre:cedent that this action has set is ho0norable and ambitious, but it has b~come clear that any .. future military action must: have clearly defined objectives and stan- dards. One tll'ing has been rnade c!~a.r: s the wodd and the United States will not stay idle while people are being vi<:tirnized and put under enormo\ls hardship and that hope- fully this example will prevent fu- ture aggression in other pa.rts of the world. In Depth: A Comprehensive View of the Conflict in Kosovo by Charles Tuthill Staff Writer The recent NATO .:1ir strikes have led many to wonder how the situation in the Balkans has seem· ingly spun out of control. Violence in Kosovo, however, has not been a recent phenomenon. The poten- tial for violence has probably ex- isted since 1989, when the current Yugoslav President, Slobadan Milosevic, decided to revoke Kosovo's autonomy. The events that led to Slobadan Milosevic' s current policy towards Kosovo are numerous. Kosovo was a part of a Serbian medieval empire. In I 389 it came to an end when Turkish troops invaded the area and defeated the Serb army in Kosovo. To the Serbs, the site of the battle is sacred. It serves as a symbol of resistance to outside rule and to many Serbs it is a testa- ment to the Serbian will to survive as a state. K<lsovo is also important to the Serbs because many of its oldest and most prized orthodox Christian cathedrals lie in Kosovo. Before the invasion of the Turks, Kosovo, like the majority efSerbia, was or- thodox Christian. Today Kosovo is composed of a 90Yoethnic Alba- nian majority, wllo, like the Otto- man Turks, are mostly Muslims. Serbia fears t11at Kosovo will break away from the Yugoslav re- pllblic. In 19921Co:sovo'sethnic Albanians voted to secede from Serbia and many speculated that a u11ion with Albarlia would be the main goal of such a move. How- ever, Kosovo never announced its independence, seei11g the tragedies in both Bosnia at1d Croatia as a price too high t() pay. Kosovar leaders decided to use nonviolent methods in order to gain more au- tonomy as well as to improve the situation for ethnic Albanians. Tactics which etlmic A I ban ian leaders within Kos()VO have em- ployed are to pull Otlt of govern- ment institutions a11ci form a sepa- rate school system and health care service. However, theSerbian gov- ernment has receritly terminated t:hese reforms. Life has been hard for ethnic Albanians within ](()sovo. Pov- erty has been wid,espread as has unemployment, Wh:i~;h has reached levels of up to 85 Jlercent. Many ethnic Albanians believe that the government in Be]gra.de is discrimi- nating against thetlil. Ethnic Alba- nians complain that although only one tenth of the population is Serbian, about 100,000 people, Serbians hold most of the author- ity. Chris Hedges, a writer for the New Yorlc Times notes that the \'privileged Serb minority offewer than I 00,000 ... has a lock on au- thority and runs the state compa- nies\ within Kosovo. Many sus- pect that frustration with Serbia has led to violence on the part of cer- tain ethnic Albanians within K()SOVO. Violence in Kosovo, after many ethnic Albanian leaders previously opposed it, happened for a variety of reasons; Experts believe that the· 1995 Dayton peace accords, which gav~ independence to both Bosnia and Croatia, were one reason for the fail11re of peace in Kosovo. The accords made no mention of Kosovo, which angered many of its. citizens. Many leaders in Kosovo saw their efforts going to waste, as the world failed to recognize a peace- ful fight for freedom that was be- ing waged in Kosovo. The Day- ton accords failure led many to wonder about the usefulness of nonviolent protest in gaining in- dependence. One Bosnian minis- ter went as far as to say, \It was a terrible, terrible lesson. We learned that violence works. It is the only way in this part of the world to achieve what you wantand get the attention of the intemationakom- munity.\ Frustration with the nonviolent fonns of protest has been sltown most vividly by the fonnation of the Kosovo Liberation Army in I 997. The group is a.srnall militant organization whose ultimate goal is the liberation of Kosovo. The group has been branded a terrorist organization by Serbia,. which be- lieves it is behind the murders of several Serbian police <Jfficersaild those working with the police. The recent violence in K()sovo started in February of I 998 when Milosevic sent troops into areas occupied by the K.LA in an attempt to destroy what it saw as a terror- ist organization. The attacks on the KLA are the first appearance of ethnic cleansing perpetrated by Serbian paramilitary police; in Kosovo. In February 1998,. the property of many Kosovars was destroyed and an estimated 80 people, 30 of which we~e WOomen and children, were killed. The vio- lence coJttinued in the next few months, with the KLA eventual1y controlli n,g about 40 percent of Kosovo. T n response to the grow- ing strength ofthe KLA Milosevic authorizecl an offensive :in an at- tempt to destroy the organization. The vi~lence in Kosovo led the UN Security Council, featful ofan enlarged <Jonflict in the Balkans (in- volving Cl)Untries such as Albania, Turkey an<! Greece,) to call for an imrnedia1e cease-fire. Milosevic, under the threat of NATO air strikes, ctg.reed to pull his troops out of Kosovo and to observe the _ cease-fire. US envoy Christopher Hill was sent to Serbia in attempt to make a11 agreement between the warring sides. However, violence broke oU1 c:luring the talks, ending a potenti~[ settlement. The fa:ilure of the peace talks in Kosovo hCJ.d drastic consequences. The Serbs launche<;l an offensive into Kosovo, burning villages and chasing all! estimated 3()0,000eth- nic Alba11ians into neighboring countries, The devastating Serb offensive, as well as reports oflarge scale etl111dc cleansing, bave led NATO to intervene with air strikes in attempt 1o protect Kosovo' seth- nic Alba11ran population. ' ei fr m he F1 c oJ th A th OJ dl sl th e~ ai Oi P• lc c] th nt cc J rr 2 s1 tr lc ir IT sl tl 0 n tl a

Clrnm::nrbit!nsis • April 8, 1999• Page 11 Economic Sanctions fail to Affect Saddam Hussein American Doctors bring medical aid to Iraqi people against UN Policies by-Neii:Routman WorldNews Editor . Economic sanctions are a pow- erful counterattack against .an un- friendly nation. By manipulating markets, Washington can bring hostile governments to their knees. For example, sanctions against Cuba have suspended the growth of technology in the small island nation; virtually no car is younger than 1957. The major pr()blem that most American'shavewith sanctions is that they tend to put the majanity of the middle or lower classes at a disadvantage. The ruling dictator- ship/hostile government can, for the most part, function properly even when policies are directly aimed.atweakening power. Sanctions, therefore, are based oil the assumption that the ruling powers have sympathy for the lower classes ()r that the lower classes can exert some power over the ruling classes. Earlier this week, a number of doctors from two American based organizations-the Chicago-based group Voices in the Wilderness and the Seattle-based Physicians for Social Responsibility-· donated nearly$50;000 ofsupplies and medi- cal books to the Baghdad Univer- sity Medical School and other Iraqi hospitals. This action is clearly a violation of United States and United Nation's policy. H tried and con- victed, these doctors face harsh penalties: up. to twelve years in prisonand/or halfamillion dollars in fines. The UN sanctions prohibit the import of educational material's, fu- .. eluding medica} textbooks. Doc\ tors in Iraq were using textllooks that were ten years old. The with- holding ofhumanitarian inf()rma- cer and has. little chance to live for a significant period of time, tllen one would most likely opt for the fonner. These supplies are vitally needed ill the deteriorating coun- people will never be able to afford on the international markets. . He enjoys cable television, an illegal luxury due to the excessive ·exposure of western culture (shows such as Baywatc:k are ille- \The de facto ·withholding of medicines and food from a population for political reasons is contrary to all medical and humanitarian ethics anti is a totally_ unacceptable violation of human ria.h~.s . •. \ D S W h l)· r. ue are am ti•)n can be seriously questioned. The education of these ge11eral doctors benefits the people as a whole; a Jack of medica) prof~sion­ als does not directly affectS!lddam Hussein and his family. The group also donated nearly thirty thousand dollars in general antibiotics. \The de facto withh()ldillg of medicines and food.from a popula- tion for political reasons is co11trary to all medical and humanitari<lll eth- ics and is a tota1ly unacceptable violation ofhuma01ights,\ sa<:idDr. Sue Wareham. These doctors are sworn to im- prove, protect, and prolong ltuman life in a dignified fashion. Their actions are completely legitimate; if one could save a thousmd hu- man lives by supplying medication that stops diarrhea, compared to saving an American life wh:o is dying of an obscure form of can- try. Since 1990, when sanctions were first imposed upon Saddam Hussein's government, some half a million cl1ildren have died from malnutrition, according to the UnitedNation's Children Fund. \I am concerned that American taxpayers are payingfortbeses:anc- tions that are kiH'ing the pe()ple of Iraq,\ said .Physicians for Social Responsibility member Gerri Haynes. That is exactly what the sanc- tions against the Iraqi people are doing: killing them. Sa<ldam Hussein is not allowed to sel1 his countries oil on the open market for cash-\-Only for medicine and food. - However, Hussein is able t() lit- erally live as a king while his people are starving and dying. Hussein has no problem import. ing his many Mercedes Benzes or Land Rovers, luxuries which. his gal due to the portrayal. of women .in swimsuits; in Iraq, women must be covered completely in dress). Some estimates conclude that to buy a Mercedes in Iraq, one must pay three times the sticker price- in cash. Since other countries are will- 'Eng to purchase Iraqi oil at a slightly deflated price, Saddam has a steady cash flow that h~ is theo- retically not supposed to have. These sanctions aren't hurting Saddarn and his family; they are punishing the innocent Iraqi EJeople. Meanwhile, Iraqi officials said Monday that U.S. and British mis- siles Sunday destroyed a commu- nications system that controls the flow of oil from the Bazergan oil ·field 23 0 miles southeast oflraq to the port of al-Bakr. The destruction of oil technol- ogy is effective at cutting off- or slimming down- Saddam 's cash flow. Iraq uses the port ofai-Bakr to export about halfofits oil under UN supervision . Again, this oiJ. was supposed to be sold for food and medicine, and since many barrels never see legiti- mate sales, the United Nations has deemed the pipeline a military tar- get. Despite our military's inten- tions, oil ministry officials said communications were shifted tc another facility and the flow of oil was not disturbed because the pipeline itself was not hit. These aggressive attacks were in re- sponse to violations.ofthe \no-fly zone.\ The United States has gotten it· self into a terrible ~·catch 22.\ It has promised to protect the Iraqi people from its leader, but in doing so, it hurts the general population. It has allowed the selling of oil for food and medicine, yet the gov- ernment now bombs- or attempts to bomb- the pipeline which is a major source of transportation of the very oil that is earmarked to help the population. Additionally, and perhaps most outrageously, the United States might prosecute a srnaJI number of doctors for helping a third world people with medical information and supplies. The US must seriously rethink its priorities if a cas.e against these doctors is pursued; any country who is willing to imprison its bright- est and most useful citizens merely for ameliorating arwther people who happen tobe ruled by and un- friendly government can consider itselfbackwards. Pam Am Suspects in Custody Metroplex to revitalize Schenectady by Heath.erCampbell Staff Writer The explosion of Pan Am. flight 1 03 over Lockerbie, Scotland jn December, 1988, still haunts the memory of many Americans. With 270 dead, visions of wreckage strewn across the Scottish colln- tryside and families sobbing at the loss ofloved ones are images finnly imprinted in our minds. I can~tre­ member anyone who was not shocked an angered to hear that this horrible tragedy was the result of the work ofinternational terror- ists. Even more stunning was the news that Libya refused to release the two suspects for a trial before a Scottish court. Now, more than ten years after the terrible tragedy, Libya surren- dered the two suspects on Mon- day1 April5. Abdel Basset Ali al- Megrahi, 47, and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah, 43 are now in the Nether- lands awaiting trial. Both suspects say they are in- nocent, and Libya denies any in- volvement in tile bombing. UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan says that he is confident the two men will receive a fair trial, and thattbe trial will be monitored. the trial will be preceded by extradition pro- ceedings between Britain and the Netherlands, and could take months. After the ~xtraditio11 pro- ceedings are finished, the tw() sus- pects will be moved to Camp Zeist, near Utrecht, which will sel've as British territory for the trial. Nelson Mandela orchestrated the deal between tile UN and Libyan leader Moammar Ga..<lnafi. \Nelson Mandela and anum. ber of international leaders, particularly Saudi Arabia, have been veryhelp- ful to us in securing this outc!()me,\ said British Foreign Secretary Robin Cook. Nelson Mande]a was the one who suggested a trial.in a third country, whicll helped toquelt Libyan concerns. This surrender now me[ln.s an end to UN sanctions against Libya that have been in effect since I 992. The sanctions limited things like international flights and arms sales. \I hope they will now rejoin fully the community of nations an <I play their role in it,\ Annan said, President Clinton said h~ was \gratified\ to learn of.the sllrren- der of the two suspects, and Brit- ish Prime Minister Tony Bla:.ir said \I hope this is a tremendou~;.relief to those relatives of the victims of the Lockerbie airdisaster.\ In thecaseofPanAm flight 103, time was not rewarded. Tell. years after the suspects were chtrged, they will be tried before an iiJterna- · tiona! court and finally be brought to justice. byHeather Cam pi:Jell Staff Writer Authority) to oversee the down- require Metroplex t() be more ac- town redevelopment projects. countable to local residents. CPR Schenectady 2000 received al- believes that an appointed board most immediate support from most of directors does not allow for Unless you live in Schenectady rocal legislators. State Senator enough community input. Other or read local newspapers on ar.egu- Hugh Farley, ofScenecta:dy, spon- opponents cite the S150 million Jar basis, you probably have no sored the bill to create the price tag as a reason to not jump clue what the Schenectady Metroplex Authority. After much quickly into Metroplex, and see it Metroplex Authority is, or :how debate on the subject, the as a potentially expensive mistake. hard President Hull has worked in Metroplex bill was passe<! in June, After Metroplex Wa5 formed, con- the past year to promote it in the and the Schenectady Metroplex sultants were hired t:o write a mas- New York State Legislature. Authority was formed. It is com- ter plan, which wa5 presented at Unless you have never left old posed of a 19-m ember board with the Schenectady County Public Li- Union'sgates, you have seen .-----------------------.braryon Tuesday, March 30. just how hard ofan economic In this meeting, the con- downfall Schenectady llas Schenectady 2000 received al- sultants reaffirmed the fact taken. Recentestimatesshow mo~t immediate support from thattheplan wouldretainthe that 20,00{) people live within best qualities of downtown a two-mile radius of Mohawk mo~t local legislators. Senator Schenectady, such as the Jay Mall, wllile60,000peoplelive Hugh Farley, who represents Street Pedestrian Mall, within a two-mile radius of Schenectady in the New York Proctor's Theatre, and some downtown Schenectady. of the historic storefronts, With so many people so dose State Senate, sponsored the bill while other bui !dings would to downtown, why is there an to create Metroplex. be demolished in order to almost 85% storefront va- makeroomf()rnewbuildings. caney rate? Preside11t Hull and Neil M. Golub, President of Price Chopper, co-founded a civil action group called Schenectady 2000, and in late February 1998 unveiled plans for a convention center, a 200 room hotel, an eight screen cineplex, a hockey rink, and office buildings to be constructed in d()wntown Schene.:tady. They also proposed a govern,. ment organization (the Metroplex: John Manning as the current Chair- man ofthe Metroplex Board of Di- rectors. Local and state govern- ments appoint most of these board :seats. Of course, not everyone sees Metroplex as the perfect solution to Schenectady's economic woes. One group, Citizens for Preserva- tion and Revitalization (CPR), was formed by nine people who wanted to promote citizen invoivementmd • So why do-es Roger Hull care? Union College recently con- ducted a survey of accepted stu· dents who did not choose Union. Sixty percent of tllose surveyed stated that their main reason for choosing another college over Union was the town of Schenectady. What is good for Union is good for Schenectady, and what is good for Schenectady is good for Union.

The Screening Room Reviews Ed TV by Katie Aspens and Cass Ciavarra Sta.ffWriters It has been missing in action for an entire term, but rest assured movie fans, the Screening Room is back. We are returning to bring Union College back to the theaters. As we are entering the final term of this academic year we are also greeted by the re-emergence of Hollywood. With the Oscars be- hind us there is a movement by the studios to present films that at- temptto derive pleasure rather than praise. Since we are in our final term of college this \lighthearted\ genre is especially appealing to us as we broach the ,real world and depart from Union's self-contained bubble-like universe. We hope to function as your resource in deter- mining those persisting dilemmas that plague post-teen angst mov- ies (i.e. chick-flick, cheesy, T & A) and save you that hike to Crossgates. Our first mission in decoding this genre was EDtv. The movie stars Matthew McConaughey as, Ed Pekurny, a thirty-one year old video store clerk who is chosen to save a slipping cable company by having his life filmed live 24 hours a day. As the film progresses Ed's life slowly unravels, revealing his family's many skeletons in the closet, and ultimately mimicking a real-life soap opera. From his meathead scumbag brother, beau- tifully played by Woody Harrelson, to his insecure girl- friend (Jenna Elfman) to his dys- functional and phi- landering parents, Ed's life deterio- rates in front of a nation hooked on EDtv. Elizabeth Hurley makes a cam eo appearance in quite a different and unappealing role as a media- hungry model that seduces Ed. This film has been crit·icized as building upon themes presented by The Truman Show. Although both men ultimately attempt to escape this 24-hour surveillance, EDtv makes a commentary on society and scandal. David Denby writes, '\On the surface, this rambunctious ·comedy, which was written by Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel, and directed by Ron Howard, is a satire of media ruth.Jessness and the pub lie's hunger for instant fame. But it's sobroadly conceived that it never achieves any distance from its subject. How can yotJ put down the crass public and 'expose' cynical TV executives when yo11 are making a crude, populist cyni- cal movie?\ With these criticisms in mind let's get down to the basic ques- tion: was EDtv worth the $8.00? We felt that the movie overex- erted itself in trying to expose our corrupt nation; both within the tv. station and the population at large. Ellen DeGeneres provided the so- cial consciousness against the hype which was highly comical and The Egg's Dance Comp.any Courtesy of the Egg Public Relations Office The Egg's resident dance com- pany, the Ellen Sinopoli Dance Company, is scheduled for its an- nual performance on Saturday, May 1, 1999 at 8 PM. Culminating a busy performance and residency season, the company of seven will premiere two new works choreo- graphed by artistic director Ellen Sinopoli and featuring the talents of numerous area artists. Nearing Convergence brings visua:l artist Benigna Chilla's screen pieces to the stage for the first time. Her two layers of suspended screens become the physical and ootical framework through whjch the choreography is interwoven. As the dancers engage with a ki- netic prop of life-sized tetrahe- drons, their movements interact with the bold geometric shapes painted on hanging screens. Mu- sic for this premiere is a specially commissioned work by William Harper. The evening's other premiere is The Long and the Short of It This piece will eventually become a part of a longer work-- Cliche, a witty and spirited escapade for the en- tirecompany. Theex:cerptprernier- ing is a duet to music composed by Carla Landa who also wrote the music for the entire work. The company's program will fea· ture two works seen for the first time on The Egg's stage--- Agri Anna and Regalis. For tickets or infonnation contact The Egg's Box Office at473-184S. ~ ' > Photo Courtesy of The Egg one of the redeeming elements in the film. While Katie found EDtv to be entertaining, she constantly made references to The Truman Show and struggled with the in- tense ambivalence between the tv. executives and society. Cass, on the ()ther hand;didn't see the parallels te The Truman Show due to its setting in present- day San Francisco and simply ap- preciated the cemic element and, more importa11tly, Matthew McConaughey. When it comes down to it we both agree that this movie is sim- ply college center worthy. Al- though we encourage you all to experience the lush seats and wei• . coming environment ofthe stadium complex at Crossgates Cinema H()yi' s Ill, ED tv isn't the movie for thi~ privilege. Stay tuned for next week where we will continue our mi~~ionofdecipherin,g those ques.- tiollable movies ... up next: Never Br?UI IGissed, starring Drew Barrymore! For those ofyouwho ha\\'e seen the previews this movie definitely looks boderline. Drew inhi,gh school? We 'lllet you know w!Iatwe think! Since tickets to see new movies in tlte theater are getting to he in- creasingly expensive, please let us kn()W if there is a movie you are uns11re of seeing. We will waste the eight dollars f{)r you and re- view it so you don't have to. I fit is oneofth:ose rare, \you have to see it()n the big screen'' blockbusters, we ':I I let you know. Please call tht: brand new Screening Room writ- ers. at the Concotdiensis office at x6155, with questions, comments, or suggestions. If you have any m<'Jvies you want to have reviewed, give us a call and we will check out the 11ew flicks! We ate glad to be back, and, with a 'little luck from Hollywood, we willseesome great films this temt Then we will be able to say with confide11ce, \Hope to see you at the movies.!\ A&E '··FYI . · .•... s ····· .. With A&E Editor Kimberly R101Iba~k Welcome back for an exciting Spring Term of Art and Entertain- ment. A&E wishes absent editor Lori Jill Greene the bestofluck in Washington. As for those of us still here at Union, there is plenty of Art to be found. The Theater Department's production of Cabaret is up and running. This is the first full scale musical production being put on in the Ylilrnan. Guest director Diane Sadak has chosen a melange of students from U11ion. Skidmore, SUNY, and two other members of the community to perform in the show. Good luck to the cast as they begin rehearsals. Anyone interested in working on produc- tion aspects oftne show is wel- come to stop by the theater atany ·time. In the world of dance ... for those ofyou who missed Iasttenn's per- formance, the dancers involved in the show will be perf()tming again at Steinmetz. The Modern Dance Practicum is. also being offered to any interested students on Tues- days, 5: 15 to 6:45PM. Dance Pro- fessor Moutillet says, \Gain strength, coordination and learn about the many facets of dance. Start a healthy program. Enjoy the pleasureofmovingthrough space. Dance to music of contemporary · Rock, Jazz and multi-Cultural groups.,; For more information about this amazing opportunity contact Professor Moutillet at x6513. Mountebanks is in fuH swing, . sponsoring both Heath Helpurn's production of ''Laundry and Bmw boit' and a student Improv troo run by Jon Zandman and Mik Wrnn. For more infonnation on th fes;.tival of fun that is Mounte banlcs please refertothe article o · Molllltebanks oryoucouldalway attend a Mountebanks meeting; They are held on Thursdays at 5: PM in the green room of th Yulman Theater. F'c>r those of you who are inter ested in the art that lies beyon the g;ates of Union, the A&E sec tio11 is attempting to reach out. MoV'ie reviews, theatrical and ar tistic calendars, more press re. leases, more bands, and more art! There is a wealth of opportuni for those who seek art. A&E i her-e to help you find it. We ar loO<kingformore writers. Ifyo · caroe .about art and want to sprea your passion, please join me an the rest of the A&E team for ou meeting tonight in the Concord office on the third floor of the cam pus. oonter. No major time commit me11ts, and more importantly yo ca11become a valued membero the art community by helping i : flourish. If you are unable to at tend the meeting tonight you ca cotltact me at the Concordy offic · at x:<6155 ()rat home x5812! I ho tos.ee you either writing, suggest ing artistic events to cover, or, a the very least, attending and sup· porting the artists who bring the to y-otJ. Spring is a season for sun shineand happiness. What, I as you, could possibly be happie thal1art1 elc cu Bi Hi na Et ne en of St( drl an El Bl tr<l ac no ac st~ de tre wl cu Nt thl Ur ret an ph ter fm sci ag ba1 ex1 fm ke: I ga eel I no Co dn. in~ baj Wl ish en1 sec yo YO' wa mCI the no I it, ' ha' ev< cet me Wi I til fatl lo~ go Th' fro

Arts & Entertainment . . <t!o:nrurbien55i5 • April 8, 1999 • Page 13 J ~· -~- -·.:: ~;:· ,<, .•.• --.- ' '• ' .. :: .;.~. , .. - Long Day's Journey Into Night In Hartford .,,;Top T~n .-· ~~asoJlS to . Write for A&E By Kimberly Rohback A&E Editor For the holiday weekend, I trav- eled home to Hartford, Connecti- cut, with my neighbor and friend Brooke Zeigerman. Playing at the Hartford Stage was, quite fortu- n(.ltely for us; my favorite play ever, Eugene O'Neil'sLong Day'sJour.., ney into Night. It was phenom- enal. It was three and half-hours of non-stop action. The play, starred such famous actors as An- drew McCarthy from Pretty In Pink and Weekend At Bernie's I & ll, and Ellen Burstyn, from the Exorcist. Burstyn played Mary Tyrone, the tragic mother of two, wife of an actor, and morphine addict. She not only played the age ofher char- acter extraordinarily well, 'but also stayed true to the author's det~iled description. Every detail from the trembling hands to the pinned up white hair was portrayed with ac,.. curacy. For those who are not familiar with O'Neil's autobiographical work, Long Day ;s Journey into Night, is the story of a day in the lifeoftheauthor's fat11ily from wak- ing to sleep. The descriptions of the set !Uld the stage directions are given to the letter, making the piece adirecting challenge and an actor's nightmare. O'Neil requested that the play not be perfo:nned until at least one year after the death of his last family member. This re- quest was made out of respect for his family and the sensitive per- sonal nature ofthe subject matter. O'Neil's father, James Tyrone, is a large looming presence in the house,. He is an actor who has made a sizable fo1tune selling his· talent to the perfermance of one role. He has dragged his family from town to town, living and grow- ing in dirty hotel rooms and speed- ing trains. Despite his love of Shakespeare and the theater, he stayed with his one successful role in order to make enough money so that his family would never be sub- jected to the ~gonies of poverty that he was as an immigrant from Ireland. He is miserly with his sum- mer home, family, and himself. Mary Tyrone, the fictional rep- resentation ofO'Neil's mother, suf- fered from a mental disease after the death of her second child at the age Oftwe. One of the shady doctors her husband sent her to prescribed her morphine for the pain, and she has been unable to stoptaking it. She roams the house like a ghost haunting her. family with memories ofher childhood and her dead baby. Jatnes Tyrone II is the author's brother. He shares his father's problem with alcohol. He is resent- ful ofhis younger brother, Edmund, the character representing O'Neil, and does his best to lead him into the world ofwhores and bars that he drowns himselfin. Edmund is the youngest, and finds r:efuge in his t>ooks, most of them morbid and dreary, as he battles with consumption, the same disease that claimed the life of Mary's father. The family dances around these deep dark is~ ~~~~ ~~;:~g.~:~:::h~a{e~~:~ :~ . ·· · /' : !fJ;>fi;J¥WQfl}haye t~ rearJ 'JJ.tiife:!$:artiales·beeausel will :~::~::~ 0 0 ~~i;~ :~~~hJ:;~ c;:~ , . ( . .: b~ ahlt't;fi~ehim men drown themselves in bottles ofbrandy as Mary wonders around the set in a haze of drug induced nonsense. I enjoyed the play immensely. Hartford Stage did a fine job cast- ing and directing the show. Brooke felt that the third act could have been cut in places, eliminating some of the lengthiness. This was her only objection. The theater was small, reminiscent of the Yulman, and afforded a full bouse, without the distance that comes between an audience and the per- formance in larger spaces. If anyone is interested in taking a road trip to Hartford, it is a beau- tiful theater, reasonably priced seats, and a fine season of shows, with tremendous companies. I strongly encourage those of you who seek theater off-campus to look into this. . 9-,·No m()reCojfoehouse storieJ 8. No more Yulman stories 7. I willhav(J time to edit spelling errors _5.1ll the cool people do it 4. Free crappyCDs 3./t'sfon ... kindof 2. Jttakes very little time 1. You can write whatever you want~ .. no one reads this section. Call Kim @ X 6155 Navigator froiD Scotia Plays for First Coffeehouse of TeriD By Marins Calin Staf!Writer Last Tuesday, the Scotia band, Navigator, played Coffeehouse in the their third performance at Union College this year. You may remember them from their appear- ances at Chet's and the Kappa Al- pha Literary Society during Win .. ter Tenn. Navigator is made up of four musicians that still attend high school. Don't let this fact discour- age you from appreciating the band, since aU the members have extensive m11sical education. The four-man hand is a guitar, bass, keyboard, and drums ensemble. In case you did not hear Navi- gator last Tuesday, their sound echoes popular bands, such as Phish andtheGrateful Dead. The band lists these bands, as well as Medeski Martin and Wood, Parlia- ment, Pink Floyd, and numerous others as a prime source of inflll- ence on their musical stylings. These influences are very appar- ent when you listen to the band play. Navigator does not mimic, but improvises on these genres, devel- oping a sound o.f their own. The band. manages to keep a tight per- formance, even though the indi- vidaal musicians take their instru- ments on tangents and improvise in waves, which seem at times to crash against your eardrums, and other times to soothe them. The au- dience enjoyed this sound, as the Coffeehouse was filled during its Spring Term debut. During the show, like any other at the Coffeehouse, the audience was served a variety of caffeine en- riched refreshments, courtesy of the Coffeehouse (see where we got our name). These include coffee, tea, water, etc. For this spring, es- pecially when it will be getting warmer, we are hoping to add iced coffee and ice cream to our menus for your enjoyment. Ifthere is any- thing you would.like to see added to our menu, talk to one ofthe Cof- feehouse members, you know, those caffeinated freaks running around. Navigator's performance was followed by Open Mic, a frequent activity promoting the talents of Union College students and out- siders wishing to display some of their stylings. Past performers in- clude Brian Mitchell, Mark \Dave Matthews\ Werblin, Donnie \the Beatbox\ Johnson, Matt \Da Brat\ Aronowitz, George Edwards and Marius Calin. Performances are not limited to just music, and range from poetry, to comedy, and improv- (we once enjoyed a TaeKwonDo demonstration). Their successful performance, combined with previous appear- ances, has ensured future engage ... mentsat Union College. Ifyou do wish to book Navigator, please contact Joe Montanaro at (518) 372- 5791, orMattAronowitzatX5816. If you wish to recommend your- self or another performer for the Coffeehouse on Tuesday nights after 8:00PM, please contact Gina LaSorsa at X 5812 or Matt Aronowitz. Think of the Coffeehouse as a Variety Show, and bring us your juggling bears, contortionists, ven- triloquists, and those guys who hammer a nail in any body part. Re- member, nothing is too shocking or appalling for us -we are here to entertain YOU!!! Coffeehouse is every Tuesday night starting at 8:00. It is located in Raymond North neX!t to Sigma Chi. Even if there is a performer scheduled, all are welcomed to participate in Open Mic afterwards. Coffeehouse would like to thank Matt Aronowitz for booking the band and for his efforts in helping to create the first successful cof- feehouse of the tenn. We look forward to another nine weeks of caffeinated fun and cel- ebration of musical, theatrical, po- etical, and any-other-ical talent. Incoherent Ramblings With Deric Harrington By Deric Harrington StaffWriter As one or two of you may have noticed, I didn't write for the Concordy last tenn. I know, I know, dry that single solitary tear form- ing in your left eye, because ... I'm back. You ask yourself, \Why? What did I do to deserve the pun- ishment ofhaving this non-arts and entertainment article back in this sectionofthe paper?\ Well, I'll tell you (and if you have not yet asked yourself that question, you might want to, or else, the following part may not make sense). I did it for the women. There, I said it! I'm not ashamed of it either, let's face it, writing for the Concordy is like having a free personal ad placed every week. That is, with the ex- ception that more people (read: more than five) read the personals. With that said and out of the way, I think I should give all the adoring fans my E-mail address to send me love/hate/indifferentmail. So, here goes: SlapyMcgee@aol.com. There, now I'm sure I'll be hearing from AOL telling me th_!J.t the vol- ume of mail into my mailbox is too much for them to handle. Oh, thafs right, I'm writing in the A&E column, I guess I should touch base with things that actu- ally have to do with Arts and/or Entertainment (although, let's be honest, this article itself is pretty entertaining). I'd like to start off by saying that the heroes of my concert going world, the Clay People, are playing in Albany at Valentine's, on the 16 of this month. They put on a great show, and they'll be headlining a show consisting of Tree, and local new band Ill Remembered. It's $I 0 or so for a show with five bands on it, so you really can't go wrong. I really can't recommend the Clay People enough, and if this gets even just one WRUC DJ to play it on their radio show, I feel like I've done my job (hee hee ... because we all know WRUC is heard well all over the world right? I mean, I have a tough time getting it in my room, and I live on campus. But let's face it, if s a lot offuil to listen to, and even more fun to be a part of). I know that you're all dying to know what I did over spring break, but very simply, I'm not going to tell you. I mean, you don't even return my phone calls ... or you do, but l'm not in, so we get into a big game of phone tag, and one of the times I'm calling you, your room- mate takes a message, but he/she/ it forgets to tell you about themes- sage, and the game ends there, with me thinking that you hate me, and that's why you ended up not calling me, even though in about a week we'll see each other, and ev- erything will be OK, even though deep down inside I think you're still a son-of-a-ANYW A YS, I appear to have drifted a little there, so let's see if I can get back on track here fora few moments, eh? So, Springfest is rapidly ap- proaching ... and what big name do we have perfonning so far this year here? r d love to be able to tell you the answer, but you see, the secret is being so tightly kept, that no one, andlmeanNOONE,knows. Hope- fully however, we'll be able to get someone decent. I know, everyone is probably thinking, \Hey Deric, your music is crap, we don't want that here.\ Hey, that's OK, I mean just we (me boldly speaking for every man/ woman/child/half filled bottle of Pepsi on campus) would like to have someone that we know. I mean, I really en joyed Otis Day last year(everyone: GASP!), and some- one ofthat caliber would be great again. So, you say you were gone first term, and you have no idea who this virtual gigapet of information and senseless ramaling is? Well, I figure, what the heck, my colamn is almost done, I'll introduce my- self (that, my friends, makes for great reading ... other Concordy writers take note, build up an inter- est (something I have not done yet), and leave a cliffhanger for people to ponder over while you senselessly talk in parenthesis). I'm Deric \your ad here, reason- able rates\ Harrington ... and, I'm the kid that's still wearing his leather jacket ... yes, the same kid that at the dance last term had his hair straight in the air. Which brings me to another point ... damn,. can I dance or what (anyone that has a handy laugh track, please press play now, in order to make .me feel better ... thank you). And to bring this back to the A&E theme that is gently running it's fm- gers through the hair of this col- umn, I'll be dancing this term in the production of Cabaret, which will be a bam burner, not to mention every female that goes gets to see me \shake my G thing\ ... whatever that is. Along with a list of very talented dancers, too numerous to list here, but I assure you, if [ had the space to list them, and a list of all of them (as to not miss one's name), I would, because they are very good dancers who deserve every nice thing that can be said about them. So, until next time, I remain Deric \same as I ever was\ Harrington. And remember, I'm not an actor, but I play one on t.v. Next week, I'm finally going to have something to review, as I'm going to a concert or two before I have to write a new column. And as always, watch your head on the way out, as I have a low ceiling,.

Today is Monday, March 29, al- most a full two weeks before this gets printed. We all just got back from howwuz yer break. While most of' you were prob- ably somewhere spe.cial or warm, ,J went into hibernation. I went to sleep as soon as l got home, on the Friday of finals week last term, and then woke up the day we all came back to school. Actually, I just spent the whole time watching a lot of TV. Something that tickled my fancy was the sheer amount of new drug pill commercials that have been popping up all over the place. We have Propecia, Claritin, Genital Herpesalin, and others that end in '\in\, \ac\, \ia\, ~~sy\. These ads are super-sketchy. #I Sketchy award goes to the genital herpes d1ug. One of the days, l was watch- ing the Disney Channel, and after a commercial for glow-in-the-dark building blocks, aJJ adforthe geni- tal herpes drug came on (I forget the name). I know promiscuity is becoming more and more com- mon amongst the youngsters these days, but come on. Who exactly do these companiesthink they are targeting by buying ad time on Disney? If there ARE five year olds hav- ing sex, then they're probably not watching the Disney Channel, be- cause they're too busy ... having sex. What's next? Syphillis drug ads run during Saved by the Bell- The New Class? Beakman's World explaining the chemistry of the clap? These commercials are not just sketchy, but they're also scary. 'fbe last 10 seconds of each one has the narrator explaining, at the speed of light, all the had things that could possibly happen to you if you take their medication. \Pregnant women shouJd not go near broken tablets.\. \Some rare side effects include liver or kidney damage\. \Do not tak~ Propecia if you fear death.\ Jeez, how do I get this stuff? I guess the Viagra scaJe is forc- ing all these \drug dealers\ to cover their butts, just in case they get sued. If s funny that the gov- ernment stopped cigarette ads so long ago, because now they will have the tobacco ofthe nineties to deal with, while children starve on the streets. When I wasn:t watching televi- sion, I spent a lot of time getting annoyed by any human I came into contact with. I don't kn()W why I was so irritable during break, but I managed to find a few flaws with everything. So, I came up with a top ten list. If you have any letters, send them to Box #0040, or feel free to send me an email at aronowm2@union.edu. And just one more thing before the top ten list. We have received word that BiU Hardy is in the mob. Spread the W()rd. Tell your friends that BILLHARDY is in the mob. ; . Top f'en Types ofPeople That Annoy Me J(L You tanned bastards. 9. Th-e losers that stand outside of tile MTV studios in Times Square: during Total Request Live. 8.Crack-heads in NYC who talk to thernselves. 7. People who never leave their roorns. 6.Crack-heads in Schenectady who talk to themselves. 5.Y()U. 4. \The audience members on The Price is Right who wave at the screen in the studio, instead of waving at the camera. They don't even realize that they look like cCJmp-lete morons on TV- waving\ in the wreng direction. 3.I>rivers that tailgate you in the right lane on the highway. 2. People who WALK down (or up) escalators. LY()u \Howwuz yer break?\ bastards. Shut up already. The End of th·e Long Ride The countdown has begn11. Well, for me at least. I have al- ready started toincessantly obsess · over the fa<?t that this is my last term at Union College·. lt is a strange and quite unsettlin~ feel- ing, originating somewhere deep in the middle of my stoma<:h and running up to the caverns ()f my throat,] have been trying tornake the most of every day that l have left here and so far I am doing . pretty w_e!L ......_ Spring break was a nice time with my famity, a. fun little cruise through the Babamas during which I gained about I 0 pounds from all · the buffet-style dinners. R~gard­ less, it was nice to soak in a little sun and float through the salty waters of the Bahamian beaches .. My family and l bjckered a bit, but nothing overly dramatic occltlTed. While I was away l didn't really think about the fact that my time at college was dose to ending. I let my mind drift into leisu:re and occupied my thoughts with: noth- ing more stressful than ¥Vhat I wanted to drink with dinner. But now that I am here, back in the reality of it all, I have to fa:ce the changes ahead of me. For anyone else who is abc.ut to embark on that foreign period of time that expands after college and ends with a family and 2-car ga- That\fi'eshness\ is something that ha~ left me since I have grown more comfortable at Union and with the people around me. I still enco\lnter new faces, but my frie11ds are pretty much set and form a. nice social foundation upon Wh1ch l can always rely. I do miss the ctrri<>us searching of being a fresllman, but am also glad to be past aU of that uncertainty. I do feel old now. I may nQt vis- ibly a~pear more mature, but I feel it rn my heart. I know that it is time for rne to move on, that I have sort of outgrown my wildness. I am ready for a different kind of expe- rience that doesn ;t center around the microcosm of peers that sur- round me at Union College. There is so much more out there that I am y<Jaming to find, to see, to feel. I clo want to cherish these last few rnonths, though, and of course I am afraid ofleaving the .security I have found here. It is always a risk, to ·leave behind something that is so familiar and warm, But tak.i11g that chance, looking to- wards <Jpportunities that may be a bit uncertain, is what life is all about, -------------------------------------1 rage, I offer a moment of reflec- Y<>u 'II never know if there· is sometlling better out there if you don't try new things. I think a lot of people get caught in a familiar routine and are afraid to break out of it, leaving them unable to have any superlative experiences. Me- diocrity of experience is far too often the plight of young adults. Tapper's Column Returns by Jon Tapper StaffWritt?r lsn 't life amazing? Just when you thought that you finally rid yourself of this miserable column, it shows back up in this section serving even less ()fa purpose than before. My column will not die. Despite an extremely over· loaded schedule both academically and socially and a new editor for this section (who apparently doesn't care what goes into this section as long as she fills it), this piece of garbage keeps getting published. Like those great men Elvis and Tupac, 1: cannot and will not go away. And why is this? I have anum- ber of different thwries. First, this column has strength proportional to a spider and cannot be killed by any conventional weapons (theory \borrowed\ from an ongoing au- tobiography by James Owens). But that's probably not the right answer to why this column keeps getting published. My second theory is that the new editor of this secti()n really missed seeing me around the Concordiensis office when I stopped writing last term. That seems like a much more reason- able explanation to me. Let's face it, at a small liberal arts college located in Schenectady, New York. this col- umn is about as high profile as it gets around here. Moving on. Another baseball se~son is finally upon us. I have said it before and I will definitely say it again. It's hard work being a Boston Red Sox fan in New York. All I hear is all ofthis stu- pid crap about the Yankees repeat- ing as world champions with a fonner Red Sox pitcher as their ace. This will not happen. And just like I said during my baseball pre- view last year, I am on<:e again going to predict that the Red Sox will win it an· again this year and that the Yankees will finish in last place in the American League East. And like last year, l will end my 1999 baseball preview C()lumn by saying that all Yankee fans are ig- norant and. don't know anything about baseball except btJying up all of the other teams gocd play- ers. Sonotonly are all ofthose Yan- kee fans ignorant, but they are also thieves too. And added to that, I have only three simple words for you:. R<>ger Will Choke! On another topic, I just want to say that l love Union College dur- ing spring term. Nothing beats that day w~en the mysterious cloud leaves Schenectady for the rest of the seas()n and it gets real nice out. I love just sitting outside and pre- tending that I'm getting some work done. You can tell I don't have that mucht() say this week when I start rambling on about spring term I ike I just did. Let's hope I think .of sometlli ng good to write for next week. WeLl,. that just about does it for this week's· article. Next week I hope t{) make this column a little bit lollg(lr and more informative. But it feels good to be back and once a.gain taking up space in this paper. As always, all questions and comments are welcome at Box# 2037. U11til11ext week's edition, try to get s<Jrne of that work done dur- ing this beautiful, sunny spring weather. tion. Never again in our lives will things feel this carefree or comfort- ably sheltered. But dwelling on the fact that I am leaving is n:either healthy nor productive. I am allow- ing myself this one article to harp on the issue and then I am letting it go for the rest of the tenn. Oth- erwise, I would drive myself crazy and yes, I would end up whining about it in the newspaper. I can admit to my own vices ... . I stilI remember movi:11g in freshman year, meeting my Orien- tation Advisor; and feeling the rush of new faces at every corner. Freshman year; I said \hell()\ to everyone, I felt !iO willing to make friends and discover new tllings. Fornow, though, I am here and I will embrace the times I still have left. Tllankfully, I am blessed with a relatively calm schedule this term, leaving me with a somewhat \free-spirit\ mentality. I am happy to enjc.y my days, breathe in the famil ia:r Union air for a little while longer. I have nothing to stress about and I will just gradually move tllrough these next few montlls. The adventure is just be- ginning. I am thankful for this time ahead of me, a last grasp at youth, and a la:st chance to feel free in my skin.

Features C'li:.om:udritn:lliis • April8, 1999 • Page 15 A Season of Change A .Fictional Sh.ort Story Writing Piece by Jessica Stephens Contributing .Wr.iter creating their own autumn memo- thing rnQre like home where some:· and to the right is the living room. ries replace those of her own. one was !lllticipating lur retum. She traverses along the sea of She s.ees growing up as perni- For now, the only thing tint hardwood floors, which intensify gated. cious and this envy of\ilinocence awaited I1er was emptirtess. the loud clctnk of her high he~ls. Once again, she looks outside to the slowly progressing day a11d sees tile relentless vitality of life exemplified through this <Joe street, a microcosm for the city it- self. She turns the cor11er heading ontcJ Comm Ave carrying nothing witiJ ller but a DeLuca;s grocery bag;. Her long hlaclc trench coat sways with each stride and her cosmopolitan disposition charac- terizes her a Stereotypical \city girl'\. · Yet,. she exudes a uniqueness that pelletrates through her con- venJional metropolis attire, mak- ing em11lation unattaimtble. As she watks through the crisp autumn air, !l smile replaces the ponder- ous glaze solidified ()11 her face, givii11g a sense of levity to her. Today she recalls chilc!hood Oc- tobers of frolicking through fall- iAg foliage and watcllfng Notre Dame football every Saturday morrting, while 'sprawled acress tlie sofa. yet as she nears the stair- wayleading up to her brownstone, she realizes these images are now a mere. landscape to a picture, motantedandhung,Iongago. The SOUilds\of neighborbo~>d children - . lost\ disc;ourages her. She too She prtOceeds deeper int<> the As she paces, she cannllt help once had aspirations for eternal r---------------..----, but be en~eloped by a sense of youth an<! a forever free spirit. loneliness. The walls surrounding Yet, somehow she ended up in an ''Vacant g[tlSS this desolate entrapment are a soft- entanglement of corporate meet~ .·1. d white and bare, and they yearn for ings,du.plicitous socialites and in,. c upuoar s crave . pictures and paintings to disguise escapable dinner engagements, • h b \t l ).1' their nakedness. The ceiling; fan faHing victim to the unavoidable ln. a , l all S 0 J hangs in its immobile state and the life cycle. martini an·d wlnt! television sits staunch, a silent She makes her way passively, as square of gray. Thekitchenhasnot to avoid the ta,sks which lay ahea~ glasses, insinuat- yet been broken in; take~out bcxes and enjoys the animation befall- clutter the C()unters as the sink re- ing on her street with this change ing the· .dinn.er mains empty and the stove cor- in season. Reaching her destina- .J:.. • d mant. The rnassive. stainless- steel tion, she ascends the stairs that gat,-,ertngs an .·· refrigeratorexudesadeceivingar- hide beneath a vibrant carpet of c. ocktailpartie. 'S rogant quality, as it only cllills a leaves. \Dammit.\ she mumbles small quart of milk and some ran- as she fumbles with her keys, hav~ that lay ahettd. r•r dom pieces of fruit. Vacant glass ing to put down the parcel to get cupboards crave inhabita11ts of at the lock She steps inside the .__ __________ __, martini and wine glasses, illsinu- foyer, placing the bagdown on the · ·foyer and :s:keptically re-views her ating. the dinner gathering;s and dark slate floor. Rather than seek- surroundi11gs. Extending; to the left cocktail parties that lie ahead. ing a relaxing retreat she re~ains is ()ne l(irge room with a panel of ·Slowly but certainly,· her per- by the do<>rWay surrounded by a windows alon~ piJe,,side; t(} tile ceptions ()f what will be gi-ve the feeling ofuneasiness. ba~k of tflis room is the kitcllen. house'a reviving feeling ofhope Mayb~ she was _ex:pectipg tore- Towards tile front of th~ foyer is and energy, and her bitterness to- turn to something different, some- the stairwell whicll leads upstairs,. wards what\ actually is, is 111iti- The yellow rays which pen- etrated the ground earlier today have now transformed into a subtle orange glow that illuminates :the outside. The windows absorb these soft hues, projecting them into the house and they diffuse throughout the rooms. this was the autumn she bad remembered. It still had the power ~o create vivid images and trans- form tbe ordinary into a bright pal- ette of colors. It pacified her to see the essence of a season could be captured anywher~. Looking outside, she witnesses an autumn proceeding unaltered and that those of the past live vicariously through those of the future. N()W, the empty room became a starting; point f()f new memories and new autum.ns, and soon she would be calling this place home if she hasn't already. Spring I Su:mmer Classes at the Al-bany Kaplan Center Executive Park Drive ' Stuyvesant Plaza • Albany .. GMAL TtlES 4111 9003 61W.P~t RESR TKUitS. M08 4/$ $!00PM LJAl MON MON .. '9'0()4 s·.~2P2.. ;o/2P~M uv Iff . O:!iJ i lSAL !()07 LSAL $llOS IWICAL '901)$ MCAL . 9<JIJ7 l'utl l!i/!G f:OOPM - 1/t 1:00PM 'l'ulll $at 8/:1. 6/G 8:00 J:IM: 10AM IIIII Wed ljs.$ 8/1G 1013 t.WPM lues 6/8 G:IIO·PM SUit 6/20 tout n;r.:s 411& 6:00PM 'ltU 5/2! 6:00PM Sat :6/~ . 10AM Wed &/U 6:00Ptll l'i><~lhO TUIS Qf.U\u.f Sit ~wtJorM- '-'ffil'M 'lllr Mll)paj TUES Pla:ll:r ... tUE'$ C/1 . lkaldt. G/4 ·~,.., . S.\'O ... - ·:· ~/l!li . 6:00PM TIIURS TUES TIIURS . 4/15. 4/20 4/22 ~:OOtJ.M 6:00PM 6:00PM WED 6/$ 6:0DPM Tu\ Sit fiJas lfi$ l/111 enz 1:00PM J.OAM ~OGPN &1111 Wed Wed o;n 8/SO 't}1 10 AM SlOOI'M 8:00PM Sat tl/26 MON 4/2tl 6:00PM TtJell f/28 10AM 4I:OO'PM s.rt Well 1/U f/l4 10 AM ..... tv£5 $111 11Ml'fof Tli£S ruES l'llrl;!l(t .... G/U $/22 . Gill &'At 0 ~-~· :: e:~.PH ti:OOI\M . ,.,...,, · .. 1llES fHI.JR$ 4/27 4{29 G:OOllM G:OOPM MD-~ W£0 G/21 '6/23 6:00PM &::DOPM .'~lliM r.Rlf!l ~ MON ftroN 5/10 ,_, : 5/17 6/1 6:00PM . ::: 6:00 PM 6:0trPM Tuff. T~•• .: 0 ~!It ' Tves Sit . TUil Te~es 716 71:13 7/1t T/20 ~/24' 1!2.7 S/3 G;(IQ.ffl 8:00 PN 9AIII i:()~ '\\ 1() AM 6~0PM S~PM ., Sill Wed 0 fa.t· .., Wef hi\ wee~ 7~· 1121 1/24 ·. 1/~ 1/'1$ 4!1 1/4 lOAM G:otNI 9ML 10AM •:OOPM lOAM 1:00PM . . . . .. a.:~ .• : -i 1·800-KAP·TEST fliES us 6.ii05J ~~~- Atttllll 1M shOp Woolli!MI .,. lfttt 1124 Y;2r Att.l AaM ~ ~ ... llftlt\ flU .,. can today to reserve your seat! 1·800~KAP·TEST www.kao1a1n.com !i .: . : •• t ' .. 0 o'ltt.M .. ,,at\. .:···; \Sun : ·~·:. . www, ~.. :· ... . . ·ill• ,.,,u~ ·~·1/7 :: 'J/8.: ~ 1/14' .,. :··~:;: ·::tAM. 'tAM ·.s~·· ·~ , \ ... ~ ... : '•' •YI<f \ .... . •\ .... :I O' I~..: I. . ~: . . ! .: ... . ' 1 • • • '' . ! . : ~ ~ . . . . .. .... . . .. i i. . ... , ..... . . H ~ .- : j_, :!:~·:: .... :.~} .Ablt!J ·:·-~:'\' ~. Stll : .. --- .., :·:rp.t' i 0 8/f ·- \:a/!· _.1}1.4 U4 8.01,;. .. tAM .. . ,AM .. ~~~: •, ' ~ .,. :-~: ....... •• t h :·:: .· • • • 'C .. .. ~ . .. '· ~ .. ~ t .. : .. : ' .. :.. -.~~: !.:•· .... . . \·

YOU Have 'BettEr tHinGS to DO tHan watcH tHe GRass grow. Like gettin(l ahead in your college career. MCC Summer Sessions. lhey\ll help you feel relaxed aH year tong. For details, caJI Monroe Community College in Rochester at 80M24-SUMMEft or visit www,monroecc.edu. MONrOE COM·muntTY COLLeGe Spend your summer doing something sm(lrter. Skidmore College Presents ... ~in Neat. . oA. .. ·. of .,, Saturday Night Live Saturday, April 17th Skidmore College Saratoga Springs, NY Sport and Recreation Center For Tickets Call TICKETMASTER ·at (518) 476-1000 Admission Only $15 Doors Open at 8:30PM Show Begins 9:00PM ' '

Science & Technolo ·Transplant Policy Needs Reform by \'icto.riaHa.rgreaves Science and Technology Editar Everyd11y 90 names are added to the national organ transplant waiting ]:ist and every day 12 people die while waiting. Current · policy anocates organs based pri-- marily on geographic proximity to the donor, .not the extent of the reQipient'.s sickness. It allows a person living inN ew York City to wait 511 days, on average, for a liver but a person living in north- elll New Jersey to wait only 56 days. Unless this policy is changed to distribute organs nfl;tionaUy based on the levelofthe recipient's illness, patients will continue to die unfairly. National distdbution will give priority t()the sickestpatients who have been waiting the longest rather thMI local distribution that carrently gives priority to patients who live closest to the donor. A policy that distributes organs na- tionally will even the widely vary- ing waiting times between regions and, in fact, save 300 lives annu- ally, according to the Health and Human Services agency. While Sllpporters oflocal distri ... bution argue that allocating organs to the sickest patients under a policy of national distribution would be a \waste\ of organs, one must consider how organs are cur.: rently appropriated. The United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS), aprivate, nonprofit orga- nization created by Congress in l9'S4 to team-up with the Health and Human Services Agency to distrib- ute organs, has divided the nation into II regions. When an organ becomes available for transplanta- tion, it is offered first locally and then regi()nally based on a point system. In the case of a liver, for example, points are awarded for compatible blood types, similar body sizes., and the length of time spent on the waiting list. Waiting time is similarly a factor used to determine who will receive other organs including kidneys, pancreases, hearts, and lungs. If there are two possible recipients, the person with more points will receive the organ. A person who has waited longer and is sicker than another candidate whose name has been on the waiting list for a shorter time period will have more points and a .higher probability ()freceiv- going to a recipient locally. How- performed by only 27% of the cen- ing the organ: Therefore, nati<>nal ever, a survey conducted by UNOS ters. The study also found that the distribution, like current p()licy, in 1994 directly contradicts this centers that conducted the fewest wotilddistribute organs,t<l Jl(!(}ple statement. The data concluded that transplants had the highest num- who have been waiting lo11gerand 66% of the public would be more her of patients with below-average l:lecernesicker. inspired to donate if organs were survival rates. While it is unfortu- The claim that distributil1g or\ distril>uted nationally rather than nate that people will lose jobs if gans nationally to those .r-------------------.-------. small transplant centers w'hoaremost ill is, an \in· ' 'Waiting tor the Good Word . are closed down under a effective use\ ofthe sup· : ·policy of national distri- d · •D•mand and waiting tim• for organtnmsplallt& ply is unfoun ed and un· ' l'taw. V4fled ilmongthe mglon~ of tha United bution, one must remem- true. A study conductedi . : ... etwork for 0.~ Sharing. . ber that this is an issue in 1992 foundthatmortaJ. · ~ ~~ of saving ·people's lives, neg~«.~na In lhe · ity tates before and after . Of!Pn-elurlng ne~wort not stimulating the transplantation were low· • . economy. est when status one .pa· · The money that is tients, the patients most • saved from operating in need ofmedical inter- these smaller, low-per- vention, received organs . forming centers can be before the less ifl .status put into remedying local two ,Patients even though. distribution supporters' stat\ls one patients have .. next argument: the poor a shorter life expectancy. cannot access the large According to this model, ...... ·· transplant centers. This 7S% ofthe organ recipi· S ··t, . money can pay for the ents survived more than poor to travel to these one year after transplan· 1.1\'ERTftAt.lSPLAJrr$-:ANE:ICAMPLE\ larger centers. However, tation when status one ~.~mel · itisunlikelythatthiswill patients were given prior· .. :f2atlents who registered for liver be a necessary measure ity. .trailsplanl$, tJ.y region. because national distri- Sixty-six percentofor· bution is designed to gan recipients survived at eliminate favoritism to- least ()ne year when the wardtherichanddiscrimi- model was reversed an<i' nation against the poor. status two patients were National distribution will given priority. Not only is make waiting times fairer a po]icy designed to maxi- 1 'll ' \ $ 1 7 8 • ta ' 1 so neither the rich northe mize successful outcomes ~t\\O Time poor will have to travel to not cturently in effect, it fltan nurnbe:rd dayG spent wattJng for liver locations where waiting 1t:aMp1ants, by ngion. isalso impossible. Basing times for organs are a distribution policy on shorter. The poor and the the efficacy of transplants rich will have equal ac- cess to organs. tomaximize organ and pa- tient survival would dis- tribute more organs to Ca11casians and discrimi-. nate against African- Americans and Asians.' 1 ta & 7 e t1 to n Similarly, the famous ·Gay Stolberg, SheryL \Fight Over Organs Shifts to • will.nothave an unfairad- Sta:1es from Washington.\ New York Times: l I March vantage under a policy of lt99\),sec.A: I.\ national distribution. These two groups consi st·ently have lower access to transplamta- tion and biological factors t~at in- terfere with transplants su<:il as lower degrees of tissue com pati bil- ity. Also,a study conducted by the Natimal Institute ofPublic 1-lec!lth found that society valuesirnJJrov- ing the health of a person wh<l is e\tremely ill even if that per.;on does not survive mote tnani1 \Jal- ues curing a person whom is 111 od- erately ill and lives. Localism's proponents also ar- glle that national distributi<On \Nill cause fewer people to d()nate _if they know that their orgms are not locally. Therefore a policy of na- tional distribution would, in fact, increase donation rates. Possibiy the iargest and most justified contention of localism's suppo1ters is that national distri- bution will unfairly favor large transplant centers who have larger waiting 'lists and more compatible patients, forcing smaller centers to shut down. Although this may be true, it is not necessarily for the worst. A study published in the Jour- nal ofthe American Medical Asso- ciation on October 7, 1998 reported that 7 5% of I iver transplants were Cases like the one of Mickey Mantle, who received a liver on June 8, 1995 after only 48 hours of his name being on the waiting list, would no longer occur uriderthe proposed policy. Mantle intentionally traveled to Dallas where the average waiting time for a liver for a patient in his condition is three and one-third days. Al- though he was first on the waiting list in this region, he would not have been at this position on a natiorialwaiting list. Under a policy of national distribution, the liver would have likely gone to a patient who had been on the waiting list for several hundred days regard- less .of that person's ability to travel or his ability to pay. The argument ofthose who op- pose national distribution (that it discriminates against the poor who cannot afford to travel} is unjusti- fied. Presuming that the poor or their insurance companies can af- ford to pay for the organ trans- plant, the cost of travel alone should not hinder the operation. According to UNOS, a liver trans- plant and one year of follow~up care, on average, costs $314,000. While transporting an organ from ~he northeast to the southwest on a private jet can cost as much as $10,000, most organs can be trans- ported on commercial airlines at relatively low costs. Medicare and Medicaid pay for only 39%ofall transplants and pri- vate insurance companies pay for only 38%. Without insurance ap- proval, a person who cannot pay for the transplantation indepen- dently is not even placed on the waiting list. Therefore, the issue should not be that the poor are unable to afford travelling to large transplant centers under a policy of national distribution; rather, it should be that they cannot afford the transplantation under the cur- rent poI icy. One question that localism sup- porters should raise but have not is whether a policy ofnational dis- tributioll is technologically fea- sible. Technology can preserve liv- ers for 24 ho.urs without damage to the organ or the recipient and pancreases and kidneys are viable for up to 24 and 72 hours respec- tively. But no technology exists yet to extend the five-hour-viabil- ity of hearts or livers. The sh{)rtage of donor organs is a national problem. More than 61,000 Americans are currently waiting for organs, but because of the short supply, only approxi- mately 20,000 transplants are ac- tually performed annually. As the number of hepatitis incidences is expected to increase drastically in the next ten years, the number of people in need of liver transplants is expected to increase five fold. While the best solution, a com- parative increase in the number of donated organs, is unlikely, at least a more equitable distribution of or- gans nationally to the neediest patients is imperative. Can You OD on Vitamins? by Steve Ayers Contributing Writer Hoping to head off a cold one day, I chose one of the health drinks sold in the campus center high in Vitamin C. Upon reading the label, I later discovered that I had just ingested I 000% of the rec- onnrtended daily value ofVitamin C. I have never heard of anyone col1apsing into convulsions after overdosing on Vitamin C, and ac- cording to my Biology text book, the most serious side effect to a Vitamin C overdose is diarrhea. However, the increasingly wide- spread practice of mixing vitamin supplements into seemingly in- nocuous food products is·all alal'trl- ing trend to me. I mix medicine into my dog's food and I find itdisttlrb- ing that someone has taken ab<dut the same approach to my pers()nal health. As new-age medicine lle- comes a rnulti-hill iort dol tar inthts- try, I believe it should be regll ]a. ted in the same way that the pfta.rrna- <:euticalindustry is now. Vitamin supplements lulve IJe- come quite popular in recent years. Between 191)0 and 1996, constlrner spending on vitamin supplements increased from $3 billion to $(i.5 billion. Since they are not classi- fied as drugs, they are n()t subject to many ofthestandards that medi- cations are, allowing them to be marketed more freely. New alterna- tive medicines such as Echinanea, Ginko and Kaba are released at about th.e same pace as the salves of yesteryear. Consumers seem to be motivated by curiosity, the em- powennent of self-medication, and the alleviation of guilt in the case of v·itamin-packed snack foods. Peace Cereals, based in Eugene, Oregon, offer such exotic herbs as ginseng, ginkgo; gotu kola, and fo- ti in theit' breakfast cereals. What consumers may not realize is the potential hearth hazards of ingesting such a wide array of sub- stances. Because they are sold as vitamin supplements, their dosage and purity is not regulated by the Food and Drug Administration, even in those products sold in pill form. Some of these substances can have harmful effects, especially for people on other medications. Ephe- dra, a,compound in Mormon Tea, c()ntains ephedrin that can cause . high blood pressure and sometimes lead to heart attacks. Ginseng can neutralize the effects of some anti- hypertensive drugs. Kava can in- teract with some antianxiety drugs, such as Xanax. It is important to remember tbat vitamin supplements are real medi• cines that can have potent effects. Many of these products are no more than placebos, offering peace of mind Mid expensive urine. But some of them are quite powerful. The wrong pill could send you to the emergency room. These sub- stances have great potential for the future of medicine, but the role of doctors should not be circum- vented tluough self-medication. As new age medicine changes from a cottage industry to a multi-bil· lion dollar business, it should fall under the same regulations as the mainstream phannaceutical indus- try.ln the tnean time, watch what you e~t.

Baseball Shuts Down Saints, Regains Momentum by Rory Stern StaffWriter The Men's Baseball team began the 1999 season in Florida. As the team began last year's season 2-7, they continued their Spring Break streak of0-8. The team played .all close games, except against a Top I 0 Division II team. The team faced Middlebury and Colby and played even with them, but couldn't fin- ish when they had to. dent and were determined to win- ning. The team played behind Se- nior CO-ca:ptain pitcher Crai.g Kazmierczak Kazmierczak led the team offto a 7-4 victory over St. Lawrence. The team led through- out the whole game, taking control in the first inning when scoring tw() runs. This first inning lead for the team contributed to their first lead through a whole game this sea- son. Kazmierczak completed6 1/3 innings, giving up three earned runs. Jake Gunschel, a junior trans- fer student, came in and preserved the lead earning his first save in the Dutchmen uniform. The team played well together and recovered from their first game loss, playing as a differentteam. Union waits to see if Junior Eric Kopka can bring home another run for the team. Cory Sill!en/TC Upon their return to Union, the team went straight to work and picked up three wins in their two doubleheaders this past weekend. On Saturday the team took on St. Lawrence splitting the games (The first game) The Dutchmen lost 5-3, behind pitcher Jason Warzala who pitched very well until hurting his ann. Freshman Rob Moody en- tered the game with no wann-ups, and gave up one run, while trying to pull out of a l-1 tie. With a run- ner on third, St: Lawrence tool< a 2- 1 lead on a base hit and controlled the game from there on. After Moody's attempt, Murdoch Walker came into finish the game but couldn't hold things together. However, entering the second game, the Dutchmen were confi- The previous day was full of ac- tion as the team collected two vic- tories, sweeping Clarkson. Both games kept the home crowd on their feet as Union pulled out both victories in the bottom of the sev- enth inning. Starting the first game for the Dutchmen was CO-captain ----\\'---------------------------------------= ~• Ryan Almstad. Almstad went the distance recording his first win of the season. The game was a close one all the way through, but broke open early in the seventh. It wasn't until the top of the seventh inning when Clarkson took the lead on a ... :- Ory ~IJJU:II/ Senior third baseman Todd Ellis touches the plate after a single brought him home. two run shot i>y their clean-11p hit- ter. Taking a one run lead into the bottom oftlle seventh, Uni()n an- swered with a lead single by Brian Slekes. Clean up hitter Murdoch Walker doubled to put Slekes in third. With nmners in scoring po- sition, Senior CO-captain Todd Ellis doubled to win the game. Freshman Seth Burrows started the second game for the Dutchmen. Playing strong in Florida, he was only able to go three innings. David Pennachia filled in and gave up two runs in the sixth. Pennachia started off the seventh inning giving up two walks and a hit. The bases were loaded with no outs when Freshman Rob Moody was called upon to get the Dutchmen out of this predicament. Moody's \inexperience at the college level was soofi jaded as he recorded three outs finishing off the inning,\ Speaking with Moody after the game he was very confident about his pitching abilities and the situation. RolY also stated that he was very happy about the win. Behind Moody's pitching, the team went into the bottom of the seventh with a 6-6 tie .. Leading off in the seventll was Brett Zani who doubled to right center. Zani was then hunted over to third by Brian G(lUld. Pinch hitting for Eric Kopka was Junior CO~captain Zack Killg who brought Zani home squeezing a single between first and second. The Dutchmen now have pulled their record to 3-9 and lo()k to add one more win to the column. Ahead this week for the Dutchmen is an away game at Ski<lrnore on Wednesday and RIT and the Uni- versity of Rochester on Friday and Saturday. UCAA Standings Team Union Hamilton St. ·Lawerence Clarkson RP·I · ·~'!ltl.·.·:d.m· 9te, - ~ -~ ::.. . . •' . . ·,;._., (UCAA) (Ovendl) W-L-T PTs W-L-T 3~1-0 9 3-9-6 2-2-0 6 5-l 0-0 2-2-0 6 2-7-0 I -3-0 3 3 -8-0 0-0-0 0 \ . 1 1-S-.0 o~o~ -o 0 .. ·• 5-9·0 . ·;S·~r~~!~/~i~~!;#!;~, . · ·';:~~:rB.jl1e.tf!. :: · f f2:1~t:;~Jfi.:.:~3ZJQ.t\r~~al\t. ·~uti.:· M·u,rdoclt . . ~ .. ~:~~~~~~~.:-~'~:.~Q.4~:·tti.~~Ut;:AA:. Q~liot ((6ft :tbi$ wee.k.· ·\' ' ' > • ;· • • ' • ~ • :·

:fi\'li•J. ---- ·------ ·· · ·------ --- -- -· ·---·-·-- = · - -- ·· -- · ~-- - - · · ·- -·-- ~- -- Sports Women's Lax Moves into Top 20 a 19-17 win. \'It was an unbeliev- Moss scored her first goal of the season as the Dutchwomen fell to l-2 over spring break. Bevelander added, \Our scores don't reflect our play. Against Tufts we had great defense and against William Smith we has great offense. We just have to put it together.\ by David Brooks Editor-in-Chief While :the majority of the Union student body was either baking in the sun, or relaxing at home, the women's lacrosse team traveled to Florida to rev up for their season:. With morethanathirdoftheteam being new to Union, eight fresh- men and one sophomore,. head coach Linda Bevelander' s main goal over the break was to \getthe team to work together and get to know each other better. We bonded.\ In their schedule, the Dutchwotn en play seven top 20 teams. On March 22, the team faced off against Wellesley in Florida. I{ old .. ing an 8-5 lead at the half, the Dutchwomen again came out strong and walked away with an impressive 19-11 victory. Union was led by freshman Jane Kaplon as she scored five goals in her col- legiate debut. Junior Abby Harris chipped in with four goals of her own. Captain Sarah Moss said, \The expectations were extremely high after our strong finish last yeav, and this year we have come to- getherand are playing like a team.\ Two days later, the women battled twelfth ranked Tufts Uni- versity. Tufts came out strong against the Dutchmen and took a commanding 6-2 lead. Tufts did not look back in the second. half and they roiJed to a 12-6lead over Union. Freshman Tara Ilesly net- ted two goals and Harris netted two as well. The road did not get any easier as Union faced third ranked Will- iam Smith on March 26. The Dutchwomen again found them- selves behind their opponent at half- time, this time trailing 8-4. The teams would duplicate the score in the second half, ending the game with a 16-8 loss for Union. William Smith couldn't stop Sam Ryall and Harris, who each had three goals. Last TuesdCJ.y, the women did justthat. They traveled to Hartwick able game. It was so emotional, the effort, everything was amaz- ing,\ said Bevelander. \They won the game with heart and desire.\ Moss, Ryall, and Shoko Okado each had four goals G>n the day. Harris chipped in two goals and three assists as the Dutchwomen improved theirrecord to 2-2.7 Sophomore Lauren Dill goes. for a ground ballon Tuesday against Middlebury. to take on the seventeenth ran.Ked Hawks. Atthe half, Hartwick held a 7-6 edge over the Dutchwomen. The second half featured five ties and four lead changes. At the end of regulation the women were tied at 15 after Hat1wick scored with 1: 161eft in regulation. In the first half of overtime Union took their first lead with 1 :54 left on a Moss goal. Union ended the game with On Easter Weekend, the Dutchwornen traveled to Vassar and sixteenth ranked CoJby. On Saturday, the Dutchwomen were able to break out of a 4-4 halftime score and explode for 10 goals to finish the game with a 14-S victory. \We came out very slow. I took a time-out and told them to pick it up,\ said coach Bevelander. Harris led the scoring attack scoring five goals, and sophomore Margaret Merriam sc()red four ofher own. · On Sunday, the ])utchwomen met Colby atahalfwaypoint, Gov- em:or DummerAcademy in Byfield, MA. A large number of fans trekked out to the Nt:w England Prep Schoolcampus .on a cold and windy Sunday aftemoon. With memoriesoftheirfour-goalloss to Colby last season, Uni<Jn came out fived up. Colby .scored first, but at the half, Unionseemeclto be domi- nating the Mules, w.ith the game tied at five. With 11 :27left, Colby went on a J . .:o :run and had a l 0-7 lead over the Dutchwornen. Union, refusing to give up, scGred with l0:03togo. However, with under a minute to go, Colby controlled. tile ball with a I 0-9 lead. After a quick steal, Moss was able to penetrate Colby's .defense and s<:ore the ty- ing goaL Bevelander added, \It was basically a broken play.\ Just as the fans were asking about over- time rules, Harris had a penalty shot. The shot sailed two inches over the crossbar and game ap- peared destined for overtime. Uniori had one more dunce. With possession of the ball~ Union got the ball in the hands <lftheir scor- ing leader, Harris, who shot one_ past Colby's netrninderwith 19sec- onds left in tile game. They held off Colby in the final 19 seconds and captured their third straight victory, two of which were over ranked teams. Captain Jess Paige said, \People take us lightly, but when we step out on the field, we play hard.\ Harris had four goalsfortheday, Ryall netted three, and Okado aJ tel Merriam each had two goals. Senior g.oaltender Maura Woessnerplayedoutstand- ing in the second half, holding Colby scoreless in the last ten min- utes. \I told hert<> play like a wolf who hasn't eaten in two days,\ Continned on P(lge 20 Middlebury Too Tough For Union Men by Hugh Meyer Staff Writer The Union Men's Lacrosse team returned from southern California last weekend confident and poised for a successful season. The trip to California gave the Union players and coaches a first hand iook of how the team will perform during the regular season. The team is full of young talent and seasoned veterans, which have come to the fore to set the tone for the 1999 season. This team plays a very _physical game with tough defense that will undoubtedly allow the Dutchmen to win several games this year. On Tuesday, March 30, the Union College Men's Lacrosse team traveled to Hartwick College to take on a nationally ranked opponent. In the previous years, the Dutchmen have provided a stiff challenge for Hartwick and Tuesday's game. was no different. Freshman Pat Forrest opened the game in goal for the Dutchmen and played spectacularly. He stopped I 5 of Hartwick's 25 shots on goal, many of which came at point blank range. The defense in front of Forrest was just as solid, delivering bone-crushing hits and containing Hartwick's talented front line. Another star em the defensive end was Dave Gatti, who played a \very physical game and was exceptional on crease slides\. Co- Captain Steve Hoyt was very impressed with the play of Gatti, along with the other younger players and noted, \ The- defense was exceptional and the freshman played with extreme confidence.\ However, Union spent a great deal ofthegame defending its own goal and encountered significant problems on. the offensive end. The Dutclunen could not control the ball and many of their shots came from deep outside the crease area. The front line of Union consists of two sophomores and a freshman; this lack of experience carne into play against a gritty, veteran Hartwick squad. Co- Captain Steve Hoyt said, \Our offense was a bit timid, but there was some solid play\. The lone goals for Union were scored by Scott Dutcher, Chad Schneider and Jon Schiff. The next game for the Union Men's Lacrosse team came on Fri- day, April2 against Vassar College. Clearly, Vassar was no match for the Dutchmen; Union played an outstanding ·all around game. Leading the way again for Union was Scott Dutcher, Who tallied 7 goals and 4 assists. Jon Sc.hiffhad 4 goals and Kurt Kimball, Chad Schnieder and Nate Peck each had 3 assists. Co- Captain Ste~e Hoyt noted that, \ it was good to get a win under our belts. It was tough to see the improvement; but a win's a win.\ The Dutchmen spent the majority ofthe game on the offen- sive end and was able to capitalize on countless mistakes made by Vassar. This was a game where all 4 goalies saw action. Wben the clock struck zero, the scoreboard read Union 22 Vassar 2. On Tuesday, April 6, the Union College Men's Lacrosse team faced stiffest competition of the young season; Middlebury College, ranked fifth in Division III came to Frank Bailey field to face the Dutch- men. For much of tile first half, Union hung with the tough Middle- bury squad; Junior Nick Goater set the tone for the Dutchmen with his physical play. Freshman goalie Pat Forrest made several spectacular saves to keep Middlebury off the scoreboard. However, mid way thro11gh the sec- ond quarter, Middlebury broke through with several quick goals. Middlebury maintainedtJossession ofthe ball through much ofthe first half, but Union was able to stay in the game with excellent <lefense. Midway thwugh tlte second half, Nick Balascio found the llack of the net to put the Dutchmen on the board. The Union men got a spark from their first tally and c<>ntinued to deliver more punishinghits. While Union came up on the l.osing end, the Dutchmen played with a signifi- cant amount of tenacit):' _ With two tough games coming up this week- end against RPI and Ski(Jmore, the Union Men's Lacrosse team needs to maintain its diligent work ethic and tough all ar<>und play. ,, ··• · ..

. Spor.ts (ltnmnritiensis • April 8, 1999 • Pag~ 20 Softball Edges Hartwick Twice: S-4, 3-2 by Brian 'Terlinsl\y Sports Editor The U11ion softhall team, like many oth~r Union spring teams, kicked off its 1999 season, withtheir annual spring break trip too. But this Union squad would not have characterized this trip,as a relaxing advent11re away from :the hard work of <:ollege life, since much of their tinJe was spent on the field, rather then around the :pool or on the beach. Unio11 tr.aveled to Ft. Myers, Florida and played a tough ten game schedule that incl.uded many experie~tced Division I H ,colleges. Forthem()stpart, Unioncarnehack from their spring break trip pretty well prevped for the regular sea- son and tiley were quite satisfied with their performance in the st:m- sh ine state. Union finished with an overall 7-3 rec(Hd, defeating tearns like Upper )()Wa (8-5), Plymouth State (7-2), MIT ( 10-2), Bowdoin (3-0), Endicott (2-1) Colby (4-3) and Fredonia State (3-2). Union's toughest game was against Lawrencoe Cellege, who defeated Union by the score of 7-1. How- ever, the o()ther two loses were very close garnes, as Southern Maine and CoJ!><y both won, 1-0 and 3-2, respectively. Wonen's Lax Contin11etl From Page-3 said Bevelander. She-didjustthat : and Union looked ahead to sec- ond rankecl Middlebury. On yet .another windy afternoon, the eighteenth ranked Dutchw()men opened the home season wiill a 16-10 loss to Middle- bury. '\l couldn't have asked for more. lt was a very respectable game,\ said Bevelander. Stephanie Maycheck, Ryall, Harris, and Merriam each had two goals, while Moss and Okado each scored a goal. At the half it was 11-4 for Middlebluy. Union scored three goals in the last three minutes, but it was n()'t enough. \We knew it would be a tough game, and the loss is disa.ppointing. Hopefully we will getto see them again in the postseaso11,\ said Moss. The Dutchwomen faced off against Skidmore tomorrow at 4:0() and ri- val Rensselaer on Saturday at 2:00. They end the week against Oneonta on Tuesday at 4:00. All home games are played at Bailey Field. At The PBint Abby Harris was named UCAA ''Player of the Week\ after scoring nine goals, including the game winner against Colby. Sarah Moss and Sa man til a Ryall were named to the UCAA \Honor Roll.\' Moss scored eight goals, includ- ing tw() overtime goals, . while Ryall had eight goals aad three assists. The spring trip also gave the coachingstaff of Peter Brown and Brian Speck an .in-depth look at the ability of theirteam this season. Union will rely on mainly three young pitchers this season. Fresh- man Sarah Johnston won three games in Florida and had a total of 13 strikeouts for Union. Also, sophomores ApJYle Pickering, who had 19 strikeouts and Meg team, since many ofthe players are On Tuesday, Uhion began its Crowley, whohad eight strikeouts freshman. regular season play at home~ as had successful trips, and both will Other players to lead the team they t-ook on Hartwick College ih a be strong assets to the team this during the trip Horida were Fresh- double header. Apryle P,ickering season. man Audrey Brennan, who batted .started the gam eat pitcher and had Butthecoaches wilJ also rely on an average of . 308 , had eight hits t'hl'ee quality first innings. AI· the three returning experienced and six runs. Also junior Sarah though both teams seemed evenly captains, Deb Cederbaum, Cassie Cardullo also batted well, with a matclled, Hartwick would reach the Lawton, and Tara McManus to _ 3 () 0 average. broken :lighted scoreboard first in mold in the younger players on the thefo:urthinning, going ahead2•0. Cory Silken/TC However, the Dutchwdmen never gave up and rallied in the last few inni11gs. Union would connect on several hits and rally to sc0ore five unanswered runs, thus goirtg onto victory by the score .of 5-4. The second game wasaga:in very close and was all tied up at .~() a piece going into the final inning. Union put on the defense and made three quick outs and was ready to finish Hartwick off, get out of the stormy weather, and for- get al>out any chance of ex.tra in- nings. With base runners on at sec- ond and third, seniorTaryn SCll11ol cameupto bat and singled to,score the wining run. Union we11t <Jnto win by the score of 3-2. '\Both garnes were very close all seven innings. Weplayed well and weare happy starting the season offwin\\ ning both games of the dou.ble- header,'' Sarno! said. Senior Taryn Samol slides into the plate to score for Union. Union's next game will beat Wil- liamst()day, which is also a d()llble- header. . , ',. $. . . . 1'fJ' Seven independent sessions ranging from four to six . '. • • < •. '\'I ' • i ~

its ~ as ina had AI& the on nto ery oa ng. get in- to in- le- . Sports <n:nncnrmensis • April 8, 1999 • Page 21 Men's Tennis Receives a Shocker From Skidmore by MarkShemel Contributing Writei During Spring Break, the Ulljon Collegil Men's Tennis Tearn llt- tended tlie Ph()enix Tennis Ch~J,. lenge in Phoenix, Arizona. Despi:te last year's weak season, the 1~am was unfazed and played com.peti- tively. Unlike many of the <Jt1ler colleges and universities iltterrd· ing, Union was the only teatn. 11ot to ha'Ve IJegun their season, le2'w'- ing them. at a disadvantage ex]Jed- ence w is:e. The team also pl2yed without two of their top pla):ers, Sudhe-et Potluri and J<>S h Winograd. Without these twoplay- ers, Un]()n was fighting enorllloas odds. With a shaky start, Union Sllf- fered afilearly week loss to Lin ftelod College. This loss, however, <Jnly heightelled the team's spirits. Hav- ing reg1fouped, Union defeat~d a very skilled University ofChica.,gc team. At second singles, fres.hrn:<~m Ge()rge Verghese defeated hiS:'C).p- ponent cS-3, 6-4; at fourth single!;, soph01more John D'Entremontcle- feated his opponent ~-1, 6-2; atftftb singles, freshman Mark Sheme] defeateclhis opponent6-4, 6-3; md at sixth singles, freshman John Betjemrum defeated his opponent 6-3,6-4. . The tealll also entered their play- ers in tlle individual singles and doubles tot~rnament where they once agai:n proved their strength. In the siiJgles ·event, freshman George Verghese fmished in fourth place. Inaddition, freshman Adam Feldman vvas also a quarter-final- ist at tllis event, In the doubles event, freshman Mark Shemel and sophomor~ Matt Elia finished in fourth place as well. At the Phoenix Tennis Chal- lenge, the Men's Tennis Team played with passion and inspira- tion despite their handicaps and the odds against them. They over- came the odds and earned the re- spect of tlieir opponents. They proved that they could push any team agai11st the ropes and with this success under their belts, the team can attack this year's season with <:on fidence. One cannot help but notice the large nurnller of freshmen on the team. Six out of the eleven team members are freshmen. Of these six, four have achieved starting po- sitions. New to college tennis, these ffeshrnen face a kind of com- petition thatis foreign to them. But Junior's Gabe Agnello and J(JS~ Winograd as wel'l as Seni·or Sudheer Potluri are k(leping them in high spirits and ar;e helping to guide them into their upcami11g season. Wh.en asked about the upcom- ing season, freshman George V erghese said, \I am ~onfident in myselfand my team and know tbat we wiH have a good season.\ His confidence is shared tly the other freshman and they prove it h:y never giving up. This past Monday, the team lost their first mate h against Skidmore College, undoubtedly, one of the best two tearns in the conference. Despite tfue loss,. assistant coach Greg Roman felt that with a little fine turing, team could definitely havea.chance in an upcoming match against Skidmore. The next scheduled home match :is a scrimmage w 1th Albany State. An early season win against this team wouldcertainly prove to be helpful toa.team that wants a winning seasm this year. Come ()Ut and support The Union College men's tennis.tec:nn as th.ey embark: on. an exciti~g season with their fresh line up of new players and talent. l I • : In summer 19!J9, New School University WiU \ offer intensive fcur~w!!ek courses in art a11d technolclgy. Courses can be taken on .a non-credit basis 110r1 in most cases ... for graduate l)r undergraduate credit tt1e~t can be applied 1o a New School University degree qr transfer credit. SUBJECT AREAS INClUilf ELEcrRONIC COMMERCEIW!:B • • DEVELOPMENT CURRICUlUM POETRY AND THE Ft.mJ!t£ • DIGITAL IMAGING FOR ARTISlS • PUmNG YOUR WORK ON THE WIEB • \=\' PERFORMANCE ~RTS WORKSHCI'S• MANAGING NON PROFITS: • ARTS ORGANIZATIONS IN N'Y( DESIGNING THE WEB • PLAYWRmNG• Limited hotJsift!l available-; call t«<ay to reserve your.placel 9 New School University Sloan MiHer/TC Freshman John lJeljemann practices his serve before the Skidmore match on Monday. Concordy Meeting Tonight at 6PM in Room 303 of CC

Sports C!I~mnrhien~is • April 8, 1999 • Page 22 Union Crew Avenges 1998 Losses with Clean Sweep ofRPI by Jolin Carbone Staff Writer The 1998 rowing season saw in- credible success for the men's and women's crew teams, with the men bringing home both the President's Cup (vs. Hobart) and the Gilman Cup (vs. Hamilton)and the women qualifying for Nati0nals. Amidst the positive triumphs of last sea- son, however, sit bitter losses to Rensselaer. The races were close, but RPI always managed to squeeze out a little more in the last 500 meter') of the 2000 ltleter races. Determined t() exorcise the ghosts of the past, Union Crew traveled to the Hudson River this past Saturday to do battle against their Capital District rivaL The rowing conditions vvere less than ideal, with a strong head-wind creating ominous waves on the race course. Head Coach Tom White may have best described the conditions when he dubbed them \squirrelly'~ The day's events began at 9:30 with the Varsity Men's 8+. Coach White encouraged his crews to make a strong push in the first 500 meters of the race~ as the water was \calmest\ there. Powered by se- niors Michael Sherwood, John Carbone and Joh11 Poori juniors Steve Eichfeld and Robert Hoppenfeld; sophomore Jamie Slocum; and freshmen Jeff Hoffman and Remi Drozd, Union made a powerful charge at the start, getting up by three-quarters of a boat length within the first 500 meters of the race. With waves ·crashing over the gunnels, senior coxswain Richard Simmons steered an impressive course, putting his crew onto the smoothest water to be found. The men continued to press their lead, separating the two boats by a length of open water at the fin- ish. Union's Varsity Women kept the new-found momentum going by also opening an early lead on their opponents. Coxed by junior Cori Kautz, se- niors Susanna Ryan, Jamie Bunchuk and Sarah Ahart;juniors Melissa Sullivan and Sue Zelnick; and sophomores Clare Canal, Braelin Pantel and Mary Felton, Union movedtheirboat fur- ther and further ahead of RPI, open- ing a sizable gap of two boat 'lengths prior to the conclusion of the race. Perhaps the most impressive display of will and determination came with the J.V. Men's race. With three varsity rowers in their boat, the RPI J.V. team pulled ahead at the start, separating the boats by open water prior to the I 000 meter mark. Union coxswain Will Genrich wouldn't let his boat be defeated, inspiring juniors Adam Mit-.:pby, Jon Albert, Corey Greemh<luse, Andy Martinson ami DavidlPdlizzi, as well as freshmen Rob Pi11ney, Ben Foster and George F<osttuko to make a strong offe-nsive move. Their boat speed increased all d., by the 1500metermark,itwa~Union that led the race. Th-ey woll;ldn 't be denied their victC!Jry, finishing the race a full boat length ahead of RPL Coach White, obviously pleased by the win, ha.d til is t<l say of the race, \{Our J. V. Men~ did the impossible. They came from he- hind in lane 2 and were able topull . it out.\ It was new up to the J. V. \.'\!omen . to secure the day's dom·itmnce .. Following the earlier strate~)lof the varsity boats, the J. V. womer~ came .............. ~ ,. '\ out of the start with a strongpush . ......_~------------~­ Braelin Patel The crew team prepares for this race aginst RP! last Experienced coxswain S.haron Pozzner led her boat ahead, cltal- lenging them to continue the at- tack. Juniors Tara Noye-s, Jen Morrison and Naemah Ta11n~ illong with freshmen Meglmn Driscoll, Arnie Csiszer, Anne lllan1rnan, Katie Mack and Char!.ott~ Beales, met the challenge, defeatirng the RPJ boat quite handily. The day was an dbvi()US suc- cess with four wins, but Junior Tara Noyes chose to comment on the subtleties associat(!d with su<:h a fine display of athleti(!ism, '\'J t' s a Saturday. great way to start the season. This is the first 2000 meter .race for the new members of-the team and the)' wwed it with poise, con- fidence and obvious strength. They m~intained their focus, over- came tile adverse weather condi- tions amf were rewarded accord- ingly.\ Truer words could not have been spoken; this is a great start of the '99 seasan, which continues this Saturday, April I0 1 h,. at home against perennial powerhouse Hobart & William Smith. Come cheer on the men, as they defend the Men's President's Cup, and the women as they vie for the coveted Women's President's Cup. For directions to the Union boat- house email (arbonej@union.edu. Union_Track & Field Has Strong Sh~wing in Season Opener by Peter Flynn Contributing Writer This past weekend, men's and women's track traveled toCiinton, NY to compete against Hamilton and Mohawk Valley Community College. There were a number of solid performances despite Union's relatively young squad. The men scored a respectable 70 points to Hamilton's I 03 while the women also did well, losing I 04- 29. The day started on a somewhat hectic note with the men's 4x 1OOm relay. Due to the cancellation of the women's 5000m, all events were pushed forward 25 minutes, giving our sprinters little time to prepare for the event. Bryan Roy made a guest appearance to lead off the relay in place of Atsu Kaneko. All things conside:t:ed, the relay went rather well with Jesse Prisco making up a Jot of ground in the anchor leg, though finishing 0.01 seconds behind Hamilton. Kaneko made up for his missed relay, h.owever, by winning both the lOOm and 200m events in 11.80 and23.75 respectively, (with team- The Union track team will work hard this season rotry_and heat out arch-rival RP/. mate Tony Fykesnotfarbehind). Ackerman 16.66m High Jump F;~shman soccer and basketball Cieslowski l.45ni lSOOm 3. Amy star Katie Smith also prove~: her.. Slabich5:20.95 5. Marie\Thong\ self a worthy competitor on tlle Maurer 5 :48.39 400m 1. Katie track by. winning the 400m by 19 Smitl163.33 800m 2. Amy Slabich seconds in a time of6J.33. 2:30.57 ().Kamal Tyson 2:45.94 7. Workhorse Amy Slabich h~d a Laura Kelmanovich 3:23.81 8. Car- full day. She placed third .in tile rie Welc:h 3:26.44 200m 6. Andrea 1500m in 5:20.95, second jn the La Pietra 34.23 3000m 3. Amy 800m in 2:30.57, third inthe J.OU01n Slabich 11 :49.87 5. GleMaMalcGirn in 11:49.87 and broughtit home 12:21.20-6, Marie Maurer 12:36.85 with a solid leg in the4x400111 relay .. · 4x400m{Tyson, Maurer, Slabich, The men fie.lded two4x4()0mre- · . Malcolm)4:47 22 layteamsforthefirsttimeinmore Men's: Shot Put 2. Shawn than 4 years. Jon Nieman e:arneda Shopmyer 1 I .57m Discus 3. Bryan pat on the bad~ from his tearnrn~tes Roy 32.52m Javelin I. Roy 53.26m when he ran the fastest 400rnsplit 4. Shopmyer35.08m5.JessePrisco on either team. (Watch! out 33.00m6. Kris Darlington21.80rn Strohsahl!) Pole Va11lt Stefan Bagnato Long In the field events., Camlyn Jump 2. Roy 6.04m 3. Darlington Cieslowski won both the dliscus 5.87m 5. Prisco 5. 75m 6. Brendan withatossof33.88m, a11dtllelligh Camey5.07m TripleJump I. Roy jump clearing 1.45rn. Cieslowski 12.90m 2. Darlington 12.l2m 4. has a chance of qualifying for n~- Brenda11 Carney High Jump tionals in the discus ifshecartreach l.Darlin~ton 1.83m 4xl00m 2. 40m. She is looking very C()mpeti- (Roy, Fykes, Strohsahl, Prisco) tive for this early in the season. 45.81 15110m 3. PeterFiynn4:13.76 The day ended when utility man, 5. JeffMor:se4:36.7 6. Matt Conley Bryan Roy, heaved the javelin 174 4:39.65110mHurdles 2. Roy 16.85 feet, beating out the com!)etition 400m 4. Dave Martin 57.38l00m by 45 feet. This throw was: ll per· l. Atsu ICaneko I1.80 2.Tony sonal record by 9 feet. Roy .also Fykes II ,gg 5 .Jerald Whittington won the triple jump and competed 12.73 6.Asad Choudhry 13.87 in the discus, long jump; I J:()rn 800m .!.Flynn 2:0135 ?.Steve hurdles and 4x:l00m relay. Go()d Schuler 2:06.99 8.Jon Nieman job, Psycho. 2:09.51 I LJohn Houghton 2: 10.25 Kudos to rookie Kris Darl illgt()n 13 ~corey Mathis 2:21.17 400m who won the high jump by c.-lear- Hurdles 2. Bagnato 64.92 200m ing 6ft. Congratulations to all ()f I.Kaneko 23.75 2.Fykes 23.90 the new track athletes: Sherri 5.Whittington 26.15 6.Choudhry Ackerman, Kris Darli11g.ton, 28.92 50100m I.Fiynn 16:15.76 Brendan Carney, Matt Conley, 4.Conl.ey 18:39.32 5.Houghton Katie Smith, Laura KelmancOW'ida, 19:08.28 4x400 2. (Schuler, Andrea La .Pietra and 1~.s:ad Whittington, Fykes, Nieman) Choudhry. 3:41.55 4.(Morse, Conley, Flynn, Here are all the results: Houghton) 3:48.14 Women's: Discus L Cano[ yn Track .Notes: Next week the Ci.eslowski 33.88m 3. Sh!crri team will h~vesometough competitioh at the Williams Invitational. If you are interested in joining the team and have had a physical, contact Coach Nick Conway at 347-0356. ~ $J1tljl!ta;' . QBeSiiilil ··········~~j~~~~·F Week! Do you· think Mcguire and Sosa will continue their homerun race into the 1999 season? E-mail your thoughts to ronoordy@vltunion..edu

me bey the I_ .. (3 .. 9/3·-l.--UCAA) ·. AP·-.·-RII· . · · . - . : .J· . 2 . CLARKSON (2) _ Won 8-<i/Won 7- 3 ST. LA-CEJ2) .. - Lost4-~on7-5 _.- 7. ·---.atSkidtnore;' .; ' '3RM _ 10 - -~-J:UfC2)_:: :· · _ JP~t . - · 11- . at Rochester:J~) · lPM -- , . , . 13 ALB4NY - -~ . :4PM 1.5 aidheonta · . . · JPM ,i · - - IT_ ::&J!r<Z): .:~ .. - - - · · · :if,N!_:: - ~ · . ~~---- ---··-··. .·.-·.,,t~~ APRIL 6 HARTWICK (2) Won 5-4/Won 3-2 8 at Wi!Biams (2} 3:30PM lO HAMILTON (2) lPM ·<' -13 MIDDLOOURY (2) 3PM 1'5 AlBAN¥(2) 3PM 17 at Utica(2) lPM 20 atRPf(2) 3PM 22 NEW PALTZ (2) 3PM 24 _.at Skidmore (2) lPM 21 f?NIIDNTA(2) 3PM '2~ Rp-SSELL SAGE(2) 3PM ~y_., - ·.· l . - ROCHESTER-(2)- lPM Men's Lax Crew APRIL ··• .. ,r·::,APR!L .. \ ·' 2 -. ai Vasser ' 6 ' MIDDLEBURY 9 atRPl lO · · atSlkidmore 14. 'ALBANY '16. -- CLM0030N - 17 ST. LAWRENCE 2o att.Jtica '··.,. 22 GENESEO MAY 1 HAMILTON 4 WILLIAMS 3 atRPI Won all four races 10 18 24 .J\1t\Y PRES~S CUP RAffi with 1-bbart arrl V\illiamS.:rrith atSkidnnre GlimtnPlate & Olp Race at f.fanilton 1 NYS Chnpiombip in Rotre, NY 8 Wotreris l\CM Cl:mlJ>iooobip 12PM ·9AM l2PM Lost 10-3 Won2~2 Lost9-5 4PM 1:30PM 4PM 4PM lPM 4PM 4PM 2PM 4PM. APRIL (0-1) 5 SKIDMORE Lost 7-0 9 at Clarkson_ 3PM 10 at St. Lawrence lPM 13 at Utica 4PM 17 UCAA Championships 9AM 18 at Hohart 9AM 20 at Oneonta 3PM 22 atRPI 3PM 24 VASSER lPM 28 at Hamilton JPM .Track (Men 0-1/Women 0-1) APRIL 3 at Harrilton 10 at Williams 16 lCAA :tvh:tat RPI 17 OCMJ.\.ht·at RPI 24 at RPI Invitatiornl MAY I -State .f\.ht at Roch;ster (M) LQst 103-70 (W) 104-29 12PM 4PM lOAiv.l IPM



'•! •), ' '· !~ :, . ' -' Sports Starts on Page 18 1.- • <I ..... ·.•·. . ~ ' ,''' ' ' \':'I 'I Cory .. S ilf{eh/T():. j

. c ' -< ~~If you tell-the truth, you don't have to remember anything.\ _-Mark Volun~cCXXILNumberXVIII The Studeat NeH'spaper of Union College Since 1877 AprillS. 1999 ~--~-·- ~f\\''!'~,· News: Free Pinball Machine at the Rathskeller PageS Opnio-ns: Alumni Comments About Seward Place Page 10 Union Talks to Community About Its Future · b· · J . · · . - . w_•th the mt~nt1ons of filhng them [because] 1t has_ S() much poten- arsh1ps to the young adults per- y essacaZuehlke .h.full. h · f. 'I\ H · fi c1~._ bl' h 1 1· · · h ·, 1 ,.., · Ed' w1t ·. · ·-time omeown_ ers mane - tm . · e m orme we pu IC t at manent y tvmg m t · e new project 1Yews ltor 4:' · 1 I b I I 'th h . . . Th t d t . d 10rt to s ow y, · ut comp ete y even WI out muc · money m tts area. ese s u ens are reqUire- ''The Union-Schenectady Initia· revitilize the community. At the budget, the city wi-ll do its best to to go through the complete Admis- · ; tive is a project dedicate4 to ban renewal, not urban moval.\ President Roger Hull announced Tuesday at a · conference held in one of the renovated apartments on Seward Place. \We are trying to revitalize a historic neighborhood ... while being as sensitive as possible in the pro- . · cess ofrelocat-ing families.\ . This past Tuesday, April 13 · · Union hosted a press conference to update the community ·the progress of the project -: ... , , · planned five and a half months ago. On October 27, 1998, a press release introduced to the pu the idea of the Union- Schenectady Initiative(USl). At...._..,......:.....J.:.o::> process, and will be • ........ ,. ... r,.,.. scholarship m(}ney upon If these teenagers are not able to meet the high stan- of Union College on the first round, they have the oppor- tunity to attend Schenectady unty Community College (SCCC) and reapply as transfer students. If accepted, they will till be offered sch<Jlarship money. At the conference, SCCC · President Gabriel BasH praised Union for its \financial and insti- tutional commitment.\ He con- tinued, \This project not only oer1ei1ts the residents oftbe com- munity and the community in general, but the students as ~.;;,;.,...;....;..;;.;;.-:.~=---------___.well.\ Courtesy &f Public Relations Finally, the Vice President of Architecfllral Designs Illustrate the F1.1ture of Seward Place. Trustco Bank, William Terry, . . .. . thattime, the school had recently -r-\\'\-'----'-----~---'-'-~'--\--\\-r· · .. ~purchased a smaH number of Features: houses on Sewar<J Place that------------------------- they began renovating for full.!re press conference, Pr:esideQ.t Hull fund work done on Seward Place, student housing. Union also commented, \By purchasing the including paveme11t of the side- Fun and Games Debut Page 17 Sports: Ultimate Freesbie Team at Union Comes Alive! Page 22 -Inside Campus News - 3 Opinions- 8 A &E-10 World News -12 Technology-14 Features-16 Sports -18 Our E-mail concordy@· vu. union. etlu askedmany local business, as well h0uses, we hope to start a trend of walks. as the CityofSchenectady~ to do- house-buying that will have a sig- nate money towards tlte project. nificant effect on the whole area.\ Since that release, tl!e ce>llege has acquired a total of 35 houses, spanning the bulk of the pro jed area. This area encompasses the whole neighborhood bordered by Union Street, Erie Boulevard, Nott Street and Seward Place. The col- lege began buying these houses The main object of the press con- ference was to recognize -~he efforts made by others helping \\ ith the project. The first individual to speak was the Mayor of S<:hencctady, AI Jurczynski, \[The USI] is the most . exciting project in the last 50 years ln the announcement to the com- munity last October, Hull stated that he \feels everyone has a re- sponsibility to contribute to the c~mmlui1iti~:s in whi~h they live anJ operate.\ lk helie\es that Lin ion College is accomplishing this goal by providing its \firacst asset-a first rate education.\ Hence, Union is offering Schol- spoke. He outlined the discounts available to families interested in purchasing the properties in the project area. Some of the benefits include a 50% discount on Bank fees and a grant of 5% of the pur- chase price to be used at the owner's discretion. Acco.rding to Tcrr:, \Trustco Rank is no11.: ;1 sig· ni fie ant and active partner0fl Tn ion College.\ l\t this point, Hull announced Continued on page 3 Sigma Delta Tau Hazing Appeal Denied Stephanie Slob .. tkin Editor-in-Chief Emerita As ofTuesday, Aprill3 the sis- ters of Sigma Delta Tau were in- formed that the appeal they had made to President HuH and the administration was completely denied. SDT appealed for every- thing their punishment had said · excluding the eight ha\i':ing, work· shops, and received no sympathy in regards to the provisions de· cided in the first place. In a meeting held on Friday, Aptil9, six executive board.mem- . bers from SDT met with Dean Alford and President Hu II to dis- cuss the appeal and to find out specific reasons fot what SDT be- lieved to be \severe penalties.\ · After the meet-ing the group was glad to have been able to voice their opinions but felt that their ·. thoughts Were not taken into con- sideration because they thought . the decision was already made. notiori- that Union's faculty is anti- ings. Greek, they wanted to use SDT to The women of SOT also cannot set an example that they will not pledge havea pledge period for the stand for hazing on this campus. 29 young women \-Vho were cho- She afso said, \I i.lll· · sen after January's ders.iand the. s:ate- \In .·. rd r t Rush and their only merttfhe admmistra- 0 e 0 optie>ns are to abide tion is trying to 1 ~'unction as a by the provisions make, but to do itto ~ 1 made by the admin- our house to such a house and make istra tion and the great.extent is harsh • conduct committee They don't know Q p p T 0 p r l Q f e and follow all rules. what they've done d h h·· \In order to func- tothc\vomcninthis.amen st roug tion<.~sahouseaml house.\_.. phi/anthrop·ymake apprupriak The logistics of · amends through the punishments for and hazing philanthropy and Sigma Delta Tau are hazing workshops, as foUows: S.DT WOrkShOpS, HJe we need sorncthi~g cannot function as a lh I f1t th d h • .... ey C US WI house until the nee somet tng nothing,'' said Spring of 2000. th . l ,lit. Gabriel. They have lost the • • • ey eJ' US The would-be privilege of residing with nothing. , pledges ~an nut go in Potter House and through a regular cann()t reapply for pledge period and group housing until -Beth Gabriel· according to SOT's next April. The pledge master, women are no those 29 girls need women cannot learn and grow the way the other sisters, wllo have pledged, have done in the past,\ the pledge master said. For the most part, the sisters of SDT are most angered by the fact that Presiden• i lull and the admin- istration were never going to con- sider the appeal for the request for their traditional housing in Potter. \I umkrstand we should be pun· ishcJ, but they arc gi,ing us double punishment.\ said Emil) Ruben~, Junior, \IH:~:aust.: thcy took away our Jwuse Jrld th(.'n gave it to another sorority at the same time.\ Another Junior said, \the sad part is that the sorority who will gain our Jwusing, spa~:c was charged ami convicted with more dangerous actions, \\.:lri~h ac- cording to the student handbook caused 'mental or physical discom- fort, ernbarras~ment, hara~~rnl'nt .. which recklessly endangers their physical or mental health' We JiJ so little harm in comparison.\ After applying for housing space for the fall or 199<), thl' ~is­ tcrs of Delta Delta Delta were in· fonnt:d on Tuesday, Apri I D that · Beth Gabriel, Junior SDT member and attendant ofFriday's meeting, believes that because of the tim- ing of the hazing incident and the .~--------------------~ ~ . longer able to socia11y participate in that time and those experiences to Greek-relatedevents,exceptforhaz- find their place witb the other sis- ing awareness programs and other tcrs ofSDT. \Without that <.ksig- philanthropic or beneficial gather- natcd pledge period the young Co111i11ued 011 page .5

\If you tell the truth, you don't have to remember anything.\ -Mark Twain VolumeCXXII.NuniberXVIII The Student Newspaper of(Jnion·Coll.ege Since IS77· . ·. ·. ·_ ·.· · .· ·::' · .·· .... ·Ap~·ills>.f~~~'.: ' • I • ' • • • ' ' \ ' T ' ~ o ' - • , o : , •' -; t• ' , 0 .. f This Week News: Free Pinball Ma·chine at the RathskeHer Page 5 Opni.ons: Alumni Comments About Seward Place Page 10 Features: Fun and Games Debut Page 17 Sports: Ultimate Freesbie Team at Union Comes Alive! Page 22 Inside Campus News- 3 Opinions- 8 A &E-10 World News -12 Technology-14 Features-16 Sports -18 Our E-mail concordy@ vu.union.edu ~----------------------~ \The Union-Schenectady Initia- tive is a project dedicated to ur- ban renewal, not urban re- moval.\ President Roger Hull announced Tuesday at a press conference held in one of 1he renovated apartments oR Seward Place. \We are trying to revitalize a historic neighborhood ... while being as sensitive as possible in the pro- cess ofrelocat ing families.\ This past Twesday, April 13, Union hosted a press conference to update the community ab<Jut the progress of the project. planned five and a half months ago. On October 27, 1998, a press release introduced to the public the idea of the Union- Schenectady Initiative (US!). At L---~ that time, the school had recently purchased a small number of C()urtesy of Public Relations Architectural Designs Illustrate the Future o[Seward Place. houses <Jn Seward Place that --------------------------- they began renovating for future student housing. Union also asked many local business, as well as the City ofSchenectady, to do- nate money towards the project. Since that release, the college has acquired a total of35 houses, spanning the bulk of the project area. This area encompasses the whole neighborhood bordered by Union Street, Erie Boulevard, Nott Street and Seward Place. The col- lege began buying these houses press conference, President Hull commented, \By purchasing the houses, we hope to start a trend of house-buying that will have a sig- nificant effect on the whole area.\ The main object of the press con- ference was to recognize the efforts made by others heiping with the project. The first individual to speak was the Mayor of Schenectady, AI Jurczynski, \[The US!] is the most exciting project in the last 50 years fund work done on Seward Place, including pavement of the side- walks. In the announcement to the com- munity last October, Hull stated that he \feels everyone has a re- sponsibility to contribute to the comrnunitie!> in \1 hich they live ;.mJ operate.\ He believes that Union College is accomplishing this goal by providing its \finest asset-a first rate education.\ Hence, Union is offering Schol- Continued on page 3 Sigma Delta Tau Hazing Appeal Denied Stephanie Slobotkin Editor-in-Chief Emerita As ofTuesday, April 13 the sis- ters of Sigma Delta Tau were in- formed that the appeal they had made to President Hull and the administration was completely denied. SOT appealed for every- thing their punishment had said excluding the eight hazing w<Jrk- shops, and received no sympathy in regards to the provisions de- cided in the first place. In a meeting held on Friday, April 9, six. executive board mem- bers from SDT met with Dean Alford and President Hull to dis- cuss the appeal and to find out specific reasons for what SOT be- lieved to be \severe penalties.\ After the meeting the group was glad to have been able to vcice their opinions but felt that their thoughts were not taken into con- sideration because they thought the decision was already made. Beth Gabriel, Junior SOT member and attendantofFriday's meeting, believes that because of the tim- ing of the ]lazing incident and the notion that Union's faculty is anti- ings. Greek, they wanted to use SOT to The women of SOT also cannot set an example that they will not pledge have a pledge period for the stand for hazing on this campus. 29 young women who were cho- She also said, \I un- sen after Januar) 's derstand the_ s_tate- \In r de r t 0 Rush and their only ment the admmistra- 0 options are to abide tion is trying to I 'unction as a by the provisions make, but to do it to I) 1 made by the admin- our house to such a house and make istration and the great extent is harsh. • conduct committee They don't know Q p p f 0 p r late and follow all rules. what they've done d h h \In order to func- tothe women in this amen s t roug tion as a homt! and house.\ . . phi Ian t h ropy make appropriate The logistics of amends through t~epunishmentsfor and hazingphilanthropy and S1gma Delta Tau are hazing workshops, as follows: SDT WOrkshOpS We we need something I'; • ' cannot 1tmct10n as a • . .. they left us with house until the need somethtng nothing,\ said Spring of 2000. Gabriel. They have lost the • • • they left US The would-be privilege of residing •th th • \ pledges cannot go in Potter House and Wl no tng. through a regular cannot reapply for pledge period and group housing until -Beth Gab riel according to s DT's next April. The pledge master, women are no those 29 girls need longer able to socially participate in that time and those experiences to Greek-related events, except forhaz- find their place with the other sis- ing awareness programs and other ters ofSDT. \Without that desig- philanthropic or beneficial gather- nated pledge peri<Jd the young women cannot leam and grow the way the other sisters, who have pledged, have done in the past,\ the pledge master said. For the most part, the sisters of S DT are most angered by the fact that Presidt:IIL i lull and the adm in- istration were never going to con- sider the appeal for the request for their traditional housing in Potter. \I understand we should be pun- ished, but they are giving us double punishment,\ said Emil) Rubens, Junior, \be~.:aust: the) tooJ... away our house aml then gave it to another sororit) at the same time.\ Another Junior said, \the sad part is that the sororit) who will gain our housing space was charged and convicted \ith more dangerous actions, \\ h ich ac- cording to tl~e student handbook caused 'mental or physical discom- fort, embarrassment. hara!lsmcnt . .. which recklessly endangers their physical or mental health.' We JiJ so little harm in comparison.\ After applying for housing space for the fall or 1999, the sis- ters of Delta Delta Delta wen: in- fomwd on TuesJa), :\pril D tlldt (.\tmtilmetl 011 page 5

Page 2 • April 15, 199~ • <llun.corbi.ensis Security Incident Report Sunday Ap.ril 4, 1999 Criminal Mischief Lost Child Monday April 5,1999 Larceny from Residence Life Safety Violations Criminal Mischief Life Safety Violation Tuesday April. 6, 1999 Criminal Mischief Wednesday April 7, 1999 Life Safety Violation Trespass Substance Abuse•Drugs Criminal Mischief Harassment Trespass Thursday April 8, 19<)9 Life Safety Violation Substance Abuse- Alcohol Unauthorized Social Event Unauthorized entry Unauthorized entry Friday April 9,1999 Larceny from building Trespass Trespass I Harassment Life Safety Violation Harassment Criminal Mischief Life Safety Violation Saturday April 1(), 11)99 Disorderly Conduct Criminal Mischief, Injury, Substance Abuse- Alcohol, \ Life Safety Violation Disorderly Conduct Life Safety Violation Disorderly Conduct, Substance Abuse - Alcohol Criminal Mischief Criminal Mischief Criminal Mischief, Life Safety Violation Criminal Mischief Life Safety Violation Harassment Sunday April II, 199? Disorderly Conduct, Substance Abuse - Alcohol; Illness, Safety Hazard Disorderly Conduct, Substance Abuse- Alcohol Criminal Mischief Ricl'ltllond Hall, two students threw urn against bicycle rack, urn broken and bicycle damaged. Conduct charges filed. 6:50A.M. North College, Mother located. 6:40PM President's House, West Side Porch, Larceny of American Flag and pole. Rep<Jrted ll:45AM Richmond Hall, propped doors, 5:31PM & 7:31PM fiox Hmse, RA ot'fice, lock destroyed: Rich~nond Hall, .propped doors, ?:49AM ()ld Chapel, Urn broken near entrance, no leads or suspects. Ricilmond Hall, Propped Door, 2:35PM Arrest, Trespass, stuntboarding. West College, 2\d fl()or hallway, source not identified.4:23PM Memorial Fieldhouse, West entrance door - Door bent at angle 9\ fr'<lrn hinges. No leads or suspects. Richmond road, West lot, female student chased by two mat·es subjects. Area cl'leCked, subjects gone on arrival. Ja.dcson Gardens, panhandlers under influence of drugs I alcohol,. warned off campus. NQrth CoHege, 4u' floor residents, plastic bags wrapped around smok:e detector in lounge. I 2:20AM Psi· Upsilon Fraternity, large group of students consuming beerout side South entrance door .. Several hundred students found on first floor and basement consuming beer. Conduct charges filed Science & Engineering Sll I, office entered and computer tampered wit11. [)avi('(son Hall, room entered, nothing taken, no sign of forced entry. R.earner Center rm 404A Big Brothers & Big Sisters office N<> forced entry. $1750.00 theater and meal coupons for children. Phi 'Delta Theta, two unknown males loitering outside house, I :OOAM Su!>.ject stuntboarding at Memorial Chapel, attempted to assault officer when stoppced. PFOf1ped door, 6:20 PM, 8:05 PM, and 8:48 PM Off Campus incident, Student struck on head with pipe after altercation with oft campus youths. Sigma Chi, Northwest side common room, window broken Potter house, stack of newspapers set on fire, extinguished by patrol. A<:ttilles rink east side parking area, Blue light emergency phor1e activation by stu<lents, conduct charges pending. 2:50 AM Rarm<>nd House, Sigma Chi, student lacerated hand while punciling out window; Subjec::t treated and released. Conduct charges filed' against studerrt and house violation of private events policyl:25AM Acllilles rink, east side parking area, Blue light emergency phoJJe activation, 1:50AM Richmond Hall, door propped, 2:31 AM and 3: 15 AM North courtyard patio, Fox North, South Terrace lane, Beer ll1>ttles thrown into courtyard from the North side of Fox, Suspe:<:t ran toward Fox after throwing the b<lttles. Psi U, South Lane, room doors and doorknobs struck with concrete construc- tion block. Ream~r center, South side window to convenience store broken. Phi [)ella Theta, 2\d tloor hall, Fire pull station protective cover pulled off wall, alarm activated. Edwuds house, north basement bar room entrance door, window broken.' H icl<ok House, Southeast entrance, propped door. Lots lletween Davidson House and Richmond Hall, Female student followed by unknown male. Delayed call, area checked, subject gone on arrival. Clii 'P'si, Huntley Lane, Underage female student transported to hospital for alce>ho! overdose after consuming alcohol at Chi Psi social event. Alcohol poli.cy violated. fox Hall 3'' 1 floor South, Guest of student causing disturbance and threatening pr<>perty damage. Conduct charges filed. Potter House parking lot south side, Vehicle <iamaged. No suspects. Security Updates by Kate Sch.midt • An impending arrest has btJen issued for last term's intruder in the girls' locker room. Students have identified the man and Schenectady Police a~re (Urrently holding him in custody. • Campus Safety is in the pr.o.:ess of organizing a self-defense course for women on campus. Bob To meek, .Security Supervisor, has secured a deal with Panhelle to fund and organize the C<Jllrse for Greek women. Independent women may sign up for the course in the Campus Safety office. • A \silent witness\ program .has recently betJn instilled. This program offers students the opportunity to a11onymously call and report ~my information on a campus crime. The voice mail box is not connected to security and does not include the tlption oftradng a call. To meek hopes that this opportunity will encourage students who otherwise wouldn't feel cm:nforbtble reportiltg a crime to do so. The number is: 388-8}~9. • To meek would like to thank ~rig-Phi, Gamma-Phi and Panhelle for inviting him to their meetings. If you woullllike to set up an appointment with To meek to discuss the updated security 1111 campus, yon can do so by contacting Campus Safety. Announcemelt·ts- . . . Term Abroad in India. The Exchange Program to India f~Jr the Winter Term of 1999-2000 is open to all students at Union. Interested students should contact Ms. Salima Pasha or Prof. Jagdish Gajjar on the second floor of Steinmetz Rail. Application deadline is April28. Schaffer Library Book Sale!! All Hardcovers are 1 dollar and Faperbacks will be sold for 50 cents! April23, 1999 from I 0:30AM to 4.:30PM Come t() the Atrium ·<»f the Library. Announcing the Ninth Anuual Charles P. Steinmetz Symposium May 7,19,99 You can pick up an application and guidelines from the department secretaries or the Associate Dean's Office, S-1 00 Science .and EngineeringBuil(ling .. Applications should be turned in to the department secretaries. All students who will go to NCUR in Rochester are expected to present at the Steinmetz Symposium. Photographer Thomas Roma .Lectures and P~esents His. Work Roma, Professor of Arts at Columbia University School of Art will lecture Thursday, Aprill5, at 11: 15AM in the Arts Building,, Room 215 Robert Avon Smith Summer Research Fellowship in Bio-Medical Engineering at Union College. The fellowship is sponsored by .Robert Avon Smith, Class of 1952. It is awarded to students in the sciences or engi- neering who participate in a summer research program in bio-medical engineering under tile guidance of Union College faculty. The award will be made available to a student selected on the basis of ability to conduct independent research in bio- medical engineering and commitment to the summer research program. Students intereited sh.ould contact Professor J.. Richard Shanehrook in the Department of Mechanical Engineering. SENIORS If you are interested. in speaking at the Baccalaureate .or Commencement, submit a 1-4 page -draft (appl'oximately 5 minutes) to Judy Ludwig, Secretary to the Dean of the Faculty and member of the Commencement Committee, by Friday, April 16. The topic is yours to choose. Please include your name, box. number, and phone number on your d.raft. If you are interested in singing or performing at the Baccalaureate or Commencement, please submit your name to J11dy Ludwig by Friday, April 16. If you would like more information about this, contact Judy Ludwig at 388-6102 or at tile Dean of the Faculty's Office on .the second floor of Feig.enbaum Hall. Auditions for speakers and singers will be held by the student members of the Com111.encement Committee starting at 6:30PM on Tuesday, April27 and Wednes- day, April 28. Sign up. for an ~mdition time when you submit your draft or name to Judy Ludwig. An Ad Hoc Committe Formed to Consider Tenurability of Susan Lehrman, Assistant Professor of the GMI Any member of,fhe campus ccm.munity who wishes to offer written or oral testimony concerning Assistant Professor Lehrman's teaching, scholarship or college service should coli tad Professor Hilary Tann at x6566, tannb@union.edu. Reappointment Review of Professor Hyuneii Park Faculty, students and administrators familiar With Pro- fessor Park's teaching, scholary activity, and/or college service are welcome to submit .:omments to Professor Bonney MacDonald, Chair of the English Deparntent at macdl)nab@union.edu. I I

'• Catnp~s Ne. ws . . r\\'--..fl! April 15,\ 1 ~99 \'• Page 3 Students Le·arn How To Research During Weekend Constru£tioo to Improve Tennis Courts by Jessica Zuehlke News Editor Union Represen.titives At NCUR' by Erin Connolly Staff Writer Each year larger amounts of Union students board buses, planes or trains to take journeys of knowledge that would last for three days. This year's delegation of stu- dents was comprised of all depart- ments on campus, and the desti- nation was the University of Roch- ester; their purp<;>se was to repre- sent Union through undergradu- ate research at a conference called NCUR (National Conference of Undergraduate Research). The Facility Service Department, student canoe team representative · formally known as Campus Opera- Chris DiStefano '00~ In a presenta· : tions, has been very busy lately. tion titled, \PoreS' Concert Made . : Their newest project is currently with Plastic Powder and Gains~\ : underway. In approximately five DiStefano iHustrated the benefits , weeks, the construction behind of the use of plastics in concrete • Lamont House wiU reach comple- ' with a power point presentation. : tion and two new tennis~courts will He highlighted the benefits of re. : be the result. moving sand and gravel from con· The addition ofthe courts could crete and then replacing it with . • not have come at a better time. plastics to make the substance . : According to NCAA rules, six ten- stronger, more stable and lig~ter. : nis courts need to lie in a row in DiStefano said that NCUR was a . order to compete in the league. valuable experience where stu· : Until now, that has not :been the dents could presenttheir work for ' case on Union's carnptls:. Four are the sake of furthering their re· • situated behind Psi Upsilon and search. There were \no awards, and: · Chi Psi and five lie next to each no grades; it was very much like a •. other between the library and doctor retreat for undergraduate South Lane. work.\ The plans for renovation include Along with the student delega- tion of 55 members, there were the devoted faculty advisors: Profes- sor Hagerman, Professor Winder, Professor Ghaly an·d Professor Weisse. Accorqing to Professor· Ghaly their purpose was '~first to be on the bus.\ NCUR not only allows under· ·. building two more courts next to graduate students to present their · • the four behind the fr:atemities. own work, it gives them the oppor· • The immense tree that is growing tunity to see what other students , in that area will not be t3ken down; from around the nation are doing. ' the oak will separate the fifth and Construction on the ten11is courts should be finished in five weeks. A more seriousnote,. the faculty advisors play a key role in starting Union students on the road to NCUR They review the students work as a preliminary step to NCUR. \The faculty advisor is a key in the pre-conference efforts. That per- son perfonns the first reviews of student absttac.ts,\ stated Profes- . sor 011aly,. who gave a presenta- tion on learning; engineering con- cepts through the use of experimen- tation. He used the concept of having his students type new unconven- tional techniques in order to rein- force the etementary principals of engineering. The example of his teaching style which Professor Ghaly pre- sented to NCUR was last year's concert canoe·. rhe actual data on the shark- faced canoe was presented by the Professor Ghaly illustrated the · ·. sixth courts. importanceofthis'\student-to- stu· Also in the plans is the dernoli- dent\ interaction by saying, \The . tion of the two courts that are di- conference is not just presenting; · · rectly visible from the s.econd floor it is about asking good questioas of the library. \' and learning.\ : Director of the Facility Service NCUR was not aU hard work and .• Department David Gryzbowski learning. Dean Lewis and Kate : stated, \In order to create nice Hopper made a considerable effort ' views\ from the solitude reading to provide some fun and relaxing. i area within the library, the two ten- activities for the ;<;tudents. ais courts will be removed. In its . NCUR providedth~m with a ban· : place, a green area will he plan~ed, qu.et tQ close .t)Je very .successful; •. consisting of a grassy lawn and three days. There was a live swin.g • • some pleasant trees. . band which provided Profess()r · ~he final t~ree co~rts that re~ Hagennan with the opportu~ ity to : mam near the hbrary Will be pus.hed teach. i; liP in order to utilize the space be- Union has been an active mem- •· tween the current cou.rt and the bet of the NCUR conference for •. Alumni gym. During this pr:ocess, · all three courts will be resurfaced some time and this year's presen· , tations not only taught Union stu· : and one will be transformed into a dents how to present their projects • combination tennis/outdoor bas- with grace and style, but also- ketball/inline skating court. showed the importance of partici· The work outside of the library pating in such a prestigious con· will not begin until after Com~ ference. mencement Ceremonies, but will be · completed sometime late in Au- gust. Surprisingly, the money for this project is coming, not from the ath- •letic department, but out o fthe fund set aside for the new Schaffer Li- brary. The renovations 'Rill in- crease the serenity of the building as well as enhance its beauty. With the completion of this court removal and landscape revision project, the Schaffer Library will be 99% finished Other proposals. made by the Office ofFacility Service Depart- ment include pavement of both the· Psi Upsflon and Chi Psi parking lot and the Richmond lot Bright str~et-lights will be added to the latter in order to create a safer en- vironment In order to call itself a full resi- dence college, Union needs to guarantee housing to all students for four years. In order to do so, many renovations on the residence llalls have begun. Davidson North will be getting a cosmetic improve- ments which includes a set of new furniture. The old Phi Sigma Kappa along with North Colonade will be trans- formed into complete housing fa- cilities. The present residence of North Colonadc, the Office of College Re- lations is planning its move into the newly-purchased .estate at the corner ofUnion A venue and Lenox Road. Work is scheduled to take place at the Fero House, the new home of Alpha Delta Phi. Along with this job shadows the refurbishment of an abandoned guesthouse on Lenox Road. This new building will be the home of 16 Union students, come early September. More field space llas been iden- tified as a need to Facility Services, but there are no plans regarding this in the near future. \This is going to be a very busy summer on campus,\ says Grzybowski. All projects hope to be finalized by the time classes start nex:t fall. Unio~-Scene~tady lnitiative: A Bold Plan To ~r·eate a Safer Community For the Future ... continued from page 1 the reduced mortgage rates and elimination of a closing fee offered to Union faculty/staff who commit to buying one of the 35 houses owned by the school. All of these properties are expected to be com., pleted by the fall of2000. Along with the ideal residential community, the USI proposes other incentives for the area. One of the positive additions to the neighborhood is the operation of a Community Outreach Center. St. Clare's Hospital will sponsor health and wellriess classes and Girls Inc. plans to offer education, recreation, and self-esteem work-· shops to teenagers; Also involved are the Van Corlaer School, promoting after-school programs with Union students as mentors and the General Electric Elfun society, consisting ofvolun- teerGE employees. Also proposed is a house on the corner of Seward Place and Huron Street designated as the new Union Security satellite office. Security Jen McDo-weii/TC President Hull speaks to the press about the Union-Schenectady Initiative. will patrol the newly renovated area on bikes as a supplement to the Schenectady Police Department. The lives of the residents cur- rently living in these houses have not been overlooked. Gretchel Tyson, head of the Neighborhood Association has been \meeting with the community and listening to tlleir thoughts.\ Union is helping these people find new, cheaper housing. The college has offered to pay for their tempo- rary housing during the relocation process. The project will cost the school alone lOmilliondollars. This lump sum represents the most amount of money any sch()ol has invested in a community outreach initiative. All of these efforts are for the purpose of rebuilding the city of Schenectady. The USI intends to create a link between the campus and the city while improving the life of the community around Union. So far, the plan is bringing in exciting results.

Page 4 • April 15, 1999 • Olon:uJr~i£nsis NFL Star Speaks to Campus by Mary Felton StaffWriter The Nott Memorial was filled with students and members of the Union faculty as well as neighbors from the Schenectady community this past Thursday evening to Jis,.. ten to a famed athJ')te speak on the subject of substance abuse. Carl Eller was introdt,Iced by Union's Sports Information J;Jirec- tor, George Cuttita. Cutiita summed up his career and experiances be- fore handing the podium over to Eller. Carl, a fanner NFL Minnesota Viking and a trained specialist in behavioral and mental health, the founder of the Triumph ofLi.feCen- ter and Founder ofthe USAA, an organization comprised of junior and senior high school students to promote drug free sports, en- liglltened the Union community withhis experiences in dealing with substance abuse. Throughout his speech, Eller stressed the importance of achiev- ing one's goals, through hard work and dedication. At one point during his talk he quoted someone saying, \Know what you want, and why you want it and how you are going to get it.\ Eller began his talk by bringing the audience back to his childhood, where the transition between el- ementary school and high school and the death of his father helped in leading him to join the wrong crowd or the \D\ grQup, as he re- ferred to it. This \D\ group was comprised of students who regularly got into figllts, had little academic motiva- tion, and who subsequently re- sorted to alcohol abuse. Joining his high school's foot- ball team for his sophomore year, Eller was inspired by a remark from Courtesy of Public Relations Former NFL player, Carl Eller spoke to the campus last Thursday. his ·coach, who told him that with drastic changes in his school work in addition to his potential on the team could lead to a college schol- arship. With the prospects of college in his future, Eller pursued his goal and earned a scholarship to the University of Minnesota. Here he learned discipline and commitment due to his involvement on the University's football team. His success in football taught h irn to place sports first with no drinking or smoking. After college, Eller went on to play professional football for the Minnesota Vikings, where he was a member of elite squad named the \purple people eaters.\ His career on the Vikings lasted for fifteen years, four of which the Vikings made it to the Super Bowl. Although Eller stated his belief that sports should come before drugs and alcohol, he did admit to · having continued drinking during his football career in spite of his desire to alleviate it. Eller made sure the audience was aware of the clear messages he wished to extend. He believed that it is important to invest in col- lege, and that one should never quit\ ... every time you fail, correct yourself.\ Lastly he stressed the need to take advantage of opportunities and c-hallenges that come your way, to get through college, and to remain physically and mentally healthy throughout. Junior, Tashie Murphy gave a fitting comment on Eller's speech by saying that he \ ... was well-spo- ken, and seemed to be genuinely concerned with the issues of sub- stance abuse today.\ Prospective Union Students on Campus by Lisa Carbone Contributing Writer As spring arrives, it soon comes time for prospective students to make a decision about whether to attend Union College. During the month of April, the college wel- comes hundreds of perspective students and their families. By holding admitted student re- ceptions, these higll school se- niors are given the chance to im- merse themselves in Hfe at Union for a day. This year, the programs will be held on two Mondays: April 12andApril19. In this full <lay, students are given the chance to familiarize themselves with the opportunities, education, and experiences Union has to offer. They are given campus tours, residence hall tours, and encour- aged to visit classes. A parent and student luncheon with faculty and current students allows for some in formal conversation and a chance to get a feel.ing for what the student body is like. Later, faculty led tours highlight all aspects of Union by showing prospectives vari.ous departments such as the career development center, sciences and engineering, visual and performing arts, pre- medical advising, educational stud- ies, athletics, and the graduate man- agement institute. When Dan Lundquist, Vice Presi- dent of Admissions and Financial Aid, was asked about the success of these programs, he smiled enthu- siastically. He feels that the program has had a stunning impact on kids atten- dance here. Much of the success is attributed to getting these stu- dents to actually see the campus. \Students sense the genuine- ness of this college,\ says Dan Lundquist. \Many quickly find that they could see themselves here af- ter seeing the faces on campus, stu- dent interactions, and bulletin b<Jards filled with events.\ Lundquist believes the single most powerful recruiting tool is get- ting kids to campus, because no brochure, website, or video can do wllat a campus visit does. Other reasons that Union scores very high affirmatively are that the architecture, facilities, and overalf feel of the campus impresses people. Out of the students who c<:lme to visit Union's campus about 70% accept. Unsurprisingly, many peop]e d()n't know what to make of S<;henectady. Some are also worried about go- ing to school in a city. Therefore, it is important for them to come see Schenectady and realize that an airport, train station, bus sta- tion, many movie theaters, malls and other attractions are all close by. \Believe it or not, Schenectady does not tum that many people off,\ said Lundquist. The good word about Union seems to be spreading as we are receiving record numbers of ap- plicants. Admissions has found that the quality and diversity of applicants are also at all time highs. Conse- quently, Union is recruiting against more ivy league schools. Lundquist has been equally im- pressed with the good person quotient among applicants. It is evident that these admitted student receptions in April have Jured prospectives to see Union's campus and thus resulting in higher enrollment. Overall, the whole package in- cluding the visit, student and fac- ulty interactions, and tours of the facilities, works positively for Union. Not only do these receptions bring out the best in the college and all it has to offer, but they have brought on a new caliber of attend- in.g students. Campus News Student Forum Notes STUDENT FORUM MEETING APRIL 7, 1999 Meeting called to order 7:40PM. Absent: Markowski (abroad), Bennett, Chaplin, Edelman, Crowell, Montas. Agenda-adding Yulman, & nomi- nations Motion to approve agenda-Roache Second-Lynch. All in favor. Pass OFFICER REPORTS Finance-Parisi- Budget problem in computer. Concordy needs $8000. Reallocating money for @ 13 clubs. Hold all clubs account- able for money they propose to make. Roache- Each month ·finance reps reconcile accounts to keep track of money. Parisi cont- UMMED needs $600 to update equipment. Where to get money? Casola\-Possibility to go to health · services for money. DISCUSSION ABOUT MONEY ALLOCATED TO CLUBS Parisi cont-UCARE Day wants $5000. Possibility to give them $2000, ask them to raise $2000 and then give extra $1000. Roache- If they apply to be club, they can have club status and allocated money. Roache-Motion to approve money allocation for UCARE Day. Amendment to motion-Finance committee finalize reconciliation of holding account first before money allocation. Second. In favor- I 0. Opposed-1. Abstain-2. Motion passed. Pan-hel-Okeefe- SDT appeal in, . decision by next week. Tri-delt application for new house. MS Walk, April IS. More security to campus. Amendment to guide- lines for starting group-need 5 members for group status, need 3 members to return to group status. Administration-Lynch-COC review golf club. Committee applications given Monday 4th week, due Monday 5th week. Constitution of Enable Club-Awareness of students with learning disabilities. Campus Life- Roache- Spring Fest coming along, starting with Senior Night at Chets, April 13, Spring Fest April 14, 15. T-shirt logo passed around. AAC-Mondlick-Nothing. Multi-Ctdtural-Bennett- Absent. Trustees-Zandman- Funclraising and endowment. School had en- dowment rating. New head fundraising needed. Appeal letters for SDT. Sti'llman Prize committee. Trustee meeting last weekend of April. IFC-McKinney-Greek Week; April28-May 2. Planning Greek formal. Phi Sigma housing gone. THC- Eietz- Roster for new members due April23. Consortium problem with attendance at meetings. Questions about what considered theme house. Seniors-Casola• Senior gift kick offfundraiserbegins April14. Friday, April18 meeting with Presi- dent HuiJ. Working on senior ac .. tivities, gift, etc. Juniors-Barry- Clothing drive ends ne:xt week. How to spend money at end of year. Sophomores-Aloan-nothing. Freshmen-Markowski-nothing. OLD BUSINESS Vandalism- need to voteon SAC. Recommend double restitution + $150. Motion to vote- Zandman. Second. In favor- 13. Opposed- . Abstain- 1. Passed. Wierzbieniec-Reports of campus safety incidents now made quar- terly. Open forum Tuesday April 13. NEW BUSINESS Parisi- July 3 tix toY ankees game, $1/tix. Proceeds to Schenectady Little League team. Lemle-Y ulman Theater for kick off to rush, first weekend back winter term. DISCUSSION ABOUT DISSAT- ISFACTION WITH USE OF YULMAN THEATER Lemle-Keep fighting c.ommon lunch situation. Wierzbieniec- Community Service Day. Leader- ship training Saturday April I 0. SAC-Aioan-Old Chapel Rules. Motion to approve Constit11tion for Enable- Lynch. Second. ln favor- 13.0pposed-O.Abstain-l. Passed. Zandman- Nominations for Del- phic Honor Society, Calvin Schmidt Award and Wendy Berstein Award.Motion to adjourn. Second. All in favor. Meeting Adjourned- 8:44PM Baroque Dance Preview by Bt·ooke Barylick Editor-in-Chief the Performing Arts department, will narrate the event by providing insights into the fascinating rela- tionships between poetry, music and dance in these songs, which were once enjoyed by university students in the sixteenth and sev- enth centuries. In January, Union College caught a glimpse of VersaiJies when the Ken Pierce Baroque Dance Com- pany of Boston performed in Me- morial Chapel. They entertained students and faculty with. pieces that were once a source of enter- The dance type that will be ex- amined during this presentation is tainment for royalty, such as King a challenge to athletes and dance Louis XIV. students everywhere because of Two members of the company, Ken Pierce and Melinda Sullivan, will return to Memorial Chapel on Friday, April 16 at 8 PM for alec- ture and concert about dance mu- sic that has not been heard in over four centuries. A professional vo- cal ensemble, including the talents ofValerie Lord, Gwen Pykett, Dan Foster, John Lopez and John Malthouse, will accompany the dancers. Professor Dianne McMullen, of the energy and strength it requires. A reception will follow after the presentation. In addition to the performance on Friday night, Mr. Pierce will con- duct a workshop on dances from the era of Queen Elizabeth I. It will take place from 1 :30 until3:20 in the Performing Arts studio on the first .floor of the Arts Building. All stu- dents are invited and encouraged to attend. No previous dance expe- rienced is necessary.

Queer Visibilicy Week . . . . . happened, one of her very close her famtly and her parents still had • byGmaCam~anella friends asked her if she was gay. no idea what was going on. . StaffWrtter Horrified at tile suggestion, she At one point she had asked her · LastnightMAGkickedoffQue¢r denied ~ny sugg.estion that she parents for money to gg to coun- • Visibility Weekat7:30 PM in Old may be homt;>sexual and did not seling, but they had denied her on Chapel. An emotional spt:;echwas even see it as a consideration. tlte account that there were nuns • given by Siobahan Hinkley to be- One night, when she was on t() counsel her on campus and that . gin this week of awareness and duty as a Resident Assistant in her she could talk to them (her parents) education. dorm, one of her female friends about anything. Ms. Hinkley was chosen topar- was over and was very upset. Eventually she was without :ticipate in the opening events due Due to her on-duty status, friends, without a family and with- to her many qualifications and the Hinkley was. required to keep her out a degree. Rathskeller Introduces New Pinball Machine by Lee Stevens Contributing Writer The Rathskellar is entering the spring trimester with a new atti~ tude. Recently it has acquired a new South Park pinball machine do· nated by Larry Lieberman who Students from thejazz ensemble will be spending their Wednesday aftemo<Jns at the Skellar playing live music on the patio. From 12 PM to 1 PM, students can enjoy dassicalmusic while munching on ,roast beef subs. man~ contri~utions she has made door open. While she was consol- Hinkley found herself turning to ~---------------------.----------------.1 graduated from Union in 1983. This won't be only music ring- ing through the Skeller this spring. Friday, April23, Anika Bentley will be playing .in Old Chapel from 8 PM t() 10 PM. All students are wel- come and encouraged to come. Music fqn Jason Ralph mentioned, ·~rve been listing to Anika for a longtime and I will definitelybe in ilttendance.\ 11 DiiiCUSllion an awe ~elations OW:rhrunch Vpper Class 1~ 18 \l'raycdioin the M.lr&lnah V.Brocb MeDoaald 1pm; Mlmon.l 12 Discuuion onraceat 7:3() -Fox -Si&Pbi ., ShcllaiieGJy \Pan~. ~~.,..- 7pm;SS104 6 DiD/ogve.s Kick;...()ff 4pm Brian Wtight Old Chapel 13 Holocaust Remem- bra nee Day 29 Veadors·in RCC QUEER VISIBILITY WEEK 7 Di4legues OcnderBies 8pm -Chi Psi -rui;mnond 14 Ditllo~FD Sexual Qrieutation Siobhan. Hinkley 7:30 Old Chapel 21 \RainiJow Ralbt\ in iromof RCC;l2:U Eil!!lnovie SS~168pm 8 Dial ope& Religion Spm -Davidson ·AEU 15 CiLSEN ~Satef.yin School~ 4pln SS~04M.Hdui o.-r Ull ;7;30 (M.MiUer) Ol~Cha9cl I Am H'.t Oiur.t ~'7:30 Soc. Sci. 1 16 9 Dialogues .(discussion .groups:) .Dinner atKA 7JHD Ui WIUIIIIi Golda 4;30; leclun: 00. \Queer 'llleldle\ at Bilminitles 019 ~~ 9pniiKA ~& Choorht<uwvio Olm.Aud.llpm 10 11 Carnival DaneeParty DiaJosllet Cloole Old Chapel ?.E EquaHty through Visibility Liebennan, takingtimeofffromhis prestigious career at the cable tele· vision network, Comedy Central, was recently down at the RathskeHar. While there, he no\ ticed the old pinball machine was looking a little inadequate for today's Union students. In an ef- fort to add some flare to the Skeller, Liebennan arranged to have the newmachine sent. Surprisingly, students are al- lowed to play unlimited pinball at no cost because the game was given to the school for free. The newest member of the Rathskellar team, David Roselle stated, \The pinball machine and my new posi- tioll as head chef symbolizes are- birth in Union College cuisine.\ Anika Bentley isn't the only party at the Rathskellar this term. This Friday the Skellar wiH play host to Latin night and feature ex- otic Latino dishes such as fried bananas. Later on in the semester the Skellar plans to have an \out- of-control\ beach party. At the end of the month the Skeiiar is featuring its famous foosball tournament. Again, ev- eryone is encouraged to sign up either at the Rathskellar or by call- ing x6124. Prizes will be given out to the winners. The new pinball machine won't be the only change at the RathskeHar .. ~=======================!=====================::::::!~ The Skellar is now offering new With all these changes, the RathskeUar foresees its entrance into the millennium with a new for- mula for student satisfaction. If there are any changes you would :J ike to see with in Skellar, you can fillout a new comment card to sus- tain the level of quality. to benefit the Gay and Lesbian community. She is the Executive Director of the Gay and Lesbian Community Center in Albany and helped co-found an organization called visibility. The mission of this organization is to educate individuals, organi- zations and institutions ab<Jut ho- mophobia. Ms. Hinkley believes that one of the major problems surround- ing the issue of homosexuality is lack of education. She enjoys speaking at colleges because she feels that this is the community in which individuals who are questioning their sexual- ity are most severely effected. Last night Ms. Hinkley spoke about her own experiences com- ing out. She emphasized the fact that when one comes out they may not only be coming out to their family and friends, but they migllt also be going through a coming out process to themselves. Ms. Hinkley's coming 011t story began her senior year of college when a man she had bee11 seeing asked her to marry him. She did not yet know why but she refused his proposal because it simply did not feel · Sh qfter this ing her friend, aresident walked in to see the two women hugging. This resident began the rumor that Hinkley ~as gay. As all students who attend small liberal arts col- leges know, a simple rumor can change one's life overnight; this was the case forSiobahan Hinkley. Once Hinkley realized that this might actually be an aspect of her life, she went througb her first stage of the coming out pmcess, and she came out to herself. After this first stage was com- pleted, she became the subject of much ridicule, discrimination, and abuse. She was beaten up twice by groups of students and the col~ lege asked her to resign from her . position as a resident assistant Her room was broken into and often things were stolen, and many people found it open sea·son to take revenge for some of her actions when she was a resident assistant. In the mean time, most, ifnot all, of her friends 11bandoned her. Af- ter a short while, Hinkley had no choice but to move off campus, eventuallyitbecame impossible for her to set foot on campus at all By the middle of her second se- mester of her senior year, she had failed out of scllool. To add to this drugs and alcohol in order to at- tempt to self medicate for her de- pression as many young gay people do. This is when she decided to take · matters into her own hands and tum her life around. She comb'ats anyone who holds the belief that homosexuality is a choice by say- ing, \The only choice I had as a gay person was to live my life.as a lie.\ Hinkley continued to emphasize tlte need for education and services for homosexuals. She pointed out that there are only three programs in the United States to aid gay and lesbian teens around suicide. In addition there are only two safe houses for gay and lesbian homeless teens. · Hinkley concentrated on the idea of teen homosexual suicide by pro- viding the following federal statis- tic: \A male youth who is ques- tioning his sexuality is three times more likely to attempt suicide than any other minority in our culture.\ The following week is intended . to promote education about and acceptance of the gay and lesbian community. All students are highly encour- · aged to participate and show their Hazing Punishment Upheld by President Hull they had been granted all of the current Sigma DeltaTauresidency in Potter House as well as one floor of Delta Gamma in Potter House. According to Tri-Delta President Siobhan Keheyas \we will be able to house 57 of our approximately 90women.\ On the Tuesday prior~ April 6, the Student Affairs Committee (SAC) was informed that not only was Seward and Thurston House available as living space, but listed Potter House as well. This implies that no matter what Sigma Delta Tau plead in their a_ppeal, that their penalty of''no housing until April ... continued from page I of2000\ was adetii1ite puniShment. sorority as an example of how they After learning of SAC's knowledge are cracking down on hazing merely that Potter House was empty, the to please anti-Greek faculty,\ said sisters ofSDTstrongly believe that Junior Robyn Polansky. President Hull would never have According to attendants of given back their house. \He's get- Friday's meeting, the women rep- ting too much pressure from fac- resentatives of SDT felt that nei- ulty and wants to make a statement ther HuH nor Alford were intend- to the entire campus with this spe- ing to lessen any of the charges cific incident,\ said a Junior frotn placed againstthe sorority. Joanna SOT. Cohen, Junior said, \I think the pro- Other sisters also believe that cess was just a formality and that the administration's decision not the decision to maintain the harsh to consider any of SOT's appeal p,unishment was predetennined.\ was harsh, and wrong. \Our pun- ishment did not fit the crime, which Administrators involved could makes me believe they used our not be reached at time of print. and improved chicken parmesean sandwiches and slushies. Further- more, in a few short weeks the Skellar will be adding the muctt re- quested chicken fingers to their fast growing menu. Culinary arts major David Roselle bragged, \Wow! These new chicken parm 's are awesome.\ Sophomore Jay Warzala says he will now be spending a lot more . cash at the Rathskellar with the ad· dition of the pinball machine. \'I've seen Dave flip some burgers and that boy has got skills.\ Sophomore Paul Kilfoy had this to say about the new comment cards: \Useless. The Skellar is al- ready fantastic; no need for im- J>rovement.\ All faculty and students should C()me check out the modernized Rathskellar and experience the clmnges for themselves. Pinball machine dol'lated by the creator of South Park.

Page 6 • April 15, 1999 • (!lan.corniensis Campus N·ews Union Leaders: \Oh the Places You'll Go\ by Brooke Barylick Editor-in-Chief Many Union students participate in activities on campus. They go to meetings and raise money for their respective causes. However, at this college there exists a rela- tively small group of individuals who dedicate themselves to more than one cause. In fact, they di- vide their time and energy between multiple activities and organiza- tions in which they are not only members but they are also leaders. These students and their ideas are respected and valued in their clubs. For this reason, the aforemen- tioned students were invited to participate in the first annual Union College Leadership Conference ·oh, the Places You.' II Go\ on Sat- urday, April I 0. The event started at 9:45AM on Saturday moming in the Coliege Center Atrium. Participants, after registering, were invited to partake in breakfast and socializing. Shortly after 1 O:OOAM the students filed into the auditorium for the Keynote presentation. An introduction by Hemwatie Ramasami preceded the speaker. Ramasami, a senior, was a member of the leadership conference plan- ning committee. She .extended a warm welcome to all in attendance and- thanked the other members of the commit- tee namely, Josh Chaplin, Lori Greene and Tim Crowell. Ramasami also thanked Jenni Birch Szolwinski, Assistant Director of Student Activities, for her efforts and organizational skills. Ramasami then introduced the Keynote presenter, Dr. Maura Cullen who is a motivational ~peaker and educational consult- Dr. Cullen argues that children do \Tag.\ Site noted that the purpose ant. this for enjoyment and because of this ~~a-me is to run away from After a wann applause Dr. Cullen misery loves company. \it.\ Dr. CuHen made some keen ob- took the stage and explained that Dr. Cullen pointed out these servatio11s with this particular she would begin her presentation themes in order to have the lead- childhoodpast time. with a slide show that encom- ers at Union College realize that '~No ·o112e wants to be it. We ;a]( passed slides of photos that bore they should encourage other stu- - run away from it. In fact, we sacri- importance for the past four gen- dents to take risks and use self- fice·other:sto avoid being it. When erations, including our own. Some initiative. In addition, emphasis we are \iit\'wefeel alone, frustrate-d ofthe images that flasltedupon the should be placed on catching and embarrassed,\ Dr. CuUen screeFt were familiar, while others people doing things correctly, not noted. obviously occurred during another incorrectly. Dr. Cullen stressed to Dr. C u~lel'l then explained tbat time period. the studen1s present that they are how we treat others whea they are They rang-ed fr()m ,.-----------------.--------.. \it\ will indicate how we Scott Krueger, the young ' wm be treated. . man wlmctiea from alco- \Ernnahsis should be 1 'Being 'it' is relati\e. hoi at MIT, and :Cal· r We·will allbe 'it' one day. Ripken to the John pfaced on catching people Y()u,me,him. Wewillall Kennedy funeral and : b·e 'it.' The lesson here is Rosa Parks. Many .shots doing things COrrectly, not i to treat .others weH, sup- depicted war scenes from· , p-ort thei:n as they are gp- World War II and Viet- incorrectly •.. We need to set i ihg through their time to nam. Others flashed pic- • • l b b.e ~it.' You will learn from tures of the Challenger pOSlflVe eXamp eS · ~ re- that experience,\ she ex:- explosion and Ryan fi • • fi h \b •to plained. White, a young man who ralnlng ·rom eX l . l zng . Dr. Cullen closed her d'ied form AIDS. Dr. the charUCferisfiCS observed J presentation to loud qJ:l· Cullen indicated at the' · ·· · p1ause .. The students were dosing of the slide show in ~simon Says .. '\ then asked to attend on-e that the compilation of ! , oftluee seminars offered. these photos was meant ··The .first, called \How t() to symbolize the different times . role models and their peers follow Get Thimgs Done at Union,\ ex:- throughout history. It was also a their lead. Therefore, they need to plained h(}W to connect with key tool to make the participants re- setpositiveexamplesbyrefraining officesa.ndpeople.oncampus. The fleet upon the past. from exhibiting the characteristics second, entitled \It's Language Dr. Cullen shifted the direction observed in \Simon Says.\ That Reoatly Counts,\ stressed the of the program at this point and began concentrating of the games we played when we we:re younger. Dr. Cullen, using PowerPoint, ex- plained her ideas and conclusions about the games children play. One game she analyzed was \Simon Says.\ She claims that from this game children leamtoconfonn because the person most like Simon wins and follow directions. The object is to catch players do- ing something incorrectly so that they can be removed ffom the game Another example Dr. Cullen uti- importance: of body language as I ized was '\Musical ChaJrs.\ well as )[el'l>a] language when deal- It is a game \based on the scar- ingwith oillers. Theth.ird, \You're city principle: there is never Already There,\ emphasized the enough,\ Dr. Cullen noted. importam ce of self-confidence She explained that hoarding when o1te is aleader. chairs as a child prevents one from After these break-out sessions sharing and building coalitions students. we:reinvitedto lunch dur- with peers. Dr. Cullen empl1asized ing whicm tlley sat with students that in life coalitions need to be whose malhe tag bore the same formed and that resources should be shared, not kept to oneself. One final example that Dr. Cullen illustrated dealt with the game of colorasth-eirown. This allowed the students ltD converse with eacl! other about the day and other as.- pects ofUnion life. Lunch was f<Jl· lowed by another break-out ses- sion with three more o.pfi()ns. \You Call Do It on a Boat, YouCan Do It with a Goat: Creative Progmnming\ explained how tornake current ac- tivities more exciting and haw to brainstonn for new ideas. 'rhe sec- ond option, named \Motivating Others,\ tackled the topic of con- vincing others to attend functions. FinaHy, one could choose to attend \Many Hands Make Ligbt Work\ whiCh instructed students on how to delegate tasks and make use of time. The con9luding e\lent ofthe day occurred in the Campus Center Auditorium where the ae1ivities began. Students were asked t() recon- vene there to assess their \Myers- Briggs Type Inventory.\'Tiliswas a test that all :participants were asked to take by Dean Schurick, who conducted this portien of the conference. It analyzes what ones personality type is and how that relates. to other people w:itll other personality types. This section ofthe program was held to help the student-leaders deal with their peers and tn()se who are involved in their uctivities. Each student received h:is or heFperson- ality type with an e){planation to the category in wllich they fit. The day ended on this note with each of the students eocger to i11:tegrate the knowledge they 'learn~d in the conference int() the groups in which they .are involvetl, Junior Pam Green noted, \It was a well- organized day. I ~njoyed the dif- ferent options and speakers.! hope that Union can continue tl1is pro- gram.\ These sentime11ts were echoed by many as they le:ft the audito- rium and returned to the busy lives they lead at Unioll Colleg,e. Money Offered for Enrichment· Available Grant Money for Faculty and Students by Kate Scmidt Contributing Writer The Intellectual Enr·ichment Grant (lEG) is one of the notable opportunities Union has estab- lishedto promote academic enrich- ment on campus; unfortunately, many students and faculty have not utilized the grant's possibilities. The lEG was started last year to increase interaction between stu- dents and faculty members outside of the classroom. Both students and faculty are en- couraged to apply for a grant if they feel as though their proposal would allow students to take ad- vantage of the intellectual aspects of learning in a socially or cultur- ally stipmlating atmosphere. Grants are approved for dinners with faculty and students, work- shops for visiting speakers and artists, academic and culturally en- riching trips, receptions for speak- ers, movies and tlleater with dis- cussions, and individual propos- als which provide potential for an intellectual contribution to the campus. provided numerous bus trips into I was privileged to have had the New York City for the viewing of opportunity to take advantage of plays and concerts, sponsored the the lEG fall term, when one of my dialogues on race, and contributed classes received a grant to discuss money f<lr various receptions. and course work overdinner at the Van dinners. Dyck. Dean Williams encourages the I'm sure many students and fac- Union community to apply for the ulty would agree that experiencing grant and promote academic and intellectual enhancement outside cultural stimulation on campus. of the classroom is not ()Qly stimu- Applications may be picked up lating, but rewarding as well. in the Student Activities Office and Students who have taken part in e,..mailed to williamt@union.edu or the lEG encourage otbers to take delivered directly to the Dean of advantage ofthe pro gram as welL Studen1s' Office. According to Studeru Activities Proposals are reviewed weekly coordinator, LfzSchinitt, \The\-lEG and should be turned in on Man- is a great way \tor cairpus club~, days before 9AM. activities, departments and indi- This grant money is a great way vidual students to receive funding to get to know If!Ore professors and become more involved in aca- while experiencing culture within demic life at Union.\ · the community: The lEG selection committee, If you have an idea that will im- composed of deans, faculty and . prove the intellectual life ·of the students has over fifty thousand campus apply for an lEG, the expe- dollars to distributethroughoutthe rience may turn out to be one of year and they wish to spend a11 of the most rewarding you have at it before spring term is over. Union. Recently the lEG has added over Union wants to see applications three thousand dollars worth of for these grants and strongly rec- books to the Loeb Classical Library, ommends students to apply. UNION eott:l!as QrreU' DtvekyJrtwt Centtr CDC Updates ••• Aprill~: Orsuatc School of Social Services-Interested stude!lts u-e w~loome to join FiCrdhm Umversity representative Georgarm Stewart to discuss tlleir program.. :ne... s:i&D up N.ayt CDC tpm. Aprlll!9: JUDim! All4ersen ConsfJ)ting bas extonded their rcBume andPJ)S deadJimt. for- their Student LeadcisJii.p (onfereroeto Monday, April 19. April ll: tJS Marine Corps Officer Jlrogram. Information Table CC ll·2pm . IDteftlteii:ID yolilq at tlteC.reer DevelopJDeJlt Center Dedyear? Add gmtlmlls aywr ftSUIH! Oet tralni111 and excellent wotkex:pericnce. Candidate5 mUSt have'goocl interpcnCJDal and teamwork. skills, a strong work ethic, atlld «~joy bclping fellow stutleBts. Computer skills a plus. Applicalions due Fti.J;pil· 16. Questions• contact $ilelly @ x6176. Undergradll4teBfGraduates NYSIIID.A: NYS _Energy Researcll and Development Auchcrity in Ali)any is offeriil& tw1J internsllips far this smner .. lntm!ships are focusd on EnMn- mentall~ IIIII &crgy.Rcsources. Anyone inttrested witll a ~ocial scieneeo~ ~~ \lackgn)und;fiCluld come to the CDC formre informa- tion. A!lplicationdeadlme is Friday. ,\pril16. SENIORS Re5wme Deadlln('B: State Farm lnsllrance 4/16;.Amerim Express Fm~lal.Advisclrs 4116;. Parametric ~honolgy Cmp. 4/16; N~w York Power Pool.4/i6. blterviews: Northwestern Mutllallife & Baird 4/20; Kiewit Con· struc1iom Company 4/21. · · ·Check Mll'tlte CDC website for up-to-date job listings and a.nJOuamects. bttp:f/nw.wdouclll!eareer/CDaCDC.html

,, j•' ,' ' ,, .. '\' .... -,·.r .. ~ ... ~r·, .. \-s Advertisements .,. ~-~••t •- .. ,. ,...~ .~~14111•·1 I\ .... :!1 Ill til,.. 1 ~ o.rmu:orinensis • .April -5~ t 999 • Page7 Benefitting the Make~a- · ish Foundation Con1e support your fellow students! April 24, 1999 8:00PM Memorial Chapel ·

Page 8 · April 15, 1999 · <fintt:tnr~iensh;; No Second Chances Many of us pass through our lives in the same way. We blindly li\e each day, rarely noting the change from one twenty-four hour period to the next because of the comfortable r<>utine we have established. As college students, we find ou.rsel ves experiencing a monotony of days and weeks that, without notice, e-vol\e into months and years. lflle popular mindset seems to encompass the idea that today is the same as yesterday, which, incidentally, wUI be the same as tomorrow. Occasionally we reflect uponchildllood_memories, wondering wllere the time went and how it managed to pass us by. Some of the aforemen- tioned recollections seem yery distant while others are so fresh in our minds that they could have happened :only moments earlier. We won- der about the friends with whom we spent countless hours plotting mis- chievous acts and creating imagiuaFy situations into which we com- pletely submerged ourselves. We also remember some instances in our childhood that were not so pleasant. Times when things were not ~;oing as we hadhoped or dreamed. Times when the entire world seemed against us. Wh-ile contemplating these memories of our youth, we rnus.t question their validity and their purpose. Are we remembering the 'W:<~y things really happened or are we simply replaying the way would we have liked the situation to be? The way events actually occurred and they way we wanted them to be should be the same. We do not have the chance to return to our child- hood, nor are we afforded the opportunity to mend old wounds and broken ties. A new movie, just recently released, touches upon a subject that co- incides with the aforementioned topics. In Never Been Kissed a cepy editor for a prestigious newspaper has the opportunity to return to bigh school on an undercover mission to i!lvestigate the li\es of high scllool students today. Her boss expects her to discover what their interests are and what they hope to do with their lives. She relishes in the opportu- nity because she desperately wants to become a reporter. However, she does not realize the repercussions ofthe assignment. Upon entering the school, she encounters the same humiliation and torture that she experienced during her actual years in high schooL She is ridiculed by the \cool kids\ because ofher attire and branded a \'r1erd\ for her intelligent and thoughtful answers in the classroom. It becomes clear that this type of mental anguish which she endures is not uncom- mon in schools today not. was ituncon,mon during our childhood years. After end.uring numerous unpleasartt moments on the road to becom- · ing popular, the main character rises above the petty jokes, superficial friendships and rude comments. She realizes that life has so much more to offer. However, she only understa11ds this concept after returning to high school. Unfortunately, we do not lla\e the opportunity to return to high school. Regardless of our desire t() do so, we are unable to reverse the clock and change certain e\ents in our personal history. Therefore, the message is simple. Do: it right the first time. Remem- ber that life is not meant to be livedas a constant blur of sleep-deprived days that pass without significance. T'oday we have the opportunity to change our lives for tile better. We still have the ability to make a dif- ference in the world. Take advantageofit because, for most of us, there will be no second chance. BMBand DCB . Letter Policy & Disclaimer Letters to the Editor should be ad.dressed to the OPIED page and: be received by 5 PM the M()rnd.ciy before publication. Letters· be less than '500 words and sho:ul(( pertain to an issue thatconc¢ms : Union College community~ Final decisions concerning prin1ing : editing a submission .hel<>ng to the Editorial Board. Alll.etters must be signed and saved on a ltigh dc:1nsity disk, although the auth<Jr's e need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily ret1eot 1lle opinion of the Editorial Bofa:rd. Editorials reflect the opinion of a m~ority of the Editorial Boa-d, of no one member in particular. Any opinion columns or · fleet the opinions of the writers <lt artists,. and not necessarily .,...,.,,\ the Editorial Board. . . Advertisements appearing fuC(JncciJdiefisls do 1lotriece~s~iy. n :[le<:q opinions of the Editori~IBo~rd,. , . . . . : , . , •. .. , ·;<: Concardiensis is printed by World M~~i~; P04c-G~ptt~[ !W~~nuc~;.l NY, 12205, . . ..... ·. ... . ' . . . . . . . OP/ED Opinions Renovations on Old Seward Place Outside the campus, down on old you're doing the right thing, trying Seward Place, there was indeed a to do the right thing by Bob and all. world waiting I had not expected Bob didha.vehis troubles alright. and it changed my life. Now, we Never saw the guy. Worked night had more freedom and little to en- shift as a security guard. Would go cumber our important focus on from one company .to the next try- playing music and dating. ing to get that extra 15 cents an Rent was $66.67 each, per month hour. He had little contact with his that is, on the first floor, at 321 family in Boston and even:Jess with Seward Place. That was about mar- his ex-wife and daughter, who still ket rate back in the fall of '77. We l·i\ed in town, Working nights and were three Union College guys who living a solitary life, he would oc- shared the 3 ~ bedroom, l bath, casionally drive Mac to the new flat. Now a junior and finally \off Price Chopper for a few groceries. call1pus,\ I had it made, having He tried to keep a positive.attitude. learned all the import;mt aspects of Our landlord at 321 was Joe. An being on my own in the past couple Italian immigrant who Spoke with years at Union. Sharing cleanup a thick accent.. He was hard ofhear- duties, paying the phone bill and ing except when we said, \here's getting along with roomies being the rent, everything is fine.\ What? the key items. With the campus in Everything's fine, Joe! Oh, okay, view and the P&C grocer a short thanks! But, he would show up in walk away at Nott Street and asilksuitandnecktieeverymonth Maxon Road, our world was com- to collect the rent. He did not talk plete. down to us or ignore our minor Moving in was easy, the hand me complaints, th.ough there was the d~wn furniture being passed on i ike occasional \deaf ear.\ He respected antique heirlooms. The browtt our privacy and followed through couch, the green easy chair and a on th~ things he said he would do. most impressive large dining table He was cordia.r and well meaning, were staples of apartment li\ing. in his way, and this led to our treat- But, without electricity or lights, ing him and his property in a simi- even the remotest attempt at study Jar fashion. In Joe's eyes we were would be doomed. \Better go residentsandthatseemedtorequire check the fuse box,\ said Rich. more responsibi.lity on Seward The \fuse box\? And where pray Place than being just students. tell would that be? And how do you It was thecoldestmoming, so far, check those copper tipped, paper of the late fall and I bundled my wrapped, tubular fuses anyway? way out the door to a 9:30 class. The back wall of the attic was Coming down the street was Mac, dark (of course) and, in my ex peri- coat open, no hat, ruddy red cheeks ence, above freezing one of only a and sil\er/white hair blowing in the h~ndful of times. \They aU .look wind. \Mac aren't you cold?\ I. gwd to me,\ I ~aid, having left my · asked. \Na I've been walkin'. Just· cantinuity meter in Resisti\e Cir- coming from downtown, the library cuits Lab some two years earlier. and post office.\ \Been downtown These fuses were not burnt or bro- already,\ I asked? \Well actually ken that I could tell. \Well bet- I've already been up to Ellis Hos- ter get Mac,\ said Rich. \What's pita! for a checkup and then went Mac,\ I asked. \No who,\ he said, downtown.\ \You walked up to \Mac is the guy two houses down Ellis, home and then downtown and at313-thegrayhousewiththenice back, all this morning?\ I asked. steps up the front, next door to the \W ell.no\ he said, \I took my bi- old man who sits on the porch all cycle up to Ellis.\ With even day with his dog.\ We finally did greater incredulity I asked, \You discover the errant fuse without rode your bicycle up to Ellis Has- Mac's help that night, but, I tucked pita!?\ \Well no, I walked the bike a small piece of information in the up there and tben coasted home,\ back of my mind, (Mac was are- he said. Mac knew his limits say- sourceful, helpful, neighbor). This ing, 'Tm a bit too old to ride up the was a concept I had not expected hill, but coasting home saves a little to learn on day one. time.~' Over the next couple of years, Mac turned 70 that year, and 1 summers included, I lived at 321 turned 20. \Do you realize Mac and 315 Seward Place. Mac, hav- you're 50 years older than me?\ I ing moved into 313 in 1927 with askedoneda:y .. \Well his mother, had not moved in 50 from 70 is50,that'sright.\ \That's years. I sought him out and we be- great Mac,\ I replied. \It's great camefriends. \Stanley for you\ he said, \you're on the \buy yourself a house. One with a winnin' end.\ It's taken me more rental apartment in it too. You'll than20yearstobegintounderstand never go wrong owning your own what he really meant, though I home and the rental income can be- smiled when he said it. Y au see, come important if you're old like 70 is a respectful age, but your me,\ he'd say, in his gFavelly; but chances at life are just beginning at steady voice. age 20- don't let those chances slip \See now downstairs I rent to by you. Bob- he's rented there since 1957.\ Chance is another funny lesson. \He keeps the place up and don't It was on a grocery run to the Chop- cause me no trouble, see. I;ve only per when Bob told Mac about his raised his rent twice since he's been new security j()b in Albany .. It re- there, but I'm not greedy and he's quired Bob to carry a gun. Bob a good tenant. People tell me, 'Mac bought a shiny, silver .357 mag- your crazy to rent that whole down- nur'n. stairs flat for $75', but, it suits me At the checkout Bob offered to and I can't see makin' it tough on pay Mac's small grocery bill Oh Bob, he's got his troubles you and by the way said Bob; \I've know.\ taken out a life insurance pol icy on I see. I do see Mac. And I bet it myself and made you the benefi- makes you feel good to know tlJat ciary, Mac.\ Mac explain~d how it wasn't necessary and how Bob should lea\e t!te money to his fam- ily. But, Bob insisted saying, \Mae if it wasn't for you I'd be in the poor hous_e a hundred times over. So, if anything ever happens to me, I want you to get the insllf:ance and know that its because that's how I feel about you and aH you've done for · rne. Its not much Mac, but please, just say thank you_\ \Well alright Bob, thank you,\ he said·. Six months later Bob was murdered on the Albany security job. Some guys broke into the place, grabbed the .gun and used it on him. Because.<!>fNew York law concerning death on the job, Mac was paia double indemnity. Some days later a young woman knocked on Mac's door. \Are you Mac?\ she asked. \Yes he said, \and I know who you are, so just come right in.\ Bob's estranged daughter, looked a bit like llim and had that sadness. in her eye .. A single mother, just getting by in Schenectady, Mac knew exactly who it had to be. Mac said, \come upstairs and I 'II giveyouthekeyto Bob'splace. Go ahead and go inside and collect your thoughts. Anything you'd like to take from there as a remembrance of your father, go ahead. \When you're done come up- stairs and see me\. After Mac and the woman visited a short while, Mac wrote her a check for a then large amount of money. \Here he said, \this is for you. I don't have to write this but, irs the right thing tO:. do .. I;d gi\e yo.u more but, now l'11 'need ·thiS'<modey~ to· cciv~r fhe rent Bob wouldha\e paid. And ['II have to fix the place up to rent again or I may even sell now, I don't know.\ Later Mac confided in me, \I never dreamed I would ever need that money Bob left me but, Stanley, I'H tell you, I wouldn't have taken a million dollars in ex- change for the look on her face when I hand(;jd her that check;\ he said. I don't know if Bob would have wanted it that way but, it was the right thing to do. There are lessom in the walls of these old Seward Place homes. Like the campaign button from the win- ning party of the I 898 presidential election, nailed on an inside beam on Mac's old front porch. Though once outside the campus structures, these lessons are just as old and per- haps just as important as the lessons taught inside Union's halls. There is a measure of symbolism now, that these homes, officially, are bei·ng \brought into\ campus life. It is my hope the lessons will still be there for those students who pass by or live at old Seward Place. Lessons that renovations on the old homes should not obliterate. There are lessons that can fill campus life with the quiet of an old man and his boxer <log on the porch next door, or a lively retiree who 'II win your heart, with white hair and a fuse box. There's a spirit of someone you couldn't give a million dollars to trade for that smile and look you get when you do the right thing, down on old Seward Place. Sincerely, Stan Geberer Class of 1980

1' ·,, 'J ( r t ) :' ') \}\ r r ~ t • .,.~ f • i f.'\ II \,., t I,.- I ' OP/ED (!]:onrnrlkiensis • ~pril 15, 1999 • Page 9 Opinions A Prospective's Visit to Union Do you want to see your friends in y·our yearbook?· by Lis Kidder Opinion Editor This weekend was for many prospectlv~ students, a first look at the institution they will attend for the next four years. It is a chance for Union students to make a good impression on the upcom- ing clas'S and to fi;U the prospectiyes with excitement as tbey look toward a future at Union. I met one such pro- spective :tbis past weekeild, because. slle was staying with one of my friends. It is with confiden<1e tliat l tell you: we wiJlnever see her on camJ>us again. Her visit started like any other prospective's visit. We showed ller around campus, explaine<l the procedure for walking tllrough doors and assured he:r that there was no need to fear the mascot. On our tour we walked by a pile ofbumtConcordiensis,and we ex- plained tl!at it was the practice of certain sorQrities to bum newspa- pers that discussed their poor con- du-ct. She \Was surprised tllat col- lege students could be so imma- ture, but we explained that it was because tltey had to change their name to :SDH - Sigma Delta Homeles.s. My friends asked her the defin- ing question ·Of Union .students, \Do you drink?'' and discovered that she was very religious and did not. This presented a problem: as third term Union students, my friends could no longef remember a life without alcohol. This is not to say that they didn't try to come up with a sober activity to enter- tain the prospectiye, but in the end they decided to stick her on a com- puter to play solitaire. Six hours later, my friends came staggering back to the donn, and decided to ·convince the prospec- tive to come to Union. This in- cluded a swan dive off the top bunk, performed by one of my more inebriated friends. Her hand managed to land in the fish tank, knocking Spanky the goldfish un..,. conscious and splashing fish-wa- ter 011 the prqspective. rh e perfermance was then • m ove.d to thehaJI, in which two of • my friends ate macaroni and •. · cheese whi:l'e taking shots of • voclka. The prospective looked like s:he was going to have a con- niption when one sloshed student Je.aned over and told her, \This is11' t my fork, but I washed it to- <lay ,\ as she took another bite of macaroni. De last straw for the prospec- Hve was twenty minutes later, during an intense game of hall S<lccer. Going for a goal, my f11iend booted the ball, but had very little accuracy because of her blood/alcohC'l level. It bounced off the ceiling and whacked the prospective in the head,. making the imprint ()fa hexagon on her forehead. She started to cry, so we com- forted her with more computer · s<JI ita ire. When Iter parents arrived to pick her up the next day, she ra.n i11to the car and sat in the llacl<seat, rocking back and forth and. ·chanting, \macaroni. .. :m aca.roni ... macaroni.\ We ex- pl<!ined that she had a wonderful time and that we were certain that site would return to Union in the falL As we waved goodbye, we <J()ngratulated ourselves on a job \Well done. The 1999 GARNET YEAR- BOOK is in need of candid pho- tographs. Anyone and everyone can submit pictures. Please write your name and box number on the back (or home address if graduating) if you would like them returned. Send photos to campus box #0218 or to the Student Activi- ties ~Office. The more pictures you submit, the better your yearbook will be~ so please help out! Sugge·stions for Catnpus Safety by Steven Sclluler Staff Writer The bike patrol. Shiny reflective yellow jackets stopping crime un- der every shady tree and by every ancient stO>newall. Not a bad idea actually. [ like the fact th!!t cam- pus safety is making an effort to step up tlteirprotection oftlle cam- pus. I a]S(l like the fact that the school is trying to make stu- dents feel safer by instituting a \walkin~ escort\ where stu· dents working for campus safety wilt walk others home from the lii:Jrary or the campus center. Students help out in other areas of campus safety. The Urned club has kids on duty every Friday and Satur- day night to care for a.ny stu- dent -wlto may potentially party a I ittle to hard, and all week long there is a \commu- nity patrol\ that shadows se- curity officers as they do their rounds. It seems th.at there is a lot of stu- dent invol'Vement in securing the safety ofUnion's campus. N() in- sult to thest11dent involved i:n thes~ programs, but we need proression- als doing these things. Think of the high profile inci- dents that happen this year. The break-in and assault in Ricltmond. The assau It of a female student walking j)etween Davidson and Silliman, the \advising off cam- pus\ of a non-student carrying a gun, the knife point hold up off a student walking to his University Ave. apartment. How could these events been prevented? Would the hold-up on University been avoided if the student had been walking with a student escort? Probably not. What about the in- truder with the gun; what can a stu- dent that is accompanying an of- ficer do to help? Given, there are need the most professional offic- ers vt<Jrking. If this can't be ar- ranged we should at least ask for rnore officers at this time, not more students. I will be the first to op- p()Se extreme security measures su~h as video surveillance, but in- crea:.singthenumberofcampus se- ctui1y ()fficers will not restrict our free<lom. We should be and feel safer with a visible increase in the Illltnl>er of patrol officers. In addition all the campus safety patrolmen need to be well trained. Students have complained that when safety of:ficers.do respond to a scene they don'tknow exactly what Oinn.c.nraiensis Tire Student Newspaper of Union College Since IS77 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Brooke Barylick- David Brooks EDITORS-IN-CHIEF Jaime Chandler EXECUTIVE EDITOR Erika Mancini ED!TORIALCA RTOONIST \It seents that there is 3 lot of student involvement in securing the safety of Union's campus. No insult_ to the student involved in these programs, but we need professionals doing these things.~' to do. Incidents have oc- Elisabetll Kidder Cllrred where a student has OPINIONS EDITOR Victoria Har~reaves SCIENCE & 1 ECH EDJ1'0R -· . some kids who are particularly good at helping campus safety, but not just any work study applicant should be assigned to these jobs. What Union's Campus safety needs if they want to protect us better is well trained professional officers. The time when the most serious crimes occurred is at night. Yet, during the week is when Union security has the least full time staff on duty. All of our security offic- er~ work hard, butthis is when we been reprimanded by an RA for vandalism or another Jessica Zuehlke · NEWS EDITOR Neil Routman lesser offense, and when se- curity arrived they did not know the proper steps· to take. It's a scary thollght, but what could these guards ac- tually do in response to a serious situation. If the people that broke in1o Richmond had decided to do a~y1hing really harmful, what <:()uld any given night patrolman lu~ve done? Tlle schoo I needs to step up and Jl~Y f()r training and growing our . Cil111plls safety department into a first class outfit. Student safety sllollid be a top priority and no • <:()rhers should be cut when assem- · llling tile primary protectors of our Cillllplls. Brian Terlinsky SPORTS EDITOR Scott Scullion · FACULTY ADVISOR Kimberly Rohback A &EEDITOR Cory Silken PHOTOED/TOR WORLD NEWS ED/TO!? Jon Kelson Michael S. McGuire COPY EDITORS Danielle Devine Amanda Jackson ADVERTISEMENT COORDINATORS Ste\'e Mortefolio PROMOTIONAL MANAGER PHOTOGRAPHERS: Jen MacDowell, Jeremy Messler, Sloan Mill~r. DaveMeg;uerdichian, Leah S-Haker, R-ebecca Walsh. STAFF.- Matt Aronowitz, Jeffrey Ausr~ld, Jessica Brearton, Gina Ca!llpanella, John Carbone, Kevin Carter, Heather Clements, Erin Connoly, Jin DeWa11n, Mary Felton, Heath Fradkoff, MattGe11dron, Lori Greene, Sarah Harsll, C()urtney Hayden, Mike lger, Jon Kelson, Dani~l Kelhmanovich, Jordan Lippma:n, Sloan Miller, Shaun Montana, Stephen Nemeih, Brian Roache, Steve Schuler. E11gent: Shultz, Adant .. Paul Smolok, Louisa Stephens, Rory Stern, Jon Tapp~r, J<Jian Zandman.

Page tO·· Vandalism Or Art? The Writing on the Wall dern artists spent hours creating dents might not enjey them,. the 1h.e walls ·could possibly be con- ArtworkatUnionCollegehasto cartoons and drawings of Disco residents would be happy to paint str:Lted as offensive, I see nothing beapJlteciated in all of its forms. Stll,andthe Devil. Are these pleas- over them at the end of the year. wrong with taking it down; but to There is a line between creative By Kimberly Robback A&EEditor The \art\ began late one night ant>images? Not especially. Ave Residence Life argued that some scrub off the work that so many display and vandalism. inthehaHsofthe Coffeehouse. Let the¥ offensive? Hardly. Ate they ofthe art was perceived as \offen- have done so beautifully seems an Unfcrtunatleyformo'stcollegestu- it be noted that the Coffeehouse is art'? Absolutely. sive\ by maintenance. The house · an independent theme house which received a three year hous- ing renewal.fi'om the SAC commit- tee just last year. Some of the Society's residents felt inspired to help transform the cement bloc prison in which they I ive into a fo- rum for artistic expression. Armed with markers and ideas, a few ran- New At Proctor's Courtesy of Proctors Theater 11he following morning, the de- holds that residents do not find lightful woman who cleans the any of the artwork .offensive. It is house, in a fit of rage, spent hours pleasant and interesting. It makes scruiJbing the images off of the the Coffeehouse a home. waU. Most of them had been Artist Marius Calin expressed scrul:lbed away by the end of the concern over the limitations the day., leaving gray splotches tha1 school has placed on freedom of usecltoentertaintheresidents. As expression. Since Society resi- the artists returned home they ne- dents have already volunteered to ticed their art work had been de- repaint the walls at the close ofthe stroyed and set themselves to the tenn, is the issue simply a matter of task .of redesigning the hal I. One limitation on artistic expression? \I such artist wrote next to an image have lived in this house for two of a boy, \I bet permanent marker years. It will be here for at least is a pain to scrub off the walls.\ another three. Why are we allowed The battle: of l:rt:atiun anJ dt:stru~:- to paint the Coffeehouse but not tion lasted for several days. the halls in which ~elive?\ asked OnApril17, 1999,Proctor'spre- One brave soul· ventured into Calin. Nothingabouttheartwork sents A Salute to the Music of thetealm of paintings. She painted can be construed as \vandalism.\ Frank Sinatra, featuring the a flag. The next day she created a There is no vulgarity and in many Nelson Riddle Orchestra and spe- mural of clouds. Soon more artis- instances the paintings ·demon- d~ 1 guest Harry Connick Sr., with . tic talents began to help in the strate a great deal of talent. Musical Director Christopher painting. Images ofphotographs, The Society a<:knowledges that Riddle. trees, flowers, and symbols all be- it does not \own\ the house. It is From \Strangers in the Night\ to gan to appear on the walls. objectionable, however, that as a the show stopping \New York, For the first time in its history theme house, it is being stripped New York,\ them ost beloved hits the walls of the residency felt as the right to make a cement build- of the immortal Frank Sinatra keep comfortable as the brilliantly ing a home, a forum for Jiscussion on rolling through this beartfelt pai11ted walls of the Coffeehouse. and a canvass for e;xpression. All tribute. Tickets are on sale at the One of the painters, Brooke ofthese \rights\ are explicitly ex- Box Office (see number below) for Zeig,ennan, who has worked on the pr~-~~.ed in the pouse 's Constitu- $24.50, $26.50, and$29.50. walls consistently for the past two tion. and were further articulated in On Thursday, April22, 1999 at 8 wee.ks, expressed her dismay at the SAC report given last year. Qina Lasorsa scrubs wall duringa 11fght at the Co.ffehouse. PM, Proctor's Theater presents Hottse Manager Hope Arnoldt's If theme houses are denied the BruceHomsbyand hisband. This ann<Julicement. Arnoldt an- righttornakeauniquelivingexpe- three timeGrammy winner, began nouEJced at the house meeting last rience on campus, what is their his career in 1987 for \Best New Sunday that there has been a de- purpose? As a resident in the So- injustice.. dents; independent adults they Artist.\ The title cut from his de- cree from Residence Life: No More ciety for two years, I can honestly If you have questions, a desire maybe~ this line is drawn forthem but album, \The Way It Is\ was Wriiting On the Walls. say 1 feel like the p-ainting in the to see said artwork, or feel like ande:xpressiondies. Hopefultythe the most played song on Ameri- Residence life feltthatthe paint- halls is not only a unifying and painting, I am sure that someone painting and the drawing will not can radio in 1987, winning the ing~ and drawings had no place in wonderful thing, but a testament in the Coffeehouse would be de- stop. Its end marks the death of a ASCAP Song of the Year award. In a residence hall. Arnoldt argued to the power of art. Why are we lighted to give you a tour or a spirit ~fcreation and of free minds Keyboard Magazine's Reader's that the walls belonged to the S{)- denied the rightto make artwork a brush. Viva Ia Art. Viva the mind, at .a college which can often be Poll, Hornsby has won six years in ciety for three years. If future resi- art of our lives? If an thin on and viva the will of the student. described as \stifling~\ ~~ 2 ~~~~S~c~u~l-p_t_u_r_e_.~a~n~d~P~·~r~i~n~t=m~a~.~~.~.n~g~b~y~J~.~o~h-n-·~P~ •. ~o~o_r_ Hornsby released his first album, \The Way It Is,\ in April 1986. In the last eight years, Hornsby has released five more albums, \Scenes from the Southside\ (1988), \A Night on the Town\ ( 1990), \Har- bor Lights ( 1993), and \Hot House\ (1995). Known around the music industry as a collaborator, Hornsby has played over 70 records, includ- ing albums by Bob Dylan, Don Henley, the Grateful Dead, Bonnie Raitand Willie Nelson. In the sum- mer of 1998, Hornsby released his sixth album, \Spirit Trail.\ In addition to songwriting, re- cording and touring, Hornsby had the opportunity to be a part-time member of the Grateful Dead, tour- ing and performing over 100 con- certs from 1990 to 1992. In 1996, he was also part of the post-Grateful Dead \Further Festival\ tour. In 1994 Hornsby performed at Woodstock II, and in 1995 he played at the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame Opening Concert. Tickets for Bruce Hornsby, on Thursday, April 22 are $26.50, $24.50 and $19.50, Tickets are avaiJ .. able at Proctor's Box Office (346- 6204) and at all Ticketmaster loca- tions.

.,. ... ~ ~ - - .,. ... ... - - ......... ·- .. , - - - ....... .,.. ,. \\\ - .,. ... - - ... ,.. .... - - - .... - - .... '\' ·- ·- ~ - - .. \\' ... .... • .,. - - - 41- ... - - ... - ,.,. ... - .. ..,.I '\ -- - - -· ~· _, _, -- -- - ... • ........... -~ - - - - - ... ... - - ... - \' .. .. • - .. • .. • ... ~ - ,,.. .. '\\' - ~- .. ., ,.. ... .... ... fi ... - .. -. ~ ~ Arts & Entertainment C1rllllt,ttrmensi~ • April 8, 1999 • Page 11 I C·an't B.··. elieve I'm Not Butter . . By De ric Harrington StajfWrit(?r Well, l'm trying to do this col- umn more A&E friendly now, or else I'm going to be out .of here when it comes to the A&.E section of the paper ... then again, I hear that they're lo~;>king for features, so no matter what, the millions upon millions of people.,. still won'treadmyartide. That'sOK, I'm by no means discouraged ):,y this. The discouraging part comes when no matter h@w many times I hawk myself {Deric \Fly funky fresh\ Harrington) or my E-mail address (SlapyMcGee@aol.com), the amount of people that actually take thetime to write me, or to even say hi, .. well, are no~existent. But, I'm not letting this get me down, I've turned over a new leaf ofhappy here at Union, SO DON'T@#$! IT' UP! Whew ... anyw!ly, let's take a look at good ol' A&E, shall we? First off, I went to· the Ill Remem- bered' concert this past weekend. Let me just say that it was a won- derful show, although a few more fights than usual bro~e out. All I can say for advice for the show is, don't do jumping kicks on people ... they tend toget mad. Ill Remembered has a two-song tape out for $2. It's available at Music Shack in Albany, which is easily the ar.ea's best music store. Hmmm ... I'm sitting here listen- ing to the new Gwar album, \We Kill Everything.\ It's truly ... uhhh ... Gwar. I tbink that's the only way you can put it Give it a listen fora good la,Ligh, and a CO\.lple of memorable songs. .- Personally, I think,.when it comes to candy, there are really only a few ways to go. I thinK Gobstoppers are the stuff though. I mean, you get to eat them for a long time, and then, when you finally do get to the middle, it's full of even more This :M:onth At Coffeehouse By Gina LaSorsa StaffWriter This month, the Coffeehouse has a lot of activities and performances sched11led. Unfortunately, the post- ers announcing these events sel~ dom stay up long enough for people to see them. In an effort to make people aware of the good things the Coffeehouse has to of- fer, here is a list of some scheduled events: I. Tuesday, April13, 8:30PM~ \Dialogues on Race\ sporrsored by Peer Facilitators, followed by openmic. 2. Tuesday, April20, 8:30PM-- \Multicultural Night\ followed by open mic 3. Wednesday, April21, 7:00PM - Altllough Coffeehouse is usu- ally held on Tuesdays, UBGLAD will be coming hereon a Wednes- day to sponsor a workshop; bev- erages will be served as usual. 4. For the weeks to follow, tbe Coffeehouse is planning other vari- ous events, including perfor- mances by Mike Lewis '99andhis band, and the Garnet Minstrels. Once the weather becomes warm enough, the Coffeehouse intends on having Coffeehouse outside featuring a band of our choice. If you would like to be this band, please contact me at the number below. · We will be giving away tons of great prizes to the best band, so get your acts together. If you or someone you know would like to perform at the Cof- feehouse, please feel free to con- tact me atx5812. A&E's_FYI ·· , ·~· Witll. A&-E·, Ed.it6t: ·Kimberly Roh.back as a saiute to Union's new p~ofes~orand star of the VlliTn~\' theater, Professor Charles Professor Batson is currently lurnrldt10' t'n his second department Cabaret~ You mayre- h\\'\\li\\'\1~1n-~ fromlastterrn's rendi- Government Inspector, which Batson portrayed the Boris Abdulin. A&E wishes to salute this new brc~tes:sor's grand and successful L<>Hi-.rt\ to participate in a verytime and energy-demand~ aspect ofstudtmt life. Profes ... Batson spe~ds; on average~ hours a night, five nights a rehearsing for these produc- Part of this devotion;of course, \' .......... for a love of the the theater, hemadeveryclear howimpor- it is for professors to cotmeet students. think it is great that I can work. students and learn with them ·opposeq to simply teachin~ Professor Batson is playing a ,-neJmD4erofthe Kit Kat Club in this particular producti<m. Hespc;lndlSI hours along side the ~~\\'\'\''~~\' learning music and rehears dartce·steps. He has a very tive and encouraging·effect on student members ofthe cast · AstheA&EEditorifind it brilliant that a Professor, \'\'·\. focus here at Unionhappens to modem languages, takes such interest in the development performing arts bere at Union. would like to extend agiant+ ... .,, .... ,.-j you to Professor Batson and congratulations on his fine atthe Yulman. I hope that he 9an be an tion for other prof~ssors here Union to get out apd sing in choir, or play In the orchest@. the minds of many students~ · · fessors are not sin1ply · ..... l'<ln.,.rn s~rs, they are mentors and p·t ~op.t(;l whom we respect. . Professor Batson;s interest the theater program has not been an encouragir:tg sign in resurrection ofprofessot ... \ ,fi· ·\'\;rn~ and invoNerhent o.ri&ulipus; ~ woridetful brldg~::);l'etween •. dents and faculty.· ·1 bridge hope t¢ see continile.!() grqw •. candy goodness. I think more people should take a hint from Gobstoppers. I mean, layer after layer of people goodness!· Ithink I found a new slogan for world piece! In the least likely ofplaces, the Concordy (it's unlikely, be- cause, \Well let's face it, it's usually about7lt.2% people complaining, which causes more hate, not peace. Howeve.r, if we're talking about a piece ofpie, I think we're all game, right? No? Why, what's wrong with my pie? I baked it just for you, and you <lon't even want any? So much for world peace you uncar- ing reader ... now you've hurt my feelings). The lineup for the summer con- cert tour has been announced. Ozzfest99 is going to include the farewell tour of Black Sabbath. Also playing are Rob Zombie, Primus,Siayer, Fear Factory, Sys- tem of a <!own, and more. Tickets have already started going on sale for some places, so check it out. Has anyone else recently been bitten b)' rabid students complain- ing ab()ttt too many loose leaf chicken llunters in the Olin Cen- ter? N<)''l OK, I wasjust checking. This is a message because I know tl1ere are a lot of wrestling fans here on campus (sigh ... OK, I'm guilty as charged myself ... ). ECW is ccns idering running their next pay per view (Hardcore Heaven99) from Poughkeepsie. It is going tc be on the sixteenth of May, so keep an eye out for tick- ets, because ECW simply puts on the best snow of any wrestling pro- motion in the states today. Rehearsal for C!).baret keeps chugging along. Not only do I feel more limber (not bad too, I mean, for a stud like me to get more lim- ber, most people thought it was impossible), but with each passing day, the set comes along, and I g~t more aruious to see the show ... uhhh ... well, on tape. I'm in the show, sol 'm going to have to wait. But everyone in the cast has worked hard thus far, and we're all going to bust our one giant collec- tive butt to give you the show of the year. Holy moly ... I'mjustabout clone another article, and look at how much A&E goodness is packed inside this twinkie of an article. Impressive, no? If you see me around, don't be afraid, I don't bite ... wait, I take that back. Just shout a friendly \Hello Deric\ to me, and I'll be glad to yell back to you, \Hi person Idon'tknow their name, but they're kind enot~gh to show me that someone out ther:e reads my article!\ Or something to that extent. .. it aH gets really hazy after the \Hi Deric\ part, I think. Anyway, 'til next time, I remain Deric \I'm confused, did I just get jiggy with it?\ Harrington, remind- ing you to wear goulashes, be- cause your mom wants you to, or don't... because you don't have to. I'm just making a suggestion. T :\X A.!> VA:\ T A(; r n ·S 0 L l 1 T f 0 :\.S I· H () ,\1 T 1 ,\ t\ C H. E F UNFORTUNATE~ THIS IS WHERE PEOPLE ARE PUTI1NG TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS. E very year, a lot of people :make a huge mistake on their taxes. They wind up s~nding Uncle Sam money they could be saving for retirement. Fortunately, that's a mistake you can avoid with SRAs-tax-deferri;!d annuities from TIAA-CREF. SR.As not only ease your current tax bite, they offer an easy way to build retirement income -especially for the \extras\ that your pension and Social Security benefits may not cover. Because your contributions are made in pretalC dollars, you pay less in. taxes now. And since earnings on your SRAs are tax Ensu1ing the future for those who shape it.su deferred, your money works even harder for you. Today, we ofler other before- and after-tax financial solutions, including IRAs and mutual funds. They're backed by the same investment exper- tise, low expenses, and personal service that have made TIAA-CREF the choice of America's educational ancl research community. Why write off the chance for a more rewarding retirement? Stop by your benefits office or call us at 1800 842-2776 and find out how TIAA-CREF SRAs can help you enjoy happier returns. TiM-CR.£!' l..Ji-'l..ol and lnolitUJi®ol Suvim, I no. diotri\lu\\ ~ ettt&Seu• and. int<mlt in tho 1'lM Rod lloti!c \-\\'· p.., ma,.. .:omple\' inknnation. iTtdudill( .W..,.a...! ...,.-. c..JI i 800~..s. 6509,f.,.c;REF' mdMA.A a..! EmtcA<:oount ~.~U../1) cutl'uUy bdOt•.YO• u. .... or ....d mon.,.. 12198

Verdict Reached in Whitewater Trial McDougal Aquitted ofObstruction of Justice, Mistrial Declared for Two Other Counts. by Steplten Nemeth Staff Writer Another sagaofthe Wbitewater scandal ended Monday as long- time Clinton friend and confidant Susan McDougal was found not guilty .of obstruction of justice. This joy soon overtook the court- room shortly after the judge's rul- ing of a mistrial ontwocrirninal con- tempt counts after jurors said they were \hopelessly deadlocked\ on those charges. The defense team was over- joyed with the news and read the ruling as a repudiation of Indepen- dent Counsel Ken Starr. \If any- thing should put a stake through the heart of Kenneth Starr, this. should be it,\ said Mark Gerag,1s, McDougal's defense attorney. \This guy should pack up, should get out of here. I'm happy to be the one, along with Susan, to wish him a bon voyage. Getthelteck out of Arkansas and do it new.\ After the trial, McDougal hugged her fiance~ Pat Harris and Geragos. \I had a fair trial and my day in court and I thank you for that,\ she told the judge after the jury left the courtroom. McDougal's charges of one count of obstruction of justice and two counts of criminal con~empt stemmed from her refus~l to testify before a federal grand jury in I 996 and 1998. She claimed that Starr was out to \get\ her ~nd the Clintons and was afraid that Starr would indict her for perjtuy if she didn't _give testimony that would implicate the Clintons. Outside the courtroom, a happy and relieved Susan McDougal ex- pressed her gratitu<le and her un- certainty for the future. \I've been indicted since 1993,\ she said. \Til is is the first (lay that I haven't been indicted in years, so I'm a I ittle numb from it. I clon't know what else to do but be a dt:fendant.\ She also said that the important thing was that she got her day in court, nottne outcome ()fthe jury. \I got to tell everything that I had been wanting to ten fm years,\ .she said. The prosecut()r for the case, Mark Barrett, saidtlle outcome was \disappointing but hinted that a retrial is \obviousLy an option;' and expressed hope tbat prosecutors would decide within a couple of weeks whether to try ,McDougal a second time. The law requires a retrial to take place within I 0 weeks, Barrett said. Geragos said, he would like noth- ing better than to '\'retry Ken Starr agai11. They don 'l have the guts to retry this case aga.in because now we know where the bodies are bur- ied.\ News of the outcome reached the President. In a short statement re- leased by the Wbi1e House, the President expressed his happiness over the decision. \He wishes all the best for her and her family,\ the statement said. When asked. for Starr's opinion, a~rret:t said 1 \He respe,cts, .as we respect, the verdict of.the jury on t;haC' When aske(j if the trial in- deed proved to a repudiation of the Independent Coun~sel, he replied, \The United States, the Office of I ode pendent Couasel was not on trial. Whatever lar~er picture .... it's a free country, (the defense) can make whatever lar_ger picture they want.\ The verdict amlliiLstrial capped a six-we,ek trial whiicil finally saw Susan McDougal tale the stand and ans'-\'er '(}Uestiolls she previ- ouslyrefusec) to ai1$W\erin front of federal gtandjuty .. 'Titere was a bi- zarretw,i:st oncetlte1rialgotunder- way. She was ,illldi-cted on the charges after twic(':\l'efusing totes- tify before federal ~r!ln,djuries un,.. der the sllpervisioll· of Indepen- dent Collnsel Ken;nethStarr inves- tigating the fai 1edreal~.estate project known as Whitewate.-. McDougal and her late husb~lld fames were partners. in Whit~~ater with Presi- dent Bill Clinton,~hile he was still governor <>f Arkalllsas., and. First Lady Hillary R()dllanCiinton, while she was apartner in the Rose Law firm in Little Itodk..,ArkaJ;Isas. The bLzarre twist h~ppened last Friday when one~ftlle jurors, 47 year..,old tr:uck driv-er Michael Nance, br<lugh~ in !ltl Arkansas State Law book illt<nth.e courtroom. Deliberations weroe llalted and the FBI was called in t() investigate claims ofpossib1e j\J!ij'tampering. 'fhis was;,<[llickly~r()ppedas U.S. District Judge Georg~ Howard, Jr. ruled that Nance Wl!S using th!! book to helphim. llo'Ward ruled that Nan~!! was usingtl\e haw bookto \help him <leal ~iill certain prob- lem;withlt)gal cletinitions.\ Ho.ward also wemto11 to state at that time, \Tile C()lllrt is not per- SU!\ded tbflt tllere is a justifiable reason f()rexcusing himas ajuror in this case .. Tile ct>ull is persuaded there is 110 UIJfair ]Jrej.udice to ei- therside at this ti111~.\ The del iberatio1u began last Thursda.y as j UI'()VS centered around the main point of her de- fense -that slle declined to testify because she feared Independent Counsel Ken Starr would charge her with perjury unless she falsely implicated the Clintons in wrong- doing. · Additionally, many members of the jury had se11t questions to the judge. One <:entered on a defini- tion of \inno-cent reason\ -· a phrase included in the written in- structions f()r the jury. Another question as.ked whether there might have heeh an \Innocent rea- son\ forrerusing to testify, even if McDougal acted \willfully;' in vio.- lating a court order directing her to eooperatewi111 Starr's probe. The jurors also sent a third note inquiring whether they should take McDougal's state of mind into ac- countintohertwo previous refus- als to testify in front of federal grand juries in 1996 and 1998 in order to decide if she was guilty of criminal contempt. When Susan McDougal took the stand, she answered questions that !>he refused to answer for 2 Y2 years for Kenneth-Starr's proSe()U- tors. She !lad spent 18 months in jail for her fa.ilure to answer those pastquestions. In the trial she tes- tified that she never discussed a frau9ulent$3<JO,OQO loanwith Bill C)inton, and she di<l not believe that Clinton h.ad said \anything untruthful\ when he testified at her 1996 trial involving the loan, The loan had been the centerpiece of Starr's case against her. McDougal~s defense also got a boost when the judge allowed a Virginia woman, Julie Hiatt Steele, to testify that slle also had. been mistreated at the hands of Starr's prosecutors during her involve- ment with the Monica Lewinsky investigation, over the objections of the prosecutors. \Susan and I have been relent- lessly pursued by the Office ofln,.. dependent Counsel,:' site testified, claiming.she had been indicted be· cause she refusedto give false tes- timony against Clinton. In closing arguments, McDougal's attorney Mark Geragos mocked Whitewater pros- ecutors who testified they only wanted the truth from McDougal and were not out to get the Presi., dent. \It's something so offensive for them to say with a straight face they wanted to look to see if they could clear the president. How dumb do they think we are?\ he said. Prosecutors painted a, much dif- ferent picture of the situation and ofMcDougal. They characterized her as a lying, media-seeking woman who enjoyed th~ spotlight. \She craved the spotlight. She en- joyed the attention~ And that was probably her real reason for not· testify·ing, not those lame ex- cuses,\ Associate Independent Counsel Julie Myers told jurors, While the five-week trial proved . to. be quit~ :tumultuous, both ~si9e~ expre~secl hope. ~J)~t any additional J.itigation will be resolve<! shortly. After the trial, as prosecutors walked past, determined to strengthen any future cases, M~l=k Geragos summarizedthe trial. \The only way she was ever go,ing to get out the true story of what hap- pened was to do it in a courtroom, not the grand jury room.\. Israel Accused of Stealing Holocaust Reparations by HeatherCampbe,JI Staff Writer Israeli Holocaust surviv<Jrs are accusing Israel ofstealing repara- tions which were meant to compen- sate them for the suffering they en- dured at the hands of Nazi· Ger- many. Sunday they staged a protest by wearing yellow stars, similar to those worn by German Jews in Nazi Gennany. The protest was held on Sunday. because of the proxirn ity to Tuesday's Holocaust Remem- branceDay. The money in question is a 1953 German reparation that should have been used for the survivors rather than strengthening the weak internal structure of the young country. \The money was for the survi- vors, not for other people,\ said Y aakov Kfir oftheChildren of the Holocaust advocacy group. \We lost a lot of years and a lo1 of op- portunities.\ After Kfir' s family was killed in the Holocaust, he c11me to Israel as a child and joined the army at 18 because, \I had no where else to lay my head.\ In 1952, IsraelandGennanywere , activ-ely .negotiati11g reparations. As brae! struggled torecover from their War of lAdepe11dence, they also dealt with m<1ny immigrants from Europe, NorthAfricaand the reparations were_Jtcc~pted, and . _; Today, many survivors ate elcf- <use(l to rehabilitate sill'rvivors, as . erly and poor. Sunday's demon;. well as d~velopimgthe infrastruc- strato-rs said that the flourishing · ~tuwoftH;tJecQn()lliy_ Israel oftodaycould afford to give Approximately 3()(),000 survi- somethingback. vors live in Israel. lsr&el d:ispenses In the mid-1990's, an interim- \(The money was for the survivors, not.-:, for other people~, said Yaakov Kfir of the Children oftheHolocaustadvocacy · group. \ Middle East. The small Jewisll community that endured the massive influx was divided politically a.lid was a fledg- ling democracy. According to Le~i Eshkol, fonner Israeli Prime Minister, \The gov:.. ernrnent needed to redefine na- tional priorities. Ec()nomic str~ss was the main worry:~ Eshkol supported the repara- tions, even though there was strong opposition. This same oppo;ition was also calling for financial s1.1pport. The the reparations b<riied <Jn need. Reparati()ns are 111e;ant, in part, to cornpemsate ttte v-ic;tims of the Holocaust, ~s well as-restore con- fiscated wealth anclproperty. In 1953:, . ...vhen.[srael;:received the reparatie11 tnoney\ ai:JC1tLt 120,000 applied fat lt; tbtse v-ictims cur~ rently receive mywllere fi•om $410 to $820 arnonth. F.ew child sunriy~rs receive compensation, ;mel th.o.se who can1eto Israel after 1953 never had the opportunity (()a.ppl::yt() receive repatatioas. tional investigation was called for to examine tile actions of Swiss banks. In question was the resto- ration of Jewish assets seized by the Nazis an-<1 placed in Swiss banks. There''fas a possibility that Swiss banks clid not restore all of the seized as~ets to the correct owners. ln response, tile Swiss govern- ment, along with Swiss banks, es- tablished several fl:lnds meant. to provide aid for the poorer survi- vors of conce111ration camps, other victims of human rights ab~;~ses (ljke genocide), and othercatastrow phes. Germany paid$700 million to the state of Israel in reparati{)ns made to Ho.l9caust survivors. . Lawsuits against corporations· who employed Jews as slave labor- ers are expected to yiel~ even more ··money for Holocaust s11rvivors and their families. While Holocaust survivors feel that the 1953 reparation should have been used exclusively for survivors, some Israel-is feel the money was well spent. \I think Israel would hreve been sunk without that money. Then, there was no money 'for fuel, for food, or anything,\ said Y ehuda. Bauer, a professor and historian. \The state used that money in order to develop the Israeli economy and that benefited every- one, including the survi-vors,\ he said. Tuesday was Holocaust Remem- brance Day, or Yom Ha.:Shoah. Is- raelis, as well as Jewish people all over the wotld, paused to silently remember the six million Jews killed in the Holocaust. In Israel, restaurants, movie the- aters, and businesses were closed for the da.y of-remembrance~ Wor] Ever I can de all ofi1 close tt someh' Peter J triump \Grea1 barded refuge food a ment. How that h<1 mark c revert 1 too fre will no either 1 caust. 1 a spade tion in ent tha degree crime~ and sp2 for. In a 1 Today, author Ar AI The l with ot refugee eral R1 Maced< Herzegc Am1 Campm to help support

. ' ( .. : . ~ .,- \l I ,,,,. \''.~ .r 'VI. ld N ~· ' ) ~ .. ' ' . \ ~ (\ I - f f: • J IIi t j \ 1! ._, ..... ,, ... 1' t:- t .. wor ·. ews· . .. · · · · · · · Ql:rou.(tdrieusis • April15, 1999• Page 13 ' ·' •' · After Fifty Years, Genocide Continues by MiehaeiV.Daly Social Commentator Even withmy limitedmathskills, I can deduce that World War II and all ofifs horrible atrocities ended close to fifty-fuur years ago. Yet somehow, in the same week that Peter Jennings acknowleoges the triumphant achievements of this \Great Century,\ we are bom- barded with pictures of desolate refugees begging for scraps of food and decent, humane treat- ment. How is it possible that a. world that has seen innumerable land- mark discoveflies and inventions revert to the herrors that were all too frequent in the Holocaust. I will not profess to be an expert on either worlq history or the Holo- caust. I will, however, call a spade a spade. To deny that the situa- tion in Kosovo is anything differ- ent than genocide to the utmost degree is to debase every other crime against immanity that time and space do not allow discussion for. In a recent interview with USA Today, noted Ncible pri.ze .. winner, author and Professor Elie Wiesel A Commentary on the Parallels .Between the Atrocities of Past and Present adamantly expressed his opinions to- in ten second sound bites only ing under such authoritative rule. concer11:ing the situation in to be repeated later. Itseemsas.iftheseeminglyboring Kosovo; Wiesel, himselfa survi- Clearly, politi(al agendas of the and non-relative lessons learned in vor oftl1eNazi death camps, talked world have often, over time, come history class ring even truer today. about·lhe absolute horror and feel- to a headwitb tlte unjustified rnass Wiesel seems disillusioned. He ing ()f helplessness that he sees murdering ofselectedgroups. Still, states, \What happened to human and rea\ily relates to in the Alba- it seems that .this century has seen history, to memory?\ Wiesel also niail re:f~gees forced from their an incredible nlimber of murders comments that ''we haven't done homesbyYugolsav enough to edu- p r e s. i d e n t cateour genera- Milosevi<:. tion.\ What he Healsostressed \Clea:rly political agendtls of misses is that th() irnp()rtant role education at thathistoryplaysin the world h:ave o'ten over time any level re- our resp()nse as a · '.Ill- ·' · · ' quires willing- w?rldt<Jtltese.situ- :. C011te /0 Q heQ'd With /he uniusti- ness. By read'- atlons. F'or Wiesel, · · \.1 ing the paper who als() gave a ·ji d . · . . . ,,.1 • . a-F l .\'i J· everynightand lecture on Monday le . maSS muruerl.ng OJ Se ec,e watclling the eve. ~in g. at th.e •. g•o·urns· \ news it is evi- WhJte lhuse, 1f • 1 ' r • dent that anytllin~ is to be America is gained from the'-----------.-------------------' struggling wiih past, \'Ii is a vital lesson: If evil committed under the euphemism of the idea that this war must be gains. ~()VIer, you .must stop it.\ \ethnic cleansing.\ Are people fought. Debates are held nightly Where; then, did the world cease really that jaded that the facts and on the numerous cable snows as to become a student of the past? figures that' tell tile horrible tale of Rece11t years have seen countries the Holocaust and now Kosovo such as R.wanda, Bosnia and oth- mean nothing? One would think ets fall u11der the same spell that that in a modem society, with glb- Nazi €3emtany cast for too many · hal interdependence at an all-time years .ill World War U. Intentions high, people wo11Jd be a littfe more to never allow such tragedies to motivated to protect, at the very occur again are heard- not listened · least express C()ncem forthose liv- so-called experts express their per- sonal opinions (see agendas) as to the merits ofNA TO involvement in Kosovo. Too often the fact that hundred.s of thousands of Albaninansare homeless :because of their religion is glazedover. Perhaps, as Wiesel sugg~sts, the fault lies within the educati{)n sys- teln. I thi11k not. Every year at Union one of the most popular classes is the History ofthe Holo- caust. Logic would suggest that with such an annual high enro11- ment and a formidable teacller that students ar~ taking the class out of direct interest of the subject. Classes mu~Ch like the one offered here at Union have been taking place at institutions all over the world since :the end ofWor 1d War II. The m-essage is there; at en~; time in the history of the world people were killed for outrageous claims often prophesized by gov- ernments. The message is also there that such atrociiies can easily occur again. And .still the world watches as Saddam Hussein chases the Kurds out oflraq, and Milosevic,s army terrifyingly and eerily reen- acts the Ho 1ocaust. How can Time Magazine idolize the greatest minds of the ceatury, telling thest()ry ofthe best inven- tions, the s1ruggles of inventors when the real story ofthis century clearly deals with the repeating actions long thought to be gone forever after the defeat of the Na- zis? Amnesty International seeks Student Help for \Care for Kosovo'' Drive fundclri-ve. half million have now fled the via- Due to the upheaval, the major- by Susanna Ryan -Duri11.g the week of April 19 lence in Koso\ot<J Macedonia, AI- ity arrive with nothing, reliant on Amnesty International through· 23there wilhlso be a table bani a, Montenegro, and Bosnia- aid for their basic needs. · ·. · •· · setup i11tbeReamerCampus Cen- Herzegovina. · ·Some ofthe refugees' burden is The R~d·t;rbS'S;•:rn··cdiijUnctidd·' ter'A:trium·ifyouw6uldlik:etoplace ·These victirns of ethnic cleans- ·!Seing relieved through ration with other agencies; is assisting donation in the.\Care for Kosovo ing are arriving t~ refuge without tbpplements, blankets and mat- refugees from Kosovo in the Fed- Can.\ shelter, clothin!l or food. A vet- tresses for those that are living in era I Repubric of Yugoslavia, You are also welcome to make eran of relief efforts reports on the centers and shelters for the dis- Macedonia; Albania, and Bosnia- checks ()Ut to the Red Cross for situation, \It's as had as I've ever placed. Herzegovina. this effort> which you will receive a seen in terms of sheer numbers. lfl The agency is also coordinating Amnesty ·rnternational and tax dedt1ction for. had 24 hours a <lay and unlimited with others at the camp to imple- Campus Action arenowaskingyou The cl'isis in Kosovo continues money, it woalclstill be a long time menting health, hygiene and water to help them in this endeavor by todeteilaratewhiletheflowofrefu- before we got on top of what and sanitation projects. Aftertheir sands have (}een searching for rela- tives. The RedCross is helpingto ~:e­ unite these pe()ple, the majority of whom are women, elderly, and chil- dren through their establishedlran- sit camps. Thank you for your time and consideratioll,as I am sure the refu- gees would be very grateful as well. If you have any questions please feel free to contact Susanna Ryan at 388-5709 or Professor Ted ~~~~o~u~r~\~C~a~re~fi~o~r~K~o~so~v~o~ Aprill999 Mon 'fue Thu NEW AT THE RATHSKElLAR: '*FREE SOUTH PARK PINBALL **ICE COLD SLUSHY Fri COURSE SUNDAY, APRIL 18 THROUGH TUESDAY, APRIL 13 SIGN UP ATCHET'S WEDNESDAY OR THURSDAY BETWEEN 8PM AND 12AM, ON FRIDA YBETWEEN 4PMAND7PM LIMITED SEATING AVAILABLE. MUST PRE-REGISTER ANDPRE-PAY COST IS $30 PER PERSON PRESENTED BY RITA STAPF AND CHET' S

,..,..,... ,.,.. .,,...,,...,,.,..~\ \'\''\' .,.,. __ ,. ,..,. -\.~ ... .,. .. .,,..,._,. ~ ........ - .... ~,.. '\'\\'\\'\ \ ... ,.. .... ...- ~,...,,. ,._,..,. .. -.- ... n--v ..... ,_..,._...,..,..,.,. ________ \\'t_,...,..,.,...,.,.. ____ ,.. ________ ...,...,.,.,.-.... -ty•'\'\\' Page 1 4• April 15, 1999 • aJ.nnc.nr~ie:usi~ by Victoria Ha-rgreaves Science and Techrzology Editor Nausea, gaseousness, cramps, bloating, and diarrhea. These seemingly harmless symptoms are often associated with under- cooked meat, the flu, or nervous- ness, but they may l>e the warning signs of a more serious condition: lactose intolerance. Lactose intol- erance, by definitioll, is the inabil- ity to produce enou.gh of the en- zyme lactase to degrade lactose, a sugar in milk. Approximately 40 million Americans are afflicted with this condition. Scientists estimate that 75% of Americans d<> not produce enough lactase and, as a result, have or will have lactose intoler- an~e. Some ethnidmdracial groups tend to have more cases statisti- cally. For example,. upto75%of all African-Americans and Native Americans, up to 90% of Asian-Americans, and a roxi- Science & Technology Lactose Intolerance mately 2'()% of Caucasians are lactose intolerant. Although the severity oflactose intolerance varies from person to person, symptoms typicaUy begin to manifest themselves between half an hour and two hours after consumption of the offending food. Some people wllo have less severe lactose intolerance can drink several glasses of milk with- out feelirtg any adverse effects while others who are severely lac- tose intolerant have discomfort after eating a slice of bread con- taining lactose by-products. Most lactose intolerant people, however, are able t<l digest at least small amounts oflactose. Although lac- tose is a sugar in milk, it can also be found in small quantities in some breads, soups, sauces, mar- garine, salad dressings, ·cakes, and even me&cations., Lactose intolerance, in most cases, is genetic. Scientists believe that if a cllild inherits the ene to stop production of lactase from both of his parents, that child will be lactose intolerant too. Children are rarely born la.ct<.>se intole:mnt. intolerance, can result from a~is­ ease or a dn.tg treatment and may be reversible. Some doctors believe that, over r===============::::::::==-t time, the elimination oflactose &om www .lactoseintolerancecure.com More commonly, people develop it as they grow. After age two, t:ile body naturally produc;es less lac- tase. Primary acquired lactose in- tolerance is genetic a11d the most common form. The less common form, seconda · a diet can actually reverse lactose intolerance. Doctors believe 1ltis may be poss-ible because tile in- testine where lactase is produ~ed is no longer disrupted; however, they also warn that the total elimi- ;. nation of lactose from the.ctietmay · cause more harm than good to the intestine. While no cure currently exists · for lactose intolerance, there are several effective over-the-counter treatments ·such as liquid drops that reduce the lactose ofmilkan.d chewable tablets made of lactase that facilitate lactose digestion. These treatments do not cause th.:e body to produce more lactase, !Jut rather lessen the severity of the symptoms. For those who have mild case~ of lactose intolerance, a diet void ofmilk and milk by-procl· . Science &; Technology ucts such as whey can curb .al1 symptoms. While those with severe lactose intolerance may be forced to elimi- nate lactose completely from their diets, it is important for them to remember not to eHminate calcium as well. Calcium is vital i.n building and maintaining strong, healthy bones and teeth and preventing os~ teoporosis. Bro.ccoli, kale, collard greens, oysters,. sardines, shrimp, and some forms of tofu have high calcium t:ontents but no lactose and are good ·for those who are highly lactose intolerant. Sources: www .geoeities.com/Paries/ www .lactoseintolernncecure.cQm www .montrose-clinic.or:g/edu- cation/nutr/lactose.htm /www .niddk.nih.gov /health/ di- gest/pu bs/Jactose www .nih .gog/health/ digest/ pubs/lactose/lactose.htni The Technology of a Copy Machine Health Insurance by Jeffrey A1.1sfeld Staff Writer This article is in response to a reader's request to learn about the inner workings ofa xerox mach in e. The best way to explain how this machine works is to begin with the page to be copied. Everybody knows you put the page on the glass window, and press the print button. If you have ever had the guts to watch what happens next, you will have seen il thin bright light scan the length of the win~ dow. The thin bright light is called the exposure lamp; the lamp illumi- nates the image to aid in the image refraction process. The image is refracted by the exposure lamp. The image reflects off ofthe glass window and into a matrix of mirrors that guides the image to the drum unit. The drum is, in most cases, cyl:indrical in shape and can become electrically charged. The drum rotates and the pri- mary Corona Charger makes the drum's surface positive. As the refracted image strikes the drum surface, th{) whiter light desensi- tizes the drum's uniform positive charge and the image is electrically copied to the drum surface. As the drum rotates further, it passes by the toner. Toner is a fine black powder that , resides in tile developer toner unit and is electrically attracted to the sensitized areas on the drum. The drum contilmes to rotat-e until the sensitized region of the drum is fac- ing downward and it is here that the drum ex.periences the negative force field of the Transfer Corona. This uniform negative field draws tbe toner away from the drum unit. The paper contains the C<>pied image and stops the toner from collecting on the Transfer Corona by essentially getting in the middle of the drum unit and the Transfer Corona. As a. result, the toner is collected on the paper. TI1e origi- nal image h~Es now been copied to another she~1 of paper. In the drawing, the pap~r is first fed though a registration roller. The mller ensures that tile begin- ning of the image on the drum and the top of the copied page are po- sitioned correctly. The last process 011 the drum is · .to clean it of excess ·toner. The cleaning blade unit ac:complisbes this process and the excess toner is stored in a waste container. This completes the processes on the drum for one copy. Tile drum can now have another image copied to the surface. The toner on the copied page is not completely pennanent so tile copied page is fed thro11gh a C()m- bination of heat presstue and sili- con-based oil to make the image Affordable Pilotocopy, Inc. by Steve Ayers Contributing Writer After my brother graduated from college last June, health insurallce was the last thing on his mind. At the end ofthe summer, he was get- ting married and then going to Nepal for a year. It was not u11til three weeks before this trip that 1Je discovered he had been dropped from our parents' insurance policy and needed new health insurance. Loss of health insurance is ac- tually a very common problem f-()r graduating college students. In a few months, many graduating se- niors wiH be left without coverage for the m<>nths between gtaduatio11 and· new jobs in the fall. In fact~ this is just one of the many les- sons which the world of health ill- surance has in store for the cO'I- lege student. Most insurance plans stop.coverage for minors after graduation, and many school plans also stop coverage. lt is possible to obtain insurance from student plans specifically designed forth is or by continuation of school pol i· cies or parent policies. This can be expensive, with pre- miums for minimal coverage cost· ing as much as several hundred dollars a month. Though finding a good plan well before graduation is required~ insurance is probab~y the last thing on the minds ofm(:)st seniors. Many will go without any coverage for the summer, leaving themselves <>pen to medical calam- perrnanent on the page. The page ity, in which case Medicaid would is then fed outside the copier and be their only form of insurance. joins the information that ca11 be Manycompanies will offer hea:ltti coined \hot offthe presses.\ care plans .as part of an employ- Please note that only the basic men't package. These plans may inner workings of a copy machine have good coverage, but they are were described in this article. Spe- still dramatically overpriced be- cific copiercomponentsand!orpro- cause the premiums are not risk- cesses may have different 11antes adjusted. Unlike life insurance, associated with them. little consideration is given to tlle Further details, questions, and probability that an individual will C()mments can be sent to get sick when setting insuran-ce aufeldj@vu.union.edu. We like· premiums.Ageandgenderarethe hearing from our readers; especially . only factors used to adjust premi- when they have reqaests for tech- urns, accounting for only ab()ut l1()logy articles. 20%ofrisk. Though a plan may offer good coverage, it might not appear to be such a good deal when you consider that a computerprogram- merweuld pay the same premiums . as a worker in asbestos cleanup. The excess premiums often do not end up paying for health care in less fortunate populations. It is typical.(or insurance companies to divide populations into separate plans based on risk, forcing high- risk patients into plans with poorer service. It is likely that college graduates will pay more than they receive in benefits, and the differ- ence will be made up in corporate profit. These problems are not limited to graduating seniors. Many in- surers provide coverage for only a small number of designated medi- cal facilities in a geographic area. If a student required special treat- ment, he/she would need to go home. School plans typically don't provide coverage for students during summer terms, and some programs stop coverage for chil- dren over the age of twenty. It was estimated that in 1997, II% of col- lege students had no health insur- ance. It is unfortunate that graduat- ing seniors will have to deal with these tricky issues immediately after graduation. The best solu- tions for these problems would require insurance companies to be less profit-driven, government to become more efficient, or for people to stay healthy. Each of these possibilities seems equally unlikely. The best strategy of the college student is to buy insurance at its inflated price and hope for health. For now, it is better to be overcharged than uninsured. Sources: Siwolop, Sana. ''Putting Aside the Books but Keeping the Insur- ance.\ New York Times. 2/16/ 1997:3. ' Kuttner, Robert. \The Risk Ad- justment Debate.\ The New En- gland Journal of Medicine. 12/24/ 1998:1952-1956.

Page 14• April15, 1999 • <lion.cnrl'riensis . Science & Technology by Victoria Hargrca ves Science and Technology Editor Nausea, gaseollSness, cramps, bloating, and diarrhea. These seemingly harmless symptoms are often associated with under- cooked meat, the flu, or nervous- ness, but they may be the warning signs of a more serious conditiom: lactose intolerance. Lactose intol- erance, by definition, is the inabil- ity to produce enough of the en- zyme lactase to degrade lactose, a sugar in milk. Approximately 40 million Americans are afflicted with this condition. Scientists estimate that 75% of Americans do not produce enough lactase and, as a result, have or will have lactose intoler- ~m~e. Some ethnid.nd racial groups tend to have more cases statisti- cally. For example~ up to 75%of all African-Americans aJ,d t\ative Americans, up to 90% of Asian-Americans, and a roxi- Science & Technology Lactose Intolerance mately 20% of Caucasians are lactose intolerant. Although the severity of lactose intolerance varies from person to person, symptoms typically begin to manifest themselves between half an hour and two homrs after consumption of the offending food. Some people who have less severe lactose intolerance can drink several glasses of milk with- out feeling any adverse effects while others who are severely lac- tose intolerant have discomfort after eating a slice of bread con- taining lactose by-products. Most lactose intolerant people, however, are able to digest at least SJillall amounts of lactose. Although lac- tose is a sugar in milk, it can also be found in small quantities in some breads, soups, sauces, mar- garine, salad dressings, cakes, and eve11 medication~. Lactose intolerance, in most cases, is genetic. Scientists believe that if a child inherits the ene to stop prodtlction etf lactase from both of his parents' that child wm be lactose intolerant too. Children are rarely bona lactose intolerant. www. lactoseintakrancecure.com More commonly,)Je&ple develop it as they grow. Afte-r age two, the body naturally produces less lac- tase. Primary acqllli red lactose in- tolerance is genetic and the most common form. Tme less common form, secondar intolerance, can resu;Jt from a dis- ease or a drug treatment and may be reversible. Some doctors believe that, over time, the elimination oflactose from a diet can actuaHy reverse lactose intolerance. Doctors believe this may be possible because the in- testiNe where lac~ase is produced is no longer disrupted; however, they also warn that the total elimi- nation oflactose from the diet may cause more hann than good to the intestine. While no cure currently exists for lactose intolerance, there are several effective over-the-counter treatments such as liquid drops that reduce the lactose of milk and chewable tablets made of lactase that facilitate lactose digestion. These treatments do not cause the body to produce more lactase, but rather lessen the severity of the symptoms. For those who have mild cases oflactose intolerance, a diet void of milk and milk by-prod- ucts such as whey can curb all symptoms. While those with severe lactose intolerancemay be forced to elimi- nate lactose completely from their diets, it is im.portant for them to remember not to eliminate calcium as well. Calcium is vital in building and maintai,liling strong, healthy bones and teeth and preventing os- teoporosis. Broccoli, kale, coHard greens, oysters, sardines, shrimp, and some forms of tofu have bigh calcium contents but no lactose and are good for those who are highly lact<Jse intolerant. Sources: www .geocities.com/Paries/ wvvw .lact<Jseintolerancecure.com www .montrose-clinic.org/edu- cation/nutr/lactose.htm /www.niddk.nih.gov/health/di- gest/pubs/Iactose www .nih. gog/health/ digest/ ub s/lactose/lactose .htm The Technology of a Copy Machine Health Insurance by Jeffrey Ausfeld Staff Writer This miicle is in response to a reader's request to learn about the innerworkingsofaxerox machine. The best way to explain how this machine WDrks is to begin with the page to be copied. Everybody knows you put the page on the glass window, and press the print button. If you have ever had the guts to watch what happens next, you will have seen a thin bright light scan the length of the win- dow. The thin !>right light is called the exposure lamp; the lamp il lumi- nates the image to aid in the image refraction process. The image is refracted by the exposure lamp. The image reflects offofthe glass window and into a matrix of mirrors that guides the image to the drum unit. The drum is, in most cases, cylindrical in shape and can become electrically charged. The drum rotates and the pri- mary Corona Charger makes the drum's surface positive. As the refracted image strikes the drum surface, the whiter light desensi- tizes the drum's uniform positive charge and the image is electrically copied to the drum surface. As the drum rotates further, it passes by the toner. Toner is a fine black powder that resides in the developer toner unit and is electrically attracted to the sensitized areas on the drum. The drum continues to rotate until the sensitized region of the drum is fac- ing downward and it is here that the drum experiences the negative force field of the Transfer Corona. This t:miforrn negative field draws the toner away from the drum unit. The paper contains the copied image and stops the toner from collecting on the Transfer Corona by essentially getting in the middle of the drum unit and the Transfer Corona. As a result, the toner is collected on the paper. The origi- nal image has now been copied to another sheet of paper. In the drawing, the paper is first fed though a registration roller. The roller ensures that the begin- ning of the image on the drum and the top of the copied page are po- sitioned correctly. The last process 011 the drum is to clean it of excess tor er. The cleaning blade unit accomplishes this process and tile excess toner is stored in a waste Co()ntainer. This completes the pro()cesses on the drum for one copy. The drum can now have another iirn<!.ge copied to the surface. The toner on the C()pied page is not completely permanent so the copied page is fed tlarough a com- bination of heat pressure and sili- con-based oil to mc.ke the image Affordable Ph0otocopy, Inc. permanent on the pag;e. The page is then fed outside the copier and joins the information that can be coined \hot off the prresses.\ Please note that OJJ!y the basic inner workings of a .copy machine were described in this article. Spe- cific copier compone;nts and/or pro- cesses may have dif~rent names associated with them. Further details, qu-estions, and comments can IJe sent to aufeldj@vu.union.etlu. We like hearing from our readlers~ especially when they have reque:sts for tech- nology articles. by Steve Ayers Contributing Writer After my brother graduated from college last June, health insurance was the last thing on his mind. At the end of the summer, he was get- ting married and then going to Nepal for a year. It was not until three weeks before this trip that he discovered he had been dropped from our parents' insurance policy and needed new health insurance. Loss of health insurance is ac- tually a very common problem for graduating college students. In a few months, many graduating se- niors will be left without coverage for the months between graduation and new jobs in the fall. In fact, this is just one of the many les- sons which the world of health in- surance has in store for the col- lege student. Most insurance plans stop coverage for minors after graduation, and many school plans also stop coverage. It is possible to obtain insurance from student plans specifically designed for this or by continuation of school poli- cies or parent policies. This can be expensive, with pre- miums for minimal coverage cost- ing as much as several hundred dollars a month. Though finding a good plan well before graduation is required, insurance is probably the last thing on the minds of most seniors. Many will go without any coverage for the summer, leaving themselves open to medical calam- ity, in which case Medicaid would betheironly form ofinsurance. Many companies will offer health care plans as part of an employ- ment package. These plans may have good coverage, but they are still dramatically o\Verpriced be- cause the premiums are not risk- adjusted. Unlike life insurance, little consideration is given to the probability that an individual will get sick when setting insurance premiums. Age and gender are the only factors used to adjust premi- ums, accounting for only about 20%ofrisk. Though a plan may offer good coverage, it might not appear to be such a .good deal when you consider that a computer program- mer would pay the same premiums as a worker in asbestos cleanup. The excess premiums often do not end up paying for health care in less fortunate populations. It is typical for insurance companies to divide populations into separate plans based ()n risk, forcing high- risk patients into plans with poorer service. It is likely that college graduates will pay more than they receive in benefits, and the differ- ence wil I be tnade up in corporate profit. These prob I ems are not limited to graduating seniors. Many in- surers provi<le coverage for only a small number of designated medi- cal facilities in a geographic area. If a student required special treat- ment, he/she would need to go home. School plans typically don't provide coverage for students during summer terms, and some programs stop coverage for chi 1- dren over the age of twenty. It was estimatedthatin 1997, ll%ofcol- lege students had no health insur- ance. It is unfortunate that graduat- ing seniors wi II have to deal with these tricky issues immediately after graduation. The best solu- tions for these problems would require insurance companies to be less profit-driven, government to become more efficient, or for people to stay healthy. Each of these possibilities seems equally unlikely. The best strategy of the college studeut is to buy insurance at its inflated price and hope for health. For now, it is better to be overcharged than uninsured. Sources: Siwolop, Sana. \Putting Aside the Books but Keeping the Insur- ance.\ New York Times. 21161 1997:3. Kuttner, Robert. \The Risk Ad- justment Debate.\ The New En- gland Journal of Medicine. I 2/24/ 1998:1952-1956.

b .aiJ ;tose !ifni- their m to ;ium :and ()nes os- llard imp, iligh tose · are cQrn ~du- t/di- est/ e ood r to you am- nns I Up. not ~ in t is sto :ate gh- >rer ~ge 1ey fer- ·ate ted in- nly :di- ea. :at- go n't 1ts me Iil- IaS ol- llf- at- ith :ly lu- lld be to 'or of ly ile ce or :,e ie r- 5/ i- '1- 4-/ vou Have setter tHinGs·to oo tHan. watcH tHe BRass grow .. like getting ahead in your eollege career. MCC Summer S1E:lssions. They·n help yotJ f9'el relaxed all year long.·Fr:n .details, catl Monroe Community College. jn Rochester at 8001724-SUMMER, or visit WIN'.IV.monroece.edu. MtONfOE COMmUniTY COLLeGe Sper1rJ: your summer doing something smarter. l ~ • • • 'I ~ < ' ' • :!; ~ , ' RITE AID Photo Processing Go to RITE AID for All of Your Photo Needs RITE AID is located on Van Franken Avenue (518) 382-3304 Skidmore College Presents ... of ~ Saturday Night Live Saturday, April 17en Skidmore College Saratoga Springs., NY Sport and Recreation Center For Tickets Call TICKETMASTER at (518) 476-1000 Admission Only $15 Doors Open at 8:3 () PM Show Begins 9:oo~PM ·; .. ~~· Someone Ot:)Cf:? said a ~ittle knowfedge is a -d,angerous thi11g. Hudson Valley Community College's summ~r courses are designed to make you dangerous- designed to give you the knowledge you need to win in the high-tech, information-richr globally competitive world. · The choice is simple- get ahead this summer. Every one <~i Hudson Valley'> more than 300 summer C()urses - everything from Electronics or Engineering to Anatomy ()f liberal Arts- gives you credits to take to any one ,(Jtflundreds oi ooll~ges nationally. And, oor <:redits <.:ost less. How's that for dangerous! Ca II today t() learn more. HUDSON VAllEY COMMUNITY COLLEGE TR0\' 1 NEW YORK 518-270-HVCC WWW. H~CC.£DU 5 U M MER $ E S S I 0 N S BEGIN M A ?f 2 4 AND. JULY 6· Part ofthe State!! Universfty ol New York Sporuored by Rensselaer County Hudsort Valley Ccmmunlty Cofiege does nor discrimln~ Gl) lfte basis of age, 8fmder, rac:e, ethnlc:lr,; national OtiSirt, tfligion, disablins conditfcn or sexual ori(lntation.

logy rb all . ctose !limi- their ~m to cium ; os- •Hard ·imp, high ;tose J are .com edu- 1/di- ;est/ e ~ood 1r to you ·am- urns nup. >not ·e in It is !s to rate igh- orer ege hey fer- rate ited m- ln[y edi- rea. ~at- go m't nts me fl.j [- ;vas :o[- ur- :at- ·ith ely lu- 11d be to ~or of lly he de Jr- 6/ d- n- 41 YOU Have BettEr tHinGS to DO tHan watcH tHe GRass grow. like getting ahead rn your college career. MCC Summer Sessrons. They'll t1elp )IOI.J feel relaxed all year long. For details, call Monroe Community College m Rf>(;.hester at 800/724-SUMMER, or visit www.monroecc.edu . MONrOE COMmUniTY COLLeGe Spend yotJr sumrner <Iaing somet11ing smarter. RITE AID Photo Processing Go to RITE AID for All of Your Photo Needs RITE AID is located on Van Fran}( en Avenue (518) 382-3304 Skidmore College Presents ... of ~ Saturday Night Live Saturday, April 17th Skidmore College Saratoga Springs, NY Sport and Recreation Center For Tickets Call TICKETMASTER at (518) 476-1000 Admission Only $15 Doors Open at 8;30 PM Show Begins 9:00PM Someone once said a littte knowledge is a dangerous thing. Hudson Valley Community College's summer courses are designed to make you dangerous - designed to give you the kr11 ... wledge you neffl to win ~n the high~tech, information-rich, globally competitive world. The choice is simple- get ahead this summer. Every one of Hudson Valley's more than 300 summer courses - everything from Electronics or Engineering to Anatomy or liberal Arts - gives you credits to take to any one of hundreds of coll~ges nationally. And, our credits cost less. HoW's that for dangerous! Ca II t.OOay to learn more. Part of the State Univel'Sity of New York HUDSON VALlEY COMMUNITY COLLEGE TROV, NEW YORK 518-270·HVCC WWW, HVCC.EDU Spoo.sored by Rensselaer County l-ludson Valley Community CCllleqe does nor disc:rimin811! on the ba>is of age, f)€nder, race, elllniciry, oatlonal origirt, r(l/igion, dl$8hling com:Jition or sexual orientatiOl'l.

' ' ~ t- \' t \ ~ t ! ' lr ' ~\ t I ;. s 1 • j Page 16 Let's see ... what to write about? I've narrowed ,it down to two op- tions: The Koso'\losituation, or the Bike cops. Hmmm ... so what's the deal with those Biking Aveng- ers of Crirn e? Are .tiley strapped? Do they come equipped with their own G.I. Joe walkie-talkies? Sorry if someone else has writ- ten about this tQpic this week. Y ol!l see, I have no idea what the other fine writers ofthis 1 publication will write about, but there isn't much going on here,. a11d l can almost guarantee that someone else will mention this.. Back to the bike- guys. I was informed that the rea- son their jobs ha'Ve been created was to surprise the hell out of po- tential wrongdoers. Now, we aH agree that the ma- jurity of muggings and rapes hap- pen at night, right? So what mo- ron gave them neon-yellow outfits that are brighter than a full moon? It's pretty hard to pop out of the bushes and catch someone in the act if you are glowing in the dark. Here's a possible monologue by a Union perpetrator for Fox's \World's Easiest Crimes, \Weill was going to stick my finger in my jacket and threaten this white-hat frat boy with a fake gun. But far away in the distance I saw an ap- proaching yellow figure with re- flectors on his tricycle. Time was crucial. So I decided to whack the kid in that spot on the neck that knocks one unconscious. I grabbed his wallet, llis room key, the keys to his Lincoln Navigator, and threw some thumbtacks on the ground, just in case the I 0 mph Bikeman decided to follow me. Then I dro'Ve away at the speed of light in the Navigator. It was the easiest \job\ of my life. Thank you Fox forthis Ol>portunityto ex- press my story on national televi- ics. • wait...) and my mama. Hey mama!\ 7. Extending classes into July. Maybe this idea is just a ploy to (To avoid obtaining those annCJy- suck in those perennial \'prospec- ing summer internships) tive students.\ (Who, bytheway, 6. A nearby bar that serv.es matter more to the school than us adults and minors, too. .(Oh CURRENT students. But that is a wait. .. ) topic for another day.) 5. A eombination ofprofess<Jrs \Oh yes Mr. and Mrs. and drug-dealers. {Self-explana- Security is of the utmost impor- tory) tance at Union. Just recently, we 4. An Upperclass worker who initiated a Bike-cop program. It spits in your face when you drop doubles as an escort because we your tray off. (Eliminating the Ee- installed PEGS on the rear wheels cessity of the Drip} ofthe bicycles. When our men are 3. An idol that :looks like a very not busy fighting crime, they let small version ofthe Nott. (Hence people reach around their waists making it easier to do a Nottrun and take them home. It ki'lls two and paint the idol, all at once. With birds with one stone, and it lets our the N ott gone, the school could automobile-operating security take away all that bothersome force worry about more important green stuff (grass?!) and put up crimes .. .I ike parking tickets. Give some necessary It andi capped- us your money?\ But this can't parking spots.) be true, because anyone I saw who 2. A combined school president had a Union folder in their hands, and lying politician. (Oh wait. .. ) was ranking on them as well. l. A race of hermaphroditic, This whole situation reeks of closed-minded, preppie-prin- cost-cutbacks. Granted that the cesses. (Eliminates the need for bikers aren't actually escort guys, having Fraternities AND Sor()Fi- the reason for their existence is to ties, simultaneously) use the optimal amount of man- I received a letter this week. power for Union by delegating Letters can be sent to Box#0040 certain responsibilities to a limited or aronowm2@union.edu. base. Two jobs at once. \Dear Matt, I really like to kill In light of my cost-efficiency animals. Then I like to dispose of theory I came up with yet another _. their bod·ies in really creati-ve top ten list. ways. I started with birds md gradually worked my way up. Last Top Ten Combinations That night I soaked a dog in lighter fl11id Would Save Union (and and set it on fire. It really stu11k students) Money 10. A Career Development Cen- ter/welfare clinic for Liberal Arts grads. 9. A tanning salon/plastic sur· gery cli11ic. · 8. A building that hollses (and cramps) two closely related depart- ments: Psychology and Mathemat- up my room. I know that it's all just good old fun, but do you thi11k it might develop into an obsessio11? Or worse, I fear that animals will no longer challenge me and I may move up to humans. Well, I guess I'll see ya around campus. Signed, Upton 0. Good.\ Maybe the Bike-a-cops weren't such a bad idea ... Hit Me with. Your Best Shot My event was the balance beam. In high school I was a gymnast, blessed more with tl\e gift of flex- . ibility than strength. I faltered at .. pl!sll-ups and missed points be- cause I could never hold my hand- stands for long enough. While aU the oth.er girls were watching their arms and legs tone andha.rden with each day'spractice, Inoticedmine we11e still comparablet()· wet, .spa- ghetti noodles. I guess it never seemed to bother me l didn't con- sider being \strong'' a necessary trait. Dllring sets of crunches, I'd of- . ten go a little slower iltan the rest of the team so I wouldn't have to do as many. I ·never did my push- ups in proper form and found my- self out of breath after running just a mile. I supwClse I didn't realize that I was cheating myself out of being in shape; 1 was failing; to condi- tion my body and wasting my coach's time by not p11shing my- selfto the limit. I didn't have will power or the drive to eJ(cel at the sport: I just thought that since 1 coald do a split or co11tort myself in different ways, I didn't have to be muscular.· It is strange how rnuclt the lluman body c:an accom- plishwhen given the e.ha11ce. Back then I didn't afford myself the con- fidence to believe that I actually could be strong. I regret that. We are, after all, only young once and to take advantage of that fact is so important. I never think about getting older and 110t being physically able to fi11d a new way to exercise has become my latest obsession. There is such a sense of empowerment in punching and kicking. It feels so s~tisfying to be sore all over after a full-body woFkout. I arn fi- nally forcing myself to be strong and toned. I mimic the instructor's moves (although my coordination leaves a bit to be desired) to the best of my ability and hopefully with tirne I will be a bit more adept at my uppercuts and jabs. I was a bit embarrassed when I first started because ·I didn't really know wl!at I was doing. Thankfully, I decided that I didn't care what anyone else tllought of my awkward move- ments, and that helped me get a little bit better. It's sort ofamusing to me wlten I see myself punching and kick- ing; some imaginary forrn in front of me, but it is also strangely pleas- ing tome to be feeling stronger and healthier. · I don't know how long my little infatuation with k.ickboxing will last, but I really.. like the way it makes me feel. After my hO'ur class, I have more bounce to my step and blood flowing to my brain. It is like a gift I give to my- serf, and lean be illmyown world while I am kicld11g aw.ay. I don't clleat myself Ollt of the 15() cru11ches we do: I make sure that l keep up my pace. It isn't worth it tobe lazy. My push-ups still leave a .Jot to be desired, bat I am sure that those, too, will improve with time. --------------------------------------1 run or rollerblade or play tennis. I guess I just fina!Jy figured out that I have to at least try new thi11gs. I can't allow myself to be- come stuck in a rut or prevent myself from doing somethingj11st because I think that I can't do it. The power to push yourself for- ward is all a question of mental strength. Jon Tapper's Column by Jon Tapper Staff Writer My editor is a very influential young lady. For tile first time all year, she has convinced me to write two weeks in a row. But I used last week's column to talk about reasons why I was writing again so I don't want to dwell on this point any longer. I am still looking to fmd a theme for this column that I can use ev- ery week. This is a small campus, so I am out of people to rip on. I have tried tackling serious themes in the past, but there are only so many issues that I can take up. So where do I go from here? I really want \to write, but I need some ideas on what [ can write about. I <lon 't want to leave th.is section, either. I have been writing for this section for two years now and it feels like home to me. Also, the features section has the best look- ing editor, hands down. So why the hell wollld l want to move? Moving on. I said last week that the Red Sox would win tile World Series this year. As of completion ofthisarticle, the Red Sox are still the best team in baseball. I believe they are still undefeated, but that probably won't be true anymore by press time. So the point of the baseball part of this article is to remind you all that I am right. l had the biggest nightmare try- ing to get into a third class last week. Union College policy is that you have two weeks to add/drop classes. But the problem is that most professors on this campus will not let you in after the first week, no matter what the reason is. And most of the ones who would let you in will do it at the expense of a few points off your final grade. Long story short, I fi- nally fou11d a professor who was reasonable enough to let me join the class and start off on a level playing field. My grade sheJUld not be affected because I was follow- ing the college's rules for chang- ing classes. If most professors have a problem with tile rule, they should take it up with the college and see if they can get that rule changed. Other than that, the stu- dents shouldn't be punished for following the guidelines set forth by the college. Damn, that last point was pretty serious. I don't know whatjust got into me. I will try to avoid llavin:g mental lapses like that in the fu- ture. So Union College has l>ike cops now. It's not a bad idea. They probably will improve safety on this campus. And they defi· nitely stick out in a crowd. They kind of remind me of that sh{)~ Pacific Blue. If you haven't see11 it yet, you're not missing much. That should just aboufwrap up another quality edition ofthis col- umn. As always, topic ideas, com· ments, and concerns can be settt to box# 2037. I'm really count• ing on you this week because 1 need ideas ifi'm going to continue to write this column every week_ But the fact is, we ha'Ve so much potential in our young bones and muscles that we never fullyutilize. As co !lege students, far too often we waste away our youthful en- ergy <Jn couches and eyestrain from too many hours oftelevision. So, rece11tly, I gave myself a sec- ond c.hance at feeling strong and alive. I figured it wasn't t<Jo late just yet. I started taking a kickboxing class with a few ofmyfrie11ds, and wltatstartedas a simple attempt to I never really had the time be- fore to do something just for rne, that made me feel confidant and- just good about myself. I am glad that before I scurry off to medical school, I finally learned to make myself happy.

t has 1ere tent ;:els ever l fi- :>ng - ves ves t (;)f .rne rny b.i:t ted bat led ~Jse ve- :t a ten ~k­ Dnt as- md ttle fill ' it .,ur ny ny Ly- rJd n't 5() ttl l it .ve u:e ith IUt ~w •e- :nt 1St it. )f- till •e· te, ld- OJ.d :al ~e i,', Feat11res Word Search .•.. by Amanda Jackson Advertisement Coordinator dtnnc:nrbiensis ·April 15, 1999 · Page 17 Fill in the Blank R PH A L 0 W E U S S C M P E C L E: R 8 0 U T H C M. :GBSAPELMSAROEIETASCOANRVEB TIALEXANDERFIELDRNRCEASHNL G L H M N ·w E E V C .A E T M I E V A E I 8 N U V T P. ·N KG I E E L S TIM G WEBSTER AN 0 R WI H. ANSEAR.BAUNMEPYRWDLTLNAREOD A I 8 E E M C N N 0 T N S E A E L 0 L S S D F R D T Concordiensis' take on Mad Libs. Play with a friend, ask him/her to provide you with the responses for the things named under the blank spaces without reading the storyline. After they tell you their ~nswers, read the story back to him/ her with the filled-in blanks. Yesterday, ---~~~_was walking with a frien Male administrator and noticed that something was caught in a. tree near -~~----· Stopping to see what it was, he Place on Union Campus NAAIVEEAAIHTRIRNHRICHMONDL ESLTRRXSMASEAUYEEAEIXIXOWE DACELHMESPHCLATROLKEISHTSP RFR.CARCUILUTYADEALYNSSATMA AM ERR H CAE B T .S E W H M R E 0 C 0 I H M F H. G R P N E U A L H E T D C E 0 I D K N E T 0 T E E ·C discovered that it was a He wasn't --~~~- Noun sure what do with it, so he it into his -...,v\.e.. -,-(pa-;st 7 te~nse'\') -- ---:---:-~:-:-:-:---' hoping that he might run into a metnbe Article of clothing of . He was sure that someone fro . ---:::--:-::o--:--:--- Greek Organization SRPNTMUAAPMIOEATCSNSONAMDL NLUENALHOTWENHNEAHUTOSBOTA OSIDENORTHEHTATTATLHRLARTI S E N H C I T T G R B T D T 0 H E A G N 0 E T I L R KSJPNTBONOEIOAISNRSUMUEALO C P U 0 I I I N E D U T C H H 0 L L 0 W U S T L D M ACESLESSNGOHWGRRISVUHLBEAE JERNO.SDIVADSEWTAERSIMDAWHM ~~---- would be upset to know that it was lost. Same Greek Org. as above Suddenly~ _______ appeared out of the bushe Male name and-~---~ asked him, \Is this yours?\ The Admi uistrator from above student replied _____ , \Actually yes.\ Naturally Adverb he returned it to him with a warning, saying that he woHI be fined ____ dollars if he misplaced it again. PLACES ON UNION COLLEGE'S CAMPUS Number Crying _______ , he ran off and found his NOTT MEMORIAL HALE HOUSE Adverb DAVIDSON UPPER CLASS FOX WEBSTER friends, ---=-~,-----and ----='\\,..-;-;----- Boy's Name Girl's Name NORTH ADMISSIONS SOUTH RICHMOND They went to ------::--:---=---c=---- and asked if he had Female Professor REAMER CAMPUS CENTER JACKSONS GARDEN ALEXANDER FIELD MEMORIAL CHAPEL ALEXANDER FIELD WESTBEACB .. BUMANITIES _ .. RA,THSKELL.A.R done anything wrong. Thankfully, she saidno .. ~and the . : l' . SOCIAL SCIENCES LLBRARY DUTCH HOLLOW OLIN CENTER I . . . . ... Don't let Organic Chemistry keep you from getting into med school. Take Organic Chemistry with Kaplan this summer •.. and be ahead of the ~,. ~ game when you take it for a grade. Call now to enroll! .. KAPLAN'· 1·800-KAP·TEST www.kaplan.com • AOL keyword: kap~an three went on their way home to----~~- Donll on Campus Lak§s and rtnvironmenta[ Cfiange Vnion Co[fege Cf;nvironmenta[ Stuaies Seminar series 29 April 1999 5:00PM 115 Olin Center SEDIMENT RECORD OF BALLSTON LAKE ASAN ARCHIVEOF WATER QUALITY Paul T. Gremillion Union College Formed some l2,000years ago, Ballst<ln Lake occupies tile former course of the Mohawk River. Since that time, the lake has quielly Eiat and recorded the events around it. This sensitive indicator of environmental change is just now being tapped for our better understandirtg 11f e11vironmental change in this area. One uniqu~ attribute of the Lake is the fact that it is meromictic •. whiclt means lha~ ~e water in the deep southern end 1:> and has been ISolated from me upper waters. Thts tmportant condition has resulted in a number of fascinaling attributes, foremost among them is that the there IS a nearly continuous rec<>rd of climate ch!lilge. Dr. Gremillion will outline the \Ballston Lake Initiative\ at Uniorr College and wdl review the major findings to date.. Public lecture. All.mlks ille free Dlld opto to the public AllaftemOOfl talks sian ar S,()O PM, wilh refresbmtnu served uiOO. Pl~se call Jc<B Cc~~~,. Environ.mn~;l Srudic~ Prognm, S 18·3B8·u170\' advoou:e ns room amgnn~eili$ nod tune• .,. subfCO\ ~o clunge Mor~ informatioo. hllptl:tircon.gcol~gy.unicn.c<lu

Page 18 Union Crew Team Too Slow for Hobart Men )s, Women's Boats All Defeated By Experienced Competitor by John Carbone Staff Writer In 1991, the President of Hobart & William CoJ:Ieges and Union's own Roger Hull gave their bless- ing to the inaugural Preside!!t's Cup race, held between the varsity crew teams of the two schools. For the past eight years, the Union and Hobart & William Smith crew teams have fought wver the coveted cvps, with Hobart& William Smith, more often than not, leaving as the victors. In the eight prior years of annual com petition, the Union women were able to bring the cu(:) home only once ,in 1992. The men, likewise, were unable to touch the cup for the first seven years of competition. Tllat changed last April when Union defeated Hobart on their own course, and brought the men's cup h-ome for the first time. The saga continued this past weekend as Hobart & William Smith came to town. The day's rowing began with theJ.V. Women's8+. Union cox- swain Sharon Pozzner felt that her crew put outone of its best perfor- mances, but was simply outmatched by the strong William Smith boat. The varsity women followed, unfortunately with a simi- lar outcome. Down from the start, the Union women hung with the William Smith crew, even moving on them slightly. In the end, how- ever, William Smith proved too strong, as they opened their lead in the last 500 meten: fhe Varsity Men's 8+ race was next in the schedule; and it would seem that fate was pitted against Union. What can only be called an \unfair starting alignment\ re- sulted in Union be~inning the race about one-half of a· boat length be- hind Hobart. Union's men stuck with them, however, closing the gap as they approached the I 000 meter mark. A strong Union push at 1250 meters brought tlte crews along- side one another. As they passed Union's boathomse, spectators held sincere hopes that perhaps the tides were tllrning. Those hopes were dashec:l when Hobart picked up their stroke rating and sprinted to the finish, four seconds ahead ofUnion. For the second week in a row, the J. V. Men provided the most spectacular racing oJ the day. Trail· ing throughout th-e race 1 Union made a strong move as they passed their boathouse,. obviously in- spired by the cheering crowd and ry The Union men's varisty eight team races down the Mohawk River to the .fini.sh line on Saturday. --.~~ .. ~--··- \ . .,. .:~.· -~~ . __., ~ . ~ .. :...:·-·-'<:·-·-,· -. • •.• \!k._.. -:-· .. ry The women's team leaves the dock to warm-up before their race .against William Simth: emotional coxing of Will Genrich. The boats were neck-and-neck, and at times it looked as though Union led the race. From the shore, it was possible to see the determi- nation on the face of Union stroke Andy Martinson, as he refused to let his crew be swept away. Ex- hausted, sitting at the finish, nei- ther team knew if they had won or lost, as the race was simply that close. The judge's announcement carried the news that once again Hobart had been able to squeeze out a win. It should be noted that Hobart's J.V. boat had three var- sity rowers sitting-in, against a solely J.V. Union boat. The novice women concluded the day in what was unfortunately coming to be known as \typical fashion.\ Novice Coach Kenley Smith felt that, '\It was difficult for our girls to start the season against a team which annually vies for the National Championship. For two of our girls this was their first race experience, but I think that they all rose to the occasjon and perfonned admirably.\ Alas, the day ended with both President's Cups making the long journey back to Geneva, NY. Head Coach Tom White was able to find the dark cloud's silver lining, stat- ing that, \We now know where the standard in New York State rowing lies. We simpl-y need to raise our level to meet it. There were some oddities out on the water today, and I know that we're capable of conquering them and beating Hobart. I'm optimistic about the future and am looking forward to seeing them again at the New York State Championships.\ This weekend Union faces St. Lawrence at home on Saturday and then travels to Saratoga on Sun- day, for the Skidmore Invitational. Many thanks to those fans who came out this past weekend. We look forward to seeing you all on Saturday, as well as some new faces. For directions to Union's boathouse, e-mai I carbonej@union. edu. Concordy Meeting Tonight at 6PMin Room 303 ofCC I ~ (

to Ex- nei- n or that a for the of he to n- w 's -Sports ~ - - - - - ~ - · - - ~ - - - - - - · - - - .. - - · · .·· · · ai.onrnTllit:trnis • April15, 1999 • Page 19 Baseball Still On Top In UCAA, Despite Losses Kazmierczak who Went eight in- nings in a no decision. The Uni- versity of Rochester came out and scored two runs first. The Dutch- men answered right back witl1 two runs of.their own. The Dutchmen held them unti·l the fifth inning when U of R scored three runs to take a five to two lead. The Dutch~ men didn't answer until the sev- enth inning wllen Ryan Almstead drove in the ty;iugrun with a single to left. Kazmierczak started the eight but gave up a lead()ff single. Replacing Kazmierczak was Jake Gunschel, wll& finished the eight and picked up his first win in the n·inth. by Rory Stern Staff Write-r The Baseball team traveled all week, facing thr.ee teams in five games. 'Tile team faced Skidmore~ RIT, an<i the University of Roch- ester. B()th Rochester teams were set up in doubleheaders, but the second versus UnivetsHy of Rocheter was cancellecl due to snow. Tile Dutchmen improved their league-leading recotd to 4-1. Although. the team lost three of their four games, the victory over U ofR proved most significant. To end thei1 road trip, the Dutchmen went up a:gainst the University of Rochester, in what was scheduled to be a doubleheader. As men- tioned, t.he second game was can- celed due to snow. Starting as Pitcher f<Jr-the first game was Craig .. · .... : ... ·,;.·.· '• . Tea,lll . t{ n' Lo n · R ·P.I ' . $ :k ,j (!'. m , o. r e ·st. ·1-a:.w're n c e Ro~fles·ter c .r a r1<: s o n · : H a 'ni fh ·o n · • , ...• - ,-.~;:;·:,···: . ·'' f , .. _, ..,_._. . ..... l.. ...• '·' \ . ,., •. ·.~·-' ·-~' --·.·; · .. • · .. '\' During the top of tile ninth, David Pointdexter lead offwith a triple to center. Following was Eric Kopka who singled to center, driv- ing in the winning run. On Satur- day, Union played Rochester In- stitute of Technology, which were non-league contests. Starting the fu~t game was Ryan Almstead who pitched a good game but was not able to pick up the win due to the lack ofoffense from his team. Th-e next game was started by Freshrne11: Seth Burrows, who pitched very w~n but got little defensive or offe11sive help. He pitched the whole g:ame, letting up only one earned riln, but the team had one let down inning in which four unearned runs were scored on four errors. The llighlight .of the game was Brian Slekes three-hit performance. On Tuesday the Dutchmen will face SUNY Albany in which Freshman Rob Moody will get his first start d:ue to his superb relief pitching .. .... · ''''f'?ffl· 4-1-0 3 .... 1 -O· .3-1-0 .3\:5-0 P T s 1 2 9 (Overall) W -l-T 4-1'2-0 14-7-0 9-10-0 5-13-0 1()-8-0 5-14-0 5-14-0 2-1 .. 0 ·2-s.:o 2.:s.:o 9 9 6 6 6 \ ' ' \\\'~- ' ::·:~ , ... -M 4 ~~ e \\. • 1 A'• Cory Silken/TC Senior David Poindexter waits for the right pitch. Softball Continues to Run Down Victory Lane games of the doublel!eader, 7-2 and 11yBrian Terlinsky Sports Editor enced and skilLed Williamsteam. The Uniun softball team contin- ued its ~uccessful start to their 1999 seaso11, extending their record to 13-5, after defeating Middlebury College ()h Tuesday in both games ofthe doubleheader. There is no doubt that the Union softball sqttad is certai~ly on a roll, as they have won I 0 out of their last 12 games and have considered this year's start one of their best ever. Asany softball coach would say, pitching wins games for the team, and so far,tbe Union pitcbershave given the team an exciting Spring season. Sophomores Meg Crow ley and Apryle Pi~kering, with fresbrnan Sarah Jolln~ton, have all pitched phenominally, and currently lead the UCA_A i11 pitching in many cat- egories, including ERA, strikeouts and victories. Johnst()tl already has four vic- tories in all four of her starts and has a 1.46 ERA and averages 5 strikeouts per game. Pickering cur- rently has .an ERA of 1.41 and has an average of three strikeouts per game, while Meg Crowley leads tlte UCAA in saves, with an aver- age ERA of 1.97 Last Thursday, Union was un- fortunately caught up in their win- ning streak, when they traveled to Williams College for another doubleheader, against an experi- There was no reason for Union not to be excited or ready for Will- iams, since Unio11 had two great home victories against Hartwick two days before. However, William'swasableto take a bite out ofthe Union wining streak of six games, as Union was unable combattlle tough Williams hitting and skiJlful team defense. The Lady Ephs of William's won both games of the doubleheader, by the score of3-2 and 2-1, respec- tively. Although Union came up short in both games, there was no doubt that Union had a good chance of winning either of the games. Throughout the season, Union has consistently kept tlteir games- pretty close in score. In the first game against Williams, the Dutch women kept the game very tight but fell apart in the bottom of the last inning. Wiilian1's would score two runs off a double, thus going onto victory. Despite the two losses, the younger players of the team showed off their talent. Freshmen Meredith Chace at1d M~linda Co- lon both blasted solo homers and sophomore Julie Cardettino .had two singles in tlte second game of the doubleheader. On Saturday, Union forgot about the losses against ~illiams and regained their momentum, be- ginning a new winning streak. Hamilton College was no match for the as Union won both 6-2, respectively. Pitchers Meg Cr()wley and Sa- rah Johnston once again were domineering, but also got much of- fensive support fmm the entire team. Cro~ley struck-out three batters ,and only gave up sevens hits, with only <me Hamilton player reaching home plate in the first game .. Tara McManus, Melinda Colon and Julie Cardettinoall had two hits for Union, while Shannon Lawlor smacked a triple in th.e second in- ning, scoring two ru.ns. In the second garn e, Johnston took tile mound and gave up only five hits. Union came out hard in this second game, as they scored five runs in the first inning alone. Deb Cedarbaum con11ected twice for Union, as freshm'!-n Audrey Brennan slammed a t\v()-run homer in the second inning. Then on Tuesday, the softball team had another chan><:e to extend their new winning streak and they took full advantage of this. Al- though Union was clown early in the first game, they once again was able to come back, alld went onto v.ictory by the score of 4-3. In the second game, Middlebury didn't even seem as they had their minds on the games, as they let Union crush them by the score of 8-0. Today, UnionwiUtakeonAlbany here at Union at Bailey field at 3 PM. Also this wee~end, the team will travel to Utica on: UCAA Standings Team Union Rochester Ham lito n R PI S k idrn ore (UCAA) W ~L-T 2 .. g -0 2-0-0 2-4-0 0-0-0 0-2 ... Q P Ts 6 6 6 0 0 (Overall) W -L-T 11-.5-0 9-!J-0 7-8--0 11 .. 7-1 2 ... 11 .. Q Cory Silken/TC Freshman Melinda Colon sets up f() try and bring a run home for Union on Tuesday. ,.,

•·' . ... Sports QI:llltrurhien~is • April15, 1999 • Page 20 Union Tennis Wins One, Loses One Up-State by·Mark Shemel StajfWriter This past weekend, the Union College Me11\s Tennis Team played two away matches at Clarkson ancl St. Lawrence. Throughout fhe entire weekend, the team remained positive and earned their first victory of the season against,Ciarkson. In their 4-3 victory over Cl<~orkson, the team proved tlleir endurance by coming back t()winkey deciding matches. freshman A.dam Feldman and jun- ior JQsh WinQgra:d played with in- spiration. Down to their Clarkson op.ponellts, Winograd and Feldman r<t)rnained focused and confident as. they came back to defeat their upponents, 8-6. As- sistant <nac;ht. Greg Roman com~ mented on h()W he was pleased with the team's doubles play and was esp.;;cially proud of Josh Winograd:an.d Adam Feldman for their cornellack vict0ry, When asked abouttllecomeback, Roman said, \They h11ng in there, played smart, aad e-arned the respect of the entire team When they won.\ All of the singles winners took their oppone11ts in straight sets. At third singles, freshman George Verghese defeated his opponent, 6-1, 6-2. At f()urth singles, fresh- man Adam Feldman defeated his opponent, 6-1 ,.6-2. At fifth singles, recovering fr<Jm a severe ankle in- JUry, Junior Josh Winograd pushed himself to the limit to defeat his opponent, 6·1, 6-2. These singles players proved their power by not allowing their opponents more than three games each. Unfortu11ate ly, Union's success at C larks()n did not carry over to theirmatd\. atSt Lawrence, where they wered:efeatedby a score of5- 2. Union's tw0 wins came from freshman fourth singles player Adam Feldm<:~n and sophomore sixth s ing,les player John D 'Entremonl. When asked about the team's lus:s to St. Lawrence, freshman Adam Feldman felt that the team sfloulcl have been able to take St.. LaV~rence. Assistant coach Greg Roman :shared similar feelings and COI111lle.nt,ed that the team should ha.v.e easily beaten St. Lawrence. He said,\ l'm going to work with the team this week to Sloan MHier/TC The Union tennis team goes over their statistics in practice from this past weekend's matches. The doubles teams also proved to be a success. At second doubles, freshman George Verghese a11d senior Sudheer Potluri crushe'cl their opponents by a score of8-2. At third doubles, correct the few minor flaws in their game that are responsible for their loss so that in our next meeting. against St. Lawrence, we can dust them.\ Union's playing this past weekend can be characterized as an overall positive experience. Men's rennis Tea:m willbe practic- ing with the utmost intensity as they prepare for this weekend's UCAA tournament. With the ClarksO>n win under their belts, the team can enter the most important tournament ofthe season with con- fidence. It would hejust to say the team has molded themselves into a respectable and competitive team composed of athletic prowess and spir,it. The season is still young, but the team wants to prove to Union College as well as other col- leges in the conference that they are a force notto be reckoned with. This week, the Union College Tlae f.Uowillg members of the fatuity will be co~~Jidcrtd for reappointmeut this Spring. Any member of tile Cllllpua commauity wilbillc tc,atrer writtm or oral testimony toneemlng 1be ia4ividual profason.should colltatt a nember of the appropriate Reappoill1lllent Review Committee: '· PAUL GRE:MU.LIONt ASSISTANT PROFESS&lt ()F CIVIL ENGINEERING: The committee m~mbers are: Thomas Jewell, committee cmr(Civil Engineering: jewellt@uniCJn.edu); Phillip Snow (Civil Engineeritlg: Bn<Jwp@union.edu ); John Garver (Geology: 81lNetj@union.edu). HYUNGJIJARK, ASSISTANTPROFESSOR()JIJNGLJSH: The committee members a.re: Bonney MacDonald, committee chair (English: maccl()nab@union.edu.); Jordan Smith (.English: amithj@union:.edu); Peter Heinegg (&glish: beineapt@union.edu); Brenda Wineapple (English: \\lineappb@ltllion.edu); Hatty Muten (BngHsh: JUrt~on.edu)~ Ruth Stevenson (English: stevensr@union.edu ). PRESHA lUJDERMEl'ER, ASSISTANT PROJISOOR, GRADUATE MANAGEMENT INSTITIJ11: The committee members are: Don Alnllld, committee chair (GMI; amoldd@u~()n.edu); Alan Bowman (G-MI: boWillana@lanion.edu); Josef Schmee (GMI: scbmeej@uoion.edu); Rudy Nydegger(6MI: nyd~er@union.edu). SAIWIBiNRY, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF\IIJSTORY: The committee members are: Robert Wella, committee chair (Histo.ry: wellsr@llli4lt:te:clu); Mark Walker (History: walkerm@UJii()n.cdu); Teresa Meade (History: uet(9union.edu). DA VIDE ailtVONE, ASSISTANT PR.OF.ESSQllOFMA'I'BEMATICS: The committee members are: Kimmo Rosenthal (Mathematics: rosmtllk@llnion.edu); Micbael Frame (Mathematles:. fiamem@union.edu); Kul Zimmetma:nm{Mathematics: zimmermk@union.edu). WJLL1AMXEAT, ASSISTANT PROF.ESSOll~l' MECHANICAL ENGINEERING: The Committee 1110mbers.are; Richard Wilk, committee chair (Mech~cal Ensineerlng: wilkr@unios.edu); llonald Bucinell (Mechanical E11Jl11eerlng: bueinc;lr@union.edu); J. Richard ~banebrook '(Medwlical BnsineerinJ: sbanebrr@lui()m;edu); Frank Wicks (Meehanical . BtgbteeiirJB: l'fi~on.edu). DWNI MCM1JLLEN, ASSiSTANTPROFESSOR()PPERFOlOONG ARTS: The committee nembers are: HUary Tann, colllltlittee chair (P&rf'orming.Arts: tannh@union.cdu); Bury Smith (Performing Arts: smithb@IUlic>n.edtL); hltott Warde (Modem Languages: wardea@lhli.on.edu). RICIIAlm 1'0!, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR &J }()U11CAL SCIENCE: Theconunittee members ate:: Terry Weiner, committee chair (PoRtle:a£ kienoe: weilleit@union.edu); Clifford Brown (Polillcal Scleace: brownc@ullion.edu); JUlies tTIIdhood (Political Science: Wlderwoj@lnion.cdu). CBAILO'Mil EDIM1N, ASSJSTANTPRORSSOR OF VlSlJALAllts~ The Committee amber~ are: Chridluncart, catnmitteecbalr (Visual Arts: duncanc@union.edu); Walt« Hatle.(V'wal Arts: hatkew@wli~n.edu); louis• Matthew (Visual Arts: mattbcwl~n.edu); Ruth Stevenso~~ (English: swensr@union.edu). l.E.P. DEADLINE The deadlim .for prornW for the Internal EduCjdon Foundation in two ~gories - student· initiate4 research projects 800 \e41~~eationally inoovauve projects\ b May 13, 1999. Proposa~ for student-iniliated research projects must bave the written approval of a faculty advisor \\to has agreed to supervise tbe.project. 1he projM)IJs shoold be mbmitte4 to the Dean's Office (SlOO, Science & ~ Building) ()n forms a'VBilable.there. · SimiJarly, members of the CoUege communi~ who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them tn the same (Jffice on forms available there. Forms for Faculty Rewdl Projec!S are also available in the Dean's Office (SlOO). Guidem wit respect bthe l.E.F. are available in the Dean's Office. Inquiries abouti.E.F., the guidelires, or tte - deadlire sbould be .directed to Margaret Dalton, Administtative Assistant to 1he Dean of Arts & Scims. Wbea preparing bdgeiS, ~ease remember that per diem rateS are oormally llmlted to SSO.SS per day. TWSj.Uia~oa m sloold also reflect b best rates available; Students who are planning to do interviews must llllicate that arrangemeats bave already been made. If your research incltlles work Yrith humauwjee1s, dm ~ ~ must have prellmiDary approval from the Human Subjects ReseardJ Conuniuee before it can be filn1ed by the Subcouncil on UIXIergraduate Researcb. ******to*****************************~*********** ·FACULTY WEAlCH DEADUNE The PaClllty DevelopmemtCommittee is lllW soliciting propU for faculty research a00 scholarship activities. Applicadomaoo guidematc avaiJable in Dean Sorum's Office (S-HX), S&E). Tbe~line forsubnonof~isMay 13,lm. ~om conceming the1aculty Re&t.ucll FuD1 should be directed to Dean Sorum. When ~ budgels, please rememl:er lbat per diem rales are oormally limited to $50-85 per day. TrarMpOt'ladon SJoold·all> redectlk ~.rates available. If your research inc~.m wilb ~ sub,iCci, tmn 1M proposals must have preliminary approval from Ill Human Subjects • CclDIIIittee before it can be fwxled by die Faculty Deveq,ment Cclmmittee.

,.. 20 e into and to they Women's Lax Cruises By Oneonta, 18-5 However, it was the Dutchwomen Moss, Harris, and freshman . by David Brooks Editor-in-Chief Sophomore Lauren DHI put it best when she said, ''We proved a point.\ The Dutchwomen battled back from a tough loss to second- ranked Middlebury College and beat local opponent Skidmore, 11- 9, on Friday afternoon. In what was their first UCAA who came out hot. Union cruised Stephanie Maycheck each had a early, holding a 5-l halftime lead. hat trick, while Margaret Merriam The setond half would be no dif- and Dill each had two of their own ferent as the Dutchwomen hand- en route to Unions 18-5 victory. ily defeated Rensselaer, 14-4. After scoring her fir,st goal of the Harris led the scoring spree with season, senior captain Jess Paige four, while Senior Shoko Okado stated, \We're playing well as found the back of the net three team. We have teally bonded. times. Ryall and lllsely each had From those on the field, to those two goals and an assist on the on the sidelines, we have come game of the season, the day. Weessnerhadanother solid together and are all working hard.\ Dutchwomen started slow. \We day between the pipes with 12 The Dutchwomen are now 8-3 came out a little flatfooted/' stated J!)nior Abby Harris. Union found themselves trailing 6-5 at the half, but were lifted by Junior Sam Ryall, who ended the day with five goals and three assists. Captain Sarah Moss added two goals and an as- sist while Freshman Tara lllsely scored two goals ofher own. Se- nior goaltender Maura Woessner helped the Dutchwomenwin their fifth game of the season with a seven-save performance. Harris added, \It was a big game for us. The win is great motivation for us, since we will most likely see them again during states.'' Coach Beveiander echoed Harris stating, \We were flat today. We need to come out blaring like a forest fire.\ On Saturday, the Engineers from Rensselaer traveled across the river to battle the Dutchwomen. Fresh off a victory over Skidmore, the Engineers were ready for Union. saves. \Rensselaer was a mental overall and winners of three threat for us,\ said Dill, \but we straight. \We have a lot of in ten- came out strong and proved we sity. We come out and play better were a stronger and better team,\ each game!,\ said Moss. \We just Harris continued by saying, \We have to focus one game at a time, knew we could beat them. We and not look ahead to the NCAA.\ just came out and played our Bevelandergotevery player into game.\ Heading into Tuesday's the game Tuesday, and adding to match against Oneonta, the the scoring attack were Dill, lllsely, Dutchwomen were 6-3 a·nd and Jennifer Capalbo, who each owned the lead of the UCAA. had a goal. Bevelander com- After staying idle in the na- mented that the biggest challenge ti onal polls at 18, the for the team is \keeping them in- Dutchwomen faced off against tense. That is the biggest chat- Oneonta on Frank Bailey Field. lenge now.\ Trailing 3-1 after four minutes, Union packs their bags and Coach Bevelander called a heads to the North Country this timeoutto fire up the team. \Af- weekend as they face Clarkson on ter the timeout, they came out Friday and St. Lawrence on Satur- fired up and ready to play. We day. The Saints recently beat lacked intensity early.\ said Rochester, who is ranked third in Bevelander. Behind the stel'lar the state. Union is currently ranked ptay of Woessner, U~ion dug fourth. On Tuesday, the team traY- themselves out of the hole and els to New Paltz, before coming pulled away from Oneonta. home for the regular season finale. -~· .. · -· • < .- • • •••• - • • ; ~. -~~-' ' \ ·. .. ' \\ - : ~r--:. Cory Silken/TC Senior Sara Moss makes a dodge around two de }enders during Union's game against Oneonta. Union Men's Lax Team Faces Local Rivals by Hugh Meyer Staff Writer After a s-trong performance against the number five team in the nation, the Union College Men's Lacrosse team w&s primed and ready for two critical games in the UCAA. The defense would be the focal point of Union's game plan as well as solid ball control and dis- ciplined play. With this in mind the Dutchmen were focused for their first test against arch rival RPI. Last Friday, the Union Men's La- crosse team traveled to the cam- pus of RPI to take on another Top 25 opponent. The captains riled up their teammates and reiterated the significance of the game to their program and their season. The Dutchmen came out of the gates with tremendous intensity and wanted to set the tone early in the contest. Co- Captain Steve Hoyt noted, \Weplayed with a lot of confidence in the first quarter and stayed within the game plan.\ In the second quarter, the Dutchmen took an ille- gal stick penalty, which would cost them dearly. In a span oftive min- utes, RPI scored five goals to in- crease its lead from 4- 3 to 9-3. This undoubtedly killed all of Union's momentum in the contest. When the second half opened, the Dutchmen continued to take more bad penalties. RPI eontinued to fire away at goalie Pat Forrest and were able to \stretch out our zone.\ The Redhawks capitalized on numerous mistakes made by the Dutchmen and scored agreat deal of its goals off excellent feeds in the crease; Union would be outscored 7- 2 in the third quar- ter. The Dutchmen were out- W<Jrked and outplayed and would lose the game by a score of20-6. Cbad Schneider and Scott Dutcher each scored twice for Union. Co- Captain Steve Hoyt was disappointed and said, \This was not a game indicative of the potential of this team, it was tough on both the younger guys and the Seniors who will never face RPI ever again.\ On Saturday, the Dutchmen traveled to Skidmore and were incensed on coming away with a victory.The Union Men'.s La- crosse team had to pull it to- gether and put the last game be- hind them in order to be success- ful The captains explained totheir teammates that this was a \must win game for the season.\ Tradi- tionally, Skidmore has been a weak program, which has allowed Union to dominate the series for well over a decade. However, this is a new team, with a new coach and a different playing style. Right from the first whistle, Skidmore dictated the pace of the game, which frustrated and rattled the Dutchmen. Co- Captain Steve Hoyt noted that, \Skidmore had a deliberate offense, which counterbalanced the superior speed and skill of our team.\ Skidmore was able to control the ball and take time off the clock. Union's opponents would take an early lead and this along with its \disciplined style\ proved to be too difficult. The effects ofthe RPI game were undeniable, and Union continued to be plagued by inferior ball con- trol and a posed Skidmore squad. However, it was an exciting game overall; the score was tied with three minutes to go. Unfortunately for the Dutch- men, Skidmore was able to find the back of the net twice and win the game I 0-8. Chad Schneider tallied three goals for the Dutchmen, while Nick Balascio scored twice. The UnionMen'sLax team next faces another difficult opponent in Albany State as well as two more contests this weekend. The Dutch- men will have to put the last two games behind them aDd revert back to their physical play in order to get the season back on track. Notes: Sophomore Scott Dutcher is fourth in the UCAA in points, with nine goals and five assists. Cory Silken/TC Senior attackman Chad Schneider fires a shot on net during the Skidmore game on Saturday. •

. ~ ' ,., ~ '3.\ ' 0.· .. • :f , • ~ ' Track Fairs Well at William's Rel;lys by Peter Flynn Staff Writer This past weekend, men's and women's track traveled to Williamstown,.MA to compete in the William'sRelays with eleven other schools. The weather was nice ,though a bit too windy. This was a non-scoring meet that combined many open events with a number of relays. In the. 800m, there were a number of personal records and breakthrough races. Freshman Maureen Farrell ran a solid 2:37.03 for her debut performance this season. Kamal Tyson also ran well with a 2:39.96, a season's best by six seconds. Sophomore Megan Lee, also running herfU\st race of the season, showed her fitness witha2:44.7l. Jon Houghton and Matt Conley ran well with a-2: 10.7'1 and 2:07.52 respectively. Steve Schuler had his best race to date, beating out his competition with a long, 300m kick to win his heat in 2:03.12. Apparently, Schuler was yelling for the final 200m of the race. Aftertherace,arunner frern RPI who Steve beat (at the wire) said, \I heard some loud yelling behind me and thought, 'That dude's going tobeat me.\ Maybe Schuler has discovered a new tactic. Senior Jesse Prisco flies through the air during one of on the long jump. In the l500m, both AmySiabich and Jeff Morse had personal records for the season running 5:19.9 and 4:32.0 respectively~ Glenna Malcolm also ran well in the 5000m with a 20:51.4. Freshman sprinter Renee Rinaldi doubled up in the 1OOm (15.84)andthe 110m high hurdles (20.06). Rinaldi also happens t<> be an avid diver and teaches a diving class Thursday afternoons at 4:00PM in the Alumni Gym peol (free ofcharge). All are invited to attend. Distance runner Peter Flynn had a good day finishing second in the I OOOOm in 31 :40.5 and first in the 5000m 15:35.52. Surprisingly, Flynn had no blisters on his feet (for the first time in four years). In the field events, sophomore Missy Matusewicz proved to be \back in the saddle,\ jumping 4. 72m in the longjurnp and 'l0.29m in the triple jump. Matusewh;z hopes to repeat the fifth-place performance she had at States last spring. The \jumpers\ 4x 1OOm relay went well for Brian Roy, Kris Darlingtcm, Chris Strohsahl and Jesse Prisco who placed second overallwith a46.86. The men also competed in a regular 4x 1OOm, a sprint medley relay (200m, 200m, 400m, 800m) (Kaneko, Strohsahl, Schuler and Houghtun), a distance medley relay (I 200m, 400m, 800m 1600m), (Jon Nieman, Morse, Schuler, Conley) and a 4x400m. The women competed in a sprint medley relay (Rinaldi, Tyson, Lee, Alex Podgorny), dis- tance medley relay (Siabich, Marie Maurer, Malcolm, Farrell) and a 4x400m (Tyson, Lee, Rinaldi, La Pietra). Good job ladies. Herearemostofthe results. (Not all of the results were available. The author wishes .to apologize for aq performances not mentioned and for any misprints in the re- .sults). Women's: Long Jump Missy Matusewicz 4.72m 110 High • Why do you think Greg N . . .. orman can never w~:n at tbe Master.s? E-mail yourthougbts to concordy@vu.union.edu Hurdles Renee Rinaldi 15.84100m Renee Rinaldi 15_84 Triple Jump Missy Matusewicz 10.29 1500m Amy Slabich 5:19.9 Carrie Welch 6:33.1 Laura Kelmanovich 6:41.2 800m Amy Slabich 2:33.51 Maureen Farrell2:37.03 6. Kamal Tyson2:39.967. Megan Lee2:44.71 200m Andrea La Pietra 3 1.43 5000m. Glenna Malcolm 20:51.4 Men's: Shot Put Shawn Shopmyer ll.SOrn Javelin I. Brian Roy 148'7\LongJ11mp Prisco20'1/. 2\ Roy 19'3.5\ Darlington 18'8\ 4x1 OOm (Kaneko, Whittington, Strohsahl, Prisco)45;91 Jumpers 4x100m 2. :(Roy, Darlington, Strohsahl, Prisco)46.86 1500m Jeff Morse4:32.0 110m Hurdles 2. Roy 16.85100rn I. AtsuKaneko 12.17 Jerald Whittington 13.24 Asad Chaudhry 14.07 80.0m Steve Schuler 2:03.12 Matt Conley 2:07.52 John Houghton 2:10.71 200m !.Kaneko 23.72 5000m !.Flynn 15:35.52 l0000m2. Flynn 31:40.5 Jon Nieman 40:45.6 Corey Mathis 42:57.9 4x400 I. (Whittiugton, Kaneko, Houghton Flynn) 3 :44.24 Track Notes: Next week Union will com- pete in the UCAA Champion- ship meet at RPL Sophomo_re Chris Strohsahl has yet to compete in the 400m this sea- son. He is trying to be the first person to qualify for States without actually rum1ing the 400m. To see Chris \in action\ come to the meet this Satur- day. For directions t() RPI, contact Coach Nick Conway at 347-0356. Union College Competitive Frisbee? Yeah, That's Right! by Chip Crary Special to the Sports Section The Union College Competitive Frisbee team has, once again, re- turned home with favorable re- sults. Upon coming up with a suit- able name, \Electric City Plastic,\ the club went to Philadelphia for the weekend to participate in a contest of epic proportions. Early on Saturday morning, the team took its two cooperate minivans to the site of the tourna- ment. Surprised that there was no The Frisbee club is pumped-upfor another fun-filled season ofcompetition confusion on how the team was actually going to arrive at tile site, ECP was there in plenty of time for the start of the first game. And what an interesting tourna- ment it was. Although Ed dresses like a tree freak, the team was still able to retain a certain amount of confidence that is rare i11 tourna- ments such as these. ECP went 3-l for the day~ only to lose to Holy Cross in the late after- noon, after some of the hardest, most intense, ultimate the club has ever seen. After this week.end's performance, the team feels confi- dent on having an<>ther success- ful perfonnance at R~gionals in a few weeks. Electric City Plastic :practices Monday, Tuesday and Thursday at 4 PM. We generally meet in front of the flagpole between North and South domitories. All are invited and encouraged to come. Tile team is open to all players, male and fe- male, young and old, and skilled and unskilled.

I :40.5 :44.24 com- . to first RPI ' was site, for still of after- in a front fe- i- ... lS.--ll/4~·1 UC:AA) APRJl . 2 Cl.ARKSON(2) .Won8-6'Won 7 .. 5 3 ST. LA~EN::~B(2) LoSt 4-21\von 7-5 7 at$kidrrore Lost l2.:.S . . 10 atRIT(2} Lost8-3tloSt5-1 · 11 atRocre.sta\i2) Won~S . 13 ALBANY. ·-- · · Wofti8.:1s. IS 'at~rta·.. ·:)PM,·:::_ .· :~ ·~' ·&a.>· .:' <~: ·, •.... ' . : .;. :,. . ~· ~ · __ 2t. i~n·(i} ·-'~··: ··ZPM+. __ .... '\. Wolllells ·-. ', .;: ... ~ :.~ .. .-:_-_'.· .. , -;~----'-··'':··:··.\·:··-;~ ... :.·-: . .-: ... _:-~--- __ ._., '- .. - .. - .... : lia:x_•·, . '\ ,.,;.: ·. ,. ~· ·o:,; . :~_f_,~-~M-~t!~~~~~i,~~~1 ··. · · ._, .. '\ , ' •• • • r .• •' ~-- . '• ~ :',':24 26-· atl:fun»ltotl . . ~ . -·~- ' .. • . . :·· . ., ·:.:'. . . APRIL (13-5) (). HARTWICK (2) ~ at Williams (2) l() HAMELTON(2) . U MIDDLEBUR¥{2) 15 · AlLBANY(2) t7 at Utica(2), 2() at RPI (2) 22: NEWPALTZ(2) 24- at Skidmore (2) : 27 ONEONTA (2) · 29' RUSSELLSAGE{2) M'AY . .ROCHESTER (2) Won 5-4/Won J .. 2 l<>st 3~2/ Lost 2 .. 1 Won 7-?.J Won 6- Won 4-3/ 8..0 3PM lPM· 3PM 3PM lEM 3PM 3PM lPM APRIL 5 9 10' 13 17 18 20 22 24 28 (1~2) SKIDMORE Lost7-0 - '-.. at Clarkson Won·s-4 at St Lawrence Lost 5-2 at Utica 4PM UCAA ChampiollShips 9AM at Hobart 9AM at Oneonta 3PM atRPI 3PM VASSER lPM at Hamilton 3PM M ···' .... ens Men's and Lax Cl-75/0-2 UCAA) :MJ(RCFJ' .· 31 at Hartwick .:ApRIL ·J·j:···;= .. , • ·. · 2 at V;lSser ·6 MIDDLEI3URY 9 atRPl H) at Skidmore 14 ALBANY 16 CLARKSON 1.7 ST. LAWRENCE 20 -at Utica 22 GENESEO MAY I HAMILTON 4 WILLIAMS Lost 10-3 Won20-2 Lost 9-5 Lost20.;.7 Lost 10-8 4PM 4PM IPM 4PM 4PM 2PM 4PM APRIL 3 10 18 24 MAY (Men 0-1/Women 0-1) APRIL 3 at lfanilton IO at Williatrs 16 lCM~atRPI 17 lCMr-ket at RPI 24 at :RPI Invitatioml MAY 1 State M!et at Rochester Crew atRPI PRESIDENT'S CUP RACE/ with Hobart and William Smith at Skidmore Gliman Plate & Cup Race at Hamiltcn (M) Lost 10.3-70 (W) 104-29 12PM 4PM lOAM IPM Won all four r~r .. P'\' Lost in all .five races 9AM 12PM 1 NYS Championship in Rome, NY 8 Women's NCAAChampionship - -



.• ~.~-. -~-· •.. , :~ \(B \r:.iffif#.~'i~ ~ April 15, 1999. -~ .~i1. -~'~' ;:~!\ ,..~- ~--~~-~-~~~- ~ ~~-

· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .. ·\the best· wa;·to ·ni«ke y~u~ d;;~m~· ~~;;,; ·;~;e·i~7o ·;,;ke··;p:-.,, .. · · · · ·· · v Volum~CXXII. NLLmherXIX The Student NewspapeT'()jUnion College Since 1877 . April22, 1999. _ .... ·, .-: Union Students Paying to Watch Other College Actors? News: E.R.E.D. Returns Page 6 Opinions: Stud·en ts Cbasti.zed for Bellavior at NCUR Page 8 bySitawn Montana Staff Writer Do you remember the signs ev- · .. erywhere 011 campus, seeking stu- dents to audition for the spring the- ater production, the musical. C aha- ret? Many Union students became excited at the possibility of being ina musicalproduction. Forthose not musically i11clined, the posters and fliers indicated,there were even non-singing parts available. Au- ditions were held and students went to try to be cast. The Jnusi- cal is now we11 intoproduction,but some of the cast members might · surprise you. Union's spring pro- duction includes some ofUnion's finest students, but also students from Skiclmore, Sl,JNYA lbany, and sccc. The director for the production is Union alumnae Diane Sadak. She was hired early last year to di- rect during Winter Tenn '99, but became pregnant and switched pendent JJrojects.\ Sadak then paused t() :~tate that she is \com- pletely in. suppart of these inde- pendent porojects\ which she feels are \reall5' \Villuable 1 and show an enormou~ a.mount ef thought and theaterintelligence for those par- Ncipating irt them.\ Sadak did not know ab()ut these projects in ad- vance, and so most people ex- and extended times to accommo- date people who were busy, or tired out from Government Inspector. I asked the students to brin~ friends, to spread the word, !Jut I got onh' one or two responses.\ The fawlty were in a tough po- sition as the rights and royalties for the expensive musical had been bought already, and they needed Teell,nol~gy: '-·:~ ' Jerms for directingwith PI:Ofessor ...._ __ Barty Smith, who was going to do ry Yutman Theater: The site ofrecent controversy. MP3,'s: How they Work Pllge 14 Spo,rts: , Women's LAX Remains UDclefeated in UCAA ~· :, - .,_ >. ... . • Cti!lipu.s News - 3 . Opilt·iens .. 3 Wo-,lciNews -10 ·A&E·-11 TetiiJt,logy-14 Fe•tures-16 SpoJ't~ ~ 18 ·· : ~ :-- . . - -.:;\··.<:./· .. '·'-:•,·:~.:< . -. 'r : ~ ~ < .. :,O,ttr· s ... ma:rl · · . . .. -~ .. : . \. ,' \ ·. , .. ,_. ,,. ,; : . ~::-< . _, · crtiJ~tftttly @ .. : vu.un~it~n~:·edu ~----~~~···~'--~----~ the spring production. During Fall Term, the theater faculty got to- gether and decided on Cabaret as that production. The curre,ntissue centers around casting. Saclak explains, \When we did theal!ditions, we had a large number ofupperdass majors wbo didn't audition that we thought would. I was confused ... upon speaking to maJJ.y ofthem, learned they were working on other inde~ pected to :Participate in the musi- cal are n <Jt. \After thee first night of audi- tions,\ slle e)(plains, \we became concernecl about casting, so I e- mailed mcany peopl~ who had au- ditioned oi ..:Vere going to.'' Sadak told themthesituation, saying they were in ne-ed of more people to au- dition. \'I set up additional times to have a cast. So with the permis- s~on o(William Fjnl~, Qire.ctgr of the Yu'lman Theater, Sadak opened auditions to the community and got responses. \We wanted to cast the best people possible. If there was ari opportunity to cast Union students in a role, we put them in there.\ One example ofthis is the kit-kat girls, a part ofthe cast Pepsi Loses Keys, c;ausing Campus Aggravation New Keys Will Soon he Dislributedfor the Third Time This Year l>y Mary Felton StaffWriter All of Union's students cur- rently living on campus have, at this point, trudged up or down- campus in order to obtain yet an- other key from Campus Opera- tions. This is due to the thought- lessness of a Pepsi-Cola vendor last week. AU students living in Union's residence halls have had to get a new exterio.rkey. This key allows them to enttlr their residence with · the new key, but does nothing for their rooms. The old key is still needed to unlock that door. Now students m11st carry two keys with them at all times. The Pepsi-C()la vendor mistak- enly left his residence han keys in the entrance t() a residence hall while he was servicing the soda machine. A fterrealizing his error, he went to reclaim his keys but they were gone. Union is not facing vendor care- lessness fot the frrst time this year. During tile winter term, an inci- dence ofkey loss occurred with a Tucker'sLitUndry employee. This also resulted in the changing of locks in alkesidence halls on cam- pus. This s~ond instance of ven- dor \carelefisness\ lead Union Se- curity to a(;t more quickly than be- fore. Bill Sick~nger, Head of Security commented. that, \There was no delay this time ... \ A meeting was held withtbeAdministration which resulted in the immediate change of keys clfld cores. Individll~tl room cores will be changed S()rnetime soon, but to ensure the 11tmost safety, Security took immediate action and changed the exterbr (;Ores of each building. This was to prevent whoever may have takert tbe Pepsi-Cola vendor's keys from a.ttempting to enter any ofthe residence halls. This lQck. change will cost the Pepsi-C()Ia' s insurance company close to 1:25,()00. In addition to paying this amount of money to the College., the Pepsi-Cola ven- dors, as \'Veil as the other seven vendors who serve Union's cam- pus, will be restricted to signing out keys to the residence halls. For example, there may be one key ring with keys to Fox, Davidson and South llalls that a vendor will have to sign out. When the vendor wishes to g() to West Hall, for example, he or she must sign in the keys to Fox and then sign the keys to West out. Sickenger said that this will be \inconvenient for the vendors\ but it will \minimize losses\ in tenns of security or. campus. He also stated that he is in the process of writing a letter to all the vendors which will infonn them ofthe new restrictions placed on their key use. Right now security is working on a new card access system for residence halls, which will be ef- fective this fall of 1999. Under this new system, a vendor who loses his or her card will simply have his or her card number eliminated from the system via computer, which will save money for the vendors, time for the locksmith and inconve· nience for the students. that includes dancing and singing tale11ts many of the Union students wllo al!ditioned had. Sadak in- creasedthe size ofthis group from six femilles to thirteen females and fuur !Tla 1es. I be licve Union stu- dents Viere given as much oppor- tunity as possible to be cast. The two major roles in the musi- cal went to a mde Skidmore stu- dent md a female who has taken acti11g classes at SCCC, SUNY Al- bany, and Union. \that is more that !Tlany Union students have done,at1d it is often forgotten that she has taken acting classes here,\ Sada.k .stated. Of the about twenty- e ightt()t at cast members, there are t\vo adLJlts from the community, fGur non-Union students, and one Union professor, Charles Batson. The remaining twenty-one or so roles ar.e all held by Union stu- . dents. And with regards to the two non-student adults, Sadak said, \'They play the roles of the two older adult chara'-Lers, and we knew \.Ve preferred to have older adults ill the parts.\ Juni()r Chris Welch., vvho is a Theater Arts ma- jor, e~llo.ed Sadak 's W()rds, saying, \They .knew that two roles would not be )Jfayed .by Uni<m students, becat&se tlley were 'olcfer' roles and shoul<i 'be filled by older adults.\ This casting of non-Union stu- dents has prompted many re- sponses. Seniors Deb Leif and Lauren Srecher, who initially pur- C()trtinued on page I Parking Issue Considered by Jessica Zuehlke News Editor It's ~:13AM and you have class in t'\Vorninutes. Sweat drips down • yourcheek as you frantically throw your b()ok.s into a backpack and grab a bottle of Pepsi One. The walk fro111 Fox to Bailey will take at · least ei~ht minutes: six too many. Should you chance it and pray that there is a spot for you to park near · the gy1t1? In haste, you finaiJy de- cide to gmb your keys and go for it. U]>Qn entering the parking lot, you no1ice something that should have been expected. Every spot is take11. As you continue driving in desperate need of fifteen by eight feet of ]>avement, you find your- selfa<:rQss from the fieldhouseand still n() spot. Frustrated and late, y()u give up and park ncx I to the Coffqlluuse, ahout the same di<;- tance fr()m Bailey as your original desti11ation. You arrive to class at CfJintinued on page 3 ' '

·····~··\'\'_.,..,,.. ~~,._ .. _. .. :;._;~,...... ~~\--' . ~·· \The best way to make your dreams come true is to wake up.\ This We:ek News: F.R.E.D. Returns Page 6 Opinions: Students Chastized for Behavior at NCUR Pa~e8 Technology: MP3's: How they Work Page 14 Sports: Women's LAX Remains lJ ndefeated in UCAA Page 20 Inside Campus News .. 3 Opinions - 8 World News -10 A & E -12 Technology-14 Features-16 Sports -18 ·Our E-mail concordy@ vu. union. edu -Paul Valery Union Students Paying to Watch Other College Actors? by Shawn Montana Staff Writer Do you remember the signs ev- er) when~ on campu~, s~eking ~tu­ d~nts to audition for the spring tll~:­ atcr production, the rn us ical CJhu- rL'I0 Mal'ly Union students h~:\.'arne l'xcited at the possibilit) of king in a rnuskal production. For thos~: not musically inclined, the posters and fliers indicated there were even non-singing parts avai,Jablc. Au- d i lions \\ere held and student::; went to try to be cast. The musi- cal is now weU into production, but some of the cast members 111 ight surprise you. tlnion's spring pro- duction includes sonll' oft 1 niun 's fin~:st st-udcnh. but also student:; from Skidmore. Sl INY :\!ban), and SCCC. lhc Jrrl.'dor fur the proJudion i~ !Inion alumnae Diane Sadak. She wa\ hirl'd carl) Ltsl )l.\ar tu di- rect during Winter Tt:rnl '99. hut became pregnant and switched terms for drrecting with Professor Barry Smith, who was going to do the spring production. During Fall Term, the theater fa~ulty gut to- gether ar:td decided on Cahard a~ that production. The current issue centers around casting. Sadak explains, \When we did the auditions, we had a large number ofupperclas~ majors \\ho didn't audition that \\ c thought would. I wa~ confuscd ... upun speaking to many of them, learned they were working on other ind~:- pendent projects.\ Sadak. then pau~ed eo state H1at she is \com- pletely in support of these inde- pendent projects\ which she feels arc \rl'all) \ aluabk, <md siH•\'\ <Ill t:no m1ous amount of thought and thcatt:r intdligl'ncl' for those par- til:ip<tting in thc.:m.\ Sauak did not hno11 abul:lt the~\.' projcds in ..td- \an ce, anJ ~o most people n- anJ e:\tenJeJ tirnn to arl·l>lllll1l)- Jatl' people who \\ere busy, or tireJ out from Gvwmment lnsp~ct(}r. I asked the students to bring friemb, !tl '>prl·aJ thl.' \\ t'r:d, hut I got tllll) Olll' or 1\1 ~1 rt:~ptlll>Co.\ Thl' fat:ult) \\\.'rein a tuu~h po- sititlll as th~: rights and rtl)<tllil.\'> fur th~: ~::-..p~:n::.i\1.\ Ill usit.:,tl had kl'n bought alreaJ), and th~:y 11~\.'JcJ ory rulmun Theater: The site uf recent cuntruwrsy. pcded to partiLipate in the musi- cal are not. \After the first night of audi- tions,\ she explains, \we became concerned about casting, ~o I e- rnailcd many people \ho had au- Jitio11eJ ur v. ere going to ... Sadak told thl'rn tl1e ~ituatiun,::;a)ingthl!) were in need of more people to au- Jitiorl. \I set up additional tirncs to ha \ e a cast. So w itl1 th~.· pcrrn i~­ sion of William Fin[ay, Director of the Yulman Theiiter, Sadak llp:ncJ auditions to the cormnunit; and got responses. \Wt: \\alltcd to ca::,t the hest people pm~ihk If thl.'re v.a:, an opportun it) tu c.i>t Union ~tudcnb in i.l role, \I< c put them in there.\ One example ofthis is the kit-kat girh, a part of the ca:,t th<tt ir~~:luJI.'~ Juncing and ~inc;,ing tall'nts man) ufth~.! Cnion ~tuJ~:nb who auditioned had. Sadak in- creased th~: siLt:ofthi:, group fru111 ~i\ f~·mdk::, (Ll t!Jirll.'l'll fcm,tJc, ,!lld fuur tnalc~. I bdi-.·\~o: l'nillll -.tu- JI.'nb '' nc gi\ \.'11 a:o. rnuch tlppur- tunit) .t'> po:,'>ibk tu bc ca::.t. The l\\ u ru.1jur rok, in th~: rllu::.i- cal \\ ent to a rnak SkiJnwrl.' :,tu- dcnt <.~nd a f~:rnalt! who has taken a..:ting c las~es at SCCC, Sl ']';'I' :\1- ban), and l'nion. \That i~ mon.: that man) l\n ion ::.IUU\.'Ilh ha 1 e done, and it i~ often forgotten that sht: has taken acting classc'> here, .. Sadak stateJ Ofthc ahlllll l\1 cnt>- l'ig.ht tot<tl ca~t nH~mb~:rs. there .tr\.' t\lll ,tdulh fn1111 thl· cumn1ur111~. fpur rwn-l · n ion -.t u~.knh. ,111d lllll' l :rril'l1 prul\.·..,,ur, Ch,trk-. B,thPn lit-.· lt'llldllllll!..' I\\ '-'11(\ -llllL' l'l \ll - . r~.J!L·, .ttl· .dl ho.:ld l~\ l·n1un -.tu lkllf\ :\11d \\ 111J fl'.C:d[Lh (p(fll' (II< l ll(ll]--.[llckll! .tdtllh. \,tcLtJ... ,,ll\1. .. lltc~ pia~ the 111ln pf iht· l\\(1 older •tJult dtJr,tl.lc.:rs, anJ \\1.\ lmt:\\ wt: prelt:rred to have older adults in the parts.\ Junior Chris Wdch, \vho i~ a Theater Arts ma- jor, ed1ut:J SaJak. '::,word:., Sa)illg, 'Thl.') k.nc\\ !hi.lt l\1 o n~k~ 11 vuiJ nut be pla)ed b; Union students, be~,;ausc th1.')' \ler~· \1ldcr' rob; ..tnJ should be filled b) older adulb.\ Thi-. casting of nPn-l~nion >tu- Jerth Ita::. prtiT1lpteJ 111<111) rr- ~run~c~ Sl.'nitlr'> Dd, Ll'if .tnd Lauren nn:LI1l'l, \\hLl initiall,; rur- Cmttinul.\tl mr page 4 ---------------------------------·-----------.--------··-------- Pepsi Loses Keys, Causing Campus Aggravation New Keys JJ'i/1 Soon he Distributed for tire Third Tilne Tfli.\· Year by Mary Felton Staff Writer All of l'nion's studl'nts cur- n:ntl) living on carnpu) ha\1.\ at th i~ puint, tn1dg..:d up tlr JD\1 n- campu\ in l1rdn tu obtain) L'l an- oth..:r kc) from Campus Opl.'ra- tion'>. Thi'> i~ Ju~: ttl thl.' thuught- k:,~n..::,~ of .t Pl.'p:,i-Ctd..t 1 \.'1ldt1r last week. :\11 :,tuJI.'nb li\ ing in t 'nillfl ·~ rl' :,id~:rH;c l1a 1b ha \ e lMJ to get ,1 new exterior key. This key allows them to enter their residence with the.: nc.:w k.e), hut Joe.::, nothing for thl'ir tllOIH\ Thl· DlJ k.t:) i., '>fill rH.:I.'Jd tu un h..:h th;rt dotlt ~ll\1 students m us! carl) 1\'\o ke) ~with them at all times. The Pl'psi-C'tlla 1 l.'ndtlr m i:,tak- mly left his re:,idcrH.:l' hall k~:) sin the entrance to a rcsidenc~: hall while he was servicing the ~oJa machine. Arter n:aliLing hb ~:rror, he went to reclaim his kc)sbut they \I l'rc gone. Union is not facing vendor care- lessness for the first timt.: this year. During the winter term, an inci- dence of key lms occurred v.ith a Tucker's Laundl)' employee. This aiso resulted in the ~:hanging of lud .... :, in all re~iden~.:~: halls on (i.llll- pu:,. Th i:, sl'cond instann: uf > Cll- Jor '\.:..trc lc.:J:>Il~'>!:>., kJJ l 'n il)ll s~­ lU ri t) tu illllllur~: yuick.l) th.trt bl·- fur~. n ill Sic kl'ng~:r, I k.tJ l,rc;;,lu r it: ll>llllllCiltcJ th..tt, \Th~r.: \1 .t'> 110 dc 1.1) thi::. tim~: ... \:\ mcl.\!ing \\ih hc lJ \ith th~..: :\J111ini:,tr .tlillll \11li~..h n:~LtlteJ in thl' imrnl'JiJte dhtng~· ofk.e)s and cores. Individual room cores will be chJrlgl'U ~om~:tirnc ::,oon, hut to Cll'>UI\.' th~..: lJllllO:o.l ~.lfcl), Sl'l.lllit;. tuuk irn11H:diatl.\ ..t~.:tilln ,mJ lh<llll:jl.'d tht.: t.:x.terior cores of each bui IJ in g. This was to prevent whoever may h.ndahm the Pl'p~i-Col.t vcnd<.1r's he)~ from attempt in~; to cntt:r an) of the n.:s:dence halb. This lock change will t.:ost the Pcp::.i-Cola's insuranll! lornp<~ll) clusc to $25,000. In addition to pa.) ing this amount uf mont:) tu the College, the Pepsi-Cola ven- dors, as well as the other sc \en vendors who serve Union's cam- pus, will be re~tril'lcJ to ~igning out keys to the residence halls For cxarnplc, then: 111d) be LlllC k.l'\ rill\ \\ ith kn ... tn r()\ J 0 ~ ' DJ\id~un ,lllu sllUth 11.tlh th.ll\ \ 1.'11Jun1ill k11 du-,ign PUt. \\ 11~·11 tht: \ l'lldLlf 1\ i-.111.'\ Ill g(l fp W~.·-.t I Jail, fur l'\illllpk, Ill· lH 'h~· ntu~t -.ign in thl· kc~' t~~ fp\ ,uhl thu1 ... ign th~ h.\.·)' tl' \\'~.,·.,t ~.~ut. Sith·ngp .,,I ill th,tt thi' '\ il! k \ir1u'll\l.'l1icnt fl'l tht: \l'llJl''\\ hut it \I ill\minimitc k~,~~·,\ in h:nn' 11f scu1rit) or. campu~. fie a1st 1 stated that he is in tht: process of writing ,tll'lll'r tP all the \ L'IH.lt )r\ \hil·h 11 ill irlf~.,nnthun Pfth~.: lh''' rl·,trill i<'ll\ pbct.:J Pll thL· ir h·) u '>t: Right 110\\ sccurit) is \lllrl-.ing on a new carJ access systcrn fM rc.:~itkm:e halb, 1\h ich 11 ill k· c.:f- fl'lliH: this f..tll uf J<JC)C) l '11d1.·r tlli'> 111.\\\ S):.lcm, ..t \t:ndor 1\hu 1~.~..,,.., his or her card \'>ill simpl) h,tl d1i., or her CillU nurn bl.'r~:li rn in.tlcd fr.ulll the ~ystcrn viawmputc.:r, nhidt ~'>ill :,.tV\.' mone) fur tl1t: \ l'llJPr-.., tint~· for the locksmith anJ inc,li1VL'- nicn~.:e for the ~tudcnts. Parking Issue Considered lly .Jesska Zuehlke /1/ew~ Fditnr Tt', C1 1 i ·\ \1 ;md: tlll h,11 l·cl.r\ in !11 u rninuk' c;:;,, l'dl Jrip~ J~.•\1 11 )\lUI' llll'l'k ,,, )t'll fr.tntic.dl_; thr~.''l )lllll !,,,,,J..~ inlc• .: l'.tlkj 1 .tlK .111J gr.tb ,l bPtt lc llf rl·p,i nrlL' Thl· \l.tlk. fr<•ll1 r .. ,, l\ 1 ll.rik;. \\ il: !.tkl· .:1 k,h! l·i,:;lrt lllillllk'' ,j, '''l' 111.111.) \hPtdd) 1111 cll.lrlll' it .lllcl j'l .l) :h.ll l h L' r !....' i \ <I ', l'' lt fl ll ~· \ llJ i \ 1 r ,1! ;.... iII.. .• t ~ th~· g_; rn\ In h,t..,fL,; llll fin,t11; ,k cidl' tl' grab )tlllr kl')S and gtl fllf it. 1'r~''' l·ntnin,:; tll.._.l'·trlin~~ 1,,: )!Ill lil'!i,v '''llillhir1;; llt.tl ,L,.:d,! !t.lll' b~-.._-r1l'\j 1 l\lll.cl r\ l'l) '!'''! j, takl.'n :\..,) tltJ ~-,1r1tinuc dri\ ing in de~pa,th.' lll'l'd ,,f fifteen h) l'ight fl·l'l (lf l\11 L'llll'Tlt. ; 1111 find ; <•Ill· ~L·lf.tll\1\'o frPill till·· fil\ldh< 1 ll'l' .111.1 ~till rw 'l'\ll frtt,tr.tkd .trhl l.1ll'. )llU gi\~· ll(' ,11:d l'·llk Ill'\! ll' tlh· Cllf~'l'h!•ll.,l' . .th'tll tht· ,,ttt~c· Ji,- t.uKl' fwlll n,rik_; ,h) l'lllllligin,tl Jl·,t in.rt i .. ,n Y~.'tl ,111i\ .._.Ill, h\' .11 Continued 011 page 3

Ca1I1pus Life Page 1 • April 22, 1999 • (flnnrndtiens,b.• Security Incident Report Stmday, AprU 11, 1999 Substance Abuse/Alcohol Life Safety Violation Disorderly Conduct Suspicious Person Criminal Mischief Monday,April12, 1999: Substance Abuse/Alcohol Life Safety Violation Criminal Mischief Life Safety Violation Criminal Mischief Trespass Motor Vehicle Accident Tuesday, Aprill3, 1999: Larceny Unauthorized Entry Larceny Trespass Fire Alarm Wednesday, April 14,1999: Criminal Mischief Larceny Criminal Mischief Trespass Harassment Thursday, April iS, 1999: Larceny Substance Abuse/Drugs Criminal Mischief Larceny Criminal Mischief Motor Vehicle Accident Motor Vehicle Accident Trespass Friday, April16, 1999: Vehicle Immobilized Substance Abuse/Drugs Life Safety Violation Life Safety Violation Substance Abuse/Drugs Criminal Mischief Saturday, April 17,1999: Trespass Criminal Mischief Trespass/ Arrest Life Safety Violation Criminal Mischie-f Criminal Mischief !2:30am Fox House. Excessive use of alcohol-. Co,ndltct Charges filed: 1:01am Clli Psi. Abuse of SociaL Event policy. 3:57am Fox House. Student and guest creating disturbances. Conduct Charges Filed. 4:51am Rid1mond HaiL Suspicious person in or ar-oumd Checked area. Could not locate. 12: 1•6pm Potter parking area. Student vehicle damage. 2:02am Psi Upsilon. Unruly student. Conduct Charge;g .filed. I 2:52am Clli Psi. Removal of room smoke detectm. I :35am Davidson House, Door glass shattered in basement door. 2:45am FIJ!. Propped door. 8:54pm Da\.icson House. Door glass shattered at :sotatll· main entr11nce. I 0:30am FIJI area. Non-student advised of private )hmperty s~atus.,. l :45pm Nott Seward parking lot. Hit and run accideiit. No injuri~s .. 8:22am Computer Center. Laptop cvmputer missing from locke<! office. l O:OOam Fox House. Unauthorized entry into houseli<eeping closet. Bac){pack rummaged thru. I 2:45pm Alumni Gym. Lockers broh:n into. Theft of money. 6:30pm Olin Center area. Non students advised of private property status. I 0:04pm Olin Center. Dust from sanding stone boat. 7:15am Bailey Hall. Fire extinguished tampered with<. 1: I Opm Chester Arthur. Vendor keys missing. 2:00pm Student vehicle damaged. 5:33pm Se~ard Place. Youths advised of priv&te· pr()operty stattls. 11 :38pm Off Campus. Students harassed by unknown oc.cupilnts of a vehicle 12: !Sam OaV'idson House. Possible tlleft of money fr()m wallet. I 2:00am Fox House. Found bag of marijuana. Returned as evidemc;e. 2: I Oam West College. Vandalism sustained to outside: v.'alkway and 3rd floor area. Conduct Charges .filed. 11 :46am Fie! dhouse. Missing badminton nets , 1:40pm Sol!tll College. Room window shattered by tlhmwn object. 3:36pm Alexander Lane. No injuries. 5:52pm Hu:ntley Lane. No injuries. II :33pm Huntley Lane. Non students advised of pri:vate property status. ll :30arn Libnry Lane. Vehicle immobilized due IC> outstanding parking violations. 2:40pm West College. Report of matijltana odor. Ui1COllfirmed 3:35pm FIJI'. Life Safety violation issued for proppimg door. I 0:51pm Raymond North. Housing violation. I 0:52pm F<~\ House. Report of marijuana odor. Unconfirmed. 11 :49pm f()JC. Hall. Exit signs and wall lights torn off Willi. !2:44am Campus property. Non students advised of private prDpetty status. !2:50am West College. Vandalism to window and cei:ling tiles Conduct Charges filed. 2:04am Old Chapel area. Previously warned non student arreste(J' fo1 trespass 3:46pm Fo:x House. Life Safety Violation issued for the removal of a room smoke detector. 1 0:52am Seward Place. Informational sign torn dow11. I :07pm Achiclles Rink. Window in entrance door sl1attered. Security Updates by Kate Schmidt • New stud.ent parking has been established in the Campus Center's circle. The spots allow for fifteen minutes of park- ing. • An addition has been made to the walking escort pr&gram, adding two escorts for a total of four guards. • Schenectady Police have arrested a numberofPanluutdlers who had been harassing Union students last term. • Spring term allots for an increase in parties, and Campus Safety would like to warn students about the prospe[t of Ruffles and GHBin drinks. Lookoutforyourselfan<lyour friend.s in order to keep the campus safe. AnnouncenieOts · Term Abroad in India The Exchange Program to India for the Winter Term of 1999-1000 is open to an students at Union. Int.ereste.d students sbould contact Ms. Salima Pasha _()r Prof • . . Jagd·isb Gajjar on the second Hoo:r of Steinmetz Hall. Application deadline is Apri12.8~ Announcing the Ninth Anuual Cba:rles P~ Steinmetz Symposium May 7,.199.9 Yoll can pick ll;p an applieation and,guidelines from the department secretaries or the Associate Dean's Oftice,S--100 Science and Engineering Buildi'ng. Appli.:ations should· be turned in to the department seeretaries. All students w-11() will KO t() NCUR in Rochester are expected to pr~sent at the . . Steinmetz Synposium. Union College Sprina Scramble Golf Tournament Sunday, May 30 Details and Tee Times to be announced Schaffer Library Book Sale!! All Hardcovers are 1 d{)llar and Paperbacks will be sold for 50 cents! April23, 1999 from H):30 AM to 4:30 PM Come to the Atrium of the Library. Barbarians at the Gate: Two Latin American Medeas Associate Spanish Prof-essor, William Garcia presents his lecture in the Olin Lecture Hali (Room 115) on Tuesday, April27 at 11:30 AM. · L11nch will foUow in Hale House Dining Room Robert Avon Srnith Summer Research Fellowship in Bio-Medical E11gineering at Union College. Tlte\je/lowship is sponsored by RolJert Avon Smith, Class of 1952. It is awarded to students in the sciences or engi- neering 1vho participate in a suJMmer research program in bio-medical engineering under tlte guidance of Union College fat:uity. Tire award will be made availaOle to a student selected 011 tire basis of ability to conduct independent research in bio- medical engineering and cofllmitment to the summer research program. Students illterested sJIOuld contact Prokssor J. Richard Shanehrot/Jk in the Department o[ Mechanical Engineering. An Ad Hoc Committe Formed to Consider Tellurability of Susan L.ehrman, Assistant Professoroftlte GMI Any member of the campus c(lmmunity who wishes to offer written or oral testimony cuncerning Assistant Professor Lehrman's teachi~g, scholarship or college service should contact Professor Hilary Taun at xei566, tannh@unio,u.edu .. Reappointment Review ofP'rofessor.Hyungii ~ark Faculty, students and administrators familiar with Pr9- fessor Park's teaclting, scholary activity, and/or college service arewelcometo submit ~omments to Professor Bonney Macponald, Chair oftiB~ English Deparment at macdoJDab@unioJi.edu. ( he WI Bt te tic de ne de Ull ex UJ na nc Tl UJ lit ev wl ev cc re a11 to m stl nc m: ar h~ th 11( u w ar B1 Sl :M N hi sc ci a~ th lu al th er st c st li: pc Cl h; w w

Campus News C!Ioncnrbit!nsis• April 22, 1999 • Page 3 . . - . Freshman ''International Society'' Orientation? Four New Parking Spots A Solution to the Parking Problem at Union? ... continued from page 1 by Roger McSha11e Contrih'IJting Writer Donnie Duvall, .a Union student a grossly inappropriate time and w:ho studied in England, said, \The . ·retum to your car later to find a first week there ga-ve me a chance pale yellow ticket awaiting your to really acclimate myself to the arrival. culture.~' · E:ven though this scenario could Each year 1 U11ion College plays Students participating in the be used as a 4evice to teach. stu- host to students ii;'om aU over the Union teiTil in Prag11e were greeted · dents to leave themselves ex.tra world. Countrie:ssuch as England, with. a tour of the 'City and given time in the morning, itmoreaccu- Bulgaria, Japan,.at1d many moJ;e are .pertn!lnent Czech !Ieiper buddies.· rately demonstrates the need for represented in Union's intema- On almost all Union terms · more· parking on campus .. The tiona! community. abroaCl 1 some type ()fcross cultural · ·. seemingly small number ofpark~ With an the&e interesting stu- student interactioJJ is facilitated • ing spaces on campus plagues dents present, \Nhy is it that we duri~g an .orientati()n period. most of the college community. never notice the!il? Moreo'ver, why These orientatio11 programs are There are only a few lucky faculty do we nottake advantage of their useful welcoming tools and help members and students who live in unique culturalinsight? international students adjust to walking distance from the.scbool, The answers to these questions their new environment. and never meet this chall~nge. But are complicatecL Some of'it can be So why is there no program for for most of us, this aimoyance explained by the all too familiar internatio.nals studying at Union? causes more frustration than an- Union apathy. Tnis :first interaction with students ticipatedfor an average day. Many of us re.cQgnize the inter• of a different culture may help to What if it is really late at night national studentsassuch~butfeel open up the lines Qf communica- ~nd a Davidson resident wants a no· desire to interact with them. tion between Unio!l students and snack? How dees someon.e in This is possibly due in part to the their international classmates. · Raymond Hou.se drop off an ar- Union social system, which leaves Rest assured, action is being tide for the paper if he is tired, or little time for conversation. How- Ujken. The Unio11 International · show upto his radio show on time ever, these students are every- SoCiety,.·arelatively new club on ifheislate? Whatifsomeoneonly where, in ()t:Jr clftsses, at our m.e~l~, caml)us, js .currently planning to needs to make a quick sto)YtO see even in our dol'!Ils. . host an. orientati()n period that • ~:~• pmfessor, or a dean wants to go There seems tc'>'be a blocl in what· would coincide witb Union's fresh- · to attend a Student Forum Meet- could be a veryeniichhig two.-way· · the~ orientation starting next year. i_ng after nonnal school hours? relationship between international Students are platming the pro- Obviously, parking aroundthe and· American ~;t11dents. -:Jtr order gram· at(}Und advice given them ~earner and Olin Centers.isprob~ to impr()Ve this situation, action from former and current intema- Iematic for everyone. These.quick rnustbeta~e~.e~ly. tiona! stttdents. stops are against the college's From the m<>rnent international \Our main goal is to enliven the r;ules, thus resulting in a 25 dollar studen,ts ~rriye at Union they are internatiq;nal feeling here on cam~ fine_ not exactly steJ)ping on awelc!;>me pus,\ club president Amanda Con- In an attempt to ease up on the mat. verse stated. · · congestion of cars near the Cam- In colnparis()on ·to the greeting· With tlte help ofasuppqrti:ve ad- · ~us Center, Security and the Of .. and orienta~i,pn,;V:q~e~ .:sw4rP,ts. ... Jninisttation.and t}nthusiastic stu- ~ce of Facilities Services have have received when goingabroad: dent body, hopefully this goaf can Cjdded four new spots around the this schml' s pro.:gram is practically be accomplished. ciircle, near ;the Security parking nonexistent. If anyone is inter;ested in becom- . ~rot. These spaces are desig11ated Students parti<:ipating, in the ing invol-ved in Union's lnterna- . as fifteen-minute only spots and Union tenn inE11gland~eregreete<I; tionat·so~iety or is interested in • will grant students or faculty the with a week full ofinteresiing tdps . learning !Ilore·&taill> about the pro~ • 6pportun ity to do sh9rt errands and helpful a:dvke provided· by . gram, please e-mail Roger McShane witllin the Re~er Center. British &t.U91;1tl:~. ·. ,_ : ~ , · , . . at mcshaner @union.edu: : D-irector of Facilities -$f;!rvlces c·~'miD.g:·soon:·.u,niOn'S Fashion Show! :·~ ;' OM ·,:~•'1!';~~-·~ :i )~;. -~-~~~; r,., ·,e·- 1 ~. • ~ ' : -~, ., . k ~ Show your support this Stlturday at 8 PM in Memorial Chapel by Lisa Carbone · srdtfwriter Union~ s third annual Fashion Show of Support, to be11efit the Make-A-Wisll Foundation of Northeastern New York\ will he held on Saturday, April 24th. This organization exists for the sole purpose of granting the spe~ cial wishes. of children under the age of I 8 who,ilave tennitlal or life- threatening illn-esses. Over the past tluee years, Union . has proudly raised an average of about$7,000pe:ryear for tllis Wor- thy cause. Due to the illtense interest and enormous tum(Juts in the past, the show will be held in Memorii;\1 Chapel for the second year in a row. The students. modeling in the show have bee11 selectecl from a list of n()mine~s elected by their peers due to their contrib1.1tions on campus and in the comnnmity. All of the models are working hard and rehearsing 2-3 times per week in preJ)aratio~ for this weekend's show. After .speakin~ to members. of the executive committee, com• prised or only eigl\t students and nQ advisors;: it was obviQl,JS that they have:workeddiligentlyto pull everythiag together in hopes ofa spectac1.1lar presemtation. Sloane Silver, a member of the executive commiUeeand a founder oftbe event, commented, \It is an exciting event where all members ofUniom's comm11nity are present either in the audience or the show. The fitnand exciting event ~tarts off with a performance by Union's dance team. This will be followed by a traditional solo act by 'senior Christine Bauer . Also, a DJ from Skidmeire will be playing th.e most current music. With su.chan exciting combination of perfonners and ,contributors, it is n.<> ·wonder that Brae lin Pantel acclai!lled' it as one of the most popular events on campus. It is .not only an alteritlative event at U11ion, but is for a great cause, aclded Emily Becker. Many designers and stores are ex:cited to be able to participate in such an entertaini11g event that is also for a great ca.u.se. Designers from marc buhanell pelle pelle and Vera Wang will take parta:tongwith vari()us stores from the capital dis- trict including Christopbers, Old Navy, EMS, l'ommy Hilfiger,and ma11ymore. Numerous stores. are offering discounts to those whO come to the show. For example, EMS of- . fers a 20% discount and Christopllers will distribute cou- pons for a .free tie with your next purchase ()fa suit or sport coat. Tickets will be on salethisweek in the Campus Center for five dol- lars, or can be purchased at the doo-r for seven dollars the night of the show. Students are encour- aged to buy tickets even if :they are unable to attend, because ev• ery contribution counts, added Sloane Silver .. AU donati()ns can be made out to Union's Fashion Sh()W of Support. Everyone irivolved in the pro- duc1ion of this reputable event is . excited forth is weekend. \Union's Fasltion Show of Support is the ()Oly event like it on campus which makes it very unique,'~ said Braelin Pantel. Students cannot _go wreng by attending this chari- table, event which promises to be exciting and entertaining. Come this to Memorial Chapel at 8 :00 PM to show your support .. David Gryzbowski commented, \We know that the area around the campus center is a sore spot for parking. These new spaces are an attempt to ease frustration.\ Gryzbowski hopes that people will not abuse the privilege of having limited~time spots. The amount of time one remains in the space will be left up to the honor code of·the driver. He also warns that cars left lack th~ cross~etched stripping re- quired l>y this same code. These spaces that separate ·each handi- capped spot are a necessity be- cause tlley allow room for an indi- vidual in a wheelchair to exit his/ her ve:hicle. Gryzbowski com- mented, .. We are aware oftheprob- lem and will take care of-it.\ My only question is when? It seems to me that there are an awful lot of New parking spaces outsid~ the Reamer Campus Center. in the loading dock (in spaces marked 'No Parking') will still be ticketed as usual. Parking on Union became an even biggerproblem when the 01 in Center was built. According to Gryzbowski, \When you renovat~ or add a building, handi<:apped_. spaces a~e. requiredbycode.\ Because of this law, the only two spots available anywhere near the Reamer Center are both handicapped. h1te.rest- ingly ·enough, there are many · handicapped spots on campus that spaces designated as handicapped that are not \up to code.\ On a more positive note, the idea for more parking in this area was one V()iced mostly by students. Security and Facilities Services learned ()f this problematic issue at the Leadership Conference this pastweek · ·· · · · · I encot~rage everyone on earn- pus to voice your complaints and s~ggestioris. Fonhe good of the campus, the same people who love to ticket your cars are listening to your comments. Student Forunt Notes Wed.Aprill4, 1999, 7:30PM. $2000 to UCARE. WRUC de- nied reallocation of funds. Wi11 get $next yeClf. Concordy to get money to print issues. UMMED asking f<lr $ from Student Forum. Difficulty with allocation ofthis $. Suggested that President Hull assist with money. Cash prizes should not be done. Should be restrictions/roles on cash prizes. All clubs need $ sheets in by Friday, May 7. Spring Fest coming along. GMI 200 class, organizational behavi()r new for juniors and seniors. Prob- lem with distribution of classes. Union Unite going well. Satur- day, April 17, closing party at 0 ld Chapel, 9pm. Queer Awareness Week beginning Wed, April 14. ASU and Shakti fashion show situ- ation with prohibition of annual off- campus restaurant cooking food. Policy by Marriott-food must be cooked here. Possibility to notifY Dean Alford of situation. Elections Thursday May 6. VP fundraisingsearch for school. Visit early May. Mond~y April 19, Stillman nomination meeting. Petitions given, Monday, April 26. Petitions due, Friday April30. Concordy articles due Sunday May 2 at ~pm. Elections for Forum Ex~ ecutive Board Thursday May 6. Class Office Elections. Petitions given Monday May l 0. Petitions due Friday May. Articies to Concor-<l:y May 16 by 2 pm. Elec- tions fo.r Class Office May 21 .. Greek formal May l at Holiday Inn. MSWalkSunday AprillR Self defense:w<>rkshops coming.Tri Delta given SOT's house. Rosters due Af'ril 23, some houses given extensi'()llS. Possible event after midtenns. Bar•b-q April 23 from 4-7 at Chets. Working on senior dinner, gift, se11ior week. Selling ducks. Friday, senior gift meeting. Wednesday junior 9hets night. Clothes drive 4th week-donations to Kosovo victims. Booth fundraiSi11g-$ to Red Cross for as- sistance in Kosovo. Yulman Theater Report. Information given on Cabaret situation and Diane Sadak, direc- tor of show. Large space-Bill Finley advisor of theater dept and lim its usage oflarge space. Principal of problem with Finley monopoly overU11ion.students' theater. Write letter tc Finley from Student F()- rum. S.1udent paid for production of play, but received little parts in production. Auditions made pub- lic-not a community show. Use of theater ~pace inappropriately del- egated.. Not in original theater plans.

Trouble· Stirring at Yulman ... continued from p·age 1 Candid Shots Display Union Faces On the Web: by Clark Jones Contributing Writer colleges wanting to model our Granted, the majority of high • sued the possibility oftnllsi:calthe~ Alford responded that he knows · idea,\ Morse commented in are- school seniors usuall;y make that 1 • ater at Union, sent a11 e-mail to \very little about the issue. I've cent interview. trek tl> Schenectady, but for those • Finlay, Professor Hitlary l'ann, only had. two or three students Every few seconds, a new can- Vice president of Admissions who cannot, the screen savers_of- .. Chair of the Performillg Arts De- come to talk to me about it, and did of one of Union's students Dan Lundquist echoed that senti- fer a wonderful delineation of the :. partment, and Dean Linda Cool. that was before break. I put all flashes on the computer. With the ment wbe11 he stated, \They've college. , They expressed tltatthey were \not three in touch with Bill Finlay, who number of people at the school, been a huge hit. I'm proud of how Tltis will be a tremendous de- : · merely complailli!lg because we was only too· happy to speak to one of the pictures could be of you! they've been received.\ vice for the recruitment of interna- ; were not given roles, but the way them.\ Union's Webmaster for Public The new discs, compatible only tiona! students, as Union contin- . things were handled f()r Cabaret \It's really a long and compli- Relations, Saul Morse, re- ues to augment its diversity . was inappropriate ami unprofes- cated story that many are not re- cently completed an exciting..-------------------. as we enter the new millen- ' sional.\ Leif also C<>rnmentedthat ally aware of;\ Sadak said. \In the new project. · .nium. she felt \the auditions were poorly future, policy needs to be set re- Peter Blankman,. who \The {Union] Not only has this bios- : timed, and we had no knowledge garding casting. Had their .. been works in the office ofPublic sorned into a remarkable re- : of outside students. The pr()blem some kind of pelicy in place, we Relations, went around SCreensaver Wi/( be a cruitingtool,thescreens!lV-: was the guest director was under certainlywouldhavefollowedit.\ Union's campus taking pic-· tremendOUS mechanism ers a:t:e beneficial to Union : .pressure to make it good; musical Smitb also mentioned, \It sh.otlld tures with his digital camera. graduates. Morse expressed • theater is not popu'iar with those made clear the decisions on the He then transported these for the reC:rUiting of pro- this new idea as a wonder- • who run the theater. Because of whole processarenotmade by just pictures into his computer ful \reminder ofthe beauti- : that, she felt.shehadte gettbe best Diane Sadak or Bill Finlay or any and gave them to Marse to SpectiVe StUdents,. as the ful campus they once lived people, not necessarily Union stu- one person, but by the entire the ... compile. St.,.~en· f.·t:o Wl.'l h \he · in.\ dents, who were willi11g to work ater faculty.\ Sadak confidently Morse created an assem- . . NUl .. · .::1 ll . ave '\ Furthermore, he empha- . hard to make it the best. Cabaret expressed that she felt a policy blage of new screen saverS. ' capacity of seeing union · sized that many graduates could have beend<>ne very well if WOUld be decided UpQll for future These pictures display nu- have taken on lives far away • it was an all-Union cast.\ productions. With regards to any merouscomelyphotographs before they m,ake the fromNewYorkandcannot · On the other side, Professor kindofpolicyaffectingthecurrent ofUnion College's campus.. · visit the campus regularly. Barry Smith of the Theater Arts situation, Smith stated, \Tomakea He contrived these screen trek ffl .Schenectady\ Within the near future, . · .Oepartment commented~ \lthink policy ch~ge in the middle ofpro ... savers in his free time, and these screen savers will be ~ every ·opportunity and effort was ducti.on fs inappropriateand would acknowledged that the...._ ___________________ _..available for students to: made to include Uni()n students. beaverybadPRmove. HerePresi- project was \very enjoyable.\ ·to Windows 95 or later {not Mac), download oHto their computers. : Unfortun·ate ly, a few students dent Hull is trying to reach out to It was a relatively painless and are a tremendous addition to the Morse projected this to take place have lost perspective ()D the issue. · tfie c'Ommunity, and we at the the- \cost-effectiveprocess\forMorse, school's recruiting capability, sometime in Mayor June. R~ther than see this as an oppor~ ater would close the community who put together this conglomera- whether it was a conscious deci- Moreover, the!le discs (housing · tunity to include the community, out? !J'hiJ.t's counter-productive.\ tion of photographs for several rea- sion or not. the screen savers)will be available . they've lost perspective ... a large Sadak feels the collaboration sons. \Initially we set this up as a The screen savers will be a tre- at some point to the general pub· · percentage of the cast remains between students of the different way to display some traditional pic- mendous mechanism for the re- lie. \We'll make the discs avail- ; Ullion students. There was cer- schools and people from the com- tures of the college,\ Morse as- cruiting of prospective students, able to the general public some- tainly no interest or intent to bring mo.nity could be really helpful and. serted. as the students will have the capa- where in the near future. We hope in 'outsiders' to replaceUnion tal- end up benefiting all involved. \I However, following the produc- bility of seeing Union before they . that they will remain a success,\ ene' really do hope something positive tionof8,000ofthesediscs,thisin- make the trek to Schenectady. Morsedeclared. . Gina Riando, one ofth.e non- inthisregardcomesoutofallthis.\ novative concept has turned into \This is a. great way for pro spec- If the recent popularity of the · Union students intbe cast, said,.\I Sadak holds open rehearsals ev- an exceptionaltool for Admissions tive stlldents to get an accurate scr:.een savers is any indication of knew o.fthe audition because itvvas ery Mon4ay to Friday froll:i'? to l I and Public Relations. \Wehavere- look at wllat Union's campus has their future, they will be very sue- listed in the Scilenet:tady PM -at the theater, and ~gain on ceived numerous calls tram other tooffer,\Morseproclaimed. cessful. Gazette .. .Ihaveheardofthenega- Saturdays from 10 to 2 PM. She -------------------------------- ................ - ........ _ __..--1 tive feelingsaboutcasting.sec()nd- encourages everyone and anyone Baroque Dancers Bring Culture to College hand, I have not eX:perienced it. who is interested to come and Evtlryone in the cast is wonderful, watch and see how they ar~ going.. by Gina Campanella Staff Writer were perf-ormed by two very tal- ented dancers as an equally tal- ented vocal ensemble sang. The dancers wore elaborate pe- riod costumes and executed eacli and, they have been 11othing but Th.e next step in production is Malthouse. Each of these per• • . supportive.\ figuring out the musicians. \We formers sang their part in the Ian- . The Student Forum bas also be- are limited jn time and space fw guage in which they were written, · come involved in the s·i~uation. · musicians, and we may end up hit;.: however, just before they sang, ~ F~turn President Beth ~iettbienjec i~g tJtrye .or four professionals, they translated the verse into En~ • ·said on .. Monday.titat -:tlie ·Foriitn ,. hopefully not mor-e. Tilts is com-, . AU that the youth of today seem rhythmic :combination in time with glish for the audience. tladn 't 1 reached a <:oasensus but monly done becallSe professioit- to require out of a good dance-song . one anotller. Each piece that was performed ,\Vould.by Wednesday. ·~'The prop.. als can play three.differ~Bt instru ... is a· severely peunding.--------------------:--.,displayed a. diff.erent .• .lein-we see. is ·tbis is ,a pro.gr.arn ments, notJust one .. But .nothing baseline. One can't help · rhythmic contribution to ·. ifunded with Unionrn!JlltY. in which has been decided ·on this yet;'~ she bu~ wonder what people -''TP_·'I·e m· a'e- an·: ·d. ,l:e_ .· . .,.,. .n. le baroque dance. The male -•· th~ principal leads ha;ve go~e-to· con~luded. \Wehaveh.eardfrom. da~cedtobeforethedawn .4.ll 11 .1' .,,... andfemale-piutnersmir-,.· non:.:.union students. Yet Union afeyv stud~t-s. bUtwe'dilove t() offbe amplifier. . p· artnerS mit:rored. e~Ch rored each other's move- : '• students pay for -tb~ fund1ng .f<ir fteatfi\oin more.\ Sadakthorougbly One could have .an- -ments, allowing~- the theater and <Jther pragrams, encourages any Unionstudentmtt• sweredthisquestion ifthey ··Other'S mO'VementS a//OW- improvisition in theform .·. Anotherprohlemw.esee iswitlue•. · .sicians interested in participating chose to go to MemqriaJ • • • • '• of solo dancing. · gard to the tnally st11dents who to~~ntactB~UFinlayat·the '{ulman Chapel last Friday night at tng -lmprOVlSQllOn ln the .It was explained that · have want~d to use theater .sl).ace Theater as quickly as possible. 8 PM. quite a few ofthe.pieces · forotheractivities.andarecontinu- [s the issue at an end? Welch The Union College De- /Ofln Of S0/0 performedwereimprovi· allydenied. Yetherewebavenon· said, \Ihear-dtheagreemelitisthat partment of Performing sational pieces intended • Union students esseiltially being everybody realizes mistakes were Arts presented a program dancing ... {Baroque foronecoupletotakethe • allowed to use that space?'! mad-e and they won't be made called German Dances at center of the dance floor . When the cast list was released, again.;' Smith feels \very sad be- the Dawn ofthe Baroque. dance] iS af/ abOUt ryfhm and \show off.\ These • many students were upset. One causelthinkthe issue has become 'Baroque' is a word used , dances were more for the father wrote a letter to President so distorted. 1 have always felt tonameahistoricalartistic and ShOWing off. enjoymentofthespecta- Hullabouttheissue,andDeanCool Union students should ltave ev- period. This period began tors than of the actual · spoke to Finlay and th~ other the- ery opportunity to participate, .and in Italy in the late 16th cen- '--------------------.....,dancers. ater faculty. I think every opportunity and ef- tury. It continued to sweep through The male dancer was Ken Pierce. So, what connections can we If this happened a few weeks fort was made to include Union stu- Europe throughout the I71h century Mr. Pierce js director of the Ken draw between dance oftoday and ·. ago, why is it just coming to light de.nts.\ · and even continued into the l8 1 h Pierce Baroque Dance Company dance@ftheBaroque? ltsallabout now? Variousmembersofthestu· Wierzbieniecsaidthattll.eForutn century in some areas. and has clloreographed many cred- rhythm, and showing off. How- dent government affirtnedthat this was •'investigating the facts and a The program included a thor- ited performances. ever, that is about all that connects · is the way things usually happen, . letter is currently being written, ough explanation ofthemanycom- His female counterpart was the two. The dance is peaceful. peopletalkamongsttbems.elves for copies. of which will be sent to ponents of German Baroque song MelindaSallivan. Ms. Sullivan is and represents the time period a while 'before ··it spreads. Pre~iden:t Hull,. Dean Alf<>rd, and and dance by the narrator, Dianne a Boston..;based dancer who has veryappropriately. · Wierzbieniec said last week's Fo- Bill Finlay ... Hopefullythiswill all M.McMullen, been teaching .. her art for over thiseventwasthefinalinstall-: rum meeting \was actually the be finalized on Wednesday.;' Professor McMullen explained twelve years. Some ofthe institu- mentin along series of workshops . third week in a vow we've dis- · Sadak said that from talking to the many different rhythmic paths tions at which she has taught in- and performances put on by the · cussed .the issue, but. we wanted \m~ny students, they are feeling the composer could choose to take elude the Boston Conservatory O~partment of Performing Arts. to make suh~ we' :had the, complete positive .now as opposed to the in each piece. It was this rhythm and MIT. ·Union would like to thank the · story and all the facts.~' SAC rep- start, when many people were de:.. that dictated the dance that was per- The vocal ensemble consisted danC'ers and all of those who en- . resentative Josh Chaplin said, \the. ie~s~v(;'! and' shaky.'' formed. ofValerieLord, Gwen A. Pykett, joyed.:a beautiful evening of art · SAC will' be discussi11g.it shortly In themeantimel work continues The dances, onc.e e.xplained, Dan Foster~ John Lopez and John and c:ulture. · in tlte future.\' Whettasked; Dean on tlae production. ;!!

i ! .j ! • -, . . ' SPONSORED BY THE UNION COLLEGE ENVIRONMENTAL SOClETY ··22 -EARTHDAY ''CHANGINGTHEEARTHONEPLACEAT A TIME'' TALKBYPROFESSOR WILLIAM VITEK LOCATED IN CAMPUS CENTER AUDITORIUM AT 7PM REFRESHMENTS AFTERWARDS , 24- RE- TREE S·CH.ENECT ADY-- BARE ROOT TREEPLANTINGOF AUTUMN PURPLE ASHES AND CRABAPPLES OFF NOTT ST. VAN LEAVES AT 8:45AM FROM THE CAMPUS CENTER © . . ' . ! •. 2.6.~·EARTHDAYLOBBYDAY----: GO TO'ALBANY AND LOBBY THE NYT STATE LEGISLA ~ .. ' \·· ... · TURE FOR UPCOMING BILLS WITH THE-AREA'S MOST . ' ... PROMINENT ENVIRONMENTALISTS 1 OAM -12PM . i VAN LEA VESAT 9AM FROM CAMPUS CENTER ' ' . ' . - . - . . ' . ~. . . ~ , -,,.. . . . ' ' . ' ' ' : •• ' t ~·· ? • . ! . ! ~ ~ : i; ··~ ~- ~ . . ! ' - . ; • l ~ ' • i • I' • • • ·~ ' • ~ ' . . I· • . • . ~ • \ . • : l . I :·:29-LOCALENVIRONMENTALORGANIZATIONS- -·· ·· · · . PRoMoTING cDiliNT rssuEs IN THE CAMPUS CENTER ALLDAY~ .. :· .· . · ! ''UNDERSTANDING THE EARTH: BALLSTON LAKE AS RE- CORDER OF ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGE''- · TALK BY PAUL Te GREMILLION LOCATED IN OLIN 115 AT .· 5PM. FINAL CELEBRATION- COOKOUT OUTSIDE THE CAMPUS CENTER WITH - ENTERTAINMENT . · 6-8PM

Dialouge on Homosexuality F .R.E.D. Makes His Seasonal Comeback Union's Need to Offer Safe Atmosphere for Gays by Lisa Carbone Staff Writer Why is homophobia so ram- pant? This is a vital question across. the country, especially on college campuses such as Union. The problem of homosexual dis- crimination at Union appears to be one of the biggest issues ·.that the student body needs to face. According to a recent survey on diversity at Union, students felt that this was one of the four most important topics that desperately needs t() be addressed. Unfortunately, many feel that it is purp()sely overlooked and avoided. Last Tllursday, \Dialogues on Homophobia\ was held in Old Chapel. lfhis was the last of the four issues needing to be dis- cussed at Union, but was very timely, because Wednesday started Queer Visibility Week. It was put on by the Union Unite Committee, UBGLAD, MAG, Peer Facilitators, and lEG. The dialogue started off with a documentary which was intended to get pe<>ple talking. This video was put together in 1996 by Mereditb Miller, who graduated from Union in 1997. In the documentary, college stu- dents state that they homosexual, when they came out, who knows, and their feelings about this criti- cal step. It ~lso.informed- viewers of statistics. F~r instance~one in every ten people is gay, lesbian, or bisexuaL Another statistic which sur- prised many of th~ ~tudents who attended was that 33%.6f teens who actually go through with commit- ting suicide are gay, lesbian, bi- sexual, or questioning their sexu- . ality. Students in the vide() were from area schools including Skidmore, RPI, St. Rose, and SUNY Albany. Altho11g1l no students. from Union . appear in the filrn, the clips of taunting, scorn fu I graffiti were taken,from Union'scampus. Its in- tent was to stress the need for Queer Visibility and the importance of recognizing how hard it is to come out, because of the stigma on campuses. Following the film, there was a discussion among students and professors who attended. Many students were open to the discus- sion a11d felt that this is something not talked about in class, because it fosters an uncomfortable envi- ronment. One student commented, \It's about talking and educating, not about changing people's opin~ ions.\ by Lee Stevens Contributing Writer Everybody's favorite four- wheeled friend is back for Spring Term. FRED has been speeding through campus these past c0uple weeks and will continue to provide refreshing beverages and snacks to the college community. FRED was born in the fall of1997, but he had no one to drive him ll,ptil after Dinning Services went through a vigorous interview pro- cess. At that point, they gave the ·job to Kathy Georgelas in the spring of 1998. Geotgelas was named FRED's new pilot. The next thing FRED needed was a name. What do you call a motorized golf cart that serves the people at Union with much-needed drinks? Cory Fast, Ready, Easy Dutch makes his Spring debut. A contest was developed by popsicles for the famished stu- ceive a gift certificate to a local Dinning services. The prize was a dents. restaurant. The recipe to beat this Mally agreed that people are mountain bikevaluedatover350 PartyboyBryanYackelhadthis yearlookslikeitwillbeJedCahill's. afraid to defend ga-ys and lesbians, dollars to the person who could suggestion for Dinning services. chowder, a popular dish that that because they are afraid of being · solve the mystery of what to call \They should get a Chefs cart to has a lot oftlavor. percei-ved as being homosexual· thissillylittlewagon.InventorMatt followmearoundonweekends.\ If you·want the secret behind themselves. Smith won the bike with the fol- Although Dinning services has these re&;ipes, they can be found \Union needs to be made a safe lowing four letters: FRED; Fast, !10 plan for a Chet's cart, a lobster in the fourth editiQn of Union Col- space by making sure that students Ready, Easy, Dutch. hash is in the makings for May 14. lege Dinning -Services \Recipes are aware and awake to their sur- FRED has no formal route; he From 5 PM to 7 PM, Dinning ser- From Home'; (::ookbook, available roundings and how actions impact · just drives around campus aim- vices will offer an all you can eat at Dinning services. feelings,\ said anotber student. lessly looking for thirsty students. lobster l>uffet behind the college Sophomore_ Davi<;l Waldstein. The<>verall feeli11gwas that ifwe FREDdoesmakesome specifi~t center, with a live bandto rock the mentioned, \Mymorri's Tortellini do notjlldge others, people will be stops; if you would like him to s'J;op night away: Soup should also be in close con- more apt to talk about this issue. outside your class during a break, .,,. · Parent's Weekend is right terition for this year's prize.\ Mrs. Although this issue appears· you can contact Dinning services around the corner. If you want to Wal~st~in's soup is one of the critically in need of discussion on . andthey wiJl suffice your appetite. take mom and dad out for a home !JlatiYf~tipes fe~Jt~pd in this coo~J Union, s Campus, everyone seemed Next fall FRED also plans to ven- .,~cooked if!~al, stop ;by Upper class l>ook,r:,, : ~-, \ · ·. -'' . very feceptive anclexpre~sed con..: ture down to Seward place to hit · DiQning Hall on May 8. The meal Director of Dinning services, cern allout getting people to rec- . the new apartments. FRED c~ie~} ;.wiiJ.consists of all student submit- Steve Pearse said in_ addition to ognize and change the stereotypes a wide variety of drinks, alorigwith ted recipes for you imd the family these upcoming events, students on campus. sandwiches, bagels, cereal, chips to choose from. can all look forward to Western~ The clialogue was a significant and yogurt. When the weather At the end of the meal, every- Mardi. Gras,. and Caribb~an night step i11 attempts t9 bring diversity starts warming-up, FREDdie also one will·be asked to vote on thei~;- . whiGq ~iii 'aU;:take pla~e 'ag~n at to Uni<>n. !topes to carry ice cream M)d 1 fayoriter~cipe. ThewinnerwiUre- Westali\\ninghallnextyear. , • •• :<,.,. ~. .. . .. • ~ :. £ ,: . ~- . .F. j t ~ ·~~, Union· Unite Comes to an End WRUC . B k~ ~; IS ac 'J~. by Erin Connoly Staff Writer Through time it has been shown that issues that are not~lked about and left to fester tear communities apart. To prevent this lack of com- municati()n, a series of dialogues were introduced on tbe campus about race relations entitled Union Unite. Many different organizations such as theme houses and Greek societies donated their time and space t() help the dialogues move s~oothly. The setting was that of a confortable living room talk. All were welcomed to come and share their opinions. To help the dialogues to run smoothly and to allow everyone to have a chance to participate, stu- dent facilitators were present at all of the dialogues. The student fa- cilitators were impartial mediators of the conversation that took place. Each dialogue took about an hour, though the official stopping time was not enforced and tile conver- sations were allowed to take their course. To vvrap up the dialogues a party was held in Old Cnapel on Satur- day. After a fashi()nably late start to due totechnical difficulty (a.k.a. a late DJ) the part)' was a success- ful closing to the ~dialogues, Yet,· .: the gathering was not your typiCal . ·. Old Chapel event. · Upon entering the door, one was greetedwithalayand aroom thick with mllsic. The food served was that of all different cultures. Beth, ~ · an organizer of the event, illus- trated tile importance of diversity coming 1hough in 1he theme of the party. \Unity in the song, mu~ic and dec<Jrations was .very impor- tant to as. Our goal is to represent all cultures tonigll.t.\ The most interesting part of the party was the elaborate costumes that people were wearing. They ranged from fairy godmothers to card men right out of Alice in Won- derlan<L Yet, even witll. the whimsical spirit of the party, it was clear that the dialogues had a large impact of the community ofUnion. Many at the party agreed that this year the dialogues were much more stlccessful and that the topic was well chosen. ,._ c~ .. J : ~;~~ i! f~>- ... and Better than EVer •: . ··:..•, Courtesy of Asher Nichols Members of WRUC cover the Idol with humper stickers during a recent late night adventure. l

Advertisem~ts oioncarm~11sis •~Aprif~2l-, -i999 • Page7 ' . . • e_. Lr -- Benefitting the · Make-a- · · ish ·.·F·oundation - . ' .- · · · · · • ·• · •· ·Come support .. · . · your fellow students! . April 24, 1999 8:.0.0PM Memorial Chapel

Freedom o·Jf Press More than two hundred years ago an amendment to the Constitution was written. h was the first amendment in the Bill of Rights and it read, \Congress sh.all make no law respecting ~nestablishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; <Jl:\ abridging the freedom of. speech, or.()fthe press; or the right of the .people peaceably to assemble, • and to petition the government for the red11ess of grievances.\ After the passing oftllis bill into law, William Blackstone, who wrote · series of Commentaries on English law and early American Constitu- ' tiona! law, noted, \The liberty of the pres~ is indeed essential to the nature ofafiee state. Every man has an un~ollbted right to lay whatever • sentiments be pleases before the public; t~ forbid this is to destroy the ' freedom of the press.\ This aspect of the Constitution is obviotJsly a valuable commodity for journalists throughout America who •t~se their writing to explain their viewp()ints. It is a form ofexpressio11: for these people, much like · art, dance,. song and sports. They rely on their ability to write as an outlet for their thoughts, feelings and ideas. At Concordiensis we employ select secti()m of the newspaper in which creative and expressive writing is utilized and, more importantly, en- couraged. The two sections in which artis1ic contributions are accepted · are Features and Op-Ed. In Concordiensis features includes a variety of pieces ranging from short stories and weekJy commentaries to inves .. tigative articles on schoel issues and top-tell lists. The Op-Ed section, which is the nickname for \Opinions and Editorials,\ is slightly differ- ent from Features in that it includes letterst.o the editor and opinionated pieces by the staff of the newspaper as we!l as contributing writers. Last week an article ran in the Op-Ed sedi<>n that explained the events of a prospective student's weekend visit a1 the College. The piece re- ferred to the loss of housing and other privileges for a sorority on cam- pus. It also described the reaction that S()me of the sisters had upon learning that an article was written about tiDe situation, The aforemen- tioned reaction entailed the theft of hundrceds of newspapers, some of which we1:e burned. Because efthis article, various members <>fthe newspaper staffhave received threatening voicemails and have been confronted inappropri- ately by rnetnbers of the campus commu11.ity who do not approve of the article nor its content. ~ The staff.of Concordiensis is disturbeclby this scenario. However, it is imperative to note we are not upset that stlldents are reacting. In actu- ality, we are troubled by the method in which certain students are han- dling the situation. We encourage all students to express their views. and concerns about the newspaper eithel:\through discussion or corre- spondence. Yet, we do not condone the til;reats we have received, be- cause they are not only immature but als() clisrespectful of our privilege to adhere to the Bill of Rights. These acts s~1nply demonstrate the disre- gard and irreverence that some members of the College community have for our publication. For those of you who question our publication our challenge to you is this: use y()ur freedom of speech. Utilize your ability to write to de- nounce ()Ur writing skills, criticize our writers or chastise our articles. But do notinfringe upon ()Uf rights as a nel\.'s.paper as well as journalists to express ()Urselves. We value this right a:.nd so should you. BMB Letter Policy & Disclaimer · Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the tED pag~ an4 must be received by 5 PM th~ • \ 11 '~'\1\'\' 11 '·~\''. before ,publication. Letters must be less ltna~n- .. $()() W9-r4s ancJ. should p~rtain to an issue ....... \'.\. lcoltlce_n. :·'>1-s,. ··the ·union College community. Final tueots:i.(Jl!ii$' · c()noerning and/or editing t:i(llt(l.lttal Boar(f.' .JI Opinions Behavior Inappropriate at NCUR '99 This past week over 2100stu- dents and faculty from aCF()SS the nation descended on Rochester for NCUR 99. Fifty-five ofthese stu- dents came from Union College and, as is always the case, their presentations were very stmn~, thereby reflecting favorably on the cemmitment that the coHege places on undergraduate scholarly activity. However, there was a dis- appo,inting \downside\ to Union's participation at • NCUR 99. For some reason, many Union students failed to understand what participation at a conf~rence like NCUR re- ally implies. A significant fraction ofthe Union contin- gent felt it was acceptable to drop in on a portion of the conference, rather than attend the fuH conference. Consider the following: At least one student, and prob- ab.ly several more, stayed at NCUR only long enough to give her presentation. There is a rumor from a reliable source that some Union students never showed up for their presen- tati()ns. We urge faculty mentors who sponsored NCUR students to ask these students if they did ful~ fill their commitment. The college paid for banquet tickets for all 55 students at $25/ head. No more than 20 Union stu- dents attended the banquet. More- over, students from other schools were turned away because the ban- quet was thought to be sold out. The college lost about $50/night for each student who ch()se not to stay at the conference. Union had 29 moms reservecl for the first night at double occupancy; 16 were actually used, and only one room had three students. Only 16 students returned to Union on the bus atthe conclusion <Jftbe conference. Several students left the hotel witi10ut paying their parking and ph()ne bills. It is puzzling to us why students could not recognize that the college's commitment to pay their registration ($135/student), room ami board, including banquet tick- ets, and travel creates a compen- satory obligation on their part to participate fully in the conference. But even more troubling is the lack of professionalism and collegial- ity thatthis behavior demonstrates. Participants at conferences such as NCl!R have a duty to their fellow presenters to ensure an attentive and interested audience. Those who choose to \talk-and- walk\ exhibit a disturbing lapse of professional integrity and intellec- tual curiosity. Perhaps we should have anticipated the$e prob- lems, giventhecloseproxim- ity of Schenectady and Roch- ester. For the next three years, NCUR participation will re- quire air travel, so students will not-have the luxury of coming and leaving when they please. Nonetheless, the legacy of NCUR ')9 is that we, as faculty mentors, are going to have to do a much more ef- fective job in communicating proper conference etiquette to our students. Finally, we !lope that those stu- dents who abused the privilege of NCUR participation will recognize this fact and modify their behav- ior in an appropriate manner when they attend future conferences. Sincerely, Tom Werner- Chemistry Ashraf Ghaly - Civil Eng. Mike Hagerman- Chemistry Brad Lewis- Associate Dean Join ConCordy'S Stoff · '··c· · · · d.. · · · 1 · k. f · · d , \On~o:r: > ·~n$:ts •s :O() : tng - .,o.r .stu_, .·. ent~. · o help with the paper. Tons of peop ;a.re· Wan.ted:J fro-m w .. riters to .e.ditors, · to ad·vertising ma-nagers. Everyone is welcome and no experience whatsoever is needed Thursday, 6:00 PM, Room 303, College Center .. B.e there. ( oJ fi: a: I fc ]( fr fa s~ ec N St N \ s st SJ tc p il II a1 v VI d t( t< IT IT IT ' tl 0 c b J 1l v ( r t (

Freedom of Press More than tv;o hundred years ago an amendment to the Constitution was written. It was the first amendment in the Bill GfRights and it read, \Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of ~peech, or of the press: or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition tbe government for the redress of grievances.\ Atter the passing {)fthis bill into law, William Blackstone, who wrote series of Commentaries on English law and early American Constitu- tional law, 11oted, ··ne liberty of the press is indeed essential to the nature of a tree state. Every man has an undoubted right to lay whatever sentiments he pleases before the public; to forbid this is to destroy the freedom oft he press.\ This aspect of the C(1nstitution is obviously a valuable commodity J()r journalists throughout America who use their writing to explain their viewp()ints. It is a form or expression for these people, much like art, dance, song and sports. They rely on their ability to write as an outlet for their thoughts, feelings and ideas. At C 'oncordiensis we employ select sections ofthe newspaper in which creative and expressive writing is utilized and, rnore importantly, en- couraged. 'The two sections in which artistic contributions are accepted are Features and Op-Ed. In Concordiensis Features includes a variety of pieces ranging frmn short stories and weekly commentaries to inves- tigative articles on school issues and top-ten lists. The Op-Ed section, which is the nickname for \Opinions and Editorials,\ is slightly differ- ent from Features in that it includes letters to the editor and opinionated pieces by the staff of the newspaper as well as contributing writers. Last week an article ran in the Op-Ed section that explained the events of a prospective student's weekend visit at the College. The piece re- ferred to the loss of housing and other privileges for a sorority on cam- pus. It also described the reaction that some of the sisters had upon learning that an artie le was written about the situation. The aforemen- tioned reaction entailed the theft of hundreds of 11ewspapers, some of which were burned. Because ()fth is article, various members of the newspaper staff have received threatening voicemails and have been confronted inappropri- ately by members of the campus community who dG not approve ofthe article nor its content. - The staff of Concordiensis is disturbed by this scenario. However, it is imperative to note we are not upset that students are reacting. In actu- ality, we are troubled by the method in which certain students are han- dling the situation. We encourage all students to express their views and concems about the newspaper either through discussion or corre- spondence. Yet, we do not condone the threats we have received, be- cause they are not only immature but also disrespectful of our privilege to adhere to the Bill of Rights. These acts simply demonstrate the disre- gard and irreverence that some members of the College community have for our publication. For those of you who question our publication our challenge to you is this: use your freedom of speech. Utilize your ability to write to de- nounce our writing skills, criticize our writers or chastise our articles. But do not infringe upon our rights as a newspaper as well as journalists to express ourselves. We value this right and so should you. BMB Letter Policy & Disclaimer Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP/ED page and must be received by 5 PM the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns th.e Union College community. Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed and saved on a high density disk, alth.ough the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifi~s. Letters do no1necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. Editocials~r~fleetthe.·gpinion .of a majority of he Editorial· Board,::, and of no ~ne- member in articular.· Atiy opin:ioll c.olumils or cartoon~ reflect the' opinions. ofthe writers or artists, . and not necessarily the opin.i~ns Qf the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board. .l Concordiensis is printed by W orlg Media, 1104 Central Avenue, Alban , NY, 12205. di>/£6 Opinions Behavior Inappropriate at NCUR '99 This past -week over 2100 stu- dents and facu lt:y from across the nation descended on Rochester for NCUR 99. Fifty-five ofthese stu- dents came from Union College and, as is always the case, their presentations were very strong, thereby reflecting favorably on the commitment that the college places on undergraduate scholarly activity. However, there was a dis- appointing \downside\ to Union's participation at .. NCUR 99. For some reason, many Union students failed to understand what participation at a conference like NCUR re- ally implies. A significant fraction of the Union contin- gent felt it was acceptable to drop in on a portion of the conference, rather than attend the full conference. Consider the following: At least one student, and prob- ably several more, stayed at NCUR only long enough to give her presentation. There is a rumor from a reliable source that so1ne Union students never showed up for their presen- tations. We urge faculty mentors who sponsored NCUR students to ask these students if they did ful- fill their commitment. The college paid for banquet tickets for all 55 students at $25/ head. No more 1han 20 Union stu- dents attended the banquet. More- over, students from other schools were turned away because the ban- quet was thought to be sold out. The college lost about $50/night for each student who chose not to stay at the conference. Union had 29 rooms reserved for title first night at double occupancy; 16 were actually used, and only one room had three students. Only 16 students returned to Union on the bus at the conclusion of the conference. Several students left the hotel without paying their parking and phone bills. It is puzzling to us why students could not recognize that the college's commitment to pay their registration ($135/student), room and board, including banquet tick- ets, and travel creates a compen- satory obligation on their part to participate fully in the conference. But even more troubling is the lack of professionalism and collegial- ity that this behavior demonstrates. Participa11ts at conferences such as NC~R h<tve a duty to their fellow presenters to ensure an attentive and interested audience. Those who choose to \talk-and- walk\ exhibit a disturbing lapse of professi{)nal integrity and intellec- tual curiosity. Perhaps we should have anticipated these prob- lerns, given the close proxim- ity ofSchenectady and Roch- ester. For the next three years, NCUR participation will re- quire air travel. so students will not have the luxury of coming and leaving when they please. Nonetheless, the legacy of NCUR 99 is that we, as faculty mentors, are going to ha'Ve to do a much more ef- fective job in communicating proper conference etiquette to our students. Finally, we hope that those stu- dents who abused the privilege of NCUR participation will recognize this fact and modify their behav- ior in a11 appropriate manner when they attend future conferences. Sincerely, Tom Werner - Chemistry Ashraf Ghaly- Civil Eng. Mike Hagerman - Chemistry Brad Lewis- Associate Dean A Message From Safe Space \Why Women Don't RepC>rt Rape',. Women don't report rape because tbey feel embarrassed to have to say in front &f total strangers that they may have put themselves in a vul- nerable position (often times witb someone they trusted) and then were violated by this individual .. Women don't report ra.pe because society still thinks that women \ask for it\; that women who go to a man's apartment for c()ffee have al- ready consented to sex. Womell at Union don't repilrt r~p~becftuse,it~S4l SIJl~lls.¢hool~~nd.no one will believe them anyway beeause_rapedoesn't•Jl~tppen at Union. · Safe. Space knows. tnal;,raJ)e naot:>tlnS~ia1~ltt-lS:·.S~ma~H S~J[l(}j[}J why we at'eJ{~· . ..,·\ , ... :L ... \\'\!~~ . . ' - .~ . •; . ';.' ·.- . . Come Join Concordy's Staff Concordiensis is looking for students o help with the paper. Tons of peopl are wanted, from writers to editors, to advertising managers. Everyone is welcome and no experience whatsoever is needed. Thursday, 6:00PM, Room 303, College Center. Be there. 0 j of fi·n aU fo< Je1 frc fac se1 ed NE sw Nf w Sh va sta sp; tOJ ph illl m an Vi W< dr to1 tO I m1 in; m; 0\ cc be Ja in vi hi SL re th fu li' th th d< er in C< nl er T o.l In e' If h h Cl h fi 51

0 P /ED <trum::n-rhilln5is ·April. 22, 1 ~99 • Pag~ 9 America th·e Beautiful -- Except One by Lis Kidder Opinion Editor If one stares hard at the center of the Ride.l3oard (located on the first floor of the Campus Center), a:Uowing their eyes to become un- focused, they will notice that New Jersey is almost entirely absent from the collection of states. In fact,. one of the only .cities repre- sented is Newark. 1 wholeheart- edly agree with this decision. New Jersey, being ranked with such states as South Dakota and Nebraska in \US News and Wor;ld Reports - States That Should Be Sold to Canada,\ is a vast wasteland. It is the only state in America visible from space, because of its glowing toxic waste. Citizens of New Jersey are plagued with radiation-induced illnesses. These illnesses come in a variety of forms, for ex- ample, \Terminal Keylossitis.\ Victims of this disease usually work for la11ndry services or soft drink companies and their symp- toms include: decreased respira- tory capacity, full body rashes and muscle spasms which lead to the inability to hold 011 to important master keys. ' Speaking of losing master keys, the administration should be con- gratulated for their decision to la- bel the resident's new keys in or- der to make it easy to differentiate between them. One key is labeled, \D;• for \front door,\ while the other is labeled, \J for \room.\ Brilliant. Another radiation-induced dis- ease is \Price Equalitex.ia,\ which i§ a disability that affects a person's myelin sheath. This sheath surrounds and protects the nerve cells. The myelin sheath in people suffering from this disease deteriorates to the point that they are no longer able to contain the electrical signals sent from the ' brain. These signals therefore fire at random, and are especially a problem when the person works with numbers. People with this disease often work in bookstores or dining facilities and are respon- sible for the irrational pricing of items. This can bee seen in many places on campus, most notably in the differing values of a meal swipe in West and the Rathskel- ler: arnealswipe is worth $7.20 at West and only $J. 15 atthe Raths- l<e.ller. Jt has been rumored that New Jersey residents are responsible for the fihn atrocity, \Citizen Kane,\ v;bicll was used to torture students in an English course a few nights ago. One studentis·quoted as say- ing \Never before have I wished so much that a lightening bolt \'ollld crash through the ceiling and electrocute me, than in the fifty-seventh hour ofthat awful IU()V:ie.\ Perhaps there is a solution to these problems, which will allow 11s todiminate these diseases and IJorin.g films from the human . race .. The designers of the Ride :Board have the right idea; New Jersey should be eliminated from the United States. After all, very fe\VI people would miss it. No New Jersey means the elimination of air-p()llution, three-eyed fish and tile \Nets. Perhaps we should take a cue from the San Andreas Fault; a gia11t earthquake might separate New Jersey from the US, upon wiJicll it could be floated across the Atlantic Ocean to Europe. What- ever tlle solution may be, we will al1 be better off with only forty- ni11e states. 1-800-CABLE-ME by Steven Schuler Staff Writer Sweat pours off Dick Vitals over-heated brow as the ESPN color man yells, \lle's a PTP-er baby!\ With one click Michael Jackson's astrology sign appears in a little bubble in his Billy Jean video on VHI 's Pop Up show. We all remember this from and would not disturb students at all. Once installed, students could decide with their roommates and parents if they wanted the service instead of having the school de- cide. Like at other schools, pro- gramming packages would vary, but be .about $20 per month. Di- vide this among four roommates and you get about $5 a trimester p~rpersoti, or $15 per year. If you did not sign up for service you We all get our work done. We l<t10VI how to set aside time and go to the library. When we get home from studying at one in the morn- ing, how is watching late 11ight Sportscenter going to hurt us. Fur- th.ermore, watching Dinner-and-a- Mov.ie on TNT is something that students can do for entertainment on a Friday night that doesn't in- voi\Ve drinking. Cable is also a great way to stay in touch with the world. Let's high school cable channel face it, we live in a bubble. ·su-rfing. We also no doubt Most kids don't read the pa- remember that when we did per, cable TV now has about this it was iri our free time,· for six 24-hour news channels. fun. Yet now none of us who We could have watched the live in campus housing can do impeachment trial, or the up- this. The simple answer why: dates on the war in the the powers that be at Union Balkans. We would beabet- don'ttrustus. We all did well ter informed student body enough ·in high scnool to. get · ·with this service. in to one of the most selective Most Greek houses have it, colleges in the country, yet theme houses have it, and the now we are not respansible new apartments on Seward enough. ~o have a li~le cable .· · . . wil! have it, why not instali tv. , .. Stli~ent~ wint cable because . ~du,1d sttH _.get aJltl.le ,broadcast' i; c~~le- iii residen.ce hails? . · · .· qftite imp;i>.J'eci r~ception and the~:.' cbatmels that·already'corfie·to this ~: ~ /\s· an~endnote I would like to ipcreased programming. We canT . area except witli crystar~Iear re:· . clarify something from last weeks ~V~~ ~et, ~o~e· bma~rast. S~2}VS •. cep1io~. . e,~ .• • . . • ; .• ~ • . ~ : 1 ~()}.!!mn, _I~~ a huge supp~rter ~f • 1\kt;;J)a;wson's<;;:J:.e~km ou.rroorn~ . I(~tudtlnts-w@t~ J)rocra~m~re · .,.~I:.Jri\Jed{ Th1s student rul) orgfl.nJ- Q:ecaJ.Ise the reception is so weak. we yriU find a way. We all haye U~t\Ol1 is recognized by the state · Ins,teacf .w~er must crowd 1n to radios, ph!;>nttst e-mail, play §ta• ·. ()-f~ew York and fef!tures several· cra:m.pedioungeswere.the kidwl1o' . 'tions, friends.' Tf\ere·' at~ sb many,. ,ce~ifled lifesavers. I believe \that . has been w~tchinggolf.highUghts potential distracti9ns; if SQ_pleone [ Jarg~rpr.ofessional security staff for .an houi has preference. ' ' does not want' to dd work, they \N():Ul,fmake that campus safer~ but .; Installation could be done in the won't. Having Cable TV is not there is definitely room for student summer, or even over w,ffiter break · · iriake tln.s pl7<lb1errtwo~se. Do you want to see your friends in your y,earbook? The 1999 GARNET YEAR- BOOK is in need of candid pho- tographs. Anyone and everyone can submit pictures. Please write rour name and box number on 1Jhe back (or home address if graduating) if you would like them returned. Send photos to campus box #0218 or to the Student Activi- tie~ Office. The more pictures you submit, the better your yearbook will be, so please help out! The Student Newspt~per of Union College Since 18 77 Scllenectady 's Oldest Newspaper IJrooke Barylicl~- David Brooks EDITOR~- iN-CHIEF Jaime Chandler EXECUT!i\£ EDJTUR Elisabetll J(idder OPfNIOlVS EDITOR Jessica Zuelllke NEWSED170R Brian Terlinsky SPORTS EDiTOR Scott Scqlli:oil · FACULTY ADVISOR Kiml>erly Roh~ack A & EEDITOR ·cory Silke11 - PffOTOEDlTOR Erika Mandni EDITORiAL CARTOOX/ST Victoria Hargreaves SCIENCE & TFX\ff ED!T()R Neil Routman WORLD NEWS EDITOR Jon Kelson MichaelS. McGuire COPY EDITORS Danielle Devine Amanda Jacks()il AD VERT!SEMENT . COORDINATOR.S Steve Mortefolio PROMOTIONAL MANAGER PHOTOGRAPHERS: Chip Crary, Shanno11 C()onaty, Jennifer MacD~weU, Jeremy Messlu, Sloan Miller, Dave Meguerdichian, Leah S-Ral<er, Rebecca Walsb. ' STAFF: Matt Aronowitz, Jeffrey Ausfeld, Steve- Ayers, Jessica · Breart:on, (;io.a Camparu:Ual.Jolm Carbone, Lisa Carbone, Heather Cleme-nts, Erin Connoly~ Jim DeWann, Mary F~lton, Stephen Flaherly,Peter Flynn, Heath.Ptadkoff, MattGendr()n, Lori Greene, Sarah llnsh, Courtney 11Layden, Mille lger, Jo11 Kelson, Daniel · Kelluman~vich, Jordan LiJlpman, Hugh Meyer, Sloan Miller, Sliaun Montana, Stephen Nemetla; Brian Roache, Steve Schuler, M:ark Shemel, E11gene Shulb, Adam-Paul Smo\(lk, R()ry Stern, Jon Tapper, Charles Tuthili,J()IIJl Zandman.

OP/ED • ntons America the Beautiful -- Except One by Lis Kidder Opinion Editor If one staves hard at the center of the Ride Board (located on the first floor of the Campus Center), allowing their eyes to become un- focused, they wiU notice that New Jersey is almost entirely absent from the collection of states. In fact, oae of the only cities repre- sented is Newark. I wholeheart- edly agree with this decision. New Jersey, being ranked with such states as S<Juth Dakota and Nebraska in \'US News and World Reports - States That Should Be Sold to Canada,\ is a vast wasteland. It is the only state in America visihle from space, because of its glowing toxic waste. Citizens of New J'ersey are plagued with radiation-induced illnesses. These illnesses come in a variety of forms, for ex- ample, \Terminal Keylossitis.\ Victims of this disease usually work for laundry services or soft drink companies and their symp- toms include: decreased respira- tory capacity, full body rashes and muscle spasms which lead to the inability to hold on to important master keys. Speaking of losing master keys, the administration should be con- gratulated for their decision to la- bel the resident's new keys in or- der to make it easy to differentiate between them. One key is labeled, \D for \front door,\ while the o~her is labeled, \J for \room.\ Brilliant. Another radiation-induced dis- ease is \Price Equalitex.ia,\ which is a disability that affects a person's myelin sheath. This sheath surrounds and pFOtects the nerve cells. The myelin sheath in people suffering from this disease deteriorates to the point that they are no longer able to contain the electrical signals sent from the brain. These signals therefore fire at random, and are especially a problem when the person works with numbers. People with this disease often work in bookstores or dining facilities and are respon- sible for the irrational pricing of items. This can bee seen in many places on campus, most notably in ~he diff~ring values of a meal swipe in West and the Rathskel- ler: a meal swipe is worth $7.20 at West and only $3.15 at the Raths- keller. It has i>een rumored that New Jersey Fesi<lents are responsible for the film atrocity, \Citizen Kane,\ which was used to torture students in an English course a few nights ago. Onestudent is quoted as say- ing, \Never before have I wished so mu<;h that a lightening bolt woulcl crash through the ceiling and electrocute me, than in the fifty-seventh howr of that awful movie_\ Perlups there is a solution to these problems, which will allow us to el irninate these diseases and boring films from the human race. The designers of the Ride Board have the riglilt idea; New Jersey should be eliminated from the Uaited States. After all, very few people would miss it. No New Jersey means the elimination of air-pollution, three-eyed fish and the Nets. Perhaps we should take a cue fro1n the San Andreas Fault; a giant earthquake might separate New Jersey from the US, upon which it could be floated across the Atlantic Ocean to Europe. What- ever the solution may be, we will all be better off with only forty- nine states. 1-800-CABLE-ME by Steven Schuler SiaffWriter Sweat pours off Dick Vitals over-heated brow as the ESPN color man ye lis, \he's a PTP-er baby!\ With one click Michael Jackson's astrology sign appears in a little bubble in his Billy Jean video on Vl-11 's Pop Up show. We all remember this from high school cable channel surfing. We also no doubt remember that when we did this it was in our free time, for fun. Yet now none of us who live in campus housing can do this. The simple answer why: the powers that be at Union don't trust us. We all did well enough iH high school to get in to one of the most selective colleges in the country, yet now we are not responsible enough to have a little cable TV. Students want cable because of the improved reception and the increased programming. We can't even get some broadcast shows like Dawson's Creek in our rooms because the reception is so weak. Instead we must crowd into cramped lounges were the kid who has been watching golf highlights for an hour has preference. Installation could be done in the summer, or even over winter break and would not disturb students at all. Once installed, students could decide with their roommates and parents if they wanted the service instead of having the school de- cide. Like at other schools, pro- gramming packages would vary, but be about $20 per month. Di- vide this among four roommates and you get about $5 a trimester per person, or $15 per year. If you did not sign up for service you could sti l'l get all the broadcast channels that already come to this area except with crystal 9lear re- ception. If students want to procrastinate we will find a way. We all have radios, phones, e-mail, play sta- tions, friends. There are so many potential distractions; if someone does not want to do work, they won't. Having Cable TV is not to make this We all ,get our work done. We know how to set aside time and go to the library. When we get home from studying at one in the morn- ing, hov; is watching late night Sportscenter going to hurt us. Fur- thermore, watching Dinner-and-a- Movie on TNT is something that students can do for entertainment on a Friday night that doesn't in- volve drinking. Cable is also a great way to stay in touch with the world. Let's face it, we live in a bubble. Most kids don't read the pa- per, cable TV now has about six. 24-hour news channels. We c::ould have watched the im}leachment triaL or the up- dates on the war in the Balk.ans. We would be a bet- ter in formed student body with this service. N ost Greek houses have it, theme houses have it, and the ne'W apartments on Seward wi 11 have it, why not install cable in residence balls? As an endnote I would like to clarify s()mething from last weeks • column, I am a huge supporter of . u..:Med ... This student run organi- :.zatton is recognized by the state ofNew York and features several certified lifesavers. I believe that a larger j)rofessional security staff wQuld rnak.e that campus safer, but there is definitely room for student involvement. <!IImrorhlensi~ ·April 22, 1999 · Page 9 Do you want to see your friends in your yearbook? The 1999 GARNET YEAR- . BOOK is in need of candid pho- tographs. Anyone and everyone can submit pictures. Please write your name and box number on the back (or home address if graduating) if you would like them returned. Send photos to campus box #0218 or to the Student Activi- ties Office. The more pictures you submit, the better your yearbook will be, so please help out! TJ1.e Studn11 Newspaper of l/Jtion College Since 1877 ScJumectady's Oldest Newspaper Brooke Barylick- Da,·id Brooks EDITORS-IN-C 'JIJEF Jai1ne Chandler EXfCUTH'£ ED/TOR Elisabeth Kidder 01'/l\'J(),VS EDITOR Jessica Zuehlke NEVJ'.S'EOITOR Bri:.n Terlinsky SPOJ?TS EDITOR Sc()Et SctJllion F!l.CULrY ADVISOR Ki nt.erly Rohback Ad £EDITOR Cory Silken PF-1070 EDITOR Erika Mancini EDJTORI..tl. c_ \:1 RTf)( J\1\T Victoria Hargreaves SC!E.VCE & TFC/1 Entrt JR N dl Rout man fVURLD 1\'EWS EDITOR Jon Kelson Michael S. M..:Guire COPY EDITORS J)anielle Devine A.manda Jacks<Jn ADI'ERTISEMENT C'OORDINA TORS Steve Mortefolio PROMOTIONAL MANAGER Prl070CRAPHERS: Chip Crary, Shannon Conaty, Jennifer M a.::Dowell, Jeremy Messler, Sloan Miller, Dne Meguerdichian, Le:t h S-Baker, Rebecca Walsh. S114FF: Matt Aronowitz, Jeffrey Ausfeld, St~\·e Ayers, Jessica B1;ea rtton, Gina Campanella~ John Carbone, Lisa Carbone, Heather Clements, Erin Connoly, Jim DeW ann, Mary Felton, Stephen Flaherty, Peter Flynn, Heath Fradlmff, Matt Gendron, Lori Greene, S~ra b Harsh, Cotutney Hayden, Mil<e lger, Jon Kelson, Daniel Kclltnunovich~Jordan Lippman, Hugh Meyer, Sloan Miller, Shaun l\1!Jn tam a, Stephen Nemeth~ Brian Roache, Steve Schuler, Mark Sltlillillel~ Eugene Sllultz, Adam-Paul Smolak, Rory Stern, Jon TaJlper, Charles Tuthill, John Zandman.

: · -. WotlH·News Campaign in Balkans Yields more Conflict with Russia Russia has tradi'litJnally supported its fellow Orthodox Christians; Conflict of Interest between Serbia and NATO byCharles Tuthill· Staff Writer Amid the violence and on goi11g aill.' strikes in Kosovo, the question cofan expanded confUct is on .tbe rn inds of almost everyone foll<Jw- in g the events. Many specu l!lte e~bout future Albanian involve- Dent, and many believe that 'V·i o- ieJlce in Montenegro may be apos'- sibility. The possibility for a larger arid more dangerous conflict W<Jrriies many experts. Historically, the .!Balkans has been a powder keg for many of the world's major wars. World War I, for example, was !Caused over a conflict in tlhe J3:alkans. Many experts fear the possi\il- iry of an expanded European w:ar ~ .especially with the involvement of Russia. Russia has been firmly <Opposed to the air strikes in Kosovo and in Serbia, claiming that illey must first be stopped before :a .peaceful solution is achie'Ved. \Tile United States, on the otller lland, believes that stopping 'IN A TO air strikes so that the two sii(fes can sit down and disc11ss Jleace would be counterprodtlc- tiwe. Top military officials belie-ve '¢lla.t stopping the bombardment would only give Milosevic ti.me to il'ebuild his advanced air defe11se system. Military officials point to j)eace talks in Vietnam as an e:x- 2rnple, where American planes IJombing Hanoi and other N~rtll 'I ietnamese cities had to destr()y tile air defense systems numero-us times after cease fires. TI1.e United States and its NA H> allies, much to the disapproval of ]: ussia, have decided tlliat Milosevic will have to pull his ttr()ops out of Kosovo completely mefore a peace settlement can be' il'eached. Russia and the United States each see the need to emd the col!flict in Kosovo. Both be• lieve tlmt Serbia should puU its troops()utofthe region. Thetwo sides disagree only on the way a peace settlement should be ar- ranged. Rus!iian politicians, however, have to deal with strong anti-NATO sentiments, which have been mani- fested .in demonstrations across the cmmtrysince the bombing be- they will face a second Vietnam.\ Luzhokov went on to further show his opposition to ground troops by saying that he does \not want to forecast what is going to happen\ if ground troops were sent in but that he \cannot rule out [the pos- sibility of] a third world war.\ \' A voiding a third world war is a crucial issue to the countries of NATO, most of whom do not want as using electronic jamming, de- spite the fact that Russia has only one intelligence g~thering ship in the area. U.S. officials suspect Russia of sharing infonnation with the Serbs, although they have no convincing evidence. Most officials would admit that the Russians and the Serbs share a close bond. Most Serbians and Russians are Ortho- Yuri Luzhkov, a popular Russian politician and mayor of Moscow, adamantly opposed the idea· of NATO ground troops. Luzhkov has been q·uoted as saying, \In the event that NATO and·· !America start a ground operation in Yugoslavia, they will face a second Vietnam. \ gan. Many believe that Yeltstin is under pressure from Communist and Nationalist hard liners who be- lieve tlla1 Russia should take a more active role in the conflict. Yelstin, however, believes that Russia should not be drawn into the conflict in Kosovo. However, a threat of retargeting Russian nuclear missiles at their cold war targets reveals the increased hos- tilities between NATO and Russia. Many Russian politicians are strongly opposed to NATO in- volvement in Kosovo, especially in the form of ground troops. Yuri Luzhkov, a popular Russian politi- cian and mayor of Moscow, ada- mantly opposed the idea ofN A TO ground troops. Luzhkov has been quote(~ as saying, \In the event that NATO and America start a ground operation in Yugoslavia, to see any escalation in the con\' flict in Kosovo .. In an effort to pre .. vent futther widening of the war, President Clinton personally called Yeltsin on Monday. No new ·progress was made in 'the 45 minute conversation, .although White · House spokesman Josej>h Lockhart reported, \President Yeltsin ... mention[ ed] his decisi()n earlier in t!le day not to add addi- tional Russian ships to the region .. \ According to Lockhart, Yeltsin also made it clear that he \will not allow Russia to be drawn into the con- flict.\ Although top Russian leaders have pledged that they have no intention of getting involved in Kosovo, many U.S. officials believe that Russia is in some way aiding the Yugoslav army. Steps are be- ing taken to increase security, such dox Christians. Many in Russia can identify with the Serbs' ten- dency to hold on to Kosovo, which contain's many ancient Orthodox Christian cathedrals. Most Rus~ sians and Serbians are also of Slavic decent. Some speculate that this bond has had the affect of throwing more support to the Serbian cause. Serbian media has also played a part in influencing the Soviet people. The New York Times re- ports, \Television images'ofthe de- struction of NATO bombs~ sup- plied by the Serbians- has further inflamed the feelings of Slavic brotherhood\ felt by many Rus- sians. The result has been wide- spread public support for the Serbian cause. Many Russian politicians share pro-Serbian sentiments, however many believe that Milosevic is somewhat of a burden. Russian poHticians have had trouble per- suading Milosevic of the need to remove his troops from Kosovo, althQugh &ussiahas close ties with Yugoslav,ia. Russian politicians have also stressed that they be- lieve that retuming the ethnicAl- banian refugees to their homes is a crudal part of security in the Balkans. Making the Balkans secure for peace is a major goal ofboth NATO and Russia. In their talk on Mon- day, Clinte>n and Y eltsin discussed a possible peaee-keeping force in Kosovo involving both Russian and NATO troops. Maint<1ining good relations with the U.S\ and its NATO allies has its benefits for Russia, who is seeking to secure a loan from the International Mon~ etary Fund. Delegates from Rus- siaare expected to arrive in Wash- ington next week to discuss the terms ofamone1:arypackage which many hope will revive the ailing Russian economy. Many NATO c()untries have made it cleat that they want to see Russia become part of the peace process. France and Germany in particular would like Russia to be- come involved because they be- lieve that if R.ussiawere involved in the agreement, a UN Security Council mandate for a possible peace keeping force in the Balkans would be much more likely. Each of the. sides h,ave differ- ent, and even conflicting, views on how peace sb.pul<! be .achieved in the Balkans, but both Russia and .NATO .would like to see the cur- rent crisis come to a fast conclu- -sion. Milosevic, however, is pour- ing mote troops and supplies into Kosovo each day making peace and stability inthe Balkans hard to achieve fo.r both Russia and NATO. Bosnian Croat Goes Before International Tribunal for Crimes Against Humanity Trial beg~ns for man accused of killing Muslims from Bosnia; Ties to President Tudjman might yield convictions By Heather Campbell Staff Writer In recent months, the United :States has focused on the atro- cci ous crimes committed by tile Serbs on the Kosovar Albanians, cmd has all but ignored the war c:;rimes committed by Croatia. Soon, that will change. On Monday, a Bosnian Croat JlDlitician, Darion Kordic, wentc:m G:rial before the international war crimes tribunal. Prosecutors in The J!;ague considered him to be o11e 10fthe most wanted war crimes sus- iJects in the Bosnian war. In 1995, he was charged with or- dering the expulsion and killing of l'M!uslim families from the central E()snia region in 1993. They say tlh at the goal of these actions was. to annex part of Bosnia to Cwatia. 1\()rdic is pleading not guilty to tile cllarges. Kordic was the leader of the ter because of war crimes; Kordic Yugoslavian President Slobodan Bosniftn chapter of the political was involved in the very inner Milosevic. It was in these secret party ofCroatia's president, Franjo circles of government, investiga- meetings that the two might have Tudjman. tors say that he might potentially discussed splitting 'up Bosnia. He was a key figure in both have evidence about the Croatian The formal charges against Bosnia and Kordic state Croatia, as,------------------------------------. that Kordic was Croatia insti- Prosecutors in the Hague considered responsible for gated the vio- planning at- lence in Bosnia. him (Dar ion Kordic) to be one of the tacks on. This trial be- Bosnian Mus- gins just as an- most wanted war crimes suspects in lims from 1991 other Croatian the Bosnian war. to 1994. trial is proceed- It says that ing. General he signed or- Tihomir Blaskic ders and \exer- was charged in several of the same incidents as Kordic, but he gave himselfupin 1996. Kordi<: also surrendered in .late 1997 aJter the United States and Europe placed high pressure upon President Tudjman. Tactics in- cluded blocking loans to Croatia. Kordic was not only sought af- leaders who were behind the idea of\ethnic cleansing.\ Even President Tudjman is un· der investigation for incidents of ethnic cleansing that occurred afw ter the dissolution of Yugoslavia. Infonnation Kordic might be able to provide could co.nfirm that Tudjman held secret' meetings with cised powerl command and author- ity in, over and through the Croatian Defense Co unci I.\ Kordic was the vice president of the Defense Councill and acted as the chief executive or the Croatian Republ.ic of Herceg-Bosnia, al- though it was never recognized by the international community. As \part of the highest circle of political and military leaders,\ Kordic made negotiated cease-fire agreements, issued mil'itary orders, dressed in military attire and de- cided if relief aid or UN vehicles could pass through checkpoints, according to the indictment. The indictment also cited over 12 towns where Muslims were at- tacked. Many were imprisoned in detention camps, where they were beaten, sexually assaulted and wounded, and left to struggle to survive in squalid conditions. In 1993, more than 100 Muslim men, women, and children were bumed to death in their homes in the town of Ahmici. The crimes against the Muslims were so far reaching that, by 1994, the Bosnian Muslim population was greatly reduced in that area. This is the eighth trial so far for .the . former Yugoslavia.

-- ·WOrld News Kathy Kelly to Speak at Union's Olin Auditorium Fo.under of Voices in the Wilderness, Kathy Kelly strivesfor a Repeal of Economic Sanctions against the People of Iraq by Neil'Rontman WorldNews Editor While the headlines in the Balkans contin\le to capture the public's interest, the military cam- paign in the Middle East contin- ues quietly. The United States has steadily attackedlraq since Decem- ber of 1,998; five months later, rela- tively little progress has been made. Saddam Hussein has remained in power; his control over the people ofiraq is steadfast. To ac• company our military strategy against Hussein, the State Depart- ment has placed economic sanc- tions against Iraq since its first aggression towards Kuwait in 1991. Many of these sanctions are no longer affective against the Iraqi leader; they only continue to bring .suffering directly to the civilian people oflraq. Saddam Hussein is clearly not tremendously affected by these sanctions. He C()ntinues to fire upan US and UN planes with his antiaircraft utilities; he refuses to recognize the UN-'imposed \No Fly Zone.\ Saddam continues to reside in his palaces, free to purchase nearly any product on the world · market (he maintains. a fine auto- mobile collection}. Only the pub- lic, the innocentlraqi citizens, has truly been devastated by these Western hostilities. The Voices in the Wilderness .organization. is dedicated to end'- ing the sanctions against Iraq. ln its own words, \Members of this campaign are committed to nonvio- lent resistance to injustice a11d oppose all weapons of mass de- struction. In the aame ofdecency struggle.'' These sanctions prebibit any form of trade with the rogue na- tion. However, a resolution was passed in the United Nations to allow Iraq to trade its oil for much needed food and medical supplies. Resolution 986, unfortunately, does not appear to be affective. Earlier to UN sources, only five to ten percent ofiraq' s immediate require- ments in critical sectors can be met within the framework of the ''Oil for Food\ agreement.\ Voices of the Wilderness and its founder Kathy Kelly are commit- ted to bringing justice and aid for the citizens oflraq. Such statistics \From previous trips, we knew exactly where to find · overwhelming evidence of a weapon of mass destruction. llnspectors have only to enter the wards of any hospital in Iraq to see th.at the sanctions themselves are a lethal weapon, destroying the lives of Iraq's most vulnerable people ... Five thousand children, under age five, perish each month. '' - Kathy Kelly, March 9, 1998 and international law,. we demalld an immediate end to economic sanctions ... In the tradition of Mohandas Gandhi and Martin Luther King, Jr., we advocate non- violence as a means for social change. \We oppose the development, storage and use - in any col'~try • of any weapom of mass destruc- tion, be they11uclew, chemical, bio· logical or economic. We advocate active development of effective nonviolent methods of ·social this year, US planes, claiming a breach in the previous contract of 986, bombed the pipeline that trans- ported the oil to. a port. With the pipeline destroyed, exporting oil has become increasingly difficult for Iraq. According to Voices, '\UN reso- lution 986 does not provide for criti- cal spare parts to repair Ira.q' s wa- ter, sanitation and medical infra- structure. The importation of such basic items as chlorine, fertilizer and pencils is prohibited. Accordin~ as 567,000 children have died from these economic sanctions, or4,500 children under the age of five die each month from hunger and dis- ease,. compel the organization to bring relief. Voices sends humani- tarian workers- in direct violation of UN policy- to Iraq to deliver medical supplies, food, and books. These workers risk a one million- dollar fine plus up to twelve years .in prison. Kelly has organized fifteen ille- gal campaigns, hermostrecentbe- ing in February of 1998. Upon her arrival, she was placed int<l the custody of US customs agents, who seized her passport. Escap- ing imprisonment for her violation, Kelly was later sentenced to one year in prison for planting com on a nuclear missil.e silo field. Some of Kelly's other campaigns include maintaining a peace en- campment on the Iraqi-Saudi bor- der (the Gulf Peace Team) during the Gulf War. She continued to assist in the region for six mo.nths, coordinating. medical relief con- voys in Jordan. She has helped organize and participated in non- violent actions in Haiti, Bosnia, Is- rael, and the Israeli Occupied Ter- ritories. She has also refused to pay federal income taxes for eigh- teen years. Kelly has received the Pope Paul Vl Teacher of Peace Award and the John P. Altgeld Freedom of Speech A ward from the Newbeny Library Debates Committee. Kathy Kelly will be speaking at Union College in the Olin Audito- rium, room 115, on Monday, April 26at7:30. This event is open to the pub- lic. Additionally, if any student is interested in meeting Ms. Kelly, there will be an open reception in the Strauss Lounge, 3'd floor Cam- pus Center, from 5:30to 7:30. Visit their weu;)ite at www.nonviolence.org/vitw/. Columbian Government s.eeksNegotiantions with Marxist Rebels President Andres Pastrana pushes for an angreement with the Revolutionary Armed Forces Df Columbia (RAFC) By Stephea Nemeth Staf]Writer. Tuesday marked the first day that the Colombian government and Marxist rebels sat down to dis- cuss peace and allay fears that had spread amongst the populace. This talk showed the broad steps they had taken to revive peace talks between the Revolu- tionary Armed Forces of Colombia (F ARC) and the government which had been stalled. since late Janu- ary. This move came amidst grow- ing public pessimism and distrust along with increasing fears that Colombia's long-running civil war that has cost over 35,000 lives will intensifY. \The objective is to progress from talks to negotiations,\ Presi- dent Andres Pastrana said as he announcedthatgovernrnentnego- tiators would talk with rebel nego- tiators to set a site, an agenda, and talking points for their discussions. Pastrana also expressed hopes that a settlement could be reached. In order to further entice the rebels, Pastrana offered to demili- tarize a large part of the country if the rebels begin concrete negotia- tions. Tuesday was the first day that government negotiators and their rebel counterparts formally met since late January, when F ARC unilaterally suspended peace talks just days after they .had begun in order to retaliate the massacre of 160 peasants by ultra-right death squads. January's right-wing offensive was widely viewed as an attempt to disrupt the talks. Over the week- end, the death squads threatened to launch a \war without quarter\ against the Marxist rebels and ci- vilian.sympath:izers in Colombia's southeastern province ofCaqueta. During this time, unidentified gunmen distributed pamphlets and spread blood-red guerrilla slogans on walls of homes and shops in the village ofLa Esmeralda, a vil- lage is that it lies in an area that has been clear of Colombian mili- tary personnel for the past five months in preparation for the peace talks. The threat is meant to watn both F ARC not to assert control over the area and the civilian populace not to coopera.te with the rebels. The warnings echo last month's remarks by Carlos Castano, head of Colombia's most-feared right- wing paramilitary gang, who said he would lead an attack on rebels in the demilitarizt~d zone after May 7, when the g<>vernment troop pull- out is officially due to end. \Our fighters will soon aJTive to fight the guerrillas, and from today things must change around here,\ said a pamphlet bearing the logo ofCastano's United Self-Defense Forces ofColombia (AU C) distrib- uted in'La Esmeralda. \The war without quarter has begun. It's y()u or us!\ it added, warning peasants on pain of death not to collaborate with the rebels or invite them into their houses. F ARC responded to the actions of the death squads by demand- ing as a precondition to substan- tive talks that the military begin a crackdown of those organizations, who, the rebels claim, !lave sup- port from elements of the govern- ment and the anny to conduct a \dirty war\ against suspected left- wing sympathizers. In a precursor, Pastrana fired two anny generals who were sus- pected of aiding such groups. Prosecutors have begun investi- gations into a third. It is unclear ifF ARC will inter- pret Pastrana's actions as his will- ingness to disband the growing number of <Ieath squads that roam the Colombian countryside. Esti- mates of the strength (}f these groups range anywhere from 3,000 to 5,000, compared to F ARC's 15,000 strong combat force. While paramilitary groups threaten to increase their activities, F ARC itself carried out a number of assaults on the capital and on the southwest of the country in recent days, which sources close to the group have suggested could be the beginning of a wider offen- sive despite recent rare successes by the Colombian military that claimed the life of two high rank- ing FARC officers. Not surprisingly, the general public haslow expectations as the talks begin. Major Colombian pa- pers have echoed the distrust of the people. \Pessimism about t:he peace process is becoming more acute ... With these actions the public be- lieves less and less in the guerril- las' desire for peace,\ top cclum- nist Enrique Santos wrote in are- cent edition of the leading El Tiempo newspaper. \The public is calling for fewer concessions to the guerrillas and more iron-fist tac- tics,\ he added. Echoing these views, Colombia's respected El Espectador newspa- per published a Gallup poll show- ing that two-thirds of those polled disapproved of Pastrana's han- dling ofthe peace process. Three quarters of the same group said that they believed neither F ARC nor the National Liberation Army (ELN), Colombia's second-largest guerrilla group, were really inter- ested in making peace. About half said the guerrillas were still bank- ing on using military might to take power by force and set up a social- ist state. Contrary to international opin- ion and condemnation of the death squads, 68 percent ofthosepolled believed that the government should not give in to rebel demands and crack down on right-wing para- military groups. The poll surveyed 1,000 adults and had a margin of error of plus or minus three per- cent. F ARC attracted international condenmation in early march when one of its units kidnapped and killed three U.S activists wh() were helping Colombian Indians defend tribal lands from oil exploration. F ARC has not been the only group that has drawn international criticism. Recently the ELN drew the ire ofthe international commu- nity by high-jacking a commercial passenger airliner and kidnapping all 4 1 passengers and crew. Political analysts now say that the rebels can rescue some of its credibility by restarting peace talks as soon as possible. However, if Pastrana follows through on his offer to extend the demilitarization period, the move is likely to spark opposition from Colombian political and military officials as well as Washington; who have deemed FARC a major threat to regional stability and one that has the potential to take the cDuntry within five years if not kept in check. The consequences of Pastrana's actions would be that it allows the rebels to consoli(!ate cDntrol over what is already effec- tively a guerrilla-ruled enclave spanning some 16,000 square miles (42,000 square kilometers). While the poorly armed Colom- bian army attempts to disrupt and destroy well-trained and highly motivated paramilitary groups, it is apparent that the Bogota gov- ernment is nearing collapse. Pastrana's attempts at extend- ing the olive branch to the varied and fragmented military organiza- tions must be tak~n seriously by all sides to prevent the civil war that has engulfed Colombia f()r the last ten years from intensifying or spreading to neighboring C()Un- tries, as well as to maintain the vi- ability of the country.

.. Page 12: Cabaret's Political StateJDent By Kimberly Rohback A&E Editor When 1 auditioned for Cabaret, 1 was under the impression that it was an older version of Cl10rus Line. I had never seen 1he Sh()W nor was I familiar with any of its music. Tbe only impression I got was from the cover of the Bob Fossey movie. I was wrong. Caba- ret is a far reaching statement about gender, religious, even racial equality. The political statement is reason enough to see the show. For those of you who are unfa .. miliarwith the theme oftheshovv, it takes place in the late 1930s in Berlin. The Nazi Party is on the rise, and the country is clinging to the poverty and desperation ()f peace after the close of the first World War. Most of the action takes place in a night club, the Kit Kat Klub, where a bunch of run- away girls perform to raunchy num- bers led by their androgynous leader, the Master of Ceremonies. They confront issues of h()mo- sexuality and cross-dressing head on. Everything is \beautiful\ to the performers of the Cabaret. Outside the world is being torn apart by antisemitism, but inside religion, mce, sex, and ·sexual pref- erence are all a matter of taste. The leadperformeratthe Kit Kat Klub isFrauJein Sally Bowels. She dances and sings with her tro{)p of girls. She hides in the club from love, commitment, and fear. She meets an American named Cliff and falls in love. When she is forced to choose between him and the club, she refuses to leave. Cliff, one of the few who has read Mein Kampf, understands the evils and injustice that are brewing in Ger- many and desperately tries to con- vince Sally to :leave. The romance between these two young people is balanced by the love story grows b tween the·. older ters. their runs a vvu ..... -, ing house, cides to cal off her wed prominen young ]eade · in the Na Party, advi her not to marry h sweetheart. The show ism, frighten in renditions message for our generation, espe- cially in an age where ethnic cleansing remains a current event. The events in Kosovo andthehate crimes that run rampant through our newspapers make Cabaret DLane Sadak chose this play with. tlhe intention of sending a mes- s.age. She was assigned the task of directing a musical The world Df musical theater has been tagged wLth the unfair image of being , s,Jmple eye- andy like Grease and Oklahoma. is so much more. The script for the musi- cal is based on a group of short stories written about re-World War Il Ger- many. The stories de- scribe the same kind of tension and cloudiness .that most his'- 'ans asso- ciate with Ber- lin in the late 1930s. entire cast, save Cliff, and Natasha Richardson as Sally Bowels- PC- New 'K.orlc Times Perhaps the most frighten- ing aspect of the show is its ability to dem- onstrate how easily minds the elder characters, get uncon- sciously swept up into the German/ Nazi hysteria. The effects of all of this deliberate ignorance in a world that is crumbling is chilling. Cabaret holds a great potent more relevant than ever. This is not only a show about singing and dancing, despite tre- mendous talent demonstrated in both disciplines. It is a show that makes a statement. Guest Director are changed and how quickly and silently atrocities like the Holo- c.aust oean happen. People who C>OJnstantly chose to hide in their o•wn small worlds help contribute to these crimes against humanity. Anyone who says that politics does not concern them is guilty. Cabaret witl be opening on Wednesday ofeighth week. It is a gigant4c proJect with a budget that exceedes almet any other theatrical production that has been done in the past three years. The costumes are brilliant, and the set is another masterpiece.· The choreography is fabulous and the singing is not only well done, but some of it is in German. The missing link for the show is the atmosphere ofpo litical awareness. If you belong to a political organization on campus or you know of one that might be interested in sitting at a table promoting your cause in the lobby during the pre-show, please contact me at the Concordy office atx6155. The Department has been requested by the student body for years to put on a musical. They have finally elected to perfonn one, and not just any musical. This piece addresses issues that most ofus are not.confronted With here at Union. Discrimination is a problem in this muntry and alI over the world. The play preaches that inaction is as detrimental as negative action. Support theater as a va:Iuable art form. The Yulman is incredibly busy this term with two student productions of Jack and Jill and Laundry and Bou1·bon. The Union Improv troop is also working diligently to explore and perform imrpovisation theater. Peiformace is more than entertainment, and often it exceeds art. The show will debut later this spring. I Can't Believe I'm. Not Butter By Deric Harringto11 StaffWriter Where to begin? How about with the ending this time? OK, works for me. So, my legions of fans, don't forget to check back here next week, so you can hit the lever again, and I, Deric \l once drove a staple through my thumb\ Harrington can give you the pro- verbial pelletldrug of words, incog- nito as an A&E column. So, tiUnext time, remember, if you have jock itch, it's OK to give it a jock scratch ... I might as well go to the beginning now... although 1 think it's a hit late for that. .. oh weLl. I'll give you an intro anyway. Wel- come back to the barbed wire fence of your grazing field oflife, my col- umn. Please enjoy your stay, but do not try 1o escape at any time, because the armed guards are paid to shoo1 to kill. l saw the local band The Clay People this past weekend at Valentine's in Albany. If you haven't heard of The Clay People, you are really missing out on a great band that really has tile po- tential to be one of the next big things. Cttl1 up \VRUC some lime and ask whoever is there to play the song \Awake\ by The Clay People. It'll be worth your time, and whoever is the DJ's time as well (by the way, if you're not \down'' with calling WRUC, just listen on Friday nights, 11-1. I guar- antee you' II hear something by The Clay People during that block. Wait one second ... is this some kind of subliminal message forthe Albino MidgetHourX2 (myradioshow) ... hmmm ... r don't know, I guess you'lljust have to tune in and find out ... you know you want to, ev- eryone else is doing it). Is it time for my weekly plug of Cabaret? No'? Oh well, i guess it's too late now anyway, seeing how I kind of already mentioned it in this paragraph. How about the weekly Deric gives his E-mail address (SiapyMcGee@aol.com) out to everyone spot? No? FINE! I don't care ... what can f talk about then? A and what? E? You want me to talkabouttwo vowels? Whydon;t you get Vanna White out here to do that. As for me, -I think I'm gonna in- stead talk about Arts and entertain- ment. Mo.tmf~banks (with which I have I have no involvement... yeah, right ... ) has brought to the cam- pus, an improv group that to this day is still yet to be named. Any suggestions for names can be E-mailed to me at the address above. But that's not why I men- tioned them. I wanted to say that this is hopefully the beginning of a yearly activity for Mountebanks, and the school, as the group is going to perform several times throughout the term, with dates and times to be announced later. Do people really wish they were an Oscar Mayer wiener? 1 don't think so. I meanl let's face it, first off, you'd closely resemble a part of the male anatomy (that's right, I'm willingto lower the class ofthe A&E section to get more readers) and secondly ... people would kill you by biting off your head, or your feet/legs, depending which end is which. Personally, I'm content being just plain ol' Deric \vanilla in a world of31 flavors., Harrington. Does anyone find it strange that if I were to complain about how people on this campus just like to C()mplain, then I'd become the ex- act thing that I would be complain- ing about? So, just think of that e11tire last sentence as a hypotheti- cal sntuation ... same with the next one. I'm tired of everyone com- plaining about Union ... ifyou hate it so much here, leave .. -. sounds pretty easy to me. Hrnmmm ... overall, in the entire A.&E theater aspect of our school, e•verytbing is in the rehearsal pro- ce!>s, which is why I haven't been saying a million things about how g10od something was, or not men• tilQning any shows that didn't ex.- actay p1ease my play-going pallet. Anyone looking for a study bre.ak, and Wants to have a big time Milri() Party ... should go get an \»64 a11d the game \Mario Party\ ... wh:at, did you think I was going to irniteyou over? Come on, llivein Webster, don't you know it's Jla11nted here (side note: That is a j()k>e, based on someone actually ;asking me that once. Sometimes, IPe()pte amaze me). Well,. I'm just about finished witlh another column (for the full ~Cnlling, seethe beginning ... there• :fore :sending you into a infinite ~Cycle, in which this part will always :send you back up to the beginning. J' 11 have legions of people walking around campus trying to get to the end of this article, but each and every time, they'll have to go back to the.beginningto read the end- ing, and from there, it's just natural progression to read along until the end ... which wiJI never come. So, because of that, you' 11 never even get to this part, in fact, I can say whatever l want to here, and you' 11 never know it. Hmmm ... what to say. Does anyone else's armpits smell like \teen spil'it\ (whatever the heck that is)? Have you ever noticed that when someone has something stuck between their teeth (you know, like watercress sandwich), it's fun to laugh at them? Anyway, if you're lucky enough to break the cycle, then you're a far better person than myself, and I feel like I should just go, before you realize who lam, at which point you'd come and beat the hell out of me, because I wasted your time with another column ... but I swear, as the term goes 'Otl, l' 11 havernuch more A&E things to talk about ... honestly. I had better or I will lose this column. I fyou have any won- derful, funny, or entertaining ideas, let me: know. It wuld be a column. jo ve ca de 81 Y1 ru C< Yt HI L.. St. au as R< ab Dt th Ht pi: Yt bi su tic pi \s sp co vic m: po is ac Inl tht Cl da thi Er po so le! up I I a I s .ll \1 t n Q i n 11 u ( c \1 n

Arts & I!titertainmtnt · · · · · ~ ·· ·· ~ · ·· · · · -· · · · · -- · · · · · .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · atnruar~ietuis _• April 22, 1999 • Page '13 · - · The· Groundlings Club The Miracle Orchestra at Chet' s By Brooke Zeigerman StaffWriter dollars will b~ r()tl.lrned to you on the bus the ~ay o:ftbetrip as spend- ing money in N e\11' York City. Keep in mind thosoe 1~11 <iol'lars are non- refundable iffy()u do not show up on the: da:y of departure. The . money is llsellt()· h(Jld your seat, so make suTe: rou sh.ow up, or else you forfeit the: ll10!ney. We travel • ~y charter btls itl.t() the city; depar- . ture is fiom the: traffi(1 circle next to the Rathskellar, F()r further infor- matkm, C()nta..Ct e:ither Professor · Hyungji Park io.tlJ~English Depart~ ment atX6 721i>on 1be president of the club, R:atchel Sheriff, at 347- · 2023. The Grot.nldlings Club is comprised o1fa gr<>up of students who are q~ai:re enthusiastic · thea~ergoers \Wh<J like the idea of discounted lti.::k:et prices to s~e these fantastic works. Courtesy ojPopa .Wiuelies Protluctinns The Miracle Orchestra regularly draws crowds of3 50 fans,. a.Jld has a mailing list of over II 0() pteople. In Boston, The Miracle Orc:hestra performs regularly at venue-s such as The Honse ofBiues, wh-ere their recent CD release party soM out, with well over I 00 tickets s:old in advance, as well as The Middle East, and Mama Kin. M/Ohas re- cently been honored with l!~>ston Magazine's \Best of Boston-;, Best Upstart Jazz Group of 1998. Also, .the group frequently has airplay and interviews on WER~ 88.9 \Jazz Oasis,\ \Space Jann,\ and \Alternate Takes\ programs, as well as performing live on the air. The group is at home playing dubs set- tings as well as university concert halls and college parties. Wetlands and The Knitting Fac- tory in New York City. The Iron Horse in Northhampton, MA, and The Higher Ground in Burlington, VT,tonarnejustafew. The Miracle Orchestra has shared the stage with many major acts, most IIota- biy the Jam-Rock band PHIS.H, who recently had The Mir.acle open their three-day \Lemonwheel\ festival with a two- hour sidestage set. The Miracle Orchestra also appeared on l>i lis with gmups such as The ])irty Dozen Brass Band, Charlie Hunter~s Pound for Po11nd, Aquarium Resque Unit, Los Lobos and the Funky Meters. Attention all theatre fans! Come join the Groundlings Club as we venture off of the Union Colle.ge campus for the last time th·is aca- demic year, Our destination: The Brooks Atkinson Theater in New York City to see one of the limited- run showings of The iceman Cometh starring Kevin Spacey. You may know Spacey from such: Hollywood fi-lms as L.A. Conjidentiaf and The Usual Suspects. You may also recall the brilliant author ofthep lay, Eugene 0 'Neill, as mentioned in Kimberly Rohback' s article two weeks ago about. his autobiographical Long Days Journey into Night. According to the publisher .of the play's paperback, Random House IncorpQrated, the play takes place in a cheap gin mill in New York City. The time: a salesman's birthday celebration during the summer ofl-912 when the delinea- tion between hopes, dreams and p.ipe dreams disintegrates when \self~knowledge\ destroys self-re- spect, compassion and life. Ac- cordingto The New York Times re- view on April 9,. durfng the perfor- mance Spacey seems like the most powerful man on earth. This play is a real cliffhanger, chock full of action. Ifyou are interested in see-- ing this fantastic play along with the members of the Groundlings Club, here's how: The Date: Thurs- day, May27, 1999. How: Bring a thirty-dollar deposit to Thora in the English Departm,ent as soon as possible. You must come in per- son and show a valid Union Col- lege ID; no proxy or group sign- ups allowed! Ten of those thirty ln the (>'ast we've seen such plays ·as RENT,. rJJe Primary En- glish cgass, aJ'ldElectra, all forless thantwentyclollitrs;! The lEG grant makes this cnpportunity P<?Ssible. We still have yetto gain club sta- tusat Union CO.Ileg.e and would like to see this !J.appe:11 sometime in the near future_ The Miracle Orchestra fusesthe hannonies of Jaz2 and Blues with the lively spirit and tribal energy of \danceable funk\ and ethnic music, creatingagr()ove and a vibe which is entirelytl:!eir own. Guitar, bass, drums, ;percussion, saxo- phones, vocals: the four person Bost<m·based Miracle Orchestra's instrumentation !lllows fora wide range ofimpr:ov:isationa:l styles and expression. Thef?oup'srepertoire includes over tltirty original com- position~, which inc:erporate a:wide range of influences fiom Miles Davis to Babatu11deOiatunji, Clas- sical Indian musk to the Grateful Dead. On stage, the group does notattempttoperform music from within only a ·certain genre, but fuses all of its influences together to form a coHecti'Ve band sound. Beyond Boston, The Mir:ac:le Or- chestra has played successfu.lcon- certs to college crowds, as. \9/ell as such out of town venues as the The Miracle Orchestra's debut CD, Coalescence, is curre11tly available at all Miracle Orchestra concerts as well as at select recc;rd stores suchas Tower and Newbu:ry Comics in Boston, and Merle's and Record in Connecticut. If you loV'e pla~s, wish to take advantage of discounted prices, and would ]ike: to become a mem- ber of the GrotLndlings Club, get in · touch with Rachel Sheriff for more details. The club.rneets once or twice a term to discu.ss: p~ssible plays.lt is hardly a t iiile commitment. Groundlings Clul> aims to bring Union stud.ents to theater outside oftheUniou.::o1nmunity, at prices students can affol'd. Theater is such a bril lia11t art form and we rarely have iirm&eor money to enjoy it... especially ill New York City. We'd love totltear your ideas and suggestions, so C(}me see us! The follewma~P~ben ef tbe faculty wW 1M coulclenl for :reappoilltmeat thil Spridg. Any member of the t~Jnpul tommunity willlin• t_, •flier VfitteJl or oral testimony eoneemilla tilt individual profasen should contact a· JJHIIl!Hr of tile appropriate Reappointment Review Committee: PAlJL GREMILLION, ASSISTANT PROPESSOlt 0.1' ClV'ILENGJNEERJNG: The committee members are: Thomas Jewell, committee cllai:r~Civf.lEngineering: jewellt@IUlion.edu);Phillip Snow (Civil Enginl.'ering: sno\W}l@union.edu);Jobn Garver (Geology:. garverj@union.edu). BYUNGUPARK, ASSISTANT PROPESSOltOF ENl&ldSJI: The committee members are: Bonney MacDonald, committee chair (Enslish: macdoml@union.edu); Jordan Smith (Engiislt: amithj@uaion.eclu); Petet Heinegg (Bnslish: heilleup@Won.odll); Brenda Wineapple (EngliSh: wineappb@union.edu); Harry Marten (Bnslilh: ~o~t.edu);Ruth Stevemon (Bnslisb: stevensr@union.edu). · DESHA NEIDERMEY.ER~ ASSISTANT PR()J'ESSOSt~mADUATE MANAGEMENT INSTITUTE: The committee members are: Dora Arn()l(i, COlllnlittee chair (GMI; arnotdd@uni()n.edu); Alan Bowman ( GMI: bov,-mana@ullloit.edu); losefSchmce (GMI: schmeej@union.edu); Rudy Nydegger (OMI: nycle:gg.IJi()JI.«u). SARAH IIENRY, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF BJS'r()Jt~: The committee members are : kobert Wella, committee cbab: (History: wcllSJ@union.ecl~t); lrWk Wa.llcer (History: walkem@UiliOn.edu); Teresa Meade (HiBtory. mead•!li()Jtedu). DA VJDJ: CERVONE, ASSISTANT PR.OFE&SOR OF' MA'l\JJEMATICS: The committee membet:a are: Kimmo Rosenthal (Mathematics: ~tl1k~!Qo11.edu); Micbael Frame (Mathematics: ftamem@union.edu); Karl Zimnm:mana {!tfatbernatics: zimmennk@union.edu). WILLIAM OAT, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF DO.JI.NICAL ENGINEERING: 11le Commitwe members are: lUchard Wilk, committee cha:k (Mec,.,caJ Engineering: Witkr@union.edu); Ronald Bucinell (Mcchanic&IEnaincrlag: ~inelr@union.edu); 1. Richard ~(Mechanical Enainecring: abanebtr@union..-..); Jruk Wlcka(Mechmical !aglneenna: wicbf@union.cdu). . DIANNE MCMULLEN, ASSISTANT PRODSSOllOI',PEDORMING .ARTS: The committee members are: Hiluy Tann., committee chair (Per:bm:ling Arts: tannh@union.edu ); BIITY Smith (Performina Ana: smithb@ll!lion.odu.); AJit(JJ\. Vl'.r<Ge{Modern Lansuases: Wltdea@union.edu). RICHAD J'O:X, ASSISTANT PROJISSOlt. Oli' POU'IOCAL SCIENCE; The committee mombera w: Terry Weinel', committee .cbair (Polliical Science~ weinert@union.edu); Clifford Brown (Political Science: brownc@unioll.ecllt)~ Junes 1Jmdii!Viood (Political Science; underwoj@utliou.edu). CII.ARLOTT& EYIRMAN; ASSISTANT PJtOnss<lk ()F VISUAL ARTS: The ~ IIIIIDbett ue: Chri•Duncia. cornmittoe cbalr ~~-Arts: ~on.edu); Wlltet Hatlce (Visual Arts: hltkew@unioaedu); J..c)ula Wuttbow (VJJUal Arts: mattblnvl@tlnioruda); Ru1h. Stevc~taon (EftaliaJ.: ~n.«<u); The Miracle Orchestra PC Papa WJJeelie Productions l.E.F. DBAJ)UNB The dtadlim for ~ for the Internal Educadon Foundation in two categories - student· illitiated research prcjeelsul weducatioually innovative pttOjeets\ is May 13, 199.1. Pr~Is for student-Initialed research projects DllllSt have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to SllpeMse 1he project. The proposals Wd be submitted w the Dean's Office (SlOO, Sdence II. Brlgioeedng Buildin&) on fmms available there. Similarly, members of the Collep oommumty • have \educationally inrovative\ proposals should Sllbmit them to the same office on furms available !llere. Forms for Faculty Research Projects are also available in the Dean's Office (SlOO). Guideliles with respect lllhe I.E.F. are availalllel:n 1he Dean's Office. Inquiries about I.E.F ., 1be: gllidelilles, or tbo prqx68l deadlire should be direded 10 Wargaret Dalton, Administrative Assistant to the Dean of Arts.& Scielx:es. Wlm preparing bqeb, plem remember 1bat per diem rates are oormally limited to $5().85 ~day. Tl111Sp0rtation costs slnJld also retlwt the best races a'Vllilable. Students wbo ate planning 10 do irumiews ·must ildicate that arrqeuts bave already been made. If your research iacltxles work \Vidl human albjects, tbeD tbe proposal mm have preliminaty apprcval from the Human 811bjects Rt3earch Committe before it can be fuOOed byr·11Be ~bccuncil on Ulklergraduate ~cb. •********************····~~·~**************~**** FACULTY RESBARCB DBADLINB The Faculty Devel~t Committee is oow soli~t:ing proposals for faculty re&U\ch alli scholarsblp activities. AppJicadOJIS ml ~ are aWlable in Dean Sorum's Office (S-100, S&E). 'l1te dt6!J6re for S!Jbmissiou of propt'6als is May 13, 1999 .. Qpest!QtiS ~ming the Faculty Research Fw1L sbould be directed to J>ean Sorum. When preparlna tudgets, pl.se remember that per diem rates ar-e mrmaUy limited 10 $51).85 per day. rtimpmatioll sboold ala» reflect 1he best rats avaiJable. If your reeeW1 irdlldes work wilh humiD IUb)c!l, 1hc11 the proposals DlllSt have preliminalJ apoval from 1be JlliDIID Subjects le&earcb Committee tem it can be fwdeii!Jy the Faculty Dtvelqlaeat Couuni~~ee. L.:::=======================================================================================================·-.

.P.age 14•. April 22,. 1999 .• arnuco:drie:usi~ Science & Technology Science & Technology An in De nth Visualization of Vision · · by Victoria Hargreaves the shape anlsize of an M&M eyes are too long and have an ab- an im&geare similarly scattered &nd ordination difficult, This condition Science and Technology Editor candy, where they are bent two normally higher retraction power~ blur images jn people who are hy- can also make learning difficult. ------- ..... - ----- more times before hitting the back an image is fo1111ed i-11 front of tbe peropic or farsighted. However, far- While most opto~etrists agree Although we often take it for of the eye. After having passed retinaandthisresultsinrnyopiaor sightedness occurs when the eye· thataperson'svisionanditsma:l- granted, vision is one ofthe most through the cornea and . is too short and tilere functions are genetically pro- vital senses in our everyday lives. lens, the light rays reach is insufficient refracting grammed, some also .believe that Our eyes are possibly the most the retina atthe backofthe . ·power. The images that these malfunctions may be pre- delicate organs of our body, yet eye where two types of theeyesofafarsigllted cipitateqhyhowoneuseshis/her they involve some ofthe most in- cells convert light energy · Cornea person experience are vision (staring), environmental tricate and complex mechanisms. to electrical signals. Rods theoretically focused conditions such as inadequate We are not simply born with our are specialized cells forthe Pu pit behind the retina. Hy- lighting, poor nutrition, and anxi~ vision, but rather it develops processing of black and Iris ·. peropia is treated with ety. throughout our lives. white images while cones ·a convex lens. Another Although it is importantto cor· When ,the eye has no physiologi- convert -c<;>lor images to visual abnormality rect visual dysfunctians with cor- cal defects, light rays are bent to electrical impulses. -, . caHed astigmatism oc- rective lenses, one must rem em- pass through the opening of the These impulses travel . curs when vertical light ber that these devices do not cor- colored iris called the pupil. 1he through the optic nerve to • tays are not as ea5ily re- rect the problem. Glasses and con• muscles of the iris control the di- the brain stem at the top of fractedbythe cornea as tact)enses simply mask the real ameter of the pupil to regulate the the spinal cord, in the cen- horizontally-oriented prr''Jlemto temporarily ameliorate www.bettereyesught,com amount oflightthat enters the back ter ofthebrain. This nerve ·light rays. Amblyopia, vision. -of the eye; when there is too much is connected to synapses also known as 'o;lazy light, the muscles of the iris con- with other cells of the brain until it nearsightedness. The d<Jts of light eye,\ is the inability of the eye to tract, wllichmakesthepupilsmaller, reaches the occipital lobe at the that make up an image are spread focus and exhibit high spatial ac- and when there is insufficient light, back of the brain where the sig- ·out to form a larger disc of l·igl:Jt curacy and judgement. General Bin- the muscles dilate, making the pu- nals are finally converted to what which scatters the smaller dots and; ocular Dysfunction is the inability pit larger to allow more light to en- we see,. vision. causes an image to apJJea.r bluiTed. of the two eyes to callaborate. With- ter Alth()ugh it would be ideal for Myopia can easily be treat-ed with out treatment, eye strain and fa- The light rays then pass through all eyes to be perfect, this is unfor- a concave lens. tigue often result. Visual Perceptual the lens, which is approximately tunately not the case. When the The dots of light that compose Dysfunction tnakes hand-eye co- Sources: http://asia-view.com/cani.html http://bettereyesight.com/non- flash/education.html http://www.pinacleeye,com/ faqO l.html#l.l http://www. vision-care.co.nz/ services.htrn]#Commc.n A Break From the C·omputer and RSis by Stev.e Ayers Contributing Writer RSis are injuries caused by re- of computers. The Bo:rion Glob(! tary schools found that improper tion, I have grown up with com- petitive motion over long periods reported on a Harvard t;enior who setup of computers caused l>ack, puters. We must remember that of time. One of the most widely was forced to give up an internship wrist, and neck pain. While com- computers were designed for hu- America has been very success- known· is Carpal Tunnel Syn- at The Washington Post because puter literacy is thought of as an mans and not the reverse. Cqm- ful in producing a computer-liter.. drome, which begins with mild ofCa~pal Tunnel Syndrome, MIT, essential part of education, correct puters enable us to work more ef- ate workforce, but this may come muscle fatigue in the wrists and Harvard and the University of Vir- posture and usage are not covered. ficiently, but we will always be lim- at a price. As computers are intro- eventually leads to debilitating ginia bave all reported increases i11 · Although treatment ofRSis can ited by our human abilities. duced at an ear lief age, repetitive pain. Eyestrain and back pain are the number of students treated f()f be difficult, prevention is easier. Sources: stress injuries (RSl) also occur in also pr<lblems of extended com~ ~RSI.s. Simultaneously,. most col- Correct posture includes adjusting Jones, Chester S. and Orr, Betsy. younger groups of people. If proper puter use. leges are encouraging students to the keyboard so that the forearms \Computer-related musculoskel- precautions aren't taken, some col- RSis used to be regarded .as a purcltase computers, a trend re- are parallel to the floor and adju.st- etal pain and lege graduates could find their ca- disease of middle-aged workers, fleeted in Renssalaer Polytechnic ing the monitor so that it is directly discomfort among high school reers severely limited by the ad- but have I:Jecome more frequent in Institute's recent requirement that in front of the eyes. It is also impor- students.\ American Journal of v.;..e;;.;.r.;;.se.;....;.ef;;.;.f.;;.iec.;..t.;;.s..;o.;;.f.-c.;;.om~\\u.;..te.;;.r.;..u.-se.;...~-_.;;th_e\\'\\'o;;..;u.,n\'\'\\w.;..;.;;.;it_h_th;;.;.e;;...;;.;;in_c.;;.re;;.;;a-.s.;;.ed.;;;....;.;u.;;.se..._. all eatering freshmen p-Urchase tant to avoid long periods of com- Health Studies. 14 (l): 26-30. A C t • notebook personal computers. puter use and to stop whenever Fung, Abby. \Key tool's over- 0 n n e c . I 0 n : Increases in RSis have even been pain develops, such as a tightness use has many at risk.\ The Boston Arts and Sciences by Alex Militello Contributing Writer At first, there may seem to be no inherent connection between the creative thinking of an artist, and the quantitative life of the scien- tist. At least two Union professors strive to prove otherwise. Roset Khosropour and Nadia Debattista, along with a few other interested researchers, are bringing in four speakers to talk about merging the arts and the sciences. In her own words, Professor Khosropour said, \It is the very essence of [a] liberal arts educa- tion to explore the interconnections between different disciplines, and to promote an understanding of the various human modes of expres- sion and creativity.\ Anyone who has been through the corridors of the physics depart- ment often enough may have no.: ticed the colorful Arts and Science Colloquia posters ondisplayon the walls. The speeches advertised therein range in a number of differ- ent subjects, from the combining of the artistic and musical with the mathematical and physical to pro- ducing lectures of various kinds such as architecture, chaos theory, and fractals, and the science of musical sound. These different speakers are from various locales (funded in part by grants from the Internal Education Fund and the Intellectual Enrich- ment Fund) in order to discuss these different subjects, and pos- sibly what interested them about these subjects. This will be the start of a large- scale effort by the professors in both the departments of Arts and Sciences to offer a new interdisci- plinary major: one which may pro- vide new insight of artistic and sci- entific relationships, but not nec- essarily for the mathematically-in- clined. Most likely, the topics of this major will include the many different facets of creativity and discovery, learning, and the ways in which we see and understand the world around us. In upcoming issues, there will be more in-depth discussions on the various speakers, as well as the topics which they will be dis- cussing. On Friday the 23, there will be a talk given by Nat Fried- man of SUNY Albany entitled \Hyperspace Hyperseeing, and Hypersculptures\ at 12:15 PM in Physics N304, and a week later on the thirtieth by Jim Ring of Hamilton College who will deliver a speech entitled \The Influence of Modem Technology on Archi- tecture.•• Fo<Yd and refreshments will be provided. observed in younger students. A or buming sensation in the wrists. Globe. Sept 7, 1998:B I. study by the University of Alabama Study breaks should involve leElv- Mendels, Pamela. \School com- found that four percent of tile high ing the computer, rather than surf- puters might harm posture.\ The school students had Carpal Tun- ingthelnternetorcheckingemail. NewYorkTimes.Jan nel Syndrome. Asurveyofelemen- Like many people in my genera- 17,1999:16. Compute.r Audio:MP3s by Daniel Kelma11o~id1 Staff Writer Did you ever wonder how all your friends get those C()ol songs on their computers with()utusing a CD? Tile most likely cause is a well- established audio format called MP3 (MPEG level3). This format uses audio compres- sion to provide near-CO-quality- sound at a 10 to I compression ra- tio. This means that massive amounts of audio information can be st()red in a small am()unt of memory. Take, forexample, a nor- mal audio CD. The maximum audio infonnation that a typical CD can hold is approximately 600 mega- bytes. With the MP3 audio format, this album can be compressed to 60 megabytes. Both the decrease in the file size and the illcrease in compu.ter hard drives makes stor- ing music on a computer much easier and mote practical. Several new devices .have been put on the market to tak.e advan- tage of the MP3 format. One such device is made by Diamond Multi- media and is called Ri<J; Rio is a portable MP3 player that IJo()ks up to a C()mputer through its parallel port. It is totally digital and lacks any moving parts. This eliminates the skipping that CD players are prone to. Rio has enough memory to store approximately 60 rn inutes of audi<>. The MP3 files that are downloaded from the Internet can then be trans- ferred to Rio and listened to while on-the-go. The device costs around $200 and comes with soft- ware and cables. The MP3 files can be purchased from licensed sites. On a computer, an MP3 file can. be played by using programs I ike Winplay3, WinAmp, or even Win- dows Media Player. Any of these will work with MP3 audio files. The record industry has had some concerns about the MP3 for· mat By using MP3 compression, whole CO's can be downloaded to a computer's hard drive and tile songs transferred over the Internet. The ease at which the music can be transferred has brought many copyright issues into play. lndus- try officials also worry that using this compression allows backup copies ofthe music to be retained. In case the audio CD you bougllt gets damaged, you ceuld always have a backup copy. This differs from the past where if the record, tape, or CD was damaged, a sec- ond copy !tad to be purchased. Purchasing a second copy of mu- sic provides additional revenue to music companies, which would lose this income ifthe music was able to be backed-up. Another issued that is bother- ing the music industry is the abil- ity ofartists to save their music in MP3 format and distribute it over the Internet This would bypass the roJe.ofmusic companies caus- ing a loss in revenue. Along with these losses in control comes the ability of individuals to send the music over the Internet. By hav- ing the capability to trade songs, the music industry has encoun- tered the same piracy problems faced by the software industry. The MP3 audio format allows for the efficient storage of audio in- formation. Even though copyright infringements and piracy may be a problem, the format hopes to en- hance the quality of PC audio as well as improve how audio infor- mation is handled in other sys- tems.

e J £a~s atuf P.nviromriertta( Change Vnion Co{{ege r£nc,ironmenta{Stud1'es Seminar series 29 April 1999 '·O:QP.M·. ,;., .!. ·115 Olin Center SEDIMI~NT RECORD Ot' BALLSTON tAKE AS AN ARCHIVE Olr WATER QUALITY Paul T .. Gren1ilJion Unlo11 College v Formed some !2,000 years agt). Ballston l.~ke tJCClipies the former course ofthe Mohawk River. Since that time. the lake has qt:iet!y sat and recorded the events around iL This scnsitl vc mdicatorof,environmental cimnge 1s just now heing tapped for our better understanding of en'lironmemal cha11g~ i11 thi'S at~a. One umque attribute of tb.e Lake iS the fact that it is meromt-:;ttc, which means ihat rht~ water m t~e deep southem end is and ha.o; been isolated from the upper waters. Th1s impo11anr condinon · has resuited in a number of fascinatmg atttibu!c:>, foremost among them is that the there 1s a nearly contmuous record of clill]Ute change. Dr. Grerniliion W!!l outline the ''Ballston Lake Initiative'! at Union College and wtii r~view the major findings to date. · --··- .. -- -------- Public lecture. :111 mlksardrecan.! •>r.e.1 H•thepu\lht All a11ernnon1nlk$ smrt Jl S·OO PM. wnh rcfrcshm.:ntl ;r.r~cl3t ;L.)O Pici!c;e wll i_e.!n CLJI\IC}~ Err\'iton:nent::ll Stlldle5·l'\r¢S!lm. 5 J 8-33~ .,;no tn nd1r\ltll'\! -~~ tO~JIU .lS~Igmltei~H :111~·urnc~ Jle ~ubjC!:Uo·..:i:.ang.t- 1 ~ •• Mm·c,Jlit:rm~t~~in; ~~!p.li~il~·on_.g~~.o_gy.~~Fl<'n.cdu ..• _ . 1 ~ r· _ .. - , · Francis Bacon said knowledge is power. Hudson V~tlley CommunityCollege'ssummer courses are designed to give you power- designed to give you the power to win in our high-tech, information-rich, globally competitive world. The choice is simple -get ahead this summer. Every one of Hudson Valley's more than 300 summer courses- everything from Accounting or Calculus to English or Biology - gives you credits to take to any one of hundreds of colleges nationally. And, our c::redits cost less. Hows that for power! Call today to learn more. HUDSON VALLEY COMMUNITY COLLEGE TROY, NEW YORK 518 .. 270-HVCC WWW.HVCC.EDU - -~~- - - - ~ . - - - - --'- -- - - - ·SUMMER SESSIONS BEGIN MAY 24 AND JtiLY 6 Part of the Stdte University of New York Sponsored by Rensselaer County Hudson Valley Community (.oll~.ge does not discriminate 011 the batJis ol age, gender, race, ethnicity, natkmal arigin, religion, diSibling condition ~r ~xual orientt~lion. RITE AID - Photo Processing Go to RITE AID for All of Your Photo Needs RITE AID is located on Van Franken Ave (518) 382-3304 Is YOURS1toc· • g? the AllcrosoN CCNA· ('c,;:sco.J, & DBA, Alrorre.- entraiAve 111Aibany 5-9325

Page 16 · · April22, 1999 .. Learn to Live for Yourself Last week, th~ Visual Arts De- partment invited photographer Thomas Roma to speak to mem- bers of the Union cotnmunity. He gave a brief talk about his artistic work over the years and some of the motivations behind his photo- graphic imagery. Although he was a somewhat brash and sarcastic man, he did make one comment that has been sitting heavily on my brain for a while now. When asked about his photo- graphs, and why he ch()se to make pictures, he respondedthathetook pictures for other people. Although I cannot quote him word for word, he said that everything that most people do .is for the benefit of oth- ers, to get a reaction and create a response from an audience of view- ers. Being an artist myself, I was a bit appalled by his comment. I had always believed that my painting and my artwork was something that I gave to myself. A creative release that meant more to me :than any- thing else, simply becal!se it was mine: my own creation. Since early childhood, I had been talented with transferring onto pa- per what I saw in front of me. I enjoyed seeing a form appear on the once blank, white page ... a form that I had drawn using my hand to push a piece of graphite, I have nothing to complain abeut this week. I am shocked, just as much as you probably are. This will be a column about nice and happy things. It wiJI flow with eloquent prose. Dot the i's. Dot the· semicolons. Cross the +' s. Under! ine the . Let's discuss ------- Spring. This section should be read in the voice of the baby from the Family Guy. Oh Spring Tenn, how I love thee. ·encased in wood, across a fiat sur- face. A pencil was such a magical thing, and l had been blessed with the wonderful ability to use that pencil to create another world on a sheet of paper. Crayons and colors were like candy for my hands; 1 wuld make purple trees and orange dogs, red alligators and blue rocks. There were no real rules in the realm of art, I made pictures and reveled in my power to do so. However, there was always that thought in the back ·of my mind that'I weu:ld be excited to show my vibrant images to my parents. That I would make my parents proud and the drawing would win a cov- eted place on the refrigerator, held in place by a large, plastic alpha- bet magnet. As much as I did draw to amuse myself, there was always that part of me that was drawing for the possibility ofdisplay and .praise. But this is something I have al- ways kept hidden; I never wanted anyone tothinkthatmyhobbywas for the purpose of getting attention. And for the most part, it was not. I · do love painting and drawing and sculpture. Whenthatspeaker; Tho- mas Roma, so blatantly laid him- self out and said that he created photos to be viewed by others, I felt a slight tug at my pride and sense ofhonesty. I knew that part the masses that giving money back to the Greeks is not so bad? Two I love the poop that pops up on the grass around the Nott during the spring. It makes her look so much better. You know, being surrounded by poop is a way to make one much more attractive to pre-frosch. Three I love your excellent weather. Let me count the ways. But, oh how you tease me with your warm Sun. Oh, that sphere One of infm.ite heat and light. Yet, your Thank you spring for bringing to ~ .wir\ds bi()W' me.a~ay and keep me our school the Water Stree~ Blues from wMring trty beloved sh9rts. Band. Anyone who saw them last Oh Schizophrenic Goddess of Saturday knows how mucl! we love · Spring. Please ·make up your thee. People who missed out were mind. YouCI:re starting to C()nfuse too cheap to pay a nominal fee to me. see them. Oh Spring I am perplexed. Why is it that when fraternities are free (most of the time) the birds of a feather flock inside? But when the time comes to pay a small amount of money to see an incredible band and drink, th.e birds are flocking outside. Oh Spring, how do we convince Four Oh Spring, I love how the urine flows from our genitalia in public places. Some choose to relieve them- selves on the U. Someurinate·on the Dutchmobile. Some drunk bastards wee-wee on their roommate's girlfriendsj acciden- of the impetus behind my paint- ings had to d<J with the intended audience, but was unwilling to admit that was the entire reas.oa, If you step back and really look at your life, it is hard to draw the \Ifyo.u look~ deep into the. core of anyone's • • motlvatton, there is a general desire to be· noticed.'' line between things you do for yourself and things you do for the sake of other people. As much as we would like to believe th:at we have our own interests and desires, the majority of the decisions we make and actions we take are spurred by their possible ·effect on tally believing them to be the toi- let. The realm of the \outside\ is everyone's potty of choice. So, Spring, keep the urine flowing like Beast Light out of a keg, and you will not disappoint me. Five some other human being. Although it is probably quite an unpleasant look at human nature, l do question the reasoning behind actions for atl people. Does a de- voted charity worker give his time and effort because he likes what he is doing, or is .it because he en~ joys being viewed by society as a moral, upstanding citizen? Does a basketball ingenue like Kobe Bryant play th~ gatne because he loves it, or because he loves the attention he can stir out of the crowd? Do smdents excel because they want to or because they are motivated .to please theft parents and professors or impress their peers? I would like •to believe that the answers to all those questions deal more with the former part of each statement than the latter, but I can- not be sure. If you look deep into the core of anyone's motivation, there is a general desire to be no- ticed. The base truth of that fact is a reality of human nature. The search for acclaim and praise is a never-ending one. Perhaps in childhood, we are most \selfish.\ It is then that we d<?things for the sheer pleasure of the action, without regard for feed- back from the world around us. As we become more social beings we slowly lose that enrapture in our own minds. We begin to care more would love to hear \Walk This Way\ or \lt' s Tricky\ just once more before \1 graduate from Union. Please put the \bad bands\ back in Union. Oh Spring, l am beg- ging you. I love the event called Six Springfest. Oh yes. Oh Spring, I love the fact that I· Strangefolk will be jamming 'boughraCyberwraptoday and the there this year. They are anoth¢r · ... r!ce was not cooked at all. I: greatjaJil band that will be vecy: ·,chippe_Q._a t<Joth on your devilish. danceable. rice. But your other selections in- Oh Spring, this is something that: trigue me. We will have yet an- I should not have to worry about. other crappy reggae band that cov- Oh Spring, I pray that someone ers five different versions of \No who works in Dutch is reading this: W <Jman No Cry.\ and fixes thy \rice of death\ situa- And of course there is' alWay\s < Hon,'imnie~iateJy: . ·. ,,.: that sieeper hit band Gravity Sux :>) :-,,; ,. ·- • about what other people think than what we think for ourselves. Trav()lling through eal'ly adult- hood, I believe that the search to rediscover a sense of\selfishness\ is our strongest battle. I do not know if I am alone in these thoughts. Maybe everyone else out there is doing everything for his/ her own self. I can only say that it is a struggle I am still attempting to define. I am looking for the rea- soning behindmy artwork, behind my studies, behind my choice of friends. When I am at the point where l can actuaUy say that I am living my life just for me, maybe then I will feel right in my skin. It is an uneasy state to be in; re- alizing that many of my motives have more to do with others than myself. Hopefully, l ban find the part of me that still loves running for the feel of 1he wind against my face, not for the fact that it keeps me \appearing\ healthy to otherwise disapproving peers. Hopefully I can find the child in me that loves to color becal!se it is fun, not be- cause l want someone to praise me and hang my picture on a wall. I do have passions in my life that I believe to be for my own selfish reasons, and hopefully I can hang onto them until this phase ()fun- certainty passes. •.• · -;··~;:;: ..•.. ·.· '. ' .. · ~ .. .. .. . lt~3~P\£~s · ··s~tw.r or Defying Gravity. I am not sure Seven . ,. 1 :·: ,·.·.,:ttilaio?.··:;; of their name, something to do Oh Spring,, Lf~ve tlJe way I tfy · with physics. And they probably to write sometl(ing·m~~and it tums . i' suck out to be an<>t~eF:J;!lllt;. The word is that we mighfp6s-:· Letters can be einailed ·sibly get another washed up rap aronowm2@union.edu or sent di- group (anyone remember rectly to Mail Box#0040. Pharcyde?). That group could be Oh Spring,it's all your fault. Oh Run DMC. They have recently spring, screw you and your kicked off their \Geriatric Tour\ matriarchial tryanny. Good-bye with Aerosmith, Wayne Gretzky, cruel world. and the cast of 90210. Man,. I . Oh Spring.

,__ ............ ~--~-~~~_.....-~ ................. _ ........ ___ c...._,, .. ~_......,._~,- .. ---·~- .......... ._,- .... ...- ....... ~-'\\~ ••. ,.,,~·~ _ .. 0 \~ '\\-·-·• ...... ··- - ................. ~~ ... o.-. -~ '''0• • 0 '\\ ·-· ....... ...,.,,...,., .. ~.-·o•• , ..... , .. ,., #0., _ _,., ........................ -,..,_ \• ..... , ..... ,. .. ....,_..,._ .• ~ ............ .._,., .. ..,_ - ,_..,........,...,_ .. _,._~- ----\\'\'W'•o~~ --- ..,.__- .. ._. ......... \''~~ t Fea·tUres~.: .. , \\: ' ' . '' . r ., C!1oncndriett!Sit!Si • April2l, 1999. Page 1 i Word···search Courtesy of Collegiate Presswire 'G\.~N. I X 0 I D 'Q R I y p :.N v y E s A K w H 0 T H L 0 X w w E 0 F u M R A v \';{ I L R E D N E E c B w v F T w M G I G I L I y p Q D c v y G c D -T T K D s D 0 E u B A I c A B Q z T G H T M N y T. T .• T T E y B c Q -. 0 v p J s 0 R 0 E s z I E R Q F 0 'S v R X K K v z T p R B R T y T I s R E v I D 0 s E N 0 u N A A K H z M B 0 D M ' s R s N p 0 I L ' ' s D T u T'A R E u s E D -- u G F H c z u N w R E T v s D E z E H J N 0 I T .Q A M A w N p u R p T s y u z N X X - G 8 F 0 E u c K J w w E A A G 0 p T Earth Day 1999 ACTIVIST BIODIVERSITY ·CLEAN CONSERVATION DIOXIN EARTH DAY ENDANGERED FORESTS GLOBAL WATER HABITAT OZONE PARKS PESTICIDES POLLUTION c F X z J T ,J u H v ,G .. D x.v R F Q L .E s z A p 0 R s H ,G c B E I X B 0 A G R c u N L-N E y R s w A c R X E A D y E. E R R N c N p v M E L I B A I N E J G T N y G s A I G B p s A 0 B z R A w N A E L u L L 0 p v I v I T c A w z y B u u T L w N L v PROTECTION WARMING RECYCLE REDUCE REUSE TOXINS TREE HUGGER YOUNG VOTERS N s ' B G w ' 8 H A I J F Q I c p c B z F L Q w B z A F I s T s E R 0 F Q A 0 w Fill in the Blank Concorcliensis' take on Mad Libs. Play with a friend, ask him/her to pr<>vide you with,the responses for the things named under tile blank spaces without reading the storyline. After theyteU you their answers, read the story back to him/ her with the filled-in blanks. This weekend is going to be so much fun! My friends, ---:~~- and have planned to go to Boy's Name Girl's Name ------=------=---~~· . I heard that they are going to have Fraternity NUIIe and there! --~~-~-- -------- Plural Noun Plural Noun Spring is always sucha __ -:-:-:---:-----timeat Union Adjective Co Uege. There are so many ----::::---:-:-:----- and we Plural Noun can finally wear-~-=~--· Unfortunately, we still Article of Clothing ha~e to attend class and finish hours of work --:-:---:--- Number every night At least we go to a small school and can ~-~V7'-er:-b ---- with our professors to convince the:tn to give u.s extentions! I can't wait for the warm weather to set in so I can on the lawn outside ----~~-- ------------ Verb Donn on Campus U ntiJ then, I will just have to have a____ __.time Adjective this weekend with my friends. Hopefully, I won't run into --:-:----::-::-~:----:-~-'because that would truly ruin my Name of Person• in tlle Room weekend! 1'11 just make sure that I avoid -::-:-----:::--- Place on Campus so I can ensure that I won't have any unwanted run-ins! April1999 Mon The Wed Tha NEW AT THE RATHSKELLAR: **FREE SOUTH PARK PINB/\LL . **ICE COLO SLUSHY Fri Utin night with · · regic;nal food Sat N~w i111d improved Cbk:ken Parms and Chicken Fmaera. Rathskellar \Beach Party\

A. Page Softball Excited With PrOgress at Mid-Season by Brian Terlillsl{y Sports Editor For the most part, the southern spring break trip to florida was truly beneficial forthelJnion soft- ball team. Union went to Florida, discovered the team's o veraH abil- ity, and from the start of tile sea- son, the team has seem much de- velopment and achie-vement from within. With a team consis1ing of many freshman and soph()mores, the Union softball team -w;as in ques- tion about their stance and capa- bility for the 1999 season. Obviously, as the C()!iches, play- ers and the rest of the UCAA has seen so far, this was all ;an illusion. The Union team contiruues to bet- ter itself and its record every game they play. Division H rivalin the first game of the doubleheader. However, as most softball teams value their success around their pitchers, Union has also de- pended on strong offense as wel1 as defense. Uni<m has also been successful in batting and has made key plays in tigllt situations while on the field. Freshman Melinda Colon helped her tea1:11 this week on the offensive sideandwas also named by the UCAA \Rookie of the Week.\ Colon had four hits, with 12 at bats, adcled two runs, three RBI's and one stolen base for Union. Currently, at the rurni11g point of the season, the teaJnl C()ntinues to dominate the UCAA, holding the number one positi~n, and has an overall fmn record ()f 14-Ci-0. Another player to help Union keep on the willn·ing pace was jun- ior Sarah Cardullo. Her six hits in nine at bats, in~luding four runs and two RBI's, was good enough to be elected t() UCAA \Honor Roll\ this week. Cardullo a)s(} is the leader in bat- ting in the UCAA, as she has a current averageof .455; with a to- tal of 10 hits~ eight runs and five RBI's. Melind<JColon is right be- hind Cardu11o in batting, with an average of .35(), 14 hits and 11 RBI's. Alex Militello Sophomore Brooke Schoenen swings at a pitch during the Union game against Albaey last week. Union has been fol'tul\ate to have excellent pitching from three young players, Meg Cr()wiey, Sa- rah Johnston, a11d. Apryle Pickering, who have co11tributed so much this season to t'ht: team. Just to add a bit llloOre on the pitchers of Union soft:b;all, sopho- more Meg Crowley wras named UCAA \Pitcher of th.e Week.\ Crowley has been sens;atiollal for Union, as sbe·threw a tllree-hitter and.shutoutDivision II :SlrnY Al- bany last Thursday. Albany has beaten Ulnionin the last three meetings since I ~96, b11t Crowley struck out three and walked only one batter to give Union a 2-0 win over the a tough Other ncte worthy statistics in- clude senior Taryn Samol, who leads the UCA.A in stolen bases with seven a11d also bas three homeruns, whici'l currently is the most in the leaglle. Fr~shman Sa- rah Johnstcn still remains the out ... standing pitcher in tile UCAA,- withanera()fl.27insix gamesand averages 4.2 strik.eouts per game. This past week. Unio11 had four big doubleheaders to get pumped;. lip for. Last Tuesday, Middlebury was no match f<Jr tile Union soft- ~~ ball team. In the first game, sophomore pitcher Apryle Pickering had at} excellentgame, allowing only five hits and striking out four batters, winning tile game for Uniol\14-3. However, there was ·no doubt thatjunicr SarahCardullowas the player ofthe game. She had three hits, with two runs and two RBI' s, and also got her first career hcmerun in the fifth inning. And to conclude the game, Cardu-llo batted in the game win- ing run in the seventh inning. Other plelyers to add .some fir.e on the field were freshmen Audrey Brennan and Melinda Colen, who had a triple and a singlet() soore a run, respectively. Despite the many younger players, tile whole team has formed a hond that has brought great· success this year. ~ 'fri the ·.secon~ g~filec, ~Safah Johnston took the mound and gave .up only three hits, in an 8-0 shut- out. On Thursday, SUNY Albany came to Union to look to. build on theirthree-yearwining.streak of the Dutcbwomen. However, this ye~ would be di:ffereilt, as Union would splitthe d<luble header, winning z._ 0 in the fust game, and losing 5-3 in the second game, in extra in- nings. Meg Crowley started the game and allowed only two hits in the first game shutout. Junior Tara McManus smashed a single into feft field, scoring Sh- annon Uiwlor in the first inning. ln the sixth inning, Julie Cardettino doubled to center field, scoring Taryn Sam() I who scored from first base. lntbesecondgame, Albany ·• rejuveriated\ dbd.,.got ·oack on' the wi11ing!trac:k. Although Union was wi11ning until tb~·fourth, Albany was able to tie the score at three. and go o:nto victory in extl'a in- nings. Desp.ite th¢ Io~s. Taryn Samolllad another si~gle, which scored a run for Union in the first irming, while. Shannon Lawlor also bad a double in the second inning. scoring tw() more runs for the Dutchwomen. lJnionps game on Saturday against Uti!Ca was postponed due to rain. Union also took 011 Capi.- tai;Region rival, RPI on T11esday. Results from the RPl gamewiU appear in next .week's issue .alo11g with results from this weekend's games. Union takes on New Paltz today at home and then Skidrtt<lre on Saturday in Saratoga Springs. (UCM) (Overall)· w~L~T 14-6-0 13 ... 9-0 ·Team •Union ·RPI .·Skidmore Roches1er ·Hamilton W-L~T 2-0...0 0-0~ 0-4-0 .. NA ,, NA PTs 6 0 0 . ··3..:1:4-Q 10-14~0 Concordy Meeting Tonight at 6PM in Room . 303 ofCC.

e s v l 1 t ) •· ; r \' Tennis Places Sixth at State Tournament by MarkShe111el StaffWri(er The Union College Men's Tennis Team finished last week's set of matc:hes with two victories and two losses. Earlier last week, the team crushed Utica CQilege, 7- 0, giving up not even one set. At first dotib les, freshman John Betjemann and junior Gabe Agnello defeated their <>pponents 8-2. Atseconddoubles,freshman George Verghese imd senior SuclheeT P<1tluri defeated their opponents 8~2. At third doubles, freshman Adam Feldman and junior JDSh Winograd defeated their <lpponents 8-2. At first singles, senior Sudheer Potluri defeatedhis.()pponent6-4, 6-3. At second singles, junior Gahe Agnello defeated his opponent 6- 2, 6·1. At third singles, freshman George Verghese defeated his oppone11t 6~2, 6-1. At fourth singles, si)phomore John D'Entrernent defeated his opponellt().-4, 6-1. At fi:fth singles, fre~lunan Adam Feldman quickly dismissed his opponent 6•0, 6-0~ At sixt.h sjngles, junior Josh Wi~ogracl defeated his .opponent 6-4,6-1. This past weekend, the team played in the UCAA Tennis Tour- namentaad emerged with one vic- tory and tw() losses, finishing as expected in sixth.place. Although Union dicl n<lt finish the weekend with a win.ni11g r~cord~ the matches played.'iVere very exciting and will be re~JJe:lllbered. Marked by amaz- ing c:orneb.acks, these matches prov~d ttl the team that anything i~> ,possible if on() plays from his heart in:ste!ld ()f 11is muscle. C>n. Saturday, Ullionlost it's first in a close three set m.atch against At second doubles, freshman Cosma. This year, lwwever, the George Ve~ghese and senior tables were turned asD'Entremont Sudheer Pot[uridefeated their op- defeated his skilled ()pponent in a ponents 8-6. At first singles, se- third set tie-breaker score of 7-5. nior Sudheer Potluri defeated his He!ld Coach Bill Scanlon com· opponent 8-:2. At third singles, men ted that this was the best play- · freshman Ge<Orge Verghese wo'n a singles, junior Josh Winograd de- feated his opponellt 8-0. On Sunday nl()rning, the team lost a very close match, 4-3, to St. Lawrence. The highlight of this match was the third d()ubles match played by freshman Mark Shemel and sophomore J()hnD'Entremont. Being down, 6-3, to their oppo- nents, Shemel and D'Entremont made a huge comeback, winning five games in a row to defeat their opponents 8-6. During their come- back, freshman Mark Shemel took a hasty spill and injured his knee. With his knee in incredible pain; Shemel refused to back dawn and finished the comeback for the vic- tory. His athletic and cempetitive spirit overcame the pain. Other wins ofthat match came from second doubles Sudheer Potluri and George Verghese, and sixth singles Josh Winograd; who won his match before even getting on the court. The UCAA Toarnament was definitely a learning experience for the team. Assistant Coach Greg Roman commented that the team may have not been mentally pre- '-----~-----------..:..:.w\--~------~------------l pared to play. Cory Silken/TC Senior Sudheer Pot/uri practices his $froke to prepare for the State Tolf1'nament. . \ . - .. ~.- ~ . . - matchtothdtdseededRPI, 5-2. The ing he has seen in D~Entremont close match, '9-8, 7-2, in the tie- high ligM ()f t.his match was the since he first began playing at breaker. At f()urtb singles, fresh- singlesma:icib between sophomore Union. man Adam Feldman defeated his Jolut D'Entrernont of Union and lnthe second and longest match opponent 8-4. At fifth singles, his ~long-time rival, Adrian Cosma of the day, (six hours) Union de- sophomore John D' Entremont de- ofRPL Last,e:ar,D'Entremontlost feated Clarkson by a score of4-3. feated his opponent 8-4. At sixth '.' For the five new freshmen on the team, this was their first UCAA tournament and were unsure of what to expect. As for the rest of the team, their attitu<les were con- fident that the team's I ucky bever- age Bellywash will carry them to a winning season. Track & Field Co.JDpetes in UCAA Championships -·Both Union Men's cind Wome-n's Teams Take Fourth Place ' ~ . ' ' · bj Peter Flynn Staff Writer The men':s and womerl's track teams· competed against Ham iltori, RPI, Va8sar~attd St. Lawrence at the UCAA Championship· trteet this past weekend. Both the men and women placed fourth -at tile meet. V assl:ll' College, making. it's first ap• pe&ranoe at -this meet as a track club, will ()ffieiallybe a member of theUCAA next year. The star of the day was Missy Matusewi:ci, who was Union's only double winner. Matusewicz won the long jump with a jump of 4.76m, and the triple jump with a hop, skip .an<! a jump of l0.25m. These jllmps rank Matusewicz among the best in the state. Otlterwinners for Union include Carolyn Cieslowski, who won the discus with a toss of 33.81 m, and Brian Roy Wllo heaved the javelin 46.68m f()r the win. Brain Roy scored a f()tal of 37 points for the men in the javelin (I 0), the l()ng jump(5),thetriplejump(8), the pole vault(6)andthe 110m highhurdles (8). In the women's 3000m, all of Union's participant's (Amy Stabich, C:Henna Mal.colm and Marie Maarer) had their season's best times with ll :37.61, 11 :49.32 and 12:16 .OJ respectively. Slabich also competed in the 800m and had a season 'sbest in the l500m with a 5:10.11. In the tnen' s l500m, Jeff Morse had what can be called a \brealcth;r()llgh~' ·race. He finished · in4:2J.5:8; a personal record by 12 secon!is. After the race; Morse · said~ f'Titose w~rethem()stpainful 150t)rn ·of !Fly life~\· First yearnulllerMaureen Farrell had an hl:!lpresslve ,petf-onnance in .. the 8C0111 tinishingjust one·second behind'SEabiclr in a timeof~:34.60. Chris Stro-hsahl also ·cQmpeted this weekel!cl. The' ggod news is thlrtStr()hsaltlr.itnthe400inforthe first. time th3s- season in a quick 53 A 7 !i'ec:or:u:ls. rhe ball Ilews i:s that· his room111a:te, J ()n Nieman, has repla<:ed Strohsahl as the 4x400tn anchor ·leg. Consequently, Nike has P' ostp().n ed Chris' shoe contrac:tamdwe will all have to wait another :year for the \Air Strdtsahl's\ to come out. (Sorry ladies.~ · llerre are this weekend's results: W01net1' s: L()ng Jump l :Missy MatuseYNi,cz 4. 76m Discus 1. CarofynCiesgowski 33.8lm lOOm 6.Renee R.itlald I5.88 lOOm Hurdles 4.Rinaldi 19'.51: 'Tripfe Jump 1. Matus~wiic:z 1025 200m 4.Katie Smith 2!;51 3.Andrea Lapietra 3256 1500n15AmySLabich 5:10.1 I 7. Mariel\faurer5:36.17 8. Alex ·- . ..,. . . Podgorny ():1 5.80 9.Carrie Welch 6:17.90 401)m 2.KatieSmitl163.45 6.KamaJT'ysoJt6&.19 &OOm 5. Amy Slabich 2:33.15 6.MaureenFarrell 2:34,6!J l();l'viegan Lee 2:45.21 11. Kamal t'ys()1!2:49.00 3000m 7 Amy Slablclt 11 :l1.619.GiennaMalcolm 11:49.:3.2 IO.Marie Maurer 12: 16.03:854x800m (Tyson, Farrell, Siablch, Malcolm) 10:5~.24 Men's: Shot Put 5. Shawn Shopniyer 12.03m Javelin I. Roy 46.6~m 7. Shopmyer 35.40m Pole Vault 3.Roy 3.20 Lo11g Jump 2. Jesse Prisco 6.29m 4:Roy 5.98m 8.Btl:mdan Carney 55.()m Triple Jump 2. Roy 12.7lm 4. Darlington 12.38:m High Jump 2.Darlington L77rn 4x100m 2. {Kaneko, Whittington, Strohsaill, Prisco) 45.:52 l500m 5. PeterFiynn4:12.21 · 6.JeffMorse4:2l.58110m Hurdles 2. Roy l6.69400m 4. ChrisStohsahl 53.47 1OOm 4. Atsu Kaneko 11.65 6.Ptisco 11.93 9..Jerald Whittington 12.65 IO.Asad Chouclhry 14.12 800m 8.Fiynn 2:04.5& II. Matt Conley 2:05.49 !5.Steve Schuler 2:08.12 17.John Houg:hton2:10.21 200in 6.Kaneko 23.92 9.Whittington 26.22 I O.Choudhry 27.88: 5000m 3.Flynn IS:32.83 I OOOOm 8.Corey Mathis 45:17.6 4x400 2.. (Darlington, Whittington, Kaneko, Nieman) 3:4220 4x800 (Schlllet, Morse, Conley, Flynn) 8:51.61 Track Notes: The state track meet is in two weekends. Brian Roy will be com- peting in the state decathlon com- petiti()n this Sunday at Ithaca. The rest ofthe team will be competing at RPI again this Saturday. For many, this will be the last meet of the (short) seas()n. For oth- ers, it will be the final tune-up be- fore states. Good luck t;Q all com- petitors Track SophoMore Missy Matusewicz stretches before her race.

... Sports (!Ia:ucndriensis; • April22-, 1'999 • P~ge~O Women's Lacrosse Earns ·Respect it Deserves by David Brooks Editor-,in-Chief In what was tlle biggest week- end .of the season for the Dutchwomen, Union proved their critics wrong after defeating Clarkson, 14-5, as well as taking sole possession .()f the UCAA af- ter a strong 12 .. 6 victory over St. Lawrence. \We carne out slow again,\ said captain Jess Paige. \Sometimes we don't get fired u:p for the lesser teams.\ However, the Dutch women pu lied together to beat the Golden Knights and ex- tended their perfect season in the UCAA. Union was lead by junior Abby Harris, who had five goals and an assist on tile day. Captain Sarah Moss tossed in three goals ofher own, while classmate Shoko Okado added two goals. Okado said, \We really didn't play our game.\ Even while not playing on top oftheirgame, the Dutchwomen walked away with a win, goals, Union cruised to and the momentum car- e top of the UCAA. ried into Saturday's Moss, Sam Ryall, and Mar• against St. Lawrence. garet Merriam each had two \From the warm-ups, goals en n;mte to the 12-6 we knew we could beat \We playedasateam. them,\ said Harris \We Both the. offense and the came out with the inten· defense played awesome on sity and fire we lacked Saturday.\ against Clarkson.\ ..... , .... ..,.. Today, Union . travels to Linda Bevelander added; New Paltz to face a rather \From the breakfast I weak team. The Roc:hester knew we wouldplay well. gall).e on Saturday has be- We were in our zone come the biggest game of walked on the field with the season. Unionjumped the confidence we woul<l to 16 in the national poll, win.\ St. Lawrence,. fresh. while Rochester feU cut of offa 12-11 win overRoch- the polls. A win will secure ester (13 in nation}was n<! first place fin.ish in the match forthedetennined UC~.A, and also give the h a r d - w o r k i n g Dutch women a good chance Dutchwomen. At th forahomeplayoffgame.AI- half, Union held a 7-3 thoughtheteamalwayshas lead, and the· saidtheytakeonegameata Dutch women neverL_.:..:...:~~..:.:::2::±:.:.52~i1=;:;:3:':~?:-~~· time, the Rochester game is looked back. Lead once MilleriTe intheirminds. Paigeadmit- Junior Abby. Harris has surely contributed to again by the scoring ted, \We are all thinking success (jf the team· this year. power ofHarris, whohad about Rochester.\ saidHar .. '. ris \We are clearly focussed en Rochester. The key to our· success starts with the warm-up. We need to 'be intense and ready to play.\ Okado adds, \We definitely have the potentild to beat Rochester. If we play like we did a,gainst St. Lawrence, we hav~ c;t· great chance.\ \They have four strong player,\ says Bevelander \we. need to take them ()Ut of the: game.\ Bevelander concludes, \We are a better team. lfwe play our game, we will win.\ The women close out their regu- lar season at Hamilton on Tuesday. Saturday'sgame is the no doubt the biggest ofthe season.and a win would lock up the UCAA and give Union a good shot at a home play- off game. TO THE POINT Abby Harris was m.u:n.ed the \lJCAA f'layer ofthe Week'; with 12 goals and three assjsts. in three games. 8arab 1\tossandStephauie Mayche·ck were both named \UCAA Honor Roll.\ Men\sLacrosse Comes up with Breakthrough Weekend Union Cruises to Two Straight Victories During Visit to the North Country by Hugh Meyer Staff Writer Coming off an unsuccessful weekend with losses to Skidmore and RPI,the Union College Men's Lacrosse Team wanted to put the past behind them and focus on dis- covering the tougll team defense and dilige.pt .work ethic; which en- abled them to be very competitive in their preyious contests. Three difficult games faced the Dutch- men this past week: Albany State, Clarkson anrl St. Lawrence. These were very talented programs, which would test the heart and desire ofthe Dutchmen. Last Wednesday ~the Union Col .. lege Men* s Lacrosse team faced Albany SUite, a Division Two level program. However,the Dutchmen came out poised to put forth their game program to ilisrupt the Al- bany State offense. Freshman Pat F orreststarted in goal again for the Dutchmen and came through with another solid performance. In total he made 15 saves, many ofwhich came from point- blank range. The defense. anchored by NiCk Goater, Jordan Thomas, Dave Gatti and Chace MacMuJien, also play very well and delivered crushing hits, which prevented Albany fr~m breaking the game open. Unfortu- nately, Albany State p~owd Joo difficult an opponent for Union and would prevail, 7-4. Co- Cap- tains Steve Hoyt afld Tim Benson each scored for Union--along with Scott Dutcher and Nick Balascio. After a strong perforrn<,mce against Albany State, tile Union Men's Lacrosse team was' com .. posed and very prepared· for tWo extremely critical games against Clarkson and then St. Lawrence. These two weekend corrtests would make or break the season of the Union Men's Lacrosse team. On Friday, April 16, the Union Men's Lax team took on Clarkson University. The Captains stressed the significance of the game in terms of the restofthe season and the future of the program. Clarkson jumped out to and early lead and kept the Union defense ()D their heals for most of the first half. However, freshman goalie Pat Forrest kept Union in the game with ~some exce Uent saves. When the half.\ The offense was led by Kurt would score his first two coll~giate first halfwas over Clarkson led s.. Kimball, who tallied three goals and goals and fellwo attackmen Jon 4. At halftime the Captains and one assist, while Nick Balascio Schiff tallied three goals to put Coaches told the team to remain scored two goals and had one Union ahead to stay. The Dutch- focused and they would find the assist. Pat Forrest made exceptional men scored five straight goals and back ofthe net. Sure enough, the saves in the second half and Union defeated their second top 3 0 Dutchmen came out and· · would cGme out victorious by a <1pponenet in two days. The final completely took over the contest. . score of 11-~. <;:o - Captain Steve score. read Union 11, St. Lawrence Accordi11g to MacMullen. ~th~. HQyt noted, \The entire team came ~. Co-captain Steve Hoyt ~a_s as- <lefense. -stepped up pi'g ·~f~e;~ !hrough , in sev.ei-..al- clutch Jound.ed. ·by~t,h.e t:NQ wee,kend , holding a veryexplasi:veCiark$~n. sit~afions.\ · ' games aiuf. ~lt;i<i, '!!:fhis·waS the offense to no goals in the second On Saturday, April17? the Dutch- roost exciting weekend, of lax at A Union player nuJ•w.~ defender last week. men faced the St. Lawrence Saints Union in the last four .years.\ This at Frank Bailey Field. Once again was the first weekend sweep for the Capt~ins told their teammates Union in more than four years. that this was a make or break game. . After an excep,tionaHw~ games, Oniori came out fired up and was the Union Men); LacrQsse team ready to take down another oppo- must remaiP. focused for ~nother nent. The first half was very 'tight, pivotal we.eknd. lfthe Dutchmen with both squads coming thr.ough k~ep up. their exc~llent defense, on both the offensive and defen- whichisnowthenumbertwo\man sive ends. At the half, St. Lawrence down\ defense ln tbe nation, they · ~l~d·the Dutchmen 4-2. However, wiUonce&gain,reignvictoriously. \ .. Unio.n~ame out in the second half BETWEENTHEPIPES: '· h1censed and 'Would not be denied. Nick Balasei&~. J4>n Schiff, and With ll minutes to play St. KurtKimballwereallnamedtothe Lawrence led 8-6, but ,fiom there it '\UCAA Honor RoiL\ Balascio had was all Union. The defense, led by six goals and two assists, while Mike Guild, Nick Goater, and Jor- Schiff had five goals and an assist. dan Thomas, would not brake Kimball had three goals and four down. Freshman Ross Krebal assist during the stretch. Attention: All Economics Juniors ••• 7 If )IOU plan to do an Economics Senior Thesis in the.year 1999-2000, it Is important that you attend the following .. · SENIOR THESIS INFORMATION MEETING Wednesday:t MAY EJ\ 7:00 p~ SS 104

-.-·- I • :i en cess 1eed ay.\ •ave r. If • St. reat ong teed Je.\ rea .me, :gu- :lay. mbt win ~IVe lay- the ovith tree ude 1ed j iate Jon put ch- md 30 nal 1ce as- :nd the . at his for :es, am 1er ten se, tan tey ly. nd the tad ile ist. ~ur ... - ., .... ,j. «rnnt.nririensis • April 22, 1999 • Pa.ge 21 Baseball Splits With Skidmore, FaDs Out of First by Rory Stern Staff Writer The Men~s baseball te.am had yet again another busy week, work- ing to improve their record. The Dutchmen are now 5-14 overall, and are 5-4 in their league. The Dutchmen fell outof first place in the division and are currently awaitirug the latest league statistics. This pastSunday the Dutchmen played against Skidmore and split & doubleheaderat home in Central Park. ln1he fu-st game of the after• noon, .Freshman Seth Burrows started as the pitcher. Burrows went f()ur innings and allowed five runs in a disappointing start for the youngpiteher. Speaking with Bur- rows a.ftet the game, he seemed angry with his perfomiance and hopes t() pitch a·better game. The team lost the game, 7-l, even though Rob Moody came in to save the game. Moody piiched well but was unable to pic:tup the victoryfortheteam. Union .ptlayed a tou,gh game, but could nOitJCome up with any hits after the fourth inning. After a hit which sent a Skidmore player home, the base- runner collided with Union's catcher Eric Kopka. Kopka :stood up to thehit, knocking their ptlayer to the grmmd and almost i11citing a brawl. Skidmon!• s pitch~r had a perfect game from the fourth. .inning on, and was too strong for the Dutchmen. The second game of the: after- noon pr(Jved much better f()r the Dutchmen, as they added a Y.~ii:tory to their record. The team, :I:Jehind Bob I<rickovich,. won the game 5- 4 .. Krickcvich pitched a one:- !Jitter, but gave up seven walks, account- ing for Skidmore's four runs. Krickovich went the distance and pitched a great game for the Dutch- men. He received great run sup- port due to the good hitting ofZak King, Will V erril, and a key hit by Jason Weiner. The team collected ·themselves very quickly after the first loss, and came out to playhard in this second game. Saturday afternoon was no ·dif- ferent from the team's previous two weekends. The team was sched- uled to face rival RPl in a double- header at Central Park. Due to the rain on Friday and · late into Saturday morning,. the .games were moved to RPI. The team was fired up and confident that they would be able to beat their long-time rival, Rensselaer. . Chip Crary1TC Both the Union and Skidmore benches ~tormed the field after an exchange of words. The first gameofthe afternoon was pitched by Ryan Almstead, who managed to go six innings. Almstead gave up six runs in Union's 1-5loss. The Dutchmen played hard and kept up with RPI, only to lose on an error by .the catcher. Shawn Virlder, who hit well during the game, made an error when RPI had the bases loaded turning a potentialdouble play into three runs. The second game of the after~ noon was pitchecl by Senior Craig Kazmierczak. Craig has pitched against RPI for the last three years, and every year he manages to pitch an extremely good game. Kazmierczak was ·confident head- ing into the weekend, and was looking forward to notching a vic- tory against this team. Craig pitched as well as ever, but came up short due to the lack of offense. After the game, Kazmierczak had no comment and was simply dis- traughtby the outcome. The game started out in good spirit as Ryan Almstead lead off the game with a homerun. This kept the team posi- tive, but again wasn 'i enollgh t(l secure the game. Going into the bottom of seventh the gatne was tied 2-2, and Union hadachance to win, but was unable to C()me up with a run. Kazmierczak started out the eight inning, but hi!; arm wasn't strong enough to do 1!!:he damage he haddene all game long. He gave up two consecutive hits and was replaced by Jake Gunschel, who gave up a three-run h-omerun on his first pitch. The Dutchmen also faced'SUNY Oneonta during the week, losing 9-5. Union was outplayedby tile SUNY team, and struggled tclkeep up with them. The game was away at On-eonta and the team struggl:ed t() pull things together. They playeclhard and put their hearts into the game, but that just wasn't enough to get over the top. During the upcoming week the team will face Utica Colle.ge and Hamilton. The Dutchmen will travel to face both teams, a~dwill return to Central Park on the 27to face Williams. UCAA Standings .. (UCAA) (qvt;i.ttll) Team WL.-T PTs W.LrT .. . ,,·, RPI 8-2-0 24 2().3(} Skidmore 5-3-0 15 11-1.2--o Union 5-4-0 15 6-12-Q St. Lawrence 4-6-0 12 '7-1:7:~ ' . ; ' aarkson J-.7-0 9 847 Harrilton 2-8-0 6 5-fZiJ ' ....... Rochester 2-1-0 6 · ts,;oo ... . .

1 •. ' orts Pinney, Jay Pyo, Corey Green- house and Jon Albert, led by cox- swain Will Genrich) continued to muscle the beat along, determined to give the home team a battle to the end. Ru:gby Prepares for · · Up-State Championship by John Carbone Staff Writer After the previous week's tough losses to Hobart College, the rnen 's crew team was looking to bounce back this past weekend at the Skic;lmore Invitational, and bounce back they did. The first event of the day pitted Union's Varsity 8+ against Skidmore's equival~nt. Union jumped off the line with their best start of the seas()n and never lo0oked back. Up by four seats within the first 30 strokes of the race, the powerful crew continued tQ punish their opponents, driving with their legs and laying into the bow of the boat. Skidmore at- All three crews made strong moves at the 1!200 meter mark. Jun- ior Jonathan Albert recalled, \The speed and power really picked up on that move. The boat was set like a rock and the rowing was light and lively. It's too bad it came to an end.\ F<->l'lowing the move, Union seemingly came unglued, at- lowing Skidmore.to open a 'lead and Albany to take back lost water. The crew regained their composure by the l6()0metermark, at which point they began tl1eir sprint. They They began a move of their own by Stephen Flaherty and as their bow reached that of Skidmore's a rowing rarity oc- Staff Writer curred, The Skidmore bowman's The defending state champions oar flew out of its oarlock, e:ffec- have been preparing for their title tively leaving theirboatdead in the • · defense this year by playing only water. Determined to take advan- ' the best competition. After play- tage ofthis opportunity, Carbone · ing a strong game two weeks ago and Sherwood hegan a strong · against the divis-ion one power- push, with Albany nipping at thei~: : house RPI, and tilen getting many stem. The two kept Albany be- j new players value~ble game expe ... hind and as they came into the last • rience one week ago against Si- 20 strokes of the race a paradigm • enna College, the scrummin,g shift occurred. All the· quirks as• : Dutchmen stepped up to play a sociated w.ith first-time rowing dis- ' well practiced men's team, the Al- appearedand the boat flew ahead, bany Knicks. leaving Albany in their wake. , · Union knew that the Knicks Coach Ken l.ey Smith, watching : would be thei,r stiffest competition from· the shore, had this to say of . , ,........ ........... Union's finish: \It was an incred- tern pted to r-~----_,...,\:\\73'7~-------.__'\\\\\':\~~~... ible move. The · boats were close make a move at the 500 meter mark, but. Union cox- swain R•~\~\~<•rnr c o u n t e r e - __ , ~~Qif::A with a strong ¥....- \\ · 20 stroke !Hess. As eight rowers · grunted in uni- son on every stroke, giving their all to the oar, the rose up and surged ahead, leaving Skidmore b~- 1 .,..----:c h ind by a full boat length. T h mark and may have even taken back a ' ~' . and then suddl,'!nly • . we were. ~ boat length ahead. It was J'ike Mike and John finally got together · · : and decided to put . • . the competition '' ''\ . away ... '- .. . 11he fi;.tal rnen's event ·of the ·day as the Novice ~s 8+(De{;.Nov- • ,ice.R~wer: one who . is a first-year cone- rower or who hap. less th~n one year's experi- . ence with the sport). With only two· of rowing to- under their Uu.Jn ...... the novice entered tne · petition with igh hopes. They· · Ed faceon\y.AI- , a crew. that · given t~ell\ a . hing in a pre- · .. ..- .. ~ -·~ .~..,.:;!·<,, .... .-:.r ·-. '\d' . ~~:i',2l~t:1~ --~):/_~( \~~~~,: ·: : ' ' ;\- ~ •'r ~.~', ;:;f.>;~- ,_.:.;>:··~~([;1~:~ ·..,~, • ' • <) ~ ' ' • · :· · ~·stv~· · :~ -~ · '\\ '-'!-.,' ,>' showing astheypu:Shed two more tries in with quick,play, The score stood at27 ·S when Union decided to pick their heads up. Stellar run,. ning by inside andoutside centers Ivan Drago{aka. Gersh) and Mario \Chakakan\ Cruz hrought the ball into the Knicks en(f .. Quick thinkingona penalty play by flyhalfNemoBolin got the ball in the tty zone witbapower run by Pete Casola whQ ripped. through tacklers to place tile ball and get another fivepoints.At halftime the score stoodat 27-10. Union re-evaluat-ed their game plan and settled cl<l-wn in the sec- ond half. They began to win all of ? ::: ~ ,, ' . ' . seat or two. season scrimmage. Wanting to The men's and women's team practices on ·the Mohawk Ottt for revengey Ther..e is no doubt about it: Ruhgy i$.a_f!()'llgh River las/ week. ..~-. b d. d d t h tl · ' crush their-----------------------~--- u•e race eg~n . ea · . . an oug. spar. northern rivals, the Union men . even,. but Union had of the. season, si11ce they_have (John Carbone, Mikey Sherwood, walked through Albany, like Pete gained ahalfalength~s leadbythe .· beenpracticingtogetherforyears Jamie Slocum, Steve Eichfeld, Jeff Flynn past a Hamilton runner, and first500 meters. As freshman Ben . ahd have loads <Of experience H()ffman, Remi Drozd. John Poor proceeded to take seats on the Foster noted,. \Our start was slug~ through many college games, and Rob Hoppenfeld) once again Skidmore boat. Unfortunately, the gishbutwekicked it intogear, slow- . graduate school gatnes, and mens . .- opened up with their own 20 stroke- 2000 meter course was just slightly ing our rating and picking up the side games. too short for tile Union team tor. e- powe · T · t ··t ff. t.h t\ Th press. The chorus of grunts and . · · r. o op I o , e grun mg e Dutchm~n., though, were m()ans rose from the boat's hull as gain the l~d, finishing a close sec- of aU eight rowers seemed to give ready for the challenge and even ond to Skidmore. th t 1 d \ · open water began to separate the us e men a e ge. an old alum, Brian \'Malibu\ Field, two crews. Perhaps the oddest race of the With this being the last race of . played for the opposition as the day featured seniors John Carbone. the· da· y th · d w · 't · · k K · k d As the Jast 400 meters ap- · · ' e wm · as nean s p~a •· . .- me s nee ed some youth on and Michael Sherwood in the d w·h\t · 'bl · h · h ' proached, coxswain Simmons an 1 ecapswerev1st eon.t e t ekside. ca11ed up the stroke rating, leading men's pair. With only a halfhour's lake~ Coxswain WillGenrich com- The Dutchmen came out strong Union into its final sprint. Ex:. practice time in the pair this spring, marrded his crew to persevere and as flanker Derek McCowan made hausted, the crew crossed the fin.- Sherwood and Carbone were lin- rowers Slocum, Drozd, Hoffinan, a solid run from thirty meters out ish line a full 11 seconds ahead of sure ofthe p()ssible outcomes for Kosturko, Pinney,. Cory Allen, to score a quick five points and Skidmore. Note: Hobart beat the race, to say the least. While HansBiack,andFosoormetthechal- .. lift the Union mell's spirits. The Skidmore the previous day by only they may have held delusions of ienge. As Foster said, \We tarnecL . otJtsized Union men made up for eigllt seconds. winning. the event they were more Mother Nature.\ · their youth and ineJ<perience with The next event for the Union focused on keeping from capsiz- Union's half length lead grew . tenacity and speed. men was the J. V. 8+ 's race against ing on the rough water of Saratoga throughout the race as they pun- . The Knicks~ however, came dut both Skidmore and SUNY Albany. Lake. ished Albany. seeking redemption · .. strong, and after severaloutstand- The evenly matched crews slugged The race began and the Union for their past losses.. . ; ing ·defensive plays by Dave it o11t in the first SOOrneters of the pair hung strong with both A visible sprint ill the 'last 50.0 Doser, Drew McWilliams, and Ron race. Anysmallmovemadebyone SkidmoreandAlbany. metersallowedUniollto\blow'em \check out my pretty face\ Within the fi'rst 500 meters of the o t. · ft.h · t ,. e · t II d k ·· crew was immediately countered by u o e wa er as ros er reca e , Rushnec , the Knicks were able race the lead switched back and d. d\ \Th\ d tile other two, as tile boats re- a mg, IS race was a goo rep.. to pound in a try a11d convert the forth between Skidmore and Union t t · f h t mainedrelativelyeventhroughout resen a Ion ° o~.tr c arac er. two point after. With two more an uncountable 11umber of times. W ' t J· t f kh d the first 750 meters. At this point, eve go a o o W()r orsesan quick p.enalties, and converted With su.ch a limited amount of· t d 11 b t '' .. · · Albany faltered and both Union ° ay we were a a ou power. . · k1cks by the Knicks, the score was and Skidmore moved ahead, leav- practice time for the Union pair, Wise WOfods from someone so 13 .. 5. ing Albany half a boat length be- steering proved to be a bit of' a young.. . With fivemiilutesdeft in the half, hind. The Union men (ATidy problem, butthe crew persevered. This Saturday,April24, Union the Knicks were controlling play Martinson, Adam Murphy, David Skidmore epened up a boat defends the Gilman Cup at home and ·pushing the youthful Unioll Po1izzi, George Kosturko, Rob length'sleadatthe600metermark, againstHamilton. fi~petoseeyQU. pac·k around, th.eir experience but Union wcmld not be denied. there. their serums, puslled hard in the rucks and m~-uls, a11d won almost all of the line outs ~hether they put it in or tbe Knicks· did. In general; Unio111Jegan to play as a team. Fighting tluough injury, the scrumming ·Piltchmen got some hard fo11ght yardage with the fast feet of Harvey Shepard and Evan Jahn. Mike Pingpank burst through the Knick's defensive front and t()uched tlte ball in for another five points, tne point after was good a11d the sc()re was at 27- 17. The Knicks and Dutchmen fougbt f<lr field position until a quick run by former Union standout Brian Field gave the Knicks anotller seven points. With the score a1 34-17 the Dutchmen p.icked up the pace. A stolen lineout by· the Dutchmen quickly turned into an eighty meter run by the strong second row Adam Deutsh. With this exllausting run Deutsh fired Union liP even more, and soon Mario Ctuze:xplocledthrough the line to score another Union try. The final SC()fe -wa~; 34·27, yet ~nion was in it until the end, and surely would have won if the game was fulllengtlt. • ' ! .

ed c- ,. ·. ,:,:' y y t t ~ '' :. .. '·· . ·'. Q. &L'··JJ.·; . h:JU:~J4r~:a.u.· . (14-6/ . . 2~0 l.JCAA) APRIL . . . 6 HARTWICK(2) Won 54/Won 3--2 8 at Williams (2) . Lost 3;.2/ Lost Z.l 10 HAMILTON (2) Won 7-21 Won 6- 13 MlDDLEBURY(2) Won4-3/8-() 15 'ALBANY (2) . Won 2-<>JLost 5.;2 . 17 at Utica (2) PPJ).Rain: 20 at RPI (2) 3PM 22 NEW.PALTZ(2) 3PM 24 at Skidmore (2) lPM 27 ~NEONTA(2) 3PM 29 RUSSELLSAGE(2) · 3PM !\fAY 1 ROCHESTER (2) lPM Men's Lax .• (3~(j/2-2 UCAA) ·y· ;· ··.···.·.·' .. •.... . ·. · · · . . e .... ·g: ···\\ ··IJ.: .• , ·I· .~.S···· · · ·\· .. ' . ' :' ·. ,, ... ' ,. ' .; •. . . . . . (3-4) APRIL 5 SKII:M)RE Lost7-0 Won 54 Lost 5-2 9 at Clarkson 10 atSt~ 13 at~ Wort 7..{) 17 lCM 01a111>btships ilion Placed Sixth 18 at fbbart out of 8 team; 20 at Oneonta 3PM 22 i:ltRPI 3PM 24 VASSF.R lPM Men's and (Men 0-1/Women 0-1) Lost' 10-3 APRIL 3 at Hmilt.on ; ;;;)~'~};.f::{':,~~>·;· ' . ;~· • 10 at Wiil.iatis (M} Lost 103-70 (w,104-29 12PM Bothl\blard Fnmln:l Footh ,2ErM ·4l?M .. ' . . . -~ ' .. ·. '. . . z . . · .. -~iJt:X~~~. . .. 6 . MIDDLEBURY 9 ·· ... ·. ·. iP1:·::-·•· ·· · L ··io ='skillinore 1{ AtaANv .. 16 CLAiU<sON ,,._ -. -· - 1i · S'f. .. ~~\YRENCE ··~~. at.YtiCa .. :; . . 22 oENl§sF:o. · i:MA'Y ~ ~ · ::· i·· .• . ' .. f HAMILTON 4 · : WILLiAMs . ,... ; . Won20-2 Lost9-5 Lost20-7 Lost 10-8 Lost 7-4 Won 11-8 Won ll-8 4PM 4PM 2PM 4PM APRIL 3 16 OCM!vb;t at RPI 17 OCM :tvh:t at RPI 24 at RPI Invitational MAY State M;et at Rochester Crew atRPI ·t 0 PRESIDENT'S CUP RACE/ with Hobart and William Smith 18 at Skidmore 24 · Gliman Plate & Cup Race at Hamilton MAY . ' < •• Won aU four .. .:.,.,. ... ol' ·Lost in all five races . 9AM 12PM 1 NYS Championship i:n Rome, NY 8 Women's NCAA Championshi·p •••••• • •••••••••••••• I I '······ • •• ·o yo·a· s.h~o·illd fl;ave.,beea fired by the L . a· ·k·c' ··e··r· ·s? . · .. .' . . ·'



·>· .. ·~. -;\ . -·' :'( ~· ~'- ---p.··, ''II, ·. /. ·~ -·.· ,,, -~(1,;~.·. -'·· -· ... ... \' ·. -.;: ~ .-··_, ~: ;::;~.- ... ~- .:-~~}d' -~ ..- ~ \' ,. •. <l)j, ..... ' ~· Sport~,. Starts ,.o:n ~age . '-.!!>< •-., ·. •,·, ·./.· ·. ·:·' · · ·r 0:·.:.; · . .,..., I ~·.·· •• ~ .> :'• ,;;•, ~- - \':'•'' (. . .,,· .. ~.:

'~Never put off till tomorrow that which you can do today. \ -Benjamin. Franklin Volum~ CXXII. Numb~rXX The Student Newspaper ofT/ilion College Siace 1877 - -' April 29. 1999 - Fashion Show Lights Up Campus 0 . ·- - pinions: NewJers·ey Fights Ba-ck! ?~' by Jessica Zuehlke News Editor The rhythmic rap .sounds of Will ' Stnith and Monica pumped through the pews of Old Chapel thispa$tSaturdaynight as student .-. • leaders front around campus took · to the catwalk. Models wore out- fits that ranged from the casual, Page 6 comfortable styles of Old Navy and .___...._...._,....__........._..--.,........__.__........,· ·' American Eagle, to the elegance r-~---'-.,-'-~-~~~~---'\... · and c•lass of tuxedos from World News: Colo-rado S-hooting Questions Gun Control Page 10 News: Fashion Show Photo Spread Page 12 Sports: · Christopher's. and dresses de- , signed by Vera Wang. The nearly sold-out event, the enthusiasm of all those involved, · and the large check presented to · the Make-A~Wish Foundation of _ • Northeast New York all pr-ovided • the ingredients for a successful • f1 ight of glitz. It was the genius and effort con- . tributed by the eight students who • all served on the Executive Com- . mittee that m;ganized the third an- . hllal Fashion Show of Support. ·, These elected individt.!als along · with the 42 models ~pent numer- ous hours collaborating ideas and · rehearsing their moves. The g!\Ol1P put in \a lot of time · practicing, especially within the rast week,\ commented Mark McKee, Executive Committee membeL \We were here until mid- night [on Friday before the show] and showed upat9 AM this mom- , ing to get things started. Need- less to say, it's a big commitment.\ What does it take to have the pr>ivilege of watking down the lighted runway? Models for the big event are nominated and cho- sen by the Executive Committee. The onlycriteria is that you have some-sort of involvement within the college. A leadership role, a membership to an active club, or the Cf!ptain of a Varsity teams; these are all campus jobs that qualify potential modf;ls. The Committee tries to get well- known individuals that represent every aspect efcampus life. \'We ory C Seniors Frunk DeLorenzo & Sloane Silver deliver opening remurk.s at the Fashion Show ofSupporl The ew!nl raised $4,856 fur churity.- hope to be as diverse as we can be,\ McKee stated. Where do all the clothes come from? According to McKee, a va- riety of stores donate them pro- vided they will be returned the fol- lowing day. The students who wear the clothes sign a contract promising them they will return their outfits. \We tell retailers that this is <J sold-out event with a great cause. It also gives the store free advertiscmGnt.,. Students make numerous trips to the mall in order to try on the out- fits put together by the stores. Outfits sent from out of town arc fitted as best they can be to the models. On the day of th~: show. loc;,tl salons donate updues and makeup advicctothc women. ThisadJsto , the professional feeling and glam- our of the siHJw. On the night of the sho\\, the bustk before tht· lights JimnH.:J was fabulous. L i s a B I au s tt.: i n a n J S h ~ rr ) Moskowit1, both ~:lass of ·oo. thought the L'Vent was guing ro lw amazing \Weare WI) e.xcitt_:d,Jhe last two years were great, <ind [rlll' evcntl is for a great cause.\' McKee corlmlcntcd that he\\ a-> \thrilled and hopes the event goes well.\ The exciting bustle ofthe audi- ence quieted as the house lights dimmed, eighteen minutes after the Continued on page 5 All of the Greek Week Results Kathy Kelly Speaks Against Sanctions in Iraq Page 20 Campus News- 3 _ Opinions- 6 Features- 8 WorldNews-10 Technology-14 A&E-16 Sports -18 .our E-mail by Lee Stevens Contributing Writer On Monday, April 26 Kathy · K-e1Iy, the founder of.f-'uiccs· in· the Wifderness, slopped at Union Col- lege ort her way back for Iraq be- fore heading to Washi:ngton, DC. In this brief interval in her busy schedule she found time to give an exhilarating lecture in the Olin Center. Her organization Voices in the Wilderness is a cal)lpaign to · end the UN and United States sanctions against the people Iraq. Ms. Kelly got involved after working in a peace encampment on the lraq-Saudi b01:der during the Gulf War, whi.ch consisted of sev- enty-two people fTom eighteen dif- ferent countries. Once the camp was evacuated due to the war, Kathy stayed in the region for the next six months to help coordinate medical relief con- voys and study teams. After this, Kelly went on to establish Voices in the Wilderness. . Kathy Kelly devotes most ofhet ...__.....__......,.;;,....;,;_..,......;_ ... ·;.;;;;---·- .... - ·..;;.;· .....-. time to this noble cause, recalling many fascinating but tragic stories ofher time spent in Iraq helping wiihthe relief effort. In 1998, she spent a year in federal prison for planting com on a nuc1ear missile S 'I]O s\ltC neo.,.it\ tJ.. .. .,.,ts r .. o~ t.l--.~ . , 1J \\f'\'\\' UII\\U.'- U Ill lll\,.. United States govemment of mil- lion dollar fines and 12 years in prison, Kelly continues to help the Iraqi relief cause. Since it is illegal to send anything of value to Iraq, Kelly acts as a courier, bringing supplies into Iraq while risking ar- rest. The United States is not allow- ing anyihing to enier lraq besides medicine and food in exchange for oil. These heavy sanctions have caused the economy to collapse, which affects the .elderly, poor, and u \' Sloan Milier/TC On Monday night, Kathy Kelly lectured about the horror in Iraq . children the most. As of December 1995, more than one million Iraqis have died; 567,000 ofthem were children who died as a direct consequence ofthe econom i.e sanctions. Kelly, like many others, sees no reason for these sanctions which have been historically proven to fail. Th~: United States tried this approach with Castro's govcmment in C'ubn in the 1960's. By crushing Iraq's economy. the United States is hurting the ira4i people more than the government itself The individuals have little .er no say in the Iraqi government and have nothing to do with the relations between Iraq and the · United States. Sanctions have caused average public sector wages to fall to less than five dollars a month, while hyper-inflation has caused food · prices to rise astronomically The Iraqi dinar, worth three dollars prior · to sanctions, has now fallen to .000625 dollars. During her lecture, Kelly showed Continu£-d on page 4

:o . -:: ~.) •.: ._: .. - \Ne-ve1· put off tilt tomorrow that which you can do today.\ -Beaiamin Franklin VolumeCXXll,NumberXX , · .The StudentNev.rspaper o.f()nim1 College Since.J877 · -'. ·.· · · ·. · :·. . · Aprii-29~ .J.,99Jl<,·:: ' ,., \ ' . .. This Week Opinions: New Jersey Fights Back! Page 6 World News: Colorado Shooting Questions Gun Control Page 10 News: Fashion Show Photo Spread Page 12 Sports: All of the Greek Week Results Page 20 Inside Campus News - 3 · Opinions- 6 Features- 8 WorldNews-10 Technology- 14 A & E-16 Sports-18 .Our E-mail concordy@ vu. union. edu ~------------~--------~ Fashion Show Lights Up Campus by Jessica Zuehlke News Editor The rhythmic rap sounds of\Vill Smith and Monica pmnped through the pews of Old Chape I this past Saturday night as st11dent leaders from around campus t()0k to the catwalk. Models wore out- fits that ranged from the casual, comfortable styles of Old Navy and American Eagle, to the elegance and class of tuxedos from Christopher's and dresses de- signedby Vera Wang. The nearly sold-out event~ the enthusiasm of all those involved, and the large check presented to the Make-A-Wish Foundation of Northeast New York all provided the ingredients for a successful night of glitz. H was the genius and effort <:on- tributed by the eight students wllo all served on the Executive Com- mittee that organized the third an- nu.al Fashion Show of Support. These elected individuals along with the 42 models spent numer- ous hours collaborating ideas and rehearsing their moves. The group put in \a lot oftime practicing, especially within the rast week,\ commented rvtark McKee, Executive Committee member. \We were here unti I mi<l- night [on Friday before the shovv] and showed up at 9 AM this m<>rn- ing to get things started. Nee<l- less to say, it's a big commitment.\ What does it take to have the privileg.e of walking down the lighted runway? Models for the big event are nominated and cho- sen by the Executive Committee. The only criteria is that you have some-sort of involvement within the college. A leadership role, a membership to aH active dub, or the captain of a Varsity teams; these are all campus jobs that qualify potential models. The Committee tries to get well- known individuals that represent every aspect of campus life. \We Cory Silken/TC Seniors Frank DeLorenzo & Sloane Silver deliv~r opening remarks at the Fashion Show ofSupport. The event raised S4.856 for charity hope to be as diverse as we can be,\ McKee stated. Where do all the clothes come from? According tCJ McKee, a va- riety of stores donate them pro- vided they will be returned the fol- lowing day. The students who wear the clothes sign a contract promising them tlley will return their outfits. \We tell retailers that this is a sokl-mJt e~~nt 1\ith a gn:at cause. It also gives the store free advertisement.\ Students make numerous trips to the mall in orderto try on the out- fits put together by the stores. Outfits sent from ()Ut of town are fitted as best they can be to the models. On the day of the show, local salons donate updues and makeup advice to the worne11. This adds to the professional fee ling and glam- our oftht.! show. On the night of the sho\\, the bustle before the l1gh ts dimmed \\as fabulous. Lisa Blaustein an<.! Sherr) Moskowitl, both clas~ of ·oo. thought the even! ,,.,b go111~ lo be amazing. \We are vel} e.xciled, I he last two years wen: great. anJ !the event J is for a great cause:· McKee commented that he \\as \thrilled and hopes tl1e nent goes well.\ The exciting bust! e of the audi- ence quieted as the house lights dimmed, eighteen minutes after the Continued 011 page 5 Kathy Kelly Speaks Against Sanctions in Iraq by Lee Stevens Contributing Writer On Monday, April 26 Kathy Kelly, the founder of Voices intlw W;/derness, stopped at Union Col- lege on her way back for Iraq be- fore heading to Washington, DC. r n this brief interval in her busy schedule she found time to give an exhilarating lecture in the Olin Center. Her organization Voices in many fascinating but tragic stories of her time spent in Iraq helping with the relief effort. In 1998, she spent a year in federal prison for planting com on a nuclear missile silo site. Despite threats from the United States government of mil- lion dollar fines and 12 years in prison, Kelly continues to help the Iraqi relief cause. Since it is illegal the Wilderness is a CaiJipaign to .,· ;,.•?•·<, .. , .. ~, end the UN and United States sanctions against the people of Iraq. Ms. Kelly got involved after wo-rking inapeaceencampmenton . · · the Iraq-Saudi border during the GulfWar, which consisted ofsev· ·. .. wty-two people from eighteen di f. :. ' · .· · · ferent countries. Once the camp was evacuated due to the war, Kathy stayed in tne region for the next six months to help coordinate medical relief con· v<>ys and study teams. After this, to send anything of value to Iraq, Kelly acts as a courier, bringing supplies into Iraq while risking ar- rest. The United States is not allow- ing anything to enter Iraq besides medicine and food in exchange for oil. These heavy sanctions have caused the economy to collapse, which affects tile elderly, poor, and children the most. As ofDecember 1995, more than one million Iraqis have died; 567,000 ofthem were children who died as a direct co11sequence of the economic sanctions. Kelly, like many otht?rs, sees no reason for these sanctions which have been historically proven to fail. The United States tried this approach with Castro's govemment in Cuba in the 1960's. By crushing Iraq's eco11omy. the United Stutes is hurting the Iraqi people more than the government itself. The individuals have little or no say in the Iraqi government and have nothing to do with the · relations between Iraq and the United States. Sanctions have caused average public sector wages to fall to less than five dollars a mo11th. while hyper-inflation has caused food prices to rise astronomically. The Iraqi dinar, worth three dollars prior to sanctions, has aow fallen to _ ....... .......,SI-o-an_M;..;.i\\'ll ... eriWii/T;..;;.C.:-.~ .0006 25 dollars. · ICelly went on to establish Voices in the Wilderness. Kathy Kelly devotes most of her time to this noble cause, recalling On Monday night, Kathy Kelly lectured about tile horror in Iraq. During her lecture, Kelly showed Continued 011 p11ge 4

Campus Life Page 2 • April29, 1999 • <ltcrncorai.ensis Security Incident Report Sunday,Aprill8,1999: Criminal Mischief Criminal Mischief Monday, April19,J999,: Motor VehiCle Accident Larceny Tuesday, April20, 1999: Criminal Mischief Criminal Mischief Criminal Mischief Criminal Mischief Life Safety Violation Wednesday,April21, 1999: Immobilized Vehicle Motor Vehicle Accident Larceny Criminal Mischief Trespass Thursday,April22, 19~'>: Fireworks Violation Life Safety Violation Fire Unauthorized Entry Unauthorized Entry Friday, April23, 1999: Larceny Immobilized Vehice Saturday, April24, 1999: Criminal Mischief Trespass Criminal Mischief Criminal Mischief Trespass 2:20pm West,College. Room door damaged. 2:35pm West College. Water left running in sink overflowing onto floor. 7:02am South Lane. Vehicle struck pole. No injuries. 3:55pm S&E. Theft of digital camem from locked room. 1 : 14am South College. Window to entrance door shattered. 2:18am Phi Sigma Kappa. Entrance door glass shattered. 2:31am Sigma Chi. Window panes smashedout. 2:25pm Fox House. Courtesy phone damaged. 11 :30pm Coffee House. Life Safety violation issued for open flame. (Use ofcanles) 1 0:45am Immobilized vehicle dueto outstanding violations 11 :24am Achilles Lot. Property Damage reported. 11 :45am S&E. Missing currency from locked office. 1 :SOpm Sigma Chi. Broken window. 4:40pm Library and Huntley Lanes. Food Vendors handing out fliers 12:51 am. Flag Pole area. Firew.otks being shot off. Suspects identified. Conduct Charges filed. 1 :09am McKean House. Room smoke detector damaged causing a ftre alarm. 1:17am SDT. Minor ftre in trash can. Extinguished by residents. No damage or injuries. 1:37pm Smith House. Vendor propping doors. Advised of inappropriate actions. 2:43pm Fin. Student trying to gain entry thru window. Stopped and identified. Conduct Charges filed. 1 0:57am Library. Missing laptop computer from office. 2:25pm Library Lane. Student vehicle immobilized due to outstanding violations. 10:53 am North Terrace Lane. Tree limbs vandalized. 9:01pm Memorial Chapel. Non student advised of private property status. 8:50pm Fox House. Entrance window cracked. 1 0:25pm Sigma Chi. Entrance door vandalized. 11 :35pm Huntley Lane area. Non students advised of private property status. Strategies for survival if confronted with assault: * Non-resistance to prevent physical violence * Negotiate * Stall for time * Distracting or diverting the assailant, then fleeing * Verbal assertiveness * Screaming, using a whistle or shrieli. alarm to attract attention or help * Physical resistance- techniques which may be used as a last ditch effort to escape an attacker. Announcements \Antigen Presenting Cells ~nd Immune ModulatiBn\ SeminarhyDr. Edmund Gosselin Presented by the Dept. ofBiologic;ll Sciences and the Biology Ciub Tuesday,April27, 12:30 PM Bailry Hall; Room 207 Refresbmen.ts 'provided at 12:.15 PM Announcing· the Ninth Anuual Charl'es P. Steinmetz. Symp_osium May 7, 1999 Presentations start Friday, May 7 at 9 AM Union College Spring Scramble GolfTourna.ment Sunday, May 30 Details and Tee Times to be announ£ed If y()ur organization is interested in sponsoring the event, c~ntact Erik Lukach at raymonde@union.edu. Proceeds will b.enefit the Cocoa House. \Th.e Origin of Satan\ Intriguing Lecture by Elaine Pagels. Thursday, April29, 7:3() PM N o1t Memorial Dance Competition All Welcome: May 15 Sign up in CC Taday and Tomorrow Do you want to be involved on cam-pus? Student Activities loelldng for Pr()gram Assistants Pick up Applications in CC Room 408 Due Friday, may 7 by 4 PM \High Art\ Film Wednesday,May 5 at 6:30PM in SSOlo Reception a11d Discussioll to follow with Alum11us Michael Rohan Robert Avon Smith Summer Research Fellowship ill Biu-Medical Engineering at Union College. The fellowship is sponsored by RobeTt Avon Smith, Class ~ . of 1951. It is awarded to students in tl1e sciences or engi- neering JtJho participate in a summer research program in bio-medical engineering under the guidance of UnifJn Collttge faculty. The awatd will be matle available to a stu~ent selectttd tm the basis of ability to conduct independent research in bio- medical engineering and commitm~nt to the summer research program. Students interested should contact ProksstJr J. Richard Shanebrook in the Depar.tment of Mechanical Engineering. An Ad Hoc Committe Formed to Consider Tenurability ofSusan Lehrman, Assistant Professor of the GMI Anymemberofthe£ampus community who wishes to offer written or oral testimony co11cerning Assistant Professor Lehrman's teaching, scholarship or college service should contact Professor Hilary Tann .at x6566, tanDh@union.edu. Reapp<Jintment Review of Professor Hyungji Park · Faculty, students and administrators familiar with Professor Park's teaching, .schola:ry activity, and/e>r college servi,ce are welcome to submit comments to Professor Bonney MacDonald; Chair of the English D,ep~rmeot at macdonab@union.edu ( m• trt ell dr: ffil w~: ch co in1 of be Ja• D< wi wl an n D< int sh m< th• ca: th~ ill( otl fil1 th~ ch I tio ·' ., ler pa: na1 pe: tio ith an arr ha J no ex1

.I ' I ·' ., I · Campus News (!J:llltcorbi.eushs• Apri129, 1999 • Page 3 Senior ·Gift Announced Greek· Week Kicks Off on tbe Turf by Clark Jones Contributing Writer . ... - Tuesday night at tbe Nott Me- morial, Jon Zandman, the sen\ior trustee, and members of the senior class gift committee unveiled a drawing ofthe senior class gift. :(n maintaining past traditions, tbegift was revealed at the senior wine and cheese celebration.- It was an elegant evening of· cocktaUs and.socializing, cuhninat• ing in the unveiling ofthe drawing ofa captivating gazebo which w.ill be strategically placed in Jacksen's Garden. The gazebo., according to Ed Dombrowski of Alumni Relations, will be in \a prominent location where the Olin Center, the libta1y, and other buildings wHI be visible'•. The manifestation of the gift, Dombrowski asserted in a recent interview, \will kickoffan aggres- sive campaign to raise approxi- mately $1 o,ooo~\ The intent ofthe campaign is for the seniors to rally around this cause, generate excitement, and then have the seniors contribute money towards the cause. However, there are numerous other avenues where money will filter in. Parents,. and members of the class of 1998 \are setting up challenges, based on participa- tion,\ Drumbrowski stated. Chal- lenges are a method by which the parents or alumni will agree to do- nate a certain amount of moneyd~­ pending Oil: the ~11nior's participa- . ·' '.. , .. ;, tion in the donations. These challenge grants are lirtt- itless, and could be a grant where. an alumni agrees to pay, for ex., ample, $1,000, when the seniors have raised the equivalent.· Dombrowski adamantly stated, nonetheless, that the committee expects the m!Uority ofthe money / / . . - . to be raised by tile seniors. The other avenues that the committee . is traveling down are money-rais- by Lisa Carbone Staff Writer will happen with the sororities. This year, more events have been planned for women in hopes to. get a more concentrated turnout. held on Sunday afternoon. There is a slight change of pace on Friday with a tug of war compe- tition on West Beach in the after- noon directly followed by BattJe,of the Bands in Jackson's Gardens. This will take place from 4 PM to 7 PM. Musical talents from the cam- pus will compete in the gardens. ing activities. Although fall and winter terms Visible in the campus center are may have seemed endless, spring numerous. ducks, which· are promot• · tenn has finally arrived. Notonly ing the Adopt-a-Duck race on May · does the season bring tolerable 8 ofparent' s weekend, in the stream . . weather to Schenectady, people to behind the campus center. WestBeachandFREDbacktolife, Wednesday evening is the ac- tual kickoff at Chet's and in Jackson's Gar<lens. Starting at 6:30PM there will be free food and live music foUowed When an individual adopts a . • but also many tradi- The winner will be duck, their money goes towards the · tional activities to awarded a time slot to senior gift. The committee hopes . Union's campus. l·nPrtr•rm on Springfest that the Union students will ac- One of the biggest weekend. tively participate, if not for the race, traditions, Greek Week, The most famous than for the spirit of the senior class. · wiH be taking place this. Greek Week events will KeithandSusanMeier,ntembers ··week The events begin b·e held on Saturday of the class of 1994, will also l,)e · on Monday, April 26 and Sunday. speaking; to seniors this week, at- and g.o through 'Sun- Saturday is UCARE tempting to generate a positive te- day, May 2. day. Children from the sponse from the seniors. They will • · 1his year's activities area flock to Achilles be speaking .ab()\tt their positive include a wide range rink to participate in the Unionexperiences~ and giving back • sporting events and various games and to Union. • competitions in hopes . contests put on by the Ail of this is part of the aggres• · of uniting everyone •On Greek organizaticms on sive .Campaign for contributions · campus, especially campus. from the senior class in hopes that · • Greeks. There will also be the seniors will realize what their Panhellenic Council . food and a BBQ for f:~'?!1';\0'<'~'-'\\'\ m0ney not only does, but what it symbolizes. The gazebo will be a symbol of their gratitude to Union for their four years on this beautiful cam- pus, and a place to visit on their retl.lms to Union. Moreover, it will add to the beauty ofth.e school, and enhance the comf()rtable atmo• sphere forcurrentand future mem- · hers of the student body and fac- ulty. So far, the senior reaction has been a positive o11e, and the stu- · dent body with much gratitude takes the gazebo. ~pphomore Alex Hunt stated, \The gazebo will be a wonderful ad- dition to ·the garden. Thank you, seniors, for the remarkable gift.\ The student h()dy thanks the seniors, and wishes them the best of luck in your future endeavors. The gaZebo will serve as a remem- · brance ofthis great class! · and lnterFraternity \\'\';·~_...-- .. ---\ii\'Jv~ ... who attend the · Council have put a · event. This event re- . great deal of time and fleets the immense effort into planning this ~fif¥ii'#\*'~~~\\~\\ Greek involvement ·in year's events. They are the community. optimistic to see an in- Following this all- crease in participation day affair will be the and enthusiasm. Greek formal heldatthe ~:- ·~a reek Weekhas not Holiday Inn. \Last always been an over- 1..-----------------------~_;j· ·year, the formal was a whelming success, but Sloan MillerJTC huge success, and we Leeor Strohm of Chi Psi hits a double in the Greek we are trying to make it hope it will remain a stronger, becauseGreek Week softball game against Sigma Phi. continued success,\ life is so huge at Union,\ com- by a keg roll/ keg toss in the gar- added O'Keefe. mented Meghan OKeefe, Presi- dens. Wednesday nighHhere will With increased support and par- dent ofPanhel. . , be a congregate at Phi-Delta, fol- ticipation, Greek Week promises to Monday, Tuesday and Iowedbyafull-campus,coedcap- beagoodtimeforeveryone. Wednesday afternoons are turethetlagontheturf. Duetot11eamountofGreeklifeat packed with scheduled events that \Capture the flag is a new event, Union and a slightly altered sched- include volleyball, softball, ulti- but it is designed to bring frater- ule than in the past, this year is ex- mate frisbee, and kickball. These nitiesand sororities together with pected to be a memorable one. athletic events are not coed, be- athletics,\ commentedamember T-shirtsand cups sponsoring the cause they tend to get really com- ofPanhellenic Council. events will also be available for a petitive. Fraternities will compete Sporting events continue on student low rate of 10 dollars. Greek with other fraternities and the same Thursday, but the finals are to be Week promises to be a lot of fun. World Famous Quartet Finishes Series at Union With a Standing Ovation by Shaun Montana Staff Writer Tile music of Ludwig von Beethoven returned to Union this past Friday when the Borromeo String Quartet played their second All-Beethoven Program in Memo- . rial Chapel. The Quartet has al- ready performed at Union three times this year, most recently in early March. This program was the second part in asix-part series which will cover the Complete Beethoven String Quartets. The remaining four parts will be part of the 1999•2000 Schenectady Mu- seum-Union College Concert Se- ries. Beginning with the Quartet in go to the bathroom. The intemlis- G Major, Op. 1 S, No. 2, Compli- sion lasted about twenty minutes, ments, they walked onto the stage and as soo.n as the lights began to accompanied by thunderous ap- dim, the noise level quickly went plause from the audience. This from a l()ud roar to silence. The con- was repeated each time they fin- certthenresurned with the final quar- ished one piece and started an- tet, Quartet No. 15 in A min<Jr, Op. other. 132. This piece was longer than the With a moment's pause to get others, but was met with the same situated, the four musicians be- attentive listening throughout. gan the fast-tempoed opening. Following a high-tempo and fast- This first quartet was alluring and paced ending, the Quartet left the very relaxing, seeming to take the stage only after much loud applause audience into a dreamlike state. and congratulations from the .audi- Their performance was flawless e11ce. Many people in attendance and well-received. After a short believed this was one of the finest Consisting of violinists Nicho- las Kitchen and Ruggero Allifranchini, cellist Yeesun Kim, --:--------------------------------t and violist Hsin- Yun Huang, the Do you want to be Quartetplayedtoanear-capacity SJoaJi Miller/TC The plan for the Senior Gift was unveiled on Tuesday night. break of about three minutes, they returned to the stage to perform the second quartet of the evening, the Quartet in E-flat Major? Op. 74, Harp. Possessing the same alluring quality as the first quartet, this piece ended in an intermixed se- ries ofexciting, high tempo music and quieter, slow-tempo music, much to the audience's delight. The Quartet left the stage to loud applause and more than a few au- dience members offering them a standing ovation. perfonnances ofthe year. Very fit- ting, as this show was actually the last for the 1998-99 Concert Series. The program, however, did contain the schedule for next year's series. It begins with world-renowned pianist Boris Berezovsky, who played at Union earlier this year as well, on Wednesday, September22 at8PM. · crowd, almost entirely faculty and published? localcitizensaswellasafewUnion students. The best way to de- Come write for the scribe the Quartet, according to Richard Buell ofthe Boston Globe, Concordiensis is \simpty the best there is on the d · planet; every appearance they Meeting to ay at 6PM makeisanevent...theontyreattrea- 1 • n Re·. a· mer 3 . 03 . . sure, it;s been said, is spuituat trea- sure;· and this was it. At this point then~ was a .brief intermission to allow audience members a chance to stretch or These c()ncerts, made possible in part by a grant from the New York State Council on the Arts and the Schenectady County lnitiati\ve Pro- gram, are tree to all Union students, and tickets are available in the Cen- tral Schedltling Office on the fourth floor ofthe College Center.

Page 4 • April 29, 1999 • <frnnttrt.hbnsis S:chaffer Library: Bookstore for tb:e Day byShaun Montana Staff Writer Most people picture libraries as place:i irom whichtohorrow books, or to lo()k up things in journals or refere.Jlce books. But most people woul(Jn\t expect a library to be a place that sells books as well Sur- pris i11g ly, it does happen, as was the case lEtst Friday, when Union's own Schaffer Library held Cl pt~blic book sale in the library atrium. which the library has purchased new editions, and in some cases, books tllat are weeded out due to poor physical condition. Many times when a .gift [of books] is made to the libFary, it contains copies of books we al- ready have. For this reason, we compare the copies to what we The book sale lo()ked to be very successful, even though Krupczak did not have a total~ for the day's sales. But there were an awful lot of students and profes· sors here when we started th,is m:orning, looking to get serne good books. With a smile on her face, Kmpczak indicated that was Carts full ofbooks were arranged in rows behind the ref- erence desk With numercus old text- books;. e~pecially on different areas chemistry and me- chanical engineer- ing, ,t<J reference books and paper- backs Viith titles Rebeccll Walsb/TC Students and faculty look over the selection of books for sale at the library. rangi11g. from A -------.------..-----------------------..---- Short History of Christianity to Disco.11er ing Your Erogenous Zones, oiJe could argue there were books available for everyone and anyone. The piices, regardless of size, were orte dollar for hardcover books, a..nd fifty cents for paper- backs. Maribeth Krupczak, the Col- lection.s Development Librarian, said that book sales like this usu- ally ge11erate an average of two hun- dred dollars or so for the library, and alhh.e money isput into a spe- cial fullod for th.e purchasing of new books a11d collections. But vrl!y would a library sell books in the first place'? It isafund- raisingevent, Krupczak related, but mostly be=cat1se we are all book-lov- ers at lteat1 and we hate to throw any books away. The books are mostly <lX:.tra copies the library bas acquire<!; Dld editions of books of have in tbe collection, and which- ever is in better shape is the one we put on the shelf. The ()ther copy is put into storage and even- tually ends up in a book sale. Prior t() the construction oil the library la~t year, book sales wet:e held about once a month. How- ever, during the construction~ the library was notaccepting any gifts of books, due to lack of space. As a result, there was also no book sales dur1ng the construction. With the construction complete, this is the first book sale held in the new library. When asked if another would be held before the end of the term, Krupczak said, \Well see; it really depends on if we get anymore gifts with interest- ing things. The next one will probably be in the fall, and it will be worthwhile to hold maybe four or five next year.\ the nicest part of l10iding these sales. A book collector herself, she said, \Its really 11ice to when. you see students who return again and again, and you know they are starting their own collec- tions. We also get a lot ofboak dealers from the local comm unit)', and local book collectors hoping .t0 add to their collections.\ There were still about five carts of books, mostly textbooks and some old reference books, still available around 4PM, abouthalf an hour before the sale ended. Many ofthe older engineering text- books, and an old Britann.ica, were among the many books that had been bought by the end ofthe day. If you missed the sale, keep your eyes open in case there is one before the end of the term, or you'll have to wait patiently for the fall. . Campus News Kelly Spea!ks of Injustice in Iraq ... ,continued from page 1 horrible pictureso:fthechildren dy- ii!g as a direct result of tit~ lJnited States government Her h<>rror sto- ries ofthedeathsoftheyoung help- less Iraqi children andher slides of gruesome photos of kaq~s inad· , · equate medical care and nutrition left the auditorium in silence. Kelly gave an amazing, speech on a cause we might not llearaoout otherwise, due to the lack of main stream media coverage. One of Kelly'srnain points. was that in or- .. der to lift sanctions .off Iraq;. more ·.people need to learn .of the injus- tice going.o11 within this poor coun- , try. This can be done by allowing the media to have more coverage . on the appalling sancticns and • ·gruesome cau~alities in lr<)q. The media tend to portray the fact that Sadam Hussein is the only \baa guy\ who ·is only out for .him- self. They report of the awful . things happening to the Iraqi's .C\5 a resultofHussein. This is not the case. According to Kelly, the United States is just as responsible for the terrible situations in Iraq. Political Science professor, Gilman also mentioned that the campus tends not to pay much at- tenti<:>n to foreign ·events. Un- awareness leads to inaction. Kelly will continue to work against these sanctions. To !'earn more about this issue, visit the Voices in the Wilderne~s web site at www.nonv iolence. org/vitw /. Student Forum Elections A guide to the pos,itions available . by B~th Wierzbieriiec vtdual must be extremely patient Contributing Writer and willing to _deal with theburea~­ cracy that exists in the academic Election time is just around the , . comer. Many people may have al- ready decided that they are going to run for election. Howev.er does · everyone know what the .respon- sibilitiesare if they are elected?To give a little insight this .article will briefly explain each of 1he officers' responsibilities. If you nave any questions please feel free to con- tact the current representative in ·that position. Student Forum President- The , President must have a flexible schedule and be willing te> make sacrifices to get things done for the forum as a whole. Alsc the presi- . dent is responsible for chairing the . weekly Student Forummeeting and remaining neutral as the mediator for discussions. The President acts as the liaison between the ad- ministration and the Student Fo- rum and the faculty and the stu- . dent forum. This position requires that the officer is \in t<>uch\ with the constituents that they repre- sent. Also the individual must be dedicated to working togetller with 23 individuals to reach a common areas of the college. Vice-Presi<lentofCampus Life- The Vice-President ofCampus Life is the. chair ofthe social commit- tee. fhis individual is in charge of the planning <>f weekly event on campus an<J acts as the treasurer for the social committee budget of close to $30,000.00. This individual is also involved in the activities of the concert committee. Vice-President of Multicultural Affairs-The Vice-President of Multicultural Affairs is responsible for acting as the voice of multiculturaljsm on campus. This includes meeting with the various multi-cultural organizations on campus and attends the Multicultural Advisory Group meetings. This individual is a mem- berofthe planning committee for the dialogues that occur in the spring of each year. -------------------.--------------------1 goaL New Rape Drug Threatens Campus vice-PresidentorAcmillistra- Student Trustee- The Student Truste.es are ttle liaisons between the Board of Trustees and the stu- dents. It is the responsibility of the Student Trustees to keep the voice and concerns of the students present at the Trustee Meetings each term. These individuals also oversee the elections of represen- tatives to the Forum and any changes that may be made to the constitution, which the Student Fomm abides. by Kate Schmidt Staff Writer Imagine waking up after a night out and ~o11dering how you got home. Yo11look down and reaJize that you're undressed, however, you don\tre:membertaking off your clothes before going to sleep. Two weeks later y<Ju hit your head on a shelf. Tllebump jars loose a horri· fying rn ern()ry from the previous weekencl: ,our date forcefully hold- ing youd()Wil, and the burning pain of your l\e11d .hitting the bedpost. The tne~ory is vivid and undeni- able. Y ()lJ· were raped, and until that moment y()u ltad not remembered the episo(fe. Scenarios, like the one described do occur, arud there has been an in- crease i11 i11stances like this due to a fairly 11et.W drug called GHB. The drug is g~tmma hydroxybutyrate· also Jmow11 as Easy Lay. GHB origi- nated in l!ealth food stores, where it was S()]d as a bodybuilding aid and sleepirug pill. After complaints, the FDA removed· it from the pub- lic. Howe\Ver they were too late, and it waJS al.ready being produced illegally and sold as a \party drug.\ GHB is commonly made in a clear liquid fonn that is col<>dess and odorless. When slipped i11to a drink, GHB dissolves immediat.ely and is virtually tasteless. GHB takes effect within ten to thirty minutes of digestion. Symptoms in- clude: dizziness, nausea, vomiti11g, drowsiness, unconsciousness and \anterograde amnesia\ (memory loss for the events following in- gestion). These features pose a scary threat, considering that the symptoms related to the consllmp- tion of excess alcohol are similar to those ofGHB. Date-Rape drugs are certainly nota new product However, what makes GHB harmfully different than it's predecessors. like Rohypnol, is that it can be easily produced at horne. Even more frightening, anyo11e who has access to the Internet can buy the recipe and the kit with which to create the drug. Because GHB can be created at horne, reci- pes may differ. If measured in cor• rectly, the result could be fatal. Because GHB leaves the b()dy after twelve hours an<l because it is fairly new, prosecutors and emer- gency rooms are having a hard time recognizing and. pinning the drug as evidence. This only stresses the importance of alco- hol awareness and safety. It is hard to imagine a drug like GHB being used within the safe bubble ofUnion' s gates. However, crime~ rape and assault can, and do hap- pen on this campus. With the abundance of parties this term, Campus Safety and Safe Space would like to remind stu- dents to be aware of the opportu- nity for GHB and other drugs 011 campus. Don't drink beverages that come from open containers, or from people you don'tknow and watch out for the safety of your friends. lfyou feel asthough you have been a victim of a rape-drug, contact medical attention immedi- ately. With the awareness C>f GHB and other rape related drugs the op· portunity for assault can be te· duced, thus making our campus a safer environment. ti«Jn- The Vice-PresidentofAdmin- istration is the chair ofthe weekly committee on committees meeting. . This individual over sees all stu- dent activities clubs on campus. This individual is also responsible for the approval ofneworganiza- tions. Also, this individual moni- tors the appointed individuals on standing committees Qll ~;ampus. Vice-President of Finanee-The Vice- President ofFinance ()versees the student actjvities budget of over $400,{)00 that is allocated to ·the S5 clubs on campus, This indi- vidual must spend many hours monitoring the activities of the or- ganizations on campus and also meeting with the 5 appointed fi- nance committee members. This individual must also be available to rneet and talk with the staff in the Student Activities .office and the club treasurers o.n a regular basis. Vice-President of Aeade.mics- ·The Vice-President.of Academics • must have a good re~por with the administration and the faculty. This position requires weekly meet- ings during the day with the Aca- demic Affairs Council. This indi- Class Representatives- It is the responsibility of each class repre- sentative to voice the opinions of their class. It is also the responsi- bility of each class representative to be creative in pr.oviding activi- ties for the members oftMir class. Also, the class representatives are asked to sit in <>n one of the fol- lowing standing committees- The Student Affairs Committee, The Finance Committee, or the Commit- tee on Committees. The member- ship to these committees requires many additional hours in weekly meetings and work for the commit- tee. Any full-time student who will not be going on a tenn abroad next year is eligible for election. There are many great opportunities to become involved in the Student Forum. Please take tile time to investi,.. gate how you can become in- volved. Come tothe office ofSttJ- dent Activites with questions. t r r I ' \ c c d tl ~

<!rottcadrieusis • A ril 29, 1999 • Pa e 5 Union Leaders Take to the Runway Student ForuiU Notes - .... continued from page 1 Debate Club Constitution. Appli- expected starting time. A few min· CaprLpants; Bennett was <Ires sed his leash and pranced around the cations out for committees. utes later, the·Union College Dance in a classy tan suit from stage. Due Friday April 30. Battle of the team emerged' from the blackcur- Christopher's ofHudson Va.lley. Sophomore Erin Aloan casu- bands: Strange Folk, Fighting Grav- tain. The sh~w proceeded witlJ skits ally pulleditoffbycreativelyus- ity, One People. Opening The dancers, all wearing black from many sleek and sexy rrtodels. ing the rope as a prop. The obe- · is winner. Second place winner plays pants and either a white or ...... ,_.---------------...., dientdog followed his owner lobster bake. Battle of bands April shirt, g(:lve an impressive per- • as the couple left the stage 30. $1000toUCARE. Tabling of fund formance. Their movements . through the curtain, laugh- reallocation for Dance Team. Pro- were well choreographed and ing. posalto reallocate $4700 to WRUC. precise. The Another surprise came to. Amnesty International-Kathy utilized the whole stage and ·in... wards the end of the show, ' Kelly speaking Monday, April 26. eluded many smaller group so- 'when President Hull stepped , 6iven $300 by Financ.e Committee. los. • into the lights with Union's i Proposal to allocate Concordy $4500 Dancer Amanda Lawrence new mascot, the Dutchman. • for remainder of year Concordy guar- said, \'Despite the. dimensions· The two excited the crowd as , anteed computer for 1999-2000 aca- of the stage, we were sti:ll able they danced down the run- : demic year. Senior class request for toperf<>rmwelL\ Although the · , displaying their rhyth- ·. · $5000. event was exciting, Lawrence,. • mic moves! GMI class discussed next we.ek. along with other Dance Team The night of glamour and • Wierzbieniec drafted via Yulman members, were disappointed. , glitz ended with the prese11- . Theater. Forum members to sign let- not to see their names within of a large cardboard ter by Friday. Qweer Visibility Week theprogram. to the Make-A-Wish · in progress. Latino Heritage Month Christine B()wer '99 was the in progress. Shakti/ ASU fashion next entertainer to take the show committee meeting with Dean stage. In her casual army at- , Alford Tuesday. Stillman Award cho- tire,. she .performed a creative, · sen. modern dance that she had Exec committee for Student Forum choreographed herself. Her petition out Monday April 26, de- maves were perfectly timed to undation 's volunteer, bate Wednesday April28. Pa's have the striking beats ofthe music . · e DeSimone. ; new system with social committee: she .chose. Ill a robotic inter- The Make-A-Wish Foun- · permanent seats on social commit- pretation, Bowercaptivatedthe dation of Northeast New tee. Tuesday April 27, wine and audience for the third year ina York is a non-profit, privately . • cheese for senior class. Mike Capraro shows offhisfislli:~~ggear. row. funded organiZCJ-tion. It is the SDT remaining active part of Pan- After Bower's act, itwas time oldest and largest wish- · • helwith full voting privileges. Moo- O,ay April26 opens Greek Week. Discussion about burning of Concordy papers. Soccerremoved .from Greek Week events. May I, Greek fonnal. May 27 wine and cheese. Fri- day April23,4-7 PM,BBQ/happy hour at Chets. May I 8, seni<Jr din- ner in upper class. Klothes for Kosovo drive. Open mic night at Chets. Hawaiian shirt day coming. BBQ 8th week with·concertcom- mittee. 1. Motion to approve debate team. 2. Motion to give cash gift. Any clubdesiring to a gi vea gift must be in the form of a gift certifi- cate of tangible good. This will be enforced by the finance committee. German and Spanish language theme houses, Susan B. Anthony house, Symposium theme house on Seward, Delta Gamma living on I stand 2nd floor of Potter North, Tri Delt living on 3rd f.loor of Pot- ter North and all of Potter South. Phi Delta's house given as Minerva house for social learning outside classroom. Thurste11 house moved to Lenox-substance free. TDChi given three year re!lewal. Completion ofOid Chapel Rules. Thanks all those who partici- pated in conference. Went well. Adjourn 9:25PM. for the models to strut their stuff Every thirty-second appeara11ce granting foundation in the world 1\--------. andtake to the runway. Masters made by a dressed-up coup!~ C()n- and exists to grant last wishes to ofCeremonySloan Silver '99 and sisted of a theme and a rehearsed children with tenninal illnesses. Frankie DeLorenzo '99 delivered skit. The school covers the over- an upbeat narrati.on for each en- Randi Spiegal '00 and Steve Hoyt head for the DJ and the stage, so semble. They also gave a short '99 both wore hiking gear and every dollar earned from ticket synops:is of each model, includ- acted like they were on an ex(Jedi- sales benefits this philanthropic ing huwthey are mvolvedvvith the tion, while Mika Street '0 1 waited organization.The e,yent was an . · ·schooL· fbr her date Mat Barry '00 in~~:gor- evening .ofexciteme.nt, style and Stephanie Slobotkin '99 and geous blue evening gown. fun that proved to be a huge sue- Rob Bennett '00 began the daz- The event was notwithoutafew cess. The night of the show, zling affair. Slobotkin wore a Bos- unintended surprises. One nMice- McKee commented, \This is a · ton-based Eye of the Needle out- able shock came when Rollbie tradition we hope to keep going • fit that included bright-colored Olazagasti's '02 dog came o1.1t of for many years to come.'y . Mechanical Engineers Continue to Excel by Professor Frank Wicks Contributing Writer A ritual of spring is the regional American Society of Mechanical Engineers Regional Conference that provides students with the oppor- talked about and displayed a video ofhis smoke flow visualization sys- tem for· a wind tunnel during the speaking competition. --- ........ ------------------------------------1 tunity to meet and participate in com- The design cornpetitio11 pro- vided another opportunity to dis- play the Union College robot in ac- tion that had been co-desigaed by Charles Robertson and Christopher DelSalvio. The scoring formula was based on a combinati()n of lcwest weight, best time and best accu- racy for maneuvering around ob- stacles and retrieving a rock for a Mars landing craft. The innovative Union cog wheel vehicle looked like a winner after two excellent re- trievals with Chris at the controls, but was then edged down to sec- ond place by an ultra light W\!ight tracked vehicle design~d by Villanova Soothing Sounds of Annika Bentley Folk singer delighted audiences at Chet's and Old Chapel petitions against 42 other engineer- ing colleges. This years conference was held at Villanova in Philadelphia and fea- tured Engineering Professor and Space Shuttle Astronaut Albert Sacco as an after dinner speaker and by Mary Felton Staf!Writer A truly talented and evoking concert was given by singer- songwriter Annika Bentley. This past Friday night in Union'sOld Chapel, Bentley's in- spirational lyri<,:s tilled the build- ing. Imagine a voice which is simi- lar in strength and passion to that of Tori Amos, Ani Difrancom the leads inger ofthe Cranberries and you may begin to picture tile type of instrument this young artist posses. In addition to her vocals, Bentley accompanies herse]f with the g11itat and on the piano. She is also joined by two of her family members, Kathleen Fraser, her mother, on the acoustic bass, and Dennis Monroe, who played the violin, mandolin and guitar. This was not Bentley's first time visiting Union. She made an ap- pearance here last year during Spring tenn finaJs week, which pro- duced a poor turnout. Unfortunately, she did not re- ceiveas full of an audience as she deserved this past Friday night as there seemed to be only thirty to forty people, half of whicll were Union students. Her main pe:rf<Or- mance was held in Old Ch~!)el at 8PM, but at 5:30PM Bentley gave a. sample performance at Chet's. Although the turnout for the show was not excessive, S~rab Ahart, a senior at Union, c:om- mented that it almost made tit e .at- mosphere more \personable.•• Ahart also complemented Bentley on her \great presence'' whil~ on stage. The obvious strength and e;!llo- tionin Bentley's singingand,l>lay- ing was complimented by the illti- mate manner of crackingjoke~;. and talking she showed the audie11ce in between pieces. Not much taller than 5'5, s.lim, stylish and with a shock of d.yed blond hair, Bentley set to the st~e with a spunk and a voice filled with overwhelming emotion, whicll left her audience applauding for more. She began the night playing o11e of her own works e.ntitled \Intrepidation Underwater,\ -wflich was her first radio single. The evening continued with many other pieces including some alterna-rock covers, such as the Cranberries, Mazy Star, Alii Difranco, and Leonard Cohe11, to name a few. In addition to the for<~e exhibited in Bentley's voice, there was a strong soothing quality to it which caused many audience members to close their eyes on occasion. It is difficultto describe the feel- ings experienced while listening to this young artist's perfortnance last Friday night. Her presence was commanding, yet reassuring and calming. Possessing amazing and prom· ising talent, this young artist should go far. Last year she re- leased her debut album Se(4 you around, Lifoguard, which can provide any interested listeners a chance to hear Bentley. To swnmarize this evening, Tara Noyes, ajunior, commented that she \loved\ Bentley's style be- cause of it being \unique and dif- ferent.\ There seemed to be something in Bentley's aura that · was able to capture and move the audience with the tones and .. variations of her music. . a judge ofthe competitions in which five Union College students partici- pated. Tom Jenne presented his design and construction of an off road wheel chair and Dan Duphily sh.owed his design and test results ofa geometrically optimized blood pump in the poster sessions. Charles Robertson received a fourth place for his description and video of the design and perfonnance of a rock retrieving robot for a Mars mission and Steven Baumgartner Professor Mario Rivera who is the faculty advisor accompanied the students and was joined by De- partment Chair Richard Wii:k and Professor Frank Wicks wh() took the opportunity to observe and enjoy the speeches and competi- tions. Althougb Bentley claimed to have a hoarse voice from her pre- vious singjng that evening, she was still able to sing with great emphasis and skill, filling Old · Chapel with song. The school . ' would like to thank the Rathskel- ler for sponsering this entertain- ing night. Professor Rivera, Charles Robertson, Steve Buamgartner, Chris De!Savio, Thomas Jenne and Dan Duphily in Philadelphia.

Breaking the Mold Stricken faces stained with tears flashed upon the television screens and covered the pages of newspapers around the country. Those faces belong to the teens whose lives were forever altered because of a ram- page on which two of their classmates took the lives oftwelve peers, one faculty member and themselves. The tragic eve11t has continually sparked discussions in the majority of newspapers as. well as on a vari- ety of television programs. While much of the media coverage focuses on tbe atrocity of the Columbine High. School shooting in Littleton, Colora<lo, the analysis of the incident stems onto an avenue that greatly offe11ds the staff of Concordiensis. After any tragedy it is customary for law enforcement agencies and specialists to analyze the event and offer explanati()ns for its causes. · Because of the violent nature of the incident many are searching for explanations and reasons for the actions of these two adolescents. One of tile answers that is stressed frequently is that the generation from which these kids arose is desensitized to all violence, therefore, these children do not view violence as the horrific act thati1 is. This statement should be very offensive to the mem be~s of the gen- eration to which the analysts are referring, namely e>ur generation. In speaking with various members of the campus community as well as other students in our age bracket, the staff of Concordiensis found that the aforementioned individuals were shocked by tile occurrences in Littleton. Our peers were emotionally effected by the events and empa- thized with the pain and suffering that these high sch()ol students were experiencing. Many of those who were questioned folln<l the incident to be a horrifying one that hit very close to home for those could have been their younger .siblings. If we were desensitized we would not be feeling the surge of sadness nor the utter frustration that was expressed by so mar1y of our peers. If we were desensitized we would not be continuing conversations about the incident because it would not affect our lives nor our thoughts. If we were desensitized we would not be outraged by the actions of these two teenagers nor would we be speaking of changes in legislation to make gun laws stricter_ However, critics oftoday's youth indeed believe that we are without emotion and are unfazed by violence. Why is the media placing blame on us? Why is our g~neration labeled so unfavorably? This is both upsetting and enraging because blame should not be the issue. Instead, the issue should be the future. We are the future of America. We have infinite avenues and possibilities that have yet to be explored. We, as a generation, should set an example that vi()lence is not the answer to the problems that plague us. By referring t() the tragic incic dents in Arkansas, Oregon, Kentucky and now Co1orad(), we can illus- trate that these senseless acts caused pain and suffering;, not solutions. We need to reiterate to our peers and explain to the yo11nger generations that emotions and, more importantly, the expression <Jfthem is an ac- ceptable way to communicate. Because we are a generation of movers and shalcers we have the ability to influence our peers and siblings. By asserting ourselves and expressing our views we can shape the lives of those around us and of those yet to come. Our responsibilities as young adults encompass many important aspects o flife, some of which are challeflging to explain and even more difficult to understand. We need to embrace these chal- leng€s and persuade others to follow our lead. Let's change the stereo- type and prove to the world that we are not the uncaring, unfeeling youth that they expect us to be. BMH Letter Policy & Disclaimer Letters to the Editor should be addressed to theOP/ED page andmust be received by 5 PM the Mondaybefor~ publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue. that concerns the Union College community. Final deciSiortsconcetniQgprinting and/or editing a submission belong tothe._EditorialB(yar& Allletters must be signed and saved onaftighdensity disk;.alihoughthe author' snarne need not appear m thenew~pap¢r, iftb.e writetso specifies; Letters do . not necessaiil,Yretlectthe.ophllon oftheEditorialBoard. Ilditori~ls.retjeqttntl9Pini.on·.0fa ~aJon:eyt·ort~teEditorial. Boal;'d, ·and ofn<>· one; menipe,J:·.tp·parj;iplJ.l@t.·A41Y opinion· colurnnsor·cartoons.reflec.t·1heopini.Ql1Softhewritersorartists~ aruinotneeessaril~ the opinionsof~EditotialD<>ilrd1· Advertis~nientsapp·earirl~ .. in.·Cb.ncqrt/1¢-![tit$ do rt,()t necessarily ret1eetti1eppitllonspfth~JEditorial1Ulard. . . . .. .;,.,... . -.:· . .- .. ·.·: OPlEB Opinions Tired of People Who Think They know It All I recently read an article that de- picted New Jersey as a cesspool oftoxic waste. This article by a girl who has probably never even been there. However, she has enough insight to tell everyone about all the horrible toxic diseases every- one has to endure in New Jersey. One Newsweek article doesn't make you an authority honey. I've lived in New Jersey all my life and I've never seen a three-eyed fish and everyone I know can add just fine. Maybe the girl who wrote the article last week doesn't realize all her Italian leather bags and her BMW, purchased my mumsy and dadums, are shipped to Port New- ark, NJ, not Cape Cod. New Jersey is one of the wealthiest states and has some of the most popular tour- ist attractions. How many people do you think go to Atlantic City each year? For such a miserable place I wonder why MTV held Summer Share '98 in Seaside, NJ. Why go to Cancun or Jamaica when you can go suffer in New Jersey? Maybe they just felt sorry for us. The Garden State, where's that again? Oh yeah IT'S NEW JER .. SEY ~ I wottder whythey call it the Garden SUite when all we have is toxic waste and mutated fish. Maybe it'sbecauseofaUthe dairy products, fruits and vegetabLes we produce eacll year. Bet Newsweek didn't tell y()u that one. New Jersey, where everyone suf- fers from toxic waste poisoning. Gee,. then why .is it ranked among the top 5 states for producing the mc;st college athletes each year? Is it possible that the fumes en- hance athletic ability? Or maybe we're aUjust so stupid that all we can do is run with a footba11 in the direction our coach tells us. Thank God lplay footballormaybe I'd be unloading your sweaters in Port Newark. Some places in New ~ersey may not be a place to take you family, but I like it that way. I'm glad I dicln 't grow up behind a white picket fence and vacation in Martha's Vineyard. I can interact with any clllture and any person from any w-alk of life because I learned to respect people where I come from. Because if you don't, you leam the !lard way. I'm sure Newswee.kdid11'tteU you whatthe hard way is but, you can Jook it up on the net. You want a real New Jersey experiell.ce; give me a call. I'll take you down to Hawthorne street in Newa1lc. Then you can teUeveryor1e there what you think about their hometowns. I'm sure you' 11 quiet down real fast. Or run, And why, becauseyoudon'tknow the first thing about where I come fromor what it~s like. I'll bet my diploma ::y<>u couldn't survive 5 minutes in New Jersey without daddy's g;oM card. I conclusio11, I feel that if any- thing should be sold to Canada, it's people who have something to say about thing.s they know noth. ing about Ne:xttime you write an article do some research. It doesn't take intelligence to make fun of something, so find a new hobby. Take lip some tennis lessons with M uffy and Buffy at the club. Sincerely, Jersey J()'e Attan;.sio Class of 2000 ~raise For the New Jersey Article This is in reference to your ar- ticle. Hopefully the fact that I do not intend to threaten your life in this letter does not prove unique. I mere ley wished to congratulate you on the eloq11ent deconstruction of the nation's least valuable asset, that being New Jer- sey. My close proximity to it, be- ing a resident of Long Island, al- lows me to live the nightmare of the \Jer-sey Driver\ daily(when i'm horne). It was, afte-r all~ David Lettennan who claimed one of the primary rea- sons the British lost the American reveltttion was that \they first in- tended to 011ly lose New Jersey and it got out <>f hand.\ Sincerely, Mike M~G11ire Copy Editor E:xtradonlinaire and anti-garden. state sympathiZer. (The bastards stole the Statue of Liberty for God's sake!!!) Union the Beautiful - Except One Well Union, the unthinkable has happened ... the shoes of everyone's favorite Union student, DavidKay, have finally been filled. Two weeks ago this extraordinary person managed to upset the sis- ters ofSDT. I guess the number of people affected by those comments was not enough, so last week she went after an entire state. If you don't already know who I'm talk- ing about, checlc out the Opinions section, I'm sure she's got some- thing brillianttosay this week also. On behalf of all the New Jersey residents, attending school at Union, I would now like to pass a few comments on to the ingenious author of these articles. Last weeks article, ~'America the Beautiful - Except One\ was a feeble attempt at voicing your opin- ion about things on this campus. The fact that you related the mas- ter key problem and price problem to New Jersey Was hardly amusing and made no sense. Ifyou would open your eyes, and look outside the Utopia you call home; you would find rundown cities and en- vironmental problems in all 50 states. In fact, one of these days, when you are not busy ripping on people, take a walk down State Street and get a sense of what I am talking abo11t. Then, when your done there, scoot down Erie Bou- levard and take a look at the GE plant. That is bigger than any plant! fact(}ry I have ever seen in New Jersey. Hovv about you? Oh that's right, mommy and daddy probably wont let you in that \vast waste- land,\ as you like to put it. As for the statement, \ No New Jersey means the elimination of air- pollution, ti:Jree eyed fish and the Nets,\ ... Ha> Ha, Ha, very clever. No New Jersey actually means that all tbe preci()US toys and vehicles that you own, would not exist, be- cause New Jersey is one of the larg- est importers in the east. But you wouldn't kn(}W that either. What exactly are you basing these comments on anyway? The Jers~y shore incidences in the past? Well if that is the case, I'll have you know that all the garbage and waste w.ashing up on the shores was fiom cities to the north, such as New '( ork and, believe it or not, BOSTON. Yes, even the state you live in .!las cities that cause poll!ltion. Oh, and by the way, I here the Charles river and the Boston Harbor are lovely places to take a switrt In facti here Boston is.hav~ ing another party, only instead of throwing tea,. this time ihey are throwing arrogant wannabe jour- nalists. Gee, Wh<> would be great for that? r hate to make comments about another state, it is a bit hypocriti- cal, but . I am only trying to get a point across. I believe that Massa- chusetts .is a beautiful state and hold nothi11g; against it. So, resi- dents of Massachusetts, please do not take offense. Anyway, getti11g back to my little rant, I feel that you made these comments blindly. Everything you think you lcnowaboutNew Jersey, you learned from other peoples comments. Therefore, I think it is necessary for yoll to look at New Jersey foryourseJf. Like I said ear- lier, there is no perfect state in America, but it tr11ly is a nice place to live. In concl!Isi()n,.ifyou still believe that the only thittg to come out of New Jersey is trash, so be it. I would much rather be trash than somebody who makes rude and derogatory statements about people and places they know noth- ing about. Sincerely, GregWmiams Class of 2000 ·j i l j I i ~:

i ' : Yulman Theater Politics Do you want to see your friends in your yearbool{? Db you want to go see Union st11deJJ.ts perform lead roles in a Unioll production? Well, then don\t g;o s·ee Cabaret because Union students are playing only three.all1 of eight lead roles in the show .. A.fterreading the article that was printed last week about Cabtret, one would think that there was really no controversy at all. We are here to tell you that this is just n~t true. Let's discuss the cliiims that the theater depaxtltlent faculty have made. First, the director claims that priority was goingto be given to Union students. In any other show atUllioll, auditions are held and Cl cast is put together usi n!l the student popu lati()n that auditioned. The <lirector contradicted herse:lf'in an email that was sent to several students during auditions. The email stated that, \although auditi()ns have been op.en sofar,ithas always-been my intell.ti()ll to give first priority to Union students.\ Is this to say that the director already knew at that point that she was goingt;o() use community members to fill.lea<l roles? Also., if Union students were to begive:n preference, why was the role: MSally Bowles, a female lead, givea tt() a SUNY student when it w~s l:letween her and a Union stude11t after the second round of auditio11s? An()tlJer claim by the department was that Union students did not have tme talent to be cast in the sho~- in:terestingly enough, in the original cast of Cabaret there is a need foronly six Kit Kat Club girls. In the: Union production there are th irte:e11 women cast for these roles. Jt would seem that Union studei!t:s:did in fact have the talent if the: director was comfortable casting seven additiolJal women. The department als() found the need to get community residents to play the older male aad female roles for the show. The reason was that the Union students could not look like an older person. Since when does the department do shows about college-age pe<>ple? Shows are about people of a range of ages and: yet we pr()duce them here at Union. Why the·change in policy? The department mem'bers also claimed that they were unable to cast the show because several uppe~classmen majors did not audition. Since when has Union become a theater scl1ool'? When tours are given, incoming. students are told that you do notneed to be a theater major to get mles in shows and be involved in theater. Casts for shows prior to th.is one ·demonstrate that not only theater majors get lead roles. S<> why all of a sudden a different claim? Is it only to cover the department's actions and make things seem okay to the campus community? If Union wants to reacll out to the community let it do so through speakers and activities that are not a part of academic programs. Shows that are produced by the department exist to allow majors and other students to gain experience in theater. We attend college to learn and try new things · at our chosen schools. We do not .pay so that oth.er students can experience things at our expense. Besides, whe11 ~as the last time you saw acomrnu11ity resident, not enrolled at Unian, an the football team? Let us add a few brief final points. First of aii,Professor Finlay was not \only to<J happy to speak to\ students as Dean Alford states in the article .. We wrote an email to Professor Finlay about two weeks ago about this issue and never heard anything in return. Secondly, we do not think that the issue is \distorted.\ On the contrary, students have not been given a balanced picture of what happened and why. And finally, many students are not feeling \positive\ and some are even bitter about how this issue was handled because they couldn't do anything to change it. Could we really ask for the show to be recast and create a bad environment vvithin which to work? What could vve do? Those in the show don't complain becausethey have roles and if they did complain do you think that they would still be in the only musical prod.uced at Union in the last four years? Yes, there wasc()ntroversy at the Yulman Theater. And every student should know because it is · our school and we should participate in the activities. Don't you think? Sincerely, Deboralt Leif Lauren Brecher Class of 1999 The 1999 GARNET YEAR- BOOK is in need of candid photographs. Anyone and ev- eryone can submit pictures. Please write your name and box number on the back (or home address if graduating) if you would like them returned. Send photos to campus box #0218 or to the Student Activi- ties Office, The more pictures you submit, the better your yearbook will be, so please help out! <llnn.cnrni.ensis The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Thanks Given for Presentation Bro()ke Barylick - David Brooks EDITORS-IN-CHIEF I walilt to thank Professor Berk, on lle:h~lf of 'the brothers' of Phi Gam111 a Delta, for giving an intelleo()tually enriching and interestirlg presentation on \anti- Semitism: Its Origins and :Status,\ at our cfulpter house, on the evening of Tt~esday, April 20, 1999. Refre~ltments were served for the room full of people who attended. For tho.se who could not make it, videotaJle of the presentation will be avaifable for loan in the Library. My ))8re11ts, Howard and Sherri Lippm~tn,were thrilled to be able to meetPr<>f. Berk and to get a glimpse ofUni1n1 College life by joining the privihge:d audience to hear his presentation. I, as well as many others~ felt lucky to be a part Qfthe presentation and the discussion that took place afterwards. Prof. Berk;sadvice and warnings were honest, morally sound and practical. In particular, his caution to put a stop to anti- Semitic conversation by challenging the speaker was useful artd helpful. His statement that one·cannot utter a racist or discriminatory remark in the direction of an(lther was particularly telling. · I f()und it interesting that in his opinion the major problem facing the American Jews today is not anti-Semitism, but a reverse fo1111 of anti-Semitism. That is, in the face of tl!e limitless possibilities and fteedom to live any lifestyle one desires, the American Jew does not cho()seto 'live Jewish'. Everyone in attendance was cap- tivated by the deptn of his knowl- edge, the ease with which he spoke, a:nd his witty sense of humor. I want to thank you again, professor Berk, for spreading awareness of Jewish concerns a11d enriching the intellectual life ofUnion College. I also want to thank the lEG commit- tee for co-sponsoring the event. Sincerely, Jordan P. Lip)) man Class. of 2-0CO Jaime Chandler EXECUTIVE EDITOR Elisabeth Kidder OPINIONS EDITOR Jessi.ca Zuehlke NEWS EDITOR Brian Terlinsky SPORTS EDITOR Scott Scullion . FACULTY ADVISOR Kimberly Rohback A&EEDITOR • Slaon Miller Cory Silken PHOTO EDITORS Erika Mancilli EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Victoria Hargreaves SCIENCE & 1ECH EDITOR Neil Routma11 WORLD NEVIlS EDITOR Jon Kelson MichaelS. McGuire COPY EDITORS Danielle Devime Amanda Jacl<son ADVERTISEMENT COORDINATORS Steve Mortefolio PROMOTIONAL MANAGER PHOTOGRAPHERS: Chip Crary, Shannon Conaty, Jennifer · MacDowell, Jeremy Messler, Sloan Miller, Da ''e Meguerdichian, Leah S-Baker, Rebecca Walsh. STAFF: Matt Aronowitz, Jeffrey Ausfeld, Steve Ayers, Jessica Brearton, Gin11 Cam pan ella, John Carbone, .Lis.a Carbone, Heather Clements, Eri11 Connoly, Jim DeW ann, Mary Felton, Stephen Flaherty, Peter Flynn, Heath Fradkoff, Matt Gendron, Lori Greene, Sarah Harsll, Courtney Hayden, Mike Iger, Joo Kelson, Daniel Kelhmanovich,Jordan Lippman, Hugh Meyer, Sloan Miller, Shaun Montana, Stephen Nemeth, Brian Roache, SCeve Sclloler, Mark Shemel, Eugene Shultz, Adam-Paul Smolok, Rory Stern, Jon Tapper., Charles Tuthill, John.Z~ndman.

PageS · April29~ 1999 • Tap- P· er's Column .. _ purely speculation. I got the paint- by Michelle Tham Editor-in-Chief Emerita by Jon Tapper Staff Writer ers' side of the story. But I am amdous to hear how the college is going 1o tty to weasel out of this PR disaster. I love the sun! Sitting here, gazing out at a sun- splashed campus with a glimmer- ing sparkle of yellow warmth cov- ering everything in sight, 1 cannot help but be happy. It is the strang- est thing, how a littl~ bit of extra light can make the world a more blissful and enjoyable place. The weather, up until recently, lus been a gray and morose damper on an otherwise potential-filled Spring term. I suppose I write about tllis ev- ery year. I cannot help it, th.ough. With the season of spring co,mes sunlight and an indescribable urge to scurry outdoors. It's funny how the sun, such a wonderfully enlightening presence, is also a danger to our delicate skin. When I was in the Bahamas over Spring Break, I would lazily fall asleep on the beach under the noon- day sun, only to awake and find my face covered by a towel. No mat- ter where I tried to hide myself along those sandy strips ofland, my mother always managed to find me and keep me from achieving a much-desired tan. I know that the effects ofthe UV radiati()n on my face aren't going to be pretty when I age, but I love feeling sunlight against my face. Thei'e is no better way to fall asleep. For my mother, though, the sun is the enemy. Du1ing our vacation, she would sit under a large beach umbrella, attired in a floppy straw hat, sunglasses and vibrant, tropi- cal scarf around her legs. Much like some movie s1ar,. hiding from the onslaught of a<loring fans, my mother was barely recognizable. Although she does love the beach, she does not love the appearance ofbeing tan. This seems like a bit ofaparadox, but in the Asian cui. ture ... a pale, white face is the epitome of beauty. Being tan is as- sociated with hard labor and seen as unattractive. It's funny, because my mother will see my tan face, wrinkle her nose and say disapprovingly, \You just look like you're dirty.\ I'll sar- castically reply, ~'Thanks, Mom ... love you too,\ but I know that she is right and just !coking out for my well-being. I suppose like that \Everybody's Free to Wear Sunscreen\ song that is incessantlyplayi11g on the radio, my mother does bave some sort of more experienced knowhow that I should take into account. I know how bad the sun is for I promised two weeks. ago that . the daysofthiscolumnbeingused my skin, and I know that I am · just to ramble about nothing were damaging my body every time ;J . ov:er. Truetomyword,Ihadnoth- fail to put on sunscreen. The ing to write last week, so I didn't strange thing is, I don't really care. submit an article. But this is a new I make a conscious decision to week and I have managed to find bake my skin to a crispy golden- . · something else to be pissed off brown and compromise my health. about, so on with this week's story. It is a very odd phenomenon, the !f. was walkingto class on-Friday way humans <lo damage to their • · afternoon when I noticed a large bodies without consideration of . group of people .standing outside consequence. As young adults, we · of the main gate out. in fwnt of poison ourselves all the time with . · President Hull's house. Being the excessive amounts of alcohol,tar- . curious type,l walked over to find filled cigarettes, and who knows • out what all the commotion was. what other mind-altering drugs .. · It was a group of picketers pro- But it is a free ehoice of ours, to . · testing the school's decision to hire be reckless and oblivious to the . • non-.union workers to paint the possibility ofhalln. I am not sure · houses on Seward Place. They if it is a screaming out for inde- wereholdingaveryorderly infor- pendence or just ignorant follow• · · mational picket session. ing of the masses. Either way, our Naturally, I became outraged failure to take care of our bodies .. when i heard their story. Appar- may have some ill-fated and un- ently, the Capital Region has a expected repercussions. painter's union. It ensures that no I suppose the reasoning behind · matter who gets hired, they have these actions is closely intertwined · to he paid a fair wage as stated in with this idea that as young adults, their contracts. Union College, we are \invincible. \But maybe it's despite taking $30,000 dollars a just because we would rather live year from every student on this life the way we want to right now, campus, decided to cut corners and than worry 40 years from now that . hire non-union workers to do the we hadn't lived enough. Either work for a much lower price. way t-it's a question of choice: to Now, this has nothing to dowith live recklessly or sensibly. . the people who have been hired to The part that really gets me. is not so much that they are screw- ing over the painters. I expected that. Union College screws over a: lot of people both on campus and off campus. The part that I don~t get is President Hull going around: saying how he is forgi11g new com- munity relations in Schenectady and how great these changes are. So let me get this straight. leav- ing one part of the working class unemployed, while significa11tly underpaying the anQtlter part ofth.e work force to do the job that tile \qualitie.d'' people an: supposed to do is a good thing for Schenectady? This is my take on the wllole issue. Roger Hull cares ~bollt one person, a11d that person is Roger Hull. Roger Hull mea. sm;es his job success based on orre thingand one thing only. The bot· tom-line. Ifhe spends less money and brings in tons of donations, then he is doing a good job. But if Roger Hull were to spend money to help out the community and not get anything in return, then he is doing a bad job. That makes no se11se. You can't have it both ways. -------------------------------------~ do the job. I'm sure they are fine While we are sort of on the sub- ject, .how is the Seward Place deal a gootl deal for the residents who are already there? Wllat Union did was go in there, flex their finan- cial muscle, and buy out anyone who .had a price or couldn ,t afford- to be ·run over by the Union trust Word Search by Amanda Jackson E R R A s B R u E G G E R s H N I E s B p A E M I K R c I F A s T I A E R s B u G L E R E R 0 T L D y 0 A u L R I N R E M K R T A s B D 0 H E F E 0 B D F s I N K z c s 0 u A s R p N I A T M R E L E L N L R s v A y u I 0 N y E N 8 w E 0 s I I T R N u A E T G F A 0 T E D N L E K s L T E E p s R s s A v I L I A H D A y I T s E y L I T N s R E E I s D L E R G G s E w L K M L T s u T D L s I T L I T I 0 u N I 0 N I N N M R T F N E L L T H c L L y s R 0 I B T u N M s T E 0 G 0 A y A A 0 D E 0 v E 0 N H A T H E p 0 s T c s c u s M R R p v c E N R R D J E s 0 T E M B s c R u N M B N A R .I H E K N E D p s E I T A D E H L A I A u T u s 0 N 0 0 A 0 F E I A B s I A T p s I s D c R L E N c 0 p u R p G u T s N N y A s w A L R K 0 s c s E T G p I M .A c A R 0 N I G R I L L E s N c I L I c N E E R y K T F J A y s T R E E T K H s A M H I R 0 A R E 0 H E T H E s I p J s T K p A L T F L E E T H E c I N y M G 0 N K R N 0 u A c A I H R c M F R I D A y s H E R D 0 u M R T D u N K I N D 0 N u T s E T E M N c T H D E PLACES WHERE YOU FIND UNION COLLEGE STUDENTS VANDYKE RUPSIS FRIDAYS GEPET10S CROSSGATES MACARONI GRILL GINZA BRANDYWINE ROTTERDAM MALL A PLUS PRICE CHOPPER DUNKIN DONUTS THE POST ELLIS CVS HOLLYWOOD VIDEO FRIENDLYS UNION INN BRUEGGERS BIG HOUSE SCOTTYS MOHAWKS STARBUCKS FLEET J.AYSTREET E L 0 E D I v D 0 0 w y L L 0 H T T u 0 s painters and their work will be top ofthe line. But this has to do with Union screwing over the Schenectady working class. Those people who were picketing on Fri:.. day have families to support and children to feed. Let me put it this way, how can Union take food out of local children's mouths like that? The answer .is simple, an- · other screw job by the people who make up the administration at this . college. Now I have not received an of- ficial comment from the adminis- tration regar.ding this issue yet. I have contacted President Hull's office but cQuld not get anyone to comment on this issue. So, my take on their side of the issue is machine. The Union Co11ege ben- efits are: all new housing for stu- dents, so now Union owns off- campus housing. T:he Schenectady benefits-are: possibil- ,ity offi'ee education f()r theircllil- dren and a better neighborhood (full of college kids~ must be the residents' dre&m come true) . T() make a long story short, when is Union going to stop screw- ing <lver the people of Sche11ectady, the .Union stude11ts, and anyone not named Roger Hull?· Comments can be sent to Box 112037. . . Fill • the Blank 10 Concordiehsis' take on Mad Libs. Play with a .friend, ask .him/her to provide you with the responses for. the blank spaces.After, read the st()ry back with the filled-in blanks. Last nighf; I was at . , and decided I needed LocaiB~r to make some new friends. I saw so.me guys and Nationality struck up a conversation. Much to my surprise, they startc;Jd talking about ~~-:-:--~-and-~....._ ___ ! I didn't quite know Noun Plural N<llm how to join their conversation, so I ordered a~·~--=-~~~ and Bev~rage . drank it. I started t() nervously ~--~---~~ --~v~-e~rb--- Adverb and they asked me what was wrong. I te.t> Ii'ed, \~_ Word of~Urprise and ran out of the place. On my way hom¢ I ran into a __ ~- _,..._.....,__......_._ Adjective man! My __ --::--:----night felt like it WOllld never end. 1 hurried to Adjective my room, cuddled with my~~-~~- and feU asleep. Thank- Animal fully the night was over.

., ! 'I \ g Xeed G/iifd Care \ 9n !J/(y Jlome 9 ~ :71urnl Jhfls, :Jorlwo ener!Jefic /U(/s ,(& year old boy and 6 year ofdyi.rf}. 2lrusl have drivers license, a non smolie.r, and refer,... ences. 40~.50 .hrs/ wee£ Yor more cleiails caf! 399,..0.593 :J ,;;,:7/I'is c5ummer (612&~913) CDC UpdCLtes .... 'May 3,-.d. Opporbaniti«S in 'the Pbannaceut:.ieall~dwst;ry: Dr. l\on~ma:rt Spicebandler M.D. ~70. President of Sc.her.ing-Plough Rese.arca I'nstirut:e. will be spe<tk:ing on the opportuniti.es i:n his :field. RSVP r-equired. please call the CDC to confirm @ x61 76. Lunch wUl be pl-\'~vided. 12: .15pm Everst Lounge New .Je-rsey Collegiate Career Day hosted by Rutgers University: A.Il stude:nts are invited. :23() en1ployers ,are expecr:ed! This is a free event and pr-e-registration is not req1,lired. The event -will take place on May 26th fr<>:tn 9:30-3::3() at Rutgers University. S~R OPPORTUNITIES: These organizations will have representatives on caxnpus to discuss su:rn.mer employment opportun..i- · t:ies b.1• their respective organ~tions. May ~ Kt:rahelp Employment Services Ma;y 4 M.anpow-er EJ:nployrnent Agency 11-2plD CC Atrium ll-2,PJn CC Atrium INTEB.NSHIPS: Ti:rne is. running out to get a su:rn.mer internship! Com.e to the CDC :for infbnnation to f\md an in:te.r:nsbip for yqu. Please check~ vvebsite or drop in .. 3rd floor ·af Old Chapel. Chec:k out 'the CDC: '\Ve'bsite :for up-,-to-dat:e jo'b listings and a:hnounce- . ment.s. . bt:tp:/Iw\W:W.un.ion.edu.leareer/CDC/CDC..htxnl ·h We are looking for energetic students to serve as tutors. Employment applications are now available for the 1999 - 2000 Academic Year All majors are encouraged to apply. Deadline for submission is Wednesday, May 12 Applications can be picked up at The Academic Opportunity Program Office Bailey Hall, Room 1 01 Faculty nominations are strongly desired. For mo-re information, please contact: 388-6115 RITE AID- Photo ·Processing Go to RITE AID for All of Your PhotoN eeds RITE AID is located on Van Franken Ave (518) 382-3304 ***PUBLIC RELATIONS*** Sports/Entertainment $400 WEE KIST ART Albany Ad Company needs 15 people to work in pro baseball, golf, and hospitality industry. Full training in PR, Customer Service, Marketing & Management. Experi- ence not required. Career advance- ment. *STUDENTS WELCOME* Summer and Career Opportunity!! Call Melanie 786-1935

P:age. tO·. Apri129, ·1,99 • ctlmn:nrlrit:n!Sis World News ·: ·~- n.; -' :: . -.:,'. ~ .. :. Massacre at High School Sho.cks Columbine, Color·ado; Thirteen dead ~'Trench Coat Mafia\ Gunmen Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold opened fire of feflow classm4ies by DavidGruner StafjWriter Foraschooldistrict that has one of the lowest drQpout rates in its state and seventy-five percent of its high school graduates continu. ing in coll~ge, the incident at C.ol· umbine High Sc!lool, located in Littleton, ColoTadcwas both h()r- rific and immensely disturbing. Last Tuesday, during the lunch period, two higll school students, Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold, equipped with thirty bombs, a nine-millimeter semiautomatic rifle, two pistol-grip shotguns, on·e handgun and at least one hundred rounds of amrn uni1ion, killed thir- teen people and \N()Unded twenty- three, eleven of wll ich are still hes- pitalized. Both of the gunrn en died in the attack through self-inflicted gun- shot wounds. It .is said to have been the deadliest school massa- cre in the nation's history-a mas- sacre never to be forgotten. The tw() gunrne11 were labeled as outcasts, <:alling themselves the \trench C(}at Mafia,\ and express- ing contempt fonacial minorities and athletes. An unidentified young woman stated the night after the incident, \Everyone arou!ld me got shot and I begged llim for ten minutes not shoot me ... a11d he just put the gun in my face ctnd started laugh- ing and saying it was all because people were meant<J him last year.\ That same night, the Mayor of Littleton, PatCron'enberger, issued a statement via television- ·~on be- half of the more than 40,000 citi- zens ofLittleton, Colorado l' d like to express my deepest sympathy to the fam i!ies and the victims af today's tragedy at ColumbineHigh SchooL. please pray for the vic- tims, the wounded, their famili;es and our community as we attempt to understand and heal from this terrible loss.\ President Clinton added t() the Mayor's statement, saying, \ ... pledge <>urselves to the tasks of was going on. While tllere were only two perpetrators, others were involved in the overall planning. These individuals are yet to be foundand it is difficult to say when they will be located, aut~otities said. The rest of the week was filled. with anguish and sorrow, as both Littleton and the nation at large began to come to tenns with what took place-there are many unan- swered questions that m11st be dis- cussed in order to find solace for such an unresolva'ble happening. There have been many similar ers turned a man parking lot into a stadium of grief. Qfthose in atten- dance, several prominent American officials were among the crowd: Vice President AI Gore, Gen. C()lin L, Powell, Governor Bill Owens~ and most ofColorado~s Congressional delegation. Men, women, andtthil- dren watched in tears as an .ctrray ofsongs andprayers were su11gor said. Vice President AI G0re, stan.<Jing in for Presi·dent Clinton, de· nounced the killers, claiming Mr. Harris and Mr. Klebold to be far from the \spirit of America.\ Yet, \In recent findings, authorities· have claimed that the killers had wanted to ''kill at least 500 hundred others, atta·ck nearby homes and .then hijack a plane and crash it into New York City. '' putting an end to the culture.of vio- lence.\ Police ()tficers and the Dis1riict Attorney, David J. Thomas, are still in shock as to how the gu nrn en were ablet() get the equipment i11to the school corridors. All said and done, there is s<>me evidence to suggest that other people were at least aware ofwhat events over the past few years~ Jonesboro. Arkansas being one, that took place March <Jf 1998. L iffleton, Colorado is one more to add to the list of treacherous and unpatriotic acts. On Sunday, a memorial service was held in Littleton, attracting over 70,000 mourners-students> friends, relatives and even strang- the Vice President did not forg;et to shed some 1ight on the incident, giving the city of Littleton as well as the people of America hope for the future-that this such occur~ renee wiHnotbe tolerated and more attention will now he devoted to ensure that something of this na- ture will neverhappen again. Thursday of this week stuclents are to re111m to Columbin¢ High School,. l'e:tllm to their ·.education that wasllnjustly taken away from them 1a:st week. · In rece11t findings, a11thorities have clained that the f<.i Hers had wanted to'\kill at least 50() hundred others, a.1tack nearby b()mes and thenhij aclca plane andcrash it into NewYori<City.\ If su<JcessfuUy completed, sheriff's c!epartment s:p()kesman Steve Davis said, \The1e could have I:Jeeil (jUite a bitm()te damage and quite a few more fatalities.\ Fortunate!:,, this did not take place as the killers took their ()Wn lives in the I i~rary of Columbine High SchooL Whatlla\)pened last week was sometni11g no one shouJd have to endure, ret as Phylli$ Cain, a mother o fa student atColumbine, remark eel, '\'They wanted death and destructi-011. Instead, we've all co111e t()getlter; they ca11·~t kill the message.. They can't kill the hope.\ Littleto11 <mtlived the gunmen and will, ill effect, outlive themas- sacre-wltenand how, tho11gh, is to be determined by the individuals themse lV\es. *Ifyouarc interested in helping out in a.n::Yway in accordance with the tra.g;edy th.at occurred last week, yo-u may send d<:mations to: Jeffers~n County Sch()ols Attn: Columbine High Schaol P.O.Bm 4001 Goldtem,Colorado 80401. Recent School Shooting has given the President a chance to Renew Guu Control Legislation NRA Executilre Vice President Wayne fa Pierre blames the Parents of America's lncrea.5ingly VilJII~ni Youth by Cllarles Tuthill staff writer r n the wake of the recent scltool shooting in Little1()n, Coloradothe isstJe of gun control has been pushed to the forefiont of nati (mal discussion. Many groups such as the NRA s.ighttherr Fifth Amelld- ment right to bearctrms as an argu- ment against gun C(}ntrol, whereas many believe thaithe sale ofgu.ns should be more st.-ictly regulat-ed in order t() preve11t tragedies such as the one in Co)()rado. The recent schod shooting has given the preside11t a chance tore- new gun contro ll~gislation, wl!kh died in Congress la.st year. As part ofhis crime pa.ckage, Clinton no1 only wants to limit the sale ofhalld- guns but a.lso wants to put tighter restrictions on tl1e sale of explo- sives such as dynflmite. Clinton is proposing back- ground checks forthose who want t() buy dynamite, blasting caps, or similar materials. However critics of the plan fi<Jte tllat it does not cover fertilizers and other volatile chemicals which can made into an explosive mix. Critics a.lso point out that some of the dead.liest terrorist attacks us- ing explosives have used fertiliz- ers and otlter chemicals not cov- ered under the Clinton proposaL They point to instances sucll as the bombing of the Federal buHd- ing in Oklal!oma City as an example of a tragedy which Clinton· s pro- posal would not cover. In tile bombing, Timothy McVeigh used fertilizer to create the deadly explo- sion that killed 168 people. Critics also point (}Ut that the shooters in the Colorado school did not use dynamite or oth.er such explosiv~s instead they made their own hland made exp)()sives from items such as ordinary fertilizer and propa11e gas tanks. Restrictions on explosives are only one small part of the Clinton plan, whiclt focuses on gun co:n .. troL According to his aids, Clinton is proposing mandatory child safety locks on all hand guns, a ban on juvenile possessio11 of semiautomatic assault rifles, llacl<.- ground checks for those pur~has­ ing fire arrr1s at gun-shows; a lif.e- time ban o11.flrearms for those con- victed of violent crimes even if committedas a juvenile, a minimum three-day waiting period for all handguns,. and a sentence of three to ten years for adults who allow childre11 access to firearms along with a 1 0,00() dollar fme. The Clinton plan has gained the support of many that want to avoid another disaster such as the one in Colorado. The plan also has its opponents who believe that tighter gun control infringes on the rights of Americans. An outspoken op- ponent of gun control has beelll Tom Daschle. Daschle is a Demo- crat representing. South Dakota~ where firearms are popular among many of his constituents. Daschle told reporters that he was \not sure that gun legislation is what we need.\ The South pakota Senator is supported by many interest gr()ups that have similar views on gun contro I. The most outspoken of these groups is the National Rifle Asso- ciation, which believes that there- cent school shootings are a result ofsocial problems and not of the availability of firearms. NRA ex· ecutive Vice President Wayne Ja Pierre blames the parents of America • s increasingly violent youth, claiming that they are \look- ing away at behavior that [his generation • s] parents never would have tolerated.\ La Pierre believes that the country as a whole is\look- ing the other way at evil behavior\ a11d that \we.. . need to focus ()n what would turn students into ho- micidal maniacs.\ LaPierre's view, however,.isceon- tradicted by many recent studies, which claim that the increaseil1ju- venile viole11ce, which has tti!)led from 1986 to 1993, is a symptom of the availability of handguns. lPro- fessor Franklin Zimring, author of one of the studies, claims that \youth in 1998 are no more pmne to violence th.en teens\ in 1~78. Professor Zitnring points out that in areas where police have played a more active role in the confisGa- tion ofh~md guns from minors the crime rate lias dropped subs.ian- tially. Zimringhas also gone CJn to say that he does not believe that today's children are becoming more violent, telling reporters \ ... during the late SO's and early 90's, while we worried about superpredators, the average case of juvenile v io Jence was becoltling less serious every year.\ Zim:ring points to a d,ecline in the nurni:Jers of rapes and thefts on the .part of juveniles in order show that the youth of today have not become more violent. Zimring' s study contradicts groups such as the NRA, wlto claim that the increased violence among America's youth is dwe to social problems, and oppose most forms o()f 15un controL Certa,in groups trecpresenting firearms inter- ests, h()\Ve-ver, are not toially op- posed to fbe Clinton plan. The National Association ofFederally Licensed Gun Dealers oppose many of the sections of the Clinton plan, ahtllo.llgh they apprO<Ve of the section 'banning the sale of fireanns to any()ne who has ever commit- ted a viOtlent offense. However, Andrew Molchan, direct()r of the group, beli ~ves that the rest of the Clintotl pahtn \is an unfortunate di- version ... tllat takes energy, time and tllOllgllt away from real. is,. sues.\ Molch.an' s group sh()WS how the sch<lol shooting in Littleton, Colorad(:) luve blurredtlle line be- tween thoe opposing sides in the gun cCJn tro l debate. Ordinary peoplevJh()would not hav·e backed strong glln control measl!res have changed'their opinions because of the tragedy. Clinli:o11\ s rejuvenatedgun con- trollegi:SI;ation, which failed to pass through <:<Ingress earlier in his term, is ~lso a sympt()Jn of this same p herromenon. As Senator Richard Durbin points out \this Littleton,. Colorado, trag;edy can galvani:ze:tllemajodty\ needed for stricter J;U11 control laws. on 011 th4 su ra Su de de ca thi ne br th4 Cl ar Fa er- ciJ pr Oll sh pe ca de fir \v th4 Tl m• de M re: en in1 al! tr( se tit

World News O!tm:cnrbi.tnsis • April 29, 1999• Page 11 Chinese Religious Protests Largest since Tiananmen Ten Thousand Religous Followers of Fttlun Gong Converge on the Square to Protest Government~s Intolerance by Stephen Nemetll StaffWriter . . . r Beijing's tiananm~n Square was once again the sit.e.of a large dem- onstration S\lnday, only this time the pmtesters were trying to gain support for a religious movement rather than a political one. Sundai s event marked the biggest demonstration .since the 1'989 s~u­ dent protests for democracy that caught the attention of the world. The estimated lO,OOOprotesters that flocked to the infamous Chi- nese square where hundreds were brutally repressed came· to show their support and to persuade the Chinese govemm,ent to recognize a relatively new religion known as Falun Gong. . The demansttators made a pow- erful impression through their dis- cipline and silence. Most of the protesters stood or sat for the day outside Zhongnanhai, the leader- ship compound, and dispersed peacefully at night. These demonstrations also a.,gainst mass gatherings put in place since the Tiananmen Square demon~trations. The protest elicited much fasci- nation but limited .sympathy from tbe city'.s residents. \Til.ey're ·crazy,\saidLiXiaoming w:ho works for a transport company. \B:ut there are a lot ofthem, so the government has to listen.\ At the protest, followers e)C:tolled tbe virtues.oftheir cult. \I am a. bet,. tc;r father and husband and dti- zen,\ said a 48-year-old man who nacfbeenamember for the past six years. \ldon't get sick anymore,\ .tile ·man continued. \If eve:ryo!le ishealthy, it wiH save medicalcosts a.nd be good for society as a wllole. We are making a better so- eiety .\ Founded in 1992 by Li Ho11gzhi, a martial arts masterwho now lives in New YQrk because he was forced from the c<iuntry for.his activities, Falun Gong offers a combination of meditation, exercise, and refor- mulated ideals from Buddhism and Taoism. At least 70 million Chinese fol- official estimation !Tom the Chinese Government. Falun followers converged on Beijing to protest an incident in Tianjin, a part city JO()kilometers (60 miles) southeastofthe capital, said Rong Y i, a spokeswoman for Liin New York. Earlier last week, after a Tianjirt youth magazine criticized Falun, practitioners protested and police had to use force to drive away the believers, detaining some for a short time, Yi said. Yialso went on to state that Falun also had a hard time trying to get books published. The protesters on Sunday wanted the Chinese government to clarify its position regarding the legality of the religion and to en· sure that it can practice safely. The government re~ponded by distributing leaflets disregarding a rumor of an upcoming ban on the religion and police v-isited the homes of many dissid(nts affiliated with the group. arts techniques exercises that at- tempts to channel powers and im- prove health. Yi added that Li' s teachings emphasize \truth com- passion and forbearance,\ prom- ise cosmic powers that will protect practitioners and offer the means to a higher stage of conscious11ess, or enlightenment. • She made clear, however, that Falun is not political or anti-gov- ernmental in any aspect, but said that it teaches practitioners to be good citizens and to improve their health .. Li added, \It is inconceiv- able that the government is not rec- ognizing these points.\ Li has also come under pressure from otherqigongmasters who he has denounced as \possessed with foxes orye'llow weasels,. and some with snakes.\ He also commented on the dis- integration of Chinese society and that many humans are reincarnated as demons; someofthem disguised as monks. organization with the capability to structure and oversee large events under a shared faith in the teach- ings of\·Master Li.\ Prior to Sunday's large event, followers of Falun had openly and quietly limited their activities to group exercise and meditation to park lawns and members' homes. Monday and Tuesday, after the event, the Chinese government seemed to be in the position to deny the event even happened. Government offices were given official orders to maintain silence on the event and government offi- cials refused to comment on it. The reaction of the government underscores the unease felt by the government over large groups af- filiated with any political or reli- gious belief. It was learned after the p.rotests that Chinese Premier Zhu R9ngji had taken an active role behind the scenes. came despite a government ban low Li's teachings, according to an While Falun was founded in 1992, it is one of many schools of qigong, a traditionalChinese prac- tice using meditation and martial While Falun maintains that it do~s not have a hierarchy, Sunday's demonstrations indi- cated an underlying disciplined It is h()ped that the relative peacefulness of the demonstration and the response from the govern- ment proves to be a portend ofin- creased tolerance for differenst po- litical and religious groups. Clinton Hopes to Delay Palestinian D~claration of Statehood .. Arafat expected to Postpone May 4 Deadline; Netanyahu warns of Potential Consequences by Heatlter Campbell Staff Writer In a letter to Y asser Arafat, Presi- dent Clinton promised U.S. help to finalize a Middle East peace plan \within one year.\ Arafatsaid that the letter was \more tl:lan positive.\ The U.S. ishopefulthatthi~ diplo- inaticmovewillprevent Atafat from declaring Palestinian statehood on May4. May 4 is the date that the cur- rent negotiations are scheduled to end. The letter not only states the intent to finalize the peace pian, but also calls fora summit between Is- rael, the U.S., and Palestine. This week, the Palestinian Cen- tral Council is holding a special session on statebood. The Pales- tinian Parliament, the European U11ion, and several Arab countries are urging Arafat and the Palestin- ian Central Council t() not declare state.hood on May 4. If Arafat does declare statehood, Benjamin Netanyahu warns that it wiii ruin the peace process and Israel wiH annex the West Bank and ()ther crucial territory. In regards to Clinton's proJJosed finalization ofa peace plan ~ithin a year, David Bar-lllan, an adwisor ofBenjamin Netanyahu says, \We are opposed to a deadline, any deadline, We believe it is counter• ]>reductive. It makes fruitful ne- gotiations extremely difficult, if not irn possible.\ He also said that Israel would agreeto an extension rather than a deadline. The lsraeli-PLO peace .pmcess has had several landmarks in the pastsix years. In 1993, at a meeting in Oslo, the PLO committed itself to a peaceful resolution, and, in response, Israel agreed to continue negotiations with the PLO as the representative of Palestinians. They also signed the Israeli-Pal- estinian Declaration of Principles (DOP), which outlined self-govern- ment arrangements and economic cooperation. These arrangements included Palestinian self~rule in Gaza and Jericho, empowennent for the West Bank Palestinians, and the election of a Palestinian coun- cil. After signing the DOP, an interim agreement was completed in three stages. The Gaza-Jericho Agree- ment was signed on May 4, I 994, and addressed security arrange- ments, civil affairs, legal matters, and economic relations. The Agreement on Preparatory TransferofPowers and Responsi- bilities was signed on August 29, I 994. It provided for the transfer of power to Palestine in five sepa- rate areas: Education and Culture, Social Welfare, Tourism, Health, and Taxation. September 28, 1995 saw the sign- ing of the third stage, the Israeli- Palestinian Interim Agreement. The Interim Agreement attempted to broaden Palestinian self-govern- ment by creating the Palestinian Council, the same body that met on Tuesday to discuss the possible declaration of statehood. The ere• ation ofthe Palestinian Council al- lowed Palestinians to conducttheir A. tten-ion: All Economics Juniors .. .. ' . . . own interned affairs, thus reducing the tension between Israel and Pal- estine. Now Israel and Palestine are ne- gotiating permanent status. The negot.iations, which deal with Jerusalem, refugees, settlements, security arrangements, borders, relations, and cooperation with neighboring countries, started on MayS, 1996. On October 23, 1998, the Wye River Memorandum was signed between Israel and the PLO. In the Memorandum both sides agreed resume negotiations and make a concentrated effort to reach an agreement by May 4. With ne- gotiations back in progress with U.S. support, a final peace solu- tion could finally be reached for the region. If you plan to do an Economics Senior Thesis in the year 1999-2000,· it is important that you attend the following: SENIOR THESIS INFORMATION MEETING Wednesday~ MAY~~ 7:00 prn~ SS 104 Ifyou oann.ot attend this meeting, you MUSTpick up an Advisor Preference form in SS 212. Ie Is fml:tmtatdtllatyoll pick up and r«urnyour ThesisAdvisol' heferencefor~n &y 'f;YIItdnada.y, May :zzd- • . . Contact: Win25$ Gift Certificate By designing A logo Jordan at lippmanj@union.edu or Adam at Jacobowa@union.edu It doesn't matter what you ·said o~ wore. It does not matter if you were friends,witl1, or:datingyourattacker. A MESSAGE FROM SAlfE .:sPACE I twas not you who actedjl.la}lp~QJ.'t:iately. You are not alofie;~ ·. · · · The~e ate people who are.~ill.t~gl9 help. It's okay to feel depressed,· sc~etland angry. ··.· ,Ju§taon't'giveup.~.· ...•. · ... ·.·.· . ·. Don ~fgive your· attacker the. satisfaction. Don't let him win~ A MESSAGE FROM SAFE SPACE

Fashion Show Fasl The Third Annual Fashion Show of Support l Jen Chick and Josh Mondlick go undercover. waltz's down the runway in her dance outfit. Stephanie Slobotkin & Kate Stefanik stay cool under the shade. move on the runnway at Memorial Chapel. \Dutch\ tries to give President Huil a /ew dane in

Fashioli ShC)w Qinnc.or.bieneis• April29, 1999 • Page 13 Benefiting the Make-A-Wish Foundation cni7n£~e! I! ·Betsy Pekin pushes an amrtm'.l,(O.Jfnn Zandman out of her way, a jew dancing tips during the fimdraiser. runway walk. around as he waits for instructions for his next move. '· ,-'~ ~ -- ,' . . ¥-'· li:-!~..-...':-kt-J~r, The Union College Dance Team warms up the crowd before the show; ' -

. Page 14• April 29, 1999 • Olrot£or.hlensis Stien. ce & Technology . - -- - Sc. ience & Technology . . . The International Space Station byJeffrey Ausfeld Staff Writer The construction of a large in- ternational space station is well on its way. Just this Monday, April26, the Russian-built Service Module, the next major piece of the Interna- tional Space Station, ~as unveiled in Moscow. The Service Module serves as the early cornerstone for the first human habitation of the station and will provide the early stati~nliving quarters, life support system, e1ectrical power distribu- tion, data processing system, flight control system, and propulsion system. The Service Module also provides an on-board communica- tions system that can be contro11ed from Earth. Many .of the systems in the module are not the ones that will be used in the completed space station but will serve as good tem- porary devices. They are calling the US Labora- tory Module the \Centerpiece of the Space Station\ because the US built it and most of the other sec- tional components. Experiments which can only be done in space occur .here, along with other new features of the laboratory. The alu- minum module is 28 feet long and 14 feet in diameter. It has a 20;..inch diameter window which is heated ule is. intended to perform an allto• bital chan~es. on one side .of the center 11l!()dille mated- and remotely-piloted routine There is development in the.qrea segment. docking procedure with the Service of emergency evacuation vehicles_ It has a capacity of24 .raclt loca- A l t h ouglt tions and the abil- t,here is net ity to handle pres- an official surized payloads. It · vehicle til at is currently at the has bee11 de- Kennedy Space cided up().n, Station awaiting its a Russla11 February 2000 capsule will launch aboard the . always be Space Shuttle En- · present t() deavor. The Zarya • . providecrew controlmodulewas · member~> the first compo- with the nent launched for· means t() the International evacuate the Space Station. This s t a t i o n module was de- quickly. signed to provide There .. has: the station's initial · · been signifi- ~- propulsion and cant re~ ~--------------------------------------------~~ power. Although searchiltt{)~ the United States funded tllispar• Module in orbit. vehicle namedtheX-38, The X-38 ticular module, it was Russian- Each of the two solar arrays b- project, according to the project built and launched. Some ()f the cated on the module is35 feet bng manager, has two main goals. He specifics include module dimen- and l1 feet wide. The module's Jc5 said, \The first is to prove that we sions of 41.2 feet long and I 3.5 fuel tanks combined can hold mor-e can build a low-cost crew return feet wide at its widest point . .lt has than 6 tons of propellant. The a~i- vehicle for the Space Stati<>n; tl\le an operational lifetime of at least tude contro I system for the mod~.!1e second, more. general purpose, is 15 years. Its so l·ar arrays <1n<l six includes 24 large steering jets a:.nc to prove that we can bu.ild humilll nickel-cadmium batteries car• pro- 12 small steeringjets. Two large ell\- spacecraft for an order of magn i- vide an average of 3 kilowatts of gines are available for re-boosting tude less cost than ever before.\ electrical power. The Zaryarnod- the spacecraft and making major ()r- The current cost ofthe project is 90 :mi111on fortwQ space crafts as ~opp<>osed to the two billion for 011 e back in the 80's. ''The vehicle~s constructipn remains economical becaus:e ofseveralfactors, The X- 38 l!Se:S a lifting body design al- readyproven and tested in experi- ment<!! vehicles ofthe 1970's.Ad- di~iona:lly, parts of the X~38 can be boug.ht (lver-th.e-counter, using exist~ng technology rather than technol()gy invented from scratdt- a marked difference from past NASA .spacecraft. \It is projected that the spacecraft will be re<le- signedslightly toallow space fligl\lt in non-emergencysituations. This mC'-e ~r less means that they can use it like a car and go pick up ca.r.g() l!ke a pickup truck.\ Ther-e are many more U10dules and components that will be used on the space station, but neither time nor space permits me to talk about them all The space station is a rn~rvelous creation costing bil- lions amd perhaps even trillions of dollars_ This station has the abil- ity to beupgraded over its lifetime, creating the possibility of a large matri\ ()f modutes capable of sus- tainin:g a. farge amount of astro- nauts in a long-term living envi- ronme~t. For more information email allsfeldj@idol.union.edu. Y2K·: Health Care Impacts by Steve Ayers Stcif.!Writer In the near future, a crisis known as Y2K could result from the inabil- ity of computers to recognize the date 2000 correctly. This date could cause malfunctions because some comptlters are designed to read only the last two digits in dates. Due to some of its inherent charac- teristics and lack of planning, the health care industry could be es- pecially vulnerable to Y2K com- puter malfunctions. Although lo- cal health care facilities are taking steps to deal with the problem~ stu- dents should check with hospitals in their hometown to see if they will be prepared. Loc11l hospitals have had to un- dergo a long preparation for Y2K. The Union College health center plans to stock up on supplies. be- fore the tum ofthe New Year, but its computer updates will fall un- der the general college policy for Y2K compatibility. Since classes will not have started at the time, there is no immediate danger from a glitch. Ellis Hospital has been planning for over two years, test- ing the compatibility of all areas of the hospital. In ad.dition to updating the ac- tual computer systems, both medi- cal and nonmedical devices were tested for compatibility. A contin- gency J>]an has been developed for broad system failures, including the 91 1 system. In an interview, Chief Information Officer Ed Rice, seemed confident in these prepa- rations. When asked what would happen if a student arrived at the Emergency Room on New Years Day, he stated, \They would be treated. One way or another we will have the ability to take care fJf a)1y- body who shows up at our front <loor.\ Many aspects ofthe.healtn care industry could beaffected b:iY2K glitches. Hospitals might 11ot he able to access patient rec()tds or work schedules, making it difficult for hospitals to attend to a II of their patients effectively. Ylany medical devices have emboedcled computer chips with date func- tions that could malfunction, :such as devices that are designed to au- tomatically alert users whell they must be re-calibrated. Despite FDA requests, manufacturers have been very reluctant to release ill- formation on compatibility, be- cause doing so could leave them open to legal recourse. · Some factors may be beyo-lld the control of individual hospitals. The failure of the phone s::ystem or the 9I1 system could make it difficult for hospitals to fun-cti()n. In the event of a failure meliical supplies may be difficult to ol>tain because of transportation ]lifO b- lems. The pharmaceutical illdus- try could be especially vulnerable to this because the FDA closely controls it, and expanding pr<Jdiic- tion to meetshortages may n01t be possible. In addition, manyrn.ecli- cations have a limited shelf-life, so that it will be difficult for p:eo)}le and hospitals to stock up on th!Crn. Even ifthe hospitals in the lbcal area are well prepared, thi& ooay n<>t be the case for hospita:ls in students' hometowns. Smaller hospitals and those in the i11ner city may have difficulty updating; their computer systems. The 'Nail Street Journal recently rep<Jrted that 64% of US hospitals had. 110 plans to test their Y2K readiness. \These problems can be expected to worsen as we approach the New • Year. With the excitement of this · New Year,therewillprobablybe.al1 increase in injuries, and it is a[so : likely that there will be a Y2K Bai:Jy Boom. This wilJ increase emergen<ey room traffic in hospitals already under great strain. One should ex- pect a long wait in the emergenc::y room. Some people have already made preparations as they woltld · for a winter storm, storing enough fresh water, food and firewood fol' · several days. Extreme cold coald mean that power outages ha'Ve harsh consequences for people i11 the Northeast. Y2K will have: many lasting ef- fects and is not limited to the change to the year 2000. A tota:loOf over 15 dates have the potential filr causing computer glitches, during · 1999 and 2000. These include4-~- 1999, the 99th dayofthe99th year; which some software programs wilE read as a message to immediately · stop. More problems .may be ere~ ated as computer programmersntsh to update software code. A flood of litigation and complaints could make it difficult to reach customer · service departments. The possibilities for Y2K are very uncertain at this. point, and some people have taken this to an ex- treme .. One Internet Newsgrou:p called ''alt. Y2K,end·of-the-worlcln contains tips on hoarding food and stockpiling ammunition. While tllis . is probably going too far, in my . opinion, a certain amount ofprepa.· ration is advisable. · The Red Cross homepage coil· · tains helpful information, and is · available ~t www .redcross.org/ y2k.html · Come support tOe \State Champ 11 Union Womens' Rugby Team In the first Union Lad! Ruggers Rugby Tournament Sponsored By: Rathskellar Saturday May 1, 199~ *Did you ·1m~w that your club or group oowd reserve tile Ratbskellar for special events Slleh as t'is~~1

BLAINE PAGELS Author e Scholar e Professor • Who is Satan, and what is the evil that he represents? • Why does· the Chr~stian con- cept of Satan differ soradi~ally from the Jewish tra~tionl • What is the origin·of Christian anti-sem.itism? • \The Origia of Satan\ Thursdav.. Ap·· rll; ·29. 7•30·· p m '1, . .. . . , . .• . . • • NINTH ANNUAL CHARLES PROTEUS STEINMETZ SYMPOSIUM May 7• 11 and ~h, 1999 Sl'UDENT CREATIVE, SCHOL...mL Y AND RESEARCH ACHIEVEMENT Six sessi()ns ofconcurrent oral presentations and artistic performances begin at 9:1() a.m. through 6:00 p.m. on Friday, May 7th in the Olin Building, Social Sciences, Steinmetz Hall, Science & Engineering Buildi11g and the Arts Building Followed by a Banquet at 6:30 p.m. in Upper Class Dining Hall for all presenters, p!lfents ofpresenters., sponsors and moderators SESSION I - 9:20 - 10:40 a.m . ...,. Concment Oral Presentations SESSION II - 10:50 a.m. - 12: 10 p.m. - ConctliTent Ora) Presentations SESSION III- Dance Performances- 12:20- 1:50 p.m. Dance Studio, Arts Building SESSION IV - 2:00- 3:20 p;m. - Concurrent Oral Presentatio!ls SESSION V- 3:30-4:50 p,ru. ~Concurrent Oral Presentations Including the Unien College Choir at 3 :3() p.m. Perfonning Arts Studio, Arts Building SESSION VI- 5:00 - 6:00 p~m. --Concurrent Oral Presentati<JIIS POSTER SESSION- Saturday, May gth, 11 :00 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. Nott Memorial THEATER PRODUCTION fiJACK AND JILL\ Friday, May ?'r., Saturday, May 8th, and Sunday, May 9th - 8:00 p;ru. ' ~~ ; I j} Yulman Theater UNION COLLEGE ORCHESTRA \ROMAN11CFAVOR!TES' Friday, May 7 111 - 8:30 p.m. Memr>rial Chapel ART EXHIBITION Arts Building Atrium from May 7th- May 13th {not in credit cards) tntrod11cing the Amarican Expre•s•cncnt Card for Studants. Uve for today .. Sulld .fo.r tomorrow. The American Express Credit Catd for Students l.s e re&O\Irc~ you can depend on. With ba.ne.fits like btg ~ir­ fare $4!1Vings. ftee c:rE.!dit informatbn, and no- annual fee .. it'lt help you get the mc>st from y()\11' $tud&n't years- ~nd ttalp yoiJ build ,a tolld financ:i:al fGundation f()t' th~ ftlture . . II Cants

,, ' Page 1~ ,~ . ·.-::_·_· '· ~ .. . . . . .r> ·· ... ·=·'. Cabaret's Director Diane Sadak by K1mberly R~hback A&E Editor Guest director and clloreogra~ pher Diane Sadak is an AEA pro- fessional actor, directe>r and 'the- atre arts educator who \viii be join- ing the performing arts faculty of Towson University ,in Baltimore, MD this fall. She is cu:rrently the guest director and clloreegrapher for the Union Theater Department's producthn of Caba- ret. Sada k' ~' casting ofthe show has been or much controversy recently. She has been flooded with com- plaints from the student body and parents on account of her decision to cast from the community. Those who are involved in the produc- tion are quite satisfied with the op- portunity to work with outsiders. Junior Karena Cronin sa.id, \I think that it's great. I get torneet a whole bunch of people from all over the area of all different ages and learn from them.\ Sadak brings a refreshing new directing style to the Yulman. Her call backs were not the standard that is expected ofUnim. She held call backs for four hours and ex- plored movement, dance, song, and text with the entire group. She plays games with the cast to de- velopment movemeni skills. She encourages individual exploration of text and choreography. Quite frankly, her unique appr<Jach to di- recting has been received by the cast as exceptionally brilliant. \Re- hearsals are so much fun,\ said sophomore Coll~en Br()Wll. Sadak enjoys a collective style of direct- ing. \The brains ofthirty people .are undoubtedly going to produce a better outcome than one brain alone,\ says Sadak of her group directing. Born and raised in Clifton Park, New York, Ms. Sadak is a 1981 graduate of Shenendehowa as well as a Union College alum-. nae class of 1 985. Ms. Sadak recently rPh>rn••ri from Seoul, Korea, where she spent a year as Vis- iting Professor· of Acting and Voice atthe Korean National University Arts. After-receiving an MFA in Directing from Florida State University, Ms. Sadak 'Spent sev~ era) years in California, where she worked at nu- merous theatre compa- nies as an actor and di- rector, as well as being staff artist with the Cali- fornia Playwrights Project. She was awarded two years of gra11t funding as an artist~in-residence by the California Arts Council and was on the Executive Board of the Actors Alliance of San Diego(AASD) forthree years. During her ten~ titled \It's Not Funny, I'm Only Laughing\ which was produced at the Sushi Performance Gallery .in San Diego for the first Actors Fes- tival. In addition toherwerk on stage, ure with AASD, she sat L- __ _.;;;......;: on the steering commit- tee to create an annual actor-gen- erated theatre festival for the San Diego arts community, and was the festival's Director of Public Rela- tions for its first three years. Ms. Sadak wrote, directed and per- formed in a one .. woman show en- Ms. Sadak has acted in .industrial videos,. directed for both the lTV network and KPBS in California, and served as a television panel is~ . and voice-over actor in Seoul,. Ko- rea. M~. Sadak' s recent work has been focused on the training meth- odologies of Japanese director Tadashi Suzuki and American di- rector and acting theorist Anne Bogart. She has trained extensively with Ms. Bogart's SITI Company, and has taught these movement techniques in professional work- shops in California, and as a visit,.. ing artist ~t Union College .. Current teaching also includes team-taught workshops with Bany Smith entitled ''The Actor Em,pow- ered•' atLittlePondArtist's Retreat in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. Ms. Sada:k currently resides in Schenectady with her .partner and Union C()Jlege.profess&r oftheatre Barry K. Smith. They have two children, Noel Kendall, age.d three years, and Sage Noelle, aged four months. Sadak has been w<Jtking long hours at the Yulrnan~ rehearsing four to five hours anightsixnights a week with the cast and countless additional hours working on vari- ous production aspects of the show. She convincedthe depart• ment to take out all ofthe seating in the theater to be replaced w~th round tables and chairs to create environmental theater that works with the atmosphere of the Kit Kat Klub. This was a major victory. Diane is a woman with a vision. She has taken on a task that many would run from. She has created a working environmenttlt&t is \fun.\ The cast and crew have had noth- ing but wonderful comments about this talented young W<Jman. A&E wishes Diane the best of luck in her new locat:i()n. As the A&E Editor I would also like to thank her for her tremendous cQn- tributiQns to the campus and to the theater. She has graced the Yulma11 for the second time in its history, with the presence of a femate director. She has brought new energy, tech- niques, and humans to the theate~· that would not otherwise have come. Cabaret promises t<> be a bril- liant piece, Congr.atulations to the cast and crew and best of luck in this production. I Can't Believe l'01 Not Butter • ' • ' ~ > • & • • • by Deric Hanington StqjfWriter Well, I got some E-mail finally! Unfortunately, itsaidthat I should focus m<lre on A&E than qn ram- bling aimlessly. I' dtell you who it was from, but he unfcrillnately has nothing to do with Arts and/or En- tertainment... Scrry. lfClllyoneelse has an cpi11ion on anything, feel free to send along y()ur fan/hate/ obsess.ive stalker E-mail to SlapyMcGee@aol.com, So, the lineup for Woodstock 99 has been announced. Anyone else notice how close it comes to being the exact same lineup as the one five years ago? I for onereal1y hope this doesn't become a event that takes place every five years, be- cause it's bastardizi11g the good name of Woodstock, tllat lovable birdie .fr()m the Peanuts C()mic strip. My thought, being someone who has seen the (insert sarcasm here) amazingly large crowds of people that have previ()usly been to shows at the Y11lrnan, is a thought where ab<Jut half the people;s reaction to last week's front page article was \Hey ... we have a theater? Isn't that the build- ing 1 pass on my way to Gepitto's?\ I am in Cabaret this term, so I may be a hit biased when I say that this is going to be the most significant thing in history since the big bang. No, I'm not talking about what happened last weekend when your friend got drunk, but rather the big bang that started the universe ... but then again, like I said, I might be bi- ased. I know that everyone, as people, have a .primal instinct to enjoy watching people in pain. That's why we watch boxing, and just about anything on the WB (welL. the masochists do at least). So do your friends a favor this week, OK? When they're around, \accidentally\ stuff your hand into a t<Jaster and pull the le- ver down. Then proceed to yell andscream,\MYHAND! IT'SSO HOT IT'S COOL!\ (An abstract Pop-tarts reference I hope every- one \gets/' or else ... boy; I'm gonna look more stupid than nor- mal) Believe me, everyone in the room should be highly entertained, and then we 'U all laugh together on our way to the hospital. Oh, by the way, for anyone that cares {that should be like tw() of you), Iron Maiden announced a reunion with former lead singer Bruce Dickinson. What does this mean to the rest of you?· A little- lesstltan anything at all. Mounte- banks' lmprov troupe. is going through a rigorous training period. \Why?\ (You ask yourself. But you did it out now eVeryone is looking at you. You confidently raise your body out of your chair and beat up the closest seven- limbed mammal. Then people leave you alone, because they a.JJ fear you.) Well, it's because ... I can't tell you. See, they're so good at irnprcving, that even they don't quite know what they're doing. However, when they do perfonn, I can personally guarantee (hey, it's a free show, I'll even make it a money back guarantee) that the show will be better than putting wedges ofcheese in between your toes ... that is, unless you like.that ]dnd of stuff, in that case, probably nothing at all. (:Yen really cpmes close to the cheesy toes thing: I mean, you live your existence hop- ing some day that they create cheese wedges in the shape ofthe space between your toes, so then, it• s so much simpler then mashing it in there with the mal- let you:ve been using. Whoa,that one got away from me. That's OK, though, I have the reigns of this column tightly gripped in between my teeth; and will dragthe bloody carcass of a column back to A& E. So ... Any- one hear whatBea Authur has been up to lately?' No? Me either~ I just thought it would have been a .great conversation piece though. I mean, does anyone know where any ofthe\golden girls\ really are? I just keep my fingers crossed that none of them turned to prostitu- tion, because ... man, there's nota sadder sight on the planet than seeing Betty White's pimp getting mad at her, because she didn't bring in enough cash the previous week. Speaking of pimps ... wait no ... forget it. . . Th\)y won ,t let me ad,. vertisehere in the ConcQrdy with- out paying for it. Just words of warning •... don't combine Nestle Quick .and delicious Pe!>'si product. They tend to have so11:re sort of freaky chemicalreactio11 •.. It leaves you feeling like you just drank Moxie, and then you'llneed some Pepto-Bizmol to calm that stomach; Maybe it's just how you sleep, maybe you need a Craftmatic 2 ad• justable bed (what's that you say? I killed the joke of the advertise- ments already? Oh; I see. Well then, I'll stop). Judging by the looks in your eyes, I'd say that you ba:ven 'tread the article; but just skimmed it, be- cause, well ... you'restiJ1.here. So, I'm going to remove tile fishhook of my column from your mouth for another week, but I have a few words ofwisdom first. They were said to me by an old wise man ... either that or some homeless drunk guy, it's tough to tell them apart sometimes. Those woJ\dS were: ''HEY! Can you spare some change'?\ At least, that's what I think he said, I was too busy walk- ing by him at the time(() care! 1 j j I 1

\'--··- -·' \ .... _ ·~--~ ' -~ ... -- ... \ ........ ,..,.,. ..... , ..... .__.,._ ..._ ~ .... ----..., -· j ·~ _ • ..,. ·- .. ' ~ •• ----~ -· '-- ·-- ..... ···-· ...... - .. -- .... ·- .. -- ... Oloncnrmensis • April 29, 1999 • Pag(.; \f7 1.\' ·..... . . . ' . . . . . . . . . \ . . . Verdt· s Pro Requ1e01 Jack and Jill Opens May 6 Courtesy of Aibany Pro Musica For the Capital Region and sur- rounoing. communities, the week- end ofApril30 atl,d May 1 will be one of Italian glory! Following Pavarotti at the Pepsi Arena, the weekend's Italian festivities culmi· nates with a performance of Guiseppe Verdi's Messa da Re· quiem at the Cathedraf of the Im- maculate Conception on Saturday, May 1st at 8:00 PM, the official launch of Albany Pro Musica's AP Masterworks Project presented. with the College of Saint Rose Mas- terworks Chorale and Siena Col- lege Music Series. The program will also include the \Regina coeli\ from the opera Cavalier ia Rusticana, a short piece for chorus !lrtd soprano. The concert will be under the direction of maestro David Griggs.-Janower, Albany Pro Musica's Artistic Di- rector and founding conductor. Albany Pro Musica's 1998-1999 season ends with a great begin- n,ing, the APMasterworks Project. The region's premier choral group initiates this biennial series of pre- senting large choral masterpieces, offering the opportunity for sing- ers and audiences the chance to perform and attend concerts of choral works on the grandest of scales. \As long as I've been in town there has. been a dearth ofthe ma- jor choral works,\ says Griggs- Janower, \but the logistical require- ments of presenting large works sucp as the_ Verdi, B,rahms, or Berlioz \Requiems\ or Orffs \Cannina Burana\- a 200 voice · chorus, operatic soloists, a fuUor- Director Chris Welsch and his chestra, and appropriate venue- by Kimberly Rohback stellar cast have been putting in are normally out of reach of any A&E Editor long hours in the Actor's Theater oneofthearea'smanychoruses.\ Jackand Jill, a student run insideoftheYulrnan,anditappears· His answer was to initiate a joint · production, will be opening May 6, their effmis are paying off. Jack venture led by Alba11y ProMusica and run untilthe ninth. lt has been ancl Jill is a romance by Jane that could take on such works, the a project that has developed over Martin. The advertising committee, A PMasterworks project. two terms. The rehearsal process which is the cast and production pe()ple who find romantic drama \sappy.\ It is a serious theatrical accomplishment, for extremely dedicated students. Admission is free, so please go and support free student theater, or simply support student theater in general There will be more about this production in next week's issue of Concordiensis. Although S.iena' s underwriting has been a long one. The Cfew has crew, have informed me that it is a enables Albany Pra Musicato use been busy loading i.n the set. playfor\everyone.\This includes its resources to hire an orchestra r.---~--~-----~~--~------iiBiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii*iilillliii-iiBiiiBiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiii of professional players fiom the Capital Regi<Jn and beyond, the 51 piece orchestra is one of the larg- . ' est and most e:x:pensi:ve orchestras . • to be engaged by Albany Pro · Musica. To help relieve theburden ofthe exp.ense ·Of tbe APMasterw()rlcs Project, Albany Pro Musica has approached the business commu- nity with success. Support has been gratefully ~ee.cei ved by . Fenimore Asset Management, be. ofCobleskiU; Hannay Reels, Inc. of Westerlo; the Omni Albany · H()tel; Capital District Business Review; Mehawk Paper Mills,. Inc.; Stewart's Shops; Urback, • Kahn, lk WerlinPC; Chase Man-· lrattan Bank; Cooper, Erv.ing, Sav. . age, Nolan & Heller LLP;: Mc:Namee, Lochner, Titus& Will- . • iams PC; andthe Music Studio. Admission for the Verdi Re- quiem is $20.00. Discounted tidc- ets are available for seniors and students at $15.00 and$10.00 re- spectively. Capital Rep's FiveStar Club members can purchase tick.- . ets itt the door for $5 .()0 upon pre- sentation of the Club J.D. card. Tickets may be purchased in ad- , 'VlJll,.<:e from chorus members er ~Y. • . callthg csi8)273-65to. . . . ·_ · .. · Wesftpboo s to Moms ~very;whue! Mathtr' s 'Day ~ 9iay 9 . ,'Ifte Open t!Joor ~oo store 128 Jag St 346·27191Jtn1111town Sckntctaig 2nd Annu~:LI UNION COLLEGE •e _A,/1=:•<> _A_ DUCK \._, ··-· ... --~/ : t6._)be~CI-r' the Seni-or C~s~ / ·-. ·' \'\ ! I \....... _.,/-' Saturday, l\llay ~~-:: 1~9Q> 4 p.1 .-. .. -- ...Jackson'~'--~~n ( · ~; ~Z)- ----..._ Buy a Duck - -- $2 'for one o·r·$5 \for thr~e ............. Prizes include: 2 Night: Gelawway to the MlrrQr Lake Inn, Lake Placid (courtesy of\ AAA Trav!l!ll) 2 Tickets to #The King and I\ (co\\rtesy or Proctor•s Theatre) 2 Adult Lift Tickets to Ca.tartlo~nt Ski Area (eourtesy of Ca.tamouA1 Mountain) .......... 5 lb. Hr;:~rshey~s Milk Chot;;ofate Bar(court~sy Of the Hershey Corporation) Autographed Rosie O'·Donnell Taaking Doll (courtesy of the Rosie o·oonnell Show) Autograph~d Vnion College Football (courtesy of the Union College Football team) Autographed Union College Ice Hoc:k•Y Stick <courtesy of the Hc>c:key tearn) $100.00 Open Door Bookstore Gift Certificate (courtesy of Open Door Bookstore) Tc;.ugh Trav~1er ••super Padre•• Backpack (c<;>urte$y of\ Tough Travef9r) ~--- Gi., Certificate for two to the Butcher Block -Restaurant (courtesy of\ the Butch-er Block) Y2 hour Massage at Shangri ... La Salon (courtesy of Shangri - La Salon) Variety of' Unfon College Merchandise (court$sy of Union College Bookstore) PLUS MANY OTHERS ! I / • ....,. . ..,.,t.delay.~.Adopt ycu..Jrs today bef'ore they all float avvay!! __________ ,... _______________ ,.. _________ ...., ____ ._._._...,_ ..... ~-----------....----\\!l\----..----------- .... _ _......,._ .. ~--------------------------- YOU DO NOT NEeD TO BE P'RES:EN.T TO CLAIM YOUR PRIZE. PLEASE RETURN BOttOM PORT.ON ALONG WITH PAYMENT {CHECK.STO BE MADE PAYABLE TO UNION COLLEGE) ANi> MAIL TO: ]ON ZANDMAN '99 C/O OFFICE OF ANNUAL GIVING- 807 Union Street- Schenectady, NV 12308 ~anne ~~--~----------~-------------------------- Phone # (...._._..___) _____________ ___ #of Ducks...._.__ ______ ahd your DUCK'S NAME(S) ---------...------~~ a~.-~estions?- please cal:& ext. 6174 ....

.. 18 Women's Lax Cruising Toward Playoff Birth After an Amazing Season, Dutchwomen Capture First UCAA Title by David Brooks Editor-in-Chiiif On Saturday, the Dutchwomen took on R()chester for what many considered the title for the UCAA. However, Union first had to take on New Paltz. After traveling down the Thruway, the Dutchwomen were clearly ready to pol ish ap their skills for the Rochester game. From the beginning, Union had the fire and intensity that has carried them this far. At the hall~ Union held a commandi11g 14-0 ·lead. The sec- ond halfw()uld be the same story, as the Dutchwomen cruised to an impressive21-1 victory. Union spread out the scoring spree as sophomore Margaret Merriam had three goals, freshman Tara Ilsleyadded three. freshman Jane Kaplan chipped in two, senior captain Sara Moss found the back of the net four times and league scoring leader Abby Harris ended the day with three goals and an assist. Union's goaltenders, Maura Woessner and Michelle Morin, faced just five shots on the day. \We played a phenomenal game,\ said coach Bevelander. Moss added, \It was a good warm-up for the Rochester game.\ Fresh off Thursday's win, the Dutchwomen would not let up against Rochester. With tire in their eyes, Union trample<! Rochester's hopes of a UCAA title with a 14-4 victory. \We were physically and emotionally ready for Rochester. Our hustle and intensity was out- standing. It was an impressive game.\ Senior Shoko Okado won 15 of I 9 face-offoS and added a pair goals. Moss took control the scoring with six goals, while Harris had three. \We've been waiting for this game for weeks. We were ready.\ Union held a 24-12 shot ad- vantage as Woessner stopped eight shots. Moss continued, \They could only sit and watch us win.\ On Monday, ~m----~ the women trav- eled to Hamilton Seni(}t Sara Moss scores from just outside the ready for St. Lawrence. Yesterday, Dutch women · host.tld St. Lawrence in the opening round of the New York State W otnen ''S Collegiate 'Athletic Conference championship. The , .,..,,,,.,·-finals and finals .~ plC~yed this week- at Nazareth Col- lege in Rochester. Union is ranked third in the tournament, while William Smith is first, Cortland second, Ithaca fo11rth, Roches- ter fifth, St. Lawrence .sixth, Hartwick sev- entll, and Hamilton . she energized her ail- team, BeveJander said, \I gave them Beanie Babies.\ Ho)}efully the Beanie Bahies were enough for the Dutchwomen to beat St. Lawrence. The Dutchwome11 give Union its------------------------beat the Saints 12-6 regular season. Hamilton stood at 4-l in the UCAA and Union was 5-0. A win would crease. first ever UCAA title, and a loss wins with 12, eclipsing last year's two weeks ago, but as Sarah Moss would give the trophy to Hamilton. mark of 11. \We were sick, tired said, \This game means something \We were beaten up. Six girls were and exhausted,\ said Moss. \ft different then two weeks ago. sick and you simply can't be up al~ was our fourth gameinaweekand There're out to get revenge. I'm thetime,\saidBevelander. we weren't on our game.'' notgoingtoletmyiJnionlacrosse Union held a 7-4 halftime lead, Bevelander noted, \Even after the career end with a loss.\ but couldn't pull away from title, they collapsed on the bus. Hamilton. Woessner stopped twCJ They were all tired.\ Moss, Har- shots in the final minute to give ris, and Merriam each had two Union an I 1-9 victory. The w i11 goals in the game. gave Union their first UCAA title The team had to pull together ever and also a record number ()f again, regain the intensity and get TO THE POINT Sarah Moss was named the '~UCAA player ()fthe Week\ with 12 goals in three games. Tara Ilesly, Shoko Okado, Al>by Harris, Mar- garet Merriam, and Maura Woessner were 11arned to ~'UCAA Honor Roll\ Thanks, ·seniors, for a history making season: Sarab Moss S . ~L~ ·. ~~'7-. . . l':t6'1~:0 ' .. _ ' . '• ' . - .. :~:~,.~:.'·.:3'' :..1.,1-;.;·· ~~. u.v . . ~ ... . . M . ··'a·· ·,·u·',.,···.,r· ··a'· .· . ..~ ··- :'' ·-.: _,:· ,• ,-. • • • ' I w~;ssner The men~slacros.se · team had the . weekend off. Hugh· . . . . Meyer's article will ·return next week · Coach Linda Bevelander talks to her team during halftime of the Rochester game on Saturday. with thefinal recap of the season. ·

s, .. . ·. -:~,:· .. . .. -.:·· .... Track & Field Competes at RPI Invitational for ~tates. would want to take part in this , .. by Peter Flynn Sta/JW:riter This week, men's and women's track competed at RPI again in an invitational meet. Hartwick College, Vassar College, Marist College, Renselear and .Indica Ru~ming Club were the other teams. It was a .non-scoring meet and the last chance for athletes to qualify The first race ofthe day was the event isbeyonclrne. Nonetheless, 3000tn steeplechase. Freshman Cenley shows a lot of potential in Matt Conley made il debut this race and could be· amo11g the perfennance in this race in a time state's best in the years t<> C()me. af 10:53. For tltose of you who Both Melissa Marusewicz and don't know, this race involves Carolyn Ciestowski were field running 1.86rniles around a track, event winners. Matusewicz won whilejumpingover large wooden both the triple (l0.06m} and :tong barriers, one of which has a seven- ( 4.6I:m) jumps while Ciesl<lwski foot water pit after it. Why anyone took the discus (32. H:)m~. After beingthe star quatterback in a game of toucll football with the local fourth traders•, Steve Schuler ran the 800rn ,In 2:()3..4. Later he was se~n watc.bin,g Dawson's Creek and marveling about the wonders of cable TV. Kamal Tyson ran a three~ second personal best time in the 809m with a 2:36.7, Her teamtnate, Renee Rinaldi, \blanked\the c<Jmpetition in the lOOmhighhurdles, wii111ing in a time of20.06. In the men's 4x400mrelay,.the first three RPI runners <Jpened up a 20m lead on Union. However, Atsu Kaneko made R:PI's anchor look silly. Kaneko turned on the afterburners, tore past the RPI runner and finished 2()m ahead of him with a split of5L6. This type of win isreflective oftheCarb<>ne-· Sherwood crew victory last weekend. Sophomore Jeff Morse comes down the stretch during the 800m race last week at Williams. There have been a number of Union athletes wh<J have made great strides this season in their respective events. Here are some ofthe athletes, their events and the improvements: JeffMorse, l500m, 17 seconds; Shawn Shopmeyer, shot put, 0.85m; Megan Lee, 400m, 2seconds;Carrie Welch, 1500m, 7 seconds; ICris narlington. tripl~ jump, 0.26m; Brendan. Carney, long jump, 0,4\)'Jn; Glenna Malcolm, 3000m, 33 seconds; Alex Podgomy, 1 ~OOrn, 6 seconds; John Houghtoll,400m, 5 seconds; John Neiman, fl()()lm, 3 seconds; A sad Cltoudhry, 20()m, 1.04 seconds; Corey Math. is, lOOOOm, 8 minutes; Stepha11 E<:.~goato, pole vault, 6 .inches; l\ihtrieMauret, 3000m, 34 seconds; La:.u:ra Kelmanovich, goom, 16 sec:~nds; Amy Slabich, lOOOm,. :J 4- seconds; Chris Strohsanl, 4~0m, 1.1 seconds. Slabich a11d :Strohsahl both feel that it is th<J presence of peanut butter in their diets that has contri b11te<l to their steady irnproveme11t Here ~re the results: Wom~11's: Discus 1. Carolyn Cieslowski32.10m l500m 4.Amy Slabich 5:1 L4- 8.. Marie Maurer 5:32.6 9.Caj:l'ie Welch6:28.8 800m 3.Karnal T)'S.()I12:36.76.Megan Lee 2:45.6 7.Al~ksandra Podgorny 2:58.6 8.Laur11:Kelmanovich 3:04.8 3000•m 5. Amy Slabich 11:35.3 8.MarieMauer 12:02.0 LongJump 1.MelissaN:atusewicz4.61 Triple Jump l;Melis-saMatusewicz 10.06 High llu:rdles l.ReneeRinaldi 20.06 l«J()m2.RinaJcli l5,65000m Glenna Makolm21:5 1.8 4:x400m (Tyson, Lee, Slabich;,. Maurer) 4:41.4 Me11':s: Sltot Put 4.Silawn Shopmyer I2.35m Javelin 7. Sltopmyer 36.35m Pole Vault 4.Stefan Bagnato Loog Jump 5.Prisco 6, 18m Triple Jump 2.Darlingt()n 12.23m High Jump l.Darlington 5'6\ 1500m 4.Jeff Morse 4:19.3 8.Corey Mathis 5:23.7 400m 2.Chris Strobsahl 52.8 S.Jerald Wbitington 57.2 lOOm 4.Atsu Ka11eko 11.6 7.Asad Choudhry 1'2.5 800m 5 .Steve Schuler2:03.4 II,Jon Nieman 2:06.3 l3.Matt Conley 209.7 15.John Houghton 2:1 I .4 200m 3.Kaneko 23.65 6.Dave Martin 25.64 7.Wbittington 26.26 S.Cboudbry 28.06 3000m Steeplechase 4:Conley 10:53 .5 5000m !.Flynn 15:25.3 ,Jx.400 2.. (Morse, Whittington, Nieman, Kaneko) 3:43.1 . Men's Rugby Unable to Repeat at State Championships by Stephen Flaherty Staff Writer The Union Men's Rugby club traveJed to Oswego on the shores of Lake Ontario to defend their Up- state Championship title. The defending champs got a good night's sleep and made it to the field wen bef<J.re their first round match against Plattsburgh State. The Dutchmen were nervous in their first game, and the size of the Plattsburgh team took Union by surprise. Plattsburgh came out strong and scored a try about five minutes into play, yet Union kept their heads up and the defense of David Doser and Derek McCowan allowed Union to revamp some of their rn istakes. Harvey Shepard did a magnifi- cent job of recovering lost balls and saved U11ion a few times when the ball was thrown away. Even with the team showing great individual efforts, they were flatfooted and nervous, Plattsburgh rolled an- other try into the zone before ·half time, making the sc~,>re 12-0 in their favor. The second half started on a fluke play that allowed Plattsburgh to score in the first few rn inutes; rookie aggressiveness matched with slim knowledge ofthe game caused a few penalties. Yet, with 10 minutes remaining in the abbreviated tournament game, the Dutchmen began to pick it up. A succession of great crashes by Mario Cruz and Ryan Martinson brought the ba11 deep into the Plattsburgh zone, and a quick try by Steve Flaherty made the score 17-5. The Dutchmen were fired up and started to roll down the field. The Dutchmen tookthe ball deep into the Plattsburgh zone, and off a lineout they drove Ron Rushneck toward the try zone. They were stopped short by only a few inches, but a strong crash by Nick Campbell brought an- other score to the Union team. With the score at 17-10 and only a few seconds left on the clock, Union drove the full length ofthe field with great efforts by Nemo Bolin and Mike Pingpank. The baH was slowly being · · ···· · pushed in when the whistleblewthegame ,. dead. Union was shat- tered by the loss, but realized that they started out too slow. They had to for their .next against State. After a mn~e-r1om lay over, they took field with a fresh rebels by beating them in this game. The Dutchmen came out strong and the fresh feet of Ami Blumenthal, Peter 'Melluish, and Tom Burke, propelled the Dutch- men forward. The rebels scored first off of a smart tun by their swift wing. The Dutchmen, howe-ver~ soon scored their own try on a heads up play by rookie wing Jeff Lasker. The score at halftime was 7-5 in favor of the Rebels, but the Dutchmen tluew in some new legs to try and brin.g home the victory. JtJstin Sh er 111oved in at wing and made some ()lltstanding tackles to hold back Oneonta, and senior Sibu Jinllarardthanan added ag- gressiveness a11d determination to the Unior1 side. Oneonta was able to score twice however bef()re the new team was able to get fO><eused on the game as a whole. Witll the score at 17~5, Union decid;ed to step it up and ~' ' - rolled to the other end of the field with solid runs by AI Hebert, and an eventual penalty try awarded to Will Johnso!l. The clock ran out though once again, however ,just a few minutes too early for the liking of the Union men, with a final match score of 17- 10 again. Wait until next year as the MatLling Dutchmen bring back three Juniors, nine sophomores, and three freshman who have started a number of A side games. wanted to avenge an At the championship on Satiirt:lay, Se11ior Ad,r:m Deutsch tries to make a move, w.hile sophomore early season loss to the __________ _..._.. ___ ..:D:...:av.:.;_,id;;..· ..._D..:.o~ ..... e_r_c_le...,a_rs_ .. _th_.e_l_Vay..::..::.fi_o_r_h_im_. ______________ _ \'

Sports .. QJ:nncnrbiemsis • April 29, 19~9 • P~ge 20 After Much R&R, Tennis Heads Back To Courts by MarkShemel Staff Writer The Union Colleg.e Men's Tennis Team has had a very q11iet week. Two out of the last three matches against RPI and Oneonta were cancelled due to rain. The third match against the undefeated and undoubtedly best team in the conference, Vassar, was a loss. Saturday's match against Vassar produced the results that were·ex- pected. Union lost every match. except for the third doubles match where freshman Adam Feldman and sophomore Matt Elia.defeated their opponents 8-4. The unex- pected third doubles success tainted the flawless doubles record of Vassar, but had no effect on the outcome. The Union singles matches did not even come close, with the exception of the sixth singles match played by freshman John Betjemann who split sets be- fore losing to his opponent. The absence of starting freshman Mark Shemel and Junior Josh Winograd did not make itany easier. When asked about the loss to Vassa:r, many of the players did not seem discouraged. In fact, they seemed rather happy that they did not ·let Vassar leave thinking that they completely dusted the team. The Union Tennis Team, plagued with injuries and sickness, has not had the season that was hoped for. The team has, however, taken a big step up the ladder from last year's pitiful season, marked by many losses. \One cannot fly into flying. He must first learn to stand and walk.\ During this sea- son, the men's tennis team took their stand and began to walk, but did not quite reach flying. But the team, made up mostly of younger players, will mature and grow stronger to a po irtt where they may one day Hy and soar to the top of the ladder. The team ''s general attitude re- mains positive as they prepare to finish th.e 'last few matches of tile ·season against Hamilton, Hartwick, and New Paltz. Freshman John Betjemann vollies aro'!lnd with another Union teammate this week to sharpen-up his ground.stokes. Monday/ Softball Sig Phi \S. --Chi Psi· Abbreviated Sch·edule · .. - Kappa Sig w~ lOChi AO \B. Phi Sig Phi Iota Alpha \6. Sig Chi· AEPi \6. Phi ~t Psi U \S. FIJI Tuesday/ Volleyball Psi U vs. Phi Slg Chi Psi vs Phi Delt TDChi vs. AD AEPi vs Sig Chi Phi lota ~lpha vs Kappa Sig Sig. Phi vs. FIJI ' Ultim--ate Frisbe.e/ Panh:el . ' . Delta Gamma w. Tri-Delt · Winner vs. Gamma phi \·\\ Wednesday/ Ultimate Frisbee. Chi Psi vs. Phi Slg FIJI VS .. AD . ·• - AE:flhf.X~S.~;:;$i·g:.·~ni · rocf:l,~:v$:·.~nJt-~$1t·· · ., ..... . Pan~hel E·eltb:aJl .· ·· ·· Tri-Delt vs. oetta-·Ga~ma :; . ·. ' =· ·_ ·. · -_,. - _;;, . : : . . . :-··' -._.;.. . . ~f~. ~~ ~;-~-~ ::: ·. ;~ ·. ~~~~ ';-~·~~~ w.n.nervs. Gamooa.P~i.- ··. · ,; ·· - .... Thursday/.Frisbee, SoftballaJtd Volleyball Rounds 2 &3 A OiPsi PtiSg B SigAl PsiU E AlP's leta Softball D Pfi Oft ~-'-------'--'- 1'l:.l:n F AEFti. ~Sig _ _.__,.... .. ·~- ~-·- ~- ........ - --.. ~~~'-'\'--..._ ___ Sig Oi A Phi 031t Phi leta B AEPhi 1CCt1 AD FIJI E A A1i0elt Pll.lota B PEPhi TCChi e Frisbee c KawaSig r-,____,..-::01i Psi D Phi Sig .___..._ Sig Phi F Sig01i ~--~-_,_.;.--Psi u Tug of War c v~s r-__,..__,_-~ ~ g ali Psi ~-,.-- ______ _ D A1i Sig SigPhi F SigOll t---o-----Psi u s;g·Phlvs~-·f;lsl:ou ·.-·--.·., . . .,·....... . .... Phit~~g:&\~';: , ~~~;;•fi~~(·O.e $~Jt~dJUe? . .Call Steve Tountas X560S .'•. . , ... -, -- - ··,· ··-· -_.···-., .. ;,_~-----:-~--~-~:----, ·- .. ;···'. --. ·.' ,,' -·. ' . .· .. / .

· P~ge20 .. rts ~' •• ··:. ';·, -~ ... '. . Sports· C!hntcnrbieu5is • April 2(), 1999 • Pag~ 21 Softball Doing All Tbey Can For Playoff Spot by Brian Terlinsky Sport~ Editor The Union softbalUeam has•cme thing in mind for the remainder of th~ seas()n: winning and maldng the playoffs. If all goes well, Union needs to win the rest oftheir games to clinch the UCAA division title and reach the postseason tourna- ment and the State Tournament. This was definitely a long and tiring past week for Union softball, as they played a total of eight games in six days and fortunately came aut victorious in six ofth~se . eight games. And for a second straight week, many players fr<lm Union have won UCAA honors and continue to lead the overall league in personal team statistics. Once again, sophomore pitcher Meg Crowley was n&med UCAA \Pitcher of the Week,\ as she pitched 21 consecutive scoreless innings, winningherlast five starts this past week. Melinda Colon was named '~Rookie ofthe Week\ for a second time, as she had eight hits at 20 .at bats, while scoring six runs. Sophomore Julie Cardettino made her 1999 ~ebut as the UCAA \Player ofthe Week,\ as Julie had ll hits this past week,. While sc()r- ing seven mns, and only commit- ting one error in the field. In the last week, Union played in four doubleheaders, including ones against RPI, New Paltz, Skidmore and make~up games agalnst Ut-ica, all last week. rn the RPI game, Union would split the two game series~ winning the first game, 3-0, .and then falling in the second, 3.,2. Meg Crowley started the first game, as she again pitched a shutout for Union, while only giving up two hits all game. Crow ley cutllently still maitains an ERA ofabout 1.45. Melinda Colon began the pressure early in the first inning, as she smashed a triple d()wn the left field line. In the sec• ond inning, Union would reach the scoreboard with a single from Sa- rah Cardullo, as did Tara McManus, who drove in a run in the sixth, to give Union the secure l'ead for the win. However, in the second game, Union blew the lead in the second inning, as the game was close untjl RPI took the 'lead late in the game to beat Union. In the next two doubleheaders, Union would have no trouble with their opponents. New Paltz was 110 match for Union last Thursday, as the Dutch women won both games, 5-4, and9-3. Crowley tried to con- tinue her streak of scoreless pitched innings t(} 21, but was put to the test in the seventh inning, as New Paltz made it home three times. But a two-run triple from TarynSamolandaRBI single from Julie Cardettino, guaranteeda win brUnion. ln the second game, Union struck fast, scoring six runs in the first three innings. Pitching for Union was freshman Sarah Johnston, who received her sixth win of.the year., while also complet- ing her first gameoftheyear. Fresh- man Audrey Brenan helped the team, as slle connected with t\vo RBI singles. On Saturday, Union traveled to Saratoga Springsto take on a some- what challenging Skidmore team. Nevertheless, this wasallamiscon- ception, as Union crushed Skidmore in both games, 18-2 and ua . The younger players again stepped-up for the teams, as Melinda Colon and Julie Cardettino both had three hits. A !though Union trailed early in thegame, the Dutchwornen blasted hits in the second a11d third innings, scoring eight runs in each. In the second .game, Crowley got her eighth win of the season, as the team had a total of l3 hits during the game. Taryn Sam()lalso slammed a three- mn homert~nfor Union. On Monday and Tuesday, Union split their doubleheader games, toboth Utica(2•5, W-I) and Oneonta(6-7, 12-6). Thisweekend is very important for the team, as they must win against Russell Sage today and then Rochester to find a spot inthe postseason tour- naments. Freshman Audrey Brennan makes the play to first on a ground ball. UCAA Standings Team W -l-T PTs W -L·T ·.Union s-1 ~o '1'5. 19-7 ·Cl' RPI 5-1-0 15 18-12-1 Skidmore 2-2-0 6 12-18--0 Rochester 0-8-0 0 3-1 8 ·0: Hamilton NA Baseball Still in Hunt For Playoff Rights by Rory Stern Staff Writer The Union College Baseballteam faced another busy week of action. The team ended up going 2-4, leav- ing their conference standing at 5- 6 artd their overall record at 8-20. The team is not yet out of.the playoff race, but their fate comes down to the final weeks of RPI' s season and Rochester's remaini11g games. As for Union, the Dutch- men have two remaining games, hoth at Central Park. On Apri.127, the Dutchmen go up against Will- iams, andthen on the theridth f~tce Vassar in a double-header. This past Sunday, Union faced Hartwick in a double-header which yeilded the Dutchmen two wlns. Thefirstgameoftheaftemoon was a tight battle with Union pulling ()Ut a 6 .. .5 victory in eight innings. Ryan Almsteadstarted on the muund f()r the Dutchmen, pitching six ill- nings. Almstead pitched very well according to teammate Todd Ellis. Giving up only two ru11s, Almstead pitched a tough garn.e, making Hartwick work for their runs. Behind Gunscbel and Ahnstead was the Union offense, which s~tw Murdoch Walker hit six for ten wi1h four RBJs. Todd Ellis hit a two-run single and Brett Zani added an RBI single in tbe top of the sevent!t. Bryan Slekes singled home the winning run in the top of the eighth, giving the Dutchmen the edge. The seccnd game of the after- noon saw CraigKazmierczak on the mound. Kazmierczak went five in- nings, giving up a stingy two tuns. Behind Kazmi.erczacks' great pitching, the Dutchmen won the game, 15-4. In the fifth inning alone, Union sent twelve battters to the plate, accounting for eight runs. Contrib- uting on offense for the Dutchmen vvere Zak King, with two hits, Almstead with two hits,. and Eric Kopka with a triple among his three other hits. At the end of the game, Todd Ellis commented on his teams ·effort and was quite happy with their performance. On the previous day, Union faced Utica College in yet another d()uble-header. The first game ()f the afternoon saw Bob Krickovich on the mound pitching up into the sixth inning. Rob Moody came in dtuing the sixth to finish up the game. However, neither could get the momentum ill th<~ir favor and Union lostthe game, 7-4. The second game was not much better for the Dut-chmen, facing a l2 ... 6Joss. Seth Burrows started on the mQuild and was relieved by Ryan Frasca. When speaking with Ellis about the game, he mentioned that the team simply came in on a !()sing streak and could not pull it- selftogether. ·~utica made some big plays and we couldn't.\ Ellis com- mented. He went on to say that Unions errors came at a time when they couldn't stop the .bleeding. Earlier in the week Union traveled to Hamilton, where they played two games. Both games ended up in losses for the Dutchmen. Both games were close down to tbe end, but Union could not pull Cory ., ... ,.,.,, Sophomore Jay Warzala makes contact with the ball, hitting a single for Union. out the vict<>ries. The first game was pitched 'by Almstead and the second by Kazmierczak. Almstead pitched a very tight game. only to lose, 5-4. The same circumstances were in the caseofKazmierczak's game, ending in a 3-2 loss. Todd Ellis again commented on the games and simply said that the games were similar to those against Utica. \They made plays that they had to when they had to ~tnd we didn't.'; TheDutchmen were faced with another loss in the last few weeks. Piteller Dave Permachia was lost forthe season two weeks ago while pitching a routine game. He has a partial tear to his MCL and also a tear in a tendon in his elbow. The surgery he must un- UCAA Stat1din.g~ . . - ... ·:· ream RPf S k.idm ore U I'll on St. Lawrence Clarkson Harnnton Rochester W·L~T 9·3-0 9 .. 3-0 s-s~o . 4-6·0 .4-8-0 3~7~0 3-4~0· .-··:-~- .. ''' dergo is known as Tommy John and is major surgery. His surgery requires one year's rest, but the team is hopeful that he will return for the next season. On Tuesday, Union faced Williams, home at Centtal Park. In a close game; Wil- liams prevailed, going onto victory by the score of 5-3. . '. ~ -' ... PTs 27 27 15 12 12 9 9 W~L--T · · 2S~9~o· . 15~16-{}' JJ;.2'6~o: 8-21.:0 - . ' . . . ·.&~22-0 . 9\21-o *'o~'i{ ~ .. () •.,.... -. -~-- ,. ..

' J Women's Crew Takes Part in Gilman Cup by Braelin Patel& Mary Felton Contributing Writers Cs iszer, Charlotte Beales. J en JV race. Six out of the eight JV Gib:nan plate, and there was much Morrison, Meghan Driscoll, Anne women were rowing in their second pressure to hold on to the trophy Blmik.man, Katie Tee, GuidaEstrela: race ofthe day. Although they may this year. With, two more crews This past Saturday, Union Crew and coxswain Sharon Pozner. Katie have been slightly tired from their added to the competition, tbe hosted the second annual Gilman Mack reflected on the p()wer of the earlier 2000 m., this surely did not women kilewtbat this was no e(!Sy Cup race. This race was estab- boat,citingitasakeyfactorintheir hindertheirperfonnance! task. lished last year by Union alum victory.TheNoviceBboathadalso Holding steadfast throughout Astheyrowedupthestart,the LarryGilman, '63. Originally a race been recently assembled, with-out the race, the JV women proved tension was. building. Coxswain between Union and Hamilton Col- much practice time together as a their endurance by sprinting to a Cori Kautz assured her boat of lege, this year, Vassar College and unit. win in the final700m ofthe race. their ability, and reminded all that University of North Carolina- They showeddetermination and Members of this winning boat this was the last home race for Wilmington were addedtothecom· willagainstthestrongercrews, but were Naemmah Tan, Sue Zelnick, seniors Susanna Ryan, Sarah petition. unfortunately.did.tmtmeetwiththe Tara Noyes, Katie Mack, Arnie Ahart, and Jamie Sunchuck. UnwreofwhMhid-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, Com~goWof~e den talent these teams stan at 38 strokes per might possess, th minute, Hamilton and women spent a week · Union wereclearlyin1he long strenuous practices lead. Bythe500mmark, on the water. With the . UNCwas nowhere to be New York State Champi- found and Union was onships looming only a ptdling steadily ahead week away, the women .ofHamilton. knew that this race Vassar ran into crucial fortheirprepara- teeh n ical pro b I ems, tionforstates. With con- ~~~~-llll!f-l;,which slowed thern fidence and the desire to win, the women set out to achieve their goal on Saturday. The races therestofthecrew commenced with the lissa Su1livan, novice women racing at . Braelin Pantel, Chris noon. Vines, Clare Canal and \'\... . A large crowd of par- Mary Felton) realized ents and fellow Union \\\\· effort they needed students gathered on the · ~~.. put forth. banks ofthe Mohawk to It was victorious in cheer on the teams for end! With a winni11g the last home race ofthe time of 7:43, (over 10 season. The women's seconds faster than the ~------------------------~~----~~~~ novice race was com- next cJosest crew) the prised of two Unidn The women's crew tearn carries the boat back to the house after the race. Varsitywomenwill con· crews, a Vassar crew, and---~~--~~-~----~~--~~ ... ~-~---~-----~--~~~- tinue to hold on to th:e a Hamilton crew. The Novice A Gillman Plate, and walked home boat carne into this race with a same result. Thewomenareexcited Csiszer, Charlotte Beales, Jen with medals. 00 Saturday! sligllt disadvantage, having only about the prospect of proving Morrison, Anne Blankman, and Nextweekendthecrewteam will practiced as a boat for two days. themselves for next weekend. were coxed by Sharon Pozner. They travel to Rome., NY to fight for the Despite this potential setback, the The Novice B boat was com- had a winning time ofS:0 3 . All ~yes New York State Championship. women persevered throughout. prised of Sue Zelnick, Lauren were on the Varsity Women, the fi- After this past Saturday's races, Union Novice A came out ahead Goldstein, Jen Miller, Candi Gor- nal women's race ofthe day. the Union Women's Crew team is witbatimeofg:o 2 . don, Julie Wittekind,Kat Ferris, Lastyear, atthefirstGilman Cup looking towar<ls success, and a Winningthisracewasagreatac- Mary Grose, Dena Whitesell and race, a silver plate was presented bidtotheDivisionUI champion· complishmentfortheeightwoman coxswain Allison Cohen. to the winning Varsity women's ships in Worcester, MA. in the boat: Katie Mack, Arnie ThenextWomen'sracewasthe team.ln'98,Uniondidwinthefirst . .. 'h: ....... , .. one O\.·. ·the last big of sports forftl,e . - term. so .'J,, ;~ .~ '':--:':.. ', .. _.r·~~--··' '> ·. . . ·, . - - - . . CQffift·.· ~, •.• ;'W( .. ·.·tflitl' .. : tliiiiiif · ·• VO.i.lr, · _--::.: .. ;'. , __ -., Men's Crew Finishes Regular Season With a Big Win by John Carbone StaffWriter This past weekend saw the close of the regular season for men's crew, and what a close it was. The novice men began the day's events. Led by coxswain Willard Genrich Ill, novice rowers Jamie \Rocketman\ Slocum, Ben \Huggles\ Foster, Cory \Ladies love me\ Allen, Hans \Oh Canada'~ Black, George \Wookie\ Kosturko, Jeff \3 s!des o' beef' Hoffman, Remi \???\Drozd, and Rob \Peach Fuzz\ Pinney were primed and ready to lay into the competition. The start of the race was a clear illustration of the Union boat's determination and will to win. As Allen recalled, \We blew 'em [Hamilton] outta da wada.\ This domination continued into the race, as Union led by an insurmountable margin of I 0 boat lengths at the finish. Entering the last 50~ meters of the race the crew chose not to apply tile typical sprint to the finish, as this would be the first of a pair ·Of races for many of the rowers. Choosing instead to keep the stroke rating at its current level, the crew began to apply their leg drives in full, varsity rowers, the Union crew of but, unfortunately, they rowed an sending the boat towards the Andy \Admissions Man\ idealone. Weweredownbyafull finish. Allen reminisced, ~'The boat Martinson, Adam \Butternip\ boatlengthatthe 1000 metermark was really haul in' when we came Murphy, David \Ayy-0\ Polizzi, but we were able to close to orify intothelast500. Fosterwasyelling Jay \Lookin for love\ Pyo, John threeseatsbythefinish. Perhaps at me from the bow and that got me \I'm just a climber\ A !bert, we were a little too late with our fired up. l never r-\' ......... ------------~------------~--'--~----------~-~--, final sprint.\ got to tell him • I must say how much I that stand- appreciated ing at the that. He comes 1500 meter off as a big, tough guy but deep down inside he's a. teddy bear. I just wantto give.· him a big hug ... \ The race came to an end when Hamilton crossed the I ine ()Verone minute~.=:~~ atch as o n closed the gap. I truly thought it was going to happen, and 20 seconds Spectators stand on the sides ofthe river and watch the The final event of the day, the men's Var- sity 8+ was a battle for behind the Union boats pass by them. powerful Union crew. The men's events continued with the J.V. race. All year, Union's J.V. crew has provided some of the most titillating racing tllis rower bas ever seen. Facing off against a Vassar boat stacked with many Kosturko, Pinney, and coxswain Genrich knew that a strong chal~ lenge lay ahead. The Vassar boat was able to get out at the start and hold Union off for the remainder. Junior Adam Murphy shared his insights: \We rowed a decent race the Gilman Cup; generouslydonated by alum- nusLarryGilman '63. Detennined to keep the cup at home the men's 8+ John \Modesty\ Carbone, Michael \Geo\s more than just rocks\ Sherwc;>od; Steve \Torsoman\Eichfeld,John ''Class .of '59\ .Poor, Robert \[Insert Name Here]\ -Enfeld, Slocum, Hoffman, Drozd with coxs.wain Richard \Feel thebum\Simmons took to the river with poise and grace. The first 500 meters were something of a sllock to the confident Union boat as both Hamilton and Vassar stuck with them. That changed at the 600 meter mark wlten Simmons called for a \Power 20\ a11d the crew began to grunt in uniso11. The boat lur1ged ahead by one seat on every stroke, opening water between Union and their competition. The gap grew wider as Union continued to p()wer down the course. Another 20 at the 1 IO()meter mark sealed the race. With a special I~ for called f(]r the graduating senillrs, the Union eight would not be denied. Hamiltontried to move at the 1500 meter mark but Union brought up its stroke rating and sprinted t() the finish, flying ahead~ An appropriate close to a fine season, one that saw domillation of its opponents save Hobart (who narrowly beat out Union on April I 1 ). As the State Meet approaches, it is important to remember that ~'He who laughs last, laughs best.\ ' I I

:': ~ .. ·.·. .· . •,' ·· .. - .. · ::. , - - r . . ·_,•-_; -.· -~:;::> ·:' . ' . •.·.· . . ·.\ ~ . . . . '~ : .. •... \Feel river 500 as both with ' meter f6r a to h.Jtiged stroke, and p grew 2() at race. for the eight ark but flying a fine (who April . J-.-_/·8·2~0/5-.6 u. CAA). kD · ' · .i\'\1.:'\~ ., . ,. .. . .. . ~ . . . a..ARKSoN(2) ._. · Won 8-6'W<m 7-5 ST~ :lAVVRS'CE_ (f) .4-?~~ 421Won 7 .. 5 ;, ·. i.Ost 12-8 . w.S-S'Wst s.1 i ; ,-~. . L0st7,51U>St 32 '. ; ; - '•, i :- ' ';_,' '' ·,·:'• .: :;; c•_~.~-· • - ,·. • ' ' !·_ •• '. ~' . Softball (20-8/ 5-1 UCAA) APRJL • 6 HARTWICK(2) Won 5-4/Won 3-2 8 at Wtllinns (2) Lo~t 3-'21 Lost 2-1 10 .ID\MLTON(2) Won 7-'1/ Won ~2 13 M.Dl.l..FBURY (2) Won 4-3/8-0 IS AIBA'NY(2) Won 2-M..ost 5-2 17 atUica{2) lost 5-?JWon 10-'l 20 atRPI(2) Won 3--n~Lost 3-;2 22 NEWPALTZ(2) Won 5-4/Won9-3 24 at Skidirore (2) Won 18-2/Won 12...:3 27 ONF.ONrA(2) lost 7..f:/Won 12..;7 29 . RUSSElL SAGE (2} 3PM MAY 1 R~TFR(2) IPM Men's Lax (5-6/2-2 UCAA) APRIL 5 SKII:M)RE ~ at Clarkson ro at St UJ.W'Qlee 13 atl.Jtica 17 OCAA Champio:w;hips 18 atlbbart 20' atOrloonta 22 atRPl 24 VASSER Lost7;.() . Won54. Lost$.2 Won7-0 . -- ;._, Union Placed Sixth out ofS teams pddntin: pddrain Lost 7-0 Men'sand (Men 0-1/W omen 0-1) . :·,· ''/ ·; .·-.. .. '. ' . -~',.. ... AD. ·CH· .. ,.,_·:·. IV~ '·~ 1 t®~·.l<.':,_ -~:·( · .; .· ·\i:.~:: Wo~:i~I7 · .. . 31 . at Hartwick .. · ·: '·\'. APRIL. 1 ••• 2. at Vasser 6 :MIDDLEBURY 9 atRPI 10 at Skidmore 14 ALBANY 16 CLARKSON 17 ST. LAWRENCE 20 at Utica . 22 GENESEO MAY 1 HAMILTON 4 WILLIAMS Lest 10-3 Won20-2 Lost 9-5 Lost 20-7 Lost 10-8 Lost 7-4 Won 11-8 Won 11-8 Won 14-1 Won 10-8 2PM 4PM APRn., 3 10 18 24 MAY 10 a '\\fllarg 16 lThA1vh;t a RPI 11 Lt'M.MltaRPI Crew atRPI PRESIDENT'S CUP RACE/ with Hobart and William Smith at Skidmore Gliman Plate & Cup Race at Hamilton (M l.a;t lffi..~ ~1m.2J 121M Ibh.rvtn<J\d Wnm Fni;ha:l Fouth Won all four races Lost in all five races 9AM Won 3 of6 Races I NYS Championship i11Rome, NY 8 Women's NCAA Championship Will the Denver Broncos have the ability t~ three~ peat without John Elway? . E ... maq your thoughts to · c()nC()tdy@vu.union.edu ' • ' ,- ·, 'i •·' - : • ' ••

0 · .. : . .

alls 'i

