''You ~rzly live. onr:e-but if you work it right, once is enough \ · · ~Joe E. Lewis VolumtCXXVILNtJmberXVI The Student Nemrpape;· off.!':1ion College Since. 1877 March 4,.199() · Celebrating the Birth of Union College News: ANew Hiring Plan fur Faculty Page5 0 . 0 piDIODS: Lots of Letters Page6 Features: MattyG's Last Dance Page9 Sports:: by Mary Felton Staff Writer Over two centuries ago, Union . College received its. grant for a · .. College Charter, one ofthe first in the nation. February 25, 1999 marked the two-hundred an<! · fourth anniversary of Union's founding. A convocation cer- emony was held in Memorial Chapel to commemorate this an- niversary. At a little after 11:30 AM, tile ceremony began with a distin- guished procession of Union's faculty accompanied by music played by Dianne McMullen, the Assistant Professor of Music an<! the College Organist. Dressed in their gowns, the fac- ulty marched into a ceremony where they comprised half ofth'€ audience. Following the faculty, and carrying their class banners, were the Student Forum represen• tati;ves from the classes of 1999• Cory Silken/TC Faculty Jnarch into Memorial ChapeJ on Thursday. · · 2001. Therestoftheaudiencewas 111ade up·of a handful ofstudents, some alumni and other members of Union's community. Due·to the importance ofthis event, there was a poor tum out. Jan Ludwig, a Professor of Phi- losophy and a Marshal for the ceremony gave the opening ad· dress where he stated how he was, \Looking forward to new chal- leriges.\ President Hull then ex:- ten deed a welc<lllle to Yervant Teni an, a James A, Weeks P.rofes- sor o()fPhysical Sdences ahd Chair- manofthe Astro11omy Department at Comell University, and Vincent· N llgecnt and Will ia:m 01 iver, recipi- entsofthis year's Gideon Hawley Teacher Recogniti()o Award. Greetings were extended by Beth Wier2bieniec, President ofthe Stu- dent Forum, ThereseMcCarty, Pro- fessoif of Econorn ics and Chair of tile F .acuity ExectJtive Committee, and ~nton Warde '64-, Professor of Gennanand a Member of the Board of Trustees. Each gFtveabrief, yet individual speech on the past and future of Union. Beth Wierzbieniec noted historical eve.nts that occurred around the time Union received its Charter. She also listed people of significance who have attended the College in an attempt to con- vey that tile value of Union's edu- cation cannot be clearly defined until the students move on from Union into their futures. Profes- sor McCarty re.flected on imag~s portrayed in old photos as a win· dow to the future, while Professor Warde gave a humorous greetin:g on behalf of the Trustees. The next part of the ceremoruy was a very touching presentati()n of the two Gideon Hawley Teacher Recognition Awards. Students Michaela Cautela and Anna Kertser, both members ofthe class of2002, had each nominated teach· ers from their high schools on tfie basis of their outstanding skills for this award. Vincent Nugent, a Chair of the E11glish Department and a member of the Drama Department at Rhinebeck High School, in Rhinebeck, New York, was nornii· nated by Michaela Cautela. In her essay describing his extraordinary skills in teaching she comple:· mented him by saying,\ he taugfit me how to learn.\ Anna Kertser nominated William Oliver, a Chem· istry teacher at tile Fair Lawn Higll Schoo'!, in FairLawn, New Jersey. She illustrated 11im in her essay a.s someone who, \ ... tookhis students to a higher level oflearning.\ Both students were able to present their- former High School teachers witfi the awards, wh icll seemed to evoke strong emotions from the audience_ Professor McMullen for a sec- ond time impressed the audience with her musicaltalent by playing a piece on the organ for an inter- Cmrtintted on page 3 Men's Sw.imming Finishes Third Sigma Delta Tau Accused of Hazing Page 17 · Campus N~ws ·~ 3 Opin,ions· .. 6 Features- 8 World;News -10 Technology-12 A&E-14 Spor~s-17 · O,ur E-m~ail· '',- '.· by Jim DeWan News Editor On Tuesday, February 16, a Union College security officer was making his rounds throughout campus and noticed three cans of Milwaukee's Best beer sitting in a plastic bag underneath the flag· pole between West College and the Nott Memorial, The cans of beer were accompani~d by a note titled ''Clue #5,\ with instructions to chug the beer. The note was signed by sisters of the sorority. The security officer then secure<! the note and waited for pledges. The cans of beer and note turned out to be part of a scavenger hunt, as Campus Safety, through further investigation, gathered similar numbered notes. This scavenger hunt was a part of a pledging event · for the Sigma Delta Tau sorority_ DirectorofCampusSafety, Bill . con~o.rdy@ !~~~i~:;:~se!:~:si!h:~:::~~~:~~ ·vtl.union.edu - theCollege'sandNewYorkState's ........ _____ ......,......,........,....,..-.,.....__........., hazing and underage drinking Ia.ws. Conduct cllarges have been filed against the sisteirs of SDT for hazi!lg and serving ruinors alcohol. Ccmcluct charges. \\'ere not filed aga.i11st the pledges Ibecause they did not consume tile beer. SDT has been told to \su~pend all pledge acliviities until res()lllltlion ofthe situ- ati()n,\ according, to Dean of Stu- dents- Fred Alfor& 'This is the only immediate discipl imary action that has boeen taken agains:t the sorority. Majo-r disciplinary action will only be 1a.ken if the S()rority is found guilty of the co n<luct charges, whicll are still pending. Alford not~d that the possible outcomes oftlle hearing incl:ude finding SDT nCJt g'llilty, issuing the house a rep- rim-and, or a loss ()f housing. S,J)T's national: office maintains tluthazing is not:IJermitted within its. ()llapters, and say they investi- gate hazing colJ1pLaints indepen- dent!~\ with variotts <Jutcomes rang- ing from finding the ·chapter inno- cenito revoking t!Jeir membership. Ani! Braly, Executiv·e Director of SDTs National Office, promised that the incident on February 16 would n()t go unnoticed, indicat- ing that\ I'm sure there will be an investigation ifthere is an incident involving hazing.\ The Con<luct Committee will hold a hearing for the SOT case on Monday, March 8 and make its decision the11. Both the adminis- tration .and the sorority were equally reluctant to discuss the case. Associate Dean of Students Kate Schurick will present the case to the committee. In regards to the case, she insisted that she \was not going; to discuss it,\ explain- ing that \If I were to comment, it would jeopardize the integrity of the case. I refuse to comment on the case until a final outcome has been reached.i' SDT president Jen DeLucca also refused to address the issue, em- phatically sta.ting that she and her house had n() comment on the is- sues. She -would not specifically respondt()thecharges, or give any insight llS to why she and her bouse chose to have the Conduct Committee hear the case as op- posed to an administrator. Thee only comment she would make wa.:s \Yes\ when asked if she believed her house was innocent of th~ charges. After conduct charges are filed against anyone or any group Gil campus, they !lave two options, They can choose for a member o-f the administrati<m to review their case and determine their guilt ().£ they can have the Conduct Corn- mittee determine their innocence()£ guilt, and decide an appropriat<': punishf!!ent. Their punishment is then recommended to Dean Alforcl, who will decide whether or not tCJ enact the decision of the Conduct Committee. After this, the con- victed party then has the chanc<': to appeal the decision to Preside!lt Hull. When the Conduct Commit- tee found Delta Upsilon guilty ()f the charges against them, Alfor(] \implemented the Conduct Committee's recommendations to Continu£d on page 3 ; j \

''You only live once-but if you work it right, once is enough '' -Joe E. Lewis ;<il /.'J>'f/' ··~~ti~~ ---·----·------------- ~~===~:~~~~~:::===---~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- This Week, News: ANew Hiring Plan for Faculty Page 5 Opinions: Lots of Letters Page6 Features: MattyG's Last Dance Page 9 Sports: Men's Swimming Finishes Third Page 17 Inside Campus News- 3 Opinions- 6 Features- 8 World News -10 Technology-12 A & E -14 Sports -17 Our E-mail concordy@ vu.union.edu Celebrating the Birth of Union College by Mary Felton St(lj{Writer Over two centuries ago, Union College Feceived its grant for a College Charter, one of the first in the nation. Fel>ruary 25, 1999 marked the t\.VO-htmdred and fourth anniversary of Union's fotJnding. 1\ convocation cer- emony was held in Memorial Chapel to commemorate this an- niversary. At a little after 11 :30 AM, the ceremony began wi·th a distin- guished process ion of Union's faculty accornpa11ied by music played by Dianne McMullen, the Assistant Profe:ssor of Music and the College Organist Dressed in their gowns, the fac- ulty marched into a ceremony where they comprised half of the audience. Following the faculty, and carrying their class banners, were the Student forum represen- tatives from the classes of 1 999- 2001. The rest()fthe audience was made up of a handful of students, some alumni and other members ofUnion 's community. Due to the importance oftltis event, there was a poor tum out. Jan Ludwig, a Professor o fPhi- Iosophy and a Marshal for the ceremony gave the opening ad- dress where he stated how he was, \Looking forward to new chal- lenges.\ President Hull then ex- Cory Silken/rC Faculty march into Memorial Chapel on Thursday. tended a welcome to Yervant Terzian, a James A. Weeks Profes- sor of Physical Sciences and Chair- man of the Astronomy Department at Cornell University, and Vincent Nugent and William Oliver, recipi- ents of this year's Gideon Hawley Teacher Recognition Award. Greetings were extended by Beth Wierzbieniec, President of the Stu- dent Forum, Therese McCarty, Pro- fessor of Economics and Chair of the Faculty Executive Committee, and Anton Warde '64, Professor of German and a Memberoftht Board of Trustees. Each gave a brief. yet individual speech on the past and fu tLJre of Union. Beth Wierzbieniec noted historical events that occurred around the time Union received its Charter. She also listed people of significance who ha'le attended the College in an attempt to con- vey that the value ofUnion 's edu- cation cannot be c }early de fined until the students move on from Union into their futures. Profes- sor McCarty reflected on images portrayed in old photos as a win- dow to the future, while Professor Warde gave a humorous greeting on behalf of the Trustees. The next part of the ceremony was a very touching presentation of the two Gideon Hawley Teacher Rt:cognition Awards Students Michac!J Cautcla Jnd :\nna Kt:rber, both rncmbersofthc (Ia~~ of~002, hat! t:ach nominated tt:ach- ers from their high schools on the basis of their outstanding skills for this award. Vinct:nt Nllgent, a Chair of the English Depart111ent and a 111ember of the Drama Department at Rhinebeck High School, in Rhinebeck, New York, was nomi- nated by Michaela Cautela In her essay describing his e.xtraordinary sl\ills in teaching she comple- mented him by saying, .. he taught me how to learn.\ Anna Kertser nominated William Oliver, aChem- istry teacher at the Fair La~n High School, in Fair Lawn, NcvvJersey. SlJe illustrated him in I:J~r essay as someone who,\ ... took l1is students to a higher level of learning.\ Both students were able to present their former High School teachers with the awards, which seemed to evoke strong emotions from the audience. Professor McMullen for a sec- ond time impressed the audience with her musical talent by playing a piece on the organ for an inter- Continued on page 3 Sigma Delta Tau Accused of Hazing byJimDeWan News Editor On Tuesday, February 16, a Union College security officer was making his rounds throughout campus and noticed three cans of Milwaukee's Best beer sitting in a plastic bag underneath the flag- pole between West College and the Nott Mem()rial. The cans of beer were ace om pan i~d by a note titled \Clue #5,\ \.Vith instructions to chug the beer. The note was signed by sisters of the sorority. The security officer then secured the note and waited for pledges. The cans ofbeer a11d note turned out to be part of a scavenger hunt, as Campus Safety, through further investigation, _gathered similar numbered notes, This scavenger hunt was a part of a pledging event for the Sigma Delta Tau sorority. Director of Campus Safety, Bill Sickinger, believes that this inci- dent appears to be in violation of the College'sandNew York State's hazing and Uild erage drinking Jaws. Conduct charges have been filed against the sisters of SOT for hazing and serving minors alcohol. Conduct charges were not filed against the pledges because they did not consume the beer. SOT has been told to \suspend all pledge activities until resolution of the situ- ation,\ according to Dean of Stu- dents Fred Alford. This is the only immediate disciplinary action that has been taken against the sorority. Major disciplinary action will only be taken if the sorority is found guilty of the conduct charges, which are still pending. Alford noted that the possible outcomes of the hearing include finding SOT not guilty, issuing the house a rep- rimand, or a loss of housing. SDT' s national office maintains that hazing is not permitted within its chapters, and say they investi- gate hazing complaints indepen- dently, with various outcomes rang- ing from finding the chapter inno- centto revoking their membership. Ann Braly, Executive Director of SOT's National Office, promised that the incident on february 16 would not go unnoticed, indicat- ing that 'Tm sure theFe will be an investigation ifthere is an incident involving hazing.\ The Conduct Co1nmittee will hold a hearing for the SOT case on Monday, March 8 and make its dec is ion then. Both the adminis- tration and the sorority were equally reluctant to dis cuss the case. Associate Dean of StLidents Kate Schurick willpresentthecase to the committee. In regards to the case, she insisted that she \v1as not going to discuss it,\ explain- ing that \If I were to comment, it would jeopardize the integrity of the case. I refuse to comment on the case until a final outcome has been reached.\ SDT president Jen DeLucca also refused to address the issue, em- phatically stating that she and her house had no comment on the is- sues. She would 11ot specifically respond to the charges, or give any insight as to why slH~ and her house chose to have the Conduct Committee hear the case as op- posed to an administrator. The only comment she would make was \Yes\ when asked if she believed her house was innocent of the charges. After conduct charges are filed against anyone or an) group on campus, they have two options. They can choose for a mem her of the administration to review their case and determine their guilt or they can have the Conduct Com- mittee determine their innocence or gui It, and decide an appropriate punishment. Their punishment is then recommended to Dean Alford, who will decide whether or not to enact the decision of the Conduct Committee. After this, the con- victed party then has the chance to appeal the decision to President Hull. When the CondllCt Commit- tee found Delta Upsilon guilt) of the charges against tl1en1, AI ford \implemented the Conduct Committee's recommendations to Co11tinued on page 3

Caii1pus Life Page 2 • March. 4, 1999 • <rrn.n.cnrhiensis Security Incident Report Sunday, February 21, 1999: Criminal Mischief 2:45AM South College. Person unknown entered residentro()m and disturbed items. Criminal Mischief/ Arrest 3:39AM South Co liege. Items. being thrown from window causing damage to parked veh.icle in lot. Suspects identified and Conduct Charges and arrest made. Harassment II :20AM Safety Dept. Control Center. Harassing phone calls to operator. Monday, February 22, 1999: Reckless Endangenilent/ Substance Abuse Criminal Mischief Criminal Mischief Public Lewdness Criminal Mischief Suspicious Person Harassment Larceny 2:05AM Lenox Road. Student driving recklessly. Stoppe<l by SPD and identi- fied. Conduct Charges filed. 8:30AM Sigma Chi. Entrance door window pane smash0dout. Work order filed. 8:54AM Sigma Chi. Resident room window smashed by l:leer bottles being thrown through. Work Order filed. 3:15PM Off Campus Union Ave. Person exposed himset fto· student. Person not identified due to delay in reporting time. 3:35PM West College. Window smashed out in 3rd floor lounge, Work order filed. 5:13PM Davidson parking lot area. Panhandler requestingm(:)ney. Unable to identify due to delay in reporting time. 7:54PM Davidson Hall. Student being harassed. Student siQ!>ped and identified. II: I OPM Alumni Gym parking area. Two unknown suspects entered parked vehicle. Fled when approached by campus· officers. SPD contacted and responded. Tuesday, February 23, 1999: No incidents to report Wednesday, February 24, 1999: Security Hazard 4:57PM Off campus apt. Checked all ok. Thursday, February 25, 1999: Larceny 4:57PM Schaffer Library. Theft of lap top computer. Motor Vehicle Accident 9: II PM Campus Operations Lot. Property damage accid.e11t. No injuries reported. Friday, February 2<i, 191)9: Life Safety Violation Motor Vehicle Accident Animal Complaint !2:52AM Raymond House Removal of room ,Smoke dete<:tor. Life Safety Violation issued. 3:05PM Fox/Davidson parking lot. Property damage acci<lent. No injuries. 9:55PM Fox House. Dog unleashed. Owner identified and advised. Saturda-y, February 27, 1999: Criminal Mischief Larceny 3:29AM Potter House. Window pane broken out. TempClrary repairs made. 9:41AM West Dining. Card reader taken from Dining Services. Fire Alarm Unauthorized Entry I 2:08PM North College. Cause from cooking. No dama£e. 4:13PM Alumni Gym. Guests did not sign in. Identified and advised. BINGE DRINKING CAN BE DEADLY What is binge drinking'? It's drinking a lot in a short time- 5 or more drinks in a lr()W. IJinge drink- ing is drinking to get drunli. It's drinking as much as possible as fast as possible. 3imgedrinking is dangerous! A drink is: 12 oz. Beer( 5% alcohol) 5 oz. of wine ( 12% alcohol) 12 oz. Ofwinecooler(5% alcohol) I ~oz. Of80proofliquor(40%alcoltol) Each drink contains aboutthesame amount ofalcoboland is equally dangerous. Why should I learn about binge drinking? Because binge drinking can be deadly, it can lead to: • Alcohol poisoning Problems at school • Unprotected sex Death Any use of alcohol is illegal ify()u're under 21. Car crashes Violence Serious ifljury Alcohol is a dangerous drug. It's a powerful depressant. That means it slows down tile body and mind and that can lead to trouble. Alcohol enters the bloodstream quickly, it reaches the brain within minutes. Binge drinking can quickly cause intoxication. Some people mistakenly believe that getting drunk is llannless fun. It's not. Alcohol \knocks out\ control centers in the brain. Intoxication happens in stages: 1. Emotional changes- erratic behavior, impaired thinking, loss of control 2. Confusion- distJriefited, double vision, staggeri11g, exaggerated fear, anger J. In a stnpor- unable to walk or stand, near paralysis, vomiting, ilrcontinence; passing out 4. In a coma - completely unconscious, at risk of death from respiratory parillysis. Drinking games can kill! You can move through the four stages of intoxication very quickly. Playing drinking games is playing wi1h your life. Binge drinl<ing- even once- is very risly! Ringe drin ki11g is much more likely to lead to: Unprotected sex, drinking a11d driving, violence, trouble with the law, poor performaJlce in school, overdose and death. IHnge drinking ruins lives. Know the dangers of alcohol, understand the risks ofbhlge dri11king, build 11p your self-esteem, choose healthy activities. Don't let drinkingwrecky{)ot life! Announcements A reappointment review is being held for Professor .PDul Gremillion,. Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering. Tl1e Committee consists of Profes~ors Tom Jewell (Chair), Plril Snow and John Garver .. A1zy member of the camp11s community who desires to provide itJput concerning Professor Gremillion's teacbiJ'lg, scholars/rip or service should contact any memher ofthe committee. Announcing the NinthAnuuaiCbarles P. Steinmetz • - ' >- ' - Symposium May 7, 1999 You can pick up an application and guidelines from the department secretaries or the Associate Dean's Office, S-10() Science and Engineering Building. Applicati()ns should be turned in to the de.partment secretaries. All students who will go to NCUR in Rochester are expected to present at the Steinmetz Syr:nposium. Robert Avon Smith Summer Re.s~arcb Fellowshi(l in Bie-Medical Engineering .at Union College. The fello.wslrip is sponsored hy Robert Avon Smith, Class of 1952. It is awarded to students in the sciences or engi• neering whtJ participate in a summer research program in bio-medical engineering under the guidance of Union College faculty. The award will be made available to a student selected on the basis f!} ability to conduct independent research ill bio- medical engineering and commitment to tire summer research program. Students interested should contact Professor J. Richar,d Shanebtook ill the Department of Mechanical Engineering. SENIORS If you are interested in speaking at the Baccalaureate or Commencement, submit a 1-4 page draft (approximately 5 minutes) to Judy Ludwig, Secretary to the Dean of the Faculty and member of the Commencement Committee, by Friday, April 16. The topic is yours to choose. Please in.clude your name, box nuniber, and ph()lle mmiber on your draft. If yo11 are interested in singing or performing at the Baccalaureate or CommencemEnt, please submit your name t() Judy Ludwig by Friday, April 16. If you would like more. information about this, cont:act Judy Ludwig at 388-6102 or at the Dean of the Faclllty's Office on the second flo()r of Feigenbaum Hall. Concordiensis staff wishes every- one luck on their finals. Enjoy Spring Break. See you next term! Student Forum Notes The Student Forum met on Feb- ruary 23 at 9:05PM. There was a motion passed to approve $600 for the women's rugby team. The In- ternational Club was passed for recognition and future eligibility for funds. The Forum also recog- nized the Association for Comput- ing Machinery. An \Open Mic Night\ is planned for February 26 and the \Roommate Game\ will take place on March 5. A subcom- mittee met about the common lunch hour. Carol Webbwill open · \Union United\ dialogues on April 6. Rob Bennett is still looking for mediators. A paper ballot election for the class of 2()00 V .P. is being held on February 27. Forum mem- bers will sign every ballot to en- sure legal voti11g. A letter is going out to students about the Silliman prize. Theme llouses are still re- cruiting new members. Ray Gilmartin, theCEOofMerck, will be the commencement speaker. The senior class. is selling T -shirts in the cam pus center; $1 0 fot short sleeved and $12 for long. Every Wednesday is Junior Nigllt at Chet's. The junior class will also be organizing clothes collection for charity next week. The sophomor'=' class is selling cowbells at the last home hockey games. The fresh- man class is still compiling a fac- ulty speaker's list. There will be a founder's day ceremony on Febru- ary 25 at 11: 15. There was. discus• sion about the mugging ori Gillespie and lack of student awareness about the incident. Stacy Drossman wrote a letter of sugges- tions regarding campus safety. The Forum passed a motion to vtrite a letter requesting a shuttle van to prevent the abuse of the escort service. The SAC approvedSigChi for a two-year housing renewal. Leadership training is still being planned. The Student Forum com- munity service day is postponed until spring term. The meeting con- cluded at I 0:45PM. '{ h n b n A is 0 0 al 0~ eJ m w tij te n lV pc OJ o1 at te o1 s~ d( m b( w UI Ia th ar fii ly sb in sc JU ti< th li~ m th stJ 0 th' W1 th of Te1 \I at~ in th Pa mj is w in1 as te1 wi au dr a!!

. Campus News QI:nu.c:nr.bi.ttt~is• March .4, 1999 • Page ,3 YervaD.t Terzian Speaks at Founders' Day Celebration . . • I lude, whith fiJ.led the chapel Y..:ith relaxing and .melodious. sound. In additio·n to being the Honorandand speaker forthe.con- vocation ceremony, Yerv.ant Terzian was presented with anhon ... omry degree, a docterate of sci- ence, by President Hull, which, as he explained, \[praised] his accom- plishments in astronomy.\ After having been bestowc;Jd with this honor, Professor Thomas Werner, of the Chemistry Depart- ment, introduced Terzian, giving a brief overview of his accomplish- ments in the ·~eld of Astronomy. As previously mentioned, 'f.erzian is the James A. Weeks Professor of Physical Sciences.and Chaimlan of the Astronomy Department at ComellUniversity. He graduated from the Americm University in Cairo and receivedhis Master's and Ph.b. from India11a University. Terzian has performed research and studies in many countries .all over tile world. What brought him to the upstate New York region was his direction, since 1988, ofthe Pew Science Education Program in New Yolk. This prQgram makes grants to support ~ndergraduate science education at a number ·of colleges in the state ofNew York, including Union, Fo.cusing on technology and the. sciences,. Yervant Terzian launched into hisspeechby giving examples •.• continued from pdge 1 of how, in the past, people have had disbelief in technological ad- vance~ent, such as the creation of an airplane. He stated that the, «Twenty.first century· will be beautiful and productive.\ He thol.l·ght this may be slightly staggered by those who make absurd comments includ .. ing, \l'm going to graduate ·On time, no matter how long it takes.\ This example helps Terzian ex- plain what he feels is a universal ignorance held by many people towards science. Many people who I:ive in this world do not comprehend it. He went on to give a long list of.items that may appear in the next century due to advan.ces in technology, such as although humorous, were told in electric cars and further use of artifi- · an effort to show the audience cial intelligence such as mbots. again how ignorant some people Terzianclaimedthatmarty ofthese are to the laws of natl.lre ami sci- expectations were conservative and ence. naive, and were realizations of fan- He stated, \Education must be tasi.es. He asked the audience to our highest priority,'' and we must imagine things such as the India- \get involved and spread the nai>olis 500w.ith electric cars. knowledge.\ To~ardtheendofhistalk, Terzian Following Yervant Terzian's spokeabmtt how the method ofsci- speech, there was a great round of ence \brings \IS through the 21st applause, and then everyone sang century,\yet.people are inspired by the Ode to Old Union. \bogus subjects\ such as aliens,and A strong feeling of tradition and UFOs. hope for the future swe.pt through He stated tha~ the true aim of sci- Memorial Chapel last Thursday, a e!lce is to discover how nature works sense of nostalgia for those who througn verifiable proofs. had once gone to Unionand a Yervant Terzian concluded his sense of hope for those with our speechwith a few more jokes which, paths before us. Daughters of the Dust The Mystery of tbe Mountains by Courtney Hayden Staff Writer \This film is for those individu- als who are seeking a certain type ofexperience. The kind of t;!x,peri- ence that doesn't translate into mass marketa,ppeal,\ Professor Ed- ward Pavlic stated in an introduc- tion to the Julie Dash film Daugh- ters ofthe Dust. Continuing the recognition of Black History Months the film explored the inde- pendent culture ofliberated slaves on the Gullah Islands off the coasts of Georgia and South Carolina. Set at the tum of the century, \Daugh• tets\ illustrated the residual' effects · of the slave trade by focusing on · specific kinds ofBlack culture that developed separate from that of mainland America. Though the creation of the film began in the early 80's, the project was not released in its final form until 1992. Part of this ten year lapse can be attributed to the fact that Dash, an African American film artist, funded and produced the film independently rather than re- lying on resources from the main- s~eam movie industry. Striving for intimacy with the audience, Dash sought to deal with how once sub- jugated people sustained their par- ticular heritage and perpetuated their cultural traits. As many fam i- lies from the Island migrated to the mainland, they began to assimilate their culture with that of main- stream America. Families who remained on tile Gullah Islands began to fear that their the individuality of the family would be extinguished. Rather than focusing on pat1icular aspects of this time period, events that are recorded in great detail in text fonn, \Daughters of the Dust\ was cre- ated as•·a montage of images relat- ing to African American culture. \Images convey the import of the story to a greater extent,\ Pavlic stated. \They make a state- ment without using narrative~ tllis is defmitely an image driven film.\ Whereas mainstream films are more inclined to delineate clearly each aspect of an event they are at- tempting to portray, the images within this particular film force the audience to focus attentively and draw their own conclusions. It is also more complex to comprehend each individual message the artist introduces. RC;lther than attempt- . ing to digest each theme the author develops, the viewer must strive by Erin Connolly Staff Writer only to fully decipher several small To a modest crowd of stu- details. dents and faculty, an attempt to . Several of the overarchi.ng discover the past was shown themes Which present themselves · through a guided tour of the throughoutDaughtersoftheDurt, tropical Andes Mountains. deal with the notions of a sub- Geoffrey 0. Seltzer, ofSyracuse merged culture and a fragmented University, was a tour guide on cultural history. The characters in February 25 through a lecture en,.. the film perpetually seek to retain titled \Palecolimatology of the connections with the lifestyle and Tropical Andes: The Record memory of their ancestors. Though from Lake Titicaca.\ these co11notations are of great im- Seltzer began by giving a vir- port to tile characters, they must . tual tour of the Andes through a come toterms with the factthattheir . stunning slide presentation; culture exists mainly on· the fringes which he followed up with mind- of Black culture .in general. T'h.e boggling charts. The tour be- events that are taking place on the gins in the East Cordilleras on mainland atthis time closely minor the La Paz of Peru. the sentiments of many AfricaiJ The East Cordilleras is a lush Americans. The Great Migration, tropical area. The slides Seltzer _beginning in the early twentieth presented were of a green para- ciers to portray the changes in tem- perature pattems. He started his tour on the East Cordilleras to illustrate the variety surrounding Lake Titicaca. The East has high levels of pre- cipitation and .small lakes. Yet, one of the most vivid and mystical sites of tile East would be that ofthe cloud frosts. The West, on the othef hand~ ·is more of a dry, splintered waste- land. 'The land is covered with large salt pans that stretch for miles at a time. On the horizon there are inactive vol- cano peaks. The West is the extreme opposite of the East. Seltzer wa~ not the first to be in- terested in Lake Titicaca, and the surro~ndingarea. A French exposi- tion preceded his team. Through core samples of the smaller sur- rounding lake of Lake Titicaca the French team found evidence that the lake has grown in dept~. Over time,the depth of the lake has increased to over 50 meters deeper than 50,000 years ago. This number sounds s.mall compared to the 11umberofyears, yet in truth is it was a prcfoundly large change. The French findings elevated Seltzer's in- terest. Seltzer endeavored not only prove the French theories are cor- rect, but to spring board off of them and make more discoveries. In a small boat, which was noth- ing more than a glorified shrimp boat called the Yakuza, Seltzer set out with his team to do his first core findings. The finds were quite com- mendable. The findings were so th.rilling to the intel'lectual community that the well-known institute of Woods Hole in Massachusetts donated a new boat to Seltzer's research. With the generous g~ft from Woods Hole,. Seltzer's expedition ex- panded. Selt2er stated that his three main questions, which he is still trying to answer, were: \What is the change in the temperature of CaC0 3 precipitation? What is the change in the hy- drology of the basin (eg. percep- tion minus evaporation balance) and what is the change in the iso- topic composition of the source perception?\ Once Seltzer discovers the an- sw.ersto these questions, the mys- tery of Lake Titicaca w·ill be solved. century, involved the movement of dise complete with rolling, gla- many blacks from the rural southtQ cier\capped mountains far in the southern and northern urban ce11- distance. It is these glaciers, as ters. Atthis time, family ties were well as past glaciers, that ·often uprooted and certain aspects prompted Seltzer to go to Peru. of cultu:ral identity began to dim i11- Seltzer is conducting research ish. Ma11y of the characters in the that looks it? to the cycles of gla- film make use of sign lapguage, 1-----~-----.-\-------------------------------------- ~:~~~!:t~[yan~~:r:st!!~lc:;n~:; SDT Faces Conduct Charges that co11tinues to fade. \Interest- ingly, this film illustrates the notioll that liberation is often suicidal,\' Pavlic reflected. This idea is illus- trated in its most literal form whe11 · examining the events that followe<i in the lives ·of subjugated blacks after atfernpts at physical! iberati<>ll from slavery. Frequently, severe reprimanding followed such at: • tempts. The effort to entice a mass · movement or to alter the founda.- tion of slavery was often coupled with the punishment of death. Re·- · markably,this was fully recognized as a precondition by those who at- tempted liberation. While sla¥ery is ended officially, though perhaps not fully in practice, athe time pe- riod in wllich Daughters ofthe Du$t · is set, 'the relation between Iibera.• tion and suicide is portrayed in a more subtle, metaphorical sense. As liberation entailed a freedom to move from the Islands and begin a better life; it also required 'the vol- untary breaking of family ties and removal ft6m a culture heritage tha.t ultimately defined one as an indi- vidual. the letter.\ In this case, Sot chose to have their case heard by the Con- duct Committee. The Conduct Committee is made up of nine Union students. Of these nine Union students, seven of these nine students are members of a fraternity or sorority. Originally, there were ten Greek students, but o~e member, Debbie Pellish, is currently on a term abroad. Jesse Edelman, chairman ofthe Conduct Com- mittee, appointed Lori Greene, an independent, to the committee. Greene agreed that her· \view may be different,\ than the oth- ers on the committee, but opti· mistically stated that \although there may be an apparent con- flict of interest, I have faith the committee can put the issues aside and objectively hear the case.\ The Committee on Committees is responsible for the selection of all student members for all of •·· continued from page 1 the committees that students siton, including the Conduct Committee. Jeremy Lynch, chairman of the Com- mittee on Committees for the 1998- 1999 school year, was a member of the Committee on Committees for the I 997-I 998 schqol year, and de- scdi>ed the process of selection of students for the Conduct Commit- tee. Lynch said that students were selected anonymously, based upon essays that they had written. Lynch explained the discrepancy between the number of Greeks and non-Greeks on the Conduct Commit- tee, saying that only fourteen stu- dents applied to be on the Conduct Committee last year, eleven were Greek Lynch did not speculate as to the reason why Greeks seemed to apply to the committee at such a higher rate than independents. Tile charges against SDT are the first against, a Greek house for haz- ing since the charges against Delta Delta Delta in the spring of 1996,. when the charges involved the over- consumption of alcohol by pledges. They did not choose to have t!Ie Conduct Committee hear their case, instead they had an ad- ministrator hear the case. They were found guilty of the hazing charges and had their housing privileges revoked as a result. The Jast time a Greek bouse ac- cused of hazing chose to have its case heard by the Conduct Com- mittee was in the Spring of 1995, when Delta Upsilon was accused ofhazing. The Conduct Commit- tee fouiJd_ DU guilty, revoked their housing privileges, and mandated they could only return to campus five years after they ceased their hazing_ Edelman believes that 4 'this case could set a precedent.\ Deb Leif, presidentofthe Panhellenic Coun- cil, which consists of representa- tives from each sorority, said that \Hazing has no place in a modem Greek system.\ Sickinger reiterated this point, saying, \Ha.ziiJg has no useful function.\

~age 4 • March 4, 1999 • O!muar.hlensiJs Campus News A Mix of Energy, Fury and Humor, Union Celebrates Corey Cokes Expresses Himself Through Powerful Poetry National Engineers we,ek by Brian Roache Staff Writer With a unique mix of energy, fury, and humor, Corey Cokes mastered the stage in Old Chapel this past Thursday evening. Sponsored by the African- Latino Alliance of Students, the national poetry slam champion of 1996lives in Cambridge, Massachu- setts, but proudly comes from Nor- folk, Virginia. His arrival, which was delayed about forty-five minutes due to the inclement. weather, was just in time to quell the anxious crowd. This crowd, which filled the Chapel, consisted of a wide array of stu- dents, faculty, and administrators. ln somewhat of a surprise to the audience, Cokes brought an open- ing act with him. In her first perfor- mance with Corey, a slightly ner- vous, yetextremely eloquent Judy Owens read four of her poems to loosen the crowd up. Standing in place in frcmt of the microphone, Owens, an African- American activist; read her own vivid interpretations ofthings like midnight basketball and them iII ion woman march in Philadelphia. It was easy to notice Owens' ner- vousness, in the beginning. However, once she began a poem, she appeared to settle right back into her own world where she could not have been more at home, and that was when the beauty of her poetry began to shine through. Closing out her brief performance, Owens surprised Cokes with a poem even he had never heard, \The Coolest Brotha on the Planet,\ of course written about Cokes himself. Owens wrote this poem after the first time she had ever seen Cokes by Professor F. Wicks Contributing Writer Dr~ Robb was also invited to de- liver the annual Stein1netz Memo- ria:! lecture at Union College at which he well described the pro- We have just completed N a- cesses and multiple benefits of re- tional Engineers Weekl which was search'. proclaimed to coincide with the General Electric Chairman Jack birthday of George Washington, Welch, wno has often been recog- who is well-recognized as our nized as the most successful and founding father, and who also admired coFporate leader, bas said started his varied careers as a sur- the only job he would rather have . : veyor and devoted much.ofhislife had was the position 'Dr. Robb held .. to engineering endeavors. as the leaderofthe company's.re• Cory Silken/TC Corey Cokes mesmerizes the audience with his powerful poet1y: perform. Forthoseofus in the au- dience who were also seeing Cokes for the first time, her poem did as much justice to the man as can be captured on paper. After rousing, the crowd to a standing ovation for Owens, Cokes rolled right into his poetry. It would be almost impossible to examine the poeny of Corey Cokes poem by poem, as it wasperfonned. From first glimpse, he is difficult to ascertain. Young, slender, and ba·ld by choice, his energy hits the crowd immediately. With a mix of fast and slow, serious and humorous, loud and soft, Cokes • message slowly begins to piece itself together. He is more than just a poet, he is more than just an African-American ac- tivist, he is a human activrst. By poking fun at both blacks and whites, and criticizing the na- tion as a whole, Cokes is doing his part to \Set fire to the asses of the masses.\ A former member ofthemusical Cokes lectured right into the con- science ofthe audience about be- ing bored. With all ofthe problems in the world, C()kes finds it appalling that anyone· has time to be bored, and • feels that everyone, including him- ·· self, should strive to do more for the werld, After a loud standing ovation, Cokes came on for an en- core performance; Following the show, Cokes and Owens stayed for quite some time to answer questions .individually from the audience and just to hear from the people he had touched. Standing back and watching this unfold, as person after person,-. black and white, male 11nd female, camS!UP to Cokes, just to:thank him forrhc:w· their lives had been touched by his work. Here the power of Corey Cokes becomes most evident. After an- swering my few questions, and the exchange of a handshake and an embrace, I walked away from Corey Cokes a-s he stood, still poetry in motion. Schenectadybecame world famous search organization. . as the birth place Since bis cor- of many engi- \The newly an- , porate reti.re- . , ment, Dr. Robb neenng accom- nounced business plishments and h;;ts remained in . remainsr-ichwith ·incUbator can provide. Schenectady world-class e!lgi- an important means . and has directed · neering ta.Jent. much ofhis talent A contem po- for bringing these ' toward the devel- rary example efa interests together for the opment ofn.ew de .. votedengineer. , .. I .. . d •£ ,.r .. te,chnolo.gJes with many inter- mutua goo 0 J u IliOn and startup com- estsisDr. Walter College·and the panies. Robb~ ~ho l~st . Schen~(:tady r:ommu- He has also week JOmed w1th · · . , · • • ,, : , . c b€come theprin- President Roger n1ty. cipal owner of Hull to announce the Albany River the creation of an incubator orga- Rats hockey team, and last year he nization to provide the resources celebrated his 70,th birthday with his for creative young entrepreneurs, three sons by dim bing the 19,710 engineers and scientists with the footMountKHimanjaro in eastern o.pportunity to help b\ting t-heir Africa. ideas to a beneficial reality for Continued prog.ress is best Schenectady and Union CQllege. achieved by identifying and.shar,. After being educated as achemi- ing the best available resotirc¢s. cal engineer and earning a PhD at Locally, this means combining the the University of Illinois, Dr. Robb energy and creativityofwelledu- speht h;is tc5rp6rate\'career at Gen- 1 caterl youth'withtherich resQurce, : era I Electric, starting at the Knolls of experienced engineers and busi .. Atomic PowerLaboratory and then ness people such as br. Robb. pioneering improved medicaldiag- The newly announced business nostic devices, such as Magnetic incubatorcanprovidean important Resonance Imaging, which led to means for bringing these interest$ the position of Senior Vice Presi- together for the mutual go<Jd of dent of Research and Develop- Union College and the Schenectad . communi ·· .. Union College Choir Travels to Boston to Perform at BU by Sofia Mazo Contributing Writer Towering buildings and the hum of traffic replaced the familiar tran- quility for Union College Choir members as they traveled to Bos- ton on the weekend of February l9 1 h. Union's choir joined the Bos- ton University Choral Society in a performance on Saturday, Febru- ary 20 in Marsh Chapel. The combined choirs sang \Te Deum,\ by Marc-Antoine Charpentier, a large-scale work that was the jewel of the concert. \Te Deum,\ which in Latin means \'Thee God, we praise,\ is a piece of sacred music, written for voices with organ accompaniment. The joint choirs contained over 60 members, each voice suppo1ting an essential harmonic line. It was so beautiful to hear how the powerful sound resonated in the acousti- cally brilliant chapel! \Te Deum\ contains eleven movements, and the work occupied the entire second half of the con- cert. It required quite a bit of en- durance just to retain \proper choir posture!\ But the choir was re- sponsible for only about half ofthe movements, since the Baroque ,.;i •· -------.- versity Choral So- ciety followed, : conducted by · Matt Ettore. The BU choir has over 40 members. Its program was more serious and filled with slow, eupho- nious .harmony. BU's concluding piece, ••Totus Tuus,\ promised to be long remem- bered forthe array of repeated \Mari- ia's\ at the end. B.etween re- hearsals, the Uni-on choir ex- voices definitely blend. Union stu- dents were hosted by BU Choral Society members who were very amiable tour guides in their enor- mous university (approximately 30,000 students). Afterwards, Some chose to visit friends in the area, munch in an Italian eatery, or catch a ride on the Boston T. The choir enjoyed their stay at BU, and in- teresting stories were shared dur- ing the bus ride back. The next concert of the Union College Choir will be in Motttreal, at St. George's Church, during April of spring term. The choir performed a plethora of pieces in Boston last weekend. plored Boston U. The choir will perform workshy classical, romantic, and contempo- rary composers. Rehearsals have just begun, so if you wish ~o sing with the choir in Montreal, this is your last chance tojoin! Just con- tact Professor Dianne McMullen of the Perfonning Arts Department. The finest musical instrument is the hum.an. voice; let yot~rs be heard! ----------------------------------and the lively city composer interspersed solos throughout the work The solo per- formances were sung by profes- sionals and were amazingly ex- ecuted. The voice of the leading soprano, Alesia Tringale, was so powerfu I that many feared for the chapel's rose windows! Luckily, no shattering sounds were heard and the heavenly melodies were left un- disturbed. The two choirs performed sepa- rately during the first half of the concert. Directed by Dianne McMullen, the Union College Choir sang first. It presented a di- verse program that ranged from Beetho\en's \In Mercy Hear Us, 0 Lord\to a Guadeloupe folksong, the latter featuring Portia Zwicker's solo on the bongos. Overall, Union seemed to touch the audience with zeal andexpression. Performance ofthe Boston Uni.- of which it was a part. Friday night was Rock-and:-Ball night, where the two choirs became bette-r ac- quainted with one another and learned that, in laughter, their Do you want to write News Sto- · ries? Come to a meeting Thursday, Aprill in Room 303 of the College Center. All are welcome. C: \( \Eq \Th W.iti1 com SpOI offi< are aren lege Tl ulty sinc' will are Twc oftll ies Mo~ gua~ beer in g.' way Mar1 A sicfi Frid: Tl frorr fille~ took whic OJ Bare gont Prae lege Arts Bare sore1 is an and celel He com whi< time the l midc M Drei melT Berl desti den, A us man: Mr. chor direc In a~ Char Fin1 ten<l rece in Hou his direc terh cert. T was coffi snac all tl

• •• ~J • / \ Campus News ,... • • t:. ~ ~ \' .. ( .f\' (!Illtt.cn:rukrt,;;is • March ~' 1999 • Page 5 Union Implements Controversial Hiring Scheme by ShaunMontana Staff Writer \Quotas.\ '\Affirmative action.'' \Equal-opportuni employ.er.\ \There aren't enough minorities withjobs here.\ These phrases.are consistently hearc:l in professional sports when coaching and fr<mt- office vacancies arise, Now they are being voiced in a different arena with vacancies: Union Col- legeand it's faculty. The first four vacancies in fac- ulty positions that have come up since March, 199~, have been and will be limited t() candidates who are Latino or African-American. Two professors, Carolyn Mitchell ofthe English and Women's Stud- ies Departmen1s and Daniel Mosquera of tbe Modern Lan- guages Department, have already been hired underthis \targeted hir- ing.\ The decisi<m to act in this way came after a faculty vote in March, 1998. Two-thirds ofthe fac- ulty were needed to approve the idea, and it was successfully passed. A third search, for a .new professor for tile Psychology De- partment, is already underway. There is a second component of this plan that has added to the con- troversy. Witll the passing of this vote, the faculty approved paying these new professors more than is usually given. The reasoning be~ hind this? Bef<ne the vote, new faculty were paid on a scale based on their· prior eKperience. Many well-qualified' candidates who were minorities wen; lured away to other schools who offered to pay many times more what Union would. With these fou.r candidates, there is no restriction on the money of- fered. In an article from the February 23 edition of tlte Albany Times Union, Dean Christina Sorum is quoted as sayi11g, \If we are going to educate st·ildents to have a proper view of11le constituency of this country and redress the effects of racism, we have to do this. It is very imp~rtant for white students tohave minority faculty they can respect.\ In the same article, Dean Brad<Lewis commented on a sug- gestion by some faculty to men- tion thatthe search was'\equal op- portunity\ eve11 though it was epen to only.minotity candidates. \I didn't want to see a phony search that looke:d like equal op.,. portun iry. If you\re notlooking at aU quality candidates, and are only looking at qualifi:~d minority can- didates, you shouldn't fudge it.\ One r.ec.ent search for anew fac- , ulty member did not fall under the targeted hiring. When Professor Dudden of the History Department left In June 1997, a search was started to fill the vacancy. This came before the faculty vote of March 1998, so the four candidates who have been seeking the job are all white females~ Senior Peter Casola was one ofthe students in- volved in .interviewing and ques- tioning aH the candidates. \Personally l think the best can- didate f(;)r the job should l:Je hired,regardless of race, creed, color, sex, or religion,\ he re- sponded, when asked about tar- geted hiring. One of the most vocal oppo- nents to the ,plan has been Profes- sor Terry Weiner, Chair ofthe P<J- litical Science Department. The Times Union has quoted Weiner as saying, \I finditobjectionable be- cause a targeted search excludes people solely because of their ra- cial background .. You automatically cut off90% of your talent pool.'~ He supports diversifying the fac- ulty, but fears it could lead to all kinds of silly distinctions. · \For example, what defines ami- nority? And what about a well· qualified white candidate wh() learns he has been discarded dur- ing a targeted search?\ What if that person decides to sue? Weiner said. The policy could beroeversed in the courts. When asked about the issue, President Roge:r Hull respo11ded by saying: \We have hired t\v() first- rate faculty a11d I expect we ...viii hire two more. By doing this, we are seeking individuals who wiH add diversity as well as be first-rate fac~ ulty.\ To a question of :p-Qssibly continuing targeted hirin~ in the future, President HuH sajd, ~·r hqpe we end up with a climate here that encourages greater diversity in the future. But again, the point I tll ink that needs to be emphasizedisthat we have two first-rate hires .and we willgettwomore. WewiU cl!lntirJUe to aggressively pursue facultywho help in a range of ways.\ Which is more important~ diver- sity or hiring the best candidate regardless of all other factors? The debate on this issue will co11tinue forsometime,but fornow, the rna· jority of the faculty have mac:letheir decision. German Organist Enlightens the Memorial Untangle the World Wide Web Chris Welty Addresses the Complexity ofthe Internet Chapel Audience · ~ ·· · tended had the opportunity to ask · -------------- by Gma Cam~anella Mr. Fink any questions they might StaffWrtter have had. In the afternoon, Mr. A virtual timeline of organ mu- Fink also gave a short lecture on sicfilledMemoriaJChapeJthispast the composers included in his Friday evening. evening program. by Jessie!! Zuehlke Staff Writer There was thunderous app.lause He discussed how each com- The World.Wide: Web is argu~ from an overwhelmingly student· poser has the o.rgan acting as dif- ably the most substantial techno+ filled audience as Ctiristian Fink ferent 'instruments' in order to ere .. · logical initiative within the 2 fst took center stage for his program ate the image t:hr=tt the music was century. Unfortunately, ·for those which began at 8 PM. meant to portray. who have not quite mastered the One could almost picture the To the outside observer, it could · new craze, it is a confusing mess Baroque dance tllat would have have appeared as ifthe majority of of documents, web sites, links, ar- gone along with the first piece, the audience was asleep; however, · tides, and opinions, which is diffi- Praeludium in E. The Union Col- they simply had their eyes closed, · cult to navigate. lege Department of Perform.ing trying to picture in their heads what The popularity<Jf\browsin~ the Arts, as part oftheir celebration of kind of vivid image the composer · web\ bas yielded .quite a number Baroque Dance at1d Music, sp.on- was trying to paint. of programs for the sole purpose sored the concert_ Christian Fink In the program, a small insert was of searching throtJgh the Internet is an organist from Berlin, Germany included explaining what one com- to find web sites matching user in- and his program \Vent beyond the poser was tryin,g to describe in his put. These programs, such as Ya- celebration of Baroque music. music. T~e second to last piece, hoo! and Webcra\.Vler, have made He presented eight pieces, each composed in 1992 by Petr Eben, the \tangled clutter\ tangible and composed at a later date than that was Der Tanz von Jepthas Tochter, much moreuser-friendly. However,. which was played before it. The in English, The Dance ofJephtha's . most of these search engines are time-span of the concert began in Daughter. organized in a hierarchical way that the late 1600s and ended in the This piece w11s an excerpt from a does not always give beneficial or middle 1900s. larger piece, entitled Four Biblical reliable informatio-n to the user. Mr. Fink is a musical director at Dances. In the program insert, There are many ways to \cheat the Dreifaltigkeitskirche and a faculty Eben explains that \[The piece] system\ in order to increas popu- member at Humboldt University in opens with a dance by the maid- larity of the site, thus increasing Berlin. Someofllisrecentconcert ens in which the organ imitates order within the hierarchy. Ac- destinations have included Swe- small percussion instruments such cording to the rules ofYahoo!, the den, Denmark, Hungary, Poland, as the tambourine:\ more times a site is visited, the Austria, the United States and The extended dance is inter- closer it appears towards the top manyotherdestinationsinEurope. rupted by the anticipation of a of the list. This excludes many Mr. Fink has also been on many threatening theme.\ This type of valid, advantageous sites for the choral tours throughout Europe as imagery is that which can only be wrong reasons. director of the Kantorei Lankwitz. experienced in person with a live The ACM (Association ofCom- ln addition to his concert in Old performance. Many of Union puting Machinel)l) was proud to Chapel, Mr. · Colle g.e 's present Chris Welty, PhD., as their Fink at- students firstspeakerasanactivegroupon tendeq a that campus. the goal of the ACM is reception to foster the interest of computing in Hale within the studentbody. House in The national organization of the his honor ere- ACM has been around for over 50 directly af- years and is open to anyone who ter his con- wants to join. Tl!e newly estab- cert. lished chapter 011 campus offers T h e r e musi- students many benefits for a mini- was free trans- mal yearly fee. Such benefits in- coffee and p 0 r t elude subscription to both the regu- Cory Silken./TC snacks and t h r o u g h Jar and student versions of the or- all that at- __ c_n_r_is_tl_·a_n_F:_in_k .... p:...l ..... ay.::..-ed_w_e_ll ..... o_n_S_u_n._d.....;ay;._.·· • time. ganization magazinej said to be the . most comprehensive computer magazine available. Another perk accompanying membership is that of resources and job/internship connections. The ACM also gives each member an email address that never expires. Even though stu· dents can join the ACM on their own, Senior Ehair Jennifer Trotts states that, \It is highly encour• aged that interested students join through the school.\ For more i11· formation about the club, go t() www. vu.union.edu/~acm or email the group at acm@vu.edu. In his lecture on Thursday night in the Olin Auditorium, Chris Welty addressed his ultimate goal. Ideally, he would like to represent things on the web in order to make them more accessible. He reaches this goal through a new search ini· tiative pr()gramertitled \Untangle.\ This program was designed in a quest to create a searching device based ori a variety of information, notjustthe numberoftimesa wor<l appears. The searching tool also ideally reduces the clutter within normal search engines. This web-searching design, named Classic, was developed with the intentions of devising a \Vir· tual Library.\ This is characterized as a searching tool that combines many factors to complete a search rather than just one or more key words. Cross-referen.ced factors include different types and kinds of documents, document formats, and objects such as people an<l organizations. In theory, the Vir· tual Library has the paradigm of visiting any place within a libra1y, just to browse. In order to accomplish this goal, Welty and his co-workers are us- ing the knowledge of News Groups. News Groups such as UseNet allow people interested in a specific topic to research recom- mended sites pertaining to that topic. The recommendations come from a various number of individu· als who send in their input in order to have their suggestions pub· lished within the News Group. News groups are of great ]mpor- tance to Welty and his crew f)e- cause they are the source to which they turn in order to rate well sites. It is assumed that the individllals who have some sort of adv&nced knowledge in a field will offer the most credible recommendatioiJs for Web sites. Classic gets its iiJfQr- mation .from news gtollps to Jist the number of times the site is recom- mended. This type of seaacb .is advantageous because it is 110t merely a listing of sites in abierar- chical fashion, and thus pro'Ves to ri.d search results of a treme11dous - amount of Internet garbage. Welty's work with artificial intel1i- gence has proved to be a major contributor to his plan. Artificial intelligence allows a computer to make a logical, \smart\ decisi<Jn based on the situation. With in this project, by using the recommenda- tions of users who know the field they are critiquing, the computer is making a '\smart\ decisiorubout where to send tile new user. Ales- son Welty has learned ab()ut us- ing artificial intelligence is that ''if you claim to build someth illg as intelligent as a human, you will fail.\ He continued by saying, \You need to start small and add on.\ This is tile reason that Clas- sic relies on the input ofrealiJeople to make a judgment about the fu- turepath ofauser, instead ofmak- ing the choice purely C)n the computer's own. Ideally, Welty wants to \break free from the physical space barriers with i11 a li- brary and store things in tile way they were meant to be stored.\ .Ey this he means documents sbould be cross-referenced and tied to many different key subjects, ob- jects and document types.. His quest to build the ultimate Vi.rtual Library has begun with the initia- ti{:)n of Classic. Hopefully, the popularity of this resourceful de- sign will grow, allowing furti:Jer de- velopment of the supreme searcll- ingdevice.

Page 6 · March 4, 1999 • CO:mu:nrmensis OP!ED Opinions CQncor y Cartoon Irresponsible Make It Worthwhile No After four years at Uni()n, it is front-page story in 1996. Why regardless of the controversy it now seems clear that the Greek should so significant an incident, may incite? The paper cannot system has evolvecl.fre>lll a central one that ha:s provoked such am- serve. its intended function wllile Union College days: filled with 8:30AM chtsses, long lunch lines institution on campus to the per· b ivaleut references (see Lis the editorial staff deliberately uti- at Dutch, midterms and finals just weeks after each other, and some· petrator of all dominant thollght. Kidder's '\G-R-E-E-K Spells Haz- lize it as a mechanism for the sup- where in between,. an ephemeral relief fmm all our college mad- On February 17,. c()n duct ing\ and accompanying cartoon), pression oflegitimate debate. ness. But we must keep in mind thatthis is college, this is supposed charges were filed against Sigma remain unnamed? Ultimately, it is unquestionable to be the time of our lives: one last chance to relish in the play.. Delta Tau for a hazingrituaL The Is it simply because of the Edi- thatthis incident should have been ground before we are dealt the cards of our future. Whatever we Concordiensis <lid fl()t print a tor-in-Chiefs affHiation with the c()vered as news, not as opil1ion learn while passing through this four-year·interrnission between high . single word to elucidateeitl1erthe subject to speculation and bias. school and \real life,\ re111ains invaluable to us and leaves indelible event or its relevance. . The wHiing!less of the Concordy prints both literally and figuratively. Our worn-through, heather- The allegiance. of the .stafftodootherwise, to perpetrate gray Union sweatshirts are the physical remnants. The experiences staff on the Conc()rdy to suppos'\' : rumor and turn their respective of our daily lives and interactions are the non-tangible representa- • · edly peripheral organi2atioons backs on the truth~ does justice to tions. lfthese are days to remember, why de we msh, why do hurry. given rise to an obvi()us • neither Tri Delta nor SOT. Their along and hope for classes to end and hope for the week to fly by •. of interest that has subverted · C{)Hective inability to present the truth. news responsibly, invalidates a.J\Y and the year to pass quickly? Our parents commonly tell stories The inability ofUnion · notion of them as legitimate j()ur• about their younger years with an introduction not of\Once upon a to distinguish betweell ptil>lic in-. nalists and the paper as a venicle time,\ but \Remember when we were in college ... \ formation and private ·interests. of objectivity. So as we are currently in that memory..:making process, we won- the legacy of our unwnerillg loy- implicated organization?Or is the Sincerely, der which of those specific memories we wi H hold fast to and take alty to fraternities .and sororities. clench of Greek life so .strangling with us to keep in our future box of memories. Is it that one remark- No longer does. tile Co 11 cor<i& as to preclude legitimate dis- able class where we actually Jet our minds become so in tune with a even pretend to maintain objectiv- course? Are these editors attempt- lecture that we lost our sense of time? Is that the same class where ity when dealing with the schism ing to implicate the entire Greek the things we learned meant more than the final grade? Or, is it the between Greeks and indepe11dents. system byportrayingTri Delta and professor of that same class who was more than a lecturer, but a Theinapp.ropriatereprodlJcti()n s•gmaDeltaTau'soffensesasem- person in whom We found friendship and guidance inside and out- of a cartoon drawn in specific re,.. bodying the school's impotence side that classroom? sponse to Delta Delta Delta~ s con- againstthe illegalities of the G~ek When seme people refer to their col lege memories, they will start duct charges ofl9~6 i llustratestbe system? their stories with \Remember when we were in college ... \ and con- Concordyleadership'swilling;ness To implicate Tri Delta for tinue to vividly recall not the academic impact of Union, but the to discard journalistic impartiality SDT's charge is an absurdity. slightly wild side. Those nights when we were far from studying, in the face ofrele\'!antne-ws;. Shouldn'tthe student body's only and learned more about social interactions than any sociology class . It should be n<lted that Jared mechanism for public discourse could have ever taught us. We might remember the nights that lasted Richman's a deal d' with the issue at hand, N.Scott Stedman Larry Gutman Class of 1999 Editor's Note:An article covering the hazing incident was not run .in last week's issue because th£ specifics of the situation were .not yet known. In the interests of preventing inaccuracies a11d providing a more comprehensivl! and complete article, a s/Qt'Y covering thf! i11cident was delayed until this week. into the morning even though we may not be sure of the detailed context of conversations we had. But :we will remember the free- What We :Chose: The Not So Mindless Masses dom of it all, the ability to live outside the boundaries of a bedtime Amidst the cha<Js of end of the and \real life\ responsib-ilities. term finals, papers and;l11y beloved Never again in our lives will our daily schedules permit such free- senior thesis 1 am ,taki11g the time doms. Whether we are geing to graduate school, the working world to defend sometlllng: llov~ the or taking time to decide what to do with our prestigious liberal arts Greeks. Don't get the wrong,] atn education, the actions we take will be affected by the choices made . JlOf saying .that we are itlr arraazing while at Union. Our time at college f1 ies by quickly and before we people with halos fbating over our know it graduation gowns are being ordered and we are forced to heads, because we are not. And I look at the big picture in all respects. We are forced to acknowledge am not saying that everyone the history of our time here from a blank transcript to the coales- shou.ld love and support us, cence of a full transcript~resume, cover letter, and graduateschool because they shouldn\t. But application that is a summation of our academic lives here. Although before you bash the Oneks, take these aren't the memories we find in picture albums or late-night a moment to think. Think about how the merni:Jers reminiscence with college friends, these are the only documents that of these organizations are yot~r prove our college existence. peers, intelligent y'()Uilg mell and: But after we leave. it is not our college transcript that we dig out women a lot like you. Wea;r~ n()t ofourclosets to share, but instead a tumbling ofwords and conver- mindless masses waiting for a individuals whose hearts and minds have led us to these organizations where we have found what is right for us. The truth is, no one but the ·membets\tlremselves know what goes on behind the closed doors of our houses. Most people do not think about the friendships and bonds that form between the women and men in these organi- zations. Truth is, you see what you wanttosee, be it love or hate. And there is very little that I can do or say to change your mind. B~fore you judge us please keep in mind that we are far from the beer guzzling, fat circling ogars you think we are. We are a group of individuals who are intelligent and human . We did not forsake our sense of right and wrong when we became Greeks. We did not join a cult, we joined a fami'ly. We. joined houses. beCl!;USe it w.as·:th~·right ·dec-ision 'for u·s, it is what we wanted. And we are free to make it as large or as small a part of out; lives as we please. If Oreek life is not for you tlut is fine. And ifyou find us anlloy- ing and childish that is fine t()o, sometimes we are. But rememb-er we are all where we are because it is what we have chosen, Greek or not. Sincerely, Lindsay Deak Member of.SDT sations from our last night at Chet's, our last all-nighter, and our last messiah in the f<lrm <lf Greek Springfest. Since we haven't reached those last moments just yet, letters to show us tbe lighL we we must be cognizant ofthe memories in the making. are fun lovi k.ind hearted Pa~cip~ingin~nco~ens~h~beenaprice~Hexperienceili~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- h~affordedusnumerousopportunitiestogrow.individually~edi- Phi Sigma Kappa Sorry For Recent Actions tors and collectively as a staff. Along with the academic and social aspects of college, we will also remember tile extracurricular hours, The Brothers of Phi Sigma particularly here, that kept us on the third floor of the college center Kappa would like to extelld an· · apology for recent actionsthattmay until dawn. But those extra hours, outside of classes and parties, will leave us with· memories of unforgettable press nights, fits of have offended the camJJus C()m· caused over the last couple of weeks. Our recent actions in no way reflect our opinions towards women or authority on this cam- pe{)ples minds when they consider what Fhi Sigma Kappa has to ()f- fer tbe Union Community. Sincerely, munity. stress that led to fits oflaughter and friendship outside of our regu- We sincerely regret any trou:ble The Brothers ofPhi Sigma Jar social circles. or had feelings that we may have pus. It is our sincere hope that recent events will not be foremost on We count the weeks by the issues of this newspaper and wonder 1------------------------------------------K_a_pp __ a _____ _ what will be the measure of our days and weeks in that \real world\ that lies ahead. As Editors-in-Chief of Concordiensfs, a large por- tion ofthe memories we \viii take with us occurred within the walls of Room 303. And some of our most meaningful college memories are found within the pages of past editorials, past heartfelt columns, and even news briefs that .left a strong impact. We wil1 remember this. Our memory boxes are already filled with fresh newsprint that will yellow in following years. The journalistic integrity earned from a buzzing newsroom, however, will hardly be tainted by the effects of time. We chose to create these memories .. As co.llege students, your conglomeration of academic and social memories are still forming. giving you the opportunity to pick and choose what is really important to take with you to the \real world.\ Make your memories wisely. When you think about the phrase. \Remember when we were in college ... \consider if what you are doing right now is worthy enough to end that sentence. Stephanie Slob()tkin & Michelle Thain Editors-in-Chief Tri-Delt Unappreciative ofConcordy Cartoon In response to last week's car· toon, we would liketo e1<press <lur deep disappointment with The Concordienses. It tlueatened the jumalistic integrity .ofthepaperto allow such slander t<> be ptitlted. In the Spring of 1996, Tri-Delta was guilty of hazing, In) ieu ()four chapter's national suspension .and ejection from Union C()]lege,. we have worked dilige11tly toreestab- !ish ourselves. Having been edu- cated in the extremely dangerous consequences of hazing the sisters a house, we have fought our way back into good standing with the admittistration and shoul dnot be of Delta Delta Delta have returned undermined by the ignorance ()fa to campus, reorganized around a strictly enforced-NO HAZING policy. We find it incredibly insult- ing and unfortunate that the Concordy allowed a dated cartoon to Jabel us as trying to \closer\ haze. We have nothing to hide. As dated cartoon. Sincerely, The Sisters dDelta Delta Delta ( p a s S] a ... s e ft d C1 I: ir p lc If Vi al a1 e• dl m th dt w e~

<!r.onctlrni:en9il> •March 4, 1999 · Page 7 0 • • tntons Inaccurate Term Abroad Article As a participant in Union's term abroad to Vienna, Austda J can write with great confidence that your assessment of the terms abroad process as \unfair\ is not universally true. What needs to be refonned about the terms abroacl processes are the attitudes of those who believe the processes are un- fair, that terms abroad are a right guaranteed to all students, and that the standards are too high.·. Let me first address the notion that the process is unfair and com- plicated. Just as any upper~level course .has pte .. requisitesj so too do the terms-abroad courses. Students are not al- lowed to take 1 00-level courses until the core-courses are completed so they can suc- cessfully master the curricula of the higher-level course. Just because the comses are taught in other cities does not mean the pre-requisites should be abandoned. The process is simple: take \the pre-requisites and write a kick-butt essay. If you're not a strong writer, keep re-writing the essay until it can compete with one that is well-written. Anyone whose desire to participate is strong enough will treat the pro- cess with the seriousness it de- servesthrough achievement. Isn't that how we were admitted to the College in the first place? · Second, just because one has the . potential t<,> parti~;ipate in a 'teriiJ abroad does nof mean one is as., sured a place. Your pointthat pro- spective students become excited gmms is well-taken. I was one of those students whose decision was greatly influenced by .the chance to study in Freiburg, Gennany or Vienl)a, Austri.a. However, par- ticipating in. terms abroad is a pdvil~ge, not a right guaranteed by admission to Union College. Sony,. but no one ever represent~d this fact to me differently. Anyone who inferred that right is painfully naive. That's like say- iNg the adm inistrathm and faculty shoul,d guarantee each graduate a job j_ust forgraduating; or A's just for slto~ing ~p. Third, the minimum GPA stan., dards greatly increase the chances that students will participate irt the programs for academic reasons- not just \to get the hell out of Sche11eetady.\ Of course I had a great time in Europe. Of course I leamed tremendous lessons out- side tl!e classroom in addition to in my struqtured courses. How- ever,. n<! one in my term abroad was even close to failing any of our classes. Classes were small, and one time. I can recall very few classes that I have taken-except for the upper-level courses with multiple pre-requisites-.·. in which the students' commitment to aca- demics was as high. Furthenm>re, the participants in the Viem1a tenn toQk classes at a school attended by students frol}1 across America. As ambassadors, in a sense, to our new teachers. and other students, .the things we said and did inside ctnd outside of classes reflected the caliber of all Union College stu- dents. Clearly the high perfor- mancerateand mature behav- ior resulted from strong aca- demic commitment that mini- mum GPA standards demand~ In summary, the term abroad programs are riot en~ titlerrients, but privileges for those who reflect the values ofthe college, such as excel- lence, determination, and character. Those who want to participate badly enough will strive for excellence and dem- onstrate character--even if it means sacrificing some nights of partying to study, or remaining p{)Sitive and steadfast if placed on the waiting listed. Preserving the terms abroad for those who meet tbe minimum standards is cons is- · tent with what got us all in here in tile first place. Relaxing standards to let anyone who wants to go- regardless of ability-is not and slJould not be assoc.iated with l)nion College. ,;_ 1 S,J11cerely, U 1\'\ii:N . . tb~t 'faj)e . : ,1' ,;\i·c'Jlil:tJ)lYOO.:Er\a1~ ·t:lJJtS· sehool · ... · .. ' • .. ·.· .• ' ~e .aie .. a c.onfidential r:··,:.·:s1llpfY6Ft\_~f0ltf>~:.~fCJF ¥idin1S'· ancl caring . . . ·· · ·• ,·' · ·: :, · ·· . friends·: ·.· . · · · ·Safe· ~tl~})~·e .. is lle.e to listen. ·S,afe Sp·aiee ·B·eep·er # 1-800-2·83-2255 pin: 11349 C'all anytime and so·meone will be there for you. <lio:n.cnrbiengis The Student Newspaper oj Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Stephanie Slobotkin - Micllelle Tham EDJTORS-JN-CH!EF Jennifer Pelose EXECUTIVE EDITOR Eugene Schultz FEATURES EDITOR Elisabeth Kidder OPINIONS EDITOR Brooke Barylick Jim DeWan NEWS EDITORS ,, David Brooks Brian Terlinsky SPORTS EDITORS Paul D' Annibale Cory Silken PHOTO EDITORS Erik.a Mancini EDiTORIAL CARTOONIST Victoria Hargreaves SCIENCE & TECH EDITOR A.d=trn-Paul Smolak WORLD NEWS EDITOR Jaime Chandler Joli I<els()n MichaelS. McGuire COPY EDITOR Union Fights Domestic Violence Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Lori Greene Kimberly Rohback A & £EDITORS DaBielle Devine Arna11da Jackson ADVERTISEMENT COORDiNATORS by Lis Kidder Opinion Editor According to the YWCA of Schenectady, a woman is beaten every 15 seconds in America. Almost twenty-five p.ercent of female .homicide victims. are mur- dered by their mates. This week, Union College contributed to the war against Domestic Violence· by support- ing the Clothesline Project. This project, run by the YWCA, .al- lows victims of domestic vio- lence to make a tee shirt, on which they write a message about violence against women and children. Many simple messages said everything in a few lines; \Why does your love hurt so much?\ \I want to live in a safe environ- ment away from violence.\ \Bones heal faster than hearts\ Children designed shirts saying things like, \I am only a child. l don't deserve this.\ Drawn on one powerful shirt was a stick figure with two black eyes and the word \help.'' The clothest:ine stood on the fourth f1oor ofthe College Center for several days this week, and then was moved downstairs to the Dutch area so the student body could more easily view it. At Union College it is easy to lose sight oftbe real World. It is easy to pretend problems like do- mestic violence away._ However, domestic vi{)lence happens in· \A woman is beaten every .. 15 seconds in · America. \ Schenectady and it h\appens at Union College. Perhaps it is not as prevalent a problem at Union, but it does occur. Domestic violence is not limited to any race ,or class of people. It crosses all socioeconomic lines. Many women do not know that tbey areheing abused. This prob- ably seems strange to those of us .. .. ' who have never been abused, but lJpon a closer look, it is obvious PHOTOGRAPIIERS: Rick Leder.er, Sloan Miller, Dave!\teguerdichian, Maura why this is the case. Woessner. • Domestic violence is an intimate STAFF Matt Aronowitz, Jeffrey Ausfeld, Mary Kate Aveni, Adam Bergeron, Lisa Blaustein, Anne Bishko, Jessira lkcarton, HoUy B11rnside, Gina Campanella, John crime. It happens in the home, Carbone, Kevin Carter, Heather Clements, Jay Connelly, Mike DiMicco, Mary Which is Supposed to be a safe ha- Felton, Heath fradkoff, Julie Gardner, Jon Casthalter, Matt Gendron, Sarah \Veil. Women who are abused by Harsh, Courtney Hayden, 1\lil<elge.r, Jon KelslJn, Daniel Kelhmanovich, Dan Kirsch, titeir partners feel ashamed, as if Jordan Lippman, Caitlin Loureiro, Sloan :\Iiller. Shaun Montana, Stephen :'liemeth, tltey have done something wrong,. Brian Roac.he, fd Rodriguez, Steve Schuler, .\damShebitz, l.ouisa Stephens, Rory Stern, Jon Tapper, Mike Winn, Ben Yaffee, Joh11 Z:and man, Jessica Zuehlke, Portia 111 many cases, instead of finding · Zwicker. help, they attempt to change~;.;.;.;;.;;..;.;;.;.;..;__ ____________________ ., their behavior to stop the abuse. The prob tern is, it is not their be- havior that needs to be changed. It is their partner who is wrong. The YWCA defines \red fl:ags\ that a partner may become allusive. The list includes, \someone afraid oflosing there- lationship; someone who blames otlters for what he does; some- OI1e who has a temper; someone who is cruel to animals; some- one who is very possessive and S()meone who insults their partner, tn.en says, 'just kidding' or 'you're to() sensitive. 1 \ Luckily, eighty-five to ninety percent of men are nonviolent. fl()pefully, some of the remaining te11 percent of violent men were hl«Jved by the Clothesline Project's display in the College Center. Letter Policy & Disclaimer Letters to the Editor should be addressed_ to the OPIED and must be received by 5 PM the Monday before ......... Ju .. , .... ,.v .... Letters must be less than 500 wprdsan4i should pertai'n to ani that concerns the Union College community. Final aec~ISJ<)n~ concerning printing and/or editing a Sllbrnission belong to Editorial Board. All letters must be- signed and saved on a density disk~ although the author's name need not appear in newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not ne<~es:san reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. · Editorials reflect the opinion ofa m~tj~rity ofthe Editorial tlmrru~ and of no one member in particular. Any opinion columns cartoons reflect- the opinions of tbe writers or artists, and necessarily the opini<;>ns ofthe Bdit()r.ial Board. Advertisements appearing in Conct>tdiensis do notne,ces:sru·uYI ........ J~\''\'\ the opinions of the Editorial Board. Concordiensis nri .. ,t.,.r.t· by World Media~ 1104 Central Avenue, Albany,

PageS quote a song a long strange trip it's been.\ At the end ofthis. term I will have been writ- ingforthis paperforsixte~s. For three ofthose terms I have been the editorofthis the Features sec- tion. But now that winter term is rapping up, I will he stepping away from the p~per for awhile. Now l know for some of you, this announcement caries little or no meaning. For others, this an- nouncement will bring you much joy. These people are the people who can't stand my rambling week after week. To them I say, enjoy the paper without me in it. I hope _that a writer will come.along that \\'ill offer you articles that you find more interesting than the drivel that I write. The last group, are the students who for some reason look forward to my article every week. These are my hard core fans; the people who for some reason or another under- stand by sense of humor and get the subtle nuances that are in Riding the Pine. These are also the people, however, who approach me, and yes, even yell at me when I have not written in the past. To these people I offer them this, have no fear l will be returning in the fall. So then why take a break? The answer to that question is an easy one. l am going on a tern1 abroad. I have been picked as an ambassador of Union College and Three words: I'm so tired. Lately, it seems like you can't have a conversation with someone with- out this phrase being mentioned. Even me, the conversational ge- nius, falls victim to overuse of these three little words: I'm so tired. Sometimes people don't even realize they're saying it. I've seen several zombie-like students walk past me in the CC, mumbling those three words. They probably don't even realize that they're do- ing it. Are you tired? I sure am. I've been trying to figure out why this campus is going through a term of the living dead. Here's a couple facts to support my obser- vations: l) It's winter term, and we get less sun than Alaska. 2) It's winter term, and we all stay in- doors, unless we go out to party and fornicate. But that's at night. 3) Sun=Good. 4) We all want to stay up late and chill with our friends. I could be wrong, butmost people here procrastinate indefi- nitely, and have strange sleeping habits. Hence, complete and utter zombieness. The problem is that it's not just winter term. By the eighth week of every term, the \I'm so tired\ grumbling can be heard all over campus. One theory ofmine is that the new Union bottled water is actually not water. It's an experi- mental substance loaded with Co- deine, and Union is taking a fat States to represent school and country in Florence, Italy. I just have one thing; to say; what in the world were they think- ing? For those of you who know me, think about that above state- ment. The school chose me to go to a foreign country and represent it for ten weeks. Do you know the ste\ reotype that foreigners have of people from the United States? Well, if you don't, let me help you out. They view us as overweight lazy slobs. Does this remind you of anyone? No me neither, l can't think ofa single person going to Italy that fits tllat stereotype. (For those Union students who missed the sarcasm in that last statement, I was of course referring to me. I am the one. who fits the stereo- type.) • This, however, brings me back to my original point. Getting to this point in my career as a writer and editor for Concordiensis has been a strange, strange adventure. (For , those of you who have small chil- drenin the room or get easily emo- tional, I suggest at this point that you place the paper down and slowly back out of the room.) I know that this is an overused cli- che, but the editorial staff up here on the third floor of the- Campus Center is like one medium-sized dysfunctional family. We even have the Uncle that no one likes to check from the government to ex- periment on their students. See what happens when an entire stu- dent body falls victim to receiv- ing an exorbitant amount of de- pressants. Since this is not a vi- able option, I can only come up with one explanation. BLAME IT ON THE TRIMESTERS. While we do take less classes at once, squeezing 5 weeks out .of a cur- riculum leads to a thicker concen· tration of work. Which in turn leads to less overall sleep. What- ever, I'm rambling. I'm a junior and J still have not witnessed the supposed benefits of the trimes- ters. I lost two opportunities for internships this summer, because we finish so late. Blah Blah Blah. I'm too tired to finish this thought, so .... Now to the letters. I have been told that I don't put enough effort into answering the letters. Some of the letters leave room for ex- tensive comments, but r m just too tired to think about it. Maybe you' II like my responses this week. By the way, this is the last issu.e of the term, and in retrospect, my column was weaker than it's ever been. I promisetobe myself again next term, and put in the effort that I did last year. But don't hold me to that. \Dear Matt, your father and I are so disappointed with you. Honey, it's just that we have a It is strange because all the iime now a days:,. you hear abou1 how this gr<:)up is like a \big family\ or \these p(lo.p le are like my faro il y :\ 'this is because we do act like one. The majo.rity of the thne we get aJ.ong up here. Every once in awhile, however, fists are thrown, tempei·s rise, a disk flies through the air and smacks you upside the head. AHpretty normal stuff, well except for the disk part. All stuff that happ~n s with your real fam- ily. We j:oke around with each other all fhe time. the atmosphere up here is very candid. At times you catch your~ selfsay,ingthings that in a miLlion years no {)1\e would ever think would he' sa;id out loud. The even cooler part iis that we can 'lallgh at ourselve~. We hWve- a wall, well every building !las: a wall The important thing is v.ihaiis on this wall When one of us .i.I.p here makes an im- pressively witty, or Vile, or just such a random, out-of-the-blue statement, we honorthat perscn by placing their comment on thewall as a sort of reward for creativity. We encourage each other,just 1ike a real famjJ:;y does. We of course disparage ei:l!ch other just as much, but h€)' that is life. · Tile· edftorial staff is also cool because, as students, we all know what similar hell the person sitting problem wjtJ? spending $32,000 a year on yotrwr iting a silly cofumn, and whoringyourseif out on week- ends. Why can't you be more like your straig!'!t edge, prude sister? Signed. Momma Aronowitz\ Shut up. \Dear MaJt, I am a Frosh. I read in the orlenJatfon brochure that Union provides a fun; exciJing, diverse experience. I am still wait- \First off, you should scrape some bac- teria off of a Beer- Pong ball. '' ing. Signed, I>isappointed\ Go away. \Hey Mait,. fs it just me, or has it been gettff1gharder too open the doors to enil~r the Olin building, lately? Stgne!d, Hercules\ You suclc. \Matt holfl do you feel about Union h uyiJ'lg those Sew.atd houses? Signed, Bi-Curious'~ Ask some()ne who gives a damn .. next to you · e can understand wily the p1HSon heading towards the win<lew wants to jump Qllt ·Of it. lt' s a.ls.o the same reason vVby we no Io11ger keep the office gu11loaded. It a]s:tJ says a lot for why when I come:iDt<> the office like a ra:ving Iunati(;, why .J pretty much get i~nored. So honestly wha.1 is the poitit·()f this long dawn ()Ut article? rhe point, people, is; tO· get involved. The majority pf oa111pus wid.ec:lL1!)S offer you great op-portunities.Coll- cordiens is takes o11e night a '1'/e:el< of my time; What I getoutont far and a-way adds to that experience. I look fur•· ward to Tuesd_ays.because: ,J blovv that I wiH be putti11g my time a.Jlq ' effort into an .e11d~avor that :!J.a.s · greatrewards. Not only do weptr,t outaproducrtthat ,isre<!.dby ni11ety : percent of this· c-atnptts, ) get c(O spend a night wit~ fun pe~ple:. I would haz?rd to sty that you c::an get this same sort <Jf feelings ottt of whatever you decide to do_ Freshman, you are. the futul'e. In the spring, ru11 f(i)r board })O~i-­ tions in the clubs tl!at you are in.. Or if you are not ina club join o11e:. We have eighty-fcur dubs on this carnpus, not inclt~ding intranruE\a.l sports. You can find somethi11g, that you Hke to d(}o. If you Call 't, then start your oYVn club. That .is the beauty Qfth is· school. Sophomores, 111e same tlting \Dear Matt, Nfyroommate anci I attract many mE!Il. So manJ0 i12 fact, that our nicknames .t~re \sluts.\ We usucd[y hook-up 012 different days of lile weekend so the other can have her privacy. JJ~t rec{3ntly, we have e.ome into co'i- flict. If I want so1Y2e booty, I wai'Jt it bad Samefor her. So we agr~erl that we don't m iJul if the othu is- in the room, goitr$ at it. Do :J!GIIf think the boys YJ!ould minrf? r mean, we 're not gof11g to lock lip:; with each other for- the hays; ~()' they can't get ofl.(Jn two giT[.;s. Sorry - I went Q/f~n a tangent ~ who am I? So anyway; do you tkirik they could conaerzlrate when ifle moans are coming.from across i!'le room? Signed, Th~ Best a Mern Can Get'' What's your n urnller? \Hey Matt, You .send me otu email all semester and its a mon~ making scheme? '[()ZJ bastard. 1'J/ write you a lo11ger kiter soon, !'b1 busy. Hope you are well. -Eric'\ Sorry. 1 don't know how tltis one got in here. \Dear Matt, O~te of my rofFJ'tl• mates is always steccling my stuff. So far this year, sile's stolen ell>'• erything from fo(J.d to tampo'ir.. She always says .;she'll rf!!p/(lc~ whatever she took, but she neve-J' does. What do you suggest I tlo? Asking· her nicely to replace 1'11)! things hasn 1 t wor/\ed. I think J: need to do somethi'ig a lit(le' mc;~te ~ .I l ~ 1, ·• i I ~'' ~ ( .J l l £ .l ;I ! I• •I goes your .· as stay in that apathetic state that yoa are in. College is only four years and you resume needs activities 011 it. People like to see that you are well .rounded. So here is a sugges• tion: stop playing Bond for eleven hours a day and only play for seven. With those free four hours you can invest them in a worth· while activity. J,uniors~ it is not to -late. Well fm: some of yo.LJ .it is, ;but for those few of yoa out there, you can still benefit. Do somethingdse beside drink. Seniors, sorry to say but you guys are a:Ujust lost causes. . So my final bit of advice to all of you out there is this: don't fall in the trap that so many :others at this school have f<:tll~n prey to. Be opeQ minded and j(i)in a club and be a leader. It is not painful and trust me, it will not affect your im- age, That ,js it for Riding the Pine not forever, but just a short hiatus for now. 1 mean please I hope that you all don't ex:pect me to write from Italy. Wellm&ybejustonce. I hope that everyone has a great Spl\ing Break. Come hack nice and tan and prepare for that famous Schenectady spring. Have a good Spring· Term~ we all know.- it is tbe best, ·so party hard in my. absence. [''IJ be back in the Fall and I look- drastic. Sincerely, Sick of Steal:. ing\ First off, you should scrape some bacteria off of a Beer-Pong ball. There's probably hundreds of nasty things lurking in a single teaspoon of that stuff. Buy a box of \decoy\ tampons. Coat each one in the bacteria. Seal the wrap• pers back up, and leave 1hem out for her pleasure. For the shampoo, find some fermented LSD that has lost the correct chemical make-up. Drop in a vial ofthat stuff. Your problems should be over, soon. \Dear Matt, Myname is Zorkon. I am from the planet Kismias. I read your column eveiY week to learn more about your species. Your institution sounds like a very interesting, deep, and exciting place .to be. My superiors will be interested to learn that the Planet Ewth is ho~t to such marvelous creation, with such a developed sense of realfty. But we'll prob- ably blow up your planet anyway. Signed, Zorlcon \ ~ Hmmm .... How high were YOU when you wrote this? ''Dear Matt, I was wondering if you could send me a brochure of the female pre-law students attend- ing Union College. Signed; Presi- dent William Jefferson Clinton. P. S.1 like brunettesii I \ Props to whoever wrote this one. Could it have been one of Union's beloved Young Republicans? ·I ( i ~ j- , 1 !·1 I \ :' ' I ( y ' \. f t• .

Features dtllllWrbien;eit'E • March 4, 1999 · Matty G's Last Dance by Matty G Staff Writer Before i talk about the hockey situation, I would like to summa- rize some of my key points of the pastterm. First; the money we-pay towards Dining Services not only goes to DS, but it also generates :revenue that goes to other aspects of the cot:lege, and this practice offends me. It is a practice used in all of the departments that deal with students, as the managers are given a certain amount ofni.oney, and told to return so much above what they were given, so they need to raise these funds from the stu- dents. Secondly, if the Conve· nience Store is charging the low- est prices they can, then we need a new system, maybe inviting in Chopper to open a .mini-chopp_er on campus [RDK]. Last week, I was remiss in leaving off Rupsi 's Tavern frommybarreview, as this is the best happy hour around. If it gets packed in there this Friday, I'm sorry, but that''s why lleft it off the list. Finally, I appreciate all those people who have come up to me to compliment my work ever the past two terms, and would like to thank them. I would like to thank the six se- niors on the Union College Hockey Team alo11g with the rest of!he team for some good memo- ries, and some fun times this year. Next year, I pledge to be louder, have more signs, and paint my face, because every ~good team has a face-painter in their crowd. It'd also be great if Union could get a bus forstudents to follow the team to some of the away games, be- (;ause.some ofusdosavorthever- bal conflicts we get at a game. at RPI or at Harvard. While the games are fun, there are definite elements missing from each game. When Cornell brought their pep band as well as 30 screaming fans, I was embarras~ed to support Union because their 20 out-cheered our 2000 fans. Sure, I lost my voice in the first period cheering on the team, and got in a few shouting matches with Cornell students (nerds), but throughout the game, I kept saying to those unfortunate enough to sit next to me, how much Utl'iOn needs a band. At any pointtlleycan drown out the crowd, and get their team and fans into the game. Along the same lines, there are some other changes our school. needs to work on; First, get a Pub- lic Announcer that can get into the game. An example of what I want can be found in the Pepsi Arena during any River Rat home game, as the Announcer shouts \RIVER RAT POWER PLAY\ each time there is a penalty on theotherteani, n~t just announcing the penaLty and time. That is an integral part of getting the crowd into it, be- cause he also interrupts any chants the students are doing at that point in time. I rnyselfwas interrupted in taunting the Cornell band at least four times, until I got tired of it, and waited for the ? A guy to fin- ish. By the time he's done, the chants no longer are as effective, and stjng the other team less. Have you ever gone to a sport- ing event where music was used to pump the crowd up? I have, and it can be-quite effective in getting the crowd stit'Fed up. \We Will Rock You\ should be used after a gmd to demoral:ize the other team ot used to get your team and fans whipped into a frenzy, not ran- dom.ly through<mt the game. \Where did you c<>me from where did you go\ is as()ng I enjoy danc- ingto, but its not helping the crowd get into the gam~ .. The person in charge of the music has to get a clue and try to work with the people in the crowd that are inter- ested in the game and have some spirit. \Fourth I would like· . school spon- sored busses , that follow the team to a w a y games.\ Now I shall discuss the problem that the fans present to the rink. First, ifl'm up leading a chant, and another guy tells me to sit down bemuse he can't see, I'm going up and getting him. He has no place on our side of the ice, and should go to the opposing side if he doesn't want to support the team. Two weekends ago, some of my fraternity brothers who go to school in Canada came to visit Union and we of course brought thein to the two hockey games. These guys, who don't have a school hockey 1eam, knew what they were doing at a hockey game. They started the first and only wave I had ever .seen at a Union hockey game, .and got alL the people around us into it. It was fabulous, as they gave structure to our rabid cheering. At RPI, they have a BIG RED FREAKOUT every year, while Union doesn't seem to have anything to get the students into the tea:m or the game~ During my time here, I've only seen one pep-rally, and that was for football. I understand that no one would show up because we are an apathetic student body, but there must be something someone can do for us. If you have ideas on how to get the student body in- terested, send them to qox 758, and maybe we'll get something done. Finally, the administration is al~ ways-asking us how they can help us make the school a better place. I have a short list. First, find us a pep-band. Word is last year we tried to erganize one on campus, and it didn'twotk out. Well; bor- row one from Niskayuna ot Schenectady HS or even from one of the Catholics:chools in the area. Who cares where they are from? We'll tluow some Union shirts on 'em, and make 'em play, and ev- eryone will be happy. Second, if you want us to be a happy and docile campus, let us take out some aggression during the games. I was recently very disappointed when I had heard that certain · members of the Dean of Students office had approached sections of by Jon Zaildman the Camp11s Community and asked StajfW-,iter them to tone down their cheering As these redpes IJegin to have at the games. This is school spirit, and there have only been two· more bite, I woultlsimply like to groups at hockey games that get . remind everyone that all of my into tbe games, and they botll hap- tasty creations are written solely pen to he fraternities. Ifthat's the: for YQUr palpable an.C satirical en- only spirit thatthe school can find, • joyment. They are not meant to it'll have to do, but don't restrict offend anyone, but J'ather simply them in tlteir expression of emo- to offer political commentary on tion at games. the state of affairs here at Union Third, get a new PA and Music • and give you interesting new foods Director for the games. 1 know . to try out. That sai<l,.. here we go: some people who would might be interested in those positions, but go out and get ones that are in touch . with people in the under 40 crowd .. Fourth, I would like school spon- • sored busses that follow the team · to away games. Lastly, Dave, Brooks wrote a fabulous piece in · last week's i~sue ofthe Concordi- ensis about Scholarships, and I would like to echo what he said. He made many good points, but I · would like to stress the fact that · we don't feel our team isn't good. J love our team, and I love rooting them on, but if the other teams in our conference are doing it, we're going to have more seasons with three wins (! count the Niagara game as a win). The guys on are teams are a gritty bunch that plays with a lot of heart, but that only takes you so far. In addition to that, wordaroundthehocke~. camp · is that we don't have anyone lined up to replace the guys. we're los- ing, as we only have two verb&! commitments. Something must be done, andlets do it before we can't contend at all. This is my last article for the year here at the Concordy, and I don't think I'm going to miss writ- ing. Maybe I'll get inspired next year, but unt-il then, This is Matty G signing off. I have struggled through the pastthree terms of school, fought through sleepless nights to pro- duce a n.ewspaper that maybe no one really knows the true value of. It is my last issue as Editor-in- Chiefand it feels like the wind has been knocked out of me. For so long now, my life has consisted of the world inside Con- cordiensis' newsroom. It is funny how much of my heart I give to the ink-covered pages of the newspaper. I don't know what made me choose to take on this responsibility, but it has been the single m<ist important decision of my college life. Coming here as a part ofthe Medical Program, I thought I would not have to be involved in anything other than my school- work, leaving me free time for friends and leisure. For some rea- son, though, I decided to utterly stress myself out and hold a posi- tion that would consume my en- tire life at college. My parents wish I would have never become Editor-in-Chief; Hockey Aid Paduge , (1 season) co11rtesy of Union College 1-old rink, quarter full 1 conference win l androgynous mascot cheering fer you l hopping city ()financial aid Tllis recipe is ~ real winner. How could any prospective hockey player not '\Vant to cook up fottr years at Union with these in- gredients? l'llough it may hoe a tad more e~pensive, perhaps we should con- sider sweetening ~!>' the program with a little sprinkle of financial aid'? All the other cllefs are doing it ... Sclmrick S11rpris;e (One really long.uight) conrtesy of the JFC I Greek House I Angry Pledge ~'Educator\ 8-20 Pledges I 0 Kegs, Beast I <:e I Branding Iron Several large wooden paddles* l-2 Sheep *(lettering optio11al) Apply all il1.gredients to pledges. Wait for phone call. they think it is too much strain and cuts into too mucll of my time. And they are absolutely right. The newspaper suffocates and envel- ops my every waking moment. It has caused my grades· in every class to drop, my fi'iends to ques- tion my existence dtuing the days between Sunday an.d Tuesday, and left me weary from lack of sleep. Yet, I have done this to myself and there is no regret. What I have learned from push- ing myself to my utrnost limits is more valuable to me than any 4.0 GPA or perfect score on a Biol- ogy exam. Sometimes life presents you with more than seems possible to juggle. But there is always a way to find a balance. I believe that tllere has to be more to life than reading maga- zines and watchingtelevision. My parents used to tell rne I was lazy in lligh school be(;aUse I had so much free time. I would be livid at their comments and tell them that part of life v.ras also about fin<liilg time to re]a.:x. It is funny how much I have c:banged _since Disco Cheese Fries (3-4 Minutes) 1 plate of fries 9 slices of cheese Tons o' gravy 1 coronary* *(optional, but probable) This greasy dish of saturated l()ve will definitely satisfy your calorie cravings. Fully cover tile greasy fries with the cheese slices and nuke for a minute or two. Heap on the gravy and call EMS to pre- pare for eminent heart fililure. Sophomore Rush (3 years) . CENSORED CENSORED CENSORED CENSOREO Well, on second tho11ght, per- lups I should wait till ne.xt tenn to pulJlish my recipe for this sizzling serving. The last time I tried my lland at this one, it almost exploded all over the place. I'm trying to find a different take on this <!ish, and until I do, I'll refrain from sharing my combustible fonnula. Thanks for reading al&ng this term. The coming ten weeks promise to bring even more acrid and sour concoctions as this col· umn becomes less and less of a coCJkbook and more of a bitter commentary on the political land· scape of our school. Till then, you can look forward to such exotic morsels as Diver- sity Souffie, Hook-Up Delight and Scrambled Ellis. As always, if you have any nasty comments, creative suggestions or interesting recipes, feel free to submit them_ Have a great spring break and happy cooking. then. Of course it is still important for me to sit with friends, laugh:, srn ile and socialize, but i1 is even more important to me to feel like I arn accomplishing something with my mind that exists outside the realm ofbooks. I was given the amazing gift C>f a working mind and a healthy hody. With those two things, I can nave no excuse for not pushing myself to my maximum (;apacity. In the face of failure I have only to overcome the obstacles of a s.lightly bruised ego, and triumph ()Ver my \mistakes.\ It has taken me so long to actu- ally look at the decisions I have made and say that I am proud. of myself. It is hard to find confi- dence in the midst of stress and J>arental disapproval. This is my life, though, and .like every other college student, this is mytime to do the things that make rne happy and feel alive. Being able to see that has left me more confident than if I were getting straight A's and I 0 hours of sleep .every night.

Page 10 ' February 4, 1999 • (trnuc.orhiensi~ World News US and British Planes Continue Bombing of Iraq by Neil Routman Staff Writer Earlier this week, the United States and Great Britain dropped a particularly harsh multitude of bombs on lr~q. The Pentagon reported that communication stations and air defense guns were targeted in the north- em \no fly zone.\ More than thirty large, laser-guided bombs were used in this offen- sive courtesy ofthe Air Force's F -15s, Navy F-18s, and British Tornado Jets. The size of these bombs were either approximately 500 or 2000 pounds. Defense Secretary William Cohen stressed the increased flexibility that the pilots have in targeting sites. \They are not simply go- ing to respond to a triple-A (anti- aircraft artillery) site or to a SAM (surface-to-air mis- sile) site,\ Cohen said. \They can go after command and control and communications centers as well that allow Saddam Hussein to try to target them and put them in jeop- d \ ar y. This action is not the first of its kind by far. Since last December, there have been nearly 100 bombing oflraq by US and Brit- ish aircraft. This particular strike, however, came only one day after an oil pipeline was destroyed. This pipeline funneled oil from Iraq to Turkey as part of a United Nations agreement. The profits made from the oil were to be used for food and medical sup- plies, the later being p~p:icularly needed in the needy nation. The official in charge of this oil pipeline operation stated, \Ameri- can warplanes caused civilian casualties and other damage to a link in the control system ofthe Iraqi-Turkish pipeline Monday, result- ing in the isolation of the metering station in Zakho.\ The State Department's response was that the base hit was being used as a relay sta• tion for anti-aircraft guns, and wastherefor:e a legitimate target. Secretary Cohen stated that it is unsure if tlte oil pipeline was even hit in the earlier attack. Some Tuvkish reports state that the oil pipeline is still operational. \I might point out, contrary to the Iraqi claims about this (Sunday's inci- dent) jeopar- dizing the oil~ for-food pro- gram, that the United Nations itself has pointed out . that there is some$275 mil- . , lion in food and medicine and suppties which are stored in Iraqi ware- houses that are not being dis- tributed to the Iraqi people,\ Cohen said. Hussein is free to pursue his interests of terrorism. The possibility of an Iraqi dev,el- opment of biological weapo11s in the next ten years is very possible. A nuclear arms program is less likely but also .still possible. Iraqi military forces continue to support the dictator and the operations ()f surveillance These daily~.- _________________ ___.;..,___...~~ bombing are in resp<mse to Iraq's targeting of these planes and \locking them in\ on radar. These \no fly\ zones were originally set Uf> to protect the peoples that Saddam preyed upon in the 1991 Gulf War. The con- tinuation of the patrolling of these regions illustrates the continuing threat that:Saddam Hussein presents upon the Middl~Eastern region. With the dismissal ofthe United Natiori 's UNSCOM inspectors, Hussein has only con- finned his intentions of rebuilding his arms supply. Without the proper regulation and inspection of the Iraqi Presidential Palaces, of foreign aircraft and targeting with surface to air missiles persists. The likelihood of an · intercontinental ballistic missile attack is slim, but Hussein still might posse.s the capabil- ity to strike US military bases jn Turkey and Saudi Arabia, as well as Israel. Until Saddam allows the i11spection ofh is presidential palaces, we can <lnly expectfur- ther bombing on Iraq. Thepres.identialpal- aces, in fact, are not palaces at all; they are large bllilding and/or warehouses. These large complexes can be used tornake chemi- cal or biological weapons. The likelihood that these palaces are in fact being used for these purposes is also very probable. The mobility .of these weapons is highly dan~er­ ous. If developed properly, these agents can be smuggled into any country in the fonn of medication. These agents are diffi- cult to trace and can be extremely difficult to contain .. Only a small aJD()tint of nerve gas or dissolved chemical agents ina water sup• ply can potentially cause thousands of deaths. Furthermore, the reaction to these biological agents is unorganized and some- what effective at best. As reported on in an earlier article in the World News Section, the governmental reaction is no better offtoday than it was ten years ago. We should fear_ these biological and chemical weapons; Iraq very well might have the <:apacity to pro- duce these agents today or in the near fu- ture. Saddam Hussein continues to disallow the UNSCOM agents to inspect these palaces because he is not a direct target. Time is Sad dam's friend. As he <Jontinues to stall, some countries sympathize with the dis- traught nation. The Iraqi economy is not effective; imported products are nearly im- possible to attain unless one's name is Hussein. Already, Germany, France, and Russia have pushed for the lifting of sanc- tions on Iraq. While the Iraqi people continue to suffer, Saddam basks in his wealth and fortune. He bas a private army, he has aprivate market in which to buy such luxuries as European au- tomobiles and American. sport utility ve- hicles. Saddam Hussein owns Iraq, and no country will implement a policy of assassi- nation, The only force that <Jan legitimately oust Saddam is the Iraqi pe()p]e. The United States and the Britain can ~ontinue to bomb Iraq for each infraction that the Iraqi's incur. The cycle will not end, however, until Sad dam Hussein is out of power. State Department Seeks a Consensus, with Chinese Government Secretary of State, Madeline Albright Visits China to Talk about Civils Rights and Trade Policies by Steven Nemith Staff Writer L'S Secretary of State Madeline Albright criticized the Chinese government for its harsh treatment of dissidents and pro-de- mocracy activists during her visit to China on Monday, but also added that China's poor record of human rights would not affect US trade relations with the country. \We determined some time ago that it was not a good idea to link human rights and trade, and that we actually make better progress with both when they .are not linked,\ Albright said in the joint press con- ference with China's foreign minister Tang Jiaxuan. But she also argued that a free so- ciety is a more stable one Albright also went on to state that the US government \deplored\ China's crackdown on pro-democracy activists and said she was deeply disturbed by the detentions, trials, and punishment for what she calls peaceful political activities by the Chinese people. \It's very important for there to be a change in atmosphere and an end to the crackdown,\ Albright said. China's foreign minister responded by saying much oftbe criticisms landed on the Chinese government come from a \handful of anti-China elements\ within the US and truth, s<>cieties are more, not less, likely to be stable when citizens have an outlet to express their political views.\ Despite the differences, Albright said that the Clinton Administration was seeking a \strategic partnership\ with China. \In our as a response to an under- .-------------.,.......-.,....,relationship with wamed that any deeper inquiry would be an intrusion into internal policy. \We have al- ways been opposed to politicizing the hu- man rights question,\ Tang said, smiling politely. China's recent crackdown has occurred ground movement to create Chiru, these are an opposition political party, \We determined nei111erthe best of not unlike the method used times nor the by the Chinese Communists SOme time agO that it worst of times,\ in 1949. Members oft:hecen- · Albright said ac- tral Democratic Party have WQS not Q good idea knowledging the been rounded up and sub- to· link human riohts ups and downs. jected to cursory trials and ~, Albright also given sentences ranging d t ,J told Cllinese offi- from 18 months to 3 years of an raue, cials and the press hard labor. China claims the and that We aCfUa/fy that there is a crackdowns are justifiable. chancethattheUS \At this moment, we have make better progreSS and China can to do that. Otherwise stabil- • work out a deaJfor ity in China will t>e dis- Wlth both When they China to join the rupted,\ Tao Wenzhao of l• k d '' Worlc!TradeOrga- the Academy ofSocial Sci- are not ln e • nizatioll and that ences said. -A/briuht US Trade R~pre- These crackdowns have ~ · s e n t a t 1 v e become the main subject of C h a r I e n e a new State Department report that has drawn the ire and complaints of many high- ranking Chinese officials. When asked of her response to their criticisms of the repOrt; Albright said, \The United States will n.ever apologize for speaking or publishing the Barshefsky was coming to China with \a new proposal~'. \A suC<Jessful outcome will be a great st()p forward in integrating China lnt() the world . economy,\ she said, noting tl-.ata deal coald also red11ce the US trade deficit, China expressed many c<Jncems about US development of a theatre missile defense system in which Taiwanh~ex:pressed much interest. Albright assured the Chinese that the pro- gram was still in the developmental stages and implementation of the ~ystem would not occur for a number of years. She strongly urged the Chinese to use their influence to halt North Korea's missile. development, which she called \the real problem.\ Albright also told the officials that the crackdown was creating a11 extremely sour atmosphere in Washington and could jeop- ardize Premier Zhu Rongji ':;.visit in the near future. She urged that Zhu deal vttth human rights and other issues such as relations with Tai- wan and high technology transfers before his visit. \It's not a great mood,\ State Department spokesman James Rubin said, noting that the Senate had earlier votec:I99-0 for a reso- lution urging the Clinton administration to condemn China's actions at an upcoming human rights meeting in G(lneva. As Albright left on Tuesday, she said she was hopeful that the US at1d China could come to a consensus reganii11g human rights and political freedoms. She also expressed hope that as a member of the WTO, that China would become a stronger ally both economically and politically_ v low me1 Nig con sine ]J leac ave Olu rule to ~ civi ina byr bet that the 1 tran ste~ Tile Jan1 ture whc gair try. in l Nig repc enu ofh cha1 tary Abt dea1 year rv som lar t eve1 deci civi pres forn fon Oba gan trair muc nail. atte1 Mul ria t1 tory surp he~ imp plot 0 inte1 Pres

•• 'I ' World News QJ:.ouc.orMen$is • Febr.uary. 4, 1999• Page 11 Presidential Elections Held in Nigeria by Charlie Tuthill StaffWtiter and at one time was consideredacamlidate for UN Secretary-general. Obasanjo lsalso well known within his country. His cam- paign had the:backingofmanyoftlu mlli· With the election of a new president fol- tiuy elite wh(:) also had a large part ill fi- lowing Saturday's vote; a civilian govern- nancing the campaign. Obasanjo haspor- ment for the fir.st time in 16 years will rule trayed himself as the person wh<> em deal Nigeria. The country has been under the with the military while keeping the ptl()ple 's control of the military for all but. ten years interest at heart. Obasanje's military ca- since it gained ·its independence in 1960. reer has also been somewhat detrlrnellt!t:l'to In an ironic twist the president who will his cam·paign. His critics have allegedthat lead Nigeria's first civilian government in he is nothing more than another military over a decade is a former military general, generallooking to control the country. Fore- Olusegun Obasanjo. Obasanjo formerly most ofthese critics was Obasanjo's<lppo- ruled Niger:iaandwas the first military leader nent in the election, Olu Falae. Fala-e be- to give control of the government over to · lieves that Obasaajo and his supp().Jters civilians. Although this govemment ended participated :tn vote rigging in order 1() ;g;ain in a 1983 military coup, Obasanjo is still seen an advantage in the election, which h·e de- by most Niger.ians as a military man who can scribes as \farce and charade.\ be trusted, which is a rare thing in a country Voter fralld was a major c<mcertt in that has fallen victim to military tyranny in Saturday's elections. A New Y()rk :rimes the past. article reports that \there has been .en()wg;h The election was has been a remarkable evidence of fraud thatelecti<mofficialssus- transition for Nigeria and is one ofthe final pect that ofthe 53 million registered V<l~ers steps in the country's transfer to civilian rule. in a population of 108 miNion, only 4()mi 1- The first steps occurred in December and lion are genuine.\ A team ofinternati()nal January with the elections for state legisla- election monitors noted that \serious iiTegu- ture and national assembly. Military leaders rarities\ occurred in some sections ·O\f tile who have used their power and influence to gain control have formerly ruled the coun· try. These dictators have not always acted in Nigeria's best interest. for example, Nigeria's latest dictator General Sani Abacha reportedly stole millions worth of oil rev- enue from the countty and has been accused ofhuman rights abuses. Nigeria's fortunes changed with the arrival of its current mili- tary ruler General Abdulsalmi Abubakar. Abubakar took contr.ol of Nigeria after the death of General Sani Abacha in June oflast year. Many were skeptical of Abubakar and some expected another military dictator simi- lar to the one he replaced. Ababukar how- ever was not similar to Sani Abacha. He decided to give control ofNigeria over to a civilian government and to step down as president in May this year. Replacing Abubakar will be the newly formed government under President and former general Olusegun Obasanjo. Obasanjo was formerly a teacher who be- gan his military career in 1958. He was trained in India and Britain and has won \\ much praise for his military talent. He origi- nally came to power in 1976 when a coup attempt took the life of General Murtula Muhammed. He later gave control ofNige- ria to a civilian government. Obasanjo's vic- tory in Saturday's elections is especially surprising seeing as only eight months ago country alth()ugh a pattern favoring one party was m>tfound. In an interview fo1111er · President Jimmy Carter, who was part()fthe international team said, ''there has:not teen a pattern of nationwide fraud or irregt~lari­ ties.'; However, some of the irregularities thatthemonitors did observe lncl11des 1>-al- he was in prison. General Sani Abacha had lot boxes manipulated results and incoiTect imprisoned Obasanjo in connection with a vote tallies. plot to over throw the General's regime. The Nigerian government als<J sent OLlt Obasanjo is a well-known leader in the election monitors in order to mak.e sure the international community. He is friends with elections were fair. One Nigerian mon if()r- President Nelson Mandela of South Africa, ing agency Transition Monitoring (Jr()Up ~ _ .:·~ NEW A 'T THE ,-.~p~ R.A.THS CJ-IICKEN STEAK SUBS CC>~BC>S CAPPUCCINO GOUR:M:ET' CAM.PBELLS' SOUPS FRESH SA.M~T'HA JUICES NACHOS AS A REGULAR FEATURE SK.ELLAR. -SA.M.PLER. BASKET ADDITIONAL SANDWICH. TOPPINGS. *\\FR.ESHJ\4AN' C.A:N NOW USE 2 M:EA..L SWIPES A VVEEK AT THE RATHSK.ELLA.R. <ft) • ) ) noted tha1s0me ofthe irregulaJ'itles were se- rious. Clernemt Nwanko who is cluirman of the group bellieves that the voting ·inegularities ,t? were seriolls enough that Obasa11jo will have to win ()Ver.the public in orderto build popu- lar supj>OR't f()r himself. Voter fratHl however did not change the predictability of Saturday's results. Falae won most of tile southwest ofthe country while o6asanjo c.arried the 11orth. Thle majority of the not1h~rn Nigeria is made 11p of ethnic Hausa. Fla11sa leaders have often controlled the gover:nrn ent through tile military. Obasanjo 's. v-ictory in the north vvas not sur- prising COIIi5idering his military l>ackground. Falae's tritL111ph in the southwestern section ofthe country was not surprise either. The majority of southwestern Nigeria is Yoruba, which is an ethnic group within Nigeria. Both Falae and Obasanjo are Yoruba. What dis- tinguishes the two candidates is that Obasanjo was a former General with ties to tile military. Many Yorubaaredistrustfulof a military that has kept the Hausa in power for most Nigeria's existence. They believe that Obasanjo is simply a pawn of the Nige- rian military machine. Many Yorubas fear that Obasanjo will simply become another m il itary dictator. Obansanjo has denied all claims that he wants to tum Nigeria back into a military dictatorship. Before the results were an- nounced Obansanjo was quoted as saying \an election is not the end of democracy. Democracy under my leadership will con- tinue.\ Many countries, including the United States, would like to see Obansanjo' s pledge to continue democracy become a reality. ~Many believe that economic interest may ~be part of the motivation for furthering de- ~ rnocracy in Nigeria. Nigeria is the world's g sixth largest producer of oil. Companies such 9 as Mobil and Chevron have billions invested in Nigeria. Economic interests may be a reason that other countries support Nigeria's move to democracy although its humanitarian as- pects cannot be ignored. Many Nigerians look forward to increased freedom which de- mocracy should provide. As one Nigerian told reporters \your child can be president of America whether he holds a gun or not. But here, because of what we have experi- enced, he cannot. I want to be able to tell my child that he can be president whether he is military man or not, whether he is ftom the north or the south - only that he is a citizen ofNigeria.\ World News needs you to write. Are you worldly, are you internationally and intellec- tually stimulated? If so, come to next term's first meeting, on April 1, 1999. Time: 6:00 PM Place: 303 Reamer Campus Center RSVP: Nooe needed or contact Neil at routmann@union.edu TJJ.is is your paper. This is World News .. Complaints? You write.

Page 12• March 4, 1999 • Olcttwrbiensis . Science & TechnolQgy Science & Technology Asthma: A Growing Epidemic. by Victoria Hargreaves Science and Technology Editor Dust mites, cockr.oi:lciJ waste, mold, automobile exhaust, animal dander, and plant pollen. Believe it or not, these allergens inhabit most of ourhabitats, but many of us are unaware and unaffected. They are, however, increasingly becoming the concerns .of nearly J7 million Americans who suffer from asthma. Asthma, a chronic, inflammatory disease ofthe lungs characterized by persistent difficulty breathing, currently afflicts moFe than one million people from New'Yurkand is estimated to cost the healthcare industry $14.5 billion by the year 2000. The number of reported asthma cases since 1980 has increased by 75% for the general p()pUiation and by more than 160% for children, according to the Centers for Dis- ease Control and Prevention. Re- searchers and physicians specu- late that smaller houses with de- creased air circulation and in- creased childhood exposure to al- lergens have caused this drastic increase. American children miss more than ten million school days due to asthma each year. An asthma attack- is actually the immune system's response to an :porarily by relaxing the airway's tionsas prescribed, monitor symp- invading allergen. During an at- muscles and dilating the passages. toms and attacks, and seek a tack, a trigger causes the l:Jnfortunately, more than half of physician's guidance. .asthmatic's already inflamed and :veople who use inhalers to admin- The Allergy and Asthma Net- sensitive lungs and airways to be- ister their medication use them in- work recommends use of the peak .come more inflamed. The lining of correctly. To ensure maximum ef- flow meter that measures lung and the airways expands, mucus.---~~----:--------~--.-........----..._ ........... airway capacity and can clogs the passages, and the· . wamofanimpendingasthma muscles surrout:Jding the air- attack even before· symp- ways constrict, resulting in a toms arise, Physicians ·often bronchospasm. The stream of fail to diagnose or misdiag- air passing through these nose people with asthmabe- censtricted airways results in cause its symptoms are simi- wheezing. These physiologi- · lar to those of emphysema, cal reactions can also result bronchitis, and lower respi- in coughing and ditiiculty ratory infections. Oftentimes breathing. Physicians de- people ignore or deny their scribe an attack as trying to ·own symptoms that could be breathe through a straw that indicative of asthma such as is clogged with cotton ortak- exercise-induced coughing ing deep breaths of cold air. or wheezing, celds that \go Although there is no cure to the chest,\ and a chror~ic for asthma, several treat- www.lungusa.org cough especially at night. ments exist that control and Asthma inexplicably af- lessen the severity of attacks \]> hysicians describe an asthma flicts some groups more than and prevent pennanent dam- attack as trying to breathe through others, especially children age to the lungs. \Long-term under the JJge of fi.ve, adults control medicines\ allow a straw that is clogged with cotton. \ in their thirties, and African- asthmatics to control their Amet:icans. Approximately co.ndition and prevent per- manent lung damage. These medi- cations lessen inflammation of the. airway linings which makes them less susceptible to allergens and triggers. \Quick-relief medicines\ treat the symptoms of asthma tern- fectiveness, people who use inhal- ers should consult with their phy- sicians for instruction on proper technique. To further manage asthma, doctors recommend asth- matics avoid triggers, take medica .. ten percent of asthmatics are 65 years-old or older. There are 26% .more cases of asthma in Afri- can-Americans than C11ucasians and in 1993, black children were. five times more likely to die from asthma thart white children. People . liv.inginthecity are also more likely to have asthma. Scientists believe asthma is he· reditary; ifa parent has asthma, his child is more likely to have asthma. The chances that the child wiH de- velopasthma are further increased ifhe has allergies. More than 80% of children and 50% of adults with asthma also suffer from allergies. While some people who develop asthma as chi.ldren experience full remission, others redevelop again as adults. Despite misconception, doctor~ encourag~ people with asthma to exercise. Although medication may be required on cold days ot when the pollen count is particu- larly high, regular physical activ- ity should not lessen or cease be- cause ofasthma. After aH, some of the greatest Olympians have suc- ceeded with asthma. Sources: http:f/www .aafa.org/whatis http://www .ama-assn.org/special/ asthma/newsline/ http://www .ama-assn.org/special/ asthma/support/alersta http://www .ama-assn.org/speciall asthmalsupport/educate/treat.htm http://www .mdnet.de/asthina/ single/whatis The Science of th. · e Zamb~oni . ' . - . by Jeffrey Ausft!ld Staff Writer I was at the last Unio11 hockey game at Achilles Rink for the sea- son last Friday night. Although Union lost, it was the I:Jest game that I have ever seen them play. As most people know, h()ckey has three periods and in be- tween the first and second and second and third periods, the ice is resurfaced. As I 1ooked around, many of the people in the stadium were either talking with one another or watching theZamboni. Now, I nave seen a Zam boni machine many times before, but I began to realize that it is a form of entertainment to watch the Zamboni work its way around the ice. As I paid closer attention to this marvel of machinery, I began towon· der how the Zamboni works. To adequately understand the Zamboni machine, it is helpful to know who came up with such a creation. That somebody is Frank J. Zarnboni. At the time he created tlie machine, he owned a large ice blo(;k factory which supplied ice to wholesalers for the railroad shipme11t of their products. As time passed and as refrigeration improved, the ice block market began to fade away, and this was when Frank decided to invest in the growing sport of ice-skating. At the time, there we:re few ice rinks in southern California, so Frank built Iceland Skating Rink, one of largest rinks in the country. The rink had 20,000 square feet of ice and could holdup to 800 skat- ers. With such a large surface of ice, the challenge came in maintain- ing the surface. The process to re- S\lrface the ice took four or more workers more than an hour to per- form. This process took way too Mode! A long and left Frank searching for a better way. That better way led to the birth oftheZarnboni machine. Frank's first working attempt was called the Model A. It per- fanned the task of all four workers at the same time. It had four-wheel- dl'ive and four-wheel-steering on a l1and-'built chassis. A cover was added at the front over the con- veyor chain to keep snow from fall- ing onto the fresh ice surface. rt also had an in-tank snow melt- ing system as well as a washing system. The ice shaving storag~ I:Jin had a hinged wooden side so the snow could be shoveled out. The Model A introduced the ~·wash Water\ system -a black tank over the galvanized water tank which helped re-circulate water 11sed to wash the ice before apply- ingthe final coatofwater. Over the years, Frank made many improvements which resulted in the 2amboni machines that we see in use today. Someofthose improve- ments included an option for hav- ing liquid-cooled gas, a fully elec- tric machine, a completely new ver- tical auger system to convey the snow, and a quick-dumping hy- · draulic snow tank. How exactly does a Zamboni ma- c !tine produce such a smooth, clean, sheet of ice in a short amount oftimeJ The key to the whole pro- cess is in the auger sled that is dragged behind the Zamboni ma- chine. Many resurfacing pro- cesses occur in the .sled. The first step is to shave the top layer of the ice off, thus eliminating the high edges and some of the sur- Modern Zamboni face scratches. The ice shaving~ are then directed into a horizontal auger system that moves the ice shavings to the center vertical au- ger. The vertical auger brings the ice shavings from the sled to the storage tank located in the front pf the Zamboni machine. This ex- plains the large front end on the Zamboni. After the ice shavings are moved to the horizontal auger, the next step is to clean the ice. Jets of cold wa- ter that are sprayed onto the ice and quickly vacuumed back up again make up the cleaning pro- cess. Cold water is used because it does not freeze as fast and can be sprayed onto the ice and vacu- umed up again without freezing. The last step is to spray bot water onto the ice and then level the water layer onto the ice with the rubber towel that is dragged behind the sled. Since the water is hot, it melts the rough edges of the left-over scratches and fills in the gaps. Also, because ofthe initial hot temperature of the water, it freezes almost instantly. There are also a few extra . controls. that the driver has, such as regulating the amount of ice that is removed by the razor sharp blade, the amount of cold and hot water that is allowed to flow onto the ice, an auger lever that clears blockages in the vertical au- ger system, and a speed con- trol fortbe Zamboni machine itself. Union College ow.ns a relatively new Olympia Resurfacing Ma- chine that uses, believe it or not, propane as its fueL Also, the hot water is not produced on the ma- chine itself, but rather it is pumped into the Olympia before resurfac- ing at 180 degrees Farenheit from a normal hot water pipe. The aver- age cost of an ice-resurfacing ma- chine is approximately $55,.000. If there are any unanswered ques- tions that you would like ad- dressed, please e-mail me at ausfeldj@idol.union.edu. · - · · -

.verttsements NEED MORE C~~SH? . EARN THE EXTRA MON£Y YOU NEED IN YOUR SPARE TIME! • CLIFTONPARK·LOCATION t WE OFFER PAID TRAJNING • PROFESSIONAL WORK ENVIRONMENT t COM.PE11TIVE HOURLY RATE . t EVENING AJ'{] WEEKEND SHIFTS AVAILABLE GREAJ JOB FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS! CALL TODAY (518) ~73-4039 . . TAX AD\'Ar\TAGED SOtUTIOl\'S FROM TIAA-CREF IF, YOU THOUGHT COLLEGE WAS EXPENSIVE, TRY PUTTING YOURSELF THROUGH RETIREMENT. · T. hink about supporting yourself for twentywfive, thirty years or longer in retirement. It might be the greatest financial test you'H ever face. Fortunately, vou have two valuable '\ v assets in your favor: time and ta;'{ deferral. The key is to begir1 saving now. Delayingyour decision for even a year or nvo can have a big impact on the amount of income you'Jl have when you rettre. What's the simplest way to get started? Save in pretax dollars and make the most of tax deferral. There's simply no more painless or powerful way to build a comfortable. and secure tomorrow. SRAs and IRAs makes it easy. SRAs - tax-deferred annuities from TIAA-CREF- and our range of IRAs offer smart and easy ways to build tne extra income your pension and Social Security benefits may not cover. They're backed by the same exclusive investment choices, low expeAses, and personal service that have made TIAA-CREF the retirement plan of choice among America's education and research communities. Calli 800 842-2776 and 6nd out for yourself how easy it is to put yourself thmugh retirement when you have time and TIAA-CREF on your side. www.tiaa-cref.org EilsurWg the future for those who shape ~· TJM-CR£11/riJi~;\tal Qnc) itJJtituliMal S<r,im, Tnt., iitlli6~1t.• C/I.EF wli/ituft; .,;J vJ/tt(;/J ill rii<TlAA Rt41 f...Mt kiP/lilt. fll'ntDrttfllipl\' Uif~lifn, mt~inr ~~':j/llhi lolflii.JII, ~all J ·toO 812·2/JJ. 1.11. 550~ /M t!t IJW;.tllfJtf, kt~J t6tm t~Nfuliy Atfm 1M ln'IJ/ iJr ''\t 111.W.y. lw.l . . . . . - . - . \CABARET)) The musical by John Kander and Fred Ebb Spring Term Mainstage Production March 11• (Thursl and 12 111 (Fri) 7-9 pm March 13 (Sat) 11-2 pm · Ifinterested please sign up for an audition time in the lobby of the Yulman Theatre • Questions;. please email or call director Diane Sadak - 311-2648 or smithb@union.ed.u Please prepare a one minute memorized .monologue and anything to sing. Your song should be at least 16 bars, memorized, with or without accompaniment. · No acoompanist will be provided, but you may bring your own if you wish. You may also. sing \Vi11l a cassette (we'll provide a tape player). Some movement may be required, so dress to dance/move. Please do 11()1 sing anything from CABARET itself. ~· I .,·.-• ......... . ~·· Looking for a summer job, to make extra money. Aardvark Studios is filling Pfr photography positions in your area. There will be a t1ining seminar on April I Oth in Albany, NY at no cost to you. C&J ~00.212.60~7. ext. 0 fQr details, space is limited.

Audience Wanted: Dead Or Alive by Kimberly Rohback A&EEditor Audience members wanted. Pro- fessor Smith and his band of 23 thespians have worked for 8 Weeks, for hours every night to put on a. comical piece for the Union College community. People have tired of the excessive sadness and morbidity that usually flows out of the Yulman, so in an attempt to ameliorate the situation, \The Gov- ernment Inspector\ was chosen. On opening night the theater was bustling, not packed, with the bodies and laughter of peers and professors. This was, in part, due to the complimentary tickets ran- domly distributed to the campus. Robyn Polansky said, \I've been to every show that Lori has been in, and this is the first one I have really truly .enjoyed! l did not stop laughing\ Gina LaSorsa, of\Din- ing Out With Gina LaSorsa'' said, \It was so funny!\ The following two nights ofthe run, the audience dwindled in num- bers. The question of the week was \why?\ The cast and crew have worked incredibly hard, and have produced an excellent show. The missing element is- an audience. This is not unusual for shows at the Yulman. Attendance is usu- ally skewed to the low sid·e. It is particularly poignant, however, when the actors are performing a comedy. Gogo!, the author ofthe show, speaks ofthe essential char- acter in the show, who is never mentioned but always present. .. laughter. Without it the show is incomplete. Admission for a night of in your face comedy is only $5.00. It is $5.00 that goes to help pay for the cost of production, which is usually outstanding. The set forth is piece is extraordinary. Chairs and lamps hanging at different angles form the ceiling. Several crooked and topsy-turvy levels, which the per- formers scurry across. The light- ing for the show is also outstand- ing. Very few theater-goers pause to consider how significant light- ing and sound are to a play. It is difficult work, and in the case of \The Government Inspector\ it has been done e:xceptionallywell. The costumes are another bril- liant limb in this mammothproduc- tion. Linda Salsbury; costume-de- signer extraordinaire, has outdone herself yet ·again. Where else do you get to see a bunch of men stuffed into fat-suits, Sandy Rodrigues. and Stacey Caplin dance around in about six . different prom dresses, and Ari Gotlieb in a giant fur coat that looks like :20 poodles strapped to his back? The production thls term is an exceptional balance of directorial, scenic design, cos- tume and lighting de- sign, and above all performance-based talent. I fthe hard work that the professionals have done to put on an outrageously funny p:iece of theater isn't enough, then ·I would like to provide one more ... Ryan Windlespect. Tbis is his acting debut. He has worked long and hard to perfect thatRussian accent he does soweH. Hewears a leather dominatrix ·OUtfit and cracks a whip throughout the entire show ... lffor no other reason ... -come ~see Ryan Windlespect. The cast is an ecc1ectic rnix ·of Union's fine~t. It represents a va- riety of all walks-of- I ife, including first timers, Heath Fradkoff, Mike DeMicco,and PeteMalspina. The cast even includes a talente:d young member ofthe French De- partment, the suave, thedebonair- Fabio-look-a-Iike, Professor Charles Batso11. I would also like to make one comment regarding Connor McKenzie's article .·last week noting the lack of \cute blond lesbians in the show.\ ·Well Conor, ''The Government Inspector\ proudly boasts that it does in fact have, \one cute blond lesbian,\ Stacey Caplin. She is brilliant. Stacey, could be a one woman show in and of herself, but put her with twenty men, and th~re is nothing but humping and laughter. .. out of control. There are rats. There is vodka. There is lingerie. There is gambling. There is sex. There is drinking. Come drunk. Come stoned. Come naked. Just come. \The Dining Out With Gina LaSorsa Re-cap Compiled by Lori Greene A&EEditor As the last issue of the term is upon us, let us reflect on all the eating we did! Here's a brief sum- mation of all the Dining Out ofWin- terTerm. Sitar: As aesthetically pleasing restau- rant located on State Street. The traditional Indian food, ordered with the help of our friend Siraj, was spicy and flavorful. Our sugges- tions: Tandoori chicken, Chicken Tikka Massala and Paneer Palak- don 't ask, just order! Also avail- able are lamb, seafood and vegetar- ian specialties, as well as a full bar and dessert. Price is above-aver- age, but is well worth it for the ex- <Jtic taste! Castello's: Offering a large variety ofGreek and Italian food, Castello's isafarn- ily restaurant with a cozy atmo- sphere. The price is aff()rdable, even for college students and the food is decent, if not the best Ital- ian food. Portio11sare large and in- clude bread, salad and a side of pasta. Our suggestions: chicken <Jr eggplant pannesan. Also available are pizza, salads, sandwiches and Greek entrees. Gar-bo's: A small diner on Liberty Street, <Jffering typical breakfast and brunch entrees. Gar-bo's is well- known for their home-made sau- sage, enjoyed with eggs, homefries, juice, coffee and toast for the low price of$3.25 They of• fer daily specials, rangirrg from hamburgers, salads, ziti to fish fries. The owner and his staff are trying to appeal to the Union cr<lwd by offering competitive prices and good food. To quote the special board, \A little bit of Greek in ev- ery bite of our famous dogs.\ Japan Sushi: Located on Union Street, it looks like a take-out restaurari~ but in fact has a full sit-down menu. Two menus offer a full sushi service as well as hot meals of noodles, teriyaki, and tempura. Individual pieces of sushi are cheap, with prices ranging from a dollar to two. H<Jt entrees are more expensive, but come with soup and white rice; a staple of any Japanese meal. We suggest: beef teriyaki and negimaki. Delivery service is avail- able for orders over $20.00. Morrettes: One of the oldest eateries in Schenectady! Morrettes offers diner fare in a cozy, cleart setting. They are famous for steak sand- wiches but offer much more. The service was speedy, an·d the qual- ity of food was excellent. Although Lori admits the place Io()ks incred- ibly sketchy; the staff is friendly, food is good and prices are rea- sonable. We suggest: steak sand- wiches with cheese. J11st because it appears sketchy, give it a try'! Basically, that is the theme we have been trying to instill! Do not be a Schenectady snob, but em- brace this town and all that it of- fers. We urge you to go out into Schenectady, try out these restau- rants and any others you may pass by! Schenectady is a land of culi~ nary mystique that is not to be shunned. If you know of any o1her eater- ies that you would like to see are- view of, contact Gina·LaSorsa at X5812 with all the details! Government Inspector\ has it all, except an a~:~dience. Appreciate the work that your fellow students have dot'le. Respect an art form that is rarely acknowledged at Union: College. It has been a very long aildproductive rehearsal pro- cess, tlut has produced a show that is hilarious. Without preach- ing,. it is fair to say, that the only excuse you 'have not to watch this .show, is that you are in it. Come see itto11ight, tomorrow, and Sat- urday. Bring your friends, your loved ones, your roommate or your dog. We don't care. As long as you lattgh. Prizes available for the loudest member of the audience ... it doesn't even have to bee laughter. ciZ>2XO( LORI G~EEN 'IN WASHINGTON We w-ill Miss You!

,1 H, te ts Arts & Entertainment t!rmuorbiensis • March 4, 1 '.»99 • Page 15 Uncle Sammy a Crowd Pleaser at Cbet's Compiled by Lc>ri Greene A&E Editor Last Thursday, as:,part of\Cheers to the class of 99! Chet's played h()stto Uncle Sammy, a remarkable jam band out of Boston. Uncle Sammy's popularity has been grow .. ing steadily since they were formed two years ago. During the past two summers, they were the house band for Gamelan Prodactions' \Get Baked Summer Concert Series\ at the Wellfleet Beachc()mber on Cape Cod. They have shared the .stage with acts including: The Disco Bis- cuits, Fox Trot Zulu, Jiggle the Handle, Moon Boot Lover, The Heavy Metal Horns, and Another Planet. Uncle Sammy has alsomade three appearances on WERS radio in Boston. at venues including: The Wet- lands Preserve in New York City, The House ofBlues in Cambridge, MA, the 0 c e an Mist in Matunuck, RI, the Middle E a s t Down .. stairs in C a m - br idg,e, M A , Harper's Ferry in Allston, M A , Paddy's . Burkes in Boston, MA, Empty Pockets in Portland,. ME and the Natick Ce.nter for the Arts in players with a Berklee College of Music back:ground~ Drummer Tho-. mas Arey gigs on the side with Jim In addition to the Beach corn be, Natick, MA. Stinnett (bass p'layer who was a. Phish bassist, Mike Gordon's in- structor). Tom brings fluent jazz and Latin chops to Uncle Sammy, in addition t() laying down a solid funk groove when the time is right. Uncle Sammy has played, or is Al'l four members of Uncle booked throughout the Northeast Sammy are extremely talented D . · o· t w· · · ·t·h G·. • L s . mmg .•·u-·· • ·.1•·•·· ·•· ma, a.-orsa · _ . .· . . . , ... consistency, although there are tastes just like marna's!\. ltdid not. . byGinaLaSorsa some dishes prepared with plain tastelikemama's, becausemama's tomato sauce. It was very diffi- Italian specialties do not consist StaffWriter As much as I loveSchenectacly, Kim Rohback and l do get tired ofit every so often. This week, we de- cided to take a break from our humble little town to venture off to .Wo.lfRoadin Colonie. WolfRoad ,_.; ·.is: fuH (}fct\ining opportunities, and :'; ,, o~t elm ice Wascthe Macat:oniGrill. ~ · There has been a bit ofcontrov:ersy over the restaurant. be.;:ause some ~:i;:0ireopJe-hate..#'ind~lier..s::ddi~6t. ·I personally liked the restaurant. Overall, l was impressed with the classy .atmosphere the restaurant ·.'·provided. The hardw()Od floors and . fireplace were amongst the more noticeable perks. Although the res- ta~rant ,does have a touch of class, · casual dress is appropriate. Each table is covered with white paper, and you are provided with some crayons for your enj()yment. Lori Greene offered the fun fact thatthe colors on the Crayolacrayons were written in Italian. When you are seated, your server will attempt to show off their skills by writing their name upside down on the table in order for you to be able to read it. I was truly amazed. Basically, the Macaroni Grill is an Americanized Italian restaurant chain. In other words, do not ex- pect to go there finding your \typi- cal\ Italian favorites. Most ofthe dishes consist of some sort of pasta with fish, chicken, ()r beef in it. Many of the sauces are of a creamy cultto find a simple and plain dish · of such dishes. on the menu. AH of the dishes are As far as prices go, the Maca- composed of a funky variety of rani Grill is moderately priced. It • goodies. Lori Greene went to the was by no means cheap, but it is· MacaroniGriHa couple-ofweeks affordable. The prices for lunch ago and ·said, \I walked in and averaged around $7 ;00 for a pasta ·. thought wow, this place will be ·. dish, and $5>.00 for an entree. The.· great ... and then the food came''. prices for tlinner were a couple of\. Lori was not very impressed by dollars more. Each dish comes with . the quality of the food, and nor bread bruslted with olive oil and was her dining buddy Jon herbs, but soup or salad will cost · Oasthalter, Jon said, \Jt was aw~ yQu extra. The food is pretty rich, ful, and I am still apologizing to so I personally feel that appetizers Lori for taking her there\. are not necessary. As for service, The secret to appreciating the I felt our server was great. Our ..,...,.....~7\\\\'~~ waiter, Pat, refilled our beverages as he felt necessary, and he kept a ~~~~~~i.\:~l careful watch on us to ensure that · . we were happy with everything. Pat was a great little man. In conclusion, I would say that the Macaroni Grill is a great res- ............. ~~;..;J taurant witlt a lot -of character. I · Macaroni Grill is to first accept that it is not a real Italian restaurant, because itis extremely American- ized. For example, Kim and I or- dered the Pasta Milano and the Penne something or other. The Pasta Milano consisted of bowt1e pasta in a creamy garlic sauce with chicken, mushrooms, and sundried tomatoes. The Penne whachamacalit was the same, but it had shrimp in it as well and the sauce wasa bit cheesier. Kim and I thought that the food was good, but it was not real Italian food be- cause I was not thinking \Wow! It would suggest going there for lunch, because the prices are · cheaper and you getthe same por- tions as you would for dinner. The only difference is that the lunch menu isanabbreviated version of the dinner menu. I would also sug- gest a pasta. dish, especially since it is called the Macaroni Grill. If you want salad, then go to Dutch, and if you want meat, then go to a restaurant tllat specializes in meat. Finally, if you want a \traditional\ Italian meal (i.e. ravioli, chicken parm, baked ziti, etc.), then find someplace else. **2nd Annual** . .. KAAriShDW friday, March 5 creationsl •ntaot Josil Gluck x5738 Guitarist Max Delaney, has taken pri\ate lessons from Gary Backstrom, of Jiggle the Handle. Max dazzles audiences on a nightly basis with .bis fero- cious yet strategic playing. Pia- nist Walter Sasser, has strong jazz and classi- cal roots and last summer played a festival in hi shorn e town of Aspen, Colorado Vfitil Medeski, Marti11 and Wood as well as Maceo Parker. Walter has also played live with John Denver. Eass player Brian O'Connell re- certtly finished up a studio project prod11ced by Mike Keneally, former guitar player for Frank Zappa. Brian has also been known to break out the Chapman stick from time to time. Uncle Sammy 1 s sound, as wit- nessed by those in Chet' s last wee.k, is hard to describe, but easy to dance to. Wit11 an eclectic mix of f\Ink., rock, disc(), Latin and jazz, they play a hybrid breed of impro- visational music. One of the most commonly beard responses of people experiencing Uncle Sammy for t.he first time is, \Wow these guysa.re amazing.\ Uncle Sammy will: be reappearing inChet's spring term, so those who missed them- fear 11ot! Kudos to Matt Aronowitz for !>ringing this phenomenal band to our attention! If you know of any bands on campus or in the area, contact Lori or any member of the Chet's Committee. We are constantly seeking out fresh area talent. JAZZ ENSEMBLE TO PERFORM MARCH 10 The Union College J ozz Ensemble, under the directions of Professor Tim Olsen, will perform on Wednesday, March 10, 1999 at 8:00 PM i.n the auditorium of the Reamer Campus Center. This program is free and open to the public. The concert will feature jazz standards by such greats as Thad Jones, Gerry Mulligan, and Louis Prima, as well as several Latin numbers, aU arranged by Olsen. Upcoming events include performances with sculptor I saxophonist Terry Adkins., in Boston at an Alumni function, CJnd at the Steinmetz Symposium in May. Students, staff and faculty instrumentalists are welcome to join the en- semble; for more information, contact Professor Olsen at 388-6563. -e-

..,, ~ ... -~ _ _..........,...,._ __ .,. ---- .... ..., .... --·\!-~ ..... 4~•4 ... -- .. '1 Page 16 • M a reb 4, 1999 • (fJ,rJJctrri)icwsfzr Final Exam Schedule ·M SCHEDULE: WINTERJ999 MONDAY, MARCH 15, 1999- 9:00-11:00 AM FRN* 121*01 Ci 1-.R*O II *0'1 GIU..:*OII*OI liS I '\041 *01 llS 1'*057*0·1 liS I *07'l*t):l IAJ*Oil*Ol Ml:R*043*01 MTI!*02R*OI l'SY*O I 0*02 PSY*OJR*OI RUS*OII *01 SOC'~'Ol0*02 SPN*OIO*Ol SPN*Oll *02 SPN* 143*0I WST*093*01 lntennediatc Fnmch 2 .Leamon, A. OLIN 105 NWSI: 116 11Ut\.·1N 113 Ill J MN II~ Arvll J~'02J*O I BIO*M:\*01 BICI* I .l6*0 I lliO*·l 62*0 I CIIN*OI2*01 CLS*021*01 H'O''I ~I ''O I I:ER*0-1-0*01 lktmqlJ>: Mu'iir.: l\1okl' Bio nf Cdl Cell R.:g Mc..:hani,m~ N.mrobiology \\II ah Ba,ic Chin.:s.: 3 llbtory 1)f (ir..:~cc Topks i11 Mir.:rocco. Circ. & ~ys1ems rvltJvlulkn. D. llnrton. J S Dano\hl-i. B. <>!hag. R. I Cll!:\ . .1.1'. l!alot. R. Schmidt. ~.J. ~pim:lli . .1. FER*I43*01 Ucctrt~mag. l:ngin. I Clum!:\. Y FUL*O&O*OI Criticism Mit..:hc!L C'./\. I:NS*038*0 I Fnviron./Atrno~ph..:rc Wilk. R. J:S('*022*01 l\1cch. ll:~tatcr. S<.:kncc 1\tilillo, F. E\iC*022;\*0l 1\le.ch. lla:MatL:r. Sdencc 1\lilillo, F. CiE0*020*0 I MinL:mlt~g.:- w/l.ah Ilrandvic;s. lVI. E. GRI\. * 134*0 I llonr.:r: The Iliad Mac.:. S. IJST*O I )*0 I llist. uf IJS to Civ. \Var \V.:Ik R. IIST*OI4*01 !list. oflJ<.:; Since l'iv. \1/ar Sto.:rngns~ .. 1. IIST*029*0 I Al'ric.-Ami!r. llislory 2 Corky. S. f IST*035*0 I I listory M ·1 uropo: I llans..:n. r:. IIST*U36*0 I ll·istory (lf Furop..: 2 Walker, 1\1. HST*036*02 History ofl·urope 2 lkrk, S. IIS'P{J47*01 Making (irt. Brit:1707-1837 Halliday. P. JPN* 1.31 *01 Adv. lntcnn JaptmL:se II Khan. Y. MER *062*0 I Themwdynamics 2 Wicks. f. MTII*070*01 Fractals f'ramc. M. MTII* 124*0 I Geometry Barbancl • .1. PIIY*.O·I6*0 I Phys./1 :ill; Sciences 2 Newman, J. PHY*05l*OI lnterm Mod.Phys. Dunn. J. J>S('* 163*01 The Wdti.Jrc Stall.! Weiner. T I'SY*047~01 llealth Ps)eholl1gy \'h·isso.:. C. PSY'' 162*01 lntro to Ncumhinlug::- Olbcrg. R. S0('*129*UI Comp. lkallh Cur.: Sys. (ill1dncr. 1\LA. Basic{icnnan 2 Warde. A Pi·incipb of Greek 2 Mace. S. !Vkdicval .Eurupc . Sm:gcnt. S f\.-1(ldcrn Je\\·isli Uistory Berk S. .-\RI:O.JI3 lll'I\IN 01 () S~CI 014 S 1/.H I (Jf, Ol.IN IU I IH.I\IN I <15 IHI\JN 116 OLIN 306 NWSI: I 11'> llUMN llO NWSE 205 BAll. 2{) 1 IL\11. 201 >()J. IN 332 B.\11. l.fJ6 SS( ·1 IOJ SSCI 112 ;\lri~a in the 20th Ccntu Miller. A.L SSCI I 04 SS('I 103 IIUI\-IN 110 NWSE 222 BAH. W6 U:'\IL 201 HAIL Jl2 Prine. <ll' Latin 2 Scullinn. J. S Adv. Mechanico lllinn. M. Probability l:.imrnennann. K. lntro tn Psyd1, lleH~''W. K., lk\·. Psych. SLanhope. 1.. Basic Russian 2 .lnrdan. B. I nlro to Sociology Benefo. K LJ. Basic Spanish I l:zuriet1t l OLINJIO HliMN 112 HlJMN 014 Basic Spanish. 2 Camacho-J>Jatero L. OLIN 2.11 OLIN 305 SSCI 110 The Mod. Spai\.Nov. Moyano, !!. Medical i\nthrn. Brison. 'K. TUESDAY, MAR~H 16, 1999 - 1:00-3:00 PM nAil. 2u7 llltt.tN 117 · BIO*O 10*0 I lkred/EvQI/f.c{J Fleishman. L SSLI 012 1310*0 12*0 I Cells & Organ, Pytel. B. ssn I 04 1310* 150*0 1 Evolut. Biolqgy Brmvn. G. /\RTS 215 BIO* 154*0 I Dcv. Biology -..v/L<tb Boyer, B. C>I.IN 1'06 CER* I55*0.1 Groundwater H_ydr. Gremlllim1. P. NWSE 210 CJ-IM*l50*01 Physical Chemistry I Hayes, D. ()LIN 107 . EC0*132*01 Labor Economics Prosper, P. fl;\11. I 04 ECO* 134*0 I Financial A.J1alvsis Kenney,. J, NWSJ: 114 HiL*036D*OI Afr.-Amer.ican l'nctry Pavlic. 1::::. NWSF 3U3 FRN*OI 0*01 Basic French l Hat~on .. C. SSCI 0 I 0 HST*049*0 I Euro~lc 8/v\ Two Wars Hansen. E. Bi\11. 102 .IPN*I21*01 Int. Japanese2 W~jno'vich. M. .S'IZII 106 l'vl'lli*019\'QI Tl)pics in An~l_ysis BideT. BAIL 207 SSCI 012 OLIN 106 NWSE 114 STZH 106 NWSE 116 SSCI I(J4 OLIN 3{!7 HUMN 110 OLIN 3f>5 SSCI 103 HlJMN 113 HAll. 312 MH1*031*<11 Lin. i\lgcora & Diff' cq. Ros..:nthal, K. BAIL 100 BAJ L 2()1 IVITJJ*056*01 Geometry oF Nature Frame. M. MHJ*099*1JI lntm:Logic & Set Thry. Taylor. A. MONDAY, MARCH 15, 1999- 1:00-3:00 PM OLIN 107 BAIL I 06 JHJMN 019 NWSE 328 BAlL 312 BAIL 104 lntcrmcd. Chinc!>e ::! Dig. Comp. Design w/1 .ah Introduction to I :en. i\liaocco. Analysb Fcng. J.P. Traver. C. FrictL IJ. Schmidt. S.J. Traver. C I lc in egg. P. MacDonald. 11. Kcat. W .D. MTtl* 140*01 Linem Algebra Zimmermann. K. PI-IY*020*0I General J•hysics 4 Koopmann. R. OI.IN I OS PSY*O.I 0*01 lntro to Ps)cll<llogy Morling. B. 01 .IN 106 PS Y *030*0 I Personality Donaldson. G. 11A II. 2()7 SPN *0 1 0*02 Basic Spanisll 1 Osuna. M. BUTR I 09 Sf'N*OI1 *0 I Basic Spanisl1 2 lzuriela. L SPN* 120*01 Intenn. Spanisl1 Mosquera. D. HUMN 116 SSCI 014 J-IUMN 114 OIJN 106 f\AIL 106 I !liMN II 0 NWSF 205 TUESDAY, MARCH 16, 1999 - 3:30-5:30 PM ('JIN*I21*01 <. 'SC* 11 8*0 I I:CO'~'O 12*02 Eco<~<o4I *0 I HR*118*01 ECii.*020*0 I EUI.*022*0 I ESV021 *01 FRN*120*01 UFR*H 10*0 I IIEB*O I I *01 UST*<lH6*01 ITL*010*02 JPN*Oli*UI LAT* 1-tl *01 ti11.T*O II *0 I Pill *070*0 I I'IIY'' 042 *0 I PI.IY*(152 *0 I I'SC~Oil*02 PSC*Ol2'~0 I PSY*OI 0*03 RllS* 121 *OJ SOC*OI 0*01 SO( '\039*0 I WN\I20*02 ~PN•i ~I *02 \\.' '>T* OHO '' 0 I Dig. Comp. Design w/I.ab Major Eng. Author~ 2 Mltior Amer. 'Author!> I l\1cchanics I \\'/Lab lntcrmctiiatL: f'rcnch Van Dcv~ntcr. ~- OI.IN J!.)~ Ba~ir.: ( il:rnwn I Basic llchrcw 2 The Nw.:k:ar Age Basic Italian I llamm-I:h~<llli, K Almog. M. \Valkl!r/Shan~brook Keyes. M. Basic Japa11(?SC 2 Kl1an. Y Roman llbtoriogr. Bl\lot. R. French Nmcl since 178() nabon. C. llistOI) & flhil of Mod. '>ci Ludwig. J. Ideas of Modern Physics Topor, N. lntcrm Clns~ical i\lech. Khosropotu. R. lntro (() Amcr. Politic'> Weiner. T. lntro lntcrnat. Politics Ciilman. T. lntro to P~)cholog;. Ddlono. K. lntenn<.:dial\: Ru~'iun 2 Jurdan. B. lntro tn Snciolo!!: Cioldm:r. M .. \. Socio!Og)' oJ\thc Family lkm:h 1\..D. lntermed. Spanbh I t'amachn-l'latcro 1.. lnll.:rm..:d. Spanbh 2 i\IP) Will. 1'. Sol'. oi' lht.· l·amil) lk111:lil. J( D. llliJ\:JN JJ 7 CSC*I4U*51 I. I ann H}·. D. OLIN 307 SS(.'! I 0:\ SS('f 014 HLJMN 116 OUN 102 IIUIVlN I 13 JllJI\1N [) 1-t lllii\IN I 12 NWSI: 114 NWSF 303 IHJMN H4 OUNIIO BAII.312. TUESDAY, MARCH 16, 1999 - 4:30-(j:JO PM CSC*238*5l Data Rase Orpm. Spallhoiz. I.. EE'R*I6·1*51 PowerSystl!msAnal.2 Fatic, V. ESC*O 17*0 I; 02, 03. 04 - hmd of Engr/CS Alrnstcad, llunnay ESC*069*51 Enginccting Iicon. Anderstln. A. · NWSE 114 · BAr!. 104 <)J.IN 115 NWSE 205 TUESDAY, M'ARCH 16, 1999 - 5:30-7:30 PM 11!;1\1'-1213 \ILR* 166*51 llcating. Vc1Hil.!:\ir Wicks. F. NWSI: 212 NWSI 210 SSC! 104 i\1l:R*2.ll\*'l riu id D) namic., Turho ·Camphcll. R. SS('I I 03 O!.IN H)5 TUESDAY. MARCH 16, 1999 - 7:00~9:00 PM ~S<I IJI{J <.;~CI IOJ AN I*[) II *51 Comp<lring Cultures Film l.cuvitt. S. SSCI 1 10 MONI)A V, MARCH 15, 1999 - 4:30-6:30 PM WEJ)NESDAY,MARCH 17, 1999-9:00-ll:OOAM CSC*O I 0*0 I Comp. & Cnmputinl,! C\iC *0 I 0*02 Comp. & Computing ('\\(*()! 0*03 (.'()IJ1]l. & l'olllpllting C\iC*fl77*0 I 8:. 5 I Data Strlll'lllfl'' AlmstcaJ. I . Parlt:tt. r-..t. I ktlrick. .I Cin.:cn. r OI.IN J ()(} OLIN JIJ7 ANT*OII >~<()I Comp. Cultur~s Thru f-ilm l.cm· itt. S. SSCI 012 01.11'\ 110 i\.N'I *OIS*Ol Applied Alllht'tJ. ~dutdi.:r. .1. G. IIUI\IN 110 IIL:VI:\ 01-1 Cl S*OJO*OI (irk,&Rom. ·lwg. in lnms Scullion, J. ~ IIUI\IN 114 ('\iC*I.1~*~ I I LR *21:'*5 I MI.R 'li..J I ''.51 Ml R\US0'51 Mn~ \21lo'·51 lVII 'R \309 *:; I Operating s~ ,{CIIl'> 1\'l'C~l'!l. J Ntlll-1 .incar ( lptimi7. hllk. V J:nginccrin~ ()co;ign 1 Rivera, 1\1. I kat ·1 ran~ Ane~I/Jk,ign \\ icks. I. Fla~tidt;. Bucincll. R. Cc,n·nsion l·ngineerin!! l'hi1111Jl';nn. C. !'(\-V<.;I 116 1('0*012''03 BAll. JOO IT0*142*01 N\\'!iL 210 lrv11'*012*01 :\\I ~I ~22 l,'vii'*O 12*02 N\\1,1~115 MIR''OJJ*01 NW'il-' 116 MI.T*02.F01 lntro. to l'colll)lllics Rafkrt). M. SSCI I OJ Problem, in h-'lacnll'COil l\1n1ahar. F Ill IMN I 13 lnl Mati1/Physics 2 Fairchild/Malcki NWSE 112 lnt Mati1/PI1ysics 2 l'airL:hild/Malcki NWSE Il4 Andcr::.on, A. Khan, Y. I ;llor. rl. MONDAY, MARCH 15, 1999- 7:00-9:00 JlM rr 11 *065'~(JJ Pill:' 144*lll I'IIY*O I &*0 I Fluid l\lcch<mks I Chin. & Jap. Cult11rc Philmnph) of fvli ncl Political Phik1SOilhy Uencrall'h)sic::. 2 Baker. R. NWSL 205 OI.IN I 06 SSCI 010 IIUMN 11~ N\\'SI JO~ t\WSI. 116 S'\CI 112 l I R ''I J2\0 I I( .il *(l~ 1* 51 R..:inlilr~.o:d ( llllt:rcl..: Design (Jhal) . .\. •\mc-rican Shtill \((lf) ~lade. I. IH! IR .lOD PIIY*O I R*02 Ill \ 1 '-i I U P\iC*Ol.1*DI PSC*022*fJ l Jones. C. (i.:n...:ral Plr_,sic-, 2 Topor. N. ln1ro tn Pol. Th<lllght Bm\\'n. (' <.)ualitativc Snciul Rc~. Ciilman. '1'. TliJ~SI)t\Y, MARCH 16, 1999- 9:00-ll:OO A.l\1 f'S( '*01:0*0 I I'SY·•o.ltJ''tJ~ Politics ol' NY Stat~ CJo\·. Strosbcrg. M. h!lro lo !'~) cl1olog~ Rubonis. A. SSCI lH~~ SSCI 104 flAIL 207 .\ \ll\tJI..'~ol \\,I 113(1 ill IH WI X.:'*tll ill( l'tll!I''02 Ill( )~(112''02 I m I\ U77 ''O I ll!Cl·I2.\•JiJ 1Wl''I7Will ('! I~* 1-11'''01 CliM'''I X2''01 l II\. II I I lll I ('(I* II 12•o1 I l O* I N''OJ I I H''Ohll''lll I <d •o2~''(.11 I <d *li(>'J'·(!J I \( . 112' . I )j lnlr•• An I li,wr; - 2 \kdit:,!l \JilflitlJltliP1;!~ l'rnh:in lliPdJ,'II1 \1 I ah lkrL•ditl I 1 ol/1 cnl Cclb & Or!!:mbnh '' 1 1 ah I L'~lllllllll!!) or Blllill!,'.) ~licn,billil•g; 1111 ,·,[1 c,~·n,·ral l'nd,l,Tin••\'~' l'olllldation~ 8: ( 1\lhtr l'role.in lliod1cmi,tJ;. lllhi._· l hin..:,.,; 2 lnlroducl i1>11 to I C1>111 • l'uhli.- l'in:111.: .. · Ynung. :VI.\. llri\lll. \· Ill\ \ !lrtll\ II. ( i R i<:L' . ..; \ahP. J. I illl/t Ill, R. 1\ulkl'>IL'ir'. c, < ihal~ •\ In\. I..:. 1-L·n ~. .I I' I ric·cl. II \kC ;u h I J)i,l'l\L'IL· <.,~ ~k'llb 11 I ah Rtl•ll\ • \I vlaior t\nt1\1 .\ulhnr~ .2 f>a1 lie. I :\Ind. 111 ithli I iL:ti•'li I kinq2~. 1'. I kdri, l iJLuih 11 I ah I <~liL. \ .\HI\215 \:-,l I II u <, I/ II I r II> ll Ill ::'117 01 IN I Oii lJII\-.i.\fl? ;--,-.,(I ll J 2 '.\\<.;I Il-l Ill I II 11 \(I Sl/11 lOt> 111\t\21.\ IH I H lll'J <.,'-;('(ltj.J '.\\''-:1 ~lfl 1 I! \1\ I i I Ill '.-1:---.. llh '.\\ ..,, 2 (I~ B/111. 312 WEDNESOA Y, !MARCH 17, 1999- t :00~3:00 PM .\.\II''02fJ\III lli~tol) 11! Ard11h:L'lmc: ('<.,( • l.~(l'lll ,\th. Prog. lt.:d111iqul· ·I ( d ''fll£)*01 \lajnr l'ng \uthur-, I Ytlllllg.. 1\1.~. ,\1{ !<., 215 \\ illillllh. li. ~ 1/.11 ltJ6 .knJ...in~. II Ill '1\1!'\ 110 I ( il ''02-1*02 Mai ,'\mer. '\uth<ll'' 2 ~1itchdl. C;\ IJ.III\1\-1 11-1 I '-.l ·'OIN'O I I R:-.·•oii\ll·1 CdR'' l'i-1\01 C if R'' 1\1 l*OI II'-.'-.'' 17-ft 51 Ill \'lllt!''ll I \1JR•u.IIJ''!ll 1'111 •! 17 f'tll !'<;(. '(l~ll\'ill J'<;\ ~11]-1'~111 I 11!_-dn.mri ng 1: mnomico, k\H'II. 1'. lh1.~i.: l·n:n,;h.::! Yllll DcH:lll\.!1'. ~- ( iocthc\ I au'>t \\ <lrtle .. '\. I lie { ioc-lht/.L'i 1 Binmcdicnl l.'thic' ll<~,k ltalilJI1 I. IJ> 11<1111 il'~ 'J]' .s~ '· Bioi'Hcd ical It hie> <.;(Jd;II Data ,\na I) ~j,; '-;ocial !)~~ chol(l&!)' W8rdt:. \. l~akl·r. R. 1-.c:ycs. 1\·1. Riv~ra. M. llUhCI. R. Chky. /.1\L Mml in g. B. 01 IN 306 Ol.l 1\i 30:\ ll!.\1t\ 11 1 J IHIMN 119 Ill '\IN 116 Ill •MN 21:3 i';\\ Sl: 116 lll!I\IN II 6 01 IN 10(, Bi\11.312 PSY*OJl*OI SPN*l39*01 Ahlllli'II1<YI Psycl]ology Donaldson. G. BAIL 30(} Spll Pcn .. &Spn Amcr Poe, fVIartinet, V. HUMN 014 THURSDAY, ~ARCH 18, 1999-9:00-ll:OOAM CHM*O 14*0 I Scie-ntific Cteativit) 1v/Lab Scaife. C. OLIN ll S CHM*O 14*02 Sckntilic Creativity w/Lah Scaite, C. ,OLIN liS MTH*O 1-0*0 I Calct~lus 'I Cer.vnne, D. HlJMN 01'9 · MTH*OllB*Ol l\<ilculus \\,ilh :Prccalc 2 Kosenthal. K. BAIL 10() !VlTII*O II B*02 f<llculus with Precalc 2 Taylor. A. BAH. 1()2 rvrn-1*0 12*0 I Calm Ius Hart. J. SSCi !04 MTH*O 12*02 Ca!culus 2 Harl. J. SSCI I 04 MTil*O 15*0 I Calculus 3 Zulli, L. BAIL 201' fVITH*015*02 Calculus 3 Zulli, L BAIL 20.7 MTH*O 17*0 I Calculus 4:1ntcg. Vector Niefidd, S. OUN 107 M'ITI*OS8*0 I Appls of' Math lo Ect> .I Johnson, B. BAIL 201 MTH*058*()2 Appls. ofMalh to EC(> I Reynolds, P. BAIL 106 MTH.* 127*0 I Nllll1t::rical Methods Cervo11e. D.P. H!JMN 0 N THURSDAY, MARCH 18, l999~1:00-3:00PM . ACC*OI Q>~<Ol . AMlJ*O·I6*0J Bl0*072*0I EC0*02(:)*01 EC0*042*01 EER* 148*01 EGL*019*02 EGI. *020*02 GEO*OI4*01 • MER*035*01 PHL*Ol9*01 PHL*UO*OI PSC*050*01 I'SY*OJ3*01 PSY*OS0*01 Survey of AccO.IJJlting ML1sic Theory I Pres. Biodi.ver:. w/Lab Bronson. G • Tann, H. Schad Ie:r, M. Financial Markets Lew·is. B. Ma.cro Theory & Policy RatTe.rly,. M. Digi•ta I CircuitS Hassib, E Mqj . Eng. Aulh,Jrs 1 Hi lies, C. Mf:\i. Eng, Authms 2 SJevenson. R Our Changing Planet Hranilriss, .M. Engineering Reliability Bucinell, R. fresJI. Sem. in Phil. Ludw.ig. J. Gr~ek Philosophy Gould, .1. Thco. of lnter.RelaLion Brown, C. l>syc!l of Mem.&Think. Ciree11berg. S. I: due. Psychnlogy · '\kpan C. HUMN 117 ARTS31J HAIL 100 SSCI 014 SSCI 104 NWS·.E 1'14 HUMN IIO HUMN :112 OLIN 307 OLIN 104 HUMN 213 J-IUMN I 1.6 SSCI 010 HAIL 300 BAIL 312 THURSDAY,MARCH 18, l999-4:00-6:00PM · ANT-010-01 & 02 Cultmal Anthro. Gmclch. S. OLIN 115 FRIDAY, MARCH 19, 1999-9:00-11:00 AM CER*160*01 Tnu1sp. f:ngg w/Lab Woltb, f-A IJUTR 300 GEO*J 13*01 J;a~~s·&·EtJV CHari!! .:R'tJdt\ciL D.'·:'\-'-' •cOIJIN:Gil~h·\ GER*I20*01 lilt. Gcnmm I Hamm•Ehsani, K Ol)N 306 GER * 121*0 I Int. (Jerman 2 l·lamm-Ehsani. K. OLIN 306 .MER*033*01 Fltlid Mcc!J. I Anderson. A.M. NWSE 205 PI-IY*017*01 Gen. Physics 1 RciciJ, G. NWSE 300 PHY*017*02 Gen. F•hysics I Surman. R. NW&R·I14; .. PHY*017*03 Gen. Physics I Surman, R. .NWSE ·114 PSY*02(}*0 I Slat. \'lcthlJd;;/Psych. Greenberg, S. 11AIL 312 PSY*020*01 Stat. Methods/Psych. Greenberg. 8. 13AIL 312 FRIDAY, MARCH 19, 1999 - l:00-3:00 PM CHM*OIO*OI CIII\1*0 I 0*02 CHM*012*01 . CHM*012*02 C:!-11\1*032*01 CI-11\1*032*02 f·wHI Chemistry I Fun<l Chemistry ! Fun() Chcm is try 2 Fun<l('hcmistry 2 Martinez, U. L<lU. K. 1-lagcrmaJJ. M. Werner. T. Or~mic Chemistry 2 ;\drian. J Orgmic Chemistry 2 Hull, L. Coitcordy A·lfi'S 109 ARTS 109 SSCI 104 SSCI 104 OLJN 115 OLIN 115 You have only 1 week until fi ... nals, study now, study hard. Think Positive Be Confident & Have a Good ·Attitude.

I ' '· Swimming Dutchmen Swim to Third at States by Drew Dnitia11. Staff Writer At 7:30 Thursday morning Jun .. ior,Pete Humphreys woke up in the Troy Comfort Inn, his mission was simple: swim faster than he ever had before. For Humpnreys and the eighteen other Union Swim- mers and Divers this weekend proved to be a tinesome one. Disease and insomnia ran ram• pant ·through the bctttleground of the RPI pool In the end Onion emerged third. The meet started out on a good strong platform for the swimming Dutchman. The first event~ the Union 200 free-relay took first, with a 1:24.42 a national B cut. The relay co11sisted of Jun- ior,.Ali-AmericanBiH F:lick; Junior, All-American Hump.hre~s; Senior, · co-captain, All-American Dave Searles; and Seniot, co-captain, All- American JeffHoerle. \People look The 500 free was won by Hamilton's DJ Postles who broke the ch~mpionship· record by over a second by going 4:34.77 and Sophomore Nathaniel Martin took fifteenth place, with a time of 4:59.04. • Searles took second in the 200 Individual Medley with a aational A cuttime ofl :52.8.5. Senic0r Matt Mauriello took ninth with a time of 2:00~48 and Freshman Kyle Schack took sixteentlrwith a time of2:03.56~ Seniorco-captain-Ail-AmericanJeff Haerle took second in the 50 free w'ith a national B cut going 21.01. Flicktook fourth with a national B cut going 21.25. In the last event offirst day, the 400 medley-relay, Union placed first. Searles swam the backstroke leg, Humphreys, swam the breast- stroke leg and Schack swam the Fly leg. Most notably, though w.as the freestyle leg swum by Haerle, wha team took frrst making the national B cut of 1':34.44, and beating the Hamilton relay team by well over a second, but on an extremely con- troversial call, a coke bottle eye- glassed .official disqualified the Union relay. \Everyone knows it was a BS call, everyone on that pool deck saw it was dean, even the opposing teams coaches. That was straight BS.\ Freshman Pete Corritori said This was a cl7itical blow to the Dutchman. Not only . did they lose the 64 points acquired for winning the relay, but also re- ceived zero points for the event, the slowest A relay in the meet au- tomatically scored 2S points, and in a fast paced meet like States, scoring zero points in any event can sink a team. From now on the Dutchmen were on the rebound. Searles took second in the next event,. the 400 Individual-Medley with a national B cut going4:06.21. Two Union swimmers fin- ished in the top ten of the 100 fly, Schack fifth with a time of 53.13, Mauri.elo took seventh with a time of 53.29. Flick took seventeenth go- ing a 54.33 even th~:mgh it was the first time he swam the event all year. And Sop hom ore Aa·ron Seliger took twenti- eth with' a time of 88 Hoerle took sec- The men's swimming tea~ warms up prior to the New York St(J.te Championship ond in the 2 0° free - . this we-ekend. The menfinishedthird out of 16 teams. · · with a national B cut of 1 :42.63, and senior at us.and·they wonder how the helJ. · split·a 44.8. · · · · · ' ·Charlie Robertson took eighth with we do it, they are s11re they can · Day two started out with seri- a time ofl :49.42. Humphreys wo:n beatusandallyeartlteythinkthey ousqualms, Themorning.sessicin' the number one seed in the 100 are the best, then out of nowhere went well, but in the championship breaststroke with a national B .cut we beat their relay, all the coaches heat at night, disaster struclc. The going 58.88, but took sixth in the are in awe.\ bragged Humphreys. Union college 200 Medley rela chain ionshi round. Junior Rob Kirkman took tenth with a time of 1:01.43. Martin took fifth in the I 00 backstroke with a tirn e of 53. 92, al- most for seconds off his in sea~on best time. Day two ended with a second place .finish in the 8()0 tree relay by: Searles, Robertson, Maurielo, and Hoerle. Saturday rnoming it was difficult to get out of bed. After two full days ofracmg, most ofthe team was exhausted and muscles were tight. Day three started with Martin who took fifteenth in the 200 back- strokewith &time of2:0534. Haerle won the 100 free with a national B cut going 46.31, Flick took ninth with a47 .48, Humpl:ueystook four- teenth with a time of 48.86 and Robertson took fifteenth with a time of49.42. Junior Rob Kirkman took elev- enth in the 200 breaststroke with a 2: 15~99~ Searles tool-; second in the 200 fly with a nati011alBcut going I :54.37, Schack took fifth going I :57.30 and Mauriei<J took seventh with a time of I :5'>25. The last eventofthe rneetwas the 400 free relay in which union placed third with a time of3:1 0.26. On the one- meter board Junior Adam Heshman, plagued by the flu, took tenth and on the three meter he took sixth. Freshman Erik Seholm placed twelfth on tile three meter and Freshman JeffBenjarnin took seventieth. When the smoke cleared Union had placed third. If it had not been forthebaddisquali- fication call, they would have fin- ished second, but nevertheless third. It was a good meet, and al- most everyone left happy, five months ofdillgenttraining paid off, and every Union swimmer broke at least one personal best time. Good luck to the swimmers who made it to nationals, otherwise see you next ear. A Cold To-urnament . Basketball in ECAC Playoffs by Chip Cntrey . Sta.IJWriter The Union College Ultimate / frisbee Team return-ed from, \A Damn Cold Tournament,\ last weekend with fantastic results. UCUFT has spent the last few weeks getting ready fot t-he spr-ing season. Juggling practice times with many other lesser club sports for the use ofUnion.College facili- ties, the team finally llad a chance to participate in the first weekend- long tournament of tile season. Known for its characteristically cold weather, it traditionally being held during the last weekend in February, \A Damn Cold Tourna- ment,\ is just what ev~ry Ultimate club is looking for to start offthe season. Day l: Once Team Scrappa, UCUFT arrived to the field, things got ugly. Tpere were disk5 being hurled through the cold February ski resembling some sort of bibli- cal reference to the Second Com- ing. And yes, UCUFT was at the helm of all the action. One player, Adam Angle, remark(!d, \Wow.\, while others just stood flatfooted andgazed. · The excitement that electrified the field was harnessed by teams as they bravely confronted the harsh winds in the furious fight for victory. Although Union knew that only one team co,u ld be crowned the Alpha Team~ they fought like Trojans under siege in hopes of bringing home the title. It turned out, that by the end of day one, Scrappa was up for a tough day two if they were to re- main stuck to their goals and make it to the finals .. But, particu I arty by the end of this day, every player on the field was still able tll walk away with the feeling that they had fought a good battle, and the chips were down, but not out. Day 2: Day two was a dark day for Scrappa. As it turns out, dur- ing the festive bowling activity that was he\!dthe night before, two of the players, Calvert Crary imd Ed Lallier became violent witlreach other over honest bowling and . fashion. After a few minutes, opin- ions of an honest bowling frame were being shouted across the ally, and the guilty party, Ed, had to run for cover. That little spout, aswell as all the underage drinking, made the next days tournament difficult for a select few members of the team to perfonn. The UCUFT, Scrappa, is.ayoung two-years-old, consistiag of mostly new members. Ther~ will be pickup games nearly every day in front of the Nott, and all are wel- come. As the captain of Scrappa, Mike lger, put it to this reporter, \Future extremely bright.\ by David Brooks Sports Editor After practicing for a week not knowing when or who their next opponents may be, the Shooting DtHchmen made the ECAC play- . offs. Union traveled down the Thruway to face SUNY New Paltz at 7:30 last night. The Dutchmen finished their regular season in third place in the UCAA with a 15- 1 0 overall record. The Shooting Dutchmen are the first team from · Uniondurlngthe 1998-1999school year to be invited to the playoffs. New Paltz, the number one seed, has an identical record to Union at 15-10. · Although the teams have not played any common oppo- nents, head coach Bob Montana said, \We know they are a very ath- letic team with good offensive re- bounding.\ Appearing on Primetime Sports Monday night on WRUC;Mbntana added, \New Paltz has two good back court play- ers in Keith Kenney and Woody Edwards. Kenney averages about 18.5 points. a game. He always gets the points, so we just have to make him take a lot of difficult shots, and keep his shooting percentage low.\ Union has started four freshman, Dave Musella, Aaron Galletta, Ray Watson, and Jason Manning, for the past nine games after losing starting point guard Zena Woldeyesus during the Princeton game. Under the leadership ofse- nior captain Rob Gr()elz, the team has responded with tlleir best sea- son under Montana, and in the last five seasons. No current Union player has seen post-season action. The ex- perience will be a leaming experi- ence, bl!t to Groelz there is no more future at Union. He went into the game hoping to end his careerwith an ECA C title and a stepping stone for the program in the years to come. Musella leads the team in scor- ing, averaging 16 points a game, while Galletta is right behind him with I 5.5. The freshrnen are sixth and seventh in leag;ue scoring, while Groelz is ninth, a'.'eraging 14.7 points a game. Galletta stated, \Ollr goal was to make itto the post-seas()n. We've done that, now we 11ave to keep winning.\ He also added, \They are an athletic team, but we know they can be beaten. If we play tough and hard, we can win_\ The Shooting Dutchmen en- tered last night's gMne with the best three point shooting in the country, at45%. Musella is an im- pressive fifth in the na:tion in three- point field goal percentage, mak- ing 52.1% of his sh()ts. Yet, they average only 10 threes a game, nearly l 0 fewer then top ranked Grin ell. Union is mainly a perim- eter team, with their inside-scoring coming off cuts and fast breaks. They have never been a post up team, a11d they did not change that last night. IfNeYV Paltz defends the perim- eter, Union's passing will no doubt go inside to cutting players. They have the ability to score Inside and outside, making Union a tough team to guard. New Paltz does, however, have the fifth best shot balocker in the country in Tsimis Demetri()s, who is averaging 3.3 blocks a game. Union was second in the UCAA in scoring, averaging 75 points a game, w bile New Paltz is fifteenth in the mttion in defense field goal percentage with 3 8%. Neither team is ranked in the NCAA Division III ranking, how- ever New Paltz received an honor- able meQtioned this week. In the other games of the EC AC playoffs, Alfred is at Fredonia, Nazaretlt at Rensselaer, and St. Lawrence at Potsdam. The winner ofthesegameswillmeetatthe high- est seed remaining, where the semi-frnalsand finals will be played this Saturday and Sunday. The semis will be played at 6:00PM and 8:00PM on Saturday, with the fi. nals being played at 2:00 PM on Sunday. At the time of print, the games h:ad not been completed.

Tourney Week in America Starts March Madness by Brian Terlinsky Sports Editor It's tourney week in America and that means March Madness has officially begun in 1999. Yes, that is right, this week college basket- baH teams all around the country will go all out in different confer- ence tournaments and' try to gain a prestigious bid into this year's NCAA tournament. ln addition, when tourney week is officiaHy over this weekend, the NCAA will announce late Sunday evening America's 64 best college basket- baH teams. Those 64 teams will have the chance to participate in one of American sport's most popular and competitive championships, to hopefully reach the famous Fi- nal Four, which this year is taking place in beautiful St. Petersburg,. Florida. This past weekend, I had a chance to catch aglimpse of what may occur this week in conference tournament action and also the up- coming NCAA tournament. On Sunday I traveled to Syracuse to watch a packed-house of 30,000 plus people, of the twentieth ranked Orangemen taking on the numberthirdranked UCONN team. Both teams were pumped up, since UCONN was looking for revenge on the Orangel'nen, as Syracuse beat UCONN last month. Do not forget that Syracuse happened to defeat UCONN witnouttwoofthe Huskies~ best starting players, in- cluding Ri~hard Hamilto11 and ~ak.e Voskuhl. Furthennore, Sunday's game was the largest crowd at a college basketball game during this whole season. The Orangemen actually came out strong, starting the game on a 10-0 run, dominating the court and using the rowdy fans and students for their .ad- vantage. Sherman Blackwell and Jason Hart were making great jLJmp shots and alley- opps, while UCONN struggled to land a basket dming the first five min- utes of the game. How- ever, the half ended with Syracuse only leading by three, but they were in for a big surprise, as Jim Calhoun's experienced and top ten squad would tum the game to- tally around in the remainiag 20 minutes. UCONN came out in the second half, with a new attitude, more intensity and showed the Orangemen what is it like to be ranked number three in the coun- try. Khalid El-Amin was unbeliev- able, along with Jake Voskuhl, who both madeplays,landed shots and led their Husky team to a 70-58 win. The point ofthis isthatUCONN, Iikemanyothertop 10 teams, have the ability to win the NCAA tour- nament in three weeks in Florida. Quality basketball teams are able to come back from being down during a game and every player gives 1 00 percent for all 40 min- utes of the game. Syracuse, however, was unable to do this, as they turned-over the ball several times in the second half, made bad passes and lost their How They Did This Term ... MEN'S HOCKEY Despite their 3-24-3 record, the hockey team has faced a challenge no other tt'!am in the ECAC has had to deal with, recruiting without the same financial aid that the Ivy League schools give. With nine wins in the last ·two years, and 46 losses, something needs to change for the program tp survive. WOMEN'S HOCKEY In their first season in the ECAC the team struggled to win two games this seaso11. They Were consistantly outplayed and outmatched, and outscored 147-27. However, the program has solid recruits for next season and looks towards a bright furture. MEN'S BA·SKETBALL The men enjoyed their first winning season in five years and made it to the playoffs for the first time since the 93-94 campaign. After start- ing four freshmen forthe last nine games, the future looks strong. WOMEN'S BASKETBALL Despite their 9-15 record, the Shooting Dutchwomen had their best record in the last six seasons. They started five underclassmen and will not graduate any seniors. With the team beginning to gel, look for a powerhouse in the 11ear furture. MEN'S SWIMMING After a slow beginning, the squad turned on the jets and began swim- ming fast at the states. They'll send Jeff Haerle and Dave Searles to nationals, with thepossibility of a relay team making the trip. WOMEN'S SWIMMING Like their counterparts, the women also swam fast at states, grabbing fourth. With only one senior, the women look to the top next year. MEN'S. TRACK A rebuilding season for the team, Peter Flynn provided a spark by winning the 3000rn. With a young team, the team'sfuture is bright. WOMEN'S TRACK Another young team, the women had three top ten finishers in the states. all underc Jassmen. With a young team, hopes are high next year. \Survey Says\ · (Grades) C-IC c B+ B A- B+ B- whok~,mentality. Top ten teams like UCONN, Duke,Stanfi>td, and Au- burn are the best in the country since they can, dominate their com- petitions in shooting, rebounding, and team defense. Let's look for a mo- ment at w hi c h teams will re,ceive bids, and the othet teams who hope to see some post- season ac- tion. Of course, the top 25 ranked teams will d-efinitely be invited, alcmg with ·every con~ feren·ce. tournament winner. In many cases, conference tournament winners are. usually already ranked teams, which leave additional spots open for upcoming programs to gettheir IS minutes offame. . . Currently, Duke is the number one team in the country, at 29-1. Most likely they will win the ACC tournament in-Charlotte this week- end, retain the number one seed, ancl probably be a final four con- testan:t in late March. Neverthe- less, ]o()k out for other ACCteams like fifth ranked Maryland and the Tarh.eels from North Carolina. Both teams are young but have the po- . tential ofreachingthe final four. In the Atlantic Te.n, J()hn Chaney's Temple is in, hutGeo:r:ge Washington}ustcame offa bigwin ag<1inst Xavier (Who is looking to get in too). which might help get them as pot in the bracket. . The Big East is pretty rnuch spo· ken for, f.IS U CONN, St. Jotm '.s, Mi- ami, Syracuse, and ViUano:va are in. Lookforsomemajor action byBig Ten teams ·too as Iowa, Michigan State, Wisconsin, Ohio State and lndia11.a have bids and will be threat~; for making the Final Four. In the P A C-10 and SEC, power- houses like UCLA, Arizona Stanford, Kentucky, Aubl)rn, Florida Tennessee and _Arkansas aH will be in the tourney. However, watch out for Miss is- sippi State from the SEC and Tulsa from tbe WAC to make surprising appearances. It is going to another exciting tournament this year. Although Duke .is number one in the colin- try, my prediction is theyw411 reach the Fi11al Four, but lose ,jn either the semis or final game. My prediction for the winner is goingt()beUCONN'. This mayJJe a little crazy, but my gut instinct says that Duke will choke Iikethey have in tf1e past, and 1 feel UCONN has the best starting five and wil1 prevail,t1ms retaining the number ·one spot and being national charn- This Week in Union Athletics Friday, Marcil 5 Men's Hockey@ Yale ?:30 PM Saturday, March (). Men's H~ckey@ Princeton 7:00PM *************************~************** · The .Sports Editors would like td thank the entire sports infermation department, especially director George Cuttita,jor all oftheir kelp wiih team nd in-dividual statistics tltroughout tlti winter season.

ge to s- Sport~ OLnntnrbieusis • March 4, 1999 • Page 19 Union Drops Both Games in Final Home Weekend For the Second Season in a Row, the Skating Dutchmen Fini~h Last in ECAC byJonathan Gasthalter Editor~in-Chief Emeritus For three years, Joel Bond, Ryan Boyd, Brent Ozarowski, Leeor Shtrom, Mark Szucs, and Mark Will had stood by and watched as their older teammates were honored for their four seasons as Skating Dutchtnen on senior night at Achil- les Rink Saturday night, the six senior skaters were honored at the end of the game by the College and their fans. lthasbeena difficult fo-ur years for the elder statesmen of the Unionteam. lnfouryears,theteam has played for three coaches. They have known the man who recruited them, and who now serves as their head coa:ch, Kevin Sneddon, for the longest tlme. Sneddon, who next weekend will complete his firstsea- son as Union's head coach, be- lievesthat despite the tough times, the seniors have had over four years, the graduating Dutchmen have become stronger as people. \I've always preached that you have to take tile positive out of any situation,\ said Sneddon. \These guy~ have probably learned more about how to persevere than most people do in a lifetimethe last four years. Coming out of it, I think they've leamed a lot more of life lessons than hockey lessons.\ Unbn has only made the play- offs once in the four years that the six seniors have been apart of the program. That came during. the Dutchmen's banner year of 1996- 97, one that saw the team go 18-13- J. be for.~ losing in the first round of tile playoffs to arch-rival RPI. Since that season, the Dutchmen, ,going into the final weekend of :play, in the 1998-99 season have ()nlyhadone nine wins .. Union cur- rently stands in last place in the . ECAC with a recordofl-17-2 in the conferance, 3-24-3 overall. How- ever, ir1 spite .of all .of the losses, the proposed move out of Achil- les Rink, and the controversies sur- rounding the lack .of preferential financial aid or scholarships for its players., the Union team has re- mained strong. \It's been a .difficult year, a difncult four years for me, with thre.e coaches and only one winning season,\ said Bond. \But ifl had to do it all over again, I would never change a th·ing. I feel proud to be a part of the Union hockey tradition.\ The Dutchmen, this past week- end, had the opportunity to end .the home season on a high note, facing off against Colgate and Cornell. Friday night, the Dutch· men got themselves into penalty trouble again after leading 3-1 and · · chasing Colgate's starting fresh- man netrn inder Jason Lefevre. Colgate overcame the two-goal deficit and defeated Union 4-3. · After the Red Raiders scored first at 13:26 of the period, the Dutchmen's Jay Varady netted his first goal of the season tying the score. Varady, who took a pass from Jason Ralph to start a two- on-one rush into the ColgateZone with Alex Todd, beat the freshman netminder with a strong wrist shot just below the circle. Less than a minute later, Union took a 2-1 lead. Mason Anderson won a battle in the slot for the puck and beat Lefevre for his third tally of the season. Szucs increased the Union lead to 3-l with the Dutchmen short- handed, when he used his speed to beat a Colg~te forward and put a nice wrist shot past Lefevre. Af- ter Szucs' goal, Colgate replaced '------' Sloan Mill~rrrc the freshman goaltender with jun- The Dutchmen come together after the Cornell game to ior Shep Harder at 3:44 of the congratulates the graduating seniors. stanza. The momentum, after a Union penalty, quickly belonged to many of the players. the Red Raiders as Colgate so~Fed \lt was one of the toughest power-play goals to take a 4 _ games I ever had to play,\ said 31ead going into the third period. Szucs. \The third period came Onion was never able to recover along, and with about fifteen min- and the game ended with Colgate utes to go, I started getting a bit ontop4- 3 . choked up. It was tough to keep \With a team with that kind of my focus on the game.\ Szucs and Ozarowski both talent, you can't take penalties that agreed that the team has been a lot are useless. We're taking penal- ties behind the play, after the of fun, despite the tough seasons. \The camaraderie on the team, the . whistle, penalties that are not hard atmosphere in the locker-room is working penalties,\ said Sneddon. wllat I' II miss the most,\ said Szucs. On senior night, the Cornell Big Red took a 1-0 lead midway Ozarowski echoed that, stating, \We've been through a lot, through the first period after Cap- They'resuch good guys. lfsbeen tain Kyle Knopp scored on the fun, even though we've been los- . P ower play. Cornell struck again ing.\ just over six minutes into the sec- The Dutchmen end the season ond period, making the score 2-0, before Jeff Wilson scored his 8 th this weekend on the road as they of the season, cutting the Cornell lead in half. The Big Red netted one more goal and Union fell3-l. travelto Yale and Princeton. Between the Pipes S.loan Miller!TC Union celebrates after scoring against Colgate on Friday. After the end of the game, a large portion of the 2,098 fans in atten- dance stayed to watch as Union honored its graduating seniors, in what was a moving moment for Marl\ Szucs leads Union in goals with nine. Brent Ozarowski and Bryant Westerman played de- fense for the second weekend in a row. The 1999 Men's ECA C Hocke .. l!.. Standings PLACE TEAM POIN'TS w L T GF GA OVERALL GF GA 1 Clarkson - 3 - ----- . 109 34 17 .0 84 43 20 9 1 80 2 St. Lawre.nce 31 14 3 3 76 44 19 10 3 109 84 3 Rensselaer 27 13 6 1 85 57 20 9 -1 125 91 4 Princeton 23 11 s 1 60 59 16 10 1 85 80 4 Yale 23 10 7 3 59 55 12 12 3 77 81 6 Colgate 22 10 8 2 60 52 15 11 4 89 77 7 Cornell 21 g. 8 3 65 56 12 12 3 85 80 e Vermont 16 7 11 2· 50 57 13 14 2 80 81 9 Harvard 14 6 12 2 55 62 11 14 2 81 1 ()1 10 Dartmouth 1.3 6 13 1 56 73 10 16 1 86 1 ()3 1 1 Brown 12 4 12 4 49 ,70 8 14 5 77 89 12 UNION 4 1 17 z 32 ·33 3 24 3 52 1t2 - ,!110•

,_.,.,.,, / ·.·~ . ,>·>.- ~ '' ' ,,, ~- i, : );-' • . . -. ' . ..·. ' ···· · Slo~n Miller/TC ..

During the last · ome weekend of t~e season, Bryant W estennan sk:ates past·:a Cornell defender as lJnion falls 3 ... 1. Opposite, Jason Ralph takes a shot on Colgate's goaltender in Uniqn' s 4-3 loss. · . ..,. - Sloan Miller/TC

