l f \ \Ne\Ver-·.interrupt yoirr enemy when he is mal{ing a mistake'' -Napoleon Bonaparte T ·b·· w·· k .. ·.··'ls .:e·e·•· News: Security Possibly Liable . in Assault J>age4 Features: Old Favorites Return :f~ge12 World News: Crisis Escalates in E. Timor Page. 14 S.ports: Dutchmen Win Football Opener Page 16 Inside CampusNews-3 Opinions- 6 Technology- 7 A &E-10 FetJtures -12 World News -14 Sp.orts - 16 Our E-mail concotdy@ vu.union.edu bySampha~rChhea Contributing Writer Amon~ the many rcnovatien projects taking place at Unioli, the. new housing faciliti~s on Seward and Huron i~ the biggest one thus fur.\ With folll' students to an apart- ment, complete with single car- peted bedrooms, a kitchen, a li\- ing room, a bathroom, a porch, a refrigerator, closets, couches, and tekphone services, these houses · will indubitab:ly be in high demand in years to c.Qme. director of campus operations. \Thes.e are the new st~le • houses,\ said David Gryzbows , \NeverbeforehadUnionhadthese CluFiie Casey type of houses.\ , By purchas:ing the broken down Sew_ard resident Mrs. Grace llic;k W:elco~es Union stu~e11ts Michelle houses along Seward anifHuron, Morrm 'OJ, left, and Kelly Johrnofl OJ, nght to the nezgllborhood. Union will ren()vate and turn them into student housing. Aimed to house 165 students in 21 houses ! by January, 13 arenow completed, currently housing 9() students. Some hollf>es would be theme houses, made for the upperclass- men, students will be picked in a lottery. The project started because of in.sufficientliving space for stu- dents. These houses can he. iden .. tified as Union's by a triangle on their roof. AMther on-going project is the Nott/Seward Parking Lot, which use to be just a muddy space for parking. It now has pavement, wallcways, lights, and emergency phones. There is only landscaping left to do which should be done in about two to three weeks. Besides the Seward-Huron project, there were other projects that started in the summer as well. One that is completed now is FenJ Bouse. It was meant to be ~e bouse of tlte fratemity Alpha Delta Phi, but because they lost tlleir housing !privileges, it is now a h()use for in- clependent students, h.CJusjng 19 at the moment. The hous.e that be- !()nged to Alpha Delta Fbi now will be renovated into A..dmissions, ~JVhich plans to be opened in the qJring. Others that are C()m.pleted in- est elude a new Public Relation Office (Office of Communications) at 69 Union Avenue; new classrooms in the Social Sciences building; a new Human Resollrc es building on 1 7 South Lane an<l a new home for the IncubatorCenterat4 NottTer- race. Thurston Honse, the East Asian Studies theme hcJUse, which l!olds 16 students have moved to a new location on 1294 Lenox Road. In addition, the reaovation of Parker Rice, which is a. historic building, was renovated in.to a house forCol- lege Resources. Finally, rencvations of the base- ment and first flCJor of classrooms and offices of the Humallities Building were c\mpleted. One impendillg project is the tennis courts adjacent to the li- brary. Plans are(() create two more tennis court and abasketball court, allowing students to look out at a nice landscape from the library, said Gm;bowsky. The city is alsi() planning to put new sidewalks, curbs, lighting around Union. Withall these reno- vations and continuous improve- ments of Union, it is no surprise that the college is recognized as one of the 22 can~puses with a his- toric landscape by the American Society of Landscape Architects (ASLA). Hull Dismisses Dean Cool byJimDeWan News Editor The 1999-2000 academic year officially began last Tuesday night with a new A~ting Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty, Dean Cbristina Sorum, formeriy Dean of Arts and Sci- ences. The previous Vice President for Academic Affairs, Linda Cool, is currently on aoneyearpaid sab- batical leave; On June 13, the day of gradua- tion, Cool left for a one-week con- ference in Annapolis, a conference of undergrad11ate educators from qualified institutions. She returned to work the following Mmiday, June 21. tJp()ri het return, Presi- dent Hul1 had an early morning meeting witltCool where Hull con- gratulated heron a$400,000 grant from the Mellon Fo1mdation she had been instrutnental in procur- ing for the college and then told her he had found a successor for her position and she would be on a o11e year paid leave, beginning on July 1, ten days later. In a brief, carefully worded statement, Hull said he had made his decision before graduation, but decided to wait until the end of the academic year to make the change. He expressed his desire to have \better chemistry and a better rela\ tionship\ with those who closely surround him in his professional duties. He also said, \The office ofVice President for Academic Af- fairs needs strong leadership.\ When asked if Dean Cool was not providing the leadership he ex- pected, Hull refused to comment any further, saying, \Pe.rsonnel matters are confidential.\ \I was taken off guard by his de- cision,\ replied Cool when asked about her immediate reaction, \I wasvery surprised.\ \I ne:ver sa-w any bad chemistry between us, 11 Cool answered in response to Hull's need fot \better chemistry . 11 \Every titne a decision was made I did my best to make it work,\ Cod stated. She conceded professional disagteements occurred between her and Hull, but described them as the kind of normal, intellectual discourse that was enco-11raged be- tween her, Hull, and other senior staffmembers. \There was never any friction or tension,\' Cool said. In response to questions about her leadership, Cool pointed to the numerous projects the college has undertaken since she assumed the job five years ago. Coo 1 was care- ful not to take full credit f()rproj ects such as the F.W. Olin Center and the Schaffer Library renovation, saying, \These projects were not the result of one person' :s work, but [thought we were part <Jf a team.\ Before Hull made his fmal deci- sion, he contacted :Professor ThereseMcOuty, Chairofthe Fac- ulty Executive Committee and Pro- fessor Clifford Brown, Secretary of the Faculty Executive Committee at the end of Winter 1errn to solicit their opinion. In his C()nversation with Hull, Brown \urged Hull to see if th.e circumstances couldn't be reconciled.\ Both McCarty and Brown never bad any problems in th.-eir interac- tion with Cool, although McCarty .noticed tension between Cool and Hull's senior staff. Hull's senior staff includes Vice President for Finance and Administration, Diane Blake, Vice Pres.ident for Admis- sions and Financial Aid, Acting Vice President fCJr Academic Af- fairs, Christina Sorum, and Vice President for College Relations, Tom Gutenberger. When Co<> I was dismissed, Gutenbergerhad not yetjoined the administration, and Sorum was.still Dean of Arts and Sciences. Lundquist had a •\fine working re- lationship\ withCool, but declined to comment when asked about the \chemistry\ amongst the seaior staff members, sltying he respected Hull's decision. Blake echoed simi- lar sentiments saying there was no friction between her and Cool, al- though she described Hull and his senior staff as a team, and said, ''I don't know if the team was work- ing effectively.\ Hull again co.ntacted McCarty and Brown in May to let them know he had made his decisi()n to Continued on page 3

Campus Life . Page 2 • September 16, 1999 • aloncnr.bien:!lit!.i Security Incident Report Friday, September 3- Saturday, September 11 Friday, September 3, 1999: Unauthorized Entry Larceny 9:53am Sillimfln Hall basement. Unidentified individual in office. Suspect left area and was unable to locate. 1 0:55am Potter House.Theft of cordless p:hone from unlocked room. Saturday, September 4, 1999: Substance Abuse Criminal Mischief Sunday, September 5, 1999: Social policy violation Harassment Criminal Mischief Substance Abuse Monday, September 6, 1999.: Larceny Burglary Larceny storage area. Substance Abuse Crimina] Mischief Tuesday, September 7, 1999: Trespass Public Lewdness Unauthorized Entry 1:15am Kappa Sigma. Unruly student .. Conduct Charges Filed. 1:55pm North College. Damage to soda machine. I 2:45am Chi Psi Conduct Charges filed. Off Campus. Conduct Charges filed. 8:20am Off Campus. Contractor supplies vandalized. 11 :09pm Davids()nHallOdor of marijuana. 9:34am Wells House. Television removed. 1 0:43am Davidso:n HalL Theft of electronics. 2:35pm Potter House.Theft of electronic equipment from 3:05pm Fox Hall. Marijuana use. Conduct Charges Filed. 9:50pm Davidson Hall. Bicycle tampering. 5:05am Off Campus. Trespass at B9athouse. Suspects Advise of Private Prope:rty status. 5: I 4pm Off Campus. SuspeCt unidentified. 11 :23pm Davidson Hall. Unauthorized entry thru window. Conduct Charges filed. Wednesday, September 8, 1999: Noise Complaint Social Policy Violation Criminal Mischief Propped Door 1 0:35pm North College. Advised and will comply. 11 :02pm Phi Gamma Delta. Unregistered party. Conduct Charges Filed. 11 :30pm Off Campus. Vandalism to vacant College owned house. 11 :30pm Richmond Hall. Student advised of propping doors. Thursda~ September 9, 199'): Harassment Fire Alarm Criminal Mischief Criminal Mischief Life Safety Violation Substance Abuse/Drugs Friday, September 10, 1999: Criminal Mischief Criminal Mischief Open Container 2:22am North College. Student harassment. Conduct Charges filed. 5:OOam North Colonade. Equipment malfanction. 8:40am Phi Gamma Delt~. Numerous acts of vandalism Conduct Charges and Life Safety Violations issued. 9: lOam Nott Memorial. Stained glass windows vandalized. 1:14am Chi Psi-~si Upsilon Life Safety Violations issued. 2:18pm Seward Place.Drug paraphernalia found. Conduct Charges filed. 8:39am West CoLlege. Vandalism to door. 3:48pmHuntleyand Library Lane. Vandalism to window. ll :40pm Campus, Conduct Charges filed. Saturday, September 11, 1999: Arrest Criminal Mischief Larceny Criminal Mischief Fire Alarm 12:24am Park Place. Suspect arrested for trespass. 1:08am Bailey Field. Vandalism to goal post. 3:48am Psi Upsil.on. Suspects identified. Conduct Charges filed. 12 :04pm Chi Psi room door vandalized. Conduct Charges filed. 9:40pm North C()Jlege. Accidental grease fire in kitchette. No damage. No i11juries. Announcements ATTENTION STUDENTSAND STAFF \ . . . .. Copies of the draft of the Middle States Report are av~n­ able in the Student Activities office and at the 'Circulation . Desk in Scltaffer Library. The Middle 'States Steering Com• mittee looks forward to your input. Comments on the re- ports should be directed to the Co-chairs of the Steering Committee, Dean Christie Sorum in Feigenbaum Ball (sorumc@union.edu) or to Prof. Alan Taylor in the Math- ematics Department in Bailey ~all (taylora@union.edu). !An ad hoc committee has been formed to consider the ~enurability of James Adrian, Assista11t Professor in the !Department of Chemistry. The committee members are ~renda Johnson (Mathematics), Leslie Hull (Chemistry), !Ann Anderson (Mechanical Engineerlng), and Adrian Frazier (:English), Chair. Any member of tlte 'C:ampus community !Wishing to offer written or oral testimony concerning Pro ... fessor Adrian's teaching, scholarsh.ip or college service should contact Professor Frazier (6207,. fraziera@union.edu) or any other member of the committee. !An ad hoc committee has been forme.d to consider the 1 tenurability of Donald Rodbell, Assistant Professor in the IJ>epartment of .Geology. The committee members are Ekram !Hassib (EE/CS), Stephen Horton (Bi<Jlogy), Kurt ~oUocher (Geology), and Shelton Schmidt (Economics), Chair. Any member of the campus community wishing-to ·offer written or oral testimony concerning Professor Rodbell's teaching, scholarship or college service should contact Professor Schmidt (6218, schmidts@union.edu) or any other member of the committee. !An ad hoc committee has been formed to consider the ~enurability of Roset Khosropour, Assistant Professor in the !Departmen-t of Physics. The committee members are Seyfollah Maleki (Physics), David Hemmendinger (EE/CS), !Bonney MacDonald (English), and Susan Niefield (Math~ ematics), Chair. Any member of the campus community wish- ing to offer written or oral testimony concerning Professor Khosropour's teaching, scholarship or college service should contact Professor Niefield (6163, niefiels@union.e~u} lOr any other member of the committee. !An ad hoc committee has been formed to consider the ~enurability of Stephen Schmidt, Assistant Professor in the Department of Econ~mics. The committee members are Janet Anderson (Chemistry), Clifford Brown (Political Sci- ence), Eshragh Motahar (Economics), and Sigrid Kellenter j(Modern Languages), Chair. Any member of the campus community wishing to offer written .or cnal testimony con- cerning Professor Schmidt's teaching, scholarship 'br college service should contact Professor KeUenter (6212, kellentsuvunion.edQ} or any other member of the commit- ~ee. Pre-Law Advisint Forum For Freshmen and Sophomores Find Out About: ... Choosing a major ... Courses which prepare you for the LSAT ... Current trends and changes in the law school application process ... Do you really want to go to law scllcol? Questions to ask? Thursday, September 16, 1999 ss 110 4:30PM For more information call Professor Weiner X6066 Big Brothers/Big Sisters needs volunteers to spend time with disadvantaged children in the Schenectady area. You do not need a car. Hours are flexible. You will have fun while helping a child in need. Informational meetini:: Tuesday September 21, 1999 5:00-6:00PM Reamer Campus Center Room 408 Call x6228 to RSVP We look forward to meeting you! c Re un rar. ve; ing SOl ch: ed1 Co Th re:t: fre gni stu anc S@l alu rna are res sig j latl sec gro Fm of' sit) ran anc em titn Un: pk anc the 1 art~ der ger les! gre pos egc eac 1 nat s rep wit dur cor: sen c rel( I- fill wil nell knc wil nell sen Ac1 BU1 Ull( As~ fair c to 1: Aff Jul: Un; pa< Pot Wh4 v pla1

Campus News C!!llltt.01.\biensis• September 16, 1999 41 Page 3 U.S. News Ranks Union 33 Out of 160 Convocation Opens 205tb Year by Shannon Conaty Contributing Writer ter calculating all of the information received from the school and the by 1 GinaCampanella StajfWriter Wintergreen Orchard House, , Theopeningprocessionforthis Every year USN ews and World Union's fmal rescaled score was • • year's con vocation ceremony was Report rates the top colleges and 73,0; we tied with Lafayette, as . a centrast of formally robed pro- universities in the country. The number 33. The top three schools • fess<lrs and the casual student rartldng ofthe schools depend their were Swatl:unore College, Amherst . body; overall score compared to other College, and Williams College~ Once inside the stifling walls of schoob in their group. Every year the methods used •. Mem~>rial Cbape~ Professor :Byron Information is gathered by sur- t<J rank the different schools are •. Nichols -delivered the opening of veys sent to the schools and miss• changed to varying degrees. This • · ·the conv(}cation. ing information is iilled in by other year a new component in detennin- ' . The Chai.rman of the Board of sources:, such as Wintergreen Or- ing a school's rank is annual spend;. •• Trustees, David B. Chapnick, then chard House, which publishes ing per student.IfSchoolA spends · welcomed the student body, staff educational data, and the National $200,000, School B spends and faculty back for another aca- Collegiate Athletic Association. $100,000, a:nd School C $50,000, US . demic yea:rat Union College. The seven categories are academic News would have rated them frrst, • Prdess<lr Therese McCarty, reputation, student retention (both second, and third, but n~tweighted . Chair of the Faculty Exec11tive freshma11 retention and six-year the differences in the amount of · Committee then added her own graduation rate), facultytesomces, money spent ideas about the upcoming aca- studell.t selectivity(espeeially SAT The difference was enoagh to . • demic year. and ACT scores), financial re- place Caltech frrst, before Harvard, . • Michael J. Winn '00, the cl!ITent sources, graduation rate, and Princeton, or Yale, which had out- • President of the Student Fonnn, alumnigiving. After all the infor- ranked it last year among national then delivered a sp~ech address- mation is gathered, the total scores u:niversities. Looking at Unio~' s · ing his own outlook for the year are calculated. The fmal scores are rank from previous years does not to come. rescaled. The top school is as- really give any sense of whether He refused to associate the sig11ed a value oflOO. the school is falling behind or im- comingofthenew milleniumwith All the other scores are calcu- })roving. the upcoming year and concl11ded lated in proportion to that top Because of the changes in meth- ' that the upcoming year would be score. Schools are placed into ods from year to year and the fact · special because of the students, groups developed by the Carnegie that no ranking system can take into and not because of the chronol- Foundation fot the Advancement a(!count the intangible qualities of · ogy. The next portion of the Convo- cation ceremony concentrated on recognition of exceptional stu- dents and professors. Professor Bonney MacDonald received the Stillman Prize for Ex- cellence in TeachiF.tg as presented by Dean Christina Sorum, the Acting Vice President for Aca- demic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty. Dem Sorum also delivered her remarks concerning those stu- dents who earned Dean's List recognition in the past year andi asked them to stand and receive their recognition. The following award was specifically for those first year students who had achieved excellence in the genera]; education program. Associate Professor David Hemmendinger presented this award to Julia Naftulio '02. This year Maureen Farrell '02 also earned an honorable mention award. Following this presentation Anastasie Prokhorova '01 per- formed Arabesque by Claude Debussy as a musical addition to the program. Following this magnificent pi- ano performance, President Roger H. Hull delivered his address titled \Courage ofOne's Conviction.\ President Hull's speech defi- nitelysupported certain opinions about controversial issues on cam- pus. He praised the college for the ten million dollar renovation project centered on Seward A venue. It was described as an effort \to rehabilitate the neighborhood imme- diately to the west of campus be- cause we are convinced it is right for .the college and the city,\ Presi- dentHulL It was right for 11ie students who now live there, and it was right for the advancement of the college. Many, however, questioned the in- tegrity of the neighborhood now that Union College is the primary landholder in the neighborhood. President Hull mentioned many more projects that were less con- troversial and equa:lly as beneficial to the college. For example, the renovation ofSchaffer Library and the construction of the F.W. Olin Center. Perhaps a clarification should have been made in addition to the use of the word conviction. One can have the courage of their con- viction to benefit the community as a whole. Others may use that same courage to advance their own inter- ests. One must be careful in their choice of which 'courage' they will use. Finally the ceremony was brought to a close as all ofthose in attendance rose and joined one an- other in singing Ode to Old Union. of Teaching. A \national univer- a school, the US News list often The audience greeted this out- sity\ is a school that offers a full :meets with much controversy, es- look with an uproar of applause range of undergraduate, masters, pecially from the schools being and many were thankful for the and Ph.D. degrees and puts an ranked. Regardless of any ques- · fresh outiookthatWinnprovided. emphasis on faculty research. ''Na- ti.ons about the validity of such a tionalliberal arts colleges,\ which ranking system, there is no doubt ~~:::::;::::::::~=:::::::===============================~ Union is one of, focus ahnost com- that many High School students pletely on undergraduate programs use this as a contributing factor and a;wa;td at least AQ percent of . , chposing a c.ollege or university. their degrees in the liberal arts.. Union College's owu :;ltrengths There are also \regional liberal do not show in this ranking. A list arts schools\ which f.ocus on un- of figures cannot describe to a po- dergraduate education, but are telltial student the atmosphere, generally less s~lective and award people, and environment of the less than 40 percent of their de- campus and classes here. - ~, ... _ \<~ -- - :: , ... ,~ grees in the liberal arts. The pur- US News and World Reports poses of the schools in each cat- ranking cannot ever take the place egory are different and as such oftours or overnight visits, just as each category are rated separately. admissions cannot tell the true Looking for a job on campus? Union College is oneofthe 160 value of a student by looking at national liberal arts colleges. Af-. SAT scores alone. Sorum~ Named Acting Dean .•. continued from page 1 replace CooL Brown credited Hull with \following the proper proce- dure,\ citing the fact that Hull also contacted Professor Tom Werner, senior faculty trustee member. Cool has tenure and cannot be released from the college. Hull immediately ch<lse Sorum to fill Cool's vacated position. There will be a search to select a perma- nent replacement for Cool. It is not known at this time whether Sorum will seek the position on a perma- nent basis. During Sorum's ab- sence, George Butterstein is the Acting Dean of Arts and Sciences. Butterstein had the same position under, a different name, Acting Associate Dean of Academic Af- fairs, in 1989 and 1990. Cool firstcame to Union College to be Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty in July 1994. Before she came to Union, she served in the same ca- pacity at Marist College in Poughkeepsie from 1987 to.l99~ when she came to Union. When asked about her future plans for her year ofleave, she ex- p lained that she received a grant oJl very short notice from the Mellon Foundation. She will be studying the habits of senior fac- ulty pre- and post-retlremeht at n11merous liberal arts colleges throughout the country. Also, as a result of her administtati ve role both here and at Marist College, she has not taught full time in the classroom in over twelve years and is working with the Anthropology Department to revamp and -refresh her classes for a possible return next fall At this point, she is unde- cided about a return to Union Col- lege for a full time position in the faculty. According to Cool, on one hand she \does not see a full time posi- ti<Jn with the faculty a step down and would be thrilled to be a mem- ber of the Union faculty\ and is \looking forward to working with students.\ On the other hand, Cool explained that she enjoyed the ad- , 111inistrative duties that came along with her. job, and, as a result, is seeking another position at other colleges, Like to tr;tlk on the phone?

Page 4 • September 16, 1999 • Cllorundrie:tt£'1b3 C~tmpus News Student Injured on Wendell Ave. Union Wins Award.s byJimDeWan News Editor The first incident of on-campus violence occurred in the early hours of Satarday, September 4 when Andy Markowski '()0 was escort- ing two Union students to their room atHick0k House. When Markowski and the stu- dents passed Memorial and Old Chapels, they were approached by four non-Union students imperson- ating Union students, attempting to find out if there were any on-cam- pus parties. Markowski quickly told them to leave them alone, and they kept walking towards Hickok House. The four men followed them up campus until Markowski reached the parking lot of Hickok House. At that point, he assumed he was in a safe, well lit area in the Hickok House parking lot and sat down. That was when the four men at- tacked Markowski in retribution for his previous comments. At that time, numerous calls were placed to Campus Safety by residents of Hickok House, which houses the Gamma Phi Beta &orority. Bef()re security arrived on the scene, however, two Union stu- dents, Peter Me!it() '00 and Brian Gould '0 I tried to break up the fight and prevent the men from attack- ing Markowski. During that period of time, Cam- pus Safety arrived {)ll the scene in a van with flashing lights. As are- SQ]t, Melito believes, the attackers SJ>l'it up into two groups. After that, Melito, Gould, and one of the officers on the scene pursued one gmup of the attack- ers on foot. There was a conver- scttion between Melito and a Cam- pus Safety officer, Joseph Glasser. Melito's accountofthe conversa- tion differs from G Iasser' s account ofthe conversation. Melito claims that Glasser in- saucted Melito and Gould to \go one way, he would go another, and tluy could cut himoff.\ Accord- il1g to Dire.ctor of Campus Safety Bill Sickinger, Glasser denies so- liciting the assistance of the stu, dents, but, by his own account, did not tell Melito and Gould to cease tll.e chase. Melito and Gould continued chase continned off campus up Ihuglas Avenue. They then tamed the comer onto Wendell A.venue. As soon as Melito turned tlu corner, one ofMarkowski's at- ta.ckers, Loren Brady, used a rock t()punch Melito\s left eye, knock- ing him 011t. Melito required stitches in three different places ar()und his left eye. After he attacked Melito, Brady :fledonfoot. HefledontoParkAv- el'lue, where he was tackled by a Campus Safety {)fficer and Jason Flasca '00. He was then appre- hended by the Sc4,enectady Police Department and charged with as- saalt. The other three attackers escaped. When Nicholas Lee, one of the other three attackers, retur11ed: . home, he called the Schenectady- Police Department, and inforr:ne~ · them he had been attacked on the Two National Organizations Rt!cognize and Award College Union College campus. They told him to come dovrnt() the station. When he arrived., be was immediately identified by Markowski andaCampus Safetr officer as one ofthe attackers. lee was then charged with assllult~ along withBrady. Sickinger's primary concern vras Melito and Gould's active pal'tici- pation in the pursuit of the a1tac1<.- ers. Sickinger's biggest feanv;as . the potential liability issues the college faces when stud.ents. ·Ji.e,_ come active participants. Union College will be payirng Melito's outstanding medicall:li!lls because, according to Sick:in..ger, by BridgetFallon Contributing Writer Th~ College was recognized by two national organizations re- cently. The American Soc::iety of Landscape Architects (ASLA) awarded Union with one of its Cen- tennial Medallion Awards. The society recognized 362land- marks for preserving the scenic beauty of the UnitedStates. Union was the only college campus to be recognized inN ew York State and ()ne o'f on~y 22 across the country. Spokesperson Bill SchwaiZ com- mented that: \there is great pdde ~estedin Union's two hundred and \It's the right thing to do.\ five year old campus and despite Sickinger continued that tile th.e college's growth.andexpansion conflict between Melito's accoumt through the years, the campuses and the officer's account was \an beauty has never been compro- error of commun:ication, proba!Jly mised:\ 90% of the fault of my offic::er.'' Other campuses recognized were Sickinger stressed that stu.d;ents :Berkeley, Stanford, Duke, arid the should only become passive:ly University of North Carolina at active, by doing things like ale:rt- .Chapel Hill. Some non-college at- ing security. tractions included Disneyland, the \I hope my officers do no£ ·~e1 U.S. Capitol grounds, and New involved in a situation like this . • York's Central Park. again,\ he continued. Fred Alford, Dean of Stu<len:.t&, has spoken with Sickinger cO>n- cerning his officers' behavior aild liability issues. All of the Uni()n • College Campus Safety offi:cers · will \be re-educated regarding liallil- ity issues. The Best College for You, a co- . publicationofTime Magazine and • The Princeton Review, credited Union with an honorable mention for its social outreach efforts. The publication cited President Roger Hull and trustee Neil Golub for their efforts in establishing Schenectady 2()00. Bill Schwarz. said\'Recogniti()n such as this will serve the college well for admissions.\ Clearly, tec0ognition at this na- tional level is llen~ficial to the Col- lege. Union's efforts to iplptove the community V~hich surrounds its campus boosts the image ofthe College while ~ticling the people of Schenectady. Union was one of 11 colleges nationwide and th.e <lnly institution inN ew Y orlc t<> be commended on its outreach programs. The Uni- versity of Southern California was named College . .()fthe Year. Lastly, one '<> f the largest search engines on the W9rldWide Web, HotBot, releasedits \HotBotPopu- larity Ranki:ng.\Uni()n was ranked third among the nation's most searched for cd1ege sites. To make the list people had to have searched for Unioflhy name. Bill Schwar.zrerm.rked, \rankings come and go but that this is a sig- nificant one f<>r the college .. .it shows that students across the country are interested in the eff()rts that only a few select schools are making.\ Top honors'\Veregiven to Trin- ity College in C()llD.ecticutfollowed by Smith College in Massachn- setts. According tc Webmaster· Saul Morse, the College ilas had 7 5 mil- lionhits this year wllich more than doubles last ye:ar's total. Upperclassmen Students Move Into Renovated Houses on Seward by Erin Connolly Staff Writer The last of the cardboard boxes of moving in day will fmally be able to be recycled on 'Thursday, Sep- tember 16 when the last of the Seward apartments.promised for fall term will be completed. It was intended that there be a total of 11 Seward apartments filled at the start of fal1 term. When the gates of Union opened all but two were C()mpleted. One of the two apartments was finished the follow- ing Saturday. Residence Life has been working closely with the l2steight students who are still wiihout permanent housing due to the unforeseen de- lays in construction. Those apartments that were fin- ished some still found to be not quite what they had expected. One Elizabeth Daiglei'J1C All ofthe houses on Seward Place will be ready by January, st11dent now living off Seward c.,mmented ••T!J.e house is beauti- ful on the inside, but there are no screens.·in th~ windows and lad- duson the building.\ The state of this apartment raises safety issues for those living there. September 16 is by no meatLS·the end of construction on Sev.?all'd. The revitalization ofSewardisfa.r from complete. The dumpster na:y change locations bat the contrac:-. [t:IJ [~l ~l = tors will still be apart of Union's campus. Yet, all of th()se living on and around Seward don't have to worry about sleepless nights due to the construction. According to Tim Noonan, the d:irector ofResidence Life, \work will not begi11 until8:00 AM and will end at 6:00PM each day. This work is being done with the g()al of having houses ready for stu- d-ents to move in during later terms. There is ILO set day of open at this point because we do not know how winter is going to ef- fect the construction.\ · Greater of am()unt of talk and in- trigue surrounds another housing issue on campus. This would be the losS' of all rights to Fero House by Alpha Delta Ph.i. Upon inspecti()n ofthe fraternity, severe damage was noted to the former Alpha Delta Phi chapter house located. acnss the street from adrnissicns. Also on insJ>ection in the upper levels of the ho11se illegal drugs and drug p ara:pbernalia were found. Alpha Delta Phi was brought up on conduct charges. The committee made the decision to strip the frate1nity of their holls- ing rights fortvtoyears. Those st11dents that did not have housihg at the start of the year are now occupying Fero House. \It was D()t meant to be single sex, but at the morne!lt it is all male,\ Tim Noonan n<>ted. There are cunently five doubles, two singles and one Resident As- sistant in Fero Rouse. The fo1111er Alpha :Oelta Plli cllapter house is not being usetl by Residence Life as housing b~ca\lse renovations are taking plac.e in order to change the building int<J an Admissions facility. '\\'\h..~ p <>ck.et l::H::> c::> k. £ te~ ::l.:i.:JI:\'kg d..r.a..:i.-=-~ d. ~c:»w t;h..a. t y«>\'.:L h.a.\V\'~ b<>-..:a..ght tha.t -e:x:poe::rks:i..-v-oe peyc:h..c:>::l.e>gy- b<>c:>k.? SpoeXll.t a.II e>£ yCJt-ct.r Irll.c:>:r-..ey c:>Xll. b::l.~~ -...:a.p £'11.J1.::r:ra.it11..11.roe t:l::1l..a.t: ye>-:t..:a.:r :r<> c:>:nnt:a:nua:t:oe pc:»p-p ~d. <JIIo.._ :lf:i.:rst :rL:i.gh.t? ....A...11 c:::.t.£ th..a..t s-..:a:X::I':1:Jl'il0...e:r j c:>b e.a.:1l;'\'rll.:i..r.g I.c:>st ce-1ebr.a.:t::ira.g th.e rt..e\W' s c ..._c:»<>I ye .a.:a'\'? ···-·- .... - -~-- •. -~ .. - .... ~ .. ~--- .. ·-·-~ --·-··-- -~~ '~ -· -•o. '' i Ca - Old Me1 Abs Apt ()fti -9/l 9/U mal ~ad( sam Cia: boa WOJ Cot Am Mo . I

L [I f: !' II Campus News :Student Forum Minute·s OldChapel, Wednesday~Sept~mber 8,. 1999 Meeting to Order: <i:30PM Absent; None (all! 21 present) Approval of Minutes: Non~ to be approved Officer Reports: VP of Administration (W~afer) -conurlittees need some refurbishing; plans for upcoming ooeet- • ing with. Dean Alford regaxding U2K VP of Finance (ltoa¢1te) -none VP ofCampusLife(Stewart-Stand) \9/1 0: back-to-schoal barbecue; 9/l6: Samples concert; 9/17: hypnd:ist; • 9/18: professional' Shakespeareimpromptutheatte production, Fall F<lr- • mal(9PM-1AM) VP ofACC (Slevinsld:) -,add/drop classes: allowed within frrst two weeks of term; pass)fail: • same as add/drop classes; students able· to declare two minors VP ofMulticulturalAffairs (Peliish) -multiculturalfestival in spring 2000 Trustee (Markowski) -October 22rneetingwith trustees; DeanSoli.U11 taking over for · Dea!lCool IFC(McK.inney) -none PanHel(O'Keefe) ~none TIIC (Sullivan) -none Class of20QO{De Vito) -none Class of2001 (Schuler) -none Class of2002 (Wittelcind) -none Old Business: none New Business: -Middle States review coming up: college must present itselfto board for collegiate approval -Forum Office: plans for revamping of office in 4 floor in R.CC -Concert committee: tickets left fotSample.s concert -Finance committee: club presidents/treasurers must attend workshop in order to receive funding Committee Reports: forl!rn retreat to Camp Cb.ingegook Announcements: none Motion to Aqjou:rn: second; meeting adjourned at 7:00PM MARINE STUDIES T:ERM ABROAD Berm·uda Newfoundland Woods Hole SPRIN.·G TERM APPLICAT·ION·S DU'E FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 24 : lnter.nation~l Programs Office Humanities Buildln.g Because your glasses are an accessory you V\lear every day. 1• 800 • EYES • 789 .ftiF store locatJo11 nl!arest .Jim' \1i,'\VW .slerlingoptiGtl.com I I I I I I I I __ .J r UNION iff Annual-Giving POSITIONS AVAILABLE NOW! *We pay $5.75/hour * Networting Opportunities * ResumeBuHder *Way to help Union *Lots of $$Bonuses +Snacks ltiW Stop·by tAt Annual Fund Offrce(North Col011nade) or the CDCjor an application. Quesdons-call x617 4

Page 6 · September 16, 1999 . Who Cares? After the passing of another summer we lla:ve all taken one more st(lp towards adulthood and the end ofour college career. For many of us, the · adventures that this year will bring are the last ofthose tha1 we will have within the walls of a. classroom. Oihers still have the opportunity to enjoy and benefit from their years. at Union College. As always, the school year began with im111merable amounts of cam .. pus-wide voicemails and posters announcing meeting times for the mul- titude ofclubs and organizations that are offered .at the College. Upon attending those meetings it Was not uncommon to see the same faces as one would encounter at many of the other meetings on campus. At a school of more than 2100 students it is s111prising that so many ofthe clubs and organizations are staffed by sucll.a small amount of the stu- dent population. Concordiensis pondered this question a!ld realized tllat the lack of participation stems from the overwhelming majority of students who never engage in extracurricular activities. This behavior can be classi- fied as apathy, which is \absence or lack of interest or concern; listless~ ness and indifference,\ as defined by Webster's Third New Interna- tional Dictionary. Unfortunately, this defi11i.tion ~:~.pplies to the majority of the student body at Union College. Becoming involved in activities on campus provides inl;tumerable ben- efits. For example, members have the opp()rtunity to become acquainted with students outside of their social circles. In addition to the friend- ships that are made, valuable communication skills, as well as organiza- tional techniques, are learned. By incorporating meetings and activities into one's daily schedule time management and the importance pfcom- mitrnent are learned. Furthermore, the club to which stu.dents opt to contribute betters the College community and, in many ins1ances, the surrounding city of Schenectady. Participating in activities outside of one •s classmom responsibilities would most certainly enrich the college experience. The fraction of students who become involved at UnionCollege change this instituition for the better. By stretchin~ themselves to the limits and relinquishing their free time, these stude11ts perform selfless acts ofgiv- ing back to the College and the community. They are continually attend- ing meetings, running ~orkshops and o:rganizing ca.nlpus events. In addition to the numerous clubs to whicll they contribu.te, these dedi- cated students also extend their efforts to the classroom environment, fostering an atmosphere in which learning, is facilitated because of their vocal contributions. The aforementioned students spend the majority of their time improv- ing the campus for the greater good of the entire student population. Because of their energy and dedication Union College is an improved institution, both from an educational and social standpoint For their dedication to their commitments, we C()mtnend them and urge them to continue their efforts. In addition, Concordiensis hopes that all students will take it upon themselves to become more involved in 'the campus community. Follow the example set by those who devote tlleir time to improving Union College. Everyone will benefit from the few hours that you dedicate to the activity. This message is especially <lirected at the Class of 2003 because they have the greatest amount of time left at Union. We hope that you will not succumb to the apathetic :rou.tines that chuacterize so many members of this student body but, ins1ead, that you will rise above and prove to yo\ir predecessors that apathy is going out of style. BMB Letter Policy & Disclaimer Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OPIED page and must be received by 5 PM theM()nday beforep11blication. Letters must be less than 500 words md should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final decisions concerning printing md!oreditingasubmission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed and saved on a high density disk, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opini()n t>fthe Editorial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of am~ority of the Editorial. Board, and of no one member in particular. Any opinion columns or cartoons reflect the opinions of the writers or artists, and not necessarily the opinions oftlte Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinions ofthe Editorial Board. Concordiensis is printed by World Media, ll ()4 Central Avenue, Albany, NY, 12205. . ' OP/ED Important Information for Freshmen · . · · · ·· count. If you w1sh to open an ac- H1s name 1s FRED and he ~s ex- by Lis Kidder count with Fleet, their business tremely friendly. And here • s a little Opinio 71 s Editor hours are from.9:00 AM to 10:00 insider gossip; he's got a thing T remember when I was an incom- ing Freshman, wide-eyed and ex. cited about the yeats to come at Union. Those first few weeks were fullofbumps a11drough spots, but I managed to survive thanks to the advice ofolder, more experienced students. So n()W, my Freshmen friends, I pass tl:J.is knowledge on to you. You will need to open a check- ing account in the area, so as to give Telecoillill.unications your en- tire work-study salary in an attempt topay at least halfyou.r phone bill. The -closest bank t() ·campus is Fleet, and it is recommended that you choose th.ein, because any otherbank requires you to venture off into Schenectady City-of-Sin on foot (since y<>u ue not allowed to have cars) a:n.d you will most likely be shot in a drive-by-shoot- ing. Luckily, Fleet has a special ''student account\ in which they si:eal seven dollars a month from you, for no monthly fee. They do not, however, rob y()u during the summer, because during the months of Ju.ne, July and August they are busy closing your ac- AM on Thursdays. going with the green campus-ops Therewill inev,jtablybea time in mobile. Word has it that the col- which you find yourself far away lege is hoping that they'll get to- frornyourdonnatanobscenelylate gether and breed. It's the perfect hour of the night (perhaps you were solution to the escort problem ~ studying at the library or attend- lots oflittle golf carts driving stu- ing an alcohol-free party at a fra... dents home late at night. ternity) with no way to return home You may have noticed the physi- excepttowalk.Luckily,Unionhas cal plant truck with the \Jason instituted a \Trolley system,\ to mask\ strapped to the front grill. I bring you home late at night. Per- justnoticedittoday andfeltasense haps you. received one ofthe blue ofretiefwash over me as I realized \Shuttle Schedules\ in your mail th.at the people who have keys to box.. Those were distributed so that every donn room on this campus any members of the college who idolize a homicidal maniac. also happened to be murderers It's not cool to attach your lceys would have aschedule marking 20- to the Union lanyard that they hand minute intervals in whichthey will out to all the freshmen, and then be able to stab unsuspecting stu- wear them around your neck, dents waiting for a ride. If you see flipped around so they're hanging any ef these crimes occurring, down your back, or h.anging ()Ut of make sure you don't call x6911, your pocket People have been because they won't answer the killed for this offense. phone (it took tbePI seven rings to Voice mail is designed to drive pick up when I tried the number you closer to the edge of insanity. t<>day). You will notice that you receive at It's not cool to hook up with six leasttwelvejunlcvoicemailsaday. boys from the same fraternity Luckily, anangelfromHeavensent house. \3-3-7\ to Union students. This is There is a roving golf cart filled the most important thing you will with food from Dutch that can be learn in your entire career at Union seen frequently around campus. College. A No Bullpucky P~intofView -------- ...... ----- justisn'tresponstble for the shrink- ees IS the money machine that runs by.JonTapper ing Greek System on this campus. this campus. So stop StaffWriter Neither is President Hull for that bullpuckeying the students. I promised last year that I would no longer discuss the Greek Sys- tem in my colUIIIIl. Well, it's aNew Yeatandpromises are meantto bro- ken. I figured that I would throw my point of view into the mess that is fast becoming the Greek scene on this campus. The only differ- ence is that I :ilitend to be mature in my arguments this year. Instead of insulting everyone involved, I am going to look at tbis from a rto butlpucky point of view. And it goes like this. Am I Greek? Yes. Do 1 support the Greek Sysi:em on this. campus? 110%. I feel that the Greek System has a lot to offer this campus. So that's not the issue. All I'm asking for, nay demanding, is a little bit of hon- esty from this.college and whoever the heck wilt admit to being in charge. In re-reading some of my past articles this summer, I may have directed far too much of the criticism towards Dean Alford. L:ike him or hate him, 1 realized that he matter. So I challenge who I think So here is my fmal proposal. If is in charge to lJe honest with the you .have no intention of keeping students and stop hiding behind the Greek System in the \master your two puppets. I am of course plan,\ shut it down at the end of refening to the ~card ofTrustees. this year. But i£\ you truly want to I don't know what your agenda help Greeks survive, you 'regoing is. Bu.tfromwhat'sbeengPingon to have to do a hell of a lot better the last couple of years, I'm willing than your doing right now. And I to bet your entire endowment that cannot stress the importance of it's the abolition of the Greek Sys- honesty enough. tern. If that's truly what you intend . If the Board of Trustees can't to do, that'syour decision. You're he honest with its students, if the in charge, do what you feel is best students can't trust the Deans and for the college and its future. All I the President of this college, that aslc is that you be honest with us. lack of honesty will do far more There are quite a few Greeks on this dinn.age to the school's p:recious campus that have invested a lot of little reputation than the Greek Sys- valuable tiille, effort, and money temcaneverdo. Foronce, try look- into ensuring 1he survival of the ing at all the positives that the Greek System on the Ullion Cam- Greeks do for this campus,.andnow pus well into the next century. :iinagine the campus without those If that isiJ' t in the plans, if there positives. You Will see that Greeks is no way in hell that the Greek . built this campus and this campus System caiJ survive on this cam- will die without Greeks. Sothe de- pus~ tell us. Don't have Alford and cision is yours; all I ask is tbat it be Hull telling us that the ball is in our made promptly, honestly, and with- court when it really isn't. Every- ou.t all ofthe usual administrative one knows that the Board ofTrust- bu11pucky.

OP /ED <!J:n:tttnrlrien!li~ • September 16, 1999 • Pagei' lo~~3~1cC~~·~~~~awM~~~~~~~~·~•·~•7~\ What I Did On My Summer Vacation by Mal'cus Eure StudentMin-Sptr:it · The summerwas goQd tom~, for the most part, but no one cares about good sUitllllers. Yo11 want blood and death and car Wrecks, and that's good; because I have that, too. Exceptfor the blood and death part. But there was a car this Stll1llller, and 1 did manage to de- stroyhalfofit while inPennsylva- llia, My girlfriend and I had been in the car for about45 hours straight when we got on the Pennsylvania 'Turnpike, but I was still verymuch £apable of driviJlg. She likes to IJelieve that \hallucmatio!ls\ and .. 'crying fits\ equals a need to switch drivers, but it was really just a little jealousy because abouthow much better I am. behind the wheel 1than she is. For instance,.at one point it be- llins to flood. Fish swim by and a Jittle guy in an ark shows up (and if they're \hallucinations how ()Orne I see them,. huh?), but it's 'barely noticeable to someone as .JlOWerfully masculine as me. But :my girlfriend questions whether or Jlot I should pull ov:er until the storm passes. This, oh dear sweet god, is an affr-ont to my stunning ability to drive. When I'm up there in a state of manly serenity, singing ~ little Broadway here and there, it's ulap in the face tQ ask me if I want to pullover because ofa little torren- tial downpour and the fact that I keep .swerving into the other lane because I have to emote with my hands while singing, because it's not just about your voice, you know, you have to make your body wol'k, too, .So I turn to my girlfriend to tell her about this insult to my manli- ness and promptly crash into the guard rail. At 70 miles an hour. On a turnpike in the pouring rain. Anyway, there are two versions ofwhathappened. There's the real one, and the one my girlfriend tells. In her jealousy of my incredible chiving talent, she's added a few details here and there, making her account what I refer to as a \goddamn fat lie.\ In her story, I spun out into the guard rail over andover again while pouring forth. so much obscene language that the car stopped spinning just out ,of fear; which is better than saying I cried like Nancy Kerrigan, I guess, although she pretends that hap- pened, too. The real version went some- thing like this: as soon as I realized that unbelievably bad luck had caused the car to lose traction, I calmly released thegas and steered it to a gentle stop, bumping ever so slightly the corners against the guard rail. Then, seeing my girl- friend wasoverwhelrnedby fear, I consoled and comforted her Qlltil the police arrived. When I got out of the car to talk to the policeman, he commended my ability to drive and remarked how amazing my sheer masculin- ity was, which I of course thought was very flattering but awfully crude to say in front of my still hysterical girlfriend. Obviously, nothing was wrong, because I was allowed to simply drive the car away. There was the small prob~ lem of being unable to close the hatch in the back, and of having no taillights, and of being unable to make left turns, but nothing much else. Except for the leaking gas tank. The rest of the drive went very well. My girlfriend drove, but it wasn't because I spent the next day and a half sobbing in a fetal position and trying to fmd a happy place, oh no. I simply realized that being a man sometimes means allowing your girlfriend to drive a few miles. It also gives you room to concentrate on your singing, which is the only way I can hit all the high notes for the girls' parts. Election 2000: More of the Same ~y MichaelS. McGuire Copy Editor Of late, most likely due to my newfound right to vote, I have become increasingly interested in presidential politics. I know, I know, to some extent every American is interested in presidential politics. But I don't believe that every American is interested enough. Let's recap the remaining players in next year's election: George Bush: His only claim to fame is that his daddy was presi- dent. The American public has taken to him ea:rly on, so the Re• publican Party has prematUrely decided to throw its support be- hindhitn, albeit informally. GoverM nor Bush has not yet taken a stand on anything except Education which, I might point out, is for the states to contml (shall I begin to argue against the ne.ed for a Fed- eral DepartmentofEducation? Per- haps another time.) Steve Forbes: He's rich. He's a religious fanatic. He wants to elimi- nate the woman's right to choose. Oh, yeah, and though he has some interesting ideas about taxation, he'd never get anything done be- cause he's stiffer than a dead cat. I should also point out that this seemingly nice mllll is evil. Evil I say! He is responsible for the pa- thetic light in which most Ameri- cans view former Kansas Senator Bob Dole and the endless stream of irrelevant questions that the continue to ask Governor B\lsh about drug use. He has no morals; he is a snake. Elizabeth Dole: She ran the Red Cross. She is the most popular woman ever to run for the presi- dency. She also can't manage to answer the same question the same way twice. Ms. Dole wishes to have gays banned from the Boy Scouts, and feels that school dis- n:icts should have the right to pro- hibit the teaching of evolution from the classroom. AI Gore: I think that there has been enough said about Al Gore. ' (Gore/Bush) n~r did he inherit fi- nanchi! powe:r (Forbes). McCain did not use a famous spouse who served in the Second World War and the United States Senate to gain name recognition (Dole). And he most certainly did not use his status as a former basketball player (Bradley). No, Senator John McCain comes from Navy men. His father was the commander of the U.S. forces in the Pacific during Vietnam. His grandfather com- mandedmuch ofthe U.S. Navy in the Pacific during World War II. The Senator himself even spent and a half years as a prisoner \George Bush: · war in Hanoi. Senator McCain is currently touring his book across the .country. His book, how- ever, is about his life before poli- tics, and stops well short of his time as senator (New York Times, 9-10-1999). McCain is as straight- forvvard as they come. Of course, he will not get elected. His· onf;; clabn to · fanze is that his ·daddy ~vas presi- dent\ To sum it up: He is boring, Do we really want this man to lead us into the new millennium? Bill Bradley: The f011'I1el\ NY Knick and NJ Senator. Shall I comment on the wisdom of electing a man based on hisbasketball career?Oh, they did that already. Where else but in New Jersey. But wait, you say, he was a US Senator. Surely that counts for something. If you can prove he did something, then I'll say, \Wow I guess he really did do SOMETHING.\' . Lost in all of this is Senator John McCain. John McCain did not in- .tterltpJJltllcal po,wer from his father . And so, ladies and gentlemen, we are left with the usual choices for president. The candidates that emerge will most likely once again be moderates, forced to compro- mise so much that it no longer mat- ters who is elected, it is all the same. In 1996 the Chinese bought the presidency; in 1992 it was tyson (no, not the ear nibbler, but the fishstick guys). Who will it be this time? Forbes Magazine, or someone who gains recognition for the work of their fathers and husbands? Maybe we shouldjust vote for former Sena- tor Bradley.After all, we 're.all jeal- ous .of the Garden A Message From Safe Space It was not your fault. It doesn't matter what you said or woreu It does not matter if you were friends with or dating your attacker . It was not you who acted inappropriately. You are not alone. There are people who are willing to help. . It's okay to feel depressed, scared and angry. Just don't give up. Don't give your attacker the satisfaction. Don't let him win. Safe Space knows that rape happens at Union and that's why we are a confidential support group for victims and caring friends. Safe Space is here to listen. Safe Space Beeper: # 1-800-283- 2255 pin: 11349 • O!.o:n.cnr.bi:ensis The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper http://concClrdy.unioo.edu Brooke M. Barylick- David C. Brooks JrG EDITORS-IN-CHIEF Jaime Lapine EXECUTIVE EDITOR , Elisabeth Kidder OPINIONS EDITOR Jim DeWan NEWS EDITOR Rachel Bukowski SPORTS EDITOR · Lori Greene Kimberly Rohback &EEDITORS Kaelyn South 'ROMOTIONAL MANAGER Sloan Miller Aaron Seliger 'HOTO EDITORS Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Sloan Miller SCfENCE & TECH EDITOR Neil Routman WORLD NEWS EDITOR MichaelS. McGuire COPY EDITOR Danielle Devine Amanda Jackson AJ)VERTISEMENT COORDINATORS Eugene Schultz FEATURES EDITOR Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR 'HOTOGRAPHERS: Shannon Conaty, Elizabeth Daigle, Jennifer MacDoweU, Rebecca Walsh. STAFF: Matt Aronowitz, Jeffrey Ausfeld, Steve Ayers, Jessi';a . Brearton, Gina Campanella, Lisa Carbone, Heather Clements, Enn ConnoHy, Mary Felton:,StephenFiaher_t:Y, Pete~ Flynn, ~«Gendron, David Gruner, Courtlley Hayden,Der1c Harrmgton, Mik.e Iger, Clark Jones, Jon Kelson, Stephen Nemeth, Brian Roache, Steve Schuler, Kate Schmidt, Mark Shemel, Adam .. Pa ul Smolak, Ro1-y Stern, Jess Stephens, Lee Stevens, Jon Tapper, Charles Tuthill.

Page 8 • September 16, 199~ • aianr.PThleusis Science ac TechnOclo.gy Science & Technolo The Dangers ofE- Commerce by Jeffrey Ausfeld Staff Writer E -commerce is the latest craze in the Internet community, and ev- ery business wants a piece of the action. But what is e-commerce anyway? Well, put simply, it is products that people can buy over the Internet. This certainly is not a new idea; people have been buy- ing and selling products over the Internet for years it seems as though everybody has an e-mail address, and is surfmg the web like plankton in a hurricane. Many frequent web users have come to the realization that prod~ ucts sell on the Internet for much less than they can be purchased for in normal stores. Now that the Internet is becoming so easy to get hooked up to, even the thriftiest of consumers are making their presence in this virtual market place. There are so many on-line busi- nesses offering so many different kinds of products that just about everything can be bought on-line. Everything from Ante chips for poker to zebra strip car seat cov- ers. In fact it is projected that consumers will spend billions of dollars on products bought over the Internet. However, the dam has yet to break and the reason is simple: some people do not feel safe sending their credit card informa- tion over the Internet. It is that simple. I just happen to be one of those people; I buy prepaid anonymous credit cards for tl:te j L \ sole purpose of Internet business. Yes, a reputable company will provide a secure connection for the transfer of money. These connections are encrypted and there is virtually no risk, but the little voice in the back of your mind creates security doubts over your transaction. It is this doubt th.at is preventing the Internet from be- coming the principle place to sl:top for goods and services. To remedy this situation, many new fonns. of lntemet cash are making their debut for alternative methods of payment. Currently there are several dozen schemes that a:r;e available to make the www.e-storefrollt.com Internet safe for big-time com- merce. Tl:tese systems will also make ordering a lot simpler, and wi:ll open up theN et to new types of transactions. For example, if I want to buy something for only a few dollars, it would be cumbersome to fill out an entire credit card slip. Systems like NetCheque, NetCash, and NetChex that allow for small and ano~ymous transactions are just rolling out. One of the big hit- Just Stop \Worrying· and Love the \'eb by Steve Ayers Staff Writer Computers always seem to be full of surprises, especially when it comes to the Internet. I became Internet literate after my brother came home from his first year at Vassar College with big tales of \surfing the web\ and something called' 'E-mail.\ By the time I gradu- ated, I was setting up my own web pages. However it may be difficult to keep on top of web technology in the future, as new languages like VRML, SGML and XML com- pete to replace HTML as the Internet standard. I first encountered VRML (Virtual Reality Modeling Lan- guage) this summer while W()Ik- ing in a 30 drawing program. This language allows users to create and view 3D documents (referred to as \worlds\). Users navigate through the worlds using a set of controls that resemble a joystick in add-ons are included with Netscape Navigator and Internet Explorer in all versions higher than 4.0. VRML was originally designed by a small group of software de- velopers at a 1994 conference on the Web. In its fitstversion, users could navigate through VRML worlds using a set of controls for spatial navigation, and were able to manipulate objects in the world. Standard HTML features were also included, allowing users to include images, text and links (referred to as \tele-ports\). VRML's latest version, 2.0, is entitled \rnovi11g worlds\ and allows animatio11 of objects and user interaction. Fu- ture versions are already in devel- opment. A more direct challenge t() the HTML standard is posed by XML (eXtensible Markup Language). Though still a textual language, it has th.e advantage of allowing con- tent to be-customized for each docu- ment, making them more similar to documents generated in a word processor. In contrast to the .stan- dard set of \tags\ used HTML, tags can be defmed for each se\)a- rate document. As new standards are intro- duced, we can expect the web to become a more interesting and complex place. In the future, XML would allow users to post C()lllj>li- cated images and text over the web. Virtual Reality chat rooms wuld allow users to interact with other users in a way that is very similar to real life. Users could generate three dimensional images of their families and pets. However, it remains to be seen how widely such standards wiH catch on. Their success depends on the ability and willingness of Internet users to use these compli- cated standards. Navigating through a 30 world can be a con- fusing process, not to mention navigatillg through the VRML lan- guage. Likewise, itis llllCertain that the majority ofintemet users would be willing to wage a half-hour web search just to fmd out what exactly XMLis. Fortunately, there are same so- lutions. The VRML repository, www.web3d.org/vrml/vrml.htm, contains 'Links to VRML brOW$ers, composers and general informa- tion. ViliualFactory,a. VRMLedit- ing program published by Aereal . can be d<lwnloaded from http:// www. virtpark.com/theme/ factinfo.lltrnl Useful information ort XML can be found at the National Consor- tium for Supercomputing Applica- tions, http://www.ncsa.uiuc.edu/ · S DG! So ftw ar elMo s aiel W ebSGML.html. In addition, SoftQu.ad, the same company that manufactures the popular Web page generator HotMetal, is now marketing an XML generating pro- gram called Xmetal. Someday we will tell our grand- children of ''the good old days of the web~\ to which they will respond by asking, \What was the web?\ Though it is uncertain whether any of the standards mentioned above will really catch on, the current HTML standard will not last forever. Perhaps the one certainty in this rapidly changing on-line world is that things will be radically different in five years. ters in this division of E-banking will be First Virtual. Other systems are experimenting with real money. Oigicash and the Mark Twain Bank are now using real money in an e-cashsystem that was tested for a year with virtllal money. It works much like a real bank in the factthat first consumers opens an account at the banlc Then, us- ing the Digicash software, they withdraw e-cash from their ac- counts and store it on their com- puter. Users may spend the e-cash at any virtual storefront willing to accept it. One possible drawback to using this system is once you withdraw your money onto your computer, if you have a bad crash it would be the equivalent ofloos- ing your wallet. I am sme that Oigicash has thought of this prob- lem andperhaps may offer a solu- tion. Someday soon it may be indis- putably safer to shop on-line, with your credit card, than it is to use it in a department sto:re. But if you are the cautious type you may decide to wait like me. Personally, my head is pounding after hours of sloshing through the claims of all these electr()nic payment schemes. Until the FDIC gets involved and a more universal currency is developed, I plan to stay out ()f e- commerce as much as possible. Before you head out ot the concert, visit the Old Chapel· for free samples of food and beverages. Thursday from 3:30 to 6:00

WantA .. . . Challenge? 0 F F I C·E R T R A t N I N G S C H 0 0 L Star1 vour career off on the right root by· enroling in the Air Force Officer Training Schoof. There you will become ·a< oommissiuned office:r in Just 12 weeks. From the start yotlll e'flljoy gre~t pay. complete medical and dental care, 3Qdays of vacation each year. plus the, opl)ortuni~y to tl'ave.l and see the world. To discover how high ·:--> a care.er io the Air Fore~ cat~ take- you~ can 1-800-423,..USAF. or visit our website at www.airforce.com ' TOiiAY: 4:30p:JID. -~~ Prc>r. Terry Weiner, :SS 1:1:0 ''PJ:·e-L· .a.w Meeting fqr Freslunen\ - ... TC:tNl:Q-liT': ,.116 • 5p~~n·6:15p~n at tbe CDC (3..._ 0. Olttl Claapel) Mcctinf!: for gra<iuating mast:e:r's d~gree· ;st~aus T:;.~~~J~~~;~~'/1;! .. ; 6~·;;• 7p11D, RCC Au~. ,,,.. FR.QM THE R.EC:R..Ul'TERS' PERSPECTJ:VE,..,- inte..v•..ewing. workshop with alumni re<:r~itc!'>S. R~qu#\ed for seniors as part of the ~ecruiting Ce~ntract; attcpdanee qualiEics ~>eni~s f<>r u11QCk; -iflter ..... i~ws. Jl\u.bli.!ibii~i.Jt\ 'lnte~htp----'Delmar Publi~hers,j;s offering a paid, part-time II iTI.tenilSb:h> tQ a-junior or se:nior inc:~ted in the field of pubJishing. Subrnit. ll're!su:n:~e and: cover letter to the CDC by 5PM Mouday. Septea:nber 20. For more l.:nt'o. see tlie :R.ecru.iting Binders in the CDC t ... lbrary. 9!2Z: 7pDD,. Everest LA;>ungc lKa~pJa,n In'i'o,~at.iqn Seminar to announce prnctic:e •=t: dates 9!23: 10a.xD~·3pm, cc A•ll:\iu.mt Residential Opportunities/Center 'for the DiasabJed part~li~ne positions 9123: 4::3~prn at the CDC ~'Applyimg tO Lnvv S.::hoolu - Int\onnation f<>r Juniors and SO't\iors Extended Drop-In Hours for quick resume fe<dback at the CDC; 1-Sp:nn. M-F, through ~/'2~- The Career Festival is corning! Save the date- September 30tb! 1ue11tn lJGur t_,irst ta c\annel-surr InstallatiGf1 Just \ .1 \1 I(\ . :\i-\fpl• . I .. . • . ... ' Get 1t ol your nearest bookstore or vi~1t· 16, 1999 • www ,, W() If ram. com I st uden1/ warp tlere's tile deal: 1. O'ver 65 <.han.nels of quahty ,pro-gramming - including an your l~cal broodcast channels! 2 .. 4 .. for·1 i>remium Channel $pedal featuring HBO The Works {HBO. ti;BO PillS, HSO Signature) and Cir.ema~ - all for the price of HlSO alor~e! 3.. fREE 2~ Cable Hook-up ~-Access tc 6 Scr~ens of Pay-Per·View ,5. (;()rwerter and Remote Control b ... lO·day Money Back Guarante~t <.all now and quench your thirst for cable. 1-800-800-1:1\RLE ~ ';i/;>1; ~ 1'-.a.:•· -!;I:M 01!1\,. ~ '1111'<-:..b~ \~ ~ f~ ~'Zl'~ ~iil1#' ~ ~~ ~ !!'tl1!'-ti$!t. a:oo, ~ -~~ ~., II\'~~~~'~~ 1\\1;1 B'tt'\' t~ r>' lt't t<~ V'l'f ~ ...... :~ : .... \l\':'i \·- t~'l; ~ ·' •'• 1 :u;J~ ~t<>~':Mlf!G•'Il!w•~~~ ;:t·~~ ~::I~~~I,Jil(10fh .t~O'•' ft~(tijli'til!~'i$~il~~ 3-{~l\'f.lr\1'1:.4-\lil''# ·~-rt • ..,.,..,IJ!'[illl\':> ~·,;wtl'<:'b;~·· ..::t.~~ • :,..>;~\' ,.,._..~ •r..ro':l') -......,.. •n ,.,:,.·· !!; :l .. 'r,.jll f.;lliK ~'II~ l~~\i$ ;1.1(

Page 10 September 16, 1999 Kronholm Shines for Coffeehouse Opening by .Kimberly.Rohback A&E Editor Last Tuesday marked the fi~:st official Coffeehouse of the year. Following convocation students strolled up to the Coffeehouse to enjoy the musical styling5. of Martha Kronholm '01 playingher own set of songs and Michael Capraro '0 1 accompanied 1Jy a group offellow student-musicia.ns. Kronholm was slightly appre;hen- sive about performing after he:rsix.- month guitar hiatus, but she played beautifully. Her songs have a mel- low folk quality and the aadiemce was extremely impressed b:y 1he dexterity with which she play-ed. Michael Capraro, Ian White, and Roger Noyes are no strangers to the Coffeehouse stage. The::y put on q).lite a show at the last rninute. They covered songs ranging from Phish to Pearl Jam. Between the four guitarists and Capraro'srne- lodious .. piper\ vocals the matke~ shift band created quite a sC>umd. Despite the hot and m11ggy weather, students enjoyed each other's company over cups ofcof- fee and tea. The new members of this year's Coffeehouse served up mocha-chines and hot chocolate like the professionals down at Starbucks. The actual room looked stunning, thanks to last year's cof- fee-senior of the year, Brian Granola~berg, and his roommates for their generous couch donation. If anyone else is interested in d<J- nating their used and unwanted furniture to the Coffeehouse it would be greatly appreciated. During the performance, Ceffee- house president Michael Capraro made a plea to $e audience for ideas about possible methods of fund-raising for a new amp. The Coffeehouse has an old one that many of the performers find inad- equate. It has been lent out for all kinds of occasions for the past three years and age has not been kind. This equipment, as Capraro in- formed the crowd, is rather expen- sive. If anyone has any sugges- tions for ways that the Coffee- house could finance such a pur- chase, all suggestions are welcome at the next Coffeehouse meeting on Sunday night. Brooke Zeigerman, the newly elected house manager, promises that this will be a year full of new ideas in the pursuit of \something to do\ on Tuesday nights. \I want to try to get as many new faces otf stage and asmany ambitious minds as possible to work on this project that started five years ago. Back in 1996, the Coffeehouse was a mere twinkle in the eye of a youngGranola-berg. Well it's time for the class of 2003 to enjoy it.\ She and Capraro hope to host a variety of different Coffeehm,1se. sponsored events throl!ghout the year. The Coffeehouse is looking for any and all talent for the ~p­ coming term. If you play guitar, the accordion, or read poetry and juggle, there is a stage for you. No performance is too big or too small. Actors, writers~ singers, mu- sicians, dancers, and acrobats._. there is always a space foryouand audience to adore. For more infor- mation about joining the coffee- crew or performing, please contact Brooke Zeigerman at X 5810. Kimberly Rob back TfC. Martha Kronholmpractices for this terms debut. The Arts at Union Are Here For ''u~·, by Lori Greene A&E Editor Being a biology major h.oping to go to medical school does not excuse you from taking an active part in the arts at Union. Thereare many ways you can pursue inter- ests in the performing artsbne at many levels of activity. Wltether you want to join a club, take ~!Class or get private lessons, Union lias a wide array of offerings. Practica is the term used by the Performing Arts DepartirJellt at Union College to describe ll~n<ls~ on experiences in music, tlleater, and dance. Students may elect to participate in Performing Arts Practica classes, which ttJa y be taken for their own enrichment or for course credit. Course credit isavailablefoipar- ticipation in orchestra, cht>:ir, jazz ensemble, and individual les:sons. One-third credit is gained each tennf<Jr a ma:xitnum of tw() fUll cred- its counting towards grad11ation. Students who elect to partlc;ipate in the practica program foi credit must also complete a full credit music course either prior tt> 01: con- current with the practictJm and must register each tertn -.wit!J. both the registrar and the appr:o))riate faculty member. The Union College Orcll:estra, conducted by Professm Hilary Tann, meets Tuesdays fro:fl1 7:00- 9 :00 PM and performs three con- certs each year. String players are welcome; woodwind and brass players are accepted by audition and rotation. Recent concerts have featured the Dvorak \New World\ Symphony, Brahms; Academic Festival Overture, and Daybreak by Hana Yamashita '97. The Unio11 College Choir, conducted by Pro- fessor Dianne McMullen, meetf; Mondays and Wednesdays from 5:00-6:30 PM and perfenns both on- and off-campus throughout mal and informal settings. In addi- tion to presenting stildent,and fac~ ulty composers, the group often features guest artists who not only perform with the ensemble, but give workshops in improvisation. Recent guests have in.cluded saxo- phonists Nick Brignola~ Loren Schoenberg, Tim Moran and Steve Kenyon, trombonist JeffP:resslaff, bassist Jeff Fuller, and dnm:nner Ray Kaczynski. Individual lessons are offered itt Being a Biology major is not an excuse not to participate in the arts. the year. The repertoire is dra-wn from a variety of choral traditions, from Renaissance to contemporary. The choir often collabe>rates with the UnionCollegeOrchestra toper- form large-scale works. Member- ship is open to all members of tile Unioncommunity. The Union Cal- lege Jazz EnSemble,. led by Profes- sor Tim Olsen, meets Wednesdays from 7 :00-9:00· PM and perfQnns throughout the year in both for- voice, board, guitar, wind, brass, percussion, and string instxu- ments. Lessons are paid for sepa- rately and are taught by both full- time and adjunct faculty. Perfor- mance ·workshops are full credit courses in vocal ensembles (AMU27), chamber ensembles (AMU28), and jazz ensembles (AMU29), and provide an oppor- tunity for the intensive stlldy and perfonnance of a part1'1 cut:u cal repertoire. At least one perfor- mance workshop is offered .each term. Student musical groups include the Dutch Pipers, an ail-male acapella group and the Garnet Mintrelles,an all-female group. In the dance department, credit is available at the rate of one-third credit per term, with a maximum of two full credits allowed. Students need to take three consecutive terms.of dance practica instruction. Dance classes are offered in ballet and dance. Introduction to Dance Movement explores the dynamics, rhythm, phrasing, and use of space unique to modem dance while de- veloping technical strength. No experience is needed. Modem Dance is a technique class for mod- em dance students to gain an in- depth understanding of how the body moves. Develop an increased under- standing of proper placement, alignment, and flexibility in Ballet I. It is an introduction to the basic techniques of classical ballet Each class incorporates anatomical alignment in the classical form. Students learn ballet technique and style by combining a barre warm-up, centre phrases, and across~the-t1oor combinations. In- sight into control of the physical self is explored through turns, jumps, extensions, and the classi- cal form. Ballet II is a conthluation of Ballet I with emphasis on more complex mental combinations and musicality. Ballet Ill is an. exten-' sian of Ballet II. The student run dance team performs at many school occasions, like footbalt games and during fall, winter and spr~g-fest. The theater student at Union is offered aneclectic range of perfor- mance opportunities. This includes work with various guest artists/di- rectors as well as professional com- paniesperforming at Union College as part of the \Proctor's Too\ se- ries. This highly regarded series is a · collaborative effort between Proctor's Theater, a major present- ing organization in Schenectady> and the Union theater program, whereby nationally and intema- ti<mally .acclaimed experimental theater companies are brought to Union College each term to perform and lecture. Union is also the home of the MountebMJ.ks, the oldest student ... run theater group in the United States. Feel free to bring ideas to direct or work on various shows to Mountebanks meetings each · Thursday in the Yulrnan Theater. The recently formed Groundlings club offers subsidized. trips to see theater performances in New York City. These !lie justsoine of the ways you can get involved in the arts at Union. Seeindividual faculty mem- bers for :more information. Art~ 1 -.-.- Ye: 5:30 l ater Yuln Depa Th' dents atert, ulty Unio Int sor~ toro brief outli: theat \An1 n terir dece plac~ and evil. A1 to b( will' T post fora stres reqll

Arts·&:: Enterta.1~est Clrom.t.tibinu~i!l • September 16, 1999 • Page 11 Theater Open. House Draws A Crowd by Kimbedy;Rollback A&E Eclitor Yesterday, on ~eptember 15, at 5:30 a tleckofnewc:omersand the- ater veterans diJ:()pped by the Yulman for the Theater Department's Open. House .. the annual event allows for stu- dents who have an mte}\eSt in the,. ater to get acquamted. witl1 the fac- ulty and the st]Ld:ents who run Union; s theater program. Introductions Cllllle tirst. .Profes- sor William Finlay-,who is the ditec, toroftg.e Yulnu;tn Theater, gave a brief overview of the progran:t and outlined the plan. for this year of theater. Thefallp:roduction, willhe \Antigone\ by. S()phocles. what the outcome it is always a learning experience, The winter production is to be directed by a new member of the Theater Department faculty, ICelli Wondra. Professor Wondra is currently teaching Beginning Acting and Improv. The :play she will be di- recting is called \Love·~ Fire,\ a compilation of Shakespeare's works, with a focus on the women of his plays. ·The department is que~tioning the mode of presentation for the piece. Ideas of staged readings and \chamber theater\ have been tossed around. The intent is to produce a work that will be con- ducted in a style similar to the workshop production .of '\Two Gentlemen ofV erona\ which was put on two years ago. nounced, it has been mentioned that Finlay seeks to bring an out- side :director in, aUowing theater stude:t!.tS the opportunity to work with as many different profession- als as possible. Ne:xt came introductions from the other faculty. Professor Patricia Culbert teaches Speech Cornrn.unication. Professor Charles Steckler teaches Theater Production and Stage Design and is also the theatrical mastermind behind the works of art that students perform on. John Miller is the lighting; genius who can take a black box and transform it into a \HOUSE\ or a southern sl}nset. Then came the Mountebanks. The Greek trasedy ofa noble sis- ter intent on a p:r:o.:per burial for her deceased brotheT has earned its place in til:ne as a triumph of good and honesty ovu corruption and evil. · The spring production will be \Picasso at the Lapin Agile\ writ- ten by Steve M~. Yes, Steve Martin. It is an outrageous com- edy that the department has been trying to do for over a year. Co- medians, clear your calendars for Spring term. · The country's oldest student the- ater group: s co-chairs, Phoebe Burr, and Jessica Chapell, intro- duced themselves and gave a talk about the club and the upcoming; seasons. Anyone who is interested in any aspect of theater is encouraged to attend the meeting ofthe Mounte- banks tonight at 5:30PM in the Green Roomofthe Yulman. Auditions forAntigone will be tomorrow. Sign-ups will be in the lobby of the Yulman Theater. Auditions for Jhe;piece, which is to be directed by :PT()fessor Finlay, will becheld tomorrow, The audition sign-up list wiil be posted in the lobby of the Yuhnan for anyone whois interested. Finlay stressed that exp~:rience is not a pre- requisite for auditioning. You may \Picasso at the Lapin Agile\ promises to be a production that Union will notsoon forget While the t to be an- After all of the presentations, students were invited to enjoy a \succu1ent repast,\ said Steckler. The Open House was a success. 3_weeks of laundry . The Yulman appears to be head- ing in the direction of a more in- tense and intimate program, focus- ing on participation and dedication by all who are interested but not on the same scale as, say, \Caba- ret.\ ..;.,r·.~ ·.•,,·.,.r!'tk.l·l·•H•.·.ul~~~:·.t·l.no.lr.~.F}.t •'d , ... ! <'·j·•nd•t>\••tF'.,,. kr•:».~···:· .l.J,.J,,tt.n:!J:,.rh f\t'<'·:; ... , .• , \,,,,d ,r ... k. •• ::< lln•~.·.·otd· .r.,•,\.::-1.1'::-..·r.Jv ( ~oxk\l\ ~ \.:\·•·u··,r 1m j; ... -,,:f(' .21~ho-,LJ1 t'' <'L-:'Gr'f: .;,;;·,:.;~ ,.,., ~··E>I•. ph•:<JW n ,;;; ..l'' ,:,,..,.arn;-•J;;\ n~.:d·\ \-I\!. .lll tf; \ ! ...... monrr-1:· ll\t'. \n,: >r.;J: \.t: !Jt. n ,,.. 11 l·l ,• h ~ 11, • • \'\ . ·, 1: :J1•,: '\u·.:: .. ;... ~~- lo.n~ ,1~ I; tl; :\.',I •H:J...:r.~ i lp~:. ll1 ;t_,J '.II~: ''''\•. ,;r:.j •,tt.'l.l \.f..: I ( J.)\; ...... ,.;i:: (C~ti: . ...Jo •. \ I\Jlll~ ::.: , ..... ,-.,.~j~,.,;L~om .J'l\'l..:p 1:· •:r.lhi:\.; l:\i <Oii..o·t:~·. h.-.u j !•>t 1 ');• eo.:~:. \Smaller productions with more attention to detail,\ said Steckler, when asked about the style for 1999-2000. Good luck to both the Depart- ment and the Mountebanks in the ~Fleet Ready When You Are

The Eternal Question This is it! by Michaela Cautela Contributing Writer You hear it like a dull murmur, the buzzing sound like a swarm of locusts abottt to attack the happy little haven that is Union College. You hear it everywhere: in the campus center, in your dorm room, in the locker room, in class., .... \So how was your sum- mer?\ Th(}se five seemingly in- nocuous words that, when strung together, send off a silent alarm in the back of my mind. RUN. I have been looking for a re- search project to work on while here as a student at Union, and I think that after a torturous first few days riddled with preoccupied welcomes, I have finally f()und my research calling. I am going to conduct a little study. After wiater break, I am going to come back and to the first per- son who asks me how my break was, reply, \'Well I found aut that my cat is dying of liver cancer, my Well, well, well. My third and final year writing this column. It only seems like yesterday that I was a wise-ass sophomore who thought that he knew everything. Now I'm just a wise-ass senior laughing at those sophomores. I remember back in 1997 at Union when I. .. wait does this sound fa- miliar? Where have you read stuff like this before? That's right, with the schme<l departure ofMichelle Tham, I will be taking over her colunm from now on. 1 apologize to the Fresh- men who have no idea what I'm talking ab()ut. If you want, you can dig up any of last year's Concor- diensis• to· fully understand what you are about to read. So here goes: The Aronowitz family has al- ways been. a source of inspiration for me. When I was five years old my dad took me aside and said something to me that changed my life completely. He said, \Son you suck. Better to hear it from me than from someone else. Now go start your first day of kinder- garten;\ What an amazing man. He just kept reminding me how much I sucked throughout my childhood. This motivated me to get into a good school and try to be my best My mother is a different story. When she wasn't strung out on Valium <Jr NyQuil, she was mak- ing me peanut butter and fruit roll- up sandwiches, always diagonal cut, with the crusts half off. I think I liked those. Actually, I really miss them, a lot. Maybe I don ;t. car broke, the school took away my scholarship and my house burned down.\ To this, I predict (and this is not yet a formal by\ pothesis, but it is my plan, so don't get any ideas) that the pers()n to whom I am recounting the sordid details of my weeks at home, will merely smile and nod, mumbling some nicety altmg the lines of '\that's nice,\ all the time looking over his or her shoulder for the next person he or she can trauma- tize with false excitement, or look- ing for that really hot guy/girl that was away on a term abroad in the fall. After I get notably shotdownby this person (who has unwittingly made himself a statistic in my little study), l will make my way through the crowd, starting con- versations here and there, looking for victims. Now don't get me wrong, I am a firm believer in the ~·how was your summer\ conversation starter, even use it myself on oc- casion. It is particularly useful when the I'm not really sure. What was I saying again? Oh yeah, so my mom was really in and out of con- sciousness during my younger years.. Her depression really rubbed off on me. One time, at band camp, I stuck a flute ... sorry there's another tangent. Man, the Sixth Sense was good. It reminded me of my promiscuous sister. She was cheap too, o·nly like five bucks. What have I learned from all this? I think that my college ex- perience really was affected by my family.. . You know what? This isn't going to work. 1 think I'll just stick to the basics and do · what I've been doing in this col- umn for the past two years, you can't change the nature of my beast. So let's see ... There's been some changes made to U a ion while we were gone. The strang- est one would probably have to be the 10:55 and 11:10 classes on MWF. Wow! So not only did they create a common lunch period two years ago, we now have different \periods\ to go to lunch. 1 guess the 15 minutes between classes can be considered a recess time. Nap time is-just around the cor- ner. Homeroom is part of .. The Plan.\ Just as long as we don't have parent chaperones on field trips, I'll be a happy camper. But the problem herein doesn't He in the very High School looking schedule. The problem is that this new schedule doesn't solve the prob- lem it was cre_ated to alleviate, the person whom you are addressing is either a) busy and likely to give you a three wmd answer, mak- ing both you and that person feel as if you have had a real conver- sation even though no such thing actually took place, b) someone you recognize but have no idea what their name is, and hope that through the conversation you can either remember it or have some~ one else approach you and call the person by their name, or c) that guy or girl you heoked up with in the first few weeks of school and have really nothing else to say to. by Jim. Dewan News Editor This is it. For members ·of the Class of 20\)0, this is it. The big sllebang, gtMd fmale, the end of . a11 era. The end of this year will ctJ!minate f()ur long hard years Of 'W()rk and dedication to UnionC()l- le~e. That's where the name ofrny ~·column\ comes from. Every ·week in Herr Schultz's section • .in • <JOO wprds or less, 1 will talk freely :.at my own will about most aoy- • tiling. President Hull started the year off on the ri~ht foot last week. Lit- erally, President Hull was in atten- dance at some sort of a pre-or.ien- t!ltion campout with freshmen. in halls confirms what we've known for years now: everyone who spendS too much time there has a few loose screws. The soon-to-be AD-missions Building is empty, and Hull & co. are doing eve.ryth.ing to make sure no one touches the place. Secu- rity drives by the place about once every five minutes and shines flashlights in the windows to en- sure its emp.tiness. The doors are all boarded up and the fire escape is inaccessible, making it, an at- tractive eyesore for an those corn- ing the coll~ge's main gate. In any of these cases, asking the controversial question is not only appropriate, but can cause both relief and a sense of real frater- nity for both parties involved. • the Berkshire Mountains the week The Samples play tonight. Go see them, they're good. Speaking ofthe Convocation, was Ithe only one took notice when President Hull mentioned.Frank Federici '98 in the sa.tne breath as former Presi- dent Chester Arthur Class of 1848 and former Secretary ofState Wil- liam Seward Class of 1828 in the same breath? What Frank did cer- tainly took a lot of courage, but it ' pales in comparison to running the country, or buying the country's largest state. President Hull had the opportunity to begin the annual battle between Greeks and the ad- ministration with an olive branch, but instead, he came out swinging in a battle that has long since ended. Even though it's no secret that Hull is a Sigma Chi dating back to his Dartmouth College days, it seems as though he and his \senior staff\ are doing quite a bit to pick fights with the Greeks. It's no secret that the faculty despises the Greek system by their over- whelming approval of sophomore rush and their choice of Federici as the Bailey Prize winner, but the administration could at least pre- tend to be fair about the I do; however, caution you to be careful who you are inadvert- ently suubbing in your quest to maximize your social aware- ness ... because while you may think that no one is watching; there is .a chance I could be lurk- ing in the shadows with a clip- . before classes started. At tllis campout, in the middle of a heated g:ame of\Red Rover,\ an unfortu~ !tate collision with a freshman in- , jured our administrator-in-chief's ankle, which forced him to ride. to : ·last week's Conv:ocation in a .golf cart, prompting many Union stu- . dents to W()nder if his cart would ])e named '\Roger/' and also :!tow · many other golf carts would be 11.amed after administrators. crowding in the dining halls. The first tw() weeks have proved that. People are checking their mail while waiting on line for Pasta Pronto atUpperclass (for all you slower people, that means that the line is extended to the mailboxes). People are probably waiting for friends to come out of the 11 :10 classes, so they don't start eating until the other class is over. Blah blah blah. This comes down 1o one irrefutable, eternal fact: If you have a cQmmon lunchperiod, you will have crazy lines NO MAT- TER WHAT. There's no way aroand that. You could change schedules around, you could even assign people to cer:tain times through a wristband system, but there will still be really long, sucky lines. So now that we have this fact, what can we do? Well, instead of trying to make the common lUilch period better (which I just said is impossible), we should .. ·. yup, you guessed it, eliminate the lunch period. Whew ... I'vebeen saying this for two years, but some people out there are still con- vinced that this lunch period is a · good thing. But since these · people are the ones in charge, : there will always be long lines, a common lunch period, and Cyberwraps. You can't make a difference. Thank you. I'll leave you this week with a top ten list. Since I was on Term · Abroad last fall, this is my fnst fall term in two years. These also aren't in any particular order. On that note ... Corning back to campus, there's really no major changes to the . campus lan_dscape since last win- ter, the last time I was here full time. I think most of the frre hy- drants that have popped up in be- tween the Nott and Payne Gate are new. The Dnly other thing I coald notice was that every waH the painters in Humanities and S()cial Sciences could fmd, they paitlted. . I never really noticed the color [Jefore, and now they're WHITE. Not just white, mind you, but Top Ten Signs That You're Back For Fall Term at Union 1 0) Before every class the first 5) You forgot what sandpaper week, freslnnen are talking ai:Jout toilet paper feels like, but you how wasted they were the aight slowly and painfully remember. before. 4) Dating = Hooking Up 9) \How wuz yer summa'?'\ be- 3) You forgot what a really bad comes a staple in your oral diet. printer was like, until you walked 8) \Fine how wuz yers?'~ be- inothe computerlab again, forthe .::omes a staple in your oral re- first time. :Sponse diet. 2) You're a little rusty on your 7) You bave to wrestle a squir- column that was pretty solid the rel for the fro-yo you just bought. year before. 6) You bave to adjust to drink- 1) You're reading this wonder- ing EVERY night of the week, in- ful, newsworthy, newspaper. stead ofjllSt two. EXTRA INCOME FOR '99 Earn $500 • $1000 weekly stuffing envetopes, For details • RUSH $1 .00 with SASE to: GROuP FIVS 6547 N. Academy Blvd., PMa.N Colorado Springs, CO 80918 ~ sun we! ery bo1 Co Fo, we col wb the stc bri pri ap: taJ thl by m: in we H th m Tl w pl hi w fc D1 si o· h It \ fi 11

l L r Features QI1111'Cnrbilm!l!li!l!l • September 16, 1999 ·Page 13 Matty G's World I Can't Believe I'm Not Butter J)-y Matt Gendron Staff Writer Well, a.:fter a long and fabu:IOus summer I ended up back at lJnion wellbefo:re Labor Day, and as ev- ery term begins, I need to buy books. Though I wrote alJoiJt the College bookstore last year inrny Following the Money expose, this week I would like to revLsit the colleg~ bClokstoretopic. La.styear when I interviewed Tim alld Lee, the nice managers of the book- store, tltey explained tha.t they bring us book& at a reas~nable price. This year ldecided to by anew approach to cut down theex.orbi- tant price I pay for books. I thought that I would take the bulf by the horns,. and go out aDd find my books at cheaper prices than in the b()okstore. Two years ago, a senim J knew would only orderhis books online; Hewoll11i save ten dollars ~r so for the more expensive books, and. much less on the cheape1 ones. Thougll he wotrld save m@oney, he would ltave to search for the best price cnline, which wouJd take hours, a:nd then he would have t() waitUDtil second week everyterm for theb()oks to be shippe:d to his mailbox:. That was two years a~o, and since tll.en the Intem~::t bas taken off in llllprecedented ways. There has been tbou.sands of start-up Internet companies out thoere, and while some have failed, n1My have found investors in search ()!f the big Internet score. · Over the past few wee:bl, T have been nearing more and more ra.- dio advertisements for new com- panies that will outfit y<Hlr donn room a:nd sell you all your hcok:s over the internet for a son..g. Well, they offer posters (but U11ion has that sidewalk poster sale at tlle beginn:ing of the year, so no inter\ est there), scboolsupplies(butnot any cll.eaper than office: max or superstores like that), ancl they sa.y they have highly competLiive tex::t- book prices. I ffi()St frequently hea:rd.. an ad for \V ar:sity Books. com\ so I'd figure I'd loClk into that first. Their web site lo&lks like a thirteell-year-olci created it for them. I tried for fif- teen minutes to get my economics book from them, and what endsup happening? Every butt~n on the page jllSt reloaded their main page. Maybe this is the result of ~n overl<>aded server, or just a fluke~ but tluy lost my busil3.ess rig;hi there. I went back just ill few days ago~ iltld their buttons W:()tked, so I figllred I'd give them a try. I h11ve four bMks I need this term, and only two were listed online a.t VarsityBooks.com. To add ins111t to injury, it would !Lave only amou:nted to four-doll!llt savings, and tm.t's not including shippin.:g and handling. Next l decided to go to A.ltlaz()n.co:rn, an industry leader in online book sales. TIJ.ey had tile book I was looking for as well as the study gu.ide compa11ion, were wilJing to ship in two 10\ three days for a reasonable amolmlt, and was ten dollars cheaper tha.n our C>wn boolcstore. There was one catch: the version they were selling was the third edition, and our l><JDk- store had the fourth editi()n in · by Derric Harriogton Staff Writer stock. The difference inprin:tings . • -------~---­ ask (go ah.ead ... as.k... fll wait... The word going Around Cam- ok, are you dbne? Mlat's taking pus about the Samples is \who the so long ... OM know, you're afraid (insert favorite fo.ur letter word of asking that out loud, because here) are the Samples?\ Good was oVer a year and a half; and in most fields a lot hap.pens in the course.ofa year. When the book- . store heard this, they said, ·~rfyou . want an old edition book,. I can get · you one for two-thirds its normal· price.\ Afterwards, I decided to go to · Amazon's main rival: Barnes and Noble.com. Well, they also had · my book and the study g1:1ide in · an easy to grasp format, and like amazon, .they told me other titles that people who had gotten my book also purchased. Their price was just five dollars more than Amazon, which meant only~ sav- ings of five dollars over the book- · store, and still was the older edi~ Wl!at gives me th.e right to write thatmale/female/other is sitting at question. I think somehow, who- this cC>lumn? What makes me the the table accross :tJ:om you right ever is promotingthemhere needs person for the job? Is it because now, and you're krind of looking to have a better way of getting a I'm a good writer? No ... is it be- at him/her/it with. ·~gocgly eyes\... sample of the Samples out to us ... causel'm \well endowed\? Well, that's ok, in that ca.se,just putthe then again, their show is tonight, while I'm not commenting on paperaway,eomebacktoitwhen so I guess I'm doing the job of whether or not I am, that has noth- you're alone, and tb.etl ask again... helping the word get out some. Go ing to do with me writing for fea- it's ok, I don't mind. Really. But to the show, support any band that tures. I'm only writing this so I can when you go and talk to m~, if I fits the type of music you like. I tell you about what's going on, don'ttalkback tg you, considerit support straightedge, hardcore, some stuff here at Union, and some me doing the same tlb.ing ... cause and metal on a frequent basis ... so off campus. I already know that you're not very nitee •.. and make \whatever dude.\ most of you are not going to like me cry). Anyways, I went into Ahbhh ... judging by the Siren everything I have to say, so I apolo- Albany to go to a bar. I know, I rolling by my window, .school is gize in advance, but man, when know. I'm under 2l... isn't that indeed back in session. What was yo~'re up at college, reality sucks, shocking? (note t() U11:ion, just in it that I missed the most abcut doesn't it? Oh yeah ... hi... case you forgot, the legal drink- Union? Was it how I, Deric \put- Welcomebacktothe;landoffun, ingageis21offcampus} Well,I ting the ack back in Black\ the :Place where the air s:rnells like went to Valentine's, which Harrington, used to write for the tion. WarmRootbeer, and the towels are doubles as a concrert location for concordy? No ... not quite. Was it I then trieda.searchonm:y new oh-so.,.flufffy, andPop-tarts are the local bands to come and play. The how all the women were fighting IE5 split-screen search engine. real fourth food group ... Uhion Col- band of choice la.st week ... One over me all the time? While that was neat, it tumed up lege. How \Val) your summer ... no King Down. Forthoseofyou that No ... don't forget this isDeric ... ten thousand sites, and after wad- really,! wanttolrnow, this isn'tjust don;t know them,. a bit of back- not Antonio \too sexy\ Bandares. ding through roughly a tltousand, a question like everyone asks you ground. They hrolce up at the he- here ... It was obviously how open I only had two or three siies. .that when you get back from the sum- ginning ()f Summer, than an- minded and generally accepting would be helpful. I tri<ld over a mer, because we're all so inept at nounced that they were getting our campus is of people that don't hundred searching this way. starting conversation that we have back together w.ith their singer quite fit the mold. Yeah ... that and In a late edition to this article, I to go back to the Linus (fr()m the from two albums ago, for a few it's easy to nail Jell-o to a tree. In was made aware that the Union Peanuts comic strip ... if you don't shows, and hopefully permantly. other words, I've sat back this past College Bookstore is now online lrnow it, look it up ... it has Snoopy, Every bardcore fan in Albany week and saw Freshmen say \what at http://www. uniorz. edu/ you know ... that cute dog?) secu- came out for wha.i was the crazi- do you want, I'm a freshman?\ CampusLife!Services/Bo<Jfatore/ rity type blanket of ccnversation, est concert of my life. You think they say this because index.html. the familiar \how was your sum- It was a bit like getting your they're trying to fit in? No, it's They giveyouih.eoption<>fpur- rner\ thing. So, take the time to arms stuck in a fan, and your legs because most upperclassmen are chasing any of.the Union C()llege answer, and let me know ... I sug- in a chipperfshreadder (if you so wrapped up in themselves, that paraphernalia online, as well as gestnot talking to the page, because have not tried thi:s before, please they lose perspective of everyone your textbooks and UNION- ·chances arel'mnotgonnahearit donot .. Ihaveto.tellyouthat,due else. IQUE Gifts that can be picked up (unless ofcom:se, I'm on the other to the threat of a really, really Take my advice, (yeah, this'll there, or shipped. To get text- side of tb.e pap~r, looking at you, dumb person). happen) go out and meet one per- books you need a valid Union waiting to1seeybu lookup fr.om the . . .. And for those of you missing son you don't know this week. College ID number. From there, p&per and say \hey Deric, your ar- Michelle Tham's Articles: \That Man, I've met more awesome they give you a list of ally<>11Icur- ticle sucks huge this week\) so in.. reminds me of when my father people in these first two weeks, rent classes, and then they list the stead, send me a E-mail at used to run me through the chip- than almost any other time in my books you will need .for such Slapymcgee@aol.com. per/shredder. Snre, it wasn't a life. Maybe it seems surreal to classes. This seems a great idea Now that I got the shameless usual childhood, but then again, those of you that can't pull your forcuttingdownlines intbeBook- plug from my E-mail address out is anyone's? We'd run me headoutofthe bucketofyourown store that form at the begin:n:ing of of the way (look for a return by it through the cbipperfshredder, then weekend vomit long enough to do every term. next week, so until then, drink. a lot pick up the bag tbatheld my con- so, but to the rest of you out there, Online, they offer used or new of Pepsi cola beverages (Union tents, an<i go to the park. I loved you'd really be making this place versions of all of the books.. If you made me say that)). I guess it's safe the park. It was whe:~e my family better. request a used version, you may to move on to other topics. I made would push arou:ndi. the trash bar- I know, what a load of crap, eh? be unpleasantly surprised when a trip into Albany this past week- rel thatheldmybag ()'body.\ (ok, You can keep on thinking that... you get your credit-card bill. They end. \Why would you do that'' you sorry folks, I'm ending it there.) I'm not here to change you. do automatically switch y()ur or- 1----.:t.,__ __ :__ ___ ..::_ __ __::...__~--~..:::;..........-_...:;... ________ ..;;_~--- derfromtheusedtoanewver- The Asian Persuasion sion if they run out of med cop- ies, but this is clearly stated on the page itself. This system guarantees you a book when you go to pick your order up, but may result ill a few disappointed bargain hUllters. In conclusion, the sirell !;Cng of cheap books delivered qtlicl<ly via E-Cornmerce is alluring. and while one day we will !l() doubt replace such personal methods that are currently employed, tllat time is not now. Since oaline book sales are not the alternaii-ve; I am quite happy with the :Bcokstore and their continuing efforts to bring books to the students quicker, easier, a11d chea.}ler. If anyone has suggestions for future improvemen1s totllebook- store, they can be contaded in the Reamer Campus Cen1er, or by phone at (518) 388-6188. As for this article, I feelthat any input from the Ieader caJl cnly help to make it better, so if you have something to tell tne, ()t an. idea for an article you would like to see written, send me <'r line at Gendrotnn@idol.unioii. edu. by Phillip Cho Contributing Writter I am Korean-American. No de- nying it. I am a resident of Cali- fornia. No denying that either. Many a time, people ask me what I'm doing here at Union College, so far away from home. Honestly, ·I couldn'ttell you. Maybe I was a little mad when it came down to choosing a college. But.either way, I am here. Been here for almost four years now. Wow, time goes fast. Seems like only yesterday that I was a fresh- man. There is one thing I did learn here at Union, though. Things don't always go the way you plan. That is part of life, as my mom once told me. Growing up in Cali- fornia, things always \went my way.\ Always. Maybe because my parents made an effort to pro- vide rne with what I wanted. Maybe because my Korean- American friends strived to get me what I needed. Maybe because my family is rich, and has a strong baclcgmUild in the K.orean Com- munity in Los Angeles. But re- gardless, I had tllings really easy in California. Hed<, I live in a small suburb canted Pacific Pali- sades. Everything c:::onceiveable is five minutes away by car. The beach, the mall, the movie theater, restauuants. Money flowed easily. Dates came easily. Life was easy there. Too easy. Things. alway& went m.y way. Maybe 1n those terms,. I was ex- tremely spoiled_ People in Cali- fornia know who I am. They know my statu::s. They cater to what I need, because they know my status. However, he-re in Union Col- lege, this is not the case. People here do not know my status. People do not know my. parents. I am just \another~' person. Just anoth.er Asian. In this small com- munity of scho{ll, I must fend for myself. Learn Jto do things on my own. Learn to be 'independent. At first, I hated dcing this. Having been s&l reliant ;on rny parents, and my status. But now, I appreciate what Union was able to teach me. I have learned what my true worth is as an individuaL I have learned to love the small things in life. I have learned to make friends with people whose lives are so foreign to me. And it has done me good. I am no longer the spoiled indi- vidual, always thinking about himself first. I have learned to think of others, ioo, even when it is sometimess not in my interest to. Funny how you don't realize any of this stuff until you aTe in- variably almost done. I am alieady a Senior now, and a totally differ- ent person from when I first came here. At times~ I honestly dread coming back here from bre~tk. Sometimes, I want things to be easy. But in the end, I am always glad to come back Come back to independence. Where things don't always go my way. That is real- ity. That is the real world. Real- ity can be a scary place. That is true. But that my friends, is life. Speaking oflife~ frat parties scare me. That is another reality.

Page 14 · September 16, 1999 · Violence Rocks East Timor: US Delegation Sent by Fhillip Ciao Contributing Writer In late January 1999, Indonesian President Habibie annotmced that he would give East Timor an op- tion. The options presented were choosing autonomy under Indone- sia or separating from Indonesia. In response to this news, networks of thirteen district-level militias were formed. They were formed to defend the population against pro-independe11ce guerrillas, but were in fact used to intimidate East Timorese into supporting au~ tonomy under Indonesian sover- eignty. These militias were openly sup- ported by the Indonesian army, and most were based at the local dis- trict military command. Militia violence reached a peak in April, and continued through July. Then suddenly, militia violence started to lesse!l in the weeks that followed, only to erupt again when registration centers opened in late July to register voters for the ref- erendum on independence. Oil August 30, 1999, a UN-organized referendum was held to decide whether East Timtlr would secede from Indonesia. The East 'Timorese voted over- whelmingly for independence from Indonesia. Since the results were announced on September 4, 1999, the regi()n once again de- scended into a state of violence. After only a few days f<>llowing the election, civilian militias once again continued to kidnap, murder, and force the evacuation of local residents. Up to a third of the population was forced out of the region. anti-UN This further hinders the possibility of peacekeeping troops entering East Timor. If Indonesia had not relented and allowed nesia handle the E~st Timorsituationas they see fit. B1.1t yet. maybe the international community should be involved be- Aid workers, UN workers, and foreign diplomats bec.ame targets of the militias. The militias at- tacked the Australian Consulate, UN offices, and even the Austra- lian Ambassador to Indonesia. On September l 0, 1999 the UN evacu- ated its personnel from East Timor. Indonesian President B.J. Habibie made many assur- ances to the UN that he Indonesian Pl'esident B .J. Habibie made many assurances to the UN that he woulcl restore or- der to the region. HoVIever, despite the imposition of martial law, he was unable to restore stability to the region with his coontry's mili- tary forces. would restore o;rder to there- The UN has since condemned the violence in East Timor, and has sent a delegation to :push Indone- sia to restore stability to the region. As of yet, no peacekeeping move- ment has stopped the massacre at East 'Timor. Being that.no one else gion. However, despite the ·imposition of martial law, he · was unable to restore stabil-, ity to the region with his country's military forces. in East Timor was armed except the militia, and the guerillas re- peacekeeping troops. to come into fused to use weapons against the East Timor, th.e UN would not militias, the people of East Timor have been able to send these were underthe mercy()fthese mi- troops into East Timor unless litias. J akras invited them over their ter- Meanwhile, Jakras (a neighbor ritory, which is highly unlikely, of East Timor) has been writing ... since currently the mood in Jakras propaganda news about how the is anti-American. , J West wants East Timor so that they What is interesting about this can have a better ave11ue to con- crisis is that it plays over to an idea trol and survey the area. of sovereignty that each country The mood in Jala:Ets has been has aright to. Maybe the interna- very anti-US, anti-Allstralia, and tional community should let Indo- ca11se of.the extreme human rights violations. Or maybe, the US, Australia, New Zealand, and Por- tugal should not be involved as a military force in Indonesia as the lndonesian parliament wished. All these issues have made it ex- . trernely hard to gauge what should ami what will be done in tile fu- ture. Another interesting situation is th.e US government's unwilling- ness to get too involved in the cri- sis over at East Timor. Maybe the United States has be- come a little wary ofhelping com~ bat other country's problems. Or maybe the US government has nothing to gain from being in- valved. One carr question if this is the right choice made by the United States. What strikes me as interesting is that since the fall of the former USSR, there have been mauy civil wars in countries. Kosovo and Rowanda come to mind. Since the threat of communism is gone, the world is more open. There is no fear ofWorld War III. Maybe this fact has made countries more comfortable with warfare: civil or neighborly. I believe that in the future, the US will play a lesser role in inter- national dilemmas asacountty, but be more involved in her UN role. It seems nowadays, the US gov- ernment does not like to have too much attention in the international world. After all, it does feel safer to send troops under cover of the UN flag, rather than under the US flag. Maybe the US learned th.is fact through their experience in Viet- nam. Maybe Desert Storm ••woke the US up.\ But regardless, the role oftheUrrited States in the glo- bal world is changing. The global world is definitely changing. We are beginning to learn each day that the world is small after all. Transportation has enabled the world to be at our fin ... gertips. The All-American Senator Shoots for White House by Stepben Nemeth Staff Writer In a return to the days of small town politicking, Bill Bradley made official his candidacy for the Democratic nomination last Wednesday from the steps of his high school in Crystal City, Mis- souri. During the 30-minute speech Bradley described himself as a small town boy that learned discipline and hard work from his father and about honesty, courage, and integrity from his mother. He also stressed that the lessons he learned from his small town~ the basketball court, and the floor of the Senate have given him the qualities needed to unseat Gore for the Democratic nomination but to also serve as the next President. His announcement comes as a result of a low-key campaign that has allowed Bradley to operate relatively free from c<>ntroversy and criticism. His alternative cam- paign has also narrowed the gap between Gore and Bradley, which at times as been in the double dig- its to a relatively mi11or one. His campaign has also been surprising due to the fact that he has as- sembled a talented COIJlS of advi- sors and has raised m<>re money than was expected. to address the nation's spiritual yearnings as well as it material sh()rtcomings. \What we need in America is a deeper prosperity. Deeper in the sense that we have a prosperity that semble an ex- .-----------------------~-----, adds up to more tremely tal- His announcement comes as a thanthesumor Despite the narr()wing gap, many still believe tlut Bradley faces an uphill fight to unseat Vice President Gore, who has used his past several years in the White House to as- plish if elected. His statements centered around reducing child- hood poverty and providing af- fordable health care to America•s working class and poor. He took what might have been a veiled ented group all our posses- of advisors result o.f' a low-ke\ camnaign thal sio~s; a pros- and a formi- '.1 J r penty that ~~~~eof ;~~~ has allowed Bradley to operate ~;~ei~~~;e:~ tacts. But the 1 • [ fi fi. well as out.\ mere mention Te.tQ(lVe }' Tee TOm COntTOVergy The event ~:t~:~~·:y:~ and criticism. His alternative stay i 11 the racehasgiven campaign has also narrowed the the campaign was held in his small home- town to show Bradley as the antithesis of the ~~~~y cr::~ gap between Gore and Bradley, ;~~i~!~~gton pe.~~;.~e;::~ which at times as been in the ~~~~~~~~~~ through an d bl d. • . •t·. t _ l ( • . [ • Many joutnal- importantini- · OU e lgl S 0 a re a lVe ~ mlllOI~ists described tial phase the small town where he has one. feel of the clearly gotten event. Many himself into the game, But there's shot at the present administration, buildings had homemade \Bradley a very big next step in putting the which has been attacked by lib- for President\ signs hanging from substance into his themes.\ eral critics for offering small so- tlleir windows. The high school In bis speech ·Bra<lley resisted lutions to large problems. \We band that played for Bradley was naming Gore or the Cli11ton admin- will do fewer things. But they will occasionally out of tune and at the istration ditectly but ()ffered gen- be essential thin.gs, and we will do reception following the speech eral statements of wbat he hopes them more thoroughly.\ th.ere wasapleth.ora.ofhomemade his administration might accom- Bradley also spoke of his desire coolies and iced tea. But at the same time there was a pervading sense of the paradox of a small town speech dressed up to be a big- time media event Following the reception, Brad- ley took the press on a tour of his many boyhood haunts. He took re- porters to his boyhood house, his church, and on a detailed tour of his high school. Through this tour it became apparent that Bill Brad- ley remains a revered figure now as the day he left town over 38 years ago. \He could do it aU on the basketball court, but he didn't try to do it all. And what made him a great ball player will make him a great President,\ according to Ralph Boyer, a retired teacher and former coach who saw Bradley play. The emergence of the Bradley campaign has given many disaf- fected voters an alternative to Clinton-scarred Gore or to George W. Bush. His campaign now of- fers Democratic voters an option of party loyalty with the clear mes- sage of Clinton dissatisfaction. Bradley lags behind Gore only by a handful of points, and with the election still a number of months away, Bradley stands in good shape to up-seat the indigenous and challenge the Republican frontrunner.

:- 'f s s e s r J j I. s t ) 1 r t { ) s s 1 t f r ' t . - t ' r ) ' ) • - 1 ' l World New$ tltlltttcrrMensi!J • September 16, 1999 ·Page 15 Buchanan Prepares To Jump Party· by Dan Kirsch StaffWriter Pat Buchanan is on the verge of Jumping to the Reform Party ·(:)f ~oss Perot and Jesse Ventura, sa:y insiders. For m~nths, Buchanan basbeen toying with·fue noti<niof abandoning the Republican Party ofliis youth and political career to pursue what is a much more likely chance ·of getting to the general election in November 2000. l:Iis sister and top adviser, fanner U.S. Treasurer · Angela \Bay\ .Buchanan, has been in contact with Reform Party Chairman :R11ss Verney and 1996 Vice Presidential nominee Pat Choate with questions ab.out th~ Ref~tm Party ~s arcane Tules and how M:r. Buch11nan would go about cap.turing th.e nomination, Chofl,te say!! that Buchanan is simply wmting for mi~-October to announce bjs. de· fectitm, atim.e by which Bucha:nan said on NBC-TV's \Meet the Press\ he wouldbe poised to make ·a.deGision. Vefney, a Perot supporter, has long been chairman of the Reform Party. B~h&s beaded the party of diverse p.o1iticalphjlosop.hies sin~ its inception as a vehicle for Ross Perot's candidacy for President in 1996. He was also a top campaign aide to Perot during his fi~.:st ru.n ill 1992. Verney, though, is on h.is way out, and with him possibly much of what would make the Reform Party an enticing vehicle for Mt. Buchanan. Minnesota Governor Jesse Vent11ra w_as thoughtby many to have captured the party from Mr. Perot this p~t summer when his candidate,. po- litical activist Jack Gargan <Jf Florida, was elected chair. Ventura, a former wrestler who stun.ned the political world with his third-party victory in November of 199g, has repeatedly said he will not run for President in 2000, but wants a capable candidate to be the standard bearer next year so the party will continue to function as the largest thitd party in the U.S. and receive federal matching funds, as it will this year. Earlier in the summer, Ventura was known to be pushing Lowell Weicker of Connecticut, a former liberal Re- publican senator and independent governor, to run on the Reform Party ticket. Weicker has shown poor name recogp.ition and popu- larity in the polls,. however, and Ventura now seems to be pushing billionaire Donald Trump to lead the party into 2000. \Everybody wants me to run. for president, and I have a lot 0f respect for Jesse and the job he has done;• Trump said in a telephone interview from his NeVI York office. Buchanan has long been an out- sider in the Republican Party. In 1992,. he ran against incumbent President George Bush for theRe· publican nomination. He cam- paigned on three main issues: 1) Presi(lent Bush's broken promise of no tax increases, 2) President Bush's push for the North Ameri· can Free Trade Agreement, abol- ish.ing most tariffs between Canada, the U.S., and Mexico, and 3)Eush'sproclamationofa \New World Order\ during the war be- tween the United States/United Nations coalition and Iraq over the latter's invasion of Kuwait. Buchanan lost every primary he entered in 1992, but still made a str()ng showing as a populist pro- test candidate against Bush, whom many thought had failed in many of his initiative.s. Since then, thouglt, l3l!chanan has not made a spectacul1ll' showing. He won the New Hampshire primary in 1996, but that w~s the largest victo()ry he scored, an<! stayed in the ra~e even after Se11ator Bob Dole had gar- date. He indeed holds the same economically protective views as party founder Ross Perot, and .is currently the only contender in the race that advocates high tariffs <lo imports and an isolationist forei,go policy. The Republican front-tun- net, Texas Governor George Vf. Some conservative .columnists •have been contending tha/t Buchanan would have an ex- cellent chance not only of cap- · turing the Reform nod, but have an outside shot at winning • the election as a ''reborn,'' even · ''centrist,'' candidate. nered en<Jugh delegates f()r the nominatio11. This year, Buchanan came in fifth of nine GOP candidates who competed in the Aug. 14 Iowa Straw Poll. He came in bellind so- cial co.nservative activist Gary Bauer, and ma,ny speculated Buchanan was no longer the viable social co11servative alter11ative. That race was between millionaire publish~r Steve Forbes and Bauer. Some conservative columnists have been contending that Buchanarn would have an eKcelJent chance n()t only of capturing the Reform . .O()d, but have an outside shot at winning the electicm as a \reb()rn even ••centrist,\ ·candi- Bush, and both major Democratic Party candidates, Vice Presidemt Al Gore and former New Jersey Senator Bill Bradley, favor mostly free trade and an internationalist foreign policy. Buchanan s~i-d Sunday and has said in the past that he believes the Republican Party today is nearly a \Xerox copy\ of the Democratic Party; '\'I think what we have is a one-party system in Washington, D.C. tltat is masquerading as a two-party system, and I think what we need is a real opposition party.\ If he were to capture the ell- dorsement, his campaign wotll.d hope to pull usually pro-labor anod protectionism voters from the Democratic Party and socially con- servative votel,\s from the Republi- can Party. Indeed, Buchanan hopes to pull together and even widen the coa- lition Perot received in 1992, be~ cause they believe that many of the vo~ers who endorsed Buchanan in those primaries went on to vote for Perot, who polled nearly 20% in the general election. If he receives the same or a less share than Perot did in 1996 (8% ), it may spell the end for both the Reform Party and Pat Buchanan's political career. If the Reform Party does not receive at least 5% of the vote in the 2000 Presidential election, they will cease to receive federal matching funds and will not be at liberty to easily field a candidate, which could put the brakes on a Ventura candidacy. Ventura, who denies that he is putting together a \Stop Buchanan\ movement in the party, says that he doesn't think Buchanan would be a good fit for the self-professed \fiscally conser- vative, socially moderate\ party. Ventura says Buchanan puts social issues such as his opposition to abortion on the \front bumer\ and too many Reform Party members are not in line with those views. Buchanan, though, is already to the point of encouragmg speculation about a vice-presidential candi- date. Most speculators agree that Buchanan would not tol.erate a candidate who does not agree with his opposition to abortion. and he would need to find at least a former Democrat who is pro-life and iden- tified with the labor movement. First on the list: new Teamsters President Jimmy Hoffa. Debate on Taxes Lingers on Past Summer Months by David Groner Staff Writer Fact: the United States wille:t~ perience a budget surplus in th.e years 2000 through 2009, of $3.1 trillion. A surplus? Where did this come from and, more importantly, how should that money be spent? It is not often that somethingofthis stature takes precedence itt Wash- ington, cons\lmitlg much of Con- gressional debate and discussion. Republicans want to use some of the surplus for taxes, tllat is, a taxpayer refund. On the other hand, most Democrats and Presi- dent Clinton would like to use that surplus to revamp Social Security and the like algng with paying off the national delit>Boili.are pushes in the opposite direction, away from any sort of possible biparti- sanship plan . Since neither party has an over- whelming majority in the House vr Senate, President Clinton will most likely be the deciding factor ill what path tlle surplus adopts. During the long and hot sll1lllll.er months, Republicans proposed two taxpayer relief acts: one in tile House and one in the Senate, which were then molded into one large and all-embracing confer- ence bill. On the House side, a bill sponsored by Rep. Bill Archer (R- TX), called for a 10% across-the- hoard income tax rate reduction; an elimination of the both the mar- riage and death taxes; a more elaborate education tax. credit sys- tem; health care and pension re- form; and weakening the strength of the capital gains tax. The Sen- ate tax bill, sponsored by Sell. William Roth (R-DE), saw simi- ceptio11 was to cut taxes on a smaller l)uantitative scale. Both bills were then brought to the ta:ble, in conference, and differences were disc11ssed until a compromise was reached -$792 billion O'Ver ten years. From there, a mass:ive lob- bying effort centered on dissuad- ing President Clinton from vetoing the pack.age transpired. Presidoent Clinton and his fellow Democrats, conversely, would like Republicans want to use some of the urplus for taxes, that is, a taxpayer efund. On the other hand, most. emocrats and President Clinton would like to use that surplus to revamp .social Security and the like along with aying off the national,debt. .Jar concepts with some refurbish- ing. While the bill called for a in· come tax rate reduction, it pro- posed a cut of 1% in one year, where as the H<luse side cut taxes by 10% over ten years. The Senate bill also dealt with eliminating the death tax and so f~rth. In essence, Sen. Roth's per- to see tl~at surplus used to stabilize Social Security and Medicare. Taxes a£e not a priority at tb.is time; they ar~ not as significant .as reduc- ing the 11ational debt. sDemoctatic leaders. will not compro-mise for they feel that if this bill is signed into la.w; oouch dis- tress will gain headway. They be- lieve that if a major tax credit is passed, investment in educatio•n will be lost, the national debt will grow even furtlter, and the ri~h will continue to get richer as tile poor remain \uncivilized\ allid poverty-stricken. Much of the commotio11 is rooted in the fact that politics su:r- passes real ideas and opinions, ~md Democrats have failed to show any leadership. Republicans !leed to continue to lobby tax relief, .aod send President Clinton their tax. proposal should lte veto it, thereby strengthening their cause and im a larger scheme of things making: it more apparent for a change as tile 2000 Presidential Election gr<>..vs closer. Whether the Republic~n leaders have the will to do this, is yet to be determined. So, it is undecided in what will happen to the tax issue. Repu!Jli- cans must put mote effort imto their lobbying tactics, should tlley want their tax bill to be propell-ly recognized,. expressing more en- thusiasmin the reduction of all in- come tax rates by one perce:nt; ease tlte marriage penalty on many two-income C()Uples; eliminateg estate taxes and tb.e altern~tive minimum income tax; reduce capital gains taxes; expand p.en- sion and 401 (k) laws; and .IJro- vide numerous business tax breaks. Republican leaders have to go at President Clinton and other Democratic leaders without any sort of hesitation. Taxes are not about pure poli- tics; they are about giving money back where it is rightly owed: the people. Should productiveness disappear and the likeliness of a massive tax relief act seem remote, then Republicans can begin to compromise and work with the Democrats and their chief, Presi- dent Clinton. Hopefully, the people's voices will be heard and the Democrats will realize that taxes are a prior- ity and the money does deserve to be returned to its rightful owners. It will be an interesting Congres- sional session, a battlegr<>und to say the least. Washington, taxes, and Repub- licans vs. Democrats is what our country was founded upon, and therefore deserves thorough atten- tion. The next millennium is unfold- ing before our very eyes, making it even more of a necessity to throw out any petty immaturity and work together to create a more perfect union, a union where prosperity can flourish and the people are satisfied.

Dutchmen Come Out Strong on Weaks Field Union's experience too much forSt. Lawrence; Cruise to 45-17 Victory by David Brooks Editor-in-Chief The Fighting Dutchmen kicked off the 1999 campaign withasolid 45-17 defeat of the St. Lawrmce Saints. The game saw Uni()n's dominant offense and potent de- fense in full effect. In the offseason, St. LawrencepourefS30 million into the athletic department, with the football team bein~ the beneficiary's of a new all-na1llral grass field, along with an artificial turf practice facility. A stadium seating along with press box. will be added during the season. De~ spite the new facilities, the Saints were no match for the Dutchmen. Union's defense took the field first and the Saints were onlya.ble to manage five yards and forced to punt. With a strong 20 mph \.:'li.Jlds at his back, sophomore Ben Gill:lert led the offense on the field and. or- chestrateda 14play, 57-yardt<Juch- down drive, which ended in a two- yard run by sophomore tailback, Jasper Mills. The Saints il.elped keep the drive alive by ~r.iving Union 15 yards on a personal foul call, leading to a Dutchmeil first down. The defense again shut down the Saints defense and forcedt:hem to punt. St. Lawrence was not able to get the punt off before jl.lllior captain Devon Wimberly blocked the punt, and Union recove1ed on theSaints35-yardline. Gilbert con- nected with senior captain Brian 0 'Donnell for a gain of 23 yards, before hitting sophomore fall\back Matt Laporta in the slot foi a 16- yard touchdown pass. With 5:15 to go in the ftrst quarter, the :.!:rotch- men held a 14-0 lead. St. Lawrence again wemt 1b.ree and out but was able to rec()ver a fumble on the punt retun, but again went three and out. Ullion' s offense took over on their ~wn 30- yard. Behind a solid offensiveline; including senior captaiE E.C. Stumpf, seniors Greg WillillltlS and Pat Fortin, and sophomores Mike Visconti and Luke Wocl!enski, Union march down the field end- ing with 19 yard touchd()VJO pass from Gilbert to O'DonnelL The Dutchmen now lead 21-0. The Sail:Jts quarterback, junior Jared A.rneJI, a transfer from Union, was not having any luck against Union's passdefens.e. Sophomore Jantes Griffin picked off an Amell pass and raa5 6 yards for the score, giving the Dutchmen a command- ing 28-0 lea<!. Two series later, se- nior capt<iin Joe Attanasio inter- cepted a Amell pass, putting an end to the Saints drive. Sophomore Radney Wood picked off another Amell pass, which left Union with a ftrst and ten fromtl!eSaints 19-yard.line. It took Union just one play, and Laporta broke free for a 19-yard touchdoW!l run. The Saints would defense, piling up seven tackles, six of which were unassisted. Sophomore Mike Rosenthal also had seven tackles, including a sack. Senior defens~ve end Josh Meyer added two sacks of his own, and sophomQre Jonah Adelman, who missed last year with injuries, had a solid game with four tackles. Adelman had one tackle for an 11 yard loss and a sack for a seven yard and a key third down play. Although the defense gave up two touchdowns in the fourth quar- ter, thegamewasalreadyinUnion's hand. Despite losing key member of last year's defense, the team proved that they can pick up where \ We played well. Our approach was good and our ... first team look wonderful; but we could be more consistent in the running the ball. \ - Head Coach John Audino end the \half with a 49-yard field goal (wind supported) but still trailed th~ Dutchmen35-3. At the half, head coach John Audino s11id \The game's not over. We still have to play another 30 minutes ()f tough football.\ they left off. \Our defense played quite well,\ stated Audino, \They were physicalout there today.\ The offense, too, picked up where they left off, scoring 38 points in three quarters, before letting up in the fourthquarter. SaidAadino, \Our approach was good Our first team look wonderful, hut we could be Passing ATT Ben Gilbert 20 Hank Papale 1 Rushing ATT Jasper Mills 19 Ben Gilbert 4 Matt Laporta 4 Rob Bennett 1 1 mote consistent in nmning tll.e :ball.\ Added Williams~ .. We played well, but there is always room for improvement.\ The offense accu- mulated 318 yards, while the de- fense only allowed 34: yards rush- ing and a total of 187 yards~--'L<W~ played pretty well,\ said Wimberly. When asked about a weak spot oli. · the defense, Attanasio said ·~e don't really have any. We a.re f;l strong team.\ Even though the offense scored 38 points, Audino said, \We coald have done a little better.\ When asked about the role of full ba.ck Laporta, Audino noted, \W e\re going to try to get Matt the hall more, all around.\ The coach was also happy to see strong play frorn Adelman as well as freshman Jus- tin Sievert, who ended the day witl:J. two tackles . The Fighting Dutchmen ope11 theii home season this weekend as WPiheads into town. WPI retums 1 Ooffensive starters and has a !lew coach guiding them. Union beat WPI 34-15 last year at WPI. Last year, the Engineers set an NCAA record with 70 pass attempts. Tiris year's offense still passes fre- quently, but runs the option mote. Wimberly welcomes the passing, saying, \We love it when UJ.ey pass. Theil explosive, but we ca11. shut them down.\ WPI appears to be a stronger team and is loolc- ing for revenge against the Dtltch. The battle will take JJlace on \Frmk Bailey Field at 1 :00 this Satu:rilay. 0 fie.usive Statis.tJ.k.ri. COMP INT 14 1 0 () GAIN TD'S 60 2 20 () 27 1 35 0 The second half saw Union's starters slowly heading toward the bench, 1ile second team heading into the _game. With 8106left in the third quarter, Union's special teams was given a chance. Sophomore Andrew Ruffo lined up for a 46- yard field goal. Ruffo split the up- rights, a:ndmade the kick lookeasy, along withgiving Uniona38-31ead With tlle Wind at his back for half the game, Ruffo consistently landed the kickoff in the back of the emlzcne, giving the Saints no chance ()f a return. With the first and sec()nd team shuffling in and out oftlle game, Union engineered a 39-yard, 10 p-lay drive that re- sultedin a 2-yardtouchdown room by Mills. Union lead 45-3, and .most ()f the starters would sit out for the remainder of the game. Recei~ing CATCHES YARDS TD 'S Brian O'Donnell 4 66 1 Bryan Slekes 4 45 0 Idris Abdul-Aziz 2 16 0 Matt Laporta 2 33 l Senior Mike Thompson led the Defensive Statistics Tackles /NT Sac./cs Mike Thompson 7 0 () 7 0 () 4 0 2 SCORE BY QUARTER Mike R<>senthal Jonah Adelman 'IEAM 1 2 3 4 Devon Wimberly 2 0 0 2 1 0 1 1 0 2 1 0 l.N<l'J 21 14 10 0 45 Joe Attanasio James Griffin St. la\\lfeOCe 0 3 0 14 17 Radney Wood YARDS TD'S 167 2 0 0 LONG 9 17 19 6 LONG 23 20 11 17 Blocked TD's o, 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0

Sports . ct!om:nrMen!E!lil'l • September lli, 1999 • Page 17 Field Hockey Splits First Two Games by Cory Kiefer Contributing Writer After two weeks of intense practice and incredibly sore muscles, the Univn College Dutchwomen' sFieldHockey team proudly opened their season this :Past Friday against Skidmore ColA lege. The team suffered the loss of many key players last spring and is CUJJl'ently young and in the mak- ing entering the '9() season. The 13 returni.Ilg veterans have now been joined by 11 new\rookies\ to make for a young but very promising squad. Co-Captain Michelle Tardif stated, ' 1 We are Lucky to have many freshmen to fill the gaps left open last spring. l'ogether we will make a solid group.\ The team of ;99 hopes to im- prove on last year's third place finish in theUCAA league and an outstanding 8-6 record. The Dutchwomen faced Skidmore College on the turf Fri- day. The games started off slow san Joyal tipped in a classic both of the penalty shots ~iven to \buzzer sh.ot\just as time ex:pire<l, the team. The valiant effort failed? making the score at the end ofthe and the game ended in a disap- Aaron Seliger/TC Dutchwomen once again stepped out onto the turf for another chal- lenging match. Saturday's oppo- nent was Rensselaer and the Dutchwomen were ready. The game started off at an even pace, yet wi:th the first goal scored by Turchetti midway through the second half the pace began to in- crease. Union kept the intensityris· ing in the second half with the sec- ond goal ofthe game by Turchetti. Tile game ended in a 2-0 shut- out by Union. Goalie Miche lie Tardif stopped all three shots she faced and is credited with the shut- out. Co-Captain Susuan Joyal was pleased with her team ;s effort this weekend. \The solid base of vet- erans complimented by the new freshmen. Everything has fallen into place and the team will only continue to grow stronger as the season progresses.\ Captains Susan Joyal and Michelle Tardif, both of whomare in the class of2000, head the team, which is coached by returning head coach Tracy Barclay and a new assistant coach, Katie Lachapelle. Senior Captain Susan Joyal Drives the balldown the turf in kvpes of outsmarting the Skidmore defense. The team's next match is at Hamilton College this Wednesday at 4:00PM. Their next home game is scheduled for Saturday Septem- ber 1& at 5:00 PM against Wesleyan. for the team with Skidmore scoring four early goals. Union's intensity, however, was brought back up at the end of the ftrst half when Su- Women's X-Country Strong in Opener by Laura Kelmano'Vich, Jen Rose and Elizabeth Brogen Contributing Writers After an intense week of double practices during preseason, the Union Women's Cross-Country Team faced long-time rival Hamilton College atthe Sarato~a course this past Saturday, September 11. The Dutchwomen were led by Senior Captain Amy Slabich, whose strong showing set the pace ()f the meet for the rest of the Union runners. Returning veterans Glenna Malcom, Jordanna Mallich, Jennie Lubart, Carrie Welch and Alex Podgemey are the backbone of this young team, and their lead- ership helped the newcomers along in their first collegiate meet ever. In the intense heat of the race, the Union Women demonstrated strength in numbers, breaking up packs of Hamilton runners at ev- ery turn. These packs proved help- ful in encouragi.Ilg the women to work harder when fatigue seemed to overtake them. The Union run- ners charged the hills with full force, leaving the Hamilton runners in the dust. The 5K. race was an incredible challenge for everyone, but they were able to remain fo- cused and pull through for a strong fmisb. The large numbers of incoming freshmen on the team this year proved to be an immense asset in the meet against Hamilton; Fresh- man Megltan Michels, Katie Higley, Ashley Rinear, Jen Rose, Elizabeth Brogen, Elyse Levy, Mitsuyo Shimura and Lin Zheng, ~nd Sophomores Caitlin Loureiro and Laura Kelrnanovich are wel- come additions to the team who not only add numbers to the roster but encouragement to their teammates as well. There is an abundant amount of promise and potential within the team this year. The large turnout ofmembers could very well be at- tributed to the enthusiasm of Coach Charlie Casey. With Casey's recruiti.Ilg techniques and constant support from the team, he is add- ing numbers to his roster daily .. The thirty-eight ~members of both the men's and women's teams offer a welcoming environment to all those who show an interest in this demanding sport. Union fared well in their meet this weekend, despite losing to Hamilton, 45-15, and the girls are looking forward to better perfor- mances in the future. The first meet is only a stepping stone for the rest of the season and a building block of a strong foundation for the fu- ture of Union Women's Cross Country. Tbe Final Results: Amy Slabich {20:30); Glenna Malcom (20:54); Caitlin Loureiro {21 :29); Meghan Michels {22:04); Katie Higley {22:14); AshleyR.inear(23:34); Jen Rose(24:21) first half 4-1 in Skidmore's favo;r. Union picked up the pace ill ilte second half with the help of S()pilo- more Yvonne Turchetti scoriiLg pointing 6-3 loss for Union, leav- ing the girls with a mission for the following day's game. Less than 24 hours later, the The home games take place on the Turf next to the rink. Please come and show your support for the team! Men's X-Country Leading The Pack by Frank Filiciott() Contributing Writer SARA TOGA, New York · A.t high noon on Saturday, September 11, the Hamilton and Union mem' s and women's cross country tea:ms t<>ok to the starting line and :Ie:- kindled a rivalry that will conti!lu-e for the rest of the season. In an intense setting filled witll beautiful sunlight and crisp air:, ow teams ran off into the trails. aiL<! with that came a clash of physLcal ability and talent, but most :itnJ)OI'· tantly, a battle of mental t()ugh- . ness. Although the Hamilton teams prevailed, Union established themselves as contenders f0or tlu championship season. It was made apparent befm:e tl!e men's ra~e by Captain Kenny Sc()tt that Hamilton was going to ~e a tough team to beat. He proved to be correct after Hamilton toa.k the fust seven places in the mea's rac-e, a hllly, tree-covered 8K course. Although the pre-race bu<ldle seemed powerful, the energy cre- ated was still not enough to s.',;;\lay the ftnal score, 50-15, in favo:r·of Hamilton. Scottwas the firstUnion finisher, placing eighth in a tiln.-e 10f 29:06, more than a minute fa.ster than last weekend. Finishing twelve second.s b~­ hind ScC)tt and in tenth plac~ w.as Frank Filiciotto in a time ofZ9 :18. Matt Connely was Union's tlliid man. He placed fourteenth <>verall in a time of 30:36, also abo-ut a minute faster than last weekemd's time trial. Matt .. Phoenix\ Webe:rfmished closely behind Connely in a time of 30:57, placing sixteenth. Our fifth man was Joe \TT\ Kelmanovich in an outstanding time of 31:30. Our seve11th man last weekend, Kelmanovid1 moved up the ranks fmishingjust behind Hamilton's Bressler and directly in front of a pack of Dutchman run- ners. Members of this pack included juniors Jon \Niemo\ Nieman (32:04), John \Oakley\ Houghton (32:20), and Steve Schuler(32:38). Their racing portrays an accurate archetype of pack runn:i11g at its fmest. Following Jones were Joe Kilcullen (34:00), Ben Waite (34: 18), Terry Chang (35:01), Don Schaeffer (35:21), Jerald Whittingtoru(35:26) who improved his last weelc' s time by seven min- utes, Andrew Weyl (36:18), and Atsu Kaneko (36:27), who also shaved seven minutes off last week's time. Atsu has been desig- nated team leader on Fridays and Saturdays during warmups and cooldowns. Both teams head to Middlebury, Vermont ne::xt weekend where they hope to improve on this weekend's performance. This weekend served as a great way to fmd out where we are at in. relation to our rivals. Next week begins the long haul to- ward the top. Hopefully our Dutch- men runners can make it there.

Page 18 • Se tember 16, 1999 • Olom:arbien9is Sport§ . ' Volleyball Opens Season at Vassar Women's Soccer Emerges from William Smith Unbeaten: Matusewicz With Hat Trick Against Utica by Kristen Nobles Contributing Writer The 1999 season for the 'Jnion Women's Volleyball team is look- ing promising despite g;raduating three phwers last year. Co~captain Jill Wright says, \The entire team has great chemistry bot:Jt on and off the court. We are looking for- ward to a long and successful sea- son.\ With eight returning ptayers, the team has both experience and lead- ership. The six new fres!mlen have proved themselves to h.ave great skill and a desire to win. The freshmen are n<Jt the only newcomers to the tellm. The Dutch women are very excited to be starting the season with a new as- sistant coach, Linda Bevelander, also the head Union W <Jmen 's La- crosse coach. \[Coach Bevelander] brings such a positive outlook to every game .and prac- tice. She really amazes us with her optimistic attitude,\ states sopho- more setter Thalia Matthews. Attitude isn't everything, though. The team nee<lstime and patience to fall into a pattern and get used to team play amd match tempo, as a cohesive unit is neces- sary. Head coach Leslie Bogllcki is try- ing to test out differ.~llt lineups, offenses, and defenses to most ef- fectively utilize the skills of each player. The best way to accom- plish this is during match play. The Vassar Tournament, which the girls competed in this past weekend, was the perfect oppor- tunity to see where they stand as a team. Despite greatteamwork, the . l>y Rachel Bukowski Sports Editor Dutchwomen finished a disap. . Lastseason, the Women's Soc- pointing sixth place out of nine cer Tea:.m set a new standard fo.t teams. Union athletic excellence. The On Friday, Union lost their fust team posted a 13-1-1 record., re- match to Vassar in three straight maining undefeated for 12 games games. Saturday morning began in a ro\\1 a!ld fmishing frrst in the with a tiring 3-2 win over Clark UCAA leag!le with perfect 6-0-0 University, where after a grueling '· record. Sophomore Katie Smithand two and a half hour match, the Junior Missy Matusewicz were Dutcilwomen came out on top post- named to the Alf..:State tearn~ a.nd ing tile following scores: ( 14-16); . . Smith t:eceived \Rookie ef the 15-t 1; 15-11;(12--15); 15-9. Year\ Honors. During their last two matchesnf Head Coach Brian Speck is :re- the tournament versus Montclair · turning this season to lead his team State University and Haverford towards what many predict to be University, the Dutchwomen's the same greatness as last yea.r's high level of play was apparent. team acliieved. Co-Captains Abby Both the defense and offense be- • Harris, Jaymee Wilson and ltdie gan to fall into place. Senior co- . Cardettino are providing the team captain Johanna Enger was named with ye:ars of experience and ac- to the all-tournament team for both . quiredl-eadership abilities. her great netplay and defense. The team is already offtc a great The next scheduled match is set • · start, as they returned fmrn the for this weekend when the team will WilliamSmithinvitational; Septem- ber 11-12, unbeaten. The Dutchwomen went 2-0, and.placed second in the tournament behind William Smith, the decision based on the goal difference between the two. On Saturday, Union kicked off their season against Geneseo Col- lege with a 3-0 victory. It was an exciti!lg game, with a sweet out- come for the Dutch women. Harris, Matusewicz and Smith, are credited with Union's goals, and Goalie Sh- annon Powers stopped all three shots she was faced with. The following day, Union con- tinued to crush the competition, handingN ew York University a 5- 1 defeat. Freshm~ Abby West ma<le her offensive debut, scoring two ofUnion's five goals. Marga- ret K.ostro, Stephanie Maychack, and Matusewicz each added one to the final score. Powers had a great game, stopping ·five of the six shots she as faced with. Tt1esday, Union had their home opener against Utica College and sl!owed them no mercy in a 9~0. shutout. Matusewicz scored three goals, giving her the frr$t hat trick of the season, and Powers posted her second shutout of the season with on~y three games played thus far. The team is very optimistic i:(boutthe upcoming season. They have every one of their starters. re- turning to the roster along with a plethora offresh new faces. Katie Smith stated, \We are off to a great start and it's only going to get bet- ter from here. I am predicting an even better season with the im- mense amount of talent on our ·team this year:\ The Union Women have their next two games at Hamilton Col- lege and Vassar College on Sep- tember 22 and 25, respectively. They will thenretumhome for what should. be exciting games against New Paltz Skidn:1ore, RPI and Hartwick. be hosting art invitational both Fri- ----------------~---------;---------......o-'---~-- day and Saturday in the Memorial FieLd House located next to Achil- · les Rink. Union will he competing · against Potsdam, Plattsburgh and • Russel Sage in what should l>e · challenging and exciting games. The Union lnvitational is a great opportunity to see the • Dut.chwomen at their best. Game times will be posted around cam- pus and on the Internet.. Come and • support the girls in their quest for a UCAA championship and their .. fight for a spot in the state tourna- : ment. Concordiensis holds meetings every Thursday night at 7P:M in CC Room 303a Join us ./ tonight. We need your help! Men's Soccer Finishes.· Union Tournament 1-1 .. . Lombardo Has Goal, Two Assists Against Mount Saint Mary ,s by Rachel Bukowski Sports EditO'r The Union College Men's Soc- cer Team shows a great deal of promise for the upcoming season as they emerged from this weekend's Union Tourmment with a 1-1 tie. The Dutchmen got o ffto a quick start on Saturday afternoon with a 5-0 shutoutofMountSaintMaty's College. Five minutes i.nto the game, sophomore Shill Y okoto scored off of an assist from Gra- ham Lombardo to give Union an early lead, and fourandahalfmin- utes later Chris Serotta scored Union's second goal w:ith an un- assisted long kick. Before t~e first half ()(the game was over, Union added one more to the score with a goal by Aaron Sabin, assisted by Lombardo. Mount Saint Mary's Wl)uld fail to capitalize on any scoring opportu- nities. Union scored twice in the sec- ond half, the first goal a penalty kick by Lombardo at 54:24. And with fifteen minutes left, David Alpren buried a kick in the right side of the net with the helpofCap- tain Bryan Roy to finish the game. The Dutchmen clearly domi- nated this game from not only the offensive but defensive end as well. The defense did not allow Mount Saint Mary's to make a single shot on goal; Union had. nine. Following the win, Head Coach Jeff Guinn stated that he was pleased with the outcome of the game. \We currently have a very yoang team, and there is always room for improvement. Tiley looked good today, though, and fmi.shed a number of their scoring opportunities.\ The following day proved to be a hit more challenging fot the Dutchmen, as they played against a much stronger team from the Massachusetts Institute of Tech- nology. MIT dominated from the begi'n- ning, controlling the possession <lf the ball for most of the opening min11tes. The first half was un~ eventful, however, except for one goal by Feto Lewis ofMIT at 33:39 to give them a 1-0 lead. In the second halfUnionstepped. up jts game a. bit; ~specially in the Sloan Miller/TC Freshman Graham Lom~l.lrao swiftly moves the ball past two Mount Saint Mary 'splayets. last 20 minutes in order to try and overcome their one-goal de:ficit. However, they failed to capitalize on a number of scoring chances, includinga breakaway by freshman Tom Holmes, and the score re- mained l-0 in favor ofMIT. Dutch- man goalie AJ Shedd finished the game with 11 saves; MIT's goalie had5. Guinn was less enthusiastic with the results of Sunday's game, but knew beforehand that it was going to be a much greater challenge than Saturday's game. \We needed to put MIT under more pressure and we lacked the composure and con- centration to do that.\ When asked about his outlook for the upcoming games, Guinn staied, \It's hard to predict an out- come for the rest ofthe season. I'm hopeful that we have the ability to improve our performance in the upcoming games.'' This Wednesday, Union willplay Hamilton at Union at 4:00, and then the Dutchmen will go on the road for Saturday's game at Hobart. Stu- dent support is always appreci- ated. The schedule of all the men's home games can be found 011 the Internet ...___ ........ -.----· -. -. -- .- .. -.-. -.--------- -----. -. -~~-- -_ -_ -_ .-.-_...-_ -. -. -. -. -----. - ... - ~ - - - - - . .. - .. - - . ·- . . . ~

SpQrtS Ql:pmtQ:bien,is • September 16, 1999 • Page 19 Men's Rugby Falls Just Short At Plattsburgh Team Will Face Oneonta This Saturday at Union by Will Johnson Contributing Writer Most Union College. students would consider it a chore to wak<e up at seve~ o 'clockQn. a Saturday morning, much less waking up \t such an ungodly hot1r forpwposes of playing rugby. The Union C<Jl- lege Men's Rugby Team wa:s nl() exception Saturday morning, as tlt.e team wearily dragged themselves to thenortherQmostregionsofNew York State for their season opem- ing rugby matCh. After sitting through an excruci- atingly ·long women '•s match, th.e team laced up their boots an.d pulled up their socks. for 80 mill~ utes of rucking, mauling, and scrumming. Tom \PitsofDeatfu\ Burke kicked offtostart the matcb, and the Dutchmen started the af- temoonon defense, which is wher:e they found themselves for mue.h of the early going. As Plattsburgh slowly crept llp the field, the Union defens;e seemed to employ a 'bend but don't break' strategy, allowing little resistance as the Plattsburg.h mggers soon wound up inside tile Union twenty-two meter line, ~y this time rookie prop Adam \Which way to the Sin-B-in~\ Pischel was teaming the game from his view in the back of try zone. Yet, as Plattsburgh threatened, Union unanimously decided, With- out speaking a word, to come to- gether for a goal line stand. The pack begal). bdrive back the Mike W ebert and Derek \De- short pushes fro111. tlle Plattsburgh stroyer\ McCowan. TI1e line was pack, lead by.ctusbirigtackles from equally successful in thwarting SophomQ>re prop Chris Vietor puts Union into PltlttSbUirf!h ·t.initor, during the weekend's match. their attempts to go wide, with cen- ter Nick \The Professional Decoy': Campbell and fullback Jon \GQ\ tower in the thick of the fray. The Dutchmen were eventually able to muster some offensive steam, however, as serum. half Heath \The Wild Mongoose\ Levine took advantage of the out- side speed of Mike \Go-go-go- ggggo\ Nigro and wing Atom Nemo BQlin-Gamsby (no nickname needed). The ftrst-half resilience paid off, as Bmke added a conver- sion from 35 meters aw&.y to give the Dutchmen a 3-0 lead going into the half. Opening the second half, the Dutchmen let their guard down just enough to allow Plattsburgh to score the g~me' s first try, and take a 5-3lea.d. Behind for the fusttime, Union regained the defensive in- tensity they possessed in the first b:alf. Flyhalf Will .. Anklebitin'' Johnson and hookerSeth\Lay the Smack Down\ Potkinenjoyed up- reo ring and replanting a regretful Plattsburgh rugger. Constant defensive presence from second rows Steve Flaherty and Travis Clark, and p:rop Chris \Fly like a butterfly, stinglike a V\ Vietor left Union d~ep in Plattsburgh teiTitory. Nigro provided the offensive spark Union needed, racing around fo0ur defenders and lofting a beau- tiful pass to Johnson, wh.o set up a ruck inside the 22. Clark dug the ball out, and passed wide to speedy AI ··white Lightning\ Hebert. All Plattsburgh could do was watch, as Hebert galloped into the try zone to provide the Dutch- menwith.an8-5lead. Plattsburgh, however, came charging back with another try, aided by refereeing that was fur- ther offtlle mark than the humor in this artide. Down 12-8, and time winding down,. Union again showed their composue, mounting a steady of- fensive ,charge, ending with Burke's well-timed pass to Johnson, who reduced the Plattsbmgh defense to a mere af- terthought with his speed. Burke's extra point made it 15- 12, and Union now only needed to play some so.liddefense for the fi- nal 12 minutes. Union, fatigued by injuries, could not stop the final push by the opposition, nor could they combat the calls from Andy \Minute'?\ McDonald. Plattsburgh pushed in three final tries, to make the fmal score 29-15. As the team wearily dragged themselves back to their sport-util- ity vehicles (except for Webert's Grey Ghost) for the three and a half- hour drive home, they knew that they showed some promise. The strong performance they put on after O>nly a week of practice was evidence that the season will pick up soon. Come out and support our devoted ruggers next Saturday, as they match up against Oneonta at home. Women~s Rugby ,set to Kick Off Seas:on Tennis Hopes to Continue a Strong Winning Tradition by Anne Bishko Staff Writer The Union College Womell's Rugby Club started practices last week for the fall season. Altho11gh the team has had some trou~le keeping a full roster in the ,past, there has been a large turnoat 50 far this year, which.is a good sig;n. Only one senior was lost fr0om the team~ and even though !Ler skills will be difficult to replace, the lat::ger team size should help to compensate. The rookies may 11.ot fully understand the game q11ite yet, but they are learning fast a11d look good already. The veteran coach, Da'Ve Robbins, has returned and is currently whipping the team illto shape. With the first game oft:he season quickly approachiltg~ practices have been tou~h. however, the b1.1rnps and bruises are accepted '\Vitb. the hope of another Upstates 'Vidcry this year. · \The girls perf()IIIle<l-very well last year,. and this yeari£ sh.aping up to be even st:ro!l~er,\ said an optimistic Robbins. With veteta.ns s~~:ch as Tomi Allanson, EUe11 Taylor, len Comerford and Kilti~ Comerford helping to guidethe team, it looks as though R<lbl>:ill.s\ predictions · will come true. Kn..-o-wledge of the sport and the p~rfec:ticn of players' skills remai11 to be the most important factors,. but the team always apprecia.te.s having a supportive crovld The team's first match is this Saturday at Ilaxt'Wick College. Women's .gamesge11erally begin around lOam 011 Saturdays, so make sure to st()I> \>.J 1() ;cheer them oil this fall and wa.:tc:b their rise to the top. by JessicaMiJier Contributing Writer You may have seen them around campus with their racquets or you may have seen them on the courts, lobbing, volleying, and serving. The Union Women's Varsity Ten- nis Team is practicing hard and looking strong this. fall, as they are striving to live up to last year's third place finishes in both the UCAA and State tournaments in addition to a winning9-2 record~ The team is led by Senior Cap- tain Cassie Lawt<ln, who is begin- ning her fourth and fmal season on the team. She is currently start- ing at nilillber one singles position. Cassie is one of the many veter- ans on the team who not only brings outstanding leadership abilities but unmistakable talent as well. Last year, Cassie received second team All-State honors and was also the team's Most Valuable Player in 1996and 1997. The returning players include Liz Agar, AllisonBaum, Lena Jack- son, Shaunna Mercer, Becky Rubin, and Susan Yoo who pro- vide a strong backbone for this young team. Freshmen Megan Denefrio, Jackie Mason and Suneetha Venigalla are strong ad- ditions to the team as well These up-and-coming standouts hope to improve their games over the course of the season and perform well in the coming matches. The Dutchwomen, coached by Greg Roman and Bill Scanlon, com- peted in their ftrst match against Vassar on Sunday. Even though the women defeated by Vassar, 7- 2, the team is still very optimistic about the upcoming season. The number one doubles team comprised of Becky Rubin and Susan Yoo are off to a great start so far, co11tinuing their winning tra- dition a11d defeating their oppo- nents 011 Sunday morning at Vassar. The Dutchwomen are practicing hard and hope to be victorious in all three <Of their away matches in the comiiig week. They are sched- uled to piay Hamilton on Septem- ber 15, followed by matches against Clarkson on September 17 and St. Lawrence on September 18. The women's ftrst home game will be held on September 22 against Oneonta .. The full women's tennis schedule can be found on-line through the Union home page. Come and see these women in action 011 Union's courts and read about their away matches. This promises to be another successfu,l and intense season for the l)utchwomen. The Samples, Percy Hill and Angry Salad are playing TONIGHT at the Field House. Doors open at 7:30. Concert starts at 8:00. Tickets are still available. Don't miss out!





' ' \Life Will teaCh you the lessons,. it is up toyou to learn them. \ VolumeCXXIX,Numberll The Stude11t NewspnperofUuion College Si11ce 1877 · September23, 1999· S~mples Perform at Union This Week· ·News: Union Wins Grant In Conjunction With Hobart Page4 'bYJimDeWan News Editor Over .500 Union stq.dents ;;tnd . people from surrounding areas braved remnants of Hurricane Ployd to come to Memorial Field House on the Uniort College cam- w . _ 0 rl· :d. N· ew· _ .. s ••· • pus to attend a con.cert headlined . by the Folk Rock band The Earthquake Rocks Taiwan PageS Features: Matty G Reviews Films Pagell Sports: Samples, Percy Hill, and band An- . gry Salad. Angry Salad opened up the • sllow at 8 PM. When they f\rrst . tool<: the stage, the crowd that had · gathered was sparse at best. The tiok:ets for the concert listed the starting time as 9 PM, so that may have been onereason for the poor numbers,. aside :from the inclement . weather. 'Ibe situation was so no- tice~tble that Angry Salad poked fun a.t the.situatiQn,. when theirlead singer, Bob Whelan, joked that he . . \fdt completely safe\ dUring An- gry Salad's performance, because there were more members of the . · security team surrounding the · !)tage than there were concert- . goers at that point. Angry Salad finished their set ai-()lllld 8:45 with a cover of the 80's classic \99 Red Balloons .. \ Percy Hill was the next band to play, tak- ing the stage around 9 PM. This was Percy Hill's second visit to Tb'l'ee Ban;ds Play to Sparse Crowd Aaron o\:IJLz:;~::, Scunple.s lead singer Sean Kelly plays .to .a Memorial Fieldhouse crowd he alienated throughout the co:urse of the concert. Un.i()n College; they first played here during Springiest '97 on a show headlined by The Pbarcyde .. Percy Hill played a strong 45- minllte act as people filtered in dur- i11g as. the scheduled starting time came. After Percy Hill concluded the:ir act around 9:50, there was a len~thy :break before the Samples to()l1he .stage. Finally, after more tha:n 40minutes, the Samples took the stage at around 10:35. Dnrin.g the Samples' perfor- ma.nce, lead singer Sean Kelly made numerous references to the hurric.ane looming outside, and re- coi.mted their tales ofp1ayi.ng dur- ing Hmricane Andrew in Miami and numerous other run-ins witll hurricanes. Kelly made it clear that he Wall-ted the crowd to liven up, rhetorically asking the crowd whether or not this was a \.f*****g funeral par- lor.\ He and theotherbandmem- bers, by their own account, were having a good time drinking onstage, despite local laws prohib- iting it. Kelly also made references to the band's plans to smoke after the show .. One anonymous audi- ence member fgund Kelly to be \rude and obnoxious, which took away from the atmosphere of the show.\ The Samplesplayedfortwo hours, with both new and old ma- terial They played \Underwater People\ as an encore and were joined onstage by several members of the remaining audience. According to Concert Commit- tee Co-chairman Jon Lemle '01, \the concert went very smoothly.\ According to Lernle, there were no problems with security or any of the three bands. Lemle was, however, frustrated with the turnout He and the other members of the concert committee spent a great deal oftirne advertis- ing the event off-campus through radio ads and ticket giveaways on WEQX 102.7 FM, advertising on othe.r loca) campuses, ads in Metro1and and othet venues, in addition to on-campus advertising. Although Lemle was disappointed, he and the Concert Committee will, according to Lemle, \Go on an ad- vertising blitzkrieg\ for the Octo- ber 17 George Clinton concert. He will appear on tlle Union College campus, at the same venue, Me- morialField House. Tickets \vill be available shortly. Women's Soccer Creams Utica Bands Sit Down and Talk . . 9-0 Page 17 Inside Campus News - 3 Opinions- 6 Jf'orld News - 8 Features- 10 Technology -12 A&E-14 Sports~ 16 Our E-mail concortiy@ vu.union.edu by Brooke M. Barylick Editor-in-Chief Three excellent bands helped Union College begin the academic yea.r. On Thursday, September 16, The Samples, Percy Hill and An- gry Salad performed in the Field I House for both Union students and local residents. B.efore the sb.{)).v, Concordiensi$ had the op- portunity to interview various members of each band. Rhythm guitarist R~bSomers of The Samples doled out information ancl facts about th.e group. 'While sitting in the back of the tour bus, he explained that the group's origi- nal memberS, Sean Kelly and Andy Sheldon, began the band ten years ag(). Musicians who have since left the band because of creative dif- ferences and personal differences comprised the band for seven years. Three yeats ago new mem- bers Alex Matson, Sam Young and R()b Somers joined the band when the others left. Since then the gr()up has teleased three records, t..- ........... - ......... ____ .......:....;....;..-...J~ including a doublelive set and two Samples guitarist Rob Somers talks about upcoming plans. . . --·--- stu.dio recordings. The group is cunen.tly at odds with their record company and does not plan to re- lea.se any new projects until that dis])ute is resolved. Cuqently, the band is touring throt~ghout the Midwest, East and South portions of the United States.. They have played in pres- tigiOILS locations in many c:itie8; including the House of Blues in Chicago and Irving Plaza in New York City. They usually tour for a month to six weeks and then take the same amountoftime off. When asked about the origin of their songs S()mers explained, ••Things happen that give us ideas. Talking to people is .an excellent source. Women are the mainstay of all songwriting. Relationships with all people are an inspiration.\ Somers closed the interview by noting, \We've played with major labelsand noticed that we are more into means than the end results. We love performing for people. People always come see us. We are actually more cf a touring band than a radio one. But, we are not bitter about that because we get huge gratification from touring. People sing along, they support our lifestyle, which is incredibly important to us.\ He concluded, \The audience makes the show. The show is all about energy .. It's an intense Continued UIJ page 3

({Life will teach you the lessons, it is up to you to learn them. \ ThisWe,ek News: Union Wins Grant In Conjunction With Hobart Page 4 World News: Earthquake Rocks Taiwan Page 8 Features: Matty G Reviews Films Page 11 Sports: Women's Soccer Creams Utica 9-0 Page 17 Inside Ca111p11s NeJi'S - 3 Opinious - 6 World NeH'S- 8 Technology- 12 A & E -14 Sports- 16 Our E-mail concordy@ vu. union.edu Samples Perform at Union by Jim DeWan News Editor Over 500 Union students and people from surrounding areas braved remnants of Hurricane Floyd to come to Me~norial Field House on the Union College cam- pus to attend a concert headlined by the Folk Rock. band The Samples, Percy Hill, and band An- gry Salad. Angry Salad opened up the show at 8 PM. When they first took the stage, the crowd that had gathered was sparse at best. The tickets for the conceit listed the starting time as 9 Pl\1, so that may have been one reason for the poor numbers, aside frorn the inclement weather. The situation was so no- ticeable that Angry Salad poked fun at the situation, when their lead singer, Bob Whelan,jeked that he \felt completely safe\ during An- gry Salad's performance, because there were more members of the security team surr<>unding the stage than there were concert- goers at that point. Angry Salad finished their set around 8:45 with a cover of the 80's classic \99 Red Balloons.\ Percy Hill was the next band to play, tak- ing tl1e stage around 9 PM. This was Percy Hill's second visit to Three Bands Play to Sparse Crowd Aaron '-''t:llll!'ll:l Samples lead singer Sean Kelly plays to a Memorial Fieldhouse crowd he alienated throughout the course of the concert. Union College; they first played here during Springfest '97 on a show headlined by The Pharcyde. Percy Hill played a strong 45- mimtte act as people filtered in dur- ing as the scheduled starting time carne. After Percy Hill concluded their act around 9:50, there was a lengthy break before the Samples took the stage. Finally, after more than 40 minutes, the Samples took the stage at arottnd 10:35. During the Samples· perfor- mance, lead singer Sean Kelly made numerous rcfercnct:s to the hurricane looming outside, andre- counted their tales of playing dur- ing Hurricane Andrew in Miami and numerous other run-ins with hurricanes. Kelly made it clear that he wanted the crowd to liven up, rhetorically asking the crowd whether or not this was a \fl' *** *g funeral par- lor.\ He and the other band mem- bers, by their own account, were haYing a good time drinking onstage, despite local laws prohib- iting it. Kelly also made references to the band's plans tu snlL>ke uftc-r the show. One anuny&nctlUS audi- ence member fotnlli KL·il 1 tu he \rude and obnoxious. w hirh took away from the atmos[>krc of the shmv.\ The Samples pby cd fort\\ o hours, with both ne1v <I~n.J old ma- terial. They played \l'nd.en\:ater People\ as an encore ~nd v.ere joined onstage by several ~tlcmbers of the remaining audience. According to C'oncL·n Commit· tee Co-chairman Jon l.~n1k '01. \the concert went nry \nl<.Jothly.\ According to Lemlc. there were no problems with secunt)' or any of the three bands. Lemle was, hm,tscr. frtistratl'd with the turnout He and tlw nther members of the concert c.vmmittee spent a great deal of time advertis- ing the event off-camP'us through radio ads and ticket t;ivea~.,~ys on WEQX 102.7 FM, advc1liising on other local camptlsot·~. ads in Metro/and and other \C!lues, in addition to on-campus a d,..C\rtisin Although Lemle was disappointed, he and the Concert Comrniittee \viii, according to Lemle, \Goon an ad- vertising blitzkrieg\ for t\he Octo- ber 17 George Clinton c!Omert. He will appear on the Union rollege campus, at the same v~rnue, Me- morial Field House Tiche t<> 1vil1 he available shortly. Bands Sit Down and Talk by Brooke M. Earylick Editor-in-Cilief Three excellent bands helped l 'ninn f'ollcgc beginthc academic yt·ar On Thur<;day. Scptemher 16. ThL· S,unpko.;, Pnt) Hill and :\n- gt) SJ JJd l'l\l fllllllL'cl Ill lhl• hdd House for hoth Fnion students and 1\)(31 residents ncforc the shmv, Crmmrdicm·i,\· had the op- portunity to interview \'arious llll\lll he I<., n f \.'ell h b.J I HI. Rhythm guitarist R(lh Somers of 111t' S.1111!'k' dP I nl 1 •ll t in fmm,1 tin n .tnd fJlh ,1buut thl' !,;ll'llP \\'l11k \IIIIIlf 111 the back nf the !Pur bus. he explained that the group's origi- nal rmmhns, Scan KL' lly and Andy Sh~..·ldl)n, hegan the h~nd ten yl'ar~ ago Musicians\ hL) have SIIKL' left thL' hand hecausc of creative dif- ft:l Clll:t'~ anJ pt:rsoilid Jjfft:ICIKt:S comprised the band for seven years. Three years ago new mem- bers Alex Matson,Sarn Young and Rob Somers joined tile band when the others left. Since then the group has released three records, includingadoublelive set and two Aaron SeligerffC Samples guitarist Rob Somers talks about upwming plans. studio recordings. The group is cunently at odds with their record com_pany and does not plan to re- lease any new projects until that dispute is resol\ed. Currently, the band is touring throughout the Midwest, East and South portions of the United States. They have played in pres- tigious locations in many cities, mcludmg the House o f R lues 111 Chicago and lrvmg Pla:id in ~ew York Citv Thev U~lla n .... [our for a \ - - month to six \\Ceb Jndth~o.·n tak,· thl' ~arne allllllllll of \Itll·t'dl \\\hen ;tc.,h·d .1h•trl t'tl ••r ~~·~n, ,f tllt·:r \'llt:' '-'•lflll'\ ~·· r l.trll•··l. ··[Iun.:;,, h.Jf'l'L.Il th.tt.;:• · • .. ~ ,.k.t· TJiking Ill pcoj'k j, .111 c.· ... ,,·lknt ~Olil~'l'. \\\Pllll'll Jl\.' t 1 :<..· I:L:Ill'-~.l> Of Jll ~ont;'' riling Rch1tlll1,hi('\ \\ ith Jll pcol'lc .Ill' .111 irn'j '!! ll;, 111\ S,JJ}ll'I'> ... .-llhlli ;h.~.. .:l1. :•, ....... '. ~' nntil1):;. \\\\c\\ c· i'Lt:. ·, 1 '' d· rr.:;••! Lrk·l .. :::. 1 ::·<. '' 1 • ' 111\ll llll',llb til.111 tiL· . i\! :.· 11:[. \Yc !tl\l' l'l'llolllll!ll,:'- i •'il l'c'·Tk Peopk .tl\\..1) ~ uHlll' ~,'l. ,t, \\'l· Jlc' Jclually mull\ t~f ~l !1•Lll m~ )'.Jthl than a 1;idru \llll' Bur. 111 .1:,· :1~<1 b!t!L'r ahuut that l>~..·~-.lli' l' .,, ,. sl'l hugL' gratific.lti\\11 lr •\111 t ''lll int: People smg a lung. th~y' ~upp\11 t our lifestyle. which is in1cn:d ih ly important to us ... He condudeJ, \'Th.. Jllll i~..·ncL' makes the ~ho\\. n1c ::-!D\' \1 i~ .til about l'IIL'rgy It'~ Jill inkn~c Co11tinued 011 pilfi!l\ .~

Campus Li:f'e Page 2 • September 23, 1999 •~JonaJ:rMen6i5 Security Incident Report Sunday, September 12 - Saturday, September 18 Sunday,September 12, 199~: Disorderly Conduct Substance Abuse (Drugs) Monday, September 13, 19·99 Suspicious Person/Larceny Criminal Misch.ief Larceny Life Safety Violation Tuesday, September 14, 19~9: Noise Complaint Public Lewdness Criminal Mischief Wedm~sday, September 15> 1 999: Larceny Thursday, September 16, 1999: Aggravated Harassment Life Safety Violation Larceny Friday, September 17. 1999: Driving Violation Property Damage- LarcenyNandalism Saturday, September 18. 1999: Disorderly Conduct 1 :24am.Chi Psi area. Altercation reported. Suspect identified. Conduct Charges filed. 11 :01pm. Terrace Wall Suspects identified. Conduct Charges filed. 1:1Opm Off Campus. Tumed over to Schenectady Police Dept. 1:50pm Fero House. Toilets plugged up causing damage. 3:1Opm Raymond North. Theft of items. 3:55pm Edwards House. 1 :3'0am Off Campus. AssistSehenectady Police Dept. 3:30pm .South Lane. S\lspect not identified. Schtinectady Police Dept. notified. · 11 :30pm Nott-Seward Parking Lot. Damage to concrete. Suspect Identi!ted. Condu<:t Charges filed. . 2:27pm Fieldhouse. Theft of equipment. 11 :07am Fox House. Unwanted telephone calls. 9:00amRaymondNorth. 1:11pm Psi Upsilon. Theft of loft from unlocked storage room. 1:05am South Terrace Lane. Suspect identified. Conduct Charges Filed. Various times and locations. Damage caused from storm. 4:30pm Off Campus. Vehicle broken inio and stereo equipment Stolen. ' .. i 1:35pm Bailey Field. Suspect identified. Conduct Charges filed. RITE AID PHOTO PROCESSING Go TO RITE AID· FOR ALL OF YOUR PHOTO NEEDS! WE ARE LOCATED ON VAN VRANKEN AVENUE (518) 382·3304 ' .. AnENTION STUDENTS AND STAFF COpies of the draft of the Mictdle States Report ore avaiial)le in tbe Student AGiivmes qffic:e ci\d at the Ci¢\llation Desk.in Schc:dfer Ubmry. The Middle States .. Steering Committee looks fo!'Ward to y~ur input •. Comments on the r:eports should .,e .directed to the co-chairs of the Steering Committee, Dean ChriStie $orl!m in Feigenba.u.m Hall (sorumc@union.edul or to Prof. Alan Taylor in the MathematiC$ Depart- ment in Boiley Hall (tayJora@union.edu). An ad hoc committee has been .formed to consider the tenurability of James Adda.n, Assistant Professor in the Department ofChemistry. The committee members are Brenda Johnson (Mathetnatics), Leslie Hull (Chemistry), Ann Anderson {Mechanical Engineering), and Adrian ·Frazier {English~, Chak. Any member Qf the campus community wish. . ing to offer written or oral testimony concerning Professor Ai:hian~s teach· · ing, scholarship or college service should contact Professor Fra:zi~ (6207, fraziera@union.edu) or any other member of the committee. An ad hoc committee has been. formed to consider the tenu:r.ability of Donald Rodbell, Assistant Professor in the Department of Geology. !he . committee tnembers are Ekram Hassib (EE/CS), Stephen Horton (Bioi· ogy),Kurt Hollocher (Geology), and Shelton Schmidt (~cono1,nics), Chair. Any member of t;he campus commuQ.ity wishing to offer written or ·oral • testimony concer:ning Professor Rodbell's teaching, scholarship or col· · lege seJ:vice should contact Professor Schmidt ( 6218, schmidts@uaion.edu) • or any other member oft:he·conunittee. . . An ad hoc COllltnittee has been fotUJ,ed to l;Qnsider the tenura:bility o.£ • Roset Khos:ropour, Assistant Professor in the Depar.tment of Physics. The · committee members are Seyfolla:h Maleki (Physics), David . Hemmendinger (EE/CS), Bonney MacDonald (English), aad Susan Niefield (Mathematics}, Chair. Any member of the campus community wishing to offer written or oral testimony concerning Professor Khosropour's !leaching, ~cholarship or college service should contact 'Professor Niefield (6163, niefiels@union.edu) or any other member of · the committee. . . . · An ad hoc corrunittee has been forme<l to consider the tenurability of Stephen Schmidt, Assista:IJt Professor in the Department of Economics. The committee tnembersare Janet Anderson (Chemistry), Clifford Brown (Political Science), Eshragh Motahar {Economics), arld Sigrid 'J{ellenter (Modern Languages), Chair. Any member of the campus community wishing to offer written or oral testimony concerning Professor Schmidt's teaching, scholarship or college service should contact Professor Kellenter IC6212,.kellents@union.edu) or anv other member ofthe committee. UNION. COLI.EGEPRE-LAW ADVISING IS NOW ON THE WEB Information on LSAT, The Application ~roce$5, Law.School Rankings~ the Personal Statement andTips on ' 1 gefling in\ to your thoi(e of low school. Hyperlink$ to KapiCJn, law School Admission Council, lnfemet Legal Resources Guide. .. Hy~rlink to Boston College LQCator. Just match your GPA and LSATwith the Low Schools. Just go to: http://wwwl.union.edu/,..weinert/prelawlindex.html for more information, call Terry Weii.ler, Pre-law Adviser, 388- 6066., Department of Political Science. -When to Apply? -Getting. references -Helpful Hints Ap;Divina to Law School Workshop -Where to Apply? -Taking the lSAT , September 23, Old Cltapel Career Dev.elopment Center, 4:3&PM , Call Professor Weiner, Ext. 6066formoreinformatlon l.E.F. DEADliNE The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foun.dation in two catego- ries-. studenHnitiated research projects and Neducationolly innovative projects\ is October 14, 1999. Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the written ap- proval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be sUbmitted to the Dean's Office ($100, Science & Engineer- ing Building)on forms avaiklblethere. · . Similarly, members ofthe College community who have \educationally inriova- tiveH proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Forms for Faculty Research Projects are also available in the Deem's Office (5100). ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~§~~~~~~~§~~~~~-~~~~~~~~d~bLE£~~~~~~~~~~-~~~ r: · · · about I.E. F., the guidelines. or the proposal deadline should be dir.ected to Margaret Dalton, Administrative Assistant to the OMn of Arts & Sciences. r•u.hlic Talk: Buddhis~ E~hics In th<..- tcach.ings or Huddhisrn, go{:x:J or bad actions arc dcf'ined .in terms. of whether they help or harn'l of·hci\S. By f'<>l h:lwi ng nlol:-al precepts and d'-.~vclopiug a con1p.assionate heart .. we advance cluJ· s.l·'iritual qualit'ies and co-ntribute to a harrnonious sociely. Frida_,. .. ., ScpL 24,. '1999.,. 7:30-9 ·ptn 1-lalc Hc:•use., l.Jnio'n College Sc hcnc;..\'Ctad~·~ Nc..,..-.v York .. <,~ug,:.;£\Sf<\'d l>o;rrat1on $I 0 s~r .udenr .... · adn'litf~>c/ f'r<:\'t!' - c~o-- s I\.)(')HS<. .. :!<.l by lJ n ion , .. allege Philosophy· r.>c.:parhl1cl'll and F:O.tst Asian Studies P'rogntrn ·--· -····-· When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50-85 per day. Transportation costs should also reflect fhe best rates available. Students who a replanning to do interviews musf'indicate that arrangements have elready been made. If your research includes workwith human subiects, then the proposal must have preliminary approvalfrom the Human Subjects ResearchCemmittee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Undergraduate Research. FACULTY RESEARCH DEADLINE The Faculty Dev.elopment Committee is now soliciting J)roposals for faculty research and scholarship activities. Applications C)nd guid'· lines are available in Dean Buttetstein's Office (S-100, S&El. The deadline for submission of proposals is October 14, 1999. Questions concerning 1he Facl!l1y Research Fund shoold be directed to Dean Butterstein. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem .rates are normally limited to $50-85 per day. Transporta- tion should also reflect tfle best rates available. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the pro- posals must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Re- search Committee bef()re it can be funded by the Faculty Develop- ment Con'utlittee. c Ilct ce frc - WI se] sti· of tio of Fa wi Sel ca.1 OB.' tuJ: Ur: 1111: Kr wb fur me .ceJ Uo up: ne< tlle wo is a the Un pie ha=' De, bet eql. Fo1 pre $5( yea be 1 u:pc: anc: De: strc.: W() by tecl c~r mo fee~ 'F Till Th:i ma.J an and COtl f< the we~ Hat are Le~ Zac: Ka1 COtJ yea tO!) the bee ofo p hun C<ltJ bee tbej tip[, wei l3

Campus News <n:.ouco:daitnsis• September 23, 1999 . • Page 3 College Procures Grants In Many Fields by HannaGaw- Contributing Writer Union College has bec::n fortu\' n~te enough to have recently re- cei,ved several generotts grants :frompiominent foundatioils, which wish to impart a piece of them- selves upon the legacy ()f the in~ stitution. Along with the millions of dcollars given by theseorganiza- tion:s is attended a certam degree of trust and belief in the .college. Fol.llldations are entrustin,g. Union with the capability of allowing it., se:if to become an even better edu- cational source for its students, one in which learning and .oppor- . tuni:ty prevail. Overthe las\tdecade Union has received mote than $.2.2 million in monies provided. by the Kresge Foundation of Michigan which, for 75 years, has granted funds for the development andre- modeling of facilities. From are- cellt contrib:t~tion of $500,000, Union College has be.en. able to up grade tl}.eir science ami engi- neering equjpmentto comply with tlle ever-advancing tecb.rtol~gical world. This generousendo\W:ment is accompanied with a challenge to the college. Over the course of the next year, Union must raise $1 rnilliCint-Q com- plete tbe grant. A simil~t award ha:s also been given to Union. Dedicated to the improvement ~d betterment ofscience labGtratory eq1.1ipment, the Shennan Fairchild Fo'l!ndation of Maryland :has also provided Union College with a $5()0,000 grant. For the ne:xt five years, the science classrooms will be re-equipped with advanced and u.pd~ted microscopes, teles.copes, and other needed lab materials. Dean Sorum commentecl on the strcng impact the new equipment W()uld have on the resear<Jb done by Union students. With these teclm.ol()gical advancements will corne the capability for pr()ducing more accurate and in <ie~th re- by Jess Audet Contributing Writer search results. An aspect of the college for which it is trulyproud, · Union continually participates in National Conference on Under- graduateResearch(NCUR)topro- Recently, Union College and mote the research and studies . 0 f Hobart William S:nrithO::>lleges to- its sm'4~nts. gether were awarded a $400; 000 Dedicated to providing ad- grant from The Andrew W. Me11on Foundation ofNew York City. The equate educational opportunities · for its diverse student body, Union grant was given to suppoti a new was given the chance to do so to a cooperative international studies greater extent with a substantial program between the two colleges. grant from th.<;: Henry Luve F oun- •. This grant will fund the expenses dationllnc.ofNewYork, NY. Over of researching possible locations $270,000 was awarded to the . fornew terms abroad, someoneto school in support of the East Asian head the program, and the devel- studiesprogram,p:rovidin.gmoney .· opment of new technologies, to for addition of a track in Chinese make up the interactive broadcast language, literature, and culture. The grant will be receivedover the • following four years, allowing Union to elaborate on the existing . East .Asian courses, to purchase . materials such as books, videos, and software, and to expand the Thurston House, a theme resi- dence on campus for those inter- ested in the further learnjng East Asian studies. · system and instruction, between the two colleges. Each institution willhave their own office with these communication technologies. With this, Union students will be · able to become acquainted with the Hobart and William Smith students . who will be traveling together be- fore they are out of the United . States. Professor Thomas, head of the international studies program here at Union, says, \There are two major advantages to the addition of this program. The first being, this will offer more opportunities for students to go abroad.\ If there is extra room in one ofour 17 dif- ferent terms abroad, students from Hobart William Smith will be pro- vided the opportullity to apply. And likewise, if there is extra room in any of Hobart and William Smith•s 22 termsabroadprograms, Union students will be able to go somewhere that is not currently of- fered. It is ;;1lso prop()sed to add three or fGur new joint abroad pro- grams over the next several years. \The second major advantage that this grant will provide is pre-pro- gram traiJJ.ing. There will be three students trained at e.ach campus who will work with students before they go abroad on the different cui~ tures and also help the students adjust when they get back from being abroad.\ In a sense, this program has al- ready started; this winter lOUnion students and 10 Hobart and Will- iam Smith students will be going to Chiapus, Mexico to studyecol- ogy and the environment. The Chiapus term abroad is through Hobart; but they did not have a faculty member to accompany the students, so Union's professor Garcia volunteered. In October, the Hobart students will be coming to here to meet the 10 Union students who they will be traveling to Mexico with. Two Union students will also be going to Los Angeles with the Hobart students to study filmmaking and the movie industry in the winter. The application process wiU be essentially the same, but profes- sor Thomas says, \I think that it will be easier for Union students to go abroad in the sense that we don't currently have a program in Chile, but Hobart does, so thepos- sibilities of Spanish speaking pro- grams goes up.\ He also says that they will be aiming for 50% Union students and 50% Hobart students participatilig in the new programs. Union has recently expanded its boundaries to encompass property on the western side of campus. . • With the aid of a$500,000 grantfrom, the Fred L. Emerson F ou:tidation; Inc. of Auburn, NY, the college has plans to ren.ovate and furnish houses and buildings in the pur- chased atea, to. be used for student housing and the creation of a com- munity center. The grant will sup- port ~e Union-Schenectady Initla~ tive (US!} program whose aim *s the restoration of Seward Place and the surrounding neighborhood. In honor of William Seward nine- Concert Series Opens by Alina Samuels Contributing Writer Yesterday Piano virtuoso Boris Berezovsky opened th~ 1999-2000 concert series at Memorial Chapel. His concert last night included . Rachmaninov's Chopin Variations, Chopin's Scherio No.3 inc-sharp, Op.39; Scriabin's Six Preludes, Op- 13; 6 Etudes,.Op. 42 and Prokofiev's Sonata No.7 in B flat, Op. 83. Bill Rice of The Daily Gazette de- .. scribed him as \a fabulous tech:ni- teenth century graduate of Union · for whom the targeted street was . named, a house will also be dedi- cated in Seward's name. Again, Union has been challenged to amass $1.5 million in additional funds necessary for the completion of the project. cian withtotalcornrnand ofhis in- strument.\ This distinguished pianist was bominMoscow, ~969. Berezovsky studied at the Moscow Conserva- tory of Music. Once he had won at the 1990 International Tchaikovsky Competition, he then played with several other Tchaikovsky winners in a world- wide concert telecast. Through- out his life he has played with or- chestras such as The Berlin Radio Symphony Orchestra, the Los An- geles Philharmonic, The Philannonia, The Royal Philhar- monic, The Moscow Philhannonic, and the Halle Orchestra. Berezovsky has released several CD's with Teldec Classic. He has also had the opportunity to work with renowned artists such as Michael Collins, Julian Rachlin, and Dmitry Sitkovetsky. He also has worked several times with criti- cally acclaimed violinist Vadim Repin. Ron Emery, ofThe Albany Times Union said, \Remember the name Boris Berezovsky as a musi- cal artist for the new century.\ Tomorrow, September 24, Berezovsky returns for the second international conce~ in the series with fellow Russian-born cellist Dmitry Yablonsky. This will be held at 8:00 in Memorial Chapel. Tick- ets cost $20 and $8 for students. Tickets are also available at the door at 7 PM. For more ticket in- formation on the Schenectady Museum-Union College 1999-2000 concert series please call372-3651. Three Visiting Bands Discuss Upcoming Plans feeling.\ Percy Hill joined The Samples on Til\lrsday night in the FieldHouse. Th:is was only one of manyperfot- mances that the group has played at Union. Aaron Katz, drwmner andvocalist, reminisced abo11t past C()ncertS here such as Sprin,gfest. Katz explained that members of the !>and met during their first few we-eks at the University ()f New Hampshire. Currently the members are Katz, Nathan Wilso11. John Le.ccese, ·Joseph Farrell and Z:acltary Aiken Wilson, ltowever K.a1z noted that musicians have come and gone throughout the ye~rs. When mentioning tile his- toryofthe band, Katz explained that the natne of the band originated because it is the name of the father ofotte ofthe former band members. Percy Hill plans to release anal- bum next year but they have not constricted themselves t() a date because they are concentrating on the:lr tour, which consists of mul- tipEe locations in the N ortlleast as well as in the Midwest. BDb Whelan, lead singer and guitarist for Angry Salad, ex- pressed the same sentiments about touring. \We've been extremely lucky in our endeavGrs because people support our band fervently. The roots of this band are in Boston and that town has been very gen.:. erous to \Us.\ Angry Salad came to fruition in 1993 at Brown University asa col- lege band. They played fraternity parties and their success. and tal- ent evolvedfrotn there. The group~ which consists of Alex Grossi, Hale Pulcifer, Brian Vesco and Whelan, has released two albums and has recentlysignedwith Blackbird, an extension of Atlantic Records. With the release of their new al- bum, entitled Angry Salad, the group is currently touring up and down the East Coast. The group holds shows at clubs as well as colleges. They recently concluded a tour with The Samples that extended throughout thew est- em part of the country. Ail.g:rySalad plans on touring until after New Year's Eve. ... continued from page 1 · ~ AaronSeligerrrc Angry Salad lead singer Bob Whelan discusses the origins of the name of the band~ )> \ When asked about the strange name of the band, Whelan replied, \We were at a bar before the band started and I was contemplating a name for the band. Suddenly a man yelled out from across the room, 'Call it Angry Salad.' I wasn't sure what it meant or who said it. I then realized that it was Freddie Mer- cury from Queen and I did not question his reasoning.\ Whelan later explained that their song ideas come from their life ex- periences and that their back- grounds come in handy. He re- called a song that he wrote about working in an adolescent psyche ward that was called \Saturday Girl.\ Whelan also stressed that he was the least talented musician and that the other members of the band m~ke his words into a song. Closing the interview, Whelau remarked, \We have worked really hard and hope to make it. We spent a lot of time on our last album be- cause we did not want to put out something that only had one good song. There are too many albums that are released that way.''

Page 4 • September 23, 1999 • Qtom:armensis Big Brothers/Big Sisters Be·gin Year by Kris1enZadourian Contributing Wl'iter Big Brotl!ters Big Sisters of the capital region have a pmgram on Union Co 11e..ge Campus. The club has 65 Uai:on students currently matched with young boysand girls from Schenectady and surround- ing cornrnt.Jnities, The cb.lldren are from disadvantaged hDmes and often don't have someone in their lives to go and play sp()tts, go to movies with, or to go get an ice cream cone with on a regular ba- sis. The big brothers and big sis- ters provide a steady force in these children's lrves and provide them with the opportunity to SJlend time one on one with someone. The club holds yearly trips and parties for all of .the children and bigs to come toge.ther and have some fun. These group events include Hal- loween par1ies, Valentine's Day parties, apple picking, and a trip to The Great Escape, among many others. Amy Slabich, junior and Co- president of the club, has been matched with her little sister, Latiesha, for almost two years. Amy became a big $istet because, \I always wanted yo11nger sib- lings, and 11ow I have one to spend time with and do fun things with.\ Amy has h&d the chance to watch Latiesha grow over the years, and through 1heir experience:s and time spent together they have formed a friendship that has changed both oftheii Hves. The first day Amy an<! Latiesha spent together they made a scrap- book in order to save all of the memories of their times together. Some activities they il.ave done together include going to hockey Courtesy Kristen Z~utou rian ·. Jeff Lieberman '(}0 spends the day with his little brother, Sean. games, movies, swimming, playing mini golf, the trip to The Great Es- cape, sledding, ice skating, a trip to NYC, a New Jersey Nets game, and trips to museums. Amy has provided Latiesha with opportuni- ties to go places and see things that she ordinarily may not have been a:ble to do. According hl Latiesha, she likes having Amy .as a big Sister because, \she gets t<> take me places and we get to d-o fun things.\ Although Amy tries to spend time with Latiesha two or three times a week, a few hours a week is all it takes to make a differ· ence. Jeff Lieberman, senior and co- president of the club, has been matched with his little brother, Sean, for two years. BBBS offers Jeff, \the chance to be around a kid one on one, and see his per- spective on his surroundings, and Sean makes me feel young.\ Join- ing BBBS has changed Jeffs ex- perience at Union. He has been able to get off campus and learn more about the area that Sean is from and the area that Jefflives in. Most import~tly says Jeff, '\we make a difference in each others lives.\ Their match is not a one . way relationship; o:ver the last two years they have become friends, each. bringing SOtP~tb:ing speci& to the relationshjp. Jeff and Sean have a Sunday morning ritual. On Sundays they go~to a clinerJn Scotia called ·Oliver·.~·. ''ihe~e they g~t ~-chance · .. to sit and talk over breakfast. Jeff did this wit:h·his parents-when he was young <.tng s~ys, \It is a good · segue irit6 ~pending the' day to.:. gether.\ Also~ because they are near the airport they are able to watch the planes take off and land during breakfast. Other activities that Jeff and Sean enjoy doing to- gether include mini golfing, IIlov- ies, the trip to The Great.Escape, going to the New Jersey Nets game, a picnic in Central Park, a.pple picking, and frisbee. Big Brothers/Big Sisters is not a hu~e time commitment. A few hours a week is all it takes to be a positive force in one of tbese children's lives. BBBS is always looking for new members and there is always a young boy or gitl eager to be matched with a big brother or sister from Union. Students Hypnotized b)/Gina CampaneUa Staff Writer This past Friday evening, the Comic Hypnotist de.sce11ded upon thirty ur:u;uspecting audience members in Memor-ial ChapeL The program began about il half-hour late, around 8:30PM, but it was well worth it The hypnorist began by giving a brief history of hypnosis while he. played the theme from the X-Files. He said that although hypnosis has clearly existed in all of recorded history. it first receive massive ammmt:s of attention 111 177 6. A doctor named Dr. Mezmer pub- lished a paper claiming that hu- mans were metallic like the Earth and that due to this duality they could be cured by magnetism. From this came the term \tomes- merize.\ He thel\ went onto list the three types of p,eop.Je that should not, under any circumstances be hyp- notized. This list included the defi- ant, the idiot, and the drunk. After a round ofthUI1derous ap- plause and laughter filled the room, the hypnotist went on to explain twq tests 1nat he would perform on the entire audience. The fbrs!I was to hypnotize one into believing that their fingers were so s wro,llen they could not be pulled apart. A few audience mem- bers got stuck and the hypnotist had to talk to each of them indi- vidually, including the guy in the back of the balcony! The thirty audience members who were chosen to go on stage were randomly giveQ the hypnotist's business cards as they entered Memorial Chapel. The stu- dents filed on stage and the hum<>r began. He began by asking the volunteers to relax and close tl1eir eyes. After a long period of beach sounds and mellow, monot<lne speech, tl1e volunteers appeared to be under. The hypnotist then continued to ask the volunteers to imagine tb:at various things were happening. First, he told them that a large in- dustrial fan was blowing their arms in circles. Next, he told them each that he had tied a string to their arm and on the other end of that string was the worlds largest he~ lium balloon. The students follght . to stay in their seats. Throughout the process the hypnotist would ask those students who were not successfully hypnotized to leave the stage. By the end quite a few students were still surprisingly successful! At one point one stu~ dent fell out of h.is seat and the hypnotist found the yearbook photographer in the .audience and borrowed her camera to snap a pic- ture. He declared that the photograph would \go in the yearbook ander the title \a**h*le.\ This show was definitely not one to be missed. One student expressed it perfectly when she said, \I laughed so hard I cried!\ . e Sa:nthagens/TC Cotfiic Hypnotist Michal!! Ray entertains the crowd. Student Forum Minutes Officer Reports: VP .of Administra.tion {Christ;- Weafer) ~cOC: 6 new clubs w~ntrecognition, need constitutional ~pprov:al (cheerleading, water-slciing, soccer club, enabled, rotaryclub, sytnp()sium sponsored club); minstrels want proper funding; met with Dean Alfotd. concerning U2K and will coordinate. meetiilg w.ith Student Forum for a Q&A session , VP offinance(Brian Roache)-Club President/Treasurer woiksn()ps are man- qatory{sign up in Student AetivitiesOffice) VP of Camplls Life (Paul Stewart-Stand)~full weeltend .ahead!: Samples con- cert, hypnoti:;;t,. Shakespeare theatre production, Fall Formal VP of AAC (D2nette Slevinski) -re-reviewing lunch schedule (plan to form subcommittee); prqposal to .change CS Dept.; prop()sal to i11stit!Jte campus- wide honor code; pass/fail and add/drop courses in effectnow(within first two weeks of classe:s), rnajor/minor(2) in effect fall of2(}00 (can <d'e~lare two mi- nors) VP of Multicultural Affuirs (Debbie PeUish} •multicultural meetings will begin next week (look for postetltimes); shock-t meeting, dinner <)/24 @6:30pm1Diwali show 10/23 Trustee (And.y M~rkowski} -Fr~shman elections eluting 7m/~ 111 week (tenta- tive) . . lFC{TomMcK.inney}plan to formulate subcommitt:eeconcemii1g rush/pledg- ing; parties .are to close at 2am but may get. pushed haole (latcer) in regards to ·newScheneOt:'\GY 1>rdinance PanHel {Megan O'Keefe-a:bsent, Jen Caruso) -rush:. infotrnal 7m week of winter term\ for l n.ights/formal :1st weekofspring term; bidst~> go outon 4/l, pledging for folbwing 6weeks (end 8th week) · THC{MelissaSullivan)-theme house week (6tll weelc) Class of2000fKaren D~;Vito}general senior email for annou..ncements, com- mencement id~as, etc. (U2000@union.edu); met with Pres. Hull concerning commencetneni speakers; Wednesday night (seniors) at VanDyke, Thursday night (senior) lit Chets; senjor wide capture the flag (7 111 wee~); Senior wine/ cheese at Nott:(tVV() weeks); in process of deciding U:pon fundr:aisers for Senior Class Gift Class of200l ( Steve Schuler)-want to give certifica1esto students who turn 21 . years to be used ~t Chets; Union College commercial.vans {llig brothers/big sisters)-dri vers need to have class c commercial license (statdaw), investigat- ing; inf01mal conversation with new Dean of Academic Computing (more integation) Class of2002(J lllie Wittekind) -possible booth athomec(}tlling to raise money; class-wide dinner in the works · Old Business: none New Business: Parents' WeeKend -schedules in Student Activities Office; ad inC()ncordiensis; spring parents~ weelcend 5/12\5/14 (same time as Prize Day,. SteinmetZ, etc.) Security-met with Bill Sickingerconceming incider~t on camp11s (during fresh- man orientati-Qn)~accusation of campus safety slowresponse a:nd asking Union student to helpo in chase; security should answer phone/respond quickly; be- coming too striict with students, taking social atmosphere away from College, need publicati()n <inwriting) concerning new rul~s, such as fines imposed when student is caugilt without \U nioil ID\ card; Schenectady police are allowed on campus Without security's approval; Student Forum will meet with Mr. Sicking~r at moeeting in few weeks to address any <juestions and/or concerns involVil'lg secmrity and role on campus CotnmitteeRetp()rtS (Erin Aloan): forum consul ants will meet to discuss goals for year; Banqllet dinner, Fri. 10/15 from 6-8pm; excelle11t trip to Camp Chingego()k · Announcemen1s: n()ne Motion to AdjtJtirn: ~econd; meeting adjourned at 7:51pm Acto.rs Improvis.e Shakespeare byEri11Conolly Stilff Writer On Satunlay at 2:30 the Boot- strap Players presented the com- plete works ofWilliam Shakespeare in Jackson's garden. It began a half an hour after tbe starting time, but they stiH managed to cover a col- lection <>f W<{)['ks that took a life- time in aboutoae .hour. How was this done? Well, the Bootstrap Players are made up of three highly talented actors who present the many plot themes of each ofShales}Jeare's plays in a humorous way .. The sparse cmwed ranging from President Hull and his family to students who just hap- . pened to be pas-sing by were cap- tivated by perf()rmances which both fascinatelt them and cast a new light on the works of Shakespeare. One student commented that \It was great to s;ee what is normally over-analyze<lpresented in a fash- ion that makes Shakespeare's works someth.i11g you would think about reading not just because its on the Freshmen Precept sylla- bus.\ From the rn<Jrnentthe curtain on the stage mov.es,, all that surround - the Bootstrap Play-ers was coated with humor and spray string. Even their program illustrates their non- conformist audited with biogra- phies of a whimsical feel, which dis- cuss a range of their other personal talents SU:<:b as roles in indepen- dent films to bartending skills. The Bo<Jtstrap Players present a three-man play that lacks anything common ()f accept.ed by the audi- ence, of capital region birth they have had40 succes.sful region per- formances since 1996. Tom. Brennan played the skipper and is the founder and manager of the Bootstrap Players. When asked ab<>ut the perfor- mance he stated, \ It's really a show about three guys trying to get through every pla.y Shakespeare ever wrote, with cross-dressing bad fencing and general miscon- ception of-what Shakespeare is all about\ (Metroland, April22, 1999). The re~t of the: cast included Parker Cr<>ss who,J?layed the Little Buddy and doubles as their pub- licity guy ,and Mat'k Salocks, who played the Profess>Qr. Overall, the Bootstrap Players are an act thatdoes not come along every day and tak-es Shakespeare to a new lev.el . . . . ~ ••

Advertisements <trm:u:urbien$illi· • ·september 23, 1999 • Page 5 IT'~S SHOWTilVIE! ~astering The Ar-t 0£ Being Intervie\\'ed A· w-orks bop -to polish your intervie\\ skills Friday Sep-t. 24th 3-5:30 pttl. Old Chapel by John B_ lVlolidor, Ph .. D .. CEO/President-Professor and Assistant Dean lVIichlgan State University College ofHuman lVIedicine Free RefreshiDeB~s!! Space Linai~ed-Regis~er in Advance (X\6300) Sponsored by Health Profession Programs & Pre-Health Socie1:y Funded by Lloyd ::Mayer, ~D .. '73 In every industry, the performers are the key to the performance T~e a,ny en'Vi.ronment. front the .most simplistic to the most adv.lnctd, and you'll notke one coxnmon thread. ~ple. They're the k~y to mc:c~s, discovery. to the furore itself. At Ht:Witt, we'w: been putting people fust fot dtcadts. Of t()urse, that's ()u..t bu.sines!i. Were a global WD.$ult:lng .firm s~cializi:rig in h11It.Wl res<>urce wlutionJ;. We've ~rome an industry leAder by t:teating a ail~ tlru eli.t:<>urages teamwork, illJlovative thlnling and pmo~al gro~'th. What ~oes it m~.m for yo11? Imagint reachfug yoW\ potential. Toll QI1 do-.it .at Hewitt. Majors th.rt haw:; t:ramdonally been. suoces~ful in uur 4Jrg;wizadon: Accounting, Actuorr.ial Science. Ccmputer Science, :Eronomiu. Firumce, Libenl Arts, Math, MIS, <11:\ Satistia. lf yon would like ta applyfor ii position, -m: moo~ you to submit ymrr mnmeon-lin:c. lrut you can. also send it ria f.n •. Pl~ indlcue yotll' goographk area ofintex.est. 'l'o linbmit on-line Please visit our ~h !ite at www.hewitt.'(DJD. Find the po-sition you're in.tert$ted m md fol- ' low the imtmctiollS for ~l}'ing onwline. To m.bmit <t.hard copy F.u: }DUE' ~lerts\lmeto 8-f7-i71-7017. A \s~li:\ rnume bas stmda:rd fonu, plilil text, l.Dd is without bu11~t5 an.d liri.ts. At 'Hewitt AJisodate.s, we ~~ tespoett, md Y.llue the dherse qw.lities .and backgrounds Ol.tr .liSSociates.hring t() the fum. o111d a.te W1D.- mitted to utilizing the richn5S of knowledge, ideas. md uperlmce our di'fe:rsit:y providts. Hewitt is m equal opportlm,ity tlilployer. . \

Page 6 · September 23, l999 · aronrormeusis Honorable Actions Union College upholds a reputation of a strong institution of higher · education. Through its rigorous academic offerings and challenging ;programs, Union has the privilege to attract and select students that . demonstrate outstanding qualities both in and out of the classroom. Upon matriculation, each student receives a handbook in which the policies and procedures of the College are explained. Students also ac •. quire an updated copy of this bool< each subsequent year they are .enrolled. The Student Handbook for this academic yeat, published by the Dean of Students, clearly defines the desired goal of academic integrity that is pursued by the staff of the College and should be upheld by the student body. Page 66 of the Handbook explains, \Academic dishonesty is a denial of those very purposes and ideals for which the College stands: personal integrity, independence ofthought, critical understandi,ng, and responsibility for one's own work.\ However, in many instances the aforementioned standard is disre- garded because students at this College utilize various tools as aides in completing their academic assignments. These range from old notebooks and homework assignments to crib sheets and plagiarism. At a college such as Union that exemplifies high caliber programs and ,rigorous course ·of study, some might be surprised to learn of cheating because, for various reasons, they would not employ any of the meth- ods listed above. However, for others, cheating is part of their daily routine and they l:ltilize it frequently. The handbook notes these inci- dents of\plagiarismand other forms of academic dishonesty do occur.\ The Handbook subsequently elucidates its procedures against cheat- ing, noting that punishments for offenders range from failure in the assignment to expulsion from the College. However, these policies are not issue-specific, nor are they definite as to which punishment applies to which offense. This policy should change. Union College needs to take a stronger stand against those who vio- late the integrity and goals of the College. Cheating, regardless of its severity, should not be tolerated in this institution. One option that has been suggested is an honor code. Although this pmposal promises to eliminate cheating incidents, it might not be the optimal solution for the College in the immediate future for two reasons. The first is that students will not instantly be comfortable with an 11onor code. Many will not understand the parameters of the policy, which could cause more problems. Secondly, with an honor code system, the role of professors as proc- · tors ofexams would be diminished, which would add undue pressure to already burdened students. Moreover, students should not have to po- · lice each other during exams or class because their concentration should center on learning. We need an active plan now that willnotonly deter cheating but also punish those who are caught. Cheating is inappropriate at an institution that maintains high academic standards for both admission and for con- tinued tenure at the school. Professors and students need to work to- gether to establish policies that will encourage honesty and integrity in the classroom. Although the honor code is appealing, it c!Ull1ot be imple- mented immediately. We need some sort of transitional solution before we can impose an honor code on students. BMB Letter Policy & Disclaimer Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP/. ED page and must be received by 5 PM the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words · and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. OPlJ!b' '-··- (,·-~ .. ·--~ . ... ... -:S:~ House Republicans Res·pond to Cleme,ny Offer by MichaelS. McGuire Copy. Editor In the United States Co!i,stitution, Article II, Section 2, Paragrap-h 1, it states: \[The President] shall have Power to Grant Reprieves and P11.rdons for Offenses against tll.e United States, except in Cases of Impeachment.\ President Clinton bas gone against the wishes of the majority of Americans and offered_ clemency to sixteen members of a violent Puerto Rican independence group. Despite outspoken criticism by many, in.cluding likely Senate candidates fromN ew Y v&:Rudolph Giuli~ni and Hilary Rodham- Clinton, his own wife, Clinton has refused to withdraw the offer. It seems the only individua.ls in favor ofhis decision are Pllerto RicatlS. There is no excuse for his action. The criminals were co11victed and sentenced after a.triall>y jury. In fact, Clint-on has even gone against the rec()mmendations of the Justice Department, tl!e FBI and the BureauofPrisonsin 'his offer. I fail to see any justiftcatio:n for his action and the only response he seems to offer is his ()Wll opinion that the offenders • sentences are too long. In response to his acti()n, House Republi<:ans have decided to con- ducta congressi<;tnal inv-estigation into the clemency offer. They in- tend to subpoena key officials in the Justice Department, FBI and Bureau of Prisons so that Repre- sentative Oan Burton, R-Indiana, can have it on record. He bas al- ready subpoena¢d records of de- liberations that· lead to the delll- ency offer. Cheryl Mills, White House deputy counsel, wrote to Representative Burton; \Pursuant to the Constitution and the sepa- ration of powers doctrine, tb.e President's authority to grant clem- ency is not subject to legislative oversight\ (New York Times, 9-17- 1999). She is entirely correct. Congress has no authority here. The Presi- dent is not legally bound to justify his offer of clemen.cyto any branch of gove~ent,. be it Federa:l, State or Local, nor to need he justifY him- self to the Ame:rican people. The argurnentcanbe made, and I would agree, that he should inform the public as to why he is making this offer that s<> obviously goes agaillsttheir wishes (he is, after all, an elected official), however Con- gress' action is dearly just another move by Republicans to tarnish the President while wasting time and American tax <IDllars. The only con- stitutionally correct action that Congress could take would be to impeach the President, and this is most certainly n.ot an impeachment worthy offense, if it is an offense at all. I fully acknowledge the opiniom of some that this is all intertwinecl. with Mrs. Clinton's Senate bLd. They believe that the Pr-esident made the offet to win her the PuertC> Rican V()te in lower New Y ork.Jm. fact, it is interesting to note thai; Mrs. Clinton supported the clem- ency offer initially, .and when the overwilelming backlash by the nort-Pllerto Rican New York v:otM ing pttblic was felt she had no choice but to .reverse her positiom. If this scenario is tnle, and it is cer- tainly believable, then all President Clinton need do i~ retract his offer ofdemency as the Am,erican ptib- lic., Republican andDemocratalik:e, so strongly wish him to do. The President has shown mo sign <Jf w.avering hi hl~ positi()n, however, and so we must face the u.nfo11tunate reality: convicted criminals who admittedly are part of an .organization t:hat is respo.n.- sible for the deaths ofmany imo- cent Americans will walk free . Gr~ted,. they were not convicted of any crime that resulted in tile loss of life. Grantedalso, howe:ver, they were convicted, and should serve their sentence unless it is overtur11ed on appeal. Regardless ofwh~ther the President is right or wrong,.ltowever, the House ofRep.., resen1atives has no say in the is- sue, and_ ~hould Stop wasting ()Ull time and money. 9:~ /l Tqny Branch . · Director ·of.the British Ameri<:on Drama Academy wiU be here on Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a ·· · submission belong to the Editorial Board. AU le~ters · · ~~~--~-~-~Q.M~J 1 ·• ...J!,tl ~ '' :- ~-- p. ,. '~ ' . ~4\.. at---L=-<2~---.L.!. ____ .. ~!.----:---- 7~~~-I.wrA:.~-'-\Z ~ · must be sig~ed and saved on a high density disk~ although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not· necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Boant. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the. Editorial Board, and of no one member in particular. Any opinion columns or cartoons reflect the opinions of the writers or artists, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board. Concordiensis is printed by World Media, 1104 CentralAvenue,Albany; NY, 12205. He will be happy w meet with students interested irn BAOA's. programs: \1 The London•-Theat\re Progrc:un Presented in association ·with Sarah Lav,rence College at Reg~nts Pork l-ondon · 2 The Mi:d:sul'n'Jne.r io Ox:ford P~~\\C~grc:arn . . ·• Presented with The Juliiard School and UCLA Cit BatHol College, Oxford . 3 The Shalc::e~pecare Prc:Jtgrall\r'il . . Presented in Ciss.ociatlon with Skidmore College in Stratford-upon-Avon · and in London VVhere appl.icable 4 ln'troduc:tia., 'I'd Fi lrn Progra....-. Advanced Film Progran11 Present-'E!d by the British Ameri.ca n Film Academy (BAFA) in association with Vassar College All WELCOME 0 tlu sb.i do ag1 gr1 .tluJ ev1 tu.~ ize Th ad Iik tlu Wl to~ ha1 be: wl1 ill€ mt v:e1 In lk do COl me stu da. th.~ the be1 W2 po pu un an liv po a I m1 po im fet (N pll ffif ab of Ull W< pil t01 N( qu pu ne G1 d(J kit de p<l to ev ab a11 fa~ ti:'. If of g< a!l or \\

OP/rED\\'' The Games We Play . · _ · -· · · - · - lmow your secrets. People would to h()ok up with them! No rela- . · byGinaC~paneU~t rather stay single than possibly .tionship is worth missing an op- Staf!Wnter have anything meaningful. Why? portunity like that! (Insert s~casm At Union College, it is clearltltat tlte assumed piruiacle of re.latiion,.. ship suc:cess is the drunken, ran,. domhook-up. Atfrrst~ your avter- age freshman thinks this idea is great, all the perks withoutan,;y of that pesky cornnritment stuff. Hs:Jw- ever, some of fuose freshmen even,. tu.aUy do grow up when they rreat:- ize just ho~_ sma:Il campus is. Those students who do choose to acknowledge their maturity a:mla:ct like adults are usually the couples th.at have been together forei!er. When said ccuples are in puiJlic together, whether they are holding hands, or showing any sign ofso- ber affection someone, always, without fail says, ·~gh ... they make me wan,tto puke!\ Why is thai!? I must admit that, on occasion, that v:ery phrase bas escaped nw bps. I must also say that i honestly be- lieve this nausea has nothing to do with the unfortunate targeted couple. It has to do with the al-- most unanimous immaturity ofthe student body when it comes to the dating game(s). If anyone feels that they are aa·exception and that they never play games with mem- bers of the opposite sex, let me - 1 have come to the following con- here,) elusions: 4) At Sunday morning \brunch 1) Fear. Plain and simple. Fear no one cares about how you hung <1fhtirling someone you care about, · out with your boy:fi:iend/glrlfriend fear of getting hurt. This usually ·last night. Everyone wants to hear is. a result of a lack of trust in your about how wasted everyone was potential love interest and a lack and who ended up doing a walk of ()f trust in yourself. This is prob- shame. (I find the title wa.lk of ably the m:ost legitimaJe reason I ~·hame to be really ironic, Ifpeople can think. of. lfelttheneedto have were really ashamed, they at least one legitimate reasonjust wouldn't come home and an- so people de realize thatlam aware nounce it to all of their ~riends that there are many exceptions out looking for praise and approval. there. . Hey this is the opinion section, 2) ·Peer pressure. I know, that deal.~ soun~s really lame, but we all se- These are all the reasons I can cretly know it's true, Who gets think ofrightnow. Likeh<Jid be- more respect, the guy who hooks fore, I am aware of the fact that lip witha.different girl every night, ther~ are those exceptions tc these or the guy who has a girlfriend? condusions out there, hut the How about the guy who is able to overwhelming majority fitsthe bill. get away with cheating on his girl- . I enjoy hearing the brunch report friend? (Not to mention the fact just as much as the next person, that a girl irt this same position but 1 have to admit to myself that would be bnindeda slut. .. but I can its getting old. Did I mentkm that write another whole column on I am only a sophomore? So, I am that, so lets not get .started!} challenging all of you hocker-up- 3) The grass is always greener. pers cut there to assess tb.e real Single people have the life! After state of your happiness. If you all, what ifMatt Damon or Jennifer findtbat you truly are happy with LoveHewittwalksintothenextfrat your mile long list-o-boys/girls party you are at? If you have a then I really have nothing left to significant other, you won't be able say. With My Daily Bread Comes My Weekly Walk ·by Irene Kan Contributin~ Writer For everyone, but directed to- wards Christians. Purpose. For us to have a pur- pose, we have to know what God's purpose is forus, His c;;reation. By understanding God's purposc;!s,.we are able to hon()t God and live ()ur lives in pursuit of true, eternal tpui\- pose. Why is it necessary to have a purpose? 1, being the created, must know what my Creator'spur- pose is for me in order to live. For instance, at the 1999 NationalC()n- ference ofUndergraduate Research (NCUR), two Union students ex- plained their engineering project to me. They designed a car which was able to \blow out\ a ~andle oit top of a piano bench without falling. ()ff, under a time constraint. The car was able to sense the edge ofthe piano bench and reverse if it got too close. The purpose of the NCUR car was to fmd the camdle quickly and 'blow it out. The- car was designed and built for that purpose. Likethe NCUR car, I :also need to know my purpose. What if I do not want to fulfill God's purposes? What ifi wa11t to do my own tiling? Ah, free will kicks in.. . Tile created is alvwa.ys designed to fulfill the creator's ;pm- pose. lf the created chooses not to fulfill its creator's purpose, in- evitably it will misuse and even abuse its talents and functions-- and if not stopped, the created will fall into a meaningless, degerueta- tive spiral unto death. Take the NCUR car, for instance: Ifthe cargoes haywire andzo10ms off into the Rochester preserves to go mountain-,trekking, it willdam- age itself-· perhaps lose a w:heel or two, shock its system and tuin \. . its electrical connections-it sim- ply was not designed to mountain~ trek. MoUntain-trekking was npt the car's intended purpose! HoW- ever, ifthe car did what it was sup- posed to, it would have used· its design to accomplish its purpose, without bringing any harm unto it- self. For myself, I know that I want to Iillow what my purpose is. I can then ask, \What is God's purpose for me?'' Once I know God's pur- pose, then I can live my life to serve that purpose. So, I ask, what is God's purpose for me? From the Bible,. it is apparent that one of God's purposes is to fill the earth with His own glory. \The heavens declare the glory of God; the skies proclaim the work ofhis bands. Day after day they pour forth speech; night after night they display knowledge\ (Psalm 19: 1,2). All creation sings the glory of God! When I realize how awesome our llodies are so intricately designed and how diverse and beautiful the earth i:s, I cannot help but give })raises to God. The amazing thing about life is that creation is forman! God created man in His own im- age. Man'sdominiotiover~arth is an imaging forth of God, who has . llltimate dominion. Man is privi- leged ~o be chosen as the image- llearerofGodAlmighty! Man was given this gift to reflect God's glory. · Therefore, God's purpose in cre- ation was to fill the earth with His -cwn glory (John Piper). If God's purpose is to fill the earth with His own glory, then our ;purpose, as God's image-bearers, is to reflect'God' s attributes-. His unconditional love, His faithfulness, His hutrlility seen through His descent to earth as Jesus Christ, and His holiness, etc. Paul \s exhortation to the Corinthian church, ::so whether you e2t or drink, Ol' Whatever you do, do it all for the glory of God\ (I Cociathians 10:31 ), is a challenge to me and to all people wh()claim ~esus as Savior and Lord ()f their lives. If everything I am todo is to honer God, then shouldn\t I be more aware of what I watcl! <>n TV, what llisten to on the radio~ how I treat others and the activities I choose to participate in? :It is not easy living a holy life. It is not easy going against social norms. Nobody said the Christianpursuit ofholiness would be easy. Sc Lord, 1 pray for strength, for discipline and for encour~gement to glMifY you in all that I d(). Show me what in my life does no1 bring you glory. I want to live my life with true, eternal purpose_ And Lord, keep me accountable- because now that I know one of your manypurposes-holdme to my responsibilities as a Ctmstian to live a life worthy of your name. G()4' s purpose is for Cllristians to reflect His glory in everything they do. Because of this lmowl- edge,. I now have a purpose. I trust that I will be blessed wita peace knowing that lan1 in pursu:it ~ftrue, eternal purpose. If, however, I chocse to reject fulfilling qod's purposes, then I am on my way down a path that will lead to de• struction. All Christians have to decide which path they are ort and which path they need to take. If we truly realized what our salvation meant, then 1 believe we would ~boose the tight path. Let us also-remem- ber that God knows our hearts and wiHhonor and bless our efforts to be a people who will reflect His glory. ~on:co:rlrien.sis • September ZJ, 1999 · Page 7 A Message From Safe Space It was not your fault. It doesn't matter what you :said or wore. ·.It does not matter if you were friends with or dating your attacker. It was not you who acted inappropriately. You are not alone;. There are people who are wUiing to help. . It's okay :to feel depressed, sc~tr~d and angry. · Just don't give up .. Don't give your attacker the satisfaction. Don't let him win; Safe Space knows that rape happens at Union and that's why we are a confidential supportgroup for victims and caring friends. Safe Space is here to listen. Safe Space Beeper: # 1-800-283- 2255 pin: 1134~ CIIo:ncnrbi.ensi& The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper http:J/concordy.union.edu Bfooke M. Barylick- David C. Erooks, Jr. EDITORS-IN-CHIEF Jaime Lapine . EXECUTIVE EDITOR Elisabeth Kidder OPINIONS EDiTOR Jim DeWan NEWS EDITOR Rachel Bukowski ·SPORTS EDITOR L{)ri Greene :Kimberly Rohback &£EDITORS · Kaelyn South PROMOTIONAL MANAGER Sloan Miller AatonSeliger PHOTO EDITORS Erika Manetilli EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Sloan MillEr SCIENCE& rECHEDITOR Neil Routmu WORLD NEWS EDITOR MichaelS. MeGuire COPYEDT10R Danielle Devine Amanda J:adt~{)n ADVERTISEMENT COORDIN.A10RS Eugene Scl111ltz: FEATURESJJDJTOR Scott Scullio11 FACULTY .AJJVJSOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Shannon Conaty, Calvert Crary, Elizabeth Daigle, .Jennifer MacD{)well, NicoleSanthagens, Rebe<ea Walsh. , STAFF: Matt Aronowitz, Jeffrey Ausfeld,. S1eve Ayers, Jessica . Brearton; Gina Campanella, Lisa Carbone., l'llilip Cho, Heather Clemente;, Erin Connolly, Mary Felton, StephenFl~llerty, Peter Flynn, Matt Gendron, David Gruner, Courtney Hayden, Deri~Har•ington, Mike ·Iger, Clark Jones, Jcm Kelson, Stephen N ernetlt, Brian Roache, Steve Sc:huler, Kate Schmidt, MarkShemel, Adam-PalllSmolak, Rory Stern, Jess Stephens, Lee Stevens, Jon Tapper, Bria11 Terlinsky, Charles Tuthill, Jessica Zuehlke.

' · Septemb.er 23, 1~99 · Quake Rocks Taiwan: 1,500 Dead, 4,000 Injured by Stephen Nemeth Staff Writer A 7.6 magnitude earthquake struck Taiwan early Tuesday morning at 1:47AM leaving death and destruction in the epicenter county of Nantou and in nearby town ofChung Liao. More than l ,500 people are ·known dead and ()Ver 4,000 are injured and thou- sands more are believed to be trapped tmder the rubble. Reporters on the scene described the situation as \extremely dire\ as rescuers dug frantically for survi- vors. Damage at the scene was extreme. When asked to relay the ~itua.tion to viewers at home, CNN's Mike Chinoy simply said, ''There's just nothing left.\ Chung Liao and other towns in central Taiwan were reporting that they were without running water, electricity, and phone service, and that food supplies were limited. All ofthe citizens of Chung Liao, even the few that still had homes camped 'Outside for fear of after- shocks that at timesreached a 6.0 magnitude. Hospitals in the region were quickly ()Verwhelmed as thousands of wounded flooded the few .hos- pitals in the region. In Nantou a sports stadium that was spared from the destruction became both a shelter and an emergency clinic. Travel to and from the affected region was made difficult by the severe damage that occurred to many of the region's bridges and roads. A reporter remarked , \Long augry gashes have been cut in many highways. Travd is very difficult.\ In Taipei, little damage was evi- dent as the airport was open, roads were clear and tl;i.e city was. calm. Taipei Mayor Ma Ying-j.eou re- ported that at least four people were confirmed dead and 40 per- cent of the capital's power had been restored. Dozens were feared dead in the center ofthe city where a l2-story the rubble andpulted many from the twistedhu-lk:.a:ndrubble. One woman pulled: .fnm the rubble urge<;i rescuers to intensify their efforts. \Hurry rescue people . They're inthere. They're in.side. I lived on the ninth floor, but now it's the fourth noor .\ The may.or als<1 stated that schools and gov·ernment would be closedon Tuesda.y_ The gov(;:m- lll.ent also said financial markets Taiwan radio described the ea~quake as the stro11ges~ one t<l hit the island in more than a de- cade.. A 7.8 magnitude quake hit the island in approximately th-e same r~gion on November 14 1 1:1, 1986, kilfing 15 and injuring 44. Taiwan's positien on the ge.fJ- logic \Ring of Fire\ subjects it.t~ dozens .of earthquakes each yearl although most do relatively littLe damage. ~aiwan has retrofitteod Reporters on· the !scene described the situation as \extremely dire\ as rescu- ers dug frantically for sz~rvivors. Dam-. age at ~he scene was extreme. · When asked to relay the situation to viewers at home, CNN's Mike Chinoy simply said, \There's just .nothing left . ., hotel collapsed. Earlier in the day, the top of the structure leaned dan- gerously to the right as the bottom floors collapsed. Later, flames engulfed the building. During this same time in the Taipei suburb of Hsinchuang, 50 people and l 00 were injured as a 12-story apartment collapsed onto a neighboring five-story structure. Rescuers dug frantically through would remain dosed until further notic.e. .f:daho Gcvernor Dirk Kernpthome~ ·nead: of a trade de:l- egation, said he was on the t()p story of Taipei's 25 story Grand Hyatt during the q11ake. \This was absolutely the most violent thlng imaginable. Many, many people are feeling em'()tionally sickened by this.\ most of its buildings for eartb~ quake safety but preventative mea'\\ sures failed in a quake of sudt magnitude as Tuesday;s. Rescue teams from around the world, including many of whom assisted in the Turk's quake, left for Taiwan to help. Taiwan Presi- dent Lee Tung-hui flew by heli- copter to Taichang, the natioa's thild largest ~ity, to assist with the regcue oper!J;tion and ordered the military to assist in the operations. . Chii1ese President Jiang Zemin expressed concern over the situa- tio.n in the .island. Chinese .press put away their usual \rebel prov- ince\ rhetoric: to publicize the di- saster and to empathize with the plight of the Taiwanese, \We ex- press our utmost concern over this major disaster,\ Ch:i.n.a's official Xinhua news agency quoted Jiang as saying. \We are willing to prp- vide all possible assistance to re- dllce losses from the earthquake disaster.\ Jiang -also further re~ marked, \compatriots of the two sides are as closely linked .as flesh and blood. The catastrophe and ag;ony of our Taiwan compatriots influences the hearts of all Chi- nese .. \ The Chinese Red Cross also pledged to provide up to 827,000 yuan (US $1 00,000) in disaster aid ancl up to 5·00, 000 yuan (US $65,000) in relief supplies. President and Mrs. Clinton re- marked on the quake and said it ~•saddene~\ them. They also pledged their assistance to the is- land. \We are in tou.ch directly with the Taiwan authorities to de- te:rmine what assistance from the U:nited States may be needed.\ US Geological Survey scientists commented on the damage posed by the hundreds of aftershocks that have hrt the region in the past few days. \When you have aftershocks of this magnitude, many of the buildings that were weakened in the main shock could be brought down by these strong aftershocks.\ Y eltsin Could Again Maneuver for a Successor by Dan Kirsch Staff Writer Russian President Boris Yeltsin is now once again beset by rumors that he is either about to resign or fire his chosen successor. Vladimir Putin, whose premiership is still i11 its infancy, is considered the strongest candidate. Consider- ing that we have only heard bad news lately about Russia-the re- cent Islamic·bombings in Moscow, allegations of money laundering in Y eltsin' s Kremlin, and the contin- ued deflation of the ruble·- Yeltsin may now choose to withdraw his support from the formerspy~mas­ ter Putin and anoint a new Would- he President. The rumors must be pardoned, as this is how most of Russian news is now spread, due to the bias inherent in virtually every Russian llCWS S()Urce. President Y eltsin' s allies control some sources but so do his foes. A very prevalent rumor, though, 1s that \'eltsin is about to both re- ~ign and appoint former General Aleksandr Lebed his preiT).ier, thereby lining himself up for the presidency. In a scheme worthy of the best of political chess-masters, rumors abound that Yeltsin will soon fire Putin, hire Lebed, and resign on or aroundGctober 19, two months before the December 19 parlia- mentary elections. According to the 1993 constitution, the Prime nalized or disq11<.tlified from p<tr- ti cipating in the election.s. Yeltsin' s principal foes, then~ would be virtually locked out ()f either one instiution or the other~ leaving them 11ecu paralyzed in the In a scheme worthy of the ·best of political chess-mas- ters, rumors abound that Yeltsin will soon fire Putin~ hire Lebed, and resign on or around October 19, two. months before the December I 19 parliamentary elections. Minister becomes acting prcsiqent for a maximum of three months, wherein a presidential election must be held. Mid-October is the latest date any candidates can pull out of parliamentary elections without their party list gc;tting pe- new power structure that would unfold. Public Enemy Number One is tlte coalition headed by former Prime Minister Y evge-ny Prirnakov, M()scow Mayor Y:uri Luzhk.ov and his oligarchic sup- porters, an alliance of the dicta ::to- rial regional governors, and the Agrarian Patty that was· oil..ce thought to be an appendage ofthe Communist Party. Primakov is to head the list of the Fatherland..,AU Russia-Agrarian bloc, but only as a means to head what will be the most powerful party in parliameat heading into the scheduled presi- dential elections next June. He is now considered the most popula:I politician in Russia, and the only of Yeltsin's former premiers that is not still loyal to him. Under this purported plan, nei• ther Primakov nor Luzhkov-a possible presidential aspirant him- self.-. would be able to run fl>r president in the elections that would be held at the same time a:.s the parliamentary elections. They would be constitutionally locke<! into the parliament and out of th:e Kremlin) leaving the door wid.e open for General Lebed, who is not participating in the parliamentary elections, and would at that pl>int be the incumbent acting president If one of them did in fact decide t\() completely abandon the party list and disqualify it in favor of run- ning for the presidency, they I1L11 the risk of losing the election via a fixed vote or broad support for then-President Lebed. · Kremlin spokesmen deny virtu- ally every aspect of this extremely detailed rumor~ whiGh seems to nonetheless have more credence than the simple \state of emer- gency\ rumor that would have placed Prime Minister Putin in a JH1Sition to accede to the presi- dency without an election due to the war in Dagestan. Other foes who would be marginalized as far as the presiden- tial and parliamentary elections go are the Communists, now weak- ened by the Fatherland-AU Russia- Agrarian alliance, which seems to he gobbling up support from the c-enter-left and nationalist camps; the Liberal Democrats, led by a x.enophobic yet expapsionist and aa tionalist ·politician thought )Nidely ·thought to be a madman; Yablok,o, led by liberal economist Grigory Yavlinsky, and. now j<lilied by recent Y eltsin terminee Sergei Stepashin; the 11 0ur Home is Russia,\ formerly the Party of Power, that was and is led by Yeltsin '.s former Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin; and the Union ofright-wi.ngForces, led by former premier Sergei Kiriyenko and deputy premier Boris Nemstov, which probably not be adversely affected by the scheme due to their continued support of Yeltsin' s Kremlin. ' OJ anm: Sex1 oper head a diD hara lrnm epid cour \l Piot mea: nanc tima po:rt sub- peol total TJ reac so,m Wo1 sear cent (ect' seen spot In rent and tion: sent prm witl: com Ail: T thes Ali min ies: . bed he a: live B drul c ero1 We gut! Lar selJ Bat wo· ( Cot fan wh ch< Va inl fm Co iss1 tra sw: for mo rag kn~ dit! rec ryi gu1 kil the

C!timcnrhletl!lis • September 23, 1999 • Page 9 AIDS Epidemic Continues to Plague Africa by Ben Wormer Staff Writer On September 12, the eleventh annual conference ort AIDS and Sexually Transmitted ,dfseases opene~ fu Lusaka~ Zambia, The head ·ofUNAIDS, Dr~ Peter Piot adlnoni~hedthe leaders·ofsub-Sa. haran African countries to ac- knowledge the extent pf an AIDS epidernic whi~h has ravaged their countries for over a decade. \ It is a state of e:rnergency,\ said Piet, \that requires emergency measures, with full human and fi. nandal support.''Accordin.g toes·- timates by a recent UNAIDS re- port, the 34 countries that make up sub~Saharan contain 22 million people infected with HIV oat of a total of thirty million worldWide. The. epidemic in Africa has reached papdemic pro;portions- in some villages; UNAIDS an.d World Health Organization re., search indicates that over 80 per- cent of village pppulations are in- fected. Yet the issue of AIDS seems to have dropped from the spotlight in industrialized nations. In thelJ.S., a countrywhichcwM rently ~as only 800,000 aids cases and many other industrialized na- tions, AIDS is no longer a death sentence. Recent advances have provided doctors in these nations with a slew of drugs with which to combat the retrovirus that causes AIDS. The different combinations of thes·e. drugs .ate called cocktails. AIDS cocktails have produced miraculous and sustained recover- ies: patients lying on their death- beds oftentimes regain complete health and go on to live normal lives. · But a full complement of these drugs can cost as much as 20,000 US dollars per ye.ar; and. UNAlDS figures relay the sad reality: some sub..;Saharan Africannations have as little as ten dollars to spend per year per person for health care. Drugs such as AZT, which can prevent the transmission of HIV from mother to newlJor:n, ate also expensive, and the ra.te o.f infec'\ tion amongst newborns remains . high. In Natal, the tnl)st populous province in S. Africa:, 34 percent of newborns are HIV positive. According to UNAIDS, the transmission of HIV in. the Afri- can sub\'continent occurs pri'nlarily through heterosex.ual in.tercourse. High infection rates <tre recorded because ofa number offactors; but occur mainly as a :result of unpro- tected sex. Males see .condoms as a \Natl;lral Intrusio11~\ and label birth control as stricHy a \woman's\ job. Myth and stigma s:urround the disease as well, and tae end result of such beliefs is terrible acts af abuse perpetuated by. ignorance. One c9mmon myth is that a man may rid himselfof AIDS if he has . sex. with a virgin. S() many abuse cases have been file<!. since the ru ... mor started that a special court system has been set lip in South Afri.ca so t}mt chil&en may testify without having to face their a bus,. ers. Further barriers to education arise from the political and reli- gious conservative t:.ackgtounds shared by many Africans. The majarity of Africans ate reluctant to talk abo11t AIDS. Few people are evenaware that they are infected, and UNAIDS estimates that nine out often ()f HN posi- tive Africans are unaware of their infection. Those that do kno~ about their infection- live an<j. dea.l with fuat .. knowledge alone... without telling co-workers or family members. The openness .advocated recently- in a nationwide television addre$s by South African president Thab() Mbeld has rarely been in evidence; those that db share their stories i11 hopes of hei~htening. awareness fmd that ~ey are oftentimes sub~ jected to harassment, threats, and sometimes vio.lence. Moiyra Gruenberg is the owner of a dairy farm in Durban, South. Africa. In an interview she told of orie woman in a neighboring com- munity WhQ, after publicly admit- tingth!itshe.was HIVpositive, was promptly stoned to death by a group\ af men ftorn her community. The men cl~imed that the woman had \'brought their community into disrepute.\ Families will often either aban- don or completely isolate a relative after finding that they are HIV posi'- tive. All oftbese factors combined with di~crimination leftover from apartheid and low budgets make teaching Africans about AIDS a daunting task. In South Africa, the previous ministerofhe<~Jlth, Dr. Nkosazanna Zuma, spent 3 .3 million rubles on a \Road show\- a traveling play in which the accuracy of basic facts on AIDS was placed in question by International AIDS ex.perts. Along with a: faulty AIDS vac- cine {one ofthe chemical constitu- ents in the vaccine was poisonous and whose clinical trials went Wl- known by the government) and a condom distribution .program, these are the only three major pro- grams for AIDS prevention which South Africa has instituted in the past. two years. In contrast to South Africa, U gandahas successfully combated the spread of AIDS through a com- binationof education and ,preven- ti()n ,programs. Major Ugandan hospitals saw a decrease in the percentage ofpa- tients who were treated for AIDS from a high of 24.5 percent in 1989 to a low of 13.4 percent in 1998. Uganda has targeted its yeuth population through the use of a namber of media ·including tele- visi()n, radio, and newspapers. One weekly talk show focuses on answering questions from callers and <lebunking many mythsabout both sex and AIDS. \Straight Talk\ encourages listeners to wait to have sex. fer a as long as pos- sible. Yet uncaring and sometimes defiant attitudes prevail ln one South Africa high school, a group of male students responding to the question of prevention thro11gh condom use said \ If some of us must die, then we'll not use pro- tection and die together.\ Many young blacks are disdainful of campaigns, viewing such efforts by whites merely as attempts to stop them from \procreating.\ There is little hope for those who are HIV positive, and even less for those who have developed fullblQwnAIDS. There is a wast- ing stage in which people contract opportunistic infections after their immane system becomes weak- ened. Treatable opportunistic infec- tion.s such as TB, malaria,. chol- era,. and measles have all been eliooinated in the U.S. AIDS pa- tients whose doctors cannot pro ... vide basic antibiotics such as peni- cill.in. It is estimated that Zimbabwe • s hospitals go without aspirin for one third of the time. Clinics in many of these coun- tries are so llhderstaffed and un- der-suppliedthat oftentimes~ those with AIDS find that staying at home to die is mere cmnf()rtable than spending their last days in a crowded ward where doctors can not save them. The virus is taking its toll- Are- cent United States Census Bureau estimates that the average life ex.,. pectancies. for a number (Jf sub- Saharan African countries will fall one quarter century by the year 2000, ~md UNAIDS reports that three out every five new infections occur in the 15-24 age group. Af- rica will lose another twenty mil- lion people by the quarter of the century according toUNAIDS es- timates. Economists wony about already poor economies in other develop- ing nations. More importantly, the human toll continues to rise- there are 200;000 AIDS orphans living in South Africa alone. Eighty three percent of all AIDS fatalities oc- cur in Africa. AccordU:lgto UNAIDS, Interna- tional agencies and governments accounted for 150 million of the 165 million that African nations spent on AIDS in 1997; but Afri- can nations continue to place more emphasis on military spending. MoustaphaGueye, director of the African Council of AIDS service Organizations said \It is a puzzle that millions of dollars can be spent on guns by African states when there is no money for health, for AIDS.\ Peter Piot, UNAfDS director, said in a New Yot:k Times inter- view \If a country does not recog- nize that it has an AIDS problem, then 'it is not willing to take on the tough questions. Outside support for something that only be solved from the inside cannot work.\ Gunman Kills Eight, Injures Seven in Church Killing Political debate regarding gun control is a misfire, for both sides of the political spectrum refuse to compromise by David Groner Staff Writer Once again,. horrific and treach- erousactions struck tiLe nation. On Wednesday night, September 15, seven people were fatally shot. The gunman- identified as 4 7- year-old Larry Gene Ashbrook, killed him- self in a pew at the W edgwood Baptist Church. Sevenothers were wounded, three of them critically. Over the past 12 months, this country has seen again. and again family, friends, and the nation as a whole perish at the hands of psy- chotic killers. From the North Valley Jewish Community Center in Lost Angeles to the brokerage firms in Atlanta to the infamous Columbine High Schol>l massacre, issues' such as social security and transportation have been side swiped by gun control and the need for better education: What is the motive(s) of.these gunmen? Is it rage, jealousy, or simply 'I don't know why?' How is it that an or- dinary man with no known police record storms into a Church car- rying a 9nllll semiautomatic hand- gun and a .380-caliber handgun, killing seven innocent people and then taking his own Jife.'? These are unanswerable <!UestiQns, for how is one to truly un.derstand a gunman and his/h.er reasons in pointing a gun at a stnall child and pulling the trigger? The victims were \Sunday schocl teachers and one of the favored soloists in the church, the children'schoir direc- sought comfort in each other and their faith, as Fort Worth held mul- tiple funerals on a day \of phenom- enal sadness and mourning.\ As each victim was remembered, posi- tive light was shed on the tasteless sitUation. \God is still in control,~' they stated, \we are not angry.\ On it is highly suspected that the re- <;ellt death of his father ignited some revengeful flame. One neighbor recalled that when Mr. Ashbrook's father passed away. ''Everybody thinks this is what brought this on, that he just went crazy.\ His reputation as being From the North Valley Jewish Community Cen- ter in Lost Angeles to the brokerage firms in At- lanta to the infamous Columbine High School massacre~ issues such as social security a~Jd ~ransportation have been side swiped by gun con- trol and the need for better education. tor, kids, youth members, some active, some just getting active, so.me just beginning to find God.\ The fact that people were killed is one thing, but the fact that dreams and aspirations accompanied those helpless bodies makes the scene that much more unb:earable. On Satqrday, S&pternber 18, friends and family of those slain Sunday, more funeral services were held before the entire Fort Worth community-thousands showed up in support of the vic- tims, those seven heroes who saved many lives w bile losing their own. Police have spent the entire week investigating motives for Mr. Ashbrook's actions. Nothing con- crete has developed as of yet, hut eccentric became fury-driven, wan. ting revenge. Why Wedgwood Baptist Church? Ashbrook never expressed ill will towards the Baptist religion. Tllere was never any reason for his rampage in the church on Wednesday night. This puzzle is far from complete, as pieces are j11st begilining to fall into place. Police must research even more, finding resolution to another disas- trous moment in American history. For now, there isn't much that can be said or done. Political de- bate regarding gun control is a misfire. Both sides of the political spectrum have strong viewpoints and are unwilling to resolve petty differences. The 'best thing is for parents to teach their children the 11ses and dangers of guns. Education, mostly relying on parental respon- sibility, must surge ahead and con- sume the lives of those innocent and insecure. Who knows when and where another catastrophic incident will take place, and di- rected at whom? God only knows how many more Larry Gene Ashbrooks are living in the world. It could be that he lives across the Atlantic Ocean, yet it could be that he lives down the road. Education about guns is essen- tial if this country is going to raise future leaders and punish future criminals. Fort Worth, Texas is another shooting to add to the list. Paren- tal responsibility must stand tall; parents must stop such detrimen- tal torture.

For this and future colunms I will attempt to branch out from dis- cussing just Union. I feel that I have discussed just about every single topic that is possible to dis- cuss, concerning Union. So, I will still rant and rave as usual, but the topics will most likely be outside of the microcosm we have here. If something new comes up that has to do with school, then of course it will be mentioned, but I don't see that happening once a week. This week's topic will be commercials. Some people hate them, and some people hate them a lot. I'm not talking about radio commercials because everybody despises them. Nobody even leaves them on in the car for more than five seconds, so I don't know what one sounds like. I am talking about television commercials. Thanks to the Su- per Bowl in the 90's, advertisers have put effort into having us (the couch potate>es) not change the channel when commercials come on. The problem is that not all of them have caught on. So while we have those clever-mast-pay-atten- tion-deficit On Health. com ads, we also have unknown actresses try- ing to sell you make-up. It's re- ally annoying. I enj.oy quality commercials, as do most educated TV viewers. But as soon as a bad one comes on, I change the chan- nel. What's the difference between a good commercial and a bad one, yoa ask'? Well, since I don't like writing about good things in my column, I will show you some ex- amples ofbad commercials. The first example is Ray-Ban sunglasses. You all know what I'm talking about. The vampires, the guy who \forget his Ray-Ban sunglasses\ and gets singed to .a crisp while his friends laugh at him. Yes, he \forget his Ray- Bans.\ I guess vampires have a bad grasp ofEnglish. I mean, af- ter all. they are vampires. But even the stupidity of this one doesn't bother me too much. What bothers me is that I have never seen another ad for Ray-Ban. As far as I am aware, this is their only one. And if s been around for 3+ years. They are p1:1tting zero effort into tlleir fight againstOakley, Tommy Hilfiger or other companies thai sell shades. Granted that there aren't too many ads for shades. out tltere, they should at least be a little creative. Anyway, who can relate to vampires that laugh at their fel- low vampire's death? Vampires seem to be an endangered species of sorts. They should stick to- gether. 'fhey should keep each other from dying by reasons asstu- pidas forgetting supglasses. How will they take over the wm ld if they aren't united? These are some serious questions we all should ponder. Next up are the collect call com- panies. Now, I completelyunder- standthe need for these companies to advertise. I mean, who actually mi[kes collect calls? No smart per\ son. Nothing stops you from leav- ing your name as \Mom I'm llome. Cal~ me right back.\ Then your mom calls you back and you d.on 't have to spend the initial con- nection charge for the collect call. Even if yo a don't do this, all you have to do is get the person to ca1l you back in the first minute and you still save money on minute- by-minute charges. So, basically, I understand that these comp.anies need to advertise. But their ads are so mind-numbing that they make me hate them even mor~. They've attempted to use late 90's ADD advertising methods while using actors from the early 90's. Take 1-800-COLLECT. Maybe Sergeant Savings (starring once-. promising comedian Damon Wayans) is designed to target the morons that would actually be per- suaded to make collect calls. Who knows? There are so· many of these dumb-ass commercials star- ring either Al Bundy, Damon Wayans, some fat guy named Biderman, or a combination of all of them, that I put them under a big umbrella ofidiocy. But, there are still a few people out there who think that 1-SOO-COLLECT ads are funny. I lived with one of these .. 'Average-Americans\ over the summer, while interning in Co- lumbus, OH. I was watching TV with this guy and on ·came Ser- geant Savings. Of course I com- mented· on how stupid this eom- mercial was. His reply? Picture a strong mid-western accent, \Naw man wait for that part to come on where he be sin,ging, 'C-o-1-1-e-c- t save a buckor two.or three'. Man that is funny, I love singing .that.\ He then proceeds to .sing it over and over until South Park comes back on. I guess 1~800-COL- . LECT advertises well. I mean, this guy loves that commercial. , But he also enjoyed Austin Pow- ers 2. Then there is 1-800-CALL- ATT. Their pitch seems to be, \Watch everyone's favorite dolt, David Arquette, make an ass out of himself long enough so we can implant 1-800-CALL-ATT (dial right down the center of the phone) into your short-term memory.\ While these aren't as bad as the other company, they are still awful. One time, when the ad ca1ne on with him weightlifting the phone, I almost made it to the bathroom before projectile vom~ iring. True story. Of course, Paul Reiser is worse, but the spotlight has been shinc;:d away from him, for now. 'Phere are also the commercials that are so 80's that they make the ad execs look like John Hughes. · T.G.I.Friday's is probably the best example of this. That guy with the Back to the Fature, Michael J. Fox haircut is the worst spokesman I have ever witnessed. In addition to him, the \What's your favorite day? Wednesday? Tuesday?NO, it's FRIDAY\ thing is sooo stu- pid. I would love to see just one person watch those commercials without screaming how much they · suck. Similar to Ray-Ban, can anyone relate to this tool? Any- body? There are so many others that can be mentioned (like the Gap's attempt to brainwash and control the youth of America through trances/hypnotic ads), but I am going to let you get back to watch- · ing television. Japan! by Brian T~rlinsky · Staf[Writer (OSAKA, JAPAN) Welcome back students and welcome the class of2(i)()3. I am taking a vaca. tion from reporting Union sports and have ventured .off into the world about 12,000 rniles ea:;t of good o1dSchenectady, to a very unique place called Japan. None. of my friends and frankly eveJJ: myself just a few weeks before I left, could believe that I was go. ing, not knowing a wo.rd of Japa. nese or being some type of an Asian Studies major. However, almost a month into the term here in Japan, I can say that I am sur. viving and having an amazing time. There are 14 students here from Union and speaking for everyone, we were all nervous at -.first but once we got here, everything seemed to fit:rightint0 place. We are arn_ongst a group of about 250 international students from vari- ous countries across the .globe in- cluding, of course, the United States, Canada, Australia, Mexico, Columbia, and many countries of Europe and Asia. Our classes are held at the In- ternational Center on the campus .of Kansai Gaidai University, which is located in a small city between the two big cities of Osaka and Kyoto. All of the Union students are staying with families in the area of the Univer- sity and everyone seems to be han- dling it just fme, finding our way to school every morning either by bike, bus, train or just walking. Some of us are 10 minutes away, while others may be as far as an hour by train away. Nevertheless, everyone .is deal- ing very well with the experience. English speaking professors, who live in Japan permanently, teach most of our non-language classes. Professor Kenney of the Econom- ics Department is here with us and has been great to the Union stu- dents, helping us in any way pos- siqle. He isteaching a class, while also planning trips around Japan for us . gua~e major, such as English or Spanish, so the lnternationalCen- ter becomes quite a hang-out for the Japanese students to socialize and learn be:tte:r English and. other langu,ages from the foreigners. . Some things we are getting used to quickly: Japan is very expen- sive: a 12 ounce can of coke: .$1.20; Big Mac meal at McDonald's: $6.00; Calvin Klein T -shirts at a department store:. $75 :00; and the list goes on and on. The food, well that was an in- teresting situation, especially .the frrst couple of days when many of us were eating at little convenience stores since we had no idea where any restautan.ts were in the area. Our everyday lunch is nothing like Dutch Hollow or Upper class food: Most of us eat a combina- tion of different things including rice,. noodles, soup, some type of salad, fried chicken orbeefdishes and drink water since the. sodas-are expensive and refills are not fr.ee. Otherwise on the weekends, if we do not eat at home, .some stu- dents have ventured to great sushi bars. and trendy restaurants ·in . Osaka to get the best sushi in the world and its great! Some other. things new to us Americans: the very small, and I mean very small, streets. You would not believe it and anyone who has.abiggercatthan, lets say, a Honda Civic, Woulcl h~1ve major problems getting around this CO'Ull- try. Filling up a small car like a Civic could costs about 3000 Yen, which is just about 30 dollars. Very expensive, right! Oh, and another thing, if you think Americans are nuts about Cellular Telephones, think again. Everyone has a telephone, from 1 O~year-olds to 70-year-olds. You could be on a crowed bus or train, and a telephone rings and about 50 people take their telephones out and say. \Moshi-Moshi which means hello in Japanese. It is crazy but funny. Rocks,Rocks,Rocks Many of the Japanese students start class today, September 16, but the international students have been at it for three weeks now. Sportswise,. they love basketball, just as much as baseball. Every- otte here knows who Dennis Rod- man is and of course Michael Jor- dan. The NBA is actually coming to Tokyo for early regular season games in the beginning ofNovem- be:r. Just this past weekend, a huge three on three tournament spon- sored by Wilson was held in down- tOVIll Osaka,· and the streeis were jam pack with basketball lovers. by Alex Bartholomew Contributing Writer Well. this is my first article for the '\Concordy and I hope you learn a: little here and there between the chaff. I am a geology major here at Union and I am known lo- cally as Kidd. I matriculated as a geology major and I have to say I made the right choice. I had an extensive rock collection as a child as I'm sure you all did. 1 mean what little kid didn't take a rock from here and there that looked cool or had a neat fossil in it. Well, when you guys all grew outofthat rock-collecting phase, I just kept on going. So here I am today, an enthusiastic geology major at a college in the middle of a big city (here I must digress into why I say \big\ city .. .I live in a town of 1100 people, half the size of the Union College population ... Schenectady is big to me). What's that you say? \How can you study rocks in the middle of this concrete jungle?\ Well, its really simple: you go up behind the rink, cross the Whipple Bridge, and looking immediately right, you notice a big step pyramid. Contrary to popular belief, this is not some obstacle the campus placed here for your drunken amusement; it is what we geolo- gists like to call a \stratigraphic column.' 1 This is a representation of a section of rocks in the correct time sequence, meaning that the rocks on the bottom are the oldest and the ones on top are the young· est. At the b,ottom of the pyramid are rocks from the Adirondacks. These are metamorphic and igne- ous rocks that are about 1.1 bil- There are a few Japanese students lion years old. From here, the·col- in each of our classes, who are unm advances to the top where the given the opportunity to take our cap of the pyramid is a piece of classes with the international stu- concrete containing small pebbles dents, only if they have one of the representingaconglomerate. This topGPA's in their class. Also it's rock was deposited when the gla- funny, most of the Japanese stu- ciers receded from this area about dents who attend Kansai Gaidai There is so much more to say, but there are tons of people wait- ing to use email and I have to get to class. Good luck to everyone th:is term and go Union football. 12-13,000 years ago (the actual LJ.~~!Q!:~~sgo~mQ!:eUYJ~Q!}~_.:~~~L~--:-:----:~~ conglomerate would fall apart if ... ya gotta ;:,o1mewn.ere around here in this placed in direct contact with the have fun right? So, now you're formation are big fossils of sea weather). in the erik (.that's hick for creek), scorpions. These are calledeuryp- Now, turn and look at the tum left and look upstream. On te.rids. They are the official state \brook-that-bounds\ ( a.k.a. Hans yourleft will be an outcrop of the fossil of New York and look like Grootkill), Walk towards it, that's Schenectady Fomtation. the little sticker that is on the back right, go over the hank and down 'This is a series of interbedded of the Geo- Van parked next to into the water. This is the best part shales and sandstone layers. It Science and Engineering. There about being a geologist, you get doesnlt have any big fossils per- · is also a common fossil of seaweed to be wet and dirty and play in the se, but is it does have some cool that looks like a little flake of ce- mud and stuff .. .I guess to be a true little beasties called graptolites. real. These fossils are all in the geologist, you have to be mentally These look kind of like little pieces Schenectady beds that are here on aboutfourorfive ... thiscanbede- offernandarehardtosee,butthey campus but fmdmg one will be a tracting in .other portions of your are really neat if you find one. task. .. trust me. t\'1 th ht p< th se w 2( d tl1 pc n: fi S( al 01 p. Cl a rr v Cl n n I a a n 0 t) n fi a (J I £ a f I< v f 1: f ' !

Feailites Giom:orhlensis • September 23, 1999 • Page 11 Matty G's World I Can't B,elieve I 'm Not Butter by Matt G~n<Jron Staff Writer to turn the game off was great. . Icing 'on the cake were the many scenes of the rabid Yankee fans After· two weeks at Union, with that despised pitcher Billy Chapel, by Deric Harrington Staff Writer two classes that are more work and at the end ofthe game ,etnbrac- Hey there everyone, thanks fot than I imagined, it wa~ tin'te to ing Costner's character. corning back, for giving me an- head out to Crossgates Mall this All in all, this movie had.enough · other chance after last week's ar- past Satllrday. ~Why Crossgates, baseball to make the movie for me, tide (or, if you didn't read last the freshmen might ask? There are and others .there like(l it for the week's article, thank you. for read- several responses to that. First, story and characters that were de- · ingthe fll.\st sentence like it applied why wo-uld there he a Schenectady vel oped. While I got tb.e reduced • to yo11), for giving me a chance to 2000 Cbmmittee if it were a good matinee price for this movie, and . really reveal the dirty little under- city to hang out in? Secondly, only paid $6.00, it would have belly of life, known as \Deric.\ thirty movie screens are quite ap- been worth the full price for this So, before you read any further, pealing. with a selection of older particular movie. In particular, I now is perhaps a good time to put :01ovies (pastyear or sQ) aloRg with think this might make~ great date , on your athletic supporter (and I first run movies on eighteen movie(likelwouldkhow)hecause don'tmean those people thatpaint screens at a v:ariety oftimes. They it appeals to two main~roups: the themselves the color of their favor- also b.av~ almost any item you baseball was .enough to l;eep my-.· ite team ... because ... well, it's just could want for college life, orjust raptattention, but the story and the . wrong to put people on), because plain life.. Instead of staying characters would pwbably be · thiscolurmi:is going to be the only cooped'uponcampus,itgivesyou enough to keep ha1f()fthe audi- ·.full contact article written this a variety .of ways to spend your ence watching. · week. .. money (with a B.ath and Body In other news, this weekend the Speaking of full contact. .. I have Works for the ladies and sports and Campus Center had several show. a cold (ladies and gentlemen, rule com,put~r equip- ings of the nunl.ber one for writing is get good ment for the : Mummy. It would segu.es ... I believe I have already me ... ')-· ,.,'1 h. seem· · that ·some. demonstrated why this is neces- ~is ·weekend ·. · n 0 f er one got his or her sary). I get a cold every time I ei· I happened to be h act together and · ther come back to Union, or go at Crossgates, neWSJ. f · iS the movie ran · home (ununm ... that's where the and took in a smoothly, as far · he~rt is. Ok, I'd actually tell you matinee showing. Weekend the as Fve heard. whexe I live, but I know that so of For Love of Though the · man:ypeoplereadthis, that it would the Game. This Cam'P. us.· movie actuatly • literally hurt my postman to carry movie was a fme playedtl:ris week- . all of the fan mail at once ... and film,andigiveit Center had end, iiwas only· I'm not a fan of causing others a 7.5 out of ten' theMummy. Iac- pain ... well, that is, except for (just for context, s· everal tually have meet Windy ... I could beat him up, and I would give some people that he !mows it... bmmm, I appear to Braveheart a 9.5 h. \-f saw the movie have drifted again, let's go back and only Star . s owings OJ and liked it, but now and seeif anything comes of Wars a 10). don't confuse me it). Kevin Costner fhe with them. It Yeah, so cold;~ are like bad(as was great as a does :have some we all see, nothing came ofit... too forty-year-old Mummy. \ good action se- bad ... man, did you waste your colds. Perhaps you sb.o-uld read my problem with you? Well, ev- the book A Thousand and Oneof erywhere I go I see you. This the World's Greatest Colds, by - might have semething to do with Y eah-Chuthe famous Hiku poet). F(Jr those of you that don't know, by the way ... I'nt Deric. I'm a junior til is year {which mea!ls- that I should graduate sometime in the next 15 years ... although my parents believe I'm being too optimistic). For those of you that still don't know who I am, I'm that kid; you know that one that is kind of \scary be- cause I'm always wearing black, I know, it's tough to pick me out in a crowd filled with Abercrombie (not that anyone here at Union is wearing that any- way}. Well, last week I told you how great my friends are (whom, by the way, I wollld be so lost here without them that I thank bothofthem ... uhhhh ... wait, no, I have more than two friends ... _ honestly ... ) so from here on in, I only am going to say bad things abont everyone (ok, not really, but with the dire search for contro- versy going on at Union, Pm sur- prised that someone hasn't started a petition about getting the drip fixed in Upper-class. And for those of y(:)u that are reading and are fr~shmen, just so you know, the food is virtually identical. Which means that when your friends say they'd rather eat at upper class, they;re just saying that they're \too cool,. for West. In other words, they're full of crap). r cl 'like to start my path of vi- ciollS rage at the top, and work my way down. So, Mr. Michael Winn, it appears that I am calling you()utinapublic forum. What's the fact that I have a life sized standup of you in my dorm room (what I do with that standup is my business ... and mine alone), but I think it goes much further than that. I think you purposely go out of your way to be seen by rnore people. My own \union-esque\ con- spiracy theory is that you plan on running for a second year of be- ing student b()dy president ( ok, for those of you that don't find the.! irony, Mike is a s.enior. . . do the math folks). Sigh, ok, not every- thing is humorous, but at least I acknowledge this fact, and still manage to rnove on with minimal success ... that is, if you're even still reading at this point. If you are still reading, then con- gratulations. That means that you're well on your way to becom- ing an elite Butterhead (my fan club ... it's like the cheeseheads, only we taste better on bread alone ... hey, be glad the name of the column isn't \Dick's thoughts\ or something like that, ok?). Well, I'm sadly going to end the column now, but defog that glass eye of grandma, because I'll be back here next week, with more delicious nuggets of counter-productive- ness. So, until tlJ.en, remember that just because you hang out with people, doesn't mean you fit in. Don't believe me? Take a l<>ok at you.r friends (don't look too closely, or else they'll catch on, I suggest standing about a footaway or so ... anything closer would be uncivilized). baseball player quences, but time looking for a good story on pitchlng the last movi.es need .1-----------------------------------~-- game of the sea- more than just son for the Tigers. The movie special effects to be decent, and at takes place in the course of that some point producers will start to game, and Costner's story is told u~tderstand that. If one is in search in flashback forin while he is on of an action movie with good ef- the mound or .on the bench be- - fects and an interesting plot, The tween innings. His blonde co-star Matrix, which was on campus last adds some acting to the movie and weekend, was a great one with a pretty face, bttt Kelly Preston plenty of action that leaves you couldhave been replaced with any asking, \how did he do that?\ other blonde with some acting Next weekend, the seho()l brings ability .. Their on-screen chemis- John Travolta in The General's try wasn't great (but she is already Daughter to campus. That seems taken by John Travolta). As I like it Will be an interesting movie, watched the previews for this and or that's what the previews have Where ro Ear? the movie, I kept saying that I done for me so far. knew her from somewhere, and As far as baseball movies go, couldn't place it. That's because For Love of the Game was a good she's been in 14 movies in the past flick. If you see it aml really liked FIVE years. Not all of them have the baseball in it, yo11'1l want to been big; she was Cruise's first make sure you don't miss the MLB girlfriend in Jerry Maguire. playoffs this year. Other movies As I sat through the movie, I that you might like with baseball by Michaela Cautela Contributing Writer If there is one thing that Schenectady offers Union students, (above all of its other myriad charms), it is a plethora of fme din- ing establishments which go above · and beyond West Dining to cater to .even the most sophisticated of , palettes. And I hope that you are picking up on my sarcasm here, as . I am laying it on with a golden shoveL There are so pitifully few, that after having my boyfriend visit for two weekends; we have virtu- ally exhausted all of the restaurants that I would consider to be both , kept waiting for ·more baseball would be Bull Durham {Costner worth my time and money.. From scenes, but I think many women again~ but this time he plays ami- here on in, I guess we will have to will enjoy the story. There were nor league catcher) a11dEightMen be content to order in from West- many people in the theater that Out. Both of these movies have · ern Chicken & Pizza (a late, late cheered at the end of the game, like almost enough baseball in them night must-have, for those of you I did,, but then I guess some people along with interesting stories. who have never tried it). kept paying attention because A11.other good Costner movie However, the purpose of this ar- that' s not the endofthe movie. For about baseball as America's favor- · tide is not to fmd fault in every res- me, ihe game made the movie. It ite pastime is Field of Dreams. tau.rant in the Metropolitan area was melodramatic at times, but While that is a nice emotional whose fare isn't quite up to par, but there were many spots of action movie about fathers and sons and to recount the details of a particu- that made it seem like I was watch- love ofbaseball, there are few se- larly enjoyable evening at one of ing ESPN. At one point you could .quences in it of acmat baseball and my favorite restaurants, just a quick hear David Kay and John Sterling, more of the story. I must say that jallllt from the school, Cornell's on actual Yankee's announcers, in the . Kevin Costner knows how to sell Van Vranclcen Ave. I'm sure that background commenting about the ~ movie to me, just make it about · many of you have been there, and game. The reality that was brought one of two things: sailing if you haven't had the pleasnre, to a New York cab driver that flat ( Waterworld and Message in a have at least heard of it. It is the out denied a passenger's request Bottle) or his three about baseball. sort of restaurant that you can feel :...t,..V -' \ ~ ~·\1, t1 .If- J {•1 ~iJ J J comfortable frequenting as dressed~up or dressed-down as both the occasion and your mood req11ire. The tables bear freshly ironed cloth tablecloths, suggest- ing that a skirt, or perhaps nice dress pants are appropriate; how- evet:, paper place mats ettsure that even the most laid back sweat- pant clad student can find a place without feeling any social guilt that they are too casual. On the night in question, as I was on a date, I felt compelled to dress on the nicer side of casual, and was (with a.n approving glance) shown to my table: a somewhat cozy table for two (that I think was actually supposed to be a taMe for four, which would explain the reason why my date and I had to brush up on our sign language in order to communi- cat.e). We were in the front of the restaurant, which was thankfully not anywhere near the kitchen or the bar. However, (and this is a big however), we were sand- wiched between a table of fow drullken disorderlies just waiting to. be found and arrested, and, the prize of Cornell's, the accordion player. I don't think that you can fully comprehend what an impact these tw<l entities can have on your evening, let alone their combined efforts to ensure that you are winc- ing your way through your chicken cacciatore. After a rousing rendition of the Tarantella, during which John, (the worst of our newly found inebri- ated friends) got up to dance, tak- ing his chair with him and nearly sending numerous empty wine bottles clamoring to the floor:, my date and I ffi()Ved past the stage of mild amusement at the sight of grown men_making complete fools outofthemselves, to complete and utter horror at the thought that if any other people in the restaurant turned to see where the commo- tion was coming from, they would mistakenly link us to the circus at - the next table. As the dancing and revelry dFew to a close, I breathed a huge sigh of relief at the pros- pect of the accordion player mov- ing on to another part of the res• taurant, leaving us to enjoy what remained of our meal. But no! John had another request for our resident musician, this time bring- ing us even deeper into the realms of Italian culture with the theme from The Godfather. We contin- ued to wince. Finally, the player caught the pained looks on our faces, and moved on to \entertain\ another section of the restaurant. The fo11r stooges .paid and left too, but not bef<lre a gigantic scene with the waitress. At last, my date and I were alone, just long enough to look across the table and say to one another, \Y<lu ready to go?\ \. ' . I ~ ! . I i 'i. '. . I I', J r · i i

' t Page 12 • September 23, 1999 • (llmu:arbi.l!tulill Sc:ienc-e &: Technology Science & Technology The Secrets of Celluar Phone Ne~orks by Jeffrey Ausfeld Staff Writer A good way to understand the sophistication of a cell phone is to compare it to a CB radio for, believe it or not, a cell phone is actually a radio. A CB radio is a simpLex device. That is, two people communicating on a CB radio use the same frequency, so only one person can talk at E!: time. A cell phone is a duplex device, so it uses one frequency for talking and a second, sepa- rate frequency for listening. A CB radio has 40 channels. A cell phone can communicate on 1,664 channels. Cell phones also operate within cells and they can switch cells as they move around. Cells give cell phones incredible range. A walkie-talkie can trans- mit perhaps a mile. A CB radio, because it has much higher power, can transmit per- haps five miles. Someone using a cell phone, on the other hand, can drive clear across a city and main- tain a conversation the entire time unless there is a tunnel through a mountain or some ob- struction along those lines. But even in the larger cities. the cdl companies have cell coverage in tunnels, thus elim.inatinga lost sig .. nal. The cell phone stan-:- dard called AMPS (Advanced M()bile Phone System). This standard established a range of frequencies between 824 mega- hertz and 894 mega- hertz for analo.g cell · 1 phones. The neat part about the cellular system is the realization that a city can be chepped up into small cells, and that The cells allow ex- tensive frequency re- use across a city. Fre- quency :{euse is what lets millions ofpe0ple own cell phones 'With- * * * * out problems. Here'showitworks. The carrier chops up ~narea (such as a city) into cells. Ea..ch cell is typically sized at about ten square miles (in a big city the cells would be much smaller in size}~ Cells are normally thought of a~ nex.agans on a big hexagonal .grid, and resemble a ,cross-section of hon- eycomb. Each cell has a base station that consists of a. tower and a small * nels. So a noiHtdjacent cell to phon~ registers itself to the cell our base statil'm can use the same towe1tbatitis in; theMTSOlmows frequencies, th11s explaining the fre~ which cell you are in. The MTSO quency reuse iclea. Therefore, eacb then .tells both your phone and the cell has 59orsochannelsavailable. base s1a.1ion in the cell which of In other words, in the 59 clla!lllels in yom cell your any cell .59 people phone 'Sh<luld be using; At that can be talking on point you were connected to the their cell phones at base s.t~tii<ln and you cotlld start &netime. The denser talkfugand listening. the populaiion the As you move toward the ectge smaller the cells of yo.tU cell, your cell's base sta- llsed are to allow tion will .~ote that your signal more access to the streng'th isdim:inishing. The base Jlhone network. station i:n 1\).e cell you are moving The cell carrier in tow~rd will be able to see yo11r each city also runs - pltone 's signal strength increasing. · o.ne central office The two base stations coordmate called the MTSO thems.elves through the MTSO, {Mobile Telephone and atso:n1.e point your phone Switching Office}. gets a signal on a certtrol channel This office handles telling it to change frequencies. all of the pl).one con~ This h:andoff switches your phone nections to the nor~ to tb.e ttew cell. mal land-based :mere area lotofothertricksthat ~- www.totallywireless.tom p·hone system and tbe cellular companies have thoagllt of to make this network possible a11d I think that they are doing a pretty good job. Unfortu· nate1y [ do not have the colutrUi space to address them all $0 addi- tional thou~hts can be forwarded to a11sfeldj@vu. union.edu. building cont~,ining the radio· controls the e11ti:re sysi;embase sta- equipment A single cell uses tions in the region. 1/7 of the available 416 duplex So let's say you have a cell voice channels: Why only use phone, it is turned on, and some- 1/7? The reason is simple: the one tries to call you. The. MTSO surrounding six cells take up the gets the call, and it tries to fmd you. left over 617 of the available chan~ In the modem networks, your cell Did Someone Say Online Religion~ How CouLD THE Aut·IIOR oF THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE BE A SLAVE-0WNERi by Steve Ayers Staff Writer Many people have vague reli- gious aspirations, but lack the time. energy or intelligence to follow through with them. If you fall into this category, The Universal Life Church (www.ulc.net) may be the answer to your prayers. According t\') the ULC, based in Modesto, Califor- nia, you will be a legally ordained minister after filling out a form that includes your name, e-mail and home address. A certificate, sent to you by mail, will allow you to perform.marriages, funerals or any number of religious ceremonies yo.u can imagine. Union College is the home of at least one ordained minister of the Universal Life Church. Senior Jeremy Newe 11 maintains his office as a novelty, but is willing to perform marriages for students with a few weeks notice. He explains that the specifics of church ceremony are left up to the individual members, citing one minister who performs maFTiages only in Jacuzzis. \Reverend\ Newell has· more ambitious plans, stating, \I think it would be especially in- teresting to marry people intreesi I've also been pondering the idea of performing services in pig-Latin, for that 'middle ages' touch.., The Universal Life Church is not new, though its presence on the web is. Reverend Kirby J. Hesley founded the ULC by pronounc- ing himselfBishop in 1962, as a pro- test against organized religion. Since then, he has advertised in the back of Rolling Stone Magazine. An article in the J!iJ/age Voice claims that the U LC fields 15,000 requests from :residents of New York City alone, ev:ery month. In addition to ordaining ministers, the ULC has also allowed mem- bers and their pets {2aimals are also allowed membership privi~ leges), to acquire tit1es such as \Guru\ or \Apostle <Jr to create their.own, customized title. Saint- hood is slightly mCJre exclusive, requiring an aJ>plication over the Internet. The ULC has no UJonopoly on online religion. l10wever. Similar services are offered by the Progressive Universal Life Church (www.pulc.c()rn), a rival of the ULC. Not tc \be <Jutdone, this \church\ inclades a wide variety of Ph.D's which visitors can register for just as.easily. The First Church of Cy-berspace (www.godweb.com) d<Jes not offer online ordinatiom, but does offer services such as an online sanctuary and chat fonms. These sites rnay b,e indicative of a wider trend i:n online reli~ gions. Religion is a spiritual concept requiring n(:) inherent material investment,. \but with the potential for huge financial gain. Although there is nc indication that the online religions in this article were founded for profit, the Internet has greatly reduced the investment required f()r starting a new .:eligion. This hlas the effe.ct of all()wing aliy()lie -capable of composing a web Jl!.lg<e to found his or her own relilJion. It is probable that the nitmber of Internet religions f()nnded in the near future wiill increase dramatically. Religion is not new to the modern media. Long before the existence of the Internet, televangelists. ·have used TV to reap huge profits all in the name of religion. Before this, a long line of cinematic and radio pro~ ductions of biblical stori~::s can be found. H<J\Wever as these ex~ amples reflect, traditi<Jnal reli- gion may n<Jt translate well in the modem media. Among traditional religions, Judaism appears to have been among the most successful. Project Genesis (seen at www.torah.,corn) boasts a mem- bership of over 15;000 people. The active debate of traditional texts translates naturally to the : Internet c.Ihat room medium. The Vatican's site (found at . www.vatkan.va) is far less in- teractive, but also contains a sub- stantial amount of information • accessible to anyone with a com- : puter on the::: Internet. Even if traditi()nal religions are · not very successful online, it is · doubtful that organizations such • as the Universal Life Church and the First Church of the Internet . will pose a strong threat. The · membershiJl of these new reli~ : gions may be growing quickly, but with the lack of any . meaningful commitment or ceremony, it is doub-tful that they will have as much influence <>n life as the more traditional religions. However, since most religions were discounted at ·their beginning, we shoul<l not underestimate the growth potential of these new startup Internet religions. \WHY JEFFERSON LMs:A MEDITATION ON THE MAN AND THE MYTH\ A LECTURE BY AUTHOR }OSEPHhLIS THllRSDAY, SEPT!MBlR !3. 7:30P.M. THE NoTT MEMOlUAL, UNION CoLLEGE ReCEPTION TO FOLLOW IN HAL£ li~UStDINING Ro~M . . ,. ~ ..... _ ~ •' ., .. ...--JII ·- >/

Advertis'enients ·want A Challenge? -OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL Stan yo~r cara.er <>ff on tlw: right foot by ~l'lrotling in the Air Force · Offiter- Training Schoot lhete you will b~oome a oommf,ssioned officer in just 12 yJeaks. From the st.artyou·u eniov gre·at pay. COOlplete rnedica1 and del)1at care, 30 days. of vacation each year, plus the oppor~unity to rr.avel and see the world. To discover how high a career in the Air force can take you. call l .. Q()() .. 423·t.ISAF. or visit • ..z our websit~ at www.air!_orce.com VVWW•<tiiJOate.<:om CDC QP<:Iates -- - to Get the. Most Out of' tbe Career Festival-TUesday. SepteP\Jber 28 at ,.,...,.,,,. .. an~ Wecl1:1esda'Y• Septe..,aber Z9' 114't. 4PM, in. tho= CDC. Learn tips about Jatten,d.inog the Career FestjvaJ and .;~ppr.oaching repr~sentatives. ISc~pt:e:a:ab•~r ~9 - CaJ;:ee.- Festivat Reception f'or stu~nts a~d ernplqoyers at 7:30pm. Old Cblilpd hcc.k o--..t the Catw.ler FesdYal . ........etJ..,site f'or a:n up-tc.d1•te :listing qf' represe1:1;at:i,.,es!. ttp:/lwww.u.nion.edu/c~~erJCDC/Calendat.fCareerFc:st.ha:ml Drop-his this 'We-elk. ~u. 1.,.5 in ab:e• CDCU! All day dop-lns on Set:~:teanber .29 anll October 1. CAREER FESTIVALU! . There is something f'or evel\Yone. from freshrnen to seniors. · Career Fields include: Puablishing, N9n..,profit, Research and . , SCience; S~le$ .. H~lt'h & JJ.urnan Services ~ name a :fe.w! O~t;ober 1 - A'Ll\..ENTION.SENIORS!!1 - Resl!lrne Drop Day Deadline. Drop off: your reso.um~e .a.t ~e CDC £\-or t'all recrub.ng. Complete; 1:be Recrwi:tiog ContraCt; to. participate. OPEN AN ACCOUNT A.ND GET A $50· !!!1!11 GIFT CERTIFICATE. ~ .. . . ' . . . .. . . . <lh:rm.orhitnei!. • September 23, 1999 • Page 13 If you ·are looking for a Chicken Philly Steak Sandwich and a side of Mozzerella Sticks, there is only one place to go ••.• The 'Skellar Open Monday to Friday ll:OOam to 7:30pm Friday .and. Saturday 9:00pm to 1:00am :'e>tT): 1\'C ~.:;m't hd}' vm1 \\'itb vnu.n· :\tlx·r: 11uL w<..'< •• Hi hdp Itl.lklc your hmk.ltl,g c.t.~y. A.Ittl .titor .. l.ll>k Tht: l'l.:L'I Stud,·u! ·lc~nlll\1 1\Kk.ig<.~ .. ,\nl'\ with .1 Fled ~1.:ll ~en· ill' M £'1. t Clwck:ing. \.:cotutt, Lml il)1lla .. l .!·l·hc ,II, .• A, ... ·t n~t\1<' ,n·ct.~\s l•y Wd1, phvm· or .tt :u1 utt·~:.unpu~ or n!:'.trb} .-\:I)..l. •Ill L<.lr .tl<.•\v tltt>lll:ltl;> ,,.,., \ nd you p.11' nt' mt·mthly ic~ ior Tunc Tulv f Jee ,tnd ,\ll~ll!\[ J!:,lott~ \1' :;-mt'i(' ,) -,tndc•tnt. lli\'ll ,tn .W<'<l\HtlllCI\\:'cltld :~cl <l $30.CD:\t)\\' giil.:crlific:.I!L'. \.billL'; ill 1\'\i'W.Ilt'l~l.l(llll'in ... t~·p. Lwrythin~ ill mlll'g<.' 'hnuld l>t• thi ... c.t~y. R.aady when You Are I Member FDIC. Fleet an{;f Ra<tdy Wh~r'l You Are are registeretr m<.trks and Fleet Sell $ervlce Cltecklog is a service maik of Floot Fmnnc~i<tl Gmll>l. Inc.«:> 1 fl99 Fleet Flnanc1al Group. Inc. All rt{ll1IS reserved ....

. } Page 14 September 23, 1999. Dining Out 'With Fahitn Noor by Fahim Noor Staff Writer Are you tired of eating the same food, day after .day, on campus? Do you want to try something dif- ferent? If so, the Ashiana restau- rant might he·Jp. Ashiana Restaurant is located on 118-120 Jay Street, about a ten- minute walk from campus. It is owned by Azmat Ali Qureshi and otTers Indian and Pakistani cuisine. Not only do the buffets offer a break from the every day on-cam- pus food, but they are also open later. They have a dinner buffet from 5 to 8:30PM Thursday to Sat- urday and a Saturday lunch buffet from noon to 3 PM. The buffets include three vegetables, a choice of chicken, beef or fish, appetizer, soup, dessert, basmati rice, nan, salad, ratia and a drink of your choice. The buffets cost <mly$8.95 plus tax.lt is exquisit~ atanyprice. I was afraid of trying Indian/Pa- kistani food because I tb.ought that it was extremely hot However, I thought that the dinner was very delicious. Since most oftheir cus- tomers are not use very spicy food, · have toned it I especially liked rasmalai des which are fres cheese patties ,[-\ in sweetened mi · flavored with chios and the s kabab, whichare fried patties made ()LJt of ground beef and fritters. Going to the restaurant not only allows you to experience Indian! Pakistani food, but ~!so other cul- tural aspects of the <:()untries. For example, the waUs.ofthe restawant are covered with afghans, some of which are just colorful patterns, while others have pictuFes of In- dian/Pakistani people. and their wayoflife. Since the n;ajority of people in Pakistan are Muslim, there's an Arabic quote from the Koran on the wall. Finally, instead ofhear- ing hundreds ofpeople's loud con- versations in the dining halls, you have the opportunity to listen to Idol Minds of Coffeehouse by Brandon Soloski Staff Writer Rising to the occasion, the_hairy head of Justin Creticos '03 stands tall above the audience. To the bewilderment of the crowd, the fully erect Creticos stands a whopping six feet four inches tall. Grabbing his guitar he slowly mounts the stage to meet another man of equal proportions who has just finished his act. What occurs next takes every- one by surprise. Harmonious love and music are launched into the audience as Creticos strums his guitar. \Give it to rne, ''yells an as- tounded spectator, as Creticos strums out another Stevie Ray Vaughan song. After 15 minutes of the smoothest jams ever heard the climax is reached. Blowing the audience away, Creticos strenu- ously grinds out his grand finale. Creticos, like many others, braved the odyssey across cam- pus and entered the scorching in- ferno called the coffeehouse to take advantage of the open micro- phone. \I can't be1ieve I have found a place that will let me p~r- form my talents. I h.ave been prac- ticing for years l>y:myself. It's great to finally do this f()r a11 audience,\ said Creticos when commenting on his performance at the coffee- house. Idol Minds, Union College's comedy improve group, was the most popular act ofthe night. It was their first performance of the year and they stole th~ snow. Idol Minds • cast wowed the audience with their witty and creative minds, creating hilarious onthe spot skits. Not only did Idol minds captivate their audience withtheir humor, but they also allowed the .audience to get involved with. each skit. The audience gave suggestions and helped set the plot for each skit. This often put the Idol Minds' cast in very awkward situations, which made for very- funny com- edy. Ben Roberts '.()J called Idol Minds \uniquely C()Oiical, a must see for any comedy lover.\ Kevin Kearney '03 called Idol Minds \an electrifying extravagan:za of comic genius.\ And I give Id~l Minds two thumbs u.p. Despite the fact that people were sweating profttsely from the heat and that there '\Vas a lack of seat- ing, people seemed to really enjoy themselves. The audiences wel- comed anyone to perform music, · read their poetry, or perform any other interesting'~lalents. For a brief moment people ex- panded their social realms and. al- lowed anyone to have their 15 min- utes of fame, or for some their 45 minutes! Time was a crucial as- pect last Tuesday. Many people watlted to show their artistic talents, but people who played endless sets that lasted 30 to 40 minutes hogged the stage. Time management wa,s o:o.e of the few downsides to last· Tuesday's coffeehouse. Even if you aren't a big fan of · the arts the coffeehouse is still worth going to at least once. Go and enjoy a cup of free tea or.cof- fee and meet some interesting people. The cozy ambiance of the coffeehouse is worth seeing on its . own. The walls are beautifully . decorated with paintings that radi- ate psychedelie vibes of passion versus reason. GoPatStrong! Joel Ott '03 sums the decorations of the walls the best, putting it simply, \Dude these walls are really psy- chedelic.\ The T~e Between Dogs and Wolves Courtesy of the ,Visual Arts Departf!1ent \The Time between Dogs and Wolves\ is a collaboration of the paintings and field studies done by Keith Jacobshagen and Harry Orlyk. The exhibition will be on display in the Atrium Gallery, Arts Building, from September 13 until October 15. There will be a slide lecture, given by Keith Jacobshagen at 11:30 AM, in the Arts Building, Room 215, on Sep- tember 30, followed by a reception from 4:30-6:00 PM, in the atrium. This exhibition brings together two artists whose ac.quail'ltance dates fromtbeearlyl970s. At that time, Orlyk was co:m.pleting his Master of Fine Arts degree at the University of Nehr~ka, Lincoln, where Jaco1Jsh2ge11 VIas and con- tinues as a memberof the faculty. That experience set OJ:Iyk 's general direction as a landsoeape painter. On one hand, Jacollshagen em- ploys a lean, cris]J technique in painting the· vasi, rninimal land- scape he finds in tile vicinity of Lincoh1, Nebraska and on the other hand, he applies hislllsh, painterly technique primarily toward the landscape of upstate New York, -east of the Hudson River. Work by both of these highly prolific art· ists has been shown in major exhi- bitions and collected coast to coast. Having the two painters shown together makes for a dra- matic and exciting contrast of ap- proaches to a subject that is at heart related. The public is cor- · dially invited to attend this exhibi- tion of dramatic interpretatiohs of the American land, Keith Jacobshagen's slide lecture, and. the reception for the two remark- able landscape painters featured .. Please call388-6714formore infor~ mation. Indian/Pakistani music. If you are not in the mood to eat in the restaurant, it offers a variety of take-out options. The prices rru1ge from $1.00to $7.50. The a.ppetiz~ ers include sa:rnosas (deep fried . turnovers stuffed with-green peas potatoes), pank:ora made of potato/egg- or hot pepper frit- ), chana chat (a ombination of · ickpeas, tomatoes, toes, and chopped u1uu11~•-~> and aloo tikki fried patties made potatoes and herb). The take-out menu has many veg- etables selections including baingankabhu:r:ta (bake<d eggplant cooked in mild spices and toma- toes), aloo gobhi (potatoes and cauliflower cooked with fresh to- matoes and onions), aloo palak potatoes cooked in mild spicy spinach), aloo cholay (chickpeas and. potatoes), saag dal (spinach co(}ked in lentil), chaaa dal (split peas cooked in mild 'S;pices), and m.asoordal(black len:tils). There are also ten. breads to c;hG:ose from on the take out menu. These :include nan (special unleav- ened dough mixed Wiith milk and butter), a:Loo partha (unleavened nulti-layered whole wheat bread stuffed with spicy potatoes and cho.pped onions), and subzi kulcha (wllite bread stuffed withmild spicy vegetables). · Finally, the restaura11tis open ll AM to 9 PM Mondaythrol:lgh Fri- dayand Saturday fro:m. noon to 10 PM. Union college students get a dis~ coan:t: on everything except the bt~ffets, which are already dis- counted. ¥ ou can call them at ( 518) 3 70-3664 for reservations. Calling All Directors by Lori Greene A&EEditor Mountebanks, the student the- ater group on campus, and the old- est one of its kind in the country, held their frrst meeting ofthe tenn last Thursday and announced ex- citing plans for the term and the year. Led by moderator Phoebe Burr and vice moderator Jessica Chappell, the Mountebanks plan on producing at least one play a . term in. the Actor's Studio of the Yulman Theater. They will also con- tinue the third year of the cabaret series. The cabarets are open to all student performers and are held in the lobby of the Yulman Theater following Friday night perfor- mances of the department produc- tion. These have proven to be a tremendous success and have got- ten a great deal of the campus com- . munity involved. Typically lasting about an hour, the cabaret includes musicians, stand up comedy, po- etry reading, and any other acts. Coffee and snacks are served, mak- ing the atlnosphere warm and in- viting. Winter term, Mountebanks plans on holding the second ever Mw- der Mystery Dinner. The event · was first held last win.ter and amazed all that attended. The in- tense perfonnance by A&E editor Kim Rohback was just one of the many highlights. Mountebanks hired an outside, professional di- rector who also wrote tlte play. It was put together in just one week and used minimal sets and cos- tumes. Students and faculty mem- bers enjoyed the evening held in Upperclass Dining. It was a refreshing way to spend a Saturday night. Mountebanks also produces Idol Minds, the im- provisational comedy troupe on campus. The group; formed last spring, performs at Coffee~ouse as well as any other performance space around campus. What makes Mountebanks so unique is the opportunities it affords anyone on campus interested in theater. Anyone who is intere.sted in direct- ing a show is invited t.a come to a M()untebanks meeting to discuss the idea. If you supply the creativity, Motmtebanks is able to give yo11 s.upport financially, teclmically and m()rally! Mountebanks is inter- ested in all forms of ilJ.eater, com- edi-es, one acts, stagtd readings, nigllts of scenes, children's theater, puppet theafer, mimes and any oth:er form of theater that interests y()u. If you are a bit weary of direct- ing., ot time is at a premium, Moun- tebanks also· needs .actors for all th~ shows and tech:nical support inthefonnof stage ~nagers, light- ~ng designers; costu.mers, and propsrnen. The more people and minds that come together, the bet- ter student theater willb~. Whether you were involved in the drama clab in high school; or just want to get involved now, :Mountebanks will help you learn .any aspect of the theater you may -be interested m. Right n:ow, Mountebanks is still f:malizing decisionsf()r the fall per- fonnancec to be held seventh week ofth-e term. If you ar--e interested in helping out in any war orifyou 'Ve always dreamed ofbe;ing on stage or behind it, attend tll.e meeting- at 5:;30 today, and every Thursday :Qt the green room ofthe Yulman The- ater. Come fmd out what a friendly and open-minded grl)up Mounte- banks is. A&E Staff Meeting tonight at 7:()0 . • : ...... I

Arts &: Enter~ainmeut - .. rv\i Poetry By En~ily Nobody saw it 'Coming Like the '!ris.pness of September, We were· aU c~ught off .guard, Rem.~mbering still our eminent .freedoms of mind and spirit.- nearly replaced )}y rosy, bitten cbee.ks Snow crystals on our tong:ues Children at heart E:verything in reach, we aever saw it coming But I).OW we embrace it. Beautiful ambigQity of tomorrow. atmuorbitttsie • September 23, 1999 • Page t5 Hangover Cafe Debut On Sunday by Kristina DQrne Sta./fWi'iter Where are you on Sunday mom- ing at about seven o'clock? A¢:tu- ally, the more important question wauld be what are you on Sunday rrtonring at seven o'clock? The ma- jority of Union College students will answer.in the same way. Most of us ~iU be hung over and fast asleep. After all, we do go to .~ party .school, don't we? I have twl) friends who will be out ofbed at seven o'clock Sun- day morning. Don't get me wro:ng, Tim Burgess and Brian DeMicb:ele will be as hung ()Ver as anybDdy elseonSundaymorning. The omly difference is that they will l)ull themselves out of bed at 6~5~ to come bicker and playmusie on 1he catnpus radio from seven to irine o'clock .. I \improbably a. little biasedl>e- cause these twp jokers are my friends. They can keep me laugh- ing for hows at a time. They .are worth listening to because they are funny and have somewhat decent taste in music I can vouchforthe factthatBtian and Tim really enjoy music. There is rarely a time when they are not blasting something from their rooms. That is fme with me be- cause I enjoy music just as much as they do. Now let's get on to the really important part though, shall we? I am sure that you are all dying to know what kind of music you will be listening to if you are able to stumble acmss the room at seven o'clock to turn on the radio. There will be plenty of Phish playing, given that Tim is a self- described Phishhead~ Actually, he is a diehard P.hish fan. There is enough ·Phish paraphernalia in Tim's room for several Phishheads. He fondly reminisces about a Phish concert that he went to last sum- mer. Anyone who likes Phish should defmitely tune in on Sun- day mornings. Although Brian and Tim love Steve Miller, Brian's favorite musi- cian seems to be Bob Dylan. I have lostcoW1t ofhow many times I have walked past his room to hear strains of' 'Mr. Tambourine Man'' playing in the background. This guy must play the same song about two or three times each day. It could get to be tiresome if one was not a Bob Dylan fan. But how many people are not Bob Dylan fims? What is there about Bob not to like? I will probably get in trouble for writing this but Brian is also a big Billy Joel f~n. His other favorite song is ''We Didn't Start the Fire.'' Tim is not as big on Billy Joel so it may take some convincing to get him to play this on the radio. Ire- ally don't understand what people'sproblem with Billy Joel is. Who cares if he is eighties. Billy has produced some pretcy good music during his time. Most of us do not wake up on a Sunday morning before ten o;clock. Anyone who may be awake in bed and cannot bring himself or herself to get up should turn on the radio to listen to Tim and Brian spin music and attempt to put coherent sentences to- gether. There are definitely worse ways to spend a Sunday morning. These new WRUC members will puton quite a show, so for anyone who is ambitious enough to wake up at seven on Sunday, give them a chance, give them a call, just give them listeners. · Atl Students:~ Don't Jl-:riss· tlte Annr1.al ...... Career Festival '99! 77-iursday~ September 30tlz, .12-4 pnz Unio:,J Field House: R..ain or Shine • ...-:. • t -- ~ • . . - - ' .. - . ~- -. - . ~- . - . Partjgpatina Em.ployea Advance Testing Afbany J\.:Io,tecula:r Anden;;;.en Cons~;~hi ng Ayco Co1npany, L~P~ Bechtel (M.f.\.0) .Boehdnger l~tge1heirn Phal\Tll Cambridge Technology Partners Center fo1· Disabled Central 'Hud!':ilc::m Gas & Elec:t:ric Ctough. Harbo•u•· & Associa:tt;:;s Dehna:r Pub.li shitlg Eddy Sen:i·oor Care Enberprise Rent-A-Car F'irst National B artk .of Scotia Fleet BEu'tk OE Po,;ver Sy~Stems Gene.ral D).rna.m:ic::s - Electric Boat Di-.•i:!dO'Il H'e,-,·it1 As:s,o(.dl!lite~ lBM . Kapb-.n Educat·kn•a1 C~i!:nte:r Living Reso.n-r.ces~ ltllc. Lockheed 1.\-tar1iR/Knol1s Atornic 'Power Ma{,~l-ean J::;<o~g. Co. J\.1ax irmum M.ao,:,1.gement Memoria.l s·1aat1:-Kettering Canc·ei· Center Mot'\g;;m Sta.nley De+tn Wi:t:ter New Yol'k Po\~·er Po<:)t No;rtb wester-n Mutual Life NYS Assembl)' Intern Committee NYS But\euu (>f H·i-storic Sltes . NYS l)ep.arLm(!;l'i'U: of T,-~n~p.t1'1;tation NYS J)i.visiop of the Budget· . NYS Energy Rr=s.-ea.n;h & Develc;>piTl·ent Pfi~cr , . Price w.ale:rhou:seCoopers. Qu adiGra:pbks · Re1ls.s.elae1· C..:)t:i,li.t)r Al~C S~nds 'Bmtl\~<•;:~m.s & Ct') .• l.,.td. Scheri ng l\h.a:rrnaceudcnls. State F iill'm lns. uta nee Sterling Environmenm~ S·tiefel Labornto.-ies The Princet(:J.t'l J:.tev Lew Tho1nS-<Oi:l Fina.n.e:lal Set\\\•ice~ Trustca:) Btutk . ' ,) - P:aa:tidpati,na Schools Al:baTJy College of Pharma..:;y A•bacn y Law School Albany MQdical Sc.bool American Universtty Public Affairs Prog•·am Baylof' College of Medicine Benjam1n Cardoza School of La\\\' Bostc.:nn Uni.,.•·er.sJty Scho(:Jl of Law, Broold)tn College. Brooklyn Law School Columbia University Physical Therapy Program Columbia Universtty Tenche:rs College Fordham University SoJ:..~iat Se.-vkc~ P'no.gram M.ount Sinai~ S-chool of Biological Science New York Chiropractk College New York La ... -..· School New York College <.1of Osteupathk 1\..fcdicinc New Yod;; CoUegc: of Podiatric Jvtcdicinc New \l:\'ork l\.1cdicai College Sehoul nf Mc.Uk·nl Science~ Pa.ce Unlve1·sity Graduate School .Pace Uni,··ersity Schon] of Law RPI Com pouter Info. Sy:stems RPI Lan~uage, Literature. and C'ommunka.t.inn RPI J:'...fll A Pn;.>gl'am RPJ Scllo()~ of /\.rchiitce:turc Saral1 Lawrence Smitll College Suffolk University 1..-u\v Scho•cll SUNY AJbu.ny Scttool of Bushicss Syr.::wusc University School of L.av.· The College e,f S~dnt Rose The Sage Co lleg~.._ Unh\>I\J. Ct::.Uege Educatiom•l Studies Union. CoUege Graduate MarHlige.m.ent .Jns.htutc. Unive:rist}\' tOt' Connecticut School of J.a-..w,..• '\.Vcstern New England College lllf La\'\' Be Prepared: U.S~ Air Fore~. M.a:d nes. N .a v;o,r US Peace Co'il~ps. ~tllUam M. :rv·le, 1 :--cer • Bring several copic.1.s ofyour re·.·•..-unu~~ c-:11-eckforfi,trrher update .. '\.' at: l4v'\Vi·P.u:nio,~.edr.ifcareer/CDC/UN10l'v\/COlf.:. CF.htrul

\\\\' I ...... ; Page 16 •,'-f Fighting Dutchmen Lose Home Opener WPI Sc:ores in Last 18 Seconds of Game, Evening Dutchmen Record to 1-1 by Da~fillll'ooks Edi~OT\it< -Cizie.f On Saturd.ay, tlbe Fighting Dutchmen kic ke<l off their home season with a :st2r1lillg and disap- pointing loss t() VICJrcester Poly- technic Institute, 71-3, .. We should have won this f()otball game,\ stated head coaeiT Jbhn Audino. In a game that s:a'W'II 12 total punts, Union's defense a~ainplayed very strong throughott.t 1l:le game, led by semor capt11inJoeAttansio who had two interceptnoEs: in the game. However, the defense could not stop the Engineers ()n their last drive of the game~ After a 28-)'ard (JLJnt by junior Brian Slekes, W'P'l' s ()ffense took over on their own 17 yard line with 2:51 to go in the g;ar:ne. WPI quar- terback John Ri<:cb went four for six to bring the EIIg ineers to the Dutchmen's 12 yar<i line. After a one-yard loss~ ther faced second and l 1 from tbe 1 3-y-.ard line wi-th 35 seconds iru the jjame_ Riccio again went to the- ,flir, looking for his tight end ia 1l:ae endzone. A ttansio made a grefl!t break up to prevent the tO>ud\ld-own. However, with tl•,i•d and 11 and 24 seconds left, tit~. defense, ex- pecting a pass play, t et fhllback Eric Thiboutot scampM B yards for the touchdown. Afteer the PAT, the Dutchmen trail eel 7-,3 with 18 sec- onds to go in tbega.me. The game would end two pia ys later and even Union'srecor<llto 1-1. The Union cro-wd filled the stands and mMe, a~ 2:,800 came to support the Figh tiEg Dutchmen. Despite the torrential <i<Jwnpour by Hurricane Floyd, tlte imi on Frank getitout of my head,\ said Stumpf. It appeared to be a horrible call by the officiating crew, and afteJ look- ing at the film, it was clear Stumpf was D()t even close to the line of scrinim<lge, let alone three yards beyond that. Said Audino, \I am never critical of the officials, but in my mind~ after reviewing thetapes, it was clear it should have been a touchdown.\ The call would be the first of many missed holding calls as wen as b:ad calls by the officials. Two questionable calls by the officials came on the last play of the game. First, a mysterious pass interfer- ence was called, giving WPI 15 yards and a first d0wn on Union's 42-yardline. The second was a pass comple- tion that appeared to be out of bounds. On fourth and eight, Riccio threw a pass to the right sideline and his receiver stretched out, making a great catch, yet he did not keep the required one fooi in hounds. The. officials, seeing things differently, called the pass a completion, thus giving the En- gineers a first down. Although ii is hard to blame the officials, this game may have ended differently_ After starting on their own 14- yard line in the second quarter, U ni()n charged down the field and scored their only points ()f the game, a 42-yard field goal by sophomore Andrew Ruffo. R11ffo, the lone place kicker after class- mate Steve Morat was sidelined with mono, failed to conve11 on a 45-yard field goal in the second quarter, and a 44-yard field goal in the third quarter. Audin() said even if Morat was healthy, Ruffo would have kicked because he i:; Bailey field left fllO tTa.ces of such the distance kicker. weather. With ten1pe:ratures in the 70's and not a cloll!ldi li the sky, the day was meant for S~ptember Foot- ball. However, itn1ay have been the sun in the eyesof referee Will- iam Mara who·pemli2ed Union for an illegal man d.oV~rifield, thus ne- gating a 74-ya•d tollclldown recep- tion by senioll' l<ir,is Abdul-Aziz, from sophomore llert Gilbert, that cost the Dutchmen the game. Se- nior captain E. C. Statrlpfwas called for the penalty, foTa~-parently trav- eling beyond tile thee yards al- lowed for an o•ffepsiv-e linemen. \I felt horrible adl 11igllt. I couldn't Union's offense was only able to amass 226 total yards including 15-34 passing. The rushing attack was not much better. Union gained 122 yards, but lost 93 yards for a net of29 yards. Quarterbacks Ben Gilbert and Hank Papale were sacked nine times for a loss of93-yards. \There were a lot of mistakes made by a lot of people,\ stated Audino. Gil- bert, who was sacked eight of the nine times, was unable to get the ball off quickly, seemed uncomfort- able and simply threw it away. The Engineers had a very ag- SCORE BY QUARTER 1EAM UNJON WPI ! 0 0 2 3 -· - 3 0 0 0 ~ 0 7 F - 3 7 gressive defense. Added Audino, \They were very timely on theii 1Jiit:zes, md we weren •t able to get a bCJdy on a body.\ to pick up the bliztes, and WPI con- tinued to press.ute Gilbert during the second half. In any c~se, the offe1;1se managed to avet11-ge only- 2.9 yards per play. tJnionlheld the time of possession 33:23 to 26:37 but only converted 24% of their third downs. Sometimes there were missed blocks by tbe offensive line, some- times the rmming backs didn't pick upthe blitz, and sometimes Gilbert made bad reads. There were no adj11stments made during halftime Audino drew comparisons· t(} Oscar De La Hoya, who was win~ Junior Tight End Dan Bamford hauls in this catch for a 39~yard gain during the second quarter of Union's 7-3 Joss to WP!. 0 (fen sive Statistic£ PtlSsing ATT COMP INT Ben Gilbert Hank J>apale R 11 shing Jasper Mills Ben Gilbert Matt Laporta RDb Bennett R t!ceiving Brian 0 '0 on n e II BryanS le kes l d ris A b d u 1-A ziz Dan Bamford M ike T' h o m p s o n M ike Ito s e n t h a I J 0 h 11 If i·l1 Devon W imbetly he Attanasio George Kandirakis Ra.d n ey Wood 33 15 0 ATT GAIN 20 63 12 36 2 5 4 8 CATCHES YARDS 9 92 2 7 4 45 1 3 9 1 0 TD'S 0 0 0 0 Defensive Statistics Tackles !NT Sacks 5 0 0 6 0 0 3 .a I 5 .0 0 7 2 0 7 .0 0 5 0 0 ning the fight for the first nine rounds, and played conservatively the last three rounds and lost. Union won the first 59:42 m:inu.tes, but lostthe game in theiastrninute, when itc()urtted the most. Aziz's touchdown, in Audino's milld, completely changed the te:rllJ?O of the game and burt Union. Audino strives for the offense to 11Ul:plays without flaw 90%ofthe fune, while lastweek itwas only 50%. Audino concluded, ~'It was. a beartbl\eak~ ing loss.\ Four years ago, Union lost a de~ fensive battle to St. Lawrenc~.., 9-6; then went on to win eight straight games and go onto the NCAA playoffs. Union's season is far from over. Their defense is just as strong as the 1995 team, an<l the offense is soliQ, despite last week's performance and capabilhy to scQre 45 points as they did against St. Lawrence. Saturday, the Fighting}~rutch­ men travel to Geneva to 'take on Hobart. Last year, the Statesmen beat Union 19-14 during homecom- ing weekend. Hobart willhavea. similar offense to WPI,. a strong blit:zing defense which pressures th.e quartertack. Hobart lost, 32-2(), to Dickinson two weeks ago, and :had a bye week last week. Union, clearly nCJt in~ timidated by lastweek 1 s loss, is out to prove skeptics wrong a11d im- prove their record to 2-1. The game begins at 1:00 and came be heard live on WRUC,. 89.7, with pre-game starting at 12: 30. YARDS TD 'S 197 0 0 0 LONG 8 13 4 5 LONG 26 10 22 39 Pass BrUp TD's 0 () 0 0 0 0 5 0 3 0 5 0 3 0

of to ek .7, ' ' \. ~ .~ ':: ' r \- '. • ' Hard Work Pays off . for Women's Volleyball at Union Invitational ~y Kristen Nobles Contributing Writer This past weekend, the Uni~n Colleg.e V ()lleyball t~am stepped onto the ceurtlooking better .than ever, in more ways tha:t;J: one. Sporting their bew uniforms, th~ Dutchwomen amazed their fans. with awesome plays, long rallies and shiny sp;:1ndex. Was it the new unifontJ.s that led to the team's incredible play? . ' . Senim Co-Captain Johanna Enger doesn't think so. \We utilize our practice ti,me very well. We lrnow what we have to work on and then we concent:rate on it. ff you prac- tice serve receive drills for 45 min~ utes during every practice, it be- comes so natural. When you are put into a game situation, you can't do anything.but do it right.\ Becau~e of the hard work the team puts itltP every practice, the Dutchwomen placed secon4 in the Union Invitational for the fttst time in three years. A11y coach and any player would be happy with an accomplishment 1ik~'this one. the teamfo11ght hard~ Potsdam de- livered to Union its frrstloss ofthe tournament.· After an energizing 1Ul1ch break, Union came back strong with a four game win over Piattsburgh. Union's big win against Fbttshurgh e,nsured the · Dutch women a spot in the ch~m­ piort$hip game against :Potsdam. Union was detenni:ned to redeem themselves from their o+tly loss in the tol1ffiament. The Dutchwomen began the match with incredible attitude and desire t() win. It was apparent after two games that the lop.gday of volleyball had taken a toll on both tea~s, espe- cially Union. Once again, Potsdam emerged victorious and b~came th~ .undefeated charnpi()ns of the 1999 Union Invitatienal. Union was happy with their play throughout the day even though th.ey placed second. Enger had more-to add aboutthisyear's team · and season, \We have a very de- temuned team. We-have the· play- ers wh.g can ·make things -happen and that is exactly what we are go- ing to do. No one gets down on - th.emselves or anyone else. Every- one is always positive, whether on the court or on the bench, boost- jag the team's attihlde and confi- dence.\ QI:lltlCLTrhhmi~:ti~ • September 23, 1999 • Page 17 Women's Soccer Delivers Utica 9-0 Loss Team Members on Top of UCAA Rankings by Meridith Chace Contributing Writer The Union Women,s Soccer Team has come out strong to ~tart theu season. On Tuesday after:- . noon, the Outchwomen rom]Jed Utica, 9-0, bringing theirrecor(i to . a solid 3-0. 'Missy Matusewic£ wasted no . time and quickly scored her first of three goals two minutes into the • game off of an Abby llarris assist Har:ris followed suit with an unas- sisted goal, and Matusewicz .in- creased the lead by one Jl10re with . he.r second goal of the half. Freshman Abby West found the net with an assist from feili>w classmate Nod Lupfer. These two girls paired up again a few mim:ttes · later when Lupfer scored off.of an ass.ist from West, givingUnion an immense 5-0 advantage as -they . euterecl the second half. The second h.alfsaw g~~ls from · Harris, Katie Smi~~ Matusewicz and Marie _Maurer. 'The Dutchwotpen dearly do!llinated possession of the ball tbrou.gl.J.()ut the game~ They were fortunate · . percentage, as this standout senior enough to play all four of their has not let a single ball e.nter the goalkeepers, who combined for net thus far. only two saves a,gainst the Utica The team dearly has high hopes offense. for the future, but as Sophomore Thusfar,theUnion Women.have Mar,garet K.ostro said, \We &re outscored their opponents, 17- 1. staying focused on what we are With all eleven of their starters back doing right now and trying to im- fromlast season, the team is look- prove and build on last season.\ ing to improve on last season's 13- Coach Brian Speck is very con- 1-1 record. IftheDutchwomencan fident in his team's potential and play well aga,inst their strongest motivation after not making opponents, they could be looking NCAA's last year. Speck stated, at a UCAA title and an automatic \We have a bitter taste in our NCAA bid. mouths from not making the The statistics in favor of Union NCAA's last year. .. the starters are are. · overwhelming. The all getting the opportunity to rid Dutchwomen are frrsf in the UCAA themselves of that taste.\ league in scoring, even though Speck feels that with starting they have onlypl~yed three games, seniors Samantha Ryall, Shannon as opposed to mostUCAA teams, Powers, and captains Jaymee Wil- who have 'played five to seven son and Abby Harris, the team has league games already. a great deal ofleadership, experi- Matusewiczholds the third place ence and athleticism to help them spot in the league for point scor- attain their goals. ing, and West and Harris are tied Union is scheduled to travel to at si,;;th, respectively. Samantha Hamilton College on Wednesday Ryall is second in assists, with and Vassar College on Saturday. three thus far, and goalie Shannon They will then return to Dutchman Powers holds the top spots for territ()ry on September 29 to play goals a.gainst ave.rage and save New Paltz. Head coa:.chLeslie Bogucki says that the team's play is attributed to a number ofaspects which in- Clude the skills of the players, their desire to win and their desire to play; ·i-- ,~ ..... :_- . •• \''~t~: ::.;_. c • Thtl team sees each match, each · ·· Can't make the game? Listen to WRUC, 89. 7 for LIVE coverage of fa,otball games. Union takes Not o:rily is it their desire to play, ~ut it is th.eir desire to play to- gether as a team. The camarade- rie on the team is amazing and no one member ofthe team wants to let another member down so each person works her hardest. , Union's long day of volleyball began at ten o'clock with a win against Russel1 Sage. The team started off slow but fmally picked u~ the pace of their play to beat the Gators in four games. In their second match of the day they -faced Poisdam. Although game, and each point as a rnoment t() learn and improve. This week- end was a learning experience for th.e players and the team as a whole. The team plans to give it tlteir allmeverypractice and game. Union's first regular ~eason match is sched11led for September 21 against New Paltz. Last year New Paltz beat Union, but tlris year tile tables can be turned. The match will begin at seven o'clock in the Field House. Cheer on the team and admire their new uniforms. Did 1 mep.tion they wear spandex? Calvert Se11ior Captain Johanna Enger defies gravity to block a Plattsburgh spike on the Hobart Statesmen at 1:00 Saturday, with pregame at 12:3 0. Listen in as the Dutchmen seek revenge after last year's 19-14 Homecoming loss. SUNY Albany Falls to Union Rugby Allanson with One Try, Two Comversions by Ailne Bishko Staff Writer The Union Women's Rugby Team started their season off strong and continued a winn.ing. tradition when they crushed SUNY Albany last Saturday at home. The team was scheduled to play an A -side game against Hartwick, and a B-side game against Albany, but when HartWick could not get enough players together, Albany agreed to fill in and compete against Union in both games. From the beginning of the gillt1e, Union dominated the fwld, C()n- centrating their play aear Albany's try zone. Union's first score of the season was t()uc::hed down by the serum half \Birdsocks\ who broke thr()ugh a heavy defense to score. _ As Union continued to pressure Albany, Rebecca Walsh managed to fmd a hole in the Albany de- fense and score the second try of the game. Although Union's bail handling was a little sloppy in the first half, the team worked very well together, and generally kept pos- session of the ball. The break at half time was pro- longed quite a bit due to injury. A girl ftomAlbany's team was taken to Ellis Hospital by ambulance with a broken rib. It was at this time that the referee announced he wouldnotstayforthewomen's B- side game, so rookies from both teams were substituted in for the majority of the second half. Albany got their first and only try ofthe game early in the second half, yet this did nothing to alter the concentration of the Dutcllwomen. Union came back strong though, as Michelle Stein had a break up the sideline to score Union's third try. Toni Allanson and rookie Becky Scrimo each scored a try as well, running straight through Albany's poor defense. Uuion made all four of their con- versions, as Toni Allanson and Caitlin Callahan each kicked in two. Albany failed to capitalize on their sole opportunity for a conversion. The final score was Union 33 , Albany 5. Needless to say, the team is pleased with their perfor- mance, ~nd would like to congratu late the rookies on their first game. Horing for another win, Union willtake on Colgate this Saturday. on Colgate•s home ground. Come and sllpport the Dutchwomen as they work toward another Rugby State Championship. -· ..

Page 18 • September 23, 199() • (!!ill:lrnrhintst!ei Women's Cross- Country Places Fifth at Middlebury by Beth Broga11 Contributing Writer The Union Women's Cross Country Tearn ·ran the hilly paths ofMiddlebury, Vermontthis past weekend wl!ere they competed against a total of 96 individuals from eight o\ther teams, including Middlebury, Keene State, St. Lawrence, Amherst, Norwich, Massachusetts College of Liberal Arts, Johnson State, and Castleton State. S:()phQmore Laura Henriquez were jl.lst 13 seconds apart, also showing a: .strong team eff()rt. Junior Alex :?()dgorny, freshmen Mitsuyo · Shimura and Beth Brogan, and jllni()r Jennie Lubarta.lso turned in excellent perfonnances. Coach Charlie Casey was· satisfied with the r,esults of the meet,. stating, \When our runnets were in a position to pass pe()ple in the last half mile they generally did s(). That says things about · improved conditioning as well as .people running srnart .. They were · patient in running this difficult Dutchwoman of The Week: Missy Matusewicz · Junior Missy Matusewicz is currently ranked third in the U CAA league in point · scoring and fourth in game-winning goals in the Women's Soccer standings. This past week, she had a hat trick in Union\s 9-0 win over Utica College. After an inspirational bus ride thanks to the one and only Prefontaine, the Union team proved that they too, ha~e what it takes to will. The Dutchwomen placed an impressive fifth out of the nine teams which competed at this meet with a total of 134 points. course.\ C 1 · · · ongratu atlons Mtssy! Hopefully, conditioning will 1~-~\----~--~---\'----~~-~-~-~~---~---~---~~-~ Matusewicz drives the bcrJl into the opposing team 'st?rritory. The Uni<>n team was led by veterans Amy Slabich and Glelll1a Malcolm, who placed twenty- second and twenty-fifth, respectively. Slabich and Malcolm were closely followed by rookie sophomoreCaitlin Louriero, who placecl twenty-seventh with a time of22:37.6. Superstar freshmen Katie Higley and Megan Michelis placed twenty-ninth and thirty-first, rounding off the top five runners for Union. The top five runners have the potential to run in a strong pack, which can do damage to opposing teams in upcoming large meets. Freshman Jen Rose and continue to improve over the next f~w weeks. This past week the cross-country team had a number ~f difficult workoqts to help . .prepare for the upcoming UCAA championships, which are being h.eldOctober 2. · The team is looking forward to . .!uving currently injured members Ashley Rinear, Carrie Welch and E·lyse Levy, as well as newcomer Jen Gabriel, compete in the next meet- The final results: 22. Amy Slahich (21 :20.1 ); 2.5.Glenna Malcolm (21 :42.6); 27. Caitlin Louriero (22:37.6); 29. Katie Higley (22·:45.3 ); 31. Megan Micllelis (23:17.7); 36. JenRose · (:25 :33.8 ); 3 7. Laura Henriquez (25:46.4); Aleksancra Podgomy (16:.14.1); Mit.suyo Shimura (:27:31.5); Beth Brogan (28!33.2); Jennie Lubart (30: 11.3 ). ... Dutchman of The Week: Joe Attanasio Joe had two intercep- tions against Worces- ter Polytechnic -Insti- tute in Union ''s game on Saturday. He also contributed seven tackles and three pass- breakups f0or the Dutchman defensive effort. Congratulations Joe! Attanasio helps George Kr.r.ndirakis bring down a WPI running back. Field Hockey Shuts out Wesleyan 4-0· Dutchwomen Will Play UCAA Opponent Saint Lawrence on Friday by Cory Kiefer Contributing Writer Entering 1beir third week of practice, one week behind most two-semester colleges in the area, Union College's Dutchwomen Field Hockey team has begun to dominate the turf. With their second week of UCAA game play, the team looks strong and only seems to be grow- ing stronger every time they step onto the field. They began last week with two important games facing them. one against Hamilton College. a fellow UCAA competi- tor. and one against Wesleyan College. On Wednesday afternoon, the team travele<i to Clinton, NY to take on a tough team from Hamilton College. The game was closely matclled and aggressively fought on b()th sides. The first goal of the game came from Hamilton in the frrst half. Though Union continued to dominate the rest of the half, they were unable to place a shot in the net, thus leaving the score at 1-0 as they closed the frrst half. Union picked up their pace a bit in the . •. '· ---~ .. ·~ ••• ~ A Union Field Hockey player manilvers the ball towards .the net. second half, and quickly scored off o.fa penalty comer shot. The goal was craftily place<! in the net by S:usie Bruderman and assisted hy C<>ry Kiefer. Both teams were unable to score ir~tlle remainder ofthe second half, leaving the game in a l-1 tie, which forced a sudden death overtime. Union came out strong in over- time to dorninate the field, but un- fortunately Hamilton was able to score the frrst goal ·off a fast break, ending the game in a 2. 1 score in favor ofHamilton. Saturday broqght on a new day and a new opponent for the Dutchwomen. The team stepp-ed out onto home turf to fa·ce Wesleyan College. The game seemed to be evenly .matched, but Union would soon prove other- wise. About eight minutes into the first half, Yvonne Turchetti brought in Union's first goal off a penalty stroke. Now with added drive, Union began to d()minate the game. Towards the end ofthe frrsthalf, Cory Kiefer drove in Union's sec- ond gnal assisted by Alison St.ruzziro. Urrionwentinto the sec- mid halfleading, 2-0, h()Wever, they were still determined t() dominate the entire game. Midway through tne second half, Terra Lederehouse, assisted by Susan Jbyal, placed the third gbat'in. Union continued to work ·hard, a:nd their fourth and final goal was carefully executed by Susan Joyal, making the final score 4-0 in Union's favor. The shutout was awarded to netminder Jessica Wells, who faced only two shots on goal from the Wesleya11 of- fense. The Dutch women's 11ext game is at Williams College. They can be seen playing on Union 1 ~ home turf on FridaySeptember24at 4:00PM., when they are scheduled to take on the St. Lawrence Saints. Please come a show your support!!!

. \\• Spcrts O.hnu:nri'ri£ttsis • September 23~ 1999 • Page 1 9 Men's SoCcer Triumphs Over Hamilton 2-1 ·Dave Alperen Scores Game- Winner with Six Minutes Left by Rachel Bu}{:owski -Sports Editor The Union Collyge Men's S()c- cer 'teamhadan exciting and highly competiiive w(!e~ with two very close games, both decided by one point and against fellow UCAA competitors. On Wednesday afternoon, the Dutchmen found themselves up against a very skilled and much quickerteaan from Hamilton College in front ofa sizeable and entlmsi- astic home crowd. From the be ginning of th:is game, it seetned as if Hatni:J.ton couldbave ultimately prevailed, but Dutch:mar.t Aaron Sabin scored the first goal ofthegame at 14:18 off of anassistfto:tnJimFryar. Fryarman- aged to break away ftom the Hamilton defen~e, creating a two on one situation in favor of Union. He then .passed the ball to Sabin, who slipped it in the net, giving Union tb.e lead; 1-0. gCJal was highly questionable, as there was clearly a Hamilton handball in front of the net right before the goal was scored. This blatant handball was never called lly the referee, and the goal st<>od, making the score 1-1. 1 The majmity ofthe second half was scoreless, and it looked as if tile game migbt tun into a sud- den death overtime. But with less tHn six minutes remaining ih the game, Dutchman Forward Dave Alperin scored to give Union the win, 2-1. Aaron Sabin is accred- ited with the assist on this incred- i&le game-winning goal. On Saturday, Union traveled liP to Hobart College to play the Statesmen. It was a primarily de- fensive battle, aad Hobart scored the game's ftrst goal in the first llalf, giving them a l-0 'lead. Hobart almost made the score 2- (), but AJ Shedd made,in Coach Jeff Guinn's words, 1 'one of the most outstanding saves I have ever seen by a college-level goalie.\ offense to try and tie the game and launch it into overtime. Union is already offto ·an im- ,pressive start this season with a 2-2 record, which currently gives them a fourih place standing in the UCAA league. In addition to this, AJ Shedd is ranked as the fourth-best goalie in the league, registering a .85 save perce.ntage, and Aaron Sabin and Dave Alperin are thir- teenth and fourteenth, respec- tively, in point scoring for the Dutchmen. Union will take to the road in their next five games. Coach Guinn i~ optimistic about the up- coming games, stating, \We will have plenty of chances over the next couple of weeks to play to our highest capabilities.\ It looks. as if the next few weeks for the Dutchmen will be filled with in- tense competition and exciting match-ups as they look to im- prove on the it record. Iiamiiton quickly rebounded fr()m their d:en'bk when freshman forw~rd Diinitry Maurice headed the ball into the Union net ju~t be- yond the reach of AJ Shedd. Th.is F'r~shman Suhail Syed craftily moves the ball around The one-goal lead would re- main for the rest of the game, de- Sj)ite a valiant eff()rt by the Union Come and watch these out· standing athletes en route to a hopeful playoff berth. Fan sup- port is always appreciated at the home games. a Hamilton defender. · Tennis.Has . . Succes·sful Week .on theRo·ad by JesSica Miller Contributfng Writer The Union Women's Tennis Team had a busy week with lots of tennis and traveling. The Putcll.women had three away matcll.es at Hamilton, Clarkson,®d St. Lawrence. With such a hectic schedule, all there was time for was tenriis, tennis and more ten- nis. At the beginning of the week, the team was still getting warmed up. On September 15, they faced Hamilton, a very competitive team. Despite Union.'s l()ss by a score of 7-2, the team played some close matches. - The team was happy to at least comeaway with two doubles wins. Captain Cassie Lawton and Liz Agar took number on,e doubles and Megan Denefrio and Jackie Mason won at number three. With this loss behind them, th-e Dutchwomen were even more de .. tennined to play their best in their two upcoming matches scheduled later that week. Two days later these women were mo~e than warmed up; tb.ey were het. On September 17 they demolishedClarkson on their oVIll turf with an overaU score -of s .. t. Dutchwomen Cassie Lawton, Becky Rubin, Susan Y oo, Liz Agar, and Megan Denefrio all swept their opponents in the five singles matches. They followed up by winning the frrst three doubles matches as. well. The winning doubles teams include Lawton-Agar, Yoo- Rubin, and Mason.-Denefrio. Sophomore Liz Agar spoke about this match as a turning point for the team. \Our win on Friday against Clarkson really gave us our confidence back af- ter losing our last two matches. It got us back on track.\ The Dutchw.omen had yet an- other match on September 18 at St. Lawrence. It was a fierce com- petition but Union was victorious over St. Lawrence with the close score of 5-4. Winners illclude Lawton at numb~r one singles, Rubin at number two, Yoo at three, Denefrio at five, and Lawton and Agar at number one doubles. Lawton's thl'ee set singles match was instrumental in clenching the win for the team. It was a hatd match but the Dutchwomen pulled through and ended the weekend with a record of2-2. Union students should get ready to see the Dutchwomen in action for the ftrst time when they play Oneonta on September 22 on Union's home courts at3:00. The team will also be playing in the Rolex Tournament at Hobart and William Smithover the weekend. Make sure to come out and sup- port the Dutchwomen as they dominate their opponents on Wednesday. Men's Cross-Country Leaves Competition in the Dust Scott Leads Team to Impressive Finish by Frank Filiciotto Co11tributing W1·iter MIDDLEBURY, Vermont-Mak- ing the three hour trip to Vermont was the first obstacle that con- fronted the Union College Men's and Women• s Cross Country Teams this pastS(Lturday. Then, ofcourse, came the grueling race filled with rolling hills and. uneven terrain, in- tending to baffle any runner who stepped foot on the course. Butour runners did not succi.lmb to any ofthe barriers that stood in front of them. Instead,. everyone proudly wearing the Union singlet ran their heart out, leaving the dust behind them and in the other teams' faces. Afterwards, boththemen's and women's teams enjoyed an ex- cellent dinner at Rosie's in Middle~ bury, complimentS ofUnion College. One hour after the women's race began, the men's battle launched in to action. Approximately three ki- lometers longer in distance than the women's coarse, the men's race aim- lessly wanders through golf courses and rustic trails twice, much to everyone's dismay. The second loop proved to l>e a harsh reality for the men as they scaled the gr~sy hills and stamped through tl:t.e \hurricane-made lakes.\ Keene State was the power- house in Saturday's meet, finish- in.g wjth three ru1111ers in the top tell. The Union men's team finished fifth overall in tbe team scoring beh:ind a number of excellent teams including Keem.e, Middlebury, Saint Lawrence, and Amherst. Leading the way for the men was Sellior Captain Kenny Scott. In his fmal race at Middlebury, Kenny's r~tce was filled with heart and soul. He fmished twenty-eighth overall in. a spectaculartime of29:23. Freshman Frank Filiciotto fol- lO>wed in Kenny's footsteps, finish- in:S in thirty-second place with a time of 29:30. Sophomore Matt C(Jnnely, improvingeveryweek, ran a ]Jersortal best 29:50 on the rug- ged eight kilometer course. He fln- islled in thirty-ninth. j()hn \Niemo'~ Nieman con- ~l uced his race in forty-eighth place, forty-three seconds behind CtOnnely. This proved to be a per- son:al best for '~Niemo\ as well. Matt Weber rounded out the scor- ing by fmishing in sixtieth place overall in a time of3l :34. Union's sixth man was John Houghton (31:39) in sixty-second. Our sev- enth man was Joe Kelmanovich (32:03) in sixty-seventh place over- all. Juniors Steve Schuler (32:34), Terry Chang (34:30), IUld Jerald Whittington (34:38) also performed in a fantastic manner as did Ben Waite (32:35), J()e Kilcullen (33:38), Nick Jones (35: 18), Don Schaeffer (35:32), AtsuKaneko (37:00), Dan O'Leary (42:57), and Asad Choudhry (45:45). Coach Casey believed that Sat- urday demonstrated \good effort for the first large meet of the sea- son.\ ile also commented that ev- eryone \had anexcellent finish due to a conservative fist mile.\ Over- all it was a successful day for the Dutchmen. The team has next weekend off but then will travel to Saratoga for the Conference Championships on October2. Both teams a wait the arrival of the new uniforms, which should provide some additional inspira- tion for the meets to follow.



',,_, :,t ,..,L --t '. .'), ·~,: •' The·n '.;,·· '\1?;{:\'. .·_ £1·_,•-·e:,·_··n·· .,·o-· -r--s··· ·a-• · .u. -R····y·:. n,l''· 'h 4 'f.,'a'~·;_;.·~r··-··~·-.<~. 1'):.~_-· ~o· ·. :~~·:~n> · t·· h-·· ··.· ·nji·-'·· -~-- ·;;,'d·· ::·:·_, ..... ···.,,,;. ·.·:_,···,.·,·_·_,···· ...:J j . . · · ·. • , • ..,~ .· ·· . u .,~; .-.;£1 · ... · ·~JJ U1 · rY . ·. . · . · -·~ . \c.-t;·~ .. · .... : ·. ·,,···... ' ....•.. ·, .. · ·~· .' .. ,, ', .·. ~. - ~-; .. :.- ·. .~ :-.\ r,· ., •. . : • \ ·'· ..

I 1 !: ,. l . I ''Defeat is n·ot ~h·e worst .offailures. Not to have t'ied is the true failure. \ · . . - · · · . ..;George E. W oodbeny VolumeCXXIX, Number III · Tl1e Stulewl Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 _ September 3.0; 1999 This Week News: Students Attend Clinton -Fundraiser Page4 Features: Looking Downward with Alex B. Page 10 World News: Seniors Kick-offYear of Memories byMik~Iger Staff Write.,. This past Thursday ov~erl 50 se- niors gathered in Old Ch;apel for im evening of Wine a.nd Cheese. The event was the f'1rst in m num- berofsenior activities tl:.aitwill be held throughout the year to cel- ebrate-the Class of20()() 's finaL year at Union College. Class officers for tlhi s year, Karen De Vito, Jennifer Caruso, and LizKaier, organizedthe JJi~htwhich, along with wine and <be-ese, in- clud.ed fresh fruit salad and an as- sortment of dips. Senio•r B-rian Mitchell also provide(i live music for ltllio enjoy. The evening began at :8:0·0 PM, with just a few seniors sb O\Wing up rigllt on time, which <<JU:sed the class officers to feat that people may not show up. Aaron Seliger!fC Karen DeVito, Jen CaiJuso and Sarah Kowalsk.i socialize during the first wine and che£-separty of the year for t~e> senior class. event will be similar to the wine and cheese except it will be a rnore ca- sual event and the menu will change accordingly. The Senior class officers are also planning on having Wednesday evening \get-tosethers\ a.ttheVan Dyke restaurant and Thursday evening events at Chet 's, the Union College bar. However, these events will not be limited to restaurants and bars. Activities such as a senior class capture the flag garne and count- down-to-graduation celebra,tions are being planned as well McCain Launches Presidential Bid · · , _, However,astimewent1J~people together friends who norma 1ly fmd it difficuldo see each other:. cheese] went ,.-eally well Brian Mitchell's-rnusjc provided us with a great atrnosphne, and the event gave an of us a chance to see people and socialize.\ ·the officers are also beginning to work on a senior class ,gift, and corrui).ittees are being formed to help determine what tbat gift should be. All seniors are being encouraged to partic1pate in the selection process, and those inter- ested in doing so should contact Karen DeVito with any ideas they might have. Page 17 Sports: Union Football Beats Hobart 20-14 ·Page 19 Inside Campus News - 3 Opinions .. 8 Features -10 A & E -14 World News -16 Technology - 18 Sports -19 Our E-mail concordy@ vu.union.edu began to slowly drift in aad by 9:30 PM Old Chapel was filied'With se- niors who were enj o~i II g the chance to spend time witlli people they do not see as often as they would like to. With most seniors fin&intg them- sel\es with new andtime~y:onsurn­ - ing responsibilities andrllalll.y oth- ers returning fromjunioryte:ar terms abroad, Thursday even.in~.lb1rought - . Marin Richardson remar:ked,. \I fmally got see all these peo_l)le who I don't normally get to tall t(). It was great.\ By the end of the night every- thing was going very !\ffiDOt~ly, with all who attended menttion.ing that they enjoyed the pleasant at- mosphere. Senior class president Karen De Vito agreed. \I think it [the senior wL!le and Senior wine !ln<l-=;heese is a tra- dition at Uni()n, an-<1 the class of- ficers' plan t0i-fuo1d more of them througnout true next three terms. Along with this 'event, numerous others are bein.:g planned to help the current semi ors celebrate their final year at Unt()tJ. College. One With fall tenn nov. in full swing, the year appears to be going by very quickly. Senior class. activi- ties attempt to give people a chance to relax, see people they do not normally see, and participate in different activities. This past Thursday kicked off the first of many events that members of the class of2000 will he sure to remem- ber after graduation. New Theme House~ Ad,d to Seward Commu.nity by GinaCaiJ1paneBI:l Staff Writer Along with the physical renova- tion on Seward A venue, tbeie .has als() been an internal remCJvation. In addition to the apartrnenJs. avail- able to upper-classstuden:ts,there are also four new thern!f ho()uses. Generally theme housesb.-ve been located in on campus IIO.rrnitory buildings, or a part tben•of. However, with the p.UJch.ase of the .Seward A venue propccrtks, the campus can now add lllore of-the hotisc Into the thcmehD U5t'. In a conversation w ilh l~ac hael Wagner, the new AssislzantBirec- tor of Residence Life, tb~ secrets hcl1ind these ncv.' t1H~ n-.c hnuses were discovered. The ideas for these theme hou~cs were all pr.ol)o&e.d last spring. Tf1e first.huu~c is tbcSym- p'Ostllm. lhrec sophomore ·meo founded this house and it was ink11dco to be a tool to proinote iu:tel~cdual conversation outside oftll.t class- room. · The house invites profes- A:ar~nSeligerrrc Seward I heme ~loll;se~ add tv tli ver~it)' .or;z rt:U.t!Lpus. sors to weekly dinilcrs on Wl:clm:s- days ami usually presents a lupic for discussion at these· <iinners. Recently they had a discussion focusing on sex in elltertiluunent titled .. Do I make you horny ha:byT Their events are all advertised on posters Jround ,c·ampus and they cncnu rage in.tncstcd stndl''nts tn attend. Th addition t.o tnl' ~ymposium~ there arc tw<J fmcign latiguagc houses also located on Seward Avenue. There: is a Spanish house and a German House. Bot:ll houses try to maintain the house rule that only the foreign language may be spoken in the house. The teaching assistants for both languages also live in the theme houses. The Spanish house in particular host dinners that .nc open to the campus, whichattempt to focus on issues of di\\Crsity at Union College. Finally, there is Seneca House. Thi~ house was founded in part by the \\'0mcn's Pninn. :md it tric> tn '-'nriccntratc mt '-V(l\1\t'll·s lS'>lH'.., 111 ttHiay·s SOCJCt}' fht.'\' had illl'il fir~t open hnu SL' bst \\ L't'k 1 lll '-;t·p IL'mhcr 2 '\ TI1cy invited the bo!lty z:md the student h(Hh fil tl1i-, c1 ''l1t. '' hi,·h showcased aspeakt?r from Planned Parenthood seeking voluntC\\rrs for their Escort Service. This pa~t TucsJay n ming thcs- h.tLl.llh'tl1L'r open L1innn and ,1 grti1k, 1 ,]i·xu sion ahout wnnH.'n 's issue<; on <Jm · pus nL\:-.1 \\ ishc\ tn all of the~<' theme hou~cs fur tlic..·i r -;uc,·c'\ .111.1 growth as a part l)fthcTnion rol- lege connnunity!

''Defeat is not the worst of failures. Not to have tried is the true failure.'' -George E. Woodberry This Week News: Students Attend Clinton Fundraiser Page4 Features: Looking Downward with Alex B. Page 10 [World News: I McCain 1 Launches I I I I I Presidential Bid Page 17 Sports: Union Football Beats Hobart 20-14 Page 19 Inside Campus News - 3 Opinio11s - 8 Features -10 A & E-14 World News -16 Technology- 18 Sports -19 Our E-mail concordy@ vu.uniou. edu Seniors Kick-offY ear of Memories by Mike Iger Staff Writer This past Thursday over 15 0 se- niors gathered in Old Chapel for an evening of Wine and Cheese. The event was the first in a num- ber of senior activities that will be held throughout the year to cel- ebrate the Class of2000's final year at UnionCollege_ Class officers for this year, Karen DeVito, Jennifer Caruso, and Liz Kaier, organized the night which, along with wine and cheese, in- cluded fresh fruit salad and an as- sortment of dips. Senior Brian Mitchell also provided live music for all tn l'!lJO). The evening began at 8:00PM, with just a few seniors showing up right on time, which caused the class officers to fear that people may not shO\v up. However, as time went by people be-gan to slowly drift in and by 9:~0 P\1 Old Chapel ,.,.·as filled with sc- ni ors who were enjoying the chance tel spend time with people th<~..'Y dP not sl.'e as uften a~ the) \\ ould I ike to. \\'ith must Sl'lli(ll'l finlling llll'Ill- s~ hes with nc\\ anJ time-consum- ing rc.:~ponsibilitiL\~ and 111;.!11) oth- cr~ returning f'rom junior) c.: Jr term~ ahwaJ, Thursday evening brought Karen De-Vito, Jen Caruso and Sarah Kowalski sociali::e during the first wine and cheese party of the year forth£! senior class. together frienos who nom1ally find it difficult to see t:a<:h other. :'\.tarin RicharJson renurkeJ, \[ finally got ~l.'e .all these.: people who I don't normally get to talk to. It was great.\ Dy the eaJ of the night nc..:ry- thing \\as goiing 'ery ~mouth!), \\ ith Jll \\ hu J ttcnJc.:J llh.:ntiuninc, that thc.:y cnju;ed the pka~..1nt J.t- mo~phen:. Seo1iur -..:las~ prc.:siJenl KaH:ll De\.itu ~t;rt.:cd. \I think it [ th~ st.:nior wine and cheese] went really well. Brian Mitchell's music provided us with a great atmosplll'Tt', Jlllf the t.'\ err! gJ\'C.: all of us a c.:hancc to ~t't.' people and socialit'l·\ Senior wine.: and ·:hccse is a tra- Llition at I 'nion, and thL· cia\\ llf- ficer~' plan t'1 h1ld more of tl1l'l11 tlH\lllghuut thl· nnt thrc.:L' krrrh :\long \\ ith tlri.., C\ L'nl, mtnrcrnu~ utl1cr~ all' hL·ing pLilllll'tl tll lll·lp thc <.'llnL'Ilt -,~..·n ior:-; <.\ekhr Jk tlll.'il final year at l'nion ('l)lkgc.: One.: event will be simibr to the wine and cheese except it will be a more ca- sual event and the menu will change accordingly. The Senior cbss officers an: also planning on having Wednesday evening \get-togt:thers\ at the \'an Dyke restaurallt a!ld Thursd:1y evening events at Chet's, the Union College bar. However, these en:nts \'ill not be limited to restaurants and bars. Activities such as a senior class capture the f1ag game and count- dO\vn -to-gradu~t ion ce !t:brations are bemg planncJ as well. The officers '-Ire ~tl~o begmnmt: to work on a senior class gift, and committees arc hl.' ing formed tn h..:lp J.:tcrnun~ A!tJ! dt.1! t;;J:! should be. All seniors are bemg encouraged to parttcrpate rn the selection proce~ :,, and those inter- ested in doing so sho;mld contact K<.tren De\\ ito '\ itl1 .my iJ.e;.!s the; migl1t have. \\'itli f..tll ll'IIllllU\\ in full:,\\ in.;;, the.: )t.:.u appe<.~r:, IL> bl' going b.) \ery Y,uickly. SL\niDI da:o:, <-~L'ti' i- t i e :, a t t em p t t t) g i 1 ~· !h: o p I c.: ..1 .:h..ill(l' It> IL'I..I\, ~<..'~' f'l'(l['k thl') th• not l.HliiJr;Jil) '>L'I . .'. JI.Hl p..11 ti~.. if'..! II: in ,liff',·! ,·nt ..~~ ti\ iti,_-, TJii, !'·'' 1 Tlllll'\dJ) J..i<.\kl·d t•ff tilL· fir-.t ,,f 111..111) ~·\ l'llh thJ t Illt\l11hL·t' of th~,· cl..i'l'> uf~()()0 \\ill h·..,llll' tPil'Illl'lll bet .tftLT gtaduat i•111. New Theme Houses Add to Seward Community by Gina Campanella Staff Writer Along with the physical renova- tion on Seward A venue, there has also been an internal renovation. In addition to the apartments avail- able to upper-c:lass students, there arc also four nt:\.\ theme houses. <Jcncrally themt.: houses haH been located in on campus dormitory buildings, or apa.rt thereof. However, with the purchase of the Seward A venue properties, the campus can now add more of the house into the theme house. In a conversat;ion with Rachael Wagner, the new Assistant Direc- tor of Residenc.:e Life, the secrets hl.'h md the~e new theme hnust·~ were discovered. The ideas for these theme houses were all proposed last spring. TI1e first house is the Sym- posiUm. Three sophomore men founded thi~ hou~e and it was intendt:tl to bl.' a tool to promote intdledual mn\cr:,ation out~ide of the class- room. The hous;e invites profcs- Aaron Seliger lTC Se wurd theme: lwu~L!s tidd tv din:rsity un campw .. sors to wecklyJit1ncrs on Wcdnc~­ days and usual!)' prc.:smts a tupic for discussion at these dinners. Recently they had a discussion focu!>ing on soc.:x. in entertainment titled ''Do I m.nl-.e )'DU homy bJby''\ TI1cir events <.~rc all advertised ()11 posters awurlll c.lmpus and the) encourage intercslt'd ~tutknts to attend. In addition to the Symposium, tllL'rc .Ire.· [\\ 1l flll eigrr l.l!rgll.lgL' hou~e~ Jbt• ll•<-\JIL'd on Sc\ .ud A venue. TIK·re is a Spanish ht,us~· and a German House. Both houses try to maintain tile house ru lc that only the foreign language may he spoken in the house. The teaching ~-;sistants for hnth languages also 1tw In the thcnw houses. The Spanish house 111 parti<.\u!Jr ho'it dmncr~ that .lie' open to the ~..·ampus. \\ hkh Jlll'IllJ't to fncus on t-;sur\ t~r ,ti\ l'I \It\ .It l'nton ( 'olk~c· Fmally, therL' 1-; Scn~..·c.t I h>thl' This house \\J::- founLlcd in pJrt b) the.: \\\ollll'll·.. r .111011, <Jilt! it tric-.. to concentrate on V\llllll'll·, i\\'ll''- 111 today\-; SOl'IL'I~ rky b.1d thl'tr first open hollSL' b~t \\c'l'k on Sq1- lt'mhc.: r ~ ~ Thl'\ Ill\ lll'tlthl' f.ll . .'ltlt:• .t!ld the· ~tud.:nt bu,l\ I•• tlrhc\.\ilt. \lh:,!J showcased a speaker frnm Planned Parenthood ~L't . .'kint \<lluntL·cr-; fnr their Escort St'r\·:ce. This pa-·t Tu~·~LI.I) t'\ L'llin~ tb::\ lud .lth •till' I Uf1l'll dilliiL~I ..llltl.~ t;Uttkd ,ji-.,, ll\- sion ahOlli \\lllllL'Il', 1\-.\IIC.''> \Ill c',ll11 pus. fkst \r.. t,, .Ill llf thl·-..,· thl'llll' h\lll'l''> fpJ lhL'll ..,lie',.,.., .iJI,l bIll\\ I h ,1-, .I ! ',I : t 'l f' t h C l ' II 1 • IIi ( • ' '~ kgc <.'~lllllllllllil~'

Campus Li£'e Page 2 • September 30, 1999 •qJP:ttCPr.Not$fs Security Incident Report Sunday, September 19 - Saturday, September 25 Sumday, Septenl!boer 19.,1999: Larceny Fire Alarm Substance Abuse/Drugs Violation of AlcollGl P() licy Noise Complaint Monday, Septern!)er 21), 1999: . . . Trespass Trespass Larceny Tuesday, SeptemtJe.-2i, 1999: Safety Concern Wednesday, Septclll.b~rZ2, 1999: Life Safety Violati~n Thtusday, SeptembEr 2!3, 1999: Safety Hazard Life Safety ViolabOtn Friday, Septembttr 2!4 .. 1999: Fire Alarm Larceny Saturday, Septe!lll:ber 25, 1999: No reported incicle11ts l2:30atnLibrary Plaza. Theft of vendor equipm~nt. Items found Returned to own~t:. 1: l5am Fox Hall. Caused from burnt popcorn. 1: 15am Fox Hall. Paraphanalia found and confiscated. Conduct Charges filed. ll:45pmLibrary Plaza. Suspect identified. C(}nductCharges Filed. 1:30am North College. Suspect identified. Conduct Charges Filed. 11 :20am Bailey Hall area. Suspect identifiedand advised of Private property status. 11 :31 am Davidson area. Suspect identified and .advised of Private property status. 5: 13pmDaviclson Hall. Theft of sign. Suspect identified. Conduct Charges filed. 9:15am Off Campus. Conduct Charges filed. 6:08pm Psi Upsilon .. 2:30am Upper Class Dining. Deep Fryer left on. 9:33pm Psi Upsilon. Unauthorized removal of smoke detector. I O:OOam Reamer Center. Burnt food. 12: 17pm Fox Hall. Theft of electronic equipment. RITE· AID PHOTO PROCESSING GO TO RITE AID _FOR :ALL OF· YOUR PHOTO NEEDS! .WE ARE LOCATED ON VAN VRANKEN AVENU·E (518) .382·3304 ' y ,, i . < .1,. . Announcements ATTENTION STUDENTS AND STAFF Copies of tile draft of the Middle States Reporf\ are avaii(Jble · in tile Student Ac:tMties office and crt the CirctJICrtion Desk lri Sthafferlibi'CI~ The Middle States Steering COmmittee loOks f!)rward. to your input. . Comments Grt the reports should be directed to tlu~ CQochair'$ of :the ·, Steering. Committee, Dean Chri~tie Sorum ill ,Feigenbaum Hall (sorumc@union.edu) or to .prof. Alan Taylor in the Mathematics Deport- ment in Be~iley ;Hall .(teylora@union.edur~ . An ad hoc commi,ttee has been formed to consider thetenurability of James Adrian, Assistant Professor in the Departme:nto£ Chemistry. the comniittee members are Brenda Johnson. (Mathematics), Leslie 6ul1 (Chemistry}, Ann Anderson(Mechanie:al Engineering), and: Adrlah . Frazier (English), Chair o Anyrnember ofthe campus community wish- ing to offer written or oral testimony concerri'ing PrGfessor Adrian~s · teaching, scholarship &1,' collegeser.-vice should contact Professor Frazier {6207, frazier;;@lunion;edu}or any other member ()ftlte committee. An ad hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenurability of ·Donald Rodbell, Assistat1t Professor in the Department of Geology. The committee members are Ekram H~sib (EE/CS), Stephen Iiortort (Biology), Kurt Hollocber (Geology), an<l Sheltoll Scltmidt (Econom- ics), Chair. Any member of the campus community wishing to offer · written or oral testimony concerning Professor Rodbell's teaching, scholarship~rcollege service should contact Prof~ssor Sclunidt(621$, scbmidts@u.nion.edu} or any other menf!Jer of the c():n:in'littee. An ad hoc C()rmnittee has been fonned to C()nsider the t'enurability of Roset Khosr()pour ,Assistant Professor in the :pepattment -of PhySics .. The committee members · are Seyfollah. Maleki (Plly~ies}, David Hemmendinget·{EE/CS), :Bonney MacDonald (English), and Susan Niefield (Mathematics), Chair. Any member of the can:ipus commu- nity wishing to offer written or oral testimony concerning Professor Khosropour's teaching, scholarship or college service should contact . Professor Niefield ( 616~, niefids@union.edu) or :clllY other member of the committee. An ad hoc ccinunittee has been form~d to consider the tenurability of Stephen Schmidt, Assistant Professor in the Department of Economics. The committe!emembers ax\e Janet Anderson (G!temistry), Clifford Brown(Political Science),EshraghMotahar(Economics), and Sigrid . Kellenter (Modem Languages),.Chair. Anymember·of the campus community wishing to offer written or or.al testimonyooncerning Pro- fessor Schmidt's teaching, .scholarship or college service should con- tact Profess~r Kellertter( 6212, kellents@union.edu) or any other mem- ber of the c<>mmittee. · · UNION COLLEGE PilE-LAW ADVISING IS NOW ON THE WEB lnformllfion on LSI\Tt The Application Process, Low School Rankings, file Personal Statement and nps on ·\getting in\ to your choice of law school. Hyperlinks to Kapfon_, Law School Admission Council, Internet Legal Resources Guide. Hyperlinkto Boston.Cclllege locator. Just mCJtch your GPA and LSAT with the law Schools. Just go to: http:/ /wwwl.union.edu/-weinert/prelow/mdex.html For more information, call Terry Weiner, Pre-law Advisor, 388- 1»066, Department of Political Sciertce. I. E. F. DtADUNE . The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundatit>n in 1wo cotego- ries-:studei)Hnifiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ is October 14, 1999. Proposals for s1udent-initidted research projects must nave the written ap- . proval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to superwise the project. The proposals sholJid be submitted to the Dean's Office (5100, Science & Engineer- ing Building) m forms qvailable there. Similarly, members ofthe C()llege community who have\'educationally innova- tive# proposals should submit them to the same-office on iormsav.ailable there. Forms for Faculty Research Projects are also available in tile Dean's Office (5100), - ' - Guidelines with respect to the I.E.F. are available in the DEah'S Office. Inquiries about I.E.F., the guidelines, or the proposal .deadline sh<luld be directed to Margaret Daitoll, Admioistrotive Assistant fl) the Dea1:1 -of Arts & Sciences. When preparing budgets. please remember that per diemrotes are normally limited to $50,85 per duy. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. Students who.are pldnning to do inteiViews must indicate that arrangementshave already been made. If ye>ur researchindudeswork witll human subjeds, then theproposal must have preliminaryapproval from the Human Subjects Research CommHtee before itcan be fun<led by the Subcouncil on Undergradtrate Research. FACliLTY RESEARCH DEADLINE The Facultr Development Committee is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activitles. Applications and guide· lines are available in Dean Butterstein's Office IS-100, S&E). The · deadline for $llbmissioll af proposals is October 14, 1999. · Questions C()ncetning the Faculty Rese11rch Fun<l should be directed to Dean Butterstein. Wilen preparing budgets, please ~remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $ !ii0-85 per day. Transporta- , tion should also reflect thE best rates available. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the pro· p.osals must have prelimillary approval fram the H11rna11 Subjects Re· search Committee befcr~ it can be funded by the Faculty Develop- ment Committee. c Bu sm 01~ 1 COl ofJ Nil Sa M< wb atl Sa1 rna the at 1 WI per sai~ cau mo auc tha Stu for que teri skii 1 by .tho: fes~ I do bit~ the me: thir ked pee thir anc aud 1 Mii belt pan wit1 skit aud whi The \ Ho bE M

i i co·medic lmprov_Group. Entertains Small c·rowd Professor Nichols Organizes Scholar.sbips and Fe_llow.ships byKatieMeloney eggbeater. Mop and Bucket ere• . who areplanningacareerinpublic ated a story about a short-order · by KristenZadourilln service and/or public policy. Contrth~tting Writer chef who used to work in a high- . Contributing Write1· In the past, Union has not been Last Friday ·night, Mop and class gourtnet restaurant in France, very visible among the winners of Bucket Com~anyperformed for a but was fired by the head chef Professor Byron Nichols of the these .awards, which is largely due small crowd ofUnion students in when he attempted to make a Political Science Department has to the factthat many students were Old Chapel. hollandaise sauce with the accepted a new part-time p{)sition not aware of their opportunities, or Mop and Buclcet Company is a eggbeaterhismothersenthim.from as Director of Graduate 'Fellow- had no one to go to for support c.om.edy improv group consisting America. ships and Honors. and guidance. This is the basis for offourmen,MichaelBums,Byron. Next, Mop and Bucket asked Th.e new position ·re<juires the creation ofthisn.ewposition. Nilsson, TemMcWatters, and Tom Union studettts for an ·occupation Nich()ls to inform those studen1s Union has the students capable of Savoy. Burns, Nilsson, and fortheirskit, \GuesstheOccupa- oncampusmostlikelytobea:ward winning these awards. Students McWatter-s are the witty actors tion.\ One of the actors left the wlhnerswhattheiroptions.a.re,.and justileedapushintherightdirec- whoma.ke upson;g lyrics and skits room while the students supports and guide them tbwugh tion. at the sugestions of the audience. brainstormed. After coming uP the application process. As Nichols says, \my goal is to Savoy is the tale11ted pianist that with the oecupation \old under- . ' For graduating seniors, these increase the number ofUnion stu- makesupthemusicto accompany wear collector on a beach in . scholarships include internatiomal dents applying for international their songs. The group performs Schenectady who refurbishes and h(Jnors such as the Rhodes Schol- and national awards, and to in- at numerous colleges in the area. resells the underwear,\ the actor arship, the Marsh:;IH Scholarship crease the nqmber of winners.\ Whenasked.wb.attheythinkabout was asked to return artd the skit' and the Fullbright Fellowsb.ip. TheScholarshipsareoftensub- performing at Union, McWatters continued. Students hollered and . There are also several .n!ltional stantial amom1ts ofmoney, which said that they really enjoy it be- cried as they watched nim tzy to awards, ~uch as the Mellon :Scltol- are n(Jt based on fmancial needs. cause \Union stadents are much guess what his occupation was arsbip for study in the Hurn!lllities, Also, winning one of these awards more intelligent than other college while acting along with the other the NSF for students interested in -will n()t necessarily reduce exist- audiences.\ They especially l:ike actors who knew h.is occupation. the sciences and others f(Jrthose ing scholarships awarded by that, unlike other colleges, Union Union managed to stump him for • stl).dents interested in pub lie Union. In fact, the awards can of- students give g()od suggestions the frrsttime! policy. ten replace student loans and for.the '\Who, What, and Where\ After a few more songs and For sophomores and juaiors work-smdy jobs. questions they ask. to get the rna- some skits, Mop and Bucket went there are opportunities such a£ the Nichols states, \I will be work- terial they use when making up the out into the audience to interview Goldwater Fellowships foruader- ing intensively with sophomores skits. a Union student. They chose a graduate science majors, the Udall tnbegin the process early.\ They opened th.eir performance timid :freshman felilalenamedlngrid · Fellowsh.ips for students with en- The Tnunan Scholarshjp, for ex- by singing a humorous song. To seated near the back of the room. vironmental interests, a!ld the ample, requires that all applicants activities for a minimum of two years. Therefore, according to Nichols, it is important for sopho- mores to start th.inking about these scholarships now in order to fulfil the necessary requirements to compete in the application process. Nichols has the information stu- dents need to get involved in this ~rocess. \I can help you obtain application forms, access relevant Websites, and identify the right people to write letters of recom- mendation in your behalf.\ Moreover, says Nichols, \I can review yourapplication essays and suggest revisions that need to be made, arrange mock interviews, coach yGu ·on interview dress as well as proper etiquette at cocktail parties and table malll1ers at for- mal meals that are sometimes part of the final stages of competition.\ Win or lose, the process is a learn- ing experience. Nichols encourages all students, especially current sophomores, to come to see him to discuss whether or not you have a chance at par- ticipating in any of these competi- tions. Nichols can be reached at x6226, or by e-mail at those expecting to see a more \pro- After getting some basic info.rrna- 1-1~~~~~~~,!fo2!r~s~tu~- !cle~n~ts!·_j~!!S~~i~n_!tw~·~o~~~~s~e~rv~i~ce~~~~~~~!£~---­ fessional\ version.{)fUnion's own tion about Ingrid, her interests, and Idol Minds im,prov group, it was a her summer activities, Mop and bit strange to heartllese men, twice Bucket made up a somewhat phal- the age of most ()f the audience lie song about Ingrid's college ex- Students· Participate in AIDSWalk members, singing sings about perience. Like all great stories, byLauraCotton things like shy people dancin.g na- there was a heroine, knight in shin- Contributing Writer ked on tables at p~rties. Many ex:- ing armor, an evil villain, and a ''hap- pected more of the same kind of pily ever after ending. While the majority of Union: stu- things that Idol Minds do, games The performance was ~big sue- dents were fast asleep early Sllll- and skits that include the cess. Anyone who did not show · Bay m()ming, a group of .sisters audience's input an.d suggestions. up to see Mop and Bucket missed from Sigma Delta Tau, along with Those expecting to see the Idol a great performance. They were several other Union students~ took Minds brand ofhamor were notto entertaining, humorous, and fun. part in the AIDS Walk in dovvnt()vvn be let down. Mop lllldBucketCom- Even students who had never seen Albany to raise money to fulldre- pany delivered bandies of laughs . Idol Minds or any other improv search to fmd a cure for the epi- withthe.audience'shelpinthenex:t group enjoyed the show. Irene demic. The walk took plllce in skit. For this skit,. they asked. the Kan, a \newbie\ to improv, said, Albany's beautiful Was~ington audience to supply an object about \They are witty! I like the fact that Park and within some of the city's which they would create a story. it's all.improvisitional and notre- neighborhoods. Live entertain- iThE.~e~~· ~~~~w~a~s~a~c~o~mm~o~n~~~~~·~· --------~ meilt, including a mime, several doWlls, an~ a band, kicked offthe Joseph Ellis, th~ Ford Foundation Professor of History at Mo~nt Holyoke College~ spoke at the Nott Memorial on Thursday, Septem- ber 23, on \Why Jefferson Lives: A Meditation on the Man and the Myth. \His talk was the first of four this fall in the Perspectives at the Nott lecture series. walk, boosting the spirits :of the thousand or so people wlto par- ticipated. There were several filas- seuses on hand as well to offer free massages to the walkers. Many walkers came fr<Jrn the Damien Houses -local drop- in dirt- ies for AIDS and HIV patie-11ts in Schenectady and Albany. Stu- dents fr(Jrn nearby SUNY Albany were in attendance as well as nu- metou.s families from the are~. The cmwd represented the disease in every way; AIDS affects people frotnall walks of life- it dces 110t discriminate. \There was a real sense of liveliness to the crowd; everyo11e knew that they had corne out to do something great for the polllln-unity, and I was really glad to be a part of that,\ said 011e stu- dent, Jeanne Hinckley. The weather made the m()ming even the more enjoyable and en- couraged more people to come out for the.cause. Along the way, walk- ers were treated to complimentary bottledwater and handed fliers with alanning AIDS statistics provided by The Damien House of Albany. Though the walk only lasted two miles, ending with complimentary refreshments and entertainment, tlte crowd in attendance seemed satisfied to have given their time and energy to the AIDS caase. An AIDS Project quilt was also on dis- play for the walkers to see, and in- formational tables from local agen- cies provided information about IDV services. An awards ceremony took place for the walkers that had raised the most money. The walk was sponsored by the Community AIDS partnership of the Capital Region, a consortium (Jf people living with AIDS and HIV, AIDS service providers, funders, clergy, and important com- . munity leaders. The funds that the pa:rtneTship raises go to increasing community awareness about AIDS and collaborating efforts among AIDS service agencies and funders. Since 1994, the AIDS Walk has helped raise more tllan $700,000 for AIDS organizations in the Capital Region. This money ha.d been used to provide services for family and childre~ HIV outreach and preven- tion services, counseling and men- tal health services, anddrop-in cen- ters for persons living with. HIV andAIDS,tonamea few. According to another agency, the AlDSCoWici1 ofNortheastem New York, approximately one in every one hm1dred adults aged 15- 49 is infected withHIV. More than eight million children have l(Jstone or both of their pare11ts to AIDS. Each year, between forty and eighty thousand people in the United States alone become infected with HIV. In 1998. alone, 2.5 million people died from AIDS. Due to recent medical break- throughs, rnany people with AIDS and HIV are living longer, but the number of those infected with HIV continues to increase. In the Capital Region, the num- ber of reported AIDS cases bas in- creased by more than 200% in the last five years. The AIDS Walk was a perfect opportunity to give something to the community, and learn the im- portance ()f the cause. The Walk is only the beginning, however. Combating .the disease, finding the time to volunteer, and touching .the lives of the millions who have been affected by this disease can change the lives of so many and help to someday find a cure .. If you are interested in volun- teering for the Community AIDS Partnership of the Capital Region, pi ease call 18) 489-2312.

Page 4 • September 30, 1999 • <lion.rnr.hl.ensi!<i Campus News Profe,ssor Klein Named n·ean for· Information/Technology Student Forum Minutes OLDCHAPEL, WEDNESDAYSEPTEMBER22, 1999 · which is thehalliuark ofUnim1. Fur- Klein's new position is to decide by KristenZadourian Meeting f()c Order: 7:06PM . thermore, Klein added, \Computer where technology can make learn- Contributing Writer technology eliminates the bound- ing easier and more effective ancl · Attendan.ce: Absent-Andy Markowski, Tom McKinney, Melissa Sullivan,. Karen De Vito, Christina Baldassari, Mary Kate Aveni Approval of Minutes: VP of Multicultural Affairs~correction of 1 'SHAKTlt Class of2001-Prof. Klein is no4 Dean of Academic aries of time and space in educa- secondly to insiitute the necessa:rr · After 20 years of teaching at tion.\ actions to get it done. Union, Profe!Ssor Klein of the Eco- With the help of technology, lee- Klein also added, \Computersa.re Complltinz · nomics Department has accepted tures and discussions will not have not a complete panacea, in some a new p9sition on campus as As- to succumb to the Festraints of the ways they are like a Pandora's b()x_ sociate Dean forlnforrnati<m Tech- class periods. \As Dave Cossey, With the free and open access tD nology. The executive director of The Of- information comes the necessity Officer Reports: VP of Administration (Christy Weafer)-Postponing vl)iing for dubs, some refurhi~hing needed VP of Finan(e (Brian Roache)-none As Klein reflects on his last 20 fice of Computet Services likes to for the users of technology tote VP of Campus-Life (Paul Stewart-Stand)..,none years at Union, he notes, \I have seen a lot Q)f changes. When I came, just about the only comput- ers on camptts were in the machine room in Peschel Computer Center. In fact, to use the cornputer, I had to carry pun{!hed cards up to the computer center and feed them into the card reader. Then I would wait several hours. or even over night, and pick up my printout. Pro~ably not mme than a quarter of the Union Faculty or students ever used a computer for anything.\ It is not hard to find a computer onthis(;ampus today. Union <;ur- rently owns about 1150 microcom- puters, and numerous specialized servers for mail, the web, electronic classmorns, . .and public labs. All .of our dorm rooms are equipped with the necessary out- lets for full Ethernet connection to the campus network. Presently, 85% ofUni()n Students own a per- sonal comp11ter. Our:libraryis also equipped with several electronic catalogs and onlinedatabases. Klein said, '\you wouldbe hal'd. pressed to 'fmd any- one om campus, student, faculty, or staff, that clown not use a com- puter.\ .. My new job,\ Klein states\ is to help the College explore the best ways to use technology in its edu- cational mission, while at the same time preserving the tradition of close faculty-student interaction point out, that with the newly reno- able to evaluate what they are see- vated library, 'even when it is ing, and judge its credibility a11d closed, it is open.\' E-mail and de- reliability. partrnent web pages are already Crooks and hate-mongers a.r.e . successfully acting as useful Iiai- just as able to set up a web site as sons between faculty and students. scholars and rep1,1table businesses. · Union has received numerous Out need to be intelligent consl!Xll- grants in order to ensure the ers of information is only height- progress of _this new project. enedby the glut of information tba.1 Union has received two grants technology subjects us too.\ from the Andrew Mellon Founda- Moreover, Klein addresses tlle tion, one of which was awarded to issue of intellectual honesty. Union for support in starting new \Some ofthe less ethical peopl~ irr intern;;1tional studies programs the world are more than happy to jointly between Union and Hobart tempt you with ways to pass off and William Smith Colleges. Other someone else's·work as your ow.ll, grants were received from The Na- and the web seems to have heiglit- tional Science Foundation, and the ened their greed. This is why tbe AT&T Foundation. · spre;;1d of computer technolo.gy VP of AAC (Danette Slevinski)-Sdecting a cross t~lk commi~tee to discwss possible-introduction of honor code at Union College VP of M11lticultural Affairs <I}ebbie Pellisb)-MAG lunch pre- sentation {Wed., @12:30pm); Fri, 1-0/24 SIIAKTI gathering in multicultural room; Fri., ASU mid-autumn fest±val Trustee (Erin Aloan}-Freslunen elections t() be held 7thJgth we.ek; possible' debate in-West Dining Hall during lUJ1ch hours lFC (Tom :McKilmey)-none PanHel {Jell Caruso )-Met with Dean Alford to go over winter/ spring n1sll; rnet with house presidents, house managers, aJJ.d cam- pus safety to -discuss security <;one ems · THC (Melissa Sullivan)-none Class of 20()0 (Jen Caruso)-wine and chee:Se in Old Chapel (9/ 23); Antidpating successful \duck races;\ still discussing senior gift ideas Class of :2001 (Steve S(huler}Prof. Klein .eager to devel<>.p pro- gram that integrates technology with classroo-n-1 (looking for ideas) Class of 200~ (Julie Wittekind)-none Old BusiD.ess: As a result of the grants, steps also increases the need for users have already been taken to imple- to have a good moral foundatio~, ment more efficient uses of our to be fair to themselves and to thos~ Parents' Weekend-schedule available for :parents and students technology, such as studio phys- around them. (\full weekend'') ics, new and improved classes in \Whether or not you view com- New Business: the Olin building, and coordinated puteT technology as a good thing;, Middle s.tate§ Self-Evaluation-Dean Sorum and Prof. Taylor (co- classes between Union and Hobart it is here to stay. Wireless techn()l- chairs of middle states steering committee) met with Forum; Uttion WilliamSmithColleges forthenew .ogy is on the horizon which will needs to be accredited for various reasons, fr.om enabling students combined term abroad program. give us the opportunity to take it · · to pursue graduate school to students able t() receive scholarships A major part of Klein's new job with us everywhere. Already 'We . · and other ,financial aid; three parts to our rep()rt which will here- is to decipher between the effec- see global positioning systems itt • . viewed in April {intellectual life in t11e classr<lom; student life out- tive and ineffective uses of tech- cars, and cell phones. Wireles::s · : side the classroom; faculty life outside the classroom); committee no logy. Klein recalls seeing class computer ~etworks are next. Otcr would lilce to host. an open forum for students to voice opinion on lectures with excessive notes on cha~lenge Is to a~cept~e change~ report andoffer any additional input; positive :about likely outcome, the blackboard prove just as te- wh.Ile, 0 prese.~v•ng the best of_ but work still needs to be done dious as lectures using Power . mon s past. Committee Reports: none Point. Klein is open to and eager fiH · Announcements: Sgt. Tomeck and· camp.11s safety coming to As Klein said, \Technology for ideas anyone has for ways to i:m.- the sake of using technology is prove instructional technology 011 Forum nex::t Wed., 9/29 bad.\ Oneofthemainpurposes of our campus. Motion t~: Adjourn:. ·second; meeting adjoumed at 7:35PM Hillary Rodham Clinton Addresses Upstate Crowd by Kelly Johnson Contributing Writer It is not typical for any area around the Union College grounds to be bustlir1g before 8 AM on a Saturday morning. This past Sat- urday, however, the Schenectady Museum, l()cated on nearby Nott Terraee, hosted a monthly morn- ing Democratic convention. What made this meeting especially sig- nificant was its guest speaker; the First Lady of the United States, Hillary Rodham Clinton. Mrs. Clinton has been making her way on a path in Upstate NewYork~ stopping over Friday night t() give a speech at RPI, and early Saturday morning to a large group <lf Democrats in the Union College neigh.borhood. It is comon for pllblic o.fficials to be fashion- ably 1a:te, and in the case this Sat- urday, anxious supporters waited over an hour for the meeting to get underway and for Hillary Clinton to mak::e her 'guest appearance. .. She was well worth the wait,\ exclaimed a.n elderly woman who lived across the street and came to hear tile fus.tlady speak. Mrs. Clinton was joined on stage by a group of ecstatic area politi- cians, including Michael McNulty (D-New York); representing the Al- banydistrict, who came to give his public endorsement to Hillary Clinton's New York Senatorial cam- pa~gn. However, the underlying question arose early in Mrs. Clinton speech. \Hillary have you confirmed your decision to run for a seat in the New York Senate this upcoming election?\ Her reply was warmly welcomed with laughter among the room of democratic supporters. \I have not yet confrrmed my de- cision to run, however I am lean- ing very far forward in that direc- tion.\ A few seconds after her .state- ment, Mrs. Clinton sarcastically replied, \However ifi was leaning any farther forward in my decision,· l would fall over.\ Hillary Clinton addressed many issues that appealed to her crowd of supporters. She placed il1lpot- tant goals on securing job ·oppor- tunities for graduates in the Up- state region, emphasizing the col- lapse of industry and employment that has plagued much of this area. Currently, upstate NewYork is last in. the nation in regional job. (;Qu rtesy Kelly Johnson Hillary Rodham Clinton entertains questi~ns after her speech. growth. Mrs. Clinton vowed to change this unfortUnate fact. It is notew'()r;. thy to mention that Schenectad-y was the .first county in New. Yor:k State to endorse Hillary Clinto:rt\ s . senatorial campaign. The catalyst for this ·endor~e­ ment of Hillary came from the i:liJ.. .mense effort of Schenectady M11\ 1 nicipal H()using Authority's legis- lative di.reetor,.Sharon Jordan; and her staff. Mrs. Cl:i11ton gave proud men- tion ofthi:s endorsement and reit- erated the str<>ng support she re- ceived from the citizens of upstate New York. Th~re was a small UnionC~llege presence , at the eventful speech Saturday m()rnjng. Two Union Col- lege students, junior Kelly Johnson and sophomore Neil Routrnan, who regularly attend Schenectady County Democratic ConventiOJ.1S, ·came to list-en and support the First Lady SatuTday morhingc. Union CollegePoUtical Scieneeprofessor, Richard F()x., attended the speech as well. \It seemed that Hillary Clinton was wellinformedoftheisS'ues that face citizens in Upstate New York ... she was able to rally str<lng sup- port for her senatorial campaign,\ said Johns()n. Routman responded' with his observation 1 \Mrs. Clinton seemed like a lifetime politician: real slick. She tactfu.lly answered and dodged questions, constantly put- ting .the audience in a positive frame of situatio11and state of ntirJ.d.\ Johnsotrvras able to briefly meet the first lady: after her speech and introduce herself as a Union Col- lege student. Hillary vvas appreciative of the support she'l:!.ad received from stu- dent populations on her upstate New York tour. Mrs. Clinton spent a half-houcafter her speech shak- ing handsa:nd talking with her sup- p()rters. I

jfacuttp. (~ lloquium ADRIAN FRAZIER PROFESSOR OFBNGLISH Biography of Gearge M()ore THURSDAY, OCTOBER~. 1999AT 11:30A.M. REAMER CAMPUS CENlER AUDITORIUM LUNCR WDl FOUOWIN HAL£ HOUSE DINMG ROOM Are YOU interested in pursuing a career in accounting, business, health care administrati\ll or international management? Union's 5·Year MBA ltf)gram ean be the key to a great future far YOU/ -You~~ .aJl .... lnfOunatltmSession -about ~...MBAP .. r:ogram • Find out how to obtainyollr MBA in only on~ additional yearof study. • Rnd out about challenging careers in different fields. • Find out how itlternships help develop experience before graduation, • Have a chance to ask questions of faculty and current 5-year students. RSVP • 6239 by October 8 (llom.orMen,.;i~ • September 30, 1999 • Page 5 In the H. ot Seat at AEPi . . . . - by Neil Routman World News E(iiter 1'his. past Thursday, .professor Tomljanovich took part in\The Hot Seat,\ sponsored by Alpha Epsi~ lon~i fratemity. He broughtto the table a controversid subject of whether or ·not currency is obso- letetoday or in the new millennium.· He pointed out that money is not obsolete, but that hard currency such as the peooy or dollar is ob- solete today. His argument focused on how cmrency is constantly changing and how even today, a large per- centage of ttansactians are done through credit cards and debit cards. He also mentioned the emerging technology ofsmartcards and how a card could so<Jn replace cards is prevalent, however, be- cause many people don't under-\ stand the complexities of the Intemet, they don't trust using a card for purchases. Tomljanovich discussed the possibility of a cashless society. Though there are many obstacles, we are moving in that direction; many parts of Europe have been functioning without cash. Cash is easUy:lost, a burden to carry, con- tains,no security, am~ deteriorates. The major reason that cash is prevalent today is becau:se it is a managerial arm of the federal re- serve. Either when used for inter- national trade or when being printed by the Federal Reserve Mints,. cash allows the govern- ment to control the market In fact, soon most bills will be equipped with an extremely small chip, which allows the govenunent to track the history of the bill, detennini:ng what purchases it has made. With this system in place, such ilkgaJ trades such as drug or money laundering can be easily proved and pros- ecuted. Professor Tomljanovich, a new member of the economics depart- ment, was thrilled to see the inter- est in the subject of\The Hot Seat\ and spoke with many students af- , terwards about specific questions. With a bar~b-que beforehand and lively discussion after, the Hot Seat was quite a success and left many waiting for the next. AEP'i could not be reached for a defmitive date of the next Hot Seat, but it wiU most likely be in early October and in~ volve a subject just as interesting. every d<>Har you ~arry. His argu- r--\-~------------~--------- ment also focused on the short his- . tory of currency and how its has·.· repeatedly failed or been scrapped for:easier forms of money. His ar- . gument suggests that perhaps it is · time f«lr a new form of currency or • at least a review of the current sys- tem. He mentioued how fifty years . ago a penny could buy many smaller products, but now some businesses do not even use them and just round up to ilie nearest tenth ofa dollar. 'Jomljanovich asked if any mem- bers ofthe audience were afraid to use his or her credit card on the . Internet. A number of participants · raised't-1tei,r bands. Tprnljanovich \. ,co):EU!lellted that he'd like to v~deo­ tape hjs question and play it back Sloan MillerJTC to the audience in fifty years. Ac~ tually, the Internet is probably the safest means of exchange. The use . of credit cards in restaurants and merchant shops is much more dan- gerous; the risk of misuse er stolen Smoke billgwed from a local warehouse on Peek Road on Friday, September 24. The College lfJst power for over two hours du~ to the blaze. The fire in the 80, 000-square foot building was cited as the biggest fire in the last century in Schenectady. An investigation has been launched by the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and . Firearms and Schenectady officials. Chinese Communism Turns Fifty by Bruce Reynolds Contributing Writer OnOctober 1, 1949,afteracivil war that arg.llably lasted for twenty years, the Chinese Communist Party, vi.ctorious at last over the Nationalist Party, dedared the founding of the Chinese People's Republic. Presiding over a massive cer- emony in Tian An Men Square, Mao Zedong, who had led the Party for 16 years (and would lead it for nearly thirty years more, until his death in 1975), declared, \For a century, China has been on her knees. Now China has stood up!\ That triumphant outcry~ \Arise!\ -became the new Chinese national anfhetn. On Friday, October 1, the Union community will have a chance to reflect on the meaning of that event, and to review the complex path of Cltin{:se history since 1949. So mlm)' times ~ most recently and tragically, in ihe riotingand deaths of1989~ TianAnMen. Square (the Chinese equivalent of the Wash- ingtoll Mall) has witnessed turn- ing points in the evolution of China\spoliticallife. At7 P.M. this Friday, a group of panelists will address these issues and lead a discussion ofthem in the NottMemorial. One way to assess the enor- mous changes that have occurred in China is to think about the changing relationship between Union life and the Chinese nation. Professor Bruce Reynolds, who heads Union's East Asian Studies Program, notes, \When I came to Union in 1974, it was largely be- cause we offered Chinese lan- guage instruction here. But China attbat time was so distant, so mys- terious! A 'bamboo curtain' walled us off from the Chinese people; no more than perhaps ten Americans a year visitedChina.\ Today, by contrast, a dozen Union students head for Nanjing, China each fall, and four Nanjing faculty come to Union. to spend the year here taking courses and i.Jiteracting with Union students. The Nanjing faculty will be in- cluded on the Friday evening panel, which will also feature the Union faculty who teach and stlldy China; Union now each year welcomes students from China into its MBA program; this year there are three Chinese students in that program, hoping (like many Union under- graduates) to succeed in careers in international fmance and man- agement! Other links have developed as well. Each year since 1995, two graduating seniors have headed for Capital Normal University in Beijing, to teach English theie. Last year a CNU faculty member, Pro- fessor Xiaoping Wang, came to Union for a year and taaght a spring term seminar here. So how should Union under- stand the significance of Cnina 's fiftieth anniversary year? Clearly the focus should be on the extent of the transformation in China it- self. and the immense changes in China'!! relationship to the United States a11d to Union College. The Friday program will high- light these changes, and will be followed by food, drink and con- tinued conversation in Hale House Dining Hall. Friday's event is being organized by Professor Megan Ferry, the newly hrred Luce Professor of Chi- nese Language and Culture, and is cosponsored by the Asian Stu- dents' Union. Those wishing more information may contact Professor Ferry.

Page 6 • September 30, 1999 • C'Ltnmttdri:e~5is .. Campus News Final Exam Schedule Fall1999 MONDAY,NOVEMER 1'5,.199'l-9:30..1 1:30AM AAH*Oli*Ol lntro A1t History- I BCH*IBO*OI Biochemistry W/Lab BIO*OI 0~02 Heredity/Evol/Ecology wll..ab 810*053*01 Northeast Forests w/Lab 810*180*01 CER*142*01 CHN*OIO*Ol EC'O*OJ 2*01 EC'O*Ol2*02 EC0*]38*01 EER*OoJ*OI EGL\'024\'01 EGL'\039*01 FRN*OIO*OI GE0*022*01 GRK*OIO*OI !MP*OII*Ol JPN*l30*01 LAT*OIO\'Of MER*043*01 PHL *OJ l *01 PHY\014*01 PSC'*O I 1*0 I PSC*OI3\'01 PS¥*024*01 PSY*030*01 PSY*038*01 SOC'*OIO*OI SOC'*024*01 SOC*060*01 SPN*OI2*01 SPN*122*01 Biochemistry w/Lab Soil M eciia11ics w/Lab Basic Chinese I Introduction to Economics Introduction to Economics Quantitative Methods Desgn of Electronic Circ w/Lab Major American Authors 2 European Lit Basic French I Proc Geomorphlsurf Geo w/Lab Principles of Greek I lht MathJPilysics I w/Lab Advanced Intermediate Japanese PrinCiples ofl.atin I Advanced Mechanics w/Lab Ancient Pbilos()phy Freshma11 Seminar Intro to American Politics lntro to Political Thought Social Psychology Personality Developmental Psychology I ntro to Sociology Social Psychology Quantitative Social Research Basic Spanish 3 Advanced Spanish MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15; 1999-l :30-3:30PM ANT\083 *0 I Peoples & Cultures: Latin Arner EC0*042*01 Macro Theory & Policy EGL \0 I 9*0 I Major English Authors I EGL *042*01 Humanities:lhe Origins ESC*025\*0 I Electric Circuits w/Lab ESC'*025*02 Electric Circuits w/Lab FRN* 120*0 I lntem1ediate French 1 GER*Ol0*02 Basic Gemmu I GER*012*01 Basic Gem1an 3 HST*045*01 Tudor England:l485-1603 MER *lo6*01 Heating/Ventilation/Air ·Cond PlH. •ms•o·t Eastem Philosophy P.SC'*039*0 I Feminists l'heory PSC'*069*01 Media & Politics PSY*OI0*02 lntro to, Psychology WST*086*01 Feminists Theory MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1999-4:30-6:30 PM ANT*OIO*OI Cultural Anthropology ANT*OI 0*02 Cultural Anthropology CSC*07o*5l Structured Prog & Computer Org CSC'*I3o*51 Advanced Programming Teclinique C\SC*I 37*51 Data Communications & Netwo.-ks C\SC'*250* 51 Prog.-amming La~uages EER *13 7* 51 Data Communications & Networks EER*141*51 EER*246*51 PSY*020*01 'STA*20l*5l: Energy Conversion Digital Signal P.-oc w/Lab Statistical Methods/Psychology Intro to- Probability·& Statist MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15. 19'l9-7:00-9:00 PM GMI*200*51 Managing Ethically: Global Env GMI 0 251*51 Managing People & Tean1s in Org GMI*265*51 lntemaliOJial Marketing Mgmt HSS*200*51 Introduction to Health Systems HSS*217*51 Advanced Health Fiilance MER*202*51 Engineering Analysis SPN* 14-2*01 Spanish American Novel SPN*I42*02 Spanish American Novel TliESOAV,NOVEMBER 16,1'l99-9:30..11:30AM BI0*025*01 MolecU:larBio of Cell wlLab BI0*046\0 I lntro tc Psychobiology B!0*064*01 Mgmt:Nature, Ecology, Wildms CER\'I28*01 Structural Analysis w/Lab CER*ISO*Ol Hydrology w/Lab .CHM *142 •o I Chentical lnstrumeittation w/Lab CHN*I20*01 lntemudiate Chinese I CLS*021*0 I History ofGreece CLS\'048'\0 I 6reel<s. Romans & Baibarians EC'0*041*0 I Microeccnomic Analysis EER*051*01 Prob & Digital C'omm GRK *120*0 I Attic Prcse HST*OIJ*OI History of US 10 Civil War i-IST*OI.3*02 History of US to Civil War HST*OIJ*OJ HisioryofUS to Civil War HST\'035*01 History of Europe I IIST*035\02 Histcry of Europe I HST\'OJS*OJ History of Eqrope I llST*l51*01 Nazi Germany MTH*054*01 NumberTheory PHY*016*01 Pllysics!Life Scieru:es 2 w/Lab PHY\'020\'01 Gene.-al Physics 4 w/Lab PSY*025*01 Experimental Psycl1 w!Lab PSY*046*01 Intro to Psycliobiology SPN\'O I 0\'02 Basic Spanish I TliESOAY.NOVEM:BER 16,1999-l:30o3:30PM AAH*033*01 IBth Century Europun Art · ANT*050*01 Women iit Cross-Culttuat PeiSp A TH*O I 0*0 I Speech Communication BI0*075\'0l Biology cf Homo sapiens BiO*I64•0t AnitiialBelmvior w/Lab CSC*154*01 VLSI System Design EC0*012*04 Introduction to Economics EC0*041*02 Micrceconomic Amilysis EER*J54*0l VLSI· System Design EGL *036A *0 I African-American Lit I GM1*21 0*51 Financial Accounting HSS*IOO*OI I..eadership:Amer Healthcare Sys HST*027*01 US Hisroty, 1974-1995 MER 0 144*01 Design ofMech Systen1s w/Lab PSC*OJ2*02 Intro International Politics PSY*020*02 Statistical Methods/Psychoh>gy psy•o3l*OI Abm>rmal Psychology SPN*130*01 Spanish & Span-Amer Lit WST+090*0i Women in Cross-Cultural Persp TUESDAY, NOVEMBER Hi. 1!~99 • 4:30-6:30 Pill CSC*OIO*Ol Compilters & Compuling CSC*OI0*02 ComputeiS & Computing CSC*OI0*03 ComputeiS & Computing eSC* 140*51 Theory of Computing CSC*141l 0 51 lnfonnation Systems ESC\02l*Ol Mechanics I w/Lab Matthew, L. Chu~LaGraff, Q. Pytel, B.A. Tobiessim, P. ChucLaGraff, Q. Ghaly, A. Feng,J.P. Schmidt, S.S. McCatty, T. Temljanovich, M. Hassib,E. Pavlic, E. Heinegg, P. Jordan, B. Rodbell, D. Mace,.S. Johnson/Reich Khan, Y. Sculli<llt, J. S Bunk, D. Patrik,L. Staff Weiner, T. Marso,L.J. DeBono,K. Benack, S. Stanhope; L Cotter, D. DeBono,K. Benefo, K.D. lzurieta, I. Moyano,P. Fox,J.W. Sener,M.F. Tanke,J.W. Beinegg, P. Chang, Y. Chang, Y. Jordan, B. 1\ellenter, S. llamm-Ehsahi, K Halliday, P. Wicks, F. Patrik,L. Marso, L.J. Oxley,Z.M. Santana,M. Marso, L.J. Condry, l.R. Condry, I. R. DiTursi, D. Williams, G. Gajjar, J. Hemmendinger, D. Gajjar, J. Fatic,V. Rudko, M. Bums. D. J. Scbrnee,J. Mann, V. Nydegge.-, R. v. Desarkar, C. Strosberg, M. ,'\shnmn, T.D. AndeiSon, T. Martinez, V. Martinez, V. Danowski, B. Weisse, C. Rice,S.K. Mafi,M. Snow, P. CarroU,M. Fen:y,M.M. Mace, S. Ho!Jmann,A. Schmidt, S.J. Spinelli, 1. Scullion, J. S Foroughi, A.R ·Sterngass, J. Wells, R. Halliday, P. H;tnsen,.ll. Sargent, S. Walker,M. Barilanel, J. Scltick, K. Koopmann. R. Burns, D. J. Weisse, C. Osuna, M. Ogawa, D. Gmelch, S. Culbert, P. Boyer, J. Brown, G. Traver, C. Rafferty, M.C. ReYI\olds, B. Traver, C. Mitchell, C.A. Arnold, D. Weiner, T. Feffer, A. Blinn, M.P. Lobe, T. Greenberg, S. Nydegger, R. Garcia, W. Gmelch, S. Almstead, L. Hannay, D. Glynn,M. Hannay, D. Hedrick, J.N. Bucinell,R. ESC*021 \'[)2 Mechanics 1 wibb GM£*20J•SJ Quantitative M:ethods Acjlnin II GMI*282'\51' Management Science SOC*134'\01 Sociology of.Metrtal Health TUESDA. ¥,NOVEMBER 16,1999,. 7:00.9:00 PM EER.*202*51 Advanced Circuit Analysis GMI*200 11 52 Managing Eth:lcally: Globij). Env GMI*214-'*51 Ailv Concepts of Fin Report I GMI*22S •s.t Marketing M:a11agement and Strat GMI*2'70*51 Legal Princi}lles of Bu5iness ARTS215 SSCIOI2 HUMN019 BAIL20l SSCIOI2 BUTR300 SSCI 110 OLIN 106 SSCI 103 OLIN 110 NWSEilO HUMN008 HUMN 115 A.:RTS 210 · • MER\236*5l Compressible Fluid Flow OLIN 332 HUMNOl2 NWSE 112 HUMN2l3 HUMN016 NWSE222 HUMN 112 NWSE~28 NWSE 114 HUMN 117 BAIL106 IlAIL 300 BAIL312 ARTS 109 BAIL 106 OLIN 307 BUTR 109 STZH 106 HUMNOI6 SSCI 103 HUMNIJS NWSEll4 OLIN 115 OLIN 115 HUMNOI4 HUMN010 STZH 106 HUMN 117 NWSE210 HUMN 116 SSCI 110 SSCI 014 BAIL312 SSCI I 10 OLIN 115 OLIN liS STZH 106 OLIN 106 NWSE 114 OLIN 105 NWSE 114 NWSEJI6 NWSE222 BAILJOO OLIN30J HUMNOJ4 HUMN 112 SSCI 014 HUMN019 SSCIOI2 NWSE210 HUMNll7 HUMN 117 SSCI 012 BAIL 102 OLIN306 BUTR 109 BUTR300 OLIN204 SSCI213 HUMN115 HUMNOI4 BAIL201 NWSE222 OLIN 101 HUMNII7 ARTSI09 SSCI 103 ARTS215 SSCI104: BAIL207 OLIN 115 BAIL 106 NWSE 114 NWSE328 BAIL300 BAIL 102 SSCI 014 ARTS215 HUMN016 YULMAN HUMNOI4 OLIN 107 OLIN 102 sscr 104 HUMNOI9 OLIN 102 HUMN008 BUTR300 SSCIOI2 SSCI 103 NWSE2l0 HUMN 117 BAIL300 BAIL312 HUMN liS HUMNOI6 OL!N306 OLIN307 OLIN 107 OLIN itO STZH 106 NWSE205 WEDNESDA\i 17,1999.- 9:30-l1:30AM BIO*OIO''Ol Jieredity!Evol/Ec<llogy w/Lab · · ··· BI0*032\\01 Comp VertelmteAnatorny w/Lab CER*033:*<Jl Fluid Mechanics w/Lab CSC*037•ot Structured PTo~rartnning EGL *020*01 Major Englisll Authors ?. GEO~'<OJ0*'01 Physical Geology wfLab GER*OJO*QI Basic Gertnan- I GER * 1'20* ()1 Intennediate German I HEB\OlO\Ol Basic Hebrew l HST*02~*01 hfrican-Ameritan History 2 HST*043*01 Europe in the Early Modern Era HST*19[}*:59 Europe in the ·Early Modem Era JPN*Om•m Basic Japanese I MER*0~-6*01 Thermod)'ltalllics MTII*H9\'0l Topics in Piscrete Mathematics PHY\O 1-5*'0 I Physics/Life Sciences I w!Lab PSY~OlD*,Ol Intro to Psychology S!\N*OlD~<>l Basic Spani:>h 1 SPN*120*01 Intermediate .Spanish I SPN .. I20*1l2 Intermediate Spanish I SPN*'l21*01 Intermediate Spanish 2 WEDNESDA. Y, NOVEMBER t 7, 19'l9 ,.1:30-3:30 PM MfH*OI 0*01 Calculus 1 . . .. . MTH*Ol0\02 Calculus 1 . MTH*Ol 0*03 Calculus l MTH*OH A *01 Calculus wi:th Precalc 1 MfH*OB A *02 Calculus viiih Precalc 1 MTH*OB*Ol AP Calcullls . MTH*Oll*02 AP Calculus MTH*OB*03 AP CalculJJs MTH*OB*04 AP Calculus MI'H*015*01 Calculus 3 MTH*Ol5*02 Calculus 3 M'I'H'~'OlSH*Ol Enriched Differential Calc MI'H\'099*01 Intro:Logic & Set Theory MTH*099*02 lntro:Logic & Set Theory WEDNESDAY, NOVEMIIER l7, l99!J • 7:00-9:00 PM ~GMI*25.0'\SI Organizational Theory 8SS*2f1l\'51 Issues/Mngtn11t Long Term Care THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 18, t999-·9:30-ll:30AM AMU\'OJO\O l American Music CSC*Ol5'~01 Working witl1 the Web ECO•Ol2\03 Introduction· to Economics EGL *032•01 Faulkner & Morrison EGL*052'\0L Literature <if Middle Ages FRN*tl12 *01 Basic French 3 GER*135*01 20th Century Getmiln Literature GER* 14(>*01 Deutschen. ,L.it20 Jabrhundert HST\Ott2'\01 Renaissance 'Europe HST\'lZ9•01 African-American Tllought 1P.N•I20*()I Intermediate Japanese 1 LAT 0 13(} 11 0l Catullus & f£orace\ · PHY*ClU*Ol <Jeneral Pllysics 2 w!Lab PH¥\'()41'\01 Laser TechiMQdem optics w!Lab PHY*OSZ*Ol luterm Class:ical Mechanics PSC*OW'*OI CompartiveEthnic & Racial Pol PSY*OZ4'~02 Social Psychology PS¥*036\01 Psychologycf Learning · SOC\'Cl24*02 Social Psychology . SOC\'03!J*Ol Sociology ~r the Family SPN*12.(}~Ql lntermedi11c1e Spanish I S!>N*122°0Z Advanced Spanisl1 WST*0\38\01 Faulkner & Morrison WST\'OSO*Ol Sociology of the Family WST*l4l2•0t Afiican-Alllerlcan. Thought THURSDAY. NOVEMBER Ul 1 1999-1:311-3:30 PM .ACC'\I) 1 ()\(l I Survey of A.ccoUllting AMU*034'\01 World Reli!lio11s & Music ANT*I)7ti*O I Tourists &. T<1ur:ism CER '\0'21\.01 Elemenuey :Surveying w!Lab CHM$0lJ*Ol AP ChemiS'Iry w!Llib ECO*I)JS\O I US-East Asian Eco Relations 1lCO*fl42\'02 Macro Theozy & Policy ECO* L 44*01 lntematil)na;1 Economics ECO*L-45*01 Managerial Economics ECO*l44*0 I Intematil>nlll.i;conomics EC0'\~44'\51 lntem;lti()nlll Economics MLT\D24*()1 Latin AnierCinema in Trans PHL *I)J CJ\O I Philosopl!ical 'Controversies PHL\'0-19\01 Freshman 'Seminar PHY'\()I7\01 Matter in Motion w/Lab PHY.'*IJ17*02 Matter in Motion w/Ulb · pSY\Ol0\-03 lntto io Psychology I'SY\O 10.,.04 lnlro to Psychology I'SY*«M9•o I Psychology of Addiction WST'O:tl\'DI Latin AmerCinema in Trans THUltSDA Y, NOVEMBER 18, tlt99 -7:011-9:00 PM CHM'\()3D•m Organic Cllemistry i w!Lab CHM*i030*02 Organic Cbemistry I w/Lab GMI*ZI:()!*52 Financial Acccunting GMI*Z31*S I Operations MIUlagement fiSS\'~20*51 Health Economics MER+ 132* 5! Composite Materials Tech ·!i\Ri!JA 'V. NOVEMBER.l9, 1~99- 9:311-H :30 AM CHM\O.l0~01 Fund Chemistry 1 w!Lab C::HM\'O 10*02 Fund Cll~mistry l w/Lab CHM\'010\03 Fund Cil~rrustry l w!Lab . CHMI<O 10~04 Fund Clte111istry 1 w!Lab . -EER~OJ8*01 Digital Computers w!Lab EER*OI.8\'Di Digital Compllters w/Lab PHY 4 04S•Ol The SolarSiystem · . Pt£¥•()45*02 The SolarSystent • FR:IJ}A. '\',NOVEMBER 19, t'9'l9- 1 :3!1-3:30 PM G8o•(i2J*()l Strat Dep Env of East NY wli..ab MTH\O 17\01 Calculus 4:Integra1 Vector MTH~O:SB*Ol Appls ofNialb to Eco l MTH\J::J6~<01 Real Variable Them)' PIN°140*0l QllantumMecbanics . SOC*U 1 o•oz Intro to. Si>eiology Anderson, A.M. Rosenthal, K. Bowman, R.A. Tyson, G. Fatic,V. Mann,'v. Arnold, D. Desarkar, C. - Suprunowicz, M Som,A. Boyer, B. Butterstein, G Jewell, T. Williams, G. Jen)dns, H. Hollocher, K. Kellenter, S. Hamrn\Ehsani K Ahnog,M. Miller, A.T. Hansen, E. Han~en,E. Wojnovich, M. Wicks, F. Zwicker, W, Newman,). Rieg, T.S. Moyano,P. . CamaClm\Platero L. Osuna, M. Mosquera. D: Reynolds, 'P.R. Reynolds, P.R. Zimmermann, K, Taylor, A. Taylor, A. Fairchild, W. Roy,R. Roy,R. Rosenthal, K Bick, T. Johnson, B. Zwicker, W. Ni~field, S. Rosenthal, K. Strosberg,M. Kilgallon, K.R. Olsen, T. Almstead, L. McCarty, T. Pavlic, E. Tanke,J.W. Chilcoat. A.M. Kellenter, S. Kellenter,S. Sargent,S. Miller, A.T. Khan, Y. Hollmann, A. Jones, C. Newman, I. Kbosropour, R. Hislope, R. DeBono,K. Rieg,T.S. OeBono,K. Benefc, K.D. Osuna,M. lzurieta, I. Pavlic, E. Benefo, K.D. Miller, A.T. Lippitt, J.B . McMullen, D. Gmelch,S. Wolfe,F.A. Foll,K. RC!yn()lds, B. Rafferty, M.C. Motabar,E. Lambrinos, J. Motabar,E. Motabar,E. Garcia, W. Brown,R.M. Seltzer, R. Marr,J.M. Me Whirter, J. Spring,.D. Santana,M. Dowling, T. Garcia. W. Adrian. J.C. Kahley-Woif, M.J. Arnold, D. Bowman, R.A. Lambrinos, 1. D' Andiea, G. Hagerman, M. · AndeiSon, I. Hageffilan, M. .Lou,K. TJ;av~r.c. Gajjar, J. Surman, R.A. Marr, J.lvf. Garver; J. I. .Zimmermallli, K; F;1irchild, w; Barbanel, J. Reich, (J. Goldner, M.A. . - NWSE22Z BAILl06 OLIN1()5 1IUMNll5 NWSE116 HUMNOl4 QL!Nl 15 SSCIOl4 HUMN112 NWSE222 BAlL207 BAlL2~1 BUTR300 . SSClOI4 SSCll03 OLIN307 HUMN1·16 SSCEOI2 BA!Ll06 ARtS2l5 SSCll04 SSCU04 HUMN213 NWS;E2~2. ~Aill04 NWSEl14 B:A:IL3\12 HUMN008 HUMNl'l7 HlJ.MNl15 HlJ.MNQ19 OLIJ'l ll5 OUN 11? BAH, 102 . BAfi2()7 BAll207 HUM:NQI4 HVMJ'!OJ~· HUM:NOI~ HUMN 115 HUMN 117 OLIN 107 BAIL :2()1 BAIL :r()4 EUMN HS HUMJHll4 SSCI~l2 AR'l'S 2i5 OLIN 306 HUM:N 008 HUMN (:15 HLMN.ll;~ STZH 106 HUMN2U HLMN 213 SSCII04 BAJL207 OLIN 101 HUMI}.l 012 NWSE 304 NWSEI14 N'WS!!303 SSCI 010 BA.II..:n2 B~L3CJO SSCI 010 BJ\]1...201 BA.ILH)() OL)»I02 llUMt-f 115 Bi\JL.2CJI BA:ILZ.07 I-liJMN:.Il6 AR1SZ:l) EfUMN()JO BlJ1Rl09 OLIN20l SSCII03 SSC1104 lfUIMN019 ~NDI6 IIUNNOI9 HUNN019 HtJMN.()(4 HUt.!Nt12 SSClCIIO NWSE3:00 NWSE116 ll.AIL312 BAILZOI B.A!Ll06 HUNN014 OLIN !IS OLIN 115 · HUNNll2 OiLIN306 Hl:JNl:>lll 5 N'NSE205 OUl'l HS OI;I'N206 (,)L!r>! 115 OLIN'204 ()LJ:N 107 NWSE210 NWSE116 NWSll114 OLrN 332 HIJMN'Ol9 ()LJ:N 107 BAEL 106 'NWS'E 112 SSCI104 ..

.. Advertisetnents • Lessons That Wil.l. Last·· . ' ... A Lifetime. OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL.· Plojt that c;-ollege degree to liSe by enrolling into the Air Fotcl!ll Officer 1'r~il:1ing SChool. uJ)oo suc::~ssful completion of the Of1icer irait'ling $dH.lol. you wilt become a commissiQned Aif Force qffiter with e11rned re$pect and benefits lite.~- great starting pay, rnedkcal and dental care.· managemen.t ane11ravet · opportunities. For more on 1\ow to Qt~alify an(l get your can~ef soaring with tile Air Force Officer rraioing Sotu:n>1, call 1 ~0-423-USAP. ()t visit our webSite at WMw.air'fO«Je.com · \iVWw.a1ffQ(CEl.¢om . CDC D,Pdat::es . .. . <Aar~er ~estiy. ~lTod. ..ay\.§tm~ber 30~!! i lZ \4pm ·m Memo:r~l Fieldhouse Business attire and 'resumes app;ropriate For seniors~ . - ATTENrJON 5ENJdRS!!! . OctQber- 1 -.All d~;y 9ro]l - hts from 9-5 i~ the CPCI . Resume D:rop I)eadline. Dropqff your rcsumeo at th¢ CDC for fall recruiljJJ~. c;:-cDlplete the Rec~i'1ing Conttact to piu'ticipatc:- Oc:to>ber.4- Net\\\o.rking lOh 5:3()pn:> tor GM.l. and 7pm for uSldcrgr.aduates at the CDC. . · O~ober '5 - Boslto:n. NYC Recruiting Day Information Sesskln . 4 and 7pm in the (:'DC. October ..5 - Rec:ruitine.Sesson • 4:30 and 7:30pm in the CDC. . YC?u tume~ in a r~su1pe (or on-campus 4nter-views, now what? This · bnef 20 m~nu~ meetta~g mforms you of' :What to CXJJCCf. next. Clct>Ober 6 - Teach for Anlceriea lldormation Session • 6pm, C:DC, RepJ\e$elltatives 'will be at the CDC to <liscuss opp<>MtmittJ.es. IOcoober ~- ~a:rkteting You .. Liberal Arts ;Dearee .- 7pm,' CDC. · Oc::tober 7 - Wrj:l:lng a Perl!l«>nal Statement tor Law School- 4:30pm. CDC. October 819 • Wat.c:h for Al'u~mul Panels at Homecoming on Law, Non- . Profit and Wall ·street · · . ·. Qlllll-(orbiensis • September 30, 1999 • Page 7 Announcing EDUCATIONAL STUDIES PROGRAM INFORMATION MEETINGS FOR UNION COLLEGE FRESHMEN AND SOPHOMORES ~dne,J.ay,. October 13 .. 1 OOQ 9:00A.M. U:OOA.M. AND 2:00P.M • LAMONT HOUSE- 3rd Floor Conference 'Room (518) 388•6361 MAKE .A DIFFERENCE •.•. ••• become a teacher! Stadelllr wbG an: ooasidering amra iD secondary school teacla!Dg for grades 7-12 io English,.modero or ebu!lc lampaga, mathemati~:S, sclmce (biology, cllemhtry, eartll scieaee, playsia, general scieoce). or sodll eltldies shookhttelld. 'lnfo.._tioD will be given rtgardiog tbnDdergradaate, .graduale; a11d :Ve-ye:~r·tollll!ined degree prognms, CHOOSING TilE RIGHT ..... \ . . ~ - - . ~ -, . RE\...._.I ....... 1 1_..K..._• ~EMENT COMPANY MAK EI:S -- . ' '· ALL .TI.IB DIFFERE~NCE. F . or- ovc..- 80 .Year:!:'~.. T'I.AA- CRl·•:..J-- has ... _ btfi:!:~n t.he lea..ding retit-e·me:nl c· .• cnnp.a.ny Clon. Aa:ncri.co:.t. 1 S' car.n.flliL.t:!<lcs. But: e~peri-enc:::e 1s just\ <>ne :r-ease>n. -w·h.:>\ so man,y sn,.a.r.t.. i.c1·ves1.or.s t...rust. us wit.h thei.r f-1n..a:ncia.J f·'w..ttu.li''C- HC'ro are a Few rru:~re: S\U. pe:r.i<>_. .s\t:r\engrh Wi-th n-vcr $..250 bi1li<>n in a.:!';s:;et's u nd.er :rn,;p,n- .a._ge..-nent ... ~[1\.A-CR.l....:.F iis t..he world's largcs1;' roec..iren:'lent. <:JOrgani:zatiun. -- o:.'t.nd a.·l.\£1..<>ng the :n:\l<>st' s<~lid. It\!\; <>ne e»l' t-he reasons why Jlw~ornoi 'ngsta.r sa,__ysJ ••rriA.A.:-CI~t.;:.F ,!,ic:'t.s t:hc :s-t.a.nc:lard in the fi.n.a:n:ci-. .. ..1 scrvice.s in.c::h..1.st:ry.»• 1 Se>Ii.d, l.c::.:n.g--t:e:rm perfor:a::a:•a.:n..ce _· \\'Ve seek ou!L 1.oo.g- term <>ppor1:Li.nitic.s that <'lPthc-r .C<Jompa.n.ies, i~ purs11...1.ij: oF <..1-uic:.'k g.a:ins., ~n.en n:-.is:s. ~1 1 h.a.ugh past. pcrt<.~i·man.ct...-: can '1: guara.<Ln~t:c~ f-'u.il::ur.c rcsLIIts. t:h~s pa:tien.t philos..,. 'Oph.Y has pn·o.ven. ex.t r-e:rnely re......vcl.rd irtg. - - .. ::Elns-u..rln.g the ft.::d;:u.re ~ 1:::ho.sc,:: ...,..,..,.h.o ~bape i..t::\\ SU.r.pris.i.n.gly .lc:Jt-wv e:x:pe:n.ses ~~~LI\.A-;CRI::O:..l;o's C:ll'pclf\'.a.t:i.ng ~.:.Josts arc .aJTlcu·w.g the lc:1twest: in the insura.a\tc.:e n.nd mutual fun.cl in<:h.ist.ries. 2 So .rn.ore -o1\ycn .. lr money g~:JJC:~ ........... here ir shc~u:h::l - tc~w.a.rc::J ~r11sur\i~ your f'ut:l..l re. Easy d.i'\V'ersi..fi..ca.ti..c:»..-1 We qfl'er .a vvi~e ....-a.t·iet.y -ol\ e.x.pcl·tly m;:.tn.,;:.tgcd invc:...\':stmcnt: <\:f>t:'i.or:as tn help l:n..J.ilo:l _your . .a....;sets. \\'\e lTlla1<e it: .simp,Je, ~o:>o. with stock. b-ortc...-l., :rnon.ey market._. ·real csll:a.t:c .... ~:ncl ,g'l..l.ara.nt'ecd '->f\Jti a:.\Jn s. U:oa.ri:~ra.1ed • serVIce w~ believe that- our service dist-i ngui:shes us :From C'V'ca:y <Jther rct.i:rcmcn.t c<.>mJ'l',a.ny_ Ira. the rcH.>st re:cent l.:>o;.l..lb.a. r ;!';.l..l. r-v.e~Y· \'ri.J\.A-GR.El· 1 ranks t..ops 1:n pul'·t:ici.pat:'io~n. sat:i. sfac.:ti on. .. .:s Call l oda..y 1.0 find out. h o .... v ~ J • lL'\.A- Cl-{_f..~I·· c.:an help _yuu bui:ld the fi-na.n;:,~i.al (:u·L·U·re you vv.anot a..nd deserve. \T'c. fi J'\l d c \>\.ll:' m c: :Jrc - give: l..J :s a ca.U .or vi~i.lt' <')Ur \vchsi•&: 1 800 84.2-2776 ~- tiaa-creF.org ~ .... rt.'->~I:,J:\il'o\\•\\'·- J:{,,,: .. .i\1,.... .~.,,,....,,,;r,~;.....,..·r .. rTr\ .. ti~';JS(k-'99 .. 2s,... .... , ..... ~ .. n\\ ,. ·i' ~~~\'~' IJ'-!o'IJ .. Nt.rh\ N:A,-I,.,r:,.y ....-lr,•r(.y...- •• , 'ILJo'C~I.J: o&i:n .rl 1 .•• r:t-pl. .. r ,..,1'-ul~·l ••·~··I ~-.:-r\\•i,·\\'\. I ru: ••. ',.r;•,r..·~-~ll',r.•,·.L .. •.-;• '.,-lud(-.,ti.A.wl fk~~~•· I•)\J~~ (\JLh.a.nc-r-~v ') ~ 1~...~\W ~11.::\ I{, ll'h .. ·•• .1~~7 JA ~irJ~.<tV t ·,,_,.n*i\i'rt£rli..W ·f•;..,.,. •• ~f.o,.Ri.a' R~t,~.id\~.J.•. 1·~,.,.,. ••~a.t/'IW L .. , .. n.,.lua..\\\ it:.iC.:.)•rn.o&it.t h, iraot·I~H:Iir•.r c•l*ll.rrt;rlf u rtt~! I\'H]liW I\'HI.'\H• .;•o:a.il I H()C) .Kat::i · 7T:S.\\i, •• x:. ,-,.r,.ti\.l. a·\..- c._-:u. 1•'. I·· .,,n,l 1\1 ....... ' ·•\~-c.\'u I F•u..,.,. .. ;'(..t·l,:\'·~ ...... ,l J .. ,... .... folll]>\'<.'lt .... l'.:,.. 1-t; .... -o~~ct .,~a.~··\i1;. oc.·~r~l\u IL ....... !l:x: a·,,.v t\w-Oa..l in .. -c- ... t- (for' -«.=l'l.c:l t\''~Url-t:.}\• •y J .. ..,. ....... c: aj·: L·i l iuli .... io:!h\\~ r.,l.llU. [u. ... .c: ic Pt .... .u..u.l ..!; .. , ....... a ..... -., tlli .... ~i l•u'-\'\ <-:.n. f·~~..-· ,.,. ... i:rt ··~~ ....... tor••• ilnl: ... r\\'i\MI\ :=n I \'•· •.••. ,. \'\ U.&.•u I i : Hk-.u<llllll• ,-'\,.; oli •c-.1 t t'tC.

Page 8 • September 30, 1999 · <lrllttCormensis OP/ED ¢: .. 0chlorials ', ____ ,,,_.,: .·''\ • •:~ .. _.:::~'',, ·' .:~.,-~_.'.,_~·-~.:~~ ... ::~:-.·:~\:.~ • ;,•,,,,',,,,.:-h ·.:',;.:'1 1 ,,·, ·.J•: •,'~_,;';_, .-:-,,•: . .:.:~:~-J:::::L-.\i.-:,.,:.', .• :.:.:.:~·- •'v< '•.'...;•<, CoiUe Home Roger As President Hull and Price Chopper CEO Neil Golub and a host of others strive towards the goals of Schenectady 2000, they should pause for a moment and reflect on the achievements that they have accom- plished. Most recently, Hull has successfully integrated Union stu- . dents and Schenectady residents into the Seward Place neighborhood. ·• While Hull pauses, he shouid take a look &t the campus he was hired ·. to preside over. As Hull works hard to impmve Schenectady, it seems as ·. though he has forgotten about what should be the most important 1 00 . acres in the city of Schenectady- the Union College campus. · ' ! I I I i ,' ' ! i I I j ~Tl~.~~>.i. ~j~~ ... ~· . As Hull improves Schenectady, Union isuot living up to its potential, • the college is not improving, nor is rapidly declining. However, it is •. stagnating in all spheres of life. Union's academic, social, and Sports • scenes are all stagnating. As the president of the college, Hull sh.ould •. be continuously taking proactive steps to improve all areas of the col- lege. At this time, he has great plans to improve Union's surroundings, · and.nothing else. · ' Union has been stagnant in the U.S. News and World Report rankmgs recently. The academics of Union are sta~nant. Cheating is ram-pant, . and the administration has not announced any kind of plan to combat this problem, which eats away at the core o-f any academic institution. , \' .. ~~~~!:~§~;s~~~~ Erika Mancini Something also must be done about the Union College Greek system. ' Since the current class of seniors has entered the college, although one · fraternity and sorority have been re-admitted an campus~ two other fra- . temities and a sorority have been kicked off camf>US. Just this past . summer, bean Alford announced that the <Jollege would be taking the Orwellian steps of expelling any student WB()associates with two frate:r- nities thathtve been kicked off campus. Most importantly, the fact still remains that the basis of the campus' socia.llife is still underage drink- ing, which turns away prospective students; each and every year. Noth- ing is being done to reform this system, wnich aside ff()m turning pro~ spective students away from Union, also ignores New York State law. Union's sports teams are also stagnating. In regards to Union's most high-profile sport, men's ice hockey, HuH wants to have his cake andeat · it too. He was one of the ones leading the charge to lift Union's program to the Division I level and refuses to entertain any thoaghts or rurn()rs about a possible return to Division III. At the same time, he nob 1y refusesto offer scholarships to any member of any sports teams, astbe men's hockey team feels more and more at home in the cellar of tlte ECAC. The improvement of the neighborA.oodts surrounding Union's cam- pus will undoubtedly help Union and Schenectady. This project, as time has shown, will not occur overnight. In the meantime, Hull must noi forget tlle job he was brought in to do. Hull's primary role shauld befhe improvement and promotion of Union Cotlege. At this point, the foc.us of Hull's attention is the city of Schenect~dy. That needs to change~ JED Letter ~olicy & Disclaimer . Letters to the Editor should be: addressed to the OP[·. D page and must be received by 5 PM the Monday eforepublication. Letters mustbe less than 500 words··. nd should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union . ollege community. Final decisions concerning printing and! or editing a.- ubmis.sion belong to the Editorial Board~ All letters.· ust be signed (though requests for anonymous·· ublication may be considered by the editors) and save~ n a high density disk. Letters dO> not necessarily reflect he opinion of the Editorial Board. Editorials reflect the. opinion. of a majority of tlle ditorial Board, and of no one member in particular ... ny opinion columns or cartoons reflect the opinions. fthe writers or artists, and not necessarily1he opinions f the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in Concotdiensis do not . ecessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board. Concordiensis is printed by World Media, 1104 entral Avenue, Albany, NY, 12205. A Rulllor of Rape by Lis Kidder Opinions Editor This afternoon I heard a disturb- ing rumor about rape· from Sf?Veral diff~rent people. Some said it hap- pened in West, some .said it hap- pened in a fraternity, some said two males were involved, sgme said one, but they all had the same thread running through them: they were . strUng . together with unsubstan- tiated facts and.amounted to noth~ ing more than hurtful gossip. I was appalled by this lack empathy and tabloid-like obses- . sian with a tragedy for s.everal rea~ • sons. Initially, it struck me that the alleged victim must be horrified by the rumors spreading, like the ware- \ house frre oflast week, across cam- . pus. In a time during which she · should be supported by her college community, she is instead treated as if she was involved in a scandal Rape· is a crime ~ it is not \who dumped who,\ or other such still hurtfu~ but relatively harmless gos- sip. The survivors ofrape face years of emotional and psychological dif- ficul.ties resulting from this ctitne. And in many cases, the way the victim is treated by her community after th~ rape makes a huge differ- ence in her healing. As a corntnU· nity, we should be ashamed of tlie: · way we are treating this alleg~d victim. Rape, for the victim, is ah.orrible loss of control. In the aftermath of rape, control becomes par~mourit for the victim. This inclQ:des con ... trolling how and when and who she tells !lbout the rape. If she de~ cides to pr.ess charges, he1 story will be widespread and mmy will hear about it, but because she has made the choice to tell people, the experience can be a healing one. If she decides to not press charges, as many victims do ( apprmcimately 30% of sexual assaults are re- ported to law enforcement offi- cials) because they fear exactly what is happeningnow, she should be allowed to tell her story when she is ready. On our campus, we have many options of survivors of sexual as- sault, such as Safe .Space, which has a beeper number (1-800-283- 2255) victims cancall if they need to talk to someone. But a victim of sexual assault who has 'been so poorly treated as the all~ged vic- tim in this case is less likely to try to seek help ~ in most C;;Jses she will bury the incident. As a com- munity, we should encourage vk- tims to speak out about their expe- rience, as .silence binds many sur- vivors, but we sh.ould not speak out for them 1 especially when we don'thave the f:trst clue about what we're talking about. Now we should look at it from a different perspective: suppose the · mrnfi< bas ne truth t{)' it; whieh is,a ' . . Not only are we put- ting a woman in .the very distress- ing (as one in four women on ow campus know) position of a rape victim, but we are marring the repu- tion of one (or was it two? .'-''-'\•\'·vvdy said it was two ... or maybe three) men. Rape does happen at Union. It happens ahnost every we.ekend, yet only two were reported last year, It is important for the campus to ~ave an open dialogue about sexual assault in an attempt to pte- vent it from happening. But rumors a~e the wrong way to talk about rape. If you are .a survivor of sexual assault, please do :not let the in~ sensitiv_e behavior of eur campus deter you from speaking out. If you need to talk to someone; can· the safe .space beeper or RAINN (the Rape Abuse and Incest National Network) at 1-800'-'656-HOPE. . Lights Out on Term Abroad Dear Concordiensis, I was writing my term abroad:'~s- · say due at five o'clock on Friday. ' Unfortunately, the power went out a little after four. My Microsoft Word didn't automatically save it. Three hours of work down the drain. Why can't the school just have back-up generators? So, they're a ·. little noisy, but I would have had my essay in on time. I went to the department, begged for an extension ... after crying, they letme have 'til Monday morning. But I still had to start over. Back to tlie gen.erator.s. We pay enough money to come .here. Like, Why cart 't we;: just have power? I mean, Webster's had power dating the failure, while we didn't They have a different grid, why can't you just wire the generators from that grid? Come~on campus ops, get on it! I still have nigl1tmares about my computer turning off. One second - a beautiful essay ... the next - a black screen. I really hope that I get to go on my terq1 abroad. My second es- say wasn't as good as my first one, yeu' know, the one that.gotzapped away by the failed electricity. But all-inNall I think my essay will be okay. · · On a different note, I like what you're doing in J:he paper this year. I read it by flashlight while the power was offartd I was waiting to re-do my essay. Thanks, and keep up the good world Signed, Crying-In-The-Dark . ... OPI c ~ b - .. -.- Th: tom) theTl New to ta~ On re<1.d: onlir surpr hefo r.epre co:nt:I billt toge issue Con! a ch~ Tb App1 billv the Com How Arne divi~ with have Cc wou mon the B, II IU -D . I

.... I' Congress IgnoreS Constitution by Micb41el S. MfGuire Copy Editor This Week I was forced to write to my co:ngres~man, Peter King of the Third Congressional Disttictof New Yotk. Whatshotild cause me to take such .drastic measures? · One afternoon last week, wltile t:eading the New Yo~k Times, online, I learned that, to my surprise, a bill might be brought· before the House that vvuo.uu., represent a compromise for control legislation. 1t was to . bill that would bring both 'sides together on this controversial issue .. , I was elated to fmally see Congress do something good for a change. Then I read the rest of the article. Apparently, attached to the same. hill was to be a provision allowing the posting of the . Ten Conunan.dments in public schools. How can that he, you might ask. In America, there is supposed to be a division between church and state, without which we could not truly have freedom of religion. Congress, in passing the bill, would justify it by blaming the low morality of the American youth for the recent shootin s in · ublic schools across the United States. The low morality ofthe American youth? I find this theory har'd to sw-allow. It seems to me that it is the ease with which the young people were able to purchase the gu,ns, some at gQll shows, which would be to blame for the shootings .. I fail to se~ how the morality of America is to blame for something 1hatcould be curbed by removing assault weapons from the .general public's reach. · It is not Con,gress' place to dictate morality to me, or anyone else. It is not their place to decide that the Ten Commandments is an appropriate moral basis for children. What ab(Jut Americans who do not follow the teachings of the Old Testament? Should non-Judeo-Christians be considered immoral? Is that The Personq[s! wh~t we want the natii.(}n's youth to believe? That d()es not reflect religious freedom. ltis beginning to sOUJ\dlike Congtess.,is:selecting a religious founclationfor America. · Last time I checked it was not illegal to be an atheist. And so,. with disappointment that was spawned fr()in hope, I wrote toCo!J.gressmaihKi:Qg; of the Thi:rd. District on Long Island. I asked him to keep in mind the values of aU Americans, not just Judeo-Christians. ,[ reininded him th.qt just because ne is a member ofthe Republi,can Ptjrly, he need not ftOUow them .. n\''\rn·e'Very ridicul()us path they choosetotake. He is an intelligent . Ile has gone against his party befme. He did not vote to · im}Jeach PresidentCl:inton. There is hope yet. But there are still .a great many Republican in the Hou'Se of Repre.sentatives tbat would welcome such a measure. Th((y would tum their bac:ks on those who. would think differently than they. I am not claiming there is .anything wrong with the Ten Co:tnm.andments. 1 onJy feel that it wo11ld be distinctly un,-American to have \Thou shalt h:ave no other g<lds befo1e me\ p()sted in our laces of ublic education. Back by popular demand. the Concordiensis Personal Section will be featunng YOUR pers~:<mal ads. Submitting isjin-. just email: c()ncordy~ vu.union.edll . B, DP, Witt, I know you can get a 165. Good · luck this weekend. I h~pe this weekend doesn'tgo against the norm. l'r'Vallna do it on y()UJ'bed~ Youbetterwatchout! -D -FSJ .. Roomie ToKS, Jllnior, -~• .. uu luck on Saturday.There's · Thanks for the macaroni and the ltoominthe waterbed afterwards. memories. Keep using your brain. See y()~~:Saturday. -NR ~Turtle Bril'ish American He will be happy to meet with student's interested in· BADA's programs: 1 The London Theah·e Program Presented in association with S<;.r«;~h Lawrence College at Regents Park london 2 The 1Ylidsurnn11er in O,x.ford Progrcun Presented with The Julliard School and UCLA at Balllol College, O~ford 3 Th«lt Shak•speare Prograan Presented in association with Skidmore College in Strratford-uporw·Avon and in London Where applicab•e 4 ln'H'c:lloducl'ion t-o Fil...,. PI\'CCIograrn Ad'V'Cinced Filn. Progrca . .,... . Presented by the British American Filrn Academy (BAFA) in assc:x=iation '-Nith Vassar College ALL WELCOME A Message From Safe Space Applications are due Friday, October 1st TOMORROW Pick up applications in the Student Activities Office. Both men a~d women may apply. Safe Space is a Confidential Support Group for Victims and Survivo,rs of Rape And Sexual Assault Safe Space offers survivors an opportu- nity to share their experiences in a comfi- dential and supportive atmosphere. We offer extended support throughout the healing process. Members of Safe Space can be reached by beeper or by phone t() answer questions and provide support Safe Space Beeper:# 1-800-283- 2255 pin: 11349 Olnncor.bi.ettsis The Student Newspaper ofUnitJn College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper http:l/concordy.union.edu Brooke M. Barylick- David C. Brooks Jr. EDJTORS-JN\'CHJEF Jaime Lapine EXECUTIVE EDITOR Elisabeth Kidder OPINIONS EDITOR Jim DeWan NEWS EDITOR Rachel Bukowski SPORTS EDITOR Lori Greene Kimberly Rebback & E.EDJT.ORS Kaelyn South PROMOTIONAL MANAGER Sloan Miller Aaron Seliger 'HOTO EDITORS Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOON!ST SJ()an Miller SCIENCE & TECH EDITOR Neil R()utman WORLD NEWS EDITOR Miehael S. McGuire COPY EDITOR Oanielle Devine Amanda Jackson ADVERTiSEMENT COORDINATORS Eugene Schultz FEATURES EDITOR Scott Seullion FACVLITADVISOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Sltannon Comtty, Elizabeth Daigle., Jen11ifer MacDowell, Rebecca Walsh. STAFF: Matt AronowU:z, Jeffrey Ausfeld, Steve Ayers, Jessica Brearton, Gina Campanella, Lisa Carbone, Michaela Cautel:a,.l3:eather Clements, Erin Connolly; Mary Feltom, Stephen Flaherty, Peter Flynn, Matt Gendron, David Gmner, CourtneyHayden,Deric HarringtoD, Mike lger, Clark JoBes, Joll Kelson, Stephe11 Nemeth, Brian Roaclhe, Steve Schuler, {{ate Schmidt, Mark Shemel, Adam .. Paul Smolal4 R01ryStern, Jess Stephens, Lee Stevens, Jon Tapper, Katrina Tentor; Charlesi11thill.

Looking Downward Attack of ttt.e Squirrels by Alex Bartholmew Staff Writer Hello again, this is Kidd, yout local rock-jock here filling you in on all the latest geo-hype. For those of you who read last week's article, I apologize for .the rough- ness; it was my first ti)lle. Hope- fully this week's will be a little easier on the eyes. First, the title of my article last week was not of my doing; the one submitted was too long and the editor changed it on me (thanks Gene}. I had original'ly entitled it \Walks and Talks,in the Geologi- cal Field,\ as you can see it is kind of winded. I was a little upset as were some of you at the '\Rocks Rocks, Rocks\ title, as I felt it a little de- grading. Oh well, you can't al- ways get what you want. Secondly, I know that some of you felt a little offended by my description of geologists as being mentally four or five. This was not meant to be a broad generalization, but some of you took it that way. I am gener~ ally a happy person and never bored. I believe this ·is because I can see beauty and wonder where ever I go. Little kids look at things inno- cently from a perspective that most of us have lost {myself in- cluded), but I strive to view the world from tltat perspective. When you see a building, I see rocks that tell me a story if 1 choose to hear. When you see a little stream, I sense it in so many other ways. I feel its soothing coolness, hear its endless babble, taste its freshness, smell its musk, and see its name written where ever it has passed. A. J. MacClean once wrote some- thing along these lines ... The foot- prints of God can he seen in the rocks, and the word of God can be heard in the byTom Burke Contributing Writer When I left on the Fourth of July this summer to go to Russia, I had no idea what was in store for me. In retrospect, I am glad that I had no expectations because I could never have dreamed of aH the things I learned, saw and ex- perienced in St. Petersburg. Professor Iosse] of the English department headed the summer Literary Seminar in his hometown, formerly known as Leningrad. Our two weeks started out when the en- tire jet lagged group went for a cruise through the river and canals that traverse the city, where mid- night is fully visible underneath the Petersburg White Nights. Assimilating was probably im- possible for us Yankees, yet even on our first night we were greeted with open arms by the generous friends ·of the program. I have to say that Russian~. al- streams ... hopefully at the end of reading this you will understand a little rnme. Water. It surrounds us and makes up about 80% of our body. This is not going to be some tirade on water conservation, but an in- sight into the water's effect in na- ture. I believe water is the most potent force on Eatth, second only to gravity, to which it is closely linked. Water is a primary driving force behind erosion, the process of the breaking up and wearing away of rock. Water can erode in three main ways: scouring, or the wearing away of rock by particles carried within the water or ice; dissolving the rock; and freeze-thaw weath- ering. Scouring of rock by partie les carried in water can be seen every- where, from little valleys that form in the dirt during rainstorms to big valleys carved by glaciers. The to- pography (physical landforms) of our area has all been glaciated. Huge ice sheets were once right were we are in Schenectady. These large moving bodies of ice carved and formed every inch of land that you see in the area. The i.ce also carried rocks within it that made little parallel scratches in the rock it passed over. These are called striations and can be used to determine the direction of ice movement. Little rounded pebbles are often seen in the beds of streams. As a pebble moves down stream, it col- lides with other rocks and little chunks break off. As more and more chunks break off, it becomes more rounded. The collision of the pebble also changes the shape of the other rock and can be seen in the form of little dimples in the large rock. The dissolving of rock by water is a cause near and dear to my heart. Certain . · es of ro~k ar~ . ui!e though this is generalized, keep t() themselves until they have made a connection to someone, especially a foreigner. Yet I contradict that with a story of me sitting on a park bench writing a poem and being persuaded by two Russians to drink beer with them and speak to each other through the interna- tional language ·Of point and grunt. Aside from the cultural stimu- lation that comes from almost as polar opposite of a civilization as there is to Union College campus, I was constantly immersed in the most enlightening, provocative and truly l).seful conver-sations that I have ever had the privilege of finding myself in. I did, on occasion, want to wring the neck of this Southern hyper- ego-thinks he's Walt Frost Barges- but in hindsight, he is a unique dude that only added to the confu.- sion and excitement of explora- tion. Some wonderful authors attd models of the literary coll1ltlunity susceptible to being dissolved by acidic water, namely carbonate rocks. · Waietinfiltrates into cracks and pores oftherock, and being addic, breaks the bonds of the chemical · stru.cture of the rock, taking ions into s.olution. by Brian Kern Conrtibumng Writer I've seen plenty of wildlife. I don't live far from here, but where I live could defmitely b~ consid- ered \the country.\ It's hard to ride a bike down the road without com- This process is then reversed · • ing across a deer or other large when the water carrying the ions wild animal. Thi~ is especially no- bits the a.ir and the water deposits ticeable when the inept hunters in its dissolved load, as we call it,. in . our area flush them out of the the form of rock known as . woods, Fewpeopleeyersltoot~ne spele'()thems or rafts and· crusts. of the various herds of de~r that Spel'eothems are deposits that roam.our neighborhood, but the fofllJ.: in a ~ave by the precipita- hunters do a good job of m~king tion of mi9-erals by water. sure the deer eat all the trees on Rafts-are what form at springs . our property down to the roots. and in pools where, at the water- Anyway, this pales in C0111Parison air contact, minerals are being de- · to the wildlife here at Union Col- posit-ed. · · lege. Crusts are what form on things I'm obviously talking about the that water flows over and are ag- squirrels, and l hope I'm not the glotneration points for the miner- only one who has noticed this. The als to grow from. This process of • interesting nature of the squirrels dissolution erosi9n is what makes . first came to light during freshman caves. If any ofyouknow-me,you orientatian. know that I love caves (sorry · As thrilling as those fust four mom)- days were, the fun ofhauling shop· 'These little or big holes in the ping carts and other garbage up a ground are beautiful in their own hill is nothing like· being jumped way and offer a chance to explore by a squirrel. Actually, the jump- into the unknown. Did I me11tion ing was later. I believe it was the caves rule!? Finally, freeze-thaw erosion is the process by which water seeps into cracks in rock, freezes, and · ex.pands, breaking the rock apart. W a:ter is an odd substance for this quality and this method of erosion is n()t a small one. Cliffs often show signs of free'ze-thaw erosion in the form of big blocks of rock that have tambled down the slope called ta- las. ., S.o, 1 hope you all have learned a little bit about the force of water today. Tnis is a little different than so called hard-rock geology, but is important in its own right. Now, everyone go out and see the world from a new perspective and you _will all \Qe ha _ ier for it. We're eager to help in anyway they comld, aiding those from any stage of writing. This seminar gave me the confidence in writing that I had . ne'Ver had. I wasn't told that my stories were publishable, yet I was given perspective, goals and an ag-enda far beyond anything I had ev.er concocted here on campus. Tb.is trip gave me the chance to spend two weeks with people that Vlere entirely serious abo'Ut devot- ing their lives to a pen and paper, something I had never been ex- posed to. I suggest to anyone who is re- 11ltOtely interested in a career of wiiting, likes seeing how people outside the gates form their liveli- hoods, and don't mind surviving without the comforts of our cozy palace for a while to check out this pio gram. I cannot say enoU;gh about it, a.s is apparent, but I re- ally think it is a wonderful oppor- tunity; I am even considering a re- tllm next su.rtm:ier. sleeping squirrel that was- my ori- entation group's flrst contact. As we sat in front of the desig- nated tree (because there really are only two trees on campu.s-thanl<s Karen)where my group was meet~ ing-, once again waiting for the group member known as Dougb- nu:t, we spied a squirrel on the pavement. We assumed the poor little crea- ture must have perished (probably under the wheels of that mobile food cart named Fred). However, thanks to the talents ,of the local security guy, the squirrel was re- vived. In reality, the squirrel was just taking a nap in the middle of the road. I hope I don't have to tell you this isn't normal. Now I'll tell you we weren't actually jumped by a squirrel It didn't try to rob us or anything. But somehow it managed to fly out a garbage can, over the heads ,of many group members, and into a bush on the other side ofthe walk- way. This was countered by the shouts of a few girls. Speakingofwhich, girls, please don't scream, it bothers everyone with ears. As I was. saying, some- h()w this fearless squirrel had p~pped out .of a: ga:~bage can and Sown. through the air. This tnakes rne wonder what\s in the food at the cafeteria, but that'~ ~topic for another d~y. The lesson here is th.:at you should al-ways be w-ary of garbage cans. If you hear a rus- tling, please, for the love of God, get away. And run, run foi your life,. because you don't want to .lmow what unholy creature is re- :;ioding in there. Unfortunately, tll.e garbage cans. ~r:e not (h~ only places our little mends call hotne. There qre al- ways the trees, which is where . squirrels are suppo:sed to live, so 1 suppose this is !!OC>d. Unfortu- nately, this gives 1hem a serious height advantage. Jsu~gestwalk­ ing around with a.n umbrella, as y-ou never know wb.en a squirrel will jump out of a. tree onto your head. At ~hat poi:nt you.'d prob- a.bly have to wrestle with it for 'Rhatever you are eating. A geod way to avoid tllls is by not carry- ing food with yell, or on yoU;, or · Iuving been neu food within the .past half hour. This is very seri- dus, as I actually witnessed a squir- rel carrying an €!L1ire bagel in. its mouth. You can ask the security person who saw it as well. If you can manage to avoid the garbage cans, and don't :miiJ_d car- rying an umbr:el1a. with you. at all times, you still must contend with the squirrels lying in wait in the grass. I suggest never walking through grass, but that probably won't help ~s the squirrels enjoy cheating <ieath by sleeping in the nriddle of Toads. To combat this problem you cansimplywea.rlongpants all ihe time. And tucl: them into your socks. Or, and this one was sug- gested by a friend, why not carry a baseball bat? ():r perhaps a tazer gun? Eifuer w:ay, I strongly rec- ommend runiliag when one of those nasty little animals gets a hold of your leg. Perhaps you can shake it off, perh.aps not. To end this article, Ijustwantto recormnend thateveryone on cam- pus get a rabies shot. I like squir- rels. They're fumy to look at. But if you get near one, beware. There's no tell:in.g what it will do to you. F, I dar top nal to as~ COl we Un wo enj in~ plc bm m eri: tin ex fin Ut Vii te: WI ni th be th h~ m th is In ci l pl o1 ni lc s: 0 D SJ 0 VI b v d 0 e c . :r: e ) I l 1 I

1 1 1 n 11 lr ,_ , y )r ,- If a n :o .1- r- ut e. lo Features Olmunrrurt15hi!i • September 30, 1999 • Page 11 U . . .. RIODISIDS I Can't Believe I'm Not Butter plaud the effort on behalf on din- breathsmell \coolranchy.\ 1';-Jow way it would be more effective is by Laura Cotton Contibuting Writter ing services to appear receptive · by Deric Harrington alii n.eed to do is to get it to smell if he went to this school, or if lle and open to advice and input from Staff Writer \nacllo cheesy'; on the weekends, read the Concordy ... or if his name the students, hut n:othing is ever ' ~~-------...,~-~-~~~ and tllat there is a week full of red was Jay ... or if he was a he. I fmd myself in quite the quan- dary when attempting to find a topic for the paper this week. Fi- nally, I decided th<lt I was going to write an article about certain aspects of Union that leave Us in complete bewilderment. This week's focus is dining services of Union College. Before I begin:, I would just like to say how much I, enjoy the effort put forth by din- ing services. We all take great pleasure in their theme dinners, barbecues, and biweeklybrunches in West. There are, however, sev- eral things,. one may wonder from time to time. done by means of~ppeasement to Hi ... I'm Deric, and I'm a pro- hot d.orito lovin'. Umtl1m ... I Back to using this column as a those who offer up su,ggestions. crastinator (crowd: HelloDeric!). don't mean that like sexaally ei- personal fotu:m. Pm currently Unionism three: How come I don't know if this is unique at aU, ther, I mean that in a nice breath looking for a date for this Friday ... someone can tell you have been to or even moderately amusing, but kind of a way. any interested ladies should st<>p eat at West? All they have to do is this article was even supposed to Speaking of sex with Doritos by my room for a intense question- come a bit closer and take a sniff · he tU:med in yesterday. How's (ult1liJn1m ... I mean) Speaking of ing period (I'm just kidding ofyowclothe's. H()W come, if you that? I waited until after the last \nice breath,\ this past weekend I folks ... if you do stop by, I'll hang havebeentoeatat\lpperclassthis moment. went bowling (ok, I can't seguet out and talk for a while, but I'm .remainsamystery?Inshort, West Eat your hearts out moderate Who.:aresthough). Meandabout not looking for a date, sorry. has aputridsmellthat11pperclass procrastinators,youhavemetyour 12 o.f my friends went out to Great, I j.ust bFoke the hearts of does not. No wonder so many of • match. In other news, I got an E- BQwler's Club (or whatever it is millions upon millions of my fans. Fox's inhabitants would rather mail today ... unfortunately, it had that .tlley 're called) for R.ock N• Don't blame me ... blame Doritos Unionism one: Have you ever examined the display of food one finds daily upon entering West or Upper class? Why does dining ser- vices find it vital to walk the extra- distance to upper · class than eat in th:e reeking halls of West. With these issues discussed', I would like to take this opportunity to appreciate the lengths to whi~h dining services goes to ensure our healthandhappine~s here at Union College. During orientation, all the freshmen ·and nothing to do with this article. If Bowl (which, now that I think (yes! I went all the way back and you have~y opinions onanything, ab()Ut it, is a clever take on \ro<;k made reference to a older joke that fed free to write me at n'roH,\wait sucked earlier in the column! Slapymcgee@aol.com (I'm going all ... my bad). That's good writing folks!)) to crash. AOL now; due to mass Anyway, for $10, you get to Well, I can tell by the way that influx of E-mail). bowl for about three hours. I have doctor is looking at me with that I'd like to take a second to plug to say that it was one of the most evil smile, either it's time for my Molilltebapks, which is the student- fun thlngs I've done since I've proctologist appointment, or my run theater group on campus. been here at Union. That's right, article is coming to an end for an- We''re always looking for ideas re- it's up there with that time I saw a other week. Let's all pray for the tempt our stomachs .-~-------.....--.....,.., OA's were privy to a · garding what you are intetested in squirrel. .. that day was the most latter. .. shall we? with a wonderfully gar- f , 1 lovely buffet meal on (and are currently seeking direc- special day of my life.. . I '11 fill you in next week on h()w nished piece of meat .the patio of the Ca:tn- tors, ifartyone is interested). Speaking of speciaJ. days, I my @$$ is doing ... wait, no I that has most likely pus Center. Qual'ity Juststopbyoneofourrneetings don'tknowifthishappenstoany• won't. Scratchthat(notmybutt ... been sitting there from knOW food was consumed at .(we meet on Thursdays at 5:30, in one else, but I completely lose you sickos). the minute the dining this oc:casion, and the theGteen Room of the theater), and track: of days while I'm at school Anyway, I'm going away n0w, hall opened in the We all attendees certainly en- BOOM you're part of mounte- Acol:lpleweeks ago, I noticed that but before I do, I just want to give morning. Now,Iknow Joyed the ~ood fare. banks! itwe~s my brother's birthday ... I yousomethingtothiilkabout... If that this enticing meal }.US{ Many .barbecues like I missed dinner last night. So, missed it completely. beatings aren't funny, and mimes is exactly what we have these, or theme din- how did I make up for it instead? I S(),I'm using this spacethatev- aren't funny ... how come beating in mind when we de- adOre ners, are provided to . ate a lot ofDoritos ... I don't know eryone reads as a personal forum the piss out of a mime is hilarious? cide it is time to eat, but the coLlege community . if that's considered a suitable re- (more on that later) to say Happy See you in seven, and don't forget I think I am speaking eating. every term to enhance . placement, but it did make my Birthday ! I guess the only to eat your pudding ... ~~~~oo~ili iliea~~~rein~--- 1 ----,-----p~---~-~-~----~T----.~~--~----- ofthecampuscommu- whichwedine. t s arty . lllle ~!;e;; rem~~=p~~;:~ 0 n cam- no~~::::~ !~~::: ' . Shouldn'titbeaBoard pUS, but when Karen's not by Michaela Cautela lege selected to be my friends Asthesevenofus(whowillre- ( aside from them being wonder- main nameless ... well, except for of Health concern? h around. To all those Sta++'Writer Doesn't that stuff W . en freshmen that don't w fulpeople), I planned a perfect Jonill, cause everyone knows I would like for you totlljnk that weekend getaway for seven girls Jonill- that's J-O-N-I-L-L) pulled spread the e-coli virus h. know ex;actly what I t . e urge· · the article you are about to read is who could pretty much entertain into the parking lot of the Holi<lay or something? It's a · · am referring to, let me \' going to be tilled with social im- tllemselves anywhere t.1ey went Inn on Wolf Road in Albany, we wonderful attempt on take this chance to en- behalf of dining ser- COmeS lighte11: you. Karen is portance, and if it can't enlighten Camping. I was all excited, lJe- began to worry that the managers you. in any way, th.en at least it will ca::use a few years ago I got a tent of the hotel might notice that there vices to beautify the the fldendly, bubbly dining hall and make fO COn- woman who formally be :funny enough to temporarily for Christmas and haven't really were just slightly more than two take your mind off .of that pap. er used it yet for any hard-core people staying in room 2204. The our stay all the· more worked for dining ser- . 1 b yoallave to write, or the exam you camping. So the se~en of us hotel has a strict policy abouth()w enjoyable, but in my sume vices, and wou d e . have to study for, or that exam that planned to go be hard-core in the many can stay in one room, even opinion, the display J found daily in West. you should have studied for, but Adi:ronda~ks. if you offer to pay for the extra . plate has the opposite vea She has moved to a t' · insteadfailedmiserably. However, SCJmehow, in the midst of my peop!e. I mean really. If we are effect. Picture this, if different area of cam- fi d . . this probably does not contain any plaming, I guess my intentions willing to cram four people into you will: It's Sunday 0· 0 . pus, the hockey rink., d 11 were m1'sunderstood, and the one .bed, shouldn't we be able to . · • • • d · 1 · d of the aforementione cure-a s. morning and as. you an ts sore y nnsse . \ · · k? s h The main reason is that I have noth- words \camping\ and \tent were do so, at our own ns . orne ow, saunter into west for We need·. . I know we ~11 just . 1 11 -a d .th. \h t 1\ d \Al. we used underground tunne·l·s. and ing even remote y important to te rep.1ace Wl o e an - . brunch, you are craving adore eating on cam- · d 11 b b \ d \h t tub \ Wh t I s. ecret passageways to sneak past you. I will instea te you a out · aay an o s. a bread to curb your a place pus, but when the urge . k d wa.nted to know was what ba-n- s. ecmity to the safety Of Our ro<>m. l 1 h f · t 1 my wee en . _r- ove Y angover rom comes 0 consume rea · A few weeks ago, 1 !tad what I peaedto being crunchy and weat- After an awesome dinner at the the past night. All you. '' food_ and trust me, I d ti · s kh h. h f 0 go. ~ considered to be an amazing brain- ing lllking boots an reezm.g our Lones tar tea ouse, we It t e want to do. is eat and go know that feeling, we stortnas to a funbaok-to-schoolget butts off in a damp tent in the hot tub and pool, then went back rightbacktobedforthe need a place tdo go. togetherforallofthepeoplethati middle of the woods, lost, tired, totheroomforaneveningofrev- remainder of the day, When I retume this · f .1. d was friends with last year and was and scared, with visions o u1e elry, rented movies, an roomser- when you eye that fall I found to my own afraid oflosing touch with this Blair Witch Project running vice. So it wasn't exactly the lovely concoction of amazement, that the 1.. h h d 'I Ok k I weekend bondm' · g wl.th nature that year, because we don't ail live on tur()ug our ea s. · , o , food resting on the wooden chef. Pedestrian Cafe had been closed the same floor anymore_ As a side guess I did just answer my own I expected, but if you want to know You think to yourself, \Well that's downovertheswnmer; Thatplace . dth h .t:..: d u· s· b e etv()te 1 ·f I had a good tt.me anyway, I note, isn't it werr at t e . .~:uen s ques on. o y some s cr , . pre~ clever and all,\ but the only was my haven. I always went there you make in college are most of- I was instantly demoted from would have to say that I had an thing it makes you want to do is to escape from the campus com- ten those people who a:re on your group social chair and trip plan- amazing time. And because of this vomit. Maybe when you are feel- munity and enjoy som~ good floor freshman year? 'Talk about nerto backseat follower. Not that weekend, Ilearned that Wal-Mart ing a bit better, you'll write a sug- home cooking in a relaxed envi- geographic selection. So anyway, I minded entirely, because I hate is pretty strict about censoring gestion card to dining services. ronment. I can no longer do that, in order to maintain frtendships tc make hotel reservations any- what pictures they will and will not And that moves me on to my next and this saddens me. I have heard, develop. with these people Who Union Col- way. object of curiosity. by word ofmoath, that the owner Unionism two: How come for took ill this summer and was all those lovely suggestions (okay forced to close down the cafe in so they're not all'that kindhearted), fear of going under. we never get any thoughtfuVuse- Now that i ha~e brought up sev- ful answers? In fact, it shouldn't eral questions Elnd issues to all of be a place to connnenton the food you concerning dining services, l selection, it should be a venting am off to eat brunch at West. board, a place to pick a fight with Though when [ return I may reek dining services. I know that.rrtany of that lovely aroma, I will have people just write rude complaints dined with friends and enjoyed or suggestions that are impossible excellent fare. 1 hope everyone to meet, but all that does is shadow continues to relish in the lovely the practical suggestions. I ap- fare the college has to offer,

Page 12 ·September 30, 1999 • CO:n:nrntmet~sig. . Feature$ Holy Smoke, Did You Know There Was A Fire? by Peter Eoruitz Contributing Writer [ usually don~t walk on the streets of small, ciepressed towns, and Schenectady, especially, had lately earned rny ire and disgust. What is Schenectady? When I pro- uounce the name mentally, the syl- lables reverber~te in echoes. fold- .ing in on themselves. Such a queer name. And su.ch a vapid town, seemingly. But several days ago, this newly forril.ed conception of the location of my life was. cracked into thou- sands of tiny pieces - almost as though it had never: been. Why, even the seni<lrs who had lived in the middle oftbiscenter for years seem to be as ignorant as ever. 'There are simply loads of things to do in Schenectady - not very few as I have been deviously ad- vised. On Friday, September 26, 1 was casually walking down the street (don't ask why) - Nott Street, I think it wa,s -sulking gloomily, bro()din.g with self-per- petuating anger and self-pity on the lack of outlet for anything any- where in the area of Schenectady. Suddenly, I saw, with th~ comer ()f my eye, darlmess among the leaves .of the trees. My first reac- tion was surprise at the existence ofleaves on those trees. I thought' that they would all have been long since withered from the overbear- ing lamenessoftke place. My sec- ond thought VIas \Goodness! What is that?\' It was, indeed, as many of you probably know, smoke made by frre. In fact, some- thing was burning in Schenectady -some old warehouse, some said. 1'here were conflicting reports as 1() the beneficiary. But no matter •.. 11le important part was tlle enjoy- ment derived by all, or almost all. Certainly, the. locals of Schenectady were the greatest beneficiaries. This sort of enter- tainment is a great example of mass cultural events that the city has to offer. Let none say that S-chenectady is a hole of some sort, or that \'Schenectady is not Heaven.\ This particular event was very well organized. A steady crowd s1reamed toward the undulating piles ofbillowing smoke that rose s.kyward, unwavering. The !'ar- ticular darkness and seeming heaviness, as well as energetic motion of the sm()ke, served to . . alert people to the commencement of festivities. It was actually simi- tar to and worked prob~tbly better than the bells in the Metropolitan Opera house and the flashing lights of Memorial Chapel during the performance of Boris. Beresovsky. The experience W<~.S wonderful; men and women of all ages; chil- dren and the elderly, a:ll trekked across town t() see a great event. How beautiful were the tongues of red, licking gently the smoky airs ;around them and turning the use- less beams ofwo<Jd int<l pillars of color. The vapors (){waterfonnedinto a brilliant rainbow, twisting away into infinity amid the pillows of smoke as those ted icicles of fire illuminated them. And I met few indeed that would say that they were not impressed with the show. The amphitheater parking lot was nearly packed half way througbthe spectacle. Horns seemed to be ringing, adding t1a- · vor to. a fantastic affair. The first \fire truck~' that I saw was one froll;l Rotterdam -· though this does not mean that ones from other towns did !lot come before it. Probably about an hour-- ora bit more -· into the fire, a few Schenectady Fire Department ve- hicles roared :in onto the scene, no doubt delayed in the frrst place in order to add mystery and more suspense to the event. Now, they finally appeared, when the build-- ing was almost destroyed, .renew- ing waning interest. All this was very titnely and well organized. The sophisticated crowd of people came to watch a worthy family event in a proper venue, and the City for its part seemed to do at least a decent job of making th.e show work out well. It was in truly Republican fash- ion that the eveut was imple- mented. Attendance was free of charge and seems to have been encouraged. The .fire of Sc;henectady seems to have been a brilliant way of transplantin_g Roman values into the present. The concept of fire in an amphitheater-pavking lot-like environment is a modern equiv:a- lent of sword and beast combats of the Rom!ln Colosseum. I am disgusted with myself for having been part of the public to attend the event, as I know some others als<f attended in spite of them- selves. The problem was that the frre fell on a day that was unusu- . ally bare of activities in Schenectady. Some impor-tant cultural methods of entertainment, such as flood riding and tornado- hunting-from-a-safe-distance that have been long established in other · places should be introduced in Schenectady. The deeply rooted·tradition of so-called \'ru:bbemecking\ has be- comealtogether pedestrian for the evolving and advancing popula- tion of the city, It would indeed be nice if we went farther with our leading program ofpopular enter- tainment, and introduced totally new programs that, perhaps, bet- ter utilized our nticlear capabilities. We could, for example, .attempt something like \fusion ovet the Mohawk,\ or \clouds in clear skies.'' We could perhaps initiate joint programs with Russia and the other former Soviet Republiqs. Once a year, for example, we cauld organize a program .called something like \Treasures of the Train,\ which would involve popular train collision spectacles on the Tra))S-Siberian Railroad and on the line serviced nQw by Amtrak-. an activity one guesses Russia is not altogether unfamil- iar w~th and that Amtrak has re- cently been -successful in natural· izing at least a little. The rest of the country ~hou,ld fdllow the ex- amp~<:. Wonderful programs can be pre- !lented to the public based on thy misfortunes ofBa.ikonur and, pos~ sibly, the space center in Florida. Nevertheless, we are not quite cul- turally depleted yet. With the cost · 9f_the fue display for the city be- SUNDAY, OCTOBER 17 7:30 PM DOORS, 8 PM SHOVV il\g high.- the sl~vr~ painful con- &truction ofthe.bailding following by a preferably fast'- paced down- ward spiral towards obsolescence and uselessness, tl1.e electric mal- 1\.mctions, or oth.er- starters pO$Si~ bly, firefighters,. and electrdcity crews- Schenectady should per- haps create yearl-y schedules such as those at the Prvctor~s Theater and the more culturally-inclined venues - such as .. the fues -· al- ternate. Obviously, the public at- tending the arnpl1iiheater-parking lots to see fires a.nd events of a similar nature is rnuch more cul- tured and educate<i, not to mention adaptable. . For now, thdllgll, while the fu- . rure of at least the -fue program is uncertain in Scbe11ectady, Union should lend a ha:no. As part Qf OliT community ini- tiative program, our admissions conunittee shoaJd dedicate s-Qme of its effort to see!dng, finding, and matriculating more high school graduates who have had wotk, volunteer, or aay- kind of experi- ence starting fires throughout the duration ofhigh.school .. But the most important part .. of this cultural pr()cess is ofcou.rse a dedicated body :of people. Resi- dents of Schen:ectady shol.lld be proud to knowt:l!at there are many among them who are prepared to sacrifice some llours of work or even relaxation to enrich them- selves with the \Viewing of benefi- cial and altogetller awesome spec- tacles - not ()-nly useful but be- nign and completely void of d.- aging qualities' - whether phySi- cal or emotionaL UNION COLLEGE iEMORIAL FIE.LDH·_OUSE $18 with UNION COLLEGE ID · Ticket:s: $20 IN ADVANCE & -=:tOOR SALE NOW AT ALL LOCATIONS

Advertisements <U.o:nc11t.lritu£!iis • September 30, 1999 • Page 13 Everyone's going to Union's Career Festival .. ,, .. · '·'·. ·.~· 1999 ·.~~ ~··· TODAY, Thurs., S,ept. 30th 12 noon - 4 pm· Union College Field House For All Students ·.Something for everyone! New recruiters have added! · All Students, Don •t.Miss the Annual ... Career Festival '99! Thursday, September 30th, .12-4 pm Union Field House: Rain or Shine Participatin& Employers Participatint: S~hools Ad...,.ance Testin:g Albany 1V!olecutar Andersen Consulting Ayao Company, L.P. Bechtel (MAO} Boehringer .Ingelheim Pha.rmaceutkals Cambridge Technology PaTtners Cemter for Disabled Central Hudson Gas & Electric Clough, Harbour & Associates De-lmar Publishing Ed-dy Senior Care Enterpt'ise Rent-A-Car Fleet Bank GE Power Systems G~aeral Dynamics- Electric Boat Division Hewitt Associc~.tes IBM Kaplan Educational CenteT Li\\'jng Resources, Inc. LCJckheed Martin/Knolls Atomic Power MacLean Fogg Co. Maximum Management (H\Lman Resources) Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center M():tgan Stanley Dean Witter New York Power Pool Northwestern Mutual Life N£>-valis Corp. NYS AssembJy Intern Coromjttee NYS Bureau of Historic Sites NYS Department of Transportation NYS Division of\ the Budget NYS Energy Research & Development Pfizer PricewaterhouseCoopers . Quad/Graphics Sands Brothers. & Co .• Ltd. Schering Pharmaceuticals State Farm Insurance Sterling Environm~ntal S1iefel Laboratories . Tie Princeton Review Tlloms6n Financial Services Tti-City Compu.ting_Maga:zine Albany College of Pharmacy Albany Law School Alba:tly Medical School American University Public Affairs Program Baylor College of Medicine Benjamin Cardoza School ()fLaw Boston University School of Law Brooklyn CoUege Brooklyn Law School Columbia University Physical Therapy Program Columbia University Teachers College Fordham University Social Services Program Mount Sinai? School of Biological Science New York Chiropractic Col'lege New York Law School New York College of Ost~opathic Medicine :New York College of Podiatric Medicine New York Medical College School of Medical Sciences Pace University Graduate School Pace University School of La.w RPI Computer Info. Systems RPI Language, Literature. and Communication RPI MBA P:.:ogram RPI School of Architecture Sarah Lawrence Smith College Suffolk University Law Sch.ool .SUNY Albany School ofBusiness Syracuse University School of Law The Cqllege of Saint Rose The Sage Colleges Union College Educad.onal Studies Union College OTadua.te Management Institute Univeristy ofConnecticut School <>fLaw .Western New England College of Law Trustee Bank Be Prepared: U.S. Air Force-c. Marines, Navy • Dress neatly,. in I?usiness attire if possible. US Peace C():rps. l ·· -~ William M. Mercer • Bring severa copze,s OJ your r-esume. . . Check/or further updates at: www .. union.edu/career/CDC/UNIONICOE.CF.html .'<' c_-

Page 14. September 3'0, 19()~ Poetry Reading at the Kappa Alpha Literary Society by 1\imberly Rohback A&E Editor Friday nigllt on September 24, the Kappa AJpha Literary Society llosted its first poetry reading of tl!e term. Approximately thirty people found their way to McKean House at 9:30 to enjoy two hours of original and published poetry read by theirpeers. Seth Madis.on created a podium for the presenters consisting of two televisicm sets piled on top of each other crowned with a wooden lectern. Madison tried to concoct an artistic explanation for the sculpture/podium, but it boiled <iown to, \ltl()oked cool I tried to tum on one()f the TVs to give a blank background noise, but it got annoying after a while.\ !he ef- fect was charming. The evening was filled with os- cillations between serious .. think- ing-man\ poems and li:gbt, fun po- ems. Dave Martin was the Emcee of the event. He shared a poem about his cat. It was a tragic yet touching tale of Martin and his cat trapped ancl together in a small room they share. Next was Seth Madison, who shared \virtual po- etry\ off of his laptop. It was a \contest of words.\ Jackie Eates read a poem about being on the subway, which she wrote, and then a poem by another author. Marius Carin shared a variety of poems from his extensive collection. As a rare treat, Charis Moore, better known as Draco, also read one of her poems. Matt Aronowitz read a riotous Dennis Leary piece about Saint Patrick's Day. lan Saratovsky read a poem called \The Pretenders,\ and Becky Moyer sang a song she wrote about Electrical Engineering as she accompanied herself on an instrument that I couldn't find the spelling for. One of the highlights of the evening was Ms. Alkon' s presen- tation. Brooke Alkon gave me an exclusive interview about the two poems, which she read. The first was a poem called \Barcelona Blues\ w'ritten by Union's former poet laureate, Jonathon M. Y arkony '99. She then shared her own poem, entitled \Leaving New York City Blues Modified.\ Alkon describes the beautiful poem as her own thoughts ••about [her] new appreciation for New York City and [her] reluctance to leave it.\ Josie Gluck wanted to share a poem she had written last year; but she was unable to locate a copy ofUnion's literary magazine The Idol from last: year. On a serio\!S note,. I e:xtend my congratulations to aU of those who shared theirworkandtothose who provided the authors.ears to enjoy it. The art of verse permeates the thoughts of many, but often goes unappreciated by anyone but the writer. Poetry readings allow for silent writers to not only share their own work, but to inspire or aid oth- ers that may be new to this cre- ative venue. Poetry readings at Union provide secure and intimate environrrients for such creative exploration. The Kappa Alpha Literary Society hopes to host at least two more poetryreadingsthis term. Lookfor signs, and if you are considering sharing something you have writ- ten, try it. There is nothing to lose, and much to gain. Read. Listen. Reflect. Indulge in the words, and the sounds of poetry. Brooke Alkon/TC Brooke Alkon finds herlnspiration in nature. Antigone Tak~s Over the Yulman by Lori Gree11e A&E Editor It's that time of year again! After an intense aud.ition pro- cess, Direct()r of the Yulman The- ater Bill Frnlay began rehearsals for the Fall ierm production of Sophocles· Antigone. Finlay is particularly excited about the show, which he llas been thinking about and wantlngtodirect for sometime. He calls this the year for Antigone and announced that many theaters all over th<: ~ountry will be present- ing the play this season .. The incredibly talented cast, which includes senior Devin Ciampa in the tide role, senior Alexis Wasserman as her sister Ismene, senior Fiore Leo as King Creon and Ryan Windee W indelspecht as the wise prophet, first assembled one week ago for the initial read through. The cast consists of many theater veterans as well as many fresh newcomers. Finlay spoke to the cast about the play, its place in history and its rel- evance totoday's current society. What he finds patticuH~:rly pro- vocative-about the play is the con- stant battle between state and fam- ily. There is a great deal of debate surrounding the classic play. Is it a feminist play? Is it a male domi- nated play? Certainly, one wel- comes change from many of the past shows put on in theY ulman is the presence of strong female char- acters. This is something many people involved in ·the theater de- partment have been fighting for for quite some time. He also introduced Professor www.fsu.edu Florida State University students perform \Antigone.'' Charl.es Steckler who will be de- signing the set for this show, as he does for all Union shows. Steckler displayed a very early model of what the setmay look like. He will be working mainly with the theater production class and large wooden crates to create the image and the world of Antigone. LindaSalisbury will be costum- ing the show. Her costumes al- ways add the element of reality and truth to the productions. Profes- sor Patricia Culbert will be provid- ing the vocal work for the show. Finlay promises thatthis will not be yout typical Greek tragedy. One unique aspect of the Union ver- sion is the all female chorus. This promises to provide for an inter- estiJtg twist. The script calls for a chorus of gentleman nobles; Finlay chose four women for the part. FiJJlay is bringing back Profes- sor William Lacey, a noted Theater professor from Boston University who has lead Shakespeare work- shops for the theater as well as di- recting Two GentlemenofVerona at tile Yulman in 1998. Lacey will worlc with the chorus on their vert>e. Finlay's background in combat choreography is sure to play a part in this production. He anticipates a great deal of on-stage violence being incorporated in the perfor- mance. Typically, in Greek plays, any violence occurs offstage, but that is not the case at Union! Antigone opens on Thursday, October 28 and runs through Oc- tober 31 and November 4 through. 7. We will be sure to keep you up- dated on the cast, the rehearsal process and the show .. Antigone is destined to be one show you will hate to :tniss!- Senior Chris Welsch, whom you may rememberfrom last term's hit, Jack and Jill, will be sitting be- hind the director's seat this term as the Assistant Director and Stage Manager. Welschsa)'sthat Antigonepromisesto be \a revival piece. It's great to see Un:ion re- turning to the classics.\ In traditional Greek theater, there w<;~s, of course, an absence of elec- tricity. Along this vein, Finlay sees the play taking place amidst flames. Working with some tathet strict fire codes, Finlay envisions candles or torches providing mach of the set. Steckler is. up to the challenge. If you have a,ny interest in pro- viding technical supp<Jrt for the show, come to the Mountebanks meeting today at 5:30 in tile green room of the Yulman Theater. Ma~ jor productions always require a number of people for lighting crews, props, and. sound. Many people who have been handling these theatrical tasks have gradu- ated and the Theater De}}'artrnent is looking for some new \'theater people\ interested in working in front of or behirtd the scenes. ·Mountebanks is a great place to get involved. On the subject ofMmmtebanks, if you are at aU interested in dii:ect- ing a show or performing in a stu- dent production let them know. They have money and they need to spend it on something this term. Followyourcreative ambitions and theatrical dreams. No play is too big or too small for Mountebanks\ Good luck to all of those partici- pating in Antigone this tetm. It promises to be an ad\enture into ancient Greece we will not soon !Orget.

) 1 Arts & Entertainment CUmuarhiensi~ • September 30, 1999 • Page 15 O'Do.nneH Brings Strength and Purpose to Music , by Lori Greene A&EEditor As ifsitting at the Clul:>Expo sev- eral weeks ago, meeting all the en- thusiastic fresl:m'l.en, soon-to-be- Concordy-.writers wa.sn 't thrilling enou.gh for one day, Brendan O'Donnell and his rnusjc made it even more eX:citing! I was just .sit- ting there tnindin'g my l;msiness, convincing anyone who would lis- ten why they should write for the Concotdy, when 1 noticed a taU, good~looking guy. He llad an air about him that made me realize he could ~ot be a Union student. In fact, I was right. His name is Brendan 0 'Do1111ell and he is the hottest up and corning singer/ songwriter~obitupstate New York. He approached me about possi- bly playing on campus\ and as the former chairperson of Chet's ,com- mittee, I will speak with tb.e current committee and see to it that he ap- pears soon! cent Arts festivals· aero~$ the re- gi()n. He i~ now rnaldng bi:srounds on tile <:ollege scene trying to pro,.. rnote Iris album, entitled First. The CD, which he so genemusly of- feted me in exchange for this ar- ticle~ is an eclectic mix ofpowerful songs, all written by o·vonneU hil;nself. Hive Music Co. says of O'Donliell, \He. embodies a pas- siOil f<lr life-entlrusiastic,. outgo- ing, literally bmsting into song. The martgement of original mu- sic on his :frrst full-length debut reclltding is jangly and :hard-driv- ing without ever being abrasive and yet the power that be brings fo:rlb; sometimesrestrained, some~ times l¢t loose is Like a youthful Neil Y<lung just starting to cut tUlles.\ Baby,'' \Fight This World,\ \This Life,,. \Goodbye \21st Century Wave\ and \Break.\ These songs incorporate lyrics that are poetic and universally j'elevant. He re- marks that audience members frea quentlycommenton hew personal his songs feltto them and how they were able tiQ c()nnect so easily to the lyrics. His lyrics are strong and have the ability to,comfort us, save us or condemn us. It is tha,t strength and pas~ion that makes O'Donnell's music so unique and special A copy .of his cd is available . through the internet at www.beehivepro.com/odonnell. Any questions •can be. directed tojeff@beehivepro.com.lfyou are interested in 'Seeing O'Donnell on ~amp1:1s, gototb.e concertcomm.it- tee orChet's committee meetings! Recently, he has been playing all over in clubs, cafes and bars in the Northeast, in Providence, Boston, Albany, New York City, Ports- mouth, NH and Saratoga Springs, He has alsu petfo:rmed .at many re- 0 1 Donnell is self- described as- al11ix ofDave Matthews, .REMand Pau:lSimon. His Wrlting.is heavily in11uenced by H?ITY(.'hapin. \l be- came obsessed with his music. It wasa.blend of very large themes and powerful o1chest:l:~tions. It was through his music that I ftrst realized the power of tb.e written word.\ Using Chapin and other m- fhtellCes, O:Dolll1ell writes songs entitled \These Moments,\ \Cry If you thought this article was pathetic and think you could do better, we're looking for music re- views! Come 1o Concordy meet- ings on Thqrsdays at 7:0() PM and talk to us!' Or, submit articles, 500 wordnlinimumto Kim er Lori. in the Concordy <Jffice'<lli the third floor of the College Center by Sundiiy at lOAM. Courtesy of Hive Music 0 'Donnell looks forward- toplaying the Union scene soon. The Gardening of Women Love of the Game .. . · · · ·· The only prop in the show was call, each oftb,e performers bowed byKimber'lyR«lbback tbewo<ldenframeofamirror. The along side a photograph of them- A&£ Editor cast spent a lot of focus staring at · selves as a child. On Thursday,.September 23 I at- themselves in th.e empty space so The c>nly male actor in the play, tended a play called T-he Garden- tile audie11ce could see each char- Glenn Rea~ played a range of parts inJr of Women .. This one..:act piece a.cter stare at their bodies, or tzy which stretched from the egotisti~ was written and directed by Tracy on c1o1:hes. In lletween each of cal workout machine to a country Heller. Heller is a social worker who the skits, images were flashed bumpkin. The play did not address handles a nurhher of cases for the U)Xlothescreen. The tb.eme thatl eating .d:is:o..rders as a probkm for Union Col:legeBig Brothers/Big Sis- ft'1und most powerful was the fo- men butratheras a problem caused tersprograrn. As I am disappointed cu.son children Heller began the largely by men. While this may in the Times Utrion 's reluctance t<l show with images oflittle girls of have been one-sided, the point was cover the play. it will be reviewed all different sizes, colors, and clear: body image is a problem most here. sh~pes. They were all })laying and prevalent among females and men The Gardening of Women was laugbing. A scene would then be- do :not help. produced t() raise money for the gin, prefaced b:y the great equal- The sket.ches were simple and Capital Region Association for Eat- izer that is childb:ood. The juxta.- easy to follow~ The audience was ingDisorders. Itwasperformedin JlDSiti<lnofequalityinself-esteem takeE. on a ride through laughter asmallintimatetheaterat.TheHilton ~tb.youthtotheinequ!llity in self- over the obsession and fear of a ·Art Center in Albany. The audience esteem that occurs with age was scale .• to the horror ofbeing alone was seated at small mund tables '}Jowerful. and trying on clothes on a Friday adorned with candles; and awaited The idea that yQung women are night. The play achieved its. pur- the performance. The actors 1lle :products ofour society to the pose. CRAED was mentioned in worked on a srnall black stage with same extent that flowers are t)le the program as a supporter of this a small screen and slide projector products of their soil was an inter- typeofwork. CRAED is a not-for- set on stage right. The cast was esting one. Heller's focus on chil· profit org~ation.made up of pro- comprised of amateur actors who dren made this theme stand out. fessionals, recovering individuals, played a variety of roles in these- II~rplay warns ofth~ dangers of parents and others concerned ries of small sketches. negative body image~ the chaos about eating disorders. Talk to a The GardeningofWomen set out tha1 Barbie dolls ancl television counselorformore infonttation. to make a statement. It did so in a introduce into marriages, and di- Congratulations to the cast and by Kristina Dorne Staff Writer I didsomethingdifferentlastFri- day night. Instead of going to a fraternity party I decided to go to movies with a few friends. We saw For Love of the Game with Kevin Costner. A good time was bad by all This \chick flick'' has something for everybody. For the ladies there is romance and Kevin Costner. Need I say more? Guys will like this movie because they earn see baseball and there is quite a bit of that in this movie. For Love of the Game is Cos mer's tllird baseball movie . His first two movies were Field of Dreams and Bull Durham. Beth movies were very popular when they were fust released anc:l are collSidered to be classic Costner ten years later. I have never seen Bull Durham so I cannot comment on it Field of Dreams is a great movie that is one of my all-timE! fa- vorites. There ~e certain lines from that movie that stick. Lines such as: comedic fashion, taking \a humor- vorces. crew of The Gardening of Women \Is this Heaven?' ' ous look at how society, the media, Some of the funnier skits took and especiaHy to Tracy Heller. It \No It's Iowa.'' the advertising and weight loss in- fJlace in a weight-loss boot camp, was an entertaining piece with an That is only one of the many dustries play a predominate role in a. clinic, and in the home. The play important message. It is particu- classic lines from that movie. Af- fostering n.egative body image in was directed at women of all ages, larly nice to see theater being used ter seeing For Love of the Game I women.\ The play hegins with a as was reflected in the cast, which as a means of :informing the public .· can say that it is not quite in the theme that rings ibroughout: look- included players from age twelve of a dangewus plague in our soci- same league as Field of Dreams, ing in the :mirror. · to thiddle age. During the curtain ety. but that it is still a home ruru. In this movie, Costner ?'lays a career pitcher for the Ya:nkees whose career has seen better days. He was a superstar in his time but injury has stalled his career. His ftve year relationship with his long- su:ffering ladylove Kelly Preston bas just ended. Both Co~tner's Cilreer and his life have seenbetter days. Then the baseball game :against the Tigers begins. Costner is on in a way that he has not been in a while. The strikes andthe oats just keep on coming. It is clear that Destiny is on his side. I will be honest and say that it is apparent how this is going to end from about five minutes into the movie. The good thing about For Love of the Game is that one enjoys the movie in spite ofthe fact that there really is not very much suspense. What really makes the movie is how cleverly Costner's flashbacks to the past :five years ·coincide with the game. He will remember in great detail an injury or a fight with his .girlfriend. Then he will throw a strikeout. The way that this is d<lne makes for the perfect combination of baseball and romance. The men will appreciate Costner's perfect game in the making and the women will appreciate the remorse that he feels for his failed relationship with Preston. The men will also appre- ciate that Costner does all of his own pitching. There are a lot of good movies that are out in the theater. What sets For Love of the Game are the little moments that occur between Costner and Preston. The best or most memorable in the movie has to be the scene that occurs be- tween them in a restaurant. Preston is stating her doubts about getting involved with a baseball player. She keeps on saying that she does not want to be a groupie. He finally stops her mid-sentence and says, \How do you like to be kissed'?'' This line is the clincher. [t wins over Preston and the viewer. All of our d<lubt and apprehension that we had been feeling <~.bout Costner instantly disappear. The Costner charm never fails to win over the ladies. The best thing about Kevin Costner as an actor and director is that he really knows how to tell a story. 1 found myself drawn into this story the minute that the screen lit up. This movie is a story into which you can easily be drawn. Anybody can enjoy this movie. It is the perfect chick flick with enough baseball mixed in to please the guy y<lu drag along with you! .y ·\\

·. I Page·16 • September 30, 1999 • Peacekeepers Invade Eas·t Timor by Fllilip Cho StiJ.tf Writer On TuesdZ~y tn<>ming of Septem- ber 21, 1999 an Australian cata- maran troop ,carrier came into Dili's harb<lr, bringing another wave of troops and equipment to boost international peacekeeping forces taking C()nttol of the terri· tory. Refugees welcomed these troops, who enc<>untered no resis- tance from pro-Indonesian mili- tias, having n.1rrently created vio- lence all througllout the territory. A wave of Australian transport planes airlifted soldiers, ammuni- tion, explosives and supplies to East Timor. Warshipssta.tiGned offthe coast were unloading heavy equipment. The first tro<Jps -of the multina- tional force arrived in East Timor on Monday, ending Indonesia's control oftheterritory for the first time. After securing the airport and harbor, tll.e troops began pa- trolling the streets of the city, where violence had first erupted in East Timor. As the presence of an interna- tional peacekeeping force in East Timor grew~ so did the hopes of pro-independence East Timorese after weeks of terror and violence. However, it still remains prevelant that the multinanonal force is still below its fin~ll strength of 7,500 and has not yet fanned out through Dili. Until it d.oes. security is only an illusion and the potential for violence stillex.ists. On Septernbet 22, 1999 Austra- lian peaceke~ers raided the Dili headquarters of one of East Timor's str<ln~est pro-Indonesia militias Wedhe:Sday, and arrested six men andc:m::tfiscated a number of documents. !he building was .a headquarters f()r the Aitarak mili- tia, and was empty when peace- keepers arrived. But later on, six army militiamen arrived and were subsequently arrested. On Thursday, September 24, 1999 Indonesia lifted martial law in East Timor, saying it was hand- ing over responsibility to the mul- tinational force there. But, inter- na tiona'! peacekeepers did face gunfire and threats from pro- Jakarta militias who where depa:rt- ing. The peacekeeping troops moved on Thursday to try to speeduptheir deployment to East 'Timor. Four shooting incidents involving mili- tias and Indonesian military forces mission. Peacekeepers also seized weapons when they were arrested. On Monday, September 27, 1999 international peacekeepers officially took control of East Timor. Australian troops in East Timor s€cured what remained of the East Timorese capital, Dili. Anti-independence guerillas and the departing Indonesian troops razed most of the buildings in the capitaL United Nations personnel be- lieve that three quarters of East Timor's buildings have been de- stroyed. UN aerial survey of re, mote areas in East Timor have ripping East Timor apart. I just wonder how many people have died, and will die in the preceding week I wonder what th~·pdce of freedom will he for the East Timorese. I have a feeling thatthe price will be heavy. As it has been for the occupants ofKosovo and Rwanda. I wonder if a country can really recover af- ter all this violt;:nce. It is scary to see that at these times, when things are supposed to be in peace, small skirmishes ~uch as these e:rupt. It seems countries are no longer afraid to cause war and fight. They may be afraid to fight e.ach other, On Thursday, September 24, 1999 Indonesia lifted .· ,martial law_ in East Timor, saying it was handing over • responsibility to the multinationalforce ~here. But, international peacekeepers did face gunfire and threats ifrom pro-Jakarta militias -who where df!PCft~~\!!:F?~ · _ ,, ··-~ -., have been reported in Dili so far. lt remains uncertain whether the shootings were directed at peace- keepers. However, it does appear that in one case Australian troops in their living quarters came un- d.er direct fire from militia mem- bers. On Friday, September 25, 1999 backed by helicopters and annored trucks, an Australian-led peace- keeping force sealed off several city blocks in the East Timorese capital of Dili. They moved h.ouse-to-house to flush out mem- bers of feared pm,Indonesian mi- litias. The force detained several '\hard-core militia\ members and seized weapons in a show of fire- power aimed at building public confidence inthe U.N.-sanctioned found mass destruction. This confirmed humanitarian missions fears about the aftermath of the militia group's campaign to keep East Timor in Indonesia's power. On Monday, the intema- tional...,peacekeepers also swept into the East Timor town of Liquica to take control of a third town in East Timor. In a raid, about 150 troops dropped from helicopters into the coastal town, while armored persomtel carriers sealedofftheroads. About30mi- litiamen were seen fleeijlg into the .hills. Having looked at the events that took place in East Timor in the past week, it seems thatthepeace- keeping troops have finally got, ten into gear and done- something about the violence that has been but people are not afraid of what they call ethinic cleansing or war- ring to get away from the power ofanothet country. I think the end ofcommunism in the international world has started this. But what is also amazing is the willingness of other countries to send in peacekeeping tro0ps. I believe as the world turns today, people are coming to realize that getting involved to attain peace is a goal that everyone should follow. War, even in a ·small country, can cause strife and hurt the economy_ Maybe that's why countries are getting involved. As time goes by, I think countries are afraidtoflght under their \own\ flag, but feel mote comfortable fighting under the United Nations flag on a mis- sion of peace. May-be it looks better. But, in- variably, countries do not see war .as an advanlag() as was done in the past. The international world is becoming one· big community. I think as the century turns, many people are realizing this .. 1, for one, can, living abicultural lifestyle he:re in the states. As pressure for peace rnaunts, and tyrants like Saddam Hussein, as well as terrorism spread in our international society; it becomes more urgent to make peace the default mode <Jf the world .. War causes uncertainty,. and the society oftoday seems to fear that, yet have an utter fascination with it. As an American, I also think it is hard for us to understand what it is like to have to live under such conditions as East Timor is in now. The fear .of not knowing if you will live another day, questioning if your family will survive, asking yourself where your children or brothers and sisters are, standing by and watching as loved ones are tortured and killed. Remember that currently, East Timor is. not the only country in the world where injustice is being committed. Look to what is going on in some countries in Africa. It is brutal even there. People are getting their hands cut off just for being in the wrong place, or being a certain profession. The world seems like a good peaceful place from where we stand. But in truth, the rest of the world ,is still just trying to survive. Some are battling in wars, others are battling hunger. Some are bat- tling disease. Whatever the case, we as tnem- bers of the _international commu- nity need to be more aware of what is going on, and lend a hand when possible. When problem arise, it is our responsibility to fmd a solu- tion. First Ladjr of the Soviet Union Dies at Age 67 byDave Gruner StajfWriter French fa~hion designer Pierre Cardin described her as \one of the most elegant women in the world.\ She was C()t:npared to legendary women like Jacqueline Kennedy, Eleanor Roosevelt, and even Em- press Josephin,e wife ofNapoleon Bonaparte. Raisa G<lrbachev, a most cel- ebrated wotnan in her own right, died Monday, September 20. She was 67. Hospitalized since July in Muenster, Gennany, the wife of the forme-r le-ader of the Soviet Union, Mikllail Gorbachev, was suffering from leukemia. Her courage in her fi.ght for survival was inspiritt,g, if not unprecented. Last Th11rsday, September 23, she was buried in Moscow's elite Novodevichycemetery. An incon- solable Mili.hail and daughter, ,., Irina, stood heart broken, watch- ing the woman who was instru- mental in ending the Cold War laid to rest. The burial followed reli- gious and civil ceremonies that were attended by prominent lead- ers such as Gennan Chancellor Helmut Kohl, President Boris Y eltsin' s wife, Nania, Belarussian since that infamous slow dance; a most fulfilling relationship. As Mikhail wiped the. tears from his eyes, common citizens rattled the cemetery gates, chanting, ''let us in ... we want to say goodbye.\ Raisa Gorbachev had always reached out to the people, chang, ing the image of the Kremlin's Hospitalized since July, in ·Muenster, Germany, the wife oftheforrize-h leadef . of the Soviet Union, Mikhi;iil' (ff)fbd~hc~;\ was sufferingfrom leukem_ia ... -. · . ::, ,\ ~· · •• ~ • .. '· ,l ,. ,! .. -~~-·' ' ~.-· •. ;.~ 2 ,. President Alexander Luk;asheQko, and former Russian prime minis- ters Yevgeny Primakov and Sergei Stepashin. Mikhail and Raisa Gorbachev met in college on a ballroom dance floor. After the first dance, they were \joined\ and never looked back. It has been over forty years :. leadership during the l980'.s. The peoples' passionate voices were their way of returning the human- ity. Mrs. Gorbachev was neither without controversy; nor flair. During her husband's reign, she was seen as a western-style first lady. At a time when tens-ion and instability ruled, the Cold War, Mrs. Gotbachev traveled with her husband, wore designer clothes and shopped with a credit card. Some viewed these actions as unjustifiable, lashing crude accu- sations in response. Yet, Raisa continued to lead her life as she pleased, wanting the people of the Soviet Union to accept change, accept difference. She preached the principle of equality-a principle the Soviet Union was not familiar with at the time . In 1991, Mikhail and Raisa Gorbachev left office after the col- lapse of the Soviet Union. Sl:le would not be in the public eye un- til her husband's disastrous reelec- tion campaign in 1996. She spent the remainder ofher life in privacy,. living a life she wasunable to live while her husband was leading a confused and stricken nation. Her disease caught people by surprise. She, more than any other, was in awe as to the reasons for this turbulence. She would not quit, thoagh, she would not let her anxiety and eye-wrenching pain get the best of her and for this she is remembered. It was another rea- son to admire her integrity, her passion, and most of all, her cour- age. As the world mourns Raisa Gorbachev, looking for words to best describe the emotions, fonner President Ronald Reagan and his wife, Nalley, remarked they were \shocked and deeply saddened\ The former President and his wife, who worked with Raisa and her husband~ Mikhail, to create a less strenuous world,. know all too well a boat the struggles of ~sur­ vival. President Reagan has been diagnosed with Alzheimer's and has deeply depreciated in health· over the past few months. Should he perish before the end of the century, he will join Raisa as one of the two greatest figures of the Twentieth Century. Both shaped the world- either east or west- oftoday.

i l ) l i ~· d a s h If WorJd·News a!rotenrbiensia .. September 30, 1999 · Page 17 McCain Announces Bid ·for White House ()ffici~tstattJment asks the public to join in the \new patriotic challenge\ of reforming nation's political system by Steve Nemeth Staff Writ~r Ari~oua Senator J cbn Me Cam, an active Repub Iican ~candidate for the presidency, formally an-·· nounced the start of his campaign for the Republican nomination Monday. McOtin made official his candidacy by asking.all Ameri- cans toj oin him in the \new patri- otic ehallenge\ of refonning the nation's political system. ~'It is because I owe America more than she has ever owed me that I arrt.a candidate f()r President of the United States,\ he told a crowd of 500 people. During the speech, McCain also made clear that the mainstays ofb:is campaign and potentia'} p:resideacy would be the improvement of t\le nation's defense and campaign fmance re- form. McCain said that beth is,. sues are. an example of how he wants Americans to champion a \cause greater than self-interest\ \When our goverrunent ha!l been taken from us by the special inter- ests, the bid-dollar donors, pride is lost to shame,\ he said. '\When our politics is corrupted b:y money and lies, trust is lost to,cynicism.\ McCain, over the course of his political career, has become a lead- ing proponent ofcampaign fmance refo~ going agains.t the Repub- lican Party's stance on the issue and making it a central theme in his campaign. \If we are to meet the challenges of our tinle, we must take the cor- rup?ng influence of special inter- est money out ofpolitics,\ he said. \Restoring honesty to our politi- cal systems is the gateway through which all other policy reforms mwst pass.\ McCain also proposed more policy reforms in the course of his spe.ech than just changes in cam- paign finance reform. He called for the protection of Social Secu- taxes and spending. He proposed using the remaining government surplus to cut taxes and pay for it by closing loopholes in the tax code. He .also called for eliminat- ing the tax penalty applied to mar- ried couples, slashing the inherit- ance tax, ending the earnings pen- alty for senior citizens and increas- ing the number of Ameri<;ans who qualify fo1 the 15 percent tax rate. \I will cut taxes, not for the spe- ,on unneeded weapons systcerns and other pork projects wfuile 12;000 enlisted personnel- proud young men and women - subsist on food stamps. That's a <lis- grace,,. he said. McCain started his announce- ment day by vishing the Naval Academy in Annapolis. As a stu- dentMcCain barely graduated and desqibed himself as a trouble- maker. After the visit he traveled ,,.,ll,·i~,fbe\iiuse /-owe America more than she has ,'1Jlt!iili?;,¢, · .. ··,· .. f1·.thatt/be maznsiays ojh1s campazgn ·;~1JJJ!)l~Jj~~~if¢~fi~bj{~~~~d /J({ 'the.•irflprove- •.::,£·'iti~~Jl/1~{~dti'eit~~~d<imseqnd campaign . · '· ~ ~l;L ·:,,:t;·; '~; ~-· ~ fti#~:#~ reform. \ · ·. · . · · rity, tax reductions, vetoes of pork barrel spending, a nationwide test of educational vouchers, and teacher pay based ott merit. \If elected president, I will not allow your Social Security money to be used for any purpose except Social Security; no ifs, ands or ex- cuses,~ he said. B:e also elaborated his plans for cial interests and the big-dollar donors,. but for the working men and women of this country,\ he said. , He said President Bill Clinton had weakened the .country's de- fense readiness but also said Con- gress' spending habits also were to blame. \Both parties in Congress have wasted scare defense dollars to New Hampshire to conceiJ.trate on campaigning there. Part of his unorthodox strategy is to ski:p 1he Iowa caucuses and focus on New Hampshire and South Carolina. New Hampshire has a large J;Itl!!l- ber of independent-minded V\oters that may be swa.yed from the Rush camp and South Carolina ilias a large veteran population. \I don't think the primary here is over,\ said Steve Duprey, the New Hampshire GOP chairman. McCain also drew a contrast be- tween himself and front-runner George W. Bush in the field offor- eignpolicy. Bush served stateside during the Vietnam War with the Texas Air National Guard while McCain flew combat missions and spent 5 years in a North Vietnam- ese prisoner of war camp, Bush has made no secret of his need to learn more about foreign policy and his need for adv.isor:s on the subject.McCain said that when the time comes to send US tr()(>ps into harm's way, that the de.cisions must be made by a lead'tr \who knows that such decisi()ns have profound consequences.\ \There comes a time when our nation's leader can no lornger rely on briefing books and talking points, when the experts and the advisers have all weig!hed in, when the sum totat.of one's life becomes the foundation from which he or she makes the decis.ions that de- termine the future ofour democ- racy,\ McCain said. McCain also said that no matter how many people are involved in foreign policy decisio11s, -the presi- dent is \alone in a dark roo0m when the ·Casualty lists come i11. I'm not afraid of that burden. I krnow both the blessing and price of freedom.\ McCain's strong 'beliefs make him an attractive, _conservative . candidate. Former Vice President Dumps Campaign Dan· Quayle is the Most Recent of many Republican candidates to fall from the race of 2000 by Neil Routman World News Editor On Monday, September 27, former vice-president Dan Quayle announced his withdrawal from the Republican presidential race. The statement was no surprise to the public; Quayle has aroused little interest and minimal support in a sea of Republican peers. With George W. Bush off to a tremen- dous start and a number of strong runner-up candidates~ Quayle had no specific issue to push and :no specifically targeted demographic. Quayle tried to appeal to tne consetvative, right-wing repub- licans were morally fed up with the degree of respect the White House has lost in the Clinton Administration. Quayle is a true conservative, reft:i:;ing to yield on such issues as gun control or for- eign aid like candidates Bush or Do}e. With Patrick Buchanan's imminent jump to the reform party, Quayle sto<>d alone as a hard-liner conservative. How- ever, to win the ()ffice of the presidency, one must act as a political moder.ate, avoiding clashes with Congress and troubles with the public's ap- proval. · The former vice-president placed a positive spin on the an- nouncement. He stated, \Today our c11mpaign is really in a rather unique position because the most recent, national poll- the CNN/ Time (magazine) poll-· shows us in second place, fmally beginning to emerge as the clear alternative to the front-runner.\ However, 'Mr. Quayle is not the clear second place runner up: most polls conclude that Bush has a huge plurality, followed by mild support for Senator John McCain, followed by the group consisting of Elizabeth Dole, Pat Buchanan, Alan Keyes, Steve Forbes, Gary Bauer, Orrin Hatch and Dan Quayle. Mr. Quayle cominented, \The front-runner, apparently, will have up to $100 million to Sp€?nd in the . Republican primaries.\ Juxtapose this treasury with the fact that Quayle was not able to raise $3 million. The Quayle campaign; which once touted absolute victory, tid- ding the White House of the Democrats, now comments, \As I said when I announced my deci- · sion, there is a time to stay and a time to fold; a time to know when to leave the stage.'' Quayle promised that this is not the last ofCandidate Quayle. \This is the end of a campaign, not a cause. I am going to stay in the arena. As John Adams said, our obligations to our c01mtry cease only with our lives. I am still young, fortunate to have plenty of stamina and good health, and blessed with a loving family and friends across America. I called my latest bock Worth Fighting For because our values, ourideals, our country are worth fighting for. That's exactly what I'm going to · do. The factor of money is an eter- nal debate in the field of politics. Texas Gevemor George W. Bush will choose not to accept federal matching funds for his campaign. He will amass approximately $6() million throughout the end of. the mQtHh. Steve Forbes will also choose not to accept federal funds, which limit spending and provides guidelines. With only a limited amount of funds to be dispersed thrQughout the Republican cancli- dates, Quayle is one ofthe firstof many lesser candidates to dto]> out for lack of fiscal resources. Furthermore, in an attempt to credit himself with only p()si1i:ve contributions, George W. Bush has posted his contributors ()D his official web page at www.georgewbush.com. The fact that campaign c:ontri- butions have been such a large factor in many recent elections has raised questions as to whyba:s this notbeen a problem in the p;ast and how can we ameliorate the >CU!Tent situation through reform. In the oldparty system o:fnomi~ nating candidates~ candidates ()f- ten were not directly resp,onsible forraising funds. The party would pay for any expenses incurred in return for absolute party }()yalty. Sixty years ago, the party lines were clearly defined arnd segre- gated. The Democrats stood for a certain platform; Rept!bl:icans, the other. Today, in a political circus of the individual candidate, party lines and loyalties are often blurred. The candidate is responsible for raising his/her own c.ampaign funds; only after theybave secured the pr~ary will the party directly endorse the candidate(orhe forced to support the candidate:). In order to fix the problems of today, the public must constantly press the governme.nt for reforms such as spending limits or regu- lated television airtime (without infringing upon the candidate's flrst amendment rights). Politi- cians are only susceptible to this suggestion when running for the ftrst time against all iDcumbent. After elected; due to a JtUmber of advantages like the fnmking privi- • lege,. politicians tend t().shy away from topics that can be damaging to his/her own security. Dan Quayle failed in his cam- paign because the party that he so vigorously defends did not support him. Quayle managed :still to raise a fair amount ofrnoney, however, the Bush money train cOontinues to speed towards the Wllite House with little to no Republican com- petition.

' I . ' ..... .' -~ Page 18 • September 30, 1999 • <II.om:nrmeusis· Science & technology Science & Technology You Better VVatch VVhat You Eat by Steve Ayers StaffWriter After two relatives suffered from foCld poisoning this summer, I am much more wary about eating out In light of the E. Coli epidemic occurring this summer at the Wash- ington County Fair, whichinfected 1,0{) 1 andleft65hospitalized, it may make sense for others to be cau- tious as well. Though it seems shocking, food poisoning remains a serious threat even in these mod- emtimes. In fact, the dsk of infection can be .expected to rise in the future with the emergence of new drug- resistant pathogens. Even though food poisoning in the United States is lower than most other countries, · there is still a very serious threat. Acc-ording the FDA, 76 million pe()ple are treated for some kind of food poisoning every year, and 5 ;0()0 die from it. This is not one of the more life threatening risks fac- ing :us. however it makes sense to be careful and make sure food prod- ucts are thoroughly washed and/ or C()Oked prior to consumption. The sources of such poisoning are varied. Earlier this month, ~h-e FDA published a warning against uncooked sprouts, stating th!tt they may contain Salmonella orE. Coli bacteria. One of the most prominent pathogens that often goes un- mentioned is Campilobacter, which causes up to four million infectiotts per year. The emer- gence of drug resistant patho- gens provides an even stronger motivati<m to be careful. Diseases that are exposed tor antibiotics for extended peri- ods of time de- velop immunities to them, making the bacteria even more diffic11lt to treat. More powerful antibiotics mu.st be used, and if a treatment that works cannot be found in tim~, these diseases can escalate to a life-threatening condition. One known cause of the development of this situation is the regular feed. La~t year, approximately sixteen million pounds of an- tibiotics were used on livestock. Agsravating the problem are modern farming methods, in which large groups of animals are kept in relatively close quarters with- little to no cleaning. These conditions serve as an ideal breeding ground for bacteria, allowing new diseases to spread rapidly throughout livestock populations. These diseases can be spread to humans through improperly cooked meat, creating epidemics which are hard to treat. soml.utnaryland.eclu Currently, regula- tions on antibiotic use on livestock are mini- use of antibiotics on farm animals. The use of medication on animals is. largely unrestricted and many farms include antibiotics as an additive in their animal mal. In March, the FDA passed its first reglllation on this subject, compelling farmers to have all drugs monitored for resistance when they are used on animals. How- ever, the use of antibiotics on live- stock is not restricted. In contrast! The Eu.ropea:n Union has bai:med the use of any antibiotic in animal feed, Every year, phannaceufical com- panies invest large sums of money . and resources in developing new antibiotics, which have the poten- tial of fighting ~g resistant in- fectittns. When they are then used on liv·estock in conditions espe- cially saited to breeding resistance. it will !lot take long for these ~ew drugs to be rendered useless. If. this; coatinues, our current arsenal of anll.\biQtics will soon be outdated and outnu;rtloeted in comparison to these diseases. Mo<lemsocietyhas provided us with many useful conveniences and &~:creased the amount of food poisoning until it is actually a rare exent. We are already at a disad- vantage because this is a battle against nature. If we are to keep the qpper hand, we should at least make some effort to stop the prac- tices of mass farming from under- mining our efforts. In the mean- time; we can stay safe by avoiding uncooked food and lemenade stands. TJJ_e Making o£ a Clearer Ima:~ge Fast Ready - by Alex Militello Staff Writer A. few weeks ago, the Union Coll~ge community had an oppQrtunity to discover how the ima:ge ofa star several light years away can be seen with the greatest resolution possible. Professor Elliot Horch from The Rochester Institlite ofTechnology described, in layman's terms, how we can in fact receive dear pictures of interstellar objects even as the light coming from them is muddied and distorted by the components within our thick atmosphere. The extent of the usefulness of this imaging pmcess, however, is limited only tCl very close objects. In addition, · only a maximum of two stars call be viewed at one time. This relatively new process I am talking about is called Speckle Interferometry. The term speckle interferometry is nothing more than a fancy way of describing a process in which astronomers take very high sp:eec;l · pictures of twinkling stars ~md combine the numerous twinkling pictures into a mass of ima!JeS. This mass of images is then fed into a complex computer sys1em that, thn;mgh a complicated pro- cess of \de-convolving\ or '\cie- convoluting,\ spits out a fmal im- age. This. final image is the way we would see this star if our atmo- sphere did not distort it. The JlfO- cess itself is actually quite a: bit more complicated than this sinnple description, but the general JlUr- pose of this technique is to focus on the particular image. This is \Very similar t() the way a pair ofbinocu- , lars is focused on ·a distant im~ge, except that in this case t:he blurriness of the image is caus.ed by .something between you andthe object you are viewing. With the telescope or b:inoculars, all that is required is to adjust the instrument itself. This recently devised tecbnictue has become a favorite among astronomers who specialize in th.e study of local and easily seen double stars. Many aspects ofthese so-called double stars can be determined through the use of this very process, such as their distance from the earth, as well as their respective masses and · weights·. The masses of such objects in space are usuallY, : undetenn.inable just by looking ·. at them. The fact that such · objects appear to be orbiting · other massive bodies, such as an- . other star, clues physicists in to measurements which can be made about its gravitational · pull, density, and eventually its · mass. The clarity astronomers achieve ' through the use of the speckle • . interferometry teclmique is truly re- . markable. The ability to·· see. such objects clearly, without the distortion caused by our own· . atmosphere will most like~y remain useful for as long as op- tical telescopes lay below the hin- dering effects of our Earth's a~o- . sphere. Easy Dut~h Catch F ;R~E. D. for all your snacking needs before he heads south for the winter. Coffee, yogurt, sandwiches, soda, and cook.ies are avaUable. Use cash or declining balance, before it is too late!

t, n Page 19 Statesmen Ship Sinks Defense and Special Teams Combineforall20 Points in Victory Over Hobart by David C. Bro._ks Editor-in-Chief The Fighting Dutchmen left Geneva on Saturday witharemark- able 20-14 victory over H()bart Col- lege. However 1 the offense was again unable to score a to1Ichdown, extending their drought to nine ([Uarters. \We moved the ball bet- ter,\ said senior captain Brian ()'Donnell, \but we were,unable to _ score in the red zone.\ The Statesmen s.tarted the scor- ing by returning a blockedpunt for l7 yards and the score, only two <~nd half minutes into the game. However, sophomore Mike Rosenthal retmned the favor five minutes later. Senior Mike Thomp- :Son sacked quarterba.ck Dan Birdsall, which led to th-e fumble that Rosenthal recovered and ran 53 yards for-the touchdown. The extra point, however, was no good. Normallong·snapper Greg; Williams did notmake the trip due to medi- cal problems andE.C.Stumpf, the other long snapp~r. was not avail- able to long snap becuase of sore ribs. That left the duty to a fresh- men. The loss of Williams proved to be crucial throughoutt\te game. Along with the loss ofWilliams, the Dutchmen were with()ut sopho- more Jonah Adelmen, senior Idris A:bdul·Aziz, sopli:om()re Steve Morat, and junior James Grlffin. Said head coach John Audino, \It was a big loss to n.ot have Greg. We were missing 25% of our start· ers ... ' ·- With 8;251eft in the second quar- ter, Union's defense a,gain cam~ up big. This time 1 sophom,o1e George Kandirakis- intercepted a Bir-dsall pass and ran 30 yards for the touch- down. The two-point cenv-ersion failed, and Union led, 12-7. . On the fifth play of the second half, Hobart's tailback Rob Crissfulli ran for a loss of33-yards and fumbled iii the endz()ne which was recovered by Josh Steinhonr. Junior BryanSlekes then. convened to classmate Dan Bamford for the two-point conversion, giving the Dutchmen a 20-7·Iead. With seven andhalf minutes left in the game, Birdsall was sacked and again fumbled. The ball was recovere4 by sophomoreAnthony Linter. Theooffense, which had yet to score, took over on Hobart's 16- yardline. Afterthes:ix,th,play, Union found themselves on the one-yard line with a fourth down. \If we had gone for the touchdown and missed it, tltey would have had to go 99 yards for a score, and an ex- tra point would have given them lead. A field goal would have made it a nine poillt game, and thus two positions. It was the right call,\ said Audin(}. After taking a delay of game penalty, Ruffo attempted a Z3-yard field goal, which was no good. The Stat~smen took over on their own 20- yard line, needing to go 80-yards for the touchdown. However, o-n the sixth play of the drive, _seni()r captain Joe Attansio intercepted liis second pass of the game (fifth in three games) to se,. cure the win for Union. \[Attansio] is playing with a lot of confidence. He has played~xceptionally,\ com- mentedAudino. ~·our defense has played grea;t. They saved us from being l-2 this weekend. Instead we came o1:1t 2-1.\ Audino com- mented that this defense reminds him of the defense in 1993 and 1995 as well .as the Stagg Bowl Year of 1989. Despite the lack of offense, there has been no fmger pointing. The offense as a whole . has struggled this seaso11. Plays have broken doWn; and the entire offense has not been able to handle the blitz. The offensive line will have Will- iams back on Saturday and wiUalso see the second game of Pat Fortin at left g111trd, with Justin Forrester takinghisplaceatiighttackle. The move sh-oU:ld solidify the line and help protect Ben Gilbert,. who has been sacked 26 times this year, in- .cludingthe Yale scrimmage. Sophomore rumting back Jasper Mills bad another solid game· run- ning the ball and ended the day with· 80 yards. However,. Gilbert only comp1eted lO passes in 30 at- tempts and: ended the day with 116 yards. the total offense only had -186 total yards and a dismal 2;6- yard avera;geperplay. The Dutch- men again lead the time of posses: sion, 32:30to 27:30. The offense also only converted a dismal four SCORE BY QUAR1ER 1EAM 1 2 3 4 F - - - - - UNION 6 6 8 0 10 Hobart 7 0 7 0 14 of 19 .third downs. O'Donnell is still confident, stating, ··we have the players who are capableofscor- ing. We just need to pull it together, and we will do that.;, The best trait of this team is that .they do n0t give up. \This team is never going to quit. That's their nttmber one trademark. I have got to give the kids credit.'' In addition to the offense, spe- cial teall1S have been struggling tbis season. Last yeat, it was one of Union's biggeststrengths, hutthis Calvert Craryrrc Senior Wide Receiver Brian 0 'Donne[ runs the ball deep into the opponent's temtory. Passing Ben Gilbert Bryan Slekes Rushing Jasper Mills Matt Laporta Jay W arzala Ben Gilbert R eceivi\g Bryan Slekes Brian O'Donnell D an Bamfo rd Matt Laporta Joe Attanasio Mike Thompsol'). Jay Orkwis Adam Tykinski Mike Rosenthal George Kandirakis Devon Wimberly QJte.a s.i'£ ~ S.. ta ti s.lic:s. ATT COMP !NT. 30 10 0 1 0 1 ATT NET TD'S 20 80 0 4 16 0 1 5 0 12 -3 3 0 CATCHES YARDS TD'S 4 60 0 4 50 0 1 s 0 1 1 0 D efen siv e Sta tisti er Tackles INT Saclcr 5 2 0 9 0 2 9 0 0 7 0 0 7 0 0 l 1 0 5 0 0 year has been a different story. Two field goals were missed during the WPI game, which in the end made the difference. Last weekend, an extra-point was missed, as well as a field goal Although it didn't have the implications that WPI gamehad, itisstillaproblem. The absence of Williams hurt, but clearly the special teams must be more special. Enough cannot be said about the defense. The defense forced six fumbles, four of which Union recovered, and intercepted three passes. The defense also com- bined for five sacks for a loss of 31 yards. The team will be on the road for the fourth time in five games again including the Yale scrimmage. This week, the Dutchmen travel to Lancaster, Pennsylvania to take on Franklin and Marshall. The Dutchmen have met the Dip- lomats only twice, and F&M has won both games. The last game was played in Schenectady in 1988. This year, the Diplomats have lost their first three games. Audino catttions, \They have a great his- tory and they are a very well coached team.\ Union will embark on the six-hour journey to Lancaster on Friday morning and will stop at Lehigh University to practice. The two t~ams will kick off at 1:00 PM. The game can be heard live on 89.7, WRUC with the Pre-Game show at 12:30. YARDS TD'S 116 0 0 0 LONG 16 10 5 7 LONG 40 16 5 1 Pass BrUp TD's 1 0 0 0 0 0 l 0 0 1 0 1 1 0 _.,

I. ~age 20 • Septemb€r 30, 1999 • (linttrorhiensbs ~Dutchwoman of the Week: Cory Kiefer Offense Struggles as Men's Soccer Falls to ' Cory had a great game against Saint Lawrence when she assisted a goal and later put one in the net herself. Kiefer has been a consistent goal-scorer for the Dutchwomen all season. U of Rand Vassar Congratulations, Cory! SloauMiller/TC Kiefer watches the ball after passing it to her teammate. by Rachel Bukowski Sports Editor The Union College Men '·s Soc;.. cer Team had a frustrating and dis- app()inting weekend, enduring tw() hard losses, one against the Uni- versity of:Rochester anQ: 1}Ie other a close game against Vassar CoiL lege. On Wednesday, September22, the team traveled the long, tedious bus ride to Rochester only to lose to the Yellowjackets by a score of 5.-l. The tlrree-hol.lf mid-week trip must have t~ken its toll on the ~~~~---~----------~--~~~--~~-----~----'---~ Dutchmen, as Rochester iminedi- Dutchman of the Week: Graham Lombardo Graham scored the Dutchmen's two goals this weekend against University of Rochester and Vassar. This freshman also leads his team in goals and number of assists for the season thus far. • ·.· ·\\ \{;. i ·t.~ ... ~ ..... ately jumped to an easy 4.:0 le<~.d. Union failed to respond to this ti- rade of goals, and the score re- mained 4-0 at the end of the frrst hal£ The Dutchmen came back strong in the second half in art at,.. ·tempt to recover fr()lU this huge deficit, but their efforts came too late. \J\he Y ellowjackets scoted another goal just seven minutes into he second half to make the score 5.-0. The goal was scored by Dan Ruegg, who.ended up with his first career hattrick. Freshman Graham Lombardo prevented a shutout of the Dutch,. men when he scored with just seven minutes left in the game off of an assist from Dave Boolcrna,n. Congratulations, Graham! The Dutchmen did manage eight shots ort goal against the Yellowjackets 12. The ratio of L----~-~--.....::....:+lt.:.:;.•....:-·....: 1 -· -_. -.:....._+-....:\~~ ........... SkiitiiUfleirrfc. shots on goal between the two teams was not very significant; Union simply could not seem to fmd the back of the net in this par- Graham drives the ball down the field en route to one of his many gf>als thus far this season. ~-------~-~~~-------------------------1 ticular contest. Ten .- ni·s Team Serves Up AJSheddhadtw.osavesinnet . - . - . · ' . · . and allowed four goals in. Later in the game, he was replacedbyjim- Impressive Performances at :::::~~~:~:g~~~~n!,one Rolex Tournament by Jessica Miller Contributing Writer Unfortunately, due to tl!e rain, Union students were not able to witness the Dutchwomen domi- nate the courts in their ftrst sched- uled home match against Oneonta. But have no fear, it is rescheduled for the sixtl:wfOcto- ber. In addition to this, everyone will have the opportunity to see them on Tuesday at 4:00 :PM when they will be matched U]l against Hartwick College on h()me terri- tory. competed in the first round of the two-day tournament. Th-ey were very successful in thei:r first set of matches. Captain Cassie. Lawton, junior Becky Rubin, ancl sopho- mores Liz Agar and Susan Yoo all won their first round singles matches. The Dutchwomen continued to successfully dominate the first round. The teams ofLawton-Agar, and Rubin- Y oo won their doubles matches as well. The Dutcllwornen started out strong and confident on the courts, and remained ag- gressive throughout the tourna- ment even as the cornJleiiti(}n got tougher. and move on in the competition. Saturday was a whole new re<dm of fierce competition. With the sun shining and the crisp fall :air creat- ing a breeze, the weather was ideal for tennis. Lawton won her first singles match, but was beaten in the next round when she faced the number one seeded player from Grove City. The doubles team of Lawton - Agar made their way to the semi- fmals where they were defeated in three sets by a team from SUNY Cortland. \It was a close match with many long points,\ said an exhausted Agar. \We started oui well win- ning the first set. I guess we just lost our momentum after that. It was a good match though; we played well,\ . - - -Three days later, Union. traveled to 'P~ughkeepsie, NY to face a to11gh tei:!._m from Vassar College, after coming offof their liard loss atUofR. The Dutchmen clearly held the advantage over Vassar. They sig- nificantlY outshot Vassar and main- tained coatrol of the ball for the majority ofthe game. Despite this, Union could not put the ball into the net in order to defeat Vassar. The fmal score of the game was 2-1· in favor ofVassar. Once again, Lombardo scored the lone Dutch- man goal.off of an assist f()r Aaron Sabin to prevent the shutout in a frustrating ga:me forUnion. Jeff Guinn expressed his feelings about the way his team has been performing lately, and especially about the way they played on Sat- mday. He stated, \On Saturday, we had one of our best games ever. We had ,plenty of chances to capi- talize on this outstanding :play, but we just couldn~t score goa:ls. The turf at Vassar was a tougb adjust- ment, but we had mote problems than the turf.\ When asked about what he planned to do to step up the of- fense .ofl>is stnJggling team, Guinn explained, \Riglitnow we are look- ing for someone to step up and put the ball in, and we currently don't have anyone doing this. We need . a scorer and someone who can cre- ate chances for us. We do have a full week of practice on turf ahead of us, and hopefully we can ad- just.\ Hopefully, the Dutchmen can find that person to step up and score, sirice they hav:e a 'Competi- tive and bust gchedule ahead of them. Their next three games are away at Skidmore, RPI;and Utica College, but orr October 9 at 4:00 PM, they willregain the home field advantage against Genese-o. The Women's Tennis 1'eam was busy last week despite the rained out match. The Dutchwornen were diligently practicing :and pre- paring for the Rolex Toamament, with took place at H()bart and William Smith College tllis past weekend. This highly C()mpeti- tive tournament hosted players from 12 teams coming fr<>m col- leges allover New York :and Penn- sylvania. On Friday, the Dutdtwomen In the second round, tlley were faced with some difficult oppo- nents. Rubin played a hard singles match against the fourth seed player from Hamilton and was de- feated in a long and arduous match. At the end tb.e second round and a tiring day, Lawton re- mained unbeaten in singles, as did the doubles team of Lawton- Agar. These women went onto .play more matches on Saturday .afternoon What will you hear about the Dutchwomen next? Their next match is Tuesday versus Hartwick and then they will IJe playing nearby at Skidmore on October 1. Don't miss it! Come and see them in action this fall as they excel on · the coullb. Senior Captain Harry Welsh successfully maneuvers around a defender.

a lly at- pi- he n't re- of 1ca Spcrts QJ:nruorbitn2!il'li • September 30, 1999 • Pa_ge 21 Can't Stop Dutchwoman Soccer Outs hoot Hamilton 28-8} Vassar 29-5 by Meridith Chace Contributing Writer The Union Women '.s Soccer Teatn wasinaction this pastwe<;:k. They tied Hamilton College and defeated Vassar College io two hard,iought matches to extend theirumbeateh streak to 17 games. On Wednesday 1 Union faced Hami!lton in a tough contest that endeil in a disappointing 1-1 tie, whida ended the Dutchwomen's seven-game winning streak that had begun on October 16 of last season. Jn the first half, Uni()n played . well, but could not seem to triumph offensively. Unfortunately, Hamilton was able to score just 16 minutes into the game~,g;iving them a 1-'0 lead. The Dutchwomen fought bard for the remainder of the £rrst half; but they could not seem to fin,d the hack of the n.et. In the secondhalf, Lawen Byrne scored with the aidofan A:bby Har- ris assist with 27 minut~s remain- ing in the game. It looked as though File Photo Carrie Price moves the ball through the opposition 'sdefense. . \ ·-. ,-~_-.- · .,.,,.1· ... · · r· ?.fl .. · .. f • ·•·. : : ; c'f c~;· [' , . , I . '·' . . , .. : . .;C:-; . . . '' : Uf}ion could possibly take over this tight game and emerge victorious. Despite their valiant efforts, how- ever, the Dutchwomen were held ata stalemate at the end of regula- tion. In overtime, Union did not mali- age to score despite a powerful offensive surge. They were able to lwld off Hamilton to end the game in a 1-1 tie. Goalkeeper Shannon Powers came up big in overtime with an amazing diving save to keep Union in the game. Union dearly dominated the game with a 16-2 corner kick ad- vantage in addition to outshootirrg Hamilton 28-8, a significant differ- ence. The women saw standout per- formances frpm Byrne, as well as midfielders Beth Fisher and Stephanie Maychek. Powers had an impressive seven saves. Coach Brian Speck thoughtthat the team .played well all around; even though he was disappointed with the ultimate outcome. He said, -.\We don'tlikelosingandwedon't like tying our opponents.\ He then went on to say, \You hate to be the team that plays us after we lose.\ That is exactly the kind of attitude that his tean1 traveled to Vassar with on Saturday afternoon for their second home game of the week. Union destroyed Vassar by a score of 5-1. Katie Smith didn't waste any time, as she scored six :rpinutes into the game with an as- sist from Carrie P.rice. Missy Matusewicz scored twice in the first half, her six.th and seventh goals of the young season, on Tara lllsiey and Smith assists. The score at the half was 3-0, but Union did not let up on the Vassar defense. The Dutch women File Photo Sophomore Katie Smith celebrrites after a successful goal. .· '· ·,' 3:<~-. ..,_ .,, File Photo A Union midfielder clears the ball out of Dutchwoman territory. scored two more times in the sec- ond half. Samantha Ryall scored her first goal of the season to make the score 4-0. It looked as if this game could end in a Union shutout. However, Vassar finally got the opportunity to respond to the tirade of Union goals and scot:ed a goal of their own 10. minutes into the second half. This effort came too little and too late though, and Abby Harris punctuated the victory just a minute later with the fifth and fmal goal for the Dutch women. Union outshot Vassar 29-5. Pow- ers had four saves in the near-shut- out, and the team played effectively overall. Smith stood out as an es- sential asset in this particular con- test with one goal and one assist along with a number·of additional outstanding offensive plays. Cap- tain Jaymee Wilson displayed her leadership abilities and stepped up in the second half to organize and regroup the struggling Union de- fense. The win this weekend brought the.Dutchwomen 's record to 4-0-1. Matusewicz leads the UCAA in points and goals with 16 total points; seven goals and two as- sists. OfMatusewicz, Speck claimed, \Missy is probably one of the best forwards in the country on the Di- vision III level.\ Also pacing the offense is se- nior captain Abby Harris with four goals and two assists and fresh- m<tn Abby West who currently has three goals and three assists. West is ranked second in the UCAA league for assists. Speck is happy that everyone is playing well as a team. He stated, \A good amount of our reserves are stepping up and putting some pressure on some of our returning starters. I guess that's a nice situation to have.\ The Dutchwomen are now get- ting ready for a big week at home. They will face New Paltz on Wednesday, September 29 at 4:00 PM, Skidmore on Friday at 4:00 PM and an undefeated RPI team on Saturday at 2:00PM. These games will all be held on the Union soccer field behind the Fieldhouse. Come and support this team as they work their way to the top. . ·, . .. . . . Write for Concordiensisl · <;·:,We.'nHCI your ·help. Meet with .· ' .. ; u.s.:torlight at 7:00PM in ~oom · 30·3 of the College Center.

'I ' \ .Page 22 • September 30, 1999 • or01trodriensis Sports Ryder Cup Returns Home After Four Year Hiatus byDavidC. Brooks Editor-in-Chief As soon as I learned 24 of the top golfers in the W()rld would meet at The Country Club in Brookline, Massachusetts for the 33rd Ryder Cup, I knew I would be there. With a ticket for every day in my hands. I embarked on what was the best sporting event of my lifetime. The scene was amazing: 30,000 of your closest friends huddled along the fair- way~. to watch the best golfers take an aim at history. The Euro~ pcans had won, surprisingly, the last two Ryder Cups. On paper, the Americans looked tmstop- pable, but we soon learned that would not hold ttu.e. It 1927, a wealthy British man name<! Samuel Ryder started this friendly competition. It was first held that ye<Jr in Worcester, and would prove to become one of the mo~t popular sporting events in the wmld. The Country Club had been transformed from a quiet country club to the host of the Ryder Cup. They spared no expense. There were seven \Jumbotrons\ which showed the action_ on the course, enough hospitality tents to house a small village ($.5million each), a merchandise tent that sold nearly $2 million every day for six days, 4,00() volunteers, enough beer to last Union at least two weeks and fournavy jets that flew overhead durin,g the opening ceremonies. You could not bring in any elec- tronics, but could buy an \offi- cial\ radio for $12, which I did. There were mobile A TM 's that I attempted to drive away with (never even made it to the driver's seat Port-A-P()tties that filled .1 -~': 1 I I~Y [)I· R c lll> I\ .. 1 i\TC f-II~S MEMBER GUEST TE T Wednesday ~0«1633 before Tiger even teed off, a11d cheeseburgers smaller then ones.at Dutch that cost only $6.25. Beer was a bargain at$4.50. They WO'U[d even let ou wander the c()urse with . an open container. The clubhouse had put all its furniture in storage and rented fur- niture for the week. The clubhouse had some ofthe best food. There The Possibility of a Subway Series by Vinod V ()leti Contributing Writer If you were to stand in the middle of New York City on an average autumn day, you would see what most others would see: the p.lethora of people dressed warmly as they rush off to wherever they are headed, newspaper peddlers cautiously keeping an eye on their papers and hoping they will not be blown away, the young children running home from school with their baseball caps on and of course, the leaves changing colors in Central Park. Though these sites are typical of any metropolitan area, there is something significantly different about the air in the Big Apple, and that is the distinct odor ofbaseball fever. The success of both New York teams throughout the season has caused the odor to be 10 times stronger this year. Many peopleare beginning to fancy what a Subway WorldSeries between the New York Yankees and tile New York Mets would be like. Such an incident would definitely be the talk of the city, if not the talk of tile nation. Though the New York Mets have had an outstanding season and have been a strong challenger to the Atlanta Braves for the division title, they have re~ently gone flat and have left the Braves alone at the top. The Braves clinched th.eir eighth division championship of this decade on Sunday, conse- quently leaving the Mets to fight for the NL wildcard spot. Now that the Mets have re- turned home to rest for one day, they will close the season with a series against the Braves followed by another one against the Pirates. They h&ve six remaining games. to prove that they are worthy ofthe wild card spot and deserve a chance to play in the 1999 World Series. The New Y ()rk Yankees, on the other hand, are ill a much more com- fortable positio11. Their only wony right now is c<>mpeting with the Cleveland Indians for home field advantage throughout the AL playoffs. The <iefending champi~ ons have alre11dy begun to fine- tune for the playoffs as they pre- pare for their season's closing se- ries against Baltimore and Tampa Bay. Among the heavy hitters, Derek Jeter, Bernie Williams, Paul O'Neill and Tino Martinez are all expected to teach the 100 RBI mark. The Yankees are defmitely focusing on . earning a chance to defend their title in the 1999 World Series. So what if it actudly did happen? A Subway World Series between the Yanks and the Mets would be something to talk about. What would such a thing do for base- ball? Some say that the rest of the na- • tion would feel out of the loop and would notenjoy the World Series · as much as New Yorkers would. Others say that such aseries would give baseball a new life that will· excite not only New York baseball fans, but also all the rest of the nation's baseball fans as well. Such a series could. shine a new · lig!tt on New York as the city that . has had. the opport11nity to see thousands .of baseball fans storm into the tri-state area in order to catch a game ofa series th,at will be one ofits own in hist()ry. We will just have to wait and :see how our two teams do for the rest of the season and for the :playoffs as they battle for a chance to be a part of the 1999 World Series. was simply no expense spared. Some might even say it was too much, but not in my·eyes. I watched two practice rounds on Thursday, as golfers joked with the crowds, gave away balls, and laughed with each other. However, as soon as Friday arrived, it was all about golf. Incidentally, I saw Michael Jordan on Friday. He de- clined to give me an autograph. Corning into Sunday, the Ameri- cans trailed 10-6, a deficit that no team has ever rebounded from. Captain.Ben Crenshaw said he felt good about the ch~nce of a win. It appeared over, but there was still hope. After my mother left my house at 8:00AM to grao seats for the rest of us, I had breakfast an.d rode my bicycle to The Country Club. We sent up camp on the sixth hole. My mother had gotten there at 8: 15 AM, two and a half hours before tee time, and the stands on the sixth hole were already filled to tapacitr. This,proved to be wonderful, as we had the best seats on the fa:irway. They were 25 yards from the green and the side of the fairway that ev- eryone walked by. F~r instanacej former President George Bush, and his. son, Gov:er- norGeorge BushofTexas, sat 15 yards to the left of me. All the Wives, girlfriends and mothers walked by me. Mrs. Mickleson stopped in front of me, said \hi\ to . me and smiled. Their significant others had their own uniforms, com- plete with golf shoes. It actually bothered me that so many people were wearing golf shoes. I saw so mai}.y spectators walking with golf shoes. I was wondering if they wear their high tops to basketball games, or cleats to football games, or ice skates to hockey games. What's up with that? :&ven Jordan was wearing golf shoes and a Jordan hat, just in case we forgot who he is. The players, however, did not do much better with thei.J: uniforms. Friday tl}.ey looked, as one spec- tator .said, \like they were being sponsored by UPS: all gray.\ Sun- daywas·horrible. The golferswore shirts depicting past Ryder Cup moments. Up close they were strange and from far away they were the worst looking shirts. Julie Crenshaw could have done bet- ter. Jordan also managed to walk behind the players. I guess that is what you can get away with if you are Michael. I tried that, but they kicked me off. Colin Montgomerie 's wife also sat in front of me on the sixth hole. She was. talking to a British re- porter about how there was too much drinking. She said it would never happen it London. She was just upset because the patriotic drunken fans started yelling at her husband, which riled him up, and made hi.tri play worse. I told her .J thought it was fme. She laughed at me, but was po- lite. I tried to tell her it was a part ofthe American Sporting Tradi- tion. As every member of the USA team approached the green, the · crowd started chanting, \USA!!! USA!!! l)SA!!!\ It made me feel proud to be American. The golf- ers smiled, tipped their hats, and went on. The Americans slowly gained on the· Europeans and we were looking strong. After Justin Leonard sunk the 45 putt to win the match, roars as load as you can imagine erupted from the crowd. . Goose bumps swept my body and the Americans won 14.5 to 13.5. / . As they stood on the balcony ofthe Country Club,. champagne sprayed into the crowd and Da~id Duval took his glasses off and Ti- ger Woods even. smiled. Noone cared about the money. It was, without a doubt, 'the best sport- ing event I have ever attended in my life. Write for Sportsi Come to a meeting TONIGHT at 7:00 in Room 303 of the Campus Center. All are welcomed.

Sports OJat:tto:r.~~~iis • September 30, 1999 • Page 23 Field Hockey Shuts Out Williams 3-0 Wells Top-Ranked Goalie in UCAA by Cory Kief~r Contributing Writer· The Union College Dutchwemen's Field H0ckeyTeam dov~ into its third week of game play this past Monday. The group continues to progress through the season and is practicing hard to keep their ·tecord improving. They were faced with two chal- lenging adversaries this past week. Their first game was against Will- iams College Q:U Thursday after• noon, and.24 hours b1ter the women found themselves hackon the field to take on St. Lawrence University. The girls made the trip to Will- iams College on Thursday to face their opponents. The game was. set on a grass field, a different set- ting for the Dutch women who are used to playing and practicing on. turf: Grass makes for a much slower. game and utilizes different skills than a turf game would. Still, the Dutch women had conquered teams on grass before and they were ready to do it again. The game started off sour for the Dutch women with William~ scor'- ing in the early minutes of the first ha:Jf. The team stayed together, though, and got used to the field quickly. The first half ended with no other·goals by either team de- spite 'i valiant effoi1 by the Dutch offense.· The second halfbegan with the Dutchwomen ready to ·fighfback Sloan Miller lTC Jaclde Eatz pre-v.ellts the ball from going out ofbounas. froJU ~eir deficit They came off strong and pre_ssured Williams, dominating :the half. Unfortuately, Williams was able to sneak another goal hy the Union net, makmg the. score 2-0. Union refused to give up without a fight, though:, and with a-strong shot from the top of the ciicie~ 1 Heather Babcock foun-<1 the hack of the Williams net with only thee seconds left on the clock. The fmal score was 2-1 in favor of Williams. Less than 24 hours later tlte DutcbwG111en were Oil the field ag~ this tim~ on home turf. The:y faced fellow UCAA opponent, St. Lawrence University. Withasmall mi~·up in uniform colors and the excellent timing ofapoweroutage put behind them, Union was ready to start tb.e game. Union came off strong rig!J.t from the start and refused to let St. Lawrence get thebest oftherh. The team dominated the frrst half, and their. first goal came from a penalty comer. Susan Joyal pushed the baH out from the side, and with a stop fromAlisonStruzzire, Jackie Eatz was able to dr:ive the ball in goal. The first half ended 1-0 in Union's favor. Union was not going to let the game end there. The first goal of the second half was neatly placed in the net by Terra Lederhouse, as- S·iSted by Cory Kiefer. The Dutchwomen continued to domi- nate the second half, offensively and defensively. The third and fmal goal was care- fully executed by Cory Kiefer and was assisted by Anson Struzziro. The garne ended in a 3-0 win for the Dutchwomen. Netminder Jes- sica Wells was awarded the shut- out in goal. The team is currently in fourth place in the UCAA league with a solid 2-2 record against UCAA teams. Struzziroholds third place in the league in assist scoring, while Yvonne Turchetti and Cory Kiefer are seventh and fourteenth in point scoring, respectively. Goalie Jessica Wells is first in the league in goals against average and an imptessiv.e second in save percentage. The Dutchwomeri' s next home game en Thursday September 30 against Vassar Colle~e at 4:00PM. Please come and show your sup- port! Colgate Inches by Union Women's Rugby Rookies Step Up Intensity in Disappionting Loss by Katie Comerford Contributing Writer The Union College Women's Rugby Team traveled to Colgate University this weekend where they were handed a tough loss by the close score of 17-12. This year is Colgate • s first in the league and they proved to be tough competi-. tion for the Union Dutchwomen. Since they came offof an easy win last weekend, the Dutchwomen were not expecting such stiff competition from Colgate. Shelly Moran, who stood in awe after the first play, was quoted as saying, \This is a pile-driver, yes, 111¥ friends, a pile . driver!\ Even though the competition was intense, ,there were a number of outstanding plays that took place. Jen Comerford ran 60 yatds into the try-z;one and almost scored, but was stopped just short. In a state of disappointment, she stated, \ 1 should have just passed it to my sister!\ However, tries were scored by Tomi ''Thor'' AUanson, Leah Baker, and Michelle Stein who all played outstanding games, despite a new array ofbumps and bruises. New- comer Becky Scrimo led the line with an amazing performance at the fly-half. Captain Jen Comerford h.ad a great game at outside center where slte consistently broke through Colgate's line and intercepted a number of passes. Seniors Marissa Reisman and Caitlin Calahan played awesome games at wing where they consistently gained yardage towards tries. The serum was a lively. crew as well. Under the guidance of vets Ellen Taylor, TontiAllanson,Becca Walsh, MeaganCrowley, and Stacy Barnard, the serum played an out- standing game and kept Union alive and fighting until· the very ~nd. Senior Captain Ellen Taylor had an amazing game in tlte scn;un wltere she led the team forward toward tries throughout the course of the game. All in all, the Union women held th:eir own in a tough matcJJ...,up w]lich served as a learning ex.peri- ence for this young team whkh too ks as if it is off to a promisi.JL.g start. The game was away and because of this, our huge crowd could not be there. However, our die-hard fans, Seth Potkinand Heath Levine, were, ofcourse, present and cheer• ing u:s on Thanks guys! A B-side game was also played on Satarday. The newcomers played a great game and were we!· come additions to the team. The rookies should be commended O<n their performance thus far this sea, soa. They have adjusted well an.d are teaming the plays and rules_ of the game quite nicely. Under the guidance of Coa~h Dave Robbins, the Women's team is c:onting along quite well. With a mo-nth left on their schedule, 1hey have a chance to make up for tile tou.gh loss they suffered this .pa~t weekend. The girls do not have a ho~e game for the next two weeks, ht!t doba.ve a large number ofupc()ltl- in~ away games includi11g Pla:ttsburgh, Clarkson, Potsdam, St. .LawrtCn(;C,. and Hamyick. ' . File Photo The pain is evident OIZ Katie Comerford's face as s lie takes a rough hit .

keep the ball 1Jry

. .· ~·· keep the hall bury

