\Journalists do not live by words a.lone, although sometimes they have to eat them.\ . . . News: AAC Approves Changes to Pass/Fail Policy Weekend Full of Music by MicbaelMcG'uire Copy Editor The Academic Affairs Co1Ill11it-- tee has approv.ed changes to Union's Pass/Fail system, anini- Page 5 tiative started by Senior Brooke ....__,.. _______ ......,.._ ........ ......,..J. . Barylick. Under the current system, Dean Calls Pledges Criminals PageS · Features: The Final Ride on the Pine Page 13 students may take foUI Pass/Fail courses .during their f()ur years at · Union, h.oweverfreshnienare only eligible for for this option during . Spring term, and no student may take mo.re than one peT academic year. In addition, students may not take any cou.rse Pass/Fail that is a part of their GenEd, major or minor requirements. The approved change would al- low students more fle~ibility in tak- ing Pass/Fail courses. The aforementioned restrictions would still be in place, however students will now be able te take one per term rather tha:n one per academic year. When asked about the changes approved-by the AAC, Professor Walker, a member of the connnit- tee; said h€ is in favor ofthem. He said, «This is a big step.\' He added that this policy improves flexibility for students. Bradley Lewis, As- sociate Dean for Undergraduate Sloan Mi.ll P Senior Brooke Barylick worked on a Pass/Fail proposal. Educ;;~qon, and a non-voting mem- ber of the committee, stated that the proposed policy is fine. He added that it \fits with the way in which students take requirero€nts early aJ;ld allows them to use Pass/ Fail later to experiment if they save them.\ Sophomore Dan Kirsch, who also sits on the committee, said that he was glad he voted for the pro- posal that passed, and called it \bette:~; than nothing.\ Kirsch added, ' 1 The previous system didn't give enough options to stu- dents.\ Barylick said, 1 '1 raised the issue because of the many stressful re- quirements that seniors deal with in their fmal year, including thesis, job search, and applying to gradu- ate programs, all of which tend to occur around the same time. There- fore, to alleviate the burden on se- niors, as well as other students who are enrolled in difficult courses, it would be beneficial for ~ them to talce Pass/Fail classes at more convenient times for them rather than simply one per year.\ The change passed by the AAC was not the exact proposal submit- ted by Barylick, who also sits on the AAC. She suggested another alternative to the cu-rrent system that would aHow up to two per term. while keeping the same stipulations as the other ,plans. \Originally I wanted students to have the flexibility to take up to two Pass/Fail classes per term. Unfor- tunately, the faculty on the com- mittee turned down the proposal because they thought that it was not good for the academic environ~ ment. \If students want to take ~ class Pass/Fail, regardless if it is one in a term or two,' they should be able to do so. The faculty decided to pe- nalize all students 'because of the Coltfinued on page 6 Sports: Hockey Losing Confidence SDT Proposal for Rei~statement Page 20 Inside Campus News - 3 Opinion~ .. 8 .Features -12 . . . World.News ·~ 14 .- .. ' - ' . .-· < .. A&E'-16. ~ ' • - !•. - •• '- - ~ Technology .. 18 Sports-1~ Our E-mail , ' ' . I·· . , , . , ' . I • . . concordy@ vu~union.edu by Jessica Z11eblke News EdiUJr Last Thursday, Sigma Delta Tau submitted their proposal asking for the reinstatementoftheitprivileges as an active sorority. Dean Alford will make a dec isionas to their sta- tus based on the contents of the proposal, the feedback from the Student Affairs Committee and fonner Conduct connn:ittees, input from co lieges which he trusts, and his own personal judgement President of Sigma .Delta Tau, Jessica Henry, said, ·~we are not asking for anything tangible like . housing. We just W§lntthe right to the right apply for hoasing and the ability to participate in Rush.\ Last year, Sigma Delta Tau pledges were caugh.tparticipating in a scavenger hunt that included alcohol. The case was brought in ~~~~~~~~~~~- front of the Condact Committee who found the sor<Jrity guilty of hazing. However, Dean Alford in- creased the severity of the sanc- tion recommended hy the Conduct Committee. Consequently, Sigma Delta Tau lost all their social and residential privileges for one full year. In addition, the sorority had to host eight educational programs on alcohol awareness and/or haz- ing. In accordance with their proba- tion sanctions, the sorority has hosted a number of hazing work- shops over the course of the year to raise awareness about the dan- gers of hazing. According to Hemy, the house was slow to start their workshops in the Fall because of the lack of cohesiveness that resulted in the loss of their house. \Overall it has been a tough year.. At ftrst the girls were disheartened because we were scattered all over campus, but we've managed to pull together.\ Workshops have consisted of speakers and discussion groups that have had good turnouts. Dean Alford commented, \I have been to a number of thei.J.: events and they included thoughtful con- versations with a number of people.\ Dean Alford has had various meetings with the leadership of Sigma Delta Tau. \I know the lead- ers understand the importance of getting rid of hazing, but can they communicate this importance to ·the other members in the house? I certainly hope they are committed to doing it.\ llenry stated, .. We didn't just make a surface change. [Each sis- ter] has had an inherent change in her tnindsef.'' Dean Alford was asked by the members ofPanhellenk Council to make the decision before the be- ginning of spring term. President of PanheH, Meghan O'Keefe, stated, \(Dean Alford] promised to make the decision before .spring break so if Sigma Delta Tau were granted their privileges, they could participate in Rush.\ However, ac- cording to Dean Alford, he is go- ing to wait until the full sentence bas been served, one full year af- ter the infraction. He will be wait- ing until the second week in March, around March 12, before he makes a public statement. Henry mentioned that if ac- cepted, she might have to stay at school fat the break in order to pre- pare for Rush. According to Henry, the pro- posal consisted of a compilation ofletters from sisters, other mem- bers ariel organizations of the cam- pus as wellas parents. In the docu- ment, the house exp.ressed what they did over the past year and how they plan on changing for the fu- ture. The proposal also included an anti-hazing honor code, which Sigma De.lta Tau designed in hopes that every sorority member on cam- pus will sign. Ideally, the honor code will allow for inter-sorority cross checking in order to keep each house hazing- free. \The anti-hazing honor code al- lows us to police each other. If anyone sees hazing anywhere, the offending sorority will be warned. If it happens again, the case will be given to the Dean's office,\ said Henry. There is still a possibility that Sigma Delta Tau will not retain its privileges. If rejected, presumably \the probl~m will be identified as well as the benchmark for correct- ing it,\ Dean Alford stated. If rejected, \[Sigma Delta Tau} will do whatever the school wants so we can prove ourselves. We are not going to just give up,\ Henry said. 0 'Keefe. commented, \['Panhell] is hopeful they will be reinstated. I believe that they have worked re- ally hard and proven themselves able to make a commitment not to .haze.\' Dean Alford is hopeful that Sigma Delta Tau will have learned their lesson. ''1 want them to suc- ceed and get hazing out of their system, r.;>ot and branch. That was the purpose of all of this.\

\Journalists do not live by words alone, although sometimes they have to eat them.\ -Adlai Eo Stevenson News: Weekend Full of Music PageS Op/Ed: Dean Calls Pledges Criminals Page 8 Features: The Final Ride on the Pine Page 13 Sports: Hockey Losing Confidence Page 20 Inside Campus News- 3 Opinions- 8 Features -12 World News -14 A &E-16 Technology -18 Sports -19 Our E-mail concotdy@ vu.union.edu AAC Approves Changes to Pass/Fail Policy by Michael McGuire Copy EditoJ' The Academic Affairs Commit- tee has approved changes to Union's Pass/Fail system, an ini- tiative started by Seiiior Brooke Barylick. Under the cunent system, students may take fo11r Pass/Fail courses during their foeur years at Union, however ftesllnen are only eligible for for this option during Spring term, and no student may take more than one p-er academic year. In addition, stud~nts may not take any course Pass/}'ail that is a part of their GenEd, major or minor requirements. The approved change would al- low stu <Ients more flex:.ibility in tak- ing Pass/Fail courses. The aforementionec:l restrictions would still be in place, however students will now be able to take one per term rather 1than one per academic year. When asked about the changes approved by the AAC, Professor Walker, amemberofthe commit- tee, said he is in favorr of them. He said, \This is a big step.\ He added that this policy impro\'Ves flexibility for students. Bradley Lewis, As- sociate Dean for Umdergraduate Sloan 1'1 iller/CP Senior Brooke Barylick worked on a Pass/Fail pr()posal. Education, and a non-voting mem- ber of the committee, stated that the proposed policy is fine. He added that it \fits with the way in which students take requirements early and allows them to use Pass/ Fail later to experiment if they save them.\ Sophomore Dan Kirsch, who also sits on the committee, said that he was glad he voted for the pro- posal that passed, and called it \better than Bathing.\ Kirsch added. \'The previous system didn't give enough options to stu- dents.\ Barylick said, \I raised the issue becau~e of the many s.tressful re- quirerneltts that seniors deal with in their final year, including thesis, job search, and applying to gradu- ate programs, all of which tend to occur around the same time. There- fore, to alleviate the burden on se- niors, as we 11 as Dther students who are enrolled in difficult courses, it would be beneficial for them tu tafe Pass Fail classes at more convement timt:s for them ratherthan simply one per year.\ The change passed by the AAC was not the exact pr<Jposal submit- ted by Barylick, v.ho also sits on the AAC. She sug£ested another alternative to the current system thatV~ould allow up to two per tem1, while keeping the s<J.me stipulations as the other plans. \'Originally I wanted students to have the t1exibility to take up to two Pass/Fail classes per term. Unfor- tunately, the faculty on the com- mittee turned down the proposal because they thought that it was not go<ld for the academic environ- ment. \'If s tadents want to take a class Pass/Fail, regardless if it is one in a term or two: they sl!ould be able to do so. The faculty decided to pe- nalize all students because of the Co1ttinued «Jn page 6 SDT Proposal for Reinstatement by Jessie a Z11ehlke News Edtitor Last Thursday, Sigma Delta Tau subm:itted theirprop()sal asking for the reinstatement o ftheir privileges as an active sorority. Dean Alford will make a decisiom as to their sta- tus based on the C()ntents of the proposal, the feedback from the Student Affairs Oommittee and former Conduct cormmittees, input from colleges whicll he trusts, and his own personal j11dgement. President of Sigma Delta Tau, Jessica Henry, said, \We are not asking for anythin:g tangible like hous.ing. We just W\lnt the right to the right apply for housing and the ability to participate in Rush.\ Last year, Sigma Delta Tau pledges were cauglht participating in a scavenger hunt that included alcohol. The case was brought in fran t of the Conduct Committee wh() found the soTority guilty of hazing. However, Dean Alford in- creased the severilty of the sanc- tion recommendell by the Conduct Committee. Consequently, Sigma Deha Tau lost all their social and residential privile:ges for one full year. In addition, the sorority had to host eight educ11tional programs on alcohol awareness and/or haz- in g. In accordance with their proba- tion sanctions, the sorority has hosted a number of hazing work~ shops over the course of the year to raise awareness about the dan- gers of hazing. According to Henry, the house was slow to start their workshops in the Fall because of the lack of cohesiveness tlut resulted in the loss of their house. \Overall it has been a tough year. At first the girls were disheartened because we were scattered all over campus, but we've managed to pull together.\ Workshops have consisted of speakers and discussion groLips that have had good turnouts. Dean Alford commented. \I have been to a number of their events and they included thoughtful con- versations with a number of people.\ Dean Alford has had various meetings with the leadership of Sigma Delta Tau. \I know the lead- ers understand the importance of getting rid of hazing, but can they communicate this importance to the other members in the house? I certainly hope tl1ey are committed to doing it.\ Henry stated, \We didn,t just make a surface change. [Each sis- ter] has had an inheren.t change in her mind set.\ Dea:n Alford was asked by the members ofPanhellenic Council to make 1he decision before the be- ginning of spring tenn. President of Panhell, Meghan. O'Keefe, stated, \[Dean Alford] promised to make the decision before spring break so if Sigma Delta Tau were granted their privileges, they could participate in Rush.\ However, ac- cording to Dean Alford, he is go- ing to wait until the full sentence has been served, one full year af- ter the infraction. He will be wait- ing until the second week in March, around March 12, before he makes a public statement. Henry mentioned. that if ac- cepted. she might ha. ve to stay at school for the break it1 order to pre- pare for Rush. According to Henry, the pro- posal consisted of a compilation of letters from sisters. other mem- bers :and organizations of the cam- pus as well as parents. In the docu- men1, the house e:xpressed what they did over the past year and how they plan on chang;ng for the fu- ture_ The proposal also included an anti-hazing honor code, which Sigma Delta Tau designed in hopes that {:very sorority member on cam- pus 1vill sign. Ideally, the honor code will allow for inter-sorority cross c bee king in order to keep each house hazing;-free. \The anti-hazing honor code al- lows us to police each other. If anyone sees hazi11g anywhere, the offending sorority will be warned. lftt happens agai11. the case will be given to the Dean's office,\ said He:rry. There is still a. possibility that Sig1na Delta Tau\'.\·ill not retain its pri\Vileges. If rejected. presumably \the problem will be identilied as we 11 as the bene hmark for correct- ing it,'' Dean Alford stated. If rejected, \[Sigma Delta Tau] will <lo whatever the schooh\ants so we can pro·ve ourselves. We are not going t() just gJ\'t' up:' Henry said. 0 'Keefe comtnwted. \[Panht'll] is bopefl.Jl they will be reinstated. I believe that they- havl' worked re- ally hard and proven themseh'es able to make a commitment not to haze.\ Dean Alford is hopeful that Sigma Delta Tau wiJI have learned their lesson. \I want them to suc- ceed and get hazing out of their s~s1em, root and branch. That was the purpose ofall ofthis.\

Camp-us Life Student Forum· Notes February 23, .2000· · · Call to Order: 7:05. pm Page 2 • March 2, 2000 •aloruorltiett!Sis Attendance: Christy Weafe:r (L}; Andrew Mark:ow~ki (A); Noah -S-~------.~~-~.---~.~,-c~l~~---~l=t~-------4~~~~~~~;~%&~mw;~~~~~ . ecurtty.. . Incl . ent ·. · .. ep·. ort Minutes: Via.Ema.il;minutesapproved . Officer Reports: ~6 VP ofAdministration (Christy Weafer}-Nothi)J:g to report Sunday, February 20- Saturday, February .tit · Y.PofFinance(Brian.Roache)-Int'lsociety(wantfundsfortripto Sunday, February 20, 2000 Assault (simple) Property Damage Monday, February 21, 2000 Vandalism Injury Vandalism Motor vehicle accident Vandalism Injury Tuesday, February 2'2, 2000 Vandalism Vandalism Motor Vehicle accident Larceny Larceny Vandalism 12: 1 7 am Kappa Sigma. Student reports being assaulted atsoO cial event. Conduct Charges Filed. S.P.D. also involved. 1: 16pm Chi Psi. Window damaged from falling ·icicle. 12: 12am Davidson. Damage to room db()f handle. 8:55am M.E. Lab. Faculty member slipped on ice injllring th.eirelbow. 8:57am Davidson. Door knob kicked ()ff storage room door. 9:56am Raymond lot Property damageaccident Striking vehicle left scene. 1 0:20am Raymond House. Window discoveredbroken. Batfuoom fixtures damaged. 1:42pm Student slipped on. snow & ice injuring their wrist. 2:46am Science & Engineering. Vanda.lism to vending maclllne. 1:23pm Davidson. Damage to door lm.ob on 3n1 closet. 1:45pm Reamer Center. Property dam\'gemotor vehicle accident. Minor damage. 7:30pm Alumni Gym. Theft of cash from walletin men's locicer room. 8:00pm Alunmi Gym. Theft of personal property from men 's]bckerroom ll:OOpm Fox lot. Damage to vehicle windshield. Wednesday, Februarv 23~ 2000 Injury Motor vehicle accide.nt Vandalism Vandalism [njury Thursday, February 24. 2000 Vandalism Motor vehicle accident Larceny Life Safety Violation. Friday, February25,2000 Larceny Property Damage Prop8rty Damage Property Damage Motor Vehicle Accident Saturday, February 26, 2000 Vandalism Harassment 7:OOam Staffmember lacerated fmger. 7:08am Staff member witn~ssed hitan:d run accident involving a students vehicle on Seward Place. S.P.D. notified to investi:gate. 1 O:OOam McKean House. Damage to in:terior wall 1: 16pm Richmond lot. Damageto ve'hide' srear windshield~ 1:43pm Nott Memorial. Student injttied their ankle desceml~g stairs. 5:20am Webster House. Damage to lounge table. · 11 :50am Stoller Circle. Staff member btcked into parked car. Minor damage. 1:30pm Theft of prescription drugs from room. 7:12pm Edwards House. Halogen lamp removed from house. Life Safety Violation issued. I 2:00am Schaffer Library. Theft of audio Visual equipment. . I 2:50pm Reamer Center. Vehicle drove over drain grate and l)roke it. 5:OOpm Sigma Phi. Computer equipmeontdamaged frompo~er surge. 5:37pm FoxHall. T.V., VCRdamagedfrompowersurge. 6: 18pm Seward Pl. Student backed into parked car. Minor dmnage. 5:30am West College. Damage to Ceiling tiles. \ 9: l6pm Seward Pl. City resident arrested for harassment of Campus SafetyOfficer. .· ... ' . --~ _ .. - ' ' '~ . ·- ., ,·- ,· .... ··· . ' ., .. ·• ... we:Lc·oMES' .· .. ; ·•· ,·.· .'· ... '. ·'' ·- : ... ;.· :- . ·.:: - .. -. - GNC ·· \ GENERAL. NtttRftiON·:C:~N'f,ER·;:···,···.· , ·· AVILABLE I'N .. MAY ... :-: ... ,GOLD CARDS AVILA!3Ll3: · .. ' ' .. . ' '• .,.·_ :· •. ···. ' I ' .. WEAR.S LOCATE:D o·N VAN.VRA~NKEN .Avi!:NUE··· (518)3'82.~3304'~. ·,'' '· I } '',,; •i, . . ~ ' . :; ' . -, ., . . . ... ~' •.t'• • •\ \\ :, . \ . . ~ ' DC); Campus Actjon asking for funding {in midst of discussing); inves- tigating stagnant clubs (want reasons for clubs not using allocated funds); -need to decide how to use money for Springfest (how much to 11se fto:tn Student Forum holding account) VP ofCampus Life (Paul Stewart-Stand)-Sat; 2/26 (Tltruway concert... Nott, 5pm) · . . · ' VP of AAC (Danette'Slevinski)-Pass/fail amendment (allowed four pass/fail in 4 yrs. at Union; rnaximum of one a te:rm). . . ' VP of MUlticultural Affairs (Debbie Pellish)-N otbing to report . Trustees ($r-in Aloan inMarkowskPs absence)-. Trustee meeting was successful (passed budget; support revision fQ:t financial aid; discussed ·middle states review and U2K); eager to begin trustee newsletter via email; junior class special elections (Fri, 2/25) IFC -Record number of m.en a\cepting bids this year; hazing speaker- ()::nemorial chapel) . PanHel (Meghan O'Keefe)-InfoJ.1Ull.l rush was successful; DG notable to participate in rush this year; rush registration taking place; all Greek event in Old Chapel (Wed, 3/1) THC (Ian Eletz)-Nothing to report ,Class of2000 (Karen DeVito)-Discussing re-voting on senior class gift; wine and cheese in Nott (3.'4-1 00 days until graduation celebration) Class of 2001 (Jon Lemle in Steve Schuler's absence)-Nothing to report Classof2002 (Julie Wittekind)-Discussing a class party in Old Chapel :Class of 2003 (Pooja Kothari).., Discussing fundraising for spring term Committee Reports: SAC (Jen Caruso)-Bronner House awarded 3-year housing exten- sion Calendar committee (Kevin Nealon)-Preliminary .semester calendat produced (vs. current tri-mester)-vote in spring Old Business: None New Business: . William H. Seward Memorial-Duncan Crary-Working on changing se- nior gift to memorialize Mr .. William H Seward; would like to change trolley (nott-a-bus) name to Seward's Trolley: motion to vote on chang- ing trolley name (second)-Yes, 171/3;No, 0; Abstain, 0 (motion passe~) U2K Topic~;~ Discussion-Student Forum discussed various aspects c()nce.ming each sub-section ofU:2K committee proposal (stUdent-fac- ulty relations; rush) {pledging, social life, .and housing tabled until next week)-i.e.; concerns over content of proposal Concert Committee-With respect to Springfest (how much money from l!()lding account should go towards springfest): passed onto finance committee to decide and then report back to Student Forum Announcements: None • Motion to Adjourn: Second; meeting adjourned at 8:45 pm Announcements JOB FAIR Tuesday, March 14 The Century Honse 997 New London Road Rt. 9, Latham 11 AM to 6 PM Announcingthe Tenth Annual Charles Proteus Steinmetz Sympo- sium Mayl2,2000 S1udents with creative, scholarly and research achievement need t(} register through the Steinmetz Symposium Web Site steinmetz2000.union.edu All students who attend NCUR are expected to present: David Cotter; Assistant Professor of Sociology will be considere~ for reappointment this term. Any member of the campus community wishing to offer written or oral testimony concerning Professor Cotter should contact a member of the Reappointment Review Committee. The committee membeis are: Ilene Kaplan, committee chair (Sociology Department: kaplani@union.edu ); Martha Huggins (Sociology: hugginsm@union.edu); Therese McCarty (Economics: mccartyt@union.edu ). The Adcirondacks Winter 2000 Seminar Series TONIGHT: \Wild Visions'' March 9: \Adirondack Folk, Bluegrass and Clog Dancing\ All events take place in the Nott Memorial at 7 PM Union College Undergraduate Summe•· Research . Fellowsltips Available Earn $2500 plus free room. at the Colle2e. AU applicants must have a faculty sp~msor .. Get information and applications at the Dean's Office Sl09 Science Center Applications due March 1 • c Ur Th Cal Cc th~ fu: Ni on tlu an pu an If• be do th< ler pr1 th< de ca de A< tat m• fa:J ca r ve m thl fo we at1 tic UJ th: ha le: bt Tt ha Sll Tl m ti< th

Campus News . C!Innc:nrhi.enshs•l\larch 2, 2000 • Page 3 Class in the Dark Niagra Mt1hawk arrived to the scene within twenty minutes, but were notable to give an explana- tion. The blo'Wn fuse was idemti- fied as the ~ource immediate 1y, however as of now there is no ex- planation as to how it was blown. Niagta Mohawk checked Union's equipment thoroughly and de- clared that tile campus played no part in the brownout. Seniors Rally to Change Gift by Kristen Zadourian - StafJWriter This past Thursday, much of Union College was without power. The brownout that occllrred ol! tarnpus was nota failure ofUnion College, equipment. The source of the problem carne from a blown fuse on Nott Street owned by Niagra Mohawk Across the street from campus: on Nott Street, there is a pol'e with three fuses, each with 200 kilovolts: and a line that collllects to the cam- pus, This equipment is all o~ecl Last spring~ Union had a simHar situation, where a fuse on NQtt by Gina CamJJanella Staff Writer The consensus of the senior class was disapproving after the . original decision for this year's se- . nior gift had been made. One ac- tive group of seniors, led by Duncan Crary, has already puttheir plan to change the Settior Gift into .. motion. Crary believed that a memorial to William R. Seward would be a Street blew out. The cause of that much better choice for the Senior fuse was rea<lily identifiable. Ap- Gift because it would show that paren.tly, a squirrel had run across Union College students have pride the wire and hit in their history and in tbeir alumni. the fuse, which ·. Crary immediatelybeganbycon- caused the f1!se tactirig different officials on cam- to blow. Bow- pus and by contacting the local ever, this time · press. On February 22, The Daily Union Facilities Gazette printed an article focusing Services a~ci' on the students' efforts to erect a Niagra Mc;>hawk nient.\ did not (md the, · . remains of a]+y · squirrels on .i:he wire. Puliafico s!iid · that it could have - ~ :· According to Puliafico, \Niagra Mohawk is g:enerally very reliable, these guys are professionals and they usually'.c&n give us ~m expla- nation. This was an unusual situ- ation, but for the most part, Niagra Mohawk is very relial;>le. I have no complaints with their' service.\·' : designated for a memorial park. President Hull was not able to of- fer the students' this site for their memorial; however, he was able to offer an equal alternative. As part of the College Park reno- ' vation, the city of Schenectady has agreed to restructure the streets in the area. Part of this street renova- tion will include the p1a~ement of a traffic circle where Huron Street,· Seward A venue and the driveway to West College intersect. Presi- dent Hull has offered the land on the interior of this traffic circle to the students for the location of the memorial if the plan succeeds. the College's concern about btnd- The next step for Crary and his get priority. Currently, the colle:ge supporters is to gain the full sup- ,receives gifts in the form ofunre- port of the senior class and to in- . stricted funds. These funds :fi- spire a revote concerning the se- nance everything from mainte- nior gift. This past Tuesday nance~ salaries, financial aid an~ evening, all seniors were invited to sch()larship money. It is tempting a meeting to discuss the idea of a for tile proprietors of a fundraising revote. At this meeting, petitions proJect of this magnitude to con- were presented that were signed tact those who ab:eady contribu.te by over 400 students who were in to Union College. President Hull favor of the revote including the empb<tsized however that, \It does SewardMemorialasanoption. In not help the institution to dip into addition, the Senior Gift Chairs, unre:stricted funds ~ whatever JenniferCaruso,Karen DeVito, Liz alul1ll1i do must be in addition to Kaier, Andy Markowski and Liz what they normally would do.\ Schmitt were aU present to show Hull explained that although their suppor:t for the revote. UniO'n College tuition is over thir~ Crary's third point, as discussed thousand dollars already, every Cahert Cniry/CP Seniors organize to change the Senior Gift. student receives sorne type ()f •financial aid' from unre- stricted funds because the cost per student per year for the college is forty two thoru· sand dollars. Then, President Hull pre· sen ted Crary with a challenge for the Senior Class, If the seniors vote to peruse ,the .William H. Seward project;ts their Senior Gift then Presi- dent Hull will also contribute. However, his contribution comes with terms. If the senior class can so- . licit one hundred percent par- ipation for the next three years, then President Hull wiH match the amount of money that the senior class donates for the first year. The contri- bution can be as little as oiJe ~-------~------ dollar a year for the next three with President Hull, addr.essed the · issue of fundraising. It was Crary's proposal to \speak to Metroplex sideboards: Schenectady 2000 and other venues for support.,. President Hull was supportive of the fundraising efforts () f this group of students; however, he did e~press concern that the college does not want the Seward Memo- rial fund contributions to detract from the unrestricted fund .contri- butions that the college normally receives. Crary has set up an ac- count with the Finance Office and anyone who is willing to show their support and is a memberofthe fac- ulty or staffis welcome to contrib- ute to this account. Again, it is important to stress years for it to be included in the tally toward one hundred percent participation. Crary emphasized, \The ten dollar contributors are the ones that reaily matter and in the end we will have something tha.t everyone built.\ President Hull agreed to donate his personal money to the William H. Seward memorial because \wee all h<Lve to give back to our com- munities; If by •sticking it to me' the students learn to give, the11 maybe they will get in the habit o.f contril>uting to Union in the fu,- ture.\ President HuH aod Crary have been working closely to try to work this plan <Hit and hopefully it will be underway in the near fa- ture, Trustees Reject Financiai_Aid Budget by Clare Canal Staff Writer In the annual College Boatd sur- vey given to approximately one million High School Seniors taking the SAT's, the number tlrree and four most important reasons that went into deciding what college to attend. was the cost of the institu- tion and the fmancial aid package. UnionCollege~ known for a larger than'average financial aid budget~ had to compromise for $900,000 less than requested in this year's budget approved by the Board of Trustees. The budget for Union College has been a proposal in progress since the fall of this academic year. The Planning and Priorities Com- mittee, cc;>nsisting of adnrinistra- -tion, faculty a11d students, reviews the finances of the college in detail before arriving at the finalbudg:et. In this review, various committees., of the schoCJl will approach Plfln- ning and Pri~rities with their own projected badgets for the upcom- ing year. The Board of Trustees was pl'e- sented with the fmal budget, a sub-, stantial three-ring binder, two weeks priort() their meeting. There- fore, the allotments within the bud- get were ma<le essentially prior to the meeting of the Board and with a great deal of deliberation. There were several pressing is.:: sues that went into this decision. Union has a smaller endowment than many other schools and there are several projects, such as un- dergraduate research, the scholars program, campus wide teclmolo,gi- cal improv.ements and qther fa.;:- tors that dladd up to a budget that is over $80 million a year. This makes it difficult to distribute avail- able funds adequately. Union's endowment, which con- sists of permanent fiu1ds or gifts bestowed on the college, is sub- stantially lower than other institu~ tions of similar academic standing. In a list of the top s.eventy-five endowments of college and univer- sities in the country, Union's en- dowment of$277 niillion is only half of the seventy-fifth highest en- dowment. Harvard is number one at well over 11 billion dollars. This year, more money was drawn from the ,endowment to meet increasing costs. As a result of these increasing costs, the fmancial aid budget re- quested by the fmancial aid depart- ment wasn't entirely met. Accord- ing to Dan Lundquist, Vice Presi- dent for Finance and Admissions, \the $900,000 ifl question is not a cut but the difference between the best case scenario and what was given in the budget.\ In fa.ct, the financial .aid budget is the second largest in Union's overall budget and has actually increased from last year to $17,000,000 in this year's budget. In addition, this $17,000,000 is essentially money that is a 11ocated solely t<>wards scholarship. '\To the extent that we have such a robust financial aid budget helps us move ahead and make Union as affordable as possible,\ com- mented Lundquist. In the ten years that Lundquist has been here, application.s have increased by fifty percent and the quality of the freshmen cla~ses has greatly risen in academic talent. In addition, the overall excetJence of the institution has improved in terms of the enriched educational facilities and superior programs such as undergraduate researc 1t scholar programs and international studies. The decision to pass the budget presented to the Board of Trust- ees was one that was in the best interest of the schooL '\Our Admissions staff is look- ing at options to distribute the ai:d as fairly as possible, while continu~ ing (oQ bring in a strong class. 1 have confidence that they can do, this,\ commented Professor Totm Werner, one of two faculty mem- l>ers on the Board of Trustees. A big; job ofUnion is to recruit excd- lent fature student bodie~, hut an even: bigger task is ensuring the~t they stay once they anive. As lundquist stated, \Onicm isn't perfect but it is definitely far above average and a work in progress.\

. P\age 4 ·• ;March 2~ 2000 ···Qrotu:itthlensis omedtans, One Funny Night by AllysonKohlmann . dians like Jerry Sienfeld, Drew wo StaffWriter Carey, Chris Rock, Brian R~gan, Paul Rodriguez, and Carlos MensiO'. Currently loca.ted in Los Angeles, Ryan has been doing stand up comedy for ei.ght years. He has been voted c.omedian ofthe year by comedy.com and has ap- This past Friday, Febmary 25, at 8 PM in Old Chapel, Union College's Student Activities spon\ sored a live comedy event. Re\ cently, the events at Old Chapel have not had the best tum r-~-~-~---~---~-. out. This Friday, howev:er, there was a crowd of about eighty students and a few professors. The size of the audience \\as a direct result -nf thl' amount of ad\·ertisit!g . that went into the en:nt. Stu- . dent Activities did a great job ' of letting the student body know about the performance. Voice mails were sent, post- ers were hung, and candy was placed in everyone's mailbox. This event proved that it is worthwhile to put a lot of time and effort into the advertis- ing of an event in order to rnake it a success. Before the show, several students were talking about comedy genius Marc Ryan. the hype of this show and -----~~---~~-- whether it would live up to their pearedatplaces likeComedywood expectations. One freshman, Erin Tonite, Comedy Club in New York Clark said, \l expect this to be a City, and the Comedy Connection. funny and fantastic comedy Most recently, Ryan performed show.\ in a club in San Diego in front-of The show started with the jokes 1500 people. Large audiences ofUnion sophomore Mark Shemel. don't scare Ryan. Mark's routine poked~good-hu- In fact he enjoys the challenge me red fun at the daily life of Union of trying to make a lot of people College students. He joked about laugh. Ryan said, however, that he the morning shower and classes as enjoys touring colleges the most well as the dining halls and social- because of the energy the students izing at Union. Shemel pointed out feed him. the quirky lives of the students Ryan had the crowd laughing so that made the audience howl with hard they were howling! After the laughter. show, Ryan told Concordiensis Shemel, a nineteen-year old Eco- that he often draws on real life ex- nomics major, is already making a periences for his work. name for himself. He recently had Growing up in a dysfunctional an audition with Comedy Central, family in the south, Ryan said it was which he will be hearing about easy to find humor in his family's soon. He will also be appearing on life, his college years, and his rela- Good Morning America this sum- tionships. mer. At the rate he is going now, Sophomore Jessica LaVine said Shemel is already tasting success. she enjoyed the jokes about rela- A fter his perfom1ance, Shemel tionships the most, because every- handed the microphone over to one can relate to them. Marc Ryan. Ryan, twenty-eight, is Ryan said that he sees his job as a graduate of louisiana State Uni- an opportunity to point out the versity. He has opened for come- humor in the obvious things in life. Campus: News:·· . 205 Years of Union by Mary Felton Staff Writer This past Thursday marked the 205th anniversary of the grantin,g ofUnion's college charter. A cel'- ebration of this event took place in Union's Memorial Chapel on Feb- ruary 24 at 11:30 AM. The ceremony commenced wit!J. the Academic Procession of Union's faculty, who were dressed in their cer- emonial caps and gowns. b&'·<\·''Jt''''\: They were accompanied by two Union students playing the bagpipes as well as Dianne McMullen, Assistant Professor of Music and College Or-, ganist, who played the or-. gan. Diana Voskoboynik '02 who ben- efited greatly from her time spent in Clarke's Biology classes. Clarke taught her that \hard work is the ingredient for excellence.'' Arthur Piancone was the second recipient, having been nominated by Alexandra Lohse'03. Pian~one; a World History teacher \played the role of a college professor;, [by encouraging] independence,. re- Founder's Day speaker. President Hull presented Spence, a Sterling Professor of History at Yale Uni- versity a!).dan e~perton China~ with an honorary de~ree. ~om in England, Spence at- tended a number -of prestigious in- stitutions such as Clare College, Cambridge University, and Yale where he received his Ph.D. He ha.s . been published many tirnesforhis writing on Chinese history since sixteenth century, ·As a result of his liter- ary accomplishments has received many aWards and recognition such as a Guggen:heim Fellowship and the Los s Tirnes History Professor Byron Spence spoke about Nichols of the Political \Researching China-the Science department gave Past and the Present.\ the opening remarks, to During 1999, Spence which he commented that took leave from Yale to it was a time to \reflect on tudy a treason case, history [and] look onto · which tookplace during new challenges.\ 1728 in China. He men- The welcome address tioned the idea that \per- was given by Union Col- s China's past is lege President Roger Hull lytied in to the cur- who talked about the mer-:- world.\ its of teaching in regards This case took place to the Gideon Hawley aase a Chinese Teacher Recognition schoolteacher wished A wards that were to o-verthrow the em- to High school teachers perm and the dynasty. of now present Union . In researching this case, ~~------~~--\\\\---~------~~--~~~~ College students. Hull President Hull and David Spence discovered that, also said with enthusiasm contrary to the usual Jonathan Spence. that \[Union] is a major in- p11nishment of death to stitution with its best days yet to spo'lisibility and an undying love th0se who committed acts oftrea- come.\ for history.\ son, this teacher was pardoned for In order to receive their awards, Megann Denefrio '03 nominated his crime. The Chinese emperor High School teachers were nomE- her high school American History issued this pardon based on a four- nated for their excellence by Union and Politics teacher Andrew R.ork. point procedure he had the teacher students who had previously been Denefrio described her teacher as undergo. · their students. having \complete student involve- This discovery of Spence's sup- Acting Dean of Faculty Chri~- tnent\ as well as being givmg and ports a comment he made during tina Sorum introduced each recipi- \someone you can always <:ount the beginning ofhis speech, \'His- ent while she read excerpts fronn on.\ torians stu.dy the past to answer the essays the students had writ::- The last high school teac11er to questions about the future. ten regarding these teachers. She be presented was Charlie Tufuill's Spence's address was followed described the award as being given '02 's history teacher, Ann Serow. by the singing ()f the Ode .to Old to \the best teachers,\ those whoo In his.nominationessay, Tutltillex- Union, which the entire assembly were able to arouse a \general ClJ- pressed thanks for Serow's ability took part in, giving a feeling of pride riosity and love for learning [in in, \making [him] more aware and and camaraderie to those present. their students].\ interested in the world we live in.\ The ceremony concluded around The first recipient of this awar-d Following a musical inte1lude~ 12:30 PM with the Recessional of was Assistant Principal William Professor Bruce Reynolds, intro- the faculty ancl Union's newly Clarke. He was nominated by duced Jonathan Spence, Union's honored guests. ADPhi Calls All Writers Write for NewslH Come to our · meetings next term Thursdays in CC303 .. by Hannah Gaw Staff Writer One of Union's fraternities, Al- pha Delta Phi has had its name ap- pear quite frequently lately on cam- pus center sig.ns and in letters passed around by professors and students. Currently, the fraternity is sponsoring its first annual cam- pus-wide literary competition. All students are eligible to enter for a chance to win a large cash sum. There are nonfiction and fiction categories of the contest. Students tna y write short stories which com- ply with each topic. Winners of each catagory will win $200. The grand prize winner will receive $500. Alpha Delta Phi suggested some ideas for writers with mind blocks. For nonfiction stories, pick an is- sue involving history, current events, science and technology, or the arts. Writers who want to ex- plore the field of fiction can decide to write a drama, some poetry, or a The main reason for Alpha Delta Phi's participation in this contest is to promote the philanthropy .of their house, as well as overall aca- .-- ......... ------~------~--~...---,, demics within tlle ''Winners of each catagory will win $200. The grand prize winner will • school. The fra- ternity has also participated in such programs as hosting ·a barbe- cue as well as a . number of other . activities a11d open events. Another rea- . son Alpha Delta Phi is hosting tile receive $500. '' L----------~--------.J literary contest is short story. The entries are due in the early part of spring term. Three printed copies of each work must be sub- mitted as well as a hard copy on a disk. because last year they were placed on social probation. This proba- tion lasts one academic year. Be- cause of this, the fraternity lo~t their house which was located near the main gate. Steve Flaherty, a member ofthe . IntrafratemalCouncil, commented that these fraternity brothers have . been working hard to brirtg them- selves back onto campus. Soon Alpha Delta Phi will petition t() re- gain on-campus stature. Flaherty stressed that Alpha Delta P:hi is a recognized Union fraternity~ but sirnp1y was placed on probati()n for a year. The brothers are working toward moving into Fero House for next year. Fet~o House is cunerttly vacant and is near the gate that opens onto Nott Street. If anyone is interested in partici- pating in the contest, has further questions, or needs tndre inf()tma- tion, . contact Brendan Lofton at 388-'8 138, or e~mail him at loftonb@union.edu. All students are encouraged to enter a piece of theirwork into the contest! Ask for · Brooke ·\Poop- Chute\ ._· . Baryliek. ·I 1:: i t g f \ ( 1: r f s ( \' l ' I t

Cam u~Ne.ws «Lmu:~hlmei~ • Marcil 2, 2000 • Pa e 5 Petals to Fight for a Cure Starry·· Night by KristenZadourian tloors to participate. cancer sometime in life (assuming S iff The MSKCC was founded in she lives to 85·. ).. songs when you move it. ta Writer b L St 1884 and is the world's Qldest and This year 175;000women in the Y ee evens Lights on the Nott Memorial and Petals on a Rose, founded last largest private cancer research in- United States will be diagnosed Staff Writer Bailey field have to be turned off year by JuniorShannonPtyor,suc- stitution. They are devoted to pre- with invasive breast cancer and One .Saturday evening of each on occasion because the they cessfuUy raised one thousand dol'- vention, patient care, research and 43,500 women will die. Breast can.- month, the Union Observatory is shine too brightly. These light<; lars for breast cancer research at education for all types ofcancer. cer is the most col11I11on form of can- 0pen for the campus conununity to disrupt visibility through the tele- Memorial Sloan- cerfor women, andis utilize. Follow the stairs to the top scope. The light bounces off the Kettering Cance the second leading · floor to take a look into the uni- atmospheH:-, causing a disruption Center(MSKCC). causeofcancerdeatb · versethroughUnion'sonemillion in the viewing of the stars. Even Pryer was· forwornen. dollar telescope. the lights in Schenectady cause a by a group of activ- Those who hdped With. this recen.t edition in As- slight disruption when looking ists in her home- out include Alpha trological Science, students and through the lens. Upon looking town. There, a Epsilon Pi, Bronner · professors as well as members of through the telescope one Satur- group of women was House, Chi Psi, Delta . the Schenctady community can day night, Concordi('llsis did not formed to encouni.ge Delta Delta, Gamma stare at stars and try and unlock. think the surrounding lights posed victims of Bre.ast Phi Beta, Kappa . the mysteries of time and space.. a problem. Cancer to fight back Sigma, Minerva The obs crvatory is open to the Everyone is encouraged to take by saving the House, Psi Upsilon, public at various tiNles and the some time to use this expensive money needed for SigmaChi,SigmaPhi, schedule canbeobtainedbyclick- piece ofequipment to check out flowers at their fu- Smith House, Theta ing on tile observatory section on the unknow.n sky. nerals. Instead, the Delta Chi, and West the Union College Physics depart- Bring hats and mittens because money is dona ted :a 11 Miller/ Dormitory. ment home page. The schedule has it can get very cold up on top of for cancer research. The money r{lised in petal sales is going to help out cancer Pryor said, '\The · · been set so student can see the the Olin Center. Astronomy clubs In place of funeral res each in the area. support from the stu- moon in its first quarter. from around the region are often bouquets, enly one dent body and cam.- The 1elescope is only one year present and can answer any ques- siugle pink rose is placed on the Their mission is.\the piogressive pus community was remarkable. old and is continuously being up- tions anyone has about caskettorememberthosewhopa!!t c.ontrolandctlreofcancerthrough Alloftheorganizationsthathelped, graded. lt is now the largest and asstronomy, the sky or the tele- away. Forthisreason,Pryornamed programs ofEJatientcare,research cT~atepetalswere extremelyeriihu- newest in the capital district. scope. her pr<Yject Petals on a Rose. and educatioJl.\ siastic.\ Some seniors have even chosen The observatory will be open The project is sponsored by the Theyh~tve been voted as the top According to Pryor, \Breast can- tousethetelescopeas part of their from 7:30 PM until 9:30 PM on Womens' Union and supported by center in the c-ountry for cancer cer has had a strong impact onrn:y thesis projects. With the telescope March 11. It will also be open from Delta Delta Delta sorority. Pryor care. Furthellllore, statistics con- life and this project is a way offight- you can look at the stars and plaH- 8:30PM to 10:00 PM on April 8 and asked all of the greek organiza- cludethatoneinevecyn:ineAmeri- ingback. Ilookforwardtowork.- ets under a high powered tele- from 9:00FM until10:30 PM on tions, theme houses and dorm can women will devel()p br~ast ing on the project next year.\ sco e which even . la s eerie May 6 and June 10. F!~!!fll!!!!!!n:!:~!.l!~~Ys~£~!l~~t:!.u!~!!!o~ !.~.~ ~~!~he Staf!Writer Unionbecauseit-consistedofboth Hot Chili Peppers \Soul to erful\BabyCaniHoldYou.\ The Beelzebul:Js perfectly, \Not only · · · men and W()men, choreography Squeeze.\ Jamiroqui's\Virtualln- MinstreHes concluded their won- were the [Beelzebubs] awesome What do Union, Tufts, RPI, and what S<Jt.mded like apercus- sanity\ was followed by \London derfulshowwithanaudience-clap- singers, bllt they were amazing Colgate and Williams all have in sion group in the background. The Rain,\ both done with exquisite ping performance of \Higher and entertainers.\ common? The a Cappella groups ente11aimneat continued with The vocals and incredible spirit. Tre' Higher_\ The first skit setup a fantasy ofeachoft:h.~~e.~choolsperformed Dave Matthews Band hits, \Two McC~osk,ey '00 'V;td Samanth.a The Gamet Minstrelles were a highschool scenariowhereadorky in the first Thruway Concert on Step\and \Lie in Our G,raves,\ fol- Savarese '0 1, both from Colgate, great s:egue into Tufts Univ~rsity _guy tried to steal the beautiful girl Saturday, February 26. This three lowed by U2 's \Pride.\ After the stated, ~'This was a great idea ,to Beelzellubs. The thirteen men from the p<Jp~Iarjock through slow hour event, hosted by the Dutch series ofhit s~nngs, the group broke !tave all the groups with a diver- have appeared at various univer- motion scenMios. The skit led right Pipers and Garnet Minstrelles, for a brief acting perfonp.ance to sityofsounds. [The Nott] is a great sities including Harvard, Trinity, into \Bust A Move,\ followed by packed the Nott' s first, second and loosen up the crowd. The acting place to be singing because of hew Georgetown and North Carolina as the second skit which used volun- third floors with spectators. The stint was a pun on the title of the our voices resonated throughotit well as on The Late Show with teer Minstrelle, Ali Struzziero. This Thruway Concert was the brain- cencert, The Thruway Concert, the building.\ David Letterman. Their appear- skit involved Ali doing an interpre- child ofLizKaier, aProgramAssis- with the Rusty Pipes dodging for- Following Colgate was Union's ance was spontaneous and oc- tjve dance, mimicking the dance tant. She contacted many groups eign objects while attempting to own Garnet Minstrelles, whoj>ut curredasapleatoDavidLetterman moves of three of the singers in the Northeast, offering them the sing on a tl:nuway. RPI ended their standing on either side of her. chance to perform in this firsttirhe performance: with \Since You've Finally the concert concluded event.. Originally,. nine groups re- Been Gone\ and \I've Got To Keep with \Freedom\ by U2 and a stand- sponded, but for various reasons On Moving.'\ RyanSpilker,.anRPI ing ovation from the still-packed some had to drop out. The Pro- Rusty Pipe stated, \It's so exciting Nott Memorial. ''This is our sixth gram Assistants are already plan- when such ~ great show comes show of the weekend and by far ning this event for next year, hop- together her~, we all had a great the best and most unique venue ing to make it an annual event. time!\ that we have ever performed in. The evening began at 5:15 PM An eleve11 member, all male Better then the Harvard theater,\ with the Dutch Pipers kicking off group, the SJlringstreeters, caused stated Brad Thurlow '00, Ed Boyer the event. The nine, all male a an uproar. The Williams acappella '03 and Ben Black '01 all from Tufts. cappella group began the night by group bega;n their set with an Following the concert, the women singingthe\AlmaMater followed arousing veTsion of Pearl Jam's ofGammaPhi Beta and their friends by Robbie Olazagasti's solo, \Up \Better Man_\ The Springstreeters got an encore performance from the on the Roof.\ Mike Parisi sang a performed fl.ve other songs, two of Beelzebubs, a night they will never convincing rendition of\Livin' La which were Frank Sinatra's \Lady forget. Vida Loca,\ that left some audience is a Tramp'' ;and \With or Without Following the Thruway Concert, members. wondering if he was re- You\ by U2. Williams singers, Is- a reception was held in Old Chapel ally Ricky Martin. This was fol- rael Mirsky\ OJ, Jamiyl Peters '02, sponsoredl:Jy the lEG where those lowed nicely by Pakk Hui$inging Will Allen '.()2 and BrianKatz '03 interested could purchase CD' s \I'll Walk With You,', and Mark all agreed, '\'[The concert]was a RPI's Rusty Pipes gir\e an exciti11g performance. and talk with the various groups. McKee andMark Werblinsinging great idea held in a beautiful hall. Program Assistant Steve Flaherty \Good Old A Cappella.\ The It was top nlltch, performing with on ()fie of their best performances, when lle taped a series of shows in summarized the evening by stat- Dutch Pipers set concluded with agroupofsi.ngerswithsucharnaz- ex:udingenergy,confidenceandtal- Boston. Duringthewarmup,prior ing, \[The concert] was a perfect Marl: Werblin singing the 80's hit ing talent.\ Long after theirperfor- ent. The Minstrelles happened to to taping, one member of the Bul>s event.\ \Take on Me;' and Robbie mance ende.d, comments from au- be the only all female group 1b:at successfully asked Letterman.ifhe Erin A loan added, \Turnout ex- d1azagasti getting ihe crowd ac- dience members reinforced their night, with thirteen members. The could perform f()r that evening\s ceeded ou:r expectations and no tive ly clapping to \There's a wonderful aJJpearance. Despite the hostesses began their performance guest, Natalie Portman. one was disappointed. I'd like to ChangeinMy Heart.\ absence of their three seniors, they with \Can't Hurry Love\ by Ali The Tufts Beelzebubs began thank all the groups that made this Following the Dutch Pipers per- made an amazing impression on the Fritz and was followed by Ren~e their series of songs with Simon a spectacular event and invite them formance, the RPIRusty Pipes ran audience. Rinaldi's powerful version of The and Garfunkel's. \'Cecilia which to return next year.\ on stage wearing matching out~ Afterab1iteffive-minuteintermis- Cranberries \Can'tBe With Y()u.\ gave lite audience a pretty good Mark McKee, Dutch Piper, fits: overalls and Ted t-shirts. This sion, the shG)w continued -with the Ali Struzziero, Pam Green amd taste of what was to follow. added, \If's great seeing so many fifteen member, co~ed group( eight Colgate Resolutions. The Resolu- Michaela Cautela all contributed to \Cecilia\ was followed by the different schools sing together. All men, seven women) began their set tions are composed of sixteen stu- \For the Longest Time\ followed gigolo song, \I Am 't Got Nobody\ the talent here tonight has showed with a choreographed version of dents, half women, halfmen. Their . by an emotional perforrilance of sang with choreography, energy us what we have to do to improve.\ Madonna's \Beautiful Stranger.\ set began with another Dave \Alone.\ \The Shoop Sho()p and vibrance thathadyetbeen u11- A special thanks goes out to all This group was already different Matthews hit song, \Lover Lay Song\ was happily sung I:Jy matched. Braelin Pantel, Program who attended the event.

Page:& • March 2, 2000 • Clhnttnrlril!rnlit~ Campus News Pass/Fail Policy on Road to Change Fun at the Rink . . . - . - . . ' . few thatthey thought would abuse the privilege.\ This proposal was voted down by the AA C, however. Professor Walker stated that Pass/Fail courses do not exist so that stu- dents may have an easier time in them. \Brooke's proposal was not ac- ceptable t0 some like myself. I find ·it hard t<l believe that students woul dtake two in a term to explore subjects to sample. There would be a ternptation to let the whole term slide,\ he said. Professor Walker also ex. pressed his belief that the two course-per-term proposal would not have passed the faculty as a -whole, and the process would have to start over. Professor Walker did not d0se the door to future ex- pansion of the policy, however. He said that if the changes passed by the AAC are passed by the fac- ulty, and the new system .is a suc- cess, \students can make the case that the college could go one step further and open it up more.\ He made it clear, however, that the AAC 11either guarantees nor elimi- nates the possibiHty for future ex- pamion of the policy. · Professor Schmidt also opposed Bary li(.;k 's proposal. He said that there are probably a few cases where it might be inappropriate to take more than one Pass/Fail course in a term. He added, '·'I would be con- cerned tlmt someone might want to do that in the belief that they \\mild bt: reducing their workload to a pLlllll which is not healthy for then ::>d]L)Iarship. That is to say, you <.bn\t want to step so far back ... continued from page 1 from academics that you lose con- nection with what is hopefuBy the reason you came here in the first place.\ He felt that the policy that was approved seemed to minimize the number of problems that might oc- cur. Professor Schmidt stressed that if there are two classes you want to take Pass/Fail, then good academic planning should make it possible to tgke them in separate terms. Dean Lewis had reservations about the more expansive ehanges as well. He said, \My greatest c.oncern is that I feel some students don't take Pass/Fail seriously.\ He com- mented that he could foresee un- der the rejected policy the possi- bility that someone could have a term free from requirements and could experiment, however it would probably not be a good thing if quite a few people do not have a full load in a term. ProfessorCherrice Traver, Chair- p~rson of the AAC, said, \I voted against this because I think it would add to the already difficult task of motivating seniors in the spring term.\ Senior Danette Slevinski, the Vice President of Academics to the Student Forum, also sits on the AAC. She said, .. I th<'>Ught [Barylick's plan] was an excellent idea. I would have preferred Brooke's plan. I am glad that some- thing was passed, but I don't feel that it is as fn.·e as it can be.\ She explained that she would be pre- sentit1g the plan that was passed to the Student Forum on Wednes- by Lisa Visentin day, March 1, and that the forum · Contributing Writer would then suggest changes that . · ------------ the AAC may choose to accept or . Those who attended the hQckey rejeet before submitting the pro- . · game fticlay night could not have posal to the faculty. :' missed tbe large section of children Kirsch alsosupportedBarylick's . with garnet U's painted on their proposal. He said, \Brooke raised , faces. They enthusiastically a good issue. I think she had a ' cheered on the skating Dutchmen good point.\ ' while ringing cowbells and giving He felt that the failed proposal ·: \high-:fives\ to the players as they would have benefited seniors who '• emerged from the locker room. Fri- are working on their thesis .and , day, February 25, the brothers ·of looking for jobs. · Psi- Upsilon in conjunction with He also coinmented, \[Under the , the Men's Hockey tearn, ho~ted failedproposall you are still taking the annual Union Colleg~ Big three classes at Union, and one · Broth(;)r:s) Big Sisters Hockey you ate being graded on. It gives · Night. you a chance to take classes you ' Over fifty Union College Bigs didn't previously get to take.\ He :. brought their Littles from th~ sur- added, however, \I would like to •. roundint; area to attend the event. see changes made little by little, • Before the game, Schenectady and not an aU or nothing confron- . Littles meet with members of the tation with the administration.\ hockey team at Psi-U. There, the Barylickalsocommented, \I am hockey players discussed the happy that some changes in the , game ofhockey and signed auto- Pass/Fail policy have been made. : graphs while the kids made signs It disappoints me that the faculty · to holdup during the game against were unwilling to amend the prt>- • St. Lawrence in order to show their. posal completely. support_ The LLttles also created \Itshouldn'tbethepolicyofthe ·. posters for the hockey t~am to school to penalize people before sign, m:any of which will end up they have had the opportunity to hanging on the bedroom walls of prove themselves.\ •. the children, a-souvenir of an ex- While there are differing opin- dtJ!g evening. Face paint and arts ions regarding the appropriateness and crafts. were .also provided by of Barylick' s original proposal, the the brothers of Psi-U. · fact remains that the one which After the autographs were passed woulcl allow greater flexibil- signed and the hockey team ity for the student body in taking . ·headed off to their press. confer- courses outside their academic fo- ence, th:e kids e~oyed a deliciou& cus. ·. spaghetti and meatball diMerpro- Students interested in taking vided by the Psi~U chef. After din- Pass/Fail courses should watch for ner; the. kids played games of tag su.bscquent votes regarding tli.e and contint~ed making more signs proposed policy changes. forthegll.111e. Seniors., 1 Hockey night was an opportu- nity for the Littles to meet the hockey players as well as to meet other kids their own. age. The Bigs also benefited fr()m meeting other Unioa,students in the BigBtoth- ers/ Big Sisters program. So()n it was time for the game so all the children headed to Achilles Rink with their Bigs to watch the game. Coach Sneddon ,graciously do- nated tickets to the evening's game; allowing everyone to attend thegameftee ofch~rge. Formany of the Littles, this game was the first sporting event they had ever atte11ded, let alone their first hockey game. The Littles were able to sit :right behind the Union bench and many of the players turned and waved to their cheering fans during the game. Between periods, the kids gathered over the entrance to the' locker room and cheered. They tapped their feet an.d danced in the standsas many of the kids discov- ered the excitement oflive Division ·I college sports. The hockey players approached even the shyest kids, and gave ev- eryone autographs, bringing smjles to thl:lir faces. It was obvi- ous that they genuinely enjoyed spending time with the kids and that they made th.e evenilfg a tntty unforgettable experience for all who attended. Big Brothers/ Big Sisters would like t<J thank both Psi-U and the Men:'s Hock~y team for hosting such a successful event. Psi-U of- fered their beautiful house and the help of their brothers to make the evening a success. free Win_e an_d Cheese (6,.,;,19 II(_ 9-o'''c. chech6·o-£>k~~/ p-/e~•tj;.\/fL~\' ~ Gifl: Co~Tn~l\l\ee a-,zd The Se~ior The Arz,.z.~,al Glvi~g Off~ce L .. l'JJ·clictllJ-' i11tJit-e :JlOU to attend the ... Senior U7ine and Cheese Recepeion Sa~Z6rday .M\e~rch 4, 2000 ar 8:00 P·\'· --- Nott Me~norial--

Page 6 41 March 2, 2000 • Clloncorhitm:~is Campus News Pass/Fail Policy on Road to Change Fun at the Rink Cew that they thought would abuse the pri\'Ilcge.\ This proposal was voted down by the AAC however. Professor \\'alker stated that Pass1F:.1il L·ourses do not exist so th:.1t stu- dents may lla w an eas icr time in thL'Il1. \BmDkt:'s proposal \\GS not a<.:- L·eptable Ill ~orne like myself. I lind It hard to be l!eve that students would take two in a term to explore suh1ecb tu sampll'. Therl' would he a temptation to let the whole terrn ~ hdt..'.\ he saKi. Professor Walker e~lso L'xprL?ssed his belief that the two courst:-per-term proposal \\ot!ld not have pusscd the faculty as a wh(>IL?. and the process would haw to start over. Professor Walker dill not close the door to future ex- pansion of the policy, however. He sa1d that ifthe changes passed by the AAC are passed by the fac- ulty, and the new system is a suc- cess, \students can make the case thut the college could go one step further and open it up more.\ He made it c kar, hmvever, that the ;\i\(' nl' ithcr guarantel'.S nor elimi- nates the pDssihility for future ex- pan~Iun o !'the pohcy. Protl'ssor Schmidt also opposed lhuy!tck':-. propo~al. He ~aid that there an p1ohably e~ few cases '.-\here It !llight he Inappropriate to takL· nwn than nne Pass'F<1il course ll! a term. lit' added. \I would he con- Ct'IIJed that ~Ollll'OIIC t111g1Jt \\i1!l( tn do that in the hl'I!L'f that they \\ uuld he reducing their workload lt' a p{1\i1l \hH:h 1.., not healthy fm tht'JI ..,cJiular-.hlp. lhtt .-; to s3y, ) nu don't 1\ ant tn st...-p so far hack ... continued from page 1 from academics that you lose con- nection with what is hopefully the reason you came here in the first place.\ lie felt that the policy that was approved seemed to minimize the number of problems that might oc- cur. Professor Schmidt stressed that if there an~ t\VO classes you want to take Pass Fail, then good academic planning should make it possible to take them 1 n separate tem1s. Dean Lcvvis had resen Jtwns about the more eKpansiw.: hangcs as well. lie said, \My grc:.1test. concem is that I feel some students don't take Pass/Fail seriously.\ He com- mented that he could foresee un- der the rejected policy the possi- bility that someone could have a term free from requirements and could experiment, however it would probably not be a good thing if quite a few people do not have a full load in a term. ProfessorCherrice Traver, Chair- person of the AAC, said, \I voted against this because I think it would add to the already difficult task of motivating seniors in the spring term.\ Senim Danette Slevinski. the Vice President of Academics to the Student Forum, also sits on the AAC. She said, .. 1 thought [Barylick'splan] was an excellent Idt'3. [ would h;ne preferred Brooke's plan. I am glad that some- day, March I, and that the fmum would then suggest changes thilt the AAC may choose to accept or reject before submitting the p:ro- posal to the faculty. Kirsch illso supporfed Barylick' s proposal. He said, \'Brooke raised a good issue. I think she had a good point.\ He felt that the failed prop0;sal would have benefited seniors who are wurl{ing on their thesis ilnd looking forjobs. He also commented, \[Under tlte failed proposal] you are still taking three classes at Union, and one you are ~eing graded on. It gives you a chance to take classes y()u didn't previously get to take.\ He added, h()wever, \I would like to see changes made little by little, and not an all or nothing confron- tation with the administration.'' Barylic k also commented, \I am happy that some changes in the Pass/Fail policy have been made. It disappoints me that the faculty were unwilling to amend the pro- posal completely. \It shouldn't be the policy of the school t<P penalize people before they have had the opportunity to prove themselves.\ While there are differing opin- ions regarding the appropriateness ofBarylick's original proposal, the (act remains that the one wllich passed woald allow greater flexi:bil- ity for the student body in talcing courses outside their academic fo- thing \\as passed, hut I don't feel cus. that 11 is as frL·e as it can be.\ She Students interested in tak.ing e'.plamcd that sht.: would bt.: pre- Pass'Fail courses should watcht for scnting the plan that was passed subsequent votes regarding the to thl\ Student Fomrn on Wednes- proposed policy changes. ---~~ Seniors 1 a s by Lisa. Visentin Contribu!ing Writer Those who attended the hockey game Friday nigat could not have missed the large section ofchild.ren with garnet U's painted on their faces. They enthusiastically cheered on the skating Dutchmen while ringing cowbells and giving \high-fives\ to ihe players as they emerged from the locker room. Fri- day, February 25, the brothers of Psi-Upsilon in conjunction with the Men's Hockey team, hosted the annual Union College Big Brothers/ Big Sisters Hockey Night. Over fifty UEion College Bigs brought their Littles from th~ sur- rounding area to attend the event. Before the gam.e. Schenectady Littles meet witl1 members of the hockey team at P'si-U. There, the hockey players discussed the game of hockey and signed auto- graphs while the kids n1ade signs to hold up during the game against St. Lawrence in o:rder to show their support. The Littles also created posters for the hockey t~am to sign, many of which will end up hanging on the bedroom walls of the children, a souvenir of an ex- citing evening. Face paint and arts and crafts were also provided by the brothers of Psi-U. After the autographs were signed and the hockey team headed off to their press confer- ence, the kids enjoyed a delicious spaghetti and meatball dinner pro- vided by the Psi-U chef. After din- ner. the kids played games of tag and continued making more signs for the game. Hockey night was an opportu- nity for the Littles l!o meet the hockey players as welt as to meet other kids their own age. The Bigs also benefited from meeting other Union. students in the Big Broth- ers/ Big Sisters program. Soon it was time for the game so all the children headed to Achilles Rink with their Bigs to watch the game. Coach Sneddon graciously do- nated tickets to the evening '.s game, allowing everyone to attend the game free of charge. For many of the Littles, this game was the first sporting event they had ever attended, let alone their first hockey game. The Littles were able to sit right behind the Union bench and many of the players turned and waved to their cheering fans during the game. Between periods, the kids gathered over the entrance to the locker room and cheered. They tapped their feet and dilnced in the stands as many of the kids discov- ered the excitement oflive Division I college sports. The hockey players approached even the shyest kids, and gave ev- eryone autographs, bringing smiles to their faces. It was obvi- ous that they genuinely enjoyed spending time with the kids and that they made the evening a truly unforgettable experience for all who attended. Big Brothers/ Big Sisters would like to thank both Psi-U and the Men's Hockey team for hosting such a successful event. Psi-U of- fered their beautiful house and the help of their brothers to make the evenmg a success. '7 7 /Je Se~Zior Gifr CornnziL-t-ee a'I'Zd TIJe Arz~ual GLvi~~;g O.ffice iJZt.Jite ·J'lJll· ll> cttten.£\1 the ... Senior lVine and Cheese Recepeion Se1rz~rday M'arch 4~ 2000 ezr 8:00 p.rrJ. - ~ JV<Jt t Jlle111 CJ1·ictl-- ' I I ' t

Flights for Airtech Mexico/Caribean or Central America $229 Round- Trip Europe $169 One-Way Other ·Worldwide destinations CHEAP! ONLY TERRORISTS GET YOU THERE CHEAPER! Book tickets on-line at www.airtech.com o.r 212-219-7000 ~ )·1··>1\ .. _ • . t '1 ~ UNION t.:Ot,Ll\'<itJ . C.'anrt.?r Dt>t>dopm<'ll t . - -~~rJ.f~L ... .. CDC Upda.t:.es --. ~Q:..:h .. ~l.t .. th~ c uc!!! Need a camp.usjob next yeur? Corne: wo.rk fot· the C't:»C'. Anyone intercst.c:d should submit. ;.tn application to Sh\'lly Shinc:h•u·gc-r·. Assistant I:>irector._ Deadline fur <.::anuidalcs is Friduy. Apr-il l4tll by 5-pm. We pt·ovide u•ai·ning und cJ~Ccellent work cxpc•·icncc. An abi]ity to be a team playct·, strong work ethic. and a go< . .ld scns'-' or hun~or is Tcequired.- Resymv Ueacli!ines (see CDC £or details> .3/3.100: I.-depen.den~ Educational Services .. \leachc:rs nt c rns, und Adrninistrution posi tio.n::> avui lablc. All rn.ajot·s rnuy upp ly. 3/3100: Alb111ny 1\-l:olecuJar Research,. Inc., Hcscan.::h Chemist <.tnd Seni.ot· Re:sean:h Chemist· positions available. c~hcrnistz·y n-.\'jor· required. 3/3100: DoLly Ga.zeae~ s-pring terrn lnten:lshir\s a vui lahlc. 3/4100:. GI<.: l~o ... ve:r Sy:ste.:ns.IFIVIP, Finunci.ul Manugc1ncnt Program f'or Economics. Math. Accounting. Applied 'Math •••1d othcxs interes:ted in finance and accounting. 3/10.100; MaLhe.ua'ti~a,. Research Assistant and Progran-.otcr pt.-,sic.ions available f'or Economics, Math, and Soo;;iology majors. 3/10.100: lVIot.orola .. El~cu·iea1 Engineering positions. 3/10.100: IBM.fl\oughkeepsie Software Engineer and 1-Iard\~Mare Engineer positions uv••il.ablc for CS, EE, and Muth majors. 3/17.100: Fl~ld School, Teaching posilk>ns availublc. Biology. English. Math, Science, a.nd History rnajo.-s.

• 0 ' • • • T 0 \ ' : 0 :... • • : Mexico/Caribean or Central America $229 Round- Trip Europe $169 One-Way Other Worldwide destinations CHEAP! ONLY TERRORISTS GET YOU THERE CHEAPER! Book tickets on-line at www.airtech.com or 212-219-7000 l !o..llt•N ~ t)t !It .1 c:·,,n•(·r \··~-: C:c:>C Upda.t:es .. -. '\Y~!I\K. Hl th~:U( '!!! Ncer.J a <.:an1pus job n<:\-t y<.·.tu·'.' ( '<>nK' vvn.-k f<>a· the C 'I><· ... ...,. .. ..,.<>Ill' intcn~st.::d should suh1nit un appl•.callon t<> Sh<.·lly Slnn<.·l>.tll g .. :,, r\\.ss.istunt i.::>in.:o.::t<H •. Dcadlint.· J\oJ\ c.t,.c.Jidate,., '\ l'1 1day, \'-.ptll 1·1-th by 5pn•. VVc pt·ovHJc u·aining .and excellent vvo•·k \\P'-'' ''-\11<\-<.' '''' ubi lily to be a tcan1 play..:·•·. stt·ong. vvot·k ethic. and a gnud !'-.C\II\'-\ of\ hurn<.>r is J'cq ui red. H.esnnu: U«..•udlines (st.~e CO(~ Cor d·Nn.iJ,..> 3/_'lo/()0: Independent l~:ducutional S<t.>rvices. \1\:a...:hcn·; unLi A<.hn.inisln.Ltion post lions avntlo.ablc. i\\.11 tnajnn-; 1nay <~pply. 3/3/nO: Alhuny Molccula.•· l..f.cs-curch. Inc .• Rc::.can:h < \lH.'Zntst :tnd Senior Rc,.. ... , •• rch c:-:hcJTllSI positions available. (.'ht:llll,..lly lllH.J<>I\ •·cquin:::d. 3/.3/00: L:Jaily c;~_,zette, sp.-ing tCITil Jntern><hi ps :tVUilal>le. 3/4/00: (;1....: l\o. Syste•.ns/FIVIP, Finunei~d Manag.<..'nlCJll Progn.un ror EC<.)IlOITii..:.s, Math. A<.:...:<>tHHing, Apphcd Math and ut.hcrs interested in t\inancc un<.l. accounting. 3/1{)/00: .rvluthcrnaticu, Rc:scar<..:h Assistant and Pn>!\·'·\tn>n•e•· p<.:>s.ition.s uvuilublc fur· Ecunornh:s, Mat.h. :and So ... ·iol<>g) rn.<J<>r·s. 3/1()/00: ~otorola. Blc<..'t•·icui Engineering positions. 3/l()/00: JRM/I\'oughk.c~psie S-oft'VVarc BngJ nccr an <.I I hndV~ar·c f~ngineer p-osit.ions uvaiiablc fo.- CS. EE. and Matl1 uut.Jon;. 3/1'7/00: 1-'ield School. Tc.uching position'> ~•vai lahk·. Biology. English. Muth. Science, nnd History n\lajors. we would like to invife you, our future coliea8ues, to Join us as we ftLJht one of the LJreatest yubltc health battles in medical history: the fight agatnst smoktng, the yrtmary cause of yreventable death in the United States. come hear Davtd H. Mulligan, former commissioner of Massachusetts neyartment of Public Health, talk about his state's af]ressive anti-tobacco efforts, and learn what you can do . to he~ the local crusade. Thursday,~ MArch 2 at 8 P.M. ~ ' ~ . ·• •· R.ea:mer . c . . ·.·. ·. ··· · .. ··.·.· c.enter AJI.dttortum ' '

Page 8.· March 2, 2000 • Olmu.a:cmen9i~ Stones Left.Unturned Time passes quicker than one thinks. We are under the impression that we will always have tomorrow, next week, next month, next year. Most live by the motto, \Don't do today what you can do tomorrow.\ Days and weeks go by, sometimes without an ackmowledgement oftheir · significance. These are the times when optimal opp{)rtunities most likely passed us by. Reflecting back upon our years at Union College, and· more specifically, on our time as Editors-in-Chief, we wonder how many days passed us by. As newspaper edit4<Jl·s we ·have the ability to vocalize our thoughts · and opinions. We cal'ldescribe historic events, so-und off about irritat- · ing campus occurren<:es or describe the details O>f a winning sporting event. The pages oft'.he newspaper are a blank can'Vas that we can fill with purposeful art ides in the hopes that they win! be not only read by ' the campus community but also digested and coniemplated as well. Looking back on editorials and opinion pieces, we feel that some stones have been left untumed. For that reason, we opted to write our last editorial as Editors-in-Chief about some issues that should be dis- cussed among the campus community and corrected:. First, the DailyJolt has evolved into a Web site on which unsuspect- mg individuals and organizations are criticized by contributors who feel free to write obscene and derogatory comments about their peers but are unable to own up ;to these comments. Although this site began as a b<.!nefictal tool for Urlion students, it has been abmsed and manipulated. , This behavior is immature, inconsiderate and unacceptable at a college . of prestige such as U11ion. We hope that these cruel and puerile actions will soon stop. As adults and college students, we should not endure verbal attacks on a forum that conveniently allows the perpetrators to submit anonymous criticisms. Our second issue deals with the apathy that has engulfed this cam- pus. Every weekend countless students complairu about the lack of so- cial options. Yet, when the Student Activities offke or the Progran1 As- sistants plan events most are poorly attended. Furthermore, when changes to the social life are proposed students immediately tum them down but do not off-er constructive criticism to better the system. As studl\nts of this colle;ge, we need to support each other in endeavors to better the social environment. Everyone hopes to enjoy their college years, thus we should praise those who make this possible and support those who spend their time and effort to organize events. Another issue we vrant to address concerns those who find fault with the college. We urge. you to shaFe these concems with pr.ofessOis, ad- ministrators and other students. Union College is not perfect, therefore we are responsible f()r making it a better institutio11. Each student should utilize the resources available. Changes cannot ha-ppen without the ideas and efforts of dedicated individuals. Each of you has the power to ·im- prove this school as well as the world around you. It is a shame fhat we do not exercise this privilege to its full extent. During our tenure- a:s Editors we have learnecl not to take no for an answer because there is always another option and another avenue to explore. Our purpose in mentioning this is to illustrate that you can make a d1tlerence. We are simply indicating that everyone has the power to make a difference in the world. We are gifted, young, b1·igh.t individuals. Our thoughts and. ideas matter. Our voices can be l1eard if we emp by the various alternatives available to us. How many opporilunities did we miss as Edit()rs? How many did we miss as the Class of 2000? How many did we miss as Generation X'? Personally, we would hate to look back upon our time as Editors-in-Chief knowing that we wue ineffective in our task of enlightening the campus OP/ED A Tribute to Brooke an by Michael S. Ml':Gllire Copy Editor 'This issue marks the last that Dave Brooks and Brooke Barylick will preside over as Editors-in-Chief of Concordiensis. I feel as though the campus does not appreciate how important they are and how hard they have worked during the past three terms. They are two wonderful. dedicated pe@!ple. Last Spring, with Bro()ke away in Washington, D.C. for the term, Dave had to make the transition from Sports Editor to Editor-in- Chief alone. He did anex.cellent job,. and the paper ran smoothLy despite several controversial incidents in- cluding the reporting of Sigma Delta Tau's alleged hazing of pledges, and the resulting actions taken by th.e administration. It is hard to place yourself in such a position as he was in, with no one to stand by you in your decision to take such a bold step and run ihe story. He did; however, and as a result Concordy had one ()f its most powerful and popular issues. she assume the role Qf co-Editor- in-Chieffor the first time, but she also was forced to manage the News section while our News Edi- tor, Jessica Zuehlke, was on term abroad ·i.n France. The News sec- tion is perhaps the most difficult to coordinate and its editor often has a greatdeal of press:ure placed on him or herbecause ofits promi- nent location in the newspaper. Brooke handled both tasks admi- rably. especially l.n the face o.fthe Student Forum Elections contro- versy. ries in favor ·Of more mundane ar- ticles. The integrity that Dave .and Brooke have broughtto Concordi- ensis and the responsibility which they took for all that was published would not allow them to do S(), howe'Ver. Instead, we were able to inform the campus of what tile fate of Phi Gamma Delta truly is, and also to dispel the rumors about Kappa Sigma. The students· of Union College should be grateful for Dave and Brooke's leadership O'Ver the past three terms. They made far-reach- ing improvements to Concordien- sis, and leave behind a legacy of honot, dignity and respect that of which its staff can be proud, and which the members of the ed.itorial staff will all look back fondly upon as some of our greatest times at Union College. community. We have made our best effort at providing breaking news coo~~wifuawe~pro~c~~w~~er.Fromfu~~~rieoc~weh~e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ learned that we nee.d to take advantage of each day and the sitt.tations v·. e.g· et· ·a. rl· an n· 1 • et .. Lent 2 0 0 0 In the Fall i_t was Brooke's tum to go beyond the nom1al require- ments oftheposition. N()tonly did Finally, this term seemed as though. it would be Bmoke and Dave '.s opportunity to take it easy, Our News Editor was back, and both Editors-in-Chief were here to run the paper. Things would not be so easy, however, and Concor- diensis was presented with two controversial stories in th.e final three weeks of the term: Fiji's na- tional organization declared that the Union chapter would go dry, and rumors ran rampant across Union's campus that Kappa Sigma was merging with the fmmer broth- ers· ofDelta Upsilon and Beta Theta Pi. .It would ha:ve been easy for two seniors in their last terms in charge of the newspaper to skip the sto- Working on Concordy withDave and Brooke has been fun at times and trying at others, and though T may not have agreed with all that they have done there is one thing about working with them that is undeniable: it has been a truly re- warding experience and tal!ght me a great deal which I will carry witlt me in all my future journalistic en- deavors. that they present. We hope that you wilt do the same. A lvf~ Fv-0111.1 BMB&DMB· S~Spetee/ LetterPolicy&61$c*~~~; ·>~~--~ . . . - : · .. . _:~.'-< . ., .. ·.,-,·0·\:''_1 Leiter~S.to the Mitorshouldh~ad_cltes~e~itothiO~IEO,;paic and must pe r~celvedby~ PMJ;he ¥~i?.d~y]?~fqr~p~bli~~t~~~~ Letters must be lessthan.SOO :words a.nd $hould p¢rtaioto· an . - : . ' ' . . . '. ~ . ' .· . . - .· . . --. .: - -./ :'-; . ' - .. issue that o.Onoern:s:the U:hiowC~lleg~ cormuumty .. · · .. . :;· '· 1 ,·. · , .·.· .. ' Final decisionS ooh~eriliilgprinting aridlorediting.astil?niissi~if belong to the EditvrlaH3oatd;< All leiters mustbesigned' (ih.<)ugli requests for an~tiYJ.P()US p\Jblication may be sonsio~ie~by'tll~ editors) and saved ~n a high;(le~sitydlsk. t~tteis d() riot:n()6e's.: . sarilyreflectthe()pinionoftbe Ed.itorialBo~rd. .· .· · . · ... ··. , Editorialsteflee;'tthe opif!ionof~ rnajo:ii~oftbe Eqito~al :~6~ and of no one member it{ particular. Any bp:irtibii colUiinlS- o:l-¢ar .. toons reflecttheop.inions of thewrl~s ·orartis$,and notn-~ce.s\\ sarilytheopinionioftheE(iitori~i'Bqf:lid~ ·· . '·' ~ .. ' .·' · . ·, . :· · \ ' •: Advertisements. appearing·in Coru:ordlensisdi> not :rie~essat~ ily reflect the opinions ofthe Editori.aJ Board. . · : .: · .• '.:. •.·. ·. : · .... · · .. · Concordiensis i~ptintedby S~fl1el(l·pii~~nt,750.Piet(f~;R9ac;l; Clifton Park, NY, .12065. · · · · · .... What you can d() to help protect yourself from rape and sexual assault: Tip#2: STAYWITHFRIENDS · 1. Have one of your friends agree to stay sober when you . go to parties or bars. . 2. Check up on each other • from time to time. 3. Do NOT leave a bar or party alone or with someone you just met. ·If you need help, call the Safe Space beeper at its· NEW number: (518) 349-4629 8th March 2000- 23rd A pril2000 . Lent 2<1'00 provides Christians with. .a. fitting opportunity to give up meat in recognition ofChrist's 40 day fast in the wilderness, whilst simultaneously experiencing the health benefits. of a vegetarian diet. . This opportunity is open to all Christians who feel moved to offer Jesus Christ; the Lamb of God, tan- gible thanks during the Millen- nium. What better way to offer thanks to Christ than to emulate His boundless t~ercy and compas- sion? It's so easy and yet the ef- fect is so significant. By saying no to the slaughterhouse and yes to the Lamb of God, we not only spare countless innocentsouls im- mense suffering, we gain greater · physical and spiritual well-being too. Standing firmly against cruelty, vegetarianism provides Christians with the practical means of fulfill- ·ingChrist's call for greater mercy and compassion. Christ, the Lan1b of God, brings us a new kind <Jf flesh and a new kind of blood_ Christ offers us His flesh and His biood; the flesh and bloodofself- sacrifice and Perfect Love. Chris:.. tians are duty~bound not f(i) cor- rupt the sacred flesh and blood .()f Jesus Christ with the flesh and blood of cruelty and violence. We canlive·healthy lives withoutper- petuating the horrors of the meat industry. At the dawn ofthinevv Millennium let's bring Isaiah's vi- sion of Christ's peaceable king- dom, where the wolf dwells'with ·the lamb and all creation lives in harmony, a step closer. Let us .say no to the slaughterhouse .and yes to the Lamb of God, Jesus Christ. Further information http:// www. vege-consciousness. co. ul< Anthony Neesham OI -. -.-· - - ] Se unw1 duct tion impl emp! most will beha of .p~ old 1 rupt: of 01 cred· they beha This dan~ tion Tl arti' Dea1 men tend any to il De a gres rors men R tain pou sho1 for Sch and list· like dee WOl pus I ar pm; beh sec' Sch hal~ tha1 gan Jon to 1 l Da wb tO! an: Ur pel eel in: co se1 sci thl m: so ou pl~ M vi, jo w~ th tu A st: fa VI e1 w li1 tb

OP/ED ar.mttndri.ettsbs • March 2, 2000 · Page 9 Fraternity Pledges Labeled as College Criminals Sexual harassment is ·defined liS unwanted verbal or physical coli- duct when sl::ibrnission to/or rejec, tion of this ·<Jon duct explicitly or implicitly affect's an individual's employment_ The psychology oo most sexual h~rassers is that th~:y will not be a<lmonis'hed for this behavior because ef their position of power. Vl~ have all heard the old maxim; \absolute power cot. rupts absollltel:y\. . Recently one of our fine Dems lent this maxim credibility. A person who feels.that they will notbe: punished for their behavior is a.liangerous individual. This person becomes even more dangerous· when placed in a posi- tion ofauthority. Throu.gbout the cbarse of this . article an atTalogy between a Dean's actions and sexual harass- ment will be ,d.1awn. T:his is not in• tended tQ in1plicate this Dean in any form ·of sex:ual harassment but to illustrate the: fact that what the Dean has doll.e is a serious trans- gression at1d in many aspects mir- rors the act of this type of harass. ment withol!t 1lte sexual overtones. Recently ilie president of a cer'\ tain fraternity- house made an ap- pointmetlt witll Dean Schutick to show her a list of potential pledges for their hollse this year. Dean Schmick toolc one look at this list and said that every name on this list was a co !lege criminal. I would like to start ily saying that I am deeply offertded that any Dean would call any student en this cam- pus acollegecriminal to begin with. I am even rnor~ offended that a,p- pmximately tllitty people were 1 a~ beled criminals in less than thirty seconds. 'Jbe reason that Dean Schurick sa:id this was that about half of these names were people that were a.ss()ciated with the or- ganizations tllat were Delta Upsi- lon and Beta Theta Pi. This leacds to my t\VO 'fl'lajor problems with what Dean Schurick has saig and done since making the previous colnment. First (.and maybe less important but more personal) i.s that as a former member ofone of these ,or- ganizations I am extremely in- censed with the fact that even· though I have done n<>tlling wron.g d.urin.g my college car~er here at Union, Dean Schurick would have · no problem la.b~hpg.mea crim~naJ. I am surprised that Union co11,ld he soquick to label a stu <lent who was a fuH double major ia Biology and Economics and was . .accepted into , the Graduate Management. In.sti· tute a criminal. It sp-eaks voLumes fot th.is scho()l that .they would al- low a person so detrimental to this institution thatthey calll!im aerimi- naL, to not <Jnly graduate, but al- low him to attend grad.uate s<:hool here as well Now I r...m sure that Dean Schurick would ~and ho.pe- fully will) apologize to a number of the st\ldents that she labeled after she carefully re-evaluates tile list and realizes that they are not only very go<Jd students but outstand· ing citizens as. well, l:Jut when will she be held ACCOUNTABLE for sayi-ng things ofthis nature? If she were the CEO of a \:ompany and she made a derogat()ry ster<;!otypi- cal statement about a woup of its constituents she wot1ld be fired ot fon::ed to resign. It is not likely th.at Dean Sch urick will even be repri- manded for her undeserved de- rogatory statement about this small group of people. My second and more important point is that Dean Scillni-ck told the president of the fraternity that if these people were allowed to pledge then the fraternity would lose its housing andhs chart~rwhh the school. This is where we re- turn to the original a11alogy with sexual harassment. This fraternE~y must comply with tllis illegal or at the very least unethical ttlemand ot its \employrnellt\ with the school will he :terminated. It m~y seem like criminiJJs. Dean Schurick was irresponsible and unprofessional for calling any of the students at this institution a criminal. l would just like to see that she be held accountable like every other respons,ible persoil worki·ng in this country. A11 apology and an agreement to give this group of guys the same rights that everyone else on this campus doesn't have to beg for is all that f1 ask. I understa:nd that to mostl: people this does not seem like ~ big deal, but every time a small injustice goes unpunished it paves the way for a larger one to take place. Hitler didn't start by declaring war on the world but by attacking much smaller parts of society. He grew in power because .people didn't ,care as long as it wasn't happening to them. Those of you reading this may not care much about this small group of p.e~ple who are being treated unjustly. Maybe the school has yet to take away any of yoUT choices, but i.f you wait around long enough without doing anything and sooner or later you will end. up on the wrong side of DeanSchurick's agenda and mayb.e you will be the next one she label:s a criminaL Please voice your opinion and try to be heard. Writer's note: This article wa:s actually written f<Jr the last week's issue of the Concmdiensis. I did not submit the a:rti c1e because the president of the house mention.ed in the article called me and asked me not to. He said that he completely agreedv;ith me and that he was equally angry by what happened but was afraid of what printing the artiCle would mean for his house. Out of respect for his house's wishes, I did not submit it. I am submitting it now for two reasons. Most important'ly because this President sold out and was quoted In last week's Concordiensis as saying that the reason that the sophomores weren't given bicls was because their records were 11ot clean. This is not only untrue hut lend-s credence to Dean Schurick's response that the list she was given was a bunch ofcrirn1nals. Second, other brothers in the house mentioned urged me to publish my article. On a final note I hope that the President realizes that not only was he spineless in the way he managed the en tire situation but that he has now s.et up his house to be run by the school. Everytime the school wants something done by the house, it knows that all it needs to do is th\eaten them. Raj Chilakapati I am watering the whole issue down but this not the case. 'The fact is that tile school is now determining who <:an and <:annot pledge a fra- ternity. Now the school may say that they ru:e Jt~st trying to remove the bad element from the system (mucllli'ke when they decided this summer t:hat they can re.gulate what (){ganizations stu<lents may parti cip~te in outside of the schodl); bt:1t Dean Alford told me that tlli:J is not the case. l met w.ith Dean ~]fred fall term t<J see if there vv:as anything we as a h<Juse could do t<> get baek in~o go()d standing with tlie school. I argued that the guys now hadn't done anything wrong and that they sh:ouldn't be punished for things that happened when they weren't here, If these guys were just given the chance to sh<Jw th:e sclloo1 that they could be vesponsible members .of a fra- ternity they could be valuable mem- bers @f the fraternal community. Dean Alford explained that it wasn't in his hands but he be- lieve<! that what I was saying C()u1d very well be the truth. These guys are not officially a part of any fra- ternal: otgani2lation (we wl;)re not recognize-d by the school or the nation.al when they pledged our house) an-d should be allowed to join any fraternity that they wish as long as the fraternity desires ' Founders Day Thank Y ous their merebersllip as well. On top Editors, Concordiensis: them all, and got very good re- sp()nses. Particula.r thanks should go to AEPi, Chi Psi, Gamma Phi Beta, Phi Delta Theta and Sig Phi; and among Theme Houses, Smith, Symposium amf (of course!) Thurston House were well-repre- sented in Memoria 1 Chapel. Sincerly, Brmce L. Reynolds Director, Easi Asian Studies of the fact that the fraternity is be- During the week leading up to ing stro 11 g-armed into0 not taking the Founaers Day ceremony, thee these sophomores in as pledges, faculty were beating the bushest() als0 on that list were the names of increase student participation iii ten t~ fifteen freshmen. Of these . that event. l' was delighted to see freshman <ml~ one is on academic the large turnout on Thursday, and warning and the combined GPA of I'd like publicly to commend the the freshman is above a. 3.0. Most good citizenship of our R.A. staff, of these freshmen have either never the Greek organizations, and the seen or never heard of Dean Theme Houses. We appealed to SChurick yet she has called them 1-------------=~-------------::;::;;:::--- Happy 205th Birthday~ Union! ([.oncnrb~inSiS The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper http://concordy.u111ion.edu · by .fulthy DelSavio Con1ributing Writer February :24 marked Founders Day here at Union College, in which fac11lty and .students go-t together to celebrate the 20 5rh annivetsatr of the granting of Union's ch~er. The day was a perfect opp()rtunity for students to celebrate a:nd be proud of our ftne institution_ Aside Jrom the confusion ()Ver classes being in session or n()t, a proud sense ()f school s:pait could be felt among the stud.ell;t oody .. As I was \;l\lalking to the service, my attenti.()n was captured by 1h.e sound of b:agpipers verformillg outside ofMemorial Chapel, com- plete with authentic liish attire. Many :peo)lle assembled outside to view their ,J)erfonnance and to en- joy theun11s1Lal spring weather we werehaviilgthat day. As I entered the chapel, I was amazed to see the turnout of students and fac11lty. As we all t()ol<: our seats, the organ startedto wiay and a procession of facultyrnennbers, complete in their very own :F()unders Day robes, entered the: chapel. The way in which the fa.culty members were lined up 1\Vo .. by-two, along Wi1h their ceretnonial robes ~nd hats, reminded me so m11ch of my high school .graduation ce1emony not too long ago. It br<Jught to me a sense of pride, and 1he realization that I had gotten so far in life and had accomplished so much, and tllat I was now attending .such a great institution as Union College. Finally; theceremonybeganand speeches were given honoting the history of the college. Those giv- ing speec:hes were: Roger Hull, Union's President,.M:ichael Winn, Student Forum president, Theres.e McCarty, :Professor.aJl.d Chairper- son of Economics, and finally David Chapnick, Chairman of the Roard ofTrustees. Next, four can- didates were presented the GideQin llawley A ward~ given to outstand- ing teachers. The awards were pre- sen ted by ChristiiiaS.orum, t1cting Deanofth.efaculty. The fomttomi- ilees were:WiUiamCiarke, Arthur ?iancone, Andrew :Rorlc, an:d Anne Serow .. This section of the cer- emony was particularly interesting because the four award winners were nominatedbysCJme ofUnion College's very own students. Upon .presentation ()t the awards, the nominees, al()ng with the stu- dents who nominated them, were invited u:p on stag;e.. A sh()rt de- scription was given about ,the in- dividual teachers a11d their su.c~ cesses at strengthening the bond between teachers ·and students. This vras very intere&ting to me, becau.se it let me realize how strong of an impact certain teachers can havt: on our views of education, as well as life itself. They can in tum irnpa.ch111' motivation and how well we wantto succeed in college- · I am ~are that everyliody reading this can seriously tllink back to higll school and one teacher al- ways sticks out in our minds, who has hac! a huge impacton our learn- ing_ . Af1et this, the audience was treated t<> three song excerpts by · the Union Cotlege Choir, under the . direction .of Diane McMullen Two wonderful solos werepe:rfonned by . Mru:k WerbleandErinZaricki Next Jonathan Spence, our candidate for Honorary De-gree, treated the au- dience .to-a wonderfUl speech. Fi- nally, th.e ceremony was fmished .off with the audience'~ participa- tionin the singing ofUnion's very own AlmaMater. I think tbis event was a great opJlorttlnity for students t() get in- volv~d first-hand with the school and 1() learn a little about its his- tory. Most importantly, it gave us an opp()rtunity to feel a sense of sch{)ol spirit and pride, which is often only felt at football games. Brooke M. Barylick- David C. Brooks, Jr. EDITOR.S-IN-CHIEF Jessie a Zuehlke NEWS EDITOR Katrina. Tentor OPINIONS EDITOR Bri:an Terlinsky Rachel Bukowski SPORTS EDITORS Lori Greene Kimberly R(}hback A&EEDITORS Kaelyn South . PROMOTIONAL MANAGER Sloan Miller Aaron Seliger PHOTO EDITORS Jaime Chandler EXECUTIVE EDITOR Jason Putorti WEB MASTER Eugene Schultz FEATURES ED!TOR Sl(}an Miller SCiENCE & TECH EDITOR Neil Routman WORLD NEWS EDfTOR MichaelS. McG11ire COPY EDITOR Danielle Devine Amanda Jackson ADVERTISEMEWT COORDJNATOF.S Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVl!;OR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Calvert Cnary, Elizabeth Daigle, Megann Denefrio, Katie Hais, Katie James, Dave 1\1 eguerdic:hian. STAFF: Matt Aronowitz, Steve Ayers; Jessica Brearton, Beth Brogan, Gina Campanella, Claire Canal, Miebaela Cautela, IJ~all Centi, Meridith Chace, Philip Cho, Laura Cotto11, Jim DeWan, Kristina Dorne, Mary Felto11, Fra11k Filiciotto, Stephe11 Flaherty, Hannah Gmw, David Gruner, Derk Harrington, Brian Kern, Cory JGefer, Dan Kirslt, Allyson Kohlmann. Alexa11dra Lohse, Jess Miller, S•ephen Nemeth, Fahim Noor, Hillary Olk, Jeff Silver, Jessisca Stephens, 1Lee Stevens, Sanskriti Tllakur, Charles Tuthill, ViiiJly Voleti, Kristen Zailourian.

Page 10 ·March 2, 2000 · (!!nrum:Mtnsis OP/ED Opifl.r~.D..r> ~ ()il[fbJ.ials ._., ._._,.· , .. __ , ..... _ .. , --· ... \·_ ____....;,- Dave'sWeeke·nd T'\h: ·e P\\\ ·e\· ...... 50 ,, nA .. Is··,·' Visited my first rave tltis week- Same as with prevention of an I \ Y \ end- ln Albany- a grimy, bleak, interpersonal violation, asking at worn-out residential area without every step, being aware and con- the industry of a struggled-out in- scious of the state of others. Re- dus trial throwback town. Huge sponsibility so as not to violate area, big space, oozing fun. Bot- someone. unspokenahles. Encour- tom body disconnecteddream cot- age open cmnmU:nication- in any ton candy snowba·ll scene. relationship that is at all meaning- Muse les mind used - spent from ful. Very few people want to via- the evening' sjourney. late, want to scar, want to brand, to Back by popular demand, the C'Oiicor{/;f!ll.\i,\ Personal Section \:viii be featuring YOtJR personal ads. Submitting isfi·ee,.just email: concordy(a, vu.union.edu Jll11lU1- 1' ... 20 days, baby! Miss. you, . see you soon! Love, • Annabelle coEIC~elect, You have no idea what you're in for ... Lee, - Face it. You have no coordina- tion, bro. ~Rout& Fed MJ- Johnboy, Sometimes you may laugh at me, but I really am smarter than you think .... sornetimes. -K~trina Dave andBrooke, · Thankyou forall of your hard· A few days without the · ·work!!! rool1ll'll.ate ... just one probl~m... WE LOVE YOU! l! Started out with new-age. multi- carry and continue the flow of pur- ethnic grooves al the Nott. Came ported power and respect, com- home to the throws of a: Friday- mand. If you at all care it is your Beastie Boys dance party, Robert responsibility to e11courage open Johnson, Albert King, a door that and comfortable communication or •· didn't get busted in, beers n' girls else enter the realm of possible • and boys in the funhouse playpen. confusion, distrust, violation, .· Friiday. A little Comedy Central- breaking something. visual stimulant at that particular Anyway, I hung; up when I got -coEIC-elect -DB . Love, The C()ncordy Editors ~e:~L~~~~~~(J~ ti~~~~~~~.~~~~~~-----~---~----~------+•••-------~ J Tom~r<ri,.ls: T th Ed't Malkevich, Malkevich, Malkevich), ing out of the receiver. Picked up ess, ,; z:.~ 0 e · ·1 ors, The Michelin Baby, zoom zoom, oh for the rave at 11. H()me and asleep Congratulations! Don't get Your work and dedication is. yeah. by 8. Wake by no()n. [expletive] started too early! Thank you foreverything!!! most admirable. Thank you for Friend and housema te came day with visiting ahtrnn- they rule. putting up with me. horne with suppressed tears from absolutely rule. Wa.rni day, love, a sports team\get together.\ asked afternoon fun. Fun. fun, fun. A little to leave since she wasn't taking Busch continues with a couple things \seriously.\ What? WHAT? from the bowl ofElue Hawaiians [expletive] A! WHa'I? What's and count 'em, 1-2-3 bands. there to be serious about in a sports Thanks Rise, the groove's coming · function? Bonding. fun, team- together. Will see yol) again. Hate mates, grooving, having a blast. saying potential. Fi>r what? To be Structure, leaders, ''homework,\re- what? To do what? Just keep on spect, petty self. righteous irre- jamming. Everybody.RightonSmil~ sponsible disrespectful childish ing Politely. Somefavorite people ·· pointless stupid, potentially harm- in my world, cool cool- just have ful, non-caring inconsiderate, reck- fl!n and work it tight. Got some less [expletive]. pretty cool stuff to work with. If you sign up for a Gr-eek Orga- Hopewell rocked my house, rocked · nization maybe. Maybe. MAYBE my night. Thank you, thank you, you have an idea of what you thank you I expressed to each of might possibly be g~tting into them in the afterwards. Dave, (whatever that may be) and maybe Colin, Kurt, Doug: sooo good and stupid[expletive]hasaplacewher- just going to get so much better .. ever that might be. My idea of stu- Thank you. pid may be someone else's idea of Matt and Shobe and ali the rest fun, entertainment, leader or not, in Johanna's room wrapped up my but any such situation that is fine couple of days - talk, dis- geared around, based on course, fun mind play. Termina- someone's idea of fun carries the tors? Technology vs. people. potential ofbeing manifested into What about clon:i!lg, man? Super . someone else's nightmare. Huge re- armies bred from birth and raised sponsibility. HUGE. like animals, treated, controlled, So I called the hostess of the ethics, slaves, moraJs, Mental map- show and discussed the situation. ping blueprints foT custom lofts, My friend showed up feeling be- crazy little pieces of carpentry. Co- trayed that teammate friends would mind games, fun. lf there's any rea- care more about carrying though son at alto want to be rich it's to with feigned importa.!lce, stupid have the ability t() do cool [exple- bonding activity than about her- tive]. Setup artistey, craftsmanship, a living breathing ltuman being, anything of the S()rt. Anything at teammate, friend. She's. lucky to all Screen plays,. right ort things - have the wits, strength and mind right on Woody Harrelson, to recognize [expletive] people and Hard core aboutancient trees- vi· situations when she encounters tal to ecological systems, balance, · them and to develop a perspective life. Right on-ope11 thought, objec- that she can live with. others may tivity, independence, caring, stand· not be as lucky. Nobody knows ing, caring about minds, emotions from sec- .... And Sunday's not that bad ond-hand evidence ()f behavioral Though entitled Dave's Week- observations. To Anybody in- endl'mnotalwaysgoingtoreport. valved in overseeing any such thatwholescene.Dave'sweekend situations: Please, please for the is whatever goe:S. on in his head. sake of dignity, righteousness, car- free fast simple, 11owever it comes ing at all about others, recognize out, raw. I don't need a mental va- the significance of your responsi- cation- I've always got my week- bility to not mar relationships and ends. psyches, people, care. Dave Martin Kappa Sigma Respon.se To the news editor: the house. Secondly I wanted to My house wanted to respond to make it clear th.at the decision to the two arridcs written about rtot merge Kappa Sigma with DU Kappa Sigma mlast weeks editiorL First I just wanted to reiderate that altl1ough an alleged assault charge was filed that occurred at this house, it in no way .had anything to do with any of the brothers or and Beta, and to not accept any sophomores fi·ornDU and Beta was a house decisio11. Thank yon, Michael Sheehan Kapp~ Sigma President Love, Rachel ;Kae1yn,. · Can'twai:tto see you again!! :Keep having fut:i! .love, 1 Your big sister flfT111EMENT INSURANCE Lots ofLove, Ballerina Rach, Always and forever. SEM MUTUAL FUNDS -BMB Kirsch, · Decisions, decisions, ... -Rout TRUST SERVICES TUITION FINANEING TIAA-CREF's tax-deferred solutions Ean help you reaEh your retirement goals faster. Wherl you'rE' ir.we~ting. for retirement, the adage •ne~r put off until tom<lrrow what you can cfo today· doesn't .apply to taxes. That's because in11costn1ertts that aren't eroded t>y taxes can add up to significantly more mcmey for yoU<-money you can use to supplement your pension and Soci(!l Security. Let our consultant> show you all !he advantages of til>< deferral, or call u!i. for a fr;ee·tax-savings cakulatot. Supp!emer:-tal Rctiremerlt Annuities (SRAs), IRA) ,.1tld other wx-!>3ving solutlon>-.aiDtl<:J with nAA·CREF's low expeo~ and snlid investment pe-rformance-<,an help you invest tax smart today so ttlat you can reach your retirement goals faster in the years to come. TAX DEFERRAL MAKES ADiffEfHNCt $102,068 Tax ·deferttG sl'l'lDgufter hxes 1 $67,514 In thi' hypotberiralenmpht, setting .;;side SUI6 <~ montlt in a tu·defrrred invn!mentwlthn 8\ire111m in a 211% In bralkel shCiws ilettar growth alter 311 !'an tb11n the 5ame net amount put into a !l•vings iltroulit. w w w. t i a a · c. r e f.- o r g

Advertisement cn:.umnrUien~i~ • March 2, 2000 • Page 11 ..

If It Ain't Yours, Don't Cover, b)' Dan Centi St.aff Writer Arnerican Pie, failing to capture the spontaneity and good nature of original. Iffuese artists must do covers, at the very least they could There can be nothing more per- offer a radically different but still sonal to a reciOrding artist than the stellar variation on the original, cuhnination of all their hard 'work like Jimi Hendrix with Bob and talent: thoeir song. When they Dylan's All Alt:mg the Watch- use their feeHngs and intelligence tower. to construct a tune, it becomes an Even more blasJ)hemous than immortal emotional statement. the remakes is the abundance of Though certain songs posses sen- sampling other ariists' material. timental val\Le to the populous, as \Sampling\ (many refer to it as they're tile soundtrack for certain stealing, andjastifia.bly so}, or the events in our lives, they can never process of lifting bits and pieces mean to us what they do to their of one song to mix into another, a u t h o r , has literally become Its own art which is why ,-----------------, form.· Puff cover songs \Even more Daddy and should he o t he ·r s rare and blasphemous than the h a v e handled with p r o v e n the utmost remakes is the through. care by the b d if sampling · artist doing a un ance 0 that it's them. z· th easier to Unfortu- samp zng O er take the nately, th.e artists' material. , best parts. music indu!5- of a previ- try in th.e ,__ ______________ __.... ous hit and · past few yea;-s has seen a remark- weave them int<> a1new song than able increase- in cover songs, sup- it is to simply write anew hit. It's porting an argument of mine that the easy way out, since a success- current music::al trends are .. so poor ful hit from years; past will most many artists are reverting to past lik:.ely be a hit now, and has sam- material for inspiration. rated the market with watered That's not a good thing, consid- d()wn studio creations designed to ering that so many cover songs rnake money. have besrnudged the original ver- Will Smith is also blatantly sions. Last summer The Wallflow- gailty of this, \sampling\ every- ers, a respectable radio friendly thing from Stevie Wonder (/ · rockband,coweredthe 1977David Wish), to one o.f my favorite Bowie electronically tinged rock hmds, The Clash (Rock the Ca- classic Her.o.:s. saba). Everything that made the Bowie One could rnalce the argument version a triumph, the state of the tl1at covering so11gs and \sam- art synthetic sound, outstanding piing\ introduces those artists to guitar work and amazing vocals, anew generationoffans. In some were absen1 from the remake. cases that's accurate, but in all · More recently, Sheryl Crow, an truth it's really recycling past extremely tiilented musician, at- greatness to makernoney. Origi- tempted to redo the Guns n' Roses n11.lity is as ra.re as brilliance in opus Swel!t .Child 0 · Mine, with mntemporary music, but some- disastrous re:sults. thing will give sooner or later. I'm Shamefully, Madonna has just hoping sooner, bat you never can remade Don McLean's immortal tell. The Asian Persuasion by Philip Cho Staff Writer I have been traveling a road that is familiar but full of surprises. It is a road with hardship and pain, but it is a road I hav:e chosen ()ver the other that looked so easy and relaxing. But yet again, the ro!ld that I have chosen diverges again into two. One that seems hardly traveled, and the other who has seen many people pass. It seems easy at first to decide which road _to choose, but yet it is not. All the trouble and all the pain has got me wondering ·if I should chose the easier more traveled road. I am tempted, but I know that if I chose that now that the other road will be dosed. I sit here meditat- ing .on the road, trying to decide on what is the proper road. As I have moved on the road, I fmd it more difficult to decide which is the right path, and which is not I find that both roads are not as traveled as was before, but I know that I can tell barely which is the less trav- eled. As graduation comes near, and l have more decisions to make, I wonder what I have learned in my trave.ls. I realize that nothing I have learned can prepare m.e for the next step. I know now that the decisions that were made before are of inci- dences and situations. Experience'cannot h6lp me, be- cause this is, a new f()J!k that di- verges in my life. One road seems full of promises ofhope, money, and h!:lppiness in life. It is a road that begins diffi- cult,. but in the end makes all the Q.ifference. will l>e moder~tely happy, al- though not all my dreams will be fulfilled. The diffictllt ,r:o.ad beckons me to experience life: and take chances · that may not reach: its fruitfulness. It is up to 'Iny cltaracter, and. Ir!.Y sou:l, and I know t:bat 'both will be tested, Th¢ roads dliverge into two, and I am not .sure which to take. One road demands of me the pmspect of gomg; to law school, and becorrril:tg ala.Wyer. The road is a difficult one_ But the rewards entail that which I yearn for the most. I know tiJ.at only if I take ,that road that I c:an marry my be- loved, and treat ll.er right and with- ()Ut hardship. If 1 take this road :that will mean devotion of2 years of my life to Peace Corps. in West A.frica. 2 years away from my loved ones. Then, it will entail that I work for a couple years, an.d then take the difficultjourney into law school. The prospoects if! succeed a:re expansive. Eut, if! fail I am ilo better off theB I was before I made the step in.1o iliat road. The other road calls for me to go into business. A mucb. easier prospect ·since my parents own businesses, :a.nd with their help, I know that I 'can succeed easiJy. The road that ,calls to me hauntingly in my dreams is of the difficult one. I realize that one s:ingle thing makes ' . the difference. That of my beloved one that I hold so dear. If I take the second road, I know that I will be unable to keep her. Ifliakethe more dif.:. ficult road, I know that there will be a better chanc:e for her to be my wife, and he fre-e of the hardship she lias already·eodured. Sh~ has chosen the difficllllt read, and! fmd h.er in front of m:e taking the diffi- cult road. tially rear in the future. I will take the :toad. Not for me, but far :her. She is the guiding light, my source ofbope. I will take that road. [ fear the outcame, bur I know 1hat it will rnake the difference. The difference that may well determin(! if I <:at). have her as my wife. As r step into the road,] know that there is no turnin~ back. As 1 step :in.t() thatroad,,my hopes are high, as I gilze into her face. She·smiles, and enc(lurages me forward. I pusll neyself, trying to catch up to the bea11ty that is so ahead of me ill t:h:is time. I push myself so tha1: ·I can C<:ttchup. I push myself so that I ca.n be the proper individuat fcc her very soul. I push on, leave all behind me, and hQpe for the besL I silently say goodbye to my pastp and. I move towards the tug ofthe road that may cause me defeat But even in defeat, I know that this decision has made all the differ- ence in the world. I know that Robert Frost was right when he said that the toad less traveled , makes all the difference. It is time fot me to grow and learn again. It is time for me to sit up and be counted. It is time for me to move on. I bid all a farewell, and hustle in. to the dark and difficult road. I }()ole hack once more, and l am gone. My heart is full, my spirit is bursting, and my love gTows deeper for the .oriethat has show.11 me the way. Theone that has care- fally slowed her step, and become a guide to one that is unsure ofthe road. I hope that the guide does not leave my road, but even ifshe does, I will let her go because I }()veher. That is the way that must be done, and if destiny calls that I not have her, then that is what it mustbe~ I move forward, andshe tllms back for an instant to tou\?11 my hand, giving me hope·beyond thati can imagine. I thirst for 1ife:, and I move towards it in hopes that I can become a better persoo. I mo..,e, and with all my effort, lake the steps towards the only perscm that means so n;mch to me. Another is a mad that of which seems easy ancl sure. But yet, I do not know if that path leads to a dead end. I know that whatever choice 1 make, that it is that which will ma:ke all the difference. It is a matter of deciding which step to take. One road forces me to hard- ship, which will seern boundless, but I know that intuitively that that road will be that which makes a dif- ference in such a fragtle life that is -----------------~--------1 reality. The road with hardship I see her, but yet I am tempted to take the easie1 road, although I know that if I db; I will never see h.er again. I ·lomlc pondering. into the road,and l.se:e ihe sun set, I have made my decision. A deci- sion thatwillal1ermy life forever. A road thatwillspellhardship and uncertainty, butille road I am des- tined to take. I move to the ange-l that has tou«;hedmy soul forever and ever. I lmow that· someday I will be re- warded for the trip I am about to take. I am brimming with happi- ness. 7 Bedroom House 2000-2001 Larg·e Bedrooms~ 2 Bathrooms, Modern Kitchen, Appliances, Extra Closets, Large Deck and Yard, Security System and only half Block from Campus One Year Lease A 28 Year Union Student Tradition! Call 370-5498 promises great reward. But, I am not sure if I can survive the road that beckons me to come. The other road is sure and I know that I s column is gonna be pretty short. I ha:ve no time to write this because I didn't get any of my card courses. So I'm scrambling to find anything that isn't a card· course, that I can take that's out- side of my major (which I've al- . ready completed). But that one class is Freshman Precept. So I'm screwed, because I need to take three classes and I can't take three versionsofPrecept. How many times can you say \F#*k A1juna?\ Have you seen that pink course guide? Every damn class is a Y. How about instead of making all those classes card courses, just make more sections? But that would require more professor teaching time and tess research I will take the less traveled road. Not for me, but fClr my loved one, and the offspring we may poten- time. Idon'tgiveacrap pro- fessorresearch. F*#k research. in my eyes, they .are paid to teach. Period. Everythn11g else is second- ary. If the schooll1a:d their priorities straight,· then A.T Miller would have tenure eve11 though his re- search wasn't su:perior,I wouldn't be pass/failing I:.ntro to Sociology as a Spring Term Senior, and Cyberwraps would include any ingredient my li.ttle heart desired. Once again I ~m tapped out for this newspaper. I am done. Sorry that I couldn't write more this year, but my column is about as useful as a dirty pong ball that's been split in half. I used ta care about it. Now, I get to graduate, Spt·fug will rule, most of you get to tween one to three more years in this \maturity springboard.'' Clutch your alcohol. Have noll.ob- bies. Hook-up with each other. 1 could care less. Union girls: Keep going out with tllo.se guys who treat you like s>~<'*t, because you're not ready for a real relationship. Union boys: Keep doing your thing until those girls tum into women and stomp on you. Jn a few years; I will look at three year's worth of my Co'lcordiensis articles and wonde;r why I even bothered dissecting this pla<le. To my longtime reade1~: TI1anks for your input and moti- vation that got me started sopho- ffi()re year. Later. l lei th< Te all sp sic he Sp is an inc al de wl .ca ex di T~: all qt.: \c ea WI ea fo an ar pl sr ca TI ta: ha th tQ. so ta: th ar fo

FeatiJres Underwater Weaving by Brian Kern Sta.ffWriter who either need or deserve an easy why wo11ld doing it underwater be term. Unfortunately, it would any simpler? I-don'lima.gine it is. seem as though there are no easy The interesting thing I'd like to classes to take. point out is that underwater basket Union College is a very chal- I've looked through the course weavin_g is never teferredto by it- lenging school, this we all know. catalog and it l'l;t lea()t seems like self. S()meone always mentions However, noteveryc:me is up for every course has some amountof basket weaving, and then they or that challenge all the time. Spring difficulty ass()dated with it. is anotherpersonsayunde:tWaterbas- Term is coming up, and we would there a solution to i:his dilemma? ket weaving. all like to have more free time to Is this a dilemma that even needs I tho1lgbt that was pretty funny spend out-.---~~-~-~-~-~---~-~~----~---...-.., and I would side. I've h · ave liked to been told ''The interesting.··. thing I'd like to· have ,found· Spring Term out why it was • is the best, point OUt iS that so. But I and I imag- didn't, so I in~~ ~hat is underwater bas feet weaving js never :~~=n·t 1 ~ 0 ~~ ad Union stud- , referred tO .by itself_ u itlgfor an an- ent to .o '1· swer. . when they can neither handle nor desire the extreme>Challenge of three or four difficult classes during Spring Term? What about seniors who have already filledeall gtadQation re- quirements and just need to \coast\ for the last term'? Take an easy course, naturally. Now don. ;t get me wrong, in no way am. I saying we shouldall take easy coarses. Like I've said be- fore, that's not why I came here and that isn't the kind of person I or anyb()dy else here is. In fact, l pl!ln on taking four courses in Spring Term instead of the typi- cal three. But surely there are exceptions. There are people who deserve _to take sue~ an_ ea~y .cQurse, who have earned the .right to breeze through Spring Tenn. Obviously I'm talking about tQ.ose seniors .who are graduating soon, as well as people who bave taken four .classes in a term ~o far this year, or even people who just aren't able to deal with the rigor for another straight term. So there certainly are people a solq.tion? I can assure you that the people who are looking (or such an easy class definitely think a solutiop is needed. But what could the an- swer to this problem be? Basket~ weaving of.course. I was way too busy to do any research on the topic of basket weaving, but I will say that I've had some minor experience with it way back in fourth grade. I'm not sure ifthatbasketweaving has a~Jhing to do with real basket weaving, but it wasn't really th~t easy, of course I was in fourth grade so who really knows. Even if it was a little difficult, basket weaving has come to be known as a very e(;lsy tiling to do. In fact it seems to be a very p<!pular choic:~ as an easy CO\lrse for the upcorniil.g .Spring Term. The only problem is that there are no actual basket-weaving courses offered here at Union. So now what is a persen to do? Underwater basket weaving of course. But is )his really any sim.- pler? I mean., basket weaving it- self is not an. easy thing to do, so One thing I know fo:r sure though is that un· derwater basket weavrng is not a new thing that's going around, nor is it uni(J_ue to Union College as I thought it was. I know this after interviewing al~mni from other colleges (my parents). Apparently, \lnderwater basket weaving was quite common even when tl1ey went to college in the '70s, 11n.d on campuses such as NYU a:ndPace University. So a.}lparently basket weaving and its sister~art, underwater bas- · ket weaving,. are quite common. They ollviously just refer to really easy CD\Lrses people tal<e in order to breeze through a. term. I hqpe no one thinks I'm trying to put doVIIl art: classes, ()f even any form ofllas~et :weilv\ng itself, af- ter all I. am It fan of ph.otography. I also don•twantpeoplet~ think. that Union students, myself iri.cluded, are not lookin.g to challenge them- . selves. I'm.just reiterating the question people llave been askin.g me for quite some time now; wb.atare the underwater basket weaving courses here at Union? ·THE &le> CLUB $5,000 in scholarships for an.y educational expenses! The Ad Club is proud to offer a $2,500 scholarsbip to 2 students entering their sophomore, junior., or senior year at a Capital District college or university.!!! $5,000 in scholarships for any educational expenses! Students must have a registered maJor in one of the following fieldS Oi study: Communications • Marketmg • Pi:ablic- BelatioDs • Graphics Or any other speciflca.JJy· :related communications: curriculum $5,000 in scholarships for any educational expenses! Deadline for a.pplica.tions: April 26, 2000 J!'or an a:Pplication contact: 'rhe Ad Club Scholarship C/0 T:he Community Foundation .for the Capital Regi>On Executive Park Drlve,Albany.NY 12203 Ca.ll (518) 446-9638 .Fax (518) 446-9706 E-mail: qJs~nnGdY@ua.ma.il.,.lba.ny:e.f:h.! Or see your Financial .Aid O-ffice the words of rky 1g, \That's all folks.\ After four years of working on Concordiensis, my time here is done. In those four years the paper has certainly gone through many, many changes. While the majority of these changes have been g(Jod, some of them have been not so good. But this is neither the time or the place to discuss those particular issues, It has become a common prac- tice in the last couple of years that the out-going Features writers get to write some long dmwn out ca- thartic piece on how wonderful or horrible their time here at Union has .been. Some of these past au- thors have left with witty, vindic- tive Top Ten Lists (see Thurbville). Others writers like Uncle Edna, did \One Final Dis- sertation on Crack.\ Yet all of these final articles had one thing in common: they were aU witty and funny. Both being witty and funny are the two qua~ities that recently I have felt my writing has lacked, and hence no \Riding the Pine\ for the lasttenn. I could not, however, let this opportunity to write one last article pass me by. As I sat down to write this I fig- ured I could tum to some of my articles to get some inspiration. Unfortunately, this wasnohelp as the squirrels of my freshman year are long dead by now. Tales of President Hull controlling huge flocks of blackbirds as his own private airforce just does not seem to cut it. And as for equating how a female eats an ice ere~ cone with her technique for giving head, well, we can just leave that one alone for now. You must admit, however, or not, if you do not want to, that many a strange topic has been run under the heading of\Riding the Pine.\ For a while I even had my . own cult following. That, of course, lasted until I became edi- tor and ran for like thirty~seven weeks a cartoon of Band-Aids that had a caption that read \Un- der Construction,\ The cartoon was cute idea but as with most things I do, it turned into overkill dueto the aforementioned running of it for thirty-seven weeks. Hey, I even wrote an in-depth article about Union's bottled water. Not all of the articles that have appeared in \Riding the Pine,\ of cou.rse, have been funny. The two that stand out in my mind the most were one I did as a sophomore, urging, well not urging but sug- gesting to people that they remem- ber that we are still young and in college 1 and that they should not take everything so seriously. If I had only taken my own advice. The reason for that article: an ar- gument between me and the Edi- tor-in-chief. Not much has changed in that department. I still argue with the Editors, but hey, now they are a lot cuter. 'The other article that I am proud of would have to be the one that I wrote this past Fall. I urged seniors to use their remaining time at Union to their best ·Of their abil- ity. I also suggested that the other classes do the same thing. I know, it was a little bit cheesy but hey, some people liked it. None of these .articles, of course, me one, as·anyone who knows me can at- test, I either never do anything (which can be attributed my chronic case oflaziness) or when I do do stuff I am way too loud and over the top with it (this can be at- tributed to the unfreezing process which left me with no control over the VOLUME AT WHICH I COMPLETE MY TASKS). Just a side note here, has anyone else started to quote movie lines to the ninth degree? My friends and I have gotten ridiculous with this. (One would expect a movie quote here but I figured that you all just could not handle a quote, plus that would make me predictable, and no one wants to be predictable). Any- way, this is neither here nor there but just something I thought I would pose. This, however, brings me back to my original point. Getting to this point in my career as a writer and editor for Concordiensis has been a strange, strange adventure. (For those of you who have small chil- dren in the room or get easily emo- tional, I suggest at this point that you place the paper down and slowly back out of the room.) I know that this is an overused cli- che, but the editorial staff up here on the third floor of the Campus Center is like one medium-sized dysfunctional family. We even have the uncle that no one likes to talk about. The atmosphere up here is very candid. At times you catch your- self saying things that in a million years no one would ever think would be said out loud. The even cooler part is that we can laugh at ourselves. We have a wall, well every building has a wall. The im- portant thing is what is on this wall. When one of us up here makes an impressively witty, or vile, or just such a random, out-of-the-blue statement, we honor that person by placing their comment on the wall as a sort of reward for creativity. Or, in my case, the wall is a testa- ment to my overall stupidity. We encourage each other and, of course, disparage each other just as much, but hey, that is life. The editorial staff is also cool because, as students. we all know what similar hell the person sitting next to you is going through. We can understand why the person heading towards the window wants to jump out of it. It's also the same reason why we no longer keep the office gun loaded. It also says a lot for why when I come into the of- fice like a raving lunatic and why I pretty much get ignored. In terms of getting ignored, I get ignored with the utmost respect by my fel- low students. When all is said and dorte, how- ever, I had a great time up here. Me and the squirrels, and the black- birds, and ice cream cones, and even inside jokes from a term abroad. All of these things, plus the great lessons I learned in how to deal with people more insane than 1 am. All of these things and these people, if you allow me to get sen- timental for a moment, helped make my time at this school great. And so I say good by to all .!£\.6\) and to all a good-night. ~ - ., ....

. '? ·Russians Claim Victory In Chechnya by Charles Ththill StqffWriter On Tuesday, February 29 Rus- sian Colonel General Troshev re- ported that full-scale· military op- erations within Chechnya were coming to a close. According to the general, Russian foFces have taken the town ofShatoi. Shatoi is reportedly the last rebel stronghold in Chechnya and its downfall wouldsignal a strong Russian vic~ tory inthe breakaway republic. A Russian victory in Shatoi would also make carryirtg on a large-scale war very difficult for the Chechen rebels. The town is lo- cated thirty miles. south of the Chechen capital ofGrozny, in the Argun gorge. Many believe that the area is key to controlling any remaining rebel bases in the south- ern Caucus Mountains. General Troshev was quo teed by the Assoc.iated Press as saying that Shatoi, \the last populated point [in Chechnya and] a regional center, along with nine surround- ing settlements ... [are] fully under the control of [Russian] forces.\ The Itar-Tass news agency, which has covered many of the events in Chechnya, also reports that the Russain military command has claimed victory in Shatoi. There- ports from the Russian military, however, have not yet been con- firmed by outside sources. The reports from the military command have not been com- pletely supported by lower rank- -ing officers. Many complaiN that the fighting in and around Shatoi is stHl very fierce and that it could , continue for some time. Others pre- dict that large numbers of rebels were able to escape and that a sec- ond battle for Shantoi is likely. Captain Mikhail Komarov told As\'\ sociated Press reporters that he was \stunned by the helplessness of [the Russian] military collU):land- ers\ and compared the actions of the Russian military to \running around the mountains like goats.\ The actions of the Russian mili- tary have also drawn criticism from the West, which points to the high civilian cost of the war. Many west:.. em leaders believe that in an at- tempt to inflict heavy casualties on the Chechen rebels, many civilians have also been killed. T~ey point to incidents such as one that that occurred in last Thursday near the village ofZony. Twenty-five refu- gees were reportedly killed as they fled the violenceusinga ''safe cor- ridor\ provided by the Russian military. ·. Alleged civil rights abuses -within Chechnya have also drawn in. tema tional a ttemti.on. Contribut- in.g to this spotlight was the de- tailll1lent ofRadio. Free Europe/Ra- dio Liberty re-:porter Andrei Il2bitsky by :Russian force·s. Eabitsky was beliieved be missing -wllile reporting in Chechnya and it -w2s later discoveied that Russian fO>rces had detainoed Babitsky and. flown him .to Mo-scow. Babitsk:y accused Russia 'Of civil rights abttses includin~ the torturing of Cllechen inrn.ates at the Clremok0zovo <letention camp, -wllich is located north ofGrozny. Eehas been char~ed wi~ possess.- iilg false docu~ents and is re- qliiredto stay in Moscow while the iJt\Vestigation con.tinues. R.ussia has he ell criticized fer its \'at inChechnyaaJthough the cam.- paign continues to be popul1;1.r amon.g the Russian public. Recent polls reflect that tile majority ofthe Russian populati()rt seems to favor th.\C war. The :factt that the war re- m.ains popular has led many to ac- cttse the govennnoent of exploiting it1() bolster supp01rt for the current re,gime. They point to the Grozriy c!!mpaign, which. was completed near the time oftlle Presidential and parliamentary ele-ctions, as an ex- arnple. Those who believe the regime is e\-J>loiting the war a'lso point to l . supposed falsities the in reporting of events. Casualty figures, along with allegedly exaggerated reports of victory have been central to the matter. For example, the casualty figures for th~ Grozny ca,mpaign were vi- ciously scrutinized, as they did not conta,in the number of Russian in- terior:rnillistry troops killed. Many analysts also believe that Che~::hen civilians have suffered great losses because .of the Rus- · sian military'sattemptto limit ca- sualties .. They ·believe that weap .. ons such as fuel..,air explosives, which can destroy resistance in a large a:rea, have c.0ntributed to many civilian, deaths. Critics of these tactics believe that large amounts of Russian casualties would start to make the war un- popular in Russia. · Weapons de- signed to neutralize latge numbers, they believe, are being used to limit the number of Russian soldiers killed. Press coverage is also at the heart of controversy surrounding the war in Chechnya. ·In .some in,.. stances, casualty figure.s repo~ by the press have differed from the · numbers given by the Russiart mili- tary. Many also point to the ab:.. sence of live coverage as an at-· tempt to hold on to public support. Live coverage played a large part · in the 1994Chechen campaign, and many believe that its grisly images affected public support for the war. Misha Lipman, who is the co-edi- tor·of a weekly magazine in Russia told reporters from Radio Free Eu- rope/Radio. Liberty that live cover~ age contributed t0 \anti-Kremlin sentiments .. , both in the press .... and in soeiety .. \ Numerous kidn.appings of Russians in Cheolmya are believed to have de- terred many journalists from at .. tempting live coverage efthis cam- paign. Conflicting accounts of the war in Chechnya have been. common place. Thefactremains, however, that Russian forces have the bulk: .of the Chechen rebels pushed to a remote southern area .of the coun~ try. They have taken Grozny, the capital of Chechnya, and control . most- of the other large cities. A Russian victory at this point seems inevitable. Continued violence,. however, is always a possibility as rebels can .easily blend in with the local population. The resurgence of organized. Chechen :resistance after the 1994 Russian campaign has shown that future violence is possible. It will he interesting to see ifRussian leaders will again be able to r:ide on the coattails ef a popular war, if violence breaks out in Chechnya in the future. German Conservatives Elect New Leaders by Dan Kirsch Staff Writer German conservatives elected a new leader Tuesday of their parlia- mentary group in an attempt to make a \'new stare due to the cam- paign-finance scandal that has shaken the party .and the nation to its core, prompting many to specu- late as to the continued stabiliiy of the German political system. This, party leaders have said, is the worst crisis in the history of the CDU (the German conservative party). The scandal began as a series of recently discovered, undisclosed donations that eventually led to the admission by former German Chancellor and quarter-century CDU leader Helmut Kohl that he had created and administered a complex web of foreign donation and laundering schemes that con- cealed the identities of many do- nors to the party. Originally, it was only arms dealers who were impli- cated. but developed eventually mto many other discoveries and even accusations of donations by the French government to the party, their most likely motive being sta- h!lity oft he governing coalition to ensure a smooth transition into European integration. Kohl has reCused to reveal the names of any of the initial sources of the fu-11ds fueling the CDU's cam- paign coffers under this money laundering schemes, and their names have been heretofore osten- sibly those of Jewish benefactors of the party, but this is not now taillted nonetheless. He originally nor ever true. In addition to the 'Wished to resignand run again to twenty-one million Deutschmarks be elected anew as.. party leader, but the CDU has had to pay for this - vilten he saw he didn't have the apparently six million Deutschmark scheme, Kohl could in a worst-case scenario be facing jail time. The poetic justice is too much. Just as the last Communist leader of East Gem1any, Egon Krenz, was recently sent to a six-year term in a mini- mum-security prison for bribery, so could the Unification Chancellor also be sent away to that erstwhile horne of his own political oppo- nents, for essentially the same rea- sons. Kohl's silence is supposedly to conceal the identities of those he made promises to, but it could actually be to conceal the fact that many of these donations came at the time the same companies had business before the government. Kohl eventually stepped down as Honorary Chairmanofthe CDU after the scandal was fully un- earthed, a position he held after his re-election defeat for Chancellor over a year ago. His personally appointed successor, Wolfgang Schaueble, who was his lieutenant in the twilight years of his chan- cellorship, attempted to show the nation that with Kohl gone from even his most honorary post. his influence in the party and hence his corruption would no longer be even a factor irt the CDU. That was before Sthaueble ad- mitted to not reporting political donations under this same scheme. His offe11ses were not nearly as gross as Kohl's were, but he was smpport to win again, he stepped down definitively as both Parlia- nentary Opposition leader and pGllty leader. This left a vac!Lum that has par- tially been filled, and new political stars are only U()W' coming into fo- ctJs_ The newest is Friedrich Merz, newly crowned leader of the par- liamentary oppl)!sition, head of Germany's \shad()w cabinet,\ the opj>osition 's altemative govern- I11ent if they were to be in majority. He is fourty-folli:, a budgetary ex- pert, former soldier, an excellent ot~ator, and finally, young. Mo~t leaders of the CD1J are extremely a11cient; and his pres~nce makes the possibility r.f shedding the Corrupt Old Cod2er image more re2listic. However, his. strong rise from a new meml:Der of parliament in 1994 to leader today has many heads turning, a11d Merz has had to deny rumors of a \putsch\ or intra-party coup a:gainst his prede- cessor Schaueble. Merz was cho- se!l by passing over several quali- fiecl candidates, and while admit- te<iiy running umopposed, man- ag;ed to elicit this response on his rn<~rgin of victory ( 1 7 4 in favor toseven against) from Schaueble: •T!tat is unusually good.\ Merz. chose .as cm.e of his depu- ties in his shadow cabinet Volker Ruehe, the leader of the party in Sdtleswig-Holstciil.; a Gemumstate t11at just lost in the state parliamen- tary election to the Social Demo..: crats. Ruehe is a candidate for the chairmanship of the CDU in April, and he was originally seen as too close to Kohl to win any votes, and he did indeed lose decisively his own state election. So why is he being considered such a heavy fa- vorite for the chairmanship? An- other. state premier who r-ecently won his elections, Roland Koch, is no longer considered a candidate for leadership because he was im- plicated in the scandal just as he was about to start his campaign for leader. There is also the Angela Merkel factor. The party's Secretary and a more liberal member of the CDU, she was one of the fttst to condemn - Kohl in the scandal. Merkel is seen as a prime candidate for the CDU leadership as welL She, however, is also being backed by some of the more conservative members of the party. But why not Christian Wulff, 40, also a \young Turk\ in the party? He has been a vocal critic of Kohl since this scandal broke. Why has he not received the same attention as Merkel? There is also the CSU. The CSU is essentially the CDU's Bavarian wing, but functions as its own party, with the exception of the CDU/CSU joint parliamentary grouping, of which Friedrich Merz is the head. The CSU is headed by Bavarian premier (governor) Edmund Stoiber, who has had his eyes on the chancellery for some time now, but nev:er had come close, because he is a Roman Catholic from Bavitria and a mem~ ber of the wrong party,. considered the more conservative wing of the conservatiye groups in Germany. Only one conclusion can fairly be reached. The SPD, the party in power, the Social Democrats, and the media are being supplied inside information. -Or is Volker·Ruehe one of the real culprits in the scan- dal, being given protection by the strongman, Friedrich Merz, so that Ruehe can se<:ure the party for a Chancellor run by Merz in the near future? Is Merz b.lackmailipg Ruehe with. the same irtfoimation he broughtdown Kohl, Schaueble, and Koch with? Did he have any- thing to do with this at all? Only time willtell, and maybe jtwon't. Merz or Stoiber could be pulling the wool over a11 the i;iyes of Deutschland, and we may never lmow. What is for sure, though, is that unless the conservatives ~orne up with a strong candidate in the next parliamentary elections who can distance himself sufficiently from the .scandal, they face tl1e danger of becoming marginalized by a far- right party in the same way the Austrian conservatives were. This fear could be fueling the CDU to attempt to ensure their con- tinued hegemony on the right by co-opting the ri.ght within their own party, and ensuring the attrac- tiveness of their candidate by re- energizing the party while preserv- ing the ideology of old. Merz would be an ideal beneficiary of such a scenario.

World New:s Cllorunrhl~nsis • March 2, 2000 ·Page 15 - The New Poster Boy.for the GOP by David Gruner StqffWriter Three Republica.n presidential candidates remain intact, eager to succeed President Clinton during an impre~siv,e prosperous and peaoeeful state of affairs, here and abr<o;;~.d. Yet, who that man will be is yet to be determined. Ever .since McCain's shocking victory in New Hampshire, an:d thim Bush's defeat of the Arizona Senator in South Catolina, the nod for the RepubH- can nomination has been a con- tim!al seesaw battle. whichever one is to rise a:bove, ul- tory in November may be the abil- the support from the Republican timately winning the nomination, ity to persuade the coalition of Party, he must align himselfwith will undoubtedly and immediately blue-collar Democrats and inde- Reagan's steadfast Republican be comparedtothecult-1ike figure pendents to vote Republican. views. Bush, on the other hand, inRepublicanpoliticswhosen~e Senator McCain has done abetter has been able to attract wide is invoked almost as often as job irlcrossingparty lines withhis spread Republican support Abraham Lincoln, Ronalcl Reagan. victories in New Hampshire, .through his :stances on tax reform, President Reagan left office Michigan, and his home state of abortion, a11.d strengthening the twelve years ago ~:--~-------~---------~----,military. ,yet stilhemains ' His \compassion- the GOP's poster \President Reagan left office twelve years ate conservatism\ has boy. Hiscreden·· ago yet still remains the GOP's poster bO'IJ, been linked to the tials as a human · J Reagan mantle.. Yet, and conserva-. His credentials as a human and opposite of McCain, tive politician.· conservative politician made great strides his word has not been made great.· h able to effectively . strides inproving. in proving to t. e world that the United States reach out to Demo- P'roba:bly the only guarantee, so far, isthatconservative andformer Ambassador, Alan Keyes, is sure to be passed over for that presti- gious honor am()ngst the Republi- can ranks. Keyes should realize that his stature within the party struc- ture·does not have the broad-based appoeal needed to win a national election; and therefore, should dr<'lp out and take his uncanny com- municative excitement and style to the lecture circuit. to the world that ' was the only superpower in a crats and the inevi- the United States . multi-cultural and interdependent world. \ table swaying inde- was the only su- · pendents. And that perpower in a ·'--,..---~~~---~~~~---------_~has hurt him. What After dismissing Keyes, only Sern.ator McCain and Governor George W. Bush remain. And multi-cultural and interdependent world. And now that Reagan will unlikely see the rnillemiwn, unfold much fut1her due to A:lzheimer's, the Republican establishment is desperate to fmd the nex.t of kin. With this in mind, it is of no co- incidence that McCain and Bush have begun to center their cam- paigns on restoring the Reagan magic. And from that mystique, they too know that the key to vic- Arizona. McCain garnered more Demo- cratic and independent votes than Republican votes, beginning to gain momentwn in a tight and gritty race. Yet, his connection with the core of the Republican establish- ment has not been as su~cessful, as most of those votes rernain with the Texan, who's a son 0fa former president. And McCain under- stands that in .order to truly gain Austria's Haider Resigns by Stephen Nemeth. · StqffWriter embassy to assess the meaning of province of Corinthian and he said Haider'smove. he would remain active in national Canada, along with fourteen Eu- politics. ·Haider is in his second ropean Union nations limited po- term as the governor of the prov- litical arid diplomatic ties with A us- ince. J(Jerg Haider, the charismatic and tria, reacted more definitively to the He was originally forced to quit coatroversialleader of Austria's move. Those measures are in re- in 1991 after he praised Hitler's Fre·edom Party, resigned his posi- sponse to the far-right elements in sound employment policy and the tiom as party chiefon Monday. This the Austrian government and not Waffen SS as men of character. But announcement comes a month only due to the statements of Mr. the resignation would not reduce sincetheHaiderpartywasallowed Haider,~' said Canadian Foreign the party's influence on,the gov- to join the new coalition govern- Affairs spokesman Patrick Hebert. ernment: Over half of the country's ment. The inclusion of the party Hebert said thepoliticalrestric- ministers are party members. intothegovernment,ignitedanum- tions would remain in place for Alfred Gusenbauer, the newly ber of large demonstrations in a now. The Ui:rited States, one of the elected head of the Social Demo- number of countries ..---~---------------- ...... crats, the Freed0m Party's imdinAustriaitselfand r main opponents, called the led to international criti- ff 'T'1.. • move a tactical trick that cisrnofthesmallnation. .1 rtere was a growzng would lessen the criticism sp~~:da~~;i~~~~~e~ move ifl the press and in ~!:::t~~~;~~:~~ternat spllnsesfrommanydif- h [l h h h ld The newspaper Die fer~mt countries. The ( e p0· S f at . e S . OU···. . . Presse called the resigna- Un:ited States, Canada, tion a shrewd trick to dis- and Israel all immedi- be quiet; \ tanceHaiderfromunpopu- ately adopted a wait and lar government <lecisions see approach amid con- such as an upcoming tax cerns that the resignation is a po- tlrree countries, which restrained hike. It woulcl also help the sag- litical ploy. Oth.er countries were fromex.pressing any confidence in ging popularity the party has ex- not so reluctant France,s foreign the move, stated that the ambas- periencedinrecentweek. minister, Christian Sautter, called sador to Austria remains on recall Haider's own popularity has the Haider's move a victory for the and that it remains concerned over slipped as well, according to re- opposition. His has happened be- the situ:ation. porter Annelaese Rohrer. After the cause of international pressure, State Department Spokesman government came into power, ev- and that is good Swedish Foreign James Rubin, said that the resig- eryone expected Joerg Haider to Minister Anna Lindh said on Tues- nation would be looked upon fa- shut up so to speak, Rohrer said. day. vorably if it al~ows the Austrian There was a growing move in the Israel, which withdrewitsambas- governmenttorunmoreeffectively, press and in the polls that he sador from the country in protest but warned that Washington should be quiet. oftthe inclusion of Haider's party would keep close tabs on the situ- The public, I must say, has be- said that they would be patient il1 ation. We will react swiftly and come a little bit impatient with him. seeing where the resignation leads firmly to any statements (}factions Hopefully, the resignation will a:nd would not reverse its stance suggesting sympathy with Nazi-era cause Haider's influence to sub- anytime soon. policie~ or that express racism, xe- side. The countries of the world are It certainly won't happen in a nophobia or anti-Semi1ism, he said acting both appropriately and ma.tter ofhours, said Israeli Foreign in a statement. quickly in trying to ameliorate and Ministry spokesman Aviv Shir-On, Haider despite giving up his post eradicate the specter of hatred that wruo added that the ministry was as party leader will retarn his posi- has so ravaged that part of the comsulting with Israel's Vienna tion as governor of the Austrian world. · Governor. Bush mustbegin to work on is providing a more open plat- form, communicating with the people in a positive and charismatic tone. He has the tools he just needs to learn how to use them. The Republican Party has lost some of its appeal, as of recent, partly due to restricting and elu- sive members. In order to mend this, they must begin to embrace both nominees, formulating pro- ' . , • • ... gressiveand idealistic policies,. aU the while retaining its traditional roots, thereby driving their party's campaign to a larger sect of the voting pool. And that will help both candidates in the upcoming months, making it virtually impos- sible for another Clintonite Wash- ington to remain undamaged come Novem:ber 7, 2000. More importantly, McCain must look to the Republican establish- ment for the very essence of his candidacy, supporting its cause(s), should he have any chance at the Ph.ilaclelphia convention in Au- gust. And Bush must look past the Republican establishment as a way of opening up his rich cam- paign. Only then, once aU lanes have merged, will the Republican Party be effectively able to make a valid attempt in returning the White House to a Reagan-like administra- tion and bring te light its new poster boy. Only then, will greatness and true 1eforrn transpire in an emerg- ing global structure. And Gore and Bradley will return home, finally closing the book on the Clinton legacy. West GoHede Dfnfnd crnosda~ 3/~ 4:30to ~:00

Page 16 ' Orchestral Debut at Memorial Chapel by Sophia Mazo .and Professor Hillary Tann Contributing Writers Saturday, the Union College Orche!itra, conducted by Profes- sor Tann, will perform an extraor- dinary new work in their Winter Concert. \Memories of Europe\ has been written. especially for the occasion by junior Sofia Mazo, a juniorcompleting her last term at Union as part of its seven-year Medical Program. Her piece is al- ready a hit with members of the orchestra. A Biology-Music inter- departmental major. Mazo has been shidying music composition ·since freshman year. Besides min- iature ',.;\lorks for piano and voic.e, Mazo'sprevious compositions in- clude an arrangement from Schubert's song cycle Winterreise and a q•tartet for violin, viola, cello and flt~te. \Summer in Gubkin.'' Today\'s \Memories of Europe\ marksSofia 's first orchestral com- position. Mazo came to the t lnited States in 1991 from Minsk. Belarus. where she attended mu- sic school and played piano since rrst grade. In Minsk, she was also a meml>er of the choir and today contintJes to sing v.:Jth the Union College Choir. Mazo experimented with MIDI music in high school. using a synthesizer to create short vocal 8nd instrumental pieces. Looking back at her years in t'nion, Mazo has expanded her pallet (}finstrumentalcolor, shift- ing fror:n solo piano to chamber or- chestra.. Maze ex:plains the piece in her program notes: \Memories of Eu- rope w:<~s written in Fall of 1999, after I reh1rned from the National Health5ystems term abroad. That unforgettable summer in Europe took me from Englan.d to Holland to Hungary, where I, along with other Union students, compaFed the different healthcare systems. As there were many opportunities to travel, I discovered and took in a piece of Europe-nine countries in nine weeks, one backpack and a myriad ofmemories.\ The piece is made up of four sec- tions, all constituting one- continu- ous movement. Each part is associ- ated with a place-a country, a city, a historic sight-and is connected to the adjacent parts by a train,, as in the actual journey. This idea ofthe \train link\ is an influence of Mussorgsky's Pictures at an Ex.hi- bition, where the composer's walk from one picture to the next is <:on- veyed through the recurring \Prom- enade.\ A lyrical tune is hidden beneath the hum of the train; as it emerges in the end of the work, many ofyou might recognize it as a Jewisll folk song. Its lines are vetydear tome and have 'helped mealot,both while traveling and while creating this piece. The first section is ins:pired by Brugge,. a city in Northern Bel- gium. Brugge characterizes the opening .of the piece, since .Jt con- tainsall the picturesque tranquil- ity and l>eauty found thr<>ughout Europe. It is known for its fine Sofia Mt1zo in Edinburgh, Scotland lace, andmany canals and bridges separate its cobblestone streets. \As J. saw the sunlight hit the rip- pling water, it shimmered and bouneedoff so brightly that it felt to shine through me. Tlte rustle of weeping willows and beats of horses' h.oofs all sounded like echoes from another world.\ The second section is about England. This contrasting part re- flects. a permeating sense of royal presence. After the horn an- Last Weekend for Love~ Fire Col/em Brown and Liz Halakan take center stage. nounces the arrival, the rivet Thames opens the view onto the ParlLament. The first tlleme is stately and by no means rnCJck:ing- the image is that of two conversing gentlemen~ gray~ haired and in three-piece sui is. An- other fanfare signals an entrance into the B11ekingharnPalace. A cel- ebration ()frespected traditi(Jn and majestic splendor, the second theme also hints of disbelief while being in the Queen's chambers. Fintjly., the bells. Bea-utiful but foreign, they re- mind me CJf a line by poet Hi2abeth Rosner: \No matter where I go, I' 11 always be my own country and what I discevered in that place so far from home was that I W()uld al- ways be my own country.\ The third section is about Vienna. Before. writing a single note f10r this compositio11, Mazo knew that a part of it woti!d be a Viennese wa.ltz. Spending three days in Vienna, she was submerged into the music:alcul- ture of this breathtaking city. She was also very ludq to he in Vienna during the lOOtha:nnive:rsary of the birth of Joh.am Stra.uss Being in Stadt Park on alate ~uly afternoon, hearing a prmrnnent group of in~ strumental s~lo:ist~, and watching costumed couples dance to the fa- mous waltzes~au while sipping champagne under the darkening sky-wouldn't it i11spire to write a waltz? The final section is about the Dohany Synagogue. Located in tb.e center ofBudapest, Hungary, this grand synagogue ~is the biggest in Europe and second lar$est in the world. Two intervals offourths in~ troducing it allude to the sounds of the Budapest metro. This sec- tion is filled with tension and sad- ness, for the synagogue 'COntains a museum and .a courtyard with gravestones, a powerful Feminder of the rnany that perished in the Budapest ghetto~ The rec11rring descent represents.theTree of Life, amemmial in f<lrm of a willow. Each leaf bears a nameof a victim. How- ever, the unique ~rilliance of the nineteenth centurysynag<lgue and today's vibrant IIungatian Jewry relieve the minor mode. A return of ' the Queen therneb.eard in England hints of a similarity between the two \palaces t11e secondone be- ing that of the souL The concert talces place in Me- morial Chapel at Union College on March 4 at 8:0() FM and is free and open to the publjc. The concert lasts an hour and all are welCome to join in a receptio11, following the concert in Hale Rouse. Come sup- port Mazo and th4e entire Orches- tra atthis brilliant new performance on Saturday nig:ht. Love's Fire has received rave reviews. The combination of a brilliant script with the clever directin.g of Professor Ketli Wondra and· the talented acting is a formula for success. See Love's Fire tonight, tomorrow night, and Saturday nigh't at 8 PM and Sunday at 2 PM in the Yulman Theater.

Arts & Entertainment dtl11Uorlri.ensis • March 2, 2000 • Page 17 TV Junkie Reports ·compelling, some of the best epi- out, Fox was preparing to re-airthe Music and Interpretations in the Nott by Jessica Br.earton Staff Writer March brings something that my TV -obsessed personality both fears and welcomes -. · the end of sweeps, and the begillliirtg of the long weeks ofrepeats that fall l)e- tween Febmary and May. Sweeps months are used to determine ad· vertising rates for the networks, so during the months ofNovem- ber, February, and May they go full~throttle at trying to pull iR viewers. This is both good and bad; good because were guaranteed few, if any, repeats ofour favorite series. Must See TV Thursday has been new for the past four weeks, as have been shows like The Prac\ . tice and The X~Files. Not only are they new, but very often they are better than usual, as the· shows try to keep the most audience pos- sible. So when Kellie Martin de- cided she wanted to leave ER, the writers decided to schedule her sodes of the season. show to gain mor.e viewers. The same could be said for the Also, shows that aren'tperfoml- by Katrina Tentor Opinions Editor hour-long Friends episode that ing well .get puUecl for these weeks aired two weeks ago. The epis()de in order to make room for sh.ows asked what would have happened Jike the one mentioned abave. u Monday, February 28, 2000 the had the friends taken different anyone i& wondering what hap.,. departmentofPerfo:miing Arts pre- paths in their lives. The episode _ pened to Time of Your Life, Get .. sented \The English Madrigal\ in w~s different and exciting, anddefi- Real, Freaks andGeeks, or Sports : the Nott Memorial at 5:30PM. nitely very funny. In a season Night, that;s it. M«;>st of the time, The program was put together Where the show sometimes seems unless the network decides that with the Union College Choir, un- to havelost its steam, it was a. re- they were performing so badly that . , der the direction of Professor freshingreminderofwhyit'sstill theyshouldn'tretumatall(which . Diane McMullen and students oneofthebestcomedies onlV. is something Freaks and Geeks is · from English professor, Ruth The Who Wants to Marry a facing), they return in the weeks Stevenson's class, Shakespeare Multi-Millionaire debacle demon- following sweeps. after the 1600, .stratedmany of the problems these Look oat for the final episode Students.analyzed the text of the· sweeps months can introduce, The of Beveryly Hilts 90210. This madrigal pieces. The choir per- need for viewers often translates March will end the ten-year run of , formed all of their pieces a capella, to quick, exploitative programiniag the popular program. We've all . as did the chamber choir. like this. Tmly, all that matters to grown up with the gang from The choir, consisting of twenty- networks is numbers, andnotb.ow Beverly Hills, be sure to say good- eight undergraduates and one they·getthem. So a program w!J.ere bye. It'sone to tell your kids about! alumnus started the concert with a man watches women parade Qther than those shows, though~ \Late in my rash accounting\ by around in beachwear in order to the upcoming weeks are times of . John Wee kles. Lora lynne choose whowill become is wife is repeats with few new episodc::s. Krobetzy interpreted Weeklcs perfectly acceptable because it's a That is, until May, the next sweeps ptece. huge attention-grabber. Before the month, when you can expect all The second madrigal performed departure over these weeks so &.s revelations about the Multi- kiads of new and different stunts was John Wilbye 's \Ye restless to maximize its impact. The result- Millionaire's history of abuse aad to be pulled by the networks in or- thoughts.'' Rebecca Walsh inter- ing episodes wen; powerful and questionable fmancial assets came der to draw you in~ preted the text. The composer high- F~~~~~-~--~--~--~--~---~~-~~~~~~~~----~ l~htsfuem~n~gofawo~sand ~:< .... '='\~;:;ii.~::fA::;:::t::--~:-·:--·: ... ,_ .'_::.-..- . ...,...., ·.·:·:; ---;;-;·; phrases in the text by a particular musical gesture, called word paint- mg. Three members of the chamber · choir, Erin Zaricki, Honorah Tinti, and Mark Weblin sang ''As I went a-walking\ on the second floor of the Nott. John Mundy's English ... ·. \• \' \ ... ·1 =g~~~r:~:;o:~~;::~; <' ; :: ... - :- ,: ' .. ··; the text for the audience. As a wel1lcnown English madri- galist and influential figureofEliza- ., bethan music, Thomas Morley BIOTECHNOLOGY IS REDEFINING THE FUTURE and Biogenis at the forefront, leading the develop- ment of several important medicines including AVONEX, the most prescribed therapyin the U.S. for relapsing forms of multiple scle-rosis. One ofthe. fadors that mal<es AVONEX® uoique is the Biogen customer support organization,.a team de.dicated to helping those who use and pre~scribe the drug. By setting new standar-ds for service anll support, this remarkable team is helping to shape tile future of biotechnology. CUSTOMER SUPPORT SPECIALISTS As part of this highly visible, collabora• tive team in our Cambridge headquar-ters, • you will provide exceptional customer ser- vice on all !eve Is as y{)U counsel multiple sclerosis. patients and he:althcare profession- als on therapy and service options. Through · a six-week pmgram, specialists are trained to assess callers' needs, provide well~infom~ed answers to inquiries, track customerrequests, • and provide any necessary follow-up, You . will also inter.::race witlt external organiza- tions and.partners and il>temal departments. Requires a RS/BA in the life sciences or · communications .fields or a relevant educa- i. tiona! background in the humanities or so· · cfal sciences. A posi-tive attitud'e, listening/ • verbal/commu-nication skills, and·the abil· · ity to multi4ask are es&ential. You will be : working with.other high energy indi-viduals · in this growingdepartnient where ideas and • concepts come to life. This is your future callin2:. This opportunity offers you the chancre to : learn the biotechnology business from some · ofthe inc!ustry's most accomplished talent Plvs you 'U gain insighHnto those we sewe: . · patients 1111d theirfamili.es, medical pmfes- sionals, ph~rmacist!l, and many others. At • the same time, ihe position Offers an attr(lc- tive compensation and benefits package, in- cluding equity participati(Jn in oneofbiotech· nology's most financially sound com-panies, Answer the cail. Forward your resume to: Biogen, Inc,, Attn: Human Resources; Source Code: JR-CSS·CU, 14 Cambridge Center, Cambridge, MA 02142; Fax: (617) 679-2546; Email: resumes@.lbiogetl.com (Source Code ONLY must :appear in the sub-ject line), Biogen is an Equal Opp<>rtunity Employer. No pbonecalls, please. wWw.biogen.com wrote \Springtime mantleth every bough.\ There are rumors that Morely and Shakespeare knew eachother. There were connections made through their works, and they lived in the same parish in the .same time period. The chamber choir sang the madrigal after Sarah Delany in- terpreted Morley's piece. Motely specialized in bailetti throughout all of his pieces. After the interpretation, presented by Lotalynne Krobetzy, the choir per- formed \Though Philomela lost her love,\ with flute soloist Jennifer Huntington. Selected members from the chamber choir, juniors Allison Baum, Jennifer Huf;!tington, Risheet Patel, sophomores Karim Cruz, Collen Strait, freshmen Emily Burns, Rebecca Sallcn, Katrina Ten tor and alunmus Ed Valachovic filled the Nott in their perfomuncc of\TomotTow is the marriage day.\ Written by Weelkes, Thomas Burke explained the text that Weekles ex- presses in his composition. William Byrd, one of the oldest English madrigalists and one of the youngest madrigalists, Micheal East are often compared. Byrd's music is evident of the use of imi- tation, and is a typical of old mad- rigal styles from Italy. Shannon Conaty inteipreted Byrd's text, and the choir sang \Upon a summer's day.\ \Follow me,\ written by East, gives examples of imitative po- lyphony and sequences to empha- size his effect. Thomas Burke ana- lyzed the piece. The concert was well attended by students, faculty, staff and adminsters. Not only was it a mu- sical performance, it was a learn- ing experience about the history of old English madrigals. -...,.., ;,;,

'8' -. Page 1S • March 2, 2000 • arm:tellrmensis · S.;ience & Technology Science & Technology The Internet's Origin E-Literature by Steve Ayers Staff:Writer Few media forms ofier as much freedom as the Internet. It is decentralized and widespread, enabling large numbe.rs of users to broadcast their views and communicate with one another. Perhaps even more peculiar is the unlikely origin of the lntemet, which spent many years in its making before most of the public knew of its existence. Contrary to popular belief, the Internet was not the product of an elahorate scheme to protect military communication networks from nuclear attack. This erroneous notion came from the proposal of computer scientist Paul Baron,who came up with the idea to cr~ate a '\distributed'' communication network in the 1 960s, for just s1.1Ch a reason. Though perhaps a good idea, the idea was never implemented, and the project was officially discontinued in 19'66. This project had little actual influence on the development of the Internet itself. The Internet has its origins in the Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA). This agency was started under Eisenhower shortly after the Russian launc.h of Sputnik in 1957 .!o ensure that the United States would not be taken by surprise by future technologi- cal developments. Within this agency, the Information Proc.ess- ing Techniques Office (IPTO), headed by Bob Taylor, was char-ged with suwp·orting advances in comput]~g. This inc Juded the purchase ()f comput- ers for research facilities. At tl!e time, computerrs existed only as expensive mainframes, which: could cost m·illlicms of dollars_ They grew .obsolete every few years, necesshtating the replacement. At one poini!Taylor' s office bad three remote t-erminals, all accessing different C(}mputers and he claims that this is what made hrm see the need for some sort of widespread data 11etwork. The task of networkin_g various modelsofmainframes from differ- ent companies was a I'lerculean task at the time. This was espe- ciallytme since computc:::r network- ing was quite new at that time, and this network incorporated the rela- tively n:ew technique CJf packet switdrillg. Eventually, it incorpo- rated tile use of mini comput- ers tat tlte time DEC's PDIP)which were kn_own at the time as Inter- face Message ProceSSl()J:'S (IMP). This was the rough eq11ivalent of the modern-day Internet router. The new network, known as ARPA net. delivered wlhat some consider the first Internet message on Oct()her first, 1969, between nodes t&t UCLA and Stanford Research Institute, which was the leiters ••L\ and \0.\ TilLs was the start of the phrase \LOG IN\ and crashed the network (110 great cons.eqllence given tha;t it con- tained ()nlytwo nodes atthe time). From then on, ma.n:y of the Internet tethnologies that we are ~J familia.r with today quickly developed, including E-mail and FTP in 1972. Queen Elizabeth II by Sloan Miller Scienoe and Technology Editor sent her first E-mail in 1976. Yournextbookmay notbeabook Nonetl!eless, the popularity of this . at all. The future of literature has network waslimjtedtowell-funded ·.arrived i11 the form of electronic institutions, owi11g mainly to its ;, books. For the past two years lack ofuser friendliness. Even by SoftBook Press and NuvoMedia. 19.87, tlte number of hosts on the have been. developing revolution\ Internet was only 100,000 ary technology. SoftBook Press is It was not until the release ofthe the maker of the SoftBook Reader first Web browser in 1990 that the and NuvoMedia is the make!' ofthe Internet really took off among the generalpul>lic. We owe this to the invel'ltionofTim Berners-Lee, wl1o wrote a first version ofa program called ''[nquire Within\ in 1980 at the CERN research laboratory in Switzerland, which eventually lead to the first version of Hypertext Transfer Prot()col (HTTP) in 1990. Pel'l:ups most surprising is that Bemers-Lee diduotcopyright this !.lbiqllii()liS protocol of the World Wide Wc;:b. The following year, the number of hosts on the Internet was ()Ver one million; representing a 10-fcld increase in four years. Since then, this number has increased at an unparalleled rate. The real origins of the Internet lie n()t in the noble dream to build an it~f()nnation highway, nor i1,1 shad-y ;plans to build a secret com- munication network.The pri- mary ~motivati()n was to save money. Perhaps it is not so sur- prising that a result of such mag- nitude would have its origins in something so mundane. It is un- likelythatariyone could.have imag- ined tbe broad potential of this techn()bgy. Rocket eBook. These electronic books can store the equivalet of te.n books or . thousands .of newspaper or !llaga\ zine pages. These handheld computers allow the reader to take notes in the margins, search · documents for phrases or words, se.t bookmarks, highlight or • underline tex.tandevenchange the font size. Each electronic book can · be personalized to the reader's preferences. · Since the beginning of produc- . tion, NuvoMe<iia and SoftBook Press have had signed distribution and copyright agreements with many major book, newspaper and periodical pubLisher in the United States. These reading devices are able to receive downloaded books and periodicals over the Internet at a cost to the reader. To getan impression of the size ofthese devises here ate the sped· fications. The Rocket eBook is a twenty-two ounce, paper-bac:k sized, reading device with a four . and a half by three inch touch· sensitive screen. The Rocket eBoo'k is capable ofholdingup to 55,00() clothing outlet Save· 50% to 75% everyday on the brands you wear .--~------J 1r rtr,\ 1 rttru\\'X:·J ,rt '\)}r TL... 1~tr·· ,.\hq ''··\ .l. \:1 k\ .. ...'. \ ·' '\..I \,/.1)!,~ ~ J...~ ~ J,l..;~ I TA\~DE AH AJDDXTKON&!L llO!% OJF1F' .li\:t:\n! PU1RCJBLA\§IE I I \~!11lf!\Fl11J'i' f[fl\tjj'li~(J.. rr.~y rp~Th.T \!'\J .!l. .G. 1l:k l:L JDl JL:V tLvt.U ~1\~ I ro..-iJ!finv.l OOllllJ~ mumlt 'lMl ~lll~tMll ~ oill!~nt I EIJK.jpllbt'i&!il ;Rill~ l!M~~:IT'Q:!Jlh\ 2000 Come check out what a true outlet is all about. 30-32 Front Street., Ballston Spa CallSS5-6634 or 884-9712 tor simple direetic:ms pages of text and graphics. It has a battery life of up to forty hours of mmstop usage. The SoftB ... ook Reader is a two point nine pound, magaz:ine-sized; reading device with an eight by six-inch touch- sensitive screen.. Tlle device is capable of storing liP to 85,000 pages oftext and graphics. It has a battety-life of five hours of con- tinuous operation. (All of these specs were taken fotm the devices respe.ctive Web sites rocket· ebook.com and softbook .com.) Last Month, both. SoftBook Press and N uvoMedia were .acquired by Gemstar International Group limited. This company plans to launch a large marketing campaign within the next couple of months. The reading devices are pricey, and are being marketed to the business class, not the younger consumers. The Rocket eBook cost $1'99. The SoftBook Reader can be purchased for $599.95, or for $299.95 with an agreement to purchase $19.95 per month worth of newspapers, magazines, or books for a twenty- four month time period. This technology wi11 not likely eliminate the use ofpaper reading materials. The electronic readers will be beneficial f<>r ravenous readers, professionals who .need to stay up-to-date with tecently published materials or a business people who rummages through multiple periodicals while waiting for or on air planes. These devices willbe a convenient accessory but not a necessity.

Page 18 • March 2, 2000 • ai.munrOiensis · Science & Technology Science & Technology The Internet.,s Origin E-Literature by Steve Ayers St(~fl H ·riter ---- Few media forms offer as much freedom as the Internet. It is decentralized and widespread, enahlmg large numbers of users to hroadcast their views and communicate with one another. Perhaps even more peculiar is the unlikely origin of the Internet, wlnch spent many years in its mak1ng hcfon:- most of the public knt:w Dfits existence_ Contrary tn rorular hl'lief. the lntL'rtH.:t was not the product of an elahorak scheme to protect military communication networks from nuclear attack.This erroneous notion came from the proposal of computerscientisl Paul Baron, who came up With the idea to cr~ate a \dis tri bu ted\ communication network in the 1960s. for just such a reason. Though perhaps a good idea. the idea was never implemented. and the project was officially discontinued in 1966. This proJect had little actual influence on the development of the Internet itself. The Internet has its origins in the Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA). This agency was started under Eisenhower shortly after the Russian launch of Sputmk in 1957 to ensure that the llnited States would not be taken hy surprise hy future technologi- cal developments. Within this agency, the Information Process- ing Techniques Office ( IPTO), headed by Bob Taylor, was charged with supportiNg advances in computing. This included the purcillase of comput- ers for research facilities. At the time, computers existed only as expensive mainframes, which could C()oSt millions of dollars. They _grew obsolete every few years, necessitating the replacement. At one point Taylor's office had three remote terminals, all accessing different computers and he claims tlnat this is what made him see the need for some sort of wicie-;prcad data network. The task of networking various models of mainframes from differ- ent companies v.-as a Herculean task at the time. This was espe- cially true since computer network- ing was quite new at that time, and this network incorporated the rela- tively new techt~ique of packet switching. Evenrually, it incorpo- rated the use of mini comput- ers (at the time DF.C's PDP) which were known at tlLe time as Inter- face Message Processors (IMP). This was the roug:h equivalent of the modern-day Internet router. The new network, known as ARPA net. delivered what some conside.r the first I ntemet message on October first, 1969, between nodes at UCLA and Stanford Research Institut~. which was the letters \L\ and\'().\ This was the start of1he phrase \LOG IN\ and crashed the netll\lork (no great consequence given that it con- tained only two n01des at the time). From then on, many of the Internet technologies that we are familiar with today quickly developed, including E-mail and FTP in 1972. Queen Elizabeth II sent her first E-mail in 1976. Nonetheless, the popularity of this network was limited to well-funded institutions, owing mainly to its lack of user friendliness. Even by 1987, the number of hosts on the Internet was only I 00,000 It was not until the release of the first Web browser in 1990 that the Internet really took off among the general public. We owe this to the invention ofTim Bemers-Lee, who wrote a first version of a program called \Inquire Within\ in 1980 at the CERN research laboratory in Switzerland, which eventually lead to the first version of Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTIP) in 1990. Perhaps most surprising is that Bemers-Lee did not copyright this ubiquitous protocol of the World Wide Web. The following year, the number of hosts on the Internet was over one million, representing a 1 0-fold increase in four years. Since then, this number has increased at an unparalleled rate. The real origins of the Internet lie not in the noble dream to build an information highway, nor in shady plans to build a secret com- munication network.The pri- mary ·motivation was to save money. Perhaps it is not so sur- prising that a result of such mag- nitude would have its origins in something so mundane. It is un- likely that anyone could have imag- ined the broad potential of this technology. Save 50% to 75% everyday on the brands you -wear r - .... l ! 111 ;. ' ~7-' 1 1J~- -_n.v .. ~ ::.n·.;l!P~~-\ tt -Jl_:'J ~ h-'8 V-0'7 i-\i1! 1 t~, 1-ti:Z. lt\Jl~if-JUO·.t! ;;---, .... -:if \'l r, ..... \. 1 I' .r.. f\· •- ·_;.;, :rfJ(t\l(Tirf'il V.it.ll'\'L.~ ,... .. _~ l~'.:.\ ~•- ... '\•t••• -·~U~ ,G..,v,.,. \J' I' L·,~ • • ~_. • -' • .- -. •• ,. o.-1 \ • I ' I • II.: 'I' '-I - . \ ,._ . '~-- ~ ~ . , ·, .~1 .. :·., ~rr-·~;v I ·, __ . _·:L: .. ~J~\\...Z£.:a ---- _.,.... __ -...~ Come check out what a true outlet is all about. 30-32 Front Street, Ballston Spa Call885-6G34 or 884-9742 for simple directions by Sloan Miller Science and Technology Editor Your next book may not be a book at all. The future of literature has arrived in the form of electronic books. For the past two years SoftBook Press and NuvoMedia have been developing revolution- ary technology. SoftBook Press is the maker of the SoftBook Reader and NuvoMedia is the maker of the Rocket eBook. These electronic books can store the equivalet of ten books or thousands of newspaper or maga- zine pages. These handheld computers allow the reader to take notes iH the margins, search documents for phrases or words, set bookmarks, highlight or underline text and even change the font size. Each electronic book can be personalized to the reader's preferences. Since the beginning of produc- tion, NuvoMedia and SoftBook Press have had signed distribution and copyright agreements with many major book, newspaper and periodical publisher in the United States. These reading devices are able to receive downloaded books and periodicals over the Internet at a cost to the reader. To get an impression of the size of these devises here are the speci- fications. The Rocket eBook is a twenty-two ounce, paper-back sized, reading device with a four and a half by three inch touch- sensitive screen. The Rocket eBook is capable of holding up to 55,000 pages of text and graphics. It has a battery life of up to forty hours of nonstop l!Sage. The SoftBpok Reader is a two point nine pound, magazine-sized, reading device with an eight by six-inch touch- sensitive screen. The device is capable of storing up to 85,000 pages of text and graphics. It has a battery-life of five hours of con- tinuous operation. (All of these specs were taken form the devices respective Web sites rocket- ebook.com and softbook .com.) Last Month, both SoftBook Press and NuvoMedia were acquired by Gemstar International Group Limited. This company plans to launch a large marketing campaign within the next couple of months. The reading devices are pricey, and are being marketed to the business class, not the younger consumers. The Rocket eBook cost $199. The SoftBook Reader can be purchased for $599.95, or for $299.95 with an agreement to purchase $19.9 5 per month worth of newspapers, magazines, or books for a twenty- four month time period. This technology will not likely eliminate the use of paper reading materials. The electronic readers will be beneficial for ravenous readers, professionals whe need to stay up-to-date with recently published materials or a business people who rummages through multiple periodicals while waiting for or on air planes. These devices will be a convenient accessory but not a necessity. ' \. i '· l [·· ;- --:--, I I, I ' I j I •\ I

as a s of is a ere are for an per ing ces but ''D • • 'nrlngln. Traditional Col. Athleticism ·into the 21st Century'' ' . . . ' ,.·.· '' WUliam Smith 74 Union 53 _, . : ;;.. .... . . ......... ~ ~ .. Track Competes in State Championship by Steve Schuler Contributb~g Wirter Imagine \the wave\ at its mo:st glorious when it wraps around the angular outfield ofF en way Park in: late fall. Explosions of emotion, jumping and screaming fans, all will- ing the competitors to their peak performances. This same phenomenon is justas spectacular in th.e waning moments of collegiate track meets as the teaQl relay events are run. As the com· petitors fly around the ova,l, differ' ent sections of the building ex:- pl<Jde, filling the field house witit deafening noise and unbridled pas· sian. The athletes competing in the re· lays in this past weekend's Ne'V'I York State Division III Track and Field Championships put on a sho..-,. that merited this kind of enthusi- asm. An improbable five state rela\ records fell during th.e course of the weekend. On the women's side, host college SUNY fredonia ran a blistering 1 :49.3 in the 4x200m, Hartwick powered out a state record 4:07.7 in the 4x400m, and Hamilton set a new bench,. mark in the 4x800mwith a 9:55. In the men'srelays SUNY Geneseo's distance medley relay team ran a state record 10:24, while the 200m sprinters ofSUNY Broclcportpro- pel1ed themselves to a. record 1:33.89. ln this same event Union's Sprint team of Sophomores Atsunobu Kaneko, Gerald Whittington, Tony Fykes, and Senior Brian Roy garnered a gutsy performance. Finishin~ fourth with a time of 1 :34.98, itselfless than a second from the <lld state record, this team showed heart, incredible speed, and handoffs that would make Chicago proud. The other members of Union's squad cheered wildly as they zipped past Freshman Frank Filiciotto makes the last turn in the 4X400relay. .our place in the crowd. Roy alsoc()m- petedin thetri:ple jump, 55m high hurdles, and was a member o Union's 4x400m relay team. Other seniors competing their la~t indoor track -states 1in\' elude Stephan Bagnato, who valiantly launched ........ · \\\'\' ...... scorillg senior was Jordanna Mallach. With a jump of9'4\ 1!4, Mallach collected an admirable third place finish for the team. The most ex:citing event on Fri- day f<Jr Ulli()n fans was the men's high jtunp where three of the top seven finisheTs, and four of the top 14, sported garnet. Sophomore · ·Kris Darlm_gt<ln drove himself over the bar~ clearing 6 '3\ ~and earn- ing him a fourth place fmish. Fresh- men Chris Burns and Matt Lallier l>othleaped6'1 ' 1 1/4, securing them fifth and seventh places, respec- tively. Freshman Steve Erickson fin- ished 14of 17with a jump of5'11\ 14. Union was the only school with four ath.letesin this event. The tal- ent and yo11tn on this Union squad bode well for future success. The other top performer for Union this weekend was Kaneko, who gained an individual third p1ace finisb in the 200m dash. ICaneko;s time: of 13.46 was one tenth <Jfa. second offthe winner's 23.34. Atsualso lead offthe suc- cessful4x:20(),teamand the eighth place flnishers4x400m. Union's4-x4()i()m team ofKaneko, Wltittiltgton, Fykes, Roy, the same c.-ew that earned fourth in the File Photo Freshman Matt Lallier 011· the high jump. 4x200, lead a slew of Union \almosts finishing eighth in 3:35.3, 1.5 seconds from a scoring sixth. The Union men's 4x800m team also finished eighth, running a 8:24.68 only 0.4 from the sixtb place teams 8;24.24. This squad of Nick Jones, John Nieman, Matt Webber, and John Houghton was impressive in their consistency, all members ran between 2:05 and 2:06, equaling personal records for Jones and Houghton. In the individual 800m Junior Steven Schuler fought his way tlrrough a tough crowd to run a 2:03, less than a second from placing. In the women's 800m Freshman Katie Higley ran a 6-second personal record 2:26.87 and fmishecl seventh, a minuscule tenth of a second from scoring. Higley also pla<Jed eighth in the 400m. Higley, and Freshmen Terra Leder house, Alex Lohse, and Katie Rotmd competed in the4x200mand 4x400m. Union'sMen'sDMRterun of Freshman Frank Filiciotto, and Juniors Jeff Mor~e, Nieman, a11d Schuler also performed well in the relays. Other individual competitors f()r Union were Freshmen Joe Kelmanovich, Chris LaLonde and Round, who earned their first state meet experience. K.elrnanovich ran with a stacked 1500m field, LaLonde persevered through injury to throw the shot42'7'', and Round competed in the 5 5m dash. These rookies will no doubt be the base ofUnion Track and Field for years to come. The young Union track team is excited about the future. Talented student-athletes interested in competing this spring are encour- aged to contact anyone mentioned in this article. Although Uni()n's young men and women finished eleventh and fourteenth, respectively, out of 15 sch<Jols, we take !lolace in the fact that the future is bright. With a combination of the pas- sion exhibited in the relays, and the guts and determination shown by all our athletes, the outdoor sea- son should be a successful one. During our intra-season train- ing we will keep in mind the words our coaches have for us after ev- ery meet \tum in your uniforms tonight as soon as you get off the bus.\

gy a of ch- is a on- ese ces et- ) ans are to ket an per rs, ely ers tly but '· I :I d .I I I •\ ! 'l 1'', l i ''Bringing Traditional Coil iate Athleticism into the 21st Century'' A ·Quick Look. ~t _<: ... . . .. · -· ' ·' ., . . B9·cke~· St Lawrenee 2 Union 11 Clarkson 3 Union 2 this Week's·S·co·res~ .. ;: , . . • ~. - ' ~~ • • ·- -; l ~. :~ ~~~~ketban· ·~ · Hamilton 88 Union 84 Union-3rd out ofl4 Teams inNYS Championships William Smith 74 Union 53 . '.· ~ : : , .. <:· -~W,mming . Track Competes in State Championship by Steve Schuler Co11trihuting Wirter Imagine \the \vave\ at its most glorious wht:>n it wraps around the angular outfield ofFenway Park in late faiL Explosions of emotion. jumping and screaming fans, all will- ing the cornpetitors to their peak. performances. This same phl'nomenon is just as spectacular in the waning moments of collegiate track meets as the team relay events are run. As the com- petitors fly around the oval, differ- ent sections of the building ex- plode. filling the field house with deafening noise and unbridled pas- siOn. The athletes competing in the re· lays in this past weekend's Ne'W York State Division III Track anc:l Field Championships put on a sho'W that merited this kind of enthusi· asm. An improbable five state relay records fell during the course of the weekend. On the women's side, host college SUNY Fredonia ran a blistering 1:49.3 in the 4x200m, Hartwick powered out a state record 4:07.7 in the4x400m, and Hamilton set a new bench- mark in the4x800m with a 9:55. In the men's relays SUNY Geneseo's distance medley relay team ran a state record 10:24, while the 200m spnnters of SUNY Brockportpro- pe lied themselves to a record 1:33.89. In this same event Union's sprint team of Sophomores Atsunobu Kaneko, Gerald Whittington, Tony Fykes, and Senior Brian Roy garnered a gutsy performance. Finishing fourth with a time of 1:34.98, itself less than a second from the old state record, this team showed heart, incredible speed, and handoffs that would make Chicago proud. The other members of Union's squad cheered wildly as they zipped past Freshman Frank Filiciotto makes the last turn in the 4X400relay. our place in the crowd. Roy also com- peted in the triple jump, 55m high hurdles, and was a member of Union's 4x400m relay team. Otlter seniors competing in their last indoor track states in- clude Stephan Bagnato, who valiantly launched · in the pole vault, and Carolyn Ciesl()wski, who took 1enth in the shot put with a toss ()f 34 '1 0\ Y.t. The other scoring senior was Jordanna Mailach. With a jump of9'4\1/4 Mallach collected an admirable third place finish for the te:am. The most exciting event on Fri- day fm Union fans was the men's high jump where three of the top seven finishers, and four of the top 14, sported garnet. Sophomore Kris Darlington drove himself over the bar, clearing 6'3\% and earn- ing him a fourth place finish. Fresh- men Chris Bums and Matt Lallier both !~aped 6' 1 \1/4 securing them fifth and seventh places, respec- tively_ Freshman Steve Erickson fin- ished 14 of 17 with a jump of5' 11\ Y.t. Union was the only school with four a1hletes in this event. The tal- ent and youth on this Union squad bode well for future success. The other top performer for Union this weekend was Kaneko, who gained an individual third place finish in the 200m dash. Kaneko's time of 23.46 was one tenth CJf a second off the winner's 23.34. Atsu also lead off the suc- cessflll4x200, team and the eighth place finishers 4x400m. Uni(}n 's 4x400m team ofKaneko, Whittington, Fykes, Roy, the same crew that earned fourth in the Filr J>hoto Freshman Matt Lallier on the high jump. 4x200, lead a slew of Union \almosts fmishing eighth in 3:35.3, 1 .5 seconds from a scoring sixth. The Union men's 4x800m team also finished eighth, running a 8:24.68 only 0.4 from the sixth place teams 8:24.24. This squad of Nick Jones, John Nieman, Matt Webber, and John Houghton was impressive in their consistency, all members ran between 2:05 and 2:06, equaling personal records for Jones and Houghton. In the individual 800m Junior Steven Schuler fought his way through a tough crowd to run a 2:03, less than a second from placing. In the women's 800m Freshman Katie Higley ran a 6-second personal record 2:26.87 and finished seventh, a minuscule tenth of a second from scoring. Higley also placed eighth in the 400m. Higley, and Freshmen Terra Lederhouse, Alex Lohse, and Katie Round competed in the 4x200m and 4x400m. Union'sMen'si)MRteam of Freshman Frank Filiciotto, and Juniors Jeff Morse, Nieman, and Schuler also performed well in the relays. Other individual competitors for Union were Freshme11 Joe Kelmanovich, Chris LaLonde and Round, who earned their first state meet experience. Kelmanovich ran with a stacked 1500m field, LaLonde persevered tb.rot~gh injury t() throw the shot 42'7\ and Round competed in the 55m da.sh. These mokies will no doubt be tlte base ofUnion Track and Field for years to come. The yQung Union track team is excited about the future. Tal en ted student-athletes interested m competing this spring are encour- aged to contact anyone mentioned in this artide. Although Union's young men and women finished eleventh and fourteenth., respectively, out of 15 schools, we take solace in the fact that the future is bright. With a combination of the pas- s ion exhibited in the relays, and the guts .and determination shown by all our athletes, the outdoor sea- son should be a successful 011e. During our intra-season traitt- ing we wiiJ keep in mind the words our coaches have for us after e\'- ery meet \'tum in your unifom1s tonight as soon as you get off the bus.\

Page 20 • March 2, 2000. • aioo.corbUniii!l Sports Skating Dutchmen Extend Losing Streak to Seven Next Two Games to Determine Unio'-n ,s Fate in the Playoffs ·· by D~J. B()llk StaffWtiter It is now officiaL Union's play- off destiny will be decided in the final weekend of the regular sea- son. With two games~eft, both of which will be played on the road, the Skating Dutchmen currently hold the final ECAC playoffhirth. It's fitting that the fimrl game of the season will. be played against Brown University, tile team that is battling Union for the final playoff bid. The playoff situation could be determined before that game, how- ever, if Union wins at llarvard Uni- veFsity and Brown loses to RPI on Friday, March 3. Thi·s'Wouldguar- antee Union the final p-layoff posi- tion in the conference_ This past weekend, the Sk~ting Dutchmen battled nu!dber one St. Lawrence University- on Friday night, February 25, and Clarkson University on Saturday night, Feb- ruary 26. In the midst of a five- game losing streak, Union hoped to get back into a winn]n.g streak at Achilles Rink in.front of their home- town crowd. SOil_ Union came out press11uing of- fem;ively to start the game against St. Lawrence. FreshmanFO<rward Kris Goodjohn scored his fourth goal of the season just over six minutes inte the trrst peri<Jd. It Was an llnassisted shorthanded goal for Union as he intercepted an in- tended cross-ice pass by St. Lawrence in their own c:!e.fensive zelle and rifled a slap-shotfmmjust inside the blue-line that d:eflected off the defenseman and eluded Freshman Goaltender Gt~stafson. Uoi()n took the 1-0 lead into the second period. St. Lawrence battled ba.ck to tie the game at 1-1, but Union contin- ued to pressure. The Skating Dutchmen had two goals disal- lowed in the period, one where the goal light came on and the second when the goal hom sounded. Both goals were nullified forundeter- milled reasons by referee Mike Noeth. 1'be score remained 1-li until St. geal of the sea:son atthe t2:19·:rnark the peried off of solid pllss fro Sophnmor Def.ensema Charles S the pass into empty net a , Gustafson wa . drawn out of Hutchins also ·corded an assist. Just under s · Union's line-up .saw some ch11nges as well. Coach Kevin Sneddon elected to star:t Freshman Goalie Mark Wise b~tween the pipes in place of a struggling and fatigued Sophomore Goalie Bran- doll Snee. The start was Wise's fi r~>t of his collegiat.e career at Union, and his sixtll appearance this season. Junior Captain Jay \'ar.ady did rmt drc:-.s dtal' to a shoul- dl·r mjury. and hi~ tV.ll hnl'matcs, Sophomoll' F OT\\;)Td Doug Cl1ristianscn and Jmti or forward :\In Todd. started ihl· g. arm: on Lk·i'cnsc fm the first ti111e thts sea- Lawrence scored a go\ahead power-play goal off ofabadpen- alty by Christiansen. D()Wll 2-1, Union continued to press. With abllut four minutes left in the game, S()p-homore Forward Drew Taylor made a tremendous mo-ve on the goalie from just in front <Jftbe net, but his shot ricocheted off the croiisbar, and Union·eventlllally fell by a. score of 2-1. into the zone and ~~--------~==~----------~~ picked up a loose puck in the comer. Elizabeth DaigleiCP Junior Bry.an Yachel checks a Clarkson defender. .. Y acke I was sta- --------------------------------------\\T\'\~~~~~:::::'T:::rr:::::c~~ Wise t:ecorded 28 saV,es on 30 sh()ts in a very solid game !between the pipes. The game's atl'eodance was l ,929, which was quite a show- ing at Achilles for the Skating I )utchrm:n. 'l11c folio\\ mg night, tht Skating 11utc·hmen jumped to a !.:0 first- pni od kad. Sophomore Em.,·ard Jdf Wilson recorded hrs eighth tioned in front of tlie net, but he was kaocked down by the Clarksondefensema:n. Since Yackel was on the ice, the Clarkson de- fense left him uncovered. As soon as he rose to his skates. Anderson placed a pin-point pass right on Yackel's stick, arid Gustafson had no chance in stopping the shot. Simard recorded his second assist of the game on the goal, and Union was up. 2-0. after Olll' pt.: rind of play. Early on 111 the second period, the Skating Dutchmen were awarded a five-on-three man advantage for 45 . seconds, comple- ments of two Clarkson penalties. Uuion had its ch~nce to go up 3- 0, but couldn't do .... so, and the momen- tum seemed to shift to Clarkson's favor. The Golden Knights got on the board with about six and a half min- . utes t(l play in the se~ond period, and Uni{)n' s lead was cut to one. Clarkson scored two goals in the ·~i''>1f,,:,,;t:.)<''''h'-':n\l!J third period to win the game, 3-2. It · was a very disap- . poiuting loss in front of2,226 fans, the second highest ........ ,., .. , .. ,,,attendance at Achilles Rink aU L~-----~--------------------~--------~~-::E::li:-z-:a b:-\e-:1:-h ~D:-a-:i--:g 1;-c/-;:C~P~ season long. Junior Clark Jones tries to win the facl!'-off. After the game, a special ceremony wasbeldfor Union's two graduat- ing seniors, who both played their fmal heme game of their collegiate careers at Union. Assistant Cap- tain 4!lld Forward Ryan Campbell and <lefenseman Jeff Sproat were recognized for their stellar play while wearing garnet and white for the past four seasons. Unien. will sorely miss both of these players for their hard work, perseverance, dedi cation, leadership, and pro- duct ion for the Skat mg Dutchmen. lini()n's final weekend of the regttla.I· season. will be played on Friday, March 3, against Harvard University, and Saturday, Ma:rch 4, against Brown University. The results of this weekend will dete.nnine Union's playoffhopes . Best ofluck to th.e Skating Dutch- men, your fans wm be rooting for you!

Page 20 • March 1, 2000 • t!Inncorhlensis Sports Skating Dutchmen Extend Losing Streak to Seven Next Two Games to Determine Union's Fate in the Playoffs by D.J. Book Sru[flrriter It Is nmv otricial. ll nion's play- otT destmy \\ill ht: decided in the !\:n.d ._,,.,·1-...·rl,l <lt' the· lc\'lJI.i! ,,·.1 '-.Oil. \\'1th l\\1) ganll''> kft. hoth ',f \\hl1...'h \\Ill hl' pia;. L'd 011 thv 1 ,,.~~..!. th~c· Sk;llm~ Dutchmen dllll'illl! h<1ld tilL· tinalH '.\( · pb\ulllmth It', titt111~ th..11 the tir1al g_Jilil. <ll the ~L'a'-oll \\ill hL' played agatno.,t llrm\nl'ni\cX~Ity.tht:tl'am that 1~ ha ttlm~ l · mo11 for tht: fn1a I pb~ o ll htd. I he playolf srtuat1o11 Cllllld ht\ <ktnmmed he fon: that gJI1lL'. hm\- t.'\ t.T. 1ft· n 1011 '' 111s ~~ ll~r..-ard l 'nt- \L'tsJty and l3rm'\ nloses to R.PI on htday. \larch 3. This would guar- ;Jll!L'e l'mon the final pbyo!Tposi- IIDn lll the confert:ncc:. This past weekend. the Sk;:ting Dutchmen hattlcd number one St. lawrence University on Fnday mght. February 25, and Clarkson l !niversity on Saturday mght, Feb- ruary 2(L In the midst of a five- game losing streak, Umon hoped to get back int() a winning streak at Achilles Rinki n front of their home- town crowd. trnion's line-up saw some changes as IVell. Coach Kevin Sneddon elected to start Freshman Goalie Mark Wise between the p1pes in place of a struggling and fatigued Sophomore Goalte Bran- don Snee. ·rhe start was Wise's first of Ins collegiate career at limon, and h1s sixth appearance this season. Junior Captain Jay \arady d1d rwt dres~ due to a ~boul­ der mjury, and his two lmemates, SophonHlte Fnl\\ ard Doug < 'hri~tlansL'I1 <JJH.I JunHH Forward Alex Todd. s tarteJ the uame on ~· tkknse for the first time this sea- son. Union came 01:1t pressuring of- fensively to start the game against St. LawreNce. Freshman FofVIard Kris Goodjohn scored his fou.Jth goal of the season just over six lllJillliL''> mtu the lit ~I period_ It \\a~ Jllllll<.~s~isted shorthanded goal for l 111011 as he Intercepted an in- tended ...:ros;,-JL'L' pass by St. I a\HL'tl(c 111 tht:lr 0\1\11 Jdt.:mive /llllL' .. md ullt:d a ;,lap-~hut ftOlllJ ust ms1de the blue-line that de fleeted off the deknseman and eluded 1-J eshman Goaltender Gustafson. l · nwn took the 1-0 k:ad into the ~t:cond period. St. Lawrence hauled back to tie the game at 1-1. but Union cont in- LIL'd to pressure. The Skating Dutchmen had tv .. o goals disal- lowl'd in thr: period, one where the goal light came on and the second when the goal hom sounded. Both goals were nulli tied for undeter- mined reasons by referee Mike Noeth. The score remained 1- i until St. goal of the season at the 12:1'9rnark the period off of a solid pass from Sophomore Defenseman Chark~ S1m<.~rJ. Simard faked a I slap-shot from the 1 pomt and passed i the puck to a wide-· open \\' tls.on 111 '·\'···~····\''\n·· front of the net. Wilson redirected the pas~ in to the empty net as Gustafson \Vas drawn out of his cage. Sophomore forward Jeff Hutchins also re- corded an assist. Just under six I Lawrence scored il go-ahead power-play goal off o.f a bad pen- alty by Christiansen. Down 2-1, lin ion continued to press. With about four minutes left in the game, Sophomore Forward Drew Taylor made a tremendous move on the goalie from just in frout of the Tlet, but his shot ricocheted off the crossbar, and Union eventually fell by a score of2- L minutes later, Jun- ., ior Forward Bryan Yackel scored his third tally of the season off of an- other incredible pass, this time off the stick of Junior Forward Mason Anderson. Anderson raced into the zone and ~----------~~~------------~~ picked up a loose puck in the comer. E lizab ctll I> a i gle/CP Jw1ior Bryan Yachel checks a Clarkson defem(er. Yackel was sta------------------------------------------.-------------------------. Wise recorded 28 saves on 30 shots in a very so lid game between the pipes. The game's attendance was 1,929, which was quite a sh()w- mg at Achilles for the Skattng Dutchmen. 'll1e following night, the Skating Dutchmen JUmped to a 2-0 first- period lead. Sophomme Forward Jeff Wilson recorded his eighth tioned in front of the net, but he was knocked down by the Clarksondefenseman. Since Yackel was on the ice, the Clarkson de- fense left him uncovered. As soon as he rose to his skates, Anderson placed a pin-pomt pass right on Yackel's stick. and Gustafson had no chance in stopping the shot. Simard recorded his second assist ofthe game on the goaL and Union was up. 2-0. after one period of play. Farlv nn in the second penod. the Skating Dutchmen were awarded a five-on-three man advantage for 45 seconds. comple- ments of two ( 'larkson penalties. Union had tts ch~nce to go up 3- o. but couldn ·t do so, and the momen- tum seemed to shift to ( 'larkson' s favor. The Golden Knights got on the board wtth about six and a half min- utes to play in the second period, and Union's lead was cut to one. ClarkstJn scored two goals in the third period to win the game, 3-2. It was a very disap- pointing loss in front of2,226 fans, the second highest attendance at Achilles Rink all ------------------------~ Elizabeth Daigle/CP season long_ was held for Union's two graduat- ing seniors, who both played their fmal home game of their collegiate careers at Union. Assistant Cap- tain and Forward Ryan Campbell and defenseman Jeff Sproat were recognized for their stellar play while wearing garnet and white for the past four seasons. Union will sorely miss both of these players forth e1 r hard work, perseverance, dedication, leadership, and pro- duction for the Skating Dutchmen. Union's final weekend of the regular season will be played on Friday, March 3, against Harvard University, and Saturday. March 4, against Brown University. The results of this weekend will determine Union's playoff hopes. Best ofluck to the Skating Dutch- men, your fans will be rooting for you! After tlae Whistle one point ia four of five games, amassing ssists in those games ... J has recorded three one assist in his last 10 ~ .• u ........ Charles Simard rF>t·nr..-'\\\' o more assists on Sa gainst Clarkson, giving hi on the season and with Jeff Sp-roat for the ...Kris Goodjohn's goal against St. Lawrence nrriii\PI personal te11-game and it was his f:trst \'\'~''TT-' .Junior Clark Jones tries to win theface-off. After the game, a special ceremony

•rts SpQr.ts . . . , . . . Ctr.ttUtil~Mensis • March 2, 2000 ~-Page 21 Union Club Hockey Falls to Skidmore, 13-8 by Micbael S. McGuire Copy Editor The Uni<'m Men's Club Hockey game was yet another high..,scor- ing affair this week as Union hosted Skidmore College at Achil- lesRink: on Thursday, February 24. The game would prove to be far more physical th.an last week's rol:lt ofRPI, however Union would not finish on top this tim~, falling, 13- 8. There was some ptegame con- troversy as Union tried to find someone to mind the net, and in the end the task would fall to Chris Plant, who put forth a truly heroic effort. At 4:09 into the ~p.ening period, Captain Craig Gihnore scored after making a nice move to beat the defender. Sadly. Union's 1~0 lead would be their only one of the game. Ryan Martin was all over the ice trying to make things hap- pen, but Skidmore would soon tie the game at one. ficult stretch for the boisterous crowd that had come to watch their ebony-clad friends. There was a tense moment when Plant's mo- mentum after making a sa;ve <:ar- ried him out of the net, and the puck lay still in fwnt of the empty goal. Skidmore did not capitalize on the Forward Scott Gedney, clearly try- ing to regain the momentum for his team, was called for cross-check- ing with 6 :45 to go _!Jefore the first Intermission. Skidmore scored twice more· before the period was .done, and Union trailed, 5-l, at the end of·the first period. later, but the determined Union s.quad would not go down without a fight. Trailing, 6-2, the home team would score three goals in less than two minutes. First, Slitt scored, followed by Gilmore off of a nice feed from Slitt, and finally Slcidmore would extend the lead to 7~5with 12:47toplayintheperiod. That goal may have been the turning point in the game, as the visitors would score three more unanswered goals before Slitt at- tempted to turn the tide back in U11ion' s favor again, completing the hat trick with 7:50 to go in the second. Ben Foster followed with his sec· ond goal of the game at 6:34, prov- ing there's more to the \Goon Line\ than putting the hurt on, and Union trailed, 10-7. Skidmore W<JU!d score again, however, re- gaining the momentum, and Union W<Ju!d be unable to capitalize on a late power play. At the end of the second period the score was Skidmore 11, Union 7. The next several mb;mtes would be marked by one bone crushing hit after another. First, Mike Slitt, put a huge hit on one ofhis oppo- nents against the glass between the two benches. Then, Martin gave up the body~ pounding a blue- clad rival so hard that both would fal1 to the ice. Gilmore maintained Union's momentum, nearly tossing an opposing skater into the Union bench. Elizabeth DaiglefCP The Union Club Hockey team will re-match Skidmore tonight. The third period would see less scoring than the previous two, but Skidmore would strike first With 16:55 to go in the game, Skidmore extended its lead to 12-7. Two min- utes later, Foster was looking for a hat trick of his own, yet he was denied. However, Rob McGregor found the back .of the net with the rebound. Sadly, that would be the last goal Union could muster. With 10:10 to go, however, Skidmore would end the scoring, beating Plant and making the fmal score 13- 8. . The intense physical play and Union's physical play did not translate into goals, however, and what would follow would be· a dif· opportunity. Just a few short mo- ments later, however, iirey would score two goals in ten seconds. With 7:16rema:itring, the scorewas · Skidmore 3, Union 1: Union would not be able to catch a. break for the rest of the period. Union•s only major rally of the evening w<Juld take place in the first half of the second period. Martin opened play with a scoring chance, and then lfnion scored just thirty- three seco11:.ds into the period. Skidmore answered two minutes Ben Foster, and Union was back within ()ne, 6-5. Tempers would soon begin to flare, and 5:09 into .the period Ben Male got into a fight, and Union would have to skate a man down. The extra pen- alty would prove costly, and twenty-one goals scored made this an exciting game to attend. Unfor- tunately the home team couldn't pull this one out. They have the chance for redemption tonight at 9:0() PM in Achilles Rink, when they again host Skidmore. _,-.:, '- • ,-~ • l. ~ ~-.-.> .. -~-- .. '.<·: -~--_,.:_:~:--~~-i;;\:~~~~~-::·,:?, \:'WI~!J .··· ·U,pitate.~ . . '\::.~ .. ·.-_\\:::~) ::;.~. ·--._~ .. ·~ :.· . •; .. _ by Da-vid C. Brooks Editor-in-Chief Last Friday, the Shooting Dutcltmen traveled to Hamilton for the Final Four of the UCAA Tournament In the ftrst meeting at Jlamilton, Union lost by two points. At Memorial Fieldhouse in January,, the Continentals beat Union by nine points. Just like the two previous meetings, Hamilton was able to hang on and defeat the Dutchmen by a narrow four points, 88- 84. Ryan Munay led the team with 22 poinft! as weli as a team lligh 10 rebounds. C.J. Rodgers had 19points while captainsZena Woldeyesus and Dave :Copeland chipped in with 15 and iO pElints respectively_ Hamilton jumped out to an early lead and led 43-34 atthe btealt. ltwas Hamiltonsupe~ · rior thtee~point shooting (11-29) that kept Union from taking control of the gam€. The Shooting Dutclune11 hit only five three~ in the game, but still nianagea to sQ.oot jqst 'under 50% from the floor. . · Wifh the game tied with one !Timute re- maining, the Dutcluriencotild notke~p con- trol of the ball, and sul>sequently lost their third straight to Ifamiltori. . Despite the loss, Ortk:m received an ECAC bid. They were given the siXth seed lii t4e toumarn~nt that began last night Ulii.on traveied tCI Rensse1aedn a h:lgh in.tensity ECAC.playoffgame, · · The jnvitation t():J:h,e ECAC to~arnent marked the flrstt~e .that Union W!\S'mV,ited to hack to back playoff berths since the 1974·1975./1975-1976 campaign. Last year, the Dutchmen lost in .a shollt- out to New Paltz in the fnst-round of the ECACTon,rnarn.ent. The 15-11 record also marks the fusttime Onion had consecutive winning season.since 1981-1982'/1982-1'983 seasons. . Adam Polcmsky ddves to the bask¢t ill Jas(Tu,esd.a)ts playoff win at{afnst H obqrt. - - ' ... .... '- 1 \ . · .. · __ , by Rachel Bukowski Sports Editor On Friday night, February 25, the Union College Women's Basketball Team ended their 1999-2000 season at William Smith Col- lege in the UCAA Tournament Final Fom. In the fust round of the tourney, Union de- feated Clarkson University, 72-47, and ad- vanced to the semifmals to face the William Smith Herons. The winner of this game would advance to the finals of the UCAA tournament, where they would face St. Lawrence University the following day. St. Lawrence had defeated. Hamilton College in their semifmal contest, 7349. In their two previous meetings, William Smith had defeated Union in both games by scores of85-58 on December 10 and 71-58 on February 19, respectively. The underdog Dutchwomen were look- ing to pu11 off the upset against the Herons, and they made a truly valiant effort on the court on Friday. They kept the game com- petitive, but could not pull ahead in the end, and the Herons prevailed, 74-53, thus end- ing the Dutchwomen' s season. Union managed to stay with William Smith and kept the score close llntil midway through the first half. The score was 1 7-16, Herons leading, and the Dutchwomen fell apart. William Smith went on a 13-0 scoring streak to give them a 30-16lead at the half. The Dutchwomen came into the second half, down by only fourteen points, but this deficit proved too great for Union. They fought hard l>ut were unable to overcome tile tough William Smith defense and thus ended their season. Sophomore Katie Smith led the scoring with an increclible 25 points, more than half of Union's f()tal points. Heather Bennett chipped in ten blocks and twelve rebounds to the team effort. Following the conclusion of the UCAA Tournament in which St. Lawrence emerged vitorious, 60-57, Senior Leah Oliveri and Jun- ior Elizabeth Perry were named to the UCAA All-Academic Team while Smith was named to the All-UCAA Tournament Team. St. Lawrence received an automatic bid to the NCAA Divisi()n Three finals. Despite the loss, the Dutchwomen were far from disappointed with their season, as they made it all the way to the final four, a significant improvement over last year's fm- ish. The Union squad is also a very young team, as they are graduating only one se- nior, Captain Leah Oliveri. Oliveri will be missed by the Dutch women, as she has been a key aspect of their offensive unit, record- ing her monumental 1 ooom point this year on Ja11uary 11 at Hamilton. The Shooting Dutchwomen fmished their seaspn with a 13-13 overall record and a 5-7 record in the UCAA, .giving them fourth place in the league.

)ftS ,I ! Sports (l]:oncormeu~is • March 2, 200() • Page 21 Union Club Hockey Falls to Skidmore., 13-8 by Mi(hael S. McGuire Copy Editor The Union Men's Club Hockey game was yet another high-scor- ing affair this week as Union hosted Skidmore College at Achil- les Rink on Thursday, February 24. I ht: gam~: would prove to be far more physiLalthan last week's rout of RPL however Union would not finish on top this time, falling, 13- K There was some pregame con- troversy as Union tried to find someone to mind the net, and in the end the task would fall to Chris P !ant, who put fo11h a tmly heroic e1fcm. At 4:09 into the opening period, Captain Craig Gilmore scored after making a nice move to beat the defender. Sadly, Union's 1-0 lead would be their only one of the game. Ryan Martin was all over the ice trying to make things hap- pen, but Skidmore would soon tie the game at one. ficult st~:etch for the boisterous crowd that had come to watch their ebony-clad frieNds. There was a tense moment when Plant's mo- mentum after making a save car- ried him out of the net, and the puck lay still in front of the empty goal. Skidmore did not capitalize on the Forwa.rd Scout Gedney, clearly try- ing to regain the momentum for his team, was called for cross-check- ing with 6:45 to go before the first internission. Skidmore scored twice :more before the period was done, and Union trailed, 5-l, at the em.d of the first period. later, but the determined Union squad would not go down without a fight. Trailing, 6-2, the home team would score three goals in less than two minutes. First, Slitt scored, followed by Gilmore off of a nice feed from SJ.itt, and finally Skidmore would e:<tend the lead to 7-5 with 12:47 to pLay i.t1 the penod. That goal may have been the turning pomt in tlte game, as the l'isitors would score three more unanswered goals before Slitt at- tempted to turn the tide back 1t1 Union's favor again, completmg the hat tril·k 11 ith .... \'II tn c'n Ill !h·: St:L' l)(1l{. Ben h1~ter filllm1nl '' Ith h1:-. :-.e~_·. ond goal of the gamL' at (,:_'1--f, pru\- i11g t.hnc's more Ill thL' \Cinon I inc\ than putting tilL' hurtun, ..111d l' nion trailed, I(). \7. Skidmore would score ag~in. however, TL'· gammg the mm1Jentum. and {·niDI! \\ ou ld he una hie to r.:api ta II...:e on a Ia te po\\er play. At the L·nd of tlh: se-cond perwd the score \\ J~ Skidmore I 1. l\mon 7. The next several minutes would be marked by one bone crushing hit after another. First, Mike Slitt. put a huge hit on one of his oppo- nents against the glass between the two benches. Then, Martin gave up the body, pounding a blue- clad rival so hard that both would fall to the ice. Gilmore maintained Union's momentum, nearly tossing an opposing skater into the Union bench. Elizabeth Daigle/CP The Union Club Hockey team wilf re-match Skidmore tonight_ The third period -..muld see less scoring than the prn 1ous I\\ o, hut Skidrnnre would st1 ike fir~t. \\\ nh 16:55 to g1l 111 the g:t lllt'. Skidmore extendeditsleadto 12-7. Twomm- utes later, fosterwa5looking for a hat trick of his O\\ll, yd he was denied. However, R.ob :vtcGregor found the back of the net with the rebound. Sadly, that would be the last goal Union could muster. With I 0: 10 to go, howe\..'er, Skidmore would end the SC()ring, beating Plant and making the- fmal score 13- 8. Union's physical play did not translate into goals, however, and w 11at would follow would be a dif- opportunity. Just a few short mo- ments later, however, they would score two goals in ten seconds. With 7: 16 remaining, the scme was Skidmore 3, Union 1. Union would not be able to catch a break for the rest of the period. Union's only major rally of the evening would take place in the first half of the second period. Martin opened play with a scoring chance, and then Union scored just thirty- three seconds into the period. Skidmore answered two minutes Ben Foster, and Union was back within one, 6-5. Tempers would soon begin to flare, and 5:09 into the period Ben Male got into a fight, and Union would have to skate a man down. The extra pen- alty would prove costly, and The intense phy~ical play and twenty-one goals scored made this an exciting game to attend. Unfor- tunately the home team couldn't pull this one out. They have the chance for redemption tonight at 9:00PM in Achilles Rink, when they again host Skidmore . Men's Basketball Update ... by David C. Brooks Editor-in- Chief Last Friday, the Shooting Dutchmen traveled to Hamilton for the Final Four of the UCAA Tournament. In the first meeting at Hamilton, Union lost by two points. At Memorial Fieldhouse in January, the Continentals beat Union by nine points. Just like the two previous meetings, Hamilton was able to hang on and defeat the Dutchmen by a narrow four points, 88- 84. Ryan Murray led the team with 22 points as well as a team high I 0 rebounds. C.J. Rodgers had 19 points while captains Zena W oldeyesus and Dave Copeland chipped in with 15 and 10 points respectively. Hamilton jumped out to an early lead and led 43-34 at the break. It was Hamilton supe- rior three-point shooting ( 11-29) that kept Union from taking control of the game. The Shooting Dutchmen hit only five threes in the game, but still managed to shoot just under 50% from the floor. With the game tied with one minute re- maining, the Dutchmen could not keep con- trol of the ball, and subsequently lost their third straight to Hamilton. Despite the loss, Union received an ECAC bid. They were given the sixth seed in the tournament that began last night. Union traveled to Rensselaer in a high intensity ECAC playoff game. The invitation to the ECAC tournament marked the first time that Union was invited to back to back playoff berths since the 197 4-197 5 I 1975-197 6 campaign. Last year, the Dutchmen lost in a shoot- out to New Pa1tz in the first-round of the ECACTournament. The 15-11 recordalso marks the first time Union had consecutive winning season since 1981-1982/1982-1983 seasons. Adam Polansky drives to the basket in last Tuesday's playoff win against Hobart. Women's Basketball Update ... by Rachel Bukowski Sports Editor On Friday night, February 25, the Union College Women's Basketball Team ended their 1999-2000 season at William Smith Col- lege in the UCAA Tournament Final Fow. In the first round of the tourney. Union de- feated Clarkson University, 72-47, and ad- vanced to the semifinals to face the William Smith Herons. The winner of this game would advance to the fmals of the UCAA tournament, where they would face St. Lawrence University the following day. St. Lawrence had defeated Hamilton College in their semifmal contest, 73-49. In their two previous meetings, William Smith had defeated Union in both games by scores of85-58 on December 10 and 71-58 on Febmary 19, respectively. The underdog Dutchwomen were look- ing to pull off the upset against the Herons, and they made a truly valiant effort on the court on Friday. They kept the game com- petitive, but could not pull ahead in the end, and the Herons prevailed, 74-53, thus end- ing the Dutchwomen's season. Union managed to stay with William Snuth and kept the score close until midway through the first half. The score was 17-16, Herons leading, and the Dutchwomen fell apart. William Smith wen ton a 13-0 scoring streak to give them a 30-161ead at the ha If. The Dutchwomen came int-o the second half, down by only fou11een points, but this deficit proved too great for Union. They fought hard but were unable to overcome the tough William Smith deftnse and thus ended their season. Sophomore Katie Smith led the scoring with an incredible 25 points, more than half of Union's total points. Heather Bennett chipped in tt:n blocks and twelve rebounds to the team effort. Following the conclusion o-f the UC AA Tournament in which St. Lawr~nce emerged vitorious, 60-57, Senior Leah 01 iveri and Jun- ior Elizabeth Perry were named to the l!CAA All-Academic Team while Smith was named to the All-UCAA Tournamellt Team. St. Lawrence received an automatic bid to the NCAA Division Three finals. Despite the loss, the Dutchwomen wen~ far from disappointed with their season, as they made it all the way to the final four, a significant improvement over last year's fin- ish. The Union squad is also a very young team, as they arc graduating only one se- nior, Captain Leah Oliveri. 0 liwri \\·if I he missed by the Dutch women, as; she has been a key aspect of their offensive unit, record- ing her monumental 1 ooo•h point this year on January 1 1 at Hamilton. The Shooting Duh.:hwomen fin1shed their season with a U-U on:rall rtx Md and a 5-7 record in the UCAA, givmg them fourth place in the league.

Page 22 • March 2, 2000 • Ql.ll:ltt.crrbiensi£S Sports Men's Swimming Finishes Third in State Tourney by Thatcher V\ oodley Staff Writer The Union College Swimming Dutc;hmen ended their season this past weekend at the New York State Championships held at Hamilton College. The Dutchmen entered the meet with a 1 \9 overall record, yet they had high hopes for this highly competitive meet. Union arrived at the pool on Wednesday afternoon for warm- up, and the competition started early the :-text morning with prelimi- naries ,in the 200 Freestyle Relay, the 400 Individual Medley, the 50 Freestyle, the 500 Freestyle and the 400 Medley Relay. The team cheers are started at about 10:00 AM and the 200 Freestyle Relay dove in at 10:30. L lmon swam a number of exciting races in themoming. After the 200 Freestyle Rday swam that mom- mg, they were seeded fourth go- mg mto the night session and sev- eral swimmers made it back to fi- nals in thetr respective individual events. The 400 Medley ended the mom\ mg session with an incredible race. Nathaniel Martin led off the relay consisting of Senior Rob Kirkman, Sophomore Kyle Shack, and Fresh- man Ridgely Harrison, with a 53.37 in his backstroke leg of the race. This split is an NC' AA national B- cut. which a!Jows·-him to be con- sidered for the national meet in a month. It wasn't until that night that the Dutchmen b~gan td falter. Onion did not swimas weUin1l1ursday's night session as they had in pre- lims that morning. The finals of events at night are the sessions where teams have the opportunity to score points. Thus, by swimming poorly during a night session, a team could ruin their included; Smythe swimming to a chances for a high-scoring meet. third place finish in· the 200 After the first two events, Union Fteesty le and Martin placing forth was in a dism~l tenth place and the in the 100 Backstroke anc;l eighth morale of the team d.ropped in the 200 F•teestyle: quickly. Union actually swam No race on Friday night, how ... · slower Thursday night than they ever,couldcompate):oUbion's800 had that morning. Frees'cyle Relzy. Withtwt:J last-sec- The divers that bailed Union out ond changes during the minutes that evening, just as they had In leading up to the relay nobody was the dual meets over the course of reallysure·who was going to swim the season. in the relay: The fans were shocked that Martin led the relay off and w~s Union was in tenth as the Dutch- behim.d the field almost from the men have been. a powerhouse in start. Slowly but surely Martin the league for years·. \This just crept up on the competition. He isn'toursession.\sometnembers ended up splitting a 1:46.1. of the team stated. Others blamed Hanison swam second and also it on the team and their lack of ef- splita l :46.5. fort. Freshman Steve Eberlien, who The divers dropped in their hadbeen suffering from.the stom~ places from what they were seeded ach f1 u all· wee~end, dove in. that morning, but they still scored Eber 1ein had his best swim of the more than any other team in the meet and split a 1:45.1, which was· event. This boosted Union in the his second fastest standings. At the close of finals time ever in that on Thursday night, Union was in event. fifth and just a few points behind Anchoring the the third place team. relay was Smythe, The Friday morning session is who split an in- exciting as a number of Union credible 1:42.32 in swimmers swam times fast enough the midst of bat- to qualify them for finals that night. tling other relay Kirkman was seeded eighth in the teams from rival lOO Breaststroke and Martin was schools. Union seeded fifth in the I 00 Backstroke placed second in and the 200 Freestyle. Senior Cap- the re Ia y with a tain Clark Smythe also qualified for time of 7:00.44, finals in the 200 Freestyle. which qualified the ··Friday night was the real test, as relay for Nationals Uni.on needed to come back at witll a B-cut. At night and shine this year like it had the dose of finals in the past. TI1e evening started . on Saturday p.giht, out on a positive note as Fresh- . Union wa§ in · man John Vandervoort dropped fourth, only half a four seconds from this preliminary point be hind qualifying time in the 400 Individual Lemoyne. Medley. His swim was fast enough Saturday was to win his heat and start the mo- the last day o ~£=.\\\\\\~\\\'\'\\\-~ mentum ball rolling. States, and despite Other highlights of the evening being tired and . -- - -· . . . . riffey, Jr. Returns to Hometown \1ne Kid\ is known for his sweet fint day of his spring training · by VinodVioleti home-nin swing apd his skillful wltb'tbe Chicago WhlteS6}t six Staff Wi . . r. iter fielding, that earne.d him a total of ye~rs agb. Though Michael Jot:- ten 's'tralght gOlden gloves: . damhat:L~nore :reporters~d·cam­ That' s right- having shown up Undoubtedly, Griffey believes that ei-as on the sc;e11ethaJ?. Griffey did, . earing blue in. Seattle, Washing- his trade. has made his career all. he'Wa~·sti11 perf>leXed byihe num- on fot the last eleven years, Ken the.sweeter, \This' is somethlDg I ~ be~:.:og-~media perso-nne.l wlto . riffey, Jr- is sporting a change of dreamed about as a little kid, being sb~~ed.\UP io rec~iye,:him ,on tyle due to his recent trade to the back in my hometown where I · : .M~~day~ : ·; · .... · · .·.·. ·~··;; .. 1 ·., .·.; .;: incinnatiReds, On February 10. -watchedsonian;y'greatpJaye~s·::! .· ... ··• :J~owe,of~Grif!ey?~~~1~:. e nine-time All-Star was traded Meanwhile, the city of Cincin., :n:iates':w:~evel).mc)t¢:e4CJ.ledthatl. or four players: pitcher Brett nati has never been mote excited •· \l.~'cwa.S;: ;.~~~1s>.1fii;ittsi:tittle:: . omko and outfielder Mike ab?ut the ne~g of spring train~- :: 'rie~t~¢Mil~~~~c<>il,f\et~~9e arne ron, along with two other mi- ing. Over 200 people were on s~~ . : .thf~~~.~Xl::~a.~ilny~k.in;'~Itts · or league pl~yers. . · to greet their new hero. as; heJu::: .. ~;·.J~jpg:~:'9ea.oU:cu~~;J::m~,bli;t., The 30-year'-old Griffey has rivedattbe.a.irpott,wNJeo~e~p~f ·;\y~: 1 ~,~J9P,~J~~~\t9'it'(· .. ~ e~medaboutthisday ever since up''Welcome]j:ome·~sigi}$.1\.Jlov:et'·.,·,·i~IP~itq}Y;~,.unt~·\Y:b-~:_jv~·WJ~~ e was a little boy .. Having grown tlie,~lace. Re4§' faus•bell~e'·that\t:1b~$:~tfip\Usig.idfu.~J~~ttll.eli'm~ . pin Cincinnati,.Grilfey,Jr; Watched . the lille-up wtill be ille l1¢st ey~r ,i . ~t1~t.~.itl,l~~2 :~9:4it~t~.~~ :Jvl~~k; is father, _Ken Griffey ~.sr.;:as th~ s~~·~e' ~?70:~$ .. •· ': .. : .· ·.· .• ;:~'' iL:. ··.· ;l;·::~~~~~ ~*'i'*:l~u~\1t~$.~~~t:' . amous B1g,Red Machin~ ~~s ~t . · ~~mg~tppse ~b.o·'~~i!lb~ .. ,t.'·\ l.fi~~~~:~~~~:~~~:::fl?u:J,~.?Y~~ ts peak. After eleven years~ of_. c~nt~P~Yl:tJ$, Qn'ff~Y/~t~;l'J~r.-;.;Y!/,~.~.qt~c~~!.~lk~.)V·~~tp~ ... aseball with the Seattle Mariners, Larldn,· Se~n· Casey an,d .Daht~• ... r:.A'CltQUE~;J;h~~s e:V~greaterhe· r:i~!:rbe~~~:-:;y.~~~= ·!!~~~~~~~~vtl\~~:m•~~J~. ~oach for the Reds and a·prosp~c ... clut~h;;gal,ne~ c6~p~aJ11e t~Jli~.'t: i.::!J;:h~:li{a,ti()~_t;~~~~)s.¢entra:l ~ , iv~::;~~r~ftenreg .. ~ded. ~~ •. o. ~ ;. !! 9 ~n.:~;.:r~.~~.r.;~.·~·!··.· ... ~ .. m··.·.w··.··.~.·.nt·v·.·· ~. r-.h.-:.(.~: ..• ·,~·:··.~ .. ,r.:$.,~.:~.••·.·· .. ~.·.~.; ... • .. ~ •.. ·.·~.;.·~.;~ .. ; .• : .. •~~.w..:~.~.·.::.~·ne .. ;·~.~~m.ertll .. ,·.·~ .. :.•.·.·~ .. ~ .. ··~~.~.;~.::.t'. f the best players to· ever have· .. they :lost. ·' :,'< ,,; . , ; -~>>';·:·: .,;:,:,;. ::.•~,~~:·~en~~-ft:~Y)':Jr~ .. ~lJOUll'llg tepped up to the p1ate. ae- is eri . :. Monday. w~s .thtdiiSt:: $\.j.! iit::::: J:t~~~l!U:tt'1:®ampiQns :;Mark route to breaking Hank Aarol!'s · spring ~ah,Uu.g: fQt·th~:Re.~~~t~;~ :i~X~~V{ir~.1i.~tlie,~~· ·~()~:(;,at;d!., ~~reer home.· run record of752·· ·Jn > • Sar~SQ.ta · .. Spotf$, :,9,o.1JlpJ~x .. ~'. ';' ll~~~:~d(;~s~s~ 'CUl:i~'· .s~m!tlr . . ddition to his 398 home:-runs, · Flon~f. :A press oo:nfetenc~ ~.:,,. ,':~~~~:~~.QJ;t~ rq,t>rt~t (l~ettt¥J riffey.isa .29& I!fetipl~·~~~;~f!l.·. ne~, ~· ,~··~st.~~~~lW,,f,~~:~~·¥: . ' ~p:~t,.~P.'~ .. :;t~e<~L.:C,~n~~ 1,152 Rars o~¢r .. tlie pe~?~ s>f'· --~~~pl~a~·~P.~~\W~~h~~t.~~tf:;: . .~\~~e4~~i):Q~~~~ )even S.e~s9ps< ~pt.,~nlY. ·wa-s :., ad.W$i< :, S& ~llihf~ n.c: ·'Ql'Jt,~> \, ··. ~~~. -· :·:J~,·;: ... , , . ·: · · · sore, the Dutchmen manged to pull through with a number of outstading performances and sea- son-best tirnes. The swimmers knew that they had an opportunity to place third overall, which, con- sidering their season, would be an great.accomplishment. Once again, Union swam well in the morning, thus setting up a great evening. The entire team stepped up their performances and they were ready for the competition en· tering the finals that night. The final session on Saturday night seemed to have more energy than the previous five sessions combined. The cheering was so loud that one had to yell just to be heard. Union has several top eight fm- is-hes. The most exciting event turned out to be 3-meter diving, as Senior Adam Hershman finished in second and Eric Seholm fmished in fourth. Fol'lowing the diving, was the final event, the 400 Freestyle Relay. . As long as the Dutchman relay was not disqualified it looked as if Union would claim it's third place position. The relay, consisting of Martin, Kirkman, Eberlein and Smythe,. prevailed, finishing third overall. Thisfinishclinchedathird pla(;e fmish for Union. Although the weekend techni- cally bdonged to Hamilton, who won the New York State Tourna- ment by a landslide, the Dutcbmen went home feeling like thekings of the world. The progressio!l from the beginning of the season to the end of the season was remarkable as- they pulled out a hard-fought and well-earned third place fmish. They look towards the addition of a number of talented freshmen. Senior Rob Kirkman swirns in the final of the I 00 Breaststroke. - -- - - - ~~ - -- - -- ~ ~ --·- -- -- ........._-- _,__-- - - ... - - - ... - - - \\ - - ~ - - .. - ........ - ............... - ......... - - - - - - ...... - .... - - - - - .. - ~ .. ~ ..... - ' - - ~ I· I I

Page 22 • March 2, 2000 • O:muodrieusis Sports Men's Swimming Finishes Third in State Tourney by Thatcher\' QOttley Staf(Writl'r The Union College Swimming Dutchmen ended their season this past weekend at the New York State CJ1ampionships held at Hamilton College. The Dutchmen entered tile meet with a 1-9 overall record, yet they had high hopes for this highly competitive meet. Union arrived at the pool on Wednesday afternoon for warm- up, and the compelltion started early the next moming with prelimi- naries in the 200 freestyle Relay, the 400 Individual Medley, the 50 Freestyle. the 500 Freestyle and the 4 00 Medley Relay. '1 he team c beers are started at a hout 10:00 AM and the 200 Freestyle Rt.:lay dove 111 at 10:30. l 'nmn S\\ am a number of exciting races m the mommg. A tier the 200 Frt.:estylt: Relay S\\am that mnrn- rng. they \\ere seeded fourth go- rng mto the night sesstnn and sev- nal S\\ tmmers made 11 hack to fi- JlJb Ill thetr respt.>ctive mdividu<JI nents. The -.+00 \kdky ended the mom- mg sessron with <Jn incredihlc race. \:Jthaml'l \Lutm led off the relay consistmg. of Senior Rob Kirkm<:~n, SDphomon: Kyle Shack_ and Fresh- man Ridgely f lanison, wrth a 53.37 111 his hackstroke leg of the race. This split is an NC' AA national B- cut. which allows.hml to be con- sidered for the national meet in a month. It wasn't until that night that the Dutchmen began to falter. Union d1d not swim as well in 'Dmrsday's ll1ight session as they had in pre- lm1s that morning. session, a team could ruin their chances for a high-scoring meet After the first two events, Union \Vas in a dismal tenth place and the tnorale of the team dropped quickly. Union actually swam slower Thursday night than they !tad that morning. The divers tllat bailed Union out that evening, just as they had ia the dual meets over the course of the season. The fans were shocked that Union was in tenth as the Dutch- men have been a powerhouse in the league for years. \This just isn't our session.\ some members of the team stated. Others blamed it on the team and their lack of ef- fort. The divers dropped in their places from what they were seeded that morning, but they still scored more than any other team in the event. This boosted Union in the standings. At the close of finals on Thursday mght, Umon was in fifth and just a few points behind the third place team. The Friday morning session is exciting as a number of Union swimmers sv.;am times f<:~st enough to qualify them for finals that niglrt. Kirkman was seeded eighth in the 100 Breaststroke and Martin was seeded fifth in the I 00 Backstroke and the 200 Freestyle. Senior Cap- tain Clark Smythe also qualified for finals in the 200 Freestyle. included Smythe swimming to a third place finish in the 200 Freestyle and Martinp lacing forth in the 100 Backstroke and eighth in the 200 Freestyle. No race on Friday night, how- ever, could comparet() Union's 800 Freestyle Relay. With two last-sec- ond changes during the minutes leading up to the relay nob()dy was, really sure who was g()ing to swim in the relay. Martin led the relay off and was behind the field almDst f:rom the start. Slowly but suiely Martin crept up on the competition. He ended up splitting a I :46. L Harrison swam second and also split a 1:46.5. Freshman Steve Eberlien, who had been suffering fr()m. the stom- ach flu all weekend, dove in. Eberlein had his best swim ofthe meet and split a I :45.1, which was his second fastest ,-,-- time ever in that event. Anchoring the relay was Smythe, who split an in- credible 1 :42.32 in the midst of bat- tling other relay teams from rival schools. Union placed second in the relay with a time of 7:00.44, l~···'~w~·v which qualified the relay for Nationals with a B-cut. At , the close of finals · ·· on Saturday ngiht, ·. Union was in fourth, only half a point behind· Lemoyne. Saturday was ,. ~i ' ' .. ,. y ':- sore, the Dutchmen manged to pull through with a number of outstading performances and sea- son-best times. The swimmers knew tint they had an opportunity to place third overall, which, con- sidering their season, would be an great accomplishment. Once again, Union swam well in the rnorning, thus setting up a great evening. The entire team stepped up their performances and they were ready for the competition en- tering; the finals that night. The final session on Saturday night seemed to have more eneFgy than the previous five sessions comhined. The cheering was so loud that one had to yell just to be heard. Union has several top eight fin- ishes_ The most exciting event turned out to be 3-meter diving, as Senior Adam Hershman finished in second and Eric Seholm finished in fourth. Following the diving, was the final event, fhe 400 Freestyle Relay. As l(}ng as the Dutc1un:an relay was not disqualified it 1oolced as if Union vvould claim it's thi_rd place positi<ln. The relay, consisting of Martin, Kirkman, Eberlein and Smythe, prevailed, finishing third overall. This fmish clinched a third place fmish for Union. Altllough the weekend! techni- cal'ly belonged to Harnilt()n, who won the New York State Tourna- ment lly a landslide, the Dutchmen went home feeling like the kings of· the world. The progressi_on from the beginning of the season to the end Dfthe season was remarkable as they pulled out a hard-fought and well-earned third Jllace finish. They look towards the ad<iition of a number of talented freshmen. ' ' 'it ' The finals of events at night are the sessions \vhere teams have the ()pportunity to score points. Thus, by swimmmg. poorly during a night Friday night was the real test, as Union needed to come back at night and shine this year like it had in the past. The evening started out on a positive note as Fresh- man John Vandervoort dropped four seconds from this preliminary qualifYing time in the 400 Individual Medley. His swim was fast enough to win his heat and start the mo- mentum ball rolling. the last day of L......--\---~-~-\\'-~~-\----.....:......=-\- Other highlights of the evening States, and despite being tired and ~riffey, Jr. Returns to Hometown l \The Kid\ is lmown for his sweet first day of his spring training I by Vinod Violeti home-run swing and his skillful with the Chicago White Sox six 1 Staff Writer fielding that earned him a total of years ago. Though Mic:hael Jor- That's right- having shown up caring blue in Seattle, Washing- on for the last eleven years, Ken riffey, Jr. is sporting a change of tyle due to his recent trade to the incinnati Reds. On February 10, he nine-time All-Star was traded ten straight golden gloves. dan had more report~rs and eanl- Undoubtedly, Griffey believes that eras on the scene th.an Griffey did, · his trade has made his career all he was still perplexed by tlie num- the sweeter, \Tiris is something I ber of media person11el wh() dreamed about as a little kid, being showed up to re<:eive him on back in my hometown where I Monday. watched so ma~y great players.'' Some oftheGriffey'snewterun- Meanwhile, the city of Cincin- mateswereevenmo~exdtedtba:n or four players: pitcher Brett nati has never been more excited he was. \This is the flrst time omko and outfielder Mike about the nearing of spring train- we'vehadanewscom.ferencelike ameron, along with two other rni· or league players. The 30-year-old Griffey has earned about this day ever since e was a little boy. Having grown pin Cincinnati, Griffey, Jr. watched is father, Ken Griffey, Sr., as the amous Big Red Machine was at ~ts peak. After eleven years of ~aseball with the Seattle Mariners, flriffey will finally be Wlited with hrs father, who is now the bench coach for the Reds and a prospec- tive manager. 1 Griffey is often regarded as one pf the best players to ever have f;tepped up to the plate. He is en wute to breaking Hank Aaron's ...:J.n:er home-run record of755. In fiddition to his 398 home-runs, 'riffey is a .298 lifetime hitter with 1, 15 2 RBI' s over the period of Ieven seasons. Not only was in g. Over 200 people were on site this,\ exclaimed Ba:ny Larkin. \It\' s to greet their new hero as he ar- going to beacircu.s, I'msure, but rived at the airport, while others put we're all looking f()rW'ard to it.\ up \Welcome Home\ signs all over· Dimitri Young, vvho was with the place. Reds' fans believe that the St. Louis Cardinals at the time the line~up will be the best ever , that they acquired Mark since the 1970's. McGwire, com.tnented\lt's grea.t. Among those who will be ac- It re.minds nie of St. Louis when companying Griffey are B!ltty we.gotMcGwire. That was am~· Larkin, Sean Casey and Dante diacircus. This is even greater be· Bichette. Hopefully the rejuve- cause he's here fi:oJn the begin· nated line-up will help them.in ning. This is a great day.\ clutch garn.es comparable to the The National Lea...,gue 's Central 1999 Wild Card playoff game ver- Division is now one io keep a very sus the New York Mets, which close eye on, considering the fa<:t • they lost. that Ken Griffey,. Jr. is joining· Monday was the first day of home~run champions MaFk spring training for the Reds at th~ · McGwire of·the St. Louis Ca.:rdi .. · Sarasota Sports Complex iJ;i nats and Chicago Cubs; Sammy Florida. A pvess conference was Sqsa. , One reporte::r commented held near the fttst base line, the· . thaJ :.perhaps th:e .NL Central same plaCfb Wher~ Micha~l J~rd~· . -'.: sq9U.ld' b~' :renamed \Eome-run • had his ress conference on th~ Central.'' · . , · Senior Rob Kirkman swims in the final oj the I 00 BreaststJ·oke. I R ! ; 1 '1 l I I 1

g, if of en of he of Ja.n. 7 8 9 ll 14 15 18 '22' 25 28 Feb. l 4 5 1.2 14 18 19 , .. ;and.\ St.andin·gs · T~rough Tuesday Women'sHockey ·· ·(4-16/4-10 ECAC) . atHatvard 4 · at Brown w .·.' .. omen.~ .. s: ... 6 12 M . n' . e ·. s HAMILTON Lost 5 .. 1 RIT Lost 10-0 at Bowdoin Lost 10-2 at Colby Lost 8·0 BATES Won4-2 SOUTHERN MAINE Lost8-1 at Sacred Heart Lost6-0 at Conn. College Won 3-2 TRINITY w ()tl4-3 WESLEYAN Lost 3-1 at Vermont Lost 4~1 M . ' d . ·en san . ~ - -~-. ' .. .., '· ., Baskethtill (l2~2t/5-6Ub~) Basketball Women's Track -C (14-10/5-7 UCAA) . Jan. Uni<m lnvitatiot~a.l Union Invitational ·. 4. ,.S.~NT Won83-66 .. ~:~ -~•: ·. ····;:r · Won1>3:~~;,~,i'(tf Won ·so-49' .(Mt; sis~.· ti.~~s.'''\. • .. ·. Union Invitational ·-~·-' • --~'N·- l fiAMILTON ST. LAWRENCE CLARKSON atRPI MIDDLEBURY HAltTWICK at Russell Sage at Skidmore at Clarkson at St. Lawrence SKIDMORE at Vassar RPl WILLIAM SMITH Won75-58 . · · < ·. Won 67·61. · · ..... Lost 79-~(j · .. · Lost Sl~S·S · .. Losf63'<-S2. · . ~ost 57·S4 ... · W'o'n '()0~49: · \\;- ,\·c .·.· Won\6(l-47 . Wt~n: •76~6~·· · Lost 76·'67 · ··Won 00~~&; ·: .. LO$f 1S·63' ', . t~·;t6i<n, ... ·. Lost 71-~~ · '· . '' ' , 14 ST: LAWRENCE Won68-67 \t5 CLARKSON ·Lost 63-58 d8 atRPI lost67-63 22 . at Middlebury lost 69-63 25 HARTWICK Won 81-66 28 at Cazenovia Won 81-78 (OT) . Feh - ,.! . _ _. .... '·1 at .Skidtmre Lost71..()7 .. 4 at Clarkson Lost65-63 5 at St. Lawrence Lost69-63 ' 12 SKif)M)RE Won89-67 15 at Wllliarrs tost64..()l 18 RPI Won65-64 19 HOBART Won'61.-19 Men's and Women's Jan. 8 at Williams 15 at Hartwick 19 atRPI 22 at Middlebury 29 Hamilton Feb. M. Lost 154-65/ W. Lost 136.;98 M. Lost 122-117/ W. Won 122-121 M. Lost 126·115/W. Won 145-96 M. Lost 191~89/ W. Lost 190-.89 M. Lost 140-92/W. Lost 137~94 5 S!. LAWRENCE M. Lost 132-119/W. Won 119 .. 85 17-·19 Women's s:tate Meet at RPI 4th Out of 16 Teams 24-26 Men's State Meet at Hamilton srd Out of 14 Teams Jan. 16 atHarnilton M wst96-77 W. Lost. 22 at RP1 No Scoring 28 at Wesleyan INV'T 2nd out of 11 Feb\ 13 UCM at Hamilton 4th out of4 .19 at Harnilton 25-26 State Nieet 14th out of 15 ..... ~· ·~· .. •

y f )[ I i ! I I ., l Scores and Standings Through Tuesday Men's Hockey Women's. Hockey (7-21-l/5-13-1 ECAC) (4-16/4-10 ECAC) . Jau. Jan. 7 8 9 1l 14 15 18 22 25 28 7 8 14 at Verrno nt at Dartmouth RPI 15 at RPI 28 at Y .ale , 29 at Princeton Feb. 4 DARTMOUTH 5 VERMONT 11 PRINCETON 12 YALE 18 at C o melt 1 9 at Co lgate Lost J.-2 Lost 5- J: Won 3.-;~ Lost 5-0 Tied 2-2 Won J-t Lost 2-l CANCELED Lost 6-l L0st 4-2 Lost 4-3 Lost 9-3 25 ST. LAWRENCE Lost 2-I 26 CLARKSON Lost 3-! Mar. 3 at H atvaFd 4 at Brown Women's Basketball (12-21/5-6 UCAA) Union Invitatij)n~l Union Invitation~l Won 75-38 (Vermollt1 Union Invitation~} Wort 50-49 (Mt. St. Mary's) HAMILTON Won 75-58 ST. LAWRENCE Won 67-61 CLARKSON Lo.st 79-56 at RPI Lost 51-38 MlD:OLEBURY Lost ()3-52 HARTWICK Lost 57-:54 at Russell Sage Won60-49 Jan. 7 HAMILTON Lost 5-l (,c - 8 RIT Lost 1()-.:0 T4 at Bowdoin Lost Hl-2 15 at Colby Lost 8-0 22 BATES Won 4-2 I 0-1 'ts) LJI ~~~ 23 SOUTHERN MAINE Lost 8-1 29 at Sac red Heart Lost <J-'0 >O at Conn. C<>1lege Won 3-2 Feb. 5 TRINITY Won 4-3 .,;;I ·~ 6 WESLEYAN Lost 3-1 12 at Vermont ;., Men's Basketball (14-10/5-7 UCAA) JaiL 4 S. VERlvDNT Won 83-66 7 SUNY :Maritime Won 92'-72 8 SCRANTON Lost 7(}.61 11 HAMILTON 14 ST. LAWRENCE 15 CLARKSON 1a at RPI 22 at Middlebury 25 HARTWICK 28 at Cazenovia Lost 7(}.61 Won68-67 Lost 63-58 Lost 67-63 Lost 69-63 Won81-66 Won81-78 (O'f) Lost 4-1 Men's and Jan. Women's Track 16 at Hamilton M Los196-77 W. Lost 92-49 22 at RPI No Scoring 28 at Wesleyan JNVT 2nd out of 11 Feb. Feb. 1 at Skidtn:lre Lost 71-67 Lost 65-63 lost 69-63 Won89-67 Lost 6461 Won65-64 Won82-79 Feb. I 4 5 n 14 I& I!» at Skidmore Won60 ... 47 at Clarkson Won· 76-65 4 atOarkson at St. Lawrence Lost 76-67 5 at St. LaV'ITence SKIDMORE Won60:.,46 12 SKIDMORE at Vassar Lost 78-63 15 at Wi11iarrs RPI Lost 61-31 18 RPl WILLIAM SMITH Lost 71-58 19 HOBART Men's and Women's Jan. 8 at Williams 15 ail: Hartwick 19 ai RPI 22 ai Middlebury 29 Hamilton Feb. 5 ST.LAWRENCE M. Lost 154-65/ W. Lost 136-98 M. Lost 122-117/ W. Won 122-121 M. Lost 126-115/W. Won 145-96 M. Lost 191-89/ W. Lost 190-89 M. Lost 140-92/W. Lost 137-94 M. Lost 132-119/W. Won 119-85 17-19 Women's State Meet at RPI 4th Out of 16 Teams 24-26 Men's State Meet at Hamilto11 3rd Out of 14 Teams 13 UCAAat Hamilton 4th out 0of 4 19 at Hamilton 25-26 State Meet 14th ollt of 15 . '

i I . ' -. .I '~ • '- I · i BJ:\a.u··:::don s·nee -.,!1-·\' .... J CP ······. ·. · .. ··· · .. ·· · -· ·· · · . . ········•··?Jlso·····1'fi:i!: Jf(ell~~~·.:fi~!t:Jit;.;;~···.••.•·· · . · .. Marcil .z; :·ooo .. j. Track Runs· · · ·· · ·.. · · ·. · .··. · · Menzs ; ; . . ' . ,., .. ' :~ .' . '' .. -· , .. •, • ·' ., - • ' \ . ._.-.:,· ·:' y -,-_:· .; ... ,:·,, • ( ··-.1 • · .fot.the····· · \ . ... ..._ ... Swifiltning::: : ChaffipionshiP ·· · · ·· ·· · ··· ....•..•.... ··at\States · '~~~d~~?/. '. · ..... • .. ·······.··. · .. ···.··· .. · ·;·<~~~t~!~.·:t

·'' .. _,. ·t~ f.'' t'l'i ,, ..,., .................. ore Goalie aigle/CP Brandon Snee Also This Week At Union ... March 2., 2000 Track Runs Men's for the .Swimming Championship at States PagelS Page22

