the of at lll- ng r . THE CONCORD lEN SIS. VoL .. IV. ScHENECTADY, N. Y .. , FEBRUARY, 18&r. No.5· CoNCORDIENSIS. pUBLISHED ON THE 15th OF EACH MONTH DURING THE CO.L~EGIATE YEAR BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY. EDITORS: ROBERT A. WOOD, '8I, EDITOR B'i CHIEF. J. J. HENNING, '8t. H. SCHLOSSER, 'St. : C. TEMPLE. '82. A. S. WRIGHT, '82. E. E. FORD, '82 . ·w. M.. GILBERT, '8 3 . W. 0. LEWIS, '83. CONTENTS: LITERARY: ·Character ...........................•............... 61 Great Events- ....•.......•......................... 62 Reminisceuce of College Life. . . . . . . . . . . . . ......•.. 65 Union College, (P<>etry) .........................•.. 67 EDITORIALS : The Clark Prize . . . . . ..............•............... 67 The Seniors . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .............•.. 67 Chancellorship of the University of N. Y. . ........ 67 Propriety of having D-evotional Exercises ........... 68 ARTHURS. WRIGHT, Business Manager. l LocAL : .•.•.••••.••...•..... , .•.•.•.•...•...•.•.•..•...•.•.• '69 TERM.S: Queries for Juniors •...........•...•............•.... 70 The Junior Class Sapper .......... , .................. 71 'I PERSONAL:~ ..... - .. : .••..•.• · .•... ····•·••·· •.....•..•.•.•.•.• 71 One J)ollar per Year, in advance. Single copies, Ten Cents. ADVERTISING RATES: Business Notice, per issue, \I \ \ year, Square, per issue, 11 \ year, Quarter page, per year, Half page, per year, $ 75 500 IOO Boo - IS 00 25 00 Address, THE CONCORDIENSIS, Bo.x 481, Sckenectady, N. Y. The CoNCORDIENSIS will be found on sale at Barkyte's, State St., and at ~Vri'gkt' s College Book Store. l Obituary ........•............................•.... 72 I CoLLEGENSIA : • • . • . . . . . . . • . . . . • . • • . . . . . . . . . . • ......•.•. _ .•.. 72 EXCHANGES : . . . • • . . . • . . . . . • . • ...•...•........•.•...•...•..•• 73 EXTRANEA : • . • . • . • • . . . • . . . • . . . • • . . • . • . • • • . • . • . . . . ..•... - . . . ;7 4 The Rival .......•....................•....... - .... 74 .A Fatal Flirtatio11 .................................. 74 UNION UN IVERS IT Y, REv. ELJ PHALET NO·TT POTTER D. D., LL. D., PHESIDENT. UNION COLLEGE. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. DEPARTMEN ':l' OF MEDICINE. . ALBA~Y MEDICi\L CoLLEGE.- Term commences First Tuesday in i September and contmues twe11tyr weeks. The plan of instruction com- 1 bines clinical teaching·, with lectures. Special opportunities for the -·- o-- study of chemistry and of practical anatorn\·. I . ExPE!\SES. -l\1atr}culatioll fee, ~5· ~erm fee, $10o. Perpetual x. CLASSICAL CouRsE.- The Classical Course is the usual bacca- Ttcket, $so. Graduati<?n fee, ,$25. D1ssectmg fe,e~ $s.. Fee for labor- laureate course of American colleges. Students may be permitted to atorv course, $to. Histological course, $ro. For Circulars, address, pursue additional studies in either of the other courses. PROF. JACOBS. :MOSHER, NL D., REGISTRAH, 2, SciENTIFIC CouRsE.-ln the Scientific Course the modern la.n- Albany, N. F. guages are substituted for the ancient, and the amount of mathematical D EpA R T JYI E NT 0 F LAW . and English studies is increased. . . . . THE ALBA~Y LAw ScHOOL..- The Course of Instr-uct10n coiJsists nf 3 , ~CHOOL OF CIVIL ENGINEERING.- The. student m this _depart- three terms: the first commencing September 4th, the second Nov:ern. ~ent.en)oys adv~ntages nowhe!e surpassect, m the course of mstruc-. ber z 7 th, and the third :\larch sth ~ each term consisting of tweh~e· t~on, m1ts collectiOn of models, Instruments. and .books, lhe ,:'1Ccumu1a-l weeks. The advantages for the study of the law a.t Albanv are .as grea.t t10~~ ?f many year~ pythe late frofessor Glllespte, a!ld also 111 unusual as can be found anywhere. The Law L1brary of the State is open to facthtles for acqmrmg a practical knowledge for mstrumental field students; the General Terms of the Supreme Court of the Third De- work. partment, and all the terms of the Court of Appeals. 4 . :B;cLECTIC Cou:RsE.-An Eclec~ic Course, consisting of studies Fee for sing-le term, $so ; for two t€rms, ~9o; for three, $x3o. selected at pleasure from the precedmg courses, may be taken by any For information, address one who, upon examination, rs found qualified to pursue it. On the completion of this a certificate of attainment will be given. There are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, Metalhirgy and Natural History. For Catalogues. or for special information, address E. M. JENKINS, REGISTRAR, Schenectady, N. Y. PROF. CHAS. T. F. SPOOR, Albany, ff. Y. DUDLEY OBSERVATORY. This Department of the University is located: at Albany, and is de- voted especially to Astronomy a.nd Meteorology. For information, address PROF. LEWIS BOSS~ Albany, N. Y. 00 TO POWERS, THE PHCTOORAPHER, FOB BEST PHOTOGRAPHS, 225 ST.ATE STREET, SCHENECTADY,

II THE CONC;QRDIENSIS. --·-----------------------------------~----------~------~---------------------~~----- KINNEY TOBACCO COMPANY, New Yol'k. Manufacturers of the following well known brands: SPECIAL AND UNUSUAL Sale of Extra J:1 ... ine .ENGLISH ..A.NIJ SCOTCH SUITING-S, GERMAN ..A.NJJ JJ'RENOH OVEROOATING-S, . .ENGLISH ..ANIJ AMERIOA.N TRO\W'SERIN~S. l'or the purpose of disposing of the bala~ce of our Fall and Winter lmporta.tions in Custom Depatt- I~Ient. l Gentlemen visiting Troy should make it a special du- ty to visit JULIUS SAUL'S ELI£GANT BUILDING, 324 .i~.Nl> 326 Rl\TER ~'l'REEJ'r, Custom department on second floor, to which an elegant passengt·r elevator is constantly running-. W\ Everything First Class. BUY NOOTHER. I CAPORAL, CAPORAL ll!, SwEET CAI\'ORAL ST. jAMEs, ST. jAMES ~ ... S..8.. -c:;r::r:..,., LEADING TAILOR AND CLOTHIER, MATINEE, ENTRE :..:ous, SPe>RTS, AMBASSADOR, UNI«;:>N I CLUB, VETERAN, ETC. I 324 and :ilo RIVER STREET, TROY, N.Y. W\Sold by all dealers throughout the world. ----·-----·-----·-- ----------------------- 'TIFF ANY & CO.'S standard watches are constructed upon the latest scientific princi- . ples, and combine all the improvements at- . tained by the use of American Machinery, CLi\SS PI-IOTOGRAPHERS UF UNION. together with the unequalled advantages of COLLEGE, 1878-79-80. College Buildings, Landscapes, Class and Society Group Pictures of 1878 may be had at Class Rates. the highly skilled labor of the watch manu- facturing district ot Switzerland, of which Geneva, \V here they are 1nade, is the centre. TVe 'rrwke every de.-Jc1•1';JUon oj'lD01'k known to Photography They are simple, strong and durable and fully incl-uding the reproduction of old pictures. COI.LEGE ALBUMS AND ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF FRAMES. guaranteed for time keeping qualities. TIFFANY & CO., ~Our A1·t Gallery is always open .to visitors and UN ION SQUARE, explanations freely given. NEw YoRK.

are . nc1- at- of tre. TH>E . .- VoL. IV. . . SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FEBRUARY, r88I. No.5· . THE. CoNCORDIENSIS. own manhoo~ che will be true t? a.ll. His PUBLISHED ON THE 15th oF EA.CH MONTH DURING THE fellow-men Will trust and confide 10 hlm · On COLLEGIATE YEAR BY THE STUDENTS OF :all .occasions n1anhood should be asserted UNION UNIVERSITY. ·and the admonition5 of conscience obeyed; ED 1 ro R s: 'thus laying the foundation of a noble . ROBERT A. wooD, '81, EmToR IN CHIEF. character. A noble nature is not vvith out its J. J. HENNING, '8t. H. SCHLOSSER, '8x. . c. TEMPLE, '82. A. S. WRIGHT, '82. E. E. FORD, '82· :nleflt. It is invaluable to an individual. w. M. GILBERT, '83. w. o. LEWIS, '~3·.. ___ ·\Even should the w·orld fail to recognize true ,\Torth, (but it will not,) the individual is con- LITER A. R Y·. --------------- ·---·-----··- -. CHARACTER. '' Good name in man and woman Is the immediate jewel of their souls.\ Character is the present intellectual, social, and tnoral condition of an individual. It in- cludes his present acquisitions and habits, together with his possible future attainments. It ~on1prebends the particular tnan, with a nature pec-uliarly his own vvhich marks him as individua.Uy distinct frotn other men. •. scious of the purity of his rnotives and of his own rectitude. This in itself is a power. Conscious rectitude is its own reward. For what is better calculated to inspire one than to feel h.e stands a man among men? It is of infinite value to every tnan that he keep con- stantly in rrtind the fact that no one can de- base hin1 but hin1self. Slander may be breathed upon him, falsehood alleged against him, injustice meted out to him, but he is invulnerable to all these. These can· never rob hin'l of his manhood, but \Vhen proved false they rather fortify his char~cter. For a time they may blast his reputation and even is, and reputation is \vhat other~ men think crush his hopes, but his character remains as him to be. Character is the man himself, pure and spotless as he himself has made it. while reputation is the garb \Vith which he is 1\tlen may denounce him, they may set up his clothed. The desire to secure honor is a failings as the butt of their cupidity and wit, noble emul~tion. lts acquisition calls into but if he is true to himself nothing can harm life th~ nobler feelings of the soul. It adds hin 1. lt is impossible for men to deprive hitn force to character and strengthens manhood. of the kno\vledge ot hi tnself. He knO\VS the Character differentiates frotn reputation in- asmuch as character is what an individual To establish a noble character this should be purity of his motives, the integrity of his character. and the generosity of his nature. kept in n1ind : ' ' To thine ownself be true, .And it must follow, as the night the day, Thou canst not then be false to any man.\ '• To thine o\vnself be true,\ is the key to a noble. character. If a rnan is true to his \Vhile these are left hin1 he retnains un- : harn1ed. Another thing to be borne in mind is that moderate self-confidence is the foundation. of

' . ' . THE CONCORDIENSIS. true manliness of character. Without this the world by his philosophy; but the' -hn- estiruation it is impossible for an individual pulse of Alexander spent itself in the short to know whether to do or leave undone a. space of a lifetirne,-and there are men certain task ... This is the source from whence. whose influence extends through the awful have issued some of the noblest enterprises· lapse of twenty years. It has been well writ ... of the world's history. Nothing .great was: ten, ''though our clock strikes \vhen there ever accomplished without a proper estin1a- . is a change fron1 hour to hour, no hammer tion of selL This quality only becotnes ob- ·.in the horologe of time peals forth ·throug;h jectionable when it is permitted topreponder- ·.the universe to proclaim a change trom era ate over better feelings-· when it culminates·. to era.'' in egotism. Then there is no quality so de- ·Our age has been rich in noted men; in- tested as it. The vain man may he endured, deed, we surpass every age that has preced-: the foolish man forgiven, the selfish n1an. ed us. This fact arises frorn two potent humored, but the :proud egotist\ is ever odious. ceuses, quite recent and quite wonderful. ·rrue manliness of character should be the The first and foremost is the invention of the height of every man's an1bition. Wealth, art of printing. position and affluence are objects \vorthy of 'fhe Press is a po\ver entirely moJern in honorable pursuit, but they are not \VOrth its character and workings, and has wielded the sacrifice of character. They perish with m·ore influence and achieved more benefits the hand that won them. Charact~r lives on than any one instrurnent in the history of the after the thing w hjch gave it birth has \vorld. It opens a rich artd glowing field for crun1 bled into dust. Character never dies. the exercise of the tnental po\vers. · It offers We are an iu1itati ve people. The spirit of glittering rewards for the exertions of talent the past influences largely the present. The an·d genius. · It is a glorious arena for the characters of our predecessors are indelibly noblest contests, both spiritual and intellec-· stamped on us. ()ur life is replete \vith tual. their doings and observances. It furnishes an outlet for the expression of \Be just., and :fear not, aU thought and opinion ; and it is the medium Let all tl1e ends thou aim'st at be thy country's, through which are made known .the vast and Thy God's and truth's; then if thou fall'st, vaTied 1 novements of the world-the tnixed Thou faU'st a blessed martyr.\ c. A. 1-:I. , 83 . intercourse of nations, the intricate labyrinth - ---------------------··--------- of Parliam~ntary proceedings, the social and GREAT EVENTS. political, civil and military transactibns of The greatest event of an age is its great the universe. I f'is a sanctuary in \vhicb are thinker. Compared \Vith this all other events preserved tbe great rnasterpieces of the hu- are small and unimportant, fron1 the build- n1an intellect, and the great retnnants of the ing of a Babel to\ver to the founding of world's genius. It is a Golgotha filled with American Republics. all the learning of the past, a store-house As all great moven1ents, by nature deep, glittering \¥ith all the speculations of the are by nature calm, so is the impulse of a present, a prophet shadowing forth the great man, and his effects upon other rnen. visions of the future.· He requires ages and centuries in which to By its inftuei1ce a new era has dawned exert his full influence and pow·er, and it upon the earth, a ne\\T empire has been found .. takes centuries more for the great level ocean ed in the minds of n1en. The nations of to S\Veep over his landtnark. Ari~:;totle ruled • earth rnake tretnendousstrides in civilization; - pow ing 1 thei1 the: hum perc shor pha1 nav: of p wit] wit] tali~ ·wh< irna Di\ sub me1 spr her pre anc Gu the me pee . In \f We tic ac an w tb ar lll

THE· CON,CORDIENSIS. 63 power and glory. Knowledge and :learn- • lowest depths by the French Revolution ; ing exert all their strength and diffuse all nations have been aroused !rom the lethargy their splendour. We are living in an age, of ages; and the Fabric of the Past is totter- the greatest and grandest in the annals of ing to its foundations. Never in the history hun1an affairs,-a country the most pros- ofthe world vvas there so great a thought perous and blessed that the sun has ever .laboring in the minds of men, and never shone upon; an age and a century trium- · since the introduction of christianity was phant• with the achievements of steam and there so distracted and divided an age. navigation,-. ·glowing \vith the richest gems Great refor1ns are at vvork. Vast machinery of poetry, history aud philosophy, adorned has been put in execution; and civilization with the decorations of every art, enriched moves forward with giant strides. These with the researches of every science, immor- changes have their practical illustration in· talized by the genius of literature. And. the great movements which, for the last half ·when ever and wherever we see these great a century, have been agitating the powers of images, these glorified reflections of the earth,-· the civil wars in Italy, Dernocracy in Divine Creator shining, wherever we see this . England, the late war and wild confusion of sublin1e treasury of knowledge and enjoy-· politics in America, Communism in France, ment progressing, there we know civilization • Socialism in Germany, and even Nihilism in spreads her dominion, and progress wheels: the old iron despotism ot Russia. her triumphal car. Rightly governed,. the The ages of superstition, it is generally con- press is the bulwark of a nation's strength ceded, are behind us. The day of Feudalism, and the . palladium of a nation's safety· o± ignorance and oppression is long since Guard- it with a vestal fidelity, tor \if it fall, past, and the day ot science, of civilization there tall, in one comn1on ruin, the. govern- and knowledge has fairly da\vned; a brighter ment of the country and the liberties of the sun rolls triumphant through our heavens. people. In tirnes such as these, the spirit of Progress 'fhe second great event of our time, and rushes with incredible speed through the one world-wide in its effects, is the French cycles ofcivilizatjon and glory, and the anti- Revolution, the great outburst ot popular q uated splendor of rnonarchial ages is com- fury, that rolled, and blazed and destroyed prised ,Nithin a fe\v short periods oi den10- in the \Vi ld extremes of democracy, and cratic ascendency. \from its horrid hair shakes pestilence and Let us not be idle spectators of this great wa·r.\ And close upon this a world revolu- struggle. Let us· be actors in the grand tion has followed, more peaceful in its char- contest. He who shrinks from the battle is acter, but far t11ightier in its effects. no true n1an and he who lingers in the rear The signs of the tin1es are plain enough, deserves the epith~t of a co\vard. and he w·bo runs tnay read them. They are· ()ther ages and other nations have passed written in characters of living fire upon every through similar revolutions. Labor and thought and action of our age. Vast social . action are the only true exi~tence. These and and political ch~nges are being made; old these onty have produced the civilizations institutions and old ideas at-e being swept and accornplished the revolutions of the away. Kings and emperors are trembling globe. They' are the fundamental principles on their thrones and are threatened with the very necessity of our being, and alone ·destruction in the deluge cf new thought. survive \the wreck of matter, and the crash . The people have been stirred up from the of worlds.''

f l I I I - !-1 i I i, . ·I . : i : I :I :1 : I i ! i I r I , I ; I. ' I f ' ' . '. 64 THE CONCORDIENSIS. Cast your eye, for a moment, over the tnap their youth with tbe principles of actions; of the past, fraught with the teachings of, strengthened their tninds by early application, philosophy, and shining in the glories ot and incul·cated into their ·souls the love of dominion. Look upon the en1pires that rose liberty? What but that same democratic and blazed and fell. \VVhy does Genius w~ep. vigor, infusing their policy and pervading over the desolation ot ancient ,grandeur? their counsels, that overcame every obstacle Why does history muse over the ruins of the. and crushed all opposition, humbling the \fallen dynasties?\ Why does the -vvorld power of the Cc=esars and breaking the iron turn with feelings of awe and admiration to . cro\vn of the feudal tryants as ''westward the shores of the Mediterranean? It is be- the course of empire takes its way?\ What I cause Liberty first echoed across its waters; (but those imn1ortaL 1ninds, the rnighty de- it is because civilization spread along its 1 parted, ''those dead but sceptred sovereigns shores ; it is because refinernent and culture who still rule over spirits frotn their urns,\ first flourished in those fertile regions. It is wbo adorned their ag-e by their genius and because there rose the cities from which learning, imn1ortalized their country by have sprung the wisdom and the glory, the their greatness and glory, and le£t to the power and the freedon1 of the western \vorld; \vorld the models of art and the tnasterpieces it is because there lie the nations that once of composition? bore the weight of empire and wielded the ''Peace\ says Seg\Ur \is the dream of the sceptre of dominion, within whose walls \Vere philosopher; \Var is the history ot the hun1an once collected the knowledge and learning race.\ The Fr·ench Revolution, anaid much of the world, and through whose tnarts and that was bad, effected n1uch that was good. market-places once flo\ved the tide of trade, After every action, there is a re-action; from industry and \\,.ealth. It is, above all, because every evil there results some benefit. Man here democratic vigor, asserting its might must be tried in the crucible of experience and its majesty, pierced through the pritneval before he will listen to the teachings of the forests of central Europe, and spread the wise; and youth too often rushes with head- white sails of civilization over the blue long itnpetuosity into the !lrms of a phantom waters of the Atlantic ;-and launched across glory. In this great struggle the ends of· the gulf of ages the ark that was destined to destiny were being accomplished, and the bear the ,glad tidings ot Religion and Liberty hand of a God \Vas alrnost visibly seen nlov- throughout the wastes of the eastern and the ing throughout. It was a revolution the solitudes of the western world. \Vhat made grandest in the annals of modern times,-a Athens \the eye ot Greece, rnother of arts revolution which ia V()lverl the destinies of and eloquence,\ bearing in her hand the the hun1an race, \Vhose influence will extend palm of painting and sculpture, and her brow :through a succession of ages, and w·hose wreathed with the chaplet of literary fame? effects are still felt at every fireside and in What erected Rome into empire, awarding every home of christendom. It \Vas the to her genius the sceptre of legislation, and great uprising of the nunlan mind agatnst crowning her head \\~ith the diaden1 of uni- ternporal p0\ver and spiritual persecution. versal dorn inion, leaving her, amid ruit~s and ~ t overturced the prejLtdices and superstitions ·desolation,. the landn1ark of the world's of ages, and founded an empire upon the genius~ a rnental n1onument of human wis- basis of liberty, fraternity and equality. dorn ? What but those seminaries of learn- T'he Encyclopc=edists had worked a re~olu­ ing and wise public institutions that infonned tion In the n1inds of men, grander than any - --- everat thundt gone~ brave The e1 and F every the eE ofkno and b: Thf be a' groun neath bitter been Noth tale .. c ice- ofth: its h the ' were worl wic1 \the the 1 befo alwc: in al s oftl futu pro: RE ( mu altl mo 011 tht ' ()S:

THE CONCORDIENSIS~ -- everachieved by the sword. Voltaire had customed to relieve the tedium of study by thundered agairrst the Vatican and had a stroll down to the river side, and the latter gone down to his grave after a long and a to young ladies from the city who were not brave fight against the abuses of religion. unfrequently seen wending their way in the The enlarged, liberal teachings of Rousseau direction of Jackson's garden, and gazing and Raynre in regard to liberty were on· with inquiring looks towards Ub.e venerable every tongue. The propagation of virtue,. walls which have since blosso1ned forth into the establishment of freedom, the dihsion the stately Alumni Hall. Doubtless prom- of knowledge were uppermost in the hearts enading of like sortqontinues atthough many and brains of aU men. ·changes have been made aloug the cus torn- There is a time when forbearance ceases to ary route. There were, however, within the be a virtue. The people of France had been period covered by these reminiscences cer- ground down into the dust for centuries be- tain disturbing influences, which it is to be neath the heel of an iron oppression. The hoped will never again break in upon and bitterest cup ever drained by mortal tipS had destroy the even tenor of college life. War been drained to the last dregs by theirs. meetings held in the chapel, zouave drill on Nothing in· history or fiction,-- not even the the camp us, processions, bonfires,. the enlist- tale .of Farinata in the regions of everlasting ment of friends and their departure for the ice-could equal the horrors and atrocities field of battle, news from the front, whether of that despotism. The storm must burst, joyous or sad, occasioned pnofound excite- its t~ry had been gflthering for ages; and ment. In the years near the close of th.e wat the douds that lowered upon the h.orizo1_1 men who had seen service and bore the were :tilled with death and destruction. The scars of battle were among the students. world was about to see that the reign ot Toughened by hardship and yet in the prime wickedness and vice was not eternal; that of young manhood, their influence was felt \though man proposes, God disposes:\ and unmistakably by the callow striplings with the veil which human folly attempts to weave whom they were thrown in contact. Serious before the face of an omnipotent God is work was not neglected in those days, nor always torn asunder and discloses tbe truth were diversions of one sort or another un- in all its naked purity. known. It was not always safe, however, Such, then, have been the two great events for men in the upper classes to assume that of the nineteenth century, and from these all freshmen were tender and 11 nsophisticated. future generations will date a new era of Sophomoric dignity sometimes failed to prosperity and civilization. J. E. B. '84. carry the day, and upon one occasion even ,____---- latty Juniors when attemping to '• rush\ the REMINiSCENCES OF COLLEGE LIFE. Freshrnen, n1et their n1atch, and were College life probably doeS not change very turn bled promiscuously into the snow. By !lJUCh, at least as regards its essen ti alfeatures, dint of strength of stomach a mem her of the although its surroundings may be somewhat. freshman class in 1866 or 1867 nearly put a modified. Twelve or fifteen years ago at ·stop to the practice of \smoking out,\ he Old Union the antediluvian bridge across certainly turned the tables upon his would- the Mohawk at the western end of the town, be tormentors so completely that several of and the chapel foundations on the campu.s them were compelled by reason of gastric were objects· of unfailing interest and cun- ·disturbance to desist from their attempt and <>sity, the former to collegians, who were ac' ·on account of the experience thus obtained, .·

66 THE CONCORDJENSlS. or on other high moral grounds the practice intimate fa_miliarity with the somewhat fell into disrepute. Amongst college pranks peculiar style ot the author in question, but the Samsonian feat of carrying off gates was, the brilliant recitation was cut short-never perhaps, the most popular in spite of \Captain· to go again-by a request to \ construe the Jack's\ remark to the effect that it was '' un- passage.\ Discomfiture and a sweaty look intellectuaL\ Judging from the Captain's came over the face that had but a moment . - manner on a certain occasion it was perhaps before borne evidence of great self-satisfac. a customary'' intellectual amusement\ on the tion and elation. part of the class in astronomy to bore him A movement somewhat out of the ordinary with the' question as to whether the Missis-, line of college doings was the establishment sippi river really runs up hill. But in the of a temperance organization supported matter of ''boring\ he had an advantage for mostly by students, although the meetings there were in those times students who were held in a ball rented for the purpose .in hated Calculus although they did not dislike the city. This institution was quite popular the professor in charge of the class. Regard- but, if \the speech of people \' was to be ing the subject as a burden and a weariness, credited, sociability rather than temperance they sought by ingenious devices to get along was uppermost. There waS also a somewhat without study. The arts of signalling across incredible story current to the· effect that in the room and of folding and concealing the South College a .few roystering spirits memoranda were made the subject of dili- had formed a society, the chief feature in gent research, sufficient almost to conquer which was the initiation, this ceremony in Calculus itself. The boldest trick, however, brief being to make the candidate stupidly was practiced by an envied few who sat so drunk and to lay him out on a plank and dose to the Captain's desk as to be able to hold a wake over his remains. The only put upon the step of the plattorm, almost fact patent to the general public that would beneath his feet, an open book, from which make· this tale seem true was the fate_; of by means of an occasional glance, they several reputed members of this society who might be able to make a fair show of recit- were \rusticated \ or otherwise severely ing. These practices were d·iscussed not admonished. only conversationally, but in c9pnection There was considerable musical talent in with the marking system they formed the the college in those days. We do not now subject of an interesting debate at a rn eeting I refer to the Fish-horn B~igade who made of the Adelphic Society. lt was plain that I night hideous until the authorities interposed there were students in college who thought by means of a Confiscation Act, but to the that they could succeed as well and enjoy players upon the violin, the guitar, the flute, more without hard \poling.\ It was not pleas- the jewsharp and the mouth organ who, ant, however, to get caught. Translating most skillfully, were wont to give the last Latin· by means of a leaftrom a ''pony\ is easy excruciating twinge to the aching brain of so long as one is not asked to construe word the plodding student as he patiently con. by word. Forgetfulness of this fact led to a sumed the midnight oil. Athletes there wer'e, \scene\ in one of Professor Stanton's classes. • fellows who could do the \grape-vme A student bad been reading with marked. twist \ on the horizontal bar, or throw fluency and emphasis, rolling off sonorous somersaults backwards or forwards with Ciceronian periods with an elegance and · wonderfu I suppleness and agility. · Orators finish betokening great classical taste and too, who about commencement time filled the witi al·w que hen fon Arr vel hu1 col the . lll act pu of of . WI ta~ W< ch pr w C< SI rr . jt 0 a fl t

T-HE CONCORDIENSIS~ 67 ------ '- the woods and fields back of the colleges with great bellowing sounds; debaters · al·ways ready upon. any and all sides ot the· question, whose eloquence and incompre- • hensibility made them, to say the least, formidable rivals of Mr. Pratt, the great.· American traveller, and whose uproarious, vehemence more than once attracted the· hurried footsteps of some representative of college authority who came rushing in under. the impression, apparently, that the next thing, in order would be the reading of th~ riot act; embryo politicians, who knew how to pull the wires so as to control the election of the card-committee as well as of the orator of the day : poets there were, and artists, and wits, men of literary tastes and men of tashion. It would be strange indeed if there were no rascals in the lot, and yet taken as a class the students with all their whims and pranks \vere \Vell-disposed and honorable. Unnumbered recollections besides those here recorded might still further extend these notes already lengthened out beyond the original purpose: \Ve think of the wind whistling across the campus, and around the corner at the North College, \the coldest spot in Schenectady county;\ we bring to mind the familiar din from the boiler-shops just across the college pasture; we dreatn of the glistening Mohawk, the distant hills and the Ancient Dutch City sleeping peace- fully, but 1or the present must cut short these reminiscences. V. UNION COLLEGE. - DEOEM:SER 24:-th, 1880~ 'Tis Christmas eve ! Around the classic walls I hear the sweeping shadows of the night, Of a bright star, like that of Bethlehem, On which the shepherds gazed in holy dreams, And tnne, with !ove and hope, my muse to The humble advent of an heav'nly king. DECEMBER 31st, 1880. Again I stand upon the coast of time, . smg And muse on mortal change. Again I hear, From yon gray, lichened dome, her micl.night chime,. And write the number of another year, I close that volume of the past, and say, None but .sweet memories have entered there · ' No malice burns out this dim dying day But love, and love's kind offerings Ibear .. The shim.m'ring ~tar-beams dance upon the trees, The city lights burn low, the -winds are still : While E. and youthful Zor, and Mathetes, Keep up the beacon-lights on this old hill ' And wait, where soon :familiar feet shall fall , And wish, with ample hearts, good cheer to all. LUTHER EMERSON. EDITOR! ALS .. ~fHE COLLEGE authorities have at last re~ voked their decision with regard to the trans- fer of the Clark prize to the Juniors and it will remain to be competed for, this year at least, by the Seniors. Similar prizes w·ill, how- ever, be a warded to the best Junior essays on, we presume, the same subjects. This will render the transfer ot the prize to the Junior class hereafter more equitable and just.- The subjects this year for the Cletrk prizes are: 1. Crorn vvell as Lord Protector· t 2. What qualities forn1 the po\ver of Macaulay's essay on \Varren Hastings. Essays must contain between 2,500 and 3,000 words. But silence thro' ''Old Union's\ dark, dumb halls, Reigns deep; 'no shout, no echo of delight :Breaks on tlie ear; like birds of happy flight, That steal,-when Autumn's later days havecome,- A way on noiseless wings, so from my sight, THE \vork of the Seniors this tern1 under Dr. Potter has been very pleasant indeed and has not been broken into by ulterior causes as forn1erly. The class has finished Butler's .A .. nalogy and are no\v engaged on Peabod.y's Moral Philosophy. Have: all my fellows winged their passag~ home, 0 blest, thrice blest this hallowed eve to them ; While I by my low casement watch the beams, l\'HE Chancellorship of the U ni versit. y of the State of New York, which has been .. '

1. 68 THE CONCORDIENSIS .. vacant for some little time, since the death these services, we doubt the wisdom of hav- of Erastus C. Benedict, LL.D., has been filled ing them obligatory. We ask, is fhis the best by the election of Henry R. Pierson by the possible plan? Is there. not something ia ·Board of Regents at their last :J;nnual meet- the idea repugnant to every mind which will ing. Mr. Pierson has always been very counteract any good ordinarily e:onnec~ed prominently identified with Union and in-· with divine worship.? The fact that it is deed graduated here some thirty-five years compulsory is apt to lead young men to ago, and is a member ot the Board of think it is a duty they owe to the college Trustees. He is very prominent in both rules and regulations that they attend chapel business, political and educational circles, services, and they are apt to forget it is a ~ I having been for a long time a direc~or of .the~ ?uty. they owe to themselves and their G-od, N. Y. C. and H. R R. R., and lor many·. fhey attend chapel more from the thought · years a Regent of the University. He was that they will be demerited if not present, forn1erly a n1ember of the State Senate fron1 The student on entering chapel looks to see Brooklyn and afterwards in the Assembly ifthe professor is in his accustomed place from Albany, where he now resides. Rev. with class list and pencil in hand ready to Dr . .IVT urray, the Secretary of the Regents, is mark the absentees. If the professor does also a Union man, not appear he takes no comfort in the exer- WE present our readers this month \vith an article by a graduate of the class of '70 on ''College Retniniscences.\ We wish very much we could obtain .. more contributions from our Alumni. We have not much fault to find \vith their support financially, but we should be pleased to- have them send us frequently articles for publication. cises, and he asks himself\ what brought me :1rou nd this morning ? .r\. n1 always sure to be absent when he is present, and present when he is absent.\ It may be advanced that if the services were not compulsory the professor in charge might talk to ernpty seats. Surely the ser- vices ought not to be of such a character ~s to require compulsion to secure an attend- ance. Let them be made so attractive that OUR next issue will contain an account of the young men wi II not desire to remain the proceedings of the North-Western away, but will gladly spare twenty minutes Alumni Association. We hope to make it every morning. We think the introduction complete and of much interest to our Alumni. of a college choir would greatly add to the interest of the services. There is certainly No ONE denies, we venture to affirm, the musical talent enough in the college from propriety of having devotional exercises in which to select a good choir. This course the chapel in the morning. This is the best is pursued in most other colleges, and with possible way of beginning a dny's work. gratifying results. There is n-::thing which Young men may laugh and scoff at the idea, carries such hidden power as music. It calls but they do so more from the desire of hear-· into acfivity feelings which have long been ing themselves talk than from any real in- dormant, and fills the mind with lofty pur- herent opposition. The majority of them, poses. We have read how Orpheus enchant, being from christian homes, would even feel ed with music, Not only wild beasts, but .disappointed were there no services of this rocks moved from their places to follow the character. While feeling the importance of sound. There is no question but that, the ·• --- results are w course CO'mpt not so thems their c We rega_:~c Then: respec contr men< Wed scene gract: to ch all tt is tht are a and: To s this; shov men reco look is a evet on ora1 sho· the~ stu< the cha be .• 'j

- TH-E -CONCORDIENSIS. 69 --- results derived from music in such services. -Examinations fo.r conditions were held are wholly beneficial. Were some such. Feb'y 5th and will be, again, March 12th. course adopted there would be no need of -The Senior class photographs will be taken by McDonald & Sterry, of ·Albany. co'm pn lsi on, for surely the moral life here is -A Freshman reading a French disserta- not so low that it would tead men to absent tion on the chamois talked of the \ chimey .\ themselves entirely from chapel if left to What did he mean? their own free will in the matter. -Pollux is badly treated by the Fresh. We have but a word or two to say with One says that he was the son of Priam, and d h d f d . another gives him the palm in pugilastic en- rega_:~ ·.·. to t e con uct o stu · ents In chapel. counters. There has been a noted improvetnent in this . -One of our most promising Atheists respect, towards which all the classes have cooks his own meals, apropos ot which a contributed, but more especially the gentle. would-be witty youth remarks that he be- men of the Sophomore and Freshmen classes. •1ieves neither in God nor in boarding houses. We do not have to tax our memory to recall . -The J~nior who succeeds in. pu!ting on . · . . . · . paper nothmg but the name of h1s girl, when scenes enacted tn chapel of a positively d1s-: preparing his lesson in Calculus, can't under- graceful character. ln those days men went. stand why the Prof. tries to flunk him every to chapel with no other purpose than to make day. all the noise they could. How much better· -Two rnen1bers of the Freshman class, . . . · ·. . down town not long since, were stopped by IS the behavior of the present time .. Th.ere a passing oil train. Mistaking the \nature are a few, however, who devote their time of the baste\ one ot them wondered audibly and attention while in chapel to their lessons. \ where all those boilers were going.\ Not T · h ld d · answered o sue we wou say, \ o not continue .. · h . .c h . -The North- Western Alumni Association t IS; you may not care 10r t e services, but f U · C 11 h ld 't 1 · d . o n1on o ege, · e 1 s annua ·. meeting an show by your conduct that you are gentle- banquet at the G-rand Pacific Hotel, Chi- men, at least.\ We should aim to make a cago, January II th, 1881. We shall en- record while here upon which we need not deavor next mont~ to gi_ve our readers a . . taste of the good thmgs smd and done there. look back wtth regret. A word more. There Prof. Foster was there and of course was the is a tendency on the part of the students and life of the party. even some of the professors to leave chapel -A farm, a grand piano and an election to on Saturday mornings before the chapel congress or a <:hromo, are offe:ed as prizes . . . . . for the translation of the following sentences. oratwns are delivered. Th1s JS not as 1t None but Freshmen need apply: should be. All should take an interest in Ne mater suam. these exercises. This action on the part of Pugno pugnas pugna.t. Mea mater sus est mala. students and professors is certainly, to say Equus in stabulo est sed non est. the least, disrespectful to the professor in -The Sophomore class is distinguishing <:harge, and to the gentlemen about to speak. itself in Rhetoric. Roger Bacon has been accused of writing the '' Magnus Opus\ and other Latin poetry. One says that the tribes of Guinea, located at the mouth of the Elbe, were driven into the sea, and con- quered England. Another talks .of Peter Lombard's Book ot Four Sentences. And LOCAL. -No January th~w. -Jack Foste-r is back from the west. -The annual Sigma Phi Convention will be held 1\tlarch 4th. -A Sophotnore translates \fiat justitia,\ ·., judgrrH~nt' has con1e. '' so on. -Scene in Senior's room : Present two Juniors polling Greek and Senior writing to one of the ±air sex. Enter Soph.: Soph.-\ 1\1. what are you doing?\

:' 70 THE CO N:CORDIENSIS. Sen.-'' Writing a sermon.\ . !, gaiety that kept them from returning to their Soph.-\ Then I think I had better inte~\ 'college duties until the following Tuesday, rupt you w bile engaged in the Lord's busJ-i, The. Glen Mitch ell party passed off pleasant. ness.\ Jv, the attendance, however, owiug to the Jun.-\ Yes, that is always the work of'storrn, being- but about thirty couples. The the Devil.\ Exit Soph. -refreshments provided by the Cooking Club -The foHowing gentlemen were elected were par exccl!mce, The Delta Phi's avow officers of the Gillespie Club for the present themselves well pleased with their Saratoga term: President, W. B. Landreth, '81 ; Vice tdp, and say they never enjoyed themselves P -~d t ·w B R d 'u T \V better in their lives. res I en , . ·. . ee , o2 ; reasurer, . A. Waddell,. '82; Secretary, Depoy, '83; -··,Ve offer as a specimen of English .suit- Curator, J. C. Wright, '83. The Society able for a primer, Spencer's definition of Ev. was never in a more flourishing condition o'lution: '' Evolution is a change from an and is about to move into a new room in indefinite, incoherent homogeneity to a defi. North Section, North Co II eg e. · u itr ,. coherent hete rogen ei ty through co ntin. -The Adelphic-Philomathean debate will' ?-Ol;IS differentiationsand integrations .. \ P_rof. take place February 18th, in the chapel.• fait translates as foll_ows: \ EvolutiOn IS a The subject to be debated is \Resolved that:' ch,ange from a nohGwlsh ~ntalkabo.utable all. the execution of Mary, Queen of Scots, was: al1,l<eness to a someh~nv1sh and m g.eneral justifiable.\ Messrs. johnson,. '81 ; Waddell, talkabo:utable ~ot.a!lahkeness by contmuous '82, and H.ansdell, '82, of the Adelphic, will . S?me~'~mg-elseificauons and stic~togethera. speak on the affirmative, and Messrs. Wil- t1ons Fo: per~ons of ~trong~r.mmd_s we rec- liams, '.81; Waller, '82, and Mu~ray, '82, of o~mend ;\'1~- Kirkman s defimhon ot chan~e. the 1-'hdomathean, on the negative. Under- \\. e had no Idea that c~ange v:as sue~ a sm1- grad uates and citizens are cordially invited pl~ process. \Change Is_ a penchoretlcal syn- to be present. Four ushers will provide edt y of.pamparalla~matic and ~oroter~por~; seats for ladies and gentlemen. nean1at1cal differentiations and Integratlo.Qs. -The cigarettes of the Kinney Tobacco QUERIES FOR JUNIORS. ___ Co., successors to Kinney Brothers, 515 to A A 5 25 West Twenty-Second Street, New York, · re msterdam girls good looking? Was that cat alive ? justly enjoy a higher reputation than any D'd G. · fi sin1ilar manufactures in this countrv. In the . 1 · · runes pay ve or ten cents for that , pack of cards? first place, only fhe finest natural rice paper · Is waltzing conducive to a healthy ~oral is used by them, thus assuring the smoker condition? ag-ainst the injuries that attend the shellac, I · r arsenic and other health-sappin~ sophistica- 5 It po Icy to pull an Amsterdam girl's <.J locks? tions that are found in the interior papers Was a game of billiards on that third floor used by other firms. The Kinney Tobacco table worth ten cents? Company make a great nun1 ber of _brands, o 1 ·d tlJe ki.ss 1 · 11 the 0 '\'l . . · · · c · rner pay r to suit every shade of taste among Cigarette Did the supper come just in time to save smokers, and the appreciation in which these soinething? are held is an1ply attested by the fact that W , J J h 1 1 ld · · · h ·... · asn t . . D. B. B. D. in his e 1 em en t ? t ey are arge y ·so In every City In t e n:rl h World, and wherever their n1erits are known ·vv lere was t at piano? to the exclusion of all other makes. For a· vVere the last tw9 hours enjoyable to the colored manipulators of Giblets aux Bor- real delicious, SVweet SD1oke, try tbeir latest dea U:X ? cigarette, the \ eteran.\ Did it pay to go to bed ? -The Delta Phi Society g-ave a reception What is a man's condition when four over- to the Saratoga Cooking Cluh at Glen Mitch- coats; a trunk and student on top of him fail ell, Friday evening, January 3 I st. Five of to arouse him? the boys went up in the afternoon. The re- Who killed that sparrow? Not I, ~ays mainder started on a later train, and, owing. M-. to a storm and a collision, did not arrive at Does it pay to get on the last of a train ot Saratoga till the next morning about the time twenty cars and walk to the first to get your the rnerry-makers were returning. As a rec- seat? ompense to the, young gentlemen Who had: Did you see a Junior at church Sufiday been delayed,. the ladies arranged a round of moming? •· .~ .L cla~ serr M., in a oft yea on the she ot 1 th<: a c U1t da le2 . 111 co de L' pr gc fo P.) tll T F: E M at T n: lV E 0' li 1< ~ \' c . 11

a •. . THE. 'C:ONCORDIENSIS. 'THE JUNICJR CLASS StJPPER. r~she? on b?itrd and proceed~d to pass. th,e Like e~erything else undertaken by the ~tme, mcludmg a delay by accident, by smg- class, th1s was, a success. The boys as-· mg college songs, and at w A. M. arrived at sembled at the Schenectady depot at 6:4-o p .. S.! unan~mously voting that they had spent M., to take the Amsterdam train. All were a JOlly mght and would go again next year, in ajolly mood, for lVIechanics was a terror of the pas~, and the grand event of the junior year \vas ll1 the near future. The train was on time for once, and the class was soon on the way. A census taken on the train soon [We would solicit aid from our Alumni in showed that in spite of the illness of some making: our persnnal department as complete ot the men almost all were present. ·as possible. To that end we would ask that · The train soon reached AmsterdaiD, and. any items of interest concerning our Alumni . the boys, after announcing their arrival by be sent us.] a college cheer, scattered in search of amuse- 'zo. Rev. George Mairs, one of our oldest ment. Th<?Y found i~ in the shape of fairs, livin~ gradl!-at~s. is 9-uietl y spending the dances,. pnvate part1es, and, last but not evenmg of h1s life at h1s home in Argyle, N~ least, a collection ot stuffed and live aniinals Y ., amid the scenes of his youth a lid his life's in 'which one of the members made some dis: wo~k. H~ takes great interest in the pros- coveries in natural history. penty ot h1s Al~a Mater. At twelve o'clock all assembled and sat '36. Rev. Lui?ton \V. Curtis is pastor ot down to .one of the bountiful repasts which the Congregatwnal church at Richmond Landlord Wemple so well knows how to Mass. Mr. Curtis is a powerful and fervenf provide. After doing ample justice to the speaker, greatly loved and respected by his good Gheer, the toasting began, when the people, whom he has served for many years. following toasts were wittily responded to '48 .. John A. MacFarland is principal of ):>y the gentlemen named: Union's dis- W ashmgton Academy, Salem, N. y ., and tinguished men in politics, Arthur S. Wright; has prepared many pupils for Old Union. · The Class of '82, L,uther R. Hargrave ; rhe Faculty, Fred D. Van W agenen ; The '68. The publication of Prof. Webster's El:J.uestrians of '82, E. C. Murray; Our Alma two books on the marine fauna of the Mater, J 0s. E. Ransdell; Our past difficulties American. coast, h~s been assumed by the and our future hopes, Herbert C. Hinds; Sta~e. Hls collect;wn has already placed the Those who, though lost to sight, are still to 0010 ': College museuui in the department of memory dear, Robert E. Morgan: Our annehdre beyond that of· any institution in Mashers, Sheldon M. Griswold ; '8z's Editors, the country. Edmund E. Ford ; The beards embryo or '70. Hon. William H. Clark is one of the ~therwise, John r Drowne; The way we participants in the Normal School broil in lrve, John G. Peoli. Impromptu toasts fol- Cortland, where he edits the Cortland Stand- lowed, interspersed with .singing, during · ard. He is also a member of the Republican wh~ch our iriend. Drowne gave us a solo, State Committee. wh1ch was heartily encored, and our old '74-· G. W. Hoadlev is the efficient princi. class-mate, Sylvester, responded to a toast pal of Fort Ed ward 0 nion School. in a happy n1anner. ' J l At four A. M. our toast master, W. J. 77· · ?ra eman has been joined in the bonds P 11 d ot n~atr1m?ny to one ot Eve's fair dauQ.\hters. o ar , gave the signal tor the class song H f f L · (.J the com posit ion of Chas. Temple, and th~ e lS pro essor o atm and Greek in I ves ~eminary, .. -\ntwerp, N.Y. boys dispersed, the knowing ones, who had secured rooms in ad vance, to bed, but the 's.o. A~ders~n is back in Schenectady. He others to pass the time in the parlors while busies hlmselt over engineering draughtS waiting for the five o'clock train, which carne and chemical laboratory work. at ~:45, long before which time the boys had Landon when last heard trom was in adJourned to the depot where J. J_ D. de- Rome doing the Cataco~bs et<;:. monstrated his ability to keep the sleepy Lo~ell is in the bankmg busmess in San _p:owcl, good natured lor a couple ot hours. Francisco, Cal. . . Qq th(( arrival of the trilin the class, with a . Muhlfelder res1des Ill Alb~ny, an~, if rumor cheer' for their Amsterdam· entertainers .IS true, contemplates becnmmg a hm b. of tAe · ' law . .. \

·.1. 'I . ' .. ~ . / 72 THE .. co~N-COR·DlENSIS. '81. Miller and Vedder, L. T., graduate in.-dropped dead on J\1onday afternoon in the March from the MediGal Department of drug store of S. L. Rumsey, in that place. Union University. He \vas eighty years of age. While a resi- '82. Sy Ivester is studying law. in Utica. · dent of Albany he was elected to the judie. White is with the Sc,ott-Siddons troupe iary. and achieved considerable distinction. and appeared \Vith then1 the last week of He was a son ot the late f{ev. ~liphalet Nott, January in Albany. He has been on the, president of Union Cotlege, and uncle of the stage several months and bears the nom de present president ot that institution, Elipb- plume of Harry Havens. a let N ott Potter. f-Ie was a brother-in-la,v We \vould append a word with regard to of Bishop Alonzo Potter, of New York, and the gentleman \vho for severa] years, up to. Clarkson N. Potter. He studied law with about a year ago, occupied the Latin chair. President Van Bureri,, and tor some years Rev. Dr. R. T. S. Lo,vell is still residing in, had been engaged in writing a work·entitiled, ·schenecta.dy and is absorbed in _liter~ry (\Constitutional Ethics.\ The im1nediate work. His latest works are two h1stoncal r cause of death was apoplexy. tales, one having its scenes a11.d ~gures cast l • 32 • Henry Mesier at \Vappingers Falls, 1 So years ago, and the other being a con- January 2 6 I88I tinuation of his ''A Story or Two from an , . . ' , . .' . Old Dutch Town.\ His books all meet· 33· J. M. Scribner, January Io, 1881, aged with a large demand and the Doctor can . 75, years. . justly be called one of the popular authors 3S·· Rev. Levi M. Graves at Rosston, of the day. Montgomery county, Penn., December 3r~ 188o .. It is with deep regret that the Junior class finished their course of l\ti athernatics under Prot. Price. The h8rdest mathetnatical work of their college course is now cornpleted. The hearty interest and con1mendable pa- tience the Professor has always taken in explaining every difficult point, and also in illustrating all mathen1atical applications, w·hen possible, has \von the affecti'on and well-wishes of the whole class. He has had an unusual an1ount of \Vork to perform this terrn ; yet that constant untiring devo- tion of his faculties for the best interest of each one of the class has ever been present. He has airned not only that each student should gain a thorough knowledge of the subject, but that his n1ind should obtain the highest discipline \vhic'h the study affords. This ardent zeal for the welfare of the student is manifested not only in the recitation but in his private room ;_ and in virtue of this the Junior class will not be quick to forget his services in their behalf, and will ever look back on the comparatively short course taken under him with complete satisfaction of their irnprovement in mind and a feeling of in- debtedness to hitn .. ---------- -----~···~~------··~---- -----·----~- ···-···----- '40~ l{ev. \Villiam K. Platt at Ludlowville, N. Y., ()ctober 30, I 88o, aged 63 years. I '57· Ex-State Senator Ab iah \\1. Palmer at Atnenia, Duchess Co., N. Y., January 10, I 88 r. J-Ie represented the Duchess and Colurn bia district in the State Senate in I 868- gand I 872--3. COLL EGENSIA, ./ Dartmouth has decided to ad mit ladies. The Seniors of Syracuse affect Grecian literature. Colu1nbia plays foot-ball according·to- the Rugby rules. The Wabash College Library contains I 8,300 volumes. A new Philological Society ·has been fortned at Harvard. - l\'he instruction in Physics given at Cornell is the san1e to students in all courses. At Amherst the students are compelled to attend church twice a day on Sunday. Prof. Allen, of Cinci_n11ati College, h~s been appointed professor of Philology at Yale.' ()BII'UARY. Princeton piety is to have a stimulus in The deaths of the follo\ving Alun1ni are the shape of a new chapel \V hich vvill cost announced : $8o,ooo. '23. Judge Benjamin Nntt, fPnnerly of 'Ihe University of Minnesotq. has an ()ra .. New· , ... ork, \Vho res1ded \Vith his son in toricctl Association nun1bering seventy-five. South Arlingt.;:Hl aven·ue, East Orange~ N·. J ., . n1en1 bers. --- Etc the s1 edge Th .rnent from A been Pro±~ At matt cept Geo· TJ stud wou wat( one C: anc< the .of i1 bon B $5,C Ha· anz sch has ' shi set gn af pe· Al ab Gc n~ G· A T ar rn fr 31 c tl a v t . 1:

_, THE ;CON·CORDIENSIS: Eton College, Eng., has a factory jn which· of the time since, but it is believed he will the students may obtain a practical knowl- recover. edge of tools. , ·. At a large meeting of students held in The Cornell University Botanical Depart- Berlin, lately, to debate the best means for rnent has just received a donation of $10,000 ·extending the anti-Jewish agitation, deputa- from the Hon. H. W. Sage, ot Ithaca. · tions fr:om the universitie> at Gottin\'en A number of Oxford, (Eng.) students have Leipzic, Kiel, Rostock and H~lle were Pre- been suspended tor locking up some of the sent .. F?m:teen hundred Berlm students ~nd Professors in one oi the cOllege buildings. · ! ,ozz Le1l?~tc s~udent~ ~nd ma~y others sign· A -t H -d th _ ld . ·t t-' _ t . ed an antt-J e\vlsh pet1t1on to Bismarck. The~ arvar e o rec1 a ton s J s en1 In h · · h d · · d h · D mathematics has given plac.e to lee_ tures, ex- ~ult o_rt~tesf aveth IS:mlstsef-_ t-:he ap-ttattor, r. - t · th - ·b d · Al b t:. enr1c1s, ron1 e pos o sc ootmas er. cep m • e prescn e courses m ge ra, . . . · . Geometry and Trigonometry. The Semor.s at Brown are lamenting the Th h . 't t R t b t 'i' th cruel fate which compels them to bear the t d e~ ave 1 dh 0 1 orst~ . u gers, u \h e expense of the commencement dinner. They s u fJ s cou .· b tv~ their o;n war b .ey regard it as a serious affliction, and as the wotu .. _h dsol?kn l~t·tOltsb- e syds etmh, t 0 t elnbg en.t.reaties of previous classes have failed to w a c e - 1 e 1 : e - oys-an . a • oo J p · - · 1 d · · one oi their own number. ' , .m thoye b. rhovllfdenc; ~o a ~pecla f. Ishp~nsatliondon • · ~1r e . a . , an' t 1n v1ew o- t e1r s en er Caze~ovi~ Seminary has the largest atte~d- ··purses, the mem hers of '8 I propose that ance this wmter for. three Y.ears, and dunng :the difficulty . be met by assessing the th~ past 12 months It has dischaq~<?d $40,000. Alumni-a plan generally adopted, and far of mdebtedness throug~ the sacnh~e of her preferable to burdening a few rnen with an bond-holders and the g1fts of her frtends. · unnecessary expense. Bowdoin is .in luck. A la~y has just giv~n Endowments amounting to over $5o,ooo $5,ooo·to repair the found,atwn of ~emonal have recently been secured by President Hall. . Mr. Mack~y, the San Francisco bon- Potter for Union College and scholarships anza kmg_, has giVen $50,000 to . found .a· established which wiH date trom September scholarship, and a gentleman oi Pbtladelphm I, r88 r. The administration ot President has given another $5o,ooo. Potter has been successful in a marked de- Vassar has been presented with a scholar- gr~e, f?r during it Union College has re- ship fund ot $3,000 by Dr. Barringer, the ceived m the shape of bequests and endow- scholarship to go to the best scholar in the ments no le~s than $5oo,ooo, and the number graduating class who shall be a daughter of of studen~s mcreas~d !rom So to 200. This a physician, and shall offer herself as a com. showing IS exceedmgl y gratitying to P resi- petitor for a prize. d~n.t .Potter's many friend~ .in this city and . At a re-union of the Williams College v~cmtty. Our. former cittzen has prov~d Alumni at Cleveland lately, over so gradu- himselt to be 10 a broader sens~ a pu~hc ates attended, including Gen. Garfield, b~netactor, for he saved f~om Impendi.ng Gov. Bross, C. E. Fitch, ot the Rochester disaster, a.n~ P!a~ed on a firm ~oundat1on Democrat, President Chadbourne and others. through ~Is m?IVI~ua~ effort~, a ~Ime-hono_r- Gen. Garfield made a short speech. ~d collegiate mstJ.tutwn which mcludes .m . tts roll of Alumm some of the most dis- They have ~he .new markmg system at tinguished persons in the country.- Troy Amherst, an_d 1t IS pro~1ounced _a success. Ti 1 nes. They are go1ng to exper1n1ent still turther and in another direction at the next com- mencen1ent, for it has· been decided to strike fron1 the list of exercises the V aledictorv ..... and Salutatory. EXCHAN..GES. -The University Herald quotes us as call- ing it \one of our 'vestern exchanges.\ The Herald n1ust be mistaken, for after a diligent search \Ve can find in no issue of the CoN- George L. Ferris ot the Senior class in Cornell University, \vhile sliding down· hill there the other evening, tried t<> turn out tor a couple of girls, when his sled tipped over while going at great speed. His head was. The Oberlin Revie-w grew wild at our refer- thrown against some object and he was made ence to Oberlin as the great '·' Baby School.\ insensible. He has continued delirious rn ost ·Well, pray, what name is more appropriate to CORDIENSIS any such ref~rence.

- i . I v4 TlfE CONCORDTENSIS. an institution of learning \vhere the students ·-·· Librarian (looking for lost sheep-bind- are fettered by the most stringent and ob- ings)-\One of Dickens' novels is missing, un. noxious rules fanaticism can devise? While. charged.\ we doubt not that the powers that framed: Student-'' I've got one of Dickens' nov ... their college la \VS did it for the best, yet • els. ': . we know that the students of Eastern col- Librarian-. ·''Yes, I know; you have Ken- ' leges need no such rules and wouid never: £luJort/z.\ Class hovvls-Hobart Herald'. qubmit to thern. Perhaps, however, the ()ber- ·. -Scene at a co-educational school: He lin students are so de!:msed as to render • was a new student and evidently not settled the _maximum of restramt necessary. The·. for the term yet. He rang the bell, }'<mng RevzeZf! also retorts b.r, dubbmg Umt~n the. lady appeared, of whom he very anxiously \College of Refuge. That name IS not· inquired, \Would yoll. like t.o have a room- half as good as the old_ one, \Botany mate?\ He told the boys afterwards that he Bay,\ which used to be applted to us. q-oo? . was· excited, but did not see why the door ground indeed for such a name_ for an mst1- should have been shut in his face.-- T7ans- thtion where in six years back four rnen have cri_pt. been adn1itted \vho have ''left\ other col- leges-only a third as n1any as we have ex- pelled in the same ti tne. EXTRANEA. -Her lips were like the leaves, he said, Ey Autumn's crimson tinted; Some people Autumn leaves preserve, By pressing them, she hinted. -Ex. -T'here is one good thing about Sarah B.'s figure anyway. Very little goes to waist- Yale News. -There is every reason to suppose that. many Englishmen are being Boered to death in South Africa.-Ez. -A wicked Yale paper says Bern- hardt's stockings. vvere filled Chris~mas, ~ne with a slate pencil and the oth.er With a stick of candy. -A toast to Oberlin: No late hours, no cigars, not even a cigarette, no buggy rides, no moonlight strolls, no serenades, no noth- in'.-Advocate. ·-Prot. of Social Science-\ What be- cotnes of all the pin5? '' Mr. D.-\ I sup- pose they go into the earth and come up as terrapins.\-Ez. -\tVe have about come to the conclusion that, after aU, there is no decor~tor w~o can con1pare \Vith. Old Jack Frost In getting up a frieze.--Hobart Herald. THE RIVAL. FROM THE COLUMBIA SPECTATOR. Thou think'st, fond lover, that her smiles Are only meant foT thee, And thou art sure that from all wiles None are so free as she. · Thou think'st that thee alone she'd love, Though many came to woo ; That eyes blue as the heaven above Could ne'er prove aught but true. But know that those eyes daily beam On one more loved-alas I I fear that I've destroyed love's dream; Thy rival's but her glass. A FATAL FLIRTATION. F. 13, R, Light a cigarette, Toin, and take that easy chair, And I'll tell you a little story, Tom, that will make JO'I.lf honor stare. It's all about a girl, of com·se-her picture's over thexe; And don't you think she's pretty, Tom, with ail that golden hair? I met her last vacation, in a little country town, And at a country ball, Tom-and, yes, her name was Brown. She said she lived in Brooklyn, and knew some .friends of mine, Who gave away completely our latest little \shine.\ A.h, Tom! my heart beat faster as I saw her passnextda.y, For somehow, Tom, she touched me in a curious· S()r-t ()f way. And then we went out walking, too, to get some fi()-w-ers: ·a ~ we sa1·, . But I got one little flower, Tom, and for that I lost my head. N e~t day I called and told of the conquest she.had ooa.de,. And that I lov~d-but here she interrupted, . a;o.d very coldly said : · · · · -Enquire_r-.~.~ colleg~ is ~ place. \V here .a young man 1~ kept dunng the per~od he ~s SO\ving his wild oats, and thu.s rel~eves his fan1ily of the annoyance of ha Vlng h1m about. ( ' I -Post . ''These very words you uttei·ed, with eyes and face aglow· . . . . . , Tp my pretty sister Daisy, about a year ago.\ · · · · -Athenreu1rt.; · - ----- Mt And I07 S1 BO~ SCI- Civ1 Dea C( ra.l

THE CONCORDIENSIS. Ill -- WILLIAM Merchant STOOPS, Tailor ! And Dealer in Cloths, OassimeTes, Vestings, Etc. ~ JUST OUT MILDESTl RICHEST I SMOOTHEST SMOKING CIGARETTE EVER MADE. 107 State St., Schenectady, N. Y. NEW VANITY FAIR! ------------------·-·---·-- -··-··--··· ·-·-----··--- WILSON DAVIS, A DAINTY RWEET-BIT. INCOMJ?ARABLEl SURE TO PLEASE·I JAEI\_CHANT TAILOR. 8 FIRST PRIZE MEDALS. WM. s. KIMBALL & CO., 115 State St., SCHENECTADY, N.Y. PeerlessTobacco Works, Rochester, N.Y. W. H. g. S. V. LINES~ DEALERS IN THE GARNET :BOOTS, SHOES & RUBBERS, WILL SOON APPEAR. BARNEY BLOCK, SCHENECT:\DY, N.Y .. Y'· ~ J--· ?· puRLEY, MANUFACTURERS OF Civil Engineers' & Surveyors' Instruments, TROY~ N.Y. Dealers in Dl'awing Instruments of every descl'iption, Sheet and Roll Drawing PapeT, Engineers' and Surveyors' Transits, etc., etc. L. G. BuRGEss' SoN -~Co., COLLEGE F~TERNITY Bj\DGES, No. 12 PLAIN STREET, ALBANY; N.Y. ~----------------- THIS IN'TERESTING · College Annual -IS NOW- IN COURSE OF PREPARATION UNDER THE AUSPICES OF And will be Teplete with good things. It will be Rent immediately on pnblicat1on, to all wllo. send Fifty cents to HORATIO G. GLENN, MANAGER. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. We oonnnend Olll' Badges for t.heh Fineness and Du.... ~For advertising rlttes adl..lress as abovt~. rability.

i r ' I ' ! j I r f ·I i i - t- . I . [ . r I l ,_ . , I I I I . I I t ·. I I / I i I ! ! _I • I \i I I I I I, l . i ' ' \. .i • Jr . 'I . . . - .. .,., IV r·HE CON•CORDfENSIS. ..... ~ ·- .,._ .. J()HN SCHtJMr\CHER, AGENT FOR (Successor to John Gilmour,) ·· - h DEALER IN Fitzpatrick's Fine Boots & S oes . . BOOKS; ST ATllONEB.Y, Particular attention paid to Ctis.torn. Work and Repairing. PAPER HANGINGS, &c. No. 201 State and 116 Centre St., ScJIENECTADY, N. Y. 267 State St., Schenectady, N. y. · Agency for Anchor, Inman and Hamburg-.>\merican Trans-Atlantic Steamship Lines. · Sanford Block. A. ERO~-N-- & SO.N., UPHOLSTERERS AN-D FuR N.I Tt1 R E.. s T A. G E' s }I£ANUFACTl!RERs. • Ladies' & Gents' rJ?estaurant, I 54 State St., - Schen~ctad y ~ N. Y. CHAS. N. YATES. FURNITURE go . VPHO~S.TERlNG WAREHOUSE., ~Special Attention Given to Undertaking. No. 62 State St., Schenectady, N. Y L. T. CL,UTE, FASHIONABLE HATTER} }--~~ ~7 4_S_T_A_~_E_. S_V __ TA~R~~-E;_· '-L--~-CC_H_;_~_E_C_T_A_D_Y~. __ DEALER IN FLOUR AND COAL,. Sawed and Split. Wood of every Description, Lime, Ce- ... ment, Pressed Hay by the Ton or Bale. Nos. 57 Centre & 7 Pine · Sts. Schenectady. Globe-Hotel, Best .Assortment in the City of HA'r.S, CAPS, TRUNKS, BAGS, ETC. CoRNER STATE, SouTH PEARL AND HowARD STREETs, N y Entrance, 7 South Pearl St. ALBANY, . . Agent for Dunlap and Knox Hats. 101 State St., Schenectady, N. Y . ANDREW Me MU·LLEN, Wholesale and Retail in, Coal, · 92 and 94 Union St., Schenectady. . ' JAMES B. ALEXANDER, Dealer in Staple And Fancy Groceries, Goods just as cheap !tnd just as good as anywhere in the city. CHOICE CIG.ARS AND TOBACCO. 225 State Street, Schenectady. W. T. HANSON & CO., JAlriES A. HO UO.K, Proprietor. Terms, $2,oo per day. R. K. QUAYLE, ALBANY, N1 Y. DIPLOMAS, -VIEWS, PORTRAITS, ~EDDIN'G AND COLLEGE INVITATIONS, CARDS MONOGRAMS, ETC., ETC. Original Designs vvhen desired. SANDERS, JEWELER. 109 S'fATE S1~., SCHENEC~TADY, N. Y. DANCING. nnn ., .fl. .AP~ ;(I .fl. 7!~ f) A. G. G Rt fl V E Sj JR., ·_JLIJ'U\U!J!J1bl~fb§ ID.V .L11!Jf_)({)ruf!t!.Xf!XCOJ/Jr 1 ~;(/38' · Teacher of Dancing, announce.s that his Academy, Nos .. 59 and 6x TOILET AR1'IOLES AND DRUGGISTS' ·· ~orth Pearl St., Albany, N. _Y.; IS noyv open f~r the reception of pu- su \ NDRIES p1ls, who may .enter at any time. Children, Misses and Masters meet • • every SATURDAY AI·i'TERNOQ~ at three o'clock. Ladies and Gentlemen meet every MONDAY EVENING at 7 o'clock. The ~Fine Cigars a Specialty. Waltz and two other round dances taught perfectly in Six PriV(tt6 195 State S \t. S' '-e ctady N Y Ltwou,s. N. B.-Positively no failure in this school. His style of ' \Gu ne · ' · . · · Waltz is universal, and may be danced with any waltzer in any part of the world. Call at the Academy at any time. Terms ·moderate: S . H ~ V E D ·D E R , . BA U~':S Coal Wh~~d<J.ta!l :fY ood,. CIGj\R STORE )ND I\EWS ~OOM. RE lFJNED CJD.ER AMOI PURE CJ .. DER VINEGAR · The choicest brand of Cigars and 'l'obacco constantly 1 t · . . .. t~. . ·\ , .· . \ ' on hand. Cigarettes a s.pecialty. A.ll the lea_ding pe- P. o. Bo.x· 43 6. No. 6x P.ARK PLACE, Schenectady. ' riodic11ls. Snbscr1pt.ions respectfully solicited.. · · 101 .\lso mal No. j -- B< We a E Rea( } sc

. . .. ~. -·· THE CONCORDIBNSIS. v -----· ..,...., '--'' ._......_.,.............. _,..,...,, ._...... __..;,---'-'-\'--------------_____..-----...__ .......,-'t'w=ll1r\\\\'-''\-'\\\\ ..... -~, •·N , ••. ~~~~~------ GE'ORGE E. VINCENT, GENTS' lfURNISIIING GOODs,.· ' Y. 6x of art · Apd Ma.n11facturer of the · .ll:Af(,!J E.N1' CITY' SHIRT_, :IY.I~yers' Block ·· ' ' ' ~\CHENEC~J ADY, ... . .. . N.Y. ----- AU.STIN'S r 10TH REGIMENT BAND 1 .And Orchestra. B:E-8'1. 1 J\'IL.J~·ICAL ORGANIZ,A'riON IN THE sr-r A'T'F~!t .\lso makes a specialty of furnishing Music for Private Parties, with or without Pianist. ;:tr' Gentlemanly deportment a consideration as well as music. FRED. AUSTIN, LEADER. No. 77 State St., Albany, N. Y .. HAMMAN & RITZER, MANUF AOTURERS AND DEALERS IN BOOTS .. & SHOES~ 122~ UNION STREET,_ . ;SCHENECTADY, f· J· We are doing REPAIRING and CUSTOM WORK at BEM.A.BKA.B:LY LOW RATES. If you do not be- lieve it, call nnd test ou1· prices. We fU'e loca.t.ed near the College, and especially solicit STUDENTS' PATRONAGE.' \ WOOD BROS. SIDRi;;l') Made to Order. • /~ ...... Ready-Made, A LARGE LINE OF UNDERWEAR. All the latest style SCARF'S1 TIES, COLLARS, &C., &C. - - - z < ·~ \ 0 0 s UJ t-d ~ <'V ~ <'V ~ ~ f@ 0 ~ e\t- z 0 ei- ...... Q ~ 0 0 ~· ~· tiJ C) trl > \1l d ~ r r .trj r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0 \l'j tJj 0 0 ~ (/) - tP 0 \\0 ~ 0 --a c...., ('t) ~ I'\'! • ~- C/) :c .J,.. ~ ~ ~ ~ C/) .~· tJj 0 t::l (Jq ..., t;l ;J> CFJ > t'1 ~ ·~ t;l ::0· :::l td 0.. ..., ~ :c u ~ (0 ~ (\) 0 0 \'1 z t-j ~ r-1' ~· [I1 0 t!j ::l V1 ~ . ~ ~ . ' ~. ·~~ NOB BY- CLOTHING·~· FOR FALL vVEAR. FINE READY-MADE 0VKRCOATS, SUITS, PANTS. Young Yen's Trade Solicite<.l at ····· ~G-oods Received for Troy Laundry. 133 State Street, ScHENECTADY, N.Y. Cor. Broadway c.~ Maiden Lane, Albany, N. Y~ WILSON & GROSS',

VI THE CONCOROIENSIS. LOCOMOTlVE WORKS. Continues to receive orders, and to furnish; with proinptrie-ss, · \ THE BEST AND LATEST I!1PROVED CO)L OR WOOD . BURNit{_G LOCOMOTIVE ENGINE~, AND OTH-ER MAcHINJe:RY, TrREs, &c. And also to repair and r~build locomotives. The a-'bove works are localed on the N.Y. C. R. R., near the center of the Sta,te, anrl possess· superior facilities for forvvarding wol?k to .any part of the country. CHAS. G. ELLIS, ·wALTER Me QUEEN, RJ:l~ARD ELLIS, JOHN SWIFT, President. Vice-President. Treasurer. Superinten-dent -·------~-----------------------------------~~-~~----------------~--~-----------~~---- JOSEPH GILLOTT'S f . STEEL PEN'S. Sold byou'f!tn~··~'':'rl!.\ough- I ~ The_ favorit.e Number~;: 30~,: 404, 352, 351, 170, and his other styles. 1a8o. Fa./1 And ,winter.· 1881. ELOCUTION. WELLS. Look here for all the N obby Styles of -. I-lATS AND CAPS at rock J>ottom prices. Pupils pt·epared for Public Ren.det•s and Teachers of BEYER, '' ,-f.H E \ HATTER, ElJcution. The system. of ges·tn1!e and expr~s:aion ent- pl,)yed is the s:tme a$ taught in ·the Co-nserVR.tary at 149 State ~~t., Schenectady. Paris. Application ca.u b& made at residence, 305 Olin- ----- ·-------- ----·--------------·--- ton Av-e,ntte, .Albany, between 4 ~and u P. M:. · Address, R ··QQ·· ·M·· .. : :841\fUEL E. WELLS, Drawer88; Albany N. Y. Y. M. C. i\. COFFEE Corner State and Ferry Streets. .BlLL OF FAh..E. ·. :.T · ·, Mr. \Yells was engaged u.pon the leading ~ecture courseR last season. Strengthening and d€veloping weak voices a specialty. Send for circulat·. C•ysters, Raw t :t2 Cents. Milk Toast, - :ro Cents ~· StewR;~,. x.·5 '' Brea(i and ~1ilk, s .. n Fried; - !ZS .. 1 ' Bread and Butter. 3 H Beefsteak, or Ham and Sandwiches, (each) - 3 \ Eggs with Potatoes;· Crullers, - Two for ::1 '' hread and Butter, and E!.gs, boiled, poached, Coffee, 25, \ tried, scrambled.( each) 3 \ Haked Beans per plate, 6 •• Coffee or Tea. · - 3 u Pot of B:oston Baked .Pie, 5 H Beans-to order, so \ Milk per glass, 3 \' :Milk Sangaree, - 5 H W\' Free Readmg Room and Library adjoining. C. F, . RIEGER, SHAVING A.ND HAIR DRESSING PAR.LORS. . . Patronized. by Students. I 87 State St., (Up stairs) Schenectady. KINB, \ THE\ TAILOR. 102 State St., Schenectad)< All the Latest Styles· of. OassimPres, Beavers and Suit- in:gs· always on hand. ~Garments Cut an...t Made in the Latest Styles at the Cheapest Rates. ----~----~--~----------··· - -~----- THOS~ H. REEVES & C()., .DEA.L'ERS IN Fancy and Staple Dry Goods, OARPE\J;IN'GS CLOTHS, &c., Also, a large line of Cloths and Cassimeres. I 37 State St., Schenectady, N. Y. ·----- --· ·-·---~------------_!_ ____________ --'----------- PRINTED .A TJiiE .AMSTERDAM DAILY DEMOCRAT s•.rE.AM PRINTING HOU.SE. :PUBLISH1l co ROBl c. TEMPL W. One T. Sqll .. ThtCON 1 ai Wright' \I. CL laureate cc purs1:1e ad< 2. Sc1 guages an and Erigli~ 3· ~Cl mel!-t enJo· tion, in its tions of m facilities J work. . 4· · Ec sele·cted a1 one who, col_ll:pleti_ol There .and Natm . . . ~ For Cat (

