THE CONCORDIENSlS -------- ---------·------ --- VOL. VI. ScHENECTADY, N. Y., APRIL, r883. No. VII. PuBLISHED ·MoNTHLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION CoLLEGE. -~-----------------~--·------ Entered at the Post Office at Schenectady as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF- JOHN R. HARDING, '83. Litermy Department, ~ Athletic Department, ~ Local Department, ]. W. HIGSON, '84. . 1 Z. CLARK. '84. F. BAILEY,. '85. . E. MITCHELL, '8s. - ]. H. VEEDER, '84. Personal Department, - Exchange Department, ~ Extranea Department, E. H. ADRIANCE, '83. Collegensia Department. BUSINESS MANAGER-A. T. C. HAMLIN, '83 . . THE CONCORDIENSIS. ONEDOLLARPER YEAR, IN ADVANCE. SINGLE NUMBERS, TEN CENTS. ADIJRESS: A. T. C. liAYILIN, P. 0. Box, 456, Sc!zeJuctady, N. Y. flifB\ The CoNcORDIF.Nsrs will be found on sale at Barhyte's, I I 1 State Street. ------------- --- .. --------- ·- - Printed by Chas. Burrows, Steam Printer, 187 State Street, Schenectady, N. V. Editorial Deparbnent, Literary Departlnent. 1 53 Poem-An April Shower, J imjams J itn, I 57 157 the Poem-The Fiddle and Bovv, I 61 8 ~1lditorial. T HIS issue has been unavoid- ably delayed on account of the late beginning of the term. Our local editors ·were nearly all out of · town, so we had to wait for that dep- artment, which we try to make the most important. P ROF. Webster made the History of Philosophy such an inter- t esting study last year that the Sen- iors are nearly all taking it this tern1. The work follows very well in the extra Metaphysical course which a large number of the class have al- ready been pursuing \vith the Pro£ A Bad Boy's Diary, r6r ' T HE holiday rest has been very A Woman's Folly, - r62 John Howard Payne; 1 6 4 acceptable to all, both Profes- Mr. Gustavus Simplesweet sors and Students. The hard work and Spring Time, r65 of second term, the cold weather Local Department, r68 and the confinen1ent of so much in- Personal Department, - I 73 Collegensia Department, - I 74 Exchange Departtnent, - I 75 Extranea Department~ I 76 door life is now, with pleasure, ex- changed for easier work, a shorter tern1 and the recreation of field and

154 THE CONCORDIENSIS. campus~ The bright spring weather is always a joy to the college student, an usher in of base-- ball and other athletic sports, when we doff our heavier apparell and cultivate the free and easy ,manner indicative of a student life. The Freshn1an as- sumes his cane and begins to put on the cold-bloodedlook of Sophomorism. The So ph now sated with his thirsty revenge on the innocent Fresh and ·with ardor cooled by the soothing in- fluence of calculus and other easy branchesr cultivates his mustache and blocks, buys the latest style of stiff hat, sticks his hands into both pock- ets, struts the ca-mpus and thinks himself a Junior. And what shall we say of our J nniors, our quiet, sclzolarly Juniors ; the pets of the college, the pride of our ·hearts. gentlemanly, dignified Seniors 1 what thoughts throng their minds when just now stepping out upon life's threshold? The labors, the pranks, the pleasures of college days are nearly a1l in the past, an~ the stern re8.lities of the world confront you~ Eut a grand gulf lies between this and con1n1encen1ent. The bills, yes the bills~ ~those frightful demons haunt your every path with menacing aspect. Your dip, your laundry bill, ''n1ine host,,. the Schenectady board- ing house ke cper, your tailor, your hatter, your shoemaker, the base- baH contribution, your in vitationsj your photographer, your dress-coat.? commencement ball\ class-day exer- cises, and-but you stand aghast, and with hands in your empty pock- ets heave a thoughtful, lonesome The Junior year, the romantic, the sigh and exclaim, '~Where, oh, poE~tical year of your course is rlra-vv- ing to a clos·e and you are soon to settle down into the matter-of-fact . . duties of Seniordom. The B\\'resh and Soph already begin to gaze at you with lounging eyes and humble countenances. You have won gold- en honors on the hill. You have gained warm friends in '' Old Dorp\ society. You have ordered a new \ cut-a way \ oR tick. and, strange to say, you are now aspiring to beaver hats and engagen1ent rings; aspira- tions far beyond your years. But the Seniors, oh, the Seniors, the where?\ Echo answers, ''where ?'~ T HE work in Constitutional Law promises to be very interest- ing and instructive this term. The Doctor, last term, contrived, while making the. \vork in Analogy and Moral Philosophy very thorough 7 to bring forward many practical ques- tions for discussion according to the princi pies laid down_ in the text books. -·By this n1ethod the work b~came not only interesting but what seemed only theoretical was, i'

THE .CONCORDlENSIS~ I 55 byits application to the incidents of every day life, proved to be erninent- l y practical. If Doctor Potter suc- ceeds as well during the present term as during the past, the Seniors will be greatly indebted to him f.or a clear understanding of that great basis of An1erican freedom-The Constitution. N ONE of us can help feeling . proud of the new building, as it stands fully completed, except the library. Prof. Hollis is now in the long roDm of the north wing·, set apart for drawing and mechanical engineering. The r·oom is well fit- ted for the purpose, affording plenty of light and space for a large class. Tb ere are 35 draughting tables made of light pine wood and constructed from a plan by Pro£ Hollis, so that the top board will not warp. The tables are furnished with drawers fDr keeping instruments, papers, &c. These, with good locks, will be .:-.a convenience long needed in this department I T is c~ommendable in all that the cremation passed off with S() lit- tle disturbance and so few broken heads. While the exercises were going on, however, around the burn ... ng pyre, the Freshmen were pelted indiscriminately with hard c1urnps ofsnow thrown by a crowd of -rouglzs from the town, and not by any of the students. These n1en should re- . . member that they have no right in- side the cDllege grounds and they should, at least, try to behave de- cently when their curiosity leads them thitheL W E have heretofore said nothing of the contribu- tion \vbich the Junior, S.ophomore and Freshman classes have n1ade for the purpose of sending Pro£ Price on a short trip of rest and recreation. Now however, that the contribution is com- pleted, we cannot refrain from son1e commendation on the above named classes for furthurin.g such a worthy purpose~ Seldom is there seen such a marked appreciation for a single professor, and it is the universal bope that this humble offering may prove a great benefit to one who is so Je- serving of esteem from the entire college. T HE F~cult~ tDok active meas\\ ures In trying to suppress the inhuman practice of \setting up'' Freshtnan rooms. Although the suffer- ers were not concerned in the disgrace ful \setting up\ which was done in south section, S. College, yet they ~ .. ,~ !! ,, '· '·. i'·· 1 .• ·~· ' 1.' ~ >- :i ilf I .. ~ .~. ·• I . ' ,._ '· ,. :.·: ·• /).:, I' ~~ . ·.-. ,, !'1 I I· jr ji; li,:.. •.. ,J:. :: . .i 'I '· I• : ~~~ ~~. i; •.. ~ , .. '! . ,I._ ~I :~ ' 'f.; II I r-~ ~~ ' Ii L·: !;.; ;~.; I~: ! f :~ i.' ~ I{ ,,,;

I ' ! a I I .. ! ' i ... 156 THE CONCORDIENSIS. were the only ones caught and so had to s,uffer the penalty which the more guilty deserved. lt is hoped that this affair and the consequences will have influence in the £uture. A T the end oflast term, the Adel- phis Society voted a sum of about $75 for new books, to be add- ed to their already well-filled library. Gilchrist, \83 Sand, ·s3 and ]lldd '84 'vere appointed as a purchasing com- mittee. These gentlemen have al- ready selected and bought the fol- by Creasy; Last Days of Pompei, by Bulwer ; Athens, Its Rise and FaUJ) by Bulwer ; Fronde's Ccesar. These books were all bought from E. H. Bender, 71 and 7 3 State street Albany, through Adams, '83, who is Mr. Bende<s agenL This eutire list costing about $5o was purchased cheaper than they could have b€en at the publishers or from second- hand book stores in Albany. Mr. Bender is an advertiser in the CoN- CORDlENSIS, and we hope ·will here- after receive more patronage from the students. The Adelphic is in a lo,ving: very flourishing condition as this in- A full set of Die ken's, 13 volumes; vestn1ent evidently shows. Green's Long History ofthe English People, 2 volumes; Motley's Dutch Republic, 3 volun1es; Goethe's \Faust;' by Bayard Taylor; Dar- win's Origin ofSpecies; McCarthy's His tory of 0 ur Own Times, 2 vol- umes; Newcom be's Popular Astron- omy; ''Weighed and Wanting,\ by George Me Doland; History of Ger- many, by Kohlrausch ; History of France, by Guizot; Six days of Crea- tion, by Taylor Lewis ; Life ofWeb- ster and Life of Calhoun, from the American Statesmen Series; J .. S. Mill's, Representative Government; \Outre Mer\ and \H yperion,\' by Longfellow ; Modern Classics ; Less- ings I..aocoon ; Holland's Foreign Re- nliniscenses ; Romola, by George Eliot; Decisive battles ofthe World, T HE Garnet will be out before the next issue of our paper The Editors have been working hard and hope for great snccess. The cover will be an imitation of leather and consequently more substantial than usuaL N OW that the year is drawing to a close, we would advise the different classes, to be looking out their Editors for next year. We have done all in o~r power to im- prove the paper during the last four months, but are fully assured that there is yet large room for improve- ment. Union College, with one-

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 157 hundred and seventy-five students, can send out a much better paper than at present. By all means if you would wish your publication to he a fair representative of 0 ld U n- ' ion's literary ability, do not let class politics prevent you from electing the men who by rights should be- 1ong on the paper ; men who have aided it this year by their contribu- tions. Let your editorial board or- ganize before the end of the year, '\vork among the Alumni at Com- mencement, secure their subscrip- tions, and ~by so doing assure greater success. AN APRIL SHOWER. Lo! clouds gather dark before us; Is it rain or snow? Is it hail? For could one ever tell, before earthward it fell, What an April cloud brought to our vale? 'Tis rain, yes, I see it falling, In arrowy sheets on the hill ; A.s the clouds hurry on, save the murmur above, Of the yet distant rain, all is still. The wind in the wood is rising; For the tree tops sway to and fro, A.nd the crows turn their helms for yon har- bor of elms, Dropping sail from the on-coming blow. Oh winds, full of heavenly sweetness! Grateful rains, fresh-wrought in the skies! With your force which ne'er fails, pierce ye deep in our dales, Where the slow budding wildflower lies! 'Tis past, and the sun is shining Through the rain-drops, flashing array; And twinkling with gems, set on e1nerald stems. All the fields and the woodlands are gay. ZOR, '83. JIMJAMS JI1VI; THE BOSS BOY OF BOVINE BURROW. A THRILLING TALE OF RURAL LIFE. BY JESSE JAMES HOWLS, JR. (Concluded). CHAP. IV. THE BOSS BOY ON HIS MUSCLE. Like wild-fire the news spread and the horror, which the deed created ' was greatly augmented by the report that Jimjams ]i1n, the pride of Bo- vine Burrow, was the suspected mur- derer. The circumstances connected with the n1urder were most damaging to our hero. An hour before the Squire was found lifeless \vith a carrot rude- ly jammed down · his throat, the neighbors had heard a bitter alterca- tion between him and ]imjan1s, and that, together with the knowledge that the old man stood between the two lovers, ever marrying, seemed to fasten with relentless grip the guilt upon the Boss Boy. 'Thus we see that the coil of circumstantial evi- dence was weaving itself around our hero's manly 1orm. Flight was pos- sible, but he scorned the idea, as any other innocent man would have done. ·~ Aramantha was horror-stricken when she learned that her lover was suspected of the hideous crime. She would have at once flown to his arms, I. ( ., .. .I ,~ I\' 1,,. ,. ,.1,

' I' I , . 158 THE CONCORDIENSIS. but duty called her to the sides of her inanimate advpt~d father. Did she shed tears ? Yes she shed a number, but they ·were for him who had talzen by storm her little heart. She firmly believed that Jimjams ·was as innocent as a little pet lamb with a blue ribbon and brass bell thrown in. All Bovine Burrow hated to couple the name of J imjams Jim with that of murderer, but \vhat else was there left for them to do? In- nocent he might be, but appearances were against him. As for our hero he was not in the least alarmed by his situatiorr and he rose from his breakfast at th P tavern the next n1orning, picking his teeth with as n1uch complacency as if nothing of unusual importance with regard to his interests had happened. The next 1nove in the order of things was to place him under arrest, but tl1is would call for an enormous outlay of muscle and was an under- taking that the peace-loving citizens of Bovine Burrow did not relish. Yet every law-abiding man among them recognized that duty must be done, irrespective of the costs. So, the next morning, a small-sized army of loafers and aspirants for pugilistic fame, moved upon him in solid phal- anx as he stood outside the entrance of the tavern. Our hero saw them and chuckling over the sport in view he quickly tossed off his coat and made ready for the fun. On came the crowd, among the foremost of which was the foul Porkandheans . with a triumphant smirk upon his . fiendish visage. Nearer and nearer they came and then a rush was made. Oh, what a direful scene was that l Blood almost runs from my pen w.hen I would fain describe the carnage which ensued. Suffice to say that Jimjams Jim was at last captured and bound with iron ; but at what a sacrifice! Scores \vere maimed for life by the blows of those sledge,hammers. Porkandbeans had been the first to bite th·e dust, with a broken jaw. Smashed noses and black eyes were the fashion in Bovine Burrow for many days to con1e. Never; on any forn1er occasion, had the great truth been more fully realized that Jimjams Jim was indeed the Boss Boy of Bovine Burrow. CHAP. V. THE BOSS BOY'S CLOSE CALL. Our hero was safely lodged behind the protecting bars of the jail. Prep- arations for the trial were being pushed strenuously on. During this time Aramantha visited her lover daily, and although she was not ad- mitted to his cell, still the bars were sufficiently wide apart to permit their sweet salutations. Jirnj ams Jim was ever .hopeful and swore that he was

THE CONCORDIENSIS. I 59 not born to die by an.y rope process. (J ndoubtedly he could have easily made his escape, by tearing open the bars or knocking down the walls of his ceil, bt1t he felt that to do this, after so 1nuch pains had been taken to place him in recently, would be an act both low and mean. His con- finem.ent 3:t length began to be ex- treme} y odious, particularly as the vile Porkandbeans was in the habit of appearing before his grated door and taunting him in most exasperating accents. This always threw our hero into a terrible rage and he longed to clutch the vocal appendage of the villain Porkandbeans . • The day for the trial at length ar- rived. Jimjams Jim's lawyer was a very able n1an and his last appeal brought everyone in that vast audi- ence to tears, but as his client had not enough lucre to bribe the jury, l\1ost heroes would have been ter~ rified to find that their appointed doom was approaching, but J imjams was no ordinary hero, and conse- quently he never gave a thought to the jeopardy which surrounded him. He had firn1 hopes that his innocence would be declared in ample time to save him and he laughed and jested with an easy nonchalance that was paralyzing to behold. Unbeknown to anyone the lovely and devoted Aramantha had engaged Bloodhound Bub, the boy detective of Broad street, to seek, if possible, some clue to the true rnurderer of Squire Sourgrapes. The day of ex- ecution drew near and the Boy De- tective worked like a coal-heaver to throw some light upon the awful tnystery. A first-class scaffold had been built and fifty yards of the best quality of hanging rope ordered on the case went against him and our from New York. Pork::tndbeans sent hero was convicted and sentenced to in a request that he be allowed to be hung by the neck until dead, on touch .off the spring which would the 25th of July. The remaining · send our hero to eternity. It was days which had been allotted him for willingly granted for the sheriff was life Aramantha spent by his side, having overcome the scraples of the sheriff against admitting visitors to the cells. Jimjams' friends did all in their power to make his last days pleasant and supplied him with tracts and hymn books enough for a dozen Sun- day schools. a humane man, and as this was his first experience in the hanging line he did not fancy the job. \His last night on earth,\ as the Budget put it, was passed in tranquil sleep by our hero, for a presentiment had all along whispered that he had many more years yet to live. As soon as daylight dawned the grief-stricken '!' !\f . I ·'1 .. :; :.:_1' ,' i q .:' ·\ .I ~ . ~:

I ',I ' ,. r6o THE CONCORDIENSIS. Aramantha sought him, and in the protecting shelter of his arms, gave way to a violent fit of hysterics. In vain he told her to \brace up,\ her wild sorrow only grew the wilder. When breakfast time came, he par- took bountifully of free lunch and cider, and then with the head of his darling pillowed on his breast, waited patiently for the fatal hour. .i\.t 10 o'clock the officers appeared who were to lead him to the scaffold. Aramantha now went almost crazy, she raved and tore like one possessed. Sad indeed \vas that parting. The hardened officers were forced to use their coat-sleeves; our hero, how- ever, remained unmoved. What a wonderful man he was! The mighty throng gave room, as they issued from the jail-door, to pennit their passage to the scaffold. With firm demeanor Jimjams stepped upon it. The noose was adjusted and the black cap drawn. Porkandbeans, with gloating looks, awaited the signal. The sheriff raised his hand to make it ! ! ! Why did not an innocent man die an ignominous death? Why? Because at the very moment when the villain, Porkandbeans, was about to triu:nph, Bloodhound Bub dashed upon the scene with a paper in his hand, crying, \release him, he is in- nocent, and here's the proof.\ T'hen fro1n that assembled cro\vd there went up one joyous shout, \Hurrah for the Boss Boy.!!'' Upon the scaf- fold leaped the Boy Detective, and,. pointing to the trembling Porkand- beans, yelled, ''there's the cuss that killed the Squire, secure h·im.\ * * * *· Jimjams Jim was free t 1 CHAP. VI. THE BOSS BOY ONCE MORE THE BOSS. Yes, the true murderer of Squire Sourgrapes had at last been discov- ered, and people shuddered when they thought 1)-ow closely J imjams had escaped paying the penalty of another's crime. The diligent Boy Detective had on that very morning searched the clothes of the murdered .. man and in the back pocket of the overalls which the Squire had on at the time of his \taking off\ he found a document bearing on it this word, CONFESSION! Hastily opening it he read the following startling truth : \ Marmaduke Porkandbeans z\s the 1nurdcre_r of me, Squire Sour- grapes.\ Fearful that he would be too late to render assistance to our hero, he sped like the wind to the place of ex~cution, and reached there just in the nick of time as vve have seen. The joy of Aramantha, at her lover ·s deliverance was something sublime. With beauteous grace she led hin1 to the Squire's house, which with all his other prosperity, includ- ing a handsome life insurance, was

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 161 now hers, and there in the front par- lor they threw thernselves into ea~h other's arms and wept tears of hap- piness. The cup of joy, in which both now swam, was filled to the brim. That evening they were mar-. ried. * * * * * * ~· * * Jimjams Jims and his beautiful wife occupied reserved seats at the execution of the vile Marmaduke Porkandbeans. · THE END~ THE FIDDLE AND THE BOW. Johnny had a fiddle, And his sister had a beau Who had scraped the girl's acquaintanc::! In a flat on Baxter row. But Johnny swapped his fiddle For a drum with cousin Dick; And strange enough his sister's beau Turned out to be a stick. And when he sat upon a pin, And John stood laughing near, The stick flew up and warmly beat The drum-of Johnny's ear. · When Johnny yelled his father catne, (A portly old galoot) And gave the beau a ·warm em brace, And treated him to boot. The old man wore a number nine, The young man stood no show;- Our song is done and so ''hang up The fiddle aJtd ike beau.\ Q; E. D. A BAD BOY'S DIARY. There is one thing that I never could understand, and that is, why every one calls me a bad boy. N O\V to show you \V hat an inpocent boy I am, I will just tell you some of the things that I have done which have gotten me this name. Last year, when I caine back to college, l found all the boys getting bags full of salt. Now I did not know ·what they intended to do, but I was not going to be behind, so I bol1ght about a peck of salt and some bags and, like all the rest, took them round to chapel. As it happened IJ and several others got late, so -vvaited outside to see the Freshmen and speak to them. One of them came ' out of the door and immediately all the fellows flung their bags of salt at him and I,. thinking that it was a 1n£ck, flung several bags too, but was decidedly surprised to see a Prof. emerge from the crowd of Freshmen covered with salt and he came right up to me and said that I must come round to see him the next morning. I was rather surprised at his kind in- vitation for \ve did not seem to get ' on well together, but-he explained matters to me! We don't get on well together now! I made up my mind to studv hard after this, but one night some of the bDys came 'round to see me and said that they were going to dig up, the stone-walk and wan ted me to g? too. Well, I thought Prex would like this for I heard that he intended to put down a new walk, and this would t I l'i

I'• ·' ; i ' l ,, I ;' '' l' l ) ~~ 1:- 1; , 'l· i .,: I \ : p ', •• l' ' I. I: . ill' THE CONCORDIENSIS. save the Colonel the trouble of dig- ging the old s.tones up, so I \vent. 1\ few days after I received a let- ter, in a.yellow envelope, telling me that my work did not lie in the right direction. Now I have never been able to understand \vhat it meant. One night son1e of the boys Hung a stove. down the stairs and I moved it so that it w.ould lie right across the passage outside my door, for I thougbt that would be the safest place to keep it. Several fellows can1 e up the stairs and because they fell over it they came in· my room and accus.ed me of breaking their shins. Now every one can see that they broke their own shins, and that I had nothing to do with 1 t. One day I ioun.d that the pump would not work easily, so I thought if I greased it that it would work ver)' nicely. I looked around for son1e thing to grease it with and I espied n1 y kerosene can, so I took it down and poured some down the pun1p and found that it made the putnp work splendidly. I thought that all the boys would thank me, but they didn't and that shows how ungrateful some people can be. It has always been that way vvith me, for, ever since I can remen1ber, a people have never appreciated n1y kindness. I an1 very fond of exercise and as our roon1s arc so small I cannot ex- ercise conveniently in them and frequently have to go into the sec- tion to get the required amount of freedom. I have only one large dumb bell, so the idea struck me that if I conld tie a rope on to this and let it down the stairs, in pulling the dumb bell up, I would have a nice thing to exercise n1y muscles on. I tried it one night and it suc- ceeded splendidly t I went back into my room and was quietly reading when ''Billy\ catne up and told me that l was too noisy to stay in his section and that I must leave. Now I think this was very unjust in him, for ~ am merely an innocent, un- sophisticated· boy and I think him very mean to call me naughty and bad. I have told you all this so as to show you how unsuspecting I am 8..nd how much I am abused,. and I leave it to you to judge whether I ought to be called a bad boy or noL ~- ·----- -- -~--- ----· ----------------- A WOM.i\.N'S FOLLY~ BY COLLY WILKINS. Not more than fifty years ago and in one of our e£lstern colleges, it hap- pened that three young men, whom,. for convenience, -vve shall designate as Flip, Snip and Pip determined that they could find no more pleas- ant pastime than to spend an after-

THE CONCORDI.EN.SIS. noon with their lady friends in tar- get practicing. A better day could not have been desired than the one selected. The spring sun shone brightly from a cloudless sky; birds twittered as they hopped from bough to bough and all nature seemed to laugh in harmony. As they started out bright and merry as May, little did they think that a dreadful trage- dy was about to take place, a tragedy that would rnar the happiness of their young lives, for the rest of the week. This was on Saturday. Laughing and singing in their glee they soon reached the ·woods ·which \Vas soon to be the scene of the fall of one man's nearest and dearest friend; one that had stood by him many a month and perhaps years. After walking around a short time they began banging away at the trees to the great discomforture of the pretty little birds. \See I hit my n1ark,\ says Flip who been taking a long and deter- mined aim, \which one did you shoot at?\ asked Snip a little bit in doubt. \That one,\ said Flip, point- ing towards the largest tree he could see ·within thirty feet of him. Snip after searching for some time, sud- denly laughed and said, \Here Flip here's where your bullet hit,\ at the same tin1e showing a mark on a very small tree about two yards from the former one. \Yes thats the one I shot at,\ said Flip not at all disturb- ed; while the young ladies gazed in wonder that he could hit so small a tree at so great a distance. And now approaches the scene of the tragedy. One of the young la- dies, after seeing :Flip's wonderful shot, con-fidently said, that she could do the same. She raised the gun to fire, Snip was still examining the tree. She did not see hirn. Her eyes ·were closed. Great heavens \rill she shoot! Alas, she did. The trigger was pressed 1nd the murder- ous gun poured forth its deadly con- tents and he was struck, shot through the h-hat. Snip? why no, not Snip, Snip was all safe enough. Another 1nan' s hat was struck, who \Vas \valk- ing the road beyong the trees. Oh, what have I dune! What have I done! I've killed a man,\ exclain1ed the frightened young lady. ''No,\ said Snip who had passed the man on his way back, ''No, you've only killed his hat.\ \Alas ! and will they hang tne for it?'' \Of that I can not tell. Of such things I am ignorant. Pip who is better versed in law, can tell the consequences.\ \I'm afraid they will,\ said Pip thus appealed to, \'Tis against the law to thus shoot hats from off men's heads.\ \Away said Flip, \we must get out of this ; the cops ere long vvill be down upon us and w·e will be taken. Hie you to your several homes and

THE CONCORDIENSIS. be sure to keep this 1nu11z. You two may see the ladies home, but as for n1e, I am for N .. C. S. S., and ifever again I atn caught at target practice with young ladies, may some one kindly string me up to the nearest tree and leave me there to die.\ He starts out and soon disappears in the dim distance. The rest take a n1ore roundabout way and stealthi- ly creep homeward. They failed to appear in the next scene, but sorne said' that Flip, Snip. and Pip, had to buy the injured party a ne\v hat. JOHN HOWARD PAYNE. When a man has made his mark in the literary world, and especially when his honor~d name is being echoed by the press, it is always in- teresting to college men to know some thing of such an one's student life. Among the many distinguished sons of Old Union,. there is none whose nan1e is dearer to us than the author of \Hon1c Sweet Home.\ Now that the shores of Tunis have yielded up the renrains of our \sweet singer\ and A me rica's soi! is to enfold his ashes, we of Old Union join with heartfelt pleasure in giving due hon- or to his memory. We have made inquiry among some of the older Professors of the coil ege, and frorn then1 and other sources we gleaned the following items : Mr. Gabriel Harri.son, Payne's bi- ographer says that the poet was born in New York city, in a small two story house, then 33 Pearl street. William Payne his . father, was a school teacher and taught elocution to the lad \vho was the sixth of nine children. Payne took his name of John Howard from his maternal grandfather, Dr. John Howard. The boy early established the l'hespian Mirror, a boyish ,paper, which he edited, and by his talents attracted · the attention of G. Brockden Brown the novelist. This gentleman sent hin1 to Dr Nott to be educated at U- nion College. Dr. N ott used to say that Payne was a handso1ne boy, but of a roving disposition and not a good student. He entered the class of 1812, and was here not two years. He established a college paper, The Past-i1ne, ~nd is said to have compos- ed a Fourth of July ode which was sung by the students at a celebration. His father, however was unfortunate in business, and Payne having left college, soon made his debut at the Park Theatre, New York, in the part of Young Norval in the tragedy of \Douglas or the Noble Shepherd.~., At this time, Feb. 24th, 1809, he was nearly eighteen years of age .. Payne's career, as an actor was shorL In 1 812 he w:en t to England, and as an actor had poor success. It is not well known when he wrote \Home

TI-IE CONCORDIENSIS. Sweet Home,\ but the song was first brought before the public in 1823 in Ul English opera called, 'tClari, or the Maid of Milan.\ The music of the opera was composed by Sir Henry Rowley Bishop, whose widow, Madame Anna Bishop is stillli ving in New York. The music was adopted by Sir Henry from an Ital- ian melody, a \Sicilian air/, as he called it. The song thus introduced to the world took every one by storm and its popularity rapidly increased. The Author, himself without a home heard his song where ever he went. He soon became a correspondent of Coleridge and Lamb. He came to the United States in 1832, and on August 23d, 1842, was appointed Consul at Tunis by President Tyler. Having filled this post well from I 842 to r 845, he was reappointed in I 85 I by Daniel Webster's influence. He remained until Aprilgth, 1852, when he died at the Consulate. Mr. Cor- coran's resolution to bring Payne's remains to this country was formed last year at the reception given in Washington to the Jeannette survi- vors. When the band played, ''Ho1ne Sweet Home/' Mr. Corcoran was n1uch affected by thinking that the author of this soul stirring melo- dy \vas then n1ing ling with the dust of a foreign land and he imn1ediately determined that the body should be removed. Strange is it that Gold- smith and Payne, neither of whom ever knew the happiness of the fam- ily circle, could have written so of its joys. Our hearts swell with en1otion when \Ve read the poetry of the one and the song of the other. To those of us now in . our college life who have gone out from ''Home\ to mingle, \in the world's broad field of battle, in the bivouac of life,\ such lines have a sweeter, grander signi ... ficance than ever.-EDITOR. Mr. Simplesweet, finding that spring is here at last, thinks it no n1ore than fitting that his poetic genius should pay a tribute to that most charming of season. J. J. H .. , jR. \Yes spring has indeed come,\ said Mr. Gustavus Simplesweet to himself the other evening, as he lit a fragrant cigar aud proceeded to re- pose himself in a comfortable arm- chair before his bright grate-fire, \and yet Brown threatened to chuck me out of his office window to-day when I made that same observation. To be sure the thermometer is some- where below zero, but what differ- ence does that make. Spring is spring, thermometer or no thermo~ meter, at least the almanac. tells us so, and all that we, poor earth-worms have got to do now is to be a little

r65 THE CONCORDIENSIS. patient and \vai t for the weather to n1oderate, and before we know it we shall be going about in our shirt- sleeves. There is a son1etbing in- expressibly lovely about spring that has always deeply affected n1e. The returning birds, the balmy sk,ies, the soft breezes, ail unite in making tne a happier, better man. I always feel fresh as a daisy when spring comes * * * Miss Highstepper says I look that way all the time. Oh, dear! that girl is so complimentary that she is almost overpowering. .A .. fello·w, you know, can stand a complin1ent now and then, but to have them perfectly showered upon him is quite another thing, for he is deucedly put out to find words for reply. Hovv girls do love compli- ments! I believe they could live on them. Now there is 1ny darling Clarissa, a truer, more affectionate girl never drew the breath of life, aud yet a compliment will almost set her wild with ecstacy. * -1<· -!!- * I wonder how the dear old girl is getting along up there at Vassar? She said in her last letter that she wished I would write her a little son- net on spring,· as all tl1e other girls were ~:~ing to get their fellows to do so. Well, so I will, and as I haven't got anything of great importance on hand for to-night, I will write the sonnet at once and have it over with. Now to biz. * * * * Let me see, the first 1ine must have a slight tribute to spring by way of an open- ing, then if I can introduce a little sentiment on the soft breezes and the birds in their returning flight in the second and third lines, and a delicate touch of love in the la3t lines that would not be bad for the first verse. Th\\re's nothing like having lots of n1.aterial to work with, you know. * Poet let 1 oose thy wings and soar ! '' 0 Spring, thou lovliest time of year \Vhen S1)ft the breezes blow, And birds frc->m Soulh crm1e \Vay up here 1 'o watclt our gard·~ns grow, 0, then it is we yearn to hear Sweent accets from our loved ones dear.\ Good enough, old boy, no\v that's poetry, that is. A verse worthy of a Longfellow, by Jove. Yes, that was done in a very masterly manner, especially about the birds, breezes, and the gardens It is well to have variety in the-first verse and not be harping continually on one thing. N O\V some fellows would have gone right on and talked about spring, personified it and taken all sorts of liberties with it; but that is no way to start in on a poem; you must have variety in order to put your reader in good humor and prepare the way for what is to follow. * * * That fourth line was a masterly stroke, im- plying a little of domestic life. What

THE CONCORDIENSIS. indeed could be more suggestive of ho·me-lqve than the garden? And, moreover~ it prepares the reader for .. the tender senti1nent in the last two lines. Yet from simply a poetic point of vi~w the verse is something fine and 1 sincerely trust that Clarissa \Vill appreciate its beauty, hidden or otherwise, whichever \vay its strikes her. Upon reading the verse over again, however, there is one feature which seems a little unfinished, as it were, and that is the third line. \Come way up here\ is good and I am perfectly justified in using such an expression, as poetical license at- fords the poet unlimited liberties, but a p~et of my ability does not need to depend upon it so much as Milton and Shakespeare did, so if I can substitute a little different sen- timent, something that will sound better, and still keep the first and two last lines, I think the verse ·will run smoother. How will this do? \ 0 Spring, thou lovlicst time of year, When girls wear high their dresses neat, The boys, with eager looks do peer, To see them cross the mnddy street; 0 then it is we yearn to hear Sweet accents from our loved ones dear.\ Yes, this last is a decided improve- Inent. 1\he sentilnent is 110t, per- haps, quite so dreamy as that of the first, but it is more cleverly executed. The devotion shown by the sterner sex te the gentler in their anxiety to see if they pass safely across the ''muddy. street\ is finely d~awn, and it for·ms a· more vivid picture than the corresponding three lines in the first ve:rs3 * * No-Yes, * ·x~ -x~ No. The second verse cer- tainly has its points, but it lacks po- etical feeling; the fancy is not brought to play enough. Suppose I let 1ny imagination soar in pastoral realms. There is an in- toxicating freshness about pastoral poetry- that goes straight to the heart. For :instance. if I could introduce into a. country scene, a milk 1naid with an her coy playfulness and a small-sized halo of rural simplicity hovering around her, the result, seems to me, \vould be more taking, especially to Clarissa, who p~rfectly adores the country and who milked a co·w twice a day all last sumn1er. Something in this style, I think, would be the ticket. 0 Spring, thou lovliest time of year vVhen. the milkmaid hies her to the med (mead) To try to rn.ilk the cross heifeer (heifer) And gets k:cked on her little head, 0 the11 it is, we yearn to hear Sweet accents from our lJved ones dear. Ah,. Gusty, old boy. what a head you have ! What could be finer or rnore touching than this last? That fourtb line is a nice little ruse to in- voke tne syn1pathies of the reader. It presents indeed a sad picture, a

r68 THE CONCORDIENSIS. poor milkn1aid with bleeding head stretched all but lifeless on the green grass, while the \cross hcifeer\ is seen, with tail in air, skipping off in· the distance. Without question this last verse shows tnore genius than the others do, and I don't think it could be bettered in any way, so we'll JUSt call that the first verse and proceed. Oh dear ! this poetry writing is awful hard work * * * I wonder what time it is * * * twelve o'clock, I declare ; time to take my brandy and soda, and seek my sleep- ing chamber, so I'll just p·ut this verse aside and finish the rest to- morrow. Good night. -How is your best girl ? -A class in Botany this term. -Did you enjoy the vacation? -Are you going to buy a beaver? -The first good weather of the season. -The campus dry enotrgh for ball pr:tctice. -Juniors disappointed in not hav- ing Dr. Coppee in the chapel. -Addison, '86, has a light case of Scarlet Fever. His father is with hin1. -Will the Freshman bring out the foot-hall again ? -Prof. Staley and Thf r. _ Anabel are taking Prof. Price's classes. -Judson, '86, and Frank Parsons, '84 have left college. -Every man out of his humor- Along about house-cleaning time. -Through one administration- The eight-to-seven confab. · -· Very hard cash -All the cash we have ever seen has been Yery hard -to get hold of. Good natt1red man-The fellow who smiles when you sit down on his stiff hat. -Soph P. says that when Chau- cer was on his 1talian Journey* he met the poet Plutarch. -Prof. Staley has a good sized class in surveying this term, made up principally from the Seniors. -Major McMurray is to hold dai- ly receptions for the two lower classes during this term. ·-James He.rnphill has obtained a position at Louisville, Kentucky, in the engineering line. -Adriance '83, is to be absent ~bout two months engaged in teach- Ing. -Prof. Webster devoted about a week to lectures on physio ogy before commencing zoology. -The final reception given by Prof. Graves to his dancing class was well attended by studj:nts who re- port the finest time of the season.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. Who stood to mock me when I fell, · And set up such a fiendish yell Oh \Take· a seat\ and Shoot the Swell?\- The Gamin. . ~ Wright, '83, has secured a posi- tion on the engineering corps of the New York City Elevated Railway. -The saying \Those who dance must pay the fiddler\ is expressed by a student as follows: \Those who would indulge in the terpsichorean recreation, n1 ust feel under obliga- tions to renumerate the irritation of feline intestines.\ -According to a Freshman black- berries are white \Vhen they are green. This is color-blindness. -Dr. Coppee is back again this term, and \vill have his usual work with the Juniors and Seniors. -There is_ a general dis~ppoint­ ment among those who enjoy college sports at the non appearance of a 'Varsity nine, The classes are to conduct a serious of games for a prize, as usual but after such a brilliant record, class games will fail to awaken n1uch interest. -What kind of fruit would you th1nk of were vou to see a freshman riding a mule? A pair. -De Puy, C. E. '83, who has a fine position near Greensboro, N. C. left Union at the end of last term. Success to all of \Old Union's\ sons. lfJ -It is rumored that the present Freshman class out-witted their bloody enemies, the Sophs. at their cremation, by well devised schemes, conducted by their secret committee and carried out by the class. The maiden effort of the So phs, to pre- vent the beaver parade was quickly overcon1e by the activity of the Freshmen. -Prof. Hollis' new room is about 50 feet long. It is furnished with new tables and chairs upon which the Prnf. hopes that no one will try the edge of his knife. --During last term a number of students attended the revivals con- ducted in the Second Reformed church, by Mr. and Mrs. Wilson. -Addison, '83 who was sick last term with a light attack of scarlet fever. and who was compelled to re .. main in the sick roon1 so long on that account, left for his home dur- ing the holidays. BOUND TO 'fAKE THE PRIZE. The ~enior he seized his brand new bromn, And set about to sweep the room. For with dirt he was sore disgusted; And his chum, who never was known to shirk Btu always would do his share of work. · Just got right up and dusted. -Henry George visited the col- lege during the first part of the tern1. He came through invitation of Frank- lin, '84. Mr George gave a short and forcible lecture in the Chapel on \Incentives to the study of Polit- ical Economy .. , -Dr. Potter spent the holiday in Washington, Philadelphia and New York. - -rfhose who attended the soc ia- ble given by Mr. McEncroe, '84, re- port a very pleasant evening. -On the first day of this term the Freshmen had their customary pa- rade with beavers and canes. While in front of the Classical Institute they were attacked by the Sophs and some beavers lost their beauty. A few of the Freshmen were hit with

IJO THE CONCORDIENSIS. l::tst year's eg-gs, but for all that the parade was a success. -Prof. Webster, who visited the Princeton Theological Seminary during the holidays, speaks very fa- vorably of the Union boys who are studying there. -A young man ,received a lead pencil of the brand '' Semper Idem- soft.\ He does not know yet whether it referred to him or the pencil. -\I lay me down in piet;e to sleep\ is what the maidens of uncertain age singt as they take off their back, false teeth, &c. -Prof in Pnys.iolo,gy-''\ Mr. K. is it absolutely necessary to drink water ? '' Junior K.-'~ No, not absolutely, ·,ve may drink it adulterated.\ Pro- fessor smiles and K. hastily adds \as c:offee,. for instance.\' -Pr,()f. to Freshman.-\ Mr.-- define the difference between excite and incite.~~ . Fresh man.- .• , Excite is to get ner- vous or flustrated ; incite-when a man comes around the corner,. he is in sight.~\ -Freshman translated \Tutius '' as Professor, \Because said he, \lt is 1nore than 'tute.' ,., -No.w the weary husband goes around with a spring-has-come-and- the-stove-must-be-n1oved look on his face that awakens the pity of alL -Neagle, '84~ was laid up during the vacation with a sprained ankle received while practicing in the gym- . nas1urn .. -During the ceremonies of the cremation~ the ''Townies \ threw large pieces of ice at the -Freshn1en and ~orne were severely cut. The Townies should have been sent from the grounds or rather :not allowed to enter at all. We hope> henceforth, in such a matter, they will be kept from the grounds altogether. -The members of the Christian Union of Union College have re- solved to disorga\nize and to adopt the constitution of the Young Men's Christian Association of Colleges. The officers of the U ~C. Y. M. C. A. elected last term are as follows: Cantine,. President; Hutchinson\ Vice-President; Griswold,. Secre- tary; Vaughn, Treasurer. -1'he follovving are the commit- , tees appointed by President Cantine for the commencement exercises: CARD COMMIT 'TEE, Van Ees,. Gilbert, Bolton, McElwain, Nash. MUSIC, McClellan, Wood, Morgan. PICTURES:1 McCauley, Gilchrist, Adriance. BALL, Ray, Hamlin, Hook. RECEPTION, Sherwood, Countermine, Harding .. -Pro£ in English Examination- \ \Vhy were the ancient inhabitants of South ern Briton rnore civilized than those cf North ern Briton, Mr .. T ? ~, T '' Because they lived in a more civilized country ; no, that isn't it, because their climate was warmer .. '' ~ . -The needs of the Mechanical Engineering Department have been recognized and the large r~on: at the north end of the new bt11ld1ng has been fitted up and provided with drawing tables, to be used by Prof ..

THE CONCORDIENSIS. Hollis in conducting his recitations. The large windows and the useful tables n1ake the room all that could be desired and will afford an oppor- tunity to give the students practical work in their recitation. -Pro£-\ Who led the Greeks at the battle of Salan1is? '' Student-\ Achilles.\ -A So ph was late I y heard t() ask what day Easter Friday would come on. -A Fresh asserte-d in a debating society hall that Sarah Bernhard was a great singer. -G stated in examination room that the Norman French was comp9unded of the Anglo-Saxon and American Languages. -Terrence's plays are to be read by the Sophomores this term in place of Cicero ~s Tusculan Disputa- tions which heretofore have been third term's work. Under the old schedule none of the Latin dram- atists were in the course and the change is an improvement. -At the regular meeting of the Adelphic Society, March 24th, Gov- ernor Cleveland was ele.cted an hon- orary member. Beekman, '84 and Errelston, '8 5, were appointed com- mittee to inform him of his election. -A canoe clnb has been formed by about eight students of the col- lege, As soon as the ice on the river melts and the days get warm canoes will probably he seen on the river every day. -The Juniors aspire to silk hats this term, and one ·of the handsome men in the class led off by donning his beaver during the holidays. -The foHowing are the third term elections of the Philomath.ean Socie- ty: Valedictorian, Daniel D. Addison, '83. President and Respondent, R. B. McCown, '84. Treasurer, Putnan1 Cady, ·g 5 .. Librarian,. Wallace Fo{)te, '85. Secretary, Henry De Witt Gris- wold, '8 5. Curator> Thomas Hurrnans Foote, ,86. CARD COM MITT:EE: James Johannes Kemp, '84. George Franklin Allison, '84. Hardy Hardison Phelps~ '85. -The .joint-debate bet\veen the Adelphic and Philomathean SDcie-· ties took place Friday evening, the I 6th of March. The c11ape1 was filled with an interested audience of students and their friends from the city. The Judges were President Potter, Prof. Price and Judge Eeat- tie. The q ue~stion, \ Resolved that a Lin1ited Monarchy is the Best Forn1 of Government for France,\ was debated on the affirmative by the r'\..delphic speakers, Messrs. Hut- chinson, '84, Greene, '84 and N ea- gle, '84, and on the negative the Philomathean was defended by 1\tlessrs. Allison, '84, Cady, '85 and Phelps, '85. The speeches were very good on both sides, showing careful study. The Judges decided in favor of the negative. This is the fifth joint-debate which has taken place between the two literary socie- ties during the last three years, and as this is the first which the Philo- mathean has won, it may- be con- gratulated on its success, and those who represented it deserve the greater honor in being able to defeat so worthy a rival as. the Adelphic has proved in the past. -On. one of the pleasant days,

THE CONCORDIENSIS. during holiday, several students ·with their lady friends were out having a target practice in the college grove. A painter from the city was passing the main road at the time and sud- denly became aware that a random shot had \ carvied its way\ through the top of his hat. Glad to escape so narrowly from the shot of the ~'amateur rifle corps\ said painter made his way into the city and was about to wreak vengeance on ''lovers of spring-time amusement,\ but hap- pily compromised with the interested parties on the purchase of a new hat. Rural sp0rts are very delightful, but care should be shown in the selec- tion of ranges. We congratulate our friends for escaping so easily from \vhat might have b~en a serious affair. CREMATIO NEWCOMBIS. On the night of March 27th, about midnight, a ghostly array of figures might ltave been seen issuing from the portals of Nor 4.· This array proceeded directly back of the Col- lege to ''Lover's Lane,\ marching to the air of Newcomb's Funeral March. This was played by an in- experienced Freshman on a solitary rattling snare drun1, whose sound alone broke the stillness of the air that was soon to resound with ghost- recalling shouts and yells. When they had crept over the· fence, out of the shadow of darkness into the street, we discovered that they were the Freshn1en clad in 'John China- 1ttan summer costume, plus \vhite mask and cap. Having proceeded to the residence of Judge Landon, they soon brought forth coffin, battle- axes, torches and transparencies. The first transparency was decorated in front with a representation of a cemetery, showing the totnbs of the Algebras of the three preceeding generations. Behind were some prob- lems which \Ve did not attempt to solve. On the second was a scene of a Freshman walking o'er the ver-- dant grass while his eye scans the page~ of a took (we could not tell whether it was Mother Goose or a pony). Behind was the old old :story, \A horse, a horse, my king- dom for a horse. ) At Judge Lan- don's residence the procession \Vas n1et by a detachment of the Conti- nental Drutn Corps and also a detach- ment of the Sclttnectady J>otz\ce. From this place they proceeded down Union until they had crossed the c3;nal bridge where the Sophs made an unsuccessful attempt to encircle the Fresh in a long rope. The march \Vas continued down Union to Church, down Washington avenue, up State to White street. Then through \Vhite and Barrett streets to Union where the horse and wagon with the wood and tar was in waiting. The procession then moved on to the Blue Gate which was \:Vired, but en- tering by the upper gate they were soon at the pyre. 'The obsequies were as follows : Carmen Lugu bri. . . . . . ... J->toritores Poema ..................... Poet a Consolatio Ploratoribus ..... ~acerdos Oratio ............ · ........ Orator Cant us ... r • • • • ••••••••••• Chorus Lzghting of the Pyre by the JYrz'est. These ceremonies were carried on amid a worse-than-Wiggins' storm of snow and ice and the shouting and blowing of horns. M.eanwhile New- comb had been reduced to ashes and with one last, sad, lingering look the mourners proceeded to their roomsr 1'he committee deserve praise for the manner in which the exercises ' ' were conducted. Every thing was arranged with precision and secrecy; in fact the Freshmen themselves did not know the plans until they started to march. The names of the com- mittee are as follows : G. S. Dorwin, J. M·. Mosher, E. C. Courtright, H .. S. Judson, C. J. Perkins.

'\, . I',. ' . I/2 THE CONCORDI}-:NSIS. ~~-~---- ----·------------- during holiday, several students with th~ir lady friends \Ver~ out having a target practice in the college grove. A painter fro1n the city was passing the n1ain road at the time and sud- denly became a\vare that a randon1 shot had \carvied its \vay \ through the top uf his hat. Glad to escape so narro\vly from the shot of the q.' amateur rifle corps\ said painter n1ade his way into the city and \vas about to wreak vengeance on \lovers of spring-time an1usen1ent,\ but hap- pily con1promised with the interested pa_rties on the purchase of a new hat. Rural sp0rts are very delightful, but care should be shown in the selec- tion of rtlngcs. We congratulate our friends fur escaping so easily from what n1ight have been a serious affair. ()n the night of March 27th, about n1iclnight, a ghostly array of figures mig-ht bave been seen issuing from the portals of No. 4. This array proceeded directly back of the Col- lc-crc to '' Lover's Lane \ marching b ' to the air of N evvcomb's Funeral ~'larch. 1'his was played by an in- experienced Freshman on a solitary rattling snare drun1, whose sound alone broke the stillness of the air that was soon to resound \Vith ghost- recalling shouts and yells. \Vhen they had crept over the fence, out of the shado·w of darkness into the street, \Ve discovered that they \vere the 1-{ .. resh n1en clad in J'oluz Clzina- 11tan summer costume, plus \vhite n1ask and cap. Having proceeded to the residence of Judge Landon, they soon brought forth coffin, battle- axes, torches and transparencies. 1'h e first transparency was decorated in front with a representation of a cen1etery, showing the ton1bs of the i\lgebras of the three prcceeding ~enerations. Behind \Vere some prob- lems which we did not attempt to solve. On the second \Vas a scene of a Freshman walking o'er the ver- dant grass while his eye scans the page:; of a [ ook ( \Ve could not tell whether it \Vas l\1other Goose or a pony). Behind \vas the old old story, \A horse, a horse, n1y king- don1 for a horse. } At Judge Lan- don's residence the procession was n1et by a detachment of the Conti- nental Dru111 Corps and also a detach- tnent of the S'clzotcctady l)olice. From this place they proceeded clo\vn Union until they had crossed the canal bridge wher~ the Sophs made an unsuccessful atten1pt to encircle the Fresh in a long rope. The march was continued down Union to Church, clo\vn Washington avenue, up State to \Vhite street. rrhen through \Vhite and Barrett streets to Union \Vhere the horse and wagon \Vith the \Vood and tar was in waiting. The procession then moved on to the Blue Gate \Vhich was \Vir~J, but en- tering by the upper gate they were soon at the pyre. rfhe obsequies were as follo·ws : Carmen L.ugubri.... . . ... J>foritores Pocma . . . . . ............... l)octa Consolatio Ploratoribus ..... Saccrdos Oratio . . . . . . ............. Orator Cant us . . . . . . . . .......... Clzorus LzjlztiJzg of the 1-)rc by the 1-)riest. 1~h ese ceremonies \Vere carried on amid a \Vorse-tban- \tViggins' storm of snow and ice and the shouting and blowing of horns. IYiean while New- com b had been reduced to ashes and with one last, sadv lingering look the mourners proceeded to their rooms. ri'he committee deserve praise for the manner in which the exercises \vere conducted Every thing was arranged \Vith precision and secrecy; in fact the Freshmen then1selves did not knovv the plans until they started to march. The names of the com- mittee are as follows: G. S. Dorwin, J. M. Mosher, I~. C. Courtright, H. S. Judson, C. J. Perkins.

THE CON:CORDIENSIS. 173 -Under the direction of Benedict, '84, a number of the students pre- pared several farces duri tg second term to be given at ·the proposed college fair. The fair did not take place and so Mr. Benedict and his troupe offered to give the \Two Buzzards '' on the second evening of the Broom Drill under the auspices of the First Reformed Church. At the Drill the most popular student of Union College was voted for. We will give fu11 particulars in our next. -The Y. M. C. A. of the college have printed prqgrammes of the Wednesday and Sunday meetings this tern1. On the card are the sub- ject for discussion, text and name of speaker. -Prof. Price returned last week. We are very sorry to t!ee that the Prof.'s health is not ·1huch 1 better. He has been advised by his physi- cian to give up all worlc for the pres- ent and take a thorough rest. -with an entire separation from college du- ties and plenty of open air exercise Wf' hope soon to see a decided im- provement. -Prof. Wells and family were out. of to,vn during the holidays. They have now returned and thP Prof, with health much improved, has resumed his usual duties. / ('27. Prof. William l'homson, D. D. was a graduate in the class of'27, the late Dr. Lepnard Woods, Presi- dent of Bowdoin College, and the late lJr. John Wayland being mem- bers of his class. He studied The- ology at Andover, and after gradua- tion was settled for one year in the Congregational Church at North Bridgewater, Conn. In '34 he was called to the Professorship of He- brew in the Theological Sen1inary at Hartford, Conn., which position he resigned in '8 1. He was elected President of the Seminary in '57 which position he still retains. For- ty-nine years of his life have been spent in the interests of the Semina- ry ; a long and honorable period, and few men indeed have a brighter re- cord of christian service and influ- ence. Q?~· Thotnson is enjoying an old age ot health and activtty, and while he rejoices greatly in the suc- cess that has come to his Alma Mater in these later years, yet he believes that there are still brigh~er prospects for her in coming years) ~I. Judge Charles B. Lawrence, a former Chief] ustice of the Illinois Supreme Court, died recently at Decatur, Ala., where he was tempo- rarily staying for his health. The dec~ased was born in Vergennes, Vt., Dec. 2oth, I 82o. Shortly after his graduation at Union College in 1841, he went to Alabama, where he spent two yea!·s teaching school. In I 843, he \vent to St. Louis, ~vhere he began the study of law in the office Senator Geyer, and was admitted to practice two years later when he moved to Quincy, Ill. and formed a law partnership with Ar- chibald Williams, one of the leading lawyers in that section of the North- west. This co-partnership contin- ued until 1856, when in consequence of over-work, Judge Lawrence's health gave way·and he was obliged to retire from his large practice. He gave up all business and professional cares and went to Europe in search of recreation and relaxation. He re- mained abroad until 1858 when he returned to Illinois and bought a farm in Warren county, intending to :· ~ j :·.i ,,, ii

. I I . I . . THE CONCORDIENSIS. 173 -Under the direction of Benedict, '84, a number of the students pre- pared several farces duri 1g second t~rm to be given at the proposed college fair. The fair did not take place and so Mr. Benedict and his troupe offered to give the \T\vo Buzzards\ on the second evening of the Broon1 Drill under the auspices of the First Reformed Church. At the Drill the most popular student of Union College \Vas voted for. We will give full particulars in our next. -TheY. M. C. A. of the college have printed programmes of the Wednesday and Sunday meetings this tern1. On the card are the sub- ject for discussion, text and nan1e of speaker. - rrof. Price returned last \Veek. We are very sorry to ~fee that the ProL 's health is not much better. He has been ad vised by his physi- cian to give up all worlz for the pres- ent and take a thorough rest. \Vith an entire separation from college du- ties and plenty of open air exercise wr~ hope soon to see a decided im- pro\'Cinent. ·--Prof. vVells and family \Vere out. of town during the holidays. They have now returned and thP Prof, \vith health much in1proved, has resumed his usual duties. V/ ~27. Prof. William rhomson, D. D. \vas a graduate in the class of'27, the late Dr. Leonard Woods, Presi- dent of Bo\vdoin College, and the late Dr. John Wayland being mem- bers of his class. He studied 'The- ology at Andover, and after gradua- tion was settled for one year in the Congregational Church at North Bridgewater, Conn. In '34 he was called to the Professorship of He- brew in the Theological Sen1inary at Hartford, Conn., which position he resigned in '8 I. He was elected President of the Sen1inary in '57 which position he still retains. For- ty-nine years of his life have been spent in the interests of the Setnina- ry; a long and honorable period, and few men indeed have a brighter re- cord of christian service and influ- ence. (/\Dr. Thon1son is enjoying an old age~ of health and activity, and while he rejoices grcatl y in the suc- cess that has con1e to his Alma l\later in these later years, yet he believes that there are still brighter prospects for her in coming years:; /./\;41. Judge Charles B. Lawrence, a former Chief Justice of the Illinois Supretne Court, died recently at Decatur, Ala., \Vhere he \vas tempo- rarily staying for his health. The deceased was born in V crgennes, Vt., Dec. 2oth, I 820. Shortly after his graduation at Union College in 184I, he went to Ala bam at \Vh ere he spent two yca:·s teaching school. In I 843, he went to St. Louis, where he began the study of law in the office Senator Geyer, and was admitted to practice two years later when he moved to Ouincv, Ill. and ....., \' formed a la\v partnership with Ar- chibald vVillian1s, one of the leading lawyers in that section oft he North- west. This co-partnership contin- ued until I 8 56, when in consequence of over-work, Judge La\vrence's health gave way and he was obli~ed to retire from his largepractice. He gave up all business and professional cares and went to Europe in search of recreation and relaxation. Here- mained abroad until I 8 58 when he returned to Illinois and bought a farm in vVarren county, intending to

174 THE CONCORDIENSIS. devote the remainder of his life to agricultural pursuits. He had made ho·wever, too excellent reputation as a lawyer to be allowed a quiet far- mer's life and in r86o, was elected to fill the Circuit of Warren co.unty. This position he held until I 863, vvhen he was elected to fill the vacancy made by Judge Canton. He held this office for nine years, during the latter portion of which he was Chief- Justice of the State. Then ,moving to Chicago he form- ed the law partnership of Lawrence & Campbell, and was a member of this firm at the time of his death. He was a warm friend of President Lincoln and was a staunch member of the Republican party from the date of its organization. C He was a pure and able jurist and his person- all motives were never impugned ev- en by his political enemies) ~80. Robert Landon, of Schenec- tady, is orator of the graduating class at t~e Albany Law School. '\/\'. . '83. The many acquaintances and friends of Mr. Dufresne, will read with pleasure this translation from a French paper, La Minerve, published at Montreal. Under the head HHon- nr ur a un Canadien\ it says : ''We hear with pleasure that Mr. Ibrahim Dufre ne has been appointed topo- graphical surveyor of the State, after having passed with distinction a se- vere examination. ~tis we11 to state that the gentleman is the first French Canadian who has been appointed topographical surveyor and w·e cor- dially congratulate hin1.. We are convinced in advanced that, thanks to the higher studies which he has had the ad vantage of pursuing in one of the n1ost celebrated universities of the republic, and to the energy with which he is gifted, it is right to ex- pect a brilliant future for him. We also learn that he has already engag- ed with the federal governrnen t for certain surveys on the Saskat~hewan river in the north ·west and tllat he will so?n l~~v.· e for the fie~d of his operations.) ----- ·---- ------ LAFAYETTE-During the closing days of last terrn. a very sHc:eessful revival was conduced throught the in- fluence of the Brainerd Society.- A new departure was made last term in the study of Homer by the Sophomore class. Instead ot<reading the text, a debate was held _during the last week on the questio11, \Re- solved, That I-Iector is more, wG.r:tby of adm!ration than Achilles.\-~resi-. dent Cattell is anxious ab(>ut his health, and the friends of th,e college fear that the Dr. n1ay be induced to offer his resignation. CoLUMBIA-The Sophomore crew has been training son1e time for the. Spring regatta, but the Acta com- plains that the other class· cr~v\VS do not show the same energy.-An1ong the subscriptions for the B()at CL1b appears some like the following : \3.00andagas stove,' \3.00 with hopes ?\-The ~oise made \by the steam in the pipes, annoys th~ Soph- omores -The gytnnasium is tDo small. -At a meeting of the Board of Trus- tees, held on Monday, Apxil 2d, a report and appeal written by Presi- dent Barnard was presenteci to the Trustees for their approval. The report shows that the financial con- dition of the college is mucll Tower than what has been generally sup- posed and that now the institution is in debt for the new ouildings put up in late years. The appeal ·is made to th~ Alumni and friends of the col- lege for means to establish a depart-

THE CONCORDIENSIS. I7S mf'nt for the advanced instruction of Atnerican graduates, which is so n1uch needed in this country. An appeal is also made for an increase in the library, now numbering so- 000 volumes, a library too small for the present needs, n1uch less for the proposed University. WrLLfAMs-The Athettaeum finish- ed its IX Vol. \Vith.the 24th of March number, which contained a neat index of the years work.-The draw- ing for rooms in the new Morgan li all gave rise to some high bidding. PRINCETON-The Prz'~tcetonian is to be printed weekly.-A new pre- paratory school is to be built near the college, which will compare fa- . vorably with Exeter and Andover.- A petition is being sent around the college for signature to the effect that the Faculty be requested to modify the grading system and to ask of the Trustees a radical change. The pile of exchanges on our table makes the temporary exchange edi- tor \tired and it is only after re- peated inducements that we can nerve him for the task. At the first grab we bring out a representative from North Carolina, bearing the name of Wake Forest Student. As we scan the title page we notice beside the office !(:,'of busi- ness manager, the name of a former member of '84, known familiarly as~ \Samn1y Royall.\ Giving the maga- zine a more searching examination, now we seen1 to see the· traces of ''Sammy's\ handwork in a whale story which has been thus sprung on an unsuspecting public. We are glad to meet our old friend once .more and we must admire the general ap- pearance of his paper thus returning good for evil to the exchange editor. After so tnuch honey and so little effect in filling up, we are rather dis- gusted and as the Bates Stztdent ap- pears, and we notice that five young n1en and one young 1 ady compose the board, we cannot but wonder ho~vv such a board can exist in peace but the ·paper itself bears no sign of in- ternal conflict. A brilliant cover next attracts our eye and we bring to light the \Occ£- de~tt\ from the land of the setting sun. Then we hunt for its t\.vin the \Bet·keleyan.\ Both have a western snap in their makeup and devote small space to trash. We are glad to see that warfare has ceased be- tween them and they must acknowl- edge that peace is the best, although it seems strange not to find some fiery article for or against societies in their columns. The female representatives, the \Sunbeam·' and Howard College ''I-Ildex and Chronicle\ must receive some attention but we must be care- ful as we know not the disposition of our absent editor toward these gen tie visitors. They are crisp little papers. Our last year's exchange edi- tor was totally \gone\ on the Sun- beam and if he was here now we are afraid we would have to \chronicle\ another attack. We cannot keep

THE CQN~CORDIENSIS. thinking what a pleasant thing it would be to have a young lady busi- ness manager, especially when it be- comes necessary to collect the bills. . i\noth er brilliant cover uf ocher- ous hue catches our fancy and ·out comes the Delaware Review, a stran- ger to our sanctum. It bears the mark of vouth, but, no doubt, after a little experience will take the rank which its outward appearance would seem to clairn. We do not admire the taste of the business manager however, in sandwiching \ads\ be- tween the reading n1ater. A lean and skeleton -like paper from Cincinnati next appears. Most of its pages are filled with locals and notes in a rather ill proportioned manner, while in its exchange col- umn appear jokes which Noah must have amused himself with while wait- ing for a chance to tie up to a dock. While sorting out our brilliantly covered exchanges we so1nehow ~missed theDickinsonia1t which comes to us clothed in a pretty suit of green It has a staid and review-like way of expressing things but we are glad to welcon1e it to our \den. If these criticisms should offend any of our exchanges they will please delay their challenges for a few weeks until our editor has returned. ------------------------.---- ~lxtranea:. -------------------- STUDENTS' CATECHISM. Q. What doth the student do when the faculty disregardeth his wishes? A. When the faculty disregard- eth his wishes the student loseth his respect for the faculty. Q. How does this effect the fac- ·It - ? lJ y. . · A. This affecteth the faculty by crushing its spirit and blighting its prospects . Q. What will finally become of the faculty if it continues to disre- gard the wishes of the students? A. If the faculty continues to disregard the wishes of the students it will continue to deteriorate in character until the long-suffering patience of the students be exhaust- ed, when it will be utterly cast off and the institution will decline until nothing is left of it but the Absence Committee.-E.z. A HAT RIBBON. Deftly sewn by dainty fingers ; · Delicate in form. and hue; Round this ribbon s letters lingers Some sweet thought of you- Some sweet thought of you, dear lady, And my heart beats pit-a-pat Every time I see it, Saidie, Nestling in my hat. Kings may wear their jewels royal, Set in crown upon their heads-· VI elcome to them ! I am loyal To these silken threads, In whose little interlaces, Like the perfume in a rose, Hides one of the sweetest faces- Whose do you suppose? F. D. s. Acta Columbia. -Freshman to President : '' May I be excused from the College to-day? For my aunt's to be married. just over the way.\ President to Freshman : \Young man, if I rightly remember the date, Since last Monday morning you've married just eight.\-Ex. The Poet suplicates the muse, And e'en brings forth a damper, The tom cat duplicates the mews, And e'en brings forth a dam-purr. ( Contz'nued z'n our next, -i. e., if our necks COJttlliU(! with us. )-Ex.

_ __ __ ......... --.......~ __ ~--.~· ~-- .... - ., __ ,.. \\'-='· ~ ___ ............. .-. __ ..,......_...:~.......,,.~~-- .,.,.._\!:..:--. .~ ·--\'.f-- 1.r.. ·: .... :.:.---.A,...;;..::_ '1':::.\\'.' -:.. ~ ... _ ....... _ ·:;:,;. :-_- __ ·:--~ --:. ~--·-:_.:_:e-'2!~.:. :f~\:. ~-~- ----- lk; ... -------~----------------- .... -----~-----·- .....-: ........ ........._...-~----------- .._---·~--~ ... -----~----~-~-·-lkl<:'-x.?~---~---- .... - ..... - 7 .. ----~--·--:1\·-..- .. -- ... ----~--·-,----------..-·-------- ~:'-... 1-..... - I c.0l ~.n I z· ~I ~, Ql ~I 0 u z 0 u ~ ::r:: f-i ·\;\\_ • .;;:· • .O.\···n_c. .-.;.-:-- : -;;.,;: · .. - ~-,_- .. ·~ ~-\' -- -. :00: ~ ·=- -:.i.= -.=- --~::-- =--....--.' _:Y;.-.;;:.':::. '\:-:::: ~~:.:-:7 __,_ ...,._..;·---~-~--=-~--:.:-£-:\\-:::-.=:!'-=:--~----:::-.:.::::~~--:;.~_::;;.::-~-- WE SOLICIT YOU TO STOP AT THE GRAND UNIONH ::S:OTEL, NEW YORX CITY, (Op:posita the Gra.nd. Centra.! Depot.) Fan1ilies, tn1.velen;; and tourists arrivi 1g or leaving the City of Ne v York t,) vis1t Niagara, Saratoga, White ~1nuntains, Long Bran:::h, or other sttmmer resort~, will land it convenient to stop at the GRA~ D UNIO~ HOTEL. First~class in all app::>in~men~s. elevator and all modern impmvem~nt~ ; European plan, 450 elegantly furnished ruorns, reduc~cl tJ on_; d..>llar and upwards p~r day, (a:s) eh:gantly furnisheci suits for families) fitted up at a cost of ont!! mil!i, >n dollars. Fan1ilies, travele1·s and t m·ists can live better for le.~s m. mey at the GR 1\.:'\D UNION than at any other first-class Hotel 111 the city. Its dining rooms are eleganlly carpeted ; its Restaurant, Cafe, Lunch and Wine rooms are sup- pl~ed with the best at moderate prices. An elegant Restaurant 7 5 feet square, just finished, where families can dine quietly as at home, and at a much less expense. A number of rooms elegantly fitted up for Dinner, Lunch ann Sup- per parties. < iuest':i' baggage to and fmm Grand Central Depot free, thus sa.,vin.~ carriage hire and ex.pense of haggq.g transfer. \V. D, GARI{!Sl).~, Manager, Try tht lJRAND UJ\ION. I ' ' -. ··-?\\.::--\'·\\\ ...,._. - . -.1--J ~ I -. ,~ C/J ~ .,.._...::j aJ ~ C/2 il) ...... rn ~ I~~ I 0 aJ ! (\ ~ ~ ~ ~ (::0 L) ~ ~) 0 w ~ r.n (V') \.0 0 \' 1...) ~ I )..-----1 CD e 0 p J:l:l ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I> :::3 ~ ~ -- D\':2 . ~ 0 u ~ b ~ r.r.J ~ 0 4-J 4-J <r.J ~ ...Q < ~ -~ ~ w] ~~ NE:t ~ ~ r::r:....t .... r:;:/.:2 ~ ~ c._::) ~ra m5 V) ~ ~ ~ l;j) ~ ~ 'J) ~ ~ (]) :> 0 P--1 ~ ~ ~ ~ Hcei -j.Jf-1 ~ ~ tj ~ Vj E il) ;...... (}) ~ ,.. ,..s:;::: >. (.) .. H ~- . 'u ... . ~ ......-1 m u ~ ~ <I> C'l ·~ ~ ~~2 ~ >=I ~~z C\j ...., ~ C'l ~ ~ r:/J . \E--t::..r-1~~ ......... ~[;rJ r>r.flu; ~ ~ til ~t:~ ~ ~ cj 0:: ·- (.) ~ ~ H.~ ~c;3J5 ~ ¢ C'd rl.l ·- > ~ ..,.. CU...J f;..d· ~ ~ ....j.-.J .J :::::: (.) ... ~ ~ (/) < ~ a3\ ·~ >.~~ii~ 0 -+30U ~ \\C) +' C'l (X) ~ ~ ..,.. d ~ ~ ~ 1..'\J .. (1)~2 ~0 R ::l:= ~ Uz ouv ~ C,) ~ 'V §. ~ ~ J.t ; -~ ~ <l.) 0 ._, ~ .....-! ~~l.-\\-.i ~ rov\\\\' U ;::<'V ~ 0 ~ (/) u ::J ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ u ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ z ~. t'-..... ~ ,......; ,......; ·- ~ J ~ ·~0 ~0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ..s c:::a ~ CDI ..s::l c::a 11%:11 c:: ~ h __;: • ........ Cl:. ·~ Ji ro r.n ~ 0 ...c:: ~ 11::::1 (l)·a ~·==- (ij~ (])~ og

THE C·ONCORDIENSIS. GEORGE E. VINCENT, GENr'~ FtrR'NISHING GOODS And Mannfa::tnrer of TI-IE ANCIENT CITY SHIRT, 1l~vers Block, Schenectady, JV\\'. r. ,.. CHAS. N. YATES, FIT'RNITURE -AND- Ul'R'OLSrElUNG 'W AREHOUS!r Special Atfenfi01t g;ive11: to Undertakitzg-. 62 State Streel, Schertectady, N. 1\: B. LODGE, G ? e-nts _F,tshioa::lble Cust01n Clothing. Boys' Youth's and Children's Clothing> I 54 N. Pearl St.,. I Albany, N.Y. I Bi\.UM'S CIGAR STORE I -AND- I NE\\WS-ROO:M I Cigars a11d Tobacco I Jf the Cho:cest Kinds cons,tantly on hand. Cigarrettes a I specblty. All the Leading Periodicals. Subscriptions re- '.:'ectf ull)'_ ~olici ted_ I R.K.QUAYLE, t ~ ALBANY, N.Y.> Dip·lomas, Views, Portraits, Wedding aJZd College Invitations, Oa.rds, Monograms, Etc. Original Designs when de-sired. \VINDSOR RESTAURANT, FAIRFIELD&, ELMENDORF, Props., 3 I & 33 Maiden La-ne, Albany, N. Y. WILSON DAVIS, Merchant Tailor! l I5I State St.,Sclzerzectady, N. Y. ALBANY A~ENCY FO!t PoPE M 'F'G Co., COLUlVIBIA EH0YC0LE3, ALSO DEALER IN 6o State Street, Albany, N. Yo A FINE LOT OF BOOTS SHOES & RUBBERS, Alv . .rays. in Stock at J~ G. SCHUMACHER)S NOI! 267 STATE STREETJ (Nea:r Crescent Park) Especial Care given to Custotn Work .. Call and see for yourself. Dr. B. F. Ca1~111ichael, D€I~<9IS<9, 82 Ferry Street, Schenectady, N. Yo All operation.s upon the teeth per- fonned with neatness and dispatch. All classes of work perfonned at about one-half the usual prices. Teeth filled with Gold, $I.oo and upward. Fillings other than Gold;- 50 cents. Teeth Extracted with Gas, 5oc; without Gas, 25c. All Work vVan·anted. Patronized by Faculty and Students. R. O'NEIL, 7I ItT I 3JI1 JF7I I L Of1, No. I24 State Street, SCHENECTADY, JV: r.,

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 179 J H. BARHYTE, WOOD BROS., DEALER IN Large hne of BOOKS AND S1}TIONE~Y Paper Ha1tgi11gs a1Zd Decoratio1ts. A FULL LINE OF COLLEGE TEXT BOOXS, ~Rooms papered as Shott Notice. Ready Made and .lJfade to Order. A LARGE LINE OF U'NDERWE.At. All the Latest Style of _I I_I_S_ta_te_S~t~_e_e_t,_S_ch_e_1te_ct_ad_:JJ_,_ N._- _·_ Y. / SCARFS, TIES, COLLARS, &c. GEO. E. DURYEE; 1 Gooas received for Troy Laundry. I IJ3 Sta~e Street, Schenectady, N. Y. CONR1\D GCETZ, • DRUGGIST, _I9_I_,_~t_a __ te_ .... _S't_re_e_t ,_S_c_h_en_e __ ct_a_dy_,_N._. _· _1. 1 , . MER C HA~'~!LER! AILOR, THOS. I-I. REEVES & CO. _Foreign aJZd Do1nestic liVoolen Goods, Dealer in Staple and Fancy DRY O·OODS ' CarlJetings, 8~1 Cloths, Etc. Also a Full Line of Cloths and Cassimeres. 137 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. AND \/\linter OAI:::JSa ·rhe Largest and Best Assortment of Nobby Styles to be found in the city. SAVE A DOLLAR. BEYER the HATTER, 149 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. FRENCH & JOHNSON, ME~CHANT TAILO~S, No. 35 Maiden Lane, A L B ~ N Y, N . Y. W. T. HANSON & CO .. Druggists a11d Apothecaries, Toilet Articles and Druggists' undries, :FINE CIGARS A SPECIALTY. Pro~ri~tors of HA~SON'S MAGIC CD~N SALVE, 195 State St., Schetzectady, N.Y. 85 Centre Street, Schenectady, N, Y, Perfect Fit and Good Work Guaranteed. 20 PER CENT Sjl VED BY GOING TO LE'WIS FELDMANN To have your Clothing Cut and Made FOR FALL AND WINTER. IS7 State St., Cor. It R. Up tairs. G 0 rr.o Iowen;, the ~hotographer, FOR BE1lT PHOTOGRAPHS, 225 State Street, Sc!zenectady, N. Y. New Goal & Wood Yard. I.JEIFELS & McDONALD, 95 Fonda Street, 1zear U?Zion. Coal Delivered., Screened FROM UNDER COVEB, ~+-~ATxLOWE$TxMARKETxPRigE~.~·~<- STUDENTS! Euy your Co~l at the Neare~t flace I , .. p. \ ~- l l ': l .: 1 _, : I r, l'i ,) ,. ,> ,_; !' .,, :i l l l

r8o THE CONCORDIENSIS. F. DEF. GRAY,· Successor to J. C. DuE.LL, Operative an_d Mechanical DENTIST! Office and Residence, • No. 47 State St., Schenectady, N. Y. GO TO FOR BARGAINS IN Boots, Shoes & Rtlbbers, BARNEY BLOCK, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. '-\'uj ~ (/) (/) ·- ::::> OJ :-1~ j30 ~~~ c \(Z U>;;;> ,_ =;w (/)=~ J~~ ~mm . ...; 1- 0 (f) CJI r_;:,) ?- ( ~~~ aJ ,,y_..- . \J ( . ,_ '~ TOBACCO AND ('IGARETTEi~-r \\ . . Only Pure Tobacco and Pure Paper I SWEET CA:FORAL, CoRK MouTHPIECE.-Unsurpassed for cleanliness, econ- omy and convenience. The soft feeling of the cork between the teeth makes this the most desirable and pleasant mouth- piece, besides absorbing the nicotine and rendering a cooling sensation to the smoke. Same tobacco as the renowned SwEER CAPORAL CIGAR- ETTES, absolutely jure. The Caporal, Caporal % and Veteran Mouthpiece Cigarettes are highly recommended. STBAIGHT-CUT CIGARETTES. This reliable brand is made from extra fine, selected, prime, mild, Golden Virginia Leaf, and is the FINEST CIG- ARETTE as to Quality, Flavor, and Workmanship, ever OF- FERED FOR SALE. Ask for KINNEY BROS. STRAIGHT CUT, KrNNEY ToBAccco CC', NEw YoRK, Manufacturers of the following well-known brands; CAPORAL, CAPORAL %, SWEET CAPORAL, ST. JAMES, ST. JAMES % MATINEE,, ENTRE NOUS, SPORTS, AMBASSADOR, UNION CLUB, VETERAN, ETc., ETc. ,oor-Buy no other. Sold by all dealers throughout the world. W. & L. E. GURLEY, Manufacturers of CIVlL ENGINEER' & SURVEYORS' INSTRUMENTS, TROY, N.Y. Dealers in Drawing Instruments of every description, Sheet and Roll Drawing Paper, Engineers' and Surveyors Transits, &c., &c. ROBEltT T. MOIR, (Successor to John Gilmour), DEALER IN BCOXS, STATIONERY AND PAPIR H,ANGl~G~, NOS. ~01 STATE &116 CENTRE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Agency for Anchor, Inman andHamburgh-American Trans- Atlantic Steamship Lines. STANFORD BLOCK . ~HOE$ IN LATE$T $TYLE. TO MEASURE. FIT GUARANTEED t ~~~ ~~ ~·~ =wrJ . ~\ = __ =..! = ~--v~--~'~ Tweddle Hall $hoe $tore, ~ ALBANY, N. Y. ~~r. g. g. grocc, DENTIST, 2 3 5 ~ State Street, Schenectady, N. Y A. BROWN & SON, UPHOLSTERERS AND Furniture Manufacturers, I54 State Street, Sche11ectady, N. Y. L. T. CLUTE, FASHIONABLE HATTER, Agent for Dunlap & Knox Hats. Best assortment of Hats, Caps, Trunks, Bags, &c. in the city IOI State St., Schenectady, N.Y. . G. PALMA TIER, ! CUSTOM BOOT)l{]J SHOE M}KER. epairing romptly Done 82 Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y.

