1n the _\'HE per of T. Mr. to h_is z. a ' s to aTtd he that ' The Con.cordiensis. VoL VII. UNION UNIVERSITY, rfHURSDAY, DEc. 20, I 883. No.3· IT seems to us that it would have been both proper ' and politic for the recent ball conn11ittee to have invited one or two non-society tnen to join with then1 in n1aking arrangernents. The non-society elen1:ent in this college is too strong and too respectable to be at all slighted. The ball was supposed to be a college baH, and evidently the society n1en thought they were the whole college, since· they took entire charge of matters and con1pleted all arrangernents. But non- society men could buy tickets. · eetings at a n1:ore convenient hour, and so no hn- 1 proven1ent can be n1ade in that direction. If, how- l ever, our 1:nen1bers were fully alive to the importance ! of the work, it would be found to be entirely con- \ venient. In college each 1nan exerts rnore influence than he can forin any idea of, and it is important that he should exert that influence in the right direction. If the Christian n1erf here take a finn stand in the n1eetings their influence will be a power for right. Moreover there is need for decisive action. Dr. N ott once said that of the thousands of young n1en with whotn he associated in his life, he could scarcely recall one who had taken a stand for Christ after leaving college. Fron1 this staten1ent we can see the itnport- ance of reaching our fellows now, for in life they are to be a power either for right or wrong. They will respect our profession n1ore if we do our duty toward then1 and we can lose nothing. THE Y. M. A. of Albany recently celebrated their fiftieth anniversary. The poet of the occasion was Wn1. H. McElroy, class '6o, at present on the staff of the Tribune. Judge ·Hand, '57, read t be his- tory, Hon. H. R. Pierson, '4 5, was the chairn1an of the anniversary exercises, and Ron. A. J. Parker, Jr., '6 3, was chainnan of the con1n1ittee on arrangernents. We are proud to see Union's alun1ni take so protninent a position in the anniversary exercises of an associa- tion with such a record as the Y. M. A. possesses. THE adoption of the V. M. C. A. organization m our college has proved itself a wise n1easure in its operation ; but like preceding organizations it n1akes but little progress, n1et, as it is, by the indifference of the rnany and the fluctuating zeal of the few. 'i\Thile we do not wish to appef;tr to apologize for the lack of zeal and consistency on the part of the n1en1bers, yet 1 it would be well to state that there are obstacles in the work which we have not yet been able to overcotne. The hour of the Wednesday n1eeting is at the close of the day's recitations, and there are few men who are willing to exchange the hour for recreation for the prayer-tneeting. Again, on Sunday there are no ex- ; ercises to keep tnen on the hill, and as the students · belong to the various denon1inations, it is natural that they should find work in their respective churches and thus neglect the in1portant work among their fellows. There see1ns to be no way for arranging the time for pREPARATIONS have been made for the joint debate between the Adelphic and Philon1athean Literary Societies, and it will take place at an early date in January... 1'he question adn1its of ample argun1ents on either side, and reads as follows : \ Re- solved, That trial by jury should be abolished.\ The affirrnative will be n1aintained by the Philon1athean and the negative by the Adelphic Society. The con- testants for the Adelphics are : Stoller, '84 ; Parsons, '84; Bailey, '8 5. On the part of the Philo1natheans they are : Benedict, '84 ; J\!fcCown, '84 ; G-riswold, '85. The n1en have had sufficient tin1e to prepare their argun1ents, and we expect that the forn1er repu- tation of these debates will be fully sustained. So popular and so useful are these debates that we wish they n1ight come more often. 'The 1nen, to be sure, have a chance to debate every Saturday in their re- spective societies, but when the debate is public and the honor of their society is at stake, the argtHnents are likely to be better and more carefully prepared, and certainly no tin1e can be better spent by a young . man than in preparing a good debate. ~~ ... ' .. ,- I' -,, t ,,. ~-) j !. ( •\ !' ;•, '·' •'

.,· \ ., ' ... 'I ' ' l '! It Tl-IE CONCORDIENSIS. O UR conten 1 poraries seem. to be enjoying then.!- . Union, and more rarely a good one. Mr. Arnold's selves hnmensely in a little ,. pen slinging\ at cotning heTe would not only be very likely toprove a Mr. Matthew Arnold, so we think it is high tin1e tbat 1nen1orable event in our college life, but also a n1ost we took a turn at hi1n. Mr. Arnold, we understa11d, instructive lesson. is the most en1inent writer an1ong English tnen of let- ---· · ters of to-day. He has worked unselfishly. for 1nany 1\' FINER clay for the Yale-Harvard foot-ball gatne, years for the good of the English speaking people. .L~ at the Polo grounds, New York, could not have He has now con1e to America, like his distinguished been wished. . countrytnan, Henry Irving, for the purpose of carryir1g the grand stand was crowded with ladies and gen- back with hin1 a \good round su1n,\ and doing us all tlemen, wearing the colors of their favorites, and the the good in his power. It seen1s a little a~using that grounds a1l about the field was a swann of college he should criticise us in his very first lecture, before 111 en, coaches and private vehicles of every description. he really knew what we· looked like. However, wh.at The coa~hes of Yale, with their blue streame~·s float- he said about us was not in the least disagreeable, ll>ut ing in the breeze, greatly outntnnbered those of Bar- was only a littlt- harmless pleasantry delivered in a vard. Many other colleges were represented on the 1nanly, straightforward way. Since his first appearance coaches which lined the field. in Atnerica he has been popular with his audiences, The fair sex were present in great nun1bers, and which have been large and representative, and that, assisted right courageously in giving the college yells. too, without the aid of short breeches or a pretty 1 One enthusiastic collegian, having a little too n1uch won1an. We have lately learned that he is shortly to I Thanksgiving wine aboard, persisted in n1aking day lecture at son1e of our protninent colleges. This bit I hideous by soloing upon a cracked bugle frotn the top of information has led us to ask ourselves why should \ of his coach. he not lecture at Union. It is not long since that we : The gan 1 e was called at 2.45 P. l\I. Yale outplayed listened in misery to an eminent conten1porary of his, Harvard at every point, one n1an doing all the work one nan1ed Freen1an, who has written a history of I for the latter. England, and who contributes to various English re- Harvard sadly lacked good runners. The contest views. That gentlen1an drew a large audience and was frequently 111 ade 1nore interesting by fistic tilts entertained then1 for an hour and a half by n1urderi ng · between excited players,. which were earnest if not the king's English in a n1ost horrible manner. It took \ scientific. ~ those of us who were present that night some time to At last the gan 1 e was finished, with Yale the win- recover fron1 the pain inflicted, and we have ever since ner. The crowd poured out through the entrances, been very suspicious of English lecturers. Even if the boozy collegian upon the coach blew a weird fare- Mr. Arnold were to con1e to Union, no doubt tnany of well upon his bugle, and soon the grounds were bare us, wary fro1n experience, would hang about the doors once 111 ore. at first, in order to escape if the dose proved dis- Judging from the crowd present, more than $ 10 , 000 agreeable. But it is very probable that Mr. Arnold n 1 ust have been received at the gates. New York would not prove a bore, besides there is an old prov~ was hardly big enough to hold Yale College that night. erb which says, \ Nothing venture, nothing win.\ 'v The opportunity of hearing hin1 is surely worth the risk. Moreov·er, it would be not an idle curiosity that would A COLLEGE INCIDENT.* urge us to hear Mr. Arnold. We confess we feel a JN a large university,- situated in. a flourishing com- deep interest in hin1. He stands out fro1n the literary n1ercial ·city, it is a custon1 of the students to fill world a solitary a11d interesting figure. A scholar, a 1 the· gallery of the principal theatre. when Italian or poet, a great critic, a n1aster of English prose, and, i English operas are performed. Between the acts they above all, a teacher. He has no doubt son1ething to · sing their college songs to their own evident pleasure, tell us college students that will set us to thinkil1g, as they heartily applaud each song they sing. and, moreover; thinking in the right way. If the s-tu- On returning homP after a certain perfonnance dents will at once con1e forward, express their desire some, intoxicated probably with the n1usic, becan1e to hear Mr. Arnold, and be willing to furnish. the 1 hilarious. Gas lan1ps and sn1all signs seemed to necessary funds, we Inay be able to have hiln with us I arouse in their breasts feelings of enlnity, as they set before very long. It is rarely we have a lecturer at [ out to demolish the forn1er and carry off the latter (a

a ave the ege the uch day top tilts not ces, fill or to set (a THE CONCORDIENSIS. 39 practice, by the way, not confined to this institution). The authorities, becon1ing tired of what appeared to then1 peiiodic rowdyistn detern1ined to tnake an example of those they caught. . Five unfortunate stu- dents were detected in destroying public property, and the city generously furnished thetn with lodgings for the night. Brought before the local n1:agistrate the next n1orning they were severely repritnanded and each fined $I 20. But that was not the end of their trouble ; the college authorities sent each of thetn a polite note in a yellow envelope (other colleges also seem to use yeUow envelopes.) The students, sorry to see what they considered a joke tenninate so seri- ously for their con1panions} paid, by subscription, the fines in.flicted and obtained, by petition, the reinstate ment of the offenders. .. 1\tlatters went along sn1oothly for a few tnonths, and the incident was forgotten, until one day almost all the tradesn1en and n1anufacturers, even undertakers, chin1- ney s\veeps, drayn1en and dog dealers in the city, num- bering in all thousands, received orders to co1ne to a . certain tnagistrate's house on the following day witl-~ abundant samples of the goods they dealt in, as he : wished to purchase heavily. Early the next n1orning \ the ~esidents of the quiet street in which live? the 1 magiStrate were awakened by the constant rutnbhng of : wago~s conta1n1ng all kinds of furniture, stoves, up- ! holstery, coffins, crockery, groceries, cloths, anrl every conceivable kind of ware. There were troops of n1en and boys loaded with packages and bundles, all tend- ing to one co1nn1on point. The servants, aroused by the ringing of the bell, answered the door, and to the requests to see their n1aster, replied that he had not yet arisen, until~ actually worn out, they refused any longeT to answer the summons. The crowd of tradestnen becoming larger and larger every 1n0111ent grew n1ore itnpatient, anc;l the continu- ous strean1 of new arrivals pushed forward. The ja1n became terrible. Men and boys were inextricably 111ixed with horses, carriages and wagons, while those on the outskirts pressed on, n1o111f~mtarily increasing the . Jam. The crowd becatne frantic with rage ; not only did their feelings 11 suffer, but what is still stronger, their pocketbooks. Duped th~y knew they were, but by who1n they were ignorant, and as in the case of an angry 1nan, they vented their passion on what was at hand. Suddenly some one cried out to stone the house. Scarcely were the words uttered wh.en every window pane was broken. The police were called ; a riot ensued, and it was hours before the street and those adjoining were cleared. An investigation follov~·ed ; large rewards were offer- ed, but nothing resulted. The only appearance to a clue obtained was the fact that the 1nagistrate whose house had been stoned was the one who had fined the students. PANDI. * The above I believe to be true in the main, thoug~h in particulars I may be mistaken. - \THE PERILS OF THE ARCTIC.\ DEEP drifts the snow on Siberia's ridges, Loud cracks the ice on the Lena below; \Vherc the black winter bis crystaline bridges Has laid o'er the waters, their ebb and their flow. Cold sweeps the blast o'er the prospect so cl.reary, vVhere not a tree with its dress of bright green i\ieets the sad eye of the traveller, weary Of gazing around on the same dismal scene. Save a few 'vvillows that, down by the river, Struggle to live 'neath the dark Arctic sky, vVhere the clear stars in their orbits forever Shine on, all unmoved, while men falter and die . In the lone valley, awaiting starvation, Chilled and benumbed by the North Kin.g's cold breath; Yet without murmurs or vain lamentation. De Long and his party are battling with death. Crushed in the ice, they have seen their staunch vessel Sink from their sight 'neath the pitiless waves; Ancl have been left all unaided to wrestle vVith ·winter, or find in the desert their graves. South\-vard they tramp through the drifts, growing deeper, Or rest in the snow, from the blast scarcely screen eel; While the fierce wind, still relentlessly blowing, Howls in their ears with the laugh of a fiend : \ On ! 0 toil on in your futile endeavor, Sons of the South ! though your efforts are vain; You shall return to that fair country-· never Shall rest in your happy homes never again! ,, The mighty king against whom you are striving, Laughs at man's efforts to reach his dark throne; For, as he sees the explorers arriving, He kno·ws they ·will perish, uncared for, alone . \ Now on your hearts he has laid his cold finger, There shall it lie till their beating is stilled; vVhy, foolish men, do you slothfully linger? Rouse, ere your life-blood forever is chilled ! \ Thus the fiend mocks them, and colder and colder The atmosphere grows, and still deeper the snow Drifteth around them, while fiercer and bolder, The winds from their monarch's drear fastnesses hlo·w. , . • I ( I. ': l.

I 'i ~ ,., 1 ~ ' j :! • ! ·~ . ' ·'l : l 'i . r '' ' l i : ' ' i ' ' ' . l :I ', i> . ' l ;: 'I ,· ·: THE CONCORDIENSIS. Hunger Vi'ith all its dread honors assails them, Vanishes now the lust hope of supplies; 13ravely they struggle,. but soon their strength fails them, And, one by one, death closes their eyes. Till the faint light of the stars falls revealing Only three forn1s on the bank of the strea:m; And o'er their senses that slumber is stealing \Vhich lp1ows no mvak'ning at morning's bright gleam. Calmly and peacefully through the dark river The leader and his two companions thus passed Into the land where the storm rages never, \Yhere pain and suff'ring are ended arlast. As when the long clay of tempest is over, And the sun sets in the bright western skv, \Vhere even our eyes can almost discover The gates of the beautiful City on high. But in its silent and desolate grandeur, Still the North Pole is unseen by man's eyes; And through all hardships, in spite of all danger, His restless ambition still seeks for the prize. E. T. R., '87. A WINTER'S TALE. T f-IE writer 1night have called the following a con1edy, but he was afraid it n1ight 1nake s·orne of his readers shed tears, or he n1ight have called it a tragedy, on words, but he tre1nbled lest so1ne one.should laugh at his tragic efforts. He has, therefore, done neither; he has~ in the words of the showman, allowed the reader to pay his n1oney and take his choice. He· 1night have headed this a \ Surnmer Tale,\ but as of the efforts of young writers, son1e great poet hath truly said, sorne are [ su1nn1er J tales and son1e are not, he decided to be on the right side. A second reason for calling it a \Winter's Tale\ is because it is about Christn1as [ tilne] ; and as Christrnas seldon1 occurs in the stunmer, it was not thought quite applicable to call it a \Sun1n1er Tale.\ But I imagine the question to arise in the 1nind of n1y reader ( ?) why he did not call it a Christn1as story-ah, there's the rub-why did he not? Because he wished it to be reacl. Now some n1ay think this is a curious way to begin a story, but I will try to prove to you it is the 1nark of gen1us. I have recently been reading Matthew Arnold's lecture on \Nun1bers in which I under- stood hi1n to say that a s1nall n1inority alone are in the right ; and following out his train of thoughts, I have come to the conclusion the s1naller the n1inonty the stronger the probability that they are right. I, a minority of one, n1ust certainly be right. I would have called it a \Tale of \Vinter,\ but then you know Shakespeare says : ''Brevity is the soul of wit.\ (This is probably the reason why an incipient moustache raises a sn1ile.) 'Then notice the phraseology-a \'Vinter's Tale.\ I and Scott have both agreed on the beauty of this word. Has he not written the \Tales of a Grandfather,\ and an1 I not writing a \Winter's Tale.\ Alas ! too ttue ; and poor J\'Ir. Scott did not live to read n1ine. Ah, 1nany are the sorrows of this life. In conclusion, I woulp say I am a n1an of purpose. I started out to sling together about 400 words. I have acco1nplished the good work. Result : no essa~ this tenn. THE BURNING OF SCHENECTADY. LIKE a ll10narch gone at eve to rest, The sun had sunk in the glowing west; The evening shadows vvith silent thread 0' er field and forest had darkness led; \Vhere the vernal Mohawk had rippled by, The wintry minds sent forth their sigh; And nestled close to the river's brink PANDI. vVhere the antlered deer came down to drink, H~re in the depth of the forest lay The primitive city, Schenectady. The woodman's axe had ceased to resound, All peace and quiet at evening was found; But ah, of the morning what shall. be said~ The city in smouldering ruins is laid! • As the pale fnoon strode toward her westerb goal, She beheld a sight that ·would harrow the soul, \Vith tomahawk, knife and firebrand Firmly clenched in his brawny hand, A savage horde holds on its way To the primitive city, Schenectady . And now 'tis midnight's dreary hour, That city lies wrapt in Morpheus' power. No watchman's head disturbs her street, As he silently goes on his midnight beat; Save the braying of some distant hound, No sound is heard in the w~ods around; No sentinel guards her open gate, Her inhabitants unconscious of their fate, From the toils of the day reposing lay In the primitive city, Schenectady. Meanwhile without o'er the frozen snow, Dark forms are moving to and fro; Nearer and nearer they stealthily. go, Thicker and thicker their numbers grow; Till round the city in all its might Stands a savage horde, a horrible sight. The force is divided, they silently creep To their post assigned through the lonely street . A moment more and in ruins shall lay '\' The primitive city, Schenectady.

This ache y-a :i on the ng a lVIr. ! the 30Se. '· I no DI. THE . CONCORDIENSIS. 41 His savage face grown fierce in wars Is doubly so from the paint he wears; The faintest sound his quick ears hear, He pauses- no human footstep is near- Then quickly goes toward h'is post assigned, Where thirsting for blood his savage mind Can scarcely wait for the signal to tell, When rushing forth like .a hound of hell, He shall carry death in his terrible way To the primitive city, Schenectady. Ere long the dreadful signal is given, A savage yell fills the vault of heaven : He rushes forth with his fiery brand, And wildly waves it in his hand. The depths of the forest re-echoed the cry, Awake'd and bewildered the inhabitants lie. They see the light which the torches reflect, And sally forth their homes to protect; But naught can avail, 'tis the fated day For the primitive city, Schenectady. 'Twas the fated day, and, alas! too late Did they sally forth to arrest their fate. Scarce had the war-whoop died mi the air, Ere the work of death is raging there. Neither age nor youth are spared that night, The savage battle-axe gleams in the light, To every house the torch is applied, The flames shoot upward a golden tide To conduct those souls from their lifeless clay In the primitive city, Schenectady. When the morning sun had mounted the sky, And dispelled the gloom from his burning eye; Where once the snow bad spotless lain, He beheld a black and bloody stain. While the savage his work of death being done, Besmeared with gore his retreat had begun, What few survived that terrible night To the city of Albany had taken their flight, Or as captives of war were carried away From the primitive city, Schenectady. Time has rolled on, and since that day Two centuries h.ave passed away. The primreval fore~ts have disappeared, And in their stead the fruit tree is reared. ·1 he race that roamed 'neath their leafy bower Has fled to the west for ~~rant of power. And o'er the ruins of that city of olcl, There stands another \vhose spires of gold Shall be as a monument ever and aye To the primitive city, Schenectady. Elmer E. Veeder. Prof. to young lady student : \Your 1nark is low and you have only just passed!\ Young Lady: \Oh I 'n1 so glad.\ Prof. (surprised) : \\Vhy? \ Young Lady : \ I do so love a tight squeeze. \-Ex. ALBANY, as an art center, dates back to aln1ost the colonial times, when the city contained but a few thousand inhabitants. So1ne of the early artists that painted in New York and Boston visited Albany and painted portraits ~ere. Miniature painting on ivory was all the style those days. Among the early painters that ren1ainecl for a. tirne in Albany was Mr. Donlop, who afterwards wrote two volumes on fine art; Mr. Henry Ilnman, Mr. R. K .. Brown, Mr. Page, · i who was born in Albany. vVhile Mr. Page was paint- ' ing in Ron1e, Italy, where he resided for a nu1nber of years, he was called the American Titian by the artists, his colors were so beautiful all through his works. Mr. Ezra A1nes was one of Albany's early artists, though not born in the city. He located in Albany when quite young. Mr. Ames was a pupil, for a tin1e, under Gilbert Stuart, in Boston. He painted, in r 8o8, the portrait of Governor George Clinton, that is among the collection of portraits belonging to the city of ' Albany. The portrait is valued very highly, as it is the only original of Governor George Clinton known of, hence its great value. Albany has had fron1 tin1e to titne, for 1nany years back, Art Associations forn1ed, which were well supported by the n1en1bers for a tin1e, but they all went down after a short existence for the lack of patronage, or the n~en1bers seeking other localities to practice their professional calling. On Tuesday evening, N oven1ber 14th last, a nutn- ber of artists-ladies and gentlen1en-asse1nblecl in the library of the Young Ladies' Acaden1y, on North Pearl street. After an hour devoted to drawing fro1n a living model, the 1nen1bers elected Prof. Morgan president; Mr. Leonard Ochtn1an, secretary, and Miss Ida Greenalch, treasurer. Prof. Morgan stated that through the kindness of lYiiss Plytnpton, the trustees of the Acade1ny had granted the artists the use of the library for a studio. After a nun1ber of nan1es being suggested by different 1nen1bers, it was finally decided to nmne the new organization \ The Sketch Club.\ The Secretary sulnnittecl a set of by-laws for the gov- erntnent of the club, which were adopted. The meet- ing nights are Tuesday evening of each week, at half- past seven o'clock. The Il:Utnber of regular n1en1bers is lin1ited to twenty. T'he by-laws do not lin1it the ntunber of honorary n1e1nbers. The 1ne1nbers hope i to give two exhibitions of their works during the winter. Mr. A. W. Twitchell, the artist, was elected an honorary me1nber. Mr. 1\vitchell, having traveled extensively abroad an1ong the great art centers of the old world, has protnised to deliver a course of lectures this winter before the club. The 1nen1bers have a rare ·' .. ,, I f· h

':._l .. 'I ; ;! THE CONCORDIENSIS. --- --~~~------_- __ -_- __ -_- __ - __ ----=------ _- __ - __ -_-_ -~----- - ____ -_-_ -_- treat in store, for Mr. Twitchell is a thorough student in his profession. * * * ----- ------ -- --------------- WHAT HAPPENETH IN THE COLLEGE WO.RLD. DARTMOUTH.-The Dartmoutlz says: We. are ; . the wiser for having seen Mr. Arnoilid, however high or low we 1nay rank him as a lecturer. It was peculiarly fitting that Dartrnouth, founded by an English nobleman .and still vvorking under a charter granted by an English sovereign, should be the first of th_e Colleges to listen to Mr. Arnold.\ Some of the faculty are devoting the1nsetves· to lawn tennis, and apparently with marked success. The meetings of theY. M. C. A. have been largely attended and very interesting. AMHERST.-Matthew Arnold is to lecture before the students. The attendance at College is 3 2 r . The Stu,dent the Wesleyan students, says \the conduct of that Col- lege was ungentlernanly, to say the least. Class feel- 1 ing has so completely disappeared that Freshtnan's l cards are pennitted to adorn their doors without a protest. Two of the secret societies have organized Pipe Associations. T. 0. Sparks, a Williams College senior, was arrested Dec. 10 for stealing a gold watch and a su1n of money from W. A. Phelps, a sophomore, who roomed near him. Failing to get bonds, he was sent to the Pitts- field jail.-N ew York T£1nes. HARVARD.-A monument is soon to be erected to John Harvard, the founder of the College. A grand stand, to cost $ro,ooo, i-s to adorn the new bicycle track. The South is better represented in '8 7 than Class since '67. College library numbers 2oo,ooo volumes. 1n any has been having a little tilt with the Springfield Re- The University of Texas has an endowtnent of publican. $s,zso,ooo and r.,ooo,ooo acres of land. The co- The latter in reviewing an article \Why a Girl I educational systen1 has been adopted and there will Can't Play Lawn Tennis,\ which appeared in the li be no military. Stude1zt not long ago, says : \ Of all newspaper cranks 1 The University was opened last October. Cow- the College-boy article is the 1nost grotesqqe and / boys and greasers will now have a chance to reform . amusing.\ 1 Field day took place on the 27th of November. The Student in a spicy editorial 1nore than holds its I Two hundred and twenty yards dash was made in own with its able adversary. ! 22 r-4 seconds. One hundred yards dash, ro 3-4 I i seconds. UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA.-The printing office of Hare and hounds is becoming a popular sport. the Occident was br<;>ken into Nov. I sth and valuable 1natter stolen therefro1n. The students have offered 41• $roo reward for the arrest and conviction of the guilty parties. Still another fiasco has happened there. On Satur- day night of the sa1ne week a number of thirsty stu- dents entered the vinticultural depf!rtment and dis= posed of valuable sample wines. YALE.-The Literary Magazine, in an article on the stage in America, says that \the first An1erican tra- gedy is yet to be written.'' We would offer a correction to this statement : \Francesca da Ri1nini,\ written by the Hon. George Boker, is an American tragedy, and a great one, too, as proven by the success Lawrence Barrett has met with in playing it. The Glee Club start Dec. 31st for a two weeks' trip in the West. UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA.-Lacrosse is becom- ing popular. University defeated Colu1ubia at foot- ball on the r4th of November. The Faculty have decided that any one cutting a chair or bench will be compelled to buy the same. EVERYWHERE. The Madz'sonz'enis is at loss to know President Arthur's alma 1nater. We will put our contemporary out of pain. \Union claiws that honor.\ Mrs. A T. Stewart is building a College in New York to cost $4,ooo,ooo. It will be the largest in A1nerica, non-s.ectarian, co-educational, and expenses will be put at a very low figure.-Ex. , Minister Lowell was recently elected Rector of St. Andrew's University over Gibson, the Conservative candidate. WrLLIAMS.-Wesleyan defeated Willian1s at foot- Prof. John Sylvester, of John Hopkins University, ball. The Argo, corrunenting upon the conduct of has been elected Savilian Professor of Mathematics in ·-

,;;!' I' • J ' ' . ' .. ; .. ,, !:II . I •I ,, ··t '' ; ' ~ 'j .1 .\ I ,l '' \I . ,, ' i)•' pi; ': .1. ·' THE CONCORDIENSIS. treat in store, for Mr. Twitchell is a thorough student in his profession. * * * -~---~- ~----- WHAT HAPPENETH lN THE COLLEGE WORLD. DARTMOUTH.-The Dartmoztth says: We. are · . the wiser for having seen Mr. Arnold, however high or low we 1nay rank hi1n as a lecturer. It was peculiarly fitting that Dartn1outh, founded by an English nobleman and still working under a charter granted by an English sovereign, should be the first of the Colleges to listen to Mr. Arnold.\ Son1e of the faculty are devoting the1nselves· to lawn tennis, and apparently with marked success. The meetings of theY. M. C. A. have been largely attended and very interesting. AMHERST .-Matthew Arnold is to lecture before the students . The attendance at College is 3 2 I. The Student has been having a little tilt with the Springfield .Re- publican . The latter in reviewing an article \Why a Girl Can't Play Lawn Tennis,\ which appeared in the Student not long ago, says : \ Of all newspaper cranks the College-boy article is the 1nost grotesqqe and amusing.'' The Student in a spicy editorial more than holds its own with its able adversary. the Wesleyan students, says \ the conduct of that Col- lege was ungentle1nanly, to say the least. Class feel- \ ing has so completely disappeared that Freshtnan's cards are pern1itted to adorn their doors without a protest. Two of the secret societies have organized Pipe Associations. T. 0. Sparks, a Williams College senior, was arrested Dec. IO for stealing a gold watch and a su1n of money from W. A. Phelps, a sophomore, who roomed near him. Failing to get bonds, he was sent to the Pitts- field jail.-N ew York Ti1nes. HARVARD.-A n1onument is soon to be erected to John Harvard, the founder of the College. A grand stand, to cost $ro,ooo, i£ to adorn the new bicycle track. The South is better represented in '8 7 than in any Class since '6 7. College library numbers 2oo,ooo volu1nes . The University of Texas has an endow1nent of $5,250,o0o and r.,ooo,ooo acres of land. The co- educational system has been adopted and there will be no military. The University was opened last October. Cow- boys and greasers will now have a chance to reform. Field day took place on the 27th of November. Two hundred and twenty yards dash was made in 22 r-4 seconds. One hundred yards dash, ro 3-4 1 seconds. UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA.-The printing office of Hare and hounds is becoming a popular sport. the Occident was br<;>ken into Nov. rsth and valuable 1natter stolen therefron1. The students have offered '\ $roo reward for the arrest and conviction of the guilty parties. Still another fiasco has happened there. On Satlir- day night of the sa1ne week a number of thirsty stu- dents entered the vinticultural dep~rtment and dis- posed of valuable sample wines. YALE.-rfhe Literary Magazine, in an article on the stage in America, says that \the first An1erican tra- gedy is yet to be written.\ We would offer a correction to this statement : \Francesca da Rimini,\ written by the l-Ion. George Boker, is an A1nerican tragedy, and a great one, too; as proven by the success Lawrence Barrett has met with in playing it. The Glee Club start Dec. 3 rst for a two weeks' trip in the West. WrLLIAMS.-W esleyan defeated Willimus at foot- ball. The Argo, co1nmenting upon the conduct of UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA.-Lacrosse is becom- ing popular. University defeated Colu1nbia at foot- ball on the r4th of Nove1nber. The Faculty have decided that any one cutting a chair or bench will be compelled to buy the same. EVERYWHERE. The Madisonienis is at loss to know President Arthur's alma n1ater. We will put our contemporary out of pain. \Union claiws that honor.\ Mrs. A T. Stewart is building a College in New York to cost $4,ooo,ooo. It will be the largest in A1nerica, non-sectarian, co-educational, and expenses · will be put at a very low figure.-Ex. , Minister Lowell was recently elected Rector of St. Andrew's University over ·Gibson, the Conservative candidate. Prof. John Sylvester, of John Hopkins University, has been elected Savilian Professor of Mathetnatics in .. .

a ed ts- to nd of • In m- a ew In St. . . 111 .. THE CON:CORDIENSIS. 43 ------- ______ -_-:-_-_-----=--=---=--=--=--=-~--~-------.--===-=-=· =-=--====.:-=·==-=--=::::=================------------=---- -----~---=--=-----_ I • the University of Oxford. He will probably accept the appointtnent, and will henceforth be enrolled as a Professor-Emeritus on the staff of John Hopkins. i Thanksgiving evening. Music, readi~1gs and refresh- ! ments made up the progra1nme, wh1ch all who were 1 present greatly enjoyed. : The customary annual receptioR given to the stu- 1 dents by the Y. M. C. A. of Sche11ectady was held at the roo1ns of the latter Friday evening, Nov. 23. The : reception was well attended by ladies, and, as a mat- ; ter of course, the boys passed a pleasant evening. A STOCK FOR ANY CoLLEGE PAPER.-\ Jones, '83, is [ bountiful course of refreshments were served and all · very chun1my with Smith, '84; but Brown, '86, 1 departed well pleased with the entertainment. Prof. Fawcett, of Cambridge University, and Post- ,Inaster of Great Britain and Ireland, has been elected Lord Rector of Glasgow University. His competitor was John Ruskin, the critic. doesn't speak to Robinson, '8 7 -- - so says Green, '8 5 ·\ : There has been a rumor about the colleges for some This is what they call training for the duties and re- ' tilne that the z. 1.JF. fraternity were going to put in a sponsibilities of professional journalism.-Puck. • chapter at Union. This report, however, is still very Revenge is sweet ! We have sent Puck a copy of vague, and we are still in the dark as to its truth. Yet this paper. the prevailing theory is that the chapter has been QuERY: Is the Senator fron1 Louisiana a carpet- organized, but is being concealed until after the senior bagger because he leaves every Friday with a 'satchel? : class election, so that the n1 en wilil stand a chance of A prize given for the best answer. being elected as neutrals, and then will suddenly de- Brass buttons and military caps have captivated the velop into z. lJ'.'s Freshmen. Thirty-five have enlisted. • The following are the subjects for the senior prize --- ----------~-· . ----------- LOCALS. DECEMBER. · Merry Christmas ! Happy New Year! '85's base ball director has refused to serve. The seniors have not yet held their c~ass election. McElwain, '83, made us a short visit the other day. T. C. Lawler, '86, has left college. Mr. Lawler was one of our local editors. Prof. Alexander has received a call to Dr. Booth's church in New York city. Many of the students took advantage of the Thanks- giving recess to pay a visit to their homes. We understand that the marriage of one of our young professors is to take place at an early elate . Prof. Ashmore spent the Thanksgiving recess with Rev. E. Parks, fonnerly rector of Christ's church of this city. Prof. Wells gave the juniors a very interesting and instructive lecture on France and her present relations with China. The class in photography is making good progress. During the Thanksgiving recess several rambles were taken in the surrounding country, and a nu1nber of good negatives procured. An informal reception was tendered to the students who remained at college by the Y. M. C. A., on essays at commencement : Ingha1n-\ The Develop- ment, Social, Industrial, Political, of an Atnerican Town, fro1n its Earliest Scttle1nent,\ or, \The Poetry of Longfellow and that of Bryant, Analyzed and Coin- pared.'' Allen-Subject left to the choice of the ~ writer. The following are the subjects for the junior prize essays : '' England's Relations to Slavery,\ or, \1'he ·Moral Obligation of the Press.'' Some time before Thanksgiving a co1n1nittee con- sisting of one 1nan fron1 each of the several college fraternities gave notice of a ball to be given on the evening of Nov-. 27, in the vVashburne n1ernorial build- ing. In spite of the fact that the night was dark and very rainy, a good con1pany was in attendance and over fifty couple graced the floor. Everything had been arranged in the best manner possible, and danc- ing. was continued to the \wee sma' hours\ in the 1110Tn111g. Military matters are not in a very prosperous condi- tion at Union. Lieut. Hubble called a n1eeting of the upper classes Wednesday, Dec. 6, and earnestly re- quested the1n to enlist. Fro1n the tenor of a letter which he read, it appears that the Secretary of War has ordered hin1 to forward, at the earliest date pos- sible, a report of the arn1s and accoutren1ents in the possession of the college as well as the nun1ber of n1en that are under n1ilitary instruction. The govern1nent has already ordered so1ne of the arms sent away, and he fears that it will order all of the accoutre1nents to be returned if he reports that so few of the whole nu1n- j: ,. )t ,. ri ~ .- '· t 1 I· !· f: ,, I I I i ' f •

ol- el- a to of co- . Ill a In ses St. . ity, Ill .. • ., THE CONCORDIENSIS. 43 ----·--==================:.:==:=-=====-::..:=================================- + 1 the University of Oxford. He will probably accept . Thanksgiving evening. Music, readings and refresh- the appoint111ent, and will henceforth be enrolled as ! ments 1nade up the programme, which all who were a Professor-E1neritus on the staff of John Hopkins. present greatly enjoyed. Prof. Fawcett, of ~cambridge University, and Post- The custo1nary annual reception given to the stu- ·tnaster of Great Britain and Ireland; has been elected i dents by the Y. M. C. A. of Schenectady was held at Lord Rector of Glasgow University. His competitor · the roo1ns of the latter Friday evening, Nov. 23. The was John Ruskin, the critic. , reception was well attended by ladies, and, as a mat- ter of course, the boys passed a pleasant evening. A STOCK FOR ANY C_oLLEG~ P ~E~.-\ Jones, '8 ~· is ! bountiful course of refr~shments were. served and all very chun1my w1th Smith, 84 , but Brown, 86, \ departed well pleased with the entertaintnent. doesn't speak to .Robinson, '87-so says Green, '85.\ 1 There has been a rumor about the colleges for some This i~ ~~~t they call t~ainin~ for ~he duties andre· ! time that the z. lJT. fraternity were going to put in a spons1bihtle~ of professional JOUrnahsln.-Puck. ; chapter at Union. This report, however, is still very .Revenge IS sweet! We have sent Puck a copy of ; vague, and we are still in the dark as to its truth. Yet tlus paper· . . . i the prevailing theory is that the chapter has been QuERY: _Is the Senator fron1 ~ou1s1a~1a a. carpet; \ organized, but is being conceale~ until after the senior bagger because he leaves every Fnday wtth a satchel. 1 class election so that ·the 111 en will stand a chance of A prize given for the b~~t answer. being elected as neutrals, and then will suddenly de- Brass buttons and 1nihtary caps have captivated the velop into z. lJ'.'s Fresh1nen. Thirty-five have enlisted. . . . . • The following are the subjects for the senior pnze LOCALS. DECEMBER. Merry Christmas! Happy New Year! '85's base ball director has refused to serve. The seniors have not yet held their cJass election. McElwain, '83, made us a short visit the other day. T. C. Lawler, '86, has left college. Mr. Lawler was one of our local editors. Prof. Alexander has received a call to Dr. Booth's church in New York city. Many of the students took advantage of the Thanks- giving recess to pay a visit to their homes. We understand that the marriage of one of our young professors is to take place at an early date. Prof. Ashmore spent the Thanksgiving recess with Rev. E. Parks, formerly rector of Christ's church of this city. Prof. Wells gave the juniors a very interesting and instructive lecture on France and her present relations with China . The class in photography is making good progress. During the Thanksgiving recess several rambles were taken in the surrounding country, and a nu1nber of good negatives procured. An infonnal reception was tendered to the students who remained at college by the Y. M. C. A., on essays at con1mencement : Inghan1-\ The Develop- ment, Social, Industrial, Political, of an American Town, fro1n its Earliest Scttlen1ent,\ or, \The Poetry of Longfellow and that of Bryant, Analyzed and Cotn- pared.'.' Allen-Subject left to the choice of the writer. The following are the subjects for the junior prize essays: \England's Relations to Slavery,\ or, ''The Moral Obligation of the Press.'' · Some time before Thanksgiving a co1nn1ittee con- sisting of one n1an fron1 each of the several college fraternities gave notice of a ball to be given on the evening of NOV'. 2 7, in the vV ash burne Ine1norial build- ing. In spite of the fact that the night was dark and very rainy, a good con1pany \vas in attendance and over fifty couple graced the floor. Everything had been arranged in the best manner possible, and danc- ing. was continued to the \wee sma' hours \ in the . morning. Military matters are not in a very prosperous condi- tion at Union. Lieut. Hubble called a n1eeting of the upper classes Wednesday, Dec. 6, and earnestly re- quested them to enlist. Froin the tenor of a letter which he read, it appears that the Secretary of War has ordered hin1 to forward, at the earliest date pos- sible, a report of the arn1s and accoutretnents in the possession of the college as well as the nun1ber of n1en that are under n1ilitary instruction. The govern1nent has already ordered son1e of the anns sent away, and he fears that it will order all of the accoutre1nents to be returned if he reports that so few of the whole nu1n- l:' :i ;-; !' t'· 1~ '· ' t ·' ~ ·'

!·~ ·.'\ I' ... !, ,, . : : 44 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ber of students are taking drill. Therefore, he desires the upper classmen to enlist, for a time at Ieas.t, in order to save the ''Union College 'Cadets \ from oblivion. ! taken. McEncroe, '84, was chosen president, and a ' con11nittee was appointed to draw up and present the following petition to the professor : \While it n1ay appear selfish and presumptuous in us to attempt to Prof. \Yells gave a reception to his senior Gern 1 an influence the action of one in whose judgment we class af his ho1ne Friday evening, Dec. 7 . Every have entire confidence, nevertheless we cannot re- 1ne1nber of the class, who could be, was present, as frain fron1 earnestly requesting you to retain your pro- were several of the profes1ors. Ice crean 1 and cake fessorship in Union College. This is the desire not were served as refreshments, and a pleasant evening only of those who have enjoyed,. but also of those who was passed. Prof. \Veils will sail on the 13 th inst. for ! are anticipating, the benefits of your instruction. We the Bennuda Islands, and his .class took. advantage of ! ~vould not wish it to interfere with what you consider the occasion to bid hin1 farewell and to wish hin 1 a :·your duty, but we cannot suffer your decis.ion to be pleasant and safe voyage. For so 1 ne tilne past Prof. n1ade without expressing the regret which we would \Veils has been troubled with a disease of the eyes, feel at the loss to the college and to the students of a arising fron1 organic disorders, and his physicians have professor which we hold in such lligh esteetn.\ Com- advised hi1n to pass the winter in a n 1 ild clirnate. 1nittee : Dow Beek1nan, '84; Chas. B. Templeton, This explains the voyage which he is about to take. '84 ; Putnam Cady, '85 ; W. P. Landon, '86 ; Irving His ten1porary absence will be a decided loss to the Johnson, '8 7 · college, where he has long and ably filled the chair of Efforts are being made by the base ball directors of Professor of Modern Languages. It is not known who Union and other colleges to reestablish the N. Y. will take his place in his absence, but it will probably Inter-collegiate Base BallL• eague. The University of be given to Prof. L' Atnoreaux. Rochester has written to Union to get her opinion in . That interestin~ and troublesome feature of modern i regard to the matter. ri'his letter has been answered tunes, the Salvation Army, has arrived in the city. 1 and suggestions have been made which are likely to What sin has the city co 1 n 1 nitted that it must be i prove satisfactory to the parties concerned. Cornell, troubled with this pest? The advance guard arrived ! Han1ilton, l\lladison, Syracuse and Hobart will be con- solne days ago and 111 ade its first appearance at the 1 suited and will probably desire to unite with the league. Methodist church prayer 1 neeting, where it freely in- If everything is satisfactory and permission can be dulged in hallelujahs. Subsequently th.e whole anny, obtained of the faculties of the several ·colleges, a which is not very fonnidable, arrived, and consists of meeting will be held, probably at Utica, Friday, Jan. one n1an and two \hallelujah ladies.\ Their regular r rth, 1884, to adopt the rules which are to gov~rn the n1eetings are held in Anthony Hall, ,vhich has been ! league. Friday has been suggested as the date 'so rented for a year, and thus it appears we are destined \ that, if necessary, the n1eeting can be prolonged to to get well sprinkled with their religious nectar. Last I Saturday without interfering with other 1natters. Two Sunday the attendance at their morning meeting was ' delegates fron1 each college will be present at the s1nall, and the an11y started out to dnun up recruits. j1ueeting. We trust that this will meet the universal They first can1e to a halt on Jay street, at its intersec- 1 approval of the students, and that the classes which tion with State, and held a short service, then they have not yet elected t~eir base ?all d~recto~s will marched to the city jail, prayed for the prisoners, and · hasten to do so. If th1s league 1s revived 1t will thence to their barracks. Their meetings are for the i secure better ga1nes for the con1i11g season, both most part attended by the rough elelnent, and at tiines ! physically and lnorally. there is considerable disturbance. Probably Schenec~ : tady will celebrate a second evacuation. day when the i r~ar guard fold their tents and tl}rn their backs to the [ City. . I Ow1ng to the report that we are to be deprived of I Prof. Alexander, who has long been connected with , the college as Professor of Rhetoric and Logic, and is greatly esteen1ed by the students, a 1neeting of the , college was held in the chapel and appropriate action j Why do these Hazers laugh over their Wine? Because Ye Fresh1nan has Set it up and '86 is so1ne ahead. Does Y e Freslunan laugh? No, it is not his Turn to laugh. Is Wine Good to get a Head with? Not when Y e Freshn1an has put Tartar E1uetic in it . Where does Y e Freshn1an stand now? He is some lengths ahead.

a to we re- ro- be on, of Y. of 111 red to on- be a the so to the will will THE CONCORDIENSIS. 45 PERSONALS. _Albanv La\v School. ~ [Communications concerning a~1y of the alumni will be gladly ----------- --- -~-=---:-=~-~---- -- received and inserted in these columns.] HISTORY OF THE ALBANY LAW SCHOOL. J IN 1823, Gen. Fuller was made Adjutant-General of CHAPTER I. the State by Gov. Yates, who was also a Schenec- AT .the time of the organizati?~ ?f Union C~llege, tady man. At the end of his term he returned to 1 n 1 793 ,. there was a divlston of sentunent Madison county and became interested in public im- among its originators as to the proper place of locating provements, which made rapid progress under his its buildings, one party favoring Albany,. the other direction. He was soon elected to the Asse1nbly for Schenectady. two tenns, and was also elected twice a Representa- After considerable discussion it was decided to tive in Congress. His whole life was rnarked by great locate the buildings at Schenectady, to the great dis- activity, and only at an advanced age did he resign appointment of Albanians .. from public service. During the last few years he has Though all parties united in rnaking the college a made his native city his home. His spirit of enter- success, the feeling that Albany should be a seat of prise would not, however, allow him to re1nain idle, learning continued to exist 2nd had much to do with and he was continually alive to the advance1nent and the passage of an act by the legislature in I 85 I incor- best interests of the city. Several years ago he donated porating the University of Albany. The bill as passed the suin of $ro,oou for the purpose of erecting a new gave the board of trustees, appointed by one of its City Hall, which remains as a n1onun1ent to his provisions, power to organize a literary department, me1nory. In the history of Schenectady county by scientific department, a law departlnent, and provided the Ron. John Sanders, the following tribute is paid to that the Albany Medical College, already existing, Gen. Fuller: \The General was ~ever married, so he might, if so disposed, unite with the departments to be can probably only leave to postenty the monulnent of , formed to constitute the University of Albany. his honors, his virtues, his learning, unbending integ- 1 Shor~ly after the passage of the bill, a large Ineeting rity and independent character.\ of members of the bar and other public spirited citi- v· 'Io. Gen. Williatn K. Fuller, for several years the zens was held, at which it was resolved to proceed~ to oldest living graduate of Union, died in this city, the ilnn 1 ediate organization of a departlnent of law. Nov. I 1th, at the age of ninety-one years. He re- It was thought that with departments of law and ceived his early education in the schools of this city, , medicine a nucleus would be forme.d, around which and afterwards entered College. He was adtnitted to other departments would gather. the bar in r 814, and opened a law office in town. The an1 bitions of the founders in this respect have Removing to Madison county, he was elected to many never been realized. The only scientific deparnnent local offices, among which were justice of the peace, ever organized was the Dudley Observatory, and no town clerk, com1nissioner of highways, supervisor. He literary departments were ever founded. was in the arn1y as aid-de-camp, division inspector, It is human nature to look with suspicion on any and was district attorney and judge of comn1on pleas new enterprise, and there were those who foreboded for Madison county. failure for this new departure. ,/ .. , ' 3 I. H on. W. L. Greenly, fonnerly Governor of However, the organization of the department of law Michigan, died in that State recently at an advanced was pushed rapidly forward, and the first course of age. lectures was comn1enced in December, 185 r. In their /8z. W. W. Waddell has resigned his position in circular of that date. the trustees and faculty say\ they the State survey office, at Albany, and entered the have .felt long and painfully the great and almost total Princeton Theological Seminary. want of all the aids so easily furnished, and so very ---·-------- ------- ------------ --- -- essential in enabling the young lawyer to start success- It was on the piazza of the Grand Union, Saratoga: fully in his professional career. While the student of \ How beautifully that woman sings,\ said one lady to medicine and surgery can resort to schools in which another, who was in gorgeous attire and blazing with he can be thoroughly instructed in all the principal diamonds. \Is she a mezzo-soprano?\ \No I branches of his profession, the student of law enjoys gue.ss not. I think she is a Swede,\ replied the other. few opportunities for acquiring anything more than he College students in Siam are allowed two wives. is enabled to obtain by reading in a lawyer's office. This is the Siamese method of hazing.-Ex. This furnishes a very imperfect means either of ren- ·- I ,.- ,. :~ r ); •• ,, I I.

. ' . ~ I • '• THE CONCORDIENSIS. dering him a sound, well-bred lawyer, or a ready, cor- rect practitioner.\ The founders showed the earnestness of their desire to mak_e this department a success, by the appointment qf such men as H·on. Ira Harris, LL.D., Hon. Arnasa J. Parker, LL.D., and Atnos Dean, LL.D., to consti .. tute the first faculty. Shortly after organization, Hon. Reuben H. Wal- worth, LL.D., better known to this generation as the great Chancellor Walworth, became president of the faculty, which position he held until r868. With such a faculty, representing some of the best legal ability of the State, the future prosperity of the department was assured, nor can too much be said in praise of the conduct of Messrs. Harris and Parker, both of whom were then justices of the supreme court, in laying aside personal considerations to assun1e what then seemed thankless responsibilities. For the first three years but one tenn of sixteen weeks was held per annurn, In 1854 it was thought advisable to hold two tenus of twelve weeks each, and this arrangement continued until 1859, since which time three tenus of twelve weeks each have been held yearly. The first class graduated but twenty-three n1en, the second class, fifty, and after that a regular increase until the breaking out of the civil war . President, Hon. Greene C. Bronson; vice-President, Thomas W. Olcott ; secretary, Orlando Meads ; treas- urer, Luther Tucker. In I855 Thomas W. Olcott was president and Orlando Meads· secretary of the board. These gen- tletnen ably discharged their duties in their respective positions until the year r 88o, when upon th~ death of Thomas W. Olcott, Orlando Meads beca1ne president and Marcus T. Hun, secretary. In Thomas W. Olcott the school had an able and generous friend, and to him, perhaps, more than to any other, it owes its present state of prosperity. As before stated, a more able faculty than the one appointed at the organization of the school, could not have been anywhere selected. For seventeen years these three professors continued to exercise the rnany duties incident to the positions they occupied, with unswerving fidelity and an ability which gave the Albany Law School a wonderful'.repu- tation. The course was divided into three hundred and sixty annual lectures, of which Prof. Dean gave one hundred and eighty, and Professors Ha~ris and Parker ninety each. Prof. Harris lectured on practice, pleading and evidence; Prof. Parker, on real estate, wills, criminal i law, personal rights, and domestic relations ; and Prof. Dean, on personal property, contracts, and comrner- ciallaw. . The class of 1856 graduated eighty-five, the class of r858, one hundred and eight, and the class of r86o, THE STUDY OF • one hundred and twenty-nine. At the close of the TO a young tnan looking about ~or a profession, the war the classes were larger than ever before, one class law seems to hold out rnany Inducements. rfhe nutnbering one hundred and fifty members. At one course seems plain before hin1; all that he has to do is time every rank in the anny from private up to briga- to register as a student, read a specified tin1e, cover a dier general was represented arnong the students. i certain amount of ground, make application for ad- 1 • Many there were minus limbs and otherwise dis- rnission to the bar, settle down in some quiet village, figured as the result of their service in the army. The and collect his fees. A very pretty dream, indeed, Law School is justly proud of her roll of honor, for but how is it realized? thereon are inscribed the names of tnany of her sons Our young friend enters some quiet law office as a who went forth to battle for their country at the student, and a volutne of Kent is first recomtnended expense of personal ambition. to his perusal. As he first takes hold of that volume, Of late years the classes are smaller than formerly, I his bosom swells with pride, he feels that he has this not due, however, to any decrease in the efficiency stepped frotn youth to manhood, and that as a student of the means of instruction, but rather to the great of law he has achieved considerable importance in this increase in the number of law schools; for where irt stnall world. He begins the first chapter with a deter- ISS 1 the Law School had no competition, there are j 1nination and confidence that would have startled now over a hundred departments of law in this Napoleon. country. In I 8 5 I Yale and Harvard were the only The leaves turn rapidly ; he feels that he is gaining, law schools of any importance in this country, and : and he soon closes the book for a breathing spell, they, like the Albany Law School have attained a i having finished the first chapter. Being questioned as more than national reputation. \ to what he has been reading, he is startled to find I . The first board of trustees was organized as follows : 1 how little he knows about it .

n- ve of to its nal the lS a ad- a me, has this . pell, d as find THE CONCORDIENSIS. 47 But- perseverantia o#tnz:a vincit, and with more de- term:lnation and considerable \ess confidence he attacks the second chapter. The re~ult of the second read- ing is more disheartening tha31 the first, and our young friend does not have that• sarne degree of confidence and respect for himself which he first entertained. As ti1ne rolls on, his enthpsiasm, confidence·, and often determination, continue to abate, and the young man who has finished the first volun1e is in a position to judge whether or not he wisl1es to becotne a lawyer. The more ti1nid, and those who 1nade a 1nistake in choosing, seldon~ proceed tnuch farther than the sec- ond volume. ting of the General Tenn. Both gentlemen are well qualified to become useful and prominent n1en1bers of the legal profession. Mr. Wade has returned to his home, where he will continue the study of law. Mr. Gervais has returned to Canada, where he will prosecute his studies. His object in taking a term at the Law School was to become familiar with our sys- tern of jurisprudence and to acquire the correct pro- nunciation of the English language. While here he gave close attention to his studies, and the result could not have been otherwise than satisfactory to him. 0:-:tr young friend having cormpleted the first reading . of Kent, looks at hitnself and the result of his labor with a feeling of disgust; a~1d having finished his ·-· ,..,_-~\, · dreaming and laid aside his enthusiasm and confi- dence, he again reads the work with greater satisfac- 1'he many genial traits of our departed friends will not be soon forgotten, and they have our well wishes for success in whatever fields they labor. LAW CLUBS. N - EAR the close of last term the attendance at .. most of the various Clubs was exceedingly tion. An acquisition of the principles of law requires 1 I small. On this ac<;:ount one of the Clubs ceased to close application, thorough work and great care in the '\ exist, and if the term had lasted 1nuch longer, it is selection of proper authors. . The young man who has acquired his profession, 1 fair to conclude that others would have been suspended. : Vve ought to be more prompt in our attendance at does not find it his first\' duty to collect his fees. There I these courts this term, and give all the assistance we is the hard beginning, the doubtful success, the years 1 can in order to n1ake the1n successful. of waiting, ere he can catch the first faint impression 1 . . . . f h . tl f 1 d I tl fi t f . t A large nlaJonty of the graduates of thrs grand old o rs you 1 u rea1n. n n~any cases, 1e rs au1 1 · f th 1 d f · institution have been and are successful in the legal s 1 gns o . e ear y · reat-ns o success are never seen. I· h In some cases the enthusiastic youth, having reached profession, and wh!? B~ca~se t ey were taught the h d t · · b t 't · th h th h' 1 I de:ep and perplexmg pnncrples of theory and prac- rnan oo , at an1s em1nenc.e, u 1 1s · roug · ·· .e · 1g 1- I . · . · h' f t - 1 t1ce at the sarne tlme w 1le here. way o 01. .. Fro1n the dissertations of our learned professors we Ere taking up the study of law, a young 1nan should obtain theory, and in our legal courts we are taught carefully estimate his chances of success, remeinber- the rules of practice. ing that \ Life is real, life is earnest,\ no n1atter on In our Clubs .. we learn to argue, plead and speak; we bring cases and try the1n by jury, and in this way we learn to unfold cases in the proper 1nanner. what line the battle is fought. THOSE WHO HAVE LEFT US. WITH the. close of last term, Messrs. Durand, · Frankhn, Morg~n, Samson, Scott, Wade and Gervais severed their connection with the class. Mr. Durand has obtained a position in a large office in Hornellsville, N. Y. Mr. Franklin was in poor health and intended to Every beginner is 1nore or less bashful when he rises to speak, and if we do not get rid of this titnid- ity now, it will be very embarrassing for us when we appear for the first ti1ne in court. In these clubs we can overthrow the nervous burden which we all feel while speaking ; we can learn to becon1e self-possessed and to think on our feet. The benefits to be derived fro1n these legal organi- zations are invaluable, and for the good of us all we would ask our classtnates to give a full and hearty sup- port to our legal Clubs . leave at the close of the term. His departure was hastened by news of the hopeless illness of his sister. , We hope ~is native Maryland air will prove beneficial 1 to his health, and that he will be able to con1plete his course in the Law School next year. Mr. Morgan has gone to his ho1ne in Wisconsin, REORGANIZATION OF THE LAW CLUBS. where he will make application for admission to the bar. The various Law clubs have been reorganized for Messrs. Scott and Samson were muong the success- the ensuing term as follows : ful applicants for admission to the bar at the.last sit- l Smith Debating Club.-President, George E. Gar- \' ·~ •' ,. l v .. r I o.' •' ' . 'f, I,

THE CONCORDIENSIS. land; vice-president, J a1nes L. Weeks; secretary, J. W. Paddock; treasurer, E. A·. Gifford. Kent Club.-President, A. W. Ray: vice-president, W. H. Foster; secretary, D. J. O'Sullivan;. treasurer, A. C. Steck. Eureka Moot Court Club .. - President, E. B. Simonds; vice-preside11t, R. H. McMahon; secretary, D. H. Sullivan; financial secretary, E. A. Gifford; Executiz'e Committee.-W. S. Hulslander, W. Gould, R. I{. McMahon. In most cases the old officers were re-elected, which shows that their efforts in the past were not una ppre- ciated. PERSONALS .• '53· Martin Sackett is located in Buffalo. '53· Hon. Worthington Frothingham resides 1n Albany, where he is United States Co1n1nissioner. '53. Wheeler H. Peckhan1 was recently appointed District Attorney of New York by Gov. C_leveland. '75· C. S. Dudley, of Newport, ICy., is acting · Judge Advocate. 1 '7 5· A. V. R. Patterson is practicing in Stockton, ) Cal., where he was elected Judge of the Superior : Court in 1879· '75· W. P. Rudd is practicing in Albany, N. Y. H;e is a 1ne1nber of the finn of Harris & Rudd. '82. F. J. Fort, of Newark, N. J., is Judge of the District Court. BRIEFS. ' THE holiday vacation begins : tends to Jan. 8th. Dec. 2 rst and ex- Several new names have been add·ed to our class ' roll this term. George ·E. Mosse is at his home, Clayton, Ky., seriously ill with typhoid fever. We wish every officer and student of Union Univer- sity a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. '53· W. S. Hevenor is practicing in Albany, being ' a member of the firn1 of Van Alstyne & Hevenor. 'Messrs. Hale and McMurray, of Union College, were an1ong the visitors at Moot court on Friday last. All \ the boys \ are 1nore at ease since the examina- tions are over, and are now looking forward with much pleasure to the Christn1as holidays. '53· Hon. Charles A. Fowler is practicing in Kingston, N. Y. He has served in the State Senate several years. '57· Hon. A. X. Parker, of Potsda1n, N.Y., rep- resented his district in the Senate from r868 to r871. '64. Hon. A. J. Parker, Jr., is practicing in Albany. 1 Mr. P. is an ex-Assen1bly1nan. We were recently favored with a visit. from Presi- dent Potter, who, in a few well-chose!1 and witty re1narks created a very favorable impression among the students. · Lectures for winter tenn- By Prof. Stnith : Con- tracts of Sale ; Agency; Partnership; Negotiable In- strulnents. By Prof. Learned.: Equity Jurisprudence (continued) and Trial of Causes. By Prof. Sickels : '66. Hon. Judson Cross is practicing at Minne- apolis, Minn. Mr. Cross was Mayor of Lyons, Iowa, in r8 7 r. He is now City Attorney of Minneapolis. • . The Law of Evidence. • '68. Hon. V. P. Abbott, of Gouverneur, was Special Judge of St. Lawrence county fro1n 1875 to 1 I 88o. He is now Surrogate. We have heard it suggested that the students of the Law School go in a body to visit Union College on so1ne Friday afternoon. This is an excellent sugges- '6 7. Hon. N. S. Gilson, Fon du Lac, Wis., was elected Justice of the Fourth Judicial District of Wis- consin in 1878. 1 tion, and we doubt not that any who go will feel amply repaid. There should be more intercourse between students of the different departipents. '69. C. H. Lee, Racine, Wis., is in active practice. ! He was District Attorney in T 87 3-4. · '69. R. J. Fisher. Jr., is Chief Exan1iner in the Patent Office at Washington. '70. H. H. Keith is practicing at Sioux Falls, Dakota. '71. N.Y. '73· ... H. J. Mead has a large practice in Candor, He was District Attorney from 1879 to r882. Charles H. 1\tfills is practicing in Albany. THE POTTER DECENNIAL PRIZES. pRESIDENT POTTER offers three prizes of $ 2 o, $30 and $5o, respec'tively, to be known as the \Potter Decennial Prizes,\ and to be awarded for the three best essays. The subject of the essays as announced is, \ Would it be safe and wise to abrogate the right of trial by jury in· civil causes; if not, in what respect, if any,

. :tng :on, . nor Y. the ex- :lass Ky., ver- ege, last. . Ina- mch . resi- vitty tong ~ .... on- In- ~nee :els : • · the eon :ges- nply veen $20, ; the l for ould 1 by any, THE CONCORDIENSIS. 49 1night our present jury ~ysten1 be improved.\ The essay 1nust be written on alternate pages of letter paper and 1nust not exceed in length twenty folios of one hundred words each. The essays n1ust be delivered at }east six weeks be- fore the close of the tenn, to the Dean, enclosed in an en.velope bearing on the outside the inscription: \Pot- ter Decennial Prize Essay,\ also the nom tie plztme of ! the writer. This 1nust also be accom.panied by :a s1naller envelope containing the real nan1e of the , writer. It is hoped the students will all enter the con- test and 1na.ke the object of the prize a success. MY PENATES. sING not to me the Household Gods Of beaten brass or carved stone, Placed o'er the hearth with glazed eyes To guide live men of mind and bone. My Household Gods I typify In gentler forms of every day; As true, though ever·silent friends Whose mission 'tis to cheer, not S\l\ ay. My briar pipe rests on its shrine Half hid in heel of amber weed; Belo·w, my books with service worn, The best of friends, when friends we need. And a sweet face- a girl, I know,- Smiles on me from an oaken frame; These are Penates modernized, Though as of olcl, they cheer the same. He'd been waltzing. with his host's ugly elder daughter, and was in a corner repairing dmnages. Here he was espied by his would-be papa-in-law. ''She is the flower of n1y family, sir,\ said the latter. \So it see1ns,\ answered the young n1an. \Pity she con1es off so, ain't it?\ he continued, as he essayed another vigorous rub at the white spots on his eoat sleeve. THE kid that comes to Berkeley here, Just tall above your knee; And passes all the exes through- A lz'ttle fresh is he. And then the big six-footer, too, Who wags his tongue so fn~e; And talks so loud for you to hear- A little fres!t is he. It is said that an over confident Butler 1nan is wearing a straw hat through the winter, in pay1nent of an election debt. It is expected to show which way the wind blows. Al han\r lVfedical College. DISCIPLINE . IN discussing this subject I an1 well aware that\ I · n1ust be especially watchful lest I step frmn its proper boundaries and bring in sorne thoughts which clo not have a direct bearing on that particular phase of it which I n1ost wish to present; and yet: it seen1s to n1e tl1at all the pleasant fields n1ust be n1ore or less traversed in order that I 1nay be able to select enough, I trust, of the finer, rnore beautiful sprigs and flowers of thought to n1ake the ultin1ate bouquet one of nice contrasts and proportions. Discipline lies at the foun- dation of all well-ordered institutions, both hun1an and divine-n1ade the corner stone in the divine in that early day when Aclan1 ·and Eve were roa1ning about the Garden of Eden, plucking, not sprigs and flowers, but fru.it-forbidden fruit. \Ay there 's the rub ! \ for ever since that ti1ne 1nen's minds have been per- verse, and were it not for discipline, noble discipline, there would be 1nany more \ruined hopes and blasted .fortunes\ than to-day. Now why should this guardian angel be placed over us? I have inti1nated that because our 1ninds are perverse ; well, this 1night be 111ade to cover the whole ground but for the fact that we have a n1oral nature to train up in the way it should go ; surely the n1ind can, if it will, drive the 1nan into training the n1uscle, the nerve, in a word, the physical 1nan; it can do this, even so that there shall be a certain an1ount of order about the development, as the sn1ith who displays in ' his arms great, wondrous strength, the pedestrian in his legs the faculty of taking long and rapid strides, or the pianist in his fingers that almost superhuman agil- ity and control of 1notion. These exan1ples exhibit not only development but order as well, and the whole as being brought about by discipline, to be sure, but of a ki1id quite unlike that used in schooling the 1noral nature and fron1 an altogether different source ; that of the former partaking rather of the ab me, and is engaged in rnan-like-1naking; the latter is rather the ab deo and n1ore especially concerned in the Christ- like-making, if I 1nay be pern1itted to coin these ex- pressions. 1~he fonner is calculated to give a n1an physical and intellectual sway a1nong his fellow n1en ; the latter to n1ake hin1 1neek, lowly and obedient be- fore his God, thereby rendering the dain1s which society has on hin1 n1ore secure. It will then be seen that discipline is directed to- ward the physical, 1nental and 1noral n1an, that the l . \I \ ··' '. ~· \ \. r > I I' • I. . _., '

so TfiE CONCORDIENSIS. object of discipline is to preserve order and develop same manner, and it will reveal to you a structure as the man, and the right result of discipline is gained wonderful. A rain drop wiil divide the sun's ray into only when we have the object, in its broadest and 1nost ' its n1any beautiful colors, and yet with its fellow drops righteous sense, finnly within our grasp. I it will be utilized into our greatest factor of con1merce. Let us go back to the n1ind, which n1ay do things Are the iron filings the chips of the workshops? \if it will.'' Here an mnount of training :is needed Gather the1n together in the furnace and they will be which is neither wholly ab me or ab deo; it n1ust con1e united into as perfect a bar as the one fron1 which they from the world, fron1 those people con1posing the were severed. The pieces of cloths fro1n the loorn or con1munity in which we live, from the parents, guard- gathered from elsewhere, have tl1en.1 undergo a pro- ians and our teachers. Herein is where the Medical cess and they will furnish a n1aterial necessary to the Colleges of our country not only do not co1ne up to intellectual world, or the seed grains lost fro1n the their duty, but 1nake no pretence at discharging the garner, how far could such waste be scattered ·and still san1e. I know that this charge should be laid rather leave n1ore to scatter? at the door of\ a tin1e-honored custon1\ than at that , What is it that 1nakes the n1an? Is it one step, one of the coHeges, but, nevertheless, I do think that if I stride into existence? Who fail or fall fron1 their there is any one place in our educational system where positions? Those that walk here on earth with their reforn1 is needed this is that place. And, furthern1ore, heads arnong the stars. A 1nan can't stretch hitnself I am aware that there are those who say: You have beyond his length or out of the influence of his under- entered a Medical College, we regard you as being a standing. To be sure, it seems as though Fatne lifts a n1an now, and the inference is no restraint is needed. man up so1netin1es by his ears, but she expects himself Well, I do not wish to be understood as asking that to keep his feet fron1 dangling, by a pedestal of his medical students be 111ade to \toe the 1nark\ and re- own building. How will he do it? Not by counting ceive a certain number of strokes on the hand for a seemingly sn1aH things as trifles, but by his character, n1isde1neanor, as district-school boys were 1nade to do and these very things n1oald and give it its strength in \very ancient times,\ but think there should be a and finnness; as aton1s of moisture creep in to nour- supervisory head of the institution, by who1n all stu- ish the rootlet i1nprisonecl 111 a crevice, imparts to it dents should be held accountable for their acts and that strength and force that one day shall rend its bar- the 1nann.er in which they spend their tin1e ; and as a rier of rock. further answer to that argu1nent will say that during a There is nothing that is a trifle, for there is nothing certain famous march to .the sea, the soldier was sub- of itself, and our careless11ess of the knowledge of this ordinate to Custer, Custer to Shennan, Sherman to fact leads us into many errors, and until we recognize Grant, Grant to the President of the United States, this in our actions and thoughts we cannot attain that and he in turn was held accountable for his words and perfect character desirable in a 1nan. Each action · acts by the people of a great and 1nighty country, as drops into its place and either strengthens or weakens well as by his God, and does anyone for a mo1nent ; with equal force, and if we fail to act in the right time, think, 111uch less say, that Abraham Lincoln was not 1 1 thinking it of no account, the place that needed it is a n1an? S. E. A., '85. always etnpty, nor can we with one bold stroke wipe i M ANY are the things that we carelessly notice \ about us because we think of then1 as trifles, I and n1any are our momentary actions thoughtlessly I heeded because we think of the1n as insignificant. What things are trifles? Is a piece of flag stone? Think a mon1ent ; has it not taken ages to cornpress it in its forn1? Is it a tree or shrub? Look at its structure, and see how its circulation draws itself up- ward with a force overcoming the earth's great attrac- tion. Look at a section of a blade of grass when you can diverge its rays so as to 1neet your field of vision, and see how its n1eshes of fibers are interlaced, coin- bining both beauty and strength, or an insect in the out n1any of the little blernishes. Though we may seeln- ingly cover then1, they remain; and when truth comes and shows us what things are, which she surely does in every n1an's life, then we find that ''worth n1akes the man and the want of it the fellow.\ B. J. W., '84. THE impression at large see1ns to be that we have very meagre clinical advantages here ; that there is a dearth of 1naterial. Let us ask what are the bene- fits to be derived fron1 a clinic, anyhow? Why are these clinics held? Is it alone for the benefit of the poor? Obviously not; for this laudable and humane result could be obtained without nlaking a show of the

e as into rops :ce. >ps? 1 be they 1 or pro- the the still one their their nself :der- fts a nself f his 1ting cter, ngth lOUr- to it bar- hing this ;n1ze that ::tion · kens :nne, it is w1pe ~e1n- )mes does lakes have there >ene- r are f the nane ~f the THE CONCORDIENSIS. shock when approached on. the subject. In conclu- sion, we will venture the assertion that the almost entire class will unite in thanking Prof. Ward for his kindness h1 appointing the quizzes. unfortunate .. Is it in o~der th_at a display may be rnad_e I of great medical or surgical s1nll? We know not how It \ may be with other schools, but we are certain that our '\ professors are too 1nanly. to pern1it themsel~es .. to stoop I to a useless show of theu knowledge or sk1ll, great as \ they may be, and, if such were the case, their tin1e is , , puT hiln up 1· Put hi1n up ! \ is frequently heard too we11 occupied with other and n1ore noble things to of late during. inter-lecture n1o1nents, and pennit them to do such frivolous acts. Hence, by the \ him \ who happens to be the cause of this \exclusion we reach this result. The object of outcry, soon finds hitnself in the possession of two clinics is to give students a practic~l knowledge .of factions, with diametrically opposed purposes, one those branches which they pursue and we can but being to keep hin1 where he is, and the other to\ put believe that, as conducted here, they 1nost surely ac- him up\ where he belongs, and when, after much per- con1plish that result. Prof. Bigelow's n1ethod at his sistent extension of upper and lower extre1nities by medical clinic is to take one case and give. it an ex- these conflicting forces, one or the other acco1nplishes haustive study-to devote the whole hour to it, if need its object, the passive \bone of contention\ feels as if be-and he seeks to n1ake each student the diagnos- it had increased longitudinaUy and been drawn through tician, the prescriber-in short, the physician of that I a\ knot hole.\ To the rnind of a stranger viewing one particular case. This is his 1nethod, even though ~ 1 of these \happenings'' jt 1nust appear SOlnewhat·bar- there 1nay be dozens of patients in the waiting-room, barons. But, according to students' ethics, there are than. which there could surely be no better; and we I different ideas held. First, that one has the right to are happy to say that the san1e plan is carried out by sit anywhere he wishes in the an1phitheatre; second, the professors in surgery, so far as it is practicable in , that the older students have the precedence to the this branch. But there really is no lack of material; I better situations by 1nore time spent here ; and, hence our clinics are n1uch fuller this than they were last 1 the experiences above described. On consideration, year, and new ones have been established at St. Peter's it must be admitted that of the two ideas the latter is Hospital, presided over by Prof. Hun, and at Child's right. But there is ~nother item of interest, in that as Hospital, under charge of Professors Balch and Mer- rnedical students have but little ti1ne for physical exer- rill and Dr. Trego. Therefore, we say, let hin1 who cise, they do, however, get it in these little episodes ; says \go to New York for clinics,\ consider well be- and in closing we would only ~aution them to ren1en1- fore he speaks. ber that the victin1 is but hmnan, and that \too n1uch\ pROF. WARD, acting on the s~ggestion in the last · issue of THE CoNCORDIENSIS, kindly appointed extension is like \to·o n1uch\ of anything else. pROF. HAILES' lectures on Histology still continue to be attended with unabated interest by 1st and 2d and son1e 3d year students. Tuesday n1orning, the 4th, he comn1enced : \ I am to speak to you, gentle- n1en, this n1orning on the circulatory systetn, beginning with the heart, going by the large arteries to the s1nal1, through the capillaries and hon1e by the veins,\ and : which he did in his usual graphic n1anner, illustrat- ing with his rapid but conscientious, scientific chalk sketches, which are of such great value to his listeners, to the satisfaction of all. Thursday rnorning his lec- ture was principally on the ly1nphatics, and his re1narks of the stricture of the thoracic d net of Dr. Calvin Ed- a Quiz in Practice on Thursday, Dece1uber 6 (which was such th~t no one could take exceptions. to), one ' well worthy the name, and Prof. W deserves the unanimous thanks of the class in so quickly con1ply- ing with the suggestion offered hy the editor (although the editor at that time was not requested to do so by the class). vVe will say on our own credit that Prof. Ward's manner of quizzing 1neets with the hearty ap- proval of the class; and by the way in which it was conducted, none could fajl to have benefited by it, and will be better prepared to grasp the subjects lec- tured on hereafter. Right here, we will say in regard to the subject now in hand (that of heart troubles), it is one that old practitioners are very apt and anxious to trip up n1en young in the profession, and which is not always a difficult task to accon1plish; yet after the quizzes, such as we had on Thursday last, we all will feel tnuch better prepared to 1neet and stand .the 1 son gave us a fitting opportunity of quoting from the · introductory address of the course of I 87g-'8o, deliv- ered by Prof. Van Derveer, as we think the quotation one of special interest to all 1nedical readers of this paper: \Right gladly would I mention the particu- larly special and separate speCimens of great interest .. \ !

THE CONCORDIENSIS. -- -- ·-- -- ------------- -- ------ in this vast collection. To speak in detail of the life and death of Calvin Edson, M. D., whose body occu- i I pies the case standing in the southwest corner of the n1useun1, would be an address in itself. In early life, while in full health for a considerable tilne, he prac- ticed 1nedicine, until, for son1e hidden reason, he began t<;> e1naciate, and at last, in order to continue the sup- port of his wife and children, he was con1pelled to exhibit hi.mself as the living skdetoq, clad in tights to show fully his actually bony fonn. While in Albany, some tin1e previous to his death, he paid a visit, in company with Drs. J. H. Annsby and Alden and Henry March, to the n1useun1, in which he was very n1uch interested. When asked what he would do with his body after death, he ren1arked that he would not object to its being placed here, carefully prepared for exhibition. Not long after his death occurred ; and if I were to give you an account of the contest that ensued between this institution and the New York col- leges to gain possession of his body, it would seen1 incredible. I can only sc,ty that Dr. Alden March, aided by an old and tried friend of the college, Mr. Arnold Nelson, a neighbor of Dr. Edson, finally over- carne all obstacles, a,nd to-day this 1nuseun1 has proof in this body of the loss of flesh that will result fro1n the closure of the thoracic duct. The vicera alone were re1noved, and with the exception of son1e change of color you see hin1 to-day with the skin stretched over his bony skeleton as he appeared for years previous to his death.\ S AYS Haven : \We reme1n ber not everything that occurs, but only that to which we attend.\ * * * Medical students would do well to think of this when lectures are going on, and not only give the professor their presence, but their attention as well. It is very easy to sit listlessly thinking of nothing, and at the smne time be taking in nothing, and for the ti1ne spent get just nothing. It takes a man the first half · of a lifetime to learn a thing_, and the last half to learn that he knows that thing. Study acquires facts- thought educates. LOCALS. WEDNESDAY, November 28th, at r P. l\I., oc- curred the usual presentation of a Thanks- giving dinner to \Jitn in the a1nphitheatre. Mr. Melick, '84, addressed \ I irn \ as follows : \Mr. Boom : The con11nittee appointed by the college to , procure for you this Thanksgiving collation being : bashful and retiring in their dispositions, and not hav- .. .. ing the requisite amount of ' sand' to say a few words to you, have asked me to do so for them and for the college at large. As I also am one of the same disposition, and as they, just at the close of the last lecture, inforn1ed 1ne :vhat was expected of tne, you c·an see· the predican1ent into which they have placed me and can i1nagine accordingly that I have very little to say. You are aware, of course, that to-lnor- row is a national day of Thanksgiving. While as men1bers of this great nation we have n1uch to be thankful . for, yet I think that in this little world of our own we also have cause for rejoicinga Though we have n~et a reverse in the loss of one of our profess- ors-a n1an whotn we all adn1ired and respected, yet, in a material sense especially, we have .gained 1nuch. We have a new dissecting and a new physiological roo1n, and throughout the whole building have new in1provernents been n1ade, giving us greater advan- tages for study and greater facilities for the pursuit of knowledge. In these improve1nents we feel you have lent a helping hand, for which we thank you. But we do not ask you to accept these few gifts for this, but we do ask you to receive and accept· thern as a token of the good feeling we have towards you and of the truth we feel expressed in these lines of Fope : 'Worth 1nakes the 1nan; the want of it the fellow.' I do not know as I have anything further to say than again to ask you to accept these few things in\ the spirit with which they are given, and to trust that when you arise fron1 your Thanksgiving dinner you 1nay not arise like the little boy, at his Thanksgiving dinner, with the 'pie' side en1pty, but that you 1nay be con1pletely filled not only with these goodly viands, but with as kindly feelings to\varcl us as we have toward you.\ Jim thanked the boys in fitting tenns, and stated \that he had been presented with a Thanksgiving dinner eight tin1es, and only two of then1 had been done in a proper n1anner, this being one of the two.\ The ex- ercises closed by the boys leaving for their dinners after much applause. ~ J and Bl were in the an1phitheatre one afternoon with two girls. One of the1n was 1nuch in- dignant because Jin1 inforn1ecl them that there would be no lectures that afternoon. Bl infonned }in1 that they were St. Agnes' girls, whose rna's were here, and allowed them to go out. Jim says that Bl 1s great on the mash this year. Prof. Hailes has n1oved into his new house at r 9 7 Han1ilton street, and it will pay any student to call on the Professor, not only on account of the benefit de- rived from intercourse with hiln, but to see his admir-

you as be of we yet, ical of ave we but the not to . nse the as a ex- one . 111- }in1 ere, IS 1 97 on de- THE CONCORDIENSIS. . 53 abl:y arranged establislnnent, thereby encouraging the student to better work here, as he thinks of what he _1nay have in. the future. James A. Flynn, '\84· has for the·past few· days been confined to his room: with a slight attack of .fever. Rev. W. S. Davis, of the .Reformed Church, on Madison avenue, lectured to the n1.edical students Ella has gone fro1n Ranch No. 10, and the student rnourneth. . Sunday evening, December 16. Subject: \The Cun1mings, '84, and Flint, '85, have returned to college. House <?f Life, and How to Occupy It.'' T in a saloon playing pool. Enter 1nessenger There are one hundred and forty-five 1natriculants to elate. boy, who states that there is a gentleman in T · 's room waiting to see him. T pays boy 10 cents, goes to his rootn and finds-·· no one. One Sunday night in Noven1ber, J , L-- R , and B becon1ing obnoxious to the col- ored n1e1nbers of a church which they were attending, were accordingly \ bounced.\ Flynn, '84, spent Thanksgiving recess in New York and Philadelphia, took in son1e lectures in both places, and ca1ne back with son1e additions to his store of books. Monday, November 26, the students. were honored by Prof. Ward introducing Dr. Partridge, Professor of , Obstetrics in the New York Post-Graduate School. One of the seniors, whose acutnen of perception goes so far, says that he is able to distinguish fron1 whom a telegran1 co1nes on seeing its direction. An organ grinder increased his exchequer last Tues- day afternoon during laboratory hours by grinding out : his n1usic under the college windows. Carroll, '.8 5, was a guest of the Burgesses Corps during its recent visit to New York, and participated ! I in the Evacuation Day exercises. I I We are sorry to note that Fred. Easton, '85, leaves i I on Thursday~ the I 3th, preparatory to a final courc;e in · the Long Island College. Son1e wonder what K and T have done 0. • with their 1nash book since they m.oved fron1 their old ' quarters on Jay street. Surgical clinics will now be conducted by Prof. Ward, Prof. Van Derveer having retired on the first of this month. Dr. Hun's clinics will be held in the Albany Hos- pital until the new one at St. Peter's Hospital is co1n pleted. We are glad to see that Brown, '85, has recovered from his recent illness, and is again attending lectures. Nine o'clock to aU but students. '' Glass Eye.\ Rulison. A1bany College of Pl1a~1nacy. MOST, perhaps all, of the students attending the · ·courses of lectures in the College of Pharn1acy are anxious to succeed in the profession they have chosen, and they picture to thetnselves a l1a.ndsorne drug store, a constant stream of cugtomers~ and then1selves the ~hining lights, the lords of all they survey. rrhey have passed their periods of clerkship and are graduates. Th~ theory and the practice are all their's, and they feel perfectly well qualifi.ed to carry on the business of dr9ggist. Some never advance further, and re1nain clerks all their lives; to others the oppor- tunity occurs a~1d they embark itl business, with varied results. Out o,f, say twenty, how 1nany becon1e really, professionally 4nd financially successful? Very few . No n1atter how deep our phannaceutical knowledge n1ay be, or ho.w skillfully we may n1ix the 1110st difficult cotnpound, we can never, in after life, look back on ' our work with solid satisfaction, unless we have pros- pered financi~Hy as well as professionally. It is to be regretted that the knowledge as ordinarily acquired by the clerks in retail drug stores, pertains ahnost exclusively to 1uechanical work. Work, which, while requiring, no doubt, a scientific education to the proper perfonnance, 'is only one of two forces which, when con1bined together, places the projector in the foretnost ranks and increases his sphere of usefulness. The other force is thrift. A thrifty adtninistration of business can only be attained by careful and econon1- ic attention to all the details. Strive to so system- atize your business that each particular article, whether of stock or fixtures, shall render its account to you in a percentage of profit. Let nothing escape your notice. Get all you can and take the best care and make the best use of what you get. Your percentage of profit lies in the use you put a thing to. Every thing has its use; let that use be the highest. Still, ;_,.· f ~' 'I . ' . ~ . '

' -,~ ' . ·. J ·11 I ~:, ~ ::·. ',fJ ··~;; > ·t· ·~ j • ' ~ :.r~ ~: :i ·. ·I :: ;, •!'t' ., '1: ' j· ·:· ' ·~ •I '!·r 'I 54 THE CONCORDIENSIS. you cannot use your 1nerchand ise to the best advan- tage unless you are at aU t~irnes accurately infonned of what you have and how you got it. In other words, : what your stock in trade consists of, what it cost you, and how best to dispose of it. To do this the keeping of proper books of acco~nt, the- acqilire1nent of busi- ness, habits, and rigid econon1y 'in business and personal expenses, is of the highest importance. ·Study your business as you study your dispensatory or phanna- copcei an,d success is assured. THERE is trouble ahead ~or the National College of Pharn1acy at \Vashington, D. C. The Col- lege having adn1itted as a pupil Mr. 0. M. Atwood, a colored man, all but eight of its class of forty-six students rose in a body and under the leadership of . the president of the college association left the hall. · This, we believe, is the fi.rst ti1ne in the history of pharn1aceutical education in the United States where sex or color has been 1nade a basis for discrimination as to who should have the advai1tage of educatio:t;1 in pharmacy, and in this in'>tance, be it observed, the college authorities are not at fault. It is asking a great deal of those ..... wlio control the school that they should refuse to accede to the de1nands of the seceding stu- dents, and it is an additional source for regret that such an affair should have occurred in the capital of a nation that recognizes 110 distinction of race in ci vii rights-that is to say, it was so before the hoodlu1n deCided that \ the Chinese n1ust go.\ We hope, ' however, that no concession will be 111ade to such a spirit as these thirty-eight students have shown, and that the College will be able to convince thetn by fair argun1ent 'and n1oderate action that civil rights and social rights are quite different n1atters and that their course is utterly unworthy of honorable gentletnen.- A1Jteri'ca1Z Druggist. WE learn with regret that Messrs. Wheeler and Sautter will be unable to continue as quiz-rnas- ters, as their business will not allow them the time. The senior class have adopted a plan by which the Inen1- bers of the class act as quiz-n1asters on the different evenings. If every student performs his duty as well as he can when it is his turn, the quizzes will continue to be '3.11 in1portant feature of our course. ' CLIPPINGS. The next irn provetnent in education is to be the teaching of both sides of the satne question. At the close of tlqe literary exeTcises of the Phi Beta Kappa soci€ty at· Harva;rd, Mr. Willian1 Everett read a poem, fron1 \Vhich we take the following : Q UR next improvement!. \Vho shall say? Our next grand change, to sweep away ( >ur last grand change hut one. I .et uur young sister, fair Corneil, The last supreme improvement tell, To vl'in all men's affection. ln '' Pol Econ,\ as students say, Shall two prufessors point -her way- One free trade, one protection. One shall the people's comfort show, In 1naking naught that does not grow, Already made befure 'em. And one shall feed our infant's gu 1 p -- Pig iron, tin wai:e, and wood pulp, With sixty ad valorem. \tVhy not this principle apply To every art beneath the sky That students learn at college? And rival heads of rival schools Set up to call each other fools In every branch of knowledge? In social science, Mr. X. Shall urge the claims of either sex To compound recitation. vVhile M.r. Y. as stift as bricks, Fttlmine his ipse Morgan Dix~ it on co-education. Twin theologians shall COlltencl·- One that salvation's hopes depend On general perdition. And one declare that love divine His colleague only shall consign 'To such a dire condition. And so let equal chance be given Of every study under heaven To learn both sides together. And every student, nothing loth, Put down his naRle to go to both, And never go to either. • For 1nany kinds of throat trouble doctors reconl- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=· mendapipe. Theymeanth~you~~l sclectape~ _ Sportsrnan- (after n1issing·l~is tenth rabbit)-\ I '11 tell you what it is, Bagste:r, your rabbits are a11 two inches too short hereabouts.\ fectly pure, daintily fragrant tobacco, like Blackwell's Durhan1 Long Cut, and get relief that way by toning the metnbranes into new life and activity.

