'1\\ ·HE. CONCORDIENSIS v·oL. VI. ScHENECTADY, N. Y., FEBRUARY, 1883. No. \l. PuBLISHED MoNTHLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION CoLLEGE. Entered at the Post Qffi.ce at Schenectady a:; ~econd Cla~s ~'latter. ---------------------. - --- -· --- ------- EDITOR-IN-'CHIEF- jOHN R. HARDING, '83. Literary Depai'tment, Athletic Department, ]. W. HIGSON, '84. f Z. CLARK. '8+. F. BAILEY, '85. E. MITCHELL, '8s. :Local Department, Personal Department, - Exchange Department, l 'Extranea Department, Collegensia Department. - ]. H. VEEDER, '84. E. H. ADRIANCE, '83. BUSINESS MANAGER-A. T. C. HAMLIN, '83. THE CONCORDIENSIS. ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE. SINGLE NU MEERS, TEN CENTS. A.Ill•RESS : A. T. C. liA:\1LlN, P. 0. Bux:, 456, Scltelzcckll(J', N. Y. -~ The Cr>NCORDIEI'\SIS will be fuund on ~ale a.t Bm·hyte's, I I I State Street. ------------- Printed by Chas. Burrows, Steam Printer, 1~7 State Street, Schenectady, N. V. Editorial Deparhnent, 97 Literary Departtnent. Poetn, Birth of vVasbington, lOI l-Iistorical Sket:ch of English Stage, - ror Poetn, Song of Lah-dy ... da-da, 103 Parable of the Lost Dog, - 104 Freshie's Valentine, 105 Pr:::yer Day Exercises, - An Episode, Local Department, Personal Departrnent, Collegensia Departn1.ent~ Extrat1ea Departtnent, Exchange Deparhnent, - - 107 ro8 ro8 II4 II7 rr8 II9 j .I ---- - ----· -------------------~ --~--------- ------ THE papers and magazine::; in t!te college reading-room are bought by the united subscriptions of the stu- dents. sum Each rnan pays out a sn1~ll for this purpose, and he, of course, is privileged to read the pa- pers, &c., while he is in the reading- room; but we qp not see what right any man has to take these papers out of that room. The directors of the room have noticed recently that too many magazines have been disap- peanng. Now, in the name ()[ the directors, we protest against the prac- tice. It is not an uncon1mon ()Ccur- rence that students now drop into the reading-room several days after the magazines are out, and are not able to find them. Where do they go to ? This is a serious question. If the books rr1ust be carried off in this way, we h~d better not have any reading-room at all. By all means, let us have right dealing in this matter.

1 . ...,. HE CONCORDIENSIS ScHENECTADY, N.Y., FEBRUARY, 188~. .... VOL. VI. No. \l . ' PuBLISHED MoNTHLY sv THE STUDENTS oF UNION CoLLEGE. Entered at the Post Office at Schenectady a:s ~econd Cla~s Matter. ~~-~---~-~~--------- ---·- EDlTOR-IN...,CHIEF~ JOHN R. HARDING, '83. Literary Department, ,l Athletic Department, ~ Local Department, ]. W. HIGSON, '84. 1 Z. CLARK, '84. F. BAILEY, '8s. E. MITCHELL, '8s. - ]. H. VEEDER, '84. Personal Department, Exchange Department, t 'Extranea Department, ( Collegensia Department. J E. H. ADRIANCE, '83. BUSINESS MANAGER~A. T. C. HAMLIN, '83. THE CONCORDIENSIS. ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE. SINGLE NUMBERS, TEN CENTS. ADI•RESS: A. T. C. liA:\1LlN, P. 0. Bux, 456, Sclzenedat(y, N. Y. t1ffi!r The CoNCORDIENsrs will be fuund on sale at Barhyte's, I I I State Street. Printed by Chas. BmTO\VS, Steam Printer, 187 State Street., Schenectady, N. Y. Editorial Departtnent, 97 Literary Departtnent. Poetn, Bhth of Washington, ror 1:-Iisto rica I Ske~ch of English Stage, Tor Poern, Song of Lah-dy-da-da, 103 Parable of the Lost Dog, - 104 Freshie's VaJentine, 105 Pr[:yer Day Exercises,·~ 107 An Episode, 108 Local Departlnent, 108 Personal Departlnent, I 14 , Collegensia Departn1ent, - ::: r 7 j Extratiea Deparhnent, - rr8 - Exchange Departlnent, - I 19 0 ~d., ., I c:;~ 1 tor1ct . c:;v - . -------------------- THE papers and magazines in tlte college reading-room are bought by the united subscriptions of the stu- dents. Each rnan ·pays out a sm;:ll sum for this purpose, and he, of course, is privileged to read the pa- pers, &c., while he is in the reading- room; but we c.f.o not see what right any man has to take these papers out of that room. The directors of the room have noticed recent] y that too many magazines have been disap- pearing. Now, in the name of the directors, we protest against the prac- tice. It is not an uncon1mon· occur- rence that students now drop into the reading-room several days after the magazines are out, and are not able to find them. Where do they go to? This is a serious question. If the books rr1ust be carried off in this way, we h~d better not have any reading-room at all. By all means, let us hav~ right dealing in this matter.

g8 THE CONCORDIENSIS, TIME and aga1n we have spoken this year about the want of rnusic in our chapel exercises. Why can not last year's pil!an be carried out now? Was the singing disagreeable to the students at large? On the contrary, we think we can truly say that there never was a tin1e when 1nore order and general attention to the services prevailed than last year. Can not we do son1ething to prevent the inat- tention which so many show no\v? Why, a stranger entering our chapel during service would have strong rea- son to think that many of the stu, .. dents had con1e there ostensibly for the purpose of lounging on the benches, or of making a general studying-roon1 out of a sarred place. Certain] y he would in fer that the es- pecial duty of every one was sadly neglected by nearly all. Only t·en n1inutes a day set apart to the serv- ice of God, and those minutes spent in a Jistless negligence of that serv- Ice. We would not speak of this matter if eur paper did not try to be truly a studenfs paper. An tvil which so stares every one in the face should, we think, deserve the con- ~ideration of every college man. This is why we ask for music, be- cause it would help to relieve this evil. All who were present at the service on Prayer Day remember ho·w well the singing sounded. Let the n1en, then, who formed the choir on that ·day exert thetnselves and start this very much needed addition to our daily service. Let us have some life in our college; let there be m:ore outward signs of personal en- ergy. We had an editorial in our last paper touching son1ewhat on this ·matter, and we hope that it will now receive immediate attention. THE hour spent by either the J un- iors or Seniors, every Monday aft- ernoon, in No. 4, certain I y should be made one of the most useful of the week. But is it thus made ? Now this is a subject which concerns every college man. 0 ne of the greatest advantages in a college course, aud one which serves a man well wben out in the world, is the training obtained from literary cul- ture. It matters not whether Theol- ogy, Law, Medicine, EnJ\ineering or Business is to be the life work, an ability to address bodies of men al- ways at some tin1e comes in play. Now, if any proficiency is obtained in this art, it n1ust be acquired by la- bor. ·we believe that the majority of student's do put that labor on their orations. Now, why did we ask the question, \Is this hour made thus useful?\ Because we do not think that some students behave them- selves during this hour as becomes dignified and thoughtful men. D-o we wish to make cldld'·s play of this all- . lnl . SIC wl oc Pt be yc th ha tic . Ill: ' W( w lis . In· sp pc ge th T~ pl' to a1 to to GJ th th fo: cl; qt

c THE C:ONCORDIENSIS. 99 in1portant study ? Should not con- ing a ph?tographer, as was clone last sideration be shown for the speaker year. It seems to us that the plan whose oration has, or ought to have, occupied his all-in1porta.nt tin1e? . Put yourself in his place, standing up before a gz'g-glz'1l% crowd, and see if you can then obtain the standard for that oration which the former labor has deserved. w.e decry this prac- tice in behalf of those who are try- ing for excellence in this work, and we hope not to be disregarded. rfHE lecture · in the chapel, on Wednesday, the 31st of}anuary, was listened to by every one with intense interest. The earnest manner of the speaker, the c:1ear and pra.ctical points which he brought forward, to- gether with his rich, full voice, drew the full attention of his audience. The subject, ·'Manliness,\ he ap- plied particularly to college n1en and to their relation as fnture citizens of a country which he thinks is destined to be thegrandest in the world's his- tory. Although an Englishman, Mr. Graham has identified himself vvith this country, ancl is now engaged in the noble work of temperance re- forn1. C?ming to us with many years' experience of lecturing among all classes of English people, he is well qualified to fulfi1 his intended mis- . ,81011. \iVouLD it not be admissable for the Seniors to make some move in secur- then adopted was a most efficient one, as it was more convenient than any other. Mr. Pach seemed to have given general satisfaction to '82, and we see no reason why he should not be. eng-aged again. Beside this, he has many negatives of college scen- ery, taken last spriBg, and if he was settled here, those views could be ob- tained at a much more reasonable rate. ·Now that we are settled in the new recitation roorns and as they are too warm for one to remain du:·ing the hour with an over-coat on, would it be too much that hooks should be placed in the different rooms for coats and hats? Both these articles at pres- ent have to be piled pron1 iscuously on a long bench, not always to the ad- vantage of a nice coat or a stiff hat. DuRING the long winter term when college men are necessarily confined a good deal to their rvoms, in -vvhat more useful manner can they spend leisure hours than in reading the works of the\ best authors. After a man leaves college and enters upon life's work, there is not much time for such reading and so the golden .., mo1nents should now be cultivated, We know that the regular course at Union, takes up the better portion of our time, but every tnan who has

IOO THE CONCORDIENSIS. no extra wor~<. can ~i:th proper econ- tative of old Union, come forward only of hours spencl a.t least one day 110 w and give us your hearty co~ in literary culture. Perhaps many operation. u~eful n1oments are wasted bv loafing in other roo ns. THE Inter-Colleg;r~te Press Asso- ciation, \Vhich has €.1f late been the subject of so much comn1ent ·among college papers is now fully organized and seems so far t·o be a success. A mt:eting was held on ·Dec. 27th, at Hamilton Hall, Coh1n1bia and was attended by about seventy-five dele- gates, only ten of \Vihon1 signed the constitution. Those were the Athe- Ju:ezun, Argo, Antlzerst Student, Bru- uonion~ J-Iarvanl Herald, ColztJnbia, Uuivcrsity Magaz:ille aJZd Vassar lW-iscellroty and the Argonaut a1zd Clzronicle of Michigan University. All these papers are representatives of thriving institutio.11s and we hope ~vvi11 be able to carr_y out the plans of the Associations. Many of the lead- ing papers are still standing off un- decided whether tojoin or not. One of the good effects of the Association is to be seen in the \general college notes\ in the Argo_ WE again ask for a larger support from the 1nen of the college. We are striving hard ll()\iV to put our pa- per upon a higher level and to do so two things are essential-namely, fin8ncial support aHd literary contri~ butions. Gentlemen if you wish your college paper to be a represen- WE wish to return thanks to those ·who have kindly inforn1ed us how to conduct this paper. We have been surprised at the~ number of Gree1eys, Raymonds and Weeds, to be found in our midst. Why these gifted in- dividuals remain in the back ground and only show their talents when~ an edition having been issued, they approach the editors and inform them of various sins of omissio: 1 and coni- mission, we do not understand. We are mortal ( \ve are sorry to confess it) and make many blunders, but why do not these gentlemen who know all about the correct way step to the front? 'rh e sundry elegant and pointed remarks made by some men if the paper is a few days late would seem to betoken an intense interest to procure a few copies. Most of them take one copy and have it charged, so the editor can have the pleasure of collecting it; others read their neighbor's copy. We do not desire to find fault but \Ve respect- fully suggest there are two ways of looking at everything and we would like all to try both, A w Or Tr Ot A: n~ st h p 12 fc q p ( n d 0 \

1'HE CONCORDIENSIS. 101 THE BIRTH OF WASHINGTON. A <iimpled babe was born one wintry day, '.Mid February's inauspicious cold. Who thought, as softly cradeled then he lay, He would be called a nation's sire, when old? That ages hence his story would be told ? Or dreamed, then gazing on that heavenly sight, That he would lead with spirit dauntless bold, The legions of the free, the hos~s .of right, To happy liberty, or glorious death? Pillowed in .smiles, he draws his *gentle breath, Or tastes the dreamless sleep of babyhood ; Whilst all the gods do weave th' immortal wreath, To crown him chief of all th~ ''great and good,\ The grand exemplar of heroic faith. A. B. E., '85. AN HIS f'ORICAL SKETCH OF THE ENG- LISH STAGE. People ~f all classes and ages have been fond of seeing the deeds of n1en and gods represented on the stage. The perfection of the play has been in many instances cote m- poraneous with the progress of civil- ization and culture. It is difficult for us, in this reading age, to prop-. erl y estimate the effect of the thea- ter upon the minds of a people unac- quainted with books. It was the popular vehicle:'! of intelligence in Greece, whose example succeeding nations have followed. It is, however, with. the English drama with which we shall interest ourselves, since the stage of the \English in their three homes\ is a ' type of that of all theater-going peo- ples of the present day. The English drama has gone ing phases. The Britons anciently were wholly occupied with \Vars, and vvere little given to the cultivation of literature or intellectual anluse- ments. As soon as the nation pro- cured a little leisure, the people, naturally dra1natic, were accustomed to congregate in the courts of their inns to witness various theatrical performances, Previous to the fifteenth century, the spirit of the age found expres- sion in \Niiracle'' plays, or repre- sentations of Scripture incidents, such as the \ Resurrection\ and the \ Deluge.'· These were often en- acted without any regard to the probabilities of time or place. The Virgin Mary was likely to appear in the latest French styles, and Pontius Pilate would strirle about with hL. h c boots and spurs. So little attention . was paid to chronology that, in the play of the \ Deluge,\ Noah's wife S\\tears that she will not take passage on the ark, until, finally, Noah per- suades her to em bark, after a sound cudgeling with a stick whose calibre the patriarch limits to the \thickness of her husband's thumb.\ Old manuscripts have been found which, with ludicrous system, state some of the ext>enses incurred at these extensive spectacular exhibi- tions. The following items we of to-day through many curious and interest- would say indicated the \gross rna-

roz THE CONCO:RDIENSIS. terialism of the age: \Payd to play- play and finally reached the clin1ax ers 1 imp·rz'ntiss,. :to God, I Is:-; for l~eepi ng f~;er at hell's mnntb, ·I I l s.'' In the play of the ~. Mysteries,' 1 the Creator was represented as a per- son of very ext,ravagant ideas of dress. Here are som·e entries: H Payd for gilding God's coat; payd for a pair of gloves tor God ; payd for the tritnmynges of the Father of Heaven.' The \·Passion Play,'' which a few ma agers are trying to inflict upon the American public, is essentially similar to the l\1i racle play, and our magistrates are wise in suppre~sing what was the result of ignoranc~ and s !!perstition in the fifteenth century, hut \.vhat would he blasphen1y in this. About the n1iddle of the sixteenth century, the \Moral\ play can1e into vogue. It employed human actors ::.ts the allegorical representation of attributes and cha~·acteristics. Some of the subjects were, \Virtue ''Hy- pocrasie/· and\ Good Counsel.\ As before the Miracle play \Vas the re- sult of the power of the n1ysterious and supernatural over the people's tninds, so the tnoral play was the ·manifestation of the tendencies of the Reforn1ation. 'The \Real\ place which vividly reproduced the scenes of real life, touching the springs of human pas- sion, gradually displaced the rnoral of its perfection with Shakspere. The drama of that day recognized and supplied the needs of· advanced civilization and with little alteration fron1 its original conception has for over two centuries contributed to men a vast wealth of enjoyment. -In this liheral and enlightened age we often wonder where the exces- sive religious prejudice against the stage orignatedw Very early in its history tlie stage n1et serious opposition and the dis- like of certain kinds of plays· finally gave place to a fierce prejudice against everything attaching to .the stage. However,. the first aggressive opposition to the play sprang from Puritans, the absence of all hutnor and mirth fron1 whose lives rendered them at variance with all wor-ldly pleasures, fro1n dancing and play- going to the eating of a Christ mas rnince pie. Nevertheless in the Puritan days the stage had greatly degenerated from wl\at it was under the fostering care of the literary Elizabe-than era. 'The grossness, cru- elty, wantoness, profanity and im- tnorality, which had crept into the drama, vvas due to the influence of ltalian and Spanish literature from which plots and scenes ofhorrors and lust were borrowed. Hence it is not strange. that the Puritans whose life was passed in \vh: 1i lf l b as; ] the bo' .I n:a pu1 wh wo tan thE to e1e t \\;-· no· hi.E ref . llffi the fe( of lif( ro1 an th su cl( th :pll bE ca

THE CONCORDIENSIS. I03 \vhat Milton called \a din1 religious rise to a numerous profession whose 1ight,\ should have hated the stage as an \abomination of the 'devil.'' It was one of the peculiarities of the tirne that in the perforn1ance, boys took thepartsDfwotnen to which n:ay perhaps be attributed the inl- pure language and the careL:ss jests which were put into the mouths of women. The salutary influence of the Puri- tans upon the objectional features of the stage, has transn1itted'the dran1a to later times, chaste, refined and e1evate.d, but the prejudice beg-otten t \\tO centuries ago unfortunately is not yet extinct. Tbe stage throughout its entire . hi.story, it will be observed, is the reflection of the religious, moral or immoral tendencies of the age. In the drama, can be read the thoughts, feelings and pursuits of the people of its day. Man loves to see his Dwn life reproduced an1id artistic sur- rounding. Theaters are the necessary accotnpaniment of literature, science and art and if instead of decrying them, sorne of our hypocritcal, super- susp1c1ous, shut-me-from-the-world clergymen would devote a part of their energy to the elevation and purification of the stage, they 'vould be rendering important service to the cause of the harmless amusements ()four active and over-worked Ameri- can people. The stage has given clain1s to notice as a factor in society are as well based as those of the le- gal, medical or clerical professions. And while its leading ,members, both personally and through their dratnatic journals, are exerting all their power to maintain the dignity and the respectability of their pro- fession, they should meet the appro- bation and aid, instead of the sneers and opposition of all thinking ·men. D. B. THE SONG OF THE LAHDYDADA, 1'HE TWIN HROTH.ER OF H:IA. WATHA. A POEM. f*Note at end ofpoem]. BY JESSE JAMES HOWLS, JR • Prologue. Come, 0 Muse, frvm out thy cor11ers; Help me sing this painful ditty; And the muse came out and helped me- Better she had never come. * * 'Vhen the red heat of the summel' Had clothed Dame Nature with brightest verdure; \IVhen the apple, the harvest apple, Bloomed npon the swaying tree boughs ; When the rabbit, with tail uplifted, Skipped across the fragrant meadow; ~·hen the squirrel, with merry chattering, Danced aloft among the hnfnches, And the little lnrdlii1gs flittered From tree to tree with sweetest warbling Then the lithesome Lahdydada Gladden.od was within his \bussom He, the twin of Hiawatha, lie, shyest of that noble family, Noticed that the juicy melon Grew so quietly in Jones's garden; And these sights, 50~11e how or other, Made him smile a ghastly smole. Much the twinier of the twinlets, •

104 TH-E CONCO,RDIENSIS, F(1r, not like his older brother, Did he roam the mighty forests ; Chased he not the red deer pan!ing 'Till it died frmn ~heer exhaustion ; Nor did the squirrel sing out to him Not to point his \shooter\ thither. Totally unlike his h;-other 'VVatha Was this shyest of :-.hy hunters. He did not chase the tired game, Killing where e'er the chance was offered. Dealt he gently w1th the captured. SofLly did he fill his game-bag, \tVhich was not of coarsest leather, Like that of fiercer Hiawatha; But was made of finer texture, Of the cloth known as bagging, Was this hag of Lahdydada. It was not in broadest daylight, Not when sunshine kissed the flowers, Did this twin of Hiawatha Wander forth in quest of 'venture; But when night obscured the landscape, When the air was hushed in silence, Save the barkings of the bull-doJ, When the neigh lJors their beds had taken, And ha<l lost their wits in slumber, \Vent he forth in search of fodder, Such as melons, apples, peaches; Even the delicious pears Fell victim to his love of plunder. Such in brief is what I learned From the hedg~s by the ways1de, From the barbs of wire fences 'Where entangled might he seen Remnants of a tattered garment, From the mouths of various neighbors, From the growls of several watch-dogs. Often had this wary hunter Come nightly near to getting nabbed; Often had he 'scaped the clutches Of the infuriated watchman, Oftener had his hi11der-mo;:,test Felt the hot breath of the purpling, But never yet had be been worsted. Fleet of foot and ·eelish slippery, He was like the little grasshopper, So hard was he to lay his hands on. But as all thing~ must have an end, Likewise, too, must Lahdydada, Likewise, too, this painful ditty. It was on one August evening That he ventured forth for 111elons, With his bJ.g of baggy bagging, Skin.1med he one and all the fences, Like unto the buoyant swallow, Till he r,ame to Jones· garden, Enclosed by fence some ten feet high. Cleared was this like all the others; But he reckoned not his hostess. There amid the pile of melons Crouched the fierce and bloody bull- Jog. Lahd ydada saw his mistake, Now too late to make amendments, For at once the purpling grabbed him, Graobed hin1 by the \hinder-mostest Tendereft part of Lahdydada; Chirped the cricket, croaked the bull-frog. Forth went one yell of bitter sorrow From the lips o.f Lahdydada. Then he ran for all his worth With the purpling hanging to him. Over hedge and fence they bounded Till they disappeared from vision, Ne'er to re-appear again. Gone_ forever was the hunter, 1\ ever more beheld by mortal. Still the rabbit sniffs the soft wind; Still the squirrel cracks the beechnut; Still the birds their ditties murmur, Yet they marvel where is vanished Lahdydada, the timid hunter. None save the owl can tell the story; There he sits upon the tree top, Hooting forth the painful ditty Of the twin of Hiawatha. *N CJT E-'1 !:e author has written the above poem in order to show the negligence of the poet Long- fellow in not even mentioning the twin brother of Hiawatha in his beautiful poem of that name. It is impossible to account for Longfellow's ac- tion in the matter, for any one who will compare the two poems will see that Lahdydada was the greater hero of the- two. THE PARABLE OF THE LOST DOG. Once there happened unto Union a Freshn1an and he had not abided long before he marveled much at the sights he saw. Now it came to pass tha the doE the An exc for ate eat be col be: \Vf At no m: ed hi lo1 ch M th w pl e~ fo g: rr. aJ h Sl

THE CONCORDIENSIS, 105 that as he st'rol(ed one afternoon in the suburbs of Schenectady with his . dog, a butcher's dog appeared upon the scene and did kidnap that dog. And Freshie was rent with grief and exclaimed ''it shall be found.\ And for twD and twenty days he neither ate nor drank, but sought it far and near. One day after this fast,as he was eating hash at his boarding house, lo! be ran across the buckle of his dog's collar and holding the dish of hash before him, he spake \rejoice and be exceeding glad for this is rn y dog \vhich was lost but is found again.\ And they wept and verily there was no n1ore hash eaten on that day. FRESHIE'S VALENTINE. but nowhere could he find one pleasing, at once, to· his artistic eye and purse. Now about a week before the· day which above all others is most de- lightfully looked forward to by our young ladies, it suddenly struck h_im that something original in the poetic line wouid do more to make him chivalrous in her eyes than all the fancy fixings that money could buy. 'fhus we find him on St. Valen·- tine's eve trying to bring to a close the poem, which had cost hin1 so n1an y nights of toil. At length he dropped his pen and with an air of relief leaned back in his chair-The Valentine ~s finish- ed. Shortly he consigned it to an It was St. Valentines eve. The envelope, putting off directing it un- midnight oil in Freshie's lamp burn~ ed low, as he sat, pen in hand, before his desk, puzzling over a suspicious looking n1anuscript, vvhile his Soph. chum lay snoring in artns of old Morpheus. The beads ~f sweat upon his brow, the occasional clutching of his hair with his unoccupied hand and the play of emotion about his mouth bore evidence that it was very hard work for Freshie. For some time past this gay and festive youth had been ena- mored ,of a certain girl in the town and as St. Valentine's day drew near he had been on the lookout for a suitable token of love to send her, til rnorning. Freshie neglected to read his Bible that night, so sleepy \vas he and no so0ner had he touched the sheets than sleep relieved his troubled brain of all earthly cares. Now arose the Soph and going to his trunk, took therefrom an envel- ope exactly resen1bling the one which contained Freshie s poem and a com- ic Valentine. Th.en holding the lat- ter to the stove light for one last look, he beheld a very slim young fetnale, in dishabille standing before her toilet bureau. Her false teeth and hair lay upon the marble top di- rectly in front of the glass, \vhile calfs, hips, bustles and padding mixed

106 THE CONCORDIENSIS. with other debris, were strewn around her. Below all this was a verse in bold type, not especially calculated to en- hance the beautiful sentiment re-. vealed in the picture. A broad grin spread over S oph' s features as he. slipped it in the envel- ope, sealed it, and substituted it for the one Freshie had laid upon the table. Back to bed he now went and slept the sleep of the innocent for the remainder of the night. The next morning Freshie n1ailed his valentine. '' Ah,\ thought he, as he dropped . it in the letter-receiver, l1; ''what a surprise this will be to h,cr, my own little Birdie,\ and it was a surprise. That evening he sauntered down to see his Birdie and at eight o'clock prompt rung the door bell on her pa's front stoop. The old wo- man answered'his ring, but no sooner did she discover who her visitor was, than she :flew into a violent passion, and hurled the umbrella-stand square at his head, then a ~arometer and cuspidor followed in rapid succession, sandwiched by the occasional grip of a yellow dog at his pants-leg. The brother now came upon the scene and went at hin1 tooth and nail. In vain he attempted to Pxplain, -every word he uttered only in- creased the number and fierceness of the enemy's assaults. Next the old man appeared and uttering a growl of rage, straightway went'for the old army musket which lay behind his overalls in the closet, About this tim,e Fresbie began to think that his darling's family had some slight prejudice against him, but nevertheless he held his own, determined not to quit the field of action until he had .seen his Birdie. The onslaughts of the enemy still continued. It seemed to him that the whole inside of the house had been hurled at his person. Mean while he heard the old man upstairs rammi~g home a load of buckshot, and some~ how or other he began tofeel a little home sick. Then came· the click of the hammer, as a cap was fitted on. He had only one resort left now and that was to summon 13irdie upon the scene. Accordingly, he called, \Birdie not softly and s·weetly as he had been wont to do when the weather permitted his under-the-window ser- enades, but with a good, full, healthy yell of mingled pain and sorrow. His call was answered. At the window directly above him she appeared and for a moment he saw that sweet face resplendent in the fair moonlight, but only for a moment did ~he beau- teous vision linger and then a churn full of slops descended and moistened the physical aspects ?f Freshie and the yellow dog. \And thou too Birdi'e! \ he sadly said, and heaving a d aJ o: p b al S] n c a~ e F e Vi . 11 r 0 t h b r a t J I ~

THE CONCORDIENSIS, 107 a parting shot at the brother with the door mat he retreated to the gate and with one last glance at the scene of ·carnage, leaked out for more peaceful climes. A cry of '' Frosh \ from a neigh- boring window did not tend materi- ally to lessen his discomfiture as he sped along and vanished into the night. The next day Freshie ~made a curious remark to his chum that it was strange how son1e people were affected by poetry, and Soph snick- ered quietly in his sleeve and agreed with him. JUNIOR. PRAYER DAY EXERCISES. Thursday, January 25th, was Pray- er Day for the colleges. The day was observed by proper services held in the chapel and by suspension of regular college duties. At eleven o'clock the chapel was well filled with students an9 many persons from , the city. called Samuel the third time,'' I. Samuel III., 8. The life, character and achievements of Samuel were held up as an example after which to pattern, and thus ~reach success. The discourse was divided in to two parts: first, the sources of character ; and, secondly, the ele- ments of great character. The speaker considered the mother, fam- ily and the school as the great sources of ,character. He drew illustrations from the lives of Samuel, St. Aug- ustine, Wesley and Washington. T'he success of these men, he said, was due to the influence of virtuous vvon1anhood. Then were considered the ele!Dents of great character. The first element was a distinct person- ality, together with intelligence and will. A man must have an Ego, not an Echo. The second element was, an in- flexible purpose. A man must have definite ends in view. He must have clear ideas and certain knowl- edge. The third element was an The exer.cises began with the apprehension of the 1noral above the hyn1n, \It is wei~ with my soul,~~ by the G.lee Club. Dr. Potter then read the lesson, and made a tnost appropriate prayer. Then was sung the hytnn, \Have you any room for Jesus ?\ After this a sermon was preached by Rev. Wm. A. V. V. Mabon, of New Brunsvvick, 'N. J . ..,..__........_.,_. ____ .-. / Tpe text _was, '-;t\.nd the Lord / J·i--1.?-~c''-\ ... U-i.\:'~ n1aterial. _~\ man must contend for principles and ideas. Rc=·velation should be the guide. Then he spoke · of the justice of such a life, and of the satisfaction one would feel if they influenced others for good, and made themselves a light unto other men. l-Ie then closed by saying that al- ready the Lord has called every stu-

108 THE ·CONCORD!ENSIS. I . . . dent twice, at horne and in early youth, and now he cam~e to deliver a third call to all, to live a life like Samuel. He plead for all to heed this third call. This wa:s followed by a very earn- est prayer from the preacher, after which the hy.mn, ''Hiding in Thee'' was sung. Then came the Benedic- tion. This service was very impressive. and the sermon being such a plain, cornn1on sense one~ all understood it and undoubtedly were influenced. AN EPISODE. How sweet he did look, the other afternoon, as he ~trolled down Col- lege Hill. with that purple tie' ~which he got Christmas, and the dizzy plush cap poised gracefully on. the top of his head. rfhe cause of so much effort to look picturesque was coming up on the opposite side of the street. His eyes now took to themselves a sort of beautiful, wistful look, while the natural, graceful swing of his body was tnaterially aided by the an- gular movements of his arn1s at his side. But how suddenly misfortune over- takes its victims, especially when they think themselves secure from the most adverse fates. The whirr-the whizz of a de- scending bob was all he heard, and that sunny picture of manly grace was no more. Presently he emerged from a snow-bank, collarless and hat- less, and shed a silent tear of regret · over his calamity. . Who, even a1nong the most total of abstainers, will blame that sorely tried youth, when they learn that, in eleven whisky sours, he straightway strove to drown his misery. EYE- WITNESS. -There is a dearth of locals. -The dancing schools of the city are well patronized by students. -College Fair-second week of next tern1. ----Hobbs '8 5, recently n1ade us a short call. -Is J. J. Drowne going to assist at the college fair? -Prof. Staley has had a severe at- tack of infl.ammatory rheurnatism. -The present] unior Ger1nan class is the largest one for sorp e years. -How is it that the Juniors are not taking physical culture this term? -Rev. W. R. Woodbridge assisted in the exercises at chapel on Feb- ruary Ist. -A So ph. translates plaustro equoque viventes-. ccLi ving in a wag- on drawn by horses.\ -~.- wor day ' oft aw effc tist: . ln 8th So te1 fro da· he by ho ru H . Ill: . ki be to fo ll( rc Ul C< cc h

1'HE ·CiQNCORDIENSIS, 109 -The Juniors comm:ence-d their work under Prof. Foster, on Mon- day' the sth inst. -Much to the disappointment ( ?') ' of the under classes, drill :ceased, for a while last month. -The students ought to rnake an effort to patronize those w bo ad ver- tise in THE CONCORDIE~SJS •. -The Seniors had an exaoination in Butler's Analogy on Thursday the 8th. --] udging by the boast of the So ph's, cremation at the close of this term ·will be ace om pan ied l!>y gore. -We received a very pleasant call from James R. Fairgrieve ''82 a few days ago. Jim reports prosperity. -A Senior was not long since heard to speak about the argun1ent by St. George on Political Economy. -A man who hasn't taken .in a hop lately wishes to kno-w if the rick-rack is danced much. -This is the time when more Hellos are said backwards than dur- ing any other time ofthe year. -In place oflectures byProf. Per~ kins in Chemistry this term, a text book has been subsitt1ted s-imply to to keep an interest. -The committees on arrangn1ents for class suppers, have sear,ched the neighboring cities and are unable to report a fifty cent place. -Many of the students have been unable to attend recitation on ac- count of colds. They are not the common, ordinary, eight~day colds, but appear to be contagious. -- It takes a pretty lively sheep to .strike a two-forty gait and jump over its own baas. -Coats a la soup-A Senior was asked recently if he intended to ,graduate in o:c-tail coat. --Some of the students are study- ing short-hand, which no doubt will prove very useful to them. -The Senior Engineers were en- tertained by Prof. Staley, at his house, on Wednesday evening, the ;tth inst. -Maj. McMurray has commen<;:ed his drill again. He is very busy now with the History, which he expects to publish soon. -There is a comparative dearth of smokers since the beginning of Lent. Would that it were Lent all the time, says Soph. P--. -The class in Stereotomy is doing some very good and interesting work. We are glad it has been in- troduced into the course. -The weather has been so cold that some of the Juniors thought it desirable to begin their study of heat at the beginning of the term. -Ten1pleton, '84, recently made us a call. ·we were glad to see him lookiug so well and hope he will keep in1proving. -'The college orchestra receiv- ed an invitation to play at a church sociable but owing to the pro- miscuous state of affairs they declined. . -The ] uniors have completed their work in Mechanics, under Prof Price, who performed various experi- ments at the close.

I 10 THE CONCORDIENSIS. -Dr. Potter has been in New York making negotiations for the sale of some College property, valued at $I so,ooo. -The n1en1bers of the class of '8r who reside in Albany and vicinity recently had a supper in memory of their college days. -Prof. Price has been making some interesting experiments in Hy- drostatic and H ydronamics, for the retiring class in Mechanics. -We hope to be favored, as of yore, by a day set apart for field sports. .i\11 are interested and hope to see Unions record second to none. -Men· trying for a position on the nine are soon to take regular work in the gymnasium under the direc- tion of the captain, McElwain, '83. --North College has a shooting gallery attached. Some are becon1- ing quite excellent mar \<smen. But how about your target? -All seem to miss the use of the ency~lopedias. We are waiting for the ti1r1e when we will have free ac- cess to them. -We see by the bulletin-board that Prof. Lamaroux now has his room in the Washburne building We are glad to. see that the rooms are so rapidly being occupied. -The Freshies must go to bed early, if they call 4 P. M. night. A notice was posted lately saying there would be a meeting of the Fresh- man class ''to-night at 4 P. M.\ -Dr. Wortn1an, one of the Trus- tees visited the college the latter part of January. He listened to the wisdom of the Seniors in Butler's ' Analogy. R Ull10Y has it that in a recent com- munication from i\. S: An_able, '85~ he expressed a desire to return to Union and also said that he might possibly do so. -. Prof. in Astronomy-. \Mr. -· -, win ycu describe this instrument?'' St udent-'·Well, sir; I think- -my 'd . \ 1 ea Js-er- Prof.-\Ah then, you have an ·1 L h . \ IC ea. · et us ear 1t. Student-\Well sir; it- er-er.\ Prof.-\That'11 J.o.\ Student sits down. -Not long ago sotne Freshies were seen going about with downcast faces, asking if it was so that the Faculty were going to pass a resolu- tion not to let the stuJents go off the hill any time but Fridaynight. Evi- dently some designing or joking per- son had been imposing on the Fresb- ies' fears and credulity. -The old stone \valk, fron1 Blue Gate to South College, remains as slippery as ever, and daily nun1erous students are seen rubbing their bruised limbs, and looking rnournful- ly'at the ground with which they have been in contact. Can not such an into I era bl e nuisance be re- moved? A great n1istake was made last Hallo·w E'en night. -Class suppers have' been the all- absorbing subject in the recent class n1eeUngs. 1'he Seniors have yet made no move at all for :1. supper. The Juniors are yet undecided, but the nlor'e ·energetic under class-.nlen have made full arrangetnents for a grand ti1ne far away from \Old Dorp's\ quiet surroundings. The Sopbs, having elected W. L. Mills as toastmaster, will hold their supper at the American I-Iouse, in Troy, on Thursday, the I 5th of February. The Freshmen, .with H. L. Judson as t ,r I c ( ( t 1

·' ... II THE CONCORDIENSIS, I I 1 toastmaster, will have theirs on Feb- , ruary 23d, probably at the Mansion House, in Troy. 4 • -The following are some bright effusions drawn from the English class : Soph. M. maintained that the Sax- on chronicle derived its subject mat- ter frorn the Gospels. \ ' 1 Soph. A. mentioned Winken.stein as one of the Saxon invaders. He knows. Soph. P. made so1ne remarks about tn e fen1ale Queen Boadicea. -Rather ambiguous. \By the way, Tom what do you think of my new shoes, 'eh old boy?\ and Ton1 as he took in their magnificent di- mensions, n1unnured : \Sin1ply 1m- _ \ mense. -We acknowledge the receipt ·of a sample card of Gillott's fine pens. Everybody is so we11 acquainted ~it? the n1erits of this make that 1t IS needless to add our tribute. -Through a n1istake, the ad ver- tiselnent of Duryee's Drug Store was omitted in our last issue. We regret the omission and h.ope that the students will see that it is no loss. -A \townie\ was §peaking about some students he ha'G met recently and on being asked what class they belonged to he artlessly replied: \Oh t first class -they were well dressed.\ /~'\ ' , .. -T'he new catalogue, with its most truthful statements, has again n1ade its appearance. It see1ns to us that the course of stttdy could be made to coincide tnq,re nearly ·with the course pursued. We might call attention to the fact that Newcomb ·s algebra is studied now. -· CuLINARY.-Many a young wife on settling down to house-keeping learns to her sorrow that after all she has mashed \ pretty small potatoes \ and that \her goose is cooked.'' -To Shakespeare's question, \What's in a name?\ we would an- swer, everything is sometimes. If he were at our boarding house he would find that all the difference be- tween tea, coffee and hot water is in the name. -Professor in Physiology, \ Mr. H., what is the covering around the heart ca11ed?\ Mr. H. reflecting for some time, Professor attempts to prompt him, \Isn't it the peri-?\ Mr. H., \Oh yes. the peritonitis.\ --rfhe Seniors begun their work in Hebrew, under Mr. Maxon, on the 31st of last month. The eln- bryo-preachers only are taking it so far. They have three recitations a week. -Arrangements have at last been co1np!eted for another joint-debate between the Adelphic and Philo- nlathean Societies. The question agreed upon is, ''Resolved that a Limited Monarchy is the best form of Gover·nment for France.\ The Adelphic speakers, Adriance, '83, Hutchinson, '84, and Neagle, '84, will maintain the affinnati ve and the Philomathean speakers, Benedict,'84, Allison, '84, and Phelps, '~5, the negative. These debates have al- ways proved interesting, not only to the students but to their friends in the city, and \Ve hope that the pres- ent champions will keep up the for- n1er interest. Preparation for the de bates requires time and labor, but to no better purpose can time ancl labor be given than to a well-con- ducted argu1nent. Those who have taken part in the previous joint-de-

' . ! ' Ill Il2 THE CON·CORDIENSIS. bates acknowledge fully the truth of his statement. The judges this time are Judge Landon, Prof. Staley and Prof. Alexander. -Prof. Whitehorne has been a little unwell with colds, but is now much better. -We will state for the benefit of the inmates of North Collebe, that it is not yet the \Glorious Fourth,\ though the periodical fire-cracker has made its appearance. -The Sophs have decided to print programmes of their cla.~s supper, whether it be held or not. Some· persons are evidently very anxious to see their names in print .. -We think that the Latin course ., should be amended so that some Latin dran1a should be read-Plau- tus, Terence,or Seneca. The present Juniors and Sophomores have as yet read no Latin play. We hope next year to see a change. -At a meeting ofthe Freshman class, Frosh L. became very much \enthused'. in the discussion\' relative to the date appointed for the class supper and ejaculated that it must not be held on the fourteenth as that was Washington ·s birthday. -We regret very much to an- nounce the loss of Dr. Pierson as col= lege physician. The Dr. was prompt and reliable and was well liked by the students. -The Spur, a literary club in this city, which has existed for son1e years, and has accomplished only the highest social and intellectual attain- . ments for its members, held a meet- ing the 27th of January at the Sec- ond Reformed church. Prof Alex- ander kindly cons,ented to be pre- sent and lecture. He first read· are- . view of five years work of the Socie.- ty, drawn up by Mrs. Dr. Foster, after which he lectured 0n the sub- Ject, \Woman's work at the present time.\ The address was very instruc- tive and interesting and was highly appreciated by those present. -Mr. Robert Graham, the great temperance worker, recently ad- dressed the students at College chap- el on his n1ost familiar subject, 'I'em- perance. Mr. G'raham has labored many years in this cause and coming from his larger fields of work-Eng- land and New York city-his lecture could not fail to produce the desired effect. It was largely attended by students and friends of the college who repo.rt an instructive and able effort . -Some of the Alumni of the col- lege would be surprised to know that the sub-faculty, Elizabeth, Au- mie and Colonel Pickett, are yet treading the path of duty. -Who could walk from North co1lege to his boarding-house on Sun- day morning the 4th of February, without having thoughts unworthy of the day? One could have very well imagined himself a castaway on a floating ice-fi~.ld. Bruised knees and wet cuffs, were the order of the day. -Tom Adams, '84, was in town a few days last week. He has been in Texas ever since he left Union, try- ing his luck on a ranche. Tom looks as if an out-door life and sunshine have done its work with him. He thinks Texas a driving state and a good place for any of Union's boys to try their fortune. -The enthusiasm and activity dis- played by the students to elevate the n ti t4 s p b s i' a r ' f. 1 1 ] l l

THE CONCORDI~~NSIS. liJ ---~---~~-'---------------~~~- ------- - ·------· moral standard and to promote Chris- tian influence in the college, ought to be supported by a11 as its good re- sults are inevitable. The college prayer meetings are largely attended by students and by their efforts new song boDks have been purchase~. Meetings are· held once a week and all are invited to attend. -At a recent n1eeting of the J u- nior class in Physiology, under Pro[ Webster, the Prof. explained in a forcible manner, the causes of the evil results of cigarette smoking in this clin1ate as cotnpared with other clin1ates. The members present have purchased clay pi pes and a package of Warnick & Brown's Span- ish mixed. -At last, the students who worked · so hard to destroy the ancient benches in the French room have reaped the fruits of their labors. New and comfortable seats have now been placed in both Profs. Wells' and Whitehot:ne's rooms. It was, indeed, the loss of old friends not to see those uncDn1fortable old benches in their places. . -The new chairs in Prof. Ash- more's room attest the fact that some persons are very anxious to have their names where they will be :seen. If the rule of $I per name_ were enforced, p·erhaps fewer men w,ould try their skill in carving. The very old saying, \FooLs' names,\&c. would well apply here. -Many abuses are inflicted on the reading-room, one of which -is taking magazines, and a not very speedy return of them. There is one rule of the committee who have charge of the room which we think should be respected, nan1ely, that no daily papers shall stay in the reading-room for more than twenty-four hours. -The time is not far distant~ \VC hope, when the reading-room will be moved from its cramped quarters to the light and roon1y apartlnent in the new building. -The follo\v]ng Gre the subiects for essays on February 26th: Senior-\Benents and Evils of Co- Educa~ion.\ Junior-\Benefits and t-:vils of Property Qualification.·- Soi)hOlnore--''Should Clercrvmen -<:\~_ Engage in Politi,cs ?\ -- Coasting is one of the recrea- ati()ns which engage the attention of the non-studious student at present. Many can he seen almost e\?cry night enjoying them selves \Vi th the most careless glee. -'fhe cry of fire can be heard at aln1ost any tin1e of night. 'There is being so1ne contest as to who shall have the privilege and pleasure of first rousing his neighbor. -Mr. F. M. Serverson, '8 5, re- cently had his over-coat stolen fron1 the hall of Mrs. Dayton on Union street, where he was boarding. The weather was severe and the coat a very desirable one. Mr. S. may no\v console himself vvith the fact that his coat is protecting som-e . shattered frame which otherwise would have collapsed. \Be not weary in \vell doing.'' -In Drder that they might gain a _ better knowledge of the heart, son1e enthusiast.ic students in Physiology lately decided to n1ake the practical experin1ent of dissecting animals of the genus \purp.' Lots were drawn to see who should furnish the beast, and behold, the lot fell upon two dignified Juniors. N DW the-e gentlemen declared tbat,forthe love of science, they would risk the damages I ' -I ,, I

1 I' •, ,. \ I r 4 THE CONCORDIENSIS. of \purp\ hunting;. and so, well ac- coutered, they started upon the per-- ilous journey. Now,' though they ''were diligent in and out of alleys/' yet they \wandered np and down the town,'' even through many hours. Late that evening, these Juniors might have been seen wend ins their way to the hill, and instead of a col- lege song. they listless1 y hummed : '' Thf~ kennel's empty ; Towzer's gone.\ Was great preparation made? Yes, very great preparation_ was made. Was the cry of fire raised? No, the cry of fire was not rais~d. Did the rope break ? Yes, the rope broke. Did the fun con1e? No, the fun did not come. Did the \risin o- b bell' ring ? No, the ~'rising bell\ did not ring. -The entertainment given at the Court House, on Thursday evening, February I st, for the benefit of the '' Spur,'' was a gr~at success. Mrs. J arley, with her collection of wax- figures, kept the audience in a con- tinued state of laughter. Prof. Ash- more and Addison, '83, as \Tom and Jerry,'' have ~on1e to the conclusion that figures of \real flesh and bones\ are not near so portable as wax ones. The students who took part, spent a very pleasant evening. -Prof. Perkins attended the Med- ical Con.ven tion which was held in Albany recently. The Seniors wish that Medical Conventions would come oftener. ·:~ ler6onaJ. ,;, /-'t8. Rev. Satnuel Van Vechten, one of the oldest clergymen of the Reformed Church, died recently at his residence in Fishkill. The late Bishop Potter, of Penn·· sylvania, was one of his classmates. After his graduation ~t Rutget's The- ological Seminary, in 1822, he be- came pastor of a church ·in Bloom- ingsburg, and subsequently in Fort Plain, in this State. I , '1 1 '24. Alonzo Crittenden, President of Packer College Institue, Brook- lyn, died in that city February roth, I 882, at the extreme age of eighty years. The deceased was for many years a member of the faculty of the Albany Fetnale Academy. ~·30. Rev. Mark Carpenter died Nov., I 882. V. -'34. 'fhe city of Hudson, N. Y ., has been saddened by the death of Stephen L. Magoun, one of the oldest and most estee.n1ed members of the Co hun bia county bar. Mr. Mago·un was a native of N evv Han1pshire, and after graduation at Union College, entered the law office of Page &- Potter, bf this city. He then ren1oved to Hudson, where he con1 pleted his studies, and in I 841, was admitted to the Columbja county bar, where he practiced law until his death. rfn the perfonnance of his exten- sive legal duties he was ever active and earnest, possessed a kind heart, and always desired to promote the enjoyment and happin~ss of his friends and associates. His cotemporaries in the legal arena vic with each other in their tributes of respect to one whom they all had reason to respect, both as a

THE CONCORDIENSIS. II5 citizen of a genial dispositiun and as a careful and cunscicnti{HlS lawyer. As to his popularity ~n tile profes- sion, he stood among the foremost of the n1en1bers of the Colutnbia county bar. He was agent for th~ \'ariou:-; Livingstons and landl~rcls of Cohnn- bia county. May we ever cnH1late the ,·irtues o£ one who, amid the duties of his legal life, was ever prepared for the great hereafter, and when his sun1.- n1ons can1e, laid down hi:-, earthly cares and burdens and received, as \Ve hope, that perfect rest and peace which he deserved) _ y/_'40. Rev. Wn1. A. V. \T. ~1abon, who preached here (Ill Prayer f)ay, is now a professor in the 1~hcologi­ cal Sen1inary of the Dutch Reforn1ed Church in New Brunswick, N. ]. He received the degree of LL.D. from Union College last June. // -'47· Albert C. Ingham died re- cently at the age of fifty-three. ~'66. Hon. Edward Wetnple, our newly· elected Congressn1an for the Thirteenth district, rccentl y n1adc \Old Union\ a visit·· {iyrr. We1nple seen1s to have arisen to his present position by his own true mer~t) Aft~r his graduation, h.e turned h1s attention to foundry busi- ness, and became a 1nern ber of the firm of Wemple Bros., proprietors uf the Fultonville foundry and machine shops. By his affability and genial dispo- sition, he gradually won the eonfi- fidence of the people, who first favor- ing him with their ~ost. responsible town offices, sent h1m, 1n 1877 and r 878, as a tnenl ber of the Asse1nbly frot)l l\tlontgomery county. He was five times before, the people of his native town, and each time elected with an increasipg majority. As As~cmblyman, by his S:.cnse Gf duty and sagacity, he became a most com- petent organ to represent the wishes of his people. (Vve consider our people have n1ade a wise selection in choosing an active and enterprising n1an, in preference to one \vho apparently wanted the office more for the sake of having it than because he wanted to improve our laws or properly represent the people. Among his classn1ates \vas Grenville A. Tremaine, who lately died. ) . V\ -'77· The entir~ city of Cohoes was painfully shocked when the news spread that Robert Johnston, Jr., was dead. Mr. Johnston was the son of D. J. Johnston. and grandson of Rob- ert Johnston, general n1anager of the Harmony Mills. Having received the foundation of his education in Cohoes, he entered Union College, where he graduated with highest honors. In 1877, he was one of the founders of the Co- · hoes Iron Foundry and Machine Company, and became its treasurer, which position he held until his death. (_Cob oes can not well afford to lose such an active and enterpris- ing business n1an as Mr. Johnston proved himself to be. With such bright promises of fu- ture success and usefulness, and with so 1nany friends, which he won by his frank, genial n~ture, it is, in- deed, sad to think that his connec- tion with earth are forever severed. Seldom, if ever, has there been a ·funeral in Cohoes in which such deep-felt interest was manifested. In his coffin of rich purple velvet, enveloped with flowers, all uncon- scious of the tears and sobs, and of the despair of his frail you no· wife· . f b ' unconscious o the blasted pride and hope built up upon it by a fond fa- ther and grandfather; unconscio·us that, in the sunshine ot a beautiful

1r6 TI-IE CONCORDIENSIS. winter afternoon, he is b:ing borne from that hon1e always so dear to him, and that the silent, beautiful forn1 of Robert J ohnston,leaves never to return. With sadness, 'he is car- ried through the scenes of his romp- ing boyhood a11d of his later busi- ness activity to his grave. Now about his coffin are placed silken cords, .symbols of the lighter and purer cords \¥hich bound him to us, and he is lowered into a pit oi rose·s by his brothers in ·Alpha Delta Phi. Robert Johnston, the scholar arid. model business n1an, nov..r inhabits the city of the dead. ..i\s students of one C01TII1llOH Alnta llfah·r) we feel the loss of our brother and sympa- thize with th(• n1uch. afflicted 'young wife and fri<.:nds in the hour of their ~ . bereaven1ent.j . /-rs I. P. E. Carhart, who gradu- ated in tbe Civi 1 Engineering class of tg I, has been detailed to this sec- tion of the West Shore Railroad, and \vill be lo~ated at Atnsterdam) where his wife will soon join him. L./·--- '8L Richard T. Lo1nasny is now ·studying law with S. vV. Jackson, of this city. / --'8I. H. G. Glen and I{. f. L an- don are .studyiilg law in Albany. v -'~L Rev. R. S. Winans,. poet for '8 I, and to whon1 THE CoNCORDI- ENSJS has been 1nuch indebted for his generous assistance, js filling a charge in Poultney, V ennont. / '8 1. Franklin E. Abbot was in Schenectady Februaay 1st. He has just returned from the \.Vest, where he has been employed in civil engi- neering.(_ He -vvas on his way to Al- bany, expecting to participate in the pleasures of '8 r's banquet, which took place that evening.) -8r. John M .. Harvey, \vho lately acted as local editor for the Sche- nectady Uniou, is no\v ta_king an eclectic course in college. V~'8r. ] . W. Wiswall, . who has been studying la\v since his gradu-- ation, was recently adn1itted to the bar. --~82. E. E. Ford is a candidate for the \nine. at Princeton. He is the only candidate froru the Setni- nary, and the 1-9th on the 1isL v\'79. W. F. Lansing has given up his law office inN ew York City and is now in Colorado. v/8 I. E. T. E. Lansing is in Little Falls and is engineering on a narrow guage railroad construction . I . v 1 81 G. G. Tulhdge, has stopped the study of Medicine and is now try- ing peach farming) near Dover, Dela- ware. ~8 L H .. S. I.. yon is in Brookli ngs Dakota. (tie writes that his health is m ~1ch !mproved) He is at present deahng 111 real es(ate. ~'82. G. A. P. Codwise is studying law at the Boston Law school. vr8'2. v\/. A .. Waddell is engaged on the State survey. 0'~ l Chas. D. Gibson is in the State Agricultural Departn1ent in Dover, Delaware. '84. L. C. Tally is in Columbia, S. C., having a good time generally. '84. Theodore Irwin has just been married. and is with his bride at his hon1e, Gswego. • '84. It gives us much pleasure to again witness the genial counten-

THE CONCORDIENSIS, II7 nan ce ofT. E. Adams. His business duties do not seen1 to worry him as he apparently could paralyze a_ cane rush or a rope pull. V\- '85. J. A. Yates is employed in a phosphate company near Charleston, s. c. • v'S). J. f .. Countermine is a.t Ham- ilton. \iVILLIAMS. -Pach has sold· about $1,400 ·worth of pictures here this year. . -~Jr. James B. J ermain, of AI ba- ny) N. Y., bas just given to the col- lege $ 50,ooo, to endo'v a chair of Natural Theology, as a n1emorial of his son, Barclay J ertnain, of the class of '74. As the chair is at present occupied by the President, this money will be Hsed in increasing the educational advantages of the insti- tution. ---The \nine\ have been ordered to the gym·nas£u1n. -Prof. Perry lectured on \}'\'ree Trade\ recently, in New York. -The first of a course of Scien- tific .lectures, by pro-minent men, was given January 24th. PRINCETON. -The 'gym.' is very lively. -What about the arbitrary and unjust law in regard to selling o om? -The dates of the Harvard and Princeton base~gall gan1e$ at Prince- ton are May I 8th and I gth. -The necessary appara.tus for sys- tenlatic measuring of men upon en- tering and leaving }:las been s·ecured. -The number of absences at the beginning of the tenn are doubled, .as an incentive to punctuality. -At a mass meeting the college decided to raise a cre\v. They \vill probably row at Lake George and Pb iladelphia. -Candidates for Freshn1an ball \nine\ must begin training now. -Report of base-ball : Receipts ............... $4,200 42 Expenses..... . . . . . . . . . . 3,641 90 Balance ..... . WESLEYAN. -The custom of building fires in the halls is being thoroughly dis- cussed. -The Argus has been fifteen years in existence. The Olla Podrida is sharply criti- cised by the Argus as \execrable in parts,\ and as \wantonly wounding the feelings of others when no worthy purpose is served.\ ..._ AMHERST. -The plans for the new gyn1nasi- um are nearly complete. It will be I 20 feet by 8o feet, and contain a running gallery. -The Olio. is out, and receives favorable comment fron1 the Student. There were ~,200 printe? ·and sold. ..

· THE CONCORDIENSIS, -The Freshmen have a whist tournament organized. -Class day and Commencement appointn1ents have been filled bv ·• election. .... GENERAL. -Richard Boaz, of Reading, Pa., a student in Williams College, is likely to gain considerable distinc- tion, because of his alleged discov- ery of a new method of finding square numbers. By this method he sim- plifies the usual way in shortening the process. At a late exhibition be- fore Prof. Dodd, Mr. Boaz was given a nun1ber of thirteen digits, and he produced the square in less than one minute. -B·ates College 1 at Lewiston, l\1e., has commenced suit for $1oo,ooo, promised by Benjamin E. Bates, de- ceased. -The Vassar College Faculty have changed the weekly holiday from Saturday to Monday.-Uni'l-'er- sity 114agazine. When was the change n1ade? -Since 1868, when Dr. McCosh became its President, Princeton College has received $z,5oo,ooo ~n donations of various kinds-Har1.Jard Herald. -Prof. Wells is about to finish his water color of a male head. It is the portrait of ]'oseph Seyn1our, Sr., and vvill soon be on exhibition in the window at ·Hendrick's.-Universz'ty Herald. · -UNiVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.-1'he Library has received a gift Gf 750 volumes of Shakesperean literature. -The English, Cambridge and Oxford Universities hav ane income ~--~~- of $I ,ooo,ooo each, and each stu- dent's expense for the six months of the acad.,en1ic year amount to fron1 six hundred to one thousan dol a rs. --- Vidette Reporter. -The required class r~etorical ':York at Yale is one essay n rhetoric in the Freshman year, eight essays in the Sophomore year, four or five written debates in the Junior year, and four or five written exer- cises and off-hand speeches in th l! Senior year.-Oberlin Revie7JJ. . -Among the most prominent ben- c~actors of education was John Hop- kins, who bequeathed $3,ooo,ooo to found th~ John Hopkins University at Baltimore. Asa Packer gave $3,-· 700,000 to Lehigh University adn $3,000 to Muhlenberg College. J. C. Greene presented Princeton with $7 so,ooo. The gifts of Ezra Cor- nell and H. W. Gale to Cornell Uni- versity aggregate more than $I ,ooo,- ooo. Ario Pardee has given more t~an $5oo,ooo to Lafayette College Since 1874.-Ex. -There are 2 r 5 professors at the Berlin University. -Ex. -There are 7,000 American stu- dents in German institutions.-Ez. -Over 50 per cent. of our Con- gressn1en are college men.-Ez -\Josh Billings\ was a '37 ·man at Hamilton College. ~Jxtranea. -~-------------- -The Courier·-7our11al rhymes ''Gebhardt'' with leopard-on the principle of bad subject, bad rhymes ·\ve suppose.-Folioa

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 119 A school girl refused to multiply 1 ,ooo,ooo by I ,ooo,ooo, because it was \to naughty.\ -A Yale man calls his sweet- heart Oleo MarE arin.e, because he would not have any but her. · -\Sun moon and stars' forgot,\ quoted a Junior. after flunking in Astronon1y.-l.ff£/liams Alhenaeu1n. 1 his is from one of our Theologi- cal setninaries. Prof. in Systematic Theology : \Where is the lesson to- day, gent 1 em en ? \ Stude p:t : \ ! t be- gins at Good Ange!s and goes to the D \1 \ evr. I~ THE JEWISH CE\iETERY. TRANSLATE!> I< ROM THE' GERMA.~ BY \SPECIAL STU DE~T.\ Oac·= I asked a graveyard-keeper Why the Jews, both old and young. On a grave, wi[h mournful murmurs, Bri ~htly-colored p:J>bles flung? Then the kt:ept•r gave me answer : \ 'Tis in honor of the dead ; Flowers they brought to h1m while living, Stones upoh his grave are spre;d.\ L)ng ago such heathen customs From our Christian lives have fled ; For, the men we stont>d. while living Are hestr ~wed with flowers when dead -A stranger called at forty-eight different houses in Clev~land, and asked: \Is the boss home?\ The1·e vvas no 1nan home in any one instance and yet forty-seven of the women promptly replied, \Yes sir; what do you want?'' -A Boston preacher commenced a prayer thus : \Paradoxical as it Inay seem to Thee, 0 Lord, it is never~he- 1 ess true.\ &c .-Rurr. -· At a fashionable )Vedding in Philadelphia recently, the organist played, \Empty is the Cradle.\ He was retired on half pay.-· Clip. . - ·---------------------- -We are glad that the Acade!n- ica has at last out-grown the long - garments of infancy and now decks itself in fashionable attire. It is con~ densed by the most approved meth- od and prides itself on quality rather than quantity. We would not lose its careful and judicious criticis1ns ; spicy without bitterness ~ critical but not cynical. It is refreshing to turn them from viewing the self-erected models that one meets at every turn. .-The Scholastic has a good arti- cle on the value of the Exchange department, which is slighted or neglected by its Eastern brothers. There certainly is need of a restrain- ing influence on many of. the ten- dencies of college _paper. If there could be a friendly interchange of op1n1ons many imperfections may be pruned away as they are budding.· Then one object of a col- lege paper should be to publish what transpires at other colleges and es- pecially with what sister publications are dealing.

120 THE CONCORDIENSIS. '[he University of North Carolina, publishes a n1onthly, that is scarcely after ·the the manner of Northern papers but merits praise for the amount of matter and the care with vyhich it i.s prepared. There are es- says on \Dante\ and Bacon as a man and philosopher which show that titne an~ thought have ~een given to preparation. ---The Era exp:·esses the sorrow that all courteous students must feel at the \round of abuse\ which the A4cta has hurled at the Era. It all s.prings fron1 athletics of course, but we frust no dangerous weapons will be used. -The Yale Neu.Js and Prittcetonz'an are not agreed as to the result of a game of foot ball. The affairs of 1879 are raked up and furnish an1 usement to the· reader and matter for the Board. Thus the ]arge colleges have the ad vantage, in that . athletics are active during the winter. But when the genial spring doth come the corn- er will be ended and, even small cQl- leges may debate the fairness of um- pires and those interesting questions that now we cannot. -The Inter-collegiate Press As- sociation has assumed forrn, with a roll of nine papers, representing seven colleges. Article [, states the object of the Association shall be to build a social and quasi professional friendship among its n1em bers and to elevate the standard of college jour- rialism, having due regard to local demands and differences The Association is to be represent- ed at each college by a correspond- ing Secretary. The Constitution also provides for an annual meeting, but beyond these the plans are not ex- plained. Probably the machinery that will raise the standard of journ- alism is under the platforn1 ,; at all events it does not appear. -The following v~rses are much in the style, in fact just the thing to take. They first appeared, we think in the Brzuiottian. THE MAIDEN'S ANS\VER. \Ve were gliding with the skaters Out at Roger Williams' Park. And although my feet were chilly~ In my bosom glowed a spark. For I loved the lovely maiden, More than houses, wealth and land; And I ask in tender accents, \Will you let rne have your hand?\ Then the maiden answered slyly, Purring softly like a kitten, \Its too cold to give my hand, sir, But I'll let you have my mitten!\ -I leaned hack in delicious languor, Her head was pillowed on my Lteast; I ier fine mouth raised in sport or anger- No matter, you can guess the rest. ~e'er loved I so, ne'er loved man better Since ·when on earth love first began; For Fanny was my favorite setter, And we'd good luck that morning, Fan! O\'imson.

J-j N ..... Cf) ~ U) z w ~ Q ~ 0 u z 0 0· Cil ::c: ~I WE SOLICIT YOU TO STOP AT THE G-RAND UNION·~ HOTEL, NEW YODX CITY, (Opposite the Gra.nd Central Depot). Families, travelers and tourists arrhing or leaving the City of New .York to visit Niagara, Saratoga, ·vvhite Mountains, Long Branch, or other summer resort~, will tmd it convenknt to stop at the GRA~D UNION HOTEL. First-class in all appointments, elevator and all modern improvements ; European plan, 450 elegantly furnished rooms, reduced to on2 dollar and upwards per day, (also elegantly furnished suits for families) fitted up at a cost of one million dollars. Families, travelers and t;•urists can live hetter for le;;s money at the GR.AND UNION than at any other first-class Hotel m the city. Its dining rooms are elegantly carpeted; its Restaurant, Cafe, Lunch and Wine rooms are ~up­ plied with the best at moderate prices. An elegant Restaurant 7 5 feet square, just finished, where families can dine quietly as at home, and at a much less expense. A number of rooms elegantly fitted up for Dinner, Lunch and Sup- per parties. - Guests' baggage to and from Grand Central Depot free, thus savin; carriage hire and expense of haggag transfer. W. D. GARRISON, Manager. Try tht GRAND UNION. .. ~ ~ 0 ~ ~ ~ (:G ~­ ~ ~ ~: ,.-.. ~ 0 V2 a::3 CD ;:::1 ;:.... 0 l::t:l ~ 1:> ,..t;:l +\ -~ I>:, r-1 ;:.... CD s !'-< 0 1=<-1 '-\ z ...... ::.::: ;I.) ..... < ~ '\\\' ...... - c/) ~ ~ ~ ~ p:::; co ~ ~ -.. C/1 ~ ~ ~ ~ C/1 ~ -< c.._:) ...... C/.J. ~ ~ ... GJ u 0 0 0 ~ m H --f-1 m 0 b w 0 b w .. r.n ~ ., .L-4 ~ ~ ~ . ~ ~ .... ~-1 ~ 'N I..) ~ ~ o;:u ~ c>) ... 'N ~ ~ ~ 'N J) o;:u 'N ~ ~ .L t-..... ~ ~ ----------- ,.. . \\ ~ ...=: ~ ......... \' u ~ ~ ,_..., cl • ,..... r-z:j .. v ~ ...... ~ ~u '.:)0., ~ -t=- <:'I • • ~ . ..,.. ~ ctSr-12 ~ :~ ro \' ,r; N ~ '.:l r:/:J I ~ ~ &5 ~ --;: ;f.~ ~ < : ~ til -~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I ., ~ S 1-1 ·- u \\' ~ ~ cl er: bl)...c 0 \'\'-! v . E-- s:: :r.. ifJ. ~ o I ~ 1'/ ('\j r:n . ..-. ~ :c ' ....-! I-'-' ,..., 'I , ~ • ·~ . ! ?-; \\d ....._,~o,..c:: ........,.LiU~ ....j.....o-) ...J :=:-g:; ~ r-\ I~ cd (/) < .2 1U ·~ I ~ QJ S . I r-- (1) • • t\l p.... ..s::::2rn~ :>en A+JOO ~ 1;,>'~ r-0 ...., -t=- <:'I co ~ : r.,.., o ~~ ctS ~ ... ~ >1-'-4...C: I. \..,) .. <I> t¥J 2 . ,.....; >- ~0 ~::::l~ ~ 1-'\;i-\\ Uzouv~ ~ C)· A 'V S ~ ~- ~c:@~ z Q:): ~ ctl \.J ~ ~ ,...-(i e:s: ~ :.... ~ I ~- ~ ~ \-1:! I u 0 Q l '(/) up .... ~ ~ 0 0 c •rl ~ (l) ;------4 ill OJ () :>- :a-;. ::>;. ~ ~ ---=- c::» CCI a:::: CD ...-c: c::» E'-:11 .._.; CD c ~ -== c:::a -- -== =- .....q. ~ CiS ~ tO:.

l22 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ~-------~---------------- ---~-·------- GEORGE E. VINCEN'1\ GElrT'.3 FURNISHINCr GO,ODS And Manufacturer of THE ANCIENT CITY SHIRT', }lfyers Block, Schenectady~ N. r. CHAS. N. YATES, FURNITURE -AND- UPHOLSTERING WAREHOUSl, Sjeci'al A ttnzti01z given to U1zdertak£1zg. 62 State Streel~ Schettectady~ N. 1\': B. LODGE, Gent's Fashionable Custom Clothing., Boys' Youth's and Children's Clothing. 54 N. Pearl St., Albany, N.Y. BAUM'S CIGAR STORE -AND- NE-w-S-ROOJY.J: Cigars and Tobacco Of the Choicest Kinds constantly on hand. Cigarrettes a specialty. All the Leading Periodicals. Subscriptions re- spectfully solicited. -·-------~-·-·-------~----- --- -- --~-~ /R. K. QU.A.YLE, ALBANY, N.Y., Diplomas, Views, Portraits, Wedding and College bzvitatirms, Cards, Monograms, Etc. Original Designs when desired. WINDSOR RESTAURl\NT, . FAIRFIELD 8a ELMENDORF, Pro:ps., JI & 33 Maz\deJi La,ne, Alba11y, N. V. --------------- -- ~-~------- WILSON DAVIS, Merchant Tailor I5I State St.,Schertectady; N. Y. AL~A~Y ~GtNCY' FOR PoPE M 'F' G Co., COLUlVIBIA EH0¥t0LE~, ALSO DEALER IN <~porting ··:·~ocdo OP ALL· KINDS, W.xgoxPADDOgl{, · 6o State Street, A.lba.ny, ?\. Y. ~1\ FINE LOT ·OF BOOTS SHOES & RUBBERS, Al vvavs in Stock at J. G. SCHUMACHER.JS NOn 267 STATE STREET, (Near Crescent Park) Especial Care given to Custon1. VvT ork. Call and see for vourself. Dr. B. F. Cartllicllilel, DE:I1<9IS<9, 82 Ferry Street~ _Schenectady, N ... y. All opera.tions upon the teeth per- forn1ed with neatness and dispatch. All classes of work perfonned at ahc•ut one-ha]f the usual prices. Teeth filled with Gold, $1 .oo and up-vvard. Fillings other than Gold, so cents. Teeth Extracted vvith yas, 5oc; without Gas, zsc. All \V otk vVarnmted. Patronized by Faculty anrl Students. R. O'NEIL, jl~TI~JIL JilfiiLO~ No. l~A State Street, SCHENECTADY, JV. r. •

' THE CONCORDIENSIS. 123 J. H. BARHYTE, DEALER IN BOOKS AND SljiTIONE~Y Paper. I:langi11gs and Decorations. A FULL LINE OF COLLEGE TEXT :BOOXS, ~Ro1Jl11S papered as Short Notice. I I I State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. ----- ~ --~ ~~- ~- ~~- -- GEO. E. DURYEE, DRUGG-IST, I9I State Street~~ Schenec(a~v~ N. 1. THOS. H. REEVES & CO. Dealer in Staple and Fancy DRY GOODS, Car[Jetings, ~; l Cloths, Etc. Also a Full Line of ' Cloths and Cassimeres. 137 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. FALL HATS AND ~inter· CAPS. The Largest and Best Assortment of Noh by Styles to be found in the city. SAVE A DOLLAR. BEYER tl1e HATTER, I 49 State Street, Sclzenectady, N. Y. ---~~-------- ~ ~ -- ~ - ~- FRENCH & JOHNSON, · ME~CHANT TAILO~SJ No. 35 :Ma.iden Lane, ALBANY, N.Y. W. T. HANSON & CO .. Druggists an(l Apothecaries, Toilet Articles and D1•uggists' Sundries. FINE CIGARS A SPECIALTY. Proprietors of HAN~ON'S MAGIC CORN SALVE, I95 State St., Sckenectady, N. :V.: WOOD BROS., · Large lme of ~id., ~tg~lotl1, .~rr ~l;itlcd ·~lo\fcc AND\ MITTENS. S ~~~-'( :E l~. -Ti S Ready Jlfade and Jlfade to Order. A LARGE LINE OF UNDERW-EAR. All the Latest Style of SCi\RFS, TIES, COLLARS, &c. Goods received for Troy Laundry. I]] State Street, Sclzenectady, N. Y. CONRAD GCETZ, MERCHANT TAILOR, AND DEALERIN Foreign a1zd Do1nestz'c liVooletz Goods, 85 Centre Street, Schenectady-, N. Y. Perfect Fit and Good \V ork Guaranteed. 20 PER CENT Sft VED BY GOING TO LEWIS FELDMANN To have your Clothing Cut and Made FOR FALL AND WINTER. 87 State St., Cor. R.R. Up Stairs. G 0 'I' 0 :~owerc, tl1e l~l1otographer, FOR :SEST l'HOTOGRAPHS. 225 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. \ --~-- --- ~ ----- ~ -- --- ood.Yard. LEIFELS & McDONALD, 95 Fonda Street, near U1tion. Coal Delivered, Screened FROM UNDER COVER, -l'7·~ATxLOWE~TxMARK.E'f)<PRigE~.~·~'\\ STUDENTS! Suy your Co~l at the Nearest Place !

.. 124 THE CONCORDIENSIS. F. DEF GRAY) Successor to J. C. DuELL, Operative an.d Mechanical DENTIST! Office and Residence, No. 47 State St., Schenectady, N. V. ---. ·---------- --- GO TO Ll - '-'fll}\~' ! l.h~7 FOR BARGAINS IN Boots, Shoes & Rlibbers, BARNEY BLOCK, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. TOBACCO AND C'IGARETTES. Only Pure Tobacco and Pure Paper ! SWEET OAl'ORAL. CoRK MouTHPIECE.-Unsurpassed for cleanliness, econ- omy and convenience. The soft feeling of the cork between the teeth makes this the most desirable and pleasant mouth- piece, besides absorbing the nicotine and rendering a cooling sensation to the smoke. Same tobacco as the renowned SwEER CAPORAL CIGAR- ETTES, absolutely pure. The Caporal, Caporal Yz and Veteran Mouth-piece Cigarettes are highly recommended. STRAIGHT-OUT OIGAI\ETTES. This reliable brand is made from extra fine, selected, prime, mild, Golden Virginia Leaf, and is the FINEST CIG- ARETTE as to Quality, Flavor, and Workmanship, ever OF- FERED FOR SALE. Ask for KINNEY BROSs STRAIGHT CUT, KrNNEY ToBAccco CC', NEW YoRK, Manufacturers of the following well-known brands; CAPORAL, CAPORAL }~, SWEET CAPORAL, ST. JAMES, ST. JAMES !~ MATINEE, ENTRE NOUS, SPORTS, AMBASSADOR, UNION CLUB, VETERAN, ETc., ETc. ~Buy no other. Sold by all dealers throughout the world. ---------------··-- -------· W. & L. E. GTJRLEY, Manufacturers of ClV1~ E~GlNBER' & SURVEYORS' INSTRUME~T~, TROY, N.Y. Dealers in Drawing Instruments of every description, Sheet and Roll Drawing Paper, Engineers' and Surveyors Transits, &c., &c. · · ROBEH.T 1~. MOIR, (Successor to J.ohn Gilmour), DEALER IN DOCK~, STATIONERY AND PAfER HANGIN~G~, NOS. 201 STATE & 116 CENTRE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Agency f0r Anchor, Inman and Hamburgh-Anierican Trans- Atlantic Steamship Lines. STANFORD BLOCK. $HOE~ IN LATE~T ~TYLE T'O MEASURE. FIT GUARANTEED r -T~u---T~~·:,=rrJ. --..~ = - ::J = ~--~-·- /'~ \\\ Tweddle Hall ~hoe ~tore, ALBANY, N. Y DENTIST, 2 3 5 ~ State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. A. BROWN & SON, UPHOLSTERERS AND Furniture Ma11ufacturers, I54 State Street; Schenectady, N. Y. L. T. CLUTE, FASHIONABLE HATTER, Agent for Dunlap & Knox Hats. Best assortment of Hats, Caps, Trunks, Bags, &c. in the city IOI State St., Schenectady, N. Y. G. PALMA TIER, CUSTOM BOOT)l'\D SHOE M)KER. Repairing I'romptly Done. 82 Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y

