THE CONCORDIENSIS .. -------- ·---- -·--.----- --.- -- ~ -~ -- ··- ---- ------------ ---:-·-- ---- - ------4- VOL. VI. S-CHENECTADY, N.Y., MARCH, 1883. No. VI. --------------------------~----~-- PuBLISHED MoNTHLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION CoLLEGE. Entered at the Post Office at Schenectady as Second Class Mattel'. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF- JOHN R. HARDING, '83. Literary Department, Athletic Department, Local Department, ]. W. HIGSON, '84. I Z. CLARK. '84. F. BAILEY, '85. E. MITCHELL, '85. - ]. H. VEEDER, '84. Personal Department, Exchange Department, l Extranea Department, Collegensia Department. E. H. ADRIANCE~ '83. BUSINESS MANAGER-A. T. C. HAMLIN, '83. THE CONCORDIENSIS. ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE. SINGLE NUMBERS, TEN CENTS. ADJJlU:SS : A. T. c. l IAMLH\, P. 0. Bux, 456, ScheJZectad)•, J\\': Y: ~ The CoNCORUlE~siS will be fuuud on ~1e at Barhyte'.s, I 11 State Street. Printed by Chas. Burrows, Steam Printer, 187 State Street, Schenectady, N. ··-i. Editorial Departinent, r 25 Literary Departtnent. Poen1, In Luck, I 29 Jim jam Jim, : I 29 Poem, Youth may be Silly, I 35 Advice to Seniors, - I 35 '81 Re-union and Supper, 136 A Communication, - I 37 Local Deparbnent, - I 38 Personal Deparhnent, · - 145 Collegensia Department, - r46 Exchange Depathnent, 147- ~B·ditoriaJ . ..,__<?~--' . W E adn1it that we like fun when it results in no in- jury, and must congratulate the \vits in the Sophomore class for their ac- c~unt of the Fresh man class supper. The use ot legitirnate fun varies the monotony of the college C()Urse, and even the persons at whose expense tb~ laugh is raised, can enjoy the joke. If the men would indulge their superabundant energies in this manner and not in destroying prop- erty, it would be a cause for general congratulation. T HE Senior class has now fin- ished its rhetorical work under Prof. Lamoronx.. (Excepting, of course, the men who have neglected their work.) That the work has been beneficial, no one will deny, and we ought to rejoice that it is as well attended to as it is, when we consider the many duties which fall to the Professor~s lot. We hope that, though it will be .of no advan- tage to us, at some future day to have

126 THE CONCORDIENSIS. a practical elocutionist employed by the college. vVhat the men need is not so n1uch to be shovvn how to use their voices as to be taught how to develop them. A very small a1nount of work under a competent person \vould bring about rnuch itnprove- ment. All the leading colleges have such persons employed, and college n1en throughout the country realiz- ing the need of voice development enter into the work with eagerness. N OT only the city papers, but several college publications have taken upon themselves to se- Yerely criticize the prizes which \Vere offered last fall to the students of Union College. Such cri ticistns often emanate from persons who are ig- norant of the circutnstances of the case. If the aim of the donor in of- fering these prizes was good, as it undoubtedly was, then we see no reason for any such criticisms. For the beneflt of our readers, and to correct the false in1pression about these prizes, we give the facts as they are: The following is an ex- tract from the minutes of the Fac- ulty meeting of November gth, I 882: '' Pres. Potter gave notice of four prizes-two for the roo1ns tnost clean, healthful and beautiful.\ It is un- derstood that the President is not at liberty to give the na1ne of the donor. Major McMurray accordingly gave notice to students~ that four prizes of . . books would be given for the four best roo1ns so adjudged by the corn- n1ittee. Cleanliness and healthful- ness being the prevailing elements, and being required for each of the ·{our prizes; while-two of them had ·the added element of beauty; uol costlitz.ess, which has no essential ele- ment in the n1atter, whatever. For men, however, \:vho have money, there are worse or less usefql ways of spending it than in beautifying their rooms ; so that in case of sick- ness, a mother or sister visiting then1 will find son1ething hon1e-like. No prize is offered for costli11ess-beauty. '!- results from neatness and taste, which ~hould be encouraged always, but in every prize cleanliness and healthfulness are the prime require- n1ents. The poorest occupants in a pecuniary point of view have full claim· and fair opportunity in the matter. All these prizes then are ~ased on what every room should have-healthfulness, neatness and care. As to beauty, the con1mittee n1ay decide that he who does most to make his room sightly with the least means, has won the prize over the costliest rooms, which n1ay be found disorderly and neglected. W E had hoped that childish or rather. rowdyish senti- ment, which is a relic of the past,

THE CONCORDIENSIS. . 127 had departed from the college, but were both interesting and instruc- we see that we are doomed to dis-. tive. Nearly every student who . appointment. The valiant Sopho- mores are doubtless reflecting that they did an in1.mensely funny or brave action in setting up the Freshn1en's roon1s \vhile their owners were miles a\vay. pease d. that we Sophon1oric dignity was ap- vVe, however, -vvish to say believe the best part of the Sophomore class did not take part in. the affair, nor even uphold it. The day is coining, though slo\vly, when a man can live in college, subject only to the rules which he is bound to obey everywhere, and when a per- son who enters a locked room with~ out pennission of the owner, will be dealt with as any other criminal. We sinccr·ely hope that the present Freshtnen vvhen they. becon1e Soph- omores will reflect on the foolishness heard them came away with eulo- gies for the speaker. I'he lecture of Thursday evening, \ Landmarks of Scott,\ we 'think the finer of the two, although the latter, \Robert Burns,\ \Vas probably as good as the subject permitted. The entire manner in which he treated Scott, his works and their influence ; the descriptions of Scottish scenery; the quiet beauty of Abbotsford and its surroundings; together with ,that wonderful and touching contrast bet\veen Scott and Napoleon, all drew the rapt attention of the audience. The speaker has left a picture in our minds not soon to be forgotten. We \vould return many thanks to the · gentlernan, through whose influence Mr. Bruce visited our city and college. Such of such rowdyism, and remember the intellectual treats are most fitting to class below them has the same ri.ghts· vary the monotony of our every day as any set of gentlemen have, and that even by striking them they do not revenge themselves for any ill- treatn1ent they have received from their predecessors: ·If this result is attained, at least something will be done to better the morals of the col- lege. T HE lectures given by Mr. Wal- lace Bruce in the Presbyterian Chapel on Thursday and Friday evenings, the I st and zd of March, college life. I 'T certainly speaks well for the . college that such marked interest has been ,.shown this year in the two literary societies. On every Satur- day morning this term both the Adelpbic and Philomathean halls have been well attended. The im- promptu speeches, orations, essays and debates, have shown preparation and thought, both for personal ben- efit and the good of others. T'ht

128 THE CONCORDIENSIS. joint-debates of last year threw an energy into the literary \vork now being felt by every on e. Tn e de- feated party recognize the fact that though not the fortunate winners of the debates, yet the intrinsic value of the exercise has been equally shared by all. This month another joint-debate takes place. The sub- ject is one of the most interesting which \Ve have yet had. AU the de- baters have been hard at work, rtnd \vill, no doubt, contest warmly for the mastery. All of this we- are glad to see, and feel proud of,. but we would like to ask th;e question~ why it is, that out of one hundred and sev- enty-five students,. only about one- fourth belong to either one of the societies. This is certainly to be de- plored. :\Iembership and attend- .ance should be made compu1s ery, f the student cannot othen.vise appre- ciate the ad vantages which he is thus losing. What college graduate is there who is not called upon at t-ome time in his li{e, either to ad- dress public bodies, or to give im- promptu toasts, or speeches .. ? Then his college experience comes to his aid. There are men here now, who though expecting to lead profes- sionallives~ have 11ever joined either one of the societie~. They will thus leave college unprepared to take up the work in view. Many a man has regretted this in after life. Looking back over our four year~, we can truly say that we value the time spent in the debating halls as among the n1ost precious of our cours-e. . - There are srill many men in. the Sophomore and F'resh man classes not belonging to either the Adelphic or Philomathean. It is never too late to mend, and now is the time for ac- tion. Let every college man think of this as a duty and avail himself of this opportunity to develop earnestness~ brains and energy. T HE communication to the editor of the ( ONCORDIENSIS in this 1ssue cotnes frorn one whos~ experi- ence has taught h lm s.o to speak. \Vhat · he is bold enough to say is certainly the voice of the whole body of students. We would ask, at any rate, that something be done to change the system of prizes for the Sophon1ore and Junior stage. W E do not like to keep up a continual complainL In fact,. grumbling does not pay. But just for a change we wish to speak out plainly on a matter which cer- t~inly deserves consideration. While new buildings are being put up, and our college surround~ngs are gener- ally being in1proved~ why is it, that year after year, . sum1ner and 'winter}' those cess-pools of ashes, slops, &c.,. are allowed to collect back of the

THE CONCORDI£NS.JS. 129 two colleges? Is it not. possible that. the refuse from the rooms could be carried further away, so. as not to be under our very windows? During the spring and ·summer these oderif- erous piles taint the air of every back room on the lower floors. It has often seemed strange to us that the authorities of the college have al- lowed this thing to go on. Can we expect anything better than fevers, when day and night such air must be breathed ..;into our systems? Is the health committee blind to all this? If not, why do they compla- cently let such facts pass unnoticed? Every man in college recognizes the existence of this evil, and will uphold us in crying out ag~jnst it. IN LUCK! 'Twas a Freshman I heard, as I sauntered along, Near a group of his fellows one day, Retailing the glorious points of his class : There were none so intrepid as they. And a Sophomore, too, within half a day's time, By a similar boast caught my ear : His class was the staunchest Old Union had raised, Never were there sllch strangers to fear. Then a staid Junior next raised his dark soulful feyes, Humbly begging the right to remark, That his own class, indeed, was the stnnningest fclass, Full as tuneful and free as the lark. Then I rubbeci my two palms till the skin all came [off, Overcome with exhorbitant glee, Because naught was the need of such transcendent [traits, Oh superlative Senior, in thee ! Ifyoudim.b not so high, why,. you risk not the fall - Which your young brothers ri:;k, don't you see? And 'fis glory enough, as your brothers, to have The most bold, the most brave, the most free. ZOR, '83. JIMJAMS JIM; THE !BOSS BOY OF BOVINE BURROW. A THRILLING TALE OF RURAL LIFE. BY JESSE JAMES HOWLS, JR. CHAP I. THE BOSS BOY. Jinjams Jim was undoubtedly the Boss Boy of Bovine Burro\Y :-even the gossiping old maids admitted that, and furthermore it was a ques- tion whether there dwelt within the limits of that particular town any who cared to dispute it with our hero, for to speak plainly, he was no chicken. His figure was manly. His weight two hundr·ed, and he carried about with him a pair of shoulders worthy of a John L. Sullivan. Upon the whole he was the best looking young fellow in town, and fully capable of carrying out the part of hero in this retnarkable story. Now, Bovine Burrow \Vas a quiet place, although occasionally a little amusement in the shape of a free fight was enjoyed by all, and espe- cially by Jimjams Jim, who entered into the sport with all the pristine zeal which his father had on more than one occasion displayed. It •

f30 'THE CO NCORDIENSIS. ------ ~----~-~ ------ -- -----------~--~---~---------- t11ight be well here to state that our hero \Vas an orphan; but for all that he had never darkened the door of an orphan asylun1. His father's name was likewise Jirnjams, given hin1 ·on accou~t of hi~ having had that disease quite frequently. When our little hero was just :learn- ing to tnasticate navy plug,. the old nice young ladies in the place. In fact, Bovine Burrow could boast of a larg~r n un1ber of pretty girls than any town for miles around. There was Mutty 1V1i1kpai1, the rosiest little darling in the world, with two cheeks as beautiful as fall . . p1pp1ns. Hattie Horsebeam was a very man died, and so Bovine Burrow, beautiful and refined girl, although when it laid in the cold grave the she would sometin1es use such words body, whose jimjams days were over, were loath that so good a name should d!sappear, agreed then and · there to call the poor little orphan by the cognon1en of his lost parent. Our hero was now thrown upon the cruel world at a very tender age, an age when rrlost little boys in his position would have perished. Did little Jimjatns perish? Not n1uch; he was abundantly able to 1nanage his carcass. His first essay as a Boss Boy on the tnuscle was when a lad of fifteen, he literally wiped the black-boards of the school-~·oom with the ponderous teacher, and then chucked him into the horse--pond at the side of tht building. Fron1 that time J itnja1ns became a pron1inent and much re- spected citizen of Bovine Burrow so- ciety. A quiet town vvas Bovine Burro-vv, as has been before rnentioned, but my readers must not get the notion that .on this account there were no as \dry up\ and H git along now.'' Pussy Pumpkin vine was an amiable girl with sweet manners, and was al- ways the recipient of a great deal of attention fro1n the boys. And there were scores of others who.se charn1s tnade the1n as attractive as the above three. Among that host of beauties ·which dwelt in our hero's tovvn, there was one, however, vvhose dazzling beauty had long since placed Bovine Bur- row at her feet, and I would fain halt a·1d grasp nly pen more fin11ly \'ere I paint that lovely vision. I a111 pain- fully aware that I shall not do her justice, but to keep her sweet self entirely fron1 my readers, would be . extreme} y selfish on my part, so whether I fail or not, here goes : Aramantha Anne Strawberries- andcrean1 was the adopted daughter of old Squire Sourgrapes, whose pala- tial residence looked forth serenely upon the town pun1p. She was the n1ost peerless of the peerless, the

THE CONCORDIENSIS. I 3 I daisiest of the daisies, and by far the most beautiful and perfect being that the world, and especially Bovine Burrow,. had ever gazed upon. From the top of her flaxen curls, down her eight-cent calico, to the tips of,her sixes, she was too lovely . ' to live; and then her character was so noble. She · possessed great pride, something every heroine must have in order to a·mount to anything. I merely state this as a ~act, and not becau·se our heroine is going to show this characteristic to 1.ny remarkable degree .. She may not show it all, but nevertheless she is going to have it handy in case necessity should d·e- tnand a little. Never yet had her heart been moved by the advance- ehance to bring it in before long-) \¥ould never allow her to propose to any man, whether that man be Mar- nladuke Porkandheans or Jimjams Jim. The forme!~ young n1an \vho, I confess, has been introduced rather unceremoniously into this story was none other than the edito.r of the Bovine Burrow Budget. _His eyes were _ always surrounded by dark rings, ·which had ·been formed by ,, setting type late nights. i\.fter all it •, does not make any n1atter how he . ~ looked, for he was a. villain of the deepest dye. If you don't believe it wait and see. It was May, that delightful n1onth when old fossils love to crawl forth tnents of her many lovers. In a into the sunshine and bask their \Vord, love's young dart had never pierced her hide. But notwithstanding this, Datne Rumor had been going the rounds in her night gown, (as the \veather corns, when little boys get chills and fever by swimrning in the cold river, and OUr young 1nen have last SUU1- 111er's suit dyed, and haul forth the white derby which has done duty was rather \varm) and .the conse- · for two seasons. quence was that the nan1es of Miss The soothing sun bean: s had pene- Strawberriesandcream and Marma- duke Porkandbeans were talked of in confidential whispers accompanied by eye-winks,. and some ventured boldly to say that a wedding would soon take place. But public opinion is always wrong, and so it \Vas in this case, for although our heroine did not actually hate Porkandbeans, yet her priJ.e (I thought we would get a trated the utmost recesses of Bovine Burrow, and everybody was friski- ness personified, and the result was that parties and picnics were the or- der of the day. The grand affair of the season; however, had not yet come off. The ball which was to take place on the 25th, at the tavern, was eagerly looked forward to by all, and for a week beforehand the Store

THE CONCORDIENSIS. -------- _:_--~-~----------~~~-~-~------ did quite a business in twelve-cent calico and paper collars. It was also understood that the Bovine ~BurrO\¥ Amateur Orchestra would furnish the req cired noise for the light fantastic. Everybody told everybody else that they would surely be on hand. J imjams Jinl remarked wronged him. In a short · time the guests began to arrive. Then came the orchestra, and im.n1ediately there was a tooting of horns and scraping of bows, accompanied by an occa- sional n1 usical thud upon the base drum. At last everything was in readiness. Jimjams J itn had secured to a friend that he would rather miss ' for his partner the lovely A ramantha, a circus than not be present, ''and while the detestable Porkandbeans, between you and me, Josh,\ said he, coldly left, glared upon him from the \I expect to have a large time.\ door way. }in1jan1s Jim and his fair ' Glowing prognostications of the companion were the target of every great event appeared in the Budget eye. He bent his head and mur- accon1panied by a full list of the in- vited guests. }imjan1s Jim's name however was not mentioned. The villain Porkandbeanshad made a .mortal enemy. The 25th at last arrived and found everything in prep- aration to receive it. J imjams }in1 was not to be bluffed by the gross newspaper lie. No-he would be the first guest in the ball-room. CHAP. II. THE BOSS BOY's REVENGE. Sure enough, our hero ·was the first to enter the gayly festooned and briHiantly lighted hall. Directly he made his way to the bar, which he happened to be running on that par- ticular night, and gave the bartender orders not to sell peanuts, cider or any refreshmen.ts to PorK.andbeans. ] imjams J in1 was about to work a just revenge on the man that had mured in dulcet tones, \ My gol, Aramantha, you look awful fly this eve.\ Our heroine was used to flat- tery, but not to the fond voice in which those \vords were uttered. She was moYed, her breast heaved, and she answered in shy whispers, ~ '] in1jams Jim, you're the nicest feller in this her.e town.\ Jimjatns' heart began to kick like so many canal mules, he pressed her hand and the pressure was returned. He now knew that he had touched a tender cord in the bosom of the hitherto in- vincible beauty, and his happiness ~as complete. The music struck up and away they all went helter-skelter in the delights of a country polka. There· was a parson hugging his girl like a bear, and driving around the room ~s if ·he were run by steam. After him tore farmer Jones with a plump

TI-lE CONCORDIENSIS. 133 ~~------~----------~----------~~~~---------------------- little darnsel in his arms, blowing like a gale of wind, but_ bound to catch the parson or collapse in the attempt. What a scamper, what a kicking of heels, what a wild enthu- siastn possessed everyone ! Down they rushed to the end oft he room and became as entangled as a bunch of angle-worms, then breaking loose, off they tore again to the other end, each couple crazy to reach there first. So it was kept up until the orches- Boy had got up on his muscle and his revenge was accomplished. ''I go noV\r,'' shrieked the defeated :~nan, \but beware henceforth of M. Pork- andbeans, the editor of the Bovine Burrow Budget.\ This fearful threat made no in1- pression upon our hero, and he was at once pressed with congratulations for the manly way in which he had ren1oved the unpopular editor. The remainder of the ball \\vas tra fainted, the boys' paper col!ars most heartily enjoyed. J imjan1s and becan1e wilted and the girls' new dr~sses \vere mussed to an alarming degree; then they stopped to rest and r~fresh with cider ·and peanuts. The bartender was nearly overcon1e with the urgent de1uands of his many custon1ers. A,mid the universal up- roar was heard the nasal voice of Pork and beans clamoring '',cider for two.\ But he was not even noticed, by the worthy dealer of refreshn1en ts. \Give me two ciders!\ he yelled in his rage. People now began to re- Aramantha found more than one op- portunity to indulge in those inno- cent little sweetnesses which lovers are so fond of. l-Ie took her home, of course, when the time arrived, and although the·distance was short, the load of cider and peanuts \vhich both carried retarded locomotion to such an extent that they did not reach the garden gate till they had been on the \vay nearly half an hour. \To-morrow night,'' he said, un parting with her, H if I get the milkin' mark his agitation. The answer done in time, I'll con1e around and from the bartender now came, \ I've got orders fron1 the boss not to sell booze to snides.\ The wrath of the Budget editor was something terri:: · ble to behold, and he was just on the point of ~eai;ing the bar and cleaning out everything and everybody be- hind it, when he was suddenly seized by the pants and hurled through a window into the street. The Boss see the Squire 'bout our gettin' mar- ried.\ \All right dearest,\ \vas the reply, \and if he don't consent, I ll leave the old tyrant and set up a millinery shop ; that's the kind of a I..,ydia E. Pinkhan1 beauty I am.'' With a lingering-gingerbread-me~ lasses kiss they sought their respec- tive downy couches. No sooner had they gone, than the

134 THE CONCORDIENSIS. form of the villain Porkandbeans rose fron1 behind a stump on the opposite side of the street, and his nlenacing looks boded no good to the young lovers. CHAP.. III. THE BOSS BOY IN A FIX. rfrue to his pron1ise, the next even- ing }in1jams appeared at Squire Sour- • The Squire's face blackened, and in insulting tones he replied, ''No, it's all wrong, you loafer t What-·· do you. think I'd part with my chief ·- cook and bottle washer ? Who'd wash n1y overalls and cut 111y corns, I'd like to know ? Let her go ? \Vell, I should smile, not.'' ''By the hones of me father Jim- {)\ ' 0 rapes. Ararnantha greeted him jams, she shall go, and that too, with with a lovely sn1ile, and looking to me. Give consent or beware the see if the coast was clear, put up her little mouth to receive osculation. ]imjan1s covered it with his six by four. H Where is the old snoozer ?\ said our hero, as soon as the first joy of their lne·eting was over. '~In the old north wing;'' replied Aran1antba. \Then stay you here, my maple su- gar~ while I b ie me he:1ce to concil- iate the old rascal.\ \Vith these words J imjan1s moved towards the qoor, and after having traversed a quarter of a mile of dark pas~ages, he entered the scanty chamber of the Squire. \ Good evenin' Squire, how's your- self?\ cheerfully remarked Jimjams. u Good enough,. you blacl~guard, what do you want here? Our hero without delay pitched into the object of his visit, and pre- tending not to notice the want of hospitality in those last words, said in his most enticing manner, \Squire me and 1\ramantha want to get mar- ried. I suppose it's all right ?'' vengeance of the Boss Boy,' thun.- dered our hero; but the old man \Vas not to be changed from his orig- Inal standpoint. For an hour the angry discussion lasted and jirnjan1s had 11ot acco1n pli~ hed the object of his missi0n. His very presence seemed t() momentarily increase th'e old man's wrath, and feari11g that in a fit of anger be might strike h in1, he abruptly left the room. He now sought Aramantha and broke to her the result of the intervievv' The poor girl wept copiously- upon his woo1en shirt, and her sobs were piti- ful to hear. \Good bye darling,\ he said~ ,, ru come again before the week is out, and rnebbe we'll elope.'' Hating as he did to leave her, he at last tore himself away, and hast- ened to the tavern. An hour went by ; J i n1jams Jim and some friends were en~oying a social glass, when suddenly a cry of alarm sounded down the street. They hurried out,. our hero at the head, and ran in the

THE c·ONCORDIENSIS. direction of the voice. People came running on all sides from their houses, and joined them in the' race. On, on they flew. Great Heavens) the voice was leading them to the Squire ~s house ! They arriv.ed on the spot and found a goodly nun1ber of neigh- bors already there. Eager to learn the worst, they inquired the cause of so n1uch commotion, and were told that old Squire Sour grapes ·had been found murdered in his own house. Yes, the Squire had been murdered and what was tnore terrible the scrawny finger of suspicion pointed to ]in1jams Jim as his MlJRDERER!!! (To be coJZtitzued). ----·----- ··--- \YOUTH :\lAY BE SILLY.\ There was a maid and she was fair At kirk and market to be seen ; She wore the best imported hair, And used her fan jusllike a screen. In fairy tones her voice would ring, And these her consLant words would he : \That's just too sweet for any thing- I think you're mean nuw, he, he, he ! \ OR CONVERSELY. There was a youth and he wa::; fair, At kirk and market to be seen ; He had a chronic sneering air, And thought all other people green. At a11 the maidens he would stare, He rolled !1is eyes and blat1dly smole ; Upon his lips he had some hair, And in his pocket had a hole. Q. E. D. -~----- ADVICE TO SENIORS. The Senior class has been in a ' state of excitement ever since they begun to study Moral Philosophy. Among the many practical ques- tions brought up by this science is (., The selection of a wife.\ All the term have they been anxiously awaiting the Dr.'s promised lecture or advice on this subject. Breathless with pleasure every one listened to t~e reading of. Timothy Titcomb's letter on the all-absorbing topic. Good, hard common sense that was too, but some of the hearers, who are already engaged, wisely remarked as they came out of recitation, ''It is very well for Mr. 'fitcomb to talk that way but--well--we do not agree with hi1n. ·' The trouble is that those Seniors are not yet twen- five, the wise age for which Mr. Tit- comb advise thetn to wait before choosing a wife. Being interested in the future welfare of those men1- bers of the Senior class we would ad- vise then1 to read the following spicy article. Read and reflect : EARLY MARRIAGES. Nine-tenths of the unhappy mar- riages are the result of green hun1an calves being allowed to run at large in the society pastures without any yokes on them. They marry and have children before they do mus- taches; they are fathers of twins be-

• 136 THE CONCORDIENSIS. -------- __ ____!_ ____ ----------·-----~~---.~--~-----~- tore they are proprietors of two pairs of pants, and the little girls they 1narry are old won1en before they are t\venty years old. Occasionally one of these gosling tnarriages turns out all right, hut it is a clear case of luck. If there was a law against young gaioots sparking and n1arrying before they have cut all their teeth, we sup- pose the little fellows would c vade it in some. way, but there ought to be a sentin1ent against it. It is time enough for these bantams to think of finding a pullet when they have raised money enough to buy a bundle of laths to build a hen house. But they see a girl vvho looks cunning and ·they arc afraid there are not go- ing to be girls enough to go around) ana then they begin their work real spry ~ and before they are aware of the sanctity of the marriage relation. they are hitched for life, and before they own a cookstove or a bedstead, they hav~ to get up in the night and go after the doctor, so frigh. tened that they run tbenlselves out of breath and abuse the doctor because he doesn't run too, and when the doctor gets. there there is not enough linen in the house to \Vrap up a doli- baby.-Exc!tange. -Prof. Staley, who for some time has been troubled with rheumatism appears to he not much better, but this has no effect upon his kind and jovial disposition. '81 CLASS SUPPER. The class of '81 had a re-union and supper at the Windsor restau- rant, Albany, Thursday evening, February Ist. ..:\fter the elaborate menu had been thoroughly discussed, the time was occupied with im- promptu toasts, story telling and songs, until an early hour in the morning. A number of character- istic letters and telegrams froni the boys ·were read and heartily enjoyed. The whole affair was a. decided suc- cess, the only drawback being that so rnan y were unavoidably detained. The following mernbers of the class were present: 1\tleneely, Abbott, Cameron, Lester, McFalls, White, l)evlin, Younglove, McClellan, Wil- liams, Glen. * * Williams appeared in full dress. E. T. E. was not present, but sent special counsel to the boys not to get full. Younglove found himself quite a stranger, but w,ts heartily welcotned. McFalls greatly lamented the ab- sence of Wiswall, who had an in1- portant engagement (a horse stealing case before a justice) that night. A very pleasant surprise was the unexpected arrival of Abbott, who was supposed to be in the wilds of of lVIontana~ Meneely presided in his usual in .. imitable n1anner. He deserves the

THE CONCORDIENSIS. IJ7 thanks, not only o~ those present, bnt of the whole <;lass, for his earn- est labor for the :succ.ess of the supper. The \Dominies'· song was sung with a will, and brought back rnem- ories of former c[ass suppers. Hurrah, Hurrah, for ·s1, Hurrah, Hurrah, for Union ; May future days resound the praise Of '81 and Union. ~ -- --· ----- .. -- --- ------------------------ COMMUNICATION. EDITOR OF THE CONCORDIENSIS :- gard to the case ? The prize at present is a misnon1er when applied to the reward bestowed in the past upon the successful contestants at our exercises. It would be far bet- ter to abolish all prize-giving, and leave the honor of being successful as the incentive, than to insult a man by presenting him with such a nlis- erable recompense as has been done here hitherto. It may be, however, that this is not the fa.ul t of the au- thorities of this College, and that better things may be looked for when - son1e Good San1aritan will establish a suitable fund wherewith to secure The success which has attended proper prizes. But there is another several of your recent efforts to im- prove the condition of the students of this college and to place matters before the college authorities in the light in which tbey are viewed by the students, has -induced ri:le to offer . the following suggestions: We are rapidly approaching the third term and already, doubtless, those who have oratorical aspirations are think- ing upon subjects for orations pre- paratory to entering on the contest for the prize stage. Enough cotnpet- itors will probably present them- selves to make the affair, in a de- gree, a success. But there are tnany who \Vould like to co1npete, if there was an encouragetnent given to those doing so by the authorities of this College. What are the facts in re- objectionable feature in these exer- cises, as at present conducted, and one which lies entirely in the hands of the faculty then1selves to remedy. It is that the professors do not give encouragement and dignity to the contests by being present at them. What is worth doing at all is worth doing well. If the faculty de em these contests of sufficient impor- tance to institute and maintain them they should consider them worthy of their attendance. And yet, besides Prof. Lameroux, who conducted the exercises, but two professors were present at the last contest, and these were of the younger members of the faculty. How can it be expected that the students will take an inter- est in that which the - professors

• I 38 THE C·ONCORDIENSIS. neglect? It seems to me that the - majority of the faculty should not only be present, but also should oc- cupy seats upon the platfor1n. This would certainly give more dignity to the exercises, secure the presence of a larger number of competitors at preliminary trial, and be productive of a higher standard of excellence. Another objectionable feature, and one productive of much grumbling among the students is, the fact that they are in general compelled to purchase all their books of one n1an in this city, and at whatever prices he can obtain. This motto seems to be \all the traffic -vvill bear.., No competition, no reduction, all gain and greed. The authorities of this institution well know that its stu- dents are not young millionaires, yet they, year after year, suffer this to go on without instituting measures for our relief. This may seen1 a small matter, but it is not, as any of the students can testify. The Col- lege Book Store is no help, as its prices are regulated by those of the party above n1entioned. In this case negligence to relieve from, not an actual imposition of, a burden is what I think can be laid to the authorities' charge. DAMOCLES. -The Freshmen were allowed one bolt the day following their class supper. ~ ~-~----~ r----~-- ~-~---~-·--- -- -The Pathfinder-Coon. -The winter's tale -1'he ulster. -Examinations will soon be u po·n us. -- General ,menced. . rev1ews have COU1- -We have recently had calls from some of the Alumni. -Professor Lamoroux has been ill but is now around again. -Read carefully the editorial on the subject of prize systems. -A Soph lately expressed his in- tention of going home on the 35th of May. -There will be no more class sup- pers this year, since the Fresh have had one. -Prof. Perkins lectures to the Juniors three times a week on very interesting subjects. -· Tony Pastor-The clergyman with the eye-glass -and button-hole bouquet. -The Juniors have not yet had a meeting of their House of Repre- sentatives. -When the canal opens, Prof. Staley has promised to take 0 the Sophomore 0 engineers to see an ob- lique arch. -More nuri1 bers of our college periodical \Vere disposed of at the last publication than at any tin1e this year. Success crowns our efforts.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. I39 -·-Junior in heat-\ Professor, what do they generally use here for freez- ing water?\ Prof.-\ They gener- ally -vvait for winter.,, · -lVIajor McMurray is giving the Sophomores and :B\'reshmen lessons in target practice. Taking all things into consideration, they are doing very well. No one has yet been shot, and it cost very little to supply them with targets. -J uui or-'' Tb e machine consists of a fly-wheel which is turned by a crank and- Prof.-'' Did you ever turn one.'' Exit Junior. -.i\ few days before their class supper one of the Freshn1en stated his intention of going to 'Troy to look around the place lest l}e be lost \vhen he got there. We haven't heard of hin1 since. -A pane of glass would not be out of place in the door of the South College bath-roorn, the truth of which is painfully evident to all who have \vash ed there this winter. -'The gymnasiurn is now used by the hurlers of the festive ball, and others who take pleasure in partjci- pating- in athletic sports. Our old friend \Vandey\ occasionally en- livens the scene by his daring feats. -The general improvement of our college home is becoming the topic of conversation in this city. The striking effect of the ne\v structure comn1ands the admiration and praise of all lovers of art. -Scene in Latin recitation-Prof: \What form of the hypothetical period is that, Mr. ?\ Student ( overcon1e by the length of the ex- pression): It's-it's-a conditional sentence, isn't it ?\ -· It is rumored that Judson, '86, is not to return after this term. ~r r. Judson has won many friends during his short stay with us, and all will be sorry to hear of his decision. -·-At the examination at the close of the second terin of the Albany law school the following students from this city satisfactorily passed : H. Glen, Robert]. Landon and Frank Bauder. The subjects of examina- tion \vere : '' Par.tnership,\ '' Bar- g::tin and Sale.\ \Equity \Do- mestic Relations,\ \Crin1inal Law,\ and \Agency.\ --'rhere is a general complaint that the papers and periodicals are constantly being removed from th\e rea_ding room without permission. Now, to begin with, who are we go- ing to ask, Colonel Picket, or the Freshmen? We had the good for- tune to hear a n1an complaining· about this, and talking in a very au- thoritative manner about what ought to be done ; :while in this tantrum one of his energetic gestures exposed the Dat'l)' Ti;nes protruding fron1 his pocket. He was on his way from the reading roon1 to his own apart- ment. -. A bold Freshrnan, not long ago, on taking off his overcoat in the gym nasi un1 to prepare hi I11self for target practice, emptied a pack of cards out of his pocket. The spec- tators considered it a bad ''give away\ on the Fresh, but were greatly shocked. Alas, so young, yet so de- praved l -The Sophomore and Junior classes this tern1. have been doing extra work in· Greek. The former have read tvvo plays of Aeschylus, and the latter two of Sophocles, while last year only one play of each author was read.

THE ,CONCORDIENSIS. --Another room in the new build- ing has been furnished as a recitati_on roon1, and is used by Professor Prrce for mathematics. -~Woodbridge, '86, who was obliged to leave College some time ago, on account of his eyes, has returned, feeling much better after his rest. -· Attention Freshm·en-. It will not be necessary to huy milk, bottles and rubber attachments much longer, for our cows will soon roam the pas- . ture again. -Tl1e Freshmen are already pre- paring for cremation, and if .they do not conduct it the fates will work ao-ainst then1. A coat of n1ail will b be a necessary article of protection. --A few of our students were re- cently requested to give an en~er­ tain m ent at Burnt Hills, for the ben- efit ofthe church, and after consid- erino- the worthy cause kindly con- sent~d. A musical and literary pro- ~ramrne was carried out before a large and appreciative audience. The good people oft hat place amply provided for the entertainn1en t of their guests. who report a pleasant time. -\Ve do not understand how it is tha·t in the Senior year there is put down in \'the catalogue two elective studies each tern1, and still it is al- ways found that all three are obliga- tory. This is extremely annoying to many who wish to take Greek or Hebrew at this time but find they cannot 1 because they have to take them as extras. We hope some change will be n1ade before long. -Professor: \ If you attempt to squeeze any solid body .it will ahvays resist pressure.\ Class smile and cite exa1uples to the contrary. ,.<:.-.o-The tutor thought it \vas rather reversing fhe rule ·when a \Nicked Sophon1ore, in the darkness of night, held a lighted match .in his face to see who he was. -Both literary societies have been doing good work this tern1, and the joint debate on the sixteenth of this month promises to be an interesting one. -At a late n1eeting of the Fresh- man class, the president reported as the result of an election, that Mr. - had been ntagnaninzously elected . -The 22d of February, being the first full bolt this tern1 was duly ap- preciated by all the students. The valiant military companies of Sche-· nectady bravely defied the elen1en ts and marched for an hour or tw through the mud and slush of the streets. The:·e was an evident lack of patriotism on the hill. --The alter-nate thav1s and freezes of which we have had so many this term, gave the can1pus very much the appearance of an ice pond. It has been frozen so sn1oothly several times as to be fit for skating. -The 56th anniversary of the founding of the Sign1a Phi Fraternity was celebrated in Schenectady on Friday, March zd, Union being the Alpha chapter. Delegates · were present from all the chapters, also a number of graduate men1bers fron1 New York, Albany, and other places. ' /-([here were five '81 men in the. city on Monday, March 5th: Devlin, McFalls, Cameron, Wood and Glen. They have all put on a more manly look since their college days. All of the five except Wood are eit~er liv- ing or studying in Albany) Wood is a reporter on the Rochester De1n- ocrat. (

THE C.ONCORDIENSIS. -. We are sorry to say that the treasury of the college has suffered by the failure of. Mr. O'Nc:il of this city. The college trusted in his honesty, but was very rnuch deceived. We have many fellow .:;ufferers in the city and out of it. The Gar11et will not make its ap- pearance this term as was hoped, but will be out about the n1idd!e of April. It will contain many new features, and the brief history of the college by Prof Wells will .make it valuable and interesting to every one. There will be more literary matter than ustlal, and its pages will be full of\ rams,H short and to the point. The cuts are new and an1.using, and there will be pictures of Professors Perkins and Price, and also a cut of the late Clarkson N. Potter, \vho took such an interest in the college. Prof. in English : What typical writer who had traveled a good deal in th'e East, lived in the Primative period! Soph: Oh, I remenlher now, Gulliver] -It seetns ridiculous to call Mrs. Sippi the father of waters ; as well call Mr. Washington the mother of his country. By the way, speaking of Washington, we committed a great oversight last month. February is the regular month for our annual joke about the little hatchet. We groun-d it off as usual (the joke, not the hatchet), hut our con1positor inadvertantly chopped it out. We ax your pardon, however, and w:ill be more careful in the future. -Public speakers are sometimes compared to great and small guns .. There is this marked difference, however, between speakers and guns, that with speakers the less the cal- ibre the greater the bore. -T\vo Freshmen talking about the comparative merits of the poets, were heard t6 utter the foUowing dialogue: First Freshn1an-Cowper, I think, is a very nice pGet. Second Fresh man-Yes, but I I,ike Moore .. First Freshman-·-What do you like the best? Second Freshman-His ''quoth the raven never more,'' is the be.str I think. --Junior, rushing into book store- \ Have you S.oph()cles Electra.?\ Clerk-~' The translation do you mean?'' Bad give away! -\The influence Df the Greek al- phabet on the Egyptian hieroglyph- ics\ was the subject f()r a five minutes speech given in one of the literary societies. -Prof. Ashmore says that Soph P. is too retberial to con1e int() the recitation r()orn thr-ough the ventil- ator. So s~ y we all of us. -Junior ~I went into Bar ... hyte·s store one evening and asked if the copy of The Last Days of Pom- pey, which he had ordered had ar- rived. Old Pompey was the greatest, etc. APROPOS OF FISH AND BRAINS. A bard who bad toiled a long tin:te, Vainly striving to make his lines rhyme~ Soaked his heacJ void of wit In a ma(:kerel kit, An.d his verses thenceforth w>ere s:uUime. . -There is nothing ()f the dead beat about hens; they always ac- knowledge the corn and come up to the scratch with their bills. -Soph in Latin spoke of the '<airs\ of Domitian-rather an ab- solute monarch, we think.

THE 'CON,COROIENSlS. -Rev. Dr. Addison, of Washing- ton, D. C., is here nursing his son through his sickness. -·The rooms in the new building are to be furnished with hat, coat and umbrella rae \s. -The noi<;e made by the steam pipes in the nevv recitation roon1s an1ounts, on son1e· days, to a. great annoyance. --The Seniors having taken an extra hour a week under Dr. Potter will finish up that part of their work at least two weeks before the end of the term. -Soph in English, among the dis- tinctive rights of the freedman in Anglo-Saxon society,· mentioned his power of saying whether blood should be shed. ---Prof. dictatinga lecture in Latin ----<\This fragment dates· from the titne of ;he Kings anq was discovered at Rome in I 778, &c.\ Inquiring student-'' Prof., was it . 8 B C ?\ 111 I 77 , . . . Prof. to class-~' Feel his head.·' --We would not intrude, but we think it advisable for the Freshmen to call out the militia and also to bribe the chief of police so as to have a large squad of heavy· arn1ed \cops.\ A 1l these will be needed o\n the night of cremation if the Sophs carry out t b e1r blood-thirsty threats. -Addison, '83, is sick with a light attack o.f scarlet fever. As soon as the presence of the disease was dis- covered Dr. Pearson and Prof. Per- kins had him tnoved to the rooms fitted up for sick students. These situated in the colonnade over Pro£ Staley's departtnent, are fitted up very comfortably. The disease was not spread at all in the college and there are no indications that it will. We nliss Dan's genial face and hope that he will soon recover without any ,, serious co11sequences, -At a r .. :::gular rneeting of the Christian Union of the college, held Wednesday, the 7th of March, the metnbers adopted the constitution of t.he Young Men Christian Associa- tioH as carried on in different col- leges in the country. The college branch of theY. M. C. A. has been very succe_ssful in the institutions where it is established and ·we hope its in flu en ce \vill be felt here. -In English one Soph mentioned. the Lithuanic race as livil)-g some- ..,w·here in the Gulf of Finland, while another speaks of the author who wrote it. -The present S:)ph class will do wbat no class has ever before accom- plished. Having finished their text..,. book in English they will, this term,. cotnmence Chaucer, and still they find time to \set up\ the Freshtnen rooms. -At a .meeting of the Freshmen class, held on \Vednesday, P. M.,. March 5,. the following officers \vere elected to perfor.n1 their several func- tions on that night for the approach of which they are vvaiting with faint- ing heart, cremation. Grand Mar-· shal, E. L~ Fletcher: Assistant, T. W. Allen; Drun1 Major, E. W. Courtright; Chaplain, W. P. Lan- do.n ; Orator, I... •. J. Little. -A Junior who has been writing some long letters to his father, re- ceived from his pater a few days ago a full set of copy books, nine in num- ber, with the advice that said Junior should imn1ediately con1mence to use them. A fact.

,. THE CONCORDIENSIS. I43 -~-·---------~~-~--------~--------- -Better corn in the ear Than corn on the toes, Btlt corn in~ the bottle · Will fresco the nose. things are new and considered mar- velous discoveries. ; . -· Freddy, aged four, was given some strained honey for his supper ; on asking what it was, and being told it was honey, he exclaimed: \ Hum, that's a funny sort of honey. I'd rather have the kind with holes in it.'' -The ·Seniors paid the annual visit 'to the Albany Observ~tory on March l3tb. Prof. Staley, ~as not able to go on account 0f lan1eness. -We give for the benefit of the mathematicians the rule said to have been invented by a smart Williams college Freshman. It is as follows : The new method for squaring num- bers, invented by Mr. Boas of the Willian1s college Freshman class, is as follows: Begiuning at the left, multiply the double of each digit of the given number by the nu1nber represented by the preceding digits, and \vrite each product under those already obtained in such a way that its right-hand figure shall be two ·places to the right of the right-hand figure of the preceding product. Then square each digit successively, beginning at the right, and place the righth-hand figure of the first result , one place to the right .of the right- hand figure of the last product be- fore obtained, and the right-hand figure of each succeeding square two places to the left of the right- hand figure of the preceding square. Add the columns together, and the result will be the required square : If we represented the hundreds by h, tens by t, units by zt, &c., and then square their sum algebraicly, the different terms will correspond \vith the different results obtained in following the rule after we substitute for h, &c., their true values. Thus this rule which is such a wonderful thing, is but a simple application of algebra, which has long been known. _ As in Williams they study algebra only one term, we suppose such - At the meeting of the Trustees of Union College, held March 8th, Mr. vV. J. Woodward, Colun1bia;. 7 7~~ was elected as Treasurer of the col- lege.- Mr. Woodward is a lawyer of New York city. -The students of the University of S. C. are soon to start a new pa- per. John E. Bacon, Union, '84, who went from here to the U niver- sity)s to be the chief editor. -J. Fox Turner, of Man~hestert England, made a flying visit ·to the United States last fall. He passed only a few weeks in this country, but he tnade a short stop at Schenectady, a description of which place is taken fron1 his little book, '' There and Back,\ as follows : Then on to Schenectady-· where there was a wait of four hours de- voted to home letter writing and a good, square supper. Schenectady will always be tnen1orable to us as a city through the streets of which lo- comotive engines rang a large muffin bell, and then walked about the thoroughfare arm-in-arm with the inhabitants ; the latter now and then apparently coming from under the wheels of the engines like poultry unscathed fron1 beneath the van of a bleacher at home. Fortunately, the town council of Schenectady had left holes in the pavement in which the more aged and infirm citizens could crouch whilst the locomotives passed over them ; so that really every wise provision for the comfort and con- venience of the inhabitants had been duly cared for.

THE CONC'ORDIE.NSIS. -.While the Freshmen were mak- ing merry at their class supper, the treacherous Sophs, who are ever on the alert, seized this opportunity to tantalize th ern. A gang which was never known to d<? a thing on the square crept stealthily to tlie apart- ments of the innocent ones and ob ... tained their fun by destroying per- sonal property and con1pletely ruin- ing the appearance of the rootns. HII{At HIKA! U-N-1-0-N-· '86. JOLIFllCATlON OF 'rHE FRESHMEN AT TROY. From morning until eve11ing, on Thursday, the 1st inst., the trains leavi1ng this city for Albany and Troy contained jolly n1en1bers of the Fresh- men class who vvere to attend the class supper at Troy. Notwithstand- ingthe protniscuous state of the class during the clay, eleven o'clock found them all at Wright's restaurant, in 'froy,. the scene of their mirth. 'The genial manner in which they were 'received by their host, encouraged the boys to action, who immediately gave vent to their feelings in S()ngs, which wet e quite appropriate to the occasion After the usual amount of 1nusic, annecdotes and jokes, they sat down to as bountiful a spread as could be desired& The inner n1an being satisfied the toasts were next in order. More than an ordinary atnount of abi1ity was displayed by their worthy toast ·master, Me Jud- son, in his preparation and also in his impron1ptu remarks. The toasts responded to showed careful study and reflected much honor on the part of the participants.· PROGRAMME OF TOASTS: -\ A fine sample, on the whole, of Rhetori~, which the learned call . I H rzgmaro e. Toast Master, H. S. JUDSON. Alma Mater, - J. M. M,osher '•No spot on Parth .so dear to me.'' Military Discipline, C. W. DeBaun '\'All play and no study makes Jack a bad boy.\ Old Newcomb, F. F. Eiessing ''Stint lachrirnce rerum.\ Our Girls at Home, - 1'. C. Lawler \There is no living with thee,. nor without thee~\ The Faculty, E. J. Perkins ·'There is n..)thi ng on earth that they will not devour, From a Senior in see• l to a Frctshmao in flower.\ Our Future,. - ]. E. Ostrander \The glories of the possible are ours. ,,.. Old Dorp, -· W. F. La Monte \Supposed to be a holy, quiet and virtuous suburb.\ Recreation at Union-Riding;. E. S. C. Harris \Give me a horse! Bind up rny w.ounds!H Our Motto. Elmer E. Veeder '86 on the Campus, - F. S .. Randall \Unrival'd in the glorious lists of fame.\ How w appear, - E. C. Angle \ 0 wad S'lllle vower lhe giftie gie us, To see ourselve:; as otht!rs see us ! n Our Rights. J. J~ Little \ A breath ot submission we breath not.'' Class of r86, Pres. J. S. Dorwillll \Our band is few~ but true and tr-ied.\ · .i\t four 0 1 C1o-ck A. M., the f{)rmali- ties of the suP.per ·were completed, a~d all adjourned to their respective couches, to bs folded in the arms of Morpheus until 7 o'clock, the time appoir.ted to say farewell to their jolly tost. The complete success of this srpper amply rewarded the boys for their efforts, and all are satisfied. --We give below a short e:xtract from the Sophon1ore version of the Freshman class supper : MENU. Milk GrueL

THE CONCORDI.ENSIS. 145 lVlillz. Dried Herring, Lobster Sauce. Hen, a la Tartar. rrenderloin of Co\V, with. toadstools. Mashed Pon1n1es de terres. Stewed ditto. ways manly, dignified and just. His opinions were always frankly ex- pressed and conscientiously main- tained; as a counsellor he. was· em- inently wise.\ September 13, 1882, he requested to be released from the committee on Education,. and from all future ap;'ointments on standing cotnm_ittees. \During . the twenty- nine years of his faithful n1inistry in the Presbytery, he was ever willing to accept his share of responsibility) Milk; Pork on the rind, with cabbages. Gravy. Milk. Crackers and Cheese. Ice Water. Tea. As can be judged fron1 the above the Sophs did not see all the pro- gramm-e. --·-- ---------·---·----- ·-- ··- --- -·----·- ,./ . V.zr. Elijah H. Kimball died March 5th, I 883, in his 82d year. t/''27. Rev. Algernon S. McMaster , D. D., died recently. He was the son of Rev. Dr. Gilbert McMaster, and brother and coli ege classmate with I)r. E. D. McMaster, whose memory is cherished by loving friends in Hanover -College and Mi- ami University. After graduation, Dr. A. S. McMaster taught and studied theology five or six years, and in 1833 was ordained pastor of Galway church as successor to his father, which position he held until 18 38. (tlis successors will reap the blessed fruits of a long and faithful ministry for · a generation to come. He laid the foundation ofhis character in a reverential and abiding sense of his duty to his Maker. \His ripe scholarship and clear, logical mind, filled with a wealth of Scriptural knowledge made him an able inter- peter of God's word. His expositions were always logical and incisive. In the pulpit and at home he was al- v; 38. Thomas B. Sherwood died at Ballston, February 22, I 883. / 43· President Arthur, among the appointments on the Civil Service Commission, chose John M. Gregory of Illinois. Mr. Gregory is f:lixty-two years of age, a native of New York and a graduate of Union College. l-Ie is a la\vyer. editor and teacher. He has served three ter1ns as Super- intendent of public instruction in Michigan, and was three years President of Kalamazoo College. He established the Illinois State Indus- trial University. He has a \VOrk upon political economy no\V in press, and is a man of ability and scholarly attainrnents. \ (, 34· 0. J. Harmon is engaged in the insurance business. For many years he \vas City Judge of Oswego. · t.{s. Andrew J. Perry, recently nomitJ.ated to the office of General Appraiser of Merchandise, is about fifty years of age, and was born in Wilton, Saratoga Co., N.Y. There he spent his youth. Going to New York, he entered the law office of John Mason, and a year later the of- fice_ of John H. Raymond, and was then admitted to the bar. He formed a p;;trtnership with Mr. Rayn1ond in 1849, which was ended bythe latter's death. Jn the ensuing year the Hon. Henry R. Pierson, of Albany, be-

THE CONCORDIENSIS. -came his partn.er. In 18 51, Mr. ·Perry associated himself \vith Joseph S. Bosworth, the partnership term- inating with the election of the latter to the office of Judge of the Superior Court of New Y ark. Moses B. Ma- clay was l\1r. Perry's law partner from I 865 to I 866, and since then he has been practising alone. Mr. Perry served as School Commissioner from. J8 55 to I 8 57, and is now Presi- dent of the Board of Elections in Brooklyn. In 1872 he was nominated as a n1ember to the House of Repre- sentati'ves from the Second Con- gressional District of New York, but was not elected. ~~ r. Perry has taken an active part in politics dur- ing his twenty years residence in Brooklyn. v'63. Geo. N. Burt is a member of Gov. Cleveland's staff. y/;65. John T. Mott is a pron1inent banker in Oswego, N. Y. ~,//'69. Ed·win Kingsly died Decem- ber 28, 1 882. V '79· J. E. McGuire, who moved to Texas in I 882, is now School Com- missioner of Bentham Co., Texas. · '8o. H. E. Shead is in business in New York. '8o. E. S. Godfrey is \the father of a bouncing baby boy.': '8o. Fred T. Rogers is married. V '8o. McNulty has just been given a profital:le and re'3ponsible position on the civil engineering staff em- ployed on the Mississippi River. V81. Herbert H. Taylor, of Brook- lyn, was lately admitted to the bar. ----------------. HARVARD. -A bicycle dinner was gjven to revive interest in the wheel. -The Se:mi0:rs have after n1uch cl iscussion put a crew in training. -Mr. Tanssig 'lectured on the tariff legislation of the United States from 1 789 to I 820. -Dr. Laughlin lectured on the financial legislation. --The decline in the art of song composition is much regretted by the Harvard papers. UNIVERSI1V OF PENNSYLVANIA. .. -The Glee C:Iub is stfll in exist- ence, but its vitality 3:nd merit seem to be a thing of the past. -The \bowl fight\ was won by the Sophs. -A corresp()ndent thinks the present English course insufficient. \The English department ceases to interest the student after the Sopho- more year. ., AMHERST. -The Glee Club sang at North- ampton, February ~7th. -A mass meeting pr<;>tests against the decision -of the faculty in regard to athletics. -Hat racks are asked for in the · recitation roorns. -The late Professor Bateman, of Columbia Law School, was a mem-. ber of the class of I 8;6.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 147 -·President Seelye spends an hour with the . · Seniors every MondC!-y morning, answering such questions as they choose to hand in.' -'The Trustees have been asked to grant educational facilities to wo- men at Columbia. -· The new ball grounds will not be ready for use this spring. -Cornell Sun. -Yale College talks of adopting -a new yell. Anybody knowing of any- thing particularly horrible will please forward a diagram. -The price ·Of board at Memorial Hall, for January and February, was $4.28 per week. --. A ioint debate on the tariff question,· between Prof. Sumner and Hon. Wm. M Evarts, has been pro- posed by those int€rested. --The facultv have been asked to .. ~onstitute the editorship of a college paper equivalent to an elective.-- Princetonia?z. -The amount of money which has been donated to Williams college since Dr. Carter became president has been generally 1nisstated by the press, being quoted fron1 $1 oo,ooo to $I ,ooo,ooo. The exact amount is slightly over $300,000. -Saturday night, February 22d, one of the professors of Dartmouth college was serenaded with horns, his windows broken, and his fence pulled down. Tuesday, \vhen the _ faculty entered the chapel the settees were all besmeared with lard. The- SophC'mores were suspected, and called before the faculty, but refused to answer. All those questioned have been suspended. -An itern is going the rounds to the effect that Hobart CoHege is to be removed to Buffalo. The Geneva Courier says there is no movement in progress to remove Hobart ·College frotn Geneva. It is a legal as well as practical impossibility. H.obart College is richly endowed, and the entire endowment fund would be forfeited if the College should he re- moved. The officers in et);ntrol do not contemplate, nor did they at any titne contemplate the remova'l of Ho- bart. · -President Eliot, of Harvard, says that \ the decline of tl'le minis- try is a recognized fact of the last few .decades.\ In the 1ast century clergymen made one-third €>f all the educated people, and wielded an in- fluence proportionately g-reat. To- day all but one in nineteen of the graduates of· Harvard, and all but one in thirteen of the graduates of Yale avoid the ministry. ------------------ -----~----- ---------- -- --------·-- -One can scarcely tell what the exchange-n1an ought to write now, times are all changed. The criti- cism which usually runs into bitter- ness or wish-washing cornplin1ents is falling into disuse. Ottr cotem- porary gives a historical .account of the exchange departn1ent from the times of long ago. One thing after another has been tried till at last the ruling motive seems to be to produce something thoroughly unique. Not a few have \builded better than they knew.\ The fact is, if any one should be found imitating the styles of a half-dozen eastern papers no lunacy commission need be appointed. rhe case would be evident. It is posit- ively painful to read an ex:change of

THE CONCORDlENSIS. which the sum and s uhstance is Har- vard in as many different forms as a French cook could prepare po.m1ne de terre. 1 t is a sad thought that \Ve are not all children of fortune, but 1natters do not improve by thinking . constantly of the more favored .. However much the. Harvard crew and athletics in general are discus- sed, it is to be hoped that no one \viii so compromise his independence as to imitate even the Harvard ex- ~hange. -'The Vassar Ah1m·ni Meeting was held at Delmonico~s, February 3d. The Preparatory Departm.ent was reported as a heavy burden to the college, and the tneans of abol- · ishing it considered. Influential la- dips \Vere invited to the meeting, '' that they might judge for them- selves whether or not the Alumni were \ prudes.\ The advisability of having the Alum11i represented on the Board of Trustees was brought out in discussion. -A late num her of the ... 4dvocate adds its testimony to the gt=-neral mass against the marldng, system. This is a standard topic, and is passed round periodically. Is any college free from the much-mouthed evil? When we declare our next dividend a liberal reward will be offered for the best plan for re:m.oving this frightful incubus from enervated stu- dents and the regular annoyance from those who read. -Said President Carter, at the Alumni dinner· in Boston.: ·' We are the only college that has prayers twice a day, and we intend to keep it a christian nursery. lt was the intention of the Puritans to keep the children in a christian nursery, but probably the means used wrought out a different re:sult. The bearing of the average student would go far to prove that compulsory prayers have little or no power for good. -We extend condolence to our Amherst friends who, not of free choice, but by a decision of the. Faculty, have so unique a course laid out. The Student contains a drama in which two youths in dress suits, \good boy\ and \saintly discuss the proper sports. One goes out to play ''hide and seek\ the other re- creates himself with his sewing. Probably a member of the Dorcas society. A t~ird char:acter appears who has failed to• graduate because he threw a snow-ball to the janitor. With coarse expressions such as 'bit' and 'daisy blacksheep' pains Saintly \vho finally faints at the recital of horrible stories of nun1ber of years ago. · -· Even at Harvard, seemingly harsh rules are at times enjoined. The Miss. repotts that the young la- dies are strictly forbidden to kiss the professor's children. The dear little cherubs, the children, were in dan- ger of physical deformity from the in1mensity of sweetness bestowed upon them. The distribution of pleasure and pain in the world is alarming. We submit that this would be a fruitful theme for the Anti-Monopoly League to discuss. The inexperienced may be pardoned, possibly, for incredulity in regard to the deformity in question, but we could not have drawn such coEclu- sions from our few observatz'o1ts.

(':\ ! ~~ \\!!i . Vl ~ rj) ·z ,,..,.,., ....... ~ r-. ~ ~ 0 . u z 0 v .t.IJ .. :I: .~ WE SOLICIT YOU TO STOP AT THE GRAND UNION- _E:tOTEL .. . .. ' NEW YO 1X OITV, ( ')pposite the Grand. Central 'Depot.) . Fa•·nilies, travelers and tourists arriving 0r leaving the Citv of Ne v Ynrk tt> visit Niagara, Saratoga, White 11 ,untains, Long Branch, or other summer resort~, will tmd it convenhml to stop at the (; R A:'\ D UNIO~ HOTEL. Ftrst-class in al'l app:)itl.tmen•s, elevator and all modern impnwement~ ; European plan, 450 ~legant1y furnished . r Hllll::;, re ku :d: t > o 1! d>llar and np•\'ards per day, (a's•) elegantly furnished suits for families) fitted up at a cost of on:: n.1illinn dollars. FanTtlies, travelers atl.d t urists ear1: bve t•et-ter fJr le . ..;s m·mey at the GRI\.'\D UNlO~ than at any other first-class l i(>td m th~ cirv. It'; din\.ng ronm.:; are elegantly carpeted; its Restaurant, Cafe, L~mch and Wine room..; are sup- plied wit:h the be!:;t at nwd~rate prices. An elegant Restaurant 7 5 feet square. just finished, where families can dine quietly as at h:1me, at1cl at a much les:; expens~. A number of rooms elegantly fitted up for Dinner, Lunch and Sup- p.:r parties. {. ~1;1.est~~ bagga:ge to and fnm1 Grand Central D@pot free, thms savin; carria:..;e hire and expense of haggag transfer. \V. D. GA•RRis.1:-.:, \1annger. Trytht CRAND U:\10::\'. - ..... ./) • +-' ......., ~ ~ rflJ ~ !\'- ~ ~ (J) ~ ~ ~- ~\T~ ro ~~~ .~ LJu~_U) I 0 _o .~- U [- '\-'' w P=:J. w\.:0~ i r-\\ ~ :~ 0 ~ \.,:) ~ ~ I~ • ~ - 1=1 ,____, . • ~ ~ ____. 0 uN o l:r:l ~ '\\ [- '~ +-' ~2~·~ WG~ ~t>.J ~ ~~- ~ ~ ;:::::J (/) ~ ~ ~-li~· ~ ~~ ~ ~ -~ ~~z~~ w a:> \ rrl '\\\. ~ Q) r j a ~ lU ...._.) .J) :> c:--' r; ~ 1 rv ~ o r- 1 E'j. c::_,::> H 1-1-1 \' ~ ~ .-.r, ~ i-< 0. C/5 .,- r \' ~ ~ ~ Tf\ V) - -=:r:: u .J. l'-.. ::::: ~· ~ ~ ·----- --- ·~- 1--- ,.. ...c: • ...-. 0\' ........ ~\\\' !...-I ~ ~· ,..... ...,-, il) • ,..,.. ~ .. . ~ ...... H . 1:12 0 <:::, 0 {i:-.!1 Cl)C'\1 • ~ ~ ~ I . ~ . - P ~ ..... 13~ z_ :z. C\3 ..... IX& N -;tt ~ r/J. ~· - ~ ~ ~ -;,' .;; ~ < r.J 0 ....si?. r ... .,H.._.,,. ~ ::s ~- ~ :- ~ \\ ·~ S IV< ..... u ~ ... . ell CJI loll.. t>...CO \~ ....... CCI --> E-o J 'J. en ~. 0 ~ --~ o· ' !;i .... \,j '(/). -~ ~ ..... \\\'\' I\\\' .,.s:::; C,) , ~· . . N ..,.. ~ \d .. ~ -or< ~r.:..... ur -+---1 ..:.:! ~ ::;. ·- ~ 1:'\\' ~ c (/)~0~\'.·· ~ ' - -~<1.) ~ ~<1.) ·-= ~ (!). • • -\\ ~ ___.. ~ .......___ ? ~ ~ :n \\\' ~ l/) • ,.---\ ~ ~~ ::..:»u...,~ ·<l.l ~ ~o. u . ........ he'.3t . ..,_; ......, C\1 a:) ~ fT., 0 ~\\'~~ ~ ~ ..... ~ 1..\.J • C1Jti:l.Z3_~ t ~ ~ (1) .s ~0 s:i:::C ~ ~;r 's::;; U:z,U~ \U r-. ~~ Q) A ~~ H Q ..!4'\:il-<~ z m ........ r ·; C eli ,..._ c::::J» ..,. ~ ...... . . (j_) C) ::.J ..._ ~ (l) cd ~ ~~~--..._ ' ~ ~<1.)~ ~ U --\\Cj ....... - oc:nt ~c . VJ 0 ::;J .

THE CONCORDI~:NSIS. ~GEORGE E. VINCENT~ GENT·'3 :F1TB.NISKINq GOODS A iH) Mannfa.:titr'-r , f ~rilE .i}NCIENT CIT\'~ Sl:-IIRT., I .:.:l~1ers Block. Schen.ectady~ N. 1~. .,,_ --~ --·--- -·-- ---~--- --·-------· ________ .,..._. CHAS .. N. YAl'ES, FU-RNIT.URE -AND-· UPliOi.cS!'ERING WA.REHOUS: , · Special A itodi(m given to Undertaking: 62 State Streel. Schenectady~ N. 1~ -- -· -----\ ----------- B. LODGE., (]ent'~ f-..ash ionable Cnsto1n Clothing. Boys' Youth\& and Children\s Clothing. 54 ;~l. Pearl St .. . . -- -------------- -· --- --- ---------------- --·- ------ . BAUIVl'S CIGAl{ S'fORE -AND- NEVTS-ROOJY.J: ALSA~T AGENCY, FOR PoPE M 'F'G Co., COf..UJYIBIA EI<OY<OLEg, ALSO DE.<\LER 1N ~~~porting -::;~ Qiocd6 \0; . ·e..yu· OP ALL KINDS, W.xg,xPADDQgK, 6o State Street, Alhany, N. Y. A FINE LOT OF BOOTS SHOES & RUBBERS, \\ Ahvays in Stock at J. G. SCHUMACHER'S. NO. 267 STATE STREET, (Near Crescent Park) Especial Care given to Custom Work. Call and see for vourse1f. -------- ------------------------ -~ --- ---- . - Cigars and Tobacco Of the Cho:cest Kinds constantly on ha:-d. Cigarrettes a specialty. All the Leading Periodicals. ~nbsc:riptions re- spectfully solicited_ 1,D1~ B F ~ ~ . . Cai~Inichael, ·----------- ----- - -·- ----------------------------- R. K. QUi\ YLE, i I ALBANY, N.Y., I Diplomas, Views. Portraits, 1 1 T-Vedrl ing- and College Inv itatz(ms, Cards, Monogranst l:tc. Original Design~ when desired .. vVINl)SOR FAIRFICLD 8G ELMENDORF, Props, D€I1<9IS<9, 82 Ferry Street~ Schenectady, N. Y~. All operations upon the teeth per- formed with neatness and dispatch. All classes of work performed at ab~nt one-half the usual prices. \ . Teeth filled with Gold, $1 .oo and upward. \ Fillings other than GolJ, 50 cents. Teeth Extracted with Gas, 5oc; withmtt Gas, 25c. All Work '\i\Tarranted. Patronized by Faculty and Students. · 3 I & 33 Maidetz La1te, Albatzy~ N. V. I R. O'NEIL, WILSON DAVIS, Merchant Tailor Ijl State St.,Schette(tady, N. V. Jilt lJl I S5 T T }I I L 0 It No. I24 Sta.te Street, SCHENECTA.Dr, N. r.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. . . J H. BARHYTE, WOOD BROS., Large hne of DEALER IN, EDOKS AND ST).TIONE~Y . ~d, lloth, ~ iitled lloYCo) AND MITTENS. Paper l-!a?zgi11gs and Decorations, .A FUL,L LINE .OF COLLEGE 'rEXT BOOK~, fti JL:Jl :~r ~ ~r\ 5 Ready Made and Made to Order . A LARGE LINE OF UNDERWEAR ~Rooms papered as Short Notice. · - All t~e l.atest St~ le of I .I I State Street, $chenectady, N. Y. SCARFS, TIES, COLLARS, &c. Goods received for Troy Laundry. GEO. E. DURYEE, ·. IJJ State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. DRUGG-IST, I9I State .S'treet, Schenectady, N. 1. THOS. H. REEVES & CO. Dealer in Staple and Fancy DRY GOODS, Carpetings, ~: 1 Cloths, Etc. Also a Full Line uf Cloths and Cassimeres. IJ7 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y~ -·- -- -------· --------------------- FALL HATS AND \'Winter CAPS. The Largest and Best Assortment of Nobby Styles to be found in the city. SAVE A DOLLAR. BEYER the HATTER, I 49 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. FRENCH & JOHNSON, ME~CHANT TAlLO~ S, No 35 lvia.iden La.ne, ALB~NY,N.Y W. T. HANSON & CO .. Druggists and Apothecaries, 'roilet Articles a.nd Druggists' Sund.rie3, FINE CIGARS A SPECIALTY. Froprietors of HA~SON'S MAGIC CORN SALVE, I95 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. CONRAD GCETZ, MERCHANT TAILOR, AND DEALERIN Forei'gn and lJo1nestz'c Woole1t Goods, S5 Centre Stre~t, Schenecta.a.y, .N • Y, Perf.~ct Fit and Good Work Guaranteed. · 20 PER CENT SJ VED · BY GOINGTO LEWIS FELDMANN To ha~e your Clothing Cut and Made FOR FALL AND WINTER. IS7 Sta.te St., Cor. B,'B. Up Sta.irs GO rr 0 loWer~, the lhotographer, FOR BEST PHO'rOGRAPHS, 225 State Street, Sclzenectady, N. Y. N0w Goal & Wood Yard. LErFELS & McDONALD, 95 Fonda street, nea1'\ U1tion. Coal Delivered, Screened FROM UNDER COVEll, ~~·~ATxLOWE~TxMARI{ETxPRI~E~.o%-+r STUDENTS! Buy youT Coal 't the Ne,rea\ rlace t

t$ l· THE ;CON COR DIENSIS. F. DEF. GRAY, Successor to J. C. DUELL~ Operative an.d Mechanical DENTIST! Office and Residence, No. 47 State St., Schene(tady, N. Y. -----------------------~'---- GO T'O. FOR BARGAINS IN B<)ots, Sl1oes & Rubbers, BARNEY BLOCK, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. ,-.eli •• .:J .. · J ') . .,..cz r . .,... il> :_;:~(/) OJ· . ..., )>c... c._ Ul)>> (I)SS: \ ~~~ Q o- _..,. '.· ·_;~ .... ( . . ;JJ~ ,;~~C~~ AN~f·I·~A~• ...: t.tJ .... ·.ex: f- OJZly Pure To{Jacco and Pure Paper I SWEET OA?ORAL, . CoRK MouTHPIECE.-Unsurpassed for cleanliness, econ- omy and convenience. The soft feeling of the cork between the teeth makes this the most desirable and pleasant mouth- piece, besides absorbing the nicotine and rendering a cooling sensation to the smoke.. · Same tobacco as the renowned SwEER CAPORAL CIGAR- ETTES, absolutely pure. The Caporal, .Caporal % and Veteran Mouthpiece Cigarettes are highly recommended. STRAIGHT-OUT CIGARETTES. This reliable brand is made from extra fine, selected, prime, mild, Golden Virginia Leaf, and is the FINEST C!G-· ARE'ITE as to Quality, Flavor, and Workmanship, ·ever OF- FERED FOR SALE. Ask for KINNEY BROS. ST'RAIGHT CUT, KINNEY ToBACCCO c~, NEw YoRK, Manufacturers of the following well-known brands; CAPORAL, CAPORAL %, SWEE'J.' CAPORAL, ST. JAMES, ST. JAMES% MATINEE, ENTRE NOUS, SPORTS, AMBASSADOR, UNION CLUB, VETERAN, ETc., ETc. ~Buy no other. Sold by all dealers throughou.t the world. · W. & L. E .. ·GURLEY, . Manufacturers of CIVlt ENGINEER',, SUa VE~O~S' INST&U,XENTS, TROY,N.Y Dealers in Drawing Instruments of every description, Sheet and Roll Drawing Paper, ;Engineers' and Surveyors Transits, &c., &c. ROBER.T 'f. MOIR, (Successor to John Gilmour), DEALER IN BDOES, STATIOEB~Y AND PAFER. HA~Gl~G:, NOS. 201 STATE & 116 CENTRE ST., SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Agency for Ancho~, Toman and Hamburgh-American T1'ans- Atlantic Steamship Lines. STANFORD BLOCK. ~HOE~ IN LATEST ~TYLE. TO MEASURE. FIT GUARANTEED t ~-=wr,;- -T~ ~-:, L ~- = ~ -· ::J = ----~~-- ~~ . -~ Tweddle Hall ~bo0 ~tore, ALBANY, N. Y Gro66, cqtc> DENTIST, 2 3 5 ~ State Street, Schenectady, N. Y A. BROWN & SON, UPHOLSTERERS AND Furniture Manufacturers. I54 State Street, Sche1tectady, N. } 7 • --- ---~------- -------- ----·----- -- L. ·T .. CLUTE, FASJ1IONABLE HATTER, Agent for Dunlap & Knox IIats. Best assortment of Hats, Caps, Txunks, Bags, &c. in the city IOI State St., Scftenectady, N. Y. ·--------·----. G. PALMATIER, CUSTOM BDOT )}\p SHOE M}KER. ·Repairing !romptly Done. 82 Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y.

