. . The C.on_cordien_sis. VoL. VII. UNION UNIVERSITY, MoNDAY, OcToBER 22, 1883. No. I. THE CONCORDIENSIS, PUBLISHED MONTHLY, BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY. BOARD OF EDITORS: JOHN F. DELANEY, EDITOR-IN-CI-IIEF. ASSOCIATE EDITORS. UNION COLLEGE: R. R. BENEDicT, '8 4 . J. T. MoREY, '8s. PuTNAM CADY, '85. ]. J. McSoRLY, '85. T. c. LAWLER, '86. E. E. VEEDER, '86. LAw ScHooL: B. C. SLOAN. T. E. SMITH. MEDICAL COLLEGE: c. T. TIMMERMAN, '84. J. A. CUTTER, '86. . S. E. ARMSTRONG, '85. ScHOOL oF PHARMACY: I. P. EsTcouRT. A. McFARLANE, B-usiness Manager. All communications should be addressed to P. 0. Box g6o. Articles requested from the Alumni. --··-·---- ------·- -- - TERMS.-One Dollar and a-half per year, in advance. Remit to the order of Business Manager. Entered at the Schenectady, N. Y., Post-Office as seco1zd-class matter. ----------~--~-- -- -· . . W E are glad t~ see such a large Fr~shn1an class. It tells plainly that the reputation of \Old Union\ is firmly established, and that in spite of all e1nbarrassn1ents she is holding her own. J T is a duty which students owe this paper to patron- ize those who advertise in it. They deserve, too, not only because they do advertise, but because they really offer unsurpassed inducements. Help those who help us. THE want of an editorial room has long been felt by the different boards of editors of this paper. The work on a paper can hardly be done well without such a room, where the editors can 1neet and where all the material for the paper can be left. Thanks to the generosity of President Potter, the CoNCORDIENSIS now possesses an editorial room. THE CoNcoRDIENSlS, with the new year., beco1nes a University paper. The different departn1ents of the University at Albany have now joined the college in its issue~ Its form has been greatly changed- for the better, we think; and we shall endeavor to make as much improvement in. the matter as has been made in the form. WE are glad to be able to record a decided decrease of the practice of hazing here. Our local colu1nns tell of the \ Sophs \ salting and putting the Fresh1nen on the table ; but beyond this, there has been nothing in the treatment which the Freshtnen have received at the hands of the Sophon1ores which deserves conde1nnation. Nor are we sure that the ' \ Sophs \ are to be condemned for salting and set- ting up the Fresh. Custon1 has aln1ost tnade these things right; almost necessary. Yet we shall not be sorry when the custo1n dies out, as it is doing, little by little. J T is good that at last there is s01ne cotnpetition in the sale of college books here. For years there has been none, one dealer having aln1ost a tnonopoly of the trade. The consequence was that about two prices were charged .. There is a large profit to be n1ade in the sale of text-books, legitin1ately ; that is, when sold at the regular profit. But certainly it is not legitin1ate profit when a dealer, because he has little or no opposition in the trade, charges twenty or thirty per cent· above the actual price. Schenectady· and Union College, to-.day, stand in need of a good new and second-hand bookstore where text-books would be sold at a reasonable profit. Such a store would succeed. WE regret the re1noval of Prof. Webster fro1n the chair of Natural History in tf1is college. Union has by this action of the Board of Trustees lost one of the strongest tnen of her faculty. We cannot upbraid the Board of Trustees because of this action, for we recognize that they are to be supposed ~o have more knowledge of the affairs of this college than we have, and as eager a wish for her welfare. But we cannot help regretting an action that removed fron1. the corps of our instructors one whom we always considered an ~/t?.f<'~· /7/ v:;.; t.

,. I ; -~ ... ;_' \\ - - •' ,- ·. .• .1'1. '- /, ' \ UNION COLLEGE LIBRARY f. . _, 1 '' /· ,' ·· .. ·:· ;. '\· 1- --:- .. - ... '•, -. ' j,: '; -· \ ,I' , ·'- '. ... ·. .. ·, ., I J ')>~- .\)'·_ . . ... ·,, '- ...-· \ : ••[ ;• ··., '·\· ,. l ! .· , __ \ / I~ ' • .., -,' \ ~ . ; : . ~ ............... - - \\-~ fl' ~· ;::...... \ - ./ -l ., {.' '-\~··\' ,,_. .. ' f< . • I . ~.~. ... r.:--: ; ' ·I ,• ~ .... ,,: I-·-<, ' .:. -··: . . , . . . . I / ,, \' .f ... ·'i \ ,. : : ··\\ ' -~ . .-\ . ., ' I ~-' ·' '.·

' i 2 THE CONCORDIENSIS. excellent professor, a model man. Whether Prof. 1 NOT long ago, in one of the Williams journals Webster's opposition to Dr. Potter was well or ill appeared an article condemning the treatment found~d, it cer:ainly. neve~· interfered wit~1 the work: to I whic~ ~h~ Williams nine received from us during their do wh1ch wash1s n1mn business here. H1s removal1s a 1 last v1s1t 1n Schenectady. We are sorry that we have thing to be regretted. not had an earlier opportunity tG question a few of the T H ~ art of thi1~king on one's feet ~nd at the sm:1e t1me expressn1g one's thoughts 1n good English is acquired only through long practice. The college possesses two excellent literary societies where such. practice n1ay readily be had. For the benefit of those who have lately con1e among us, and those of us who are still indifferent, we would say, that one could not have a better opportunity of becoming a good debater and extempore speaker than that which each of these societies holds out to hi1n. Especially do we urge those who ever expect to speak in public, and also those who desire the use of a library to join either the Philon1ath. or Adelphic. The drill is as good as any received fron1 the college course: and is certainly of n1ore practical benefit. Let not this golden oppor- tunity slip your grasp, but hold it with a vise-like grip. Join before the cold weather comes on; join before you forget all about this advice; in short, join at once. THE Ui1ion College Athletic Association is a new society, the object of which, as indicated by the title, is the physical develop1nent of its members. The association is regularly organized and will be under the instruction of Prof. Cheplin. According to its provisions, any registered student of Union College 1nay become a 1nen1ber by paying an entrance fee of one dollar and signing the constitution. The entrance fee, together with an assessment of fifty cents per term, will be used for purchasing necessary furniture. There will be provided for the use of members several pairs of Indian clubs, dumb-bells, boxing gloves, masks, foils, etc. The society will meet for instruction and exercise in the gytnnasium on the evenings of Mon- day, Wednesday and Friday. President Potter has, we understand, promised to provide gas and necessary dressing-rooms. None but mernbers will be allowed to attend the Ineetings. The association already numbers over 12 5, and no doubt many more will avail themselves of the exceptional advantages offered for obtaining instruction in that department of training college which students frequently neglect. The officers of the association are as follows : President, Allison, '84; Vice~President, Stanton, '85 ; Treasurer, Court- 1 right, '86; Secretary, Burr, '87. remarks contained in it j but ''better late than never\ is our In otto. One of the grievances seems· to lie in the fact that the nine were not 1net at the train and conducted by an escort to the hoteL Did they wapt an ovation at the depot, or were they afraid of getting lost in the intricate streets of Schenectady? We would now like to ask the author of that article if he can re1nember when the Union nine were ever n1et at the Williamstown depot? Certain! y no such civility was shown them the last two times they played in Williamstown. Let the gentleman digest that old maxiln concerning stones and glass houses. Another insult to their dignity was that \ they were repeatedly hissed during the game by a crowd of Union students.\ That they were hooted at once or twice by a pack of small boys, who were silenced as soon as possible by the police, we do not deny j but the assertion that any Union students so forgot themselves, is false. The fact is the Williams nine were so blinded with chagrin at their defeat that they were unable to distinguish be- tween a crowd of juvenile roughs and college students. At the ·close of the ga1ne the Union nine gave three cheers and their yell for their visitors, but the Willian1s nine never responded ; on the contrary keeping a sulky silence they skulked off the grounds as if their defeat were a disgrace. We fail to see how in any way the Williams nine were badly treated. They 1nay not have been paid all the attention due visitors, but of this we are assured, they received all the attention they deserved. The trouble is this: They were de- feated, badly defeated, and instead of pocketing their defeat like men, they acted like a lot of school boys, and the result has been much unnecessary sympathy fro1n their friends and an article in the college paper. At all events it is a poor way to explain a defeat, and all we have to say now is that when the Willimns stu- dents show our nine a little more politeness then, and only then, can they expect better treatment at our hands. ------ ·--- vVhen a fresh1nan doesn't hear plainly the profes- sor's question, he says, in a subdued tone, \Pardon 1ne, professor, but I didn't understand your question.\ The sophomore says: \Will you please repeat your question?\ The junior says : \ What, sir? \ and the senior says, \ Humh.\ c oft Ill: pe1 the po~ pO] Or: thE Th att ou· thE sta pa: mE thE th( an do un de \ th( a < th( pa . I , lS :

, THE ·CONCORDIENSIS. 3 THE CURE FOR LOVE. IMP:R.OMP';I'U. , ' THE cure for love?\ y<;>u ask me, ha.! And I reply instanter, 'Tis found in this : \ Simi~ia Similibus curantur.\ Love won and lost hath its own balm - (Not time to half-forget it : 'Tis strange, but love's consuming flame To quench, I would not wet it.) Then take my homrepathic cure, If you have loved in vain, 'Tis sugar-coated, yet 'tis sure: \Take heart and-love again.'' POSTSCRIPT. And if you ask the warranty Of my thus vaunted art, No writ have I to show ye; 'Tis written in my heart. Bishop, ~ 85. The intervening time he 1nay spend in recreation of any soit_, or in study, as he may choose. On account 1 of the many points of interest and beauty in the vicinity, tran1ping fonns a healthy and entertaining way of spending spare time. At 2 dinner con11nences, and until 3 :30 the waiter is generally very busy. He is again free from 3 :30 till 7, and again after 8 :30. Thus the reader may see that the work is n.either confining nor arduous. 1 For the first year, of course, the fees are not very I great . .,; but in the following years one will clear from ' $5o to $1 oo for his summer's work. Besides the pecuniary benefit, the work affords an excellent op- portunity\ for the study of 1nan ; and a thorough knowledge of hul'nan character greatly assists a young man when he enters upon the business of life. There are, of course, many ludicrous 1nistakes made by green waiters, but this rnust be expected. It is related that one waiter became so engaged in a dis- cussion which was going on at the table in regard to COLLEGE STUDENTS AS WAlTERS.. the derivation of a Greek verb, that he became QN the eastern side of the White Mountains, close oblivious to his surroundings; and the head waiter by the base of M t. W ashington,n1ay be seen one was obliged to ten1ind hin1 that his attention was of the largest hotels in New Harnpshire. Being situated needed by so1ne neglected individuals in another part in full view of the entire range, fro1n its broad piazzas of the table. persons may be seen while ascending and descending I The waiters who have been engaged in this work the rugged side of Mt. Washington. Its favorable \ for 1nore than one year, are able to perfonn this duty position attracts many guests, while it is especially \ in a waY creditable to a professional. Many smaller popular a1nong the elite of Boston and New York. hotels have lately employed student waiters with good One of the prorninent features of this hotel, wh.icl1, by success j but the Glen House was the pioneer in this the way, is called \The G.le~ House,\ is the -waite~s. I r~spect. The wa.iters at the Glen :a:ouse have been These are students of hm1ted means, who are 1n ·1 h1ghly favored this sum1ner by the gift of $J,ooo by attendance at different educational institutions through- I W. H. Vanderbilt. Th~s will undo~~tedly induce out the country. They ~ake th~mselves ~greeable .to 1 . 111any students to try their hand at waiting next suln- the guests, and for their attention are, In 1nost 111.- 111er. _In the near future, we n1ay expect to see stances, well rewarded. Thus th~y are enabled to I stu~ent-wai~ers on~y at all. the f~shionable re~orts; pass a pleasant and at the satne time profitable sutn- · while propnetors will advertise: Dinner served 111 all mer vacation. the dead and living languages. The work leaves them n1uch time to then1se:lves, 1 their routine being so1newhat as follows : At 6 :I 5 they are called, and generally rise at once. At 7 they are obliged to report in the dining-room, when the doors are opened for breakfast. Breakfast co11tinues until 10 A. M.; but the tilne a waiter is on duty depends upon the party on whom he chances to wait. The tables have a seating capacity of twelve, and there are two waiters at a table. Thus each ()lJ.e has a certain number on who1n he must attend as long as their stay at the hotel n1ay last. As soon as a waiter's party breakfasts, he must set up his table, and tl1en he is free until 2 P. M. FRANK BAILEY' '8 5. Chernistry.- Prof. - \J\!Ir. , please hand me that ewer there.\ Student.-\ Sir,?\ Prof.-\ That ewer there ? '' Student.- \ Yes, sir ; 1'111 here~\ Prof.- (Getting his bile rz.'led), \On the table ! \ Student.- \ On the table? \ Prof.- ( Very muclt riled), \Don't you see that ewer on the table?\ Student.-\ I ain't on the table.\ Prof.- (Ready to bztrst), ~' Can you see that ewer full of GAS?\ Student feels greatly insulted, and lea\res the roo1n to lay before the president his grievances.-Ex.

' ' ! I , ' I ' I •. !' ' I , ' • I i I , I \ I I ~ . I I i l I : I t! \l I I \ ~· . , I if t I I l I I , I ; l r ' d I i 'l d - '' ' ~\ . r : \ .'. ' 4 THE CONCORDIENSIS. THE FRESH~'!AN'S LAl\fENT. 0 H, \vhy did I leaYe the scenes of my childhood, \Vbere happy and blithe I roamed at my will; \¥here free to pursue the dictates of fancy~ I wandered thro' valley, o'er mountain and hill. When filled to the brim with nature's communings, The sweet songs of birds, and all of that ilk, HO\v entrancing the touch of the soft, downy pillow, How delicious the repast of sweet bread and mille My mother's dear voice in mem'ry comes to me, E'er ready to soothe each c'hildish distress; When weary and cross, in my cradle she'd rock me, And at morn she -vvould kindly assist me to dress . But now I have none to gently watch o'er me; J\fy soul is a constant prey to remorse; Tl,ro' the day I indulge in sad cogitations, Befriended by none save my kind, faithful horse. At night when I wearied essay to court slumber, Half-dressed I throw myself down on my bed; Dire visions of \ Sophs \ my brain so bewilder, That waking I really wish I were dead. The only sound, as it were, that salutes me, Be it noon-tide, evening, midnight, or morn; Alike breaking in upon musing or slumber, Is the cry of \0 Frosh!\ or the musical horn. So great is the change, I hardly can bear 'it~ Alone in my room I weep in my pain; And could I but get some wings that would hold me, I'd fly right away to my mamma again. Roy. A FARCE, IN ONE ACT. [Scene, the \Lab.\; dramatic personre, Frosh, '87-J uniors 1 and Sophs, behind the door.] ! (Enter the President of the Frosh). PRES.-\ The I class will please cotne to order.\ i IST FROSH.-\ Mr. President, I make a motion that I we proceed to the election of a class poet, and that all the fellows who desire to be the poet hand in their productions to a comn1ittee to be appointed from the I members of the class by the President, and that this ! committee report at the next meeting who, in their opinion, shall be the class poet. (Great applause.) j FROSH R.-\ I n1ake an mnendtnent to the 1notion j to the effect that the com1nittee be chosen fro1n the 1 faculty.\ (Fact.) The mnendtnent was carried amid great confusion on the part of the me1nbers, who were only brougl1t to order by the following speech from the President : \ Gentlemen, you did me the honor to elect me President of the class of '8 7. I accepted the office, ! and will cheerfully perfonn its dutjes to the best of tuy I ability. But one thing must be 1understood and that is, this noise and ·confusion n1usi be stopped. You fellows come in here stamping yo11r feet and smoking cigarettes and raising such a row that it would take the ears of the Q,mnipotent One to distinguish a mo- tion. And furthennore, if this da·n't stop, I shall be compelled to resign 1ny office.'' A dead silence fell upon the assen1bly, which was only broken by this remonsJrance from the rear of the house: \ Mr. President, you always rec:ognize thetn fellows i down front and won't pay any att.ention to us fellows back here. It is n't fair, and we are going to kick.\ (Great applause from the rear \:members and cries of\ Oh, Frosh! \ fron1 the inside of the \Lab.\) FROSH B.-\ Mr. President, I Dove we buy a foot- ball for the Sophs.\ Carried. FROSH B.-\ I move we talk about a cane rush.\ At this a deadly pallor o'erspre·ad the faces of the 1nembers, and poor Frosh B. was 'f hissed down,\ and the meeting was adjourned in great confusio11. (Exeunt omnes \Frosh.\) PRIZE ORATION. THE SOUTH WHICH LOST. T HE civil war of '6I was a trial of strength between North and South, and the weaker fell. It was the inevitable cuhnination of a centu.ry's discord. The sound of political strife fron1 Wa.shi11gton to Lincoln foretold a contest fiercer thari thai of words, as faint subterranean mutterings indicate -volcanic forces and predict their violence. The eruption ca1ne, wrought its devastation and ceased. Years have cooled the lava streatns. Fro1n the crater ll.O longer co1ne the glare and s1noke which forn1erly :blinded our vision. Believing that the war is truly ·<Dver, and that here an1ong us at the north there exi:sts i11 regard to it a clearer judgtnent than once was J?Ossihle, I ask your atttention to the people whose cat::tse in that war lacks the persuasive argu1ne-nt of succes:s. Without at all reviving dead issues, I will take for 1ny subject \The South which :Lost.'' I care not for the cry that she was wrong. [ dernand the resog- nition of her devotion to that which she deemed her duty. Subn1ission seemed a des;er:tion of principles and surrender of rights. We may easily recall the her@()iSin by which the South proved the sincerity of her tnotives. We must acltnire her brave sons who were cleveloped into noble co1n1nanders than whon1 none ha-ve ever been more pure Eur< histc caus the~ patic light story end: s1ow1 fragD lorsv Af . armt, age. an e: men can't Is re men1 thinr n1ad< and: n1ng ment retre; An i born Hj Tot] credi peace of pl Sheri by de ened harvc Soutl 1ng, < thoue The were forth Ask white mock abov~ Laur~ cypre destn the t

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 5 pure, or free fro1n personal ambition.. Even a veteran strewn with tnutilated dead, but none to bury them. Europe watched and ad1nired. But despite aU this, Dying men are groaning, but there are none to re- history tells of no struggle more sad. It was ·a lost lieve their agony. cause from the first. What availed the devotion of Need we be astonished that the South thus stunned the South, the dauntless spirit of her soldiers and the and prostrated has pot 'ere this exhibited more signs patieBt self-denial of her daughters·? As the golden of 1ife and activity? If she 'held aloof from the Union light of this tnodern -chivalry flashes forth in song and it was but natural. Time alone could heal her wounds story, t~e world may wonder and applaud. Eut the and restore her prosperity, and t{me has done it. The end is singularly tragic. Gettysburg is over and I see, night of gloom is over ; the dawn is coming. Yea, it slowly withdrawing across the Poton1ac, the bleeding has come. The dark sulphurous canopy is lifting and fragments of an army which once gained a Chance]- the light of a new day shines upon the South. lorsviHe and a Fredericks burg. At last the eyes of an astonished world are turned After this exterrninative defeat there follow other to the evidences of her progress. She clai1ns a place armies to take the field, well equipped and full of cour- of equality in the nation, and it is granted to the spirit age. But courage alone cannot draw resources fron1 of her people whose swords have been turned to an exhausted land; it cannot fill an empty treasury; ploughshares and spears to pruning hooks. men cannot live without food and clothing; battles What 1neans the welcotne to all travelers fron1 the can't be fought without powder and ball. Still there North? What means this yearly mingling of Blue and is resistance, almost against fate. The ragged regi- Grey about the resting place of the honored dead? ments thinned by death are filled with boys and Nay, more, look back a few months to the hour when thinned again. Need, exposure, famine, death have the nation stood anxiously watching by the bedside of n1ade a skeleton of a once glorious form. Yet it n1oves its wounded Chief. What rneant the thrill of sorrow and strikes with a superhuman energy. But the begin- that shot fron1 JVIaryland to Texas-the sy1npathizing ning of the end has cmne. A final concerted 1nove- pressure of a friendly land in that awful silence? Tell ment, a defeat~ and Richmond is taken. A hurried 1ne, does it not all n1ean that the stonn which lashed retreat. A last convulsive throb of the wasted body. · the ocean has spent its force and the calm has come? An Appomattox. The standards so long and nobly Let us esti1nate her by what she has done, and is . • born are lowered. The South has fallen. Let us rightly judge the past and in every quality which How ciifferently can1e peace to North and South. 1nade a formidable enemy, we wi11 find the assurance To the one it meant exultation over victory, a national of a valuable a11y. credit restored, a con1merce revived_ To the South There is destined to be no confederacy, and the peace brought despair. Invasion had found it a land Bonny Blue Flag 1nust yield to the Stars and Stripes. of plenty; the cyclone passed and left it a ]and of ruin. : Yet the lofty principle with which she was actuated, Sheridan's raid and Shern1an 's tnarch were traceable • i. e., consecration of self to duty, is not dead but lives ; by devastated plantations, deserted vil1ages and black- lives, as I believe, not in brooding and disappointed ened heaps of once· happy homes. Fields bore no • hopes, not in sullen opposition to the tenus of peace ; harvests, the corn111erce was ruined, and in short the but lives in a contented people; lives in an earnest South was beggared. When our an11ies were return- application to the present; lives in promoting the glory ing, crowned with triumph, had we of the North no · of that gover11ment which has her. new allegiance. thought for the men who so bravely opposed us? : If this be so· shall prejudice still condemn her-? The victory was ours. But what ha_d she? Where , Shall animosity still reject her? Answer, sympathy and were her hopes and the intrepid an11ies she had sent fraternal affection ! Answer, justice and n1agnanimity ! forth? Ask the swamps of the Virginia peninsula. Answer, true wisdom that searches the future ! Noble Ask the Chicarnauga-river of death. To l1er the South, rising superior to poverty, grief and bitterness ! white-winged peace came not with healing, but in . Your appeal is heard. Generous North, responsive to mockery. She saw but an angel of death hovering . the ca11, now doubly deserving your prosperity. Happy above and casting his dark shadow ·over the land. Union of such a North and such a South! Laurels she had in abundance, but entwined with FRANKLIN W. McCLELLAN. cypress. Peace, too, but the peace that follows destruction-the stillness that comes a.t midnight over the battle-field. The fight is over and the ground About soo students attended the Martha's Vineyard . Sumrner Institution during this season.

) II 1.1 .r i I I l 'II . I I t f ~ '•' •'H i ~ i :! i , I, I' ; :I . ' 6 THE CONCORDIENS1S\ A WISH. B .- E it mine to love, while life's young stream : ' . Flows sparkling on 'neath Pleasure's smile; While naught may co~e to break the dream, SPORTS. T HE foot-ball is seen on the campus occasionally, but does not awaken as Inuch interest here as in 1nanyother places. The fairy-dream that cheats awhile. () may this heart beat coldly never ! Be it mine to love, and love forever. Be it mine to love, when snow flakes fall, Youth's golden harvest a11 among; When failing ears half-hear the call, Base ball '' openeP, up' ' -with a game between '86 · , and '87, resulting in favor of the latter by a score of I4 to 10; consequently the '87 men are highly elated. To that far home for which they long. True hearts wpat length of days can sever? Be it mine to love, and love forever. Be it mine to love, when naught of earth And earthly things for me remains; When I am gone, with what of worth Will palliate my glowing stains. Here and beyond the sable river, Be it mine to love, and love forever .-Bishop, FIELD DAY. T HE publication of ~HE CoNCORDIENSIS having . been unavoidably delayed,- we are enabled to give the results of the field day contests held the I gth inst., in our present issue, instead of waiting, as we had intended, until our next. Half-n1ile rc'tce- F. S. Randall, '86, 2 m. 26 sec. Throwing base ball- E. L. Fletcher, '86, 349 ft. 2 in. Running hop, skip and jump-E. L. Fletcher, '86, 39 ft. 3 in. 100 yards dash- J. A. Heatly, '84, II sec. I mile walk- G. F. Allison, '84, 9 min. 39 3-4 sec. Pole vault- T. Haslett, '86, 6 1-2 ft. Running broad jump- E. L. Fletcher, '86, 1 7 ft. 6 I -2 in. Egg race- eight eggs in a row, placed at equal intervals, 30 yards from starting point to the farthest egg. The contestant having to bring each egg singly to the starting point - E. G. Hays, '86~ 1 m. 10 I -4 sec. 1 mile run- W. T. Foote, Jr., '85, 5 m. 57 3-4 sec. 220 yard dash - H. V. N. Philip, '84, 23 1-2 sec. Running high jump- E. G. Hays, '86, 5 ft. Throwing hammer- E. L. Fletcher, '86, 56 ft. 5 I-2 in. Three-legged race- 50 yards- G. S. Dorwin, '86, and z. Clark, '84, 9 I -4 sec, Hurdle race- 100 yards, IO hurdles- H. V. N. Philip, '84, ·IJ: '16 1-4 sec. Consolation race- 50 yards-. E. T. Perkins, Jr., '85, 12 1-4 sec. Rope pull between '84 and '86- Decide~ in favor of '84. Referee-. Prof. Cheplin. Judges -C. N. Yates and E. E. Smith. Time-keeper - T. Low Barhydt. Starter-. C. W. Vanderveer. '87 has fifty members. Seventeen are taking the classical course, eighteen the scientific, and the re- mainder are eclectics or use the labratory. Several are from the South and one is an Indian. In cons~quence of the loss of several of our best play- ers, the prospects of our '' nine \ for the ensuing year are not very flattering, althoHgh it is too early yet to decide as to the talent which the Freshman class may develop in this direction. On account of the inclemency of the weather, the members of the Canoe dub have not taken their canoes from the boat house since the opening of col- lege. The club at present numbers eight, and expects before the coming boating season to have its number greatly augn1ented. A year ago the CoNCORDIENSIS bewailed the fact that while other colleges had their tennis courts J Union, so ready usually to serve the interests of her students in the matter of exercise and amusements, failed in this respect. Sin-ce then, however, this health- ful and popular sport has llad a decided boom, and bids fair t() rival even base bait Several secret societies have each their court ; and when all are engaged in games at the sa1ne time~ as they not infrequently are, the catni)US presents quite a. lively appearance. The much talked-of subject of field-day exercises now bids fair, under the auspices of the U. C. A. A., to receive the attention rcq uired to n1ake it a reality. At a 1neeting held by the association, October 3, 1883, committees were appointed to n'lake the \necessary inquiries regarding the most suitable place for holdin:g such exeicises, to solicit subscriptions, receive entries for competition, decide upon the events to be con .. tested, the 1nedals or prizes to be awarded, etc. The con1n1ittees were instructed to make their reports to the association as early as possible. We hope, in our next issue, to be able to chronicle the affair as a decided success. I The '' gym '' is looking rather dilapidated at present, and plainly evinces the lack of proper attention. Since the departure of ''\Tandy,\ its decline has been steady. No longer is heard the warning sound, \ Look out for the shoes,\' as some unsophisticated \ \Frosh\ innocently 1neanders over the horizontal ot pan the I hav of 1 the~ ~ 1' des1 rop 1 dou hav clul 1ne1 ,, g) oth< We con owr til11( ano· witl SlOD whi~ clot \ g) witt ''to the cea~ gyrr sho1 \gy able .able roo ISO 220 On€ Rur Rur Bas1 Foo Poh A of a IS n~

y THE CONCORDIENSIS. 7 I parallel bars, leaving on their surfaces the iinprints of L . !/. FACULTY. the nails in his shoes. pROF. CHEPLIN, ~ho ta~es Prof. Price's place in In the absence of proper hooks, the gas-fixtures College was born In Maine. There he was edu- have been used for holding overcoats, etc., until several cated and received his appointlnent to West Point, of them will require the attention of a plumber before where he graduated second in his class. He remained they will be in a serviceable condition. about a year and .a half in the service and then re- No excuse, however, appears for such wan~on signed. He went to Japan and was instructor in the destruction as is shown in the cutting of one of the Imperial College. After serving there a nu1nber of ropes of the trapeze. years he returned to the United States and became The Indian clubs, too ; where are they? Gone, professor in an Agricultural College in Maine. From doubtless, to find the dtn1;1b bells. Day after day we that place he carne to Union. He is already popular have gone to the \ gym \ desiring to exercise with the a_1nong the students. clubs, but could not find them. rfhis is not right. If Prof. '¥ ebster, formerly of Union, but now of th.e 1nen desire to ·use cotnnlon property, belonging in the Rochester University, will return from Europe some '' gyn1,\ let thetn use it in its proper place, giving tilne during the 1:nonth. Frorn a letter we learn that others, who have an equal right, an equal chance also. on a certain day lte walked .fourteen 1n£les. Either We do not, for a Ininute, suppose that students retnove the miles are shorter there or he has greatly acceler- college property for the purpose of 1naking it their ated his pace. own, but taking it to their roon1s to use for a short tin1e, they forget or neglect to return it. There is Prof. Foster has spent most of his vacation out of another evil connected, as it seems, unnecessanly, town. He has been to the sea shore and was evident- with the \gym which ought to be re1nedied. Occa.-\\ ly benefitted by his trip, as he tells the boys that he sional con1plaint is made that property is removed feels as young as he did twenty years ago. which never returns. Only last season several su1ts of Rev. George Alexander, professor of logic and clothing were stolen from the dresstng roo1n. 'l'he rhetoric, has received two calls to other churches, dur- \ gym\ is intended for the use of those connected ing the vacation. One to New York city, at a salary with the college, and for those only; and the sooner of $8,ooo, and anoth~r to Orange, N. J. He has re- \ townies'' are made to understand this thoroughly refused thetn both. the sooner, in our estimation, will the evil referred to Lieut. Hubbell, who is to have charge of lnilitary cease. If a student desires to bring a friend into the affairs in College, has not yet arrived from San Fran- gymnasiutn, it is, of course, perfectly right that he cisco. The fresh1nen fearfully await his cotning. should do so. But the promiscuous visiting of the \gym\ by boys from the city, who only await a favor- Prof. Price will go to Philadelphia shortly, in order able opportunity to carry away whatever they n1ay be that he tnay escape the severe weather of the winter . .able to secure, should be i1n1nediately stopped. His health has not improved 1nuch. FASTEST RECORDS. Eve11i. N ati'onality of wi1mer. I oo yards dash, American, I 5o yards dash, An1erican, 2 20 yards dash, American, One 1nile run, English, Running long jump, Irish, Running high jun1p, Irish, Base ball throw, American, Foot baH kick, Scotch, Pole vault, English, Time. 9 1-4 sec. 15 sec. 22 r-2 sec. 4 m. r6 1-5 sec. 23 feet r r-2 inch. 6 feet 3 3-4 inch. 400 ft. 7 I- 2 inch. I 8 7 feet Io inch. I r feet 4 r -2 inch. A bald-headed man who has heard that the hairs of a man's head are numbered, wants to know if there is no place where he can obtain the back numbers. Prof. Whitehorne greets all the boys with a sn1ile, and is as hale and hearty as ever. Prof. Ashmore spent his vacation at the Adiron- dacks and at the sea shore. • Prof. Hollis spent a part of his vacation among th~ Adirondacks. Major McMurray has been sent to Astoria. \ Yottnger sister.-\ Miss Jones told us to-day, i11 school, that young people who read Byron lose all their freshness. Have we a copy in the house, Mary?'' Mary.-\ Yes, Clara; why?\ Clara.-\ I want to read son1e to Ton1 before he goes back to college.\ - Chaff.

8 THE CONCORDIENSIS. LOCALS. WELCOME '87. · Here we are again with THE CoNCORDIENSIS. Perkins, '86, has left college. vV. G. ShaibJe, '86, h.as re-entered college. Get out your overcoats, and get in your coal. Look at THE CoNCORDIENSIS and see what you think of it. The freshn1an class is described as a \bully good class.\ '86 has three new 1nen1bers- H. Vv. Veeder, E. G. Hayes, T. Haslett. Prof. Price has been obliged to stop teaching on account of ill-health. Will somebody inform the inquiring Fresh why they call Anable \ Tute ? \ The \ Evening Star'' describes the revel of the So phs in the gymnasiu1n as ''all hell let loose.'' Judging fro1n the nutnber of\ bolts,\ the county fair 1nust have been well attended by students. Rev. Wm. E. Griffis is filling the chair in Meta- physics, formerly occupied by Prof. Webster. The Freslunen beat the Sopho1nores in a gatne of base-ball on the can1pus by a 'score of 14 to ro. The sophon1ores con11nenced their anal ytics this term with Prof. Cheplin, the successor to Prof. Price. vW e. Inple, '86, is teaching school in Scotia. l ~r\ W etnple came over and made us a short call last weel)l. The following 1nen have left Union and entered Willian1s: A. Halsey, '85; A. W. Wheeler, '86; E. J. Wheeler, '85. The junior engineers are delving into Bartlett's Mechanics under Prof. Cheplin. Hitherto it has been taken as second term's work. this tern1, and abnost every night witnesses one of their revels at the expense of so1ne \poor Freshman.\ Soph.- Freshn1an, where are those peaches which . you protnised to bring? Fresh.-. \ Couldn't get any good ones. Pa went all over the city to look for the1n.\ Addison, '83, at present in attendance at Harvard, was here lately on a short vacation. In addition to his theological studies, he is pursuing so1ne in the uni- versity course. We wish hin1 success. The freshn1en n1ust be 1nen of business ; they have held two class tneetings since the beginning of the tenn. At their first n1eeting the following officers were elected : President, G. L. Flanders; Vice-Presi- dent, W. P. Brown; Secretary, J. E. Kelly; Treasurer, G. E. Wentworth; B. B. Director, H. S. ~scourt. A 1noven1ent is on foot mnong the juniors to have a house of representatives in connection with the senior . senate. A comn1ittee has been appointed to wait on Prof. StaJey and report concerning the 1natter. Student-Why doesn't the n1oonlight strean1 over the water as it did when we were farther up the river?\ Maiden.- Because we are neq.rer the 1noon now and the light co1nes down perpendicularly. .. The canoe club forn1ed last year is now in a flourish- ing condition. Eyery day the boats are in use, and the me1nbers agree that 1nore pleasure and profit can be obtained fron1 this departn1ent of college athletics than fron1 anv other. \ \ Did Foote go out sailing in his canoe?\ \ He did.\ \ Did the wind capsize hiln?\ \ It did.\ \ Did he get wet? \ \ He did.\ \ Did he clirnb on the boat with his coat tails floating grandly out behind, and paddle to shore?\ \ He did.\ \He did.\ Much of the success of the last prize speaking was 1 due to the efforts of Prof. Goewey of the Albany High : School, who trained the competitors. 1 A petition to the president and faculty is being cir- culated throughout the college. The petition asks for the discontinUJ.ance of chapel on Saturday 1norning, and is signed by nearly all, if not all, of the students. We hope it will be well considered, and obtain its desired result. During the vacation several of the men1bers took their boats with then1, and have returned with nothing but praises for the way in which they were carried through storn1 and flood, whirlpool and rapid~. One took a cruise about New York harbor ; another haunted the waters of Lake Champlain; another took a trip up the Erie canal, and returned by the Mohawk river. Perkins, '85, has just returned. During vacation he held a responsible position in connection with the Louis- ville Exhibition. \Perk is genial as ever. I At a meeting of the Faculty it was decided that any , further demonstration on the part of the Sopho1nores : would be considered a matter for discipline. The sophomores have been well feasted on fruits A few nights since a cotnpany of Sophs marched . down street to the music of the tin-horn, and made a . raJ th ,, s th< pu JO] SOJ off we ho off pr1 do H: of H: re1 '8L ' Be an thi sh sal sa] co be gr< ev 'th let: co . IS ap ag ab ffi( re( pr1 Wt As ga fet

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 9 I raid on the freshmen. After collecting several of i off, but the Sophs were not to be foiled so easily, and I them, they agai~ marched back to the colleg~ and j started to bring ~iin back. In a few ~inutes _ the pro- ,, set thein up\ In the \gytn.\ At the conclusion of 1 fessor was astonished to hear the tnusic of the hand- the ceremony Freshie was given a bottle of n1ilk and , organ in the rear of the building. The professor I put to bed, after which he was left to dream of the ; quickly picked up his hat and in an instant had jtnnped joys of college life. 1 fro1n the window to the ground below, Inuch to the After much electioneering and 111 a; 1 reuvering the i atnusement of the shouting Sophs. The professor sophotnores have succeeded in electing their class i waved his fist before the vagabond's nose, and from officers. They have in each case elected men who, all appearances gave him to understand that the way we believe, will do their duty faithfully. Hereafter, to safety lay in a speedy retreat. This he did and the however, we hope there will be less_ wrangling for class professor returned to his rooin in his usual 1nood. offices. The officers for this year are : F. W. Skinner, - --------- -- ------ --- ---- president; G. H. Case, vice-president; W. P. Lan- WHAT THE CONCORDIENSIS WOULD LIKE TO don, secretary; L. ~~Felthousen, treasurer; E. S. C. KNOW. Harris, B. B. director. . HOW you like the paper? What the fresh1nen did with their half barrel of The Adelphic Literary society elected a new corps of officers on the 6th inst., as follows : President, J. W. Higson, '84 ; vice-president, C. A. Cockroft, '84; sec- retary, E. S. C. Harris, '86 ; treasurer, J. S. Bishop, '81; engrossing clerk, S. F. Leo, '84; advocate, Dow Beek1nan, '84; librarian, H. G. Porcher, '84. On the sa1ne day the Philo1nathians elected officers as follows : President, R. R. Benedict, 'S4 ; vice-president, J. J. Ke1np, '84; treasurer, J. B. Duffie, '85; secretary, T. H. Foote, '86; librarian, W. T. Foote, '85. The salting of freshtnen is a time-honored custom, and in every college salt is considered to be the one thing necessary for fresh11ess. The sophon1ores have shown no inclination to let this custotn decline ; and if salt has not lost its savor, the freshmen were thoroughly salted. The sophomores met them face to face while coining out of chapel, and for a time the Freshies were bewildered. Then they came boldly forth and were greeted by a shower of salt, which burst forth fro In every side and whitened .the ground on all sides. When 'their am1nunition was e:xhausted the Sophs departed, leaving the freshn1en to brush off the salt as best they could. The appearance of a hand-organ about the colleges is an unusual occurrence ; and when one does make its appearance it is the signal for soine fun. A few days ago soine bad Sophs sighted one of these instruments about the colleges, and for a few nickels induced its manipulator to strike up a tune at the door of Freshie's recitation roon1. When he had played a few notes the professor came out and infonned him that his services were not required. He was finally directed to Prof. Ashmore's roo1n. The J)l·ofessor saw hiln coining and gave him seven cents, and requested him not to inter- fere with his work. The n1usician assented and started salt? Where the Indian clubs and dumb-bells are that , belong to the \ gyin ? '' Who will be the University pitcher? What becan1e of the exhibition the Canoe club were to give? Why so many seniors take French? Where the reading-room is? If there will be a college fair? How n1uch Prof. A gave the organ grinder? Who is the college dude? What punishment the student deserves who will not subscribe for fiye copies of this paper? Who received the Potter prize for the neatest roo1n? . COLLEQE NEWS. THE corner stone of the new \ gym,\ at A1nherst, was laid October r 3th. The Freshman class at Dartmouth numbers 99 ; at Williams, 86; at Lehigh University, 105 ; at A1nherst, only 64. Professor Painter, -of Roanoke College, Virginia, joins Francis Adams, Jr., in the crusade against Greek and Latin. Sanscrit, taught by Mr. Smythe, is an1ong the Senior electives at. Williams College this year, and is taken by one student. There were ninety-five applicants for adtnission to the class of '87 at Columbia. Sixty-five of these were fro1n New York city. Thirteen were adtnitted without condition. The following is the circulation of the leading Ameri- can college papers: The Dartmouth, r,o3o; Tnftonian, r,ooo; Yale Courant, 85o; Yale News, 650; Lan1-

10 THE CONCORDIENSIS. poon, 700; Harvard Advocate, 450 ; Athenreum, 6oo ; ' PERSONALS. Princetonian, 7 2 5 ; Amherst Student, 62 5. 1 [Communications concerning any of the alumni will be gladly Oberlin College has established a chair· of Political ; received and inserted in these columns.] ~cono1ny and International Law, a:1d has called. t? fiB , · 'zo, George Curtis is seriously ill at his home. He It Mr. }an1es Monroe, fonnerly Un1ted States m1n1ster I and Dr. Hickok are the sole survivors of this distin- to Brazil. i guished class. The Atkena;um says: ''The success of the perform- I .{ p· f St h AI d d\ d \,('24. · · ro . · ep en exan er 1e · at Princeton, ances of the 'Ajax,' at Cambridge, have been so great N.J., June 25th, r883, two days before the last com- that the '~Birds' of Aristophanes will be produced in mencement of Union College. He was born and roug t up In Schenectady, his family residing in next October term.'' b h · The post-graduate department of Yale College wil!l embrace this year a course of study on railroads and their growth, shipping and international trade, stocks, and the effects of speculation on the money market. State street, on the site now occupied by De Forest's furniture rooms. After graduating he became Profes- sor of Mathematics in the celebrated Polytechnic Insti- tute established at Chatenango by Rev. Dr. Andrew , Yates, who had been Professor of Languages and BETA THETA PI. afterwards of Logic and Metaphysics in Union Col- T HE_ forty-fourth annual convention of this society_ I lege. Subsequently he was called to the Professorship h ]d t S t S · N y A 8 \ of Astronomy in Princeton College. After the death was e. a ara oga pnngs, . ., ug. 2 . , 1 29, 30 and 31st. The convention was opened witlt a \ of Prof. Dod he took, in addition, the chair of Mathe- salutatory address by the Hon. J. R. Knox, the founder I matics, and after the acceptance by his brother-in~law, of the fraternity. In the evening a reception and hop I Prof. Joseph Henry, of the Secretaryship of the was tendered to the delegates in the Congress Han I Smithsonian Institution, af Washington, D. C., he for ball room. Among the business before the convention r some years occupied the chair of Natural Philosophy. were applications for charters from two New England : Amid all these char~:ges, however, astronomy continued colleges and from one in New York, Ohio, Tennessee, I to be the subject chiefly absorbing his attention. /His Georgia, Alab~ma and Colorado. Only one cha:'ter j observatory was a building located in the rem: ~'t his was granted, v1z., to the \Torch and Crown\ society 1 house, constructed of rough boards, and hav1ng a of A1nherst College. Letters of regret were received \ breadth, he~ght and leng.th of. about five, six and seven from ex-Vice-President Colfax~ Gen. Durbin Ward, \ feet res~ectwely. In th1~ edifice was placed a barrel Judges Carpenter, Wells and Peck, Presidents Reed : filled w1th ashes and serving as a column for the sup- of the University of California, and Mcllwaine of \ port of a portable transit instrument, which, with a Hampden-Sidney College, Ron. B. Gratz Brown, Hon. j ship chrono~eter,. a small telescope and a sextant, Daniel Voorhees, Hon Wn1. Springer, Governors completed his equipment for astronomical observation. Porter, of Indiana, and Crittenden, of Missouri, a.nd : With these meagre appliances, however, not only did many others. ; his tireless energy enab]e him to maintain a place in On Wednesday evening, the public literary exercises the front rank of American astronomers, but his inves- took place. They were opened by the singing of the 1 tigations, especially in physical astronomy, often at- Latin ode \ Ge1n11Za nostra.\ Rev C. N. Simms, . tracte.? the attention of the astrono1ners of Europe{ D.D. LL. D., President of the Syracuse University, : The little observatory of earlier days at Princeton is delivered the oration, entitled \The March of Man- 1 now replaced by the new Halsted Observatory, which hood to the Inheritance of its Rights.'' J. Lind- 1 was bui~lt under Prof. Alexander's supervision. ·(Prof. sey Gordon of the University of Virginia was the poet .. ' Alexander was no '' undevout\ astronomer, but a' man Thursday evening the annual banquet was held, and of most fervent and unobtrusive piety. Profoundly on the following day the delegates their ladies and accon1plished in general, as well as in scientific scho- friends visited Lake George. • ' ! larship, and possessing a most genial dispositi~n, he The delegates from New Chapter Union College could not, and did not, fail to secure the admiration were J. R. Van Ness, F. D. Hall and A. B. Bishop. and the love of all who were favored with his acquaint- The next convention will be held at Cleveland with ance.; the Beta chapter, Western Reserve University, Aug., 05 r. Rev. I. Frey, pastor of a Lutheran church at I 884. Reading, Pa., visited the college a few days ago. ' - . - '·( Ne' His Gra He '( '( '( Alb call '~ I., ~ '~ Sch will in t: '~ nes~ '~ Ogc '~ He yea1 '~ Sch '~ the .!1 N., '~ '~ roa< '~ was

' - THE CONCORDIENSIS. II · - '63. Rev. Dr. Henry C. Potter, of Grace church, New York, was recently elected an assistant Bishop. His election will involve his resignation as rector of Grace church and his future elevation to the Bishop- ric. He received from Union the degree of M. A. in '63, and D.D. in '65. '63. Thomas H. Fearey has sailed for Europe. He intends to be absent about two years. '64. C. F. Lewis is connected with the Treasury Dept. at Washington, having charge of the stamp vault of the Internal Revenue bureau. '64. B.S. Lewis is practicing law in Naseca, Minn. '6 7. Rev. R. Ennis has resigned his pastorate in Albany and accepted one in Dakota. '77· Rev. A. V. V. Raymond recently declined a. call from the First Reformed church of Aibany. '8o. F. Rogers is practicing law at Westerley, R. I., and D. Muhlfelder at Albany. '81. H. Neagle graduated an L.L.'B. at the Law School of the Columbian University last spring, and will take the post graduate this fall. He is at present in the Treasury Departlnent, Washington. '82. F. D. Van .Wagenen is in the real estate busi- ness at Fulton, N. Y. '8 2. L. A. Coffeen fills the chair of Science at the Ogdensburgh Academy. '82. C. Ten1ple paid a recent visit to the college. He will graduate from the Theological Seminary next year. '82. J. R. Fairgrieve is principal of an academy at Schaghticoke, N.Y. '83. Geo. Sherwood is at Portland, Oregon, on theN. P. R. R. J-83. E. H. Adriance has a school at E. Springfield. N.Y. '83. j. R. Harding is teaching at Kingston, N. C .. '83. McCauley is engineering on the Reading, Pa., road. ' '83. De Puy is home at Bath, and at last accounts was not in good health. '83. Gilbert is in business in Lockport, N. Y. '8 3· Wood is reading law at Washington, D. C. '83. McElwain is at home in Cohoes, N.Y. '83_.._ McClellan is in the brass works in Schenec- tady~- '83. Lansing is on the Hyde Park, Ill., Herald. '83. Addison has joined the class of '84 at Har- vard. '84. Parmenter·has left college. '84. Rooker sailed for Rome In September to study for the priesthood. '85. Addison is at St. John's, Annapolis. '85. Wands has left college and is farming in Al- bany county. '8 5. Brann is at Princeton. '85. Franklin has rejoined his class. '8 5. · 'Guion has left college. '8 5. McCauley has left college. '8 5. Moulton intends to come back next year. '8 5. Perkins has returned to college. , '8 5. Smith has left college and will probably enter Cornell. '8 5. Wheeler is at Williams. '86. Gallien has left coll~ge. '86. Judson is the first man of '86 to enter the matrimonial state. '86. Perkins has left college. '86. Shaible has rejoined his class. '86. Shick has entered the class of '86 at La Fay- e~te College. '86. W ernple is teaching school at Scotia. Prof. Swithim C. Shortlidge, one of the successful instructors of the country, has a flourishing. academy at Media, Pa. ) TENNIS. J F ever a racket you're needing, Or are longing to have a good time; Just leave off all thinking and reading, And purchase a bucket of lime. . Now n1ark off a court with precision, Buy net and a racket and balls; Then I leave you to make the decision, That you've sport for the springs and the falls. And then if you're wanting a player, In order to make up a set; Why tellnie, and then I'll be there To play on your side of the net. POLLY W., in Spectator.

·12 THE CONCORDIE.NSIS. ,. Alb.any La\v Scl1ool. \ weapon, with intent to kill one Ashton on tlte 2r8th of ! : September last. \ After the impaneling of an '' intelligent \ jury; the -- ·- - -- ... --- ---·. - THE CONCORDIENSIS. J . UDGING fro.n1 the unanitnity of sentiment expressed at the adoption of THE CONCORDIENSIS by the stu- dents of the Law school, it will be well supported by the1n, both as regards Hterary work and subscriptions .. The columns of the paper are open to contributions fro1n the pens -of any of the students, subject only to the discretion of the editors ; and it is hoped all will avail themselves of its privileges, and help to make it bright, newsy and interesting. The subscription price is reasonable for a paper of i this general class, and it is expected that every student will give it the benefit of his support in this direction. The larger the subscription, the better the paper. It is the intention of the editors to 1nake each num- ber of the paper better than the preceding one, until Union University shall boast that to her belongs the honor of publishing the best paper of this kind. Great effort will be 1nade to have literary work of the highest character in the columns of the paper, and to . n1ake it a grand success in every respect. S. AND S. case was opened by District Attorney MeN amara, in behalf of the people .. Messrs. Ashton, .Ray, Sloan and Stnith, witnesses for the prosecution, gave testin1ony of the san1e general inport, which tended to . establish the guilt of the pnsoner. Counselor Tripp opened the case for the defence, calling as witnesses Messrs. Foster, Garland,. Sullivan and Weeks, whose testilnony favored the pr·isoner as strongly as that of the prosecution tended. to p:vove his guilt, but the district attorney succeeded in impeaching the character of two of the witnesses for the defence. In closil:J:g, Counselor Tripp made an eloquent appeal to the jury, soaring from the pathetic to the sublitne, but that \intelligent'' jury was asleep. The district attorney succeeded in awakening the jury,- indeed, it was thought the effect would have been the sa1ne had the jury been dead. His appeal in behalf of justice was one of the achievements of a life- · time, and it was with difficulty that Judge Sirnonds suppressed the thunders of applause. The judge then charged the jury concerning their ORGANIZATION OF THE LAW CLUBS. duty and the law governing their action, after which Four of the law clubs have been organized with the they retired to the jury-rootn. After a short recess the following officers : jury was reported as having agreed. Foreman Steck, Smitlz Debating Club.-President, G. E. Garland; , standing in his place, reported, as the verdict of the vice-president, J. L. Weeks; secretary, J. W. Paddoc; \ jury, \not guilty,\ when every other man o1i the jury • I treasurer, E. A. Gifford. : hollored ''I dissent,\ and the judge sent the1n back to Kent Club.-President, A. W. Ray; vice-president, 1 the jury-room. W. H. Foster; secretary, D. J. O'Sullivan; treasurer, In a few minutes the jury again reported with aver- L. T. Mudge. . diet of\ guilty,\ when juryman Davidson \·dtssented Sickles Moot Court Club.-Prof. H: E. Sickles, I and they were again remanded to the jury-rootn, where chief justice; W. Scott, W. H. Tripp, G. E. Moore, they rode the dissenter on a rail until he was fully con- C. Rutheford, W. S. Hulslander, supren1:e court jus- vinced that the prisoner was guilty. tices; E. B. Simonds, county judge; L. T. Mudge, Counselor Tripp then ~'dissented,'' on the grounds county treasurer; C. H. Tipling, county clerk; W. F. that the jury was improperly ilnpaneled,- but half of MeN amara, district attorney ; S. M. Boyton, crier ; them were sworn, one was intoxicated, one was bribed ; E. T. Durand, N. S. En1body, justices; H. D. Bor- that they were not put in custody of the proper officer, den, sheriff; J. S. Sitterly, C. F. Aston, constables. I and that they were allowed to cotnmunicate with out- Eureka Moot Court Club.-President, F. W. Bal- \ siders. lard; vice-president, R. H. McMann; secretary, D. H. I Judge Si1nonds granted a stay of proceedings, pend- Sullivan; financial secretary, J. B. Moffett. ing an appeal. The court then adjourned until October -I 1th. SICKLES MOOT COUR'T CLUB. QN Th~rsday evening, October 4th, in the court of sess1bns, County Judge Simonds presiding, the case of the People v. Fbster was taken up. . Foster was indicted for an assault, with a deadly IN MOOT COURT. Several cases have been argued in Moot eourt, Jus- tice Smith presiding, but perhaps the most interesting one, so far, was that argued on October 5th. pl m cc H~ to rn oi 0 111 th cc Ul to tc ]a de h1 til hi 0] oJ . 111 c] K ( 0 h p c

' y . • ' THE CONCORDIENSIS. 13 The case was opened by Mr~ Ashton, of counsel for · her 19th, and the School of Ph.annacy, :October I st. plaintiff,. in a man11er highly creditable to that young . About a dozen of the students went to New York on man. Mr. Ashton was followed by Mr. Fisher, of.· :Saturday to spend the Sabbath. The three temper- counsel for defence, whose pointed s~rcasm and bril- ance rnen of the party S'Llccutnbed to the Croton water. Hant oratory took the house by storm. Mr. F. referred to Prof. Stnith as \the n1an on whon1 has fallen the · :tnantle of Chancellor K.ent, and the greatest expounder • The local drug trade is immense ; in other words, a .couple of our friends are \ straining every nerve '' to ·lnake the '' desert blossom as the rose; \ that is, they of the cornnon law since the days of Blackstone.''' ·.are trying to coax a little hair on the upper lip. During tl~e tremenduous applause which followed this k 1 · · b f h 1 11 d · Prof. S \Mr. P , can. you .tel:l ·111-e what t's n1aster-stro e~ t 1e JUStice, . y 1neans o t e gave , ca e the house to order, at the satne time 1naking so1ne · the earliest record we have of the rnaking of a will?'' con)n1ents upon the disorder, when Counselor F., not Mr. P \ Well-. a- I think it is way back in understanding the remarks, asserted that he was there · ~Genesis somewhere.\ Prof. S \Yes a text- to' defend the interests of his client, which he intended hook, by the way, which I would reconunend to your to do. And he did. careful perusal.'' Mr. Fisher was followed by his colleague, Mr. Gar- land, who, though not so forcible a speaker as his pre- decessor, gave a very lucid and concise exposition of his side of the case and the law governing it. The last speaker, Mr. Davidson, of counsel for plain- tiff, n1ade a very dear and able argutnent supporting , his side of the case, after which it was subn1itted to the opinionist and court, both of who1n decided in favor of plaintiff. 'The case was well argued and very inter- esting throughout. CLASS STATISTICS. There are 52 (fifty-two) n1en in the class. Average ag-e, twenty-three. The oldest 1nan is thirty-eight, and the youngest . nineteen. Sixteen colleges are represented in the class. The following societies have representatives in the class : Sig1na Phi, Delta Phi, Scull and Bones, Delta Kappa Epsilon, Pi Phi, Beta Theta Pi, Dela Upsilon. There are twenty college n1en in the class. There is a variety of nationalities among our num- ber, but it is thought the Irish element predominates. No dudes. BRIEFS. GREETING! How do you like our appearance ? There are six married 1nen in the class, three heads of families, one widower, and forty-six in the field. On Wednesday, October 3rd, Judge Learned began his course of lectures on the subject of Equity Juris- prudence. The Law School opened Septen1ber 4th; the Medi- cal College, Septen1ber r rth; Union College, Septetn- On Tuesday, October zd, a class n1eeting was held in the library, at which it was resolved to support THE ·CoNCORDIENSIS, and elect two editors, who should rep- resent the Law school upon the editorial corps. Upon ballot, Messrs. B. C. Sloan and F. E. Sn1ith were declared elected as such editors. Prof. Stnith closed a very interesting and instructive course of lectures on \ Personal Property,'' on the I 6th of Septen1ber. On the following morning he began on the subject of\ Contracts.\ The professor has already won a warm place in the hearts of the students, and we cannot wonder that the tnembers of each class are sorry when they have heard the professor's final lecture. A few evenings since a nun1ber of \the boys·\ were engaged in a general conversation, when one of the party retnarked that he could not undeistand why people should call lawyers a sickly set of men_; another of the party, who will und~ubtedly be successful in the profession, said he thought the saying true, because lawyers were either lieing on one side or the other, and were uneasy all the time. Prof. Sickles closed his course of lectures on \Sources of the Municipal Law,\ on September I sth. On the following evening a Moot Court club was organized and natned in honor of the professor, after which the .me1nbers of the club tendered him a serenade. Mr. McNamara, in behalf of the class, in a few well-chosen and apt remarks, infonned the professor of tl1e occasion of the serenade, and tendered hi1n the thanks of the class for his very valuable instruction and evident inter- est in the welfare of the class. Prof. Sickles responded, thanking the club for the honor conferred upon hhn, and again assured the1n of his interest in the111, and his desire to assist thetn in attaining a knowledge of the law.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 14 Albany Medical College. ~~- --~-·-------------- ------ -· -------- [A number of TrrE CONCORDIENSIS will be issued every month, containing matter from the .Albany Medical College, until after the Commencement. Price, So cts. to medical subscribers. All subscriptions must be paid to S. E. terially lifted, their hearts made gayer and their college life 1nore endurable by information gained by siinply asking Dr. Mosher a few questions. As a lecturer he was not rapid but concise ; by him every su bj:ect was 1nade clear that he touched upon and his slowness of TIrE editors of the medical departme~t of this delivery was really a Virtue as it gave time for taking paper have no excuses to offer the pubhc for ap- notes, and he did not hesitate, when proper occasion pearing On the scene of medico-literary action; they · presented, to crack a joke or tell a story. Besides oc- believe the interc:sts which they represent, together cupying the chairs· of Pathology, Practice, Clinical. with the fact that their fellow students have asked them Medicine and Hygiene in the Albany Medical College, Ar.mstrong, 47 Eagle Street, Albany.] to act in this capacity> to be sufficient reason for their and being President of the College of Pharn1acy, Dr. appearing. The object, as we understand it, that Mosher had held positions of trust and honor in _the those rnost interested in this new enterprise have in state : \ But what were these to us or him ? \ They were naught to us when contrasted with his over- fiowi~g kindness, his unostentatious and gentlemanly deportlnent. It was naught to hi1n ; he wore his hon- ors as gracefully and with as little pretension as a Inodest bride wears her marriage robes. view, is the rounding out and bringing nearer to com- pletion what long since had been begun, viz: the ama1- gan1ation of the several departments of the University into one well organized whole, the'reby promoting the interests of all concerned. Of course for encourage- ment and support we rnust look to the College faculty, the aluinni and the students ; we have every needed aid froin the faculty so far as it is at present concerned ancl it only remains for the alumni and students to BEFORE nine o'clock,. A. M., on Friday, September manifest a proper interest in a way which is apparent 14th, a goodly number of students were assem- to every orie. In return for this the editors will use bled in the amphitheatre somewhat anxiously awaiting theiT humb1e talents, sparing no time or trouble to the appearance in the arena of our new lecturer, Dr. ' bring about success. We have the promise from mem- Henry Hun. We had not long to remain in suspense bers of the various classes, of some original matter for for, promptly on the hour, the gentleman presented our next m 1 d succeeding issues. We believe we have himself, and with but few introductory remarks, at students in our College sufficiently talented to make once began the consideration of his most difficult sub- these articles both pleasing and instructive to tli!ose ject, that of\ Diseases of the Nervous System.\ In who would be interested in a paper of this kind. All order that we may better comprehend what is to fol- the space will be accorded us for which we may see fit low, the doctor has been giving us the anatomy of the to ask, at commencement time, and it will be our en- cerebro-spinal nervous system, and that with great deavor to publish all the ite.ms of interest which may care, illustrating his subject with numerous specimens, present themselves, including the essay and valedictory \ plates and drawings, most of which he himself has address. . \ collected at the. exp~nse of considerable time ~nd 1 money. As a didactic lecturer, we can say he gtves WE . fill d · h d fi . . ·l . 1 \ complete. satisfaction to the stt.ldents. His clinics at · are e w1t sa re ect1ons In conteinp at1ng , . h dd d f 1 d h f b 1 d St. Peters Hospital are conducted on a thoroughly t e su en an aw u eat o our once e ove \ . . . . . r D J . ·b S M h 0 1 .c: h. . practical and scientific bas1s. Dr. Hun IS a graduate pr()tessor, r. aco . os er. n y a 1ew s ott 1 h _ d . . . -. - h · 1 f h' · h f 11 . f h' 1 of t e Sheffiel Scientific School, the med 1 cal depart- mont s s1nce, we e t In1 In t e u enJoyment o IS . . 't 1 h h 1 h k f h ment of Harvard University, and has also spent several v1 a powers ; e gave us t. at 1earty s a e o t e . . . , . . h d d th t k . dl · . . ,, 11 . h years abroad. Dunng his stay In Europe he evidently · t M , h' h d f h looked Into educational Inatters, as Wtn. Wood & Co. an an · · a 1n y 1nv1tatlon to ca again w en . . conventen, r. w 1c every stu ent o t e . ~' . . . Alb M d . 1 C 11 . h have lately pubhshed A Gu1de to Amencan Medtcal any e Ica o ege was wont to expenence w en S d. · ·E b H H M D \ . . tu ents 111 urope y enry un . . he had called on his learned teacher and was about to 1 ' ' ta.ke his leave. But, more than this, he would often- \ times on his way from the lecture room, it would see1n : . I from sheer love for the boys, tarry and chat with thein. 1 His vast store-house of knowledge was always open on call and the burdens of many stude:p.ts have been 1na- CONSIDERABLE dissatisfaction is shown with the appoint1nent made by the President of the Senior Class, on account, as is supposed, of an understanding between some of the n1embers appointed on such -~- COl thE SOl C0 1 of t01 th~ ed . 1n· 1 cc:: tr o1 w ] 0 1 n 0 r a t r r c: t r

o. THE CONCORDIENSIS. committee, and at present it is thought by many that the power of appointments hereafter should be taken somewhat out of the President's hands on this ac- count. CoRRES. We think if such is the case, the matter will be one of interest to the class, and should be sifted to the bot- tom, and the class be made the appointing power of their executive comtnittee, and thereby not be implicat- ed in any dishonest scheme, when their money and interests are so much at stake.-. ED. T . HE editors of the Medical department of THE CoNCORDIENSIS will gladly receive any comn1uni- cations from members of the college, but will\ not hold themselves responsible for the same. The signature of all correspondents must accompany all papers, but will not necessarily be published. country. Dr. C., for a long time prior to the 1st of March, r883, held the position of assistant at Dr. Landolt's clinic in Paris, and it is for that fact that he 1 has been selected as translator of Dr. Landolt's great- ! est and 1nost recent work. This clinic is held at No. ' i r 2 Rue St. Andre des Arts; and students of opthal- \ mology will feel repaid for any time spent there, by \ witnessing the fine practical work done in that depart- ment. THURSDAY, the 4th, through the kindness of Dr. · Swinburne's staff, Prof. Bigelow exhibited to ' the students Mr. Louis Londenki, a native of Poland, :who, on the rsth of February, r877, in company with six other men, while passing through the 1nountains of Roumania, was attacked by a band of robbers, who overpowered them and cut their throats fro1n ear to · ear. Finding some signs of life in Mr. Londenki, they hung him to a tree. He remained in this condition FRIDAY, the 28th of September, Albany received a I for forty-eight hours, fortunately being able to breathe, distinguished visitor in the person of Dr. Landolt, 1 ~ as his trachea was cut, until cut down by mountaineers of Paris, who arrived in the morning from Niagara Falls. \ and finally resuscitated. He was sent to Vienna, and That san1e forenoon he performed the operation of it was found on examination that his trachea was muscular advancement, of which he is practically the I severed, his larynx destroyed, and his resophagus cut originator, in the office of Dr. C. M. Culver, in the I and highly inflamed, and it was ~ot until he had passed presence of Drs. Van Derveer, Ward, Snow, Bendell I two years under the care of a Dr. Shraeder that he and Munson. In the afternoon, he was introduced at \: was able to take nourishment by way of the tnouth. the college to the 1nedical students by Dr. Ward. At the end of another two years he was able to speak, That evening a complimentary supper was given him I the hole in the trachea being closed by finger. But at the Windsor by the gentlemen who were present.at 1 his larynx had contracted in the ·tneantime to the size the operation of the forenoon, and Professors Perkins, \ of a straw, and if the hole in the trachea should be Tucker, Townsend ~n~ _Hu~. Saturday morning, i clo~ed pe~manently he would not be a~le to brea~he . upon Dr. Van Derveer s1nvtt~tlo~, Dr. Landolt attended i So 1t was Increased laterally by the placing every night the surgical clinic at the hospital and addressed the 1 of dilators in it, and at present it is large as a ten year· students. Satur~ay evening he dined with Dr. Ward, · old boy's, and Mr. Londenki hopes that at the end Drs. Morrow, Perkins and Culver being guests, and of another year that it will be of the sa1ne size as the later in the evening left for Boston. Dr. Landolt is one the robbers cut. The students were shown the consulting oculist at the National~ des Je~nes Aveugles, \ vocal cords and the bifurcation of the trachea, and a at Paris, and was forn1erly adJunct director of the , collection was taken up and presented to Mr. Lon- laboratory of opthalmology, in the Sarboune; was for I denki, who will remain for the present at No. 78 a long ti1ne connected with the Ecole Pratique; is an Franklin street, this city. officer of the Legion of Honor ; has written opthalmo- logical monographs, which have been translated into LOCALS. the English, German, Italian and Dutch languages. DURING the past vacation, some very fine improve- In connection with Dr. Wecker, he is now engaged in ments have been made in and about the college, writing a co1nplete treatise on opthalmology. The the most noticeable of which are the repainting without, second volun1e of it is written entirely by Dr. Landolt, and demolition of the old dissecting roon1 as such and a part of it has just appeared in French. Dr. C. and the construction of a new one on the fourth floor, M. Culver is at present engaged in translating a modi- I thus transfering this work fro1n a place underneath the fi.cation of this second volume, which treats only of an1phitheatre to one \high and dry above everything.\ the refraction of the eye, for publication in this Approp~iate and convenient vivisecting rooms have

THE CONCORDIENSIS. been fitted up for the 0 professor of physiology. We , hope that this good work may go on, even to the reseating of the amphitheatre with good, con1fortable chairs. The laboratory classes in chernistry (Prof. Tucker), and histology (Prof. Hailes), are well attended. The · professor last nan1ed says he never had a larger and more enthusiastic lot of boys in his work-shop. 0 The great question is, \ Can't you look with both eyes open?\ 'The answer is, aogreat variety of squints in . the attempt to :fill the bill. At the '86 class 1neeting of the 4th, when some one moved that \we adjourn and rush the1n out,'' an '85 man imn1ediately made for the door, saying to a class- mate, \Can they do it? \ \Of course they can, if they wish,\ was the reply. As they didn't wish, the '8 5 n1an stayed, but thereafter kept quiet. The death of Prof. Mosher necessitated a change in the faculty. Professors Van Derveer and Ward are filling the chair of theory, practice and clinical medi- cal n1edicine so far as didactic lectures are concerned, and Prof. Eigelow attends to the medical clinic. Inquirer: Did the chairn1an of the executive con1- mittee enter into any agreement, or was he promised such chairn1anship by the president in return for a Dr. De Zouche was the guest of Prof. Hailes during the third week of September. He is located 'at Glov~ ersviUe. Vn'r. J. Leslie S1nith, '83, received the appointment of assistant house physician at the Albany hospital, but, after serving five months, his health failed hitn. Having regained his fanner vigor, he will continue his 1nedical studiec.; in foreign parts (Vienna). He sails about the 17th of the present 1nonth. Dr. C. E. Tefft, '64, recently paid his Ahna 1VIater a visit. He thinks his class should have a reunion during next co1nmence1nent. What kind of an 'ennial celebration will it be? We leave it to our coadjutors at Schenectady, who are undoubtedly learned in all the habior and Greek languages. CLASS NE~S. THE following are the officers of the senior class: President, Mr. John V. Hennessey; Vice-Presi- . dent, Mr. Pierson C. Curtis; Secretary, 1VIr. Edgar Zeh; Treasurer, Mr. Luman B. Rulison; Valedictorian, Mr. Robert Babcock; Essayist, Mt. William B. Melick; 1\!Iarshal, Mr. Clinton W. Kellogg; Orator, Mr. Walter F. Robinson; Historian, Mr. Michael D. Stevenson; Poet, Mr. Winfield S. Hubbard. forn1er favor? '84. Prof. Townsend's Saturday quiz is very popular . The juniors held their 1neeting for the election of among the boys. Why cannot we have more of the class officers, October 1st. The result was as follows: smne sort frmn some of the other professors ? 0 President, Mr. C. R. Knapp; Vice-pre~ident, ~r. E. · ·h · 1 .c f Ed . d F W 1 h , 8 A. Moody ; Secretary, Mr. E. Larkins, resigned ; We m1ss t e genm tace o war . as , 5, 1 T M E A M'll . H' · G . d d h . d' 1 C 11 reasurer, · r. . . I er, Istonan, Mr. . T. th 1 s term; un erstan . e IS atten 1ng t1e o ege of W ~r d. M h 1 . M M M H . d' . . d 8 N y· 1 . artor , . ars. a, r. . c arg. A JOUrnment Physicians an urgeons, at ew or\: city. .c 11 d d h h' f ffi ! • d h b d , . . lO owe , an t e c Ie o cers Invite t e oys own The. mernbers of 86 nurnber forty-eight ( 48)' to Keeler's, n1uch to the filling of stotnachs and de- forty-six of whom are from New York, two ( 2) fron1 pleting of pocket-books. Massachusetts. Previous to October zd, the class of '86 had held There are one hundred and twenty-seven (127) · 1 t t d t ··t th t . no class 1neetings; but on that date, in11nediately after matncu an s o a e a e presen session. . . . . . . . ,, . Prof. Bigelow's chn1c, 1t met In the amphitheatre, was Curator: What IS the pleura? Young Aspzrant: · ll d t d d M J H R '11 · t d h · . · · · ca e o or er, an r. . .. e1 y appo1n e c au~ \The lining meinbrane of the stomach.\ d M F 11 t p \\ Th b' t 1nan, an r. urne secre ary ro ,;em. e o Jec s Why did H-11 y show the white feather at of the meeting were \ organization and election of Prof. H-'s first quiz? officers.\ Appearances, however, were 1nuch against ALUMNI NOTES. such events happening. But in course of time, a com- lnittee of five was appointed, ~onsisting of Messrs. Drs. G. S. Olin, '76, and Carter, '79, were at the Blessing, Brown, Hogan, Clyne ,and Cutter, which college on the I Ith~ withdrew; and on its return, reported a \ Constitution Of the class of '83, Drs. Fisk, Schutter and Skilli- . aud By-Laws; \ and organization was effected by the corn have settled in Albany. \ class unanimously adopting the committee's report. Dr. Charles F. Wicker and wife, of Sarana«:: Lake, ! But another chaotic scene ensued, and the meeting this state, visited the college on the 9th of this month. \ adjourned sine die. - - c in t: pro: nat1 mel ore cau the we1 Co Se< Tr~ Hi off . 111 su by M m of at 01 ) . le S< f~

l r s s f ;t h n .e t. cg THE CONCORDIENSIS. October 4th, the class again met, with Mr. Brierly graduating exercises of the class of '8z were held on in the chair, and Mr. Furnell acting as secretary. The the evening of February 28th, r882, in the amphi- prospect was that this meeting would be of the same I theatre of the Albany Medical College. There were nature as the previous one. A number of '84 and '85 present Rev. Eliphalet N. Potter, president' of the men, on the upper floor of th~ amphitheatre, endeav- university; Prof. David Murry, LL.D. ; the members ored to the best of their abilities to promote the good of the board of trustees, Professors Mosher, Tucker cause of disorder. However, great actions, although and Michaelis; Rev. Irving Magee, D.D., and others. they move slowly, do move; and the following officers The exercises were opened with prayer by Rev. Dr. were elected: President, Mr. Alfred H. Browne, of Magee, after which President Potter delivered the Cohoes; Vice-President, Mr. S. Louis Lloyd, of Utica; charge to the graduating class and presented them Secretary, Mr. D. Livingston Kathan, of Ballston; with diplomas, and conferring the degree of Graduate Treasurer, Mr. H. M. Lincoln, of Greenfield Centre; of Pharmacy (Ph. G.) upon Albert R. Griffith, ,Oil Historian, Mr. William H. Lemrow, of Troy. As the City, Pa.; Gustav ICreutzer, New York city; John S. office of Grand Marshal was not on the list, which is Phillips, Fonda, N. Y. The address to the graduates in the Constitution; it was unan~mously voted that was then delivered by Dr. Murry, and at its conclusion such an office be created, and that Mr. Joseph Baynes, Dr. Potter awarded two prizes-one of twenty-five by filling the same, become the ornament of the class. dollars to Mr. Albert R. Griffith for the best thesis Mr. Baynes immediately consented to be said orna- presented, and another of a like su1n to Mr. Gustav ment. The representative of the class for the board Kreutzer for the best final examination. The exercises of editors of THE CoNCORDIENSIS was then elected, were brought to a close by the pronouncing of .the and the meeting adjourned to Keeler's, where his benediction by President Potter. The second year of oysters were satnpled to the satisfaction of all. After the college opened with a senior class of ten and a leaving l{eeler's, the class returned, singing college junior class of twenty. Nothing of importance trans- songs; and before dispersing, a number of the pro- pired during this term. The second annual com- fessors were serenaded. mencen1ent exercises were held in Alumni Hall, Pres. ·Albany College of Pharmacy. ·- ·-------------------- AT a 1neeting of the Board of Governors of Union University, held June 21st, r88I, a department of pharmacy in the university, to be known as the '' Albany College of Pharmacy,\ was created. It was incorporated conformably to the laws of the State of New York, August 27th, r88r. The gentle1nen,. to whom the honor n1ay be given of founiling the col- lege are the late Dr. Jacob S. Mosher, Willis G. Tucker, M. D., and Gustavus Michaelis, Ph. G. The original board of trustees were: Joseph W. Russell, president; Louis Sautter, vice-president; Luther H. Tucker, treasurer; Eliphalet N. Potter, Jacob S. Mosher, M. D., Charles Newman, Archibald McClure, Alfred B. Huested, Edward P. Waterbury, Addison A. Keyes and Willis G. Tucker, M. D. The original faculty was: Jacob S. Mosher, M. D., Prof. of Bot- any and Materia-Medica; Willis G. Tucker, M. D., Prof. of Chemistry; and Gustavus Michaelis, Prof. of Pharmacy. The first year opened with twenty-one students-three seniors and eighteen juniors. The . , Potter presiding. The address to the graduates was delivered. by Dr. Alfred B. Huested, president of the New York State Pharmaceutical Association, and a trustee of the college, and the prizes were conferred by Joseph W. Russell, Esq., president of the board. Louis Sautter, Jr., delivered the valedictory address. 1\'he following gentlemen were awarded the several prizes : Louis Sautter, Jr., for the best exan1ination in ·pharmacy ; Theodore J. Lewi, for the pest thesis pre- sented; and Frank Richardson, for the best junior ex- amination. After the exercises, the graduating class, members of the board of trustees and faculty adjourned to the Delavan House, where they enjoyed a sumptu- ous banquet. During the sutnmer the college lost one of its best professors, in the death of Dr. Mosher. At a meeting of the board of trustees, held Sept. I zth, '83, Dr. A. B. Huested was elected to fill the vacancy in the faculty caused by Dr. Mosher's death, and Dr. John M. Biglow his successor on the board of trustees. A board of examiners, consisting of Louis Sautter, A. McClure and Charles H. Gaus, have been appointed, whose duties it shall be to exatnine the seniors after having passed their exami11ations before the different professors. It will be seen the college has increased annually in membership, and now enters upon its third year with every prospect of success in the future .

18 THE CONCORDIENSIS. THE third annual course of lectures of the Albany · College of Phannacy opened on Monday evening, October 1st. The introductory address was delivered by Gustavus Michaelis, Ph. G., professor of pharmacy. It was both interesting and instructive. Short address- es were also made by Prof. Waterbury of the State · . Normal School, Dr .. A .. B. Husted .. and Rev. Dr. Dean of All Saints Cathedral. About forty students have registered, an increase of ten over last year. That excellent journal, the Argo, fron~ Williams~own, is on hand and maintains, in our opinion, its old repu.:. tation of being among the foremost of college journals .. Its neighbor, the Amherst Student,. is .also here, and ' . its editorials and locals are exceedingly well handled. But we notice one defect; it is this, the literary is very scarce. · We do not think a college journal should run all to literary, still that department shol;lld at least re- ceive as 1nuch attentio11 as any other. But we must go no further on this subject, for now the Lehigh PERSONALS. Burr raises itself out of the pile and asks our con- Benjamin, '8 3, spent a f~w days in town last week. gratulations upon its tasty dress, which we at once Boucher, '-8Jr has purchased the. ·store lately occu- gladly bestow. .The Burr possesses a foreign corres- pied by Paul Weidman, 2 7 7 ~lin tori. Avenue. pondent who has sent the1n for this issue an interest ... ing and well-written article on Brussels, with a little Roth, '83, has accepted a position as prescription continental news thrown in. It also contains a good clerk in Buffalo, N. Y. editorial, considering its limited space, on \The Col- The Senior class elections will take place on Friday •. lege Fetish.\ evening, October r 9th. Miss Alice M. Wood ward, '84, is attending the Phil- adelphia Medical College. Hattie, '84, is at his ho1ne in Wyoming, Pa. He will return to college at the opening of the fall term. Leonard Wheeler and Louis Sautter, Jr., of '83, have been appointed Quizmasters for the senior class. Wheeler will quiz in Pharmacy and Sautter in Materia Medica. · On the r4th day of ·August last the Albany College of Pharmacy lost one of its best friends in the death of Dr. Jacob S. Mosher, one of the founders of this College. Dr. Mosher was our professor in Materia Medica and a rne1nber of the board of trustees. Be- loved by all of us, we will long mourn his death as the loss of a good instructor and kind friend. ------- --- --~- ------~--- .. -- EXCHANGE. QNCE m?re the Exchange dep~rtlnent solicits your perusal. Most all of our fnends are back, and we buckle down to the labor of criticising them, with the hope that our efforts will be productive of some good. An1ong the first to arrive and repose upon our table was the journal bearing upon its cover the motto \ Westward the course of En1pire takes its way.\ It is, of Cf' irse, the Berkeleya11., from the land of sand- lotters.· We notice particularly that it contains very little ? ''VS concerning sister colleges. This, however, may ncsult from the isolation of its university from the1n. We now take up the University Magazine and see at a glance that at least three-(ourths of its pages are devoted to spo~ting matters. It endeavors to explain the defeat of the University crew at Lake George by proclai1ning the Cornell crew a lot of- \ blacksmiths,\ who were only good for rough water. But then that is only human nature. One confident little boy runs a race with another little boy and is 'badly beaten. What does he do ? He immediately discovers that his successful rival has wings or \ seven league boots.\ \ No wonder he won the race.'' \ All is vanity \-let us proceed. The Princetonian has found a curiosity in the shape of a Fresh1nan's journal dated 1793. We advise our Fresh to buy up so1ne copies and investigate this interesting document. The Syracusan is with us once again and bears within its pages an etching of a portion of the canal as it meanders through the green pastures of the Salt city. It is indeed a- m-agnificent work of art, and we ad vise our esteemed contemporary to send it down to the next art exhibition at New York. This paper is only interesting inasmuch as it is the organ of a co- educational establish1nent. It abounds in sly allusions to .flirtations-what Junior So-and-so said to Miss So-and-so, and not infrequently records marriages be'\ tween students. rfhere-we have done enough this time for the Exchange. \For further particulars consult our next issue.\ t v re 0 ..

