THE CQN,C.ORDIENSIS. 18,3 all new and . the printing is in blue .. Storrs, as chancellor for the year ink. The book contains one hundred has· suggested, among oth~r topics, and four pages of matter, with the the importance, influence and up- addition of thirty pages of advertise- building of libraries. ments. Upon the whole, '84's Gar- 1let deserves con1mendation, but with justice we c.ertainly cannot prais~ its contents as much as those of last year's issue. Mr. Burrows, the printer, has made a good job and the printing shows careful handiwork. 1 -,HE new building, now almost . finished, is entitled the Povv- er's Memorial Building. On the corner near the central porch is to be inscribed the name of Thomas H. Powers. The building is a memorial of both father and son of that name. The inscription on the corner stone is to distinguish the main building from the centre library hall whiclT, with the consent of the donor has been ·added .by parishioners and friends as a \nemorial of the late Rev. Dr. Washburn, of Calvary Church, New York. It is expected that his portrait, by his friend, the celebrated artist Huntington painted for the panel over the large fireplace in the ne\v library hall, will be un- veiled on commencement morning, before proceeding to the exercises. There will be a brief service at which Dr. Washburn's friend and eulogist, Dr. Storrs, of the Church of the Pil- grims, Brooklyn, will participate. Dr. T HE Se~iors a~e to have their ball this year !n the new mem- orial building. The ball proper will be in the new library hall, but the rooms of both wings will be open and used as dressing rooms, for the refreshments and for private dancing and chattittg. The class of '83 may congratulate themselves on having such a commodious and delightful place for their festivities. Each room is to be temporarily supplied with g~s, and the colonnade to be kept open for promenading. The ball committee is making every prepara- tion to further the success of the plans. The grounds between the centre building and the new build- ing are to be laid off nicely so that it will be no difficulty for ladies and gentlemen to pass in1mediately from the President's reception to the ball room. It is to be hoped that with these arrangements there will not be the usual crowding and inconveni- ence heretofore attendant upon com- mencement balls. T HIS ~onth cotnpletes the reg- ular numbers of the CoNCORDI- ENSIS. The Commencement issue is the only one after this. The latter • l .I I I . l I l i I I ! i ! ' , I j J j I ! I ) ' ' 1 I l i f l 1 t I l l l ~ l l I j

THE· CONCORDIENSIS. we wish to make this year as full as possible. It will contain the entire exercises of class day with short notes on the Adelphic and Philo- mathean exercises, the prize speak- ing, &c. The \ local\ column will have every thing of interest which may happen during con1mencement week and the latter part of the tern1. We wish, also, to give the completed 1ist of the class games. The paper will have from 35 to 40 pages of solid reading matter and all for 20 cents. The editors will make it a point to retnain here until the papers of all subscribers are mailed to them. Do not forget to fill out your year's vol- ume, but subscribe for the Com- mencement Number. I N our last issue we ha~ son1ethi~g to say about the election of edit- ors for next year. Whether that will have any influence we do not know. Ever since the paper has been in our hands we have tried to better its condition. We examine the pub- lications of sister colleges, smaller and of less note than Old Union and we are ashamed to admit that n1any of them display mucl1 more literary ability than. our own. The question is why cannot we issue a first class paper ? There are many difficulties to contend with but we are thorough- ly convinced after a year's work on the CONCORDIENSIS that a high stand- ·ard can be readily reached with proper energy on the part of, not on- ly the editors, but the entire body of students. Let no man stand off and complain of the paper, criticizing the negligence, &c., of editors, but let ,each man recognize that the paper should be an exponent of the college and not of the editorial board alone. l~e careful then in choosing your · next board, put in men whom you know are able to write and to wt>rk faithfully, and if such a board is thoroughly organiz~d before the end ot the year they ,can come back next fall and begin in earnest. An addi- tion qas .been made ~o the paper this year and the editor has had· no tro~ble in finding plenty of matter. If this is so then why not run a semi- monthly, a thing which we think can easily be done. The chief draw- • back would be the trouble in paying for such an issue, but that can certainly be accomplished. An- other objection made is that the stu- dents are not able to buy a semi- · monthly. We believe .that every student in college would be more willing to suport a paper thus giving news fresh and not' a month old as now. Come for·ward then every man and make your paper represent Old Union's literary ability, which she is· fully able to sustain in a more worthy manner. In several, colleges sup- porting the best papers, the editors

THE CONC,ORDIENSIS. are excused from regular literary work. This is a great advantage, especially to those who have the chief positions, since much extra time is required. We hope some such move will be made here another year for the benefit of the editors, who then will have an inducement to send out cr n1ore cre~itable paper. I T is to be regretted that after such. a brilliant record in the ~' dia- mond,\.Union has not beenable this year to make a full \Varsity nine.\ The cause, of course, is evident, namely, the lack of a good pitcher. We were peculiarly fortunate last year and in Mr. Anable's absence we cannot too fully appreciate the loss. Union's \Varsity\ has built up a high reputation during the last few years and now, just when she had risen to that height it seen1s a great pity not to be able to sustain it.. Al- ready have the ·managers received challenges from several leading col- leges and other nines, but have had to refuse. Although this fact is evi- dent still we need not regret it so much after alL It does not injure our reputation to withdraw a year from the arena. The series of class games now going on have developed great interest and with so much prac- tice by such a large number of men certainly a good pitcher will develop respects a strong~r nine for the field. Then the old reputation can be fully sustained witho·11t a stain on our escutcheon. l' he managers are striving to. hire a. pitcher, and if so, perhaps the Varsity will yet co1ne in the field. . ~ .... A S the portrait of Dr. Wash- burne is t() be unveiled in the new library hall immediately be- fore the Commen.cement Exercises, why should v.ot tbe Commenc;~ment be held in the Alumni Memorial Hall? It seems t() us that it would reqnire but little expenditure of time and trouble to tit the Alumni Men1o- rial H..all for this purpose. Amh.erst, Harvard, Oxforcl and Cambridge, all haye their <;ommemoration or Memorial Halls for Comtnencement Exercises and d() not have to beg or borrow a place. As Union has a hall of her own Ia.rge enough, if fit· ted up, why can it not be prepared for user It certainly \Vould be a great convenience for all to have the exercises on the :hill and, \ve think, pleasant for our friends from the city. We offer this as a suggestion, \vitb the remark that no time is as good as the present. M _UCH matte~ h~s ~een crowd- ed out of this Issue. The Athletic will appear in the Com .. men cement Number, with full scores of all games played during the sea- by next year, and we can have in all . son. i f ! I j .\ ; -

186 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ---~ ------------~----------- -- VIOLET. BY LUTHER JAMES EMERSON. Sweet violet, I owe a debt To thy frail set Of purple-mated hues; The wood land shade Where thou hast made Thy choice is oft to man unknown., And hid from twilight dews, Thou smil't in single love, alone. In this dim shade (1 Where sunbeams fade,- Like vestal maid In some old cloistered hall,- Thou hear'st the chimes Of mystic rhymes '1\hat murmur on each gentle breeze And smil'st and liv'st in all True bliss, beneath these tnighty trees. 0 sweet, shy face 1 0 lowly grace! Sight cannot trace In thee the prouder weed; Bid me but stay Beneath this spray Of spreading hazel, seldmn found, Where boastfultnan n1.ay read His life frotn humble life around. Truth hems thee round ; No secret ground Hath flower found So chaste, to deck her mould ; And if rude eyes Should thee surprise, How do'st thou, fairy, arch and shy, With modest mien unfold Life's tale, as soft as maiden's ~:;igh. Here, all unseen, Where grasses screen Thy blue and green Unblemished beauty o'er. Lo! I observe The sweet reserve, Nor crave the show of greater things,- Content to dream once more Her love in thy low order sings. In thy low sphere, My vulgar ear May never hear Thy grateful hymn to heav'n; Nor guess, nor tell, Thro' leafy dell What gentle mission thou dost bear; Yet blest, if God hath given, That voice so rough may call thee fair. \Vith breath of spring, When wood-doves sing, Thou com'st to bring Thy marvel of new life; Symbol that God, Above death's sod, Shall raise-from this corruption-mine, Fr01n flesh of sin and strife And death-shall raise me up divine. A NEW VERSION OF AN OLD STORY. They've told'the same old story, boys, A thousand titnes or more, And yet to us 'tis new as if 'Twere never told before. \The time is nigh for parting, boys, From Union's classic hall,\ How like a hollow, heartless form These words for many fall! Old, old indeed, the language, boys, But still, to me and you,·~ Each word of that short sentence gives A meaning strangely new. The village matron, may be, boys, Will toss her pretty head, t I ( . 1 r t ' ... r

THE CONCORDIENSIS. And take us off with words as tart As ever female said. ·'Just hearken to the students, girls! \ I hea~ the yearly rant \ Those Seniors raise, as only can \ Such as incline to cant. \They'll antic round Old Union, girls, \And 'Classic Hall' her o'er \Where Webster's Dictionary flows \In torrents, bridged no more. \They'll squander all their talents, girls, \ And, senseless, gambol still; \ Then pay with soft, but cashless, coo ''Their washerwoman's bill. \Don't let them ring your fingers, girls, \ With sly, seductive tongue; \ They'll never be contented till '' Your very hearts are wrung. '' I do not say 'tis wrong, dear girls, '' Though by it hearts are cleft; ' 1 But oh! however right you seem \ You'll find at last you're left.\ Thus, 'chance she'll prattle on, dear boys, Because the wise, the good, With extra sensibilities, Are oft misunderstood. ZOR, '83. A NUISANCE IN PET'TI- COATS. A certain distinguished foreign- er, when lately traveling .through our country, remarked \ how eas- ily the American people stand -nuisances !\ and it is a wonder that the old ~rumbletonian Herbert Spencer, when he showed us the many faults of our free government and their consequences, did not enumerate as a bad result of Democ- racy the sad truth contained in the above quotation. Nuisances are indeed very plenti- ful with us in America and the rea· son of our indifference or good nature or whatever our foreign friend would call it, in regard to them may very probably arise from the fact that they are so numerous that we are getting used to them. In order to illustrate the above quoted truthful observation and at the same time to bring before your notice a very common nuisance and one all the more aggravating because there is no way of getting rid of it, let me present to you a species of female, \vhich, for want of any other unblasphemous name, \rve will call The Strong Minded woman. She is a female of course but what a fe- male! A cross between Susan B. Anthony and Lydia E. Pinkham, with a flavor of the camp meeting sister, and occasionally you find one possessing a few instincts of the lady. She generally has education and is not without brains. She pretends she knows everything and has a most disagreeable way of parading her knowledge on all occasions. She gives you her opinions when you don't want them and was never known to mind her own business. She will talk you to death if you 0

r88 THE CONCORDIENSISr give her a chance and always has an original scherne concrrning some topic of the day. She belongs to all the female organizations in town and contributes to various religious. and temperance jonrnals. But here I am trying to define her or something very like it, when I know that the only definition of her is that she is undefinable. Now that we know so n1uch about hr.:r, let us visit the lion· ess in her den or rather at her home~ Strong minded wotnen they say are plentiful in New England, SQ let us seek out one of her many beautiful towns and stroll. into its shady streets. We shall not have to go far, I wager, before we see the object of our jour- ney on the lawn in front of her house~ She is acting this morning as a sort of overseer, for, scattered about are numerous workmen engaged in \fix- ing up the place.\ The lightning man is putting up an apparatus \Vhich is about as useful as it is ornamental; ·a painter is daubing up the front of the house with a coat of brown ; a grafter is trying to make connections so that a plum tree will, in the course of ten years, bear half a dozen pears; and a carpenter is building a new front fence. Our lady friend, whom we will call Mrs. Smith, so that we may be sure to know her, is giving directions right and left to them. She tells the grafter he is surely killing the tree and immediately shows hitn ho\v to proceed. She tells the carpenter he is a poor work- '~ man and is slow as time. The painter she tells, is not fit to white- wash a corn-crib, while the lightning-rod man is called a bungler and a rogue, which perhaps he is, but at all events be gets n1ad ~nd says, \ look here, if you know more about fixing this rod than I do, you can finish the job yourselr.\ \Vith that he leaves the roof but he gets a piece of her n1ind before he ·reaches the gate She now turns again her attention to the remaining men and makes them· so infuriated that when noon con1es the grafter has purpose I y killed the tree ; out of spite the carpenter has fixed the posts of the fence so that when spring comes the whole thing will be thrown out of shape and the painter has his revenge by waiting for a favorable opportunity till she is near the foot of his ladder and then spills half the contents of his pail all ...... over her new gingha.m. This last puts her in no very pleasant humor, so that when her husband comes h otne for dinner soon :tfter, she finds hitn a convenient object against which to hurl the irritating missiles of her ill-temper. Before dinner is more than half over, however, she has got tired of calling him a 1: lock head for employ- ing such a worthless lot of workmen and now she launches forth on her pet theme, \Woman's Rights.\ ..

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 189 ''Why is it,\ she says, \that the An1erican woman is thus downtrod- den and deprived ofher la\vful rights? Why is it that we cannot have a little liberty?\ Here her husband, at tbe other end of the table, thanks his for a iii vorce. At length dinner is over and he looses no time in getting out of the house, but just as he reaches the gate his wife sticks her head out of a third story window and tells him in firm accents that he just stars that won1an's liberty is not wants to come home at tea-time pre- greater than it already is. ·'Why is it,\· pared to stay home the whole even- she continues, -but here a hungry wasp strolls through the open win- duw and thinking that baby's pro- boscis is a tPm pting ro orsel lights thereon, and at once the youngest scion of that noble house sets up a yell which puts a stop to his mother's oration. In the n1ean time Smith, well-meaning n1an that he is, has en- deavored to kill the insect while in the very act of stinging, with the lettuce spoon, but fails and in failing knocks the baby with the force of the blow nearly out of his chair. :\Irs. Smith, not having seen the wasp and thinking that her husband has been admz'1lz'sterz'ng punishme11t ( 1nalz\ciously) to his youngest, dashes to the rescue with designs upon poor Smith's hair. As. she goes she steps upon the little dog·s tail and he, quick ·as a flash, bites one of the other children in the leg, who in turn sets up a howl, accompanied now by a full chorus of five small voices. Confusion runs riot and Smith in- wardly curses his luck for ever hav- ing married such a woman, and won- ders if he hasn't sufficient grounds ing, as she must attend the Temper- ance Meeting at half-past seven. Smith utters a groan and hurries away. Oh, if there is a n1~u1 on the face of the earth who deserves the sym- pathy of every man, woman and child, it is he who has had the mis- fortune to marry a strong-minded woman!! At three o'clock she goes out to see some of her neighbors and give them points on the Mormon Prob- lem. We will not follow her into every house she visits, just to note with what degree of joy each lady ha1ls the moment of her departure or to ascertain ho·w how great an annoy- ance she was in each case, but be content to abide by the general truth that a disagreeable subject, treated by a disagreeable woman in a dis- agreeable way is at least likely to be disagreeable. Half past four finds her on her way to her Shakespeare club. Here again she airs her opinions very freely and relishes the very idea

IVO. THE CONCORDIENSIS of a dispute. If one of the m em hers n1akes a statement, ten chances to one she is contradicted. If another quotes from the \dear son of mem- ory, great heir of fame,'' she is at once taken to task for not having quoted properly. Two-thirds of the members agree that she is a great nuisance while the rest are afraid to express their opinions. No action has ever been taken to put her out and so she has continued to make the meetings unpleasant to the majority ever since the organiza- tion started. When tea time ap- proaches she wends her way home- ward and finds her husband already there with a resigned look on his face. During tea she tells him again by way of a gentle reminder, that he mtlst stay home and put the children to bed. Smith wishes that there were no such things as children and thinks of the good times down at Brown's ~ouse that night, which he has got to miss, all on account of his confounded wife. Now let us proceed with Mrs. Smith to the Temperance Union. Here her usefulness is manifest, for her energy and gift of gab are al- ways in great demand and besides she has wi~h her many of the same species as herself. There are some members, of course, of that Union who can't abide her and who some~ times ·make it very warm for her, still she always manages to come out at the top of the heap .. This is the place for her, where she really does good and where her disagreeable traits are not so annoy- ing to her friends. If every w0man of her nature could be put in some such place permanently, only giving her time to run out to get her meals, I say if such a thing were possible, the strong-minded woman would in- deed be a blessing to us, whereas, situated as she is to-day, possessing too much liberty, she is very far from being one. We will not follow our friend through the long meeting, nor pay partie ular attention to the brilliant speech she delivered on moving that a committee should be appointed to investigate the alleged awful intem- perance of the State Assembly. We will simply see her safely home and then leave this particular specimen to consider somewhat briefly the strong-minded woman in general. Besides the facility of being too will- ing to impart information and of opening her mouth too continuously and disagreeably on all occasions, as somewhat dimly illustrated in our Mrs. Smith, the strong-minded wo- man generally possesses a character- istic con1mon to Americans, but de- veloped in a remarkable degree, which we call '' cheek.\

- THE CONCORDIENSIS. She does not evidently agree with Shakespeare, that \ borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry,\ or if she does she never acts in accordance with her own convictions. Imagine then the state of mind that her im- mediate neighbors are always in, for she will borrow anything from your piano or camel-hair shawl to a loaf bread. I know a lady living to-day in the town of C , a very n1oderate type of this species of woman, and a \VO- man of good breeding and education, who was about to give a dinner party and knowing that a lady friend of her's possessed a gardener who made a good salad, she sent for him at two o'clock in the afternoon without even asking permission of his mistress and kept him \vorking tho remainder of the day in her own kitchen. And what did the friend do or say con- cerning this piece of \cheek\ you may ask? Nothing, absolutely noth- • ing, but coming from the source it did she took it in as a matter of course, whereas, had any of her other friends done such a thing there would have been a row in the camp in a twinkling of an eye. Why, one of these females would think no more of borrowing your false teeth or tooth-brush, as far as the cheek required for such an act is concerned than they would 1 spoon- ful of baking powder. Why people will put up with more from them than from others is a question, indeed, for the philoso- phers. The men universally detest and shun this nuisance in petticoats. It often happen that in some of these women we find the favorite pastime of hailing passers-by and parleying with them as long as they will wait to hear her. In order to avoid be- ing cross-examined in the open air they are often ~een to cross the street just before reaching the house and to pass it on the other side. But even this little stratagem she often overcon1es and finds little dif- ficulty in making herself heard the extra distance. Now what do this woman's female friends think of her ? They are not by any nteans as unanin1ous in their · feelings as the men are. The following division will be found to hold good in most ~ases. We will divide them into thirds, and nearly one third will be found to be perfectly independent won1en, not to be domineered by her in the least and always ready to fight out with her when the occasion demands it ; another third are toadies, they agree with her in everything, laugh when she laughs, echo her sayings, quote her as authorityand in short hold her up as a model. They name their children after her and resort to many other devises whereby they may reach the highest place in her esteem.

j' i , I i I ! . ; ~ tl '. I I I' ' '' :' ~ I '' I' ' I! ! ' ,, ,. ii ' !' I' ' I' II ,, .: i • i ll ,, II ; :! THE CONCORD lENSIS The other third are on the fencr-. They are just as bad as the toadies, when i ·1 her presence, but when not they are ~ready to agree with the first or second third, whichever they happen to be among. They are ready, as the spirit moves them, at any moment to sing her praise or to proclaim her many faults. Thus we see the feeling of both sexes toward this woman, friends she has, to be sure, but they are \ n1ostly so i_n nam,e only, and unless we can call her a friend, she may have to go very far out of her own family circle to find one who esteems her for her own sake. And why, we n1ay ask, does this woman so rarely fall from her posi- tion? What is it that carries her through repeated rumblings, that make her oblivious to the coldness of some or deaf to the unpleasant re.: marks of others. She never feels hurt, such trifles strike her but she sheds them as readily as a duck does water. What is it that brings her forth fresh as a daisy from the united attacks of her enemies, and more fully impressed \vith the greatness of her own importance than ever ? [t is something we all possess in a greater or less degree, but like a piece of Limburger cheese a little of it goes a great way. Conceit is what keeps her above the :surface. '' Money makes the mare go,\ but conceit in this case does the business. You can't make a conceited per- . son see his own faults nor does he care n1u ch what others think of hin1, and so it is with this won1an, conceit forms a protecting sheathe about her and renders opaque ali mirrors which would enable her to see herself as others see her. Try to squelch· this woman if you can, or in the language of the world try to \ sit on her,'' you will fail nine times out of ten. Have you ever, while in bathing, endeavored to sit upon an apple or similar object rid- ing on the ·water's surface, if you have, can you not ,..ren1ember that just as you were bearing it in triumph to the bottom, it suddenly slipped and rose to the surface where it swam again as buoyantly as ever ? Well this serves to somewhat mea gerly illustrate the result of any at- attempt to. sit on a strong-minded woman . We have no means at present for protection against this nuisance, but that does not prevent us frorn trying to acquire then1. Let all the people who are at present afflicted, unite their efforts and get a law established to the effect that the strong-minded woman is as disagreeable as any oth- er nuisance and should, therefore, be dealt with according! y. Then let

THE CONCORDIENSISa li93 the law. be carried out in every case and there is no dou~t but what they ·will be relieved from further annoy- ance. This may seem to some a little hard on these highly developed spe- cies of the gentle sex, but before passing judgn1en t they should bear in mind the old truism, that '' des- perate cases require desperate re- medies,\ and also some of my read- ers may think that I am going far out of my way to malign this woman. N ovv in order to vindicate the few ideas I have set forth in the course of these remarks and to prove to their own satisfaction that they are greatly mistaken, may I ask thern to go and live next door to a strong- minded woman or as many of them as can marry one and if at the end of, say two years, they don't agree with 111e in everything I have said of her in this article, I will at once give up all my claims to the crovvn of Russia and be forever content to re- main, \ yours for health,\ ]EsSE JAMES HowLs, JR., Late S~cretary to the beautiful and cesthetic Lydia E. Puzkham. WHEN THE FRESH MARCH OUT TO DRILL. Lines .fou?zd in the PorifoHo of a College Wido-w. Now the robins from the southland In the swaying branches sing; And the dreamy, smoky mountain-tops Bespeak the reign of spring; And the timid fl.owers are peeping In the valley, on the hill ; And the campus is enlivened By the Freshmen in the drill. • There's a great big Fresh, like Jmnbo, Then gradu:tlly they ·corne To a Fresh as small as piggy Who went crying \ wee, wee\ hom~: But the sarne undaunted spirit Every manly breast doth .fill When the Freshmen seize their musket-> And go bravely forth to drill. Oh, their plump, unrazored faces: Are so boyish and so f:ai r. And their e,·ery 1nanrevre Is so subtle and bi.za rr-e That although they are not cruel Yet, alas, how dead they kill When they don that stunning uniform And amble out to drill. What a look of proud defiance. What a firm and rhartial gait, And the line of gleaming 111 usket:;. Is so regular and straight; It retninds me of a rail-fence On a h ucklebeiTJ' hill, When the sun smiles on the campus. And the Fresh rnarch out to drill. That hands01ne one's an officer, I saw him smile and nod., As past where I was standing He went rt1arching with his squad: How it made mv heart to flutter And my breast with pride to thrill That an officer should notice 1ne While marching in the drill. But his squad, so fierce and warlike. Almost makes me quake \Vith fear; Two ranks with foul~ men in a rank And one man in the rear- Now a sudden thought has struck me, 'Twould be mean, perhaps, but still

i I\ I. t: ,;. II. ., ':· ,, . :II ; . ,• .. . ,. d ' \' ,, .;, .;., .. . ; i,: ,. 'tl !' 1': !t li: ' :,\ I. 1': ,I, ,,ti :i i\ tl t' ill ~ ! I .. hi \ 'i :r •it .. :!I \ • THE CONCORDIENSIS .. -~--- --~~---- -----------· IVe a mind to nab that odd one-. 'they don't need him in the dTilL March along, 0 guileless Frcshm.cn,. While you play your warlike p~trts LittLe reck you how your pathw-ay Is bestrewed with. broken hearts, \Vhile you're i.nnocen.t he happy And of pleasure drink your fill; 'There's harder work before you 'Than you're having in the drill .. For n1.ethinks, an.d as I think it I can scarce r·estrain a. sob, Soon you'll a.ll be grizzly Seniors And be looking for a jO>h;. And along the way th.ere'll tneet you L~ss of good I fear than ill, And you'll find life far tnore irksome Than this tramping in the drill. ONE SUMMER .. One afternoon, as I was seated in rny co·zy little study with Metaphy- sics. in hand, my thoughts reverted to the sumn1er of 18- which 1 spent at a quiet little hotel situated in the Blue Ridge mountains~ Returning home after a year of hard work at college, I deemed it necessary to make a little trip to the .m.ountains to recuperate and to en- joy the fresh bracing air of these regions, and in looking around I no- \ ticed the name of a little place called Saluda. Being struck with its pretty nan1e I decided to go there at once, pletely covered with dust and cinders Stepping out upon the platform of the depot, I was very much im- pressed by the grandeur of the ·moun· .. tains and the beauty of the scenery. It seemed like son1e charmed retreat surrounded on all sides with moun ... tains clothed in the verdure of early summer. Glancing around I saw in the distance some half dozen cot- tages perched ~pon the mountain sides and only a few steps up the -im- mediate mountain I saw the hotel situated among the green trees. Following the vvinding· path I soon reached the steps of the hotel and perceived that I had, indeed, chosen a lovely spot to spend the summer. Hearing 1nusic whilst I was sitting on the piazza one evening, I threw away my cigar and upon entering tne parlor I found quite a bevy of ladies and gentlemen listening to a young lady singing. Qllestioning mine host heinforme~ me that she was a young lady who had but lately returned from Ger- many where she had been studying musi.c. Of course I desired introduc- tion and was soon presented to her. I was immediately struck by the sweet, womanly face that I saw be- fore me. She was not exactly pretty but fu11 of that unknown attraction so, packing up a few articles I set which we see in some faces and which ;i! ~• :• ,. off one morning and arrived at my unconciously draws us nearer to the ' ~ I destination in the afternoon com- possessor. . .

. ' THE CONCORDIENSIS. 195 ----------~--- - --- -- .. -- -- ----------- Light brown eyes which seemed to show the depths of her soul, glanced at you fro'm · under slightly arched eyebrows ; a mouth perfect in its symmetry and a straight nose, indicating character, completes the description of her face. Her wavy, brown hair was made up in a simple knot which shewed off a small yet perfect head, and a simple muslin dress set off to ad vantage the out- line~ of her pliable and graceful fig- ures. After a few com,monplace words in the parlor I drew her arm in mine . and we went out to join the promen- aders on the porch. Oh how distinctly I can remember those first few hours of our acquaint- ance! I can even now see her sweet smile and again her head bent down- ward as I uttered words that came swelling up from my heart. What I might have said I do not know, for suddenl) I noticed that nearly every- one had retired, and as she perceived it almost at the same time we bent our steps into the hall. Following her there I merely had time to press her little hand and then she glided up the stairway, but paused on the land- ing and gave me an arch look and laughing smile. Not feeling sleepy there was noth- ing for me to do but go out, smoke met. Seating myself where I could see the silvery n1oonbeams chasing the shadows from the eves of the porch. I gave myself up to meditati()n and in all my thoughts her face was present. Do \vhat I would I could not drive Jrom .my memory that arch look, for whenever I began to think of anything else rny mind would soon revert to the tantalizing smile on the stairway. Musing thus I was aroused from rn y reveries by the landlord closing and bolting the doors, so I was obliged to seek re- pose for the night in my chamber. The next d\orning whilst sitting on the porch I saw several young la- dies going out for a stroll and to gather sotne or the lovely mountain .. .laurels, and seeing my acquaintance of the night before with them, I asked permission to accompany her. This she granted with a smile and accepting the assistance of my arm we climbed several of the hills and succeeded in gathering quite a pret- ty bunch. Seating herself upon a large rock by one of the little moun- tain rills whic'h came tripping and splashing down the mountain side, she began to arrange the beautiful flowers. Seated at her feet I watched her busy fingers as they deftly grouped flowers and ferns together in pleas- a cigar and think of this new ac- ing contrast, and occupied thus she quaintance of mine \vhom I had just glanced up from under her long

II I' . I ; . I: :. I' '' ! . I! I I' I . ' THE CONCORDIENSIS. --------~--------~----~ -----------------·-··- ------- lashes and caught my look of un- feigned admiration. Blushing slight- ly she continued her work in silence until it was finished and then she arose and we returned slowlv to the \' hoteL As she was going up to her room J asked for one of the sweet flowers which nestled on her bosom; de- taching a small spray she gave it to n1e with a serious look hut as I bent over the little gift and pressed it to my lips, she bounde.d up the stairway with the san~ e look vvhich she had given me the night before. What \Vas the me'aning of that look?· What hidden meaning lay be- hind that arch sn1ile? Why did it haunt me so, were questions which I again and again asked myself with- out reaching ciny satisfactory con- clusion. Ah, who can foretell the impulses of the heart t I could not but see that I had fallen in love with her and the more I pondered over the pecu- liar smile the n1ore hopeless I saw my case would be\ That wicked glance surely did not speak well for my cause, for it was full of n1ischief and roguishness. I could not bring myself to believe that she was a flirt, and then again I laid aside as foolish the promptings of my vanity ; so, the only course which I had to pursue was to await patiently the de velopn1ent of future events. In the course of the next few days I became much better acquainted \Vitn her and my first affection in-· creased and deepened into a strong passion and I ~as happy only when with her. In all the walks and strolls which we took together I felt so happy that I feared that I might breakthe mys- tic spell which enthralled my heart by avowing my love, for every time that I resolved to tell her of my love the tantalizing smile on the staircase presented itself and prevented me from accomplishing my desire. However, one evening as we were sitting under the trees in the twilight I decided to put an end to the sus- pense by acknowledg-ing my love and receiving her answer. I had imprisoned her sweet ditn pled hand and was just about to tell her how much I loved her, when she glanced up from under her long silk- en lashes and I saw the same arch look and w:icked smile. It could not restrain my feelings now and in spite of a feeling of uneasiness my arm ... stole around her slender waist and my lips were about to press hers when--- Ah what is the matter? Why my metaphysics has dropped on the floor-it is four o'clock-why I do declare, I must have slept for nearly an hour and a half. NEMO.

THE CON·CORDIENSIS. 197 -----------·----------------- ·- ·-- - TO THE DANDELION. Humble floweret oft disdained, With .admiration quite unfeigned I sing thee. Blest to the gentle showers Of April, and the sunny hours That bring thee. Child first-born of mother spring, Earliest, too, in perishing, Indeed, I love thee; And, in my metnory and r,ny heart. Nor rose nor lily holds a part Above thee. To children, on the first tnild day Of spring, when on thy sunward way Thou'rt pressing, Or, farther 'round the season's curve, As horologe thy white locks serve, Thou art a blessing, Little suns, the lawn adorning, Making many a radiant morning Peep above the grasses, Soon your orbs will cease to burn, From gold to grey your locks vvill turn As life-time passes. And thus (it is a hackneyed theme) Is human life a spring-day dream, A golden blossom; But May must go and winter come To call us to our common home, Earth's mother bosom. BISHOP, '8S· -----------------·---- FRESHIE'S DILEMMA. 'Twas on a balmy sumtner eve, When Freshie with his cane, Meandered forth with lightsome heart To see his Mary Jane. His brand new suit of latest cut, When once he got inside, Fit \like der baber onder vall,\ Tight as his natural hide. To his inamo.rata then Full quickly did he hie, To catch the accent of her tongue, The glances of her eye. She led hhn in the parlor; From her lips he nectar sipped; When-· sitting down, a sound he heard, Ah woe! those pants had ripped. Poor Freshie's plight quite awful was, His blood nigh ·ceased to flow, He longed intensely to get out, A las ! he dared not go. The hours too slowly dragged along, His tongue clave to his jaw; • Such 'havior on her Freshie's part E'er yet she nev·er saw. The \ wee sma'\ hours drew on apace, And Mary 'gan to cough, When suddenly the lights went out, The gas had been turned off. To get a lamp then, quick did his Inamorata flit, \Now is rny time,\ quote \Frosh\ o'er- And swiftly out he lit. A lesson from this little tale Let every Freshrnan take; [joyed, Have your garment sewed, whate'er the [style, With thread that will not break. M. E. vG. FRANK PARSONS, A member of the class of '84, Union College, died April 23d, in the twentieth year of his age. ft a meeting of the class, held in •

198 THE CONCORDIJ:i~NSIS consequence, the following expres- sion of their feeling was adopted : Spared till near the close of his preparation for the active duties of life, everything seemed to promise a bright future .. to ~our classmate, ·whose sad death we now so deeply lament. He was loved for a manly ch arac- ter and genial disposition. His ear- ly death has deprived us of an earn- est and active member in whom we perceived abilities and attainments, which insured his success in after life. ·May the recollection of his ':irtues soothe the heart of his afflicted rela- tives and cause them to dwell less painfully upon his untimely death. GEO. F. ALLISON, J. G. GREENE, F. DIXON HALL, • I . F. z. pARKER, lt. ·' ;.. .-:·· .:..t CHAS. B. TEMPLETON, Comm£ttee. TRIBUTE O:F RESPECT. At a special meeting of the r\lpha Chapter of the Delta Phi society, held April 27, 1883, the following Preamble and Resolutions were adopted: WHEREAS, God in his wisdom has seen fit to remove from our midst our beloved brother George Frank Parsons, be it Resolved, That in his death the D:elta Phi loses a brother who, by his gentlemanly bearing, genial man- ners and loving disposition endeared b.imself to all who knew him. Resolved, That recognizing in his death the hand of Him whose chas- tisements are oftentimes His greatest mercies, we would invoke His bless- ing upon the family He has so. deeply bereaved and extend to them our sympathies in their affliction. Resolved, That we ·wear the usual badge of tnourning for thirty days. Resolved, That these resolutions be published in the CoNcORDIENSIS and the Gloversville papers, and that a copy of the same be sent to the family of the deceased and to each of the associate Chapters. A. w. RAY, c. c. HALE, C. H. HILL, S. A. SMITH, F. w. RAY, Committee. ) -Why is a hen? -Don't lend money this term. -Where is Major McMurray? -The gentleman who recently graduated from the nursery into the laboratory should take pains not to give the fact away.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 199 .,. -Who is the ''California Mick ? ~' -Who is the best. pitcher in col- lege? -Junior J. asked, the other day, \ Say, if you draw a straight line it won't look like a curve, will it!\ -A Senior lately asked what was the use of a settee-board in a boat. -The closing exercise'; of the Adelphic Society will be held on Thursday evening, June 7th. The Valedictorian is A. B. Nash ; Res- pondent, J. F. J!elaney. -If plumbago is used for drawing Mr. B., what king of drawing is it? drawing cars, drawing bags in a lot- tery or what ? -A Soph ·went into the laboratory a few days ago and asked if he could obtain any \hi-sulphate of carbon di-oxide.\ This is a progressive age. -WANTED.-- Two large specimens of the canine family, commonly known as bull, to stifle the bleating of two n1embers of' 85 on the campus during the class games. -CHALLENGE.-We, the under- signed, do hereby challenge any two men in college to sit with us at the poker table. Yours for traffic, FULL-HAND, }ACK-POT. -DIED.-Class of '85.-Upon the campus, on the 4th day of May, in the comfortable hope of a blissful immortality. Partners in distress, '83-'86. -WANTED lMMEDIATELY.-A horse on calculus, a faithful animal is de ... sired, which will at(ten)d to its work steadily in case of (six)ckness. -· A recent endeavor was made to pursuade lVIr. A. S. Anable, '8 5, to return for a few weeks, in order that we may play Harvard, Yale and other colleges. Our Senior director· re- ceived a reply stating his inability to grant the request. -We shall miss the wisdon1. and dignity(?) of '83: -Breathes there a Junior with head so small, Who never to himself doth call,- \ This is my own ''-my honored class And don't you forget that all others sh e'Il surpass. · -Engage your June number of the CoNCORDIENSIS which is to contain a full report of commencement exer- cises with sketches of all of the liter- ary productions. -A Junior told Prof. Coppee that Spencer was the author of Mother Goose, while another mentioned King Arthur and Knights of the Round Table as the in tim ate friends of Queen Elizabeth. -We, with great pleasure notice that the ash piles back of the college have be~n removed and the spot cleaned and covered with sand. We hope it will be kept ·clean during the entire summer. -The Sophs are thinking of ad- opting the white plugs and at a meet- ing held during the first of the ·term the following committee were ap- pointed to canvass the class : Mc- Sorley, Bradley and Duffie. The result has not yet been heard. We would say, buy them by all means. They will make a most excellent thing with which you can polish a stove, use for a cuspidor or a recep- tacle fo-r many min or objects.

200 THE CONCORDLENSIS -~--~---~---·-·-·-···- ----~- -The managers of the different boarding houses and the wash-wo- nlen are frequent! y seen on the hill. '' Oh, I'll send it to you as soon as I get home.\ -Prof. in Chemistry.-\ Novv, if you place your hand in steam at roo degrees and water at roo, which_ will burn you the most ? \ Soph P.--\ Steam.\ Prof.-\ Why ? ., Soph.-\ Because ifs hotter.n -It is said, on reliable authority, that if one sl;loJl go in the chapel one half hour before recitation he ·will find the back seats all taken for recit- ation next hour. Why is this ? Are the Juniors so eager to recite? --Ist Fresh (pointing to gas tank back of the Laboratory), \What is that building, there ? \ · 2d Fresh, \ I think . that must be . , \ an Ice nouse. -Judging from the appearance of the ·neck of a Freshman and also fro1n every account, quite a pugilistic encounter took place back of North College on one of the balmy days of Aprfl. The watchword was \are you ready?\ and being answered in the affirmative the struggle com- n1enced. In these columns we can- not give an account of the contest, but from results we would advise contestants always to see that their adversary has closely pared finger nail3. -The following officers were elected by the Adelphic Society at their first meeting this term : J. F. Delaney, President; ]. H. Veeder, Vice-President; F. Terrell, Secre- tary; J. W. Adams, Treasurer; F. Baily, Curator. Card Committee: J. W. Adams, J. Can tine, Jr., and J. R. Van Ness. -~-~--------· ~~- -South College has beoome quite an extensive navy yard,. many of the intnates being engaged in construct- . 1ng canoes. -The Sophomores and Juniors who \vish to compete for the prize stage have to speak in chapel on June 2d, when it will be decided vvho will form the stage. -We have in college many rnen who are athletically inclined and \Ve think we could be in the front ranks in sports, if opportunity was given. A field day once a year would be appreciated by all and add to the aftractions here. It is only necessary for a few men, who are interested, to take the lead in this matter. All the funds necessary to its advandement could be procured by subscription. We ought to ad- vance in this line and rank vvith other neigh boring institutions. -At a fair held in Union Hall, some time ago, it vvas requested that the students elect men from the dif- ferent classes to be voted upon as the most popular in college. A col- lege meeting was held and a com- mittee appointed of one man from each of the classes to name two men for the ba:llotting. Messrs. Perkins, '8 5 and '86 vvere the unfortunate nv\'n and accordingly their names were presented and voted upon, resulting in favor of Perkins, '86. -Dr. Cop pee, who occupies the chair of English Literature, vvas sud- denly called to other duties which will detain him until the first of June. At his request Prof. Ashmore '<indly consented to do his work. During the time of the Dr.'s stay here he delivered some very fine and in- structive lectures on his familiar sub- ject, which indicates his complete mastery of it.

THE CONCORDIENSIS~ 201 -\-Where are the white tileg ! Sophomore's -\G. stated in literature that P.ope -Who stole a pair of valuable cuff button from North College] A thief. -.How many class meetings have the Freshmen had! -A Freshman was lately heard to say he was going tD play solitaire !Jy hims~lfi -K. is too good looking to ask to be excused in a chemistry recitation~ -~'What is a gas, l\ir. C.?'' ''A gas is where the aton1s are so far apart they wont stay together. 1 ' -When B. was a little boy he learned his table of multiplication. Now he is a big boy he must learn his chemical formulation. -James R. Fairgrieve, '82, re- cently made us a call while on his wav to New York .. .I -:Pro£. Foster is now making his department very interesting 8.nd ip- structive by experiments.. He oc- casionally takes a little electrjcity ac·- cidentally and desires others to re- ceive the same benefit. -Subjects for essays this term : Junior, \The Prevention (Moral, Social and Political) of war.\ Sophomores, \The Benefits and Evils of a Political Career in this ( ' t . \ ,oun ry. Freshmen, \The Perfect Orator.\ -A Soph being asked who Jesse James H owles was, said he did not know but took his English which contains a list of pseudonyms and looked for it. He did not find it of course. We hope and trust that it will be there some time however. . wrote Homer's Iliad. -The Freshman class has ap- pointed a con1mittee to attend to the managem.ent of class pictures. -The general opinion is that the Yale cup lies het\veen '83 and '84s the other classes plainiy showing their weakness in the contest -The strength qf '83 is so1nething wonderful, considering her defeats heretofore. The Freshman nine is strong and only needs time .to bring . forth glorious results~ -Colonel Pickett makes his daily rounds, repairing broken windows and replacing stolen benches. . -Whoever owns the bedstead in the hall of North College, N ortb Section, \vill save it by re.moving it. -Why is a chairman always ad- dressed as ''the chair?\ Because there is a general desire to sit on him. -WANTED-Five essays to make up my rhetorical work. jiM SLOTHFULN~S. -Why is it that so many Fresh have made efforts this term to raise beard? 1'ruly many have· tried, but few have succeeded. -The canoe club has completed its organization by the election o1 the following officers : President, C. A. Kitts ; Secretary, Everett Fowl- er; Treasurer, W. Foote; CDmmo- dore, Bayard Whitehorn. The club now has about twelve members. It is said that a number of them con- template taking a trip down the Hudson to New York as soon as college closes.

202 THE ,CONCORDIENSIS~ ~-----------------~---------·--··------ -An unusually large nun1ber of beavers have made their appearance in the college this spring. -Several minstrel shows visited Schenectady last n1onth. The stu- dents patronized them in large num- bers, influenced ·by the attraction which never fails to dravv crowds to circusses and minstrelsF -\'A companye of ladies, tweye and tweve.\ \Well Dr. L., what does the~ poet m·ean by ' tweye and tvV· ye ' ? \ Dr. L. _H He means four d .c \ N . h . . an rour. \ o, su ~ t at IS not 1t, he means twenty-two.~\ -Lawn-tennis is becoming very popular as a source of aniusement, and vve are proud of our tennis court upon the can1pus. It ·will add to . the pleasure of college life. -.At the last class meeting of the Seniors, one of the class expressed his opinion that inasmuch as there was a good deal of business to be transacted they would probably have a very contracted meeting. -The final examinations which the Sophomore engineers have to pass this term and the dates of ex- aminations, are Algebra, May 5th ; Geometry, May 19th ; Trigonometry, June 2d, and Calculus at the end of the term. -Professor in Calculus, speak- ing about the largest piece ot land which could be :inclosed with a given amount of fence, said .that it would be a square. 1st Soph-\ Could you not in- close more in a polygon?'' Prof., \No . '' s1r. 2d Soph,-eager in the pursuit of mathematics, \ You could inclose more in a hexagon, could you not, than a polygon ? \ -·· A Freshman with an inflamed eye remarked that his tear aqueduct was injured. Many of the Seniors and Juniors have purchased beavers on account of their cheapness. -Owing to the exoessive extrane- ous matter \Vhich had blown into the keyhole of the Latin Recitation room., Prof, Ashmore heard the Sophs in the chapel, 1\pril 27th. -Prof. in English.-\ \Vhat did girls' education consist of in the time of Chaucer, Mr. C. ? ,., Mr. C.-(whose ideas on the sub- ject are somewhat limited) \ It con- sisted in handing out beer to cus- tomers~ sir.\ • ·I -Up, from the pasture rich with weed, Clear, in the soft, cool April eve, Two gaudy females came dressed in red · With giddy hat~ upon the head. Round about them cattle. sweep In pursuit of something for to eat, }i';;.jr as angels of the lord r_(':J eyes of the famished college horde ; On that pleasant eve of this ~pring time The boys marched over the ter- race to dine. Over the terrace winding round, One by one, into the pasture down, ·--silver stars, Forty bed-quilts \Vith their crim- son bars Flapped in the evening wind, The Dean of the faculty l9oked to see what was to be seen. Up rose the two fair damsels then, Fresh with their eight years and ten· ' Bqldest of all in Schenectady town~

THE CONCORDIENSIS. • 203 One gazed at the flags the boys hung down, Under her giddy hat, left and right . She glanced ; the bed-quilts met her sight, \Ihe boys leaned far out on the window sill . And shook them with. a royal wilL \'~ Shoot, if you must, those two red hats, But spare my bed-quilts for. the slats~\ A shade of sadness, a blush of shame, Over the face of.the n1aiden came; The nobler nature within her stir- red At that 1nan's deed, at that man's word. \'Who wishes a lock from my red head Must skip the gutter l come on! she said,\ · All the eve long through the pas- ture neat Sounded the tread of students' · feet, . And through the pasture the sun- set light Shown o'er the scene with a warm good night .. The two maidens' work is o'er And the s'tudent goes on its raids. no more, Shame to the two 1 and let a tear be shed For their sakes and their false red heads. the Freshman class of Union College vvhen but thirteen. years of age. fThe Faculty then consisted of Dr. i\rott, the President, three Professors, and several tutors. Union College was the present Un- ion SthQol building, with dormitories extending al()ng College Street to- wards Green Street. Between the College building and Green Street was a large College play-ground. Their principal gan1e \vas somewhat of a rudimentary type of base-ball, a crooked stick was u.sed as a bat and a ball .made of yarn took the place of the comm,on ball now used. Foot ball was very similar to the present game although, then, Q[ the rustic typej . In 1814 Mr. Fuller was adt11itted to the bar as a lawyer. His success in acquiring so much of the •• where- ;vitb\ testifies of his ability as a bus- Iness man. rsv e need only state for the benefit of strangers, that he was th.e sole donor of the :schenectady City Hall. · Mr. Fuller now possesses S()me of the rarest pieces of old furnitur~ that can be found anywhere. He has a piano probably one hundred and fifty years old, made in Germany by a brother of William B. Astor, which, as Mr. Fuller says, \ Is finished n1ore richly and sounds . better than any now manufactured.\ The piano is only one of the many specimens of his rare collection. We wish our ·old Alumni, at the unusual age of ninety, amid his many friends, may yet long enjoy his worldly accumulations. ) / 'ro. Gen. William K. Fuller, of. 4. Rev. Sylvester Woodbridge~ D. D , died at San Francisco, Cal,; January Ist, 1883, in his 70th year. Schenectady, is now the oldest living graduate of Union College. Having completed .the regular course of study in Schenectady Gram- mar School, he was admitted into Was born in Sharon, Conn., June 15. 1813, and graduated at Union Col lege in 1830. He then completed his course in Au burn Theological

204 THR CONCORDIENSlS .. Seminary in two years and graduated from Princeton Seminary in 1833. Preaching on Long Island, in West Hampton and in Hempstead in 1849, at the time of the great exodus, he went to California and there organ- ized the Prf·sbyterian chtl'rch, in Bernieia, and ministered for some years until he became editor of the Occident, in San Francisco. Dr. \Noodbridge filled the vacan·t pulpit of Cal'vary Church with great success .. l n 18 76 he organized the church bearing his name a,nd erected a neat edifice on the corner of Twentieth str~et vvhere he continued as pastor until his deathv (ie was a man of ability and use- fulness and his name will be asso- ciated with the earliest religious movenlents of California.) / V '49. Rev. Allan McFarland died April 3d, I 88. 3· v''~'.ss.. Rev. Columbus Cornforth died at Clyde January 31,. I 88 3· \fi 58.. Jeremiah Greene is a drug and crockery merchant at Clyde, N. Y. Was recently chosen as delegate to the general assembly of the Pres- ,byterian church at Saratoga, N. Y. \/'59~ Rev. G. D. B. Miller is prin- cipal of St .. Marks school, also offic- iating rector of St. Mark's church, Salt Lake City, ,j '70. John H. Clark is principal of Lyons JUnion School, Lyons, N. Y. V '70. Jefferson W. H oag is an en- terprising lawyer at Wolcott and at last election was chosen as District Attorney, ofWayne County, N.Y. I '76. Edward Hayward is a very successful principal at Clyde High School. · '78~ C. ~.L Culver, who has just returned frotn Europe, was the guest of Prof. Webster a few days. y~ 79· Lee Beattie is now a grad u- ate of Princeton T'heologicai Semin- ary but has not yet accepted a charge. vfsi ~ Schlosser is now te:tchingr V 1 82. Edward C. Whitmyer is prin- cipal of l..atin department at Canton University,. Canton, N. Y. ,.82. E. E. Ford wiH be in town during summer~ '82. Fay and Elder are on their way ho1ne to spend their vacation .. v \8z. Hinds is doing some mission- ary work in Canada. \84. George F. Parsons died Ap!ril 23d, 1883. (Again a Providential Hand has taken from the class of · 84 one of its members. Three of our· brothers have forever left '84 and are now at rest. Bound together by class spirit,. by syn1pathy for each other in trouble by our almost constant companion- ship in cla~s room and on campus, it is indeed with suppressed emotion that we draft the accustomed resolu-., tions and endeavor to show our af- fection for our departed class-mate. As a cotnpanion, Frank was ever lively and pleasant, always ready to lend his assistance in every college enterprise. His politeness and geni- al manners ·won for him many friends and placed him in Schenectady\ best society. The news of his dangerous sick- ness was a surprise to us, his death a blow. Our warmest sympathies are with his family in their great bereavement)

1..1') ·o N . en ;.....! rn '1-7.. ~ ·~ r--4 0 ·~ 0 u z 0 (.) ~ .~ '[--! WE SOLICIT YOU TO~STOP AT THE .. GEAND E:OTEL, UNION NEW YO~X CITY, (Opposite the Gra.nd. Central Depot.) Families, travelers and tourists arriving or leaving the City of New York to visit Niagara, Saratoga, vVhite Mountains, Long Branch, or other summer resort~, will tmd it convenient to stop at the GRAND UNION HOTEL. First-class in all appointments, elevator anct all modern improvements ; European plan, 45o elegantly furnished roon1s, rertuced to on~ dollar and up·wards per day, (a1so elegantly f11rnished suits for families) fitted up at a cost of one mil1it m dollars. Families, travelers and tr•urists can live better for le::;s m'mey at the GRAND UNION than at any other flrst-class Hotel m the city. Its dining rooms are elegantly carpeted; its Restaurant, Cafe, Lunch and Wine rooms are sup- plied with the best at mod~rate prices. An elegant Restaurant 75 feet square, just finished, where families can dine, I quietly ~s at home, and at a much less expense. A number of rooms elegantly fitted up for Dinner, Lunch anrl Sup~ 1 per parties. I . Guests' baggage to and frmn Grana Central Depot free, thus savin<.4 carriage hire and expense of haggag transfer. [ · W. D .. GARRISON, Manager. Try tht (;RAND UNION. I ·~ ~ bg -- c:/.2 - w • +-1 ~ if) ~ 2 C'd .... .+-J ~) if) o: Q~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ p::) ~ ~ 1J ~ Of.J-4 t3 ~ :' 't \0 0 0 ~ f-i ~ - ~ z I:Q 1-f 1=1 0::: 0 w ~ ·~ -.. C/':2 ~ oi3 r.il I> ~ . ~ ,.t:j r.il ~ 0 !;: ~ ~ ~ crS CrJ ~~ ro5 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ H ~ r-;:: ~ 0 J:!.t \--\ ..0 u .. c<:l .... -.. c:/) 0--4 ~ c:_:::) --. C/':2 S:d ~ ~~ -rl~ m ~ - . ~ mu ~AI ... Q.J >=! ~0 ... ~ $ ~ .. .,.,. \'\\\ ' 7 ::::S 1;'\S __. 2 1::: I ~ ~ -ll=iN~~oo'~ ~ f; ....... ~~I ~ ril <> Ul .,\ ~ ~ ~ .... W .:I .'E ~ ~ :2:1 1 ~ .@ d 0:: ~..c c ~ 0 ~ ~ ~ ~ s:::~mm ~ ......, \'~ (ij f/1 ....... ~ ~ ......... ·1-1'-< ,.., ' , ~ • \<N ~ ?-; \d ......,.,... o,.c ~ t:... u ~ ~ ..J ::::::: (.) ~ ~ L\' ~ cl rJ) ~ ~ a3 ~ ·~ ~ !l) >.~ Ji ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ \\d 0 ~ N03 ~ f .... , 0 ~~ciS\'\'~ ~...c: l '-J ~ C1) J!1 r.f} \'_J '> ~o ~=~~~: ~ ~:;:;>. 0~ <>uQ.) ~ Q C) 8'\0 a~ 1--7 ~ .!4r.:-~ ~ H ~~j ~ 1.-l Q.) !>r.Jl ~ ~ ~ ;:>~~~ I U . ,...... '\d \-4 I ........ p . (/) 8~ ... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ V) ~ ~ ~ ~ t-.... ~ (\:j ..... ~ ~ 0 0 s=: .. ,......,.... ~ ()) .,.....---,4 (lj (]) Q 0 .+-J 4--' en - ~ ~ (l) :> 0 s a,) ;..... .......-! .......-! ~ ... ==- :zii .~ ....rl c.::IP c:l:!! -== CD! ~ c::1t E/.lt ---=- c:oa Cl2 - .....,.::11 . .::-::a -=== CJt -- -== ;:;:. ..o:::t- CT.9 c::..13l

206 THE CONCORDIENSIS GEORGE E. VINCENT, GENT'S FURNISHING GOODS And Manufacturer of THE ANCIENT CITY SHIRT, 1Wjers Block., Schenectady, N. :(: CHAS. N. YATES, FURNITURE -AND- tTPHOL STERING WARE HOUSE, Speci'al A ttentzim given to Undertaking. 62 State Streel, Schenectady,- N. 1\: B. LODGE, Gent's Fashionable Custom Clothing. Bqys' Youth'~ and Children;s Clothing. 54 N. ·Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. BAUM'S CIGAR STORE -AND- NE·VVS-ROO:M Cigars and Tobacco Jf the Choicest Kinds constantly on hand. Cigarrettos a specialty. All the Leading Periodicals. Subscriptioi..., re- spectfully solicited. R. K. QUi\YLE, ALBANY 7 N.Y., Diplomas, ~·Views, Portraits, Wedding and College Invitations, Cards, Monograms, Etc. Original Designs when desired. •· WINDSOR RESTAURANT, FAIRFIELD 8a ELMENDORF, Props., JI &JJ Maiden Latze, Albany, N. Y WILSON DAVIS, Merchant Tailor I5I State St.,Schenectady, N. Y. ALBANY AGENCY FOI PoPE M 'F'G Co.J CO I.J UlVlBIA Blt0Yt0LES, ALSO DEALER IN ~~porting 1;1ood6 OI' ALL KINDS, W .xg .xPADDOgK, 6o State Street, Albany, N. Y. A FINE LOT OF BOOTS SHOES & RUBBERS, Always in Stock at J f G. SCHUMACHER'S NO. 267 STATE STREET, (Near Crescent Park) Especial Care given to Custotn Work. . Call and see for yourself. Dr. B. F. Cai~Inichael, D€Jte0IS?9 ' . 82 Ferry Street, Schenectady, N. l:.,.. All openitions · upon the teeth per- . form.ed with neatness and dispatch. All classes of work performed at about one-half the usual prices. Teeth filled with Gold, $1 .oo and upward. Fillings other than Gold, 50 cents. Teeth Extracted with Gas, soc; without Gas, 25c. All Work VVyarranted. Patronized by Faculty and Students. R .. 0;7NEIL, ji I\YI1 I g T !J1 ji I lc 0 Il, No. I24 State Street, SCHENECTAD'(; l\~ r.

:: THE CONCORDIENSIS. 207 WOOD BROS., Large lme of fiid, lloth, ~ lined llo¥e~ AND MITTENS. !?~~Ir~ -T~s ~- =-= :=J = = -= ~ . Ready Made and Made to Order. A L.ARGE LINE OF UNDERWEAR. All the Latest Style of SCARFS, TIES, CO LL1\RS, &c. (;.oods received for Troy Laundry. I 33 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. CONRt\D GCETZ, MERCHANT TAILOR, AND DEALER I:'-l\ . Foreig1z and Domestic Woolen Goods, 85 Oan.tre Street, Schenectady, N. Y, Perfect Fit and Good Work Guaranteed. 20 PER CENT SJ VED BY GOING TO LE.WIS FELDMANN To have your Clothing Cut and Made FOR FALL AND WINTER. IS7 State St., Cor. R. R. Up tairs. Go ·ro lowerc, the ll1otographer, FOE :BE!:iT PHOTOGRAPHS, 225 State Street, Sche1zectady, N. Y. New goal & Wood Yard. LEIFELS & McDONALD, 95 Fonda Street, near Union_. Coal Delivered, Screened. FROM UNDER COVER, ->7·-s-A YfxhOWE~TxMARKETxPRlgE~.o%-~;- STUDENTS! Buy your Co~l ~t the ~e~rest fl~e l . J. H. BARHYTE, DEALER IN . BOOKS AND ST)TIONE~Y Paper Ha1zgings and Decorations. A FULL LINE .OF COLLEGE TEXT :BOOXS, ~Rooms papered as Short Notice. I I I State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. GEO. E. DURYEE, DRUGGIST, I9I State Street, Schenectady, N. 1. THOS. H. REEVES & CO. Dealer in Staple and Fancy DRY GOODS, Carpetings, :._: 1 Cloths, Etc. Also a Full Line of Cloths and Cassimeres. IJ7 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. FALL HATS· AND V\!inter CAPS. The Largest and Best Assortment of Nobby Styles to be found in the city. SAVE A DOLLAR. BEYER the. HATTER, I 49 State Street, ScheJZectady, N. Y. FRENCH & JOHNSON, ME~CHANT TAILO~SJ No. 35 Maiden Lane, A L B ~ NY, N . Y. W. T. HANSON & CO .. Druggists and Apothecaries, 'roile~ Articles and Druggists' Sundriez, FINE CIGARS A SPECIALTY. Proprfetors of HANSON'S MAGIC CORN SALVE, I95 State St., Sche1zectady, N.Y.

208 THE CONCORDIENSIS F. DE F. GRAY. . / Successor to J. C. DuELL, Operative an.d Mechanical DENTIST! Office and Re~idtnce, No. 47 State St., Schenectady, .N. Y. GO TO FOR BARGAINS IN :BO(lts, Sho·es & Rubbers, BARNEY BLOCK, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Only Pure Tobacco and Pure f-Japer! SWEET CAFORAL, CoRK MouTHPIECE.-Unsurpassed for cleanliness, c:::m- omy and convenience. The soft feeling of the cork between the teeth makes this the most desirable and pleasant mouth- piece, besides absorbing the nicotine and rendering a cooling sensation to the smoke. · Same tobacco as the renowned SwEER CAPORAL CIGAR- ETTES, absolutely pure. The Caporal, Caporal ;~ and Veteran Mouthpiece Cigarettes are highly recommended. STRAIGHT-CUT CIGARETTES. This reliable brand is made from extra fine, selected, prime, mild, Golden Virginia Leaf, and is the FINEST CIG- ARETTE as to Quality, Flavor, and Workmanship, ever OF- FERED FOR SAtE. Ask for KINNEY BROS. STRAIGHT CUT; KrNNEY ToBAccco CC', NEw YoRK, Manufacturers of the following well-known brands; CAPORAL, CAPORAL ~, SWEET CAPORAL, ST. JAMES, ST. JAMES % MATINEE, ENTRE NOUS, SPORTS, AMBASSADOR, UNION CLUB, VETERAN, ETc.,. ETc. J1W='Buy no other. Sold by all dealers throughout the world. W. & L. E. GTJRLE\:-, Manufacturers of CtViL ENGINEER' & SURVEYORS' INSTltUMENTS, TROY, N.y. Dealers in Drawing Instruments of every description, Sheet and Roll Drawing Paper, Engineers' and Surveyors Transits, &c., &c. ROBER. T 1'. MOIR, (Successor 'to John Gilmour), DEALER IN EOCXS, STAr·I~~,G!Y AN~ PAPER HANGING~, NOS. 2()-I STATE & 116 CENTRE ST., SCHEN,EC1'ADY, N. Y. Agency for Anchor, In.ITian and Hamhurgh-American Trans- Atlantic Steamship Lines. STANFORD BLOCK. $HOE~ IN LATE$T $TYLE. TO MEASURE. FIT GUARANTEED l -T-u- .cr~ T·~ =vrr\\u = . - _:.J = -- ~-- ~~ TweddlB Hall $hoe $tore, ALBANY, N. Y. DE~ITIST, 23 5~ State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. A. l3ROWN & SON, UP:H()LSTERERS AND Furniture Manufacturers. I54 State Street, Sclze12ectady, N. IT. L. T. CLUTE, FASHIONABLE HATTER, Agent for Dunlap & Knox llats. Best assortment of Hats,Caps, Trunks, Bags, &c. in the city IOI State St., Sche12ectady, N. Y. - --- - ~---- -------- ~ ------- ---------- G. PALMATIER, CUSTOM B001)\~D SHOE M}KER. lte:pa,iring Fromptly Done 82 Centre Street, .)(;lzenectady, N. Y.

.. CONCORDIENSIS VOL. VI. ScHENECTADY, N. Y., MAY, 1883. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE STUD;ENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. E:nteted at the Post Office at Schenectady as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN--CHIEF- JOHN R. HARDING, '83. Li~erary Department, I Athletic Department, '\ j. W. HIGSON, '84. Local Department, f Z. CLARK, '84. F .. BAILEY, '85. E. MITCHELL, '8 5 . Personal Department, Exchange Department, } Extranea Department, Collegensia Department. - ]. H. VEEDER, '84. E. H. ADRIANCE, '83. BUSINESS MANAGER-A. T. C. HAMLIN, '83. THE CONCORDIENSIS. ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE. SINGLE NUMBERS, TEN CENTS. ADI,RESS: A. T. C. HAMLIN, P. 0. Box, 456, Schenectac(y, N. Y. ~ The CoNCORDH:Nsis will be found on sale at Bm·hyte's, I I I State Street. Printed by Chas. Burrows, Steam Printer, 187 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. -:+«ON TENT~.~- EDITORIAL DEPARTMENT, LITERARY DEPARTMENT. 181 Poem, Violet, .. 186 Poen1, A New Version of an Old Story, I 86 A Nuisance in Petti-Coats, 187 Poem, When the Freshmen March ont to Drill, - 193 One Summer, To the Dandelion, Freshie's Dilemma, ~lditoriaJ. W E would be very glad if all those who are indebted to the CONCORDIENSIS would settle with the editors now as soon as pos- sible, so that we can square up all accounts for the incoming board. A LL who wish to fill out the year's file of papers for bind- ing can procure them from the Chief Editor or the Businc!ss Manager. The year's issue, when bound makes a very 11:eat volume which every stu- dent would naturally prize in after times, particularly for the locals. Mr. Teller, the college binder, does a very good job and at medium prices. T HE Seniors have enjoyed the work in Architecture this term. Prof. Staley has given the regular series of Stereoptican views accom- panied with his usual interesting . LocAL DEPARTMENT, - PERSONAL DEPARTMENT, 194 197 197 198 203 lectures. tlaving visited many of the places and studied the Architec- tural forms which he shows, he seems to take pleasure in the work. The l I : 1- :: l f Jl f i . I l i 1 , I t \ ! i ,. ·I ' ' ~ 1 :• ;; 't \ ~ J L r ~: \ ,, . ~ \ ;' ' ! I f l ' : i \ ·~ I i t l l ' ' ' l t ! i ~ • f •I ~ ~ ); I ~ I ~ J ~ I I ~ l I •1 i! ,., ;. ,, I ti t, ' I !' r f •i l l l \ 1 ,! j i l I ' I ( i:

THE CONCORDIENSIS. Prof. is still, we are sorry to say, suf- ferring from rheumatism, which we hope the returning warm weather will drive away. ' .8 3 will soon be. on the long · roll .of Alumni. These gray walls, college associations, the recit· ation room and the campus are all nearly in the past and the battle of life is now to begin ; 'an old story, but still one for deep reflection. The question is, what are we, one and all to do in the great world before us ? Generations are passing away and positions of honor and trust will soon be ready for us to fill. How rnarty hundred have stood upon the same threshold with as bright an- ticipations as ours and have yet inade • their life a failure? Our fortune is in our own hanps. We are now men, men in age. and thought, let us then, like men go forward to the battle and with the guiding hand of wis- dom, justice and honesty assume our positions in the great arena. A tennis court adorns the ·cam- pus. We are glad to see an interest shown in any athletic .sports, especially in those which add life and spirit to leisure hours. Now I that a boat club has been successfully organized why not renew the prae- tice of the shells on the river ? The Mohawk affords a beautiful course for rowing arl\d cettainl Y' there are plenty of men who can take the mat- ter in hand and make it a success. T . HE Gar1:zet has at last made its appearance. The editors deserve much credit for the neatness and general make up of the entire book. A most striking feature, and what is certainly an improven1ent is the substantial binding, an imitation of leather. This gives the book 1n uch more value, as heretofore the covers have been so thin as to be of . very little protection. Leading features are photographs of Hon. Clarkson N. Potter, Profs. Price and Perkins ; a short sketch of the '' Or- ganization and Early History \ of Union College, by Prof. Wells and a wonderfully clever (?) traged), en- titled \ Macbeth:' This last is a new field of literature not often in- dulged in by Union students, yet certainly in this case is a success. The '' Song of Old Union,\ too, ap- pears still grander nestled among \ Old Union's\ surroundings. The Satires are very bold and bad and although striking so.me too har~ are yet well selected. The CoNcOR- DIENSIS would like to answer \ Facts for Investigations \ but they are rid- dles not to be answered in this gen- eration. The \ Colonel's Soliloquy \ deserves mention as being character- Istic of him. The cuts are nearly

