' The Concordien_sis. VoL VII. UNION UNIVERSITY, FRIDAY, JAN. 25, 1884. No.4· THE CONCORDIENSIS, PUBLISHED MONTHLY, BY · THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY. BOARD OF EDITORS: JOHN F. DELANEY, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF. ASSOCIATE EDITORS. UNION CoLLEGE: R. R. BENEDICT, '8+. PuTNAM CADY, '85. LAw ScHooL: B. C. SLoAN. J. T. MoREY, '85. E. E. VEEDER, '86. F. E. SMITH. MEDICAL CoLLEGE: C. F. TIMMERMAN, '84. J. A CuTTER, '86. S. E. ARMSTRONG, '85. ScHOOL oF PHARMACY: I. P. EsTCOURT. A. McFARLANE, Busz'?tess Jl{anag-er. All communications should be addressed to P. 0. Box g6o. Articles requested from the Alumni. TERMS.-One Dollar and a-half per year, in advance. Remit to the order . of Business Manager. E'ntered at the Schenectady, N. Y., Post-Office as second-class matter. I F we thought it would produce any· good effect, we ~ould complain of certain changes in the Faculty, and especially of some of the assignrnents of pro- fessors for this tern1. The senior class is the one principally affected. We hope the present arrange- ment is but ternporary, and that the Faculty will soon be strengthened by the appointlnent of one or n1ore good, able men. serious thought, and we believe Mr. Alexander con- sulted less his own wishes and preferences in the 1natter than duty and the welfare of the church of God. He is a loss not only to the college as an insti- tution, but also to the individual men of this college on whon1 his influence was potent and beneficial. He goes to a wider field of labor, to increased responsi- bilities, but with faith and ability sufficient for the work. The Christian church of the Metropolis has gained a new leader who shall animate the followers of Christ not by words alone, but by deeds, and who shall prove even to those who believe not, the br>auty I and strength of character which Christ can give. WE :egret to say that .the ~ymnasium is. at present 1n a deplorable situation. Long s1nce all the du1nb bells and every other. available object have dis- appeared. There is no instructor, and as a natural consequence athletics have been almost entirely neg- lected. Even the non-portable fixtures are loose, and so1ne of the1n partially broken, while the 1nats are . . I used for almost any purpose but that for which they were intended. As yet, the Athletic Association has been unable to provide any new fixtures, and, indeed, it would be utterly useless in the present state of affairs. This elen1ent of physical culture should not be entirely disregarded by any college. Of the men · who attend our colleges to-day, a large number have not the physique necessary to the acquire1nent of a 1 good education. Development of body is as ilnpor:t- ant as the developtnent of n.1ind; and the former sho11ld keep pace with the latter. W E would like 1o ren1ind our delinquent editors of the duties they owe to their associate editors, as well as to their class1nates. He who will accept the i1npottant position of editor, and then strive to do nothing for the support of the paper, or the literary reputation of his college, ought, in son1e · 1nanner, to reap the reward oChis indifference. , JN the early part oflast term we effected an arrange- ; ment with Prof. Lamoreaux., whereby contributions R EV. GEORGE ALEXANDER, who has held the ! to this paper would be accepted by hilu as essays. It chair of Logic and Rhetoric in this college for • was then confidently expected that this arrangement I I 111 any years, has resigned his position and has accepted ; would arouse a strong literary rivalry antong the stu- a call from the University Place Church of New York \ dents, and that there would be contributed many city. This action was taken only after long and I articles of such a nature as to elevate the character of .. . I ,. ' ~ \ .,• :.\ ..

,,., ·~~'t :.~ ,''·11', ,;j .. TI-IE CONCORDIENSIS. this paper. :But such has not been the result, for dur- ing the last four n1onths only two articles have been contributed by students, exclusive of the editors. Though regretting our failure in this atten1pt, we hope to attain our end, viz : to make literary excel- lence an object of strife and reward by the following . induce1nent .: We offer two prizes (ten dollars each) for the two best o~·iginal articles (in the fonn of a thesis or essay and story respectively) subn1hted on or before February 15th, r884. A heart, I deem not worth to keep, Yet hope thou wilt receive. • EXAGGERATION . A. B. BISHOP. THERE is no habit 1nore extensively practiced and · yet 1nore practically useless, plainly un<;alled for, utterly truthless and de1noralizing than that of exagger- tion. It leads directly to practical lying; to lying, in 1 fact, when the desired object could be attained more easily by telling the truth. Some men1 ber of the faculty will be requested to act as judge in detennining the respective 1nerits of' the · articles. We trust not so rnuch to the value of the It is sometimes said of a person that \he will lie even when the truth would serve him better.\ If, indeed, there is a person so unlucky, he will :find if he were to trace back the habit, that it has grown out of the practice of exaggeration. prize, which is small;- indeed, to secure our end as we do to the competition which this will naturally arouse. Among the locals will be found the conditions, as few and as sitnple as possible, governing this competition. A FAREWELL. Farewell, dear heart, Since we must part, Let 's kiss through smiles-not tears. Let grief not mar Those eyes, which far Out-peer the hue the violet wears, Or brightness of a star. If ever soul, 'Neath Fate's control, Hath chafed and been perverse, Mine loathes its chain But ah ! how vain Is every breathed sigh or curse Or monody of pain ! The rose of June Will blow full soon, And, on some distant shore, Its blushing hue Will bring to view The cheeks that I have pressed of yore, And lips of honey-dew. And,)f no thing Of beauty bring This face again to ·thee, 0 may some strain Of this refrain :Find echo in thy memory, -Yet there beget no pain ! Then farewell, sweet, When next we meet, We '11 kiss and smile-not weep. Then cease to grieve- With thee I leave It seen1S to be a part of our perverted nature, froln childhood up, to create a sensation ; if the truth won't do it we exaggerate, and by the time the story goes· around it has beco1ne a huge_lie-many little lies piled on top of each other, n1aking a great pile of nonsense and absurdities. Did we ever, while exaggerating stop to think of just what we said-of the picture we have presented) to our friend? In our ordinary conversation we are so enthusiastic, or such is our poverty of expression, that we cannot talk upon the 1nost ordinary topic, ex- cept in the n1ost enraptured and extrav~gant terms; everything handson1e is \a beauty,\ \perfectly sp'len- did,\ or \ elegant; \ everything that pleases us is \de- lightful,\ \splendid \channing or \positively delicious;\ everything that displeases us is\ dreadful,\ \hateful \horrible \shocking or \contemptibly mean.'' Listen for a while to a circle of lively young ladies and you will find that within the cotnpass of a few short hours they have enjoyed n1ore rapture; endured more pain, passed through 1nore thrilling experiences, and seen 1nore gorgeous spectacles, met with 1nore tnarvelous adventures and\ hair-breadth escapes,'' than could be crowded into a whole life-time, even if car- ried out into three score and ten; and possibly they have been \ sc.ared to death '' two or three ti1n~s. Ask your friend what he thinks of the weather. in a stormy season, and he will tell you that it \rains pitch-forks,\ '' cats and dogs ; \ that \ it beats every storm since or before the flood.\ If he gets his clothes a .little wet in crossing the street he has, in his own words, \ been drenched to the skin,'' and \ the 1nud is everywhere up to one's knees.\

' f t f ' ·• . THE CONCORDIENSIS. 57 A cloudy day is \·terribly gloomy,\ or \as dark as Egypt~\ All the winds \ blow a hurricane.\ All the fogs\ can be cut with a knife,\ and if the roads are dry and dusty he ''breathes a p·int of dHst per hour.'' All fires are \conflagrations though only a fence is burned. All our railroad trains \ run like lightning,\ all our orators \ rival Den1osthenes.\ Our good men are ''paragons of virtue,\ and our villains are \mon- sters of iniquity.\ , We cannot be too careful in our use of words; we may express in glowing terms a scene that is grand, a wretch that is terrible, but jast as soon as we exagger- ate we overstep the bounds of truth. Not only our , great thinker~ and writers, but our most powerful ora- tors have been distinguished rnore for n1oderation than exaggeration in expression. Again, if we n1ake it a practice to use such extrava- gant expressions when we contemplate things of minor importance, we stand dmnb before things that are grand, unable to express ourselves, fro1n the fact that we have exhausted all our store. All those expressions, these . words that are grand, should be used only in speaking of things that are grand and noble, and not wasted on things less worthy of then1. Let the ex- pression be suited to the object, the word to the action. Nor does the habit of exaggeration, of stepping over the truth, end with the one who practices it. The child's confidence in its parent's integrity is unbounded 1 until that parent oversteps the line of truth and is de- tected ; then the confidence is shaken, the i1nplicit trust the child forn1erly had is in part gone, the seed of i1nn1oraliiy is planted which, if not plucked out, will germinate, grow and bring forth fruit to the dishonor of its name. L. V. A. A SABBATH MORN .• 'Tis Sabbath morn; bright shines the rising sun, And pours its rays upon the waking earth In showers of liquid gold : and as its beams Light up the western hills and flood the vales, All Nature rouses from her dewy sleep, And once again begins her song of praise. The countless orbs of light that decked the sky, When midnight wrapped the earth in silent gloom, Have paled and fled before the orb of day. Still with its restless waves the heaving sea, Like some fierce Lion in its narrow cage, Beats on its rocky bars with sullen roar, Or licks with frothy tongue the golden sand. A holy hush has fallen on the scene; The bre.eze sighs suftly through the waving trees, And on the trembling grasses seems to play, Waki~g sweet music as upon a harp; While with the low, soft murmur comes the sound Of running water and of lovving kine And the strange humming of the insect world. And, like an organ's louder, richer notes, That soar aloft in sweetest majesty, While the deep bass rolls on in monotone, Rise the clear voices of unnumbered birds, Each pouring forth its little song of praise And trembling in his heartfelt ecstacy, As if his joyful thoughts were coming fast, Too fast for utterance. Thus Nature's voice, From land and sea, from plain and wooded hili, In one sublime, united burst of praise, Rises like incense, to h.er Maker's throne. And shall proud 111an, the greatest work of all, Made in God's image, in whose lifeless frame He breathed the breath of life, giving him power O'er every living thing,-shall he, I say, Refuse to his Creator, Savior, Lord, The grateful, heartfelt homage that he owes? Shall he, alone of all God's n1ighty works, Be· dumb, doubt, and deny His boundless love? No! Let each living thing awake to praise, And raise his voice, though feeble it may be, To swell the song that shakes the universe: To Him who hath loved us and saved us from sin, The Maker, Preserver of Heaven and of earth, Be blessing; and honor, and glory and power, Both novv and forever and ever ! Amen. E.T. R. ADVANTAGES OF A COLLEGE EDUCATION. JT often happens that young men in the pursuit of a profession neglect to avail then1selves of a course ·at college, under the delusion that all knowledge which does not pertain to their profession is useless and not worth the ti1ne spent in acqtiiring it. I do not ignore the fact that four years is a long tin.1e to spend in pre- paring the way for a profession, especially when that time is taken fro1n the n1ost important period of our youth, yet we estitnate the worth of an object only by comparing it with so1ne other object, and, when con1- pared with the probability .of success or failure in the great enterprises of life, four years sinks into insignifi- cance. It is n1y purpose to re111ove this delusion as far as possible from the 1ninds of 1ny reader-s, and if I shall be successful, I shall not think 1ny tirne spent in vain. For the most part those who labor under this delusion are such as think that to acquire wealth is the only success in life. Did I think thus, I would lay aside tny pen, shut my books, and forever be silent, for to beco1ne a miser requires none of the advantages

THE CONCORDIENSIS. of a college course. Considering, then, that we are successful in life only so far as we have contributed to the happiness and welfare of our fellow 1nen, I will proceed. I doubt whether men who have barely Inas- tered the rudiments of learning are capable of tn~ster­ ,ing any n1ore than a proportionate an1ount of their · profession, for it is i1npossible to rear upon a narrow and poorly laid foundation so broad and elegant an after-structure as upon a foundation broad and firmly 'laid. Having acquired no knowledge outside of their 1 profession they beco1ne narrow n1inded and the scope ·of their reason is litnited to one corner in the intellec- tual world, as one who is continually looking at near objects becon1es short-sighted and his v.iew is limited to a stnall circle of the physical world. On the other hand, 1nen at college are trained in 1nany departrnents of thought, so that they are capable of judging of all the 1nore i1nportant questions of life. On questions of ~minor in1portance one n1ay be as capable of judging as the other; but when great questions arise-questions upon which the prosperjty of a nation, the happiness of individuals, and perhaps life G~:nd death depend- then the men· who have been trained at our colleges and whose foundations of thought have been deeply ; and finnly laid c01ne to the front, and all others are compelled to yield to them, for the people will-confide only in those who are capable of protecting their inter- ests. Did all young men who desire .a professional career avail the1nselves of a college education, there would not be so n1any insignificant professional 1nen ekeing out a wretched existence and bringing disgrace upon their profession. It is not sitnply to read a cer- tain amount of Greek and Latin that n1en go to col- lege, though to correctly underst~nd all professional terms a. thorough knowledge of these is necessary. The great object, however, is to discipline the n.1ind, which gradually n1ounts higher and higher into the regions of thought until it astonishes the world with new revelations. I do not say that without a college education you cannot acquire wealth and the distinc- tion which necessarily follows it, but I do say that you cannot, except in rare instances, acquire any distinc- tion beyond this. Finally there is a charm about a college education, as about religion, which only those who have tried it are capable of feeling. STUDENT. DEATH OF\ COL.\ PICKETT. ALL who have attended the college at any tin1e dur- . ing the past twenty-three years ren1e1nber \Col.\ Pickett, and with regret will they learn that his fmnil- iar face can never again. be seen L>n college hill. After serving the institution faithfully for nearly a quarter of a century as superintendent of buildings and farm, dur- ing the holiday vacation he willingly gave up his spirit to the God who 1nade it. \Col.\ Pickett was not a great 1nan, as this world counts greatness, but he was an eminently good n1an. Kindness and piety were deep-seated in his heart, and the :first principle of his life seemed to be to do his duty toward God and 1nan. He was active in church work, punctual and regular in his attendance upon divine worship, and was a friend to those in need. Neither cold nor heat could keep hi1n from his work, to which he gave his undivided attention. Befor<;;l others thought of arising in the morning he was around to see if everything was secure and to re1nedy any dan1age done by fun-loving students during the night. Many stories are told of the boys trying to outwit the \Colonel and signaHy failing in each atten1pt. If they stole chairs or desks from the recitation roon1s and hid the1n in some unfrequented spot, the \ Col- onel \ was sure to find and restore the1n before the ti1ne for recitation. He vvas a philosopher and lecturer in his way, and being brought into close contact with the students, n1any are the truthful: sayings ren1e1nbered by the boys. In everything he saw the goodness and love of the Creator. During a SUll:llner shower it was his custo111 to ren1a.rk to those whorn he 1net, \What a kind Father we have in heaven; He knows that we have need of · rain and He sends it.\ Yes, the \ Colonel\ has passed away, and his kind and hearty \Good 1norning, doctoT,\ will be sadly mi~sed, not only by the students, but also by the alutnni .as they return each commencen1ent day. Well could such a rpan . on his dying bed exclaim with Paul : \I have fought the good fight; I have finished the course, I have kept the faith; henceforth there is laid up for rne a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righ:teous Judge, shaJl give to 1ne at that day.\ N.Y. STATE INTER-COLLEGIATE B. B. LEAGUE. THE need of a N. Y. State Inter-collegiate B. B .. · League has long been felt. During the last few seasons college nines were compelled to play for the most part with local or professional tea1ns on account of the difficulty ofarra11ging dates with other colleges. Therefore for the past few weeks a n1ove1nent has been on foot to revive the o1d B. B. association which exist- ed four years ago. Pursuant to arrangement, a n1eet- ing of delegates fro1n Cornell, Hamilton, Rochester, H ar le el pl Ul e:: ti tl t< l v: . li s1 S] E 2 l I 1 r '

\fter ·of a dur- >pirit ·orld 11an. and , his urch 1pon rork, ~for<;;l )Ulld ·any ight. : the If >Ol11S Col- the and ents, >oys. the 5t0111 tther d of· kind adly the Well 'aul: the laid ~ord, UE. ~. B .. few the ::>unt ~ges. )een xist- Leet- ster, THE CONCORDIENSIS. 59 ters of English, Cardinal Newrnan. You do not know the full extent of the resources of our language if you have not read son1e of the best works of N ew1nan. And now I will take two of your own writers. First, Daniel 'Vebster, a 1nan the majesty of whose presence I well ren1e1nber, for he visited n1y father, and I ~ad the honor of having hin1 take n1e ·by the hand, and of speaking to hin1, or rather of being spoken to by hin1 as a boy. I learned tnany passages fro1n him in my boyhood, which I retnember still, from an old two-vol- Hobart and Union was held at Utica on Jan. I I th, and a prelilnfnary organization wa~ effected. The name of the organization is the N. Y. State Inter-col- legiate B. B. ~eague. Mr. Bro~n of Rochester was elected president, Mr. Pierson of Hobart, vice-presi- president, Mr. Lee of Hamilton, secretary and treas- urer. An executive cotnlnittee of one delegate fton1 each of the colleges represented is to be appointed by the president\ and to n1eet son1:etin1e before the end of ; the present tern1 to arrange a schedule of garnes and to transact other necessary business. We wish the League success, and would urge upon Union the ad- visability. of taking imtnediate action, that we 111ay send into the field as strong a team as possible. lH11e edition of his speeches, for the larger collection, : edited by Mr. Everett, had not yet been published. i Study vVebster. And next I 'vill n1ention your great- : est writer, the tnaster of an exquisite and an absolutely : perfect style, Nathaniel Hawthorne. [Extract frcnn speech of Lord Coleridge delivered before the students of Haverford College. This is considered the ablest speech which Lorcl Coleridge has delivered in this country.- ED.] Then to nan1e the great Greek and Latin tnasters. I do not know how far you study them here, but I was brought up upon them, and a great part of the litera- ture which I committed to metnory in my youth was you n1ay be surprised at the natne I shall select : fro1n their writings. There was a tin1e, doubtless, when from your American poets when I tell you to they were too exclusively stt1died. Doubtles_s, too, learn Bryant. I do not say Longfellow, because, there were second rate, third rate and fourth rate although he :is a sweet and noble and delightful poet, authors who wrote in those languages, and whose he is n't Arnerican-I n1ean that his poetry might just works have been con1mented upon by able editors as well have been written in England, or Italy, or Ger- But as n1asters of literature, the great classic writers many, or France as in A1nerica, but Mr. Bryant's are si1nply perfect. And of those of whon1 you should poetry is full of the characteristics of his own country, study and learn by heart, I will name five : first, cer- as well as noble, natural and invigorating. tainly, Hom~r; second, as certainly, Virgil ; then And now for the prose writers : I shall show n1y Euripides; then Catullus ; the 1 1 Horace. own idiosyn~rasy ·when I nan1e at the head of my list I cannot too earnestly recotnmend your acquainting Lord Bolingbroke, as a writer of the n1ost perfect Eng- yourselve.s with good books. They are the best of lish, rising at ti1nes to a nervous and sinewy eloquence companions. In sickess, in rnisfortune, in sorrow, in and falling with his subject, but never. below the tone sleepless nights and days of pain, you will find your of the co11versation of a high-bred gentleman. Next, n1e1nories of great and wholesome literature a constant I place the greatest advocate since Cicero-and I say solace and refreshrnent. And, as a 111 an is known by this even rernen1bering your own Webster-Lord Ers- , the company he keeps, still n 1 ore truly is he known by kine. You will find nowhere better English than in ! the books he reads and loves. Read only the best so1ne of his sentences. Then Burke, of whon1 Erskine , books, and never read bad books. Good books will hi1ns~lf spoke so highly. Then Hooker, whon1 I ; nerve you for the work-the serious and earnest work should not recon1mend to be read as a '¥hole, except ; -which is the lot of all good and true men For, to by theological students; but he has written so1ne pas- ; quote the great writer, Dr. Young-not from his sages which cannot be surpa~sed. Then that great ; \Night Thoughts,\ but fron 1 his \ Satires,\ a work man, Lord Bacon, with words of exactest choice and i rnuch less known- profoundest wisdom, who1n I cannot forbear quoting, . \This is the scene of con1.bat, not of rest; although he will make 1ny own words poor and worth- : Man's is laborious happiness at best, less in the comparison. On this side Death-h1s labors never cease \ Reading n1aketh a full man, conference a ready ! His joys are joys of conqu.est, not of peace.\ n1an, and wTiting an exact 1nan,\ etc. And one word n1ore, as I counsel you to earnest And nexi I shall natne a man who had great influ- and faithful lives. See to it that you preserve your e11ce upon tl.le at Oxford, and who, in spite of his change n1oral purity. Do not believe those who tell you that of religion, ren1ains to be one of the greatest mas- i such an achieven1ent is i1npossible in this world. It is :. ·! J_ ~\'' , .a· ~~A!,; .. ,'l{'. \'i : . .,.· j>' ~ ' , .. , ~ '' ,'l' ~~ ).;~ l1•' ' j

\$ 6o THE CONCORDIENSIS. ! perfectly possible, as many have proved. And nothing ' son1e years. While in Albany he modeled 1nany busts wiU so help you to [t, nothing will tend n1ore to keep of public n1en,. in addition to the \Four Seasons,\ for you from evil, than the cor_npan.y of good books the thoughts and counsels of good 1nen. and I the late· Ezra Prentice, Esq., of Mount Hope. Mr. I ! Brown went abroad on leaving Albany and located in FINE ART IN EARLY DAYS. Q F the artists that visited Albany in the early part of the present century, there were none of then1 ren1ained in the city any great length of time-tnore than to co1nplete their corn.n1issions. Mr. Ezra An1es was probably the first artist that 1nade Albany his per- manent home. Mr. Ames was born at Fra1ninghan1:, Mass., May sth, I 768. He was by trade a· fancy and ornatnental painter on wood-work. Mr. Ames took to portrait painting soon after locating in Albany. f!is success in portraiture at that early day secured hirn I the friendsh.ip of nearly all the public n1en who resided 1 in Albany. The exhibition of Governor George Clin- i ton's full-length portrait in the Penn. sylvania Academy I of Fine Arts in the year r812, brought Mr. Atnes into , public notice. as an artist of fine taste for color and 1 1 good drawing. He also painted the portrait of Gov- ernor De Witt Clinton. So1ne years later the portrait I is among the collection of Governors' portraits belong- I' ing to the city of Albany. At a late 1neeting of the Comn1on Council, a resolu- tion was adopted ordering the hanging of the portraits 1 in the new City Hall. The full-length portrait of Gen- 1 eral Washington that has hung behind the speaker's : desk in the old Assembly chan1ber was a copy by , Ames from Stuart's painting of Washington, belonging ' to the Lord Lansdown estate. Mr. Ames established an art gallery, which was located on South Pearl street near Plain. It was a great resort for the ad1nirers of the fine arts. There were among the collection a number of for- i eign works by artists who stood high in their pro- 1 fession, besides a large collection of Mr. A1nes' best : works. The artist's studio was in a roo1n off the gal- lery, where he painted up to the ti1ne of his death, which took place in Albany, February 23d, r836. A few years after the death of Mr. Ames, Mr. , Henry Kirk Brown located in Albany. Mr. Brown : I was born in Lyden, Mass., in the year 1814. \Vhile ! quite young he comn1enced painting portraits in : :Boston, under the instruction of Chester Harding, . I with much success; he had a :fine feeling for color, : and his drawings were considered good for that early · day. In 18 3 7 he went west and located in Cincinnati, Ohio, where he 1nodeled with some success. About 1840 he located in Albany, where he ren1ained for Italy, where he modeled with success. He returned to New York in 1846. While· ren1aining in Albany he had as a pupil Mr. George Fuller, the present en1inent artist of Boston. Mr. John Q. Ward, one of An1erica's 111:ost successful scu'lptors, was a pupil of Mr. Brown in New Y ark city. The Washington equestrian statue in Union Square, New York city, was by Mr. Brown. It was the first large successful figure cast in bronze in this country. Mr. :Brown resides in his pleasant rural home, on the bank of the Hudson, near the city of Newburgh, N.Y. The men1bers of \The Sketch Club \ are n1aking decided progress in their drawings, the n1en1bership is keeping up; there has been but two or three that have dropped off since the organization was co1npleted. At the last 1neeting of the club the n1embers decided to hold two meetings in each week, on Tuesday and Thursday evenings. The Thursday evening n1eeting is to be held at sotue of the n1en1bers' hotnes, where, in connection with their . art studi~s, the 1ne1n- bers hope to co1nbine 1nusic, singing and recitations. One of the rules of the club is to donate to the host or hostess of the evening a sketch, as a souvenir fron1 the club. * * * ... THE following explains itself: To tlze Boat Clztbs of Bowdoin College, Maine; Dart- moutlz College, Ne'ZV Hampslzire; Harvard Uni- versity, WesleyaJt U1zi7.Jersity, Amherst College and Anzherst Ag-ricultural College, Massachu- setts J. Brown Uniz1ersity, Rhode Island; Trinz'ty College and Yale Uniz1ersity, Connect/cut; [}jzio1z College, Hamilton College, Columbia College and Cornell Uniz,ersit], New York; and Princeto1z College, New Jersey; all of which institutions at oJZe time or another patiicipated in the Regattas of the Inter- Collegiate Ro,wing Association. In the spring of 1882 Yale University, then holding the best title to the Inter-Collegiate chan1pionship in eight-oared shell rowing, was challenged by the Uni- versity of Pennsylvania to an eight-o,ared shell race. This challenge was declined. In 1883, Harvard Uni- versity, holding as above the cha1npionship, was in like manner challenged by the University of Pennsylvania to an eight-oared shell race, which challenge was also declined. A similar challenge sent recently from the Univ~ prese r884: Univ( every to ro1 cham ofwa agree Fa eral 1 the c shell tain 1 Pr. D< D< secti1 D' n, stuc1 D1 only D1 hors( D~ a w1~ D~ D, bene D D with D D 0 A Indi perh se 11 1 cons T. the 1

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 61 University of Pennsylvania to Harvard University (the present cha1npions) for an eight-oared shell race 111 I 884, having a:lso been declined, the Boat Club of the University of Pennsylvania het:eby challenges any and every of the aforetnentioned Colleges and Universities to row an eight-oared sLell race with coxswains for the championship of A1nerican colleges : over any distance of water and at such titne and place as may be n1utually agreed upon. F~iiing to receive an affinnative answer tC? thi~ gen- eral challenge within sixty days, we propose to claim the chan1pionship of An1erican colleges in eight-oare~ shell rowing, and will call upon public opinion to sus- tain us in this position. FRED. F. HALLOWELL, Sec'y Regatta Co1n. Univ. of Penna. PHILADELPHIA, January 9, I 884. DON'T. DON'T read the following. Do n't buy coal if your neighbor has any. Do n't forget to pay your subscription. Do n't buy 1natches if a freshtnan roon1s section. 1n the Don't i1nagine this is meant to be funny. Do n't pole toq hard (down town) ; you n1ight stuck. get Don't think the U. C. A. association is dead; it is only taking a prolonged sleep. Do n't s1nile every time a professor speaks of a horse. HORATII CARM1NUM. I-5· ' GENTLE '.\1ARY, prithee tell, What slender youth, bedecked with roses, In some far, sequestered dell, His passion-dreams to you discloses? Tell for whom, so modest-fair, You daily twine your sunny hair. Alas! how oft will he deplore The broken vows, and ah! how vainly 'Whelmed in Love's cleep sea, give o'er His love-lit eyes to tears unmanly? vVho enjoys your golden smile Too credulously for awhile? You, always heart-free, always kind, He hopes to love and woo forever; Knowing not the false, false wind That wafts him on and soon will sever His fond heart from yours away, And make his bark the billows' prey. Unhappy they on whom you shine, Unknowing all your witching art; But I with love have ceased to pine, And do not own a shipwrecked heart. -:.Yly drenched garments deck the fane Of the great God who rules the main. A. B. BISHOP. LOCALS. ABUNDANCE of snow. Coasting is the chief sport. The new catalogue is out. De Baun, '86, has left college. \\Vhy don't ye sophomores enlist? Don't regret that the Shakespearian club is defunct; a wise Providence guideth all things. Don't pony when the prof. is looking. The report that T. C. Gawler had left college was : unfounded. Do n't display your artistic skill on chairs benches. I and 1 I I Now is the tin1e pre1naturely on the with pain. when the student doth sit down section steps to rise slowly and Do n'f\fail to contest for THE CoNCORDIENSIS prizes. Don't think the college authorities are in league : We would like to remind our subscribers that the with surgeons down town. \ $r.so would be very acceptable. \Do unto others as Don't leave your windows and doors open. Don't forget to 1nake ·a ten-spot at every 1neal. Oh, do n't, do n't. ' you would have others do unto you.\ A n1agazine writer asks : \ How shaH we utilize the Indians?\ 'This is a difficult question to answer, but perhaps the best plan would be to petrify the1n and I se 11 then1 for cigar store signs. T'his idea is worthy of · consideration, anyhow .-Norristrnon Herald. The turn of the \tied \-starting horneward after the wedding trip.-Exchange. Prof. Hollis, Knight of the Woolen Garter, has just been united in the bonds of 1natri1nony. A long life and much happiness to the professor. '84 has not got any cheek. They n1ove a con1Init- tee of fifteen be appointed to 1nake arrangements for a fair, and that eight of that con1mittee be fro1n their class. Of course the n1otion was lost and we are inclined to think that the fair was lost with it. At a n1eeting of the faculty, held Jan. I oth, it was resolved : \That all students not in full standing at

62 THE CONCORDlENSIS. I the end of the present term, should forfeit their schol- . arship.'' This gives a very short time to n1ake up back ' studies, and in n1any cases i_t will be i1npossible to do so. our ovetcoats, with the mercury at I o below zero. We hope the professor will be n1uch benefitted by his trip and return to us at the appointed titne. During his A new chapter of the iP . .J. ('\1. fraternity has recent- ly been opened at Union. This fraternity is largely established an1ong the colleges of the West and South, and in all numbers so1nething above forty-five chapters. The chapter at Union contains eleven n1en ancl is the beta chapter of the state. ~ absence the classes in 1nodern languages will not recite. Even up to the last n1on1ent there was a lingering hope that something unforseen would interfere with the resignation of Prof. Alexander, but it was not so, and we are compelled to announce that he has-accept- ed his call. He entered upon his new duties at the beginning of the year. The following are the subjects for essays due Jan. z8th: Seniors.-An·alyze the Total Pleasure of an Evening Party. Juniors.-Benefits and Evils of Open- ing Art Collections and Libraries to the Public on Sundays. Sophomores.-Advantages and Disadvan- tages of Popularity. We have not yet heard of any steps having been taken toward the organization of the base ball nine. This in1portant step should not he. long delayed; the I men should be selected and ordered to the gy1n as soon ·as possible. Let the directors see that this is done, rem bering that \ practice n1akes perfect.\ The sophomores have commenced Clark's ,Ele1nents of the English Language with Tutor Anable, who is taking the classes of Prof. Alexander. The text book formerly in ~se was that of J. H. Giln1ore. It is pur- posed, however, to use the two in connection with each other, in the hope of attaining better results. Prof. Alexander returned to this city Jan. r4tl1, to preside at a meeting of his late congregation, held for the purpose of electing a new pastor. Mr. Alexander was installed as pastor of the University Place Presby- terian Church ·Of New York city, on Ja_n. 8th. The installation sennon was preached by the Rev. Dr. Dar- ling of Schenectady. It is with sorrow that the almnni will learn of the death of \Colonel '' Pickett, who has been overseer of the college grounds for nearly twenty-five years, and has gained a place in every heart by his genial manners. We left hin1 before the holiday vacation in apparently perfect health, and returned to find that he had suddenly passed away. As stated in our last issue, Prof. \V ells has sailed for the Bahamas, and is probably now enjoying the de- light~ of a tropical climate, while we are shivering in . The freshmen are romning about the colleges with their military caps and brass buttoned coats and give the institution quite a 1nillitary air. They are now well advanced in the prin1itive tactics and have com- lnenced to use the accoutrements of war.. We also see by the bulletin that drill hours are set apart. for the upper classn1en, but according to the latest infonnation very few have consented to don the garb of the soldier. We understand that· the joint debate between the Adelphic and Philomathean literary societies is not to take place, at least not. on the day appointed. The debate was appointed for Friday, Jan. 19th, but for sorne unexplained reason the Philotnatheans say they cannot be ready on that day. The Adelphics, on the other hand, say that they will not debate at all unless on the day appointed. Thus the matter stands at present. We trust, however, that s_ome new date will be agreed upon, and that the debate will not be an entire fizzle. Conditions governing the literary pnzes g1ven by THE CONCORDIENSIS : (I) Every article rnust be written on foolscap paper, one side only, and be signed by some z:oJn de plttme. ( 2) The articles shall be subtnitted on or before the I sth day of February, I 884, accompai1ied by an envelope inscribed with the nonz de plu;ne of the writer, and containing within, his proper nmne. (3) No \'l articles 1nust exceed four thousand words in length, or contain less than two thousand words. ( 4) The prizes shall not be given unless at least three articles be submitted in competition for each pnze. ( 5) THE CoNe< )RDIEN~rs shall have the right to pub- lish any and all articles sub1nitted. On Jan. r 6th a co1n1nittee consisting of ~is hops Huntington. and Coxe, Drs. Battershall and Parker, and Mr. :Nlc Donald. called on President Potter and offered hin1, on behalf of the trustees of Hobart Col- lege, tl1e presidency of that institution. Tl1e cotnmit- tee urged Dr. Potter to accept this position and, as inducements, n1entioned the financial prosperity ·of I-Io bart, its excellent site, its pron1ising prospects and the desire of the Episcopal Church to support it under Dr. Potter's ad1ninistration. President Potter thanked · ·I the co1ntnittee for their offer and said he would take it. ' into consideration. Dr. Potter will consult with his frien deci< be aj It who, visit< is de n1igr figur .. a wi] that to tb ance com: by l oil \' puri1 \Bi1 wou] to c< he ' we ~ stud on n dent a lui our: a n1:: he c [C ,, - . rece1 . '4 ~ut · :_ '' 5 as-a ~ ' also ,_·lead - '~5 Stoc ' . 5 - in tl - sidel . '5 Prof 1-Iig l ·' 5

THE CONCORDIENSIS. friends in this country and Europe before taking any mal School at Albany. (The institution, under his decided action, but the probabilities are the offer will direction, has had great success, as was shown by the be accepted. ' recent re-union of its graduates. The school is soon It is our painful duty to chronicle the death of one ' to be relnoved into a handsotne new building in the who, for many years has been a regular and tireless , west end of Albany·) visitor to the college buildings. \Billy the oil man,\ is dead. He was an interesting subject-in oil, we n1ight say with the art critics-one who would have 1 figured well in the novels of Charles Dickens. He had .··a will which kept hin1 always above circu1nstances, so that no 1natter how n1any un~uccessful visits were made to the college buildings, when the ti1ne for his appear- ance can1e he was sure to \bob up serenely.\ His com1nand of forcible English was only to be equalled by his use of it, and the man who would not buy his , ) oil would be called names which were far ahead of the L '54· Rev. Dr. Van Hon1e, for some years pastor of the Race street Reformed church, in Philadelphia, has sold the church property and buHt an elegant brick structure further uptown. Dr. Van Horne has been president of the Synod of the Reformed church of A1nerica,_ and has published several works of an inter- esting religious character. '6z. Elliot 'T. Slocum is at present residing in De- troit, Mich. He has been a tneml)er of the legislature of that State. puritanical names of the tin1e of Cro1nwell ; and then \Billy sorry, probably, for his misuse of the language, would offer up a fervent petition, asking for a change to co1ne over the stony heart of the student, and that he would buy oil. But though he had his faults, as we all have, he, too, had his good qualities. Many students can thank \Billy'' for enlightenn1ent thrown on nun1erous hard and knotty subjects. Many a stu- dent has thanked him for his appearance which caused a lull in the oil exchange. Many-, but we forbear, our space will not pern1it. Suffice it to say, \he was a n1an, and above all else he was a n1an.\ Whence '63. Charles E. Sn1ith is the editor of the Philadel- i plzia Press. The paper under his charge has become an equal and rival of the best n1etropolitan journals. '66. 1). B. 'Tower is a prorninent lawyer at Boston and is still a bachelor; which is more than can be said of n1ost of his class.J i '66. Rev. Geo: Alexander has severed his connec- tion with the college as Professor of Logic and Rhet- , oric and taken charge of the University Place church ' in New York. he came and whither he hath gone; we know not. PERSONALS. i , [Communications concerning any of the alumni will be gladly ~~ceived and inserted in these columns.] j - '46. Henry R. Pierson has been dangerously ill / ~ut is,.,recovering. :_ , '56. M. R. Vedfier has a large practice in New York as-a physician. He is a brother of Dr. A. M. Vedder, also a graduate of Union, who was for n1any years the ,_-le-ading physician of our city. .-\ - , ~57. Chester Averill died lately at his residence In 1 Stockbridge, Mass. ! I '5 '7. Addison A. Hosn1er, after an honorable record · 1 - in the war, settled in Washington, where he still re- l sides. He is engaged as a government attorney. I · '58. Henry L. Harter has been appointed to the I Professorship of Natural Philosophy at the Albany 1-Iigh Scho6l. l .jo ·'58. E. P. Waterbury is principal of the State Nor- · '73· Jan1es L. Veeder is practicing law at Fonda, N.Y. '74· Geo. F. Beakley has lately become editor of the Fulton County Democrat. '8o. A. H. Dougherty~ the artist, is about to return fron1 Paris. While there h_e has sold fourteen pictures to French parties at An1er:ican prices. '8r. \V. J. Hayes celebtated, as an athlete while at college, is now city editor .of the Alba11y Express, '82. J.]. Drowne, now with the Agnes Villa con1bi- nation, has under consideration .an offer to support Ethel Tucker, a talented and rising young Western actress. '82. Dickinson has been appointed to a clerkship in the State Senate of New York. '8z. Ford is pastor of a flourishi11g Presbyterian church in Washington county. '83. C. E. Franklin is on the staff of the· Albany Evening Times. '85. Richards has returned to C'ollege.

.. .. 64 THE CONCORDIENSIS. - ------ -- -- -- ------ ----- ===:::.:...:::.::==:::=:.::==========:::;=-===-..:..-__.:_~:::=:.::=========================== WHAT HAPPENE~H IN THE COLLEGE WORLD. HARVARD.·-· rrhe Advocate, in an editorial, com- plains of the great an1ount of work required at that institution, as follows : \Although 1nuch study- ing was done during the recess, it was largely on back work. It does seen1 itnpossible for any one to keep up with his work. Many are at length coming to see that too much is atte1npted at Harvard, that soon a radical change tnust be n1ade. We have too n1any different societies, too 1nany different athletic organiM zations to allow real good work to be done in any.\ The late Prof. Sophocles bequeathed his library to the college. UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA.-The Magazine says that at the convention of the Intercollegiate Press Association the withdrawal of the Vassar Miscellany was reported a1nid the sobs of the delegates. Preparations are being made for a class regatta to take place on the last Saturday in ApriL V ASSAR.-The Miscellany takes great interest in giv- ing account of all the marriages. which take place among its alumnce. PRINCETON.-The requirements for admission have been raised.-It is probable that no boat crew will be organized this year. LAFAYE1TE.-rfhe :fournal expects to see a good ball nine on the can1pus this year . WAKE FoREST CoLLEGE.-The Student in its last ! issue contained spicy editorials and interesting essays. CLIPPINGS. RONDO DU DODO. DUDE, disappear! From out New York · Betake thy way; and like the stork, Fold up thy leg-s beneath thy wing;_ Pack up thy \bell which does not ring. Migrate, make tracks, light out, gawk ! And, Dude, before thou goest, walk. Unto some tailor's. Bid him chalk A longer coat for thee. Then, thing, Do disappear. If our desires thou dost not balk, Our tears t1pon thy catafalque vVe '11 shed, and then we '11 sing: \On earth they worked him with a string.\ All this, oh Dude, to thee we '11 squawk, Dude, disappear! -Acta. \Can love die?\ inquired a poetess, in a recently published poen1. It cannot, though it gets dreadfully adjourned occasionally. Two newspaper men in Paris had a due1 the other day and one got a blade between his ribs and had it broken off in there. He went, howeve.r, at five o'clock, to his editorial chair in the Evenernent as usual. Editors can't die until after \we have gone to press,\ you know. \ L t \ . d tl ..,. S e 1ne see, sm 1e young n1an aturday eve- ning as he was g,oing ho1ne fro1n his work ; \ n1y wages is $6. I ken get a horse and buggy to-morrow and take n1y girl out ridin' for $4. That ]eaves $ 2 • WILLIAMS.-The sophornores are required to write I ken get along with $r ·5o for spendin' 1 noney and theses upon subjects conn.ected with their study of will have fifty cents left to give mother for board. philology. I'll go. The base ball battery practice daily in the gyn1. A mora] poetess had begun a poen1 in uncoinpron 1 - The Gul was issued about the tenth of January. ising blank verse on the degeneracy of rnan : \ God We are curious to learn the result of the investiga- lnade man in his own ilnage, but he-'' and here she tion set on foot by the editors of the Atlzenaeztm, in . 1 d . . 1 .c h' h h d' 1 . 11 was compelled t0 leave It. A degenerate one came regard to t 1at e 1tona · 10r w 1c t ey . 1sc mm a . . . • . . . _ • 111 and took the hberty of helping her forward a little · respons 1 b 1 hty. The ed1tonal reflected severely on the , \ W ld b bl h . - d · . . . ou · pro a y ave re1nmne so but she-\ junior class and charges them with the rowdyism which I L .-J 0 . ' ._ 'd C . h . - 01Zu01Z iJOCZety. took place at Pres1 ent arter's reception tot e senior class. \ No,\ said the young man to the ticket-seller, \ I On January 16th, while coasting, Nathan Gest of; don't want an end seat, I want one in the 1niddle of the senior class, was instantly killed. He was orator the row. I usually go out two or three times during of his class and stood high in scholarship. 1 the performance, and always between the acts, and half the pleasure I get at the theatre is the sensation It is understood that the girls have adopted the fol- lowing as their 1notto for leap year : \ If you see what you want, ask for.j.t.\-- 7exas Sijtt'ngs. I n1ake in passing in and out, you know. No, no; no end seat for me ; a fellow might go out and co1ne : in a dozen times, and nobody would notice him.'~­ Boston Transcrtpt. .. the i:hro war< . g1ve the pr.o:f hav< SIOn B of! -con: of a a pc: T Pro: br01 lega I: facL pos I fact VICE as 8 fest Jud ulty fac1. p and pot: fore: An Wi1 Ho pre the 1 Pot Un upc Po1 ver of 1 J

.. 11 THE CONCORDIENSIS. Albany Law School. the State, became an additional member of the faculty, _ ··------ being professor of\ The Law of Real Property.\ 'HISTORY OF THE ALBANY LAW SCHOOL. In 1875, Hon. Ira Harris, who had been connected CHAPTER· n. 1 with the school fro1n the time of its organization, died. IN i869 the school met a great loss i~ the death ?f i Prof. Harris was born at Charleston, Montgomery Co., · A1nos Dean. He took a very active Interest 1n j N.Y., on the.3rst of May, r8oz. He graduated fro1n the organization of the school, and it was largely 1 Union College in the class of I 824; studied law at I -through his efforts that it was pushed so rapidly for- ! Albany, and there commenced to practice. He rapid- ward. For seventeen years his best endeavors were I ly rose to a position of e1ninence in the profession, and given for the prosperity of the school, and he died in : in I 844 becmne a member of the Legislature. In the harness, respected and beloved by his associate j r84 7 he bec~1ne a Justice of the Supreme Court, professors and the many gradua~es of the school who 1 which position he held until I 86o. He was a rnen1ber have been enabled to achieve success in their profes- of the Constitutional conventions of r 845 and I 86 7. sions largely through his instru1nentality. 1 In 1862 he was elected to the U. S. Senate, ·which Besides his legal education, Prof. Dean was a rnan ! position he held for six years. of great literary attain1nents. He was an author of Prof. Harris was a man of great legal ability, and -considerable note and hi'l works display literary rnerit was one of the most conscientious and able jurists. of a high order. His \Hist_ory of Civilization\. forms I During his varied political career he was always faith- a part of every complete library. i ful to his duties as a professor, and a clear expounder The vacancy i:g. the faculty, caused by the death of ! of the principles of Practice, Pleading and Evidence. Prof. Dean, ·was filled by Isaac Edwards, LL.D., who ; The first course of lectu~~es was delivered in a large brought to the position personal qualifications and ; hall in a building which forn1erly stood where the new legal ability of the highest order. postoffice and federal building now stands, at the foot In r 856 Atnasa McCoy, A.M., was added to the : of State street on Broadway. The next two years the faculty as professor of rhetoric and oratory, which : lectures were delivered in the Cooper building, which position he retained for several years. fonnerly stood on the corner of State and Green In r87o Ron. An1asa J. Parker retired fron1 the ·.streets. In 1854 the south wing of the Medical Col- faculty at the close of twenty years of continuous ser- j lege was erected for its use, where it continued until vice. He continued his connection with the school Noven1ber r879. as a me1nber of tlte board of trustees and still mani- Fora longtilne these accon11nodations had been found fests a lively interest in the welfare of the school. inadequate, and in r8 79 the first 1nove was 1nade to Judge Parker is the only member of the original fac- obtain better quarters, when an opening presented ulty who still survives. He was succeeded in the itself in the sharpe of th~ Unitarian church on State faculty by Hon. Matthew H~le. street above Swan. After great effort on the part of At this time the school flourished to such an extent Thomas vV. Olcott, the church edifice was purchased and had been so su~cessful that students began to and transformed into a school house. On the evening pour in from every quarter of the Union, and even of Noven1ber 1oth, r879, the edifice was dedicated to foreign countries began to send their representatives. its new purposes. At the public exercises attending An addition to the faculty was demanded, and Hon. this event Hon. W. L. Learned presided, snpported by William F. Allen, late of the Court of Appeals, and Hon. An1asa J. Parker and Sa1nuel Hand. An histori- Hon. Willian1 L. Learned, now a Justice of the Su- cal address was made by Hon. A. J. Parker, in closing prerne Court for this depart1nent, became members of 1 which, referring to the lack of roorn in the old build- 1 the faculty. , ing and its splendid acoustic qualities, he said: \It is In r 8 7 3, chiefly through .the efforts of Eliphalet N ott ; f~rtunate that these advantages. are secured in obtaining Potter, LL.D., the University of Albany united with I this spacious building, so well adapted to your use. Let Unio~~ College to ~?nn Union University. Although j it be dedicated with all due ceren1ony to its future upon the union o(the several departlnents President : purposes, second only in sacredness of character to Potter of Union College becan1e president of the Uni- : that for which it has heretofore been used. Reminded versity, Hon. Tho1nas \V. Olcott remained president \ by the impressive and undying 1naxi1ns inscribed on of the Law School. ; your walls, that you are here to learn. to follow irnplic- In 1874 Hon. John T. Hoffman, ex-Governor of j itly the rules of justice, truth and honor, and remen1- ' •.;. ' ;~' ··' : .. ·;· j • ~ ' '

66 THE CONCORDIENSIS. bering the old Roman :tnotto, \'.7ustitia virltt!em II' regina,'' that Justice is the queen of the virtues, who will dare say that this te1np:Le is not consecrated to a sacred use ? '' Sa1nuel Hand made an address eulogizi11g W. F. Allen and Isaac Edwards; and C. E. Stnith, editor of the Albany Evening yournal, an address in which he characterized Amos Dean as the n1aster professor and Ira Harris as the n.1aster judge. In I 8 7 8 the faculty was further enlarged by the election of President Potter as lecturer on the \Feu- dal System,\ Dr. Henry Coppee on \ International I Law,\ Hon. H. E. Sickles on ''Evidence,\ and Chas. T. F. Spoor on \ Practice and Pleading at Common Law and Under the Code.\ In March, I 8 79, the school received a severe blow in the death of Prof. Isaac Ed wards. He was admired ' and loved by all who came in contact with hiln, not alone for his great learning, but because of his personal regard for the students under his charge. He had the faculty of imparting to the students in a ren1arkable degree a knowledge of the law in which he was himself ~ so well versed. Isaac Edwards wrote several legal works of great n1erit, all of which are noted for lucidity of thought, conciseness of language, and comprehensiveness of scope. Among then1 the most valuable are : Edwards \ on Bills and Protnissory Notes, and Edwards on Bail- I ! ments. REAL PROPERTY. THE course of instruction on Real Property has · been completed, certainly to the satisfaction of the students. Prof. McCall's mode of instruction is, by n1eans of the work which he has prepared on this subject, the recitation of the student, and explanation. I McCall on Real Property is a work which presents a subject which has been discussed by the best of 1 judicial writers for 1nore than four hundred years. Civilization, in its progress, has changed the views of every generation of tnen upon this subject as well as upon all others; and the student of to-day who un- dertakes to acquire a thorough knowledge of ~he principles of law governing the subject, from the 1nass of learning and decisions of bygone ages, as 1nodified by the statutes of late years, finds himself in a position itnpossible to obtain that result. Many of the modern treatises on this subject are so cumbersome as to be almost useless to the student, and contain much that 1nay mislead him. The work of Prof. McCall presents the subject as it is at the pvesent thne, freed from much that has changed and passed away, and in a forn1 to be easily retained by the student. Prof. McCall has the thanks of the students for the manner in which he has pre- ~ sented the subject and the kindly interest which he has n1anifested in the students. REOBGANIZATION OF THE CLUBS. AT the be_ginning of the new term, the men:bers of the Sickels Club resolved to reorganize and sustain it for the ensuing tenn. At a tneeting held for that purpose, E. B. Sin1onds acting as chairn1an, the constitution was an1ended and the following officers elected : Presiding Justice, Wesley :Gould ; Associate Justices, D. J. O'Sullivan, R. B. Stearns ; County Clerk and Treasurer, J. S. Sitterly ; Sheriff, ?' Executive Coinmittee, Messrs. Tripp, Etnbody, Bal- lard. The club is now in good working order and should be well sustained, as 1nuch benefit may be derived fron1 the opportunities it offers to learn what otherwise would have to be gleaned from actual practice. The Learned Club has also been reorganized as follows: President, P. R. Barnes; Vice-President, J. L. Pratt; Secretary, N. S. En1body. The club has semi-weekly 1neetings-one to quiz on Prof. Smith's lectures, and the other for general review. ORGANIZATION OF THE McCALL CLUB. On the I·zth of Decen1ber the students met to forn1 a Real Estate Club in honor of Prof. McCall. The 1neeting was organized with F. E. Smith as chairman and J. B. Moffatt as secretary. After considerable dis- cussion and an exciting canvass the following officers were elected : President, J. A. Colgan ; First Vice- President, W. F. McNan1ara j Second Vice-President 1 G. M. Boynton ; Secretary and Treasurer, J. .B. Moffatt. THE correct idea of marriage, according to Scotch law, was never better stated than in the follow- ing language of a learned Scotch judge : \Marriage being entirely a personal, consensual contract, it n1ay be thoug~t that the lex !oct' must be resorted to in expounding every question that rises relative to it. But, it will be observed; that marriage is a contract suz' generis, and differing in some respects from all other contracts; so that the rules of law which are applicable in expounding and enforcing other contracts may not apply to this. \The contract of marriage is the most in1portant of all 1 who: \ foun on· con1 ansi the. 1nat1 hav( \ borr duti rela· pen '' civil it St sho1 111Ct part T resc ~ it is f the Ne1 I tun intE I rin1 loo: ' all rna hin ' .. 111 abl un] the

THE CONCORDIENSIS. all human transactions. It is the very basis of the whole fabric of civilized society. \ The status of rnarriage is juris gentium, and the foundation of it, like that of a)l other contracts, rest on the consent of parties; but it differs fro1n other contracts in this : that the rights, obligations or duties arising fro1n it are not left entirely to be regulated by the agree1nent of parties, but are, to a certain extent, 1natters of n1unicipal regulation, over which the parties have no control by any declaration of their will. \ It confers the status of legitilnacy on children born in. wedlock, and with all the consequential rights, duties and priv~leges thence arising ; it gives rise to the relations of consanguinity and affinity; in short, it pervades the whole systen1 of civil society. '' Unlike other contracts, it cannot, in general, an1ong civilized nations, be dissolved by mutual consent; and it subsists in fuil force, even although one of the parties should be forever rendered incapable, as in the case of incurable insanity, or the like, f~o1n perforn1ing his part of the 1nutual contract.\-Irz'sh La'\w. 'Tz'mes. Many of the students attended the 1neeting of the State Bar Association recently held in this city, and greatly enjoyed the progran1. An1ong other literary exercises was the reading of an exhaustive essay on a subject similar to that for which the Potter prize is to be awarded. Fron1 the present outlook, there will be little con1petition for the Potter prize, as the subject is one which can best be treated by those who have had actual experience in the practice of the law, and few of then1 could treat it successfully. Albany Medical College. TENDENCIES. '' NOTHING distinguishes great men from those inferior 1110re than their always knowing (whether in art or life) the way things are gc< 1g. \- J Ruskin. In oui· n1edical studies we are called upon to dis- tinguish two classes of disease- ( 1) functional and ( 2) organic. The first consists in a perverted action ; the second in a change of structure. It will help us in aU things to 111ark this difference. BRIEFS. , . . The study of rnorbid anatomy has been pushed very' THE. studei:t.s returned fron1 the h'~hday vacat:o~~ • rapidly, but we can hardly clain1 proportionate success w1th snlihng faces and lots of New Year s in the treatn1ent of disease. The young physician resolutions. having a very clear and definite knowledge of the Morse is slowly hut surely recovering his health, and 1nicroscopic appearance of diseased tissues, finds hin1- it is hoped he will soon be with us once again. self often less successful than the old practitioner Prof. Stnith closed his lectures on Partnership on whose acquaintance with such 1natters is exceedingly the 15th, and on the 16th took up the subject of 1 lin1ited. \Vherein, then, lies the difference? People Negotiable Instrun1eqts. say\ experience.\ Experience of what? Experience Prof. Learned is now delivering his course of lee- in seeing morbid processes? What has this taught tures on the ''Trial of Causes;\ and they are very hin1? It has taught him to study disease as a process interesting and profitable. and to look at the tendencies of his patient and the It is ru1nored that the n1anager of the roller skating rink is going to con1.mence an action against S-- for loosening the floor timbers. Several new faces appeared at lecture after the holi- days. The class is always glad to have its size in- creased by the acquisition of such genial 1nen. ' \ Ignorance of the law excuses no man ; not that all men know the law, but because 'tis an excuse every ! rnan will plead, and no man can tell how to confute him. ''-Selden. So1ne of the students have had a varied experience in the matter of boarding places. It is hardly prob- able that they will take a second year in the school, unless a new lot of boarding-houses are opened, as they expect to complete the present list this year. tendencies of the disease. Upon these he builds his prognosis. In other words, he has learned, as Ruskin says, \the way things are going.\ Nor is it in 1nedicine alone that such a habit of thought is of value. It is a law of motion that a body once started will continue to n1ove in the same direc- tion until an opposing or diverting force be brought to bear upon it. And I n1.ay. add that this law holds good of all that has motion, whether the character of its 1notion be physical, n1ental or n1oral. It n1atters little, then, where a thing is, but rather what is the direction of its force; and the philosophy that takes this question of tendencies into account is pre-etninently the practical one, because it is pre- en1inently .the true one. 1-.he ancients, with their theory of a \ perpetual . ~ t ' ! ~ H )'I' . ·' '•' '',1 i ' : i! i~! ii!j 1 ;j t;• l! 'j I' - ·····-~--~- ~-------~- --·~------~--·----~----------~-_____:/!

68 THE CONCORDIENSIS. flux,\ were nearer the truth than some later scientists who attetnpted to start with fixed forms. Thou shalt not worship any \ graven\ ilnage because-you have attempted to produce an abnormality, and the very rain and dew, and sunlight, will dispute you and pull it gradually to pieces. All things, then, having n1otion, we should ain1 to criticise them according to the character of that 1notion. We call the 1nan who has accu1nulated facts learned. Another outstrips him, and we discover that it was his mode of thought (n1ental n1otion) that has given this one the lead. \\Ve are repeatedly finding ourselves mistaken when we criticise fro111 position n1erelv. .I And this habit of judging a thing by its tendencies will serve us a good turn in settling 1nany questions when the arguments pr(} atul con seen1 about equally divided. \ Is the direction of this thing toward that style of developn1:ent at which I an1 ain1ing?\ is a consideration that will often turn the scale. For, in asking this question, you are inquiring into its inherent qualities, which neither thne nor circu1nstances can alter, but which rest upon its actual character and con- stitution; and this fact hold:3 true whether the subject of question be a lecture, a book a conversation, a friendship, or the cut of a pair of ~rowsers. I said that this law of tendencies has a n1oral bear- ing. It has, but this is not a theological article. It is enough to say that in this domain it finds its truest, because also its highest application. w. G. HUBBARD, '~. \7 wE take pleasure in laying a portion of a bill which was recently introducecl into the Assem- bly before our readers. It is : AN ACT TO ESTABLISH TilE ::\IEDICAL FACCLTY OF THE l':'\1\'ERSlTY OF THE STATE OF NE\V YORK, TO RE< ;PLATE THE LICENSING OF l'RACTITIONEES OF PHYSIC .\Nil Sl :R<a•:RV, A~ll TO l'TRTHim RECCLATE THE PRACTICE OF PHYSIC A~lJ Sl'!{<iERY. SECTION I. On or before the first day of June, 1884, the Governor shall appoint the Medical Faculty of the University of the State of New York, to consist of nine (9) members, who shall be authorized practitioners of physic and surgery in this State, but none of whom shall he connected with any med- ical school or college; provided, that in the appointments ma<le the representation of the several systems of medical practice recognized by the incorporated medical societies of this State shall be in the proportion of six, two and one; that is to say, the system having the largest number of licensed practitioners to have six, that having the next largest to have two, and He remaining system to have one representative; and all persons desiring to enter upon the practice of physic and surgery in this State,. after November first, I 884, shall, before doing so, comply with the provisions hereinafter prescribed a:nd obtain the license hereinafter provided. SEC. J. The said medical faculty shall examine all applicants for Hcense to practice physic and surgery in this State. The me1nbers theteof shall meet at least semi-annually, and at such meeti:ngs shall faithfully examine all candidates referred to them for that purpose by the Chancellor .of said University, and each furni-;h hiln a report in writing of his opinion as to the qualifi- cations and merits of each candidate, referring briefly to· the degree of proficiency evinced by the applicant in all the sev- ~ral bra:ncfues in respect of which he was examined; which opinion shall be by him denominated favorable or unfavorable. SEc. 4· Such examination shall be in anatomy, physiology, histology, pathology, theory and practice of mediciHe, ·chemis- try, surgery, obstetrics, materia medica and therapeutics, and such other branches in the several departments of medical science as the said faculty may agree upon, subject to the ap- proval of the Regents of the University. The questions form~ ing such examinations shall be the same for all classes of can- didates offering themselves, with the exceptions of the depart- ments of materia medica and therapeutics, in which branches the questions for each canC!idate shall be prepared by the rep- resentatives in the Board of Examiners, of the system of prac- tice to which such candidate wishes to be licensed. SEC. 6. Any person, on paying twenty-five dollars into the treasury of the University, and on applying to the Chancellor for the aforesaid examination, shall receive an order addressed ~to the aforesaid medical faculty, instructing them to examine the candidates at one of the regular semi-annual examinations, provided that proof satisfactory to the Chance1lor is first given that the candidate is over hventy-one years of age, of good moral character, and has received a diploma issued to him or her, conferring on him or her the degree of doctor of medicine from some legally incorporated medical college held to be in good standing by the said medical faculty. SEc. 7· The Regents of the University, after finding that the members of said faculty participating in the examination have given an unanimous opinion in favor of a candidate, and that such examination has been a satisfactory test of the qualifica- tions of said candidate, shall issue to him or her a license to practice physic or surgery h1 the State of New York, for which license the candidate shall pay to the University the further sum of fifteen dollars. SEC. 8. The moneys paid to the University under the pro- visions of this act shall be appropriated by said Reg€'nts for and shall defray the expenses incurred under the provisions of this act. These are the portions of the bill which most inter- est tnedical students ; and if any student wishes to express his sentiments on it by letter, we will be glad to receive the satne and will trans1nit it to influential parties. We think that if medical students do not like the bill, or any part of it, they should hold class meet- ings, pass appropriate resolutions, and send the sa1ne to the Senate and Asse1nbly, or forever after hold their peace. For our own part, we do not think it right that we shou natic and supp '\Ve: una1 cane rnak facu beli< ests It Coll COUJ stud legi~ and If a thre stu( fair 1na1 higl wot law.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 6g should be required to pay the expenses of the exaini- nation,. because it is for the protection of the people, and we think they should bear the burden. They support the Regents' examinati<:?ns ; why not this one? \\Ve also object to the idea that the examiners 1nust be unani1nous in their opinion as to the fitness of the candidate for license before it can be given. It really rnakes figureheads of eight men1bers of the n1:edical faculty ; and because of the professed disagree1nent in belief of these n1en, is really. jeopardizing the inter- CHARLES ANSON VAN DERVEE:R. THE death is announced of Charles Anson Van Derveer, the oldest child of Dr. and Mrs. Albert Van Derveer, which occurred at the residence of the fatnily on Sunday n1orning, at a quarter before · ro o'clock. The disease was acute peritonitis, and it followed fro1n a severe cold taken the latter part of week before last. What was thought to be a telnpo- rary indisposition developed, about Christn1as, into the · dangerous disorder which has fatally tenninated. The 1 utn1ost that love and 1nedical science could do did not It is a great and standing shan1e to the Medical avail. The certainty of death was seen on Saturday Colleges of this State that they cannot arrange their night, and Dr. Henry Sands, of New York, who was courses of study and requiren1ents for adrnission of 1 preparing to cotne oti. to co-operate with the Albany students, so as to acco1nplish all and ·more than any physicians in attendance, was advisedly infonned by legislation can in the work of protection to the people, telegraph that his e1ninent services would not retard and in elevating the present status of the profession. I the result. 1'he young sufferer was aware of his con- If all colleges, like our own, would require a course of · clition. His solicitude was wholly for the hearts that three years, and our own and the rest den1and that are stricken by his departure. Unselfish in living, he students, on entering, be prepared to pass, and pass a was unselfish in dying, and he did all and said all that fair exan1ination, not only in classics, but iJ;l the pri- could be done or spoken, with faculties unclouded and 1nary branches of 1nedicine, the n1uch wished for with faith and fortitude radiant and resplendent, to higher state of affairs vvould be reached and injustice assuage the sorrow of those dearer to him than life, would be done no 1nan; but if this bill becon1es a and whose grief was n1ore poignant to hin1 than the law, we very 1nuch fear that will not be the case. sting of death itself. Born in Albany, March 30, r 868, ests of the student. _ _ __ _ Charley was a lad of uncomtnon strength and absolute A FEW VERSES. purity of character, of bright,_ acquisitive and engaging n1ind and of n1ost generous and n1anly disposition. He gave perfect pron1ise of a career of eminence in any calling he n1ight have followed. At hotne he was H A, ha! a letter, honor bright, He whispers to himself; As forth the missive clad in white, Is handed from its shelf. What means that cheek of crimson hue? What means that manlier pace r \Vhat Midas-power hath wrought anev.' The semblance of that face? Those graceful lines so neatly penned, The office stamp it bears; To his quick eye a beauty lend, In which no other shares. With ten de( care he breaks the seal, The reading scarce begun; Before his lips the truth reveals, Good Heavens, 'tis a dun! MORAL. Students up on Eagle street, As letters forth you draw From out the basket as it hangs, Beside Jim's open door, Be sure your bills are all paid up, Oh, do not let them run, Lest when you break your mission seal, Yours, too, may be a .dun. W.B.M. I the light and joy of the household. A1nong his play- ' n1ates he was leader by right of conceded courage, generosity, enterprise and judgn1ent. At the Acaden1y he was a faithful, ambitious, earnest student. 1 he re- lations in which he stood to the Sunday-school of the First Presbyterian Church were exe1nplary in every respect, and his keen· itltelligence realized, while his young and loving heart gladly received spiritual truth. His was the childlike faith and his the death of the righteous. Taken from the evil to con1e, he leaves a men1ory fragrant with deeds of affection, disinterest- edness and efficient help to others.-Arg·us, December JI, I88J. IT .has been our sad duty to chronic~e. three deaths 1n as many of the Professor's farnthes stnce last August-as, the beloved Prof. Mosher, Prof. Town- send's 1nother, and Prof. Ward's wife ; and it is with feelings of great sorrow that we now try to n1ake so1ne fitting notice .of the death of Prof. Van Derveer's oldest child and son, Charley. By the students return- I' l' , • I :\ t 'l I · J jl '( ,, f •' '' ' I' ~ .( '\. '· ·I I ' ~~ ~ • ! ' ·, :g, ·.: 'I ''•I : '1 ~'I I , !, ~ ~ l • ~ f .

THE CONCORDIENSIS. ------~- ----------- ing from the holiday recess, the sad news were received remarkable \ living skeleton,\ and gives an account of with the greatest surprise and sorrow ; and those that the manner in which his body became the property of knew young Van Derveer intin1ately, exclaimed: \It the college. But this account omits to n1ention the can hardly be possible, for when we went away he was name of the n1an ,to whom the credit is due for pre- all right.\ But as the truth settled its firm conviction serving this body in such a 1:nanner that not only now, . upon us, our hearts went out to the Professor and his but for years heFeafter, it 1nay be seen \with the skin farnily in their deep affliction. Those that knew Charlie stretched over his bony skeleton as he appeared for Van Derveer personally are full aware of the loss that years previous to his death.\ It is ·right and proper will be felt not only by his relatives, but also by his that the students should know that Dr. John Swin- acquainta:nces and friends. His character was fast : burne, at that ti1ne Prosector of the college, took developing, ancl soon he would be in college and then 1 charge of the body of Edson and occupied several I out into the workJ, and, perhaps, to have worked with 1 rnonths in its preparation. The viscera were first re- and succeeded his father. But it was not to be ; . moved and the body soaked in a preservative solution and, in closing, it is hardly necessary for us to repeat 1 until thoroughly pickled. The cavities were then that the students of the Albany Medical College i filled with n1elted resin, and the specimen when thor- ' heartily sympathize with the Professor and his family i oughly dried was carefully varnished. Numerous in this_ great bereavement. ! leech bites in the sides are as plainly discernible to- day as they were at the time he died. Respectfully, .S ERIOUS trouble was occa.sioned in the adminis- R c p M D USSEI, • ARIS, • . • · tration of the college last August as to who should succeed to the duties of the late Prof. Mosher. There was hardly a month preceding the opening of the college in September, too short a tin1e, to find a 1nan to fill the vacancy suitably and permanently; and ' so Professors Van D_erveer and Ward were appointed ' to lecture,pro tem, on Theory and Practice, and Prof. Bigelow to conduct the medical clinics, which were and are being done to the credit of the institution and satisfaction of the students. But that there will be a change before next fall is. expected by all, for it is too much to ask of any one to do double work, no 1natter how well that work is executed; and that the students should be interested in this change is but natural. Who will be the \man \ to fill the \vacancy\ we do not know ; but we feel certain that the Trustees, if they cannot find the right on~near-by, will go outside of the college, Albany, or even the State ot New York, if necessary, until he is found; and when the session of 1884-'85 opens; we expect to greet one ~ fully qualified to rank with our present corps of profes- sors. AT a n1eeting of the graduating class, Jan. 13th, it was decided to have Mr. Abbott take the class pic- tures and Mr. Quayle to engrave the invitations, which are to be plain script with names of class officers and executive comtnittee, and extra card containing nmnes of entire class. The exercises should be held on March 5th, but owing to the faculty being unable to ...... obtain Music Hall, it will probably occur on the fol- lowing evening. Meeting then adjourned. LOCALS. WE have two\ dizzy\ 1nashers in college; made ~ so recently. How? As it is not a long story, I will tell you. Friday, Dec. 14, you will recollect, was a, cold, blustery day. Well, while hurrying along one of our crowded thoroughfares I was surprised to find the 'above individuals \on duty.\ I met the1n later; a pleasing smile o'erspread their phizzes, which was presently transfonned into a grin (a very broad one, too). I was an1used, and determined to watch ALBANY, Jan. I 6, I 884. 7 o tlte Editor of the Concordie1tsis : i for further developn1ents. I had not long to wait, however, for they crossed the street and with 1nilitary deportn1ent (their n1assive fur hats sitting jauntily upon their heads), 1narchecl dire(:tly in behind two of Al- bany's fair daughters. Now do not understand n1e that our city girls make a practice of what I will tell DEAR SIR.-In the Decen1ber number of your paper I notice, in . connection with so1ne remarks on Prof. Hailes' lectures, a quotation fro1n the annual address to the students by Prof. Van Derveer. The latter, in speaking of the various interesting preparations in the 1nuseu1n of the Albany Medical College, describes the ! you, or that on the other hand our worthy colleagues were deserving of the shot received. :Nevertheless, • --- one I horri sche1 with purd wher East an ( one . lnCOJ Wild clotl . pmg ave \gir \ha nee< hav( dizz D nan, etbo in tr a sta ex all J88t, A ~lrs tain: som to fi in tl ( aro anc wit' sitt rid for do otl: hm no ha' wi1 Tl pn . en H·

• THE CONCORDIENSIS. one of the girls turned deliberately around and (the horrid thing) told then1 that it would be an admirable sche1ne to \hock \ those two beautiful hats, together with their canes and gloves, and with the proceeds purchase an overcoat. I looked in the direction of · where the shot had struck, expecting to see ~ssiply East-· ns, \ Oscar Wilde,\ a \ Johnson surtout,\ or an overcoat-· some ancient contrivance, or perhaps one a little the worse for wear. But tny sunnises were incorrect (I might have known it, too), for the \Oscar Wilde \ is in Brooklyn, the \ surtout\ laid away in a clothes-press, being perfu.1ned for the winter's can1- paign. But to return to n1y subject. It took me but a very few seconds to conceive the full tneaning of the \girl's\ re1narks, viz. : the contrast between the fur \ hats and gloves \ and \ sumn1er under coat.\ It is needless to state, in conclusion, that \Albany girls\ have greatly depreciated in the estimation of \ ye dizzy mashers.\ DARBY, '86. Detectives Dwyer and Sheridan yesterday arrested Mrs. Bren- nan, of No. 64 Canal street, on the charge of stealing the pe>ck- etbook of Dr. H. Holliday. The doctor is attending a woman in the same house, and inadvertently left his wallet lying upon a stand from which it was taken. The prisoner was partially examined and sent to jail.-P1\'ess and J(nickerbocker, 'Jarl, 8, !884. ROBBED IN A SICK ROO:'IL ALBANY, Jan. 7.-Dr. Hamilton Holliday, while attending ~lrs. Atkins, of this city, yesterday, laid his pocketbook con- taining $1,300 on a table in the sick room. He had been gone some time before he missed it and was surprised upon his return i to find that no one had seen it. A Mrs. Brennan, who resides in the house, was arrested on suspicion.-.~.V. Y. World, yan. 8. Courtesy in lectures should be practiced in handinb around specimens 1nore than, it seems to us, is done, and not so 1nuch self shown. \iVe think all will agree with us that each one should see and pass to the one sitting next to him, and not to the nearest place to get rid of it above or below. These specimens are bought for all, and all could see and be satisfied if each would do his part to accomplish this end. Prof. Tucker announced to the graduating class, the other morning, that the ''Theses '' were required to be handed in by Feb. 1st, and the graduation fee would not be required until Feb. r 5th. Each Thesis should have about 20 to 2 5 pages, and properly bound with paper cover, and extra page containing subject of Thesis and name of writer in full, etc., etc. Prof. Townsend has been seriously ill with typhoid pneumonia, but we are glad to state that he is recov- ering; he will be out of town while recuperating. Dr. Hun will lecture on Physiology during his absence. It was suggested by a student of wonderful foresight ,, rfhat in consideration that the bill now pending be- fore the Legislature relating to n1edical students' exaln- inations before State Board was likely to be passed this spring, the faculty ought to pass the whole· class before the bi H takes effect. 1,he amphitheatre .at St. Peter's Hospital is finishe i, and a very good one it is, capable of seating fron1 7 5 to 100. Prof. Bigelow will hold a few dinics there during the two or three weeks following, the first hav- ing been held 'V ednesday, Jan. gth. The editors wish to state that their Freshn1an repre- sentative does not intend to run opposition to J -h-s-n, L-nu-w, or any other of the college dudes, but only that he sometimes wishes to wear bouquets on sunny days. It is rurnored that J -h-s-n, R-d-r and :Br-wn, '86, are still developing their 1nashing propensities, and that son1etit11es, when skating at the Park, they are not as agreeable to the \dear girls \ as they would like. Our special reporter, J-tn, reports that Walker, '84, and Wheeler, '84, gave an exhibition of the powers in the art of c;neco-Ron1an wrestling, Jan. 7, and that the result was unfavorable to Walker. '85 n1en were greatly pleased when Prof. Bigelow announced that he had passed all of then1 at his De- cember exa1nination. They hope that he will do as well by then1 this n1onth. Prof. Perkins' lectures, although always interesting, have been rnore so of late, and the co1nplicated study of Organic Chen1istry is n1ade plain to us in his graphic n1anner of delivery. Prof. Bigelow, Jan. g, said that \sto1nach-ache was often caused by wind on the ston1ach, and that pro- fessors are liable to that co1nplaint.\ Prof. rfucker has been indisposed with a severe cold and therefore not able to lecture. vVe shall be glad to see hi1n back again soon. Dr. S., looking at fen1ale subject lying on table- ,, Is it Hernia or Hydrocele?\ Fresl11nen laugh. Exit the Dr. Will there be any class suppers this year? vVill the custon1 die out with the class who started it? Who speaks first ? Mr. C., deliberately looking at case before him- '' Worst one of the season, Prof.\ \Sheet Iron\ preventative is good, but it is \ Greene.,., ''I ' ' ' : .l' I I ' . I '· ·' 'I .. ' .,. ' 'i ' . -.! '. I I; I 'I; I \ ~ 1 : . i t ~ ! l ' . i ' : i \ ,; l ' ~ \ I r·; i ! 1 ~ ·t! , , I 1 •1 l ' i l 'll ' '/ I 'I, . ~1 ! ' i j f: '': j I', 'I '' 'I j , .I I :II • I l ·~ \ ;{ '!, l< I ' ~· \· ' ' ' ~: '' -····'\\\'\''\\'-\''-·\\-\\'·'\\....-\\''\\\'~..jib ..,;.J'.....ii............,.....,._.,_...:,._..............,....,.... • ._..,._- ---...n-----··~-~----_...,....,._. _ _.. ______ ~. --·-_.,._....,...,,._,....,__..,.,.....,...._-~n•)lo-~_:_ ~~

THE CONCORDIENSIS. --~----- --~--~~~--- -- -~---------~- --------~ PERSONALS. LOCALS.. THIS is a dude. It is also a medical student. He : A NUMBER of phannacy students are regular at- bas been skating. He only wears one pair of tendants at the medical lectures. skates ; but is trying to get two pair to carry. Will he I The .students would suffer no inconvenience if the get then1 ? No ! The St. Agnes girls ar,e too shy ; also · lecture roon1 was W'!rmer some evenings than it is. too fly. What will he get? He will get the G. B. Is Prof. Tucker has been unable to attend his 'lectures his nmne St. Clair Vere de V ere ? No, it is J-. Some wonder if it is a faint recollection of \ Magun- dis county'' that causes A. L. to remain in the dining room so long after dinner. C. quietly remarks, \The reason M. does n't fre- quent the park of late is because watches are above par.\ Albany College of Pharmacy. CLASS MEETING. THE Senior class held a meeting on Wednesday, Jan. gth, i1nmediately after Professor Michaelis' lecture. President Cle1nent appointed the following cotnmittees : Printing, Richardson, Vedder and Staf- ford; invitations, \Varren and Dillenbeck. The other co1n1nittees wil1 be announced at the next class meet- ing. After discussing the arrangements for com- mencen1ent, the n1eeting adjourned, subject to the call of the president. HOLMES says that when lecturing to a class in a roo1n whose air had already been breathed by a forn1er class, as he has seen one head after another declining, and one pair of eyes after another closing, he has said to hin1self, inaudibly, with the considerate self-restraint of Musidora's rural lover : \ Sleep on, dear youth; this does not n1ean that you are indolent, or that I a1n dull; it is the partial coma of co1n1nenc- . ing asphyxia. \-Druggist's Circular. for the past few days on account of illness. flit Elmendorf, of '85, is secretary of the Albany County Pharmaceutical Society. Vedder reports a glorious tirrw at his hon1e in Cats- kill durin~ vacation. Richardson, '84, spent the holidays at his h()me in Clinton county. Congratulations are 111 order. father. Sautter, of '83~ is a Griffith spent the holidays at his home in New York. It was their first twilight interview. She swinging in the hamn1ock on the side veranda, and he sitting submissively at her feet with his legs dangling off the boards. \ How refreshing at the closing hours .of day,\ he gently retnarked, \to thus in sweet cornpanionship await the rising of the stars that will soon fleck the cerulean dotne of heaven with spangles of si,lver ! I 1 would ever thus, with thee at my side, revel in the glories of the azure-azure, as sure as-\ \What exquisite language,\ said she, with a sigh. \ How can you afford it. on six dollars a week ! ,,, The young man was not quite \ as sure \ as he was, and slid down the pillar to the yard, and was seen no n1ore thereabouts forever.-Ex. THERE was a man in our town, · And he was wondrous wise; He wrote a crib upon a cuff Of much diminished size. wE are sorry to see that no definite action has been taken in regard to a class pin .. ~ Why ; But when he felt a little bored, And yawned with arms extended, This wise man gave himself away, And straightaway was suspended.-Ex . .. this subject has been dropped we are at a loss to understand, as it was shown at a class 1neeting that a tnajority of the class were in favor of it. As there are about six weeks before co1nmencement, we see no reason why one should not be adopted before that time. pROF. TUCKER'S lecture on \Organic Chen1is- . try,\ given before the Senior class on Friday evening, Jan. 4th, was one of the tnost interesting lis- tened to thus far this term. The official books show that Blackwell & Co. pay nearly two-thirds of all the revenue collected on. tobac- co in their district. Their facilities (or packing and storing, that the tobacco may not be hurr.ied, but may have tin1e to cure and sweeten in a natural way, are the largest and finest in the world. These facts are n1entioned to show that when you use Black.well's Durham Long Cut in your pi~pe or cigarette you 1 necessarily smoke a pure tobacco.· v~ J req '] of l nc su AI su . JU or ' th of cc fr~ to at m fa

