T ) 1 t r lr l. r- le l1- er rk .st Lr- ts. '111 1at to er. of Ley wn The Con_cordien_sis. VoL VII. UNION UNIVERSITY, FRIDAY, MARCH 2 I' I 884. No.6. THE CONCORDIENSIS, PUBLISHED MONTHLY, BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY, BOARD OF EDITORS: JOHN F. DELANEY, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF. ASSOCIATE EDITORS. UNION COLLEGE: R. R. BENEDICT' '8+. PuTNAM CADY, '85. T. c. LAWLER, '86. LAw ScHooL: B. C. SLoAN. J. T. MoREY, 'Ss. J. J. McSoRLY, '85. E. E. VEEDER, '86. F. E. SMITH. MEDICAL COLLEGE: C. F. TIMMERMAN, '84. J. A. CUTTER, '86. S. E. ARMSTRONG, '85. SCHOOL OF PHARMACY: I. P. ESTCOURT. A. McFARLANE, Business Ma1zager. All communications should be addressed to P. 0. Box g6o. requested from the Alumni. • Articles TERMS.-One Dollar and a-half per year, in advance. Remit to the order of Business Manager. - ---- -- ---~--- E1ztered at tke Schenectady, N. Y., Post-Office as seco1td-class matter. AN article has been going the rounds of the college press, to the effect that President Potter, of this institutio~, had resigned and accepted the position of president at Hobart. This is untrue. President Pot- ter has not resigned. It is likely that the intelligence of his resigning would reach here as soon as so1ne of the colleges in whose papers the statelnents alluded to were PJade. It is but right to state, however, tha.t;- it is the general opinion at Hobart that the offer will not be refused. But this is but an opinion, as Pres. Potter has not, according to our knowledge, spoken decisive- ly on the matter. A COMMITTEE of the seniors .fro1n Hamilton made application on behalf of. 1nany of their class1nates, for admission to this college. They waited on the dean of the faculty and presented the facts of , the case. The matter was considered by the faculty and it was decided that the application should be refused. This is well. A college is not desirous of graduating men vvhon1 it did not educate. This and the fact that the tnen could not bring letters of honor- a111e dis1nission fro1n Hamilton, made other action than that which the faculty took ilnpossible. Since this application has been refused, it is 1nore than likely that a compron1ise will be effected between the Ham- ilton faculty and the men, and that 1TI:ost of the seniors will return to graduate. THE faculty has done well in taking measures to con1pel the attendance of seniors at the n1eet- ings of the senate. Now if sorne way could be de- vised of making the silent n1e1nbers (a great n1ajority) speak, it would be better. If silence is a sign of wisdo1n, the meetings of the senate are full of wis- doin. Eighty-four was very desirous last year that a house of representatives sh~uld be established and \rent to a great deal of trouble to procure that end. But now that there is a senate the old zeal seen1s to have died out and it is found necessary to make com- pulsory the attendance of the class at the meetings. This should not be so. We have little enough work in this line and should avail ourselves as 1nuch as pos- sible of all such opportunities. Brace up- give us some good debates on matters of interest and settle the affairs of the country. We have heard it.suggested that there should be an evening session to discuss so1ne ilnportant topic to which session the town should be invited. This is a good idea and calculated to re- vive the lost interest in the senate. THE spirit of freedo1n and the rights o~ the .bal~ot­ . box have so pervaded all our A1nencan Instl~u­ . tions that even the colleges of our country guard the ballots in their class elections as jealously as if the result of a presidential ca1npaigp was at stake. This is especially true at Union. Class politics here are at a white heat, and e1nbryo politicians are extravagant with n1iclnight oil, if only a new scheme can be con- cocted. But let us be more explicit, let us glance at the positions held by the several classes. The seniors, until recently, were afraid to attend a class n1eeting, lest one party should spring an election on the other. They were unable to have a n1eeting, even to tnake arrangements for a class supper, and

,, ) ~ ) . . :rtt '•' '' ' i'l 1 j :' ' ' I ., '' '! , I ,·' ',l \ ; I· II ., i: 11 I j '' '1': 1 '' l, j 'I 1 : f I ~ ! ) ~ : I ' I' ' i ' ~ ~ I'': I ! \ '!''' i ~ l \ I .. I, . ' \I ' ' 1: I I '> I ' ' ': 'I i i i I •! I ; I' : 1 I • 1 ')' I i ! t' I •, I I , , '.I . I. I', . I I I. ) '' I I ') ! ' THE CONCORDIENSIS. ------ - ---- -- -- - -- ------------------- secured their annual spread only by going as the col- lege senate and not as a class. But the good fellow- ship aroused hy the senate banquet resulted in an election where no factional feeling appeared. The junior class bravely defends a position shnilar to that of the seniors before their class election. After much wi:r;e-pulling, one faction. secured an election which is not recognized by the other party. The annual supper wa.s enjoyed by only half of the class. The sophon1ore and freshn1an classes are not behind the times, and have pro1nptly resolved thernselves into bold and uncornprornising politicians. They have been known to spend several hours fighting over an unin1portant connnittee. Now the question to be settled concerning all these undignified squabbles, is, whether or not it pays. The class offices do not confer lasting fame or lifelong honor. It is -only necessary that somebody shall fill the1n, and, beyond this, there is nothing. As elections are now carried ()n, it is no honor to be elected, since the 1110St unworthy men are often victorious, simply because their plans have been successful. Who can estirnate the extent of the harnt done by this state of affairs? Men whose natures are congenial and who would willingly become finn and lasting friends, are torn asunder. The happy college hours would be 1nade still happier, and alumni would look back to student life with less regret if there were n1ore equita- ble methods used in class politics. Why then sever the bond of friendship and descend to the low tricls of the ward politician, sin1ply to gratify a selfish ambition? That it would be hard work to restore order in this chaos of party strifes, is undeniable. But if all sides would drop wire-pulling and go to the 1n:eetings detennin.ed to act upon prin- ciples of justice, 1nuch of the difficulty and disgrace would be removed. Ithaca. Cornell, Hamilton, May 20, Utica. Geneva. May I 7, May 24, May 22, Roc!zester. May 23, Schen')'· May r6. May 30. during the last three years Union has done better away fro·m hon1e than at hon1e. This is a singular fact, but nevertheless true ; consequently we think it better for our chances that our first games should. be away fro1n home. Pecuniarily there is hardly a doubt that it is better. The last part of the season is the exci!ing part and in this case will be the warmer and pleasanter part, hence larger crowds and more money. The game with Hmnilton on Decora6on day will be in Troy, if possible, and the receipts will be divided between the visiting and home club; for all other games a guarantee of $5o will be given. The gmne in Ithaca, May 8, was arranged with an ·eye to the fact that the Psi Upsilon fraternity will be in convention there at that tin1e, thus n1any of our own college wilt get the benefit of the gan1e and rnany from. other col- leges will see what Union can do in the base ball field. A. H. K. JERVIS, B. B. D. CLASS SUPPERS. . JUNIOR CLASS SUPPER. THE class of . '85 is a jolly one on all occasions and especially at a class supper. The supper was. held at Sloan's Hotel, nine 1niles frotn Schenectady. The start was made fron1 North College with the horses on a gallop, and the speed was continually increased until the sleigh was overturned in a mons- trous snow bank. No one was injured. Only a short delay was necessitated and a few pairs of spectacles lost. Sloan's Hotel was reached at precisely eleven o'clock, the distance having been covered in twenty- eight 1ninutes. Everything was ready, the fire was glowing in the fire-place, and the spacious parlors pre- sented a comfortable appearance. At twelve the class sat down to a sun1ptuous feast, and satisfied the crav- ings of the inner man. Thirteen toasts were after- ward announced and responded to. The ride home was slower and less eventful. SOPfiOMORE CLASS SUPPER. Hobart, May 3, June II, Rochester, May 10, June 7, May I 7, May 21, May 30, June 10. June 6. THE class of '86 held their annual banquet at Wright's restaurant, Troy, and to say that it was a success would scarcely express it. Mr. Wright is a 1nodel host and enjoys the sport as much as the boys. The 1nenu was excellent, and after indulging the inner n1an satisfactorily, the toast-master, L. W. Groat, in a short and appropriate speech, which will long be reme1nbered by those who heard it, announced the toasts which were responded to in the following order : Union, May 8, May ro, May 7, May 6, T HE above is a schedule of gan1es for the con1.ing season of the New York State Inter-collegiate Base Ball League. It will be seen fron1 an inspection of the schedule that it could hardly be more favorable to Union. Our nine will, in aU probability, be in as good condition at the opening of the season as any nine in the league. In addition to this it is a fact that \Old Union,\ G. S. Dorwin; ''Our Thoroughbreds,''

r r .t e . .. n t, ~r Le ::::t m ill 11- d. as. ly. he lly lS- )rt les ·en ty- v-as re- ass av- :er- me at was .s a )ys. mer n a be the ier: ds '' ' rrHE CONCORDIENS[S. 93 J. J. Franklin, Jr.; \Our Absent Classmates,\ H. J. Cole; \Our College Dudes,\ J. L. R. Pratt; ''To 'Alex.' and 'Web.' \ J. C. Mcintyre, '87 ; \Ye Ver- ant Green,\ G. H. Case ; ·\ Le Jardin du College,\ G. R. F. Salisbury; ''Our Faculty,\ L. C. Felthousen; \Ye Daughters of Eve,\ A. H. Jackson; \What was Seen by the Man in the Moon,\ E. \V. Courtright ; \Our M. C.'s,\ E. G. Hayes; \ '86's Victories,\ F. E.. Hamlin; \The Besieged City,\ E .. C. Angle ; \'Our Past, Present and Future,\ Pres. F. W. Skinner. The toasts were well handled, especially those of Pratt, Hayes and Jackson,. and, as a whole, the supper was a great success .. Although the class has visited Wright's twice, they expressed a desire to 1neet hiln on their next \ occasion.\ FRESHMAN CLASS SUPPER. THE freshman banquet was held in Albany, at \The Windsor.\ Thirty of the class sat down at twelve o'clock to a very prettily laid table and began to enjoy themselves in a very hearty manner. Flanders, the president of the class, who has not been with then1 this tern1, was present. Also, Riley, who entered with the class but left soon after. The 1nenu, though not elaborate, was very 1nuch enjoyed by the class. After satisfying the inner man, the toast-1naster, G. E. Wentworth, opened the speaking in a few happy remarks which were received by the fellows with great applause. The toasts were as follows : \ Alma Mater,\ N. J. Gulick ; \The Red-headed Schenectady Cop,\ G. D. Buel; \Facial Adipose Tissue, (cheek),\ H. S. Estcourt ; \ Prospectus Freshmanorum,\ F. X. Rahsdall; \Beacon of the Class Romn,\ J. P. Job·n- son; \Faculty E. D. Very; \The Bright-Eyed Maid,\ W. M. Campbell; \Ye 'Sophs,'\ J. A. Long; ''Motto,\ C. A. Marvin; \Tatersalls J. T. W. Kar- tendrick; \The Dude,\ R. Funnan ; \ Class of '8 7 ,'' 'G. L. Flanders. The toasts were short but full of hu1nor aild were greeted by frequent applause and shouting. They were drank, in deference to the total- abstinence metnbers of the class, in cold water or coffee. During the evening, greetings came by tele- phone fr01n the class of '84, at Amsterdatn, which were received by the class with cheers, and the cry of '84 was given with a will. Imprornptu speeches were 1nade by a nun1ber. UNION COLLEGE SENATE. T . HE U. C. Senate banquet was held at the Hotel Warner, A1nsterdam, on Feb. zoth. The con1- pany which was billed to appear on that evening dis- banded the day previous, probably fro1n a wise knowl- edge of co1ning events. But there was an Old Folks' concert in one of the churches, with all which the words \church concert\ itnplies. Need more be said? Promptly at I 2 M., thirty 1nen1bers of the Senate, with two guests (Garnsey and Ferguson), sat down and prepared to do justice to the supper provided. After the refreshn1ents, both solid and liquid, had been thoroughly tested, the follo-vving toasts were announced by the toast-master, H. V. N. Philip: History of the Alimentary Canal Co.-C. H. Hill. Our Professors-A. McFarlane, Jr. A Senior's Dream-J. J. Kemp. Our Missing Classmates-A. H. K. Jervis. Our Future-· F. D. Hall. Old Dorp-C. B. Templeton. The Girls-R. R. Benedict. Our Athletes-G. F. Allison. Our Whips-. Z. Clark. Our Musical Brethren-B. G. Chisolm. Alma :Mater-]. Stoller. The Chapel Bell- E. S. Barney. Our Editors-D. Beekman. Class of '84-J. McEncroe, Pres't. An1ong the speeches those of Ketnp, Benedict and Beekman deserve especial 1nention, both for purity of thought and loftiness of style. After a love feast, in which vows of eternal friendship were interchanged,. the gay Senators wended their way to the depot, well pleased with their entertainrnent. LOCALS. THE _j~nior_s have con1menced the subject of Elec- tnclty. The nu1nber of P. M. Doty's hat store is not 36 State street, as we have advertised, but I 36 State street. All class suppers were held Wednesday, Feb. zo .. College exercises were entirely suspe1i.ded on the fol- lowing Thursday. Rev. Geo. Alexander spent a few days in town not long ago, the occ~sion being the installation of a min- ister in his old church here. The fresh1nen saw the end of the book of algebra March I 2th, and consequently are beginning to whis- per atnong then1selves about cren1ation. Prof. Staley took the seniors to Albany recently to visit the Dudley Observatory. This is an annual cus- ton1 highly appreciated by the students in Astrono1ny. It is said that Dr. Coppee will occupy Dr. Potter's chair in the senior class next tern1, besides taking the juniors through the usual course of English literature .. The juniors under Prof. Foster finished \Heat\ on the 9th. Electricity, Magnetism, etc., were then taken up, and will be pursued during the re1nainder of the .ternL

', ,, !j •. • l I ), p .. , ~ ·,:1 l '•' .t. t i J,, ,, '' I i': ) ' ~ ' ~ ! l ·.• ' I l i til, ': 'I' . I · I ' ' I .I :I l ; ' ' ~ I ' ~ ' I I I ' I 1 1'/ ; I' o \I j: ·, I I' I i : lj; \ '', I I ~ , II ' , I I I I I : ; i ·! ' ~ I 94 'fHE CONC'ORDIENSIS. A tennis court has recently been established in the Gyn1. This affords an excellent sport during the win- ter months and is also a 1neans of acquiring moderate . exercise. Prof. Ashmore has been giving the juniors an inter- esting course of lectures on the doctrines of ancient philosophy, as referred to in the De Natura Deorum, of Cicero. Tutor Anable has not a very high opinion of the sophon1.ore class. We understand that \Tute\ says the class of '8 6 is the toughest class he has ever seen in college. Hard luck for '86 ! A class in medical chen1istry is to be formed next term. This will offer special advantages to those in- tending to pursue the study of medicine after the completion of their regular college course. Edmunds, '86, leaves college at the end of this tern1. The boys in South college will miss the genial face of the \senator but they will all unite in wish- ing hi1n success in whatever enterprise he embarks. I noticed that a large nu.mber of the students turned out a few Sundays ago to hear the Rev. Prof. Paxton, of Princeton Seminary. He preached a splendid ser- mon, which was heartily enjoyed by all who heard hi1n. The Y. M. C. A. here is to be congratulated upon the· way in which they are no~ going at their work. On March 9 one student made a profession of religion. Evidently the visit of the general secretary has done the1n good. Cremation is close at hand and the freshmen are undoubtedly preparing for it or thinking seriously of it. No threats have yet been heard from the so phs., but the fresh1nen should remember that \still water runs deep.\ The forty-seventh annual convention of the Sigma Phi fraternity was held at the Carley house, Schenec- tady, Tuesday, March 4th. The tables were bounti- fully spread with provisions and all partook with evident relish. Did you read of the class supper the freshmen didn't have at Cornell? That was about the most successful scheme ever worked in that line. Since that the freshmen have had a supper without interfer- ence from the \ sophs.'' By the way~ have you noticed how diligent the · sophomores are in their attendance at chapel and reci- tation. The chapel delegation not long ago consisted of two. One of the instructors thinks they are ahead of any class yet in that line. At the state convention of the Young Men's Chris- tian Associations, held in Buffalo, the University of N,ew York, Cornell, Rochester,. Adelbert, Troy Poly- tecnic and Union were represented. A reception was given the students at a private residence. In consequence of. the additional work imposed upon Prof. Lamoreaux by the absence of the Presi- dent and the preparation of the general catalogue, only one declamation will be required this term. The professor has also been suffering from a slight attack of illness. Prof. Wells gave recently a short 1ecture to the juniors on the \ Lasker\ question. He seemed to think that the action of Prince Bisn1arck was justifiable under the circumstances, and that it would appear so to Americans generally when the real facts in the case were properly understood. Prof. Wells delivered a second lecture on Bermuda in the State-street Methodist c4urch, March 7th. The lecture was very interesting and was listened to by a large audience. The professor has returned much improved in health and bearing the marks of Ber- muda's climate upon his countenance. The newspaper \fiends \ who infested Baum's news- · room so long were taken aback one evening, a short time ago, by the appearance of a notice stating that it was not a free reading-room. The ·proprietor's patience at times must have been sorely tried, and we wonder that the notice was not posted earlier. Exatninations will soon be upon us. Some of these will not be remarkable for easiness. \ Tutor\ has already signified his intention of giving the sopho- mores a written examination of three hours in Eng- lish. Reviews have commenced and the back-sliders are making the best of their \last chance.\ The sophomores, under Prof. Chaplin, are reviewing last term's work in analytical geometry along with the work of the present term. The examination will cover all the ground gone over during the two terms. Not few were the groans to which their feelings gave vent when this was annonnced in the class roon1. The men in college evidently do not appreciate the work which the editors perform in order to make the paper presentable. If they did, th~y would be more prompt in paying up their subscriptions, and not give the editors the additional labor of hunting them up in order to dun them. See to it that you pay as soon as possible. On Wednesday, Lieut. Hubble began a series of lectures to the fresh1nen, in the chapel, on military

f s e 0 0 a a it rs er ot nt . Ill as of THE CONCORDIENSIS. 95 topics, by one on Discipline. He read from a volu- minous manuscript, and, much to the delight of the freshmen, omitted a great deal. On the whole it was a very interesting lecture, 'and they promise fair to continue so. We stopped at Rochester several weeks ago and went to the University to see Prof. Webster. \ We b.\ I has not changed and is as much a . favorite with the ! I boys at Rochester as he is at Union. He wishes aU the Union men to know that he will be happy to receive them at any time at 172 Monroe avenue, Rochester, N. Y . object, and also in the study of 1naterials and adjust- n1ent of parts in n1achinery. His plan for a mechan ... ical laboratory has resulted in the nucleus of a collec- tion of working models, and needs only college funds or priv-ate generosity to make it what it should be. Prof. Hollis has been just ten years in the United States service. He was graduated at the Annapolis Academy with the highest grade ever attained in that institution up to the present date. He will be stationed at the Morgan Iron Works in New York to inspect the construction of the \ Chicago \ and other government vessels. We wish him every success in his new field 1 of labor. Prof. Perkins has made it very interesting for the juniors in organic chemistry this term. One notable feature has been his course of lectures on the various organizations,_ accompanied throughout by practical illustrations. We think the lecture syste1n might be applied successfully to other departlnents where older, 1 but not necessarily better, n1ethods are still adhered I I to. I The rnilitary departn1ent under Lieut. Hubble has I I made a decided advance. The Lieut. has made the : Suppose you wish to change to a tobacco whose purity is beyond suspicion, which will prove less irrita- ble to the nerves, whose flavor and fragrance are more inviting. What would you choose? Careful analysis shows that Blackwell's Durham Long Cut contains only a trace of nicotine and the nitrat€s. As these are what n1ake tobaccos irritable, you can avoid them by resorting to the Durha1n Long Cut. in~restinth~departmentverygrea~andthework~ ~~~~==~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ done with· a will. One hundred dollars was given by a gentlen1an to this departn1ent. It is to be used for prizes and am1nunition. Thirty-five dollars is to be given in prizes to the three neatest men in their anns and accoutre1nents. At a meeting of the senior class on Thursday, Ma:r. I 3th, the following-na1ned officers were elected by acclalnation : President - Pickens Neagle. Vice-President- Henry Z. Pratt. Secretary- Wm. N. P. Dailey. Treasurer·- Harry C. Young. Grand Marshal - Cleveland C. Hale. Orator- William A~ Moore. Historian - Dow Beekman. Poet-James J. Kemp. Prophet-F. Dixon Hall. Addresser-Daniel Naylor, Jr. Pipe Orator-James Stoller. Ivy Orator-Geo. F. Allison. Ivy Poet-Charles A. Kitts. Students and faculty are regretting the prospective departure fro1n Union College of Prof. Ira N. Hollis, U. S. N. He awaits only the detail by the Navy De- partlnent of a successor who 1nay carry out his meth- ods. During his three years of instruction here, his students fron1 the three lower classes have made excel- lent progress in mechanical, topographical and archi- tectural drawing, always fro1n the model or original WHAT HAPPENETH IN THE COLLEGE WORLD. H ARVARD.-The university nine will be strong in every position except be hind the bat. Wendell Phillips graduated in r83r. The bicycle club will shortly hold an open race 1neeting. The new bicycle track is said by experts to be one of the fastest in the country. The tug-of-war temn for Mott Haven will be chosen fro1n two tea1ns which show superiority in the prelin1inary contest. Pennission has been granted to play professional nines. The number of students is r,5 22. Y ALE.-Knee breeches were all the rage at the pron1enade given by '85. \<<> The glee club has received $r,2oo from the railroad con1pany for the dmnages received in the late acci- dent. Tha base ball season will open about April 3d by a gan1e with the champion Athletics of the A1nerican Association. There is a 1nove1nent on foot to start an illustrated humorous paper like the Harvard Lampoon. DARTMOUTH;-There is a project on hand to form a 1ninstrel troupe in the college. The suppers of all the classes have been held. Mr. Cable's reading fro1n his works was thoroughly enjoyed by the large audience gathered to hear hin1.

,: i) ' ' . l ~ ' ' ' 1!' I; ,,, '· i '' ,I ,, i ~ ~ . ' : : '•\' ri::: , I ~ '' I : t)ll' 1 t' ' '' \ ' ', tlj:·; I , : .. :! ; - . ~ } I < J j ·l .. : 'I: lj• 11 :!i . ~ r; ~ ' ... ! i l• ' '! j I i! ;. ' ' I ::1 I t II t ~ ! '' •' ) ; ,I ·., '' . , l !' :I ·'' . ! I ; ,I' : \' :\ ! i I .~ ' ' ; ' :I:. i ' i' :! ; '!, ; ~ ' I, ' I . i ' l 1 '' :I j I • l If , , i I ~ t :.·1 i ' ! '!'· I 96 'THE CONCORDIENSIS. 1'he Dart77t·ozttlz says Mr. Cable's voice is very flexible and of .rnllch power, his dialect under perfect control, and in itself very an1using. When you. add to the above rather remarkable abilities of the actor:, Mr. Cable's success is plainly understood. The 11.ine still continue to do good work in the gym, under tile coaching of Corcoran of the Chicagos. WILUAMS.-The joint debate between the two liter- ary societies took place in the latter part of February. ·The q_l!lestion, Resolved, that Congress should pass a national divorce law to supersede the existing state ·divo-rce }a. ws. The decision was for the negative. A few of the freshmen have been greatly excited lately over their \ chess tournatnent.\ It is safer than poker .-A.tJzenaettm. A beautiful belle from the North Adams stage, not long since, hailed so1ne one in the audience with \Hello;. Ba.ldy l \ Murder will out.-AtlzenaeztJJZ. AI\UIERSr.-The vital statistics of the senior class have been taken. The Choral Society has over one hundred and fifty members. The C1ee Club has been unfortunate at every con- cert. Bad weather was encountered on each occa- . SlOn. Alb:any Law School. AMERICA'S GREATEST ADVOCATE. THE fmne of the illustrious subject o: this sketc~ · n1:ust ever rest more upon the testunony of his. conternporaries than upon any manuscript that he has. left us, for the reason that he seldoiu spoke fro1n notes. and rarely preserved that which he did commit t(} paper. But frorn the testi1nony thus adduced, it can- not be doubted that R.ufus ·Choate was the greatest advocate ever produced on A1nerican soil. Rufus Choate was born in Essex, Mass., on the rst of October, I 799, and continued to reside there until I 8 r 5, with but poor educational advantages, though displaying a great love for books. At the age of six- teen years he entered Dartmouth College and at once took a leading position in his class, which he n1ain- tained throughout his course, graduating in r8r9. During his course there, the celebrated Dartlnouth College case was before the courts, and Mr. Choate becmne deeply interested in the result and was very enthusiastic over the argument of Webster in the Supre1ne Court of the United States, and this circuin- stance undoubtedly had rnuch to do in directing the CoLlJ~[BIA.-The finances of the boat club are in ; attention of Mr. Choate to the study of law. good condition. j For a year after his graduation, he acted as tutor at The list of thesis subjects for the seniors has been I the college and then entered Harvard Law SchooL publish-ed. .sorne of the~ are : Th~ Tari~ Th.e I After re1~aining a few 1nonths at Harvard, ~e. re1no~ed Greek QuestiOn, The Certainty of a Future Life, Pn- I to Washington and entered the office of W~lham Wirt,. vate Foverty, Money, etc. . 1 who was then Attorney-General of the Un1ted States_, I and one of the greatest lawyers of his time. During EVERYWHERE. his residence in Washington he was a close observer Ward, of New York, goes to Princeton two days in of public men and affairs, and spent much of his time the week to coach the nine. J in pouring over the volumes of the congressiona1 Dr .. Mark Hopkins reached his eighty-third birthday I library. - on Feb. 4th. Fron1 \Vashington he returned to Massachusetts. The1·e a.re one hundred and ninety college papers in and entered the .office of Judge Cum1nins at Sale1n,. the United States. and in 18 2 5 was ad1nitted to the bar of the Supretne Oxfor<l students have just brought out the '' Mer- Court of Massachusetts. chant ().[Venice.\ His first office was ope11ed at Danvers, and there Five Chinese princes have been admitted to West he experienced the hard beginning that is the lot of Point and five to Annapolis. all young attorneys. Indeed, so despondent of success C()rnell students have been having lively times with was he, that he frequently though~ seriously of aban- their dass suppers. The sophs waylaid and ate up cloning his profession a11d turning his attention to '87's su.pper, which had been prepared by Teale, of some 1nore certain n1eans of attaining a livelihood. Rochester, at considerable expense. He did not, however, waste his titne, but devoted the The University of Michigan is to build a gym. for . otherwise idle hours to that careful study and profound young ladies. research which so well fitted him for the responsibil- A Glee Club has been formed at Vassar. ities which after years was to place upon· him. At

e h er tts. of to bil- At TH·E CONCORDIENSIS. 97 length the sure reward of industry at1d p~rseverance 1 -crowned his efforts and he gradually rose to a high 1 position in the con1munity where he resided. In the meantime, in I8z',s, he had taken unto him- self a wife, and in this alliance he seems to have been particularly fortunate. The lady was .Miss Helen Olcott of Hanover, N. H., and was possesed of great intelligence and discretion, and it was Iargel y through fhe influence which she exerted. over him that Mr. Choate was encouraged to proceed iq that path which led him to the height of professional atnbition. His vigor, assiduity and zeal in all that he under- took soon_ brought him a lucrative practice, and when, in r8z8, he ren1oved to Salem, his reputation had pre- ceded hin1, and he was soon the acknowledged leader of that eminent bar. From the beginning, 1\tlr. Choate is said to have given the same close attention to the n1ost petty cases that he did to the n1ore in1portant, and used them as a 1neans of perfecting himself in his style of conduct- . 1ng a case. In I83o he was elected a representative in congress and was re-elected in r 833, but resigned his seat jn r 8 34, re1noved to Boston and resumed the prac- tice of law. In I 84 I he was elected United States Senator in place of Daniel Webster, who had been appointed Secretary of State by President Harrison. He retired from the senate in I845 .and resu1ned the practice of law at Boston. He was at one time offer- ed the Attorney-Generalship of the United States, and at another time, a seat on the supren1e bench of Massachusetts, but he declined both of these positions. In the early part of I 8 59 his constitution gave out under the great strain to which it was subjected, and he was at last persuaded to visit Europe, if possible, to recuperate. But he grew rapidly worse on the voy- age out and was landed at Halifax, where he died on the 13th of July, I859· Mr. Choate rrtade oratory a life study, and attained a style clearly his own. He clothed it in such an imagery and wealth of words that his rivals were prone to deny his power until they learned it to their sorrow. He was not merely eloquent when he spoke on themes that were calculated of the1nselves to touch the feel- ings or stir the passions of his auditors, but his genius enabled hin1 to interest and fascinate his hearers, even while discussing the driest and 1nost unpro1nising sub- .. jects. The record of his zeal, power and success, attest the justice of the clailn that he was the greatest of An1erican advocates. THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION. J N the November nurnber of this paper there ap- peared an article entitled \The Alumni Associa- tion,\ which was written by a pron1inent metnber of the association, and gives full inforn1ation of the organization and its first banquet. The association holds a banquet annually, and me1nbers of the gradua- ting class who becotne 1ne1nbers at the time of grad- uation are allowed to participate. In this way the necessity of a class supper is obviated, and at much less cost the student l1as the privilege not only of banqueting with but becoming acquainted with men1- bers of the alumni of the school who stand in the foren1ost rank of the legal profession. The cost of joining the association is but one dollar and it is hoped that every member of the class of '84 will have his name upon the rolL All who will be entitled to graduate \'in May will be allowed to join at once and are requested to do so as it would be a n1atter of convenience to the secretary of the association whose services are gratuitous. The constitution may be signed and 1nembership secured at the office of the secretary, Chas. H. Mills, Esq., No. 7 4 State street. The following is the constitution of the Albany Law School Alumni : NAME. This Association shall be known as the Albany Law School Alumni. MEETINGS. The Annual Meeting shaH be held at the Albany Law School on the Commencement Day of each year. , ' MEl\IBERSHIP. I. All former members of the Albany Law School, now presft ent, shall be enrolled as members upon paying an assessment of One Dollar, and signing the Constitution. ·2. Any attendant ·or graduate of the Albany .Law School shall be elegible to membership. Members shall only be elect- ed at the Annual Meeting and shall receive the votes of two- thirds of all members present, and shall pay the same assess- ment, and sign the Constit·ution. 3· The Annual Dues of each member shall be One Dollar. Any member failing to pay the same, may by a majority vote of the members present at any meeting, be dropped from the roll. OFFICERS. The Officers shall be a :President, ten Vice-Presidents, a Sec- retary, a Treasurer, and an Executive Committee of three, which officers shall be elected at the Annual Meeting. INCOME AND PAYMENTS. The income arising fr<nn such Assessments and Annual Dues shall be applied to pay the necessary expenses of the Association, under the direction of the Executive Committee. PRIZES. Prizes may be offered for Essays on Legal Subjects, to be

:I I ·! l! ':f 1: ~ I l l . ,: ~ ~ ' l)'ll ! '!:· I I ,I I, I lj ) ~ I d;i,' I 'II ' l '· il ' . : ~ ; • l fJ,I;!t I ,. ' i : 'I .; l ' ··'i ,, ' il I I .,. ~ i I Ll . ' : ...... ~t:': I 1\\ iii:. ' ! ' Jl i I' ~ I :;, ,1 ; •! • ~I ' I ! :\I ·tl;l I ' J.:' I f i I~ I ' r .. i I it. ·• ;I. . '· 't,; ,, \ ,,, I ,:·:, I. r• ~ \,' 11;·· I', .. : 1:. ; ; . I ~ ! I ••tl!• ~ ' ' ; qllil ' •, ,,. \ ., ,(\ ,,~Ill w:• ' . I ' : 1 11 11f I 'I ,, \ lil ! t:. li . il· . . I ~, • ' ! 1 1 l) HI i i , I:'· I t ~ l I ' '' ,• I i· 1 _11;1.: ; I i:t j ' 'I' I i !\tt. I ' ~ ' ' I; 'il' l ';' 'i•· j I '' - ' I ,\ 'I 't'l;: I I•, I' •. I I \ ~ ' 'j ,, I 1:, '•i' I ' j ,,, ' l ' ii; ' ,I' ' : ,',: ~~ I' 'I . '• 'I ' ' ·- g8 THE CONCORDlENSIS . competed for by members of the Association. The Question and the Subject to be written -upon shall be decided upon ·by the President and Executive Committee. RULES OF ORDER. The Executive Committee shall at the next Annual Meeting report Rules of Order. AMENDMENTS. This Constitution may be amended at any Annual Meeting. All amendments shall receive the votes of two-thirds of all the members present. THE SET-UP. I N deference to an old custom, and to show their . appreciation of the honors conferred, the recently elected class officers, after their induction into office, on the evening of the 25th, invited the class to par- take of a banquet at the Jestaurant of Kearney & Best, on Broadway. Accordingly, at about nine o'clock the class was formed in line by Marshal Gould and nlarch- ed down to the restaurant. The feast provided was highly satisfactoy to all who partook, and the remarks of approbation lavished upon the proprietol's were not few. After satisfying the inner man, different mentbers of the class were called upon for speeches, and this enter- tainment was kept up until nearly every n1ember of the class had had his say. The speeches as a whole were excellent, many abounding with wit, hun1or and good sense combined. The merry party dispersed about 1nidnight, well satisfied with what they had done, both as to their choice of men to fill the various offices, and as to the n1anner in which they had dis- posed of the val'ious eatables and drinkables. Q F the numerous clubs ol'ganized at the begin1iing ' Q·N Monday, March roth, President Davidson · called a n1eeting of the class for the purpose of discussing the advisability of holding Class Day exercises. After so1ne discussion the subJect was re- ferred to the executive committee, who were instructed to investigate and report at an early date. Messrs .. Lane and Rutherford resigned as members of the executive com.tnittee and the president was authorized to fiH the vacancies. The subject of a class picture was discussed, and Messrs. Tripp, Ballard and Gar- land were appointed a co1nmittee to take charge of the n1~tter and see what arrangen1ents could be n1ade . The meeting then adjourned. DOINGS OF THE EUREKA CLUB. QN February 6th, Chief Judge Spalding presidingr the case of Bander vs. Gale was argued by Counselor McMahon for plaintiff, and Counselor Siinonds for defendant. The opinion was delivered _by ,Counselor Weeks and sustained by the court. ~n the case of Boshart vs. Plumb, Counselor Ballard appeared for the plaintiff and Counselor Rutherford for the defendant. Mr. Si1nonds gave an opinion in favor of plaintiff which was sustained. In executive session a resolution was offered chang- ing the na1ne of the club from that of Eureka to· \ Edwards Club,\ in honor of the late Judge Edwards, dean of the law school. Under the rules, the resolu- tion was laid on the table for one week. On the r 3th of February, Chief Justice Sullivan · presiding, the cause of ·Quincy vs. Phillips was argued by Messrs. Garland and Gifford, and an opinion given for the defendant. In the case of Munson vs. l(line, Messrs. Mudge and Ashton appeared respectively for plaintiff and de- fe11dant. A verdict was given for plaintiff. 'The resolution offered at the previous meeting, in ' relation to changing the name of the club, was taken up and adopted, and the club will hereafter be known as the Edwards Club. · of the year only two survive. This is to be regret- ted, as good clubs, properly conducted, would certainly be of great benefit to the students.· It is here, in the presence of fellow students, that we should 1nake the ·first efforts and try to learn to stand alone, to think on our feet, and say what we mean. It is a popular no- tion that it is a large part of a lawyer's business to make speeches and that they are always ready. In I after life we will be frequently called upon to speak, and ,if we can do so creditably it will help us out of ·lnany a difficulty. But there n1ust be a beginning and the first effort is seldo1n a success. The greatest orators of all ti1nes have been those who labored under the greatest disadvantages in beginning, and all have had their n1oments of disappointrnent and chagrin. If. then we a~e able to wear off the early etnbarrass- ment before being called to more trying places in the world, we will have a great advantage. After the reading of a biographical sketch of the late Matt Carpenter of Michigan, by J. H. Davidson, the club was adjourned to the first Wednesday in March. BRIEFS. I THIRD TERM. : Winter has set in. At the exa1nination held under the direction of the General Tenn of the Supreme Court in January, a class of twenty-seven young 1nen were ad.tnitted to the

y •. e d )[ In to· ed . 111 the . 1n the y, a the THE CONCORDIENSIS. 99 bar. A1nong the111 were Messrs. Gifford, K.in1ball, McNatnara, Mudge, Strevell, and F. E. Smith of this institution. It is hardly probable that the \Salvation Army\ will take up quarters in Albany this year, as· the Med- ical College has already closed . Prof. Sn1ith has recovered fro1n his recent illness, and is again in his place at the school, dispensing the daily installments of brain food. The subjects now under consideration, are bailn1ents and crin1inal law. Lectures on the forn1er by Prof. Smith ; on the latter by Prof. Brown. The class has received two additions this term, in the persons of Mr. Davis of vVarren County, this State, and Mr. Love of Vern1ont. To these gentlen1en we extend a hearty welcon1e. The various clubs have held n1eetings for election of officers, and in each case re-elected the officers who served last tern1. Mr. A. Newcomb was elected to fill a vacancy in the office of sheriff of the Sickles Moot Court Club. Albany l\Iedical College. THE eleventh annual tneeting of our Alu1nni Asso- ciation took place Marcl1 sth at the 1\'Iedical College. The day was a propitious one and the 1 attendance large. The usual reception was held in the i library during. the forenoon and a p~rt of the. aft.er- 1 noon- sandwiches, coffee and the hke constltuttng 1 the bill of fare. At a little after three o'clock \the old 1 triangle \ announced that the ti:tne for the fonnal exer- i cises was at hand, and presently Alun1ni Hall found i itself unable to acco1nmodate all with seats who wished ' to attend. The acting president, Dr. F. S. Greene of Coxsac- i kie, called the tneeting to order, and after the transac- tion of son1e routine business, including an address of welco1ne to the alun1ni by Professor Perkins, the eulogies upon the late president, Jacob S. J\fosher, were 111ade the special order of the day, Dr. David 1\1urray speaking of hin1 as an educator, St. Clair I J\lcKelway, Esq., as a citizen, and Professor San1uel B. 1 \Varcl, M.D., as a physician. But few tnen have ever In the last chapter of the \ History of the Albany 1 been more kindly or n1ore deservingly remetnbered Law School,\ it was stated that the course ~t the j th~n Dr. l\tfosher was on this occasion. In the course school was one year. The course covers a penod of · of his address, Dr. J\~Iurray said: \For 1nyself, I have two years, but students are allowed to graduate if they n1et few tnen, who, in force or quality of thought, have, previous to entering the school, studied one 1 were his superiors. That great n1ass of brain, sixty- year in an office. I four ounces, was not given to hiln for nothing. JVIany On the 22 d of February, JVIrs. J. Ellen Foster, the : of you know how shrewd and1)enetrating was his n1en- lady lawyer of Iowa, and the 1 nother of our esteelned 1 tal insight; how keen was his scent in tracing a fallacy; classmate, vV. H. Foster, delivered a lecture before the I how dextrously, when a clever adversary was forcing school, on \ Constitutional Prohibition.\ The lecture hin1 into a false position, he could double on his pur- was an excellent one, con 1 n 1 anded careful attention suer an<.l n1ake good his escape. It was this quick and left a deep in 1 pression. wit, this nin1ble dialectic skill, \Vhich rendered hin1 the n1ost delightful co1npanion in an intellectual syn~­ posiunl. It was, when the cares of his profession were laid aside, when the worries and disappointrnents of life, and so1netimes its appointlnents, too, were forgotten, and he could settle down with congenial spirits for free and unrestrained discourse- it was then that Dr. J\1osher was seen at his best. It was then that you began to learn so1netl1ing of .the resources of his 1nind and the treasu.re:3 \vhich he had gathered fro111 books and n1en. You would wonder how and when he had found so 1nany rare and forgotten books, At the opening of the new ten11, we 1nissed the faces of J\1essr~. Lubeck, Steck and Banks. Mr. Lu- beck cotnpleted his course here last tern1 and received his diplo111a. Mr. Steck has gone to Texas on a visit. J\1r. Banks has returned to his hon:1e in Maine. These gentlen1en were an1ong the n1ost genial and esteemed 1nembers of their class and are greatly 111issed. A ludicrous instance of punning upon a na111e once took place i~1 a judicial court of New York, which is thus told: Counsel had been questioning a certain witness nan1ed Gunn, and in closing, he said to hi1n, \JVIr. G_?nn, you can now go off.\ The judge on the 1 bench, seeing the pun, gravely added, \ Sir, you are discharged.'' Of course an explosion in co·1rt imtne- diatel y ensued. and still n1ore, that he had f()und time to cull so 1nuch of their contents. It was th.cn that you discovered unexpected works of sunshine and shadow in his char- acter ; his love of the woods, his passionate enjoyrnent of the sea, his fine and appreciative taste in art, his

\. •j': •I ': : ' n. , , j •1ll )J 1,.! ' ;t l ~ I J ~ I 1 !!,·' 1:' IOO THE CONCORDIENSIS. reverence for the good, his disdain of conventionalities, write this estitnate of a dead friend to fulfill a pro1nise his noble fidelity to friends and truth and n1anhood.\ to a con1n1ittee of the alurnni of this college. The Dr. Murray closed his address with the follo\ving request honors the love which it is known he and I touching words: \Who will forget that 1norning in had for one another. The test laid upon me to do August when the news was spread through the street justice to .the civic and social sides of the man who is that Dr. Mosher was dead? It was like the cry that gone n1ust be n1easured by the spirit in which I shall went up in Egypt when in every house the first-born try to n1eet it. Older and abler than I must be any was found dead. The work1nen at the Capitol heard one who can meet more than the spirit of that test it and the busy din of hannners was still. The tner- successfully. * * * I have said he was rarely self- chant heard it on the street and hurried to his ho1ne deceived. Th.at n1eans that be sometin1es was. Two to irnpart the sad inteUigence. Telephone and tele- things 1nade this now and then possible. The first graph caught up the sound and carried it from house was his zeal for the exploration of causes, taking the to house, fron1 city to city, and fro1n the hon1es of fonn of a passion for theories. Those theories were rich and poor, fro1n the highest to the lowest, in the occasionally rnore plausible than correct, and always city and in the wilderness, one universal wail of sorrow positiyely assun1ed, in either case, and resolutely held • went up. to, until their untenability was perceived. He then at \Could it be true? He, the strong, active and un- ·once made, however, the very discovery of their unten- tiring n1an ! \Vas it not but yesterday that we saw ability a n1eans of instant, well-nigh imperceptible him in the midst of his work, busy with head and hand? retreat ~o safe ground where he would s1nile on you He had planned for hin1self wl:at was the greatest with a blandness that was irresistibly winning. He pleasure of his yearly routine of life. Much as he was capable of error. He was incapable of being loved his work, his profession and his studies, no 1nan cornered. He did not 1nake, lawyer like, the worse enjoyed n1ore than he that recreation which labor appear the better reason ; he flanked the worse reason earns for itself and deserves. The refreshing shade and got a·breast of the better reason with a readiness of the woods, the cool sound of the plashing oar, the that was more attractive and rapid than the 1nental distant baying of the hounds, beckoned hin1 away process of any other 1nan of all that I have ever known frotn the hot and dusty town. Dear friends waited could be said to be. The second cause of his capa- and watched for his co1ning. He had put his house bility of erring was the fact that he ate more 1nental in order. With tender solicitude for those to who1n food than he could assin1ilate. He was a physician, a he was both 1nother and father, he had arranged for surgeon, a botanist, a chemist, a sanitarian, a lecturer, his children's vacation. He had given thought and a registrar, a clinical teacher, a debater, an essayist, an care to every public trust. He had put his patients art collector, a biliophile, a hunter, a fisher, a n1arks- into careful and skilful hands. He had spent n1any 1nan, a n1icroscopist, an instructor of youth, a 1nedical hours of the night in writing needful letters. Even a editor, a cataloguist, a proof reader, a machinist, an poor girl preparing to sctil for Gern1any, who n1ight engineer, a navigator, a club 1nan, a pharmaceutist, an want for friends, was not forgotten, and his last letter annalist, an historian, a critic, a 1nathen1atician, a was one to the captain of the stean1er asking for her linguist, a play-goer, a carpenter, a horticulturist, a kindness and consideration on her voyage. At last trustee in many institutions, a politician, a successful everything was ready. He put aside his finished tasks candidate for honored positions which he well adinin- and sought the repose which his protracted labors istered, an ornithologist, a n1e1nber of 1nany associa- tnade welcome. And it can1e. The weary man found tions, a correspondent with 111any savants, a traveller, rest-sweet, unbroken, peaceful re.st. vVithout a strug- the confidant and associate of states1nen, theologians, gle, without a n1on1ent of interval, he \passed fron1 authors, journalists, bankers and scientists, a photogra.- the repose- of sleep into the repose of death.\ The pher, an electrician, a 1nental expert, a wit, a philoso- heart which had battled with an unseen and n1ysterious pher, a man of affairs, and a n1an of society, an after- malady, surrendered and ceased to beat. The busy dinner speaker, and, in the better sense of the word, brain at last found rest. A great and n1anly soul, a Bohei11ian. * * * In each of these departn1ents he scarred with the conflicts of life, but hopeful and was alert, sincere and suggestive. In none was he pre- courageous, tender and true, finished its earthly pro- e1ninent. In none was he a pretender or a sciolist. bation.\ In son1e he was eminent. In all he was respectably Mr. Mc~elway said, mnong n1any other things: \ I I effective.''

e e I 0 LS 11 .y st f- \0 st te re vs ld at L1- lle )U Ie 1g se )fi :ss tal vn )a- tal ,a er, an <:S- eal an an ,a ,a ;ful . 111- . :Ja- ler ' .ns, ;ra.- so- :er- •ru, he 7re- list. .bly THE CONCORDIENSIS. tor In order that the reader n1ay get an adequate idea regarding the positions of trust anD. honor which Dr. Mosher held during his bri.ef career, we quote the fol- lowing fron1 the address of Professor Ward: \Grad- uating fro1n this college in r 86 3, he served in the'\'year following as volunteer surgeon in the anny before Petersburg. He was afterwards made assistant medi- cal director for the State of New York. He was also military superintendent and surgeon in charge of the State Hospital for disabled soldiers in this city, until it was closed. In r869 he· was appointed Sur- geon General of the State by qovernor Hoffn1an, and served as such until 1873. Fro1n r87o to r876 he held the position of deputy health officer of the port of New York. His connection with the Albany Hos- pital ran through several years, ·and was varied and valuable in character. The san1e was true of St. Peter's Hospital: his :tnembership of the n1edical staff of these two institutions making large drafts on his tirne. Fron1. r863 to 1870 he was Professor of Chemistry in the Albany Academy. His relations to this college are well known to you all. He was at first Professor of Chemistry and Medical Jurisprudence, afterwards of the Theory and Practice of Medicine, and was for a long time the Registrar and Librarian. * * * He was a tnember of the Albany County Med- ical Society, and had been its president. Having served as delegate to, he had become a pennanent member of, the Medical Society of the State. He was a feU ow of the New York Acaderny of Medicine. He had been a delegate to the A1nerican Medical Association. He was a member of the body that drafted the law under which the National Board of Health ca1ne into existence. He was chairman of the Board of Health of this city. He was professor in the Albany College of Pharmacy, and president of the facnlty. And, lastly, he was President, at the tin1e of his death, of this Alun1ni Association-this last fact causing this session to be 1nade one of honor to his men1ory.'' After a vote of thanks being tendered the speakers by the association, routine business was again taken up, in the transaction of which \the award of prizes\ is of the n1ost interest to us. We copy fro1n the Argus of lVIarch 6th: \Dr. L. Hale, fro1n the comn1ittee on the alu1nni prizes, reported that three essays had been received in con1petition for the MacNaughton 1nemorial prize of 1 $roo for the best essay on \The effect of clin1ate in the treatment of Pulmonary tuberculosis.\ No award 1 was made. The prize of $3oo, offered by Dr. Albert Van Derveer, for the best essay on \Colles fracture,\ was awarded to Dr. Clinton B. Herrick of Troy, for an elaborate paper, accompanied by specin1ens.\ It is worthy of note that Dr. Herrick chose the word \ Concordiensis \ as the n1otto which should accom- pany his essay and specimens ; also, that the specimens are very valuable and will be placed in the College Museun1 Ly Prof. Van Derveer. The following is a list of the officers for ~he ensuing year : President, Dr. Horace T. Hanks of New York, '6r ; Vice-presidents, Drs. G. M. Teeple of Bridge- port, Ct., '49, Edwin Barnes of Pleasant Plains, '65, A. B .• Burger of Mechanicville, '66, E. S. Allbee of Bellows Falls, '70, W. A. Hall of Fulton, '7 5 ; Secre- tary, Dr. \Villis G. Tucker of Albany, '70; Treasurer, Dr. G. L. Ullman of Albany, '7 I ; Historian, Dr. J no. Ben. Stonehouse of Albany,' 7 I ; Executive Con1.mittee, Drs. Albert Van Derveer, '63, Lorenzo Hale, '68, M. J. Lewi, '77, and C. B. Herrick, '8o. ~· VALEDICTORY. ROBERT BABCOCK, A. B., M.D., VALEDICTORIAN. [We had hoped to publish this address in full, but find our space too limited, hence we give only the valedictory proper.- ED.] UJzder,_{(raduates of tlze Albany Medical College: .f\\'ROM this time on, our association with you as students is at an end. Pleasant indeed will be the memory of our repeated n1.eetings in the class- room. Never again will we all assemble to listen to the instructions of our kind professors; but now it re1nains for you to notice where we have failed., and to profit by that knowledge. . Each year there is n1ore to grasp and 1nore to digest. Each year son1e new theory or discovery is made known, and it beco1nes your duty as well as ours to be- con1e cognizant of it. Your three years' curricnlnm will afford you n1ore instruction than training, and it is only the con1bination of the two eletnents that n1akes a con1plete education. The studies of the n1edical student are so crowded with n1atters ne'v and strange to him, and e1nbrace subjects of such a varied charac- ter and so infinite in nun1 ber, that the mind can afford lmt little activity to any faculty, save that of n1en1ory. Soon, ahna n1ater will set you adrift to complete your evolution alone. She will dub you \ Practitioner of lVIedicine,\ when yet you have the most to learn. All tha,t we can say : n11ke the n1o:)t of your advantages, and n1ay success crown all your efforts. Professors and officers of the Albany Medical Col-

!1', t I 'l:: l ' :1: I: ,: ~:. '1:' '' tl':lll' ·, I' I, , ' il'' lt 1 . I f I! ·:~-: ' ',, '' 102 THE CONCORDIENSIS. lege, it has devolved on 1ne to extend to you our ·Of the patients that crowd his waiting rooms, or even heartfelt gratitude for the kind 1nanner and earnest ' by his 1nere n1echanical skill. The time is already effort which you have displayed in .. in1parting to us past when any 1nan can hope to rise to be authority in your thoughts and knnwledge of the sCience of n1ed- any department of n1edical science through any royal icine and surgery. 'Ve, perhaps, as yet, cannot realize road. of social influence, political manipulation, or the 1nany obstacles which an instructor of this profes- even of personal channs. Those who are to be the sion has to encounter. hnposed upon and misrepre- leaders and guides of n1edical science for the corning sented as we are by those beings who practice quack- 1 generation 1nust earn their position by persistent, orig- ery, and are dishonest to the very core. K.nowing ! inal _investigation, an:J by faithfully recording their that the w~eakness and credulity of .some men is such . experience in the permanent literature of the day. It that they will employ an old .won1an, a witch or an : is the pen and not the lancet, the scholar and not the impostor, before a learned physician, how n1uch more n1echanic, that is to guide mi.d shape the scientific ought we to appreciate your endeavors to direct us in future of Atnerica. the only tru~ way by which we can practice the unpro- \Ve cannot give up \book learning,\ but n1ust rather tected science of medicine, and fit ourselves for the keep on with our systen1atic study, and require knowl- proper discharge of our duties. If, at times, we have edge not only of new facts, but of new views, as well. failed to act with proper decorun1 in the class roo1n, ' The reign of aln1a n1ater is beneficent. She has given believe us, it was not with the intention to show any ! us far n1ore than we can repay. Consequently we disrespect toward you or the subject under discussion. have a duty before us. 'Ve n1ust so perforn1 that Rest assured that every n1ember of the class of '84 ' duty, the foundation of which she has laid. vVe n1ust • sadly realizes the great loss to this college just prior to so acquit ourselves that our associates cannot scoff at this session ; deprived as you were of a rnan holding us. We must always be so faithful to her and our the position in all your n1inds and hearts which we fellow n1en that she will be proud to say, Illi nze[ · tnight all chose as our goal and endeavor to reach; fiber£ su12t. an instructor than whon1 there was no one 1nore enthusiastic, a physician than who1n there was no one more conscientious, a friend than who1n there was no one. more true ; we, the students of the class of '84, join with you in the college's loss, and thank you for filling that vacancy so acceptably. Arguing upon general principles, when a faculty as a whole is a poor one, the college suffers; when a very indifferent one, and deficient in their profession, the school is ruined. A faculty, for its own protection and perpetuation, n1ust of necessity have goocltnen, and these n1ust be in the 1najority. 'Ve are glad that this body appreciates the in1portance of securing the best obtainable talent: and it is a source of gratification that your efforts have been crowned with success. Classn1ates of the class of '84, to-night we have had bestowed on us the long coveted parchn1ent. \Ve are now bound to our ahna 1nater by a tie which never breaks, and we have a work to perfonn in order to add to her reputation as an institution of n1edicine. But we are happy to say that a new era is co1nn1enc- ing to dawn on the science of n1edicine. The tin1e will soon be past when any n1an can be oolstered up into scientific greatness, and held there by friendly stays and props. The tin1e will soon !Je past when the professional standing of any n1an will be solely or chiefly esti1nated by the carriages he drives, the dress GIVEN-A QUESTiON, TO FIND ITS SOLUTION .. W. B . .:\IELICK, A. B. M. D., ESSAYIST. There was never probably a time in the world's history, when CO'mpetition in any calling or pursuit was. so fierce and strong as now; never a time when suc- cess in n1ore than a 1noderate degree den1anded for i its attain1nent such a union of physical and intellect- ! ual qualities of alertness, prudence, persistence, bold- ness and decision, as in this latter half of the nine- teenth century. l\1en can no longer go at one leap 1 into etninent positions. \The world,\ says Etnerson, · \ is no longer clay but rather iron in the hands of its workers, and n1en have got to ha1n1ner out a position for themselves by steady and rugged blows.\ 1,he path of success, never a \prit-nrose path of dalliance,\ is steeper and thornier than ever, and Carlyle is right when he says that \the race of life has becon1e intense; the runners are treading upon each other's. ' heels. Woe be to hi1n who stops to tie his shoe strings.\ To a young man just crossing the threshold of stu- dent life and stepping out into the world of actual experience and stern reality, the prospect 1nay indeed seen1 dark and dispiriting. As he looks around in the great beehive of society, the feeling arises that there is

r l t t t r 't l- p· l,. ts n e \ lt 1- al :d te IS THE CONCORDIENSIS. IOJ surely no place for. hin1. Every department in the . great workshop seems filled with a con1ple1nent of hands and even if a vacant place for him could be found, a skilled workman has anticipated him. If I only could have lived a little earlier or a little later in the world's history, he thinks, I could have \got on\ · without difficulty, but not now. Success, always a coy maiden, is now made more coquettish by crowds of wooers, harder than ever to win, and what hope is there for me ? How can I gain success ? How can I best acco1n- plish my life work? These are questions which all of us no doubt have put to ourselves 1nore often than once. We cannot answer them in full. Time alone can solve the problem. A 1nan, starting out in life, has been co1npared to a ship of war leaving port under sealed orders. H.e knows not but as the ways I of Providence disclose to what ports he must go, or over what seas he 1nust sail. The dangers of the voy- ~ age, the sunken reefs or the storn1y capes, are un- known. No man has sailed. over exactly the sa1ne route that another has traversed. Like Coleridge's n1arin~r he is the .first that ever \burst into that lonely sea.\ sense in leaving things undone. The day of uni- versal scholars is past if it ever did exist. The range of human knowledge has increased so enorn1ously that no brain can grapple wit·h it, and the man who would know one thing well must have the courage to be ignorant of a thousand others. As with knowledge so with work; the n~an who would get along must single out his specialty and into that polJr the whole stream. of his activity, all the energies of his hand, eye, tongue and brain. \Broad culture, many sided- ness,\ says an acute writer, \are beautiful things to contemplate, but it is the narrow edged 1nan, the man of single and intense purpose who steel their souls against all things else that accomplish the hard work of the world, and who are in de1nand when hard work . is to be done.\ In proportion, we repeat, as a 1nan gives his attention to one subject will he succeed, and it may be asserted that every great 1nan has becon1e great, only by confining his powers to one particular channel. Exatnple after exan1ple could be brought forward to prove this assertion if proof were necessary to so palpable a fact. If we think of Harvey it is as the discoverer of the circu]ation of the blood, of Jenner as identified with the introduction of vaccina- , But though we cannot answer these questions in tion, of Chas. Bell as disclosing to us the whole _full, yet perhaps by studying and corn paring the n1echanism of the nervous syste1n. If we think of . methods and principles which have controlled those Watt, Stephenson, Arkwright Palissy, the steam en- men of the past, and which are now controlling the gine, the locon1otive, the spinning wheel, the discovery . n1en of the b~sy present, who have gained distinction, of enatnel, instantly spring to our 1ninds. Each is . renown and success, we 1nay find son1e clue which known by his own trade n1ark. will help us toward our desired end and solve the Exan1ples of versatile rnen on close exan1ination question. Read the lives of such men as Newton, will often be found to be deceptive. Take Lord Lyt- Dalton ·the chemist, Young the philosopher, Carlyle, ton for instance. It is said, and truly, that he attained Stevenson, Watf; Joseph Hume the surgeoh, John en1inence as a novelist, a dramatist and a poet ; that he Hunter, Herbert Spencer, and what will you find as wrote adn~irable essays and a historical work of con- the loadstone which has brought thetn to their de- siderable 111erit. It n1ust be observed, however, that sired positions. Sifting the grain and blowing away his e1ninence was achieved in a single department- the . chaff pf minor circurnstances, we believe the Literature. Though intin1ately associated with the _grand underlying principle is found in the words, political workings of the times, as a politician he ac- \ singleness of purpose.\ . Having found out their co1nplished nothing. In like n1anner, Michael Angelo work they pursued it with steadfastness and concen- was a great sculptor and painter, but both sc~lpture tration- of energy. and painting .are branches of the san1e art. It is true \How shall I succeed,\ asks the young man of that Leonardo De Vinci was poet and 1nusician as well to-day. We reply·- Having found your work, stick to i as painter; but to how few are his sonnets known, it. The first condition of success to-day when ·so ! while how lasting is his fan1e preserved in his \ Last 1nany things are clamoring for attention, is concentra- i Supper.\ Still, we do not deny that a few~ n1en have · tion, to bend all the energies to one point, and to : distinguished thetnselves by the vast scope of their at- go directly to that point, looking neither to the right' : tainments. Bacon seen1s to· have absorbed the whole nor to the left. It has been aptly ren1arked that a field of knowledge. Cicero was master of. logic, great deal of the wisdotn of a 111an is shown in leaving ethics, astronon1y, natural philosophy, besides bei11g things unknown, and a great deal of his practicJll well versed in geon1etry, tnusic, and all the other fine

',1'1'' \ ,, ' 104 THE CONCORDIENSIS. I arts. Danta was steeped in aJl the attainments of his 1 were not obvious to every observer that the scholar age, while in politics he played a prominent part. 1 gets no more than an inkling of all the sciences and Such men, though, are rare prodigies and in fact n1ay !languages. His time is divided among so n1any sub- be said to be prodigies simply by theirrarity. . . . i jects that patient m:d exhaustive inquiry is. impossible, But you say, \Show n1e a s~ccess~ul man and I will I and ~he gold leaf Is extende? over. so wide a spa~e show. you a thousand who are d·Isappornted.\ . Yes, you i that It becom:s al~1ost too thin to h1de the barrenness are nght, but why? Were the.\ fates\ a~mnst the1n? j beneath .. Thrs evil extends further and . pervades the Had they no control over the1r own actions? Talk : scholarship of our colleges and professional schools. with your bankrupt n.1e11 of business, your . .men of ! There the ambition of young 1nen is not to dive deep- n1ediocrity of talent and attailunent, and you will find 1 ly, but to skim the widest possible surface. The mind that they will all say-\ Alas, circumstances were 1 flutters from one topic to another and takes hold of against 1ne; I mn the victi1n of ill luck.\ We tell ~ none, hence it lives in an atlnosphere of dissipation you they are not. They are the victims of then1selves i which rapidly consumes its energies and exhausts its and of the tendencies of the tin1es. Not content freshness. with their work, off they go at a tangent to something 1 But it n1ay be asked, would not concentration upon else ; their vagrant fancies n1ake .. excursions in s.o many one object have a tendency towards dwarfing a 1nan's directions that they never get a step in advance until faculties, and so be as bad as the present condition of they at last ·aptly illustrate that hon1ely saying, ''Jack affairs? \ Is not,'' asks an energetic writer, \ the of all trades and master of none.\ '' 1\Iental dissipa- weaver in 1nany cases but an animated shuttle, the tion,\ or the \art\ of expanding inteHectual energies seamstress a living needle, _the laborer a spade that on a distracting 1nultiplicity of objects, instead of con- eats and sleeps? Does not the cletgy1nan too often fining them to one subject, making all others subservi- get a \white cloth\ ideal of the world with some ent will we think be found as the true cause of so twists of dyspepsia in it; does not the lawyer become ., many failures of life. Most ,men run uncertainly if -often a mere bundle of precepts, the physician an they have two goals, and our present age especially animated medicine case?\ Truly, every profession seems to have fallen into this great eviL The world and the world at large contains such dwarfed speci- is full of business and professional men who can do mens of humanity, but success is purchased too dear- many things, but do no one thing well Universality ly if to attain it a man must be a 1nere factor of is the ignis .fatuus which has allured and is alluring to society, a cog in some great machine bound to follow ruin many a promising mind. Think for a moment the revolution of the wheel. We have as much pity of the number of business men with whorn you are for the n 1 an of one idea as anyone, but because we. personally acquainted who are living examples of the urge men to be men of one aim, we do not urge them truth of this assertion. Not content with their legiti- to be n 1 en of one idea. In sticking to one thing, we mate branch and into that pouring their energies and do not mean that a man should be a mere lawyer, a money, they tnust be running railroads, dabbling in 1 nere doctor, a mere merchant or mechanic, and stocks, overseeing a n1ine here, be investing in this or nothing else. The concentration of energy and talent that concern there. \Nhen such men fail is it not the upon the object which is most important for us to common assent that they had \ too many irons in the secure implies no absolute disregard of every other. fire?\ Because a traveller presses forward towards the de- Not only 'does this desultoriness apply to individu- sired haven and refuses to wander from the direct als, but also enters in a certain degree into the ten- path, it by. no means implies that he shall have \no dencies of the age. Take our schools, for instance. eyes for the blossoms that shine by the wayside,\ \no Do not their curriculums include as rnany branches of ear for the music of the brook through the bracken.\ study as would occupy an average Tife time in only a Nothing is 1nore heautiful than to see a tnan wear his cursory survey? Greek and Latin, French and Ger- profession, art or trade, in an easy unconscious way. man, Inathernatics, astronotny, botany, music, paint- Wearing it as a soldier wears his ·sword which, once ing, multifarious English branches, ancient and laid aside the accomplished warrior gives no hint of modern history, physic'al science, all are spread having ever worn but which at any moment can be before astonished school chiidren as daily food. The buckled on and the enetny can be met. .. wonder is how one poor head can carry such a burden The question has been asked \ How shall I sue- of knowledge, or rather such would be the wonder if it ceed? \ The answer given, having found your work

ar b- ' .. ss p- of its of an on Cl- of ow we. we a to ect 110 no his be uc- THE CONCORDIENSTS. IOS give it your time and attentiolil, the whole force of your mind and talent. Many of you no doubt have visited son1e large factory in our city and there seen a n1achine intended to operate upon cold iron. With .. . all the tranquil ease of a common printing press it A very handsome meershau1n pipe, cigar l1older and · a pound of the best tobacco was presented to James Boorn, the janito_r, by the graduating class on the night of commence1nent, as a farewell gift. The following gentle1nen of the gradwating class were formerly n1e1nbers of Union College: J. P. Craig, A. B., F. S. Bloss, A. B.,. \V. C. Marse±ius, A. B., E. N. \Vright and C. F. Tin11nerman. The catalogue of '84 and '85 will style Albert Van Derveer, M.D., Ph.D., Professor of Surgery and Clini- cal Surgery; San1uel B. \Vard, M.D., Ph.D.~ Professor of Pathology, Practice, Clinical Medicine and Hygiene; Samuel R. Morrow, M.D., Lecturer Adjunct to the Chair of Surgery. exerts a force equal to a thousand tons, ·while each pressure of the ram expels large cubes out of the solid bar, with as much facility as one can break glass or earthenware. It will drive its steel finger through iron two inches thick without tlil.e slightest jar or fail- ure in the regularity of its action. What is the secret of this prodigious and constant power? It lies in the accumulated force of the balance wheel, which per- forming hundreds of revolutions in a minute, bears with crushing n101nentun1 upon. the steel punch. So concentration of purpose is the balance wheel of Bon. Henry R. Pierson thinks the present graduat- human life, crushing all obstacles, ren1oving all doubts · ing class \about as good and not 1nucb worse than and fears, and surely and steadily leading to the goal the former graduating classes. Your diplon1as are success, to the acquisition of a sound 1nind in a sound signed by the lnetnbers of the faculty, all the way body, to the complete culture of Inan's whole nature. from Dr. Van Derveer down to Harry Hun,\ gained COMMENCEMENT. THE exercises took place at Music Hall. The audience was a very large-many being obliged to stand- and an appreciative one. Ron. Henry R. Pierson, LL.D., addressed the graduating class in a very happy manner. Prizes were awarded as follows : the applause of '84. Resolutions of thanks were tendered Dr. John Swin- burne, by the graduating class, for the kindness received fron1 hin1 during their course in the A. J\L C. and the very interesting and instructive surgical clinics which they have been allowed to attend while here. Similar resolutions were also tendered Professor ~Terrill for his opthaln1oscopic class held during the tenn. To J. B. Craig, $5o, for best senior exa1nination; to W. B. Melick, zd, a pocket case of surgical instru- ments for second best, and to C. W. Geel and Charles FATHER TIME, in his steady onward n1arch, has F. Wolff $30 and $2o, respectively, for first and second again shifted ·the scenes of the daily occupations best junior exmninations. For best report of surgi<·al of our n1edical school. Another con1n1e11ce1nent has clinics, VV. F. Robinson and E. L. Angus received each con1e and gone and the 1nedical students of yesterday, a pocket case of surgical instrun1ents, which were the those of the class of '84, have blosson1ed into medical prizes offered by Profs. Van Derveer and Ward; for doctors to-day. And yet, while the cornforting and best report of eye and ear cli11ic, J. M. Falk received probably honorable degree of M. D. n1a y be affixed a Loring opthal1noscope, offered as a prize by Prof. 1 to our individual nan1es, it is to he hoped that the Merrill. The curators co1nplirnented the following proud nmne of 1nedical student n1ay be tlle honorable essays: \The Germ Theory,\ by E. F. Bronk, rank accorded to each in the several )?aths of our \Modern Clinical Research,\ by J. B. Craig, and\ Ni- chosen profession. trogen Co1npounds,\ by W. G. Hubbard. The Hos- So1ne, no doubt, will practice for the love of the pi tal appointlnents are : St. Peter's-Drs. J. A. Flynn, science, will endeavor to be of some seTvice to the J. V. Hennessy and W. B. Melick, 2d,; City Hospital cause in which they have enlisted and have it for their -Drs. R. Babcock and J. W. JCing. purpose to aid and relieve hu1nanity as opportunity COMMENCEMENT NOTES. pROFESSOR J. M. BIGELOW intends moving into the office, No. 3 Lancaster St., forn1erly occupied hy Professor Mosher. We understand he is to erect a new building on the corner of Hudson Ave. and South Pearl St., where his office now is. presents. Some n1ay pursue the profession for pecun- iary interests solely ; son1e for an occlrpation and business merely. The duties and responsibilities of a doctor 1nust not be too lightly esteen1ed; his life, if he is an earnest and conscientious n1an, must be a busy one, a laborious one, a tedious one and thankless one. Still;with all its varying phases and changing condi-

ro6 THE CONCORDIENSIS. tions there are many elements of encouragement and many bright promises for faithful endeavor. 'Eighty-four leaves the college with pleasant recol- lections. With all the many pleasant hours we have spent in college, with aU the trouble and anxiety which we have undergone, we have but kind feelings for all with who1n we have 1ningled during the three long years of our college course. We shall never meet again as students and professors and look with joy when the hour shall co1ne to leave the lecture room. Yet all this only brings to our mind· the thought- were we as ready to learn as our professors were to teach. But it is past and gone, and we can only add, as we pass out into active life, may our future be passed as pleasant! y as the three years while in A. M. C.? But we hope it will not seen1 presumption on our part to add, were the professors to hold more quizzes, n1ore clinics, also give the standing of each student on monthly examinations and thus save them the \terrible stage of persecution\ at the end, which they are required to pass through, which is worse than purgatory itself, and abolish the examination by the curators, all would unite in saying a good work has been done. W ELL, it is nearly finished! Our work on THE CoNCORDIENSIS, as editors of its medical . de- partment, representing the classes of '84, '85 and '86, is quite at an end. As to whether or not that work has been well done is not for us to say. We stand by the record ; yes, though it is true that so1ne things have crept into our departtnent which were better ]eft out, though we n1ay have slighted so1ne things or overlooked them altogether which should have re- ceived greater prominence ; still, . we stand by the record ! We say this, feeling quite keenly that we might have done better had we been wiser. How many others have had the same experience, when it was too everlastingly late to 1nake due reparation! If at any time our productions have not been polished, learned or profound, it has been because we ourselves were not polished, learned or profound, for we have given them our very best effort. We have had som.e valuable literary aid from various members of the dif- ferent classes ;. Mr. McFarlane, the 'managing editor, has been both courteous and kind to us. For all this we can only give these gentlemen our honest thanks. As to whether or not this relationship between the different departmentf; of the University can be con- tinued, it is not our fortune to know. To us (' 85) it has been both pleasant and profitable-not fi11ancially, but otherwise. However, we are not a candidate for reelection. That we have had many more readers than subscribers, we are well aware, and, for the benefit of those who may follow us, we wi_ll say that the mere reading of a college paper does not give it support; it 1nust be subscribed to as well, and one copy should not be 1nade to answer for more than thirteen students, for so much handling is liable to soil it and render it unfit for binding. Albany College of Pharmacy. ALUMNI MEETING. THE annual meeting of the alumni association of the College of Pharn1acy was held Tuesday · afternoon, Feb. 26, at 3 o'clock. About thirty gradu- ates were present. After the transaction of the regu- lar business of the 1neeting, the election of officers for the ensuing year was held. The following was the ticket elected : President, Leonard H. Wheeler ; first vice-presid.ent, Orel T. Larkin; second vice-president, George Boucher; secretary, Frank M. Cle1nent; treas- · urer, Frank J. Smith; historian, Frank Richardson; executive co1nn1itee, Frank Warren, Louis Sautter, Jr., Albert R. Griffith. WE are pleased to be· able to give our readers the following valedictory, delivered on commence- ment evening by Mr. Frank Richardson : Gentleme1't of the Facttlt_y and Ladies and Getztle1nen: We have gathered this evening to take part in the third annual commencment of the Albany College of Pharmacy, and those who have followed the college in its course will note with pleasure the increase in attendance which is evidence of its extending popu- larity. And it is needless to say that the establishment of this college has filled a want long felt in this section. The success which has attended its growth is largely due to the untiring efforts of the gentlemen who cotn- pose the faculty, who, by their devoted attention, their zeal in the work, and their unifonn kindness, have won for themselves the lasting regard of each and every student. Under their careful guidance we have been enabled to ,overcotne obstacles that ~o our unpracticed eyes seemed ahnost insurmountable. We have been led to drink at the fountain of their knowledge, and by so doing have been refreshed and encouraged to pro- ceed on the long and rugged road that leads to wisdon~. The one ~in1 of the faculty has been to give us the benefit of their long years of experience, to

t y . . ' e . . e e y 11 d THE CONCORDIENSIS. 107 But old recollections are active to-day And I can do naught but regret them. Though the present be pleasant and joyous and gay, make for us a firn1 foundation on which we are to rear a .superstructure, the character of which will be depend- ent on the individual endeavors of each of us. And And promising well for the morrow, now, gentlemen, as we are about to sever the bonds 1 I love to look back on the months passed a way, that have so long bound us to you, in behalf of the Embalming my by-gones in sorrow.\ class of '84, I extend to you hearty thanks for your Th\ . . . k . . d . . . . . · IS evening mar s a turning po1nt, an to-morrow earnest labors for our advancement, and It IS our s1n- · . .c h b 1 . h h k . . . . · we .go 10rt to . att e wit .. t e un nown. \1\he world cere w1sh that you 1nay long d1rect the course of . 11 b. fi h h . . 1 f 1 b d . . . . IS a · e ore us, w ere to c oose our pace o a or, an Instruction In the sev.eral branches you so ably repre- p 'd . .d , M .d . . . · rov1 ence our gu1 e. . ay our gu1 e prove an sent, and that the Albany College of Pharmacy, under k' dl d 1 J h 1 b ffi . In y one an· eao w ere we may a or most e ect- your careful guidance, may hold a front rank among 11 fi , h ... d f h . .c • d th t h . 11 f h ua Y or t e goo · o t e pro1ess1on an our own e eac 1ng co· eges o p armacy. h d · . onor an prospenty. Classmates: Although we have ,finished our course I 1 · I 1 .d 1 1 . n cone us1on wou express to t1e c ass my here, we must not consider ourselves finished pharma- · f f tl h £ d · h · cists and lay aside our books as useful for reference apprecia Ion ° ' 1 ~ onh~r con .erre · Alndc. oohsin~ me · . as your representative t IS evening. n In t e 1uture only, but rather have them as every day co1npanions, h th ht h h d w en my oug s revert to t e appy ays spent not only that we 1nay advance ourselves, but .that we h th d f M . 11 . · · d . ere, e wor so oore WI· nse to 1n1n : may also worth1ly represent our alma mater. Continual advance is being made in pharn1acy and its allied branches, and if we would be successful, it is necessary to keep abreast of the progress of the day. This can be aqcomplished only by continued and well directed study, for \Errors like straws, upon the surface :flow, He who would search for pearls must dive below.\ Here we have been taught to apply our minds to study, to systematize our work and th.us be enabled to accornplish the best results. Here we have acquired a love of know ledge and investigation of the wonders of nature that should follow us through life and 1nake us aspire to do our mite towards the advancement of phannaceutical knowledge. The age of ignorance and superstition has passed, and an era of education and enlighten1nent has dawn- ed. \We are,\ says a recent writer, ,,, in the midst of a revolution in phannacy that will either sink us to the level of irresponsible distributors of poisonous and dangerous elements, or lift us in public estimation to the position we richly deserve through education, liability and responsibility.\ The tin1.e is ?oon coining when the people will come to their senses and demand that 11one but graduates of pharmacy or registered pharmacists shall be entitled to practice their profes- sion on humanity. As we pause and look back on the busy months we have passed here as fellow students, many pleasant memories rise to our minds and we are loth to think that to-1norrow we go forth to new :fields, perhaps never to meet again. \ Le •, by-gones be by-gones, they foolishly say, And bid me be wise and forget them, \ No, never shall my soul forget, The friends I found so cordial hearted. Dear shall be the day we met, And dear the day we parted.\ THE third annual commencement exercises of the Albany College of Pharmacy were held Feb. 26, in Alu1nni Hall of the Medical College. The follow- ing was the programme of exercises : Music. Prayer-Rev. Wm. S. Smart. Address by the President of the faculty, Prof. A. B. H nested, M.D. Music . Conferring degrees by the President, Joseph W. Russell, Esq. Music. Address to the graduates-Edward P. Waterbury, Ph. D., President State Normal School. Music. Valedictory-Frank Richardson. Music. Presentation of prizes by the secretary of the faculty. Music.· The hall was filled to overflowing before the hour of eight had arrived, and 1nany were unable to gain admission. Prof. Huested's address was full of sound comn1on sense, which will always be remembered by the graduating class. The degree of Ph. G. was then conferred upon the following members of the graduating class: George W. Burr, Frank M. Clement, Edward J. Griffith, J urian vV. Jones, Orrel T. Larkin, Fred- erick N eudorf, Jr., Josiah Pardee, Frank Richardson, William T. Stafford, De Baum Van Aken, and Frank B. Warren. Two n1embers of the class are obliged to wait until they have completed their term of appren- ticeship before they can receive their diplon1as.

108 THE CONCORDIENSIS . After some very- pleasing 1nusic by the orchestra, Prof. Waterbury delivered the address to the gradua- ting class. It proved an entertaining and instructive discourse. The speaker paid a touching tribute to the late Dr. Mosher, who1n every one remembers with love and respect. At the close .of the address Prof. Waterbury was greeted with hearty applause. Mr. Frank Richardson delivered the valedictory, which will be found in another column. The look of anxiety deepened upon the usually cheerful faces of the graduates as the tin1e for the presentati?n of prizes approached. The pre- sentation was gracefully done by Prof. Tucker, secre- tary of the faculty. The following prizes were award- . ed: To Frank Richardson, $so, for passing the best final exan1ination in all branches; to G. V. Dillen- beck, a prhe of$ 30, for the best graduating thesis;· to Richard H. Roth, a prize of $2o, for the greatest pr0- ficiency in the laboratory course ; to Frederick N eu- ,. dorf, a prescription balance and weights, for passing the best exarninatio1i. in pharn1acy, and toW. T. H. Tipping, a prize of $2 5 for passing the best general exmnination at the close of the junior year. After conferring the degree of Ph. G. upon A. B. . I that it was nothing more than C I 2, H 2 2, 0 I r and a. i little molasses, and further remarked that he did n't : fear drinking his but had no 1nore room for it, and . asked the waiter to stand it aside until the 1norning. , Well, the wants of the inner 1nan having been satisfied,.' ' the next in order (with the aid of black coffee and cigars) were toasts, speeches, etc. The speeches and toasts were all \ impro1nptu,\ with the e~ception of the one given by Mr. Vedder. Dr. Bigelow, in a smiling manner, delivered a few remarks, which was. well received. The most eloquent speech of the; evening was that delivered by Mr. Phillips, '82. He · stately and serenely was the shining star ; he shone so brightly that a hack was the only being which could possibly convey him to the depot. I-Ie was seen sev~ eral tirnes during the course of the evening passing \ shekels\ into the waiter's coat pocket, and after each one of Mr. P.'s donations the servant in attend- ance was noticed returning with a fresh bottle. The other donations of this section were Warner, Benjmnin,. and Sautter, Jr. Toasts were given by Dr. Huested, Mr. Chas. H. Gaus, Mr. L. Sautter, and last, with a few very encouraging words, fro1n Prof. Tucker, whose Huested and Louis Sautter, the exercises of the third j toast are always appreciated, the assemblage adjourned to meet again in. one year. annual con1mencement of the Albany College of Phar- \ ==-====-=-================ macy were brought to a close by the benediction The Inter-Collegiate Athletic Association held its delivered by Dr. Dean, of All Saints' Cathedral. annual business 1neeting at the Fifth Avenue Hotel, New York, Saturday afternoon, Feb. 23. Delegates BANQUET. AT the close of the exercises at Alu1nni Hall, the members of the association, with the faculty and invited guests, prcceeded to the Delavan House, where a sumptuous feast awaited thetn. The roo1n was decorated in a most exquisite 1nanner, and a glance (only a single glance) at the table was as beneficial to one's sto1nach as \getting away\ with a regular College of :Pharrnacy boarding house dinner. But alas ! the glance did n't satisfy all. At the head of the table were seated Mr. Waterbury, Prof. Tucker and. Mr. Estcourt (Mr. E. never gets left when there is an alumni supper). The three classes were represented at the supper. The only 111e1nber of the class of '82 being Mr. Phil- lips, who was very quiet, but kept the waiter very busy. The bill o~ f~re was rather powerful and 1nany of the boys were turning them (the bill of fare card) inside out, looking for the skeleton and c~oss- bones after having read on the first page \Poisson.\ But the \mildest\ thing on the programme was Mr. Wheeler and his Ro1nan punch. Mr. Larkin remarked were present from twelve colleges. Several mnend- n1ents were made to the association constitution, the list of events for the next tneeting was adopted, the titne of the next gmnes nmned for May, and the place to be decided by the executive committee. The resolutions recently adopted by Harvard, Princeton , and other colleges, laying restrictions upon the actions of the athletic, foot ball, base ball, and other associa- tions, were, after reports fro1n the delegates expressive of the opinions of the students of their respective colleges upon the, subject, unanimously rejected. The delegates were requested to lay the action of the association before the different faculties and endeavor to secure the rejection of the resolutions in question. \ The petition of Union College for re-instaten1ent was. · unani1nously granted, the name of Brown College was dropped frotn the list, and officers were chosen for the ensuing year. Messrs. G. F. Allison, '84, and J. Z .. R. Rratt, '86, were the delegates from Union. The Williams students have had three attempts at cane rushes. Now a policeman patrols the grounds until the fellows are in the anns of Morpheus . .

