l. t l ,. L l f e . () i ,_ g :r l- ,e 1,. i, a ;e d ts. ~1, es i- In, ns .a- ve ve he he ror )n. ras. ras :he z. . at 1ds The Cor1cordiensis. VoL VII. UNION UNIVERSITY, FRIDAY, APRIL 25, I884. No.7· THE CONCORDIENSIS, PUBLISHED MONTHLY, BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY. BOARD OF EDITORS: JOHN F. DELANEY3 EDITOR-IN-CHIEF. ASSOCIATE EDITORS. UNION CoLLEGE: R. R. BENEDICT, '84. PuTNAM CADY, '85. T. c. LAWLER, '86. LAw ScHOoL: B. C. SLoAN. J. T. MoREY, '8s. ]. ]. McSoRLY, '8s. E. E VEEDER, '86. F. E. SMITH. MEDICAL CoLLEGE: C. F. TIMMERMAN, '84. ]. A. CuTTER, '86. S. E. ARMSTRONG, '85. ScHooL oF PHARMACY: I. P. EsTCOURT. A. McFARLANE, Busi?tess Manag-e.r. All communications should be addressed to P. 0. Box g6o. Articles requested from the Alumni. TERMS.-One Dollar and a-half per year, in advance. Remit to the order of Business Manager. ----- - ----- - ------ --- - --- -- --- -- ·---------- Entered at tke Sckenectady, N. Y., Post-Office as secontl-class matter. T H~ junior class have histology this tenn instead of zoology. Although designed more especially for students of medicine, still, under the instruction of Prof. Hailes, it bids fair to be an exceedingly interest- ing study, and no doubt will prove beneficial to all interested, whether they have the 1nedical profession in view or not. Two hours per week are occupied in class recitations and lectures, and four hours in the laboratory in 1nicroscopic analysis. J N o~r first (October) nutnber we complained of the pnce of books here and had reference, although it was not openly so stated, to the prices at Barhydt's book store. Mr. Barhydt co1nplains to us that this editorial has done him injustice and hann. We still believe that the main fact of that editorial was correct, viz., that he was at the tin1e 1nentioned charging too tnuch for books. The reason of this, as Mr. Barhydt n1aintains, was that he held to the fixed and what n1ight be called the legal price set by the Board of Trade, while other dealers, desirous of attracting cus- tom, cut the prices. VvT e have nothing to do with the reasons. We simply stated the facts as we found the1n. Mr. Barhydt, however, assures us that these troubles are now done with, and that he is selling books as cheap as any other dealer. As this gentle- men is an advertiser in THE CoNCORDIENSIS, we have thought it worth the while to state the case in full out of justice to the paper and Mr. Barhydt. , THERE will be noticed in our columns a call to the class of '54 to attend a reunion at the con1ing con11nencement. This is a step in the right ' direction, and similar movements by other classes are to be desired and encouraged. These reunions are a source of pleasure to the individual 1nen who participate in then1. They recall the good old past, and once more renew the friendships that have been so long interrupted. But n1ore than this, they are beneficial to our altna mater. Here we are back in the old place- we who have been away for thirty years. It is pleasant. For a man gets to like a place where he has lived a student's life for four years. Now we are growing old and gouty, and our pockets .. are phlethoric while our alma mater is not over wealthy. Yes, it is well that all the old classes should, at stated ti1nes, 1neet in reunion here. Well for then1; well for ahna 1nater. Let the other classes follow the excellent exan1ple of '54· CREMATION night showed one thing plainly- that to retain any self-respect the n1en of this college 1nust keep \townies\ and outsiders fro1n any of the contests that 1nay arise between classes. Enough rowd yistn will be displayed even then when class is opposed to class and son1e low 1nen will in every class be found who will not scruple to employ the most cowardly 1neans of attack. But when the offensive party is strengthened by the miserable vulgus with which Schenectady is abundantly supplied, the rowdy elen1ent is altogether too much in the n1ajority. Every 1nan who then participates in the n1elee must feel himself disgraced. and even those students who have no part in the affair 1nust feel ashan1ed that in his college such an occurrence is possible as that of

IIO THE CONCORDIENSIS. cremation night. Morever, we believe the better sen- tin1ent of this college to be against such disgra<;:eful performances as n1ud-throwing, egging, and all that like; these practices are cowardly and low. Let the 1nen who ~o feel exert then1selves and the practice the prize for the chan1pionship go from Union. If the 1neasures of which rumor speaks are taken, there is a good chance yet for us to 1nake the . season a success, and to n1ake a good struggle for the prize. will cease. Up to this time the feeling between cl::tsses T .. HE Blair educational bill which passed the United has been kindly and cordial. A few such scenes as : States Senate on the 7th, has given rise to con- those of cren1ation night and the day of the freshn1en [ siderable discussion. Many think it unwarranted on parade will go far to destroy the good relations. ! the part of the general governrnent to n1eddle in affairs Besides, if the sophrnores will attack the fr~slzmen let : which it is claimed belong solely to the different states, then1 c_:lo it squarely- do it in such a way that the ; while many n1ore think it e1ninently proper that Con- freshn1en can see whon1 they are fighting. Don't get gress should act as it did. in a crowd and thro\v · 111 issiles of every description. , . Overlooking the constitutionality of the n1easure, we \Ve do not believe in cane-rushes, salting, or anything I think on the whole that it is a beneficial enactment. of that sort, for we do not think that the relations of . J\!Iany of the Southern States that were i1npoverished the classes should be hostile. But a rush is r)referable ! , by the late war could n1ake but little advancen1ent, to such low squabbles as seen 1 to have taken the place 1 until very recently, in public education; but, by the of rushes here. If there lnust be war- if you 111 ust I aid of this appropriation fron1 the surplus in the fight -let the fight be a decent one, and let the war : national treasury they will be able to dethrone illiter- be carried on according to the code of civilized j acy aln1ost wholly, and n1ake the black man intelligent nations. enough to avoid the snares of the shrewd Yankee adventurer who often took advantage of his credulity I T must be plain that if Union is to succeed in base · about election time. ball, this spring, actives 1neas~res to this end are : If the black population of this section could be necessary. Hobart and HanJilton will have strong ! educated up to a proper understanding of their true nines in the field, and the n1anage1nent of these nines : privileges and duties under the law, the n1uch-vexed will not lack financial support. For anything known ; \Southern question\ would soon be elin1inated fro1n to the contrary all the other colleges (except Union) i our politics, and Northern people would feel that the are just as detepnined as Hobart or Hamilton to win, : fe\v n1illions used in acco1nplishing this had not been and are earnestly preparing for the conte~t. :Here J spent vainly. In the far vVest also the atnount of illit- little or nothing has been done at this writing, and : eracy is alarming, on account of the country being so matters, especially financial, do not look promising. j sparsely settled; but with the aid now projected it is It is true our college has always been noted for great · likely to be greatly 1nodified. The education of the self-confidence for holding off in a cornatose condition i 1nasses is necessary in. a govern1nent like ours, and, in- while others were preparing for the race, but finally : deed, if it were n1ade compulsory throughout the land rousing itself and with a bound securing the prize. : our institutions would be the safer for it. All the old settlers (otherwise known as seniors) tell of the years before when just as now base ball during . THE STUDENT WORLD. the winter and early spring secn1ed dead, as if there I THE first nun1ber of a paper called the College would be no nine, but suddenly the boys \braced . World, so1newhat novel in its object was issued . got out their nine, and defeated other college nines from Nashville, Tenn., in January last. . To quote that had been in training all winter. That is all very : fro1n the prospectus in this nmnber-\ What the well. But that it is not a rule to be depended on is · Lumberman is to the lu1nber trade, what the Field and evidenced by the fact that generally the men who win Farm. is to the planter and producer, what the Texas races are the 1nen who have trained best. Besides, Siftings is to the lover of 1nirth, and the CoJnmercial there is danger that this sleep 1nay last too long, Traveler is to the drummer, we propose to 1nake the thereby become too sound, and that even the heat of Student World to the great studet1t body of the May or June will not rouse us. \Ve have confidence, country.\ This will be seen to be a great undertak- however, in the ability of our men to \ brace.\ If we 1 ing and we fear an impractic::1 ble one. We admire had not, we would feel that base ball would be a the enterprise and pluck shown in the founding of a failure this spring. But it will not. We must not let paper with so good an object. w·e hope we .are 1nis-

t 1 1 1 1 J s e :1 e e d -el .e .e .. ... - ·e a :;- • THE CONCORDIENSIS. III . i taken in regard to its success. The paper has cor- 1 indigenous and distinctive, made its appearance. To respondents at most of the principal universities and i A.merfca it was the beginning of a long and glorious colleges and will have the latest news from widely supremacy i11 letters. separated institutions as well as essays and discussions An enticing :field for ambition stretched before the on topics interesting to the s.tudent body. We heartily longing eyes of young men who loved literature and commend_ this paper to the attention and support of believed in their own ability to reap a rich harvest as all students. the result of literary toil. Many attempts were made, HUMOR AND ROMANCE IN AMERICAN LITER- ATURE, AS ILLUSTRATED BY IRVING AND HAWTHORNE. but one after :another the aspirants to fame sank into oblivion without foreign, and almost without home, recognition. All their efforts, and all the results of those efforts, were ignored by the British press and British literary 1nen and scholars, who to a contempt BY J. MONTGOMERY MosHER. for colonists added an ahnost personal hostility to A MERICAN literature has been 1narked by the American progress and American institutions. Talent same course of progressive development that had failed, and nothing but genius could hope for sue- has characterized the rapid growth of all of the insti- cess where so 111uch was detnanded. A generation tutions of our nation since it became a self-created, had gone down, not without a struggle, into oblivion ; self-sustaining government. All writing prior to our their efforts bad been; so far as they were concerned, first war with Englan& shows the influence of the times in vain; but boys were growing into n1en. and circumstances amid which it was born. During In the .next literary generation, there appeared in the \ Colonial period \ the infant literature was 1nostly every branch of letters those whose names have be- an exponent of the sectarian sentiment and feeling of come synonyn1s for their various styles. The British the different churches which then controlled the scat- press, startled frotn ·its contemptuous silence, grudg- tered colonies. That which was not historical was in- ingly gave to these the praise which the excellence of spired or in the main controlled by the rigid discipline their productions extorted from hostile critics. In the of the Puritans. Little fault can be found with our same year that our nation was born by its separation from first settlers for not having devoted tnore of their ener- Great Britain, came into existence Washington Irving, gies to letters; no doubt they possessed the intellect named for th.e father of his country and destined to which, properly trained, makes great writers; but they becotne the father of its literat~re. With no ancestor had little opportunity and sn1all resour~es ; means for noted in letters to whom to attribute his taste for writ- the trans1nission of ideas were few, and libraries were ing, he had comparative! y little literary training and rare and restricted. They were forced to struggle day . 1 no literary inheritance to fonn hhn ; and yet the fore~ and ni~ht for the neces~aries of li~e i~' the~r new home. I n1ost of .our a~thors, he be~ame not only the creat~r D~rntg the\ Revolutionary penod, wh1ch embraced I of Amencan. ht~r.ature, but 1~ fonn and substance h1s the time between the outbreak of our first great and first representative work takes rank atnong the best successful struggle and the completion of the war of productions of the English-speaking peoples. As a 1812, circurnstances were much as already described, boy, reticent and retiring; as a tnan, genial and gen- and almost nothing worthy of note was written except tie, it seems a wonder that he should be so keen a works pertaining to theology and patriotism, if we ex- dissector of kuman nature, so quick diviner to detect cept the curious and interesting poetn of Jonathan the springs ·of human e1notion and human action; Trumbull, which was imitative rather than original in that he should be able at his own will so to sway his fonn, as is indicated by its natne. fellow men as to tnove his readers to merry laughter The desolation of war had left little to a people who or to n1ournfuJ tears. This almost inexplicable genius possessed almost nothing before. Those noble pa- fonned a style which is a cotnbination of the practical triots who survived the conflicts could look forward and worldly 1norality of Addison, with the gentle, only to an ilnmediate period of hardship, but the san1e attractive and sentin1ental hun1or of Steele-. a style indomitable spirit that had saved thetn still protnpted which tnay have been influenced by his adtniration in them ; slowly but surely the greatest power on earth I his boyhood of these essayists. His sketches and began to assume shape and to fonn the character · works of fiction n1ay clearly be considered as hutnor- which marked its progress and characterizes its pres- ous wntmgs. His hun1or in form indicates a scholarly ent. With the early signs of a better future, literature, tnind and polished intellect; in quality it shows a

II2 THE CONCORDIENSIS. heart pern1eated with kindly love. As we contem- King's Bridge.'' And final:ry, Seth Handaside, pro;. platively study the mental characteristics of Irving, it prietor of the ·Columbian Hotel, announced that to re- dawns upon us that he was just the creator who should pay himself for board and lodging, he intended to have evolved these works. He was known for his I dispose of a \very curious kind of written book,\ generosity, benevolence and kindly hospitality ; he ~hich the old man had ·reft. The alleged facts set was charmiflg in conversation, and even n1ore fascina- ! forth in this history were gravely accepted by some of ting as a listener; he was ever prepared to suffer an- I the more intelligent and better educated as truthful, noyance rather than it should be inflicted on others ; i but many quite lost their tempers at the accounts of his knowledge was co~prehensive, and of that which i unusual vigor and surprising activity attri~uted to their . he knew he was certmn; he was cultured as the result ; worthy, steady and sturdy ancestors. Irving was com- of foreign travel ; he was polished from attrition with I pelled to bow to the storm and insert, in the second his fellow 1nen. and following editions, a propitiatory preface. The Worthy of especial notice, as exhibiting the keen later generation are as proud of their family names sense of the ridiculous with which Irving was possess- ; when appearing in this histor.v as though it were a ed, is the manner in which he introduced to the pub- I book of heraldry. lie the· celebrated work which established his reputa- Irving's biographies are noted for their accuracy, tion. The excitement incident upon the war of I 8 I 2 and exhibit an unusual amount of painstaking research. had subsided sufficiently to allow the venerable, me- While never claitning to be an historian, his work in thodical and ponderous burghers of New York and that department of composition bore evidences of the the shores of the Hudson to gravitate back into their same n1aster 1nind that inspired his pen in his more pristine sedateness, when these stolid worthies were 1 natural and more congenial writings. again thrown into quite an unusual state of animation I In all of his works his tendency toward r11ild humor by the publication of a book entitled the \History of \ and gentle wit predominates; he exhibits great power New York from the Beginning of the World to the of invention and sacrifices nothing to his attractive style. End of the Dutch Dynasty,\ and the rather unusually His faculty of concentration enabled him to accom- expressed title excited dim suspicions of the rerr1ark- plish well whatever he undertook, to picture the sed- able story to follow. A burlesque upon a hand- ous or humorous with great vividness and power. All book of New Y ark which had just been published, his efforts display the endless fertility of his mental this history aroused the inhabitants fro1n their usual resources. The common faults in burlesqae composi- state of torpid tranquility and threw them into a tion-undue extravagance of statement and vulgarity condition of unwonted, unpleasant and indignant ex- of expression-are avoided with sensitive delicacy. citement. Critics acknowledged the work to be of His culture accounts for the moderation of his satire great merit and originality, and its unusual style called and the silnplicity of his humor. His n1ore .animated forth well deserved approbation fro1n those who, not aud elega11t prose frequently falls into 1netre-a not disabled by the unnatural excitement due to excessive uncotnmon evidence that rhythm is the natural utter- indulgence in sauer-kraut and roused from the lethar- ance of the most refined poetical senti1nent One of gic slumbers due to long pipes, possessed sufficient the highly attractive and felicitous passages in the activity of intellect and equanilnity of temper to fonn Knickerbocker preserves at intervals a peTfect metre correct judgment. Before it was issued from the for severallines~in illustration the following : press, preparations quite in character with its advent \The gallant warrior starts fron1 soft repose, from were made. There appeared in the Evening Post an golden visions and voluptuous ease, where in the inquiry for a \small elderly gentleman, dressed in an dulcet, 'piping ti1nes of peace ' he sought sweet solace old black coat and cocked hat, by the nan1e of Knick- after all his toils. No m.ore in beauty's siren lap re- erbocker.\ He was said to have disappeared frotn clined, he weaves fair garla.nds for his lady's brows; no the Columbian Hotel, in Mulberry street, and son1e n1ore entwines with flowers his shining sword, nor doubts were expressed as to the soundness of his through the livelong, lazy su1nmer's day chants forth 1nind. Shortly after this, in the same paper, was pub- his love-sick soul in madrigals. To manhood roused, lished a letter purporting to be from a \Traveler he spurns the an1orous flute; doffs from his brawny who stated that a man answering the description given back the robe of peace, and clothes his pampered had been seen \by the passengers of the Albany stage lin1bs in panoply of steel. O'er his dark brow, where I resting hi1nself by the side of the road, a little above 1 late the tnyrtle waved, where wanton roses breathed

1 1 l t ![ e e a e e :- 0 ~r h l, y d ·e d THE 'CONCORDIENSIS. 113 enervate love, he rears the beaming casque and nod- , his villain shall be fixed, he thoroughly digests every ding plume; grasps the bright shield, and shakes the 1 idea offered, and finally constructs a suprising picture ponderous lance; or mounts with eager pride his fiery 1 of one who might have steed, and burns for deeds of glorious chivalry.\ 1 \Stolen the livery of the court of Heaven Passing from Irving to Hawthorne is like departing I To serve the devil in.\ from the brightness of a June day in Knickerbocker, , \ The Lord of Braithwaite Hall shall be a wretched, New York, and entering upon the chilly sadness of Nov- dissipated, dishonorable fellow; the estate shall be ember in the sombre halls of the Seven~gabled House. involved by his debts, and shall be all but done up. Throughout the whole do1nain of ron.1ance there has ; * * * Some marked character must be given to this been no writer more . widely known than Nathaniel ; fellow, as if he were a fiend, a man sold to the devil, Hawthorne; his power of expression is wonderful, he I a magician, a poison-breather, a thug, a pirate, a pick- ' breaths life into inanimate things, and holds the read- 1 pocket; something that will look strange and outre in er's attention by a singular fascination and subtlety. 1 that high position; he rnust have picturesque character- Born, educated and living in New England, he in- ! istics, of course ; ~someth.ing that fixes strange and in- 1 herited and imbibed the accuracy and shrewdness that 1 congrous necessities upon him, making him miserable are always attributed to the genuine Yankee. With under a show of all possible glory. * * * A mur- his keen observation, astonishing men1ory and method, derer?- 't won't do at all. A Mahon1etan?- pish l he has left a series .of stories that are so powerful in * * * Something most abhorent to the English he expression and original in plot as to transport the might be, as, for instance, a partaker in the massacres helpless reader into the reahn of the unknown, and of India; a man bedaubed all over with the blood of make hitn familiarly at home with the weird and the his countrymen. * * * What natural horror is impossible. His ambition was to be an author, and to there? A n1onkey? A Frankenstein? A man of that end he prepared hin1self. Studious and thought- straw? A man without a heart, made by machinery? ful in his earliest youth, he acquired the faculty of - one who has to win.d himself up in order to go insight, of reading the heart, so that to his keen vision through the day? * * * The Doctor, before he men were transparent, and human motives, passions left England, had contrived a plot of which this 1nan is and desires, lay obvious. Reading can1e to hitn, when the victim? How? He has been poisoned by a ~ child, as an instinct; he never could remember ac- Bologna sausage, and is being gnawed away by an quiring the art. His early bias for letters was shown atom at a tilne. He shall need a young life every five by the remark, when a child, '· How would it look to years to renew his own. * * * A man with see Nathaniel Hawthorne's works on the shelf?'' With ! a mortal disease?- a leprosy?- a eunuch?- a cork- 1 persistency undiminished by failures, he wrote and 1 leg?- a golden touch ? - a dead hand?- a false wrote again, until he achieved sotnething worthy of nose ? - a glass eye ? * * * '' publication. Once, when asked how he acquired his Each actor is fonned i}l this con1prehensive 1nanner, style, he said, \It is the result of a great deal of and the notes are nearly as vohnninous as the coin- practice. It is a desire to tell the sin1ple truth as J pleted work would be. honestly and vividly as one can.\ 1 Strong in contrast sparkles the cheerful, breezy, Like Dickens, his characters were all suggested by : morning humor of Irving, with the twilight, realistic I life; but his plots were the results of deep, original, : dread that moans through the gathering evening gloo1n and complex thought. It is the good fortune of those 1 of Hawthorne. Where the forn1er entices by a merry who admire Hawthorne and wonder at his skill, to I lightness, the latter binds by his mesmeric influence to have a look into his n1ental \work-shop.\ At the a strained and painful attention. time of his death, he had ahnost finished his notes on With rippling laughter the mind depicts the rotund \Dr. Grimshaw's Secret,\ a new book, and these notes , form of Oloffe, the Dreamer, his pipe gone out, snor- have recently been published. There are two sets of i ing by his boat, w bile in his vision he sees hhnself with I the1n, one being a rough outline of conversation, the 1 broad-botto1ned, leathern-breeched, protruding stern, other being his meditations in forming the characters I roosting in the high tree-top, gazing upon the towers of his story.· A sin1ple instance will show the amount of ' and turrets, spires and riel~, ornamented gables of the I attention bestowed upon the most uni1nportant features 1 New York that was to be, rising through the far-float- of a novel, and yet of consequence, as united, they : ing sn1oke of the lighted dream-pipe ! vVith in1agina- rnake the whole. I:1 doubt as to how the character of 1 tion wrought to highest tension, an1id the palpitating I

I. II4 THE CO,NCORDIENSIS. horrors of the te1npestuous night, atnid cloudS- ancl darkness and reverberating thunder, there flashes out upon the scared sense, the great A, n1ar~ed in lightning blaze upon the blackness, lighting up with hideous glare, the lovely and worn victitn of sin and shame, the proud and broken and remorseful man, the heaven- ly loveliness of the innocent little child ; all grouped: upon the scaffold dedicated to crhne and its punish.- ment, the tnaster picture of a 1naster's mind, told with a pencil, that can paint all shades of human feeling, all depths of hu1nan guilt and wretchedness and love. The '' unutterable wisdotn '' and . silent sagacity of Wouter Van· Twiller excite an a1nused smile, while the ~ name alone of Maule is associated with son1e super- ' natural, unearthly ghoul, that fills the mind with a shuddering horror. Wonderfully alike and wonderfully unlike are these two Inen: great in intellect, great in tenderness, great in love to their fellow men,- each has a fatne that is secure, for each has done a work no other n1an has ever done ; each has left his itnprint on the language of all the English speaking peoples -an ilnpress so deep and lasting that it shall endure while English is a spoken tongue. When English shall become a dead and classic language, as 1nen now read the Frogs of Aristophanes, so shal11nen then read Knickerbocker's History of New York ; as men now study the Medea of Euripides, then shall they con the Scarlet Letter. IN RESPONSE TO \OUR REPUTATION.\ A. B. BISHOP. You asked for a toast and you asked for a song- The theme was immense and the time was not long- But a happy thought came, ere I'd scarcely begun, To make my toast rhyme and thus join two in one- Sort of Siamese twins of my poor muse's travail, (This figure of speech don't try to unravel), But listen intent to a brief lucubration, On that glorious theme, \Eighty-Five's Reputation.\ . And I '11 not trace it out with a tedious recital Of our bold freshman deeds, and our bolder requital Of sophomore wrongs, wreaked upon the next class, Nor our later-won laurels, so let them all pass. But we '11 work the thing out by a mode mathematic, And clinch our conclusion with \Method Socratic:\ That is, to a.:;k questions that favor our view, So long as they're answered by me or by you. So now, brother juniors, your pardon, God wot, I muc;t ask, if your algebra's wholly forgot; Bu.t perhaps you'll remember a theorem or two, That will help us establish another that's new; Which, nevertheless, you will swear is quite true, Ere half my unique demonstration is through. MODUS 1\!ATHEMATICUS. Take a quantity finite-we '11 say \ Eighty-four\- (A name that strikes fear to our spirits no more, And I think I may add, as we now \ have the floor,\ And can say what we please, did it ever of yore? For the seniors by this time, in far Amsterdam, Are doubtless all drunk, so we don't care- what we say.} Take this quantity finite, I say, and then fix On an absolute zero-we '11 take\ Eighty-Six\- Or an infinitesimal wiH do quite as well Say the faculty small, who we wish were in~Europe or Bermuda. Then, dividing this quantity finite, I've set, By our infinitesimal, or zero, you'll get That most incomprehensible thing dead or 'live, Infinity--this represeRts \ Eighty-five.\ MODUS SOCRATICUS. What class, I may ask, has less reason to blush For the deeds of the past? Freshman year had its \rush And no other class, as to-night they sit 'round At the gay, festal board, and thei.r praises resound, Can say that, or would say it, if we were around To hear them applauding their speeches profound. Our\ plug,hat parade,\ and our gory\ cremation,\ And more I omit from this hurried narration; But just ask who, before we had lost our McCaul- Ey and Anable, beat us in playing base ball? 'From a record like this springs our good \Reputation.\ Now my theme I have reached; with a briefexhortation I close. When another bright year rolls around, And one more winter's snow shall have covered the ground Of this ancient and venerable temple of lore, It will be our loved home, (or our prison), no more. But wherever we wander, whatever we do, To the memories of youth let us ever be true, And keep in our hearts two good wishes alive: For thee, Alma Mater, and thee, Eighty-Five! AN INCIDENT·IN THE MOUNTAINS. My guide and I had been in camp about a week, during which time we had busied ourselves in \fixing things up,\ in setting buoys for lake trout, and a bear trap, as we intended to remain several months. We had killed only a few partridges. Our dogs had ... not yet arrived, and it being too early in the season to hunt with hounJs, we had not atte1npted to drive. we were encamped on one of those beautiful sheets of water so numerous in the Adirondack region. The pond was about three. miles in length, but divided nearly in the 1niddle by points fro1n either side, leaving a passage between of a little over a qua~ter of a tnile. This part of the pond was called the narrows. Blue Mountain lay to the southwest, and on a clear day old White Face could be seen. We had pitched our tent on one of these points, on a breezy knoll, free from 111osquitoes, while our arrangements for cooking were back of this near a spring. My guide and myself were the only carnpers in the neighborhood. j We had been ... out one 1norning looking after our 1 traps near the head of the pond, and fro1n the numer- 1 ous deer signs we detennined to try a fire hunt. It is called so by the hunters, who, knowing the habit of the deer of coining down to the water a:£ter dark in the warn1 evenings of su1nmer to feed on the tender leaves and sten1s of the pond-lilly, take advantage of this· to approach in a boat and shoot then1 by the ligb we locl for arr fiX€ fro gu ba lo: m bE la~ th . 1D tl s1 d l€ t 1 1

THE CONCORDIENSIS. IIS light of a \jack.\ The retnainder of the afternoon I The wonderful skill with the paddle of some of the we spent in rigging a jack. For this we used a hem- Adirondack guides was here displayed. Swiftly and lock-bark box, open at one side and lined with tin cans silently we glided on. The splashing ceased and for reflectors. Our light was a tallow candle. This presently in the light of the jack, cot more than six arrangetnent, of which we were· quite proud, was firrnly rods away, stood what I supposed to be a good sized fixed on a pole in the bow of our canoe. ~oe, with head and neck raised, intently watching us. About nine o'clock that evening, well protected It was a beautiful sight but I did not dwell on it long. from the dew and mosquitoes, we took our places, the Cautiously raising n1y gun· I fired. 'The light went out guide in the stern at the paddle and I in the bow just and I was knocked backward by the recoil into the back of the jack with a double-barreled shot gun bottom of the boat, and we were only saved from an loaded with buck-shot. We had. waited until the upset by the ever ready paddle of the guide. moon had nearly set, and never shall I forget the We were in the shadow of the trees and in almost beauty of the scene .. as we pushe~ off ~nt~ the sil~nt total darkness. My shot was followed by thundering lake- the ~erfect q~tet, the 11 1 0° 11 JUSt dipping behind ·echoes fro1n all sides, and a hoot owl in a tree near by ~he mou.ntmns, turn1ng the s~ndy beach of ou: shore : gave the most demoniac ye11 I ever heard, which was Into a sll:er ban~ and throwing the glooin~ pines of t answered everywhere by loons, herons and owls. The the o~her Into an 1nky blackness, t~e refl.ection of the ' deer made a headlong rush for the shore, but a quick, sta:s In the glassy waters, and the r:d ghmmer ~f the sharp blat told us that it had been hit. Hastily blaz- dying embers of our camp. fire dancing 011 the n~ples . ing away with the second barrel the deer fell, but was left by our ca~oe. The stillness was, however, relieved i u:p and away in an instant and went crashing up the by the occasional .splash of a playful trout and the hillside through underbrush and trees. Disregarding lonely and oppressive cry of a loon or hoot owl. We wet clothes, we jumped out into the water a bout knee- had cross~d the pond and coasted along the shore for deep. We hastily pulled the canoe up, lighted a Ian- about a 1n1le, when, from a half drowse, caused by a tern and started after the wounded deer. This we hearty supper and t!1e quietness of all aro~nd,, I was could easily do, as it had left a broad trail of broken aroused by a ~unch 1,~ the b~ck ;~om the gmde s pad- bushes, blood and torn up 1noss. vVe had gone about ~le and a warning to :ook ahve. We were approach- a hundred yards and were about to .give up the search 1ng a long stretch of hlly pads, and cl~se ahead, n~ar until n1orning, when we suddenly found lying dead a tn~ edge of the pads,. I could . see a lar~e grayis~ plun1p yearling buck, with short stumpy horns still in ObJect. Carefully cocktng my piece, I waited unhl the velvet. Here we skinned and dressed hin1 and within easy range and was about to fire, when, with a started back for camp, bearing the skin and saddle, most unearthly skwak and splash, a. huge gray heron reaching there about eleven o'clock. All and all, I rose and flapped awkwardly out of sight. To say that was very well satisfied with Iny first fire hunt. I was startled, would hardly express it. As for the guide, his suppressed laughter shook the boat. I was now thoroughly awake and resolved to remain so. Fron1 this we proceeded as before, paddling a short distance then stopping to listen, occasionally surpris- ing a flock of ducks, who would stare stupidly at our light, swimming in circles and gradually approaching until within a few yards, then taking wing. Frequent- ly a musk-rat would swim into the circle of light, flap his tail about a few tin1es and then as suddenly disap- pear. At length we rounded a stna11. point and stopped to listen. We could hear far back in the cove close to the shore the splash of so1ne ani1nal n1aking its way through the pads. Now ca1ne the tnost exciting part of the hunt and that requiring most skill, namely, to approach near enough without alarming the deer. The slightest sound on the water and in the D. A BIT OF PHILOSOPHY. Y OU have often heard men say: \I don't care what such a n1an thinks of me,\ referring to some one who has expressed an opinion unfavorable to the speak- er. :But you seldom hear a 1nan speak so of an adtnirer, however base he 1nay be. We are inclined to estin1ate ! men as Gil Bias was regarded by the bishop. He is I to n1e a good critic whose criticisn1 is favorable. But . when the opinion is not flattering to n1y vanity I per- suade n1yself that it has no foundation and that the I defect does not exist save in the eye of hi1n who sees. ' Surely not in that which is seen. How n1uch do we 1 in our likes and dislikes consider n1en through the stillness of the night can be heard a long distance n1ediun1 of our own egotism.

. ,. I, ·,. ! 'I ' !I t! ., I it )I ,. . , :I li l1 ,, 1: ,. , . . , '· r· 1: il l; ' ;; 1 16 THE CONCORDIENSIS. TO JOLLY LIVING. This poor Master Pindar's lines Won't be praised much by divines I will warrant; For to laud a life misspent, Full of love, wine, merriment, Is too arrant. Why teach to me full-s.oundin.g rules, Why restrictions without number? They are but pedantry of schools; These no fort esprit should cumber. Eut rather urge me oft enjoy Old Lycaeus' cup so soothing, With Cypris' golden locks to toy, Press her lips while tresses smoothing. Those glorious locks that crown her brow, Sheen as corn-fields tossed by breezes! How ardent lips press out each vow To hug Love's chains! His bondage pleases. Let wine beguile the time away : See it in the beaker sparkle ! Let tender song mtr cares allay Till the lights above all darkle. Do thou delight thyself, my soul, Life 's too short for care and sighing; For who knows aught beyond its goal? Seize the present hour while flying. -REUBEN. REUNION OF THE CLASS OF '54 .. T • HE progrmn of exercises arranged for the occasion · we will announce in the next issue of THE CoN- CORDIENSIS. At present we simply summon the n1em- bers of the class to be present at this re-union. A copy of THE CoNCORDIENSIS is sent to each member of the class whose residence is known, and we request each one promptly to acknowledge the receipt there- of, and to communicate to the committee any facts relative to themselves or other members of the class, as may aid the co1nmittee in the discharge of their work. We publish below, at the request of one of its 1nem~ bers, a list of the n1e1nbers of the Class of 1854, with their residences, so far as they are known to be living, and their residences are ascertained. We send a copy of THE CoNCORDIENSIS to each one of these Alu1nni, and would be pleased to have them subscribe for our paper. We shall, next month, pub- lish such infonnation as we can obtain as to the individual me1nbers of this class, whose thirtieth anniversary of graduation and class re-union occurs at next commencement. We shall also give the pro- ceedings which 1nay occur at the class meeting. 01nitting those who are known to be deceased, the list is as follows, viz : NAMES. Rodney C. Abell, Orrnanzo Allen, Erwin Baker, Loran G. Baldwin, Miles Beach, John I. Bennett, S. L. C. Bredin, W. R. Brandon, H. D. Brown, James Burt, John H. Burtis, Reuben B. Burton, Orlo W. Chapman, Geo. W. Chapman, John H. Combs, Amos R. Cornwell, Joseph M. Craig, John Cromlish, James E. Flag, Philip Furbeck, Peter R. Furbeck, Wolcott M. Griswold, John D. Hall, E. H. Heacock, N. P. Henderson, Albert L. King, Norman l{lein, Daniel Marvin, Jr., Prosper Miller, James Y. Mitchell, William D. Murphy, Charles D. Nott, Eliphalet N ott, Jr., Henry Nott, George H. Noyes, Isaac Pendleton, E. H. Peterson, Wm. H. Plumb, Seth P. Pratt, Joseph A. Prindle, Clinton G. Reynolds, Edwin W. Rice, John V. Rice, Luther M. Simon, Theodore Snyder, Anthony W. Street, Philander G. Valentine, John V. Van~ame, Daniel Waterbury, Daniel M. Westfall, Benj. H. Williams, Alexander Wilson, ' N.H. Wood, M. vV. Woodworth, Austen A. Yates, Sidney P. York, RESIDENCES. West Haven, Vt. A ~· M' USLin, . Inn . Oscaloosa, Iowa. New York City. Chicago, Ill. Butler, Pa. Fort Adams, Miss. Albert Lea, Minn. Brooklyn, N. Y. New York. Binghampton, N. Y, Ballston Spa, N.Y. Lexington, Minn. Albion, Wis. New Orleans, La. New York City. Little Falls, N. J. Gloversville, N.Y. San Francisco, Cal. Vera Cruz, Cal. New Hamburg, N.Y. Chicago, Ill. Troy, N.Y. Friendship, N. Y. Lancaster, Penn. Albany, N. Y. Washington, N.J. Brooklyn, N.Y. Kingston, N.Y. Boston, Mass. Sioux City, Iowa. McHenry, Ill. New York City. Great Barrington, Mass. Oswego, N. Y. Orange, N. J. Philadelphia, Penn. Chester, Penn. Washington, D. C. Kinderhook, N. Y. Council Bluffs, Iowa. St. Louis, Mo. Margaritesville, N. Y. Cambridge, N. Y. Buffalo, N.Y. Mineral Point, Wis. Leavenworth, Ran. Burlington, W.Va. Schenectady, N. Y. Monroe, Mich.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. . ~ Comrades, classtnates of 30 years ago ! When our class said their regretful farewells in I854, a resolution was passed appointing a reunion of the class in thirty years. The period has ne.arly passed ! The under- signed were appointed a con1mittee at last commence- ment, by those members of the class then present, to notify the class and arrange for this re-union. It has been suggested as appropriate, that Dr. Foster, one of . our revered professors, who is still bearing the burdens of his office. might with propriety be asked to preside at this re-union, and call upon the n1embers of the class who will then be present to recite the lesson which they have learned during these thirty years 1 Classmates, con1e to this re-union ! Co1ne with your wives and children, and renew the sacred me:tn- ories of our college days. AusTIN A. YATES, PETER R. FURBECK, Class Committee. All communications 1nay be addressed to Dr. P. R. Fur beck, Gloversville, N. Y. Schenectady, April 5, z884. \THE OLD WOODEN ROCKER.\ REVISED BY ROY, '85. Y ES, it stood in the corner, With its back to the wall; I remember it distinctly As I went there to call. That \old wooden rocker,\ With room enough for two By squeezing just a little, As of course we ought to do. CHORUS: As we sat in that chair We would rock, rock, rock, Disturbed not at all By the old brass clock. Many times have we sat there Till the \ wee sma' hours \ had come, When we parted at the door-way With a quiet \yum-yum.\ If that chair could but speak, My! what tales it would tell, How her little brother Johnnie, Who now I hope 's in - well, How he hid 'neath that rocker, And he heard all we did say, And the next day thereafter Did give us cold away.-Cho. In that ~'old wooden rocker\ We no longer both are found, For she weighs a plump two-hundred If she weighs a single pound; And those little rascals seven, 'Neath that ancient rocker crawl, As it stands in its glory, In the corner by the wall.- Cko. OBITUARY. THOMAS L. M' CLUMPHA. T . HE first victi1n claimed by \Grim Death\ fro1n the class of eighty-five is Thomas L. McClu1npha, who died at St. Augustine, Fla., Apr. 9, 1884.{ Mr. Mc- Clumpha has been absent from college the past year on account of ill health, and his disease being of a pulmonary nature it was thought that the cli1nate of the \ sunny South \ would prove beneficial. Such, however, no.t proving to be case, and realizing only too clearly that his earthly career was rapidly drawing to a close, he determined to return to his home in the North and die a1nong the loved ones who had tender- ly reared hi1n. In this, too, he was doon1ed to disap- ! pointn1ent. Having n1ade preparations for departure, : he received word that his mother was on her way to meet hin1, and consequently he waited to accompany her hon1e. The evening of his death, feeling no worse than usual, he ate his supper and retired to rest. Hearing some one enter the building, he asked his attendant if it was his mother, and being answered in the negative, raised his hand to his head and in1mediately breathed his last. Owing to some mistake his mother did not reach his bedside until several hours after his death) The body was sent for interment to the home of his parents, in Port Jackson, N. Y. The burial took place April 14. CEight members of his class, at the request of his friends, acted as paU bearers. As a student, Mr. McClun1pha was remarkal;>ly apt, entering college at the age of sixteen. By his genial manners and excellent scholarship he had won the love and esteem of his classn1ates, and had health and life been spared would, undoubtedly, have proved an honor to his ahna tnater) LOCALS. A PRIL. Delightful spring. The birds are singing 1nerrily. The Campus is dry and the grass is starting. '87 has one new recruit, Chas. Frank Bridge, of Albany. It is said that a number of the Inen are coming out I in knee breeches.

118 . THE CONCORDIENSIS. Base ball? Spring Athletics ? Where is the Athletic Association? Paid your subscription to THE CoNCORDIENSIS? How 1nuch did you give to the base ball fund? In the election of college trustees the alumni will be allowed to vote by letter. The n1en begin to congregate on the Campus and enjoy the rays of the sun. There is a rutnor abroad that President Potter has declined to accept the presidency of Hobart .. All are longing for the beau6ful days of spring to return and reveal again the surface of the carnpus. Everyone seems satisfied with the class suppers. It was wonderful the scarcity of students the next day on the hill. V. andy is training the men for Mott Haven, and it is understood that he will institute some over country runs and hare and hounds just as soon as the running is good. Pach Brothers, the college photographers, have an- nounced that they are prepared to take photographs of students. The price is reasonable and they should be patronized. Cabinets are $4.50 per doz. 'fhe position of overseer of the college farn1 has been awarded to the son of the late overseer. If the son possesses any of the characteristics of his father, the appointment will 1neet with the approval of the boys. Prof Perkins has been absent for several days at- tending a murder trial. The Prof. was sun1moned to analyze· the stomach of the deceased person, as death by poison was suspected. The analysis confinned the suspicion. A delegation fro1n the junior class attended the We were glad to see our old friend Prof. Price, a funeral of Thotnas L. McClutnpha, at Amsterdmn, on few days ago, taking a drive through the college the 14th instant. \ grounds. Wann sunshine and balmy air were evidently A liberal price will be paid for March and May, 1 relished by hin1, and we trust that under their influence 188r, and February and March, 1883, nurnbers of he may soon regain perfect health. THE CoNCORDIENSIS. In imitation of the students, the boys of the Higher There is a rumor that some of the men on last year's . English department of Union School indulged in a nine may be laid on the shelf in favor of new n1en who \ cane. rush and egg pelting. They carried their sport prove better players. . into the public streets, and in the n1elee one young Nothing to any extent has been done in base ball : lady was struck and her clothing badly stneared with so far. The men who will constitute the nine, how- eggs. ever, are pretty well known. It is rumored that the business editor of THE CoN- CORDIENSIS was seen not long ago lying insensible in front of North College. \Cpon investigation it was found that one of the students had actually paid him his subscription for the paper, and. he was cotnpletely overcon1e. It is thought he will recover. During the beaver--hat parade of the freshn1en sev- eral citizens were struck with eggs. It is needless to say that their temper was severely tested. One of the knowing ones clai1ns to have found scriptural authority for the expression \To shoot off the rnouth,\ in the 2 2d Psalm, seventh verse. Mr. Griffis invited the seniors to a reception given at his church Thursday evening April 10. A pleasant evening was passed by those who accepted. The sophomores are to study Chaucer this term under Tutor Anable. The recitations will undoubted- ly be made as interesting as those of last term. We copy the following fro1n a Boston paper : \There is no engine of destruction known to humani- ty to-day doing Inore damage than the popular little cigarette,\ says a New York athlete. Prof. Staley has been giving the seniors son1e useful and interesting lectures on sewerage. The professor ought to take the citizens of Schenectady and try to convince thetn of the need of sewers. Philip and Heatley, '84, and probably Fletcher, '86' will represent this college at Mott Haven. Heatley will run in the 100 yds. and Philip in the 2 20 yds., and perhaps 1onger distances. Fletcher will enter in the jutnping. The men are now in training, and we have good hopes of their success. Money rnust, however, be subscribed to pay expenses. Subscribe at once. At a n1eeting of Union College graduates, at New- burgh, a resolution was adopted setting forth the diffi- culties of the government of the college were caused mainly by a lack of interest mnong the alutnni and de- claring the alurnni should choose a n1ajority of the board of trustees, and calling upon the alutnni to 1neet at a central point and confer, as to the best n1ethod to pron1ote the interests of the college. ..

.. THE CONCORDIENSIS. 119 I Dr. Cop pee has been delivering some interesting lee- · the So phs. consider it their duty to cause the freshmen tures on ''The Uses and Abuses of the English Lan- : as n1uch trouble as possible. The examination in guage.\ He began by tracing the sourceofthe language, i algebra took place Friday, March 28, and the san1e and then took up the various influences to which it has i night the freshmen intended to consign it to the been subjected. His illustrations were humorous and \ flames. The Sophs. had also made preparation for well chosen. The last of this series of lectures was the \fun\ and were anxiously awaiting the time to given in the chapel on the 15th. On the 17th he start. It came at last, and the freshmen in full-dress delivered a lecture on Shakespeare's Hamlet. These marched out of their roo1ns and around to the chapel, lectures have been largely attended and were well ap- where th.ey were to fonn. On the chapel steps they preciated. 1 were C@mpelled to halt, and then the work of the Prof. Hollis has not been detailed to New York \ So phs. began. Paper bags filled with red paint were city as expected, and will remain at Union College for ' showered upon then'l until they were co1npletely cov- the present. The high state of perfection to which he ered an¢1. the chapel walls protected thetn from further has brought his department here ought to n1ake col- I harrn. The line being fonned, they started out on I 1. ege authorities lo~t~ to have him withdrawn by the r, their tnarch, frightened. but determined. At the blue governtnent; and 1t IS hoped that an arrangen1ent can · gate a scuffle ensued w1th the Sophs. It was of short be made whereby his services may be retained. He duration, however, owing to the interference of the is now in Minneapolis, attending to so1ne private 1nat- i police. No serious interruption occurred after this, I . . ters, and before con1ing ho1ne will visit Ann Harbor I and having procured the coffin they n1arched on, ter- and other localities of interest. , rified occasionally by a fire-cracker thrown into their At the opening of the spring term the freshmen midst or by sticks thrown by the crowd of hoodlums took advantage of their right to carry canes by making which followed. All this was an unpleasant reminder a plug-hat parade. As is the custom on such occa- to them of what might be expected. When they sions, scarcely one-half of the men were in line. can1e at length to the college grounds again they were The beavers worn were of artistic pattern and 1nany of ; dismayed to find that the Sophs. had\ snaked\ their them probably adorned the heads of their great grand- wood and tar. However, they hastily gathered a few sires. The column started from north college at sticks and lighted the pyre. The spot chosen for the eleven o'clock and marched to the \blue gate,\ which ceremony was very muddy, and they were constantly was tightly wired. The wires were loosened after a · pelted with mud until their clothes were completely short halt and the parade marched into Union street. covered and their eyes filled. The fire also was in dis- Here they were greeted by a volley of eggs from the posed to burn, and being unable to stand the storm Sophs. The Sophs. unfortunately carried no canes, 1 any longer, they fell in and marched away to their and were compelled to retreat before the advancing : rooms. After the freshmen were all quietly sleeping, freshmen. All along their line of march the freshmen the Sophs. celebrated their orgies over the burning were vigorously pelted with eggs, which destroyed the wood and tar whic\1 they had \snaked.\ symmetry of their hats and clothing. 'iVhenever they got sight of a lone sophon1ore they in11nediately made a rush for him and belabored hin1 with their cudgels. The colun\ln marched on with various incidents, until it ca1ne to the corner of Lafayette and Liberty streets. Here the freshmen were again exasperated by a volley of eggs and n1ade a rush for the Sophs. In the fracas which followed, a brick was thrown by a \ townie \ and E. C. M. Catneron was knocked down and his scalp slightly cut. Nothing worthy of note took place after this, and they continued their tnarch to the college grounds, followed by a large crowd of hoodlun1s and \Character in S1noking,'' is the title of an excellent article recently published. The writer judges his n1en by the kind of tobacco they smoke. All like good tobacco, but all are not judges. It is only the even tetnpered, level-headed, tastefully inclined n1an that takes pains to tnake a selection. He gets to be very particular about purity and flavor. . But when he strikes a tobacco like Blackwell's Durhan1 Long Cut, he is tenacious of his prize, and intolerant of aU infer- citizens. Ever since some former class established the custon1 of cretnating their algebra, the .other classes have deetned it their duty to follow.. For the satne reason ior tobaccos. WHAT HAPPENETH IN THE COLLEGE WORLD. H ARVARD.-The bicycle club will hold an open race n1eeting on May 3 r. ' All the crews row daily on the river. The Hesty , Pudding Club gave theatricals for the benefit of the

I20 THE CONCORDIENSIS. boat club at the University Club theatre, New York, on April 3 and 4· The library is to be lighted by electricity. The Lanzpoon threatens to stop publication if its subscriptions are not paid up at once. When Harvard College first opened its doors the I entire number of students was three. ,Qf these, two \ were seniors and the other was a freshrnan. In one of Dr. Holmes' Harvard poems occurs this verse : And who were on the catalogue \Vhen college was begun? Two nephews of the president And the professor's son : Lord ! how the seniors knocked about That freshman class of one. DARTMOUTH.-Dartrnouth has been readmitted into the Inter-collegiate League. . l\t a meeting of the Base Ball Association the stu- dents were very enthusiastic and subscribed over $1,200 to the support of the nine. The Opera Company, composed entirely of stu- dents, sang in several of the neighboring towns during the latter part of last term. Two new prizes of forty dollars each have been offered for the best essays on \Free Trade\ and \ Protection.\ AMHERST.-The faculty have refused to take any action in reference to the \ Regulations of the Inter- collegiate Sports.\ The seniors lately gave a dramatic entertainment, which consisted of \ She Stoops to Conquer.\ The female parts were well taken, and the play, upon the whole, smoothly acted. By the will of the late L. J. Knowles, of Worcester, the art gallery receives a bequest of f>s,ooo. The gymnasium will cost $gs,ooo. The reading roo1n has been closed on account of lack of use. CoLUMBIA.-Base ball js on the boom. The prac- ticing is well attended, and progresses finely. The \ Columbiad\ appeared so1ne time ago, and has been highly praised by different college journals. The base ball nine will probably play its games upon the Polo grounds. The alumni dinner held at Delmonico's was highly enjoyed by the large number of banqueters present . • The Acta thinks the freshman crew superior to the 'Varsity. The Glee Club's season was a success artistically another year. The town's people seemed determined to drive us to Adan1s.''-The Argo .. The college Polo Club has won and lost a game with the North Ada1ns Club. YALE.-There are two University eights in training. An illustrated paper will soon be started. Nine men have been initiated into the new chapter of Phi .Beta K~ppa, Trinity. - Chas. D. Warner has recently be.en delivering to the college some lectures on the relations of \ Life to Literature.\ GENERAL COLLEGE NEWS. More than a quarter of the students at German Universities are Americans. There are one hundred and four college graduates · in the present House of Representatives . Dartmouth has received during the past thtee years $250,000. Prof. Frank L. Beard, of Syracuse University, is soon to take charge of the pictorial departn1ent of the Judge. The Bowdoin crew, which lately made the fastest time on record, will represent the college at the Inter- collegiate race at Saratoga, July 4· Cornell's gymnasium is lighted by electricity, so that students can exercise in the evening. Oxford has decided to grant women the same examination as is given to men. The average salary of college professors in the United States is $1,5 30. The New York E7Jenz'ng Post now has regular cor- respondents at Yale, Princeton, Williams, Lafayette, Amherst, Cornell and Harvard. The University of Vermont has lately received a gift of $I I 0,000. The standard of admission to Rutger's has been raised ten per cent. Princeton's nine received $4,6oo from its ga1nes last season. Matthew Arnold holjs a professorship at Cambridge University. Marriage increases the papa-lation of the country. -Merchant Tra'lJeler. and financially. I WILLIAMS.-\ Billiard roo1ns have been defeated for I \Do you suppose eating angel cake will make an angel of me ? \ asked a seraphic young lady of the worldly young man. \ I've no doubt it will,\ he answered, \ jf you only eat enough of it.\ Then she giggled, and said \Why 1 \-Lowell Citizen. - \'

THE CONCORDIENSIS. I2I Albany Law School. THE OOMMENCENENT ORATORS. sINCE our last issue the· cotnmencement orators have been appointed by the faculty. The appointments were well received by the class; and aJ:though some ambitions were crushed and hopes shattered, the result could hardly have been more satisfactory. The names ~s announced were those of Messrs. :Pratt, Barnes, McNamara and Garland. From these gentlemen the class was allowed to select the valedic- torian, ·and, upon a ballot being taken, Philip R. Barnes was declared the choice of the class for that position. Philip R. Barnes is a native of Albany, but in early life his parents tnoved to Highland Park, Illinois, and afterward to Osh Kosh, Wis. His education was pur- sued in the schoo1s of Osh K.osh and l(enosha, and he graduated with high honors from the Wisconsin State Normal School in the class of r 88 2. Mr. Barnes has been a hard working, quiet and eminently sue- . cessful student during his course in the Law School. His selection as valedictorian by his fellow students attests the esteem in which he is held. Willian1 F. McNamara was born at Corning, N.Y., on the I 7th day of June, 1859· He pursued his edu- cation in the public schools of Corning and graduated at the Corning Free Academy in r875, being valedic- torian of his class. Since that time Mr. McNamara has been engaged in various business enterprises, was for two years connected with the Eln1ira Sunday Tele- gram, and has taken an active part in politics. His legal studies were pursued in the office of Spencer & Mills, at Corning, until his entrance at the Law School in September last. His course here has been marked for his unremit- ting research and untiring zeal in obtaining a thorough knowledge of the principles of law. He is charac- terized by that restless ambition which will lead him to a well-earned success in his profession. George E. Garland was born on the island of West- port, Lincoln county, Maine, on the first day of 1 August in the year 1863. Shortly after his birth his I parents re1noved to Waterville, Maine, where he has since resided. His early education was acquired in the public schools of Waterville, and he prepared for college at the W atervil1e Classical Institute. At the ag~ of fourteen years he entered Colby University, where he graduated in I 88 2 with high honors and received the degree of A. B. He itnrnediately regis- tered as a law student in the office of Williatn T. Haines, a graduate of the Albany Law School, class of 1877. Garland entered the Law School in September last, and his course throughout has been distinguished by thorough work. He wiH leave the school with the well wishes· of many friends, and we anticipate for him a bright future. John L. Pratt, Jr., is a resident of Buskirk's Bridge, and it is rumored is a graduate of Cornell. After con- siderable delay, the gentlemen has infonned us that he is too modest to furnish us any facts upon which we might base our reference to him ; and as we are too modest to make reference to his course at the Law School, this must close our attempt at biography. OUR CLASS MEETINGS. BY a disinterPsted looker-on, our class meetings · would be pronounced a success viewed as a farce. After waiting until a quorum is present, the n1eeting is opened, minutes of last tneeting are read, after sufficient discussion they are approved, the president then states the object of the meeting, a speech is made ending in a motion, 1notion is perhaps seconded, then several speeches which seldom throw any light on the subject, motion to an1end, more speeches, tnotion seconded, n1ore speeches, cries of \ question,\ called to order, more speeches, motion to amend amend- 111ent, more speeches, motion seconded, n1ore speeches, cries of \ question,\ called to order, speeches, n1otion to lay on table, speeches, 1notion lost, finally the amendment to the amendtnent is brought to a vote, before vote is completed there is a tnotion to adjourn, declared out of order, in tones of thunder through the startled air is heard a voice, which sounds like that of an Essex county wolf, exclaiming, \ A 1notion to ad- journ is always in order.\ The gavel smites the president's desk, until \the most profoundest decorum doth prevail.\ . The an1en~ments are finally voted down, the original motion is put and lost, and all this acco1nplished after a two hours debate. When the class meetings are properly conducted, there will be a larger attendance and more interest n1anifested, and not until then. LOCALS. WHEN is B. going to pay S. for that stew? We hear they are going to settle it upon another basis. • One n1an was satisfied with his bargain the other night. According to his own story, he gained fifty dollars of experience for nothing.

122 'THE CONCORDIENSIS. How does Buss feel since his defeat by R. Embody is the champion wrestler of the class of '84. Chas. H. Mills, Esq., secretary of. the A1utnni Asso- ciation, has removed his office to room 44, 'Tweddle building, where he will be glad to see any members of the class ·at their earliest convenience. . Where does Bob live? Is he boarding with Ste b- b .. ? lllS. If you want an intellectual feast Ask Mac. where will you go ? Prof. Smith has removed his office to the Tweddle · · building, for the express purpose of being where the students may call without walking up stairs. Bob has a predilection for French. We understand Tripp and Etnbody are also taking private lessons. It is always well when it comes your own treat to take nothing yourself, it saves a besides giving one a good reputation. turn to nickle, It is understood that a work of great literary merit will shortly be issued by a distinguished member of the class, entitled \Gifford on the Importance of Matrimonial Alliances.\ Stebbins gave a few friends a spread the other night, and the president of the class and chairman of the executive committee are said to have enjoyed it very much, but the editor didn't quite understand it. As a party of children were passing by the Law School, on the 4th inst., they innocently asked the janitor which way the boiler had gone? He told them there was no explosion, it was simply J. C. arguing his case. How ignorant son1e people are. The men1bers of a committee- three in number- were walking down town the other day, and, at the invitation of one of the number, they entered a Twed- dle Hall store, where the aforesaid gentlemen '' set up\ Yankee doodles, three for ten cents. He was surprised,. and perhaps chagrined, when they refused his kindness and bought ten cent cigars. BRIEFS. T HE end draweth nigh. Now that the election and commencement appointments are settled, there is very little excite- ment among the students. Prof. Spoor is now lecturing on \ Practice Under the Code,\ and Prof. Sn1ith lectures on \Common Law Pleading.\ We were recently favored with a visit from Geo. E. Mor.se. Morse was looking well and quite· happy, having recently been admitted to the bar in the fourth departn1ent. \\''V. E. Cole, for sometitne connected with the school, is about to take unto himself a life partner. He has our congratulations and h~arty wishes of \ lUUCh joy.\ 'It is with no slight degree of satisfaction that we hear Judge Gould laid down as a great legal authority. We thought so all the time. We have heard of only one in the class so far who is in favor of making \every man his own lawyer\ through the Field Code. Does the gentleman wish to acquire another profession? CLIPPINGS. NOT ON THE ROSTER. J F I love one hour most 'mongst the few That no overstocked rosters contain, It's fhe one that has nothing to do With the studies that vex this. poor brain. When I've finished my task for the morrow, I draw my chair up to the fire, Close my books without evident sorrow, And blow a \ Good Night \ from my briar. Then old echoes and fancies .come dancing, Mix and drift with the smoke roupd my head- Scraps of music, odd bits of romancing, :Bright things some one's written or said. Memories of those strolls together With-however, that's merely detail, A rush for the goal with the \leather Or a day with Iny gun after quail. You disgraceful old book~ on the shelf, there, J'm your slave fo!' twelve hours a day, But this hour which my pipe and myself share Is the hour when you've nothing to say. CONWAY MAUR. \ My teeth are full of sand,\ said the fairest bather in the surf. \All right, hand them out,\ said an ad- \lnirer, \ and I'll rinse then1 out for you.\ And now she regards him only ~s a brother.-Inde.x. The attention of the class is again called to the I matter of the Alumni Ass9ciation. It is hoped that each one will giVe the subject his inunediate con- Unfair tackling around the waist was a disgraceful feature of the game of blindrnan's buff with the Annex yesterday. . We hope we shall not have to refer to this I again.-Athletic Jtems from Lampoon. sideration.

