------------------- ------~----- -- ----- --- -- -- -- ----- VOL. VIII. UNION COLLEGE, MARCH 25, r 885. NO.6. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. 1- T. MOREY, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF. A. c. EGELsToN, '8s, . F. s. RANDALL, '86, H. J. COLE, '86, T. R. wOODBRIDGE, '86,} E. M. CAMERON, '87, G. D. BUEL, '87, AssociATE LITERARY PERSONAL LocAL WILLIAM liuTcHINSON, BusiNEss~I>ITOR. TERMS, $r.soPER YEAR, rN AuvANcE We desire our frieJzds to send us contribtttio;zs, items of i;tferest a;zd information- concerJtz'Jl{{ Altt1n1zz'. All business letters s.hould be addressed to the B usz'- ~~ess Editor. Entered at tlte Postoffice, Schenectady, N. Y., as seco;zd-class matter. PRINTED BY CHAS. BURROWS, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Ek)ITOI\IfiL. !i)'f!O an u.pper class-man the cremation of al- ~ gebra as carried out this year seems a I deplorable custom. It is true this may cJ in part be ascribed to the fact that an upper class-man is supposed to have put away all childish things, but for the greater part it arises fr()m an honest conviction that the custom as carried out now is disgusting, de- grading, a11d unworthy of the support of col- lege n1en. A mystical, solemn ceremony taking place in the dead of the night, car- ried out by men arrayed in garbs picturesque and atnusing ; a good funeral oration, poem, and dirge, rendered to an appreciative and orderly crowd, and all followed by a genuine cremation is, inueed, approaching the ideal, ------------ ---- ---~----~-------------- -- ----- ------------ and something to be comn1ended. On the contrary, a ceren1ony, attended \vith so much danger that certain delicate (?') individuals are prevented from taking part, accon1pa- nied by stale eggs, a hoodlum crowd and, to use words more in spirit with the perform- ance, \slugging gore, plenteous pro- fanity, frequent arrests and sore heads is a ceremony deserving of.nothing but speedy abolishment. The exhibition last week was perhaps a little nlore barbarous than those of the two preceding years, ·and for that rea- son sets forth 1nore clearly the degrading effect of such a, custom. For college n1en to engage in a ''slugging\ match, urged on by the worst element a city affords, seems de- plorable indeed. Now we are not in favor of abolishing the custom altogether, but ask for a reform. It is hoped that the class of '88 will take part in next year's cremation no further than to see fair play, and to help keep order, and .that they will show their bravery in confronting the troublesome \townies\ instead of their college associates. UOW is the titne for the Senior to ~ecide e on his work for the spring t~rm. A -, liberal number of electives is allowed ~ in order that any one wishing to make a specialty of some particular study may have the opportunity. The last tern1 in col- lege should be the most profitable one. A student should at this time in the course have his n1ind fully settled as to his future calling, and he should devote his energies, during this term at least, to studies that will have a practical influence on his future.

6o THE CONCORDIENSIS. ~---------. ~HE decision of the Union College Sen· 1 ate to continue its work next term is a .I good sign. It sh~ws a realization of the. ~ benefits to be der1ved from such work, and further, that the efforts of the professor in charge are appreciated. The design of the Senate, as is wen known, is to give prac- tice in the discussion of the 1i ve questions of the ·day, and also to fan1il iarize the sfudent with parliamentary rules and practic·es. The first part of the design has undoubtedly .been carried out successfully; but can as much be said regarding the second part'? Was not the importance of following the strict inter- · pretation of the ru·l!es and practices, as given in the Rules of the Union College Senate and in the 1nanual adopted, been at times overlooked? It is thought by some that a strict interpretation and ruling should not at all times be practiced, but that the evident desire of the Senate should be consulted, even if the proceedings are a little irregular. Against this view we would strongly pro- test. It would be right if applie~ to the pro- ceedings of a meeting where the business to be done is all i1nportan t, but it is manifest! y wrong when applied to a society where ex- pressed design is the acquirement of a knowl- edge of parlian1entary rules and practices. If a senator can obtain an advantage over his opponents by means of some technicality or some commonly overlooked rule, his action should be regarded with favor. This view of the matter is the ()nly one consistent with the design of the Senate and we hope that during the spring term session, it ·will be more rigidly acted upon. §E notice that the various committees ~~ appointed to make the necessary ar- ~ rangements for Commencement are l busily engaged upon their respective ~ tasks. These things are too often put off until the last minute, when they are rushed through with such haste that the work is done in a very unsatisfactory ,man- ner. Last year the invitations were not re- ceived until a day or two before commence- ment, and many were unable to dispose of them as they had intended. After the committees have perforn1ed their part of the work, every 1nem her of the Senior should make it a point to be prompt in meet- ing his share of the expense. While we could wish the expenses attendant upon graduation were lighter, still it is presutned that all have counted the cost and have made arrangements accordingly. Iamping lncident6. \.ELL boys,. how does this strike ~ ~ you ? ' was the re1nark made by one ·~ of our company of five, after pas- 1 sing the n~ght upon .the soft side of cJ a plank, !n the vain endeavor to gain that rest which is given only by re- freshing sleep. Two days before we had started to enjoy a sojourn upon the shores of one of the n1any beautiful lakes in the region of the '' North Woods, and after several minor ad- ventures had arrived at our destination. Our trappings, having been sent on by stage, had been left at a house at the end of the lake farthest from our camp, and hav- ing secured tb em we began to build our \shanty.\ By evening we had succeeded in getting it partially enclosed, when a slight rain be .. gan to fall ; so throwing a large canvas, which fortunately we had brou.ght with us, over the top, we gathered our things be- neath and began to lan1ent our prospects for the night. We were \in tor it,\ however, so partaking of a supper of rye bread, cra.ck- ers and cheese, we turned in as best we could ; some laid on the ground, and some

THE CONCORDIENSiS. 6r upon planks placed on logs, and thus we nounced the presence of some animal. Just passed the night. then a shout was heard, \ I see him, its a The first thing we heard upon awakening bear!\ Waiting for nothing further \ve was the exclamation at the beginning of the started for the boat. The writer was so sketch. The prospect was dreary enough. scared that he tripped and fell, but the way 'The rain vvas still descending, bnt after blam-. he got on his feet and into the boat was con- ing our luck, as we called it; we concluded · vincing proof that he was not hurt. We we migpt as well get to work, rain or no rain. pulled back to camp where two of the boys . By noon we had our building enclosed, and · detern1ined to seek protection of the camp- the sky becoming clearer, our spirits rose ·· fire; but declaring that I wouldn't leave the proportionate! y. Cheered by the prospect, · boat, and telling them to fire a revolver upon we severally started to gather wood. One the return of the absent ones, I pulled out of our number soon came running back and · fron1 the shore. reported the discovery of a large pile of cord- After rowing about for some time, striving wood, left by some wood-man, and our con- in vain to banish my feelings of loneliness sciences not troubling us a great deal we all and to still the loud thump, thump of my turned to and brought it to camp. That heart, a pistol shot broke the stillness of the evening sitting around our fire, from which night. Answering, I gladly started for camp. tongues of fla1ne were shooting high into the We were soon gathered around the fire re- air, smoking our pipes and telling our sto- lating the principle adventure of the even- ries, we began to get a foretaste of the pleas- ing, viz., our encounter with the bear. All ure enjoyed by campers out. The next day were considerably amused, Horace being was spent in making our camp more attract- excessively sarcastic in his remarks concern* ive. After this our time was spent in explor- ing our fright at the supposed presence of a ing the surrounding country, fishing and bear, at the same time remarking that he hunting. never all owed trifles to disturb his equa ni m- One incident comes vividly to my mind. ity. The next rnorning however the tables The day had passed slowly by', and evening were slightly turned. We aJl gathered had set in with a gloom, enhanced by the around the fire, while Horace, with his back mournful soughing of the wind and by a thick turned toward it, sat meditating. We soon bank of clouds which had gradually overcast discovered that· his coat-tails had taken fire, the sky. Two of our party had gone, just and as they burned very slowly, determined before dusk, to a village three or four miles to see how long it would be before he no- from camp, to replenish our much din1in- ticed it. T'he fire had made considerable ished larder. They did not intend to return progress when slowly rising he drawled out, until about midnight, and we were to busy \Say boys, I smell son1ething burning; is ourselves as best we could. Feeling rather there anything the n1atter with 1ny coat?\ lonesome we sought to pass the time upon \Well I should say so,\ said Harry, \it's the placid waters of the lake. While rowing all ablaze.'' The alacrity with which he re- along we espied, not. far from the margin a moved that coat was in marked contrast to piece of tin1ber, and thinking it might be of the opinions expressed the night previotis use to us, pulled ashore; but while in the concerning the stability of his equanin1ity. act of raising it a deep grunt was heard close Some time after this, I remen1ber, a few by, while the crackling underbrush an- of us had gone across the lake to take a •

6a THE CONCORDIENSIS. swin1. While enjoying ourselves in the water, we saw a number of people standing on the shore a short distance above us. Dressing, vve went over to make their ac- quaintance, and found a party. of young ladies accompanied byan elderly lady. 'They w~re busily engaged in concocting that ever de- lightful beverage known as le1nonade. After • introducing ourselves, we -,ought to make a favorable impre-ssion, hoping- also to obtain a few letnons, as we had observed some in their well-fi1led basket. But no, it wouldn't work. While we were trying our persuasive . powers to their utmost, a scream was heard ' and turning around we saw one of the younger girls standing in the middle of a boat, which, having become unfastened, was slowly drifting out into the lake. It had al- ready drifted to a considerable distance ' when, moved by the instincts of chivalry, the bravest of our pa~ty, throwing off his coat, plunged in and with a few strokes reached it. Climbing in, he bade the thor- oughly frightened girl to keep quiet, and soon reaching the shore consigned her to her com- panions. And as he did not feel very conl- foitable in his damp condition, \Ve concluded to return to camp. As we were embarking, however, one\of the fair damsels, out of the magnanimi~y of her heart, offered a solitary lemon to him, who had bravely dared the surging elements to rescue her companion from a watery grave. Little incidents such as these, though not much in thetnselves, helped to while away the tin1e until we bade our camp farewell. WoLRAH. ~ member of ~he Physiology class de- scribes the. bod>' In th c · ~oil owing startling manner: Fust, IJ!Jto the ngh t auricle, fro1n there into the right ventricle, then to the lungs, from there to the left ventricle then into the alimentary canal.-Ar11zs Stude;zt. -\\ , elea6e.~ ltOSEDis Wi~te:'s thr.~ll, Ere long hrs Icy chuns ~~~ Will disappear in sparkling streams, u~~ Neath April's suns and rains. E'en though 1nost loath his p~wer to yield O'er lake, and dvulet, and field, A sign we have, 'twill not be long ; A sign most sure-the robin's song. RoY, 'Ss. • ~acation lpi6ode. ROB is very susceptible where ther_e is a ~ pretty girl in the case, and many are ~ the times he has been desperately smit- 1 ten, only to come out heart ... wh.ole in ~ the end. Last Summer, ·however, he came very near making a conquest that would be his last. The story was told me by hjs chum, who spent the vacation with him at the wat- ering place where the event transpired.. One afternoon, soon after their arrival, as Bob and his friend were taking a walk to- gether, they noticed a young lady whose ac- tions s.eemed to indicate that she had lost her way. She, also, observed that they were regarding her. Cind, apparently reassured by their gentlemanly appearance, inquired of them the way to street. Boh, although not well acquainte-d with the town, knew the location of the street in- dicated (one of the most fashionable in the place), and, as the young ]ady was· pretty, politely offered to see her safely horne. The offer was gladly accepted and the young lady and her escort left, the latter agreeing to meet his chum at supper. · Upon Bob's return he could speak of no- thing but his new acquaintance-her beauty, her refinement. \ She must belong to a good family,\ said he, \for the house I left her at is one of the finest on the street.\ She had invited him to call the following Wednesday, and he could hardly restrain his impatience until the day should arrive.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. But at last it came ; and in the afternoon, af-· ter an hour spent in arranging his neck-tie, our hero started out to make his eagerly an- ticipated call. That evening he was more completely en- raptured than ever. He had found Juliet alone, and they had enjoyed a delightful tete-a-tete. She had invited him to call again the following Tuesday. \I am beginning to think,'' said Bob, after recounting his visit to his friend, \ I am be- ginning to think that, at last, I have found the woman destined to be my wife ; and that it will be impossible for me to live without h \ er. If the time for Bob to make his first visit c2.me slowly, how n1uch more so did the time for him to make his second. But Tuesday came at last. Just before starting; he grasped the band of his friend. saying, \I return either the bappiest man on earth, or with n1y whole future existence blighted.'' How different was. his ret urn on this oc- casion from his former one. He spent the evening in silence; except for now and then muttering,-\ terrible fool,., \confounded idiot,\ and expressions of a like character. Not for several days could his friend learn the cause of his depression. Finally, however, as time heals all wounds, our hero recovered sufficient equanin1ity to relate his experience. Upon reaching the house of his idol, he found an elderly lady sitting upon the piazza. He inquired if Ju- liet was at home· \ No,'' was the ans\ver, ''No, she don't work here anv more; she ., married the stable-boy last Saturday, and we got a ne\v servant-girl in her place.'' \Anq young n1an,\ continued she, \our servant's visitors are expected to go 'round to the back door. ' It is not to be wondered at that Bob was depressed, and that he begged his chum never to say anything about it. The reader, however, .must not think that Bob's heart was completely broken, for he had a very tender parting with the daughter of a wealthy Senator just before leaving for college, and her photograph is now tacked above the mantle-piece of his room on the hill. M. iMe6peration. I DON'T object to a little fun, Or a little wholesotne din; But I'm free to confess ~ That I'll soon seek redress From my neighbor beyond the wall. In the dead or' the night, I'll engage him in fight; And one in his gore will fall. This, then, is the cause, which the strife begun, ;He keeps a violin. \1 Now, this itselfis a trifle light, And I'd care not the worth of a pin If he'd keep a bazoo, And a bass-drum too,- Provided he'd keep them s'::ill. But in the dead of the night, I'll engage hin1 in fight; And one the other shall kill,- For the self-same room bJ day or night He keeps a. fiddle-in'. F. E. H vd rochloride of cocaine is the chemicaJ- 1 y c\Orrect name for the new local ances- thetic, accordtng to Prof. James M. Safford, of the Vanderbilt University.-Nashvi!le '.}'our. of Jl!fcd. and Surg. Young lady (innocently to gentleman): \1 wish I could get one of those Freshn1en to plant in my garden! I do so want something green.\ Blushes from Freshie.-Ex. ''I have this subject at my fingers' ends,\ said the student, as he unfolded his crib at examination.-Ex. The largest observatory clon1e in the wor1 d is being 1nade in Cleveland for the U niver- sity of Michigan.. It weig;hs ten tons, and has a diameter of forty· five feet and four inches at the base.-Uni'lJersity Herald.

64 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ------------------------------- ~gur ~fhambermaid.~ DfrHO scampers up and down the stair, ~ As light as though she tread on air, -~ ~ As thou~h she never knew a care? ouY.\!J Elizabeth. -Who makes the 1\)eds with fingers deft, And slings the bed clothes right and left And leaves rny room of dirt bereft? Elizabeth. And who in spite of rny disgust, In sweeping raises clouds of dust That daily grow from worst to \wust\? Elizabeth. Who spills the aRhes on the floor, And bolts us once a week or more, Which often makes us swear a swore? Elizabeth. .-~ Who, when 1ny pride s_tl'€\vants to touch Because it gratifies m-e much, Addresses n1e in choicest Dutch? Elizabeth..··. ... Who does het work from day to day, In that slow, plodding, weary way, Works hard and long for little pay? Elizabeth. Who does her duty every time, Better an1id the dirt and grime, Than I who wrote this wretched rhyme? Elizabeth. -------------- L00fi1. Aun1ie is seriously ill. Who is Jay McQuade? -- ---------------- ··• The reading room is non est. Mills, of the Senior class is convalescing. The Engineers have finished their work and several vvill soon leave. South college has a ne\v pump. What's the matter of North college having one too? Any subscriber not receiving his paper pron1ptly, will confer a favor by notifying us. Prof. Lamoroux has been called, on ac- count of the illness of a relative, to Denver, Col. The present college term ends March 27, and the Spring term commences April 7, 1885. The fashion in wall-paper border the com- ing season, will be a row of chapel notices. Frosh. \Was Rome founded by Romeo?'' Prof. \No ·it was Juliet who was found dead by Romeo.\ It is reported that a me111her of the Soph- , omore class was arrested for carrying con- cealed chickens. Lieut. I-I ollis has been detached fron1 the Dolphin and placed on the Advisory Board at Washington. \Vandy\ has formed a polo team, the · members of which practice every day in the ·• '' gym \ and are progressing fin ely. One of the Juniors has called down con- siderable wrath upon his head by the part he took in the crernation exercises. Prof. Chaplin passed several days at Al- bany in company ~rith Prof. Trowbridge of Columbia, examining the work of the Adi- rondack survey. The snow has blown off the can1pus in some places and exposed the bare ground, which looks quite cheerful after being con- cealed for such a long time. The prospects of our ball-nine are not gen- erally considered as very flattering. Several men are working hard, however, and will perhaps disappoint the doubting ones. At the beginning of next term each stu- dent who has not paid his subscription to the CoNCORDIENSIS will receive a call from one of the editors. Please have the change ready. ,Furbeck, '87, will have charge of the col- lege bookstore next term, and will furnish any of the books to be used then. .He asks the patronage of the students in general and promises to furnish books at bottom prices with little or no delay. ~'I guess you don't know anything about that mystery conneeted with the Lab, do you ?\ said Spriggins to his ch un1. \ No, I don't\ said his chum who had flunked that morning because he didn't know the differ- ence between sodium chloride and· 1--alt. ''What is the mystery?\ \Chem-mystery\ said Spriggins, as he crawled under the bed to -escape getting hit.

THE ClJNCORDIENSIS. In accordance with the resolutions printed elsewhere, E. T. Perkins of the Senior class and W. P. Landon of the Junior were elected to the board of managers of the base-ball nine, of which T. ]. Delaney of the Senior class is chairn1an. Mr. Landon will act as treasurer. We have again been favored with a com- muni cation signed \Spectator.\ Fault is found because his cornmunication last month w·as not published. If \Spectator\ wishes · to receive the attention which he desires, he should show hitnself a man and rise above the cowardly and contemptible practice of. writing anonyn1.ous articles. On the 2 3d in st., the Seniors, accom p::tnied by Prof. Staley, visited the Dudley Observato- ry at Albany. Two or three of the class, owing to the rarity of their visits to large towns, were somewh1t be,vildered, and only reached the observatory after a circuitous route. Prof. Boss was untiring in his explanations of tl1e workings of the telescopes and various accessories. The low temperature of the at- mosphere detracted somewhat from the ap- preciation of the trip, but altogether it was quite satisfac~gry. At a college-meeting held March r6, r 885, a paper was read by Mr. Hayes of the Junior class, which upon being amended \Vas accept- ed, and is as follows: \ In view of the de- plorable condition into which the manage- ment of the B. B. nine has fallen, (with no reflection upon the present Senior Director), and in order to secure a more sensible and business like management of the University B. B. nine, be it moved that a committee of three be organized for such managem.ent; that the Senior Director, regularly elected by his class, shall constitute the chairman of said committee, the other two to be elected by the college at large. The duties of said com1nittee severally and collectively shall be as follows: rfhe Senior Director shall organ- ize the nine, manage it on the road, and dis- burse funds necessary for the current expen- ses of the nine. One of the Assistant Di- rectors, chosen from the Junior class, shall be Treasurer of said committee and shall keep an itemized account of aU expenses, which shall be subject to inspection at any time; and shall also, at the end of the season, make a report whieh shall be read before the college. The other Assistant Director, cho- sen from· the Senior class, shall have charge of advertising, and the management of grounds during :home games. The commit- tee as a whole shall procure funds and decide upon all matters of importance to the nine.\ At midnight on Tuesday the r7th the an- nual cremation of algebra by the Freshmen took place. Anticipating trouble if they formed on the ''hill,'' the Freshmen started from Jay street, where the coffin was kept, and had ~marched down State street and were coming up Union before the Sophomores and the college in general were aware of the fact. The procession was headed by the Continental Drum Corps and was escorted by several policemen. Nothing of impor- tance happened till the procession reached the \hilL\ Blue Gate had been completely barricaded by the Sophs, with old wagons, sleighs and rubbish; and behind this they stationed themselves, having as ammnnition an almost irie.xhaustable supply of stale eggs. The Freshmen did not attempt to enter here but marched directly by to the entrance in the rear of Mrs. Nott's house. All the while after arriving on the \hill\ a galling fire of eggs was kept up· by the Sophs, and the ghostly uniforms of the Freshmen rapiJly assumed the yellow tint of the eggs. The upper entrance had also been chained and padlocked, but the police had opened the way before the procession had arrived there. Immediately inside this entrance a slight skirmish took place in which clubs were used and three or four Sophs were disabled. It is rumored that a Junior took an active part in the proceedings here, for which he is uni- versally condemned. The scene of the ere~ n1ation was a picturesque one to say the least, and was lajd on the campus directly in front of the chapel. Amid a constant fire of snow, ic~ and sticks, and the jeers of the Sophs. the hated book was reduced to ashes. The Freshtnen guarded the coffin in good form, and vvitbs tood the attacks of the So phs bravely. The Sophs seemed actuated more by a desire to hit a Freshman than to cap- ture the coffin, and especially in the skirmish around the pyre. The absence of banners and transparencies detracted much from the appearance of the Freshmen. The night was

66 THE CONCORDIENSIS.. bitterly cold, being about 10 degrees below zero, thus attracting a smaller crowd than usual. ~enior \la66 ~upper. ~ ~b :.~-..!) .&. The Seniors held their class supper the night of the 6th inst, at Worden's Hotel,. Sar- atoga. Arriving at 6 P. M., all were agreea- bly surprised to learn that arrangements had been n1ade by the proprietor, Mr. Worden, with the officers of the Woodlawn Toboggan club,· whereby they rnight enjoy this novel and exciting sport. A large sleigh which was in readiness carried then1 to the \ slide,'' where, thanks to Judge Barbour who kindly took charge of the party, an evening was passed, the pleasur.e of which \vill not soon be forgotten. Before returning to the hotel several visited the polo game in progress at the skating rink; but promptly at twelve all were seated at a banquet which would have done credit to Delmonico himself. After imbibing the usual an1ount of good cheer the following toasts were aptly responded to : Alma Mater, \V. T. Foote, J r ; The Faculty, C. W. Stryker; Eighty-Five in the Di a- n1ond, T. J D~laney; Ot.1r Future, W m. Hutchinson; Our College Socials, S. B Cof- fin ; Our Warriors, E. A. Lewald ; 0 ur Girls, P. Iglehart; Old Dorp, F. E. Crane ; Our Editors, J. T. Morey; Our New Pro- fessors.].]. McS_orley; Our Missing Class- mates, J S. Hoy; Our Senate, E. Terrill; The Toboggan Club, E. Mitchell; lVIine Host, G. W. Ebaugh. As Prescient F. W. Ray was t ak en sudden 1 y i 11 before the sup~ per, the toast, Our Class, \Vas assigned by toastmaster Fowler, to F. ~:[. Severson By a unanimous vote, a con1n1ittee was appoint- ed to tender the thanks of the class to Mr. Worden for his many kindnesses, also to the m etn bers of the 'foboggan Club for their generous treatment. }:xpressing the corn- mon sentin1ent that their last class supper was th~ most successful, and recomn1ending future classe~ wishing a good time to visit Mr. Worden, they party took the n1orning train for Dorp. ligma lhi lon\fention. ~HE fifty-eighth annu::tl convention of t~e · ~ Sigma Phi Society was held at the I Alpha Chapter, in Schene·ctady, on ~ Wednesday the 4th inst. The Society \Vas founded at Union College in 1827, on the 4th of March, on which day its reunions are always held. The oldest mem her pres- ent was Hon. Charles P. Cromwell, Union '27, of Rye, N.Y., the only surviving char- ter member. Amongst other graduates were Prof. John Foster, Ph. D., of Union College, R. H. King, Dr. :F. Townsend, D. '!· R. Johnson and E. B. Root of Albany, Hon. J. S. Sherman, Mayor of Utica, W. S. Lansing and E. P. E. Lansing of Little Falls. Delegates were present from all the Chapters. ]'he n1embers met in the aftP.r- noon, and at I I P. l\1. supper was served in Van Horne Hall. We have before us some laws in force here ninety years ago, a few of which we ap- pend for the benefit of our readers: All the students are strictly forbidden to play at ca·rds, or any unlawful game; to use profane or obscene language; to strike or insult any person; to associate with persons of kno\vn bad character; to attend at places of vain and idle sports; to visit taverns with- out liberty; to appear in ·indecent dress., or in woman's apparel ; to lie, steal, get drunk, or be guilty of other gross in1moralities. If any student shall transgress in any of these respects, he shall be punished by fine not less than fifty cents, nnr more than three dollars; or by admonition, rustication or ex- pulsion. If any student shall sn1oke a pipe or cigar in any part of the college, except in his own roon1, he shall for every offence be fined twelve cents. No member of an under class n1ay go into the chapel or dining hal1, without stopping at the door, and looking round to observe whether any of the class or classes above

THE CONCORDIENSIS. him. are cotning fron1 any part of the college; a:nd it shall be the duty of all the students to do the same respecting their superiors, . and to wait, unless permitted to go forward by a wave of the hand from the superior. And when any Regent, Trustee or Offlcer of college, shall enter the chapel before the exercises are begun, or any room where a class or number of students are assembled, it shall be the duty of all the students to rise from tpeir seats in a respectfultnan ner. Any student who shall violate thi;s law shall be lia- ble to punishment by fine and admonition as the case may require. No student is permitted to wear his hat within the college walls on. the penalty of six cents for every offense. . Every student is forbidden tO take his seat at the table till a blessing be asked by one of the officers, or to leave it except by permission until thanks be returned, .. on the penalty of twenty-five cents for each offense. As a compensation for his services the but- ler shall be allowed so n1uch room in .the col- lege edifice as the Trustees shall judge necessary; and shall be pern1itted to sell to the students in the hours of recreation, cider, beer, bread, butter, cheese, coffee, tea, choca- late, milk, apples and such other articles as the President shall permit, in small quanti- ties and at a reasonable profit. The butler is also pertnitted to sell the students books and stationery~ The students are forbidden to enter the butlery without liberty, or tore- main there longer than is necessary. All damage done to the property of the butler, where the authors cannot be detected, shall be equally assessed on all the students, and charged in their quarter bills. The butler shall not he removed from office except by a vote of the :Faculty. · It shall be the duty of the students in the Freshman year TO carry messages when re- quired by the Faculty to any student of col- lege, or persons residing within the city of Schenectady. The Cornell Glee Club has disbanded, and each of the members was assessed 8 5 cents. According to carefully prepared statistics, Yale College brings into New I-Iaven about a million dollars a year. -.-- .... - / . ~~- Ucmoriam. . .· The notice of the death of Martin R. Dele- . banty, which occurred .March 10, was re- . ceived with surprise and sorrow. Althoug-h · but a short ti n1 e among us, his genial quali- ties had n1ade for hin1 .many friends through- out the college. He graduated last June with honor from the Albany High School, where for two consecutive tern1s he was president of the Philodoxia Society. Ent~r­ ing Union last fall be was elected class his- torian.. In his death the college loses a prornising student, the class of '88 an enthu- siastic n1 en1 ber, and the Delta Phi :Fraternity a devoted brothe~ R\ESOL UTIONS. At a. rn;eeting of the Class of '88, March I I, the following- resolutions were adopted: WHEit.EAS, \Vith the deepest sorrow, we have re- ceived tid in u::; of the unti mel v death of our beloved ~ ~ friend and classtnate, lVIartin R. Delehanty; and \VHER.EAS Our Heavenly Father, in his divine wis- dom has l-IC~n fit to summon from our midst a cotn- ' . . pan ion n1anly beyond his years, and possessing .virtues of mind' and heart, which fevv n1ay hope to attatn; and \iVHER.EAS, We feel our grief more keenly, when we · reflect nhat l1e passed from cross to crown, ere he had reached the portaL;; of manhood; and though we sadly miss his fat11iliar face and sunny f'mile, let us hope that the exa.1nple of his lofty aims and pure life may serve as a guide to our faltering steps. lie closed the book of life 1vith the consciousne~s of duty 1vell done dav by dav; therefore be it Resolr.,ed, T'hat we extend our heartfelt sympath.:· to the f<tm 1ly of the deceat'ed in their irreparable loss; that as a. last tribute of affection we attend the funeral in a body; and Resozc.,ed, T'hat a copy of these resolutions be en- gt-ossed, and sent to the bereaved family; and that they be publ:tshed in the papers of Schenectady and Albany. jAMES E. BRENNAN, MICIL\EL H. BEGLE i, WJI.LIA::vr L. KENNEDY, FRAN~{: D. LEWIS, SILAS N. LI l TLE, Com1nittee. At a. rneeting of the i\lpha Chapter of the . Delta Phi Fraternity held March r rth, r885, the following prean1ble and resolutions were adopted : WHEI~EAs, God has rcn1oved by death our broth~r, Martin R. Dele han tr, of the Class of '88; thet·efore be it Nesolr•cd, That ,\·hile be bow in submission to the will of Providence, we fee) great ;:;;orrow in hi-> de~th. . Resolz:•ed, That by the death of brother Martin R. · D .. dehanty, we lost a true friend, a gentletnanly asso- ciate, aD.d a leading member of the Delta Phi. Re:>olz•cd, That \VC tender to hi~ tinnily our sympathy in their affliction. RPsoh•ed, That the ha.dge or the fraternity be draped in moun1ing for thirty davs. Reso/zJed, That a copy of these resolutions be sent

68 THE CONCORDtENS!S. :: ·------'----~---------- to the fat;IiiY of our departed brother, an~ to ea,ch of I C. H. Doolittle, '83, of Madison, and the assoctate chapters, and that they be pnnted 1t1 the Co k '8 2 of L h ~ h ~a·d 1 Unt\on a short CONCORDIENSIS. . ~ -' ' e tg ' p . C. W. STRYKER, VISit last Week. CHAs. B. McMuRRAY, 'B H d' . · -d·' · · h F. x. RANSDELL, 3· ·· ar 1ng Is rea · tng servrce In t e EnwARn M. CAMERoN, Church of the Messiah, Brooklyn. Enw ARD P. TowNE. , ________ _ _ __ ______ _ ___ _ __ --- v 83. The engagement of John S. Hoy to Miss Grace Burch, of .. A..Ibany, is announced. ~ '84. Delaney hns been engaged on tBe v/;27. News has just been received of the ',Albany Argus. death of the Rev. R. H. Chapman, D. D., at '84. Hall is travelin~ for his health, and his home in Asheville, N. C., November, is now attending the New Orleans Exposi- I 884. Mr. Chapman was one of the found- tion. ers of the Sigma Phi Fraternity and was a . '8s. Duffie has entered the law office of prominent Presbyterian clergyman. l His Clark . & Muller at Colpmbia, S. C. 1His many acquaintances will be grieved to hear health is much improved since his return of his death.) home. , v/ Alexander Holland, who was treasurer of this college from 18 39 to 18 54, ah.d was reg- istrar from 1843 to 18 54, died at his resi- ---·-- ··------- .. ---- - ···--------- dence 52 East 25th street, New York city, The Mormons are about to erect a College at the age of 6g. in Salt Lake City. lencrctl ~ollegc 8ew6. V. '40. Thales Lindsley died in New York city, on February 21, 1885. Mr. Jjndsley was a civil engineer and an inventor, and was in correspondence with the ·Board of Public Works of N cw York city with a vi~w to the use of his boring machine in the ~onstruction of the new aqueduct. He was born in Yates county, this State, about sixty-six years ago, and after graduating from Union, started for the West where he practised his pr·ofe.ssion of civil engineer. He made ex- tensive surveys of Colorado, and resided for a time at Oshkosh. The average salary of College Professors in the United States is said to be $1,530. The Hon. Wayne McVeagh delivered an address before the students of Haverford College, on Washington's Birthday. The Critnson says, in an editorial, that their Sophomores now have left the one course, that of paying for their brief view of Columbia's rudder last spring. · The Faculty of Harvard College formally decided, on March 3d, to abolish Greek as a requirement for admission to the College. This action of the Faculty follows close upon President Eliot's paper, read before the Nine- teenth Century Club, advocating a curricu- lum in vvhich every study should be optional. It seems to us, however, that a conservative curriculum would be better than one abso- lutely free. For it has been our experience that but very, very few college students have any manly conception of what life really means until the end of their Sophomore year. As the prime aim of a College course is to benefit the student and to prepare him to bear his part in life, it follows that for these two years son1e one else should define his studies. W ~ think, moreover, that the last two years should be optional in every departm en t.-Acta Colza?Zbiana. 1 / '4r. Hamilton Harris has been recently 1 elected a Member of the Board of Regents of the State of New York. Mr. Harris lives in .4'\lbany. . . '72. D. S Lamont, who was the private ~ecretary of President Cleveland while Gov- ernor of this State, has gone to Washington to occupy the same position. \, '75. H. C. Hodgkins was registered at Givens on the 8th inst. He is now the city engineer of Watertown, N. Y. 08o. Alexander has opened a law-office at 55 Pine street, New York. .\8r. Rev. Wilbur F. Hawkins was conse- c-rated to the priesthood in the Church of the Epiphany, Philadelphia, March 8, 1~85. ) I \

