VOL. VIII. UNION COLLE;GE, MAY 25, I 885. NO. 8. ,.,.lT···J· ·. E ·+r\o\'r ~oi? r'tlE1\f ~I·~- ... above its source; and without a willingness ·.1 f.L ~ J l~ ~\'1'-/ J 'l~ ~ . on the part of each to perform his share of PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY :· the work the wished for results can not be :· THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. expected, as it is impossible for One Or tWO -- ::eo~:c o:F' ~:c:t~J:~oRs. men, however well disposed, to properly per- ]. T. MoREY, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF. •· form the work of eight. A. C. EGELsToN, '85, · AssocL:\T•E • To those who may be selected for the F. s. RANDALL, '86, LI1'ERARY ' k ld d d d h H. J. CoLE, , 86 , PERSoNAL . wor we wou a· ,- o not accept t e po- T. R. WoonBRID~E, '86.} sition under any consideration unless you E. M. CAMERON, 87, . · LocAL ·· are willing to make a little sacrifice of tin1e G. D. BUEL, '87, . WILLIAM HuTCHINSON, BusiNEss EDITOR. TERMS, $I. 50 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE . ' We desire our friends to send us contrib utio1zs, t'tems of t'nterest a1zd information concerning Alum1u'. All business letters should be addressed to the Bttsi- ne:Js Edt'to r. Ettiered at the Postoffice, Schenectady, N. Y., as second-class · matter. PRUnED BY CHAS. BURROWS. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. ElUITOl\If!L. Err will be noticed that a change in the ~ n1anner of electing the editor-in-chief has J been adopted. The remainder of the board, however, will continue, for the present, to be elected by the classes. And as it is time for these elections to take place we have a few suggestions to make~ although we know the subject is pretty well worn. To the classes we would say,-if you de- sire a good paper, as you ttndou btedl y do, make it a point to elect no one to the edito- rial board who has not both ability and willingness to work for its best interests. For without ability it will be as fruitless to expect good work as that a stream will rise and convenience. For while the work is not at all burdensome where each does his part, there is nevertheless a certain an1ount which must be done without the probability of the credit which it deserves being given. The regular work of the present board ends with this number, and it is with hopes of greater prosperity for the Concordiensis in the future that we make way, in turn, for our successors. ET is pleasing to notice the interest taken ~ by the newspapers around the country as J regards a new president for Union. Were it not for our great respect for modern journalism, we would be inclined to think that some of these papers are actuated by a desire to \fill up space.'' But then, we would not harbor for an instant such a ---- -- ·- thought, especially of such a rnodel of jour- nalism as the Schenectady Star. The papers are only doing what they consider their plain duty, nan1ely, to discuss the availability of the different candidates, and to give salutary advice concerning the present and the future of the college. Of course, the trustees will elect a president when the proper time comes without consulting these advisers,

So THE CONCORDIENSIS. and some unfeeling people will go so far as to hint that gratuitous advice, even from a newspaper, is uncalled for ; but surely that ought not to make any difference with the newspapers. l .. et them proceed in their philanthropic ~ourse. T.hey have our most tearful thanks for this their noble and unsel- fish effort to secure for Union a suitable president, and if, as a natural outgrowth of their labor they \fill up space\ in their val- uable columns, to this, also, would we express our most hearty approval and congratula- tions. I T' has been a noticeable fact in the past !P that the under-classmen~ as soon as ex- j an1inations are over, take the first train 1 for home. Now, we do not wish to say l€ anything against this desire to get home; we simply wish to raise the question to the . under-classmen whether it wo:.1ld not be just as well if they would curb their impa- tience and remain in the city until the com- mencement exercises are over. It would take but a few days from their vacation home, and would, we think, add materially to the pleasure of their college life. Com- · mencement time is certainly the most ani- mated and enjoyable part of the college year. rfhis is true, not only to the senio:- with his \mingled feelings,,, but to all who are con- nected with the college. But not alone be- cause of the additional pleasure thus gained would we urge them to remain to commence- ment. If they ren1ain and observe the manner of conducting the exercises, they will be the better able, when their turn comes, to finish their college career in a manner creditable to themselves and to their alma mater. We ask that the under class- men give this matter a little thought, feeling confident that if they do so the num her re- maining to the final exercises will be con- siderably increased con1pared with that of a year ago. latire. By the OwL of Ei~fkiy-t;eve:Jt. Being a late conversation between the grave hird ef Minerva and old Diogenes, touclling a question disclosed in the sequeL Owl-Different far is this search from thy search in the markets of Athens. Harder thou sayest it is; :but I can tell how soon to end it. If thou should'st see bright young men, though sitting at bounteous tables Trying to cheat their own stomachs, and think- ing the waiters were cheated, Eating only when watched, and rejoicing as over a triumph If they cou~td throw the whole dinner away with- out being detected,- What would'st thou say, pray, to that? Dio- Oh, rny friend, do not mock me with fables! Owl-True is my tale and no less so that I have ex- pressed in a figure What is far worse in fact; tho' the lack of a meal matters little,- Who, who can measure the loss. of the one who thus tramples on knowledge? D£o-Now I begin to perceive what you tnean, and tny hopes are reviving. Where shall I find what you hint? Owl- In Schenectady's ven'rable college. Dz\o.-What? not in J)z'sunion College? Is that insti- tution still living? Was it not changed to a pottery? Owl- No, that attempt was a failure. Dz'o-Then I may hope that other tale false, that upon its green cam pus Standeth a glorious fane, to extravagance reared • and to folly? Owl-Woe, woe is me I Oh, how oft in the weird, .sol- emn stillness of midnight I have too-booed to the moon my con'lplaints of those horrible idols ! Dlo-Tell me whatever thou wilt, no longer I doubt thee or wonder ! Under the walls of that tetnple what folly may not be expected ? Owl-Think not that I can rehearse the sad truth with- out pain and reluctance. But to a friend I can speak. First, as to the cause of the trouble, Who of these task-shirking youths understand the true value of knowledge? This lieth not, as they think 1 in anything seen or external,

THE CONCORDtENStS. Sr Not in the fame may bring, nor e'en in the good ; one may do with it; But in its power to develope the soul, made after· God's image. Ign0rance truly is partial death, knowledge life : -life worth living! And to despise or neglect it is no less a crime than self-murder. Since,, then, the study of that which is infinite . tnust be unending, AU that a teacher can do is tnerely to teach how - to study. So ifa tnan learns not this, his college-course profiteth nothing, Therefore the student, by shirking his task and -neglecting his talents, Loseth the power of acquiring and sinneth against his Creator. Dio-What do these sluggards, then, do? Why at all '·do_ they seek education? Owl-Do? . Why, attend to their pleasures and sports, of such weighty itnportance! . But while they, butter-fly-like, sip the nectar · from lillies and roses, They. m~e desirous of reaping the outward re- . wards of hard study. Ev'ry device that their minds can invent is pressed into their service And'to -induce the professors to think that they know what they don't know, ••• 1 Scarcely less trouble they take than they need for a full preparation. · ·: These polished gentlemen, doubtless, would I ., ; :·, scorn the base title of sneak-thieves, Yet with no (?) twinges of conscience they glory ' in marks they deserve not, Nor ever think that for their petty tricks honest students must suffer. _l]io-Clearly thou showest their sin, and since sin· is folly, their folly. Owl-Pardon, my friend. I'd forgotten thy search in my hot indignation. But if the sad side were hidden, therr course is so perfectly silly That I could laugh till my feathers all fluttered around like a snow-storm. Only to\think that these boys, though paying in- structors to teach them, Eagerly sttive to avoid receiving the good of their money! · That they regard and abuse as their foes, their sincerest well-wishers! And, while their studies might be a delight to them, ever increasing, Really prefer to make of them drudgery, bars to enjoytnent! Dio-But I am curious as to the means by which this is .accotnplished. Owl-Chiefest of these are the pony, the bolt- Dz'o- Hold! How can a pony- Owl-Oh, I don't mean a live Shetland, but sitnply a printed translation, By which these parasites try to escape all the trouble (and profit) Met with in reading a Classic; and so they go galloping gayly Over all obstacles; but since their steeds absorb their attentron, They, when their journey is o'er, have seen naught of the beauteous landscape. But not yet satisfied, they must have their cribs- Dio- Well I think that they need them. 0-zvl-Need then1 they do! hal ha! ha! But the cribs that I now refer to, Play the satne part in the class, as the ponies before recitation. What tnodest glances are cast at those papers so skillfully hidden! How very glibly these pupils recite! What won- . derful scholars! And what a useful accomplishment they have spent hours in acquiring! D£o-What did you mean by a bolt? Have these tnor- tals robbed Zeus of his thunder? 0-zvl-Well you would think that they had, should you spend a forenoon on the campus. Loudly rebellow the graves with .the sound of their T\igorous voices, And at the fierce shout of '' Bolt! '' Memorial Hall seems to tremble. ''Montes parturiunt, et nascitur ridiculus mus! '' All they want is by coaxing or craft to escape recitation. Dio-Pray, what proportion of students will stoop to use bolts, cribs and ponies? Owl-Few are continual sinners and few are total ab- stainers. Granting, however, all this, the extent of the vice is appalling, And as I think of the future, relentless avenger, I shudder. Woe to the slighter of tasks when his bright dream of pleasure is broken! 'N oe when his cry of remorse fro1n Memory's caverns of darkness Rouseth the blood-thirsty vampires, the swanns that shall haunt him forever, While in his ears ever rings like the roar in the ears of the drowning,

THE CONCORDIENSIS. ''Take from the faithle.::;s servant, yea, e'en in the one pound he possesseth! ,,, Oh, willful blindness! Oh, critninal folly! In\ fatuate madness! .Dio-· Bird of Athene, thou'st proved a reliable coun- sellor, truly. Long have I wandered perplexed thro' the bounds of all countries and kingdoms, Searching mid nobles or slaves, but in vain for the climax of folly Not because fools are not plenty. But how could I think my search ended, When the next ~oment presented stupidity still more stupendous? But I am satisfied now that my tired feet need travel no further. 0 massive building, that rearest thy beautif'ul fortn on the campus, Only one thing thou lackest to render thy sym- metry perfect. High on thy most lofty dome should be placed an equestrian statue, Armed with the death-dealing bolt, and wearing a crib for a breast-plate, Turning with every breeze, and practically worth-barely nothing! u~w flack ~6h£ord llayed lho6t. ,,DfrELL, I don't care whether I've got ~ this up or not,\ said Jack as he ~ leaned back in his chair, \I'm going 1 to bed.\ J Jack Ashford and his chum, Dick Simonds, two jolly, typical college men had spent most of the warm June even- ing polling up the next day's lesson out of a certain interesting book called Courtenay's Calculus. Becoming discouraged with dry equations, dy's, dx's, tangents, asymptotes, &c., Jack made the decision recorded above and proceeded to disrobe. \ I'm with you old man,'' put in Dick, slamming shut the book. \By jingo! \ he exclaimed leaning out the window, \its a warm night out.\ \ Let's go out on the terrace for a few minutes,\ said Jack who was now arrayed in nothing but a night shirt. \ Yes, you'll go out on the terrace in that rig-. -in a horn,'~ laughed Dick. \Well I will go out on the terrace in this rig,\ retorted Jack. \ Look here. I'll bet you the cream I dare run across the campus and touch that elm tree on the other side, just as I am now and run the -risk of meeting someone,. too '' \ I'll take you sonny,~, said Dick. \ Now let me see you sail out in that ravishing Mother Hubbard garb of yours.\ No sooner said than done, for Jack had slipped down the stairway and soon Dick saw hin1 glide out into the dim moonlight with appearance of a regular eight-day ghost. \Well I've lost,\ soliloquized Dick, \but I'd laugh if he'd meet somebody.\ Just then a frightened scream arose from the c~mpus, and a few minutes later Jack slipped back into the room panting and almost bursting with laughter. \What was it?\ exclaimed Dick. Did some one chase you ? \ '' Well, no,'' said Jack, as soon as he could catch his breath. \Just as I reached the tree, a couple came around the corner of the building, and Great Scott! how they yelled when they saw me! I ran this way and I'm pretty sure they ran that. You just keep still about this and there'll be a ghost story around in the n1orn- . ' , 1ng. Sure enough, next morning Sophomore L , a rather superstitiotlS youth, but in- clined to be truthful, had, on the night pre- vious, seen a ghost as he was returning from the opera w1th M~ss C --, who lived over beyond the college. Both he and Miss C ·were certain they had seen a ghost, and for some tirne it caused quite a little ex- citement. This set Jack to thinki·ng and he determined to have some fun. If he was taken for a ghost under such. circumstances,. he might make himself quite n1ysterious if he chose. , Quite a freak among the students at that time was to milk the cows in the pasture near the college under· the cover of dark- ness. The milk so bbtained was used as a beverage by many tender youths, and not a little of it was used in the concoction of milk-punch. Hearing a couple of freshmen lay plans for a milk -raid that night, Jack laid his plans accordingly Just as they were coming back through the grove jubilant and laden with the spoil, a most horrible spectre seemed to arise from the ground and ap- proach then1. Jack's countenance on this occasion was striking by the application of

TH'E CONCORDIENS!S. phosphorus. The poor Fresh gave one yell made Dick think things had gone far enough, of terror and, dropping; their pail of milk, and concluding that Jack had had fun beat a hasty retreat. Procuring the pail, enough, resolved to have some himself. which luckily had dro:pped right side up, Making the farmer promise not to prosecute Jack sought his room, where he and Dick im- the thief if he caught hitn, and not to use bibed n1ilk-punch and finally the \pure any violent means in capturing or trying to quill\ to such an extent that each, with capture him, Dick agreed, for a stipu:lated much trouble, got the other in bed and then. quantity of strawberries, to explain the mys- blamed himself for letting the other get so tery, but would n1ention no names. To this far over. the farmer agreed, and Dick, with no meaner The college ghost was now a reality. It intent than to have Jack experience a good had been seen twice, d:istinctl y, and it novv scare himself, gave away the affair. Re- remained to discover wbo or what his ghost- minding the farmer of his promise not to use ship was.· Our two cronies, n1eanwhile, were any such decided treatn1ent as a shot-gun or laughing in their sleeves and advancing the arrest, Dick bore his berries away in tri- most absurd theories i11 e_xpla11ation of the umph. mystery that were ever heard of. For a ''Where'd you get 'em?\ asked Jack. week or so the ghost made no appearance, \Right up where you got yours,\ said and when he did it was on a different field of Dick. \0 I don't have to sneak around action. nights after mine. Now, I'll tell you what Back of the college about a quarter of a I'll do. I'll bet you a bottle of ' Mumm's n1ile lived a small farmer who possessed a · Extra Dry' that you can't work that scheme fine large strawberry patch. The fruit vvas again and I wont say a word to the farmer now ripe and Jack had more than once puz- or anyone else.\ \ All right said Jack, and zled his br(lins about procuring some of it, if I don't make that ' watch' think the Old be it by ho\ok or crook. The difficulty was Harry himself is around, my name is Pants.\ you couldn't tell a ripe berry from a green So :maddened was the farmer when he one in the dark, and besides that the farmer thought of the trick that had been played on kept a \watch\ near the patch every night. him that he almost forgot his pron1ise,:tand Suddenly it da·wned upon Jack that by ap- sat up as watch himself, having for company pearing in the role of the ghost, he n1ight a well-developed bull-pup. No sooner had frighten the watch away and with the aid of our hero made his appearance and begun his a dark-lantern, procure the fruit at his pleas- ghostly manipulations than the dog loosened ure. Accordingly the experin1ent was tried by the wary ·watcher, uttered a low growl, and by a studied \ get up \ and a little man- and followed by the farmer, made a dash for ouvreing, the ghost made his appearance in the intruder. Now it didn't take Jack long the strawberry patch. Without waiting to to appreciate the situation, and leapit>lg the investigate matters, wit b his hair standing fence, he struck cut down the road at a rate on end and the cold sweat starting from of speed that would do credit to the Dol- every pore of his body, the ''watch\ took ph in. He haJ about a hundred yards start, the shortest w.ay home and left Jack in un- and rather trusted that the farmer would call disputed possession of the field. the dog back, seeing he retreated so hastily. What the worthy farmer said next morn- The rapid footfalls on the hard road behind ing when his \watch\ reported the encoun- him soon undeceived him, however, and as ter of the previous night is not known; for the seriousness of the situation flashed over he had heard of the ghost which had him, he redoubled his energies to escape. frightened the students, and being supersti- He thought of all the newspaper jokes he tious, was inclined to believe in it hin1self. had read about marauders of melon-patches How the mystery would have been solved, and bull-dogs; thought of the dog that said: but for Dick, is a not her unanswered q~1es- \ 0 keep your seat\ to the tramp as he dis- tion. engaged his teeth from the trarnp's rear and Jack's humorous a<count of this last ex- allowed him to disappear over the orchard ploit, and the general success of the ghost, fence; even found time to wonder if this dog

THE CONCORDIENSIS. caught him would he, like Shylock, proceed to take just a pound of flesh, or would he want to chew his whole corpus. All these thoughts passed through his mind with lightening-like rapidty, and thei dog still hung behind him. Had his foot slipped on a bananna peel, had he suddenly been strick- en by the cholera, had his left lung refused to perforn1 its accustomed duty in separating out the oxygen needed to prolong this rapid running, the s~ory I am now telling would have had a sad, sad ending. At any rate, just then the dog grabbed him right where a. dog always grabs, and with a yell of agony, Jack fell to the ground with the dog on top. How much of him next m.orning would have been left is hard to predict, had not so·meone beaten off the dog and hustled Jack away before the farmer came up. That someone was Dick. He had anticipated some fun that night and had stealthly followed Jack to wit- ness it. Horror struck at finding the farmer had taken such barbarous means to rid him- self of his midnight visitor, Dick set out in pursuit of the dog and arrived just in time (as all heroes do) to save his friend fron1 be- ing masticated. \Don't say a word about it. and I'll ex- plait),'' said Dick when Jack questioned him as to his presence at the seen e of the retreat. He did explain and begged Jack's pardon, but laughed as though he would like to kill himself when he thought how Jack did \leg it '' \vith that ferocious bull-pup behind him. The whole story leaked out in a day or two and for about a week or so Jack was very careful about sitting down. Whenever he did sit down in the presence of the fellows someone was sure to say: \ Say Jack, don't you want my seat ? \ or some similar grind. As he failed to procure the berries the un- dignified nickname of'' Pants \ stuck to him for the rest of his course, and whenever the fellows wished to plague him they would ask him \If he ever saw a ghost?\ At a general college meeting, held May 19, it was resolved to give the board of edi- tors of the Concordiensis power to elect one of their number to the position of editor-i~­ chief for the succeeding year. In accord- ance with this resolution, F. S. Randall, '86, has been elected for the following year. This afternoon there came to me by mail, A little box with perfume so replete, That e'en before I opened it, I knew The contents could be nothing else but flowers. Inside, upon a bed of mignonette, .. And fringed by lillies of the valley sweet, I found the brightest and the loveliest Arra.y of pansie~ I had ever seen. Although she wrote me nothing to explain The gift, the modest lillies of the valley, Ar1d each homely little pansy's face prodailned The pure unchanging love of her who sent them; Reminded me that while she bore her lot Of care, and that, although between us stretcl1ed The distance of full many a weary mile, She had remernbered me, and sent tne thus These tender messengers to bear her love. And how do I so readily discern My dear one's love just fron:1 a box of flowers? Wen, she has never told me in plain words Of l1er affection; but her kind regard For all I've done an<.. do, her constancy, And deep devotion to my worthless self, Reveal her love to me as clear as day. And these above all else I'm sure she'd choose Her fair and sweet embassadors of love- My n1other always was so fond of flowers. LOCAL. The Seniors are taking their vacation. Commencement will be held in the First Presbyterian church, June 24. The following is a quotation: ''Work has begun on the depot at Schenectady.\ Prof. Wells has favored the seniors with a few lectures on ''Topics of the Day.'' Several of the C. E.'s will spend the sum- mer in Dorp, working upon its sewers. The usual entrance exan1inations will be held June 25 and 26, and Sept. 14 and I 5. All who have not yet paid their subscrip- tion, please make it a point to settle this week. The Freshmeo are to shoot a match with the Citizen's Corps, at the State range in Niskayuna, June I 3· The n1ower is seen occasionally on the campus, and the men are busy putting the grounds in order for commencement.

: l THE CONCORDIENSIS. Prof. Wells lectured on Victor Hugo May 25 to the Sophomore and a part of the Fresh- man classes. Prof. Staley gave an exhibition and lecture on the principal buildings of the world before the Seniors and their friends. Prof. Perkins intends taking a trip to Can- ada in a few weeks. We hadn't heard of his election to the superintendency of a Sunday school. A fine view is commanded fr0111 the roof of North -College. ·Several residents of N. S. were observed a few days since taking ad- vantage of this fact.. Again ea.ch class \moved up\ one divis- ion of seats, and '8 5 \ moved out.\ Be sure to cut your name under that ..ofsorne popular man ; there is 1 uck in it. Lieut. Ira Hollis, 'U. S. N., formerly Prof. at Union, has been ordered to report to the Flagship Hartford of the Pacific squadron, now at San Fraucisco, Cal. Futnble the balls and muff the flies, Throw low, and make errors dozen-wise, Always stdke out, ·when at bat, every time, And you'll-be fit to play with the 'VarRity nine. -.Acadenzica. An entertainn1ent \Vas, given at Union Hall May 6, in which several students ap- peared. The principal n1ale characters were . Thqmson, Fowler, McClellen, Very and . Russell. It was uncomfortably cold when the gan1e of\ R. P. I. vs. U. C\ was called, and the \vay in wh.ich the former walked away w1th the lattet: was still n1ore chilly. :For lack of space \ve omit the score. The first five innings of the gan1e between Cornell and Union were as p~rfectly played~ as one could wish. The new members of our nine distinguished then1selves, \vhile the old ones greatly improved their past record. About a dozen Union n1en witnessed the game between Williams College and the ~~­ ban ys. It resulted in a victory of 6 to 5 1rt favor of Willian1s. For fear that Williams might lose her brilliant record Union kindly refuses to play her this season. The .following metn bers of the senior class have been appointed to the commencen1ent stage: Bailey, Bishop, Crane, Egelston, Griswold, Hutchinson, Mitchell, Richards, Stryker and Terrill. The Phi Beta Kappas are Bailey, Bishop, Griswold and Mitchell. 'fhere are two houses on N ott Terrace that join and look very n1uch alike ; one is a boarding house, the other is not. If the man from- South Coliege would ren1ember that, he would henceforth avoid entering the wrong house, removing his hat and coat, and frightening the ladies by rushing in upon them while at supper. In glancing over the papers a few days since a line attracted our attention, which at first sight gave us the impression that Prof. Chap1in had received an offer from the Ri~ing Sun Stove Polish Co. Closer obser- vation, however, revealed the fact that the Emperor of Japan had conferred upon hitn the Order of the Rising Sun. Some disappointment has been experi · encecl by our students in the past in notre- ceiving their cotumcncement nun1ber of the Concordiensis. To obviate this we wish each one desiring it this season to write his P. 0. address plain I y and hand it to one of the editors before June 24; otherwise we will not consider nu.rsel ves respon£ible fori ts de- li very. \N edward,\ the college correspondent of the Albany Arg·us, apparently has a spite against the Co.,tcordit 1ts£s which he is en- deavoring to satisfy by slurring jt in the \notes\ which he contributes. This we infer fron1 an iten1 which recently appeared. Now,. if \Ned ward\ would use his energy in writing son1e article of interest for his college paper, instead of throwing n1ucl at it, the result could not fail to be n1ore satisfac- tory to all concerned. At the social given May 15 the following, among the ladies, were noticed : lVIrs A. T Veeder, Mrs. M. Perkins, Miss Furman, Miss Horstruan, Miss I..illie Ellis, Miss Mattie Ellis, Miss Beattie, Miss Van Vran- ken, Miss Vrooman, Miss Van Nostrand, Miss Jackson, Miss Yates, Miss Sprague, Miss Gilmour, Miss Grout, Miss Van Voast, Miss Moore, Miss Feltham, Miss Seymour, Mis·s Barhydt, Miss Goodrich, Miss Belle Carley, the Misses Perkins, the Misses Fran- chot,- Miss Montgomery, the lVIisses Curtis, and Miss Landon.

86 THE CONCORDIENSIS. Severa] windows in North college have as well as in interest. In spite of the fact been broken during the present season by that the sports were held on turf, the results ''foul tips,\ and we wou~d suggest to the were quite satisfactory. By far the most at- superintendent of buildings the propriety of tractive feature of the day was the pole vault providing: screens, which could be made at by Landon, '86. Ishkanian, '88, is a very trifling cost, to protect the windows behind easy long distance runner, \vinning both the the catcher during games. If a few, simi- one mile and the one-half mile races. Hun- Jar to those put in the gymnasiun1, and which · sicker, '88, did well for a small boy. The could be readily slipped into place before each result of the day is as follows: One hun- game we~re made, the cost would probably. dred yard dash, Randall, '86; one mile dash, be realized in the saving of the an1ount Ishkanian, 'S8; pole vault, Landon, '86; usually expended in repa1ring broken win- throwing base ball, Hunsicker, '88; slow dows duning a single season. bicycle race, Tovvne, 'gg ; running broad The sophomore fraternity, Theta Nu Epsi- jurnp, Dorwin, '86; one-half mile run, Iska- lon, held its first annual convention at the • n1an, 'gg ; running high jun1p, Landon, Delavan house, Albany, Friday night. Del- . '86; I 20 yards, hurdles, Randall~ '86; Po- egates were present fron1 the following coll- tato race 1 Dorwin, '86 ; three-legged race, eges: Union, Hamilton, Syracuse univer- Dorwin, '86 aud Randall, '86. The band sity, Rensselaer Polytechnic institute, Cornell added greatly to the plP-asure of the day and and Wesleyan. The Union delegates were the committee of arrangen1ents are to be W. H. VanWie, J. T. B. Gilmour, J. E Clute · thanked for it. and Charles B Tenlpleton. Charters· for The surviving members of the Class of chapters at An1herst and Lafayette colleges '35 will celebrate the fiftieth anniversary were granted conditionally. 'fhe fraternity of the~r graduation this Cotnm· ncement \vas established about fifteen years ago. It with a re-union and banquet. The class now nu.mbers 354 active and 2 ,7 10 ·retired originally had I 15 members. Of these about members. The follovving officers were elect- thirty survive, most of whotn are expected ed: President, Charles B. Ten•pleton, Union; to attend the re-union. ~Among the sur- vice-president, E. N · Sanderson, Renssalaer viving members are: the Hon. John Bige- Polytechnic; secretary, J. M. Stevens, Wes- low, editor of the New Yor.k .E\vening Post, leyan; treasurer, F. A. Gardner, Hanlilton. Dr. John Foster, professor of natural philos- It was announced some time ago that the ophy at Union College, Charles Franchot, a standing of the men1bers of the graduating manufacturer of Syracuse, 'fhon1as Froth- class would not be made known before the ingham, a lawyer of Rochester, the Rev. Dr. first of June. This has not been customary Duncan Kennedy of Bloon1field, N. ]., the and was not very cordially received. Seve- R.ev Uriah Marvin of 'I'roy, Professor Jona- ral objections were raised. The names of than Pearson, professor of natural history at those to go on the stage could not be ob- Union the Rev. I~'. vV. I. Pollard of Cam- tained in time for publication upon the cards bridgeport, Mass., the Rev. Dr. Villeroy D. to be i~sued with the invitations; besides, R.eed, president of Alexandria College, too little. time for preparation would be Judge J an1es C. Sn1itb, J usttce of the Su- allowed to those who·· might be in doubt as prcme Court, who lives at Canandaigua, to stage appointment. A comn1ittee, there- Jasper Smith, formerly of Coeymans, now fore, appointed by the class, waited upon the· U. S. Consul to Nottingham, Eng., Dr. faculty and laid the case before the111. After Charles Stilln1an of Plainfield, N.J., and the considering the matter it was decided to Rev. Dr. Cornelius Van Santvoord of King- make up the standings for the course with- ston. out including the present term. The right, ==========================-· =========== however, \.vas reserved of making any changes which a difference in the tern1's ·marks might warrant. Field-day was quite a success financially The old name, Nassau Hall, Princeton, and the college colors, orange and black, perpet- uate the honor of King Willian1 III. of England.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. With dressing-gown and slippered feet, The Senior, in his ,easy chair, Care tluows asid ::, while visions sw~et Float thro' the smoke-wreaths in the air. Fixed is his gaze, but not, I ween, Upon the book which open lies; Now on his lips a smile is seen, Anon 'tis chased away by sighs. Oh, Senior grave, will to tne tell, What fancies now thy mind enthrall? Dost hear thy tones like tocsin bell, Ringing clear thro' court or hall? Dost dream of time in the future bdght When Fame shall own thee as a son? Leadest thou brave heroes to the fight, Where battles fought are battles won? No? Not of these thou dream'st? forsooth, I'll guess again: A maiden fair- A smile I see, I'tn near the truth- With rosy cheek and waving hair, Beside a hearth-stone, all thine own; While \Peace white-winged,'' smilest down. This is thy fancy, this alone; Then tnay success thy fond hopes crown. RoY, '85 lhe lnter-lollegiate lonte6t. The first m,eeting of the N. Y. State Inter- Collegiate association was held at Geneva, May 30. Representatives were present from Cornell, Hamilton, Hobart, Syracuse and Union. We give below the names of win- ners, their times, distances, etc., together with the seconds : THRO\VING BALL. VanAuken, Hamilton-3 IO ft. I I in.; M. W. Way, Hobart. . MILE W,.ALK. B. G. Brown, Syracuse-8 min. 26 sec.; J. G. Dudley, Hobart. RUNNING BROAD JUMP. W. A. Lathrop, Hamilton- I 8ft. 5 in.; H. W. Treat, Cornell. _ 440 YDS. DASH. D. M. Hinman, Cornell-57 4-5 sec.; MCJre, Hamilton-57~ sec. THROWING HAMMER. Ayres, Han1ilton -61 ft.; M. W. Way, Hobart. RUNNING HIGH JUMP. W. A. Lathrop, I-Iamilton-5 ft. 1 in.; G. McCann, CornelL · IOO YDS. DASH. D. M. Hinman, Cornell-- :10 3-'5 sec.; W. Heatley, Union. MILE RUN. H. E. Summers, Cornell-· 4 min. '55 sec ; Geo. O'Brien, Hobart. ~ MILE RUN. Summers, Cornell-2 ,min. 23 sec. STANDING HIGH JUMP. F. W. Coville, Cornell-4 ft. 2 in. 220· YDS. DASH. D. M. Hinman, Cornell-24 sec.; Wm. Heatly, .Union. 120 YDS. HURDLE. F. W. Coville, Cornell ; Wm Heat ley, Union. PUTTING SHOT. VanAuken, Han1ilton-31 ft. 6 in. POLE VAULT. Wn1. Landon, Union -7 ft. 9 in.; ·Karl Swartz, Syracuse. TWO~MILE BICYCLE RACE. F. W. Howard, ,Cornell-7 min. 49 sec.; W. T. Foote, Jr., Union. STANDIJ.'\G BROAD JUMP. E. W. Hawley, Hobart-g ft. 6 in, The prize ·for the one taking first place in the greatest nun1ber of events was a\varded to D. M. Hinman of Cornell, who won in three events. Cornell was awarded the cup offered the college taking the most prizes. The prizes for 1st and 2d places in each of the events were gold n1edals ; for I st in the mile walk, 440 yards dash, . roo yards dash, mile run, ~ mile run, 220 yards dash, 120 yards hurdle and 2 mile bicycle race, the value was $10. In the others, ~-s. Second in each, $5. lommunica.tion. \Ve give place to the following, which we received a few days ago : ScHENECTADY, N. Y., May, 18, 1885. SAMUEL MARSH, EsQ.: . Dear Sir-An intin1ation which has reached your friends he1·e that you propose retiring from the approaching contest for the alumni trustee~hip of Union College, prompts this hasty 1ette,r. In view of your well recognized and successful efforts in the cause of education and your active interest in and

88 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ======~==============~======================~~~====-- tokens a new era of prosperity to the college. But to attain that end, the earnest and united efforts of all her sons is aqsolntely essential. I am fully aware frotn . experience, that in a closely contested campaign, even with the best of feeling, how easy it is, when Old Union's children 1neet, to fotget restraint and allow the smouldering etnbers of former strife to be fanned into flame. I would consider myself an ungrateful SOll indeed, should any needless. <}Ction on tr).y part be attended with the possibility of such a result. Already having been favored by the graduates as their unanimous choice for the presidency of the Alumni Association, it would seem that another cogent reason exists for the withdrawal of my name as a can- didate for trustee .. knowledge of the affairs ot the college, a sufficient n utn- ber of tbe alumni in this city and vicinity supplied the votes necessary to place you in nomination. Although the .canvass has hardly commenced, numerous proxies have been received from nearly every class, beginning eady in the century and embracing a period of over . 6o ·years. While an enumeration of them is impossi- ble within the present lim.its, I would instance the votes of Judges Ruggles (21), Sutherland (24), Spier (32), Van Vor:..;t (39), Noyes of Massachu=\etts and Kk:kpatrick of New Jersey. Abo mnong your profes- sion in New York city a )pear the names of Chester A. , Arfthur, Mr. FuHerton, C. T. Cromwell, Isaac Dayton, C. A. Hand, W. C. Thorn, Silas W. Burt, B. A. Willis, John L. Hill, Arnos G. Hall, Hiram Barney, C. ~1. Ea:rle, and many others. I merely adduce th~se instan- ces to show. whatever differences may have divided your friends in fonner year;-;, they are NOW unanitnous in yout·support. In view of the flattering manifesta- tions of confidence on the part of the older alumni, coupled with the fact that the younger graduates for several years past, are almost unanimously in sympa- · thy with the ideas which you represent, and have looked upon you as their adviser and special friend, not only is your candidacy especially strong, but confirms us in the belief that to insure your election, you have only to consent to ren1ain in the field, and permit your frieads to tnuke the necessary efforts in your behalf. Yours, &c., JoHN A, DERElVIER. NEw YoRK, 1\rlay 19, 188s. HoN. JoHN A. DEREMEK: I.Jear Sir-Yours of the 18th inst . .is received. I would certainly esteetn it a great honor to be chosen by the alumni of Union College to represent tlwm as a member of the Board of Trustees. It is an honor which any graduate of Old Union might be proud to beat-, and I am profoundly grateful to those distin- g11ished gentlemen who have, so early in the contest, fonvarded their votes natning me as their choice. This expression of their confidence will Rtimulate me to renewed fidelity to the welfare of the institution to which I already o·we ~o much. I atn constrained, however, to perRist in my determi- nation to decline an election, and to withdraw my name as a candidate. Dr. P.R. Furbeck, who has also been placed in non1idation, is in every respect qualified for the position and will fill it with credit. 4e is a physician of high repute and is deservedly popular with his contemporariei'\, who, graduating at a period anterior to that which embraces the greater body of my associates, would be his supporters. These classes from 1850 to 186o have but a single representative in tlu~ Board of Trustees while the decade which follows 18.6o has already six. In pursuance of that idea I had urged the nomination of a distinguished graduate of ·51, Mr. James H. McClure of Albany, being not at that tirne aware that others had selected Dr. Furbeck, of about the same period of graduation, and unaware also that any of tny friends were advocating my own nomination. Although personally unacquainted with Dr. Furbeck, I have long been cognizant of his efforts to elevate the standard of our college, and his ideas as to the conduct of the atJairs of the institution have always been iden- tical with my own. Therefore, no issue presents itself, aud the necessity for two candidates does not now exist. The present is a time of tranquility in college affairs, and I believe the existing hannony be- I would t11erefore sug:gest, subject to the discretion of the inspectors, and the assent of those who have ah·ead y cast their ballots for me, that such votes be either ·withheld or cast for D-r. Furbeck, and that his election he rnade unanin)ous. Yours respectfully, SAM VEL lVIARSH. F'El\pO)'!fiL. '85. Ray, having completed his course, has gone to his home in S. C. '86. Haslett spent a few days with his classn1ates not long ago. '87. DeForest, who went home on account of sickness, has returned. V'82. Murray has just graduated from the Theological Sen1inary at Co hun bia, and has been licensed to preach by the Charl~ston ( S. C.) Presbytery. '78. Duane and Maxon have n1ade short visits to the hill. '78. E. P. Fish has just rett:trned fron1 a trip thrqugh the west. '78. W. ~--. Lansing spent a few days in Schenectady last week. '8o. R. T. S. Lowell called on his friends here a sliort time ago. tJi2. Wiswall is engineering at Milton, Saratoga Co., N. Y. '84. Daily, McEncroe, Young, Mynderse, Dent and Heatly are in Schenectady spend- ing .. their vacation. J.8 5 Terrill has recently been. appointed principal of the High school at Little Neck, ~~I. V '67. E. 1~roope Martin died at Saranac Lake Saturday, May 23, '85. He leave~ a wife and two children. His wife is the only daughter of Judge Lyman Tremaine.

THE CONCORDIENSlS. '40. S. S. Norton passed through Sche- nectady two wee~s ago .on his way to Brook-- lyn, where he resides. v '48. P. Ripley is now connected with the editorial board of the· N. Y. l¥orld. 'so. L. Thon1son and family are traveling in the west. They are now at Denver, Col. I' s6. Alex. Hadden is a prominent ph ysi- cian in N. Y. city. V '59· Carmichael has been elected the first mayor-· of An1sterdam, N. Y. ( )68 Louis Evans is designing engineer for Cofrod and Sayler, I)hila, Pa. · l\'jo. C E. Moore is the chief engineer on the Wabash & St. Louis Pacific R. R. He designed the celebrated St. Charles bridge on that road. , '46. Rev. Dr. Welch, forn1erly professor at Union, now of Au burn Theological Sen1inary has been engaged to supply the vacant pul- pit of the Refurrned Church of Syracuse, N.Y. '54· Fur beck has been non1inated for the office of trustee, in place of LaMott Rhodes, whose term of office expires in June. t/'84. Chisholm has opened an engineering office at Aspen, Col. V' 39· L.yman C. Felch died at his hon1e at ·'Castile, N. Y., May r, '85. He was a phy- sician of wide reputation and had a large practice. . Js3. J. V. W. Lansing has ju~t graduated fron1 the N. Y. Medical College. V 84. J. S. Bishop is studying law at Lyons, N.Y. '83. Wright has been visiting in Schenec- tady during the past week. '82. The n1arriage of Rev. Frank I-I. Wright to a Saratoga lady, which was an- nounced some time ago, took place at the brides home May ·14. The Rev. Allen Wright, '52, father of the groon1, tiPd the knot. The ushers were : J. \V. Lester, '8 I, F. W. Cameron, '8r, F. W. Ray, '85, C. B. McMurray, '87, and }\'. X. Ransdell, '87. Quite a large number of friends fron1 Sche- nectady were present. 0so. Dr. Henry Benjan1in Whiton died at his residence Saturday. afternoon from nerv- ous prostration, which followed the death of a favorite son several years ago, and which assumed a serious forn1 about seven weeks before Dr. Whiton's death. Dr. Whiton was born in Lee, Mass., in I 827, and wa$. a graduate of Un:on and the Albany Medi~al , collftge. He firs~ practiced n1edicine in El- mira, going frotn ·that city to Troy about I 857. At the breaking out of the \Var he ~n­ listed at 'Troy as assistant surgeon in the Second New York regiment, and was subs·e- quently promoted to surgeon of the Sixtie):h New York regiment. He ren1ained in the service until the close of war, doing duty in 1nany of the important battles, and accoin- panying Sherman in his march to the s~a. When peace was declared, Dr. Whiton re- turned to Troy, resuming his practice a~d taking charge of the Troy hospital. Twelre years he was an attending physician at the Marshall infirmary. He was a member of the Rensselaer County Medical society, twice serving as president, a n1ember of the State Medical society and a curator of the Albany Medical college. lrder oft fjxerci6e6 :For §ommencement 8eek . ......-(!)(!) ....... Sunday, June 2 1-Baccalaureate sern1on by Rev. Dr. Ecob of Alhany at 7:30 p. m., in First Presbyterian Church. Monday, June 22-Grove Exercises in the College Garden at 10:30 p. n1. ; Class-day Exercises at 7:30 p. m., in the First Presby- terian Church. Tuesday, June 23 -Meeting of the Phi Beta Kappa Society, at 8:30 a. n1., in No. 4 S. Colonnade. Meeting of Alumni Associa- tion with election of Alnn1ni Trustee at 10 a. m., in the Chaoel. Alun111i Collation at .L • r:I 5 p.m., in Alumni and lVIemorial Hall. Prize Speaking of Juniors and Sophon1or~s at 7:30 p. m., in J:i'irst Presbyterian Church. Wednesday, June 24-Commencement at 10 a. m., in First Presbyterian Church. The Chancellor's Address will be delivered by Hon. David Murray, LL.D. of Albany. Commencement Reception from 8 to I o p. in , at President Landon's house.

il 1,HE CONCORDIENSIS. ------- ---~-------------------, ------------------------- -------- In Ucmoriam. At a meeting of the Fortnightly Club of. Saratoga Spt.ings, held May 2, 1885, the fol- lowil}g J!)inute, prepared by E. P. Howe, A·nnie M. Spence and W. R. Terrett, a com- nTittee appointed for that purpose was or- · dered to _be spread upon the records of the club and sent to the newspapers printed in Saratog~ Springs, Mechanicville, Schenec- tady and Potsdarp, for publication : . :~'In the death of the Reverend Giles P. · H~awley, the Fortnightly Club of Saratoga. S.pri-ngs has· sustained an irreparable loss, and its members have been filled with inex.., pressiLle grief. Mr. Hawley was the first president of this club and to his zeal, wis- donl. 1->atience and devotion, its firm estab- . lisht11ent and a large measure of its useful- ness _are due. In the character of our cherished and honored friend who has passed before us d1rough the shadow into the Eternal Light, we ever recognized only those pure and lofty traits which mark the truest and most perfect type of the Christian gen- .tle man. With great natural endowments, strengthened and cultivated by self-disci- phne and conscientious and assiduous study, his intellectual equipm,ent was such that he becatne easily our wise and skillful leader along the paths and through the mazes where he had first found, and then showed us the lvay. A n1aster of the knowledge acquired bv men, clear to the utmost boundaries which the strongest n1inds have reached in their farthest flight, he was yet a learner who saw and felt the lirr:its of the known, if not of the knowable, and paused in humble adoration before the brightness of the be- yond, recognizing that there, also, God dwells, in the Light that our finite vision may see but cannot pierce. With great pa- tience did he lead us on in the, to him, familiar ways, broadening our intellectual and spiritual horizons and giving us glilnpses through new vistas where visions of the true and the beautiful ever quickened all noble aspirations. With unflagging zeal and un- failing tact did he labor for the welfare of this organization, a light in the darkness and a guide in the light, ever giving us words of of cheer, commendation and encouragen1ent, hims\.!lf doing whatever we had left undone, and rna king each meeting a storehouse of garnered treasures frotn which was brought away not only shining m-emories but also rich gems of knovyledge and of truth. \And now, as his name is placed upon our reco-rds in farewell, we pledge our own earn- est endeavors and our no less earnest admon- itions to those who come after us, to main- tain the organization ofthe Fortnightly Club as a perpetual and living monument to its chief founder and guide.\ ~~E have received from the publishing Y house of Funk & Wagnalls, 10 and 12 ·~t~· Dey St., N. Y., an .especially useful L . book for students-. the Hoyt-- Ward Cyclopedia of Quotations. The book contains a11 alphabetically arranged list of subjects: .i\s Art, Ambition, Belief, Doubt, Dreams, Hope, Love, etc., with appropriate quotations upon each fron1 the most cele- brated authors. In addition it contains a list of Latin quotations, Spanish, Portugese and Italian proverbs, together with copious and well arranged indexes, n1aking an ex- ceedingly handy book for thos~ writing ora- tions, essays, etc. Neatly bound in cloth, $5 ; in sheep and tnorocco, $6. 5o and $I o. Outing for June opens with an illustrated - article, '\Ten Days in Holland and West- phalia.\ The article is written in a lively ntanner, and along with the incidents and adventures of the Veloce Club, gives many of the interesting customs and characteristics of the Dutch people. The July is-sue of Outing, to be published on June I 5, will be partie ularly interesting to students, and all friends of recreation at the colleges. It will be profusely illustrated by prominent artists. There will be a group of three important papers on physical educa- tion in the colleges, by Professor Hitchcock of Amherst, Professor Richards of Yale, and Dr. U. A. Sargent of Harvard - - - Te bchori{< 11J bn4ted 1 8 Principals, r r Assi.stants, a ~lll'p VY a u • and a number for Mustc, also Art and Specialties. Send stamp for application foi·m and circulars of infornation to NATION .\L SCHOOL SUPPLY BUREAU, Mention thit~ paper. CHICAgo, ILL.

VOL. VIII. COMMENCEMENT NUMBER, 1885. NO. g. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY . THE STUDENTS oF UNION CoLLEGE. ::90~::0 OF E::OI:TO~S. J. T. MoREY, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF. A. C. EGELsToN, '85, . AssociATE F. s. RANDALL, '86, LITERARY H. J. COLE, '86, PERSONAL T. R. WooDBRIDGE, '86,} E. M. CAMERON, '87, LocAL G. D. BuEL, '87, WILLIAM HuTCHINSON, BusiNESS EDITOR. TERMS, $I.SOPER YEAR, IN ADVANCE We desz're mtr frz'ends to ,~;;end us contributions, _items of z'1zterest and in(ornzatz'on co?zcenu'ng· Alumnz'. All business letters should be addressed to the Bztsz'- 'ltess Edz'tor. E1ttered at t!te Postoffice, Schenectady, N. Y., as second-class matter. PRINTED BY CHAS. BURROWS, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. §ommencement l,ixerci6e6. ~OMMENCEMENT exercises were in- ~ augurated by the delivery of the bacca- j laureate Sermon Sunday evening, June 21, by the Rev. Dr. Ecob of Albany. . The speaker took for his subject tl~e Eternal Yea, basing his sern1on upon texts found in Geneses,. Romans and Corinthians. The. address although of a philosophical character, was listened to with the closest attention by the audience which completely filled the church. . ··· .. Monday morning. the GROVJE·. EXERCISES were held under ·the. old elm in Jackson's Garden. The cotnmittee in char·ge had been somewhat dilatory in making the arrange- ments;, but all hands taking- hold, seats were soon provided for the guests, and a platform extemporized for the speaker. . Excellent music was furnished on this occasion as dur- ing the week by . Parlatti's orchestra of Albany. The Pipe oration, by Lewald, was followed by the Ivy poem, by McSorley. This was received with hearty applause. Fowler delivered the Ivy oration in his inin1itable manner; after \vhich followed the Ivy song, and the planting of the class ivy. The ivy had been procured a few week before and rooted in the place in which it was intended to remain. It had already made a growth of several feet, but as the one who had trans- planted it was not present, some delay was ·caused in finding it. After each member of the class had as,sisted in piling up or pulling down a spadefull of soil from its roots, all dispersed in happy anticipation of the CLASS-DAY EXERCISES to be held in the evening. At 8 o'clock P. M. Vice-President Bond, in the absence of the president, opened the exercises with an an atldress of welcome- short but to the point.. The oration which appears elsewhere was delivered by Terrill and was well received by the audience; following this was the poem by Bishop. While we think Mr. Bishop was rather harsher in one or t\VO instances than the circumstances required, his poem was excel- lent. All who had expected something good from Foote were not disappointed; his his- tory bringing before the minds of his class- mates the experiences of their college life as clearly, almost, as though they were again being lived. While none were very highly elated with the prospects in store for them, as revealed by Bailey in his prophecy, all were amused by the fates of the rest. Mun- sell's address was well written and perfectly con1mitted. We think, however, that the delivery would have been improved if he had spoken n1ore in his natural tone. Taken all in all, the class-day exercises of '8 5, were superior to those given by any class in the past decade. Tuesday morning the campus assumed a lively appearance, dotted with groups of

THE CONCORDIENSIS. alumni, shaking hands and exchanging congratulations. At ten o·c1ock the trustees met in the . Power's buildingJ J. Trumbull Backus pre- siding, H on. Hooper C. Van Vorst, was elected to fill the vacancy caused by the res- ignation of Howard Potter. It was resolved to invite to the presidency of the college the Rev. Dr. Joseph T. Duryea of Boston. At the alumni meeting held in the chapel, San1ue-l Marsh of New York, presided and A. J. Thom~on of Schenectady, acted as. secretary. When the ballots for alumni· trustee had been counted, it was found that out of the 737 cast_, Dr. P. R. Fur beck of Gloversville, N. Y., had received 620, the • remaining being scattering. THE ALUMNI BANQUET was under the charge of a committee ap- pointed by the alumni at their meeting last year, of which Judge Yates of Schenectady, was chairman. To meet the expenses, all alumni partaking were assessed one dol~ar. It seetned hardly just that the graduating class, in addition to the fee den1anded for graduating, should be compelled to pay for their dinner, but the authorities refused to adn1it them on any other condition. In the evening followed the PRIZ.E SPEAKING of the juniors and sophon1ores. This event was far from being as satisfactory as it would have been, had the speakers properly pre- pared themselves. No one should think of going before the public to deliver his ad- dress without being able to recite it unhesi- tatingly in private at least. Nothing per- haps is n1ore disagreeable to an audience than to be in constant fear that the speaker is about to break down. Cameron, who gave the first of the sopho- more orations, on \Gladstone's Pclicy,\ was free from this fault, however, and spoke effectively and without the least hesitation. Johnson followed, having for his subject, \Hugo.\ 1\lfr. Johnson had excellent contr?l of his voice and gestures as w·ell as of hts subject, and it was a genuine surprise to the majority oft he audience when it was learned that he had not only failed to receive first P rize. but had not even come in for second. M~Millen, on \Arctic Heroes,\ broke down and was obliged to leave the stage. Very, came next with an oration on \The Patriotic Philanthropist.\ Although this speaker hesitated soi.newhat a few times, his voice and general deli very were good. Blessing, led the juniors in \Aspirations of ,.frue Greatness.\ It was evident also that he aspired to the first prize, and many were not surprised that he took it. Dorwin, \elucidated the problems''' of \The Impending Crisis.~·' The subject was ably handled, the speaker doing justice to both himself and subject. Landon, closed the exercises with a \Change in Administration.'' The oration was full of common-sense, and although fron1 in1perfect comn1ittal the speaker was obliged to omit several sentences, it was done so cleverl v that few noticed it. The \'exercises of COMMENCEMENT DAY passed off without a break, and in a ll1anner satisfactory to all. The orators were Frank Bailey,\ The Mediaeval Universitiesofire- land ; \ A. B. Bishop, \Religious Liberty· arid the Constitution of the United States ;\ A. C. Eg~lston, \ America's Ultimate Seat of Power;\ William Hutchinson, \Hug-o as a Reformer;\ Edwin Mitchell, \ Louis Napoleon ;\ E. Terrill, \Prince Bismarck's Work ;'' and I-I. D. Griswold, Valedictory. Following this, was the Chancellor's ad- dress by the Hon. David Murray, LL. D., of Albany. The orations were all excep- tionally well written and delivered. The various prizes were then awarded as follows: Warner cup, senior prize for performance of duty ; H. D. Griswold. Ingham money award, $70, senior essay prize, W. C. Mills. Blatchford n1edals, senior oratory prizes, first Edward Terrill; second, Alvin B. Bishop. Allen money awards of $25, $20 and $15, senior prizes for essays on any subJect. First, W. F. Richards, second, George W. Barhydt, thirdJ J. T. Morey. The junior oratory prizes were a warded as follo\vs : First, Frank F. Blessing, second, W. P. Landon. The first sophomore prize for oratory was (' . 1 , ~ : '

THE CONCORDIENSIS. given to Edward D. Very and the second to Edward M. Cameron. The following honorary degrees \vere con- ferred. LL D.: E. P. Waterbury, president of the State N orn1al school at Albany, Judge A. Bockes of Saratoga. · · DD.: the Rev. J. G_ Lansing, professor in the theological seminary of the Reformed church at New Brunswick, N. J ., F. Savage of Newburgh, D. N. VanDerveer, Brooklyn. A. M.: H. Darrow, Kingston~ W. S. Chaplin, professor at Union college. -------------------- -·--- BY J· J. MCSORLEY. I. Friends, classmates, we are met to-day Beneath these leafy bow'rs, To brighten still, while yet we tnay, Our few retnaining hours; To listen to the carols sweet That through these branches ring, And h.ear the brooklet at our feet Its deeper numbers si~g. II. Though oft we're roamed these haunts before, A charm that's eve-r new Around each tiny blade and spear Will live for me and you; When our returning footsteps press This gentle yielding sod, When youth gives way to agedness And we are nearer God. III. 0, may we oft in future years Our college days live o'er, When hopes ran high, and few the fears Our youthful bosoms bore. And as we in the Atttumn store The harvest's golden sheaves, So 1nay we in our life-books bind Fond mem'ries garnered leaves. IV As bright the beauteous sunlit sph~res Illume the realm.s ofnight, So will the future from these years Receive a living light; Reflecting o'er our paths a glow However rough they be, To cheer life's journey here below And gladden all we see. v. For those who've left our ranks, the vale Of deatp to journey through, We'll twine the rose and lily pale With sprays of greenest hue, And cast them o'er this lov'd spot Their .earthly footsteps pressed In garlands for the unforgot, In the still land at rest. VI. 'Tis pleasant oft in the past to dwell, To find son1e calm retreat Where still the old-time fountains well, And tnerry streamlets fleet; Wl}ei·e age the burden of its years In joyfulness lays down, And sorrow thtough its crystal .tears But sees life's promised crown. VII. So may our present be a past To years as yet untold, As bread upon life's waters cast Returning n1any fold; And may these times enacted o'er The chords of mem'ry thrill With music sweeter than before, With Yisions brighter still. VIII. Dear classtnates while we're 1net to-day Old tnetn'ries to revive, / We'll plant with joy the ivy sprav, That blooms for Eighty-five; · And as an offering now we bring Unto its honored shrine A legend, that the ancients sing, Of Grecia's sacred vine. IX. In ages past, the bard relates, When Dionysius swayed The sceptre of the classic states That sea and land obeyed, A stranger ship, with pirate crew, Bore down upon the strand, Where rose up in the distance blue A pr01nontory grand. X. Ar;d from its crest a comely youth M1ld on the sea looked down, He loved the sullen crags uncouth That on the breakers frowned; Nor feared he as this stranger craft Cast anchor in th.e bay, For all around the wavelets laughed, And drove his cares away. XL There soon was sent unto the shore A trusty. pair, to bring Back to the ship this youth that bore The ilnpress of a king. As gazed he o'er his sea-girt state Among the Isles of Greece, He heard the messengers of fate Break in upon his peace. 93

J ·' 94 l ' ' ~ . THE CONCO·RDIENSIS. XII. \Come gentle youth, whiTe day is bright,. And with out crew make rnerry, They're amchored in yon ftiendly bight, Whence came this little wherry. A messenger of welcome sem t With right .good wishes weighted, That tarries but for thy consent To spread its wings elated.\' XIII. Then straightway stepped into the keel This youth of noble heart, And soon the eddies madly -wheel- From stern to shore depart- As onward speeds the wherry light Toward the dark-hued craft,. At anchor in the waters bright That sparkle fore and aft. XIV. '' Bind him fast,\ the captain cried, When on the deck he stood ... And soon a dozen hands su,pplied The power to make it good. They bound him firmly to the mast, No protest would avail, They raised the anchor, made it fast, And with their prize set sail, XV. Scarce had they left the tranquil bay When dark clouds 'bove them massed, As if some fell destruction. lay O'er cordage, sail and tnast; And hollow, from the vaults of air, A mighty voice did sound, Commanding, ?-nd the lightning's glare Revealed the youth unbound. XVI. As terror-struck, the faithless crew Their path sought to retrace, Behold! full o'er the rigging grew, In beauteous twining grace, The ivy sacred to the god Whom they had captive made, And uow, as captives at his nod, Stood they in awe dismayed. XVII. And by decree great Bacchus spake, 'I'hey roam the sea fore'er As dolphins, followed in their wake By sharks, pursuing e'er. A legend each succeeding age Will cherish more and more Till friendship in the haunts of men Exist forevermore. XVIII. Then sing to-day the ivy vine We to old Union bring, 0, may it e'er in beauty twi:ne And fond its branches cling Unto her walls like memories bright, That we will oft recall, . When past and present here unite In friendship's sacred thrall. BY J. J. MCSORLEY. (AIR-America.) I 0, Alma Ml:lter, dear, Thy children gathered here Join in thy praise. Loudly now let us chant, As we our ivy plant; And link in adamant These golden days. II. Here may it find a home 'Neath old Memorial's dome, Honored for aye. ,. May loving fingers guide Its branches far and wide, Till 'round on every side Its leaflets play. III. What though the storm doth rave, Know we kind Heaven will save Old Union's vine; Long may its lustre green On her grey walls be seen, May it each furrow screen- Each aged line. IV. When future years shall call 'Round this time-honored hall '' Old Eighty-five,'' May it full numbers bring, May it as fondly sing, Still to ol.d mem'ries cling- For Union strive. The college treasurer, a· few days ago, received $1,200 from a son of the Hon. Francis N. Mann, of 'Troy, N. Y., who is executor of his father's will. Mr. Mann was a men1ber of the cl~ss of'25, died about three years ago, and left a clause i~ his \Vill be- queathing this money to the college. Mr. Mann was an enthusiastic supporter ofU nion all his life, was always pr~sent at commence- ments and assen1blies of the alumni, and dip what he could by word and deed to further the interests of the college. Let this only be the initiatory' of such acts. ...

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 95 lla~6 Oration. EDWARD TERRILL. (SuBJECT-Ackieve11t.e?zts .) ~ E are often rap. tin awe as we con~enl­ plate the grandeur of human ach1eve- t T -, h . h' j men s. · , ere Is a secret son1et -1ng, about their accomplishrnent, which -seems mysteriously hidden from the gaze of dl e comn1on world ; yet, there has been no s. upernatural power displayed, there bas been no inte-rvention. No new forces have been created ; but those at com~mand have been ,combined, shaped, controlled, with wisdom of design. These forces, in- finite in number and variety, ever exist alike in the reaJm of thought, and in the world without,waiting to be utilized or idly rejected and thrown aside. In the majestic strides of science and civilization through the cen- . turies, we see the precision with which - effects follow their ,causes, as unmistakably· as we trace it in the unfolding flower, or in the influence, which preserves forever the spheres in their serene and shining path- ways. A history of acbievements is a history of the race,. teaching over and over again the same lessons. Here, in one chronicle, we read of a bard who, if known in after ages, his song must come from his or the nation \s heart. There is no artificiality in it. The charactec of the times suggested the theme, and the one appointed by nature, told it in lines that time could not efface. In another place, we· read of a people battling ag;ainst wrongs and oppression. At the hour of.supre me peril, a chieftain ap- pears \-v.bose life of devotion to the arts of war has fitted hin1 pre-en1inently for their leader. :He brings victory to their standards, and fam,e touches his name with in1n1ortality. Though in the dim twilight, beyond the farther verge of history, flomer chanted his epic, yet his name and work are as imperish- able-as the stars. Sane ambition does not aspire to such an achievement as this; yet, success in every .sphere is likewise achieved by doing: with might that which one is ap- pointed and ordained by nature to do. In- dividuality., natural-capabilities, appointed- task, reign in them all. For, there is born in each one an aptitude, which utilized be- co~es a triumphant superiority. To each nature and constitution a work is given, in which success and distinction can be obtained if the voice of nature is obeyed. This adaptability to a work is one's genius. At first, it is a capacity for the discipline of the fac.~lties by those. things in hannony with the1r nature, which strengthens and invig- orates them, and they become a potent energy in their adapted sphere of action. Enough, to be working in the right direction, assured that just appreciation will neither fah~r nor fail. Self-trust stands out in every achievement, and those who fail, find that \doubts are traitors, and make us lose the good we oft might win by fearing to attempt.\ To him who has found his work, and is pursuing it with energy and zeal, the hours will not be unwelcome visitors, but each moment will be used with \miser care.\ Time quietly brings its rich gifts and oppor- tunities. It is voiceless. If too ambitious to. heed its n1essage and accept its gifts, it wlll go away to find those \vorthier and wiser. If at one's best task, it will often come in solitude. In abandonment, the masterpieces of painting and sculpture have received their most delicate and exquisite touches, and the mind born its richest fruit- age, to enrich art and adorn literature. In some lone garret, in some sequestered nook, the poet's soul has poured forth its sweetest melody, and the richest gems have been brought from the recesses of the mind. At the entrance to the workshop of genius at- tention stands, refusing to admit the garish into its sacred precincts. Only vvhen the soul in communion with itself awakens fron1 its slumber and summons all its energies for a mighty effort, can there step forth-the work of consummate skill. To achievements there is no primrose way. They, only, conquer who clin1b the rugged steeps. Genius is no talismanic wand that can convert in to reality the pictures which fancy paints. But the lives of illustrious men are replete with evidence, that there can be no greatness without industry. To this, Michael Angelo attributed his great- ness. Rising at midnight to begin his task, and applying hirnself to its accomplishment with matchless energy and vigor. The

·THE CONCORDIENSIS. forest-born De,uosthenes, by unceasing ef- forts conquered an impediment in his speech, and by his glowing and patriotic eloquence becan1e the greatest of Gre8ian orators. But why cite these two examples? The hand of industry is in every achievement. From her regal seat she waves the sceptre of progress, her name is written in every work in characters of living light. When the task is long and difficult, perseverance calls the will into exercise as a stimulus to continued exertions. Will, is the centre of the practical man. By it, circumstances which overwhelm and engulf the weak are shaped and controlled to do its bidding. It decides who shall govern and who shall be governed. When the ends to be reached are determined, with directness and vigor it takes the shortest path to their accomplish- tnent; allowing nothing to swerve it from its purpose. What position so in1 pregnable that can withstand the giant energies of the will? The choice of ends the purposes stamp the character of the work and life. If the ends are unworthy, if the mainsprings of action are selfish, that work and life cannot but be ignoble. The fountain will send its in1pure waters through all the streams that have in it their origin. But, if guided by purity of purpose, nobility will clothe the work and life, and their influence keep fadeless as the ivy in the memories of a greatful posterity. With all the centuries of progress lying be- hind us, the future is as rich jn opportunities as the past. To the faint-hearted, the thresh- old of the futqre may be as the verge of chaos; but, the mists disappear before the men upon whom industry has set her seal,-be- fore men of purpose. Through the riven clouds, they see endless lines of activity, in long perspective, stretching out into the busy world, inviting to fields where indi- viduality reigns, and where the best efforts of the faculties, of every nature, of every constitution, are called forth. The world, to-day, as much as ever, needs rnen who will uphold justice, help to· reform abuses, elevate the masses, and aid the progress of humanity, the dignity and worth of the individual man. There are newer and better ideas of art to be carried into higher perfec- tion, literature to be enriched, the faith to be defended from the fearful invectives hurled against it. He who loiters and refuses the gifts and privileges of the hour, tnust find hi.m.self distanced in the race, for pro- gress onward wheels her triumphal car; \Men may come and men may go, but the work of reform goes on forever.'' land om lhought6 on our la6t and luture. DEAR CLASSMATES AND FRIENDS: 'Tis with some trepidation I greet you to-night. Through my senior vacation A terrible nighttnare has haunted my dreams, Robbing sleep of its restfulness, and, as it seems, Like a shadow has followed me, also, by day, And my once faithful Pegasus frightened away. (By this natne, you rnust know, that we poets, some- tilnes, For classic effect, or the sake of our rhyt-nes, -'Tis an old trick of poets and no innovation- Call on genius or rnuse for divine inspiration. And you fellows just starting along in your course, Don't dare make that pun and say its a \horse.\) Well; thiE. nocturnal steed, of the feminine sex, Your bard's righteous spirit continued to vex, Until two days ago, when I mounted her back, And rode her to death on her own beaten track. Her form was \ repulsive \ and \ galvanic shocks\ She shook fr01n her mane, Oh ! the \jars \ and the knocks, As she hurled n1e to \ earth '' in ''disruptive dis- charge,\ She's a terrible beast to be roaming at large. But, at last, I have conquered, in spite of her tricks, If the ''Chaps'' who had charge of her give me a \ six.\ My Pegasus, then, or my muse, having fled, I fell to a vigorous sera tching of head, In hopes to recall-him or her, shall I say;- To furnish the theme of this fast-cmning day. '' With only two days left, and not a line penned, 0, where in the world will our indolence end? Come, 1nuse, let us launch into song, instantaneous, ... And please, or displease, with verse extemporaneous.'' Then \vhispered my tnuse, fair inspirer of dreams, ''Random thoughts of our future and past, be your theme.'' But, first, of the past; for the past has a power, As of channs, on our ·thought .. Being dead it yet speaks, And Memory lives when fair Hope is no tnore. .•.

.. THE CONCORDIENSIS. 97 . 'Thus with us, on this day, recollection now breaks ln upon every thoaght, and the dead past awakes. When, four years ago, in the verdance of youth,· First starting upon the wild goose chase for truth, We entered, demurely, the ancient Blue Gate, How buoyant out spirits our hearts how elate! No thought of the hardships which shadowed the way, No thought of the darkness which follows the day. To us, in our sanguine and innocent glee, All objects seemed magnified, brightened to be. Yonder\ Hill'' was Olympus and Prexy was Jove, .And the Profs. were aH Titans, who gallantly strove 'Gainst his \bolts.\ And the Seniors and Juniors were gods Of a lesser degree; and the Sophs with their rods Of empire, called canes, were demi-gods, too, -Of the infernal type,-to our spectacled view. Our delusion was short; a few weeks were enough To make our young life seem sufficiently rough, Indeed, I may say, with your pardon, quite ''tough.'' In one week we could quote, with origi11al curses, Those melodious, laconic and over-true verses Of some nameless poet!'' The freshmen say, well, That the Freshman's life is worse than --. {The Revised version has it, quite classical, Hades, Which I will adopt, for the sake of the ladies, Although, for myself, my stern orthodox views Would make me the less euphemistic name choose.) Fond anticipations experience out-drove, We found Prexy, though jovial, was hardly a Jove; Though the Profs. they were tight 'uns to pass with a SIX, Which the most of us did with the aid of the tricks Which college men k!low; all quite honest, of course, And such as to-day bring us naught of remorse, Was any of us ever caught with a \horse?\ We found, and _it made our amazement increase, That the scene of Olympus was still laid in Greece. We had dreamed of fair fountains, Elysian streatns; -The old pmnps in the rear hardly answered our dreams, And the drink; that was daily to tnoisten our lips, Was hardly ''the nectar that Jupiter sips.\ Thus, our Freshman year passed; not all sombre, I ween, Although so decidedly colored with green. In the next year we chose a new color instead, And; by way of ~Tariety, ''painted things red.\ For the rest, our remembrance grows constantly brighter, Our pleasures were frequent, our labors the lighter Grew daily, along with advance in our station, Till the acme was reached in the'' Senior vacation.'' But I should transcend my legitimate bounds, And, Mr. Historian, enter your grounds, If, in greater detail, I should picture the past, So I leave my first topic and turn to the last. I turn to the future, my clagsn1ates, to say, In brief exhortation some words; and to pray You espouse certain things, and others eschew, And thus make your life useful, beautiful, true. Choose virtue; pursue her; her path is direct,. If not unto honor, at least to· respect. Transi~nt pleasure may woo you, vain glory or pelf, To depart from her way; but be true to yourself, And then, as the grandest of poets has said, (Who yet lives in our hearts, through three centuries dead,) • You cannot be false to another. Choose wisdom-philosophy worthy of men, again, -Not a cast-iron system, evolved frotn a pen, A house built of words, with no thought for foundation, With no windows to let in the grand revelation Of new truth; which retains the vague tnysteries of old, And leaves common-sense shivering out in the cold. Don't, I strongly advise you, your tnental jaws rack, Over nuts which the wisest heads never could crack. But those dogmas with meaning as hard to determine As Calderwood's ethics or last evening's sertnon, Just drop them, they may have some truth or may not, But the world would be better if some were forgot. Choose beauty, its purest and lovli~st forn1: It will soothe you and please you in life's darkest storm. To a sunshiny life added sunshine it brings, \A thing of beauty,''-you know what Keats sings. But where does this jewel with fairest ray shine, And where is its fonn and its face 1nost divine? When Beauty, sweet daughter of Nature, last born, First opened her eyes on Creation's new tnon1, The Father gave to her the sceptre of earth, Made her queen over genius, strength, wisdom and worth. So she rules all mankind, on the land and the sea, Rules the bad and t...,he good, rich and poor, you and lne, Rules the tuen of to-day, ruled the Greek and the Roman, The gods called her Venus, but we nan1eher \Voman~ We are gathered to;night, dear brothers and friends, To make our last bow, and our exit. Here ends, In this happy occasion, our course of four years, With the blossoms and thorns, with the smiles and the tears. With the friends and, perchance, tho, I hope not-the foes,

T'HE CONCORDIENSIS. They have brought us: and each on his mission now goes, In the great ,field of life, there nobly to fight, For right and for freed01n, for truth and for right. Now we leave for awhile, we may visit no more, Yonder ancient and ven'rable temple of lore. \But wherever we wander, whatever we do, To the metnories of youth let us ever be true; And keep in. our hearts two good wishes alive,'' For thee, Alma Mater, and thee, Eighty-five! -·A. B. BrstioP. BY \V. T. FOOTE, JR. Fellow classnzates I .F'rz'etzds fa.ir and . erudite :-It was a beautiful day in Septem- qer, r 881. The grey walls of '' Old Union\ · seemed to smile a welcome on the hilarious crowd gathered about them. It 'vas the first day of the term and the crowd was composed of all classes. The senior moves about just . beginning to feel the dignity of his position, but the yell of delight with which he greets a newly .arrived classmate shows that the enthusiasm of the hoy is not forgotten. 'fhe juniors einulate the dignity of the seniors, but it is yet tainted by recollections of sopho- more scrapes. 1'he sophomore is easily recognized. He has no dignity to maintain, and the cry \ Oh I~'rosh !\ transports hin1 with delight. By far the most conspicuous of the crowd was the freshman class, '85. They wandered about with as n1uch certai.nty of direction as a flock of sheep, and when- ever a yell was started they seemed to be expecting total annihilation. I--Iay seed seemed as likely to sprout in their hair as in any other freshman's. In fact the historian claitns nothing remarkable for his class but their greenness at this embryonic stage,- but note the change. Would you ever sup- pose 1l·1W that we had once asked the way to recitation roon1s? Could you believe that Hammy ·Gibbes on hearing '85 shouted should as\k what it meant? Would you sup- pose that because a sophomore pointed out dignified Prof. Wells as the baggageman that Doc. Jaycox would give him his check and order him to get his trunk ? Yet so the stern n1use bids me write. When the bell sounded for examinations we were directed to the old ,engineers' room. We found our way there with difficulty, as a few kind- . hearted sophomores told us that it took place in the round building, the dome of which had been constructed for that purpose. We · afterward learned that this was merely a sur- . mise on the part of the sophomore. As we took our seats there was a moment's silence . in which we gazed about noting every detail, · the old wooden seats carved with names and · classes of twenty years ago. The arched, · recessed doorway with its n1otto \Aut disce, . Aut Discede.\ The high, box-like desk and · behind it the stern, noble countenance of a Prof. whose big gruff voice has for nearly twenty years struck awe into the hearts of the freshn1en. May it continue to do so :for as many years to come. For the first hour we stared at the board, fumbled our pencils and came to the conclusion that we could not pass and must return hon1e disgraced. The first clause of the motto ''Eitlzer lear1t, '' we no longer see, but the last stares us in the face and tells us plainly to\ Get out.\ Another hour passed, our scattered wits returned and we were well started in our examinations. That evening was a happy one. All our examinations passed we were now college students, who do nothing but have a good tin1e. We light a lamp. To be sure our roon1s were not fine although \Ve paid$ 3 5 fo:- them, and the fellow we bought them of wrote that the engravings on the wall, fur- niture, stove and carpet were included. On the wall lithographs of Minnie Paln1er and L .. ottie sn1iled bewitchingly on the stoical face of Henry Ward Beecher placed .between. A sign n1utely warns us that the transorn is the \Exit in case of fire\; another explains the closet door to be the \Entrance to the dress circle,\ while a third tacked on the door an- nounces the fact that \clan1 chowder will be served to-night.\ The bed was strong on ac- count of two soap boxes under it. The table vvas profusely carved on top with names of societies_ and classes, while the kindling that had been taken froLn the one leg added to the quaint effect. We were rudely interrupted in our glowing letter that we were writing home by a crowd of fifty fellows with fifty horns and fifty noises suddenly entering the roon1. As this par- ticular freshman of ·whom I write \vas W. C. Mills, the tallest man in our class, the

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 99 sophomores picked out their smallest man to · put him through. W. C. is rather bewildered . and when the command comes : \Clear the · table, frosh !'' he hesitates, but with a des- pairing look at the crowd he obeys. \Take · offyour coat; now your collar and. necktie; now you shoes. Get on the table.\ He does · so amid the blowing of horns and the encouraging shouts of \ Good frosh 1'' fr-om . h d G . ,, I ' . \ . t e crow ·. ''· 1ve us a song. '' can t s1ng. · \Oh! cheeky frosh,sing Yankee Doodle,\ and the horns blow and the canes rap the table oblivious of the fact that W. C.'s feet occupy a fair share of the top. He attempts Old Grimes is dead with doubtfL1l success, the · last part being drowned out by the horns. \ Now dance.\ He shuffles his feet awkwardly. \ Make a speech.'' He stutters . painfully. \YeH for your class.\ \Good . frosh.'' \What's your natne?\ \Spell it.\· \Spell it backward.\ \What's you best girl's name ?\ \ Spell it.\ '' Spell it back ward.'' \Who was George Washington?\ \Spell it.\ \Spell it backward.\ \Parse 1t.\ ''Now lay on the table and swin1,\ and they assist him to put his vest on for swimming trunks by putting his feet through the armholes and buttoning it about his waist. :fie places his awkward length on the table, or rather his body is on the table and his awkward length hangs over. The next mon1ent he is lying on the floor with the table on top of him, the · light out and the crowd going down stairs blowing their horns and looking for anotl1er victim. That night in his dreams he hears the discordant notes of the sophomores sing- ing. \The freshn1an's life is not a happy one.\ During the next few days we were all duly,· put on the table; then we decided to hold our first class tneeting in roo1n No. 4 at four o'clock. Son1e juniors had kindly informed us that we would be salted down as we went in and came out fron1 the meeting. On inquiry we found this to mean that small paper bags of salt would be hurled at us in such a rnanner that hitting and exploding on the back of our necks it would thence flow down and deposit itself along the spinal column. The reason given for this peculiar custom is that fresh men being in a green, unripe state are apt to spoil, and hence he is salted. At four o'clock '85 ran the gauntlet ofsalt bags and entered No. 4. How well that whole scene comes back. A bout 70 fellows were in the room all talking at once. Order was obtained and a chairman appointed. Artie Anable, whose voice had been loudest in the crowd, had the floor. I can see him now as with fierce countenance and wild gestures he harangues the crowd and advises us to go forth in a body and . annihilate the crowd that dare to throw bags of salt in free America. A cheer greeted this speech and everyone cla1nored for the floor. \The gen- tleman with the beard has the floor.'' This gentleman had had a plug hat and a cane taken from him the day before by the sophomores and naturally advised moder- ation. His remarks were cut short by a shower of salt coming through the window; The door was hammered but resisted. 'This was followed by a silence broken by Prof. Staley's voice, in gentle and persuasive ac- cents, advising the crowd to disperse. This · produeed a strangely soothing effect, and coming as it did from a man so much their elder I suppose the crowd saw logic and force in the advice and immediately dis- banded. while we continued our meeting. By Noven1ber 5th more class meetings had been held and class officers were elected. It had been decided that the cane rush would be omitted fron1 our college work. The faculty had come to the conclu- siqn that it was not in the regular course and was not required for graduation. Some restless spirits, headed by McCauley, \Perk ''Dick'' and G. Washington Ebaugh, decidP-d that it was optional, and therefore could be taken by those who wished. Thirty-two of the class decided the satne. The tirne for the rush \vas set for Saturday n1orning. All arrangements ·were completed. Saturday morning, during chapel, a lot of'S 5's doughty and most worthy knights arrayed for the fight. rfheir dress was most peculiar. \ Sweety \ had a suit of bGtternut colored overalls securely belted. Others had old flannel shirts and trousers that had long ago been Sunday ones. The whole were tightly belted ; so111e fron1 the arms down the waist with clothes line. (I would say that since that time the people of the hill have used gfll-

.. IOO ··THE CONCORDIENSIS. vanized wire for clothes line, the cotton and hemp is now scatce.) We found out after the rush that winding clothes line from the arms down saves that much of the shirt that is beneath it. This is for the benefit of fol- lowing classes. Just as chape I ended this motley gang appeared carrying a large cane. In a second they were surrounded by the sophomore and freshman classes and the fight began and lasted an hour. By this time many had been stripped to the waist, and as we fought against twice our num her there was no time for rest ; although Dick J:i'rank- lyn, when asked why he was hot in, vowed that he was on the reserve force. Some fainted frotn the exertion, while others were kept out by their friends though. it is told that ''Eby\ and his friend cried for n1ore worlds to conquer. The rush ended by the cane being broken, '8 5 securing one part and '84 the other. At the end of the vvinter term Algebra was cren1ated, and never did savage take more delight in destroying- his enen1y than we in burning Algebra. Our procession was over 6o strong. Arrayed in gowns of black, and proceeded by the drum and fife corps, we held _our solemn \vay about the city. It would be immodest for me to state the gifts showered upon us the crowd. They con- sisted chiefly in elderly vegetables and en1bryonic chickens. We retnonstrated with their lavishness but \vith no effect. At the funeral pyre our black gowns, streaked with · yellow, produced a rich effect. It seemed to gratify the artistic eye of the crowd, who howled vvith delight whenever this effect was added to by more ochre. The Algebra was burned with the proper ceren1onies, a dirge, oration, poem and two fights. The spring tern1 opened with the plug hat and cane parade in which 6o took part. Sophornore year we bravely undertook the responsibilities that we supposed rested upon us. The freshmen were put on the table, their set-up's eaten, they were properly salted, and in other ways trained in the way they should go. Mr. C., '86, had to be put up on the idol after undergoing the same oper- ation in his room. We are sorry to. report this the only case we failed to benefit; he has too rn uch Cole cheek. It might be well to draw the vail over Tornmy Addison's playful freaks. One even- ing be attached an iron dumb bell to a wire, heated it in his stove and then pitched it down the stairs in such a manner as to hit Prof. Wells' door. The professor went out, and seeing the dumb bell decided to stop the racket by capturing the dumb bell. He took it up and quickly dropped it while the dumb bell was quickly pulled up out of sight. Tornn1y had such a playful nature! Spring term, '8 5 :rnade herself famous on the ball ground by winning the Yates championship cup and giving to Union Col- lege the best pitcher and catcher she has ev~r had, Anable and McCauley. Junior year passed smoothly by. We lost much of our sophom:oric spirit, though it still cropped out. One day while in th~ midst of recitation to Prof. Foster, a large and appar- ently healthy mem bet· of the class of '85 was seeR to hecome chalky white, first on one and then the other side of his face; then a groan was heard, and the man with the chalky face dropped off the seat. Fowler assumed his most tragic attitude, and in a fear-struck voice said: \My heavens, professor, he has fainted!\ whereat the man with the magnesia colored face was surrounded and carried down· stairs. Once outside he was chucked into a snow bank. As this was not in the programme he in1mediately revived. It took half the class to carry hin1 home, while the other half were too agitated -to continue the recitation and were excused. Senior year with its hard work, banquet and officer's set-up has swiftly run its course to the close. Kind friends, so far I have not shown you the dark side of student life. The side that has been pressed into our hearts by disappointments, work and sorrow. The side that the world hears so little of that it is apt to think college life but a happy utopian existence. Thrice has '85 followed all that remained of noble lives to the grave. First, McClumpha, the scholar of the class, was called, and death 's black curtain was drawn across our brightest future. In our hearts will always live the n1emory and influence of that big hearted, genial, briUian t life. Jan- nary last Professor Price died. The sad faces gathered about the coffin showed our love for him. To us, as a professor, he was all that was just, noble and christian. It is

• THE CONCORDIENSIS. !Of not for feeble pen to eulogize such a life. Its and even six pieces of pie, where before one influence sunk deep· in our lives is its highest .· piece was deemed the acme ofhappinesscould eulogy. Our lives were the better for his , but bring about disastrous results. Could living.. But three months ago Prof. Hawley, a day such as described be other than event- who seen1ed so strong in his n1agnificent ful to one alone and orphaned, away fron1 the physique was dead. We had known him only familiar scenes where two, yea even three a few :months, h~t already his earnest chris ... pieces of pie are not considered a luxury? 0! tian life had won our hearts. In his death you who have not experienced that craving, we mourn a life whose manly qualities fore- , that longing, that uncontrollable desire for told a future of good to his fellowman. ' home made pie when far away from rela- Over those pure lives we draw no vail, For untilnely death we have no wail, Their influence rolls from an echoing shore And lives in our lives forever rnore. To-night, brother classmates, we n1eet for · the last time as the class of '85. For four years we have labored and longed for this day. Still, now that it has arrived~ the ·· thought that such is the case has in it quite . as much ·of sadness as of joy. And standing · on the threshold of life's great workshop, our retrospective glance is dulled by a tear which trembles and falls as we raise our hats · to Old Union and a happy past. -W. T. FooTE, ]R. lrophecg. BY FRANK BAILEY, 'Ss. I T was at the close of an eventful day in . June, that your prophet, weary and op- J . pressed by an unusual burden, sought his humble couch. During the day that had passed an unexpected and terrible occur- rence had taken place, such as had never · before occurred during his residence at Union University. 1\'o account for the cause of this unusual event would require a mind more deeply versed in ethical sciences than · he possesses, who now has the honor to address you ; so . you must be content merely with the facts of the case, with their effects upon the prophet's gastronomic and mental organs, and leave the causes for future meditation and research. · The larder of the prophet's landlady had been unexpectedly placed at the disposal of the boarders. 0 but was it not full of pies! Why the landlady so did, as I remarked be- fore, I leave you to conjecture. The result was a larder void of pies, and the boarders -well the effect on the prophet is but an ex- ample. 1\'he sudden receptance of three; four, tives and familiar faces, may you be ever kept in extreme ignorance of the fierceness of the passion, is the prophet's prayer ! It was at the close of this day that he had sought his h urn ble couch. After the unusual excitement many long hours \vere passed before sleep greeted his weary eyes ; and when it did come, it was only to make possible those frightful fantasies, those horrid images which appear to the unfortunate, only after excessive indulgence in-pie. Long and wearily had the prophet waited for a dream in which he could see that book which all prophets see, and whereby he could learn the future oft he class of '8 5. Little, however, did he imagine that the dream woulcl come under such, to say the least, un- romantic circun1stances. But the time was at hand. Six pieces of pie were accon1plish- ing what long days of fasting an·d nightly vigils had failed to do. * * It was midnight. The rising sun was slowly setting in the East, when the prophet in his dream, urged by some in visible power, journeyed far into the forest. Far pas_t Schenectady, Scotia, and other cities of world-wide reputation walked the pror)het, unwilling, you may be sure, to undergo the physical effort attend- ant upon such a midnight jaunt. After the prophet had with difficulty propelled hin1self over a distance of at least two n1iles, wearied by his labor, heated by his midnight toil, tortured by the unusual obstruction to his digestive organs, his further progress was hindered by the interposition of an object seldom seen in this life, but to whom, I fear, many of this audience wi1l some time in the future pay all due allegiance. The object had the form of ·a man, large and n1uscu1ar. · Every part was abnormally developed. His head was extensive, long and lank, stretch- ing far frotn his body like the head of an ancient canal mule. The· mouth in this large

I02 THE CONCORDIENSIS. head was long, broad and deep-but possibly the prophet was frightened and terror ex- cited his imaginative powers to their greatest extent. To be sure the prophet saw his forked appendage and perceived the odor- iferous properties of his breath, which were ot a decided Wieneke flavor. With such an object, in a lonely forest, far from classical influences, the prophet tremblingly stood. Slowly but surely each individual hair assumed a position perpendicular to the plane of the prophet's head. To attempt to escape was useless. Beyond a particle of doubt, the prophet was captured by that being to whom, in company with Henry Ward Beecher and Bob Ingersoll, the p\rophet is afraid that he will be obliged, some day in the future, to do reverence. Noticing, however, that under his arm this supernatural being carried a large, well-thumbed book, hope arose in the breast of the prophet. Perhaps it is to this being, that it has been delegated to give to the prophet that book \vhich for ages past has furnished the provhets of high schools, seminaries and colleges with that store of information and that abundance of jokes which it has been the duty of the prophet to expostulate and of a highly appreciative a udi- ence to commend. Receiving courage from the sight of the book, and the thought which had suggested itself, the prophet humbly bowed and addressed. this shape as follows : \0 ! n1ost high and honorable potentate, supreme ruler of the world below, grant I beseech your future subject an opportunity to mark, learn and inwardly digest that book of life which will foretell to him the future existence of the class of eighty-five ?\ All expectant the prophet stood awaiting the answer upon \vhi.(:h, as he then con- sidered, depended the success of his office. Soon, as if aroused from a dream, the being replied : \ 0! most humble mortal, upon one con- dition will the contents of this book be known unto you. Give into my hand I 3 cents, and I will furnish you with an abundance of jokes which will gain for you rich honors.\ Now, although benifi.cent services should receive munificent rewards, the .prophet had not sufficient means to meet the demand, for he was slightly financially embarrassed. Thinking, however, that the same experi- · ment so successfully tried by the unaccus- tomed church goer might here serve him, he quickly brought forth a lead ten cent piece, two buttons and a pool check, and rashly presented them to the expectant being. No sooner, however, had the King of SheoLseen what the prophet presented, and not waiting explanation which the prophet would will- ing! y have given him, he· stretched forth his hand, seized the prophet, and thrice around his head he whirled him, then suddenly releasing his hold he sent the unfortunate prophet spinning through space. ConsGious- ness soon was lost. How long the prophet was in this condition it is impossible to estimate. The next incident he re- calls is the suddenness with which his journey was ended. B.efore he could collect his senses, however, he was surrounded by a crowd of supernatural beings with one of whon1 the following conversation occurred: \Who art thou, most lowly n1ortal, that darest to intrude your presence into the company of inunortals ?\ \ I am,\ replied the prophet, '' indeed a mortal, unjustly punished for a seeming mis- demeanor. Where am I ? Who are vou ?\ \You are upon the surface of the moon. We are former inhabitants of Schenectady.\ \But why,'' interrupted the prophet, \do you who are immortal reside here?\ \Because continued the speaker, \the Almighty has decreed that no being who will acknowledge, as his place of residence, a city with such a depot, shall be judged worthy of entering the divine presence.'' \What year is it?'' inquired the prophet. \ How are you kept informed ofthe deeds of your former fellow citizens?'' \ It is the year 1 go 1. By our telescope and telephone,\ said they,\ are we informed of the daily action of all the inhabitants of the world.\ At last luck was in favor of the prophet. Now was the opportunity to learn the future of his class. ''Lead me, I pray you,\ said he, \ where I too can see how the inhabitants of the world progress. ' A guide was furnished and quickly the prophet was brought to the mountain of observation, and there, by means of a new and powerful telescope and a wonderful adaptation of the telephone, the prophet saw

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 103 ==============~~~==~==~~================~==== and heard manystrange things which he will straightway tell you. Upon turning the tele- scope toward the earth the first object dis~ tinctly seen was a ship quietly steaming over Lake Michigan. Upon the deck a familiar sight greet the prophet's eye, it was Samuel Barlow Coffin. \ Sep\ had a sort of wistful look, as if unhappy or perhaps homesick. Telephonic connection was made with the steamer, and thus the prophet was enabled to carry on a long conversation. That which is of interest to you I will repeat. \You seem to be unhappy, ' Sep,' what troubles you? You used to be as happy as a school girl. Why now this sadness?\ \ 0 ! this water!., he replied. \ How is that?\ ''Glory ! the sight of so much dri1lkiJZg water makes me gag.'' That was a!w.ays one of\ Sep's\ troubles. A lack of a thorough appreciation of the good qualities of drinking \Vater. The prophet learned that \ Sep\ was in the undertaking business in Kentucky. Refriger- . ators, shrouds, tears, gravestones, sepulchres, coffins and other graveyard appliances furnished upon the shortest notice. If you should happen to be in the neighborhood of Louisville, in the year 1901, drop in and allow him an opportunity to show his skill. By an unintended jar of the instru- ment the field of vision was suddenly changed to Utah. Whon1 do you think the prophet there saw, especially since in that country now woman, not man is the unit of society ? William Hutchinson and Ed\vard Terrill were there, twin husbands of a fair damsel. Their · names were changed after they entered the marriage state, as prescribed in the Mormon . ritual. It became-well nan1es escape one's . memory easily. Terrill was taking care of babies number one, three and eight. Hutch- inson, with a young man who, in due season, is to be husband nun1ber three, took care of the rest of the family. Both \Dick\ and \ Hutch\ wear their hair closely cut ; not so, they informed me, because their religious belief requires it, but because the female portion is the presiding element in · their fa;rnily. While the telescope was turned westerly, it occurred to the prophet that perhaps he could discover one of his classmates, who at the close of his college course, was intending to seek his fortune in the West. After searching many Western states in vain, the prophet's attention was arrested by what seemed to be a monstrosity of nature. It was a white-headed Chinaman. Severson wasthe proprietor ·of a good laundry business, and earned his\ victuals\ with but little trouble. He started in the West as a cowboy. The first tussle with a government mule was far from a drawn battle. He recovered after two years, but ambition was gone. Hence the position in which the prophet found him. F\'rank had a lovely cue, and his blue Father Hubbard, such as all Chinaman wear, was cut in the latest fashion. On the railroad running between Sheol- IVIou th and Hole- in-the-Ground, two prom- inent cities in Arizona, your prophet dis- covered two familiar faces. Both were engineers in college, and still follow their profession. James Henry Stephen Mc- Carty, engineered a coal shovel on the loco- motive of the· gravel train, and Francis Elihu Grane propelled dirt from the ground to the cars of this train. Such is the fate of the ( un )civil engineer. Another accidental turn of the telescope and the scene was Schenectady, where many ofthe class of'85 sti11 reside. Opposite the postoffice, upon a bill-board, the prophet saw a large poster. It read as follows : Sal- vation Army. Grand Hallelujah Wedding. Captain Munsell and his two assistants, Pull-the- Devil-on t-by-th e- Heels- Kate and Pound-Sheol-out-of--the-head-of-the-Drum- Susan, in command. Grand Devil Act, Etc. Come One Come All! Comrade Alvin Bar- ber Bishop to be united in marriage vvith Devil-Driving-Sarah. Yes! \Barber\ was to be married. The prophet never thought he would, did you? William Harlow Mun- sell was in the command of the Schenectady barracks and was recognized, so the prophet learned, as the most skillful tambourine twirler in the arn1y. But a word 1nore about our poet. Bishop wrote one n1ore poen1 after the class poen1. He took it to the Star office. He never came out again. Thus the world is rid of another \ l\ove poet.\ But now, my hearers, whom else do you think the prophet saw in Schenectady? It was the hour of ..

.. , THE CONCORDIENSIS. midnight-year 190 I. Personce Dra1natis Ebaugh and Cow. Yes, George Washington is at his same old tricks. Once a year, con1- pelled by the force of habit, that unyielding monster, he makes a pilgrimage to Schenec- tady, that in person as of old he may extract unobserved the lacteal bevt~rage from the frisky bovine. 0, you who are now \veaving that strong net of habit about you take warning from Ebaugh's sad fate and reform before it is yet too late ! \Vhen at home Ebaugh is a mechanic. One day he · so far forgot hin1self as to strike two succes- sive blows with a hammer. A long fit of sickness ensued. You know Ebaugh never did agree with work. In the beautiful resting place of the dead of Schenectadv a marble shaft with Edmund ,/ Taylor Perkins, Jr., cut in handsome letters, next greeted the prophet's eye. Yes, it was the last resting place of \ Eli\ the prophet · saw. \Eli\ was no longer among the living. He was a good-hearted fellow, and how the prophet's heart grieves to think of his demise ! In college he was famous for kind- ness of heart. Never did he send a poor · beggar or peddler away from his door, but always told him to go to the next story below and Bailey would be glad to help him. How \Eli\ must be tnissed (?) by his itn- mediate friends. Immediately upon gradu- ation he becan1e im hued with a desire to develope his artistic talent. He went to Rome and spent his time in modeling a bust of himself to be placed in the central build- ing, as a fitting men1orial of the achieve- ments of the Union College baH nine during the season of '85. He finished the bust as far as the smile. That was too much for him, he died while vainly tryil1g to con1plete it. Lewald, too, remained ·in Schenectady. He was an assistant builder. He engineered a hod. Morey, in1mediately upon graduation, ac- cepted the position of Professor of Elocution in the Classical Institute. l-Ie was busy in exercising the pupils in oratory, and not in teaching them to sing \Jesus Lover of My Soul \ and other stage effects. But a little change of position and the scene was Lishas Kill. Bond was still ring- master of that hippodrome over which he now has jurisdiction. \Turk'' had been in- tending to resign his position for a long thne, but his susceptibility for the fair sex, which you know our worthy vice president possesses to a high degree, prevented. Those in our class who studied for the ministry the· prophet discovered in New York. ·of the 2~ who intend to make that profession their work only 1 ~ remained fast to their determination~ Vaughn and Barhydt. Vaughn, taking advantage of the fondness of the fen1ale sex for that which is a minister, soon married a rich wife. He had a large church in New York, read a fifteen minutes' sermon once per week, and was ~aving an .easy time generally when the prophet saw him. Barhydt, who with regard to piety counted only ~ but in the amount of conversation that he could articulate in one minute was equal to at least 17, wa..; also a minister in New York city. He had a large church- but beware, he always has a new barrel of big words handy which he opens on the slightest provocation, and woe to the man who comes within their power. But Griswold. Now n1y hearers the prophet has a sad tale to unfold. Soon after leaving college that forn1erly upright Henry De Witt Griswold told his first lie. Fron1 that time it is sad to follow the rapid fall of this innocent youth. Lower and lower each year he went, yea even in the year 1901 he became proprietor of a roller skating rink. ''How the tnighty hq_ve fallen.\ \0 Babylon! how thou hast degenerated.\ ~\'rom New Y\.)rk the $Cene was changed to Troy. There, of course, the prophet ex- pected to find John Joseph McSorley, Jr. \ Mac \ never left his native .Place but resided there in 1901, hoary and gray, bowed down with grief. Soon after gradu- ation '' Sorley\ became infatuated with a beautiful young lady in Troy. Exalted by the success of his Ivy Poem he one day, not long before they were to haye been one, wrote a short ode of affection to her. She has never been seen since, and \Sorley from that time forth, has spent a life- of sorrow. But a trifle of change in the direction of the instrument and the field of vision included Gloversville. There Egelston resided and there Mills was spending a happy existence.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. IO) Of Egelston,\ the prophet learned that he tnie ''is not married yet. Too bad. Who was n1arried and had been the father of one · would have thought it child. Alfred Calvin Egelston sang to it one Sweetland was seen by the prophet ad- day. The child died. The prophet always dressing the jury in a Scotia court roorn. It expected that Egelston's singing would be was a pitiful sight. The room con- the death of somebody ; but he thought that tained thirteen persons-twelve jurymen Dr. Darling, who stood so near him every · and 1VIonroe M. Sweetland, \Swetee '' Sunday, would be the -one to suffer from his was sun1ming up a case, for the ·rest singing; but no, it was a poor little innocent of the court had flown. The jurymen child. Mills, also, soon married, but he had · were on their knees imploring Sweetland to better luck. A drummer eloped with his discontinue his address. But no, he would wife and six children. Thus .good fortune not. The prophet watched the progress of always attends some people through life and . events until three juryn1en were carried out again disproves that frequently stated prob- actually talked to death. He could look no lem -that as \there is no marriage in heaven, · further. Powerless to help the po0r fellows there is no heaven in marriage.\ he could but syn1pathize with them, for he pelaney was found enjoying life as pro ... once knew what it was to so suffer. proprietor of the same menagerie he now · Richards was a doctor of great renown. manages, with the exception of Perkins of Only an ann and collar button of a victim of whom the phophet has already told you. : a recent explosion were found, but under Johnson still piays third base, Dorwin · \ Dick's\ skillful treatment a whole n1an was second, etc. n1ade. Stryker was found in a restaurant in Key Mitchell can no longer travel for half fare. West. He was at the time the prophet saw . His present fighting weight is 234. He has him having an altercation with the waiter · been engineering the knife and fork of late because tae toothpicks were not warmed. years. You would hardly recognize him. Stryker was afraid of taking cold .. He was · Two of the class had as yet escaped the always fastidious. prophet's observation, and it was only after Of all the things the prophet saw from this the n1ost careful search that their where- abouts were discovered. lofty pinnacle he can but mention a part . . Time is flying and he must preceed; but he Frank Ray, the prophet found in a southern must stop a ·n1on1ent and pay a passing city. Of course, he was sleeping. Frank, tribute to ''The Blonde from Kinderhook.\ while in college, always slept about 2 5 hours Bradley, 5 years after grad uation,invented a a day. He had not even slept out yet. Those new style of liver pad. Honor him now for montague bangs still looked as charn1ing as the benefit he will confer upon the htunan ever, and his slnile still had its enticing race, -for in this world of sin, misery and beauty. democrats there is nought so worthy of That\ Blue-Eyed, Gray-I-Iaired Darling\ admiration as deeds which tend to lesson the fron 1 Port Henry, the prophet found in his evils to which the human flesh is heir. native village. In place of the present adolescent down upon his lip. Foote had a As the prophet discovered by much in- lovely n1oustache, and vvas otherwise pros- quiry, Fowler, soon after graduation, joined- . 1 h H . - perous. a 1n1nstre · s _ow. . .e soon died of grief, Well_, the prophet has now told you a word how·ever, because of the failure of an audience or two of every one of his former classn 1 ates. to appreciate his jokes! He has endeavored to tell only that part of Iglehart went to an isle in the Pacific. He their life \vhich would be of peculiar interest was a cannibal, and such an appetite for man to you. Whole pages of interesting facts be as he had, one never saw before. He always has from necessity left unwritten. did agree with everybody. The return trip from the moon was never Gibbes was found occupying the position made ; the ringing of the chapel bell dis- of instructor in the higher branches of roller turbed the illusion and the prophet was skating at the Schenectady Coliseum. ''Ham- recalled to earthly duties. These sayings

ro6 THE CONCORDIENSIS. -------- you have so patiently listened to, are the · chronicles of what he sa\v. The responsi- .· bility rests not with the prophet but with the actors in the scene. However, should anyone be so rash as- to otherwise judge, he wiH find that the prophet's room will be from this time forth well guarded. Two blunder- busses, a bowie knife and a freshman will give a warm reception to those who call with evil intentions, and a bevy of Schenectady policemen are waiting at the church door to escort him safely to his domicile. The legal profession as a whole is in1- measurably below that of other conn tries and the same is true of all the professions. It is mainly on his college training that the profesional man must depend for his preparation to meet these various calls. ' . There are thirty thousand places -in the state calling for educated men and every year sixty-two of the men filling these positions are retired from duty by death or age. The statistics of the class of '8 5 \Vhich we had intended to publish in this number, we have been unable to obtain ; not more than half for whom blanks had been prepared having filled and returned them. By the census of 1 88o, there were in the state 6,70I clergymen, 9,459 lawyers, 9,272 physicians, I ,8o6 architects and engineers, 391 chemists, and metallurgists, 2, I I I authors and journalists, and 675 professors in colleges. Is it best in a college course to exact from all the study of Latin and Greek? Without hesitation we say that any young man purpos- ing to enter a profession will be better pre- pared for it by a thoroughly classical train- ing than any other. Our college course must be planned for the average healthy mind. :For this nothing has ever been found so effective as the study of the classical languages and mathematics. Every student should be required to be familiar with these branches. The graduating class of the Union Classi-. cal Institute held very creditable class-day exercises indeed, but it seems to us that they would be ~much improved by dispens- ing with t~e history on history and prophecy on prophecy and have but one of each. Every men1 ber of a profession is also a n1ember of society and his training should fit him for the one as well as the other. A man cannot be a lawyer, n1inister, or physi- cian and nothing else. Eight hours out of the twenty-four he n1ay he engaged in his profession but during his other waking hours his friends dernand that he shall be a friend. Pref. Chaplin has received an offer from Harvard which he has accepted. While we are exceedingly sorry to lose him, we can hardly blame the professor for going, as the. position from a financial standpoint is much. more desirable than the one which he has · held here. I-I is new duties at Harvard are to superintend the school of engineering. The Rev. Joseph T. Duryea, D. D., pastor of the Central Congregational church, Bos- ton, who has been invited to the presidency of the college, is a man whose name has been received with singular favor by the alumni. As a scholar and orator, Dr. Duryea occupies a high place, and is possessed of qualities that fit him eminently for thP position to which he has been called. ]\_ business training which he received pre- liminary to his professional career has pre- pared hin1 thoroughly for the business duties of a college president. Harper's !¥eekly ~f July 4, speaking of him says: \The Rev. ] oseph T. Duryea, D. D., who has been offered the presidency of Union college, at Schenectady, New York, is probably as well fitted for that position as any other clergyr11an in the United States. He possesses to a remarkable degree the power of interesting young men in himself and his views, and few graduates of Princ:eton colleg;e are as popular as he on con1mencen1ent occa- sions, or have so often been invited by the students to deliver addresses. Dr. Duryea has long been considered a shining light of Princeton, although during his present pas~ to rate in Eos ton his Cal vanistic views have become slightly modified. He was the vale- dictorian of the class of '56, and for years afterward the eloquence of his farewell address to his classmates was a tradition on

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 107 the campus. While pursuing his studies at . the Princeton theological setninary he acted . as tutor of rhetoric in the college and gained a strong hold upon the affections of h,is pupils. He next became the pastor of a Presbyterian church in Troy, and afterward the pastor of the Collegiate Reformed church in this city and of the Classon Avenue Pres- byterian church in Brooklyn, which under his charge grew rapidly in wealth and num- bers. His friends are legion. Fron1 the beginning of his public life he has taken special interest in the management of institu- · tions of learning. Those who know him best have often predicted that he would crown his . career by becorning the president of a col- lege, and he has already· declined several invitations to occupy such a position. He is about fifty-two years of age, of slight figure and average height, extremely generous and hopeful in disposition, a capital conversa- tionalist, winuing in manner, and-to use the . language of the late Professor Charles Hodge, his old preceptor and associate-a natural orator. In scholarship his specialty is men- tal science, although be has long been an arduous student of New Testament Greek.'' In case of Dr. Duryea's acceptance, he will have the support of 4,000 of the alumni, whose reviving interest in their Alma Mater has determined them to restore the college to the high position it occupied when Dr. N ott was at its head. For a man . of Dr. Duryea's ability and en1inent social standing, there is a good field at Union, and one where with such support he cannot fail to he a suc- cess. Since receiving the appointment, Dr. Duryea has visited the college, carefully in- spected the buildings, and it is thought his in1pression of the college was favorable. Those who have the best means of knowing his intentions believe he will accept. -----,~------ ------ Hon. J. S. Landon delivered the annual address before the graduates of the J\lbany law school. Dr. Francis Wharton addressed the students of the' Colun1bia law school upon tbe Evolution of Law. The presidents of Cornell, Vassar, and Middlebury colleges have each tendered their resignations. LO\ZJ!L. Voting by proxy for alumni trustee has been abolished. v'J ohn K. Paige, '65,. has been appointed postmaster at this city. '48. S. W. Bent has been appointed • naval officer of the port of New York city. vW. A. Waddell, '82, has been appointed registrar and assistant treasurer for the com- . 1ng year. Hon. Warner Miller, class of'6o, addressed the alumni at the banquet in the \round\ building. Thirteen freshmen have entered for the coming year. A larger n urn her than have entered so early for several years. At the recent meeting of the trustees, tuition in the three courses-classica-l, scien- tific and engineering-was reduced frorn $35 to $2 5 per term. VJ ames R. Truax, '76, has been appointed adjunct Prof. of Rhetoric and English Literature, and Tutor Henry It. DePuy, adjunct Prof. of Mathematics. The seven member of the class of 1835 who were in attendance at the comtnence- m,ent exercises were entertained at the resi- dence of Professor Foster. The supper was gotten up by Schumacher and the occasion was one which the aged graduates will never forget. Hon. A. J. Harmon, of Oswego, presided. Most of the students will regret to learn of the death of '· Au1nie,\ Mrs. Maria Nicolis, who has passed away since college closed, For over 40 years she had charge of the rooms in South college, and no one of the characters about college was during that time a greater favorite. than she. Though unable to attend to her duties since the mid- dle of the winter term the death of the rugged \Aumie '' comes as a surprise, and removes frotn the college a figure, which if not graceful had a warm heart, and which seldom failed to leave a bright spot in the memory of every student with whotn she was brought in contact.

108 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ' In addition to J. H .. McClure being elected president of the alurnni association, the fol- lowing were . also chosen ; Douglass Camp- bell, of New York, first vice-oresident; Hon. Neil Gilmour, Ballston Spi, second vice- president; Hon. A. A. Yates, Schenectady, corresponding secretary; Geo. R. Donnan, Troy, recording secretary; Jonathon Pear- son, Schenectady,. treasurer. More than half the m em bcrs of the class · of. '84 were present at this comn1encen1ent. 'fhey met at Schumacher;s Tuesday even- ing, where supper awaited them, and spent a pleasant hour or two discussing \old times·\ and the work of the boys since leaving college. They hav~ printed a neat little volun1e containing a concise account of the doings of the class for the past year. The class of '65., met at nine o'clock at Power's hall, and frntn that time until three the next n1orning the conversation on old days never ceased. In the absence of Presi- dent D. N. Lockwood, Hon. J. L. Meredith, of Williamsport, Pa. presided. The following officers were elected to serve ten rears ; Hon. J. L. Meredith, president; Rev: S. D. Rossiter, New York, vice president ; Cady Staley, Schenectady, secretary; John Keyes Paige, Schenectady, treasurer. A junior, and a sophomore who received invitations to the closing exercises of the Classical Institute, felt in duty bound to pre- sent the fair one inviting them with a basket of flowers, as she was to appear upon the stage. They were averse, ho·wever, to be- ing seen carrying flowers on the street, so acting upon a bright idea occurring to one of them a small boy was found who for a dime agreed to carry then1 and present them to the proper person. We have yet to learn whether or not the lady for whorn they were intended received thenL · Howard Dudley Johnstown ; Rev. A. V. V. Raymond, Plainfield, N. J.; Rev. Stanley D, Jewell, Big Flats ; -Dr. ] . L. Schoolcraft and John E Myers, Schenectady; Louis Oppenheim, Rev. James R. Trux, George 0. Van DeBogert,Dr.Edward Whitehorne, New York ; George Pearson, Kalamazoo, Mich.; John Veeder, Las Vegas, N. M.,. and C .. C. Bown1an, Scranton, Pa., ·of the class of I 875, ·----------- -- ---~------· . --- - -·-----~--------------------- held their reuniori at the Mer.chant:s· hotel. The gentlemen sat at the table from six until . eleven o'clock. Howard Dudley presided. The officers elected to serve until 1895 are : Rev. A. V. V. Raymond, president; . George 0. Van De Bogert, vice pr:e~ident ;· Dr. J. L. Schoolcraft, secretary aRd treas·urer; Rev. Stanley D. Jewell, historian. It wa.s decided to publish a history of the class, and Messrs. Raymond, Jewe 11 aud Schoolcraft were appointed a com n1ittee to snpedntend the matter. No graduating class of Union co1l:ege ever. gave so handsome a baH as thatgiven by '85 at the armory. This fact was ad mit ted by all, and every one was n1ore than willing to give all praise to Messrs. F,rank M. Severson,. Everett Fovvler and E. T. Perkins, jr., the gentleman who had it in charge _an~ on wh~se shoulders had rested tbe responsi_bility of n1aking it a success. That they did so is be- yond a doubt; nothing .about it could have been improved on. There was a large attend- ance, but as the guests danced in the mam- tnoth drill-room there was no crusll, and all could move about con1fortably. Great taste had been exercised in preparing andl decorat- ing the dancing apartrnc;nt and the effect produced was novel, instantly rerrl'i:nding all who entered, that they were in the domain of college boys. Suspended from the ceiling far above the floor was a canoe, 011 which the paddles were crossed so that it app;eared to be about to start on a voyage ; opp()site each other on the north and south wal:ls were ex~ ce1lent. portraits of th~ late Drs. :Isaac vV. Jackson and Tayler Lewis. At intervals around the room on the walls were placed base ball bats, foils, boxing glo\o 7 es, lawn tennis rackets and nettings, and n1an y other articles dear to the heart of an. athletic student. There were several other attempts at ornamentation, which, although extremely simple, served to add to the general good effect. The music was fttrnished by Parlatti and of course was perfect. An irnmense crash covered the floor which .seemed ex- pressly made to dance apon. Syracuse University conferred the degree of A. B. upon twenty-four gentlemen and one lady. .,

THE CONCORDIENSIS. CORNELL 14-UNION 7· After two crushing defeats at the hands of the R. P. L , Union, strengthened by the addition of McDonald from the U. C. Institute as pitcher, played a very strong game with Cornell. UNION. A. B. R. IB. Po 0. A. E. D:orwin, 2b ........ o •• • • 5 La Monte, So s ....... o. • • 4 Landon, Ib............. 4 Earl,r. [ ................. S Begley, c............. .. 5 Hunsicker, 1. f •.. o • o • o • • 4 1\{cDonald, p .... o ••• o • • 4 Johnson, 3 b............ 4 Perkins, c. f o. o o.. • • • • • • 4 Totals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 2 2 2 0 0 0 0 0 II 0 0 I 2 2 6 ()- 0 I I I I I I I I I I 3 3 0 0 I I 9 0 0 7 7 24 I7 I 2 2 0 0 4 I 0 0 IO CoRNELL. A. B. R. IB. P. 0. A. E. Hall, c.... .. . .. . .. .. . . .. 6 2 I 17 I 3 Taylor,3b. ... .. . ... .. . . 6 I o 2 3 2 Olin, 2b................ s I 3 o o r Dim on, s. s • . . . . . . . . . . . 6 2 I o 2 2 8 m i th, I b ...... · • .. • · .. 5 2 2 6 0 I Ingalls, c. f. . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 2 o o o o Newbury, p...... .. .. . . . 4 r I 2 17 o White, r. f.. . . . . . . . . . . . . S I o o o · o Ruyter, I. f ............. 5 __ ~_o ___ o __ o ___ o Totals . ............ . 48 If 8 9 HAMILTON 2o-UNION 4- On May 2oth Union played Hamilton at Clinton. After much dispute over the pitching rales the gatne began at 4 P. M. Begley injured his finger in the first inning and McDonald caught, Furman pitching. The game only lasted five innings when Union gave up. The treatment which the Union boys received on the grounds at Hamilton was disgraceful in the extreme. UNION. A. B. R. IB. P. 0. A. E. Furn1an, p ........ · · · · · · 3 0 0 0 I I I 0 I 0 0 I 0 8 I I 0 0 o ... 4 0 0 8 I 2 2 I 2 I 0 0 I McDonald, c. . . . . . . . . . . 2 2 I I 0 0 I 2 0 Darwin, 2b............. 2 La Monte, s. s .... ; . . . . . 2 Landon, Ib............. 2 Pyrkins, c. f............ 2 Hunsicker-, r. f,......... 2 Johnson, 3b............ 2 0 0 0 0 Earl, 1. f................ 2 0 I Tot~1ls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 4 I IS IO HAMILTON. A. B. R. IB. P. 0. A. E. -------- Latrabee, c ............ . 5 3 I 6 3 2 Bartlett, s. s ........... . 4 4 I 0 0 I Smith, 2b ............. . 4 2 2 2 0 I Van Kennon, Ib ....... . 5 I 1 2 0 2 Colson, 1. f. ... oo ...... . 4 2 I I 0 0 Eells, c. f ...... ....... . 4 I 0 I 0 0 Gardner, r. f ...........• Lathrop, p ............ . 4 3 0 0 0 0 4 I 2 0 6 I Johnson, 3b .....•...... 4 3 0 3 0 I -----··· --------- 38 20 8 IS 9 8 - Totals . ............. . UNION 26-ROCHESTER 12 •. On May 22d the Rochesters fell easy victims to Union. UNION. A. B. R. IB. P. O. A. E. Begley, ·c. and L f....... 6 S 3 7 4 2 McDonald, p.. . . . . • .. . . 7 4 3 I 7 o Darwin, 2b ...... oo..... 7 3 3 I 2 2 La Monte, s. s.... . . . . . . 7 4 4 I I o Landon, Ib.. .. . . . . . .. .. 7 3 s IJ I I Johnson, 3b ..........•. 7 I I 2 3 I Hunsicker, c. f ......... o 7 I 4 I o o Delaney, r. f ...... o.... 5 2 o o o o Earl, l. f. and c .. o o. o o o. 6 3 2 2 2 o -- Totals .............. 59 26 25 27 20 6 ROCHESTER. A. B. R. IB .. P. 0. A. E. West, s s .•...... · ... ,. · · 4 3 Gorsline, Ib and p .... o. 4 I McDonald, c.. .. . . .. . . . . 5 2 Brown, p. and Ib ..... o. 5 2 Kiefer,3b .. oo···· 00 ''•· 5 2 Morris, l.f .............. 3 o C. Stnith, c. f. . . . . . . . . . . 5 2 D. Stnith, 2b........... 5 o Lynch, r. f.... . . . . . . . . . 5 o 2 2 2 6 I ·6 2 3 2 2 0 2 I 4 0 2 I 0 4 2 3 4 0 0 0 3 I 3 0 I 2 4 2 I I I --. ------------ --· --. ·- Totals .............. 4I I2 II 25 IS SYRACUSE IS-UNION IO. On Monday, May 25th, the nine started on their trip and played their first game at Syracuse. On the 25th the garne was interrupted at end of second innings on account of rain, the score standing 5 to 4 in favor ot Union. The next day she was not so fortunate. UNION. A. B. R. IB. P. 0. A. E. ---------- -- ---- --- -- Begley, c. and 2b....... S I I 3 2 I McDonald, p.... . . . . . . . S o o o 8 3 Dorwin,2bandc ....... S 2 2 5 3 2 La Monte, s. s. . . . . . . . . . 5 I I 3 2 I Landon, Ib............. 5 2 I 9 o I Johnson, 3b............. 5 2 2 + I o Hunsicker, I. f ..•....... 5 o I I I 2 Perkins, c. f.. . . . . . . . . . . 4 o o 2 o I Furman, r. f.... . . . . . . . . 5 2 o o o o --- ------------- Totals. . . • . . . . . . . . . . 4-+ IO 6 27 I6 I I SYRACPSE. A. B. R. IB. P. 0. A. E. --------------------------- - ------ ---- -------~ -- Hutchinson, s. s .. · · · · · · 4 4 3 0 2 I Wood, 3b. .. . . . . . . .. . . . . 5 o Bovingdow, Ib.. . . . . . . . 6 I Drake,p ............... 6 2 Hawkins, c.... . . . . . . . . . 6 2 I 2 0 0 0 9 0 2 2 2 12 2 I 9 I I Hall, r. f. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 3 2 I 0 0 Leete, l.f..... .. .. . . .. .. 6 3 2 I 0 I Bronner, 2b............ 6 I I 3 2 3 Kennedy, c. f. .. . . .. . .. . 6 2 I 0 0 I -- --- --~ -- Totals .............. 57 r8 I3 27 27 II UNION r6-HOBART 15. This game ran along smoothly until the second inning, when the umpire decided that a certain run did not score, but 011 appeal to the surrounding crowd after an inning or two had elapsed reversed his decis- . ion. Union refused to accept this, and the gatne standing a tie at the end of the 9th, counting this run,

I 10 THE CONCORDIENSIS. Union played another inning, under protest, in which ~ Hobart scored 7 runs, The gante will be brought to the notice of the next intet-collegiate meeting when we will probably be sustained. The following is the score for the first 9 innings: UNION. A. B. R. IB. P. 0. A. E. UNION Ji~-· HOBART· i5. Union easily defeated June 9th. Hobart on the campus, UNiON. A. B. R. I:B. P. 0. A. E. Begley, c ....... • · ··· . · ·- 6 5 3 9 McDonald, p ....... • ... - 5 · I o I 4 0 Begley, 2h .•.... · · · • · · · · 5 McDonald, p........... 4 2 5 5 3 IO o · Dorwin, 2b ....••....•.• 6 3 2 I 12 2 I 0 4 0 I I 2 0 0 I 0 0 I I I La Monte, s. s ..•.•..• ·- f 2 o I Derwin, c ............. · · 3 La Monte, s. s ... ·. · · · · · 5 2 3 4 2 b 4 o Landon, Ib ......... ;,., • f 3 3 If Landon, I b . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 2 2 · John son , 3 b . • . .. . . • . . . . .. 5 I o I Johnson, 3b............ 6 Hunsicker, 1. f. . . . . . • . • . 6 Perkins, c. f .... · .. · · · · • 4 Delaney, r. f .......•.•• • 5 Totals .... ·. • · · · · · · · · 44 I ~ 2 I I II II 0 I 0 I I I 0 I 0 27 2.2 I 2 0 0 0 6 HoBART. A. B. R. IB. P. 0. A. E. ------------------------------ Oliver, s. s.. . . . . . . . . . . . 5 3 2 I 4- 2 Howe, 2b and p. . . . . . . . 4 4 2 o IO I W at~ on, 3 b and p . . . . . . . 6 I 3 o 7 2 Pearson, I b. . . . . . . . . . . . 6 2 1 9 o I Way, c. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 2 o IO 1 o Kingsley, l.f.and3b .... .S I I I o 3 Harston,c. £ ••••••••••• 3 I o 3 o I Milligan, r. f.... . . . . . . . 4 I o I o o Halley, 3b and 1. f...... 5 o o 2 o o Totals. . .. . . .. .. .. . . fi 15 9 27 22 Io CORNELL 28-· UNION 2. The 28th of May was a sorry day for Union, as she was badly defeated by Cornell. McDonald showed the effects of pitching for three consecutive days. UNION. A. B. Begley, zb and c........ 4 McDonald, p ... · .... · • · 5 Dorwin, c. and 2b....... S La Monte, s. s .••... · · · · 3 Landon, rb ............ · 4 Johnson, 3b · · · · · · · · · · · 4 Hunsicker, 1. f. ... · · · · · · 4 Perkins, c. f ........ · · · · 3 Delaney, r. f. ...... · · · · · 4 Totals ..•.......... · 36 R, IB. I I 0 I 0 I 0 0 1 I 0 I 0 I 0. 0 0 I 2 7 P. 0. A. II 0 2 9 3 0 I 2 4 0 2 t I 0 2 0 I 0 27 I2 E. 2 0 I 2 2 I 0 3 0 II CORNELL. A. B. R. IB. P. 0. A. E. Hall, c . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 4 6 I 9 o Taylor, Jb ...... ·....... 7 3 4 o o Smith, Ib .. · · .... · · .. · · 7 4 3 5 I Dimon,s.s ............. 7 5 3 o 3 Ruyter, zb...... .. . . . .. . 7 4 4 o I Newbury, p . • . . . . . • . . . . . 7 2 I 2 I 7 Aldrich, r. f............ 6 3 3 o o Schriner, c. f........... 7 2 2 I o Johnson, 1. f.. .. . . .. .. . 6 I o o o ~~=-~~------------~--~ Totals ..•........... 6I 28 26 27 22 SCHENECTADY CITYS 2o-UNION 12. I 0 I 0 0 I 0 0 0 3 On Decoration Day Union was defeated by the Schenectady Citvs. Landon, Hunsicker and Perkins were absent, and Furman pitched the first two innings. I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Schenectady Citys .... 5 Union ................ I 7 2 0 5 I 0 I 2 0 I I 3 X-20 0 2 <r-I2 Hunsicker, 1. f, ........ -... 5 2 I o Perkins, c. f ............ , .• f 2 o o Earl, r. f. .......... ; .•..• 5 o o o --~------------~--------- Totals~ ........... -.- 4f I9 9 27 HoBART. A.. B. R. Oliver, s. s .••..•. , .•.• , ~ .5 2 Ho·we, 2b ...... ......• ,..... 4 3 Watson, 3b and P· .• . .... . 6 I Pearson, rb ......•. ·-·~ f 2 Parshall, p. and 3h...... 5 I W a} ... , c . . . . . . . .. ~ . . . •.. - , - 5 2 Jewett, 1. f ........... - . • 5 b Milligan, c. f .......•. -. . 3 2 Jarvis, r.f ......•...•.•..• 2 · 2 Totals •... 4 ............ 39 15 IB. I I I I 2 2 I 0 0 9 P. o. I I 2 If 0 7 2 0 0 25 5 A. E. 0 I 2 I I2 0 0 f 4 4 0 3 0 0 I 0 0 0 UNION I .3-. SYRACUSE Io. Again on June 15th Union showed her superiority on her own grounds. · - · U·NION. A. B. R. IB. P. 0. A. E. Begley, 2b ....... · ·- · •· · 3 4 I 3 4 2 McDonald, p ....... ·-·. 4 2 I o 8 I Dorwin,c ... p ......... 5 I 2 f 3 I LaMonte,s. s ............ S o 2 I 3 2 Landon,·2b..... ... •. •. . 5 I I 10 o o Marvin, c. f. •.•.•. ·-· .... 5 2 3 I o o Johnson, 3b ...... ·- . . 5 I I f 2 I Hunsicker, 1. f.......... S I 3 3 I o Perkins, r. [ ......... _ .. 5 I o I o o Totals ...... · • . - · • · · 42 I3 I3 27 2I 7 SYRACUSE. Hutchinson, s. s ....... . Hall,r.f ................ . Drake, p. and c ... ·~· ... . Hawkins, c. and p.- .... . Wood, 3b ..•.•. · · .... · · · · Connoly, 2b ............ . Leete, 1. f . ............... . Bovingdow, I b ...... - .•.• Kennedy, c. f. .......... . A. B. R. IB. P. 0. A. E. 6 2 I 0 5 I 5 I I 0 0 0 4 3 I I 10 0 5 2 I 10 6 I 5 0 I 0 3 2 2 I 0 2 I 0 4 0 0 0 0 2 4 0 0 II 0 0 5 I I 0 0 0 Totals.. . . . . . .. . . . .. . 40 IO :-------- 6 24 25 6 CLUBS. Corn.ell ........................ ~. · • ~~---;---;----;- S Hatntlton. . . . . . ... . ... . ... . • . . . . . .. . . . . . . o.- I. ~ I 3 U nio·n • • • • • • • • • • .. • • • • • •. • • • .. ~ • • • • • • • o· 0 -- 2. I ·3 Hobart ...... ........... ; ... ·~· ..•. ·~ .. o I o __; 2· 3 Syracuse . ................................ o. o 1 o. -· I Lost. . . . . . . . . . •. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . o 3 4 5: 6 20 .,·

