VOL. VIII. UNION COLLEGE, FEBRUARY 25, 1885. NO. 5· -----------------------------~-------------------------- PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE STUDENTS oF UNION CoLLEG-E. J. T. MOREY, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF. A. c. EGELsToN, 'Ss, F. s. RANDALL, '86, H. J. COLE, '86, T. R. WooDBRIDGE, '86,} E. M. CAMERON, '87, G. D. BUEL, '87, AssociATE LITERARY PERSONAL LOCAL WILLIAM IluTcHI::'-JSON, BusiNEss EDITOR. TERMS, $r.sorER YEAR, rN AnvANcE We desire our_frinuls io seJZd us co;dributions, t'tems of iJderest a1td ill/o rmatio;z concerning· Alunwi. All busi11.ess letters should be addressed to ·the Busi- ?tess Editor. Entered at tlte Posto[fice, Schenectady, N. Y., as second-class matter. -------------~----- PRINTED BY CHAS. BURROWS, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. ------------- -------- ------ - - - -- - - - - -- --- - EBITOI\IfiL. ~N this number will be found the prayer- · ~ day sern1on of Dr. Wortman, which we l h ave no doubt \Vi 11 be read with interest G;) by n1any. To those, howtver, who are accuston1ed to skip such reading, we would say that nothing is taken thereby from the usual an1ount of n1atter in the CoN- CO-RDIENsrs. ;t(lfrE \vould suggest to the committee in ~ charge· the propriety of turning their ~ attention to the n~eds of the reading- ! room. The daily papers have nearly ~ all disappeared fron1 the table, and the magazines are also becoming conspicuous by their absence. We presume that this state · of affairs is brought about by the expiration of subscriptions, and the lack of funds £or their rene\val. It would seem, though, that by a little extra exertion on the part of the committee sufficient n1oney might be raised to place on file for the remainder of the year so1ne ·Of the most important papers. W-e hope that an effort, at least, in this direction wi1l be made. J~HE managers of the minstrel troupe are 1 to be congratulated upon the success of ru'f0 their first appearance. Of course con_ j siderable tin1e and trouble was required k of the different members in th.eir preparation, _but the \visdorn of adopting this means of raising the desired n1oney has been plainly shown. Although the expectations of many were more than met, there still re- mains a considerable deficit to be filled, and in addition it is desired to raise funds for the expenses of the con1ing season. In further- ance of this we heartil_y con1mend the pur- pose entertained by several men1bers of the company of visiting during the coming spring vacation and giving entertainments in some of the adjacent to·wns. This would perhaps inconvenience a few ; but they ought, and undoubtedly would be, willing to make a little sacrifice for the common interest. But a very sn1all part of the work of original preparation would would have to be under- gone, and during the week of vacation a sufficient sum would no doubt be realized, besides furnishing a very pleasant time to those taki ~g part without at all interfering with college duties.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. mE would call attention to the com- more enthusiasm in this direction. We do ~ rnunication in regard to the election · most thoroughly believe that it is of prime ~ of editors. We heartily approve of importance for every student to take an ·L· the plan proposed, and hope to see . active part in this exercise, and accuston1 · action taken by the students in regard himself, as vv-e have frequently said before, to it at no distant date. While the plan is to think on his feet. not all that we would wish, it is still a step in the right direction. Z:F there is any one ~vil at our coll~ge th:tt . $ has been fully discussed and IS most rv~ plainly apparent, it is that of studying I during the morning chapel ex~rcises. cJ Efforts of a mild nature have repeatedly been made by the faculty to remedy the evil, . but a glance around the chapel any morning during services will show how wholly inef- fectual those efforts have been. It may be said that the students ought to look at the matter seriously, and refrain of th8-ir own ac- cord from such a practice. Well, that is true, but any one acquainted with college ways knows that they will not do so. A practical rather than a theoretical solution of the trouble is needed. We would, there- fore, urge that stringent mea~ures be used by the faculty to secure a proper observance of the morning service. mE have received a con1munication call- y ing attention to the fact that the ~ complaint made in the CoNCORDIENSIS t some tin1e ago in regard to the con- i clition of the bath-roon1s and adjoin- ing con1partn1ents had received no attention from the authorities; that in fact they are in a worse condition than before. The entire communication, which is forcibly written, is in accord with our opinion, though for various reasons we have thought best not to publish it. Attention is also called to the lack of in- terest shown in the literary societies, and the CoNCORDIENSIS is asked to aid in arousing ~N regard to the management of the. hall ~ nine for the coming season a few sugges- tions and criticisms 1nay not be OUt of order. It is generally acknowledged by @ the students that the base-ball depart- ment last year was a comp1ete failure. While we have already made the correction in re- gard to hiring professionals, nothing has been done about the mg_nagement, and it is the purpose of this article to produce, or at least to start, a reform in this direction. There is, it seems, something radically wrong about the whole system of managing the nine. The senior director is manager, treasurer advisory and auditing board, all in one. As no account of disbursements is ever rendered, it is quite plain that honesty in addition to judgment is a very requisite qualification. Now what we propose is to form some sort of a board of the class direc- tors and as n1an y n1ore as it would be policy to add. The senior director shall be chair- man and shall disburse the funds according to the direction of the board. The treas- urer shall be elected by the board or at the college meeting where the organization of such a board shall be effected. A report, shall be rendered at the close of the season, to be printed in THE CoNCORDIENSIS or read at a college meeting. Thus we would have an efficient and business-like management, and would be less like1y to suffer from errors ofjudgn1ent. These suggestions are entirely general and are made from a business point· of view, simply to establish a precedent of a more sensible custom than the one now in vogue.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 43 A Sermon Preached in Union College on the Day of Prayer for Col- leges, Thursd~y, January 29 1 1885 1 by Rev, Denis Wort- man, D. D., of the Reformed Ohu.xoh, Saugerties, N.Y. \If a man die, shall he live again.\-7ob I4: I4· ~HIS. language of Job w?uld seeiT_J to some 1 to Imply a doubt of 1mmortahty; pos- j sib1y even a persu·asion against it. Hardly, though, when critically viewed. I take the vivid translation of your own, our own, beloved and lan1ented Dr. Tayler Lewis : · '' 0 that in Sheol Thou wouldst lay me up; That Thou wouldst hide 1ne tin ]'hy wrath shall turn,- Set me a time, and then remember me. Ah, is it so? \Vhen man dies, does he live again? Then all the days appointed me I '11 wait, Till my reviving come. Then Thou wilt call, and I will ans-wer Thee.\ There is the n1elancho:l y thought of death, of utter ending; now con1es the sacred sug- gestion: Ah, so? Live again? So does the heart-hope whisper? Even so ! So does even the paganisn1 of surrounding nations say? Even so! . \Ah is it so? When man dies, does he live again? Theil all the days appointed me, I '11 wait, Till my revivi1ll!' com(' !'' Great question, immense, awful, divine! If a man die, shall he live again ? Some n1ay not wish it. I can conceive a man so troubled with life as to desire to run no risk of more; so worn out with fighting temptation as to court an ending of the con- test; so consciously deserving of vast penalty for sin as to desire an eternal escape fron1 very being. But to most the thought of annihilation is supremely terrible. Man clings to life oftPn for the mere joy of living. The feeling is innate, God~born. One has a strange curiosity to live on and see what next. He is allied to manifold interests, bound up in many a dear relation. The precious ties that bind him to his kind and kin-the thought that these hal y bonds are to be by death i ndis- solubly broken, thrills through him with a pang of unutterable woe. No, he must live on, and even run the risks of judgment. If a man die, shall he live again? No f Well, then, good-bye to hope; good-bye to friends forever; good-bye to spiritual ambi- tions! .Is life worth living then ? Oh, after a sort, but not right worthily. Make me a brute, on1 y a brute ; sotnewhat better than a dog, to be sure, or a horse, or a chimpan- zee, but a brute ; and n1ore or less of a brute I sha..H be 1i kel y to live. If a man die, shall he live again ? Yes .f! Th~n, oh my soul, pause here-right here and novv. Contemplate the dignity of thy being: God deemeth thee worthy of immor- tality. Contemplate what thou canst make of thyself, for it's forever now. Contem- plate thine all but infinite possibilities of developn1ent in power, use, grace, glory, and see tllon achieve something worth thy while. Consider thyself a noble ship, bound for a glori;()US kingdom, sailing on rough seas, freigbted with infinite treasures ; and see thon ·sail straight on for the true haven, spri11g no leak, nor wreck thyself, and lose thy cargo all! If a man die,. shall he live again ? So at least did one. One, the greatest in all our humaa line, died and lived again. Died, died well; died a hero, a martyr, a Re- deenjer ; died, no tnistake of it ; died of a broken heart; died of crucifixion tortures. J ewislt bigotry and the Ron1an imperialism saw to it that he died-died even before the Roman spear was thrust into that divine heart; but on the third clay He rose, alive, strong, a conqueror, a great Saviour. Yes, He rose, of course ; was \vorth y of it; wa.s the Son of God ; was a great hero, marty,r. But shall we? Now is Christ risen from the dead and become the first fruits of them that sleep! For since by n1an came death, by n1an can1e also the resurrection of the clead. All hail ! great, admirable First Fruits of us who sleep! This desire for immortality, universal in the human heart; what are its lower and higher gratifications in fulfilhn en t? Wlzat are tlu; iJJnnortalities possible to 1nan? Tb.ere is the ftnnzortality {Jf 1-?.etzown. Man wishes to be known, known favorably, knovvn widely out in time as well as in space, known when living, remembered after he is gon·e ; will be remembered though he have to b.urn the temple of Delphi to have it so; will be remembered though for the pur- pose he have to burn up that still superior

44 THE CONCORDIENSIS. temple of his body and his soul by ambi- ... tious fires. This desire is in nate, not wholly wrong ; it is a part of the natural desire for power ; it grows largely out ot a craving for human appr0val, which in turn is a sort of leaning upon other folk Not necessarily selfish, it is, however, mostly so ; though it may be ot1ly an indication -of a large self-hood, not a large selfishness. Honesty, truth, genuineness, character, justice, faith, me,~cy-in these consists im- n'lortalness, not in the shams of fame. By these shall you be remembered, even by the eternal God, when your theaters are burned down, and your monuments are crun1 bled to dust. ''The fame that a man wins himself is best; That he tnay call his own: honors put on hitn Make him no more a man than his clothes do.\ Usua1ly, though, it is of a selfish and Let us condense that saying down into really a vulgar tone. A handsome monu- · this personal prayer: .f\lot Jzonors on 111e., but mer1t in the cemetery, a little bett~r than true lzonor -hz llle. one's neighbors., just as one likes to live in · So there is a ti\ue im.mortality of fame a finer house~ or ride in a handsomer car- \vhen based on character, on worth, on lov- riage. If it be not fron1 a simple art-sense ing and brave deeds. Such fame is to be of intrinsic beauty, or of propriety, it is all desired. It lasts. God owns it, keeps it. v·ulgar. So fame, a great renown founded Founded on justice and truth and love, it on some martial exploit, or a great writing, · has a base as broad and firn1 as the pyra- or even a wide doing of g-ood, if it be to be 1nids. It is as strong as the pyramids. It seen of men. Such an1bitions have their re- survives like them and crun1bles not away, ward, but what poor rewards they be. Who nor is hid. All the ages may cast their 1ninds your proud monument! Who respects earth over and around it ; yet, like the your n1ere riches? Who cares, by-and-by, for pyran1ids along the Nile, it shall stand your fame? What consolation do they af- out above all the sands of tin1e, itnperishable · ford you while living? vVhat advantage to a;nd an1ong the wonders of the world. you in the final Judgment, appearing before Another imn1ortality is that which is in the great King and God, coming out of the Line of Hutnatz Generation. From family richer tombs, or costlier equipages, or larger to family, fron-. generation to generation, fames? there is the transn1ission of life, life-force, This, all this, is an in1n1ortality which is life-quality, life temperan1ents and tenden-· no in1m.ortality at all. It is a dead-living. cies. Abraham cotnes nearer to immortality It is a mortal immortality. It is an ahnost through Isaac and Jacob, and they all, and infatnous fame! Such life is not grand, only Judah, and. Ruth, and David, through their grandiose. It is a selfish, gross immortality, long pron1ised issue-that supreme type of poisoned through and through with the virus our divine humanity in the babe of Bethle- of real death. · hem ! l\1en may therefore be regarded as Young men, be above such paltriness. Be existent again in their posterity. Thus man brave, not to make a good show, but just to does live again. The generations of our do a true and noble deed, thinking of no race, coming and going in their en<.lless sue- danger, dreaming of no applause. Be good, cession, trctnsmit down to future years and not because it is profitable to your reputa- nations yet unborn the types of humanity tion, or your pocket, or your physical com- they formed. fort, or the quiet of your conscience; but There is something startling in this-~ because go0dness is right, is God-like, is start1ing1y beautiful, startlingly painful, both. what befits your imtnortal\nature is the only Blood tells. There is inheritance of form, thing for a redeemed soul to be n1ade up of! of feature, of health, of disease, of moral and Why should we be actors on a theatrical in1n1oral tendencies. Not so largely as to sta_;e, all of us, any of us, mimics; playing constitute an iron fate, but imn1ense physi- as suits our audience; being soldiers, or ca1, moral, spiritual leanings and possibilities. pirates, or poets, or. Christians, or rakes. It behooves every one to see to hi mse]f; whichever shall gain the loudest shouts of then for his children as well as for himself. applause? He may be a felon if that suits his taste, but

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 45 let h:im not rnake his child one. He may be only the n1ela.ncholy reflection that we are a drunkard, hut what right has he to trans- in1mortal in our succeeding race; in1mortal mit a vicious appetite to his son? He n1ay in whatever influence, good or bad, survives be lustful, licentious; a body, an imagina- us. Only in this; no n1ore. Melancholy tion, a soul, all putrid with corruptions; but refuge of infidelity! And is this all? for the sake of an that is decent let hi1n be- And yet I would not have you disdain ware how he ventures to be this, and then this. Along with the great fact of the real the father of a licentious posterity. Would and conscious immortality of one's own pet·- I rnight say to all men this: 0 men who sonal being, take this also ; for it is a fact, 1nind not how you fill your bodies with and a grand one, that thus we do live in our strong drink and your minds with adulteries, deeds. Blessed are the de;;td which die in the children cry out, aye, the children cry the Lord, that they may rest from their out against your transmitting to then1 a de- labors; and their works do follow them. bilitated virtue, a corrupted taste. a nature The good, the evil that men do, goes down with a trend toward vice! If you die, and in the centuries with ever- compounding inter- your children are to live again, then in them e~t. More potent to- day are the epistles .of be men ; n1en in eve-ry noble sense; men Paul, the songs of David, the protests of pure, men strong, men virtuous, men ten1- Luther against superstition, the sermons perate, men righteous, the full, true men and the 111artyrdoms and the sacrifices and you should be. 1-\ye, be n1en now, and de- the lives and prayers of ancient centuries, liver down to those in whon1 you shall re- than when first lifted up before the world. peat your life a noble, honorable n1anhood - They have been giant grovvths among the a pure and beautiful and graceful woman- world's great garden years; and they have hood! by no means died; but, growing statelier, But again. If a man die, shall he live stouter, more fruitful thr-ough the successive again? Yes, in his Individual Potelltial In- . generations, they have ccn tinued to feed jlzterzce. There is the in1mortality of a per- .. earth's hungering populations as from very sonal influence. You die; yes, you must; ! trees of life-all the more abundantly as they you will ; you can't help that ; but you can ! have aged. live on and you will, as long as the ages: , This sort of immortality, I say, by no means live in the sentiments you advocate, live in 1 scorn. Plant good trees all along your life; the example you manifest. live in the choice i not fooleries, and shams, and mean exam- sweetness and beauty of your spirit, or in all 1 ples, and puerilities, and heartless things~ its hard grossness and withering, poisonous ! and deadly U pas trees of vice ;· but true: breath. I trees of life, whose fruit, whose very leaves,. If a man die, shall he live again? Yes, a shall be for the healing of mighty nations,. tbousand times over; live in his children; All this aln1ost implies a great deal more .. live in the wide con1munity; live to curse, All this magnificence of asf'ociation suggests or live to bless his race. a certain magnificence of existence. Is such There be those who deem this the only excellence to perish utterly at last? Is there imn1ortality we have: materialists. They not also an f1nmortal Conscious Lzfe .tt What believe that the human consciousness is sublime fact has every Christian Sunday an- evolved out of matter only. They believe nounced through all these ages? What that all the beauties of man's imagination, great thought swells the chorus of the annual all the splendors of his will, all the glowing Easter morn ? What but the resurrection fervors of his love, all his sacrifices and am- from the dead of our dear Lord ; of Him, bitions and great heroisms, are the results the Man, the Son of Man, the Son of God, only of certain combinations of physical the consummate flower and fruit of all our atoms; and when those physical atoms are human race, than whom tb ere is none love .. disarranged, the magnificent intellectual and lier, stronger, more human, more divine! moral life is ended. Such, some of you will He yet lives, in Heaven ; yes, on the remember, is the sad philosophy of George earth as well ; alive here on earth forever- Eliot's DartieZ Derottda ~· and there is left more. Lives, did I say? Yes, livts in the

THE CONCORDIENSIS. hearts of His people; lives in the loves and quent on this; that life which stretches out lives He generates in them by His inspiring immeasurably beyond our finite visi0n ; that e xarnple ; lives in that Christian civilization life which Nature, indeed, but di:mly sees whreb. ever since His time has been spr·ead- and indistincly testifies unto; that life which ing over our globe; lives in those profound ·the enen1ies of the gospel love to discredit, teach-ings of His which ever since His day involving therein a denial of their own con- have been revolutionizing the educations, the tinuance of happy being-that life consti- ph,iilosophies, the ethics of the world; lives • tntes a part of the immortality of Christ- in the refinen1ents. and elevations He has aye, after all, is a chief feature of its in1mor- given to womanhood, the gentleness,. new · talness. Albeit he was so to live in great ooura.ge and fresh might to 1nen; lives in • potency through the ages and generations of tb e sublime exalted ness of human lives, · mankind, the Scriptures deign to notice that and in the comforting, strengthening hopes He rose again. It was not enough of satis- 1-I e has nourished in them of a glorious i~m-. faction to the bruised hearts of the three n1ortality on high! Marys that he should live in their mernory Lives, did I say, in the memories of men, and love. To them, for all such fond ·mern- in their admiration and regard and love? orv, he was dead. Nor to the world is such Hear what even Theodore Parker testifies li~ing of dear Christ enough. Nay, nor to ab{)ut H1m. Thus reverently utters he in God is it enough. And so, being dead, He pra. yer his encomium on Jesus: . rose agauz. '' ·Chiefliest of all do we bless Thee for that \He lives, He lives, who once was dead; 11 oble son of Thine, born of a peasant mother He lives, my ever-living Head! and a peasant sire, who in days of great He lives, triumphant from the grave; dark ness went before men, His life a pillar He lives eternally to save!'' of fire leading them into marvelous light and He lives! The Romans cannot find His peace and beauty. We thank Thee for His eorpse. The Marys see Him alive. The words, so lustrous with truth; for His life, disciples see Him again and again and again, fragrant all through with piety and be nevo-1 on one occasion three l:undred of them at lence; yea, Lord, we bless Thee for the! once. They see Him often, talk with Him, death which sinful hands nailed into his i break bread with Him, behold Him rise into lacerated flesh, when throti.gh the wounds II the air, and a cloud receives Him out of their tbe spirit escaped_ triumphant ·unto Thee,. sight. a no could not be holden of mortal death. ! We, too, at death pass into our cloud; our We thank Thee for the triun1phs which at- i friends gaze surpriseC: upon us as we enter tend that name of Jesus, for the dear blessed- ! into its shadows ; then behold us no n1ore, ness which His life has bestowed upon us, no 1nore! no more, here! seot bing the pathway of toil, softening the But now this Jesus Christ, this o-.reat per. pillow of distress, and brightening the way · fection and type of manhood-is this imrnor- whereon truth con1es down fron1 Thee, and tality for Him alone .tt Is He alone, to come life to 1'hee goes ever ascending up. Father, out from the sod and to pass into the hea- we thank Thee for the blessings which this vens, only survivor of all this world of men; great, noble soul has widely scattered not having redeemed any, after .all, but to throughout the world, and n1ost of all for dwell in His divine-human solitariness for- th is, that His spark of fire has revealed to I ever, an eternal reminder of a race wholly us Thine own divinity enlivening this mor- I perished ; aye, an eternal reminder of His taJ human clod, and prophesying such nople own useless incarnation in humanity? future of achievement here on earth and in Blessed be God, we read. \God hath 1'bine own kingdom of Heaven with Theel'' raised up the Lord; and will raise up us also Yes, Jesus yet lives in that grand pot en- by ] esus. '~ \As in A darn all (who follow tial life, His influence gathering to itself new his sin) die; so in Christ shall all (who fol- volume and force as it comes down the years. low His righteousness) be made alive.\ Yet even all of this is not enough of immor- ''Christ the first fruits; afterward they that taJity for Him. That life which is conse- are Christ's at His coming.\ \Now is Christ

'THE CONCORDIENSIS. 47 risen from the dead, and become the first evolution limited, and very hmited, I should fruits of them that slept.\ hold the firm belief that the hopes man yes, this is the ardent, unquestioning has ever had of immortality, his dread hope of every believer in. the gospel of our of annihilation,. the way he seeks to prove Lord. Toward this doctrine Nature has his immortality, his ardent craving for it, and ever tried to feel her way, and in the dark- general belief in it, I say I should hold t?at · these were indications that he was putting ness of her night ha:s stumbled over it aga1n 1 d · . sometimes has grasped it and h.imself in the way for it, and would deve op an aga1 n , · t · :1 he1d tightly to it; sometimes for a season In ° It· . ~ . . (j . has let o her hold . Y. et ever and anon has i I ~ave refet red ~o. the ar o uments man · g ' · · d b 1 finds In nature for thts Immortal hope. felt her way on toward It agc:un, rawn Y a 1 ~ 0 . 1-. • 1 b 1· f th t h · · · · · 1' · · · ne Is t•lls universa e 1e a e Is I m- an Inborn long1ng for Imn1orta tty so strong 1 and undying, a~ to constitute in itself a pre-~ moT-rta · h . t t r · f · h · ·t d t th o many t ere IS a s rong argumen 10r sumpt1on o Its aut ent1c1 y an ru . . 1 . . h t th b r t. b a fact . . . ? N . IImmorta 1ty In w a · · ey e 1eve o .· e . If a man die, ~hall h~ hve a~ain · ature, that the spirits of departed human beings, ?as _eve~ hoped It. It IS a behef th_at seems and also spirits of good and evil, other than Instin.cti~e In rna?, a very part of his hum~n hutllan, make their presence known to the constituti?n. Wit? more or less of chs- human senses. To us who reject the spir- tin:tness It enters Into the thougl:t of ev~ry itualistic interpretation of the strange phe- natlon, every language, eve_ry tnbe. ~Ith nomen a, the q uic !z seizure of the spiritual- only a f~w barbarous exceptions, the Indian, istic belief by thousands who have been the Afncan, the earl:y peoples . ~f Europe, skeptical of all else that was supernatural the va~t hordes of China, of ~nd~a,_ of Japan, before, is a striking disclosure of the strong ?~the Islands of ~h_e sea, the_ Individual fan:-! hold the hope of in1mortality has on the Illes of the s.hemi_tiC, Hamn1Ite and Japhetic human mind, an emphatic affirn1ation of the races, 9-ll believe It. intuitive nature of this belief. This would indicate this idea to be in cor- . Another is that dra\vn fro1n the presumable porate in h urn an na~u re, jus_t as mo~al ideas , in1n1ateriality of the soul. It need not die are, and just as reliable; either this or the because the body does. Each human con- dim tradition of an early knowle_dge through sciousness n1ay fairly be considered an indi- revelation. If through revelation, then of: vidual, indestructible atom. course confessedly _true If not through i The continuance of life again under other revelation, but really as it were in son1e way : forms is illustrated in nature, where the instinctively; I say if only instinctively so, i larva or worm becomes the apparently dead or if only through a certain longing for im-: cocoon, and this in turn the .living gilded mortal existence, then on the ground 3 of nat- I butterfly. ural science, of natmral selection, a strong 1 It would seem an impossibility to consider presumption in its favor, to be admitted as the moral government of this world com- such by those who claim to be advanced plete, with all its unequal and unjust rewards scientists; since, upon their O\Vn principle, of righteousness and sin, without son1e the line of development of races has ever future life in which a rectification might been in the direction of their persistent take place. aspiring and struggling, each becoming grad- It would seem against nature he.rself that ually transforn1ed into what it seeks to be; the partial developments of human genius, therefore, each deep intuition, aspiration, a education, plans, consecrations, should be prophecy of what by .. and-by shall be brought I left in that deplorable incompleteness where about; and so, according to science, man's death so strangely interferes. What be- immortality, indicated and brought about at con-:1es of the learning, the invention, the last, through a process of natural develop- power, the poetry, the genius, the elaborate ment, by n1an's strong hoping and struggling education, the moral training, the martyr after it! Were I believer. in the doctrine j heroism, the great spiritual treasures of all of evolution all through, and not merely an the great souls ?

8 4 THE CONCORDIENSIS. And, as I have said, the scientific doctrine that purest of lovers, that helpfuUest of of development and survival of the fittest, Saviours, and to us who believe in Him the \vould indicate the universal human passion · very God incarnate in one flesh; here come for imm.artality to be a prophecy it shall so in the masterful utterances of that n1ost turn out. masterful soul, who, to say nothing of his Not a bad argument is found in the sup· divine character, has given to ordinary hu- posed and scientifically taught indestructi- man view the deepest, clearest, strongest bility of matter and of force. If n1atter moral intuitions of any of our race. \Thy perishes not, n1 ay not the sa1ne be argued . brother shall rise again.\ _ for soul? This strange human conscious- He says, \I am the resurrection and the ness of ours, the ego, the me, the conscious · life.\ ''I go to prepare a place for you.\ Be- myself, this consciousness can appertain to lieve in Him, beilieve his ~vords; discredit no other, can be changed to no other con- his words, discredit Him , discredit Him, sciousness. If changed at all, it is anni-. then class him with the pretenders of our hilated. And on this the poets ring their sad human history! Discredit Him, well changes, being persistently set against such then discredit aU men and all things else! waste. Discredit Him, next discredit your own ''Can it be ? moral taste ! Matter immortal? and shall spirit die? Of course, the arguments fron1 the inspired Above the noble shall less noble rise? Shall man alone, for whom all else revives, Scriptures generally (I an1 not speaking, you No resurrection know? Shall tnan alone, understand, of the resurrection of the body, Imp~ri-~l,.man! be so~n. in barre~ ground, , ?'' but the i 1n mortality of the soul), are only Les!:l pr n Ileged than gt at n, on wh1ch he feeds. . . f ll . h A . h f b . ·. · It C . b h ll Immense , proo a t 1oug rom eg1nn1ng was 1cero, you remem ec w o so we d . f · h . T f , · t' .. t t th . · 1 h f ''Tl to en , proo lD t e story o mans crea lOll, s a es 1s un1versa ope o man. 1ere f · h · d · h · ·f · 1 k h · th · d f proo · 1n t at man 1s ma e In t e 1n1age o IS now not ow In e 1n1n s o rnen a . · f , ' . '. ~ God ; proof frorn the warnings against uture certatn presage, as 1t were, of a future ex1s- I t \b t' f f th t 1 d d h · k h d d 1 re n u 10 n ; p roo rom e e er na a war s ten ce, an t 1s ta es t e eepest root, an ! • d t h r d f: · th f f is most discoverable in the greatest geniuses i ·tphrotm;se ·t 0 t 0 lnhess q.n f fatl .l ; bP 1 .roo. trhomt d t 1 d 1 , , a 10re as e we ave o u ure 1ss In a an mos exa te sou s. d bl\ h. 1 · h b B t · tt · 11? St t' sacre · Iss w 1c 1 now 1s ours- eaven e- u IS 111s a . rono- presump tons as 11 h 1 f f h wide nature ~ives in beautiful syrnbolisms, in ~untreta Y ehre onfefar·tt 1 ; proo. rtobm t laft . . . 1ore as e we ave o u ure woe In e se - the constitution of man, and In the apparent . . 1 · t f th · · th · condemnations and tortures we now and here ~~o~a {ei~~reml~nt~ ~ N ~. umve.rse ;? IS A 1 ~ suffer from our sins; proof from the ap- ~ i:h s 1 ~h ~ b a, % ~~e glV~S · n pearance in Bible days of departed spirits, IS e:e n? Ing eyon ese s ro~g pre- as Moses and Eli as ; proof from the fact of s11mptions t Well, these be strong Indeed, J ' d th (d! d H 1 t · .and give us noble hopes l So join we heartily testus eat . ; .tie h e ?o)n Y orfofur retihn- . h t th t · C t · t d b Ad s a em en 1n vu ue ere. proo rom e ~~ w a · e ? 01 ~ da 0 1 ~~epr~stn e Y - recognitions of dear ones promised us in the Ison as saying In eep oug 1 : hereafter ; proof from the whole plan a~d \It must be so; Plato, thou reason est well; k f { f S · · Else whence this pleasing hope, this fond desire, wor o redemption ; proo rom the av1our s This longing after immortality? ]:JrOnlise to the dying t~ief of seeing him in Or whence this secret dread and inward horror, Paradise ; proof from the translations of Of falling into naught? Why shrinks the soul Enoch and Eli]. ah ,· proof from spiritual Back on herself and startles at destruction? 'Tis the divinity that stirs within us; resurrections here as syn1bolizing our resur- 'Tis heaven itself that points out an hereafter, rection on the last day ; proof from those an- And intimates eternity to man.'' ticipative visions Paul had, and Stephen, and But after all, even all this, is this, all this, John, of the glories of th~ heavenly world ; all ? proof from the resurrection of Christ, and Here, my friends, come in the profounder the hope based thereupon, of the resurrec- teachings of that Man of men, that pro- tion of those that live by faith in Him; foundest of philosophers, that most spiritual proof frotn the ascension into heaven of the of all holy souls, that divinest of teachers, human form and nature of Christ; proof

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 49 from that continuity of be in a expressed in the doctrine, that he that is filthy shall he fil.thy still, and he that is holy shall be holy still; proof from the great multitudes of passages in every gospel and epistle of the New Testament, affirming the resurrection of the body and 'the life everlasting, the future rewards of virtue and of sin, the sorrow of the lost, and the multitude, the holiness, the occupations, the home, the glory of the ransomed and redeemed! Yes, if man dies, he shall live again ! Not then in vain the holy attempts of those w~o recognize their great imperfectness. yet wish and pray for better things; for He is able to pr~sent the~ faultless before the presence of H1.s glory w~th exceeding joy. Not in vain a patient continuance in well-doing, for to it shall God award eternal life. Not in vain al.l arduous and faithful overcon1ing, for to h1m that ovcrcon1eth will I give to eat of the tree of life which is in the midst of the P~radise of God. Not in vain a doing of I-I IS cotnln and1nen t, for blessed are they that do_ His commandments, that they may hav~ nght to the tree of life, and may en- ter In through the gates into the city. Not in vain the endurance of great losses, for he that loseth his life shall find it. Not in vain the heroic bearing of torturous martyrdom. · T~ese ~re they who have come out of great tnbulat1ons and have washed their robes and made the1n white in the blood of the I.Jam b. They are before the throne of God and serve him day and night in his tetnple ;'they shall hun~er no more, neither thirst any more ; neither ~hall tbe sun light on th en1, nor any heat. For the I..an1b which i~ in the midst of the throne shall feed them, and shall lead them unto living fountains of waters, ~nd God shall wipe away all tears fro1n their eyes. Certain their glo_ry. Not the great, deep, strong sea shall h1de them from their re- wards ; eyen. the sea shall give up the dead that are 1n It. Not rocks and 1nountains pile:l upon then1 shall keep then1 frotn their glonous ascents to God. Marvel not at this. The hour is coining in which all that are in the grave shall hear His voice, and shall come forth ; they that have done o-ood unto the resu.rrection of life ; and they that have ctone evil unto the resurrection of damnation. ... 0~, not in va~n, th:n, the blessed hope we chensh. Not In va1n the hope, too good almost for the suffering Job to indulge strongly. \If a: m.an die sha.ll he liv·e again? Then all the days appointed me I'll wait Till my reviving come. Then Thou wilt call, and r ·will answer Thee! I kno\v that n1y Redeerner lives, And o'er m v dust Survi Yor shal'l lie stand l\1y skin al(gone, this ren1nant they may ;end; Yet fr01n 1nv flesh shaH I Eloah see S \ ' hall see H in1 mine! l\.fine eyes ~hall see II im; stranger now no more!'' Oh, ye sons of n1en, who seek to be true sons of God, hope on, toil on, pray on, endure on; and by and by eternity shall draw near, and for the body of this vileness ye shall have the incorruptible body of the skies; and ~or your tears, everlasting joy; and for yo.ur Incompleteness, the full perfection of the sa1nts; and for your faltering faith, the full and blessed vision of the Lord; and for man's negl __ ec~ and scorn, the pleasing recognition of Chnst ; for your ·wearisome toil eternal rest fron1 care ai1d grief in hearty,' healthy \Vork; for unhallowed unsubmissions an en- . ' tire accord with the sweet will of God ; for ~11 your pr~sent, discordant songs, one long, JUbilant praise; and for the frequent dolorous defeats by sin aga~nst your will in you, vic- tory! VIctory ! VIctory complete! Victory eternal, through the blood of the Lamb! .. Sur~ly, young n1en, surely you shall claitn that v1~tory_; surely you shall 1nake high and ch1valnc contention for it. I cannot think tha! Y?u who are at the very threshold shall P.ut 1~ Jeopardy such weighty, glorious, unending hfe You will prize it above all pleasure, or riches, or fan: e. Nay, this shall be your pleasure, be your treasure, be your n~blest r~nown. This promiseful life, you will seek Its regeneration and eternal saving ~hrough the grace of Jesus. You will make It honorable through devotion to just causes. Surely you will comn1it it to His care and service who laid do·wn His n1agnificent life for you ! \A sacred burden is this life ye bear: Look on it, lift it, bear it solemnly· sy~nd up and walk beneath it ste~~dfastly; Fail not for scJorrO\V 1 falter not for sin, But onward, U}1ward, till the goal ye win.\ . Y.e young n1en with these splendid possi- b1ht1es before you, ren1em ber what Herrick said long ago : \That man lives twice, that lives the first half well.''

so THE CONCORDIENSIS. ~.all ~oEtlu anow. ~ ~ ':J ~ Fan softly snow, The flowers below in their long sleep Lie buried deep, And lifeless keep Till gentler breezes blow. Thy mantle spread Above the dead, And through the night, Till morning 'light, Fall softly snow. Fall softly snow, My love below Beneath thy spread Lies cold and dead, And I am wed To deep and bitter woe. And when I He Her side close by; And while we sleep In silence deep, Fall softly snow. ARNO. ----------------------------------- 116 8i0take. ''~frELL, wh.at is it? What in blazes are Y you hopping around the room. in that ~ undignified way for? I n~ver saw r . such an idiotic grin. on a man in my r life!\ The above expressions were called forth by some rather extraordinary actions of n1y room-mate. I had just come up from the post-office and given him his mail, and after opening a daintly directed envelope he had indulged in self-congratulations and foolish actions to such an extent that I was forced to speak as I did. Tom stopped in his tpad career, and, gathering up the skirts of his dressing-gown, seated hin1self before the fire in silence. \Well I don't mind telling you if you'll keep quiet about it,'' said he presently. \But to tell the truth, I never was so happy in my life, and that's what made me act so foolish.\ Lighting his pipe and settling him- . self, he continued : \You remember the last college ball? Well, as luck would have it, I was introduced to a Miss Leeland from S To say I was favorably impressed hardly expresses it, for before the ball was ended I was clear gone, and finding she was visiting one of the young ladies in the city, obtained permission to call. In a short time I became convinced, as I have a hundred times before, that I had rnet my fate. Cer- tain it is I took ad vantage of every oppor- tunity to see her, as you know by the amount of bolts it occasioned, and if affairs hadn't taken this turn I'd have had to give up either college work or her ladyship, for I couldn't attend to both at the san1e tin1e. I.Jast Friday night we had a coasting party over on Franklin hill, and there a little inci- dent happened which has made n1e so blue before I got this 1 etter. It was a beautiful moonlight night, just a little cloudy, and the coasting was excellent. We had hired a couple of boys and their bobs for the even- ing, so all we had to do was to attend to the girls and hang on. The girls hung on pretty well, too, for the way in which the young · lady behind me hung on to my neck as we whizzed along over the icy path would have done credit to a professional lemon-squeezer. Everything would have· gone off splendidly if those little devils who n1anaged the bobs hadn't wanted to be s1nart and put up a job on us. You knovv at the bottom of the hill there is a bridge, and the approach to this bridge on the down side is ~ade hy a rather high turnpike. J u~t on the last slide they ran us off that turnpike, by mistake of course, and dun1ped the whole load into a deep snow drift at the bottom. Such yelling and scream- ing and confusion as followed I never ex- perienced before, and, to cap the climax, just then the 1noon went under a cloud. The snow was soft, and some of us were com- pletely immersed. Scrambling out as soon

THE CONCORDIENSIS. as possible I looked for Miss Leeland, and. in the dim light of the moon, which was then just breaking through the clouds, saw only a bit of color in the bank, and that I · took to be her diminutive red mitten. You, know I get excited so easily that I was quite·, likely to be mistaken 13ut I made a grab • and pulled. The first yank I n1ade brought • forth a surprised little squeal. I pulled again, This time the squeal was a :good deal louder .. and attracted the attention of the other fellows, who had succeeded in ~xtricating their ladies, and stopped brushing them to see what was the n1atter. There I stood like a confounded idiot, pulling for dear life, and what I had mistaken for a red mitten was a red stocking and a pretty, plump, well- filled one, too! Such a yell of laughter as those fellows set up was exceeded only by my consternation and Miss Leeland' s wrath, and as I loosed my deadly grip she scran1bled out of that bank in less than no time. MR. ARNOT: I have been consideringyour apologies and excuses, and since you made such a wretched blunder in obtaining what you say you sought when you made that hurried grab in the dark, you may call a~ound any night and get it. ALICE M. LEELAND. \Or in other words, the mitten,\ said I. \Great Scott!\ groaned Tom as he felt the significance of the last few words which he had overlooked at first, \and I've gone and told you all. Jack,\ he exclaimed, redden- ing under the embarrassing position, \if you ever breathe a word of this, or ever mention it to anybody, you're no friend·of n1ine.\ But the joke was too good to keep, and Tom himself laughs over it now. And to this day he hates the sight of a pair of coast- ing bobs or red mittens. JR. Qualitative student to senior: \ I can find nothing but sodium-chloride in this un- known, but I know there is son1ething else present, for it tastes like salt. \-Argonaut. A banana peel lay on a grocer's floor. How I 1nanaged to get her home that night I can hardly ren1etnber, but I have a distinct recollection of my confused explana- tions and her deafness to all n1y entreaties to consider i~ purely accidental. Since then I haven't had the courage to see her, and the agony I've suffered till I got this letter ought to make me a hero. But it's all right now. See, here's what she says,\ and he tossed the letter over into my lap. \ 0 I'm an old flirt,\ he continued jocosely; \ I'm \What are you doing there?\ asked the scales, peeping over the edge of the counter. \ Oh, I am 1 ying in wait for the grocer.\ \ Pshaw!\ said the scale£. \ I've been doing that for years.\-Polytechnic. a regular old n1asher yet. She can't get along without me. I'm going right down there this evening, and say, let me wear that new tie of yours, will you? Of course I want to look tone when I go down to make up, or she may go back on me yet.\ I glanced over the note, ancl as I compre- hended its meaning, exclaimed rather un- feelingly: \Why you poor thing, you didn't read this right. Just look here.\ Tom leaned over my shoulder and read : The following are the Glee Club's addition to the Chinese song, in the way of original verse: Me go to college, Have a prof. no likee, Give him serenadee, Hide behind a tree. Out con1:es Melican prof., Snagee pigee tailee, Snagee pigee tailee On the bold Chinee. Me go to co liege, Studee no at allee, Playee Melican feet's-ball Allee live-long day. Long cmne Commencement, Chinee vely cheeky, Snagee all samee sheep-skin, Skipee far away. -.Athe-;ueum.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. ~NCE again has the slowly n1ovi ng cloud ~- Of sadness and depressing glo_om come o'er tne, And, I who once so glad and Joyous see·m.ed, J Am bowed with bitter grief and deepest woe. I, who had once a step so light and full of life, Now totter like one bent vvith toil or spent with age. My voice, which once was strong and clear and 1nusical, Has sunk now to a whisper, husky, weak and indis- tinct. The lines upon n1y face, tny eJ'e, n1y e\·ery look, Proclaitn a being weary of this life, resigned to fate. And why, you ask, am I so sad and sick at heart? Have I mv dear love lost or is tny hoard of lucre low ? Or have I, heedless of the consequences, bet my pile On three gay Jacks, while he whom I had hoped to fleece Held four fair Queens? Ah! no; far from it. Such things as these affect me not. But then, you know, A fellow always feels disheartened when he rises late,. Bolts breakfast, runs to chape 1, makes an early recita- tion, And then begins the new \veck with a shameful flunk! The fifty- eighth annual convention and reunion of the 2 rJ? fraternity will take place at the chapter house of the Alpha Chapter on March ·1, 1885. \This is carrying things altogether too far,\ said the soph as be lugged two scuttles of coal from the bath-room away up three ftigh ts of stairs to his room. Lieut. and Mrs. Hubbell, Prof. and Mrs. Perkins, ancl the Misses Perkins, were guests at the Bachelors' ball held in Bleecker's hall, Albany, on Monday evening, the 16th inst. The snow-drifts about college greatly im- pede the weary student, who, returning at nightfall with the usual \load\ of duties, tries to keep in the straight and narrow way. The last hop-on-the-hill was as great a success as the first. There were a few more ladies than gentlen1en,. but everybody seemed to enjoy it. They will be resumed after Lent. T'he students have given two informal re- ceptions this n1onth, one on the 7th and the ~- other on the 13th After Lent it is the in- LOe.FIL. The Freshmen are nearly through Algebra. Sweeney, '88, has left college for a short time. A new bulletin board would be an appre- ciated improvem~nt. The N otman Photographic Company, of Albany, have been chosen cla.;s photog- raphers by the Seniors. Mrs. W. M. Gillespie, widow 9f Prof. W. M. Gillespie, lately died while en route to New York from Europe. The rooms of the Beta Theta Pi Society were quite severely damaged by fire and water on the night of the r 2th. Prof. Wells has the thanks of the Sopho- more class in French for the very interest- ing lecture on the Egyptian war. Drills have been suspended for the. re- mainder of the tern1, and the company expect to begin target practice in a short time. tention of the students to resume thetn again every two weeks. The Sophomores are undecided as to the place for holding their class supper. Ar- rangements had been n1ade to go to Amster- dam, but have been given up, and the time of the supper postponed. Prof. : \ Mr. B., what is the influence of the moon upon the tide?\ Mr. B. : \I do not know exactly what influence it has on the tied, but it has a tendency to make the untied awfully _spooney. \ Well~ I think I'll indulge in a little lig·ht literature,\ said the senior as he took up his Optics. \I'm cold,\ said the junior as he opened the text and prepared to absorb a little Heat. \There is quite a draft here,\ said the soph as he opened his Descriptive. \ I guess I'll have to draw on my imagina- , tion for all of my perspective ten-spots.\ \Well I'll Livy happier life than this next year, or stay Hon1er go to Harvard,\ said the freshman as he cut a leaf out of his pony, pasted it in his Greek book and then went to bed.

THE OONCORDIENSIS. 53 Washington's Birthday vvas celebrated at , for several years. As the land owned by college by a general bolt. If the annouHce- •. Union College, known as Hunter's Point, is ment h8d been made at an ·earlier hour :that : situated there, the taxes on which have been college \duties would be suspended,'' t:he . kept up, the college trustees were averse to day would have been better enjoyed. such a proceeding. Judge Landon prepared an argument setting forth the injustice of the A number of the students are in training · bill, in consequence of which the committee in order to be in readiness for the organiza-; to whom it was referred have reported ad- tion of a col1ege base-baH nine which \Ve :sin- ,, versely upon it. cerel y hope will do credit to the college. It .· is the intention to have no hired players ltbis The Coluln bia College men wait ten min- coming season. The following are the subjects for essays : Seniors-·'Monopolies (define) and their Evils.\ Juniors-'' Benefits and Evils of Opening Art Collections and Public Libra- ries on Sunday.'' Sophomores-\ Quaiit·1es, lYiental and Moral, of the Model Editor.\ Charles W. Vanderveer, director of fhe gymnasium, is giving instruction in athletics to the two sons of Mr. Henry Russell, ofA!- bany. He has fitted up a room in the Rus- sell mansion, where he meets the boys three times a week. It is the most complete ~ri­ vate gymnasium in that city. On Sunday, February I 5, at All Sain.ts' Cathedral, i\lbany, the Rev. David L. Sprague, of the class of '79, was ad van ted to the priesthood. He will continue to offi- ciate at Amsterdan1, N. Y. At the sarn.e .. time and place Edward C. Johnson, of ~the class of '8 I, was ordained to the diaconate. Imn1ediatel y afterward he started for west- ern Oregon, where he will officiate in 1tthe future. \Did he come down in good shape WB en you struck him ?\ asked Brown of Jones, ce- . ferring to a freshman who was reported to have lots of\ rocks.\ \Guess he did,\ said Jones, who was circulating a paper for hase- ball interests. \I struck him for fifty d'oi- lars just now, out in front of the cha?'el, when all of a sudden both feet flew out from under him, and he came down for all he was worth!\ A bill was presented to the Legislature not long- since by the inhabitants of L0ng Island City, who hoped thereby to obtain the po\ver of taxing- all the property of that place to make good a deficit caused by :the non-payment of taxes on certain property . utes £or the Prof. before they think them- . selves entitled to a lawful \ adjourn,\ ac- cording to the Spectator. The Columbia men seem to be somewhat anxious to get their \money's worth.\ After waiting three minutes, here at Bowdoin, the most incredu- lous man will be convinced that the Prof. does not intend to come.- Orient. We ought to be ashamed of it, perhaps, but here at Dickinson if the Prof. isn't in sight half a minute after time, we melt away like the winds.- Dz'ckinsorzian. With us at Union four minutes is considered the proper limit. On the evening of the 24th inst. the last battalion drill took place at the City Armory. The following promotions and appointments of comrnissioned officers were made : First Lieutenant C. A. Marvin Captain, to fill an original vacancy ; Second Lieutenant J. E. Swanker :F'irst Lieutenant, vice Marvin pro- moted ; First Sergeant G. D. Buel Second Lieutenant, vice Swanker promoted. The foregoing officers have sent in their resigna- tions, which have been accepted, their duties ceasing at the last battalion drill. At the same time and place the following promotions and appointments of non-commissioned offi- cers were made : Sergeant H. W. Van Dusen First Sergeant, vice Buel promoted ; Corporal W. T. Bishop Sergeant, vice Van Dusen promoted; Private A. J. Dillingham Corporal, vice Bishop promoted ; W. L. Kennedy, Corporal, to fill original vacancy. We are pleased to learn that the class of eighty-three sent forth some who are be- coming prominent as vindicators of the sanctity of the law. Not long since, as we are informed, a gentlernan of color was ac- cused of illegitimately appropriating certain feathered bipeds of the family the ancestors of which are said to have saved Rome at a critical period in its history. The above-

54 THE CONCORDIENSIS. mentioned gentleman of color was uncul- • ~~ ~§igni:Ficant ~IJtatement. tured. He was also without doubt guilty, as . was in fact proved by his ans(w)ers. No one al!HE writer was recently c011versing ~ith would attempt his defense, in consequence ; cv-r~ a grad nate of Yale, of the class of 44, of which he was obliged to plead his own r distinguished among his friends forschol- cause. The law, however, had called to its i arly candor and the accur·acy of his aid the aforesaid members of the class of knowledge. Speaking of the history of eighty-three. Now was the time to bring· Union, he said that he heard the statement into play their stock of legal lore; to n1ake . a draft upon their stored-up eloquence in · made, in a public address at a meeting of behalf of outraged justice. It was done. educators, that the proportion of the alumni Calling to mind the \Art and Practice of of Union Colleg-e who have been pron1iner t Oratory,\ as practised in their college days in polit-ical life is t·wice that of any ot~er of before \Lamrny such a flood of rhetoric and convincing logic was poured out that the · the· American colleges. He had carefully prisoner was-acquitted. exa.mined the statement in respect to his lommunication. EDITORS CoNCORDIENSIS : Last year there was a movement started whereby one of the three elected to the editorial board from the Junior class should retain his position on the board for the ensuing year. Now, as it seems to me, it would be much better if the choice of this one should be left with the board, as it is desirable to select the one best fitted, which is shown by the work done, and is known to the board much better than to the class. Of course it will rest for the present with the Juniors whether or not this can be done, since the election of editors devolves entirely upon the different classes. While the election of editors is based less upon society feeling perhaps than any other, still if the choice of chief editor for the fol- lowing year were left with the board, the friendly rivalry which would take place be- tween those desiring the position could not fail to further the interests oft he paper. M. --- ------------ Instructor in English literature (to mute Sophomore) : '' Your recitation is a good criticism on the literature of the period. There isn't much to be said about it.\-Ex. \ Professor in psychology : '·' Can we con- ceive of anything as being out of time and still occupying space ?\ Musical student (thoughtfully): \Yes sir, a poor singer in a chorus. ''-Ex. own A bna Jl;fater, and found it to be sub- stantially correct. The fact was cited as an illustration of the influence of one man-Dr. N ott. The gentletnan also said that in 1842 he was a delegate from a Greek letter society to a convention held at Schenectady, and while here he attended two of Dr. N ott's lectures and also a meeting of \The Sen- ate.\ He remembered that Dr. N ott ad- dressed the young men as destined for pub- lic life, and he thought it was his custon1 to hold that idea pron1i nen tl y before them. The conversatiot1 set me to reflecting upon the significant statement, and to wondering if the fact is not to be aGcounted for by two influences instead of one. That Dr. Nott's influence tended that way, I think, cannot be doubted. Dr. N ott believed in the prin- ciple that scholars should tak·e the lead in politics. He felt that he was train.ing men to be statesmen, governorSt,. and judges: Tho11gh himself a clergyman by profession, he was a politician by nature, a,nd had he chosen to be a statesman instead of a college presid€nt he wouJd undoubtedly have been at least the peer of his gr~at friend Mr. Seward. He was not a partis-an, and his friends scar~cly knew whether he was Whig or Democrat ; but he was intimate with men and policies, and his mind ran on national affairs. ·A strong personal influence mag- -

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 55 netized his utterances, which is always the pretentious 1nanner, his unflagging zeal, his _larger part of a good man ~s usefulness. stalwart frie-ndship, he will be missed by the When we come much in contact with a vig- , large circle of friends to whom he was al- ways a congenial, happy and valued co.m- orous mind in a person whon1· we believe in, pan1. on.}. we rapidly and unconsciously acqui·.re the: --------+·------------------------ habit of looking at things in the same light ----~--~--------- ------- ·- as the mind which is dom.inating ours. Dr. · N ott is thus a partial explanation of the fact that so many of the alumni of Union have been prominent in our national affairs. In this light those ancient class-roon1 counsels are significant. Like whispers in the ro- t.unda of the St. Paul Cathedral, they may not h-ave ~~en1ed to reach far at the time, but they are heard again far on in the whis- tithlctic6. Delegates frotn colleges represented in the New York State Inter-collegiate Base Ball association held their annual convention January 30, at the Globe. Promptly at 2 o'clock President G. H. Brown, of Rochester University, called the convention to order, Cornell was represented by F. W. ~Olin and F. M. Towl; Rochester was represented by pering-gallery of the century. The other influence to which I have re- ferred is ''The Union College Senate.\ For fifty years this unique institution has been kept up by the Senior class. The readers of THE CONCORDIENSIS do not need any de- scription of it, but the alumni of Union will bear me out in saying that it has had an itn- portant influence, and who shall say how many whom our country has honored might date their interest in national affairs to the debates of the \ Union College Senate\ ! Then not in our clay shall the epitaph be written on a thing of such historic interest: ''A c r ibus z\n itiis, incurio;g J ji ne. '' G. P. H. // 1()bituarg. r DIED-At Alb\'py ·~. Y., January 29, 188,<;, jAMRS C. BELL, Jr., in the thirty-sixth year of his age. · Mr. Bell graduated at Union in the class of '68( and was thus a student at a time when most of our present. professors and officers began their connection with the college. Fron1 his association with these men he de- veloped a warn1 personal interest in the af- fairs of the college, and to the time of his death was recognized as one of the most en- th usiastt c and disinterestPd workers of our alumni.) He was a loyal n1en1ber of the Psi Upsilon fraternity. lFor his quiet and un- G. H. Brown and W. H. Wilson; Hobart bv E. P. Pierson and B. Franklin; Union by ../ T. J. Delaney and W. T. Foote; Hamilton by C. H. Davison and }'. J. Swift. The first business of the meeting w~s the consideration of an application for member- ship from Syracuse University. After a secret session the application was granted and the delegates, A. M. York and J. G. Cleveland, vvere admitted to the convention. The following amendment was adopted: \Any club playing other than a regular student shall forfeit such game and upon repetition be expelled from the league.\ The Reach ball was adopted. C. A. Davison of Hamilton, was elected president for the ensuing year, T. ]. Delaney of Union, vice president, and F. M. Towl of Cornell. ~ecre­ tary and treasurer. The n1anagen1ent of the different nines forn1ing the executive COn1- mittee will n1eet in April to arrange a sched- ule of gan1es. At the conclusion of the covention a n1eet- ing of the delegates was held and an inter- collegiate athletic association was forn1ed. One field day will be held each year, at which representatives from the different colleges will compete. The first one will be held at Geneva on May 22. E. P. Pierson, of Hobart, was elected presider1t, and S. S. Holman, of Cornell, vice president. The constitution of the Inter-collegiate Athletic Association will be ready for adop- tion by our students soon.-SyracusatJ.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. ~OFT and low there fell on my ear, ~ Melodious strains so enchantingly sweet, 1 Most surely I thought angels bright were so near J TJ:lat soon I would hear the tread of their feet .. ~ Though at first indistinct, from the distance it catne, The concord was perfect in harmony quite, While as it came nearer I fancied a fta1ne Flickered dim through my room with an uncanny light. But hark! what is that which the melody breaks, Makes my hair stand on end while my whole body quakes? It comes thro' the dark like the sound of a drum, Sure 'tis Gabriel's trump-the last day is co1ne. Then all trembling and pale 'Neath the bed-clothes I hide, While the sins of my life Like troops by me glide. But ha! it grows fainter, Yet fainter, at last It has gone, and the Sal- Vation army has passed. '48. Waldron, now a lawyer at Waterford, N.Y., paid u;;; a short visit ... last week. ~5- H.on. Paul Lightner died at his home in Highland county, Va., January 18, r885. rfwo years of his college course were spent at Dickinson College, Pennsylvania, but he was graduated at Union College, New York. He pursued a course of legal studies at the University of Virginia, and afterward prac- ticed law in the State of Illinois till the opening of the war, when he was co1npe1led by impaired health to abandon his profes- sion. He devoted hin1self to agricultural pursuits tifl the autumn of 187r, when he was called to represent Highland and Bath counties in the Legislature of Virginia. Here he served two tern1s, retiring from public life in 1875. (_He was a man of win- ning address, kind disposition and fine in- tellectual qualities. He had hosts of friends and no enemieo/.-1-!ighland Rec(Jrder. \)' 77· Adsit is at present preaching at Charlton, N. Y. \Y~s. Stolbrand is a second lieutenant in the regular arrny and is stationed at Fort Wingate, N. M. ''7~J. Bold is preaching at Ticonderoga, ~- ¥. 1 l8r. Kline is in busines£ in Amsterdam, N~ y. i )BI. McNulty is traveling for a large flour \ . M' 1· M' M 'ed :firm 1n · 1nneapo IS, 1nn. ac was marn on the 25th November, I 884. '83. Be11inger paid his friends at Union a visit last week. . j83. Burton is an editor on the Gloversville ~cal. . '84. Moore took a trip down here from Potsdam a short time ago. '84. l(itts was found roaming around N. S., N. C, on Fehruary 19, and remained a few days on a short visit. '8 S. Mills is sick with a fever. J'8S. 11oulton is teaching school at Oneida, N.Y. ',85. Delaney has been elected vice-pres- i~nt of the Inter-state Collegiate Athletic society. '86. I-Iayes has recovered from his late ill- ness. '86. Hamlin is in business at Winona, Minn. In view of the fact that so very many jokes are gotten off at the expense of the girls at va~sar, an exchange says the college is being laughed to deatb.-AlbaJZy Argus. First College Man-\ Have you heard the awful news about Princeton?\ Second College Man-'' Princeton ! Great Ccesar! Hasn't burned down, has it? \No not exactly; but it has withdrawn from the rowing association.\ \Oh well, that's not so bad. Such a step was absolutely necessary in order to give the students a fair chance, you know.\ \A fair chance?\ \Yes it is simply in1possible for an edu- cational institution to do full justice to row- ing without actually neglecting base-ball.''- Piriladelplzz'a Call.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. ~==~·~··~····====~====~======~========~=============== 57 IJow ~t ~oe6. ~LITTLE bolt ~. To have some fun; . A couple bolts, · J Be leb.;; them run. He bolts a week- Mashed on the rink; Bolts all the while- Begins to drink. Receives his '' notice\ With a lat.Jgh; A letter ho1ne-· The fatted ,calf. ~OME of our .contetnpora:i:s. in their ex- ~ change reviews and cnt1c1sms seem to . ·l ~ose si~ht of :h·e· fact .that a college paper . IS publ1shed In the Interest of the stu-. \' dents of the college which it represents, ' and not for the benefit of the outside world. A story or an article which appears insipid and tame to those _not acquainted with the s urro~1ndings, may be of especial interest to those for whom it is intended. We have dO doubt that much good may be derived from friendly and sensible criticism. Much of the so-called criticisn1 in our college papers seems to be for the purpose of filling space, or, as is frequently done, simply fron1 spite. Worse than these, though, are the \mutual admiration\ societies which at times are formed by two or more papers. ''We are glad to notice that Tlte So-a·ud.So con1pli- ments our literary department, and we are happy to be able to say in return that the editorials of the So-and-So are among the best we receive.\ This, however, is not so much seen as forrnerly. There seems to be a growing tendency among our exchanges, which is to be com- nlended, and that is to give more attention and space to the events of interest at other colleges. The Unt'versity Rev£ezv, published by the students of Kansas University, comes to us for the first time. [ts general make-up is good, while some of its artioles show consid- erable thought. The accident is becoming very much re- duced in size. One of our hoard suggests that its name would be n1ore appropriate if for 0 were substituted A. The Athenaunt and Argo come laden with the usual number of triolets arid rondeaus, but withal quite readable. The Southern Collegian, of Washington and Lee University, speaks as follows in re- gard to the falling off in attendance : \We are inclinecl to doubt the propriety of send- ing professors on the road to 'drum' up stll- dents; the sacrifice of dignity is too great. But it is evident :that an awakening must take place so mew here, or in a year or so we shall. find ourselves a second William and Mary-a college with heavy endowments, a magnifict:nt corps of professors, and one stu- dent. Some action to checkmate the lively young instituti·ons that debase the name of university n1ust be taken, or we shall be driven to the wall.\ Ou.t£1zg for March contains models in out- line of representative sailing canoes. \A Pair of Oars,\' by Sophie Swett, is an inter- esting sketch, while \The New House of the Massachusetts Bicycle Club,\ by S. H. Day, is of special interest to all patrons of the wheel. Son1e one has told us that there are in Cincinnati 24,000 females learning music. This accounts for the general depravity of our population.-Aca:dt 1nica. \I tell you, Bill, no girl can't fool me. If I call on a girl and she don't say tnuch, and acts like she want3 n1e to leave and don't shake hands with ;me when I leave, and don't ask me to call again, it's very seldom I ever call back to see her agai n.-E..:r.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. ~eneral lolle9e Mew\~. l\MHERST.-Henry Ward Beecher lectured recently. - Dr. ] ohn Lord lectured on \George Eliot' and Hon. Wiliian1 Parsons deliver~d an oration on \ Heroes of the Ho- meric Age.''-One of the finest, if not the fi.nest, collection of American birds has been purchased by Mr. E. E. Farnam and pre- sented to the college. PRINCETON.-A qanjo and guitar club has been started in college, and if successful th.ey will ac(:ompany the Glee Club on several oc- casion s.-rfh e curious spectacle of base-ball played outdoors in the middle of winter bas been witnessed this year.-A graduate com- mittee has been appointed by the college to superintend and advise in all athletic n1atters. Y ALE.-Measures have been taken for es- tablishing a co-operative society.-There are six graduates of the college who are n1em- bers of Congress.-'fbe Chess Club has been challenged by the Harvard Chess Club.- The Ncws has recently recorded the se\ enth anniversary of its foundation. It is the old- est college daily.-A Junior recently climbed a rope hand over hand nearly roo feet to ob- tain possession of a banner belonging to the ~--reshn1en. CoLUMBIA. -The College Boat Club, which \Vas very heavily in debt last year, has re- duced its debt so as to be no\v only $400 be- hindhand.-Columbia has graduated 8,500 n1 en. It has an e qd ow n1 en t of $6, 3 5o, ooo- $r,8so,ooo n1ore than Harvard . ...---Columbia ran well boast of the rapidity with which her library has grown. In I g76 it stood forty- fifth in a list of the fifty largest libraries in this country; to-day it stands twentieth and numbers 64,20 5 voltunes. HARVARD.--'fhe Tennis Associ1tion in- tends to have forty courts made on Holtnes and Jarvis f--ields ; the entire cost of which will be about $4,000.--rfhe petition for volun- tary at ten dance on n1orning prayers to stu- dents over zr years of age has been handed to the authorities. 1~he faculty is said to be in favor of the proposition. -Dr. Sargent has just published a sn1all hand·-book entitled (' In Case of Accident.\ The Daily CriJnson is run by a board of twenty-one editors.-There are fourteen graduates of the college who are in Congress.-The board of editors of both the La1npaon and the Advocate have an- nounced that unless more subscriptions for the remainder of the year are received, the papers wil~l have to cease publication. The co-operative society continues to thrive. The president of the society, one of the professors, has offered to make good any deficiency that may exist at the end of the year. GENERAL.-At a meeting of the Nineteenth Century Club of New York, February 24th, the relative merits of elective and curriculum systems, as in vogue at Harvard and Prince~ ton,- were discussed by Presidents Eliot and McCosh. Prcside·nt Eliot said, among other things, .'' There are three things necessary to make a perfect university. The first of these is a guarantee to the student of a freedom of choice of study. 1~he second is an opportu- nity to the student to win disti net ion in a special study, and the third is a discipliue that will enable a student to govern himself.\ Dr. McCosh's answer showed that he has a true knowledge of the inside workings of college life. ''Those in college know,\ said .he., \how skillful students are in choosing subjects of study which will not overburden them.\ Boarder-\ Mrs. Jones, I can't eat such stuff as this on n1y bread any longer.\ I.,andladv, confusedly-\ But-er-\ Boarder~-'' No, no; its oleomargarine' that's what's the matter.-Acta ColuJnb£aita· BACK NUMBERS -OF- THE CONCORDIENSIS MAY BE HAD OF THE

