·r UNION COLLEGE '· LIBRARY '. , ... ,. ' / ., '·:'

·\\ ' , .. ·.·.' ·--· '~;.} ' ,. ' ·· ... ' . ·'. ' _ ... ' ,. I< ; ' I-. (~~;, . uG) ·~· -· .. \ ~~· -/h..__ -----¢-.::>•---::-.· • · . · ··• ·-a f-o· .- · _ . _ · :-c ...... ~·· (.hn .... . . ~ OCTOBER, ~889 . *TH··~- SCHENECTADY, N. Y. LITERARY- 'J'he Chancellor's Address-Chas. Emory Where the Faculty Were, - The Eowling Alley, Smith, '61, ,. :Blatchford Oration--- Frank F. Blessing., '89 lNTER-COLLEGIATE NEws, EDITORIAL, CoLLEGE NEws-- Class Elections, The New Class, 3 LOCALS, II PERSONALS, 12 NECROLOGY, 13 NOTES, POETRY- I 4 Postponed, 14 Ye Constant Lover, Nurvher l. I ~ .e.., - , rs IS r6 r6

,, ' · .. :f,;_, ·. ' .... ,• . ~·· .. ·' I ' ·~· ' '')i .-1\\- '.\!f. ' ~ . ' -·.-~ ' (. ' . • ~ ! . - ' . ( . '\\':--' . ; . \t' ' .• ' .. ,· \'T'.' ' I '. ', ''' -. \ ' ' ~ ,' . ; . ; : .... ' -·.,·· ,.. .. '[ ~ : ' ' .\ ~t-<~ ,' . :· '' • . _,.;. :... - : . I. . . . . . ' ~ :: I• ' ) . . ' ~·. .·· ·.· .... ,. .. .. ·~ . . • . ' /' .. ··. ~ ~ . . . ,~1 \ ..... · . . 1', '• .... ·. ,.· ·.•. \'_ U .. N· ; r····-o_ .. ·· ·N- .. ·u:, __ ·N··- .. _ .. I··-r·v: ---.E:-._.-_ •. ----·.-R·S -·--_.:_·r·•··T·•·-.-._--·y··-.-.,_ .•. _ .. __ ' . ' . ' '' ':, ,· ~· ·. • . ; ·. . • ·. . ' ' , ; I: . . , • . ,. , , i , ,, • : '\ ' .. , \' , ·. : '. - ' : ' ' , : , ' ' \ '· . ' . . '- . . . : ... :·.. . ·,-· .. . . . . \ . ·' ' ~ : ..... . .. HARRiSON E. WE\8s~.m~ LL, . .-DiJ- P'rq$/dent UNIO·N C.O··LLE(i:E-,. SCJ~lE.NJ!,Cli,\.O:Y, :N~ .Y .. .... - •' -. '• I ,.r •' ..... ,·. ·. ·.'. .. ·/' ''. ... .... '*\ .. '· ·.··:·· . .... ·,· -~··· ·. -~· . ' ... --~ ,' . ., ... ' .. •\ .1, CtASSIOAL CotrBs:E...,...;Th~ Classical Course is .tbe ti.sual :bacq~lauretl;te COUl'S~ 0( A.dll).erican C()liegeS. Students l1l~kY'- beper,r;Ufttecl \ ·. - . ' . ·. to pursue additional studie~ in'eit-ller of the. other c:ourses.. · 2. ·S'OIENTn,ro Cou~s:E--In.·tbe Scientific Ceurse the mod:ern.latrgli.ages aile s\Qfustttr~ted for the ancient~ aa4tb.e Bitnount of ip,ath~~· matical and English studies is ill.oreased.. . .. ,, ._ •• f> .. • .:-.., . ~{ ' 3. So:aooL. oF CiviL ENG>IN\Elll&ING-T:be stuQ:en.:t in this departmailt euj'oy.s a.tt'-l~:~ttta.ges nowh..ere .sur:Pas$~.d. i.n the c.ourse o~ · instruction,, in its collection ·Of me>d 1 els, i,nstrnments .and book$, tne· acc.U:mula.tiQ1ii of :ril$l.y years b:jthel8ite 'Pr(fJessor (i.iUespi~, a;nd ~lso in unusual facilities~ for acq-uiliihg a practical knowledge oJ i11st~menta:I fiel<l w.~~:k. · · · · . . · 4.. Elttt.EoT~d Ootr~sE~Au EclectiC Co1trse,. consisting of studies S'e~eeted l:tt .:pleasure:El!o~ the proeaE).ding oo.urs,es, ·mar be taken. ·~~ · . . .... ~ny one whQ, Upon examillatibn~.is found ·qualified to pursue it. On tlie co:tnpletie:tl.o:f this• a cerlii1icate 0.f attai;:amenfWfll. he~giv~tt. · · · · ·· There ar~ also special courses :in.. Analytical chem.istry ,. :1\tetallul'g¥ and Natural l{istor:y,. · liiot~ eatalog·t'le$ •or for speciail inforiD.atiQ~ ~ddress - .. D . E·-'. ·p··· A·. 'RTM· ·,E·N··. T. · -ou M. · ·E· DI'c·· I'J.T:&\ . ; '· \ . . . '. '~ . '·. ·.. . ' . ' ' '-*1 - ' . ' ' ·. ·.. ·. \\'~ ll!:J. : • -. '. . . . - AtBANY MEDIOAL OoLLEGE~'I'erm. commences. first Tuesday in $ep'te.mber and cQnti.ntae$: twenty· weeks~ The Plan e>f instru:ctiQf!l. · combines clinical teaching Witn lectures. Special oppor~J}nities for t'h.~ ~tudy of 'Ch~nislitY and Qf PraQtic~ AnatomY~ · · · · - '\-... ExPENSEs-Matriculation. fee,. ~5; te11m fee,. $100; perpetual ticket, $50; g~adu.ation ;:fee, $25l disse~ting tee, $5; fee for l~bo~t()ry course, $10;, histological course\ $18. For circulars address · Wll,ttS: <*• 'T'UdQ::S~· ~L~ ~·f Regist~a~\ Alllall¥\· N~ T .. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. THE ALBANY l.JA w SoliQOL-'l'be course· .of in~truct~on consists. of three tertns; the 1irst ·commencing September 5, t:ti,e second November 28,, ·and the third ME!ireh 6; eacfit~rf& c~sisfing·:ot-~~ lf~~k~. ! 'llt~ ~i~~§es:for the/study of law ap. Albany are. as gr~~t as can be found anywhere. Tba.law· li!>J.ltJ.'Jt';.<i.~ .~t!t\e,!'· 'bp~~~~~ stuWs;. .\h~ ~l~Ffl. ':Cetm1f of the Supr~me Court of the T]lil!~. - Depal'tment, am;l all the terms of tne Court of Appeals. · ·· · . Tuition, $50 each term, in advance; $130eaeh ye~r~ il\,~QV$ee;• .F~~forQJ.attc)n add]less · · · · _ · . . · . '.: •.: :·. · •, :. • ... !, :· ·: Prof. EORAOE-lll. SMITH,. LL.D., Albany;. N.Y.· . . ... . . . . . ·~ ·•· •· . ~• • . ·' ~ ·•· •· 11 e •· • e1 • • • •· ..... DUDLEY OBSERVATORY • . This D~pa~tment of the tttltve~sity is located at Albany, and is de-voted especi~:~.ll]! t~ AStronomy and Meteorology. :For mfor-.. mation address .· Prof, LEWIS BOSS, ..Albany, N. Y .. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARl\:t~CY. - . . . - . . A~IJ4.Nl', N. Y.-For tnform.ati()n apply to Prof. WlLLIS G. TUCKElR, M. D~ ' . . ~ .. ' - .·.' ,· __ ··,;, :, ' \ ,\ ~- . .,-, ' ~~ ·. . ·:- . ...... <' . · ..... . '· ;:, . ' . ~ . l t .. \ ...... 1·' ···t-·' ' -· c. - Je 34 - 1 8 I ' TH - 1 2Ij \ at r Fan Ron attd Lob~ Pat. 1

\ \ . ~ _, . :'~ , ~ I / UNION UNIVERSITY HARRISON E.. WEBSTER, LL.D., President UNION COLLE-~E, S-CH.ENECTADY, N. Y. 1. CLA:ss:to.A.L COU.R.SE-The Cla$sical Course is the usual baccalaureate course of Arp.erican colleges. Students may be permitted to pursue additional stndies in either of the other courses. 2. SoiENTIFIO CouRsE-In the Scientific Course the modern languages are substituted for the ancient,. and the amount of math.e· matioal and English st\ndies is increased. 3. SoHooL oF CrviL ENGINEERING~The student in this department enjoys adv:antages nowhere surpassed:. in the course of instruction, in its collection of models, instruments and books, the accumulation of many years l:)y the late. Professor Gi1lespie, and also in unusual facilities for acquiring a practical knowledge of instrumental field work. 4. EoLEOTro CouRsE---An Eclectic Course, consisting of studies .selected at pleasure from the preeeding courses, may be taken ~I any one who,. upon examination, is found qualified to pursue it. On. the completion ·Of this a certificate of attainment will b.e ,given. There ar~ also .special courses in Analyticlitl Chemistry, Metallurgy and Natural History. For catalogues .or for special information address HENRY WHI'l':EHOaNE, Dean of the. Faculty, Scbeneota;dY', ~. y, DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. - AL:n.A.NY MEDICAL CoLLEGE-Term commences :first Tuesday in September and continues twenty· weeks. The plan of instru.ction. .. combines. clinical teaching with lectures. Special opportunities for the study of Chemistry and of Practical Anatomy~ '··- ExPENSEs-Matriculation fee, $5; term fee, $100; perpetual ticket, $50; graduation fee, $2$; disseQting fee, $5; fee fot: laboratory course, $10; histological course, $18. F()r circulars address WILLIS G. TUOKEB~ M. D~, Registrar;. Albany, N. Y; DEPARTMENT OF LAW. THE ALBANY LAw SoaooL~The course of instruction consists of three terms; the first commencing September 5, the second November 28, and the third March 6; each!tEJrrll coosisiing :OJ'~ W~¥ks. : 'fhl} MitW.pl~es:for the study of law at Albany are as great as can be found anywhere. The law lib~.J.'t W: t.iie State' \)n~n, t~ stu<i\nl!.:. tbe {leh~r~ Terms of the Supreme Court of the Third eel\ e • ~ • • • • • •· •• e • • \'• • • ., e\ Department, and all the terms of the Court ·Of Appeais. Tuition, $50 each term, in advance; $130 each yea.r, in,.~ftl.vance .... .Fs>J.\.i~for1Jlation address •\ • ·•• •• , • • P f HORACEE S\'lrt: •• • •• • • • •• •·•• • • ro • · · . J.Ju:TH, LL.D., Albany, N. Y. • '0 • •.• • • • • • • • ·• I .e e e I 8 ·O.f; e 0 e e e DUDLEY OBSERVATORY. This Department of tbe university is located at Albany, and is devoted especially to Astronomy and Meteorology, For infor~ mation address Prof. LEWIS BOSS, Albany, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. ALBA.liY, N. Y.-For information apply to Prof. WILLIS G. TUCKER, H. D. • J • 8 T - , I I .J 21 at Fa Ro an Lo Pt.

.AlJVERTlSEMENTS. DE LONG'S Ladies' and Gentlemen's Dlning Rooms, I02, I04 and Io6 Wall Stnet, Catering for Balls, Parties, Banquets, &c. S ... E. MILLER, JR., • MEN'S o·uTFlTTER, Neckwear, Underwear, Hoslery, Gloves, ~c. Jerseys, Tennis Shirts, Fancy Flannel Shirts, Tennis Suits, and Bicycle Goods. FINE SHIRTS TO ORDER. 34 and 36 MAIDEN LANE, ALBANY. ARNOLD'S BILUARD PARLORS. Finest 'in the C £ty. 8 & IO s. PEARL STREET' Opp. Globe Hotel, ALBANY, N. Y. PHOTOGRAPHS THAT ARE PHOTOGRAPHS, COME TO T.A..X..EJC>T':J 505 STATE STREET. KLEEMANN, ' CATERER & CONFECTIONE,R, 2I5 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Weddings, Parties and Festivals furnished on short notice and at reasonable prices. :!MtAD::EI r:I:'O OE:CE :e. Fancy Ices, Creane 1 ',le~lies, Charlotte de Russe, N(!apolitan Creams, Romq.tt Punclt, Btscut't Glace, Plttm Pudd·btg Glace, Tutti FrutH attd Fattcy Orattge attd Nougat Pyramz\ds l11. all styles, Cht\cke1t and Loblter Salads, Bo1zed T1trkey, Capon and La1~ded Game, Oyster Pattles, etc., etc. TABLE SETTIIIG, FRATERNITY DINNERS AND SUPPERS A SPECIALTY. ''Moral: Insure £n tke 1'1fA VELERS.\ H . F. SMITH'S ---NEW--- ONE- PRICE Clothing and Men's Furnishing Goods House, .JII STAT.E STREET, Cor. WALL, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Fine Tailor-Made Clothing Equal to Custotn Work. Headquarters for Boys' and Children's Clothi.ng. Prices Lower than the Lowest •.

AD VERT1SEMENTS. DE LONG'S Ladi:es' and G:e:nUem·en's :ninin:g Hooms, I02, I04 and Io6 Wall Street. Catering for Balls, Parties, Banquets, &c. s • E. MILLER, JR., MEN'S OUTFITTER, Neckwear, Underwear, Hosiery, Gloves, &c. Jerseys, Tennis Shirts, Fancy Flannel Shirts, Tennis Suits, and Bicycle Goods. FINE SHIRTS TO OHDER. 34 and 36 MAIDEN LANE, ALBANY. ARNOLD'S BILLIARD PARLORS. Finest in the City. 8 & IO s. PEARL STREET, Ofp. Globe Hotel, ALBANY, N. Y. PHOTOGRAPHS THAT ARE PHOTOGRAPHS, COME TO T .A.:LEJOT' ' 505 STATE STREET. KLEEMANN, ' · CATEREH & CONFEGTlONER, 2I5 STATE STREET, SCI£ENECTAD Y, N. Y. '(iMoral: Insure -in the JI?A VELERS.\ H F. SMITH'S ·• ---NEW--- ONE- PRICE Clothing and Men's Furnishing Goods House, 3II STATE STREET, Co-r. WALL, Weddings, Parties and Festivals furnished on short notice and SCHENECTADY, N. Y. at reasonable prices. lMt.A:::CE '::t:'O O:::e:C:E:: ~- Fancy Ices, Dream, 'Yelli'es, Charlotte de Russe, NeafoHiatt Creams, Fine Tailor-Made Clothing Equal to Custom Work. Ronza1t Ptt?tclt, Biscuit Glace, Plum Pudding Glace, Tuttt: Frutti and Fa?tcy Ora1tge a1zd Nougat Pyramids l1t all styles, Clticke1t a1zd Lobster Salads, Bo11-ed Turkey, Capon and Larded Game Oyster Headquarters for Boys' and Children's Clothing. Patties, etc., etc. ' TABLE SETTING, FRATERN.ITY DINNERS AN.D SUPPERS A SPECIALTY. Prices Lower than the Lowest.

• AD:VERTISEMENTS. • • • COLLEGE BOOKS, • • • .IJ1~awing Papers, Pe1zcils and Instruments. All grades of Station- ery. Orders for special books not in stock filled pr:o11ljlly at tke lowest prices. HULBERT, · 235 Sta·te St., .(below the can~ bridge,) SCHENECTADY, N. Y . R OBERT T. MOIR, (Successor to John Gilmour,) BE:A.LER IN . : H·· ENRY A. KERSTE, Ph. G., ~ ! <®\· tP~armacist. @5\ 333 State and I.50 Centre Street, A. FINE LINE OF SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Imported and Domestic Cigars and Cigarettes. UNION STREET PHARMACY, Agency for Anchor, Inman and Hamburg-American Trans-Atlan- tic Steamship Lines. STA~FORD BLOCK. ,i Cor. Union and Yates Sts .. , SCHENECTADY, N. Y. RESTAURANT IN THE Y. M. C. A. BUILDING, now under the direction of the Association. especially reserved for Ladies .. Open from 7 A. M. to IO P. M. Rooms GLOBE HOTEL, J. A. HoucK, Proprietor. · ·Cor. State and Pearl Sts.,. ALBANY, N. Y. Terms: $2.00 per day. Ice Cream in season. Reg-ular Dinner, 25c. Pleasant ' Rooms. Prices Moderate. BOSTON I BARHYTE & BIRCH, 1 • WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN ONE-PRICE GtOTHING HOUSE, COAL AND WOOD, 320 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. ·; .. A fine line of Ready-Made Clothing and Gents' Fur- '. nish.ing Goods. Lbne, Cement, Plaster, Haz'r, Flour, Feed, -Grain, Baled Hay and Straw, and Fertilizers, FINE CUSTOM WORK A SPECIALTY. ·· 306, 308 and 310 UNION STREET, I SCHENECTADy N. y · 209 and 211 DocK STREET, I , · · GO TO J H. DEVINE, L . .T. CLUTE'S, 227 State Street, I • Sole Agent for Stacy, Adams & Co. POR THE CORBEOT STYLES IN ·• Gentlemen's Finest Foot-Wear ~==========RATS.==========~: Also a full line of '.Tntnks, Bags, Gloves, Umbrel- las, &c., ere. Agent for DuNLAP CELEBRATED HAT. Elegant Walking Shoes, and Evening Full Dress Shoes. Sole agent for Edwin C. Burt, Ladies' Fine Foot-Wear. •• DEVINE, cor. State & N. Pearl Sts., ALBANY, N. Y. Mail orde?'S promptly attended to. < • '·.

J ,I '''i\\ •. ,, , •. ,.. .... • ., .... ~.c. ................ · ~ ..... ,. . ....... (' •t,, \ ........ ''''O.Noo<~ ::::;:~~O~t:i::;;·••Oo>l< ''·~ ....... )· .•.. ··' ·· i l r · / 1, _}. )\\''(' ···~/ '• l c, ~ ··~.. . .......... , ........... :~'!.. ........ : ..... , ,, ·~ llt,.,,,,/' .,,.,,,.,~ .......... ,1 ........................ 1 ,, .......... ,. , .. . ftL '•· ,;f··· .... ,,,,,., .. ,,•Y.··'f~ ........ . f .. , ...... t, .. J,, ,' .. Jt' ........... .. ll. '1 .... , .... , f r \· .... _.1 ,,,,, ....... ,.,, ..... ( .... ~· ............ . ,, . I .. '~, .. , I\ . .. , ....... ; .. • ... ---·f,;;;j . \ \ ....... ...... .) \. ........ ..1 ····--'' ''··~ .... ·' ( ,; ·~ ' ''l•!t.,,-:.··'' ,,,.,.,)·- .... ..! ........ ,,.· ............ it.:::J\\\\

HE~ ONCORDIENSIS VoL. XIII UNION COLLEGE, OCTOBER; 188~ No. I THE. CliANCELLOR'S ADDRESS. ''Our. Tbnes Not Degenerate.'' BY CIIAS. EMORY SMITH, '61. We publishbelowthe addressgivenlast commencement by the· h<>norary chancell<>r of the University, believing it to he a .· production that sh()uld be possessed and studied by every young · man of thi:nking. :m..ind. Mr. .President and Gentlemen of the . .Board of Trustees.· When\ Old Union\ •· calls, e-very loyal son answers. For years • it was my pteasure to tread yonder storied walks and halls as a student. Later it was my privilege, each succeeding June, to re- turn to these annual reunions as a devoted alumnus. Stili later, with the singular and :surprising failure to appreciate the kind provision made· ·for their management · whichsomet1mesmisleads the independent . American voters, in national as well as in eo liege politics, the alumni ''smashed a . slate \ whicp contained far better names, and accorded me the high opportunity of trying to sexve our Alma Mater in the · board of trustees. And now your invi- . ta tion to act as the honorary chancellor of . the year eomes with the force of a sum- . rnons which cannot be disregarded and. wi,th the quality of an honor which is . deeply prized. I beg you, Mr. President, • and your associates to receive my sincere thanks for this distinction, and to accept · tlle assurance of my continued interest in · the venerable and honored institution whose diploma I bear and over which you preside. Whateve:e its later vicissitudes, '' Old Union \ has had a noble career of which every son may well be proud. The illus- tl'ious presid€nt who moulded her policy and so long guided her destinies ranks aruong the few imruortal and tutelar divinities not me1'ely of American educa- tion but of American manhood in its broades:t and highest sense. Her faculty has from time to time embraced the foremost names in American scholarship. Her long roll of graduates i.s studded with many stars of the first magnitude which glisten like jewe}s in the diadem of her glory and in the coronet of the nation's renown- stars of unsurpassed splendor in the realms of law and literature, of philosophy and statesmanship. For more than half a century .an influence radiated from this focus which, in its practical force in the wide domain of .affairs, found no other center that could match it. Union had the just fame of being pre-eminent h1 making successful men in all the various walks of life-men who were self-reliant forceful, sagacious and capable of leader- ship and who carried away not only the lessons of the classics and the sciences, but the higher inspirations of honor, manhood and worthy ambition. It is the aspiration of every son of Union. that under your guidance, Mr. President, she may preserve the traditions and witness the glories of the elder day. Young gentlemen of the class of 1889, you are about to ]eave these familiar scenes and step out upon the broad stage of independent action. You take the train- ing and equipment of a faithful Alma Mater; you take the high hopes and growing ardor of courageous young manhood ; and you go forth to do your part in a republic and inanagewhichgive you unbounded opportunities and to which you owe corresponding duties. It is your good fortune to begin your career in the golden age of our history. I know we

4 THE CONCORDIENSIB~ have been told that we live in degenerate times. I know that dark contrasts have 'been drawn between the lofty patriotism · and public spirit of the earlier epoch and the assumed profligacy and deinoralizatior+ of ou:r own period. But I do not sym- · pathize with the wail of the pessimist, and do not accept the unfavorablB comparison of the present with the past. And, young gentlemen, as you are just going forth to take your place in the life and the activities of this period, perhaps I can- not do better in the time allotted me than · to ask the question, ''.Are. we worse than our fathers f' and to maintain the theme, ''Our Times not Degenerate.\ ''We have just passed through the centennial epoch. For fourteen years we have been celebrating the glorious events from Lexington to the Washington inaugural, which established our inde- pendence and made us a nation. It. has . been an epoch of patriotic fervor and glowing panegyric, and no eulogium upon the transcendent importance of those events in the political progress of mankiJ.-~d, or upon the majestic grandeur of the great actors, can exceed the truth. The spirit which exalts the heroic age of the Republic and holds it up for our example and admiration is altogether right; but when it elevates the sires by decrying the sons, and when it glorifies the past by bewailing the present, it is time for a protest. If you tell me of the lofty virtues and illus- trious deeds of the early days, I answer, '' Yes, but look around and you will find their match in our own times.\ If you tell tne of .,the wrongs and evils and abuses of the present, I answer, \Yes but search the records and you find them blendfi_d even with revolutionary glories.\ You shall not exceed me in reverent homage for the great ones gone fore-ver and e-ver by, and let me summon you in turn not to . believe that the age in which you. live is worse than those thai have gone before. We often hear it said that ours is a selfish and speculative era ana that under the influence of its spirit of greed public virtue has decayed. But thjs is no new l ·t \W.'h . ·:~; \ t comp a1n. . ·. ere IS Vlt\:!iUe wro · e Henry.Laurens, president of the continen- tal congress, to Washingto11 in 1778, two years after the Declaration or Independ- ence, and in the very midst of the Revolu. .. tion; ''where is patriotism now, when almost every man has turned his thoughts and attention to gain and pleasures, practicing every artifice of change-alley or Jonathan's \-Jonathan's bejog. the name of a great resort . of speculators. The Revolution had its shadows as well as its splendors. The glories of Mo1lillouth and Saratoga shot athwart a sky of darkness. The Continentals in 1776 bore no such proportion to the :fighting population as the Boys in Blue in 1861.. The heroism of Trenton and the patient fortitude of Valley Forge sent their thrilling appeal to wrangling states that jarred and clashed even in their common revolt against the British yoke. The vital need of the revolutionary con- test was the union of the colonies under the Artjcles of Confederation~ Most of the colonies neglected to obey the requisitions of congress, and New Jersey absolutely refused. Yet year by year went by with- out the ratification of the ()nly bond of union. This delay encouTaged Lord North to assure parliament of the ulti- mate triumph of the British government. It excited distrust and uneasiness -in our Frenclt ally, and unquestionably prolonged the war. And what was the cause of this lamentable delay and disco1'd~ Chiefly the jealousy· of the colonies and their conflict over a division of the western lands-a conflict for territorial aggran .. ..dizement which almost paralyzed their ·S s t c I s s s r s t: e 0 e t: t: t: a v n . 11 t1 g· fl ir . II t< tt u: p~ a1 w p: fi: le rE h~

THE CONCORDIENSIS~ 5 struggle for independence. It created. such feeling that the final ratification of. the Articles of Oonfederatio11 did not · come till six years after the Declaration of. Independence, and 'the decline of public · spirit was so great that Washington ' said, \ independence, respectability, con- · sequence in Europe and greatness as a : nation depended on a ehange.\ The convention which framed the Con- · stitution was the grandest assemblage in : the whole history of the world. It . embodied more political wisdom and more: of lofty inspiration than was ever gath- •. ered in any other hall, and it struck out ' the greatest and noblest work of construc- tive statesmanship in all the annals of ·, time. Yet this pre-eminent body of ; almost divine vision was not without its · weakness. Luther Martin, one of its · members, said that for near a fortnight ' ' we were on the verge of dissolution, · scarce held together by the strength of a hair.\ And even Washington wrote to Hamilton that he almost despaired of a favorable issue and r~pented of having had any part in the work, and, though he was its president, ·he left the convention from June until August~ When finally immortal success crowned its labors and the new government was gloriously inau- gurated, party spirit flamed out with a fury which we have never seen equalled in our day. For a time the overshadow- ing greatness and authority of Washing- ton held it in. check:, but during his second term even his supreme influence was unable to quench the fires of party passion and with all the reverence for his august character; Washington himself was more violently denounced than any party chieftain of our time. Since the final triumph of the colonies under his leadership in 1783 his birthday had been regularly celebrated; but in 1795, while he was still president, the house of repre- sentatives refused to join in the observ- ance and put a deliberate affront upon the Father of his country. We are accusto1ned to the charge of corruption and fraud, and apt to think it belongs only to our own epoch. But it was as common in the first days of the republic as now. In the presidential elec- tion of 1 'r96 for Washington's successor, grave accusations of fraud were made, and the crimes against the ballot-box, which were established then, would be startling now in any state where there is a pretense of fair elections. We have heard a great outcry upon the unfounded allegation that men have been called to the cabinet sim- ply as a reward for their services in improper methods of obtaining votes for a presidential candidate. The charge in its present application is false, but what of the past~ In the presidential contest of 1800 there was a tie in the electoral vote between Thomas Jefferson and Aaron Burr. This threw the election into the house of representatives. The vote of New York was vital; Burr belonged to that state, and how was Jefferso11 to meet him on his own ground? The men1bers for New York who would cast the vote of the state were under the dominating influ- ence of Edward Livingston. ~Jefferson could not approach that eminent man, but while the issue was still undecided he wrote to his brother, Robert Livingston, and asked if he would accept a place in the cabinet? Has history ever found any explanation of this curiously timed inquiry except as a method of reaching the unde- termined vote? Nor is this all of interest and sugges- tion in that memorable contest of 1800. Though beaten in the presidential strug- gle tqe decaying federal party still con- trolled the house of representatives, and thus had the power to choose between Jefferson and Burr. Burr had been the

rrHE OONCORDIENSIS. candidate of his own party only for -vice- pronounced nearly a century ago by the president, and· until the tie nobody had masterful president of this college, which dreamed of him for president. But in .still ranks among the most stately manu- brazen defiance of the plain popular will, ments of comn1emorative eloquence. But the angry and embittered federalists came Hamilton, with all his matchless powers very near revenging thernselves for their and all his elevated patriotism, was. human defeat by electing the adroit, c:rafty, as are the statesmen of to-day. No unprincipled conspirator 1vho afterward exceptional code of political virtue ruled engaged in sedition, and became the mur- even what we rightly call the heroic age derer of the great statesman to whom his · of the :republic. There were north and defeat was chiefly due; and they only south then as now, with their diverse changed their :purpose at last :partly interests and passions and ambitions. because they made better terms fo:r Jef- Hamilton, as an element of his great fiscal ferson, and partly because Alex::tnder policy, insisted that the nation should Han~ilton-to his undying honor be it assume the state debts. He. was right said-used his paramount influence for . because the states had incurred. their his ancient rival and relentless antagonist. ·• debts in ereating the nation. The north: Yet Hamilton himself was not without. · favored his policy and the south opposed fault. The electors of New York were • it. They differed, too, upon the location then chosen by the legislature. ·The old •. of the new national capitaL The north legislature V\ras federalist, the new legis- · wanted it on the Susquehanna and the lature republican.. When Hamilton :found south on the Potomac. How settle these his party beaten, he appealed to Gov.. conflicts except by the modern tnethod of John Jay to convene the expiring legisla- · give and take ?-the north winning the ture in extra session in order that it : debt policy ~nd the south winning the cap- Inight change the electoral law and arro- .· ital; a bargain in which Jefferson joined gate the power of naming the electors, Hamilton, and which was as much a mat- thus usurping the right [awfully b€long- ter of parliamentary legerdemain as any ing to the new legislature chosen by the legislative log-rolling on a river and bar- people for that express purpose-a pro- bor bill of our day! posal more audacious and revolutionary · The patriotic Robert Morris, though he than any act of any returning board of • sacrificed his whole private fortune for our time-a proposal which Jay, of whom his country, was permitted to languish Webster said ''when the spotless ermine during his later years in a debtors' prison. of the judicial robe fell on John Jay it Edmund Randolph, of whom Jefferson touched nothing not as spotless as itself,\ said that \ it was his habit to give his rightly declined to enteTtain. opinions to his friends and his votes to I would not pluck a single leaf from the his enemies,\ was driven· out of Wash-- bright garland of Hamilton's unrivaled ing-ton's cabinet on charges of public and fame. No man can surpass me in admi- personal disho11oT, though it is due to his ration of that consummate ·prodigy of memory to add that the recent researches American history. I believe with ,Qhief of Conway have done much to clear his Justice Marshall that ''Hamilton w~s the fa1ne. Timothy Pickering and Oliver. greatest man this country has ever seen, Wolcott, the secretaries of state and of always excepting Washington.\ Iaccept the treasury, were accused of burning · the full measure of the splendid eulogy the public rec-ords in order to hide wrong~ - ] ( , l ( . 1 l ~ c;: 1 .~ ] I l . 1 I t ., ( ( l ] 2 t c t q t t l] f p t: 0 u t: t~ v . 11 J VI VI

- THE CONOORDIENSIS. doing. A little later the great Calhoun of place-hunters was so great that the greeted the administratio11 of J oh11 Quincy . fences of the White House went down Adams at its -very beginning with the before it. · declaration that it must be beaten at all Nor is the change limited to the po- hazards, no matter what its measures--a litical field. There is a dramatic and declaration of wanton. partisanship that thrilling lesson still fresh before us. would bring a storm of condemnation In 1784: a great flood swept the teeming upon any man ·rash enough to malre it in · valley of the Susquehanna, carrying our time. The present administration. death, havoc and destruction on its invites an American Congress and the tumultuous bosom. Untold anguish, sufM whole country applauds; but when the fering and starvation followed. The leg- administration of Adams triumphed after islature was urged to send relief to the the tumultuous debate on the somewhat hapless sufferers 5 but they wer~ Yankees similar Panama Congress, Martin Van · from Connecticut and it was stolidly deaf Buren, then a senator and afterward to their piteous cries. Nay, more, it seized president, ~aid: ''Yes, they have beaten the opportunity to proscribe them as tres- us by a few votes after a hard battle, but passers, and, with a barbarity that is if they had only -taken the other side and · almost beyond belief, the horrors of a refused the mission we should have had military scourge were added to the blight them.\ In other words, the opposition of a nature's calamity, and many escaped. ·was as rea<J.y to take the one side as the the terrors. of the flood only to perish by other, without regard to the right of the more cruel sword, or to become the question, and only opposed the mission victims of the not more savage wolves of because the ad1ninistration favored it ! the forest to which th-ey were driven. Men may sometimes follow sucl1 a code of · Less than a month ago, within the same action now, but. who would dare affront state, not far from the same scene, a sim- the intelligent judg1nent of this age by ilar cataclysm overwhelmed the busy val- openly avowing it. ley of the Conemaugh. The nation stood We deplore the violence of faction and aghast at the greatest single c.atastrophe the rancor of discussion which too fre- which had ever fallen on the English- quently prevail; but though it is true that speaking race, but the mute appeal came the waves of _party passion, as we see not in vain. Instantly the heart of the them, often run high, they are the gentle- people was everywhere opened; the flood ness of the ze-phyr compared with the of sympathy was greater than the flood of furious storms of political contention and devastation; the trains of relief were set personal detraction which lashed the in n1otion from our farthest bounds; the troublous sea of the first fifty years of offerings came pouring in from the banker our national existence. We lament the at his desk, the workn1an in his shop and unseemly scramble for place; but though the childre11 in the street; and the bounte- there is much to learn from our early his- ous streams of a 11ation's loving kindness tory, it is still true that John Adams ·. gave even the black cloud of disaster its went on with his midnight appointments silver lining in the shining revelation of in the expiring hours of his term until . the great, true heart of the people. In its Jefferson's representative, standing vvith light we may realize the truth of Sydney watch in hand called a halt; and that · Smith's declaration that '' hu1nanity is a with the advent of Jackson the flood-tide modern invention.\

8 THE CONCORDIENSIS. I fear that in my reflections on the past you may begin to think I started with the wro11g question, and that · instead of answering the inquiry, \Are we worse than our fathers~\ I am ·transposing it and rather asking ''Were our fathers as •· bad as we are ~\ Let me not be Inisunder- stood. I am not here to dethrone any · cherished idols or to dispel any pleasing· illusions. I share the general reverence for the past, and do not detract from the grandeur and glory of the legacy it has transm.it~ed to us-· all the greater because of the difficulties under which it was achieved. It is the fashion to paint only the sunshine of the elder day; I have. barely touched on some of the .shadows. . To recognize the spots is not to be blind to the splendor of the sun. My issue is not with the exaltation of the earlier . period but with the unjust disparagement of the later. In the comparison I deny. the decay and demoralization of our times. Something of the halo. that crowns and · softens the mountain peaks of the past is the purple tint of distance; much of the seam and scar that shades the present is the effect of immediate contact and will fade as it .recedes in time. The faults and blemishes of the bygone heroes are for- gotten, and only their glories remain; the · frailties and the follies of the living are· seen face to face, and in their nearness cloud the virtues as the hand covers the sun. This propensity to exalt the past is nothing new. Lord Macaulay found a tendency to glorify the age of the Stuarts over the age of Victoria. \It may at first seem strange,\ he said, ''that society, while constantly moving forward with eager speed, should be constantly looking backward with tender regret. It is in some sense unreasonable and ungrateful in us to be constantly discontented with a condition which is constantly improving. But in truth there is constant improve- ment precisely because there is constant discontent. If we we~e perfectly satisfied with the present, we should cease to con- trive, to labor and to save with ~ view to the future, and it is natural that, being dissatisfied with the present, we should form a too favorable estimate of the past.\ Young gentlemen, you step out into a present which is an advance upon the past, and you look to a future which will excel the present. The world grows better as it grows older. The onward marcb of time is the march of both material and moral progress. The general level is constantly rising. If the Mount Washingtons do not seem to tower around us as when we look far behind it is because we are a1l up on the table land. We have a different per- spective, and we have different C()nditions. Our fathers lived in the shadow and the solitude of the tallow -dip and ,the stage- coach ; we live in the glare of an electric light which reveals every wrinkle. Our fathers lived in the day of small things, we live in the age of giant forces. It is true we suffer from evils which they could not know-evils which come with the growth of wealth ana population and power ; from speculative greed and corporate aggrand- izement and ring rapacity ;. front the vices of great cities and the struggles of great conflicting interests. But it is equally true that the compensating gains far outweigh those evils. Never was education so broadly diffused ; never was the right of independ- ent judgment so freely exercised; never was the sceptre of political chief o1· the. creed of party convention so toned and swayed by intelligent public opinion ; never were the alert sentinels of public journalism so vigilant or impelled by such a hjgh sense of responsibility ; never did bi()gtry and passion, whether in church or state, exert so little influence ; never did phila11thropy and charity spread so far and wide the mantle of their sweetness and light. ,., .. J • ( ] . ] i ~ ( . ] 1 1 ( 1 1 E l 1 oJ l I E ' C' c: ( { '

THE OONCORDIENSIS. 9 You go forth in an age not only of higher impulse but of boundless opportunities. At .: the dawn of the Republic, outside of the •· pulpit, the only open avenue for intellectual •• activity and genius was politics and public life. Even fifty years ago the field had . scarcely broadened. The professions of law • and medicine were still in their infancy. · We had no literature, or art, or science. , J ournalistn was nothing more than violent , political palnphleteerin,g. Even the com- merce of Astor and Girard was simple •• barter and trade. There was no vast · .. railroad system, with its marvellous scope , for the genius of organization and com- : 1nand. There were no great constructions . to call out the wonderful resources of modern engineering, There was no deveL- , op1nent of the subtle and occult and mighty forces which, under the inventive skill and applied science of our day, have astonished us with their achievements. ' 'J.1here were none of the far-teaching ' projects and colossal combinations which · illustrate the penetration, the enterprise, . the daring and the grasp of our business spirit. we.make our business a triumph. of intellect, and coin our triumphs of intellect into the profit of business. We no longer limit genius to Grub street, and recognize that talent and education are capital as well as money. You have a · wide choice, not only for the pleasures of n1ind, but for the prizes of life, and if you start upon the career for· which you have been pr~paring, great p.ossibilities beckon you onward. But they will not be realized without labor and patience. All real advance is measured growth. No solid and lasting success comes without persistent effort. '' Pray, sir,\ asked a young student of an artist who was distinguished for the splen- dor and glow of his coloring, ''with what do you mix your colors 1\ '' I mix them, sir, with brains,\ was the answer. The brilliant master of tints taught a universal lesson. Brains are the ruling solvent. If the beauty of color is the brighter when genius irra- diates it, the achieve1nent of labor will be the greater when intelligence infor1ns it. \We row in the same boat, you know,\ said a pretentious comic writer in a patro- nizing w·ay to Douglas Jerrold. \ True,\ answered Jerrold, \ in the sa1ne boat, but not with the same sculls.\ It is of vast consequence to the progress of the boat which you are just launching on the untried sea of life to understand what sort of sculls you bring to the enterprise and how you apply them. The great les· son is that there is no achievement with- out patient and well-directed labor. When Clay made his brilliant speech on the right of petition, it was supposed to have . been struck out in the heat of debate, but Preston of South Carolina settled that point by declaring that Clay had read it to him from manuscript in advance. When Webster, on the day following the philip 4 pic of Hayne, rose and made his immortal reply, the world wondered at the splendor of the oratory with so little time for prep- aration. But Webster, himself, afterward stated that a large part of the speech had been written long before, and the stately and noble preparation had been running through his n1ind for years. The great structures of history have been slowly built. You have barely laid the foundations of your work. You have only learned how to learn. The great part of your educa- tion is before you. The careful training of your Al1na Mater has given you the tools, and it is for you to use them not only in building th.e ten~ple of outward success but in rearing the shrine of that inward intellectual and spiritual aspira- tion which has the divine spark and which is the highest joy and glory of life. The last tin1e it was my fortune to see Ralph

10 THE CONCORDIENSIS. • W a[dc E'mersorl just as I was entering on my profession, warning n1e with the phi- losopher's wisdo1n of the dangers of kasty · thinking and desultory reading which wer-e incident to it, he said: ~.'Never let :a day pass without giving ha1f an hou~t·, if you cannot give more, to the readin:g of history.\ I am sorry to say tha-t I have not followed the injunction though I have never ceased to be grateful for its influence. I pass it on to yo1.1. with the hope that you n1ay be more faithful thalt I, and in doing so I recall that other sayjn:g of Emerson, \Men who read his- toTy J.~ead unconsciously as superior beings..\ Ther-e are great figures like William of. Oran.ge, and Cro1nwell and Washington. and Hamilton and Lincol11 that march along the grand highways of history with · the tongue of inspiration and with the . swo1~t of command. Their flaming -torch blazes the pathway of destiny; their lofty: fello\'vship enkindles and e11no bles the miiul; and as you tread the stately corri- · dors. of the centuries under their influ- enc€,. with the wide illumination of human expeTience and with the elevation of high 1noti -v€ and great achievement, new vistas ope1t before your enraptured eyes and you feel tbe quickening glow of the masters. You have duties as well as opportuni- ties. You are placed in a position of· leader·ship. The people look to their edu- cated men for guidance. You have gath€red the richest fruits of our institu- · tions and you owe the best service to the state and to society. Scholarship, espec- ially, llas a high duty in elevating the tone of flOUtical contention and public life. I do not syn1pathize with the ·wild and reck- less ~denunciation of the public service as inefficient and corrupt. It isn't true; it doesrit touch the real sores; it confuses a11d ruisleads the public mind.. Outside of . the lai~ge cities, with their local rings, the ptlblie service, by whatever party admin- istered, has for the most part been as honestly and faithfully conducted as the average of private business. The root of the evil is not a lack of integrity or capacity, but the lack of a proper concep- tion that public office is a public trust and not a personal appurtenance; ·it is not 1naladministration, but ·the organization· of the administrative machinery outside of its proper function into a political engine. And no duty of American schol- arship is more commanding than that of leading the awakened American thought to a still higher and broader apprehension of the true governmental system. It is the work uot simply of the cloister but of the public arena. It is the work not of sour and querulous and morose cynicisn1 but of practical leadership in practical methods. I am too much im- press~d with my duty as a citizen and too deeply interested in the grand drama \of popular government to sit down coolly and calmly in my little private box of this great theater of public action, and simply amuse 1nyself with petty criticisn1 o~ the faulty dress or the paste jewels, while the decisive 1nove1nents of the stupendous play are going forward around me; instead of t\J;lat I \vill, with honest co11 victions, choose my side in this struggle, use the practical agencies of free institutions, do 1ny best to uplift its standard to a worthy ideal, and fight its battles manfully and earnestly. In this mission of citizenship and scholar- ship you have eve~y inspiration. \Have a care,\ says the demagogue to the patriot in Heine's story, ' ' for if the people lose theil' reason they will tear thee to pieces.'' \Tak:e care of thyself,\ answers the patriot to the demagogue, ''for when the people recover their reason they will tear thee to pieces.\ Popular government may be trusteQ.. The appeal to popular passion may preYail to-day, but the appeal to pop- ular reason will tTiumph to-n1orrow. And ..

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 11 there is no higher satisfaction or loftier duty for educated 11:1en than in lead- . ing this public opinion which is the ruling force of free government. And so, young gentlemen, these oppor- tunities invite you a11d these duties ,com- mand you, as you take your place in the best of· ages, under the best of govern- ments, among the best o] peoples. Going • forth with the gen:erous enthusiasm and the pure aspirations of ardent young man- hood, clad in the arnror of right and . equipped with the training of a devoted and cherished Alma .Metter, let me adjure you to uplift your standard, to keep the faith of your own best ambition, and wherever placed, in whatever sphere, do valiant battle for truth. and principle. Above all to thine own self be true, And it shall follow as the night the day,. Thou canst not then be false to any man. BLATCHFORD 'ORATION. Light-Physical a.n.d Intellectual. When darkness reign.ed supreme, God said ''let there be light,\ and out over the · immensity of space, light burst forth in . all its effulgence. From the dawn of that morning when the genial rays of the suu first flooded the earth, countless fot·rn s of life sprang into existence and this globe was clothed with garments of light. Above, beneath, on every side, its radi- ance streamed out, making each part in the vast concave bl--ighter than the lines which the lightning pencils. on the mid- night cloud. ~et, we ask, what is this wonderful thing ?-physical light~-· sosiin- ple, yet so mysteTious; so gentle, yet so . powerful, penetrating and pervading all space; revealing not only the exquisite symmetry and pro:por,tions qf form, but also the beauty and color of outward and Vif3ible thingsp As the eye reJOices in the light by which it surveys the universe of matter, so the mind thrills with pleasure at the entrance of that light by which it surveys the world of thought; especially in the development and acquisition of new truth. Faraday was so overwhelmed in his dis- covery of some of the powers of electric- ity that he was almost delirious with joy, when be exclai1ned: ,,, Oh! but to live in it•! oh·! but to l~ve in it!\ Magnificent, indeed, was the creation of the physical, but far more sublime was the creation of the intellectual and spirit- ual. When we consider the possibilities that lie before men, we are constrained, to exclaim-'' The hu1nan mind is the grand- est display of the poweT and skill of the infinite.\ Enlightened and cultured minds are the · foundation upon which rest the security and stability of government. Hence insti- tutiollS of learning become the dispensers of intellectual light and in these the best interests of national life center. Since the establish1nent of the first University in Paris has the conflict been raging betvv-een light and darkness, knowl- edge and ignorance. Our forefathers, quick to perceive the advantages of edu- cation, no soor1er settled in~ the new land, than they turned their attention to the founding of a college. Within the last century, science has made rapid strides; the stage-coach has given way to the steam engine; electricity has been summoned to the aid of n1an; on the wings of lightning, thoughts flash froin continent to continent, to the retnot- est ends of the earth. The ad vance in every department has been so rapid and extensive, that an attempt to particular- ize vvould be futile. Just as, in every mountain range, a few peaks tower in n1ajesty above the neigh-· boring heights, so in every age there have

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS. been men of superior genius, as Plato, The University of Pennsylvania will Paul, Dante, Luther and Milton, who, admit women as. students in all the vari- seizing the torch of tru-th, have borne it ous courses. along and lighted the masses into regions An1herst has 100 freshmen; Williams hitherto dark and unexplored. 85, Ha1nilton abou.t 30, Madison 50, W es- In the 15th century,, when the literary leyan 55, Cornell about 400, and Lehigh world had been for ages obscured as by a 170. ;; total eclipse, a light of vivid brightness · Out of 1,20() undergraduates at Cornell, burst forth in the inven~jon of the printing . n€arly two-thirds come from the state of press, forever dispelliRg: the gloom of the New York, and both sexes are largely dark ages. · from the farming region of the interior. While we appreciate::tlldextolindividual • .-· Lehigh Burr. effort in its attempt to elevate the masses. · In view of the reports circulated to the by a diffusion of light ~Jld knowledge, we effect that the Johns Hopkins University hold that it is the duty ;()fa nation to exert was financia1ly embarrassed, President its power to develop the minds of its citi- Gilman atithorizes the statement that the zens. present efficiency of the university is as- In doing this, she win not only exercise sured for at Iea~t three years. He says the noblest prerogative of government but · that, while the income from Baltimore and h. 1 · ht · Ohio stock has completely failed, gifts also coOperate with t e A mig Y Ill one amounting to $300,000 have been received of His sublimest works. within the last six months. Upon the broad foundation of knowledge and free education, the .American nation has reared the grandest htstitutions knowl?- to history. In this respect she st-ands pre-eminent, and just as the statue oE Liberty sheds its rays out over the dark ocean, beckoning the weary mariner on to his haven, so .America sends forth Ught and truth into the reinotest corners of the earth, in rous- ing nations who sit in darkness to purer motives and nobler aims. So through her efforts, the gloom which now enfolds the . earth shall be dispelled, and the light of knowledge and truth sbaU cover it as the waters cover the sea. F. F. BLESSING. Syracuse is to have ~:foot-ball eleven. The vvill of Professor Elias Loomis, lately deceased, bequea-ths the bulk of his estate, valued at from $250,000 to $300,000, 'to Yale· University. Dr. Elias Loomis, who died at New Haven, August 15, was one of the best known professors in America, and widely celebrated for an exeellent series of text- books, severa] of which have been trans- lated into different languages and used in European institutions. His published works, including scientific books and papers, exceed one hundTed i~ num~er. For many years he led a sohtary hfe, keeping aloof from society, and his eccentricities were remarkable. He was seventy-eight years old. .A.s has been the case for the past three years, Yale leads the colleges in the num- ber of athletic championships won. By gaining the football, baseball, track ath- letic, and rowing cham.pionships, Yale has a quadruple victory. Harvard comes next with her Freshman race over Columbia and the tennis singles and doubles. The University of Pennsylvania holds third place by winnjng the Freshman race with Yale a1;a~ the cricket chatnpionship. Cor- nell holds the rowing championship among the minor colleges, and Princeton has the lacrosse cham:pionship.~Yale News.

THE OONOORDIENSIS. 13 THE CONCORDIENSIS.t thh·~t ~he ch 1 atn~e sfhoutl~ takeh ptlacedat IS time. · IS sa e o say t a un er PUBLISHED MON'THLY BY - . STUDENTS OF UNION CoLLEGE. no instructor has the ·always irksome course been less irksome and product- BOARD OF E.lJITORS: ! ive of more good than under Lieut. F. E. HAwKEs, ·'go, EDIToR-IN-CHIEF. '· Benham; but there has always been a B C L · ' :go, }· - AssocrA, TEs. : strong dislike and noticeable sentiment · • • ITTLE, gi, w. A. McDoNALD, 'g1, - LrTERARY EDITOR. ; against the military work, and it is the HOMER B. WILLIAMS, '9 2 , ~ ASSISTANTS. ; Universal feelin,g that the trusteeS have L. H. CARRIS, 'g3, f H. T. MosHER, 'go, - BusiNEss EnrToR. · acted wisely in abolishing it. JG. WF·. MFERGUSON, 'gt, ·} AssisTANTS. . ·* * * · . . OSHER, '' 92, ---.,'go, .. GILLESPIE CLuB EDIToR. • OwiNG to the inability of Mr. Schofield TERMS, $r.50 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE. : to take the position Of tutor ill mathe- SINGLE CoPIEs, 2 ° CENTs. ' matics, Edgar H. Winans, '88, was ap- we desire our friends to send us contributions, items of inter- I· est and information concerning .Alumni. • · pointed in his place. Mr. Winans' abilities Subscriptions taken at Robison's news room, 263 State street,. I where receipts can be obtained. E:J(tra copies can be obtained :. and Careful thoroughneSS }eave no doubt at above news room or on application to Business Manager. ; Sub~cribers not receiving papers promptly will kimdly notify • aS to his fitneSS and SUCCeSS in that Busmess Manager. 1 .All remittances should be made and sent to THE OoNCORDIEN- · position. srs, Schenectady, N.Y. * Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N. Y., as second-class matter. BRANDOW PRINTING COMPANY, ALBANY, N.Y. To ALL of the older classes at Union; to · every me1nber of our new class of sixty· men; to the faculty and college officers; : to all who, according to the daily news- • papers, have been \summering \visit- : ing,\ ''passing a few days,\ ''rusticating,\ '' :fishina- '' ''hunting \ \entertained by\ ::::,, ' . and '.'entertaining,\ THE 00NCORDIENSIS extends its cordial greeting and best wishes for the coniing year. It congratu- . lates the students upon the prosperous outlook for the college, and the college. officers upon the decided success of the improvements and automatic appliances .. that make life on the hill once more safe and agreeable. * * * WITH the expi~ation of the term of Lieut. Benham, the military department . at Union has been abolished. Before the issue of this paper the popular li~utenant will have \received reinforcements\ and be settled in Schenectady. It is fitting · * * WE AR.E glad to announce that Mr. Stoller, formerly tutor in natural history, has been made professor of biology. Prof. Stoller has made these~~ branches a . ~ . li~e study and is worthy of his advance- ment. * * * WITH the exception of Cornell, Union has made more advancement in foot-ball than any New York state college, and is passably familiar with the ga1ne. A large number of ou1· best players are back; our facilities for practice are unexcelled, and our newly equipped gymnasium offers the best opportunity for training. It would appear that the only doubt of success this fall lies in the traditional '' slowness\ of all save the enthusiasts in this sport. Let every man who is not physically unable come on the campus to give the team practice ; let every broad-shouldered freshman try his strength at the game; let every class organize its eleven and so find out who are the players. Most men do not discover that they are players until late in their course, simply from ignor- ance of their abilities. Finally, let every

14 THE OONOORDIENSIS. one cheerfully give financial support to the organization according to his ability. I11 these days, success in athletics is one of the most ilnportant factors in the glory of a college, and the glory of U nio11 should be the perso11al pride of each of her sons. * * * THE 00NCORDIENSIS hopes this year t<> lowing officers : .President, Pickford; Vice- President,. Baker; Secretary, Brandtnahl; Treasurer, Schw:ilk ; Addresser, Stewart; Grand J\iarshal, Carroll ; .Orator, Fish; Prophet!! Edwards; Base-ball Director, Cassidy; Ivy Orator, Bennett; Toast- master, Wright; Pipe Orator, Lochner; Poet ana Ivy Poet, Knox. The officers elected by the junior class for this year are as follows: President, Adams; Vice-President, Burr; Secretary, Lay; Treasurer, Conant; Base-Ball Direc- tor, Little; Foot-Ball Director, Ferguson; Toastma,sier, Fisk; CoNOORDJENSIS Editor, McDonald. The following constitute the junior hop: com1nittee and give assurance of successful dances: Little~ Robertson, Walker, :Burg, Ferguson, McDonald, Co- print in each of its nu1nbers cuts of mem- bers of the Union College faculty, and gives for a frontispiece this month a por- . trait of President Webster. Although this appeared in last year's OoNCORDIENSIS, we think that the members of the new , class will be glad to possess the likeness of the man who begins the second year of his administration after the pronounced suc- cess of last year's work:. Holding the support of the trustees, the cooperation of the faculty, the confidence of Union's iln1nense and powerful alumni, and the sincere affection of a loyal body of stu- dents, President Webster can look for- ward to years of more pleasant labor and the assured success of the _institution. . riant and Briggs. * * * ''THAT which comes last is best remenl- bered.\ We hope that this will prove true of the appeal that the OOJfCORDIENSIS now makes to its subscribers. A successful paper cannot be published upon the credit of the editors, and we earnestly re1nind our delinquent subscribers of last year that about half the subscYiptions are still unpaid. It is a small ma-tter to each man; but to the persons who must personally advance funds for the publication of this nutnber, it looks larger. The sophomore officers will be: Presi- dent, Dougall; Vice-President, Reddish; Secretary, Sanders; Treasurer, Loeben- stein; Base-Ball Director, Banker; Foot- Ball Director, Dailey; OoNCOJtDIENSIS Edi- tor, Homer B. Williams. The freshman class has elected the fol- lowing men as officers foT the present year: P:resident, McAlpine; Vice-Presi- dent, Lamb; Secretary, Raymond; Treas- urer, Gellespie; Historian, Sl1anahan; CoN- OORDIENS.IsEditor, Carris; Base-ball Direc- tor, Tallman; Foot-ball Director, Bab- cock. UNION opened Sept. 18th with a fresh- man class of about sixty nleJl, with sev- eral additi()ns to the upper classes, and all men of mtO;st excellent material Those who entered with conditions were exceedingly few, while the proportion in the different courses is well maintained. Whereas, last year, almost the en tire class was from Class Officers. the state ()f New York, this year we have The senior class assembled in the chapel n1en from the south, the north and west. Monday afternoon, September 30th, and One of the me1i to enter, A. F. Wright, is - with marvelous harmony elected the fol- 1 from the Jndian territory, and is the son

THE CONOORDIENSIS. 15 of a former chief of the Choctaw nation ·· Prof. A. S. Wright spent some time at and ex-governor of the Indian territory. • White Lake, N. Y. It is thus assured that Union wiU be Prof. Wells rested at home, in Schenec- in no sense a local eollege. The following • tad y. is a list of the freshman class and the · Prof. Lamoreaux also stayed in Scherr- entries in the different courses: I t· d · ec a y. 22sci B. R. Babcock, 4llat sci G. , Prof. Stoller spent the summer in Ar- Banker, 48eng R. H. Bellows, l0c G. T. : kansas, upon the State Board of Survey. Bradt, 42c E. Burke, 43c J. Burke, 27sci •. Prof. Brown was employed by the State L. H. Garris, 3C 0. W. Olowe, 15eng E. G. Board of Health in making an inspection Conde, Sec W. F. Cromer, 54eng W. D. , of the Hudson river. He was aided by Culver, 4en 8 . g 0. R. Dean, 47ecA· WF. ~- : Little, , 91 . Dean, 46ec . L. Dougherty, 21c . air- •. Prof. Perkins, in the absence of his lee, 26eng 0. ,V. Field, 2·9sci H. 0. Fox, I . Gl F W family in EuTope, went to South Carolina. 14sci E. Gellespie, 18c H. · en, 40c ' .. · . , G 30 · W A ·H ··It 33 ·T J Prof. Truax traveled through Europe rupe, sci . . ami on, . · eng . · . · H \ck 38c G I=r Hoxi·e 2·oc G T during the summer. err1 , . . . :t. , . . • • Hughes, lleng J. Kenny, 2eng E. A. Prof. Ripton spent two weeks at Ocean Lamb, 3'7sci A. M. Le,vald, 45sci E. D .. ·Grove. Lines, 16sci W. B. Lippencott, 25sci B. H. · Prof. Hoffman, aside from short trips Lord,. 9sd G. C. McAlpine, 12c F. McPart- · to Saratoga and Long Branch, remained Ion, 10c H. D. Merchant, 23lat sec J. R. in Schenectady working upon his studies. Morey, 39ec W. 'T. Mynderse, 6c S. G. ,., H s R Prof. Ashmore went to the University Parent, lc E. E·. Pike, 1, ec . . ay- • mond, 34eng J. 0. Reynolds, 28eng A .. of Bonn, where he took the lectures in J. Roy, 24eng J. A. Shanahan, 51sci philology of the last six weeks of the J. B. Spruill, 35eng 0·. N. Tallman, . term; after which, he spent the remainder 36c R. H. Thatcher, 5eng H. A. Van of two months in Berlin, roaming through the museums. Prof. Ashmore returns, Alstyne, 50lat sci J. H. VanDerveer, 49ec H. s. Van Voast, 44sci B. Van Zandt, 7c . feeling that his time has been valuably E. J. Webster, 52sci 0. S. Whiting, 19c. spent. A. F. Wright, 55sci R. B. Lewis. Where the Faculty Were. NEWS CONCERNING THE FRESH HEALTH AND FRESH INFORMATION GATHERED BY OUR INSTRUC- TORS DURING THE SUMMER. President Webster spent most of his time in Schenectady; but was .at Halifax and on the Maine coast for two weeks. Dr. Whitehorn remained in Schenectady· the entire su1nmer. Prof. T. W. Wright traveled in the far west-principally in Montana. The Bowling Alley. In the excellent re-equipn1ent of the gymnasium, nothing needful has been omitted but attention to the bowling alley, located under the gymnasium. It is now in such a condition that a verv lit- \' tle expense will put it in shape for use. There is no sport more fascinating to many than. bowling; and the opportunity to pursue this exer~ise would be greatly appreciated by those who cannot find tin1e to enter the regular class in calisthenics, but who ofte11 have an extra hour in the morning or afternoon. ...

16 THE OONOORDIENSIS. Why not have a tennis tournan1ent ~ Unio11 has received foot-ball challenges from Cornell and Williams. Sixty freshmen. Their yell is : ''Whoop ! Rah, Rah ; U-pi-dee 1 Union, Union, ninety-three!'' . George H. Clute, '90, has been elected · captain of the foot-ball eleven for the present year. A large class in calisthenics has been organized, and will work under the direc- tion of Mr. VanDerveer. A reception was given to the senior class, September 26th, at the hon1e of . President Webster. They met, there, members of the faculty and their families .. Robertson, '91, has had a ·piano placed · in his room. This is the only piano in the dormitories and serves to make Robert- · son's room 1nore of· a ''hang-out\ than . ever. A game of ball between nines from '92 . and '93 resulted in a victory for the latter, by a score of 14 and 9. .This is the first • instance in a long time of the first game being won by the freshmen. The corrugated iron ceilings are an· immense improvement. Hereafter, inqui- ries concerning the personality and char- · acter of George W ashingto11: will not have their former disastrous effects. During the ''setting up,\ two weeks ago, a lamp was· overturned in a small rush and the scattering oil took fire. It looked for a few moments as if the conse- quences might be serious; but by the com- bined efforts of the students the blaze was soon out. '83. G. W. Sherwood has been ap- pointed instructor in civil engineering at Lehigh University. '89. Hanson is tutoring in Amsterdam. '89. Waite is at hishomein·SandyHill. '89. Whalen has been doing bridge work. '89. Voorhees is studying law at Co- lumbia. '89. Cameron is at Princeton Theologi- cal Seminary. '89. i Flannigan is at Westerly e1nployed as a draughtsman. '89. Conover is now at his home in Pattersonville, N. Y. '89. Nolan is studying law with his brother in Schenectady. '89. Snow is at New Bedford, Mass., engaged in engineering. · '89. Lewis is studying at the medical college in Washington, D. 0. '89. Hunsicker is studying law with his father in Norristown, Pa. Tbe senior essays are due Prof. Truax '89. Furman was married during the October 14th and November 4th, and will • vacation to Miss Annie Rector of Schen- be written upon the following subjects: ectady, and is now employed as Principal Resolved, \That the English are a freeer of the union school at Cambridge, N. Y. people than the Americans~\ and ''Words- • , '89. Culver is studying law at the Co- worth as a philosopher.\ lumbia law school in New York. He The President made a half-hour speech expects to play with the Columbia foot- to the students, early in the term, upon ball eleven. various college topics, and particularly · , 90 _ DePuy has left college. concerning the drinking habit, urging upon all to abstain, ·even to the degree of '90. A. B. Wright, of St. Paul, Minn., ·total abstinence. · has entered the senior class. , ] ]

THE CONCORDIENSIS. '91. S. H. Adams has entered the jun- ior class from Hamilton College. :91. W. 0. Lay, has entered the engi- . neering course in '91. He was formerly •· at Madison University. '92. Banker, Perkins and E. ·N. P. · Dailey have left college. '92. T. H. Reddish.has left Williams· College and enters sophomore at Union. \, Lieutenant Henry Hill Benham was · married on Thursday, October 3d, to Miss Anna Franchot of Schenectady. The cere- • mony took place at St. George's _Qhurch in this city. In the evening a reception was held at the home of Mr. and Mrs. John Keyes Paige, the parents of the bride. Notes. It is possible that Union will play foot- ball with Rochester at Elmira on Thanks- . g1v1ng. Rochester University has a team. that defeated an eleven run by a stock company in the city. From all reports it will require a strong team to defeat Rochester in the proposed game. rhe John Crouse Memorial College for . women, a gift of the late John Crouse to the Syracuse University, was dedicated on the 18th inst. The building .cost about $500,000, and is considered one of the finest colle~e buildings in the country. · Necrology. .- One of the leading homreopathic physi- cians of .New York, Dr. Edward Bayard, who died at Yarmouth, Va., Saturday, September 28th, at the age· of eighty- three, was a graduate of Union College. His brothers were ex-United States Sena- · tors Richard and James Bayard, while he was uncle to ex-Secretary of State 'l,homas F. Bayard. He was a staunch democrat. He was buried at Johnstown, N. Y. F®eln~y .. Postponed. Sometime ago I planned to make A trip f<_:>r recreation's sake. Into the country would I go And pass in fun a week ~r so. That I might be in latest style I bought for cash a new straw tile, Four flannel shirts, some yellow shoes, Two dozen ties of gorgeous hues, Two flannel suits of purest white, A tennis sash, a blazer bright, A racquet and a summer suit. Some patent leather shoes to boot, A fishing pole, a Gladstone grip, A silver flask to hold a nip. . And then in counting up my cash I found that I'd been somewhat rash So that, for reasons that are clear, My trip's postponed until next year. Ye Constant Lover. I cannott leave ye olde love: Y e new love will nott yielde, And 'tis not welle, forsooth, to dwelle Alone on Life's broad Fielde. Swete May is faire as Roses That round ye trellis twine, And Anne is fairer far than she :- But-zounds !-she won't be mine. I kiss my May twice weeklie, And whisper \I a1n true,\ I pleade wyth Anne ye other nights :- Alas, I vainlie sue ! I'll aske swete Anne to wed me ; And, if she says me nay, I'll grieve no rnore; but leve ye doore And go to faythfull May. I cannott leave ye olde love: Y e new love will nott yielde, And 'tis not welle, forsooth, to d welle Alone on Life's broad fielde. -Yale Record. 1'7

ADVERTISEMENTS. ELEG~NT __ AN~ u~_EFl!,L ~?ODS. Our assortment includes a full line of $il\?Ct==~late() ~are, Elegant Lamps, China, Fancy Glassware and Novelties in! great -variety. Many other attractions too numerous to mantion-OOME. S. B. :r ~J:M:l:ES., :tN::I:a,nage:r., Y. M. C. A. Building, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. • Printing. Engraving~ MEN\tJS. PROGRAMS. INVITATIONS. VISITING CARDS. NOTE HEADS. ENVELOPES. Brandow Printing Company, 15 North Pearl Street, Albany, N.Y. WOOD BROS., . J OHN L. BURGESS, ·· , , 255 State St?~eet, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. · :Manufacturer .of SHIRTS, UNDERWEAR, GLOVES, HOSIERY, NECKWEAR, COLLARS AND CU~FS. ~Good.s reoei. ved :for ':'roy :::I:ta.undry. DR. 0. J. GROSS, ~· DENTIST,========~ OFFICE HOURS FRO.ll£ 9 A. M. TO 4 P. M. 156 Jay Street, ScHENECTADY, N. Y. A.M. POWERS, No. 429 State St., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. z IMMER & KINGMAN, ,(iver~, Sale ano \!trc~ange :Stables, I30, IJ2 and IJ4 CENTRE STREET .. Single and Double Rigs furnished on Short Notice. Telephone Connection. SOLID GOLD JEWELRY FRATERNITY P·INS, BADGES AND MEDALS, No. 12 PLAIN ST., up-stairs, ALBANY, N.Y. . AUGUST SCHMIDT, . ~~avin~ and Hair Bressin~ ~arlors, OPPOSITE GIVENS' HOTEL, (UP~ STAIRS.) Ri,chmond Straight-Cut No. I Cigarettes. C IGARETTE smokers who are willing to pay a little more than the price charged for the ordin- ary trade cigarettes will find THIS BRAND superior to all others. The Richmond Straight-Cut No. I Cigarettes are made from the brightest, most delicately flavored and highest cost Gold Leaf grown in Virginia.. This is the Old and Original Brand of Straight-Cut Cigarettes, and was brought out by us in the year 1875. Beware of imitations and observe that the firm name as below is on every package. ALLEN & GINTER, Manufacturers, RICHMON:fi 1 VA. ( • •

• ADVERTISEMENTS. THE GENTLEMEN SMOKE HIGH-CLASS . ·. CIGARET'JE 1 S:. SPECIAL FLAVORS : Club, Opera and Prince of Wales for Gentlem,en.,,a~d Bou- · doir size for Ladits, SWEET CAPORAL, NEW YORK STA.N\Do.&RD . THE STANDARD OF THE WORLD.. FINE CONFECTIONS, BON BONS &ND CHOCOLATES. Also fine line of Fancy Goods and Bonbonie~e-...s. 35 NORTH PEARL STREET, ALBANY,. N. Y. Branch 863 Broadway. B. DEKL YN, Ma:Il!:llger. EDWARD s. BRIGNALL, BOOTS at;zd SHOE,S, UNION HALL STORE. lliirThe 1nost complete line and latest style.s. THE WINDSOR Restaurant, (:~AS~ FAIRFIELD, P\roprietor. ;31 ~nd 33. IY;[ajqen ~ane, ALBANY, ~0- & :I::.~ '' . . DAY LICHT* lAMP''· ~ Gives ib:e ne~1·est approach. to artifici·a1 daylight possible. Evmy <me in town and country uses ker0~ene lamps of some descrip- tion fo:r reading and Wl'iting, and this notwithstanding the a1Jttndance of gasail<l: electric light. The ;Steadiest, :Strongest, Safest, most ·EasUy Managed) and MOS::r' ECONOlUICAL of all n1cdern lamps., is the ''DAYLIGHT.'' Wheu,r-eady for new lamp inquire . for \DAYLIGHT.\ If your local dealm· ba.,sn't it, write direct to AGENTS== DAYli,GHT LAMP .Co., -WANTED ! N(). 38 Park Place, NEW YORK. Or, to CRAIGHEAD & KINTZ C.O. 33 Barclay St.J New York, TEACHERS-WANTED! Eight Principals, Eleven Assistants, and a n urn. ber for Music, also Art and SpeciaJti.es. Send stamp for application for·m and circulars of information to NATIONAL SCIJDOL SUPPLY BUREAU, Mention this paper. CHICAGO:~ ILL. H ATBAWAY'S Livery Stable, 304 CLINTON ST.' Single and Double Rigs furnished on Short Notice. Depot Calls a Specialty. Telephone Connection,

ADVERTISEMENTS. TROJAN STEAM LAUNDRY, II5 SOUTH CENTRE STl?EET. The undersigned has had eleven years' experience in the Laundry business in Troy, and the produc- tion of this Laundry is second to none. ALL WORK GUARANTEED. Equal in. every respect to Troy Worh.. Give us a trial. EMMOTT HOWD, Proprietor. A.BROWN & SON, ESTABLISHED 1829. UPHOLSTERERS AND fURNITURE DEllLERS, 302 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. CLARKE, CATERER --TO-- CHAS. N. YATES, I36 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. · Beds, Chairs, Mattresses and all articles pertaining to furnishing students' rooms. ~GOODS DELIVERED FREE. c HAS. HOLTZMANN, Nos. aoi and 203 STATE STREET, .SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Petject Fz't and Good Work Guaranteed. -:- WILLIAM PAASCHEN! - ·- • Cor. Liberty and Centre Streets. WEDDINGS, BANQUETS AND PARTIES, MILWAUKEE AND ROCHESTER LAGER AND FRESH ALE. 49 Hudson Avenue, ALBANY, N. Y. THE FINEST CHOCOLATES, BONBONS AND CONFECTIONERY made fresh daily. Also the largest assortment of Fancy Cakes for Parties or Suppe-rs in the city, 1nade at sh01\t notice. BAKERS, SCHERMERHORN & CO., 112 WALL STREET, 431 S'r A,.rE STREE'F. R. K. QUAYLE, ALBANY, N. Y_. WEDDING AND COLLEGE INVITATIONS, CARDS, MONOGRAMS. Or(ginal Designs when .lJesirea. A First-Class Lunch Counter Attached; also Pool and Billia1·d Tables. H ARMAN CONSAUL, Wholesale and Retail Deale:r in !loots, 9~oc.s a1tb tttubbtrs, a6o State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. WILSON DAVIS, MIRtHANT TAILOR, .. 237 STATE STREET, SCHENECTAJ)Y, N. Y, - A - c - .., I J A - J El ]

ADVERTISEMENTS. J . .V. VROOMAN ~& SON, --J>E.ALERSIN------ ESTABLISHED 1854· HZ\rdw~re, );foves, TinwZ\re, PLUMBING, STEAM AND Horr AIR FuRNACEs. All Plumbing~ Steam and Gas Fitting Promptly Attended to. I.J8 and I 40 State St; , SCHENECTADY. HANFORD ROBISON, N tro9~taltt anb 9tatittntr, 263 STATE STREET. Cigars, Tobacco and Cigarettes. Newspapers and . Magazines. Circulating :Library. ETGHIN~GS, ENGRAVINGS, · ft~lg MA](RlAl~. CA nN ;' .. L W T. HANSON & CO·., • 3.1.5 STATE STREET. lDruggtsts an\ tlP\tbecartes. Fii)NE CIGA.RS .A SPECl.A:.LTY. PROPRIETORS OF HANSON'S MAGIC CORN SALVE. 335 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. TOUET .ARTICLES.- -DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES, LEVI CASE & co., -~~p~r, in•J and i~aat )nn f~d~f STEAM, HOT WATER, AND FURNACE HEATING, A SPECIALTY. L A. YOUNG, E. c. HARTLEY, • PIANOS, 0RCANS, · DEALER. I:N AND ~~oirt 6 r.orcric.s ani) JProuisions, MUSICAL MERCHANDISE GENERALLY. . Imported and Domestic Cigars, Tobacco, Confec- Domestic and other Family Sewing Machines. tionery, &c. ARCADE BLOCK, SCHENECTADY, N. Y .. Fine Butter a Specialty. 6o..1 and 6o3 Union Street. KEEI.ER'S _ _.._j1botel anb 1Restaurant, 1-- 26 and .a8 Maiden Lane, EUROPEAN PLAN. ALBANY, N. Y. K lNG, THE TAILOR --AND-- MEN'S OUTFITTER, .. No. 303 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Grain Threshers. unequaled fn capacity for sep .. arating and cleaning. Combined Grain and Clover Threshel'B fully equal to regular grain machines on grain, and & genuine CJ()v.er Huller in addition.. Two Speed Traction and Flnin Engines. 4 to 15 Horse Power, positively the most desirable fo:r Lightness, Economy, Power and Safety. Boiler has horizontal tubes, and ts therefore free from tho Olli..~ctionable features of vertical boilers. Horse P()wers, both Lever and Endless Cba~ All sizes. Send ror catalogue. .Address · \' THE WESTIIGHOUSE CO,, Schenectady, N.Y.

'l·i i I j ~ ADVERTISEMENTS . • THE EDISON MACHINE WORKS, SCHENECTADY 5 N.Y. ... ·.~ ... Sprague El.ectric Motors., Edison Unde.rutound Conductors . INSULATED WIRE AND CABLES, SHAFTING PULLEYS -AND- EDISON ELECTRIC LIGHT MACHINERY. WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED THE BEST INVESTMENT F'OR the Family, the School, the Professional or Private Library. The latest edition contains 3000 more Words and nearly 2000 more Engravings than any other American Dictionary. Among the supplementary features, original with Webster's Unabridged, and unequaled for concise and trustworthy information, are A BIOCRAPHICAL DICTIONARY giving brief facts concerning nearly 10,000 Noted Persons of ancient and modern times. A CAZETTEER OF THE WORLD locating; and briefly· describing; 25,000 ~laces; and the Vocabulary of the names of Noted FICTITIOUS PERSONS& PLACES The latter is not found in any other Dictionary. Webster ex:cels in SYNONYMS, which are appropriately found in the body of the work. Webster is Standard Authority in the Gov't Printing Office, and with the U. S. Supreme Court. It is recommended by the State Supt's of Schools of 36 States, and by the leading College Presidents of the U.S. and Canada. Illustrated Pamphlet Rent free. Published by G. & C. MERRIAM & CO., Springfield, Mass. - Unsurpassed in- Quality. -.- . -.- KIMBALL'S . -.- . -.- . -.- Used by People of Rejined Taste . HIGHE&T AWARD AT BRUSSELS', l~K8. The finest Smoking Mixtures are of our Manufacture. WM. S. KIMBALL # CO., Fifteen .F£rst Prize Medals. ROCHESTER, N. Y. ' ~ ' . ,, '' •. •,_ ~ '· i ' - '.~ ·. I' ~ ., ......... ,''·, ,. ' ' .' ·~ . ; ' ,_ .. ,.. -. ·-, . · ..... '· .... '- ;#· .

ADVERTISEMENTS . .. THE EDISON MA,CHINE WORKS ' INSULATED WIRE AND ,CABLES,. SHAFTING PULLEYS -AND- EDISON ELECTRIC LIGHT MACHINERY. WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED THE BEST INVESTMENT F'OR the Family, the School, the :Professional or Private Library. The latest edition contains 3000 more Words and nearly 2000 more Engravings than any other American Dictionary. Among the supplementary features, original with Webster's Unabridged, and unequaled for concise and trustworthy information, are A BIOCRAPHICAL DICTIONARY giving brief facts concerning nearlylo,ooo Noted Persons of anci('nt and modern times. A CAZETTEER OF THE WORLD locating and briefly describing 25,000 Places; and the Yocahulary of the names of Noted FICTITIOUS PERSONS& PLACES The latter is not found in any other Dictionary. Webster excels in SYNONYMS, which are appropriately found in the body of the work. Wehsteris Standard Authority in the Gov'tPt•inting Office, and with the U. S. Supreme Court. It is recommended by tlw State Supt's of Schools of 36 States, and by the leading College Presidents of the U. S. and Canada. IlluE't.mted Pamphlet sent free. Published by G. & C. MERRIAM & CO., Springfield) Mass, KIMBALL'S --------------------------------- -- Unsurpassed in Quality. -.- . -.- - .·- -.- . -.- Used by Peojlf oj Refined Taste . HIGHEST AWARD HT BRUSSELS, 1888. The finest Smoking Mixtures are of our Manufacture. WM. S. KIMBALL # CO., Fifteen First .Prize Medals. ROCHESTER, N. Y. 1 - -

·- . . - ..... ' . ! • ' ... '. ;;..- • \ CHAS. •G.· ELLIS; Pres'-t. • ' -' > ·, ' -- ~-. • • - '. • '. ·' • ;. • • ~ ' ~·} ' ' • \ ,. > _ . _ WALTER Mcs;)UE.EN, Vte;e-P.re.s t. • I, ~.' ' • --· J. EDWARD ELLIS, Tre2s, ALBERT J. PITKIN, Smpt. .... 1 s· ···c· <H·:.E-.N·._·.E· ·c··r·-·.A·o·· -y· · -·- .. · · ·o· -- v·· -E·_ ·w·· ... ·o .. ·a· ·rs·- .- .. ,. -.--· ···- .. ~ ..... ,.-. · · ·: ··- ·t· ·o-c·o:M·· ... y-~,--.: :-- · :- .. :.: ·-.· -·· ..•.. ·,. < ' ' ·..• .• • • . • ' . ' ! ' '. •.. . • ' • ' . ' ' ' ' • • '· ' ' ' .· ' • ' ' '·. ' ' '•. . ' ·, ·s-··-c·H-- .. E·· 'N. E- · c·T·. A· D. y· , N ... y··. . ; ·: ; • . • .· . :. i · .. •-.: ' . . · .. · . •. : .. ·.· .• , . : •. - .·• ': LocomotiVes '!{Stan,dard Design for all Classes of Servitc, ·or jrom ·Dest\gns (urnisked by Rattroad Comj;anies. 1843-. / ~ ·.1'-.so :: -RELIABLE'::~ .~:-o. j ~ ?'o 0 . Flannel Skirts, iS'~ Lounging- Co«ts, · House Robes, Pa;·ama\f && .. MADE ONLY BY THE' 1889 .. · ... · ........... Co.,. ·THE \RELIAB:LE··· ·LOUNClN·C COAT. BEWBUB.GB, N.Y. OTHER • Sl'YU;S. I - . . \\:;. \ '> • ~-· ' - ·,

CHA$. ·G. EL.LIS, Pres't. WALTER McQUEEN, Vh~e-Pres't. EDWARD ELLIS, Treas. ALBERT J. PITKIN, Supt • . S.C:HENECTADY tUCOMOTlVE WORKS, S.CHENECT AD¥~ N. Y., LocomotzPes oJStandard Design for all Classes of Service, or jrom Desz\gns (urnz'shed by Raz'lroad Compan't\es. 1843. ANNUAL CAPAC:ITY 300. ASK RETAILERS .. 1<.so ;~: 'RELIABLE':\:~ .t-o1 ..S.ou Flannel Shirts, \1'<\ Lounging Coctts, House Robes, Pa;·amas,. &c. MADE ONLY BY THE Man'fg Co., NEWBURGH, N. Y. 1889. THE \RELIABLE\ LOUNCINC COAT, OTHER ~ STYLES.

I . I . ' I' I '! i . : •I : I I ' I I ASK FOR THE FAMOUS i I I . i , . I . . I I l I I I I. I. I - .)lew ~uiZding ALBANY, N. r. fi.NEST STORE 'I.N TH·E UNlrED STATES . n s· .. p···E(ll' HL· N·o··T: ·E·. TO STUDENTSto the H. .·. ' .. : • .. ·u·.·.H.· ·. · .... ·.' ·. . fact that we have the . . . . Largest and Fin e·st Stock of Ready-Made Clothing, Hats and Caps, Trunks, Bags and Furnishing Goods in Albany. .. ~We have a beautiful Custom Department attached, in which will be- found a larg.e stock of both Foreign and Domestic Woolens·. Best •ta;len:t and workmanship are employed. Wb,en in Albany you are .invited: to inspect the building and ma.ke the store your resting place. T HE stock used in the manufacture of this Cigar is tb:e :most. expensive of any fiv~-ce:nt Cigar everput on the '¥l.ar~E}-t. It is really a ten-cent C1gar for five cents. CompetitiOn. clrove us to it. -3ANCHOR BRANDE COLLARS, CUFFSmzd SHIRTS, -:· They will Outwear two Ordinary Collars. -·- . . All Fashionable Styles. For Sale Everywhere. • 0 Q A .. .. , STEWART .B. ANJOS. 1.··1 , LUSCOMB e~==~==========·~============l~ Ill GUITARS ~::~~~~~ I ~ Q We have a complete assortment of these celebrated BanJ_os . and Guitars always in stock and sell them very low, to cluus. ~ . .. . . Q IH ClUETT & SONS. Ill \' .. ~ ~= ~i: 11149 State St., Albany. r1J ~ Q REMEMBER, The Price is 5 cents. Not I 0 c·BIIts .• ~ ' ·I . .

