\Volume XII. A:P.RIL, 1889 . . ,~, -...;: .. ~~ THIS 7 • a =am~ LITERARY- The \ Electra\ of Sophocles at the Ly- ceum Theatre, New York-s. G. A. 107 Chapel Attendance-]. 1. B., - 110 A Strange Contract-A Mere Plot- Geo. Comstock Baker, I I I A Communication- Jas. H. Campbell, r 10 .Notes, - r 19 EDITORIAL, CoLLEGE NEws- Base-ball, '' Crematio Olneii, '92,\ Doings of Alumni, Locals, - PERSONALS, . CLIPPINGS, 120 - 12I I2I - 122 123 ~ 124 124

, .. ! i ! I I I I ' 1 l I f ' t ~· I j I .l l t I I I' r I l • i ! I !' i. I t I ' \ . ,. ' ·,, HARRiSON E. WEBSTER, LL.D., Presz\dent.. V:\ UNION ;CQ:LLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. I. CLASSICAL Cou:RsE- The Classical Course is the 'ltSual baccalaureate course of American colleges. Students may :be permitted to pursue additiona'l studies in either ·of the other courses. z. SciENT~Fic CouRsE.- In the Scientific Course the modern languages are substituted for the ancient, and the amount of mathematical and English· •studies is increased. 3· ScHooL oF CIV'I:L ENGINEERING.- The studen:t in this department enjoys advantages nowhere surpassed in the course of instruction, in its. collection of models, instruments and books, the accumulation of many years :by the late Professor Gi!Jlespie, and also in unusua:lfadlities for acquiring. a practical knowledge of instrumental field work. 4· EcLECTIC CouRsE:.- An Eclectic Course, consisting of studies selected at pleasure from the preceeding courses, may be taken by any one who,, upon examination, is found qualified to pursue it. On the completion of this a certificate of attainment wiU be given. TheFe are also .special courses in Analytical Chemistry, Metallurgy and Natural History. For catalogues or for special information address,. ''.LL' HENRY WHITEHORNE, Dean ofthe Faculty, Schenectady, N. Y\· DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. ALBANY MEDICAL CoLLEGE-Term commences first Tuesday in September and continues twenty weeks. The plan ot instruction combines. clinical teaching with lectures. Special opportunities for the study of Chemistry and of Practical Anatomy. ExPENSEs.-Matriculation fee, $s; term fee, $roo; perpetmal ticket, $so; graduation fee, $25; dissecting fee, $s; fee for laboratory course, $ro.~. histological course, $r8. For circulars address WILLIS G. TUCKER, M.D., Registrar, Albany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. THE ALBANY LAw ScHOOL.-.:The course of :nstruction consists of three terms; the first commencing September 5, the second November 28, and. the third March 6; each term consisting of I2 weeks. The advantages for the study of bw at Albany are as great as can be found anywhere. The law library of the State is open to students; th~ General Terms of the Supreme Court of the Third Department, and all the terms of the Court or.· Appeals. Tuition, $so each term, in advance; $I30 each year, in advance, For information address PRor;:. HORACE E. SMITH, LL.D., Albany, N, Y. DUDLEY OBSERVATORY. This Department of the university is located at Albany, and is devoted especially to Astronomy and Meteorology. For information address PRoF. LEWIS BOSS, Albany, N.Y ... ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. ALJJANY, N. Y.-For information apply to PRoF. WILLIS G. TUCKER, ~M.D •.

. ~~ ~· . . .! . ·:·. ,'. ::.·. ', J,•' :- .'' '·.' '~J .: ·,•,' \. . • !• ' ,. '.: ,! ·.··,.,· ,, ' ,, '· ,, . ')' '• '• . . .. ~. . ; I i' , ;I' '• • •:· -- . . ·.·;t ·,;'. '·; :.: . ' . :· ,. i- . .1.,' HARRISo~ E. WEBSTER, LL .. ·v., Prestdent. '!'i . . ·.,_._.,,: ,· ... ,' t-' UNlON COLLEGE· SCHE.N'ECTADY. N. Y . . . . ..... , ...... ···' ..... , . • ... ·. ·'. •'.\ ' . ' . . .. . . ' .. :J:· CI..AsSIC:AL CotJRsE~Th~ Classical Course is .the :atSu~J baccal~u.rea:te course c;;f ,American eolleg~s. S.tttaents may ·be p~rn:l1tted .to J?ur~u~ · additional studies 1n either of the other courses. 7 . . . . ·.. . . . . . ·. . .. . . .. ·.. .. ~· SCI'J;t;NTlFIC Cotr·RSE • ..,.:Itt·the Sci~nti1ic ·Cour.~¢ ,tb~,m.od¢ri1; :Uniig·~~g~s ~re :substitute(!:, for .tp¢ . ~tt¢i¢o;ti aiJd. the ~ritou·n t :Of:m~t,heib a# cal aild E~glisrh;· .•. . ·.· studies is increased. · · · ·· · ·· · · . .': . · · . . 3· . ScHooL.ol\ (Jrvrit ENGJN~ERI~o,....,.The st1,1dent in .this ·clep4tb~entei:ljoy$ atlv~rritages .nowhere surpa,ssed ·in• .. the course• ofii'istructioil,. in 'it~~ ..•... c;ollecti(),tr of models, instruments and books 1 the ~ccum.ulation of many years by the l'at.e P:r:ofe$sor Gillespie, ~n,d. also .i:n 4nusual facilities fen; acq\Uirihg · · · ·· a pra~tical ki;lowl¢age .(>f ii,tstrqment~l :fi~ld work.· · · · · · · · · · · · · ·· ·4· E<;:L:EC.TIC CouRSE,_,;,. Ail Ekl¢cticC6qrse, CCimsistin.g ofstudies .. $elected: at pl~as4te ftcmi th.e' precc;:¢ding courses, iri~y be taken by· ai\Y o~e who,,' .··.· ~pan examin.ation,- is found qualified to pur~ tie. it. On the completio11 of this a certificate <;>f attaiiunent ;will be given. ·· · · .. ·. ·. ·. , · · · There are also ~petial COlJrSe!? in An~lyt~c;;tl Ohemist:ey, 1\.feta}lt~r:gy aP.d NatutalHistQry. · For catalogues or .for special information add:r~ss;, 'tt.:t~J::; .. · . . . . . . HENRY W;HITEHORN~, ])ean of the Faculty, S6h~nectady, N •. y. . -· ' DE . ·p·A·R· 'TM· .. · E. N·.·.T· o··.·F··. 11\,JrE··.· n1-··c··1- N. E: .. · .. _·-~: _·:- ,_:. · ..... _· ... -- :.·· .... ·_ . . · .. ·:.·.:. ~Y:.L:_:·.v.· .. ~· .... · .. :. -~ . ,;,·. ALBANY MEDXCAL CotL:f!:GE~T¢rm oqmmences: Iir5t Tuesday in· September and contin:u~s twenty weeks.' 'fhe plan.:. ot insta;uction co~bi:nes. clinical teaching with lectures. Sp~cial opportunities for .the study ·ofGhentistty and of :Practical Anatomy. . ·,. EX·PEN~Es,--Matriculati<;>n fee, $s.; term l(!e, $roo; :p~r.petualticket,, $so; graduation fee, $zs·; dissecting fee, $s.; fee for laboratory course:, ~l;Ee.f. histological course, $:r.8. For circJJ.l~rs address WILLIS.G. TUCKER, M.D., R¢gi~trar, Albany, ::N,• ¥ .... '· ' ' ~ >-\' :~. . . D-EPARTl\fE.N.T. OF LAW. :' - ~· ; ' ' . . . . . ' . THE: ALBANY LAW StHOOI,.-..;The course of ~nstru'Ction consists of three term$; the .first C()iilinencin:g September 5\ the s~cond November 2B, and\ the third March 6; each. term consisting of I2 weeks. The.advantages.for the study of law at AI.banyare as gr~atas. can be f'ound anywher~. ''F~e. law librarY. of.the State is open to students; the General Terms of the Supreme Court of the Third Department, and all the terms ·of the Cou:rt ot App·eals. ·' Tuition,:.$so eacntem:i, in advance.; $:t3o each y(!ar, in advance. For information address . . P'ReF:. It'ORACE E; SMITH, LL.D.; .Albany,~ .. ¥~ DUDLEY OB:SERVATORV .. . . . . . ' .- . ' . ' - . . t: This Department of the UBiversity is located at Albany, and is devoted especially to Astrpnomy and Meteorology. For in.formation address . . : · · PRoF. :r;.EWIS BOSS, .Albany~~· Y- .. t'· r , · ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. ALBA: NY,. N. ¥ ....... For iJ:lfcmnation apply to PRoF. WILLIS G. 'l'UCitE~~· ~M. D~ ·. .. ''<4', · .. ·. ;_ ,·.;· ' ·, '· •. , <•, ·••. ,·' •.·; . ',• ,. · .. \· ' ... ~ ',\ ' ·. ' .·.· :'.· ' . I ,'' .'· '·\'

ADVERTISEMENTS. FINE CONFECT'IONS, BON BONS AND CIIOCOL1\TES. Also fine line of Fancy Goods and Bonhoniere:-;. 35 NORTH PEARL STREET, ALBANY,. N. Y. Branch 863 Rroadway. B. DEKLYN, l\bnager. T . ROJAN S'TEAJ\I Li\l1NDRY·, IIS SOUTJ-1 CENTRE STREET. The undersigned has had eleven years experience 111 the Laundry business in Troy, and the produc- tion ot this Lau nch·~r is second to none. ALL IVORK GUARA1VTEED Equal in ez•ny rcsj>al to Troy 1Vo r!.·. Giz·e us a I r/a !. El\l~IOTT HO\VD, Proprietor. LEVI CASE & co., Copper, Brass and Sheet Iron Works. STEAl\1, IIOT \YATER, AKD FURNACE HEATI::\'G, A SPECIALTY. sl\IITII & TALBOT, ARrfiS1'S AND PHOl'OGRAPHERS. sos (new No.) State St., Schenectady, N.Y. Ilave been the Class Photographers to 13 Graduating Classe~, including Union. Students are welcome. Professors' I>ort raz\ts and C oll('/.tc J Tic-zt•s cons/a lll~v Oll /taJld. - - -- --~ - --------~-- - 0 TTO KLEEJ\!AN, 2I5 State Street, ~~'ch!'JU'rlat(l', 1V. 1~, German & French Caterer & Confectioner. \Vecldings, Parties and Festivals furnished with Cream, Jellies, Charlotte de Russe, Neapolitan Creams, Roman Punch, Biscuit (~lace, Plum Pudding ( ;Jace, Tutti Frutti and Fancy <)range and Nougat Pyramids in all styles, Chicken and Lobster Salads, Boned Turkey, Capon and Larded Game, etc., etc. TRA VELERS.J' JOHN T. JOI-INSON'S Merchant Tailoring House, NO. 35 MAIDEN 1-LtlNE, (Next door to the \Vindsor.)

ADVERTISEMENTS. FINE CONFECTIONS, BON BONS AND ~CIIOCOLATES. Also fine line of Fancy Goods and Bonbonieres. 35 NORTH PEARL STREET, ALBANY,. N. Y. Branch 863 Broadway. B. DEKL YN, 1\Ianager. TROJAN STEAM LAUNDRY, II5 SOUTH CENTRE STREET. The undersigned has had eleven yean; experience 111 the Laundry business in Troy, and the produc- tion of this Laundry is second to none. ALL lVORK GUARANTEED Equal ill every respect to Troy T¥ork. Gi~·e us a trial. EMMOTT HG,VD, Proprietor. LEVI CASE & co., Copper, Brass and Sheet Iron Works. STEAM, HOT WATER, AND FURNACE HEATING, A SPECIALTY. =====- ---=--:::-:--=-=-==--=---.:._-_-_ ~:.....:.=-==---=--=--- -_- _:_ --::: --=--~- - ---- - - - --~ - -=-=-~=--- -:-:- _::·- -------=-= SMITH & T ALBO'T, ARTIS1'S AND PH01'0GRAPHERS. 505 (new No.) State St., Schenectady, N. Y. Have been the Class Photographers to 13 Graduating Classe~, including Union. Students .are welcome. Professors' Portraits and Colleg-e rie·ws COJtstalltly OJl hand. ------------------~ ---- --- -------~- ----------------- ---- 0 TTO KLEEMAN, 2£5 State Stred, Schcnatady, 1V. 1~, German & French Caterer & Confectioner. Weddings, Parties and Festivals furnished with Cream, Jellies, Charlotte de Russe, Neapolitan Creams, Roman Punch, Biscuit Glace, Plum Pudding Glace, Tutti Frutti and Fancy Orange and Nougat Pyramids in all styles, Chicken and Lobster Salads, Boned Turkey, Capon and Larded Game, etc., etc. TRAVELERS.\ --- -- ------ - ------- ----------. ------------ JOHN T. JOHNS~ON'S Merchant Tailoring House, NO,, 35 MAIDEN LANE, (Next door to the \Vindsor.)

_).' ,. '· 1' f .. ' 1:. AD VER T'ISEMENTS. FRANKLIN H. JANES, 57 STATE STREET, ARCHITECT, ROBERT T. MOIR, . (Successor to John Gilmour,) - DEALER I~-- Books, StatioQery and Paper Hangings, 333 State and IJ6 Centre St., Schenectady, N. r. Agency for Anchor, Inman and Hamburg-American Trans-Atlantic Steamship Lines. STANFORD BLOCK. E. W. BOUGHTON ·& CO., MANUFACTURING HATTERS, TROY, N.Y. GLOVES. SATCAELS. BOSTON ONE-PRICE CLOTHING HOUSE, No. 320 State Street, FINE CUSTOM WORK. Schenectady, N. 1~ A FINE LINE OF Ready-tnade Clothing and Gents' Furnishing Goods. Next to A:r.a.e:rioan ::E:XJ?ress O:f:fioe. Go TO L. T. CLUTE'S, 227 State Street1 For the Correct Styles in Hats. Also a full line of .Tru1zks, Bags, Gloves, Unzbrellas, &c., &c. Ao·ent fot· DuNL.\P CELEBRATED HAT. b ALBANY, N. Y. D. R. SMITH, 505 UNION STREET, Resident Dentist . CROWN WoRK A SPECIALTY. ~Call and secure my Special Rates to Students. .ARCADE RESTAURANT, GEORGE C. ZEIZER, Proprietor. JaPti!ts +8uppliad + in+ iFGada +I all. Full Stock of Wines, Liquors and Cigars. HENRY McMULLEN & CO., (Successors to ANDREW' McMULLEN,) Wholesale and Retail Dealers in Coal, Wood, Lime, Cen1ent, CALCINED PLASTER, MAsoN's HAIR, ETc., 306, 308 and JIO Unz'on and 209, 2I I and 213 Dock Sts. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. J • H. DEVINE, Sole Agent for Stacy, Adams & Co. Gentlemen's Finest Foot-Wear, Elegant Walking Shoes, and Evening Full Dress Shoes. Sole agent for Edwin C. Burt, Ladies fi he foot-wear. DEVINE, cor. State & N. PeaT! Sts., ALBA~Y, N.Y. 111az'l orders prompt!y attended to.

------------- ---~-----------------~--------------- VoL. XII. UNION COLLEGE, APRIL, r889. No.7· LIT,ERARV. The \Electra\ of Sophocles at the Lyceum Theatre, New York. It is not uncotntnon for us to think of a Greek play as sornething dry, uninteresting, ~'deep\ and difficult, and few theatrical managers would have the hardihood to place one on the bo~n·cls. Nor would any of our \Stars\ nndertake to \do\ the country, asan Oedipus, an Ajax, or an Electra. Nevertheless, Greek plays have ap- peared upon the stage, fro1n tirne to titne, both in Europe and Atnerica, and in the latter country, at least, the perfonnances have invariably been attended with success. This is a significant fact and should go far to convince the thoughtful that the dratna of the Greeks, like that of Shakespeare, contains within itself son1ething pennanent and lasting-sornething indeed that appeals to hun1anity at large, and is for that reason of n1ore than purely local interest. It has been abun- dantly proven in Gennany, France and England, that a n1asterpiece of Aescby lus could tnove the n1en and wotnen of to-clay, and it has been shown tnore than once in An1erica that a '' suc- cessful Sophocles does not necessarily presuppose a Periclean Athens.\ In the n1:onth of May, r88r, the' • Oedipus Tyrannus\ was acted about six ti1nes in the original Greek, by persons con- nected with Harvard University. Nothing was ornitted that tnight conspire to render the per- fonnance perfect in detail. 1:'he result was all that could be hoped for or desired by the tnost ardent adtnirer of things Greek. An English version of the play had been provided for those who could not follow the original, and it has been reported that the audience ( nu~nbering a thousand at a tin1e) was held '' spell-bound, fro1n first to laf?t.\ '' The play is over. 1~here is a 11101nent's silence, and then the theatre nngs this., • with the 1 \ app anse. san1e play Not long · after acted in a French transJation at the Theatre Francais, in Paris. The part of Oedipus \vas taken by a l\1. Mounet-Sully, of\vhom it has been retnarkecl that no actor of n1odern tirnes has so successfully united \ all the qualities Tequirecl for a living in1personation of the Sophoclean Oedipus, in the entire series of n1oods and range of passions \Vh ic h · the part cotn prises.\ The test \V£lS peculiarly severe, in consequence ofthe influence \Vh ich had been previously exerted upon the French classic dran1a by such writers a5 Corneille and Voltaire ; yet the\ success\ of the perforn1- ance received abundant confinna.tion at the hands of the critics. The representation of the \·l\j2x\ of Sophocles at Can1 bridge, England, in :~882, is referred to by Mr. Jebh as a ne\v revelation of n1.eaning and po\ver, and certainly Greek co mecly lost nothing- in our esti n1ation, vvhen the '• Acbarnians \ of Aristophanes \vas presented about tvvo years ago by the under- graduates of the U niversit_y of Pennsylvania, in the Acaclen1_y of J\1usic at Philadelphia. It is not \vonderfully stll'prising therefore that the recent perfonnance of the \ Electra\ or Sophocles at the Lyceun1 rrheatre in New York, of which the undersigned ·\vas so fortunate as to he a \vitness, proved to be a tnost interesting occasion. The Dra7Jzati.s Personae \sere taken by n1en1bers of the An1erican Acaden1y of the Dratnatic Arts. The text \vas recited in English instead of Greek and tnany of the appurtenances and parapher~1alia of the ancient stage-setting were discardccL The high-soled cothurnus and the huge n1.ask 'vith its lofty ti8ra -vvere not needed, and the fetnale parts Vv·ere acted by -woinen. Indeed, the ancient regulation cotnpell- ing ten1ale characters to be rendered by n1en, would be, in our clay, even in the reproduction

ro8 THE CONCORDIENSIS. of Greek plays, always tnore honored in the breach than in the observance. Such 01nissions and alterations, however, as were tnade at the Lyceu1n on this occasion, w hHe they served adn1irably to enhance the feasibility of the undertaking, did not ·detract fron1. the artistic excellence of the perfonnance. The Greeks were nothing, if not artistic, and would them- selves have been the first to alter, if alteration were rendered desirable by the claitns of pro- priety and good taste. In fact, the performance was especially creditable fron1 an artistic point of view. The scenery, the stage, the chorus and the actors were arranged and disposed in a 1nanner deserving of the highest encon1iun1. Miss Hamilton's conception ofElectra was truly Greek, and she played her part with spirit and dignity. The high-born Grecian 1naiden, un- ceasingly lamenting the cruel 1nurder of her father, and goaded on to rage by the insults heaped upon his tne-tuory ; invoking the ven- geance of Heaven, and the wiping out of the foul stain upon her House; praying for the return of . her long absent brother upon whose strength alone she could rely to secure the retribution which honor and conscience demanded ; driven at last to despair by a fictitious report of his death, and tnaddened by her 1nother's ill- concealed joy at the news-all this was well sustained, though with an utterance sornetitnes indistinct <tnd gestures that 1night have been less violent in places. The subsequent xecog- nition too of Orestes by his sister, was deeply affecting and keenly appreciated by the specta- tors. There was nothing unusually striking about the acting of the other Inetnbers of the dialogue, if that of Mr. Platt who played the 7tazoay(Ji)yos be excepted. He was, perhaps, the 111ost natural and nzodern of the five actors, and on that account, at least, cotntnended lii1nself . · particularly to his New York audience, what- ever would have been said of hitn by the critics who sat, in days long gone by, in the great theatre of Dionysos on the south side of the Athenian Acropolis. His delivery of the lines descriptive of the Pythi:-tn chariot race,-one of the finest things in Greek Jratnatic writing,- procured for hirn the hearty plaudits of his hearers. The chorus of Argive tnaiclens attired in the conventional xz roav and ,£pd.rzor were grace- fully posed and .added 1nuch to the general artistic effect, if not to the special interest of the play. Their slow and soiDetnn dances, suited to the dit·ge-like nature of the choral odes, 1nay have appeared sotnewhat ]ack-a-daisical and tneaningless to the rnoden1 eye. But it tnust be retnernbered that the ,chorus in the \ Electra'' is tnore than usually subordinated to the tnain action, and has little to do but to chant back, in sympathetic refrain, the woes of the ~tridae and the n1iseries of Electl\a. Its custornaty function as interpreter a11d ideal spectator is not pronounced, and the tones of dolorous pitch cotnposed for the oc~asion by Misg Collins, though adn1irahly in ·keeping with the spirit of the dnuna, had a tendency to weary those whose hearts were not readily stirred by the catas- trophes of the House of Pelops. And indeed, to persons wholly unacquainted with the history of Greek tragedy, with the sirnp1icity of its aitn and its religious Ineaning, the _play may have appeared to be too rnucb in one strain and per- haps a little tedious in consequence. The appre- ciative spectator, however, holding in view the religious eletnent that n1ade Greek tragedy so itnportant a factor in Greek life, and re1ne1nbering that the tnain object of the tragic poet was to portray the religious idea with artistic si1nplicity and directness, could only have regarded this presentation of the '' Electra \ of Sophocles in the light of a valuable contribution to the cause of education, literature and art. _ The ancient dratna, like the Inodern, assun1es at once a deeper interest for us through the acttlal placing of the action before our eyes. The plot of the '' Electra \ of Sophocles deals with events following the tnurder of King Agametnnon, on his return fron'1 Troy, by his wife and her paratnour Aegisthus. The action begins with the return of Orestes, the king' s son, f:rotn Pho cis, whither (according to Sophocles) he had been sent for safe keeping by his sister Electra, at the tirne of the n1urder, sotne fifteen or twent)' ye£lrs before. In his co1npany are his friend Pylades and an old servant of his father, to whose fostering care, as 7tcaoay(Ji)yos, Orestes owes his education and

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 109 ·. plated by the poet. The death of Aegisthus ends (in Sophocles) the troubles of the House of much of that patriotic and filial feeling which spurs hin1. on to the execution of the cotnmand oi Apollo. The divine decree, which ordains nothing less than the death of Clytetnnestra and Aegistlius and the re-establishrnent of Agameln- non's children in their ancestral ho1ne, has a1ready been tnade known to Orestes through the oracle at Delphi. .Orestes, obedient to the decree, carries out his design by means of a stratagem. He and the 7ta.zoayaoyos approach the palace of the Pelopidae at Mycenae (or, accord- ing t~ sotne authorities, at Argos,) disguised as messengers, and bringing word of Orestes' death together with the urn supposed to contain his ashes. Electra is all but crushed by the news. Clytemnestra, on the contrary, barely conceals her joy at what she con- ceives to be her future security, for it was through the hand of Orestes alone that she had cause to fear the execution of Heaven's vengeance and the Ineting out of the just penalty .of her critne. Orestes in his disguise professes to come frotn Strophius, a friend of Aga111emnon, living in Pho- cis. He gives the urn to Electra who weeps over it. He then n1akes hirnselfknown to her and with her assistance gains access to the palace and the queen. . The audience are not permitted to wit- ness the killing of Clytetnnestra; but (in the Greek theatre) the corpse was rolled upon the stage in an ekkvkA:r 11 la or t~CR7r5rpa-a serni-circular tnachine en1ployed to present interiors to the view of the imtnense audiences assernbled in the Dionysian theatre ; on the n1odern stage, it is only necessary to throw open the doors of the palace, and Clytetnnestra is seen lying . dead within. At this 1noment, Aegisthus, who has been absent, re- turns, and the body which he had supposed to be that of Orestes is uncovered. Orestes is standing beside it and comtnands Aegisthus to enter the palace, where he is put to death upon the body of the queen. Thus the rule, nee coram populo pueros Jl:fedea trucz'det, is observed in each case, and the retribution is thereby tnade tnore perfect. To have represented the killing of Clytetnnestra and Aegisthus on the stage, in view of the audience, would not only have offended the artistic ta~te of the Greeks, but tnight have gained sy1npathy for the guilty, a result not contetn- Pelops. The '' Electra'' of Euripides and the ,., Choe- phori \ of Aeschylus are founded on the satne legend as the '' Electra \ of Sophocles. But while the three tragedies treat substantiaily the sarne thetne, they do so frotn different stand- points. The play of Euripides is not in the serious vein of the other two. In Aeschylus, the subject is viewed fro1n the side of the Celestials, as is the case with this dratnatist generally. In Sophocles, it is seen tnore in its hutnan aspect. The critnes and calatnities of the fatnily of the Atridae are, in Aeschylus, the workings of a re[entless fate which has its origin in the wrath of the gods at critnes cotntnitted, but which dis- regards, in great 111easure, the idea of justice. Clytetnnestra tnurders her husband through the influence of the N en1esis that drives on the adulteress to add critne to critne, and Orestes kills his mother at the instigation of Apollo, but is imt11ediately punished by the Eumenides, because of his unfilial act. The decrees of Heaven work above and independently of man's reason and conscience, and 1nan is more of a victim in his wickedness than a responsible being. Sophocles has brought Aeschylus down to earth, and though less grand and terrible, is in one sense tnote hutnan. Man is tnore of a responsible being in the Electra than in the Choejhori. Orestes does indeed come from Phocis, like an arrow, as has been said, from the bow ofPhoebus, but, though executing the direct· order of the Archer god at Delphi, he acts from a sense of right and duty, forvvhich he is rewarded, not punished. There is no retnorse, as in Aeschylus; no pursuit by the Furies ; but Orestes and Electra are re-established whole and happy in the home of their fathers. The chief interest of the\ Electra,\ however, is not so tnuch in the dootn detennined for the guilty as in the character of the heroine herself. In Aeschylus, the grand idea is the consumtnation of Heaven's vengeance by the deaths of Clytem- nestra and Aegisthus, and this idea is paratnount throughout the Oresteian trilogy ; in Sophocles, though the final horror is elaborately worked up, it is rather upon the efrect vvrought in Electra's mind

t, . . ;,'-' IIO THE CONCORDIENSIS. through the action of the play that th_e attention of the spectator is concentrated. Electra's feel- ings are set forth in full and our interest is absorbed in her unhappy lot, the resolution with which she endures it, and her final relief. Her lamentations, so bitter and prolonged, evoke our sincerest pity. They spring fro~n an abhorrence of her rnother's critne, frotn her hatred of Aegisthus, vvho has been the n1eans .of dis- honoring he1~ father's n1e:1nory, and fro111. hope deferred of the return of her brother upon \Vho.tn alone she can depend to wipe out the double stain that n1ars the sacredness ot the dcnnestic hearth. She resolveF to sl.ay Aegisthus with her own hand when her gentler sister Chrysothetnis declines to aid her. T'he resolve is a noble one, because dictated by I-Ieaven ; it has its origin in her exalted conception of the sanctity of hotne and her sense of that hon1e dis- graced. She is no n1ere victitn of a blind fatality, but a l1igh 1nincled Attic 111aiden contending for right and honor. When she recognizes her brother, her excessi\re sorrow gives place to un- bounded joy and the depth offeeling is percepti- ble in this rebound of etnotion, 1nore fully than at any point in the play; yet her resolution to see that strict justice is 111eted out to the authors of her woe is only whetted, now that the 1neans of accotnplishing her purpose are at hand. This unflinching severity in Electra's atiitucle, like many other characteristics of the Sophoclean dran1a, is, no cloubt, e1nphatically unchristian. natdov, cl 60i v r: Is, OL7t;1/jv is her unfeeling excla- Ination fron1 without as she listens to her 111other's death agonies \vithin the palace. Nothing could be n1ore harsh than this, and it is difficult for us to ~yn1pathize vvith such a situation. But the doctrine of Greek tragedy, though rese1nbling in 111any respects the teachings of the old Dispensa- tion, has but little in con1n1on ·with those of the ne:vv. With the Greek, the idea of retribution, slow- but inevitable and altogether just, is upper- most. Electra is no uncertain £tn<l hesitating I-Iarnlet goaded on by an incorporeal spirit to do a distasteful deed. Iler beloved father tnust be avenged and vindicated at any cost, and those who have been \vronged through his death n1ust be righted. It is a law of the heart, as well as the lavv of God, says Sophocles, 'tncl if Orestes executes the law, Electra interprets it. Any sign o[ wavering or weakness on her part, therefore, would only n1ar the nobility of her character as seen in this light, and be inconsistent with the poet's design in tracing the course of divine justice to its accotnplishnlent. S. G. A. --- --- - -- ----- Chap~el Attendance. An1erican collegiate education has always been essentially, in intent at least. Christian education. \ Christo et Ecclesz\ae\ is the n1otto of the oldest and the greatest of Arnerican Universities. Yale has exercised a rigidity of religious requiretnents an1ounting practicaHy and designedly ahnost to deno1Jzinationalism. Princeton, Atnherst, Darttnouth, Williarns and Ha1nilton are distinctively Christian in their teachings, sotne of thetn even to sectarianistn Union proclain1s herself broadly, but not dog- tnaticallv for Christ. The kind and the degrees of religious require ... 1nents have varied n1aterially with ti1ne and the individual tendencies of the institution. The Union student of fifty years ago 1nade chapel twice a day. The tnorning service was at six o'clock and he had a recitation in1tnediately • following before he could get to his breakfast. He was a rugged n1an, too, and bas -vvorn well \vith the world. Possibly his systetnatic begin- ning of his daily work in college, has contributed sotnewhat to his after success. T'he Union undergraduate of to-day attends hut a single chapel service daily, and that but five days in the week with a liher.al allowance of absences. The hour is later and he is enabled to breakfast before the service, still he curses the sun11nons that breaks his n1orning slurnbers. His self ass tuned superiority exernpts hitn fron1 a half approach to the rigid discipline that governed his father as a collegian. We do not presutne to say that our fathers were invariably willing in their response to the chapel sununons, but we are certain that the present widely prevail- ing attitude toward chapel attendance is a growth of recent years. The tendency of the tirne in collegiate educa- tion, ever present, though 1nanjfest in a greater or less degree, is toward the elective syste1n.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. l I I The widest advocacy of this systen1 has not spared even the chapel. In June, 1886, con1- pulsory chapel attendance ceased to be a require- nlent at H~rvard. The scherne see1ned to work well for a ti1ne, but the recent 1neeting of the Board of Overseers deen1ed it wise to again cotn• pel ch.apel attendance. 'The n1any lesser colleges that are etnulous of ·Harvard's exarnple will doubtless now incline to a n'lore rigid observance of an ancient and confirrned precedent. So far as we know, there has never been a radical reaction against the chapel require1nent at Union. It has merely been 1nodified fron1 time to titne, to confortn to the varying circum- stances, but has never been radically changed. The gt·eat fact, at· least, of Christianity, ha5 always been dealt with as an essential in a liberal education, as a necessity in dealings with 1nen ; for Union has always striven to be a teacher of hutnan nature. Holding to a certain degree of conservatistn in educational requiretnents, Union has said in effect at least, if not in words, that the religious nature of the student if not willing to be r:ninistered to, tnust he tninistered to by force. But the exact atnount of religious benefit de-. rived fl:oni. the daily service rnay be estin1ated at a tninitnun by a great, perhaps even the greate1· part of the students. Still, if there is any such benefit, it is pure and unalloyed. There are few enticetnents to draw us to chapel. We do not listen there to Orphic strains, nor do we nestle in cushioned seats. Music that is at least inconstant and seats that are proverbially . hard are our tnorning portion. There are occasional words ofwisdotn, but aside frotn these the set-vice is for sotne bare religion, but for the 1nore part, we think, bare duty. Still this duty, even for the irreligious student, is sufficient to justify the attendance. So long as we r:naintain the supretnacy of curricuhlln work we rnay, if rnerely for worldly reasons, 1naintain the fitness of an early n1orning service. To tna11y, the chapel service is the fuHilltnent pf an actual religious reqniretnent. To the writer of this aTticle, its greatest value is that it starts hitn . off dutifully and systetnaticall y in his n1orning work. It has habituated hitn to early Tising. It takes hin1 to an early breakfast. It awakens hin1 to a systernatic diischarge of the day's duties. He would advocate chapel attendance, if it were merely for its prac6cal training to habits of industry and of healthful r~egularity. J· 1. B. A Strange Contract*-A Mere Plot. BY GEO. COMSTOCK BAKER. :CHAPTER I. Wilson Bainfret and I bad been chtnns at college-which rneans a great deal. We had been brothers in the satne fraternity-· which n1eans a great deal n1ore. He was a very gentlemanly looking young fellow of about twenty-three. He had what grandfathers call a good head ; it evinced a good solid character, and a great deal of natural ability. He was of rnediu1n size but weB put together, with broad c best and shoulders, and tnuscular legs. His hair and eyes were brown and in the latter there was a sparkle of latent fun. He had been what is terrned a ~' good fellow\ at college, but that was not his only clai1n to one's friendship. Sorne rnen are good fellows but good for nothing else ; lazily good natured, they are good fellows sirn ply because that is the easiest way to get along. Wil had his enernies of course-every 1nan of . decided character rnust have; but they were tnen, as a rule, vvhom it was 1nore creditable to have for enemies than for fTiencls. He was very frank ancl honest and talked freely with his friends of all his doings; excepting only one subject. He never spoke of his feminin.e friends, of which he had tnany, except in the tnost general tenns, and then it was ahvays to &ay sotnething good of thetn. If he added another glove to his collection, no one knew frotn hitn who the fair owner was, any tnore than they did who had given hitn the little pink slipper, or the fan of lemon and orange ostrich feathers. I re1nen1ber one dgty one of the fellows came into his rootn to borrow a white lawn tie to wear to a ball. Wil was busy dressing and told hitn *Copyright I88g by Geo. Comstock Baker. All rights reserved.

, ' r r2 TfiE CONCORDIENSIS. to look in one of the draw.ers of the dresser. While run:unaging around he found a scarlet elastic fastened vvith a cluster of daisies in silver, which he held up with a laughing, \Where in the devil did you get this?\ to the great atnuse- tnent of the fellows. ''Where did you find it?\ asked Wil parrying one question with another. \Why here in the drawer.\ \ I've been looking all over for it, it is the new annlet I bought to keep tny shirt sleeve in place,\ he said as be deftly snapped it on his ann with a comical grin ; and that was all that we could ever get out of hitn on the subject. As a consequence of this reticence he had a host of friends a1nong the sex to who1n perfect confidence is of tnuch greater in1portance than it is to rnen. We had agreed before graduation to co1nn1ence the study of law together in a quite fa1nous law school in the city where he lived. He studied law because he can1e of a long line of e1ninent iurists, and had had it literally bred into hitn ; and I because there did not see1n to be anything else to do. There was no good business opening for tne, I did not like the life of a doctor ; and as for being a 1ninister ; I am afraid that I could have hardly filled the bill. CHAPTER II. THE SAPPHIRE SET IN SILVER. As soon as I got fairly settled in ~ny nevv quarters, I hastened to see Wil for I felt that indescribable uneasiness ancl unnaturalness, which a change of living and of surroundings · always produces. I had no difficulty in finding the house, a large brown stone mansion on one of the wealthy streets. A neat white-capped \girl\ (she was over forty) infonned 1ne that '' Mr. Wil was in the library.\ He heard tny voice and called out, '' Co1ne in, old boy, I've been expecting you.\ He ju1nped up fro111 the desk at which he \Vas working and gave 1ne the grip. Then followed the usual questions as he lounged in an easy chair with an interrogation point in each eye. So we sat and exchanged vacation experi- ences, talked of the future and tnade our plans for over an hour. At last when we had discharged the greater part of our batteries of news, he ·suddenly ex- claiined, '' :Qh, by the way, I've got sotnething- new to show you.\ Ile always \ Had sotne- thing new to show you.\ It 1night be a new song, or an etching, or even a new style of pen- holder; but whatever it was it was new. But this tirne it was sornething of tnore importance. He took out his pocketbook, and extracted fro111 it a wad of fi11e tissue paper, which he began carefully to unfold; at last he produced a tnag- n.ificent sapphire. \ Isn't that a beauty?\ he said, as he handed it over for lDY inspection. It certainly was a fine stone and I said so, but I could not help thinking that there was so1uething behind it, so I asked, \Ahern but may I congratulate you?\ '' Congratulate n1e ?\ he repeated in a puzzled tnanner and then as he understood, \No it is for tnyself.\ '~ Oh,\ I said sin1ply, \ So you are go1ng to \Vait a while?\ \Yes I guess it will be a devil of a while,\ he answered with a co1nical look of despair. '' I was just draughting the design for the setting when you carne in,\ he continued as he took a bit of bristol board fro1n the desk. '' I a1n going to have it set in old silver.\ I examined the design, a quaint antique conceit, which he had handled very well. \It will n1ake a very pretty ring,\ I said as I handed it back. Wil had always had a passion for draughting, es- pecially designs for jewelry, and the greater part of what he wore in that line had been made up after his own sketches. The deep cathedral chin1es of the clock on the 1nantel n1ade Wil start and pull out his watch, \ By George,\ he exclain1ed,\ I did not think that it was anywhere near five o'clock. Have you got anythii1g to do to-night?\ '' No,\ I answered, \ I was just going to ask you if you had anything on hand for this evening.\ \Well then I'll you what we will do. You cotne down to the jewelers with 1ne, it isn't but a few blocks around the corner, and then eo1ne back and take supper with Dolly and I and \ \Dolly I exclaimed. '' Why don't you know Dolly?\ \No. How should I know Dollv ?\ >/

THE 'CONCORDIENSIS. 113 \Why she is tny cousin. Put on your top coat and I'll tell you about her as we walk down town. CHAP 'if E R I II 0 '' You see everyone vvent to Europe this year,'' Wil began as we en1.erged frotn the shadow of the large vestibule and stood on the steps putting on our gloves, \I say everyone, you know that all the relatives I have are father, Uncle Weston and Aunt Louise, and Dolly.\ He took 111J ann, an old college custorm, and we walked down the street. \ Well, as I said,\ he continued, '' thev \' are the only relatives I have ; so vv-hen they went to Europe they left Dolly with tne. Sl1e is a a pretty little thing and we get along finely together. Of course I don't have to take care of . her 1nuch as Mrs. Agnes looks after her, and does it as well as her own tnother could ; but nevertheless it seetus strange, I feel like a grand- father.\ I laughed at this an.d asked who MTs. Agnes was. It is a strange feature of college life, that while one tnay regard a friend as a brother and know hin1 quite as well ; he knows as a rule, very little of his fan1ily. ''You never saw Mrs. Agnes did you? he asked, \No I answered. \ She is a very uncotntnon person. She is a French lady, I 1nean just what I say lady, for she evidently can1e of a fine fan1ily. She has been in our fatnily as housekeepeT ever since mother died, nearly twenty years ago. There is sotne itnystery connected with her past which she -vvould never tell, and we could never imagine what it was. She is about sixty, I should think, and tnust have been a very pretty wotnan in her day.\ Of course this aroused Tny curiosity and I asked if thet·e was no clew to her past life. \No none whatever; she only receives letters f1on.1 people whotn she has tnet since she has been with us, so there is no clue by that tneans. Whatever her secret is it will probably die with her. I have always irnagined that she belonged to a fine fa:tnily in France and that she eioped or sotnething of the sort and they cast her off, or else that her husband deserted her ; but of course that is pure itnagination on tny part. We have always treated her .as one of the fatnily, but she keeps out of sight a· grea.t deal of the ti1ne, never appearing at the table unless the fan1ily is alone. She has her little suite of roon1s and likes to take her meals there by hersdf. \' Did you learn your French frotn her?\ I asked, for Wil spoke that language ahnost as fluently as he did Englisi1. '' Yes, and she taught tne tna ny other things besides, sketching for instance. She teaches DoHv French and tnusic now.\ , ''Dolly,\ I repeated, \'I an1 getting quite in1- • .r • • '' pahertt to see your 1an· oous1n. ''She will be hotn·e when we get back, so don't get itnpatient,\ laughed Wil as we entered the jeweler's. If was dusk when we returned to the house. We threw off our top coats in the hall and entered the library. The roon1 was dark save for a bright wood fire that blazed in the big open fireplace, shooting little arrows -of light, which seetned to be dashed into glistening slivers against the brass handles of the desk, and a sword hanging upon the wall. The carved heads upon the old oak furniture grinned hideously in the setni-darkness, and the whole roo1n looked eerie in the half-revealing, yellow light. An honest looking old 1nastifl who lay basking upon the hearth, opened his huge, black-lipped jaws, and grinned, while he sounded a lively tattoo on the floor with his tail. He soon ceased this however, and lay quietly watching the fire, giving a profound sigh now and then as so1ne fanner sin of his carne to his n1ind. We stood for a tnornent upon the threshold, watching the play of the firelight, and then walked in towards a big easy chair which was drawn up before the fire. I happened to glance towards it, and saw protruding fro1n its cozy depths a neat little sli ppered foot and slender ankle, which s-vvelled into phunpness and then roughishly hid under a shower of vvhite laces. Wil gave a suggestive cough; I looked up and he beckoned to tne, not thinking that I had seen her. \Isn't she pretty?\ he whispered. I tiptoed up to whe1e I could see into the chair; I never saw a prettier, or a tnore chann- ing picture.

1 ' : ! \., II4 THE CONCORDIENSIS. Nestled cosily in the sleepy leathern depths with her head resting upon one plurnp little ann was Dolly. Her long black hair hung unfastened about her shoulders partly hiding her face~ and glistening in the shifting fire light like strands ot ebon glass. Her cheeks were brown, but not so brown as to prevent the roses of health fro1n bursting into full bloo1n upon their velvet sur- face ; and through her half-parted lips one could see her litHe white teeth. Her longsilky lashes lay upon her cheeks, half shaded by one din1pled hand. \ Asleep,\ whispered Wil, as he seated hhn- self upon the ann of the chair, and bending do-vvn he kissed her full upon the lips. She 1noved a little and 1nade a little sound, n1uch as a kitten purrs when carressed, but did not open her eyes. She rested her head upon his knee and took his hand. \ Dolly, I .want you to 1neet tny friend, Mr. Walters,\ said Wil, with a twinkle in his eye. If she had been 1noved ·by a spring she could not have got out of the chair quicker than she did, and as she stood blushing upon the hearth rug I heard her whisper to Wil, \ You great goose ! Why didn't you tell 1ne that there was sorneone in the roon1 ?\. It was a very trying situation for a young girl, hut she co1nposed herself with wonderful facility, and advancing gave n1e her hand. '' It seems as if I had known you for a long titne Mr. vV alters, I have heard Wil speak of you so often you know,\ she said with a s1nile. I noticed that she wore one of our fraternity pins and spoke of _ the fact, \Oh to be sure,\ she said, glancing down at it with an air of pride. '' Wil gave it to tne on tny last birthday.\ \ Shall I tell how tnany titnes I whipped you? One for each year,\ asked Wil teasingly. \ Oh, you just wait, your birthday co1nes pretty soon now, won't I get even with you ! \ she answered as her black eyes snapped. \ Shall I cotne down and help you?\ I asked, for I liked to hear her talk. \Oh no, lean tnanage hitn alone,\ she stepped slyly up to Wil who was still sitting upon the ann of the chair, and gave hitn a little push which sent hitn into it with undigi1ified haste. ''See how easy )t is,\ she laughed as she ran to ·-- ----------------------- the door. \ Excuse tne, Mr.· Walters, I rnust dress for dinner,\ and she ran lightly up the stairs. ~' She is a great Dolly and no tnistake,,'' laughed Wil after she had gone, \ How the fellows will rave about her when she gets a few years older.\ '' She will be quite a little flirt I itnagipe,\ I observed. '·' No, I don't think that she will ; I think that she will be very popular, but I think that she will stick to one fellow.,\ \You will be rather lonesotne when she :goes away. '' Yes, I wHl,\ he adn1i tted frankly. '' I have not had the least trouble with her since she has been here ; she has not even been ho1nesic.k, or if she has she has not shown it in the least.. She is always jolly and full of fun-and she knows just when to stop.\ '• How old is she?\ \ Just sixteen.\ CHAPTER v. THE CONTRACT. Syn1pathy and pity for anyone in trouble, had • always been strong points in Wil's character, and they were naturally of double strength if the person happened to be a girl ; and they then ascended in direct proportion to her good looks. He enjoyed life thoroughly and wished everyone to have just as 1nuch fun out of it flS he did. So it w&s co1nparatively easy to account for the deep friendship which existed between hi1n and Bessie Willowsby. John Willowsby vvas a very rich n1an ; a speculator, who cared but for t\vo things in this world; his bank account and his natne. He was a hard 1nan, his tenants an_d en1ployees said, who ground down to the last dollar~ If his wheat speculations cau~ed the poor n1an to pay tnore for his bread, he sneered. \ It was not his · fault, he had started in life without a dollar to his na1ne. If they were poor it was their own fault.\ But he had not always been a hard~ hea'rted 1noney-worshipper ; there had been a period in his early life when he had been as generous and noble-hearted a 111an as ever breathed; this was when his lips, which novv only opened in gri1n connnand, had plead his cause in cupid's court where a young girl sat as

T'HE CONCORDIENSIS. l I 5 judge. In those days he was what i,s called a good business rnan, but :h.e ·had not acquired the habit of crushing beneath. t~1e weight .of his gold, all opposition which lay in his path to corn- n1ercial suprernacy. BHt anothex suitor had taken the, pdze ; a very ;handsorrre fellow who knew all oftb.e poetry of love, but who lacked the brains to 111ake his tnodeTate inc()tne rneet his nutnerous bills. John vVillowshy's heart was deeply touched at this defeat for be honestly loved the girL He plunged into business with renewed vigoT and tried to forget his bereave- tnent, for bereavetnent it was to hirn, in the cotnplex t11:ysteries of debit and credit. I-Iis fonuer leniency to his debtors relax:ed, and hard lin~!? began to fonu upon his tnassive face. He n1ade several bold ventures and suddenly found hitnself a very rich tnan. ; but it was a bitter n1ockery. The chink ofgold coui.:l not take the place of the 1rnusic of a wife's voic€. The lines upon his face grew still deeper, luis square javv took on a tnore resolute expression, and there ccune a hard steely glitter into his eyes, like the reflection of.the sun upon leveled rifle barrels. Then sud:denly a star arose upon his horizon. His rival died leaving his widow vvith any muount of indebtedness. He re11ewed his suit and was accepted in sl1eer despair. Then he returned to his old self ; be knew that his wife did not love hin1~ and he detern1ined to win her love by sheer· n1anliness ; then just as suddenly as his star ofbappiness bad arisen, it set ; leaving hin1 in the :;lwful darkness of despair. In two HJ.Onths fronl t11e titne or his tnarriage Bessie was born. It was an e:x:ch.ange of souls, for as one ea tne to take up its allotted period of e:x:istence upon the earth, the other was called to solve the tnysteries of the Great Hereafter. At that hour died John Willows by's belief in a God of Mercy. '' The devil reigns u p()n earth and I will be his aid,\ he tnuttered in tb.at awful hour, and frotn that ti tne he was never known to stuile. He was 11ot outwardly cruel to Bessie for he valued his reputation too tnuch for that. He gave her all the advantages that a rich 1nan's daughter should have, but in his heart he hated her and she knew it. She was a constant ren1inder to hin1 of his successful rival, and he regarded he1· as the cause of her :mother's death. \'You ai··e John Willows by's daughter,\ be said to her often, and he cared not \Yhat she did or what becatne of her as long as she proved a credit to hirn. He :had resoh'ed that she should n1arry a rich 1nan's son and upo11 that account he look·e<T with favor upon her friendship with Wil ; but J~e tnade it very disagreeable for any young m'en of hu1nbTer 1neans vvho h.acl aspira- tions in l1er direction,, and forbade rnany of ithen1 the house. Strangely enough she did not show 1nany traces of this ahuost i:alnnnan life of hate, except that her passions went to ex.tren1es. She €i ther adored or despised. In the ill- school clays, Wil and Bessie ha{l gone through all of the phntses of '' Calf love'' as Finck cans it; and it see1ned to act as an i nocu- lation against any sentitn,ent tenderer than f1·i end- ship in later years. W il knew that Bessie was very pretty, that she had deep blue eyes an<it rich tnasses of light brown hair \Yhi ch gle,unecl golden ilil the sunlight. l-Ie knew that her lips were ·stnaU and red; that she bad a soft, vvann, cosy, 1 itile hand ; that het- feet weQ-e s1nall, and that her a11ldes were tri1n, and that she ]'l~ld a very pretty little way of shovving then1 occ asian- ally; but he never thought of her in any other light than that of a 'rery pretty--well, let 11s say . COUS111. He \Ran over to see Bessie,., very often. l-Ie told her his plans~ and she gave hin1 a. little won1aniy advice novv and then, and twitted h.itn about h1s girl friends ; while he (liscussed the good and bad qualities of her adn1irers, £lnd helped l1er to circu1n vent her fatber \vhen the chance offered. They vvent to balls t(}gether when they could not go vvith anyone else, and altogether it was a pretty clear case of PlR tonic friendship. The :fh·st thing Will did when his ring was finished was to take it over to shovv it to Bessie. She carne down in a very becotning little blue dressing sack with a girdle of ribbon, looking particularly sweet and rosy. \ Good n1orning, sir I\ she said, as she en.tered very theatrically, bowing and s111iiing as if she were a<:ldressing a very distinguished n1ai\l. \ Howdy,\ said \'Vil as he held out his hand. She took .it and as she did so she snatched the

\ • r r 6 THE CONCORDIENSIS. pin out of his scarf, a little gold bug, with an , opal body and ruby head ; and seating herself in the corner of the sofa proceeded to fasten it in the front of her dressing sack which was pinned together w itl1 lace pins. \Just vvhat I wanted,\ she said, as she sur- veyed her swelling figure cornplacently, and then looked up into his face, \Thanks.\ over her shoulder and around her waist so that her head rested upon his shoulder, and bending his head looked down into her face. He expected that she would Hinch but she rett 1rned his gaze steadi1y and a tri:fle defiantly. He bent \Well [ like that,'' exclaim.ed Wil, as he seated hi1nself upon the ann of the sofa, \ Give :i , his head lower, lower, expecting that she would withdravv fron1 the contract every ,mor:nent. Suddenly he sprang to his teet and began to talk about the weather. The n1aid had entered with a card. 111 e 1n y pin . '=' '' I wont do it, you have got lots of thern, and I need this one to fasten n1y sack together with. Where is your daisy pin, and the diatnond one., and the skull?\ Wil did not answer and she continued, '\Given thetn to sotne girl, I sup- pose, well it serves you right, now you can go without. 0 h, what a pretty ring!\ she ex- clain1ed, as &he caught Wil's hand, \ Take it off and let 1ne see it.\ Wil handed it to her and as he did so he re- gained possession of his pin. She was too busy to resent so she tnerel y placed her hand over the place where i1t had been fastened. \ It's an awfully sweet ring,\ she said, as she held it up to the light, \ I suppose it is for n1e,\ with on arch stnile. '' Well h~n~dly, what do you want, you little pig? You have got four rings already.\ \Yes I know, but I want this one too.\ \ Oh, really, well I will sell it to you seeing that I a1n hard pressed fqr funds. ~' How 1nuch do you want?\ she asked as she extracted her purse, \I have got seven dollars, a button hook, three postage sta1nps, and some satnples.\ '' I could 11.ot take that, but as I see that you really want' the ring I will sell it to you for fifty kisses.\ Wil expected that this would close the ~liscussion and that she would throw the ring at hitn for his irnpudence. But she evidently read his thoughts, and knew that he. was.' to use a technical pht·ase; \ bluffing\ ; so she said in a defiant tone as she looked hin1 straight in the eye, \I will take you up.\ Now Wil was in a pickle ; but he put on a ln·ave front and tried the last resort. '' All right, I am to have one every day and I will take the first one now.\ He put one ann \Oh pshaw,\ said Bessie petulantly, \I 1'. ,, don't want to see hin1. 1'11 have to dress and everything.\ ''Who is it?\ asked Wil. \Mr. Allsonby.\ \ W eli, I don't want to see hi1n either,\ he exclai1ned, \I'll go out of the side door through the library,\ he said as they passed through the heavy portieres which divided that roon1 frotn the drawing rootn. ''No, don't go. I have got son1etJ1ing to tell you. Just sit here in the library and read the papers until he goes; he won't stay very long.\ '' All right,\ he answered, and Bessie ran up- stairs to put on a waist.\ Allsonby belonged to a certain class of 1nen whose eyes, like the ruby glass used by the photographer, are non-actinic. The pure, white light of Heaven was sifted when it passed his , eyes. It lost all of the Heq;venly blues, the soft yellows and violets, the cool, refreshing green. The light which passed into his soul was the scorching, glaring, red light oflust. He openly boasted of his ntunerous laisotzs and he had pro- bably co1npron1ised 1nore wotnen than any other 1nan in the city. I-Ie neither respected purity or believed that anyone possessed it; and the rnost innocent gesture, look or word was used by him to confinn his theory. Yet he was a society 1nan and was received everywhere, partly on account of his wealth, and partly because he possessed, in a retnarkable degree, one of the first essentials of an accomplished roue, personal tnagnetistn. Girls, who in his absence tnentioned his nan1e with loathing, vvould when this strong influence of his was exercised, sub- mit to, and perhaps even enjoy his caresses. He had upon one occasion rna de sotne suggestive retnarks at the club, about Dolly's staying at

THE CONCORDIENSIS. I 17 Wil's ; and Wil, who had chanced to overhear hitn, bad caught hi rn by the throat and choked the most abject apology out of hin1. So it was perfectly natural that they did not care to tneet. Wil sat in .the library for son1e tin1e with a paper before hirn, but he was not reading. He vvas wondering what the outcotne of that very unique contract, which he considered half seriously and half jokingly, would be. Suddenly he becatne aware of a little scuffle ' in the next rootn and heard a panting screatn fro1n Bessie. He sprang to his feet and tore aside the curtains just in tirne to catch her in his anns. Behind her was Allsonby, who recoiled • at this unexpected apparition; his heavy sodden face distorted with rage and baffled passion. , Wil stood with the girl in his arn1s and gave hitn qne look. Tb.e fellow shrank fi~o.tn that blazing gaze and slunk away~ while Bessie clung to hi.m as a child awakened frotn a nighttnare clings to its tnother. \Did he hurt you Bessie?\ asked Wil, anxiously. \No-not physically,\ she sobbed. \Vil bent and lifted her in his anns as if she was a baby, carried her to the sofa and held her upon his knee and petted her until she lay quiet and contented, but weary frotn nervous exhaus- tion in his arn1s. Fron\1 that tin1e dated their love for each other. That one incident was the tneans of bringing out latent forces which years n1ight not have developed. 'Whoever claitn's a 111an's protection clain1s his love by the itnplied confidence ; and what greater blessing to a won1an than a strong tnan's ann in ti1ne of need? CHAPTER VI. AFTER CLOUDS, SUNSHINE. After this things \\Vent on very sn1oothl y for severaltnonths. But although nothing of itnpor- tance happened, there \Vas a gradual change. Wil and I devoted ours~lves strictly to business hours,. and becatne -vvell grounded in the princi- ples of law, and also grew to be closer friends- if that were possible. I spent a great deal of tny titne at Wil's, talking law with hitn if he was at hotne ; and when he was not, which happened to be the case very often, as he spent the greater part of his leisure tin1·e at Bessie's, I found it very pleasant :to sit and chat vvith Dolly in front of the big- fire in the libl'ary where I had first seen her. She was gro:vving older~ one could easily see that, but each dayr seetned only to add new channs. She had 1nade won- derfui progress in her tnusic under Mrs. Agnes' patient and skillful instruction, and sang chann- ingly. Altogether I preferred to spend an evening alone with her than wit11 n1ost of the young ladies of 1ny acquaintance; for she was jolly and una.flected, and very frank and h.oaest, two qualities not generally found in society girls of the present. But the world has never seernec.1 to be the same to 1ne since one fateful day i11 January. It seen1s as if upon that day, in a fe1v brief hours, happened the events of a life ti1ne. I look back upon it now as a vague dreatn. In the latter part of this afternoon of \vhich I atn speaking, I sat down in n1y roon1 to stnoke a pipe and read the papers. The first thing that caught tny eye was this head line in the cable colun1n- SUNK IN THE BRITISH ClfANNEL! It was a terrible disaster in which one of the channel steatners had gone dovvn jn a fog with all on board. I carelesslv scanned the details .I but the paper dropped fron1 tny nerveless hand and the roo111 swatn around tny bewildered brain as I read the follo-vving nan1es in the passenger list: BAINFRET, MR. ASTOR A. BAINFRET, MR. \VESTON L. AND \VIFE. I seen1ed to have lost all n1uscula.r power~ I sat as one stunned with a heavy blow.\ ~• Does Wil know? Does Dolly know?~' were the thoughts which ran through n1y n1i11cl. At last I arose and hurried to Wil's house. Yes, they knew ; for as I opened the door I could hear Dolly sobbing upon Mrs. Agnes' ln·east. Poor little gid, how 1ny heart bled for her! . In the library I found Wil. lie vvas sitting in a large chair., his legs stretched to their utn1ost length ,and the tl1uscles contracted to rigidity, as a tnan strains under the surgeon's knife. His face was raised in helpless, blank appeal to high Heaven. It was an awful sight and I was afraid lest his nerves would give way under the terrific

,. I . l I f ~ .. I I 8 THE CONCORDIENSIS. strain. He lowered bin eves as I entered, but oJ they had a g1assy, horrH'lle stare; they were leveled at n1:e but did not seen1 to see me, he stretched forth his hand .as does a drowning 1nan and I pressed it in silent sytnpathy. As I stood there the full knowledge of lntn1an helplessness c£une to 111<e l.vith crush ir1g force. Suddenly a thGught struck n1e. I withdrew qutetly and . hurrying across the street, I rang the door bell. '~Tell Miss Willowsby that Mr. Walters wishes to see her itnnlediately ,\ I said to the rnaicl, and then I paced the parlor restlessly until she came do'\vn. I told her what h£td happened as quietly and as delicately as I coukL ~'My poor hoy,\ she cried, as the tears ran down her cheeks, \ I n1ust go to hitn at once.\ \' Certainly,'' I ansvvered, ' 1 I think. that you can help hitn. '' \\My poor boy,\ she whispered, as she knelt at his feet a rnon1ent later and put both anns about his neck, ~· 1\rly poor, poor boy.\ He stretched out his anns and took her to his heart, and btn·y1ng his face upon her breast, the scorch- ing, seething tears which had threatened to burn their \vay into his brain found exit. I -finnly believe that this and this only, saved his reason. \' 1..,. ou are all I have in this world now, Bessie,\ he sai<J as he con: posed himself. Thus the first shock passed avvay. Death is an awful thing, but -vvho can n1eastn~e its horror when it robs one of all of the relatives one has upon earth? I sat in the parlor hoping that I could be use- ful in son1e way, and thought. Death had clothed Wil with itntnense responsib_ilities tor one so young. He was the sole surviving nletn- ber of the fan1ily vvith the adtninistration of two large estates upon his hands beside the guardian- ship of Dolly. ~'Would he be able to do it? I thought that he would, but was a great responsi- bility. Presently Mrs. Agnes ccune down stairs and entered the roon1. '\' How is Dolly?\ I asked involuntarily. '·She has cried herself to sleep, poor little thing,\ she answere.d, '\ Oh, Mr. Walters, this is terrible. Where is Wil?'' I told her what I had done and she nodded assent. 1 ~ The best thing you could have done,\ she said, •' leave thetn together as long as possible. Ifhelovesher, and I think he does, sbe can cotnfort hitn as no other living person can. Mr. Walters if you are a praying tnan, pray for the· poor souls in this. house to-night.'' At this sarne ti1ne another tragedy had happened. John WiHo\vsby had failed. How- ever strong .a rrran n1ay be he is pov\rerless as aga1nst superior nurn bers. A cornbination had been fonned against h.:i1n and the strong tnan had fallen. His strugg1es were '1nigl1ty, and his fall the fall of :a giant, the whole country had heard and felt the shock. With halting steps and drooping shoulders, the deposed corn1nercial king ascended his door step. There was an un- earthly glitter in his deep set eyes, and a hollow n1ocking stnile upon his lips. \' They calculated well,\ he laugl1,ed diabolically, ~' I arn too old, too old to begin again. ·But I can die. I can die.\ A white-faced servant opened the door. \Where is Elizabeth?\ he cried, H Where is she? She will be glad to hear of this, she hates 1ne, ha! ha !\ and his horrid laugh sounded through the reverberating, dusky hall. \ She went over to lYfL Bainfret's,\ whispered the fi·ightened n1aid and Heel. '~What!\ he thundered, \Wlu1t! My daughter visiting a n1an in his ovfn house ! \ He strode across the st~eet and opening the door walked into the library '\vhere Bessie still sat upon Wil's knee. \ So this is what you do when I a1n gone,\ he thundered, as he crushed her tender ann in his fierce clutcl1., ,,, you visit your panunour in his own house do you? If ever you enter 111y hotne again I'll have you kicked frorn 111y door as I would a dog ! By God, I've a great 1nind to strike you down where you stand!\ and he lifted his heavy cane. \Vil had been too stupefied to speak before, but now he sprang forward and thrust the 1nan to one side. I will never forget the look of intensity upon his face as he hissed, while his hands clenched and his whole fran1e shook with fury, '' Go ! you hound, before I kill you where you stand! \ The n1an turned with a sneer upon his t'lce, and as he left the rootn he turned with a 111ocking laugh, '\I hope that you will enjoy your a1nour.\ Wil had kept his self control, but I could not keep 1nine, and I can scarcely recall an event which ever gave tne so 1nuch pleasure as I

THE CONCORDIENSlS. ~1 I 9 experienced in kicking the old reprobate out of doors. rolled and kicked with laughter, while Dolly and , I escaped to the parlor. \ What is to be done !\ I asked, for thi:s un- expected turn of events had confused tne. ~' Send for our tninis:ter,\ Wil answered. * * * * * * * * * Just as the last flashes oflightfrotn the sinking sun flew across the sHent ,earth, the 111inister voiced the soletnn words that tnade Wilson Bain- fret and Bessie Willowsby tnan and wife. At the satue 1non1ent a dull report was heard. John Willowsby's·sin stained soul had gone to tneet the awful vengeance of Infinite Justice. CHAPTER VII. THE SAME OLD STORY. Four years had passed. Wil and I had gone into partnership, and already stood atnong the protninent young lawyers of the city. The heal- ing hand of tin1e had kindly obliterated the horror of those fearful hours, and Wil was as happy as in the old days; while Bessie vva.s the happiest of young rnothers, and found new joys daily in the tnysteries of love ; love which had been to her as a sealed book all through the days of her life. Despite tny retnonstrances they had nan1ed their baby after n1e, and I stood sponsor for the chubby little rascal, who kicked and yelled like a good fellow as the nan1e was given hin1. Dolly had grown into a fine wotnan ; and Mrs. Agnes, perhaps a little n1ore snowy-haired~ had the satne sweet, kindly sn1ile and called her- self the baby's step-grandtnothPr. I found Wil alone in his library one evening and hastened to ask hitn a question which I had had upon tny tnind for a long titne. \ Wil I want to ask a favor of you.\ \Certainly old boy, what will you have?\ '' x ... ou are Dolly's guardian.\ \Yes?\ \ Well, I want to tnarry her-\ •• The devil you do,\ he e:xclaitned, as he jun1 ped up and begcul to laugh, as if he thonght it was an excellent joke. Just then Dolly catne in and I unconsciously took her hand. Wil extended his hands over us and exclain1ed, \ Bless you, tny children, hless you,\ and then dropped into a chair and In a tnotnent his wife ca n1e in to see what the tnatter was, as he was waking the baby. \' Why, why,\ h~- gasped as he led her to the parlor door and pointed at us, '' Those two kids want to get tnarried,'' and he went off\into another spasrn of laughter. (The End.) A Communication. JJ~r. Editor: I notice in your March nun1ber on page 90, in a valuable article, the foliowing, to which I ex- cept: '• \Vhile to the idle nutn an _ything is tiresotne, and life does not seen1 worth living except it be seasoned with vice- that certainly does see1n to give it son1e relish.\ This article was written by sotne one without experience or observation of the claitned pleasures of vice. I deny that vice furnishes true pleasure. Like the hilarity and noise of intetn perance, its en- joytnent does not satisfy. My witness is Solo- rnon, who tried all things. Sotne students do not wait for passion, but follo\v the devices of their natural appetites. Such an article is tnis- leading to thetn, at least. I clain1 all healthy natural desires are intended for gratification, and the titne and place generally con1es for tnora.l gratification-no u~e to court vice. Its enjoyn1ent is too kaleidoscopic. \Vait for the opportunity of tnoral and christian cotnplete satisfaction at least. JAMES H. CAMPBELL. Toledo. ---------- ·- .' Notes . I ;/l \/'Bon. Chas. Etnory Smith, Philadelphia Press, has been Chancellor for 1889. '6r, editor of the elected Honorary The Rev. Dr. T. S. llan1lin, '67, of Wash- ington, D. C., will deliver the Baccalaureate Sern1on.

I20 1,HE CONCORDIENSIS. ~ C0HE ·:· (?}ONGOf\DIENSIS. 4- PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY STUDENTS oF UNION CoLLEGE. :SO..A.::Ea:C OF :::E:DJ:'rO:eS : JAMES HowARD HANSoN, '8g, EniTOR-IN-CHIEF. L. L. CAMERO~' '89. } AssociATES. F. E. HAWKES, '90, E. T. CARROLL, '89, LITERARY EDITOR. H. C. DEPuv, '9o, \ AssociATES. B. c. LY:FTL E, '9I, J H. T. MosH En, 'go, BusiNESS EDITOR. J. W. FERGusoN, '9 1 ' f AssociATEs. G. F. MoSHER, '92, r c. H. FLANIGAN, '89, GILLESPIE CLUB EDITOR. TERMS, SINGLE CoPIEs $ r. so PER YEAR r~ Aov A-seE. 20 CENTS. \V e desire our friends to send us contributions, items ·Of interest and information concerning AlumHi. SubscriptioHs taken at Robison's news room, 263 State street, where receipts can be obtained. Extra copies can be obtained at above news room or on application to Business Manager. Subscribers not receiving papers promptly, will kindly notify Business Manager. All remittances should be m:.:\de and sent to THE CoNCORDIENSIS, Schenectady, N.Y. Entered at the Post Office, Schenectady, N. Y., as second-class matter. CHAS. BURROWS, PRINTER AND BOOKBINDER, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. EDITORIAL. THE delay in publishing this ntunber is due to the difficulty in obtaining a correct account of the Rochester banquet. * * * WE ARE presun1ing enough to believe that, for those of our readers who ill~e inter~sted in the study of the classics, we present then1 in this issue of THE CoNCORDIENSIS articles that will be to thetn, fron1 an intellectual standpoint, exceed- ingly palatable. Lovers of the Greek dratna ought certainly to enjoy Prof. Aslnnore's article on the '' Pt·esentation of the Electra of Sopho- cles.\ * * * DESPITE the fact that Union has no chair of History so-called, the students, and especially the Seniors, have reason to congratulate them- selves upon the advantages which they really do enjoy. Prof. Perkins has succeeded in inspiring 1nost of Seniors vvith so11Jething of his own enthusias1n for the History of An1erican Politics, a subject which, fascinating 1 n itself, is rnade tnore so by his highly instructive lectures. Prof· Wells and his didactic n1ethod of telling a story need no introduction to our readers. His present course of lectures on the '' Current History of the Pacific Slope \ in addition to being instructive. have the added, but no less irnportant quality, of being delightfully interesting. * *: * CoNSERVATISM catne very near provtng the ruination of Union in the past, and the fact that this san1e conservatis1n has at last yielded to the de,tnands of progress,, is the surest guarantee that the friends of the old college have of its future existence and prosperity. We feel that we are brushing against the sharp corners of popular prejudice when we con11nend the n1anner in which the Fresh1nen conducted their cren1ation. Our cotntnendation would be wanner, however, had the ceretnonies been entirely dispensed with. The slavish observance of old custon1s on the part of the tnany, sin1ply because they are old, shows far less rnoral courage than the independent defiance of these custo1ns by a manly few. There are son1e, we trust, atnong the students, \Vho will join in expressing the hope that the barbarou~ tnanner of cren1ating Algebra has received its death blow at Union. * * * No LOYAL Union 1nan in the class of '89 can afford to cut hitnself entirely loose frotn the apron strings of AlJna Jlfater when he steps down fro1n the con:unencernent stage. He should tnake it his fiTst duty after locating, either temporarily or pern1anently, to cast in his lot with the Altunni organization of his district. Should there be none, he should at once set hitnself about organizing one. There are few states, or few parts of states, where a sufficient nu1nber of Union rnen cannot be collected to fonn a strong and influential organization. Following are the n;:unes and addresses of the secretaries of the Alumni associations so far organized, to whotn applicatjons for 1net11 bership should be presented. Tbe Alutnni Association of New York, R. C. Alexander, 23 Park Row, New York. The Alumni Association of Albany ..J

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 121 and Northeastern New York, J. 1\ti. Mosher, 386 Ha111ilton street, Albany, N. Y. The Alurnni Association of the Northwest, vVilliatn P. Williams, r I 5 Horne Insurance Co. Buildin:g, . Chicago, Ill. The Association of the State of · ~California, Wtn. W. Britton, Oakland, Cal. The Association of the Genesee Valley, Jatnes G. Greene, Powers Block, Rochester, N. Y. -----··---~-------~- -----·------ COLLEGE NEWS. Base Ball. -The garnes thus _far show that the college has fully as strong a nine as last year and that with irnprovernent in base running we will pro- bably haYe the leaders of the league. -The season opened with the first in the series of class gatnes.. It was played by '90 and '92 and the Juniors won by a score of 9-10. Carroll and Me Donald for the Juniors and Me Q!1een ·and Pickford for the Freshtnen, were the batteries. -The second gan1e was played by a tea:tn frotn the upper classtnen against one fron1 the lower classn1en. The lower classtnen were defeated 36,6. Nolan and Me Donald filled the boxes for the winning tean1s, while the regular F1:esl11nen battery was played by the lower class- Inen. -On Friday, April 19th, the college tearn played their first gatne together and defeated the Albany Law School nine, 28-r. RIDGEFIELD 8 ; UNION 4· The next day the regular college teatn crossed bats with the Ridgefields at Albany. It was the first gan1e in which the n1en played in their regular positions and was composed of, :!\tic- Donald, pitcher ; Rhinehart, catcher; Pick:Cord, first base; DePuy, second base; Mosher, third base ; Little, short stop; J\1cQ.ueen, right field, Stnith, centre and Hunsicker left field. Mc- Donald, 'go, was elected captain of the nine. The gan1e was close and exciting, being played very evenly during the greater part. 'I'he battery work on both sides was good ; Me Donald striking out seven tnen, while the Ridgefield pitcher struck out only three. \Crematio Oln.eii '92.\' At about six o'clock on the evening ofTuesday, March z6, an open wagon, in which was a covered object having strong rese1nblance to a coffin, was driven to Middle Section, South College, and hardly had it stopped when about twenty Freshrnen, each carrying a club, appeared ofi the terracP. Four of them took the coffin (for such it was) frotn the wagon, and, guarded by the others, (who 1neanwhile glanced menac- · ingly at three Sophotnores wh.o were standing on the North Section stoop) carried it up to a roon1 on the second floor. Here, until eight o'clock, the coffin lay in state, and was visited by several upperclasstnen. At about eight o'clock the Freshrnen changed their rninds about starting fro1n M'iddle Section, and after breaking in the door of an empty room in South Colonnade, the coffin was carried there. Fron1 this roon1, at about ten o'clock, the march was taken up, the class appearing without a rn.an absent, and each one wearing a white head-piece, and a white gown on the front of which was painted in black, a skull and bones, and on the back a large \ 92.\ At the request of President Webster, the old custotn of n1arching around the city was given up, and after n1arching around the ca1npus a couple of titnes, fire was set to the coffin in front of the round building. When the crowd had caltned down a little, and when the shower of odoriferous eggs, decayed apples, etc., had ditninished sotne, E. 0. Stnitb, the orator of the evening, began his oration. His first words were a sign for another discharge of vegetables, and so nutnerous did thev becotne that it was ..., necessary for the speaker to be surrounded by so1ne of his classtnates, to afford hitn enough protection to enable hitn to speak. At the conclusion of the exercises the Fresh1nen received the congratulations of the Sophornores, and went away relieved, knowing that the worst of their Freshtnan life was a thing of the past. The following were the MAGISTRATI. Grand Marshal, A. R. Perkins ; Assistant Marshal, C. T. Loebenstein; Chaplain, C. W.

' I I22 THE CONC;ORDIENSIS. Trun1bull; Orato1.·, E. 0. Stnith; Poet~ W. E. W. Robinson; Drum Major, J. V. Wen1ple. The following \' Resolutions '' were drawn ttp, signed by tl1e cotntnittee of arrangements.: E. 0. Stnith, G. F. Mosher, G. H. Furbeck, J. V. W·ernple, C. S. Hart, WHERE AS, Al G. Bra has been associ a ted with us for six consecutive tnonths, and ·J WHEREAs, We feel indebted to hirn for the infinitesitnal incretnent of knowledge obtained, . and WHERE AS, His charasteristics have been the root of an i1naginary influence over us.. There- fore be it Resolved, That, though we bow in all hutnility to the decree of our aU-wise facn~ty that has elitninated fro1n our nun1ber such a square, equable and den1onstrative cotnrade, still our hearts are wrung \Vith anguish at the thought of O·ur loss. · Resolved, That, as a 1nark of respect, we attend his funeral in a body, suitably clad, and bearing the etnbletns of death. Resolved, 1\'hat according to a wish expresse({ in his last illness, his body be cre1nated. Resolved, That copies of these resolutions be transn1itted to his heart broken classtnates, to the Garnet and the Scotia papers for publication, and be finally deposited aLilong the archives of the class. Doings of the Alu,mni. The first annual banquet of the Union college alutnni association of the Genesee valley was ~ . held at Powers hotel on the evening of the r 8th inst. Previous to the banquet a 1neeting was held, at which the following officers were elected: President Oscar Craig, '56; vice-president, Franklin M. Comstock, '76, LeRoy ; secretary and treasurer, J atnes G. Greene, '84 ; executive cotntnittee, Dr. David Little, '55, Rev. Dr. Nelson Milliard, '53, Dr. Porter Farley, '62, G. B. Y. Warnei·, '68. At seven o'clock the 1netnbers and several invited guests, in all about forty, sat down to the banquet. After the elaborate menu had been discussed Rev. Dr. Nelson Millard shortly before nine a'' clock, assun1ed the duties of toasbnaster, and the intellectual feast was begun. Dr. MiHard spoke in hig11 ten:ns of President Harrison E. Webster of\ Oid Union'' and of her songs and traditions. A song to ,. Old Union \ was sung with a wiU, and tl1en Presil(lent Webster 1~esponded to the first toast ofthe evening, \Ol<!l Union.'' \'As I look back at Union,'' said President Webster, ,,, I think I can see that there was n1is- rnanagetnent. I ean say that there is nothing of the old trouble there now. I shaU work with the satne earnestness as of old to build up the college. I wish to put 1nyself on record as saying that I thought years ago that I was right when I was connected with Union college. YoH know, of C<?urse, that owing to those fonner difficulties, Union ~ost rnuch of its p.ron1inence. vVhen the position was offered to tne last May I was very doubtful of accepting it. But I went back to the old college to look around, and I confess that I cou1d ·not bel p going back. Under Dr. Nott the influence of the alutTlni a1nounted to little. Now an alu1nni association has been. fonned in New York with great success, and also one in Albany with equal success. Subse- quently I went out to Chicago, \vhere a tneeting was held and an association fonned. This asso- ciation in Rochester is the fourth. I think others will be fonned in Buffalo, St. Paul and other cities next year. '' Now certain .changes are about to be brought about in the coUege. We sball establish a regular course for those desiring certain degrees.. The curriculum will be largely revised. \Ve have the classical, scientific, engineering and Latin scientific courses. We intend to build up 1nore thoroughly the classical course. I think that is by far the best course.\ In closing his retnarks he paid a corn plin1ent to the faculty as being highly efficient, and dwelt on the religious teaching that under hitn vvould characterize the college. Professor George D. Olds responded to tlTe toast, \ The University of Rochester.\ \ I had the pleasure,\ said Professor Olds, \ of being ~ssociated with President Webster during fout of the five years in which he was with the university here. He has the faculty of reaching v 1l f \i f t t

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 123 very sound conclusions by very unorthodox tnethods. I think it was at the university here I that that process of evolution in his experience was brought about which fitted hitn so adrn.irably for the presidency of Union. His student life, the burning of the tnidnight oil, the s.moking of · the student pipe, the old warrior characteristics, are all left, as indicated qften to those who know hin1 well. But his great€st characteristic is to govern and to teach. '' The power ot the alutnni .of colleges is rapidly becon1ing more and more to be felt. There is a personality that we aU feel in our college institutions. We call it our mater, and we love it. We owe our ahna rnater everything.\ \ I was a graduate of Rochester. I have been a professor here for four years. I believe in it. I hope rny own years wiH be associated with it to the end. I ~trust that the alun1ni of Union will stand by their ahna 1nater. We hail this protnise of revival in Union college. I feel ' like giving three cheers and a tiger for ' Old Union.' \ Charles E .. Fitch, a regent of the university of the state of New York, who had the misfortune not to graduate at Union, but who enjoyed the influence ofMark Hopkins, was next introduced. Mr. Fitch. said his recollections ofUnion college were 1nainly confined to the classic shades of Givens hotel, in which he had passed tnany royal hours. \The truth is,\ said he, \ in tny time Union college by New England college tnen was looked upon rather with a feeling of conternpt. I suppose we thought New England colleges were so1nething of a higher type than New York colleges. We used to think Union was a sort of Botany Bay kind of college. I do not think Dr. Nott was so wholly wrong as he has been thought. Many young tnen he tnade into true Atnerican citizens. I challenge any one to find a brighter array of men frorn r8o4 to r864 than are in the catalogue of Union. 1\:' .. It seetns to 1ne that there stand forth pre- eininently three or four college presidents whose n1e1nory will last forever. I tnay natne Francis Wayland, Mark Hopkins and Eliphalet Nott an1ong these. I am a graduate of Wil,liatns coUege, but I atn a citizen of the state of New York, proud of her cotntnercial position but -- ~----------~ --- -- prouder of h.er inteH.ectual institutions. But a littl·e south of us has been built a great institu- tion within a few years. We have our s111aller colleges, and rtow I believe we are to iha.ve a revivai of tll.e next to the olidest college in the state, o1d Union. It was not 1ny good fortune to know intitnately this new president of Union college unti~ he was about to vanish fro1n us, but I find that he is a scholar-the right rnan in the right place. Other toasts were ; · '' The Spher.e of Union in Educational Work,\ Professor Edwanl Hay- w.ard, Clyde; \Union Coillege in Me<Hcine,\ Dr. David Little; \Union's Legislators,\ the Hon. S. K. Williatns; \ Our Guests,\ Dr. C. A. Dewey;\ Union in '28,\ J. D. Husbands. Letters of regret were read frorn Oscar :Craig, the Hon. George F. DanforH1, Joseph O'·Connor, George E.. Mumford and others who were unable to be present. The fol~owing are the By-laws of the Asso- ciatioa: ARTICLE I. NAME. The name of this As so cia tion shall be the Union CoHege Ahnani Association of the Genesee Valley. ACTICLE II. OBJECTS. Its objects shall be the promotion of social inter- course and .good feeling among its metnbers, and the advancemeat of the best interests of Union College. ARTICLE III. MEMBERSHIP. Any pe1·son who is, or at any time ha.s been, a President, Member of the Board ofTrusteesor Member of the Faculty of Union College; any person who has received, or been entitled to receive, the diploma of Union College; any person who shall have been a student at Union College, in any course, for the period of at least one collegiate year and shall have left in good standing, residing in the Seventh Judicial District, and the Counties adjoining thereto, shall be eligible to become a resident member of this Association. Any pers()n similarly qualified, residing with.out the territory above named, shall be eligible tC> become a non-resident member. ARTICLE IX. DUES. The dues of members of this As~ociation shall be one doillar per year, payable an.nually on the demand of the Treasurer. Locals. -~re you on the l).ine ? -The Seniors are looking for work. -There was a general college 1~ecess ()n Good Friday,· April 19th.

.! . ·. :1 I ,I '· ' \ .; 124 THE CONCORDIENSIS. . ·~- ---- ·- ----- - -~----------~---- ------- ·------- -- . -· President Webster has taken the seniors in histoxy of civilization for the tenn. -Caution: Spring fever is ve,ry prevalent and very contagious, its syrnptotns are, a loss a interest in study, failure in the class ~roon1., and extreme fear for the future. -The Freshtnen tnade their plug hat pa1·ade through the streets the fiTst day of the tenn, April 9th. rrhey are now :fearless in their ap- pearance with the cane and high hat. -Two class gan1es of base ball have been played on the campus this season, '89 defeated '92 with a scotie of 26 to 9 and '90 won a garne frotn the Freshtnen. Score 9 to 10. -The following seniors have been appointed for the Com1nencen1ent stage: Catneron, Carroll, Conover, Culver, Funnan, Hanson, Harder, Nolan; 8itnpson and \iV<tshburne. The valedictorian cannot be announced un.til the first of.J une. -Two n1usicals, one April 25th and one May r6th, will be given under the auspices of the Ladies' Musical Union of Schenectady, in the college chapel. Tickets are for sale at the college office, and will be sold, at the reduced rate of one dollar for both concerts, to students. -Professor Wells, who returned frotn the West at the beginning of the tenn, lectures every Tues,day and Thursday, on the general subject, The Pacific Slope. 1-'Iis lectures are extretnely interesting and are delivered to the senior class in particular, but the tovvn's people are 1nost welco1ne and rnany of them attend. -The Field day of the I11ter-Collegi ate Athletic association which will be held at Island Park, Albany, May 23d, and which is regarded with so rnuch of interest by our athletes, will be under the entire charge of ~nion College. Union men should do their uttnost to distinguish thetnselves atnong the prizes~ this may be done by persistent practice and pro pet- training, for we have some good tnen who lack only in this important particular. The colleges that are represented in the Association and which cotn- pete at~e Syracuse, Ha1nilton, Rochester, Madi- son, Hobart and Union. FolloV\ring are the entries which will be open -until May I 5th : roo Yard Dash, 220 Yard Dash, 440 Yard Run, 88o Yard Run, I Miie Walk, I Mile Run, Putting I 6 lb. Hatntner, 120 Yard Hurdle, (Io flights, 3ft. 6 in.) 220 ·y-ard Hurd1e, ( 10 fligl?ts, 2 ft. 6 in.) Running High J un1p. Running Broad Jutnp. Pole Vault. . 2 Mile Bicycle, Lawn Tennis Singles, Tug of War ( temn of 4 n1.en litnit 6oo lbs .. ) --------~-~- -----~------ Personals. v·''6o. Satnuel R. Thayer l1as been notninated by President Harrison to be tninister to the Netherlands. ir/''6o. Frank Loo1nis is general counsel for the N.Y. C. R. R. \.//67. Tunis S. Hmnlin is pastor of the Church of the Convent in Washington.] It is at this '\ church that President Harrison, the Vice- President and n1ost of the Cabinet worship.) ·\\_,. \:.19· E. P. White has been appointed city attorney of An1sterdan1, N. Y. 'i/83. Gilbert spent a fe\\v days lately in Schenectady. '88. Mac M urrray is engaged in the real estate business in Troy, N. Y. V9o. '.Carmichael is clerk to the sheriff of Montgotnery County. .,__- ------~-- ---- ----- ------ ------------- ------------------ ~Hppings. -] ohns Hopkins has just one co-ed. -There are, in the world, 2,750 different lan- gu~ges. -Five tnen have been suspended frorn Brown for cribbing.

THE CONCORDJENSIS. I25 _,While Bistnarck was in college he fought twenty-nine duels. -The Seniors, at Williatus, have at last de- ,· ckled to have the usual class-day exercises, and --Harvard is to have a new clonnitory which will cost $zoo,ooo. -Lafayette has forty-two candidates fot posi- tions on the ball nine. -- -Ov€r $7oo was cleared by the Junior class of Colutnbia at its protnenade. --Ben Butler will address the Alun1ni of Colby at the co1ning cotntnencetnent. -No srnoking is to be allowed, henceforth, within the precincts of Colurnbia. -Lehigh students have petitioned the Faculty for a fixed nutnber of cuts a tern1.. -Over a thousand dollars have been raised for a base-ball cage at Dartlnouth. -Two of the seniors at Rochester University are engaged in writing an operetta. -Harvard professors are given a year's vaca- tion, with full pay, every seventh year. --Brown is to spend $z,ooo for base-ball, of wl1ich $r ,300 was raised at the first tneeting. -Ex-President Hayes is expected to deliver a ser~es of lectures on political econ01ny at Oberlin. -President Patton, of Princeton, proposes to raise $zoo,ooo to found a hall for political econ- omy. -The University of Toronto proposes to send a base-ball club on a tour of the Atnerican colleges. -The ladies of Harvan.l Annex have chal- lenged the Colutnbia \ Co-eds \ to an eight- oared race. -The photograph of the students at Cornell is the largest group ever taken, containing over I ,roo faces. e.- -Professors at Harvard lock their lecture~­ roorn doors five tninutes after the hour, to pre- vent interruption. -The trustees of Princeton have given Dr. McCosh a pension of $z,5oo, whether engaged in his duties or not. have elected their officers. -The University of Pennsylvania will ere~ct a donnitory at a cost of $r25,ooo, which is to be the largest in the United States. -· Yale has accepted the challenge of Cornell to a four-tnile race on the Thatnes ri-ver at New London. Psotta will stroke the Cornell crew. · -· A professorship of physical cutture, with an endowtnent of $z,ooo, is to be established at Amherst, in tnetnory of the late Henry Ward Beecher. -Johns Hopkins has succeeded in raising the $I 5D,ooo necessary to tide over the difficuities caused by the failure of the B. and 0. road to pay interest on its shares. -This year Hobart College will publish a de- cennial catalogue. The yearly catalogue is out and shows the number of students to be two less than the nutnber last year. -Methy lbenzointhoxyethyltetrah ydropyridid- inecasboxylate is the chetnical tenninology for cocaine, and is the longest known cotnposit word in our, or any other language, thank good- ness. -An attetnpt is to be 1nade to enable students to secure the degree of .A. B. st Harvard after a course of only three years. It is thought that many students, who desire to irnprove their ti1ne, can do in three years what is now done in four. TIT FOR TAT. He timidly climbed up the brownstone steps, He timidly rang the bell; He felt that this visit might be his last, But why so he could not tell. As he stood at the door the winter wind Whirled in the streets about, But above its .roaring he heard her sa:y, ''John, tell him that I am out.\ As the door was o-pened with stately rnein, He said to the butler tall, '' Pray, go to J\'Iiss Jones with my c<>rnpliments, And tell her I did not call.\ -E.~change.

THE CO.NCORDJENSFS. -· -]1'1.' order to· clise·OVel 1 fl~Je real wei-ght: of the tnuch Pepeated argut-pent ~that intereoltegiate contests are detrin1ental to good scholaiship,: the President of Cornell} 1J niversity has been keep- ing a record of 1nen who engage intercollegiate sports. He finds that they ate, as a rule, stronger both mentally and physically than those who do not ettgage in snch ex:etcises·;. ' T WA:S EVER THUS. A gailant oystdr loved a sponge, In· the· depthls of tn'e· dm~k ·Mue' sea, An& the sponge wh-ich the ga;lhtnt oyster loved, Was .as fair as a sponge could be. But the sponge the oyster's love disdained, With a manner most cold and curt, To feel that' his love by· a sponge was spurned :Did the pdde of the' oyste1' nurt.- Fate came at last, the sponge caught cold, And she died of memb'rous croup~ While the gallant oyster; who loved the sponge, Found he was in the soup I - Wil!z'ams Weekly. DE LONG'S L d . ' ;~~ o: - r n · a 1es anu ~ent S·.f~estauraBt, I04 WALL STREET. FIRST...;CLASs IN EvERY APPOINTMENT. Ca.ter5.ng a.. Specialty. ACADEMICAL GOWNS. Correct styles and materials for University and Col- lege use. These Gowns add grace and full ness to the speaker's forrrt, and are univetsally worn. Prices, $15 to $25,. according to material. Special prices for large numbers to classes. For measurement, send height, width of shoulders, size o£ neck, length of sleeve. Address a-. '\\VV. SJ:l>I.:!!Y.l:O~.s & co.~ CS Z ':I:'O 44: NO~'J:I:S:: S':!.\:EE:ST. BOSTON, MASS. TEACHERS WANTED! Eight Principals, Eleven Assistants, and a number for l'flusic, also Art and Specialties. Send stamp for application fornt and circulars of in- formation to NATIONAL SCHOOL SUPPLr BUREAU, Mention this paper. CHICAGO, ILL. H .ATHAWAY'S Stable~ 304 CLINTON STREET. Single and Double Rigs furnished on Short Notice. Depot Calls a SjJedalty. Telephone Com2ectt'on.

ADVERTISEMENTS. Richmond Straight-Cut No. I Cigarett~s. Cigarette smokers who a.re willing to pay a little more than the price charged fo1: the ordinary trade cigarettes will find THIS BRAND superior to all othe·rs. The Richmond Straight-Cu:t No. I . Cigaret~es .are made fro.m the brightest, most delicately :fiiav·o.re,a and: highest cost Gold Leaf grown in Virginia. This is the Old and Original Brand of Straight-Cut Cigarettes,. and was brought out by us in the year r875· Beware of imitations and observe that the firm name as below is on every package. ALLEN & GINTER, Manufacturers, Rich1nond, Va. CHAS. BOLTZMANN, ' CLOTHIER & MERCHANT TAILOR, Nos. 2oi attd 203 STATE STREE'T', SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Perfect .F'£t attd Good Work Guaranteed. EUGENE c. HULBERT, (Successor to Barhyte & Hulbert,) DEALER IN :BOOX:S AND .STATIONERY, Paper Hangings and Decoxations. A Full Liue of Colleg·e Text Books. l~ooms Papered at Short Nol.ice. 235 STATE STREET, ScHENECTADY, N.Y. AUGUST SCHMIDT. OPPOSITE GIVENS HOTEL, (Up Stairs.) ELEGANT AN~ USEFUL ~DS. · Ou.r assortment 1ndudesaful1l hne of . Silver -:Plated Elegant La.mps, China, Fancy Gla:ss..ware and Nov·eTties in .great var~~ty:. :M;any othe-r attractio FI.s too nurnerou,.s to :me.ntio:t;I-C;O:ME. S. 2. J .A.~E'9:., ·M:ana.ger- . Y. 1\1. C. A. Building. SCHEN\ECTAD N.Y. WOOD BROS.; UEN~~ ltli~~~~JllfiG H88DS, SHIRTS, UN.PERW;EAR, ·GLOVES, ;H·~I.~RY, . NECKWEAR, .OOLLARS 1\.N.D ;CUFFS. 255 State Street, SCJ-IEJ.7E:CT'J1D r, N. r. DR. o. J. GROSS, OFFICE HOURS FROM 9 At . . M. TO 4 J:l. 11-f. ii.S6 Jay Street,. ScHENEC:r .~:VU¥, N.Y. A M. POWERS, • • PHONOORAPHl(j ,ARTIST. No. 429 State St., Scken.e.cl.ady, N. r. ZIMMER & KINGMAN, :Ui'SlePy, pale and Ex~llatnge Stables, 130, 132 AND 134 CEN'I'R..~ STREET. Single and Double Rigs furnislied on Short Notice. Telephone Conn.ect:i(i}n.

: 't ADVERT ISE.J;fENTS. -- ----------------------- --~--~--------~ ----~------ ---- -- s • E. MI:LLER, JR., ~ ~en. \s 01-1.. tfi tte:r . ., ·~ Neckwea1', Uuderwear, HosifJ.ry, Gloves, &:c. Jerseys, Tennis Shirts, Fancy Flannel Shirts and Coats, NoTfolk Jackets, Knee Pants, and Bicycl~ Goods. FINE SHIRTS TO ORDER. ·. CHAS. N. YATES, r3o State Street; Sche1tectady. N. r. Beds, Chairs, Mattr·esses, and all articleR pertain- ing to funi,ish.ing student's rooms. 34 and 30 MAIDEN LANE, AL.HANr. · .. [iT' GooDs DELIVERED FREE. A JAY A. RICKARD, Manufactu.rer's Agent and Jobber of ESTABLISHED 1829. ~Upholsterers and Furniture Dealers.~ ' Fiahing T'c~1, &a Arma, &n! ~~~rting ~~~!a, 253 STATE STREE'T, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 3 o2 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. All Orders by ]}Jazl -zuill Recez've Pr01njt Atte1ztz'on. CLARKE, . -NOTMAN PHOTOGRAPHIC co., CATERER 48 NOilT.E--1 P_EAilL ST., ALBANr. --TO- Reduced liates to Students. WEDDINGS, BANQUETS & PARTIES, 49 Hurl.son Avemce, ALBANr, 1.V. r. College Views and Faculty Pictures Kept in Stock. THE WENDELL MUSIC CO., Limited. HARMAN CONSAUL, Pianos, Orga11s a11d ~fusic. Wholesale and Retail Dealer in FULL STOCK AT LOWEST PRICES Boots, Sho:es and Rubbers, 89 & 91 NoRTH PEARL St., ALBANY, N.Y. 260 State .Str6et, Schenectady, N. Y. R. K. QUAYLE, WILSON DAVIS, ALBANY, N.Y.· WEDDING AND COLLEGE INVITATIONS, CARDS, MONOGRAMS. OrzgiJtal Designs whe1z Desired. ~e:rob.a:tl.t 'J:'ailo:r., 237 STATE STREET, SCI-IENECTADY, N. Y.

ADf7E.R TJSEMb'NTS. J • V. VROOMAN & SON, ESTABLISHED 1'854· Dealer in HARDWARE, STOVES, TIN:W.A:RE, PLUMEING, STEAM AND HoT AIR FuRIS\ACEs. .:• • . -' l AU Plumbing, Stearn and Gas Fitting Promptly Attended to. 138 and 140 STATE ST., SCHENECTA.OY. HANFORD ROBISON, NEWSDEALER AND STATIONER, 263 STATE STREET. Cigan, ,Tobacco,· a~d Cigarettes. · ~ Newspapers and··· Magazines. Circulating Library. L.A. YOUNG:: w. ETCHINGS, ENGRAVINGS, , fl~tg MAl'(RIA.l~! .. CA T. I-JANSON & CO . ., 335 ,'STATE STREE'1, Druggists and Apothecaries. FINE CIGARS A SPEClALTY. Proprietors of HANSON's MAGIC CoRN SAL V:E • 335 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. TOILET ARTICLES. DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES. ESTABLISHED r84o. GAVIT & Co.,·· PRINTERS & ENGRAVERS, ALBA~JY, N. Y. Spedal Atte1ztion gz'ven to College Work. ~ .. - . =========== · .. E. c. HARTLEY, DEALER IN ::E?i a :r.l.. 0 s., 0 :r g a:rl.s.: ·Ch·o1·ce G · d _AND_ roGerleS ·· an . Provisions, MUSICAL MERCHANDISE OENERALLr .. . . Domestic and other Fatnily Sewing Machine-s. . ARCADE BLOCK, SCHENECTADY, ~- Y. ARTISTIC P~INlll]\1G q B88K Bl]\1Dl~G. CHAS .. BURROWS:~ ' ' ~ . .. 332 Stattf Street, .. 'lchenectady, N. V. Imported and Dom.estic C-igars~ 'Tobacco, Confec- tionery, .&c. Flne Btdter a Sj>ecz'alty. 6oz: cntd 603 .L:'\\lion Street. •. KING'S - Gents' Eurnis.hirig ·Em·poi~itlm., 218 STATE STREET .. The finest line of Mep.'s Apparel can be found he.re. All Novelties in Neckties. etc. Call and see our variety of College Skades in Mu:fll ers, . Handkerchiefs and Ties . Goods recez'ved for Troy Lau?tdry. H. F .. S::tv.:r:IT::S:'S NEW ONE-PRI-CE CLOTHING and MEN'S FURNISH~NG GOODS HOUSE, JII STATE STREET, Cor .. WALL, SCHENECTADr, N. r. Fine Tailor-Made Clothing Equal to Custom Work, Headquarters for Boy's and Children's Cloth in g. PRICES LOWER THAN THE LO·WEST.

AD VERTJSEL11ENT.S. -- -- ------ -----~- --- - --- --- -- -- ---- ,EDISON MACHINE WORKS, SCHENECTADl.-.., N. Y. Spraglle Electric Motors, Edison Underground Conductors. !I&ULATED WIRE AMD ~AB1E~, ~HAFTIIG PULLEY~ -----AND-- GENEEAL ~ACHINEE Y. EDISON ELECTRIC WEBSTE:R'S UNABRIDGED THE BEST INVESTMENT FOR the Farn ily, the School,. the Professional or Private Library. The latest edition ~ontnins 3000 more Words aud nearly 2000 m<>re Engraving~,than any other .American Dictionary. Among the supplementary features, original with Webster's Unabridged, and unequaled for concise and trustworthy ,information, are A BI:Oc RAPHICAL DICTIONARY givingbri€f facts concerning nearlylO,UUO Noted Pt'rsons of ancient and modern times. A CAZETTEER OF TH·E WORLD locating and briefly d-escribing 25,000 Places; anu the Voc·ahulai'Y of the names of Noted FICTIT:IOUS PERSONS & PLACES The Latter is not found in any other Dictionary. Webster ex.cels in SYNONYMS, which are appropriately .found ill. the body of the work. Webster is Standard.Authority in the G'ov'tPrinting Office, and with tlu lJ. S. Supreme Court. It is recommended by the State Supt 's of Sell ools of 36 States, and by the leading College Presidents of the U.S. and Canada. Illustrated Pamphlet .sent free. Publif.!hed hy G. &. C. 'MERRIAM & CO., Rpringfield, .!VI ass. LIGHT MACHINERY. KIMBALL,S l7mwrj>assed bz ~uality. Lysed b_v People of Rejinf'd Taste. 'The :finest S:r.c.oking- l:Mti:x:tu:tes a.:r:e of ou:r lM:t:a.n ufa.ctu:re. 1¥M. S. KIMBALL &- CO., F(ftern First Priz£> .Afedals. Roche.r;/er, N. r: • 4 ,

AD VER TJSEJJ1 ENJ:c:;. ------- -- --- - -- -· - ---- ---- ---- THE EDISON MACHINE WORKS, SCHENECTAD\-r, N. Y. Sprague Electric Motors, Edison Underground Conductors. II~Ut.ATED WIRE AID tABLES, ~HAFTING PULLEY~ --AND-- GENEEAL :hl.rACHINEE Y. EDIS.ON ELECTRIC LIGHT MAC'HINERY. -- ---- -- -- - --------~--- -- WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED THE B'E:ST INVESTMENT F'OR the Family, the Sclwol, the Professional or Private Library. The latest «\clition f'ontninR 3000 morE' Wordi'l and nearly 2000 more Engravingsthan any other American Dictionary. Among the supplementary features, original with Webster's Unabridged, and u.nequaled for concise and trustworthy information, are A BIOCRA.PHICAL DICTIONARY giving brief facts c<m cern ing nearly Io,ooo .Noted l >t·r~~ )ns of anciPnt and modern times. A CAZETTEER OF THE WORLD locating and briefly describing 25,000 Places; and t lie Vocabulary of the names of Noted FICTITIOU·S PERSONS & PLACES The latter is not found in any other Dictionary. Webster excels in S~NONYMS, which are appropriately found m the body of the work. Wehsteris Standard Authority in the Gov'tPrintingOffice, and with the U. S. Supreme Court. It is recommended hy the State Supt's of School~ of 36 States, and by the leading College Presidents of the U.S. and Canada. Illu~tratf'd Pamphlet Rent frN'. Publi~hed hy G. & C. MERRIAM & CO., Rpringfield, .1\fass. KIMBALL'S ~tr~ight-~ut ~ig~rettu. Ullsttrjassed ill ~ttality. {rsed by People of Reji7lf'd Taste. The :finest S:r:n.ok:ing :hl.ri:xtu:res are of our J!\4:an 1.:1.fa.cture. 1/VA;f. S. KIMBALL ~ CO., Fzftef'n First Prizp !Jfedals. Rorhester~ N. r.

• AD VER TlSEJ!IEl§T.S.. .. .. .· .... . . . -- - ... -- ----!'\\------·.-· -- --~·. CHAS. Q. ELLIS, Pres't. WA:t.XER. McQJ)BEN, Vlce Pfes't. ED\\t ARD :E'LLTS, Treas. Al,.BERT J. FITKJN; _S';lpt~ . v -Schenectady x Locomotive x Works, • • 'Of • . SCHENECTADY, N. Y. · Locomotives. of Standard Design for all Classes of S~tvice, or Jronl :DeSigns furnished by Railroad Compani~s . •. ri;tbJtua:fl Oapa~~1t:y ~OOe - 1949. lSSB. FLANNEL·. sHiRTS a'lzd . ~fi!I!Dt:i .-:·. ,. rsziit:±t:n • I --- •' ' ' \ • ;1 ' \ ' . OUTING GOiJ'JJJ:s ., ·. · .. . . ' ' ~- J -~;·'!!:· •·' ;,;\ :\. . ~ ': l . '. . ·. ' f• .ALSO FOR TBE ~ • • . t \ ·.: FANCr FLANNEL SH/.8.1:'8,._. . ~ ~ . . ·. MADE ONLY BY THE . . , , • - • ~ ~ 'f • • • '· .... )\ TM'Ii ! R:~~:~:~.--N NSL BF{O I\ A w ill AN' FIG. G)o., t\\i nttL1AI~@fNN£t \\-''r.. __ ,OTiiER ..•.. . ,SiYL~S. NEW-BURGH, N. Y. OTHERSTYLi:.SLAC£D • .. . i -, ; .• t . : •• o; '. \ . . · .. ... :. j • ~ . -· '!- ' . c '' ·<.: ... • , •1' :· ...... \. '· ~' .. ,• ; '\ .· I .• ..... .. ,. '. . •' .,:, ·, . . :.:: . ' :. ~· ; •, '·. 'f; :· ;.''' ' ' . . . -' . . ' . : ~ . .. . . ...... • ''·~I I • . ' --· . . . .i. :. \ . ' '.,; ~. . : ' ', · . .':-·.: ·:., ''

AD VER TISElviEl'iTS. . . - . ..... -- ~ -- ---- ------· --- . -- CHAS. G. ELLIS, Pres't. WALTER McQPEEN ,, Vice P.res't. ED\\'\ ARD ELLIS, Treas. ALBERT J. PITKIN, Supt. Schenectady x Locomotive x Works, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Locomotives of Standard Design for all Classes of Service, or from Designs furnished by Railroad Companies. lSSS. O.UTIN:G GOODS. •£1!ltU&D!&32ZLZ aucmz;oJiiU.WISiaistl ·:u . - ALSO FOR THE \IDEAL\ $2.50 RETAIL . FANCr FLANNEL SHIRTS. MADE ONLY BY THE THE ~REs_ ALI 0 AKaL 0 E 0 'AFTL.ANNEL B·k)ov. AW mAN' at::!: .• ·r:t 0 ., ~ \ ~ t ~ P u ~ 't\\t \atUAB.ANNEl $HfiJ; OTHER ~-. . . STYLES. NEWBURGH N y ~ ' . . • ' . I • OTHER STYLES LACi.D. . .. ~ OSEPH CIL~OTT s STEEL P£NS. · THE fAVORITE NUMBERS, 303~404, 604 ,35H, 170, AND IUS OTH!:R STYlES · · $OlD BY ALL DEALERS ntROVGHOUT mE WORLDft ~~~ ' - - . - - .. nnw&- p:rn ~·---' ! ' ~ I . . ' I I . I I

f t: '· ; ! I ~ . l.i I AOID PHOSPHATE4 Prepared according to the directi>ons of Prof. E. N. Horsford. Especially Reeooune n d ed for Dyspepsia, Nen{)usness,.ExbaustioD., lleadaebelTired Brain, And. :c;J:l Diseases arising frorn Indigestion and Nerve Exhaustion~. This is not a c0mpounded \patent medic.ine,'' but a preparation of the phosphates and phosphoric acid in the form required by the system. It aids digestio-n without injury, and is a beneficial food and tonic for the brain and nerves. It makes a delicious drink with water and sugar only, and agrees with such stimulants as are necessary t(D: take. Descriptive f?BDJphlet free .. RUMFORD CHEMICAL WORKS, Providence,. R. I. :Se\\a:re o:E Substitutes and.. :C:r:r:l.itations. CAUTION-Be sure the word ''Horsford's\ is printed on the labt=d. All others are spurious. Never sold in bulk. ASIC. FOR THE FAMOUS ~ANCH:OR ·:· BRAND·+- COLLAR.S~ CUFFS AND SHIRTS. They Will O.otwear two Ordinary Collars. All Fashlonable St~l~s. For Sale Everywhere. JOSEF~I McDONOUGII, 39 North Pearl SL, Albany, N. Y., alld 7 44 Broad way, N. Y. City, New and ,Second Hand Books. J The largest stock ofh<Jol<s in the state outside of New York city, ~om­ prising Americana, History, Biography, Medicine, Theology, and Gen- · eral Literature. NEW Bl()OKS ordered at large discount. ..Q\SJ?eoiaJ. :eates to Stud. en ts. E. W. VINE, ~YMNA~IUM UNIFORM~. . ., TIGHTS . ' SHIRTS, SWEATEJ;lS, STOCKINGS, g.c. A FULL LINE OF EXERCISING APPARATUS HUNTING & FISHING TACKLE, 1 GREEN STREET' ALBANY, N. Y ..

