Civil of Oc- d for Co:m- pur- t\l.e be rent the rrent in on ·'~ EY ~~ . ~ • .! ~ ! ~ I~ II o.) ~ 1 Ill he to U• it Union Men Invited to Williams Dance Vol. 79,_No. 6 trusts Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDA.Y, N·OVEMBER .2, 1951 Engineering Qpen House Underway Now PRICE 10 CENTS ·Crosby Airs Health Plan At L.unch.eon Dr. Edwip. L. Crosby, pres- ident of the American Hos-: pital .Association, told Union · College alumni Saturday that the q1,1estioN of socialized. medicine will be one of the big issues in the coming pr-es- idential campaign. Exhibits_ at Engineering Open· House Dutchmen 'S.eek Upset Win Over ·Powerful Ephmen By William P. Mohmlann TrllJiru!,n Fa v.1>rs Bill Speaking at a luncheon in Hale HoUse as part of the annual Home- coming Weekend, DJ:. Crosby, an, alurt.nus trustee of Union and a member of the dass of ''29, pointed. The Union College football team, looking for its thkd straight victory, will face its most formidable opposition since its opening encounter with St. Lawrence when they meet Williams College at Williamstown, Massachusetts to-- morrow. This wiU be the first away game for the Garnet since the R.P.I. contest, four weeks ago. ------~ Impressive Against Hobart a;::==============i'l Coach Hamrnerstzom's eleven has out that President Truman favors the portion. of the l\[urray-W:ag·ner- Dingle bill now under consideration by the SE)nate, ·While Senator Taft, who originally backed· the blll, has now withdrawn his support and. come aut aga-inst it. The backers of the original bill, he explained, are tryir.g to E et it through Congress in parts, and the portion now being debated deals with federal aid to· medical and nursing educatjo. He said tq_at Taft withdrew his support of rhe bill shortly before he announcecl that he would actively seek the RepUblican presidential nomina-. tion. · Dr. Crosby poir.ted out the firm stand against socialize<l medicine in any form takeQ: by the Ameri\ can Medical Association, He went 011. to say that Great Britain has Scenes at the Engineering and Pattern Follower exhibits, in the Eiectrical Engineering Building, both of which ·are from G.E.'s \More Power to America\ Train, and (bottom row, left to. right): students investigating the use of SR-4 strain guages in the proocess. of stressing a steel 1-beah; and the use of a. Rockwell Hardness Tester in Mechanics of Materials Lab, both in the Civil Engineering Building. · BULLETIN! The rocket flares attached to a time-clock apparatus amidst the $20,000 organ pipes caused the explosion during Dr. Elmer Tidmarsh's recital this morning in Memorial Chapel. An investigation is being con- ducted to discover who rigged the device. A reliable informer assures us that the culprit is a student. One noted campus red paster · immediately suspected· a Com• Iilunist plot to ha,lt the playing by Dr. Tidmarsh of \bourgeous music.\ had some form of Socialized medi- . d cine for many years and today it Indepen ents :a~~::~ted as a necessi~y by both Impulse· Ge·nerator·. Vortex Tube . . . . Support for Mentally m , , Present Plan Dr. Crosby, who is director of Sh E e , 0 t~~n~r~~!~in~t~~:pi~~l, 1:~~!~:~ ' own at . ngtneer s ·.pen. House . For Approval hospitals. ,More than one-half of the hospital beds in -the country ' . • ·· A constitution for the pro- are in. mental hospitals, which are The Engmeermg Open House, currently in progress in the Civil and Electrical Engi- posed \Independent Council\ substantially support~d in this neering buildings is a second attempt by the Electrical and Civil engineering students at has been drafted and it will work by government subsidatlon, showing high school students, as well as local residents and students from other courses be presented to the Student he declared, and two-thirds of all f th · t t · t f th t · · ' 1 · · hospital care is provide<! by the some ·O e more m eres mg aspec s o e wo engmeenng curr1cu a. Council at its meeting Tues- government in one way or another. Sponsored by AlEE and ASCE day night. He said that he felt a plan .for· , L.ast year, the Open House ex- an arc of 100,000 volts traveling Ph •1 PI Meeting on Nov. 14 the care of veterans t(l be given• hlblt was found to be so success- upward between a widening gap. ' •. OS an The draft has been 'Composetl by through the local community has- ful that ~he stud~nt branches ~f Vortex Tubes and Diesel Engines a committee consisting of Oscar pita! would be sounder therapeu- the A~~ncan Institute of Ele~trJ- The various diesel engines in the . Three MeetS Grusky, Hueston Collingwood, Pat tically and financially then the cal Engmeers, and the Amencan Lakshminarsu and Daniel :t\ll:C- present practice of -using veteran Society of Civil Engineers, thought Heat Engines lab, last year as Graw. A me~ting of all independ· hospitals· alone. He then stated it would be advantageous to re- well as this afternoon, were very 'l'he Philomathean Debating team ents will be held in Me~orial (Continued on Page 4) peat it this year in the hope that popular with the young and old will have its active weekend year, Chapel, November 14 at noon to -~~, 0 it would become popular enough to alike. While in this lab they were this Friilay and Saturday, when it approve the draft. The Committee IFC R • t 'become a regular yearly occur- permitted to witness the Vortex, travels to Williams, Hamilton and on Student Affairs and Relations . · . eJ·ec· s renee. or Hilsch Tl,lbe, in action. This is .Albany State Teachers College to has decided not to take any action . . , As the photographs on this page a device which produces a. heating compete in inter-collegiate debat- in connection with the organiza- c t •t t• show, all the equipJI!ent on ex- effect at one end of a tube, while ing. tion. . ons 1 u lOll hibit Is operated by the students thedreTish.froist fourmeidngbyonstohmeeotshoer, rt A team bf four peopie will visit 'The purpose of the organization in the two departments, some of en · IS 8 ca s .Albany State this Friday night, to will be to \provide for the social The Inter-Fraternity Council at the experiments requiring a.n ex- of a phenomenon not yet un(!.er- 'debate at 8 p.m. the national topic, needs and welfare .of those stu- its meeting Tuesday unanimously tensive knowledge of fluid me- stood, according to Professor \Resolved that the Federal Gov- dents that are not members of fra- rejected the con-stitution of the In- chanics, thermodynamics, and m~ Walter Lowen. ernment Should Adopt a Perma'i1- ternities.\ The membership shall depenrlent Organization solely be- chanica o:l! m:>Jerials, In the Civil< Another very appealing exhibit . ent System of Wage and Price consist of all students that are not cause the Constitution makes no Engineering Department; and di- is the impulse generator which pro· Controls.'' The Union af.firmative members of fraternities, except provision for ·rushing students. H rect 11-nd a~ternating current ma- duces voltages in the ranges of a team will be Eliot Loshak and those who specifically indicate that w&a pointed out that if the Inde- · chinery, industrial and conuminica- quarter of a million volts. This Lawrence Levine. Norman Scull they do not wish to remain hi the dehdent organization is .allowed to tions e1ectrohics', In the Electrical produces an @-l'tificial lightning and William Ketchum will repre- organization. • take any member at any t~me, and Engineering field. bolt which is capable of splitting sent the negative. The governing body shan· be if. fraternity rushing is deferred, Some of the more popular ex- a block Qf wood. Tomorrow morning, cor:tinuing a called the independent council. It the indepe,ndent organization will hibits last year haye been fopnd The Electrical Engineering De- ten year custom, the Union De- shall consist of seven members· have a freE) reitl on student sup- to be equally .as appea1ii)g this partment is also permitti1.1g visitors haters will dE;>bate Williams College, elected at large from the member- port. afternoon, in the first session of to their exhibit to test their horse- prior to the football game. Repre- ship. The officers of the council It was expressed that the desire the exhibition. They include the poWer. They have on exhibit a senting Union on the affirmative shall be a president and a secre- of the Inter-Fraternity council is \Jacob's Ladder\ .,which involves (Continued on Page 4l (Continued on Page 4) tary-treasurer. not against an independent or· ganization, but that it wants it Than His Name ~::e~ra\~~n~~:~ rushing rules as. Muni Zudekoff' s. Music Simpler Four Weeks Notice 1 J hs of his choice will be givlin to the. Buddy Mororw has had a tre- B ·dd. M d h t k-· \th A motion was also passed where• By Ha sey osep on u Y orrow an as· s uc w~ N 6 M · z d k ff man with the largest. percentage mendously broad career. His ex~ it ever since. by a persen w11o t'l;pledges one On OV. 1 • UDl u· e 0 of sales as determined by the num-' perien,ce ranges from the New Or- \' house must wait four weeks after and his wayward minstrels her of potential sales in his house l~ans. Jazz of Joseph (Sharkey) Buddy served for three years In notifying the President of the will sto.p in. at Union College's or on his dorm floor. Bonano, all thE) W!lY to Arturo 'J;'os- the _Navy. After his discharge, he I.F.C. before another house can f f It join\ed Jimmy Dorsey as lead trom- p ledge .him. This time limit is to Alumni Gymna~ium for a The admission chiJ.rg~ ... or acu .Y canni and the celebrated N.B.C. b . t · · · t B d ' members will be $1.20, federal tax. Orchestra. He has appeared also oms · insure ail othe~; houses of the notic while. That IS o say, U O\Y Help students will be given com- with the . bands of Artie .Shaw,. A:fter signing an R.C.A. Victor .ficatiC?n of the de-pledg:ng. Morrow and his Orchestra plimentary tickets after they sign Eddy Duchin, Paul Whitman, Vin- recording contract in 195d, Buddy Prom tickets were handed out will be featured at the Grid- up for them at the Student Activi- ·cent Lopez, Bob Crosby, and Morrow changed his orchestral to the respective houses and the . h\ h . • ties office. Tommy Dorsey, a trombonist of . style to a strict dance tempo as P oint was made th. at this year each· iron Ball w lC lS commg up · · Pri G u Late some note background for his trombine. person's name will be matched two weeks from Frida:y. · ces 0 P r · · · with the number of his ticket so On 'l'uesday, November 18, the .1\t the age of thirteen, Morrow His records, Which he cut with that nbt ·more th<tn one couple can Tickets Are $'7;20 price of · Prorn tickets will be was playing in local orchestr!ls, At his new or.chestra, have been best- improved steadily as the season has progressed, but will be hard·pressed by the powerful Ephmen. Aftcz: dropping two of their first three games, the· Dutchmen have been victorious in their last cmttests against Champlain and Hobart. Un.llrdogs against Hobart, tne Garnet emerged with an ini:r;res- sive victory. Williams will be out to repeat its victory of last year when they took the measure of the Dutchmen,' 14-13, in a hard fought decision. After losing to Lehigh, 20-6, the Ephmen have won four straight contests, defeating Connecticut, 7·6;. Bowdoin, 13-12; Massachusetts, 14-7.; and Tufts, 19-0. Tbe Ephmen will definitely be favored in Sat- urday's contest but Hammerstrom believes that his men have an out- side chance of upsetting their pow- erful opponents. Ephmen Deeper The Ephmen move equally well in the air and on the ground. Di· recting their attack is Paul Cramer, wbo does most of the Union Williams O'Loughlin L E Missimer Friday L T Stolz Kennedy LG Meehan Salerno C Kraft Guerra. R G Salmon O'Meally R T Sims Oram R E Percy Giambruno Q B Cramer Hlingberg L H Kulsar Snyder R H Dorsey Dickson FB McAleenan passing and John Kulsar, a pow- erful running back. Definitely in their favor is the fact that· they have more depth than the Garnet. This will be the 43rd meeting be· tween the two schools since 1903. Union is far behind in the series, having won only ten contests while Williams has won 28. There have been four ties. Hammerstrom's eleven is prob- aply in the best condition since the beginning of the season. The only doubtful starter is freshman .back Don Ree<l Reed, after being ·otit of the lineup for three games, re· turned to action last week only to have .his knee injury aggravated (Continued on Pat.e 3) ---oo~-~ Meeting Set For Monday The first meeting o'f the year of the Student Body of Union College will be held Monday at noon in Memorial Chapel as the regularly scheduled (Ially chapel. The new constitution of the stu- dent body, which was accepted by the Stu<lent Council last week after a committee of the council had ·spent six months worlting on the revision, will be presented to the students for final ratification. Copies of the· final draft of the constitution have been mimeo- graphed and will be posted at strategic places around the campUs for' examination by the students before the meeting. come in on a ticket. Tickets are priced at $7.20 and raised to $8.40. The date for the 17, he came to New York and won sellers across the country and have This year the collE)ge is planning may be obtained from any I.F;~. advancement in .price has been set a scholarship .at the Julliard School raised him to the position of lead- to print a fraternity song book, representative or the proctor m a day earlier this year to give the of Music. Six months later; he gpt ii:!g one of the best bands in the and the J:,F.C. was asked that each your dorm. TheY will also be on winning salesman time to place the a job with Artie Shaw which Mor- nation.:, . The new constitution was pre- pared in an effort to eliminate the loopholes which appeared in the old version and to clarify many points of procedure concerning the Student Council arid the student body. house present any fraternity song sale at the Student Activities of- order for his free corsage, row considers the tur-ning point Buddy Morrow believes hi play- that they might have in orchestra- fice for those who can't give their The forms for the date lists of his career. ing \the kind of music that the tion form. business to the other salesmen. which will appear in the Concortly . audience wants to hear.\ With this :i?r.esident Willard G. Taylor al~o The Prom florist is Ray Felt- have been sent to all fratern~tl' Served 1 n Navy in mind, It is Cl\!rtaln that the high anhotmced that a junior and senior .hansen, His prices will be twenty- houses a~d have .been poste~ in .At t~is point he was still playing standards of excellence previously repxesentative of the I.F.d. wQuid percent. u~der list and twenty per· South !Lnd We,st Colleges. These under his given name of Muni, set by such bands 1¥ Claude Thorn- ' be .sent to the Eastern Inter-F. ra- ·cent under any oth,er bid received. lists· should be completed and Zudekoff. But as he ,saw his musi- · hill and ~alph Flanagan at other· · · f rly ·h·. a-nde· d· 1\n to the Concordy office cal actr\vr·tJ'es broa\'ening h U · C 11 p · .....,,! b ternity Conference .. -to be held !!>t This means a savn'lg o · .nea . · · · u• , e mon_ · o ege roms, vv u . e up- ; · · · w · h e ·no ·later han noon on. Tuesday, Ntr thought a simpler· n · ld b h ld b th t B dd ·the University of Vermont on the. thirty perce11t on flowers, e av . , . · . . . ame wou e e Y e gre!l. new u y weekend 0 g Novexnb~r ,9-10. learned, too, that a free corsage vember 18. neces:;~ary. He took the name Movrow Orchestra. In Memoriam The Concordiensis extends its 1llOSt sincere condolences to Dr ... . and Mrs. Carter Davidson on the death of Mr. Joseph Breck- enridge Brown of Louisville, Kentucky, M r s. D a v ids o n'a father.

-I I I l I '\ , I I 2 bitusta By Arthur Rosenfeld and' Don Simmons Membe•· Assoelntetl C'ol- legiMe Pt•ess and distri- butor of tho Collegiate DigeH. :\ationaJ. Adver- tising Repre•entatiYe: :-.:a- llonal Aclverti~inp; Service. Inc., College Publish!:!rs Representatire, 420 :\ladi- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lished every I•'r!day of the sl'hool year. Editorial OffiPe,vVashburu .Ha~l~ L'UJOIL C'ulh:gt!. l'ul.J .. 11<-~ttinu ( lff I'P, ThP !Ia. zotto• l'l\e 331 State St. Elltl'l·ul ill the ~l'hellt'l'· tady l'o~t Oft'i<'e as Sec- ond l'la>s :lla•l ~latter, sub~t·rlption hie a l'OPY: $3 y uar deli Yert:d an·y· wlu~l't! iu th.: L\uH~d­ ~tates SE\IO!t BOAHU DONALD K SL'll\VAHTZ 'G2 . .. .. .. .... .. .. I·:,htur-iu L'ltit·:' MAHVI:-1 1 •. KUH:-.: '53. . . . . . . . . . . • ... ~.lanHglllg Etii !'or vV'ILI~-\RP 0. TA YLO!t '5~ .......................... As<ol'iate Editor JOB:-: J. l'ASSIDY 'fi·3 . .. ...... . .. ... . =-:ew;; Etiitor JOH:-: 1'. KJ·::--:::-;r-;py ·:;~ ..................... H:><•1t\ E•litor MONIUl!-~ SILYI·:It:\IA:-.: 'fi~ .. .. .. .. . .. . . . .. .. 1-\.-ature Etlitot· ARTI!t•n !\!. ::<TtH'K~IA::-: ·~.~ ........ L'opy Editor ALA:-< S. FOR~ I A:\: •:,~ . . .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .. . l'lwtu.;ruphy Edi t\l' LEO KlTI'I·~HHl'I-Dll\l '5~ . .. .. .. . .. .. . .. . .. . .. Bu-in~>'H :lla.nager In this decade, ·We a,re constant- ly confronted with exairples of the decline of .public morality. This trend reached Vlhat was possibly an aH time low with the recent example of mental cowardliness e:-tpoun• i>d by- Senators Gillette ard Smith in reference to the appoint- ment of Ambassador-at-Larg-e Philip C. Jessup as a zr.ember of the U. S. delegation to the U.N. A line of reason VI as produced that could find little to equal it in th·e chan- cellories or· executive charr.bers of the r:rost despotic totalitarianisms that our generation has known! reason which becorr.es appar;nt in these statements. Through some unacc<>untable fear on the pad of these men, (.perhaps the approach- ing elections), they have decided that it is no longer necessary to prove beyond a reasonable ·doul;>t that a person is unfit to hold a government position. The new procedure is now .merely one ·of re- jecting anyone who has had his integrity sufficiently smeared to cause even the smallest measure of emotiona:l doubt. This, in ef- fect, puts the senatorial stamp of approval on· one ·of' A. Hitler's fa- vorite techniques. Tell a lie often enough, and loud enough, tie it in with some appealing emotion .and· your purpose is accomJ?lished. Any- one, regardless of his qualities can avail. h'irr.self of this technique. GEOilGE F. IlEI>l:\\tiTU.:'\ ';J:! ................. t'in·ulatlun ~la.na;:er J l':'il 0 H B 0 A Jt'() MAHTJ:-.: JJ. GUHIJO::-: ·:,~ ................. A\si~tant :\laJ<, .. t'i' Editor ALFRED L. UOLDB81ViEit '54 . .. . . . . . A\\i\tat1t t'up)' E•litor HERB-ERT L. SPIHA 'G~ ....................... A\sistant Copy Editor IRv\'IN s. BARG '53 .......................... A\sistant ::-lports Editor WILI,IA:I! I'. ~!UH.IU1AN ;-.; '53 . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . .\.s-istallt ~ports· Etli tnt· ALF!tl~D H. b':!NllO:if '53 .................... As~istallt Featun Etli tor HERBER~' L. HILI.ER '52 .......................... Ex~ha11ge Editor HOWARD BROllY 'fo2 .............................. Jo:xdmuge Editor GEORGE J. WIU'BI~L '53 ...........•..•. As\i>tallt JJu\i\~\s ~i>'tnaget- HORACE VAN YOAST '52 ... , ........ Assistant l'ill·uiatiull :ll>'tnager- REPORTEitS Kent Coryell, Richard Heimann, Jerome Klein, Lewis Klein, l·~liot Loshak, .l.Iartin Portnoy, Arthur Jtosenfeld. Alf•;ed Swtt, llonaltl >;im- mons; David Smith. <Tll R£PORTER.S Peter Adler, .l.!arvin Bot·is, Arthur Feldman, Herbert Guston, !\l:t<\tln Hauser, \Vard Jones, Gary Katz, Rirhar<l Kt·aft, Daniel ~lanniug, Ian MacDonald, Herbert Wtlliams. Rl'SISESS STAFF Joseph Allen, Robert Bed<, La•,·renre Greenberg, Robert ~iJ,·erman CIRt'l:LATlON :,!T.·U\J Gurtls Bates, J. Lowell lJavis, Joe .),la;rtiu, David Brown. Jame\' F'ltz- maurice, Richard Boret. Support For Independent Group Several weeks ago, a proposal was introduced at the Stu- dent Council meeting to create, under the auspices ·Of the Council, an ''Independent Council\ to provide for the social needs of non-fraternity men. The Council shelved the issue until a constitution is submitted f1H its approval. We expect this issue to provol;e some heated discussion, for the proposal, on the surface both sound and innocuous1 will arouse some of the vested interests on campus to o:ppose it. For example, this editorial d0'€s not have the unanim<>us endorsement of the Concordiensis. Need Is Urgent We believe that the need for an independent org-aniza- tion is vital and immediate. Approximately 30c;t would 1ike to belong to some group that provides for social needs. The fraternities on this campus are at present unwilling to under- take 100% pledging by a preferential list system. If that is to continue, then something new nmst arise for the interests of the 30o/o. The original proposal, we feel, was weak. It provided only for a governing body of such an organization with the bare title, \Independent CounciL\ All non-fratemity men were included in this organization. We would sug·gest, rather, that an organization be establishedt with a title, to include all non-fraternity men who ·wish to join_ That group can then work out its own organtzation. We feel that the proposal as first suggested placed the cart before the horse. Why should some groups on camp.us oppose such a sug- gestion? It is obvious that a body representing 30% of the students would constitute a powerful organ on campus. This body would be far more powertu1 than any single fraternity and it could rival the strength of the Interfraternity Coun- cil. These vested interests would find it to their disadvan- tage if an organization should arise that would integrate the 30% of the campus that is essentially outside any organiza- tion. However, we feel it would be for the betterment of the camp-us if this non-fraternity club is forJ1!ed as soon as possi- ble. We urge the Student Council to dispel charges of lethargy made against them recently by forming this club as soon as possible. D.E. S. If We Must Have Chapel Not too many years ago, this newspaper violently urged the abolition of compulsory weeltday chapel. There is no doubt that we lost that battle and it subsequently became a dead issue. We no longer urge the abolition of chapel. However, we feel that the administration has a responsibility to the stu- dents if compulsory chapel is to he continued. It is senseless to force students to attend chapel if all that they are going to hear is 20 minutes of sophorno1·ic gibberish_ Good ~hapel programs are as essentiai a part of the compulsory chapel policy as is attendance by the students. Treat Us as (()lJege Men The administration has criticized the student body at times for rudeness displayed to the speakers. :Before the speaker has had a chance to get off the stage, half the hall is emptied. No doubt this is wrong-, for common courtesy is the least one should expect fi·om a supposedly college level audience. On the other hand, let's have programs directed at a college level audience. There is no need to mention names, except to exclude the Friday concei·ts of Dr. Elmer Tidrnarsh, but by and large, poor taste has been exhibited in arranging fot speakers. It isn't fair to ask the students to keep coming ' to chapel 30 times a semester unless they are going to· dm·ive benefit from it. D.E. S. The committee's approval was refused by a vote of 3 to 2 and the appointment was killed. In a la;ter statement, .Senator Gillette said that although the evidence showed that Mr. Jessup was, \a man of great mental a;bility, a man of honesty and Integrity,\ he felt it necessary to vote for rejection as Mr. Jessup had lost the public confidence. This was so even though this loss of confidence may have been due, \to the concerted campaign of unfair and unprin- cipled attacKs made on him.\ Senator Smith went one revolting step further in his stateme!}t by saying-, \I have absolute confidence in <Mr. Jessup's) integrity, ability and loyalty to his country ... \ but, \he is a controversial figure.\ It takes neither long nor careful consideration to be completely nauseated by the line of cringing Our government carried out on this basis becomes the efficient tool of the first loud mouthed ty- rant that comes along. Truth is no longer necessary. .AU th.at... is needed ·is enough hot wind to carry the rable rouser's willful voice. The ac·cuser's character is unchallenged as well -as his pur- pose. Anyone ·with enough dirty words and a strong voice can get his chance. Under these circumstances, we find it vet\'J· difficult to determine just what the senators are pro- tecting; the itnegrity of an in- dividual's loyalty and ability, or the opportunity- for some misfit to obtain power through slander! For Your Information FRIDAY, NOV. 2-Daily assembly, recital, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, assist- ed by Miss Peggy Pashler, violinist, MC, noon; Engineers Open House, General and Electrical Engineering laboratories; Play production, Han- na Hall, 1-6 p.m.; Choir rehearsal, MC, 4:30 p.m.; Concert by the Oc- tavo Singers, JY,IC, 8 p.m., \Hia- watha's Wedding Feast\ and Liszt's \Thirteenth Psalm.\ Student tick- ets at door. SATURDAY, NOV. 3-Var:sityfoot- ball, Union vs. Williams at Wil- liamstown, 1:30 p.m.; Jr. Varsity football, Union vs. Morrisville at Schenectady, 2 p.m.; Varsity SOC\ cer, Union v~. Champlain at Sche- nectady, 2 p.m. SUNDAY, NOV. 4--Preacher, Pres- Ident Russell Henry Stafford of the Hartford Seminary Foundation, MC, 11 a.m.; Organ Recital, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, MC, 4 p.m.; Reforma- tion Day Service, MC, 7:30 p.m. Speaker, Prof. Richard Wolfe of the Yale Di.vinity SchooL MONDAY, NOV. 5-Daily assem- bly, Student Body Meeting, MC, noon, Medical Aptitude Test CE 106; Play production, Hanna Hall, 1-6 p.m.; GJJ.ee Club rehearsal, OC, 7 p.m.; Delphic Society (Trig. Tutoring), BH-101, 7:30p.m.; .Amer- ican Assn. of University Women, OC, 8 p.m.; Lecture under auspices of THE EVANGELIST FORUM, MC, 8:30 p.m.; The Rev. Daniel .A. Lord, S. J. Student ticl,ets at door, 60 cents, TUESDAY, NOV. 6-M.AKE-UP TESTS. VOTE! Daily assembly, speaker, Pr-of. Karl M. Schmidt, MC. P.OQn; PelpP,ics <Physics 4a, Math 2a, Math la and German la tutoring) Bailey hall, 106-7-9 and 101); Lecture under auspices of Young Married Group of Burnt Hills Methodist Church, MC: 8 p.m. Speaker \and forum leader, Dr. (}race Sloan Overton, \This Busi- ness of Being a Parent in Today's World,\ $1.00, tax included. • WEDNESDAY, NOV. 7 -M.AKE- UP TESTS. Varsity soccer, Union \Ts. N.Y. State Teachers College at Albany, 3 p.m.; Christian Assn. Silliruan Hall, 7:30 p.m.; Play pro- duction, Hanna Hall, 1-6 p.m.; Glee Club rehearsal, OC, 4:30 p.m.; Delphics (Tutoring in Chem. 1a), Bailey hall 101, 7:30 p.m.; Bilnd re- hearsal, Trophy Room, Gym, 7:30- 10 p.m.; American Assn. of Univer- sity Professors, Faculty Lounge, 8 p.m.; .American Chemical Society, Chemistry Lecture Room, 8:15p.m. Speaker, H. A. Laitimen, Univer:: sity of Illinois, \Amperometric 'l'itiatrions\; COLLEGE CONCERT (Cooperative Evening Assemblies), MC, 8 p.m. Symphony Orchestra directed by Edward A. Rice, TWO POIN'I'S CREDIT. THURSD.AY, NOV. 8-Daily as- sembly-, Mr. Orla Jensen, Director of Welfare, Denmark, Europe, MC, noon; College Concert by Soulima Stravinsky, MC, 8 p.m. TWO POIN'I'S CREDIT: ASME, EE-22, 8 p.m.; Fraternity Night. FRIDAY, NOV. 9-AD-INTERIM SCHOLARSHIP REPORT. Daily Assembly- •. Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, MC, noon; Flay production, Hanna Hall, 1-6 p.m.; Choir rehearsal, MC, 4:30· p.m.; Faculty Men's Club, Faculty lounge, B p.m. lYiake- Up Tests· Make-up tests will be given Tues- day and Wednesday, November 6 and 7. Make-up test schedules will be posted Saturday '?? +he various bulletin boards throughout the campus. Invitation to Union Men- The following invitation was re- ceived from the Williams College Purple Key Society addressed to all Union men. Gentlemen: With the coming of the Union game this weekend, we thought it would be a good idea for us to write to your student body and ex- tend an invitation for what prom- ises to be a fairly active weekend here at Williams. Besides the many cocktail parties which will follow shortly after the game, and the suppers at the vari- ous clubs and houses; the Purple Key Soc:iety is sPOnsoring a big dance on· Saturday- nig-ht from 8 to 12. The Key Society is composed of all the captains of the Williams varsity teams, and it has been the policy of the Society to present a dance every year. I am afraid that it is financially impossible for us to assume total financial responsibility for the dance, as we have a certain budget which we must stay within. How- ever, we have decided to set a special rate of $1,00 per couple for all our visitors :from Union, We really feel that this should not be too rnuch considering that ·there will be dancing from 8 to 12 to a good band, an intermmsion show by ou.r own octet and a Smith octet, and set-ups and soft drinks will be provided free pf charge. The dance will be held in the Garfield Club, and no stags will be admitted, either from Williams or Uni<>n. ..., That just about covers it, gentle- men. We sincerely hope that we will see a great many of you up here this weekend, and hope that you can make the dance. Sincerely yours, George M. Steinbrenner, Presiden~Purple Key St;~elety 0 Letter A ward Chestefield Cigarettes are spon- soring a letter-to-the-editor con- test a.gain this year . .A carton of Chesterfields will be awarded bi- monthly to the best letter received during- a two weeks period. For the periqd ending last Friday, the first award of this year goes to Davis Griffith and Herbert Schmer.tz. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1951 Fraternities Go to Dogs; Take ~Over Five Houses By Eliot Loshak . Tl1et·ea.1:e at least five fraternities on the Umon Colle~e campus whose membership includes more than the men m the heuse. These fraternities have dogs as humse pets. We made the rounds ·of the houses the other day and found out all about these fixtures on the campus. Tlte ;()ne and Only ~--=------~----~- Sigma Clll was our first stop. Brian Kilpatriclt for the summer The Sig •Chis !lire \very proud .and and over vacations. fond of Sig, a very small Belgian The number of campus animals Shepherd d<>g. Slg Is all black and may be increased as Kappa N.u is stands just 18 inches off the\ considering getting a .dog while the ground. .She· is the only bitch on Betas a1•e thinking about gettin~ a the ·campus and. .as such comes iil baby panther. for a great .dea,l of attention from ---o~·--- the male dogs. She is two years c 0 l Ae old and has been the Sig Chi pet ounci liDS since she was 'two months old. Sig stays at the Sig Chi house over the n· · • d summer ·in the care of the men ·. lSCu·sse ·.'. who live :there in the summer. Her favm·ite ,pastime is chasing squir- rels, Accol·ding to Rube Johnson, Sig is not much of a watchdog, but serves her function as a pleas- ant, much-loved .pet. The neKt bouse we visited was Phi Gar:mna Delta. The Phi Gam dog is .Sam, a big, brown mongrel. Sam is :tnostly hound and German Shepher-d: He is ~8 months old and the ·?'111 Gams have had him for nine months. He is very ag- gressNe and loves to fight and .play with the •other dogs. Sam stays in the F'hi Gam house 'in the summer- time with .tbe Phi Gam summer students. We couldn't get any ·com- ment on the subject, buqt it seems to us as If Sam would make a very good watchdog. .Ad~pted Mutt Tile Phi Delts have as their pet an Irish setter named Phi. Phi is all r-ed ex.cept for a white blotch on his chest. The Phi Delts dis- covered ;him straying around their house last Thanksgiving. They put an a.d In the paper- tryihg to return him to hls o\Wner. When they got no ans\\Wer, they adopted him as their .pet. Phi chases squirrels a lot with Sig and also loves to fol- low Lennie Klingberg around the Thursday's Chapel program was devoted to the second in a series of talks on \Community Respon- sibility,\ with Paul Benjamin as guest speaker. Benjamin, who at- ten< 13d .Syracuse and Columbia Uni- versities, is Executive Secretary ·Of the Schenectady Related Activities Council, and: spoke on the topic, \The Discovery of the Individual;\ The Related Activiti'es Counci'l, as the speaker defined it, ois \.A Federation of Social and Health Activities.\ The Council's aims are to solve the problems of the people in general in the city of· Schenec- tady. Cases Illustrated Three typical cases that the Council helped to solve were dis- cussed. They concerned the posi- tion of the Boys Club in prevent- Ing delinquency, an attempt .to per- suade a church or an agency to become a club for older people, anti an injuiry into the marital troubles of a college graduate. Benjamin concluded by stating that such groups as the Council and Aid Bureaus are a new phe- nomena, sho\\ing people's interest in the p~oblems of the individual. ---o--- campus.. Phi· goes home with D N t\ Ellie H:arp and Dave Lent in the ' orm 0 ICe summertime and over vacations. The fourth member of the doggy set is Darby, the pet of Delta Phi. The D Phis just got Darby at the beginning of; this year. He is a black poodle, three years old. Darby used• to fight and play with all the otller dogs on the campus but now confines his social life to an occasional scrap with Sam. Chasing s<Juirrels is a favorite ac- tivity of Dal:\by-'s too. The D Phis are undec;:ided as to Darby's fate this su.:tnmer\. Darby never gives the D Phis a.ny- trouble and is well- liked by all of his masters. Fro-m Sig by Freddes Kappa Sign~a completes the list of stops on our route. Freckles, a year old mongrel, is the Kappa Sig pet. He js pa:rt beagle and part dalmatian. The Kappa Sigs got Freckles Vlhen he was six weeks old. :a:e i.s very virile and pays a good deal of attention to Sig. Freckles llas a very pleasing dis- position and is loved by all the Kappa Siga, He goes home with L:UIGI'S lEST AURANT; Speeiafizing in ltalian-America11 Food II 25 BARRETT ST. Schen. 6-,744 Eniov our Sizz:llncJ Steaks and Chops .. -- --·-'-------- ~ 'I s - u . I .M I 1 ernng · n1on s en 1 1 For Years I 1 I 1 See you.- a9ent on· Campus I : UNITED : I CLEANERS : :· TAILORS 1 I •i>llone 4-5676 I I 'I• 14 Stale St. near Ferry : 1!. ........ --------· ·-------------~-------- : Gl-as~s That Fit Properly f f Accuraie Prompt Service I 1 T <> 'Your Optical Needs 1 I ~ : James DiNapoli ! ' Di~pensing Optician I i PHONE 4-7906 I' f 98 Jll.:y St. Schenectady, N. Y. · .i __ . __ :::: .. ::_:: .. ____ j \ The $34.0(} for board fee will be payable with the dormitory rent at the Business Office between the dates Nov. 12-16. The new books for meal tickets for the second half of the current semester should ·be picked up In West College from Mrs. Briggs on Nov. 6 or 7 between the hours 11:30 a.m. and 5 p.m. Room rent of $50.00 for the sec- on<l half of 'the current semester. will be payable at the Business Of- fice .between the dates November 12-16 inclusive during the hours of 8:30a.m. and 12 noon and 1:00 p.m .. and 3:30 p.m. A late payment fee of $5.00 will be due after November 16. GOOD SHOES FOR · STUDENTS and 'FACULTY Patton & Hall X-RAY FITTING 245 State St.-Since 1895 • Watches, Jewelry Clocks Repaired • Engraving, too! Jay Jewlery Co. FRIDAY, The victory ! Saturda~ son, whi~ Klingber Dt Most si: defensive Dutchmen held to 1· ground as gained by Hobart of slow in g first quar failed. to b:ito' Unic until the : Letilllia b< visitors co Union 1 during th stopped t• line with third driv~ the Hobar period clof ·snyder to: touchdowiJ In the e;11 after Jess. tra point. su Hobart 1 kickoff, o· series of consecutiv quarterbac Union 10, master th1 ducked ac of Letizia' Jet tosses : 18 tries co Union ' the result when Kli1 and raced side of th• touchdowr opened a i .past the s chance of made the was g-ood !ng for tl Snyder. period anc to the 1J stopp~d. tack ripp defenses a Dickson n own 5 ya1 march th Union's 1. showed h' as he buc first dowl ball over line, The s Hobart fenses ba• line befor the third the last 1 secondary der's pas1 Hobart oJ Union's 3 penalties Letizia to de~ inter• the 15. The Dt the ball, f recovered it and bi~ it on the .............. BRITJ o'4UUiiil,lllll SAVE N~ 54.7 \

1 is .a aS as at- ·Of pic, \A are the dis- ent- per- to ting phe- I be rent the kets rent in on ours sec- of p.m\' fee v FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1951 Garnet Eleven Downs Powerful Hobart, 27 ... 6 Where's Everybody? Garnet Harriers Outclass Champlain With 15-50 Win By Irwin Bar!:/ The returning alumni were treated t0 a surprising 27-6.' victory by the Dutchmen over a favred Hobart team last' Saturday. Union put on its best offensive display of the sea- son, which was sparked by an 80 yard run to pay dirt by Len Klingberg, and two touchdown. passes by halfback BiB Snyder. Dick Dolan crossed the finish line fi1·st Wedn..esday to pace Union's cross-country team to a perfect 15-50 victory over I tremendously outclassed Champlain College. Dol~n, in win- ning, encountered stiff winds and a muddy course but made the course in 27:17, thus failing to break the record held by former RPI ace Tony Diamond, made two years previously. Dutchmen Gain 318 ~- · Most signifi~nt was tightened halfbacks then brought the ball to; defensive play on the part of the thE) 11 yard line and, after an 11!, Dutchmen. The Statesmen were yard loss, Snyder connected with: held to 143 yards gained on the Oram in the end zone. Dickson's' ground as compai,ed to 3J.8 yards extra point ended the scoring in.' gained by Union ,on l'Ushing. The , • the ,game, although Hobart ·reached . Hobart offensive was particularly· the 8 yard line before running out' slow in getting underway in the · of downs and time. first quarter, duri·ng which they Don Reed, who had not seen any·:- failed to produce one long drive action since hurti·:tlg his kne€: bito' Union terr.itory. It wasn't against RPI, returned to the de-,' until the second period, when Lee fensive lineup, but was hurt againi• Leti21ia began passing, that .the early in the .first period. · I'en K!ingberg., hart! I'Unning Union tailba-ck, crosses goal line visitors could 11011 up any yardage. ~--·o---- at end. of 80 yard jaunt. Union moved .the ball quickly <.1>·--- :~~~~d t~:i;~r~~sr;:i~f;e b2~t y:~~ .Booters to F.~. ace William JV Gridders Open line without scoring. On their _ third drive, the Dutchmen were on F. J . <Continued from Page ll .. H•·ere WI\th Agg.IeeS the Hobart 22 yard line when the . ace , · ays again. Tf ReQd does see any action period closed, but on the next play he wHl play the defensive and Pete Nistad's jayvee football 'Snyder tossed the first of his two The varsity .boaters seek to im-; • safety post. touchdown passes to Randy Oram · prove their 1-3 season's log tomor-; The probable starting lineup team opens its season here tomor- ln the end zone. Union led 7-0 row, when they play host to Cham-! will cOt1tinue intact. Seniors Randy row against a stror::g Morrisville after Jesse Dickson booted the ex- plain on Daley Field at 2 :OO p.m.1 Oram and Jerry O'Loufhlin will eleven. Kickoff time is scheduled tra point. 'l'he Bluejays, although not noted':· cover the end positions on both Statesmen Retaliate for their skill and experience, are;: offetlse .ar::d defense. Both men for two p.m. at Alexander Field. a hard running squad and in great: have been playing fine ball and The Aggies, traditionally fielding a powerful team, a:re again loaded with talent. In winning their first three games, they have demon- strated a powerful offense that is -:backed up by a stone wall of a defense. Hobart moved the ball, after the physical shape. Cor.sequently the 1 making some spectacular catches. kickoff, over the Union goal in a Garnet, although favored to win,' Sophomore Bill Fr.iday .and Ed series of plays that featured four wiU be hard pressed aJ.J the way. O'M II ·n I · th t kl consecutive completed passes ·by · ea Y wr P ay m e ac e · spots, while John Kennedy and quarterback Letizia. From the Lost in Overtime i Joe Guerra will play in the guard Union 10, the Statesmen's pass- master threw to Dave .Gorman who The Dutchmen, who in their last: positions. J·irn Salerno will be at , time out dropped a 2-1 overtime. center as usual. ducked across the goal-line. Most contest to an undefeated Rochester' The line has improved from the of Letizia's passes· were short bul- . let tosses and his 11 completions in :eleven,. have been improving an begmr.ing of the year and they season, ancl mentor Franz Gleich: turned in thcir finest perforrr.ance 18 tries covered 96 yards, Union was still leading 7-6, a,s expects his squad to be in top' last week against Hobart. the result of a missed conversion, shape tomorrow. Goalie Jordy! Backfield Intact when Klingberg took a pitchout GI'Penfield has played consistertly. In the backfielc.l, TomGiambruno and raced<80 yards over the right well all season as has Rhein Vogel,. wili direct the team from the side of the line for an electrifying who has netted three ·of the four: quarterback position, Len . Kling- touchdown. Some good blocking Union goals this year. These two berg and Bill Snyder will cover opened a hole in the line 11-nd once boaters,. plus Kari Reinitz, whosei the left and right half spots and .past the secondary there was little defensive play has been super-' freshman Jesse Dickson will be the chance of catching him. Dickson lative, figure to lead the Gleich-' offcrsive fullback. Giambruno has men in tomorrow's encounter .. made the point after touchdow)l taken over as quarterback since was good and that ended the scor- against the Bluejays. John Shade suffered a back injury ing for the first halt. Next Wednesday, the Garnet; which sidelined him for the re- Snyder fumbled during the next travels to Albany to meet an AI- mait1der of the year. Giambruno period and Hobart brought the ball bany State eleven which eked out played previously in the fullback to the Union five before being ·a decision over Champlain last; position when Jesse Dickson was stopp~d. The Garnet running at- week. nuning an injured ankle. tack ripped through the Hobart Union's starting lineup for to- 'Klingberg has been the offer.s- defenses as Klingberg, Snyder, and morrow's clash is as follows: sive star thus far this year. Play- Dickson moved the ball from their G -Greenfield ing with an injured right arm, the own 5 yard line to .the goal, in a LF-Heinzman speedy sophomore has shown march that accounted for 7 of RF-Monroe astondi.ng drive on the grounCI and Union's 18 first downs. Dickson LH-Koenig !)' fine passing as well. Along With showed his power running ability RH-Reinitz Klingberg, Snyder and Dickson as he bucked center for 3 of the RO-:Loeber provide plenty of offensive thrust first downs and then carried the RI -Vogel in the backfield. Snyder, running ball over the goal from the 2 yard CF-Gansmueller .from the right half spot, bas shown line. The score then stood at 20-6. \LI -Rie considerable drive on the ground Snyder Intercepts LO-Gustafsen and also shares the passing duties Hobart pushed the Union de- !J,!Ong with Klingberg. Dickson bas fenses back to their own 18 yard been hampered by a bad leg and line before losing the ball just as We Have Them has not been able to show the form the third quarter ended. Early in which he exhibited in earlier con- the last period, Craig Bramley, a if its tests. secondary, intercepted one of Sny- ~::;::::;::::::;:::;:::;:::;::::;::::;:::::;:;::;::::::;:::;:::;- der's passes on his own 45. The Slac:ks or Pants Hobart offense managed to reach Union's 31 yard line but several penalties held them up and when Letizia took to the air again, Sny- de~;. intercepted a long heave on the 15. The Dutchmen could not move the ball, so Oram punted, but they recovered when Bramley dropped it and big Ed O'Mealy pounced on It on the Union 48'. Union's two 1,000 Pairs to Pick From ROCHESTER PANTS STORE (New Location) 115 BROADWAY Between State and Smith Sts. J.' I Ull Jill 1111111 11111 Jill 1 IIIII I 111 111111 iiiJIIIIIIIIIII 11111111111111111111 I I 111111111111111111111 ':· L. G. BALFOUR GO~~ Fraternity Jewelers EADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY L])]ATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - :KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or call CARL SORENSEN 30 :Muxray Ave. Wat~rford, N.Y. PHONE TROY-ADAMS 8-2523 Morrisville has a double advant- age over the Garnet f!e<l£elings. First, as a two year techr.ical school, they have only one grid team, and secondly, eight of our better fwsh have been elevated to the varsity. Tli'ese two factors de- finitely give the visitors an edge in manpower. Operating from a .buck-lateral single wing formation, the junior Dutchmen will rely on the passin~; arm of Dick Rubin to make up for a running attack that has not dis- played too mueh power as yet. Catching his tosses VI ill be either V e r v i 11 e, W h e e 1 e r o r Brett- schneider. ' a storeful of Fine Gif ts to send home 9 lbs. f.or 7 5c . t;- ... ----- -·- .. - .. ---------------- I . . I 1 DISTINCTIVE MEN'S WEAR 1 1 . il n. 1 ~~~~~~.::~.~ .. :~: .. ~~::::.:: ........... ~.::~.:~:::.~.:=~~:.~:~~ .. J1: Capital Men's Shop~ Inc. : P-~~~~~~~~~~~~~91 1 I I 167 Jay Street Schenee+ady, N. Y. I l I WASHED, DRIED and FOLDED Shirts Finished - Shoe Repair !- Dry Cleaning SAVE 15'% ON FOOD COSTS SAVE 15% NOTT RESTAURANT AND BAR ,,_ ------- -.t- ... --- -1111!11·--- ---- .. ,llliiiiii!II.J ------- ----- ---- - - ---- - For Quick Take-out Orders Call Sch.-6-97_66 i :.!llllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllll'; Garnet Fil'st Dolan led eight :;traight GarnPt- · men across the finish line before the first Champlain man came across. The coursP, a new 4'.6 one, was muddy and hilly. Dick Mech- anic and DavP Brown tied for fifth while John Burr ahd Paul Snvder tied for seventh. Garri Clough. ran second followed by Alan MacKin· non ard John Larkin. This was the last dual and home mt·et of the st·ason for the Ketz· men. They'\'e only lost oncP, and that to the powerhousP of Vermont. Since that first setback, they've successively defeated Midd.Jebi.Iry, Hofstra, RPI, anti now Champlain. All-StatP Meet This week the Ketzmen journey to Alfred for the Small college cross-country meet of New York State. Dolan, who is undefeated this year, is given a very good chance to win in this meet. Coach Ketz believes that if he has any kind of a day he'll cop the trophy, and the tearn should place well up in the finishers. Other teams in the meet include Cortland State Teachers, Harpur College, RPI, Cha-mplain, Oneonta State. Teach- ers, and Alfred University. Ketz has high hopes for winnir.g top honors with his well-balanced squad. Along with the peerless Dolan the veteran Garnet mentor is taking Gary C!oug h, Dick Mech- anic, .Alan MacKinnon, Dave Brown and the other member is as yet undecided or. The choice will fall between the two newcomers, Paul Snyder and John Burr. Both ba ve sho.wn promise in the gruelling event and Snyder seems to have the edge because he is consistently improving his endur- ance. This appearance at Alfred marks the r:.ext to last appearance for the Dutchmen this fall. Intramural Notes Director. of intramura'ls, Arthur C. Lawrence announced today that _entries for the annual volleyball, basketball leagues must be in his office no later than or.e o'clock p.m. Wednesday, November 7. Independent teams are asked- to submit with their rosters the man- ager's name and telephone number, if possible. Lawrence expressed the plan of running volleyball games at night this year instead of the former noon contests. Williams, Sheltoii also Red Badge of Courage Audie Murphy No Highwpy in the Sky • Stewart, Dietrich also Little Tomorrow is Another Day Ruth Roman Hard, Fat and Beautiful Claire Trevor GAZETTE PRESS • FOR Printers • -Wlo;A' ~ ................ ICE CREAM-REMEMBER Say 122 NOTT TERRACE stewarts One Block from Campus House Stewards and Cooks For Economical Dessert - 112 Gal. Pkgs. Stop By.- Make Your Own Sundae or Banana Split CR.)'}AMY DOUBLE DIP FROSTS READY PACK PINTS 30c 35c All Flavors $1.00 Free Delivery on Orders For 1 Gal. or More AT M. B. GRAUBART lr SONS Raw, Steamed Clams · j S § \Meet and Eat at EDDIE'S\ 1:.:=_== your Official Prom Florist I ~~=- 547 Nott St., opposite Green Gate Sch~nectady, N. Y. _ MEAL TICKETS.......$5.75 for $5.00 R ~~~~~~~~ ay ousen 5 Engraving in This Issue Made By Flo we rs DISTINCTIVE CORSAGES ·:!==- Boutonniere Included With All Orders !=: F R E E D ..:E L I V E R Y _ 'I 739 STATE STREET C•ll b-6291 - 2-43.10 i 1.::::::::::::::::::;:;:;::::===================~· · : iuum•mnnamtmamantnanmlnmtmutnllllllllllllllllllllllllllll m 1111111111111~ SCHENEGTADY. N.Y. 147 JAY S'l'Rt:£~ ~ The Ultimate in Dian~ond Value 'I'hat you find only highest grade diamondil in our collection does not :mean they cost more .Jeweler \SERVING SCHENECTADY FOR 3 GENERATIONS\

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER. 2, 1951. 4 ·-' Stafford Speaker . Geologists Hold Mr. Thomas Crowley of the u, s .. In Sun· day ·Ch' a.p. el First Conf ere nee Naval Ordnance Laboratory will Discrimination. Battles Health Plan Placement News (Continued from Page 1) Flair up in Fraternities Debate on non-.discrimination clauses has caused another eruption on the national fraternity scene recently. The Bowdoin c~apter of Delta Upsilon fraternity, dissolved their relationship with the national organization several weeks ago and four University of Connecticut fraternities severed relationships with their nationals because of pressure ap- that certain organizations prefer to -keep veterans in .the veterans' hospitals but ·that it is far better to keep them at home. plied by the university. UConn Outlawed Bias Cla.use ~------------------------------ A member of President Truman •s Advisory Health Resources ' Com~. mittee, Dr. Crosby flew to Sche- nectady from a committee meet- ing in San Francisco, California, in order to address the alumni. He explained that the committee meets every two weeks for two-day sessions. The UConn ruling stated that fraternities w it h discriminatory clauses in their charters must either get rid of them by Septem· bet, or get ·off campus. The four fraternities affected are Lambda Chi Alpha, Sigma Nu, Kappa Sigma, and Sigma Chi. Sigma Alpha Epsilon beat the deadline in getting rid of the bias clauses. The disaffiliation at Bowdoin fol- lowed an almost 11 month suspen- sion by the national as a result of the local's pledging a Negro. The issue arose when an alumnus black-balled the initiating of a Negro pledge. The members form- ed the Delta Club to replace the former Delta Upsilon chapter. Charged as \Unfraternal\ stood them: not only by acting as a discriminatory fraternity but also by acting in this manner by virtue of a secret \gentleman's agreement.\ They voted unani- mously to withdraw from Delta Upsilon. Editorial Backs Local Only Four D()()tors Drafted Discussed at the most recent meeting were the lack of hospital beds available because of the short- age of nurses, the p~_oblem of ob- taining blood for military and civilian ust; and the present draft law concerning doctors, he said. An editorial in the Bowdoin \Orient\ supported the action of Up to now, he stated, only four the local chapter. It stated, \It is doctors have been called into the obvious to any candid observer , armed service under the provisions of the draft law. The committee that the National Organization of. feels that the armed forces should Delta Upsilon has made a hollow reconsider their needs as .the com- mockery of democratic principles. mittee's investigation shows that That such an organization should· the law may be unnecessary. exist in this country is lamentable enough but that it should exist in Toast master for the luncheon our colleges and universities is was Harry W. Langworthy, '32, deplorable. chairman of the Horr.ecoming. President Carter Davidson wei- There can be no doubt that there corned the alumni and their fam- has never been a more flagrant Hies to the campus and Frank violation of the purposes of educa- Bailey, tr.easurer of the college, tion and democracy attempted on was introduced. interview engineers and. physicists President Russell Henry Stafford The geology department wHl.hold at Wells House, Wedp.esda-y, Nov. of the Eartford Seminary Founda- ·its first Geologicrul Conference 7. Administrative positions at Bu- tion, Hartford, Conn., will be the Wednesday, October 31,.at 7!30 p.m. reau of -Qvd·nance ar.d production guest preacher at the Sunday morn-. in the Geology Laboratory. at the Naval Gun Factory will be ing service in the Memorial Chapel Two seniors, Henry Gehman and included, and seniors should make at 1 l:OO a.m. Don Hoskins will discuss \Sunimel' appointments through Mrs. W<:b- F' ld W · k · C 1 ado\ a d w'll Dr. Stafford. Who ·has preached · ' Ie m; m 0 or · ·n l ste1• at Wells Bouse. Juniors who t t th · k b K. d. at Unl 'on severa· 1 times in .the past,. illus ra e . eir remar s y o a- wish to consult on summer work · chrom color slides. These two men at th 1 h l i k Is a graduate of the University of ese p aces s ou • rna e ap- . spent the summer at Crested Butte, pointments. A genera!! meeting Minnesota, Drew Theological Semi- Colorado, completing the field work with MJ. Crowley as speaker will nary and Chicago .Seminary• where · req~ired of gelogy majors at be held at 1 o'clock :In Old Cha[lel. he received- his D.D. degree. He is . the author of several :books on Union. On Thursday, N. ovember 8,· repre- 10 000 \' t \' .,. I · d religion. . · \ , :..··ee uown a co or soun sentatives of the Factory Mut•Ial t' · t d -\' by th · Dr. Sta:fford~s sermon wHl be mo wn piC ure pro uce... e Er.gi!leering Division will meet. Sh 11 0'1 c· 1 . ti \What Do You Think?\ The Union . e 1 . ompany on exp ora on civil and electrical eng-ineers a.. f 'I '· 'll 1 b show·n· ' •College Choir will. sing assisted by or o1 WI .a so e . · Wells House. Appointments ·should be maqe in advance. Dr. Elmer Tidmarsh at the organ. This is the fourth· season of the The service will be broadcast geology conferences, which: are . over WQY from 11:15 to 12 noon. held foui· times a year ----01--~- Philos (Continued from Page 1) will ·be Monroe Silverman and Lo- shak, and fol' the negative,. Levine and Richa.rd Lee. The debate will take place at Wililams College at 10 a.m. Professor Erwin Von Schlichten, Debate Coach, wiU accompany four novice debaters, to a .novice tom- nament Saturday an<l Sunday, at Hamilton CoHe~;e. FERRO'S RESTAURANT Mr. and Mrs. George Ferro, P-roprietors lll5 Bar.rett St. PRIVATE ROOM FOR PARTIES Specializing in Italian-American Food PHONE 6-9554 ..... ---- --- --·-- -·--- -·-- ---- .. ----- .... II I : Attention Dutchmen! : The national officers charged the locals with \unfraternal activity\ to the national organization for their act in pledging a Negro and disregarding an alumnus blackball. At the same time, the fraternity convention at Ann Arbor, Michi- gan, last September voted -unani· mously against a clause barring Negroes. Further discussion of the matter was tabled, 39-22. In three preceding conventions, the national upheld its policy that \any duly enrolled male student\ is eligible for membership. The local chapter took a constitutional stand, charging that the fraternity was non-secret. · the campus than was attempted Also attending the · weeker. d's by the National Organization of functions was Walter C. Baker, Delta Upsilon ... What is surpris- class of '15, a trustee of Union ing is not that this chapter ·has College. Mr. Baker is also a. gone local, but' that they were trustee of the Metropolitan Museum. forced into such a position by an of Art in New York City. Hiram organization of men who have been C. Todd '97, Howard Wright '95 exposed to the process of educa- and Foster Brown '16, all trustees· tion. Here existed an organization of Union, came back this weekend which, when stripped of its cloak. as well. Ezzeh Hawkes '87 was of platitudes, showed itself to be present at the election of his son dedicated to negating what is per- ·.Stuart Hawkes, '26, to the .positio~ haps the most basic principle of of chairman of the Graduate education.\ Council. TUXEDOS and ACCESSORIES Furnished and Sold OTTAVIANO•$ Sartorial. Bar 114 JAY ST. Across from City Hall I \: Leave Your Clothes at : I WGY LAUNDRY I I 4-DAY COMPLETE LAUNDRY SERVICE I I I , 1 (Cash and Carry). I 1: Sibs. for $1.00 1 \.1 520 Union Sheet 3 Blocks from Campus : '--------------------~------~ After retur.ning from the con- vention, the members of the Bow- doin chapter stat<:d that the vote of the convention meant that na- tional intended to \say one thing publi<;ly and do the oppos1te secret- ly,\ thu:; VlUlatmg the J.innciplcs ~ ot t.htlr fJ.a.t.t..llHLJ i..l..::) tb.LJo unJ•.:I- Open House <Continued from Page 1) hand generator to which is at- tached a watt-meter, which auto- matically reads the amount of horsepower produced by the guests exertions in turning the generator. An electric light bulb is added to the electric Circuit, and the person turning the genera,tor will find it extremely difficult to turn the crank. G.E. Train Exhibit Included in the E.E. eKhibit will be demonstrations from G.E.'s \More Power to America\ train. These include several interesting demonstrations on street lighting, another on airport lighting, others on watt-hour meters, hydro-gen- erators, and the like. The evening exhibit will continue until about 9:30 this evening and is open to all who at·e interested. FRATERNITIES SAVE 100/ 0 · ~on leading Brands of WALLPAPER HARDWARE PAINTS & VARNISHES HOUSEWARes CAPITOL PAINT & HARDWARE CO. 726 State St., Ph. 4-8393 ~-----------·--------·-, i Famous Chinese and l : American Foods I • • I LUM FUNG t I Restaurant : • • . : I BE~ UQUORS ' I AND COCKTAILS ' ~ 135 Broadway Phone 6-9595 ~ ~---~---------------~ For Car Troubles See a Union Man Ask the Boys Who Trade Here \ William H. Ple~th Auto Service 601 UNION STREET e MILDNESS ~ NO UNPlEASANT AfTER~tASTE ONLY ~C.H~E:;S:.;, .. T.:;.;E R_F_I E_L_~ !:! A! t!! ••• AND - . - r Vol. 79, Dr. Ps1 e.. Le• Dr. [ author Six Cer night a~ lecture l Stuc \No ch. the color, that whh Convicts,' experlenc selling b( assig:nme Health S to invest -tween cr tlon amc Leavenw• sas. Half o done one will of turn sec· of their not eas~ when h• study: \ guy, or As .priso1 came to prisone~e 11r.conscl !zed hl8 ness car account The !d ences at tentiary son whll no note from th• at the u to think sometim which n:: prison 1 tion, a c the forr: Impetus matlc at Priso: The t people,\ prisoner 19th Cer possible no good no bad book d llteratUJ may be the vole in a s phi!OSOJ that vo my boo la.st, thl men, s t~rned whom, never them.'' A cc many 3 being a ail t)l. neurose tiona h Dt. Chapel TueeHia. Graves Dr. Wl Str~ Hea Souli world's milsicl: piano last nl The by BE Cboplr: The superv 'who a of Str that { contril renow: perf or of thi1 Stra stude!

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1951 4 1 Placemen.t News \Stafford Speaker Geologists Hold Mr. Thomas Crowley of the u. s. In s\l;lnd· .ay Ch•apel First Conference Naval Ordnance Laborator·y WIN U · Discrimination Battles IIealth Plan <Continued from Page 1) Flair up in Fraterniti-es Debate on non-discrimir.mtioB clauses has caused aBother eruption on the national fraternity scene receBtly. The Bowdoin chapter of Delta Upsilon frn,temity dissolved their relationship with the national org::mization seve1·al weeks ago and fuur l'niversity of Connecticut fraternities severed relationships with their nationals because of pressure ap- plied by th<' university. 'GConn Outhw;.·pd Bias Claust• The CC'onn rulin~ !-ltated that fraternitit•s with discriminatory clause\ m thl'it' chartl'rs must eithl'l' get rid of th~m by SeptPm- bet·, or get off campus. The four fraternities affl'Ct<'d are Lambda Chi Alpha. Sigma \'u. Kappa S1gma, and Sigma Chi. Stgma Alpha Epstlon hl'at the• tkadlinL' in gPtting rid of thP bias clauses. Th,• d\afllliation at Bow<loin fol- lowed an almost 11 month suspen- sion by the national as a result of thP local',; ple'd.gmg a Negro. The issue arose when an alumnus black-balll'd the initiating of a ::-o:egro pll'dgc. Tlw memb,•rs form- ed the Ddta Club to replace the' former DL'lta l:psilon chapter. ('harged as \l'nfraternal\ stood them: not only by acting as a discriminatory fraternity but also by acting in this manner by virtue of a secret Hgentleman's agreement.\ They voted unani- mously to withdraw from Delta Upsilon. Editorial Ba<'ks Lo<-al An Pditorial in the Bowdoin \Orient\ supported the action of the local chapter. It stated, \It is obvious to any candid observer that the :-::ational Organization of Delta L'psilon has made a hollow mockery of democratic principles. That such an organization should Pxist in this country is lamentable enough but that it should exist in our colleges and uni \'ersities is deplorable. that certain organizations prefer to lteep veterans in the veterans' hospitals but that it is far better to keep them at home. A member of President Truman's Advisory Health Resources Com- mittee, Dr. Crosby flew to Sc.IJL'- nectady from a committee nceet- ing- in Saon Francisco, California. in order to add·rcss the alumni. He explained that the committe~ m~ets every two w0eks fot· two-day Hessions. Only Four Doctors DraiU'd Discussed at the mo,;t rL•cent meeting wet·p the .Jack o.f hospital beds available because of the ><hurt- age of nurses, the problem of ob- taining blood fur military and civiJ.iar. use an<l the pn•:sent draft law concerning doctors, he said. Up to now, he stated, on!)' fout· doctm·s have bPen called into the arnil'd service under the provisions of thl' <llaft law. The conmuttt·e fe<'b that tl1P armed fm·cps should 1ecnnsidl'r their needd as the com- mittt>e's investi~ a lion shows that th<' ln w may be unnL'Cessary. Toast ma~t<•l' for th<· Iunclwon was Harry W. Lan)0'·orthy, '32. ehairma1~ of thf' Hon·pcoming. Presidt•nt Carter Davidson \\'l'l- Thcrc can be no doubt that there corned thP alumni and their lam- has ncver he!'n a more flagrant tlies to the campus and Frank violation of the purposes of educa- Baile'Y· treasm·er of thP coll!'ge, tion and democracy attempted on was intmdurt'd. interview engineers and physicists President Russell Henry Stafford The geulogy department wiJil hold at Wells House, \Vedncsday, Nov. of the Hartford Seminary Founda- its first Geological Conference 7. Administrative positions at Bu- ,_ h Wednesday, October 31, at 7:30p.m. tion, Hartford, Conn., will ,e t e rcau of Ordnance and production guest preacher at the Sunday morn- in the Geology Laboratory. at the Naval Gun Factory will be ing service in the Memorial Chapel Two seni<HS, Henry Gehman and included, and seniors should malte Don Hoskins wHl discuss \Summer - ~ • Field Work in Colora o an wiU apl)ol ·ntntent~ tll•l'OU'h· Mt·s. W<\lJ- at l1 :OO a.m. d \ d stet· at Wel'ls House. J-unt'ors \lho Dr. Stafford, who has preached k b K d •• illustrate their rcmar s . y o a- wish to consult on summer work at Union several times in the past, ch·rom colo 1• slides. These two men at these placPs should malte ap- is a graduate of the University of spent the s1:1mmer at Crested Butte, pointmc>nts. A general meeti'1,; Minnesota, Drew Theological Semi- ·Colorado, completing the field work with Mr. cr~wley as speaker· ... 1 ·11 nary and Chicago Seminary where f 1 · t ~ n rPquired 0 g<' ogy maJOrS a be hPld at 1 o'<'lock in Old Cha~e!. he ·received his D.D. degree. He is Union. the author of several books on \10 Feet Down\ a color sound motion picture produced by the Shell OH Gompany on exploration for 0H will also 10e shown. On Thursday, November 8, reprc- sentativl's· of the Factory Mut,Ial Ergineering Division will mrrt civil and el<'ctrical engineers fl \\'ells HousP. Appointments should be m~Hhl in adYanC'e. religion. Dr. Stafford's sermon wiU be \What Do You Think?\ The Union College Choir will sing assisted by Dr. Elmer Tidmal'Sh at the organ. The service will be broadcast over WGY from 11:15 to 12 noon. This is the fourth· season of the geology conferences, which are held four times a year ---·- ·-0 ---- .~ ·- ·---- - ------ PhHos --~---------. !Continued from Page 1) wtll b<' :Vlonroe Stlvl'rman and Lo-, , shak, and for thP ne~ative, LPvine 1 , and Richard Let>. The debate will tal\' place at \Vililams Colleg<' at 1 ' 10 a.m. I' Professor Etwin Von Schlichten. i ', Dt•bate Coach, will necompany fuur ~ : novice• deball'rs. to a novice tul't· nament Saturday an< I Sunday. at I Hamilton Colle~ e. FE,RRO'S RESTAURANT Mr. and Mrs. George Ferro, Proprietors I 115 Barrett St. PRIVATE ROOM FOR PARTIES Specializing in rtalian-American Food PHONE 6-9554 i; -;::::::::::::::::::::::==:::::.::::::.::::::::::::~.::.:.; .. -:,:;- 1_~_- - - - ----- ~.a.- ... ---------;;-. -- -----------.-;.;. - - -. ,u I .: Attention Dutchmen! • The national oftic<•rs chargL'd the locals with \unfraternal activity\ to the natiOnal organization for their act in pkdging a :--: l'gro and disrpgarding an alumnus blackball. At the same time, the fraternity con\'entiun at Ann Arbor, :-.lichi- gan, last S< ptl'lllh<'r voted unani- mously against a clause ban·ing KL'gt O<'S. Fnrtlwr discu~sion of th<' matter was tabled, 39-22. In thrPe J>ll'Cedmg conventions, the national upheld Its policy that \any duly enrullc>d mall' student\ is eligible for mE>mbership. Thl' lo<\al chapter took a constitutional stand. chargtng that th,• fraternity \vas non-secrflt. the campus than was attempted Also attl'nding tlw w,• .. ker d's by the National Organization of functions was Wal\pJ· C. Baker. Delta Upsilon . . What is surpris- class of '15. a trustee of Union I ing is not that this chapter has Colleg~. Mr. Baker is also a 1 gone local, but that they were trustee of the Metropolitan Museum [ forced into such a position by an of Art in :-::ew York City. Hiram organization of men who have been C. Todd '97, Howard Wright '95 t·xposed to the process of educa- and Foster Brown '16. all tntste!'s tion. Here existed an organization of Union, came baclr this \\eeltend which, when stripped of its cloak as well. Ezzeh HawltPs '87 was of plat it ud,,s, showed itself to be present at the election of his son, dPdicated to negating what is per- I Stuart Hawkes, '26. to the position: haps the most basic principle of ! of chairman of the Graduate ~ducation.\ ' Council. TUXEDOS and ACCESSORIES Furnished and Sold OTTAVIANO'S Sartorial Bar 114 JAY ST. Across from City Hall I I 'I Leave Your Clothes at I 'I I :. WGY LAUNDRY 1 \: 4-DAY COMPLETE LAUNDRY SERVICE : '1 (Cash and Carry) I : 8 lbs. for $1.00 : ·I 520 Union Street 3 Blocks from Campus : '------------~----~--~-~~~~~~ Aft .. r r .. turning from thr con- vl'ntlOn, th,· nwmlwl,; of th<· Bow· dum chapt .. r \tatl'Li that the vute of tlw cunv•·nt ion meant that na- tional mt<·nded to \~ay one thmg publicly and do the upposttc ~ecrd­ ly. thU::t \.lUlalJUb tb(,; ,PJ . .I.~.q .. :.._.::: UL lht:ll llu.t.t.llu .. J U.J .. ui..J •• :,,!\. Open House 1Continued from Page ll hand gpnerator to which ts at- tached a wo.tt-nwtt'l', which auto- matically reads the amount of hors~power produc,•d by the guPsts exertwns m turnmg the generator. An dectnc hght bulb ts added to the ~h·ctric cir~uit. and the person •urninl! th<• gt·nerator will find it extremely dJflirult to turn the crank. G.E. Train Exhibit Included In the E.E. t•xhibit will be demonstrations from G.E.'s \More Power to America\ train. These include several interesting demonstrations on \treet lighting, another on airport ltghting, others on watt-hour mPters. hydro-gen- erators, and the like. The PVening exhibit \VIll continue until about 9:30 this evPning and is open to all who are interested. FRATERNITIES SAVE 10°/ 0 on leading Brands of WALLPAPER HARDWARE PAINTS & VARNISHES HOUSEWARES CAPITOL PAINT & HARDWARE CO. 726 State St., Ph. 4-8393 l----------------------, : Famous Chinese and I ', . American Foods t I : I LUM FUNG I I Restaurant : I t I I 1 BEST LIQUORS I AND COCKTAILS l 113 5 Broadway Phone 6-95951 ·----------------------~ For Car Troubles See a Union Man Ask the Boys Who Trade Here William H. Plath Auto Service 60 I UNION STREET 8 MII.DNESS P!!!J- NO UNPlEASANl AfTER· TASTE ONLY CHESTERFIEL~ !:!A! J!! ••• AND - l l ! :I :I I, r Vol~ 79., Dl'. I author Six Co: night a ledure Stu \No ct the colo! that whl Convicts experlen· selollng b asslgnm~ Health l to lnves tween c1 Uon am' Leavenw sas. Half < done on• will of turn sec of their not eas when h study: ' guy, or As pt·iso came t< prisoner ur.consc !zed h i• ness cn account The 1< ences a tentiary son whl no notE from th at the 1 to thlnl sometin which r. prison tion, a ' the for: Impetus me.tlc s Prise The 1 ~ople,\ prisone· 19th Ce possiblE no ~oo< no bad book c literatu may be the vol in a 1 philoso that vc my boc last, th men, : turned whom, never them.\ A c many being 1 all th neuros· tlo-ns I~ Dr. Chapel Tues<l Grave! Dr. W Str~ He~ Soul world' musid piano la.st n The by B Chop!: The super' who 1 of St1 that contrl renO'-' perfo: of thl Strt stu de

951\ hold ence p.m. and 1mer will ~oda­ men :utte, work at ound. the ation f the are .•... I I I I I I I I I • I I pus I ........ : See Page 4 For Furniture Schedule Vol. 79, No. 7 Dr. Donald P~ Wilson Psychologist, Au.thor, Lectures Wednesday Dr. Donald Powell Wilson, consultant in Psychology and author of the 1951 Book-of-the-Month Club selection,. \My Six Convicts,\ will speak in Memorial Chapel Wednesday night as the second attraction in Union College's concert and lecture series. ~-------------------- Stuc'Ues at Leavenworth \No chapter in my life can equal the calor, excitement and appeal of that which Is reported in \My Six Convicts,\ says Dr. Wilson. The experiences recorded in his best- selling book wer.e the result of an -assignment by the United States Health Servi~e in the early 1930's to investigate the relationshi}) be-. tween criminality and drug addic- tion among the prisoners at Fort . Leavenworth Penltentiary In Kan- Broadcast From Prom Over NBC The NBC network will broadcast Buddy Morrow's music on a coast to coast hookup directly from the sas. Prom between 12 :05 and Half of Dr. Wilson's work was· d done once he he.d gained the good- 12:30 p.m. This is the secon will of these six, who would in. time in two years that NBC turn secure for him the gcod-wHI' has broadcast from the Prom. of their fellow-p~isoners. This was. They carried Ralph F1ana- not easy; he had been warned • · f th 1949 when he started his threa-year gan s music rom e . study: \You'd better be a· bright . Spring !?rom. guy, or you may be a dead one.\ .AB .prison psychologist, Dr. Wilson: Skidmore Entertains came to know secrets about the Vocal entertainment during lnter- prisone~s. which, If divulged even mission wlll be provided by 12 11~consclously, would ha:ve jeopard- girls from Sk!d:nore including- th<> !zed hIs work. PrpOf of hlg .alert- eight members of the Sonneteers. ness can be read in his exciting Tickets for the Prom are $7.2() account of his :prison experiences. a couple, not a person, as some The idea of recording his experi- people on the campus believe. How- ences at Fort Leavenworth Peni- ·ever, beginning with Tuesday, No- tentiary never occurred to Dr. Wll- vember 13, pt·ices will he $8.40 per son while he was there. He made couple. no notes, kept no records apart Between 11:00 and 12:00 noon, f1•om the research data. However, Saturday, November 17, a faculty at the urging of friends, he began committee will inspect the displays to think about writing the book- at the various fraternity houses. A sometime. After a long d-elay, In cup will be awarded by the Prom which many changes took place in Committee to the house with the prison personnel and ailministra- best display. tion, a chance meeting with one of An invitation bas been extended the former Inmates gave him the by the committee to all disc impetus to start writing the dra- jockies in the Capital district to matlc story. · meet Buddy Morrow between the Prisoners' Memories is Theme The theme of his book? \Most people,\ ~ays Dr. Wilson, \think of prisoners in the same tenns that 19th Century writers built their im- possible f!cti cnal characters: with no good in the worst of them and no bad In the best of them. If my book differs from other current literature on prisons of today, It may be because I have tried to let the voice of the prisoner be heard in a society that, by its penal philosophy, is still all but silencing that voice. In -this sense, perhaps my book is unique. But first and last, the book is my memory of my men, some whom I hope have tl!rnen ol!t aJI rlgbt, ~n,q s<>me of whom, I suppose, have not. I have never tried to find out about. them.\ hours of 9 :oo and 10:00 p.m. on Prom night. They will probably be able to make tape recordings with Buddy for use on their pro- grams. Incidentally, Morrow played in this area at the Crookecl Lake Hotel not too long ago. Prom tickets may be obtained from representatives in the fra- ternity houses, in the dorms or at the Student Activities Office. The Rathskeller has announced that they will be open from 4:30 p.m. to 3:00 a.m: on Friday, Nov. 16, and will ,be open from 4 :30 to 12 midnight, as per l;IBUal, on Sat- urday night. Philos Divide Six Weekend Debates Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., fRIDAY NOVEMBER 9, 1951 ? ? ? • • • Photo by Wllllarm A resolution appear~:~ where once there was placed the \infl'rnal machine\ that was· set to go off during the planned explosion in Chapel in 1942. This added to the mystery of last Friday's explosion during Dr, Elmer Tidma.rsh's recital in Chapel. Whodunit;? Tidmarsh Organ Recital Goes Over With A Bang By Lawrence W. Levine Seldom does the organ do .better than the organist, but that's exactly what happened in Memorial .Chapel last Friday, j.ust nine years ago to the week that the last bomb explo- sion took place in Chapel. As Dr. Elmer Tidmarsh hit the stops for a high note,. the organ came back with a whistle, two loud blasts, and black smoke. • StS Deadline For Prom Date~List -Tuesday Noon PRICE 10 CENTS New Constitution Is Approved At .student Meeting The new Constitution of the Stl:ldent Body of Union Col- lege was accepted in its final fcrm at l\Ionday's student body meeting in Memorial Chapel. -----------------------------~ Absence Rule Clarified The document represents the cul- mination of almost a full year's work by the constitution commit- tee of the Student Council. It In- corporates changes designed to eliminate some of the more obvi- ous snags that have raised points of issue and debate in the past. Foremost of these changes is the An agenda has been pre- clarification of the \absence rule'' pertainin.g to members of the Stu- pared for the annual Tippe- dent council and the number and canoe student-faculty meeting character of absences they are al- ing which will be held in Hale lowed. The new attendan<'e rules, House Sunday afternoon from prompted by the controversy over Tippecanoe Agenda Set. For Sunday former Council presicient James 2-6. Invitations have been Carmichael's removal from of- sent to 33 students and 44 fice by an unexcused absence last faculty and staff members to term, dJfine \excused\ and \unex- attend the conference. cused\ absences explicitly anq set precise limits on the total number The agenda includes the follow- allowed each member . ing items for discussion: According to the rewritten rules, 1. Student Activities: What bas an \excused\ absence is ecnstl- happened to the Mountebanks? tuted• as sending a proxy in place How should dramatics be handled of the absent Council member. Any at Union? Problems of other other behavior is, appar~ntly, con- activities. sidered an · \unexcused\ absence. 1 Each member of the Council is al· 1 2. Dining Hall: Can service and lowo.:d, dt:dng hi:; term, four ab- 1 pdcc~ in ~;rest C'oll<'gc nnd Hnlt' :;c·nce:;, nu mc•re than unc• \f w!Ji•·h House be Improved?. Use of stu- may be uncxcu.sed. dent help? 8. Conunen.cement: Should it be D!'lay Action en IndE>Jlf'Jldents held outdoors on Sunday evening? At the Student Council meeting 4. Intercollegiate Athletics: What. Tuesday night, the proposed deci- sion on acceptance of the consti- should we cut in order to stay tution of the new Independent's within our budget? ·Organization was postponed at the 5. Intramural Athletics: Can suggestion of Oscar Grusky, mem- pbysical injuries be reduced? ber of the committee appointed to investigate the o r g an i z at i o n. 6. Religion on the Campus: What kind of program can Union Grusky stated that copies of the provide? Can we secure. better at- constitution were being distributed tendance at Sunday chapel? Is the to all in,dependents and to mem- bers of the Council. The Independ- radio broadcast valuable? ents will meet shortly to air the 7. Fraternity Problems: Should proposed group and attempt to ob- rushing be postponed? Can s'>me- tain solid backing for the crganiza- thing be done for the fraternities tion. Adoption of the constitution without houses? What social activ- wlll be voted upon at the next Stu- At 12:12 on Friday, while the col- Moses Ne\w ity can be provided for men not in dent Council meeting. lege was lulling to the music of fraternities? In a recent announcement, Stu- Out of the LuD Dr. Tidmarsh, accompanied by v!o- S. Curriculum: Should the \Com- dent Tax Committee Chairman Jinlst Miss PeggyPaschlE!r, the huge WRUC Head mon Freshman Year\ be modified? Gerald O'Loughlin stated that he explosion took place and inside of will recommend to the Student two minutes, the Chapel was roar- What possibilities are presented by Council that the student activities ing to one of the clearest practical John Moses was appointed the Carnegie Grant for experiments fee, for the next term only, be re- jokes Minerva has ever had. Acting Station Manager of in Inter-departmental courses? duced to $8.00. He attributed this At the conclusion of Chapel, this WRUC, campus radio station, 9. The War: What may lie ahead to the surplus existing in the pre- reporter and a staff of engineers by the Executive Council on for students in Selective Service? sent funds of the Tax Committee. started to check the apparatus, W d d ft f ll Should college students do more Senior Leslie Couch has been and after some investigation, the · · e nes ay a ernoon, 0 OW- for the war effort, e.g. the blood elected to (he Board of Directors story can now be revealed. The ing the resignation of David donation program? Are we doing of the Student Body Corporation. culprit knew what the music was Platt, who has served as sta- our share in Civil Defense? He replaces Franklin Arnold, who to be, connected a wire to the or- tion manager for nearly eigh- 10. Admissions: Should we seek is no longer in school. 'gan attached to a certain key, teen months. for a large Freshman c1ass? In ° which, upon being struck by any wha:t courses of study? Should we · - d \M • innocent observer, would set off Aooept New ConE;Otltution consider admitting sixteen-year-old Ad . athias A consulting psychologist for many years, Dr. Wilson admits to being an incurable optimist despite ail the frustrations, complexes, 11euroses, and other mental aberra- tions he has observed. two loaded fireworks located just Platt's resignation was an- after their sophomore year in high · . . . · Union debaters broke even In a above the organ on a shelf. At the ·nounced to the ·Executive Beard school? aeries of six debates held ove~ the ; sound of the first bomb. many peo- of the station following the ac- --~--o~-- As Instructor Dr. Wilson will also speak in Chapel Thursday at neon. In Tuesllay's noon Chapel, Prof. Clare Graves will deliver a lecture about Dr. Wilson's book. Stravinsky Recital Heard Last Night past weekend with various inter- , pie ducked, assuming it was an ceptance by the radio staff of the collegi!f.te debating teams. The 'assassination plot upon Dr. Tid- new constitution. He resigned in c.··te Apa. ·thy Walter Mathias, head· laboratory team travelled to Hamilton last 1 tnarsh. The only composed people order to give new men a chance technician In charge of the Union Saturday and Sunday to compete 1 in the hall were the performers. · to the Board and to give the new A D College central machine shop, has with Hamilton, Co.lgate, and St. 1 J.ust a \College Prank\ station manager ample opportunity S anget• just been appointed laboratory In- Lawrence. . Dr. Tidmarsh said 'that Miss to learn the requirements of the structor in the department of engi- Last Friday the affirmative team Paschler paused to let the smoke position while Platt was still in A'pathy and ignorance, not Com· neering. His appointment is di- of Lawrence Levine and Eliot 'escape from the building and then school to help with wbatever prob- munism, are the great dangers to rectly connected with the forma- Loshak lost to an Albany State asked \Shall we carry on?\ The !ems may arise. He stressed that democracy, Prof. Ka:rl Schmidt told ticn ·or a Mechanical Eng~neering Teacher's squad, William Ketchum,. audie~ce overwhelmingly gave its his resig.r at ion had nothing to do students in Memorial Chapel Tues- Curriculum to be introduced at and Norman Scull, members of the approval. Dr. Tidmarsh declared with the new constitution. day. Union next year. negative team defeated the Albany ·1 he Is taking It iil the best of humor Moses, a junior, has been pro- Prof. Schmidt urged students to Mr. Mathias will be giving a State team. and called it \a typical college gram director of the station. Hr> take a greater interest and partie!- course in practical shop work to S Ut P rank \ It was also learned in the is a member of the Student Coun- pation in politics if they wish to the mech. anica. 1 engineers which NOViceS · P · ' cil and chairman of the Gridiron 1 course -of the investigation that the prevent \boss control.\ An example will be comparable to the summer The novice tournament at Ham- bomb was supposed to have been Ball Ccrrmittee. was shown where one party boss field work in surveying which the Soullna. Stravinsky, son of the ilton saw the Union affirmative detonated two weeks ago, but the Koenig Chosen was able .to control elections until civil engineers normally go through. world's famous pianist and a great team ·of Conrad Schminke and; prankster had to call the whole Thomas Koenig was electe<l tech-' there was a 55% turnout of the The present plans involve a four musician in his own right. gave a Jacob Epstein beat the St. Law- 1 thing off when he was forced to nical director of •the station by the eligible voters. Past that point,. week, 8 hour a day program teach- plano- recital tn Memorial Chapel renee debaters, but in a later de- 1 appear In court to an~wer a park- Board, replacing Fred Sears, and elections were out of his hands. ing practical machine work in the last night. bate they were defeated by Hamil- 1 ing ticket. The comment of the Avram Gold was chosen to succeed. A show of hands indicated that shop, supplemented by visits to sur- . The progmm Included seiectlons ton. The Union negative team of 1 students and faculty are generally Moses as program director. Arthur about one-third of the eligible. rounding industries where the stu- by Beethoven, Mozart, Scarlatti, Joel Mann and Herbert Spira also 1 favorable, except for one faculty Casey accepted a temporary !LP- . voters at the assembly had voted dents may see their machine work Cbopln, Debussy, and Ohabrier. lost to Hamilton but they did de-l member_ who has already with- pointment as publicity director to In TuelSday's election. Prof. Schmidt in its natural backgrqund. One of The program was under the feat Colgate. drawrl his consent to deliver a lee- replace Donald Harper, who has stated that this would probably be the essential purposes of the course supervision of Dr. Elmer T!dmarsh Friday, Nov. 9, the Phllomatheans ture ever again in Chapel. left school. above the national figure. will be to bring out the importance who arranged for the appearance will send the two teams that com- If the actual bomb scare was not Moses, Koenig and G'old will Results of a poll taken by Dr. of practical knowledge and experl· of Stravinsky. Dr. Tldmarsh said peted against .A,lbany State Teach- enough fer one weekend, the <;am- face elections at the December George Gallup indicate that a good ence In the fl'eld of mechanical that a friend of the college .h!!.d er's College to the University of . pus wa.S })lagued by ari equally staff meeting at which the new percentage of the American people engineering. contributed a fund for concerts by Vermont 'Debating Tournament, · curious phenomena; this taking constitution will also come up ior were ignorant about the location of renowned muslc~ans. La:st night's WRUC has scheduled a radio de- place in the library. On October a second and· final vote. The new Fol'mosa, the significance of the Wealth Of Experience performance marked the beginning bate for Monday, Nov; .12 at 8 P;M. 28, 1942; at 11:45 in Chapel, a bomb constitution aboiishes the execu- 38th Parallel or the identity of the Mr. Mathias approaches his new of this series. on the topic \Resolved: That an was discovered which was to have Uve position of publicity director North Atlantic Security Pact, Mar- teaching job with a wealth of prac- Stra.vlni!k.y also played for the Independent Organization Should gone off during the speech of Pres- so no vote will be taken ali. that sha.l Titc, Generalissimo Chiang- tical experience in the .realm of in- students at this noon's ·chapel. Be l!lstabilahed at Union College.\ (Continued on Page 4) office. Kal-Shek,. or Dean Acheson. <Continued on Page 4)

1951 e hold t'ence >p.m. Land nmer will {oda- men 3utte, work s at sound r the ~ation >f the are pus ·-- ' ( l , I l I. II I· f ,. See Page 4 For Furniture Schedule Vol~ 79, No. 7 Dr. Donald P ~ Wilson Psychologist, Au.thor, Lectures Wednesday Dr. Donald PoweH Wilson, consultant i.n Psychology and authoi· of the 1951 Book-of-the-Month Club selection, \My Six Convicts,\ will speak in Memorial Chapel Wednesday night as the second attraction in Union College's concert and ledure series. Studies at Lpavenworth \No chapter in my lUe can equal the color, excitement and appeal of that which is reported In \My Six Convicts,\ says Dr. WUsor. The experiences recorded In his best- seH!ng book were the result of an assignment by the United States Health Service In the early 1930's to investigate the relationship be- tween criminality and drug addic- tion among the prisoners at Fort Leavenworth Penitentiary In Kan- sas. Half of Dr. Wilson's work was done once he had gained the good- will of these six, who would in turn secure for him the good-will of their fellow-prisoners. This was not easy; he had been warned when he starte<l his three-year study: \You'd better be a bright guy, or you may be a dead one.\ As prison psychologist, Dz·. Wilson came to know secrets about the prisoners, which, if di¥Uiged even u~consciously, would have jf'opard- lzed his work. Prpof of hi• al<>rt- ness can be rPnd In his exdting account of his prison experiences. The !den of recording his experi- ences at Fort Leavenworth Peni- tentiary never occurred to Dr. Wil- son while he was there. He made no notes, kept no records apart from the research data. However, at the urging of friends, he began to think about writing the book- sometime. After a long delay, in which many changes took place in prison personnel and administra- tion, a chance meeting with one of the former inmates gave him the impetus to start writing the dra- matic story. Prisoners' Memories is Theme The theme of his book? \Most people,\ says Dr. Wilson, \think of prisoners in the same terms that 19th Century writers built their im- possible ficti anal characters: with no fOOd in the worst of them and no bad in the best of them. If my book differs from other current literature on prisons of today, it ma.y be because I have tried to let the voice of the prisoner be heard in a society that, by its penal philosophy, is still all but silencing that voice. In this sense, perhaps my book is unique. But first and last, the book is my memory of my men, some whom I hope have turned out all right, a.nd some of whom, I suppose, have not. I have never tried to find out about them.\ A consulting psychologist for many years, Dr. Wilson admits to being an incurable optimist despite all the frustrations, complexes, neuroses, and other mental aberra- tions he has observed. Dr. Wilson will also speak In Chapel Thursday at noon. In Tues< lay's noon Chapel, Prof. Clare Graves will deliver a lecture about Dr. Wilson's book. Stravinsky Recital Heard Last Night Broadcast From Prom Over NBC I ' Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRlDAY NOVUABER 9, 1951 ? ? ? • • • ~·- --~ . ~ ~· '_., ~- ..... \' s\:i~~ ~. ·:-t~i{~ ~ .f ·~: ::}~~:~: .: .• -. ..;::.._:,;\1' Deadline For Prom Date-List -Tuesday Noon PRICE 10 CENTS N~ew Constitution Is Approved At Student Meeting ' The new Constitution of the Student llodv of L'nion Col- : lege was accepted in its final Lrm at :\londa~:'s student body I meeting in 7\Iemot1al Chapel. -------- ----------- - - ----~ Abs!'nr-P Rult• Clarlfit>d The document represents the cul- mination of almost a full Y<'ar's work by the constitution commit- tee of the StudPnt Council. It in- corporntPs changes designed to eliminate some of th<· more obvi- ous snags that havP taisL•d points of issue and debatf' in the past. Foremost of th .. se chang cs is th!' clarifkation of the \a hsence t·ule'' pertninir.g to members of the Stu- dent Council and the number and cha1 actl'r of ab\•nccs t ht•y are al· lowed. Th£' nPw attPndnncp rule;;, prompted by thP Pnntroversy 0\\er former Council presaient Janws Carmichael's removal from of- fice by an un•·xcus .. d ah>'en<'c last term, , l~finf' \excu:;ed' and \urex~ cusPd\ ahsencPs explicitly and set prPcisc limit>< on the total numb<·r allowed <•ach nc Pm her. According to the rewz itt en ruh•s, an \excused\ absence is constl- tutf'd a\ >'Pn<ling a proxy in pla<'f' of thP absent C<>t:ncil mcmh•_•r Any other bPhavior is. apparr,ntly, con- sidered an \unexcused\ absence. Each member of the Council is a!- 1UWl J, cJ:;_l int:,; h1::::. tL JIll, st r:l..'• :-., r..., !I:l>l. ~}.\ r. ' r.· may b<: un,·xcu:;,·d. fuur :cb· !' w1.i h DPlay Action on JndPpP-ndPnts At the Student Council meeting Tuesday night, the proposed cleci- ><ion on acce ptancc of the consti- tution of the nE'w Independent's Organization was postponed at the suggestion of Oscar Grusky, mem- ber of the committee appointed to investi,r ate ti1C' organization. Grusky stated that copies of the constitution wPre being distributed to all independents and to mE'm- bers of the Council. The Independ- Pnts will meet shortly to ait· the proposed group and attempt to ob- tain solid backing for the organiza- tion. Adoption of the constitution will be voted upon at the next Stu- dent Council meeting. In a recent announcement, Stu- dent Tax Committee Chairman Gerald O'Loughlin stated that he will recommend to the Student Council that the student activities fee, for the next term only, be re- d-uced to S8.00. He attributed this to the surplus existing in the pre- sent funds of the Tax Committee. Senior Leslie Couch has been elected to (he Board of Directors of the Student Body Co1·poration. He replaces Franklin Arnold, who is no longer in school. ---0---- Add Mathias As Instructor Walter Mathias, head laboratory technician in charge of the Union College central machine shop, has just been appointed laboratory in- structor in the department of engi- neering. His appointment is di- rectly connected with the forma- tion ·of a Mechanical Engineering Curriculum to be introduced at Union next year. Mr. Mathias will be giving a course in practical shop work to the mechanical engineers which will be comparable to the summer field work in surveying which the civil engineers normally go through. The present plans Involve a four week, 8 hour a day program teach- ing practical machine work In the shop, supplemented by visits to sur- rounding industries where the stu- dents may see thE'ir machine work in its natural background. One of the essential purposes of the course will be to bring out the importance of practical knowledge and experi- ence in the field of mechanical engineering. Vl-\ealth Of Experience Mr. Mathias approaches his new teaching job with a wealth of prac- tical experience in the realm of in- <Continued on Page 4)

. 2 Qlournr Member Associated Col- leg'iate Press and distri· butOI' of the Collegiate Digest. NaUonal Adver- tleins R~Pt•esentative: Na- tion-al Advert-Ising Service lue., College Publisher• R•pr•sent ntit•e, 4~0 !\lrllli· son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lished erery Frltlay of tht· s('hool year Editorial Offlce,Washburn Hall, Union {)allege. Pub- lication Offire, The Ga. zette Press, 334 State St. Entererl in the Schenec- tady -\Post Offire as Sec- ond Cla:<s !\fail Matter, subseri_ptlnn lOe a COllY; $3 year deli\·ered an~­ where In tl1e l'nltect States. SE:S!OR BOARD DO:'-i.AL!l ·E:. ~CH \V AHTZ 'G~ . . Htlilor-in Chief XIAHV 1:-t L. KUHN 'o3 .............................. Managing lCdilot· WILLARD U. 'TAYLOR '5~ ...................... Associate -Editor JOH::-: J. f'A8SJ[)Y '53 ........•.•.•............... :-lews Eclitot· JOHN 1'. KE!'lN-l<;llY '52 ...... .. ................. Sports Editor• !11\-l:--:Rlll·~ S 1LV8HMAX '52 ............................ Feature l~tlitot• ALAN S. l•'Oit:\IAN '\3 ........................... l'hotov,raphy IC<litot· LEo KI'I'I·:w::ciJ!IIIIl ·s~ ...................... Bu.-iueos !'llanagt•r GEOH<1E I~. UEPJ:-::nTil:\' '52 .................. Cirrnlation :llnnac;er .H':SIOH BOARD MAHTIX B GOTIHcl::-.; 'ol .. Assl,tant :1-!ulte-l.:p E•litor AI,FHEI'> L. t·10I.llllEW1i·:i\ '54 . . . . ,\s,lotaut Copy E<li~t•r Hl-:RBEH.T L. :-ll'l'IlA '54 ............ Assistant l'opy J-~clitor IHWIS :-;_ 13.\HU ·;,3 . . . . . . . . .. , ........ A'sistant Sports Editor \\\ILLIA:\1 l' :llllllll:IL\:'\ :-; ·~3 .. .. .. . As,istant Sports l~ditor ALF'HEI> II. K.INC1tYX '53 .......... \s,i•tant 1-'mture Editor HEHBEitT 1.. !Il.LLE!t '5~ Exchange Eclitot· HOWAHD I lll\lllY '52 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1-:xdlange l~ditnr GEU!L(.tl·~ ,J. \Vlll\BI-:1... '53 . . . . . . . . ... As~i~tant Uu~hiPSS ~lann.ger f!('n.\ C'I-: \' .\:--: \ 9 ll.\SiT' ·~~ ............ As.:::i~taut f.. 'i1 ~·ulativii :\lanagtH REPORTERS Kent l'orrell, Hirhnrd Heimann, Jerome Klein, I.e\ i< Kle·n, Jo:liut Loshak, :.\iart111 Portnoy, Arthur Ru~enfeld, Alfred ;;,·ot!. I•onahl Sim- mons. Da\·ltl ~rnith. Arthur ~twkmau. (TB REI'O'It'I'ERS Peter Adler, :Vlal'Vin Boris, Arthur Feldman, Herb&rt Guston, Mat•tiu Hauser, Ware! J o11es, Gary Katz, Hi chard Kraft, Daniel :IIannlng, Ian MacDonald. Herbert Wtlliam$. Bl'SL:\ESS STAI.'F Jo•eph Alleu, Hoi.Jert Bel'k, La•nence Greenberg, Raben !:!llvermu.n CIRCL'LATION STAFF Curtis Bates, J. Lowell ll(l.\·is, Joe ;;rartin, David Brown, James Fitz- maudee, Hit·hard Ho1·st, HoUert SeytleL Is There Academic Freedom? William F. Buckley Jr., Yale '50, has hurled the charge of \atheism\ and \collectivism\ at his alma mater in the re- cently published book, \God and ~Ian at Yale.\. Outspok~n critics have accused the book and 1ts author of d1shonesty m approach and technique, anct l\lr. Buckley has been referred to as a mecteival reactionary. Nevertheless, there are many who have, and who will, laud this buok as a great service to the American people for calling attention to a danget·ous situ- tion. l t is generally agreed that Yale is our most conserva- tive university and if atheism and collectivism are rampant there, they are far more so elsewhere. Th.is \Vl'iter will attempt to view Mr. Buckley through the eyes of a liberal. A 1·adical finds no problem in answer- ing him; anything that opposes his particular ideology, be it communism or laissezfaire economics, shall be fought. The liberal bears the torch for no particular ideology, but rather takes a pragmatic approach. His answer to l\Ir. Buckley is more complicated. There Is Only One True Religion \God and ?~Ian at Yale\ is a scathing attack on academic freedom. Under this \superstition as Mr. Buckley calls it, Yale has permitted men to teach agnosticism and atheism in subjects 1·elating to religion. He wants Yale to proclaim Christianity as the true religion, necessitating the concomi- tant charge that other religions are untrue. Department by department analysis, he says, shows that there is a serious lack of professors imbuing, i.e. indoctrinating, students with his definition of Christianity. As to individualism, Yale has yielded to \collectivists he says. By half-tl·uth quotations from economics textbooks used at Yale, he damns these economists for making evalua- tion in terms of ethics. McGeorge Bundy, Yale '40 and a Harvard professor, stated in the November issue of \Atlantic Monthly\ that Mr. Buckley's view of economics and individu- alism, which he espouses in its totality, \shows him to be a twisted and ignorant young man whose personal views of economics would have seemed reactionary to Mark Hanna.\ By implication and by lack of definition, he brands all those not advocating his thesis as \socialists.\ His blanket charge against all humanitarian, ethical views of economics is in- consistent with the Christianity to which he is devoutly devoted. l\Ir. Buckley charges that Yale does not practice the academic freedom it preaches bec~use it has deliberately staffed its faculty with \atheists\ and \collectivists.\ What he wants Yale to do is narrow its orthodox views to come in line with his own views. He wants the alumni to force the administration to permit only Cluistians and individualists, within his pinpoint scope, to teach at Yale. Education, Widens, Not Narrows ll is this liberal's opinion that :\Ir. Buckley's thesis and tactics are contrary to the pmpose of education. A universit~· f'houlrl Rttempt to widen the scope of its students and not ctisrlwrge those who disagree with its own judgments. The liberal agrees ·with the pragmatists that our standards for making value judgments are not abwlute, but relative. Ad- herence to credo should not be a prerequisite to hiring a professor. FRIDAY', NOVEt,1BER 9, 1951 THE VERY IDEA] Letters From Abroad By Jay N, Cohn .Some colleges, devoted to theltralized to the point that· every business of giving their stlid.ents office is its own agent, and the re- an education, have deemphasized suit Is general confusion, lack of . · Others, ·professional advice, .inefficiency carrying along in and a poorer job of \selling\ Union the wave of big- to the public. t i m e collegiate But the students do not hold up sports, have actu- their end either, As members of ally deempbasized the Union College family it should But Un- be their duty to spread \Unionism\ is unique! (not of the labor variety.) wherever some obscure they go. But sadly enough, through this school some failure along the line, most deemphasizes pub~ students .are not imbued with lie relations. ·\Unionism\ themselves. II'hey do Public relations, not seem to identify with the col- it would seem, is the one thing no lege-they don't .feel that the plight college can have too much of. Its of the college is their own worry. values are all on the plus side. Instead they either take a passive Nothing else must, or .at least attitude toward .everything related should, suffer because public re- to the college ot• acquire what has lations boom. And .it is vitally im- become a rather common inferior- portant, since it refers to every ity complex, deciding that Union contact between the campus com- must of necessity ta.ke a back seat munity and the outer world. It is to the glamorized ·institutions the thing that interests alumni, which somehow have beco]Tie more draws gifts, brings in students, famous. raises campus morale, publicizes This ~eeling evidently pet·meates the college's endeavors and builds the freshman class !SOon afte1· they prestige. eYt Union. students evi- hit campus, presumably passed on dently ·do:cy't realize the important from upperclassmen. A freshman, part they play in the college's pub- in an article in the Concordy about lie relations, and the administra- the pajama parade a few weeks tion seems to feel that the mo- ago, whote \. . . a W!lliatnsy touch mentous and imperative job of was added to the parade by the \selling\ the college ·can be done presence of a number of converti- efficicntly without a central office bles ... \ The author probably never devoted to the task. has counted the convertibles on The Public Relations Office in the Williams campus, or perhaps Wells House, once a busy, vibrant never has even been there. Some- hub of campus activities, is now a where he heard that ·at Wil.liams quiet, nearly-vacant room pqp.ulat- everybody drives convertibles. Bull! ed only occasionally by a few It's just a matter of good' public grant-in-aids and a meager staff relations by Williams, and it's of part-time help. Formerly the about time both the administration coordinating center of all campus and students decided to accentu- public relations work, staffed by a ate it here too. director, assistant director and 1(. I(. ~· secretarial aides, the office Is noW de:voted entit•ely to the output of new stories, a job that cannot pos- sibly be performed successiully without· a full-time staff. In an obvious effort to save a few pennies, it app.ears th?-t the college has cut off its nose to spite its face. Public relations has been decen- I have been gratified at the over- whelming response to rny sugges- tion of a \ten-cent\ prom, but I hope no one thought .t was advo- cating a boycott of the Gridiron Ball. Perhaps the next prom com· mittee will be less reactionary and lower the price, but until then ... well, I'll see ya in the gym next Friday night. For Your Information FRIDAY, NOV:. 9-AD-INTERIM SCHOLARSHIP REPORT; Daily Assembly, Recital, Soulima Stravin- sky, pianist; Play Production, Hanna Hall 1-6 p.m. i Choir rehear- sal, MC 4:30 p.m.; Faculty Men's Club Party, Lounge, 8 p.m. SATURDAY, NOV. 10 - Varsity Football, Union vs. Middlebury at Middlebury, 1:30 p.m.; Jr. Varsity Football, Union vs. RPI at Sche- nectady, 2 p.m.; Varsity Soccer, Union vs. Hamilton at Schenectady, 2 p.m.; Varsity Cross Country, New Yorli State Conference away. SUNDAY, NOV. u....:sunday serv- ice, Preacher, President Wilbour Eddy Saundet·s of Colgate-Roches- ter Divinity School, MC, 11 a.m.; Tippecanoe Conference, 2 p.m. MONDAY, NOV. 12--Daily Assem- bly, \The Pastels,'' MC, noon; Play production, Har.na Hall 1-6 p.m.; Glee Club Rehearsal, OC, 7 p.m.; Rehearsal, Schenectady Choral So- ciety, MC, 8 p.m.; Institute' of Radio Engineers, EE 22, 8 p.m.; Delpbics. BH 101, 7:30 p.m. 12:30 p.m.; Student Council, stu- dent lounge, 7:3() p.m.; Newman Club, MC, 7:30p.m.; A.I.E.E. (Sche- nectad.r Section) EE 22, S. p.m.; Engineers of Eastern New York, be, 8 p.m.; Delphics, BH 101, 106, 107 and 109, 7:30 p.m. WEDNESDAY, NOV. H-Meeting of all \Neutrals MC, nool).; Glee Club Rehearsal, oc, 4:30 p.m.; Band rehears:al, TR, 7:30p.m.; Play production, Hanna Hall 1-6 p.m.; Delphics, BH 101, 7:ao p.m.; COL- LEGE LECTURE, Dr. Donald Powell Wilson, author of \My Six Convicts.\ MC, g p.m. TWO PPOINTS CREDIT. <Public cor- dially invited. No charge.) THURSDAY, NOV, 11}-Dai!y As- sembly, Speaker, Dr. Donald Powell Wilson, MC, noon; Fraternity night; American Society of Mech- anical Engineers, EE 22, 8 p.m. The foilowing are a few excerpts. from l!)tters sent to President Davidson and Dean Huntley by Dr. W'illiam T. Winne, Associated Pro- fesli!Or of Biology, who is on leave to study the flora of Liberia in Africa. \This place (Tappita, Liberia) is the head of navigation tor all wheeied vehicles; I and my tr.uck have got here by some miracle of good lucK I ·hate to think of the road hetween here and Mot1rovia which I must eventually retrace. This is the region that has never been -bota;nized before. From here I fan out in all directions (but not aU at the same time) on foot. \Here in the hinterlands it rains only a norma:! amount. and one's spirits improve according·ly. Be- sides,. the natives are wonderfully nice and not inclined to thievery. Along i;he coast they'd rather steal than not just .for kicks, whether they want the article or not. \My truck was the first vehicle from Monrovia to get to Tappita in the past three months. ~coming up here my worst humbugs were washed out bridges and big fallen trees. In cutting' the trees. up to -clear the road· I have been miser- ably and continuousiy bitten by ants, but otherwise no physical dis- Placement News 'rhe Department of Civil Service, State of New York, has announced its annual examination for Public Administration Internships. Candi- dates must by June, 1952, complete four years of college work and in addition must have had one year of \acceptable full-time paid ex- .perience in a junior administrative capacity in public administration, personnel· administration, business administration, or other related fields\; or have completed a full year of graduate work leading to a master's degree. For men who will <::omplete their college work by next June, there will be an examination for Profes- sional & Technical Assistants. Ap- plications may be filed up to De- cember 10, 1951. Exam will be held January 12, 1952. Bulletin No. 4250 for seniors in mathematics, eco- nomics, statistics, engineering, bi- ology, chemistry, library science, law, psychology, and journalism; No. 4251 for accounting. Descrip- tiv~ pamphlets and application blanks will be on hand at the Placement Bureau. Men interested in the U.S. Civil Service exams for Management and Professional Assistants are re- minded that the closing date Is November 13. Seniors who are majoring in physics, biology, geology, and chem- istry, who have not yet called .at the Graduate Council office for VICTORIA Restaurant Specializing In Italian Foods Jay Street (Cor. Union) comfort except the general overall pain that goes· with Liberia. \The rains a-re. tapering off and most things are just in a flowering cllmB:~C. If I could dry rapidly, J'd be happy, but I have dreao::lful times getting my plants dry. Two Weeks• Later \I have just returned to this comfortable .place (Tappita) after a two-week trek 'across the River Cess and into the Satro Mts., one of the· least known parts of Liberia. Most of the villagers had never be- fore seen a white m!J,n; I felt quite like a circus elephant -except no · .d one fed me peanuts. ·•,., \Food is the greatest problem in ! : '.:J making these hiking .trips. One · ;~,;,·;, doesn't want to carry heav-y can~ed '! stuff, and nothing ·else is much ·f good. I took along aH kinds of •·:·1 dried soups and· can testify that · ;\! ~~~:~JJ:!~::~:;r~:s ::::ap:~: ~ 1 bananas, sugar cane; chickens and , '·!< eggs. But ti:y eati!lg nothing but ! .'{) these for even three days in a vow. [ :··ii 'I ·reached a point where even the 1 :u· taste of a sweet and simPle ·banana ~ ,_._;l_:;,'~i. made me :wretch. I just wish all \kt the boys who even com·plained of H·t Bill South's cooking could have .. t•l: been along. Their gustatory elev:a- ·<f tion would •have been forever . 10 levelled·.\ Dorm Notice The $34.00 -for board fee will be paya:ble with the dormitory rent at the Bt.:siness Office between the ·,r,1 .~~i i ~~~ I{ .)t :_.,~ ';~ dates Nov. 12-16. · The new books for meal tickets for the second half of the current semester should -be picked up in West Coller e from Mrs. Briggs on Nov. 6 or 7 between the hours 11:30 a.m. and: 5 p.m. ,,·~ ' . -:~ Room rent ·Of $50;00 for the sec- ond half Of the CUrrent se!l'ester will be payable at the Business Of- fice between the dates November 12-16 inclusive during the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 12 noon and 1:00· p.m .. · and 3:30 p.m. A late paymer:t fee of $5.00 will be due after November 16. ---01--- J 1 ·~·t{ . 1/t 1 ':£ *·.<f ·.\$ ~~~t :tt ~'-,S '! ·l \ -~-' ,.·~ Die Fleder:maus I ,,~ 'fhe Schenectady Film Society will present its third foreign .film of the season Tuesday and Wec1 nesday with the sho'll.ing of \Die ! Fledermaus.\ This is the first color film pne- sentation of the popular Straus operetta. The film will be shown at the Crane Theater on ·932 Crane Street at 7 and 9 p.m. record sheets, are asked to come ip during the ensuing week. . On Tuesday and Wednesday, Nov. 13 and 14, there will be a rep- resentative here to talk to seniors· interested in intelligence work for the government. Sign up for ap- pointments at Wells House. on Leading Brsnds of WALLPAPER HARDWARE PAINTS & VARNISHES , HOUSEWARES CAP.ITOL PAINT & HARDWARE CO. 726 State St., i'h. 4·8393 TUESDAY, NOV. 13=Daily Ass1lm\ bly, Speaker, Prof. Clare Graves, review of \My Six Convicts\ by Donald Powell Wilson, MC, noon; Women's Staff Association, OC, FRIDAY, NOV. 16-Daily Assem- bly, Recital, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, MC, noon; Play Pt\Od·uction Hanna Hall, 1-6 p.m.; Varsity Soccer, Union vs. Colgate at Schenectady 2 p.m.; Facmlty Woman's Club, OC, 3 p.m.; Choir Rehearsal, MC, 4:30 p.m.; Gridiron Ball, Gyni, 10 p.m. to 2 a.m., Buddy Morrow and his Band with Jeanne McManus. LANGE & RAPP P.HARMACY COMING The November 30 issue of the Concordiensis will feature a polit- ical symposium by students on the presidential election of 1952. Sev- eral probable, and in other cases sought after, candidates will be spoken fot· at that time. As of now, President Harry Tru- man, General Dwight D. Eisen- hower, Senator Robert A. Taft, Senator Paul Douglas, and Justice William 0. Douglas shall be repre- sented. '\.Ve shall attempt to strike for a cross section of the promi- nent presidential timber. Sugges- tions and. articles fa vorl,pg various candidates in addition to the above mentioned are welcomed from the students. Snap Quiz With all the recent talk about benches recently, one bench on campus has been disregarded. If you can identify the permanent place of this bench, you will win a carton of Chesterfields dgarettes. f\ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - \The College Students Drug Store\ CHEMICALS- DRUGS Cor. Nott Terrace and State Street Your Official Prom Florist Ray Felthousen's Flowers - ·DISTINCTIVE CORSAGES - - - - - Boutonniere Included With All Orders - .. - - We object to the tactics of l\Ir. Buckley is trying to make education the property ofthe particular vested interest to which he belongs. Alumni donating to a university should be motivated by the desire to foster education, a broadening process, and not indoctrination of ;~.·oung men with their own and consequently narrow and one-sided value judgments. Education opens up avenues as wide as the mind can g1·asp and it permits individuals to determine for themselves what is the relative truth. Anything else than this is indoctrina- tion, totalitarian foisting of ideas, and not education. Nothing else can fit into the American democratic system and maintain the inviolate moral integrity and freedom of the mind that constitute our best weapons against totalitali- anism and- falsehood. D. E. S. We hope to arouse your political intet•est, which should be greater than It is, particularly among those who will vote next year. This is a symposium by and for students. All entries for this contest must be in the Concordiensls 'office by- Tuesday. No Concot•d!ensis staff members are eligible for the con- test, which is co-sponsot·ed by the Concordy and by Harvey Kronick, Chesterfields Cig~rette ca:mpus rep- resentative. ~ m st A •e STRFE. eRr· E E 0 E L 1 v ·E R Y _ 1 Call 6-6291 - 2-4310 - - - ~ - - - - ·- .iJIIIIIIIIIIIJ If 1111111111111111111 illlllll Ill 11111111111111111 f llllllllllllllllllfilt 1111111111111~ M] T~ The· thePm boal?ts 4 and Union· way. .Mil ~iddle Wing fc strong r· will .be t Union, VI ester· on burr, wi-: back fot· Stalker the halfl tlon wil Duke NE nis and l ·running don't fes the four of throw On th• be Buzz ends, Jol Varney! at centE side of t at guar< ricks on Unio Coach to start that he Jerry O'l ·will be a O'Meally and Joe Salerno bruno, B and Jesf the bacll -The C O'Loughl ends, K tackles, guards Hammer Snyder Folino a in the s! 0 Middle wins an• Norwich beaten E losing to and. Trii .only sch faced th dropped Larries r down un, scores. Coach on the b scores a1 the cute< dicta:ble. touchdoVI Panthers home fie Tom or: end of fc the two: past ye! eight ga five ties and Urtic the rubt series. JV (; Host Union'£ stage a I tnorrow 1 erful R Field. Due to two prev era, Mor1 will be ti campaigt resulting seriously net's cha wili be f However, in know- aggressh will be c bac;k suf ·linde1·dog son. Leadin: for the C tailback point pa1 en.ce bet fm• the neophyte to incor game fe1 ville to ·passing 1

1951 overall off and I'd ry. to this after e River i one Liberia. ever be- quite no wm be rent the current up In on hours sec- arrester Of- of :OO·p.m .. · fee Society fiTm Weel \Die pne- Stralis shown come a rep- seniors· for ap- 393 - - I - - 0 - - - I F. FR'IDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1951 / Middlebury Host To· Union Eleven Harry Markson Featured At Block U Sports Din.ner; ··Bronner as Toastmaster By John Keilnedy By Irwin Barg The :first annual Block \U\ Society-Schenectady Alumni The Union football team will move into Middlebury to face Association sports dinner will feature Harry Markson, gen- the Panthers. tomorrow afternQon, at 2:00 p.rn. Neither team eral manager of the International Boxing· Club of New York, boa~ts a go;od record for the season, Middlebury being 2 and. as the main speaker. T.he banquet will be held at the Van 4 and the Dqtchrnen having a 3-3 record. Nevertheless; . Curler Hotel, December 3, and Proessor Frederick Bronner, Union will be a slight underdog when the games ge'ts under- , 2 3, will be toastmaster~ way, Markson Old NewspaJMrman .Midds use Single Wing @> ------------~- Markson, a member of the Class of 1927, was born in Kingston, :r,iiLidlebury plays from a single- union Soccer Team N, Y., and was quite active here at Wing formation and featul'es a Union, especially on the Concordy, strong running attack. The Midds Faces Continentals where he was eventually manag- will be the first singlewing foe for ing editor. He started his career Coach F1ranz Gleich will make a. as a journalist, being a sports Union, with the exception of Roch- · H N few changes in the Union linel,lp writer with the Bronx orne ews, ester on a few plays. Burt Rath- when the soccer team meets a In addition to this, Mr. Markson l>ut'n wm be the starting quarter- visiting Hamilton team on Daly was a .free-lance writer for -the -back for the home team with Bob Field tomorrow afternoon at 2:00 New Yorker. Stalker and Dick Worthin[.tdn at P.M. The Garnet hooters will ·be From stmight journalism he seeking their second victory of the went .to Mike Jacobs' 20th Century the halfbacks. In the fullback posi- season against three losses. Sporting Club, which controlled all tion will be Dick Allen. Coach major pugilists, including Joe Louis I Duke Nelson also has Myers, Den- Slightly Change Team and others. He was publicity di- · - Jordon Greenfield will be the rector for this or,ganization and nis and Beevers to call on as added starting goalie, with Die!!; Munro gradually worked up to the front 1 running strength. The Panthers. and Jerry Heintzman at the full- office. don't feature one passer, as .ary of back positions. Ross Saddlemeyer Joined I-BC Early the four starting backs -is capable will return to the lineup in one of With the decline of the Jacobs k the halfbaclc slots, along with club, Markson joined the Inter- of throwing the pigs in. . . Fred. ftapa_nt and To· m Koenig. ·On h national Boxing Club where · e On the line for Middlebury will'. the offense, Dick Loeber and. Rhein is now general manager, This be Buzz -Tilton and Bill Cahill at ·Vogel will be right wing and right corporation virtually controls all ends, John Roy at left tackle, Jack inside, with Eric G'ansmueller at major fights throughout the 'coun- Varney at left guard and Dick Day·· center forward, and Carl Rheinitz try, because of its far-flung hold- at ~enter. Completing the right and Herb Rie at the other wing ings in sporting arenas and con- ~ide of the line will be Irv Morris and inside positions. Rie wlll be tracts with pugilists. at guard and Kupelick or Free •· · moved from Tight halfback to fill · Getting a speaker from the field rickson at tackle. in for Steg Gustaffson. of sports promotion marks a new Union to Start Same Club Professor· Bronner of the Class of 1923, shown above in a favorite pose, Will be the toastmaster at the Block \U\ all sports dinner to be held at the Va.n Curler, on December 3rd. , Hamilton will feature Jack Banks . departure for Union athletic din- . at goalie; Ed and Phil Baden- ners and should prove of great Coach Sam Hammerstrom plans hausen as fullbacks, and Gil Burke, interest to all who attend. It offers. chance to get together and honor ':( to start the same offensive lineup Chuck Frisbie, and Bob Ritt as alumni and undergraduates a good all varsity teams from the hill. I Williams Eleven Crushes Underdog Dutchmen, 40-0 By Bill Mohl'Dla.,nn Playing under the most adverse weather conditions, the Union College football team absorbed a sound thrashing at the hands of a heav~r and more powerfl:ll Williams eleven last Saturday at Williamstown. l\Iassachusetts. When the final whistle sounded the Ephmen had racked up 40 points and held the Dutchmen scoreless. Dutchmen Inept The Union running attack just did not get started, and the total effort on the ground for the Dutch- men amounted to a net of 13 yards. While the Garnet were un- successful on the ground, the Eph- men backs, with their heavier line out in front of them, churned for 288 yards. The near-blizzard con- ditions were a definite factor in the lop-sided victory as the depth and '-\'eight of Williams crushed the .Union attack. The pre-game dope concerning the power of the Ephmen was veri- . fied in the first half when they rolled up twenty points in the first quarter and fourteen in the sec- ond. Their final score came with two minutes remaining in the game. $---~- less until Dorsey tallied on a 52 yard run with two minutes left in the .contest. The Union offense in the second half consisted. of the pitching of freshman back, Jim Carrigg, recently -placed on the varsity from the J.V. squad. Union was able to roll up several first downs but several pass inter- ceptions stopped all scoring threats. 'The Ephmen rolled up fourteen first downs to Union's eight, which all ~amc as the result of passing. Worst Trounc1J1g This was the worst trouncing the D-utchmen have received this sea- son with the exception of their opening loss to St. Lawrence. With their record now even at three and three, the Garnet have two con- tests remaining this season. This · weekend they travel to Vermont to : The Ephmen after a short drive, face- Middlebury and they wind up 'opened the scoring early in the their season against Hamilton the first quar·ter when halfback John following week. Kulsar raced 12 yards for a touch- The loss to Williams was the down. Quarterback Paul Cramer 29th since the series originated and then put on a one man show as leaves the Dutchmen even further he tallied three times on short behind their rival. Union has bucks and converted on each oc- managed to win only ten contests casion, all within the space of against the Ephmen, while four Kulsar Scores First about twenty minutes. contests have been tied. Meanwhile, the Dutchmen suf- fered a serious loss when their star halfback, Len Klingberg, was carried from the field after being tackled on a kickoff return. Kling- berg, who has been alling all sea- .·. : __ t that he used against Williams. halfbacks. Harland Calkins will .be ., Jerry O'Loughlin and Randy Oram -center forward, with Phil Hills '''l · will be at en~s, Bill Friday and Ed and Willis Carman at t)Je wings :tl O'Meally at tackles, John Kennedy and Hal Vollmer and Bob Payne WRUC Airs Game Meal Tickets Legal Tender son with an arm injury, suffered a badly bruised knee. John Kennedy, student chairman, Tom Dorsey ended the Ephmen • and Joe Guerra at guards, and Jim at the inside positions. ':if Salerno at center. Tom Giam- Res~hedule Postponements ·l bruno, Bill Snyder, Len Klingberg, 1 and Jesse Dickson will make up There have been two changes in :j the backfield. the schedule for the soccer team. • Ths Garnet defense will fine I O'Loughlin and Dick Havill at ends, Kennedy ar.d O'Meally at tackles, Bradt and Friday at guards and Salerno at center. Hammerstrom will use Oram and Snyder as defensive halfbacks, Folino at fullback, and Klingberg in the safety position. Outcome a Toss-Up Middlebury's record stands at 2 wins and 4 · losses after losing to Norwich last Saturday. They have beaten Hamilton and Tufts, while losing to Wesleyan, St. Lawrence, and Trinity. St. Lawrence is the .only school that both teams have faced this season. The Panthers dropped . a 42-35 decision to· the Larrles making Union a five touch- do,vn underdog by the comparative scores. The game with Champlain, which was postponed due to inclement weather, will be played on Daly Field on November 13. The Albany game, also postponed because of bad weather last week, will be played in Albany on November 19. Colgate will be the last opponent at home for the boaters on No- vember 16. Harriers Vie At State Tilt A winning Union cross country team will encounter its stiffest competition of the season at the New York State small college meet at Alfred University. Alfred Favored Coach Hammerstrom feels that, The Garnet's stiffest opposition on the basis of other comparativE;). will come from the host Saxons. scores and reports on Middlebury, Thus far they have lost only one the outcome of the game is unpre- meet, a close squeaker to powerful dicta:ble. He puts Union as a one Cornell University. Among Alfred's touchdown underdog because the victims. are included the Red Raid- Panthers will be playing on their ers of Colgate, and with their depth home field. the upstaters are heavy favorites. Tomorrow's ga~e will marlt the Another interesting feature of end of football competition between the meet will be the renewal be- ·the two schools for-l3ome time. In tween Union's Dick Dolan and past years, each t~am has won · RPrs Ray Shanstrom. The Engi- eight games and there have been neer one of the best eastern small five ties. Thus, both Middlebury college harriers, will be out to and Union will be anxious to win avenge Dolan's earlier v!_ctory this the rubber game of the 22 game season. series. Bad Wea.ther Hampers JV Gridders Host to RPI The Dutchmen have been ham- pered by poor weather · conditions for the past week. Snow and rain . have prevented outdoe>r :practice, · and Coach Ketz thinks that this will be evident at the meet. The mentor also predicts that Union Union's Jayvee footballers will . stands a good chance of winning stage a belated season opening: to- if Larkin and Mechanic display the WBUC will present a; pla.y-by- play broadcast of the Union- Middlebury game, from Middle- bury, Ver.mont, tomocrow after. noon. The home' team has made facilities available in the press box to allow the broadcast de- spite w e a. t he r conditions. WRUC's director of sports, Dan Wiener, and Don Schwartz will be mlkeside when the game goes on the air at 1 :SO P.M., at 650 on yow· diaL The broadcast of l:ast SatUl'- day's Williams game had to be cancelled beca.use t:here was no protection provided for the! ex- pensive broadcasting equipment. A: protected press-box: will pre- vent such a recurrence this week. PAT. FORMICHELLI and his orchestra Available For All .Engagements \Sweetest Music This Side of State St.\ THE-ACME BARBERSHOP 509 UNION ST. \Where the Service is a Pleasure\ (Nearest to the Campus) · bas announced that the West Col- scoring in the first half when after lege dining hall will permit rebates a fumble had been recovered on of meal tickets in the same manner the Union five yard line, he carried as during fraternity rushing. This for a touchdown. will enable students to use the Passes Pace Unioq ticket as part of the payment for Using primarily second stringers the banquet ticket. in the final half, Coach Hammer- Final details have not been com- strom's eleven held Williams score- plated and will be announced in -;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;=::;;;;;;;;,i the Concordy and at chapel pro- l'i grams. Remember the date will be Monday, December 3. GREETING CARDS For All Oeeasions ACE Stationery Store Get Your Imprinted Christmas Cards Early!! \Fhwst Self'Ction Anywhere\ 24--Hour Photo Service 177 Jay Street Near StatP 'St. Jan!\ Wyman also He Ran .All The Way John Garfield Shelley Winters also . Mr. Imperium Vivien Leigh Marlon Brando nothing clannish about • Watches, Jewelry Clocks Repaired • Engraving, too! Jay Jewlery Co. Arrow Plaids •.. theyc;re the best-liked ..... sports shirts on campus! morrow as they play host to a pow- ·same performance as B-PI and ~~~ii~~~~~~~~~~~;~~~~~i~~~~~~~ erful RPI squad·. on Alexander Champlain, As usual the 'main re- , -I Field, . sponsibllity falls on the legs of · Due to the postponement of the Dolan, Clough, and MacKinnon. Sh U F fh p B I two previously .scheduled encount- Another adverse factor is that our arp p • Or e rom e • era Morrisville and Hamilton, this number five runner, Dave Brown, will be the only tilt of the cunent wiil miss the meet because of in- LAUNDRY-9 lb.os, Folded and Wrapped, 75c campaign for the neophytes. The juries. · d 89 resulting lack of experience will Our showing in this meet Will \ SUITS-Cleaned and Presse C seriously hamper the junior Gar~ give some indication- of the Union SHIRTS-B. ea-ut'lf' ully .F·.n·.-s.hed' 17 c net's chance of victory, sillce RPI team's showing at the coming will be fileding a seasoned eleven. IC 4 A meet, which will be held at SHOE RE. PAJRING--24-Hour Service However, what the jayvees lack Van Cortlandt park in New York in know-how they w!U mak~ up in City on November 19th. BR. ·ITE•W-. AY L_AU-ND. ROMAT aggressiveness, for the Dutchmen _.;;:~;;;;,;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;,;;;;;;;;;8J will be out to avenge a a4~0 set- back suffered ·at the hands of an ·tindeJ•dog Engineer 'team last sea- . son. Rubin at 'fai'l.back Leading the single wing offense for the Garnet will be b;oiple-threat tailback Dick Rubin, whose pin- point passing :r:h!!-Y me:an the differ- · ence between victory an.;i defeat for the Dutchmen. Nevertheless, neophyte meter Pete Nsitad plans to incorporate a potent running game featuring speedy Dick Ver- . ville to suppiement the polished 'passing attack. For Car Troubles See a Union Man Ask the Boys Who Trade Here William H. Plath Auto Service bOI UNION STREET Corner Barrett and Union Streets SAVE 15% ON FOOD COSTS SAVE 15% NOTT RESTAURANT AND BAR For Quick Take-out Orders Call Sch.-6.9766 Raw, Steamed Clams ••Meet a11d Eat at EDD·IE'S\ 547 Notf St., opposite Green Gate Schenectady, N. Y, MEAL TICKEtS-$5.75 for $!tOO with the new Arafold collar $4.50up ARROW ., SHiitTS • TIES • SPORTS SHIRTS • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS ....

I' PRICE 10 CENTS 4 Ex-Student Tells of Conditio,ns in Berlin Moving Day· Big Blast Terpsichore 'Sk:ellar Ups , Tab o·n Ales The truck procured by the (Continued· from Page :1) A d y k t. pearcohmfraCtoemrnml'tiytteheouws·em sFto~d at : , ident DiKon Ryan Fox. This bomb , .n , , a· , , a., a . · · on r1 ay, , was loaded with confetti which November 16, to pick up furni- would 'have been sent all over the Where do you fit into the class!-, Beginning Monday, November 12 • ture for the fraternity's booth Chapel by two loaded roman can- fication of male dancers? The, the price of Ballantine Ale will be a:t the Prom. If the furniture dies attached to an alarm clock: prom is but seven days away, a;ncl $.25 and Black E:orse Ale $.30 .at is not ready to be loaded onto : and a set of batteries. The ticking it's about time to del!ide definitely the Rathskeller. T·his Is an increas~ the truck at the time it arrives, , of the clock was heard, however,· where you wi!1 fit into the picture.· Herman Nickel, first student from Germany after the war and a graduate of Union last June, has written to tfie College painting a picture of conditions in Berlin. It is ac- : companied by an appeal to Americans to give to the Crusade . for Freedom to further Radio Fl'ee Eul'ope. @----------------------- Approaching \198l'' Nickel's first letters carried dis- couraging reports on the revival of Naziism and anti-semitism in the Western :Zone and the \terrible\ conditions in the Eastern :Zone. Berlin itself seems to show the most courage .and spirit for de- mocracy, but it is completely sur- rounded by :a setting compar.able to George Orwell's \1984\ in the East. \There is the terrible lot of the people in the East. They are so close to the West, and particularly to Berlin, to adjust their motiva- tions, hopes and ambitions to the realities of complete dictatorship. It is a mental torture for them ... These people live with but one touch with our world-Radio Free Europe and RIAS, the station in Western Berlin.\ Nickel adds, \One of the things that strikes y9u, when you return to Berlin after four years in Amer- ica is the 1.1tter impossibility for those who have never experienced the atmosphere of totalitarian ter- ror to understand or imagine its full impact. Even I needed this re- turn to Berlin to regain the full realization of what dictatorship means.\ McCarthyism Hurts Santee l\J ew Fund Ch'mn Howard B. Santee, New York,' has been elected chairman of the: Union College National Alumni Fund at the most recent meeting of Union's official alumni repre- sentative organization, the Gradu- ate Council. Succeeds Hequembourg Mr. Santee, who succeeds Charles. L. Hequembourg of Schenectady, is a member of the class of 1916. He has been active in the New York Alumni Association for a number of years, and is a partici- pant in the affairs of the Gradu- ate Council. On assuming office, the new cha:lrman stated that under present conditions, \Private colleges and universities are compelled more and more to turn to their alumni to fill the increasing gap created by the diminishing income from their investment and the increasing cost of operation.\ Under the direction of Mr. San- tee the fund will attempt to raise $100,000 through the solicitation of the 9,161 Union alumni scattered all over the world. There are, at present, about 1,600 Union alumni in tP,e New York metropolitan area. Employed by Western Electric After his graduation from Union in 1916, he was employed by the Western Electric Company, and is now the Patent Licensing Manager of that company. that house will be passed up, ·and the gomb was removed from The prize package Is \Dan the of $.0 5 .on each. and they will forfeit their op- the chandelier 42 seconds before it Dancer?\ He's the type ·Of guy· Last spring the ·~kellar absorbed portunity to have the fu.rniture was to go off. who will go up to a gil•l and some- . a wholesale price .rise on beer with- moved. The schedule of pjck- Librat·ian Helmer Webb placed what stutteringly ask her to dance. out raising its ptlces. Howevet, ups Is: , the captured ·bomb, along with The impression he leaves with the the membership has now decided Alpha Delta Phi 9.00 a.m. . newspape 1 • accounts, into a 10cked pool' unsuspecting, female is that on the increase ·because of a 5% Delta Chi 9:20 a.m. , display case on Saturday after- he is a rather poor dancer. He decline in .its profit margin on Delta Phi 9:40 a.m. ; noon. When the library was opened usually gets his dance because this beer, from the year 1950-1951. It Delta Upsilon 10:00 a.m. Monday morning, the bomb was sort invariably brings out the rna- was also noted that the two ales Kappa Nu 10:20 a.m. gone and a resolution explaining terna:l instinct in the girl. And were returning a profit of 5-10% Kappa Sigma 10<40 a.m. its disappearance was found in its then-he slowly warms up, and for- l'ess than the three beers. No;v Phi Delta Theta 11:00 a.m. · place. / gets he has· a partner-he's so-o-o thal a new federal tax is in dfe~t Phi Gamma Delta 11:20 a.m. Brolte Into :Librnl'Y good! the profit margins would be even Phi Sigma Delta 11:40 a.m. Big Talk · more out of line. For thes, e rea- p · Investigation re-veals that the · Sl Upsilon 1:0() p.m. \H th H t\ k · 1 s. ons among others the Rathskeller 'Sigriui Chi l:2() n,m. building was entered between clos- arry e epca as s a gtr was £ox·ced to raise its .prices. \' ing time 10 P.M. Sunday and open- to dance as if he were Louis B. Sigma Phi 1:4() p.m. ' ing time 8 A.M. Monday, keys were\ Mayer asking a starlet to star in a Kappa Alpha 2 :0() p.m. · taken from Miss Thompson's deslt, ml1lion dollar picture extravaganza.. t Another pl'ice PC?licy twt ali millafn- Chi Psi 2:20 p.m. ained however. 1gare elf w re- Beta Theta Pi 2 : 40 p.m. and· the apparatus was removed While twirling his partner back main at $.ZO per pack even thou~rh from the display case. Mr. Webb land forth like a yo-yo, he is con\ th f d raJ tax increases their Beta Eta Upsilon 3 :OO p.m. admitted that \it was a good prac- stantly speaking a line of jive e new e e . . . . Theta Delta Chi 9:20 p.m. · t!ca:l joke,\ but if someone can \jargon. cost by one ·cent on a pack, Phi Sigma Kappa 3:40 p.m. · t 1 k -;;;;:;;;;;,;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;,;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;,;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;; walk off' wi h an alarm c oc • ., r--------~·---- \what will happen to the valuable 1 1 ! books put there the rest of the .1 Famous Chinese and' year?\ n was not determined James Restaurant/ (c t . whether an\ money was taken, as 1 .. , I American Foods Mathias on mued from Page 1) ' ! dustrlal machine worlt. He came nobody counted the change on Sun- I e , LUM FUNG to Union five years ago after serv- day evening. · ·1 ing as a foreman in the electronics The last time the bomb prank GOOD FOOD department at General Electric. was discovered, the college elim!- I Restaurant During the war he taught at Gen- nated 90 % of the student body \'t pr'c· ·ou c ff rd l from suspicion on the grounds I .. I es y . an a. 0 ' • s~sr LIQUORS eral Electric's industrial training \that they were incapable of build- 1 . I ~ . . school at Easthampton, Mass. ing so clever a device.\ . Booth and Fountain Servictt l AND COCKTAILS A nati-ve of Schenectady, Mr. The incident has already received ' ! Mathias attended public schools in publicity in the New York \Times I 426 State Street j ~· the city and com]lleted his educa- the Associated Press, from John 1 135 Broadway Phone b-9595 · .. : tion at Schenectady High School. Camer.on Swayze, and the Pough- I I ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~·-~-~--~--~--~--~-~--~--~--~-~· Everything in Music Pianos - Orgens Televi$ion-Radio Combinations Records - Sheet Music - Phonographs I I STEWART'S Stop By - Make Your O~n Sundae or Banana Split Attention Hous~e Stewardsll For Eocnomic~l Desserts-1/2 Gal. Pkgs. \Senator McCarthy not only gives aid and comfort to their (Eastern Germans) escapism, but every time McCarthylsm takes an- other step they conclude gleefully that there is no moral alternative between Moscow and the West ... This alternative does not He be- tween reactionary Communism and recationary anti-Communism-but between naked despotism and the partnership of a multitude of open societies. \It Is not yet 1984, but George Orwell's world is nearly complete. It is a world based on power and fear-so closely related. The ruling groups in power now, as in Hitler's day, know that they cannot stay without terror.\ He married the former Beulah May Stebbins in 1918. They have a • daughter, Mary. Their only son, Paul, graduated from Union in 1942, and lost his life while serving ROBERTS PIANO COMPANY 203 STATE STREET Open. Thursday Until 9 P. M. All Flavors-$1.00 Creamy Dou~le Dip Frosts - 30c Free Delivery on Orders for I Sal. or More Nickel goes on to describe cer- tain examples of terrorism. Some of these are work in Ut•anlum mines where death results from ' \natural causes\ after two years. The People's Police headquarters is another means. Recently 18 high school l!hildren, age 15-18, were sentenced to prison from three to fifteen years for carrying leaflets from the W~Jst. Nickel comments: We Oan Only Taik \Shouldn't that suffice? Shouldn't that be enough to break anybody's spirit? Almost, but not quite. There are still radios which are tuned to Western Berlin in West· ern Germany, the two stations of Radio Free Europe are not enough but they are there. \What can we do for these peo- ple, these fellow men? No, we can't move in with military might- that is neither possible nor right. We can do pitifully little. But we can talk to them.\ Nickel appeals for expansion of Radio Free Europe by aiding the Crusade for Freedom. He also gives hope for revolution within the Soviet Union because of \ten million prisoners\ there. Nickel is at present teaching a seminar in Western European L. G. BALFOUR CO. fraternity Jewelers BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY- PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or call CARL SORENSEN SO lllurray Ave. Waterford, N.Y. PHONE TROY-ADAMS g...252S TUXEDOS and ACCESSORIES Furnished and Sold OTT A VIANO'S Sartorial Bar 114 JAY ST. Acrosf from City Hall In the Air Forces in the last war. Unity at the American House in Berlin and has been accepted at the Hochschule (Institute for Poli- tics) and also hopes to study at the Free University in Berlin. GUERRA'S PHARMACY • Fountain Phone 2-2493 GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall X-RAY FITTING 245 State St.-Sinee i895 ---- -·- -·------- ... , : Serving Union•s Men 1 1 For Years : : See your agent on Campus I I : UNITED : 1 I CLEANERS : : TAILORS I I Phone 4-5676 : I 114 State St. near Ferry 1 '--------.a------· Prescriptions Sundries ~---------------------------~ • 600 Union St., Cor. Barrett St. I · I :DISTINCTIVE MEN'S WEAR I I I :Capital Men's Shop, Inc. : I I I I ·I 167 Jay Street Sc:henctady, N. Y. : '-------------~-------------~ One sip of this will bathe the drooping spirits in delight:~ ·beyonJ the bliss of dreams Milton's Comut Milton must have peered into a crystal ball to write these lines. How else could he have foretold the delicious, refreshing goodness of Coca-Cola 1 BOTTlE!) UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY SCHENECTADY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY @ 1951, TH! COCA·COLA COMPANY 122 Not+ Terrace One Block From Campus GAZETTE PRESS Printers ~\\~' '(§~(',\~ (}\\Q\\j JAY ST.)[W(l{iS CJrJiJSiJI'! a diamond here is assurance of exceptional beauty and unsurpcassed value Diamonds from our quality-selection ore cherished for generations. There is . . gratifying choice in sizes and settings \SERVING SCHENECTADY FOR 3 GENERATIOtfS~· Vol. 79, No.

' I '. PRICE 10 CENTS 4 Ex-Student Tells of Conditions i.n Berlin M - · n · ··Bra B- -~- t ·T-- • h ·-'8_-.k.- ·el_larU· __ -ps • _- ovtng ay •. - l'g · - __ as · · - erpstc - ore P;o~- ctroumckm' i' tPt_er~cuwrelldl btyo thet (Continued from ~ge 1) An· . d. y· a· kat- a ' T' ,· . ' 'a- b' ·_ . •0 .. ·n. . . A' _· -l·es· · ~- - s P a , ident Dixoli Ryan Fox. This .bomb _ · : ; ' • _ · _ _ · , ·_ .. each fraternity house- on Friday, : , was loaded with confetti which · N b 16 t I 1 - • Beg. Inning. Monda·~. N_, o:ve_ \\be\ 12, ovem er , o p c t up ~ui;ni- · would have -been seat ali over .the Where do you -fit Into the class!· J· \' • Herman Nickel, first student from Germany after the -._ tur:e f9r the ·fraternity's booth , , CP,apel ~Y two 'loaded roman can- ficatlon of male dancers? The the pric!'l of Ballantln.e• 4-le will be war and a graduate of Union last June,, has written to tne :. e,t the Prom. If the furniture dies att:a.ched to an alarm clock prom is bUt seven days s.way, and $.25 and Black H;orse Ale ,.so at College painting a pjcture of conditions in Berlin. It is ac- . is ilot ready to bE) lMded onto and a set 9f batter-ies. 'l'he tickillg it's about tilne to dec14e definitely the ];tathskeller. This Is an ilicreas!l · d b l A . the truck at the time it arrives, · · ·of ti:J.e cloclr was heard, however,, where you wili fit Into the picture. compame •. y an appea to nwncans to give to the Crusade ; : that hO~se will be pass()d up, and the gornb was removed fro~ T!;le prl~e package is \Dan the of ~.05 ·on each. for Freedom to further Radio Free Europe. - · al!-d t;hey will ;forfeit thei:v QP· · · thl;l cha 11 Q:eljer 42 second~ before it :Dancer?\ :a:e'!3 tl:le type of gUY • Last spring the 'fikellar absorbed por.tunlty to have the furniture · , was to go off. _ who will-go up to a girl and aom!'l- a wholesale price J,'il!e on. beer .witll\ S moved. The schedule of 1ii:ck- :Li];)rarlan Helmer Wel:lb placed what stutterh!.gly a13k her to dance. out raising its prices. How~ver, Nickel's first letters c-arried dis-: . ·-a·- n._ .te· e N' ew· '_ ups is: the !Jli.ptured bornp, along with. The Impression he. leaves with tbe the membership has now dec!de<l· couraging reports on the revival of' Alpha Delta Phi 9:00 a.m. newspaper acco]jnts 1 Into a look~d poor unslispectip.g • female io; th1!-t :on the increase .because -Pf ~ 5% NaziiSm. 'and anti-semitism in the F d Ch' Delta Chi 9:20 a.m. : display- case on 1:\attn:•day after- 1;le is a r.athel1 poor dancer. ~e 'de'¢1i~e ill, . its ·profit margin on Western :Zone and the \terrible.. . . U_ n_. '-. . . ' . . •m- . n __ . . . Delta 1,=>hl 9:40 a.m. . noon. When the lipl'ary was op$ned .. usually gets his d.aJ:lCe l;Jecause t:b-1$ . be¢r; f':r:om the year 1950.:1,~51. ·_ 1t Approaching \1984\ conditions in the Eastern :zone. · Delta Upsilon 10:00 a.m. Monday xnornlng, the bo~_b wa~-: sort invariably brings out tlie ma- · Waiil a!stl noted that· the. two al~:;s Berlin itself seems to show the Howard B, Santee, New York, Kappa N\1 10,:20 a.m. ·· .. gone and a. resoll,ltion expiaining :ternal instinct in the gb.'I. And were retur!ling -a p1·oflt o:t 5-:J,P% most courage .and spirit for de- has been elected chairman of the, Kappa Si~a 10:40 a.m •. • ·its disappearance was found In its then~he slowly warms up, and tor- ·less tttan the three bee'-'S· Now mocra,cy, but it i!3 completely sur-' Union College Natlonai Alumni . · Phi Delta Theta 11:00 a.-m .. : plaQe. ,- gets he has a .partner-he'~ so-o•o that. ·a new feder~l tax is in ~ffe&t rounded by $ setting comparable to Fund at the most recent meeting. Phi' Gamma Delta 11;20 a.m. .. Br()lte ~to Library _.good! . the profit margins. wolild be even <,leorge Orw·ell's ''1984\ in the East. ·of Union's officiai alumni repre- l?hi Sigma Delta i;l: 4 0 a.m. · InVestigation .reveals that the Big T~ more o1,1t -of U;ne. Fm; ,these rei\.- , \There i~ th11-_ terrible lot of the sentatlve organization, the Gradu~,. Psi Upsilon l:OO P·Il'l· ', • building was entered betw~en clos• \Harry the Hepcat\ asks a girl sons •am<;mg othet's. the- ~!1-ths:\te!l~r 1 · th E t ·T · ate Council. SigmaiChi. <t-:20 p.m. · 1 o s· d · d- to_ dance as if he were. Louis B.. was forced to J?aise its prl()es, - peop e 1n e as . hey are so Sigma P)ii 1 :4oo p.m. · mg t me l P.M._ un ~y an .' open- - , close to the West, and particularly Kappa Alpha 2 :()0 p.m. · ing tirne 8 A..M. Monday, keYii! were · Mayer asking a starlet to star in a· Another price poli!ly was rnaln~ to Berlin, to adjust their motiva- Su~ He'quemhou.tg · ·Cl:).l Psi ~: 20 p;m. · taken f;rom ¥iss 'rhompson's desk, million dollar pict1,1re ex:t1·avag:;~n~a. tai'ned however. Qig~retteB\'Wii1·r!7' tlons, hopes and ambitions to the Mr. Santee, who succeeds Charles : Beta Theta PI 2 : 40 p.lli,. and the apparatus was removed· While twirling' his partner back main ~lot $,20 per pack .even though realities of -complete dictator)?hip. L. Hequembou1•g of SchEmectady, Beta Eta. Upsilon a:OO p.m. from the display case. Mr. Webb and forth like a yo\yo he is con• · the new :federal tax increases their It is a mental torture for them .•. Is a member of the class of 1916. 'Th t n· It Chi & 2 - · .: admitted that \it was !'i, . .good prac- atantly spealting a iine of jive- cost by- one_ ce __ n_t on, a_ -pack. Th~se people live with but one He has been active in the New : p· e a -. e a . - : 0 p.m .. ·. tical joke,\ J>ut lf someone can jargon. . -~~--~-~-\---~---'-~....... ouch with our world-Radio Free York Al~nini ,Association for a walk off with an alarm cloc;k, ._. _r---....-_ . · ---_- -·- _ _ . __ t _ . . hl. Sigma Kappa · ·:4Q p.m. Europe and BIAS, the station in number of y~ars, and is a particlw. \what will happe;n to the valt1abhi I i Western Berlin.\ pant in the affairs of the Gradu- Math_. ia· s . bookll put there the rest of the • . . • F.atnous Chinese an.d Nickel adds, \One of the things ate Qouncil. . . . year?'' It WI'\S not determined\' Je~me.s ;Re .• staurant I -·.:·--·! Amerlc:a_i'l Fo_· ods that strikes you 1 when you return Oil assuming office,. the new · (Continued from Pll;ge 1) whether any money was taken, as . , to Berlin after four years in Amer- ·chairman stated that under present dustrlal machine work. He came nobody counted the change on_ Sun_- . . ica Js the utter impossibility for conditions, \Private colleges and· to Vnion five years ago after -serv-. day evening. LUM fU.N:G those \'ho have never experienced. universities are compelled more. ing as a foreman in the electi;onics . The last time the bomb prank GOOD FOOD the atmosphere of totalitarian ter- and n10re to turn to their alumni department at General Electric •. wall discovered, the college eUmi- ! . ·. . - ·- • Restaur.Qnf ror to und;er!;itand or imagine its' to fill the increasing gap created During t}).e war he til.ught at -Gen· n·ated 90 '% of tbe student body·. at prices you can ~fford. . --· l full impact. Even I needed this re- by the dimln,isb:ing income from· eral Electric's industrial tra,irting ·from suspicion on the grounqs · · ; B!;ST LIQUORS turn to Beriin to regain the fuli their Investment and the increasing; school at Easthampton_ I M_ ass. . \th?-t they were Incapable of build- B th d F t . s· • l ali ti f cost of operation.\ . ing so clever a device.\ o.o an. . oun aln ·_ ervac:a ·, AND• COCKTAILS :\'la~:,\ on P what dictator13hip Under the direction of Mr. San• A native of Scl:tenectady, Mr. The ineide:nt has already received l tee the fund will attempt to raise M:;:~.thias attended public schools· i:P. publicity in the New York ''Times/' 426 State Street . · . 'l MoCarthyism Hurts '$100,()00 through the solicitation of tl+e city and completed his educa-- tb.e Associated Press, from John •,_' 13_ .. o--B_r_o ___ ad_w_,a_·._y --~-h_:_n~ ~--.~~9-S __ · \S t M c t the 9,161 Union alum_ ni scattered· t_ion at Schenectady :aJg_ h_ School. 'Camerpn Swayze, and 'th!! Pough- .• . ena or c ar hy not only gives aid and comfort to their ·all over the world, There are, at ~~;;;;~~~~~~;;~~~~~~;;;~;;;;~~~~~~~~ (Eastern Germans) ~sca,pism, but . present, about 1,690 Union alumni 1 ~ S'TEWART·s· every time McCarthyism takes an- in Uie New York mE?tropolitanarea.· other step th(ly' conclude gleefully Employed by Western EleCtric that there is no moral a:lternative . between Moscow and the West. . . After his gra:duation from Union. · This alternative does not ue be- in 1 9 1 6, he was. employed by t:he tween reactionary Communism and Western Electric Qompap.y, and ls recationary anti-Communism-but now the Patent Licensing Manager between naked despotism and the of that company. - He married the former Beulah · partnership of a Jllultitude of ope11 May Stel;>bins in 1918. .Th_e,• havn n societies. • ~ ~ · daught~r, Mary. Their only son, \It is not yet 1984, but George Paul, graduated from Union In Orwell's world is nearly complete. 1942, .and lost his life while serving It is a world based on power and In the Air Forces in the last war. fear-'-So closely related. The ruling groups in power now, as in Hitler's day, know that they cannot staY without terror.\ Nickel goes on to describe cer- tain exam}lles of terrorism. Some of these are work in Uranium mines where death results from - \natural causes\ after two years: Unity at the American House in Berlin and has been accepted l;l.t the Hochschule (Institute for Poli· tics) and also hopes to study at the -Free University in Berlin. ·GUERRA'S PHARMACY Everything in Music Pianos - Organ' Television~Radio Combinations Records - Sheet Music ~ Phonogra,phs ROBERTS PIANO COMPANY 203 STATE STREET Phone Z..249S GOOD SH~ES FOR .STUDENTS and FACULTY \.--_SJt·~~-­ :!11 11 . -~ ... Open Thur!ldll.y Untn 9 P. M. .:.• ------ -- .... ----- r.:: -~ - - - - , I · : Serving Union•s Men 1. • 1. For Years· : _ ·· 1 1 . See your agent on Campu1 I _ . . - I I UNITED I _I I I CLEANERS •·· The People's Police- headquarters Is another means. Recently 18 high school children, age 15~18, were sentenced to prison from three to fifteen years for carrying leaflets from the West. Nickel comments: 1 1 _ TAILORS 1_. • Patton & Hall 1 We ()an Only Ta3k ~-RAY FJ:'rriNG .. 1 _ Phone 4-5676 i ...._ . . Stop By'- Make Y ol.if _p~n. Sundae or Ban<'!lna Split Attention Hous·e S+ewardsH For Eocnomic~l Desserts.-lh Gal.. Pkgs. - All Flavors-- $t.:oo Creamy ·Pou~le. Dip Fr6sfS',..: 3~c : Free Delivery on Orders· for I $al. ot More -~ 122 Nott Terrace One Blod( Fr<:!m. C.<~mpus : GAZETTE PRESS Printers ~·shouldn't that suffice? Shouldn't Fountain m state st.-since islli> I 114 State St. near Ferry i· _ that -be enough to brealt anybQdy's '- • 1111'111!111111!1• • •- -·* • llil -~: spirit? Almost, but not quite. p • • · · -- - -~;~~;E~~~~~;;;~5;55;~5;;;;;:;~E;~;;;;!;;;=:~~~ There are stili .radios which are rescr1ptlons ,.•••••-----------~------------- tuned to Western Berlln in West-. · I · I: · er:n Germany, the two stations of Sundries ·':II· D f S T I H C T IV E MEN 'S W_ EAR 1. 1 _ Radio Free Europe are not enough but they are there. · .I \ · pl:~::E!~eU:~dom~~? th~~. p~~- • -. ··._: 1 _ Capital Men-' 5 Shop,. l.nc.: 1 ._· c-an't move in ~th mUtta.ry might- · that is neither possible nor l'ight. 600 Union St., Cor. Barrett St. ' I We can do pitifully little. But we , _ 1 1 1&7 Jay Str'?et · S¢hea•c_ tady, N. Y. I can tallt to them.\ , ' 1 Nickel appeals for expansion of I ~==::::=::=::=55::==:5::=~!Jf~--~- ~- -~- ~-~--~-~-- ~-~-~-~-~--~-~-~~~~~~- -~-!.!-~·!•. ~-- ~~~~~~-~-~·--~-~- -~- -~-~--~-~-~--~-~--~--~- ~-~- ~..ld .. · Radio Free Europe by aiding the I Crusade for Freedom. He also g,ives hl)pe :for revolution within the Soviet B'nion because of \ten I.'Xli!lion prisoners\ there. Nickel is at present teaching a seminar iii Western ·European L. I. BALFOU'R CO. fraternity Jewelers BADGFS • RINGS • FAVORS . JEWELRY LEATHER GIETS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MIIDALS - TROPHIES Write .or caJl CARL SORENSEN SQ Murra:y .A:ve. Waterford, N.Y. PHON]ll .,.:'ROY-AnA,MS 8-U:!S TUXEDOS and ACCESSORIES Furnished and Sold OTTAVIANOiS Sartoricd Bar 11-4 JAY ST. Acrosf from CitY Hall will bathe the drooping spt'r~ts in delight, , _ 'keyonJ the kliss oj dreams .Milton's ComrU Milton must hav¢ peered. into a crystal ball to write th~se lines. How else could he have foretold the delicioliS, f$dJ refreshing goodness of Coca-'Cola 1 IOT'ri.EJ) UNDER AUTHORITY Of THE COCA-COLA COMPANY llY SCHENECTADY COCA-COLA BOT.TLING COMPANY @ 1951, tH! CO~COLA COMPANY ~.,~,~~an~ ()\\\\\\l~AV ST. J(W(L(iS CJddtJiiJtJ a di .. mond here ,i• assurance. of e~ceptional beauty and unsurpasse:CI ;ralu• Diamonds from our quali.ty-selection are cherished for generations The • • - re 1s gratifying choice in sizes .;nd settings \SERVING SCHENECTADY FOR 3 GENERATIONS'' .. Vol. 79, No.

12, be at 5% on It re- 1 The IFC Welcomes You to the Prom Vol. 79, No.8 F9unded at Union College in 1877 Schenectady, N. Y .. November 16, 1951 Price Ten Cents ere· ' eer ---·----·------- . -----·--·------ At the Prom Above left is shown a scene from last yea1·'s pl'()ID which is expedi!!d to be approximated tonight at the Gridiron Ball as the long awaited prom weekend arrives. Above right is Buddy Morrow whose band will supply the music between 10-2 in the Gym. Far left is Jeanne McManus lissome vocalist and on her right is Frankie Lester. the male count~rpart. While the big event is scheduled only t() run for the weekend, festivities are expected to last until Thanksgiving vacation.

12, be at jed 5% .on .1t belr '.·' J •· . . ' . The IFC Welcomes You to the Prom ~--------~-- . -- ----- --------- ----- -------~--- - ------------------ Qlnurnrbtrunis 79, No.8 Founded at Union College in 1877 Schenectady, N. Y., November '16, 1951 Price Ten Cents ere· ' eer At the Prom Ahove ldi i~ shown a scene from last year's prom which is expected to be approximated tonight at the Gridiron Ball as the long awaited prom weekend arrives. Above right is Buddy Morrow whose hand will supply the music between 10-2 in the Gym. Far left is Jeanne McManus lissome vocalist and on her right is Frankie Lester, the male counterpart. While the big event is scheduled only t() r.ult for the weekend, festivities are expected to last until Thanksgiving vacation.

November \6, \951 Page Two Independents Pass Constitution The constitution of the Independent Council was unani-0------------------------ mously passed at a meeting of the independents in Me- R 1• • L d moria! C~apel Wednesday, thus creating an independent ·e Igi. ous ·. ea er orgamzatwn on campus. · Sixty-one independents attended 0---------------- ~~~i:~~!~gi;e;~~ ~fseoat.~~c;:eed 0 !~ Dr 0 Davidson Speaks Nov 2·6 that time to hold el~ction~ f~r • members f~r the Council, whiCh IS Reveals New the governmg body of the group, on Wednesday, November 28. Seven 0 members. elected at large by a:ll Appointment~ non-fraternity students, comprise IC the body. A president and a secre- tary-treasurer shall be elected from the Council. Dr. Carter Davidson has an- r ounced two appointments to fill positions in the English Depart- The organization has been un- ment and on the library staff. Reverand Andte Trocme, a leading French Protestant leader, will be the speaker during Religious Emnhasis Week which will be held the week of November 26. He will be her~ from November 27-29 and will speak at Tuesday and Thurs- day noon Chapels and Wednesday evening as well as to vari- ous other groups on campus. derwritten for all financial re- Fet•tl.nand Helm, Jr. has been Reverend Trocme is best known~>'------- sponsibility up to $190. The :fi:rum- appointed instructor in English for for his work at Le Chambon-sur- mal prnblem of the group was one the balance of the first term to Lignon which is a small town in of the main concerns of the Stu- take over the sections of Professor France. This town is over ninety dent Council when the constitu-~ Bertrand M. Wainger and for the percent Protestant, but, in it peo- tion was outlined to them. secor: d semester to teach the sec- pie of all religions are welcomed The Independent organization is tions of Professor Raymond H. and helped. It works on the basis designed to provide for the social Herrick wl:o will be on leave of of complete religious and racial needs of independents. No uni- absence. toleration, and it has made great versa! dues shall be levied on the ~r. .Helm rp~ived his BA . ~t I strid~s in that direction by demon- membership-at-large, but members Umon m 1937, h1s MA at Columuta , stratmg that people of many na- will pay according to the functions University in 1938 and is a candid- tionalities can live happily to- they attend. The Council shall ad- ate for a doctor's degree at Colum- gether, regardless of religious be- minister these functions. bia. He served at Union as in- lief. The constitution will be sub- structor in English from 1938 to The l'eligious activities of the I mitted to the Student Council at 1939 an~ as lecturer in English at town consist of such thin~s as mg- its Tuesday night meeting for Col~mbi'_' from 1 ~3 9 to 1 95 1 . Fol- ulai' worship, market place serv- recognition of the newly formed 1 ?wmg fiVe. year~ .m the arm~ as a ices, religious instruction, assist- group. A previous motion before hf'uten~t m Mtlltary Intelligence ance to the sick, a men's choir, the Council four weeks ago was ~~~ Mlbtary Government he ~e- and the Protestant Fami'lies Asso- defeated because a wt•itten consti- JJOmed t~e Colun;'bla faculty as m- ciation .. The last is a group which . . st1·uctor m Enghsh. From 1948 to h 1 th to • tub~n was not presen~ed. President 1950 he was on the faculty of the e ps e wn s families worlt to- D~vid Dalrath appomted a com- University of Nevada. gether and has control of a large mittee of Oscar Grusky, Pat Lak- W It P'Jk' t h b part of the town's entertainment. h . D . 1 M G d a er 1 In on as een ap- Tl · 1 dit . s mmarsu, . ame c raw. an pointed as a reference librarian in us group runs a arge au ormm Hueston Collmgwood to prepare a th Coli L'b f D called the Foyer Cevenol. . In this d ft e ege 1 rary as o ecem- ~udt'tori'um p opl · ra · ber 1, 1951. A native Englishman, ·w ' e e see movms or The Committer of Student Af- Mr. Pilkington received his bache- shows put on by the town's in- fairs and Relations cecided to take lor degree from Brown University 'habitants. no aetio!_l on the organization when and is a graduate of the Columbia However, the most important it came be:fore them two w~eks Library School. Since that time work of tbe community is in fields ago. This group has final say on he has served as a reference as- which are not entirely religious. the recognition of the Independent sistant specializing in American The College Cevenol, for instance, organization. History in the New York Public is a secondary school which has Wilford H. Ketz, Coordinator of Library and as a script writer for students from all over the world. Student Activities, will supervise the radio series Mr. President. This It has about three hundred stu- the November 28 election. Peti- spring Knopf will publish his re- dents, and only about fifty of these tions for candidates must be sub- cently completed Book of Presi- are from the Cevenol region. Al- mitted with fifteen names bv Mon- dPnts. Mr. Pilkington Vlill do re- though the educational theory of day, November 26, to the Student ference and bibliographical work the school is based on religious Activities Office. for the College Library. faith, no religious services are com- ----o 0 pulsory, and it is composed of • M'b k T • t Christians, Catholics, Jews, and Glee Club to Give . an s OPIC a even non-believers. T T 1k There are also the Genets, an Recital on Monday !PuR~~n~!lr?o~gani~tionsand ~J:m~~;~~~~e ~::1 ~!a~~~~~~;;; The Union College Glee Club will an out(l.)or commencement were infirmary which is open in the present its first concert of the the leading topics for discussion at summer and brings children from year when they appear in noon the annual Tippecanoe conference the surrounding mining districts chapel next Monday. The Fall of fa.culty and stl.l.dents held last for a vacation; \The Little Faro- campus concert will be held on Sunday in Hale House. ily\ whiCh is a home for orphans; Saturday evening Dec. 1 in Mem- Prof. Donald S. Jones, faculty and the Artisans' cooperative, a orial Chapel. This apearar.ce will leader of the Mountebanks, said group of families which are under be a joint concert with the Russell that he was waiting for the report church auspices and have a com- Sage Glee Club and will consist of of the committee assigned to in- mon work center from which they several groups by each organiza- vestigate the theater group before make toys, music boxes, and the tion climaxed by the combined making any definite statements. like in order to supplement their voices of both groups in the sing- He praised the committee for their incomes. ing of four choruses from the thorour hness in investigation. All of these groups worlt under \Messiah.\ Jay Cohn1 president of the Class the supposition that all men are In next Monday's chapel the club of '52, informed the conference that equ11.l and tha.t men can live in plans to do some of the more popu- thp Senior Class had voted over- peace, regardless of their external Jar songs which will not appear on whelmingly in favor of an outdoor beliefs. Le Chambon is a quiet the Dec. 1 program. co:nmencement, which in case of decent community which would be Skeller Hours rain could be held in Memorial the same as hundreds of others if Chapel. The principle considera- it were not for the fact that here tion was to move commencement men are men, not Frenchmen, on campus and out of the Plaza Jelws, or negroes. Theater where it has been held for During the war, the region was the last two years. a haven for all those who were REVEREND ANDRE TROCME down in Le Chambon and, since then, has led the people in an at- tempt to show the world that peace is possible. Here, to a greater ex- tent than any other place in the world, the people are lighting can- dles instead of cursing the dark- ness. Dave Walrath, the president of the Student Council, visited Le Chambon two summers ago. Dave worked and studied at the College Cevenol and, therefore, had an ex- cellent opportunity to observe the community and how it operated. He never met Reverend Trocme, but he was very impressed by the work which was being done. He commented that it was a really great experience to see people of all religions, races and occupations working together in a degree of harmony that he would never have believed possible. OJ--- Concert Presents Old Instruments The Early Music Ensemble of the University of Minnesota at Duluth, scheduled to appear Mon- day evening, November 19th, in the Memorial Chapel of Union College at 8 o'clock in a free public con- cert sponsored by tbe Colle!' e, has announced a program featurir:g Gothic and Renaissance music, both vocal and instrumental. The Rathskeller wlli remain open until 3:00a.m. tonight for the convenience of the prom- goers and all other late owls on campus. Their hours for to- -morrow will bei the same as usual, 4:30 to midnight. T. R. Mc!lwaine, Business Man- fleeing the fascists, and many such ager of the College, said that the refugees escaped from Le Chambon main barrier to an outdoor com- to Switzerland. Mr. Trocme him- mencement was the expense self was a hunted man for his Nothing definite was resolved but work in this resnect. sentiment appeared to favor a~ on- After the war, Trocme settled Such all but forgotten types of composition as the ministrel's song, the courtly basse dances, the gay vlllanelle, the Italian street song, known as the frottole, and the elaborate Burgundian and Nether- lands motets will be heard in their original forms. With ancient in- struments and manufactured· ones faithfully duplicating those of the periods represented, the Ensemble produces masterpieces of early music in thoroughly authentic fashion. November Sor the lat( Old react to the pro accustor you hav ThE cornmitt campus encamp: their m and pro Fr< Ra~ A sta spicable brought It is bel living ii an or~ Fourth tion, m• ster mE The • u:ndercc extorlil of the nuclem on pa3' lege l develoJ organil The now 1: among l.A efficieJ game lounge 2. A who ii WilliaJ tified, rren t at WE 3. T group great refusi been of W The dead!~ studeJ the fi fresh1 team whicl: fashic If thee be in be n:

1951 n tant reek, here mrs- vari- CME since an at- peace .er ex- ln the g can- dark- ent of ld Le Dave ~allege an ex- ve the era ted. rocme, by the e. He really ople of .lations ·ree of :r have tts ts tble of ota at r Mon- • in the College .ic con- £e, bas aturir.g music, Y'PCS Of 's song, ;he gay :t song, nd the Nether- in their lent in- ed· ones of the nsemble early Llther.tic November 16, 1'951 Page Three Union Prom Individualism Without Reigns Theme; Supreme Sons ·Of Union will be wildly celebrating a new event tonight as the Interfraternity Council presents the latest idea in proms-The Prom without a Theme. Old time prom trotters were not certain as to how to~-------~---------~--------­ react to this revolutionary announcement made earlier by the prom committee chairman. One conservative senio;, accustomed to the traditional prom said, \How the hell can you have a prom without a theme'? It just ain't normal.\ The general reaction has been favorable, however. The committee stated that there are so many individualists on campus that they couldn't think of any one theme that would enc?mpass everyone~ It was decided to let the boys make their own theme. As a matter of fact the theme mi()'ht and probably will, change every hour on the hour. \' ' Headquarters Frosh Class Racket Filled A startling and thoroughly de- spicable incident has just been brought before college authorities. It Is believed a group of Freshmen, living in West College, have formed an organization known as the Fourth Floor Protective Associa- tion, modeled on present day gang- ster methods. The or·ganization in a quiet and undercover method is succeding in extorting money from a large part of the frosh class. First formed by nucleus of young Union men intent on paying their way through col· lege by playing cards, it has developed into an efficient racket organizatioiL The syndicates activities have by now branched into many fields, among these being: 1. A group of young men who efficiently operate a steady card game with marked cards in the lounge. 2. A group of strong arm goons who in conjunction with a certain William North, otherwise uniden- tified. have been forcing the fresh- rren to eat their Saturday dinners at West College. 3. The central activity of the group however has been, to a great extent, protection. Freshmen refusing to pay their dues have been severely beaten with slices of West College toast. The Association is spreading its deadly influence to all branches of student life. A rumor has it that the fix was in on the R.P.I.-Union freshmen game. The entire Union team was bribed to throw the game which they did in convincing fashion. If the school does not act soon the entire moral life of Union will be in danger. An investigation must be rr:ade before it is too late. It is also worthy of note that this plan permits the girls to get in on selecting the theme. It has been pointed out that this could pos- sible add a rather interesting touch. Ml sorts of fascinating ideas 1 might come to light, becausP the female point of view is slightly 1 diff,erent from that of us males. At any rate, Buddy Morrow and his band, assisted by vocalists Jeanne McMannus and Frankie Lester, will begin serenading at 10:00 p.m. this evening in the gymnasium at the so-called Grid- iron Ball. Decorations will be aimed in the general direction of \football\ for lack of a better sug- gestion. This could conceivably be due to the amazing coincidence that the last football game of the year will be played on Alexander Field tomorrow at 2:00 p.m. Our worthy adversary in the forthcom- ing struggle will be Hamilton Col- lege, and it may be hoped that the prom decorations will spur the Union team on to greater heights. A surprisingly large turnout is expected at the prom as ticket sales picked up late this week. Aside from the prom and the foot- ball game there is no planned schedule of events. House parties are scheduled to start tomorrow evening and will continue until Christmas vacation. The Dean has added color to the festivities by announcing that any student who can remain entirely intoxicated from Saturday to Christmas will be officially excused from classes during that period. Because of their rather doubtful past reputa- tion, however, these could hardly be labeled as \planned events\. Fraternity houses will present anti-Halui'lton displays Saturd!cy morning. The I.F.C. will awaa-d a prize to the most viscious display. This prize will be awarded at half time of the football game, and the winning house is expected to play in the second half. Also, the prom committee has asked us to announce that, after Friday night, tickets for the prom can be purchased for $16.00. The committee is sorry that the price has to be so high, but the extra bookwork involved makes the move necessary. In addition to that, tickets for the 1971 prom will go on sale immediately, and the stu- dents are advised to get their money In early as a great rush is expected. They're Coming .- .. \::::\---~~ lkoiH•,..,- From Wellesley to Bryn Mawr; from Barnard to Smith; they're coming to the annual Union Fall Prom. The girls will help con- tribute ideas to the prom whose theme will change with the individual's mood. New Blind Dates Course Helps Clue in Freshm.en Union College has decided that for next year a new, com- pulsory course will be added to the Freshman Curricula; it being Blind Dates la. It will be followed by elective courses in Blind Dates 11 (Advanced Making Out) and Blind Dates 13 (Abnormal Datery). Display Order The following ·is the order in which the Prom Weekend dis- plays of the houses will be judged by the Committee. 1. Phi Sigma Delta 2. Sigma Chi 3. Theta Delta Chi (S.C.) 4. Kappa Alpha 5. Phi Sigma Kappa (N.C.) 6. Beta Eta Upsilon (N.C.) 7. Kappa Sigma 8. :Kiappa Nu 9. Deita Chi 10. Delta Phi 11. Phi Delta Thetn 12. Phi Gamma Delta 13. Beta Theta Pi 14. Chi Psi 15. Sigma Phi 16. Alpha Delta Phi 17. Psi Upsilon 18. Delta Upsilon The judges are Professors Bibber, Bradbury, and Stnn!ey and the judging will be between 11 and 12 on Saturday morning. The judges will begin with Phi Sigma Delta at n:oo a.m. and barring delays IRUd unforeseen cil\Cumstances complete their tour at Delta Upsilon. The com- mittee's decision will be an- nounced at ha'lf-time of the football game and the cup will be awarded ·at some future chapel program. This is national newspaper weel\. Be kind to the Con- cordiensis. ~ The new courses are being insti- tutJd by the college as a part of its orientation program ... They will be held under the authority of the Biology Depa.rtment ... Upper clac;s- men still bewildered after several years in Union will be allowed to take the elementary course if they wish to. The elementary course will deal mainly in types and techniques. It will introduce to the freshman such familiar Saturday sights as the All-American Out Girl, who can neither talk, dance or even walk. This type, often to be found on the streets of Schenectady, has been told by mother that all Union men are fine examples of American manhood . . . that is they are lecherous drunkards of a low moral type. If ensnared in their meshes at a party, the girl will act as cold and restrained as possible. She will invariably drink only orange soda On training for the football season, no doubt). There is also the disillusioned Miss America who has been brought up to believe that all col- lege men are tall, handsome ath- letes, with convertables and money to burn. At parties she will ap- pear rather introverted. A secondary part of the course will deal with blind date technique. It will endeavor to teach the fresh- man among other things the quick- est method of becoming crocked upon viewing his date. It is hoped that this course will aid fresh who find themselves badly in need of aid on many a Saturday night.

Page Four OJnurnt \\!ember Assodated Col- legiate Press and distri- butor of the Collegiate Dlge•t. :\'ational Adver- tising Representative: Na- tional Advertising Service. Inc., College Publisher\ Representatice. 420 ~'!acti­ son Ave., X. Y. r•. Puh- lishe<l every Friday of the ;;<•.hool year. Editorial Office,Washburn Ha.Ji, Union College . .PulJ- lication Offi<'e, The Ga- zette Press, 334 State St. Enterert in the Schenec- tady Past Office as Sec- ond Class Mail Matter, sul.H:;cription 1 Oc a COJJY; $3 year deli\'ered an-y- where in the Unite,! States. SE~i!O R BOARD DONALD K RCH\\'AltTZ '52 .......................... Editor-in-Chief :>!ARVIN J,, KOliN '53 .............................. :.1-lanaging l~ditor WILJ,AHD G. TAYLOR '5~ ........................... Associate Editor JOII!'I J. CASSlllY '53 ................................... News !~ditot· .TOH:--J 1'. KE:--::\'E.PY 'i•2 ........................ , .....•. Sports Editor :.\IONRC))o; SlLVE!UIAN '52 ............................ Feature I~rlitot· AJ,A:--J S. !•'OIDIA:\' '53 ........................... l'hotogra]lh:V Editor LEO Kt'J'I-:rtSCID'Ill\ '52 ........................... Business Managet· UEOHUE F'. HI•;ni:\<lTO); '52 ................... ~irculation ~tanager .lt\:'OOR BOARD :VIAHTI:\' B. GOIU10:\' ·~~ ................. Assi\tant :.1-Jal>e-Up E<litor ALFRE:D J,, UOLllUI•;H.tH;H '54 •.••. , ...•...•• As\istant Copy J~ditor HEHJlJo:IlT L. SPIJtA '54 ....................... Assistant Copy Etlitor lfHVIS S. BAHG '53 .......................... Assistant Sports Etlitor WILIAA:\1 l'. :I!Ofi!DIAN:--: •;;3 •••.•••.•.••• , •• AsRistant ~ports Editor ALFHEI> II. K!StHl:--J 'u3 ..•..•...••.•••....• Assistant Feature E!ditor HEa{BI•:RT L. HIJ,r,r·;R '52 ..................•....... Exchange !editor HOWARD BRODY '52 .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. . .. .. . .. .. . .. .. . F:xc•hange Editor tH;OHGE: J. WHFHI~L '53 ................ Assistant Business ~lanager HOJL\CI•: \'AX YOAST '52 ............ A\Hi5tant l'iroulation )Jianager UEI'OR'rEUS Kent Coryell. !lil'llard Heimann. .Jerome Klein, Lewis Klein !eliot I,oshak, :.Jartin l'ortnoy, Arthur Jto~enfeld, Alfred Hcott, llonal~l Him- mons, David Smith, Arthur Stockman. ('l:B R.EPOR'I'EltS Peter Adler. :O.Jarvin Boris, Arthur Feldman, Herbert Gu,.ton. .!.\Ia1·tiu Hauser, Ward Jones, Gary Katz, Hiohard Kraft, Daniel .).Janning, Ian MacDonald, Herbert Williams. Bl:SINESS S'l'AFF Jo8eph Allen, Robert Beck, Lawrence Greenberg, Robert Silvet·man CIRCULA'riON STAFF CUrtis Bates, J. Lowell Davis, Joe Marlin, David Brown, James Fitz- mauri~e. Richard Borst, Hobert Seydel. Letter from a Crackpot Dear Old Red Paster, ~---------------------------- Since I come from a long line of old red pasters myself, I thought that you would be interested in reading a report that has come to my attention that proves that a group of young men at a place called Union. are carrying on under an infamous code of ethics and morality. In order to prove my point it will be necessary to ex- amine the person who created the code that these men all claim to be brothers under. The report is as follows: SUBJECT; Minerva, also known in some parts as Capta, Ergane. Nike and Athene. It is not known at this tirre what name the subject uses in Chicago but it is rumored to be Madam. This investigation also was unable to discover whether this women was an Italian or a Greek. Her ligitamacy to say the least and to keep it in a gentle- man's language, is questionable. She is said to be the daughter of a non-college rran caiied Jupiter. Her mother's name is not known and it is believed that at the time of her birth her parents were not wed. In order to counteract this charge that she is an \unwanted child\ (ie. bastard) the subject has spread the story around that she leaped from her father's brain at birth completely mature and in a set of armor. This rumor has made it difficult to investigate the childhood of the subject since as note she had no childhood. But you may be sure that we did not let this stop our investigation. Sparing no expense we were able to manufacture a childhood for the subject. Because this childhood de- veloped into such an interesting story we have had it bound in purple and gold and are at present offering it for 98 cents under the title of \The Carnal Sins of the Roman Bath.\ Th subject is also believed to be an alcoholic. This reasoning is based onthe fact that in a contest held by a \mob\ calling theiX'selves \The Greek Gods'• she produced the gift that was judged to be the most useful to mortals. This gift was the olive. It is a proven fact that the only possible use for the olive is in a martini. Thus it is established that the subject pur- posely fostered drunkeness and rowdyness among the mortals. Lastly I feel that it should be pointed out that the subject has broken the Arr erican code of all codes. That is to say she \·as a \poor sport.'' In a weaving contest with a blushing young maiden called Arachne she got sore and smashed her opponents shuttle. This made the poor maiden feel such guilt and sharre that she went out and hung herself. The courts were not able to pin the rap on the subject because she de- stroyed the maidens body. The subject cut off the rraidens hair, her nose and ears and shrank her body until the maidens fingers cleaved to her sides and served as legs. To top it all off the sub- ject then turned the poor young maiden into a spider. So far this report has proven the subject, to be an alcoholic-mur- deren'-bastard. It is frightful to think that at the present time there are a group of young rren who claim to living under her laws. Please feel free to call on our ever alert group of accurate invest- igators if you need any help in cleaning out this spider's nest of infamy. Yours alertfully, SENATOR GEEFOWLER November 16, 1951 Communist Importation Liable for Deportation I found Fydor Razomovsky Pavlovich, the HELP student from Russia sitting quietly in the Restricted Area of the Physics building, absently doodling figures on a small piece of .pape1·. \Fydor I saitl, as· I went over~-------------------~- to introduce myself, \I'm from the think about the idea of Grants in Concordiensis. Would you mi'nd Aid?\ answering some questions of inter- \I'm glad you asked that. It rep- est to the student body?\ resents a typical Social Democratic \It would be a pleasure, Com- scheme to lull the people into fool- rade.'' said Fydor, thoughtlessly ish complacency. They are to be putting the piece of paper in his satisfied with such pitiful bribes. mouth and swa-llowing it. In the People's Democracies we \You are the HELP student from turn to the Soviet Union, our Russia, is that right?\ Mother and Protector.\ \Yes. That is so. I was born \Well what about student life at on the Great Lenin Collective near Union, say, freedom of speech?\ Leningrad.\ \Of course you are joking. Take \Fydor what do you ~!link of your weekly propaganda sheet, the student government at Union?\ OOncordizvestia, for example. It is \I do not understand it. I havf\ obviously an outlet for the most attended the noon indocrinations, pernicious form of philistine diti- including that of your People's ta.ntism. Again, pa1·t of the great Councll, but they mystify me. scheme to lull the peopLe into What is very apparent, howAVCl', foolish complacency. It is by such is that the body is in the hands of twaddle that they confuse the issue the beverage monopolists, the in question. I can only sniile at Rathskulnicovs. They are using their pitiful efforts.\ beeir as the opiate of the people.\ \But what about the speakers we \I see what you mean, Fydor. invite for the noon idoc ... I mean But what do you think of the tradi- Chapel Programs?\ tions of Union College?\ \You persist in your humor. \Again I am mystified. There is What are these, these 'speakers' if this \Terrace Wall\ and \Idol.\ I not the tools of the upper stratus do not understand the theology be- of petty-bourgeousie scoundrels hind them. Nor of the \Sacred who have been bribed by the capi- Stream\-I do not see its value. It talists-such as are the social im- is not even navigable. Undoubtedly perialists of all countries?\ this is just part of the great \I see. Fydor, what about sports scheme to delude the masses.\ at Union-have you been to any of \What about Sophomore-Frosh the football games?\ rivalry?\ \You mean the war games? It \Obviously it is merely an ex- is ridiculous to think that the capi- tension of the great class struggle talists can mask their plans for as predicted by Marx, Hegel, and world domination under the guise Fichte and directed by Joseph Vis- of such obviously predatory activi- sarionivich Stalin, Leader of Pro- ties.\ gressive Mankind.\ \And last Fydor, do you have \Hmmm. I see. And now, Fydor, any opinions of your professors?\ the college policies. What do you CENSORED For Your ·Information MONDAY-Daily Assembly, Speak- er, J. Ratherford Swainsworth, \In- fluence of Stained G'lass Windows on Nocturnal Habits of the ~ulus,\ MC, noon; Association for the Ad- vancement of Sewerage Engineer- ing, Symposium, \This Filthy World of Ours.'' C.E. 507, 3:0(} A.M. TUESDAY-Daily Assembly, Speaker, Clarence Tombs, Profes- sor of Psychology, \You and the Orgasm,\ MC, noon; Round table discussion by Civil Defense Com- mittee, \The Advisability of Co- educational Bomb Shelters,\ OC 4:30P.M. WEDNESDAY -Special Assembly, Speaker, Ebineezer Twinbottom, Union '72, \Chester Allan Arthur, Architect of Our Nation;'' MC noon; Concert, Society for the Resurrection of Obsolete Instru- ments, Abigail Whitecombe, Clavi- cord Soloist with Johnny Sczwich- sczy and his Polka Five, MC 8;00 P.M. THURSDAY -Daily Ass em b I y. Speaker, F. Hutcheson Morrow, \Who Is This God and What Does He Want?\ MC noon; Conference of Applied Sociology, Speaker, Ar- temus Klippinger Davies \Virginity and the Social Imperative,\ OC 8:00P.M. FRIDAY-Daily Assembly, Recital, Dr. E. A. <Car-bomb) Marshmal- low, MC noon; Ellis Hospital School of Nursing, Annual Fall \Pot-luck\ Dance, West College Boiler Room 8:30 P.M. SATURDAY-Varsity Footsie, Un- ion vs. Skidmore at Pete's Pizzeria 11 :00 P.M.; Emergency Meeting, Chvistian Association, 11:00 P.M., basement Silliman Hall. SUNDAY-Sunday Service, Rev. F. Hotchkiss Clearview \Whither Now, Bright-eyed College Student?\ MC 11:00 A.M.; COLLEGE LECTURE, \My Six Psychiatrists,\ by No. 1880479, Leavenworth '51, Mrs. Per- kin's Garden, 3:00P.M. According to Webster ... EVERY HOUSE HAS ONE- SUDS - a malt liquid better phrase used by fraternity rren to known as beer. describe the skeleton in their BILL KETZ-our Co-ordinator of closet. STUDENT ACTIVITIES to who.m CHOW DOWN-to partake of members of the campus have deti- protein, carbohydrates, and fat. cated many songs of inderarr.ent. November Lawrence Bill Delan Bill Conw Bill Tayla Hann Phil Beutl Dave Dul Bill Nell Dave Pal: Les Coucl Dick Bor Donnelly Redingtor Gerald R Anthony Roy Abel Bob Boll Henry 0 Bob Tig:t Gardner Horace '\ Bob Sey< Mitche~l Seydel . Peter Sc Arthur Marc Sl Stephen Martin Harvey Peter D Jay Gil Abe To] Ivan K~ Artie B1 Barrie ' Howie Bob LE Richard Leo narc Joseph J. H. r: Herb S Howie Dick R Reuben Marvin Bernie Ronald Fred I Bruce Charle James Don I Jerry Marsh Ken V John Don 1 Dick Walt James Waite Paul· Tom: Jame! Micha John Michs AI N Jerry Tom Bob. Char: Herb Bob Bob

1951 ctdent f the piece nts in It rep- Jcratic o fool- to be bribes. es we t, our life at ch?\ . Take et, the '· It is most e diti- ' great ~ into y such e issue riile at ers we [mean b.umor. >ers' if stratus lndrels e capi- ial im- sports any of !S? It e capi- ns for ' guise activi- 1 have ~ors?\ mbly, [arrow, .t Does ference er, Ar- .rginity ~,n OC ;tecital, :shmal- Cospital Ll Fall College ie, Un- 'izzeria [eeting, > P.M., Rev. F. erNow, ;?\ MC :TURE, Jy No. rs. Per- better :1atorof 'who.m ve deti- ur.ent. November 16, 1951 Page Five A Fella Needs a Girl PSI UPSILON Lawrence Sutter ......... Shirley Haswell .................. , Albary Bill Delaney ............ Mrs. W. P. Delaney . . . . . W. Hartford, Conn. Bill Conway . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Carol Corrigan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore· Bill Taylor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mig Hickey . . . . . . . . N. Hampton, Mass. Hans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Katherine Coctran . . . . . . . . . . . Albany State Phil Beuth .................. Betty Yost ............... Staten Island Dave DuBois ............ Barbara Trave: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Arkville Bill Neil ................... Fran Corbin .......... Ridgewood, N.J. Dave Palmer . . . . . . . . . . . . . Helen Powers ................. Oceanside Les Couch ................ Joan Dunham .................... Albany Dick BarEt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . St:e Swell . . . . . . . . . . . . . Oneonta State Donnelly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Maggie Buckley . . . . . . . . . . . Saranac Lake Redington . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dorothy Redington . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady Gerald Richards .......... Nancy Hillman .................... Elmira Anthony Lang ............ Maggie Brewer ................. Skidrrore Roy Abell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pegf y Davis ..................... Albany Bob Bohrer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pat Walsh ............. Oneonta State Henry Coors . . . . . . . . . . . . Shirley Smith . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady Bob Tighe ............... \Jackie\ Shapiro . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Gardner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Carolyn Davidson . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady Horace Van Voast ......... Betty Fraser .................. Skidmore Bob Seyd.:Jl . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mary Haswell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Albany Mitche~l .................... Mrs. Mitchell ............. Bostor, Mass. Seydel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mrs. Seydel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Fredonia KAPPA NU Peter Schlein .............. Car.dy Berg .................. Skidmore Arthur Cohen ............ Lynn Sunshine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alfred Marc Shoo be . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sheila Goldner . . . . . . . . . . . . . White Plains Stephen Louis ............ Lois Schwartz ........... New York City Martin Portnoy .......... Elaine Mandell ........... New York City Harvey Blass . . . . . . . . . . . . Claire Franzblau . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Queens Peter Dreyfuss ............ Pat Gajewski . . . . . . . . . . . U. of Rochester Jay Gilbert .............. Norma Ritter .......... New York City Abe Topchik ............... Joan Fischer ............... Russell Sage Ivan Kaminow . . . . . . . . . . . . . Flo Fischer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Artie Beller . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rita Frommer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cedarhurst Barrie Traub .............. Margie Klein . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Wellesley Howie Fox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Roxanne Brody . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Bob Lea .................. Lola Stendig ..................... N.Y.U. Richard Pollen ............. Janet Dorf . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Leonard Schwartz . . . . . . . Leila Berkowitz . . . . . . . . . . . . . Russell Sage Joseph Zuckerman ....... Jeanne Cohen ......... Brooklyn College J. H. DePuyt . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sue Prokovieff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Herb Spira . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Harriet Gottlieb . . . . . . . . . . . . . Forest Hills Howie Kloth . . . . . . . . . . . . Signe Teitelbaum . . . . . . Univ. of Vermont Dick Relkin .............. Sandra Weber ................. Skidmore Reuben Schwartz .......... Joan Shifter.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Marvin Boris . . . . . . . . . . . Marylyn Good:nan . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady Bernie Jereski . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sue Davis ....................... Srrith Ronald Nackman ....... Marcia L. Jacobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brooldyn Fred Devan . . . . . . . . . . . . Bobbie Fiedelholtz . . . . . . . . . . . Russell Sa~·e DELTA PHI Bruce Campbell . . . . . . . . . . Helen Murphy . . . . . . . . . . Albany Hospital Charles Carpenter . . . . . . . . Millie Turnbull . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Plattsburg James Salerno .............. Donna Lance ....................... Troy Don Loughry .............. Ann McAdow . . . . . . . . Middlebury College Jerry O'Loughlin . . . . . . . . Alice McDonald . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Marshall Severance ...... Ann Tomlinsor . . . . . . Mt. Holyoke College Ken Van Wagner .......... Ann Thobei .................. Ski(l:nore John Maisel ............... Janet Scarth ..... Pottsdam State T'chers Don Horton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ozzie Osborn . . . . . . . . Connecticut College Dick Conklin . . . . . . . . . . . . . Astrid Mattson . . . . . . . . . . . . Boston, Mass. Walt Townser.d ........... Mrs. Townsend . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rochester James Karl . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Florence Hall .......... Albany Hospital Walter Hanson. . . . . . . . . . . Lois Ann Hanson . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady Paul Whitman .......... Mary Jo Boulware .................... Troy Tom Hayes . . . . . . . . . . . . . Shirley Andreassen ..•. , , . . . . . . . . Lexington James Bollinger ........... Virginia Roll ....................... Troy Michael Meyer . . . . . . . . . . . Barbara Jones . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Claverck John La Barge ........ Dorothy Ann Stevens ........... Ballston Spa Michael Kahn ........... Ingrid Tiegland .......... New Yorlt City CHI PSI AI Nolan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Gloria Cooley ......... , .. Northport, L.I. Jerry Heinzman ........... Patricia Lay ............. Belleville, N.J. Tom Koenig . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pat Nestle ...... Union School of Nurs'g Bob Jennings ............. Janet Kachuba .... Union School of Nurs'g Charles Suter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sonia Melius . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cornell Herb Hufnagel . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pat Tobin . . . . . . . . . . . . . Baltimore, Md. Bob Godburn ............ Cor.nie Coleman ... Towson T'ch'rs Col. Md. Bob Hass .................. Liz Crabtree ....... Col. of New Rochelle KAPPA ALPHA Dave Weichert .............. Jan Engler . , ....... Connecticut College Paul Chrystal . . . . . . . . . . . . Irene Morini ...................... Albany Dick Nemeth ............. Cathy Ruskay .......... Fairfield, Conn. George Exner .. . . . . . . . . . . . Joanna Srr. ith ......... Wheelock College Fred Linn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Virgin Craw . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady John Manners . , ........... Peg Johnson ........... New York City Walt Wallace ............. Clair Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ticonderoga Edward Exner ....... , Mrs. Edward B. Exner ......... , . . . . . . . Albany Jon Barber ............. Barbara Beckwith ...... Plattsburgh State Joel Coffin ............... Clarice Shetter . . . . . . . . Plattsburgh State . Dan Manning .......... Marf.uerite McDonald ......... , . . . . . . Albany Harry MiUer ............. Jerry Boswell . . . . . . . . . . . . . Russell Sage Don Mokski . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Carole Zajac . . . . . . . . Marymount College Dick Nelson ........... Mrs. Richard Nelson . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady Stewart Stephens . . . . . . . . . Andrea Griffin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Pete Weston ............... Edith More ............. Arkansas A&M Charles Simmons . . . . . . Mrs. C. D. Simmons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ithaca Bill Graham ............. , . Beverly Kle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nassau John Shade . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Jarvis . . . . . . . . . . . . . Russell Sage Don Simmons . . . . . . . . . . . Connie Chrystal .... , .............. Albany Woody Hubbell . . . . . . . . . . . Carol Millard .............. Russell Sage KAPPA SIGMA Jerry Hanshuc . . . . . . . . . . . Rae Dionne . . . . . . . . . . . . Keuka College Bill Ketchum ........... Joan Youn£•blood .............. Middletown Art Rir. aldi ............. Bernadette Shutt ... Plattsb'gh St. Teachers Nonr.an Scull ............ Susan Ketchum . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady James Groff .............. Joyce Martin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady Thomas Clifford . . . . . . . . Margarette Retter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Albany Robert Woodworth . . ...... Lois Tewell . . . . . . . . Endicott Jr. College John Kamenitsky ....... Lu-Ann Livingood .. Albany State Teachers Leigh Benner . . . . . . . . . . . . . Meredith Stolz . . . . . . . . Pembroke College Robert Laudise .......... ·. Connie Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cornell Tex Strout . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Laura Sootin . . . . . . . . . . . . . Smith College Mike Rabasca ............ Martha Hosier . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . New York J. K. Schwartz ......... Jeanne McDermott .... Union U. of Nursing Brian Kilpatrick . . . . . . . . . Helen Erckman . . . . . . . . . . . . Ellis Hospital Dick Gebhardt . . . . . . . . . . Mary-Jane Dewey .. Albany State Teachers Will Abel ................ , . Nancy May ..................... Albany Tom McCabe ............... Kay Larkin ........................ Troy John Duffy ............... Joan Lampert .......... St. Clare's Hosp. Robert May . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rosemary May ........... Pittsfield, Mass. Jack R. Waldron ........ Connie Hutchins . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady DELTA UPSILON Rhein Vogel . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . Gloria Stay . . . . . . .. .. .. . . . Schenectady Bob Munro . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Marlen.e Drexler . . . . . . . . . . Valley Stream Don Zeng•er . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ann Reardon . . . . . . . . . . . . Albany State Jack Thomas . . . . . . . . . . . . Sheila Ferguson . . . . . . . . Rockville Center Frank Morgan . . . . . . . . . . . Irene Beardall . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brooklyn Bill Bloomfield . . . . . . . . . . . Eleanor Paley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Watervliet Art Casey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Peggy Heckman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Terry Fish . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Marilyn Winkler . . . . . . . Plattsburgh State Bob Atwell ............... Jane Ferguson .......... Rockville Center Dale Christie . . . . . . . . . . . . . Elaine Rogers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bay Shore Chet Blakelock . . . . . . . . . . . Marilyn Morey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady Dick Miller ............... Jeanne Valente . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Watervliet BETA ETA UPSILON John Carriere ......... Mary Marg·aret Sweeney ........ Fairhaven, Vt. Lynn DeFreest . . . . . . . . . . . Helen Cashman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . St. Rose Judson Escalante . . . . . . . . Beverly Hayden . , , . . . . . . . . . . schenectady Stephen Fink . . . . . . . . . . . . . Elaine Swire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Scotia Vincent Guerra . . . . . . . . . . . . Marilyn Stoll . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectac1y Chick Josephson ........ Skip Dennerstein . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Jack Judson .......... Dolores Montalbano .......... Albany State Marvin Kohn ............ Sondra Freesman ...... Cliffside Park, N.J. Melvin Shiffman . . . . . . . . . • Lynn Baum . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore John Sigsby .............. Ruth Winchell .............. Lake Placid William Stoll ............... Ann Eldridge . . . . . . . . . . . Child's Hospital Don Harvey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Edith Barbour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore AI Leszczynski . . . . . . . . . . . . Mary Schepach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . St. Rose Ray Fabian ............. Jean Mannezzera ................. St. Rose INDEPENDENTS Don Guertin . . . • . . . . . . . . Beverly Bingham . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . St. Rose Armancl Nirdlinger ...... Nancy Kennedy ..... Daytona Beach, Fla. Pat Laltshminarsu . . . . . . Rosemarie Hawer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Edgar Chandler .......... Hazel Benware ....... Plattsburg State T. i '·

Page Six November 16, 1951 It's So Nice To Have SIGMA PHI PHI GAMMA DELTA Don Larson ............ Mary Ann Seymour . . . . Marymount College Bob Morgan . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dorothy Bush ................ Amsterdam Gordon Kidd ........... Christir.e Scharier ..... Bryn MaVIr College Hugh Collins .............. Marie Elder .................. Bainbridge Garrett Murphy ........... Cathie Cahill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Russell Sage Bill Akitt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ba;rl::ara Hale . . South Attleboro, Mass. Bill Brandow . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeanne Haste ..... Cazenovia Jr. College Dick Shaffer . . . . . . . . . . . . Janice Bantleon ................. Rochester Bob Dorse ................ Shirley Clark . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Skidmore Fred Winslow . . . . . . . . . . . . . Diane Davis . . . . . . . . . Mount Holyoke Stig Gustafsson ............ Peggy Tait . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Len Staslrelunas . . . . . . . Nancy Pelletreay ............... New York Hal Olsen ................ Jean Sweeney ...... Marymount College Malcolm G. Thorcas ...... Caryl Koert ........ Southern Methodist Fritz Reindel ........... Helen Jean Miller ... West Harford College Jaclr Ma~Dougal ...... Jeannette Fritsche! .............. New York Boge Hopkins . . . . . . . . . . . . \M.A.\ A<l.1ms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . N.Y.C. The Deacon .............. Bobb:e Gettens ......... r\eominster Iyiass. Mike Rumpf ............. Barbara Krase ................ Media, Fa. Bob Kline .............. Lorraine Mac Rae ............. Schenectady John Franke ............. Marjorie Price .... Oneonta State Teachers Kent Coryell . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mary Salamcne ............ Juarez, Mexico Ross Sawtelle ............ Edyth Koprran ................. Skidmore Robert Gerkin ............ Janet Campbell .......... New Paltz State Rass Baller .............. Joan Gragmani ................ Skidmore The Great Crus·ade J. Vickers ................ Nancy Brown .................... N.Y.C. Bob Engles ............. Mal'ion Waterfield .............. Niskayuna AI Hart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Barbara Bradt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Niskayuna A. Frederick . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rusty Rusco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Dave Knuffin .............. Jan Glasier . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore John Rces .............. Harriet Lowry .................... Vassar Tom Angell ............. Ann McCorquodale . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady Harry Gehman . . . . . . . ... Georgie Thayer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Tom Atherton ............. Betty Newell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Mike Clarke ................ Joan Pegg ....................... Smith Dave Pl:ilip . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alicia Craif' ..................... Vassar PHI DELTA THETA Bill Fulton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jerry Hunt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Lou Hoornbcek ......... Janice Bueltmahn . . . . . . . . . . Columbia Buck Wittner . . . . . . . . . . . . Bobby Benson . . . . . . . . Albany State R. Forsyth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Wilson . . Potsdam Stat<> I Ron Northrup . . Jean Watkins . . . . . . . . . Correll David Lent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joan Cox .................... St. Rose Frank Campione . . . . . . . . Judy Hir ey . :. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . St. Rose Mike Wilson . . . . . . . Alice Miles . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Bus Burns . . . . . . . . . . Iris Carlson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jamestown Lennie Klinf berg . . . . . . . . . Lois Carlson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jamestown j Jack Walsh . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joan Du Brule ............... St. Josephs I Elwyn Harp .............. Nancy Elsbree .......... New Paltz S. T. Ross SaddlemirP . . . . . . . . . Evelyn Gaige . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schoharie Ken Johnson ............. Nancy Feather . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Watervliet Pa:H.~- Lon~ ............... Janice McHugh . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Vassar Sam Armstrong . . . . . . . . . . Gerry Butash . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Marvin Zepf . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tony Dailey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Bill Snyder . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joan Allen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Albany Paul Woods . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joan Sanok . . . . . . . . . Montclair State T. Jim McGrath . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jane Havey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Fred Richartz . . . . . . . . . . . . . Diane Smith . . . . . . . . . Univ. of Vermont Buzz Case . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Beth Emery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . St. Rose John Trotter ............... Ann Nulty ...................... Albany George Batkiewicz ..... Eleanore M. Leahy . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady i\~-·--------------------. ' ' I I I • : : ·• Famous Chinese and American Foods LUM FUNG Restaurant : BEST LIQUORS ~ AND COCKTAILS t I I 135 Broadway Phone 6-9595l t I '----------------~~~---\ GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall X-RAY FITTING 245 State St.-8ince 1895 LUIGI'S RESTAURANT Specializing ln Italian-American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schen. 6-9744 Enjoy o.ur Sizzlin9 Steaks and Chops L. G. BALFOUR 00. Fraternity Jewelers BADGES- RINGS- FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY- PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or call CARL SORENSEN 3() Murray Ave. Waterford, N.'Y. PHONE TROY-ADAMS 8-2523 Full of vim and vigor, the party goers will make their mass exodus to Alexander Field to watch unruffled Union meet deter- mined Hamilton. ~---------------------------~ I I :DISTINCTIVE MEN'S WEAR: I I I I I I I I : 167 Jay Street Schenectady, N. Y. I I '-------------------------~-~ GAZETTE PRESS Printers FERRO'S RESTAURANT Mr. and Mrs. George Ferro, Proprietors I I 15 Barrett St. PRIVATE ROOM FOR PARTIES Specializing in Italian-American Food PHONE 6a9554 Noveml Alan B Nathan Irwin : Dan. S F. Still Gerald Gene ~ Arthur Chuck AI F01 George Jerry · Jordan Mart Bob B Bob E Lew l' Dan' Bob 1 Marty Jay C Dave Jerry Bill l' Geral< Art S Alvin HowiE Ben Jame Rona Dick Arne Thorr Rich1 A nth Alfre Don Chri! Char Robe Dick B. B John Fred Spen Bill Vest: Bob DaV< r - - - - - - - ill

' 1951 tei•dam 1btidee Ma;s, chester [olyoke r Yotk thodist · York ¥ass. 1ectady Mexico mass Jeter- ---:. I l R I I I lC. : I • Y. I I \\'--' - November 16, 1951 Page Seven A Girl Around the House PHI SIGMA DELTA I PHI SIGMA KAPPA Alan Rosenfeld . . . . . . . . . . . Bonnie Simon ......... Wheelock College Frederick Hawkins Phyllis Bullard . . . Flattsburg State Nathan Zutty .............. Carole Kahn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Douglas Hart . . . . . . . . . . . . . Janice Fisher . . . Albany Hospital Irwin Barg .................. Joan Taxin ........... Simmons College George Rateau ............ Ellen Harper ........... A~b::1ny Hospital Dan Siesel ................ Pat Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Slddmore Tip Tower ................. Jure Fresen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidrrore F. Stuart Kantor ........... Neisa King ......... Bennington College John Moses ................ Elsie Myer ........... \'lnt-c\vli~t. N.Y. Gerald Geismar ............ Noor:ie Davis ........ Benningttm College William Bianchi ........... :Y.J:arth'l. Ring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Gene Schwartzman . . . . . . . Nancy Sulktn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Bob Marcus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pat Klein . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . S~:irtrrorc Arthur Fink ............... .Sue Solomon ...... Centenary J-r. College Dave Martin . . .. . . . . . . . . Patricia Roberts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Troy Chuck Kanzer ............ Fern Friedman ........... Hunter College John O'Grady .......... Mrs. John O'Gra 1.· . . • . . . . . . . . S~henectady AI Forman ............... Lois Greenwald .................... N.Y.U. HoVIard Miller ........... Bernice F.:uccl . . . . ........... Meco, N.Y. George Wrubel ........... Barbara Sand ......... Sirrmons College Sam Mastr:anni . . . . . . . . . . Jean Merrl! . . . . . Smrar:tan Hospital Jerry Klein ............... Linda Breskin ................. Skidmore Tom Baker .............. Joanne Brown ............. Skidmore Jordan Greefield ...... Dorothy Spanierman . . . . . . . . William Smith Jim Kenworthy . . . . . . . . . . Ethel Binne:· . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Mart Gordon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Zina Sirota . . . . . . . . . . Brooklyn College Bob Richter ............ Gladys Liberman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . C.C.N.Y. Bob Hiller . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Janice Feld ........ Vermont Uriversity Lew Klein ................. Debby Bauer . . . . . . . Kuttztown Teache1·s Watchful Wat\tt\nu Dan Weir.er ............ , .... Pat Avis ................ Russell Sage · · · · · ~ Bob Love .............. , . . . Clair Weiss . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Lawrence Marty Schulman .......... Glo1·ia Levine .............. Russell Sage Jay Cohn ................. Syma Cheris . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . N.Y.U. Dave Blum ............... Sabra Dubinett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady Jert•y Gartner ............. Pat Streicher . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ski<l nore Bill Kessler . . . . . . . . . . . . . Myrna Edelman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Gerald Shapiro ............ Jean Branks ................... Syracuse Art Stockman ............ Jean Rodnesky ....... Vermont University Alvin Wolfson . . . . . . . . . . . . . Judy Lasser . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Howie Modlin ........... Neysa Rosenthal ................ Skidmore Ben Sadock ............... Gail Gifford .............. Jamaica, L.I. ALPHA DELTA PH I James Har nan . . . . . . . . Patricia Schippers . . . .......... S~henectady Ronald Jacobs ........... Natalie Hastings ... :Jtica Memorial Hospital Dick Genthner ............ Pat Gardner ............... Albany State Arne Ellernets .............. lnga Pajur .............. New York City Thomas Odell ............. Betsy Clark ................... Skidmore Richard Munro ............ Gloria Sweet ..................... Buffalo Anthony DeBello ....... Carolyn Blanchette ................... Oneida Alfred Scott . . . . . . . . . . . . Barbara Mossberg ............. Russell Sag-e Don Smithcman .......... Doris Truesdell ............. Newark, N. J. Christ Muhlert ........... Nancy Maloney ..... Newton Center, Mass. Charles Herrr:an ......... Virginia Herman .............. Schenectady Robert Shorter . . . . . . . . . . Marilyn Morgan ...................... Ellis Dick Donohoe ............. Joan Shirley ...................... Albany B. B. Thelin .............. Nancy Gibbons ............... Russell Sage John Boardman . . . . . . . . . . Pat Sweeney ............... Albany State Fred J. Davies ........... Joanne Hastings ........... New York City Spencer Warnick ....... Alice Adriaar.se ............ Madison, N. J. Bill Grenzebach . . . . . . . . . . Ann Jacques . . . . . .......... Schenecta< If Vesty ... , .................. Peg Sanders ....................... Scotia Bob Cler.dinningo ........... Ann Raynor .................... Skidmore Dave Williams ............. Alice Foudy ...................... Albany SAVE 15% ON FOOD COSTS SAVE 15% NOTT RESTAURANT AND BAR For Quick Take-out Orders Call Sch.-6-9766 Raw, Steamed Clams \Meet and Eat at EDDIE'S\ 547 Not+ St., opposite Green Gate Schenectady, N. Y. MEAL TICKETS-$5.75 for $5.00 Flowers DISTINCTIVE CORSAGES Boutonniere Included With All Orders F R E E DELIVERY The crowd on their feet singing \We've Traveled Down the Mohawk Trail\ to salute another touchdown in preparation for a big songfest tomorrow. GUERRA•s PHARMACY • Fountain Prescriptions Sundries 600 Union St., Cor. Barrett St. For Car Troubles See a Union Man Ask the Boys Who Trade Here William H. Plath Auto Service 601 UNION STREET • W atc:hes, Jewelry Clocks Repaired e Engraving, too! Jay Jewlery Co.

Page Eight November 16, 1951 There's Nothing Like a Dame Long Road Home The tried and true Union rooters trek homeward after watching the Dutchmen score still another victory. THETA DELTA CHI Robert Morgan . . . . . . . . . . Delores Engel ......... Russe:J Sage George Harrold ............. Lois Avery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady Keith Smith . . . . . . . . . . . . . Emily Whitlock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sliidmore I Ted Klotz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Barbara Lyons . . . . . . . . . . . Ellis Hospital Keith Hitchins . . . . . . . . . . . . Corin Friss .... , . . . . . . . St. Agnes SIGMA CHI Evie Kamke . . . . . . Albany State I Reub!'n John~on . Robert Hockenbury Richard Clary Frank Kiwis RobPrt Maher . . . . . Bernice Cehowsld . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Watervliet Meryl Cht'ster . . . . Albany State . . . . . Barbara Wallact' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore DiE'k Rapacz Ha!TiPt Griswold Osweao Stat<> .. On.o•on°(,n S(,o(o I Mnry Annp Srott ,. ,. c Don Hoskin,_; Rarhara Har-ringto\ Syracust> T..rry Goff Jot:n Korn William VollmPr Roger Moxham Char!t•s Fink Herb Bnk<'r Pet<>r Mund Roxanna San East GrPenbush 1 Joan Finn . . . . . . . . . Cohoes 1 Cynthia Da•·ie>' Skidmore College 1 Corinr.o· Vait'nti ......... Albany State 1 Susanna Siegrist Uppt•r Montclair, Th<'lma Dicker . . . . Poughke<'ps~e I Lynn Miscedra . . . Poughkeep~re 1 Donna J<>an Bov<'l' ....... Ellis Hospital Dana Hanford Gerald Foster ... Jean Parish .......... Oswe?o Stat<' Kurt Pohl AnnerrariP Foen<ter Vassar CollPgP . --- .. ---.;.-_-;.... .. ---I!-~-.~--=·=-=-==-==========~ Serving Union's Men 1 GREETING cARDs For years For All Occasions See your agent on Camp11s ACE UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-5676 Stationery Store Get Your Imprinted Christmas Cards Early!! \Finest Selection Anywhere\ 24-Hour Photo Service 114 State St. near Ferry '-------------- 177 Jay Street Near State St. 122 Stop By - Make Your Own Sundae or Banana Split Attention Hous·e Stewards!! For Economical Desserts-1f2 Gal. Pkgs. All Flavors-$1.00 Creamy Free Delivery Nott Terrace Double Dip Frosts - 30c on Orders for I Gal. or More One Block From Campus BETA THETA PI Tony Prindle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lois Porter , .............. Albany State Joe Barone . . . . . . . . . . . Grace Fuggazzotto .............. Johnstown Dick Fifoot ...... , ........ Karen Tappen ......... Centenary College Lou Muller . . . . . . . . . . . . Mary Jane Radcliff ...... Maplewood, N. J. Chuck Turner . . . . . . . . . . Betty Jane Letts .................... Scotia Bob McElroy ............. Mary Runyon ............ Sar~·ent College Carl Larson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Marcie Stevie . . . . . . . . . . . . . Albany State Pete Lewis . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rachael Jer..kins ............ Smith College Fred Rapant ........... Anna Mae Robert ............. Schenectady Bill Meehan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Anne Casey ........................ Troy Dave Weart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Kay Owens , ...... , ......... , Watervliet Gus Umbsen , ............. , Ann Ketz ........... , .... -Schenectady Mickey Silber .............. Ilene Selman ... , ...... , .Jersey City, N. J, DELTA CHI Hugh McKelvey ........... , Pat Hogan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Scher. ectady Richard Royce ............. Barbara Cox .............. Russell Sage George Mills . . . . . . . . . . . . . Margory Bowers .............. , . Skidmore Robert Cassidy .......... Joyce Eisenhardt ........... _ Pourhkeepsie Charles Mills . . . . . . . . . . . . Eleanore Kunder .......... _ . . . . . . . . Bronx Norman Jankowski . . . . . . Lorraine Getman . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady Jack Stuck ................ Joyce Palmer .................... Wolcott Edward Knight ........... Ruth Goodrich .......... Stoneham, Mass. Larrence Porcelli ....... , . Joan LaFrenier .............. Russell Sage Richard Breault ........... :!\!Iarlene Weh ............... Russell Sage Robert Rottmann ....... , . Betty Erickson ..... , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Scotia Ellsworth Cook . . . . . . . ..... Pat Horan . . . ..... , ... Russell Sage William Graves , . . . . . . . . . . . Mary Fisher . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Skidmore Mel Shira .................. Arlene Hogan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady John Hammond ......... Louise Mastrian . . . . . . . . . . . . . Schenectady Hugh Plumme!· ............ Nancy Friday ............... Russell Sage Stanley Newins ............. Joan Gage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Scotia AT M. B. Graubarts & Sons Especially diamond solitaires for brides- to-be must be assuredly fine in color, in cutting, in brilliancy Your pleaseure in selecting the aU-important solitaire and the equally meaningful wedding ring is enhanced by the variety of our selections ~\\\\' fl~O~ {)\\\\\\j JAY s{)lWllUS \SERVING SCHENECTADY FOR 3 GENERATIONS\ Noveml The fo defined who ar1 for the A Ul END-r nefariol from F the co· stay in where ; forced despite had an: walk a songs ; CHA: ried p1 to hear see no the UJ are no presen· ence clearin descen phrase thing BR(] the wi was in the a1 be COil AB LE'I this is greet trans!: drunk TO above· with' their artifi< M 8 7 \\\\\\

1951 J. State Troy N.J. Sage Sage Sage Sage more Sage November 16, 1·95 I Page Nine The Last Word .. For Novices The following ter.n: s are properly LET'S GO IN HERE AND defined to aid those young women DANCE-if there is no music who are on our dear old campus coming out of the room you'll find for the first time. out what he mea;ns soon encugh. A UNION COLLEGE WEEii- RATHSiiELLER - the student END-a marathon of various and \snack bar\ v;hich sells beeF at nefarious activities v;hich lasts· very reasonable prices-P.S. Their from Friday until Sunday. Often .lettuce is limp. the contestants are \forced\ to TO POOP OUT-to retire from stay in dark, smoked filled rooms the festivities at the point where where a torturous golden liquid is forced down their throats. Then despite the fact that they have riot had any sleep they are expected to walk around the campus shouting songs at the top of their lungs. CHAPERONES-preferably rr ar- ried perscnnel who are expected to hear no evil, speak no evil and see no evil-sorr.etimes they match the upholstery so v;el! that you are not even aware that they are present-usually make their pres- ence known by either a loud clearing of their throats in a con- descending rranner cr by the phrase \Well! I never saw any- thing like this before.\ BROAD-a term used to define the width of an article <this item was inserted by the censor because the author's definition seemed to be confused). A BEAST-never mind. LET'S GO HAVE A DRINii- this is a phrase that Skidmore girls greet their dates with - freely transfated it rreans lets go get drunk. TO TIE ON A LOAD - (see above) - also descriptive of girls with \modest\ figures who fill out their strapless evening dresses artifically. ,-----------------------, t BEAT HOBART l t • i For a Successful Weekend J l PHIL ~ ! ENGLEHARDT'S : : i LIQUOR STORE i I t 519 Union St. Pbon4' 3-3110 I • • I A Full Supply of I I LIQUORS and WINES I ~ I ~----------------------~ We Need Your Head To Run Our Business!! Model Barber Shop Herman Farone, Prop. 435 Liberty Street Across from Gallo's they are just reaching their clirr ax. SORORITY GIRLS- you saw FRATERNITY MEN- a group the movie, .didn't you? of rich, carefree, discriminating, JACKSONS GARDEN - never agnostic, rr:oronic drunks - but mind its locked. never use the term frat men. MRS. PERiiiNS' GARDEN - INDEPENDENTS-a group of never rr.ind its too p\ublic. shinning faced young men, stu die us, THE PASTURE~never mind it loyalful, ldnd, cleanly, curtious, is now a parking lot. sober, intelligent, non-drinkers but · BUTY DATE-never. never use the term neutrals. A NURSE~dcn't mind. ·: .. ·:: •' '• ·/ '':+ ::::}·:§} THE MEETING'S UPSTAIRS FRATERNITIES SAVE 100/o on Leading Brands; of WALLPAPER HARDWARE PAINTS & VARNISHES HOUSEWARES What happens to a high-flying enemy bomber when it meets the newest anti-aircraft guided missile shouldn't happen to a low-flying duck. Radar \eyes\ and electronic \brains\ make sure the meeting takes place. They guide the pilotless missile to within lethal range of the plane, then explode it. This teaming of intricate trackmg and com- puting devices was made possible by teaming of another sort. The electronic control system was developed for Army Ordnance by the Bell Telephone Laboratories and the Western Elec· tric Company, close-working research and manufacturing units of the Bell System. It's just one of the many important military projects being entrusted to the Bell System. CAPITOL PAINT & HARDWARE CO. 726 State St •• Ph. 4·8393 BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM

Page Ten By John Kl'nnPdy Trophy Suggested For Grid Rivalry Director of Athletics J. Harold Wittner announced this week the receipt of a letter from the Block H Society of Hamilton College that would add some incentive to tl:e annual Union-Hamilton footba.ll game. The plan would call for the var- sity lettPr societi!'s Of both schools I to co-sponson some sort of trophy Football at Union ends this week- that would be retained by the win- t'nd at Union with the renewal of ning school for the corning year. the annual Union-Hamilton rivalry. This is similar to the littlP brown The Hamilton game has always jjug and other symbols of rivalry been the big one on the Dutch- b~>tween Old rivals. men's schedule in former years The letter proposed that the let- and the proposition from the Block terman's society of the victorious I \H\ Society see~s to comP at a , school take cat''.' o.f the necessary 1 very opportune timP. engraving or pamttr g, such as the, The series dates back to 1890 and case may be. Hamilton's director : the Garnets have won 25 while of atrletics has even donated a I dropping 20. Such an evenly football, to be painted brown, I matched rivalry is noe that should which could serve as a suitable : be Pncouraged, and· the presenta-1 trophy. ti on of an annual trophy seems i John Kennedy, head of the Ebck like an excellent sugE estion for 1 u SociPty .said that the organiza- this purpose. ti on would c (scuss the proposal at Hamiltor has always been a bet- I its next meeting, and ?eliPved that ter rival than our neighbors from I the r_natte~ would receive fa\·orablc Troy, where the little Dutch shoes I constdcratwn. have not provided too much of an a--- incentive for keep competition. The Continentals, on the other hanc I, J t } N t are from a liberal arts school that n ramura 0 es has plenty of spirit, and they al- ways give Union a great game even Ir.tramural athletics director Ar- when comparative records would thur Lawrence has posted the win- show them to be hopelessly out- ter schedules for intramural vol- classed, especially when we play at ley ball and basketball. Mr. I aw- Ciinton. There is always some- renee wants all team managers to thing about the Union game that consult the schedules immediately spurs them on to their best sea- because games begin on the Mon- sonal performance, day that we return from the In the light of such a record I Thanksgiving recess. think that we would be very wise Delta. Upsilon, last ye~r·s volley- in concentrating on our rivalry ball wmner should . agam have. a with the Continentals because it strong team, but Will sorely mtss has always smacked of a healthier l~~ky Tir_n Shea, while strong oppo- aroma, ard has been characterized s1bon Will corre from the Alpha by a better spirit than the atmos-, Delts and Phi Delts. phere that prevails at any of the In basketba]] the Phi Delts and Union-RPI outings. Phi Gams, along with a neutral November 16, 1951 Block U and City Alumni Inaugurate Annual Dinner ---------------0 The first annual Block U So- Picturl'd abovt\ is thl' toast- master for the first annual Block-U\A'lumni ba n que t in one of his typical poses. As one can see, he has been prac- ticing toasts and is now medi- tating. ciety-Schenectady Alumni Associ- ation banquet will be held at the Van Curler Hotel on Monday, De- cember 3 . .As previously announced, Harry Markson of the Interna- tional Boxing Club will be the main speaker and Frederick Bronner of the Ur.ion history department will be toast master. Tickets will be available for all members of the student body and will be sold for $2.50. The admin- istration has announced that West College meal tickets will be allowed a value of 75 cents forward on the purchase price after being punched at the dining hall. This is the same procedure that was followed 1 by fraternities during freshman I rushing. The dinner committee expects to have an attendance of some 300 1 athletes, students anct alumni, and believes the occasion to be a great event in the betering of under- graduate-alumni relations. Other speakers will include brief words from the various coaches and director of athletics, J. Harold 1 Wittner. Everything in Music Pianos - Organs Television-Radio Combinations Records - Sheet Music - Phonographs ROBERTS PIANO COMPANY 203 STATE STREET Phone 2-2493 Open Thursday Until 9 P. M. H~a~~~~ne~~:t~~~m~~o~f~g~i~a~n~t~s~a~r~e~fu~v~o~r~e~d~·===~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ present some sort of incentive be- cause this old rivalry seems to have suffered some kind of de- cline, while being overshadowed by the games with RPI. Hamilton has suffered by an equality by a levelling process that has cut our rolls to a lower total than the bumper post-war years. This is national newspaper 1 week. Be kind to the Con-I cordiensis. I --------------' JAMES Restaurant • The First Choice of Prom Go-ers • GOOD FOOD AT REASONABLE PRICES 426 State Street AN OBSERVATION-B. C. ••. a pleasant companion reduces the length oj a journey Puhliliu.r Synu And what better companion could anyone have than a handy picnic cooler filled with delicious Coca-Cola. It's a sure way to travel refreshed. BOmED UNDER AUTHORITY Of THE COCA·COLA COMPANY iY SCHENECTADY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY \Colee\ lsa regisflrecllrade-IIHJJ'i. @ 1951, THE COCA·COiA COMPANY Noveml u Tl season HopinJ eleven Contln The 1 tests ar series. c Hamiltc on the seems 1 two sq1 slightly four lo After encoun from l 21-14, l ing sb over K iast w• had u· Hobar1 playec Fres outsta1 terbac: this s• Ron ~ he dis] ning Also Gumet agains and P' fensiv guard del, a hams The threa1 aroun c

1951 • U So- at the De- e main of will for all jy and ad min- West on the is the ects to 300 and great under- e brief M. Page Eleven November .16, 1951 Union Closes With Hamilton The Union College football team winds up its current~------------------------­ season tomorrow against Hamilton on Alexander Field. Hoping to even theil' record for the year, the H2mmerstom eleven will be looking for their fifth straight win over the Continentals. The Dutchmen have won 24 con-~>--- tests and dropped twenty since the I G . h th · k' ft · · · t d · 1890 Alth h i avlll eaves e p1gs m a e~ 1 serle~· orJgma e m · oug , moving into the backfield to take ' Ha,m1Jton shows only a 2-4 record • th b . 11 Th 1 · 1 th th th t dT 1 · 1 • I e a . ey a so emp oy e on e year, · e ra 1 wna r1va ry 1 q . r k' k d'ff t · seems to bring out the best in the U!C' IC on 1 · eren occasiOns. two squads. Union has fared only Although tht- Dutchmen suffere<! slightly better with three wins and three injul'ies in the Middlebury four losses. fray, they will enter tbe Hamilton Afte1· dropping their first two encortnter with their squad intact. · enootmters, the Continentals came , Halback L-en Klingberg wi'll hor from behind to defeat Haverford, ! ready to go again .after being re- 21-14 brealdng an eight game los-! moved from last week's game witb ing ~trealt. They proceded to roU I a aggravation of his leg injury. over Kenyon 26-12, but were stopped i Senior Jerry O'Lougblin will also W.st week by Hobart, 14-6. Union swing back into action at his end had little trouble in rolling over position, as will center Jim Salerno Hobart, 27-7, in perhaps th-eir bt\st who lost two teeth at Middlebury played game of the season. l11St week. Freshman Jim Dunn has been an The starting lineup will probably outstanding performer in the quar- find O'Loughlin and Randy Oram. terback slot for the Continentals 1 who will be playing their final this season. Subbing for veteran game for the Garnet, at the ends; Ron Seaman in Haverford game Bill Friday and Ed O'Meally at he displayed both passing and run- the tackles; senior John Kennedy ning ability. and freshman Joe Guerra at Also in the backfield will be Dick guards, and Salerno at center. Gumerl9ck, who scored 15 points In the backfield Bill Snyder will against Haverfovd, and the elusive team with Klingberg at halfback, and _powerful Curt Townsen~. De- Jesse Dickson will be at fullback, fenSJve stalwarts along the !me are and Tom Giambruno will do the guard Bob McLean, end Bob Hen- quarterbacking. del, and Don Tomas. Don Abra- The defensive lineup will prob- hams is a fine defensive back. ably find O'Loughlin and Dick - This may be the starting line-up for the Dutchmen in their finale with Hamilton. In the line, L to r. are: Oram, Linn, Friday, Salerno, Guerra, Kennedy and O'Loughlin. In the backfield are Giambruno, qb; Snyder, rhb; Dickson, fb, and Klingberg, lhb. center. Oram and Snyder will play 1 on a winning note and close with a the defensive halfback posts, Fo- even record for the year. The Gar- Uno the fullback slot, and Kling- 1 net looked impressive in their wins berg the safety position. \over R.P.I. and Hobart but seemed After being trampled by Williams to have trouble getting started and Middlebury, the Dutchmen I against their superior opposition on The Continentals _are al':\ays ~ Havill at ends, Kennedy and threat to score w~th th~lr en- I O'Meally at tackles, Bradt and Fri- around pass play m which enc' day at guards, and Salerno at ~~~~f~lt(~)~llt~l~lli~Il~l~I!I~~~~~~~~,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ·-----------------------· I I 1 Glasses That Fit Properly t I I will be anxious to end the season the road. 1 Accurate Prompt Service t • • t To Your Optical Needs I l l ' James DiNapoli : • • l Dispensing Optician : t PHONE 4-7906 t : t t 98 Jay St. Schenectady, N. Y.l : (Opposite City Hall t t • ~----------------------~ John D\erek-Donna also Steriing Hayden-Viveca Linfors Thomas Mitchell also Kind Lady • • • • • • also Listen to R etnihi~ce • • • Miss Beth Lee's Hammond Organ Music at VAN CURLER TAP ROOM LATE SNACKS and DRINKS 'TIL 1A.M. ..



': . . ·. : ,;, . \ ~- ;. . . . ' ' . . ~ . . . Symposium Pages 3 and 4 . • : ~ Swimmers OpE!n Se~son Tomorrow · PRICE 10 CINTS Seven · Men Se : le : cte : d -As Me . tnfJers of New Independent COuncil -,Trocme · Addr . esses Students Trocme Speeches On Human Values .. H-• - -- _ h . 1· ht · w · - .k _ - _. · - : 1g · .. Ig . - s . · ee - · Sev:en meh were elected to the . Independent Council in an electiQn held Wedt;test'l,ay ~nd . Thursday .of this wee~. The men chose:p. were WilHam T~ Pappas, Richard A. Dolan; . Pastor Andre Trocme of Le · Chambon, FranGe, director Davis w_. Griffith, Hueston ·Collingwood; Oscar Gru~ky~ · of Maison de Ia . Reconciliation, Versailles and European Edward L. Lee, and Robert (,}, Dreyfuss. Secretary of the · International Fellowsl.lip of Reconcilation polaP. Polls H,ighest · was. the. guest of Chaplain Robert R Fulton and of Union Dolan i~d the voting with 55 : : GJ . C .. - ~ b ' . • . . •. CoUege this week. While on campus Pastor Tt9Cme pre- vc>tes, followed b:y: Papi>il.S with 46; ' · . ' . : . ee ·. . ' u . · . In sen ted a public lecture iil addition to addressing student- Grusky a11d Griffith, . 44 each: Lee, ' · · · ·' · f lt · t' d t lk' •th •t · d II di !1 7 . • ; Collingwood, 89; and Dreyfuss c · oncert w · · . · .· .· ·. : . - 1 .. • _·· t . -h . ·_ . . . acu . · Y mee ,mgs an · a . mg W1 · : Cl- Y an CO _ eg . e • S· ., . cussion groups. • . . Qn \Defendin~ Values\ ~-~.......,.-'---~-....,..-\\\\'\'----I®• Poctor Trocnie's th~me for his Others who received votes were · · · · - . · · · . talks a11d discussions was \Defend- Willlam · ~. P4;}1( Sl?; Delbert · R · . usse · · ·· J·I · . · s · · aae . F ' · . . m · s t . hig auman Values.\ This topic has '\V~mple Jr, ' 33; ~Obert A,.. Baliai'tl, . · • . . ' : • .. . ·. · · . · .. ' : . . . . e . · · ,. oru · s . . e • become the major concern of his 26, and Dc;mald ~. Gerfin ,. lO. Her- .. . .. • . Ufe as his backgroUnd revea~. ~iii bert A. Ri~;J · J;\e9eived tw6 write-,in . The : Umon College Glee . : F' . . ' o · M ' onday speaking to'!lr throughoUt tl:!.e coun., YQtes. • · Club fall concert Will be held . . . r . .. · _ .. · . • · · . . . . . try has the . a,lm of ~wakening peo- Qf tqe meJl; elected .to the gov- . : with the Russell · Sage Giee · E'<istOr Aildre Tr _ ocme sl,l()wn ~ili'essing a ()lass • . N Ch ~ - - ' ple to tqe task of secur~ng . pe~c.e ~r11in,g body of t:Qe ~ewly tqr~;ne~ . Cl . . b t . . . . .- . _. hi · · . 0 - 0 - ft · . . • _ · ap · e · : and ot illustrating fro _ m his _ : own · I . d · d . t iz ti · c 111 · U · · omorrow 111 Memorial• ·· s viSit tQ _ cam _ p · us this week. P_ . a _ · stor Trocm _ e mad _ ·_ e three speeches , n epen en ' organ a o;n, . · o ng- . · . . .. · . · · . . · · ·. _ : · .· • . · . · · ·. . . · . · · · · · : ex __ perience how _ pra __ ctical p\'o~e . ss · · d D · f G \ffith d p Chapel at 8 00 Ad · lh :Meinorl~J Cl,la;pel plus ~timerous . otb,er appearRJ;l~s before small • woo 1 . . rey _ uss; · ri · . ; an · ap• . . . . . · · · . - : p.m. . · nus• . · · · · f . . · can b _ e . maqe in completh'lg tl.le tasl!:. p~s a!:e $eniors, while Dolan, ;Lee, . sion will be $1 ; 00 e~cept for . gTo1JpS. during llls th,ilee claY . !!~Y· A new series 0 noon . Durmg the war; the Pas-tor 1'&.- and Grusk~ are jun~ors. Colli!;lg~ . students who wilt be ad.. . chapei programs f~atuting . filiated - the di<;tums Of the Vichy wood a;ng Grus~y were me~bers of . 'tt d . If . Tw ' .. . t · Expect Larg · e Crowd at > ' student forums will begin · g.ovel'n~eht and beca~e a . f!lV~tal t~e (:Ommittee appointed by the . nu ~ . ree. • 0 pom s . ' Monday it was announced ' : figur _ ~ m . the fight against the op- Sttident Council to draft tlle con- . credit Wlll be giVen. · • . _ ~ : . . .· . . · • , pressiOn of any anq all peoples. He stitt;ttiQD, of the group. fitrec~ .,y (Jampbeil F. t All s t D. < thiS week 'by Jay Cohn, chan·-:- worked with the underground and To :).'Tame Officers The RtJSSell Sage Glee Clul,>, . trs . ' '' - por 8 znner man of the Student Council ' was at one time imprisoned because T~e conStitution wa.S . unanimously . ' U~der the . directfon of :Mr. Frank . T . he Block \U\ So _- ciety and the Schenectady ' Alumru' -chapel committee. . ot~ehvisicrhefy . u . . sgaolvteornm ' sweenart. · allegiance to approved. by the independents in a Hunter, . and ~anage~;l by Miss · . special ~eetin,g, Novembet 14:. At · Nancy French . will arrive on cam.- AssoCiation will sponsor t4e first annual all-sports dinner ' ';l'o DisCUS$ Edu~tlon Doctor Tro . cme ' s reaction to , the the' Noven.J,ber 20 meeting of tl1,e . pus SatUrdaY aftern<>on, for a r~ Monday, . Dec~mber 3; at the Van Curler Hotel. A crowd The se~ies, Cohn said; will in\ effect of two wars on the people Stud · t co · c\l t . h titu · ti · · n h 1 ith th u i c · 1 ' 1 · · f · d 400 . t . · · d t . . d . ~ - • t . d . t . - . • elude · discussions on educl!.tion jn of Europe · has found concrete · ex- en, · un _ t - , e cons . o , _ . earsa w · e n on · .. o ege Q aroun . . s u en s an . a:~umm are expec e · · o attend. pres . sio · n 1 • n . hi·s wo .. rk · in the 11 · ·ttle rece~veci ita full and finl;ll approval. · Giee Clu'b, which . will be directe!i . · general, Union College's educa- The seven- man · coqncil wlll ei(;lct . by Mr. :Rop~rt Cap:1pbell and is · ~ks()n : .Speak~r tional program, student · attitudes . Fre!),ch village of Le Chambon sur a, p~esident ~;~.ild secretazy~treasurer. nll!.naged by Paul Woods. The girls ' W:~in speaker fo].\ the fete will I ' F c · Alt .and needs, extra-curricular activi~ I.iigilOI!. where he is demonstrating '!'his body will tllen integrate the wlll eat at various fraternity . · be Harry Markson of the class of ·. • • . · ' • .. · • · · . : • efS .. hties, teachh:~g 1 methods, soclalthbe- that brMothetrhBood:u~~ PTe pthracticed • . social : activities of · the grotJp. . houses before the concert. .1927, now general mat),age).\ of the. · . avior, znOra s, ap.d :many o · er 11& · ea.LU.J. - ... · ru AU:ri:on\fraternjty 1r1en c)n c<lPl.PUs . The u _· nlon . _ College- Glee _ ._ _ Club wiil I~ternational Bo~n,g Club of. N __ ew ' \H . · -. _ -· e · -. 1 _ --~ -- w ·· · .· ·_ · e · ·. e ·' k : .· ,, ; topics which may be of Interest to . In . his 4tlks on campus, I;>octor t ti 11 b Th York City Also fe t d 11 b college- f!tudenti:t ':fhe P!-\Ograins . Trocme also asserted that .. we are ~u ; oma ca . Y znem er!f, . ey · sing two gro . ups of songs . includ- ·. · . . · _ ' • . · a 'ijre W1 . · e d . d\ n · ee . a _· ed a m · _ aintenan,ce · and re.:...: _ _ may w 1 thdraw from- the orga:niza - lng : · · · · · _ tile well known bo~ng official and .will be conducte as open tscus- ...... tlon ~f theY. so designate, although . .. . . . _ , . . . former great pugihst, RtJI:!Y Gold- · The . Inter-Fratermty·Coun .. sion sessions with several students firmation of truth In oMer to set if t~ey r~main members they will . 1. Sleep ~y Jesus, a Putch stein, who will show an e:x:clusive cil changed the date of ~'Hell acting as le~ders f()r each chapel . . the world back on its . feet. He dis• not be taXed tor functions they carol, arran(fed by Mr. Campbell film, of the Louis-l\(t~ciano fight . . Week\ from the week follow- The first . progra~ on Mc;niday cussed the co~tri};)utlons . tha,t a. (iol1't pa,rticipate in. All univ~rsat' a~d fe~turing Rob~rt :Murrf!,y, .solo- Tb;e. toast~aster will l>e Professor • - . . . . , . · . . • : . will 'Pe on the su'PJect, \The pul\- · small gt;oup -has to · offer as well as fees -a~e prohibited by the • COnsti- - 1st. . Fr-ederick L. Bronlier, '23, of ~e . mg . Sprmg vacation to the . · pose of education.\ Piscussion QY . the ~:econcilatlon after the :first two tution. 2. A Robert Sha.w arrangem,ent college }listory department. week :beginning March the lltUdents in the audience wiij be wars as well as for the problems Philos Meet Cornellians of a Negro spiritual, \It X Got My Mal'~son haa b,a,d a varieci career 3rd, at its November 13 invited. · that we are now faced with today. • Ticket, Qan t Ride?'' that lltems from, ~ active under- meeting. This chang · ~ was : ••we will attem,pt to ex!lJXllne Pastor Trocme poln,ted out that 3. \Silenendoah.\ graduate iffe at . Union where ~e · ourselves . and our ide~/' Cohn . \innocent\ · nations c~nnot be re- . 4. · \~othlng Like a Dame,\ was . sports - editor and · later a man- . necessary since the former said. \It can only be a success if conciled, but that each m,ust be . from ;'South . Pacific.'' . aging editQr of the Coilcordiensis. <late conflicted with Holy . the ~ttu(ient . body · accepts it as a ready to admit some guilt in order ' Upon le!l'Vihg ci;>llege he first pur~ . Week. cb,~llenge and appreCil!.tes the lin- · to perpetrate a settiement. . The Russell . Sage Glee · Club Will . sued. a course . ofJ\otirnSlism . writing : .· po _ rtan _ ce of stJch a provocl;ltive These · were only a :few of the sing bile gr~)l , lP of songs. . Th!in t 6 r the Bronx Home J'fewa, and : . To Ptibllsh Son~ )Joo~ series of progJ.\ams.'; many points . tl:tat Pastor Trocme The . Unlqn College Phiiom,athe11n . both clubs will combine to sing l~ter for the - New Yorker n;t,agazine . . _ The houses w:re informe(i of the touched on during his extensive :Qepating team, · eontinuil)g Its a.c- several choruses of Handei's \MeS:. : . . . . . . Graduate Councrrs - . plan to publiSh · . Refers to T~ Article · ' visit ()f the campusl which was en- t;lve Season, wUl travel to Oswego slab.\ The choruses willlnclude the . H~ eventu:;~.lly wound . 1,1p doing · a sbng 'Qooklet. Sgt. Miller-, di- Re~errlng to the ttrticle on \The . ' compassed by an extremely tun State 'i'eac)lers College today to fan:ious . and thrillip.g \liallelujih\ publicity. work f9r the ~>nee . power.o · rector of the . college marchin,g Younger Generation\ in a recent filC~edule. pa!,'ti¢ipate in an invitatiop.a,l de- Chorus. The combined . clubs will f~ 20th Century ~p~rting Club of · band, has a.Sked the fraternities to isS,ue of Time maga$ine, be said, On Tuesday . he spoke in . front o( · bate •. ToiD,orrow, the t~ ~Oill., be under . the direction of . Mr . . Mike JacQbs ,and rlsm~ to the posi- send in !lllY band ai'rl!ngement they \We will try to toucll upon many . a French ' Conversation Seminar at posed of J:4wre~ce J:,.evine; Monroe Campbell with Mr : HtJnt$r at the tion. of gep.eral.manager of th~t OJ.\- . may have of any of their songs . of•tl),e :points covered In thi!3 much- · . 11 a.m. and again in fro:Q.t of the SllveriD,?-n, Norman Scull and Wil- · organ, and Mrs. Christine Hope at gamza~ion. With . the dem~se Of This wlli enable the band to play discussed survey of our age-group.\ t;!tudents in chapel at noon on the l!am Ketchun.:t, will continue to the plano. · . Jacobs cl'l.lb M;r. Markson b~~ up f - raternity as well as college . songs The · programs last for only topjc, \~urning the Tide;''- . Ithaca wher.e they face CorneU. li8B 70 Members with the new International Boxing . . . i 1 . . . . . . . ' .. . . . . . Mam Lecture Wednesday The Philos a!-\e entering their ; Club whete he is n6w the general o~ spec a occasions. . . twenty, mmutes a:Q.d Cohn admitted On Wednesday Pastor Trocme e~ghth week of competition, . !I). The Union Glee Club has, at ·1r1anager. · . . At this week ~ s meeting the coqn'- that the discussion would :neces~ ~poke on \Church and State in their last previous debate, before • present , nearly' 7() · me~:Pbers ; more Co . . . .. n.m Fl . bt • • c;lll ~ea!-\ . d a. ;repor~ from Gc;Jorge sarily be limited, \OUr principal Nine~eenth Century Frap,ce\ at 9 Thanksgivin 'Vacation the . . ar- than . twice as in,a~y a.s last _ year _ _ ~en._,. on g: _ Batk1ew ~ cz concerqmg the North- objective is tQ get the - campus : b f h. to 21 1 F tiel ated. ing the Eaate.rn ~:rifted ' and it _ is o'!le . of the largest an,fi . .. Ma~kson plans to ' give the pro- .. eastern Co~erence of Interfr~_~-ter - thinking about these probl~ms,\ he . a.m. ·· e ore a IS rY ·· · c ass. ro~ Stafes Debate tournament lleld at • most enthusi~Jiltic turnout~ in mapy )::qoter s . slap.t. on spor~ ; w.itll a . nity Col1n,ctls held at the Umve!-\- · sa\ d. \If we CliP. do that, J will ~fs~~s!~o~:~~·~~l~ ~~n~~~~ -~~~ . Ve · t . th . . kenci of No- yeat:s. Tb~ club h,as pla1;1ned a _lleavy emphasis on acthnties m and , sity of VermoJ!,t . . The V!lrious . rush• . consider it a s'ijccess.'' 1 F . 2 30 m · t 4 00 · v ·. mrmb . orn 9 . _ 1 • 0 0 ~ e wee · · vecy active · f!eas _ . ·· _ on. _ Tonight the _ y around · Nevr YorJt City . an(l: Madi- ing rules. of ot11e~ college:s, .that . ege, rom : · P • . ' 0 : p.m. e e · · . . . · · are giving a con<;ert in Walden, · son Square Garden. He h~s · prom-. are to b&. mcluded in · . the pubhshed <Co'Qtl~t;ted on Page 4 > Won 5 at Eastems and next Friday they will be ~il ised to show an unrelease~ film of . minutes of the conference, will : be st · d t A · d · d · . . · . . o · · A:t Verniont an affirmative team Greenwich, dc;mnecticut under the : th¢ tec~~t oJ~ Lo._uil'i-RC?ck ~ar<:iano \ 1.1tudied PY the IFC when they at- U en S ·. war _ . ~ _ • .. · · u · . · . m'' : on · . p . · f0 · f _ es . · sor · . · · S consisting of I,.eVin~ and Eliot : 1.1pon~:~orshlp of th~ So1,1tl1 Connect!~ figbt With . Ruby G.oldstem giving !-\ive. _ ThiEr information. will 'Qe Ch S b } h Loshak - defeated the University ot : cut Alumfii As~ociat!on. On De- a running Co:tn:tnenta~y. . used to }lelp write the rtiles for . • . . em .· . c 0 ars IPS . At . s . · tudt· . ;..s . Co · _ · nf _ . ab Pe~nsylvanla, Wagner College, an& c~mber 13,. at :i.o J,j.m . , t}ley wUI \Ruby Goldsteil}, one of the ring's . next fali's rusl;ifng pri;>grfl,m at t:; SUffolk · colle:g:-e, while -losing to the give a. tele'-?,sed ].\ecital lasttng a greatest fighters, and now the best tr·nio~. Twelve Uni'on College students Professors Harald A. Larrabee UniVersity of Verrno1;1t by one half hour ~ver WR<M;J. - · known professional referee is weli · Coun<;il Pr$~i4ent Willard ; · Taylor have been named. as recipients of · and Coi:iina!;l H:islop of Union will point. .A Uniop. negative team , q'Qalified ln his . role of :Q.arrator· reported that, a:lthoug'b the prom the W. Howa:r,d Wright Scholar- att!Jnd \'the me~tings inaugurating made ' Up of SctJii an4 ~etchum, de- becil).U!le he officiated at this par .. ticket S!l!eli were hlgheJ;\ than last ships, according to an lilnnounce- the Ainerican · Studies Association of fes.ted th¢ Untversity 6f . Rochester n .. _ el . p ' _ ' h·I·cs E . · x· . t : e_·l · td: · ' ticulai:' contest. In addition to the year, the dance lost 'in, the neigh- ent by Dean, c. William :a:untley. - :t'{ew York ~t Cornell U~versity on and Wellesley, but were (,lqtp6inted ' coinm,e*tacy Mr. Golc;lstein is ex- bo).'hood ot forty dollars, !~,'hiS was The . awards are made to students Saturday; _ Dec~mber. lat. by forensic groups frot:n Princet()n ru · t·o _ - . . r · · I·n ·. g . . · Classes· · . , - ~ected to discuss probiems . aiid attributed t6 the fa,ct that expenses . · in the · field of chemistry at the At the evening session In tbe Stat .. ·. and Navy. . . , · . . (,)t}ler topics ~~;Jlating to the fight , were higher tllan last year and be- College, with preference gi:ve~ to ler. Hall, ;J?rofessor · Lar].\abee is to be _ Next week, the Phll6inatl;leans . Attendance at th!l freshmen . . game . · _ . . _ . cause o~ }ow rec$ipts .. on co~ces • students froiD, the Schenect~dy ar~a . one of th,.fee particip~nts in a panel wlll . continue their . . s~mi-weekly . tutoring classes, sponsore!l by the ,: The ~inner is the fir.st Of ita k~nd !!ions. _ ';i'hls los:' wlll be pro-rated by terms ~f the bequest. . discussion of \The 1920's: a Prob- progl'aml! over WRUO. Tl:teir topic ,; Delphics Society, · has decreased and ~1gb }lopes • are he1d tor its · S;tm()~~ the var1o\ls fraternities. on · Reclpieil,ts of the awards t!lis ~~h ~rof . ~~~~~ - di~~~fglinl _ rz __ ler s;;d~: fQr _ the Monday _ prog~am will be dur'\ the ast feW weeks but the ' !!UCCeils ip. its · ~ttempt :to better a !!hdmg . scale that wm take mto year are: :Oavid ;L. Barry, Groton, whether or. . not Union B · AFRO'fC · · ,..g . ~ · b extended' for at alumni ai:id undergraduate rela- . account atten,dance , f~~res of each N , Y.; Leo F. Corcoran, Groton, Un~ver.sity of )3uffalo representing student$ ShQUld be req.qir.ed to take lclastse6s wtHor e week according io'. tions. H;onored gliests are feW, bqt . house. . ' Taylor sajd that he felt : N. y;; Kenneth F. Greenough,~ Sche- . hiStory, Professor A:r . thur Mize~er ;J?hysi()al Educa.tion. . . . . eas ne ~ · · e · · · ' · · · · . the Block \U\ Society is Mnoring that tl:te loss would b,ave been nec~ady; Herbert G'!lston, Paterson, ()f Cqr.n,eli representjn,g English, and Next weekend! the Philos )VUl DaVid Platt. . · . ll'red Parks of the · athletic depart- · higher · if . it had not . been tor the . :N:. J.; Walter fi. Hqffman , Nyack, Professot Larrabee representing ~ravel to a:n invitational (J,~ba.te a.t . T}le . schedule f()r n~t week Is: ·. . ment as it$ special gu;est . . e:ltcelient job · done l:)y tl).e ' Prom . :[\l - . Y . ; :R,obert LS;J,Ud ; ise, .1\msterdani, . philosophy. West. :Point on Friday and then to MONDAY: Math 2a (trig sec- . . . . . . _ committee. N.Y . ; William Morcom, ~itt_Bburg'tl, IUs expected that a:t the m,eetlng, V:WJsar on Saturday: The season, · ti<in>: _. ip,ve!:'se tri~ fUncitions, s(llu- · r~~~~~~~~~~ Loca.i Banci Suggested • Pa.; :Oona1<1 Ol:;~en, Staten Island, %ne~ . fca:tt:fs~~~y, bfite _ ;:;::.rsphfx: for the · ftrst semester will clO$G _ on tiona of oJ;Hiqul§ triangles~BH 101,. . Va · c · att • · .n · . ' T;m ' · iA . . . . . . . . . • N. Y.; Frank A. ;J?epe, Schenec- Sa,turday-, December ~5. when they _ . TUES~AY: Physic& 4a; Chapters ' lit ' . . u n . J.: : e I Hh . e stated that he - felt . that. it taqy,; Wiliiam _ · . ~. Stoll, Newburgh , o:;~ophy, anq allied subjects, . a re- fa<le Utica College. . . ~5-27, properties of liquids Q and .. f.( CIU'tstmas vacation will begiD,~ waf3 a duty of the IFC to sponsol' N, ~~:John H. Wutster, Yorll;vme, giOJ;i.al brl!,nch for upper New York : ; gassi)B-'BH_ 1 . 06 . . ~at 4:$0 p.m., W!!ldn _ · escJav, De-11 a f~ll dance ~ven tho~gh there is N. _ y.; _ Edward . J . . Zimmern, E!!,st • State wlli be formed ils a part of \-~ \ ~ a small loss smce the Student Tax the Americ~n S.tuaies Association 0 .. H . . Math la.; sel~cted topics in al· . cemoer 19, a.n(! cla$ses will be ' ..., • · . • . · . · . · .. · . Rock~way, N. Y. · founded _ in Wash_ · in . gt . on . in .. ;..ay · o! · . p · e · n OUS \ e . . \b . nd . 1 ' ... \- -· th ry of . . ..a..run-\' at '. s ' ·oo · ' . Th··--\-· . . , ~,.;ommltt~ is only able to · under- . . . . . . . . - . - . . , . . . . . ~.. ra a ,___ e e~e:Q. ....... v . eo . . ,. ..,.. · · \\\' . ... ~ . ~m.. . ~ ....... y, .: write one · prom a year, (;Llili( . T~E) Wright awar~s are :tna,de this y~r, fol\\ the PUJ;\pose of en- . . . . a9uations BU ~(X). . Ja.nua.t•y s. De<an Huntley has~ . S rln ;s . Prom had a sizeable loss.) available from a scholarship . tun<l couragmg the study of American 'rhe Character Research Founds.- . - German la-Bli 101. lanno1Jn~ _ T)da clarffles the _ i!R . T.~ f o~ su . .. ested that the Councli e:;~tabllshllP by W . . Howa,r~ Wright chdlizatio;n. Codman Hislop is As- tlqn has - invited th. c _ stuc;lel;lt, faculty •- Chemistry la:; . Chapters - 14-15, · ~ote In tb,e catalog wblcJt _ •ett! . hy it g~ 8 1 · f . t of Schenectady., a Iliember of. the . ll(.)Ciate Professor of American !1-lld staff to ap, · .open. hotise . 'ttJes- w~ight and. volume pr!>blem&--.- . . student 1Ul~rta.li1 as the beigln-~ ;ea~~~~ dance c~nstcfe~~sh.l~ra t~!~i . ·\:lnio;n Class . of 1895. Mr. Wright, . . C~vilization at Union anci author of <laY afternoon from 3-6 p . m. in the . ;a~07~ . . . . . . . iliJig and en(~ o( vaeatlon. Tho311 . b d . the 'th riain , b - . d s Pre _ sident . ot the Sch~nectady V~r- hlliltO!-\ical' ~o!;'Jts 911 Albany and · the newly re(iecora,ted 014 Gym Dormt- Wl!lDNESDAY: Matll, 2$. (a.l- . . E . 4:la.ll ·announces that next yea~r, . · an ra . r an a . · · · e an a · nish Co., is a Mfe Jl4;e:tnber of the · Mohawk River; Professor Larrabee tory. There Will be exhibits ,and . ~ebra secttonl; analyties.l geomet11 Christmas ~ · 'Will start; on ·. in the past. . . . . · Board of Trustees of Union Ci;ll- Is an editor of '\i'be 'f.rew England l!taff members . will cfr~ula.te With . defip.itions ~d- formula..,..BH 107 . · a SaturdaY and clat!• will be · At the 1;1ext meeting of the IFC )ege, aild is tl:~e - chai r man of _ the Quarterly\ · and has giveq courses intormatl'on about the . projects. Re.. AU · cl~liell ~re acherul~d to be- res1-.rnetl ol). a Mon~y. · : pol;tions . of the pew . Council con,.- ·Building an<l Groul)ds Committee ln American · philosophy for many trea.im).enta will be 'ISe~ecl. gin -B.t 1:;80 l';m. · --------~ . . ·. <continued on ~age 4) , of the Board~ · years. i . I '.· .· .. i · I I , ' : 1 ~ I ' ! I ; ') ' . , I ' . ' ·f ; .· l . l .- ~ . . z . ~ , j . ·I · . . i

2 <tinurnr Member Associated Col- legiate Press and distri- butor ot the Collegiate Digest. National Adver- tlslilg Representative: Na- tional Advertising Service. lnc., College Publ!shem Representatlce, 420 Madi- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- llshed every Friday of the school year, Editorial Offlce,Washburn Hall, Union College. Pub- lication Otflce, The Ga.. zette Preea, 834 State St. Entered In the Schenec- tady Po11t Office as Sec- ond Class Mall Matter, subscription lOc a copy; $3 year, delivered all')'- where In the United States. SENIOR BOARD DONALD E. SCHWARTZ '62 ..........•...•........•.. Bdltor-ln-Chlef WILLARD G. 'rAYLOR '62 ........................... Associate Editor JOHN J. CASSIDY '5B ................................... News Editor JOHN P. KENNEDY '52 . . . • • .. . .. .. . • .. • . . . .. . .. • .. • . .. Sports Editor MONROE SILVERMAN '52 • . . . . . . • . . • • . . . . • • . • • • • • . . • . Feature Editor ALAN S. FORMAN '63 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • Photography Editor LEO KUPERSCHMID '52 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • Business Manager GEORGE F. REDINGTON '52 . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . • Circulation Manager JUNIOR BOARD MARTIN B. GORDON '54 ...•........•.... Alilslstant Make-Up Editor ALFRED L. -GOLDBERGER 'M .............•• Assistant Copy Editor HERBERT L. SPIRA '54 •.. , ................... Assistant Copy Editor IRWIN S. BARG '53 • . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . • • . . . . . . • . Assistant Sports Editor WILLIAM P. MOHRMANN '58 ...•............ Assistant Sports Editor ALFRED H. KINGON '53 .•.•• , •.••..••••.••. Assistant Feature Editor HERBERT L. HILLER '52 . • . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . . . • . . Exchange Editor HOWARD BRODY '62 ............................... Exchange Editor GEORGE J. WRUBEL '53 ................ Assistant Business Manager HORACE VAN VOAST '52 •.....••.••. Assistant Circulation Manager R.EPORTERS Richard Heimann, Lewie Klein, Eliot Loshak, Martin Portnoy, Arthur Rosenfeld, Alfred Scoti, Donald Simmons, David Smith, Arthur Stock- man. CUB REPORTERS Peter Adler, Marvin Boris, Arthur Feldma.n, Herbert Guston, MBrtln Hauser, Ward Jones, Gary I<atz, Richard Kratt, Daniel Manning, Ian MacDonald, Herbert Wllllams, Walter Salm, Stewart Robinson. BUSINESS STAFF Joseph Allen, Robert Beck, Lawrence Greenberg, Robert Silverman CIRCULATION STAFF CUrtis Bates, J. Lowell DaVis, Joe Martin, David Brown, James Fitz- maurice, .Richard Borst, Robert Seydel. Emphasis on Morals This is the week commonly known as Religious Empha- sis Week and the campus is distinguished by the visit of Pastor Andre Trocme. Pastor Trocme has left a great im- pression upon the student body with his great integrity and depth of feeling. Religious Emphasis Week might better be called Moral Emphasis Week. It should be devoted to examining our relationships with other people in a college, national, and world community. Many people find guidance and great comfort from organized churches. Other people shy away from any sort of organized religion. And yet we are all guided by ethical principles that pervade through Western civilization-the Christian ethical principle. Pastor Trocme's entire career demonstrates the great truth in the manner they feel best. If we can derive from this week a fuller understanding of our responsibilities as citizens, then the week is success- ful: While learning and understanding Christian ethics to guide our living within our own society, we must also ap- preciate the different cultures that other societies guide themselves buy_ and not attempt to impose ourselves upon them. D. E. S. The Need for Awareness Who should be the next president of the United States? That is the question we present to you, the readers, in an attempt to promote awareness of serious political problems around us. It is our feeling that this awareness is one of the greatest contributions our colleges can make. Professor Henry Steele Conunager of Columbia Uni- versity has said that the American people will be safe only in \an educated and enlightened democracy.\ The core .of this society are the college men who devoted four years going tht·ough the processes of education and enlighten- ment. They must lend themselves to the problem of passing on what they have been so fortunate in obtaining. We will not be safe when only a portion of the population has politi- cal maturity and understanding. We will be lost when that segment, which by no means includes even a majority of college men, fails to be aware. This symposium can do little to educate you. We pre- sume a reasonably high level of intelligence and education. We also presume a high level of apathy, which is despair- ingly prevalent on campus. We wish to arouse you into giving the problems of our national and world community a good deal of thought. We wish to arouse you in making others around you aware. D. E. S. A Mistake Somewheres \Students taking the first year course in Air Science are excused from the physical education requirement,\ is a direct quote from the college catalogue. This fact was further clarified at freshman camp, by the admissions de- partment, and in the summer bulletin. Yet now freshmen AFROTC students are being required to take gym. No doubt such a policy will start people wondering as to the validity of the other guarantees set forth by the ROTC which can be encroached upon by the school authorities. The college advises that freshmen do not engage in too many extracurricular activities. But they go ahead and tax us with these extra hours in phys-ed. Though only re- quiring one hour a week it is an unnecessary nuisance. More than anthing else, this effects the morale of thEl freshman class. If a college can break their guarantees why can't the students have the same right? a Since this was done without the previous knowledge, before the academic year of the ROTC, I think it is a fetid way to entice students into the unit by the college. Boris DI111UaUTID aY VM \Pll tell ya, it'll knock your eyes out.\ Cam:pus Cull.ings An article pdnted in the TUFTS~-~-----------­ WEEKLY states ur.der the head- was a booming success this year. line \Dartmouth Hikes Sex Fines Our football t~m won a glorious From 5 to 10 Dcllars\ · · · \The victory, alumni turnout was large high cost of living has caught up considering the weather conditions, with sex at Hanover, New Hamp- and- someone had a good time mak- shlre. Dartmouth men who enter- ing off with several hundred· dol- taln women in their rooms after Iars worth of Norwich uniforms.\ the regular hours will' now have Souvenirs always bring back to undergo a stiff $10. fine com- fond memories of booming sue- pared to the previous tariff of cesses. half that amount.\ :;. ~ :;. Even at $10. Skidmore Is a poor The SYRACUSll DAILY OR- substit~e for ~se~ ~ ANGE reminds us \ .. , according From the, BARNARD BUL- to all the latest scientific data LETIN we hear that \ ... the available, every single Syracuse crowds at Baker Field were coed is a prospective mothel'.\ startled by a fil'e which broke out Yes, but we'd all be a lot hap- In the stands, and threatened to pier if they married first. wreak havoc with the morale of ~ ~ :to spectators in section 13. BUL- \Union Was ,fust'' Department LETIN is happy to print a first- The BROWN HERALD informs hand report of the near-tragedy.\ us that the Providence telephone CONCORDY is happy morale branch will remove all University didn't suffer too badly. phones if the deluge of pennies :JP :;. Ito found In coin boxes does not The NORWICH GUIDON reports cease.\ that \ Homecoming Weekend Notice Students who do not plan to re- turn for the second semester should so inform the Registrar's Office at once. This does not apply to seniors graduating in January. Students who wish to change their curricula should consult with ,Dean Huntley without delay. It is assumed that students !low taking \a\ part courses will con- tinue In the \b\ part of those courses. Any student who, for any reason, cannot continue In tlie ''b\ part of the courses which be is now taking must repGl't to the Registrar's Office by Fl'iday, De- cember 7. This Includes students who have already had the \b''' part. A student now registered in the courses listed below should obtain a slip from th~ Registrar's Office to be signed by his adviser giving hlm permission to take substitute courses in the second semester. • Art 25 (Art Appreciation) •English 12a (Public Speaking) English 16 (The Short Story) French 2b' (Second Year - 2nd semester) -Lee Llewelyn Placement Applications for the Danforth Foundation Fellowships are to be filed between December and March, for next year's study at an ac- credited institution. Amount of fel- lowship depends upon need. For details ,apply- to the Chaplain's office. Juniors and Sophomores who wish to make application for sum- mer work at the Naval Ordnance Laboratolo/ may obtain the neces- sary- forms at the Placement Office. File your application before De· cember 10 for the Professional and Technical Assistant examinations of the State of New York. Descrip- tions and applications obtainable at Placement Office. All Seniors who live off-campus and have not already filed their alumni I\ecord sheets are requested to drop in at the office in Wells House during the coming week. If you wish to use the placement serv- ice, make that known at the same time. The second Placement Panel, this time on the subject of Sales, will be held in the Old Chapel at 7:40 p.m. on, Monday, December 10. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1951 theater whirled Turkeys in_ Season • By Richard G. Heimann The current season -In New York is distinguished ·only by its medi- ocrity. One dull shaft of light piercing gloomy Broa:dway. \The l!'our .1:-'oster,·• a new play by Jan de Hertog starring: Jessica Tandy and her husband actor Hume Cronyn, was aptly described by one reviewer as an intimate account , and chronicle of the lives of two rather uninteresting .people. But by far the biggest disap- pointment was the Playwrights Company's production of Max.weH Anderson's \£arefoot in Ather..s.\ How any play that -rea;ds as well as does this in text could .be ao improperly and sluggishly pro- duced is beyond me, and, I'm sure, Mr. Anderson. Miscast, slow rnov\ ing, and at times embarrassing, the play failed to get off its leaden feet -even at its most pert and flip moments~ The rough King of Spa;rta was impersonated by a dese and dose :boy (who, in all his brutish sim- plicity loved being calied \stupid\ by his peers), the part of Socrates' wife was left in the hands of an actress who possessed a strong and annoying Viennese a~cent, and Socrates' .enemies were practically reduced to heavily bearded vllllans who come In periodically demand- ing the rent. The parts of Soc- l'ates and Theodosus (the former played ·by Barry Jones) were handled in thoroughly ·adequate style, but even these performances could not fBI up the outstanding> gaps so obviously prominent. While the costumes and lighting were be- yond reproach and extremely well done, the settings floated back be- tween symbolism and realism in what could be called a confusing panorama. Anyone looking at a picture post-card of Athens could more intelligently produce a set- ting. I have the dubious distinction of having seen every shaw that folded 'Thanksgiv-ing week in New York. In most cases it was an act of euthanasia to let dying dogs die, but one case .of what could be called premeditated murder on the critic's part was \To Dorothy, A Son\ which ran quite successfully in England and was handled in more th;:m .competent style by Ron- ald Howard, the .son of the late Leslie Howard. An amusing com- edy of .situation, it desm;ved more than it got. ~ \' ~ One gratifying note, however, is the appearance on the entertain- ment scene of two examples of what Hoilywood can do with good plays. In a thoroughly and obvi- ous adult manner they have man- aged to turn out \A Streetcar Named Desire\ by Tennessee Wil- liams and \Detective Story'' by Sid- ney Kingsley. The most favorable comment to be made on these two productions is that they stick fair- ly close to the original plays. \Streetcar\ ·has a cost almost identical with the original Broad- way production including Kim Hunter, Marion Brande, Karl Mal- den and Vivienne Leigh. \Detec- tive Stol'y\ stars Kirk Douglas and Eleanor Parker. The supporting c-asts in both cases are superb, and the technical elements are handled in a most gl'atifying manner. All in all, it is a long breath of clean air .to see films like this being turned out. It may be argued that television has forced the movie in- dustry to pay a little more atten- tion to the calibre work they turn out, but the phenomenal success this . type .of picture has met with insures the industry that for a change they are satisfyin!S' the public. For Your Information FRIDAY, NOV. SO-Daily~ assem-<$•>---------------- bly-Recital, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, assisted by Lois Bannerman, harp- ist, MC, noon; Thursday Musical Club Concert, MC, 8:30 .p.m. Lois Bannerman, harpist. Tickets at door. ' SATURDAY, DEC. !-College En- trance Board Exams. All Day. Physics Lab, 202; Varsity S.vf'im- ming, Union vs. Rochester at Roch- ester 3:30 p.m.; Concert, Union Col- lege Glee Club and Russell Sage College, MC, 8 p.m., Adm. $1.00, Hich School sut<'lents 50 eents. Fac- ulty, staff and students wives ad- mitted on payment of tax. SUNDAY, DEO. 2-Bunday Service, Preacher: to be announced, MC, 11 a.m.; Organ. Recital, Dr. E. A. Tid· marsh, MC, 4 p.m., assisted by Ruth Beaver Daly, soprano. Pu)>lic cor- dially invited. MONDAY, DEC, 3-Daily assembly, Student Forum, MC, noon; Sche- nectady County Alumni Assn., din- James Restaurant • GOOD FOOD at prices you can afford. Booth and Fountain Service 426 State Street ner for Union teams, Hotel Van Curler. Speaker, Harry Markson '27, Managing Director of Inter- national Boxing Assn. Tickets at Wells House. TUESDAY, DEC. 4--Daily assem- bly, speaker, Prof. Wm. B. Bristol, MC, N. First ina series of two talks on Latin America; Varsity Basket- ball, Union vs. Middlebury at Mid- dlebury, 8:30 p.m.; Nurses' Aid Capping, OC, 8 p.m.; Character Re- search Projject Open House, Old- gym Hall, 3-6 p.m.; College com- munity corcUally invited. WEDNESDAY. DEC 5-li'ree. THURSDAY, DEC. 6-Dally assem- bly, to be announcerd, MC, noon; Fraternity Night. FRIDAY, DEC 7-Daily assembly, Recital, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, MC, noon; Christian Science lecture, MC, 8:15 p.m., speaker, Mr. Thomas Hurley of Louisville, Ky., public invited. For Car Troubles See a Union Man Ask the Boys Who Trade Here William H. Plath Auto Service 60 I UNION STREET French 11 (French Conversation) German 2b <Second Year - 2nd semester) *Those students who have al- · ready taken care of this need not Spanish 2b <Second Year - 2nd semester) Spanish 11 (Spanish Conversation) Government 35 (Public Adminis- tration> Economics 49 (Business Statistics) report. · All adjustments in schedules will be made In the Registrar's Office on recommendation and with per- mission of advisers. They must be completed by Friday, December 14. Letter to the Editor Dear Editor: I wish to congratulate you on y-our well written editorial, \Is There Academic Freedom\ In the Nov. 9, 1951 issue. Also, I desire to add a footnote to it. I was at Yale when William F. Bucldey Jr. '50 was putting In his time at that revered institution. Even then he was pla,ylng the role of a miniature Savanarola, verbally attacking faculty members for not following his :versiQn of the re- ligious party line. His incessant and unwarranted attacks, moti- vated by a schoolboy's desire to gain rE)cognitlon and based on hap- hazard attendance at class lectures (there are no attendance require- ments for sophomores, juniors, or seniors in Yale College), aroused the lre of both his fellow stuclants and teachers. His \message\ was further spread by his brief but vitriolic editorship of the Yale Daily News, a position, I s1,1spect can be readily obtained there and at other colleges by- those who are willing to give of their time and energy. I am writing to defend Yale, its traditions and personnel. If it is a hot bed of something that some- thing Is made up of scholars and teachers who are searching after universal truths and are attempt- ing to convey these to t~elr stu- dents. · Be assured, stude11ts, faculty, trustees, and frienc'ls of Union- there are as many \collectivists\ at Yale as there are students in their rooms on Derby Day or Yale foot- ball weekends - that Is - alone studying their books. MAEVIN B. SUSSMAN Assistant Professor, ·sociology ~ I T.HE ACME L 0. BALFOU'R 00. Fraternity Jewelers BARBERSHOP BADGES· RINGS· FAVORS 509 UNION ST. JEWELRY LEA.T~R Gii'TS STATIONERY • PROGRAMS \Where the Servfc:e CLUB PINS • KEYS is a Pleasure\ MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or call (Nearest to the Campus) CARL SORENSEN 80 Mlll'ray Ave. Waterfor~, N.Y. PHONE TROY,-.ADAMS 8-2523 LANGE & RAPP PHARMACY \The College Students Drug Store\ CHEMICALS- DRUGS Cor. Nott Terrace and State Street FRIDAY,~ Only presidenc: Earl Wa1 that the3 Senator J Douglas. the momE General < A. Stasse Uni~ Thill do unique op] posium to felt to be sible cand Walter Rel Dean ·G. Ac and Juatic sented on men are 1 individuals The Rei \Yidely di' Senator T. bower. Wll far fallen ment with the Repul an alreadl' Governor ator Jam Henry ca· The New has given era!. The pr< candidate can Party, time loser, to try aJ who manJi port to 1 the Repul: and Eisa~ Dirkson < choice of bloc, Gen• an 'annou ma.y have as a cane addressel! Se, Harold didate fol tion, is al for top s: presidenc: director, the left v son, a ll Ejsenhow other ou former S spoken o The DE confused position the Pres: dldacy, t of the l port him nessed iJ 1924 mig Tr PresidE lean toVI Vinson ~ wing of more pr job. :Ma1 who son: the 1944 tion hac liberals Douglas, tation o1 economic man in 1 like Sec but sinc1 figure, h more th; The ri look for Fair DE the last Alben : hardly e Robert been a. l was bel Rooseve not sou remains winger, treat fr• man hii of Virg: old ba.c but har• Gover South C Russell unlikely vention !Jlllinter a. ser!o1 cratic c: civil ri~ Wher• R.euthe1 all in 1 much~ years. within · · a. third able in a youn most o1 resente• strengtl

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3Q 1 19$1 Who ·should be Next PreSident · . US 1 of the · ... By the Editors Only two men have announced their candidacy for the presidency, Senator Jlobert A. Taft of Ohio and Governor· Earl Warren of California. Several ot)1ers have indicated that they would not be considered for the post, notably Senator Paul Douglas of Illinois and Justice William 0. Douglas. Others are expected to be candidates, but are at the moment fence sitters, sueh as President Harry Truman, General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower, and Harold A. Stassen. EISENHOWER By Lawrence W. Levine PAUL DOUGLAS By Davis :W. Griifith The United States of America in The utmost suspicion-ard 1U 1952 goes to the polls to elect the. -some cases alarm-should be ll,imed President of the United States. It at any proposal w.hich would re- goes to t'he polls at one of the few move even ·a single voice from the times in its history when the peo- fast diminishing liberal camp o\f pie ar:e uncertain about their coun- the Senate. This is a general pl'in- try's future, as well as their own. clple ,df .good government. And Perhaps few times before in our yet if senatorial v.isdom provldes Unique Opportunity This does not p-reclude the unique opportunity of our sym- posium to speak for men who are felt to ·be de'Sirable, if not pos- sible candidates. Such men as Walter Reuther, Secreta1:y of State Dean G. Acheson, Senator Douglas, and Jwtice Dottglas are repre- sented on the symposium. These men are spoken for not only as individua:ls, but as ·symbols. The .Republican Party has two '\Yidely divergent possibilities in Senator Taft and General EiseJ;J.-. hower. While Eisenhower has thus far fallen back on his 1948 state• ment withdrawing -his name from the Republican list of potentials, an already strong campaign under: Governor Thoma!l E. Dewey, Sen- ator James Duff, and Senator Henry Cabot Lodge is underway. The New York \Herald Tribune\ has given its support to the Gen- eral. The prospect of a compromise candidate is likely in the Republi- can Party. Governor Dewey, a two time loser, could still be pe_rsuaded to try again. Governor Warren, who many expect to shift his sup- port to Eisenhower, may run if the Republicans bog down on Taft and Eisenhower, Senator Everett Dirksen of Illinois is the second choice of the strong Mid-Western bloc, General Douglas MacArthur, a.n ·announced suppo1·ter of Taft, may have the glamor to be chosen as a candidate, particularly if he addrl)sses the convention, Several Da.rk Honea Harold Stassen, a two-time can- didate for tll:e Republican nomina- tion, is always in contention, if not for top spot, possibly for the vice presidency. Paul G. J;ioffman, ECA director, has been spoken of as the left wing counterpart of Dirk- son, a possible second choice if Eisenhower and Taft block each other out. Robert P. Patterson, former Secretary of War, is also spoken of as a dark horse. The Democratic Party picture is confused by the non-committal position of Presidep.t Truman. If the President announces ·his can- didacy, the entire Northern wing of the party will probably sup- port him. If not, a battle not wit- nessed in Democratic ranks since 1924 might ensue. Truman Lil!;es Vinson President Truman is believed to lean towards Chief Justice Fred Vinson as his successor. The wing of the party prefers a. far more pronounced liberal for the job. :Many favor Jwtice Douglas, who some believe could have had the l944 vice presidential nomina- tion had he tried. Many of the liberals also like Senator Paul Douglas, who has gained the repu- tation of the roost competent and econo~ically and morally conscious man in the Congress. Others would. like Secretary of State Acheson, . but since he is such a controversial figure, lJ.e actually stands for little more fuan a. sy!l].bol. The right wingers of the look for some withdrawal from Fair Deal-New Deal program of the la.st 20 years. Vice President Alben Barkley is but hardly a. serious candidate. Robert A. Jackson might have been a favorite some time ago·; he was believed to be Franltlin D. RoosevelVs choice in 1940 had he not sought a third term. Vinson remains about the \'leading right winger, indicating perhaps a re- treat from the Fair Deal by man hiiXlBelf, Senator Harry of Virginia. is the darling· of, . old back-to-Jefferson Democrats, but hardly a probable choice. Dixiecrat SpUnt'l Governor James F. Byrnes of South Carolina or Senator Richard Russell of Georgia are far from unlikely-choices, but not as con- vention Democrats. A Dixiecrat ~linter of the Democratic Party is a. serious possibility if the Demo- cratic convention adopts a strong civil rights .plank, as is likely. Where theJ;J. does a man like Reuther fit Into all this? Hardly at all in 1952, but perhaps something much greater withil1 the next 20 years. A labor movement, either within th& ~mocratic Party or as · a. third party, is certainly conceiv- able in the near :future. Reuther is a young ma.n an,d . one of \labor's m~t outspoken ld1.ders. He Is rep- resented both as a symbol of labor strength, and as an indivlda.ul. · history has a leadet• been so neces· a worth while index of presidentia; sary for the American people; one qualifications this t•ule could some- who can muster he support and .times be cranged for the public ·respect of his countrymen and who good. Patil Douglas of J.llino:s pro- commands ,the focus and admi•a- vides a case in point worthy of con-, tion of the many millions of .people sideration. outside the United States, who look Douglao;'s experience in th~ Sen- toward it for guidance it must ir.· ate would have' been sufficient to evftably -give. We have such a wreck many a: mail of weakt:r na- leader present, in the name <>! ture. He climbed Capitol Hill for Dwifht D. Eisenhower. the first time in '48 just in time to sit with the inept 81st Congress as Led 21 Armies they played Jeg'islative soccer with HARRY S. TRUMAN TRUMAN By Alfred H. JUngan The best way to see if an incum\ bent should be reelected to his office is to look at his record. This is probably the safest test of all and looking at the record of Ha.rry S. Truman one will find that in spite of al ltbe criticisms .and at- tacks, that his administration is one of the most successful in U.S. history. The fact remains that \with five perce?:~ters, mink coats, hasty appointments, five stai' gen- erals, and palm beach polo shirts, Harry Truman has given the people what they want. BlOCked by Congress The places where Harry Tru- man'·s administration can be criti- cized domestically are in the areas of inflation, civil rights laws, fed- eral aid to public schools, public health aid, and a long range con- servation program.- Yet upon ex- amination of these items, in every Mr. Truman has pleaded for adequate action time iLnd again, personally and through his lieu- tenants only to be thwarted. No observant person· can· fairly lay the blame at his door but rather on a recalcitrant congress. Dwight D. Eisenhower's qualifi- cations for the presidency are slightly more than outstanding. We need not go very far back to see that during World War II, he led and directed both a military allign- ment and led a diplomatic ·career, both with outstanding merit to him- self and to his country. F):e not only organized the D Day ·lar.d!ngs in Europe, but was able to do what few men in this world .can; being ·both an arbitrator and able or- ganizer and successful in both, Ee molded the staffs of 21 arih'ies under one command so that there •was never one iota of complaint and if there was, he .settled it him- self to the satisfaction of all. His men not only followed him a,nd ad- mired him, -but they, along with the peoples of the world, rose in unison to praise and give their respect to him. He then retired to civilian life to become President of Colum- bia University. Suc:b, was his unique qualifications and attributes in guiding and leading the human race, that the President of the United States in 1951 was forced ·to call Eisenhower back to active service to help formulate the Euro- pean Defense Plan, (SHAPE). the Fair DeaL That he is still :holding his own, and more, with the· 82nd speaks well for his mental .endurance. As a left wing Demo- · crat his role has naturally been WILLIAM 0. DOUGLAS WILLIAM 0. DOUGLAS By Donald E. Schwartz one of opposition the greater share It is essential for the preserva- of the time, yet he -has served tion of world peace and American ·brilliantly in this capacity. His de- liberties that 1952 sees the election tense of the major planks of the of a liberal as president of the Democratic ·platform of '48 and United States. I favor the nom- other social w€lfare measures !nation by the Democratic Party (Which emerged stillborn from their and the election of Justice William popular mandate three years ago) 0. Douglas· as he is the foremost has been firm and thoughtful. Us- American liberal. ing the method of foresight in pre- We have recently seen hcl\lr out ference to the hindsight of many chances for peace are gradually of his collegues he has argued· slipping away from us and con- strongly for extensive foreign aid scquently national hysteria result- and -comprehensive Point Four. . ing which deprives us of our civil rights. Taught at Chicago Two standa.r(\s Proposed Douglas came to the Senate with I believe thut there arc two basic both a theoretical and practical standards which must be imposed knowledge of government. As a . upon every presidential possibility professor of economics -at the Uni- for 1952; a positive foreign policy 'versity of .Chicago he distinguished which will work to avoid war first himself not only as a scholar and rather than one that merely pre-. ·author but also as an aQ..visor and pares for wal', and a program of member of scores of 1mporta.nt national security at home that economic and social commissions· never loses sight of democratic for both state and federal govern-· essentials. ments. He deservingly won wide Douglas' main criticism of Am- ·acclaim for his labors. erican foreign policy, following his · He is not a man of political tradi- · travels abroad, has been that it is tion or blind party loyalty, For ex- negative. It is not making an at- ample, in 1930 when hope was dim tempt at solving the problems that indeed in the breasts of those who foment discontent and the possi- looked for domestic progress, Doug- bility of war. People in Asia, the ·las suggested the formation of a • Middle East, and Europ€ are being labor party to bring certain obvi- offered two choices: reactionary ous economic principles into reali- Communism or reactionary despot- zation on the federal level. He ism. They have turned to th~ · only abandoned the idea when Communists because they have Roosevelt's New Deal showed signs promised them the answers to th£>ir of progress in the right direction., · problems which arose under des- Douglas has nevet· felt .obliged potism · to recognize the divine right of free The United States has fougl1t enterprise when the interests of any movement that attacks the commerce have seemed to preclude established anti-Communist govern- the general welfare. Briefly, he ments. Many times these move- Positively his . admiinstration. will be credited with the reorganization of Congress, unification of the armed services,. civilian control of atomic energy in the establisl:iing of the Atomic Energy Comnmis- sion, a broad development pt·ogram of atomic energy, an increase in the number of displaced persons who may enter the United States, an extension and liberalization of the. social security program, steady advancement in the field of civil .. has favored such measures as flex- ments have not been Commur.ist or r;lghts, slum clearance, housing Generalship No Deterrellt projects, and the maintaining of rent control. Perhaps the foremost argument In foreign affairs Mr. Truruan, by these same people against Eisen- in spite of bitter criticism, in spite bower, is tl;lat the United States of much opposition and few sup- does not want a General as Presi- porters chalked up one success dent. This is sheer hypocracy, If after another. Whel'ever com:rnun• the man were just a soldier, per- ism threatened, the President met haps this argument would have it squarely. In Italy he poured in some bearing. But EisenhoweJ' is government aid to defeat the am- · a citizen of the United States first, bitions of the Communists in that diplomat second·, soldier ne:xt. His -country. When Britain was no record shows this. It is rare in- longer able to carry the burden of deed for anyone to be possessed Greek defense he formulated the with any one of these attributes. Truman doctrine giving aid to This man has all three .. Greece and Turkey. When economic conditions in all European countries threatened to rise to Communist influence Harry Truman countered boldly with the Marshall Plan and then followed it up with a long range Point 4 program. Finally, when the Russian dom- inated countries' military might threatened to become an imminent danger the President urged the United States to furnish Europe with large scale military. aid. This resulted in the Atlantic Pact. Harry Truman moved quickly · and decisively in Korea. Although now when the Korean action is tak- ing longer than expected, there have arisen many who are trying to condemn the intervention as the President's mistake, forgetting the unanimous support the country The policy of General Eisenhower is clear and understood. He stands for integrity, honesty and effective accomplishments. He realizes that the United States of America nlllst be the bulwark of the free world both in peace and in war. He is no isolationist but quite the oppo- site. He is both respected and · cherished by the people of coun- tries outside the United States. He Is an ambassador and representa- tive of th·e United States. He has taught its citiZens, served in its army, exercised the powel.' of dip- lomacy and created an interna- tional organization, all worthy of respect. ible credit control, priming the Communist inspiren, but genuine economic pump through broad fed- people's movements. This negative era! p~:ojects, rent control, heavy approach can result in nothing but excess profits taxes, and workable strength for the Soviets as· these wage and price controls. He has people will have to' turn to Russia fought against the _flagrant tax for · help. loop-holes which has put the hand A glance at Justice Douglas' of big business in the public purse. opinions on the Supreme Court He has protested against the shows him to be the leading de- methods of omnibus appropriations fender of civil liberties. Douglas and hazy details in ali sorts of ap- has taken the progressive stand propriations. (Continued on Page 4) Strong Civil Rights Record Having more regard for the Pl'in- ciples contained in the Constitution than for bombastic platitudes con- cerning its defense he has showp his respect fot' civil rights by vot- ing against the McCarran \anti- subversion\ blunderbus and by be- ing a strong advocate of FEPC. He has voted against segregation in the A1·my, His foreign policy is not signi- ficantly different from that of the internationalists of both parties, al- though he has indicated that he would probably show more respect for the rights of labor in countries that have used American aid to bolster capitalism in its most de- cadent form. He would make broad use of Point Four. True, these virtues of Douglas ·do not necessarily make for the perfect presidential candidate, and there is not even any indication that he seeks the office. We must remember, however, that there is a void to be filled and tha.t Do.ug- las is worthy in many respects. ·Eisenhower seems to be' a con- servative in domestic affairs; ruore- over his election would bring a. (Continued on Page 4) Travel Comfort PLUS SAFETY AND SAVING.$ WHEN YOU Go By Train ON YOUR HOLIDAY TRIP IT'S MORE FUNI Plan your holi- day homecoming by train with a group of friends, Enjoy real comfort ••• wonderful dining car meals ••. room to roam around and relax. YOU CAN \DIPEND on getting home as planned -and getting back after vacation as well. Day in day out the railroads offer you worry-free travel: gave him when he first ~acted. But those with foresight will commend Harry 'truman for making the move he did. GAZETTE PRESS SAVE MONEY! Get together 25 or more, all heading home in the same direction at the same time. You may return indi- Vidually. Then go GROUP COACH PLAN, and each-save up to 45% compared to one- way coach tickets! In summary it is plain to see that Harry Truman's record as President is filled with a.ucom- plishments equalled. by few others. And as: Henry Ste~le Colhlliager says, \Much of the criticism that fills. the air is directed not to Tru- man's failings but to his auc- ceaaes.'i Prf, n te rs Ask your Local Railrocul Agent Now about group orsingle raund·trip sDVingsl EASTERN RAILROADS TAFT By Foster 1'. Doane '40, '·!4, '4&-some party! After these last three Pt·e~identiaJ. de- feats, the Republican party has taken on the appeanu ce oJ some- thing the cat dra~ ged in. It bas been a moral coward and a hypo- crite. Rather than resist the tren,i to\\ai·d an omnipotent welfare state, it has meekly gone along with it. As a result of this \me- too'\ attitude, thl' Repuhlican ;party has fu!'ly merited its past defea\s at the J:Olls. It would seem that the electorate prefers to -keep a divided ahd corrupt party in power rather than elect one thact \\·allows obsequiously ir. the wake of the Democratic program. To avoid an- other campaign of sweetness ::1nd unity and an inevitable defeat, the Republican party would do well to nomina-te as their standard bearer in 1:952 the fighting conservative from Ohio~Senator Robert A. ·Ta:ft. Wide Experience His qualifications are excellert. Contrasted with the present White House incumbent. Taft has had a splendid education. (B.A. Yale 19a0, M.A. 1936; L.L.B. Farverr! 1.<>1~). ROBERT A. TAFT He has had a wng penod- of service in .public life. Taft was Assistant Counsel to the U.S. Food Adminis- tration from 1917 to 1919. He has been a member of both branches of the legislature in Ohio. Elected to the Senate in 1938, he is recognized as one of its rr.ost intelligent and hard-working members. Taft is honest and courageous in his con- victions. If nominated, Taft would wage a fighting campaign. No one is bet- ter equipped than Taft to discuss the issues of corrouption in gov- ernment <scandals in the R:8C, In• ternal Revenue, Justice Depart- (Continued on Page 4) ~----~---------~-----~ l famous Chinese and l American foods J LUM FUNG Restaurant BEST LIQUORS AND COCKTAILS ~~~1 ' • Watches, Jewelry Clocks Rep a ired • Engraving, too! Jay Jewlery C·o.

4 WALTER P. ~ElJf~ER REUTHER By Herbert L- Soehrnertz 'GOP Contender Paul Douglas (Continued from Page 3) The composition of our two major political parties contains an alarm- ing lack of liberal 1 eadership. It might even be said that they are heading towards a h:ankruptcy of· · liberalism. The main stl:ength of the military man to the presidency Democratic majorit:y i:n Congress is when most of our free allies are derived from the reaclioo.ary South. beginning to wonder about Ameri- These men, by :frequent. all!ances can militarism. At any rate, there with reactionary Repu.blicans, have seems llttle merit ln considering a been able to effectl.,.€1y- ·bl.ock all the man very seriously who has not attempts of the liberal nemocratics even spoken his mind ony many to pass the Truman. F'ah:- Deal pro- . of the vital issues of the day. Tru- gram. man, although sound in basic theory, has admlinstered too much Thus under this pr-esent al!lgn- via his cronies, and he is certainly ment .:Ve are faced 1vitl:!. a Demo- not of the ir.tellectual stature of crati~ Congress rna.<l'e up of reac- Douglas. William (not to be con- tionarics unable to put tl!rough its fused with Paul) Douglas is sorely platfol'm Ol' a Republican one needed on the Supreme Court, and which \\.'ould be completely devoid his candidacy could help ruin a of any attempt at ·libex-al legisla- sound precedent of justices remain- tion. Neither of th-ese provide an ing justices-as far removed from answer to the needs ot the nation. partisian politics as possible. The Need a. Vigoro\Us J:.[beral What is needed· Is a. vigorous liberal movement )ed b::y.a. man who Is willing to speak <JUt against the present policy and formulate one which liberals car11. l::iaelt whole- heartedly. Such a man Is Wa1ter P. Reuther. He has the backiQg- o~ the largest organized block of \'Ole rs in the nation, one which yearly is without representation, even !hough it was the major force in t•ecent Demo- cratic victories. On the vital issue of foreign policy, Reuther has spoken against the present policies, chax-ging that the United States is ofi'ering no constructive progra:rn to fill the vacuum caused .by ]leoples revolts against colonialism. Aid Peoples lii:OI'Em.ents Instead of trying te> defeat the economic and soci:al !D:equalities which are the seeds of co:mmunism by pure military means, Reauther suggests a positive .peace offensive, by working through the UN, would utilize the e>conornic r-esources of the free world in a ·<:onm:~on effort to help people help themselves. Domestically, I feel that only a breaking away by Ubu•als from the nauseous record of Taft speaks for .tself fairly wei. One of the few men of emminence who remainB is Paul Douglas. Were they to follow principle, the Democratic delegates in '52 would have a difficult time finding a better man to draft than he. present political parties, \'\'hich are ia• • •- • • • • • • • • • 'i unable or unwilling to e.nact any I 5 • U • 1 M social legislation. will :mch things I ervmg mon s en I as added social security a.:nd public I For Years 1 I works of the TV A type be legis- lated.. 1 See your,_agent on CampJJs I What I am advocating·ls not only 1 Reuther for president, lmt a whole I UNITED I new .political movenent \\\ith the 1 I labor unions as Its backbone. Such II CLEANERS a movement will offer .alternatives I to the present policies and an out-~1 TAILOR$ I let for a vast and at present dis- I 1 couraged liberal moV'ctnen.t. 1 . Phone 4-5676 I PAUL G. HOFFIIIAN- I 114 State St. near Ferry 1 · :1·------------ .... GUERRA'S PHARMACY • Fountain Prescriptions Sundries • 600 Union St., Cor. Barrett St.'' SAVE 15% &N FOOD COSTS SAVE 15% NOTT RESTAURANT AND BAR For Quick 'ra~e-out Orders Calf Sch.---6-9766 fkw, Steamed Clams \Meet a11d Eat at EDDIE'S\ 547 Nett St., opp<>siie Green Gate Schenectady, N~ Y. MEAL 'IICKETS--$5:75 for $5.00 Dixi.ecra t Leader Robert A. 'Taft <Continued -fx-om Page 3)' ment, deep free::oes, mink coats, ad nauseam) ; -the Korean war mess and the .growing mer.ace of big government {using the power of taxation to pena-lize the successful) . Despite his trernendous victory a year ago whe:;n he carried 84 out of 88 counties in Ohio, there are those who dogmatically insist that Truman's Choice? Taft ,cannot; be elected, Their coun- William 0. Douglas year, we may find, a violent reac- .. sel should be ignored, (Continued .f.rom Page a) tion t.o the dangerous trend of Am-. By nominating a regular Repub- erican politics both home· .and lican next July in Chicago, the· that ·l'egislation and court pro- abroad. 'The realities of the situ- delegates to the Republican Na-. cedure must be scrutihizeil so as ation. ·force us to see the threat of tiona:!. Convention wH! have taken not to violate human rights~ His a negative foreign policy which un- the first step in ridding the couri• dissenting opinion ih the case of' ·wittingly pvornotes war and a hys, try of the Missouri Mob and the· the . eleven convicted Comi:nltilists. terlcal <lomestic policy which is the rest of the clowns of the corrupt la~t Spring looks despairingly at. greates.t comfort to native fascists. and morally bankrupt Democratic hy<;teria which attempts to silen.ce Only a libe:ral of the stature, forth• administration. Taft is the man ail opposing_ voices. r.ightness, and po::;ition• of Justice for the job. Unless a liberal is elected next I Douglas c·an avert this consj'lquence. WHAT ARE THE ODDS? There's 1 chailce in 90 that ¥?ur next blessed event will be twms. ltS12 tol yoUll like* F~IDAY,I l By A.mid all current ov1 legiate atl writer for 1 has ·come· 1 concerning fifty years The pre louder, ani' definitely 11 and handw Back in ll Nation,\ o: year sugge: colleges VI great team one doxnin: It seems had just :b• two compaJ and Corne gleeful dlsi tha.t .this h needs, i.e., goCJd· footb could be \The val of affail:'s c those fami utterly disJ tics have riculum ax: dergraduat \This O' largely duE champion • irnpractica· this now p: between rivals. In t laid upon ing games straightfor foL\ the .sal ~hat''S 1' ma.king 1 vertibles o: up say, .. , charges of fair :play graduate 1 tude towa.: tics~\ It Is q such a re: we think Such a. 1 WCJnder VI sports for solved to c . Is ma.n preys on o are strict years tills are strang As long a tlve to be I'm afraid result in ethical a whereas claim self Whatw agreemen1 whtch '-wil instinct ii result in: ...... I : I;)·~ I : Ca I I 167 J I 1--·1 114 •

4 WALTER P. REUTHER REl'TIIEP.. By Ht•rbert L. Sd1mertz The composition of our two major political parties contains an alarm- ing lack of liberal leadership_ It might even be said that they are heading towards a bankruptcy of liberalism. The main strength of the Democratic majority in Congress is derived from the reactionary South. These men, by frequent alliances with reactionary Republicans, have been able to effectivrly blocl1 all the attempts of the libHal Democra tics to pass the Truman Fair Deal pro- gram. Thus. under this prPs£>nt allign- rnent we are facPd with a Demo- crat!~ Congr(•ss made up of reac- tionaries unablt• to put through its platform, or a Republican o~e which would be cumpletely dev01d of any attempt at liberal legisla- tion. Neither of these provide an answer to the needs of the nation. Need a Yigorous Liberal What is needed is a vigorous liberal movement led by a man who is willing to speak out against the present policy and formulate one which llberals can back whole- heartedly. Such a man is Walter P. Rc>uthcz-. He has th<? backing of the largest organizl'd block of votPrs in thE' nation one which vc>arly is without rcpres~ntation, eve'n though it was the major furce in rcC<'nt D,·nlo- cratlc victories. On the vital Issue of foreign policy, Reuther has spoken against the present policies, charging that the Unitt'<! States is offering no constructive program tu fill the vacuum causl'd by peoples revolts against colonialism. Aid PeoplPs ::\Iovcments Instead of trying to defeat the economic and social inequalities which arc the seeds of communism by pure military means, Reauther suggests a positive peace offensive, by working through the U:-.1, would utilizt'\ thP ~~cononlic rc.sourrr~s of· the free world in a common effort j to hdp people hdp thrmsl'in's. I GOP Contender Comdr. Harold Stassen Paul Douglas (Continued from Page 3) military man to the presidency when most of our free allies are beginning to wonder about Arneri- car. militarism. At any rate, there scC'm:o; little merit in considering a man very seriously who has not even spoken his mind ony many <Jf th<? vital issues of the day. Tru- man, although sound in basic rheory, has admiinstered too much via bis cronies, and he is certainly not of the lr. tellectual stature of Dot:glas. VVi!liam <not to be con- fused with Paul> Duugla:o Is sorely :IeedC'd on the Supreme Court, and his candidacy could help ruin a ;;ound precedent of justices remain· ing justices-as far removed from partisian politics as possible. The nauseous record of Taft speaks for .tself fairly 1vel. One of the few :ne n of emrr In ence ~ ho remair.s is Pa1tl Douglas. ·were thry to follow pl'inriplt•, the DPmO('l'atir d£'1Pg!lt£'s in '52 would have a difficult time finding a bette\r man to draft than he. Domestically, I fed that only a 1 breaking- away Ly liberals from the I. pr~scnt pulitical parti..,~, \\'luch ar~ 1 a• • • • -·--- •,..- • -, unable ur unwilling tu enact any 1 5 • U • • M social legislation. will such things I ervmg mon s en I as added social security and pub~lc I For years I works of the TV A type be legis- 1 lated. 1 1 See your. agent on Campus I What I am adv?catlng is not only 1 Reuther for president, but a whole I UNITED I new political mo\'enwnt with the 1 • labor unions as its backbone. Such 1 CLEANERS I a mm·ement will offer alternatives I to the pn•scnt pollcies and an ol!t·/1 TAILORS I let for a vast and at present dis· I 1 couraged llbet·al movement. 1 Phone 4-5676 I PAUL G. HOFFMAN ; I 114 State St. near Ferry 1 I r,•·~-=·=·=-~-=-==-;::-=-=-==-=-=,·• I GUERRA•s PHARMACY • Fountain Prescriptions Sundries • oO() Union St., Cor. Barrett St. SAVE 15% ON FOOD COSTS SAVE 15\/o NOTT RESTAURANT AND BAR For Quick Take-out Orders Call Sch.-6-9766 Raw, Siearnecl Clams \Meet and Eat at EDDIErrs•• 547 Nott St., opposite Green Gate Schenectady, N. Y. MEAL TICKETS--$5.75 for $5.00 Dixiecrat Leader Truman's Choice? Hat in GOP Ring Backing Ike FRED. M. VINSON Robert A. Taft I Taft cannot be elected. Their coun-1 William 0. Douglas year, we may find a violent reac- <Contlnued from Page 3) sel should be ignored, <Continued from Page 3) tlon to the dangerous trend of Am- By nominating a regular Repub- erican politics both home and: ment, deep freezes, mink coats, ad lican next July in Chicago, the that legislation and court pro- abroad. The realities of the situ- nauseam); the Korean war mess ·delegates to the Republican Na- cedure must be scrutinized so as ation. force us to see the threat of and the growing merace of big tiona! Convention will have talten not to violate human rights. His a negative foreign policy which an- government (using the power of the first step in ridding the coun· dissenting· opinion in the case of wittingly promotes war and a hys~ taxation to penalize the successful), try of the Missouri Mob and the the eleven convicted Communists terical cloinestic :policy which is the Despite his tremendous victory rest of the clowns of the corrupt last Spring looks despairingly at greatest comfort to native fascists. a year ago when he carried 84 out and moral•Iy bankrupt Democratic hy~teria which attempts to siler.ce Only a liberal of the stature, forth- of 88 counties in Ohio, there are administration. Taft is the man 1111 opposing , voices. ri~;·htness, and position· of Justice those who dogmatically insist that for the job. I Unless a liberal is elected next I Douglas can avert this consj'lquence. WHAT ARE THE ODDS? . 90 that YOlJr nex.t • 1 chance m r There s 'II be twins. blessed event WI ',:.· : .. :j( HERE'S PROD(tnai ~~~~;t ~iy.~t~~~~fiit;h .. . drilth baerj 12 UUt i)f evert: iQ WJi~:; ta~t~d ~Gilf:<!6tllr lllltflll I.Je5r-tlian ~ver befor~ in Schaefer's 110~yearJtistoey, · The Jt'. & M. Schaefer Brewing Co., N.Y. ver fourteen, the odds are If you are o . able to read. 30 to 1 that you are FRIDAY, B Amid al' current O' legiate a writer f0r has come c0ncernin1 fifty year: The pr louder, ar defLnitely and hand' Back in Nation,\ year sugg c01leges great tear one domi' It seem: had just I two comp: and Corr gleeful dil that this. needs, i.e good foot could be \The ve of affairs those fan utterly di: tics have riculum a dergradm \This largely dl champion impractic this now between rivals. In laid UpOil ing game straightfc for the s: That's making vertibles up say, · charges ( fair pla~ graduate tude tow tics.\ It is such a r we thinl Such a wonder sports fo solved to Is man preys on are stri' years thi are stror As long tive to 1 I'm afral result iiJ ethical whereas claim se What agreeme: which \ instinct result in ·--- 1 : D I I : Cc I I 167 I , __ _ -

F~IDAY. NOVEMBE\- 30. 1951 5 :Strong M erme.n Face R·ochester Garnet Versus Panthers Opens With Green Squad ; Looik for Ninth Str,aight Victory By Bill Mohrmann The Union College basketball team opens a nineteen game schedule this Tuesday when they face Middlebury Co1lege at Middlebury, Vermont. Looking forward to a suc- cessful year the Garnet five has both height and speed, bat ' By Irwin Barg ~ --· --~~------ :By John Kentledy Ray Mullane starts his fifth season as coach. of the Union swimming team tomorrow aftemoon when the Garnet mer- ! • men meet a visiting Rochester team in Foote Memorial Pool, ; at 3:30. Union should not have much trouble in extending its winning skien to nine vict01ies, after closing last season ·with ·sensational 9 and 1 recerd. Amid all the discussion about the: Maybe Best Ever current ove!' emphasis on. lntercol-; legiate athletics an .enterprising 1 writer for the AP newsWire service bas ·come up with an old editorial> concer'ning this same matter o-veri The Union coach feels that ·lhis dltlons give the squad bette1· hal- year's squad Is his strongest, .and ance and greatei· .depth than the probably the best in the history 1950-51 team. fifty years ago. of the school. Practice has been going .right on schedule, with ever'y member of the team in top shape. The present uproar is mucb1 Mullane is very optomistic as. prac- louder, and the gate receipts arE' Uce times show that the team is definitely great!lr, but the moaning; '\red hot\ for. the season open.er. and ·handwriting are still the same.i Added depth in ,some promising Back in 1899 the periodical, \The: sophomores and freshmen brightens Nation,\ on November 2 of tha:t; the outlook for the year, in addle year suggested that pretty, soon aU tion to the return of .eight letter· colleges would· soon have sucb; men. great teams that there could be n()• Three of the college record hold· one dominant figure. ers are among the returning swim-. It seems that Princeton and YalEi mers. John Duffy, a senior, is. be- had just :been horribly defeated ,b;y' ginning his third season. und.er two com}la:rative upstarts, Columbia; Mullane. He is the current holder and (Jornell. The \Nati()n\ in :a;, of :the 220 and 440 yard records, gleeful display of hand rubbing said: which he .set last year. Two .of the that .this is just what the !iituatiom· three men on the undefeate<!, rae- needs. Le., more upstarts playing ord· holding medley relay team will good. iootbaU so that no one team be back. Bob Dorse, a junior, was could be permanently dominant.: anchor man and Werner Reiners, another junior, was the back- \The value of the resulting state~ stroker. Reiners also set the 200 of affairs can only be estimated 'PY yard backstroke and 5(} yard· free- those familiar with the false and, style records last season. utterly disproportionate place atllle-. ~lany Veterans tics have had in • the college cur· Seniors Roger Hancher and riculum and the minds of the UD.· Gerry Geismar, juniors Dick Starlt, dergraduates.\ Howie Kloth, and Phil Metzger are 19 Meets .Agaiu The mermen win participate in ten dual meets again. The only new opponent for the season is the Coast Guard Academy. Boston Uni- versity and the U. of :Massachusetts have been dropped :from the sched-' ule. Mullane's lllen will face Rochester twice, :Hamilton twice, and RPI twice, :J>esides Williams, Fordbam, City C<lllE)ge, and 'the Coast,. Guard Academy. Peculiar scheduling gives the mermen .two separate \seasons\ with four meets :before the Chrilihnas recess and the other six !11. February- a.nd March. Coach Mullane p<>ints to the Fordham, Williams, and City meets as the \big\ ones. The Ephmen. handed Union their only setback at the beginning of last season in a thrilling meet tllat saw several new pool records •set. The Ford- ham Rams feU victim. to .the Dutch- men In New Y'ork City, but they have a fast improving team which could cause trouble, City ha.s also been strengthening themselves since they ·were beaten last year.· \This overestimation has bee:n the ()ther lettermen returning. Mul· largely due to the desire to becom.e lane will also count heavily on Intramural· N.o ... ·es champion over all other teams,-'l'h.e: sophs Dick Harman and Art Fink. a; impracticability of accomplishing Chris Muhlert and John Shet'Wood, This week marked the opening this now paves the way for contests from the freshmen ranks, mig-ht be .of the winter intramural· .Jeagues between neighbors and natural used If necessary. in both basketball and volleyball. rivals. In this, less emphasis will be A new event has been added to In the basketball set-U.P there are laid upon success than upon play- dual meet competition in the form three leagues and . here are the re- ing games in a manly, honest alld of a 150 yard individual medley. .sults: BEU ove:r Sigma Phi, 30-27, straightiorward gentlemanly way, Tomorrow will be the first time Sig Chi over ASOE by forfeit, En- for' the .sake of sport and exet'cise~\ that Union swimmers compete in gineers beat Psi '[J 32-27, the Betas That''S what the editorial says, that event and either Hartman or lost to D Chi 2it-21, Chi Psi de- ma.klng no references .. to con· M:uhlert will probably have the dis- feated Phi Gam 32-13, and the vertibles or bank accounts. It winlls. tinction of setting a new college DU's beat Phi Sigma Ka,ppa by np say, \We shall hear very Jew record. Hancher, Metzger, or pos- the score of 41\l.4. charges of professionalism. and UD· sibly Sherwood are the likely I r.;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;. iair play the minute the under- divers for tomorrow's opener: Han- 11 graduate begins to take this atti- cher began his career at Union as tud!l towards intercollegiate athle- a freestyler, then backstroker; be- tics.\ fore becoming one of Mullane's divers. It is quite Interesting to see such a re:port on a situation that we think Is especially our owr~. Such a similarity leads one to wonder whether the problem of sports for sports sake will ever be solved to everyone's satisfaction, . Is man naturally, an animal that preys on others in the interests that are strictly his own? Over the years this o!Union has results that are strong evidence In Its suppod. As long as the game is so lucra- tive to both players and colleges, I'm afraid that the competition will result in practices considered un· ethical and dishonest l:Jy many whereas the \<ipportun:ists'.~ will claim self-defense as their m()tive. What we need are not rules and agreements, but rattier a , systoon wblch ·will canalize this }lredato::ry instmct into those efforts that w:tll result in :fair play by all. Duffy in Distances Once again, Duffy will be the big man in the distance events. He broke his own records several times during the past yeal', appear- Ing in botlt the 220 and 440 In most of the meets. Bob Diamond, holder of the breaststroke records, is the only letterman who graduated in June. In addition to Geismar, Dick Hartman, Art Fink, Don Hor- ton, and Cris Muhlert will be used to fill in for Diamond. Howie Kloth, Werner Reiners, and sophomore JQhn Bird wi11 divide the backstroking duties be- tween themselves. Mullane plans to use Bob Dorse and Dick Sta,rk for much of his short distan'ce work. Dick Land, another sopho- more, may also be used in some sprint events. Guy Cooper and .Tim Farrell w!ll also see action: in the distance events. The new ad- ~--------------~----------~-- 1 I : QISTINCTIVE M'EN'S WEAR: I I :Capital Men's Sh.op, Inc.: I I I 167 Jay Street Schenectady· • N. Y. I I I ~-- ----------.,. Iiiii---- 11!11------- ,J ATM. B. G.-aubarts & Sons We Repair •.. Yo11r WATCHES .~ . VICTORIA Restaurant Speciollzlng in ltalie~n Foods Jay Streei (Cor. Union) Announcement is lacking in experience-. Tme .Athletic Department has :an- ·nc:>uoced the following policy .for ticket allocation ·dur-ing all home baslc.etbaU games: sessions in the gym since the re- Slly on Veterans turn from Thanks£iving recess and . Because the gymnasium seats but With four returning veterans of had been holding informal nightly 924 persons, it wi11 be necessary last _year's team and severa.l bright sessions prior to that time. The prospects to strc:ngthc:n the .squad,· team as a whole has been shaping .to a;:pportion the tickets for games In accordance with past practice Coach Pete Nislad has hig:h hopes up well despite Its limited prac- w-·hieh is as follows: of field.Jng a strong team. For'mint, tices. Inexperier.ce will be the the nucleus of the squad will be main drawback but the squad has ~529i for students Bob Murray, Gene Schwa~tzmar.,. height and speed which will be in 200 for students and their dates Jerry O'Loughlin, and Glenn Kinns. their favor. Murray, Kinns, and 30 for students and their wives All four men saw action la.st year, Zeph are all six footers; Bat- 7CHor faculty Murray doing some fine :rebound kiewicz, Whitman, and Sutka are 100 for ~he public work and shooting, Kinns pacing six two; while McSweeney is a J!lmr.ther qualifications with re- the offense, while Schwartzma:n towering 6' 5\. spec-t to this ticket allocation are and O'Loughlin saw intermittent as follows: action in the guard spots. 1. No<l· reservations will- ·be accepted Missing from last year's team ·or- tickets sold prior to any of are Spence Warnick, who is still th!.e games. in school but is unable to ]llay be- cause of injuries receiveci in an 2. Ticket distribution and sale will auto accident last winter, and 1 begin at 6:45 p.m. when there graduates Dick Davis, :Jlm Car- 'are ]lreliminary games starting michael, Ray Pomeroy, Cookie at 7:00 p.m. (These dates are Sherwin, Bob Faubel, and Frank F-ebruary 6, 16, 20, 22, and 27). Chi1lrud. ·o:n t.he other nights (December 8, 15. and 17) when there is only Two members of the undefeated ~ooe game, the ticket office will freshman team of 1949-50 will be ·open. at 7:45 p.m. back in action this year. :Marv Zeph, Ineligible last year, and 3. Students will enter and obtain George Batkiewicz, who <did not th!eir ticjr.ets at the North end of play last year, are expected to give .th!.e· lower ·balcony and upon pre- added punch to the squad: Coming ·sentation of their Student Ath- up from last year's freshr:nen are 'leotic Ticket will be issued. their Bob Gilfillan, .leading scoring in a 0 WN game ticket ONLY. It will few contests last year, and play- · N'O'I' ·be possible for one student maker Jerry Barandes. to obtain tickets for an entire gm:ou 11 , Manr Frosh Up The freshman eligibility :rule has 4.. .Students with their dates, or given Nistad some additio:nal per- wives, :faculty members, and the sonnet to l'ound out a fift!;len man patblic will enter :and obtain squad. Frank Parisi and Ted Rein- their tickets at the South ~nd hard from Mont Pleasant High, o:l: the lower balcony. .,. Paul Whitman of Troy, Dale fi.. Ticket allotments in the various Christie from Bayshore, Joe Butka categories will be held until S:OO from Poughkeepsie, Bill Constan-. p_m.. after which time unissued tall;.es, and big Ed McSweeD.ey from tlckets will be pooled and issued Draper High are the freshmen n.ow o:ll' sold, on a first come, first listed with the varsity. serve· basis. Nistad has been holding practice Stop By - Make Your Own Sundae or Banana Split Attention Hous·e S+ewards!! P.or Economical Desserts-lh Gal. Pkgs. All F.lavors-$ 1.00 Creamy Double Dip Frosts - 30c Free Delivery on Orders for I Gal. or More 922 Nott Terrace · One Block From Campus .f) Ystep I for in Arrow Formal Shirts step out in style and - SChedule Lengthened The schedule for this year llas been extended and includes three new opponents. C.C.N.Y., Hostra, and Worcester Poly has been added, while Wesleyan has been dropped. The first home contest will be against Williams on Decem- ber 8th. On December 15th, Mc- Gill University will make their first appearance on the Union court. The schedule to date: Dec. 4 Middlebury away 8 Williams home 11 Amherst away 15 McGill home 17 St. Lawrence home 21 Hofstra awa'l{ 22 Brooklyn Poly away .Jan. 5 CCNY away 8 Champlain away 9 Vermont away Feb. 2 Rochester away 6 Hamilton away 9 Stevens away 16 RPI home 20 Trinity home 22 Worcester Poly home 27 Hobart home 29 Hamilton away Mar. 8 RPI away GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACI,JLTY ·Patton & Hall X-RAY FITTING 245 State St.-Since 1895 Your JEWEI.RY. Your SILV-ER Arrow Formal Shirts comfort! Utmost eare is teiken by skilled workers to give you enry reason to be pleased. -Watch&s and clocks cleaned and repaired -New watch cases and bands -New watch crystals inserted -Pearls and beads restrung -Jewelry and sliver replated and repaired H\\\\1 8~a~'i (j\\W I JA~ Sl.J[W(L{iS ••SERVING SCHENECTADY FOR 3 GENERATIONs-• You really hreatlte easy in Arrow formal shi):ts • , • tkey're designed for extl'rr. comfort. :Standouts for aty'le, too. Be sure to sEe these two f~vorite '~tux\ shirts. at your Arrow dealer's in .time ·for holiday partiea. .brow \Skoreharrn\ •$6.~() (left, abovo) 'idrrow \Kirk $6.5D (right, ab~11sJI ARROw SHIRTS & TIES UNDERWEAR • IIANDKERCI:IIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS Say goo d·hye .to those \fo~alshirt\ blues! You'll he at ease all evening long in these Arr~ shirts • • • ARROW \KIRK\: Fu:lJ.. dress shirt with the proper 2·etud front, starched pitmllll bosom and cuffs. $.6.50 ARROW \SHOREHAM\; \Tux\ shirt with medium-point collar, semi·atarcbed pleated bosom. French eutfi. - $6.50 NUSBAUM'S 447451 STATE STREET .._ _____ fOil ARROW UIIIIV!RSITY ITYLII -----....1 _ ....

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER ~0. 1951 Strong Mermen Face Rochester Look for Ninth Straight Vi.ctory By Irwin Barg ~--- Ray l\IuHane starts his fifth season as coach of the Union A swimmin;g tean1 tomorrow aftemoon, when the Garnet mer-.. UR011llCe'IReOt men meet a visiting Rochester team in Foote Memorial Pool . t 3 ·30 U · . 1· ld . t ·h . l t . bl · . . ' The A..thlet1c Department has an- ~ . . . . mo;n s lOU • no . · av~ muc 1 ·lOU .e m extendmg nounced the following pulicy for 1ts wmnmg s·kwn to mne vrctones, after closmg last season I ticket. aBoca:tion during all home By John Kenmedy Amid aU the discusslen about the current over emphasis on intercol· legiate athletics an enterprising writer for the AP newswire service has come up with an old editorial c<Jnce.tning this same matter over fifty years ago. with sensational 9 and 1 record. I basketball games: 1\layl.Je Best Ever <®!----- ----- _____ .. _____ Because the gymnasium seats but The Union coach feels that this dltlons give the squad better bu>l- 924 persons, it will be necessary year's squad is his strongest, and ance a:nd• greater depth than the 1 to !l:J>portion the tickets ~or games probably the best in the history . 1950-51 team. In accordance with past practice of. the _school. Practice ~as been 19 Meets Again which is as follows: gomg right on schedu~e, w1th every The mermen wtll participate in 524 for students member ?f the team m top shape. ten dual meets again. The only 1 200 for students and their dates The present uproar is much ~ulla?-e IS very optomistlc as pra~- new opponent for the season is the ·30 for students and their wives louder, and the gate receipts are ~.ICe tlm~? show that th_ e team IS Coast Guard Academy. Boston Uni- TO for faculty def1nitely greater, but the moaning red hot for the season opener. versity and the u of Massachusetts 100 for the public and handwriting are stiH the same. Added depth in some pr~mising have been dropped from the sched-· Back in 1899 the periodical, \The sophomores and freshmen brightens ule. Mullane's men will face Nation,\ on November 2 of that the outlook for the year, in add!- Rochester twice Hamilton twice year suggested tha;t pretty soon all tion to the return of eight letter- and RPI twice,' besides Williams,' Fmrtiter qualifications with re- spect to this ticket allocation are as foH()WS: colleges would soon have such great teamr. that there could be no men. Fordham, City College, and the Three of the college record hold- Coast. Guard Academy. Peculiar one dominant figure. th t ers are among e re urning swim- scheduling gives the mermen two 1. N<» reservations wm be accepted or tickets sold prior to any of the g-ames. It seems that Princeton and Yale mers. John Duffy, a senior, is be- separate \seasons\ with four meets had just been horribly defeated by ginning his third season under before the Christmas recess and 2. two comparative upstarts, ColUillbia Mullane. He is the current holder the other siX in February and and Cornell The \Nation\ in a of the 220 and 440 yard records, March. gleeful display of hand rubbing sa.id which he set last year. Two of the· Coach Mullane points to the that this is just what the situation three men on the undefeatec, rec- Fordham, Williams, and City meets needs, i.e., more upstarts playing ord holding medley relay team will as the \big\ ones. The Ephrnen good football so that no one tea.in be back. Bob Dorse, a junior, was handed Union their only setback could be permanently domiiii\nt. anchor man and Werner Reiners, at the beginning of last season in another junior, was the back- a thrilling meet that saw several \The value of the resulting state stroker. Reiners also set the 200 new pool records set. The Ford- of affairs can only be estimated by yard backstroke and 50 yard free- ham Rams fell victim to the Dutch- 3, those familiar with the false and style records last season. men in New York City, but they utterly disproportionate place athle- Many Veterans have a fast improving team which tics have had in the college cur- ld t riculum and the minds of the u.n- Seniors Roger Hancher and cou cause rouble. City has also Gerry Geismar, juniors Dick Stark, been strengthening themselves dergraduates.\ Howie Kloth, and Phil Metzger are since they were beaten last year. \This overestimation has been the other lettermen returning. Mul- O>--- largely due to the desire to become lane will also count heavily on Intramural Notes champion over all other teams. ·The sophs Dick Harman and Art Fink. impracticability of accomplishing Chris Muhlert and John Sherwood, this now paves the way for contests from the freshmen ranks, might be between neighbors and natural used if necessary. rivals. In this, less emphasis will be A new event bas been added to laid upon success than upon :play- dual meet competition in the form ing games in a manly, honest and of a 150 yard Individual medley. straightforward gentlemanly way, Tomorrow will be the first time for the sake of sport and exercise.\ that Union swimmers compete In that event and either Hartman or That's what the editorial says, Muhlert will probably have the dis- making no references to con- vertibles or bank accounts. It wln.ds tinction of setting a new college This week marked the opening 4, of the winter intramural leagues in both basketball and volleyball. In the basketball set-up there are three leagues and here are the re- sults: BEU over Sigma Phi, 30-27, Sig Chi over ASCE by forfeit, En- 5. gineers beat Psi U 32-27, the Betas lost to D Chi 23-21, Chi Psi de- feated Phi Gam 32-13, and the DU'a beat Phi Sigma Kappa by the score of 41-14. Ticket distribution and sale will begin at 6:45 p.m. when there are preliminary games starting at 7:00 p.m. (These dates are Februa:ry 6, 16, 20, 22, and 27). O!ll the other nights (December 8, 15, and 17) when there is only on-e game, the ticket of~ice will op-en at 7:45 p.m. St!.ldeints will enter and obtain their tlcltets at the North end of the lower balcony and upon pre- sentation of their Student Ath- letic Ticket will be issued their OWN game ticket ONLY. It will NOT be possible for one student to obtain tickets for an entire gr<Jup. Students with their dates, or wi.ves, faculty members, and the p11,blic will enter and obtain th-eil' tickets at the South end of the lower balcony. ' Ticket allotments in the various ca.tegories will be held until 8:00 p.:r::n, after which time unissued tickets will be pooled and issued or- sold, on a first come, first serve basis. 5 Garnet Versus Panthers Opens With Green Squad By Bill Mohrmann The Union Col'lege basketball team opens a nineteen game schedule this Tuesday when they face 1\Iiddlebury College at :.\liddlebur,r, \'rrmont. Looking fcH'\\'ard to a suc- cessful year the Garn.et five has both height and speed, but is lacking iN experience. sessions in thP gym since the re- Shy on Veteran~< turn from Thanks~ iving recess and With foU·l' returning veter·ans of had been i1olding informal nightly last year's team and several bright ~e::;~wn~ pt iur to that time. The pro>~pect>~ tu ~tr>·ngtlh'n th .. squad. t\am as a whole has b<'l'n shnping Coach Pete Nistad has high hope,; up well dt:cpiic Its limited prac- of fteldlng a otrung teu.m. Futtlltn;.. tices. lnexperierce will bo the the nucleus of the squad wilt be main drawback but the squad has Bob ::O.Iurray, Gene Schwa~t2m<1r., hdght and speed which will be In Jerry O'LCJughHn, and Glenn Kinns. their favor. Murray, Kinns, and All four nwn saw action last ycnr, · Zeph ar~ an six: footers; Bat- ::O.Iurray doing some fim rPbGund kiewicz, Whitman, and Sutka are wurk and shooting, Kinns pacing six: two; while McSweeney is a the offense, while Schwartzman towering 6' 5\. and O'Loughlin saw intermittent action in the guard spots. Missing from last year's team are Spence Warnick, who is still in school but is unable to play be- cause of injuries received in an auto accident last winter, and graduates Dick Davis, Jim Car- michael, Ray Pomeroy, Cookie Sherwin, Bob Faubel, and Frank Chillrud. Two members of the undefeated freshman team of 1949-50 will be back in action this year. Marv Zeph, ineligible last year, and George Batkiewicz, who did not play last year, are expected to give added punch to the squad:. Coming up from last year's freshmen are Bob Gilfillan, leading scoring in a few contests last year, and play- maker Jerry Barandes. Many Frosh Up The freshman eligibility rule has given Nistad some additional per- sonnel to round out a fifteen man squad. Frank Parisi and Ted Rein- hard from Mont Pleasant High, Paul Wbitman of Troy, Dale Christie from Bayshore, Joe Butka from Poughlteepsie, Bill Constan- tak.es, and big Ed McSweeney from Draper High are the freshmen r.ow listed with the varsity. Nlstad has been holding practice Sclledule Lengthened The schedule for this year has been extended and includes three new oppor.ents. C.C.N.Y., Host:ra, and Worcester Poly has been added, while Wesleyan has ·been dropped. The first home contest will be against VViHiams on Decem- ber 8th. On December 15th, Mc- Gill University will make their fi:rst appearance on the Union court. The schedule to date: Dec. 4 8 11 15 17 21 22 Jan. 5 8 9 Feb. 2 6 9 16 20 22 27 29 Mar. 8 Middlebury Williams Amherst :McGill St. Lawrence Hofstra Brooklyn Poly CCNY Champlain Vermont Rochester Hamilton Stevens RPI Trinity Worcester Poly Hobart Hamilton RPI away home away home home awa~ away away away away away away away home home home home away away up say, \\Ve shan hear very few record. Hancher, Metzger, or pos- cb.arges of professionalism and un- sibly Sherwood are the likely fair play the minute the Ullder- divers for tomorrow's opener: Han- graduate begins to take this atti- cher began his career at Union as tude towards intercollegiate athle- a freestyler, then backstroker, be- tics.\ fore becoming one of Mullane's STEWART'S GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY divers. It is quite interesting to see Duffy in Distances such a report on a situation that Once again, Duffy will be the we think is especially our own. big man In the distance events. He Such a similarity leads one to broke his own records several wonder whether the problem of sports for sports sake will ever be times during the past year, appear- ing in both the 220 and 440 in most solved to everyone's satisfaction. · of the meets. Bob Diamond, holder Is man naturallY. an animal that of the breaststroke records, Is the preys on others in the interests that only letterman who graduated in are strictly his own? Over the June. In addition to Geismar, years this opjnlon bas results that Dick Hartman, Art Fink, Don Hor- are strong evidence in its support. ton, and Cris Muhlert will be used As long as the game is so lucra- to fill in for Diamond. tive to both players and colleges, Howie Kloth, Werner Reiners, I'm afraid that the competition will and sophomore John Bird wlll result In practices considered un- divide the backstrolring duties be- ethical and dishonest by many tween themselves. Mullane plans whereas the \opportunists'!_ will to use Bob Dorse and Dick Sta_rk claim self-defense as their motive. for much of his short distance What we neecl are not rules and work. Dick Land, another sopho- a.greements, but rather a. system more, may also be used in some which will canalize thls predatory sprint events. Guy Cooper and instinct into those efforts that will Jim Farrell will also see action in result in fair play by all. the distance events. The new ad- ·---------------------------~ I I 1 D. ISTINCTIVE MEN'S WEAR 1 I I I I : Capital Men's Shop, Inc. : I I I 167 Jay Street S~henectady, N. Y. I I I '---------------------------~ AT M. B. Graubarts & Sons We Repair ••• Your WATCHES Your JEWELRY, Your SILVER Utmost c:ar-e is taken by skilled workers +a give you every reason to be pleased. -Watches and clocks cleaned and repaired -New watch cases and bands -New watch crystals inserted -Pearls and beads restrung -Jewelry and silver replated and repaired ~\' 'd~0~'1J {)\\ \\\\j JAV Sl. )lW(l{lS \SERVING SCHENECTADY FOR 3 GENERATIONS\ ,c) . VICTORIA Restaurant Speeiaflzing In Italian Foods Jay Street (Cor. Union) Stop By- Make Your Own Sundae or Banana Split AHention House St-ewards!! For Economical Desserts-V2 Gal. Pkgs. All Flavors-$1.00 Creamy Double Dip Frosts - 30c Patton & Hall X:-RAY FITTING 245 Sta.te St.-Since 1891S Free Delivery on Orders for I Gal. or More Mot+ Terrace One Block From Campus 122 *~ o •• ••• · all dressed up someplace to Arrow Formal Shirts You really hreatl:l.e -easy in Arrow formal shirts •• , th-ey're designed for extra comfort. Standouts for atyle, too. Be sure t<» see these two favorite \tux\ shirts at y~>ur Arrow dealer's in time fo:r lt.oliday partie&. .Arrow \Sh01:ehmn\ (left, al7ove) ~rrow\Kirk\ (right, above) $6.50 $6.&0 ARROw SHIRTS & TIES UNDERWEAR • HANDKEitCiiiEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS step for in Arrow Formal Shirts step out in style and comfort! Say good-bye to those\formalshirt\ blues! You'll be at ease all evening long in these Arrow shirts • , • ARROW \KIRK\: Full dress shirt with the proper 2·stud front, starched pique bosom and cufis. $6.50 ARROW \SHOREHAM\1 ''Tux\ shirt with medium-point collar, semi·atarched pleated bosom. Fre11ch cuffs. - $6.50 NUSBAUM'S 447-451 STATE STREET fOR ARROW UNIVERSITY STYLES ------..1

6 FRIDAY; NOV~MBER 30, 1951 Free Cuts · Mat.riculation at Unio11 Cal .Antilla Says Finns Is a Stu·· dy ·;n ·R·ed· I .. '1-;Jk·· · ReJ· ect Reds, Fear War l>onald R. Ackerblom, Irwin 8.~·---~---------- \ 1'(/ · · . Ba11g, Joseph A. Barone, A. Robert By Herb Gusto11 By EUot \Loshak Beck, Leigh Benner, Leslie H. liam R. Stoll, Roger w. Story, My secret \\\'ssi'on· fo· r the week· was to fi'n· d out ·all about· Cale:vi Antilla ts known to everyone on the campus as C::tl. Bernstein, Norman C. Blais, Rich- ~ackson S. Stroud, Richard J. Sui- uu . f ard J. Blum, Richard s. Borst, Ar- hvan. expenses at Union College since way back when the Dutch- He is the HELP student from Finland and is the gu.est o thur s, Brenner, Donald M. Brover- Eng Heng Tan, Anthony P. Tar- men chased Indians instead of Skidmore dates. With the help Delta Upsilon fr~teTilit;v. Cal js a v~i'J;\ friendl~ fellow a~d man, Frederick F. Cannan, Domi- taglla, Willard G. Taylor, Benjamin of Bursar Holmes and Miss T·ravis, I located my otjective we ~pent an &11J<ef\able half hour talkil!g t~ h1m an~ qls- nick F. Carbone, Paul P. Carbone, B. Thelin, John F. Thomas, Jr., in th, e b_asement ·of the Administration BuildinO'. Seeurely·,.cu.· ssmg many tO}>lCS. from th.·e world SituatiOn to Fmrush Clayton G. Carter, David T. Case, Horace S. Van Voast, nr, John C. t h 6 · ] . Arthur F. Casey, Paul s. Cassedy, Walsh, David A. Weichert, Daniel• res 1ng m a uge safe were scores and scads of college hul- glr s. · · · . Bradford H. Cauvet, Robert L. L. Weiner, Delbert Wemple, Jr.,· letins, dating from the early 1880~s. After piaying lluman Lives fu .Helsinki . nish. Communist· Party polled -only Chesanow, Paul F. Chrystal, Gar- Martin s. Werman, Edwin H. vacuum cleaner Iong enough to get .()ff most of :the dust, I. 20% of the vote. rett C. Clough, Allan I. Cohen, Ar-. White, Jr., Edwar~l M. Wittekind, t d t th t t · rt t · Cal is .twenty-two years old and th E · urne o a mos 1mpo an 1tem, money, of the modern. cla 1 ·ms Helsinki, the F'innish capi- Fear War · ur . Cohen, Jay N. Cohn, Guy William G. Witzigman, Van E.· 11 t · · f k · F. Cooper, Bradford K. Coryell, Wood, John D. Woodberry, Paul CO . ege i'lVlUffi 0 money t. mar S, and maidens. tal, as hi!3 birthplace and home. He The Finns are ;ilraid .of war and Leslie F. Couch, PhiUp M. Currier, J. Woods, Alan Young, Franl;t E. Next to :Nothing \ • · · attended grammar '~chool, high welJ. remember the miseries: of the Jr Y U J D ld H Z Back in 1882, the 483 men of. , · school,· and a. y(lar 'i)-f business col\ Russo-Finnish war. of 1939\1940. . o ng, r., ona • enger, I closed the last of .t:he bnlletms ,. · · · · Richard A. DeMott, Frederick George J. Zervas, Orazlo R. Zum- Union College payed the enormous , . '• lege in Finland :befo :ve· •he came to: For these reasons, the Finnish b sum of $280 a year for their total put them ail back ·In the safe,, America under 1:lre :pt!C>g.ram of people don't talk much about war Devan, Foster P. Doane, III, Wil- 0 · where some day another Concordy *I d -5 000 expenses. Tu1'tion ran •40 a term, . , ' . . ' . ' Higher Educatic.n. 'f<Jr Lasting in the earnest hop· e that guns, bat- liam E. Doll, Thomas F. Donlon, n ex · ~ reporte1 wlll perhaps fmd a. dusty <lind board, a rip roaring $3 a week. • · · ' · . . Peace. All of his edt.tcatl\on iu Fin-· tlesi and bombs are things of the M. Peter Dreyfuss, John H. Duffy, Special Student The board figure leads one to be- Issue ·of the 1951 college bulletm, · land toolt place ln B:el.sin,ki except past. They are not unaware, how- Peter H. Edinger, Raymond J. John A. Dillingham. lieve Union men were not in the ~lance through Its pages, ~n.d s~y, for a year during the :b. eight ·of the· ever, of the very serious nature of Fabian, Lloyd Fallowes, James· A. The students below attained an habit of drinking ot·ange juice (at · Gosh, only $SOO a yea.r,tult~on, Russo-Finnish Wal', the w0tid situation ·and are ready Farrell, Alan S. Fish bone, John H. averag· e of S, or abQVe, but are not· 15 I ) , h t I had to hurry .upstatrs; 1t was · - · . d t , Fisher, Jr., Arthur F. Flatley, II, i th 15 h 1 d f c a g ass m t e mornings a almost lunch .time, and I had to Cal said that high ·s~hool· in· Fin- to o an.y hlng necessary to p11o, Leroy E. Foley, Jr., Donalcl G. Fors- carry ng e · ours requ re or 1 882 · cash that check. land is much ·hardet• than it is teet their freedom and preserve 'be:rg, G~rald G. Foster, S. Bruce ~u~~~~;c~~d~:~eJ'c~e~:e ex-. • At few ybeatrts latteti't_in ld889, thdings o . here. Business a.ltld technical col- peCacel. 'I b dl Franklin Edward E F ema go even e er, u IOn \ roppe to And·re ·Tr. o·cm·e \\ leges in Finland a.re· similar to col-. . a ·SID! ed . roa . y when we men- D· 1 1 F' 'tz J D !d. WreF nt, Roger W. Hanche~, Irving B. a ·low of $25 a term, and room . . . leges 1 -n the Bnited:S-:tates while the tioned American girls and said yes an e rl ' r., av · ros ' Mickey, David S. Platt, Lawrence t f · 1 $12 · h th ht th · Theodore E. Fryar. E. Sutter. ren • or a sing e room, was a c University-college ·fm~ academic· e oug ey were very mce. t At th t . t Continued from. Page :1.) F' · h • 1 h ·d t t · itt erm. · ose ra es, one m1gh \D subJ'ects . 18 • more ·Tn· f<Jrmal w· ith .mnrs · ~~r s, · e sa1 , ry o 1m ·a, e Jerome Gartner, Richard F. Geb- b b t f · evelopment of Puritanism in: = A · · d h Special Students even · e a le 0 af ord to go to a F · , classes and .even e:xazns an optional merrcan gl.l'ls an do so to t e ex- hart, *Harry M. Gehman, Jr., Ger- prom ranee\ provided the topic for :his, tent of wearing jeans, bob~y sox, ald G. Geismar, Richard A. Genth- Clarence H. Carlson, Erich Gans· ' lecture, which was followed at 8:00 matter left to the st\Udent's discre- The Golden Twenties brought a t· 1 ·on. Cal 1 1 ·kes Am.el:ican educa- and sweaters. American movies ner, Isak V. Gerson, John E. Glen~ muller, Stig B. Gustafsson, Rich- t th t' t• d p.m. by his major address in.· :Me- d . t . F. · 1 · h new era o e en 1re na 10n, an . tion and is vel'Y ll.ap.py here at· pre omma e m m and and t is non, Robert p. God burn, Donald ard J. Killeen, Francois M. G. La- college. was the latest fad. The en- moria! Chapel, \Defending Human . Union. con:tributes to the Finnish aecept- T. Gouger, Wiillam T. Graham, mar, Edward A. Laskowsltl, rollment of Union soared to over Values.\ ance of the Amertcan idea of Lawrence Greenberg, Kenneth F. Charles J. Mastroen!, A. Gerald a 1 ooo men, and the tuition kept Doctor Trocme spoke on \Ref- We were naturally very .inter- beauty. Greenough, Robert S. Greenwald, Shapiro. pace, jumping to $150 a year. Room ormation in Frence\ before two ested in what Cal ha.d t.o say about ---10--- Oscar Grusky, Vincent F. Guerra, rent ranged from $50 to $90 and history la classes on Thursday the world situation· and commun- DGuonastolnd. L. Guertin, Herbert M. IFC Discusses· something called a student activi- morning. After this he again .ad- ism. According toic~I, the Finnish Radio Pa·SSeS ties fee cost dear old dad $21. This dressed the chapel on· the topic people are Vfiry definitely- anti- Willlam P. Hall, III, Charles E. (Continued from Page 1) probably included a course in \Repentance and Reconciliation.\. communist and fa.vo:rably ·.disposed· Hallenbeck, Jr., Walter E. Hanson, stitution will be discussed. George ukelelee playing while wearing a This was followed by a lecture at toward the United •St.ates: .Although E. Perren Hayes, Richard G. He!- Exner, Hugh Plummer and George raccoon coat, a difficult art. 2:30 p.m. on \Community Planning the Finnish Comnn:anist Par.ty is mann, *Richard W. Henry, Charles Batkiewicz are the members of the in Le ·Chambon, France.\ At 4:00 probably stronger t:E:!an the Cem-· W. Herman, Jr., Edwin B. Hicks, committee. that are writing the Wartime In:flatlon p.m. he held individual .conferences munist Par.ties 6f tl:!.e· other Scan- Keith A Hitchins, Richard A. Hoff- constitution. By 1941, the tuition was at $400 in Silliman Hall with anyone who dinavian countries; it .represents man, Walter S. Hoffman, William a year, while room rent cost $105. was interested in .attending, Doctor · only aiiout 15% or the Finnish R. Holzapfel, Joseph c. Honet, It was announced that the Chi The student activities fee dropped Trocme's stay ended with an open people. The Communists. gained in Jewell w. Horning, Douglas Hous- Psi fraternity, winners of the Beat- to $13, for the 776 men of Union meeting in Silliman .Hall at 7:00 strength right aftEr W<Jrld War II ton, Arthur T. Hutton, Jr., Bruno Hamilton display contest, will re- had more serious activities to p.m., which was followed by similar b1,1t are now on the .downgrade., At· Jaselskis, Ronald Q. Jennett, Earl ceive the trophy in chapel Friday. think about than ukes and dates. discussions in dormitories. the height of their ,p.()\ver, the Fln- W. Jennison, Kenneth G. Johnson, Reuben D. Johnson, Robert L. Johnston. Fred S. Kantor, James R. Karl, David J. Kass, Gary B. Katz, Ed- ward F. Kearney, John P. Kennedy, Donald H. Ketchum, William C. Ketchum, Jr., Charles F. Koch, Myron Komar (KomarzanskD, Leo Kuperschmicl, Henry A. Lackner, Richard I. Land, Jr., Edward B. Landreth, Robert A. Laudise, Rob- ert M. Lea, Edward L. Lee, Alfred A. Les:zczynski, Lawrence W. Le- vine, Richard S. Lewis, Charles F. Little, Jr., Richard H. Loeber, Eliot Loshak, Philip J. Lynch. Graham H. McCall, Robert J. Mc- Coubrie, Jr., Donald P. McKibbin., John C, Maisel, David K. Martin, George E, Martin, Richard C. Mechanic, Lee W. Michalsky, Thomas Moran, Robert W. Morgan, Robert F. Murray, Jr., Ronald A. Nackman, Constantine A. Neuge- bauer, Armond N, Nirdllnger, Ger- ald E. O'Loughlin, Donald E. Olsen, Richar<l H. Page, John M. Pavko- vich, Richard H. Pollen, Martin Portnoy, Kenneth L. Pratt, Thomas H. Putman. Theodore Reinhard, Richard Relkin, Robert M. Richter, Herbert E. Rie, Stewart M. Robinson, Law- rence H. Rockland, Judah Roher, Alan H. Rosenfeld, • Arthur H. Rosenfeld, Victor A. Rudowski, Robert H. Rukgaber, Edmund R. Sawtelle, Jr., Henry V. Schaad, Jr., Eliot Schechter, Ralph G. Schilling, Ferdinand J. Schuette, Martin L. Schulman, Joseph G. Schultz, Don- ald E; Schwartz, Norman E. Scull, Frank J. Sgambellone, Peter T. Sheridan, Melvin A. Shiffman, Daniel Slesel, Monroe Sih·erman, Robert L. Sil'verman, DRvid I. Smith, Keith Q. Smith, Robert C. Smith, Norman Solomon, Charles H. Speirs. Leonard A. Staskelunas, David P. Steffenhagen, Charles D. Stewart, Arthur M. Stockman. WI!- AN AMERICAN IN PARIS Geno Kellv-Laslle Carol plus Natur~s Half Acre Doris Day-Gordon McRae Ruth Roman-VIrginia Mayo ~Ius The Whistle at Eaton Fl!ll1s Errol Flynn-Michellne Prelle plus The Unknown Han J.eslfe ;Brttl!i ~~Chesterfield. 4~~~~ 7:. .2 .. ~1 .. SI?NED .... . j.@~~ .. ... , , . PROPRIETOR because of ILDNESS PJ115 NO uNPLEASA'!T AFTE~;:~~!.!!. *PROM THE REPOR.T OF A . d only cl!!.!!h!.!!!!.e!!!.st~er:...::.:fi=ef...,.._cl has it I· ••• an ____ . Union sttidents in th~ New York city area for the holidays will ap- preciate .the fr'ee tic!{ets available for several ratlio. and TV shows. This ticket service is provided by the Union Coollege Ohestel'field re- presentative;. Harvey Kronick. Re- quests for tickets may .be made by calling him at 8~3814.· At least 3 weeks advance notice is required for the tickets. Vol~ 79, II Mar Not~ Ami Strikir professio honorabl of ~incei main s:r: sen, ma11 Internat provided teres tin~ the 250 at the fi tady Ah G~Cl\l Mr• Ma of the toi was askec youth in Being in l time, Roc the boy ir morning Markson's anl!wered query abc York by bum a r to catch: made a hospital. Markso· that man are respo the curre tercollegi: meant tl licity giv other ·cOl the attitt at any cc Accomi was Ray New Yot sion staf pro min en the last l former 1 only man McL.arnil Miller mentary Marcianc uled Rut his app mother's Fred master s job of telling; Nic Ju( Judge Schenec1 . l!'peakln~ yesterda tlvities was pa cltizensl The 1' passed courts ( an afft: wide r year • .Al the. COUl tion o' years ol who ar ·their cl pel .par dren. The Nicoll 75% of to enfo been chUd's While to str b1·ough ties de1 ftlllY \ emotiOl Stude discuss in~et ·office.

