,. j' :·.: 1-·~·-·;t,. ·~· .. Booters Hbme Tomorrow Vol. 79, No. 1 ·v u 1'1 c.. t7 ··t - t cr:~l~ s ~ Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1951 Enr-ollment. At Normal ·95l.Total Awaiting Tomorrow's Opener Total enrollm~nt figures indicate a surprisingly normal registration of 951 studet1ts desp~te the fear .. last · spring .that the dvaft would . rower that figure consider~:J.bly in th.e fall. Statistics were released last week by ~egistrar Mvs. Char- · lotte )M. Rapelje. Frosh ()lass La~·gest 'Skeller Buys New Chairs 158869f IFC Insures Dance Loan New Personnel, Students Added to ROTC Roster WRUC To Carry Football Game PRICE 10 CENTS Council Seeks Mountebanks Reorganization By Martin B. Gordon The Mountebanks, Union's dramatic group, was dis- banded by the Student Council at its fil·st meeting of the . year, when the members complied with the Student Tax Committee's recommendation to withdraw financial support from the organization. Library to ·Stay Open 'Tilll porn. .• The library will be open this year until 11 p.m. on weekdays, it has been an- . nounced by Helmer WE:lbb, librarian. Sunday hours will be from 2 until 10 p.m. It will also be open on Saturday afternoons, except October 13, 20 and 27 and November 17 when home football games are scheduled. Students To Aid Tax Commit.tee Hits Group Gerald O'Loughlin, chairman of the tax committee, recommended that support be withdrawn due to the depleted membership, poor morale, mishandling of funds, and poor handling of the organization. He also suggested that independent groups be allowed to use the ·theater and its facilities, but that they would have to finance the enterprise with their own funds. Furthermore, O'Loughlin stipu- lated that a committee for reor- ganization be established so that the Mountebanks could once again return to the .scene of campus ac- tivities. During the discussion that fol- lowed O'Loughlin stated that re- allocation of funds would accur when the group showed higher membership, better morale, and more authority over members. Be gave an example of men doing poor jobs for the organization, yet being retained from production to production due to •lack of replace- ments. The motion by the tax commit- tee was passed by a large rna, jority, and a committee will be fOrmed to study the reorganization. Daniel J. Slesel, last president of the organization, said that the group received no support from the students during production, even though the students whole heartedly attended the perform- ances. He said that he hoped they would be able to organize again in the latter part of the year, and perhaps still be able to produce two plays. He emphasized the need of student interest if these goals are to be realized. Open to All ' As things now stand any ama- teur group can use the theater as long as the use of Hannah hall is cleared through Miss Travis. Those groups desiring to put on produc- tions must finance them with their own resources, however. The Student Council also dis- cussed the pep rally which will be held on October 13. The following_ week will be Frosh-Soph rivalry week and events are to be scored on the same system that was in- augurated and used successfully last year. There will be the same events, and the same point system of scoring. A motion that pep rallies be held before every home football game, possibly followed by an informal dance, was brought up by Jay Cohn and left to the general ac- tivities committee after being passed by the Council. Cheerleaders for the forthcoming games wer-e discussed, and it was recommended by Richard Nemeth that girl cheerleaders be procured from one of the girl's schools. The council also decided tQ dis- cuss the new system of cuts as well as the ruling ·by the dean pro- hibiting freshmen to keep cars on campus with Dr. Davidson at the next meeting with the president. Dances Opposed Informal dances during the year ·was brought up by Leslie Couch, and it was his recommendation that they not be held, due to the fact that they would not only in- terfere with the Spring prom, but that if they were held, student in- terest would .probably not be great enough for the .school to have a Winter weekend. The committee also discussed a letter from PrOfessor Henry J. Swanker, now head of graduate council, who asked that homecom- ing weekend .be made move attrac- tive. Various methods for enlig'ht- <Continued on Page ·6)

4• ---01--- Swimmers Practice Tryouts Being Held Ray Mullane called his varsity swimming team into practice as soon as the semester started. Though the season is a long way off, Mullane will have a lot of conditioning to do If he hopes to extend his current eight meet win- ning skein. For the first couple of weel{s the mermen will just beo going through calisthentlcs and very light workouts in the pool. Mullane had been hoping for some added strength from the freshman class, but the turnout has not be!'n too good as yet. The frosh have started worl{ in the pool and Ray thinks a couple of men show promise for the future. Kennedy Named ·John P. Kennedy was an- nounced this week as the new sports editor of Concordiensis. He succeeds Jack Cassidy, who Is now news editor. Kennedy, a senior, hails from Havre de Grace, Md., and is a member of Delta Upsilon fra- ternity. VICTORIA Restaurant Specializing in Italian Foods · Jay Street (Cor. Union) , ' ~.'!\' - .: .. ; ·: ... i ~- .... ; 1 FRIDAY. SEPTEMBER. 2$; 1.95:1 - . -- :' , .. ·;-...,.. Dutchmen Open at Canton SaturdaY underdog GarnetS' Vie ~ Rube Johnson . Larries Show r Strength With Favored Larries In Champlain Opener Coaches Trip Marred by County Cops, Champlain Unfortunately for small college football coaches, athletic budgets don't allow for the hiring of a professional scout to watch opponents' games. Union•s- quartet of gi'idiron mentors, Sam Hammerstrom, Art Lawrence, Frank O'Brien and Pete Nistad, found some beauty in the task, however, last Saturday, when they drove to Plattsburgh to scout the St. Lawrence-Champlain game. The Law Arriv!'s ~----------------------- A rather Intrepid constable In the village of Elizabethtown pro- vided the GarnE't grid geniuses with warning that, \this Ia the most dangerous intersection between New York and Montreal.\ 'l. few comical outlooks on pro- Larries Save Subs vincial thought. When Driver Art Once In Plattsburgh, the quar- Lawren<ee pu!lPd over to th.e left tet's chuckles turned to frowns as side of the street and stopped for the Larrle powerhouse rolled over ,,mok!'s nPar the center of this grang!'r's metropolis, he failed to a poorly conditioned Champlain reclwn with this poor man's Philo eleven. But a clever student an- Vane!'. nouncer from Champlain turned them back to chuckles again. St. John Law imm!'diately strode up, Lawrence had rolled to a 42-0 lead and inquir!'d where Art learned to in the last quarter, but Coach Paul park lilH• that. When the mildly Patten had showed no Intention of abashed Lawrence replied: \Sche- putting in his reserves to lessen nectady\ the officer's reply was, the slaughter. The announcer pin- \Oh from Saratoga county\. Fear- pointed the crux of the situation ing his arrest as an escaped at this point when he called for a gambler, Art hastily replied that cheer for the Larrie team. The he was from Schenectady county, caustic comic's request was that incredibly enough. Elizabethtown's the crowd all sing \Onward Chris- protector of the people then re- tion Soldiers.\ lented, but only after a verbal These two minor incidents helped reprimand. Having shown his deep to add cheer to an otherwise dull insight in New York State geog- ·evening for the Union staff, anq raphy, the conscientious cop sent proved to them that a coaches life his culprits on their way with the isn't all drudgery. LANGE & RAPP PHARMACY \The College Students Drug Store\ CHEMICALS- DRUGS Cor. Nott Terrace and State Street Sam and His Staff tHE ACME BARBERSHOP 509 UNION ST. \Where the Service is a Pleasure\ .(Nearest to the Campus) ·~ ... - --- -;~-- ... -- ... -, DESK LAMPS Adjustable Incandescent and Fluorescent I i I I I I I SAVE SUPPLY CO. i 50 I State St. PHONE 6-4193 I I I I Head Coach Hammerstrom flanked by his asssitants, shown discussing strategy for Satm·day's opener with St. Lawrence at Canton. l,eft to right: Pete Nlstad, Frank O'Brien, Sam, A1·t Lawrence. 1.----------- ... ~ • • Rich Brown Calfskin $IQ95 Other Freeman's $9.95, ana Up Well-earned ease .•. The same superiority that sets Freema~ shoes apart from all others is found in this handsome leisure-time Oxford with moccasin toe. The invisible elastic .. hold-on\ is a slick trick that lets you loaf in leather without laces. bsa FREEMAN SAoo1 or succ&aaru~ M•ll't NUSBAUM'S SHOE DEPARTMENT .,THE NATION'S LEADING BRANDS ·FOR MEN AND BOYS\ 447-451 STATE STREET i ~~ FRIDAY.! Gar: Lor~ AmhE cer team moiTow a charges \ the hands to be one FaCing · ·~ .Union is s 1 ·,:: ppnent whe •,; They have ~ ·.:; club and hE great depth men will bE a vict<;>ry, b show ·a 'lot· break the. s extends fro1 Coach Gl' through p1 school oper with his s Greenfield, eligible last student, wil fullback pc Koenig and a senior a this ·year's : · '- 1 left ha]fbac at ce.nter h returning IE mir,e will j slot and w .:e varsity com Usln Dick LoE , >:. will' he on t are both j1 vide a str< · , ·. scoring thr1 ·\' will play H student fro: ' will fill thE side of the the offense ler, anothe comes fran:: Gleich ha the forwar< Herb Rie, ~ son. Thes• plenty of a son, who w field in tt Freshman fill !rr the t Gaps The tean:: of the ke~ team. Eri< tain, was E a strong ·m Jack Fisch be gone fr lng a big ~ sorely mis1 ,.._ : borg. · Osb• the offense as high sc< In the 1 will probat Jack of re1 ways .been dep1;h in e· , game is cl this might big point : the game i 1 the home sets the r1 Gleich is s · i substitutio: Amherst VI ·number of whole gam . ed substit last year o had been herst bega their seco .i;he closin! Wl The Dut ;.· .. : ·• ,, ; time bette ord of ?:<5 game sch• Albany St1 new oppo1 cuse. The humbied 1 B-1111!1-• I I DIs I I : ·Ca I ~I 167 J I ,!---·

er er es u• I i I I I I I I I I I I I , .. ' FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1951 Amherst will provide the opposition for the Union soc- cer team ~hich opens it~ season against the Lord Jeffs to- morrow afternoon at 2 p.m. on Daly Field. Coach Gleich's charges will be trying to avenge a 5-.1 beating suffered at 5 Ketzmen to Meet · Catamounts Away No Rule Changes : :~ '. 'r the hands of the visitors last season, and this may well prove . -:~ to be one of the roughest games on the Garnet schedule. The varsity cross country team will be running one of the tough- est tests on their schedule this Saturday v. hen they face the Uni- . versity of Vermor.t. Although Ketz's harriet·8 promise to be weaker than last season when they broke even, the squad has fai-r strength. No rule changes have been in- stituted by intramural director, Act Lawrence. However, there has been a revision of the eligibility rules. Under the new rules, which are being enforced much more this year, a team that is using an ineligible player wHI be eliminated from competition. Anyone who has earned a block \U\ in a sport cannot participate in that sport. To be eligible for· a .playoff game, a player must compete in two regular season games. A member who is retained on a final varsity squad and then voluntarily drops fro.m the squad will not be eligible for intramural competition in that sport. Anyone who is a member of a sports squad in season is banned from all intramural competition during that season. . ' FaCing Tough Opponent ~------------------~-------- ./\ ,Union is sure to face a tough op- · .. w•tt A . ,) ponent when they meet Amherst. ·. I .ner ' nnounces' , . . They have always fielded a sttong R } f T • ·.:; club and have taken advantage of.. · U es • or · . enniS Dolan Promising i great depth iil reserves. The Duch- men will be hard pressed to gain a victc;>ry, but the team is sure to 13how ·a lot of fight in an effort to · break the short losing streak that extends from last season. Director of Athletics Hal Vi{ itt- · · ner has issued the following regu- lati0ns for the tennis courts: 1. All players MUST wear TEN. Photo by Boris Front Row (left to right) : Saddlemire, Koenig, Paulson, Green- NIS SHOES with soft pliable field, Mum·o, Heinzman, .Shuttleworth. Bacl• Row (left to right): soles . Reinitz, Woodbm·y, Gansmueller, Lewis, Gustafsson, Rie, Rapant, 2. The caretaker shall be' sole Vogel; Gleich, coach. Faced with tht> problem of re- placing the outstanding Abe Lak- shil1, Cnach Ketz hopes for a fine · .season from Dick Dolan, who far out-d-istances the rest of the team. Dolan was hindered by injuries last yea·r· but should reach his peak this season. At the present time it appears that Gary Clough has Coach Gleich has put the team through practice sessions· since school opened and has come up •. with his starting eleven. Jordy Greenfield, a junior who was in- eligible last season as a transfer student, will be the goalie. In the · fullback positions w!ll be Tom Koenig and Dick Munro. Dick is , a s~nior and will . be captain of · this year's squad. Fred Rapant at judge as to the use of the . ----'-'~------------------------------------ ·courts after rainy weather. . PI s· t R t . t• I be paid, MUST get specific seats· the inside track on the number two position, while Dave Brown and Alan MacKinnon will be with- in the first five positions. Brown did not run last year and MacKin- non did well with the freshman squad. Courts are to be used only an ea 0 a lOll when the nets are up. . · ·.from the Athletic Office. . The rotation system for the dis- All tickets for students will be · o,! left halfback and Jerry Heintzman at ce.nter halfback are two of the returning lettermen. Ross Saddle- • mir,e will f!ll the other halfback slot and will be seeing hls first · 3. Wor~men engaged in repair- tribution of football tickets to the issued .from the Athletic Depart- ing or mark-ing the courts are Student Body which was il.dopted ment Office in the Gymnasium and to be .permitted to complete in the spring of 1948 by the Com- are for reserved seats. They can their task before play can start. mittee on Undergraduate .Activities · be procurred for the personal use 4. Students and Faculty ONLY. is again in effect. of the students only upon presenta- shal! be permitted the use of The system will operate with· tion of their Student Athletic the courts. greater equality and satisfaction Ticket. These tickets ARE NOT transferable and violation of the 5. Children of the Faculty M.em- ONLY if full cooperation 18 given rule will result in their forfeiture. bers shall be permitted the use by ~he Student ~ody Tfor whose Students desiring to purchase ad- of the courts if any are va- bene it it was ddevtlseld. he system · ditional tickets for guests should varsity competition. Using Help Students ., Dick Loeber and· Rhein Vogel· will be on the wing positions. They . · are both juniors and should pro- vide a strong part of the teams scoring threat. At -left inside, Gleich Cant' but NEVER to the ex -. divides the stu en s nto 22 groups . 'f · t · I . t d b 1 s d h I' · . so s1gm y when .procurmg hetr elusion of the above two named as IS e e ow. tu Y t e tstmg o:wn tickets. Guest tickets are groups and determine what category you priced at $2.00 each, tax included. \ ~ ' ' · are in. When obtaining tickets B. Doubles should be played when- ask for them in the proper block Faculty members must procure ever possible so as to insure of seats. their tickets from the Athletic Of- · ·!' will play Hans Gustafsson, a HELP u f th rt t th . fice prior to noon the day of each se o · e cou s o e max1- 1. Frosh Cheering· Section b 1 game. These tickets are for their mum n11m, er of P ayers. 2. Band personal use only and are NOT student from Sweden. Karl Reinitz will fill that position on the other side of the field and rounding out the Offense will be Eric Gansmuel- ler, another HELP student, · who cc;>mes from Austria. Gleich has three men to back up the forward wall in the persons o! Herb Rie, Shuttleworth, and Peter- son. These men are sure to see plenty of action, as will Ca.r! Paul- son, who will substitute for Green- field in the goal tending- duties. Freshman Peter Lewis is due to fill, irr the backfield. Gaps From Last Year The team will be. missing several of the key men of last season's. team. Eric Smith, the former cap- tain, was a good. ball handler and a strong 'man around the midfield. Jack Fischel and Don Bunce will be gone from the' backfield, leav- Ing a big gap in the defense. Most 7. If persons are waiting to play, 3. Ushers transferable. both singles and doubles 4. Theta Delta Chi matches are to be permitted to 5. Delta Upsilon fini:;;h their set before vacating. 6. Chi Psi In the event that the set goes 7. Psi Upsilon to deuce, play shall stop at 8. Sigma Chi once. 9. Kappa Alpha 8 Th t 10. Phi Sigma Kappa · . e ennis courts will be open 11 . Phi Sigma Delta on week-days until dark. 12 • Beta Theta PI 9. Play on Sunday shall be re- .13. Delta Chi stricted to the hours of 1 p.m. 14. Phi belta Theta to 5:30 p.m., and all players 15. Kappa Sigma must be dressed in a CLEAN 16. Beta Eta Upsilon WHITE COSTUME. 17. Sigma Phi 18. Phi Gamma Delta 19. Alpha Delta Phi 20. Kappa Nu 21. Delta Phi ---01-~- RPI Tix on Sale Hal Wittner, director of athletics, announced today that tickets for the RPI football game are ready for distribution at the gymnasium. The cost of each will be $1.80, and the game will be played at Troy on Oct. 6. FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS Serving Union Since J97 J 10. Use of the indoor ·court in the gymnasium will be reserved for the varsity . squad when in- clement weather prohibits their practice outdoors. 11. Violators of the above rules will be denied the privilege of using the courts. 22. ;Dorms and Others Reservations will be held until ·. M I -. ·-- a, ~ ~%\\~ 5 p.m. the Wednesday prior to each c.lf{,('J.IJIUCCF../U ~\ \\1 sorely missed might be Howie Os- · -------------------- borg. Osborg was the big man on the offense and finished the season as high scorer for the team. game. · \~~(\~} ~r 'il'he Cheering Section of 200 seats An '\\J \· Jll\1\· ~- S\.:\]f\1/fl\M,· is reserved for Freshmen ONLY. U'''' 1 '' lH[ In the game tomorrow, Gleich will probably suffer most from the lack of reserves. Amherst has .a;I- ways -been a team with a lot of dep~h in every position, and if the game is close in the. final period, this might be the dif,ference. The big point in Union's favor is that , the game is going to be play_ed on · the home field. The home club sets the rules on substitution and Gleich is sure to play with limited substitution. Under this system, Amherst will- be limited to a fixed · number of replacements during the whole game, as oppose.d to unlimit- ed substitution which was used last year on their field. The game had been pretty close wuntil Am- herst began to take advantage of their second and third teams in -the closing periods. Will Better Record The Dutchmen will have a hard ; time bettering their mec:liocre rec- ord of il<-5-1. The.y face an eight game schedule again, picki~g up Al]:)any State Teacl).ers College as a new opponent and drop'ping Syra- cuse. The strong Orange team was humbied by the Gar.net last year, and had to · settle for a 3-3 tie. Syracuse has dropped soccer as a varsity sport this season for lack of funds. Rounding out the schedule for the year will be the U. of Mass., In the first away game, RPI, at 'home, Rochester away and Cham- plain and Hamilton at home. Wil- liams College ·has also been dropped from the schedule. The .traditional RPI game will be the other big game of the year; the Engineers are \loaded\ this season and may prove more than, a match for the Dutchmen. - · .r--c~::;e_-_ o:-:~~-;~::~--- 1 : SpeCials 60c and up I I : ·HOME FOOD I ·l CAFETERIA l l Downstairs next to Wallace's t I Op'\ 7 A.M. to 7 P.M. I t_ _____ ~~_:~~::~----- B---~-----------------------~ I i : D IS TINCT IV E M EN • S W.E A R : .I '· I : ·Capital Me·n.'s Sho.p, Inc. : I I ~I 167 J~y Street Schenectady, N. Y. I : . I ,·.~---- ~------ ~·-- ~·-- ~------- ~ •. .J Band Members MUST get tickets in the Band Section ONLY. II 1~6 Jay Street II Students who plan to serve as , ushers, for which service they will .. an Arrow '\('Gordon Oxford\ j'!LSt went by! ' America's Favorite Campus Shirt Art•ow Repp Ties $4.50 $2.50 .ARROw SlliRTS & TIES UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS Behind these first four, Ketz has John J:,arkin, Dick Mechanic, Alex MacCormick, and Bob S<tddler. Larkin, Mechanic, and MacCor- mick saw action last year while Saddler is a freshman prospect. Dutchmen Underdogs As yet the squad members are only in fair condition and have a long way to go to reach their peak. Vermont and R.P.I. have very strong squads and will be definite favorites when they face the Gar- net harriers. Hostra will definite- ly be tougher than last year with two outstanding men returning. Champlain and Middlebury are the only two meets where the Dutch-. men w!ll probably rule as favorites. These are the only teams on this year's schedule, Hamilton having canceled one meet. It is apparent that there is no one to replace Lakshin on the squa~, and with Bob Murray not runmng, the squad has lost two SAVE 100/ 0 on Leading Brands of WALLPAPER HARDWARE PAINTS & VARNISHES HOUSEWARES CAPITOL PAINT & HARDWARE CO. 726 State St., Ph. 4-8393 Since two losses are all that is needed to eliminate a team, the opening round this week ·• was a good indication of the leading teams that will be fighting to de- throne, DU, last year's grid champs. Wednesday's Results Wednesday, Phi Delt, loser in 1950 playoffs, downed the Betas, 14-Q. Alpha Delta Phi squeaked by Sigma Phi, 6-0. Kappa Alpha showed a lot of power in downing Sigma Chi, 21-6. In the highest scoring tilt of the day, Delta Phi mauled Delta Chi, 22-6. Wednes- day's games were postponed by rain. Each round in the tennis tourna- ment is to be completed in a week, with the first round scheduled to end by October 6. Each house must arrange their own matches. Four different men must be used by each team. top men from last year. Fresh- men p rospects are not too bright at this time but a J.V. squad will be formed soon. GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY . Patton & Hall X-RAY FITTING 245 State St.-Since 1895 The best-looking .• , and most looked-after ••• shirts on campus Arrow Gordon Oxfords Arrow \Gordon Dover\: campus· preferred button-down oxford 0.00 Here is the shirt that looks right A. M. through P.M .••. keeps you looking your best from early class to late date. Button• down collar. Mitoga cut for that neat, \custom-tailored\ look. \Sanforized\ ox· ford cloth. Arrow Repp Ties • • • 0.00 N u.s B Au M Is 447-451 STATE STREET \------- FOR ARROW UNIVERSITY STYLES ------...,;1

6 Freshman Must Sing,. Navy Exam . Former Chem Pro! He~ds ·s . h· ·r . -. Th· · . . t· .. Set for Dec. Placement, Alumni Offices op err.ors . rea en Dec. 8 has been set as the date· ;E'rof. Henry J. Swanker_ has re-~- . . . - . h S h • D' · l' C 'tt h d h t for the n:ation-wide Navy com-. cently been a,ppointed to the pQsi--. T e. op omole ·. ISClP lne ommi ee as opene w a petitive examination for high tions of Placement Bureau Head appears to be another successful season, and the latest ta:bu- school graduates between 17 and·.and Director of Alumni Relations lation found that two cowling freshman had succumbed to. 21:, at the college. Profe.ssor Swanker, the comtnittee'.s crushing blows (mostly around the head).. The ~avy- expects to hand out a • a graduate of Uni?n, class of '31, •. giant Jackpot of 2000 free college . and- a former assistant professor Grrr! . educations to those who can meet· of chemistr-y on the campus, fills· This year's SDC consists of an Two Time Loser the physical and mental standard:q. ·the posts made vacant by the re- impressive aggregation which in- Fur Ashrr, howev:er, thi::; V\vas Qualifyiti~ students will be as- turn to active naval duty of Fred- eludes Chicl1 Josephson, Al Rosen- old stuff <his second haircut this signed to a Naval ROTC unit for: eric A. Wyatt. feld, ChEn lie Fink, Sonny Gertzog, season, and he joined the im-. four years of training l~ading to, First Meeting Wednesday Doug Williams, Charlie Suter, Dick t 1 f h' h th' . two years of active .servrce as an: . _ . h mor a ew w IC . Is year m- officer r'n the Navy or •.rar·r·ne ·. Already operatmg at pe.ak ef . Fifoot, Phil BuPth, Terry F1s , I A N d · = B b c udes rt ewman, an 1s sure. Corps. ficiency -under its new director, Gene Eril<son, Fred Rickartz, o b f h b to include ·many more · e ore t e ·Trar'nees WI'll recei·,,e tui'ti'on,. the· Placement Burean. announces Ballard, Dicit L<:>e, Mel Shira, Bo h 'd t . end of t e game season. boo'·s, ·and normal fees, p·Ju· s \50.-00 :_ its firs_t meeting of the term to. be_ Tafel, JD<' Loffi-t'dO, and pres1 ~·n ., \~' anrt heacl C'Oach :VI lite Rnbasca. As prPsident Rabasca put it,· a month from the government. held Wednes~ay, October. 3. Semors, ~likt• op<'ned under a serious \Unless th<' obnoxious attitude of Prof. Frederick Klemm is Coun- ·.as well as mterested underclas.s- h:mdi•·••r> sitW<' thc·t ,. wtre no re- the frP>'hrnPn who pprsist in re- sellm· an the Armed Services in 'men, are enjoined to be present In turning letlPrmen, but by using fraining from· a daily serenad·e in. the campus area and· may .be con- order to fill out preliminary forms, the pliccless experience that he chapel changes, we will be forced, tacted for more specific informa- later to be augmented, :for use had g-ath.et·ed in thP pi·evious yea 1 ·, much to our displeasure, to ca.ncel· tion when company r.ep!'esentatives ap- lll' wa,; abk• tu formulate a sn;ooth the fl'stive occasion in which the· · pear on campus seeking prospective running organization. members of the cia:;:; of '55 march H b k EJ t d employees. Tho· C()nl mitl<'o• I raJ]~· wi'nt into. <O pompou~ly down State street in oorn ' ee· ec e ' Professor Swanker requests also, high gem this week with three their PJ's.\ T M B d that students planning to enter trials marking the festivities. -------0 -- . 0 ·. a'nage •. an graduate schools avail themselves of the services of the Placement Sing· You Simlel'S Councl\' I The College Band elected its new Bureau in order that proper under- -~---~---~--~~- Tiw row sN'ms to have developed · slate of officers Wednesday night· graduate records may be kept on th o\'('1' t h1• ·bc'hgNant attitlld<' of the to lead th<J organization for t 1e file for .possible future use. - th I · - . -ing news of the campus to cn_1 C · t' d f P ') ancl by doing clerica:l work 1n · e1r freshmen concerr..ing the chapel < on mue rom age >-· coming YPar. As director of alumni relations, beha!L \\\renacle. High priest Rabasca ening the weekend we1•e discussed, Elected as Band manager was Professor swanker plans to con-- has \tat<>d that unl<>s\ tlw sing-im: and the letter was sent to commit- senior Louis· Hoornbce!t, to be as- uime and enlarge upon the three: is rc\unud mote and mol'(' fresh-' tee• for further study. sisted by a freshman, Saul Babbin. major services of the office. man wil bP forced to ~uffer punish- David V'.'alrath, president of the Junior Frank Thomas was elected. . ment at the hnnds of their sopho- council recommended that John Band Librarian, with several cap- • Aids Alumni Groups Kennedy be appointed to the now able assistants, and freshman Professor Swanker will be liason ..................................... ~ .... -SPORTSWEAR- more master~. Men's Work Clothes At the> IH~t \tpa\ Rob BRI!Rrrl, A~her -Rnhinowitz nnd MikP Stein wer£> invitPd to attend the proceed- ings as guests. Ballard suffered only to \i.rg- in chapel for two \'acant position of senior member Thomas Angell is candidate for, officer between the alumni grc;mps · of the tax committee. The motion Drum Major. Senior Arthur .Stock- and the college. In this capacity was tabled pending further study. man was appointed chairman of he cooperates with the Graduate ---o fi'eld formations. Council in formulating procedure dnv~. StPin was given the privilege Two Vo•t\ces of· beautifying our campus by re- M/Sgt. Robert ·Miller, faculty ad- for Homecoming and Commence- visor to the Band, states that he ment Weekends. JAY PANTS SHOP TAILORING moving all of thP dried canine (Continued from Page 2) fe('es that hG came across, and conclu~ion that we havP made carrying them in a paper bag to !<>ads us to suggest a possible all of llis class<>s. Ashf'r Rabino- remf'dy through the expansion of witz was slightly less fortunate. the fraternity system to include He was a warded the SDC dand- all intPrested undergraduates in a ruff remover service with Gene way that protects the freedom of Erikson. one• of our finest bar-bers jude-Pment of all individuals. l'\t·futuang lll<' wnt. W<>'ve tried to reason this out l t wa,; a ~ulemn \\' emony, and and hopE' to make you feel the re- onv cuuld \'ce the \tuk suphumot es 1 sponsibihty of the necessity of your ;,li .J.>Illll,.; tu huld lJ..tdt tile teal> uf l<·a.~omng 1t out, If only to point sympathy and pity that they felt out the possible errors of our for puur Asher. reasoning or conclusions. STAN JOSEPH says: You'll find every V.I.P. on campus wearing grey flan- nel suits for V.I.D.'s (very important dates) Oxford and Cambridge Grey $45 to $57.50 Grey Flannel Slacks $10.50 to $17.50 • Jasep~'s Stan Joseph Union '21 For Car Troubles See a Union Man Ask the Boys Who Trade Here Wi!liam H. Plath Auto Service 60 I UNION STREET GAZETTE ~----------------------~ I Famo11s Chinese and I American Foods J LUM FUNG Restaurant BEST LIQUORS AND COCKTAILS • I • • I I I 1135 Broadway Phone 6-9595! t-------·--------------~ ->~>\);.~ ' I • Watches, Jewelry Clocks Repaired • Engraving, too! Jay Jewlery C·o. Printers Alterations Free is hopeful of fielding a 40-piece It is the work of the office to outfit this se:ason with the ranks introduce young alumni to their' filled by upwards of 20 freshman local alumni organizations. Ih con- bandsman. · junction with this phase of its The Band's first appearance of activities the Alumni Relations of- the year will be at the RPI football fice maintains a constant associa- game on October 6. tion with the local groups by mail- . 100 Jay St. Opp. City Hall He's a Cam,pus A-man The \A\ stand~ for .. Activities\-and he's in a lot of them. Plays first-string basketball. Writes for the school paper. Represents his class on the student council. And on top of that, he's a good student. Telephone people are like that, too. Besides gi-ving good, friendly, courteous telephone service, they take part in numerous extracurricular activities. That's 'vhy you'll find telephone men and women working on charity drive$, joining service (!lubs, leading Scout troops. The same spirit of friendliness and helpfulness which liefl behind the fine telephone service this country rceeives, makes telephone people A-people in their communities. BUL TELEPHONE SYSTEM ® I FRIDAY. S_EPTEMBER 28i 1951 Kronick for Chesterfields .. The Campus Merchandising Bu- · ;~-' reau has announced the -appoint- 1 r \\ . tnent of Harvey Kronick as ChClS· I_· ·1'! terfield · campus representative at 1:t,~ Union College. · . , Kronick, a senior, who held the ·:·'i position. ·last year, acted as host . ·':. :i for a regional conference held at Union this past w~ek. Attending the conference were representa- tive :from Williams College, ~ll;id­ mare, Albany state Teachers . Col- lege and the Universit:y of Mas,Sa· chusetts. A showing of tlie 16mm :color film ·\The New To]:)accolil,nd u;s.A.\ highlighted the meeting. ·Gliver Wendel-l Hobbes says, \The dif.ferEmce between an insane asy~um and a college is tll'at one . must show iinproveiner,t t9 get out of the assyl'!lm.\ ·Make the World's Greatest Pipe and Tobacco Shop ·raE VUTliS PI'P·E · SHOP 129 WALL ST. Your Headquarters for All Your Smoking Needs Giant Pipe Sale Now Going on! Thousands of Bea-utiful Pipes From France- in the Natural Grain ONLY $1.00 - If Yo.u Want to Lea,rn How to Enjoy a Pipe, Come in F-or FREE Lessons . • • FREE ·Tobacco •.. and a FREE Corncob Pipe ALL ON TH.E HOUSE!! I. I ~ . ,. I '1 .. :· .~ ., . .·__, Vol. 79 Unior a gpant sult of late pu Cmfts. New Y< Cornell Manhat major k wiU w Wednes Conn. 'Pub Crofts, the faun• tury-Cro:f) cialized i: text boo! will verne else blue produced The fu fied, to facilities tion to t were set ship func of Croft Groft. Manha1 for the e scholarsl1 his moth well Par Cor; Cornell g_ueathed suit of C and dire at the ·reason w tion of l PresidE not be 1 Helmer disclosed the Cro: single a brary ha grants, and mer the sum to almc contribut the Mar twenty Baker ( tnousancl year old Even th compare the mon available Mu Ab( Robert summer tached t G 1 ermanj Thursda: .two spee dents tl the worl Griffith the prev Murra: build a with eff thril.e we uled fou mer Wll.E were lod were si: group VI tives fro includinl zone of · Or! With 1 the org: cratic li most of out thai the Ge1 orders some ti: sometim Durin1 some m able to and ob~ sored vi; r~ty wa: the apt feeling youth a · The ' were fa Murray continui makes pear,

