Cagers at 'Rensselaer Tomorrow Vol. 79, No. 16 3J uhtl:e t lrar Founded at Union College in. 1:877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 1952 • \Angel Street\ Opens Thursday PRICE 10 CENTS ''A · l s·t· t'' \o · . nge · · ree · pe.n.s Symposium The Concordiensis will pub- N ·. .ext·: ·r. hu' . rs·d.a.y: Nigh' t· ' ~;!p!!Tu!~r!ex~ w~:k~~::le 0 :. 11 \What is the Future of United A combin.ation of veterans and newcomers will be : States Economy?\ Among those who will con- Memorial Chapel Scene For Jazz Concert, April 28th featured 'in the forthcoming English department dramatic tribute to the panel are Davis P roduction,. \Angel Street.'' The play will open for three. Griffith, .Jerome Gartner, Her- bert Schmertz, Walter Tower, , K t G ·• nights Thursday, March 13. It will reopen March 20, and and Allan stone. ·Griffith and· • € Z .lVeS will play thl~ough Saturday night, March 22. Hanna Hall, Schmertz have contributed to · previous ·concordiensis SYJU- . Ch l T lk will be the stage for the presentation. .posiums. . i ape . . a ' \A:qgel Street\ .-is an English de- A-·~-~---~---~~ L---~------------...-...1 . partment production. The depart- IF · A b· t D ft ment is incurring all expenses and. • ·c R.· eJ\ ects Propo·.: s·e·d · · ou · ra · will sustain all losses, -if any, of the show. Therefore, \Angel Street\ Due to the proximity of is not a student activity and• ad-. Plan fo· r Meal Rotatt\on . the Selective Service Quali- mission is not free. Activity cards · · · · : · · · . . ' ' · fication Tests for deferment will not be a,ccented for admission. f th d ft M d ' :Balneavtfs Featured The Interfraternity Council decided to allow fraterni- rom e ' ra , 1 on ay s Featured in the cast is James ties to vote once more before taking up the question of chapel was highlighted by a Balneaves as the friendly and . talk by Mr. Wilford Ketz on dominating Inspector Rough. Bal- . deferred rushing in the secong. semester at its meeting last the draft regulations. neaves, the St. Andrews exchange Tuesday. Robert Hochuli, president of the IFlC offered When to R,cgister student, was an active member of th1's as a tentative solution rather than· break the 7-7 dead- the St. Andrews dramatic society, For the benefit of those Fresh- and was mainly concerned with the lock in the voting. men who are not yet eighteen, Mr. writing o~ short humorous skits. Rotation Plan Defeated ~ Ke'tz stated that a person must b 1 • t register within five days after his This wHl · e Ba neave s firs con- A rotational plan for eating at · t t b' t d Th' b tact with melodrama. R\ k' a· elgh een h lr h ay. lS may e Bruce Franklin, a senior engi-· the fraternity houses by the . . IC . ey . lVeS done at the Student Activities Of- rushees was also discussed. Under fice. At the time of registration a neer and a member of Delta· Phi this plan a certain number of • person may choose between regis- fraternity is business manager for freshmen would eat at each house Art Le·cture tering with his home board or a the production. A veteran of high every d(!.y, in order to let the Schenectady draft board. Once the school dramatics, Franklin will freshmen become more familiar Professor George Rickey, widely choice has been made it is per- make his initial theatrical bow with all of the fraternities as well. known painter and sculptor, proved manent and can not be changed. here at Union College. His job as .as to allow the fraternity men to to be a lively stimulant to interest When a student reaches about business manager entails technical become familiar with the entire in art in his five public appear- eighteen years and si:x months he and business skill, and Franklin, freshmen class before giving out ances on the Union campus, Wed- will receive his questionnaire. At in addition to having. charge of· bids. nesday an<:l Thursday. that time he may request a cer- publicity,. also supervises the in-. The fraternities would be given tain classification. Every_ person, cidental factors of produetion. 75 cents for lunches and 95 cents Five AppCillii'ances said Mr. Ketz, upon receiving .a Furman Lighting Head for dinners in order to compensate In addition to his public lectures questionnaire must request that Lighting head fov the presenta- for the feeding of the rushees. The in MemoriaL Chapel, Wednesday the college notify his draft board tion of \Angel Street\ Is sopho- Council, however, defeated the mo- evening, on \Need Art Be Mod- that he is attending classes at more Joshua Furman. A member tion, since it was felt that such a ern\ Mr. Rickey offered a demon- Union. of Kappa Nu fraternity, Furman .plan would not be financially ad- stration of portrait painting and a All Should Take Test steps from J;lis former position on- vantageous to the fraternities in demonstration of mobile sculpture, stage as the mildcmannered hus- ·spite of the rebates that they would both of these showirigs being in Mr. Ketz advised e~eryone, re- band of the temperamental leading be given for the meals. It was sug- Old Chapel. gardless of their class standing or lady in \Light Up The Sky,\ to a gested, however, that a rotational. In his appearances at assembly whether or not they are in ROTC, place of responsibility· .backstage. system be set up so that the fresh- programs Wednesday and Thurs- to take the Qualification test, if Richard Heimann, starred .as the men can visit all of the fraterni- day, Mr. Rickey t!!-lked on develop- they have not taken the test before. h 'll ments in art since the first con- Another matter brought up was conniving Mr. Manning am, Wl ties, and become acquainted with nection of his own family with that of the new deferred classifica- be supported by Louise Woodruff the actives in this way. This mo- U . C 11 ti h t tl'one. The~e are.· 1S-which allows of Schenectady as his wife, and tion was passed unanimously. mon ° ege; a connec on t a ~ ~ · ·1 goes back .before the turn of the deferment for the remainder of Jacqueline Roberts and Pr1smla Rushing Still Undecided s · t d century. the college year, and 2 -wh1ch is Proxmire, both of Schenec a !• ~ Earlier ih the meeting motions Wednesday, he talked about the a special deferment based on class Nancy and Elizabeth, respeqtlve y. that rushing be deferred until the freedom that the artist has in his standing and/or the Qualification The ent!re production of \Angel end of the first marking period, or work. Unlike the scientist, the score. Pre-Medical students are Street\ is under the direction of to the end of the first term were artist has no formal rules to de- classified the same as anyone else Professor Donald .S. Jones of the defeated after much discussion on pend on. The work that he pro- but may get another deferment English department. the relative advantages and dis- duces is a reflection of his own upon acceptance at a .Medical advantages both to the freshmen personality, said Rickey. school. and the fraternities. Engifteer vs. Artist o--- J ohn Franke of Sigma Phi read His second chapel appearance Off A d for other proposed rushing plans, but was devoted to a talk on the great er war . these were submitted to the Rush- personality of Leonardo da Vinci, Book Collect!\ on By Herbert L. Spira Sedate Memo1·ial Chapel is bracing itself for the most novel and most spectacular ordeal of its long history. The massive columns will vibrate in syncopated rhythm as the classic structure echoes the strains of a gigantic Jazz Appreciation concert scheduled to take place Monday evening, April 28. New Device To Test EE Instruments Professor Harold W. Bib- her, chairman of the division of engineering· at Union Col- lege, announced today that the electrical engineering de- partment has completed an apparatus whereby any of the 300 laboratory instru- ments at Union can be cali- brated to an accuracy of plus or minus one percent within five minutes. Assures Accuracy The apparatus will greatly facili· tate the maintenance of a high standard of engirieering training at Union. Each student can assure himself that his instrument regis- ters as accurately as his slide-rule calculations. Therefore, the quan- tative predictions in various ex- periments can be verified or re- futed with greater precision than under conditions in which there is doubt concerning the accuracy of an instrument a.nd no way of easily testing the instrument. The calibrator was designed by Professor Richard B. Russ and built by Sherwood Lennartson of the class of 1952. The calibration machine provides a standard against which the five basic types of instruments, which have ten different ranges, a total of fifty different combinations, can be tested by one device. T):le ap- paratus has safety features built in, whereby it is impossible through faculty operation to impair the ac- curacy of the four standards of the device against which the in- struments are tested. Oalibrator Saves Time Has Several Sponsors Arranged to present the very best in modernistic music for the enlightenment and enjoyment of the general public as well as the student body, the event will be sponsored ·by Union. College with the cooperation of radio station WGY, and the Jazz Appreciation Sqciety of Schenectady. Col- lege funds for the all-star program will be drawn from the Concert and Lecture fund and the Student Activity budget, with the re- mainder contributed by the outside organization:s. The Concert will probably be the first instnace of. a college sponsoring an event of this type for the benefit of the public. Working diligently on perfecting· the extravaganza is Walter Towet·, who announced that the program will embrace two sections: mod ernistic music, represented by the well-known Billy Taylor Trio; and the swing unit featuring inimitable Rex Stewart and a host of other outstanding and colorful musica notables. Willie Smith at Piano Blending with Rex Stewart's coronet will be Vic Dickenson's trombone, the clarinets of Bob Gil bert and Edmund Hall, Sonny Greer's drumming background, and .the animated piano of Willie \the Lion\ Smith. Together these jazz artists will weave the fa::Jcinating patterns of musical imagery that have thrilled and delighted people and converted \squares\ from coast to coast. Plans Made For Parents The Delphic Society is working hard to complete the plans for Parents Weekend, which is being held under their sponsorship, April 18-20. The preliminary steps have been taken, and letters will be sent out to the parents of all Union · ing Committee so that they can as well as a description of the be ironed out before they are similarity of the role of the engi- Librarian Helmer L. Webb has presented to the Council for a vote. neer to that of the artist. announced that the Florence H. The calibration job can now 'Qe · done by one who has had no ap· preciable technical training, thus relieving faculty members fo1· more important work. Since, in normal laboratory use, the probability of abuse to the delicate instrument is quite high, it is desirable for fre- quent calibration of the Instru- ments for accurate laboratory work. It is hoped that the new device will allow a complete check of •all the instruments every six months. Dickenson has just concluded a record-breaking performance at the Savoy in Boston and has lent his talented trombone to the orchestras of Eddie Heywood and Bobby Hac kett in the past. Gilbert is known from his previous appearance here at Union with Stewart, while Hall has currently been playing at Ed die Condon's Greenwich Village establishment. Wii!ie \the Lion' Smith's celebrated novelty numbers and colorful antics have brought him as much popularity as his· talent for teaching piano (Fats Waller, Claude Thornhill, and others) has brought him fame. Sonny Greer, who spent 23 years with Duke Ellington's legendary jazz outfit, is rated one of the fin- est living technicians on the traps and drums. He is reputed to have supplied the rhythmic background for more jazz famous performers than any other drummer in the country. The representatives of Kappa ---o·--- Rich prize, given to that senior Alpha, Delta Upsilon, Theta Delta who has made the best collection Chi, and Phi Gamma Delta did not Wai·nger, Herri\ck of books during his college career attend the meeting. at Union, will be awarded this year. -~--Do--b- t Are Recuperating March t5 neadline students this week. A tentative schedule of events has been drawn up, with a few changes from the program offered last year at the first annual Par- Phi 0 e . a e Professors Bertram M. Wainger The prize is given every fourth year, in honor of ~Irs. Rich's I P bl • h d and Raymond H. Herrick of the mother, and has the value of $50. . s ' u . IS e English Department are recuper· Any senior who is interested should· ents Weekend. The basic change, The current 1950-51 issue of as proposed. by program chairman \University Debaters' Annual\ a Paul Woods would be the cancel- collection of the best collegiate de- lation of the social tea held in Hale bates in the United States, con- House last year with the President tains for the first time, a debate by· and his wife as hosts. the 159' year old Union College Coffee Hour Proposed Philomathean Society, t:qe oldest In place of the tea, there would debating society in New York be a coffee hour in the evening State. followed j)y a discussion period. Book Rooently Released The change is necessitated by the The book, which has just been fact that the sports events listed delivered to tl).e libraries of the· for Saturday will last until late in United States, contains the debate, the afternoon. \Resolved: That Gambling Should At their Wednesday meeting the Be Legalized,\ which was the Delphics voted to inquire into the. Philomathean Parlimentary debate possibility of having a showing of in 1951. Professor Harold Larrabee, the English play.:productioi:l. class chairman of the Philosophy de- \Angel Street\ as well as a Glee partment of Union ·College, and Club concert Saturday evening. If Klaus Eppler, a student, debated \Angel Street\ can be produced at Professor Arthur K. Davis, chair- that time, tickets will !Je offered man of the Sociology department, to the visiting parents on a first and Lawrence Levine, also a mem-. ·come, first served basis, due to the ber of the Pliilomatheans. limited seating capacity of the The Parliamentary de bat e, Hanna Hall theater. started by the Philomathean or- The remainder of the meeting ganization four years ago, has be- was devoted 'to filling out the .com- come one of the most popular niittees. Reuben Johnson was ap- events on .campus. Last year 'the .pointed to bead .the Weicoming audience, including many residents Committee, a post which had not of Schenectady, voted for the yet been filled. The Delphic presi- <adoption of Legalized Gambling. dent, Clerry O'Loughlin then Chairman of the debates was Don- pointed out the tasks that re-, aid Bunce from Scotland who was mained, especially those small mat- ·attending Union as an ex11hange ters needed to malte the weekend student from St. Andrews Univer- a bigger success, sity. ating from recent illnesses. Both are at ·home; Wainger at 6S Union see Mr. Webb before March 15, and Avenue, and Herrick at 1003 Nott file a copy of the list of books which he has collected by purchase Street. · or gift while at Union. Wainger, who suffered a heart attack near the end of the last The list should E;lnumerate tht> author and title, or if the book is term, taught courses in American illustrated, the artist. The book Civilization and a seminar course, collection should not contain text Humanities 50. He also handled a books used in courses here. The freshman English section. compilation does not have.. to be in Hel'rick Under Knife one field, although that will not Professor Herrick has recently count against the student. returned to his home after under- The size of he collection should going .a major operation in the not worry the interested seniors, Leahy clinic in ;Boston. He is on for quality will be the first con- a term's. leave of absence to allow sideration. Webb and Dr. Blodgett, time for recovery. Professor Her- chairman of the English depart- rick taugPt courses in the English ment, wiH be the judges, and will Novel and Victorian Literature; he consult with other faculty members also directed a freshman English in the event that any of the works section. entered are out of tlleir :realm of knowledge. Draft Test ~---a--- Junior Placement ___ ,0 Albright Safe on Yemen Expedition Dr. Frank P. Albright, former professor of art at Union College, now an archaeologist with the Yemen expedition which recently fled that small country in south- west Arabia under a hail of bullets from native soldiers, has cabled from the Aden Protectorate \Am safe and still working.\ The cable came in reply to an inquiry from three Union profes- sors, Harold G. Avery, Hans Baine- . bach, and S. Paul Jones, sent to Dr. Albright in care of the Gov- ernor General of the British Pro- tectorate of Aden after news had been received that the expedition had been forced to flee. Have Individual Abilities \All these men have been .picked for their abilities to render s~nsi­ tive individual interpretations and also combine into the dynamic teamwork that makes for the ideal jam session,\ said Tower. Actually, the Trio has been mak- ing remarkably successful records under the Roost label. Billy Tay- lor is a standout teacher, arrang!'r, and perfm;mer on the piano. He will be joined by Charlie Mingus on the bass and Charlie Smith at the drums, and will present Terry Glenn on the vibraphone as solo- ist. Nat Hentoff, \The\ New Eng- land jazz critic is slated to emcee the proceedings. WGY is making arrangem.ents to broadcast a por- tion of the show. ---0•--- Union students intending to talie the April 24 Selective Serv- ice Quallficaticm test must send in their applications not later than 1\larch 10. Application blanlts may be obtained fl'O!U the nearest 'local board, or in the Student Activities Office This is the last test given dur· The second plac.~ment panel for Wendell Phillips, president of the Juniors~ be in C.E. 106 on Mon- American Foundatiol\ for the Study IDOL Changes Format day -evewng, March 10 at 7:30p.m. of Man which is sponsoring the At ~his n;ee~ing general t?chnique.s 1 Yemen expedition, and members of Publication date of the next issue of ~nterv1~wmg an~ malung. apph-~the group, including Dr. Albright, of the IDOL has hPen set for the cat10n w1ll be d1scussed. These were forced to flee the ancient week of the 24th of March accord- are ~he fundamentals of go_od job- 1 city of Mareb. At Mareb, tradi- ing ·to an announcement tnday by seekmg and should be of mterest 1 tional capital of the Biblical Queen I the rditors. ThP coming- is~u£> of to each member of the class. This 1 of Sheba and site of the expedi- the IDOL will contain material opportunity is offered, not Qnly in 1 lion's eXcavations, tribal soldiers which lhr editors hope will be of ~rcpa~ation for your senior year 1 surround:d and· threaten~~ them. wider interest to the student body lnteJ'VteWs, but also for summer·! Left behmd by the cxped1llon was ·than has been the case in years . ing the current academic year. . Students who ha\·e preViously taken the test need not apply. I ·~ employment. equipment valued at $200,000. past.

2 Olnurnr Member. Al!lioclated Col- legiate Press and <ltstrl- butor ot the Collegiate Digest. National Adver- tising Representative: Na- tional Ad vertlslng ServIce. Inc., College Publishers Ht>prest_~nta.tin~~. 4~0 ~ladi­ son Ave., N.Y. C. Pub- llahed every Fr.lday of the school year. Edltllrtal Oftlce,WMhburn Hall, Union College. Pub- lioo.tlon Otrlce, The Ga... zette Press, 3U State. St. Entered In the Schenec- tady Po!lt Otfice aa Sec- ond Class Mail Matter, subsctiptlon lOc a copy; $3 year delivered any- where In the United States. SEl'fiO•R BOARD .JOH:\f J. CARRTnY JR '51 .................... F.ditor-in-C'hief IRW1N S. BARG '63 ..................................... Sports Editor MONROE SILVERMAN '52 ..............•...••......•. Feature Editor AIJb'HEI> J,. tit >J,!·>HE!tli ER '[>-1 •••.•••••.•••••.•••••••••• ;:o.;ews ~~ditnt· MARTIN B. GOHlJON 'M ................................ Copy Editor llEHDl~HT IJ. ;i!'ll-tA '&4 .............•...•......•...•.•... c'.opy ~;ditor ALAN S: FORMAN '53 •.... , . . . • . • . . . . . . . • • . . • • . • Photography Editor GEORGE J. WHUBEL '53 ...................... , .••.. Business Manager HORACE VAN VOAS'T '52 ....•.••.••.•.. , •••..•• Circulation Manager JUNIOR BOARD MARTIN HAUSER '55 .......................... Assistant Copy Editor ALFRED H. KING ON '53 .................. , . Assistant Feature Editor HERBERT L. HilLER '52 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Exchange Editor HOWARD BHODY '52 ................................ Exchange Editor ROBER'!' SILVERMAN '53 .....•.......... Assistant Business Manager CUH.TIS BATB3 '53 ....•.•..•......... Assistant Circulation Manager REPORTERS Pet~r Adler, Marvin Boris, Herbert Guston, Richard Heimann, Gary Katz, Lewis Klein, Eliot Loshak, Martin Portnoy, Arthur Rosenfeld, Stewart Robinson, Walter Salm, Alfred Scott, Donald Simmons, David Smith, Arthur Stocltman, Herbert Williams, Paul GHbert. BUSINESS STAFF Joseph Allen, Robert Beck, Lawrence Greenberg. CIRCULATION STAFF J. Lowell Dnvis, .Joseph ~iat·tin, James Fitmauriee, Richard Borst, David Gregory, Gerardus Jameson. A Mutual Cooperation Policy See how it wiggles, Bruno, ki'rl(l of nice and cute. Letters to the Edi.tor Dear Editor: The College has done itself a Collen-e papers have long- been a medium for the airing grievous harm by so insisting that El ~ the students study. The College of student gripes. We feel that the Concordiensis has slipped has strongly emphasized that the speaker talks about matters which the students do not agree with him on, they will pay him strict attention if he is a good speaker. Even if he uses some practices of a demagogue, we will listen to him if he is good. in this respect, recently. For some time, despite editorial students should not take on too changes, the Concordiensis has expressed its alarm at the many extra-curricular activities so apathetic students that populate this campus. that they may have sufficient time to study, and now some students ROBERT BALLARD Up until now we feel that the hara:agues that have are carrying this forced habit over Dear Editor, . graced these columns have only pointed out the presence into the daily assemblies at the f h · d'ff Th d t tt't d t d · Chapel. There it does not look After reading the article on 0 SUC In 1 erence, e stu en a 1 U e, gran e , lS a good to see various students study- rushing appearing in the February problem, and we shall continue to view it as such. However, ing; they should be at least pre- 29 issue 'of your paper r feel com- it is entirely possible that at least some of the blame is on tending attention to the speaker. pelled to clear up a point on which the other side of the ledger; that is, with the college The College should not insist that l have been misinterpreted. students be such slaves to their The main point of my chapel administl·ation. books that they cannot have time <JUestion about meal rotation did The matter boils down to this: There is a lack of school to be courteous to chapel speakers. not involve the matter of decision pride. But, we charge that the administration is at least Some of the speakers may be blind about who to rush or pledge. It Pa rtly the cause of l't. That r'ntei·est 1'n the school is lacking- and will not notice this inattention, -was rather a criticism of the plan ~ but most of the speakers can see. as having been hastily thrown to- is a fact which is evident to us an. We see it in the empty But the fault is not entirely th.at gether on idealistic grounds with bleachers at basketball games, and in the failure of activi- of the College, for the College does little or no consideration of the ties to attract the needed student support. not encourage the reading of maga- mathematics involved. In prin- zines. Some students believe that cipal I support the concept of some Stiii, you can't drag people out to see a ball team which magazines provide interesting en- drre1·red rushing, but as put tor- can't win a fair number of its games. In the line of activi- tertainment for that \required\ vvard in a clear, concise, and man- ties, there has never been a general disdain; the necessity time spent in chapel. ageable program. So far I have The College should be reminded not seen a plan which covers the of activities has always been recognized. The attitude has of the students' attitude when pet·iod from before registration to been \a we need them, but let the other guy do it\ affair. they enter chapel. By the time through pledging, and which is There are a few remedies which we would like to that twelve· o'clock rolls around complete, readable, and even slight- d F - f all 'd l'k - most students have had a trying ly acceptable to the parties con- recommen . 1rst o , we 1 e to see an Improvement morning deciphering what their cerned. in administration-student relations. The Tippecanoe con- _ instructors have been trying to get There has now been submitted to ference is a step in the right direction, but we'd like to across. They have had their de- the IFC a plan which I believe see something of a broader nature. Perhaps, a smoker ciphering practice for the morning, does this, along with reasons for for the student body and the faculty and adml'nl'stratr\on and they will only attune their ears its form. However, most of the to understandable, in t e I' est in g delegates seemed· reluctant to even leaders would do the job. The students have shown that speeches. If the speaker's speech take it baclt to their houses for they will not settle for their activity leaders to represent qualities are not good, the stu- discussion. I can supply copies if them. An informal gathering of this nature would do dents will cease to pay real at- anyone is interested. I hope this much to SOlidify the campUS COmmunity, Which iS itself a tention to him unless they really- letter will clear Up any wrong im- want to hear what he has to say. pressions of my viewpoint which stimulus to campus pride. If the speaker does not appear y-our article conveyed. Secondly, since the indifference may be blamed on really sincere, the students will Sincerely. the general displeasure of Union students 'with Union itself, quickly lose interest. Even if the JOHN A. PRANKE why not .a little mutual cooperation in \selling\ Union? -----------------.::..:.=.:_:::_::_::~~:__ The men who pay their tuition here must be taught that p07 VQUT T.n -t~rma tz• this is \their'' institution, and to improve it is their· job. .1! ~ .1. 4 . .IJ I tl OR Why not, as a friend from Hamilton suggested, have the fraternities sponsor an athlete at Union. The college's part in this common project idea would· be a public relations program which would attract a ·superior brand of student. The makeup of the student body is es- sential to the bolstering of respect for Union. What we have tried to show is that the removal of c~mpus indifference is a \give a little, get a little\ proposi- tion. When the campus colony learns, through the ad- ministration's cooperation, that this is \our\ school· then and only then, will the student become active inst~ad of passive. -J. J. c. Results Tell the Story • As. we have pointed out above, the sports record at Umon m the past two years has been little to boast about. But thanks ·of Ray Mullane and his swimmers the situation is not completely gloomy. In his six years here Ray has produced teams that have- won 33 out of 52 meets and 18 of their last 20. In complet- i~g a 9-1 record at Union this year, coach Mullane has proved hrmself not only the most successful swimmin<>\ coach in the school's history, but perhaps the most versatile. . He has ~o;nverted ~en ~ith no past experience in· swim- mmg competition to pomt wmners on the va1·sity. His nata- tors have broken every college record, and a good share of the pool records in his stay here. The ~esults he. ha~ produced here have been a product ?f both hrs own sw1mmmg know-how and the rigorous train- mg schedule he has put his charges through. Regardless of the ,method.' the. res~Its speak for themselves. Let's hope Ray s stay m Umon rs ~ long one, and that his future teams are as successful as h1s 1951-52 edition. -J. J. c. SATURDAY, MAR. 8 - Exhibi- tion in honor of Victor Hugo, pre- pared by French Embassy con- tinues in Old Chapel through Mar. 15; Varsity Basketball, Union vs. RPI, Troy, 8:30 p.m.; Junior Var- sity Basketball, Union vs. RPI, at Troy, 7 p.m. SUNDAY, MAR. 9 - Sunday Serv- ices, Mr. Seymour Smith, Execu- tive Director, National Council on Religion in Higher Education, New Haven, Conn., MC, 11: a.m. MONDAY, MAR. 10 - Daily As- sembly, the Rev. and Mrs. Carl M. Sangree of American Friends, \The College • Ceveno]\ (International Preparatory School in Le Cha.mbon sur Lignon) MC, noon; Glee Club Rehearsal, OC, 7 p.m.; Junior Class Placement Meeting, CE-106, 7:30 p.m. TUESDAY, MAR. 11 -Daily As- sembly, Speaker, Prof. Malcolm E. McDonald, MC, noon; ·women's Staff Assn., OC, 12:30 p.m., speaker, Prof. Wm, T. Winne; UCCA (Mar- riage Course) OC, 4:30 p.m.; Union College Flying Club, CE Library, 7 p.m.; Placement Discussion, Bigelow-Sanford Company, Silliman Hall, 7:30p.m.; Public Meeting, DC, 8 p.m. Speakers, the Rev. and Mrs. Carl M. .Sangree of American Friends, \The College Cevenol\• American Rocket Society, CE-201: 8 p.m .. ; Engineers of Eastern New York CE 106, 8 p.m.; AIEE (Stu- dent Chapter) EE 22, 7:30 p.m.; Capping of Nurses, Ellis Hospital, MC, 8 p.m. WEDNESDAY, MAR. 12 - Union College Christian Assn. Lenten Service, Silli:lnan Hall, noon; Glee Club Rehearsal, OC, 4:30p.m.; Glee Club and Schenectady Women's Chorus joint rehearsal, OC, 7:15 p.m.; AIEE (Schenectady Section) IDE 22, 8 p.m.; Cooperative Even- ing Assemblies, Speaker, Dr. Roy M:ars.h~ll, of l!'ord Motor Company, teleYl'>~On reV!ew, \Science and So~ ciety\ MC, 8 p.m. Public cordially invited, 2 POINTS CREDIT for students; AIEE (Schenectady Sec- .tion) EE 22, 8 p.m. '1'1IURSDAY, MAR. 13 - Daily Assembly, Speaker, Mr. George H: oust on, Mgr., Manufacturing Training Section, General Electric Co0mpany, MC, noon; Placement discussion, G.E. Business Training Co0urse, OC, 4 p.m.; ASME, EE 22, 3 p.m.; Play Production Class presentation of \Angel Street\ M:onntebanks Theater. Curt!'tin 8:30, F<Jr reservations call 4-3693 oetween 1-~ p.m. Reservations held until 3:15. Make-Up Tests RegistJ.·ation for llll;loke-up tests ', f;o be given on Tuesday-Wed- · :nesda.y, March 18, 19, must be • • completed at the Office of t'he Eegi!i'tl~a.r before three o'clock, 'Wednesday, March 12. Smdents nust obta.in at the Registrar's Office a. .slip to be signed by : tihe instructor giving the course 'ancl return' the slip to the Of- . fice of the Registrar for the- . Dean's signature. Students ar~ required to pay a. regist:rlation fee -o:f <Jne dollar unless they present m1 excuse for illness f:rom Dr. Arony or were a.bse~t due to a;n authorized activity, Charlotte M. Rapelje, Registrar FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 1952 Austrian HELP Duo Laud Marshall Plan By Herberl Guston - The \Blue\ Danube still divides Viennf.l, into two parts, but one- of those parts is now Red. World War II has been over for seven years, and for us it is easy to forg·et. But for the Austrians? I wo:adered about this as I prepared for my interview with Uni0n's two Austrian students, Hans Tschurtschenthaler and Eric Gansmueller. Enter Hans and EriC! When I entered the\second .floor room at the Psi Upsilon house, I was pleased to .find Hans at his desk, and Eric, who had deserted the comforts of his room at the Phi Gamma Delta House, sprawled on the couch. Vienna born Hans is twenty-one years old, and his tall, heavily built frame, and ·amiable nature were familiar to me from the vagueness of an early morning class. Eric, a year younger than his compatriot, is .slender, 5'10\ in height, with 'blue eyes flashing from a hand- some countenance. We chatted about the War. Hans' father, a lawyer and former -mem- ber of the Austrian Parliament, had been seized as a political pris- oner by the Na.Zis in 1938. Interned at Dachau for two and a half years, he didn't return to hls family until much later. Eric served as a messenger for emergency crews during the Allied bombardment of his native city, Linz. Indifferent ro Propaganda Hans and Eric smiled when I mentioned the propaganda issuing forth from both the East and West. They felt that the Austrian people were simply indifferent to it. Eric said that the American Army was nat the finest representative of our democracy. Both pointed out that the French forces were the most disliked of the occupying powers. \The inability of the occupying powers to effec:t an economic union between the zones has seriously hindered the complete recovery of Austrian industry,\ stated Eric seriously. \Then too,\ continued the young economics major, \the Austrian government receives no benefit from the industries in the Russian zone.\ · Hans, who hopes to work in his country's textile industry after graduation, expressed the belief L. G. BAlFOUR CO. Fraternity Jewelers BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JE'WELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAmS OLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or call CARL SORENSEN 30 Murray Ave. Water!ord, N.Y. PHONE TROY-ADAMS 8-2523 GAZETTE that the recovevy of Gerni.any~s manufacturing potential would be beneficial to all of _ free Europe. Eric felt that the Fxench control of the Saar Basin would not ·be accepted by the Germans as a final settlement. Both abhorred the cur- rent attitude of self-importance is- sued .by the Bohn government, al- though they agreed that Germany must be an important part of any European confederation. Praise Schtunann Plan Hans, an internationalist :be- lieves that the only economi~ con- federation Austria should enter is one composed of the vast majority of the European nations. He en- thusiastically spoke of the Schu- mann Plan as one of the finest measures of the post-war era. Eric nodded in agreement as Hans men. tioned the Marshall Plan as the \backbol).e\ of Alfstrian economy. In comparing the educational systems of Austrian and the United States, Eric thought the Austrian schools allowed for a better gen- eral education, while the American i~stitutions ?ffered a better prac- tiCal education and a more con- genie! atmosphere. Hans referred to the American attitude of \take it easy\ as the most important in- gredient of Union College conviv- iality. Both boys are very pleased with frate:nity life; Eric , proudly in- formmg me several time \I am a Phi Gamm.\ Hans mentioned the absence of athletic teams, news- papers and other student activities at the Austrian universities. \Then too,\ he said, \the American pro- fe_ssors are much easier to speak Wlth; our professors don't even see you if you approach them after class.\ LUIGI•s RESTAURANT Specializing in Italian-American Food 1125 BARR.ETT ST. Schen. 6-9744 Enioy our Sizzling Steaks and Chops PRESS Printers A Good Name • • • 1s more to be desired than riches • . . and in the purchase of fine jewelry in this area, perhaps I1.Q name commands more confidence than Graubart & Sons. The name Graubart has become the answer when one is seeking a fine DIAMOND ... or an occasional piece of jewelry as a gift item. Visit this fine store when. you are jewelry minded. 166 JAY STRI:I!T ··Opposite Mohican FRID~ T succe::: RPI 6 places an O'i En gin The J recor-d Dick l backstr marlt c l:JniOI by cot in whi• Fink C< and 'Do firsts il 50-yard Phil ,M, diving -team o Fink ex lone dl free-st~ In C< len's rr back a Wi!Uan sive -sh their s had lit team < and gr records set in two a against ing w• Union Hamilt The winnin, to enc• Iiams 1 fought handed Ephme Union meet, college stroke With vacatic put hi ling d~ ticipati events. tion, t ning VI in am ers, D, new r• event. tramp! The six vic duing Union trail a college 100-yB-I racked triumr: ton ar closed a retu A to were ~ season prover tutela-! record year 1 220-ya establi 150-ya three mark Hartn baclts1 440-ya there Ear indivi• 135

ol al s- h a e FRIDAY,. NARCH 7, 1952 Swim ~Teain p,osts 9-1 Season Record 1952 Swimming· Team • Garnet Five Concludes ·Season Against R.P .Ie By Lew IDein By Gilbet1 and Ge1·tzog The Union College swimming team closed out its most· successful :;;eason last Satur€la,y, by t:nruncing arch-rival RPI 60-24, m Fo0t~ P~ol. The Dut~hme~ swept nine first places to take their s1xth consecutive vrdory and posted an overall 9;.1 seasonal record. The Garnet r·ipped the· · The Garnet comimen will journey to Troy tomorrow to face the Cherry and White of RPI in a tilt which will be the last of the season for both squads. Last Saturday, Hamilton staged a late rally to nip the Union cagers 51-49 in a hard fought contest before a prom weekend crowd in Clinton, New York. Engineers 59-25 earlier in the seas0n. · 78th Meeting $--------------------------~ A greatly improved Ren~selaer Hrutmann Sets 1\'Iark · hl' ht d b th b team will take the court against The meet was h1g 1g e Y e . Y Reiners and Dorse. Duffy, Fink, f f M Union tomorrow. Although R.P.I. recor-d breaking per ormance o etzger and• Oeismar were also' · th 200 d boasts only the same number of Dick Har-tmann m e -yar among the top point getters. Dur- · t hi victories as the Dutchmrn their backstroke event. Dick cu s own ing .. interc oH e giate competition mark of 2:'26 to a flashy .2 :25.1. Rei-ners collapsed nine college .fine performance lately against top Union. jumped to an. early lead. records. rate opposition spells trouble for by copping the 300-yard medley, ___ 0 _____ the Garnet. Recor:ds however have in which H2~rtmann., Muhlert and JV 9 CJ little meaning when these two Fink combined for a win. Reiners S . 9Se in Troy, dvals clash for the 78th time to- and Dorse g_uickly followed up with· L morrow evening. Union hasn't firsts in their events, the 220 and • ose t~ H. ·a·m·I·l·t~n copped a victory from the Engi- 50-yard free-style respectively, and \\' U n<·ers on the Troy court for a dec- Phil Metzger placed .first in a close The J.V. quintet, currently hold- ade, whi'le R.P.I. has been held win- diving ·event. The 400-yai:'d relay ing a 1-7 record, will close their less at Schenectady for the last ·team of Reiners, Dorse, Duffy and season against RPI tomorrow seven years. Thus, the Cherry and Fink ended the Garnet scoring. The n,ight, at 'Troy, On taking the Back row (le:ft to right): C~aeh :Ray Mullane, ma.scot Brion, White have a distinct advantage if· lone defeat came in the 44Q-yard court the G2~r-net will be looking· John Uuffy, Roger Hancher, Art Fink, John Bird, Dicit Hartmann, the jinx still holds. free-style. ,for a long soug·ht after win. to Howie Kloth, Werner Reiners, manager Frank Morgan. Front row The Dutchmen tool• advantage of In compiling a 9-1 record, Mul- end a seven game losing streak. In (left to right): Bob Dorse, Guy Cooper, Jim Farrell, Dick I.and, the homecourl hex to down the len's men suffered their lone set- the previous meeting of the two John Shei·wood, Cris MuiheJt, Dick Stark, Phil Metzger, Geny Poly basketeers 68-61, earlier in back at the Aands of a powerful clubs, the junior Engineers took a Geismar. the year. After trailing for most· Williams :squad. After an impres- 58-52 decision. C>f the game, the Garnet, sparked sive ·showing against Rochester in Just as last week's edition of by some fine shooting by Glenn their season opener, the mermen the Concordy was starting to cir- Alb. any A.cadem·y Land was awarded first place when Kinns, who wound up the evening had little trouble from RPI. The culate around campus, our JV's the Albany entry was disqualified with 25 markers, rallied and fin- team showed remarkable balance we:re taking the court against T:o· pS JV M.ermen for an illegal turn, during the race. ally tied the score late in the and great depth, as three college Hamilton at Clinton, N. Y. Due to 'The Military Academy boys got fourth canto. With three minutes records and one pool record were their accurate shooting and sharp Union's junior varsity swimmi.pg off to a quick start by taking the to go, Union had opened \lP a five set in the Rochester meet, and defense the Union cagers were on team ended its first season with opening medley .. relay event and point lead, and then coasted to an two other college records set the long end of a 25-21 half time a 1-2 record· when it lost to the 200 ;yard events. Among the other · easy win. This game ma!'ked the against the Engineers. The follow- score. In the· early minutes of the of Albany Academy, for point scorers for the horne team return to action of Bob Murray ing week, in a one-sided meet, second half, Sam Hammerstrom's the second time this season, on were John Sherwood, with a second who had been handicapped all sea- Union roiD.ped over a visiting aggregation ·built up a nine point Wedn:esday afternoon. Mullane's .place in the dive, and John Bird son with a wrist injury. However, Hamilton squad. bulge. The bubble burst shortly second squad was downed· by a with a second in the 100 yard baclt- since his return, Murray has come The natators, then sporting a afterwards, however, as Union lost score of 41-33 after gaining their stroke event. along and now is showing flashes· winning sk.ein of three, prepared its lead and came out on the short. initial triumph over the RPI jay- The jayvee's only win was an of his old 1950 form in becoming to encounter a highly rated WH-. end of a 47-45 score. vees the previous Saturday. · t p G an invaluable rebounder and play- easy VIC ory over R I. uy maker. liams swimming team. In a hard Bob WC>od-worth, sinking 12 Cris Mulhert and Gerry Ramsieg Cooper led the scoring for the fought contest, the Dutchmen were ppints for the Garnet, was the high. were the only individual winners home team with two first places. Nadasky Leads Scorers handed their first setback, as the scorer. Earlier in the year the for the Dutchmen. Mulhert, who In that early season fray with Ephmen overpowered a fighting. Dutch boys r.net Hamilton, in has been one of the most promising 1,;-------------~--:. :=;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;::=;;;;;;;;;;;;;=ij Union teaiD.. In the course of the Union's opener, and the Garnet freshmen during the season, copped·· \Athlete of Week\ IT meet, Dick Hartmann se't a new • won 37-36. the in.divadual medley event, with college recol'd in the 200-yard baclt- -----0----- teammate Dick Land also swim- stwke event. · K t H f l Aft ming 'a strong race. Mulhert won ' Fordha-m Edged Out e Z . · :()pe U er easily after starting out very quick- As an added feature to our coverage of Union sporting events, the Concordy will select . in each forthcoming issue an ' \Athlete of the Week.\ This With a two week .mid-semester 1st Traclr Practi·ce lyon the breaststroke lap, but had vacation at hand, Coach Mullane . :L his lead cut as he faded on the 50 put his swimmers through gruel- Coach Bill Ketz was very pleased yards of freestyle. · athlete will be picked on the basis of his athletie perform- anele displayed during intercol· legiate competitiOn, ling .daily practice sessions, in an- with the enthusiastic turnout of Win on Disqualification ticipation of t h e forthcoming the candidates for the track team Union's closing 200 yard relay events. Resuming competitive ac- as team practice got underway last team composed of Don. Matteson, .uon, Union continued on its win- Monday afternoon. Over fifty men. fB~o~b~C~h~a.~r~t~o~ff~,~J~o~h~n~B~ir~d~,~a~n~d~D~·~ic~k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ning ways by edging out Fordham turned ouf in the gr:m for the in- in a meet here. The team of Rein-· itial trials, featuring many return- ers, Dorsa, Duffy and Fink set a ing .lettermen. new record in the 1100-yard relay Ketz plans to build this year's event. Paced by Reiners, Union team around his returning stars, trampled City Colleg of New York. among them Riwis;, Trotter, Dolan, The \Flying Dutchmen\ made it Clough, Klingberg, and Murray, six victories in seven star.ts by sub- Among the freshmen who turned duing the Coast Guard Academy. out, there a.re many promising Union maintained its record setting prospects who can bolster the trail as Reiners again set a new strength of the track team for the college ·record, this time in the· r.ough schedule that they wiii face 100-yard fr-ee-style. Mullane's men this season_ ~ERRO'S RESTAURANT Mr. and Mrs. Geo~ge Ferro, Proprietors I 115 Bar.rett St. PRIVATE ROOtvl FOR PARTIES Specializing in Jtallan-American Food PHONE 6-9554 GUERRA'S PHARMACY • Fountain Prescriptions Sundries • bOO Union St., Cor. Barrett St. the Engineers, the Garnet did a great job in holding down R.P.I.'s prolific scorer, Bruce Cardell, to 13 points, a faz· cry from his sen- sational high of 32. NevNtheless, the Dutchmen will have a new threat to contl'nd with tomorrow night. Big Vic Nadasky has jumped into the team scoring lead and now is averaging close tC> 12 points per game. The playmaker of the squad, which boasts thJ:ee seniors and two freshmen, is 5' 11\ Phil Brock whose deadly set shot is always a threat to any Engineer opponent. The two fz,cshmen, cen- ter Chuck Carr and forward Vie Nadasky have acquired a lot of pC>lish since the beginning of the season and now fit much more smoothly into the R.P.I. scoring machine. Bob Halloran, lanky guard, who holds down third place in the Cherry and White scoring averages, rounds out the team. George Sirilla whose brilliant showing in the last two games may indicate a return. to the form which made him a starter last year is slated for plenty of action. Other Engineers tagged for con- <Continued on Page 4) Dean Martin Jerry Lewis Plus JUNGLE JIM LONE STAR Clark Gable Ava Gardner Plus racked up their seventh and eighth Though it is still too early to triumphs in clashes with Hamil-· make any predictions, Coach Ketz ton and. Rochester. The splashers is confident about his prosp.ects closed out the 1951-52 season with and looks forward to a fine sea- a retuxn •engagement against RPI. son. The :first opponent for the 16 :Root)rds Broken track and field men will be Roch- so easy Tie this one, if you can! A totaJ.of 16 new college records were set during the course of the season, and to cite the steady im- provement of the team under the tutelage of Coach ;Mullane, 66 records have been set over a three year span. Reiners broke the old 220-yard free-style with his 2:22.5, established the record in the new 150-yard individual medley event three times, and hung up a new mark. of 5:18.2 in the 440. Dick Hartmann lQwer~d the 200-yard bacltstroke time to 2:25.1, an.d the 440-yard relay team swam h6me in the record time of 3:48. Hartmann topped the team in individual scoring, followed closely 1 -----·----------------~ famous Chinese and I American Foods 'ester, on .April'19. a storeful of Fine Gif ts to on the neck W ea1· it with tie LUM FUNG Restaurant send home Arrow Bi- Way 3.95 •• , wea1· it without for sports. BEST LIQUORS AND COCKTAILS 135 ~::~~:y. • . ~h·o-:~:~9.5 J SCHENECTADY. N,Y. 147 JAY STREET with the amazing Arafolcl collar-complete comfort and perfect a.ppearance •.. collar open • • • or closed and worn with a tie. Put on a tie for dress, go withont for casnal wear. Either way you'll have the absolute tops in com· fort, plus the last w~rd in style - combined in one great shirt, th.e JH-W ay. Like all Arrow shirts, Bi-W ay is Mitoga•cut for trim fit, \San· forized\·labeled for permanent go~~ looks. NUSBAUM~§ ~ 447-451 STATE STREET a-.---- !_OR ARROW lJNIVERSl'l'): S'i:-r~S !!ll!lll ___ _. Thel'e's no better-looking, more comfortable, all purpose shirt on campus! ARROW BI-WAY Collar open, it assures you a trim look-closed, and with a tie, you still enjoy sports-shirt comfort! ARROW ~ . . \\-·-·----·- ,.,.,..., __.. SHIRTS • TIES • SPORTS SHIRTS • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS

:- 4 FRIDAY, t-fARCH 7, '1952 St. Andrew·s Dram; a· Initiation Is Near; Basketball 'Placement News :::!:is·d~f!le~:de.;}i~l t~nt~~~~~ Hell U '• .. n .. t. ~ Here ·(Continued· from Page 3) · thMr.GR. J.l CEan:n 1 ' itngi, Pcirector ~f here March 20 if we can get slli- . F u · e enera · ec r c · ompany s: ficient proof of Interest. Please U d D • d t . siderable duty include freshman Business Training Course, will in-' let us know before Tuesday. Men n er . tsa van· .ages Another Helt:Weelt is ·drawing to Sam Toperoff, a fancy guard, and terview here on Friday, March 14.· with general scientific background· a close, and the· scores of sleepy Bob Bergazzin, ·6' 3\ pivotman. Other represel'ltf;l.tives will be on are suitable for this· work. Tllis is the second in what the$•------~~-------- eyed freshmen who can be seen In last Saturday's return engage- hand 1;1ext week from S. S. Kresge staggering m·ound' the campus are ment with Hamilton, the Contin- :co., Armed Forces Security Agency, Will engineers let us know at Concordy llopes will be a series of ,................................................. t 1 d · d th h th th · t t d · • • a living testirno:nial of its success~ en a s ma e goo on · e second ·Allied, Stores, Link Aviation Inc., once w e er ey are m eres e . m letters from Professor Carl Nie- l c l . Although many of the fraterni- try by ove1•coming a nine :point Bigelow-Sanford Carpet Co., Bal- Bemis Bag Co. of E. Pepperell, meyer, who is murently at St. l a ffi p U S : ties decided to d.o away with a . fourth period Union lead to tie, tim ore .& Ohio Railroad, and. Ma::;s., WaUace & Tiernan: of .New- Andrews University in Scotland. ! · . · . !·,strenuous initiation period this and then,. after· a red hot closing- Digital Computer >La]:loratory of ark, N. J., Frankford Arsenal, • : · year, and ·haVElf :substituted more , rally, win on Bill Wetherbee's one. M.I.T. Philadelphia, or Rochester Gas & i:.·. c u 111 11 n g tQ ~:: constructive meas.ures of putting : hander; American Cyana~id .co. to. see , Electric Co.? Dear Editor- Courses in public speaking and stagecraft are not to be found in the St. Andrews catalogue, and The Mermaid Dramatic Society, which presents three pla}'S a year, one a term, is purely extra-curricular. It must malie heavy demands on its members' time, recalling the classic British epigram, recently quoted by Denis Brogan of Cambridge, that the three most deterrents to under- graduate study are music, the theatre, and a virtuous attachment. The Mermaid labors under some disadvantages which would be familiar to American Little Theatre groups in a university or out. There is no good theatre in the town of St. A-ndrews, and plays must be given in the dining room of the Men's Union. This is about as well adapted to use as a theatre as most larg!l dining rooms. There is a small stage at one end. A large theatrical portt\ait looking like someone out of an opera by Verdi or a novel by Scott proves, on close inspection, to rPpresent the Mar- quess of Bute in the academic dress of Rector of St. Andrews Univer- sity. In this unpromising settir:g the Mermaid manages to give some in- ten•sting performancPs. That of Fleckpr's spectacular Hassan sev- eral years ago, which must have taxed everyone's resources and in- genuity, has become a le~end among both students and staff. The first play of this year was Shaw's Majo1• Barbara; the second, given last week, was Congreve's \1\\ay of the \\\orld. They are bold choice~ fen· a student dirc>ctor working with a student cast, hut both pt•rform- ances were rt•mur·kably ).;oud. In both \plays the emphasis is on the talk. The plots are entirely unim- portant, though Congreve's is so complicated that you think at first it must mean somc·thing. Style alone keeps these plays nliY<>. In both the actors ,;poke thG language well, and tlw plays emc>rgt•d a11 th0y should-- as works of wit and idPas. The :\it>rn:aid stage is too !<mall to ~ugge:;t prOlll'l'ly thr spac>ious for- mality of a Re:;towtion drawing IOorn. ur • in the Shaw I the interior of a millionaire's house. Thus in spite of some inspired work by the stage staff, most of the illusion had to be conveyed by the actinf. There i::; une ulhcr lheatrl' in St. Andn·ws, besides the two movies. This is the nne. The word mt>ans \cowshed\ a~d indicates what tht· building was originally. It is about the size of n largish L'nion College classroom. The seats are ir.geni- ously uncomfortable, and the build· ing drafty. The play0rs are pro- fessionals. nnd thP dramatic fare is light. Since Christmas the Eyre has been closed, but it will reopen in time for the summer visitors. The two picture houses show plenty of American \flicks but the British, as some Americans may still be surprised to know, also make moviPs which, at their best, are excellent. The> best includes aln:ost anything- with Alec Guin- ness, particularly the recent Lav- ender Hill Mob. French pictures are also availab!P, such as JacquPs Tati in ,Jour dt> FetP, which is now on Broadway. At lea:;t I saw a sniffy and supercilious review of it the other day in my international edition of the New Yorli TimPs. \VP in St. Andrews saw severn! months ago, I thin!\ without dam- age to our morals, La Rondt>, from which the New York censors are pr-otectir.g their fellow-citizens. It is a movie version of Schnitzler's RPigPn, SPt in Paris instead of ViPnna and prt>sented with Gallic RmoothnPss a·nd charm. Finally thc>re is the St. Andrews Film Society. \Meeting-s\ are on Sunday night and pr0s0rt old films of unu~ual interest. including those of the Marx Brothers, for whom the Briti!'h hnvP a high rPgard: Harold Lloyd; the c>arly Disn<'y, be- fore he> became> unbPnrably cute and sentimenal; and many forc>i~n films. St. Andrews is a small town, but for variety and interpst its theatre> compares quite favor- ably with Schenectady's. CARL NIEMEYER, Ft>bruary 25, 1952 C)) the latent powe1• of their pledges. to work, there were still many fra- ~ ....... a.. .. ....... ; ternities wllicl;l· have continued to· Ho Hum! Another column rolls rely on the \rock 'em and sock around. Well, let's see what we 'em\ technique: have on the docket for today. Don't Wa.ke. Me, Prof. Pleasure~ (\The Massachusetts Collegian.\) Once again .classes have become. ¥ If. :;. The following is respectfully a boon to the .poor pledge, since 1 ~· < t:/J,e sov relgn bliss plagial'ized from the \Wesleyan this often affords him the only· Argus: \Ego Blasting De.partment\ time has has to sleep in the course d ·t of a day, and his day's are long . . . · Ye Olde Exchange E 1 or re- The week has •been marked with ceived a copy of a North Carolina Newspaper while he was home at the usual pledge trips,. morning o/ humankind calisthentics, aad long scenic mid- Christmas. The front page was night walks through the glorious loaded with campus news, i.e. Stu- countryside that surrounds the city dent Government Elections, a pro- .A:lexander Pope, January and lf1a;y fessor branded a Communist, of Schenectady ·~within a 100 mile radius). twenty boys suspended for break- By now, however, the stagger- ing the honor system, a raid on ing pledge is almost at the end the Duke campus, a co-ed found 'of his trail, and he is not too ex- dead, and a scandal in grades con- hausted to count the few remain-· cerning the Tarheel's football team. ing days until initiatiGn, and to Yet the editor did not write an mutter, whenever he is out of ear- editorial on any of these subjects. shot of the a..cti ves, \wait 'till next To quiet thinking or quick action, ice-cold Coca-Cola brings the pleasure of real refl'eshment. Instead, the subject of the editorial year!\ was, CAN YOU SPELL 'DOODLY -;;;;;;;,;;;;;,;;;;;,;;;;;;;;;;;,;;;;;,;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;,;;;;;,;;;;;,;;~ SQUAT' .''It concerned itself with r boasting about the present college student being a better speller than· hi:; parents were.\ · :(. If. :(. Department of Lucid Explanations tFrom \The Student Revolution\ in the Syracuse \Dai·ly Orange\) ... \When in the course of student affairs, it became necessary for several campus leaders to suggest in the prE:'sent student government set-up, it seems only fitting and proper that some explanation be made thereof.'' :(. ¥ 1{. Expprlments in International Life t From thc \Fredonia Leader\) ... \On ·wednesday the Interna- tional Relations Club will have as gu<'st speakers, :Mr. and Mrs. Chag- non. Mr. and Mrs. Chagnon are the r~presentatives in this area, for brining foreign students in American homes.\ :(. :(. ¥ (From the ''Syracuse Daily Or- ang-e>''! ... \In 1609 the> Cavaliers from England invaded Virginia and conquered the Indians. In 1952 the Snltire Warriors invade Virg-inia nnd hope to conquer the C•walier,.\ \VP're all for it, power tPnds to corrupt. Baseball Notice Bas1•ball coMh Art Lawrt\nce announced yestprday that all \arsity baseball candidates should rpport in the gym 1\Ion· day, Marcil 10 at 1:00 p.m. In- door practicl' will bPgin \\ithin thE' next wel\.k as soon as tile nPtting is installt\d in tile gym. Any sophomores interested in a managerial post are also en- couraged to report at that time. ' • Waiches, Jewelry Clocks Repaired • Engraving, too! ·• ~Jay Jewlery Co. James Restaurant • GOOD FOOD at prices you can afford. Booth and Fountain Service 42~ Stcte Street BOmED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE ·COCA-COLA COMPANY BY SCHENECTADY· COOA..CO:LA. BOTTLING OOMPANY \Coke\ is a registered trade-mark. (g) 1952, THE COCA·COLA COMPANY ·we conducted a poll* of '41 graduates to find out: HOW HAVE THEY MADE OUT IN 10 YEARS WITH GENERAL ELECTRIC? Here are the results: I. TRAINING. On the average, college graduates who came with General Electric in 1941 have taken between three and four Company-run training courses. Some ha'Ve talen as many as seven. These have included courses in business management and accounting, in sales, manufac· tw·ing, and in many phases of engineering. Graduates re· port that this training has been a hig help in furthering th.eir careers. As one expressed it: \These courses are essential to certain fields of endeavor--so essential I am still signing up for additional courses.Z' Other comments: ••These programs are not the purely acadeJUic ones ·Of school days. Th.ey are practical, inte1·est· ing, enable one to do a better job and enjoy it more.li \The G·E Sales Training Program was definitely instru· mental in helping me find my present position.~l The train· in!! programs have been a very essential link between my college training and my present work.U cci wish I could have known then how valuable these courses were going to be later.~: \'They confirmed my original opinion th.at G.E. offered the best training for engineersJ~ 2. EXPERIENCE. These graduates have had an average of three different rotating assignments in various phases of tl:te Company's work. A typical example included assign· menta in radio test, in motors and generators, and in the in<illStrial control development laboratory. Graduates e:x· press three main !)enefi.ts derived from the G-E rQtational job programs: a. They provided opportunities for deciding on a defi- nite field of interest. Typical comment: •ci didn't know what kind of work I wanted to do. Rotating assignments helped me make up my mind.l~ b. They complemented college training with practical experience. \They helped me realize methods of manu- facture and testing of different apparatusJ3 c. They provided valuable associations and contacts. \Changing jobs five times brought me a variety of friends and contacts I'm still grateful for/' 3. PROGRESS AND ADVANCEMENT. 88 per cent reported that they felt their progress in General. Electric has been satisfactory. Nine per cent described their progress ' •• ·~ . h hr . .. as average, 80·80,• Mt t ee per cent reportmg un- satisfactory. ~a Comments: ''It's been no lloratio Alger St1ccess story, but I feel pretty good about it.~~ \If next 10 years have the same trend, will be very happy.~l •csatisfactory and entirely. fairJl ''I don't know anyone on the outside who has done any better in the same timeJl \Satisfactory. I've been a G-E salesman, field engineer, and am now group leader in a G-E design engineering department.'! ~·I have felt like a kid in a candy story owned by his father. There are lots of choices and his only problem is to pick out what he likes hest.1' :ICFocfs ancl statements in this advertisement were compiled fr.o.m _a questionnaire submitted to '41 graduates still with General Electric. Participants returned questi9nnaires unsigned, enabyng them to be full and frank in their answers. SAVE 15'% ON FOOD COSTS SAVE 15% fjou ca?t ~ ,ra ~~ m .... NOTT RESTAURANT AND BAR For Quick Take-out Orders Call Sch.--6-9766 Raw, Steamed Clams \Meet and Eaf at EDDIE'S\ 547 Nott St., opposite Green Gate Schenectady, N. Y~ MEAL TICKETS--$6.75 for $5.00 GENERAL. ELECTRI·C .. ----- Vol~ 7 FJ A T meeth interr1 cound tio:n c p()sed enterl The entity, dances spirit E of 1956 will b• at. a st day,. M If a would porary until t One. oJ ing SU! of de< will bt at the tioned did m• ship < not co cent •o in the The from this ir has a~ school ment notabl r.ivalrl plete, the re lng bJ. develo Into a than the st A n Counc study aim i missi< and t featec decisi study .p:rODII being In· ga,tbe that I Cam~ comp ThE tlie 1 readl repor this l ·Lynn Burn from Vo La: Ge1 dent the I polls the : Tues tlons a L cour1 Th :p1•ed expe old depa mak ()rde fact1 <lict! viou such picb stan tatic In Eise vote E. E Art! was voti Den tOIJI ing lnst

.- U. S. Economy Symposium Pages 3 and 4 Vol~ 79, No. 17. T mtamnu!l 3Juhilrr Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 1952 ~ • \Angel Street\ Review Page 6 PRICE 10 CENTS

2 Letters to the Editor G.tnurnr Member Aesociated Col- legiate .Pl'8Ss and distri- butor or the Collegiate Digest. National Adver- tising Representative: Na- tional Ad vertlsing Service. Inc., College Publishers Representative, 4~0 :lla<li- oon Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lished e,·ery Friday of the s<:hool year. Editorial Ortloo,Washburn Ha.ll, Un·ion College. Pub- lica tlon Oft lee, The Ga- zette Press, 3~4 State St. En tared in the Schenec- tady Post Otfice as 8eo- ond Cl!lSiS Mail Matter, subscription lOc a copy; ;a year delivered all')\- where in tbe United States. SENIOR BOARD JOH:s' J. CA:->SIDY JIL '::i3 ........................... Editor-in-Chief IRWJN S. BARG '53 ..................................... Sports Editor MONROE SILVETUlAN '5~ .......................... -. Feature Editor .\LFI:J~n I •. Gtli,I1J:I·:ma:n '51 .......................... :s'ews Editor li!ARTIN B. GORDON '51 ................................ Copy Editor !I EHDEHT L. SPl HA '54 ............................ - ..... C<Jpy Editor ALAN S. FORMAN '53 .......................•... Photography Editor GEORGE J. WHUBEL '53 ......................•..... Business Manager HORACE VAN VOAS'r '52 ....................... Circulation Manager JUNIOR JJOARD MARTIN HAUSER '55 .......... , ..... , , ...... , .Assistant Copy Editor ALh'HED l:!. Kl.NU!JN '53 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A.ssista.nt Feature Editor HERBERT L. HILLER '52 ............ , .......•• , -.. Exchange Editor HO\VARD BHODY '52 ................................ Exchange, Editor ROBERT SILVEIUJ:AN '53 .....•....... , .• Assistant Business Manager CURTIS BAT·ES '53 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Assistant Circulation Manager R.EPOR.TERiil Peter Adler, Marvin Boris, Herbert Guston, Richard Heimann, Gary Katz, Lewis Klein, Eliot Lo:;hak, Martin Portnoy, .Arthur Rosenfel?, Stewart Robinson, Waiter Salm, Alfred Scott, Donald Simmons, David Smith, Irwin Uertzog, Her-bert Willi.<ms, l'aul Gilbert, Donald :\1ohr, I<'relleric Morri~. \\~alter 'l'o\\'er, Hoger Feinstein. BUSINESS STAFF Joseph Allen, Rob.ert Beck, Lawrence Greenberg. CII!.CULA.TIO.N STA.FF J. Loweil Davis, Joseph :.lartin, James Fitmaurice, Richard Borst, Dal'id Gregory, lieranlu,; Jame~ull, H1chard Lewis. Writer Attacks Feinberg Law Dear Editor: After having heard the Philo· mathean Forum as .presented this past Monday evening over WRUC, upon the topic of the controversia;! Feinberg Law, I would Uke to commend the proponents of -both sides of the argument for a :good presentation of their cases. However, I find :that ;r must dis- agree with the ad vacates of the law, and even with the majority of the Supreme Court which up- held its con~tittition•ality. The law prescribes that the New York Board of Regents will have· the power to call for the investigatiqn of any teacher in the New York State public schools who is a mem- ber of any organization which ad- vocates the violent overthrow of the United States government. Un- doubtedly, it is the purpose of thls law to prevent the teaching of seditious dogma of foreign powers which strikes at the ·basic concepts of the American way of life. However, this law also makes it possible to bring. any teacher to trial before the Board of Regents -sitting as an all powerful judge -for merely belonging to a sub- versive organization, whether ~r not he or she taught information regarded as \un-American.\ The advocates of the law in the Philomathean debate argued that • it would not be upon th!l testimony The Reasons for Our Symposia of \one or two persons, or even five\ that the Board would con- This \Veek the Concordiensis is continuing a policy that viet a teacher. I ask: Upon the h f t' th testimony of how many, and of it started last term. This policy is t at O presen mg e whom, can a teacher be convicted? world and national problems to the students, in the form What constitutes guilt in this situ- of a symposium, as discussed by a panel of students who ation? Is the Board of Regents to are vitally interested in these problems. This edition deals l;>e allowed to prescribe the rights of the teachers? with the future of United States economy. l d ' t bl' h It has always been my under- We feel that we have a trust Pace lll us o pu IS stanoding that, according to Ameri- what the student body should read. What motivates our can tradition, a person is innocent symposia usage is the disparity tbetween what the students until proven guilty. However, want to read and what they should read. Our proposal is under the Feinberg Law, the situ- . 1 d t' 1 ation becomes, in essence, that a that contemporary pl\Oblems of both umversa an na wna person is guilty until proved In- scope are what the students should read. However, if we nocent. It is often highly difficult can bring the student out of his little shell we think any for a person-probably even more- manner in which we do this is justified. If we can produce so in the case of a teacher who is Stlldent \ who want to face the problems in the_ir broadest in a rather delicate position-to \' overcome the stigma or suspicion scope, the end justifies the means. of having been brought to face Although the Concordiensis is primarily a campus charges of teaching \un-American\ P ublication dedicated to supply campus news, as well as ideas or belonging to a \subversive\ . d b d organization, being a medium of expression for the entire stu ent o y, l 't has other obligations. One of these obligations is to keep Perhaps we are lapsing irto that type of orthodox: thinking which the student awar·e of what is going on in the world around Justice William o. Douglas has so him. If our symposia can produce any semblance of this · vehemently warned against in a awareness, we will be satisfied. recent article in the New York ·Our panel does not pretend to be expert, but they are Times. It is possible that we are coming to dwell in fear of being interested. That is our aim; not to make you experts, labeled \subversive\ if our views necessarily, in the matters we discuss, but to arouse all are not consistent with those of you to these problems. handed down to us. -J. J. c. Blood Drive Needs Your Support Repre-sentatives in the fraternity houses and dormitories will, in the next week, begin an active campaign to solicit pledges of blood donations from Union men for the Armed Services blood bank. The goal has been set, we hope not too high, for 500 pledges. . In line with these plans, there is an attempt being made to bring rnembe1·s and facilities of the Schenectady Red Cross blood collection service to campus sometime after spring vacation. A mass donation of this nature will na- turally attract off-campus publicity. I feel that it is definitely a dif- ficult problem, It is possible that we should not allow the preaching of doctrines which tear down the basic freedoms, among them free- dom of speech, which allows per- sons the right to speak these opinions freely. This is an abuse of the rights accorded to the American citizen. However, we may be abusing that right ourselves, anc~ in the course of events, may be injuring the lives and reputa- tions of many ilmocent people by adhering to such a law. Perhaps the best way to defeat opposing ideas is to allow them to stand or faH on their merits, or to ·allow them to be torn down :in a battle with our own ideas, and not by legislating that which is right or wrong. Very ~incerely yours, AVRO;M GOLD :f. :(. 1(. Defe1· Rushing to Second Semester Dear Editor: I was so1·ry to read in your last week's editoriaf that you are in· favor of having the fraternities sponsor an athlete at Union. In almost every case of .bribery and ce>rJ•uption ii): connection with cole l'ege sports, subsidized athletes were at fault. Also, if we subsidize one athlete, soon we'll be probably sub- sidizing ·a team or two. The aver- age student would find it almost impossible to W·ih a p}ace on a team. The prime objective of ·sports at Union would become, \How much wifl I get, if I play?\ I a:lso have read with interest the various plans. of rushing that have beeh proposed. It seem13 that the most effective rushing, system would be one that benefits. the stu- dents as well. as, the .fraternities. The proposed plans all' try to sa,.t- isfy the fraternities financial prob- lems first, ·and, if it makes it tough for the students, that's. too bad. It's a :selfish attitude and some fliaternities. ate content with it. For example, one of the new plans, the rotation meal ·plan, would force the West College Cafe- teria to close from lack of financial support. The cuisine may not be ex:cellent but closing the ca:('eteria would cause a hardship on the fraternities w·ithout kitchens, the Independents, and the· freshman, It would tend to force all students into joining a. fraternity that has a house 1 -whether they liked it or not. I propose that we d'efer rushing until the second semester and let. the fraternities adjust to the change as best they may. True, they will have a lean ;y;ear or two, but in the long run both student~ and fraternities will benefit. After all, which is the more important- the students or the fraternities? Yours, DON GRUNEWALD P.S. Why doesn't the Student Council ha:ve the final say on rush- ing rules when they affect virtually all of the students ?-D:G. If. :(. :(. Wants Less N Qise In the Librar~ Dear Editor : This letter is a complaint di· rected against those people who seem to think that the college li- brafy is a public discussion and social hall. These inconsiderate persons will hold long, loud ai).d apparently hilarious conversations at any time an:d any place, with no concern for those who happen to be studying nearby. Talking. in the library should be at an minimum, and nece:;;sary conversation kept at a whisper, Perhaps the library staff might attempt to set an example for the students. The library could well use a little more decorum. To paraphrase an old adage: Do we study in your rumpus room? Please don't romp in our library .. Sincerely, LAWRENCE H. ROCKLAND UndouMedly most of you, at one time or another have heard the question \Why should colleg:e men be deferred?\ If explanations don't serve to answer this question, perhaps such a popular mass action as blood donations would suffice. Many of you have given blood at Ellis h()spital, and have received a consideTable sum for your contribution. How- ever, the blood given at Ellis stays at Ellis; it is for that institution's own use. For Your Information The blood which iR collected on this campus during the forthcoming drive is for wounded servicemen. Our goal is 500 pints. It has been said that college men don't deserve deferments: let's prove that the people who say this are wrong. Let's make the campus blood drive an overwhelming vindication of Union and her students. -J.J.C. Invite Your Parents Early Within the next \Veek, letters will he sent \to the parents of each member of the student body, announcing the second annual Parents Weekend, April 18-20. The Delphic Society, with the cooperation of the administra- tion, is fast completing the agenda for the affair. Last year, Parents Weekend was a rousing success, echoed by the approval of the visitors. Plans are being drawn up this year to make the event even more successful. In addition to class room visits, living quarters are to be opened, and the parents will have every chance to see all the facilities that the school offers. But with all the work that the Delphics do, the success or failure of the weekend depends on the support it re- ceives. The support that is forthcoming is due in a large part to the part that you, the student, play. We urge you to ask your parents to attend. The three day period set aside for the affair will be most enjoyable, and we hope that you will be sure that your parents take advantage of it. -J. J. c. FRIDAY, MAR. 14-Play Produc- tion Class, \Angel Street,\ by Pat~ rick Hamilton, Theater, 8:30 p_m, Phone 4-3693 for reservations. (Re- servations held until 8:15 p.m.l SATURDAY; MAR. Hi-Beta Eta Upsilon, Mess Hall, 7 p_rn.; Play Production Class ''Angel Street\ by Patrick Hamilton, Theater, 8:30 p.m. Phone 4-3693 for reservations. SUNDAY, MAR. 16--Sunday Serv- ice, Preacher, Dr. Paul Swain: Haven, President of Wilson Col- lege, Chambersburg, Penna., MC, 11 a.m.; Sears Roebuck Interviews OC, 7:30 p.m. (Wives invited), MONDAY, MA&. 17-Daily Assem- bly, Program by Student Council, MC, noon; Air Science Guest Lec- ture, MC, 4:30 p-m.; Glee Club Re- · hearsal, OC, 7 p_m.; Board of Man- agers, Hale House Lounge, 7 p.m.; Second Geological Conference, Geol. Lab. 7:30 p.m.; institute of Radio Engineers, EE, 22, 8 p.m. Tt:J'ESDAY, MAR. 18-MAKE UP TESTS; Daily Assembly, Speaker, Prof. Malcolm McDonald, MC, noon; Union College Christian Assn. (Marriage Course) OC, 4:30 p.m.; Union College Flying Club, CE Library, 7 p.m.; Placement Dis- cussion, W. T. Gra!lt & Company, Silliman Hall, 7:30 p.m_; AIEE <Student Branch), ~E 27, 7:30p.m.; American Rocket Society, dE 106, 8p.m. WEDNESDL'tY, MAR. 19-MAKE UP TESTS, Union College Chris- tian Assn. Lenten Service Silliman Hall, Robert A. Smith, leader, noon; Glee Club Rehearsal; OC, 4:30p.m.; Joint Glee Club Rehear- sal <with Schenectady Woman-'s Club Chorus) OC, 7:15 p.m.; AIEE (Schenectady Section) EE 22 8 p.m. . ' THURSDAY, MAR. 21J-,-Daily As• sembly; Speaker, Mr. Morris M. Cohn, MC, noon; ASME EE 22, 8· p.m.;. Play Production Class \Angel Str-eet,\ Theater, 8:30 p.m. For re- servations, call 4-3693. FRIDAY, MAR. 21~AD-INTERIM Scholarship Report; Daily Assem- bly, Recital, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, MC, noon; Faculty Woman's Club, OC, 8 p.m_; Play Production Class, \Angel Street,'• Theater, 8:30 p.m. For res·ervations ca11 4-3693, Freshman Camp Students fu.terested fu a.ppJY- ing for positions as ~ounsellors at Fresh:ma.n <lamp may pick up application blanks in the Stu-· dent Activities office. All appli• cations shcmld be fine(( out and retllrned t~ that office not later than Friday, :Match 28. Ail stu- dent<J are eligible to apply. • .. :FRIDAY, MARCH 14. 1952 so·UND AND FURY Uy Monroe Sllve-.:ma.n The Feinberg Law was passed by the ;New York 'State Legili!lature (1949)· in an atmosphere of •hys- teria and wa,s up- b.eld by the B.S. Supreme C o u r t {March 4, 1952; 'by a vote of 6 to 3) in an era of fear. This law another. of the many recent leg- ,is'la.tive act which attempt ,pnevent coJnnlUll- iSm by rel!trlcting liberty. 'L'he Feinberg Law p~·ohibits the employment in New York public schools- ·of any ,person who· adovo• cates the forceful overthrow of any u;s. Government, or who belpngs to any organization to advocating, Mere membership in such an or- :ganization is prima facie grounds for dismissal. The act empowers the ~oard of Regents to set up. rules for the discha1•ge of teachers and to draw up a list of ·~subver­ .sive ·organi:<;ations,\ mem]Je~:ship in whicl) would automatically dis- qualify a teaeher. The act also makes \tr.ea:sonable or seditious utterances'' grounds for dismissal .of teachers. The ostensible purpose ·of the act -prevention. of the poisoning of the minds of our school children- is, of course, laudable. Its· actua11 effects upon our democracy, how- ·ever, .are vicious and insidious. Thill act contributes to the promulgation of tl;le era of fear 'in which it was conceived. It makes teachers afraid to discuss openly in their class rooms the controversial issues of the day. Fear of possible mis- interpr-etation by a student, a mother, a colleague-all of whom l>y this act become spies--will bar free and open discussion. It great- ly restricts aqademic freedom and 'hinders ·the search for truth. It lowl}rs the morale of the teachers and denies accurate presentation 'lf controversies to the student. Both the Teacher's Guild (A, F. ·of L.) an~ the Teacher's Union op- >pose the Iaw and advocate its re- peal. According to the Teacher's Guild, \It . . . begets fear which will paralyze the courageous teacher.\ The Teacher's Union said that because of the. Feinberg L I. BALFOUR 00. Fraternity Jewelers BADGES • RINGS - FAVOBS JEWELRY LEATHER Gi.rrS STATIOJSERY • PROGRAMS OLUB PINS • KEYS MEDA.J:B - TROPHIES Write or call CARL SORENSEN SO Hurray Ave. Warertord, N.Y. l'HONB TROY-ADAMS &-ZII23 Law, \':rl)irty million children are in danger of growing up without even knowing .that their tongues have been gagged and their minds closed to new id'eas_\ The Vlloglien·ess .(}f the Fei)1'berg Law mal,es it restr•ictlve -on the. innecent as well as the guilty. J;t operates on the vicious principle of guilt by association; member· ship. in .a group, not overt action, is s\lff·icient evidence for di,smissa,l. It empower13 .the Board of. Regents to proscribe certain organizations and, in· effect to· dictate what can: and wha,t _ catrnot be thou&\ht. Idea11, not action, become the basis of gui·lt. \ Justice Douglas i~ hill diE!senting opin~on on th~ Feinberg Law said that it restricts the civU rights of public servants and makes second· class citizens o~ teachers \ , . , by denying them- freedom Of thought and expression. The pi·esent law,\ he said, :•proceeds· on a principle repugnant to 011r society-guilt by association ... It is certain ·to raise havoc with academic freedom . _ .. The law inevitably turns the school system into a spying project . • , A pall iS cast over the classroom . . , and' in that en-vironment , . , there can be 'no exercise of the fr.ee intellect.\ Commenting on the. restriction of thought and· the Imposition of or\ thodoxy in Ame'ric'a today, Jwtice Douglas said, \ .. _ . the 'guilt o·f the teacher should turn upon overt acts. So long as ·She is a· iaw abid- ing citizen, ·so long as her per- fortp<l.nce in the public school .sys- tem meets professional standards, her private life, her political phil- osophy, her social creed should not be the cause 'of reprisals against her.\ Justice Black, concurring in dis- sent with Justict;! Douglas, decried the e:va of fear -and hyste:~;ia evi- denced 'Qy acts sUch as the Fein- berg Law.. \This is another of those rapidly multiplying legislative enactments which make it danget•- ous-this time for teachers .....:. to think.. or say anything except what a transient majority happen to ap- prove at the moment. BasiCally these laws rest upon the belief that the government should supervise an:d lim:it the flow of ideas Into the' minds of men. Public officials with such powers are not public servants; they ar-e public masters.\ T.HEACME BARBERSHOP 509 UNION ST. \Where tlJe Service Is Cl Pleasure .. (Nearest to the Campus) SAVE. 15'% - ON. FOOD COSTS - SAYE 15% NOTT RESTAURANT AND BAR For Quick Take-out Orders Call Sch.-6-9766 - Raw, Steamed Clams \Meet and Eat at EDDIE'S'' ~7 Nott St., .opposite Green Gate Schenel::tacly, N. Y. - - MEAL TICI(ETS-$6.75 for $_5.00. LANGE & RAP,p PHARMACY \The College Studen,ts Drug Store\ CHEMICALS - DRUGS - Cor. Nott Terrace and State Street ATM. B. Graubarts & Sons We R~pair ••• Your WATCHES Yc;nir jEWELRY, Your SILVER Utmost care is taken 'by skilled worker$ to give you every reasoJt to be ·pleased~ -Watches and clocks de.aned and repaired -New watch cases and bands · -New watch crystals inserted -Jewelry aFJd silver replated and repaired -~~ -· oSa\\'& ()\l\\\\J.'\~~sOW~ · 166 JAY STREET ... Opposite Mohic:c,wn ... FRIDAY • w ThE world t is sup:r: thought ing and basic h Gan Many .ures ha· Soviet t:: Americaz Americaz therefore hy defat thought erhment nize the No Jon granted the econ· 1776 by was re' giants i econortli< theory • our min Great D lSUing Yl ing us'' then de1 avoid fu Today }lerous fore. Tr 'Rooseve 1944 of and it 1 Our ec< proporti The bu< increa.~e sing us Jlressioi! than 19: Many further duce nc say we further right? Our I sides. · plore 1 econom sen ted label radical. answer: The de At tl tempte• Am eric this su who h undei'l~ in the operatE In o· a certa a samt vocate tion o: is our startin. opinior to a h ernme1 no my propo:;; steps f· in bet' Our ing th dents posing quest!! directi econor 1. c labor: 2. c ing fo 3. I ing in 4. 'J forces approJ we, sympo and ti omic J Elcono every societ~ throu~ it pre the go the bt row tl t1on c affect! reade1 Whi color£ tion o the f• policy: portal an e( futur€ societ:

t f f t 3 .. FRIDAY:, MARCH 14, 1952 What is the Economic Future,of the U.S.? By Donald E. Schwartz . The struggle between the two great powers of the world today__:_the. United States and the Soviet Union- is supposedly predicated on a dichotomy of economic thought. The dua:l questions of where is our economy head- ing and where should it be heading are con.sequently of The Members of the Panel UoS. Should ·Plan Public Expenditures live on 57 dollars a week or Jess . Therefore there are huge stocks of unsold .goods. According to a series of articles by the Journal of Commerce there is widespread business fear that consumer buying will go on de- clining, especially with increasing taxation. Thus we see an opiated economy- apparently healthy but actually sick. basic impm·tance. . ~·------------------------ Gambling on Depression By Alan Stone Many leading international fig- w. ri ter Say· .s ures have proclaimed that the Senator George Aiken of Vermont, in a speech re- pdnted in the Congressional Record on August 10, 1951, said \Only fourteen monthEl ago the economy of our coun- try seemed headed for a slump or at least a descent to lower levels. The Korean war definitely warded off serious economic trouble for the United States.\ Before the Korean war, unemploy- ment had risen sharply. To many it appeared as though we were sinking into a de- Permanent \Var Economy Doomed Soviet Union is gambling on an ' c· t· l A American depression to wreck the 0 n ·. ro S re American capitalist system and . N. · therefore extend; their domination ' ecessary :by default. Economic theory and , .t:hought have high priority in gov-' ernment t:ircles as politicians recog~ nize the seriousness of the question. By Davis W. ·Griffith There are three broad trends within the American' social scene at the present No longer do America;ns take for. time which I think will be-· granted the complacent feeling that the economic system propounded in come very important i:n shap-: 1776 by Adam Smith and which ing our economic future. was revered by the industrial Partly on the basis of faith giants in the 1800's is the one and partly on the basis of' economic verity in the 'Yorld. No. historical experiences I feel theory drove that thought from that the influence of these· Sitting, left to right, are Davis W. Griffith, Donald E. Schwartz, Jerome Gartner, and Walter •r. Tower, Jr., who comprise part of this symposium panPl. Alan Stone and Herbert Schwei·tz wer!' were absent hom the picturl). our minds; but rather it was the trends will prove far more• G t Great Depression of 1929. The en- .important in our future than '. overnmen suing years were devoted to pull- any conscious application on • ing us 'OUt of the depiJe&sion and then deriving a system which will avoid future ca:lamaties. anyone's part of a predeter-· E·xp· ansion mined economic ideology. We · . . . have always been an empiri- • d cal people with a fine disdain is Deer1e for bad tradition, and I see Today, the United States is pros- no reason why this state of By Walter T. Tower, Jr. ]lerous as it rarely has been be- . affairs should change. Today, with the emergence U. .S. Riding High :fore. The pipe dream of Franklin Briefly, the three trends are 1 D t' 'Roosevelt and Henry WaJlace in these: (1) There has been a con- of the Fair Dea emocra lC 1944 of 60 million jobs is a reality sideral;>le rise in the .average na- ideas of socialization of gov-' and it has been for several'yeavs. tiona! income and a somewhat d t b Our economy is on the grandest' similar rise in the average stand- ernment, there nee S O e a ]lroportions in American history. ard of living during the last .few re-exa:mination of the basic The budget, taxes, and the deficit de des t'cularly s'nce the late Ca I par 1 I prl'ncl'ples upon which busi-. increase annually. And still oppres- nineteen thirties; (2) At the same sing us is the fear that if a de- time that the standard of living ness in this nation was pression occurs, it will be worse has gone up there has been a cur- d d Th U 't d St t than 1929. tailment of \opportunity\ In the foun e • . e n1 e a es Many economists predict that further deficit spending can pro- duce nothin:g but disaster. Others say we have nothing to fear from further deficit spending. Who is right? Our panel .presents views on both sides. We have attempted to ex- plore the best avenues for our eaonomy to follow. We have pre- sented· opinions that many will label conservative, liberal, and radical. We do not present answers, but rather pose opinions. The decision is yours. good old Horatio Alger sense of the never, up until· the industria] term; and most important (3) 1 d ' 1 'tl There has been a great expansion age, P aye ser10U!S Y Wl 1 in the area of government spend- socialism. With the rpillions ing for both military and peaceful gained by a few through projects, and this spending has gone hand in hand with increased mass production and the in- fedel'al power. Each of these trends dustrialization of America, must be examined in turn, speak- ing in terms of broad generalities there came a slow realization that space limitations demand. that the common man was U.S. Waxes Richer America is unquestionably get- being trod upon. The easiest ting richer, and with the exception answer to this (over simpli- of the depression this process has ft\ed) problem was to social- been going on uninterrupted for Looking for a Trend some time. We employ more men; ize the ·nation-its industry, .At the same' time, we have at- we produce more goods; we earn 1'ts medicine, its farms, and more real money than ever before tempted to forecast the future of h f t f 't American economy. Our views on (save during the war). The na- all the ot er ace s 0 1 s t d t tiona! income is now being dis- bu-·sl'ness. Fortu·nalely this this subject are those of s u en s tributed more fairly than .. in the ·~ who have attempted to discover b t b undei'lying' and determining trends past. In terms of real income never came a OU ecause By 1930 the country was in• a de- pression brought on at least partly by the industrial era. The easiest answer to this was to start pro- jects under a socialistic system in hopes that they would fix the ills of the old system. To my mind this was not wise. It would have been more sensible to try to adapt the system which had worked so well before; to meet the new situations. Rather than setting up a new government agc~:·cy to take care of social in- surance, why not have the govern- ment provide for ways that private insurance companies could do the job? Rather than having the gov- ernment build the T.V.A., why not subsidize private utility companies in the same way they subsidized the air lines so that the private companies could do the job? This would be no hardship on the gov- ernment because the private com- p.anies would, be paying taxes. whereas the T.V.A. does not. Fur- ther, it would eli;ninate just that many more government-paid em- ployees and tl:)at much more red tape. R.F.C. An Example The R.F.C. is an example of a government owned business-and when you come \right down to it, the R.F.C. is nothing but a huge loan office-which has gone to pot completely. The mink coat scan- dals and their allied indices of cor- ruption, show just what sort of business is carried on, and by what sort of people, when the govern- ment does not operate upon sound (Continued on Page 4) An economy based on localized war and vast military expenditures can1es with it still more danger: ( 1) the possibility of entering into a global war, t21 the possibility of losing our European allies with the gr<nvth of neutralist feeling in western Europe. But the only other alternatives to this sort of \localized war\ and \arms prep- ·aration\ economy are 11) an actual war and t2) a peace time economy. pre..ssion. · Then with the start of \police action\ business started booming again. However, in the late sum- mer and early fall of 1951 strange things started to happen to the American economy. At the same time as there had been a bad slum~ in industries primarily con- cerning consumers (such as auto- mobiles, radios, clothing, etc.) There had been a sharp ascension in production of goods relating to the military. Consumer Production Down This reduction in consumer de- mand came at a time when pro- duction of consumer durables was still high. This, of course, led to the curtailment of consumer goods production. Ordinarily, such con- ditions as declining consumption and production of consumer goods would precipitate a depression. Actually however, none of the symptoms of a depression, (unem- ployment, declining profits, etc.) appell!red. As a matter of fact, profits reached vast proportions and unemployment decreased. . The eause of this curious situa- tion lies in the huge arms pro- gram. Arms investment, as it rose, meant a continually rising new investment and thus new employ- ment and expanding mass of profit. Evidently, then it is the high cost of living which has caused the low consumers market. The pur- chasing power of the bulk of the people declined. The Joint Com- mittee on the Economics Report found that one out of every four families live on 38 dollars a weelt or less. Half of American famQies A war would, of course, mean vast destruction and furthermot•e we would be in grave danger of losing it. Also, with arms expendi- tures even greater than the World War II level the danger of infla- tion would be even greater than that, even if by some miracle we <Continued on,..Page 4) i th 't . tl labor has scored gains which out- enough people had fal'th in n e economy as 1 lS curren Y weigh inflationary loss. All these operated. • factors viewed together form an the principles of private en- In our articles which prescribe index of increased prosperity. If · 1 d th A wonderful case of Hop Home This Easter BY TRAIN! a certain policy, we have tried for experience teaches us anything it terprise to prec U e e com- a sampling of views which will ad- teaches that there will be con- plete adoption of socialism. vocate continuing an approxi~a- tinued pressure for an even higher t . f t I' Th' Recently, however, there seems 10n o our presen po ICy. IS standard of living for labor. is our middle ground and our Many economic observers get to to be a trend towards socialism, starting point. One opposing this point in their analysis of our which has been warded off for opinion recommends going baclt economy and immediately conclude almost a century. This has come to a less complex method of gov- that individual opportunity is at t t . · t· · th about through emergency meas- ernmen par IC!pa 1on m e eco- a new high, yet thi,s is true only nomy while the other dissenter in the material sense. In terms of ures like the R.F;C. which have propoa.es that we move several the social hierarchy upward mo- hung onto the government. ~orne steps forward. There's a huge area bility is not what it used to be. of these are the farm relief plans, in between. Workingmen are better off, yes, Our forecasts are based on ask- but they are much more likely to the social insurance plans, the vet- ing the same question to two stu- remain worl!:ingmen for the rest erans' ir.·surance plans, and the dents who hold fundamentally op- of their lives than their fathers vast power projects like the T.V.A. posing pre-conceived notions. Our were. Public education has helped When the need for each of these question to them was: In what ·off-set this trend, but other more things-and many other like them direction do you feel the American important factors have been at economy is heading, in view of: work. Our economy has expanded· -arose, the government (usually ·1ess t't!rough new industry than ,Democratic> decided to take the 1. Government policy affecting through the expansion of oid ones; ·job over and do it \for the people.\ labor and business. High-level jobs today require h Government Control Costly 2. Government policy in extend- much more tee ni<:al skill than was ing foreign aid. needed twenty-five years ago; and. In some cases they fumbled the· 3. Increased government spend- ing in every phase of the economy. 4. The build up of the armed forces with a build up of armament appropriations. We, are severly limited in this symposium by handicaps of space a.nd time. The scope which econ- omic policy embraces is enormous. Economic policy touches ·upon every aspect of government and society. It hits the common citizen through the payment of taxes and it preoccupies all departments of the government in the formation of the budget. We ha.ve tried to nar- row the scope to the mere forma- tion of economic policy. How it affects all else is largely up to the reader's imagination. While thfs problem is not as colorfully controversial as the selec- tion of a presidenUal candidate nor the formation of a Far Eastern policy, It is at. least of equal im- .portance. Upon the formation of an economic policy depends the future of our government and our· society. there is no longer a great influx balL The veterans insurance today on non-English speaking immi- costs the government four times grarlts to fill the lower levels of as much mon:ey to handle as it society. These facts all work would cost a private company, as against the workingman who proved by government's ,own statis- twenty-five years ago might have tics. In other cases they invaded~ worked his way into the front of- private business fields. The T.V.A. fice. could have been constructed by New Incentives Sought private industry which was sub- It will become increasingly evi-. sidized by the government in the dent that the avenues of social ad- same way that the air li:hes were, vance are not as wide as they for- but instead it was built and run merly were, even for the industri- by the government in competition ous man with a fair education. The with the private power companies intelligent employee no longei' has of the atea. The same thing' is the psychological satisfatcion of be- proposed in connection with the ing reasonably assured of rapid power projects on the St. Lawrence advancement. Labor will expend seaway. In all cases the govern- more effort to make its present ment was not acting on the private position more suitable and com- enterprise principle. Without war- fortable while management will rant they invaded the fields Which strive to offer incentives other formally had been preserved for than advancement. The recent private business. Studebaker ads showing the happy' Of course the government had father and son w01·king together' reason to do this. They sa\v In in the same modern plant are a the early part of the century labor good example of the kind of stress was being treated poorly, that mass that will become moJ:e pronounced profiteering was ruining Wall -the stress oil security. Street, and that, generally, new I do not mean that our society pr<Jblems arose that we1·e not al- (Continued on Page 4) lowed for undei· the old system. ~~dual personality\ ARROW GA:8'ANARO IT'S A LOAF SHIRT IT'S A £M1 SHIRT GABANARO is amazingly comfortable .either way, thanks' to Arrow's revolutionary ARAFOLD collar. Fine. washable rayon gabardine. Wide . range of popular colors. .ARROW }))) . -~ ,ll-. SHIRTS • TIES • SPORTS SHIR.TS • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS (}'~\··.. YOU WON'T tmD A RABBIT'S FOOT to be sure of getting home as planned ... and getting back promptly after vaca- tion .•• in a comfortable, de- pendable train. And you can be equally sure of vacation fun ..• traveling with your friends ••• enjoying swell dining-car meals • •• with lots of room to roam ar.ound and visit. ·~.GIVE EAR TO.THIS 38% SI\VINGI · Get together 25 or more,. all heading home in the ?-:v· same direction at the same time. Then go Group Coach Plan .•. returning sepa- rately after the holidays if you wish. This way, you Will each save up to 38% compared to one-way tickets. So see your tick- et agent now for the low-down! ASK YOUR LOCAL RAILROAD TICKET AGEHT ABOUT GROUP OR liNGLE ROUND· TRIP SAVING$ EASTERN RAILROADS

4 FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 1952 W h • t ' o tl F put all his eggs in military aid to o c • t N d will be augmented considerably by . as Ing on s .· u ays or foreign :nation~. Taft, although ex- . . PP· o· ses I es .. ee rampant inflation unless effective ·. tremely unpredictable, seems In- controls of wages and priqes ;(a L R I W L • k. l · · clineci to favor curtailment of a M c t l F PI • bare minimum are. invoked bero:re ·· arger 0 e . ar . ~ e y large p()rtion of all sorts of foreign · ore . on ro . or , · anntng very iong. It would' be desirable aid. Jt appears that whatever hap- also to strengthen credit and in- 1 F t T 1 pens; h()wever, foreign aid in some (Continued from Page 3)· (Continued from Page. 3) vestment controls, to .say nothing S orecas 0 · ncr ease ~:~crt will be with us for a long time.; business. principles. It is an ex- . is soon to .stagnate, although it of closing the tax loop-holes, This aid merely represents another ample of what can happen when ·will certainly become ;more and We ave noW in the joy-ride stage By Herbert L. Schmertz ·prop to the American economy. If the government steps into private. more static unless t:here are dras- of Inflation which .gives a rosy By Jerome Gartner One of the dominant trends in the American economy is the inci'easingly important role that the government oc- cupies and will continue to occupy in the coming years. There are several ways in the present economy ihat i..he government exerts influence on the economy. One of the prime elements of government influence is the high level of taxation. The government can directly affect spending by the levels of taxation on lncom.:>s of corporations and individuals. But the government is also able iu more subtle ways to control the development of various industries. Steel Industry Example One of the best examples of the government ability to intluence the growth of industries is the ease with which the· government was able to persuade the steel indus- try to expand by allowing them certificates of rapid amortization. The government, by allowing the steel companies to write off their plants in five yeat·s instead of twl'nty-five or thirty years, was able to create a situation which had the steel companies scrambling to expand their plants. Another exampl<\ of the govern- ment's ablli ty to direct the flow of private capital by their taxation policies, is shown by the oil in- dustry. The liberal depletion allow- ances and tax reduction for duster wells has attracted people of high income who see a chance to keep 1110\'t.' t1! th1• !nL'L•lllt' ! l'Uill {f:) \\ t !1:- than trom other types of mvest· ment. Huge Budget The prl'p'lrednc.'~ huc.lg•· has kd to a large incrcni'l' in government 0Xpt'nditur,·;-;, t·~tinl:t~l·d to L,•nlt· lo $R0.000.fllln.f\'O t hb y. :tr. .\ large part of the increas.• in gm·ernment expl'ndit un•s has come in the pur- chase of goods and services that put the government in direct com- petition with the dt·mands of the civilian t·conomy. The gov,•rnml'nt can <.::tUst· a de· pression in the Detroit arf'a by re- ducing- the allotment of steel to the auto industry. The g-overn- ment's power to affect the economy is shown more cogently by the re- sults of the appeal made by Walter Reuther, president of the United Auto Workers, to \\'ashington to relieve the depressed conc.litions of Detroit. The government by judi- cious awarding of contracts was able to allot more for Detroit than other depressed areas were able to do on their own account. Recog- nition of the effect of government contracts on various areas was il- lustrated by the directive that de- pressed areas are to be favot•ed in the awarding of government contracts. With the expectation that war or semi-war conditions will prevail for the next decade, it is logical to expect continued high taxes. The result of huge government budgets and consequent large rPven U<\s will probably h<\ an incr('ase in thP government role in thl' economic structure. An incr<'asingly import· ant part of our economy will he determinf'd by n ~mall group of men in Washington rathf'r than by the interplay of market prices or decisions of private concerns. VICTORIA Restaurant Specializing in Italian Foods Jay Street {Cor. Union) Defore answering the four :it is economic aid, the money is business without warrant. tic changes in productive tech- illl,lsiort of well\bein:g to al~ but a questions posed in the intro- imrne<liately spent in the United I have pointed out\ some obvious niques. When the ladder of social few. .At the present rate we will duct 01 .,. article, I feel it is States; if military aid, the money ills of the Democrats' system 3f .success becomes harder to climb soon meet the horrible cohse- J spent to produce it has already partial socialization, as a remedy labor will insist on better wages quences of stage two. But at ·pre- important to make a few aided the economy. . .for the ilis incurred by the old free· and' working conditions as compen- sent .everyone would rathev talk genel'al statements concern~ GovErnment entrance into social enterprise system. Turn the pic- sa.tion. In losing \individ;lial op• than act. Severe economic disas- ing future world and domes- areas suc(l. as medicine, old age ture avound and you may say that povtunity\ in the old sense of' the. ter is the only effect of a pvolonged tic events Vdiich will have beneFits; increased worker benefits if there had not been these meas- word our system is losing a colol'i- arma:ments program carried out and civilian construction appears ut•es taken by the· Democrats, what . ful and important feather from its under such flimsy controls as we direct beadng on the nature to be on the dbwn ·grade. The could have been done. J\tst this:. cap, now have. Our present problem is of futw·e government policy. Democrats will put these in their more and stricter controls on busi- . The third and last trend that I to stabilize the economy until the The assumption must be pla.tfo~rm 'but any chance of having ness. Teddy Roosevelt started the ;view as significant is, of course, arms program is either finished or d I 'l l f them Enacted along with high mili- .chain of governmental control; the entry .of big government into junkect. Only minor adjustment~;~ ma e, un 1 appr Y so, t 1 at 01' ta!'y •spe:nding seems doubtful. The Franklin Roosevelt seems to have economics. One word is necessary should be allowed, a long period the United same is .true of tl)e Republicans, pretty much stopped it in favor of. to answer the moss-backs: govern- Must Solve Depression Problem States is going- to be involved except they will probably make the easiet· socialization ideals. The ment got where it is today beca;use The much more difficult prob- in an armed peace with the less ctaims. ·Interstate Commerce Commission, it was suited to meet certain ~inds !em facing us is to determine the Soviet Union. For the pur- More Guns, More TMLes the Federal Communications Com- of social. problems better tha:h any- future peacetime role of the federal h . . . . mission; and a few others have one else, and government will con- govet·nmen·t. ·The Unt'ted Sta· tes Pose of discussion I am rul- All of t is adds up to higher b k' d k' · 11 ' t· t d f ctl th taxes to pay for this largest m:ili- een wor mg, an wor mg we·' tnue 0 e~pan or exa Y e has yet to show that for any suil- ing out the possibility of a t . h' t B under the old .principle of control same reason, Only the federal tat'ned pert'od of ·ti'me 1 ·ts economi'n llll'Y program m our ts ory. e- h · T · t t 'd th · v full scale war in the near cause of this huge spending the rat er than owuershtp. hts pa- govern:men can provt e . e eco- system can inainta,in full employ- future. If wa·r should break economy will bec()me increasingly. tern could ha:ve been carried on, nomic safeguards that are needed ment and prosperity in: peace. E..'!:- . and it is still possible to get back on a nation-wide level to maintain per 1 ·ence has s\\own ·US that Wt\th out these predictions will inflated. It will appear that we th · ht t k It ·n t k th · bl' If \ h l . b'l't Th are In unbounded prosp~rity. Ac- on e l'lg rae · WI a e a e pu rc we are. business in the driver's seat we are ave no app ICa 11 y. e tually it is and will become even change in f).dministration to do it, Need More Civilian Production doomeq to r-ide the cycle .of boom presence of this armed peace, a more fa:l.se economy completely but it Is possible. The economic problems o{ .the and bust, and< .no truly basic I feel, is the main tenent of based' upon .a war economy. government fall into two obvious changes· which could J;J.ave altered our present and future econ- Consumers will have more money Hie t. S Arm·S types: what to do now and what this condition have taken place in omic policy. Almost every but find less to buy. Valuable ··to do eventually. What steps will our productive system siuce the materials are being wasted instead actually be taken is anybody's crash of 1921), the New Deal not- economic policy of the United of being- converted into .goods of Spen·d·I•Dg guess: it would t_ake a better sage. withstanding. The war helped very States will be directed toward some social value. The efficiency than: I to determine what Congress much fo pull us out in: the late furthering the \cold war.\ of government planning o-f an is crazy enough to do next. It is thirties, and our .present military As was shown in the recent pro- economy is pointed up by our pre- (Continued from Page 3J possible, however, to offer reason- prog.i•am ,began before the con- posed budget, armaments are the sent military development, but it could avoid total destruction and able predictions as to what will sumer backlog of the Wal' was largest single item. This trer.d will fails to view rationally the fruits win the war. happe)l if this or if that. tilled. So once again we are bein!f continue for the duration of the of this production. If we continue The only solution to our immedi- .As to our present economic propped. up by military spending, E:a~t-West tension. Because of this to choose,guns instead of butter we .ate problems seems to be (1) a policies and the arms race, it seems and it is that that we euphemistic- hug\ gowrnment spending on mili- will dangerously lower our stand- peacetime economy based on trade certain that our standard of living <:!l!Y call \prosperity.\ tary PI eparedness the position of ard of living. When the time agreements reached through a Five will drop if we continue to spend It is .the job of the government .\n;et ican business is secure. comes to curtail military develop- Power Peace Pact, so that we may such a huge .percentage of our na- to devise a peacetime progra~ of By secure I meau it will con- ment, if the government isn't ready trade with the other half of the tional income on: goods which are. prosperity for the Un·ited States, tinUl' to be in a propped up posi- with 11; fully prepared program world; .thus giving impetus to ex- of no civilian use. We are being' and it is fo1ly to think that this tion as a result of some :sort of for •civilian development we will panding consumer goods produc- taxed heavily to pay 'for military can be done without fairly rigid' govd nment spending. If sudden- be thrown into the black days of tfon, plus (2) a vast public ex- goods which cannot raise our stand- ·controls and extensive government ly the need for armament should 1930. penditures program. ard of living one jota. This trend (Continued on Page 6) cease American busines might con- t>P.i\''1hlv ~nt0r intn ~ \•ifllf'nt dP- 1!, ... ..;t,.r, l.ahor's l\litUrp Hinges on ;'l;on•mbt>r Gon·rnmont policy toward labor un10ns will continue to become mote :stl mgent. Tu just what ex- tent tlepvnJs upun the l'Oilllng elt.·c- tiun. A:; htts been shown in the ]Jast two yt·ars many strikes have bd?n lJiolit•n on basts that they are dt>tl'inwntal to the military effot·t. This mtionalization will continue and grow in usage. Benefits to \\. u1 kL·l :-., htJWe\·t·r. rnay tncrt~ase but they may b·· of little value if the economy continues to inflatl'.'. Future g-overnmer. t policy con- cerning fon•ign aid depends very much on th(' next election. The DPmoct ats seem to favor economic aid on an equal. basis with mili- 'tary. It \ould seem to me that Eist•nhower would be inclined to • Watches, Jewelry Clocks Repaired • Engraving, too! ~Jay Jewlery C'o. Ch. E's at Du Pont Work as production supervisors prepares chemical engineers for iobs in management 'I'he last issue of the Digest described the broad opportunities offered chemical engineers in research and development at Du Pont. Now let's look at the opportunities in produc- tion supervision. In this important phase of plant operation, Ch. E.'s and others are responsible for investment in plant facilities, supply of raw materials, supervision of operation and main- tenance, cost and shipment of fin- ished products, as well as personnel relations, training and safety. George B. Bradshaw, Jr., M.I.T. '40, assistant superintendent, inspects a unit used in ammonia synthesis operation. ties, usually starting as foreman. At this level they meet problems like these: 1. Occasionally, ip. a still connected to a sulfonator by a pipe line with a single valve, the product disappeared, and residue increased. The supervi- sor's study of control data showed that small amounts of gaseous sul- fur trioxicle were venting into the still causing decomposition of the product. HiJ:I recomm,~nded inl:;t!llla- tion of a positive pressure block in the pipe line eliminated the difficulty. 2. A high temperature batch reaction process was revised to increase pro- duction of a critical material. For safety, adjacent reactors had to be shut down as work on each unit pro- ceeded. Thesupervisorplannecimain- tenance and batch schedules to min- imizecostlydown-timeandre-trained personnel for the new process. In solving such problems, super- visors have an opportunity to QSe all their knowledge and ingenuity. Equally in:tportant, they acquire the Operator·and foreman check raw materials on a production control board which reC()rcls euery operation in a Du Pont plant. [ THIRD OF A SERIES I background and varied experience that prepare them for advancement to responsible positions in manage- ment and administration. • NEXT MONTH-The fourtharticlei:b. this series will deal with process develop- ment-to many engineers the most in- teresting part of plant operation. Conrad R. Graeber, Jr., B.S.Ch.E.,Lehigh '51, control supervisor, examines flow sheets. for the manufacture of methacrylates. SEND FOR your copy of \The DuPont Company and,the QQllege Graduate,'' 40-page book describing opportunities. for men and women with many types of training. Addreils: 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware. GAZETTE PRESS Normally, ch.emical engineers en~ ter production supervision by reason of preference and special abilities. Their first step depends on which of ten operating departments they work in. For example, in one department they follow a training program as student operators. In another, train- ing in a plant laboratory familiarizes the engineers with processes and products. Printers After the training period, the men are given supervisory responsibili- Inspecting nylon filaments during manufac- ture. They are made by extruding molten poly- mer through spitmerets under pressi1r~. BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ••• THRO.iJGH CHEMISTRY Entertaining, Informative - listen to \cavalcade of America,\ Tuesday.Nights, NBC Coast t()·Coast FRID~ Sc E'J I sched eiect comir of be also ~ next Kint has bt the U: past junior, ball f< reside I unifor on thE cia!izi1 Last ~ in sco with a game paign. Sch, sl;and~ Brook memb five <i Thoug Kinns out a~ handle a goo and i: jump s·chv; the. 1 the : Ni: last gine< final whis adva and up f the ter, rebo ham stre1 < ( •

,, FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 1952 5 Schwartzman; Kinns Elected Co-Captains ·,Wittner Announces Swimmers Place Second ~~~~ec~~~ge~~:r~~ector ln Regional AAU Meet Hal Wittner, following a meeting As· a cll'max to a highly<QI Following the conclusibrt of their regular season schedule, the. varsity basketball team met this week to· elec~ their captains for the. seas?n concluded and for the comm~ 1952-5q season: Glenn Kmns was given the honor· of bemg named cap~am for th~ past season and he was • also elected co-cap tam, along w1th Gene Schwartzman for· of the Athletic Awards committee, announced the awards for the mem- successful season, the Union Reiners will compete in the 50- bers of the basltetball and swim- College Swimming team took\ ~ar~ . free style and the 150-yard ming teams. d l b h' d f d lmd!VldUal medley, and Hartmann secon p ace e m ~vore · 1 will compete in the 100 and 200- BasketbaJl Colgate last Saturday m the yard backstroke events. Block \U\s for the varsity bas- A.A.U. meet in Troy. The ketball team were awarded to Garnet swept three first senior Donald Forsyth, manager 1 · · dd't' t t b Leading Scorer and juniors George Batkiewicz, p aces, m a · 1 lOU 0 es a • Kinn::;, a rangy, 6' 1%\ forward, The Engjpeer's team proceeded Glenn Kinli.s, Eobert Murray, N. Iishing three new college has been the scoring mainstay of to . trounce the G:unet until they: Eugene .Schwartzman, and David· marks. next year. - ~·~----~------------- Captains Named the Union College quintet for the bu~lt up a 59~38 third quarter lead. DuBois, manager-elect. Sophomore past two seasons. Currently .a Usmg many substitutes the Cherry Gerald Barandes and freshman Following th~ completion of the junior, Glen:!l played his high school ?-nd White were outscor~d by Union Werner ~iners., who set two pale ·Cristie, Frank Parisi: and regularly scheduled meets, John ball for Burnt Hills and is still a m the Iast quarter when Glenn· college recOrd!! in AAU meet. ·Joseph Sutka were also given Duffy and Gerry Geismar, both resident of that town. Wearing Kinns went on a sco~!ng spree. At . . sweaters. aUa's for varsity play- seniors were elected co-captains uniform number 6, he is a fast man the final gun, Union was on the' • . ers were awarded to William Doll for the 1951-52 season. Duffy, from on the floor ,and hard driver, spe~ . sho~t end of a 72-60 score. : SWlffi Meet tO be and Avrom Gold, assistant man- Little Falls, swam in the distance cializing in a running jump shot. Kmns and Joe Sutka paced the agers-elect, Paul Whitman, and events. John previously held the Last year he jed the Garnet teatn u · f' h H ld M h 18 19 . Richavd Rubin. Union records for the 220 and 440- in scoring and repeated that feat nwn . !Ve wit . 24 and 10 points, . e . : •arc . ' u . . t th f ll f t . . respectrvely. RPI was led by co· . . ' . . a as were giVen o e o ow- yard rees yle events. Geismar, a with a 15.5 average for the eighteen captain Halloran, who scored 28 . Art Lawrence, director of mtra- ihg men for Junior Varsity bas- breaststroker from Brooklyn·, N.Y., game schedule of the 1951-52 cam- points. Bruce Gardell, RPI's lead- mur~l. athletics, . ann~>Unced th~t ketball: Thomas Davenport, Rob~ came into his own this season as· paign. · ing scorer with an 11 . 9 avevage, the mtramural sWlmmmg meet will ert Lea, manager-elect, William a top flight performer. Gerry was Schwartzman, another junior, helped by pouring in .14 points. be held on the aftern<Jons. ·Of March Mayer, Robert Gilfillan, Joseph a hard worker, and constantly si;ands at 5' 11\ and hails from· Cardell's outside shooting in the 18 and 19, next Tuesday and Wed- Wilkinson, Robert Woodworth, strove to better his time. Brooklyn, New York. Gene was a· opening frame .forced our defense· nesday. Th~ even~s on those af- David Gregory, Richard Havill, Werner Reiners, ·coilege stand- member of the Brookl:Yn Poly Prep to come outside, thus enabling Hal- ternoons w~ll begin pro~ptly at Theodore Reinhard, and' Jerome out, set new records i'n the 150- five during his high school days. loran and the rest of his team- 4:45 p.m. w1th all fratermtles :and Tischelikel. Robert Albrecht, Frank yard individual medley and. 440- Though not the prolific scorer that mates to drive in for easy layups independent ·groups who comply Cafarelli, candidate manager, Wil- yard fl'eestyle events. Sophomore Kinns is, Schwartzman has stood . ' with \the rules below 'invited to liam Constatakes, Edward Me· Dick Hartmann chopped seconds out as a playmaker and' fancy ball RPI Experienced· compete. Sweeny, Stephen Muller, and Mor- off his own record of 2:25.9 for handler for Nistad's team. He has The RP:t 'starting five was made' A contestant may compete iii ton Silver were given the class the 200-yard backstroke event, cov- a good pair of hands, passes well, up of ·five seniors, while the Union only three events-either two re· numerals, 1955. ering the distance in 2:23.4. In the and is best l;!,t driving layups and squad didn't possess a man with .lays· and one individual event or 300-yard medley relay, Hartmann, . three yearfl of experience .behind one relay .and two indiVidual Swimming Reiners and Dorse combined to him. In a previous. game played• events. No man who was a mem- In varsity sWimming, block \U\s cop first place in a. 3:06 effort. at Alumni Gymnasium the Garnet ber of this year's varsity or ~unior. were awarded to seniors John Union took thirds in the 100 and won by a score of 68-61, This loss ·varsity swimming squads can com- puffy, Gerald Geismar, and Frank 44~yard freestyle events, and in gave the Dutchmen a seasor.al pete in these events. Also, no stu- Morgan, manager. The following the 40~yard freestyle relay event. record of 3 wins and 15 losses, the dent who, at apytime during his juniors were given the same award: Gerry Geismar and Phil Metzger worst in many seasons. school career, has earned a varsity Irwin Barg( Manager-elect, Robel't ended the Garnet scor-ing by taking • Union's only victories came over swimming letter will ·be allowed· to Dorse, Philip Metzger, Werner fourth places in the 200-yard McGill, Hamilton and RPI. Kjnns, compete. Reiners, and Richard Stark, al<>ng breaststroke and diving events, re- vi'ith 24 points for his last night's The entries for the various events with sophomgres Arthur Fin!;, spectively. work finished the year with a 15.5 will be accepted in the pool ·on the Richard Hartmann, and freshman Meet at Yale average. J-oe sutka, a freshman, days of the meet. There Will be Christopher Muhlert. aUa's went Coach Mullane has taken two of Travel and study ABROAD this summer ~'~, ~ - LOWEST FARES EVER make university-sponsored tours via TWA most attractive. Spend your summer profitably and enjoyably on one of 16 four- to ten- week study tours in Great Britain, Europe, Scandinavia, Asia or Africa. Earn full credit while you travel and study. Arranged by specialists in the educational-travel field, in co- operation with TWA. Tour price takes care of all necessary expenses, including TWA's money-saving new tourist fares.* For tour information, mention countries that interest you most when you write to: John Furbay, Ph.D., Director, TWA Air World Tours, 80 E. 42nd St., New York 17,N.Y. *Effective M<ly 1 subject to gou't approval FRANS WOfii.D AIRliNE$ was far behind Kinns in the scor- four places with scoring points for to the following varsity men: How- his natators, Reiners and Hart- ing column with a 6.8 point per each event, and all competitors ard Kloth, Guy Cooper, and John mann to the Eastern Intercollegi- game average. The third man for will be swimming against the clack Boardman, assistant manager-elect. ate meet at Yale, March 13-15. the Union squad in the point-get- in all the events except the 50 ya.rd ------------~------------------...:__ ______________ ___ tin!! records was Bob ·!\Iurrav. a fi<'P~t~·k dash, ir. which a final junior, with a 6.6 point average. heat will be held. 'To enter as a Murray was also very valuable for team and qualify for entrance his good rebounding ability and points, a group must have at least agility on the floor. six men compete. ___ 0 On the first afternoon, Tuesday, J. V. Quintet Posts 1-8 Season Record three events wil !be run off. The 50 yard breaststroke will be the opening event. followed by the 100 yard freestyle, and then th€ 150 yard medley relay teams. These medley relay tea.z;ns will be made up of three men each beginning with 50 yards of backstroke, 50 yards breaststroke,. and a 50 yard frcestylt>r for anchor man. jump shots. Both Kinns and s·chwartzman were teammates on the undefeated freshman team of the- 1949-50 season. Close Finale Nistad's five traveled to Tr.oy last Friday night to meet the En- gineers of RPI in the season's finale. Soon after the opening whistle blew the home team took advantage of Union's poor passing and poor rebounding power to build up a .22-9 quarter lead, At about the midpoint of the sec,Pnd quar- ter, Bob .Murray, the Dutchmen's rebounding ,ace, fouled out, thus• hampering the limited backboard strength. The Garnet Jayvees invaded RPI's field house, along with the varsity on March 7, to match thPir talents against the Engineer's on their home court. In an effort to end the season with a victory and also to end a seven game winless skein, the Dutchboys played in- spired ball against a much taller, rougher, and more polished RPI squad. The game was a spine-tingling af- fair, close a! lthe way down to the final seconds of play. The Union cagers outplayed, but not out- hustled, lost the game by two pojnts, 54-52. Joe Wilkinson led the Garnet scorers. Hammerstrom's team ended their season with a 1-8 record, which looks very dismal at first glance. Upon checking the statistics close- ly it can be seen that 'the team lost many heartbreakers by one or two points. When the point totals for the opposition and the home team are compiled it can also be seen that the Dutchboys' oppon- ents didn't run up that much of a margin over them. Wednesday afternoon the final three events wil lbe held. The 50 yard fr(lestyle event will b run off, 'then the 50 yard backstroke, and finally the 200 yard freestyle •relay teams. Four men; swimming 50 yard laps each, will comprise these final. relay teams. ............ 111111··································' . . : : . . : STUDENT WIVES !:, . . ! Are you interested in earn· r · .~ ing money on the side by doing ~· : a families ironing? ~ May be done at home if you E prefer. i . Call MRS. MORSE :' 2-4109 Days-2-7796 Eevnings ~. ······················~························ .. Shake.rpeare ucribed_:_ There,s not a minute (i)·f our lives should stretch without some plea.su:re d.nlhu17-y and Cuopalra A ~inute~ s enough to stop at the familiar red cOoler for a Coke. Pleasure 2 Certainly • , , and refreshing, too. !lOrtl.cD UNDeR AUTHORITY OF THE COCA·COLA COMPANY BY sCHENECI!Ai>Y COOA-OOLA BOTTLING OO:M:r'ANY \Cole•'' lr a r~lstltl'ed..,trade-marlc. e. @. 1952, TH,E COCA·COLA COMPANY • • \::1 Seconds after a telephone alert to a nearby Air Force base to \scramble pilots hustle to their jets. In minutes, the stubby, swept- back interceptors thunder skyward. This is the real thing. Pilots call it a \hot scramble.\ Live ammo rides in their guns. It starts when an Air Foree radar station detects an aircraft which cannot be identi- fied. A telephone call by direct wire gal- vanizes the jet crews into action. Modern air defense requires lightning-fast, dependable communication. That's why our radar defense system is interlinked by a web of direct telephone lines. Some of today's college graduates will be piloting Air Force jets. Others will be wel- comed into the Bell System where they can help, in peace or war, in the tremendous job of meeting the communications needs of our n~ttion. BELL TELJ::PHONE SYSTEM •

6 '' Ange,l Street'' Presentation Is C-ompetent, High Leve~l Drama By Donald E. Schwartz A murder stoTy set in the Victorian period marks the retum of drama to the Union College campus with the English Department's pro- duction of \Angel Street\ which opened last night in Hanna Hall. Completeiy Competent Competence is the word which best describes the presentation by Professor Donald S. Jones' Play Production class of Patriclt Hamil- ton's thriller. The play concerns the sinister efforts of an English gentleman, rather murderer, played by a bearded Richard Heimann, to drive his wife insane. His ulterior motive is to be able to secure free reign of his home, which was purchased largely through his wife's money, in order to search for some missing jewels. This same Mr. Manningham committed a cruel and heartless murder fifteen years previous in order to gain possession of the jewels which he never found. Through the interference of In- spector Rough, Mrs. Manningham, portrayed by Miss Louise Wood- ruff, is informed of her husband'B plot. Various complications develop, but in the end the killer is trapped and Mrs. Manningham has revenge on her husband in a dramatic final scene. The play itself is, of course, com- pletely professional as testified by its long Broadway run. Neverthe- less, this reviewer objected to some of Mr. Hamilton's contrived sus- pense devices which force the dialogue to appear like a grade B movie script at times. On the whole, the play moves rapidly. creating a genuine aura of sus- pense. Genuine as Killer Scene' From Hanna Hall Pr()d.uction someone backstage had forgotten to turn off a radio. Mr·. Jones, as always, has di- rected the en tire affair in top style. Taking the production as one image, it has been wor·th waiting for. While drama is no longer a student activity, theatre lovers will have little to complain about if this level of achievement is main- tained. Planning 7:00 7:15 7:30 7:45 8:00 8:15 .s:SO 8:45 9:00 9:05 9:15 9:30 9:45 10:00 10:15 MONDAY Sports Show Keyboard Kapers Bandtime Garnet Club Philornathean Forum N. Y. Times News Concert Hall WRUC TUESDAY Transcribed Music Madcap Edition Band time Twenty Questions II Strollin' with Dick N. Y. Times News Concert Ha:ll Schedule WEDNESDAY Sports Show Transcribed Music Banatime Jazz Show , Blass Menagerie N, Y, Times News Concert Hall FRIDAY. MARCH 14, 1952 THURSDAY Transcribed Music Banatime \ Garnet Club FRIDAY Sports Show Madcap Edition :Band time \ Garnet Club Hit Parade N. Y. Times N. Y. Times News News Concert H~a~ll~--~C~o~n~c~e~r~t~II~al __ l __ \ 10:45 ll:O~O------~-A 7 ~n~yth~i~n~g-.~~~~A~n~y~t~h 7 !n~g------~R~e-q_u_e~s~tf~w~ly~~~--~E~a-sy Requestfully Yours 11:15 11:30 11:45 12:00 Goe;;; Goes Yours Listening Dream time <to 1:00) Dream time <to 1:00) Dream time (to 1:00) Dream time (to 1:00) WHAT ARE THE ODDS? . . . . . . . . . . . . Dream time (to 1:00) Mr. Heimann, as the killer, ap- pears out of character during the first act, but gains authenticity during the final two acts. In his diabplical final appearance with his wife just before he is appre- hended by Scotland Yard, he frightens Miss Woodruff, along with a good part of the audience, clear out of their wits. Mr. Heimann has some trouble acting the part of a Victorian gentleman, but his troubles evaporate when all pre- tenses about his evil motives are dropped. Mr. Heimann, through- out, carries with him a professional (Continued from Page 4J spending. The extent to which price, credit, investment, and pro- duction controls will be necessary is for experience to determine. These are empirical matters which cannot be predetermined with any high degree of accuracy, grandiose theory to the contrary. It is a fairly obvious point that the Am· erican people are aware of a firrrer grasp of their own economic des- tiny than they were prior to the New Deal, and they will insist that the government plan and control to avert a repetition of the early thirties. lt's 2 to 1 you'll have your picture taken at some time or another. Give up, men. Only 1 mon in 10 manages to remain a bachelor. bearing. . Miss Woodruff gives the finest performance in the play as the distraught wife, Her performance. opposite Mr. Heimann, is likewise convincing and professional. She maintains the desired frightened disposition. James Balneaves, as Inspector Rough, adds the genuine English accent to the play. Mr. Balneaves. however is not a professional. He reads the ltnes of the jaunty de- tectrve wrth gentle humor and pre- cision, but his movements on stage are staccato and awkward at times. although he loosened up a ·bit as the play progressed. The supporting players, Misses Jacqueline Roberts and Priscilla Proxmire as the two servants, Messrs. Saul Babbin and Walter Finberg as the policemen, all per- form their slight, but important roles with authority. This is par- ticularly true of the two young ladies. Set Is Beautifu'l Besides acting as the Inspectnr. Mr. Balneaves took tim.., to d<>sign the beautiful and tasteful s<>t. With meticulous care. the group has ap· pointed the one room scene to per- fectly suit the pl'riod and the mood. The costumes of Mr. John Carriere, the proprrties of Mr. Stephen Fink. and the lig-hting- of Mr Jo!'<h Fur- man arp all compPtPntly handiPd The background music. how!'vPr. which was dimly hf'ard during the play, proved distrnrting and annoy- ing. It soundf'd to me as though Placement News Companies are keeping preferred .files, to save the names of men whom they have interviewed and would like to meet again aft<'r military service. Another point-- companies unknown to you may represent opportuniti<'S into which you should look. \Ve notice that the wcll-advertisPd names attrn~t applicants; that i\ o.k. hut why overlook something just b!'raUR<' I you \never heard of it\? Here is the li\t for th•• coming I two weeks: March 17, Sears Roe- buck; March 18, North American 1 Aviation, Research Dh•. of Levf'r Bros, and MHcantile ~tnr!'R' l\far 19, Rochf>st<'r Ga.q & Elrctric Co Eaton Manufacturing Co .. and W. T. Grant Co.; Mar. 20, Aluminum Co. of America; Mar. 21, Arma Corp. Please note that the group meet- ing for Sears Roebuck is cancelled. Goverrunent Must Expand The government will certair.ly be requrred to ente1· a number of un· profitable fields to plan and pro- duce for use value, not profit. Low cost housing, river basin develop· ment, and atomic energy develop- ment are typical of the fields that the government should (and will) enter. Whether such activities coupled with controls over basic industry and investment will prove sufficient to keep us on an even keel 1s yet to be determrned. If not. then further stPps w1ll he necPssary. The Amerrcan people recogniu more rmportant fr·eedom than that of unrestncted E>cor.omic freedom. and whPn threatPned sufficientlv they Will act m therr own best iTi- teJest as thev have in the past ThP Amen~an fear· of state plan. nrng 1s largely a product of busi- nPss propaganda coupled with the fact that socialist experiments in Europe have r.ot hPPn too effective in rebuilding economies that ·wpre wrecked to begin with. In the United States socialism has l:Jee11 a nntable succe~s as evidPnced by ou,r rivPr dPvelopment programP, public hnu,;in~ and thP Atomic Energy Cnmmi~sion I think we will move stPa<iily towards thP PX· pansion nf thP,;P ard similar pro- g-rams ThPrP is amplr> PvidPnr, that we stand much to gain. Ray Milland plus Hold That SAMSON AND DELILAH HPdy ldmarr Vidor Mo:~+ur~ plus As You Were William Holden plus Japanese War Bride ll! ........... e.o. .... , •• , ........ _-:·:·:···· , •• / ·- -- -----~-- Vol. 7 1: Sam sen tee footb: folloVI comm poll c In a son, ds that ' agree opponE us ou have 1 wise i1 best ir son; a ever I having The day, t we ca: jority concur and M ' that VI ball I twent~ Duri couple ford, have: to thE cided ball p Roche rej>lie< twent~ Am he. ous s practi The came mend! of the tion : the l Assoc Comrr forme which colleg briber heade Presi< consi! Notre ton, I sis sip utah. Th~ natio1 bowl tests, ·other go to mend sprin, p] 111 Th Tour Phil( from tropl winn frate Th \Res Be 1 en tit Eacl give spee The bate side: befo Tl tion will 9, f Eng Hall held on Mor unfi A mat Aci1 Sat1

\Theatre Whirled\ Page 2 Vol. 79, No. lB 1lliamnuil Juhiltr Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, MARCH 21, 1952 \Angel Street\ Hanna Hall 8:30 P.M. PRICE 10 CENTS Frosh' Meeting College .To Continue • d There! will be an important · , Spring. Grt .· Practi.ce~ · .=::nt!::e::~~!:~~=· day, 1\!liarch 24, at 4:30 p.m. In ' By h•win Barg a.nnouncing the assembly, Dean Acting upon the recommendations of Hal Wittner and,. c. William Huntley stated that Sam Hammerstrom, President Carter Davidson has con-' ::o;;::o': ~tu~y ~~ 0 :e::_~:! sen ted to allow the Athletic~ Department to run a spring. of the Cliass of 1955 wa.nts to • football practice .session, in 1952. This action. was taken . follow next year. Those fresh'- • following consideration of the recommendations of a special men who cannot attend sh()uld committee of the American ·Council on Education and of a:' ;~: ~h ~:. Dean:s office be- Tex Beneke And His Band Will Play At Junior Prom poll of eight small eastern c_uo~ll~eg~e~s:_. _________ :!::::::::::::================= \Best Interest'' ~ Steel Control Eased; Field House Is Closer In a letter to Pres~dertt David- son, dated March 15, Wittner stated that '·'Mr. Hammerstrom and I agree that since three of the four · opponents who shape up to afford us our strongest opposition will · have practice; we should do like- wise in the protection of o11r ,own A reduction in the government's ban on steel and best interest. That is but one rea- building supplies has produced no tangible changes, as yet, son; another is that benefits, how- ~ .ever minor, do accrue to us by in the situation concerning the. construction of a new field having practice.\ house. The restrictions have only been eased, not rescinded. The President replied, on Tues-' Bid for Steel day, that \although I regret that According: to President Carter. we cannot go along with .the ma- ·Davidson, Union has an applica· jority of our opponents of 1952, I tion for allocation of steel on file concur in the decision which you with the government. He hopes and Mr. ~merstrom have mad~ that construction may be possible Cites Abuse Of Wild Life 1 that we s'!ftiuld hold a spring foot- during the 1952-53 school year, ball practice of not more than .with the building ready for .use in Prof. Male\'lm E. MacDonald twenty days duration.\ the fall of 1953. There has been f gave the second in his series o Five Drop Practice no official word on the applica- d . tion so far, however. talks on \Wild-Life\ Tues ay m During the course of the past bne SI).ag that has arisen is that Memorial Chapel. 'The professor couple of weeks; Hamilton, Haver- the price of building materials has cited two factors instrumental in ford, Hobart, RPI, and Williams increased c. onsidentbly in the five ----------------------------~ lFC Votes Half Term Deferment The Interfraternity Coun- cil voted to defer rushing until the November ad-in- terim marking period next year, at its meeting Tuesday night. With six representa- tives missing, the vote was ·seven to five in favor of the motion. Plan Is Incomplete The mechanics of the program still remain to be worked out. The special problems that have yet to be acted on include the meal rota- tion plan and the length of the active rushing period. The last mentioned plans will be worked out in committee and will be pre- sented in entity at the next meet- ing. By Alfred Goldberger The Junior Prom ·Committee has announced the signing of Tex Beneke and· his \Music in the Mood\ Orchestra for the forthcoming Junior Prom, May 2. Beneke, sought after for nearly two menths, sent the final contracts back last week. ' cf. Tex Beneke One of the Best One of the top commercial musi- cal aggregations in the country to- day, Beneke's group caters to the whims anq wishes of his public and has just completed a success- . · ful cross-country tour. Beneke, who was born in Texas about 40 years ago, first came into prominence in the year 1939 when he joined the famed and popular maestro, Glenn Miller, as a fea- tured side man. ' Before too long, Beneke, an ex- cellent vocalist in addition to his ability on the tenor sax, was draw- ing perhaps the best pay of any feature man in any musical group playing in the country at that time. Although he has since dropped his billing as \1'ex Beneke and the Glenn Miller Orchestra,\ Beneke still retains many of Miller's for- mer arrangements and will play them on request. Reorgmrlzeid Miller Gl'OUP h · w red W1'ttner's 1·nqu1·r1·es causing different forms of animal · ave ans e years since the campaign started. to the effect that they have de- ·The money for the field house was life to become extinct. cided to discontinue spring foot- raised in terms of 194 '7 cost. Be- First, .the direct killing or de- ball practice for the coming year. fore construction could begin it struction of members of a particu- Rochester and St. Lawrence have would be necessary for the archi· .Jar species, and second, the destruc- replied that they intend to hold a teet to modify the plans to cope tion of the natural habitat of the In other proceedings at the Tues- day meeting, George Exner, chair- man of the Constitution Commit- tee, presented the revised IFC . Constitution. The new charter, 26 p f • which has as its aims the improve- ro s tn ment of fraternity and college re- Miller's popularity increased as did Beneke's. Miller featured him either on vocal or tenor on almost every record. Beneke stayed with Miller until the spring of '43 when he enlisted in the NaVY and was sent to Norman, Oklahoma., where twenty day practice session and with this development. same. \The second factor is by far lations and the addition of more , , Who's W~ ho\ dynamic force to the interfratern- . ity group, was ratified by the Amherst made public a:h ambigu- the more important,\ stated Mac- ous statement eliminating formal Bill BefQre Congress ' Donald. He went on to illustrate practice sessions. At present there is a bill before that once the exploitation of these t . Congress to provide that the De· animals is retarded, the species The question of spring prac lCe . fense Department may help col- It f th Com once again undertakes its normal came as a resu o e re ~ - leges· having ROTC units with up· d t . f · 1 'tt trend of subsistence. This is gen- men a 1ons o a speCla comml ee to $150,000 for the construction of f th A · C c'l Educa erally the result of the improve- 0 e meriCan oun 1 on - an armory or drill hali. If this bill t . d f d t' by ment of the habitat. 10n ~(loll .o recommen a Ions is passed, Union may be able to. the National Collegiate At}lletic build a better building than plan· Wild Life Crowded Association. • The ACE's Special ned or use the money in other At 1 t . p 1' Professor MacDonald pointed out Committee on h e 1c o ICy was places. One possibility is that it f d t ak d t . that as long as the human race orme o m ~ e recommen a 1ons could be used to 1 ·mprove the 1 th t f remains at the same rate of in- which might c ear e wa ers o present gym. . 11 t' t II thl t . dd' d · th crease, wild life w1 con mue o co ege a e ICS, mu le since e Accord1'ng to Mr. Harold Van de d It h d b · be \crowded out.\ Unnecessary e- bribery scandals, a h ~hen Car; Director of Financial De- struction of habitats must be headed by John A. Hanna • e velopment, the new law 1's -full of ' St t d avoided. Under this heading come~! President of Michigan a e, an cond 1 \ti'ons. If there 1's no steel · d f t P \d t f y 1 erosion following poorly situate council. Songfest Announced IFC president :I;tobert Hochuli also announced plans for the Inter- fraternity Sing at the Spring Prom. This year's edition of the songfest is scheduled for Friday night of Prom Weekend. Hochuli also pro- vided the program for the sing. The fraternities were urged to support the Blood Week program by prexy Hochuli. To Speak on Chinese· Art consisted o · he res! en 5 0 a e, str 1 'ke, and 1'f there are no sudden 1 d N t D N \ k w h · ·ag~iculture, fires, overgraz ng, an 0 reF ' arne, SMUe,...raws a,l as Mm.g- changes due to defense needs, then many~ similar acts of carelessness. Mr. and. Mrs. Richard Edwards, ton, url'nan, · • es eyan, 1 ~ steels allocations may begin after \We must avoid needless pressure both authorities on Chinese art and sissippi, Western Reserve, an July 1. H9wever, Mr. Van de Car upon all forms of wild I~fe\ the culture, will visit Union March Utah. feels that defense needs should professor observed. . 23-28 and will lecture to various 20 Da.y Period come first and therefore the college In answer to the inevitable ques- ·classes on their studies of China. That group suggested the elimi- has not been pressing the govern- tion \So what?\ MacDonald men- These classes will be open to any- nation of ~extended early practice, Qlent strongly to get steel. The tioned first, economic value of cer- one interested in hearing the bowl games and out of season con- best he hopes for is that building tain species. Here he cited the speakers and an illustrated lecture tests, except for chat'ity, among may be initiated a year from this example of a certain type of mink, given by Mr. Edwards on Wednes- . other things. The NCAA did not spring. much larger than those in exist- day evening, March 26, at 6 p.m., go to such extremes in its recom- ---·o--- ence today, 'driven to extinction by will be open to the public. Ed- mendations, but suggested that c •t J the ruthlessness of the human wards' illustrated talk on Chinese spring practice sessions shoul(,i not .,. y ssues ·race;' which would have provided art will be held in Old Chapel. (Continued on Page 3) a. more valuable pelt than those Mrs. Edwards, nee Vee Ling, has ~~-o Pe~~ r- -plex Cohn· t.bat :;;till exist. A decreasing variety studied at Duke University and at of game- was mentioned as another Columbia, and she has taught a The 1952-53 edition of \Who's Who in America,\ which has just been published, lists 26 members of the Union College faculty. New entries. in the annual list are Warren Crosby. Taylor, profes- sor emeritus ,of civil engineering; Leonard Bertrand Clark, chairman of the department of biology; Henry Gilbert Harlow, chairman of the department of civil engineer- ing; David Sherman Morse, chair- man of the division of science; Edward Staples C. Smith, chair- man of the department of geology; Philip Stanley, professor of phil· osophy; Helmer Lewis Webb, li- brarian; William Whipple Bennett, chairman of the department of eco- nomics; and Arthur Kent pavis, chairman of the department of so- ciology. Appeared Previously he organized a band of his own. Miller, at the same time, was or- ganizing his famous Air Force Band with many members of his former aggregation, until he met his untimely death in the spring of '45. Beneke reorganized the Miller orchestra when he was discharged from service in 1946. Beneke gathered as many old Miller musicians as possible and since the public clamored for the Glenn Miller style, Beneke gave it to them and overnight became the rage of the American dancing public. New Style Gradually, however, Beneke les- sened the importance of the Miller orchestrations and started playing hi~ own style. His use of strings, started by Miller in his unique Air Force Band, was disbe:nded be- cause of the increasing popularity of the vocalist, and at Prom time, Beneke will probably come to us with a fifteen man organization devoid of strings . P ~ h •1 p· I result of exploitation. \TJ:lese ani- course in Chinese at Yale. Her hus- . I. OS . . an Morris Mandel Cohn, Union '21, ma:Is are the result of a long pro- band is now on the staff of the and Schenectady city manager cess of evolution, and cannot be Fogg and Boston Museums and Intra Debate spoke. before the student assem- replaced by man.\ has been a Fullbright scholar. Members of the Union faculty who have appeared in the volume previously include President Carter Davidson, Dean Charles William Huntle~·. George Henry Danton, professor emeritus 1>f German; Ed- ward Ellery, professor emeritus of chemistry; Burgess Johnson, pro- fessor emeritus of English; George Dwight Kellogg, professor emeritus of Latin; James Watt Mavor, pro- fessor emeritus of biology; Harold Whitney Bibber, chairman of the division of engineering. Also, Harrison C. Coffin, chair- man of the division of humanities; Caryl Parker Haskins; research The public will remember Beneke for his work on records iii \Be- yond the Sea\ \I Don't Care\ and many others. Incidentally, Sche- nectady television star Garry Stevens, featured on the above mentioned recordings, sang with Beneke from 1947-1948. Now B('neke records for the MOM label after switching from RCA Victor recently. Beneke records will be placed in the Rath- skeller and played over the campus radio station, WRUC. blage at chapel yesterday. Punctu-. -=-~---------------------------­ ating his speech with several anec- The 1952 Intramural Debate dotes, Mr. Cohn described the prob- Tournament, sponsored by the !ems that a city manager must Philomathean Society, will be held meet in the course of service. from April 9 to April 15. A gold \For every Jetter of the alpha- trophy will be award·ed to the bet,\ said Cohn, \there begins a winning frat«lril.ity. Psi Upsilon· problem, or problems, which bas fraternity won the trophy in 1951. to be dealt with by my office.\ The The topic for debate this year is, number and importance of these ''Resolved: That Gambling Should problems is varied, according to Be Legalized.\ Each fraternity is the speaker. entitled to enter one two-man team. Work Varioo. Each member of the team must The-scope of the city manager's' give a four minute constructive work includes such varied matters speech and a two minute rebuttal. as keeping the bus syste~ in opera- The team must be prepared to de~ lion and dealing with the problem bate both sides of the question, but of discrimination within the muni-. sides will .be announced the day cipal housing authority. Other before each debate. enigmas which the newly appointed The contest will be an elimina- city manager has to solve include tioli ·tournament. The first round -the advisability of permitting the will be held on Wednesday, April use of a milk dispenser in West. ~. ~ from 1 :00 to 1:30 p.m, in the College and the amount of money English Reading Room in Bailey to he outlayed for cardio-vascular Hall. Successive rounds will be treatment of heart disease victims held at the> same time and place in the County Home. on Thursday, April 10; Friday;· Those students who were inter- Monday, April 14 and TUesday, ested in a more detailed outline of until .a winner is chosen. Mr. Cohn's problems were invited All entries must be in the Philo- to attend an interview with the mathean mailbox: in the Student city manager to . be conducted i? Acitivities Office no later than s·:oo Hale House by Professor Sussman s Saturday morning, Match 29; government class,_ Bryan, Film Official, Here Wednesday Julien Bryan, executive director • of the International Film Founda- tion, will present an illustrated lec- ture entitled \Tito'R Yugoslavia'' on March 26, in the Union College Memorial Chapel. The public is cordially invited to attend the lec- ture at 8:00p.m. A graduate of Princeton in 1921, Mr. Bryan is a photographer with a knack for getting to the spot where history is being made. In 1939 he was the last foreign photog- rapher to get out of Warsaw, with a suitcase full of film showing the final agony of the Polish capital. Since then he has done sequences for the \Mru·ch of Time,\ made a series of films on South Amerlcan countries, England, and Colonial Williamsburg, and directed the In- ternational Film Foundation, which ih 1950 produced three of the te11; best documentary films of the ye;u, Before becoming a lecturer and traveler,. Mr. Bryan, a graduate of Union Theological Seminary, was a social worker in Brooklyn. \Tito's Yugoslavia\ is a camera report in color oh the people and customs ·Of Yugoslavia. professor of bio-physics; Buell Hurd, chairman of the de- The Prom Committee, headed by William Snyder, has not yet selected a theme. Tickets will go on sale after Spring vacation. ---•0--- partment of chemistry; Harold At- kins Larrabee, chairman of the de- partment of philosophy; Ernest Mayfield Ligon, professo!· of psy- chology and director of the Char- acter Research Project; Vladimir Rojansky, Bailey professor of · physics; Harold E. Way, chairman Music of the department of physics; Ben- jamin Palmer Whitaker, Armstrong .G·u· est professor of economics; and Saul Professor on Campus Dushman, lecturer in physics and chemistry. Senior Annoul1lcernents Orde1·s for engra'l.'ed com- mf\ncP.ment announcemPnts and name cards wiU bt• taken in. the StudPnt Activities Office until nt•xt Friday, according to the offieers of the senior class. An unlimited number of an- nounC{Jments may be purchased by each senior at the cost of two for twenty-five cents. Seniors must pay at the time of ordering and 110 orders will be ae«>pted afier March 28. Dr. Gerhard· Herz, Professor of Music at the University~ of Louis- ville, wll visit campus on Wednes- day and Thursday, March 26 and 27. At 1:30 p.m. on Wednesday Dr. Hery wilJ discuss Beethoven's Ninth Symphony with Dr. Elmer Tidmarsh's Music Appreciation class in Memorial Chapel. This symphony will be performed In New York on the following Satur- day by Toscanini in a gala benefit concert. All students are invlted to attend the Wednesday discussion as guests of Dr. Tidmarsh. On Thurs- day, Dr. Herz will be the speaker at noon assembly program.

2 Qtnurnr ···~·------:m· !!!.':!.~' ~/~'. a;;:zeau=:== ~· ~~~=Sit*~~ toJ - ·- Member Assoclated Col- Editorial Otrlce,Washburn legiate Press and dtstrl- Hall, Union College. Pub- butor or the Collegiate lice. tlon O!!ice, The Ga- Dige.st. National A.dver- zette Press, 334 State St. Using Representative: Na- Entered in the Schenec- Uonal Advertising Service. tady Po~t Office as Sec- Inc., College Publishers ond Class Mail Matter, Representative. 420 Madi- subscnptlon lOc a copy: son .Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- $3 year delivered any- ·ilahed every Friday of the where in the United lfChool year. States. SENIOR BOARD JOHN J. CASSIDY JR. '53 .. ·.: ....•..•.................. Editor-in-Chief IRWIN S. BARG '53 ..................................... Sports ·Editor MONROE SILVERMAN '52 .....•...••.....••..••....•• Feature Editor AJ,FRED L. GOLDBERGER '54 .......................... !'ews F.rlitor M:ARTIN B. GORDON '5~ ............................... :Copy Editor HERBERT r.,. SPIRA '54 •............•.................... C'opy Editot• ALAN S. FORMAN '53 . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . Photography Editor GEORGE J. WRUBEL '53 ............. ; .............. Business Manager HORACE VAN YOAST '52 •....•....•...•........ Circulation Manager JUNIOR BOARD MARTIN HAUSER '56 •••.•••••.••••. ,, •.•.••••. Assistant Copy Editot• ALFHIDD H. KINGON 'o3 ..................... Assistant J:.~eature Editor HERBERT L. HILLER '52 • . . . . • . • . . • . . • . . • . • . . • . . . . Exchange Editor HOWARD BRODY '52 ................................ Exchange Editor ROBERT SILVERMAN '63 ....•. ,., ..•...• Assistant Business Manager CURTiS BATES '53 , , • , ••...•......• , . Assistant Circulation Manager B.EPORTERS 'Peten• Adler, Marvin Boris, Herbert Guston, Richard Heimann, Gary Katz Lewis Klein Eliot Loshal<, ll1artin Portnoy, Arthur Rosenfeld, Stewart Robinson, 'waiter Salm, .Alfred Scott, Donald Simmons, David Smith, Irwin Gertzog, Herbert Williams,. Paul Gilbert, Donald :.\1ohr, Frederic Morris, \Vatter Tower, Hoger Femstem. BUSINESS STAFF J'oseph Allen, Robert Beck, Lawrence Greenberg. CIRCULATION STAFF J. Lowell Davis, Joseph Martin, James Fitmaurice, !Uchard Borst, David Gregory, Gerardus Jameson, Htchard Lew1s. On Examining Motives Is it possible that the IFC defeated its p_urpose by voting for a rushing period deferred only t:ntil the a~­ interim marking period in November? We thm~ that t~1s may very well be the case, considering that the pr1!11e r;10tlv- ating force behind the adoption of d~ferred rushn~g 1s the complaint that the rushing system wh1ch has been m use at Union has been too short. Considering that the fraternities are worried abol!t finances first and pledging methods second, we fear that tlie period of deferment and the rushing period which follows it will be far too sllort to correct the errors which seemed so prevalent in the four week program. The biggest com- plaint was, of course, that the freshman fe!t that four we~ks was an insufficient time to make a dec1s10n; the excess1ve number of depledgings attested to this. On the other side of the fence, fraternities claimed that they had no chance to see many of the men they would have liked to have rushed. It is for the correction of these errors that the deferred rushing setup was proposed. But, will the delay of rushing for one-half of a semester really be an improvement? We hardly think so. Since the fraternities make the rule they will of course be looking toward their own welfare, not 'the rushees. With several of Union's fraternities in undeniably bad financial shape, we feel that the trend of voting in the IFC was unduly influenced by the necessity of bringing the pledge's money into the house as soon as pos- sible. With these selfish ends in sight, can we call the half term postponement more than a half hearted attempt? And furthermore, reading into this what you want, many houses will vote against the real rotation plan, because they don't want to waste the time or tfie food on men they won't con- sider rushing. In the interest of the fraternities and the rushees, it is about time that the fraternities purged themselves of their narrow minded attitudes. The fraternity system, for the most part, is concerned with its own survival. When, and only when it arrives at the conclusion that the best way to survive is to give fair tl·eatment to its means of survival, the rushees, will the problems cease to be. For these reasons, we feel that the full term deferment is the only feasible one, and with it we recommend the adop- tion of the meal rotation plan. To paraphrase, the frater- nities' best interest is the :rushees' best interest. We feel that the acceptance of the above recommendations would have been a step in the right direction. -J.J.C. A Popular Success Anyone who read the Rathskeller financial report in last week's issue of the Concordiensis can attest to the success of the most popular innovation on the campus. The 'skeller opened December 2, 1949, with little fanfare and a few misgivings. A campus affair all the way, it has pro- gressed better than even the biggest optimst would have forecast. It is a tribute to Tom Elliott, who was the driving force behind the project, and the staff who have operated and improved it since. Those of us who have seen the 'skeller born and grow know the task has not been an easy one. Expanding its facilities and staff, the Dutchmen's Rathskeller has kept prices down and still managed to make money. l)rot only that, but it provides another campus serv- ice in offering employment to members of the student body. We say \from cellar to 'skeller\ and well worth it. -J. J. c. ::\ FRIDAY. MARCH 21. '1952 theater whirled \Shrike\ Breaking By Richard G. Heimann [ It ha::t :beco:p1e great sport among ing, preaching false but popular screen writers an,d ,playwrights to cob.oeptlons, and furthering in~ .prove a point at . of the valid information concerning a still develqping field as important and as little and 1ittle under- understoo(! as is psychology. stood field of \Tl;le Shrike,\ a new play with chiatry. It is J0se Ferrer, is guHty of the same ly easy te> offense; but to a more subtle de- why this is gree. In it, a psyohiatrist calls a in ignorance patient ''a liar,'',.a situation which the workings would never -occur und!lr any prac- the field, tHioner of repute and conscience. with only the sen~ The hero, a sane man at best, is sational accounts interned in an institution for the of quacks at mentally ill .by his wife~ ·It is nil- hand, the public. possible for him. to prove his sanity is ready to freely to what ie represented as a corn- an atitl~de, it is· 'hoped, will even- petent board of psychiatrists. \HENDERSON! ... word has gotten to me that you've been licking your fingers •.. \ tually .disa;ppear with understand- A fine plot from a. theatrical ing and knqwledge. point of :view, J:mt dealing with a It should be the obligation of the situation that can hardly be provea entertainment industry, as it serves to eXist. For Your Information in somewhat ·()1' an educational And with such false .condeptjon,s capacity today, to further under-· placed in such realistic settings, it standing. in this vein. But in many is eas;y tq see ...w-hy the public might cases, it seems quite the opposite. feel towards analysts and psychi- FRIDAY, MAR. 2lr-AD INTERIM SCHOLARSHIP REPORT DUE. Daily Assembly-Erich Gansmuel- ·leT, Guest student from Austria, in a piano recital, MC, noon; Faculty Women's Club, OC, 8 p.m., Speaker, Prof. Wm. T. Winne; Play Produc- tion ·Class, \Angel Street\ Theater, 8:30 p.m. Call 4-3693 for reserva- tions. SATURDAY, MAR. 22-CEEB ex- aminations, C.hemistry Lab., 9 a.m.; Play Production Class, \Angel Street'', Theater,· 8:30 p.m.· SUNDAY, MAR. 23-Sunday Serv- ice, Preacher, Dr. Robert B. Ful- ton, Chaplain, of Union College, MC, 11 a.m. MONDAY, MAR. 24-Daily Assem- bly, Program by Student Council, MC, noon; Freshman Class meet- ing, MC, 4:30 p.m.; G1ee Club Re- hearsal, OC, 7 p.m.; Board of Man- agers, Hale House Lounge, 7 p.m.; Cosmopolitan Club, Silliman Hall, 7:30p.m. TUESDAY, MAR. 25-No Assembly Today, Transferred to tomorrow; Union College Christian Assn. M;l.l'- riage Course, OC, 4:30 p.m.; Union College Flying Club, CE Library, 7 p.m.; AlEE (Union Branch), EE 22, 7:30 p.m.; Red Cross Gradua- tion, OC, 8 p.m. · WEDNESDAY, MAR. 26 - Daily Assembly, Speaker, Mr. Julien Bryan, Executive Director of the International Film Foundation, Inc., MC, noon; Lenten Service, \.Angels in the Outfield.\ i:m:i(J.uced' atrists the way they do. If they Silliman Hall, noon, student lead- a year ago and having recei'\led are bombarded with propaganda er, John Maisel; .Music Class, MC, wide popularity since, is an ex:- which represents members of this 1:30 p.m., 13peaker, Prof. Gerhardt ample of a motion picture, which, profession in a negative an:d fear-· Herz, Professor ,of Musicology at in order to ,prove a· whimsical btit ful light, merely for the sa~e of the University of Louisvilie( all in- doubtful point, enlists the aid. of provitig a momentarily impe>rtant terested invited); Glee Club Re- the screenwriter in portraying the point, the viewing: audience is like- hearsal, OC; 4:30 p.m.; Art and psychiatrist -a$ a nut of the first ly to carry that conception into History 65 Classes, OC, 6 p.m., lee- -order; queer looking and loosely the 'World of everyday experience. ture on Chinese Art by Mr. Rich- hi-nged around the head. It is somewhat the same type of ard Edwards; AlEE .<Schenectady Whether it was necessary to the framework 'in which racial: pre- Chapter), EE 22, 8 p.m.; COLLEGE plot to. introduce this type of char- judices are strengthened, :ind re- LECTURE, OC, ·8 p.m. Mr. Julien acter IS not for me to say, but I •tards understanding and knowl- Bryan, Executive Director of the think it in extremely bad taste ',to edge o'f a field which is of vital International Film Foundation, Inc. P!;eSS' a desired point by humiliat- imp0rtance to man. Film of Yugoslavia, 2 POINTS ,---~--------~-~-.::._-~-~-~------~ ~:~~~~AY, MAR. 27-Dany As- Uniot:t Glee Club in ·\German Requiem\ sembly, Prof. Gerhardt Herz, Prof. The Umon College Glee Club and forma::nce will be the first time ·iii of Musicology, University of Louis- direc~or Robert Campbell will tl:ike several years that a major part .of ville, MC, noon. .part m a performance of Joi1an.nes it has been sung in Schenectady. FRIDAY, MAR. 28-Dally Assem- Brahms' \German Requiem\ at The Youth Orchestra .. will also bly, speaker, Mrs. Lee Ling Ed- 8:00 p.m. Tuesday, March. 25, at the present s~veral orchestral numbers wards, \Life on a Chinese Campus>', Erie Theater. Joining with the including a ~et of dances b; MC, noon; Debate, Philomathean Schenectady Women's Chorus, the Menotti Salta that has never before Society vs. LeMoyne University Gl~e Club will be part of a 130- been heard in Schenectady. The (Syracuse) English Reading Room, vo1ce vocal group appearing with orchestra ls under the direction of 8 p.m. Resolved: That the Federal the Schenectady Youth Orchestr-a Willa:rd I. Musser. · Government Should Adopt a .Per- in its second concert. of the season. Tickets for the concert are on manent Program of Wage and First Perfor~nce Here sale at the Van Curler Music Store Price Controls; Thursday Musical Four of the seven sections of the and may also be obtained· fro~ Club Concert, MC, 8:30 p.m. Pierre Brahms wo1•k will -be presented. any member of the orchestra· Glee Sangan, French pianist. Tickets at This is one of the masterpieces of Club or Women's Chorus ,or' from door. Followed by reception in ~horal music which is seldom. heard any meml;>er .of the Schenectady Old Chapel. m full because of its size and diffi- Junior Chamber of Commerce SATURDAY, MAR. 29 - Spring culty, and the Tuesday eve:ning per-- which sponsors the orchestra. ·) Recess Begins at Noon. MONDAY, APRIL 7 - Classes Resumed at 8 a.m. Letters to the Editor GAZETTE PRESS Dear Editor, I would like to call an important matter to the attention of all fresh- men and others using the faci1ities of the West College Lounge. A few individuals are taking maga- zines from the rack and failing to return them either thoughtlessly e>r purposely. New magazines like Life, Collier's, Reader's Digest and Popular Mechanics are disappear- ing the day they are put out on the rack. These individuals arc not respecting the rights of others, depriving them of a chance to read these magazines. The college does not want to buy magazines for in- dividuals and it has been suggested the .purchase of magazines for stu- dent's use might be suspended if the practice does not cease. It will be too bad if a 'few spoil it for the rest. One cigarette machine has already been removed from West College because some students tampered with the machine and scratched the wall with il:. This is a matter on ·which aU Union students can cooperate. Let us do so by reading the magazines only in the lounge and replacing them in the rack. .All the freshmen should make it a matter of class Dear Editor,- In· defense of the students in So- cial Studies lOb, who recently pre- dicted the outcome of the New Hampshire primary, may I point out th~t the consensus of the class was remarkably close on. Eisen- hower (46.7·% as compared with an actual 50%); virtually perfect on Taft (38.4.% as compared with 39%) and only over-optimistic about Stassen (14.9% instead flf 7%). As for Truman and Kefauver, nine of the public :Prophets out of ten had Truman with 75% to Ke- fauver's 25%; whereas the state- ment sent to the News Bureau on Saturday before the primary, and garbled in publication, read as fol- lows: \In the Democratic primary, the Union students evidently feel that President Truman will not roll up a 3-to-1 margin over Sen- ator Kefauver.\ Incidentally, while the consensus of the class favored Truman, mis- takenly, 11 students in the course correctly predicted a Kefauver vic- tory, and no less theh 4 of them predicted the exact percentages ob- tained by the two candidates. pride to see that no classmate '• \A prophet is not without honor violates this. reasonable request. 'save in his own country.'' John Sincerely yours, IV:44. GEORGE J. ZERVAS, President, Class of '55 Yours sincerely, HAROLD A. LARRABEE Placement News Interviews next week offgr con- sign up. The office will operate on siderable variety. On Monday, the policy of informi:qg companies March 24, there will be The Na- of the number signed up three or tional City Bank of New York, four days before the 'interview wanting ni.eh foi· both home and .. dates. If the cop:1pany wishes to foreign work. Mutual Life Insur- cancel, it will be their privilege. ance Company will interview for Early signing, therefore, wiil be both managerial and actuarial necessary to guarantee the com- trainees. On the next day, Tues- pany's visit. day, we have the Port of New York Authority; the interviewers are open to J:llen in all courses. They have a quantity of literature on their work for you to read. On March 27 Phiiadelphia Electric Co. will see electrical engineers. During next week please sign· up for interviews during the first week after recess. They are: The National Commercial Bank & Trust Co. of Albany; Scott Paper Co.; General Railway Sigli:al Co., bun &. Bradstrceet. Some men are waiting until' one or two days before interviews to Placement Bulletin No. 35 should reach you before March 27. If you do not receive one, please let us know., Room Rent Due Room rent of $50.00 for the sec- ond half of the current semester will be payable at the Business Office between the dates April 7•11 inclusive during the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 12 noon ·and 1:00 p.m. and 3:30 p.m. A late payment fee of $5.00 wili be due after April 11. Printers James Restaurant • GOOD FOOD at prices you can afford. Booth and Fountain Service 426 State Street A Good L. G. BALFOUR 00. l=raternity Jewelers BADGES • RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER. GUTS STATIONERY - :PBOGBAMB <JLUB PINS - KEYS .. MED~ - TBOPBlEB Write or call CARL SORENSEN 30 )i1lrl'l1.Y Ave. Wa~:rcl; N.'Y. PHONE TROY-ADAMS 8-252$ · Name is more to be~ desired than riches and in the purchase of fine jewelry in this acea, perhaps no name commands mor-e confidence +han Grau'bart & Sons. The name Graubart has become the answer when one 1s seeking. a fine DIAMOND . or an occasional piece of jewelry as a gift Hem. . Visit this fine store when yoLJ are jewelry minded._ 166 JAY STREET ·• Opposite Mohi!:an FRIDA'i Presid ha·ve tal ag~eed, Jted spl the th1 Union, ; St: l,.aVI taken tl 'interest, spirit oi Those small o1 spring I -necessa.1 a.pp~s were ju rid the _pense. this wa of ,theil t}le sp~ Some immedi< of the r that th~ It is .tl set the athletic goin,g o years; lE!tiCS, C the na· spring Whe:r Michigl presio:J.e: Commi1 cide tc s1,1ggest then C( in no!'l work a w~ll Pl letics l: to the larship, athlete< Inste tional: l the ·&a; It was that tl as the we :fiii< ing up are lik l;ldJ.Othe be mo: can't I leges,' J>poi'ts, offend' remed: will bt presid4 of ali their profes: ferenc It it .these less swimn which campt keep J begim to tht the : Confe • •

_ ... 3 FRIDAY, MARCH 21, 1952 The Spectator B b ll S d .O'BrienLooksOver Phi Delt Swim Champ, __ . ase ·- U.-- - ·qua . Lacrosse Material C y· Frank O'Brien's call for lacrosse D·' elta Phi ourt lCtor L k 11 . 0 'candidates was met with g.reat en- . o·o s . o· rp· en·er . thusiasmlast week, as over 40 men Phi Delta Theta led nine competing fraternities in . . . - : . ! : . . . . . turned out for the initial practice. Wl'n•nl·-ng the intramural swimming meet, which was held After two weeks of .intensive cales- • D 1 1952 .thenics, coach O'Brien had several last Tuesday and Wednesday afternoons. The Ph1 e t The Union College baseball team will open the · comments. He stated that there. swiminers ro1led up four first places and gained a total of campaign April 16 against Williams College at Williams- still is a need for men who have 100 points in winning the meet. President Davidson seems to town, Mass. For several weeks coach Art Lawrence has had any previous athletic experi- ~--------~---~- ha-ve taken. the best road when he : ence, since the team's quality ap- Cole, Wittner Win ag~eed, this week, to all~w a. lim- been running the team through basic conditioning drills, pears to be thin at this point. In the first of the three C!vents ).ted spring football practice. 0~ 8 ,tressing fundame:ntals. O'Brien has many promismg held on Tuesday, the 50 yard the three possible alterpatives, freshman, but can't pass judgment breaststroke event, George Cole, ·Of tJni6:1l, alimg with such schools as· Many Lettermen 0-~---~------,-'---~ on any of them until the squad· Delta Chi, was the winner with St: Lawrence and :Ro.chester, has The Union mentor, as yet, ha!'l s • G • d is outdoors. and can actually show Bill Hall of Delta Upsilon, Eliot taken the step which bests fits its not formed his starting line-up, al- prl_ng ·: .. ri . what they have. Obie is hoping . Loshak, ~f Kappa Nu, and John 'interests and, yet, keep!'! in the though the teain looks good. There that he will be able to find some Pape, of DU fol-lowing in that spirit of the NCAA suggestions. are many lettermen returning to (Continued from Page !) men who can help fiil the midfield order. Carroll Wittner set a new Those schools, especi~y the fortify each position, but the squad be for more than twenty qays dur- weakness~ In addition to the regu- intramural 100 yard freestyle rec- smaU ones, which have dropped _all lacks experienced personnel in the: ing a thirty consecutive day period,: Jar schedules, the team is going on ord when he won that eYent for spring .pra.ctj_ce have gone to an tin- pitching department. Junior Jim 'Hence, the twenty day sessions for. a sprtng trip which will take in Phi Delt. The next three places necessary e~treme and it aJ.::most Hogan is· the only holdover from Union, Rochester, and st. Lawrence. the Philadelphia area. Because of went to Bill O'Brien, of Alpha appe!U'S a,s though several -Of them last season, among the six candi- Amherst came up with a particu- 'the indoor practice hindering his Delt Frank Morgan, of Delta Up- were j'ust looking for an excuse to dates for pitching berths. Other. larly ambiguous .plan in elimlnat- judgment, the mentor had made no silo~, and IrWin Barg, of Phi rid themselves of the extra. ex· potential moundsmen are Jim Car-· ing spring practice. They will be, commitment as to what kind of a Sigma Delta. - _Jlense. Have1'ford suggested that rigg, BHl Booth, and Don Reed, running a special gym class for season he expects the team -to Phi Dclt took their second first this was pest for them since most a:ll freshmen, Glenn Ri!J.nS, and footba11 and soccer players; Prac- have. place in the 150 yard medley relay, of .their best athletes are out for Hobie DePuyt. DePuyt can double .tice sessions will not include \In- -~-o--- the last event of the afternoon, t}le spring sports, anyway. either on the mound or in right dividu,al participation by an under-. . with backstroker John Walsh, Some of the larger universities, ·field, the position he held down graduate in the sport in . question' Trackmen Combine brl?aststroker Randy Oram, and immediately after the publication last year. • ... \ Also, as originally planned,, freestyler Bucky Wittner teaming of the recommendations, announced In the catching department, three' gl'OUps of one to four men could Vets and Prospects up for the win. Delta Chi and two that they would net abide by them. men round out a capable crew ·of:.meet for instruction in \the special- · . ' · · DU teams also picked up place It is these s(lhools which have· to receivers. Dick Henry, Dick Schaef- ties.\ This according to President Once again our ears are becom- points in that event. set tl:i.e pace in cleaning t;tp college fer, and Paul 'Meader sbeuld pro-· Cole, is \a workable definition and: ing sensitive to the familiar sound O'Brien Tal,es Dash a . thletics. Union, which has been vide Union with strength ·in that: one that would not be too restric- · of spi'ked shoe on cinder, as the · O' · In a very close· finish, · Bnen goin,g on an even keel for so many position. In the infield, Bob Munvo tive.\ Union college track team has took the 50 yard dash, just touch- years; without emphasizing ath- and Bill Bloomfield are the ECAC to Meet started training for the coming ing out Carrol Wittner. Frank Ietics, can hardly hope to improve first base candidates, 'With Tom The Eastern -College Athletic 1952 season. Behind the able tute- Morgan was in the third spot and the national picture by d'ropping Corrigan and co-captai-n Dick: Conference has yet to meet and !age of Bill Ketz, the 52-man ag- Barg followed hini borne for fourth spring football practice. Munro out for the keystone sack.· take its action. It is expected, how- gregation will tl'Y to impvove on .place poin.ts. John Walsh gave Phi When schools like Notre Dame, Ted Caldes seems to have short-: ever, that they will take a new ·the 1951 record of 3 and 3. Delt another first by taking the 50 Michigan State, and SMU, whose stop tied d~wn, and third base is and more extensive poll of its A quick rundown of the as yet yard backstroke event. Stretch presidents were on the Special still a question mark, Among the members and its' recommendations undeveloped ·squad shows letter- Layton, of Beta Theta Pi, was Committee on Athletic Policy, de- con:tenders for the slot are Joe might .possibly reverse the policy man Frank Kiwus and frosh Joe second; and Oram and Charlie cide td' follow the spirit of such Loffredo, who seems greatly im- ·now going into effect. That meet- Mudry, along with speedster Bill Mills, of Delta Chi, finished behind sl,lggestions, rather than the letter, proved since last season, .. Jim ing will not affect the plans for Biles,. handling the 100 and 220 him in that order. then college athletics wiil be back Waters, and freshman Jerry Tish- this spring, however, J:>ecause -it will yard dashes. Carrying the quarter In the concluding event of the in normal proportion with school enkel. The outfield finds three var- not be held until after the semester. mile honors will probably be Bus meet, the 200 yard freestyle relay, work and activities. Then, too, it ·sity lettermen in co-captain Bill ·st. Lawrence has stated that it Burns and Pat Fuggazato. Pacing John Walsh, Carroll Wittner, will probably be found that ath- Harris Gene Schwartzman, and would abide by the rulings of the the Union half-milers will be John Bucky Wittner, and Randy Qrnm letics have assumed ·a role similar Robie ' DePuyt. Fl;eshman Mike Eastern College Athletic Confer- Larkin and Kenny Stein, while the teamed up for the· win, in the com- to the one at Union, without scho- Medel is also a candidate. ence. Rochester, which has ,peen unbea,table Dick Dolan will com- paratiYely good time of 1:59. The Union Riflemen Go To Meet at Norwich Six riflemen, including four freshman sharp-shooters will jour- ney to Northf-ield, Vermont this weekend to repre'sent Union at the National Intercollegiate Rifle championships to be held at Nor- wich University. While there, the Union team will participate in the National team and individual .matches which are being staged in conjunction with the Intcrcbl- legiates. Won Three Matches With the addition of four top- notch freshman riflemen this year the little-publicized College team has gained stature and prestige by trouncing three out of four Col- lege opponents in \postal matches\ scored by the National Rifle As- sociation in Washington. The team has also fired in the Connecticut Championships and the Hearst Na- tional Tournament for which the results have not yet been released. Freshman regulars include Herb Williams, Sid Dunbar, and Harry Hamil, all of whom have achieved the N.R.A.'s highest rating of Dis- tinguished Rifleman. Another frosh, Peter Tierney, copped third place in the junior division of last summer's National championship competition. Upper c 1 as s m en Charles Stuart and Peter Edinger will also make the trip to Vermont this weekend. larships. or undue financial aid for Positions Stili Open practicing all winter, in their field (C t' d p 4) (Continued on Page 4) house, has cut out its winter prac- ___ :_:o::::n:::l:n:u:::e:::_:::o:n~· .::a::g~e~::_ _____ .:.:_:.=:==__:_ ___ _::_ ____________________ _ athletes. A·ll positions on the team are t• · · •t f th m Instead. of improving,. the na- Ice m the sp1r1 o e reco - tl ·o--·•· ~\ene seems to be rema•mn· · .- still open with few exceptionds. mendations of the NCAA. • ._... ~ · ·• \' Coach Lawrence may take a - the same, perhaps •getting worse. vantage of the versatility of some. It was just a few short yeal'S ago of his pla:yers and use them in that the Sanity Code was hilled either the outfield or the infield. as the elixir of college sports. Now With· warm weather expected in we fiiid the ACE and NCAA com- the .near future, the squad is 1\eady- ing up with improved ideas, which ing itself for. outdoor practice ses- are likely to do little good·;. and in sions. These outdoor drills will give another couple of years there will coach , Lawrence a better chance be mor1.1 'suggestions~., These plans to evaiuate his material and formu- can•t hope to work with small col- l~:Lte his starting line--qp. leges, whic)! don't reaUy emphasize ,.ports, concurring and the ma.jor Football Candidates There will be a short meeting of all 1952 football candidates in the Trophy :Room of the gym- nasium at 1:00 p.m. Tuesday, March 25. All candidates are urged to attend, even thoUgh they may be on a spring sport . squad. Also, interested students · who have not previously been on a football squad are urged to attend. The practice sessions will be held after the spring vao cation. offenders doing nothing. The rulings affect the big schools? The remedy for the ills of college spo1'ts answers to these questions ·will be will be found when the big.,college forthcoming soon, but Union could presidents maintain the same spirit. not change the national picture by of altruism, when dealing with . gg~o~in~g~t~o~ei~t~h~e~r~e~x~t~r~em~e~-~;:;=:;~~~~~~~§~~~~~~~~~~ their athletic directors, that they 1 ~ f::!~::s:n the ammal national con- SAVE 15% ...,.. O.N FOOD COSTS SAVE 150/0 n is also to be wondered how T RESTAURAN.T AN'D BAR . these suggestions will affect the. NOT . . · ' less glamorous sports .such as 1c T k t 0 d C II S h --6-9766 swimming, lacrosse, and soccer, For Quic a e-ou r ers a c · which are the big sports on some . Raw, Steamed Clams campuses,. Will they attempt to . \Meet and Eat at EDDIE'S\ keep pra~tice in these sports fr?m beginning before four weeks pri?r 5 47 Nott St., opposite Sreen Gate Schenectady, N. Y. to the opening game? What w~ll 5 . 1t5 75 f $5 00 the Eastern Collegiate Athletic MEAL TICKET - . • or . Confer~nce decide? Will the new • Polished Chestnut Cordovan .. ,. • Genuine Shell Cordovan $17 9 ~ Other F,....man'• 18•95alldup . ... ,,:\ .. Known as the finest and most flexible of its kind by Cordovan f;mciers! Brilliant and enduring hootleat_her whosll deeptoned- richness takes on an added luster with every shine. Try this on as the season's top Cordovan value! Its a FREEMAN Shoe THE FOOTWEAR OF succ&SSFUL MEN' NUSBAUM'-\S Shoe Department \The· Nation's Leading Brands · For Men and Boys\ 447-451- STATE STREET 0 •• •.. Aviation Cadet P-rogram Otfers Spedal Opportunities for Collegians Now Preparing for Military Service Here is a :real man-size opportw.rlty! You can choose-immediately-,-between being a Pilot or Aircraft Observer in America's sW:iftly-eJq>anding Air Force. The Air Force encourages candidates to stay in school and graduate. However, seniors and stu- dents with two years or more of college who anticipate early entrance into military service can insure their future and serve their coWltl:'Y best by applying for Aviation Cadet Training today. You receive the finest training and experience when you fly with the U.S. Air Force-eJqJerience that pays off in later years. 3. Accomplish Flying Aptitude Tests and en- list for two years only! 4. The Selective Service Act awards you a four- month deferment while awaiting class assign• ment. WHO MAY APPI. Y AGE-Between 19 and 26112 ,years. IDUCATION-At least two years of college. MARITAL STATUS-Single. ~~ · 5. Immediate assign- PHYSICAL CONDITION-Good, eJ1peclally eyes, ears, heart, and teeth. HOW TO QUAliFY 1. Take transcript of col- lege credits and copy of birth certi:fig_ate to your nearest Air Force Base or Recruitllig Station. 2. A_Pp~ for physical exam:mationat your near· est Air Base at Govern• ment expense. WHERE To Get More Details ·VISit your-nearest U. S. Air Force Base or U. S. Army-U. S •. Alt Force Recruiting Station or write direct fo Aviation Cadet, Head- quarhlrs, U. $. Air force, Washington 25, i>. C. ment to Aviation Caaet Training Classes starting May 27, July 19, August 19 and October 2_, 1952. 6. Attend Aviation Cadet Training School for one year-either as ~..:a~~l.l Pilot or Aircraft Observ- er. Get $105 monthly plus food, housing, uniforms, and other benefits. 7. Graduate and win your wings! Commis- si•med as a second lieu- trJnant, you begin earnin$ .._,~__.. ... $5,000 a year. In addi- tion, you receive $250 uniform allowance and a 30-day leave with pay.

4 Kurt Pohl Discusses New Germany's Role In East-West Crisis .. By E•iot Loshak \Let's talk about present-day Germany,\ was the first thing that Kurt Pohl, the HELP student guest of Sigma Chi, said to me as I interviewed him the other day. Kurt feels that the Germany of Hitler is a thing of the past and that Americans must think in terms of a new Germany, ready to take her place in the community of nations. Government Major F.RJD~Y, MARCH 21, 1952 Graduation Fe·e EE's to Hear Only 50 Sign Intramurals . . \ (Continued from Page :l) beG~:~::;o~/:e 0 ~u~!:s ~~ • WGR.G. Baker Blood Pledge ~~a~~~i ~i~;:au~!~~~n,f~r~k~dc~~ flee ON OR BEFORE SATUR- . • Next TuesdaY evening, March 25, The Student bloodmobile commit- ·that order, behind the leader. DAY, APRIL 12. Veterans who t·he Student Branch of the A.I.E.E. In compiling. the· total points, 40 wish to J•:O.ve this fee c'-,--·ged tee announced today that fifty men o'nt · t h t ~ .LI!tW. will have as its guest sealter, Dr. P I a were given · o eac · earn against their G.I. Bill should . W. R. G. Baker, vice president of have signed up to donate blood' to entering six men. Phi Delt gained obi:;tin a credit slip floom Mr. the General Electric Company. Dr .. the mobile Red Cross unit for the 60 placement points, in. addition Ketz and present to Mrs. Hayes · Baker, a graduate of Union, .and oenefit of wounded .servicemen 'to the ·entrance points. DU totaled at tlhe Business Office. . . . ' . 72.4 points, Delta Chi was .third Seniors are urged to pay their graduation fee on time in or<ler to avoid a iate payment charge . of $2.00. the person for whom Schenectady's smce the .start of the dnve this with 136 • 4 , and :Phi Sigma Delta &nd television station, WRGB, was. week named, is one ·Of the counti·y's lead-.: . · . Beta Theta Pi tied for fourth with / ing authorities in the field of tele- , . Since -at lea~t 125 pledges Will ?e. 4'7.2 points. , vision, and will spea·lt on the sub- needed to brmg. the .bloodmobile.· In the playoffs of the baslretball ject, \The Television Business.\ here, the .committee, headed by tournament, Delta Phi downed The business of television is a . Frank Youn~ a:r;d Joseph Hen~t,. Phi Delt 42-26, in the semi finals; R h El t d highly centroversial subject, affect- expr~ssed theJ.r discontent and dis- The D Phi club arso took the fi11al ens . a W . ec e . · ing not only the technical fields, appomtment at . t~e . slowness of contest, beating the Engineers 31- but also many other phases .of our , the campus subscnpbon. 21. Ken Van Wagner, Charlie Car-, College Trustee T · b th ·:t>enter, Dick Kabat, Jim Salerno, · · . · :present economy. Recently, color wo_ reasons were grven. y · e. d , . Kurt is 21 and hails_ from !he many some time ago. He expected television has added to -the existing , committee for the considerable· rna e up the winning club. town of Neu Ulm. He Is studymg to stay for two weeks but he was Presidel!t Carter Davidson of problems, so that .today the tele- ,hindrance of the d-rive's success: government and economics here at so horrified by the lack of free- Union Col.Jege tooay announced· vision industry exerts a certain in- l. The pre-marking p e r i o d. Union _and hopes . to en~er law or dom and the general nature of the fluence on a major portion of our exams have held much of the at-: some fteld of pubhc. set'Vt~e to help, Communist regime that he re- that Alfred Renshaw of Loudon- population·. tention af the student body. the new Gerrr~any 1n whic_h he so turned home after five days. He ville, was elected life trustee ef the Becat:!se of the w:idespread inter- 2. The main drawback has been· earnestly beheves. He 16 very feels that Americans who have not . College a.t a recent meeting of the est in th.is subject, the A.LE.E. in- due in part to th!l attitude that a· happy over the recent trends to- been in Europe cannot really ap- board· of trustees in New York vites all interested individuals and pint of ·blood is worth $25. at Ellis ward democracy in Germany and preciate the situation. groups to attend. The meeting will' Hospital. thinks that the neo-Nazi movement City. has been distorted in the American To Kurt, the greatest need for take place at 7:30 p;m. Tuesday, I~;;;;:;;;;;:;;~;;:;;;;;;::;;;;;~ G · d d f h Mr. Renshaw received his civil March 25, in Room 22 of the Elec- 1:1 press. Actually, according to Kurt, ermany and, tn ee ' or t e engineering degree .from Columbia t . 1 E . . B 'Jd' the neo-Nazis are a very small and whole whorld, is people with an · nca ng.meenng U1 mg. ineffectual minority. idc~s~ic sr~rit d v. ho are ready to ~n~~:rs~~;~ ~~ 1 t;·us~e~~s or'J.:l~:~~ ---·o--- The American newspapers play wor or liS ream of a secure Medical College, a member of the ~Skeller Open Sunday up all neo-Nazi tendencies far out and peaceful world. board of Governors of Albany Hos- John Thomas, Jr., General Man- ager of the Rathskeller, has an- nounced, that in keeping with the new policy of serving Sunday breakfasts, the Rathskel'ler will be open from 9:00-11:30 a.m: Sunday. of proportion to their real import- ---- o--- pita!, trustee of the Troy Savings ance. In an election held just last • Bank, and director of the State Sunday, the neo-Nazis polled only Track Combines Bank of Albany. , two percent of the total vote and Mr. Renshaw is married and has did not get any seats in the Ger· C man Parliament. What Kurt ob- t ontinued from Page :l) three children. jected to was the fact that the elec- pete in the mile. Behind Dolan, tion results received a little spacf' Gari Clough and Elliot Schechter in the Nrw York Times and no loom up as formidable contenders. space in the other nl'wspapers. He Turning from the track events feels that this kind of thing serv~s we find a host of capable candid- to give Americans the wrong idea ates for the field events. Sopho- of the German government and. mores Ed O'Meally and Bill Morris more impo 1 ·tant, the wrong idea of will take care of the shot putting the German people. The German duties, while Tom Giambruno will people are sick of dictatorship and be tossing the discus. Lew MuUer war and very few Germans, ac- and Ken Johnson will be seeing cording to Kurt, want a return to plenty of action throwing the anything like the Hitler govern- javelin. · ment. Big East-·west Conflict Kurt is much concerned over the conflict between East and West. especially as it pffects his nativ<' Germany. He has relatives in the Russian section of GPrmany and he visited them in Eastern Ger- Wia Free Smokes Union students have a chance to win free smokes for the next four weeks from Chesterfield campus representative Harvey Kronick. When .:'.lr. ABC approaches you and asks, \Do yuu knuw the Chester-Fact?\ you can win two free packs. Complete contest rules are posted on all bulletin boards. The Chester-Fact for this week is \Chesterfields are much milder- with extraordinarily good taste and no unpleasant after-taste.\ LUIGI•s RESTAURANT Specializing in Italian-American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schen. 6-9744 Enjoy our Sizzling Steaks and Chops FERRo•s REST AU RANT Mr. and Mrs. George Ferro, Proprietors 1115 Ba!'1rett St. PRIVATE ROOM FOR PARriES Specializing in Italian-American Food PHONE 6-9554 GUERRA 1 S PHARMACY • Fountain Prescriptiot:ts Sundries • 600 Union St., Cor. Barrett St. In Technicolor with Robert Taylor STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE Marlon Brando also Pride of Maryland )' I ~ CHESTERFIELDS are much MI'LDER one! give you the ADDED PROTECTION of • Watches, Jewelry Clocks Repaired • Engraving, too! ay Jewlery C•o. NO UNPI.EASANT AFTER-TASTE* ' *FROM THE REPORT OF A WE~L-KNOWN RESEARCH ORGANIZATION ~-/IB ~~pROPRIETOR D q/} .. ...... ... . ' SlGNE · · ·.' .. Vol. ·~ Th men~ and i to we cil tc The of a r His i £orcec seiX).eE meal wood embo' from ban < of de: InterJ the s· A l tated, the f, deletE rotati amen the 1 7-13. To we one estab comn Th• day, catio: trio groUJ LesJi. taglil Hoct presE As: on. 1 cone• ant 1 Gera the acce] poin1 Ja: dent pass• from cil d appr Nati an e The pron ben cons A men bod~ Chri SUPI the· prO I age I In this ally ing men the chaJ preE cam thei the box the as 1 Lc w T Del thil faci legc 8!0( '[ Rol on thu wil the I re:t: iM sen tw• ter ex] an• Ilia Co ~it

/ llttbiltt Interesting Letters To The Editor 'Page 2 Founded at Union CoUege in 1877 Vol. 79~ No. 19 SCHENECTADY. N.Y .• , FRIDAY, MARCH 28, 1952 The action came as the result u • M k of a motion by Eugene Underwood. . nton . . a es His :tnotion would have virtually forced the IFG to adopt the one F • l Pl semester deferment as well as the . tna . ans meal rotation plan. The Under-' wood proposition would. have also F p t embodied.rules prohibiting the IFC ' or . aren S from making any exceptions to the ban on rushing during the period Unless any unforeseen cir- of deferral, and demanded that the cum.stances arise, the final. Interfraternity Council recognize. urogram for the second an- the supremacy of the SC. -\' W k d h A heated discussion was precipi- nual Parents ee en · as tated, and the first change was in been completed, according to the form of an amendment which Gerald E. O'Loughlin, presi- · deleted ~:J,ny reference to the meal d t f th D 1 h' S · ty rotation .plan. After passing the eii· . 0 e · e p lC OCle amendment, the gr.oup defeated which is sponsoring the af- the Underwood plan by a vote of fair, April Uf-20. 7-13. Soon afterwlO\.rd, Walter Invitations Mailed Tower's motion recommending the Letters of invitation have been one semester deferral and the sent out to the parents of all Union establishment of the intergroup students and to all members of the committee was passed. faculty and administration urging Committee to Meet them to participate. Over the forth- The committee will meet on Mon- coming spring vacation, a second day, April 7, following Spring va- letter wil1 be sent out to the cation to arrange an agenda. The parents to further encourage their trio from the SC who are on the attendance. group are: Underwood (chairman), The program, as it is now ar- Leslie Couch and Anthony Tar- ranged, will open Friday afternoon taglia. IFG president Robert when the early arrivals will regis- Hochuli ·has yet to select his re- ter. Members of the Delphics will presentatives. . form a welcoming committee to Aside from the stormy sessiOn meet the parents both at the train on. rushing the Student Council station and on campus. concerned itself with other import- On Saturday morning, April 19. ant legislation .. The resignation of all class buildings·and laboratories Gerald O'Loughlin as chairman of will be open to the guests. Follow- the Student Tax Committee was ing lunch in the afternoon the accepted, and Herbert Rie was·ap- parents will have the opportunity pointed as his successor. to watch Union's baseball, lacrosse, Jay Cohn's plan to study the stu- and tennis teams perform. Fra- dent attitude toward Proms was ternity houses will throw open passed. It was changed somewhat their doors all day Saturday to from a similar bill that the Coun- the maters and paters of their cil defeated two weeks ago. Also, members. approval was given to joining the Following an informal discussion National Students Association on period late Saturday afternoon be- an experimental basis for one year. tween parents and faculty mem- The stipulation hinged on the bers, dinner will be served at the promise tbat there would have to· fraternities and in West College be no changes in the student body Dining Hall. In the evening there constitution. will be a coffee hour. for faculty The student body met Monday in Question UCCA Support and parents, probably in Hale Memorial Chapel and, at that time, Students OK· Frosh Group f h c '1 House lounge. d h 1 · 1 t d Jete A motion by res man ounc1 Glee Club to Perfol'IIl vote overw e mmg y o e b r James Brown that the from the constitution the several mem e · f th The Glee Club will present a body withdraw recognition o e concert in Memorial Chapel at S:OO articles dealing with temporary Christian Association as a tax- freshmen representatives on the supported activity was tabled until p.m. Saturday. The weekend will Student Council. the next meeting. A Walter Tower be concluded with the Sunday The meeting, directed by Council P roposal that the Board of Man- morning Chapel service, scheduled President David Walrath, was the d for 11:00 a.m. :br. C; P. Shedd of agers be investigated was pas.se · the Yale Divinity School will be initial step in the establishment of In one of its longest sessions a Freshman Council. The second this year, the Student .council fin- the guest speaker at the services. proposal of the· SC was also ally concerned itself With the com- Delphic President O'Loughlin ado\ted. It ratifies the SC recom- said he hoped that all students .- ing cl?-SS elections. Two recqm- will take advantage of the vaca- mendation that a temporary fresh- Graduation Fee mendations were passed. One was tion to encourage their parents to man elective group be allowed to the Leslie Couch proposal that a attend the weekend, According to function until midway through the c~a~edl Pt:o 1 gr~~d~~a::! ~s;d\h~~~ O'Loughlin, the program ha~ as its second term when permanent Stu- pies! ~n Ia s to present purpose, not only to P.r?VIde an dent Council elections talte place. Graduation fee of' $15.00 will campa1gn manager · bl t' f th tor but Gerald O'Loughlin, outgoing be payable at the Business Of- th · · '1 tr ~ · The other was.. enJoya e Ime or · e VISI · s, · · president of the Student Tax Com- ft'ce ON OR BEFORE \ATUR· eir P ~ , orms. f b 11 t also .to afford them an opportunity l!'> the prov1s10n· of the use. 0 a 0 d to see what college life is like, and mittee, reported on the financial DAY, APRIL 12. Veterans who boxes rat~er thatn mf aBch~~:ys, ~~11 the advantages that Union offers status of that group. He com- wish to bave this fee charged the establtshmen o ai their sons. mented that the committee reports against their G.I. Bill should as the .place for voting. This yeal' the Delphics are trying a balance on hand, with which late obtain a. credit slip frO<m Mr. 0 . h. to improve over last year's affair, emergencies can b'e m'lt this year Ret:~; and present to Mrs. Hayes LeM . oyne to Mate although the parents voted their as well as having a carryover until at the Business Office. . overwhelming approval of the in- next term. According to O'Lough- Seniors are urged to pay their W . •tS WI\th Phi.lOS. augural Unfortunately, \Angel lin, the activity fee for the second graduation fee on time in order 1 · Street\ · cannot be presented as semester was two dol)ars less as to avoid the late payment This evening the Philomathean formerly planned, because . of the a result of the surplus created by charge of $2.00. · Debating Society will present the een~o~rm~o~u~s~co~s~t::_. --------~_..:t:h:e_M=o::.:u:n~t:e:::b:a:n:k:s:_' _:f:o::ld~U:P:·~ ___ __:_:::============== third home debate of the season - facing a group fl'om LeMoyne Col- lege of Syracuse in Bailey Hall, at 8:00p.m. Union will be represented by Robert Ballard and Martin Hauser on the affirmative team, while Ar- thur Feldman and Herbert Spira will handle the negative side of the question. Looking. to, the future, the Philos report that plans for the fortbcom- iM mock debate in the Albany As• sembly are nearly complete. Over twenty schools have already regis- tered and at least ten more are expected to reply soon. Accept- ances have been. received from such Eastern iuminaries as Syracuse, Cornell ahd Saint John's Univer- sities, as well as Brooklyn College. Candidates for Class Elections . ... Voting will be held in Bailey Hall, Wednesday, April 9. Student Council elections will be held a week later, April 16. . \' CLASS OF 1953 CLASS OF 1954 President William R. Holzapfel Richard V. Rapacz Werner Reiners Melvin A. Shiffman William J. Snyder Treastll'er Elwyn V. Harp Secretary Ricpard S. Nemeth President \ Richard W. Henry Joseph C. Honet William Kessler Edmund C. O'Meally Lynn Shay Joseph T. Wilkinson Treasurer Frank P. Panariello Armon H. Toomajian Secretary James F. Hoffman Peter R. Mund CLASS,OF 1955 President James D. Brown Jesse H. Dickson Lee W. Michalsky Richard J. Rubin Treasurer Jerome B. Frank Ronald H. Levine Thomas J. Miles Seeretltry Ralph G. Schilling •• Major League Baseball Prediction$ Page 3 PRICE 1 0 CENTS

2 arnu.cnr Member Associated Col- legiate Press and distri- butor or . the Collegiate Digest. National Adver- tising Representative: Na- tional Advertising Service. Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madi- son Ave .. N. Y. C. Pub- lished every Friday or the school year. Editorial Ortlce,Washburn Hall, Union College. Pub- lication Ottice, The Ga- zette Press, 334 State St. Entered in tlle Schenec- tady Poet Office as Sec- ond Class Mail Matter, subscription lOc a copy: $3 year delivered a!l'Y- where In the United States. SENIOR BOARD JOHN J. CASSIDY JR. '53 .............................. Editor-in-Chief IRWIN S. BARG '53 ..................................... Sports Editor MONROE SILVERMAN '52 .....•........•.••••....• '\. Feature Elditor ALFRED L. GOLDBERG En '54 .......................... News Editor MARTIN B. GORDON '54 ................................ Copy Editor HERBERT L. SPIRA '54 ·, ................................. Copy Editor ALAN S. FOTIMAN '53 ......•.....•.......••..... Photography Editor GEO:RJGE J. WRUBEL '53 ............................ Business Manager HORACE VAN VOAST '52 ....................... Circulation Manager JUNIOR :BOARD MARTIN HAUSER '55 ...•.....• , , •..•...•....•• Assistant Copy Editor ALFREJD H. KINGON '53 .................... Assistant Feature Editor HERllERT L. HILLER '52 .......................... Exchange Editor HOWARD BRODY '52 ................................ Exchange Editor ROBERT SILVERMAN '53 ..•.•....•••..•• Assistant Business Manager CURTIS BATES '53 ...........••..•.•• Assistant Circulation Manager REPORTERS Peter Adler, Marvin Boris, Herbert Guston, Richard Heimann, Gary Katz, Lewis Klein, Eliot Loshak, Martin Portnoy, Arthur Rosenfeld, Stewart Robinson, Walter Salm, Alfred Scott, Donald Simmons, David Smith, Irwin Gertzog, Herbert Williams, Paul Gilbert, Donald Mohr, Frederic Morris, \Valter Tower, Hoger J<ceinstein. BUSINESS STAFF Joseph Allen, Robert Beck, Lawrence Greenberg. CIRCULATION STAFF J Lowell Davis, Joseph Martin, James Fitmaurice, Richard Borst, David <Jregory, Gerardus Jameson, Richard Lewis. Student Council Has Progressed The Student Council has gone on record as recommend-. ing the abolition of freshman hazing, and with it the re- moval of the Sophomore Discipline Committee. If these proposals can be enforced, they are a sign that the Council has progressed a long way since its hard times of over a year ago. At that time, the SC was indicted for its lethargic at- titude, and the ambiguous constitution it was working unde~. Since that time we assure you that the Student Counc1l has become a ~uch stronger force. With its constitution rewritten, and a more stable group of men running the lJo<ly, we feel that the council is taking its rightful place in campus affairs. Although the accomplishments of the SC are self re- vealing, there are some who don't realize the tasks the group trying to accomplish. This is fairly evident with the lackadaisacal way in which the student body treats the SC Monday chapel meeting. Regardless of how the \do nothing\ student body treats the Council's proposals, we cannot use the same terminology in speaking of the Council. The Council, we feel certain, is doing the right thing in abolishing hazing, and in setting up a Freshman governing body. For one reason, hazing, as such, cannot promote the aim it desires-the stimulation of school spirit. We feel, rather, it is a depressant of school spirit. Many of the present frosh verbally expressed their abhorrence, and even fear of the hazing program. Rivalry week, if it is emphasized as the Council pm- poses, will provide the outlet of spirit which hazing set forth in a more animalistic way. In the same way, the Pajama parade, or what it should really be termed, an unregulated romp through the streets of Schenectady, may become a fine outlet for school spirit, with more emphasis on the campus football rally. In this way the freshmen will not be bullied or suffer under the SDC, which only stifled spirit. There will be a formal program conducive to that spirit, and the proposed Freshman Council will lend an air of responsibility, which we feel will develop the leadership necessary to the continu- ance of strong campus activities. -J.J.C. IDOL Changes Are Wise The issue of The IDOL magazine published this week is, in its essence, an important step. Long devoted to the style of a literary magazine; The IDOL has adopted a \newsy\ format, which we feel will make it more popular, and lend itself to more student support. In the past The IDOL has had its lean years. A literary magazine has its necessarily limited number of contributors on a campus the size of Union. When Edwin H. White re- activated the publication last year, he accepted an herculean task. He continued the tradition of a literary magazine, but he soon found himself narrowing down his staff .to keep the desired quality of stories. As a result, his editorship be- came nearly a full time job. With its new editorial staff, the magazine, we feel, has taken a step which was inevitable for The IDOL's survival. Facing facts, there aren't enough good writers on campus to keep a top-notch literary magazine going. This issue is not really a novelty. There has been sports coverage in The IDOL before, and columnists have held forth in its pages. Therefore, the change is not essentially radical, rather, wise. Kudos to the IDOL. However we may differ in our editorial policies, we are certain, with its new format that magazine will be a true sister of the. Concordiensis, a~d its future will be assured. -J.J.C. , . -. . ·• ...................... _ - .. '\; .. .._ ··.-. ~ --# ••• ,..,.,..,. ..... :=:z::::---~ • ~ \.' .. OliTFUI\IT&O IV VM LEETLE BOY-.!\ Letters to the Editor YV alrath Explains Council Policy Dear Editor: I ~m writing this to clear up any question about the relation of the Student Council and the IFC, with regard to the current question of deferred rushing. Up to last Tues- day, the Student Council had taken n() formal action on the matter, but informally several members, my- self included, had contacted the IFC urging a reconsideration of the plan they had passed for an eight week deferral. In reconsidering the eight week vs. the six:teen week plan, both with and without the rotational meal system, the IFC decided again to have an eight week period without a rotational meal system. In proposing the rotational meal plan, the main consideration was the complaints of various houses that they needed freshmen pledges eating at their tables in order to operate their kitchens without a financial Joss. If they do not feel that this plan is a satisfactory answer to the financial problem no one would have any quarrel with them on that score. However, at the Student Coun- cil's last meeting, that body de- clared itself, by a 16-4, vote as in favor of a deferred rushing plan of sixteen weeks. This decision was made as being in the best in- terests of the whole college com- munity, and there can be no ques- tion that rushing is a problem that touches a:Jmost every phase of our life here. I believe that the argu- ments for and agair.st this plan have been presented enough so that it is not necessary to repeat them here, but I would like to make the position of the Student Council clear. This -is the first formal declara- tion of policy by the Council on this subject. Consequently this matter was referred again to the IFC to see if that group could reach a decision in line with this policy. In the event that the IFC cannot reach such a decision, the Student Council may, if it desires, take stronger action at its next meeting. It is, however, my opinion that one of the major difficulties con- fronting the IFC in solving this or any other problem is that of ab- S!\nteeism. To my knowledge no vote has been taken on this matter <rushing) with more than 14 houses present. This would seem to be important enough to bring all 18 houses to the meeting. In- deed, it demands that all 18 houses are present and voting, and I want to urge t'very house to have its delt'gate there and instruct him as tQ the wisht>s of the members of the house. · · · ·· ·· - ·In closing, I should like to clear up the matter of jurisdiction. The IFC operates under a delegate grant of power from· the Student Council, thus giving the Council the right to reverse the IFC de- cisions by the removal of this dele- gated grant of power. Sincerely, DAVE WALRATH Writers Stir Up Mountebanks Question Now that the Play Production Class has completed its presenta- tion of \Angel Street,\ we feel that the Union community must start giving some thought to the future of dramatics at the College. This was the first time in the last few years that dramatics functioned academically at the College !'ather than as a student activity function. When Mountebanks became of- ficially defunct at the start of the school year, a good deal of notice was taken by the Studeilt Council and the student body. A special committee was appointed by the Council at tha.t time to investigate the situation in Hanna Hall. One function of the committee was to try to .ascertain the extent of stu- dent interest in dramatics as: an activity at Union College. The com- mittee ha.s been. spasmodically heard from. We suggest certain areas of consideration for- them and particularly for the college com- munity. The first question that arises is what is ,to be the position of dra- matics at Union College 7 Dra- matics, as handled this year, stresses perfection of performance. As a student activity, (j.ramatics stresses student participation. and the opportunity for expression as the student sees fit. It need not mean, however, incompetence of performance. It must ·be considc ered which of these alternatives best advances the aims of a small college whicj:l has striven to pro- mote a democra.tic, and non-pro- fessional atmosphere in its .student activities. The alternative of stres- sing professionalism, abandoning as it does the aims of the small college, ·cc;>uld ultimately lead to abandoning the smallness of the college. It could also severely cramp the individual's oportunity for expression and participation. The second question is what should be the extent of student in- i.el•est in dramatics for it to be a. successful activity? We feel that the committee has been laboring under the misconception that a larg.e }lercentage of the student 'body is needed to run such an ac- tivity. If that were true, there would be scarcely an activity op- crapng on campus. However., preliminary reports from the investigation committee indicate an unexpectegly large group interested in. dramatics as an activity. We are pleased, but not excited, over such figures. The activity program at Union College is devised, to offer the wid- est possible range for outside in- terests. All that would be needed to keep a dramatic activity moving would be a small nucleus of vitally interested people and large number of interested people. If there is even small percentage of the stu- dent body interested in dramatics, they can carry on a successful ac- tivity. It is useless for the com- mittee to be searching for triple figures. We feel that there is a great deal more to the Mountebanks situation than meets the eye. It is our con- sidered judgment that the commit- tee and the college community have too long dealt with the superficiali- ties of the problem and should give deep consideration to the organiza- tion of a successful Mountebanks. Yours truly, DONALD E. SCIIW ARTZ, EUGENE UNDERWOOD, JR. Commends Bryan Lecture As Fine Entertainment Dear E<litor: Wednesday evening, the Union College campus enjoyed one of the rare events of the year, when Mr. Julien Bryan, speaking not oply as a seasoned lecturer, but as a man deeply concerned with putting across an idea, spoke to· a packed Old C-hapel audience of over 220 people on a topic entitled \Tito's Yugoslavia.\ The overwheim,ing consensus of opinion, when after two and one half hours the audience let Mr. Bryan go, was WE NEED MORE OF THIS AT UNION. How right this comment was. If the adminis- tration loolts a little bit more Close- ly they will see that when a good speaker comes to the campus, the noon chapel program needs no credit points, and when a good evening's entertainment is offered, n1.1 inducement is needed. Over two-thirds of those attending Mr; Bryan's Wednesday evening lecture wet·e students. Whoever was in charge of bring- ing tl~e speaker to Union is to be congratulated, and whoever -holds the responsibility of planning for future speakers can look ae an ex- ample at the tremendous turnout on Wednesday evening. It is won- derful enjoyment to hear some- thing wovthwhile, timely, interest- ing and well presented. Again, let:s have more of Mr. Bryan and speakers like him. Respectfully; LARRY LEVINE FRIDAY, MARCH 28, 1'952 I THE VE'RY IDEA I By Ja.y N. Colm lt's that time of year again! Spring -is in the ail', the under- classmen are alJJeady tooking for- ward to summer vacation, and the seniors are waiting for the mail- man. It's .surprising sometimes- to see how many men who have dawdled through four years -of -··college life, displaying a deep-s e a t ed tred for associated w -i t the word plan o n further graduate w or k. it's gotten to the point where !In educa- tion has become an end In itself, peo- pie it iooks Ofighty siily. Maybe the impetus for graduate schools and masters ·degrees com.es from the parents. It certainly must pome ft•om someplace other than the student, for a g.Jance around at the seniors waiting for the mail and acceptances these days re- veals that many of them are the men who seemed to look .on col· lege as a necessary waste of fbur years. Is it possible that we are populating our country with a gen- eration of reluctantly educated men? Good gosh, parents, don't send everybody to college! Thei·e's still plenty of opportunities for the llheducated men and, as psychlo- gists are prone to 'Say \College educations are ruining some ,damn ·good floor sweepers.\ 1(. ¥ 1(. It's still of interest .to consider the record Union ha.s in placing its graduates in professional schools. It.'s probably a record unequalled in most colleges and certainly .an added incentive for prospective students. In talking to pre-meds from a lot of othe1· colleges; I've found that the med !SChools many of the Union men get into are often considered \unapproachable\. A good share of the senior pre-meds have already been accepted at schools, and even a half qozen junio;rs have . managed to )lreak down the ,baus against non-grad- ua;tes. And where have they been accepted? At only the -best-Yal'e, Rochester, Albany, Covnell, Syra- GUse; Bellevue, L.I.tr., Boston and the U. of Chicago, With the pre-laws it's about the same story. Law schools are fast grabbing up a good many· of the Union men, and most of the better students .already have their cj10ices of a number of top schools. And Hank Swanker's Placement Bureau has been a bee-hive of activity in recent weeks as industrial rep- resentatives from all over the country have swarmed to the campus to scan the seniors. There are tangible values in going to Union, too, but far too many men realize. it too late, -or, in their ego- tistical daydream, fail-to realize it at all. 1(. ¥ 1(. Th.e admissions office has been receiving some letters which would indicate that the plight of finding students to fill A:merican colleges iS very s.erious indeed, And many of these colleges evidently recog- ' nize· Unio;n's superiority. Requests have come from schools of our own class seeking the names of men -who have been refused. from Union on scholastic grounds, and .perhaps even the names of stu- dents who ha.ve, :flunked out. Even the admissions .office ad- mits that things are pretty tough, but they have 'promised not to lower the college's' standards in their admission policy. They'll take just 'as many qualified ,boys as they- can get, up to about 400, b~t the optimistic estimate right now is a freshman class next year .of about 325, And things will have to get a helluva. lot worse before we accept the boy whose mothel' wrote iii saying she was trying to find a college for her son, an olymp~c skating star. \It will have to be arranged so that he can miss classes from December to March,\ (Continued on Page 4) .LANGE & RAPP P~ARMACY \The College Sfude11fs Drug Store\ CHEMICALS -DRUGS Cor. Nott T-errace and State Street SAVE 15'% - ON FOOD COSlS - SAVE 15% NOTT RESTAURANT AND BAR For Quick Take-out Order$ Call Sch.-6 ... 9766 Raw, Steamed Clams \Meet and Eat at EDDIE'Sn 547 Nott St., opposite Green Gate Schenectady, N. Y. MEAL TICKETS-$5.75 for $5.00 r--;:::::-~;~::-~n·;--l 1 :-;e:7n~-u:::.~~:;~ American Foods 1 I For years I I I LUM FUNG, ll See your agent on Campus I Restaurant 1 UNITED : I BEST LI<;>UORS I : CLEANERS : AND COCKTAILS I : TAILORS : I Phone 4•5(>76 114 State St. near Ferry 1 - B_r_o_a~:: __ Pho_n_e_6-9595 1- I ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;, .. ,. --.-- - , .... ,. - ... __ , James Restaurant • GOOD FOOD at prices you can afford. Booth and Fountain Service 426 State Street L. G. BALFOUR 00. Fraternity Jewelers BADGES -.RINGS- FAVORS. JEWELRY LEATHER GIJITS STATIONERY • PROGRAMS OLUB PINS • KEYS ~ALS - TROPHiES Write or call CARL SORENSEN so Murray Ave. Wafurford, 'N:Y •.. P:HONE TROY-ADAMS 'S-2623 FERRo•s RESTAURANT Mr. and Mrs. George Ferro, Proprietor.s 1115 Baror&tt St. P.RIVATE ROOM FOR PARTIES Spec:lalizing in UaUan-American Food PHONE 6-9554 With its vtarJ pus slo~ w.i:p.teti ~ .pody SE many o their af the Alti long fc tered f1 lf yql that ill t~e pa1 could a~azi~ ever fo Tb,e ' ting tl worryii they ca the fas sea~ on are ag: :mater!! crow de soon t field h' the co~ to enjo All t! ever, I saying fair se is one co ache the qt Most o numbe these bear whole and te stance: necess Fro11 the ad comp:r sent fl guys. break They: to be or a I I we are pr ruling I wot them drawl son. You to se« taini:il practi are r fairs becau corru \big 1 the I~ ThosE est a1 fair sidati I: tior mo' ath F Ari ses: at Ac

3 FRIDAY. :MARCH 28. 1952 Sn:qde Remarks Lacrossers Slate Scrimmage Jaunt Selectors .Go Track Squad Prepares Out on. Ltmb F. or: 0. p. ·en. I··ng C. •O· nt. est. The staff's three topnotch r- After three weeks of practice the track squad, under the tutelage of Bill Ketz, is rounding into shape and should be ready for the opening meet of the season, April 19, swamies came up with the follow-· ing predictions for the coming sea- With the coming of Spring. and By Paul Gllbe11l son: its warm weather, we see the cam- Coach Frank O'Brien has made plans to take the candidates . '\CASEY\ BARG- ~~ Bill Snyder ----J pUS slowly ~wakening frt>Il.l its long for t~e lacrosse team on a practice trip .during the coming Royal Pretender: against the Vermont Tigers. Kottman Hurt ;~~~ers!~':n~b~~· b;'~~~;:~~:i~d::~ · vacatro?l· About twenty men will go on the road to meet A~~~C: ~~~~= 1 many of its members are spending· ~delphi, Pennsylvania, Swathmore, and Princeton in prepara- *New York 1 New York t):leir afternoons within and· around bon for the season's opener. Cleveland 2 . Brooklyn: The squad has been plagued with the A]umni .gymnasium stretching Tough Schedule Boston 3 St. Louis injuries during the past few weeks. long forgotten muscles and blis- The . team, which is still being Detroit 4 Boston Number one high jumper Dick tered feet. kept m the gym due to- 'bad Rudolph, and Dick Strickland to Chicago 5 Philadelphia Kottman broke his thumb while · ·bolster the defense. a t' · th h dl d 't l:f yqu ;ha,ve entered the doors of weather and wet grounds, will be ·st. Louis 6 Cincinnati pr c lCmg on e · ur es an 1 th t · · ti t d · 1 d b Because o:l! the lack of reserves · 1 · C . is doubtful whether he'll see action th: p~~t=~tv:r ~~~~ u~:ek;n~~ t~is s~as~e;,enO~~;u~~Anfac~e~e[:U!~ on the squad, Coach O'Brien is .~~!~~~it~: ~ h~~~~~ in the leap until after mid season. could witness one of the most. j?b in figuring out his starti~g still hopefuJ: that many of the *The Yankees are a never fail- However, since Kottman ran the a!llazi'n_g .conglamorations of sports, lmeup from among the veterans athletes on campus with any pre- ing sentimental choice. The Am-. half mile in high school, Ketz may f d d . f vious exp· er-ience., or those inter- fi d a Ja fo h·m · th t t ever onn . un er one roo • and freshmen a-r:d expects several erican League rookie-of-the-year n · P ce r 1 m a even · ested with no experience, wilT try Tb,e coacl;les, of course, are get-, very tough games on a scheduie out for the squad •before the season. should be Bob Cerv, with Frank The middle distances are the big ting their customary g¥ay hairs which . includes Dartmouth, Cor- 'commences_ Hiller as NL Junior of the year. problems of the squad. Except for worrying apout whether or not nell, Hobart, and RPI. All freshmen interested in the \GRANT·LAND'' GILBERT- John Trotter in the quarter, in they can .get their squads ready for Despite the uncertainty of the position as .managers should con-, Keeper of the Crystal Ball: addition to his stint in the 220, the fast coming :Spring trips or the starting lineup and the loss of tact Obie in the G'ym as soon as Ameri(!:,tn National the rest of the places are open. sea~ on openers. The usual blues. many men through last year's possible. League League Johnny Larkin looks in fine shape ~----------~----------------- Klingberg took the small college championships last year at Bing- hamton with a leap of over 12 Jieet. In other field events, new weight men Tom Davenpor.t and Dick M:uzdakis, along with veterans Ed O'Mealley and Bill Morris should repl'esent us ably. :Bob Murray should have a very much improved season over last year as he'll probably concentrate in tbe hurdles this year. Last year Murray was the utility man on the team and performed all over the field. are again· being heard about poor graduation, Coach O'Brien feels Cleveland 1 Brooklyn .and he w·ith Stig ·Gustaff11on look material,. inexperien.ced .players, and that we are better off than last New York 2 New York like the 1-2 men in the half. crowded facilities. The latter may year, but still far from being a·.· Baseball Managers . Boston 3 St. Louis Dick Dolan looks to the finest' · soon be rectified by the coming threat to the bigger squads on the·· Coach Art Lawrence would Detroit 4 Philadelphia of his great seasons this ·year and field house. ].:fy only hope is that nine game schedule. like any Inen who 1111·e interested Chicago 5 Boston it is hoped that he may break the GUERRA'S PHARMACY the coaches are still young enough Goalie Replacement in becoming managers of the Philadelphia 6 Cincinnati· two distance records. Gari Clough, to enjoy it. Probably the one big factor: baseball tea;m to .report to him St. Louis 7 Chicago although now hampered by a bad All things being considered,. how- pointing toward a successful sea- 0'1' to GeCJr ge Reddington, Washington 8 Pittsburgh heel, has been right behind Dolan ever, I would ·go out on a limb by son is find~ng a capable replace- present malll!\ger, any afternoon The rookies-of-the-year will de- in the practices. Frosh EUiot saying that it looks like a pretty ment for Bill Grev!l, last year's dlU'ing practice. Lawrence would finitely be Lee Fridley, of Cleve- Schester is expected to see some fair season for all sports. There goalie. Bob Godburn seems to have prefer it if the positions weoo land, in the American League and action in the distance lineup too. i:> one main factor upon which the the inside track to ta:ke over the fille'd by intereste.d members of John Padres, of Mineville. coaches are waiting and that is· net-minding duties, with strong the freshman. class. LEE LLEWELYN- Frank Kiwus in the sprints, the question of reserve strength.- 'competition coming from Jordy, The ·often heard, seldom seen along with Bill Burns and perhaps ~ost of ,the squads have sufficient Greenfield, the soc<!'er goalie. \bleacherite\; ·Art Biles, make a top 1-2-3 com- numbers of veterans returning, but O'Brien also .pointed out that most Tennis Candidates American National bination, Kiwus will run in the 100 these men cannot be expected to ·of his so-called seasoned players· There will be an important League League and 2ZO in which events he per- bear the entire burden of the on the squad will be playing onl:y' meeting of all students inte1·- New York 1 New York: formed more than creditably last whole season. The natural· wear their second year of lacrosse. ested in trying out for the col- . ·Cleveland 2 Philadelphia· year. and tear, plus unforeseen circum~ Among those missing from· last ·lege golf .team, on Wednesday, · Chicago 3 Brooklyn stances in the fielding of a team, year's team ane Bill Gveve, and Aprll 9, in: the Trophy ro()m of : l;!oston 4 St. Louis Lack of suitable weather has necessitates the. use of reserves. Jack Mirschel, who bas dropped the Gym ... Freslunen are espe- Detroit 5 Boston postponed use ·of the pits for the Bad Weather • Fountain Prescriptions Sundries • 6()0 Union St., Cor. Barrett St. From the way .things look now; out -of school because of scholastic cially urged to attend. There are · Philadelphia 6 Cincinnati pole vault, but Ketz is confld'ent the added strength is going to be difficulties. Midfielders Norm CaiT excellent -oppot•tumties for ad- . Washington 7 Pittsburgh that Len Klingberg will regain his compnsed of men from .the pre~ and Joe Gardeski, and attackman _:_v.:.:a.:.:n~c.:.:em=e:::n:::.t.:.o::.:n:_··.:.t:h_:e.:.t::::ea=m:· ____ ~S::::t.~L:o:_:u~is:_ __ .:.8~---__:C~h~ic~a~g~o~f:::o~rm~~i~n-· ..':t~im~e_:fo~r~t~h~e~fi~r:::s:t~m~e~e:t·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=~ sent freshman class. These are the Steve DiMarco have departed - five Ways to Begin Careers with General Electric guys who are going to make or through graduation. break some of this Spring's teams. Seven Lettel'lnen They are, in man:y instances, going Leading the Union attack once to be the differenlle between a. win again will be Herb Hufnagel, a or a loss. constant scoring threat and last I would imagine that the coaches season's high scorer. The other are pretty happy that the freshman returning lettermen are Ben ruling went into effect la~t y'ear. Thelin, another of last year's scor- I would also add that a few of ers, Bill Snyder, Bill Hall, Bob them are worried about the with- Haas, lasC year's captain, Gene. drawing of this rl).le after the sea- Erickson, and jack Stroud. son. · Obie will be counting heavily on Yours truly was very pleased the freshman candidates to give the to see Union take a stand in re- team added balance and depth of taining the usual Spring football reserve power. Of the first year practice. It would see1U that we prosjects the more outstanding are reaching a sorry state of af- ones are Dick Havill, Joe Wilkin- fairs if we had to hurt ourselves son, and Larry Bretschneider at because of the sneak dealings and midfield, and Jess Dickson, Bill corruption brought about by the. \big time footbaJl,\ as practiced by, the larger colleges and universities. Those schoolS speaking the loud- est and crying the longest over un- fair tactics in practices and sub- sidation should look in their oWn SEX Is a word ·to attract atten- tion • . . BUT a concert in modern Jazz will hold your attention. Fe;:~turing 10 great Jazz Artists blowing fhe greatest · sessi·on ever to hit Schenec-i\ady at the Civic Playhouse. Set Tickets at the Student .. Acitivty Offic::.· • REMEMBER THE DATE Wednesday. April 2 - baclryards first, then maybe we could start a sensible curing of the problem. Therefore, hats off to the Athletic Department and the Administration for sticking to their guns. Gano Kelly plus 4 IN A JEEP AT M. B. Graubarts & Sons , We Repair ••• Your WATCHES Your jEWELRY, Ye>ur SILVER Utmost care is taken by skilled workers to give you every reason to be pleased. -Watches and clocks cleaned and repaired ---New watch cases and bands -New watch crystals inserted _--Jewelry and silver replated and repaired 166 JAY· STREET •· Opposite Mohican 1. TEST ENGINEERS PROGRAM-gives· engineering graduates O])portunities for careers not only in engineering but in all phases of the company's business. Rotating assignments plus opportunities for further classroom study. 3. MANUFACTURING TRAINING PROGRAM-for developing man· ufacturing leaders. Opel! to graduates with a technical educa- tion or a gen~ral educatio}l With technical emphasis. 5. ~HYSICS PROGRAM-the gateway by which physics majors begm G-E careers. Program graduates have gone info such fields a.S research, development, manufacturing, design, marketing. ~~~-~--­ l ..... . . . . ! 2. BUSINESS TRAINING COURSE-ope11 to business administra· tion, Iiheral arts and other graduates •• Jor careers in accounting, finaRce, administration. 4 •• CHEMICAL AND METALLURGICAL PROGRAM-otrers rotating asstgnnients aad studies for chen.iists and for ehemica.l and metallurgical engineers. · If you are interested in entering one of these five basic General Electric progl'ams after graduation, talk with your placement officer and the G·E representative when he visits your campus. Mean- while, send for further infol'mation: • On Test, Chemical and Metallurgical, and Physic$ Programs, write to Technical Per5onnel Services ·~Dept., Schenectady, N.Y. e On Business Training, write to Business Training Course, Schenectady, N. Y. • On Manufacturing, write to Manufacturing Personnel Development Ser~lces Department.; Schenectady, N.Y. GENERAL. ELECTRIC

4 ~RIDAY, MARCH 28, 1952 t ID·OL Articles ·very Idea Johnn '' M. arch R-ecall's Placement , ;:······· ...................................... , .. ~· P h t:Jc G . As we reach mid-semester The' i. c am p--u § 1. €lontl'ibutions :for the May · (Continued from Pag;e 2) · Placement Bureau feels that you sy c 0 u rse ene s z.s ::;ts beb;n~:~=~~~~w~~s.so~:erco~: ~.: c u. II i n_ d § ~.s: .. By llit\Vld Snrlth and Martin Portnoy the representatives have been well ~ . satisfied with Union and with the· ........... .. ........ , issue of The IDOL will be ac- she wrote, \so that he can prac- cepted starting Monday, April tice his skating.\ 7, according to editor Walter :r. :r. Ito Tower. Po~try and non-fiction A heated Student Council session a1•ticles are especially desired, · 'Tuesday ·night may resu~t in a wei- John Lewis :l\IaJ1Ch, Ol' Johnny March as he is better Union mel). with whom they have known, is Professor Emeritus of Psychology. He came to talked. However, check ttl see whether any of the following re- Union in 1899, and departed in 1943. We found him alone, marks might fit your interviews: at a table in the back of Whelan's drug store near the \He was obviously not interested, but just shopping.\ railroad station, reading the \Schenectady Gazette\ and \Of the men 1 have met in dif- flicking cigarette ashes into an empty ice cream dish. ' ferent colleges, about one-tenth had First Mee.tiiLg ~--------------- read our U.terature thoroughly. Although we'd never met him When they have read it, our con- before, we immediately- recognized versation ca:n go on to other mat- him as the stately .gentleman with ters.\ the thin white beard and rimless \Some men collapse in the chair glasses. We introduced ourselves and sit passively, expecting the in- uneasily; each of us searched for terviewer to cax:ry on.\ an opening question, but those em- \Every senior now has the job barrassing seconds were interrupted of selling P.·imsel.f.\ by Johnny March w.ho demanded \When opportunity for questions smilingly, \Now who is running was given, he had nothing to ask.\ this interview, you or I?\ \He put on a gdod act, but And then, to the waitress who showed no sincerity.\ came over to take our order and Students should think .over these was refused, he winlted under- points before malting some calls standingly, saying, \These are re- during spring 1·ecess. You must ·be porters and reporting doesn't pay.\ interested in a company, or you He had come to Union in 1899 would not be there to meet the to teaC'h modern languages. In 1917 personnel men on their home he became Union first .psychology ground. Either there, or here on department, offeJ•ing Juniors· and the campus, respond to them with Seniors both as elementary course a reasonable cordiality. In closing and a more advanced course of Dr. John L. March this brief sermon, remember that \my own stuff\ 'Evolutionary Psy- our interviewers have .invariably chology', which recognized the im- told us how much they have appre- portance \for aU to know some- talked right out.\ \However he ciated the hospitality at Union, thing about human beings through they had something to say they and without exception have seen the study of the evolution of the added, \I was strict about getting one or more men whom they hope human mind.\ Apparently this was things straight. No humbug.\ to meet later in the employ of really his \own stuff\ for although We mentioned Prof. Swanker's their firms. he recognized the Wl>rk o.f such frequent observations about Dr. -~-o--- men of his day as Pavlov and March's brilliant memory. Room Rent Du~ Watson. he was not too enthusiastic \Yes I never needed notes-! b t th d b bl t t Room rent of $50.00 for the sec- a ou l'ill an pro a Y no oo just spoke straight out.\ · fl d b th · 1 ond half of the current semester m uence Y eJr wort. And so t.he ·~·ntervi'ew ended. We Freud ~n:sldered will be payable at the Business Of- \How do you feel about Dr •. reali~ed when we left that we had fice between the dates April 7-11 Freud?\ \A brilliant person but I met an important kind of person- inclusive during the hours of 8:30 hardly followed him at all. My not because he is an \institution\ a.m. and 12 noon and 1 :00 p.m. primary concern was with the nor- or a \syrnbol\-but because we felt and 3:30 p.m. mal, rather than the abnormal.\ we had seen in him a man with a A late payment fee of $5.00 will we then asked him who he con- mature active intelligence. be due after April 11. sidered the g-reatest man in Psy- chology, He looked up and thought for a few seconds. \That's a legitimate question and I should have an answer, but I really don't think about .things that way. It's more a question of what each man himself does and not how he stands nex:t to another man.\ March vs. Freud Somehow ·we were discussing Freud again. Dr. March felt that Freud was too ready- to assume things that fit into his scheme, such as the inheritance of acquired characteristics, archaic memories and other biological concepts which demand further empirical verifica- tion. It's better, Dr. M:arch felt, to admit problems are unsolve<l than to t·esolve them in this way. \Freud is carried to an extreme,\ he added, giving for an example m<'n like Dr. 'Brill who, in a lec- ture several years ago at Union, warned against spanking the child b~cause he'd hn.tP his parents. \This man is out of touch with the facts,\ and Dr. :I.Iilrch pointed out, \How many people spank their children and how many hate their parents?'' Psychology Im~rtant He re-emphasized the important- ance of psychology and what must come to be its indisputable place in th£> future of the world. Also, he was extremely happy that the prl'sPnt C'O!IPge administration is rPally RUpportil'lg it. Th!> conversation dl'ifted toward his tPachmg- days at Union. \l always let the boys talk. When From the \Polywisely Speaking\ as well as fictional items. Any- come eleventh hour ·decision on a column of the Rensselaer Poly-·· one may contribute, and stories : pr.oblem which has plagued .the technic: ... \It is evident that we should be deposited in The • ·carnp1,1s since Fall. It hardly seeJ.P,s will soon be witnessing the end of. IDOL office in Washburn Hall. conceivable that the IFC will main- Troy's sickening winter, and we · tain its approval of a deferred l!Jok ahead to the early rebirth of · trouble with people any more.\ .... l'Ushing period of only eig-ht weeks Troy's sickening s.pring.\ . . . Oh Well some people are just a bit after the overwhelming vote ~n to be in Troy now that April is. hazy in their thinking. favor of second term rushing. If here. · Ito Ito .:f. the Stud·ent Council-approved sys- . tern, and the one that seems to Reprinted in its· entirety from the \Williams Record,\ datelined· \Middlebury Vt., Mar. 4:\ ... \The Williams hockey team suffered its 11th defeat of the season today as tbe powerful Panthers .of Middle- ·bUry\ . . . That ·kind of stuff was bound to catch up with them any- way. Culled tram the \Syracuse Daily Orange: ... \With only one bas- Itetball contest !'emainirrg to be played, Eig Ed Miller looks to be a sure fi.re bet to wind up the cam- paign as BiU Orange's top point producer. Large Edwin has poured 268 points through the hoop in 18 contests. The No.'s 2 and 3 men, Eucky Roche and Frar.k Reddout, have tallied 241 and 40 markers re- spectively. it would take a great night on the part of either Red- dout or Roche, plus af\· exceptional- ly pom· one by Miller, for the big man to end up as anything but top man.\ ... :wo points for Reddout would at Iea.st be a mol'al victory. 1(. 1(. :r. The following virulence is pro- vided by the Virginia \Cavaliel' Daily\ in a letter to the editor: ... \I think this busir.ess of cutting out 'Hell Week' and substituting 'Help Week' is a pure lot of crap. Why stop something that is sol't of inherent in fraternities, if you know what I mean? That's the Headline of the week from the . satisfy most of the students, faculty \Niagara Index:\ \Elizabeth Bent- and adminisration, is accepted and ley Next Council Lecture Speaker: t]le necessary mechanics worked Star Witr.ess Will Talk On US· . out as soon as possible, next year's Commies.\ freshman class should provide an Ito 1(. :.t- excellent opportunity to study the The following was reorted in the University of Rochester \Campus:\ ... \The Yellowjackets have ·piled merits of deferred rushing. I ex- pect it's value will be proved. up and excellent 13-2 recorci and Lette 1 • Wins Smokes are heavily favored to notch num- ber twelve.\ . . . That should re- Avrom J. Gold 'has been an- move some of tile lustre.· · nounced as winner of the Letter to 'f. li' :f. the Editor Contest .for the month of Marcli• He !'eceives a ·carton of The \We!Iesley CoHege News\ Chesterfil;!ld cigarettes. Each month reports .that · · · \Science has un\ .the Concordiensis, hi co'oper:ation covered many things in our times~· with Harvey Kronick, Chesterfield among them the Wellesley girl.\ campus representative, awards a · • · Just so long as. it's in the best prize for .the best Letter to the interests of scienCe. · Editor. P. ·LEE LLEWELYN VICTORIA Restaurant Specializing in Italian Foods Jay Street (Cor. Union) LUIGI'S RESTAURANT Specializirtg in ltalian-Americ:an Food • 1126 BARRETT ST. Schen. 6-9744 Enfoy our Sizzling Steaks and Chops e Watches. Jewelry Clocks Repaired e Engraving, too! CHESTERFIELDS are much MILDER and give you the ADDED PROTECT/Of' of NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE Jewlery c~o. *FROM THE REPORT OF A WELL-KNOWN RESEARCH ORGANIZATIC?N ... Vol.' D cl 0 Pr· chair Foun grou: . 1 .·The seven1 co !leg' purpl); son s indus1 finan< cqlleg, comm co !leg selv-es and havin; trol. The for s evidel indivi to se' priva1 prefel in thE by th cept tions its co Wit Em pi :point purpc lie re in c head1 Faun licity acqu1 need: sity leges. any indm ' Af1 madE the f State repOJ to tr. Davi Davl moni prog .. Th tribu distr 60% bed ber 40% on tl first roup writ Af draf sent penc stall BE cers Pref vice Blyl Pre1 trea are Ski< Har sell iltOl z( 01 a edi1 Re< pul Nm z is 1 nit ma tor boc Th stt thE ~ as 1:>e1 ha1 sc1

