\ Spring Sports Schedule Page 3 Vol. 79, No. 20 ltumnub· atuhtltt trnsts Founded tit Vnion College in 1877 SCHENECTADY. N.Y., APRIL 11, 1952 Senior Meeting Tuesday Old Chapel PRICE HJ CENTS Davidson Named Chairman of New College Alliance Class Presidents Deferred Rushing Hinges on Action Of Council, IF C By 'Stewart M. Robinson President Carter Davidson of Union College was elected chairman of the board of the newly formed Empire State Foundation of Independent Liberal . Arts Colleges, at that group's .inaugural meeting, April 1, l952. · Need· Industry's Suppo1't <V--------~~---- . The organization is composed of The per·plexing question of deferred rushing received a thorough airing this week as the IFC and the Student Co1,1ncil attempted to reach a mutually acceptable decision. At press time the fate of the proposed 16-week deferred period was still up in the air. ---------------~ As a result of agitation in the seventeen independent liberal arts .E·. ·xpect· M· . an.y p· h 1 ·z. 08 - Aga 1 ··n colleges in New York State. ''The purppse of this federation,.\ David-, ~~~u~~·to .. ~~ytfo:~:;ea~~o~r~~:~· Parents Here Host to Mock financial support for independent CQlleg,es.\ The support of private' For w· ee· kend ·, ', N y A QSelnb·ly· commerce is needed by the small 11!:) colleges in order to keep them- selv-es in a healthy financial state - Replies indicate that the For the third successive and to prevent themselves from .second annual Parents Week- Photo bv. Boris year the Union College debat- t hra0v1.ing to rely on government con- end will be even more success-' Shown above are the newly elected class presidents. Left to ing ' society' ' the Philoma- f 1 th I t , . l .right are Joseph T. Wilkinson, William J. Snyder, and Jesse H. theans,, has f>een named as The increasing costs of operation U an a:s year S 1naugura , Dickson. NJ. a,re members of Phi Delta Theta fraternity. for small colleges has made it according to members of the. host for the New York State evident that for them to survive • th D 1 h' · · Student Intercollegiate Con- individually, they mus.t cooperate. spollSOl'lng group, e e p lC' w ··zk .. D. k S . t · c son ference on Public Affairs, to to secure the necessary aid from Ocle y, I ..,nson ·l be held in the New York private sources. The foundation · Jay N. Cohn, chairman of the II II · · , · · · . ' r:e:~~sf~~~ ~i: ;~d-:~!~:~~~~~g;~~: :::~tt::ir::!!~rr~~:m a~~~:!~~.· Snyde·r Head Classes ~\~~~~~~~~t17-~~mbers in by the donors, but it will also-ac- .. promise that upwards of 300 peo- · · • . · . cept gifts which contain stipula- ple will be here for the weekend. . Conference Attendance Heavy tions that will not interfere with A more cat·efully planned agenda William J. Snyder was elected President of next yea,.r's The conference will be attended its constitution. by representatives from over 30 Within the next rew weeks the this year will allow the visitors senior class, and Joseph T. Wilkinson and Jesse H. Dickson New York state colleges and uni- Empire State Foundation will ap- to see every phase of campus life. were chosen to head tP.e junior and sophomore classes, re- · varsities. It is designed as a point an executive director whose Dffiphlcs .in Conti-'01 spectively, at class officer elections held Wednesday in Bailey \model\ legislature, in which the purpose it will be to design a pub- A large portion of the rooms at. Hall. students hold a mock legislative lie relations and publicity campaign the Van Curler Hotel have been. 297 Cast Ballots session, aproaching as nearly as in conjunction with the college reserved to accommodate the to Willtinson's 32, will be vice- possible the actual workings of the heads and in keeping with the parents of Union students, who 297 students, about one-third of president. James F, Hoffman re- state legislators. Foundation's purpose. The pub- will begin arriving Friday evening the campus population, yoted. The ceived a majority \of the votes in· Union College has the distinction Jiclty program will be started to ·in advance· of the Saturday regis- fr.eshmen made the best turnout, outdistancing two competitors for of being the only school to serve acquaint business men with the tration. All plans for registration with 121 <:asting ·ballots. The the position of class secretary. for three successive years as host needs of the colleges and the neces- and scheduling are in the· hands sophomores were close behind with Treasurer will be Frank P. Pan- at the annual conference. Lawrence sity of their support to these col- ·of the Delphics. 112 voters, while only 64 junior ariello, who polled 79 votes, the w. Levine, Philo president, was leges. This progr~m will precede class members went to the polls. most of any candidate facing oppo- elected chairman of t:he arrange- any solicitations for grants from Cooperation on the part of the The results In the presidential sition. ments for the present IIJ,ock senate industry. administration has produced a race pl'OVed to be a clean sweep A run-off will be necesfi.ary' to at last yeat\'s proceedings. The Will Malte Direct Appeals varied agenda, which should make for Phi Delta Theta fraternity, all determine the sophomore vice- conference series, begun in 1932 at After this, direct appeals will be . for a. really enjoyable sojourn. , of the new presidents being. mem- president. James D. Brown and Syracuse University under the made to as many as possible of Saturday afternoon will find three bers of that group. Snyder was Richard J. Rubin each drew 29 sponsorship of the collegiate debate the 500,000 businesses in New Yorlt athletic contests scheduled. The the only incumbent, since he is votes. Next year's secretary of the coaches of New York, has an un- - State. The executive director will varsity tennis team meets Stevens president of this year's Junior class of 1955 will be Ralph G. broken history up to the present, report on the progress of this \lrive Tech; Hofstra will provide the la- class. Schilling, who was unopposed in. except during the last wa.·. to the board of directors of which crosse opposition, while the Garnet Richard V. Rapacz will be senior the elections. Thomas J. Miles was The aim of this year's confer- Davidson is the chairman. ;Dr. nine. will tangle with Syracuse. vice-president. He was runner-up chosen as Treasurer by a consider- ence, as in other years, is to give Davidson estimates \that several The starting times of these events to Snyder, and under the new able margin over Jerome B. Frank the. student delegates as complete months will be ;needed before this are staggered to allow the visitors election system automatically at- and Ronald H. Levine. a kno,vledge as possible of the program will be ready to start.\ to sit in. on all of them. tains the VP post. Elwyn V. :Efarp ---0--- techniques of the state's legislative Q The money which will be con- Following a coffee hour and in- was elected senior treasurer, and procedure. ['hey elect their own tributed to the foundation will be formal discussion period for the Richard s. Nemeth attained the Arony Moves speaker; they form committees; distributed in the following way: guests Saturday evening in Hale post of secretary. Both were unop- they process bills in committee 60% of the tindesignated funds will House, the Glee Club will present posed, although there was one hearings; they formulate bills in be divided equally among the mem- a concert in Memorial ·Chapel. write-in vote for Frank Bailey fo1: TO· NeW Home joint committee hearings; and fin- her colleges, while the remai;ning Finale for the weekend will be treasurer. ally the proposed measures are de- 40% will be allotted to the colleges Su!,lday morning with Dr. C. P. Close Junior Contest bated and acted upon. on the basis of enrollment. For the Schedd of the Yale Divinity School The race for junior class presi- Dr. Alexander J. Arony has Three Problt>ms AirP\l first year ·Of its operation, the ·giving the· address at services In dent~ was closely contested. Rich- moved off campus, necessitating a foundation's expenses will be under-. Memorial Chapel. ard W. Henry, drawing 28 votes changt> in procedure for after-hours This year there will be thnc written by its member colleges. ------~~--------'--------·--------- treatment of students. His office main conunittecs, representing .After the constitution has been. hours reinain the same, 9-10:30 in three problems: l1J ·What, if any- drafted, invitations to join will be T. ex 8 . . · e·nek.e Orch. estra· . Ha.s the morning. and 2-4:00 in the af- thing. should be done about sent out to other accred,ited inde\ ternoon. gambling ·in New York State?; pe1;1dent liberal arts colleges in the Students who incur !llnesses or \Z) ·What, if anything, should be state co· ·z f l y v ·z• t injuries are now directed to make done about the Judiciary of New . Be~!des Davidson, the other offi• . · or U oung· , oca ts S phone calis and send messages di- York State?; and < 3 l, What, if any- cers of the fundatiGn include:. - rectly to the infhmary if these thing, should be done about cer- President -Alan Brown of Hobart, By Martin Hauser situationa arise when Dr, A.rony is tification of elementary school vice chairman.; President Kathryn This year's Junior Prom; \Bali Ha'i,'' will feature the not on campus. A. nurse is on duty teachers? Blyley Of Keuka, secretary; and music of Tex Beneke and his 16 piece orchestra. Fea.tured in Silliman Hall infirmary between One of the highlights of the con- President Louis Long of Wells, on the vocals besides Beneke himself, will be Bill Raymond 9 a.m. and 5 p,m. She can contact . ference will be a banquet on Fri\ treasurer. The member colleges d J K h l)r. Arony in case of an emergency. day evening, .April 18 • at the Well- are Union, Hobart, Keuka, Wells; an oan avanaug • ' Medical and Surgical Emer- ington Hotel in Albany, when the Skidmore, Wagner, .Alfred, Bard; Beneke's Beginning Today Tex Beneke and his band geneies will be treated at any time stud·ent delegates will be addressed Hartwick, Houghto;n, Colgate, Rus- Gordon Lee \Tex\ Beneke got have ·been .accepted by the public of the day or night. A~ usual, both by the Honorable Charles M. sell Sl3.ge, Elmira, Barnard, Ham- his sta.rt with big time otchestras hot only as the old Miller band; on and off campus house calls will Hughes. ilton, and St. Lawrence· colleges. l:Jy playing with Bem Young at the but as a new aggregation, led by be made when necessary. Dr. Arony ---·o~. --~ ·Texas Centennial in 1936. It was a. man with a distinctive musicai reminds students that his office in 1938, however, that he got his style of his own. will not issue excuses for classes big break,. being recommended by. vocalists.· Featured cut unless the infirmary Is notified Gene Krupa to . Glenn Miller, who ·before the class is cut. Students ---0--- ' Independents Vote On Officers in OC Student Council, Eugene Under- wood submitted a proposal that would have given that organiza- tion authority to inaugurate the 16- week deferral plan. Forms Committee' of Six The Council finally agreed to form a conciliation committee of six, three each from both organi- zations. This committee met Mon- day night and after debating the classic issues of the problem, im- plemented a definite plan.. for final settlement of the enigma. The Inter-Fraternity Council at its Tuesday meeting decided to disallow the vote of two weeks ago and to substitute the results of a In an Wlofficial and incom- plete tabulation made by the _Concordiensis late last night, eight out of 15 houses contacted were found to favor tile full term deferment. new vote of the entire fraternity system at Union. 18 ballots were handed out at the last meeting to the fraternities and the results (Which are to be considered the IFC's final position on the matter according to prexy Robert Hochul!) will be handed over to the Stu- dent Council at its Tuesday meet- ing for perusal and possible final action. Not only ·-concerned with the fireworks of deferred ru:shing, the IFC defeated by a vote of 12-3, a motion to set up within the IFC, a council of presidents. Originally implemented by Bill Retz, this council · met successfuJly with President Carter Davidson last year- and met again with the prexy this past winter. With all 18 rep- resentatives voting, the vote again was 12-3 opposed, with 3 absten- tions. New IFC Constitution In an apparently busy session, the IFC adopted for the first time a constitution which, in addition . to generally constitutional ma- terial, contains stipulations for improvement of attendance and for punishment of violations of rushing and other rules as set up by ,the IFC. Fines will be assessed for non-attendance. ---- ·-- -- o~-~-- US Congress Honors Payne Congress has pr<Jclaimed 1952 the John Howard Payne Centen- nial year, and in accordance with the honoring of this Union alum- nus, Professor Harold W. Blodgett, chairman of the English Depart- . ment, gave a lecture OJ:! Payne be- fore the Memorial Chapel assem- bly, Tuesday noon. Zervas New Editor Of Frosh Record needed a sax man. Featured vocalists in the Beneke treated at home must present a From then on Tex Beneke stead- band are Bill Raymond anq Joan note from their family physician. President of the Independent. George J. Zervae was chosen as ily grew i!\ :;;tature; becoming the .Kavanaugh. Raymond, only 23, Co'l).ncil William T. Pappas an- Dr. Blodgett said, \What has made Payne memorable is not his expression of a national, but of an universal sentiment. On a single occasion he struck a chord that has vibrated in the human heart ever since.\ editor of next year's Freshman top vocalist and feature artist in got his start with Jerry Wa.ld sev- nounced that the Independent's Record at a recent meeting of the Miller's grel).t band. Subh voca:Js eral years ago. .After a year with Organization will hold a general Publications . Board. He succeeds as \Chatanooga Chao, Choo,\ ·W!!-ld and another year with Alex Senior M.eetin.g , meeting Wednesday noon, .April :J,6, Norman E. Scull. \Ida and his masterful sax on Bartha's Steel Pier band in At- · in Old Chapel. Officers for the Zervas, from Johnstown, N. Y., \Body and Soul\ sold millions of !antic City; Raymond. was hired by A \very important\ meeting of coming year will be elected and is a member of Sigma Chi frater- · .copies. Sam Donahue. When Donahue the Senior Class ba!! been plans for a forthcoming prom nlty. He is president of the fresh- Beneke, who had joined the gave up his band, BIIJ joined the .scheduled for Tuesda,y at llloon party wiU be discusSl;ld. President I · famous Casa l..orna orchestra of · man class, and served on the e·d - navy, 'was discharged in 1946. It Glen Gray, and it was there that:· in Old Chapel, President Jay Pappas urged all independents to torial board ·of hi!! high school year was then that he reorganized the . Cohn announced today, All attend what he termed an \import- book. Zervas is on the staff of old MllieJ• band, Gienil having given Beneke heard him and hired him. seniors are w-ged to !lttend. · ant meeting.\ ' The Garnet, is a member ·Of the· his life in the war. Mrs. 'Miller' ~ce~as been with Beneke. ever • The senior dance for com• Any ne\ltral may run for office student Council, and is enrolled in gave the band the permission they mencement 'weeltend along with · on the Independent Councll. He the pre-medical colirae. needed to use the old Miller ar- Joan Kavanaugh is the former other weekend activities will be must submit a petition for his Thomas J. Clifford ·was selected rang.ements and they were an im-· .till of \Four Jacks and a jill.\ discussed at the ~eetlng, and nomination bearing fifteen or more as associate editor. He is a mem- mediate success. In their first en-, Beheke~s band• is the first she has. Cohn ha.!l promised ·11- rep1ort !Jn · signatures of independents. These ber of Kappa Sigma fraternity, and gagement they broke every record worked with. She is a young, tal-· tile insw•ance plan fluid and · petitions must be delivered to the has had eftperience on secondary in the 26 year history of New ented vocalist and a cu:rvent hit · the collection of class dues. :Student Activities Office no later school publications. · York 1 s .Capitol theater. •·with Tex's band. · .._..,.._ ..... __________ ...J than 4:30 p.m. Tuesday, April 22. Payne came to Union in 1806, during the presidency of Eliphalet Nott. He was forced ·to leave school the next year, but he had already commenced to work on \Home .Sweet Home,\ which is his main claim to fame. While here he launched \The Pastime,\ con- sidered the forerunner of present day school publications. Payne spent a varied later life, but mainly was engaged as an actor, piaywright, or theatrical manager. The last years of his life were spent as a consul In Tunis.

2 FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 1952 . Letters to the Editor theater whirled ®nurnr To the Editor of the Concordiensis: GOD AND MAN AT UNION Dear Editor: Secularism and Realism ...,;· We noted with extreme· interest last week the Concordiensis article as concerning the state, or, more properly, the lack of a positive state of an active drama group on campus. However, the writers failed to point out the full e;x:tent o( the conditions currently existent, which preclude the existence of such a group. By Ricb.ru:d G. Heimann l\Iember Associated Col- legiate Pres• and· dl;;tri- butor of the Collegiate Dlge\t. Xationnl Atl\·er- tlslng Representath·e: :-:n- tlonal Adl'ertlslng Servit·p, In<'.. College Pul>l!'h\'r' Representa.tlve. 42u !>latH- son Al'e., X. Y. r. Puh- ll\hetl every Frltlny of tlw ePhool yen 1·. I~ditorlal Offil'e, Washburn llall, !!uion College. Pub- lilc\:ttion Offlee, The Cla- r.t•tte Press, 334 State St Elttt•l ed iu the ::l<'hener- ta.dy l'ost Office as Sec- lllld CJa-..t' ~fall ~latter, ~uL ... <·tiption 101• a copy: $:l year deli1·ered t\11)'- where itt tile l'nlt~d ~ti\ltt·:-1 SENIOR BOARD JOHN J. CASSIDY JR. '53 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Editor-ln·8hlef IRWIN S. BARG '53 . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .Sports Editor MONROE SlLVERl\'lAN '52 . . . . ............•.....• Feat-ure Editor ALFRED L. GOLDBERGER 'c;l ......................... >:ews Editor MARTIN B. GORDON '54 .................•...... Copy Editor HERBERT L. SPIRA '54 • .. .. ........................... <'o!JY Editor ALAN S. FORMAN '53 . . . . . . . . Photography Editor GEORGE J. WHUBEL '53 . . ............... Business Manager HORACE VAN VOAS'l' '62 ....................... Circulation :llanager J t: !'lOR llOARD M.AR'I'L'l HAUSER '65 .......................... Assistaat CoJ.>)' Editor ALFRED H. KINGON '53 .................... Assistant Feature Editor HERBERT L. HILLER '62 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Exchange Eldllor I:IO\VARD BRODY '52 .................... - ........... Exchange Bdllor ROBERT SILVEIC\!A~ '53 ................ Assistant Business ~1.anager CURTIS BATES '53 . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A.,;ststant l'lrL·ulation )! <tJ>agc·r REPORTERS Peter Adler, :.1arvin Boris, llt>rbert Guston, Hichard Heimann, Gary Katz Lewis Klein, Eliot Losllal{, :Hartin !'01 tuuy, Arthur Ho>'en !el~l. Stewart Robinson Walter Salm, Alfred Scott, Donald sunmons. J>.and Smith, Irwin Uer:tzog, Herbert 1\'IIli.Im~. l'aul llilhert, llunaht )lull!·, Frederic Murris, Walter '!'ower, Hog<>r· Fem~teJJt. Bl.:SINESS STAFF Joseph Allen, Robert Becl<, Lawrence Greenberg. CIRCULATION STAFF J. Lowell Davis, Joseph :\lartin, James I\itmauril'e HklnHcl Il orst, Uavid Urt::!gur,Y, (ier;anlu~ Jurnesoll, Hn~ha.rd LeWlS. ~ The Deferment Question Again A few months ago Tip Tower wrote an article about foreign stu- dents · for The mOL, deploring their failure to worship at the shrine of our American twin golden calves: get-up-and\go and indi- vidual initiative. He ·blamed this on the totalitarian European cul- ture from which they came, a gross over-genera·lization betraying his own lack of knowledge .. Now Union's William F. Buckley has risen to· the editorship of The IDOL, and has written a searing editorial blasting the Daily News' favorite target-socialism. . How- ever, Tip's reasoning has evideptly been hampered by fingering the beads of the free enterprise rosary too long, for his polemic is fi,Ill of holes. Despite his hoary plea about \the basic ideals on which it (the government} was ·built,\ he obvi- ously distrusts the generosity of capitalists, for he calls for strong go¥ernmental controls. As for our natural resources, such as T.V.A. has harnessed, he suggests using the taxpayers' money as investment capital to finance and subsidize such projects, and then turn them over to the corporations that could not hav~ built them without this aid. These corporatiOIJ:S . will then make their profits from the consumers who paid for the constructi'on of the utilities in the 'first place. Of all theatrical entertainment I witnessed over Spring vacation, the most pleasure was derived from two moving pictures: \Mur- der in the Cathe- dral\ and \The Young ana the Dari:med.\ Both of these fHms are foreign, the for- mer being pro- duced in England while the latter stands as .an ex- ample of the in- dustry in lY.l;exico. \Murder i~ the Cathedral,\ with a text by T. S. Eliot, proves to he a static motion picture, althou:;:h the event which it represents is a most exciting and interesting one. It is noted that Eliot's story of Thomas A. Becket is not rooted in fact, rather that the poet has used this incident in history to express his own position. in the secular world. To be sure, it can be con- sidered a dull picture, for although the photography is clear and in- teresting at first, the abysmal lack of movement, both .by the actors and the camera, prov:ides a very uneasy three hours. And agaiti, as in most English films, the Jig·hting is done in extremely ·bad fashion -alternating between short .jerky movement and obviously devised dramatic fade-outs. lief which are individual and non- binding to others. It is nQt neces- sary to agree with the author in order to enjoy the film, .but one finds the evenir.g's entertainment to be a tong stretch of mental gymnastics. My advice is to. see it, but get a .Jong rest first. \The Young a1;1d the Damned\ is · not a pretty picture. It deals pri- marily with a band of young boys in present day slum circumstances in Mexico City. And, althoug·h as a chron.icle of everts it proves en- grossing, the film offers no solu\ tion for a probletn that is vivid as well as brutal. Dealing mainly with a young rough just out of reformatory and caught in a situation wherein to survive is to steal a·nd cheat, the plot finds him in the end a product of circumstances, with two mur- ders to pay for. But one can never wholly condemn him, for, like the other boys involved, he is a re- jected' human be'ing, with no pur- pose· other than to exist, and no desire other · than to be tempor- arily fulfilled. Technically, the motion picture is superb. With very little device obvious at any time, the film moves rapidly and easily at \ aJJ times. The acting is natural and easy, something to be admired, par- ticularly when one realizes tha·t a good part of the cast is made up of young boys. Next Tuesday, the Student Council will meet to heat· the results of the lFC poll on deferred rushing. The frater- nities voted last night on the question of a half term or f~ll term deferment. If the balloting· sho\VS that the IFC IS for a half term deferral, the Tuesday SC meeting ma:y ]JrO- CI.uce some of the biggest fireworks of the year on cam-pus. The Concordiensis has been constant in its recommenda- tions that the Interfraternity group adopt the plan which would rule out rushing for one term. Apparently, there are others on campus that feel as we do. For that reast>n, the Student Council asked the IntE;rfraternity Council to re- consider its vote for the half term period. Fmthermore, they failed to take any definite point of view, pre- fering to hide behind a mask of objectivity rather than expressing the str-ong feelings which we are sure they must have on the sub- ject, since they have both been so closely connected with the facts of the situation in Hanna Hall. It would seem also that there are others on the campus who have just as strong opinions about the situation, and that, rather .than be- ing if.nored as they have been in the past, they should J;le .ferreted out and thoroughly heard no mat- ter how vitriolic their opinions may be. There were two alternatives offered last week. To our mind only one of these is possible; in a small college such as Union the level of productions should be such that it stays within the bounds .of the abilities and desires of those producing the show. This we feel has been the trouble with Mounte- ban!{s in the - rc>cent past. The director and the powers that were demanded too much, and in such a manner from those interested that the casually interested person has been completely .alienated, thus leaving the power in the hands of a few. Any continuity of member- ship was eliminated'. People came in fot· one show and vowed never to work in 'the theater again. The basic trouble, we feel, was that the spirit of the organization was com- pletely broken. The director and a hard core around him utilized people as one does a pawn in chess. When they were through, these people were cast aside. The answer, we feel, is a return to the type of theater where an ir.d,ividual can devote as much 0r as little time as .he wants, without being pressurized. The desire to do a great deal of work must arise from the rank and file member- ship as a result of harmonious spirit, not from tyrranical leader- Another example: \If the last war had not come along to 'provide a boom for business, the ideas of socialization .in America would' have died a long time ago.\ Here Mr. Tower completely overlooks .the fact the New Deal and World War II saved capitalism in this country for awhile, and that our present boom, which has lasted 12 years, is directly attributable to produc- tion for war. This boom ha9 also reducecj. the support of the pro- ponents of socialism to .a low ap- proaching that of the 1920's. Big business wants no alteration of their present high pr,ofits, and since they have come back from their discredited position of the 1930's they and their representatives in and around Congress are enacting Jegistlation to control and destroy the strength of the socialist move- ment, with a fair amount of suc- cess. The actors are in part no:r.-pt:o- fessiollal, taken from the Church of England to participate in the film. The actor playing Thomas A. Becket is such a person. The result is a pleasing. one, for, with this lmowledge, the characters seem much more real in that one is convinced that this is not mere- ly another part fgr hirn to play. Eliot's position is one which is open to attack, of course, but I do not choose to debate that point at this time, since it involves, mainly, those systems of thoug.ht and be- But the outlook is grim. The picture offers no solution to a problem which is obviously n pressing one. In some respects this is to be admired, for roost of us are fairly sick of Hollywood's idea that a happy ending in a grim situation is enough of a ray of hope to satisfy all. The only bright spot observed is the Mexi- can work camps, which are run not as prisons, but as homes, where boys who want can learn trades and occupations and Jive in decent conditions. If the IFC continues to show it won't stomach a full term delay, it will have to present a strong case for. such action. If a pressing financial need is what governs then course, t~e Student Council will likely give reluctant support to the1r proposal. We feel that a deferral of eight weeks would- he 11seless, and if that plan is adopted it would be unwieldy. We would rather see no deferment than a half-hearted.attempt. Whatever the result, there will be bitter feelings on one side. For this reason, the coming SC meeting will likely set a record for longevity and vociferousness. -J.J .. c. Let's Support the Prom Spring, if you've noticed, arrived three weeks ago. Knowing that most of you have been kept indoors due to the incessant rain which has favored the environs of Sche- nectady, we thought that \Ve'd pass along this information about the arrival of God's most gracious season. Having enlightened you to the presence of spring-, we further inform you, this time to tell you that th·e Spring· Prom is only three weeks away. The harbinge1·s of the Spring Prom are now busily at work in the fratemity houses and the dormitories in the attempt to dispense their wares, tickets to said Prom. The Junior class Prom committee has been working clandestinely since the start of the second term to line up a good band. We feel that their labors have been rev.arded with the signing· of the Tex Beneke. Good dance JDusic is synonymous with his name. The final plans for the weekend are being C<JJnpleted. Not only has the committee provided a fine band, but to at- tract the campus community in unprecedented numbers, they have lowered the p1·ice of tickets to $6.00 per couple. We feel that the Prom committee has done an outstan:dhrg- job. But the Prom must have support. Let's make the biggest social event of the year the biggest in history. -J. J. c. An Old Story at Union In November the voters of America :will troop to the polls. April is election time at Union, and as usual, very few students voted Wednesday for their class officers. Initiative is at such an ebli> on campus, it is a wonder there were as many voters as candidates. Steps in the right direction have been taken by inter- ested individuals, however. Tl1e establishment of Bailey Hall as a more localized polling place will draw a. larger number of voters. we beliew. The reinstitution ()f an old plan whereby the candidates C()Ulcl present their qualific- a~ions at a chapel program was also noteworthy. About one-fifth of the junior class voted fo1· their next year's president. This in spite of his biKing resprmsible for all graduation plans next year. The coming junior class president wi11 be in charge of the Junior Prom; he also received a small percentage of actual class support. This all adds up to another boot in the derriere for the student body. Before we boot too hard, we remind you that the elections for Student Council representatives will be held Wednesday in Bailey Hall. -J. J. c. ship which browbeats people into action which produces topnotch shows and, at the same time, ldlls thP organization. Yours truly, ARTHUR H. ROSENFELD HERBERT L. SCHMERTZ WALTER T. TOWER, JR. EDWIN B. HICKS DAVIS W. GRIFFITH If this babble of Tower (thank you Messrs. Underwood, Schwartz, and Schmertz) is to continue in the future, it seems to me Tip should stop using the editorial \we\ and \our and use uru and '~my,'' for I am sure his thinking does not represent that of many of The IDOL staff. WILLIAM CONWAY For Your Information SUNDAY, APR. 13 - EASTER. Schenectady County Christian Youth Council Sunrise Service, MC, 6:30 a.m. All Welcome; Sunday service, Easter Music and Read- ing.s, The Rev. Robt. B. Fulton, Chaplain, Union College and Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, organist, MC, 11 a.m. All welcome. MONDAY, APR. 14--Daily Assem- bly, The Glee Club, MC, noon; De- bate Tournarrent, English Reading Room, 1 p.m.; Glee Club researsal, OC, 7 p.m.; Photographic Society,\ CE Library, 7:30 p.m. TUESDAY, APR. 15-NO ASSEM- BLY TODAY. Assembly will be held tomorrow when Miss Nancy Adam of the British Women's La- bor Organization wilt be 'on cam- pus; Senior class meeting, OC, noon; Women's Staff Assn. OC, 12:30, speaker, Prof. Wm. T. Winne; Debate Tournament, Eng- lish Reading Room, 1 p.m.; UCCA Marriage CoursC'. OC. 4:30 p.m.; PRIZE ESSAYS, final submission date; American Rocl1et Society, CE 108, 8 p.m. WEDNESDAY, APR. 16 - Daily Assembly, Miss Nar.cy Adam, £rit- ish Women's Labor Organization, \British Women at Work,\ MC, noon; Varsity baseball; Union vs. Wil.Jiams at WiJJiamstown, 4 p.m.; Glee Club rehearsal, OC, 4:30p.m.; AIEE <Union Chapter( EE 22, 7:30 p.m.; COLLEGE LECTURE, Miss Nancy Adam, \The Part British Women Play in British Public Life,\ MC, 8 p.m. Open to Public without charge. Two points credit for students; Am'erican Assn. of University Women. OC. 8 p.m. THURSDAY, APR. 17-DaHy As- sembly, speaker, M1·. Ray Hart- sough of the American Friends Service Committee, MC, noon; Am- erican Assn. of University Women, Hale House Lounge, 8 p.m.; ASME, EE 22, 8 p.m. FRIDAY, APR. 18-Daily Assem- bly, recital, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, MC, noon; Varsity Tennis, Union vs. Brooklyn Polytechilic Institute, 1:30 p.m.: Faculty Women's Club, Mrs. Vladimir Rojansl,y, hostess, 3 p.m. SATURDAY, APR. 19--PARENTS' WEEK-END <Sponsored by th\i! Delphic Society}. Registration, Hale House, 8 a.m.-1 p.m.; Visits to classes and open house in E.E. Bldg., 8 a.m. to noon; College Bookstore open for visits, 1-3 p.m.; Activities offices open and WRUC tours, 1-5 p.m.; Tennis, Union vs. Stevens, 1:30 p;m.; Lacrosse, Union vs. Hofstra, 2:30 p.m.; Baseball, Union vs. Syracuse, 3:30 p.m.; 5-6· p.m., informal discussion with President Davidson, MC; Coffee Hour, 8-9 p.m. Hale House; 9 p.m. Concert by Union Colleg.e ·Glee Club, MC. ---0,--- Placement News The 1952 edition of CAREER is available to any Junior l;!r Senior who would like 13. copy. It contains statements of 52 companies which are interested in c.,ollege graduates as employes. Wallace & Tierl!an Industries will interview here Monday. ·If you are a physicist, biologist, chemist, or civil engineer, you are welcome to meet their representative. even though you may not be eligible for employment ?tntil a year or two later:. Joe Furlong '42, who is in the Cost and Rate Department of Cen- tral Hudson Gas & Electric Corp., will come to talk with any Seniors who inform this office of their in- terest in that type of worl,, National Carb6lt Co. is added to the list on Bulletin No. 35. This company deals in Eveready, Pres- tone, and other related consumer products. The date will be April 17: and there will be other addi- tions to Jhe interviewing list dur- ing the latter part of April. SC Elections Elections fo1• Student CoWlcil rep1•esentativ:es will be held Wednesday, April 16, in Bailey Hall. William S. Wright, elec- tion director, anno11nced that the closing date for submitting signed petitions to the Student Activities office has been ex- tended to Monday, April i4. SAVE 15% ON FOOD COSTS SAVE 15% NOTT RESTAURANT AND BAR For Qt!icl< Take-out Orders Call Sch.-6-9766 Raw, Steamed Clams \Meef and Eat a-t-EDDIE'S\ 547 Nott St., opposite Green Gate . Schenectady, N. Y. MEAL TICKETS-$5.75 for. $5.00 For a Successful PARENTS' WEEKEND PHIL ~NGLEBARDT'S LIQUOR STORE 519 Union St. PI-lone 3-3110 • A Full Supply of LIQUORS and WINES LUIGt•s RESTAURANT Speciali:dng in ltalian-Ameriean Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schen. 6-9744 Enioy ou .. Sizzlinq Steaks and Chops SNOW WHITE and the , - SEVEN DWARFS Sterling Haiden plu• JUNGLE MANHUNT GUERRA'S PHARMACY • Founfain Prescriptions Sundries • bOO Union St., Cor. Barrett St. • Watches, Jewelry Clocks Repaired • Engraving, too! ay Jewlery Cio. \ We the ·b tion : doOrE an del Base bard4 begir tea;m even so ph• ates Fr: pt'OSJ a sh vaca· first and I makt nor they this thou that each Thel nage · scori Ar keep catic trip have door a fe· able gras w vars ning to b his moll lack La\\ qui2 say hea· pitc Vi tear the sea~ the ove: I Rei ried ern the Pri: T tivi mir his fiei hai hea jec as me fyil I wit ya1 .. we: wU be! tin thi me be pe1 mi an U11 tht

- - e e \ a p a a 's FRIDAY. APRIL n.·l952 Union Nine Opens Track Lineup Stickmen Await First Against Williams A!f~~r~ni~e~ray Contest With Hofstra ·against the Catamounts of By Paul Gilbert . ~·by IRWIN BARG. W d Thed first spring .spo1·ts contest will get underway on Vermont only a week ·away, With one wee~ remaining t? the season's opener against e nes ay afternoon, when Art Law.rence's varsity nine Track Coach Bill Ketz finds Hofs~ra! the Umon Col)ege stlC~~andlers are rounding into The Spectator Weather, once again, has been m~ets the Williams baseball squad, in Williamstown. It his Galloping D u t c h m e n a fonmda:ble array, h1ghly spmted and well conditioned \' ·bi\'\\ '\\'\ tn tho P\P'\•- wtll ·be the opening game !or both teams and Coach Law- rapidly rounding into shape. The advent of favorable spring weather has permitted th; tion for the opening· of the Spring .ren.ce looks to the Williatns team to be one of Union's Aside from the 440, which squad to hold out<iloor scrimmages. Without l'ougher opponents during the current season. was hard hit t·hrough g1·adu- coach Frank O'Brien sports a 0 ------------- use of field solid starting aggregation, buf house facilities, Linen!) Uncertain ~ . ation., the squad appears set, Jacks the necessary depth to cope fine conditioner for the athletes the coaches run· Lawrence is still not sm·e of .his the fast campaign, and Paul and a successful season looms with some of the more polished as two practice sessions and f0.41: a problem of opening lineup and several of the Meader. brightly. · squads on our schedule. Accord- games were held. g prac- P?sitions, notably the starting Pitching a Problem. ~ng to O'Brien, the team is vastly a--- sessions in Pitcher for the first game, will de- Spr•inters Im·pressive. Improved, but there is still room crowded ·gym pend on the perf'ormances shown Pitching will remain Arfs big-· for improvement in the attack and M k . year. This in today's .pra~··t'ce game a'nd to- gest problem. Only Jim Hogan re-' ln the dashes it will be Fr,nk g I II . ar sm·. en Score, ~' turns from 1 t ' d t ff Kiwus and John Trotter, with the enera a -around play. . sprmg·_ was rio morrow. after:\nooli's intrasquad · . as years moun sa . t I Jl ·m· Ca . B'JJ B . th n latter doubli:ii.g in the quarter. John At·~-k . s t T\ L d w 3XCCP Ion. game. Many ·Of the positions Wl\IJ . rrigg, 1 00 ' .uon Reed, \\\' IS e Ierney ea ·s ay b d \\ K' . Larkin and Stig. Gustafson look · ' A k f • e filled \ t · 1 an · u-1enn Inns Will ma:ke up · The attack is pretty well set wi'tll · · wee o ram, · · .,y re urnmg P ayers, but th b 1 f h impressive in the 880. Old reliable . the Spi•I· 1 ,.,. several of the freshmen and. sopho- e a aJnce o t e hurling staff. D k • Ben Thelin, Herb Hufnagel last T tho •quad• ;;;: m\e ~ndldale• hoVe a ehaaoe to Should ,omolhlng happen lo \\' G 1<, Dolao nod hlo '\'blo =to ye='• high oeom, end ToaY De- he Neophyto Ualoo olfiomeo doors w~ile Daley Field and Alex- break into the starting lineup ,of his starting pitchers, Lawrence . an Clough, are ca:rrying the colors Bello. At the midfield, O'Brien ha.s continued their winning ways over ander Field lay anltlP deep in mud. At ., may fall back on DePuyt m the !distance events. Clough is Bill Snyder and Bill Hall to lead t~e past weeks, making impressive B..,...,, ~• •~\ ~• hit th• - '\' •~•- Mt w•ll ehooa• The Ualon oo~h '\ls that wh•o P\\\' Y homp\_ed_ by a bod ankle tho ••Y- Oblo hM bem altoona(- ' owWgo ;a \\' meeto =• ehalk- ha- of eoo~, bema'< \\ <com B•ll Bloomfield, who doobled ho gelo th• \ru'hng team \' tho wh•<h may olow' h>m do~o -•~•- '\'-Curt Bateo ond Jolm Kamenit- tng op one national \'\''- egm prac Ice before the oth . · rs ase squ~ s ou e fairly strong de- cellent condition and Coa h K t s Y a e third midfield slot. e recent Connecticut cham- b • t\ Y m the outfield and at fi t b d h ld b . ' · what. Dolan, however IS m ex- k t th At th tea;ms do, and this ypar it w~~ last season, and Bob Munro. Dick fi·nens1V!3ly. Because ?itc?ing is go- is looking for 'hi~ to ~ollapes! The defense, which will. probably pionships a four man team repre- even more of a problem with .both Munro, co-captain .on this season's . g to ~e Lawrence s b~ggest prob- school records in the mHe and two be the Garnet strong point, ·boasts. senting Union placed fourteenth in sophomores and· f.rpshmen candid- club, looks l~k.e a good bet at the !em this year, he will have to mile runs. · Bob Haas; Gene Erickson, and a_ field of over 130 top colleges, atE's showing up for the first time keystone position, hut he will have count heavily on his batsmen to Jack Stroud .. Jess Dickson im- high schools and private clubs. On Frank O'Brien took his varsit · s?me COI_npetiUon fro~ Tom C_or- come through in the tight games. Bill Ketz made a remark that proving by leaps and bounds 'looks March 30, the team moved to proepeet,, oome twonty odd moo .~ . \'!\- , J •m Wale\ ·~ oomp•lmg W\\'\\' Pnwe\'\' P\ttY well eume up tho '''\k eitu- like tho (eueth defoneoma~ aed · Ridgewood, New J mey to again a ehoet P'\\\ hip duelng the . w•th ''\h=• Je\'Y T,.hmkel =d · atlon. \Wh•n the guiog gote ehould pe~ the tatt\ th\o '\' fim agalMl tup-nutcl• oumpotitlon =\tton Ohio wa. ablo to get the eoph=oeo Joe_ Loffredo fuo the Willl=e, laet YM''' Littl• Tho\' oough, 1 loll Delao to eun two a ela.tlng beoth, Bob Godburo will In the Natlooal Rifle A,ooclatlon first real look at his new material third _ba~e posLtion. Ted Ca!des has champs, features a strong pitching miles. By the time he's through be in the nets, and he appears. sectionals. Final results of the =• hle \tuoelng play\' bot woe't th• '\\d' te~k <oo ehortOOp, etaff led hy Mike Puffeo ~• Johe \'oytbing looka eoay agate. Thot'e mo\ \' mooe lik• the '''Pia\- ehootlng have net been aenouneed, make much comment on his team. where he played a~ the end of last. Beard. These _two ~u~lers ac- · how good he looks this year.\ m,ent O'Brien has been in search but, according to unofficial tabula- nthor m~ke any predictions of how season, after startmg at first base. ~oorui.nesteddurfionrg ntihnee 1W951Ill!ams ':'ic- In the field events Union should of. A topnotch performance by tion, the three participating fresh- ey will fare fo th F c campaign b Godburn might spell a w 1 ·n· n 1 ·ng· men from Union turned in bril- . r e season. rom o-captain Bill Harris Gene d . e hard to beat, as ·a vast array of !' thle d\'tant vlowpelat, it leeke ao Sabwart•man ond Hnbl• 'nePuyt an they w•ll b' baokod up by capable Weight mon \\ on h~d, \l'S®- •aet p•rloemaoe~- Sid Dunboo though Fmnk will ba~ lo pmy took like good pr\'p~ts roe etart- \\'\ 1 - oth~_ \turning -huete,._ In the \\\ it will be Tom Glam- On tho~ ann\'l P~~oaaon jouet 'l;\~~:d ,{,!:.\Jtn~~- ';;~n:h~~ 0 ~ 1 '- that Godburn gets real hot for ing berths in. the outfi ld M'k ~or his ~attmg strength, Coach bruno, Ed O'Mea!ly and George through the east, the stickmen I' eaoh grune aed lha< Snyd\' aed .MOOol witt be d ' ' -'-' oombs w•ll poebobly b• eo=tlog Batktowle• Leu Mulleo and <aloed oathoe well agaleet keen '\\\ paeed th• Mad•-• Cta~, Thelin will be able to give Huf- outfielder if h us~ as ~ ~tthty on several heavy hitting sopho- O'Meally will carry the brunt in competition. Although the Dutch- also winning his section . . nag~! more of a tussel for high into the' openi!g ~i'::eu~ 0 B ~~a~ :ores. Sophs Cre.er, Hawkins, and the shot put, with help coming men barely edged out Adelphi and Tierney Sets Record scormg honors. the plate L h · e In 1· aher are possible starters be- from several first year men. dropped the next three games in Art Lawrence was even afraid to. mores Di~lt ·R~.:~~n~e d .;;~ ks~~h~- ~ind the .plate, at short, and at succession to p e n n 6 y 1 van i a, In addition to placing third in keep his squad here over tQ,e va-· fer who saw om n t' IC d .a-. rst base. The outfield will have Klingberg in J>ole vault Swarthmore and Princeton, the the Senior Expert Class and fifth cation. As it turned out with no ' s e ac IOn urmg (Continued on Page 4) squad acquired valuable experi- in the offhand shooting., the third trip· planned, the boys w' ould not' . Len Kling.berg returns for an- Th t . h s e other season in the pole vault ence. e rip .proved to be a <Continued on Page 4) . ave been able to get in any out- ·pfJDg s t s h d l event, after walking off with the ______ .:__;:_ _____ :_:::.c_ __ _:_:=:.::.:.:~:.::_~~~~__::__ __ door practice anynow. It was just . . p. or s c e u· fi N.Y.S. Conference title last year. AT ..... B. Graubarts & Sons a few short days ago that Art was '- . The broad jumpers will be Vince IYl able to let his fielders get some Vai·sity Baseball Apr. 23-Middlebury- G d K' grass under their feet. Apr. 16-Williams Apr. 28-*Sampson AI\I' b~erra an IWUS. The latter is We nepa.·r W 'th th b\ Apt' 19 •s Force eing groomed as a pit man to · ft. • • • · A 23 make use of his sp~ed. Bob Mur- I e 1ggest games fo1• the · - · yracuse Base A 26 ray an ee Michalsky will handle our WATCHES va. rsity nine coming at the begin. - pr. -Rochester May 2-*Vermont d L Y t A 30 e 1g hurdles, with Murray and y o be quite a chore for Art to pick Jr. 2 -*Bamilton May 10'-Sampson Air Force Frank Panariello, taking care of cur JEWELRY, Your SILVER nmg of the schedule, it is going pr. -•Hobart May 7~\'Hami'lton th h\ h his pitchers from one returning ay -*R.F.I. Base the low hurdles. • moundsman and 'four pmspectswho May. 7-*Rochester May 17-*R.P.I. Utmost c:are is taken by skilled workers lack intercollegiate experience. May 12-..Middlebury May 21-Hamilton t ' i Lawe~ee toe - eeti~nt when Moy 14--RP,, May 24-R,-,I, o gtve you every reasoo to be poeased. quizzed about his prospects, but did May 17--.:Stevens varsity Golf Softball Entries -Watches and clocks cleaned and repaired say that he may have to count May 21 -*klllany State Apr. 25---Sa:p:J.pson Air Force -New watch cases and ·bands h~avi!Y on his hitters to keep the May 24-Ha:milton Base Arl Lawrence has announced pitching staff out in fmnt. Varsity Track Apr. 2S-Rochester that all entries fo1.· the intra- -New watch crystals inserted With all the talk 1 of the Spring Apr. 19-Rochester Apr. 30-Williams mural softball league must be -Jewelry and silver replated and repaired teams beginning practice during Apr. 26-*Hamilton May 7 -*Vermont in his office by Tuesday after- the past couple of weeks, the·post- May 7-Ha.rtwick May 9-*Hamilton noon. Fraten:dties. are only re- seasonal activities of a couple of May 10-*R-P.I. May 1 4-*R.P.I. quired to state whethe1• or not the swimmers were pretty much May 14-*Vermont May 16-*Sampson Air Force they are going to enter, while overlooked by everybody. Werner May 17-.At New York State Base any group of Independents must 1 Reiners and Dick Hartmann car- Assn. Champs. May 20-Hamilton submit a roster. tlbl name of ried the Union colors to the East- varsity Lacrosse May 21-Colgate the manager, and the ma,nager's ern In~ercollegiates at Yale and to Apr. 19~*H:dstra May 2 4-R.P.I. telephone number wherever pos- the national NCAAs down at Apr. 23-\Dartmouth •Home Games sible. Princeton. Apr. 26_::_*Stevens These meets were the final ac- Apr. 30-*R.P.I. tivities for Union's finest swim- 'May 7- Williams ming team. By taking second in May 10-Cornell his heat in the 50, Reiners quali\ May 17-Hobart fied for the semifinals' where be May 21-*Nliddlebury had to settle for third place in his May 24-Ba:milton• heat. Reiners :wasn't nearly as de- J. V. Lacrosse jected about his efforts in the 50 Apr. 26.-Williams as he was about his time in 150 May 7-*Deerfield medley, which kept him from qua!i- May 10-*R.P.I. fying. May 24-R.P.):. Hartmann didn't have much luclr Va.I•sity Tennis with his entries in the 100 and 200 Apr. 18-•Broolrlyn Poly yard .backstroke. .Reiners, . who Apr. 19-*S:tevens Institute w~nt down to Princeton •alone, wrth 1\lullane, felt he should have been able to do very much better time tl1an he did do, in being rated thirteenth in .thf' NCAA individual medley. Whitey and Dick should be given plenty of credit fOJ' com- peting against such national swiln- ming stars as Nugen and Mattson, and it is only the second time that Union swJm.rners have competed in these national meets. · L. G. BALFOUR CO·. FraterJtify Jewerers BADGES- RINGS- FAVORS JEWELRY :LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY • PROGRAMS OLUB PINS • KEYS MEDALS • TROPHmS Write or call CARL SORENSEN liO.)_Murrny Ave. Waterlord, N;Y. . PHONE 'I'ROY --ADAMS 8-2523 W ate I' Safety Courses Ray Mullane will begin giving the Senior Life Saving and Wa- ter Safety Instructor's courses :for all hrtprested stndt'nts on Monday April 14, at 4:30 p.m •. The classes will be held. every .afteJ.•noo:n, except Saturday, at 4:3o p.m. GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall X-BAY FITTING 245 State St.-Since 1895 .. ----------- - ----- ........ ..,--------·-1'! i Famous Cllin~e :nd ·1. : ServiBg Union's Men : . :1· American Foods : · For Years . : LUM FUNG 1 1 See your agent on Campus 1: I Restaurant 1 1 :UNITED :· BEST LIQUORS : CLEANERS : . AND COCKTAILS t : 1AILORS I ~sl 1 Rhone 4-5676 : ~~-~=~~::y ... ~h~o:: .. ~::J. t • ~~~=a:~::: ::y • J Best company , an Easter bonnet ever kept • ••. TilE AllllOW SHIRT! . '•, Get ready for Easter with Arrow Shirts in white, solid colors, and patterns, and Arrow Tles. Afl?fl(j}W »»- ... ·-~-~ >· SHIRTS i TlliS • SPORTS SHIRTS • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • 166 JAY STREET·· Opposite Mohican You supply the girl . .• we'll supply the Arrow white shirt! Handsomest shirt in the Easter Parade! Arrow Ties $1.50 up Arrow Handkerckiefs .3 5 up Look your best and feel your best-in your fa• vorite Arrow Shirt and a new Arrow· Tie! Only the :finest \Sanforized\ fabrics go into Arrow shirts, and that famous Mitoga cut assures trim· ness with no bunching to spoil the fit! Come in and make your selection now. NUSBAUM'S 447-451 STATE STREET _____ FOR ARROW UNIVERSITY STYLES ----.....1

4 Testing Program AidS In Choosing Vocation Rifle Team· (Continued from Page 3) member of the trio-Pete Tierney, went on to set a new nati0nal record in the prone shooting event. - By Alfred H. Kingon TiElrney fired a perfect 200 in his Most of the students at Union are unaware of the extensive match, enabling him to attempt testing-guidance program available to them, under the super- the feat of hitting the bulls-eye 57 more times. After four hom·s of vision of the Psychology depa1·tment. These tests; adrnin- tense and tedious firing, Tier-ney istered by the senior students in psychology, and, inter- quit, having poured 67 consecutive preted by Dr. Pearce and Dr. Graves, operate on the phil- rounds of ammunition through the h th t · 1 f }'f '11 b center circle to establish the new osop y a , n1 every p 1ase o 1 e, a person Wl e more [mark. Need College SuppOl't successful and happier if he has an understanding of his talents, aptitudes, emotions, and personality structure. ·· Aids in Car-eer Choosing <i>-~-----~-------- In acco1dance with this, the test results give the student a complete profile of himself on paper, and, in a series of interviews, the expert analysis of the results by the pro- fessors With this information, those who give the tests and those who have taken them feel that a wiser choice can be made of ma- jors, career, and even choice of mate. The program is used pri- marily for vocatior.al guidance. Dr. Gntves and,Dr Pearce do not mdulge m psychiatric tr~atmen t. They do not accept any cases in- volvln!! severe emotional difficul- t IPS. If the test,s v. hich delve into home and emotional l1fe. 1eveal st:t lOU~ mental d!stUibunces, this will be told to the subject and he will be counselled as to where to obtain p1oper· med1cal aid. Included in this series are tests of mechanical comprehension, musical aptitude, and the Rorschach ink blot test. The third afternoon involves a series of individual performance tests of senso1·y and motor ab1hty, special aptitudes, intelligence, and emotions. All of these tests re- quire no special preparation and are usually quite enjoyable to talte. The results of the tests are veady about two weeks after a subject has been tested. The full battery of tests and guidance are open to the public nt n chargP of thirty fiVE' dollars. but a specml discount is allowed students of Union College. The cost to them is twenty five dollars. Union College was not entered as a team in the sectionals because no fourth man was available to f11l a regulation roste1. The regular team has been vigorously active this season for the first time in many years, because of the infu- sion of stellar freshmen: Tierney, Dunbar, Williams, and · Harry Hamil. These fresh, plus Pete Edmger and Charles Stuart have been handicapped in their quest for more honors, experiez:c'e and sea- soning by the absence of college recognition or financial suppor.t. The cost of meet entrance fees, transportation, and ammunition have been borne at their own ex- pense and ha\ pre\'PntPd i'ntry 1'1 many meets. The testirg-guidance pro• J·am was foundPd by Dr Ligon in 1936. in conjunction with thP CharactPr Hesearch ProJect Today, however, many people in the college, the SchenPctndy community. and Cities all over the country participate as well as those m the research pro- ject Si nee its inception several thousand people have been tested and counselled. Testing is Comprehensive The program consists of about f1fty to seventy five separate tests Rating sheets of physical, intel- lectual. special aptitude, and emo· tiona! traits a1 e filled out by par- ents, friends, teachers, and the sub- ject. Then a series of tests are taken at horne by the subject. The actual program consists of three afternoons of tests taken in the psychology laboratory. During two of them, the tests are talten in groups and are largely written. Baseball IContmued from Page 3) two veterans in Tom Dorsey and Pete Connolly. While Lawrence feels that the team has a good chance for a suc- cessful season, he can not make any re.al predictions until he sees how some of his candidates fare under actual competition. Because of the hkelihood of inclement weather, the Union mentor did not keep his team in practice during the Spring vacation and, in, fact, was only able to get the boys on Alexander Field this past Tuesday. Of the teams that should give the Dutchmen thP most competi- tion, Williams Ryracuse and Roch('sti'r Rl'P thP likPlv cand!- datP~ RochP!ltPr al\\'avs· has a tough team and Syracuse can al- most ah1·ars field strong nine lTn- fortuntely, these sC'hools will be the first three that Union will face on their twC'I\'!' gam<> Rchedule during the coming season ----0 Phi Delts Lead in Intra Point Race With most of the intramural schedule completed, Phi Delta Theta fraternity is leading the way for the point trophy. With only baseball and track remaining, the Phi Delts have a slim margin over Delta Upsilon. In compiling their 443.565 points the victors won first place in the intra swimming meet, copped sec- ond place in football, and finished third in both baslretball and vol- leyball. Delta Upsilon, breathing down the leader's neck with 427.95 points, won the football and volley- ball championships. They also finished second in swimming, but gained only a tie for fifth in bas- ketball, which prevented their over- hauling the leaders. Delta Phi, winner in the basket- ball playofljj, is in third place. The bulk of their points came in vol- leyball and on the basketball court. Undefeated in the latter, they man- aged a second place finish in the volleyball D Phi also reached the playoffs in football before being eliminated. TEAM POINTS Phi Delta Theta... . . . . . .. .443.565 Delta Upsilon . . . . . .. 427.955 Delta Phi . . . . . . . . . . . . 388,566 Delta Chi . . . . . . .......... 323.896 Phi Sigma Delta . . . . . .319.874 Chi Psi ..................... 281.424 Kappa Alpha . . . . . . . . 275.234 Beta Theta Pi . . 275.054 Kappa Nu . . . . . . . . . 244.571 Kappa Sigma . . . . . . . . . . . . 244.283 Alpha Delta Phi . 232 531 Sigma Chi . . 217.498 Beta Eta Upsilon . . '210.712 Phi Gamma Delta 208.927 Psi Upsilon 189 363 Phi Sigma Kappa 138 571 Engineers 127.777 Th('ta Delta Chi 101 071 Eaters 100.000 ROTC 51111 ASCE 50000 Freshies . 50 000 FERRO•s RESTAURANT Mr. and Mrs. George Ferro, Proprietors 1115 Bar.rett St. PRIVATE ROOM FOR PARTIES Specializing in Italian-American Food PHONE 6m9554 GAZETTE PRESS Printers Results of the Vi/estern Massa- chusetts Gallery Tournament at Pittsfield last W<'ekend havP not as yet been published Concordy Has Novel Rival A new publicatiOn appeared on the Union College scene this week as the \Flying Dutchman,\ the newly-formed unofficial org 1 an of the Air ROTC forces was born. This new mimeograp,hed missive might provide the staid old Con- cordiensis with its first circulation fight in many a year. Graves is EditOr William Graves, a sophomore. from Newton, Mass. is editor. He states in his editortal policy that the a1m of the newspaper is to \bolster espirit de corps\ of the an· force group. Mainly concerned w1th the gossip that would interest the airmen, the 8 page issue 1•an a who's who of officers and men assigned to the Union unit, a list of all premotwns and some sports coverage of the exceptionally fine rifle team the AFROTC has this year. Complaining about the political pressuring that is rampant in some of the college publications today at Union, Editor Graves promised to tell \. . . what has happened, what 1s happening, and what is g01ng to happen. .\ Well, Swami Graves. the Cor.cordy wishes you luck. · Four ROTC members received awards for the title \Flying ;Dutch- man.\ The next publication date has not been announced. FRIDAY, APRIL n, 1962 -Pre-Registration Students who do not expect to available at the Library and Regis· return in the fall, with the excep- trar's: Office at that time. tion of those who are graduating, should report to ~he Registrar's Office at once. Students who wish to change their curricula for the fall semester should see De'an Huntley withOut delay. Schedules for the following stu- dents will be made in the Regis- trar's Office and students need not report unless called: To avoid disappointment, due to over-election in various courses, It is important that students report to their advisers promptly. Swnmer Session Students planning to attend the Summer Session will make out their summer schedule~ at the same time that they report to their advisers for malting their fall schedules. All Civil and Electrical Engineers Pr~sent Term 2 Physics Majors Any technical student wh.o is All other st!Jdents shQuld report irregular and plans to attend Sum- for preparation of schedules to mer School should• report to ad- their advisers as follows: viser. Present Sophomores and Jwtiors -between Monday, April 21, aml Wednesday, April SO. ~~~:;:::::;:;;:~~ Present Freshm.en - between Monday, May 5 and Friday, Friday, May 9,\ Any student failing to comply with this regulation will not be as- sured of a place in the College for the uext academic year. The prograw of courses will be sent to the fraternities and dormi- torie~ during the foirst part of the week of April ;1:4; it will also be James Restaurant • GOOD FOOD at prices you can afford. Booth and Fountain Service 426 State Street WHAT AR£ TH£ ODDS! man : . . . . . . \ . . . . . . . •' I \ I. I \ I \ I I• '·. t·, ., I \ \ The F. & M. Schaefer Brewing Co., N.Y. Vot. I F I in Co1 vot T Wh4 tlot nin def it. den we1 pro tiOI sta 'I rus Int Th Stt the '] cle th~ ac1 m!1 ba1 SUI to th4 th4 Me mE ml se1 A e!E ag gr th re th be pc in 0\ ac H re H in dl w t u 1: a t

I itamnnb Jubtlr:e Interesting Letters Page 2 11 ' ... • StS Welcome To Parents' Weekend Founded at Union CoUege in 1877 Vot. 79. ·No. 21 SCHENECTADY, N. Y •• APRIL 18, 1952 PRICE 10 CENTS Hochuli Decides J~zz Trio Exhibits, Discussions RushingDeadl-ock StgnedFor.T H. h· 1· ht W k d .·. · · · · MCRecital • o 1g. Ig · · ee en • By He1·bert L. Spira In ·a dramatic move made at ·the Student Council meeting in Bale Hou~e lounge Tuesday evening, Interfraternity Council president Robert H. Hochuli cast the tie-breaking vot~, insuring a full term defjrment of rushing next year. The Rex: Stewart band and the Billy Taylor trio have been signed for the April 28 . Jazz Concert in Memorial Breaks Deadlock The situation was brought about when the results of the IFC ques- tionnaire on rushing showed that n.lne· houses were for the full term deferral, while nine were against it. Exercising his right as presi- dent, Hochuli voted for the sixteen week postponement, settling a prol>len:i which has held the atten- tion of the student body since the start of the second term. .----------------------. ·Chapel, it was announced early this week. The nego- tiations for the two groups had been strung out for about · three wee:ks, but by Monday ---' all contracts were in the stu- To the Editor of Concordiensis: dent activities office. At the April 8 meeting of the IFC President Explains Action Interfraternity Council I passed out Stewart Will Lead Band ballots to each of the seventeen Stewart ·will have in his band· The question of enforcement of rushing rules will now go to the Interfraternity group to be settled. The orientation committee of the Student Council will meet with them to work out the details. The rushing problem being cleared up with much more celerity than expected, the SC heard and accepted the report of the com- mittee Investigating the l','[ounte- banka. The investigators made suggestions which will be offered to any group which forms and calls themselves Mountebanks. delegates there on the sul:lject of Bob Gilbert on clarinet; Munn deferred rushing, and contacted' Ware, trombone; Willie \the Lion\ the eighteenth delegate personally Smith, pianQ; and Dave Hill, on Wednesday. This ballot stated drums. Gilber.t has appeared before that the fraternity voted for or on the campus, at the last jam ·:>as- against a sixteen week deferment· sion in the ,Rathskeller. His ran- of rushing for the coming year. dition of the \Blues\ will be re- On Tuesday, April 15 I received· membered by -most as the high · the results and made the report on point of his evening. them at the Student Council meet- Munn Wave, the trombonist, is ing. Nine houses were in favor 'of from New York City where he has the sixteen week deferment and played with most of the great name nine houses were against it. It jazz musicians, including Eddie was up to me, as presi.dent, to cast. Condon, Sidney Bechet, Muggsy The recommendations included the- separation of the \new\ Mountebanks into ju;nior and senior members, the latter group being made up of members who had served In at least two productions. A student . president would be elected, and serve as business man- ager. Students Select Play Plays would be selected by the group, subject to the approval of the faculty advisor. If the advisor refuses to give permission, a two- thirds; vote of the members would be req_ uired to over :ride his veto. Included in the investigators' re- port was the importance of draw- ing Up a time schedule to prevent overwllrk. The role ilf the faculty advisor was also further outlined. He would serve as producer-di- rector under the proposed setup. However, in accordance with keep- ing the play mainly a student pro- duction, the :faculty-advisor's job would be completed opening night. the tie-breaking vote. I cast my. ballot in favor of the sixteen week. period. I want to explain to you just why I took the action that I did in this case. I feel that th9 six- teen-week deferment allows the freshman to become firmly set in his studies. His first permanent marks will already be recorded by the time rushing starts. The second point I'd like to make is that here at Union activities aren't getting the support they need. This fall,. the freshmen had no time, because of the intense rushing, to get interested and in- volved in the activities. With no rushing at all the first semester, the class of ·•55 will really have the opportunity to see all the activi- ties and pick the ones they would like to enter Into. Another point is that the time for rushing under the eight-week de- ferment comes between Thanks- glvmg and Christmas. In my opinion, this period is the toughest of the school year, with the excep- ti on of final exams. Many others on the campus agree with me on this point. Under the semester plan, the rushing takf's place at the beginning of the second term, when there really Isn't much pres- sure on the student~. and thP chance of scholastic harm, so pos- sible during. the early weeks of school, has been eliminated. :rn what was perhaps the most heated discussion of the evening, the Student Council voted, 11-10, to withdraw support of the Union College Christian Association as a tax-supported activity. Several re- votes had to be taken on this mo- tion, and the UCCA announced that they planned to appeal at the next SC assemblage. Rkhard A. De- Mott, Christian Association presi- dent, said that loss of the tax money would greatly curtail both membership and activity. A study to determine the fate of the Board of Managers was tabled· until alternative propositions could be found. The m:ove was made in an attempt to eithet' strengthen the Board or abolish it. I hope now that you, the student body of this college, can see why I voted as I did .. The sixteen-week plan i~;~, to my mind, the only feasible one. That's . why it re- ceived my deciding vote. Sincerely, ROBERT HOCHULI PRESIDENT, INTERFRATERNITY COUNCIL ---01---- Dr. Oai'te1• Da.vi1lson an- normced tha.t there will be two points chapel credit given for the Jazz Conce1t, since it is a regular part of the coUege's concert and lecture selies. Spanier, Bol>by Racket, 'Max Ka- minsky, and others. Recently he has been appearing regularly at the Central Plaza week-end jam sessions along with the fabulous Willie \the Lion\ Smith, who will be pianist here. \The Lion,\ as he likes to be called, is a composer, arranger and pianist with years of jazz experi- ence behind him. Of late he has appeared in this area at the No- vember jazz bar. d ball at the Circle Inn, and in February at the Berk- shire Museum jazz concert in Pitts- field, where his piano work brought down the house. Besides being a fine serious pianist, he is also noted for his renditions of \I Wish I Could Shimmy Like My Sister Kate\ in Yiddish and Greek. Dave Hill is Drunune1· Dave Hill, the drummer, has been v.ith the Stewart quintet, playing in the Capital dlstrid for about ten months. ' The Billy Taylor trio is an all New York group. They are now in the midst of a record breaking run at the Club Downbeat wh('re the group has had nothing but rave nQtives. According to Art Tatum, Taylor is the finest young pianist playing anywhere today. The concert will be held In the Memorial Chapel from 8:15 to 11:15 Monday evening, April 28.. It will be free to all, and is being spon- sored jointly by the college, the jazz appreciation society, and the student tax fund. Parliamentarians Three hundred members of the Union family are ex- pected on campus tomorrow to celebrate the second annual Union College Parents .. ., Dr. Cal'ter Davidson Prof. William Mm·phy · weekend. \The event will give parents a chance to view the many features and facilities of the college and to get a better appreciation of the working of the college as a whole,\ said Gerald E. O'Loughlin, president of the Delphic Society, sponsors of the Weekend. Nemeth in Charge Richard S. Nemeth and Donald · E. Schwartz head a Delphic com- mittee which has been planning the event since early February with the co-operation of the en- tire association. Highlighting the schedule of guided tours, exhibits, and open lectures will be informal discus- sions with college officials con- ----------------- cerning items of college policy and student problems. President Carter Davidson will inaugurate these ses- sions at 5:00 p.m. Saturday, and they will be continued after supper as an informal Coffee Hour from 8:00 to 9:00 p.m. in Hale House lounge. Faculty members will be present at this time to answer Philos Offer Debate On Aid to Education questions on assorted issues suca as cut policy, R.O.T.C. and the draft, of Interest to college parents. The annual Parliamentary debate, sponsored by the Philo- mathean Society, will be held on Monday evening, April 21, at 8:15 p.m. in Old Chapel. The topic to be aired will be \Resolved: That the United States Government Should Adopt a Program of Federal Aid to Education.'' Students will receive detailed in- structions and suggestions, con- cerning guest itineraries, in fra- ternities and on critica1ly placed bulletin boards in the library and Bailey Hall. All undergraduates are urged to have parents register in Hale House upon their arrival, in order to receive a program of events, identification tag, and co-m- plimentary tickets to the baseball game against Syracuse University at 3:30 p.m., Saturday, on the Alexander Field diamond, Dr. Davidson fo1• Negative ~--------------- Speaking for the affirmative will beginning of the debate. The side be Professor William M. Murphy which has made the most converts of the English department. As- is the winner, although the official sisting him will be Eliot Loshak of side of the bouse is that side which the college debaters. Dr. Carter has the most members. Davidson and Norman E. Scull of This debate is the highlight of the Philos will handle the negative Philomathean on-campus activity side of the issue. James Balneaves during the school year. Both Dr. will be chairman of the debate. Davidson and Professo: Murphy A Parliamentary debate differs have had much experience in the from the usual American style de- topic they are to debate. bate in that after the constructive o--- Meet Stevens in Tennis t'receding the baseball game, Union's tennis squad will meet Stevens Institute at 1:30 p.m. and the lacrosse team will tangle with Hofstra College on Library Field at 2:30 p.m., offering a greater op- portunity for visitors to witness and rebuttal speeches of the prin- cipals, the discussion is thrown open to the floor. Any member of the house may express an opinion pertinent to the topic. The mem- bers of the house signify the side of the topic they are on by where they sit; the affirmatives on the left and the negatives on the right. May Change Sides If a house member changes sides during the debate, he merely gets up from his seat and takes a place on the other side of house. At the end of the debate, the chairman counts· the number on each sidg pf the house and then compares the results with a tally made at ·the Senior Class Plans Danee The senior class voted to hold Its Graduation Dance on Friday evening, June 6, at a meeting Tues- day in Old Chapel. Other com- mencement activities and the pro- gress of the insurance fund were also discussed. Choose Swiss Inn athletic or~,anizatior.s in action. Other outstanding features on the agenda include a Glee Club Concert Saturday evening In Me- morial Chapel at 9:00 p.m. follow- ing the Coffee Hour, and an open house exhibit in the Electrical Engineering building, sponsored by the A.I.E.E. All classes and laboratories will be ope11, to inspection and con- ducted in a normal fashion for the . instruction of visiting parents. The bookstore, radio station WRUC and the exotic Dutchmen's Rathskeller the Weekend, with the Rathskeller remaining open. for business from LOO p.m. to 12;00 midnight Satur- day and re-opening to serve break-· fast from 9-11:30 a.m. Sunday morning. Jay N. Cohn, class president, an- nounced that Chevalier's Swiss Inn had been reserved for the dance. Previous classes have held their dances on Saturday night at the Hotel Van Curler; however, Cohn said that the class officers had felt a Friday night dance would be more adventageous. A vote to decide whether the dance should be formal or informal was not con- clusive, and it was decided to mail out ballots to each senior in. order to get a majority opinion. . Campus Chest AI\ ds Reporting on the status of the collection (Jf class dues, President Educatt·onal Groups Cohn announced that about 155 · seniors had contributed and urged \Student Organizations engaged the remaining 50 to pay as soon in extending educational opportunl- as possible. The four class officerR, tics in underprivileged areas\ re- Cohn, James L. Salprno, Gerald D. ceiverl the bulk (Jf. $1580 allocated Roberts and Roger W. Har.ch('r, by the Campus Chest Committee, have been lnsm·ed in the class plan according to their report given be- to present an alumni gift to the fore Tuesday's meeting of the Stu- college. Complete first-year pay-· dent Council. ments on the policies cannot be· By-passing national charity or· made until all the money is col- ganizations, the committee, chair- .-le_c_t:..;e...;.d::., _c.:;.o.;..h_;;;n_;.;a.;;d.;;d...;.e.;..d;... ______ ., · manned by William Pappas, dis- Apply for Proctorships Any student who will be a junior or spnior next fall, and is interested ln becoming a dor- mitory proctor, should submit his rutme to P1·ofessor Ar.tbur C. LawrE-nce not later than Tues- day, April 22. tributed the funds collected on campus as follows: World Student Service Fund, $450; College Cevenol, $330; Ncar East College Associa- tion, $200; United Negro College Fund, $~75; National Scholarship Service Fund, $175; Union College Reconstruction Fund, $150; and the Schenectady Community Chest, $100.

2 ., ' FRIDAY, APRIL 18, 1952 arnutnr ·Letters From Our Readers Member Associated Col- legiate Press and distri- butor of the Collegiate Digest. National Adver- ti•ing Representative: Na· tiona! Advertising- Service, lnc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Mad!· son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub· lished_ every Friday of the school year. Ed1torlal Offlce,Washburn Hall, Union College. Pub- lication Office, The Ga· •ette Press, 33·1 Suite St. Entered in the Schenec- tady Post Ofeice as Sec- ond Clas10 Mail Matter, subscription We a copy; $3 year delivered any· where in the United States. Exchange Student Slams-\\Whispei·ers\ essential to their -conception of freedom, what right have they ,pub- licly to_ air their injured feelings under the guise of a self-t•ighteo1,1s sense -of duty? They are· openly advocating an abandoning of in- tegrity' and duty to his students on the part of a professor, for the sole reason that they, poor persecuted, sensitive souls that they are, do not Jiike his methods. They pre- sumptuously equate personal pique with genuine criticism-albeit de- structive. It Is high .time they cease to spread a whispering. cam- paign agt;Unst the persons of whom they privately d-isapprove, and con- centrate their energies on takip.g practical steps to re-organize a stu- dent group to produce plays-if they are sure this is their aim. painting could and should be In- 'Takes Exce.ption eluded. We feel that, with an expanded 'To Concordy Story .Art department, ,the students in the 'l'o The Editor of Concordiensls: To The Editor of Concordlensls: SENIOR BOARD JOHN J. CASSIDY JR. '53 . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . Editor-In-Chief ffiWIN S. BARG '53 ..................................... Sports Editor MONROE SILVERMAN '52 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . Feature Elditor ALFRED L. GOLDBERGER '54 ..•..•......•....•....•... News Editor MARTI:-.! B. GORDON '54 ................................ Copy Editor HERBERT L. SPIRA '54 .................................. Copy Editor ALAN S. FORMAN '53 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . Photography Editor GEORGE J. WRUBEL '53 ........... : ... , ............ Busineas Manager HORACE VAN VOAS'r '52 ....................... Circulation Manager JUNIOR .B0.4.JLD MARTIN HAUSER '55 , •••••.•.•••. , .•••.••.•.•• Assistant Copy Editor ALFRED H. Kl.:-.IGON '53 .................... Assistant Feature Editor HERBERT L. HlLLEH. '52 .....• , . • . . . . . • . . . • • . . . . • . Exchange Editor HOWARD BRODY '52 ...................... , ......... Exchange Editor ROBERT SILVERMAN '53.,., .•.......... Assistant Business Manager CURTIS BATES '53 ................... Assistant Circulation Manager ll.El' Olll.I!EE.S Peter Adler, Marvin Boris, Herbel't Guston, Richart! Heimann, Gary Katz, Lewis Klein, Eliot Loshak, Martin Portnoy, Arthur Rosenfeic.l, Stewart Robinson, \Valter Salm, Alfred Scott, Donald Simmons, David Smith, Irwin Gertzog, HedJert Willlams, Paul Gilbert, Donald Mohr, Frederic Morris, Walter Tower, Roger Feinstein. BUSINESS STAFF Joseph Allen, Robert Beck, Lawrence Greenberg. CIRCULATION STAFF J. Lowell Davis, Joseph Martin, James Fltmaurlca, Richart! Borst, David Gregory, Gerardus Jameson, Richard Lewis. A Rare Occasion Distinguished guests are not a rarity on campus, but the visitors who wiU begin arriving tomorrow are among the most important ever assembled here. The occasion is the second annual Parents Weekend. Sponsored by the Delphic Society, the weekend ranks as one of the finest student-directed affairs held here. What proved to be a pleasing· innovation last year should be an affair of even greater magnitude this year. This is a tribute to the Delphic Society. To them we owe a vote of thanks. To the families of Union Men we profer a hearty welcome, with the hope that they find their stay here a very interesting and enjoyable one. -J. J. c. Curtain Going Up? The Student Council acceptance of a report from the committee investigating the Mountebanks may be some of the best news in the line of campus activities so far this year. There is a group on campus, theh· power delegated by the Student Council, ready to take steps for the reorganization of the dramatics group. Now is the time for the harangues to cease and, giving full consideration to the investigators' report, it is also the time for those who have a real interest to show their true colors. There have been two letters In \Concordiensis\ recently on the subject of \Mountebanks!' from one group of interested individual's. These students make two points, both, it seems to me, of :very ques- tionable validity and ethics. They say, in effect: \1) that the standard set by the director is too high, In their pri- vate opinion, and (2) that the :personalities of the director and \the \h!!ird core around him\ are incompatible with those of themselves, and, I imagine, some of their acquaintances, si·nce they presume to ma.ke a campus issue of tl:).eir tastes. To the first point I should say this is the democratic spirit In its mast degraded and dang~rous form. Their argument is that if some members of the dramatic group, in- cludir.g the director who will be re- sponsible both to the college and to the paying public, feel under an obligation to work for, and are capable of effecting a high stand- ard of production, they can be legitimately shouted down numeri- cally by others who are less serious and hard-working, and who wish only to dabble casually in theatre work. Surely the latter type of person, if he has any reason or sense of proportion at ,.,all, ought to e2Jpect to be a minor assistant and not a major influence in the group. Such persons would be bettet' advised to stick to charades at a fraternity party. They also overlook the very cen- tral question of talent. In .all theatrical ventures one or two people will emerge with more na- tural aptitude than others for de- signing, acting, etc. Are the ideas of such people-upon which the success of the production wi'll largely depend-to be subordinated to those of the casual crowd whose main asset is strength of numbers? is this not a monstrous distortion of the democratic principle'? They also arrive, by some quaint logic of their own, at the conclu- sion that stressing \professional- ism\-which is their misnomer for those high amateur standards that should naturally be aimed at- \abandons the tl.ims <if a small col- lege.\ This, I take it, means that a small college ought to have a deliberate policy of mediocrity, and implies that high . standards go along only with large numbers and sheer bulk. Surely this an another fallacy. Their second point is bound up with the question of leadership, If the group resents having an over-all director, and feels that a theatre can function effectively without one, it is laboring under a most puerile misconception. And even if, as they flatly state, th~y personally cannot work harmoni- ously with the director in the off- hand manner which seems to be I am convinced they do not realize the gravity of their charges. It is significant that when, during the production of \.Angel Street,\ people interested in the theatre were invited and ex:pected to par- ticipate, not one of the letter- writers condescended .to do so. One euspects that they have ambitions to be \all or nothing,\ and that their theoretical grievance and splenetic huff mean more to them than their inteJ'est in an actual production-or is it that they will re-enter the theatre only on their own terms? May I comment finally that this group of metaphysical meand!lrers, both by their loquacious attitude and too easily wounded pride, seem -to be -con(!lusively demonstrating their peculiar unsuitability to play a successful part In the essentially practical and unsentimental world of th:e theatre. Yours from the diabolical depths of my vitriol bottle, JAMES BALNEAVES Writers Call For \Balanced CoUege\ , To The Editor of Concordiensis: With the addition of the new mechanical engineering depart- ment, once again Union has ex- panded its facilities and educa- l.ional possibilities. But it has been many ye!lirs since a new course, better yet a department, has been added in the fine arts.· - For :y;ears the only member of the art department was one· pro- fessor acting as teacher and de- partment head. It has been too long a time since ·a professor of creative art has been a member of the faculty. Only visiting~ art- ists have come to Union from time to tjme. For instance, only a few weeks ago Dr. George Rickey visited the campus. The student attendance and enthusiasm at his demonstrations conclusively shows that a man of -similiar interests and capabilities is definitely needed. By no means should this man just be an artist. There are many fields in which he might teach. Design, interior decoration and sculpturing, as well as drawing and liberal arts will not only have an · · outlet for creative abilities but I wish ·to take exceptjm'l t(l soma also a new field in which to gain of the statements made concern- knowledge. Furthermore, we feel ing: \The Flying Dutchman.\ in that, if this plan is accepted, no the first place, 've are not mimeo- time should. be lol3t in carrying it graphed. A minor .point to be Sl;tl'e• out, Although we are l'ooking to- but the multilith process we use wards the future, we too woul-d gives .!Jetter .reproduction .. I realize, like to have the .opportunity to though, that you .people arE: less take .part in creative ·classes. familiar with the publishing- as- We sincerely hope that the .Adc pects of -the newspaper field. ministration and the Trustees will \The· Flying :Outchman\' does not look into the proble~ thoroughly intenq to rival the Concoi,dy for and act favorably. Let us try to circulation. Essentially, we are :a make Union a \balanced college\ house organ. Matters· concerning again. the Air Force .and: the .AFRO'l1C Sincerely yours, ALEXANDER MAC CORMICK GEORGE CARTER PAUL J. WOODS DANIEL SIESEL ROBERT LOVE unit here at Union. are .(lur baili- wick. We dO not . Consider it OUr duty to report on. general college ~unctions as that seems to be your primary concern. I :mlg:ht add,. tqough; that we did scoop you on Pete Tierney making an new N.R.A. record. l might caution you .people on reading things a little closer before ~ y«>u comment on ·them. · The edi- torial policy is, among other things \reporting what is ,planned to h!\.p~ pen,\ not \what 'is· going to hap.- _pen/' as you said, Praises ·Courage Of IFC President · To The Editor of Concordiensis: When I heard tha.t the result· of -the last vote of the :):nter-Frater· nity Council was nine to nine -on the issue of full term deferment of freshman rushing, I was afr~d that the Student Council was again· going to have to debate the whC>le thing and draw the pr-evailing state of indecision out still further. But, when Bob Hochuli, President of the I.F.C., voted to break the' tie in favor of deferment until term two, my emotiens were two-fold~ First, I was relieved that we had at last reached a decision which would probably stick, since it 'vas made by th~ fraternities. Second· ly, I greatly appreciated Mr. Ho- chuli's courage in taking the stand he did. This issue has aroused strong feeling on both sides, and for a man to place himself O'Qt in the open and make ·an important decision Dn the basis of principle shaws courage which we sadly lack in our student government. If more people would take stands on issues, here and elsewhere, more points of view would be ex·pressed and, perhaps, approved. Mr. Hochull's courage deserves the prail3e of us all, and I hope his decision will receive the support of all concerned. If it does not, nothing will have been gained, and a very great deal lost. Sincerely, EUGENE UND_!J:RWOOD . --·;::::: -~~~::::·;;~-1· American Foods , LUM FUNG Restaurant BEST LIQUORS AND COCKTAILS Broadway Phone 6.;9595· In closing, don't 'worry about .us ·Concordy, we don't intend. to rival' you for circulation, ('Why worry ·about that-we a:re both handouts any-way) Ol' for ad-vertising. Like you, our intention Is to J)Ut a little m()re life into the student body. Yours truly, . WILLIAM GRAVES EDIIJ.'!OR'S NOTE--Our ~pologies t«> the \Flying Dutchman\ for 'tile -gross inaccuracies that appeared -In the last issue of the COncordiensls cDncernlng the ROTO publication. The statement about cii'culation was not meant in a ser-ious vein. T·HE GREATEST SHOW ·ON EARTH FOR MEN ONLY Paul Henrled Big Trees •Kirk Dougla; The agitation on the Mountebanks question has grown to· a fever pitch, if one is to believe the letters to the editor that have appeared in our columns recently. It is time for those 'vriters to show that they weren't merely verbalizing. For Your Information We think the committee has made a fairly accurate study, but only time will tell. Working on the consideration that changes were in order, they have drawn up a list which will maximize student participation and equate the amount of time contributed by members of the theatrical activity. However, as pleasing as these changes are, we are happy to see that the investigators haven't overlooked many of the facets of the old system. Regardless of the system, the Mountebanks did produce fine drama. Perhaps that is where the fault lies, too much stress on attaining a high level of production, without considering the means by which this peak was attained. We want, we relish good theater. But let caution be the byword. A group in rebirth cannot be expected to start off with the level of theater which they maintained before their denouement. However, if some concessions must be made in quality, they should be made only if the continuance of the dramatic society is at stake. The function of college theater seems to be the essential question here. We feel that it is primarily a chance for the students to gain experience in the play production field, and only secondarily an attempt to provide a presentation of standards above the college level. If too much stress is placed on the latter, the result is a survival of the fittest situ- ation. To all practical purposes the amount of student participation is limited. By suffering the less talented ·to fall by the wayside, the Mountebanks will cease to be a true student activ,ity. In the recommendations of the investigating committee, the spirit of ke€ping the Mountebanks a student-directed affair is emphasized. Upholding these principles will do much to assure the continuance of active campus. theater. With the completion of the survey of what was ailing and what was needed to remedy the problems, it seems evident to us that the fate of Mountebanks is now in the hands of the students. Let the champions -of the return of drama to Union now step forward. The time is ripe, but the chance of failure is still great. The primary consideration is the renewal of a strong Mountebanks, not presenting a play as soon as possible. -J. J . .c. SATURDAY, APRIL 19 - PAR- ENTS' WEEKEND (Sponsored by Delphic Society). Registration Stu- dent Lounge, 8 a.m. to 1 p.m.; Visits to classes and laboratories and EE Open House, 8 a.m.-noon; Visits to Colleg:e Bookstore, 1-3 p.m.; Activities Office open and WRUC conducted tours, 1-5 p.m.; Varsity Tennis, Union vs. Stevens Institute, 1:30 p.m.; Varsity La- Crosse, Union vs. Hofstra, 2:30 p.m.; Baseball, Union vs. Syracuse, 3:30 p.m.; Informal discussion with President Davidson, MC, 5-6 p.m.; Coffee Hours with Faculty Mem- bers, Hale House, 8-9 p.m. Union College Glee Qlub Concert, MC, 9 p.m. SUNDAY, APR. 2o-Sunday Serv- ice, Preacher, Dr. C. P. Schedd, Yale Divinity School, \Faith for Revolutionary Times,\ MC, noon. MONDAY, APR. 21-Daily Assem- bly, The Prom Committee, MC, noon; Board of Managers, Hale House Lounge, 7 p.m.; Glee Club Rehearsal, OC, 7 p.m.; Philoma.- thean Parlamentary Debate, OC, 8:15 p.m. Resolved: That the U. S. Govt. Should Adopt a Program of Federal Aid to Education, Prof. William M. Murphy and Eliot Lo- shak, and Dr. Carter Davidson and Norman Scull. TWO POINTS CHAPEL CREDIT. Public cor- dially invite.d. TUESDAY, APR. 22-Daily Assem- bly, Louis Untermeyer, poet, MC, .noon; Alliance Francaise, OC, 8 p.m. WEDNESDAY, APR. 23- Varsity LaCross(!, Union vs. Dartmouth at Schenectady, 3:30 p.m.; Varsity Tennis, Union vs. Middlebury at Middlebury, 3:30 p.m.; Varsity Baseball, Union vs. Rochester at Rochester, 4 p.m.; Glee Club re- hearsal, OC, 4:30 p.m.; COLLEGE LECTURE, Louis Untermeyer, Poet, MC, 8 p.m. TWO POINTS CREDIT FOR STUDENTS. Public cordially invited without charge. THURSDAY, APR. 24 - SELEC- TIVE! SERVICE DRAFT TEST Chern. Lab. 201; Daily assembly; Dr. Louis Untermeyer, MC, noon· Cosmopolitan Chib and League of Women V'Oters Hlgh,,School Con- ference, OC, 2-4 p.m.; Mohawk Scientists and Engineers, Physics Laboratory, 8 p.m. FRIDAY, APR. 25-Daily .Assem- bly, Recital, Dr: E. A. Tidmarsb, MC, noon; Prize Day .Awards must be .in Dean's Office; Varsity Golf, Un10n vs. Sampson Air Force Base at Sampson, 1 p.m.; Graduate Council (Ex, Committee) Presi- dent's Office, 7:30 p.m. Placement News . The Interviewers between this date and May 8 offer opportunities for salesmen il). wholesale building materials, metal-cutting tools, build- ::~~::~;;:~~· locks, insurance, and Sargent and Company, second largest manufacturing concern in New Haven, lists six types of posi\ tions for engineers and five for Libera] .Arts grad.uates, including customer relations, personnel, and purchasing. .-- United .Drill and Tool Corp. offers a course leading to a job in the sales division. This company. Is large enough \t() ju~tify scientific management and sa.les practices, yet ~mall en.ough to permit the trainee to get a comprehensive grasp of overall operations.\ Some of our visitors during ·the next three weeks carry names well known to students: The Grand Union Company, The Western Union Company, Lockheed, etc. On the basis: of a name it is hard to se1ect or discard a fi:rm. Come in and read what they say .for their organizations and what they inay offer for your careev. SCH.ENE()TADY. N,Y. ·~?'~\'\f~~~E'!' GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FAC:UL TY' ·- .... ~ .. - SJ!I -·\\!! ;... .... \\' ~ : Serving Union's Men I 1 For·Years ; ;. See your agent on Campus I I UNITED : I I I CLEANERS 1 Patton & Hall . : TAILO:RS I X-RAY FITTING ··I Phone 4-5676 I 'I 4 S ' 1 24/:i state st.--since 1895 : · I I . tate St. ne_,r Ferry ·I Jy,~ ........ --- ...... ,.,.- .............. ---' .I.------ .. ---- '\!I-· L. I. BALFOUR 00. Fraternity Jewelers BADGEs • RINGS \ FAVORS' . i, JEWELRY LEATHER GIFl'S STATiONERY • PROGRAMS OLlJB PINS - HEYB MEDAlS - TROPHIIllS Write or call CARL . SORENSaN VICTORIA Restaurant Specializing in Italian Food;s Jay St~eet (Por. Union) FRII Eve 13evera I tnh: to sa~ about .spring footba Co1 mel'St held i S<lJ1ml day a: repori look good. few iJ go in( ly to outs O;Lot tuall~ gradt years :WeJ made erans sad : pecte lin em day, trans aren'· to sc pier the and. veter seas6 Un· tiona new team stole tiona socia wood tiona scorE an j throt will past are 1 N(J open .open Willl en co tougj this we 1 so tl fqes Tl: theil Dut< stra risl:r: of 13 offe etic1 seas Tl face not asf are higl la<il! moi: a .b den don lose dur I ot frm goe IM· pJiE Y01 Whl the ~g yo11 it the Is 1

s s ' I I • I I I I I I ,I ·I FRIDAY, APR·IL 19,. 1952 ................. ...... \'\' Snl)de Remarks By Bill Snyder ......... _.....,..,..t. ·.Gamet Will Face Orange Af Home Even though wb are faced with · By Sonny Q-ertzog ~e~~~~ 0 !~n~:Ou1~~~tet~\~:eek, The Union College baseball team will open its home to .say · season. tomorrow afternoon at 3:30 p.m. on Alexander Field 3 Bob Goflburn· Lacrosse Team Meets Hofstra·in First Game By Paul Gilbert . 'The season for the Garnet stickhandlers officially opens · tomorrow afternoon at 2 :30 p.m., on Library Field, when . Coach Frank O'Brien unveils his 1952 edition aga-inst the · Flying Dutchmen of Hofstra College. ~----------------------------- about the cur·rertt ·when 1t faces a strong Syracuse contingent. Art Lawrence, .spring practice ., G~rnet mentor, wm start pitcher Jim Hogan, wi:th Glenn l!Jnion '51 Victor fo~t:~~ h Ha . . Kmns and BiU Booth in reserve. Last year, Union defeated Hof- Union '11' Starts Spring Grid Drills mer&trom's Lineup· Set ~·---~---------- stra by a 12-9 count. Overcoming held its Behind the plate for Union will w•n• 3 U • 2 a first half lead, the Garnet finally s()rj.mmaga be ·sophomore Dicit Henry. Big Bill 1 Jams ' UlOil won out in an overtime thriller. day and, ftoin B~oomfield will start at first, with· MY~f~. 11 2b .......... ~~ 1 { ~ P~ t On the basis of t·he Spring prac- reports, thin ~tck Mu!).rO, Teddy Caldes, and Waters,, 3b . : ........ 4 1 2 1 3 Herb Hufnagel chalked up six tice sessions, Coach Hammerstrom I o o ked Jrmmy Waters rounding out the Harris, -If .••.•....... 4 0 1 2 0 markers to pace the squad. wiil determine which of the hold- good. infield. Patroling the outer .pas- Depuyt .. rf · · · · ....... 3 0 2 1 0 Speavheading the attack again overs and candidates will be in- few positions a.re tures Union will see Bill Harris in ~~g~~:~~ld.' .. 1 .~.::::::: ~ ~ ·~ ·~ ·~ · will be veteran standout Herb Huf- vi ted back for next fall's practice. going to be -rough mam- left, Gene SchWartzman in center Schwartzman, cf .... 3 ·o 2 o o nagel, a constant scoring threat, Even though there will be seven- ly to .the .graciua.tio:n of such stand- and Hobie Depuyt in right. Cald!JS. ss ............. 4 0 0 0 2 flanked by Ben Thelin and either teen returning lettermen, Hammer- outs as Randy oram, Gerry Last year, Union trounced the jiarrrgg, P • · · · • · · · ... · 3 0 1 I, 4 Tony DeBello or Dick Heimann, strom wi.J! have many positions to O'Loughlin. and 'Jim s 1 Orange 10 t 4 · th · ogan, P '· • · · ·' • • · · · 1 0 0 0 0 flashy ·goalie who has been con- f'll b f th' t d t ... a erno. Ae- o , m e opemng Totals . , ............ 33 2 Q 24 12 2 1 ecause o tr een gra ua es. tually, we weren't hit as harli by· game, and the Syracu:'>e co.ach, Ted Williams- AB R II PO A E · . verted to -an attackman this year. Returning backs will be Dick graduation as we b.ave 'been In past Kleinhans, is anxious to retaliate· Dodrlsiey, cf_ · · · · · · · · · · · 2 0 ; 0 ° 1 2 . 0 ° 0 ° At midfield·, O'Brien plans to start Nemeth, Jesse Dickson, Tom (Ham- .· · t · . A < us, cf • • · • · · • · · • · 2 ° Bill S d B'll H. 11 nd C t years. m no uncer am t~rms. Kleinhans Callaghn, 2b ••..••... 4 o 1 4 4 1 Photo •by Forman ny er, 1 a a ur bruno, Len Klingberg, Bill Snyder, :Wext fall we should field a squad has not yet named his starting a•M!ller · · · · · · · · · · · · · O O 0 0 0 0 Senior · Bob GodbUl'll. will Bates. All are returning players John Sh.ade, Don Reed, and Fred made up mainly· of seasoned vet- pitcher but a good guess would .MSul~van. 2b · · ·' · · · · · 0 0 0 0 0 0 handle the goldie duties for. who saw considerable service last ;Davies. At the ends are Paul Long, b . B ' k R h . . a ar, lf , ..... , . . . . . 2 o o o o o season erans fro111 our last campaign. One e uc -y· oc e: Roche carned·''DePopolo. c .......... 2 1 ·1 8 1 o Frank O'Brien's varsity Ia- · Elly Harp, and Dick Havill, with sad pate, though, was the unex- the brunt of the pitching burden Klein, rf . · ............ 3 O 0 0 0 0 crosse .team dut•ing the coming Defense Strong Joe Canale and Ed O'Meally at pected departure of one our best last year and turned in some brH- ··Creer •. 3 b ' · • · · • · · · · • · 4 0 0 1 0 1 season. tackles, and Ray Folino, Joe 1 . t f F h Phil. Hawkms, ss ......... 4 l l 1 t 0 On the defense, which should be linemen, in the person of B!U Fri- tan per ormances. res man · Callahan, lb ........ 2 o o 10 o 0 the Garnet .forte, will be Gene ·Guerra, Bill Rudolph, and Bob day, lost this past term V·ia the: Young will put on the tools behind· Puffer, P ............ 3 1 1 ·0 5 I s T h H ErickS0n, Bob Hass, co-captain of. Hochuli at the guards. transfer route. Let's hope the..,e the plate. First ·base a problem Totals · · · · · · · · · ... · · 28 . 3 4 27 11 3 · t·evens 'ec . ' ·ere The biggest spot to fill will be •· th k '. a-Ran for Callaghn m 7th. last year's squad, and either fresh- aren't any mo1•e losses, or those due now · at Jac Baldwm has grad-. Union .... , ..... , ....... 200 :000 000-2 man Jess Dickson, who has made in the center of the line due to to scholastic deficiencies. A hap- uated, will see ·eithet· Don Car- Williams . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ooo 100 20x-3 Fo·· ·r Tenm\ S Match great strides in his first year of the loss of Jim Salerno and Paul P ier thought, I might add, Wl\ll be penter or Rae Wiseman. Capt. Stan REI-Hawkins, Puffer, Callaghn · : · ; · · ' ' 1 Carbone. Randy Oram and Jerry S . ; 2B-1'1Iunro, Depuyt. 3D-Hawkins, Be- p ay, or Jack Stroud, substitute de- the returning of Dick Nemeth . wanson and Lou Amico Will puyt. s~Callahan. BB-Of:f Puffer 4, Stevens Institute will be fenseman last year. Net-tending O'Loughlin will be sorely missed and Joh;nny Shade. Both of these handle the keystone 13ack, and Ray· Cat•rigg 4, Hogan 1. SO-BY Puf_fer 6, · th d t f chores will be handled by Bob God- at the ends also. veterans were unable to play last . Farr will guard the hot corner .. ~a~rifgni 5g, s ~)1~gnan2.o ~o11>as.,.i'ffen 4. . e secon. opponen or burn. According to O'Brien, God- Hammerstrom is still desirous season due to ser.ious injuries. Jack Marchel, a speed merc.hant ·~Y- Lgse~-darr!gg. · · · ·- - C-oach Pete Nistad's fresh- burn has tbe req,uisites for becom- of having men who are interested U i li on the bases, and a fine slap httter, . man laden tennis squad, to- ing an excellent goalie. The coach in playing football come out fm• n.on ··as recently received na- will be in -right. Center field will th t\ · tion-' acclaim ·n c t\ 1 . morrow afternoon at 1 :30 claims Bob clears ve!·y well, pos- e prac tce sess1.ons. '\\' · ~ a ompara tve Y. be covere.d .by Fred Serley, a power K t E. t u • new fl .eld of d it \fl , e z · xpeC S · DlOll Th\ '11 b th c nd sesses quick reflexes, and is ex- en eavor- s r1 e hitter, who has: not yet shown his · ·. . · p.m. lS Wl · e e se 0 · team. Pete Tierney, a ,freshman, true ·ability and figures to come T D R h t home match of the two day- tremely fast. stole Individual ·honors at the sec- into his own thiS year. Left field, . 0 own oc es ·er old season for the Dutchmen, Hofstra will have a big edge in tlonals of the National Rifle As-· the \biggest problem on the club that they already have seven games sociation matches held at Ridge- before the season began, will prob-· Coach Bill Ketz feels that his who clashed rackets with under their belt, and should be over wood·, by establishing a new na- ably be covered by Don Althouse. track team is a good :bet to beat Brooklyn Poly today. those early season jitters. tiona] record in prone-firing. He Althouse, a freshman, can run and. Rochester's track and field men in COurts Washed Out The Dutchmen have a nine game scored a perfect 200, followed by hit and may very well solve Klein- tomorrow's opene11. The c!ndermen slate, five at home and four on an extra 67 consecutive rounds han's worries. wel'e all set for the meet when As the tennis season got under- the road. Dartmouth, Hobart, al- through the bullseye, 'the mark they left on the tri-p this afternoon, way, Nistad faced two major prob- ways ·strong, and Cornell highlight will not become official until the Close Opener ·and Coach Ketz was confident !ems. Rainy weather al1owed his the schedule, as well as the contest past books arid records of the NRA. On Wednesday the Dutchmen about the prospects. players only about four days of against Union's traditional rival, are further investigated. . bowed to a Williams nine at Lou Muller and Geor.ge Batkie- real outdoor practice prior to to- the Engineers of R.P.I. Now to get 'baclt to the season' WilliaJp.stown, :by a score of 3 to 2. wicz will:'be throwing the javelin, day's match. The milder weather, Coach Howard Myers, former openers. We had the ba.seball team. The Union men jumped on pitcher Bill Mayer will be in the broad- ·particularly in the New York area, Johns Hopkins coach now in his Mike Puffer and with the aid of jump, and Bob Murray will be do- has allowed the Poly and Stevens . third season at Hofstra, rates Joe ·;~~~::::; :e~~:t 1 \:' :a=: a thrbwing erro; by the Wi1liams ing the high jumping duties with teams to get in a few' weeks of Masone, a freshman, as the squad's encounter vvlth, perhaps, their second sacker, cbalked uP a quick Lee Michalsky. Ketz took Ed practice before meeting their first best attackman. Dan O'Brien and toupst game, that with Syracuse, two run advantage. Williams count- O'Meally and Bill Morris for the opponents. Jack Graham, last year's leading this Saturday. It ·seems a shame ered with a run in the fourth as a shotput event, and. Len Klingberg· The bigger problem facing Coach scorer, are .the other big men on we couldn't. ar:range Ollr schedule result of two walks and two infield should be a winner in the pole-· Nistad is the fact that this year's the Flying Dutchmen's forward 80 that we could meet our toughest outs, and two more markers in vault. Batkiewicz will probably sq·uad will have only one or two wall. fqes later in the sea. son. the seventh on two singles, a double in the discus, throwing with returning players, Due to other Myer's defensemen will be led .passed ball, a sacrifice and an in- Tom Giambruno. · activities, Captain Oscar Grusky by Vin Vieten, a junior, and Jim The ·lacrosse team will also have field out. Williams managed to Dolan and Clough :Milers will not be competing at all this Shuart. Shuart is one of Hofstra's their hands full -in playing the garner only four hits, but the three The Garnet will be counting on (Continued on Page 4) co-ca:ptains for this season. Dt;ttcht'neil of Hofstra ·College. Hof- run!il in the ·column that ·counts Kiwis an.d Trotter in the sprints· ....... u ....... a ........................... ; ....................................................... :.· stra Is probably one of the fastest was enough, ·and John Larkin in the half mile· rising small colleges in the world Leading tl:ie Union attack was event. M;udry may run tliat mid- ~! sports today, and will certainly Ho.bie Depuyt with a double and dle distance event with Larkin, and • offer a rough hurdle In the Garnet a triple. Gene 'Schwartzman and Wooster, a freshman, is the likely· etickmen's bid for a successful Jim Waters also contributed two: candidate for the 440. Dolan and .hits. Gar! Clough should set the pace in There i!l· one problem we are Carrigg St.Q.rter the mile and two mile events. faced with this Spring which can- Jim Carrigg started for the· It will be Murray and Michalsky • not be solved oft the playing. field. DutChmen and went seven full in the high hurdles a.nd Murray, • :/~~n~~:nr::tl~h:~r~~~:!i~:i~~ ~~~~!~ J:~~f;g ~~~~;k ::r fi~e -!~ ~~~~~!~1~ ;::n:n;e~=dh:~~e:.r~~~ .-~.:-:=:_:_· p r i n t e r s : high degree of ·student apathy or walked four during his seven Union ooach looks for a number - : lack of student spirit. Nothing is inning stint. lie pitched commend- ~f first place points fl•om his in- : more detrimental to the moraie of .able ball aitd .shows definite in- dividual stars, but Is worried about a .team than to feel that the stu_, dications of a good season regard- the depth of his team in several : dents, whom the teams represent, less of this first setback. of the events. • : season. GAZETTE PRESS • Watc:hes, Jewelry Clocks R.epaired e Engraving, too! ay Jewlery Co. don't care whether they win or .: ...................................... ,; ................................... ,. ....................... ~ :~ ~i;~!~ sNOTr REST AuoRANT AND SA BAR% ·. · §Jlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIII~=== from such actions. The old saying For Quick 1 ake-out Orders Call Sch.-6-9766 goes, \a friend In need is a. friend Raw, Steamed Clams y: Sp t bld~.\ This can easily be ap- w·o 0 s plied to the teaiils here at schooL ••Meet and Eat at EDOI_E'S,. . . . == You shoUldn't g!J .t& the games just when the team ls winhlng, bUt all 647 Not+ St., opposite Green Gate Schenec:tacly, N. Y, = · === :::~e!: :~~~a.ca:r~ ~e s=.' MEAL TICKETS......$6.75 for $5.00 . Dor \lTO·Ur ·E· n' ioymen t.l == you 'W1li be titer~ to offer tt. '.l'hlnk 1· 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E~~~~~~~~~~ L' ~ L 4 'J It over and see If we can't alter I i ;;;;;; the situation before any more harm = is done! a storeful of F i n·e Gif ts to send home A Good Name is more to be desired than riches •• ·. and in the purchase of fine jewelry in this area, perhops no nome commands more confidence than G1·aubart & Sons. The name Graubart has b~come the answer wh11n one is seeking a fine DIAMOND . . . or an occasiOnal piece of iewelry as a gift item. Visit this fine store whsn you ore jswelry minded. 166 J\AY STREET·· Opposi~e Mohican For Drinf<s and Wonder·ful Hammond Organ Music Jt•s ·~- · a . THE VAN CURLER TAP ROOM = = ~ : = And for a Late .snack It's ~ = . . : THE' VAN CURLER COFFEE SHOP • = = u•••••a•••••••••~•••••••••••••••••••••••n•••u•••.t•••••••••••~•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••n••••••••o••••••• - = = both open 'till 12. A. M. = .·- <lll&illl~•••••••••••••~•••lll•••••••llttlllll•••••i••n•llian••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••'IIIIIIIIIIIIIIWIIIIIIIII••••n•••••••••• = •• ·= === L---------------------------...-~: iiiilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllifii

- fR:II):AY, A:PRII,. 18. 1962 4 Look Ma; Look Pa 'Life' Nixes Cohn's Offer New Program f Dormitory Reservations Request cru•!is f()r Dm•mitory a, StU<ien.ts living. at home or in ~ The Dean's List for the Ad-~·------,..----.~--- Interim marking period end- ing March 21, 1952 has been released by Dean G. William Huntley. 250 students who 1·eceived an index of 3.000 or better and had no more than one mark as low as G were named to the Dean's List, and excused frGm the absence rule. The class of 1952 placed the most men on the list, 82. Milham Jr., Constantine A. Neuge- Life Magazine has turned down bauer, Karl Reinitz, Robert M. an invitation by Jay Cohn, senior Richter, Henry V. Schaad Jr., Peter class president, to attend com- E. Schlein, Richard Schuldenfrei, mencement exercises in June and Martin L. Schulman, Joseph G. cover the activities for their maga- Schultz, Norman E. ScuU, Marcus zine. CLASS OF 1952: Leigh F. Ben- ner, Henry P. Bernhard, H0ward L. Brody, Donald M. Braverman, Bruce A,,Campbell, Charles H. Car- penter, Clayton G. Carter, Edgar F. Chandler, Jay N. C0hn, Heusten Collingwood, William S. Conway, Philip M. Currier Jr., Richard A. DeMott, Foster P. Doone III, Max P. Dreyfuss, John H. Duffy, Ray- mond J. Fabian, Alan S. Flshbone, Leroy E. Foley Jr., Donald G. Fors- berg, S. Bruce Franklin, David W. Frost, Jerome Gartner. *Harry M. Gehman Jr., Gerald G. Geismar, Richard A. Genthner, Robert S. Griswold, DonaJd L. Guertin, Roger W. Hancher, Dana B. Hanford, Walter E. Hanson, Robert I. Haas, Charles W. Her- man Jr., Herbert L. Hiller, •Keith A. Hitchins, Jewell W. Horning, Charles H. Hufnagel, Bruno Jasel- skis, Reuben D. Johnson, Fred S. Kantor, Jerome 0. Klein, Myron Komar, Peter W. Kratz, Robert A. Laudise. Alfred Leszczynski, Robert J. L. Sheobe, Charles H. Speirs, Her- Cohn wrote Life several weeks bert L. Spira, Eng Heng Tan, An- ago, describing the events Which thony .P. Tartag1ia, Armon H. Too- take .place during the weekend, and majian, Richard V. Webb, Daniel urging that magazine to cover L. Weiner, Donald H. Zenger. (47) · them as \typical\ of sma11 college CLASS OF 1955: Leslie H. Bern- graduations. stein, Marvin B0ris, Richard S. \Life'• Letter Refuses Borst, Arthur S. Brenner, pavid A letter was received this week T. Case, Paul S. Cassedy, Edward from Joan Felix of Life, thanking J. Connor, Thomas F. Corrigan, Cohn 'for his inte1·est and invita- Jesse H. Dickson, Lloyd Fa:llowes, tion, and expressing the regret of Arthur I. Feldman, Vincent F. the editors that they would not be Guerra, Kenneth B. Haefner, Karl able to attend. The letter said, in F. Hebenstreit, Douglas Houston, part, \ . . . Since commencement Lawrence F. Jenkins, Charles H. weekends vary very little from col- Kanzer, Gary R. Katz, Edward B. lege to c0llege and from year to Landreth. year, we feel that anything we Ronald H. Levine, Philip J. could write about Union's gradua- Lynch, Donald P. McKibbin, Da-niel tion would be much the same as T. Manning Jr., David K. Martin, articles which have appeared in Lee W. Michalslty, John W. Mont- Life and other magazines.\ gomery, Richard H. Page, Carl A. \We .sincerely hope you appreci- Paulscn, John M. Pavkovich, Rob- ate our position,\ the letter con- ert A. Penny, Victor A. Rudowskl, tinued, \and we regret that it is Ralph G. Schilling, Frank J. necessary for us to disappoint you. Sgambellone, Norman Solomon, Ro- Good' luck to you and· the mem- Iand A. Stebbins, John H. Steidl, bers of the class of 1952.\ Francis W. Wise, Van E. Wood, Alan Young. (39) STUDENTS CARRYING LESS THAN 15 HOURS: Thomas F. Donlon, Marvin Englehardt, Daniel Fritz Jr., *Davis W. Griffith, Don- ald C. Halstead, Douglas M. Jamba, Leo Kuperschmid, A. G. Davis philip, David S. Platt, Richard H. Pollen, Donald E. Schwartz, Mon- roe Silverman, David I. Smith, Charles G. Stewart, Douglas J. Van- Vranken, David Walrath. <16) SPECIAL STUDENTS: Kalevi IC Elections Elections for representatives to the Independent Council will be held in Bailey Hal\ alcove Thursday, April 2ol. Petitions bearing the names of 15 inde- pendents must be in the Student Activities office by Tuesday, April22. On WRUC. Room Reservatiolls for the SEP- fL\\aternity houses. TEMBER, 1!1~2'-FEBRU.ARY, 1953 b. ·M:arried students. Campus radio station WRUC will term will be distribu.ted to dormi- . c. Stuiients excused by Miss inaugurate a new series of fifteen· tory students on M~N:PAY, APRIL Travis who are working for minute programs entitled \Report 21. Other stuclen. ts may obtain·· their rooms. from Europe,\ beginning Tuesday cards from the Business OJ!fice on· d. S1:uden.ts excused by the Bust- April 22. The programs will be. that date. .n.ess Of·fice. presented every Tuesday a,nd. These reservation cards are to be: Mar:ried .students, students living Thursday from 7-7:15 p.m. and· returned to J'ili.ss Fleming] in the; at bome or in' fraternity houses,are Wednesday from 7:15-7:30 p.m. · Business Office l:leg;inning, Wed- exc-used. Otliel' students 'WhO have The series will present a current nesday, ApiU. ~3 ~nd will not be reas~n -ttO be· excused by the :Bust- survey of the general conditions on accepted before: tllat d~te. Room: .ness Office ·or M;iss ·Travis should the European scene. Texts for the' assignments wiJl. be made .begin-' arrange fo~· ·such ·Ilermlsslon before programs have been recorded in· riing Wednesda,y:,. A,pr:il 30. In order ComneJL.cement and notify ·Miss the various capitals of Western· to confirm a re:ser:vation, a $10 de- Ji1lemrng .tn the Business Office. Europe and sent to the United posit will ,be payable within ten Penal-ty for violation of the above States for broadcast. Included in days after actual .notice of room colleg-e rule will be in the amount the series are problems facing Am- assignment. Rooms wiU be as- of one s-emester's double room rent erica's Europea,n allies, coming signed in order .of receipt of the ($Hl0;()0) • from England·, France, Germany, reservation cards. ·Notice . of room· -;..,; .. :::.:;; .. ;;:_:;; .. ;;;. :;:.;;;v:::.-;;:;\;:;_:;: .. ;:;.:::.;:;.:;:. :;;;.:;;.:;:;;-.;;;:;:;;;;:;:;;;;:;:;;::.;:;.,. Holland, Italy, Greece, Austria,· assignment will :b-e made by letter Denmark and Hungary. ·to the student's ·ccHlege address. In another special feature an- Members of f.raternities with nounced by radio station WRUC this week, Louis Untermeyer will Houses wishin,g <:Jormitory rooms be a guest on the \Twenty Ques- in ·blocs will be assigned to South tions\ program, Tuesday evening at College ,in order .o:f -receipt of reser-, vation cards. 8:00 p.m. West ,College will' be a freshmen Summer Dorm Roams , · Students interested in a dor- mitory ro.om foi' surveying or . summer school are requested to register their names with Miss Fleming in the BQsiness Office: as -soon as possible. dormitory. No:rth. ·and South Col- lege wiJ.l be for .soJlhomores, juniors and seniors, · !n accordance with the college· .policy for housing students as set · forth in the ·c:ataiog, all students are .req,uired to live jn the coileg.e · dormitories wi\th the following ex- ceptions': BOOKS BOOKS BOOKS Hist<>ry, 'Literature,. Geology Come in a~d prowl! James c. How9ate 1 Bookseller '128 South Church St. James Restaurant • LA.NGE & 'RAPP PH,ARMACY GOOD FOOD , \Tire College Stude.nfs 1 Dtug Store,. at prices you . can afford. OHEMJCALS _;DRUGS McCoubrie, George E. Martin, Richard C. Mechanic, Donald 0. Meserve, Richard F. Miller, Robert J. Miller, Robert W. Morgan, Ro- sario Negri, Gerald E. O'Loughlin, Donald E. Olsen, Lawrence E. Por- celli, Ralph E. Prusak, Thomas H. Putman, George F. Redington, Lawrence H. Rocltland, Maurice F. Roddy, Arthur F. Rosenfeld, Rob- ert H. Rukgaber, James L. Salerno. Anttila, Erich GansmueUer, Stig B. Gustafson, *Francois M. G. Lamar, Edward A. Laskowski, Charles R. Ma1·kason, George Putman, A. Ger- ald Shapiro. (8) Junior Prom May 2; Buy Your Tickets Now Booth and Fountain Service Cor. Nott Terrace an<I'State Str-eet 426 State Street *Index of 5.000 Edmund R. Sawtelle Jr., Robert ' A. Smith, Robert C. Smith, Stephen G. Steele, James H. Stevens, Wil- liam R. Stoll, Roger W. Story, Owen D. Sutton, Harry E. Taube, John F. Thomas, Eugene Under- wood Jr .. John C. Walsh, Martir. ;J! S. Werman, Edwin H. White Jr., Frederic!{ Wise, Paul J. Woods, Orazio R. Zumbu. l82) CLASS OF 1953: Irwin Barg, Joseph A. Barone. Richard J. Blum, Paul P. Carbone, John J. CasSidy, Raymond H. Chu, Frederick J. Davies, Robert F. Dibble, Robert 0. Dorse, Arthur F. Flatley II, Gerald G. Foster, Frederick W. Frost Jr., Benjamin Furst, Law- rence Greenberg, Oscar Grusky, Charles E. Hallenbeck Jr., Leo A. Halloran Jr., EugPne Halpert. Richard G. Heimann, Edwin B. Hicks, William R. Holzapfel, Earl ·• W. Jer.nison, Alfred H. Kingan, Howard H. Kluth, Charles F. Koch, Anthony E. Lang, Robert M. Lea. Edward L. Lee, Lawrence W. Le- vine, Richard E. Loeber, Eliot Lo- shak, Thomas H. McCabe, Graham H. McCaJll, Robert A. McElroy, Wil- liam F. Meehan Jr., Irving B. Mickey, Howard C. Miller, William F. Mohrmann, Carl S. Monz. Harold W. Moore, Robert F. Mur- ray Jr .. Alexander Parker, Franlt A. Pept>, K<>nnE'th L. Pratt, Richard Relkin, Judah RohE'r, N. EugenP ~chv;,·nrtzmnn. :!\iPlvin A. Shiffmar. David P. S!Pffpnhng-en, Jackson S. ~troud, 1\bmhnm H. Topchlk. Ju!Ps R. VIllE>, David N. Weart, Deibert W<>mplP Jr, Alan R. Winterberger, Ronald T. Woodruff, Frank E. Young Jr. (58) CLASS OF Hl54: Robert E. At- well, Thomas E. Raker Jr., Robert A. Becl{, Arthur E. Cohen. GPorge A. ('ole Jr., William E. Doll, Peter H. Edinger, Jamrg A. Farrell, Ed- ward E. Fre<'mRn. Edward P. Gar- ner, William S. Gemmell, Isak V. Gerson, Joel S. Gitlin, John E. Glennon, Kenneth F. Greenough, Richard W. Henry, *Richard A. Hoffman. Walter S. Hoffman, Joseph C. Honet, Michael A. Kahn, Edward F. KParney, William C. Ketchum Jr., Frank R. Kiwus. Lewis S. Klf'in, Robert F. Kott- man, Richard I. Land Jr .. Joseph C. Loffredo, Jo£'1 E. Mann, Samuel Tennis Match (Continued from Page 3) season. Another blow came with the ineligibility of Pat Lakshmin- arsu. Bob Engles. Union's first man. is a sophomore, with one season's experience and George Exner. who has bPen slow in getting into shape, Is the only other returning player. Engles First Singl!•s Nistad expects to keep Engles in the first sin!;ll•s slot. Freshmen Marty Silver and Joe Guerra are the likely second and third men. Paul \Vhltman and GerrY- Jame- son should be in the four and five positions, with either Chuck Kan- zen or Ettore Mancuso playing sixth singles. Silver and Engles will probably team up for the first doubles team. CHESTERfiELDS ore much MILDER • ,L ADDED PROTECTION of and gwe you tue . . . . 'IF . . ..,,, EASANT AFTER-TASTE NO u ,, rl. owN RESEARCH ORGANIZAT;ION \'FROM THE REPOR.i OF A WELL·KN . OHESTERFAC'l': Ohe»terfieldri Are Made From th e Ri~rht Combination of the W()<:rld.'l Beat Tobaccoi. Vol. 7 1 Pr Br Ot Tex in the will I Junio:t: Frida~ be fe wide l 12:30· morni The Pl.'om througl list of has als will lE \Chatb then J \The 11 Ani: Pearls' Raymo \Seren: with E Miss : Build mond'.e White the E things a new ful.\ At l Prom O'Gra< raphei glossy be $1.1 thenti• for U the b, has h dance: booth. j All wlthir promi many wlthh pro feE beside per.ier c:ontrl COl.' diE local As sched Sing sched row, vised pecte Tic purcl and< . $6.00 fort: ~t 3:1, crciss Le '81 Ed man: mem Apri Sche ager Le · nect He will mail COlli Stro lock Don Zer\ Sc w: fo iiC D ·ia Ol fl( JU a1 tt

Jazz Concert Memorial Chapel Monday 8:'15 P.M. Vol. 79~ No. 2Z Prom Band I Bro·adcast o·ver NBC Tex Beneke and his \Music in the Mood\ Orchestra, who will play at the Bali Ha'i Junior Prom in Alumni Gym Friday evening, May 2, will be featured over a nation wide NBC radio hookup from 12:30-1:00 a.m., Saturday morning. Radio SOngs Listed The program, announced by the Prom committe, was arranged through the courtesy of WGY. A list of the tunes that Tex will play has also been released. The maestro will lead off with a vocal , on \Chattanooga Choo Choo,\ and then Joan Kavanaugh will offer \The Man l Love.\ itamnuil iJuhtlee ltttr .. . rnsts Date Lists Must Be In Tuesday, I :00 P.M. , Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y •• APRIL 25, 1'952 PRICE 10 CENTS \ Nominated for Office Photo by ·Boris John Moses (foreground) is the only nominee for president of the new Student CouncU. Joseph C. Bonet (right) and Norman E. Scull are candidates for the post of secretary. Moses Only Candidate For Council President Taylor, Stewart Rhythms To· Rock Memorial Chapel --------~~~-<t> Memorial Chapel will be the scene, Monday evening at 8:15 p.m., for what is probably the first college-sponsored jazz concert held in the United States. The three hour :pro- gram is free to all and features the Billy Taylor Trio and the Butkiewicz ·Elected to Head IFC Rex Stewart Band. George Batkiewicz of Phi Delta Theta fraternity was· elected president of the 1nter- fraternity Council at the meeting Tuesday, April 22, in' Bailey Hall. Richard Kabat of Delta Phi was elected vice president, and Anthony Lang of Psi Upsilon was selected for the secretary's post. Batklewicz, a junior, .fs a member of the track and basketball teams. He succeeds. Robert Hochull, erstwhile presi- dent, to whom the council gave a· vote ·of thanks and appreciation for the fine job that he turned in during his tenure in office. · Distribute Rushing- Rules Robert Hass, rushing chairman B\ll T l of the IFC, sent rushing rules to _____ I_Y __ a_y_o_r ___ _ all of the fraternity houses, in con- nection with the proposed sixteen Unter· meyer's week rushing period. These are to WGY Will Broadcast Radio station WGY will broad- cast part of the concert from 10- 10:30 p.m. WRUC will carry 50 minutes of the concert from 9 :05- 9:55 p.m. Since the affair is part of the college's regular lecture series two points chapel credit will be given for student attendance. Master of ceremonies for , the show will be John Magnus, a staff announcer for WGY. He has been the announcer on: the Symphony Sid program from New York. Well up on modern .music, he promises a minimum of talk and a maxi- mum of music. Rex Stewart, very familiar un campus, will lead the traditional swing group, which will include Willie \The Lion\ Smith, Munn Ware, Dave Hill and Bob Gilbert. The latter artist, a clarinetist, has made a big name on the west coast with the Castle Jazz Band. An instrumental of \A String of Pearls\ will be followed by Bill Raymond's spotlight rendition of, \Serenade in Blue.\ 'Tex returns with a vocal on \Anytime and Miss Kavanaugh sings \Kiss to Build a Dream On.\ Bill Ray- mond's offering of . \The Little White Cloud That Cried,\ will see the Beneke orchestra terminate things with their arrangement 9f a new MGM recording \S'Wonder-- ful.\ At its Wednesday meeting, the_ Prom committee chose John O'Grady as the official }>hotog- rapher. The price of a 5x7 inch glossy black and white print will be $1.50, O'Gra~y will offer an au- thentic South Pacific , background for the photographs. To en!lance the business and the evening, he has hired a vivacious young hula dancer to \lu~e\ couples to his booth. be filled out and returned next Elections for officers of next year's Student Council will week . so that the IFC can have Tal· k P· leases be staged next Thursday, May 1, in Bailey Hall, it was access to them for the next meet- announced yesterday by David Walrath, president of the ~!s:~ w:~ch t~:: t~~~=~te!r.~f t~: Louis Untermeyer, noted Ameri- contemporary Student Council. tabulated. This will help the IFC can poet, critic and anthologist, Stewart himself has just finished a special engagement in Philadel- phia. A few weeks ago he was the featured soloist at the NAACP con- cert in Madison Square Garden. While there, he thrilled a packed house with his version of \Boy Meets Horn,\ the song that he recorded with the Ellington Band, and which brought him the popu- larity he now holds, Met in caucus ~-------------- · form a better set of rushing rules delighted a large audience in Under the present constitution Camp, and membership in Beta to accompany their new rushing Memorial Chapel Wednesday night, of the Council, this year's repre- Eta Upsilon fraternity. Honet is program. speaking on the topic \The Lighter sentatlves will continue in office present vice-president of the The judges for the Interfratern- Side of Literature.\ The speech and authority until the end of this sophomore class and was recently ity sing which will take place on was the highlight of Mr. Unter- school year. chosen by the Board of Managers Friday, May 2, were also an- meyer's stay on campus which saw as Student Assistant to the Co-or- nounced at the meeting. They are him present two chapel programs, Taylor is Versatile Billy Taylor has a rich back- ground, having authored texts on ragtime, dixieland, bebop and the mambo. He has played with al- most every great name in Jazz, in- cluding Dizzy Gillespie, Stan Getz, Charlie Parker and Oscar Petti- ford. His unit is presently appear- ing at the Club Downbeat in New .York City. Pictures Speedily Printed A. m{)re noreful examination of · k d p lect · lasses and conduct 1'n ~ dinator of Student Activities for Mrs. Vladimir RoJans y an ro- ure m c , - the SC constitution has revea.J.ed f w It w L 1 A p Wl'll formal d1'scusslons Wl·th student.s. next year. essor · a er . ew s. cu that there must be at least two Norman Scull is a Government be awarded by the IFC to the fra- Deals With Humor candidates for the presidency. h · d · · .student from Poughkeepsie, and is ternity that wins t e s1p.g, an • m In his talk Wednesday evening, This news, received at press a m· ember of Kappa Sigma frater- addition, the chosen fraternity will M u t d h' time, will necessitate a new lth th ll Gl Club r. n ermeyer concerne lm- canous for other nominations. nlty. As a two year mel!lber of. appear w e co ege ee · self mainly with- the humor in Further deta.ils ln Chapel, Mion· the Phllorriathean society, his ora.- o American poetry, the basis for tory has been heard in the Parlia- B· .. loodmo bt.le which came in our early frontier day. mentary debate, the mock Albany _ days. He said that such legendary All pictures will be available within ~e week and O'Grady has promised a special effort to get many of the negatives processed within a few hours. He will use a professional Speed-Graphic camera, besides. photo flood lighting. An ex- per.ienced photographer, he has contributed pictures to the Con- cordlensis, The Idol and to the local pape1•s; Selections made by the 1952-53 Assembly, the National tryouts, and figures as Paul Bunyan a.ud Davy council include: for the office of Brooklyn College tournament, in Here M·.ay 8 crockett were the forerunners of president, John Moses; for secre- which Union placed first. Scull is modern American humor. tary, .Joseph c. Honet and Norman a member of lhe Pre-Law society, From there he gravitated to- E. Scull. John Moses has been Publications Board, Board of Man- The Red Cross Bloodmobile will wards comments and short read- designated as the only official can- agers, and the IFC. He was also be at the Hale House mess hall ings from the poetry of Robert didate for president. However, any editor· of last year's Freshman Thursday, May 8 , between 1 o:OO Frost, whom he considers the Appearing with Taylor are sev- eral experienced musicians. Charlie Smith, the drummer, has played with Ella Fitzgerald, Errol Garner, Joe Bushltin and the post-war Duke Ellington Band. Earl May, on bass, is a newcomer to the Taylor group. He is noted for his rine sense of rhythm and his solo abilities. As this issue went to press, the schedule for the Interfraternity Sing had not been posted, · The schedule will be prepared tomor- row, and the houses wlll be ad- vised as to when they are ex- pected to appear. Tickets for the Pr.om may be purchased in the fraternity hoUI~es and dormitories. Bids are priced at $6.00 the couple. The official -florist · for the dance is T. J. King, located ~t 3:1,7 stat!) Street at the overhead crossing. ---o---- Lee Appointed as 'Skeller Manager Edward Lee was elected general manager of the Rathskeller at a membership meeting, Wednesday, April 23. Robert Atwell and Henry Schaad were named business man- ager and secretary, respectively. Lee, a junior from Fairfield, Con- . necticut, was . formerly secretary .. He succeeds John Thomas, who will graduate in June. The re- mainder of the 'skeller's executive council will consist of: Richard Strout,·.David Lent, Chester Blake- lock, Herbert Baker, William Hall, Donald McKibben and George Zervas. Scholarship Notice All students who now hold a. Scholarship or grant-inol!llld and wh'O · wish to have it relnewed for next yea.r must obtain a. • i!Cholarshlp form from the • · Dean;s Office and return it not 'ia.ter than Fridley, May 28• Any- . one who does not now hoid a. schola;rshlp. or grant and would Uke to be considered should also oomplet6 this form and re- . · turn it by May ~s. of the fifteen members of the Record. a.m. and 4 : 45 p.m., to accept dona- greatest living American poet, be- Council is eligible for election to tiona pledged during the recent ing rivaled only by T .. S. Eliot. He The numbers to be played on the WGY broadcast of the show have been announced. Taylor's trio will contribute \Anthropology \Willow office through the write-in ballot HI·c·ks ··Selected a·s . also read from Ogden Nash, who method. · campaign. on campus. was characterized by Untermeyer Currently vice-president of the The schedule for don:attlh'ons bwill as being ail innovator and revolu- Weep for Me,\ \Wrap Your Troubles In Dreams,\ along with three originals, including their theme \Good Grooving.\ Rex Ste- wart's group will draw from \Sweet Georgia Brown,\ \Tin Roof Blues,\ \Panama and \High Society\ for their portion of the broadcast. Delphic Society, station manager New Garnet Editor be sent outb as ts~on as 1 it~s e~n tionary in the field of light verse. of WRUC, and president of Phi prepared Y e comm ee n The final part of Untermeyer's Sigma Kappa fraternity, John Edwin B; Hicks, a junior from charge of bringing the Bloodmobile dissertation consisted of comments Moses numerous other activities In- Granville, was elected to serve as to Union. Parental permission slips on and readings from his own elude a presidency of his sopho- editor of the 1953 Garnet at- a· for minors 'must be turned Into poetry. Outstanding among the more class, a short stint on the recent Publications Board meeting. the committee before April 28 · ' pieces read was \Last Words Be- Concordiensis, and membership on A member of Sigma Chi fra- Each donation will take about fore Winter,\ a commentary on his the Idol staff. He was chairman ternlty, Hicks has been active in 4Ei mln\Qtes Including the medical failure as a gentlemen fanner. Re of the Fall Prom and Is a member the affairs of the Cosmopolitan examination, the actual contribu- concluded with the spoofing. of the of the Spring Prom committee. Club. He will attempt to reor- tlon and the serving of refresh- styles of several poets, one of which Jo~eph Honet, a sophomore pre- ganize the staff of the Garnet. In ments after the blood is taken, If was an ex.cellent satire on the medical student from Albany, N.Y., order to begin the organization classes conflict with the scheduled triteness and banality of Edgar ---- -o~-·~- ~- has J:¥trticipated in the followinl;\' this year, be has. requested any donation, an excuse may be ob- Guest. student activities: membership in students interested i:ti being staff tained at the Dean's Office. Further the Pre-Med Society, the Student. members of the new Garnet, call pledges will be accepted at the Council (two years), Lacrosse (two or contact him at the Sigma Chi Student Activities office until ALCO Adds $5,000 To Original Grant years), counselor at Freshman house. April 28. Philo Debate Favors Aid to Education Monday night, the Philomathean ing speeches. They were followed The negative case was based on President Carter Davidson has announced receipt of a gift of $5000 from the American Locomotive Company to increase its scholar- ship fund. The American Locomo- tive Company Scholarship Fund was originally established in 1918 with a gift of $5000. Since that time the amount of $890 has been added to the principal and the fJ.mded s~holarship now totals $10,890. ~--01--'-- Mountebanks to Meet 0•--- Kappa Alpha Wins Intramural Debate In one of the most closely con• · tested finals in history, Kappa Alpha Society defeated Alpha Delta Phi fraternity to win the annual Intramural debate tournamenf. The finals, help April 14 in Bailey Hall reading room, found two of the three judges voting for Kappa Alpha. Kappa Alpha's team, which was composed of Richard Balneaves and Donald Simmons, reached 'the final round by defeating Sigma Chi and Kappa Sigma, while AD downed Kappa Nu and Phi Delta Theta. Eight fraternities competed for the cup, which was won last year by Psi Upsilon. They did not de- fend the crown. The judges for the finals were Professors Karl M. Society presented the fourth in· by ten minute speeches by Loshak . two main points. First, the nega- their series of annual Parliamen- and Scull. tive held that the Constitution tary Debates on the topic: \Re- In its opening remarks, the af- created a system of checks and solved That The Federal Govern- flrmative stressed the facts that balances in our government. with. ment 'Should Aid Education\. On there is a current shortage of cert&n powers delegated explicitly the affirmative side were Profes- teachers and facilities in the to the states. Among these is con- sor William M. Murphy of the · United States, They held that there trol of education. Secondly, the English department and Eliot\ is an unequal distribution of good negative maintained that the Fed- Loshak of the Philos. President educational fanilities between so- eral Government already has too Carter Davidson and Norman E. called \rich\ and \poor\ states. much power, and federal aid to Scull up}leld the negative. The They showed how New York State education would only increase the . chairman was James Balneaves. ·has managed to distribute its edu- government~s· control over the In• Afiirmative Wins · cational plants equally, and aug- dividual. The ·negative also cited '])he debate was English-style, gested that the same thing should other dangers in federal aid to Schmidt, Erwin von Schlichten and Neal W. Allen, U' A Mountebanks reorganization meeting will be held in the Wash- burn Hall Theater at 7:30 p.m. on the evening of Wednesday, April Concordy Date Lists with the audience divided into .two apply to the entire nation. education. These were the destruc- p arts and seated according to . tion of local interest and the over- which side they favored before the . Direct Grants to Colleges centralization of appointments. debate began. Originally there were As a plan the affirmative wished . Following the opening remarlts 49 on the negative .side and 48 on to have the Federal Government · there w.as · a half hour period of tb affirmative After the lively aid. elementary and secondary questioning and re~at~ks from the d b t the motion was affirmied schools throughout the .states, audience. Dr. Davidson and Prof. be th~ house with a vote of 55-42. while aiding higher education by . Murphy tl).en .summarized the argu- YBoth Dr. Davidson and Prof. d·irect grants to· tbe college stu- menta, a:llter which the final vote Murphy made twenty minute open· dents., we.s taken, 30. All persons interested in creat- COncordiensis date lists, which ing a new Mountebanks are strong- have been handed out to the ly urged to attend this session. It fraternities and to the lndepen- is hoped that at this time .plans dents, must be in the Concordy can be made which will lead to a office no later than Tuesday, thriving Mountebanks for next April 29, at 1:00 p.m., in order year. For further details, call to. insure publication of the Eugene Underwood at 4-1855 and lists. listen for Chapel announcements. 1--------------..J

• 2 ., FRIDAY. APRIL 25. 1952 --------~------------------------------~------------------------------==========~====== OJnurnr Member .Associated Col- legiate Press artd distri- butor of the Collegiate Digest. National Ad,·er- tlsing Representative: Na- tional Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative. 4'20 Madi- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lished. every Friday of the school year. IDd!tor!al Office, Washburn Hall, Union College. Pub- lication Office, T·he Ga- e:ette Press, 334 State St. Entered in the Schenec- tady Post Office as Sec- und Class Mail Matter, subscription 10c a copy: $3 year delivered any- where in the United States. SENIOR BOARD JOHN J. CASSIDY JR. '53 ............................ Editor-In-Chief IRWIN S. BARG '53 ..................................... Sports Editor MONROE SILVERMAN '52 ................... · •..••... Feature Editor ALFRED L. GOLDBERGER '54 .......................... News Editor MARTI~ B. GORDON '51 ................................ Copy Editor HERBERT L. SPIRA '54 .................................. -Copy Editor .A.LAN S. FORMAN '53 ......••................•.. Photography Editor GEORGE J. WRUBEL '53 ............................ Business Manager HORACE VAN VO.AST '52 ....................... Circulation Manager JUN'IOR JIO.A.B.Il MARTIN HAUSER '55 .......................... Assistant Copy Editor ALFRED H. KINGON '53 .................... aaslstant Feature• Ed! tor HERBERT L. HILLER '52 ..•..• , •..••..••.•. , . • . • • • Exchange Editf.lr HOWARD BRODY '52 ................................ Exchange Editor R.OB.El.RT SILVEH.MAN '53 ....•..•.....•.. .Assistant Busine•s Manager CURTIS BATES '53 ................... Assistant CirculatiOn Manager REPORTERS Peter Adler, Marvin Boris, Herbert Guston, Richard Heimann, Gary K'atz, Lawrence Lcviue, Ellut IA.Jshal{, :\lartu1 P~:utnuy, Al'th~r ~os~u­ feld, Stewart Houinson, Ali' I ed O:eott, Donald sun mons, Davttl, :smlth. Irwin Gertzog, Herbert \Vll1Iam8, Paul Uilbert, Do11ald ::liohr, Jo.J·ederlc Morris, \\'alter Tower, Roger l•'einstein. BUSINESS STAJ!'F Robert Becl>, Lawrenl'e Greenberg, Daniel Siesel. CIRCULATION STUll' J. LQwell Davis, Joseph Martin, James Fitrnaurice, Richa:rd Borst, David Gregory, Gerardus Jameson, Rtchard Lewis. More Faculty, Less Tea Parents Weekend reached its climax last Saturday, as some 400 people from all parts of the country traveled to visit Union. One of the highlights of the occasion was to be a faculty tea, at which the parents were to meet the faculty. Most of the parents attended the tea, but, unfortun- ately, so few members of the faculty attended, the affair was anything but a \faculty\ tea. All told, we {ound only three members of the Bailey Hall contingent present. No less than 25 parents asked for certain men, only very re- gretfully to be told that, sorry, they were not present. We, of the Concordiensis, are at a loss to account for the terrible faculty turnout. Many of the visitors promised to write letters to members of the administration com- plaining that they had no chance to meet their sons' in- structors. We are of the opinion that they are correct in their complaint, for a small school should make it policy to have close faculty-parent relationships. The turnout at the tea was not a sign of a close relation- ship of this type. Several of our reporters claim there were many disappointments. One of the most annoyed was a woman who came all the way from Illinois, and did not meet one of her son's professors. Her lament was that the school had no right announcing something which they had no intention of completing. Even those of the faculty who have offered some varied suggestions for combatting apathy in student activities we1·e noticeable by their absence. How can this air of dis- interest among the students be removed, when the pro- fesso1·s, who are supposed to instill them with awareness, shun a social responsibility? -Levine For Your Information Note: Sunday Services on April 27 and classes on Monday, April 28, begin on Daylight Saving Time. Turn your clocl[ ahead one hom• Saturday night. SATURDAY, APR. 26 - Varsity Track, Union vs. Hamilton at Sche- nectady 2:30 p.m.; Varsity Golf, Union vs. University of Rochester at Rochester, 1 p.m.; Varsity La- Crosse, Union vs. Stevens at Sche- nectady, 2:30 p.m.; Junior Varsity LaCrosse, Union vs. Wililams at Williamstown, 2;30 p.m.; Varsity Baseball, Union vs. Hobart, at Schenectady 3:30 p.m.; .American Assn. of Teachers of German (Hud- son Mohawk Chapter) OC, all day, luncheon in West College; Gradate Council (Spring Meeting), Hale House, 9:30 a.m. with luncheon at noon; Schenectady County Glee Club Concert and Dance (with Ho- bart and Hamilton) Mohawk Golf Club, 8:15 p.m.) tickets $3.00 per couple. SUNDAY, APR. 27- DAYLIGHT SAVING TIME. Sunday Service, Preacher, Dr. Seelye Bixler, Presi- dent, Colby College, MC, !11 a.m. MONDAY, APR. 28-Daily Assem- bly, Program by Student Council, MC, noon; Varsity Tennis, Union vs. Sampson Air Force Base at Schencetady, 1:30 p.m.; Glee Club Rehearsal, OC, 7 p.m.; Jazz Clinic. MC, 8 p.m. TWO POINTS CREDIT. TUESDAY, APR. 29-Daily Assem- bly, Professor Marvin B. Sussman, MC, noon, \A Sociologist Looks at Occupational and Profesional Jar- gon\; Sigma Xi Meeting, CE 111, 4:30 p.m .. ; Social Problems Club, English Reading Room, 7:30 p.m. American Rocket Society, CE 106, 8 p.m. VfEDNESDAY, APR. 8()-Va.raity Baseball, Union vs. Hamilton at Schenectady, 3:30 p.m.; Varsity La- Crosse, Union vs. R.P.I. at S~he­ nectady, 3:30 p.m.; Varsity Golf, Union vs. Williams at Williams- town, 4 p.m.; Glee Club Rehearsal, OC. 4:30 .p.m.; Cambrian Male Chorus Rehearsal, MC, 8 p.m. THURSDAY, MAY 1-Daily As- sembly, Speaker, Mrs. Way-sung New, Chinese Lecturer, MC, noon; Concert by Cambrian Male Chorus, MC, 8 p.m. Student Tickets at door. FRIDAY, MAY 2-PROM WEEK END-Daily .Assembly, Recital, Dr. E . .A. Tidmarsh, MC, noon; Varsity Baseball, Union vs. R.P.I. at Sche- nectady, 2:30 p.m.; Varsity Tennis, Union vs. Vermont at Schenectady, 1 :30 p.m.; Interfraternity Sing; MC. 7:30p.m.; \Bali Ha'i\ Promen- ade, Gymnasium, 10 p.m.-2 a.m. Tex Beneke and his \Music in the Mood.\ ---o--- Placement News The next two weeks will con- clude the interview season. Com- panies listed are: Sargent and Co., Tennessee Gas Transmission Co., Provident Mutual Insurance Co., Grand Union, Travelers and the U.S. Gypsum Co. Lt. Commander John H. Corn- wall, representative of the recently opened Procurement Office in Al- bany, will be at Welle House on Wednesday Morning, May 7. He will answer questions regarding Officers Candidate School. A copy of the Navy Recruiting .program may be obtained· at the alumni office. The Foreign Service of the United States needs career men; assignments in. executive, political, economic, consular and other ac- tivities of the service throughout the world. Closing date for filing application forms is July 1, 19o2. .Ask for form DSP-24 at the office. Also at the Placement Bureau, you may re~;Ld a.n announcement of the Ford Foundation on foreign study and research fellowships. THE VERY IDEA By Ja.y N. Cohn A s~~:~~n ~~L!?!Cb~~i!!Y in favor qf •. I deferred rushing. This publication has strongly urgEd a . term's deferment. We were, at first, jubilant over the 1.::==================::::::====1 adoption of the term period, but on reconsidering, we fear A few months ago in this column which deals with the \public\-, t·b.at perhaps it was a very hollow victory. The fraternities I struck. out at What appeared to be the wor.k which places the name l 't 1 th t' H lf f th h h 'U a deemphasis of public relations of a. college in the public eye and Sj) I even: Y on · e ques lOll, a · 0 e OUSeS ei 1 e Wl. .on this campus, .as evidenced by, gives it a reputation among the now be forced to knuckle under to a ptoposal they in no am 0 n. g 0 the r Iaypeople. This is where Union h!!-5 way favored due mainly to financial considerations. things, the fallen down in the past and has Bitterness, if We are to believe the house spokesmen, tegration o made no concerted effort for im- 't 1 provement. is rampant. A strong, lasting term deferment should ex::piate ~e~~t~~:s n is .difficult to accept the gen- any complaints of the freshmen that the system of rushing Since then era·l' ignorance of peaple about is unfair, and it would a:Jsg be a sign that the fraternities has hap Union. In Schenectady, where the have the frosh's best interests at heart. Feeling is such. and none of it people should have pride in Un;ion On Ca mpus tll·at we fear· tlt,at deferment pro<M·arn will be • has as yet .been · and identify with th:e college, the . ' . . · \'~ d . f o r t h e better ignorance @;li:es the form of dis- neither strong nor lastmg. As much as we hate to a nut B u 8 in e 5 s k int!lrest in. what goes on here and it, the times are not Pl'Opitious foi' a full term defenal. wens H:ous~ haf utter Iacl\ of knowledge about any- Th h U · - · t t d f h · b tt t thing relatil\g to our academic e reasons w • y mon IS no ye rea Y or sac a ?en pre Y Ir\UC practices and standing. outsige •of delay a,re three-f0ld. The first of these is the drop in en~ ¥ 1 vb.enf uptah~ aybeaadr 1 ·n expectations Schenectady-at ]east at any appr.e- 11 .t h. h I . h 'th JO or IS . ' . ro men , w ·IC 1as as a consequence many · ouse~ WI of what is hoped wm be a rebirth ciable distance-the- ignorance is depleted membership. Secondly, the fraternities have been In public relations in the f.aH. No complete. People stare blankly and t U ven say, \Wher.e is that?\ · saddled with the new city tax. Thirdly, the consb11lction longer d_oes anyope. a \ mo~ eR . Man.y stu' dent~, when ask,ed' why f W t C 11 . t..· d · d th f t ·•t• f ·11 b· t bear a. title resemblmg. Public e- ~ o . es ~ O ege aas · epnve e · ra ern1 1es o a; u lations Director,\ which must be a they came here, say that they had nommal mcome from the frosh. None of these ab<:>VtJ defeatist attitude. Applicants for never heard of Union until some stipu)atiGnS are likely to be remedied in the immediate the position for neKt year are be- friend recommend!)d it . ahd ·they future. AlthouQ'h there are promises of increased -enrbll• ing interviewed on campus ab. nl <ltl had applied at the last minute, ·t t h ~f 'tl t b 1 · · d· · h ·_ .. h h. · . 1 certainly hope. that we· are a e o Just think how many more boys me!i , 00 muc · al 1 canno. e p ace Ill t · em, Wit t · e gUI - procure. the services of a capable, would apply if Union's reputation lotme of the draft hanging over the heads of college enengetic man with some idea§: . were more generallY lmown! students. It is hardly •canceivable that a What is the solution? It is hard · h t' to say. Evidently the lack of pub- The culmination of all the above is a fraternity system college :ould go throu~ . a~ let~ tre ·]l'·c· knowledge about Union is 1 • · · . ' year Wlthout a pubhc ___ x-.e a tons supposed Y the backbone of Umon College, weakened f1nan- director but such is the 'case. It nothing new, but rather a fa;ilur.e chtlly and divided among themselve!'). One house has avowed takes o~- added importance when which has been b11ilding up fro~ that it cannot open its doors next falJ if the full term one realizes how fli~sy Union's year to year and has been magni- . ' · 1 · · 'th th ter w· orld are fled by the. emergence of other col- deferral is passed. Other houses have voted for ~he 16 re atton;; Wl e ~u . . . k · d · · . . . . . . . . ·~ · anyway:, and certamly: a year m leges which have· gained the public w~e per:o With. misgiVI?gs, a;Ibmt a determmahon ,that wb.ich nothing is done'fto !~prove spotlight ·by what must have been fairness IS the first constderatlon. the situation makes the ~ob of a concerted \selling\ drive. The S d . · · · h 't · ·begun answer must be found by a public oun mg some of the opinions on campus, we have \selling\ Union, w e~ . 1 . IS relatioll.9 director hired specificauy· 1 ' d th t th t t k t d t th d again even doubly d1ff1cult. oun a e ?1~S. ou spo en . s u en s ;are · o~e ~p;pose · Of 'course, it is not fair to say for that pmpose. It's a full-til;ne to the plan. Their s IS a very vahd complamt. The1r fmances that the entire job of public rela- job. and. he will have to be good. are at low ebb; this is one more restriction which may tiona is being neglected a~ Union, Perhaps better public relations I · ult1tude of will improve other problems on resu t m a death knell for ·some. Some of the fraternities for the term covers a ~ · · cam· pus, too. ·Lack of i.nterest in b bl t f 1 ld ') . . ' facets. .As for alumm relations pro a ~ mas o t 1em, \:ou II {e to see ~he term delay, and the college's contacts with the student activities, poor attendance but their pocketbooks can t stand the stram. upper e<;helon of society from at college events, and s-eneral stu- Deferred rushing is n0w more than an idea .it is a which grants and dortations come, dent letl).argy may all be reduced !'eality, albeit a shocking one to many houses In t'he same these jobs are be.ing well-ha!'-dled with an upsurge in public knowl• h . ' • , . by two men particularly ass1gned edge about Union. As other people way t at the term deferral IS a threat to some fratermbes, to the tasks. But just as import- come to appreciate his college, the· so are these fraternities at the present time a thi'eat to ant, and maybe evep. more so, is student begins to take a greater the plan itself. In their financial difficulties, these h.ousest :::h~e~~po~r~t~io~n~o~f~~p~ub~l~ic~~re~l~at~i~on~sfilpfriiiidiiieiiiiiiin;;;;;;i;;;;t iiihiiiimiiiiiiseiiiliiif.;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;o;;;;;;;;;;;;;, are concerned with survival, and would be justified in li appealing the decision. We would rather see them win the appeal than discredit the deferred system by sub rosa means. This is not, as one might believe, a reversal of Con- cordiensis policy. We want the term defen-al and we want it to last. The fraternities have shown that they cannot accept it now, for on the basis of two polls they have yet to :rot~ for it. We'd like to S(?e th~ .question brought up agam m the IFC. If a clear cut deCisiOn cannQt be :gained there, we'd recommend the matter be referred· to the student body for a vote. -J. J. c. Letters to the Editor To the Editor of Concordiensis: there are not many activities that I feel that James Balneaves has can draw it out; there are not found, in the depths of his vitriol many activities that can draw it bottle, one of the symptoms of the out because we have nq spirit be• disease that is greatly weakening hind them. From all this we- might the group ability of the student conclude that the disease af:fllctlng body. His comments on the Mounte- us is apathy. The student body is :banks were very well founded. simply too lazy to put sustained Speaking as one who was dropped effo:r;t behind anything, they are from a production cast I feel that even too lazy to demand a good we should praise, rather than cen- job from the activities. sure, those who are willing to take Just another instance .()f this such steps for the betterment of a student apathy is the fact that the prod'Uct of the college. senior class can not decide whether We would certainly expect the or not have a formal dance. They football coach to drop from the wouldn't mind a semi-formal for squad any player who broke train- then the only one put out ,vould ing and missed practice. It is his be the young ladies who· would duty to do so both for the morale have to bring a gown. Or they of tltose who are willing to work don't WlJ,nt to have flowers because and because a man like that will they might have to worlt a few not help win_ games. But, they .say, h~;>urs to pay for them. the Mountebanks was not in com- But this suggests a new diagnosis petition, all We want Is an ac· for the disease. M11-ybe it Is the tivity where a student can spend a new wave of \liberalism\ (defined little time and effort and reap a as \freedom from effort\) a;nd. the good deal of benefit-so don't make Un~on Student is f\nding his destiny the :plays so good. They are wrong. in being the most average In an Anything the student body d'Oes age of mediocrity, is done in competition with ·things Respectfully, of a similar nature done by the LES:LIE F. OOUCH student bodies of other colleges. True, this conflict is not as drama- To the Editor of Concordiensls: tic as that on the football field but The Delphic Society wisluis to there is a struggle for the loyalty make public acknowledgment and (and its accompanying monetary gratitude for the complete coopera- support) of alumni, friends and tion which we received in connec- even students. ti'on with Parents Weekend. For a Successful PARENTS'. WEEKEND PHIL ENGLEBARDT'S LICj)UOR. STORE 519 Union St. Phone 3-3110 • A Full Supply of UQUO.RS and WINES i-- -~-- -- ... -- -·-- ~ 1 1 Serving Union's Men I F Y \ I 1 or ears 1 : $ee your agent OIJ Campus r : UNITED : I CLEANERS · 1 1 TAILO·RS I I I 1 Phone 4-5676 . 1 I 114 State St. near Ferry 1 '- .. ----- -·----- -· FamoQs Cltlnese and American Foods LUM FUNG Restaurant BEST LIQUORS AND COCKTAILS , 135 Broadway Phone 6·9595 ·----,----~~---~ James Res+a.urant • GOOD FOOD~ at p~ices you c~n afford. Booth and Fount11in Ser¥ice 426 State Street ........... ~ .. ¥ BOOKS ., BOOKS BOOKS History, Literature, Seology Come in and prowl! James C. Howgate Bookseller 128 South Chur.ch St. L a. BAlFOUR CO. Fraternity Jewelers BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEWEL'R.'Y LEA.TiiER Gl:Ji'rs STATIONERY • PROGRAMS OLUB PINS ~ KEYS MED.AI.S - TROPBlES Write or call· CARL SORENSEN SO Murra;y Ave. Waterrlol'd, N.Y. PHONE TROY-ADAMS 8-mB SAVE 1S% - ON FOOD COSTS - SAVE 15% NOTT RESTAURANT AND BAR For Quick Take-out Orders Call Sch.-6-9766 Raw, Steamed Clams \Meet and Eat at EDDIE'S\ 547 Nott St., opposite Green Gate Schenect!ldy, N. Y. MEAL TICKETS-$5.75 for $5.00 As for letting the students work Those who were especially help- now and then and finally put on a ful are: Dr. Carter Davidson, mediocre production, they can work Harold Van de Car, Henry ~wanlter, as little as they want now but they Col. Edward Soulliere, Dean C. should certainly not criticize those William Huntley, the members of willil'lg to worlt long hours to put the Glee diub, the Department of on the best job possible, nor should Physical Education, Concordlensis, they criticize the fact that these Faculty Women's Club, Rath:skeiler, people get the responsible jobs; WRUC, Union Chapter of AIEE, , they deserve them. Can anyone Mr. Helmer Webb, Mr. and Mrs. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SS~ ·truthfuily assert that anyone re- William South, Robert -Griswold, It celves any benefit from doing very Mr. Theodore Mciiwalne, the Book- little work on a poor production? store, Mrs. Stella Bradt, the faculty, By the analogy used previously we the foreign students, the :Geology should all be allowed to play foot- department, the Psychology depart- ball now and then because we don't ment, the Biology department, tbe care if we win or not. If someone Electrical Engineering department, like Bill Snyder wants to work the Chemistry department, Michael extra thne -at it so that we can do Otis, Robert' :Marcus, .. and James a better job he should not be Kenworthy. praised but critiCized. Every ac- Special thanks are also liue the .tivity on campus is run by a hard students and parents· who attended core of those few willing to work, the function. These people and the others ride on their ·shoulders. others too numerous to inentlon I hope they don't fall off when have helped to make thisi second they enter the cold, cruel world•. annual Parents W~ekend a eniccess; So we're caught in a: vicious RICHARD s. NEMETH, circle. We have no spirit because For the Delphic Society LANGE & RAPP PHARMACY \The College Students Drug Sfore 11 CHEMICALS~ DRUGS Cor. Nott Terrace and State Street FRII .·~ The Trust neck, Th« main, the a seaso thou~ yet, .t of tl: ha.ve a cui Ha recto meet: tee i empl: yet : the c to c .befOI Boar ner who I path• and inati l.ess it. Sp Unio . smal with the cone no < on ' whe1 able ·w be~ ber ing east< athl< dete to « 01 ther in co duri also at 1 the g.am are in 1 of tear witl It no • for oi; be(): den and on tive intc of mu: T tol res1 rna: Wli the (JoJ Jay abi at agJ

s y d n FRIDAY, A.PI{IL 25, 1952 Tlte Spectator . .·~ by IRWIN BAitG Dress Clothes ·Headquarters Tux. Tails & Accessories OTTAVIANo•s Sartorial Bar 427 Liberty $t. Y:ICTORIA :Restaurant Specializing In Italian Foods Jay Street (Cor. Union) Union '.'9'' Seeks Win Over Hobart Athlete of W e·ek ·SUSAN HAYWARD Plus Dangerous GREGORY PJ:CK Plus ·insurance Irtveslgator · · This is what women put on men ••• when men put on ARROW SHIRTS ARROW ')») . ... IHIRTS • Till • SPORTS SHIRTS o UNDIRWIAR • HA~DKIRCHI&FI Garnet Lacrosse Team angles With Stevens The Garnet lacrosse men seek their initial victory, after dropping two s..traight to Hofstra and Dartmouth, against the Stu:ternen from Stevens Tech tomorrow at 2:30p.m., on Library Field. The Stutes wiU enter the contest as favorites, with all put four of their last year's v$-rsity back. Softball Art Lawrence has posted the intramural softball schedule for the coming season, which will be- gin on Tuesday. The twenty-one teams which have entered will compete in three leagues. The first week's schedule: April 28-7:00 Inds-Alpha Delt (SL) Bllanks-Chi Psi (NL) Betas-D Phi (ND) Delta Chi-KA (SD) April 29-7:00 DU-Kappa Sig (ND) KN-Phi Gamm <SD) PSD-Phi Delt (SL) Sig Phi-Sig Chi (NL) April 30-7:00 PSK-Theta Delt (NL) AD-D Chi (SD) BEU-Inds (SL) Psi U-Blanks (ND> ---o--- AT ,.11'. B. Graubarts & Sons We Repair ••• Your WATCHES Your JEWELRY, Your SILVER Utmost care is taken by skilled workers to give you every reason to be pleased. -Watches and docks cleaned and repaired -New watch cases and bands -New watch crystals inserted -Jewelry and silver replated and repaired 166 JAY STREET·· Opposite Mohican You can't miss • • • when you wear smooth-fitting, perfectly-tailored Arrow Shirts! Arrow Gordon Dover You click every time-in one of these famous-for-style Arrows! They're made· from finest \San• forized\ fabrics, 1\:litoga-cut for body-tapered :fit. So come in and pick the Arrow shirt you like best -in your favorite collar style. $4.50 NUSBAUM'S - 44 7-451 STATE STREET \----- FOR ARROW UN~VERSITY STYLES

4 FRIDAY, APRIL 25. 1952 What • IS Rare \A\ • Ill June? so as an Examinations will be held in the®•-------------------------~--------------------~------------------------~------- Ec~momics 40b (A<lcounth1g). Biology 2lb <Embryology). Gymnasium unless otherwise di- Mathematics lb <Algebra & Dif· Mathematics llb (Integral Cal-i Psychology 12b (StatIstIcal ferentlal Calculus). culus) Sees. 3 & 5 to E.E. 22. · Methods). E. 27b (Heat Engines) in C.E. SOl & 808. Sociology 59b (Social Problems in· industrial Society), rected. The final examination in Draw- ing lb and Sb will be given during Psychology lb <General) Sec. 4 Mathematics 12b (Differential &, .Air Science 3b (First Year Ad- in E. E. 22. Integral Calculus). · va.nced (Sections A & C only) In E. !l1 (A. C. Machinery). the last class period. Psychology llb (Psychology of Mathematics 22b (Integral Cal-; B~E~ 109 & 110. (Sec. B in another Personality) Sec. 2 in E:E· 22. culus). Grou.p, t:S().4:SO p.m. History 64ib (Greek: & Roman of the History). E. 31b (Structural Design) ln History 16b (History Conflicts in examinations should be repovted to Miss Bouck in the Dean's Offic~ before Friday, May 1:30-!l:SO p.m. O.E. 303. TUESDAY, JUNE 3 8 :S0-11 :·so a.m. United States). C?hemistt•y 27 (Colloid Chemistry). ~ 11111111111111111111 II I Ill IIIII II~ IIIII 111111!11111 11111111111111 iII I I IIIIIIAIIII 1_11111 ilil.llllllllll ~ 16, 1952. English 30b <American Liter- E. 37b <Seminar) in E.E. 16. ·: = ature). 1:80-4:30 p.m. English 13b (Play Production). 5 : 1 MONDAY, MAY 26 8:3()..11:30 a.m. French lb (Elementary). German lb (Elementary). Spanish lb (Elementary). Economics 37.b <Problems of La- bor & Industrial Management). :History lb (History of Western. : 5 civilization> sees. 1, 2 & sin E.E •. : Your Official Prom· Florist : 2~.. ' : ·: History 33b (The U.S. in the 20th Century), E. llb (Analytical Mechanics). Government 47b (The Role of the U.S. in World Politics). :History 25b (Histot·y of Modern 5 5 Warfare). : : Economics 46 <Advanced Ac- counting). FRIDAY, MAY 30 8:80-11.:30 a.m. Science 50b (An Approach to Modern Science). S:S. . lOb (Logic & .Scientific 5 5 :!~!~~:~: 17b (Lntroduction tol T • J.. ~K I N G ~. Chemistry 12b (Organic). Geology lb (General). -, E. 20b (Mechanics of Materials for Jr. C.E.). Geology 2b (Engineering). Mathematics 25b (Theory of Art 21 <Modern Art) in 0.0. History 65b (History of East Asian Civilization). MONDAY, JUNE 2 Geology l4b <Paleontology) in 5 5 M • Equations & Algebraic Invariants). Economics 43b <Economics of • G .. 1. 23. .. • 1:30-4:30 p.m. Sociology 18b ( Introd11ction to Social Organization). Physics 32 <Kinetic Theory of Heat). E. 26b <Mechanic of Materials for EE). E. 44 (Machine Design l. TUESDAY, MAY 27 8:30-ll :30 a.m. Transportation). 8:30-11:80 a.Jti. Chemistry lb (General) Seas. 1 & English 25b (The English 3 in C.E. 106:-Secs. 2 & 4 in Jl.I.E. Drama). 22:-Secs. 5, 6, 7, 8 in C.L. 201. Economics 38b (Corporation Fin- ·Chemistry llb <Quantitative An- ance). \' alysis). Philosophy 29b (History of Ideas Chemistry 21b <Physical). in Western Civilization). Chemistry 22b <Physical). Physics 4b <Classical & Modern) E. 48 <Power Electronics). Sees. 1, 2 & 7 in E.E. 22. E. 49 <Communications). Physics 14b <Topics in General 1:3()..4:30 p.m. French lOb (Introduction French Literature). Physics) Sees. 1 & 2 in E.E. 22. Physics 25a <Principles of Elec- to tronics--lst semester). Spanish lOb (Spanish-American Litet·ature). Physics 25b (Principles of Elec- tronics-2nd semestel'). - Education 4b (Ed'Ucation, Psy- chol<Jgy & General Principles of D i 5 t i n c t i v e c 0 r s a 9 & 5 Teaching). E. 28b <Highways and Airports). 1:30-4:30 p.m. Latin 1b <Elements of Latin}. M:usic lb (History & Appre()iation .of Music). E11glish 20b <Milton & the 17th <Century). History 32b (Social & Intellectual : .a:istory of the U.S.). , : S.S: 28 (American Constitutional .a Development). Chemistry 25b (Advanced An- \'Boutonniere Included With All Orders F R E E DELIVERY French 2b (Second Year). French 12 (Composition). German 2b rSecond Year). German lOb (Introduction to Economics llb (Elementary). Physics 26 (Introduction to Ma..\<- well's Field Equations). Psychology 25 <Social Psy- a.l)tical). Contact Your Ticket Representative (Electromagnetic Modern German Literature). Spanish 2b rsecond Year). Spanish 12 <Composition). Sociology 63 <The Family). E. 35 <Engineering Law for & EE>. 1:30-4:30 p.m. CE Latin llb <Reading of Selected Prose). chology). Physics 34 Waves). Economics 39b <International Trade & Exchange). S.S. 55b (Techniques & Idelogy). 1:30-4:30 p.m. E:. 31b (Structures). \\ Biology 23b <Psycho-Biology). English 18 rThe Modern Ameri\ Chemistry 24 <Chemical & Scien- can Novel). WEDNESDAY, JUNE 4 tific Literature). Spanish. 26 <Area Study of Span- E. 29 (Electrical Engineering Ish America). 8:30-11: SO a.m. Theory) (Jr. E.E.) Government 48b (State & Local E:nglish 24b (The Victorian Era). SATURDAY, MAY 31 8:30-11:30 a.m. Government in Practice). .s.s. 50b (Social & Political Phil- Biology 13b <Biological ConceptS\ oso}lhy). & Theories). Biology lb (Genera]). Mathematics Slb <Advanced Cal- Biology llb (Zoology & Com- . . or Call 2-3361 ........................................................................................... _ ....... Located on State Street at Overhead Crossing . . Greek lb (Elements of Greek). Greek llb <Intermediate Course). History 24b <History of Latin America). History 2lb <Modern & Contem- culus). :parative Anatomy of Vertebrates). poniry Europe: Germany & Rus- sia in Europe, 1815 to Present). ;. I 111111111 IIIII 11111111111111111111111111 Ill Ill 1111 Jill Jill IIIIUIIIIIIIIIII .11.1111111111111111111• Biology 22b <General Physiology). Chemistry 31 <Advanced Inor- ganic). Geology 21b (Mineralogy & Cry- stallography) in G.L 28. Economics 45b (Public Finance). Mathematics 2a (Algebra & An- alytic Geometry). Mathematics 2b (Analytic Geo- metry & Calculus). Sees. 1 & 2 to E.E. 22. Physics 22 <Physical Optics). E. 45 <Basic Structures). Air Science 3b <First Year Ad- vanced) (Section B only) in B.H. 109. (A. & C. in another Group). Mathematics lla (Differential & Integral Calculus). WEDNESDAY, 'MAY 28 8:30-11:30 a.m. English lb (Freshman English) Sees. S, 5 & 11 in E.E. 22. English lOb <Introduction to Eng- lish Literature l Sec. 1 in E.E. 22. English 21b <Shakespeare). Geology 23b <Structural Geology & Glacial Geology). Psychology 24b <Applied Psy- chology). Air Science 4b (Second Year Ad- vanced) In B.H. 109. 1:30-4:30 p.m. Art 20b r Mediaeval & Renais- sance) in O.C. Religion 62b <Comparative Re- ligion). German 23b· <The Classical Period>. Russian 1b <Elementary). Government 12b <Introduction to Government). Mathematics 21b (Differential Equations & Adva need Cakulusl. Education 3b CHistory & Prin- ciples of Education). E. 15 (Elements of Electrical Machinery). E. 22 <Structures-Jr. CE>. E. 39b <Sewerage). THURSDAY, MAY 29 8:30-11:30 a.m. Geology 12b <Geology & Physi- ography 9f the United States> in G.L. 2S. Mathematics la <Analytic Geo· me try & Algebra>. Seniors in Civil Engineering • Watches, Jewelry • Clocks Repaired • Engraving, too! WO:RK in CALIF~O·R~NIA WITH STATE DIVISION OF HIGHWAYS Fine professional positions now open. Civil Engineering degree required. Start any time. Wide choice of locations in California. $3·~5 TO START. EARLY RAISE MAIL TillS COUPON TODAY! - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - State Personnel Board, 1015 L Street Sacramento l!l, <Jallfor:nla. Please write me at onco about (check): ---Job immediately after ~raduatlon. -Midsummer oxamination for later appointment. NAME .............. ············· ..................... ········· ADDRESS CITY ..... ........... COLLEGE WE ASKED GRADUATES TEN YEARS OUT OF COLLE~GE: WHAT MADE YOU .DECIDE ON A CAREER WITH SENERAL ELECTRIC? 'tt by G-E employees who This advertisement was ~; 0 ~; enough to have gained graduated ten years ago to have forgoHen the de· perspectiv~, but !'ot to~ hl~:g Company. These graduates tails of the1r com1~9 wit. e d were requested to return were sent a ques!1onna.r~ an 1 • ted below in order of it unsigned. Thear answers, IS • I of G E as a . · f · mative appra1sa · • mentions, g1ve an m or e of career opportunities. place to work and as 0 sourc 1. G·E TRAINING PllOGRAMS Sample quotes: \I knew that G.E. offered the best train- ing courses.\ \Liked tl1e idea of rotating assignments and courses.'' \Wanted to take advantage of the training courses.\ \G.E. had a t:raining plan which would let me choose a job after reasonable time for investigating jobs available in the Company.\ \I felt that Test (Test Engi- neering Program) wotildrnake the easiest transition from school to work.\ \I felt that I would get the best kind of electrical engineeri11g training if I went with G.E.\ \The Test course a:p:pea:led to me because of its combina- tion of continued technical instruction plus practical ex- peri~nce on the test :flC>or.\ 2. VARIETY OF 0 PJ»OitTUNITIES cation-i.e. 1 'application engineering.' •• \P-romise of varied experience made it unnecessary to decide on a particular specialty until I had more opportunity to look the field over.\ 3. GENERAL ELECTRIC'S REPUTATION \G.E.'s prestige and reputation appealed to me.\ \G .E. was more favorably disposed to the coming war effort and was doing work directly contributory.\ ''High caliber persons with whom to work.\ \Reputation for technical excellence.'' \G.E.'s reputation as a go<Xl em- ployer.\ ''Because with the name of G.E. went a sense of security.\ \I felt that G.E. was the leader in the electrical field and I wanted to take part!' \Why does a youngster run away with a circus?\ - 4. CONSIDERATE TREATMENT \Believed it was a good chance to find the field I liked best as I wasn't quite sttre what type of work I wanted to get into.\ \G.E. goes out of its way to find the corner you are happiest in and best suited for.\ \The varied opportunities of work let you change jobs without leaving the company.\ \Only- company which offered a job where an engineer could be in on design, sales and appli- \The only offer 1 received was from General Electric -other companies interviewed would not consicler me because of my reserve officer status.\ \Among th.e com- panies offering jobs to cQllege graduates in 1941, G.E. seemed to take more of a personal interest in its new men.\ \The G-E representatives made me feel they were interested in me.\ For a]ree booklet, \Planning Your Career,\ a description of such G-E training programs M the Test Engineering Program, Businesr 'Pmining Course, Mrmujacturing Training Progrrmz,. Chemical mzd Metallurgical Program, the Physics Progrmn a7lri Sales Training programs, write to General Electric Co., Dept. 221B-6, Schenectady, N.Y. :foa can~ ra corukx m_ GENERAL. ELECTRIC Vol. 79.

