i' I i \ '. I i, Campu~ Mourns Passin c;1 of Frank 'Bailey Vol. 81, No.·1 1 I Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., SEPTEMBER 25, 1953 / /,e !\'1 Convocation Heralds College Opening PRICE 10 CENTS Exercises New UP Teletype . Colonel Edward J. Soulliere, Pro- New additions about the statlon fessor of Air Science and Tactics, are a United Press teletype, don- announced Tuesday the names of ated by Lucky Strike in exchange three seniors who have been chosen for advertising time on two pro- to till the highest cadet offices in grams, a new sound dolly for use the AFROTC program. in dramatic productions, and 90 Selected as Wing Commander classical record albums. was Cadet Colonel Karl L. Kling- This year the station will run a berg who was described by Colonel regular 15 minute news broadcast Soulliere as \one of the outstand- at 10 p.m. with world and local ing cadets of the AFROTC pro- news as well as all the campus gram.\ Klinberg received an out- news. Some of the other programs standing rating in AFROTQ camp will be a classical record show at Wf:!stover Air Force Base dur- from 8:30 to 10 p.m., uninterrupted ing the 19~3 summer encampment. by advertising. Later in the year Cadet Lieutenant Colonels Donald thEt popular Dutchmen Show will P. Matteson and Michael H. Ra- be presented Sunday evenings. basca will serve as Commanding Twenty Questions, a perennial Officers of groups I and II re- favorite will once again be pre-, spectively. These appointments sented. were based on past achievements both academically and in AFROTC~ Will B1·oadcast Away Games Joining the faculty of the De- partment of Air S'Ciemce and Tac- The station expects to broadcast tics are Major Hilton H. Weiss, be presented Sunday evenings. Captain James J. Gibbons and Ser- all the away football games, with geant. Harold P. Evans. All three the exception of the St. Lawrence \'a me, and several of the a. way bas- men are to serve a four year tour ,, of duty at Union. ketball games. The station will The Union College AFROTC de- not broadcast local gmes. tachment, numbering approximate- In addition to Walter Hoffman, ly 410 cadets, is broken down into the Executive Board of the station 173 freshmen, 115 sophomores 57 includes Lin Swearingem, who as juniors and 65 seniors. It is ix{ter- business manager represents a new esting to note that the first group addition to the staff, Lloyd Fa!- to be affected .by the new rules lowes, technical director and Wal- , governing admission to the Ad- ter Stark, program mana:ger. Saui vanced Corps, the junior class, is Babbin will be in charge of train- divided into 32 flight trainees and ing the new recruits for radio · 25 science and engineering stu- work. dents.

j 1 ;I l l I I I I I I i I I I I 2 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1953 Welcome Freshmen 1 *----------------------------------------------~~ , A Word to the Wise 1 Q1nurnr Member Associated Col- legiate Press and distrl butor of the CollegiaU. Digest. National Adve~­ tising Hepreseutatlve: Na- tional Advertising Servic>e, lue.. College Publishers Hepresentative, 420 Madi- son Ava., N. Y. C. Pub- lished every I<'rida y of the school year. Editorial Office, Washburn Hall, Union CQllege. Pub- lication Office, The Ga- zette Press, 334 State St. Entered In the Schenec- tady Post Office as Sec- om! Class Mail Matter, subscription 100 a copy; $3 year delivered any- where ·In the United States. 8E:>i lOR BOARD • HERB8RT L. SPIRA '54 ....... 3-~6:.0 ................. Editor-in-Chief Li.\HY H. K.\T2 ·:.:. ............. 2-3611. .•............ Associate Editor ~L\HTlX HAl'>n•:R ·;,5 .......... 6-~1510 ••. , .•....••••.... :Sports Editor HUBEHT CI!AHTUI<'l•' '55 ...••.. 2-3tlll. .............. Managing Editor l'ETEH AULEil ·;,5 •••.......••.. 6-SjlU ................... News Editor ~IAH\'1:-: 1\UHIS '55 ............. 6-9~59 ........... Photography Editor IHliH-:HT HECK '5+ .............. 2-3611. ............ Busmess l\ianager J.\CK J. \\'UULF '&& ........... ~-:!Gll. .......... Circulation Ma11ager JUNIOR BOARD c a:nR<;E SOI-'1-'ll' '55 ......................... Assistant :Sports Editor JUSEI'H HULL11'GEH '56 ........... , ••.• Assistant I3usiues:; 1>1anager 11~\\'1:>: UE!Ul:!.UU ·:.1 ................................ Exehange Editor l'Al'L (;ll.BEltT '54 ................................. Exchange Editor J.\~lES U.\ltHETT ':i6 .......................... A~sistant New:; Editor :.\VI.TTHI•;w :\1Al'Bll '56 ....................... Assistant Sports Editor HuilEH'l' SWAT ';,4 •.................................• , ..... Art Editor REI'OltTEltS Noah Herley, Hans Groot, Benjamin :::;aUock, Arthur l:i\\abrkant. ~ormau Bartuer, Htchanl l'l'OlJJI, llichard Slutsl(er, David Fink, Hart Ki~ett, Joel Gitlin, ~lartin Zimmerman, Alau Young, !'\orman Scull, Robert lUI'hter, lleuben Schwartz, Al>he Gold, Leslie llernstein, Roger Merrill, Steve Lewis, Philip Schaefer, Joseph Matorano, Hobert ,.;eharf, James Spero, Hubert Tofel. BUSINESS STAFF Alfred Nadel, Stanley l•'orwand, Arthur Brenner, Art Fdmun. CllWULATION S'l'AFP Harry Patterson, Carl MlndeH, llirlt Shaver. :FitESHl\IEN REPORTERS Bob Lewis, A! Green, \\'illiam esson, Cal Knid(erboeltet·, Edward Cloos, Ted Snllth, Jetry Goldstein, Steve Krafel, Albert alvato, John Scin, Alan Schechter, Ladislau Berka, Alan Schiffman, Simon Stertzer, Alan Shu- can!, Jerry Hirshin, Ed Longholz, Dil'k Lewis. Gaudiamus This year's impressive Convocation ceremony parallels in its broad outlines the corresponding event at St. Andrews University, Fife, Scotland. If one may imagine our Memor- ial Chapel as 15th Century Gothic-styled grey stone, and the members of the student body clothed in scarlet, knee-length, academic robes, one may sense the atmosphere prevailing at St. Andrews. There is present the full force of an academic tradition which stretches back to 1411, when the University was founded. Sunlight streams through the centuries old stained glass as the gold and silver maces, symbols of the University's authority, lead the procession do\\.'11 the aisle. Then, instead of singing some song like \Ye Grand Old Stone of Scone\ the students are upstanding to render the verses of the Gaudiamus--the international student anthem. Since Brahms composed the Academic Festival Overture in the early 1700's, the same Latin words have been sung with relish in almost every country in the world, as our Scottish, German, French, Danish, and Malayan exchange students can testify. It is someti1ing all students have in common, like \Les Lois de Minerve.\ Freshman Camp ~----~- --------~-------~----------~~ By the Grecian Dreamer September 21, 1953 represented more than the reopening of Union College for the 1953-54 acade.mic year. It is a, symbol of Oppor- tunity, which is affm·dod to the undcrgraduated, fresh from thPir summer repose. Students are be- ginning another college year which will be filled with varied and stimu- lating exper-iences. Normally, it should not be neces- sary to Jist the basic purposes sym- bolized in the opening of the academic year in over 700 Arr:eri- can Colleges and Universities. How- ever, it seems that many students show a sadly apparent dist·egard for .the .privileges and opportunities that Universities grant. One hears talk today of the in- tense ·need for a college education in the present day world. Today',s career in business, science, 01' pro- fession requires special preparation. It is obvious that any co!Iege man should have the advantage in seek- ing employment because ·of more advanced training and superior knowledge, which consists of the theoretica1 and practical subject matter of his college courses. Union College and its reopening on September 21 symbolize op- portunity. We will once more be presented with a richly varied, set of experiences, which must end in assimilation for the full advantage to be gained from this opportunity. To merely gain the basic ground- ings in a special field or secure a diplol)3a for business advantages is merely to scratch the surface of these opportunities. As a liber.a!l arts college, Union presents to the future technologist the opportunity to gain a ·broader background before he ·enters his field or professional school. In doing so it presents the opportlmi!Y for new interests, which might even replace the student's present field. There is in addition to c\ass instruc- tion the opportunity for individual wor·k on the part of the student, an opportunity which many students will neglect in their four years at college. Perhaps the greater op- portunity presented in the scP,ool's academic training is in teaching and encouraging the student to think for himself. This includes conc~usions drawn from given facts and. the applica:tion of theory taught in the classroom to technical and actual problems. Opportunity als0 lies in the stu- dent's campus life. The campus might be considered· a small com- munity. Here are the opportuni- .ties for participation in community activities and community govern- ment. Campus life also offers many extra-curricular activities which, in addition to providing relaxation, also affords the opportunity for obtaining knowledge in such fields as publication of school magazines and newspapers, or in broadcasting technique. 1 Union College resumed its classes on September 21, 1953. We sincere- ly hqpe that all of us may derive the maximum advantages from this date. ~--------------~--------~---· : Bummin' Around : I I 1 By Bumstead 1 ~------- \No Butts About it\ --------1 hours the people around you will usually notice an odor of burning chickle. (Wrigley's smokes well, but don't inhale it). While other colleges have been curtailing or discontinuing their Freshman Orientation work, Union College Freshman Camp keeps on rolling along, getting stronger every year. Since sixty one Freshmen attended the first camp in 1936, over two thousand men have gone through the mill of lectures, infol'lnal discussions, horse-play, athletics, learning Union's songs and cheers and the ways of college men in general. Most of them have developed friendships and ac- quaintances among their classes, the faculty, and the upper class. . This year has been a fine example of the successful operation of the camp, according to reports from Bill Ketz and Anthony (Big, 21 now, Bambino) Tartaglia, the faculty and student leaders. Its success was further noted by Presi- dent Davidson, Dean Huntley, and other staff members com- menting on the behavior of the Freshmen during the camp tour. After your alarm clock rang this morning and you silenced it with a shoe or two, what was your next act? Did you extend a shaking paw in the general direction of your cigarettes? I thouhgt so! My boy, you are an addict! Lig- gett and Meyers owns you body and soul. Looll: down at your first and second fingers. Do you see that large brownish-yellow stain? Do you remember that taste in your mouth when you awoke? Did it taste like the Chinese army had marched through in their quilted suits? How many pair of pants do you own free of cigarette burns? Do you have a T.B. cough (Tobacco Bark)? Do people shy away J'rom your fetid nicotine breath? Does the back of your tongue look like it's covered with mink? (Stop nodding yes; people are watching). Complete Stop :-The author is offering 4-1 you don't last the day. (So far I'm ahead about thirty dollars). l\Iuch of the credit belongs, we believe, to the thirty-one Union is one of the very few colleges in the United States for which a traditional song like the \Gaudy\ would be aptly suited. It would give Union one more tie with the fraternity of students the world over. Here are the words, and with a little help from the Music department, we may open Founders' Day with a ringing verse or two of the Gaudiamus: man staff of councilors, kitchen crew, and co-ordinator. They come up a week in advance of the term to contribute their time and work to help along what is, at best, a difficult process of adjustment. Their efforts have benefited both the administration and the freshmen, with the net result of bettering Union and the relationships within. Our thanks to the faculty admin- istration, and student staff members, for starting the year by putting Union's best foot forward. I hate to bring you the sad news, but nothing can be done. Ninety-nine percent of all people who attempt to give up smoking fail,-and the other one perecnt lie about it! There are any num- ber of methods you can try: Tapering Off:-This is as easy as falling up the stairs. The only way to be successful in this system is to smoke a carton the day be- fore you start and work your way down to where you were- Please don't Jet me discourage you. It's an easy thing to give up smoking. I've done it hundreds of times. A good stiff article on lung cancer will usually make me swear off for about an hour. Another method I find successful is to switch to heroin for a while. This is an excellent suggestion for peo- ple who do not wear short-sleeved shirts. Or, you might try telling yourself that at a pack a day, you could save $89 a year and in fifty years you could drive around the campus in a new Cadlllac,-if you weren't to nervous to drive. (Switch today to not smoking Parliaments; if you don't smoke them, it will only take you forty years). · Another serious consideration is your fraternity brothers. Who's going to keep them supplied? Do you want to be a social outcast. because your shirt · pocket is empty? My advice to you, friends, is not to worry about smoking. It prob- ably kills a lot of people, but so does acute indigestion and who stops eating? Gaudiamus Igitur Juvenes dum sumus (ReiYeatJ Post jucumdum juventutem Post Molcstem Senectutem Nos habebit humus. <Repeat) Vivat Academia! Vivant Professores! <Repeat) Vivat membrum Quodlibet Vivant membra Quaelibet Semper sint in fl.ore. (Repeat) Pereat tristitia! Pereant ossores <Repeat> Pereat Diabolus Quivis Antiburschius Atque Irrisores. <Repeat) Let us rejoice then While we are young. After merry youth After irksome old age, The earth will have us. ; Long live the University! Long live the Professors! Long live each member And all the members together May they always be flourishing. To hell with dejection! To hell with the haters! To hell with the Devil Every anti-student And folk that sneer. Counting On You The members of the Class of '57 should take note that it is not the first of its gender. The class that passed through the college 100 years ago had no way of knowing that a scant three years after their graduation the country would be plunged into civil war, or that out of its aftermath they would build the greatest economic empire on the face of the earth. What the class of 1857, and the other 157 classes at Union have done, is a part of history. But it is sure that the Class of 1957 wm not only follow, but will go beyond the old footsteps to blaze new trails in the affairs of men. It appears to us from our observation during this short period that the Class of '57 will hold its own. Freshman Camp was marl{ed by the presence of a constructive spirit ... the freshman requesting to be taught college songs and chee-rs. During this hectic week on campus, they have shown themselves anxious to join in the academic and extra-curri- cular activities. It seems to be establishing itself as one of the better freshman classes in Union's hh;tory. We, of the upper classes, are happy to welcome the class of '57 to the campus, hope that they develop their talents to the fullest, and. wish them four years of happy association with Union College. ~~ By Nonn Scull An open letter to the class of 1957: Although my column is usually devoted to political discussions, I am going to leave my customary topics to write about you. Your spirit shown at Freshman Camp was superb. We all h_ope that this sptrit continues, particu- larly at athletic events. It is often said that Union cheering disap- pears at a losing sporting event. I've seen a badly losing Colgate team cheered to the skies. Let's take a Jesson from them. Some of our teams are tremendous. We just completed an undefeated sea- son in track and cross-country, Our swimming team has lost three meets in the last two years. As a member of Union's debate team, I have traveled to many col- leges in the past three years. I have seen schools much lower than Union academically, socially, and athletically, bursting with enthu- siasm for their alma mater. This is in sharp contrast to the frequent complaints heard on our campus. We need a little more pride. It is true that we are not in the Big 10, and that we don't have six foot- seven basketball players, but our reputation is known in the med and law schools, at IBM and Gen- eral Electric. It would do well for all of you to read Dixon Ryan Fox's unfinished history of Union to find out why we have such an enviable record, band have had many difficulties. These activities are an important part of your undergraduate life and should be of particular interest to those of you planning. to enter law, medicine, or business. The stu- dents decide what activities are to exist and how much they shall accomplish. You have been rushed for a week now, but still have the most hectic rushing week in front of you. Think carefully before choos- ing. Some of you will be happier remaining independents. Don't be hasty in your choice. Both you and the fraternities want to con- clude rushing with you in the house where you will be the best fitted. Remember, you are choos- ing an organization for a lifetime. College is a period of solidifica- tion. Many of you will find Union's demands . are too stiff. Perhaps some of you will leave Union be- fore you graduate. Many others of you will change your course of study to one more suited to your talents. My roommate last year flunked out of engineering, only to get a 4.0 in Economics. College demands a large amount of inter- est in addition to a high degree of intelligence. In closing, I must affirm the perhaps trite opinion that college life is among the happiest times of life, and Union is tops as a place to find it. ED. NOTE ••. Chew Gum:-After about four DESK LAMPS Adjustable Incandescent and Fluorescent • SAVE SUPPLY CO. 501 State St. PHONE 6-4193 L. G. BALFOUR GO. Fraternity Jewelers BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY- PROGRAMS CLUB PINS ~ KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or call CARL SORENSEN· SO Mun·ay Ave., Waterford, N.Y. PHONE TROY-ADAMS 8-2528 i···························~·-·········-~·-··-··i I GUERRA'S PHARMACY ! Prescriptions Fountain Service Drugs I I I I I I I 600 UNI-ON ST. COR. BARRETT ST. : Just Two Blocks from the Campus I I I M ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• : GAZETTE PR'ESS PRINTERS In addition to sports, Union has a wide variety of extra-curricular activities. Some of these (as the Glee Club, The IDOL, and the Philomatheaiis) are very success- ful, while others, as WRUC and the N o1m SkWl whose column will appeat• bi-weeldy is President of the Student CoWicil and Editor of the Idol, This is his second years as colummist for the Concordiensis. 1..----------------------------• ' i' I\ 'i .( ., .. : ~ 1 i i . ~' i ., I 't \' 'i ror I~ By 1\ When we 1951, John l editor of 'C in fav:or of org·anized spc smali New with whom idea was by nor was the (\The Little For a while up a Jot of brainchild fl shadc;>ws. Comes this sudden, the i up again b: promise to ' the winner properly en~ plant. The John Kierna 1939 when 01 undefeated, c as RPI, Ha Hams, Roch• Vennont, etc. Editors at have, at one vacated such ever the idea dent interest advantages .o are numerous the organiza1 undoubtedly publicity, jus1 ference has 1 England sch revered rivall ning to die 01 and so on. That's all :1 cordiensis wE ments on the r------· I ·AU I MJ L ___ _ Another SE and with it, ivy, and grun For the pas1 seniors, juni< who for the be known a football tean into shape fo Saturday at are two signJ season's foo Union, a sing past two year ~ speedy split ~ ·I Dickson has : i l ! l Jesse, pOVI backer, and of the Dutch: seasons, haS ostensibly to It is hardly say that the DlckS{)n will split T fOl'nU nevertheless, that Jesse, as as he was, is tion in whicl The split T iJ The forma1 speed and have a fast< and, perhaps serves. The one thing, an· berg, Spiede Reed, . and G: bit more tha them the rna part, green. one of thesE disastrous. c Spfedel, Mec looked good, Klingberg,· 'l again, has lit1 husky center, and adds a~ ward wall. Jc field, and J1 .,also have go' · not big, but speed, which I twill not this ye,aa-'s st merely a qli of .the team •. have a fair t. which shoUld It is one wh the interest o B

I I I I is of er to is is so i: I O.n The Sidelin,e·s ·Split-T Shenanigans? By Mal'tin Hauser When we were frosh, back in. 1951, John Kennedy, then sports editor of 'Cordy, wl'ote .strongly in fav:or of the formation of an : organized sports league among the small New York State colleges : with whom we competed. The idea was by no means a new one,. nor was the name coined for it · (\The Little Ivy League\) new. For a while \Uncle John\ stirred up a lot of interest but then his brainchild faded back into the .. shadQws. Comes this year, and all of a sudden, the idea ha!l been brought up again by Professor Winne's promise tD donate a ia:Dphy fOl' the winner in such .a league,-· propel'ly enough a potted iv'y: pl.ailt. The \Union League,\ as Jolm Kiernan called it back in Pictured above ru:e the Union CoUege gridmen who will pl'Ol:Jably ·compose the stanting lineup in initiating Sam Hammersiron~'s new T formation against St. Lawrence at Canton tomOI'row. The Garnet will be out to avenge last year's loss to the Larries. 1939 when our football team went undefeated, comprises such schools. Rev·am· ped Grlodme· n as RPi, Hamilton, Hobart, Wil- liams, Rochester, St. Lawrence, Vennont, etc. Editors at some of these schools have, at one time or another, ad- vocated such a league and where- Face St. Law renee ever the idea has sprung up, stu- The Union College football team will open its season this dent interest has been high. The· advantages .of this kind of setup· Saturday against St. Lawrence at. Canton. The Dutchmen are numerous. First and foremost, haven't beaten St. Lawrence since 1949, and coach Sam the organization of a league will undoubtedly lead to much better Hammerstrom hopes to avenge last year's 20-19 loss. publicity, just as the Yankee Con- Union is using a split T · forma-<.+:•!-' --------------- ference has helped the small New tion with a sliding QB (the QB England schools. Then, old and spins in the conventional split T) revered rivalries which are begin- this year. The loss of Jesse Dick- ning to die out will be strengthened, son, who transferx:ed to S. M. U., and so on. took a lot of the weight out of the That's all for now, but the Con-. Union backfield, and Hammer- coriiiensis welcomes student com- strom has switched to the split T ments on the idea. in order to use the speed of his . backs as much as possible. r------------------. I ·AUTUMN i I MADNESS I ~----------------1 By Bob Tofel Squad Light and SmaU This year's squad is the smallest in fifteen years, but Hammerstrom . hopes for a good year in spite of this. \All eleven or the probable starters are lettermen, and, if we are fortunate regarding injuries . and our boys can play 60 minutes or nearly so, we should give an ex- cellent accounting of ourselves this year, because the first team, plus the few capable, replacements we Another September }las arrived and with it, falling le~es, colored 1, ivy, and grunts from Library Field. For the past three weelts, thirty have, is a good group, all of whom have had at least a year of var- sity experience.\ The lack of depth is the main weakness of the team. If some of Union's starting players are hurt, we simply don't have .anybody who can do a creditable job to put in. l i seniors, juniors, and sophomores, . who for the l),ext two months will l be known as the Union College football team, have been g:etting Larl'ies Were Two Platoon ·.<.i into shape for the season's opene1' ·l Saturday at St. Lawrence. There 1 are two signficant features in this 't season's football picture. First, ·! Union, a single wing team for the 1 past two years, will be utilizing the i speedy split T, and secondly, Jesse ·I Dickson has left Union. ! St. Lawrence has beaten us for the last three years and has four- teen returning lettermen this year. With the exception of Ronnie Hoff- man, Little All 'American guard, none of the .players has played ·both offensive and defensive ball, so it's difficult to predict how good l I. l ( { Jesse, powerful fullbaolt, line the Larries will be under the new backer, and general \Ml•. Inside\ rules. However, Paul Patten, St. .of the Dutchmen for the past two LawTence head football coach, has seasons, haS transferred to S.M.U., consistently turned out good teams ostensibly to be nearer his home. ·in the six years he's been at the It is hardly a fitting farewell to helm, so it seems safe to predict say that th.e heavily muscled Mr. that St. Lawrence will provide very DlckS{)n will not be missed in our tough opposition. Their line is split T fo1•niation, but this fact is, much heavier thai), ours, and their nevertheless, true. It is cold fact backs combine weight with speed. th.at Jesse, as excellent a performer Ronnie Oates, 180 pound halfback, as he was, is nQt built for a forma- has run all over us for the last tion in which speed is paramount. two years, and Bill Rose is 205 The split T is such a formation. pounds of fullback and should be hard to stop. In general, the team The formation is built solely on is good, both offensively and de- speed and shiftiness. We still fensively. have a fast compt!tent first eleven Union will be without the serv- and, perhaps, a few capable re- ices of Dick Speidel this week. The serves.. The backfi?ld is mis:;J.ng. speedy halfback suffered rib inj.ur- one thmg~ and that 1S depth. Kim~- ies at the beginning of practice, berg, Sp1edel, Woderzak, Med~r, and has been out since. Nothing Reed, . and Giambruno are quit~ a definite can be said as to wiien he bit more than adequate, bilt after will be able to play again, but he them the material is,_ f?r the most hopes to be ready for the Amherst part, green. A key mJury to any gaine next week. one of these backs would prove dU!astrous. On the positive side, Iilingberg Should Star Football Tix Plan Remains the Same The rotation system for the dis- tribution of football tickets to the student body, which was devised and adopted in the sl;lring of 1948 by the Committee on T:Jndergradu- ate Activities, i:? again in effect. The system will operate with greater equality and satisfaction, Only if the student body cooper- ates fully. The system divides the students into 22 groups. Group listings may be obtained at the gym office. Reservations will be held· until 5 p.m., Wednesday prior to. each game. The cheering section of 200 seats is reserved for freshmen only. Band members must get tickets in the band section only. Students who plan to serve as ushers must get specific seats from the Athletic office. All tickets for students will -be issued from the Athletic Depart- ment and are for reserved seats. They can be procured for the per- sonal use of the students only up- on presentation of their Student Athletic Ticket. The tickets are not transferable and violation of this rule will result in their for- feiture. Students desiring to pur- chase guest tickets should do so when procuring their own tickets. Guest tickets are two dollars apiece. Faculty members should procure their tickets from the Ath- letic office-prior to noon of the day of each game. These tickets are not transferable. -~--o--- Football Tourney Opens Next Week Intramural football begins Mon- day with four games starting at 12:55 p.m. Four other games, in- cluding defending champion Delta Upsilon's contest with Kappa Alpha, take place on Tuesday at the same time. Any independent teams wishing to enter may do so, but they must have their rosters at Art Law- rence's office in the gym not later than Monday noon. Touch football rules and the schedule of all games are also available at Art Lawrence's office. Booters Prep For Uo of R. This Tuesday, the Union Stack, Schecter Form New Harrier Nucleus 3 qollege ~~ccer tea;m ~eld its The Union College cross-country team opened training first. official practice ~n prep: last week and though hampered by the loss of the great aration for the commg fall . . ' . . • • · . campaign. Despite the fact Drck ;nolan and Garr Clough, the club rs b~gmnmg to shape that nine lettermen will re- up fardy well. Veterans Don Stack and Elliot Schechter pro- . turn, the squad has been hurt vide Coach Bill Ketz with a strong nucleus around which to by losses dlfe. to .g!a.d_uation perform a major rebuilding job. and scholastic mehgrbrhty. 'stack, in his second year at~-------------- Nine starters from the 1952 var- Union, is the first sophomore ever liato seems to rate the inside track . sity wili be missed this season to capta1'n the harr1'ers. He was· f 't' f C · bl when the Dutchmen take the field or posl wn our. oncc!Va Y a · 0 10 · consistently second and third to great help te the team could be agamst Rochester on ct. · , liT junior John Burr who starred in their first encounter. Last year's Dolan during last year's un:de- entire forward waH of Hallie Os-. feated campai1,rn and placed high his freshman year, but has not been out since. borg at center, and Enrique Pin- in the N.Y.S.S. championships, erua and Arturo Tanco at the in- bringing us a second place finish, side slots has been lost. This com- even though Dolan was en the ·in- bination was responsible for the jured list. In the words of Coach greater part of the Garnet's scor- Ketz, \Stack is teriffic. He may ing and was instrumental in com- turn out to be another Dolan.\ Vermont Opens Season Vermont; probably the toughest team on the Garnet ~late, will open the season here at Union ·on Oc- tober 10. Then the Dutchmen move to RPI on the 17 to face the Engi- neers. Middlebury is here on the 30, followed by the NYSS cham- pionships at Buffalo on November 7. The dual meet season closes at Union on the 14 against Hamil- ton. On the 16, Coach Ketz wH! take his top runners to New York for the ICAAAA championships. Middlebury and Hamilton should prove easy wins, while RPI is an unknown quantity, At the worst, the Garnet should pull out with a .500· season. piling the 4-3-2 record for the sea- son, Rhein Vogel and Herb Rie, two valuable frontlinemen who supplied the scoring punch on the left side, also were graduated. Defense Weakened Schechter lmpi\oved Schechter, number four last year, looks much better and will run in the second slot. He could con- . , ceivably surpass Clough, a fine runner in his own right. The third The defensive alignment has yosition will probably be filled l:ly been .greatly weakened by the loss trackman Al MacKinnon, who ran of Jerry Heinzmann and Bud that fine 2:03 half-time in the track Heussler at fullback, and Fred championships last spring. Mac- Rapant at center halfback. The Kinnon also looks much improved. · los of Jordy Greenfield, whose out- It is in the vital four and five standing .performance in the goal positions, from which the winning mouth gained him All-American points often come, that the Gar- mention two seasons ago, has also net may falter. Ed Konis, who left a gap in our defensive setup. alternated in the fifth spot with Union soccer hopes were given Jan Walker, now graduated, suf- quite a lift by the announcement fered a bad back injury this sum- that Eric Gansmeuller, a standout mer and will not be able to run. with ,the team two years ago, will c h K tz '11 h t d f . oac e Wl ave o raw rom 1 Sophomores wishing to com- pete for managerial positions in Varsity Football, Cross-Country ahd Soccer are requested to re- port to the office of the Di- rector of Athletics. return ai; center forward. Playmg a group consisting of Wes LeMa-, alongisde 'Gansmueller will be saurier, Les Sobin, Bill Matthews, George Pasqua!, an exchange stu-. Franl!: Magliato, Phil Dubois and dent from the Philippines. Al- Dale Christie. Right now, Mag- though it is still too early in the ==-====:_...:::::::.::_..::_:.:_:.:._-=:::~=============== season to make any predictions, it appears that Pasqua! has the capa- bilities to continue where Art Tan- .co left off last year. Captain Carl Reinitz will probably be moved from halfback to the front line to give the offense the experience it lacks. Barry Wolfensohn at outside left and Bill Sorn,merville at out- . side right complete the tentative forward wall. The only bright spot 'in the de- fensive picture will ·be Diclr Car- penter at fullback. Last year, as a freshman, Carpenter's brilliant play helped to strengthen our sag- ging defensive wall. Halfback Ross Saddlemire and• fullback Don Zen- ger will probably be given starting berths in the back line. The .battle for the goalie spot figures to be a two way fight between Gerry Jame- son and Carl Paulsen. · ---0--- Intramural Tennis To Begin Monday AJ;J. All-dollege Fall T~nnis Tour- nament will be held on the tennis courts, beginning Monday, Septem- ber 28, it was announced today by Dr. John Bradbury, new tennis coac·h. All students are invited to enter the tournament by signing up on the bulletin board in the gym before Sunday, September 27. Freshmen are especially urged to enter. President Carter ;Davidson is of- fering a trophy to the winner this year. Competition is expected to be keen since neither the number one or two men of last spring's team will be competing. Since ten- nis was at low ebb last year, it is hoped that new .talent for the net team will be uncovered in the tournament. ---0>--- Fraternity Tennis The intramural tennis tourna- ment will begin some time next week. A team consists of four men, two for singles and two for doubles; no man may play in two matches. It will be an elimination tournament, with a team dropping out after its first loss. Entries are due at Art Law- rence's gym office not later than noon, Monday. Give yourself this Start-of_-the-Term Quiz lt will hefp you get better grades on your end-of-the-term quizzes ShaFpen your pencil and scratch your head for a few momertts. This \quickie\ quiz will save you a lot of head- scratching, hair-pulling and sleepless nights when those all· important finals come up at the end of the term. I. The New York Times brings you more news than any other newspaper. 2. The New York Times has the biggest staff of reporters and correspondents of any newspaper. 3. The New York Times has 100 corre· spondents overseas in all important world capitals. 4. The New York Times has~the biggest Washington bureau of any newspaper. 5. The New York Times has the biggest staff of sports writers of any news- paper. 6. The New York Times prints more of the news you need to help you in your courses. 7. Faculty members in colleges all over the U. S. read The New York Times and recommend it to their students. 8. Reading The New Yorlc Times every day can help you get better grades, and keep you interestingly informed. True False D D D D D 0 D 0 D 0 D 0 D 0 D D Spiedel, Medei, and Reed have L~n Klingberg, last year's total looked good, ap.d Klingberg is offense leader, is back at halfback, Kllngbepg.- The line is fast but,. and this could be his best year. He again, has little depth. Ted Mattie, is both a passing and a running husky center, should do a good job star and is expected to be Union's and adds a great deal to our for- big gun for the third consecutive ward wall. Joe Guerra, Bill Bloom- year. r-~---------~------~----------------------~-----~ I I Answers: If you answered \true\ to all the questions, you get 100%. And you'll get a lot closer to 100% on the exams that really count, if you read The New York Times every day to keep up with the news that will help you in your class work. You'll enjoy reading The Times, too ... its colorful sports pages, the movie, stage and book reviews, the food and fashion page, the daily crossword puzzle. To get The Times delivered right to your room every day, get in touch with y_our Times campus representative: I Grand Opening This Week ! t • field, and Jack McMahon shoulc;l .,also have good years. The line is The probable starting lineup: L. E.-Tom Manzi not big, but it has the necessary I THE REGENT ! t • A Schenectady Restaurant with New i t L. \J:'.-Sam Armstrong speed, which is importan . L. G.-John McMahon I rwdll not predict a record for this year's squad, as our record is merely a question of the health of .the team •.. Barring injuries, we have a fair to good teain; it is one which shoul!} give a good showing. It is one which certainly deserves the interest of us all. C-Ted Mattie R. G.-Joe Guerra R. T.~Bill Bloomfield R. E.-Dick Havill Q. B.-Don Reed L. H.-Leri Klingberg R. H.-George Woderzak F. B.-Mike Medei Beat St. Lawrence I York Sandwiches. 1 • • Sparkling Cleanliness and Streamlined l Service. 1 / I • Within Walking distance of the Campus. • Pet·fect for the Students' Needs. I I • Jay St. near City Hall Square 1 ---------------~~----~~--~---·-.~~--·~-~--~t 1'76 590/( ' Representative is MARTIN MEYERS Kappa Nu House

I' I ! 4 FRIDAY, SEPTEMQER 25,· 1953 Freshman Camp Hailed Top Scholars SUrvey Finds The Name's the Same Most Successful Ever ·Enrolled In Dogs Missing Concordy Means Union On Thursday, Se;ler!~~~~7~i~~ 01 tired freshmen clam- Class of' 57 . Recent mvesbga~wns ha~e The word is Concordiensis, a common place name around bered aboard waiting buses to take their leave of the Class. Welcome Class of 1957 ... ! disclosed a startlmg social Union, but how many of us know what it really means? o~ 1957 Freshma~ Camp. Regretfully, they left the camp The Concordiensis greets you change on campus. Union's Well oriented Freshh1en do not know; fraternity rushing site, located at Pilot Knob on Lake George but they could in their opening issue, and in fraternities are no longer go- chairmen don't know; not. even the staff~ of the Concord- sti'll hear the familiar rallying cry, \Let's o~ganize !\ which this article will present a ing to the dogs. The class of iensis knows. ® h.ad marked their stay. . ' worm's eye view of your acti- '57. h d . h 1 The only apparent answer must It H . d T d \Most Succesful Ever\ Termed by Mr. Wilford Ketz, Camp Director, as \the most suc- cessful ever run,\ this year's Fresh- ma:n Camp consisted of four full days of orientation and recreation. From reveille at 7 a.m., till taps at 10:30 p.m., the frosh were kept busy attending talks and discus- sions, playing ball, hiking, swim- ming, seeing movies, asking ques- tions, and getting to know their classmates. vities, back g r 0 u n d s and as entere a sc 00 that lie dormant in the. minds of such . appeae o. ay opinions. is no longer dominated by can- wen educated campus personalities. Masquerading· under this, I ho. ·pe, 0 ·z E h. . . as Johnathan F. Pearson III, ad-: · l S · X· .,b;t We find that there are 289 enter- mes. There has been a one- visor to the concordiensis and Di- .conftp;;ing title are several gems . It ·11 ing ~rosh, along with nine \re-' thh:d drop in the enrollment rector of Admissions; On being ap~ ~~o~~:~dyc~n;ge:.rom the extensiv~? F d peats ' from last year. These stu- . . . proached, Mr. Pearson dro'h sily . eatu· re . I dents were screened from among of d0gS at UniOn. Only seven scratched his bead, and answered Twenty Y&.trs Ago· Today . . · n 1000 applicants and had a compos-. are left. Numbers alone, however, with dismay, \I do not know.\ He \Concordy\ carried the news of 0 ite high school average of 87.3%. do not give the whole picture, for promptly suggested that misery a large turnout for the annual fall . z· d Chapel In this group were 20 valedictor- the dogs that once dominated the should find compan;v. \Dr. Huntley tennis tournament. Current re- ians and 8 .salutatorians. The class campus are now· gone. No Ionger was once editor of the paper, he is .sponse seems to indicate that it An <>xhibition of original oil of '57 is the i'eci·pient of $39,300 in will Union men thrill to the sight d·efinitely the one to see.\ could only have ha;ppened twenty paintings by Morris Davidson, Union College scholarships. The and sound of smelly Louie or Sam · 'For once the Dean's office 'V\ as. years ago. painter and art teacher, will open expression \easy ~orne, easy ~o\ from Phi Gam drowning out Dr. approached with confidence. Re-. Ten Years Ago Today at the Old Chapel Gallery on Sun- might well be applied to the fresh-, Tidmarsh's organ music. Nor will· fusing to scratch hi(! heacj., put. do- The following. headline appeared: Highlighting. the regular camp activities were the two hour boat ride on Lake George, the hilre up Buck Mountain, and the all-star basketball and baseball games. d S t man who dropped out of scho.ol.on they scurry for the nearest tree 1 ·ng a good J'ob w1 ·th h 1 · 6 ch 1 ·n, the \AlexancieJ;' Field Attacked By Air.\ ay, ep ember 27. th d d th b f f tti · Fw·ther research discloses that Mr. Davidson, whose teaching e secon ay . ere. Y · or e1 ng at the sight of a monstrous Saint Dean reluctantly· advised' th. at·. · th 500 d 11 U d 1 1 large quantities of explosives and has inspired many of Schen· ectad.v's e .o ars m n10n an oca Bernard\. Gone, too, are Patches, Bailey Hall v; as the seat of all' f b · J h 1 b t h d d ire boin s were used . • . sounds best artists, is attached this year sc o ars 1ps tha e was awar e . the boxer, and Tiger the \perhaps\ such historical Wisdom. As a final statistic, the group v;as. b. oxer. .like fun. (Actually it was a Civil Pearson Leads CUmb Early Monday morning, the freshmen started the charge up Buck Mountain. The hike was led by Jonathan Pearson, Director of Admissions, who ran up the entirE:' mountain, decked out in shorts and sneakers. Tvo.o hours and 2,334 feet later, (that's the correct alti- tude, frosh; contrary to rumor, Mt. Everest is a bit higher than Buck Mt.l, 184 tired, bedraggled fresh- men were draped over the top of the mountain, shivering in the cold wind. The view, as well as the climb, was breathtaking. The only casualty besides the many who had so1·e and blistered feet was Presi- dent Davidson, who suffered a sprained ankle. The camp, an annual affair since 1936, varied this year in that a new program of informality was initia- ted, in which the freshmen had more choice in their activities. Ac- cording to Mr. Ket.z, this was a big factor in the unusual success of the camp this year. \Students and staff both relaxed and had a fine time,\ he commented. The camp started off at a fast 'clip, so fast, in fact, that Dr. Arony bad to treat a cut lip, forehead, and a sprained ankle on the first day, compnred with the ~ix band- aids handed out during the entirE> session last year. The injuries slowed down after that, though, and no serious mishaps ocurred to anyone. v.:ith the possible excep- tion of freshman Mark Greenspan, the \official organizer,\ who had some excess hair removed from his scalp in the shape of a block \U.\ There was no inter-tPnt rivalry this year as in the past. It was re- placed by \class spirit,\ as evi- denced by the after-dinner and evening song fests, which were rrarked by loud and spiritPd sing- ing of the traditional songs: 0 Fred Z. Parks Passes Away On last June eleventh, after a short illness, Fred Z. Parks passed way. He had served with the athletic department a:s cu:stodian of equipment for twenty-nine years and had truly hecome an institution about Union. Fred was meticulous in his work and as Mr. Wittner, Director of Physical Education said, \invalu- able to the college.'' Freshmen would have to at;!just to his style of working, and during their first year some of them would refer to Fred as the \lion in the cage.\ Upperclassmen developed a genu- ine affection for him, and it, was not surprising that so many alumni visiting the campus dashed from their cars to Fred's office for a. good old talk. to the staff of the Schenectady Defe e d m t t' ) ·culled from 172 schools in 11 states. T·he Mystei'Y Solved · · ns · e ens ra lDn · Museum, wbere he will teach a Of course, there are some new Five Years Ago Today special class in oil painting begin- Coill!ments on Cafeteria dogs. Sigma Phi ·has a new boxer However on the way doV.·n the A giant pep ral.Jy was held to ning Monday evening, Septembei; From the cafeteria comes the re- and :b. U. has a shaggy dog, called stairs of the Administration I;Juild- bolster school spirt (Note: \School 28. Meanwhile, he will continue to port that this class has few com-· Kilroy. There are also the old ing v. e .passed a large door~open.' spil'it\ is a phrase from the past operate the Morris Davidson School plaints about the food, although standbys, but much of the spirit is This appeared to be P1·esident Dav- usually used to describe .supiJOrt of Painting in New York and most frosh feel that breakfast anci. gone. No longer does the canine . idson's Rl!mpus room-a spacious of athletic teams, etc., - support Provincetown, Massachusetts. lunch prices are too high. The crew disrupt half the classes in ·studio where many facts of great still found in a mild degree at An invitational opening of Mr. class has been a boon to Head Bailey Hall. The children of fac- importance might be mislaid. After Union). Our field house, now near~ Davidson's show will be held on Proctor Art La vue nee who said ulty and administration members a bit of explanation, Dr. Davidson, ing reality, had its ·start the same Sunday afternoon, with the artist that so far the clas of '57 is the are not in danger of being devour- drew himself up to his full ·statwe. · week with a_ fund raising \klclt- present. The exhibition will be best settled of any he has seen. ed by some overeager mascot Ep- \The name COncordiensis,\ he off\ dinner. opened to the public on Monday By and large, they are quite con-: pie, Siggy, Whiskey,· Boots, and mused, \was adopted from Latin One Year Ago Today during the. regular gallery hours, tent in their new environment and Co. do not have such inclinations. origins when the Union University Saw several cases of emergency 1 to 9 p.m., and continue for two have few complaints. Several felt, All is not lost, however. Lovers of :\as incorporated·in .1875. Thus it· first-aid administered to fraternity weeks, after which it will be shown however, that keeping the book- dogs, do not despair! CamPs thP IS found on the Latm seal of the. leaders impatiently sitting out a at the Schenectady Museum. store open for a few evenings im-. first prom and there will be plenty University. --------~·--=----=---- The Davidson exhibition will mediately after rl!gistration would of them on campus. \Literally he went on, \the Thus, our definition was found open a series of collaborative ef- ease the tedium of endless Jines. o word means. \Union\, .signifying and the quest was temporarily at forts by the College and the-Mu- Most are enjoying the rushing im- rr:any groups working in harmony. an end·. But in reconsidering, this seum in order to bring to Sche- mensely and don't feel that too Wed. Sept. 30, 1953, Garnet or- Union's Concordiensis, then, means circular definition seems to create nectady this season an outstanding much time is being taken from ganization meeting. Publications simply Union's Union, or is this a more problems than it solves. If series of shows of original works their studies. 75%- of those inter- office 7 :30. Needed: writers, photo- bit confusing? Incidentally, we an:Ybody asks ¥QU about the Coil- by American artists of the present viewed indicated that they want to graphers, artists. Experience not I owe a great debt to the Roman cordiensis, just say the whole thing and recent past. The series will join a fraternity. needed. ' civilization .•. \ . is a mystery .. i~~de ~~ctions of important An ~bresting cidelighl ~that----------~--------~~~~--------~~~~=~~--------- works from various New York gal- at the height of the confusion at leries, as well as individual and registration, two families appeared, group shows by leading artists of brought forth their eager looking this area. offspring and asked to be shown . ---o·--- the campus - Why? - Well they The first meeting of the Union wanted to consider Union as a College Flying Club will be held place for enrolling their offspring this Wednesday September 30. The in the class of 1958 . . . Please time of the meeting has .been set folks, restrain your enthusiasm. for. 7:30 in room 305 of the Civil The feelings of the members of Engineering Building. Movies \\ill the Class of '57 seem uniform on be shown. All interested students one point. That is their enthusiasm are invited. towards their future at Union. We :;. 'f. :f. hope this spirit of enthusiasm is All freshmen interested in the maintained and is manifested dur- Union College swimming team re- ing their stay here by outstanding port ot the pool at 4:00 p.m. Mon- scholastic, athletic, and social sue- day afternoon. · cesses. Not everyone may have realized that the above sign in.our windows is there for his protection. It is the sign of a trusted jew· eler signifying. registry in the American Gem Society. MARKETING STUDENTS! If you are Interested in using The Parker Pen Campany as a case history for a term paper on ad· vertising or marketing, we wm cooperate to the best of our ability. Just send your re- quest with detailed ques- tions to George Eddy, Ad- vertising Manager, The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wis. ·~ Will your pen write witn-·-~ out any pressure at all? These new Parkers will! They've been finished t~A-·~~~ incredibl? degree of smoothness by In his seventies, Fred was quiet but not senile. He invariably kept up his collection of calendars which was easily the best on cam- pus. He knew a great deal about Union athletics and his enthusiasm for the prowess of the teams never dwindled, though he rarely had the chance to see a game. Fred was always one of the first to know the. scores and those players who were outstanding. The shouts and cheers were part of hhn; he really never needed to hear them. This coveted membership must be re-won each year after strict examinations of gemological proficiency and unquestion- able business-ethics and practices. We are proud of this award, not in a boastful way, but because of the assur- ance it extends to those who have not yet dealt with this firm. an excluslve new .pen point, process \Electro-Polishing. it It employs a special solution charged with .-.,~,~--electricity which dissolves even the microscopic roughness that ~~-..'i§ might linger on the nibs. Resuli: \\\\'\\'-\'~·absclu te smoo:thness. You glide-·--\~ across paper. See these new Parker \51'\.and \2:1 Pens now at your · ,,~---de().ler's.. The Parker Pen company Janesville. Wisconsin, u.S.A.; • Toronto. Canada. Fred Parks will be remembered around this campus for a much ionger time than he spent here. It is with deep sorrow that we note his passing. First meeting of the Philo- mathian Debating Society, Monday evening Sept, 28 at 8:00 p.m. in the Bailey Hall English Reading room. R:&GISTERED JEWELER, AMERICAN, GEM SOCIETY ~''51'~~0·~,· Parker \51\ $12.50 • Parker \21\ $5.00 to $10,00 er Pen Comp:an)' Be.tter Schools build a stronger America I - Vol~ 81 1 c:o] N . . e·· .. .. ThE circ1;1lat: €1Ultoox .qordoyothi of· Beh asked w: drawing ~- ,: · that ·he \ ;~ ' .\ to keep · ' of the 1< (o·j Ijlngineei' l\ ~: :! ~:!r f::t: 1 ed the s l·l year and ~·~l You mal k j the cam] i ;.j torcycle, i; f only one ' BJ;'e miss , .. i~ cording , , l fight Ma i'l w!~~~ ~ ~.-l of circul ' ~ th:~ Con< L;~ .placed p 1 \ part of ?. i . (. i work as is· now a gineerinl the A. Mount was cir P,igh scl send ou1 students hi hopef tion of 1 ters are· tl:).e Idol, Then tl:).e edit' who wE Circulat so ph om( also gn High S1 of the and did staff. I the Du the Col the Rat M'b; Phil TM Phillip for the delphia. the Unl evening and 19 appeare lll!ty Wl 'later m ful mot Stewart Miss I acadeni ance. The1 :i8lii J:on -EEhlk. j\:lfred man h tion M: Tryo1 be held nights dents acting U .. N In c ance there~ United day, < transp1 'United priefiy ·tour 1 served! All conta.c lege re enm:m in,' B1

