9, 1955 ore,. with gov- in that wa:s been On~ .of to .pro- to ,000 peo- hom are as they ete11mine own that of em- a full- men. to the ·not do,\ in un- com- it and its em- cost to of the r. the need at each Vene- ere is no but the rigid laborers sepa- provided. of class also ... -,,.· Professor Morley ·Replies Read Page 2 Vol. 85, ·N.o. 12 According to Dr. Alan Brow'!l, new~y appointed Chai·rman ·of the Evening Division, the ne<~· pro-· gram is \the inevita'brle responsi\ hi.Jity J'or a college su:ch as Uni.on in a commun-ity such as this, in view• of the challenge ,1Jroth to high- ~ education a.nd industry at the present_ time.\ Previo'1.1Js to the change of policy, he .continued, Union V.as one of the few &C!hools giving co·uraes carrying college credit, but not leading to a degree, in the evening division. Same as Day Program Sili.ee only six •Q·redits a semester can ·be earned at the everting ses- sion, and 120 credits are needed for gradl,lation, there wm be few students who Teceive degrees on · these credits alone. Most of the · graduates iii the coming yeat·s will probably 'be transfer students who have sorr•e college credit before they begin their w10rk at Union. I / Campus Roundup There Vi ill be an 9pen meeting ct e&ts befo1·e January 16. If a of the Union Chapter of Sigma Xi student fails assembly, the failure at 8:3·0 p:m., Thursday, January 12, is noted on his grade report sheet. iil room 205 of the Biology build- il.sscnibly .grades arc .hang .. d'only ing. when a. note fro111 a marlier is Mr. Robert Slchaeffer of the sent to the Recorder's office. Cherr·istry Department wdll speak Tuesday, January 10-Assembly, on the topic \The -Determination 1 point. of Heavy Metals in lildustl!jal Vvednesday, January 1'1- Carr pus WastP Waters. Ro~ary. 1 point. * 7<- 1<· ' Friday, Jant·ar:y 13 Assembly, 1 The stud·ent branch of the .A,IEE point. Vdill' hold its monthly meeting Wed- Sunday, January 15--0rgan RPci- ilesday, January 11, at 7:30 P.M. tal, 2 ·points, in EE 22. There \\ill be no Sunday services Mr. Lloyd C. Har.tiott of the: on January 15, 22 or 29. General Jnngineering Laboratory of the General Electric ·Company \i>:lll be the speaker. He will give a: lectwre-derr.onstra.tion on the topic of servo-mechanisms. On Friday, Fe.brruary 17~ the Alll}E will ·):told a joint meeting Wlith the RPI student branch at RPi. Mr. Cyril Hoyler. of RCA. . •VIiiU present his pop:~la.r demon·stra- tion of color tele:v>isi<>n and other new developments in electronic:s. * * * The Recorder'S office has an-: notinced the · following opportuni- : ties f<>r stu.dent.s to earn chap~! * * * Students •who .want a supple- n •entary transcript mailed after the mid- term examinations should leave the.lr reqqest ?t the Recorder's Office before January 16th. Requests left be- fore this date ·V'i~ll have priority in :ml;l;iNhg, and reqtLe.sts received later Will not be mailed until after Fel:)ruary 1. You are urged to file you:r· requests fov supplementary transcri]lts NOW and indicate that they are a su:pplerr·enc to Y~>Ur previous transcript. Fourul:ed at Union College iu l877 SCHENECTADY,. N. Y., JANUARY 9. ·1956 • } ,. l Infirmary Receives rv :set Read Page 4 PRICE TEN CENTS Prexy Suggests Grant Go to Salary Increase

2 aJnurnr Member Associated Colle- giate Press and distrib· utor of the Collegiaw Digest. National Adver· tieing Representative!· Na· tiona! Adverti.,ing Service, inc., College Publishers Representa~ive, 420 Madi- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pu!J· lished every Friday of the school year. IDdltorial Office, Washburn Hal!; Union College, Pub• licaUon Office, The Ga- •ette Press, 334 State St. E:ntered in the Schenec• ta.dy Post Office as Sec- ond Class Mail Matter, subscription l,Oc a copy; $Z a year delivered any- lvher~ in the United States, SENIOR DOARD . JBRilOLD !. llllU:lCHE:::S '57 .. , .. FH2-9010 ........... Bditor-!n-Chief l~l.JW A ltD H. LANGHOLZ '57 ..... I•'H ~-l6U .............. l>Jsue gd.Jtur J·;DW ARD l'LOUS, JH. '57 .... , .. E:X 3-7778 ......... , Features Editor XUH'l'O::S H. HE:A:\!Elt '57 , .... , .. i•'H2-:171.0 ............ ;>;ews Editor HERBil:RT GILDEK '56 .......... lJ 16-~959 ........ Business '1\>lanager IH:;It;>;A!\D Cu!IE:!'; '56 ... , ...... FH2-;!611 L'lreuiation Manager JlJNIOR BOARD ROBEHT SCHARF '56 ........................ , ............. Art Editor PETER JATLOW '67 ........................................ Copy Editor CHARLES CARL '57 .... ,., .... , ........................ Activities Editor J l'LlA::S CHASE'MA;o.; ·57 ...........•..•. .::\1ational Ad\'ertising :.\Iauager STEPHEN K..\'AF'EL '57 •••.•..••.••..•..•..•...•.••.• Exchange Editor RONALD CLINE '57 •• , ••• , ••••• , ••..• , • • Local Advertising Manager REPOR'fERS Joel Buxbaum, Bruce Boklan, Peter ·Cassileth, Robert Cohen, Jacl<son Goddard, Mark Greenspan, Charles Hacltenyos, Richard Lewis, Daniel l'apernil<, ~lichael l'ir:cus, Joel Plat tuer, Ira Ha'lperin, 11obert Jessen, Benjamin l'hapnidt, Bernard Berkowitz, Ri~hard Sobel. FRESH!IIA:N STAFF Mordecai Braunstein, Robert Deming, Michael Enzer, Jerrold Fleisher, Leo Fritschier, Peter Goldfine, Arnold Goldschlager, W.illlam Gross, Anthony Guidarell!, Ksnneth Hasson, Bruce Haupman, Kenneth Hoyt, Hobert Kessler, Robert Kline, John KQvacik, Irwin Lunianskl, Robert Sallick, Gerald Selkowitz, Stefan Stein, James Swan, Richard Russack, Paul Jarvis. BUSINESS STA!o'F Joseph :llartorano, HoLert Steinberg, ~iari.in Stein. i{oLert CIRCULA:TI<lN STAFF David F'ink~l, Hobert Gordon. Ford Looks to the Future Last month's dramatic gift to American colleges from the Ford Foundation s.erves to underscore emphatically the answer to the dilemma of finaJ~cing higher educa;tion in the United States· Ever since the extinction of the beneficent philanthropist and his vast personal fortune, colleges have felt the pinch of increasing costs and unexpanding endow- ments. A few years ago, when today's great influx of students was just on the horizon, administration heads had virtually nowhere to turn for the aid which they would soon need desperately. Since that time, however, we have the first faint rumblings of cooperation, fortered by greater mutual understanding, between education and industry. Each has come to appreciate the other's importance in a nation whose gTmvth has always been a function of its ingenuity and productiveness. Pmgrams instituted by fin1:1s such as General Electric, who will match any employee's gift to his alma mater up to a total of one thousand dollars, were worthy of note in the early stages. The GE plan not only aids colleges through company grants, hut also serves to bring the need to the attention of those personally interested in the various schools. In addition, such programs are always in opera- tion, p1·oviding a constant flow, albeit orften a trickle, to the nation's colleges. nut the GE operation is far from com- monly accepted, and lump gifts have been too few and far between. If the trend was not to die a-borning, it needed a shock which would ove1·come the inertia of a situation long dor- mant. The Ford gift may be such a shock. The enormity of the grant itself, and the statements from the foundation 1·ecommending higher education as a worthwhile invest- ment, have called attention to the condition which exists. V\'e can only hope that these statements, have created an awareness among business leaders of the benefits accruing to American industry from its continued and undiminished sup·port of the nation's colleges and univ~rsities. Today's seemingly insatiable demand for college trained pe1·sonnel bears witness to industry's need for expanded higher educational facilities. Colleges, for their part, are confronted with a flood of applicants, and a shortage of space, The solution is obvious. N.H.R. • • • And on into the Night No. Pete, no! Two tomorrow and it's all over! \The Diary ()f Anne Frank'' By Theodore Smith se'lV'es awoay from the Nazis in the According to the New York hope of escaping persecution. tJheater oritics, the 1955-'56 sea- Seven people and later eight,. son has proved to be one of the through the good offices of Miep richest and most varied in several and Mr. Kraler, were kept alive decades. Among the play..s on the with food and f.Utel. roster- '\JaS the well-received drama, The play, tlwugh uncomplicated, The Diary of Anne Franlt. This managed to evok•e tears from the tiwo act play v.as adapted from audience as well as laughter, and· the recent book, Anne Frank: eX!citement as v.:>ell as serenity. The T.he Diary of a Young Girl, by pathetic Chanukah celebration Frances Goodrich and Albert skillfully delineates the flexibility Hackett. Th'e masterful direction of Gar-- of Anne as opposed to the rigidity of her elders. The heart Tending son Ra:nin skiillfiully v.1eaves to- attachment beilw·een Peter and gether such w•ell kmOiwn talents as Anne still has the humorous side- Joseph .sc·hlldkr.aut <Mr. Frank) lights of Mrs. Van Daan's pooses- and .Qu.sti Huber (MTs. Fra!)k) rwith the 'fine set designing of sive jealousy and Anne's primping Boris Aron.son. How·ever, the star before going to see her \love.\ of the show, in every sense of the The adapters atterrpt to drQ.w word, is Susan Strasbua:g, v.ho no moral and they do not dwell plays the role of Anne Frank.. on the shocking conclusion-the This is the story of a gil'l grow- discovery o.f the eight and their ing up. Anne encounters the prob- subsequent deportation. The ada.p- lems of a giTl torn l>et~een her ters merely record the spiritual fan::11y and a !boy, between the life of a girl in .a grim, dreary 'en- dependence of childhood and the virontr-ent. Despite adversity, she self-sufficiency of worna..nhood. had dreams of joy and happiness MiSjl Strasburg, tw•ho ha.s never be- rarely put on paper with as much fore appeared on the Broadway sincerity and pel\ception. stage, played her role with con- The play is .a record, too, of summate artistry. The figure of homely things and human r€'ac- Anne Frank could :becorr.e quite tions-gratitude for san•ctuary in maudlin were it not for the sensi- the garret, discipline needed to tive charactel\ization of Miss keep their presence a secret, petty Stras.burg. irritations, rebellion, treachery, The action of the play takes ridicule, callou.sness, love and for- piruce entir-ely in a loft of a ·ware- giveness. \The play is basically a house o~ned hy M·r, Frank in portrait of Anne,\ says Brooks Amsterdam. Mr. and Mr-s. Frank Atkinson of the New York Tirr.es, and their daughters, Margot and \keeping alive her interest in life, Ann~. along w~th Mr. and Ml\s. her faith in the S'VI\eetness of the Van Daa.n and their son, Peter, had passing moments, all her confi- joined forees and sealed them- dence in the future.\ For Your Information Monday, January 9. Christian Fel- l<JiWship, Hale House l<mnge, 7 P.M.; Flying Cluh, Devv~y Hall, 7:30 P.M.; Philomathean Society, Bailey Hall, 7:30 P.M.; Institute of Radio Engrs., EE-22, 8 P.M. Tuesday, January 10. MJlke-up tests: D>aily assembly, speakl.'r, Dr. Karlis Leyasmeyer, field representative of the Internation- al Christian Leadershi:p Move- ment, M\C noon, latvia; Civic MUJSic, The Plaza, Rorl>erta Peters, soprano, 8:30 P.M.; Co-rl'oSion Engr. Society, EE-22, 8 P.M. Wedn:esda.y, January 11. Mak:e-up tests;. Camp.us Rosary, OC, noon; Jewish Fel!OIWship, Silliman Hall, night; Sigma Xi meeting, Biology Lab. 205, 8 P.M. Friday, January 13. Daily asserr• bly, O'!'gan recital, Mr. Arthur Glover, MC, noon; Varsity bas- ketball, Union vs Rochester, 8:·30 P.M., Field House; Faculty bridge clu'b, Faculty lounge, 8 P.M.; Basketball, Nott Terrace High School vs Arr.sterdam High Scho<il, Gym, 8 P.M. Saturday, January 14. Varsity swimming, Union vs Rochester, 3 P.M.; Freshman rosketball, Un- ion vs. Hobart at Schenectady, 6:30P.M.; Varsity basketball, Un- ion vs Hohart at SC'henectady, 8:30P.M: noo.n; <Jhristian Assn., MC, noon; Su.nday, January 15. No Sunday The administration has made a wise decision in giVmg Episco.pal students meet with service; Organ recital, Mr. Al'bert h Father Horner, OC, 7:~0 P.M.; H MC 4 PM t e green light to the expansion of the Evening School Union -co.nege Student Chapter of ess, ' · ·. Division. This move represents another step on the part of AlEE, EE-22, 7:30 P.M. Mond~cy, January 16-Thursd!LY. · t't t' f ] · h 1 · t 'd 11 January 26, inc. Final examln- ms 1 u wns o ug er earnmg· o prov1 e more co ege- T!mrsda:y, January 12 , Fraternity ations. trained personnel for our nation's industry. -------------------------- From Student's Pockets Capable indivicluals who must wotk, during the day will be given an opportunity to obtain a college degree. This \Viii benefit the individual not only from an educational, but also from a practical point of view, because a college degree Three days after the announcement of the Ford Founda- opens the door to many additional types of employment, tion grant, Union students gathered together their quarters many of which are financially more remunerative than jobs. and half dollars to make up a gift for Professor James held by those without a diplorna. Morley_ Though infinitesimal by comparison, the $500 The reason these jobs do pay better salaries is that Christmas present t() Professor Morley surely stirred a college-trained persons are in large d€mand by big business. stronger feeling from him and his family than even the Ford Therefore. by expanding the evening program, Union is donation, in all its awesome immensity, had evoked from carrying out its half of its unwritten agreement with indus- its recipients. try by turning out the trained personnel necessary to insure Doub-tless, the Morley family could have used a gooo the. smooth fun:ctioning ?f our complex econoo:ny. It is :UP deal rnore than the anount contributed. And we had hoped !o mdustry to live up to 1ts share of the bargrun, by 'PrOVld- that the figure would 'be higher than it was. But the good mg ~he necessary funds. to enable institutions of higher will of the contributors, and the efforts of those responsible learmng not only to contmue as they I;tave in the past, but for bhe gift, are w01thy of the highest praise. We have also ~o expand, so that they can ke€1,} in step with our ex- often criticized the student hody here at Union, but now we pandmg economy. can't restrain a feeling of pride. E.S.L .. N.H.R. MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 1956 Tulips and Chimneys :By EdWBl'd aooe, Jr. While sitting serving two credits most famous pelitical figm:e was· chapel time the other day,. through not ther.e. Other friends of the a particularly pusi'lanimous Ol'gan mayot and a multitude of his en- recital, we dreamed of our exper- thusiastic admirers who .caused iences at two rather dramatically one not to be named faculty mem- different events oil January~s ber to ren:rarlt of the simila,rity to second: the coronations .of local the inauguration of Andrew Jack- political figures. son when his booted faithful Actually, we must in the inter- climbed over the reception furni- est of accuracy a4mlt that even ture in their rustic ebullience, in so noble, not to say sovereign, We heard the call of the other a country as Schenectady - to ·camp, however, and were off to which neighboring towns aspire- the County Courthouse where a officials are not truly <:oronated, .relati,ve~on our wife's side of the but it seems so. Be that as it may, Ia!llilY may we say- was being the governor himself had promised crowned Chairman of the Board of to be at one of these ceremonies ,Supervisors. The reception follow- and so to it we went first. An 1ng this official business repre- undefined virus prevented· his ap- sented: the good wishes of a party peara.nce, but Mayor Stratton per- different from that of th~ mayor's formed with sufficiently elegant -but we are our own Amphibia dignity to make anyone forget his when ·occasion demands. The pink absent Democratic fellow. pun·ch must have been gone when There was not a chapel c·redit we a.rrived fer we were handed a to be had nor music to be heard, highball by a supervisor .and but all the room and all the ha:ll though we argued meekly that we were filled wit'h sad, proud, eager, belonged to the Workers of the exclusive public u.nderworld, up- Concordiensis Temperance Upion per-world, sunny, shady, Republi- .we did eventually ingest it. can and Democratic Crowd:, One wizened • reader of spontaneous Ou:r sheriff IWho tbOUght he has comments from party headquarters yet to strap six-guns to hi.s ·Side was giving up his elected office and ride about on a big horse J.ike for the comfortable coattails of his famous counterpart in Los An- the resigning mayor; he was ap- gles County, has every •b-it as preciated as he had never been much fun, declared, kids day i~,t., by fo-llowers of the council minor- County JaH and, lacking pin:k puncn ity. There were other changes of to serve, the young Innocent made less distance sounding importance, a ·long tour of the jail do. It was and a former local basketball as well. It can be remember!!!l coach, easily the cutest, sweetest, that the election of 19 nelghpor- nicest, little man we have ever hood candidates elicits a more up- met, was back for another term. roarious and less dignified ceie- Soon, all •adjourned to a down- bration than one colorful minority stairs room in City Hall whel'e a mayor and &. colorless but faithful quitely noisy rec~ption took place. group of Majority. · It was attended. to by little· girls The ongan recita;l came \to· a who served pink 'punch to those quiet end\ and we waked with a members of the Union College start to find we had just one more community whose pictures are not ·credit to serve in lieu of $10.00 valuable campaign material-our bail. ------------------------- Letter to the Editor Professor James Morley, reci.pient of •a $541.50 Christmas gift from the Unlion student body, expressed hi.s gratitude in a letter received by the Concordiensis Tuesday, Jan- uary 3 Whic'h. appears below. Pro- fessor Morley is presently in a New Jersey Veteran's Administration Hospital recovering frotrn tubercu- losis. The gift, collected by a Student Council committee headed .by lief Booger, was origintally suggested at a Council meeting by Chairman .Stephen ..Holbrook. It was ama.ssed through a 'house to house canvas- ing of fraternities and dormitl}ries on Thursday, December 15. Booger and the other committee members, Robert Kline and William. Winter- steen, were impressed by the splended cooperation they received from all students approached. For All Your Paint .and Hardware Needs. See Us CAPITAL PAINT & HARDWARE CO. 726 STATE ST. Phone FR 4-4123 Serving Union's Men For Y·ears See your .agent on Campu~ UNITED CLEANERS Phone FR 4-5676 114 State St. near Ferry To the Student Body of Union College: I have never been more deeply moved than when I opened your letter and found your gift. I can- not help thinking back over the many ways I rn.a.y have failed you, bout yo·ur letter speaks your for- giveness and friend·ship. I shall never forget your •generosity, nor s·ha.ll I ever cease trying to be worthy of it. Witl1 your help, my family is being taken care of and I am steadily regaining my health. We all .look foriW-ard to seeing you again before long. Meanwhile, may Minerva pull you through at ·rrddyears, inspire you on weekends,. and sustain you un- til graduation ! Gratefully your.s, James Morley V.A.. Hospital, 8A East Orange, Ne;w Jersey. LIBERTY Shoe Repair 525 LIBERTY ST. FREE PICK-UP and DELIVERY Work done while you wait. Open Dally '7 A.M. - 6 P .M, Thurs till 9 P.M. .------------······----- ! FOR CAR TROUBLEs I SEE A UNION MAN i William H. Plath ! Auto Service t . • I 1372 Union St. ~ Schenectady Ph. 016-4895 ~-------------- At M. B. Graubart & Sons The Per.fect Place for the Perfect Diamond ! ou are also invited io usa our repair service. t)trnost care IS taken by our skilled workers to give you every reaso11 to be pleased. MONDA' uv In~ One~ not close Vermont It was :played 'b son, but crowd 2 things t< The teru but d·idn' that come starti'n.g f BoWl8r an mores ~ Baum, ar clos·e at t five and was 34-30 m<l'u.nts. one-two-tv b'he Verm In the c!lJJX•e •ba!C o\'n ,whi~ tack but ta,neously shots of :E of Baum, IW~th onl~ play. F Burlingto: spurt, sp2 ing of Sk 2a, peintSI, half. Th not tell t test as i1 way right .Baum Garnet w bounds. tive in tl:i teet. Na< Coach C loolting f• figures. With 'l an ankle proachin,!; as a fre Dre;WI La. forrr.\. th• a lot of RochesteJ coming ' HoQ.art, !Jamibert piled a season, a by Capt~ be judge ord•. Bu· prises 'VI Union c: S(},Phomol ence anc game. MerJ ,Alte: The sv to better Universit JanUJary pool. In lanemen Marshall 36, reS'p Williams Atonin early '3( ripped t Marshall of a poi In the Mishkin, Trask s first in : Beius a one-h'i•o and Nor di.d like style. ·The n then toe and the Cohen i new• evE breastet race w.h of hre~ freestyl~ In th~ ice wit! in frOD Chuck : Norm first pll 10() ya1 yal'd ba another this sc vard's : Th·e taken 1: the 400 M. In he jinx t'll them, 1 to Will HO'w'eV..E squad . the Ga to a di! only fii by Un' medley, and th The won !b) the in1 enough sohools

9, 1956 Was' of the his en- ,caused mem- ty to Jack- faithful jon furni- the other off to where a of the being Board of on follow- repre- a patty mayor's Amphibia The pink when handed a and that we rs of the Union it. ' he has his side horse like Los An- •!>it as day i~ puncti: made It was nelghpor- more up- ified ceie- minority ut faithful \to a with a more of $10.00 of Union ore deeply your I can- over the failed you, your for- I shall nor ing to be family is I am We you pull you you you un- ' s Morley wait. 6 P.M. _.._ __ BLEs ice 016-4895 MONDAY~ JANUARY 9. 1956 Mermen Meet Yellowjackets Friday ,Alter Beating McGill in Home Opener The sw~mm1,ag tean+ will be out<!:·--~------------­ to better its 2-1 record BJgainst the University of Rochester. on Friday, January 13, at the Yellowjackets' pool. In previous meets, the Mul- lanemen trounced ·Franklin and Marshall and McGill, 53-5-l and 52- 36, respeCitively, \\\ ihile oowing to Williarris, 49-35. cornbination of Trask, C(}hen, O'Neill and Bartner '.\as good enough to outswim the Williams relay squad. Outstanding perform- ances were tu'l\'led in b~ Willia1rs' ace diver, Buster Grassman, who set a neW> Williams rec·ord for the clive with 84.97 points, and by Pete Dietz in the distance events. Atoning for two defeats in the early '30's; the Garnet s'wlimmers ripped through the Franlillin and On December 16; th·e Mullan.emen Marshall team, taking eight out bounced right back by downing of a possi:ble ten fir&t places. McGill in the Foote Pool opener, In the 3()0 yard medley relay, Ed 52-36. Mishkin, Bob Kim, and Geprge The Sl\\immers started off \'ith Trask started the scoring v..ith a a victory in the individual medley. first in 3:06.1. Following this, Paul In the 220 yard freestyle, Belus Belus and Bill Havard finished and Havard had to ·be CJontent wjth one-two in the 220 yard freestyle, second and third, as they \ere and Novrr, Bartner and Jay O'Neill edged out by Cook of McGill, an did lik:e.wise in the 50 yard free- Olympic swimrroer from. Bermuda. style. • · In the 50 yard freestyle, how- • The ne.w• individll'al medley race ever, O'Neill and Bartner took first then took. place for the first time, and second to put the Garnet fur- and the·first record .·VI•ent to M!U·ty ther ahead, and a first place in Cohen in a tirre of 2;38.6. The the individual rr•edley by Huse fol- new• event has a 50 yard orthoctox lowed shortly. breaststrolke ad.ded to the 150 yard Gerry Anderson, f.ormer all- race which formerly was comprised American, broke the pool record ' of breaststroke, lbackstr(}ke and in the dive scoring 82 p,oints. Gary freestyle legs, each .50 yards long. Gilmor.e and Chuck Roberts took In the dive, F and: M broke the second and• third. The two Union ice with Giesy takdng first place divers shm'l'>ed a vast irrprovement in front of .Q-ary Gilmore and over their performances at F and Chuck Roberts. M. Norm Bartner took the s~ond Union then proceeded to take the . first place of the afternoon in the 100 yard freestyle, the 200 yard 1()0 yard freestyle. In the 200 · backstroke, and .the 200 yard yard backstroke, Marki Hoffer took breaststr-oke. Once again, Cook another first pLace fot Union, and scored in the 44{} yard freestyle this score 'V\Ias followed 11Y Ha- to climax a thrilling 1:ace in IW'hich vard's first in the 440. · he and Union's Bill Havard were The 200 yard breaststroke. was neck and neck until the last ten taken by Rupert Huse in 2:44, and yards. McGill took the 400 yard the 400 yard relay IW•ent to F and to end the meet. M. The first freshmen• siiVimmers, to In hopes of finally brealting the wJn a meet in uwo years sounded, jinx that Williams has had OlVer a bright hope for more po1wer for them, the mermen then travelled , next year's Varsity- squad. The to Williamstown on December 14. viciory was sc·ored over RPI's HO'w'ev,er, the speedy Williams· fresh!rnen, and the total damage squad proved to be too much for done w<a.S 49 points to 29 for the the Garnet, and tl:\ey went oow:n, Engineers. to a disappointinl;l' 49-35 defeat. The DoU'ble victories were registered only first places of the meet scored by DaNe Herman in the 150 yard by Union were in the individual individual medley and 100 yard medley, the '200 yard breaststrok.a, ba:ckstrolte, and by Lou Buckman and the 400 yard relay. in the 100 and 20a yard freestyle The individUal events woere both: events, and by Bill Trader in the won !by Rwpeort Huse, the time for 50 yard freestyle and the dive. The the individual med!ley bcing fast next fr,eshman contest will be enough for a new record for both against Al'bany Academy in Feb- schools, 2;29.9. In the relay, t.n.e ruary. What young people are Young scientist works ·on new ways to improve metals Today 1 scientists and engineers face one ()£ the toughest harriers o£ all - the \metal barrier.\ Modern technology has progressed so rapidly that today's metals can't meet the tremendous demands placed upon them. For such fields as aviation, electronics,. atomic energy, present metals must be improved and new kinds of materials must be developed. One of the young men playing a role in this new and important field is 30-year-old Dr. Roland P .. Carreker, Jr. Carreker's Work Interesting, Vital As a research associate in the General Elec- tric Resea~C'h Laboratory's Metals and Ceramics facility; Carreker's chief concern is the improvement of metals through new processing techniques. In his wor:k, Dr. Carreker has dealt with such important metallurgical problems as metal failure in high-speed turbine rotors, determining the strength of pure metals from -425°F, the temperature of liquid hydrogen, to 2,800°F and economic studies of new metallurgical processes. 25,000 College Graduates at General Electric When Carreker came to General Electric in 1947, he already knew the work he wanted to do. Like each of our 25,000 college· graduate em:ployees, he is given a chance to grow and realize his full potential. For Gen· eral Electric has long believed this: When fresh yonng minds are given freedom to make progress, everybody benefits - the in- dividual, the company, and the country. Educational Relations, General Electric Company, Schenectady 5, N. Y. Runners Prep In Field House For Indoor Meets The half 1nHlion dollar plus field house is proving its ver- sitaJi.ty early, according to Athletic Director, Hill Ketz. Ketz, who also coaches track and field, already has his runners condit·ionino· foe a dual meet schedul; which begins April 21 against Bates College at Union. He an- nounced, however, that he hopes to include some indoor meets in the schedule prior to this. san Filippo .. , . . .. .. 6 Myer ................ 4 D'Ln-no<·e11zo .... _ ... , 2 Rarandes .. , . . .. .. . . 2 Reed ....••... , ..... , 1 8 ·I 2 0 0 20 12 5 4 2 DR. ROLAND CARREKER jollied General l!:lectric in 1947 after receiving a B.S. in 1945 and an M.S. in 1947 at the University of Illinois. He received his Ph;D. in 1955 at R.P.I. under a G-E program. During World War II he served on active dntY as a·naval officer .. 4,0 2.4 1.0 0.8 0.4

4 MONDAY, JA~I.IARY 9, 19~6 Senia.rs Don.ate TV Set to Infirmary; Health Service Expresses Appreciation Larrabee _Reveals Neglected Franklin Winter Weekend In 250th Anniv~ersary Chapel Speec~ Affairs Set for \The people who say that He used his self-made leisure to I . '. they 'know' Benjamin Frank,. continue the self-improvement: Febrrua~y 24 25 A new television set was~ donated tG the college Health Service by AJ!bert Barsamian, Senior Class President, on behalf of the class of '56, Thursday, .January 5. The set, a 2t inch UHF-VHF Zenith ~:as installed by a committee 0f senior electrical engineet·s, headed by Douglas Buddenhagen. A cabinet was. !.milt fm· the set l.Jy l\lr. Wil- liam l\lathias, thus keeping the entire cost down to $215. At the pl'esentation ceren:onies, Dr. Robet·t Ra.!l'igh, college physic- ian, declared. \The Health Service appredatPs thi·s gift. I'm su.re the patients \\\ill' .appreciate -it even n:ore; it will give them something to do bc»id es study and ·Jook at each other.'' The idea ·of a television set for the Infirmary v. as first advanced in the 'Conc;ordiensis of March 18, 1955 by staff t:\eporter Michael Pin-. cus on a sugg€'stion by Head Nurse, Eleanor Samacki. In a feature article about the Inf-irmary, Pincus queried. \Why doesn't some cam- pus activity try to round up a television set?\ In thP dedication. Barsamian said. \Classes in the past have dedicated trees in Jackson's Gar- dens. The Class of '56 decided to give Union .son•ething 'VI:hich would both be practical and also serVP the nc'eus of the college commun- ity.'' Also in the Concordit-nsis of last. March. rnm tion was made of plans for a face-lifting. Over the sum- n ·er, the physical set-up was <hanged to give more economy of space. At the ·same tirr.l!, a smaJ.l kitchenette \Ht.s installed, and. a new examining table was pur- chasPd. A new nurse was added to the staff, Ylrs. MarguPrite CToss. ----o---- Mountebanks (Continued from Page 1) Othello \as thP feature attraction. The selection for the 1955-56 sea- son was to have been a Restoration Corroedy. 'The play reading com- mittee, ho1vever. vetoed the idea in favor of the two productions pres- ently prop\()sed. They felt that something more modern would be appreciated by the audience. Unable to agree on a single play, t\' o were decided upon. Moliere, Elliot, O'Casey, and Tenessee Wil- liams \ere all considered as possi- Lie vla.)'.-..tlghts !Jut v.cte discarded. Tht• cum.cu:y was chosen as a sort uf corrprontise, as it is -similar to Rcf'toration pieces but is still a bit on the bawdy side. - ---0---- !Jr. l.e;ntsmeyer !Continued from Page 1) v1an, English. German and Russian sctentbt» 1. majming in philosophy, psychology and other humanities. SulJseq uently, he earned there the de~ret'S of Ph.C. and Ph.·Mag.· Ph.D. in phi lo»ophy and psychology. HP did furth€'r post-graduate 1\0tk in \\\,•thill Collf>ge, Birrring· ham. England. Later he took ad- vanc<>d studil's in the School of Rt:~sian Hwnanities in Riga and wrote a th~\is on the Soviet Rus- ~inn pnliticnl. reonomi<'. and social sysl<>m. A ftPr 'World \Var II he did pmt-•r·adua.tp v.ork in Ger- many Dr. LPyasmPyer ha...-; personally cx.prr't·-nr,,J C'ommunist n-nd- Na-zi pPr~<>rlttion. In 1941 he was ar·· rPstPd hr :he Con•munists. tortured, and senten·<:ed to die. He faced a firing squad', but miraculously escaped death. Later, he survived the Nazi or-dea:ls. -----{)-- Joint Ateeting !C<mtinued from Page 1) Dr. Robert RaJeigh, cullege physician, 11atient Thoma.s J.<cJanagan, and Senim· Class ·President, Albert BarsamJa-n (left to right;)· sut-vey tht> class of 1956's gift to the infir:ma.ry, a 21 inch UHF-VH.F Zenith television set. Campus Problems Examined in Council Martin Ziac, captain of the volley ball tearr. which has alre.ady .played in intereollegia.te competition, a.&ked the C()uncil for school recognition of the sport. He told ·t:he Council that tb.e game produced good sportS'lllanship and· stated that it would be easy for a college of Union's size to produce a winning team every year. lin,. know only th:e Franklin of which had \'-on it for him in the· .· · · .. · · ' the first forty-two years.\ first place. . Tl).e Winter Weekend:, sponsored P1~ofessor Harold A. Larrabee, Tl\e modern :American su.ccess this year b\Y the House P-residents Ch . f th D\ . . . f seeker has adopted many .of Council, will' :b:e. h. e'!d, on .Fr. iday· · airman 0 e · 1VlS10n 0 Ftarrkilin's means in order to: ' S . · 1 St d\ b ht t and Saturd:;ty, Feb:tuacy 24 arid 25. · OCla U 1es, l'OUg. · OU oohie:ve su:ccess. Unfo-rtunately, As in the_ past, the :w>eekend wiJl· this po~nt in a speech given the ends ar;e too often. cast aside be . highlighted hy a Masquerade in noon chapel Tuesday, Janu- for the selftsh and' the personal. Ball, ·Friday night,. a jazz con- ary 3, in commemoration ·of · . •. . • 0 . cert Sat1.1rday aftercnoon, .• and :fra- . the 250th anniversary of Muszc Rec,tals ternity parties on SaturdaY night. Franklin's birth. (Continued from Pag;e 1) The Masquerade Ball wdll be In a brief statement of the ar- · Robet•t Glover, head of the De, held in the gymnasium.· ~c'h fra.- ticl.e he ~rote, \l'hich •I\ as pwb- partmer::tt of M~sic, ~rur~ College, ternity •will ·choose its own therr•e .lished in the January issue of -S~rmg.f~eld, _MIS~ouri,. ~.:11'1 enter- and dress _accordi-ngly. The tra- Harper's Magazine, Professor Lar-, t.am th.1s Fridays chapelg0ers. ditionally colorful il.nd variegated 1 · rabee ll·ent on to say that the.· Sunday, January 15, at 4 P.M., festivities• wdll iast until midnight ·average American thinks he lmows, Albert ~· Hess, forrr.erly head e_f • a,lid will be followed by fraternity Franklin too well. Fra·nklin's in-, the music .department of the Um•. parties until curfew: at 4 A.M. terests were so universal and vari- versity of Minnesota and Qirector As we ~o to press, the details of · ~d that he appc>als to a great, of the S~ciety of Ancient Instru- the Saturday afternoon· jazz con- . nuinbe•r of peopte. \The iegend,\ :uents, wrl! present a pro.gram of cert are as yet UIIlSettled. The commented the Franklinian expert,- mterest. . two bands still Ulhder eonsfd- '\only !lerves to obscure the real . Ne:x;t semesteT, c~nc-erts Will ?e eration are Rex Ste•l'lrart and his man.\ He stressed that the mis-· :51ven by Max R. Elsnerry, Orgamst band and Elfs Chos~n Six. Other mterpretation of the early li.fe of 1 and C)loirrna;;ter 0f Tniility Episco-. negotiations stiH pending are VYith Franklin has dv.a:rfed the signifi-' pal. Church, Watertoiln, and forrr.er the reollege and owners of various eance of the later years o-f this· t7a:cher of o_rgan and history of mu- meeting halls in dO·VI.ntOII'I n Schen- great, early-American stateazran. SIC at .f-Ia~tmgs C?llege; and Thea- ecta,d:y, If the gymnasium is not The average person .i:s quit~ ac- dore -C. Pier~e, D1re~tor o·f In:stru- available f>Or the conceTt the H.P.C. curately acquainted with the \self- rr•enta1 . Mu.stc, Cushmg Academy, wU~ attempt to secure ·<t puiblic' made,\ '\self-educated ·• Ben Frank- Ash'burnham, Mass., Chapel' Organ- hal'!. One .possi'hility is the Polish\ lin of the Poor Rich~.rd era; with i~t, and instructo<r ill; org~n and· American Hall. the starving, penny-pinching, thrif- piano. These 1mo artists vn!I per\ ty, self-improving man. The many fo1·m on February _7. and February misinter.pretations of the purposes 16 and 17, respe-ctrve!y. of this man, the false idea that he had as his ultin•ate goal, sue-·· cess~fot·~the-sake-of-success., has led to the idolization of Franltlin as Mr. Dona;Id W. Boyd, instruc- . tor in Geology oat Union since : Septembe:r, 1953, will leave the . a perfect Horatio Alger. . Insight into the life of Fran·l.lin, foliO\'\ in~ his early reti·rt'rr•ent at the aile of forty-tw.o, shPds ne•VI light on the man's goals. Franklin \mad•e his pile\ by the hard w.ork, the industry, and all the myriad of pieties associated with his story; however, he used his hard ·~·On wealth as a means of bettering both himself and those about him. · · college at the E>nd of file pre- ·sent academic sem.ester to ac- cept a position a,s .Aissistant · Profesor of Geology at tlle Uni- versity of Wyoming. :R.et>ladng, him on the Union faculty will . be Ml1. Marc \'V. Bodine. Jr., who is currently completing his · graduate work at ·Columbia Uni\ 1 versity. · L. 0~ BALFOUR CO. Frafer11lfy Jewelers BADGES -RINGS - FAVORS JlllWELRY LEATHEB GIFTS· STATIOJslm,Y • PROGRAMS CLUB PiNS - KEYS MEDALS. - TROPHIES Write o~ Can CARL SORENSEN 30 Murray Ave., Waterford, N.Y. PHONE TROY-ADAMS ·8-25!3 Dean C. William Huntley ¥<as present at the meeting to give the administration's reasons for the liC'ensing of student cars on the cam·pus, and for changing the parlting regulations. According to the Dean, more cars are 'on camr>us this year than ~ver before because of the increase in student owned vehicles. The problem is made even worse ·~'hen night school students and ·concert goers also park here. To .rraintain the beauty of the grounds, to make it possible for fire engines to use the college lanes, and to ,prevent auto acci- dents when icy conditions prevail, students will not he allQowed to park on c.ampus. However, they l'l·ill be permitted to use the West Colkg,· and Fi<>ln Ho~J~<> pnrking- lot~. PACKS MORE PLEASURE U r~e Road Repairs A petition from the Phi Sigma Kappa Fraternity ·\as read urging the repair of the hazardous road betJween West College anq North Terrace Lane and requesting per· mission for students to park briefly in f-ront of tile Administration building to conduct .business. The Council voted on the six-point pe· tition and agree-d v.ith most of the suggestions n .ade by the fraternity. The Dean answered the ques- tions put forth by Co·uncil rr•embers and said that the price of cam!)US license platPs wou.ld pro'bably be three instead of five dollars apiece, refundable u·pon leaving college. He went on to say that night school students v. >Ould not be re- quired to obtain licenses. Dean Huntley suggested that he discuss the matter in chapel with the student b{ldy and follow· it ·v.. ith a question period. The Council agreed \\ith the plan so that all students ·could be informed of the proposed changes. because it's More Perkctly Packed! A motion was made to consider changing the ti.rr,e of the Sunday chapel service from 11:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. The reasons given >~ere that it VI'Duld permit many students ·~ho regularly attend -churches of- their choice to hear sermons de- livered by guest spea;kers. Also, attendance might be increased if the service were held later in the day. Regarding the proposed change in the ho'l!r of Sunday chapel President Davidson thought that consideration of it now was apro- pos in view· O<f the fact that a new music directo-r is breing consider- ed. Lynn Einman suggested that The Council was inforrr ed that more people frOIIU the city would the main reason for the present attend a Sunday afternoon chapel hour of ':'orship .is to give !he, Salt~ ~urse,Vwith. a Milder, Better-Tasting smoke- ~acked for more pleasure by exclusive Accu·Ray service. college radio puhhc1ty. The rr.otton Athkti<' Di t•<'<'tor KPtz gave a, \';oa.B tabled• t? giv_e the members ~\'\'imP of thr- rtthl<>iil' prog-rnm on t1me to co-ns1d~r tf tne prop?sed' l'a.rnpu.s and whHt jq in stor!' for change ·V>ould b·e more convenient thP futurP. <1Prnlcl DrPRsq movrd that the ~----------~:~::-~,;r~~~~~-:::::-·-------1 which entitl·es you to special College prices at DAMBROSE CLEANERS I 637 Nott Street 1 ''.lust around the corner from Green Gate\ 1 IJnion College courtesy cards are available to J ~=~~~:::::~::~~=~~- The nore perfectly pcackedyour (:igarette, the more ·pleasure it sives • . . and Accu-Ray packs Chesterfield far more perfectly. To the touch ••• to t.he taste, Firm ~nd pleasing to the lips an Accu-Ray Chesterfield satis- ••• mild yet deeply. satisfying to fies the most ••. burns more the taste- Chesterfield alone is .evenly, smokes much smoother. pleasure-packed by Accu-R,ay. CHESTERFIELD Jt([ILD, YET THEY S'a:ti&#f I .. l3i) liGOiliT& MYERS TOBACcO Q), Rt V()l. 85, No. Rex~ ToE At 1 Early tl Sutk~, P H.P.C., rele the f0rtl Weekend querade a: The Masqu ture the lY thony aiH while Rex~ to the can Concert. sale shortl~ prke of $2 As yet no fraternity co: been decide( ·be considere the H.P.C. T mittee of H posed of MiD: Theta Pi, Fr and Joe S.tJ.tl handled the far. On Tw mittee •will rr H.P.C. and be zrrade. The Masc night, will continue to be a ten-pi male vocalif Anthony grc since 11t4S throughout 1 wdth appear Cornell, Dar The jazz afternoon 'W' !ish NatioiJ Street, fro-n: Dance Com the large pa of the dance mak'€ the j: success tha: pa.st. Rex .ste:~ Duke Ellil\ over the v.•o iar to free Line Restau Vermont st: also appear New York the Radio has rr•ade with the N and has a! Australia. both Blue•ba cording con Chan: Bill Char the sPxtet l with BuddJ Dorsey. .s: gan playin! way:, .v.Jll section. Bi member of ganization, In addition Calloway, t Five Spiri Cramer, fol Dixie Kin~; handle the the sax. Grantl Study Summ There ar of Interna arships OI during the for the su jority are the summt the others study. ,fl.ustria ships \\hie Open to u: zens, they stipends enough to as v.ell a expenses. a·pproxima to each c ners~ but be paid b: 'l'he -a\W study at ~ institution all fields eluding hi literature. i n.cl'Uide 'U •<Col

