OecUpus Rex Page 2 VOL. 81, No. 16 Music Piped lnto Delphic Blood Drive WRUC provided the mu- sic as the Delphic Society conducted its blood drive Wednesday and Thursd3,y in the Alumni Gym. Accord- ~ ing to a .spokesman for .the committee, 368 pints were donated, ten pint!' short of last years record. The Union radio station broad- ·casted from the g-ym throughout the ·drive. Intey.views were held with donors. Perfonning this \ailll.bitious\ move for the fi-rst time. tlie station's work was ap- preciated by tM society which felt that it should be repeated in the future, according to Karl Mey- ers, chairman o~ the drive. Pledges totalled 470 points. Ap- proximately 80 were rejected for technicaol reasons. T):lirty ·broth- ers of Delta Chi fraternity were. eliminated because of the infec- tious hepatitus whiCh bad striek- en membel's of the house. Dr. Myron Weaver, .college phy- sician was commended by the Delphlc Society for his \superb · job.\ Over 20 pints were given by the faculty and s~aff members. who had not pledged. Hillel Nominations The Hillel CounselorE;hip 'Will meet at 7:30 P.M. on Monday. March 10 in Silliman Hall. Nom- Inations for new officers will take place. Following nomin<t: tions for new officeJC§ Ra:bbl Joshua. Epstein will speak on ~r­ th.lldox Ju,daism. This is the th1rd and last in :the successful series of lectures on the three aspects ·of Judaism. • Founded at Union College ba 1877 SCHENECTADY,. N. Y!, MARCH 7, 1958 -Photo by Schenectady Gazette Edwa.rd ~uth (left)· and Peter Herman, rewesenting the swim- ming team, present Director of Athletics, Wilfred Ke17L with the Ray Mullane SwiJDJrnling Troplcy, The aWJard wlll be presented annill!lly to the squad's outstanding member. lointGro.up ·Gives Final Rus·h Report The final report of the Joint . committee on Rushin.g was for- ma;lly accepted by the Student Council at its Tuesday night, March 3, meeting. Despite strong sentiment in the· Council that the report lacked \the swee.ping foresight to correct the evils of the present system of rushing,\ President of the Student Body John Glass urged that it be accepted ·and forwarded to the House Pr-esident's Council, which is expected to act on it at its March 18 meeting. The report suggested a three week periot! of less intensive rushing under which the fresh- men would rush the houses more. Objects to Violations The five man committee, which included a chairii'an from both the Student Council and the HPC, objected to the \prevalence of rule violations by individuals, ex- cessive .consumption of time and poor freshman-fraternity rela- tions.\ Although the administration has not favored extended rushing in the past, it was felt that the pro- A hl R ·· posals of the committee repre- . t · etes · eceive Trophies . ·~!.~~~ d~fe~~~: r:~r;~n:;~~ t:e A W • s current system. Jerry Waite, · t . tnter ports Banquet. ~~!:::M~Fs t~~aF~etol~u!!: week rushing period of low inten- sity stands a good chance of be- ing apprGved by the HPC.\ Act on Weekend Rowdiness • Sports Summary Page 3 PRICE TEN CENTS Greunther to Addr·ess U nionCommencement By Robert Nover General Alfred M. Gruenther, present head of the American Red Cross, will deliver the major address at commencement exercises on June 15 for the Class of 1958 . ------------~He will also serve as Honor- ~EN. ALFRED GRUENTHER ary Chancellor of Union Col- lege during the academic year 1958-1959. Gruenther's appointment was announced yesterday by Carter David- son. General Gruenther will receive the honorary degree of Doctor of Law. As head of the American Red ·Cross, Gruenther is in charge of supervising all of the various ac- tivities of that organization throughout the country. General Gruenther, previous to assuming his present :position on January 2, 1S57, served for 38 years as a United States Arn'ly officer. A native of Platte Center, Ne- braska, Gruenther attende\d West Point Military .Academy and was .commissioned a second lieutenant in the field aritllery. He was sub- sequently graduated from the Command and General Staff s.chool . and the Army War Col- lege. In the period between the two world wars, he served as pro- fessor of mathematics and elec- tricity at West Point. In October 1943 he became deputy chief of Dr. ·\Smiley\ Blanton, Di·rector staff; and following Pearl Harbor he was appointed chief of staff of of the American Foundation of. the third army. '\Smiley' Blanton To Give Speech Religion and Psychiatry, will During the war Gruenther speak on Religion and Psycbiat;ry, served throughout the North Uri- Monday, March 10 at 8 P.M. in can, Sicilian and Italian cam- Memorial Chapel. Two points paigns. In .August 1944, for his chapel credit will be given, work during the war, he was A one-time associate of Sig- awarded with promotion to perm- round Freud, Dr. Blanton 'has. anent lieutenant general. During compiled. a brilliant career as an: th~J war he won many decorations educator, holding teaching posts .including the Bronze Star and the at the University of Wisconsin, Legion of Merit. the University of !Minnesota., Vas- B Co sar College, and most recently at ecomes Deputy D1Dl.l11lder his alma mater Vanderbilt Uni- .After ·the defeat of Germany, versity. ' · Gruenther became deputy com- mander,. under General 'MaJ;k Clark, of American for.ces in Aus- ' tria. While in Austria he ar- ranged, at Vienna, the first meet- ing of the four member Allied : Conference. Professor David R. R. :B11rt, of St. Andrews University wili address · a $igma Xi Meeting on Wednesday, March 12. Pro- fessor Burt will speak on the Natural History of the Ant Lion.\ The meeting will be held in Biolog-y 205 at 8:iHl. Character Research Project Explored From 1945-1947 General Gruen- ther served as deputy conunander of the National War College in Washington, D. C. In October 1947 he assumed. the newly estab- lished post of director of the Joint Chiefs of Sta.ff and in September 1949 he was named Arm~ deputy chief of staff for plans: When General Eisenhower was designated on December 19, 1950 as Supreme Allied Commander in Europe, he selected Gruenther as his Chief of Staff. When Eisen- hower was elected President, Gruenther assumed the post of Supreme Commander of the At· !antic Alliance. ---o--- M.I.T.Dean Visits Union Dr. Francis Bitter, Profes- sor of Physics and Associate Dean of the School of Sci- ence at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, will serve as a visiting lecturer from Monday to Wednesday, March 10 to 12. While here, Dr. Bitter will be the guest of Professor Harold E. Way, Chairman of the Depart. ment of P):lysics, and will give lectures. talk with students, and assist faculty members with cur- riculum and research problems in physics. Professor Bitter is noted for his application of modern physics and atomic structure to the un- derstanding of the mechanical and magnetic properties of metals and for his studies of nuclear structure by means of spectro- scopy. He received the A.B. and Ph.D. degrees from Columbia Univer- sity, studied in Berlin and was a National Research Fellow at Princeton University and the Cali- fornia Institute of Technolog-y. He formerly was a research engineer with the Westinghouse Electric (Continued on Page 4)

2 C!rnnr.nr Published Fridays during the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. .:\atlonal Advertising Rep- resent.ati ve: Xatlonal Ad- vertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Repre- seutative, 4'0 li'Iadi~on Ave., N. Y. C. Editorial Office,Washburn Hall, Union College, Pub- lication Office, The Ga- zette Press, :!34 ::Jtu.te ::it. Elltered 111 the :::>chenec- tadv Post Office as Se<>- otu.i l'lass :Uall ~latter, subs~:riptlon lOc a copy ; $2 a rear delivered any- where in the Cn!ted States. Unsolved Problems After four months of deliberation, the Joint House PrEsidents'-Student Council Committee on Rushing has rel€ased its \proposed solutions\ to the \present prob- lems\. (See page one.) None can deny that there are problems in the present rushing system, and some of them have been brought be- fore the Committee. Neither freshmen nor fratemity members have an adequate period to \xush\ each other duing the first hectic weeks of classes. Scholastic inter- ests must be neglected and the freshman frequently finds himself behind, academically, before he has begun. Campus activities cannot help suffering, for no fresh- man would dare leave his room to write a.n article or parti- cipate in a debate for fear of missing the knock on the door, Of 85 high school letter winners, for instance, only 25 reported to freshman football practice. The class, as a whole, cannot be integrated for Uni(;m's ne,vest students scarcely have met each other by the t1me bids are distributed. How can strong college spirit be ask- ed for in such circumstances? In a very short time, fresh- men think not of the Colleg-e as a whole, but only of the one-seYenteenth to which they belong. Aware of the difficulties the Committee met and at- tempted to develop solutions for them. Instead of clear- cut answers we receive weak sugg·estions which will cure none of the present ills. It appears as though fear~of change is greater than the fear of perpetuating the faults of the present system of rushing. Earlier in the year we wrote, \our present rushing system has been unmodified for five years. Its defects are obvious and we can no longer refuse to face the prob- lem.\ We have added a sixth year to the stagnation and continue to refuse to face the problem. DSP Honorable Mention When in the course of human events it becomes evi- dent that improvements of one sort or another are both possible and necessary, the obvious and sensible course is to make the improvements. Difficult as it may be to con- ceive, there are still improvements to be made at Union College. One improvement which should be kept in mind -kept in mind, because unfo1tunately the way things are moving it does not seem likel.r that it will be put into practice-is the institution of an Honors Progmm. The scholastic desirability of the Honors Program has been discussed at some length before in this space. How- ever, it seems that a discussion of scholastic desirability is not the correct approach. What is surprising is the fact tha. t the administration of Union College, whose chief function in li.fe seems to be acquiring fm· this institution a t·eputation commensurate with its assumed academic worth, has overlooked the fact that Honors ProgTams have a certain prestige value. Therefore, for the sake of pres- tige alone, the installation of Honors might be worth the effort. ., Friday, March 7, 1958 Dr. Burt and Ceylon The Musical Box By Lynn H. Ratner At a recent and pleasant inter- view with Dr. David R. R. Burt, St. Andrew's affable -emissary to Union College, the claim :n:iad'e by this reporter .that the zoological- ly-minded Scotsman is a cosmo- politan traveller \of sorts\ was heartily disputed. \Do you think I have ants in my pants!\ he re- torted jesting·ly when we asked him if .he ·liked the cosmopolitan role he is pursuing. For although Dr. Burt has so- journed in Ceylon l the period act- ualiy lasted a full 22 years) as a Professor ·Of Zoology at the Uni- versity of Ceylon and although he plans to take his wife, son and daughter across the United States d.t the end of the present school year, the likeable Scotsman is p imarily a zoologist and a fam- ily man. The comparative anatomy lab- oratory on Tuesday afternoons is the site of many an interesting conversation with the ruddy-nosed fellow on topics as widely di- vergent as the status of the soc- ialistic M.D. in Great Britain and the proper methods for shooting Ceylonese elephants. (Dr. Burt likes to tell of the big one that didn't get away). And prompt- ing the discussions is the pet·son- able Dr. But•t himself. Desiring him to expand on his ideas and opinions of people and places, we requested an interview with him one day this week. Al- ter some hesitation the man from across the sea consented. On Thursday morning at 11;00 A.M. we found ourselves seated oppos- ite Dr. Burt in his office <the per- manent office of the temporarily ·dispossessed Dr. Clark) in the Bi- ology Building. He was wearing a wide collared blue oxford shirt with a ·broad bottomed blue and red striped tie and was momen- tarily interrupted by his secre- tary who entered with a steaming cup of coffee. After taking a sip of the liquid. Dr. Burt began his reflections. dominating impression on Dr. Burt's mind. \Ceylon is very By Paul Freundllcll. g<~•een,\ he says, and adds, \The By Paul Freundlich Manne ·con-tinues· in the vanguard gardens were luxurious with tropi- About the time that March stops of jazz experimentation. He was cal trees. of which the flowerjng roa1•lng like a lion and starts featured in the .movie, The 1\lan trees were most magnificent.\ The bleating lil'e a lamp•, ErroH Gar-· With the Golden Arm and has university is located in the dty ner wil! arrive at Union with his made a gre-at >success with his jruz~ of Co!ofnbo where the normal own• distinctive sound. It would interpretations of show -music, as range of :temperature was 80-85 be· hard to find a more popular in My Fair Lady, Manne is pre- degrees the year round. Within choice for a concert than Garne'I'. occupied in the use of drum as a an -hour or two of the city was His·· style is ·light and breezy- horn, rather -than ju~t a keeper the cooler climate of the hills. easily appreciacted by the general of the beat. By the use of com- \Although Colombo is about twice public. The delayed left-hand. the binations .of different drums and the size of Schenectady in .popu- melodic, lytica:l playing and the cymbals. he produces an amazing lation,\ remarks Dr. Burt, \it constant swinging have all be- sound. }Vith •pianist Russ Free- never gave you .the impression of come ·Garner trademarks. Yet man he delved into the .possibili- being crowded.'' The university, Erroll Garner can only be typed ties of dissonance, while his later whose enrollment in 1924 when in terms of himself, not of any collaborations wHh Andre Previn Dr. Burt arrived in Ceylon, :was musical \school.\ He is not a are more :P·leasing to the untutor- a;bout 200 and which has since· modernist, but -closer perhaps to ed. ear. increased to over 1,600, is now the tradition of Fats Waller. Manne has also been one of the located in t-he 'hi!ls of Peradeniya. Theve ·is nobody quite like him leading exponents· of written im- As such, it 'is built on a site loaned around. pro'Visation. 'VolUJne T'wo of Shel- to. the American forces during The concert will be presented ly !Manne and His Men (Contem~ the war (its cricket Pitch -is the by the Modern Jazz Society .and porary 2511) containing complete- GI's former baseball field). the jun-ior class, March 2.2, and ~Y w-.ritten· compositions, working I<Vith the zeal of a true scientist should make for an entertaini\ng with two 'trumpets, trombone and Dr. Burt remembers Ceylon for evening. Tickets are on sale al- tuba 'besides the rhythm section. another reason. \It was a zoo- most everywhere. remains as the finest exposition !agist's paradise,\ he says with To the Sublime of his ideas. For controlled enthusiasm, \·because in the trap- . One Qf the mast interesti-ng and swin~-ing, . for perceptivity, for ics living things arc more varied unpressive symphonies ever writ- emotiOnal- 1mpact, Shelly Manne's and numerous.\ ten is Mozart's Symphony No. 38 rec~rds are basic to any jazz col, The Five Burts (P.rague). It is impressive for .its lectiOn, power and melodic line. It is in- o•--- When the Burts left Ceylon, teresting because it sta.nds as· a Hutton Discusses Russia Susan. the youngest in the fam- direct influence on t-he latter work ily, was four and one-half years f B h old, Michael, the middle child. 0 eet oven. ':[\he best recording was eight and one-half, and >their is .on Westminster CWN-18116). oldest child, James, was 13, James SWinging Manne is a biochemist. presently com- Continuing last week's discus- .pletiug his Ph.D. thesis. He re- sion of modern jazz -groups, Shelly ceived the bulk of his secondary school_education in Ceylon. M.ike attends Union at this time and his younger sister is a student at Nott Terrace High School.' Both Mike and Susan are tak- ing advan-tage of subjects they normally would not be able to take in Scotland. Music and American Literature are two sub- jects occupying Mike's time while Susan is studying Spanish. Foreirr.sc on the summer ag-en- da for the Burt family is a cross- country jaunt. The means of tr'ansporta tion: Station wag~n and tent \plus hotels and what- not.\ There's a lot of lov-ely thin-gs to be seen,\ says our adc miring visitor who has been spurred on to the thought of the trip by the color slides of America that he bas seen. \It's whetted our appetites:' he notes. . I PROCTOR'S tyrone Power - Marlene Dietrich , Charles Laughton .. WITNESS FOR THE PROSECUTION\ -2nd Hit- '\DEEP ADVENTURE\ P:LAZA MARl~ LANZA in \SEVEN HILLS OF ROME\ -2nd Hit- RAY MILLAND in \THE SAFECRACKER\ STATE \AND GOD CREATED · The International Relations Club win present Doctor John ·G. Hutton at 7:30 P.M. on Tues-day, March 1.1 in Room 113 of the Psychology B'uildlng. His topic will\ be Impl'essions of Russia. f------·-------------...; : We Will Fix Your ~ f E·l:ECTRIC _t : RAZOR i • ~ at : t • SHAVE'R : SIRV:ICE • I t t Dry Shaving Access- t • o'ries and Parts ~ J Gar/gel Repairing t 92>1'% State Street ;. ____ ::_~~~~~::~--·-J \I don't find any difference in students wherever I go-,'' he told us. \They're all people,\ was the conclusion drawn on the basis of 22 years teaching experience among the Ceylonese, quite a few years at St. Andrews and approx- imately 6 months at Union. \I must say,\ he added in his Scotish dialect, \that on faculty here I've made a great many friends. It's on the> credit side of the ex- change.'' Ceylon's People D1•. Burt admires the drive and initiative of the Ceylonese people among whom the Burts spent many -happy years. \When I went to Ceylon in 1924, there was one Ceylonese ·profe>ssor on the staff of the college. When I left in 1946 I was the only European profes- sor on the staff,\ notes the zoolo- gist. As chairman of the zoologi- I'Rl st'ction of an a.~~ociation for the advancement of science. which the Ceylonese started on their own initiative, Dr. Burt was \very pleased -to see not only so many of my old students, but so man;v Ceylonese\ at an original meeting of the group. At that meeting not more than a dozen Europeans were present. The good pro!essor has been awarded a grant from the Car- negie Trust at St. Andrews to study American museum tech- nique and presentation and to carry out a collecting program of· bird parasites (his specialty is parasitology) in this state and other palis of the United States. These areas include the Mississip- pi River Valley, the Bear River marshes in northern Utah, and CaHfornia. WOMAN'' \CITY OF GOLD\ r----------------------• I For All Your Paint : ! and Hardware Needs I I . t • See Us I ,, . jCAPITOL PAINT &I ., HARDWARE co. I RIJ'Z RESTAURANT OPEN DAILY II :00 to I 2:00 CLOSED SUNDAYS Ste-aks. Seafood and 'Italian Foods Our Specialty WE CATER Injection Inventor \Ve had spent the better part of an hour talking to Dr. Burt and we now rose to leave. \Hold on a minute!\ we were bid. \The1'e is one paint about which I'm con- ceited.\ In Nature magazine in 1928 an article was publish-ed which gave for the first time in- structions on the injection of lab- I 730 STATE ST. l I I Phone FR 4-4123 . I ' . ~--~------·-----------J TO ·BAN9Uns Dl 6·9666 1725 Vetn Vranken Ave. Of course, it is not prestige that we as students are primarily interested in. The prestige value of Hondrs is no mol'e than a result of the fact that educators in general have recognized its value as an educational device. We might rehearse for a few sentences the- reason for such recognition: Honors is a Program \vhereby advanced students are permitted to choose their ov.n topics of study and to pro- ceed on them individually. The \56\ courses offered here opem{e more ot· less after this fashit>n. However, the in- terest in \G6\ courses is perhaps not so widespread as it might be, la1·gely because the rewards proceeding from them are not so distinctive as they might be. However, virtually all that is needed to convert Union's \56\ pro- gram into an \Honors Program\ is a change of name an expansion of purpose, and the establishment of Ho~ors Deg-Tees for commencement purposes. In the political sphere as well as the scientific the Ceylonese have made strides toward auton- omy. But in regard to Dr. Burt's essentiajly universal view of the people the world over, that is, that people are basically the same, he notes, \They have done what you do and what we do- organize thPir own sociPty and their scien- tific work. I'll say this-that the more responsibility they got, the more they were able to take.\ ot·atory animals with rubber latex. The article's author was Dr. Burt. All the common animals that are dissected by pre-medical students are injected by the method that the Scotsman developed. Finally. after Dr. Burt had fin- ished with his \boasting we left. As the door closed behind us we couldn't help thinking how much :Or. Pavid Robertson Raitt Bu.rt personifies. in twentieth-century form, the loveable teacher in the story of Ann.a. and the King ~f Siam. EDDJE•s BARBER SHOP 220 Nott Terrace (Next to Ball's Cleaners) $1 'for any type of Haircut RECORDS POPS JAZZ CLASSICS at Van Curler Music Co. E:xactly, why Union has never seen fit to institute Honors is an interesting question. We might repeat our view that a llnion College with Honors might become a better school in fact as well as name. What more need be saW? JES Oedipus: History By Bruce Hauptman Tbe ~!story of Sophocles' Oedi-and Dryden in England produced PUS. &ex Is a long and colorful one, tragedies with Oedipus as the datmg back to the Golden Age. of hero. In recent years. modern Athens. almost two thousand, five translations by such men as hundred years ago. The Greek Georges Enesco and W. B. Yeats, theatre of S.o~h?cles tim~ stood on have given us a play of tremend- a hig-hly l\ehgwus basis. Pl~Y:s out impact-a play as vital today were perrormed at annual rel.tgi- as it was when seen by the Athen- ous festivals. where dramatists ien audiences of Sophocles' time. competed agamst one another for honot-s f<Jr the best tragedy and comedy. Dne such celebration held each Apr:!! was dedicated to the God Dionysis. Classical themes were revived by dramatists in the 17th and 18th <:en turles. The theme of Oed'ipus was utilized by the great literar-y figures o:f the time. Thus Conel!.1e and Racine in France, In 1956, Oedipus Rex was pre- sented by the Stratford Ontaiio Festival Company. with Tyrone Guthrie directing and James Ma- son playing Oedipus. Guthrie clothed his actors in conventional dress, using extremely large masks. The effect of this was to dwarf the character in respect to his envil\onment. Physically. Ceylon left one pre- 501 STATE ST. Air Society Cinema ' ~----~-------------~-------~ I By Edward Schwan I The Robert P. Patterson squad- ron of the Arnold Air Society will present the first in a series of movies tonight in E~22 at 7:30 P.M. Described as an \ecological. po- litical,. and pow.er evaluation\ of foreign countries, the movies are use>d by the Air Force 'in an at- tempt to educate Air Force per- sonnel in the customs, govern- ment, and life of the country in w:bich they are stationed. To- night's features are The Soviet Union and Its People, Turkey- The ~nd of \In-Between and Strategic Iran. The exhibition of Air Force mov:ies is one of the numerous activities carri'ed on by fhe Arn- old .A:ir Society. The AAS, named after air ace H. H. \Hap\ Arnold. was formed at Union in the spring of 1956 by four senior AFROTC cadets. It is designed \to pro- mote American citizenship in the air age; to advance the ·support of airpower; to further the pur- pose, mission, tradition, and con- cept of the United States Air F.orce for national security; and to create a closer and more ef. I ficirnt relationship within the I .AFROTC.'' I The Union chapter-. one of 188 squadrons in colleges throughout the United States, took as its name -the Robert P. Paterso.n Squadron, in honor of the former statesman. Patterson, a Unio-n graduate of the class of '12, was Secretary of War under Presi- dent Truman from 1945 to 1947. Be met an untimely death in 1952 in :an airplane crash. The squadron has grown in two years in the size of twenty-seven memoers of the advanced corps, It is currently commanded. by Cadet Major Heiki Ellermets and advised by Major Richard Per- kins, Members can be recognized by a gold and blue fourragere worn over the left shoulder. TROUBLED ABOUT .... A PLA'C:E TO EAT ON SUNDAY? Eat Your Sunday Meals at ANGELO'S The house of good food I I I I I I I I I I I I I I ( 35 Barrett St. • 016-9261 I The }argest .single enterprise by the society 'is the annual Military Ball held ih the fall. The c·adets manage this undertaking in its entirety, It is hoped that this venture Will lead to increased en- thu.siasm for the fall weekend. I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I . . • A•••••••••-•••••••-•••••••~u Free Parking Friday, R l3 On las lege helc Union m ding hop the wint time all letters,, • addition trOPhY· Not to we ·shou tunity b ef the \C ing our THE MORE :POINTS IN UNI• 58 •Garn• THE. MOST WEIGH body on THE: MOS'l' Hoffer, pQJlnds THE HAD- MADE\ Dan Be: Bauin,. THE OFTH chot Ji:u the :1\iiJ against the coa THE CO ACE Mullap.E THE CO ACE Anbre:r ~lOS~ TilE 1 Mfmorj s'Vimm ex-coac ]1[08~ .)\F TE of the Bill Ke MOS' LETE Hoffer o;:d,; dl MOS TJH~ del'yinl the la.: TH'E AVI'Ak! let•'s f• cc.:1ege Du1 Ind Satu lege v annu;a in th Repre Alfred Niaga: Venn< Buffa] Alfr pla<Je year , by a for to year i perha then: The find dash, in 60( and ( hurdl· will b ahd • and '1 1,0{]0 the t· Hoffr and Coco~ cobs -but n tions In track fresh tic lip.:; the!< in th M-eL: iKe the 1 bein~ m·ay in f1 L. \ S'l

Friday. March 7. 1958 Jri Retrospect L. G. BALFOUR CO. ' Fraternity Jewelers . BADGES • RINGS~ FAVORS . iJEWELRY LEATHER GII!TS STA.'l'I~NERY • PROGRAMS CLlJB. PINS - KEYS . MEDALS • TBoPHIII8 Write or Call CARL S9RENSEN 1'71 Ma.Dball St.,S)'racuse,N. y, l'llon.e Granite ll-7887 It Will Fun When You MARRY ME Garnet Matmen Post Two Wins; Finish With 3-7 Ceach Bruce Allison's wrestling squad ended its first season as a varsity sport on the Union College campus with strong victories against Albany State and Hamil- ton. The team's record for the· season was 3-7. The vLctory posted against Al- bany State last Saturday at the· Alumni Gymnasium was a 2'1-13 upset. The Garnet matmen swept five of the eight events. Ned Hat- field and Walt Bray looked par- ticularly good in scoring their victories. Albany State finished its season with a 7-3 record. Mermen Outdistance RPI; Travel to Champio,nships Tomorrow the Union mermen travel tQ Syracuse for the New York State Swimming Championships. They come fresh from a smashing victory against RPI which ended the regulation season.~ The medley relay team won handily as the Engineers were forced to concede and save their power for other events. In the distance events Ed Ruth, the team's highest scorer, took firsts in the 220 and 4,40 yard freestyle. Pete and Frank Giustra took im- portant thirds in each of these events. With two powerful relay teams, strong butterfly, breaststroke, and distance men the mermen have a good chance to cop individual honors. :An inspired Dutchman swim- ming team proved its greatness la..st Saturday by defeating a pow- erful and previously unbeaten R.PI squad by a solid 49-37 mar- gin. With but three events to go the mermen overcame a .five point deficit to outscore the Engineers 21-4, and wind up the season \vith an 8-2 record. The meet was .not decided until the last relay team set a new record in a thrill\ ing finish. RPI Follows Pattern In the freest:yle sprints, RPI had counted on clean sweeps and although La.Gase was unbeatable, Jim MacDonald, Trader and John . Lubetkin were able te take two seconds and a third. In the breast- stroke Olaf Meinander and Pete Herman finished a solid one-two. Herman and Buddy Hoffer took second and third behind Hoffman in the butterfly and Dormer de- feated Kirke Bent in the back~ stroke. Going into the final relay the Garnet had a slight, 42-37 lead and the outcome of the meet rested on the winner of this event. Lu- betkin led off for Union and fin- ished a yard or so ahead of his man, Trader gained slightly over Hoffman, Macl>onald opened up a two length lead against a tiring Yahn, and Ruth anchored, mak- ing careful open turns to crush LaGase and end :RPI's bid for an undefeated season. The time was a record breaking 3:43.0. ~· the rl_ . .-.:o;....-o;>\r::~~~::;: .~· ... ::-:.:l~: Jenny's got it .•. the bright taSte in beer! Sue. • • • and I'll buy the Wedding Begin this evening with Genesee. Pour it,. fresh and cold ... brilliantly clear and full of life. Taste its light, lively flavor. That's the bright taste in beer-and it stays bright, glass after glass! Relax: at home or at your friendly tavern., have a Jenny- the bright taste in beer I Ring at Maurice B. Graubart & Sons, Jewelers, 166 Jay St. Wo can rely on their 3 generation reputation. William THE QINUIEI BREWING CO., Rooheeter, N. Y. ·~~------~------•a•••M•~-~-••••••----------- . . ~----------------------------------------~ ~ 1 :. JAY JEWELRY CO. 1 • 1 Sood Food Wlfhout Frills NICIIOLAUS RESTAURANT THE OLD RELIABLE FOR OVER 60 YEARS I 315 STATE STREET I 1 Diamond Importers I I I Diamond Bureau 1 : Memb~ : Antwerp, Belgium CHENECT.AD\', N.Y. REST. • FR 4-8917!1 I tl ARNOLD FISHER '50 I ............. _ ................. - .. --····-.-~....,.._. .................. ~--. -·~ ~··---- ··---- •.•.• , ....... - -·---- ------------ .. ----- .. - ..J

4 Friday. March 7. 1958 Student Council Ch . ara·c·ter R: ese.ar· .ch .. ·p· ro)·.ect New Vision?. · Matmen ..• ('Continued from IJ?a;ge 8) (Continued fr(}~ Page 1) (Continued from Page 1) ® New· VaJu. ·e· . s?' gun a_ series of twelve h?urs ?f ported Fincke's position; Profes- t d f h d d · · . • wrestl 1 ng lessons to be O'lven m sor .Joseph Fin~elstein, Coordina- ween one an our · un re m- h k d t th h Is ·problems had to a· o with -the an- 1 \- This tor o• Student Actt'Vl'ti'es indicat.ed d ·lviduals were g1'ven ex:te. nsive ' ours a wee ' an ° e sc 00 - th regular g·y·m .c asses • where learning i·n the •primary alysis .of open-end da:ta, that is Sarah Lawrence •College will. e, . . . ·. 'that ·his \recommendation to the tests each year for purposes of function. From the work done projective type data, or data in sponsor a conference on Ccmtem-i .should. stimulate mteres~ m the President and the :t>·ean will be vocational and educational guid- by the Indivldua;J Differences forms other than numerical pory American Lite:rature: JS'ew: spo'-:t and at the same .ttme· help not to allow drinking at future ance. This service is now dis- t · th · ti scores. Statis·tical methods oan Vision? New Values? OIJ.. April 26 :. ·to fmd some new .material for the concerts und·er cond·I··tt' ons: which continued, but it is .still necessary earn, m etr tes ng program, a squad problem emerged, that of teach- be empl 0 yed only when .the· score and 27. Students from sixty east-: · ' . . .prevailed on Winter Wee~end;'' for leaders of youth groups to ing high school students good type data is forthcoming, but ern colleges, in·cluding three from, The: year of,exper~enoe for Alh- It was understood that since know enough about their charges, study habits. The solution of ·this when subaective ·opinions. are col- Union, will hear outstanding crit-· son, who had prevtously taugl:).t the d·isturbance was · so wide- to be able to offer them vocational problem was pl'imarily the work· lected, and each one is ·different ics writers and authorities in the the sport only on .an intramural spread, no disciplinary action on guidance, and to be able to use· f tb. t t d · Learnino- from the next, new methods must lit~rar.y field preside over p· anel' ·level, plus· the fact t):lat, with the· 1 ·ndt'vt'duals· Wl',ll b. e taken. individual approaches in the· 0 e earn s u ymg .,. . One of the .Jargest areas of re- · be developed which will allow ac- and discussion groups: . • exception of Bray, everyone on In other .action, the Student teaching of character dimensions. search and appl-ication in the curate interpretation. Because St'!ldents interested in partie!-. this ·year's ·squad. wilJ. be back Council moved to ,eliminate the Character Research is wot;king Characte!' Research Project is small samples were usually used pating in the conference should.;ne;x;t year, makes the ~future look Garnet Eiey ·organization, and on new met-hods of determining that entitled Youth. Mrs. Mary careful statistical work had t~ contact Professor Niemeyer im- · ·bnght. The frosh squa~ also pro- turn its treasury of one hundred individUal differences, under the O'Brt'en leads t·hi's team 1'n the be done ·l·n order to determ·1·n·e J'ust t duced' three outsta'hdmg- men· · A mediately since applications mus ·. · · and seventy-one dollars over to able leadership of Dl'. William · t d f th d f l'g'ous and how m· eant'ngf·ul or un1'versal· cer- d t d t .. Clem Crow Pete Adasek and d ..-. 'tt 'th Eioppe. a skiHed psychologist. 8 u · Y 0 me 0 s 0 re 1 1 ·be filled out an re urne o., .. ·' · • the Stu ·ent T'ax: vomm1 · ee, W1 character education in high tain observations could be. con- :sat'ah Lawrence by March 14.'. Paul Whtte, all, of w'hom . sh,ould the recommendation that it be With these methods. the lay leadc schools, and vocational guidance. sidered. This team also helps in Registration fee .of $1.50 covers,·help out the G~rn.et .grapplers. contributed: to the Campus Chest. ers who see certain young people:. It was found that people of about the setting up ·of experiments, and the various activities while sleep-:. next yel);r. Cvow, mcidenta;l~y was . . · . once a week for a couple of hours ·the junior high ages began losing the collecting of data:. and· the ing and dining accommodations'· t~e ·state Y.~.C.A .. champlOn in r------------~-~--:-----·1· can learn enough about those .peo-: interest in religion and other choice of samples. win be provided at nominal cost. ;hts class. .Allison f~lt that the I L U: I·G·I 1 S· pie to be able to appeal to their •t h t tch th ar w 1 individual perceptions as deter-' group activities. The scouting S : oug es ma · es IS ye ere . . 1 movement made some changes in ummation .against .Colgate and' Oswego I ·R'ESTA' U'R·ANT I mined •by thei.r background, soc- . . d t State, but aJ. so .a. ss. er.ted t. hat the· . ·. · · · · : · 1 1 iaJ position, and setting age reqmretnents tn or er to mee Thus the Chat•acter Research B •tt A Pl ·cat:ons this tprob!em, .and tto atdhct .mtore. :Project is made up of five re~ . } ... er • • • • ~:~~ayu~:r Will remam the s.ame Specializing in p l ., scou mg exper1ence o · e m er- search teams: investigating !ndi- ! • ltaliaii·American Food I Dr. Ligon defines character as ested ages of youth. The youth vidual differences, the home, <Continued from Pa,ge 1J . When Alliso.n w.~s .asked 'If he ·l \The strength with which you team at CRP investigates new ap- learning. youth, and experimental . ·· . ;felt the team would benefit from 1125 BARRETT ST . throw all of your potential into· proache~ to youth which facilitate design. As has been pointed out. and 'Manufacturmg Company and 'his year of .e:x,petience, he signi- • I what seems to you to be the ma-. and prolong interest. For exam- the teams are dosely 1 ,elated, and was named to the M..J.T. faculty 'fled agreement, but in the same ., Schenectady OJ 6-9744 jor purpose for which you are pie, plA.cing more emphasis on one relies upon the knowledge of ·in 1934, ~ecoming a prof~ssor In :·breath muttered that \ten years' • alive.\ If phychological tests can yout,h learning, themsPlws, rather the other in any final analysis. the. Phys1c.s Departn;tent m 19? .. 1. :experience wouldn't make moe a 1 EnJOY Our i in any way indicate an individ- than having someone tPach them. All the information found in :re- H .. e.· was a Gugge~he1I? Memorial •good wrestling coach. \Ho.wever !'Sizzling Steaks and Chops ual's potential, and if, one's po- Group !Ntdf'rs had to h<.> tt·ained search areas is used Immediately Fellow of the UniVersity of Cam- we are looking forward. to at tential is recognized, steps can be. to he moderators rather than lee- in curriculum published by CRP. 'bridge and served in the Navy least a .500 record next season:\ y· 't O N C kt • 1 B ~ t A th · · .from 1940 to 1946. lSI ur ew ' oc aJ ar taken to develop avenues of ex- Ul·ers. you congress was The curriculum presents.·the new- . . ---------------------- pression of this potential within held on the ·L'nion College campus est, most proved approaches to He wiU v·isit under the .auspices certain broad dimensions, this !'e· in June of 1956' for research pur- religious and character teaching of the American Institute of search in individual differences poses. Voluminous data was ac- that have been found by the re- Physics and the American. Asso- is of the utmost importance In cumulated. and it tooll almost two search teams: Because there is elation of Physics Teachers as · cha1·acter. Herein we see a strong years to analyze it. Another Con- a constant inflow of Information .part of .a broad; nationwide pro- connective Iinll between the re- gress is planned for this coming to Character Research from the gram to stimulate interest in search field in this project, and June. various studies being carried on, physics. 'Union's Leader in Cleaning & Shirt Laundering the practical application of the Youth Team there is constant revision of the, The American Institute of Phys- findings. The Youth tt>am collects data curriculum. This precipitates ics is a federation of the five BALL'S INCo 224 Nott Terrace DI 6-3~56 Five research teams, with over- not only from parents and teach- 'g-reater inflow of c!'iticism, and pl'incipa! societies in the field of lapping fields of investigation. ers, but from the vouths t-hem- &valuations on the pa·rts of teach- physics research and· teaching, in- provide the basis for the practical selves. Vocational guidance pro- ers, parents, and students. eluding the Amel'ican Pnysi.cal applications of Character Re- grams are set up in the club and The article will b(' continued Soci'ety, Qpticai Society of Amer- search. The research areas, in other groups that meet each week. next weelt with a discussion of the ica, Acoustical Society of Amer- the order in which they will be: Tests and other methods of in- Field Service Program, and a de- ioea, Society of Rheology, and the 6· · . SpeclaJ 1 Hr. Cleaning Service 7 Hr. Service on Shirts treated are: the home. lea'rning, vestigation a;re developed that scription -of C.R.P.'s founder, Dr. American Association of Physics individual diffel'ences, youth, and can be evaluated by the lay lead- Erijfr·~n~e~st~Li~-~g~o~n~. ~~~~~~~~~~T~e~a~c~h~e~rs~.~~~~§~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ experimental design. ers. who are trained to recognize It is certainly a p<Jpular con- the emergence of problems which ception, if not an obvious fact. demand special professional con- that the home has a great deal sultation. :Dr. Ligon and Mr. •Sib- to do with the development of ley are presently working on a character. Mrs. Sally Smith is ·book called T:he Personal Equa- the woman in charge of the t•e- ti()n, which is a vocational aid to search field dealing witb the high school :;;tudents. It will help home. All studies so far have in- them choose vocations in which dicated that significant character they can, as individuals. make a development does hot take .place contribution to society. The the- unless the home participates ac- cry is that feelings of impol'tance tively. This area of research and social contributions are as- studies the specific things that sential in satisfactory vocational a home can do, and how the in- adjustment. dividual home setting can be used Dr. Eileen Kuhns heads the most effectively. Factor analysis research team studying experi- studies are made which point out mental design. T·his area of re- the factors going together to pro- search is perhaps one of the most duce attitudes in the mother and important single areas in the en- father that make the home cllm- tire project, fa1• its success de- ate one in which a ch·ild ca:n de- tennines the factual basis for the velop successfully. work done by other teams. In Examine Parents• Role character. research big problems This field of research also en- arose that had not ·been solved deavors to differentiate between in psychology before. These the role the father should play and the role the mother should play rather than simply saying that certain home clim-ate factors rest tlJP{}n the behavior and atti- tude of \parents.'• Quite obvi- ously the study and teaching of character reaches not only into, the church, school, and .play group, but into the home; in fact it may be said that it is within the home that character first be- gins to develop. There is a great deal of litera- ture in the field of psychology having to do with learning. Since the Character Research Project Is interested in the inculcation of outlooks, as wen as the study of them, it is imperative that they apply the theories of learning to their work. Jane Blbber is in charge of the research team oper- · atlng in this field. Its job is to apply the knowledge of the learn- ing processes to situations in which groups meet only a few JAMES Restaurant • 6000 FOOD •t prices you c,n afford Booth and Fountain Service 426 State St. ... ..,.. .. HANK'S TYDOL SERVICE STATION GENERAL AUTO REPAIRING PHONE FR 2-9788 135 NOTT TERRACE Schenectady, N. Y. RELIABLE RADIO SERVICE 736 State St. EX 3·8668 • Sales lit Service On All Makes of RADIOS • Cloolts - Portable - Car Hi-Fi Sets q'ape Recorders (Next to Mohawlt Cl1evrolet) Now's The Time To MARRY ME Linda • . . and I'll buy the Wed· ding Ring at Maurice B. Graubarl & Sons, Jewelers, 166 Jay St. We can . rely on their 3 generation roputatlon. Jimmy r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------1 I f I ' I f I CLARK BROS. co. I 1 OLEAN. NEW YORK ! f f f I 1 : lA Division of Dresser lndusfriesl Representatives will be at Union College March 14, 1958 to interview candidates for positions in Sales Application - Field Service -Project- Design and Development - Test MECHANICAL, CHEMICAL, AND PETROLEUM ENGINEERS (One Year. Training and Development Pro9ram) ! Manufacturer of engines, engine driven compressors, I, • Industrial gas turbines and centrifug. al compressors I ' . J i. l PLEASE SEE YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE FOR t ! ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND TO APPLY FOR AN INTERVIEW I ! I : . ' . r &.--·-·-------~-- .. - ..... ·--------------------•-.....-----~---·-- . - ... 0---·-----~-------....1 FERRO'S REST AU RANT Specializing in Italian-American Food Discount for Union Students 2()c on the dollar Free Parking PIZZA 016-9554 1115 Barreit St. Gazette Press • 332 State St. DAMBROS.E Cleaners Discounts to all UNION Students COr. Van Vra.nkeJ1 Ave. & Nott St. FR 4-5193 ;~ VQL. B1 ] ,, bury, ment of N1 Chap ed 1a1 The ern Hf. which u.s. c cqrdin \a rev~ criticil \ ... pr !lOU the Bra< career men- 1 Ran so Clea;nt aid n. Andre TO< The from tablisl sity a of th1 'book, tion u social of thE Pro: rently his t throu. Louis with sity: • from and E versit lni ThE nOUUI sec on State Asset .A,pril host whicl Cap it T.en: Sp< State the I lege in tl body disct to tb ics ~ tire : mitte seml: to! c Me StatE expe year' s\ ( Dr ciatE la:bo: cha~ Scin in a clew cat!< w the Owe sity. ited Unh J. I Nati P1 witl troh emi1 cha1 the~ in phy on of 1 froo: p Uni and kin: fesE joir pre· sea· Unl soc of'

e e e e e e On Trophys ~ Pagel Between Seasons Page 3 Founded at Union College in 1877 VQL. 87'. No. 17 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., MARCH 14, 1'958 PRICE TEN CENTS Bradbury Writes New HPCTo Vote Union Mountebanks To Present Boo~ On \Fugitives\ OnNewRnsh 'Oedipus Rex,' Opening Thursday \The Fugitrves,' 1 a new book by Dr. John M. Brad- Procedures . .. ~ . By Bruce HaUIPtman bury, Profe)ssor of English and Chairman of the Depa.rt- By Rfrbert Galvin ment of Art has recently been published by the University Presentation of the pro- of North Carolina Press in~----~----~- I posed rushing rules for 1958 Chapel Hill, it was announc- tituted the nudn order ed late last week. The book deals with the south- of business at the Tuesday, ern \fugitive\ Uterary movement March 11, meeting of the which sprang up in the southern :House Presidents' <Council. U.S. during the 1920's and, ac~ The propos·als, which include cqrding to Dr. Bl.'aclbury, ~used 'the only substantial change in \a revolution ln ~mel.'i'can litera:~y rules. at Union for sev- criticism,\ and simultaneously eral years, follow pressure by var- \ ... provided impetus to. the : ioUB student groups. principally. !)OUthern literary renaissance.\ : :the Ooneordiensis. The HPC wiH Bl.'adbury's book deals with the on the proposals at its Tues- careers of sqch great ·southern day, March 25 meeting; but sentic men of letters as John Crowe :ment at last. Tuesday's meeting Ransom, Robert Penn Warren, 'indicated that there is no major Ciea;nth Brooks, Allen Tate, Don- · :oppositiqn to the new pr-ogram. aid Davidson, Merrill Moore and Major changes would include Andrew :Little. , a three week rushing period, dur- . the fraternities would be divided into two groups, serving meals to freshmen and rushing in the dormitories alternate days. ·Rushing in the dormitories would be between 7 and 8:30 P:M.. on weekdays and from 2 to 8 P.M. on Sundays. Since no· rushing in the dormic tories would be allowed before· 7 P.M., freshmen would be able to leave their rooms in the after- noon to participate in activities , without fear .of missing, the rush· Took Name From Magazine The group took, .their nrume from a magazine which they es- tablished at 'Van<lerbilt Uriiver-: sity and whi-ch contained. much of their early writings. In his 'book, Dr. Bradbucy focuses atten- tion upon the literary rather than social and economic implications of the movement. · Professor Bra.dbury,. who is CUI.'- rently on sabbatical leave fro·m Registration for m·ake,up tests his teaching duties for a to be given on Tuesday-Wecl,nes- through the Sout~. is a native of March 25-26, must be com- Louisville, Ky., and a graduate at the office of the Regis- with honors uf Princeton Univer- : before 3 P.M. Thursday, sity: , He holds _a master's degree ·March 20. Students are requil.'ed from · Northwestern University tfr pay !!. registration fee of one and earned his Ph.D, at the Uni- :aonar unless they .pres1;1.nt an ex- versity of Iowa. cuse for illness from Dr. Weaver or were -absent clue to an author- ized activity. ing committees. No freshmen W(}Uid be permit- ted in the houses after 7 P.M. on weekdays, and bids for Saturday night dates would be accepted in w;riting, to enable the freshmen to rush the hoUBes mol.'e. Time limits on rushing in the (Continued on Page 4) Intercollegiate- • Assembly Set Braunste}n C_hose!l As ~ew The Philomathean soCiety ConcordienSIS Chief Ed1tor nouncecl plans for the twenty, · · second annual New Yol'k State Intercollegiate Legislativei Assembly, to be held in Albany: A,pr!l 24-26. Union will play the • host role for the 1958 session, which wm be st!llged in the State Capitol arid at the Hotel Sheraton• TenEyck. Sp(}nsored hy the New State Debate Coruches As:so•cJa:tiO>n,, the annual assemblies lege students practical ex:peJ~ieltiCtel in the operation of a IeJSislative body and also an opportunity to discuss topics of ~;urrent interest to the State. Three selected .top- ics are carried t!J.rough the en- tire legisiative process fr<>m com- mittee stage to a full General As- sembly sessicn In the State Capi- tol chambers. ~ Most of the leading N'ew York State colleges· and universities are expected to participate in this year's Assembly, ~--0>-'--- -VisAid Photo by Mark Krugman Davia Ra.cl~bart;b, F'Federick Hall. Merle Galusha and Al- bert Katz (left to right-) are shown rehearsing. for the Mounte- banks' .production of Sophocles' \OedipUs Rex;\ The play will run fr01m Mil!.rch 20 to 25. The Mountebanks production of <Jed1pus Rex by Sophocles will open on Thursday, March 30. and will continue to March 25. The .play Will ·be held in Hanna Hall. Curtain time is 8 :30 P.M. :During the golden age of Ath- ens, in .the fifth century B.C., re- ligious festivals ·at which dt'am- atic presentations were offered w(lre held twice a year. Here So- phocles often presented his work. He was a prolific writer, but of the great number of plays that he 'wrote, only a few remain. One of the more prominent of these Is Oedipus Rex. Events Be Love Play The events leading up to the play are as follows: Laius and J ocasta are King and Queen of Thebes. They are warned that they will have a son who will kill his father and marry :his mother. When the child Oedipus .is born, 'it is given to a shepherd to be ckilled. The shepherd, not having the heart to kill the child, givas it to another shepherd. Oepidus •eventually is adopted by the King and Queen of Corinth. When he grows up, he is warned by an ·oracle that he will kill his father ,and marry his mother. Not want- 'ing s-qch a thing to happen, Dedi- pus leaves Corinth, determined :never to L'eturn. On his travels S k 0 l k ',he me.ets a, man on tbe road, gets Hutton Pea ·_ s on ut 00 Into a heated dispute with him. _ . ' 1·11 . · and kills him. Oedipus then goes 0 f h , s • · to Thebes whereby soh,ing the t , e Present D- ay~· ov .. ets . r~ddle of the sphinx •. he_ rids ~he If .City of a plague. He IS made kmg By William Wheeler and marries . the reigning queen . . . . , • whose husband has recently been \The Soviet Umon Is entn;ely different m looks, cul- killed. ture, and determination of business, from what is ordi-, The play opens: Oedipus has narily believed in the United States.\ This was the opin- ruled wisely for years. He and ion expressed by Dr. John G.·· Jocasta have several childr.en. A plague comes to Thebes. The ora- HU.tton, manager of the· The emphasis placed on higher, cle tells Oedipus that the plagUe Electrical Engineering Lab- education in Russia was evident: (Continued on Page 4) in the extensive and modern uni-;. oratory of the General Elec- versities controlled by the gov- ' tric·Co., at the International ernment. The need for scientists Relations ·Club lecture Tues- and engineers is in no way hin-; day, night, March 11 at 8 :30 dered by the poverty of the: M masses. All eligible students are' P. • given an opportunity to attend, The Soviet people, as they (Continued on Page 4) plainly exhibited, are not gener- . ally envious of the American way . of life, basically because knowl• edge of the outside world is kept at a minimum by the higher offi- oeials of state. ''The Soviet Union Jazz Conc·ert Tickets. On Sale Rev. Kennedy To Speak Sunday The Reverend Dr. Edwin Oliver Kennedy, Secretary of the Union Theological Seminary of New York ·City will address this Sun- day's vesper service worshippers. His topic 'will be, Oa.n We Know God. is a vast and enigmatic countcy, Ticket sales for the third an- , and it's people,. though politically nual Union College Jazz Concert Reverend Kennedy graduated · and socially subdued, are appar- on Mar{)h 22 have broken all previ- from Union College in 1921. He ently satisfied to each make his d La Kah G 1 was a me:q1ber of Delta Upsilon Own Small Contrl .butr'on ·to· a com• ous recor s, rry n, enera d Phi B t K '- Chairman of the affair bas an~ an · e a appa uonorary m<on, but seemingly unknown nounced. fraternity. Upon graduation from goal.\ The concert, which ·features Er- Union, Dr. Kennedy attended' the Religion Not Wiped• out roll Garner, outstanding contem• Union Theological Seminary. In Dr. Hutton said the greatest porary jazz pianist, is being held · 1 9 24 , he was ordained to the misconception of the Soviet Union in Memorial Chapel on the Col• Christian Ministry of the Presby- s tz Wo . rkm•. g· 1 c terian <Church in the U.S:A. He war . . . . ·. . . held by t~e American, people is ege I ampus, The Chapel has a -Vi sAid Photo by 'that in order to practice religion seating capacity of 1,250. What became Secretacy of the Theo- 0 -· n Dhysl·c· s 'B·o, ok Inooming Editol.' Mordecai Braunstein (seated) a,nd Ou.tgcing in that land, (}De must overstep few tiCkets have not yet been sold logical Seminary in 1952, after 28 .£ · Editor Daniel Papernik (left) peruse the last issue of OON- legal boundaries. \Tbis is not are available at the Van Curler years as a Presbyterian minister. ·Dr. Charles D. Swartz, Asso- CORDffiNSIS. Associate Editor, Sfufan Stein; Business Man- true,\ ciairned Dr. Hutton. \The Music Stores in Schenectady and Professor Cambell, Director of ciate Professor of Physics, is col- ager, Michael Enzer; nlanaging Editor, ~bert Kent and Copy right to -w:orship was granted by Albany, at the various College the Union College Glee Club will Ia:borating in the preparation of a Editor, Kenneflh Hasson (left to right) look on. the C(}nstitution of 1917; religion fraternity houses, until Monday be the organist for this Sunday's chapter on ''Recoil Detection in . is discouraged, out there is · no noon, and at the Student Activ· vesper service. Scintillators,\ whic.ll will appear M<>rdecai B. Braunstein ''59 was selected by the Pub-· effort on the ·part .of the Soviet -ities Office at Washburn Hall ;--------------. in a new research volume on nu- lications Board this week to succeed Daniel S. Papernik government to wipe it out en· (EX 3-7718). clear physics scheduled :t:or '58 as Editor-in-'Oh.ief of the Coilcordiensis. :Meeting Wed- tirely.\ Proceeds to Junior Prom· The~·e are positlons open on the circulation and busi:ness sta:ffs of the CONOORDIEN- SIS. Interested students shonld contact Michael Enzer at the Coneor~ Office or at DI 6-9959. cation some· time next year. \Th 1 1 d \ · 'nesday, March 1. 2, th. e Board·.· e roe ·p aye '-'Y women m Proceeds from the concert are Working with Dr. Swartz on the Soviet Union ~s one of the used. towards the Junior Class the chapter is Dr. George E. also reelected Michael J. ed their ability_to produce. a ~.ews- most unusual aspects of Russian Prom Fund. This year will mark Owen of Johns (Hopkins Univer- Enzer '59 B_ usiness Manager paretPI_rem~ ·gof ~~~~tohrlgahdedsetdq. uahty. the life,\ Dr. Hutton statecl. In that the thil:d successive year that ·the sity. The new J:>ook is being ed- \\\ co t th f \'' h b · of the newspaper. Accepting the responsibilities of ' un ry · e ema..~e sex as een Junior ClaSs has sponsored such ited by Dr. J. B, ':r,1arion of tlle t \emancipated to use a term ex- a popular artist. University of Maryland anci :Or. Braunstein, whose enure as editorship, Braunstein stated: \My pressed by a Soviet interpreter. ~~~:::__:~:::_ _______ _l..===============:! J. L. Fowler of the Oak Ridge E<litor-in-Chief wi:ll' commence prime objective is to uphold the· \emancipation in effect, is National Laborato~, with the present issue, has 'been high standards of the Concordien- the placing of the Russian woman Professor Swartz• _chapter d·eals associated with Concordiensis. sis. I feel very fortunate to in- on the same status as tha..t· of the with method& of .detecting neu- since his freshman yeal'. He 'has .herit a smooth PUnning organiza- male. Women ih the Soviet per- tro ·ns· 1 ·n organic crystals, vl.hicll. since ascend·ed through a series tion.\ f th 'bl orm e same duties as do men, emit flashes of light when of increasingly more responsl' e. Enzer, also a Soda!- Studies ma- in the political, professional, and cha!.'ged .particles go through posithms. , jor, has been associated with th.e unskiUeq. fiillds of endeavor, and them. Author of various papers :AiJ, a sophomore, he ser-Ved as' newspaper since his sophomore 1 th in . the field of fast neutron Assistant Sports and Sports Edh year. Serv:ing on the business. a so receive e .sa:q1e wages. \It · · tors. This year he ser¥ed _as Man-: staffs of vario·US campus publica- was not uncommon to see the' fair physics, he worked with !Dr. · sex working on the <Construction on this subject wbile a member aging and ·Issue Editors. tlons, he first became Business of roads and buildings, engaging of the faculty at Johns !Hopkins . . Has Been o:n Stage Manager of the (Joneordiensis in themselves in stl'enuous physical from 1948~. A Social Studies major; Braun- April, 1957. . . 1 b , D Professor Swartz, Who cam{j: to stein is a member of Kappa Nu In other Publications Board a; or,' · r. Hutton co111:mented. Union in 1956, earned both A.B. Fraternity. He also belongs to \·business Robert Schoenfein, Idol and Ph.D. degrees at J'ohns Hop- the recorder group, th~ executive Editor, outlined plans for the A Procurement Team from the kins and. was an Assistant Pro-, board of the concert ensemble, fourth issue of the m~g;;LZine. He U. S. Marine Corps will be on fessor at that institution before and the Hillel executive board. hopes to build the issue ?,round ... ,,\'r'\'\ next Tuesd~J,Y, March 18. joining the looal faculty. i'Ere held In suttende:dng the editorial· the theme, \Beat . Generation. They will be in the Student Ac- previous aJlpointments as a tRe- reins Papemik expressed corifi- Criticrul essays on art, poetry, mu- tivities Office from 9 ·A. M. until search Physicist at denc~ in Braunstein's \wdting sic. and literature are .expected 4 P. M. a)J.d will have information University, and as a As- and organizational ability. He as well' as stories written in the on the. various Marine Corps pro- sociate at :the Cornell Labbratocy. and the other members of the \beat\. vein. The third issue will grams available to co-llege l!liu- of Nuclear studies. Editorl·al Board have demonstrat- 1:ie published late thifl month, dents. ' Weaver Begins Lectures , pr. Myron M. Weaver, the Un•<e•f-' -------------- ion College Physician; held the menting his talks with colored first of five informal discussions . slides. on health, Wednesday, March 12. The discussion last week was These non-technical \chats\ ha-ve _entitled Sex Life and Health. It been scheduled .for the next fo11r covered reproduction in man, emo• Wednesdays. All meetings are tions in sex relationships. abnor- opened to the publi~ and are held mal sex gratification and vener~ ·in room 102 of the Physics Build- eal diseases. ing. beginning at 7 P.M. and end- Next Wednesday, Doctor weav- ing promptly at 8 P.M. . er will present Emoti(}lllll. Balance Dr. Weaver plans five lectures vs. Psychiatric Di!Wrders. This O!l different topics each year. The will include vegetative existence, purpose of these discussions'is ·~to stress in modern living, the re- make the students conscious of action of the psyche-soma to hygiene and to clarify the .con-. stress, \personality disorders,\ fiicting information they receive. mental diseases and the sources f!'om newspapers, radio and tele-· of early help hi emotional disor- vision.\ Dr. Weaver ·is sUJpple-· ders.

2 (11nur.ur Published Fridays during the school year by the SeUdent Body of Union College Schenectady, N.Y. Kationat Advertising Rilp- t·e:sentative: National Ad- vertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Repre- sentative, 420 Madison Ave., N. Y, C. Editorial Office. WashbUI'n Hall, Union College, !'ltlJ- licaUon Office, The Ua· zette Press, 334 State St. Entered in the Scheuel'- tady Post O.ffice as Sec· ond Class l\lail !.latter, subscripllon lOc a copY , $2 a year delivered any· where in the L:nited States. SENIOR BOARD 1\IOHDI·:\AI n, BilA Ul\:S1'J·:I:-<. '5~. Io'i:l 4-Q3g3 ........... Ellitor-in-~hiet . HflHEH'1' J KE!\:T '5~1 ............. Ill 6-68~9 .......... :\Iana!';l!lg hdtto~ ~l!CHAEI. J. E!\:ZEH ·;,u .......... Fit ;-Jol:J ........ Busmess :ll'u.m.gel , STEI•'A:\ 1'. STlcl:\ '5~ ............. EX 3-li~SJ .......... A~~u<'l.'lle ic~~tor 'JA:O.lt-:R !~. SWA!\ '59 ............... D! G-68Sll ....... Contrlln;tlllg ~ 1tor ·; J(!o;,l\;;>;I.;-I'H 0. HASSO:\' '59 ...... ,. Fit ·1-1855 .. , ........... L opy b:thtor A Modest Increase In the next week the Student Tax Committee will most likely be requested to look into a controversial sub- ject. Professor Edgar Curtis, Head ~f .t~e Music Dep~rt­ ment, is asking that the Student Actm hes Tax be raised one dollar, from ten to eleven dollars each semester, th.e increase to be used to augment the Lectures and Concert fund. At the present time the Lectures and Concerts Com- mittee has $600 with which to work. Compared with the amounts ranging up to ten times that figure which neigh- boring colleges have at their disposal, Union's sum seems paltry in-deed. We feel that the benefits from this modest increase are extremely worthwhile. As envisioned by Professor Curtis, the $1,000 which would be collected could easily mushroom into a figure at least three times as large. It is hoped that the College would increase its present allot- ment to a sum equal to that contributed by the students, and an additional $1,000 could probably be raised from the Schenectady Community if a more distinguished series of concert~ were brought to Union. An additional benefit would arise from the fact that with the increased money Union would be able to engage the services of artists of the same caliber as those perform- ing at Skidmore. A collaboration between the two schools would the1·efore enable an arrangement to be reached whereby artists could perform at Union and at Skidmore on consecutive dates, at substantial savings to both col- leges. A small obstacle exists in th~ way of Curtis' proposal, however. The Student Tax Committee cannot allocate money for purposes not connected with student activities. One way to bypass this would be to create a tax-supported organization, possibly along the lines of the Modern Jazz Society. The purpose of such organization would be to present concerts and lectures on campus. Another alternative, and perhaps a better one, would be to increase the General Fee instead of the Student Ac- tivities Tax. In this manner the same amount of money would be made available without impairing the Tax Com- mittee's constitution. That the quantity and quality of lectures and con- cers on campus could be improved cannot be denied. A small increase would certainly be a great help in this mat- ter, and few; if any, students would object very strenu- ously if their General Fee were raised by four percent. We applaud the proposal. Yet we feel that the in- crease rightfully belongs in the hands of the College, and not the Student Tax C<Jmmittee. No matter how the money is raised, the College community should not be denied the tremendotis benefits arising from such a modest increase. MBB \Well if you don't like that one, try this on!\ The Union Shop by J. D. Ticknor Thls year's intercollegiate debate topic is RESOLVED: That membership in a labor organization as a condition of employment sholild be illegal. Herein, two Philo members, Joel D. Ticknor and Simeo J. Gallo, will take sides on the issue. This week Mr. Ticknor argues for the Affirmative. Next week Mr. Gallo ,presents the Negative viewpoint. The question under considera- tion is the timely one of compul- sory-unionism or the union-shop. At present. if a w·orker enters a plant having a union-shop con- tract iil force, he must join the union after a period of from us- ually 30 to 60 days in order to continue his employment ak the plant. It must be noted that this is one of the sole conditions plac- ed upon the worker if he wishes to continue on the job. The skill, efficiency and merits of the work- er plays only a subordinate role under compulsor-y-unionism. Even if the employer likes the worker, and even if the man is satisfied with his working conditions, the employer has no other choice but to fire the man if he does not join t'he union. Compulsory-union- ism, therefore, both limits the freedom of choice of the wo!'kel' and, at the same time, binds .the hands of the employer. Detrimental Viewpoint Let us see what some of the reasons are for a man not want- ing to join a union. He may be basically opposed. to the philoso- phy of unionism. He may not be in sympathy with union policies or union objectives. Moreover, unions conduct active political and .propaganda campaigns. It is hypocritical and mor-ally wrong to force a man, through a por- tion of ·his dues, to contribute· to the political campaigns of a party or candidate with whom he is not in sympathy. Under the present situation. a man who is not in sympathy with unioni.sm or with union policies m11st, if he wishes to keep his job, sacr-ifiee his honor and dignity by having his name placed on the union roles. This is an abridgement of the moral freedom of contract and property of the individual. and employment conditions. What we propose, therefore, is the elim- ination of the union-shop. However, since unions are es- tablished institutions .and do, .in part, contribute to industrial peace there can be no radical de- parture from the present system. Any new plan must contain the following elements: (1) security of the individuafs freedqm of contraet and .prDperly; (2) no ap- preciable damage to union secur- ity; (3) representation of the pub- lic interest via the government. The Affirmative Prop,osal What the Affirmative proposes is basically the plan now in opera- tion in Canada, between the Ford Motor Co., Ltd., and the U.A.W., since 1946. Their contract pro· vides for the elimination {)f the union-shop and, at the same time, recognizes the financial obliga- tion a worker incurs when he re- ceives the benefits of collective bargaining. Under the Canadian program the basic costs of main· taining the union as a collective bargaining agent are prorated among the employees-all men paying the same basic assessment. The union member pays those ad. ditional costs that full union membership entails. With cer- tain modifications this plan can be adopted to American society. Thus. we see that a worker is not forced to join a union as a condition of his employm~nt. He is not relieved of his financial obligation to pay what he re- ceives, thereby not seriously im- pairing union security. This is analagous to what happens if a Union student buys a box of Girl Scout cookies. He must pay for the box of cookies he receives, but he is not forced to join the Gir-l Scouts. Conclusion Compulsory - unionism, .besides The Affirmative concludes with ihe well chosen words of Prof. Sylvester Petro, professor of iaw at N.Y.U. Law School- Summl . ng Up abridging the rights of the indi- vidual. also gives the unions de j,ure power to control employment Tradition seemingly dictates that the outgoing editor -'--------------------._---- \When men are forced in the use this space to note the accomplishments during his tenure and more important, to describe the great amount which still has to be done. Cuts The greatest single achievement is the initiation of a program permitting unlimited cuts for Juniors and Seniors in good academic standin·g. Such a program assumes greater student maturity and allows an individual to take responsibility for his grades and the means by which he attains the grades, including class attendance. It is un- fortunate that so many departments will not give the plan a fair test because they link a student's grade to his at- tendance. The majority, however, have placed their trust in the student's ability to choose whether or not to attend a class. We feel that the trust will be well-rewarded when the plan is analyzed next year, and if it is successful there seems to be no reason why the program should not be con- tinued - and extended to sophomores as well. Honors and the Library The extension of cutting permission to all students highlighted the problem of \what to do for the bright student.\ Unlimited cutting had previously been permit- ted only for the Dean's List student. The Eliphalet Nott award has been created, but we feel more can be done. Specifically we have suggested the creation of an Honors Progl'am built on the foundation of the present \56\ courses. Such a program would not cost a great deal and would go a long way towards providing stimulation for the brighter individuals. The Honors course taken in the senior year, we suggest, should be equal in credit to two three-hour courses and be taken in addition to three other subjects. A problem of concern to all students is the woeful condition of the present library. The building, originally constructed as a museum, is small and overcrowded. Con- struction on a new libra:ry has been promised since Feb- ruary, 1955. Fraternities and Independents The question of rushing and rushing rules has been brought up repeatedly in the pages of Concordiensis. Not- withstanding the House Presidents' - Student Council Committee on Rushing's elaborate report, little real im- provement has been effected. It appears likely that the problems discussed last October will be present next Octo- ber. In an effort to help the new HPC committee on de- ferred rushing the Concordiensis will present a series of articles dealing with the problem at other schools and de- scribing how it has been solved. With all the discussion of fraternities, Independents and their difficulties should not be forgotten. The forma- tion of a Student Union and the liberalization of restric- tions on female visitors to the dormitories are two steps which would go a long way to solve independents' social difficulties. A man should not be required to join a fra- ternitS\'- for sodal reasons alone. If dormitory residents were permitted to entertain female guests in their rooms duri~g specified hours, with the door slightly ajar, we feel that no great harm would accrue to the College's morality. An additional safeguard would he to require two couples to be in the room at the same time. And Finally ••. Anyt~i~g else which we ha':e to say can best be told at another time. lt merely remams to thank all who have aided us in publishing the Concordiensis since April 1957 especially: Mordecai Braunstein, Robert Kent Michaei Enzer, Stefan Stein, Kennetlf'· Hasson and Jam'es Swan; and to thank Edward Langholz and Jerrold Hirschen, with- out whose help we never would have attained the editor- ship. At all times we have tried to perform the job to the best of our ability; we hope we succeeded. DSP Friday. March 14• 1958 From the Desk ol Ray Mullane On Trophies ~ '.l'he following letter, written on a piece of yellow, lined paper, was fuund modestly posted on the bulletin board just outside of Foote Menwrial PooL We tfhihk it is worthy of note. To the Union College Swimming Team: Read in t:Qe newspaper-s about your vecy nice .gesture. Some- thing like this is not usually done for a person until after he has died-he cannot possibly appreci- ate it then. I do, and thank you. I do mean this sincerely-'it is the ni{)est thing thltt has ever happened to me. Not meaning to be swellheaded, I feet· that all the swimmers on the past twelve Union Swim~g tea.ms would Uke to have shared your idea. I assume this means something to you ·or you would never have presented the trophy. Sincerely, Ray Mullane Never hesitate to call on me for any reason, Schenectady's Teahouse By Bruce Hauptman Next week looms ·bright ·in the pre-med, finds that learning to .realm of the theater for Schenec- speak English . with a Japanese tady. Aside from cam]}us cultural accent, and even Japanese itself, outbursts such ·as Oedipus Rex is not proving to be the role's and Erroll Garner, the 'Schenecta- greatest {)hallenge. ~or big Bob, dy Civic Players ar.e offering their who i::, 6'3\ tall, must constantly intevpretation of John Patricli's give his audience the illusion that smash Broadway success, Tea- he is 5'10\ tall, Sakini's normal house of the August Moon. The height, at considerable strain to Broadway rendition included his back and should·ers~ David Wayne in the part of .Sa- The. Civic Playhouse cast also ·kini. The recent Hollywood film includes Donald Mack In :the role production starTed Marlon Branda of the American Army cwptain in the same role. who attempts to \orient the or- ientals\ of an Okin-awan 'Village Abrams Plays Sa.kini and Robert Stone who plays the The part of Sakini, In the Civic part Of Colonel Purdy. Other.s in ,production·, is being filled .by one the cast are Bett Bul\kewit Bart ·of Union. College's finer actors, Miller, Guy Buck, Eugene Smook, Robel\t Abrams. We all remember and Daniel Lewis. The part of his wonderful performance this Lady Astor is capably hand.Jed by past fall as' the lovable charlatan, that charming eharacter actress, Captain Boyle in Juno and the Mistletoe Toggenberg. Teahouse Paycock, Bob, who Is a senior is being directed by Irene Mar. first place to join unions, forced in .the second •place .to go along with all plans and programs conceived by their leaders, and forced in the third place to keep their peace .if they wi'sh to keep their jobs (and maybe their health)- it is not at all sur- prising to find a good many trade-union leaders less then re- sonsive to, or honest with, their membership.\ -· PROCTO·R·s \RAINTREE COUNTY\ PLAZA \RODAN!\ THE FLYING MONSTER ''HELL IN KOREA\ STATE \AND GOD CREATED WOMAN\ \CITY OF GOLD .. JAMES Restaurant • 6000 FOOD l!t pric:es you can afford Booth and Fountain Service 426 Stah St. .. Union's leader in Cleaning & Shirt Laundering BALL•s INC. 224 Nott Terrace 01 6~3456 Specfa.I 1 Hr. aean~ng 8erv:lce 7 Hr. Service on Sltlrtw mein. In general, the play <JOncerns the attempts of an Amerlc·an Army mission to \rehabilitate\ Okinawan village of To-biki. In the end, it is some of the army men who adapt the ways of the people they had · hoped to reor- ienate. . The play O•pens · Monday even- mg, March 17, and will run for at least six nerformances. Tickets may be obtained at the Civic Playhouse on Church Street. · RELIABLE RADIO SERVICE 736 State St. EX 3a8668 • Sales & Service On All Makes of RADIOS • Clocks - Portable - ear· lU-Fi Sets Tape Recorders (Next to Mohawk Chevrolet) ~Worried? ~~Then ••• MARRY ,ME Joyce • • • and I 'IJ buy the Wed· ding Ring at Maurice B. <i>raub~rt a Son~. Jewelers, 166 Jay St. We can rely on their 3 generation reputatiQn. Mike Good Food Without Frillt NIOHOLAUS RESTAURANT THE OLD RELIABLE FOR OVER 60 YEARS 268 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY, N. Y. CAFE • Dl 6-9!527 REST •• FR 4-8917 .......... ' .. -· ·Frida - Witl tice Keitp. iron :il ing h hopes footba We other vulge the g1 five D aroun• a few of pa.] flankt he sh utes 1 every co;wh. poy ous jc inexp• ticallJ men str.on! fali. 'is the squad 1-7 re son. mark, optim only . Thl to be pract the li ball l chec1 .pate new' powe lh.opin seem inen ant 1 WJ: next Doyl• becru admi have _,citi the I seem calib waul up ·o \Eve his J after contl close team goinl utes De be iJ into thou out ani em pi grca -of f M< is t1 pear will out littlE fort secc

·Friday, Marcli 14, 1958 Between Seasons By Peter Steingl.ass With the Spring football tice session now in full gear, Keitp. ·Doyle, the new Garnet g.rid- ipon mastermind, Js ra:pidly form- ing his impressions of and his hopes for the future of Union football. · · · We went over to ·his ,Q~fice the other day to see if he 'WOUld d'i-. vulge any ()f !his pihilosophy of. the game, and it .took him all.of five minutes· to Jmve us clustered around him trying tu· understand· -V15Aid Photo by 'Mark Krugman a few scribbled marks on· a piece· _ 11 \ Bruce. Allison ·oversees line play -during a scriffilnage play of pa.pei.\ wb!ich he cw..ed a split in ilie fieldhouse. The ffrotbali spring .practice session began last flanker series.\ The enthusiasm he showed us in tlhese few week Wider the mentorship of the new Garnet head coocb, Keith utes seems to }Iave seeped· into Dolye. Response to· the session thus far has been excellent as the .., , team works out under the merclli'y-vapor lights and oversized every aspect of Doylo s new. fisfui.ets. caruruting ~~ ' · ~~~----------------~--~----~----------------- poyle is faced with the unenvi-, ous job of taking a young .. highly inexperienced team which is prac- tically devoid of returning letter- men and shaping them into a str-ong unit ·bY Sept. 21\ of next fali. ln addition to these aspects 'is the :fact that last year's varsity squad compiled an uliimpressive 1-7 record in a po·or Garnet sea- son. Yet all of ·Keith Doyle's re~ marks to us were filled with the optimism of a roan who seems only to be ~ed to winning. . Thus far Doyle's optimlsm seems· to be Wl9ll founded. The Spring practice session has seen 11)ne of the best turnouts in Union foot- ball history. Over l)O men have checked ()Ut uniforms to pa.rti.ci- .pate in the early drills, so the new coach at least has the man- power to build the team he ,is ho:Ping for. The lure of varsity ball seems to ha.ve brought out many :inen who were previously reluct- ant to put on helmets. Dutchmen .Score 50 Points To Bag 2nd in State Meet By John Lubetkin . Rolling up 50 points to take an unofficial second place m th~ Upper New York State Swimming Championships, held m Syracuse, the Garnet swimming team ended an . excellent season. Colgate dominated the ten team~--------------­ competition With six first places, and seventy points. Coach Wald- are several promising freshmen, roan's squad, however, was ruble including Bill Kirchgasser, Glenn to beat many larger schools, in- · Prebus, Dave Muench, and Carl chiding Syracuse, cortland state, Schuroan-all are freestylers. Buffalo U., and RPI. The 195&-59 t~am should be Co~Captains Pete Hennan and slightly stronger than this year's Ed Ruth were the individual Gar- crew. It will have all the depth, net stars. Herman .took Union's if not more, of this year's squad, only first place in .the 200 yard and all the sophomores have now breaststrolte in a record ·breaking had a valuable year of experience. time of 2:36.8. He also took a While there will undoubtedly be sixth in the butterfly. Ruth took some changes, the lineup should one of Union;s four seconds -in basically remain the same. It is the 220 yard freestyle. In the 440 ngt known what the schedule will he broke the Union record with be, but assuming the same teams, a 5:00.7 effort but finished third. · o't' ones of equal caliber. a sHghtly These times ·brought the total better record can ·be expected. number of records broken this Williams will, of course, provide season to twenty-nine. the big test. Team Depth Sh1Jwtl This year's team was perhaps The Garnet demonstrated their the greatest in Union's history. It was also among the five best great depth .by placing six more in New York State. With the ex- men in other events. The 400 yard medley relay 'team took a caption of the backstroke-where second by edging RPI in an event Kirk Bent was by himself-the team generally had two good men which saw Colgate break the Syra- capable of placing in every event. cuse •pool record. In the 20() yard Because of the new rule regard- butterfly Buddy Hoffer narrowly ing the breast and butterfly missed his own record as he took a strong second .. Olaf Meinander, strokes It was expected that some UnionT Team Starts Spring Dril·l Under the leadership of Tom •Cartmill, the varsity team began Its intensive practice in preparation for the forthcom- ing season this week. Three new schools have :been add'ed to .this year's schedule making it an eleven game season. The returning varsity players Brad Gibbs, !Matt Schein, Dave: Finkel, Ron A!lpet- and Oren Stern are very ably backed up by the strong turnout from the sopho- more >Class. These veterans of the freshman team are Roger Hewitt, Dave Meirowitz, Charles Roden, Jim Reisman,' Kirk Evans, Jay Vanneck, Bruce Lawton and Ted Ross, Reisman and Roden were the first two men on last year's frosh squad. · Captaining this year's will be Dave Finkel, a senior from New York City, who will· vie for the number one position with sophomore Jay Vanneck,. from New Rochelle, New York. Bruce Lawton and Brad Gibbs occupy third and fourth positions respectively. Practi-ces are ·being held daily in the Alumni Gym and the Field. House until after spring vacation. At this time the team will move: outdoors to the new tennis courts opposite the Delta Upsilon house. Coach CartmiJl feels despite the loss of six letter.men including last years number one roan, \the chan•ces for a successful season are just as good as they were last year.\ The varsity's first encounter will be against Harpur on Satur- day, April 19. ---o•----- Intra Swimming Meet Mar. 118, 19 3 Garnet Places Second In Union Track Meet Five indoor track records fell during the second annual Union College Invitational Track Meet,. held at the Memor- ial Fietdhouse last Saturday afternoon. The meet saw -----------~.·Alfred University complete- ly overwhelm an eleven school field. The Garnet . came in second with Buffalo State third. The Saxons rolled up a total of '37¥.! points for the afternoon's work. They were led by star dis- . tance men Joey DiCamillo and FNtnk Finnerty. DiCamillo ran ·the miie in superb form, staying 'in front of the field at the start· :of the race and pulling. well out ·of reach ·by the last laps. His ·time was 4:24.6, chopping more than six seconds off the old field- bouse mark of 4:30.4. Dick Lewis ·.came in third for the Dutchmen. Union's Tom Hoffman and Di- Camillo staged a thriHing duel in ·.the two mile I'lln. DiCaroiilo Bill Pike roWids the turn on the fieldhouse cinder track lead- ing in the 600 yard run during last week's invitational meet. Track Summaries 50-yard dash-!. Cole (C); 2. Clark (A); 3. Kappus (A) ; 4. Ulmer (A). 'l'-:05.7. Mile run-1. Finnerty (A) : 2. Best (R); 3. Lewis (U); 4. Wangler <L). 'l'-4 :~·!.&. (New fieldhouse record). 55-yard high hurdles-1. Clark (A) : 2. Jeckel (U}; 3. Davis (U); 4. Eld (H). 'l'-:07.8. 'l'wo-miles-1. DiCamillo (A) : 2. stayed right at Hoffman's heels for a)most · the whole race and then in the last few laps went a :few strides ahead of him. At about 200 yards from the finish both men started to kick, but Di~ Camillo had more left and went on to win by about twenty yards. His time of 9:52.9 broke the rec- ord of 10:00 set last year by Un- icn's Johnny Parillo. The only first place take!\ by the Garnet squad was in the 50 yard dash. Di<:k Cole took that with a :05.7 .mark. The small col- lege sprint champion ran one of the qualifying heats in 5.5 seconds to tie -his own fieldhouse mark. Other records set were: 44 feet, 7% inches in the shot put by AI Marella of Ithaca College; 2:20.8 by Larry Sweet of Alfred in the 1,000 yard run; and a mark of 3:44.8 by the mile relay team of Buffalo State. Hoffman (U); 3. Poole (H); 4. Wil- liams (A). T-9:52.9. (New field- bouse record). 600-yard run-1. Bessell (BS); 2. Garnet Tallies 18 Hudson (H); 3. Hughes (BS) ; 4. Wilcox (A). T-1:16.1. Although Union had only one 10()0-yard run-1. Sweet (A) ; 2. first place. they wound up second Bartz <L): 3. Lewis (l'); 4. Patton to Alfred with 18 points. The ~~di. 1'-2 :20.8. <:Kew field house rec- Dutchmen took second and third Freshman relay- I. Buffalo State; places in the 55 yard high hur- 2. Hamilton; 3. HPI; 4. Cortland. dies with Ron Jeckel and Gus TM~i~ 6 · relay-1. Buffalo State; 2 .. Davis doing the scoring, third RPI; 3. Hamilton; 4. vermont. T- place in the l,OO~yard run and 3:44.8. (New fieldhouse record). AI- four.th place in the shot put, fred disqualified. won by Le · s d Ch k M Shot put-1. Marella (l); 2. Pow- WI an uc · ar- hida (A) ; 3. Pierce (A) ; 4. Marshall shall, respectively. (U). Distance-44 feet, 7¥.. inches. The meet drew a large crowd When we casually went over next year's schedule for the team, Doyle's \philosophy\ of the game became a lot clearer to us. He admitted that the team. would have to face many strong teams _,citing Amherst and Williams as the b'est examples, but he didn't seemed disturb!>d a.t all :by the caliber of the competition he would face. \No team is made up ·of .supertnen;\ he said to us. \Every · football player puts on his pads the same way, one leg after another.~· :S:e expects every contest his team enters to be a close. wel!-played game. \If any team's going to beat us, they're going to have to play sixty min- utes of solid football.\ the .second part of Union's most records would fall,- but the total of twenty-eight (in six events) powerful 1-2 punch since O'Neill clearly shows the te>am's intrinsic· and Bartner, was narrowly ~;Jdged ability. by teammate Herman but was The intramural swim meet will be held on Tuesday and Wednes- day of next week at Foote :Mem- orial Pool in the Gyro. All teams must have at least six members, who have to register at the pool, in. order to be eligible for the meet. All entries are limited to three events apiece; either one in·dividual event and two. relays or two individual events and one relay. On Tuesday, :Maroh 18, the fol- lowing events will be held: 50 yard freestyle, 50 yard baak stroke, 75 yard individual medley, and the 20() yard four .man relay. On Wednesday. March 19, the 50 yard breast stroke, 100 yard free style and 150 yard three man medley relay will be held. <:-;ew fteldhouse record). d ff' · t d b f Pole vault-1. Carmean (I) ; 2. caso an was o lJC!a e Y many 0 (C); Keller (N); 4. Kelly (A) and the coJ.lege professors. The chem- Bonbright (H) tied. Height-12 feet. istry department turned out at- Broad jump-1. Smith (R) ; 2. Kel- roost en masse for this service. ley (A) ; 3. McFarlen (V) ; 4. Ulmer B!'ll Ketz and th~ Athletic De- Doyle assm:ed us that he w,o-uld be instituttng ma,ny new features into the play of the 1ieam. Al- though he will operate basically out of a split T offense. :he has an intricate system: of flan1ter employment that should add greatly to the spectator enjoyment oof football._ Most important of all(however, is the fact that Keith Doyle ap- pears to be the type of man who will inspire his player!> to put out their' maximum effort and little extra toward a winning ef- fort. He refuses to come out second best. still far ahead of the rest of the field in the 200 yard· breaststroke. The Union volleyball team will 'rhe 100 yard freestyle saw Jim compete against RPI, Broome Mac;Donald barely miss the school Tech, and Scranton University in record as he placed fourth. the an invitational round-robin tour- 400 yard freestyle relay team took nament at Scranton, Penn., Sat~ a third, and ·Bill Tl\ader took a . urday, March' 15. Trophies will fifth in the dive. 'be awarded to the first and sec- Next year's squad will lose but ond teams in the tournament. one member of its eleven letter- men. Olaf Meinander will return to Finland, but making up for his loss will be Pete Wells. Lew Buckman, this year's exchange student to · St. Andrews, · and varsity letter winner, will be back. Also expected to join the varsity All .Freshmen interested in managing baseball this season please contact either Art Law- rence, or JeJ;ry Fleisher at the Phi Sigma. Delta fraternity hous,e. ••••••••• ?oo.-L.......,r-- •• '. EARTHMEN . • • • . • . • • • • • . • • • • • • • • •• • • • • • • Are you ready, willing and able to consider _ OUT- OF-THIS -WORLD - ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES Hamilton Standard is emerging as one of the most dynamic, prolific, respected and pioneering organizations in the concep- tlorl and creation of missile, rocket and general ·equipment fot oltra advanced aircraft. If this appeals to yoo as much as it apparently-does to other enginee·ring graduates. , • circle your calendar with the date, time and place below: HAMILTON STANDARD will be here: MARCH 20 see your placement officer for time and place HAMILTO~N STANDARD Division of United Aircraft Corporation Bradley Field Road, Windsor Locks, Connocllcul Happy news! The ARROW (A). Distance-2() feet, 2 inches. ~ Final standings-Alfred 37 ; Union partment think that within a few 18; Buffalo State 12; RPI 11, Ithaca years this compartively young 10: Hamilton 9¥.,; LeMoyne 4: Cort- meet will attain real prom. inence land 3; Vermont 3; Niagara 2 ; Os- wego, no score. a.\::long colleges in the state. University Glen This brand-new shirt style com- bines your favorite features-: but~ ton at rear of collar, box pleat in back and Mitoga®-tapered fit. (See illustration.) In stripes, checks, solids, $5.00 and up . Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc. ARROW~ -first in fashion ~---------------------- L. CL BALFOUR CO. Gazette Press • 332 State St. ......... ~ Fraternity Jewelers BADGES -RINGS- FAVORS JEWELRY STAT?o'::-i.t~ ::;:RAMS OLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHI1iS Write or Call . CARL SORENSEN l'll MaNbaJl St.,S)T&CW~e,N. ~. Phone Granite 1')..7887

4 Lt. Colonel Strange To Succeed Sheldon Lt. Colonel ~rhad S. Strange of Union, South Carolina, has been selected by the U. S. Air Force for assignment as Professor of Air Science and Commanding Officer of the Air Force ROTC unit at Union. Currently serving in Japan,~·~---~---~----­ Colonel Strange has had previous overseas assignments in Puerto H. PC Rico, Trinidad, and Alaska. He • • • will enroll in the Academic In- struction Course of the Air Uni- (Continued from Pa,ge l> varsity at Maxwell Air Force dormitories would be more strict- Base, Alabama, during the com- ly enforced to eliminate the fre- ing summer months. quent mfringements which al!eg- A graduate of Clemson A. and edly took -place last year. O:ther M. College in South Ca;rolina, he rules would remain the same as holds the American Campaign in past years. Medal, the Armed Forces Reserve Most .of the proposed changes -Medal, the Commendation Rib- are aimed at providing the fresh- bon, the National Defense Service .nen more time to study and par- Medal, and the World War II Vic~ ticipate in campus activities. tory Medal. In response to a request by Dan· Col. Stl'ange will assume his iel Riesel, President of the HPC new duties at Union at the close Stanford Waite appointed a com- of the current academic year, re- mittee, with Riesel as Chairman, placing Lt. Colonel Porter F. to study deferred rushing more Sheldon, who has been Professor. thoroughly. Sentiment in the of Ail· Science since 1955. Colonel HPC, ho\\ever, as well as in the Sheldon's new assignment has not administration has generally been yet been announced. opposed to defened rushing in .Oedipus ... (Contmued from Page 1) will be lifted if the murderer of the old king is found. Oedipus, surprised that the murder of a king has gone unavenged for so long a time, begins to search for the mui·derer. He issues a proclamation demanding that any- one who knows something of the murder be brought in. The blind prophet, Teiresias, is brought be- fore him. Tieresias is driven to reveal that Oedipus is the mur- derer. the past. In an effort to help the Com- mittee, the Concordiensis will be- gin a survey of deferred rushing and preferential bidding in next week's issue. In other action, the spring cam- paign of the Campus Chest was announced. The drive, whi<!h will begin after Spring vacation. will place emphasis on individual so- licitation, with a goal of one dol- lat· per student. The only agency authorized to solicit student funds, the Chest will stress Union's poor reco!'d of contribution compareB. with col· leges of similar size. Professor Alan Roberts, Advis- or ·to the HELP students, spoke briefly about the HELP program for 1958-59, and Pt·esident Stanford Waite reminded· the HPC of its poor fin•ancial outlook for the fu- ture. ---0--- Hutton •.. (Continued from Page 1) these state-sponsored schools, anct prohibitive costs are no handicap to the capable. Substantial stip- ends are sometimes granted to worthy students. The significance of education in the U.S.S.R. is further supported by the fact that professors of sciences and allied studies are the third-high- est paid group in the Soviet Union, being outstripped only by high-ranking government offiocials and certain students of the arts. Friday. M~rch 7. 1958 Fot Your Information Conclusion lege Lectures Series, 0C, SP.M., ·Cha· racter R· esea· rch Friday, Marcb 14,. Travelogue Film, Yugoslavia and Austria, EE-22, 7:30 l?.M. (One Pt. Cr.). Open to public without char·ge. Saturday, March 15. Glee Club Concert with Wells College Glee Club, MC, 8 p_M.; Interva·rsity Christian Fellowship, OC, 3 P;M. and dinner in West College, {J spe,ak.er, Miss Germaine Bree, · · · . · · ' · · · · · · · · . . . Head' of the Dept. of Romance By MelVyn Schnall Languages, New York Univer- sity, Albert Camus, , Man Be- (This is the conclus1on of a \the .strength with which you tweeaTwoWorlds (2 Pts. Cr.). st!ries begun in last wee:k;'s CJ.Qn- throw all of your potential into PufJ!I() cordially invited. eoi'diensis on the Character Re- what seems to be the major pur- search Project. Lll.st week's ·ar- pose :f.Or which you are alive,\ it Thu!-=stlay, Ma.rcll 20. Fra.ternity ticle enumerated the aims ~nd would seem if:iha;t Dt•. Lig<m is as Night; Glee Club Reh.eusal, OC, ~pp!ications of the program.) · chuck-full of character as one P.M. 4:3()· :P.M.; Mountebanks Open-. can be. He has devoted hiS li'fe Sunday, March 16. Vesper.s, MC, ing-,. Oedipus Rex, Greek Trag, A Field Services ·Program. has to .the .study of chara-cter, and to · 94:1\' dil,ected' by Prof. Wingate, .recently been institutlled Ethand ks · its teaching. He didn't rise to '7:30 P.M., speaker, Dr. Edwin Theater 8 _. 30 P.M. Call FR 7 _ 8011 • to a ·grant fro!ll the Li y n ow-· t . . . 0. Kennedy '21, ·public ·cordially t 1 Th. • • t k gree the mterv1ewer. excusmg invited (2 pt, Cr.); Katherine for ·tickets after 1 P.M. . Play men ' nc. · IS servHJe ~ es himself on .the basis of the lazi- E. Fox Exhibition of Pain lings, wiU <::ontinue through Supday, findings and publishes them for ness of old age, howeveJ;\. it was Oak Room Gallerv of the HoteJ. Mll..l·~h 23; .American Institute· of utlse\ atuhtside of thbe cudrrictuldu~ so obvious that the interview was -\ Ra.<dib Engrs. EE-2. 2, '8 P.M. · 1 a' · ey may e -a o.p e m a · t pt' th D t ' st d. Schenectady, 3-;6 P.M.; Dance ·.specific area. Workshops are m erru Iiig e · oc or s u Y Band Rehea S ·J OC 9 to 11 of two st.atistics ·boo. ks. Through- ·r a: • · • ' :Friday, March 21. Daily Assem- held during the summer to which PM d d out the interview, ):J.e kept :hiS · · bly-, 'Union College Choir and many intereste parties come an place in one book with one hand. MondJty, Marclh 17. Payment of Stadent .Jazz Ensemble, MC, participate. Discussions· are he~d Dr. LigOJ:1. feels that the most un\ Repeated Coul'Se ·Fee in Busi- No<Jn; F1aculty Women's Club, on problems and questions in t e .ique teaching of Jesus, and the Eo::me of Mrs. Way, u. Union field ()f character development in ness Office; lntervarsity Christ- t} . h d most important of the dimensions ian Fellowship, Student Lounge. Avenue, 10 A.M.; Film Classics, you :1,, and m many ot ~r fiel s. of <lharacter is that of vicarious 7 P.M.; FRESHMAN MEET- M()o.lln.a. (U.S. 192 6> ·and Muscle Four such workshops will be con- sacrifice. \Vicarious sactifice re.- ING (RE . QUI.,..·\'D> wi'th Dean :Beach .(U.S. 1950) EE•22. , · 7 and· ducted in June and J-qly of 1958, · . , H f 1 th t ,.....,. h f h' h · t k t qu1res -courage. · e ee s . a H tl Me N _ M . 1 9 F.M. (2 Pts. cr.) .. ,· Mounte- t rae o w 1c · will a e place a ld d . t un ey, , O(}n, 1n ·emor1a U - . wor peace an successful m e- barrks· Product.ion Oedinus Rex,· · nil)n. Chapel; Math Society, David . ..,. gration may depem! u.pon .the de- Hudson will .talk on Non-Eu- Th~atel', '8.:30 P.M. In aU of its work, Character velopment of .t:his trn.i:t .. clideaon Geometry, CE. 210, at Researeh endeavors to- maintain 8:00 P.M. the greatest scienti.fic accuracy, Not POsitive oil Answers · Pllilos End Season. As they come to new areas in With all these years of work Tuesday, Marc.h 18. Daily Assem- which their .own personal re- in the _field, ;or .. Ligon does not bly, speaker, Prof. Clare Graves, Th.a Philomatheans c<Jncluded sources seem limited, or inexperi- presume to be positive of a:ll the MC, Noon; Faculty Colloquim, the cuJ:\.t'ent season at the Brook• enced, consultants are called in. answers. On the contrary, he re-, Baiiey Hall 202, 4:30 P.M., Jed lyn CoLlege Tournament last Fri- Such outstanding men as Gard- vealed that the main reason Dr. by Prof. James A. Riedel; Stu- day and Saturday, March ·7 and 8. ner Murphy, John .Anderson,. Rob- Koppe Was hired, as opposed to dent Chapter o:( AlEE, DC, 7:30 '11hoe team competing ·at Brook- ert Havighurst, Ro'jer Barker. another .psychologist, was because P.M.; Student Council, Hale lyn consisted of Simeo Gallo and Harold Jones, Vernon Jones, and \the other one ·agreed with every- House Lounge, 7:15 P.M.; Pho- Brad. Erinton for the negative Alf].'ed Baldwin, to mention but thing we said, and Koppe didn't.'' tography Club, Silliman, 7:30 and .Jo-el Ticknor and John Pha- a few, have worked with the In Dr. LAgon's words, \What you P.M.; American SoCiety Mech. len o:on affirmative. Th!lY finished Character Research Project on know .is good; what you know. Engrs. <Scheil:ectady Chapter) with a 64 record, placi:tlg them their various undertakings. that you. don't know is. almost EE-22, 8 P.M.; Intramural close to the· speaker's trophy. equally good, sometimes it's even swimming meet, pool at 4:30 In 1 s- 52 the Union team won a Has ·TWo Opinions better; but what you don't know P.M. perlll!an.ent trophy in the compe- It is only appropriate, but in- you don't know, especially if you tition at Brooklyn. It is presently deed imperative that we have think you do 'lmow it~that~s what Wednesday, March 19. Hillel Counselorship, Silliman, Noon; Rosary, OC, Noon ; ·Christian Assn. Silliman, 4:30 P.M.; Chats on Health (second in a series of five talks), Physics Lecture Room, 7 P.M., Dr. Myron Weav- er, College Physician; Episco- pal Eucharist, MC. 7 A.M.; Col- ·on e:s:hibition in Bailey Hall. some understanding of the proj- 'gets you in .trouble.\ ect's founder, Dr. Ernest Ligon. T'ichets for the Erroll Garner · jaz2 concert will be available · onl::y ~t the Student Activities • office after Monday, Marc:h.--\17. He received his B.A. and M.A. at Texas Christian, his B.D. and Riedel at Colloquium Ph.D. (in psychology) at Yale. · Professor .James A. Riedel will After teaching at Connecticut Col- speak on Unconditional History lege for two years, he came to at fue fifth colloquilim, Tuesday, Union in 1929. Viewed against· March 18 at 4 P. M. in Bailey his own definition of oharacter, Hall 202. JOB FACTS FROM DU P:DNT ~···. lift< 1J ~ PA1_ off' '; .' . . . BETTER THINGS FOR·IlETTE'R LIVING .. 'THROUvH CHEMISTRY LIBERAL EMPlOYEE BENEFIT PROGRAM AT DUPONT INCLU;DES I'N:SURANCE, SAVI·NGS AN_D STOCK PLANS Oedipus is outraged and claims that Teisesias is plotting with the Queen's brother . .Creon, to over- throw him. Oedipus starts throw- ing accusations at Creon, and Jo- casta enters to say that it was impossible for the former king to have been killed by him since the murder took place at a far- away crossroads. Oedipus real- izes that the place Jocasta has mentioned is the spot where he himself had killed a man Through a. series of events, Oedipus soon realizes that he is the murderer: in effect, the very man he Is seek- Ing. A8 Oedipus achieves a full realization of what he has done, Jocasta commits suicide by ·hang- ing, The King bemoans his fate which has come true and dashes out his eyes. He had indeed. mar- ried his mother and killed his father. He banishes himself from Thebes. Creon becomes King. The play ends with the chorus moralizing on .how such a prominent man as Oedipus meets so stormy an end, and that no man can ·be calfed happy, until after he has died. .Albert Katz will play the part of Oedipus; Helen Slayton will appear in the !'ole of Jocasta; Creon will be played by Robert Messard and Fred Hall will play Teiresias. Others in the cast are Bill Herman. Gary Gilmore and Merle Galusha. These impressions of the Soviet Union were gained by Dr. Hutton as a result of a technical electri- cal com.rr.ission's survey of scien- tific advances through(}ut the world. In 1957 the convention was held in Russia, and Dr. Hut- ton was among nineteen Arneri- · can scientists and engineers at- tending. Following the lecture, slides were shown, and an informal question and answer period was conducted. WHAT'S YOUR Ll!~.l? DU PONT N'EEDS ALL KINDS OF ENGINlERS r----------------~ PERSONALIZED TRAINING Means More Security, Greater Real Income To Young Gralluates Professor Gifford Wingate of the Dra.maties Department will do the directing, assisted by Michael Berkman. --o-- There will be a required meet- Ing of all freshmen next Monday, March 17, at Noon In Memorial Chapel. STOWE'S POPULAR ski DORM THE ROUND HEARTH There's nothing like it! Join in the delightfully casual fun of Ski- land's most unique, popular lodge. Live dorm style , •• $5.75 daily, $35 weeklyi 2 meals. Fa- mous circular fireplace sparkles huge dine-dance area. lounge, game room, Fun galore! Fine food, good beds.Write: Folder or Tel. STOWE, Vt., Alpine l-7223. llr;~-;~-;:;-;~~~;; 1 1 presents ! MGM's I I ~~ I The Brothers I Karamazov I I I I in technicolor I ! starring I l YUL BRYNNER I I I Special Rates to II the Union College I I I Community I I I l MARCH 19 to 25 I l l ~---------------------~ FERRO'S REST AU RANT Spec:ializing in ftalian·Ameriean Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar Free Parking PIZZA 01 6-9554 1115 .Barrett St. DuPont has always needed ~hem­ ists and chemical engineers,. 2nd still does. But today, there'sc;ridcal need for engineers in almost every other field- civil, mechanical, elec- trical, instrumental and industrial engineering, to name a few. Expansion is the major r.eason. In 195 7, .for example, sales at DuPont were nearly two .bil~ion dollars. Four new plants were being built. New research programs were being laimched. New products were moving into the production and marketing stages. Engineers aud scientists Qf all kinds work in 75 Du Pont plants and 98 lahora:.lol'ies in 26 states. All of this tearls to broaden opportunities for the young scientist ami engineer at D11 .P()nt. If you're interested in fi:nCiing full scope for your ability, an<!· this includes a great many special<fie1d~, DuPont offers you plenty of c.ppor- tunity to move ahead. SEND FOR INFORMATION BO«liCLET ON JOB OPfORTUNITI~S AT DU PONT Booklets on jobs at DuPont are vours for the asking, Subjects t:overc;d in· elude: mechanical, civil, metalbx-:rgical, chemical~ eleetrieal, instrumemtotion and industrial engineers; atondc en. • ergy, technical sales, business ad ~ninis­ tration, research and developjnent. Name the subject that interests iooou in a letter to DuPont, 24-94·-F Nc-21JOIU'S Bnildiilg 9 Wilmington 98, Del. by F. l. Johns DuPont Representative When you join DuPont as a scientist or engineer, you're given en actual project assign· f' ment almost at once and begin 1 to learn your job by doing it. 1 That's the essence of ortr train· I ing pkilosophy at DuPont. I Our objective is to give you responsibility at the outset and qualify you quickly for more, because the more we grow, the more we need trained leaders. Although there is no· one training program at Du Pont (each of our many depa'rt· ments runs its own), all have several basic features in com- mon. All are personalized- tailored to the new man's back- ground and interests. All in- volve close supervision on an informal, day-to-day basis. Antl flll permit periodic evalu- ation of the new tnan. - This flexible system helps the new man to move ahead according to his abilities. He f gets to know DuPont and his 1 job quickly. He gets a head- 1 start on future responsibility. I 1 You probably have questions I \I about this program and- how I 1 you'd fii into it. I'll be glad to 1 I try to answer them when I visit 1 I your campus. Why not sign I I up for a DuPont intenJiew at I ~ your placement office now? I L---------~-~----~ Du Pont believes that \the employee builds his own joh security hy the way he does his work, hy his contri· butions to the progress of the Com- pany and by his readiness to accept responsibility. But Du Pont meets the employee more than halfway with a program of benefits designed to help him as he ;~.dvances. Your employee benefits go to work\ the day you join the Company. They grow and build equity for you as the yeats go by. Vacations, life insurance, group hospital and surgical coverage, accident and health insurance, pen· sion and bonus plans are all part o£ the program. Let's look at a speciaJ.example, the Thrift Plan. You become eligjh1e for it after one year with the Company. For each dollar you invest in U. S. Savings Bonds, the Company contrih· utes t\venty-five cents toward the pur· chase of Du Pont cominon stock in · your name. Roughly 65 per cent of the Company's 90,000 employees are ' now participating in the plan. When you're deciding on a career, security is only one consideration. But it's an important one to you and ymu famQy. At DuPont, security is a bright part of the future awaiting the college graduate. * * * More than 700 of the some llOO degree-granting colleges and universi- ties in the U. S. are represented at DuPont. Of these 700, mote than haH are the smaller liberal arts coll!'lges. ,_._. vc F Y< c~ 01, pa sp an do l \M thE bel gr( wa fat m< deJ Eu l syl an as vir tht op an HI TlJ rO] cr1 pe wi cit pr ili: WE on \f1 b,i: hi: ar. ou ar. th Ia th th Tl se a tb j ~ m h' .. tl rt VI 0 s• s p ll s· ti f: y J t i: e 0 I 'i E I t

.. Oed.pus: A Review Page 2 ·------------------~' VOL. 87 •• No. J,B • Founded at Vnion CQllege in 1877 SCHENEG-TADY. ·N.Y., MARCH 21, 1958 Profes~or Germaine Bree luniorPr,om Gives Lecture on Camus .. Date Causes • Campus Police Page 3 PRICE TEN CENTS Miss Germ~ine Br.ee,. Professor of French at New York University, delivered a public lecture on \Albert Camus, a Man Between Tw_o yvorlds\ Wednesday night in Old Chapel. The speech 1s,~· ~· ----~~~...._::_ __ Trustees Decide To Construct New $700,000 Freshman Dorm The new freshman dormi- DebateAtSC A heated debate over the i J «r ~ J tory will be an independent date of the Junior Prom was · . · building constructed on the the main order of business · pasture opposite North Col- part of an annual series sponsored by Union College and made possible by a fund donated bY James Hyde. Professor Broee stressed the \Man · Between Two Worid·s\ . theme throughout the lecture. She . began :by emphasizing the 'back- ground of Albert Camus. Camus: was born in North Africa. l!is · father was a day lal;lorer, his mother was deaf and had a speech defect. He considers Africa, not Europe, his home. Mij;!s Bree then brought ·out .the symbol of the. sun, sea, mountains and beautiful landscape of Africa as its~lf symbolic of Camus's \In- vincibl~ ~ummer.\ She stressed . the fact that Camus looks at EuT- · op~ and the political, economic and .social aspect as an African · Hrom sun to darkness occurs in The Stranger). Camus finds Eu- rope an enigma with evid!lnt cruelty. Where Africa doesn't a,p- pear and Europe dpes, he deals with a philosophical type of hell, citing The Fall as evijl.ence. \The present crisis which is in the civ- ilization is a dehumaniza.tion,\ she went on to say. Professor Bree then el:~~bora.ted' on Camus' identification with the \fundamental man.\ Discussing b,is early background and citing his ·corresponden<Je with relations and close friends, she brought out his feeling of happiness among the working classes. Miss Bree went on to talk about the popular feeling that Camus is a nihilist. \Camus believes that though we do not understand life; there is. a certain way to live it;\ Though he destroys our present set of values he is still seeking a new set. Mlle. ·Bree conjectures that in his. new book now in prep- (Q'ontinued on Page 6) GERMAINE BREE at the Student Council meet·. ~: I · lege, the Board of Trustees . T d h M h . ' ~RT't'\ CO\.\.~. E. d . d d 1 t k Th d . mg on· ues ay nig t, ·arc .~.·. ·~ ·~ _ _ ec1 e as wee . e . ecis- 18. UJ - - - ion was reached after consid- Donald May,, Junior Class rep- ·Q: eration of the possibility Of resentative, moved that \the Jun- k adding wings to the present iOr Class be given permission by (f) r--, the Student councii to. study the I I PRo-p<~set> West College dormitory. feasibiiity of moving the Junior 1--' sne Carter Davidson, Pre~ident of Prom fr<Jm tqe weekend of April ,_ \ I O'l= l'\eW the College, stated that he is 25-26 to the week-end of May 2-3, LO 1 t ~~m strongly in favor of the construe- and if the ·findings prove that · · :1 _.,/ tion of a separate building. He . this could be done, that the Jun- Z 1 1 1 pointed out that the disturbance ior Class be given the d.iscretion l created by construction crews to do so.\ · _j adding wings to West College would make such a project un- At a meeting of the Junior desirable. Prom· Committee on Monday 5 E WAr;( O ?LACE Earlier this semester, the Presi- night, it was understood that dent's Office ran a poll -of the President of the Junior Cla.s!!, ~~ residents living in North College . John Ferguson, would make the The students were asked whether above motion. Ferguson later they would prefer to live in Wes-: discovered, however, that because College and whether they consid- of contracts which had previously ered the walk to that building for been made with the Lester Lan- Diagram.atic view of proposed site of new freshman dorm. ~neals a nuisance. They voted in and Coleman Hawkin musi- Construction is expected to ·begiR. by the Fall of 1959. • over\'vhelmingly in favor of their cal groups a change in dates was present rooming arrangements i11 unfeasable, .and decided not to N:>rth College. make the motion. Unaware of n· Cl G T lk d 0 Mcl{i.m, Mead and White, :Col- Ferguson's last minute decision, r. . ·ar· e raves a . . e . n lege architects, are completing however, May made the motion. final detailed draw.ings of the Some Council members favored St d t H • T proposed building. These plans the proposed ·change on the , u . en , app'lness u• ··es. will be submitted to the Federal grounds that the RPI and Sk.idw It Housing and Home Finance A new group, the Student more Proms arc scheduled for ' Agency which must give final ap- z . . O . April 25, while others i)Ointed out . \More and more students, driven by the need to con- proval of a $700,000 loan for con- a a ounc1 rue pro 1 s · orm-to fit in, are entering our colleges; colleges which struction of the dormitory. The UnionSZO Chapter Set IOmst rga.mzation, is be· tb. t c ·1 1 hib't f ing formed on campus. The proms from being held. within a teach things the students have no real interest in, and Collt>ge hopes to have the plans SZO operates under the su- week preceding Medical Board out for bidding by the summer pervision of the American Examinations. ' these students enter activi- and hopes to start constructioTJ. Zionist Council and has 54 Professor Joseph Finkelstein, H· .PC Rushi•ng Set · ties partly because it is the l:leftJre the Pall, 1959 semester. Coordinator of Student Activities. thing to do and partly be- '.rhe construction of the dormi- chapters in the United States cr,mmented \no matter what you H Fi t c· f b' h tory will allow Union to increase and Canada, comprising (of the Student Council) decide, as rs on a cause t ey are dissatisfied .its c;>nrollment by approximatelY about 2,500 members. It has we wm honor .the contracts which with American college or 120. It is hoped that North aild we have signed with the arches- The newly formed House Presi- university life.\ This was Routh Colleges will 'be remodeled no religious \affiliations and ttas.\ dents! council committee to study the conclusion arrl·.ved at by in order to allow the addition Gf in no way competes with es- deferred rushing bad its first or- recreation rooms and parlors t bl . h d 1 . . Date Unchanged ganizational meeting on Tuesday· P1·ofessor Clare Graves in a where students can entertain a IS e re 1g1ous groups on af Ma 1 · Despite c-ontentions of s()me ternoon, rch 8. speech I·n Memon'al Ch pel their guests. campus. C~unc~l repres(lntatives that indi- Daniel Riesel of Delta Upsilon, a ----o-- The purposes of SZO are three viduals, fraternities and campus Chairman of the committee, was on Tuesday, March 18. Dl..z •. lOS. Qm.OnSO·r f.old. Many local conclaves, sem- publications might have already delegated to investigate the prob- Citiim a number of authorities r It up inars and national meetings are .made plans for the weekend of !em from the viewpoint of .the on the later rewards of actively held, durong which representatives April 25, it was argued that a bet-. Ad'ministration, and' Thomas participating in activities, Dr. Weaver Presents 2nd Health Chat Cam:p· ·us DebateS· from different colleges get togeth- ter athletic program favored :May earthy of Phi Delta Theta was Graves showed this to be a myth. er. Besides ·bhe socia.I aspect, it 2 for Prom weekend. a.ssigned to a.pproac:h frater]:lities Dividing college students into four Under the auspices of the Philo- allows people of simllar intellec- After a heated debate during for possible solutions. Martin categories: namely, th~ ones who Speaking on Emotional Balance vs. Psychiatric Disorders, Dr. My- ron N. Weaver pr!;!sented the sec- ond of five informal \chats\ on health last Wednesday. The col- lege physician discussed problems of modern living and the effects of stress on emotional balance and ·physical health. ma~thean Society, the tradition of tual interests to exchange ideas which strong sentiment wa:s ex- Bender of Kappa Nu will study only study, the ones who both holding parliamentary debates on and projects. pTes.sed on both sides, President deferred rushing at other col- study and p~ticipate, the ones the Union College <Jampus will ;be Sponsors Publications of the Student Council John Glass leges. who 'Participate to the detriment resumed. 'The debate will be held Secondly, :the organization spon- adjourned the meeting for five CONCORDY to Help of their studies, and those who Wednesday evening, .April 9, in sors many pub1icatiops, including minutes while the representatives The committee will make in- apparently do nothing in either Old Chapel. a \workshop\ series of research of the Junior Class met in private quiries, study the problem, and field, he pointed out that neither The debate question will ·be Be-. •pamphlets submitted by its mem- caucus. When the meeting was report to the HPC sometime with- monetary reward nor positions of solved: That the United Sta.tes .. bers,. a national newspaper, the re-convened, Ferguson announced in the next month in an effort responsibility in. the community Supreme Courl; Should determine Zionist Collegiate and the ·Student that the 11epresentatives of the to help the committee, the Con- are influenced by participation in presidential disability. A .fMulty Zionist Magazine. Memllers are Clas.s of 1959 bad decided to drop cordiensis will pr~sent a series activities. Weaver pointed out, in non- technical terms, that . the prob- lem M psychiatric disorders is growing rapidly. He predicted that ()ne person in ten will spend some period of his life in a sani- torium-, within ,the next ten years. Presently, one person in 20 can expect to suffer from a mental disorder serious enough to neces- sitate enrollment in a mental hos- pital. member and a Philoma.thean will encouraged to study Hebrew and .the_...)llotlon, and let the date of of articles dealing with the prob- speak O!J. each side of the ques- thE} history .. of Israel. :M:any tal- the Spring Prom remain as April Iem at other schools and descrlb- tion, followed by re>buttals. · The ents are developed from such a 24. ing how it has been solved. The faculty members participating this training program. Gerald Fincke,. Chairman -of the first article in this series will ap- year are Professors l)IIurphy and The main.purpose of the group, Social Calendar Committee, an- pear in next week's issue. Riedel, speaking for the Affirma.- however, is to infonm people abouj; nounced the ten~tive social calen- The three man committee was live and Negative, respectively. Israel. This is. not a mass propa.- :dar for next .year: Fll:ll Prom, No- :(ormed by President Stanford Follows Commons ganda organization, but merely v-ember 7; Winter Prom, Fe-bru- Wa.ite at the Tuesday, March 11, 'l'he .procedure :follows~ as close- satisfies curiosity about the State ary 28, Jazz Concert and Hol.!se :meeting of the HPC, acting on iy as possible, to that whi'<h is (Continued on Page 6) (Continued on Page 6) a request by Riesel.. employed by the Briti:sh House of Commons. There !!ore two op- posing r-ows of chairs, wherein when the members of the audi~ ence enter, those in favor oi ti).le Garnet Photogs Cop Many Prizes proposal sit on the right side, The judging of the first North-·\11•>-----~-----~---~-~------------ those opposed on the left. The eastern Intercollegiate Photo- members may change seats and graphic Coi1test, held at RPI re- cross over to the other side. if cently, found the Union CollegEl they change their opinions during Photographic Society ta]cs:lng most the course of the debate. Dis- of the top. honors. First prize cussions from the floor folloW!l · was awarded to Neil Joseph for the debate and a :final count is ·h · t 1 f St taken to determine whether or a picture of t e m er or 0 • Thomas' Church 'in New York not the motion is passed by the .City . .Neil, a melX!-ber of th~:~ Class House. of ~61, is pursuing a pre-medical Faculty Participated course and is a member of the In the past, su<lh distlngilished T t D lt Ch- F t 't Mark members. of the administration ' he a e a ~ ra erm Y· · · Krugman won 'second prize for and faculty such as :M:essrs. Da- an upusual photo captioned: vidson, Davis, Doty, Larrabee, Basketball: for · a, Head. Robert Morz, MUTIP'h:V, Niemeyer and Von . J.\[esard, a senior five-year engi\ Schlichten have participated. We neer, received sixth prize. K'l'ug- hope to see the 'instit\rtlon of par- man and i:Mesard were also given - liamentary debates become a per- Honorary Mentiqn for thejr other manent one here at Union Col- lege, · for they are novel, enter- entries. talning and, indeed, edifying af• .As a result of these awards, the fairs. Union College Photo Soeiety re- ceived the highest point score for the event and was presented a All stlld~ts who ~e present- cup engraved With the College's ly on the Conoordiensls staff, · . name and the year. This ·cup will · · or who desire to work for the be awarded to the winning col- Oonoordiensls in a~ eapa.clty . lege next yea.r when Union is a.:re advised to reJ.IIOli~ the • · host to the Contest. PubHcatiolis Q«lee MondQ' The NIPC i:ri<Jludes all of the eveniJlg, April24. bet\yeen s:so . New England States and New ruui 9:00 P.'M. York State north of New York City, C-ontestants In the first Northeastern I:ht-ercollegiate Plloto· graphic ({Gntest. Left to rig1ht, NeU Joseph, J. Elbert Meyer, Walter J, Mathias (Fraculty Advisor) a.n.d :Mark Krug\ID&n. Dissatisfaction Cited Having dismissed later rewards as the :primary reason why stu- dent participation has doubled in the last 30 or 35 years, Professor Graves then explored the possi- bility of increased student dis- satisfaction with college. Three conclusions are :f-orthcoming. First, student dissatisfaction has N~tes Mental Strain increased as participation in ac- The \thought processes affect tivities has increased. Secondly. the functioning of the body pro- these graduated students who cesses,\ Weaver POinted out. He were dissatisfied say that if they stated that physical disorders C!!-11 were to do it over again they result from the effect of mental would do much the same thing. strain on the body through the Thirdly, djssatisfactlon Increased autonomic nervous system. He as grades decreased, even though outlined the basic psychological 40 per cent of \A\ students found problems hampering man. college not to their liking. Weaver concluded his taik by Have students, therefore, turn- recommending two new books, re• · ed to activities beca.use they are cently purchased by tl:le library. unhappy witl:l their cirricula. He mentioned PsyoopsYma.tic The results. of studies indicate Medicine by Drs. Weiss and Eng- that most students dislike their lish which applies Freudian the- cirric~la. Engineers feel their ory to medicine. education is too narrow, liberal The college physician also sug- arts students feel their education gested Condition Reflex Therapy is too general, and more and more by Dr. Salter which opposes the of these ~nhappy students are Freudian approach, attributing entering the· world o-f business. mental problems to stimulus-re- Yet it is· significant that leaders flex reactions. Salter suggests in. ·industry are urging people in. treatments which provide an in- college to join activities. teresting contrast to those pro- Thus, today's stude~t is attempt- posed l:>y Weiss and English. . ing to conform with the wishes Dr. Weaver will prese]:lt his of his prospective ~mployee and third Informative lecture next is partially driven to such activi- Wednesday, March 26, in the lee- . ties because he finds college an ture room of the Physics Build- unrewarding rocperience. He finds ing. The one-h()Ur taik will begin it that way because the educators ,a._t_7_..P..;'-.· M __ . ____ ............. ____ -. insist that the .cirricula of today be the same as that used in the past, i•rt is possible that those who make policy regarding what American higher education must 'be need to examine the evidEince,\ Professor Graves stated, Gr~nt-in-Aid checks may be cashed at the Business Office · . between the hours of .8:30 A.M. -12 Noon and from 1-4 P.iM. on Thursday, April 10 only. I ' 1·

2 Olnurnr Published Fridays during the school year by the Student Body of Union CollE!ge, Schenectady, N.Y. 1'\ational Advertising Rep- resentative: National Ad- vertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Repre- sentative, 420 Madison Ave., N. Y. C. ·~ Editorial Office\lwashburn Hall, Union College, Pub- lication Office, The Ga- zette Press, 334 State 8t. Entered in the Schenec- tady Post Office as Sec- ond Class Mail .:Vlatter, subscription 10c a copY ; $2 a. year· delivered any- where ill the United States. SENIOR BOARD :.\10nDECAI D. BRAUNSTEIN '59. FH. 4-0383 ........... Editor-in-Chiet lWBl!:HT J. KEl''l' '59 .. , .......... DI 6-6889 , •. , ...... Managing Editor MICHAEL J. EXZii:R '59 .......... ~'H 7-4713 ........ Business Manager STE: FA!'\ P. STEil'\ '59 .• , .•..•..•.• !!:X 3·0983 ...•...... Associate Editor JA~lES E. SWAN '59., ............. DI 6-6889 ....... Contt•tl>uting Editor I<EK::\ETH 0. HASSON '59 ........ FH 4-1855 .............. Copy Editor JUNIOR BOARD Lyun Ratner '60 ••..••....••..••• , ••.•••..•••..•• Acting Features Ed!tor Paul Wollman '60 ..................................... Research Edt tor Joel Kupersmith '60 . , .............................. Acting .Ne~vs ~git~:: Richard Sobol '58 .. , . , ...... , . , . , ...................... Acttviues . Pete-r Goldfine '59 . .. . . . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . .. . .. .. .. . Art ~~!lot· Marlt Krugman '60 ................................. Photography 1tor Peter Steinglass '60 , .................. , ............ Acting :>ports Editor Fraternity Control? The .struggle for fraternity autonomy seems to us a never ending one here at Union. Suggestions eman~ting from the administration are frequently greeted With a \what's their ulterior motive\ attitude on the part of the houses. We commend the fraternity for its desire to re- main independent but wish to call attention to some of the attitudes which must accompany the self-reliance if it is to succeed. As an independent organization the fraternity accepts the responsibility for the actions of its membership and for the running of its actual physical plant. In a house of thirty members there is perhaps $7,500 in room rent alone passing through the hands of the treasurer, not to mention dues, social taxes or board charges collected. In addition to the financial and social obligations the mem- bership undertakes, there is a larger responsibility to the school as an academic institution which must be met. These observations add up to the inescapable conclu- sion that if fraternities are to continu·e running themselves they must assume a sense of responsibility and act accord- ingly. When a house muddles its finances to an almost in- credible snarl of figures, many of them in the red, is it not asking the administration for the services of the efficient college bookkeepers? And when a few members of a gToup of independent young men act in a manner not befitting high school sophomores and remain ignorant of their in- discretions are they not asking for the guidance of the discipline committee and eventually of the Dean's Office 7 We trust that fratemity members will ask themselves these questions when they select their officers and when they plan their weekend activities. If not the Administra- tion may be forced to engage in active fraternity control. SPS Campus Cullings Be<:ause the administration feels that the freshman and up- perclass dormitories are not sel'V- Ing their proper social functions effectively, the Deans of Students and Freshmen. have revised the rules concerning women visitors In the dorms. The new rules, whlcll go into effect immediately, allow women visitors in the dorms on all weekends. The new regulations are not a.s lenient as those found at other eastern men's colleges. Dean Fos- ter stated that the administration sees the new rules a.s a proper extension of the use that the dorms were originally designed for and hopes that the students are mature enough to use the new privileges properly. Leaders Draft Rules The rules were discussed and drawn up by Deans Harrod and Foster, Mrs. Warren, and various student leaders. It must be noted, however, that violations of the rules or misconduct on the part of the students will result in im- mediate suspension or dismissal. Lounge privileges are the only points in which the regulations differ. Since the upperclass dorms have no lounge facilities, women guests will have to leave them at 7:30P.M. Upperclass and freshman rooms are open to guests: Friday-5:30 P.'M. - 7:30 P.!M. Saturday-12 noon - 3 P. M. 5:30 P.M. - 7:30 P.M. Sunday-12 noon - 3 P.M. New Ft·eshman do rmi tory lounges are open to guests: Friday and Satutday-12 noon- 12 midnight. Sunday-12 noon - 3 P.M. All room guests must be signed in with the proctor in charge of the dormitory. -Rensselaer Polytechnic The Musical Box By Paul Freundlich In a recent article which ap- peat·ed In the Idol, I spoke of Jazz as .the chamber music of the fu- ture. \Where else is successful chamber music ·being written?\ we asked. One answer came last Friday night at Bennington Col- lege. At that time the Benning- ton College Chamber Quartet pre- sented among more traditional works an original piece: a flute quartet by a young composer, Cos- mos Sarchiapone. Sarchiapone shows a rare feel for the instrumenta for which he was writing. Rare that is. con- sidering the tr~nd of modern mu- sic. In place of a ·highly unified sound, each player was allowed to develop the theme utilizing the special attributes of her instru- ment. The harmonies that re- sulted produced a totality that \Vas meaningful and rewarding. It was not surprising that his quartet most resembled the open- ing i)iece of the program, a trio sonata. by Vita:ll. This Is not to say that Sarchiapone was merely repetitive. If the music of the Baroque period shows a strong influence upon his work, it is be- cause the theories of musical composition that were valid then remain so today. That influences of Bartok and Copland were pres- ent, in fact added to his music. Besides drawing on our rich classical heritage, Cosmos Sarch- iapone showed a refreshing orig- inality that bodes well for both his future and the future of cham- bLr music. Erroll Garner's concert Saturday night is sure to be a • financial success. Most of the credit goes to the chairman of the concert committee, Larry Kahn, vice- president of the Modern Jazz Soc- iE>ty. Just a reminder that this is a serious affair. Serious in the sense that the enjoyment derived should be from the music. There may be a time and a place for pa.:per airplanes (though I have my doubts), but this not be one of them. Also anyone overly in- ebriated should make a sincere effort to pass out quietly. A scene of the opening night production of the illmmteba.nks' presentation of \Oedipus.\ b.~ Sophooles. The Union Shop: Pro Ry Sirneo J. Gallo This year's intercollegiat-e debate topic is RESOLVED: That membership in a. labor organi=tion as a condition of employment should be Ulegal. Here Simeo iJ. Gallo arg'ues for the :Negative. The sole re_quirement placed on the employee under the union- shop is that he pay dues to ;the union. The union cannot require the, employer to suspend the worker for any other reason than his refusal to do. this. The wo rlrer may oppose the union and if 30 per cent of the employers are dis- pleased with the union-shop they may petition the National ·Labor Relations Board to conduct an election to determine whether the union-shop should be continued. Few Workers Show Concern Originally the Taft-Hartley A.ct required such an election before the union-shop could be recog- nized. However in 119 such elec- tions conducted by the NLR.B from 1947 to 1951, 97.1 per cent were resolved in favor of the union-shop. Moreover, n.B per cent of the employees eligible to vote, not of those who voted only, favored the union-shop. In light of these facts, the late Senator Taft introduced an amend- ment which made such electrons prior to recognizing the uni-on..;shop unnecessary. Such an election is still required whenever 30 per cent of the employees in a plant re- quest it. These figures seem· to indicate that few workers are con- cerned that their rights are being impaired. Undoubtedly, the rights of min- orities should be protected., but to what degree is their freedom <Jf association or freedom of contract impaired? No employee is forced to t!l.ke an oath or to affirm Union tenets. He must only pay dues. It is easy to clamor that an indi- vidual's moral or religious con- victions are being impaired. Yet, affirmative teams fail to show what moral or religious views make it impossible for an ·em- ployee to join a union. Their sole contention is that part of these dues may be spent to support political parties with which tlle individual rr:ay not sympathize. Their proposal to require such individuals to pay only a basic as- sessment to cover the cost of maintaining collective bargaining can be incorporated within tlle union-shop. The supposed merit of this plan is that no one would be forced to support a political party he disliked. One should con- sider, however, that it might be difficult to determine to what de- gree such political activities do not contribute to making- collec- tive bargaining successful. More important, this prqposal would not guarantee freedom of contract any more so than the union-shop. Every employee woUld be required to pay the l>asic as- sessment. To this degree :he would still be connected with and would be ipso facto a member of the union. The relationship be- tween the employee and the union would be the same as under the · union-shop. Federal law requires an.y union recognized by the employer to represent all workers in .the plant. It is for this reason t'hat it is equitible to expect all workers to support the union financially. Federal law also • .permits the union-shop because it ·is benefi- cial. It promotes union security, makes union officials more re- sponsible and lessens strife. The role unions play is accepted, to- day, as a necessary part of Ol.lr economic system. The union-shop helps to protect unions from em- ployers who would destroy them. This security also means that union officials need n..ot press petty grievances of employees in order to maintain their loyalty. It erodicates the strife which ex- ists when union and non-union employees must work side by side. It also eliminates the temptation on employees to discrin:Jlnate ift favor of non-union members. The union-shop promotes bene- fits whicb. accrue only when it exists. The conditioned require- ment of membership unde1· tll.e union-shop does not violate any basic individual right. '!'he pro- posal of the affirmative to distin- guish between the costs of collec- tive bargaining and union poli- tical activity and to support the latter voluntarily can l>e accom- plished within the framework of the union-shop. If consideration of this· topic is to be more than acad!IIllic, how- ever, one should consider the arguments of the actual oppon- ents of union-shops in tbe United States rather than that of college debaters. .Among the most vodi· ferous of this group are the Na- tional Association of Manufac- turers and Senator Barry Gold- water of .Arizona. One of their basic arguments is that they are against corruption. They fa.il to show how the union\sh<Jp is re- sponsible for corruption. They also overlook the fact tba.t Presi- dent Eisenhower has proposed an eight point program to i:'id unions of corruption which does not in- clude the abolition of tl!e union~ shop. Advocate \Right-to-Work\ Usually these groups do not like to be referred to as ·opposing the union shop. They ]lrefer to say that they advocate the right- to-work. This makes it possible for them to speak platitudes about inalienable rights, freedom, liberty and minority rights. They fail to recognize that not all rights are absolute. :Moreover, they claim rights whicn no man has ever had or, at least, which have been conditioned from the beginning of time by custom, law and conflict with more basic rights. This type of attack is not new. The same groups in our country waged a siinilar campaign in the 1920!s, Even then tb.eir a.1guments were based on the right to work. Clarence Darrow answered them, then, when he said, \The right-to- work is a blt of bird-lime to catch the unthinking masseS,: }.,or Your Information_ Friday, March 21. Film Classics, 7 and 9 P.M. EE-22, \Moana\ (U.S. 1926) and \!Muscle Beach\ CU. 8. 1950), one pt. cr.; \:Mounte- banks Production, Theater, 8:.:30 P.M., ''Oedipus Rex\ of Sopho- cles. Call FR 7-8011. Saturday, March 22. J~ CON- CERT, CLASS OF 1959, MC, 8 P.M. E1~roll Garner, ticltets $2.00, Call EX3-7778; Mounte- banks Production, Theater, 8:~0 P.M. \Oedipus· Rex\ of Sco- phocles: Sunday, March 28. Vespers, M:C, 7:30 P.M., speaker, The Rev. Colin Miller, Chaplain of Ham- ilton College; Ne~>man Club Re- gional Conference, 3 P.M., Old hapel and Student Lounge, din- ner in Hale House, 6 P.M:.; Mountebanks Production, Thea- ter, 8:30 P.M., \Oedipus Rex\ of Sophocles. Mon(Jay, March 24. Community Welfare Council and Dept. of Sociology of Union College, Student Lounge, 2 until 4:30 P.M., \Accent on Children;\ In- tel'Varsity Christian Fellowship, Student Lounge, 7 P.M.; Moun- tebanks Production \Oedipus Rex\ of Sophocles, Theater, 8:30 P.M. Tuesda-y, March 25, MAKE-UP TESTS; Daily Assembly, \Ques- tions and Answers\ Period con- ducteu by President Davidson, MC, Noon; House Presidents Council, Student Lounge, 7:15 P.M.; Episcopal Fellowship, Silliman Hall, 7:30 P.M.; Out- ing Club, Silliman Hall, Main Lounge, 7:30P.M.; Mounte·banks Production, ''Oedipus Rex\ of Sophocles, Theater, 8:30 P.M. Friday~ MQrch 21, 1958 \Oedipus\: A Review By Carl A. Niemeyer The function of tragedy, said .Aristotle (and he wli:s thinking of Sopb.ocles' \Oedipus\ w~en he said it), is to ,purge by pity and ter- ror. So it should he easy to judge the success of a performance of \OediPUE!\i do you lea.ve it cleans- ed ·inside? Of course, no one does; this is the sixth decade of the twentieth century; we have seen everything, <lo~e everything, and felt everything, It takes ;mo~e than Greek, tragedy to move us from our complacency and self- satisfaction. We need a Sopho- cles all right; only we would have to be a super-Sophocles.· Pla.y ·Comes to Life he was not trying to sell hair tonic. It was no M<:lident either that the big moments came when eith- er Albert Katz or Helen Slayton was ·on the stage. In both the majesty that should troop. with king.s and queens was missin:g. This was ·regrettable, because· the great point of the play is the con• trast. between the proud and su- pelib king of the beginning of the play and the pitiable wretch at the .end. The same contrast should be vis~ble in J oca:.sta, first scorning the oracles, then mad- dened by their terrible truth. But if Mr .. Katz and Miss SlaY,ton di<l not 'bring out sharply the great In a way ·every card is stacked tragic irony that underlies the against a successful production play, they read their lines with of \Oedipus;\ We have forgotten vigor and conviction. If they did the legend, .·and it has to be ex-. not exactly bring royalty to the plained in a program note: We stage, they held the attention of no longer know· how the Greeks their audience. mounted their plays; 130 we have to give them our own kind of production. We have forgotten our Greek, and we have to hear the play in English. And of course the astonishing thing is that so much ~omes through, as it .did in Thursday night's pre- sentation by the Mounteban·ks. Jocasta':s horror when she dis- covers the secret, OedLpus' fling- ing to the ground the Old Shep- herd from whom the truth has been brutally wrung, the sudden appearance at the end· of the bleeding and blinded King-in these moments· the play caine to ~ife and spoke to us across twenty- five centuries. :rt is no accident that it came to iife exactly when it was most sensational,. and no one ne'ed be surprised that Sopho- cles can be as !;lair-raising as a TV thrille1·. After an he bui1t his play to last a long time, and Choir Records Music Interesting details of the pro- duction were the. music, written apparently by Brian Fennelly and recorded by Professor Curtis and the choir; the costumes, fresh and clean if not :royally sumptuous; and ·the set, which was maybe a little too massive. Still, \Oedipus\ is a massive play. As always, Professor Wingate's clear handling of stag.e groups was commendable. H some of the religious character of the play is unavoidably lost in a moder.n rp•ro- ducti'on, a good modern director shows that Sophpcles has some- thing to project on a realistic stage. Maybe we don't go away feeling pity and terror, but we ought at least to feel respect. And we do, for both the Mountebanks and Sophocles. Letter to the Editor To the Editor of Concordiensis: Recently, while on an excursion to an ·electrical supply store from which I wanted to purchase a fe- male socket, I noted that BX ca- ble (electrical wire) was selling at 11 cents per foot. Light bulbs are also relatively inexpensive (on sale -a.t Sears :(.or 57 cents each for 200 watts). Fixtures, if chrome or gold plate are not de- manded, run several dollars each. ·Last week I we:n.t to my optome- trist to have my eyes examined. I have had occasional headaches lately. He said that my eyes were strained and gave me a new pre- scription. He suggested that I buy a new desk lamp. The bill (examination, advice and glasses) came to $28.00. Yesterday. I went to the library, where I usually study, climbed the iron stairs, of.f to the left as you enter, and found a cubicle to study in, There was no deslt lamp (only two student desks in the entire library have lamps). Illumination was provided bY two inadequately lit globes high above my head. I sat down, put on my new glasses and began to read. The words were partly camou- flaged by my shadow. -Union College fs sup_posedly go- ing to build a new 11brary, but not befoi:'e several years of ~ye­ straining have passed. Lipraries are replacable-but not eyrs. can we afford not to have better lights? Sincerely yours, Ronald Weinstein '60 CAN'T MAKE J, ' UP YOUR MIND? Eat Your Sunday Meals at ANGELO'S The .house of good food I 135 Barrett St. PROCTOR'S Yul Brynner . Marla Schall - Claire Bloom \THE BROTHERS KARAMAZOV'\ PLAZA Free Parking 016-9261 RELIABLE RADIO SER:VICE · 736 State St. EX 3·8668 . • \BONJOUR TRISTESSE\ Safes & Service On. All Mcrlc'es of - 2 HITS- \THE HARD MAN\- .. STATE '\AND GOD CREATED WOMAN\ \CITY OF GOLD\ RA D'l OS • Cl®ks - Portable - Car Hi•Fi Sets Tape Recorders (Next to Mohawk Chevrolet) Friday, Cam B::~ Specla ~ sltg'ht officer \ of the. st law. Tl under l:i pleted, from m even to ders, he meanin~ seldom At 43, ber of i of worl tenance thoroug investig pointm~ Bill~s hours, of chec see tha quiet, d a phys proachi functio: terfere1 More danger• ing il ground accordi more c the m• a.nd ;pe it. Th<lt: he sle' occupi• eleven time g• Mrs. J dilecW for a Clar as the usuall: this sortinl gineer that t to kn{ taken \your good, I like be ri goat i AftE tentio with \Bill'• articu swere half-h His was f State he ca secul\' serts here, opera the b to de: ing j He t who rparki area. He tryin, sultii ural vocai Terr1 Unio; are- quen Qr ~ 01' 1 com I Lint< expe• c Wl tun it whe1 Strol walk out 1 ized, of tJ Wl be f near ter 1 coke some rhil~ two chilo the Fr Gem men: clocl the the· seve lege and cone mas tine. ·01 Geo: SOUl cite1 ble of i of 1 getl: rem

,_ Friday, March 21, 1958 Campus Cops :Men in Blue Give Union CoUege Round the Clock Police Vigilance. By Melvin S. Einhorn Special Police badge 303 cvowns ~ sltg'ht bulge in the overcoat of officer William 3. Paszeski, one of the. stea<ly triumvirs of campus law. The ten red traffic tickets under his shield a:re seldom de- pleted, for Bill's :Pa.tr,ol extends from midnight to B A.M. But · even to the few nocturnal offen- der,s, he g.enerally imp!lirts a polite, meaningful warning which ·iS seldom disregarded, At 43, he is the youngest :mem- ber of the force. Mter six years . of working on the college main-! tenance orew, he underwent the . · thorough screening, testing : investigation pertaining to his ap~ pointment in 1955. Bill~s \beat through the wee . hours, is a silent, lonely routine · of check and recheck. He must . see that all the lbuildings al'e quiet, darkened anli secured; that a physical plant in value ap• proaching seven million dollars is. functioning, or resting without in- terference. · More. a:nd m,ore infrequently dangerous or )larmful pranks ing inflicted on the college grounds but when crime hits (and according to :;tatistics, it does so more often in the dark hours of the morning), it takes an alert and {perceptive man to cope with it. Campus policemen, William J. Pa.s~l<:l (L~ft) and George Overoeker .(right). The third memb~r of l;lie force, Clarence Wellette ·decline11 to pose. N at'l Student Association's. · Duties at Union Explained Th<>ugh his job necessitates that be sleep by day, Bill, when not occupied by his d(!.ughters, ages eleven and five, spends his leisure In recent years Union :College 'hss b€come affiliated time golfing, bowling, and skating. with the National Student Associati()n. What the work of Mrs. Paszeski and an avid pre- dilection for reading also account NSA is, however is still hazy to many- ·students. for a large part of his free,time. NSA is an association of over·@•>--------------- Inher~nt Distrust 350 colleges and universities, rep- cationa.l Affairs Commission, one Clarence Wellette. known to all resenting 1,000,000 students, which of the four such commissions as the day Bill, is a..!ltgnified and have conjoined with. the intention into \l'llich N'SA is divided. It usually calm man. Howeve•r, when of exchanging ideas and· to ex- was set up to act as a liaison be- this reporter approached him pressing the desires and the in- tween the stadents and the New sorting traffic near the Civil En\ tentions of students as an ii;teg- York State Legislature, and to gineering ·building, and related ral part of society and having act as a. .corxununication center that tbe student ·body would like specific needs as students. The to know more about him, he was association is arranged into re- for pr1>-viding information regard- ing ehmation legislation to the taken aghast. He declared that, gional groups, Union being in the rest <>f the state. It is also valu- \your six 'Poage issues are very New York State Region. good, very clever. I read them. One of the major benefits of able as a Jlressure group which expresses- student views on cur- l like them. But I don't want to membership in NSA is the Stu- be ridiculed, a party week-end dent Government Information rent Edllcati{)n legislation to goat in print.\ Service which Union makes ex:- mem-1JeJ:s of the legislature and After assuring him tnat our in- tensive use of. The nature of aids In dispelling opposition to bills of stu.dent interest \and ad\' tentions were strictly concerned SGIS is that of a lending library. with writing a \straight\ story, It provides a central place from vantag-e, \Bill .. gla-dly cqmplied and in an which student governments can Last year the subcommission articulate, complete fashion, an- obtain assistance on the specific co:ri.cErne«:l jtself with two partie- · swered our questions for the next problems of their individual ular Items of legislation. The ex- half-hour. schools. Material used in answer- . tension of tb.e state scholarship His proclivity ror police wo:rk ing requests bas been collected prog:ra.;m was whole-heartedly was first fulfilled as a New Yo:rk from c·ol!eges, universitieS, and suppor-ted, via the LAS, by NYS State Trooper. Thi:rteen years ago orga.iJ.izations throughout the NSA, as was· the establishment of he came to .Union :from a post .as country. ~ the 11ew Yor-k Eigher Education security guard at G.E. He as- Assistance .Corp_ which laterr was serts that since his instatement Summer Congress created ior t:he vurpose of mak- here, he has received \fine co- Periodic conventions, culmina- ing loans t<J residents of the state operation and :respect from all ting in a summer National Con- who pla.n< to attend colleges in the boys.\ In retlll'n he has tried. gress, are held for the purpose of this state or elsewhere, thus as- to deal with them impartially, dol- discussing the student's role, sisti:ng- them. in meeting their . ing justice out when expedient. problems in student government, higher education expenses. Such He usually tags the •individuals and projects whiah NSA can un- loans ·will be limited to $1,000 for who try. to \snea.k one by,\ by dertake on indi'vidtral campuses. any s<Jh(}O] yea.r and a total of ~arking or standing in a reserved Some of the items which have $5,000 for each student. The par- area. evolved from NSA's interest in ticulnrs inv<>lved in obtaining. He spend!! a good deal of time student needs are the Student such a loan can be obtained by trying to prevent the scuffles, 'l'e- Discount Service and Leader~hip writin:g to the Department of suiting from the seeming \nat- Training Programs. Both <>f Edacation in Albany. ural antagonism a.nd mutual pro- these projects have been .adopted vocation,\ occurring ·between Nott by Union in its drive toward Terrace High School students and progressive and more effective Union dormitory residents. These government. . are- usually minimal and infre- of NSA's affiliations is quent, caused by stray rremarks Travel, Inc., whiGh Qr :missiles, delivered by either provides low-cost tours to stu- or 'both sides. When Terrace dents traveling to Europe, Mex- complete.s their m.ove to the new ico, Bermuda, and other foreign Linton facilities, this situation, he places. The advantages of such expects, will disappear. a non-profit student oriented pro- Complexities CompoiUlded ject are obvious. Also available Winter pl'esents many oppor- is literature providing informa- tunities for vandalism, especially tion of interest to those travelers when .S:now is on the ground. not wishing to travel in tours. Strollers along the Terrace-wall The possibility of setting up a · walk are apt to occasionally iJOP division of ETI for the assist- out a street lamp, but any organ- ance of Union students is pres- ized, itinerant gangs steer clear ently peing looked into. of the man -in b-lue. Union is unique in the New When off~duty, Bill can often York State Region in that it is be found \just fishing\ at some the seat of the New York State nearby lake. He is a present Mas- NSA Legislative Activities Sub- ter Mason of a lodge in Schaghti- commission. coke, and as such, co-ordinates Unique Position some very fine charitable and rhilanthropic endeavors. He :has two married sons and two grand- children. Mrs. Wellette works in the Baoltstore. The subcommission was es- tablished last year under the general direction of the Edu- \But it can be curtailed.'; He went on to tell of the boys who 'l'b.e 1:Tnic>n .College Newman .Ch.ib- is playing host to the Al- ba..ny Beg!O'na.l Newman Clubs :Meeting, Sunday, March 23, at 3 1'.1.L in Bale itouse. Repres·entatives from s~ven· teen area <!labs are expected. The meetings and grg.up dis- CI.lssions w~ll ·be concluded by a hanqnet. Uni<m Newman CI11ber-s al'e invited to attend. \J'nioll'~> · Leader in Cl&anii1C3 3 Shirt Laundering BALL'S INC. 224 Not+ Terrace 016-3456 Spec!aJ 1 Elr. Cleaning Service '4 Er. Service on Sllirta From twilight to midnig~t, George Overacker, the semor member of Union's around-the- clock protectors, ·is pounding the two years until he reaches the compulsory retirement age of seventy. He has served the col- lege in many maintenance jobs and as a cop, for 22 years. He concurs with the opinion that most police workt'is strictly rou- are exposed to drink for .the.. first time, and try .to \kill\ homesick- 1 -------·------------,· ness with it. He feels that the 1 drinking-age should 'be advanced I For All your Paint •,' tine. Over that chronological range, George has made a number of sound, insighted observations. He cites as \the main cause of trou- ble at any college,\ the imbi·blng of intoxicants. «The uselessness of trying to stop drinking alto- gether, is ®p-parent,\ he noted, reminiscing about prohibition. to 21, as in many other states. ·t - \Drinking ten<lil to enlarge pranks and Hardware Needs I into incidents. I don't have to 1 bring up the 11:!-St Fall Week-end I S U as an example, do !?\ This re- : ee s I porter thought the subject needed 1 1 changing. . . : c.AfiTOL PAINT & I The former \dough-boy\ of the 1 Philippine carnpaign lit one of his •. H~RIJWARE CO. 1 favorite cigars, sighed, looked fif- 1 teen yea.rs younger than he is, t 7\'~ STATE ST . l ... .,, . . • and talked contentedly about hiS wife and son, who is studying to t Phone FR 4-4123 be a te:;~.ch~~. on a scholarship l to Union's Evening, Division. . ... -·--·--------------· Spring Introductory Sale Th~ee Days ·On:ly ~ Monday thru Wed,nesday , March 24ff1 fbr·u 26th Union College Students and Faculty An opportunity 'to have first selections of our ·new spring stock at reduced prices! 10% off ON ENTIRE NEW SPRING STOCK to mention_ a few items Dacron and Wool Suits Dacron and Cotton Suits Dacron and Wool Slacks ~ Light Weight Flannel Slacks Sport Jackets • .Blazers Raincoats Button Down Dress Shirts Button ~own Sport Shirts Four Button Sweaters Ties: Silk Peppi Foulard Silk Wool Chalk Belts: Foulard Print - and entire stock - ... 3 :Pall's en'sSkop 1599 UPPER UNION ST. -------------~--------· ·Gazette Press • 332 State St. ~_.. ... ~ ..... .; .... • * .... ., ....... L. G. BALF01JR CO. Fraternity Jewelers. BADGES • m:NGS -FAVORS IJEWELR.Y LEA.'l':IIE& GJFl'S STATIONERY - P:ROGRAMS OLUB FINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHI:Jls Write or Co.ll CARL SORENSEN LU MamhaU St., Syracwie, N.Y. PbODAl Graulte ~7831

4 Frtday, Mar~h 21.r 1.958 'The Fugitives' Tells About Screen Version of Professor Riedel Addresses Colloquium S·outhern Literary Group Russian Classic OR Usage of \Unconditional Surrender\ n~· FRANcEs s. suiTH Very Worthwhile FERRO'S RESTAURANT Specializing in Italian-American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar ~JZZA Free P~rking 016-9554 1115 Barrett St. Yul BrynneT and Maria Schell, rwted European star making her Hollywood debut, enact the lovers in M-G-M's filmi:l;ation of Dostoyevsky' ~ great nove~ ••The Brothers Karama~oo. •• In spite of all these criticisms, The Brothers Karamazov suc- ceed~ in suspending the disbelief vf the vie,\ er. For the moment at least, he is caught in the drama of the tale. It is only a pity that its full power and meaning· are· sacrificed to more commercial lures. It is a good movie, if not a great one. For an enjoyable eve- ning, The Brothers l{ai'amazov is rPcommended. You'U Save When You MARRY ME Jes . • . and I'll buy the Wedding .Ring. at Maurice B. Graubart & Sons, Jewelers, .166 Jay St. We can rely on their 3 generation reputation. Bernie Save on .Phil's own Brcinds Sherwood then states that FDR backed up Churchill's view by saying tl:J.at, \We .had so much ·j trouble getting· those two French Generals together that I thought· to myself that this was as diffi- cult as arranging the meeting of Grant and Lee-and then sudden- ly the press conference was on, and Winston and I had no time to prepare ·for it, and the. thought popped Into my mind that they had called Grant 'Old Uncondi- PHIL ENGL,EBARDT'S L~iquor Store 511 Union Street 'EX 3-3110 r--------------~----------------------------------------------~---1 I I I I : A Campus-to-Career Case History 1 I I I I I I I I Stan Smith (left) discusses characteristics and color coding of polyetliylene insulated cabie with A. A. Little, Nebraska Area Transmission En(5ineer. \Growth makes opportunities the telephone company'' in In October, 195 7, only four years after graduation, Stanley W. Smith was ap· pointed District Plant Engineer in North· western Bell Telephone Company. Here Stan tells what his responsibilities are and how his promotion came about. planned construction so that money can be budgeted for it. \This is the kind of job I really like- one which combines · engineering ·and management. And it was the continuing growth of .the business,\ Stan points out, \I'm responsible for outside plant en· \that opened up this new assignment for I I I lv, I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I. I I I I I I I I I I I •I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I t I I I I l , gineering in a district which includes me. My predecessor was appointe<l to a, l about one-third of all Bell telephones in newly created position a1:1d I was selected 1 l Nebraska outside of Omaha,\ Stan says. to replace him,. l l ••That's about 35,000 phones, and the •'What the future holds for me depends l : number is growing every day. on a lot of things. But I cah see £rem my i : \The most important part of my job is present job .that growth will keep open· l : to plan for growth and have facilities ing opportunities for myself and other l r xeady when needed. This means planning engineers like me. I'm more convinced r i for pole lines, aerial and underground than ever that the telephone company is i l ~able, and conduit lines to the central the place to get ahead in ah interesting l l office. I also make cost estimates for all and challenging career,\ I i I I I I '5tan Smith graduated from the University of Nebraska in ,..., I I I 1 1953 with a B.S. in E.E~ degree. He is one of many young I I <I 1 men who are finding rewarding careers in the Bell Telephone 1· : Companies. Find out about opportunities for you. Talk with E'SE:LL. I I the Bell interviewer when he visits yolii' campus, and read TELE:PHON• I. : the Bell Telephone booklet on ille in your Placement Office. COMPANIIE$ : I I L------•----------------------------•~--~----~---------~~--~--~-~w~ l 1 C4 o: 01 fi ie aJ SE v: U: n: 1'1 p

58 to the ally ally· dE?- pon. the the so erm· not I I I lv, I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I. I I I I I I I I I I I \I I I I I I I I' I' I I I I I I I I I I I I t I I I I l I 'I I I I I I I I I I L ·I I I I I I I I 'I 'I I I I I I I I I I I I I •I I' I I I '\ I I I .J ~ Friday, Marcia 21. 1.958 5 Dutchman Baseball Sq1uul Psiu First In . . .·Junior Matmen Bruce, Holland Hopes For Wl ·n·. ·n:ng s· ~~~Qo\H Intramural Swim p d. w· ~ . M t R d . \ . . . . . II • . ~Utl IIJ, sceFnoeot,le\·~M:t eTumoersdiJ!llayPaonodl wWasedntehs~.· re , tct . r.nntng j : a . . eco r . Hopes- are high that the Garnet baseball team will • = - continue its winning streak of last year and re-main one day,. <if the annual intra-mural By Carl Schwan. Of the ·-llew\ U· n-t'on teams on the black -sl·de of .. ·the .I·e..:l.·ger., .swimming meet. This year's event. h t x u .was VIOn .by Psi Upsilon with It is rare that a- team in its land, we got the impression t a The advantage the Dutchmen.• Sigmi Chi second and Alpha Delta . first year of collegiate competi• the team was hurt mostly ·by in- have over other\ teams ·in being th li hi · Phi third. tion 'is recognized on a national experience and that they were .a -ble· to· ·pra· \ctice in the. fl\eldhouse' e neup t . s year will he Don ' I\ t 1 k\ f d t \ t ' T scale. Union s wrest mg earn ac- oo mg orwar o nex yeal;' s may .prove to ·be one of .t·heir big- hompson who. will i>e· ready to . The events, ·officiated over by' 1 . h d th\ f t h t .b . . '\t d' ne for h . com-p 1s e IS ea w en wo I em&\ .an ou..., an 1ng. o gest as . sets. Wi\\h ~now and .m·u\d resume · 1s regular .duties as re- Jerrr Wal'dman, were divided c· h \ B · d M t U i H II\ d ·'d th t\ 1 t f -~ ~ · h · members, uck ruce an on e n on. o an sat a a o o St.l . 11 _ coveri·ng many opponent dl'a- serve p1tc er. evenly over the two days. On h •I d\d , 1 • th\ Th · Holland, were invited to t e ...- .guys 1 n t 1ave exper1ence IS monds this could prove to be a e infield will feature Ed Tuesday, the 50 yard freestyle, 50 . Invitational Wrestling Champion· year but wi'il be back nex.t year. d ecisive factor in e\ arly season .. Janu!ionis at shortstop and yard ·backstroke, 75 yard individ-· h' h ld t Cl 1 d 1 t k I AI f h . com\ g M t N hb h will h'f 1 dl d th 200 d f s 1ps e a eve an _as wee . so some res men are 1n Contests' . ar y ac ar. w o s I· t! ua. me ey, an . e yar ree- B d f d · d 1 t 1 Cl Cr p t AddJ.S' f th . d t d t I ff \\\ ruce·, un e eate · m ua mee s 1 a ong. · em owe,. · e e · on, The nets In 'the ·fl'eldhouse ·limt't. ·rom · 1r o .secon - base. Dick s y e relay ·were run o . ...,.e f t d d Wh·t t ta d\ S · as a Union wrestler, was de ea e an Paul 1 e are ou s n mg Outfl .eld .pr\~t 1 ·ce but ·the in·ft'el'de.rs teinbrenner who ·played right following day the meet was com· b J 8. , C f h 1 ~ f\ ld 1 1 d · b t in the first round y ack mnot men. · rowe, a res man, s fl .nd ge~tl·ng into ·s\\pe much eas- 1e ast year will move in to .P e'te with the 50 yard · reas - E P , St t T h tl h t t h i · \ •= 1 f t k 1 d h of dinboro ( a., a e eac er!j, I prese~ · y t e ·s a e c amp on m ier W . 1 ·th the adv· an\ced practice pay irst base this seasan, and :s·ro e,.10() yard freesty e, an t e' -0 H h d 1 3 d 1 D . k s \ 150 d th dl 1 · College by a 2 score. · e a the · 2 poun c ass. and coaching. The need to sWit[Jh IC ayers, reserve 3nfielder in · yar ree-man me ey re ay. several player's positions due to· '57, takes· over .as t\he regular Psi 1:J\. led the pack by .copping vacancies ieft by those who· .grad-: third baseman. five ·first pla-ces in the seven uated' ,last yea!.\ has been :made: John Williamson, an outffelder: events held. Sigma Chi captured much easier .as Coach Art Law-· last year will move •In behind the: the remaining two .primary posi- rence see~ the .a.spirents in actual plate as catcher to fill the gap, :tions. For Psi U., John Rfchruds play. · left by Frank War\d ~ho gradu- ·placed first in the 50 and 100 yard Squw ·Cut to 15 ated last year. Walt Bray wiJ.l. freestyle events, while John In- In .a surprise move this week, back up Williamson, ·in ·the receiv-' ga.mells took the 50 yard ~ac~ Lawrence cut the team to 15, the ing spot. Ash Mitchell will be in stroke .. A team of Bob V1ets,. number he wiU carry for the rest; the centerfield position w.ith Tom J()hn Ingamells and Jay 'Vanneck of the season. This may very Lally and sophom~~e Richie took the· 150 yard medley r~Jay well be an indication of what he· Kranzman flanking ·hiD!. . , and the ·same combo plus. Rlch- expectd from the team in game . Sophomore· Bene)! Stren.gj;h aNis won· the 200 yard relay. ccmpet;tion. Coach Art Law-· The bench. shength l-Ies .in soph-. The 50. ya.rd breaststroke and renee's quiet method of coachin;? omores-Sid Brodsky, an infield- 75 yard mdrvldu~l med.ley w~re thP. Garr.et is surprising to many, er, Bob Blanchard ,and· Tom wof h~Y Sig Chis David Wam- .but it brings results. There ar,~ Schaad both outfieldel:'s. WF g · _ no loud outbursts but a careful Coach Art Lawrence in discus- Stand1ngs: ·scrutiny of each player's b~st· sing the team'.s possibilities said;; Psi :IJ:psilon ............... 31 points and hi,s attempt to play \We'll be much· faster this year,· Slg:rna Chi ............. , .. 28 them for all they are worth. but we may Jack som·e of the· Alpha. Oelta Phi 20 Eleven men~ber,s of the squad hitting power we had then-'' . ' ' · · · · ' · · · are holdovers from last year's The opening contest a.t Cornell Ph1 Gamma Delta. · · · · · · · · · 7 tea:m which posted a 13-3 season, on April 12, will initiate a 15 Phi Delta Theta .......... 6 one of the best in Union's his- game slate that will include seven Delta Upsilon . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 tory. home games. AU the traditional lndepeudents .............. 4 P!tc'hiug chores will fall on· foes of the DUtchmen are listed: John Fauth, whose 8-1 record led on the ·schedule. The firijt home Tlteta. Delta Chi · · · · · · · · · · .3 the team to its great year, and game is against the University of: :Bebl Theta Pi . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Don Root, 3-1 last year. Back in Rochester on .April 19- · All other entries failed to score. Garnet Lacrosse:,Skill and Spirit Monte Holland is seen in a typical position during- the regu~ Iation wrestling season against an Albany State opponent. Both he and Chuck Bruce are nm.jor figures in the future grappling picture at Union. By Gary -Gross crosse players can be slL!nmed up the entire team. At practice so The sound <Jf ·ball meeting leath- in his statement, \thE first year far the stick.men have shown an er can be heard once again in the teach a man the 'basic skills overly large amount of the .intan- fieldhouse as i:he Garnet stick- of catching and passing, the sec·\ gible called scrap. In a -game as men warm upo for the 1958 Ia- and year you polish him up, and fast moving and gruelling as la- crosse season. The roster to date the third year he's an All-Ameri- crosse, the possession of an a-g- consists Qf 39 men, nJ.ne of them can,\ has been working the stick- gvessl\'e spirit can be a decisive returning lettermen. men hard on the first part of his factor. The Garnet has it. Lacrosse, an ':'old sport at Union three year time table. Spil•ft has not been any prob- (it was star-ted here in. 1923) is Prac1ice alasle !em for .Allison, nor has getting a little known ·game. Much has Practice sessions have been men with experience, for there been done to popularize the sport, largely a matter of getting the are .nine returning lettermen this · ~ut despite the fact that the Gar- men in shap·e and of teaching year_ Generally, getting men of net were champions in their .class them the basi-c skills of handling experience is a difficulty, for la.- as recently as four years ago, the crosse, interspers~d with one crosse Is a sport rarely played here at Union it is not a particu- in 1he public schools of the north. larly •highly patronized game. Allison .Js plagued to some extent Lacrosse, says coach Bruce AI- by this lack of !I>\revious practice lisen, consists of a \mixture-.of whe11 it comes to reserves. basketball and hockey played on Ten1ative Lineup a field similar to a soccer field.\ Right now, although his plans Actually, lacr()sse is probably an a.re highly subject to change, Al- older game than any of these lisen has begun to consider whom sports which it resembles, having ne will place in the starting line- been played by the Indians. up, It will probably ·include Art Today, the sport is super- ThuTber, Jerry Waite and Jerry vised nationally Qn the col- Little at attack; Bill Hasrt, ·Bill legiate level by the United Kenny and •Skeet Glass at mid- State Intercollegiate Lacrosse As- field.: Warren Bagatelle, John previously won ten meets this year in the 117 pound class. Hol- land, sporting a 9-1 record this year, including seven pins, was unable to compete in the 130 pound class because .of scholastic circumstances. Although the results of the tour- nament proved somewhat disap- pointing to the wrestlers and Union enthusiasts, the fact that members were 1nvited shows the general upswing of wrestling at Union. Last winter a team was formed on an informal basis as. a trial to determine if wrestling should become a recognized sport. The team, competing in exhibition matches, lost only one of six con- . tests, and that by a close decision to Springfield. This year the 'team was recognized, and wrest- led a ten match schedule, winning three and losing seven. Two matches were lost by the §lim margin of only two points. In talking with Bruce and Hol- sociatlon. 'College lacrosse teams .Shanley and John Yannes at de- are divided into three divisions, f~nse and Bob Wong at goalie. ' basically by ·geographicallocation, Otb.er possible members of the the Cy Miller, Laurie Cox, and starting lineup are Pete Reed, Ray Taylor Divisions. Union is Jprry ~:Immerman, Mike Sullivan. a member of the latter division.. Gene Cassidy, Bernie Michael\ Lacrosse's similarity to basket- and Paul Wintrich. There are a ball is one thing Allison stresses. number of promising sophomores, Describing lacrosse plays in gen- ,all t'f whom Allison expects to era!, his words for them are \pick work into his plans. pick, pick.\ The similarity to · 'I'hoJ schedule this year includes. ·hockey is another thing he em- in .a.dditiQn to Cornell, MIT, :Ho~ phasizes. .At face \off the three bart, :Hamilton, Mdddlebury, Col- men on attack line up on a line. BRUCE LLISON gate; Williams, Syracuse, Stevens 20 yards dovin·field from the goal; · ' A. and the University of New Hamp- the three men at midfield line up. on one, tW() on one drills. With shire, 1:t is an extremely tough on the midline, on~ at center, the . the move outdoors, as :soon as sehedule, but with any luck, wit.h other tw{). at either wing; the the snow Is g<me, work on de- the spir.Jt the Garnet stickmen three men on defense line up 20 fense and .o-ffense should begin show now, and with the skili they· yards from their own goal, while in earnest. .Allison, according to • are rapidly attainl:ng under Bruce the goalie .remains within the manager Max Steele,. plans to use Allison's tutelage, a productive crease. The .field itself is 60 yards a. mail to man d!'!iense, and a and successful season is in the wide, 110 ya;rds long, with the series of pic!~ off 11rays for of- offtllg. / goals 80 yards apart. fense. Steele states, however, ~---------------------- Cornell First . that the coach's preference righ. t ·L U I G I 1 5 t Tlie Garnet stickmen open their now for man .to roan does not • twenty-sixth season, April 12, mean that he may not use a zone - l when they meet the Big Red at defense. Tllls, of .course, is a RESTAURANT 1 Cornell. Practice has been go- matter of w:ho you!:' opponent is. I ing on discreetly at the field- Anison, who, in addition to Specializing in 1· house, and while Coach Bruce coaching lacrosse .and probably Italian-American Food 1 Allison has been somewhat ham- being its greatest :aficionado on 1 pered by the impossibility of campus, says that tbereis a. place. 1125 BARRETT ST. I bringing ·practice out. .of doors, he for almost any man on a lacrosse l S h t d Dl 6 44 feels that things are shaping up. team-men adept at passing fit in · c enec a Y -97 1 Lack of scrimmages has made it at attack, men wh<> can ru:n can E • 0 I difficult .to assess· each man's cap- be used at :midfield, bruisers ar.a n1oy ur .. abilities on the field, but the ses- t1sed at defense. 1 Sizzling Steaks and Chops sions in the fieldhouse have not 'l'he tremendous· enthusiasm for ~ I been without considerable value. w:hi<:h All!S>I:ln has brought Visit Our New Cocktail Bar I Allison, wh\>Be _philosophy on la- with him has spTead this year to ----------------------' r·- -·-- .. ---- •- •-- •---- .. -- •-- •- •- ------ -liJ!III--- .. • Bruce felt that \there probably won't be any weak weights next year if everyone comes out.\ Union was hurt in some matches this year when the wrestlers were forced to concede fifteen or twenty pounds. With Dixie Berg- man, Ned Hatfield, Barry Hoffer, Bill Pike, and Art Friedman re- turning along with Bruce, Holland and the freshmen, the Garnet should be well protected in every division. Bruce continued, \Undoubtedly several fellows will go to the 4-I's next year. Several members have the quality of taking the cham- pionships. They will certainly not be outclassed.\ He also felt that the wrestlers could use this tournament as a springboard to the national championships. The wrestlers were quite happy with this year's performance. They felt that the team had done its best and were ready for every match. Coach Bruce Allison, : JAY JEWELRY CO. :: I ~15 STATE STREET 1 Jenny's got it ••• tire bright taste in beer! :.I. [). . Diamond Importers ¢ : Member 1 I Diamond llureau I I . 1 Antwerp, .Belgium I I I • ARNOLD FISHER. '50 I r---·~-~------·•---~·-···-··•-•••••••••••~ A Quickest way to cool a thirst is a cold glass of Genesee. Its brightness comes clear throug. h to your t~;~.ste-refreshing, satis- fying. Jenny is brewed for · today's tastes-with a lively flavor that .stays bright all evening long. So next time you relax., at home or friendly tavern, treat your thirst to the bright taste in beer-that's Genesee! they thought, had handled the team very well, with special em- phasis on getting the team in the .proper frame ·of mind before each match. CYmck Bruce was espe- cially impressed by Allison's coaching. He said, \Allison came up with some valuable sugges- tions to me, personally. He opened up new possibilities in pinning by showing me new holds.\ About the team's mental fr<~.me ·of mind, Bruce said that \team spirit was terrific. Allison brought up ideas that made the team members think continually.\ -~-o-- Field Renamed Union College's newest athletic field has been named Garis Field in memory of the late Dr. Charles F. Garis, Dean of Union College \from '1.904 to 1947. ' ·Garis ·Field is located ·north of Memorial Field House bordering Nott Street. Until recently, it had been the location of \Dutchmen's Village,\ a temporary veterans' housing project which was torn down a year ago. The new field will be used starting nex:t fall for varsity .soccer and lacrosse, ac- cording to Athletic Director Wil- ford H. Ketz. ---·0•--- Letter to the Editcr To the Editor of Concordiensis: Americans have just cause to be proud of \Explorer HI\. We of the Alpha Delta Phi believe that we can aid the American space exploration program. It is with the utmost regret, but wit,h the knowledge that man- kind will benefit, that we volun- teer Thomas Wiggins :Mader to be shot into space ... as soon as possible ... to give America an- other \first\. Sincerely, Nat Pulsifer '59 M . .John Lubetkin '60 JAMES RestauraAt • GOOD FOOD at prices you can afford Booth and Fountain Service 426 State St. j ,. I !, !' r l

6 Geoffrey Seed To Be Exchang·e Professor UnionSZO Chapter Set Garner Jazz To Be Heard \Tickets for the Enroll Garner Frl~ayi March 21,,1958 Juniv:r Prom Date-Causes Debate in Student Council Dr. Geoffrey Seed will be St. Andrew's exchange pro- fessor at Union in the forthcoming academic year. Dr. Seed will conduct courses in American history, specifically the history of the American· {Continued from Page 1) Jazz Conce-rt this Saturday night of Israel, its problems, economic wm not be on sale at the doori and military, its tradition, ·.cui- and the few which remain wiil be Donald May, Chairman of the Student Cou)lcil Elec- tions Committee has announced the dates o;f important class and Student ,Council elections. Revolution. t:ura1 and social and the role it on sale tomon;ow morning at .the All meetings listed. below will~~~-----~--~----- plays in the world of natio~s. Student Activities Office\ asserted lalte place on th.e specified date John Hoffman and Gerald· Fincke, at noon in Memorial Chapel. One · On Union's campus, the organ!- Chai-rman of the Ticket Commit- .point cba,poel credit will be given. ' zation plans to have a. program tee of the Enroll Garner Jazz Commuters sh()uld vote in. the ; · of seminars every two weeks Concert Weekend. :Student Activities Office on the Cohn Elected WRUC Manage.r among club members. It also \From all -ind'ications,\ they designated days ibetween -the hours·. · t\ d \th t · of 9 A.M. and 4 P.Ii([. The followirig officers were I t I t . g con ·lnue e <!Oncer promises elected· to the executi\ve· .bo~rd of The exchange professor is by no means unacquainted with his subject nor is he a stranger to this country. A native of Eng- land, he has devoted years of study to the field of American history and currently holds the post of Lecturer in American and Colonial History at St. Andrew's. · Part of his extensive graduate' preparation was done at the Uni- versitv of Michigan, where he earned an A.M. degree in 1942. He lectured on one subsequent occasion at Queen's University in ·P ans o sponsor arger mee m s to be a soci\al as· well \'S a f 1 · 11 Official nom.lnating petitions· . ' · . ~ - ra(li\o ~tation WRUC .a. t its an_nuai ' open to the student body, with anci\al success\ may be obtained i.n the Student ~ · · · election held Tuesday aftern-oon, spea;kers from the national or- A d\ t th C ·u th Activities Office. Forty names, ccor mg O· e . ommi ee, e .from the candidate's class are re- MarcO. 18, in Memorial Chapel. :\ganizatlon local speakers and doors will open to the public .at . d 1 d t . · B·~ul· Cohen succeedS: WI\lll\am. 7 45 p M d th t ·u qmre n or er o secure a. nom-· ~ ' .films and displays on suc·h topics : · · an e concer Wl ihation for any- claJ>s office or for·' Sortor as Station Manager; Mich- Kingston, Ontario. as Israel the Mel~g Pot of the ·begin promptly at 8 : 30 · All seats the Stud:ent Council. · ael· Carpenter succeeds Roger Near East. The Student Zioniist. are unreserved. Tuesday, Marcl!· 25 - Officia( Newman as Program Director; ' Organization is non-sectarian and The Business Office has re- nominating petitions available. Charles Pike was reelected to the · ls open. to all students who have quested that students park their Friday, March 28-All petitions posi:tion, of Technical Director; : a sincere desire to learn about ·cars .away from the center of 'must be turned into the Student Joseph Coons succeeds Robert · the State of Israel. campus in order to make parking ·Activities Office. before 4:30 P.M .. Saltzman a.s Busine:;;~ Manager; sp.a.Ge available for the large turn- and Ellsworth· Hart suooeeds him- Dr. Seed, who wiH hold an ap- pointment as Visiting Assista!].,t Professor of History at Union, will spend next year here ih con- junction with the twenty-three year old Union College-St. An- The members are invited for a . nominal fee. out of Tri-City Area residents Elootion Dates self as Personnel Manager. which is expected. The Business ' T_hursday, April 1~ - Pri~B;i\Y· Each h~s had previous st;l.tlon Office also reminds students that . votmg to be held m fratermty ,perience as officers. Cohen serv- no smoking i13 pe!'Illitted in Mem- houses and dorms from 7 to 8 ed one year as chief announcer, orlai Chapel. P. M. . • . . . Carpenter as Record Librarian, drew's University exchange pro- Dr. ·Geoffrey Seed gram. IIi:; counterpart in the exchange professor 1958-59 exchange will be Dr. Andrew's University. ·Frederic!!. L. Bronner, Professor change places with of History at Union. Fredeiiek Bronner. ------------------ Student Restrictions Were Harder in Days of NoU ROwan Wakefield, Director of Public Relations, has recently been engaged in research concerning the Eliphalet Nott Admlin- lstration at Union. He writes on the topic of student control. \Recently a Senior assured me®•-------------- that Union College students back in the days of President Nott un- doubtedly had fewer restrictions imposed on them than today's students. I failed to convince him that he didn't know ho -.· lucky tieth instead of the Nineteenth he was to be born in the Twen- Century. I think the paragraph below, which appears in the Cata- logue during the 1&30's, makes my point. ·~vernment is. for the most part, parental and pre- ventive. and devolves nn the President and resident pro- fessors. Those students who do not cheerfully submit to it are silently dismissed. No student is allowed to visit Taverns or Groceries; to be out of his room at night or to go out of town at any time without permission; nor is any society to held Its meet- ings at night'.\ ---o--- Bree ... · (Continued from Page 1) aration, The First Man, perhaps Camus will set forth his stand- ards. Miss Bree concluded her lecture a:s she opened it, reinforcing the dualism on Camus' thinking, and stating that \he is truly a man between two worlds.\ Professor Bree was born and educated in France where she earned her graduate degree. She has also done graduate work in this country at Bryn MawT. Af- ter teaching in Algeria from 1932-36, she joined the faculty at Bryn Mawr, teaching there and at Middlebury Summer School until 1953. She then joined the New York University Staff to be- come Chairman of the Depart- ment of French at Washington Square College and head of the Department of Romance langu- Student Council. . . ~~~~ :~d t~~i~~~~~ate Schoo] of Albert Camus was .the Nobel (Continued from Pa,g-e 1) Prize winner for literature in ·1957 The next Draft Defer.ment Test will be given on May 1, .. 1958. This will be the only test · offered for tlh.e 1957-58 school year. Scores Inrule on the test are used by local hoards as 001e guide in considering re- quests for deferment frmn Inilitary service to continue :studies. Applications are now avail- ' able in the Student Activities ·Office and must be completed and •postmarked no later than midnight, Friday, April 11, 1958. Thursd~y, ;A.:pnl' 17-ElectiOn of Pi)(e and Hart succeed themselves ,..-----------------------. c~ass . otfiCers a?-d S~udent •Co~n- Jn the same positions. JoseJ>h Room rent of $62./ro fu)r c11 Representatives m fra.termty Coons ser:ved as Director of Pub- fresJunen and upperclassmen . houses and dorms from 7 to 8 Jidty and Promotion. and the ·OOa.rtl fee of $47;00 for P. oM. · · · freshmen for the second half . · Thursday, April 24-Election of of the current semester will be : \student Body President and Sec- payable at the Business Office, retary in fraternity houses and Monday, April 7-FJ.'iday, April dorms .from: 7 to 8 P. M. · 11, 1958, inclusive during the Class ·Meetings more Class meeting. ·Candidates for President will speak. Thursday, April 17 ~ Junior Class meeting. -candidates for Pr.esident will speak. h.ours of 8:30 A.M. to Noon and front 1 P.M. to 4 P.M. A late paYm-ent fee of $5.00 will be -m.arged after April 11. Monday, April 14 ~ Freshman . Tuesday, April 22---\General Stu- Class meeting, Candidates. for dent Body meeting, Candidates President will speak. . I for President of the Student Body Wednesday, April 16 - SOpho- will.speak. REQUIRED READING Parties, March 21; and Spring and is best known In America Prom, May 8. for his novels, The Stranger and Fincke also outlined the method The Pest. Other of his -works in- by which proms and other week- elude The Classics and The Fall, ends will be assigned to classes I and a recent collection of his short and organizations in the future. ~tories, Exile and Kingdom, has 'I he new method, by which a four JU~t appeared in translation in member, bi-partisan Student Coun- this country. This Interesting, fact-nlled boollls certain to be inform- alive for all college engt- lll~ering students looking forward to thelr future careers. ell committee would solicit bids r-------------- from prospective sponsoring groups was designed to allow early fvrrnulation of the social calendar. This will permit the Athletic Department to provide athletic contests to coincide with big weekends, and to prevent con- fusion such as that which oe- cured over the date of this year's Spring Prom. In other action, the date of the top level Tippecanoe Conference ·between Administration and the Student Council was set for Sun- day night, May 25, and Joseph Coons and Nathaniel Pulsifer pre- sented and sp-oke briefly on the revised constitution of the Dutch- man's Rathsltellar, which the Stu- dent Council subsequently adopt- ed. Hillel Elections Hillel held its annual election of officers for the 1958-59 fiscal year on Monday evening, March 17. The following were elected: Martin Silberg, Presjdent; Paul Wollman, Vice-President; Harold Lewis, Secretary-Treasurer; Peter Goldfine and 'David Kurland, Campus Religious Council Repre- sentatives. -there•re · No Better So ••. MARRY ME Fran . . . . and I'll buy the Wed- ding Ring at Maurice B. Graubart & Sons, Jewelers, 166 Jav St. We can rely on their 3 genouotion reputation. Dan --------------------------------····----------, Good Food Without Frills 1 NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT I THE OLD RELIABLE I FOR OVER 60 YEARS ~ E~~~~:~N~-~----··-·-:::.~~-~:J I Send today for your· copy of this 16-page brochure about the career opportunities which can be yours at one of the nation's leading electric and gas utility companies, Public Service Electric and Gas Company. Write Public Service, 80 Park Place, Newark 1, N. J. for your free copy. The electric and gas industry is a growth industry, vibrant, full of promise with excellent chances for you to advance. Be sure to see the Public Service man the next time he is on your campus. PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC AND GAS COMPANY, NEWARK 1, N. J .. A 0 tt fE PI se be b;y to sp sil ot at .& at ·se se F• [t B H 1~ hE ;bl U: H A u !11 ir ! 1 1

6 Geoffrey Seed To Be Exchange Professor Dr. Geoffrey Seed will be St . .Andrew's excha11ge pro- fessor at Union in the forthcoming academic year. Dr. Seed will conduct courses in American history, specifically the history of the American~ Revolution. The exchang-e profe>!'sor is by m> means unacquainted with his subj,•ct nor is h<' a otranger to this country. A native of Eng- hnd. ht> haq dt>VOtP<l years of : s\udv to thP fi,•ld of AmPrican I hisl~rv and currPnlly holds the I post dr Lecturer in American and I' Colonial Hi~tory at St. Andrew's. Part of hi:; extensive graduatl' preparatiOn was done at the Uni- versi tv of Michigan, whcr·e he l'arne:\ an A.l\I. de~ rec in 1942. He h•ctur('d on one subsequPnt occasion at Queen's l.:niv<•rsity in Kingston, Ontario. Dr·. Seed, who will .hold an ap- pointment as Visiting Assistant Prof~·ssor of History at Union. 1 w rll sp~·ru.l. next year here in con- 1 junction with the twenty-three f year ulc.l 'C'Ilion CuHcgc-St. An- 1 c.lrcw':> 'C'IliVersity t•xehange pro- I gnuu. lib counterpart in the 1 Hl5h-59 exchallge will be Dr. Frederick L. Brunner, Profc\sor I of History at Union. D-r. \:~.cluLIIge professor Andrl•\\''s L'nivcrsity. cluurge places witlt :Fr,t•dt•riek BrounPr. from St. He \ill Professor Student Restrictions Were Harder in Days of Nott Rowan WakefiPld, Director of Public Relations, has rl\<!o.:>ntly bl\Pll engaged in research concerning thP Eliphalet Nott Admin- Istration at Union. He writes on the -topic of student control. \Recently a Senior assured me1>--------------- that Union College students back in the days of PresidC'nt Nott un- Bree . doubtedly had fewE'r restrictions 1 • • Imposed on them than today's (Continued from P~e 1) UnionSZO C.hapter Set (Continued from Pa:ge 1) of J:srael, its problems, economic and military, its tradition, cul- tural and social and the 1:ole it p-lays in the world of nations. On Union's campus, the organi- zati-on plans to have a program of seminars every two weeks among club .mem·bers. It also plans to sponsor larger meetin-gs open to the student body, with speakers from the national or- . gan·ization, local s·pt>akers and films and c.lisplays oR such topics as Israel the Melting Pot of tht> Near East. The Student Zioniist Organization is non-sectarian and is open to all students who have a sincere desire to learn about the State of Israel. The members are invited .for a nominal fee. The next Draft Deferment Test will be given on May 1, 1958. This will be the only test offered for the 1957-58 school year. Scores :made on the test are used by local boards as one guide in considering re- quests for deferment frOiill military sen1ce to continue studies. Applications are now avail- able in the Student Activities Office and must be completed and •postmarked no later than midnight, Friday, April 11, 1958. Friday, March 21, 1958 Garner Jazz To Be Heard· Juni'Or Prom Date Causes Debate in Student Council \Tickets for the En·roll Garner Jazz Concert this Saturday night will not be on sale at the door, and the few which remain will be Donald May, Chairman of the Student Council Elec- tions Committee has anmunced the dates of important . class and Student Council elections. on sale tomorrow morning at the All meetings listed below wili<$>-----~--------- Studcnt Activities Office\ asserted take place on the specified date John Hoffman and Gerald Fincke, at noon in Memorial Chapel. One Chairman of the Ticket Commit- . point chapel credit will be given.' tee of the Enroll Garner Jazz Commuters should vote in the: Concert Weekend. Student Activities ·Office on the. \From all indications,\ they designate-d days between the hours conti-nut>d \the concert promises of 9 A.·M. and 4 P.M. to be a social, as well a:s a fin- Officiwi nominati-ng petitions ancial success.\ may be obtained in the Student According to the Committee, tht> Activities Office. Forty names doors wiH open to the public at from the candidate's class are re- 7:4·5 P.M. and the concert wi'J:I quired in order to secure a nom-· begin promptly at 8:30. All seats ination ·for any class office or for' are unreserved. the Student Council. Tuesday, March 2{} - Official The Business Office has re- nominating petitions available, quested that students park their Friday, March 28-Ail petitions ears away from the center of must be turned into the Student campus in order to make parking Activities Office before 4:30 P.M. space available for the large turn- out of Tri-City Area residents which is expected. The Business Office also reminds students that no smoking is .permitted in Mem- orial Chapel. Election Dates Thursday, April 10 - Primary voting to be held in fraternity houses and dorms from 7 to 8 P. M, Thu!'sday, April 17-Election of class officers and Student Coun- cil Representatives in fraternity houses and dorms from 7 to 8 P.M. · Thursday, Apri-l 24-Electio·n of 'student Body President and Sec- retary in fraternity houses and dorms from 7 to 8 P. M. Class Meetings Cohn Elected WRUC Manager The following officers were elected to the executive board ol radio station WRUC at its annual election held Tuesday afternoon, Mar•ch 18, in Memorial Chapel. Paul Cohen succeeds William Sortor as Station Manager; Mich- ael Car.penter succeeds Roger Newman as Program Director•; Charles Pike was reelected to the posi'tion of Technical Director,; Jo.seph Coons succeeds Robert Saltzman as Business Manager; and Ellsworth Hart succeeds him- self as Personnel Manager. Each has had previous station perience as officers. Cohen serv- ed one year as chief announcer, Carpenter as Record Librarian, Pike a;nd Hart succeed themselves in the same positions. Joseph Coons served as Director of Pub- licity and Promotion. more Class meeting. Candidates for President wi!I speak. Thursday, April 17 - Junior Class meeting. Candidates fot\ President will speak. Room rent of $62.50 tor freshmen and upperclassmen and the :board fee of $4.7.00 for freshmen for the secoond half of the current semester will be payable at the Business Office. Monday, April 7-Fri.d~ty, April H, 1958, inclusive duving the hours of 8:30 A.M. to NQon and front 1 P.M. to 4 P.M. A late payment fee of $5.00 will be 'C\harged after April 11. Monday, April 14 - Freshman Tuesday, April 22----'General Stu- Class meeting. Candidates • for dent Body meeting. Candidates President will speak. I for President of the Student Body Wednesday, April 16 - Sopho- will speak. students. I failed to convince him aratlon, The First 1\'lan, perhaps that he didn't know ho ,,. lucky Can-:~us will set forth his stand- tieth instead of the Nineteenth ards. he was to be ?orn in the Twen- I :Miss Br,ee concluded her lecture Century.. I thmk the_ paragraph~ a.<l she oprned it, reinforcing the below, w~!ch appears. m the Cata~ · rtualisrn on Camus' thinking. and loo1~~ durmg the 11130 s, maltes m:,. I stating that \he is truly a man REQUIRED p · I between two worlds.\ 'Government is. for the Pt·ofessor Bree ·was born and most ·part, par·ental and pre- ('ducated in France where she ventive, and devolves on the President and resident pro- I earned her -g-raduate deg-n•e. She fe.ssors. Those students who 'has also done graduate work in i this country at Bryn Mawr. Af- do not eheerfully submit to 1 ter teaching in Alg('ria from it are silently dismisscJ. ~ 0 : 1932-36, she joined the faculty at student is allowed to visit TavPrns or Groceries; to be ~{Y~\ii~f~l~~·~r~ca~h~:m!~er~c:~o~ out of his room at night or until 1953. She thPn joinPd the to go out of town at any time New York Universitv Staff to be- without permission: nor is come Chairman or' the Depart- any society to held its meet- rnent of French at \Vashington ings at night'.\ Square College and head of the o Department of Romance langu- ages at the Graduate School of Student Council 0 •• Arts and Sciences. Al·bert Camus was the Nobel (Continued fmm Pag-e 1) Prize winner for litPl'ature in 1957 Parties, March 21; and Spring and i.s best known in America Prom, ::<.ray 8. for his novPls, ThP Stranger and Fincke also outlined the method, The Pest. Other of his works in- by which proms and other week-: elude ThP <'lassiPs nnd The Fall, ends will be assigned to classt•s ·and a r£'eent collect inn of his short I and organizations in the future.! ':ltori,..!\ Exile a.nd Kingdom, has The new method, by which a four' JU~t appeared in translation in member, bi-partisan Student Coun- thrs country. cil committee would solicit bids r---------~----. from prospective sponsoring groups was designed to allow early f,nmulation of the social calendar. This '-'<ill permit the Athletic Department to provide athletic contests to coincide with big weekends, and to prevent con- fusion such as that which oc- cured over the date of this year's Spl'ing Prom. In other action, the date of the top level Tippecanoe Conference between Administration and the Student Council was set for Sun- day night, May 25, and Joseph Coons and Nathaniel Pulsifer pre- sen ted and spolte bril'fly on the revised constitution of the Dutch- man's Rathskellar, which the Stu- dent Council subsequently adopt- ed. Hillel Elections Hillel held Its annual election of officers for the 1958-59 fiscal year on Monday evening, March 1 17. The following were elected: .Martin Silberg, President; Paul Wollman, Vice-President; Harold Lewis, Secretary-Treasurer; Peter Goldfine and David Kurland, Campus Religious Council Repre- sentatives. T.he.-e•re t, No Better So •.. MARRY ME Fran .•.. and I'll buy the Wed- ding Ring at Maurlco B. Graubarl & Sono, Jewelers, I&& Jay 51. We eon rely on !hair 3 gener~tion reputation. Dan :·~------------------------·-----------~-~-~---, f Good Food Wlt&o11t Frills ! ! NIOHOLAUS RESTAURANT l • I l THE OLD RELIABLE I J FOR OVER 60 YEARS I t I I I I ~~B STATE STREET CAFE • 01 6-95271 [~~~~~~~~~:~ .N: -~· -------·---~~~:~:J READING Thts Interesting, tact- filled booli Is certain to be inform- alive for all college engi- neering students IooiHng forward to their future careers. Send today for your copy of this 16-page brochure about the career opportunities which can be yours at one of the nation's leading electric and gas utility companies, Public Service Electric and Gas Company. Write Public Service, 80 Park Place, Newark 1, N. J. for your free copy. The electric and gas industry is a growth industry, vibrant, full of promise with excellent chances for you to advance. Be sure to see the Public Service man the next time he is on your campus. PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC AND GAS COMPA;NY, NEWARK 1, N. J. A-60·58 j se be b;y to sp .su or at A: at se se F1 It B H 1£ ·h( bl U: 1! A tl :M ir

