:oefe.rred PaCJe 3 Rushing Editorial: ·Page 2 J Founded at Union College in 18~7 PRICE TEN CENTS Rushing Proposal For Fraternity Approval IFC to Vote On Rushing Plan I By ,Robert . Galvin · \After reviewing the ad- vantages and disadvantages : of a prospective deferre<l I rushing system at Union, 'the Inter Fraternity Coun- Pictured above are members o:f the Inter Fraternity Council as flhey debate the Plan for De.ferred Rushing at Union College, 1960..Sl at Tuesda.y's IFC meeting. Th-e proposal awaits accept- wnce by the fraternities. Alumni Council to Honor Its Executive Secretaries came into being as the Graduate Council bf Union College on Feb- ruary 4, 1916. The alumni body it- self, -according to college histor- ical records, had been incorpor- ated by the Board of Regents in March of 1857, but it lacked a cen- tral coordinating or governing body ca,pable of maintaining cl~se contact with the scattered alumni and stimulating organized activ- ities. Representation Outlined cil-Student Council Joint Rushing Committee unanim- ously decided that the con- cept of deferred rushing on this campus is a desirable one.\ With the announce- ment of this statement of policy, the Plan for Deferred Rushing at Union College in 1960-61 was formally pre- sented to the Inter Frater- nity Council at its Tuesday night, April 5, meeting. Informally refeiTed to as the \Pfeiffer\ plan because it was or-iginally drafted by Rober-t Pfeiffer, '61, the present proposal is the result o.f more than two months of intensive study by the Joint Committee. The Deferred Rushing Pro- po$31 in its entirety will be found on page 3. Committee Secretary Paul Co- hen of :Oelta Upsilon presented the plan to the IFC point-by-pojnt to facilitate questioning of indi- vidual sections by Council mem- bers. Among the major consid- erations discussed was the Col- lege's $100 nocstrings-attached cash grant,' and its offer to ar- range a suitable social life for freshmen during the first semes- ter. Members of the Committee alS() pointed out that additional financial recompense would be affected because the College would permit freshmen to eat six meals at fraternities in the sec- ond semester, instead of the us- ual four. After its presentation to the IFC, the proposal was placed on the floor to permit open discus- sion. Blaize Cooke of Delta Chi opened discussion by .stating that although he advocates deferred rushing, he would like the plan to make provision for more con- tact between freshmen and fra- ternity members. Cohen explain- ed that \they can see men in all of the activities, We must re- member that they have a whole semester to look at the houses through various sources, through academic achievements, spor-ts pa1•ticipation, activities and other !IJ!pects of college life.\ \Besides Cohen continued, \we still have the two week concentrated rush- <Contin~ed on Page 6) Delphic Society Supports CORE A.t its April 5th meeting, the Delphic Society voted unanimous- ly to support the .student sit-down de1nonstrations in the South and other efforts by students, to se~ cure their rights as first-class citi- zens. Deploring the wave of dis- crimination in the .South, the Un- ion College Honor Society voted to give financi~ support to the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE), the organization spon- soring student picketing of the Hillel, the Christian Association Thus fat, this weekend, . there Woolworth chain for its segrega- and t.he Newman Club respective- was an executive committee tion practices and encouraging 1y, a.re hoped to. give \U'nion stu- meeting at 1:30. Other activities student sit-down demo.nstrations. dents an opportunity -to heat re~ for the weekend include seminars The fund-raising drive will Jigion presented in an authorita- on college operation by Vice-Pres- focus on the annual Delphic- live way,\ stated: Dr. Norman B . .fdent of the College. Donald L. sponsored Campus Auction, to be Johnso.n, Profess~r of :Millham, on the subject \Union held in Memor-ial Chapel, at :p.oon. Also. the guests will •be able to College - A Business Organiza- Friday, April 29. Since s!lveral attend and participate in cl~ses tion\ and by Dean C. William wo.rthwhile charities have tradi- in W'b!ch they are interested. Huntley on the subject \Union tionally been ben,eficiaries of Auc- :Next week Mr. Marco College-An Educational Iiistitu- tion proceeds, the Delphics feel who was a ·Dutch HELP tion\. The spring meeting of the a responsibility bo continue their at Union in 1953-54 and is .Alwmii Council will be held to- support. It is the hope of the preparing for the Christian minis-. morrow morning at 9:30. Society that student participation try at Union The_ological semin- and generosity at the Auction ary in N.Y.C., will speak on, \My .will enable Union to give sulr Choice of a Life Work.\ The' On Monda;y April 11, there will .stantial financial and moral sup- week of the 18tb the Newman be a. meetil~g in Biology Lab 205- :port to CO:J;t:E. Club will sponsor Rev. Owen for all stu.dents applyi'ng to Medi- All articles and services up fo.r· Bennett speaking an, \The Church cal and Dental schools this oom- sale are donated ,by the faculty in the Modern World.\ ing September. and staff. •

2 ;;ui'(;, Olnnrnr o : ~ieuata 0 0 ,,~f. L ~, \v.f1CTA1J1 Published l<'r!days during the Buitol•ial lJf.fice, \Vashburn Hall, school year by the Student llody Union Col:ege, Publication < >f· of Union College, Schenectady lice, Th~ Gazette l'ress, 334 N. Y. Nat!onaJ Advertlsmg ltcp: :1tate St. Euteret! 111 th10 :Och~- resentative: National Adver·tis- n••<\ta<ly l'\ost Offke as l'e<'ond mg Service, Inc., College l'ub- crass MaLl .Matter, subscription Jishers Representative, 420 ~lad- !Oc a eop~·. $2 a year til• livered !son Ave., N. Y. C. anywhere In the United States .• ~E.!'IIOU BtJARD HuBI::llT J. UAL\'1:-; 'til ....••.... lJI ti-~Oh ............ EdJtur-iu·Chief l'l·:·n:H J !\Tl•:I:-.:r:I •. \S!S 'GO ...... 111 G-<119 ......... Eu1tor Emeritus llAHHY L. HUll!~ '6-1 ............ Ill G-~•ll59 ........ llnsiuess ~lanager l'AJ\.J L. \\'ULL~IA:--: 'GO ..... , ... EX o·U7Ul .......... 1Ianaglug J,:ditor I.E:slin~ 11. ~!Annes 'G~ ......... n\I G-9~'~·~· ............. Sports Editor RU;\;ALil E. l.)Hl!l:H:--: '62 ......... !>I 6-Ul>5V .............. :--:ews Editor LA \VHI·~:-.:CE H. LI-J:-:TcH:--:I~H '6~ I> I 6-~·<~3 .......... Features Editor . For Stronger Fraternities For many yea1·s, L'nion fraternity men have watched askance as their archai<: s,Ystem of immediate rushing, which is based almost wholly upon mutual de- ceit, has forced them to accept :members without the careful investigation and consideration that this important task requires. Freshmen, new to college and frate1·nity life, all too frequently mak~ a decision based on a fleeting glance, a few short words of rumor about house \X\ or house \Y\ and a chance first impression by a brother. The high rate of f1·aternity attdt]on resulting from de-pledging and de-activating reveals only part of the sad story. There are no statistics to tell us how many misfits and unhappy matches have been made between house and member. The matchmaking system is outdated and ineffec- tive. It is both morally and practically disasterous for both mates. The divorce rate is high Clearly, a new • system of \mate selection\ must be employed if both members of the marriage are to thrive and be of ser- vice to the institution to which they owe their loyalty. Fratemity members, realising the cumulative weak- nesses which the tragically outdated immediate system has caused and fearful for the future of their houses if they continue to handicap thems<elves in the vital area of self perpetuation, have at last banded together to see]\ a solution which would strengthen their houses and insm·e their future by similarly strengthening the body from which they perpetuate th.emselves and the institution to which they belong. After vears of search and mollths of intensive study, the ·fraternity group has come forth with an ideally conceived, yet intensely practical plan, to which they have given the descriptive nam-e, \deferred rush- ing.'' Deferred ;rushing is the answer to the problems which face Union's fraternity system because only De- ferred insures a strong fraternity, a strong student body and a strong Union College. The Plan for Deferred Rushing at Union Colleg~. 1960-61 is presented to the student b<Jd.Y on page three of this newspaper. Accompanying it are some of the more important reasons why the concerned fraternity presidents recommend it for Union. Among the advantages accomt)anying the proposal are the more obvious: Deferred rush.ing will result in improved class and school spirit. Out· own lack of pride in Union has unfortunately become a joke in national academic circles as well as on our <»wn football field. Deferred rushing will imp1·ove the condition of inter- collegiate athletics and extracurricular activities. Activ- ities and teams will no longer be d<Jminated by partic- ular fraternities and all houses will benefit as their members engage in the athletic and aetivities programs. Deferred rushing will improve the aca..ilemic standing of the college, because freshmen and fr-aternity members alike will be solidly acclimated to academic life before rushing begins, and the strain on both gl'Oups will be lessened. The \Pfeiffer\ system of defeJTed rushing for Union is as::mred of success on oue c-amtHIS because it includes an ~dequate social life for fre~h men, inherently more effect1ve enforcement of rushing rules and pro- visions for elimination of financial problems that have he1·etofore been associated with rushillg. Adequate social life for freshmen is assured in sev- el:ai. ways. De~n of Students 0. Ed ward Pollock has willmgly committed himself and the c:o!Iege-to this job. New facilities for entertainment of dates and other g-~ests will become available with the completion of Richmond Hall next month, and a:ddit:ional facilities are planned for the future. ~he newly formed Dormitory Col.lncil shows great pmm1~e of assistance in this area. Tfle freshmen class Its~If 1s_ fully competent to arrange its social life. The socml climate at LJnion would improve if Freshmen were allowed to choose their social life for themselves in- stead of _being- thrust into a competiti-ve and unrealistic Rystem m which theit· social contacts, often women fron: _nea_rby colleges, are bargained for by the fra- t~rmties m tl_1e hope of providing frosh with an addi- twnal attmctwn or enticement. . Rushing rules will be' more effective under the Pfeiffer plan because it is inherentlv a less hectic sys- tem anrl encou~ages f1:l;ir play on both sides. In addition, the fre~h~1~an Is requ1red to share with the house the respons!l.)lhty of obeying the rushing rules. With a $100 no-strings-attached cash grant from the colle~e, a staggering reduction in the amount of free rushmg meals to be served and freshmen eatino· (a~d paying, und~r agreement with the college) fo~· 50% more meals m the second sernester, the Pfeiffer proposal makes adequate compensation for the finan- cial problems which previously accompanied rushing. In Right Under Our !Voses Communists ·suspected By Donlll.d D, l\l.acDonaltl Donald D. :MacDonald, wli.o has in recent issues corun1ented on possible presidential <mndidates, here deals with the Siena. College Cardinal J.Uindszenty 8t'udy Group. gar Hoover and ot)lers in the security field for his brilliant worlt as a counterspy for the F.B.I. Mr. Philbrick has endured constant attack from that sec- tion of the ,public which subscribes Last Saturqay, this writer had to the strange philosophy that the privilege of attending a clinic makes lt unethical to infOTm on on Communisn1 held at Siena ·col- one's \cumrades.\ Following Mr; lege. The program ·was under Phll.brick, several excellent fHms the direction of the .Siena College were shown. \'!'he Crimson Cardinal Mindszenty St11dy Group. 'Shadow,\ an Army- Intelligence This organization. is ·composed 'Of Se1•vice film dealt with the patriotic students who have dedi- methods used in detectil:1g Co.m• cated themselves to the .fight , munists and their fronts. \Com- against Communist conspiracy, munism I~ ,a Dis~ase,\ was a f.llm Berlin Negotiations ()pp.used outl~ning Sev!et goals. and sub- versive uperatlons. Th1s fHm was narrated by the fam.ous Dr. Fred Schwartz of Australia, Dr. Schwartz has often been a con- sultant to the House Un-American Activities Committee and is con- sidered olie of the most learned' and competent a11thorities on Com:munism in the world today, Dr. Schwartz refers to Commun- ism as a \disease\ because of the fact it has destl'Dyed millions of people. We· bel·ieve \plague\ would be a more appropriate W<lrd. The program, which lasted most of the day, wa:s outstanding. Dr. Anthony T. Bouscaren was the first speaker. Dr. Bouscaten is an Associate Professor <Of Political' SCience at LeMoyne College, and a former faculty member of the National War College. Dr. Bous- caren spo·ke oil \The Nature. of Soviet Foreign Policy.\ He be- lieves (along with many other in- formed people) that tbe U.S. should abandon its present policy of appeasement toward the Sov- iet Union and world Communism. .ti.e equate our present naive ac- ceptance of Khrushchev's peaceful co-existence line a:s «defeat on the installment ,plan.\ Dr. Bous- caren also suggested that we de, vote more effort toward the lib- eration of the enslaved peoples behind the Iron Curtain. He o:p- poses the coming negotions over West Berlin on the grounds that we have absolutely nothing to gain and everything to lose. He also maintains (as does the Ne\W York Times) that we do not have the right to sell West Berliners into slavery, abandoning them in a cns1s. The next speaker \vas Dr. Bella Dodd. Mrs. Dodd is ex- tremely well qualified to discuss Communism, having held a high position on the Commu.nlst Party National Committee. Dr. Dodd was a leading official .and teach- er in New York City for many years during which time she was intimately connected with the Com- munist network working tilrough our school system to pervert Am- erican youth. Indoctrination ~ethOods Cited Dr. Dodd stated that at one time there were over J.,OOO Com- munist school teacher.s in New York City alone. Her lecture dealt with \Communism and Ecl.u- catlon.\ She also ex.:plained in detail the methods of indoctrinat- ing the public with Marxist ideol- ogy and making it appear as sim- ply a \liberal\ or \progressive\ idea. Outstanding ex::.am.ples of this tactic are the multitudes of Communists set up by the Reds to push Soviet foreign IJOlicy anti propaganda. The committees al- ways have patriotic sounding names: Jefferson Sch(){)l of Sci- ence, etc., and almost ahvays fol- low the \party line,\ The Com- mies can always find big names to put on the stationm·y beading. Their best source is the \profes- sional liberal corps\ who regu- larly fall for such pie in the sky proposals as \unilateraJ dillarma- ment,\ \repeal of the Smith Act\ and \the abolition of the Hot1se Un-American Activities Commit- tee,\ our prime defense against domestic traitors. This informa- tion should startle no one who is familiar with the numerous his- torical examples of \liberal gen- erosity\. Hungary, E\ast Ger- many, Poland, Estonia, China, North Korea, etc. We next heard a tape recot'd· ing dealing 1vith Communist youth activities. The nalTator was the famous Herbert Phil- brick. This is the man who has been given high praise by J. illd- Trojan Clt;ed Father Stephen Janto, Profes- sor of History at Siena College, gave the c;oncluding address. ·Father Janto's object was \Com- munism, .a Trojan ·Horse?\ He maintained that world Commun- ism is attempting to win the Third World War without firing a shot. Father Janto pointed to tpe fact that even as the Com- munists preached peace they were ·building to vast proportions their already fmmidable propaganda machine. lie believes that if our foreig~ policy was based more on the principles of freedom, the forthcoming summit conference would be considering a. demo- cratic solution f<lr the East Ger- man slave state, rather than the dubi'Ous result now expected for our West German democratic al- lies. l'Ul'Jl()Ses Explained 'The final speaker wa:s Patrick Raymond, the president of the Cardinal Mindszenty group at Si- ena and President of its Junior Class. Mr-. Raymond explained the purpose of the foundation and the worlt undertaken by other anti-communist organizations. - We are now engaged in a struggle to determine whether our way of life of democracy and fre~dom everywhere shall con- tinue to e:x!st. The alternative is all to obvious. Let us remem- ·ber that it wa.s propaganda and appea.sement that softened the allies for the deadly blow in 1939. \Mein Kampf\ had warned us years before. No one believed the warning. Karl Marx has pro- vided us with ovet• a hundred years warning of the next at- tenJpt to stifle mankind. If we fail again to read the writing on the wall, if we allow ourselves and our nation to become brain- washed and tranquilized by the constant stream of propaganda and threats-then we will have lost this Third World War and there ·will be no Fourth. Ancl. that prediction made in Poland will have been flllfilled: \We will bury you ... \._ .Anyone requesfing fUrther 1n- formation about the Mindszenty group inay write to Paul Baltay, Alpha Delta Phi, or Don Mac- Donald -- CdoncordieiJ.sls-political column. An opp.()sing vie~v to that of tlte Mindszenty Group · will be found on .pa.ge 4, in the form of a Letter to the Editor written by .Jooal D. Ticknor, '61). addition, although not specified in the proposal, the Joint Committee b.as .suggested that fraternities could work through the IFC to requjre that freshmen pay their fair share of rushing costs. Other methods, such as increased 'parlm· tax in the second semester or a uni- versal limit on rushing expenditures, could be affected by the fraternmes if they so desire at any tirne in the future. A vote for the Plan for Deferred Rushing at Union College, 1960-61 means a stronge1· fraternity system and a stronger Union College. 111111111111111111111111111111111 11111111.1111111 Jlltllllri.IIIIIIII11111111111WIIIIIIIIIUIIU n SCOTIA N 0 W thr'u W ED . ART THE A TEE NIGHTLY AT 7 AND 8:50 \Beyond the Power of Critical Words to Assess.\-N. Y. Posf \YOU SHOULD NOT MISS IT!\ ·-Norman Vmcent Peale - JILBEJLT 5CIIWEITZE1tr HIS TRUE-LIFE STORY in COLOR illtllllllllllllll lUI f'1111111111• liiiiiiiiiU 1118111alll ill 11111111111111111111 :IIIIIIIIIIIIIIUII Friday, April s. 1960 Great Decisions - 1960· By DaVid S. Keene The Great Decisions dise.ussions tion. of a major defect in AmeTi- for 1960 'Will conclude tonigJJ.t with can policy planning our tendency the :presentatiqn .of tit~ topic to careen along from crisis to \U. S •. ·Global StJ.'ategy.\ '.lll:ll'ough, crisis, dealing with problems on out tfi.,e term of the disc~ss(ollll an ad hoc ·basis. th'll OONOORDIENSIS lt!Q.S pre- se-nted tl:ie college communi:ty with an autlwrita.tive article o:in eaCh respective topic, The fO>l!o:Win.g conclusion to the series is \'vritten by Prof~sor David S. K8'1lne; of the Govermuent departm.ent. According to a dic:tionary r;lefinition, strategy, in thE mili- (ary sense, involves the naneuv- ering of ·forces \into the most advantageous position .p.l\ior to actual engagement with t.lte en- emy.\ Similarly, in the field oi foreign policy strategy suggests foresight, advance planning~ to- achieve defined goals 01' defend national interests. The values which United States policy- seeks to realize areo not difficult to de- fine. We are commLtted to the survival and security ~of our: coun- try; to the maintenance of a free, open society, both for its ·i!lttrinsic value to the Americap. people as an exan1ple to the awakening peo- ples of Asia and Africa .of the vitality of our 'ip.stitutiorfs and our way of life; and to the fos- tering of an international .society conducive to the spread ~f free institutions everywhere. The controversy over U.S. pol- icy arises when we turn from the realm of ultimate values to con- siderations of strategy caleulated to realize these values, Here it can be u.rged that Americ~~;n pol- icy fails to measure up t~ the aforementioned definition of strategy. Can it be said, for ex- ample, that American ·policy around the world has bee-n cal- culated to place us in the most advantageous position for clea.Ung with the Communist bloc? Take Berlin, for example. Ad- mittedly our exposed position in that ]Jeleaguered city cannot be attributed simply to shorts.ighted strategic planning. Nevert:heless, it has been nearly eighteen months since Khrushchev deliv- ered 'his ultimatum on Berlin; yet who today can say with certainty what our policy is concernhtg Ber- lin if the Soviet moves to c:ut .off our access routes to West; Ger- many? Our only official policy is the rather vague and often re- iterated determination to defend our \rights\ in Berlin. Certainly President Eisenhower addecf: n'Oth- ing in the way of clarification in his remarlts last year which were to the effect that nuclear war over Berlin would .be suicidal fo:r both sides. Of course, we could not hope to wage a successful gro.und war in Central Europe wit:f:l con- ventional forces given the over- whelming numerical superiority of the Soviet Army. Again, suppose Khrushchev fol- lows through with renewed threat to sign a separate treaty with East Germans and turns ov-er su- pervision of the traffic between Berlin and West Germany to the satellite. It is by no means clear that our policy planners have evolved a strategy for c!.ealing with a contingency such as an East German demand to ;~;~tamp our travel d·ocuments on the Ber- lin corridor. I cite the :Bet•lin situation as simply one iii.ustra- When In New Yo-rk Visit(!!l:rlpp 14 E. 44th St. • New York i7. ~.Y. MUrray Hill 7-0850 A similar criticism could be made. of our policy ·in regard. to Nationalist China and the off- shore islands in the Taiwan Strait. In the absence of any immediate threat to the status quo we ha:ve been content to let matters sim- mer just below the boiling point, without any serious effort at strategic planning of an eventual solution to the problem of the \two Chinas.'' Thle period of stagnation in strategic planning is likely to come to an end in the decade of the 1960's. Regardless of which of the political parties is in power many of the basic dogmas of our foreign policy wiH have to under- go a searching reapprasal. For example, the containment pol.icy followed since 1947 dictated the encircle>ment of the Soviet Union with ground forces and SAC bases. to ward off further Rus- sian expansion. Yet only recently we have found it expedient to give up our SAC bases in Mor- occo. It may similarly be neces- sary to reassess the net value of our bases in Spain in the light of relevant military and political consicj.erations, such as the shift in our deterrent force from nu- clear bombers to missiles, and the effect on American international prestige of our alliance with the Franco dictatorship. · In the Far East our continued support of the Chiang Kai-shek regim.o on FOt·mosa ha:s largely been based on a belief that its demise would have a domino ef- fect, undermining a succession of governments in that re:gion. In the UN we have been able to ward off consideration of the seating of Red China by the General As- sembly in session after session, although each year has seen a narrowing of the margin by which our view has preva:Hed when put to a vote. Here again, as the mpmbership of the UN is swelled by the emerging nations of the underdeveioped areas, we may expect an eventual reconsidera- tion of our policy on these sub- jects. For more than a decade we (tContinued on Page 6) ............................. ~ Besf Service in Town Schuh I Esso Service 715 Nott St. Come in and Fill Up with the Best Gas in Town DIAMONDS STERLING WATCHES GORDON JEWELERS 1611 Upper Union St. ALL REPAIRS DONE ON PREMISES DIAMANTE Restaurant and Bar Visit Our New Dining Room A Place to Go to Relax Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott St. Open Daily I 0 to l A.M. Sundays 5 to l A.M. Ul 11111111111111111111 I Ull U 11111111•11 e ~Ill IIIIUIIIIIIIIU I'UUIIIIIIIIIII 1111 IIUUIIIIIII;. Down to Louis', let us- g:o, ;==~ Let the lager freely flow. _ A unique plac~ to diJJe with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - C<>rner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties CJccommodated · in our . ·RATHSKELLER For reserv..:ilions phon: FR 4-89I7 ~IIIIIIIIIUII.IIIII.IIilllllliiiiiiiiiiiii •. IIIJIIIIIIIIIIJJIUIIIIIIIIIIII.IIIIIIIUJII.IIIIIiiiiUIII,. · The foll the wmk ·of bated by the cil RusMng with the wis Student Cou: The plaJ the interest ter11iity syst(l tween frater ester; reducE mal :rushing and the s:;th rently in e:ff I. The First A. Rushing ·84 Monday, Sept. Friday, Oct. l Fra:ternities dents, 8 P.M Saturday, Nov. ties open to J to 1 A.M. E :Provide new B. Rushing E There shall :be new studen mel). during ex<;e:Pt :for 1 and ca:ses: 1. Eriday, 0 ity .stag F to new st1 to 1 A.M. enQourage• Stag parti• new studE men on 1 'Place OI!lY ity house the hours A.M. 2. Sattlrday, ternity P.< students. new stud• men whicl th.e norm: regular c< tivity will II. The Forn: at Start Oj A. Rushing J Monday, Jan irig in dom Tuesday, Jan ing in dorn Friday, Feb. P.:M:.-1 A.M. Saturday, Fe1 P.M.-Z· A..M, Monday--T,hur. mal Rushil P.M. only. Frida:y, Feb. P.M. to l. Saturday, Fe· 1 P.M. to: Sunday, Feb period en< rushing j;lei ately 8 P.l Deferred school spi me<Uately first forn: school. Tuesday, Fel period end Thursday, :E 6 P.M. B. Ru.sh.in..go 1. Formal 1 fined as : -a) verbal for :r dates. b) any s< a new ternit~ 2. DefinitioJ DENT: A. studen lege for 1 ing tran~ acies) wl tives 'of:; Any othe tacted a:t: .gard to 1 3. There sh ing periu cHi Jlll:onc ·and end-i ary 12, : second 1 Deferre( colleg.iat· lJ:rtion. ' consumiJ fh·st sei pa1•tici1)~ . to come a name t~ge dUJ ··too, wil'l since ar , associat, Consequ by mem

1960 sis to on be to off- ha:ve sim- 'po.int, at the in to of power OU1' For policy the SAC Rus- to Mor- of of shift nu- the the inued its ef- on of In ward As- a put the the may sub- we I Friday, Ap..:il 8~ 1961) 3 Rushing Plan Aids Fraternities; Financial A deferred rushing program would improve thE aca· Sup· pleme· It· t· . The followmg pan. :for ~eferred rushing, originally®·~~-------~-----------------------~---<$> the work of Ro~ert Pfeiffer, 61, has been extensively :de- 15,A.ll :fraternity rushing gr-oups bated by the J01nt Student Cou,.ncil-Inter Fraternity Coun- will wait In the area specified cil Rushing Coromi.ttee ~nd has been modified in accord by_ the IFC: enforce~ent co~- · demic standing of the freshmen, The freshmen, not be- ing faced with the. time consuming activities of fmter- The student Council-Inter Fra· nity rushing and pledging in their first months, v;ill be___. t~rnity Joint Committee on Rush- The plan for- deferred rushing is presented solely in 16. On Sunday, February 12, 1961, able to devote far more time to lhe academic side of ing submits the following supple· the interest of strengthening Union College and its :f.ra- an fraternities will submit college life. Under .the present rushing system, fresh- , ment to the original plan fo.r de- with the wishes of the several Fraternity presidents and, m1ttee untJl tl:Le ttme des1g- st d . t c· ·1· · t t\ · nate<l: !Jy the.se rules for rush- . u en· .ounc1 represen a· 1ves who. compose that group. ing to begin in the dormitories. te:rnity g'<rstem. Its basic features are: ll\mited cov.-,tact 'be~ their bi:ds a.nd quota t() the b . 1'1 • t 11 1 b ferred rushing in the hope that \' ~·· •neutral body by 3 :P.M.. All men · · egin their co ege careers vu· ua Y two wee (S · e- the suggestions contained -herein tween fraternity men and freshmen during the first sem- rushees w!H deposit their hind in their work. A deferred system would also give will afford the student body the ester; reduced rushing by the fraternities during the· ]Ol'- choice .of :fraternities in <>rder ... the fr~ternity man a lighter initial load and thus enable , · opportunity to consider the over- mal rushing period at the start of the second semester- of preference in the assigned him to start off the new school year on the right aca- all merit of a defer-red rushing and the .satne cooperative bidding system which is CUl'~ place In West College by 2 demic foot. plan with concrete provisions and tl . ff ·t P.M., Suaday, February 12. suggestions to combat any major ren Y lll e. ec • Bids and pt-eferencefl_ will ·be problems which might be incurred I. The First Se~ester, ,196o-(!1 <$> matched as specified ia the Under a deferred rushing system, both the heshmen in the change from our pr-esent A. Rushing SciiJ,edule soon as a list -of unbid men is · Cooperative Bidding System. . and the fraternities would have a longer period of time system to the new one. Monday, Sept. 19'--Classes begin published end~ng at 10 P.M:. , On Sun·da_y evening, the neu- to observe the relative merits of one another. 'This will A. Financial- Friday. Oct. :).~Stag Parties in d h 11 d T d F b tral body 'Will submit a jjst of · · · l 1. Provisions: .. an s· a . en. on ues ay, e-., b occur through extracurncular actlvtties and informa Fraternities op.en to new stu- r 14 t 9 30 p M un .id rushees t{)· the fraterni- a-The college will give each d ·ts 8 p M t 1 A·u uary a ·= • · :: t1'es h1\ch h e t f'll ·d the\ associations. Each freshman and each fraternit\( man · h . en , ... 0 _ .... u. w av no· 1 e , 1r 1 . .; fraternity $100 as an .outTlg t Saturday, Nov. 5-Fraternity Par- 4. New students shall be issued quotas. :R-ushing .by these fra- . will have to 1'4?1Y more on his merits and less on the grant with no strings attached ties open to new students 8 P.M. an appointment calendar ort · ternities which have not ful- · exaggerated and often misleading \snow job.\ if a deferred system is put to 1 A.M. Fraternities will not which they sh~;~.ll list tbeir in- · filled their quotas will begin' into effect. p~~~W~~~W~d·& d~~~~~OOL ft-':_~~~·~~~r~t~e~W~i~p~t~G~f~lli~e~l~i.s~b~._f~r~o~m~~==========~=======~===~~-~~ ~~~-~be~w~to~ calendars .shall be posted ·con-,; - ·- six. (6) mealll per week in the B. Bushing Rilles spicuously in the new students., s h d J f h F 1 R h• p • d fraternity, instead of the There .shall ·be no contact between room. . c . e u e or t e ' orma us In,g eriO :present four (4), during the new students and· fraternity. 5 . New students may not be sign-· <Ja.n. SQ .Jan. 31 Feb. 5 second semester. men during the first semester ed up to any meals on Monday, Monday Tuesday Sunday c-The number -of mea:ls served ex.qept for the following dates , J 30 d T d J , to rushees during the ·formal and cases: anliary an ues ay, anu.- Formal Rushing in No Contact rushing period will be reduced Feb. 1 Feb.~ Feb. 3 Feb. 4 Wednesday Thursday Friday Satn.rday Dinner No Contact Stag ·ary 31. Written 1nvitatio.ns for Dorms 1' \'~l·day October 1'. Fratern- S t d F b 4th t to ten (10), as compared to ...,. ,.,-- a ~r ay, e ruary . ' are.· o 7-W PM 7-9 PM . d th ity Stag Parties will be 'Open be tssued between 7 and 10 Invitations extended twenty-s1x. (26) un er e to new .students from 8 P.M. P.M. on Monday and 7· to 9 both nights d ~esentllsystem: 1 t' t Parties Dance at open to Fraternities freshmen 1 PM to to 1 A.M. Freshmen will be P.M. on T11esday. ~ - e co ege Wll con mue o encouraged to attend these . 6 . New· students will depos!'t the·l·ri Feb. 6 Feb. 'I Feb. 12 , subsidize 1 dfratternithies dfor 2 AM Feb.9 Feb. 10 Feb. 11 Stag parties. Contact between Monday Tuesda,y Sunca.;y mea s serve o rus ees ur- new students ancl fraternity replies to invitations for Sat- ing the formal rushing per- men on this date wm take. urday, February 4 befo:re 12 Lunch No Contact iod, in addition to tbe $100 Fab. 8 Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Lunch Dinner Lunch Lunch place onlY inside the fratern- noon, Wednesday, February 1 Dinner mentioned above. in a ·designated. place in West F or rna I R u s h I n ·g 2 Suggest1'ons· ity house and only between · · th.e hours o'f 8 P.M. and 1 College. Fraternities will .be 9 PM- a.-The fraternities, working Dinner Dinner Dinner Dance at i n Dorms 7:30-9- PM Stag fraternities. Parties Rushing A M - notified of the acceptances as Deadline through the IFC, may arrive ·. • soon as possible. for Sat, at a standard freshman house 2. Satu.rday, Nuv.ember 5-Fra-· 7 _ New students will he limited invitations bill (not including J>ledging period ends at 2 AM_ ternity P.arti~s open to new fees, dues, etc.) for all pledges. students. Contact between to three meals per fraternity Second rush.ing peri()d stacls ;with publication· of tlllbid lists on Sunday, Ft>hruary 12 at: ~:00 P. M. This will prevent financial . - new students and fraternity during the entire first formal. Monday, Feb. 13 Tuesday, Feb. 14 Wednesday, Feb. 15 Thursday, Feb. 16 discrimination on the part .of men which takes place during rushing period. New students Second' rlLShjng period Second period ends No Contact Pledging at 6 PM the val'ious chapters. 'l'hrough th. al f t . - f .are not :permitted t.o attertd t 9 30 P\\' e norm . . unc \Onmg o a brea}{.fast a.t the fraternities. ·- Lunch, Dinner a : .w. this method, freshman bills regular college-authorized 'ac- In Dorms 7:30-9 PM Lunch, Dinner rnay be set so that they will tivity will be permitted. 8. New students may not accept In Dorms 7:30-9 PM compensate for the redu<!ed an invitation for a formal' chapter income dudng th.e II. Tb~ Formal Rushing Period- at start ·of seoond semester A. Rushing Rules Monday, Jan. 3Q-Formal Rush- ing in dorms 7-10 P.M. only. Tuesday. Jan. 31-Formal Rush- ing in dorms 7-9 P.M .. only. Friday, Feb. 3--Stag Par.ties ·· 8 P.M.-1 A..M. Saturday, Feb. 4o-H'Ouse Parties 1 P.M.-2.· :A.M._ Monday-Thursday, Fe'b. 6-9-For- mal Rushing in dorms, 7:30-9 P.M. only. Friday, Feb. 1Q-Stag Par.ties 8 P.M. to 1, .A.M. Saturday, Feb. 11-House Parties 1 P.M. to 2 A..M. Sunday, Feb. 12-First Rushing period ends 2 A.M. Second rushing period begins approxim- ately 8 P.M. rushing period meal until lliron- th.e neutral body and will con- B. Duties and Authol'ity - It plinary action, it being deterrnin- first semester. day, February 6 'with the ex- tinue on Sunday until 10 P.M. shall be the duty of the above ed by th.e severity of the misde- b-The IFC may have the power ception of Saturday, February prescribed enforcement commit- meanor: to regulate the money spent 4. 17. On Monday, February 13 and tees to investigate and report to A . . f h h by individual fraternities dar- 9. ':Che only written. <!ontact ~e­ tween fraternity men and new students during the for- mal rushing period sh.all be the extension of and re:ply to an invitation fo.r Saturday nights, February 4 and 11., meal and/or date. Invitations for the party. S!l-turday, February 11, may not be issued until Monday, February 6. All such invitatioM shall 'be extended by 9 P.M., Tuesday, January 31, and February 7. Until 12 noon on Wednesday, Invitation and acceptance will be written only, and the acceptan:ce \Vill be deposited in a designated place in West College, A.fter 1 P.M. on Wednesday, bids Tuesday February 1 4 r11shing a) · 11 V!Olatlons 0 t e rus - lng the rush1'ng per1'od. This • ' the IFC upon any violation of the 1 g 1 hall warrant not1\fi by the fraternities that have · n rues 8 - May include sUch things as not fulfilled their quotas will rushing rules. These committees cation of the national fratern- limiting the :number of cock- continue in accordance with shall have ·the authority to: ity. tail parties, number of bands, above-mentioned rules. Only 1. investigate any fraternity b) Fines of not less than $5.00 etc. This suggestion could be those men whose names ap- house at any time and not more than $250 may be incorporated into the rushing pear on the unbid list are eligi- recommended by the enforce- rules. ble for rushing during tile sec- 2. investigate_ :any dormitory rnent committee. SUMMARY: ond rushing period. rooms at any time c) Any violation of these The deferred rushing system 18. On Wednesday, February 15, 3. ipvestigate any oth.er areas in rules may warrant the default- ·will afford fraternities the oppDr· 1961, fraternities that have not which infringement of the ing of the pledging- rights of tunity to organize and 'financially fulfilled their quotas miLilt sub- rushing rules may have or are the fraternity involved. plan their rushing program in ad- mit a second list of ·l:>ids by taking place, d) Any violation of these vance. The Committee fully 9 A.M. t() tbe neutral body. Uri- These committees shall report to rul!!B by a new student will re- recognizes the fact that the fra- bid rushees must submit a sec- the' IFC all violations of the rush- sult in loss of pledging rights ternities may encounter some fin- ond prei:erence list on Tues- ing ;rules with r-ecommendations to any fraternity llntil Septem- ancial difficulties during the first day evening by 9:30 P.M. C fo . • . ber of the followi:ng year. year• after the installation of a to the ouncil r dl~!plmary deferred rushing program, but it 19. F'ollowing the second r()und of action. The recommendations of IV. Financial Provisions must be remembered that this is th t a.1 b d these committees shall become matching by e neur o y, 1 A. The college WI'll gt've $100 a long !\' proposal and that fra- b 'd \11 b. d' t 'b t d to b nding when passed 'by a major- . a.ll · 1 s Wl e lS rt u e to each fraternt'ty.· In add!'tion, ternities will be able to organiZe h W -~- · d F br ity vote of the member fraterni- d rus ees <>n =ues ay, e u- ties of the IF,O. the four meals. that the pledges their finances and bu gets so as Deferred tushing will .result in improved class alld school sphit. Since each incoming class will not be im- mediately divided into 18 groups, the freshm€n will first form allegiances among themselves and toward the ary .U'i at 8 P.M. eat in the houses in th.e first sem- to meet the difficulties that arise 20. On the :first round of bidding c. Penalties ester under the present system during the first year. a.ll fraternities must submit would be replaced by six meals their lists of bids at tbe time 1. Any fraternity having a new under the proposed deferred sys- The following is cited to illus~ specified. by the above rules. student in its h()use at any tii{le tem. :Rushing meals will continue trate solutions to any .financial Any fraternity which wiShes other than those times authorized to be paid for through tile college. l'eadjustment that may temporar- t<J subm.it a second list must. under the rushiag ruleS shall be Uy arise during the first semester school. · Tuesday, Feb. 14---:Second rushing period ends 9:30 P.M. Thursday, Feb. 16-'Piedging at 6 P.M. B. Rushing' Rules and acceptances for SatwcJay · night will be verbal. also comply willi the above fined $50. Originally submitted to the upon acceptance of a deferred rules. Any fraternity which committee by Robert William system. does not submit its bids at the 2. Any fraternity man ridihg Pfeiffer. Final proposal modified a. There may be an increase in . t with a new student in a motor ve- by the IFC-Stttdent Council C\i>m- freshman house billll during the cmeclfied time will be subJeC h\ ta · ~\' tale during any· no con ct per- mittee on Rushing. second semester. Such increases, 10. Du ring the. period of pel\silnal to a fine of the rules enforce- · d h 11 bj t hi f t 'ty 10 , s a su ec s ra erm -Initiated by houses individ\Ually contact, all discussion must 'be ment c()mmlttee. to $50 fi - a · · ne. Respectfully submitted, or equally on all houses by agree- limited to the particular .fra- 21 . All rushcees shall pledge at the ment of the IFC could completely t •t ·ted. 3. The r11shin-g rules enforce- '0 1 G ~ he erm Y represen fraternity designated by their ment committees of the IFG shall -\au · v<J n absorb any decrease of freshman 1. Formal rushing shall be de- li. During the perioil., Mond'ay, bid at 6 P.M. on Thursday, lJ.;;tve tlle right to recommend to Secretary funds in the first semester. fined as follows: February 6 , to Thursday, F'eb- February 16, 1961. the Council the following disci- IFC Rushillg Committee b. figul'es cited as .. losses\ .in - a) verbal or written invitations ruary Q, rushing outside the 2 2. Every individual who partici· actuality represent gross revenue for meais, parties, and· dormitories will end at 7:30 pates In formal rushing will which has not been received, ra.th- dates. P.M:; there will be no rus!iing be responsible for complete d t d er than an expense or a. ·true loss, b) any social contact between between 7:30 and 9 P.M.·except knowledge of the rushing The freshmen will be able to more clearly 1ll1 ers an c. this decrease in gross funds a. new student and a fra-· In the dormitories; rushing of'· rules. the role and signifieMce of the fraternity system at woul-d be offset by an outright ternity man. an types 'Ceases at 9 P.}{. · . Union. Witlt more time to question and reflect on the cash grant of $100 to each h'OUSe 2. Definition of a NEW STU- 12 .. 0n Friday (Saturday morn- DI. En.:fo~e1;1t attributes of the various fraternities and the system by the College on the acceptance l 'ng), Februar\T 4 and 1:1, rush-. A. Organv:a.t10n f. h . 11 b bl t d 'd h th of a deferred system, the gain DENT: ., as a whole, the res man Wl e a e o eel e W e e1· in revenue by serving six meals A. student entering Union Col- ing shall cease at. 1 A..M. On.' 1. First Semester - The IFC or not he desires a place in the fraternity system and per weelt instead of four, the gain lege for the first time (includ- Saturday (Sunday rnol'nirtg) shall at the beginning of the first . J\ust what fraternity characteristics are meaningful to resulting from serving- fewer ing transfer students arid leg- February 5 and February 12, semester establish a rushing rules h h f h d th rushing meals, and the securing acies) who are not already ac- rushing shall cease at .2 ,A..M. efifor<Jeme:nt committee consisting ·him. In the final analy$iS, bot t e res mEn an · e of further gains resulting from tives ·of a fraternity. _ No new student shall staY in of four presidenb of member fra- fraternities will be happier with their selections. the adoption of the financial . b a fraternity }:louse ov:emig-ht. ternities of tM IFC.. Thill com- recommendatt'ons of th.e Joint A.ny other student may e con- . , \- tacted and pledged without re- 13. On Friday, February 3 and 10, mittee shall serve betwee1'l .,.,p- Committee . . gard to the above restrictions. no new student shall be off- tember 1~ and October 17. At •campus with a fraternity man· the end d this first enforcing 3. There s:J:l-~11 ~e a formal rush- after 7 P.M. :period a second committe-e similar ing period 'beginning at 7 P.M. , to th.e fitst, but with four differ- o-n Monday, Janu.~ 30,. 1961, 14. RUllhing groups from ~me fra• ent members will serve to enforce and end·ing on S\mday, Fe-br'u- ternity cannot delay ru~hing rushing rules between October 17 aty 12, 1961, at 2 A.M. The groups :fl\om another fraternity, and NO.veml>er 14. In similar fash· second perio'd s!Iall begin as for more than ten minutes. • ion· as pJ?escribed above~ a. th.~rd r--,__.._ __ ........ ,....._, ___________ -'-=-----------J· committee will become effective, Def .. erred rushing will. improve the condition of inter- :. November iL4 and a. fourth .on De- .. u1 · cember 12: The Executive Com- colleO'iate athletics and extracurric ar act~voities at '·· mittee of the IFC shall 'have the 1Jniort. Tlle . freshmen will not be faced with the time • .. power to increase the membership consuming aspects of ·rushing and pledging du~ing- the • : of this coinmittee at its discre- fl .l'St seru· ester. They will therefore be more l.Ikely· to tion. Th.e· chairman foL\ ea~h of the four enforcement cornmtttees • participate in College activities where they will be able · . shall be ch<Jsen by the Executive . to come into contf:l.ct with fraternity men and tD make · co:rrimittee. a name for themselves which they may use to advan- · 2. For:mai Rushing Perio~~ tag.e. during the fermq;l FUShing period. The activities,. Before the formal rushillg penod t.oo, wil'l. g· et .a better d.istribution of the S'tudent Bi>dy begins, the Executive Council· b I lik shall decide upon members for since any partieula1,· activity wili e ess · ely to be the ru1es etlfor<Jement c()mmittees. , associated by .the fre§lhmen with any one fraternity. Eaeh of these committees shall Consequently; the activities will no longer be dominated eonsist of three member's to serve by members of one fraternity. - a· :Peri<!d o:f three ,days from the .start <Jf the second semester. Jay Jewelry Co. 315. STATE STREET Diamonds •.. Purchased in Belgium and Imported for -Your Savings, Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. Arnold Fisher '50 '• '

4 Mathematics Curriculum Undergoes Mo·dernization I. F. C. -Reporter Speaks Don't Put Out the Fire. 'Friday. April, 8~ '1?60 ADVERTISEMENT In response to the rapidly changing demands of mod- By Steven Eisen .PETE. el ·n. sci'ence and socl·ety, .a mfj·J'ot· revt'si'on of the Union I have been ·reporting the hap- More than ·that, you owe it to . ;. · · ...... · ·. \' penings of the IFC meetings for yourselves, your fraternity, and College mathematics curriculum was recently approved by the past year In the capacity of your school to spend ·the time to Gomcordy reporter to the IFC as analyze this plan and see its r.nan;y: the faculty. 't' well as to the Stude:p.t Council .. merits and goals. You. must look· .. s··y .. E. ··I· N. · .... G .. · .- ... ·.·L-. A. ·.·.·s·• ... s ... '. At lower clas;; level,; the change levels -those who have advanced Due to Concordiensis editorial at .the broad picture, not merely tal<es into acccmnt the nation- standing can skip the first year policy ·of keeping news articles at the individual objections you wide accelerated and streamUned calculus cour·se; those with nor· completely unprejudiced; and un- might have. No plan has ever secondary school math, programs, mal secondary school credits in biased. I have pleased rull the people, nor will' It themselves indirectly a result of mathematics will take the regular been unable to evel'. However, this. proposal was L·.o·. 0. · ··K ..... s·.·. , A .. y· ·. · the demand for revisions. At up- freshman calculu.;;; and tl;:10se present any of drawn up to be objectionable perclas::; levels some COUl'ISCS have with a minimum background in my own ideas . to the fewest number, if any. at l.oeen dropped; other::; accelerated; nmth can take a special inboduc- and feelings in all. It. ·is for these reasons that and caur~es in new fidds of mod- tory course called \Fundamental my column. I '\' the deferred rushing plan r.nust, ern mathematics, as well as sev- ~!athemaHcs.\ Of the 300 some fee 1 however, and should be passed, If we are era! adva'!1ced traditional courses. freshmt>n in the entering class, a that the pro- to have an effective fraternity have been added. The changes, 1mlf dozen have advanced, and posal before the system here at Union. scheduled oV<'I' a three·year per· 200 take the regular freshman student body It must be realized that until iod. were initiatPd this yea1·. calculus. l<'ive years ago, less concerning de- the election of Leo Dunn as Pres- Rigid ~t·qu<'n<'t' Droppt\d than hal.f the entering class wa.s ferred rushing ident of the IFC, the gl\'up had Specifically, the rigid seque~ce prepared for work at this level. warrants more . been comparatively dormant tbis involving calculus as a reqUire- Chang-es in the philosophy and than a news story. year. Through Leo's efforts, the mcnt for all '!dvanc\d courses has in the content of the mathematics The student body will hate to council has taken on a new in- bt•en dropped so that a more flex- curriculum are taking place on a make a major decision concerning itiative policy, and trying .to fur- ibh• set of upperclas.;; courses can massiVl' scale throughout most of the future of fraternities at Union, ther the fraternity system at Un· bP m:1d<> hv liberal nrts :;tudents the nation and other parts of the an issue affecting Union itself.· ion. as W<>ll ns ·hy m~ thematic:;. engi- 1 m lid, acconling to Professor Fox. The motion has been tabled so 1 The IFC has supplied the fuel, netTing and ~ciPilCt' majors. New The ch:1nges start in elementary t·hat you, the fraternity men, caul It is your responsibility to kindle to the curriculum will be courses .:<chools in this country where a!- discuss, and sensibly consider this. I the fire, which has been so often in Probability, ,Statistical Mathe· gebra is beginning to enter the plan for deferred rushing. quenched at Union. What hap- matics, Numct'ical Analysis. and cunieuiurn-c::tlculus is being You must look at this proposal .pens now rests entirely on your Topology. Calculus, still the core taught in an increasing number objectively, with a cDmpletely shoulders. Before yon is a sound, of curriculum. may be started. at of secondary schools where open mind. You owe at least that and well thought out proposal. If the beginning of the freshman courses such a;; solid geometry much to your contemporaries, es· you vote against Its passage, you year, but is no longer a prerequis- and separate courses on trigon- pecially Robert Pfeiffer, and the will be casting a vote for the ite for all of the uppeeclass math ometry are ·being dropped. At joint committee, who have worked eventual decline of the fraternity courses, especially some of the graduate schools and in industry many months on this proposal. system at Union. new courses. concepts and principles of new Fo\ Cit<'s Changi'S mathematics are being created Letter to the Editor In the long run, according to almost fash•z· than they can be Professor Augustu.;; H. Fox. taught. ThP revision of the Un- To the Editor of Co-:ncordieusis: fail to agree that these omniscient Chairman of the Department of ion CollPge cureiculum is an at- In reference to Mr. MacDon-1 souls are well trained to expose Mathematics. the changes will tempt to meet these changes all aid's article on the Siena College the Communist cells, which, of provide for: along the line and to produce Mindszenty Group, a few words -course, exi.st on every American 1. Math majors havmg more mathematics graduates who can are in order. This group poses college campus. flexibility in choosing courses and cope with the new and urgent itst!lf as a \::;uper-patriotic\ or- These men are dedicated self- having an opportunity to take a demands that science and indus- ganization dedicated to the ferret- servants, whose ordained. task is variety of new courses which will try are placing on them. ing out and eradication of can- to save us from ourselves. If you prepare them better for graduate cerous \heresies.\ Naturally, believe, ~ <io SOJ:?e of ~our. fel~ow work and for the new demands Dynamic Changes Create Dem.a.nd members of this Vigilante com- students 1n a neighbormg mstltu- of ><c>iPnce and >:ociety: \Some of the demands result mittee have their own divining tion of \higher\ learning, that all 2. B~causc> of the accelerated se- from the advance of high speed rod to di:;cover heretics. For ex- One Hundred and One Per ·Cent q w•nce of calculus. it will not be b F s rtz Amer1·cans must rally round the computing machines which have ample true- lood red' chwa · mandatory for scienCe majors to opened up a whole new field of from down-unde; (an M.D. as .{ Cause, submit all periinent evi- take as many calculus courses as mathematics. Another of the \Diagnostician of Communist deuce (Documents? No. Evi- p reviously required, giving them de ce? N Oh well h. ps of most striking uevelopments in the Theory and Philosophy\) is con- n · o. , w IS mort> fre<'dom to take other math- · f t· ) 1 th G ematics. science, or liberal arts catiun to the social sciences. theory of evolution in the public •Hundred and One Percenters to field of mathematic,; is its appli- vinced that the teaching of the lin orma 10n on ess an · ne co 3 u.rsEens~. 1 . 11 et>rin\ nraJ·u.rs still tak· PI·obability th~>ory, the theory of schoolroom is a guise for instill- your local chapter of the A. S. P. ing i~p\m·tant ;lath courses, such games of strategy, the .ma~hema- ing Communism in the hearts 1 1 C. A. <American Society' fol' the t 1 tlle ,.'\ of commumcatwn as and minds of the inn.ocent. I Prevention of Cad·lik,,e. Activiti.es>,·, as Differential Equations and Cal-l Jca u \' . • eulus but unucr the revised cur- 11ell :1-- tlw tH·m•·nuous gi\0\1 th of One ~hould not think that Dr. Rest assured, your mformat1on l'icui~m they will be able to finish the use of stati;st.ic..'. have not only Schwartz is the only qualified (you !mow what I mean) will be these cour.;;es a year sooner, mal{· opened up. additional uses of new member of the inquisition. The acted upon the mongrels \investi· 1 .t •'hi t' u this mathe- mathematics, but they have been other advocates are equally em- gated:\ Be the first on your block n\~ pos.,~ppeer~lassse phvsics and responsible for the changes in the inent personages. For example, to sign up. Don't wait till to:mor- ma 1 s m · J value of many of the old, cher- we have Dr. Bella Dodd, amateur row; it'll be a day later!' engineering courses; ished mathematical concepts. The Communist and professional anti- 4. FrPShmPn can now enter the Don't let so-called \objective\ mathematics curriculum at three field of mathematics has been Communist; Dr. Anthony Bous- professors fool you. Ask for and <'hRnging in thP PR..\t few years , caren, publicist and pamphleteer demand the facts (the right ones, more mpidly than almost all the of the Un·American Activities of course) and don't let Union other sc~nces-by comparison,: Committee; and, of course, Her- dissuade you from pursuing :your biology, chemistcy and geology I bert Philbrick, whose heart-warm- goal of a \liberal\ education. F·riday Nite Till Nine TROPICAL SUITS have been relatively static,\ Pro·· ing television series is known to fessor Fox concluded. I every American boy. One cannot J. D. Ticlmor, '6() The week just past has been packed with excitement and fervo1· on a multitlule· 0f fronts and so it was with some disappointment that we read the .Ap1·i1 11 :issue of LU'E. For although the · magazine has given an Ull- usually C()mplete coverage to the racial conflicts that are currently tearing South Af- rica asunder, it has been guilty of an unforgiveable oversight in failjng to devote any space te the rece11t de- velopments in the Amel'ican stud en t sit-down strike movement or the intense po- litical battle that cll.rne to a roa1•ing conclusion in the Wisconsin presidential: pri- maries. A Union Sit-Dcwn Although Union College is perhaps the only \xated\ college in the Great Northeast that has yet to show an:v active reaction in support of the greatest national student movement since the \good old '30s,'' any information the college community can receive concerning the progre.ss of the sit-down movement should be welcome. And although the N. Y. Times has been a model of fine journa;Iisrn on this issue, it just can't come up v;ith the pictures .that LIFE can. A fine example of. the LIFE picture can be seen on Page 40 of the current issue. In taking a shot o~ a gleefu-l native throwing his passbook into a bonfire, a LIFE pho- tographer seems to, have captured the epitome of th& bu.rn- ing desire for equality that h~s rmtivated the burst of demonstrations and racial strife in tlte Union of South Africa. Preceding the picture can be found a competent review of the history of the Union which traces the de- velopment of the current \apartheid\ problems. The Bedroom Bikini The latest installment of the Astronauts series may also be of some interest as it was recently announced that our accelerated .space program shQuld put a man into space (or at least a few hundred miles into space) hv the end of this year. But if the Astronauts don't capture ~our fancy, certainly an article entitled \Bikinis Move to :Beet- rooms\ will _meet \vith better success. For accordfug to LIFE the bedroom attire of the American female has passed through many a fad in the past few years, but none quite so pleasing as this current application of the French philosophy of life to domestic noctura:l halJits. And the models are all so sweet. A bikini nightgown on a beautiJul miss is a model o.f congruity; a smiling governor sitting in a beach ehait- which is placed in a cutaway model of a fallout shelter being displayed in the window of a New York City bank however, is incongmous enough to be ridiculous. A q11ick glance at the expressions on the faces of the amused s:pec- tatqrs of the Rockefeller stunt shows they have also im- mediately caught tl1e humor of the situation. LIFE h.as caught the :flavor of the Governor's crusade, and so did the State Legislature. Perhaps prophetically Rockefeller is shown on the following page ·looking f()r a suitable DEANSGATE gives a man notu• rol shoulder styling at its fin- est I In cool. shape-retaining Tropicols or 55',0 \;)ocron''• polyester and 45% rayon. . site for his own shelter by gently slipping into an open . ·manhole. $47.50 :llall~ 1599 UPPER UNION ST. 9:30-6 P.M.· Thurs. & Fri. till 9 P. M. Ruppert makes it one big happy family becaus.e one big happy family makes the Ruppert. That Knickerbocker flavor didn't just hap.pen. Knickerbocker flavor got put there. A hundred years of time and four generations of Rupperts were needed to achieve it. Just a sip will remind you that with beer there can he .no shortcu.tting tradition. .,. Live a little! Ha11e a Ruppert Knickerbocker! JACOB RUPPERT. NEW YORK. CITV Cuba and Birds The \big\ articles for the • week are a cloak and dagger · account of ail•plane espiqn- age featuring Castm's Cuba and the amazing story of the \Birdman of Alcatraz\ a la · Chessman. It makes for interesting and some- times exciting reading, if so inclined .. Here's LIFE- April 11, 1960. \ Frida,y, Apr Volle Thir( Illik M spurted the Union'~ 21 wins agl copping the ment whicl the Pittsf Pittsfield, Teams f.rorr the Schen Westover A well as Un Union star by the spikin! Walt VonSeg over 15-7, an After a close a second vic tady, Coach their blocklnl \must\ game leaving both with 4-1 reco: tion game lef TemP< Playing slo drot>ped a 15- over in the game, seen: themselves. ~ first place. B having lost i came alive a 9-7 in a tim Union and P Iation play w ords, forcing There was net in the ]lla jumped out t• lead and co1 and the chat finished seco: followed by Schenectady'! the first tim taken home from a YMC sport was ini1 Stick A ftc ·The G: Towson St: Conference Over the I crosse team i timore and mages again more, Lafaye sitY. of Dela' felt tMt \ot gave us the training wb.ic before.\ \Fhle In the, sea£ team gave formance,\ l Jerry ZJmn1e unassisted g• position, alo Eddie Reich• also unassis john Campa in the coun: saves, with total saves, ited\ with nln son. Coacl: fense l.s sha top defense ' Bob Fuller a Towson St been termed crosse, had. . Taylor, wb.o six goals. UNION TOWSON

'1960 . has 0f with that issue the an un- to are Af- been devote de- strilce po- to a in the ia;J: pYi- \rated\ any student the of on that on gleeful pho- of South the de- may that into bvthe re your ::Becl- to has rs, but of the ha:l>its. odel of e'hait· sheltet bank q1.1ick d s:pec- im., has so did \ Frida~y, April 81 19&0 5 Vo!leyball Aggregate Wins Pro Pugilism Derided Baseball Team Prepares Third Consecutive Tourney By Athletic DireCtors For Opener With Hobart- Professional box:ing would be outlawed today if the After a week's vacation, the Garnet baseball team choice was up to those who direct the sports program in has regained it's form in preparation for the opening the nation's colleges and universities, according to a re- contest, a week from today, against Hobart. ·cent country -Wide survey. <t> ·coach Lawrence was forced to~ Directors of atllletics voted ·bY; cut the squad to 15· men as the more than 5 to 1 to eliminate the players went through their third fight-for-pay game terme<l the week of practice in the field \down-at-the-heels prostitute of I ·house. The hitting and fielding of organized sport/' by James ·stew-' . the team has improved consider- , .... art•Gordon in his article, \Abolish ably and the club is taking a def- ·'' , .. , Professional Boxing,\ in the cur- inite shape, in the face of a rug- ( .. ~·. rent Reader's Digest. ged 16-game schedule that in- The athletic heads of depart- eludes opponents su,ch as Wil- '' ·: · ments were sPnt reprints of the Iiams, Rochester, Cornell, and article - in which the author arch-rival RJJ;>.I. · strongly advoted the abolition ·of professional boxing because of its ·control by mobsters and the se- vere injuries fighters suffered iu the ring-along with a four-part question sheet. Problem Alleviated The apparent pitching problem has been improved by the deter- mined efforts of Bill Weigand. The sophomo!'e right-hander Will see a lot of action this season along with the club's fire-balling right-hander, Tony Tiska. Tiska The fourth question asked sports h·eads if they agreed with the article's viewp()int t() ban box- ing because of the racketeering element and the health hazard to boxers. To this, ~8 sport's heads· said they were prepared to dump professional .boxing because ·Of mobster infiltration and :32 be- cause of the health factor. Only seven voted agalnst removing box- ing because of racketeering while six said health was not a strong BOXING AT UNION · will be the mainstay of the pitch- ing staff this year and he is slated to toe the rubber for the opening .game versus Hobart. The other pitchers are Bill Cohen and Rod Brinton. Mike Kopec will be behind the plate. The stocky lilik Mellen -axhibiis the powerful spliting style that bas spurted the Garnet n~tlmen to a 21-4 record thus far this season, enough reason. Some comments brought forth by the questionnaire were: Name John Pelton Tn 1960 Who's Who backstop will compose the other half of a strong battery. Big Ron Wortherspoon with his booming bat will be on first base. Ron has shown tremendous hit- ting ability and will be one of the Union's volleyball team extended its season record to 21 wins against only four losses, on Wednesday night, by copping the fh·st annual Dr. Bissaillon Memorial Tourna- ment which was played at~·-------~--­ \ ... Competitive boxing for the entertainment of the :public, both amateur and professional can be faulted as a health hazard,'\ w'rote the Pittsfield YMCA in Pittsfield, Massachusetts. Teams from the Pitts£ielctY, the Schenectady Y, and Westover Air Force Base, as well as Union, participated. Trac. k Prosnect·@o Wilford H. Ketz, director of ath- '¥ ~ letics at Union College, Schenec- F'oJ• his outstanding play during club's most solid hitters. Captain the past season, John Pelton of Dave Mitchell will be at short- Union College has been named to stop. Dave has also 'shown great \'4o's Who in Small College Bas- hitting ability and will be a valu- ket;baJl for 1959-6(), The group able glove man around the key- worked with sports publicity di- stone sack. Union , started out strong, led by the spiking of Kirk Mellen and Walt VonSeggern, besting West- over 15-7, and Schenectady 15-8. After a clo-se loss to Pittsfield and a second victory over Schenec- tady, Coach Aubrey's men, with their block.lng at its best, took a \must\ game from Pittsfield 15-6, leaving both Union and Pittsfield with 4-1 records With one regula- tion game left for eacll. Tempora.ry Setbaek Playing sloppy ball, the Garnet dropped a 15-11 decision to West- over in their final regulation game, s e em i n g 1 y eliminating themselves a..s a contender for first place. But then Schenectady, having lost its first five games, came alive and bested Pittsfield 9-7 in a time-limit game. Thus, Union and Pittsfield ended regu- lation play with identical 4-2 rec- ords, forcing a play-off game. A E • tady, N. Y. ·re neouraglntn Springfield College's EdwardS. V Steitz had this to say: ' \We'll be stronger th.is \Professional boxing could pro- year. I'm looking for an im- vide helmets and otheT protec- d d ( 1 . tion for other parts of ·the body prove l'ecor over ast if it and the public were not •sa- year's 1-5), during a rebuild~ d-istic.' Protection much like that ing year,\ is the outlook ·Of used in fencing c·ould be use<l Garnet track Coach Bill and still have the fitness and Ketz. Of the current 19-rnan movement factol's which are the skills of boxing.'' roste1·, 12 are sophomores. As to the question of why their The big question will be how schools dropped int~·arnural or well they can overcome their varsity boxing programs, Thomas inexperience and whether J. Niland, Jr., of Le Moyne Col- lege, Syracuse, N. Y., said: they can perform consist- \Because of hazard c:>f 8evere ently. injury to participants not in con- In the weight events, veteran dition and laclting either suffic- senlor Chuck Marshall will pro- ient skill or practice.\ vide the points. Mars·hall holds \They became slugging con- the Union College discus rec()rd tests and not boxing. 'I'herefore . and' is a consistent 45-foot shot- we feared a serious injury would putter. Backing him up will be result,\ offered Frank Tootell of junior Chuck H.anle who will pro- the University of Rhode Island. vide special em:phasis in the jave- Cornell's director of athletics. lin throw. Robert J. Kane, felt this way: In the distance events, Union's \It was a highly inapp1.7opriate all-time great, senior Tom Ho:ff- intercollegiate activity-was · th.e man will hea.d the field. Tom cause of corts~ant bickering ·be- holds the mile, two-mile, freshman tween schools and many serious and varsity cross-country records. injuries resulted. Thera were too Tom is also the New York Small many mis-matches. Int!\amural There was no stopping the Gar- CoUege Cross•Country Champion, boxing here is rigidly controlled. net in the playoff, as they quickly A.s a senior, Hoffman will be We use it to teach the art of self- jumped out to a commanding 10-& threatening his own records, and defense, allow no mis-matches lead and coasted on to victory, will certainly p:rovide a big boost and the use of face rnaslts is en- and the cbamu>ionship. Pittsfield for Ketz and his Hackmen. furced.\ finished second with a 4-3 record, In intermediate distance runs, Summed up Steitz O·f Spring- followed by Westover's 3-3 and senior E!mars Jurjevics will head f~eld ~o~le~e: \Injuries an~ pas- Schenectady's 1-5. Thi-s marked the Garnet contingent. Jurjevics 1 s!ble m]~r~e~-we use othel phy- the first time a Union team has holds the 880 yard run record ann 'srcal activities that . prod:'c';, the taken home a first place trophy was victorious in botll the 600 a.nd same results as boxmg dxd. from a YMCA tourney since the· 1000 yard runs ,in the IC4A indoor sp 0 rt was initiated four years ago. meet. --------------------~------------------- Stickmen To Play M.l. T. A Iter 6-4 TowsonShowtng 'The Garnet Stickmen, after a strong showing against Towson State College last Satu:rday, will face M.I.T., past Conference winner, at Cambridge; tomorrow. Over the Easter recess the la-<$>----------------- crosse team traveled south to Bal- Ain't It A Srt..ame timore and environs for scrim- ill mages against Loyola of Balti- FOOTBALL CANDIDATES All candidates, regardless of experience, who are inter- ested in becoming prospects for next fa:Il's varsity foot- ball team, are to rep<>rt i-:11 the Field House next Mon· day, Aprilllth at 7:45P.M . Wear gym or sweat clothes. I Become acquainted with the 1 new coach and the systeml which he intends to use. UNION PHARMACY more, Lafayette, and the Univer- The family of Vice President sitY. of Delaware. Coach Allison Richard M. Nixori, an unofficial felt thli.t \our trip to Baltimore but ardent branch of the Roy· gave us the type of pre-Season Sievers Fan Club, is unhappy· training which we have never had about the deaJ: that sent the before.\ Washington Senators' star to the \Drugs ancl \FiDe Ferool'DUIJlce'' Chicago 'White Sox. \ The only bright spot, according· Fountain Servrc:e\ In the. season opener the whole to 14-year-old Tricia Nixon, Is t}4at team gave a \fine debute per- Sievers is \still in· the Alnerlcan. FREE DIDLIVERY rectors, coaches, and athletic di- rectors of NCAA (college divi- sion) and NAIA schools in select- ing this year's honor role of \·best in small college ball\. Other include Tom Chappelle (Univer- sity of Maine),. Bill Soffa (Carne- choices from around the country gie Tech), Ed Smallwood <Evan& ville), Gene Denman (Al>ilene ·Ch.ristian), and Bernie Finlay <San Diego .State). Pelton Spa.rl>s Team John Pe!tc;m, sophomore guard, lecl the Garnet basketball squad in almost every conceivable de- part~ent during the 1959-60 sea- son which recently closed. The 5'10\ shal'p·shooter com- piled a 15.8 point per game aver- age, leading the team in both at- tempts and conversions. He also lei the Dutchmen in free throws attempted, scored, and foul shoot- ing percentage (79.1). Pelton saw act.ion in every period of Garnet basketball action. Pelton also bl'oke .!the sophomore scoring rec- Ol'd With 30() points for the ilea- son; set a two-year high single total (30), and was named to the Eastern Collegiate Athletic Conference All-East first team foi:\ the week of Febr.uary 21-27. All upperclassmen and fresh- men who are interested in parti- cipating on the golf team are re- quested to appear at Room 204, in the Psychology Laboratory; on Monday, April 11, at 2;45 P. M. . -Those Who Know Agree that it:S . Maurice B. Graubart & Sons, ·166 Jay Street, for the best in Jewelry. Serving Union students for 3 generations. formance,\ being highlighted by League, anyway, and I can .still. · R. Alan Bleser Jerry .ZJnut1ennan's sc'Oring .. three see him play when he comes t() ~~'. R~ .c)C. fift~ unassisted goals from his attack Washington.\ 600 Union St, FR 4-·3b05 l\mJ'6\ 1 l!J' \)Ull\ position, along with mid-fielder Siever Cun:fers With V.P. Reo~ nJA\S1.Jflll('l[I).C Eddie Reichert's one, wllich was Sievers and Nixon had a long .. 1 '=============::..! Ul\ ll 1 I Ul U\J also unassisted. Union goalie chat last July when they fiew t() ·• Outfield Viewed In the outfield Coach Law- rence has Dick Kranzmann in left field and Mike Semo in cen- ter. Right field remains a ques- tion mark as does third base, \I cannot say who will play right field and third base right now,\ said Lawrence as he looked around the field house. \It is too early to ma·ke definite position as- signments for right field and third base until we go outside on the diamond.\ Dan Grenning, a returnee from last season, and Harvey Hayden are being eyed for the outfield position with Johnny Pelton and Mike Evans vying for the starting nod at the all-impor- tant hot corner. Jerry Thurston js at second base, and roumling out the infield, Tom Delany is a utility first baseman. Friday Nite Till Nine NATURAL SHOULDER TROPICAL SUITS DEANSGATE brings·you the en· v;oi;Jie combinc.Hon of superb 55% \Docron\• polyester ond 45% worsted tropicals with authentic noturol· shoulder styling ot its best I $57.50 in the country for single game ·on the same plane and the vice-. ' john Campani, who was seventh the All-Star game in Pittsburgh ffi'\';;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;====================~=9i]l saves, with S(), and seventh in president encouraged the out- : AU RANT . total saves, with 167, was cred- fielder to aim at a job as a :Qla- . f.ER.RQ 'S . REST . I :Ball .. ., ited: with nine saves against Tow- jor-league manager. A month· Jill son. Coach Allison's, \our de- later Sievers went to Wasllington. · fense is sharp,\ C'Ommended the A s . ,. . . It ,. • A mer·can Food top defense work Qf Ed Buchwald, National irport to greet Nixon peCIG IZiftg ln Cf ICift• I Bob Fuller and Warren· Bagatelli. on .his triumiJhal return fr.Qm. Russia and Po-land. Towson State, located in what's \I was sorry to see 'him go,\ been termed. a \ho.t-bed\ of la-. said Nixon of the swa,p tha.t sent · crosse, had. a fine player in Ken Sievers to Chicago. Taylor, wllo sco1·ed four of their : Tricia says Roy has always six goals, been her favorite b!Uplayer be- UNION TOWSON o. 2 1 1---4 1 2 l ,2-6 . ·cause \he hits .nome runs and I. think he'..s cute.\ But she still will watch the Senators. Discount -for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking 01 6-9&.54 1115 Barrett St. 1599 UPPER UNION ST. 9:30-o P.M. Thurs. & Fri. till 9 P. M. ARTHUR CARL LAWRENCE -------------- \We will be a better hitting ball club with more power than last year,\ said the optimistic baseball mentor this week. With the warm weather on the way and the grass turning green again after a long, cold Winter, the Garnet nine has high hopes of getting out on the diamond by the beginning of next week. The team will have an O.P- portunity next Friday to show that the early-season predictions made by Coach Lawrence will prove to be true. • ------------- ----~---- This is the B-52. Advanced as it may be, this airplane has one thing in common with the first war- galleys of ancient Egypt ... and with 'the air and space vehicles of the future. Someone must chart its course. Someone must navigate it. For certain young men this pre- sents a career of real executive opportunity. Here, perhaps you will have the chance to master a profession full of meaning, excite- ment and rewards •• , as.. a N aviga- torin the U.S. Air Force. To qualify for Navigator train- ing as an Aviation Cadet you must be an A~erican citizen between 19 and 26~-single, healthy and in- telligent, A high school diploma is required, but some college is highly desirable, Successful completion of the training program leads to a commission as a Second Lieuten- ant.,. and your Navigator wings. If you think you have what it takes to measure up to the Avia- tion Cadet Program for Naviga- tor training, see your local Air Force Recruiter. Or clip and mail this coupon. There's a place for tomorrow's leaders on the AerospaceTeam. us Air ForCe r-----.-------, I MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY I I AVIATION CADET. INFORMATI!l. N I DEPT. SCL03A I BOX 7Gil8, WASHINGTO~I 4, D. c. I I .am between 19 and 261/2, a citizen I ofthe U.S. and a high school graduate I I wtth ____ years of college. Please I · send me detailed information on the 1 Aviation Cadet program, 1 I NAME I I STREET I I CITY I I COUNTY STATE_ I L---..-..-----.-----..J

Friday. April 8; l960 ' . _, Rushing . • • Faculty ... WR!VC Pi'cks· Great Decisions •••• , ably bolst<:lred American :rrestige ih the eyes of the uncommitted · nations, g:ood will tours in the (Continued from Page ll <Continued from PagP. ll should be re-ordered, so that the ing period. The freshmen will present number three, is .first. get to know us bettet•, and we The wording of that ad.vantage will get a better look at them.\ it:self should be changed from New Station Executives . \improving academic standing, to . On a queBt!On o.f freshman at- improving academic attitude.\ On Tuesday, March 15, WRUC ' 1 t?de to th~ defened proposa~ Dean 0. Edward Pollock advis- held its annu.al elections for new· rats~d by .. Ertan Bedna~z ?f Pst ed the fraternity members not to station officers. The newly rati- Upstlon '( They tal'e 1t m the take a prejudiced view of the fied WHUC Constitution provides back of th~ head. Huw hap.(Jy I proposal for it \represents con- for two new ·executive positions; will t~ey be?\> Co~en cited the siderabl~ work of a large number that of \General Manager and exteJ?-SlVP surveY:s of. thP P1e>dge uf .;tudcnt,.;, ancl warrants careful President\ and \Station.l\fanagcr Prestdent Counc1! wh1ch conclud- consideration.\ He felt as Pro- and 'Vice-President;\ to replace ed that most freshmen were un- fessor Harlow that \it has taken the ·previous .single office ·Of \Sta- satisfied with the present system a lot of cou;·age to bring this tion Manager.\ Elected to the and favor a change to defened. about.\ position ·of General Manager and · \Art Lawrence has also. kept data ;>1r. Pollock was \bothered by· President was James Reisman, '61, on t~e freshman reactton to our the immediate disruption of the of New Yorlr City, while Malcolm rushmg system and .~he results campus'' with which he was greet- Potter, '62, of Valhalla, New York, hold true m all classes Cohen re- ed this past September, and at- was elected to the post of Station ported. \We should make the tributed it all to the present sys- Manager and Vice-President. Also fraternity something. to he want- tem of rushing. He claims that elected were Rene Madura, '62, of ed, and not go runnmg to fresh of all the fresh.mcn that he has the Netherlands Antilles, as Per- even before .clas.:;;s start and say spoken with, none have favored sonnel Director, Charles Evans, 'hert> we nre Thts does not hrrt>d \ repetition of the rushing system '62, of South Orange, New Jersey, the good ~ralt'rmty n,l,<'n and they had just been through with. as Business Manager, Dudley M. brothct·s whiCh we need. He furthet· felt that \if we want Cate, '62, of Fairfield, Connecticut, In t·esponse to a statement that to clevPlop more school spirit we as Program Director, .and Gar- the deft>rr<•d plan wuuld P<'t\nllt must have eithet· delayed or de- don R. Rau::;e, '62, of Elmira, New tht' fn>slml<'~l a greatt•r ':pportun- ferr.:d rushing.\ He pointed out York, as Technical Director. ity to achten'. acadPmtc excel- that thP only alternative to one At the annual WRUC banquet lem:e. Arthur 0 Loughlm uf Delta se-mester defl'rment, is to make following the election .meeting, the Phi ,,B.'<' I l•·u \we h.t n· too many 1 t mid-semester. However this Dixon Ryan Fox. ·Memorial Award, turkt'Y\ lnl this campuH alt·t'ady.\ conflicts with the school calen- presented each year to the station As ''\P<'C'l<'<l. t'w rnot1on \'\.\ dur, and is thUB impossible. member who maintains the high-. tn.blt>d ~ 0 thnt th;· hoU.\'t' . prPst- Pollock \guarantee::;\ t:llat if the est standards ,of broadcasting and tlent_s. can preBl'nt tt to tllE'Ir ft·a- propoBal is pa.ssed, he \will plan is most conscientious in his ac- t<'·rt1lll<'< ht·for·· tho· llo<'<t TFC' ~uiilc function;:> fur the fre;hmen tivitie,; a.t \VRUC, was awarded 1 \'' tin.. 1u1 th~: flr.:;t pal'l uf the ticmcster, tu Duuley M. Cu:te, the re-elected (Continued from Page 2) ®----~---~--.-'~----·cause of world peace must in the ha:ve \\ee·n eng·ao·ed 1·n a px·ogram long run :prove· 1'neffectua:l in the · JJ \ · · • state.\ True, one consequence of Of fot .e;an econ· omi·c-aJ·d 1·n an ~f · absence of concrete policies and · .<;p· · y - • President Eisenhower's recent fort to prove that it is possible trip to. the Far East has been a deeds. ;I:n ::;hort, severa,l basic for a country to industralize rap- decision to substantially increase· .doctrines of American ·policy are l 'dly w;'·houl follnw1'ng the Sov1'et :provili!!! irrevelant or outdated. as ,,.. \' aid to India. But therE} has ·bffen ~ experience of the past fol.'ty years. no. indication of a willingness to we enter the 1960's, whil~ a num\ Yet our efforts in this vital area· re-examine the premise that the bl)r of difficu!:t .. prob~ettts;, · their- of forel ·g.n polJ'cy· cont1'nue to ·be .sol,ution long· ·defe.rred, will •.event- . \• ' develo.pment of Asia, Africa, ail.d ll .mi'ted by budg·eta y c·onst'dera .uany· have to be faced. The new · r · - LaUn Amerwa is primarily a: tl ·ons part1'cularly a bel1'ef that Preside.nt entrusted w:i.th reshap.- ~ · ·· task for private capital. we can exceed the 1954 tax rates . ing Ameri(lan global strategy will aut! lhe total Bptmding po.ssibl.e ,. Finwlly, w~ile ~he Pre>;ident's. find a lot of chick,en::; are .goi,ng under these rates, only at the· recent ·exerc1ses m g1obal per- ·to coirJ.e home to roost il!- the l'isk of becoming a •:gar1•ison sonal. diplomacy have unquesti011-. ·1960'.s. until they a1 ~ urgazuzed as u Program Director. The award 1 Conunillee Established du.,,, and \\\ plan tlttlir own sue- was pn:oented by Profc~~or Davit!, tal c:vents.\ ' K. Baker, the Station's advisee i· Tl~<\ (\'. ... ' r.q·:l.·•l h~· Tuc uuly ~t:'lluU:::; ubjeelloll to ~lunrue l3cnlon 7 XeW$ D1rectur of 1 tho· Stu•l··nt r .. ·\·' II · 11 it\' F. bni· tite Illedtanu.:s uf the plan was ::;tation \\'H.O\'V, wa::l the guest 1 :~ry ~ Ill•·· Iii'!.;: .... ·.·t j .. i·.·~y ''i'h 1 ,u~~tl IJ) l'rulessur Baker, who S]Jeaket· at the l.Janl!.ut!l which wa.; I lh•' TFC' to fttiih··l itn·.·,'i~·t:o· feels that after a whule semeste1· held at Hal., House. :tnt} lt'l 11 Ht ldl tlk lllol•:•·nl .... in- uf Jefenlnent, ·tht:! addittunal two ----o--- ht·! \ ::r ;!; t·h·· l'i•·~l'ftt ~ tl--hit.;, .~y · · - 1 · !·' b d - \\t•e!<B ul rU\'llll~ WUUu \Ull-· ()rator\-' Prize tl•!Jl .. ~hd It :y ti I ( r •. t r: t ! ' t ll•' I FC Jlt•ce.:·H:iHl'Y lll lllUclt llldlvidual J 1 <llllttltlf,\'•·ol fJ.d•l~tit\' (•1•· ... ,,],1,1 ... .._.._~.- ... cs. The Goodrich-Duane Spcaldng 1 '\'IU:d~t •. \\ 1 ,i,]J\,.\~~],.~,,~;tq:.- J L' • 1 [ 1 tl t\f Cv1•lc::.L, Ull t:Xtt.:nlporalll'OUS 1 useph r llll\.e ~t ... IIl ee ti Ia 1 tlll' (otl.l'l : • .~lf \f th. J.,:,.: r.::l the lUUlSllluil to a t..leferrt!d SY.b- ~iH:L't:'h cuntt..!;Jt, \\\ill be held on mitt•·e. At that tllll<', th•• muve tem can be made. and none of April 15 at 7:30 P.M. in room I \'·'\' :nt•·•]•1'o·:. ,J a· ., l•'.-11:1 of the dtffi<.;ultJe::; ::;e~:ut overwhelm- 106 uf the General Engineering widt>sptead di~app1 oval by both inc;, then ... the fraternities will building. Any Union College un- fratet niUt·s and flt·o'hlll<'ll w 1th ··merge again as a dynamic force dergraduate is eligible to com- the JH·esc•nt m:-;hing ::;y::;tt·m. at Union College.\ pete for the first prize of fifty At its fn·,.;t m•·ctmg on Fehnt- ,_ ---- dollars and the second prize of ary li. the commtttee drctdetl Pre-l!eo-iHiration thirty-five dollars to be awarded to study the who1t• problt•m of t\l on Prize Day. ru:ohing and tu mvc;:~tigate the Student.~ who do nut plan to On the evening of the contest possibility of change. In the event rptunl to L'nion in the fall with each contestant will draw three change was not considered feas- the exception uf th.ose who are topics and choose one of them ible, the pre,;ent system would be .>;raduating, pleaBe report to the for his speech. The topics will studied and improved upon. The r{c'!!istrar·s Office at your earliest ·be taken from items appearing M. John Lubetkin \deferred hid- convemence. in Time magazine issues of March ding-rarefied rushing plan\ was Students who wish to change 21 through April 11 inclusive. .M. discussed. \\'bile the committee their course of study should con- 8 P.M. th.e speakers will assemble was agreed-that fraternities would fer wtth Dean Huntley without for the contest, and each will pre- be able \to retain their independ- delny. sent a five minute speech. Each ence and integrity\ under the Lu- SchC>dules for students in the contestant will be allowed one bPtk!n proposal and that it held following cout'ses of study will be minute to ask about the subject certain advantages for freshmen mad,• in the Registrar's Office of another C{)ntestant's speech. as well, they neitht'r endorsed nor and nePd not report unless noti- Students Wh() are Interested in fied: competing are requested to sign r<'jected the plan. Four·ycar Civil, Electrical and up in the Student Activities of- By the !\1arch 8 meeting\ of tht' :\!~chanica! Engineers, Five-year fice on or before Wednesday, Student Counril. Co-Chairman men , Libernl Arts and Engineer- April 13. Steven Albl'rt was able to an- mgl should r<'port to their ad- ----o---- nounce that progress had been visers. Applications for all forms of made and a.~k\d that the Com- PresPnt Tf'rm 2 Industrial Ad- financial aid are now available mit tee be authoriz<>d to recom- ministration .Majors l Those who at the Off tee of Student Aid, Room m<'nd proposal,; to the student han' completed their Modern 5B, AJmmistration Bullding. Stu- body rathet· than continuf' merely •.anguage requirement should re- dents desiring renewal of aid as reporting on the proC'P£'dings of rort to ad\•bers to choose an elec- well as those seeking an original meetings. Th~ Comwil pa.,Hed tive. grant of assistance must submit Albert's motion with one descend- Pre~<·nt Term 2 Chemistry Ma- applications. In addition to schol- ing vote. jars (Those who have completed arships, applJcations must be filed Me:~nwhile. th<' Joint Commit- their Gt>rman requirement should for Grant-in-Aids, board jobs, t<'!', nft••r dPlving dPeply into· rt'port to their advise1·s to choose room jobs, concessions and loans. many aspects of rushing, an- an elective>. Application!l ror aid must be sub- nouncPd that they favored the All other students should re- mitte<l no Ia ter than May 1st. principle of deferred rushing pro· put·t for Preparation of Sched- viding- that a suitahle ><y><tem ules as follows: Advertisement roulrl hP d~\·i•<'ri for i'nion ' Th'f' P1·~•Pnl ~ophomorps and Jun- C'ommitteP sturliPd the Pfieffer iors- hPtween Monday, April 25 propo!'al at 'i!R WPPkly mPPting!' and Friday. May 6. AI'JJ-:;<~;T!Uli. l'ltE ~IE!JS FOR S.\Lt:: Ri•erwer :l!inosc·uo>e \\ ith Zt-i~~ lnuot ular attat·hJJll·nt Ex,·el- )e,,t ,.,lrJditlHtl Four !PTJ~P~. me~ t·halllt·al sta,ge. light an<l <'ase. $37j. J. l1Ptby, :1473.A Stanley St., ~luu~ frPal ('awula point by point nnd decidPd at it;; Present Freshmen \- between April '4 mPPting- to rPcommcnd its :\1onday. May 9 and Friday, May :1doption to the IFC. 13. 4 qgm 2 d. 4 •• • - ... ~.~:- .~,_.y:~>· ~ ·.,; ..... .... /~ ~ ~: .... ~ .. ' .. .. • IT~s A GREAT FEELING To Wear An Arrow Sport Shirt . ~, . . ., Adding a bit of dash to the campos scene are these traditional sport shirts that boqst easy good looks, lasting comfort. Fine \Sanforized\ fabrics enhanced with Arrow's authentic buttondown collar. Carefully tailored in pullover style, $4.25, and regular models, $4.00. -.-ARROW-- Wherever you go • , • you look better in an Arrow sltitt ·=··· _.. • a ... 11 •au 1 8 ··- WHAT D'YA HEAR IN THE BEST OF CIRCLES ? a r , II • Your serve? Serve Schaefer, the beer with the smooth round taste ... nev-er sharp, never flat. Man, that's beer ... REAL BEER! It's America's Oldest Lager Beer. THE .F. &M. SCHAEFE'R BREWING CO., NEW YORK and ALBANY, N.Y. u.:s •• ·Segregc 'VO'L. 89, 1 AFR~ Cur1 Is The Fac Tuesday, :P. endorse lit. new Ah· l gram at U: of a natior modifying cuniculum and univer the countr: Starting r. will [}ffer a of .Air Fore< man and sor a:lso .req uirh courses as I Upperclassm will take courses whic those presen instructors. oratory wiil four year ·pr per week. head of the Union, state result in a of the curri program.\ Enrol There are f-or·the chan ·gram. Witl ten years tl program is • approximate: qadets. In I lege, the pr fectively in cCOUTSes WitlJ 1um. By .courses for the student the reductio: by taking course with a professor in his field. N!lture J{)f In the fi freshman Y< course in m nattll'al or s< ties; or for• quired alon~ leadership During seco1 densed cour! be gi.ven. Tl week will ~ .air power; .ence; and l In the s training the be a conden Jng with ele :tare; evolut of air fC>rce tions. The rollmen t. -in matics; phy: ial sciences; eign langua~ Poll T( Ideal I \The Gtlrl v will· be cho: on the basl which will b in selecting .Honor and J The poll, the vitai st ''Union Look questions to their decisio: will be able figure in the \llensational rugged, ent hot.\ Legil will legs, piano toes, hea~ knock knee! kles, while the ·catl;l'gocl! hook, banal or pug. Ideal pe1 .chosen by s ;ger, heart :.serious, wall ;passiona.te. \:Her ·capac weekeiJd) : r woOd' alcoh<t votl)ta, light· 'l;'he p<>ll w er the ''The ' Look;' shoul· poSsess othe: eaitSe of till.• journalistic • fled here,

. ' ______,_ in the the in the ies and basic are as anum\ · th.eir- •.event- new .resha:p- will e .goi,ng in the ste u.:s, A. ·Segreqation 'VO'L. 89, No. 21 • • tS Founded at Union College in 1877 - . . . SICH:ENE'CTADI'f. N. v .. FRI 1 D'AY, A:PR'I'L rs, 1960 South African Riots Page 5 PRICE TEN CENt'S Silber Accepts Post At Buffalo

Friday, April 1'5, 1960 o\l}'IOEDZN./1. ' I cl /(( ~ 'fi).... • . Governor Vandiver;s Bill \l.Jtnurnr · ~ .u trusts ?l ~~ An Appeal For Liberty ~N4CTJ.Di·tl By Kenneth ~. Hoyt Published Fridays during the Eldltorial Office, Wa.shburn Hall, school year by the :;ltudent\ Body Union College, Publication Of- or Union College, SchenectadY, flee, The GazMte Press, 334 N. Y. Na.tlona.l Advertising Rep- State St. Entered in the Sch~- rasentatlve: National Advertls- nectady Post Office as Second lng Service, lno., College Pub- Class Mail ~ratter, subscription llshers Representative, 420 Mad- JOe a copy ; $2 a year delivered ison Ave., N. Y. C. anywhere in the United States. SENIOR B6ARD ROBERT J. GALVIN '61 .... , , . , .. Dl 6-2048 •........•. Editor-in-Chief . PETER J. S'fEINGLASS '60 ...... DI 6-7149 .......... Editor Emeritus HARRY L. RUBIN '61 ..•••• , .••• DI 6-9959 •..••.•• Bu~iness Manager PAUL L, WOLLMAN '60 ......... EX 3-0794 ......... ;\lanaging l!~ditor As a result of the non-violent it has the same overtones which sit-in demonstrations which swept are usually found in anti-Ameri- the South during February, Gov- can propaganda pieces. It did erno1' Vandiver of Georgia signed not sound like .ft was prepared a bill which made it a misde- by any Georgia school or college; meanor for persons to refuse to nor, in fact, did it read like it leave an establish.memt when ask- was written even in this coun- ed to do so by the propi'ietor. In try, This !'eft-wing statement is doing so, the white leadership of calculated to breed dissatisfac- the State of Georgia declared its tion, discontent, discord, and Intention to use the methods of evil.\ LESLIE D. MARRUS '62 , . , . , , • , , DI 6-9959 •. , ....•..... Sports Editor RONALD E. DR US IN '62 .•....... DI 6-9959 ...••........• News Elditor LAWRENCE H. LENTCHNER '62. DI 6-9723 •...••.•.. Features Editor JUNIOR BOARD Mark Krugman '60 .. , .............•. , , .. , • , , ....... Photography Editor massive ·resistance to thwart the \Let it be fu.rther noted that new and spontaneous efforts of white taxpayers are paying over the Georgia Negro to gain equail- 80 percent of the bill for Negro ity under the .!aw. A week later students in Georgia.\ student leaders fr>om six affiliated Geo·rgilans Are Proud Stuart Cohen '61 .. , •.. , , ...•.... , , , , .... !\'ational Ad\·ertising Manager Louis A belove '62 ..•• , . , •• , , , •..•.••.... , •...••.. , , Circulation Manager Mark Handelman '62 •... , •.. , . , . , , . , • , , , ... , .• , , •..• , Exchange Editor Douglass Allen '63 . , , . , , , .. , , , ........ , , ...... , .. , Assi8tant News Editor David Thurston '63 • , , , , ........... , .......... , . , Assistant Sports Editor John Baer '62 .................... , ........••.....•..•..•..• Copy Editor institutions which from the At- lanta University Center printed a full page newspaper advertise- ment \An Appeal for Human Rights.\ In so doing, they d-e- clared their intention of counter- conco ·rdy End· ·orses ·. Gross ing massive resistance with every \· legal and non-violent means at their disposal, The position of Student Body President is the most responsible one in student government at Union. As pre- Students Wish Speed siding officer of the student council, the only truly repre- believe to be the \American way of life\. In the best tra- \. · · :rhe students who instigate d 1 and participate in these sitdown sentative organ of student government, the Student Bo y dition of the seventeenth century New Eng and witch- protests are dissatisfied not only President must, in any year, be an individual of excep- hunts and bookburners, the Mindszenty group is prepa:r- with the existing conditions, but tiona! ability and deep motivation. · ing itself to strike out in the irresponsible manner of their with the snail-like speed at which 1961 is a year of decision. For with the recent awak- spiritual idol Joe McCarthy. they are being ameliorated · · · d l\ ff C th h U · d S We do not ihtend to wait placidly ening of student opinion and awareness this semester an 1C ar y, w o mte tates Senator Barry Gold- for those rights which are already the introduction of the controversal issues now before water has called \a vicious political bully,\ appointed him- legally and morally ours to .be the student body, the 1961 Council will demand strong self as defender of the American public political morals meted out to us one at a time\ and progressive leadership. for the conspicuously un-American purpose of furthering \ ... It is unfortunate that the Gary Gross can furnish this leadership. With his ex- his own political career. In point of fact, the only subver- Negro is being forced to fight, in any way, fot• what is due him perience as Vice-President of the Junior Class and Chair- sive individual McCarthy ever exposed was himself. In and is freely accorded other Am- man of this year's Undergraduate Alumni Fund Commit- spite of several rather ambitious promises, McCarthy was ericans .... It is to be regretted tee, Gross has a distinguished political background. As unable to reveal a single communist in the government. that there are those who still re- Chairman of the Junior Prom Committee, Gross has shown He did, however, in a series of last ditch efforts to salvage fuse to recognize the overriding that he has the courage and integrity to provide the en- his own political career succeed in ruining the careers supremacy of the federal law.\ \ ... The time has come for the lightened leadership essential for a strong and cohesive and reputations of several innocent persons, such as the people of Atlanta and Georgia student government. For these reasons, the Concordiensis famous Mrs. Annie Lee Moss. . .. to sfop believing those who endorses Gary Gross for the position of President of the Such recklessly fanatic action is equally indefensable tell us that everything is fine and Student Body. whether it is performed to further one's own political equal, and that the Negro is hap- A Laudable Precedent PY and satisfied/' career or whether it is undertaken in the guise of respon- \ ... <:>ur churches which are sibility under the name of a great religious leader. ordained by God and claim to 'be Ironically, as is so often the case with mis-directed the houses of !Lll people, foster The unique custom in the United States of not empha- political neophytes, the Mindszenty Study Group, in addi- segregation of the races to the sizing student reaction to crisis has been wounded. The tion to challenging the civil liberties and basic constitu- point of making sunday the most segl.'egated day of the week.\ recent protestations by nationwide student bodies has tiona! freedoms of our nation is unwittingly aiding the The same day that the student helped to fill a void which has been present in American c:ause of international communism. We would expect the appeal appeared in the newspap- politics for over 25 years. In the aftermath of over a Siena group to be among the first to realise that the ers, Governor Vandiver issued ·a month of demonstrations, the movement might certainly breakdown of civil liberties is one of the highest goals of statement regarding the appeal which is typical of the logic used be termed the most all encompasing student act of this the communist conspiracy. by the advocates of continued rae- generation. To raise the classical question that has confronted iai inequality. · \All Georgians reject the im- plication and chal'ge that our capital city and our state is a land of inequality and injustice.\ \In Atlanta, Georgia, there are more Negro property owners, more ban[{ers, m(lre insurance ·ex- ecutrves,.more doctors, more law- yers, more real estate concerns, and more Negro teachers and more colleges than in ·city on the face of the earth.\ ' S.everal months prior to these statements, Mr. BU11kY Joye 'Of the University of South Carolina delivered to the 12th National Student Congress an elaboration of that state's reasons for being opposed to further intervention in the internal affairs of a state which claimed to give optimum treatment to the Negroes residing there. Bigotry Ou~ide South \Racial differences did not or- iginate in nor are they confined to the South. In Nehru's India there -is more caste, race and re- ligious prejudice than a!lywhere in the world. Racial differences of the Israelites and Arabs are threatening world peace. The Catholics· in the Scandinavian countries suffers the same dif- ficulty as the non-Catholic ih Spain or some of our Latin-Amer- ican countries. In this country on the West Coast there is the Chinese and Japane,se problem. Last y-ear in Florida a white fam- ily was promptly ousted from a colored neighborhood by Negroes who did not d_ysire white neigh- bor,, Billy Gi'E~:ham reports . . . that wherever he found a differ- ence in race he found a pro>blem.\ '\For the Negro, South Carolina is a state of opportunity. There are colored leaders with their own insurance companies, bus lines, (Continued on Page 5) The C'oncordy has presented in this issue a resume civilised man since the first appearance of all-seeing, all-· \The ·statement was skillfully of the incidents that have ushered forth from various knowing, all-wise vigilante groups: \Who will protect the prepared. Obviously it was not campuses and the implication that may be drawn from protectors?\ written by students. Regrettably, them. It is hoped that the student will fully acquaint We remind our student colleagues at Siena that the ; 5 --:C;;--O;;-;T~. 1 ;-:;A:JN~O;uW\J----;:==================== himself with the situation, for it is his movement and he shameful esta:blishment of their super-patriotic study THRU WED ----- • ..._,..._ will be judged on it collectively. group will_ do nothing to enhance the reputation of Siena ART THEATRE 2 BIG HITS · -·-· ·--· As stated in a March 11 Concordiensis editorial, the as an institution of higher education. Student Council protest, which was telegramed to Sena- Th JPhen In New York VisitC!rQipp tors Gore;, Kefauver, and lVfayor West was a \laudable The Age of Enlightenm·ent e stage sensation 14 E. 44th St •• New York 17, N.Y. precedent. A stronger stand has been asked for, and, ' iS On the SCreen! MUrray Hill 7-0850 with the pass~ge of the Ra'cia~ ~quality motion i}'l . ~he · The election of Leo Dunn as President of the Inter- Stu den~ Council last Tuesda;y, It IS a strong poss1b1hty Fmtemity Council and the recent awakening of the Stu- that this may become a reahty. . dent Council under Edward Ruth brings forcefully to light It must be warned, _however, that a movement IS_ of the unavoidable conclusion that a new era of student gov- no . value as a se_lf entity. The . football demonstration emment has begun at Union. After years of apathy and wh1rh took place. m the. late fall IS a ~lear example of a relative inaction, the student body, through its elected student protestatiOn which existed _fm Itself alone. . representatives, is educating itself to deal with contro- It has been show~ that ~he voice of a student \:11~ be versal issues and national problems. heard. If the student IS well-mformed and has an opmwn, S . . . . . . it is his duty to state it. Should he, however wish to hop . _o ll}arked IS this trend, and so promismg are 1ts on the bandstand, he should note that a baton wielder ramifications that an ~nalogy can be cle~rly drawn. In must have a competent knowledge of orchestration the early yem·s of_ th!s cen~u_ry, .the Umted _States be- . latedly came to reahse 1ts position m world affairs and the A Long Term Proposal influence which this position implied in international events. Isolation and indifference slowly crumbled as it The Plan for Deferred Rushing at Union, 1960 _ 61 , has in the area of student government at Union in recent months. will be voted on by the Inter Fraternity Council at its * meeting on Tuesday night, April 19. Often referred to as . the \Pfeiffer\ plan because it was originally drafted by Th~ react1on of .one segme!lt .of the .cal'!!-pus to this Robert Pfeiffer, '61, the plan is the worl{ of the Inter awakemng~ however .Is suspect m Its motlvatw_n. F~atemity Council-Student Council Joint Rushing Corn- As Ba1le~ C~p h:t?e approaches, t~e expe~1ence~ stu- mittee~ After studying the feasibility of every aspect of dentobservet easily d1scer~s abl?~S?mmg of bb~rahty. on several pr0posed rushing systems including the present the part o~ some of ~h~ Semor politicians and their Iackie~. system of immediate rushing, the Committee unanimously Reactionary politiCs ar~ as o.~t of style as the archi- recommended the adoption of the \Pfeiffer\ plan. ~ecture of 1811. I~~tead, ,~r1es of I wa,s for d~ferred rush- The entire deferred rushing proposal was published mg all, the time. and. Of course I m agamst stud.ent in last week's Concordy. Accompanying the plan was a apathy are heard echomg across the campus from Bailey summary of the main advantages of such a system in Hall to ~he Rathskellar. . . . general, and the specific applications of the \Pfeiffer\ While t.he a¥'e .of pol~bcal enhght~n:n:ent has been plan at Unjon in parficular. Suppliments to the proposal somewhat tardy m. 1t.s arnval, ~nd while Its su~se9uent revealed what measures fraternities could take to avoid effect ?n these Sem01 s was particular!~ delayed, 1t IS en- the fin~nci~l loss heretofore associated with rushing. Fur- couragmg t.h~t even these ~oldouts agamst_ pro~ress haye t.her editonal comment pointed out that an adequate social been prosehtised-a sure s1g~ t~at th~ legislative. renais- hfe for freshmen, more effective enforcement of rushing sance has the whole campus m 1ts enhghtened grip. ruls and a strengthened fraternity ,system were all inher- In any event, the Bailey Cup race has begun. ent in the \Pfeiffer\ plan. It is vitally imp0rtant to remember that The Plan for Deferred Rushing is a long term proposal and must be viewed in that light. All students are urged to think WRUf; will bt·oadcast Tuesday night's IFC meeting at which the deferred rushing plan will be considered. Right Under Our Noses In our last issue on April 8, Concordy political analyst D?nald MacDonald exposed the super-patriotic Cardinal ~mdszenty Study <;;roup, now running loose on the nearby Siena campus. This reckless band of vigilantes has ap- pointed itself as the public guardian of what these people Advertisement ;.! 11111111111111111111! !IIi lilllllllllllllllll 1.!: ~ KIRCHGASSERi - - - - = f = = or s = = ~ STUDENT ~ - - ~ COUNCIL ~ ~ PRESIDENT ~ - - - - - - ?.•111111111 n llllllllllllllllllllllltnlm.n ~ All students who want a 2-S student deferment from their draft b'Oards should have 'the Col- lege submit Selective Service Sys- tem Form No. 109 to their local boards at the end of the college year. However, the College can- not do this unless the student specifically requests it. There- fore, you must report to Student Activities in Washburn Hall and fill out this request fot•m prior to the end of the term in May. All sE;niors · w'ho intend to en- ter graduate school next fall and who wiil need a deferment to com-plete their studies must also request that this form be sub- mitted. .. ...... , .. WARNER BROS. OTAIIINO RJCIUIRP ClAIRE BIIR.TON BlOOM MARM\URE. .,._Ill/olE EDITH EVANS•GNlY JIAYMONo-•-\'\' .., .... lf.at'tOSiallf[ I ....... IWf~ I Cidf ..... ..,..,. 2 B'I'G HIT'S \Undenialaly funny!\-:~· '('11m ME.RRlMAN 'ENGRAVING CO. •Photo. Engravers• 160 L.AFAVETTE ST. \Where Chapel meets Lafayette• FRanklin 2.-0501 L. G. BALFOUR 00 •. C.A:RL ~O·REN'SEN BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEWELB.Y LEATHER GIFI'S STATIONERY ~ PRoGRAMS OLUB PINS • KEYS MEDAI.S- TROPHIES Write or Call Fraternity Jewelers 171 Marshall St., Syracuse, N.Y. Phone Granite 5-7837 ,·-·------------------.;,. ___ .,. _______________________________ .,. _______________ 4 PARK FLORIST Call FR 4-9713 f6r Your Corsage I I Open 1;1 II o'Ciocl ' . t•·--------·-M·-----------------------·--- ... -- --- .... ~-----------------;, ........... .. 20cyo Discount· 126 S. Brandywine Ave. Fri~qy. fJ, The folio shOOt cant recent STU South,. and ary rea,ctio dents tnvol TALLA:1 March 12- Followlnl demonstrat ga.S to bre the campu ward the Twenty-nii1 studenl:i! w sit~in dern dhne store arrests, Ne era! more ' 011e tim.e ce de;nts was and ~gry The Negro and regrot Florida's C instructed , fine the st in an effor1 seri<itls dis• M~ohl4- The 35 s: ed innoceni ing the pee Ma.rch 1g...,.. Ellev:en ;r- 35 arrestee charges of an4 fined : Eight of chose the j lambs. \T. felt by pet fiably, and those who ships to off ficial lamb. PETER! February .2 140 Negr body High State CoUe1 ersburg, 'V~ topk all av: ed library zines and Police said derly. The Governor kansas is c enigmas. socio-econ·oi stand with, of most lil party. Yet who delibe: crisis in Li Governor in the Oze kansas wh and destitt everyday P• father is ~ fire-breathi the old sch• old when wealth Col College waf 1st-front aj Arkansas · graduatio·n ed in the fc of the PaCi period in o activity wa This •backg Faubus' po. of the eco dictable co: To under must reali2 cident was bigotry ah great role; was and is white labor who are afi job compet created we: ered their motivating And of COl the bigots men who s tute work among thE use them f gain. Orval F these emoti National \fighting tr. had dared invaders. portunism Orval Faul: Governor : the closest Since the nln,gs B:ryE man who pendent UJ him in po' one cl\isis · fails to eJi His favol ''pl.'otector • life.\ It w scored hiS 1}m:ph, Cle macy of : mount to e well as in \ .his 1

'5, 1960 which It did prepared college; like it is coun- is and that over Negro the 1m- our is a are owners, ·ex- law- oncerrts, and on the these 'Of tiona! boration being ntion in a st!j.te residing not or- India and re- are The dif- ih country is the faro- from a Negroes neigh- ... differ- There eir own lines, 5) 7, N.Y. Fri~qy, Apri115, 1960 ~~~~----------~~~~------~------~~--~~--------~~--~---~ Dateline U~S.A. Student Reaction 3 ADVERTISEMENT Tlte following chl•oJWlo·g'~ f~~Wt : utes >before the regular closin,g March 2 1 1960 . cided to return to school en Mon-. sheet contains ~~st all '()-:f the · ti'Il)e and City Manager Roy F. More than 700 students pledged day, Mal'ch 14, for at least a weelt, recent STU])ENT reactions in· the Ash said the librar-y would re- to quit school if any of the 35 perhaps two, before resuming South,. and in. some cases secoJ!.d- , main closed uri til the City Coun- engaged in the sit-in were ex- their walkout. Their decision was PETE ,SJEINGLAS,S LOO'KS ary rea,ctions to those Of tlLe sttJ.- , cil considered the matter. There pelled. based upon the fact that an Ala- dents tnvolved. were no arrests. . March 3 , 1960 hama Teachers Association meet- --- Miarcll. 7-Mol)day Governor John Patterson of ing wi11 be held on their campus TALLA:HASSEE, FLORIDA Eleven Negroes .wer.e arrested Alabama, relenting somewhat on March 16, 17, and 18. March 1~turday ;in the Petersburg public .library his original threat, ordered the ATLANTA, GEORGJ:A Follmving a day-long series of •under a new ordinance ,passed on ex:pulsioil of nine so-called 'lead~ As a result or non-violent sit- demonstrations, police use(! .tear March 1 prohibiti:Qg any person el's' involved in the February 25 · in demonstrations In either states, ga.S to brea~k up a !!Ilarch fl'Om from remaining on city property sit-in. Governor Vandiver of Alaiba.tna the campus of Florida A&M to- after they are asked to leave. ~ 7 , 19 6 0 signed a bill in .late February ward the center of the town. March 8-Tuesday 3,00Q Montgomery Negroes, which made It a misdemeanor for Twenty-nine Negro and six white l!'ive of tho~e arres~ed refused. mostly students, ·on their way to persons to ·refuse to leave an es- students were arrested dudng a ·hall and remamed .in ]all. Seven the state Capitol, to stage an- tablishment when .asked to do so sit~in demonstration ht a local 'others. posted bond and were xe- other demonstration, were met by by the proprietor. This bill af· dfme store. Foltowing the first leased. a group of some ~0,000 white citi- .fects the entire state of Georgia. arrests, Negro .students held sev- March 14-Monday zeus~ Police l;lroke up the white The passage of the bill, as s.tated eral more demonstrations a.nd at · The· eleven Negro students were mob and sent the Negroes back In several Southern newspapers, o11e tim.e ca group of Negro stu\ ·conv~cted. . . . . . before any violence occurred. No was a direct \hit\ at the slt-in de:nts was ll,:let by 85 white men , Thnteen students ~lied ~mt W'lth demonstratiqn took place. movement. and aiJ.gry words were exchanged. . the Federal court l.n Rlchmon~ March 8, 1960 MOOlday, Feb. 29 . The Negro students turned back . asking. an end. t'O Petersb.urg h- f' 1 h t b t Th t h Alabama State College students Georgia's 1rst unc coun er a.n d regrou,ped· later in the d.ay. · .. rary segrega lOU. . e .. cl Y . as ed . 21 d t th t staged a non-violent and orderly demonstration was stag ' m a Florida's Gover:no.:r Leroy 'DOllins · · ays 0 answer · e .lnJunc lon. protest demonstration on the col- downtown Atlanta department instructed college officials to con- . MONTGOMERY ALABAMA lege campus. As the group. of store. Seven male Negro stu- ~ine the students to t~~ ca:t;npus ,Februa.ry 25, 1960 ' nearly 600 students and faculty dents, accompanied by a white m ~n .!'ffo,rt to head off lmm~~ent · Thilty-five students f.rom Ala- members prepared to walk to the youth attempted to enter the base- se!Jous disorder and danger. :bama State College for Negroes State Capitol, 30 students and one ment grill at Rich's departnlent March, 1 4--Monday . In ·Montgomery, .Alabama, staged faculty member were arrested on stoz·e. The g1•oup was told the o:r:he 35 students arrested .plead, . a non-violent sit-in at a court- charges of disorderly conduct and store had separate facilities for , ?& mnocent to charges of d1sturb\ house lunch counter. disobeying an .officer. Negroes next door. The students mg the peace: . Governor John Patterson threat- March 9, 1960 talked with the general manager Ma.rch ll!-.·Fl'lday ened the students involved in the Police set up a cordon around for about 15 minutes and then Ellev:en ;Negro stude!lts, of the sit-in with expulsion ~rom Col- Alabama State College in an \at- left. The white student <:!aimed 35 arrested, .. were. convicted on :rege. He also threatened to close· tempt to prevent further demon- that he and his friends (pre.sum· charg~s of disturbmg the Pe.a~e the College ff any more demon- strations.\ P•ollce CllliiTied tear ably Negro) had received service an4 fmed $300 or 60 days ·In Jail. strations were 'held gas and subma.chine guns. at the same store the S'aturday Eight of. tpe students con~ic~d .·Februa.ry 26, 1960 · Today was the last day for reg- before. A store vice-president chose th~ Jail ~erms, as sacnflcial Students, de!Xlanding racial istration for the Spring Quarter .confirmed this and said' the in- lambs. The Impact ?an onl.Y b.e equality, staged another .protest at Alabama State College, how- cident took place near closing f?lt by people suffermg UnJu:'tJ- demon,stration, answering Gov- ever, President H. Council Tren- time. flably, and we are encour-agmg , ernor· Patterson's tnreats with a holm announced that he would Tue~ay, March 8 those who can un·dergo tl!e hardc promise they would seek to en- extend registration through Negro university students from spi_Ps to offE);, themselves as sacri- roll at state-supported white col- Thursday. throughout Atlanta pledged their ficlal lambs, leges like Aubu!\n. 1\lareh 10, 1960 support of passive sitdown strikes PETERSBURG, VIRGINIA 1\btrch 1, 1960 Governor Patterson and state to protest segregation and decid- Februa.ry .27---'Saturda.y More than 1,000 Negro students. official13 have tl;lreatened to close ed they will use \every legal and 140 Negro students from Pea- from Alabama State College the college if students do not •reg- non-violent means\ here to gain body High School and VIrginia marched from the campus to the ister. Governor Patterson ordered \full citizenship rights.\ State College walked into the Pet- steps of the State Capito! build- a full ('nvestigation of the College Wednesday, March 9 ersburg, 'Va., public library. They. ing for a giant rally protesting befure deciding whether to close Governor Vandiver crlti<llzed topk all available seats and roam- ~he threatened expulsions for the tb.e school or not. the \Appeal for Human Rights\ ed library aisles, reading maga\ 35 students involved in the sit- March 11, 1960 declaration of students. He term- zines and checking boe>k titles. clown. At the Capitol they sang Word was received from Mr. ed the declaration \a left wing Police said the students were or- the .,_National Anthem and the Bernard Lee that the Alabama statement ... calculated to breed derly. The library ·closed 1& min- Lord's Prayer. State College students ha<l. de- (Continued on Page S) Favourite Soh ELECT AT For those few die-hard souls who, in this age of sci- ence and the organization :nmn, insist upon gazing at the world through the star~ studded eyes of the roman- tic, the April 18 issue of LIFE may well prove to be a traumatic experience. For although several of the arti- cles in this week's LIFE deal with the neutral topics of primaries, \apartheid etc., the Editors appear bent upon proving to the skeptic that in our present world, there is no room for the romantic soul and any attempts at this fine old 19th century tradition can only end in pretty foolish failure. LIFE~s Gamble We begin of course, with two of the most flagrant violators of m~dern prag-matism, Sweet Gamble and Noble Andrei. For after weeks of hectic evasions, b~ttles with in-laws and touching love notes written on toilet paper, The Southern Hope !By J)'onald 1\lla(JDonald JOHN G. CROMMELIN \The Whi-f1eman's Candidate 11 to the · these now famous love birds have successfully eloped. In the old days perhaps they would have used a broken !ad~ der and a forged birth cirtificate, now ther feel an obliga- tion to their adoring public and have gracwusly consented Governor Orval Faubus 1>f Ar- mongrolization of the South.\ He kansas is one of America's great walked off with over 70 percent enigmas. On most ·present day of .the. vote in a three-candidate socio-economic issues, he takes his election. stand with, or even to the \left\ Fa.ubm partisans insist that of most liberal members of his their man may one <lay take his party. Yet this is the same man place with the other great lib- who deliberately precipitated the erals in America, Truman. Roose- crisis in Little Rock in 1957. velt, Bryan, LaFollette. They Governor Faubus grew up deep point to his wark in the .field of in the Ozark Mountains of Ax- education and higher teacher sal- kansas where grinding poverty ades. Of course there are the and destitution were one- 1>f the cynics who ask, \Who's educa.- everyday problems of living. His tion ?\ but in ArklCLnsas they don't father is still 'remembered as a VGte anyway. fire-breathing socialist' orator of Ge>vernor Faubus has always the old school. ~Orval was 2() years defended unions. He !tilled a ibtJl old when he attended Cmnmon- in 1959 which would have made wealth College. Commonwe!!-lth unions subject to civil suits. Mr. College was part of the Conl.mun- · Faubus oiten warned manufac- ist-front apparatus Qperatlng in turers that he will •not tolerate Arkansas in the 1930's. Upol). sub-standard wages .or poor graduatio·n .train college, !he work- working conditions in .Arkansas. ed in the forests and on· the docks of the Pacific Ooast states at fuat To attempt to find a pattern, period in our history when leftist a political philosophy, or any con- sistency at all in the :maneuvers activity was serious in this area. b t •t f This •backgroUnd makes Governor ·of Orval Fau us, is 0 invi e rus- tration. Yet this man will con- Fau:bus' position il). the left wing trol a sizeable number of elec• of the economic picture a. pre- . toral votes in November. If the dictable consequence. two major candidates run dose To understand Little Rock, one an·d one does not get a majority must realize that this tragic in- JA. 1 cident was not the result of blind: of lllectoral votes, then \\e e eo- bigotry al'Dne. Fear pla)'\ed a tion goes to the House of Repre- t sentatlves. By law tl!e House great role as well, The ft;ar tha .must ehoose one of the top three was and is being felt •by the pool' contenders. ·Governor Orval Faa- white laboring class in the South, bus could possibly be that man. who are afraid of the tremendous · UNITED STATES. SENATE As your senator I will ATTA'CK and EXPOSE the Anti-. Defamation League of 1 B'nai B'rith (ADLh the mQiarial- mosquito of integration and real hidden enemy of White· Christian Alabamians. THIS MU'ST BE DONE. The ADL Call jew) is the mosquito; the NMCP (iew c:on· trolled negro} is 'the germ. Your vote and influence will be deeply appreciated. Subject to Democratic Primaries May 3 and 31, 1960. Hqrs. Box 441, Wetumpka, Ala. [Pcj: Pol. Ad. by John G. Crommelin) · CAN THIS BE THE U.S.A.? Antl·Negro and anti-Jewish prejudice in poster is provided by John G. Crommelin, the \whiteman's candidate\ in Birmjngham, Ala. For AllY our Paint and Hardware Needs See Us CAPITOL PAINT & HARDWARE CO. 730 STATE 'ST. Phone FR 4-4123 r------------------~-1 I LUIGI'S I I R~:.~~.~~~~~T I Halian-American food I 1125 BARRETI ST. Schenectady 01 6-9744 110% Discount to Union Men 1 Enioy Our . l Sizzling Steaks and CJtops ~----~---------~-~ job Mmpetitl:on which Wl;liild be ,........, __ .,..,_,..,_..,......,..,....,_,,_.,_..,_..., _ _. ______ ! created were the Negroes eonsid- to give LIFE the exclusive coverage of the wedding. An~ so we can picture the loving threesome, Gamble, AndreJ, and an ever-faithful and on the job LIFE photographer forever bonded in nuptial bliss. That all is not quite right an,d in keeping with the de- signs of the confirmed romantic can immediately be seen on LIFE's cover, a touching, but just too pasty shot of the newly-weds. And in the candidly posed pktures in- side the magazine of the playful horseplay and hou~e­ keeping experience that the young couple engages m, which are just a little bit ridiculous. One can even see a slightly embarrassed loo1{ on the faces of the newly-weds as they seem to realize that their silly little romance is completely incongruous with the top billing that LIFE l1as given it, perhaps on the assumption that for the LIFE reader, the happy ending, no matte1· how childish the cir- cumstances, is still the most important news of the week. The Artificial Eye If your not yet sufficiently discouraged by the Gam- ble and Andrei story, you can turn to an extensive article that LIFE has devoted to proving that \natural beauty\ in the American female is a thing of the past. For what can the Romantic say who glows lovingly about the allur- ing charms of his favorite female and looks adoringly into .her eyes only to discover, as LIFE helpfully points out, that he is actually gazing at a synthetic, conglomerated mess of paints and glues and ''false:• everything. L~FE carefully describes the range and pal'hculars of the devices women are currently using for their eyes and quite frankly, it's a most disillusioning experience. ered their equals, was the main motivating force behind the riots. And of course, there are always the bigQts and ruthless business men who seek to keep the qesti- tute working masses fightiiJ.g among themselves in order to use them for their own personal l' Still not discouraged? Then turn to an article about one Tom Dooley, a young doctor who is campaigning as America's answer to Albert Schweitzer. He's the organ- izational brain behind MEDICO, a group designed to pro- . vide medical aid in nine of the under-developed countries gain. · Orval Faubus responded to these emotions and -called out the National Guard becomiil.$ a \fighting man of the people\ who had dared t'O defy the Nor-thern invaders. This act of put·e op- L&M MOTEL 5 Minutes from the Campus on Rice Road Call FR 7·9859 for Reservations portunism is typical of mu.ch of .,....,\\!'.-·____.-._..,.. ___ _ Orval Faubus' a-eign in Arltansas; Governor Fatl!bus is, in J'eality; the closest thing to a pe>pulist . since the days of William Jen- nln,gs Bryan. ).Y.Ir. Fau'bus is a man who is almost totally de- pendent upon emotions to keen him in power, :S:e lurches from one crisis to the next .and nevE)r fails to exploit <>ne. His favorite position is that of ''protector of :the Southern way qf life.\ It was in this role t11at he scored 'hiS greatest electo1al trl• • . 1}rn:ph. Claiming during the pri- macy of 1958 (which is ianta-. · mount to election in Arkansas as well as in Ghana.) that he had \done .his best to prevent Jederal D I AMANTE Restaurant and Bar Visit Our New Dining Room A' PI Gee to GC) to Rele~:r Opp. The Brownell Grate on Nott St. Open Daily 10 to 3 AM, Sundays 5 t<» 3 A.M. The Well Dressed Man- Never goes anywhere without jewelry from Maurice B. Graubart & Sons, Jewelers, 166 Jay St. Serving Union Me-11 for 3 Generations , of the world. And Tom Dooley is doing all his wonde1·ful work despite the fact that he has just recently been oper- ated on for cancer, and we know what this .can do to a person because Arthur Godfrey's told us all about it. And so at first glance Tom Dooley seems so terrific that it makes you just proud tu be an American. Tom Trumped But Romantics, we must read on! For LIFE also has the other side of the story and it's not so :pretty. It seems that many of the peo- ple who kno:w Tom Dooley have some p'retty nasty things to say about him. So there goes your hero, Ro- mantic. There's just no jus- tice in the world, is there? Here's LIFE - Ap1•il 18, 1960. .·

4 1 0/ficial Policy Stated N .S.A. Policy: Integration B~· Kt•JirwtJt S. lio~·t Segregation in education by<Y~---· ----- - ------ ------- race is incompatible with human. tiona:! or·igins. To realize the ob- equulity. It is now also uncon- ject1ve set forth in. the preceding ~titutional ( SuprC\me Court dC\cis- staceaJCnt of !Jl\inciph.: We! of the ion of !\fay 17, 1954, Brown vs. l\S;i;S.\ pledge our~elves to the Board of Ed uca'tion l. The cJucu.twn of the unil•er~ity and· USNSA, pledged to seeing the the college community, and to the' elimination of such segregation, education of the larger commun- urges the swiftest possible inte- ity of which we are a part, con- gration of the race~ at all educa- cernmg the .problem of integra- tiona-! I·evPI:> in all pat·ts of the uon and its po:;siblc ~olutions. couutt-y. It~ the fare of ethical L'S;i;.SA stlunls fot· immediate concepts, legal requirPments, and stepo toward desegregation in global ramifications, thet·e can be higher education. L'Si'lSA stands no justification for delay in the oppuocd to all actions, legislative implcmc•ntation of the Suprl'mr or ochenvisc, which in effect f~·us­ Cour.t decision. TherL• can be, tratc·,; ami prevents the obhga- howe\\er. no substitute for under- t 10 . 11 ata.l ri;;ht of local communi- standing and Pdueation in arl'a.;..; ties to JlrOgt'l'.\':i to\vard cornpli- where political, social and pys- ance with the decision of the Su- cho.Jogical problems are most pr~me Court. Accordingly, USNSA acute. :;tamls vigorously opposed to: \1) Integration Djssipa.tPs Hostility Legislation designed to eliminate publlcation; t2J economic, social Groups thrown together unwill- and political coercion against per- ingly may well, at first, find un- sons or organizations favoring pleasant incidents unavoidable, desegregation; t3> format!on ~f and unavoidable tension unpleas- school or residential distr1cts lll ant; but it is the teaching of ·ex- such a way as to perpetuate or perience and morality that long- encourage segregation in educa- standing hostilities and misunder- lion. (4) discriminatory practices standings are best dissipated in concerning faculty on the basis time by just _such integration. uf race, religion or nati'onal ori- We recognize that prejudice is gin in 1·egard to employment, pro- a great per:ma;;ive antagoni:;t :notion, or the granting of tenure. where there are economic priva· Earh Ca;mpus 'Unique tions, ignorance. cultural dispari- ties; that family attitudes and ancient community justifications can easily overwhelm the color- Jess brotherliness which is the in- stinct and should be the heritage of all children; and that racial tensions tend to increase as the percentage of the minority group to the whole increases. Thus, historic and community factors in some parts of the country have produced racial attitudes of long duration which include among the vast majority of the white popu- lation an ~enlhu;;ia .. m fur \'\para- lion by race which is equalled in passion only by the resentment felt by minority groups who have suffered the humiliation and loss of opportunity which .such segre- gation entails. Where these pas- sions are highest, the transition will be hardest and the need for patience and good will be greatest. NSA OpposPs All Bigotry The t:S::--rSA reaffirms its ac- lmowiPd)?;emPnt of tlw concPpt of equality of opportunity for nil pC'ople and rPmaine unalt<'rably opposed to all form• of discrim- ination in education which are based on race, 1 dig ion, u1· na- Friday Till Nite Nine MA:DRAS @lft!IH~A~ This shirt is cut to pull over the gentleman's head and to stay well anchored at the waist. The cotton is interest• ing and colorful, as exotic as the aromatic spices of India. It will look handsome on you. $8.95 USNSA realizes that each earn- pus is unique and thus must deal \\'ith its own pr·oblems individu- ally. USNSA strongly urges th~t within the framework of the1r own student gov~rnments and with oth<!r organizations, cam- puses; tal establish campus ·com- rntttees to study local problems .n this area, taking into account state Ia ws, local ordinances, and campus regulations and operat- ing within the framework of these; (•bl establis·h local campus rnmmit·tN•.< tn work jointly with faculty and administration repre- \'nt on prohlems of integ-ra- tion <c-l Pm·ticipntp in an inter- rariaf t•xrhangP of cultural pro- grnn1~, debates. discussion. joint s< :~dent governnwnt ·conferences, religious and political meetings :md athll'\ic contests; (dl work toward intt•gration in all on-cam- pus nC\tivities and facilities; !e) <>nrourag-t' stud<>nt g-roup>< to work wtth ri\vic groups; ofl encourage n un-dt,.;ct·iminatory practice in communny L.tctlttics, ].J!OJ~cts and cult ural programs. Promiltf's trndPrsta.nding Jn the gt\ncral situation VSNSA ha\ unrlertaken to ptomote under- standing through endorsement of the Xational Brother·hood '\Veek s]JOnsor·ed hy the Xational Confer· .. nee of ·Christians and Jews. A :<pt·t·ial tT~olution has bren passed lam<:>nting th(' inadequacy of ex- i.;;ting civil l'ights legislation and ur,;i ng gt'Nlt<>r fedPrnl assistance t n I nect I rommuniti<>q ~PPking to fll'rl'\W>tr intPg-rntinn but unable to no so bN·amP of the lack of state support. The 12th National Student Congre,;s mandated the Association staff to work toward the immediate formation of a Hu- man Relations Institute, and also ncommended the establishment of Human Relation\ Committees on thr> iocal campus for the pur- po\e of impiC'menting the provis- : ions of the Model Educational I Practices Standards approved by I tht• Congress. The MEPS dealt I with discl'iminatory practices in stuucnt social organizations, cam- pu> housing 9,nd boarding, off- c.unpus accommodations and ser- ' virf's. hcrllth facilities, recreation, :1nt! physic:J.I ccluc3tion. The Na- tional staff was further directed i to sponsor a National Conference I on Human Relations. I Neither in his community nor ('Continued on Page 6) ----------------------1 ! CITY HALL I : LAUNDERETTE : f 529 Liberty St. ! I J f 1 : Do It Yourself Laundry I , • I ' : Washers- 25c a week 1 1 t (Holds up to 10 lbs.) I ! I Large Dryers - I Oc for I 0 min. f 1 (Holds up to 40 Jbs.) 6 0 I t Open 24 hours a day - ~ l-----~-:a~:~_::: _____ ~~ Friday, April 1'5, 1960 A rea of U.nrest J7 erwoerd's Policies Reviewed · Aftermath of a Shooting By Lawrence H .. Lentchner Prime Minister Verwoerd of the Union of South Africa achieved his peak of publicity in the past week by being shot. The only sor- rowful aspect about the incident is that the American public now has at its disposal a \Dragnet\ d1·a:matization ·Of the shooting, but. is still generally ignorant .of the !JOiicies of the ailing Prime Min- ister and his government. Ver- wocrd's party, the Nationalists, have .since their rise to power, in- stituted policies so discriminatory, that they can be considered reac- tionary, even in South Africa. All Africans are required to carry id<'ntification cards. Homes can be searched at a moments notice, with no regard to legal wa~rent. All public meetings h_aVe been out- lawed. In short, martial law is in effect. Equal Rights. Not Accorded and correspondingly reassures harmonious co-existence. 2-lt assures to the white man. as well as to Bantu his continued and unhampered existence in a country to· which both rightly lay claim and to which both rightly belong. · 3'-- It vemoves from the White man the threat of ultimate poli- tical domh\8-tion by the numer- ically superior Bantu and from the threat of continued economia domination by· the White man. 4---It assures to the Union of South Africa political stability, with economic viability, in so far as these are not disturbed by out- side interference such as Com- munist penetration and subver- sion. Issue Affects Electio~n It might be argued that much of the latter policies were only the result of recent riots by the Bantus. However, it was the .pre- vious \liberties\ assigned to the Africans that Jed to the out- breaks. The Bantu is. not allowed, by government decrE)e to purchlitse land in any of the lower prov- inces, which are the richest lands and are in the industrial center of the Union. 5-It assures to the Bantu the interest and assistance of the more experienced and competi- tively stronger White race in his development 'to maturity and in his adjustment to the stresses of the times. \ By Donald MacDorn.ald Policies Called \Ludicrous'' How will dvi1 rights affect~--·------------­ the election in November? This issue may well be a deciding fac- tor in the presidential contest for a \•ariety of reasons. First, con- (Advertisetment) GROSS for President of the Student Bo~y Mr. Wentzel C. du Plessis, AIP- bassador of the Union of South Africa to the United States has stated, \ ... equal rights are not accorded to the Bantu in the • white man's areas •.. \ However,- he states that these \negative as- pects\ of the Verwoerd policy are. balanced by the following \Posi- tive aspects\. 1-By the act of separation, it reduces the possibility of friction The first \positive aspect\ seems ludicrous in light of the Te- cent rioting and killings, Yes, it has reduced friction and replaced it with \A-bomj) abrasion;'' The second \assures to the white man and Bantu their existence.\ Yet since when is existence alone the prime criteria when speaking of rights. The third point made by du Plessis exemplifies the true ·fear of the Nationalist party-that the Bantu may one day gain equal rights with the W'llites and thus use the majority that is their. Note 1 that this is the \ultimate threat!\ du Plessis admits that the Bantu is dominated complete- (!Continued on Page 6) sider the fact that over 70% of all registered Negro voters are members of the Democratic party. These voters were the balance of power in the cities in 1948, with- out which Mr. Truman would have been defeated. It is fairly unlikely that this patent political force would desert the Demo- crats were Hubert Humphrey, Stu Symington or Adlai Steven- son their standard bearer. For some reason, Senator Kennedy is not considered a friend of the Negro. Jackie R·obinson, writing in his column in the New York PO!St, has referred to Senator Kennedy as the \fair-haired\ boy of the Souther-n Segregationalists. ------------------- ·---------------------~--- Liberals Seared Senator Lyndon Johnson would almost alienate the Negro vote. Senator Johnson is from Texas; t·his fact alone is enough to scare many Northern Liberals who have repeatedly warned that he could not carry the large states, as New York, Michigan, and Il- linuio arc Ul'Ually decisive. .A:dd to this the fact that Johnson is considered by the liberal wing of the party as the man most re- sponsihiP for the ·pathetic per- formance of the last two Demo- cratic congresses and Mr. John- son's chances seem slim indeed. Roy Wilkins has stated publicly that \Lyndon Johnson will never receive the Negro vote.\ Mn,Wil- kins is the president of the Na- tional Association for the' Ad- vancement of Colored People. If Vi·cc President Nixon is the Re- publican candidate for President, I he will undoubtedly \point with pride\ at his record of champion- ing Civil Rig):lts and his mem- bership in the N.A.A.C.P. The Democrats, therefore, have the problem of selecting a candidate acc-eptable to both the reaction- at.y Southern whites and the lib- eral Northerners. Stuart Syming- ton seems to be a likely ·compro~ mise. inoffensive to both sides, he is regarded as the man best able to hold the party together. The great unknowns are the \hidden issues\ which may ap- pPar at any time. An explosion in Birmingham, Alabama, where the government ts rapidly disin· tegrating along with law and or- der; could radically change the national picture. A second Little Roclr would now mean not only a national, but an international disaster for this country. UNION PHARMACY \Drugs and Fountain Servic:e 11 FRE;E DELIVERY R. Aia.n Bleser 600 Union St. FR 4-3605 COMPUTERS, CAREERS .and YOU .•• after you join Western Electric Interested in computers, computer technol- ogy and applications? Then you should inves- tigate Western Electric as a place to build your career. Telephony today is. built around computers. The telephone cros~-bar switch is basically a computer. Electronic switching gear uses computer principles; to them in the next ten years. There will be corresponding opportunities for ca.reei build• ing within research and engineering: Progress is as rapid as your own individual skills permit. And Western Electric maintains both full-time all-expenses-paid graduate engineering train· ing and tuition refund plans to help you move ahead in your chosen field. ~alt$' FERRO'S RESTAURANT At its new engineering research center and at most of its 25 manufacturing locations, Western is relying more and more on com- puters in doing its main job as manufacturing and supply unit for the Bell Telephone System. In its other major field- Defense Communi· cations and Missile systems - the use of com- puters and computer technology is widespread. Opportunities exist for electrical, mechanical, Indus- trial; civil and chemical engineers, as well as .In the physical sciences. for more information get your copy of Consider a Career qt Western Electric from your Placement Officer. Or write College Relations, Room 200E, Wi!Stern Electric Company, 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y. Be sure to arrapge lor a Western ~lectrlc interView when the Beii.System ieam visits your campus. 1599 UPPER UNION ST. 9:30,6 P.M. Specializing in Italian-American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the c:lollar PIZZA I You'll discover quickly that opportunities with Western Electric are promising indeed, Here -company growth stands on a solid base, and your own growth, too. We estimate that engineers will find 8,000 supervisory jobs open IJNil OP tilE !IlL SV'fl% Thurs. & Fri. till 9 P. M. Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. Principal manufacturing locations at Chicago, Ill.; Kearny, N.J.; Baltimore, Md.; lfidlanapolls, Irrd,; ·A.IIentowo ,anc! La~reldale, Pa. 1 Burlington, Greensboro and W~nston-Salem, N. C.; Buffalo, N: V.; North Andover,. Mass.J Lincoln and_ Omaha, Neb.i Kansas City; Mo-t Columbus, Ohio; Oklahoma CttY, Okla.; Teletype Corporation, Chicago 14, 111. and Little ·Rock, Ark. Also Western Electrlo Distribution Centers In 32 cities an~ Installation 'headquarters in lG cities. General headquarters: 195 ·Broadway, New York 7,. N. Y. Friday; Ap March 21, 1~ SHAR.PEJ\ RICA, llO A police fire o: demonstratil law requirin passes at all 1\fu;rch 22, U WASIDNC United Stat· rebukes the ment for th• which killed LANIGA, Africans ar again opens Match 28, H .TO HANNI RJCA, 50 t force is nOV\ tinues. •Governme Africa is t United StatE 22. Unofficial reach 100. _MJWch 24, 11 JOHANNJ RJC:A., All m gregations ' Partial Ma exempt. Mourning strators. striking c NEW YO and Africar ity Council asks for th consider th· Africa. DONnON ment break the South J presses syrn March 25, l JOHANN RICA, All outlawed. DONDON ernment c I>ioters at and were t LAOOS,: presses con RJOME, newspaper reasons or stances for March 29,] JOHANN RICA, New Sti'iklers and fellow~ 1 ;policen CAPE TO great fires March 30,: UNITED SouthAfric• draws fron Debate sta ly ·internal tions had JOHA.Nr- RICA, PrE \that force State of plete Mart 30,000 m: March 31, UNIT Ell: ador prop Council as ' to obtain ance wit' United N out racial April 1, 1~ DURBAJ Africans 1 on gaoL 1 UNITEI curity Cou ador's pre kjold to a• April 2, H UNJTIDI: Hammarsl JO!HANJ R]CA, Ve lent on 1JJ New ri< pushed ba April 4, 1ll CAPE'II( Police bea negroes ir. ers bac~ t DURBA Striking though charge 3r one. WELKC STATE, E among ,g( injured. April 6, ll JOHAN RICA, La ing of pE ernment arrests. April \1 U CAEET Police sie on privat. ing from guns fo1 sought, n

4 Friday, April 15, 1960 1 -Uf jiciall'olicy Stllted A rea of Unrest . '1 J'erwoe1·d's Policies Reviewed N.S.A. Policy: Integration B~ h>•!JH<'Ih 1'. lio~t i ~~ ,..:,tt·~at.nn tn [ 1l11\ .ttlt~ll b~· 1 • I Ltl'·' ; ... tr:L·utnp,lttbk with htHll~Ul; l1t1ll:d l•l'~...:u,,:--;. Tu r, .-tltze thl' ~b-1 t'll\l.tltt!· lt 1.-. t. ... •.\ :d:-:o ur,con-, J•'t tJ\. :--t t tuttll L:L lht· pit ct·_dtng 1 '·',Jlt!l!«','•:t·l :-;ll]tlt-'!llt' l\ 1 ~ll·t <.1<-t'l\'· 1 · t >''Jtl\ , .. \\' u' t!H' • • • I ' t- . ; 4 ' II t J. ' .. \ l ' J t~ . l • . I 1u11 u:· BL>.tld \_'::':-\::'.\. :\l:ty 17. l!L\-1, l~r.~\\'1: \'.~ 1·~~:-: \ l'·\ L.:1 11til , .. :,~-...; tu t!tt ut Edu~·:t.t.td;l, 1\'ln•! l.lh.tc.\1, ,.: tilt· d.lll\',·1'; ... 1\\' ~uHJ }llt•tl;.:.ed to :--1 t•ir.~ tllt' : j 11 • v 1 .ll 1 •••. t'\lll!lltl!llty :-UHl \o tla' •• l:h·:tt ltll'l ~·~ I~~ Ll! \\ }l\l'll I I [ !Jt!l,;..: :!\t • : l Ult' l.tl'...:t•l' l'lHllilllltl- \\'1' 'il•' .l li.Ll'l, l'Ull- l'ltlhi~ Ill ul llltt·;.:.ra~ 1•1' ·tllk .:--\dUtlLJll~. !t•: l!Il!lll tli:d·t' Aftermath of a iShooting By l.a\I'J'Pll('t' II. LPntehm•t' r•, !Ill•· :lluJbkr \'•·t·\\ O<·rd of th\ and cont>spondinglr l'niun .. r ~.,uth Al't·ira achit•vt·d ha1 moniou,.. co-exislence. reassures hi...; pvak ut t•ul<lit·ity in the! past 2 ·It assure,; to the white man · ,, .. ,.,.,.k by h··in.c: ::hut. Thl' only sur- as \\'l'll as to Bantu his continued r .. wful :~-·pt•C't ,Jhuut tht• incitl0nt : 1 nd unhampered existence in a i,; that the Amei'ican public now counl!'y to which both rightly lay ''\\ a I it:: dis[\\'\.! a \Dragnet\ l'iaim unci to which both rightly d!',>In:tiiL'J.!iutl of lilt• sl10oting, but lJt•long, t'lltlldltti(!Jl Dl :--olH'h :-;t ...:Iq.:,;tllll!l. ur ...:~·~ tt·h' ,..;\\' llLt·,·t Jlth.-.Lhk lnt~:­ gr:t.ttun 11f tilt• r~tt't·~ .tt ail t•tluc.L· Lt 111 li lt·\ •· [..; lH .dl J•.tl L..:. u-1 tht• , ,n 1 n~,;y ln t!\ L11 ,. ~•f ,.·thu·:t.l l'•llll'~·t·t '. l··;..:-:d lt'llllilt'IIlt'Ilt.~. a!td ,..,luh:d l.t.!lltlll',ltlun . ..;. ~h. lt' L':t!l he Illl ju.-..tlllt'~Lt'lllH l'ut tl• Lt~~· lH 'till b ,;till g<'ll<'t allv ignm·ant or tht• 3 It rt·moves from the White i•<llll'iv, of lht• 'ailin~ Prime :\lin- man th<· t'hrPat of ultimate poli- L'l<'l' :111d l!;s guvt·rnrnent. Vl'r- tical dt.minatior. by the numer- \.\''1 <l':; ! a: ty, the :\rationalists. ica!ly superior Bantu and from _~·~ 1 ~... ~ ).'. ·1:·.l d· \\t ,::.Iq~.ttlun in have :-;Ull'v th(·ir r1:--e to po\Yer, in- the tlli'Pat of continued economic :ll .... 1 • , .:u.· t.t; .. n. l ':':\~.\ >'land~ ,ntul<'d pulicil's ~o tli:-;criminatory, domination by the White man. JllJJd J'!\1 I' :1 t '1 t lt •Jl l'ulll t dl'l•t,..;tut.l 111 r:~~­ Th·, · ;-:,!q1t ,~ ! Ill' .lll lit·, !ul','.t·\'t·r. 1.11 .... UlJ-t1tH'•- lt•r u::d.r ~l.ttldlll..:, .t:t•l nlLll •· ;tl!, II 1 I. \\ ht lT l•Phttt·:tl, :->tl1 1:1: .t:.tt JlY:-'- c!: -:tll--!,ll'.tl }'! ob;,-:lt- ::t't· Ino~t ;tt._• ll t l'. ,, 1 ,1 q,-,·d tu ,·t!1 .h tld11=-'. kgi.tdati\'v ·· th.tt tilt'\\ van hl' con.si<lered l'l~ac- 4 It assul'es to the Union of ·•t <>1' .•• ,,,., . .,,l11<'i> \' ··!Ivd fta~- tiurmn·, ·,.,.,. 11 in South Africa. All South Aft·ica political stability, ., ,! .. •::.! !''\' <~1.- till' ol·li~a· Attwa'n\ at·,. l'('(JUireli to cany with Pconomic viability, in so far · 1 • t' .·! 1: ():· :lll'll l'otu!.luni- _.,_R Hhntif1catiun l'ald~. I-Ion1<~s ·can a:-:; thl'se al'l' not disturbed by out- . 1,.., ·,, J•h.'L.:~ .-· ~.,.,-.~.rd l't':upll· a .. ;:;~~ 'IIi· bl~ :-.••:nl'hl·tl at a tnumt!nts liOtic( 1 , .:;ide interference such as Com- ·•t:• ,. \• h t'\ •~<-'t'\\m uf th\ :Ju- with n\ t·q.:~ud. to h·~·al warrent. muni:;t penetration and subver- t••·: ,, , tHHt .. \\·tuid;ll;.Jy. l'~=\~..::\ All puhlic l11L'L'ting:-:; have been out- sion. , 1 .,.:\'\' -. 1 _ ... ,u.·h· \l'i'\''d t, .. •1• lawt•d In ~hoi'\. martial law is in 5 It assures to the Bantu the Jnt .. g-n 1 tinn Ili~'ipa.h•.., ilu ... tilit.y 1 ·• ~·: • 11 \\ ,!, 1 ~\' d 1 \ l'i>mi•J:tt•· dft•Ct. intt•rcst and assistance of the . '1 ··u•· ... · . .t·,.,, . .: . '··\u\:lll<'. ''\·>.Li ·~~--~----~~--~------ Equal Rights ~ot Accorded morp PXpC'rienced and competi- tlt·oaJ•.: thl'l•\',11 t··~· t::•·l llll\'\'ll- 'u.d t••~ot.lt. .~ L't•t'lLi.t•!• .t;.._::.lt!L-.t lh·r- t\ 1 Wl't · • 111~1\\ lll.L\\ .,,, ::. a\ lll-l. nn.l \Ill- -·•II\ ,,,. ,,, \lll !a\'01'11\'' Issue Affects E' lectii!O·ll It mi,.:ht lJL· arguetl that much liVe yl stronger 11 e ~tace m hts . . . . , \' <>l' till' l,·IttL•i' Jlolt'ci·,.,_. l'\ei'e only c eve opment to rnaturt y and in plt·a:-.ant :tH.'ldt n~.... tu: ·t\••lll.d•:L .h· .... , ~~ t't,!.dl••: .. ~~il lt•nnatiull uf ,, v .~n.l 1111 ,,·,qd:th!.· ,,,.,,.,, ui>j•l•·:t\'· 1 1 1 · 111 ,. 1 .,.,ult of n•ccnt t·iots by the hi\ adjustment io the stresses of , :; ~~~t ut ; • -.1d1 JJt:.J ( 1:--ti1c ...... 1n tho tintes ant: l·ut 1t ~~ ti:.l' tt.ll·;li!lJ.:' ol\t·X- ... ,,.,. 11 .. 1 .,,, 1 . , 1 , 1 ,, l'l'l'!)L·tua.te or 1 • D 11 ~ 1 D II nantus. flu\Vl'\'er.it\-\-·nsthepre- · ~. ~~· oua 1 ,, a<- ona l J> r · C ll d \L d\ \ jlt'!l<'L>'•• :l!!tl lllt>t.drty \tJ•t lllll~- , ',ll,ll.t-•· ·,,. __ ,. :_:.,.1,<11< ill uill•·l \'lUllS 'tJh<·!'\ie:;\ as~i~netl to the OlCleS a C U lCrOUS ,t;tn•liil).; l:u:-ttli!I•\' .·liH1Int~und<'~· :.•·IL , ;. ,j 1 ,..,· 1 · 1 n 11 \\t\I'Y pradtcc-.< !!\\' will l'i\'ll tic:ht:-; afft•cti• ... --~---· ,\fricans that leu to the out- The first \positive aspect\ o't.m.lu:_s \~''' lw-: •li'\l'·'t'tl til , , 1,., .. 1 •,· •• ·r:.c !lt'tJ.i\' <'II the· b:.~b th·· tl>·•·!,i\n in :-\\\'ember? This iltt•al{s. Th<' Bantu is not allowed, seems ludicrous in light of there- . - (AllvertisP'm€'nt) tliJw hy JUd \\'h tnt•·,.:t·attun. ,. 1 '\'. ;, : 1 ~ 1 ,1: ;, 1. 1 utiun:d ori· i:'.-uv 1 na\' w,·l! h,· a dt•ciding fac-j hy go\'••t·nml'nt tiL'CI'<Ce to purcha~c cent rioting and killings, Yes, it \\\\ tn··•gnl.:•· th ,1 J>I<'JUcL,·, '\ _ill i\ 1 .·~, d t\ <'!l!Jd\ytnt·nt. JH'u· '\~'in 11,;-. p!·,•,.nt!··ntial contt•st for !ant! in any of the lower pt·ov- has reduced friction nnd replaced u:: .. t;:l1:::-! ·!, .. ~_it~J< ;d ;.....:.l:llt~:g l)f ttt1ure ' \'.1tit'tY of rl, L:.;on:-;. } .. ir:-::;t, con- 1 incl·s. \Vhich ai'l' the rjchest land~ it with ~~A-bomb ahrasion.' 1 The .t gt,·at ptt.-~t-t ...... \, \'.11t'l~' thtlt' :!.It· tl'tol1t!:llll' (ll':\',l- 1tt1Jl-.. lgtlnt.t:!('t' l'Ui:ut.tl lil..;p.~.n ti. ~: ti1:1t ta.na!y :ltt.ttuk:..: and ,l<kr tlll' fact lha.t on·r 7or·;. of: nn<l ait• in the industrial center sf'cond \nssures to the white man .til 1 q.:i.<l>T•'tl :-\c~ro voters arc G R 0 S S of the L'nion. and Bantu their existence.\ Yet l':'~,;\\ \'di; .• ·.; that 'ach \· 1111 • , 11 ,·:n!wr:< ut' th•· J),·mo<'ratic party. :\It·. \A·enlZl'l C. du Plessis, Am- ~inrf' when is existence alone the :tiiL'li'llt t'tllll:llUHli,V JU .... t111L'ttll 1 ll:-' .-... ll L' L. . l\' .. ~ n·:.qll•· \\'l tilu . .; mu . .;t th al \!'> 1 ,.,.·,. ,· 0 •,,·r.\' \\''~''' the iln.!am'e of· f l>tt~.·.--:J.~Ol' of thn T''n!·on of South llrime criteria when speaking of ,.,, h I!' \'\·:: ]•t,\Jk:n,.; inchvitlu- 1 . 0 \ 1 • ill th 1 • citi<'~ in 191g, with- I Af rights. l'an 'a!-ll\· u\ t I\\\ ltt·:rn t h·· l'dllll·· 1 V \f 1 t tl Unl'tn 1 States has ,;;,,· \':';>~.\ ,t<o:::.;iy m·gt·:i tlat ,, 11 t ,,l .. r,·iJ :\!t·. Trum:1n wouldl 'rea 0 H.> \' • Thn tht'r·d point made by du lt·~\\ brotl{t: iH~l·,..:-. \\ .1kh i..; t!lt-· tn- 1 • 1 · ht t '-- '.,! .... , '' • '' ''\' ·'\tk uf tht·ir h.l\·,. h····n <ll'fv'll<·d It i,.; fairly. Pre$\'~den+ .~.,·.tc·'~'·to\t'·cl· ·~,·, ''tl!l1uca Bnagnt.us a,.~,,·r ttllo1n Plessis exemplifies the true fear :-:t.llt.'t ;t,nd .-iluuld lw tlh-· itt.·tlt .. t • .._.:t I ~ ,.f :di ,·!!lidr<'ll. :tll<i tl!:ot racial \·'I: -tud. •:: \\''':ill~< uu ant unltk.·l\· tl!:tt thb pat<'nt political i whit<• lll:ln'\ an'a\ ... \ However, of the Nationalist party-that the l tl •It. tttll- •· 1 · ,t'lt/_-:ttnn • ..;, ca:n· f,,l'<'t\ ~\·uu!ll tit':-:l·t·t thl' Den1o-: Bantu rna-...~ one da\ gain equ&l 1 \'\\·\r.' 1 ' \' 1 \ \'' •· ''' · ·' ' '' I If u· l'0' 11 I H 1 f fh ht> ~ta\t'~ that the;;e •·ne~ative as- rights with the 'Wllltes and thus l't't'._'l'llt\~t II( ~Lt :lii):(>Jl:~· ...:t·,.up ;-:L-·~ '·I' t,·-~-1·'•':--l cdl l .... bl.- l'l'll\' \\'t'll' HU•t•rt UlllplrPy, 0 e \ f tl v d rc r to t.IH· \h'\' '\'''\'~'-\ T!m..;. :.:: .. , t•> -·u.t,· J,\·ti !•I'Ll t'lll'i :'In ~\·min..:ton ut· ,\tllai Sll'Yl'n- Jl<'Ct,.; ol 'Je cl'\f\'olelr .POl.~ a .e u\e the majority that is their. I. ''\' ''' t. 1 •klll~ Into :u·count ·''''' ti;,·ir ..;tandanl bt.arct·. For h.:llancr·r llY,, the o owmg ost- Not~ tha.t thi's r·s the \ulti\mate lll ... tdlll' an•l co:Ll!:ltiL~ty 1'wtut . ..: lli l St d t B d ,. • l -: .• t. ~,,.,,, ..... .! <>Idm.~.n.·, •. :tilt \'''·'''' ,,.,,,,m. St't1ator.KL'Ill!cuy isj . ·n .e!l>ll'il ~ Y ltive a<pects. thi·ea''·\ du P!essi·s adml·ts that :--•lrll•' J•.tl t~ 11l lL·-· l\t•~Ul.!Y 1-t\'t• ~ ~t:lti! V L pw<!uL·,d J.ll'l'tl ;,r:,: 11 ,j..,; uf J,<ng · .. ;·>I- :.;.:,;1•·: .. ::.- .:tal ''\\'\ 1 ~ t.ot ,·un.<i<l. 1'•·•1 :1 fn•·IH! of the 1 By tl1L' act of separation, it lj the Bantu is dominated complete- du~;t.tlnn \\hi<·!. n .•. ; 11 ,].. ·\''\'·-' th·· ... _ \:tl::n ti;, 11 \\H'\\'oti< 01 :-.J,•gJu J.,cl:i,• RnhitHon. \\Tiling I ',.,.tlu\''\ th•• possihilit~· of friction (Continued on Page 6) ~· , .... , h• t -.<.tt·h·h l~w.ll catupu~ .n ·!u:... colllnu 1 1 n ttH\ XL'\\ Yorl{ L-----:------------....1 v:t:-:t ~u:tJu:t•;,· Ht tLt '.\ !utt• Iltlpu· 1 . , , •t • , • 1 \ ~: :;,: .lflltl'ly Wtt l p 1 ~,t. ! 1 ·1.~ l't ft'rt\d to ~l'nator' -----'-· l-t1,tJ!, <d! , :,tiu•\• 1':11 1<•1 --• j•.ll .l I t.(l!! !J\· t-:ltt-• \\:::~·:1 1__, t·tpl:tl;t•tlllo • t i~\ l'•l td 'lln ... •tttltlll tt·plt- Kt·n:led~· :I~ tht· \fail-haired\ boy • ,• \• ·•·· J• 1 t1 1 ', ll ... o>l l'~tt ..:~a· 1 1! ,t :-'tJUt!lt Ill ~l'1\-lt'~ l'·l~~lllll u!.::'; ,., U,l' I' .--tt.t:u. !lt I l !'I' 'It' ,•,. ll: :t~l in~~-r I ltlt h\.\ !lilloUI ll. _;ui~t·~ ·,·,l:_., L.t\• .-.nfft·J·t·d Ul,. h.t:n.:.-~::.t•:l tl.·l :.~-- .. ·:·t; '~: t',-• ttlt1ll.ll JHD~ l.ihPrals Sp.arPU I . :- d• \' , . ...: ,:;..:,·~: . ..;...-:u:: j\tlll~ I J l \\\OUld I l'f (IJ'll.lltlll:i'\· \\;:>t \i :•l.l1:, ;-it\·~It _...:.-ttl•'ll t u~:,t:- \-\'!.•-!·· ti.· ·- Jd.:-. . \!•' : ... ! : < 1 ~' ~ 1 !. 't ) : : 11 , .:· ,, 1 :,; 1 ,. ~.~ 1 ·pnlt'lt'lh:t· ... \ ::,. nat.,q· I.~·thinn lt u;sun •• :.:~· • 1 ... . . ·1 . , . , t1 : 1 ,, ~ •• 1 :.:;:-- ~.!:t,tJ--.t ,d ··n :th• tilt• ~t·r-:ro \'ate 1 \.\tll ! ... l .. tl·l' -· ··.·l :r.,· !l• ··i ttl: ... , ~:.! 11 •. _, , ••. :• •ll til 1 ·t:l!n t 11 ... lt<'t _alunt· 1~ Pnough to ::--c:..ul~ r··! ,·,_: ... · 1 .• ,,: ••• • ._ 1 ,f 1 \\ 11 :i'\.\~''1t'tH\ .Jnhn~on i~ ftotll Tt'xas;1 I·~~lt·rll·.,, :tLtl g-u11d \\.'tl: ~.t ..:t.·.t~,·~t ~ 1 • •• • , l • 1 , 1 ,,t; . 11 , 1 , 111 n\· ~,~rtht'ill I.Iht·tals \\ho i ..... .• .. ·•· .. ' · .•.. ,' _; , 11 . 1 ::·· 1 ·, 1 ~, 01 ;~ 1 1; t\·,. ntH·:Itt·cll~- \V,ttnt·d that he ~~.-\ Oppo'-!0-t' .... \lll~iL:\n-f.r~· ··~,···lll . ....:. ·:~ ,.;.l .u:·,:.;t. ·•ul·! 11\! t'.tJr~: th·· lnrgt• ~tat<.~~. T~.·· 1·~~~.\ 1~ .::·.::x> ;t-.:. 11 ~~····· · ,.,,;•- ~ y · :\li hig n ·tntl II t•t J••J.•i. ;,'il•',.t!•t:i J•l,t.L~iCt' Ulj 1 .... ···\ lHI\. •• (' : 1 .·' 1-1 i.::ll\\!t -l~· ~;-, ~~· \: •: ~-·•:tt• i'~ I , , ,. ,_ ., 1 J-;uj•t·::.' .t:ltl, 1 :,.,; ... ,tit' U.·U dly tlt•t't..;l\\t•. ,t\(.l j t·•i'l•I.t\' 1 t \l J'• 1 !'~J·.tt~· ~·nr -·t;: '•.l .. t ·• ·•' • •· ... ,· •,, ~!u..: th•· !·tct th:tt .John..;on 1:-::; 1 -~-·l;·:t' l.':·t :· ·:l·d1-- ~~· .1·. ~-:tt>!~· ~ •• · ·• .: 1 ' 1 ~·~~~~:n:\. I .. J:t--.id,·:·,·tt h\· tht· libt·rnl \\·ing or tlJ'flo..:.,l 'o~ dl f,q:: .•• : tl ..... ·Jl:ll- Prunttt1v-.. lnch~r\'tanding- tiH· p.t~tY n~ tl1e rnan nw:-:t rc-: m :t.t:.H, :r1 ··•lUL\t:!tt!~ -.·.~11 1 !l .tl• I: !h _, !d r-~~ .-.ituatH,n \\~.:\\~.\ ..;· 1111 ..., 1 r,:.-· for t.IIP pa.thr·tic pt\r~ l.ct . .-.t•tl tdi I,,, .l ..... dl. : •. t li1~ UL<t •. ! u>t·L : .•• !'l••!ilut't lll;titl r-\rn.:Ull't• u'f the last two DcnlO- < '-!:!,_ ~:.:•1 t_;f,, I ::dot'.~Plllt'nt or (':·ltll' ('Oil..!l't ..:..:p~ aJHl !\lr. John- ·;:, :\.'.t.: .. ti i'Iu: .. ltlht)IHJ \\\ . .::: r·hant···~ :'l't>!ll ~Iinl indt>t•tl. : ·~··•! .... ,.J, •t !y ··,t :\ ,::,JJ,:t! (.(J!;f.·:·l f!,, .. ,. V\'ti:\.,~~ h:L\' .... tatt·t.l publicly • !: .. ,,: t'!J .. \'fi.t.: .... -t.nd JL·-.\·:;. A :h:tt \I.\'IHI.on John..-:on will n[l\\Pl\. Nite r .. , ,.,; 1· -t·!·t~'lul: l.a-.. lJ,t·ll p:~--.~·d r.n-·t\·,. tl'.t' :\:t·g-n yntf·.\ .:\lt~\Vil- ~ • 1 ·.·- :.·.: ... : ''··- 11: t,!~qu;:u·:'-·_ ot • x- Ltn..::: 1s th•· Jlll'!4Hlent of the :-.r:-1-' Nine ·':n.: · •·· : .>.:h:.~ I· ~i.-i'l'I>·n :Jn•l t: •• :.al ,\\;vci.ttiun f,r the' Ad- :MAlU~AS ~ - ... . This ,!Jirt i~ cut to pull .over the gentleman's head .m.J to stav well anchored at the Vlai~t. The cotton is interest- ing and rolurful. n• e\otic as the aromatic spice' of India. It \ill lo\k lwnd,nme on )OU. $8.95 15'19 UPPER UNION ST. 9:30-6 P.M. Thurs. & Fri. till 9 P.M. :.:·· :._! •. ~~-f :· -~·, .!. t :l a-.._...:!..::f•t.l11' 1 ' . 1 ., 1 • 1 • 1 .• • 11 ~-\\ Color·,·!{ Pt-·nplt•, If f·!•l'n1t! .'i'-. ___ , t·l<in~- to \·.':.' i1' 1 , ·.· 1 .1. ~l~ ~i;.()n j..; th~· TIP- _r:•,.i •11 hut nn~thlt· I·.·,~::' •:1 ,· Ln·lid It\. for Ptt··d·tlt-llt. ~~~ !· \ttJ..: 11! t:H· l·•f'li of :. 1 .\ilj t.:ldvubt.·tl:y \p()int with <-It· ... ;.!·! 1-: t Tht· 1:.!n1 :-..:-:tti 11 t:..Il •·: 1 ,1.:· :tt ht~ l't·col··l .1r chan1pion- :--:!·•·l··~:t ('••!.~:,·· . ..-..: ~:t·t.1Jd'Jt•·d t~l' ..... j'~;, 1 : H 1 ...:ht...- ;nHl hi:-: llll'~-111- \ ........ H.I.I!J! :• ··.-t·d·f to~ \\\ol'k tO\\'Ul\l 1 ,.,.,flip 111 t.htl X A A c.r>. ThC' I h.- :n.:u,,:,J.t·· fut!nltltl!l <•f a Hu- llt·'J':<wt tt~. tht•JtlfuJt·, ha\'P the· .n .1, I!·-:a: J•.u...: it;-tJtutt· and ab 11 j'lohl• :H uf :·wh·cting- a canditlatr -1!!1 ,., •.: d t: ... ' .. t:thit~htnt'llt q·, ···;•:: 1 ~d~ t 11 both thP rt'~-flC\tion- f \:1! f:,.·, ~:.11 l \~U!Jl!IJittl·t•..; ll'\ ~OHt!~t·t·n '¥\hitl·~ HlHl tlH· Jib- 1.: l':lillll\1-. for tl.t· put- ,. 1 ·1.} :\t•rtht•ltH·l'~ ~tu.u't ~yniing- 'I!, , 1 ·'Ill'· •11 ..: 1 1 •· I'' 11 \ J· I'•Hl .--:,, ! 1 1...: t 11 !II' a likf'l~· ronlpt'o- . :.. .\l11dt I Ed111 lltol\ d 11 ,~, 1 nufft·n~l\'•· tn hoth :;idt 1 S, ~·, ·~trd~ IJ'J'I'''•t'd }.\· 1 1 , lt~:tldt•tl H-4 th(• !lllll ht>..:t i'· ,·,,: ''\ ']',,,. :\II.:Pd t!<'alt · 1 b: .. ru hold thl' patty togl'!lwr. 1r.h ·l~ ,. t.r.:t.tt.J:O. 1 1 1'-tl'lH't•:-: in ['~ 1 • :.~ 1 ,· 1 t unhnown:-\ arr> the •·l r,i , :1, ,.: ,.~ :!t/:tt~t>n~. t':lllt- \halj(t•H i, ... -=--ut·~\ which n1ay np- :t~.d !ut.t!di~i:!'. uff- ;ot-·: 1 r .1t .1.1\V tintt·. An ('xplosion :1.',,,,! ~:,.,!,.., ;11\•l ... t I ill }·LtllllllL!.natn . .t\lahatna, \\'ht•n' L- ·'·\ ~~·:'' •: l•'f.:r 1 -,t_,,_~n :.h·· gtli.t•!!JIJl• 11t i..., rapitlly tlisin .. , .. ,t: r~ T:~,. ~··· :. ~ 1 .d.:1~ •. t:\:•h ',\.·tth l.t\V antl ur- :;tl: -~~ -~ ~~· .•. '·\' !''llt:;\r du·,·ett,d ,]!. 1 ·. ct,ultl r;Iditall\\ chan;.!t' thP t,, _ .. p••:J ·' r 1 ='=atJun.t.l Cunft•lt·lH'•• nati(Jll:ll pictUlt'. A sPcond Little. . '' H1.1>: '·' r:.; ,:·ion.\. HoC'!' \\'oul<l now mPan not only I :\.· 1 :.!~t; J:l 111~ cd:nrnunity nor ·1 n:1tional. hut an intPt·national · 1 c 1121111111 , ,1 ()fl l>ngr 6) db;t:...t,·t· tor this ('Uuntry-. ,----------------~----~ I I CSTY HALL I LAUNDERETTE ! 529 Liberty St. I I Do H Yourself Laundry 1 I Washers - 25c a week I 1 (Holds up fo 10 lbs.) I :Large Dryers- IOc for 10 min. I t (Hclds up to 40 lbs.) ~ t 0 t Open 24 hours a day ~ : 7 days a week 1 I I ·-----------------------' UNION PHARMACY \Drugs and Fountain Service\ FREE DELIVERY R, Alan Bleser 600 Union St. FR 4-3605 'I FERRO'S REST AU RANT Specializing in Btalian-American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar I' I ~ i PIZZA ! : Free Par~ing Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. I: i' ' . . . IiI ·I I '-----------~.: L _______________ _ ·~~· .•• ' .. :-·-:-:- r' .. . . .. :, ,, 'tl~''H~~~~ii~~:l 4--· .. '.!;._. ... r) COMPUTERS, CAREERS and YOU ... after you join Western Electric Interested in computers, computer technol- ogy und applic·ations:' Then you should im'C'S- tig.ttc \\'ntern Electric us a place to build your career. Telephony today is built around computers. The telc•phone cross-bur switch is husic.dly a computer. Electronic switching gear uses computer principles. At its new engineering research center and at most of its 25 manufacturing locutions, \Vestern is relying more a11d more on com- puters in doing its main job as manufacturing and supply unit for the Bell Telephone System. In its other major field- Defense Communi- cations and Missile systems - the use of com- puters and computer technology is widespread. You'll discover quickly that opportunities with Western Electric arc promising indeed, Here company growth stands on a solid base, anJ your own growth, too. We estimate that engineers will find 8,000 supervisory jobs open to them in the next ten years. There will be corresponding opportunities for career build- ing 1vithin research and engineering. Progress is us rapid as your own im.lividnal skills permit. And Western Electric maintains both full-time all-expenses-paid graduate engineering train- iN[!; and tuition refund plans to help you move ahead in your chosen field. Opportunities exist for electrical, mechanical, Indus- trial, civil and chemical engineers, as well cs in the physical sciences. For more information get your copy of Consider a Career at Western Electric from your Placement Officer, Or write College Relations, Roam 200E, WE>\stern Electric Compcmy, 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y. Be sure to arrange for a Western Electric interview when the Bell System team visits yo11r campus, UN!T OF tHE IIELL SYS!qf, Principal manufacturing locations at Chicago, Ill.; Kearny, N. J.; Baltimore, Md.; Indianapolis, Ind.; Allentown and Laureldale Pa. 1 Burlington, Greensboro and Wlnston.Salem, N. C.; Buffalo, N. V.: North Andover, Mass.; Lincoln and Omaha, Neb.; Kansas City,' Mo. 1 Columbus, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Okla.; Teletype Corporation, Chicago 14, Ill. and Little Rock, Ark. Also Western Electrlo Distribution Centers In 32 clUes and Installation headquarters in 16 cities. General headquarters: 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y. Friday, Ap1 March 21, 194 SHARPEV RICA, 50 Af police fi.re on flrmon~trntio lnw r<>quiring passes at all March 22, 194 WASHING United State t·ehukes the E mont for the which killed LANG A, Africans are again opens Mar~h 23, 194 JOHANNE RICA, 50 tc force is naw tlnues . Governmer Africa is u United State: 22. Unofficial reach 100. MarC'h 24, 191 JOHANNE RICA, All m< gregations o Partial Mar exempt. Mourning \trators. Striking cc NEW YOI and Afl'ican ity Council c asks for thE consider the Africa. LONDON, ment breaks the South A presses sym1 March 25, 1l JOHANN! RICA, All I outlawed. LONDON, ernment ol riotet·s at f: and were tc LAGOS, 1' presses cone ROME, I newspaper reasons or stances for March 29, li JOHANNJ RICA, New Strikers a and fellows 1 policem CAPETO' great fi t·es : March 30, 1 UNITED SouthAfrica draws from Debate stat ly internal tions had r JOHANN RICA, Pre1 \that force State of e plete Marti: 30,000 rna March 31, : UNITED ador propo Council asl! to obtain : ance with United N2 out racial c April 1. 19f DURBAI' Africans k on gaol. 1 UNITED cm·ity Com ador's pro1 kjold to ac April 2, 194 UNITED Hammarsk JOHAN'r' RICA, Vet lent on Un New rio· pushed bac April 4, 194 CAPE TO Police bea1 negroes in ers back. tc DURBAI Striking though s1 charge 3,0 one. WELKO STATE, F among .go injured. April 6, 19• JOHANr RICA, La' ing of pa: ernment t arrests. April 7, 19 CAPET( Police sie~ on private ing from guns fou sought, nc

e man in a lay White e poli- from of ability, so far by out- Com- the. of the in his and in sses of there- Yes, it ., The te man Yet the of by du ·fear the equal thus their. bhat be the Pa. 1 Y. Friday; April 15, 1960 5 Dateline Africa Local Works Featured Concert Series Ended March 21, 1960 . April 8, 1960 . SHARPIDVILLE, SOUTH AF-· LIO'NDON, The Hollse of Com-. RICA, 50 Africans are killed as mo,ns. ~otes. unanimously to voice police fire on demonstrators. The Bntam s disapproval. concerning . demonstration was aimed at the ·South Africa at the forthcoming · law requiring all Africans to carry Comll}onwea:l'th Conference. passes at all 'times. JOHANNESBURG, 'SiOUTH AF-. Ma;rch Z2, 1960 RI?A, All precautions taken by • wAS . pollee for fothcoming Verwoerd · . HINGTON, P. C., U. S. The speech. \Never in South Africa's 1 United States State Department ·history has any po.Jice acti<m been· rebukes the South African govern~ . ca:rried through so efficiently \ ' ment for the violent police action says chief of police. ' . which killed 66 Afrimins. April 9, 1960 LANGA, SOUTH AFRICA S JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AF- Africans are wounded as police RIGA, Verwoerd shot as white· again opens fire. farmer taps him on shoulder, 1\latch 23, 1960 shoots. rn serious cc>ndition but JOH_ ANNESBURG, SOUTH • \\- not critical, as attempt on lif~ ~ · made with .22 calibre pistol. RIGA, ·50 to 90% of the labor· April 10, 1960 i~~~=s:s now' idle as striking con- JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AF- . G RICA, Prime Minister Vel'woerd 1 overnrnent of Union of South · · · &y Ra:lpil Palasek We have heard a man and not an orchesbra, can most accurately ·express our feeUngs on the final concert in the Schenectady ~u­ seum-Union College 1959-60 Con- cert series. We ·have felt that Mr. Curtis has directed· a medium of his own expression, simply and directly to us, and so we have perceived his communication ef· fortless and .immediately . among the first most difficult piano concerti. With the violin also, he has no mex·cy. Brahms' violin requil\es a virtuosity, yes, but hi:; Concerto neeUs more~ courage. Miss Muhlba·uer should be .cong.radulatcd for her perf'Oriil- anee, de:;pite the dissention which arose from he1· interpretation. Bralnns Bomb M,r. Curtis began the first movement with real gusto. This, we said to our:;elves, is Brahms! and settled down to enj1>y thor- oughly, what was to come. 'This Africa is upset concerning the improving. Speech a.nd hearing United States statement of March 'feared to be affected by bullets. . 22. Calm prevails in aftermath of Unofficial death totals now attempted assassination. reach 100. o _l\latch 24, 1960 L• b ty JOHANNEISBURJG, SOurn AF- l er • • • RICl;., All meetings and large con- (Continued from Page 2) _ gregations of Africans outlawed. outstanding Negro members of Partial Martial Law. Churches the legal and medical professions, exempt. and in the teaching profession we Affirmation, is fea.tlll'ed in a.n exhibit af local worlrs in 01~ Oha:pe1. T.!le two painters whose -art ca.n presently br seen on display are Mrs. Sara Skolnik of East Glenville and Union aiUlmnus, ~fihur Newman of East Chatham. Mr. Newman has t~ugbt art m New York Ci't;v, Cana.wn, New York, and Vermont since his gra.d~tion froun: Union in -1955. Mrs. Skolnic has also been on U!nions ~pus previous to this exhibit. Fo1· two yeru:s she 1\VOrked in :Umon's Art DepaMim.ent under Bruce Greg()ry and Wa;vne N01wa.ck. The Torelli brought back mem- ories of last semester, when we had the opportunity to listen to trumpet works of Vi vald'i and Purcell as well as Torelli. Lis- tening to the concerto. we thought ~·rather curiously-what is this trumpet doing in here? Some- how the idea of a soloist playing this particular number disturbed us, but we could not place our finger on any particular. As for the orchestra, Mr. Curtis .couldn't have picked a better night for the Torelli. They experienced a prime last Tuesday. Let us hope that this good fortune c~ntinues. Expresston Difficult Mr. Charles Ives writes the strangest, most familiar music we've ever heard. It is oul'· kind of music, a:nd yet we find what we find is the ha!'dest discovery in the wo.rld to express. To even attempt a statement of the ques- tion we have gotten the answer to another, more meaningful question. We have gotten the first glimpse of an intr<Jduction to the way of Art and Science. Perhaps we should content our- selves with the importan-ce of these questions rather than with The Unanswerable-,but ·that iS another matter. is the inimitable Brahms, com- priocd of !please forgive us) two- thirds Beethoven who had come befor·e him, and· one-half Tchai- lwvsky, who was to follow. These explain only part of what is Brahm::l, for he was a whole un- divided entity: But,. enter .the solaist ( ohne :Salz Schmalz). What's going on here! Presently the first movement is getting too._ long. The orchestra is too strong for the soloisL Perhaps the en- semble is too large. Perha}ls it is the solo instrument itself. But no, it seems to 'be something even more. Orchestra and soloist have conflicting ideas as to what Is Brahms. Perhaps that was the trouble in the Twelli, also. Miss Muhlbauer is ·content to wander through Brahms' garden, picking this flower, smelling that one. Meanwhile, Mr. Brahms bec<1mes impatient, he wants to show C>Ur soloist the rest of his home. The best is yet to come, if she will only ·come indoors, but Miss Muhlbauer will have no part of it. Her courage is only good to a point, and then she backs down. Result: Muhlbauer vs. Brahms; Mourning held for dead demon- have more than 7,200 Negroes in Letter to the Editor strators. the school system o( our state. Striking continues. . This is more than there are in NEW .YORK, N. Y., The Asian New York, New Jersey, Delaware, and Afr1can group of the Secur- Rhode Island, Massachusetts, and ity Council of the United Nations Connecticut combined. We don't asks for the Security Council t(): just speak of opportunity-we consider the recent outbreaks in. give it.\ To,.. the Editor of Concordiensis: tragically evidenced by extreme As a Iibera:! campus newspaper, savagery. the Concordiensis is to be com- . plimented for its continuing ef~ A Nun's Story forts to maintain an impartial In the April 11, 1960 issue of position in its presentation of the Life. Magazine there is related great issues of the times. At cer- the story-a true one • that-of tain junctures, however, the stu- a band of Zulu tribesmen who dent often wonders about the strayed into the city of Port amount of weekly space which is Elizabeth, Union of South Africa, devoted to presenting the dissent- one pleasant evening a feW' years ing viewpoint. If you have the in- ago. After cons11ming generous testinal fortitude to print the re- quantities of the ruling white- mander of this letter, then you man's potent white lightning, the receive my plaudits as the true courageous Zulus set out for their guardians of freedom of speech. tribal area. Upon the way their Africa. .. \ ... In our schools peace pa•. LJONDON, The British govern- trois the corridors; unlike New ment breaks their long silence on Y'Ork, we do not need armed the South African matter and ex- guards.\ presses sympathy. \. . . the business~an of our March 25, 1900 qountry realizes that our free en- JOHANNESBURG SOUTH AF- terprise system is not founded on RICA, All political 'organizations the excesses of Northern pressure outlawed. groups. He appreciates his heri- T ,,.,.\T\nrON, South Af . tage and seeks a region where .uv.o.~.u l'lCan gov- th 1 1 errunent officially states .that e peop e are wi l~llcg to defend l:'ioters t Sh . 11 f\ d 'fl'rst that heritage. With all t:be a arpeVl e tre charges of prejudice and bigotry, and were to blam,e. with all the talk of illiteracy and LAGOS, NIGIDRIA, Nigeria ex- backwardness, with all the fears presses concern. of school interruption and dis- . RJOME, ITALY, The Vatican Ol'ders, the American businessman newspaper says \There were no continues to flow South. He reasons or extenuating circum- comes not just for markets and stances for the shooting.\ climate, but because of the char- . acter of our people and state March 29, 1960 government.\ JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AF- \With an humble prayer fot• RICA, New outbreaks erupt. God's blessing and guidance, I Strilllers attack both policemen, urge you at this Congress to con- and fellows who try to work. sider well the present happy and 1 ;policeman 14 Africans killed. harmonious life of all Southern CAPETOWN, SOUTH AFR]CA, people before you make any more great fires set by rioters. false mo.ves under the pressure March 30, 1960 of political opportunists, misguid- UNITED NATIONS, N. Y. ed do-gooders or others who SouthAfrican representative with- either do not cat•e about the draws from the Security Council. South1 or who would deliberately Debate stating that matter strict- destroy the well~being of our peo- ly internal and that United Na- ple, for some selfish reason which tions had no jurisdiction. has nothing to do with the real JOHANNEsm=G, \'OUTH AF- peace and progress of the Negro 'Dun \ race in the South.\ RICA, Premier Verwoerd warns \that force will meet force.!' \The information that you have state of emergency called. Com- just read is not only the beliefs plete Martial Law. of myself, but also af tllle Gov- 30,000 march ()n capital. ernor of South Carolina, the Gen- eral Assembly of S()uth Carolina, Ma.:rch 31, 1960 and most of all-the people of UNITED NAT]ONS, N. Y., Ecu- South Carolina.\ ador proposes that the Security In contrast with the sophisti- Counoil ask Hammarskjold to try cated arguments for the main- , to obtain South African compli- tenance of the status quo which ance with the provisions in are presented in the United States United Nations Charter ruling Congress by Southern Senators out racial discrimination. and Representatives, the above April 1,. 1960 DURBAN, SOUTH AFRICA S Africans killed as Mob marches on gaol. 1 policeman shot also. UNITED NATIONS, N. Y., Se· statements portrays the mode of expression utilized by the inform- ed Southern citizen who attempts to present the case of the white. population in the South before various outside groups. curity Council complies with Ecu- , • • • • • • • • • • • _ • ador's proposal; asks Hammars- kjold to act. April ~. 19.60 UNITEID NATIONS, N. Y., Hammarskjold unsure of path. JOHANNESBURG-, SIOUTH AF- R]CA, Verwoerd gover=ent si- lent on United Nations plea. (Advertisement) Union Man Shot Down! New riots and demonstrations pushed back. Schenectady, New York, Arpril 4, 19601 April 15, 1960. CAPETIOIWN, SOUTil AFRICA, Frank Finster, a \well rbalanc- Police beat and assault rebellious ed\ college student, received no- negroes in attempt to force strik- tice in today's mall that he had ers bac~ to work. · been shot down by a prospective Ra.pid Advance The last few years have -wit- nessed rapid advances in the poli- tical institution of the African continent. Prior to these develO·P- ments the white settlers from Great Britain, France, Germany, and Belgium began to dot the face of Africa with isolated out- posts of West European civiliza- tion. Tomorrow, most of the emerging nations of the continent will take their seate>jn the United Nations. They Will place their representatives beside those of the great powers of the world, de- bating and seek.!ng solutions to the perplexing world problems set before that body. But how dee,p runs the vein of modern ci'viliza- tion in Africa. In the last few years several incidents have occurred which in- dicate that the facade is indeed a very shallow one; and that despite heroic efforts to introduce greater depth, the primitive character of many of the upcoming states is DURBAN, SOUTH AFRICA, prom date. Finster appeared to Striking cont:ili.ues en force, be in a slight state of shock and th{)ugh strikers doWn. Police disbelief following the incident. charge 3 1 000 demonstrators; kill \I just can't believe that any· one. girl ·Could possibly turn down an WELKO!M · opportunity to danee FridlalY, iMJIIy . • O:a.ANGID FREE 6tth to the music <1f Stan Rubin's · STATE, First violence !J.rea;ks out swing- band, especially when the among gold n'liners. 17 persons· Tiger T.orwlli :Fltve are playing the injured. breaks,\ bemoaned Finster to the April 6, 1900 press. .JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AF- He added optimistically, \With RICA, Laws requiring the carry- the d?uble attraction featuring ing of passes. reinforced as gov-' ~he Hi L?'s on Saturday night ernment tightens position. Many , In Memorial ~hapel I don't . see arrests. · Q.ow I can miss getting another d~te.\ April 7, 1960 We can all learn a lesson from C.ABETOWN, SOUTH AFRICA the cata~trophe reported ru'bove. relaxed frame of mind fostered a Some Meaning P~·esent The opening is set in pianissi rn..o strings, passing through a set of beautiful modulations with an a draw. Fortunately, Mr. Curtis' orchestra saved the day for Brahms, and the audience was well satisfied. desire to cool the flame of hunger which burned in their undernour- ished bellies, As a motor vehicle approached; they realized that the supreme moment had come at last. organ-lik'\l transparency. This is Clarinet Employed the understructure of the com-. position, placed in a position The Haydn was the climax of where It is obvious to all. It can the evening. Mr. Curtis cues lils be grasped and appreciated. It drummer with a wink? This -it has-some meaning; we can Haydn was unexpurgated, or wa.S Zulus Eat Nun understand what is there. Enter it purged from present corrupt Upon halting the unsuspecting the question (?) stated in the editions? Mr. Curtis made use vehicle, examinatiO'II of its cox1- trumpet. This is more difficult of a recently discovered clarinet tents revea.led the presence of a to grasp than the understructure, part, with highly satisfying re- cheerful nun. Unaware of the re- yet we get the feeling that we suits, and perhaps Mr. Rice made spect accorded to such ;personages think we know what is going on. use of some original scoring of in most other nations, the merry Enter n'Ow the rabbelo:ys sound hi.s own in his solo. band extricated the poor .soul of four flutes. What has Ives from her vehicle and commenced done? H\e's raving mad! These The ho\L'le was brought down, to enjoy a satisfying meal. That flutes have damned all that has and Mr. Curtis played as an en- the Zthu is clearly not ready for gone before. And so it goes in core, the Beethoven \Coriolan\ civic responsibility is seen by ob- a cycle formation, the horn en- Overture. serving that in their haste they tering respectively lower at each .---------------~, neglected to finish entinguishing new statement; and the flutes, the life of the main course before which seem to take adv.antage of the first slice had been cut. this wealrening effect, being pro- Drawing upon Human Events gressively more Sc;~i!Jan, antagon- for April 14, 1960, one discovers ize us to the point of breakdown. that there is more obvious evi- Then the question retllrns and. dence which is quite blatantly dis· dies. And everything dies . . . played .. One of the two kings of Johannes Brahms -writes a the Bakub:;t tribes in the Belgian I wicked concerto. Witness his (<!!ontinued on Page 6) • two for piano, which are classed EVERYBODY AND HlS BROTHER ~OVES JENNY ••• BR!GHT 1 GOLDEN, THIRST- QUENCHING GENESEE. IT,S BREWED WITH PURE HEMLOCK LAKE WATER. AND THAT MAKES THE DIFFERENCE. MAKE YOURS GENESEE TON I GHT ! Friday Nite Till Nine from ~NDIA The beauty of this jacket is in the madras woven on tile banks of the Ganges. Exotic colors bleed one into the otb:er with rare lind wonderful bar• mony. 'l'he virtue lies in its superb tailoring and the ex• cellence of fit. $35.00 3allll' 1599 UPPER UNION ST. 9:30~6 P.M. Thurs. & Fr'i. till 9 P. M. Police sieze 1o00 Africans in raid These remains bat twenty-eight on private homes, Weapons rang- d!l,ys in which to ·get not one, but ing from ch1bs to sub machine two dates for the prom you won't guns found. Leaders of riot . want to miss. The Genesee Brewing Co., Inc., Rochester,. N. V. sought, not found. ··,------------- ..

960 in a lay ightly poli- umer- from nomic an. on of so far out- Com- the the mpeti- in his in of re- it placed ' The e man \ Yet the ing of by du e fear the equal thus their. timate that d- it. n- he py v. Friday, Aprill'S, 1960 5 Dateline Africa Local Works Featured Concert Series Ended March 21, 1960 SHARPEVILLE, S:OU'T'H AF- RICA, 50 Africans arc killed. as police fi.re on demonstmtors. The drmonstr~tion was a imPel at the law r£>quiring aH Africnm: to carry passes at all times. March 22, 1960 WASHINGTON, D. {'. U. S. Thr United States State Department, rebakE's the South Africnn govern- ment for the violent police action which killed 66 Africans. LANGA, SOUTH AFRICA 3 Africans are wounded as police again opens fire. Mnr<'h 23, 1960 JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AF- RICA, 50 to 90<:.(- of the labor force is nmv idle as stl'iking con- tinues. Apdl 8, 1960 lJONDON, The House of Com- InOIJs votes unanimously to voice Britain's disapproval concerning s.outh Africa at the forthcoming ( omntonw<~alth Conference. JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AF- Rit; A. All prr>cautions taken by poltce for fotlH'oming Verwoerd SJH•ech. \\N<'VPI' in South Africa's history has any police action been :arril·d through so efficiently\ says chief of police. ' April 9, l!J60 JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AF-, IUCA, V•·rwoerd shot as wh-ite farmt·r taps him on shoulder, shoots. In serious condition hut not cdtical, as attempt on life made with .22 cali>brt• ptstol. A(Jril 10, I !!60 \\' e ha. ve heard :t man a Ill I not an orchestra. ean nH;:-;t ae('UJ a tel\' exp1·es;; our fvding-s on the fin:;! concert iu the• Schvnedaliy .\6u· st•unl-C'nion Collegl:' 1Y5H·HII C'on- Ct•rt .Sl.'ric•s. Y.,'e haVt• !\t·lt that .!\1r. Curtu; has dll'cCtL·li a Juedrutu of his o\\'n expie~,;iun. ;;imjJly an<l dn·ec.:t ly to us, au<.! ·\' Wt· ·have perc<·ivt·<l his cortllllUilieatiull d· fortle.\-; and itllllll·<llall'I~·. The Tun·lli brought bac·k tl)(·m· orit>s of la:-;t .st•rut-~·4Pl'. \\'ht·n '\\\t• had th•· .. ppur·tunity to listt•n to trumpl't work:< of Vivaldi and Purcell <l' well a,; Torcllt. Lis· tL-ning to th•· cone•·rtu. \\'t• thoug-ht ':illltHlg thL' fu ..... t Jtlo\'t thffit•UJt piano l'Oll<\l'l t l \\\itl! the ViOlin :tlso., ·ht• h:L\'i Jlt) lilt'rCy. r~rahtns' \ '\lirl 1- qUll't'S a \·trtuo:-;tty, yt·,-;, bUt 111:-. ('tHHTitU lPTllS JIH)J'C cutn.t.~t·. C\lt-<,; :\lultlb.tut·t· .'ltuultl hL\ t'Ull;...:radula!l·{l fur h· I' fJPI'fornt ... Ull<'t., d•·-.Jlllt tll·· dt:O:-\'l•tlt'ion whirh aru ..... l' truill hvt 111h l\!JJl'tation. Bntlnn,., .Bomb Government of Union of South Africa is upset concerning the United States statement of March 22. Unofficial death totals now reach 1BO. Mar<'h 24, 1960 JOI-IANNESBURG. SOUTH AF- RICA, _All meetings and large con- gt·cgatwns of Africans outlawed. Partial Martial Law. Churches exempt. JOHANNESBURG. SOUTH AF- RICA. Prime Minister Verwoerd impt\CJVing. Speech and hearing feared to h!> af't\ected by bullets. Calm prevail:< in aftermath of att .. mpted assas:<ination. 0 ----- Liberty ... <Continued from Page 2l Affi~mation, is fmtmed in an pxhibit of lo<'al worlis in OI_d {hapel. Thl\ two painfl\rs whosp art can pr••;.ently bP s<>t>n on display a·re Mrs. Sa1•a Skolnik of East Gll•n,·iLip and l\nion alumnus, ~·thur Newrna.n of East Chatham .. Mr. N••wman has t-~ught ~rt m New Yo1·k C'i1y, Canaan, NPw Yorl<, and VPrmont smc.e Ius gl'.aduaHon fro•m Union in 1955. Mrs. Skolnie bas also ·bet•n on Um_on's <;t~pus previous to 1-h.i.s pxhl.hit. For two y•·ars she 1worked m Unwn ~ Art Dt'part:nwnt undPr Bruc\ Gr 1 ·gory an<l Wayne Nowaclt. ·ratlt•·r ruriou:<ly what '\ this t r·unlpl't doing in h··rt>? :;onlP- huw tht• i<l<·a of a ~oloi..;t pla~:ing­ thls partlr>Jlar llUl!l'bt•r dJ,;tudwol us, hut we eould not plact• our fingPr on any particular. As for th<· orctwstra. ~h·. Curtis couldn't hav'\ pick•·d a bettt·r ni\ht for the Tort•lli. They ••Xp<'riL•ncc·d a pl·im<· last Tuesda,-. L<·t us hojH' that this f<OOd fortun•· continues. Exprl'ssi·on Ditficult :\I r. Charle,; Iv~.s \\'l\it the strangt•3t, most famil!ar music we'v,. ever !ward. It is our l<ind of music, and vet we find what we find is the· hardest discover\' in the world to expn•ss. To evl'~ attempt a stu temen t of the ques· lion we have gotten the an.swe1· to another, ·more meaningful question. WP haV•' g-otten thP first glimpse of an intt·oduction to the way of Art and Science. P<'t·haps we should c>ontent our- sdVt•S wHh the importance of th<'Sl' questions rathrr than with The- Unanswerable -but that is another matter. .:0.11·. Cut th J,.·gan th•· fir.4 rnuVt·!llt·nt \\'It h 1 t·:1l .....: u:-;tu. This, \Vl' ~aid tu oU!.'\It'lY~·'\'· b HrahJJl.:-1 1 .illd ~l'ttll·d diJ\\'fl tu l'llJOY t hol'- uu~hly. wlLtt wa .... t(J L'<>In~·- This I:i tlll UlU!lll~iblt· Ht ahn1:-;, ('U!ll- lJti.--.t·d tJt tplv<..t.: .. t' lut,..!l\•· U:--1 two- third:-; Ht•t•thuvt·n \\\ho had eontt' bt•fuJ f' hllll. ·,wl on•·-h:df T<\hal- ku\'~ky. \ \\a~ ro ftd]U\\ Tiw~t' •·xplain on I~· part o! what '\ l~rahiu ..... l<Jl- lw \\'a .• a whoh~ un- dlVHlt:d t·nttt\' But. , ntt·r tltt· \ol. t ohn~· =-'alz =-'••IJlltalzJ. \\.hat·~~ ~oin;..: ur1 ht·I ,.· Pn·:·H·nt ly the fu· .... t lllU\'t·ntt·nt Is gl'tting too lunf!. Ttl·· utch~.:.·:-'tl\a i!'i tou ::~trur1g for tilt· ~olul~t. l'erhap~ the en· ~l·rubll' i.-. tut.J largt·. p, rhai,·'\' it Js the solu !lJ:<trun~<·nt Jt..<Plf But !IU, 1l ~t'l'lll\' tu }ot' ;->Urll••thiug l\'{.'!1 more·. Orclw,.;tra anti so!ot;;t have eonfltcting- idPa~ a~ to '\\\hat i.-; Brahllls. PPrh:tps that was tlw trouble in tile Tg,rclll, also. .!\liss :\Iuhlloau<·r is ,·orJtt·nL to wand<\r through B1·ahms' gardetl. ]Jicking thi.'l flower. ;-;mdling that one. .:0.1L\anwlule . .:0.1r. Brahm,; bcco1ne~ 1n1patient, hP \Vatlt~\\ to _.;hu\\.' otll• solo-i:;t th<> rt·~t of hi,; hnllll'. The lwst i~ YL·t to comt·. if slw will only conw in<loors, but .!\!iss .:O.luhlbaut·J· will havp nu part of it. H .. ,. cour.tge is only good to a point, :llltl thL·Il :;he backs down. Result: .!\!uh!baut•l\ v..;. Brahm..;; a d1·aw. Futtunatt•ly . .:O.!r·. Curtis' orchp,;tl\a sav<·d tht• dav for Brahms. ami the audiPnc\e was well satisfied. out~tanding Negro memb~rs of the legal and medical professions, Mourning held for dead demon- ~trators. and in the teaching profession we have mort' than 7,200 Negroes in Letter to the Editor Stril~ing continues. NEW YORK. N. Y., The Asian and African group of the Secur- ity Council of the United Nations asks for the Security Council to consider the recent outbreaks in Africa. LONDON, The British govern- ment breaks their long silence on the South African matter and ex- presses sympathy. March 25, 1960 JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AF- RICA. All political organizations outlawed. LONDON, South African gov- ernment officially states that rioters at SharpeviUe fired fit·st and were to blame. LAGOS, NIGERIA, Nigeria ex- presses concern. ROME, ITALY, The Vatican newspaper says \There were no reasons or extenuating circum- stances for the shooting.\ March 29, 1960 JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AF- RICA, New outbreaks erupt. Strikers attack both policemen, and fellows who try to work. 1 policeman 14 Africans killed. CAPETOWN, SOUTH AFRICA, gre>at fires set by rioters. March 30, 1960 UNITED NATIONS, N. Y. the ~chool system of our state. Tl!is is more than there are in New York, New Jersey. Delaware, To the Editor of Concordiensis: Rhode Island, Massachusetts, and As a lihel'al campus newspaper, Connecticut combined. We don't the Concordi'I'IL~is is to be com- just speak of opportunity--we plimented for its continuing ef- give it.\ forts to maintain an impartial \ ... In our schools peace pa· position in its presentation of the trois the corridors; unlike New great issues of the times. At cer- York, we do not need armed lain junctures, hoWever, the stu- guards.\ dent often wonders about the \. . . the businessman of our amount of weekly space which is c;ountry realizes that our free en- devoted to presenting the dissent- :t•rprise system is not founded on ing viewpoint. If you have the in- the excesses of Northern pressure testinal fortitude to print the re- groups. He appreciates his hcri- mander of this letter, then you tage and seeks a region where receive my plaudits as the true the people are willing to defend guardians of freedom of speech. Rapid Advance .hat heritage. Wilh all the charges of prejudice and ·bigotry. w1th all the talk of illiteracy and The last few years have wit- backwardness, with all the fears nessed rapid advancC's in the poli- of .school interruption and dis- tical institution of the African 01ders. the American -businessman continent. Prior to these develop- 'ontinuc>s to flow South. He ments the white settlers from cuull's not just for markets and Great Britain, France. Germany, climate. but ht>cause of the char- and Belgium began to dot the acter of our people and state face of Africa with isolated out- goveJ·nment.\ posts of West European civiliza- \\\'ith an humble prayer for tion. Tomorrow, most of the God's ble,sing and guidance, I emerging nations of the continent Ul'ge you at this Congress to con- will take their seats in the United <id<•r WPll the present happy and Nations. They ·will place their hat\monious life of all Southern represcntatives beside those of J>Pople before you make any more the great powers of the world, de- :'alse moves under the pressure ·bating and seeking solutions to of political oppm·tunists, misguid-~ the perplexing world problems set ed do-gooders or others who before that body. But how deep either do not care about the I runs the vein of modern civiliza- trag-ically evidenced hy extreme savagery. A Nun's Story In the April 11, 1960 issue of Life Magazine there is related the story-a true one %JI that-of a band of Zulu tribesmen who strayed into the city of Port Eliza·beth. Union of South Africa, one pleasant evening a few years ago. After cons\!lming generous quantities of the ruling White- man's potent white lightning, the Home Meaning Prl\S!'nt Pourag-eous Zulus set out for their . . . . . . tribal area. Upon the way their The .openmg ~s sPt 111 p1amss1 relaxed frame of mind fostered a mo strm?s· pa9smg t~rough_ a set desire to cool the flame of hunger of ,?ea~tlful .~todul~tto~s wtth. an which burned in their undernour- I oq:an-hke tJ an~ pat enc~. Thts IS ished bellies. As a motor vehicle ! the _understructur~ of the C:~m­ approached they ealized th t th 'po~ltwn .. place~l m a po,;t\Jon su reme dt m n r h a e : where 1t IS obvwus to all. It can P 0 e t ad come at I bt• grasped and appreciated. It last. 't h · -1 as-some mearung• we can Zulus Eat Nun understand '\'hat is thet·~. Enter SouthAftican representative with- draws from the Security Council. Debate stating that matter strict- ly internal and that United Na- tions had no jurisdiction. South, or who would deliberately tion in Africa. Upon halting the unsuspecting. the question 1? 1 stated in the vehicle. examination of its con- 1 trumpet. This is more difficult tents revealed the presence of a; to gra~p than the understructure. cheerful nun. Unaware of the re- i ye~ we get the fet>li':lg tl~at Wt' spect accorded to such personages thmk we know what 1s gomg on. in most other nations, the merry Enter now the rahbeloys sound band extricated the poor soul of four flutes. What has Jves from her vehicle and commenced doneo? He's mving mad~ The;;e to enjoy a satisfying meal. That flutes have damned all that h<1S the Zulu is clearly not ready for gone before. And so it goe~ in civic responsibility is seen by ob- a cycle formation. the horn en- serving that in their haste they tering respectively lower at each neglected to finish entinguishing ne~ statement; and the flutes. the life of the main course before whtch seem to take advantag-e of the first slice had been cut. this weakening effect, being pro- In the last few years sevet·al Drawing upon Hmnan Events ?ressively more _Scyllan, antagon- destroy the well-being of om peo- ple, for some selfish reason w,hich has nothing to do with the real peace an <.I progress of the Negro race in the South.\ incidents have occu!'\red which in- for April 14, 1960, one discovers tze us to the 'P0111t of breakdown. dicate that the facade is indeed a that there is more obvious evi- Then the question returns and very shallow one; and that despite dence which is quite blatantly dis- dies. And ('Verytlling dies ... heroic efforts to introduce greater played. One of the two kings of Johannes Brahms writes a depth, the primitive character of the Bakuba tribes in the Belgian' wicked concerto. V.'itn<>.\~ his JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AF- RICA, Premier Vcrwoerd warns \that force will meet force.\ State of emergency called. Com- plete Martial Law. 3(},0DO march on capital. March 31, 1961) UNITED NATI<ONS, N.Y., Ecu- ador proposes that the Secut·ity Council ask Hammarskjold to try to obtain South A:frican compli- ance with the provisions in United Nations Charter ruling out racial discrimination. April 1, 1960 DURBAN, SOUTH AFRICA 3 Africans killed as Mob marcl~es on gaol. 1 policeman shot also. UNITED NATIONS, N. Y., Se- cm·ity Council complies \Vith Ecu· ador's proposal; asks Hammars- kjold to act. April 2, 1960 UNITED NATIONS, N. Y .. Hammarskjold unsure of path. JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AF- RICA, Verwoerd government si- h'nt on United Nations plea. New riots and demonstrations pushed back. April 4, 1960 CAPETOWN, SOUTH AFRICA, Police beat and assault rebellious negroes in attempt to force strik- ers back. to work. DURBAN, SOUTH AFRICA, Striking contirtues en force, though strikers down. Police charge 3,000 demonstrators; kill one. WELKOM, ORANGE FREE STATE, First violence breaks out among .gold miners. 17 persons injured. April 6, 1960 JOHANNESBUR.O, .SOUTH AF- RICA, Laws requiring the carry- ing of passes reh1forced as gov- ernment tightens position. Many arrests. April 7, 1960 CAPETOWN, SOUTH AFRICA Pollee sieze 1500 Africans in raid on private homes. Weapons rang- ing from clubs to sub machine guns found, Leaders of riot sought, not found. \Tile information that you have just read is not only the beliefs of myself, but also of tlte Gov- f'rnor of South Carolina, the Gen- eral Assembly of South Carolina, many of the upcoming .~!\_11:_~~-i-s ___ L <!_o_n_t_i~e_d_on __ ~age 6J · two for piano, which are cla><sc•d ··----------- and most of all -the people of South Carolina.\ rn contrast with the sophisti- cated arguments for the main- tenance of the status quo which arc present('d in the United States Congress by Southern Senators and Representatives. the above statements portr·ays the mode of PXpression utilized by the inform- ed Southern citizen w-ho attempts to present the case of the white population in the South before va.rious outside groups. 4_kta ____ IILWI_Ia ___ _ (Advet·tisement) Union Man Shot Down! Schenectady, New York, April 15, 1960. Frank Finster, a \well balanc- ed\ college studcnt. received no- tice in today's mail that he had been shot down by a prospective prom date. Finster appeared to be in a slight state of shock and disbelief following the incident. \I just can't believe that any girl could possibly turn down an opportunity to dance Frid:!cy\ May Gtlli. to the music of Stan Rubin's t~wing band, especially when the Tiger T.own F~'Ve are playing the breaks,\ bemoaned Finster to the press. He added optimistically, \With the double attraction featuring the Hi Lo's on Saturday night in Memorial Chapel I don't see how I can miss getting another d'ate.\ We can all learn a lesson from the catastrophe reported a'bove. These remains but twenty-eight days in which to get not one, but two dates for the prom you won't want to miss. ·--------~--·--- EVERYBODY AND HIS BROTHER ~OVES JENNY .•. BRIGHT, GOLDEN I THIRST-QUENCHING GENESEE. IT)S BREWED WITH PURE HEMLOCK LAKE WATER. AND THAT MAKES THE DIFFERENCE. MAKE YOURS GENESEE TONIGHT! The Genesee Brewing Co., Inc., Rochester, N.Y. Clari.JlPt Employl'U Ttw Haydn wa:< th<· climax o.f th'\ ,·v\nin!;. .!\1t·. Curtis ru\s his ·lrutullll'l\ with a wink\? This Haydn wa.:-; unPxput·gatPd. or v.:a.4 it pun:ed from pl\P't'llt corrupt Pdition~\ :.\lr. Curti\ made u.se uf a I'•\C<·utlv dJ,;co\\t·l't'd clarinet pa.rt, with highly \ati:<fying re- sults. and rwl\lle!p.s :\Ir. Ric,. matle u:-;e of sotnf' origtnal scoring of hi.--' 0\\'11 in hi:; solo. The huu:<c- wa,; brought down, and C\lr. Curti,; plaved as an en- cor<>, th<' B,•,•tho\:en \Coriolan\ 0\'t'l tun•. friday Nite Till Nine from INDIA The beauty of this jacket is in the madras woven on the banks of the Ganges. Exotic colors bleed one into the other with rare and wonderful har• mony. The virtue lies in its superb tailoring and the ex• cellence of fit. $35.00 :llalt.G' 1599 UPPER UNION ST. 9:30-6 P. M, Thurs. & Fri. till 9 P. M.

6 Mountebanks To Perform \Androcles And The Lion\ \Listen Ferrovius, there wiii not be more than one glacliator for each Christian in the arena today ... \ states the emperor Caesar, -when the. Christian infidels come face to face with the pagan~--------­ Romans at the l\Iounte- banJcs theater on April 22, 23, 25, 27. Hanna IIall will be converted into a colleseurn a~ the :Mountebanks of U n i o n C o ll e g e present George Bernmd Shaw's \An- drocles and the Lion.\ It was 38 years ago t·hat Eng- land's foremost playwright of the 20th Century penned this stun- ning- satire on religion and soci- ety. His witty comedy of the early days of Christianity ex~ plm·oes the making~ and motives of rnartyt·s, the nel'd f<H' religion, and the hypocmcy of faith. The play i..s based upon the anc- ient -fable of a meek Gnel' tailor, converted to Chr i~tranrtv, whose ~kind heart and C'ompus:<ion for· anln:ml.s enables him to befriend a h<Jtl. -Latt·r·. capturt>d -by the i{()rt.lan.;, he ts bt:uught \\.'ith a. :,:\I'OU!J of Chri>tian prisorwr,; to H.ottlP wilere they mu~t renounce their r·e!i·gion before the .emperor and the p~ople of the erty. or· dit• at the hands ur th<· gladiator,;. Only a miracl<-, <\an save tht• group. \.Vhat happ..,n,; to the in- tt•lli,gent atlll 1 a tiona! believer. the weak-willed hypucrite. or the slmv~·-\ ~ltt.:J (.:UllVL'l'tt: r \\\ bu::h! t.:har- a.cl\' 1 ~ ::ilta w \u masterfully de- \· eloped? 1'hc lttie tulc wtll Le played ·by Bob Slduut, a freshman who rs n:1akmg Ius second appearance for th<e Thesbians of Union. A native of Brooltlyn. Bob is Divis- ion I major who has radio and television expel'ience for the Shooting ... (Continued from Page 4) -ly by the Whites economically by the use of the word continued, and by his reference to the \threat of political domination by the Bantu\ he concede:; the White dominence of the Bantu politi- cally and eC!onomically by theil' n umericaNy far infNior white· cit-izens. and nas the gall to call thi:; a positive point! The fourth point sounds strange- ly as ludicrous as the first, but the refcr·encc tu the Communists is interesting-. If one had a choice a\ to whethet· to be dominated by \( t•rwo..,rd's Nat ionalbts, or the ;';u\'iets. Wt• can understand why J><'Ajlle C'Ollllllit suil'idP. Tlw fifth point is undoubtably lannltar to ,t udenb of U. S. his- tory. as it \\·as statl'd many lime.' hy uplroltlt•r:.; of :-.tanifest De:-;- tiny. Howt•ver, ll'l us remember that this period of our history was our darke\t and the one we wr,;h to forget mo:;t readily. 1'1•~ Nationali:;ts of the Union of South Africa are desperately endc•avuring to gain world sym- pathy in the li;..ht of world wide ,J ba[JJ!roval. H world oL::>ervers are rauunal beings, the Union is fightmg a lu~ing cau.;e. Ld u:s hupe that tht: Bantu are not! ---0--- N. S.A ... G <Continued from Page 4) Boa.rd of Educat-Ion of the City. in his educational exper·ience does of New York and who has studied the Southern student have an op- drarnatics at Northwestern Uni- portunity to develop a full under- versil)'. ,;tanding of the complexities of T:he intelligent believer is play- the Southern problems. This is ed by a newcomer to the Mounte- partly due to the traditional social ba11.ks, Lainie Cannon. Lainie and economic pressures exerted is a Schenectady resident, mar- on the individual within a South- l'ied., and the mother· of two mu- ern community. and to the fact jor productions of her own. She that the experience of integra- has done dramatic wo1·k at Ober- tion in Southern education includ- lin -<::allege, and at the Cniversity mg the collt>ge and universities of London. Her Iowr in tbe play, i,;, at t-his time, extremely limited the Captain. is portrayed by or totally absent. There is a need Gee>rge Di Cenzo, a sophomore for a learning experience which English major whose previous ap- wrll better equip the Southern peaxance.::; in \As You Like It,\ student to contribute effectively and more recently as Joseph K. to the solution of -the human re- in •·The Trial\ have made him lations problems which exist on well known on campus. his campus and which will later 0------ Letter to the Editor Tc the Editor of ('Oncordi't'n<;is: In the last issue of the Con- coruy the> following statement ap- peund. \Ln r·espons,• to a statement that the defened plan \\'ould permit the freshman greatt•r· opportunity to achreve academic excellence, Arthur O'Loughlin of Delta Phi a.sserted \we have too .m1;1ny tur- keys on this campus already.\ The ('onoordiPnsis r·eportt•r was, und<Jubtcdly, not aware of the ~hift fr·om academics back to the discussion on contact between frat ••rnit)r men and frt'shrnen. can see how this could be done a ftc r some r·ef!ertion on my state- ment. The problem apparently ~teraB from thE' fact that the Con- cord.y reporter h'ea:rd only the last sentences of two consecutive corn- men ts ·from two different house pres.idents. I apologize to the Con<>ordiP>nsis for· confusing them. I d<J not want your statement 'a bave > to pe accepted as my com- men tM·y even thoUgh I am sure the majority of the students in a ttrzvlan<>c knew exactlv what I meant. Arthur O'Lo-ug-hlin '60 - - -------0--- Elections ... 4CJn~ inued f1·om Pag-e 1 > on b<lth tht• Junior Prom Commit- tf'e and tt-.P I;ndergraduate Alum- ni Dr·ivP Committe£>. E<l ward Ruth. current President of the Student Council congTatu· lated both men and suggested that they both work hard \and put ,-our heart\ into it\ because the job is a VPI y hard one. SpPnePr. running for Secretary. has l1Pf'!l a nwmbn of the Stu- dent Councll for two v<•ars and has be.-.n declt'd to a third. He has heE'n very activf' on manv Council committees and in the Clns~ of 1962. confront him in a Southern com- munity. To help meet this need, financial assistnce provided -by the Field Foundation enabled USNSA to sponsor a weekend meeting of 70 student leaders from all the Southern states in Novem- ber· 1958 and a Southern Student Human Relations Seminar at the Uniwrsity of Illinois in August, 1959. In 1960 the Association ·re- cE-ived an additional $60,000 grant from the Field Foundation for a two yPar Routhern Project ·to in- clude two Southern Seminars, a rea and rPg-ional conferences and •>thE'r programs. Finally, on April 22-23 of this year the Association \Vill sponsor a National Student Conference on the Sit-in Move- ment under a grant from the Ta- conic Foundation of New York City. The Washington, D. C. meeting will afford some 1500 stu- dent leaders an opportunity to learn the nature and goals of the .SouthE:>rn movement and to dis- cuss the responsibilities -of all stu- tl••nts relative to the movement. Thus it is seen that USNSA is, u nd has been since its inception, deeply committed to the belief ~hat racial equality In education and all other phru;e of human ex- Istence is an inaliena>ble, right of citizenrv of the United States and a df>sii·~blc good. The Associa- tion is ,.;ympathetic to the emo- tional pr,oblems whicb are ram- pant but it steadfastly refuses to ~ondone the efforts of· those who p!Pad moderation because they · in tend to do something at all to : rem ow· the barriers which one. American from another simply because God did not endow each of them with the same color. Crbt. the othE'r contPnder for· Secretary. has been a Freshman Orientation Counselor and has also w-orked closely with t-he President of th~ Class of 1961. He has. also been elected to next year':> Student Council. II I i11•1111111 lUI IIIII IIIII ill Ill 11111111111 IU 1 Ill IIUIIIIIII IU 101 I Ill IIIII III IIIIIIIDOIIIII Ilu« n to Louis'. let us go, Lrt the lager freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895- Corner 266 State andErie Blvd. .Large parties acc.ommoclated in our RA.THSKELLER For reservaHons phone FR 4-8917 .................. 1111118111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Friday. Ap.,il 15, 1960 Letter . .. Student Reaction • •• (Cont'inued from Page 5) (Continued from Page 3) rights definitely are !subversive•· out -at a; dl.\ive-in restaurant near Congo was noticed to be wearing dissatisfaction, discontent, dis- in ch<tracter. .A:llen U\niv13rslty anc:l Benedict a choker -of human -al'rii sinew. ·cord and evil ... \Had overtones SO·UTH CAROLINA. ·College. Negro stil·de:p.ts carrying which ate usually found in anti~ Feb. 26-.-Frida.y clubs a~iacke<l the cars at the Although politics be the current American propaganda pieces\ .•• · Orangeburg, ·s. C.: Two ,persons drive-il1' an.d· fled be-fore police fad, it hardly supercedes -the and \lt didn't sound as if it were were arrested when. a group o( a!'rived. necessity of eating men--\though prepared in any Georgia school- young Negroes tri.e!l to demon-, Mia.rclb l~Mo-nday perhaps not as a steady diet\-U or college; nor, in fact, did it strate for the fiecond time at a Colwnb~ .s. c.: Two Negro one aspires to a successful career .. read Iilte it was written even in local variety st'Ore lunch coun- college ,students were arrested this country.\ ter. A wb,ite man and a Negro. after they toolt seats at a white Finally, as proof that the situ- Thursday, March 10 ·were charged. with Hghting. counter. ation is -definitely improving, we Five Negro men and one Negro Feb. 29-Monday ,. .. __ h 1 ,., .., d woman attended a matinee per- Denmark, .S. C.: 14 Negro stu-: ., ...... c · ---~u.es lltY offer the remarkable case of : formance of \My Fair Lady\ at dents Were arrested on disorderly OrangebiU'g, 8 · C~: Three hun- Broka Bota as eVidence of the Municipal Auditorium and sat in conduct charges fo-r ,p.articipa.ting drecl an<! fifty Negro sWdents. · were arrested. in an· incident in progress the enlightened Afri_can reserved seats.· in the ·orchestra in a drug store lunch coun tet sit- · which police brought firehoses has mad·e. As a member of the section. Ther.~ is. an upstairs sec- down. The demonstration lasted· . t . f t\ A d't · d · · ipto play and tear gas. Nearly Parliament foi· the Republr'c Qf . 10n o ,.e u 1 ormrrr reserve only a few minutes and the· stu-. · f N Th · · · 1,000 Negroes marched toward the the Ivory Coast. M. Bota 'W \\. or egroes. · ey were 1dent1- -derits, between 25 and 40 of them,_ te f 0 b T. ~ fl d -cen r o range- urg. here was highly esteemed as one of the e as prurt of the cast of \Fin- were from Vorhees College. t \fi'nest\ law-.nvers l·n the leo-lsJa- ian'::; Rainbow'' • at Atlanta B'ni- MarclJ. 1---Tuesda.y no violence on the part of he · ,. .,. •t c demonstr::ators, newspapers re- ture of a nation w4,lch had just versi y, and came to the perform- Rocl~ Hill, ~; .: A robed 'but un- ported. Governor Holiings called been granted independence by ance to pick up -pointers. They masked Ku Klux Klansman par- f d f th d t ti ·had purchased the -tickets by mail. aded on Main StJ,:eet as a threat or an en · 0 : e emons ra ons; the French. One -recent day, how- The Auditorium manager immedi- to any further demonstrations, and he reiterated his statement ~:ger, a~~e~to~rowmas thnoeticlee~salsatl?Vee- ately declared the block (lf seats. Students of Friendship Junior . that ra.,., enforcement agencies .,- where the Negroes were sitting College here had staged previous would b:ring an end to -demon- session-an unusual event to say a Negro section. At intermission· demonstrations. strations. .. the least. A thorough investig;;~.- he asked the white persons around orangeburg, .S. C.: A:bout 400 OolUJllbia., S. C.: Nine Negro tion was launched and in due the Negroes if they would like students staged a slow, silent students were arrested for seek- course a report was submitted,- It to move. Six did. . march through City streets. The· iilg lunch counter service .. sec>ms that Broka Bota had been Tuesday, Mai'Ch 15 . students came from South 'Caro- Rock:. :Hill, S. 0.: Between 25 killed and eaten by his own Cfrn- Seventy-seven Negroes were ar- !ina State College an-cf Claffin and 70 Negrc> ~tt!dents were ar- stituents-what? not by the oppo- reste-d for particlipating in sit-· College, which have adjacent cam\ rested for picketing the City Hall. s)tion? Oh no, explained the co- doWn demons-trations- involving puses. All students were Negroes Most ol them are from Friend- operative constituents! They sim- 200 s.tudents at ten downto\vn. eat- and carried anti-segregation -signs, ship Junior College. ply admired M. Bota so much lllg places. The11e was no vio- March ~Friday Ma.rch 16-Wednesday that they devoured him for the lence. The sltdowns occurred at Sumter, S. C.: 26 Negro students Trials began for thos 13 students laudable purpose of absorbing his noontime at the State Capitol, from Morris College were arrest- arrested March 15. .. fine\ qualities. Fulton County Court House, At- ed on \breach of the peace\ Conclusion: All is not lost! lanta City Hall, two bus stations, charges for participating in sit- Someday soon we too may benefit two railway stations, and two downs at local dime and drug Hugh AlleiL WllsQIIl, of Glens tremt:ndously from cultur-al ex- buildings housing Federal offices. stores. They refused to leave. FallS w~».s to have pres~nted .a change Wlth the powers of to- GovE-rnor vandiver personally or- upon request of the manager and :Bach Organ Recital on Friday morrow's world. derpd the arrests from a sick be<l were arrested. Eve:ni.,y.g, April 20. The perform- • • Joe Fa.taJ.aa, '60 He said, \these mass violations of March 1>-Satw·day . ane~e :hll.s been postp•oned until State law ahd private property I Columbia, S. C.: Violence broke April 27. - The most difficult puzzle in the world. Do you have a solution? In high school, you may have tho1,1ght you had the solution, only to have it vanish. In college, it may seem well within your grasp, only to vanish again. But this is not unusual. It's a very difficult puzzle. The.puzzle? How to find your life's workt. The solution? It comes only with searching. It may be right under your nose or it may still be far away in the future. But the solution will come. 'You will very probably find it in the work you undertake after college. This has proved true many times at IBM. For instance, young engi- neers and scientists~after learning the scope of IBM activities in research, development and manufacturing-have found their inter- ests leading them into such vital growth fields as microwaves, circuit design, solid state physicS, magnetics and manufactill'ing research. Depending on individual talents and inclinations; a college graduate may acquire skills at IBM that lead to a variety of careers. When a person is able to move into areas where his true interc;:sts lie, and when he has many areas to choose from, it will certainly be easier for him to find his life's work. After all, it's easier to find the solution to The Most Difficult Puzzle in the World when you have access to all the clues. You are invited to ,in11estigate opportunities in Resem•ch, Development, 'M anufac- turing, Programming, and other fields. Your Placement Director can tell you when our representatives will next visit yovr campus. Or you may write to: Manager of Technical Employmeil:t, Dept. 878, lBM Corporation, 590 Madison Avenue, New York 22, N. Y. • .. Exa1 ·scheci PagE lf0 1 1.,. 89, 'I Cam Stu' Gary I came Presi he receive( ning the the StudE Donald _CI :1:92 votes Spencer. Upon 11.-is r that all the ,for election, paign on a stated that good a pr Ruth/' Crist com1 tion as Seer the high J: career.\ He on the adv< the Junior < has been an for two yea Glee Club swimming t Small Out of 11 at Union, a number vo morethanh; election Gr< ing stateme: has conferr great _respo honor -in cl dent for th is not goinl especially n< tue of the rushing al( changes Wl'· than in an:v ~ parable lenl \I shall < powers at the respon1 that the st justified a:t in office in ing a vote < this Monda In the t Religious programs cian Midd concerninl view ·of 11 the Rever of St. Ant son SemiiJ the last : :;;ponsored Club. Emphasil tory, its n more impoJ ern day w• Fa:t:her Fel gion wast< analysis of su-It t:llat 11 have sprull discuss th views of H Basi~ Beginnin, of Hegel, I idea of th€ flict and e lute spirit do:ininen t s Consideri phy of Au; told of the of history- physica;l, a: and went 1 meaning o Ideas is nomic. Consider! Karl Mar:x plained tha becomes m gie betwee· nots of tli this histor: itself-a cc ety. Finally ii Christian ' Feletian ! good and lE other ppil• in this vie'

near the police Negro white hun- in the was the re- called on- Negro seek- 25 ar- Hall. rieild- Glens until Exam Nixon ·sched!lle Me+hods Page 3 Founded at Union CoUege in 1877 V'0 1 L. 89, 'No, 2'2 PRICE ·TEN CENTS Campus Elects Gross l!ifteenMen IFC Enacts Deferred Plan; Student Body Leader A-,e-Chosen V Gary Gross, vice-president of the Class of 1961, be- For Sig·. :maXi. A-P •.. P• ro\ ved By 11 To 6 . ote came President of the Student Council Monday night when he received. 372 votes to William Kirchgasser's 164. Win- ning the Secretaryship the Student Council was Donald Crist who received 192 votes to 17~ for Steven Spencer. Upon his election, Gross stated that all the candidates who l'ah ,for election, conducted their cam· paign on a high I eve!. _He also stated that he hoped ' 1 to be as good a president as Edward Ruth/' Crist commented that his elec-, tion as Secretary was \definitely the high point of my college career.\ He is presently working on the advertising committee of the Junior Class Weekend. Crist has been an orientation ·Counselor for two years,. a member of the Glee Club and a diver on the swimming teani.. Small Number Voted Out of 1010 students enrolled at Union, a comparatively small number voted, 536, or slightly more than half. Shortly after his election Gross issued the follow- ing statement, \The student body has conferred upon me both a great responsibility and a great honor ·in choosing me its presi- dent for the ,coming year. This is not going to be an easy job- especiaUy next year which, by vir- tue of the passage of deferred rushing alone, will see greater changes wrought on this campus than in any other period of ·com- ~ parable length. \I shall endeavor with all the powers at my disposal to fulffll the responsibility given me, so that the student body would ·be justified at the end of my term in office In giving me as resound- ing a vote Qf confidence as it did this Monday night.\ ---o,--- GARY GROSS \Composite\ In elections held yeste1·day afternoon, the Union College chapter of Sigma Xi, na~ tiona! science honor society, announced the awarding of membership to fifteen un- dergraduate stuaents. The following men were elected to the Society of Sigma Xi: Stephen J. Albert, James E. Ande1·son, Robert F. ·Blanchard, J. Robert Buck- ley, Lewis T. Buckman, Eu: gene S. Cloutier, Lewis M. Drusin, Barry J. Hoffer, .Melvin J .Kol'don, Richard F. Kranzmann, JOI'ge Leon, Paul E. O'Neil, Jr., Bernard S. Strauss, Bruce D. Walsh, and Ronald S. Weinstein. Last October 22, Sigma Xi elect- ed three other undergraduates to · membership. These men elected were: John E. Edinge1·, Donald M. Larson and Robert B. Whitson. Dorm Plan Sigma Xi is an honorary fra- . . ternity devoted to recognizing out- d standing achie-vement in the field .Annou Hce· . of science. In addition, the under- 1 II graduate candidates must have By Alfred Sommer attained an index of 3.5 or better. Th(ly are considered for member- ship by the society only upon nomination by a member of Sigma Xi. A series of plans and re- visions that will affect dol'm- itory living during the 1960- 1961 school year were an- nounced by the administra- tion today. These form a ·~composite plait'' that may reorient the status of inde~ pendents and fraternity men Cl alike. ergyrttan Starting this comiJ:.!.g fall, Rich- New members wil! 'be initiated at 6 P.M. on Wednesday, April 27, in the F.a.culty Lounge of Hale House. Following the initiation, the annual Sigma Xi Banquet will be held in thE) dining room. That evening, Dr. Volney WilsQn, a member of the G.E. Research Laboratory, will lecture to a Sig- ma Xi meeting on \Thermionic Converters For Space Vehicles and Atomic Reactors\ at 8 P.M. in EE 22. e •d mond Dormitory will be open for Ons ., ers occupancy as an upperclass dor- . II . I(l.itory. Independents nave •be~!.l :c.:..v\!!-.:: .... ./ ~ ... Sitting above, is Mrs. (,harlotte Rapelje, who will remain Head Registrar in the n~wly combined Recorder-Registrar Office. Standing are Mrs. Elizabeth A. Degroff and Miss Mary Elizabeth Wemple, recently appointed as her assistants, New Consolidated Olfice Headed By Mrs.- Rapelje President Carter Davidson announced yesterday that a major administrative reorganization will go into effect on July 1, involving the consolid~;J,tiov of the present offices of 'the Recorder and Regis- • -- trar into a new office that Mrs. Rapelje, a native of Buf- - By Douglass 1Jlen A handful ·of students vis~ ited the open meeting of the Inter Fraternity . Council Tuesday evening, April 19, while an estimated four hun~ dred more listened· to the meeting over campus radio station WRUC to hear the ·17 members of the IFC first further modify and then ac- cept 11-6 the deferred rush- ing plan originally proposed by Robert Pfeiffer, '61. In attendance at this important meeting was the newly elected President of the Student Body, Gary Gross, John Lubetkin, a lead. ing member of the Inter Fratern· ity-Student Council Joint Rushing Committee, Robert Pfeiffer, orig- inator of the proposed plan, and Administration, representative, new Dean o:t' Students 0. Edward Pollock. After a motion made by IFC Member Arnold Klappas of Sigma Phi that the deferred rush ... ing issue be opened for discussion, an amendment was proposed by Gene Schleh of Sigma Chi \that deferred rushing shall not apply to transfer students above the level of. freshman.\ This amend- ment, to help the transfer stu- dent who would become neither a member of the freshman class or his own class the first sem· ester if subjected to deferred rushing, was passed unanimously. VaAJatiOn Rides Permitted wm· assume the duties that falo, is one of the senior mem- both offices now perform. ters of Union's sba.ff and faculty. She first came to the campus of As a result of the reorgan- the bounding bror>k in 1917, sta.rt- ization, Mrs. Charlotte M. ing as a ~ecretary in the Admis- Rapelje, Mrs. Elizabeth A. sions Office. In 1943 she was DeGroff, and Miss Mary given the rank of Administrative Mr. Schleh next proposed that an addition ,be made to the clause that freshmen cannot ride in the private vehicles of fraternity men, to read \with the exception of going to and coming from home on the three official college holi· days, Thanksgiving, Christmas and between semesters.\ This proposal was carried 15-2. El , b th W 1 'll Assistant and since 1947 she has lZa e emp e Wl as- held the post of Registrar. While sume new positions. serving as registrar she has also Since the death of Miss Frances been a member of the College Ad- Travis earlier this year.., the post ministration. Ch • • • given first preference in the se· r 'lst'lan\lty !ection of r,Poms. Because of the · II II . II · · large complement of lounges, .this Founded at Cornell University of Recorder has been vacant. Miss Wemple, who holds a in November ~f 1886, Sigma Xi When the new combined office- Bachelor of Science degree from is a society dedicated to the ad- goes into operaUon, Mrs. Char- Russel Sage College, came to vancement of study and research lotte M. Rapelje will assume the ·Union as a member of the secre- in the fields of science and en- head position, with the title of· tarial staff. she has held the gineering. Union's chapter, · in- Registrar, and will hold a posi- rank of Administrative Assistant stalled in 1887, is the third oldest tion on the Administrative Staff. since 1951. Presently assistant to in the country. Associate mem- -Assisting her will be Mrs. Eliza- o. Edward Polloc'k, Dean of Stu- ,bers are elected on the basis of beth A. DeGroff and Miss Mary dents, her main responsibility in academic accomplishment and Elizabeth Wem;>le, each holding the new office wlU be in the arj!a A third modification, made by Blaize Coolte of Delta Chi read, \There shall be any f-orm of con- tact b~tween new students and fraternity men during the first semester with the exception tha,t no new student shall be -invited to any meals at any fraternity house.\ Cooke argued that with- out a. more open rushing system freshmen would know no more about the houses than in a non- defatTed rushing ·system. John Lubetkin countered this argu- ment by saying that the Joint Committee had considered this ... type of deferred rushing and had .found it too great and unsure a step to take at this time. The .motion was voted upon and de- feated 1-14. was interpreted as a .ste}l by the In the third of a Series of administration towards easing Religious Emphasis Week the social problem of the inde- programs the Reverend Feli- pendants. cian Middigan read a paper The second phase of this plan includes the complete renovation concerning the Christian of South Collegfl. A tentative date view ·of history, written by has been set for a year from June, the Reverend Owen Bennett indicating that it also will be promise of future research ability. the title of Assistant Registrar. of academic rec01•ds. f St A th ' th H d open for upperclass occupancy 0 • . n ony S on e U - this fall. The plans include the Tiier Town 5 Slated Mrs. DeGroff, who like Miss Wemple is a. native of the city of Schenectady, has held a secretar- ial position in the Registrar's Of- son Seminary. This progr~m, complete gutting of the 156 year the last in the series, was old dormitory, and starting with ~rponsored by the Newman the fireproofed empty shell, a \I think that this should be the biggest and best Club. modern interior will fice since 1942. In her new posi-, tion as an Assistant Registrar, she will be primarily responsible Roger Bacon, of Phi Sigma be built. weekend that Union College has seen in years,\ stated Emphasizing the idea that nis· Gary Grogs, Chairman of the Junior Spring Weekend, to for class scheduling. Kappa, next proposed the atnend- tory, its meaning and goal, are Fraternity Problem &lved be held May 6th and 7th. more important~n()W, in our To solve the fraternity housing h · d \th ill b ern day world, than ever before, problem, the \plan\ calls for the .emp astze ' ·ere W e Father Felician stated that reli- construction o.f two dormitories, top flight, grade A enter- gion was too often left out of our each composed of two separate tainment on both nights.\ analysis of History with the re- uni·ts. This would !'lrovide iiving The festivities will start at 7:30 suit tllat many erroneous beliefs ,and eating quarters for members on Friday night with an Inter- have sprung up. He went on to of four Houses presently situated· fraternity ·Sing. Following that, discuss three of these modern off campus. _ Stan Rubin and his Tiger Town views of History.- Dean Pollock announced that Five will entertain at the Van these physical changes will be Curler Hotel until 1 A. M. Ath- Basi(l Idea Expla.ined accompanied by revisions in the letic events and fraternity cock- Beginning with the philosophy Dormitory Counsellor system. tail .parties will highlight Satur- of Hegel, he explained its basic That the name \Counsellor\ itself day afternoon, while in the even- idea of the eternal dialectic 'con- has been chosen to replace \:proc- ing the Hi·Lo's will perform in flict ap.d emergence Of the abso- tor,\ is an indication of the new Memoria! Chapel. Rather than lute spirit in the form of the role they will play. As the sys-: sacrifice the quality'of .entertain- dominant state in the world. tern • will stand, each ·dormitory ment of one night for that of the Considering next the philoso- will be supplied with one head other, \high quality entertain• phy of Au~st Comte, the· priest 'counsellor. This student will 'be ment will be presented on both toid of the three Comptian stages ed with a free room, and the nights,\ added Gross. of history-the Theological, Meta- • t to evening meals at the eafe- physica;l, aild Positivistic states- teria. Under each of these stu.- Played at Royal Wedding and went on to explain that the dents will be the individual Goun- Very popular in collegiate meaning of history under these senors, wl,1o will be in charge of circles thr.oughout the country, ideas is completely Socio-Eco- tbeir immediate floor or section. Stan Rubin h~ been playing and nomic. They will be entitled to free room conducting\ dance bands since Considering lastly the ideas of for the duration of their service. grade school. In 1951 he organ- Karl Mar:l!;, Father Fellitian ex- blanks are available ized a jazz band which eventually . plained that here Hegel's dialeetlc any upperclassmen interested. came to i;le linown as the Tiger becomes materialistic in a strug- obtaining such a positifrn.- Town Five at Princeton. The gle between the haves and have- Included in the new Counsellory twenty-five year old band leader no·ts of the world. The end of system, is the movement of Mr. · has entertained al suc!l places as this history iswithin the history Arthur Lawrence to Richmond :l'Llaxim's on the French Riviera; itself-a completely classless soei· House .as the faculty advisor. The The 1955 Newport Jazz Festival; ety. is presently seek- Prince Raniei· and Grace Kelly's Finally in discussing the J;udeo- ing a faculty member to re:place Wedding .in M-onaco; and at Car- Christian view of history, Father him at West College. negie Hall. In 1956 he exp11.nded Feletian stated that only the The last phase of the reVision- his group to include not only a good and legitimate aspects of the ary- dormitory pian, includes ·jazz band but also a dance band. other ppilosophies are possessed powers for the newly or- Stan Rubin explained, \I guess I in this view, (Con~l'liUed on Page 6) am just a lover of Swing. Orig- STAN RUBIN \' o ment that \the deferred rushing Cand 1 /dates N ·amed· program include an eating sched- ule ror the freshmen during the For Colle ,o-:e Bowl fl!·st semester. This schedule is b to break the freshmen up into groups so that each may eat one As the time draws nearer for meal al:. each fraternity chapter. Union;s appearance on the G.E. These- meals are to be paid for \College Bowl\ the number of by the freshman.\ Dean Pollock competing candidates is rapidly. ce>mmented that \such a schedule decreasing. As of now eighteen might be very diffi.cult to operate eligible students have been nar- because of the large number of rowed down from the original 46 meals and people involved.\ Mr. who took the preliminary written Klappas further stated that the examination. freshmen might not find their These students are: AI well, Wil- way to the right house at the liam W. '62; Balta.y, Paul Michael right time, and that it wo~d be '62; Banzhaf, Donald V. !63; Birn- difficult forth() Houses to super- hojz, Jason C. '63; Boclt, Gerald vise and enforce this plan. After N. '62; Brennan, David Joseph '60; furthe1· discussion the amendment Bruce-Briggs, Barry '61; Brun- was defeated 3-12. gart, David L. '61; Casey, Walter H. '60; Hirsch, John D. '61; Littell, • H.a.rp Proposal Defeated · Browne Morgan !60; Lubetkin, M. John '60; Olsen, Richard E. '62; Darrell Harp of Phi Delta Reisman, James '60; Schleh, Gene Theta nllxt proposed that the date P. A. '61; Schub, Michael Allan of the stag parties be deleted and '62; Smith, David L. '6:2; Stein, that there be added, \stag parties j Gary F. '60. From these 18 men in six fraternities the first Fri- the College Bowl Selection -com- day night, six the second Friday . mittee under the chairmanship of night, and five the third Friday Professor Joseph Finkelstein, will nig)lt are to be open to new stu- inaJ.ly I had the six piece group, choose two teams: of four. These dents from 8 P.M. until 1 A.M.\ and I was in Law School· and· two teams will compete against .This modification was defeated wanted to S(l_lXlehow stay in the each ()ther to determine the fuur ' 6 · 1 1. . music business. I felt I had to students and one alternate who Arthur O'Lo\lghlln of Delta Phi expand the group to the extent of can best represent the College on next 'J)roposed to amend the having a flexible orchestra as the program, . clause that states that contact weir as a jazz band.\ Last Tuesday and Wednesday between freshmen and fraternity Tickets for the weekend can be Professor Joseph Finkelstein and men be limited to that which purchased from Junior represen- Mr. Rowan A. Wakefield held a takes place ·at the authorized fra- tatives in fraternity houses and at preliminary oral interview and ternity \rushing\ par,ti·cs and dur- the Student Activities office. exam. · (!Continued ()n Page 6)

2 fir rL ), • • ~nu.rnr 6 · .uteuntn 0 0 ,,,l L ,. lvficu.D\lf' Published Fridays during the ffidltorial Office, Washburn Hall, school year by the Student Body Union College, Publi~ation Of- of Union College, Schet•ectadi!', flee Th\ Gazette Pres~. 334 N. Y. National Advertislqg Rep- State St. Entered in the Sche- reeentatlve: National Advertis- ncctauy Post Office as Second ing Service, Inc.. College Pub- Class Mail Matter, subscription Ushers Representative, 420 Mad- JOe a copy; $2 a year delivered !son Ave., N, 'Y. c. anywhere in the United States ... The Open Door Policy The recent announcement of plans for the improve- ment of the physical dormitory plant at L'nion is the first step in the emancipation of the non-fraternity affiliated dormitory resident. With the appearance of the first ade- quate socia:l facHities, the necessity for revision of Union's archaic sodai1·Ules will once again be dramatieally brought to light. · The image of a newly uplifted dormitory resident re- splendent in a modern fireproof edifice yet unfairly shackled by mid-victol'ian social t•egulations is curiously incongruous at Union. Modifications of the present policy are clearly in order. One suggested change would permit do1mitory in- mates to entertain female guests in their rooms. If the Administration is not yet prepared to accept the premise that social freedom with l'esponsibility is essential at Union, stipulations could be added to define visiting hours, the presence of a specified minimum number of persons in a room or an admonition that the door remain open. The present restrictions on female visitors are both unrealistic and impractical. The eventualities which the regulations see}{ to prevent are no doubt taking place in spite of, and more likely, because of the oppressive re- strictions. Eve was the first but not the last mortal to discover that forbidden fruits a1·e the most desirable. The adaption of enlightened social codes by schools to which Union is often compal'ed has invariably resulted in more mature and responsible social attitudes and conduct at those institutions. A revision of the social regulations is clearly in order and the agency for this change is apparent. Despite in- itial controversy regarding the exact jurisdiction of the newly formed :Dormitor~· Council, the establishment of a new social code is obviously within the realm of that group. It is the responsibility of the Dormitory CouncH to take the initiative in the emancipation of the inde- pendent. Ask the Man Who Pays One \It i.r rmr l1ojr Jub/imt' u , . . •lud/ tl<'hi,·~·,· in tim<' ft, 11/tll.-.- th,· f>unislllrwnt fit tlzr rrimr.\ Although many years have elapsed since the famous team of Gilbert & Sullivan made the above comment on a nineteenth century vindictive judicial system, the musi- cal satirists would be surprised to learn that a parallel exists at Union. As the table below points out, fines for violations of campus parking t·egulations begin at a nominal one dollar, and quickly rise by geometric progression. The twelfth ticket, for exaiT\ple, costs $2048. Because the fines are cumulative, the total amount assessed is equal to one dol- lar less than double the amount of the current ticket. Thus the errant student motorist is assessed a total of $4095 for one dozen tickets. The accounting pe1·iod for the ac- cumulation of these violations is one academic year, dur- ing which the assessment can presumably rise to an in- • finite amount. · Unreasonably high and inappropriate punish~ent is no longer a feature of any of the world's major systems of law. It has been many years, for example, since pick- pocketing was a capital offense and the last debtors' prison disappeared. In addition to the inequities in the present fine sys- tem, the building program planned~ for the :t'uture beauti- fication of the campus will further aggravate the traffic problem. i Cinema Re'iie cOUSins By Murk Ha11delman • The Cousins, a French film movie house in the area, but a which has won Bosley Crowther's common fault in most theatres (movie reviewer for the New today. This reviewer once had York 1'imes) commendation as to sit through an oil company \one of the best foreign pidures commercial .before ·being able to of the year,\ is currently 'being see a top film. There is no ex- featured at the Scotia Art Thea- cuse for copying of television by tre. While we were not quite as the movies. The cartoon appear- taken by the film as wa.s :Mr. ed almost as a Communistic swipe Crowther, we would recommend at capitalism. this picture and rate it very- high- The Cousins is undoubtedly a ly indeed. The story is <>ne of very fine motion picture which wild, reckless a<bandon on one is well worth talting a few hours side a11d of innocence, love and off to see. It is typical of the seribusness on the other. Both high calibre entertainment which are played with equal skill on the the Scotia Art Theatre has been parts of the three headlin-ers, Ger- bringing to the Schenectady area ard Blain, Jean-Claude Eri-aly since it began featuring foreign, and Juliette Mayniel. The superb and the ,better American films. direction in all phases of the pic- o~--- ture was expertly handled by the Dormitory Notice young French talent, Claude C'lla- broi, The assignment of Dormitory Rooms for the coming semester The plot of The Cousins re\olves will 'be done by lot much In the around the ever-present love tri- same manner as last spring. angle, with complications such Rooms will not be assigned in as hedonism, final exams at the blocs this year. Sorbonne, depravity and evil. The Richmond House will be used evil evolves out of cousin Paul <played by Jean-Claude Bria.ly), as an upperclass dormitory, West College and North College the self-made leader of a group will be reserved for incoming \beat\ French university stu<ler.tts. freshmen, Plans for South Oat- The innocent boy from the coun- lege are indefinite at the moment try going to the big city unlver- because of possible renovation sity is cousin Charles <Gerard which has not yet been decided. Blain). The beautiful, and sensu- Students will present their· ous Julliette Mapniel plays the reservation cards to Miss Flem- hypoteneuse in the triangle as lng in the Business ·Office before Florence. a girl whose love of sex May 2, 1960. At the time of pre- makes her unable t'O be faithful senting his card, the student will to Charles, the one she loves. draw a number which will deter- The picture opens as ·Charles mine his place on a list. This list arrives at his cousin's ultra-mod- will 'l:>e posted on the bulletin ern Paris apartment. Paul int:ro- board of Old Cha].lel late Wednes- duces Charles to his \compa- day afternoon, May 4, 1960. Prefer- triots\ the next day, where the ence in drawing tot numbers will country cousin meets, and flips be given to present juniors, then over Florence. Soon after, the present sophomores, and then two meet again at an 'Orgy given present freshmen. However, this by sadistic Paul in the apartment. year assignments for Richmond Unfortunately these scenes ·11ad. to House will he given first to all be cut for American consump- independents according to their tion. Paul actually wears a •bath- class and lot numbers. After ing suit in the shower with Flor- these assignments have been ence. The short romance (for made, men with fraternity affilia- that is all it manages to become) tions will tlien be assigned exist- is finally ·broken up by Paul a.nd ing vacancies in the same man- his partner in crime, Clovis, vv:ho ner-according to their class and convince Florence that she -could lot number ON TUESDAY, MAY never be happy with \mamma's 10, 1960, AT 6:30 P.M. in the OLD boy\ Charles, Pa:ul takes it u~n CHAPEL, assignment of rooms himself to save these two f1•om will be made. The student hav= each other, and makes Flo.:rence ing the lowest. number will have his mistress. Naturally this de- first choice and so on down the presses Charles, who shuts hi.Dl- list. Students who wish to room self of£, from his cousin's so-ciety, together may do so-the room- and becomes a complete \grind.\ mate having the !'Ower number Tfue Cousins, it should be noted,. choosing the room when it is his is not Chabrol's way of placi:ng turn, and the other being auto- the wrongs of the world before matically cancelled off tJ:ie list. the movie-goer so' that they tnay It will be necessary for each stu- be seen and hopefully corrected. dent to be present at this time, Instead, he has managed to ca.tch or he will lose his place on t}Je a contemporary mood, and has list. The new Student Council can .expand its realm of activity and perform a service to the college community by establishing a committee to assist the Administration in the operation of a student tmffic court and a long range traffic study prog-ram. . had the good taste not t'O try to We believe this method to- be judge it moralistically. His ac- equitable. We urge all dormitory tors reflect to the viewer tbe in- residents to cooperate and make ner strife we all have felt' a.t one this work to the benefit of all con- time or other, while presenting ~erned. to the world a relatively ·calm ex- In accordance with the college terior. This makes the picture policy for housing students set more than just another love sto:ry. forth in the catalog, all students \The excellent photography furth- are required to live in the -college er compliments Chabrol's wmk.. dormitories with the foll:owing ex- On the same hill with T1te ceptions: 'I ' No. of Tickets An1t. of Fine I I 1 $1 2 2 . 3 ' 4 I. 4 8 I 5 16 6 32 7 64 8 128 9 \ 256 10 512 11 1024 12 2048 Cumulative Tot. Due $1 3 7 15 31 63 127 255 5.11 1023 2047 4095 I Cousi.ps i.s a cartoon and a ridicu- a. Married students. lous 'short' (we thank those re- b. Students living at home or sponsible for this); featuring- a in fraternity houses. famous Canadian figure skater. c. Students excused .. by Mr. With all due respect to her (vre SchmiQ.t who are working for have to admit she is an excellent their rooms. skater and Canada can be proud) d. Students excused by Dean of the Allee in W'Onderland ballet Students for other reasons. she performed did not go 1vith (PENALTY FOR VIOLATION the feature presentation. We hope OF THIS RULE WILL BE IN to see' better 'shorts' in the fu- THE AMOUNT OF ONE SEMES- ture. TER'S ROOM RENT OF $150) The cartoon, a Woody W()Od- Married students, students liv- pecker scene, was entertaining ing at home or In fraternity 'but we had to ask, \'What's wro:ng houses are excused. O-ther stu- with sho;wing adult cartoons (a.nd dents who have reason to be ex- 'shorts') during an obvi~usly cused by the Dean of l;ltudents or adult movie?\ However, this is· Mr. Schmidt are requested to ar- not a fault only of the Scotia Art range for such permission before Theatre, which Is the superiorcommencement. Friday, April ,1 '5, 1960 Androcles and the Lion By Dr. Cad Niemeye1• Like ali Shaw's plays, '\An- Cannon. The c;;tsting of Eddie drocles· and the Lion,\ the cur- Joe J'ohnson as Ferrovius was a rent presentation of The M·ounte- minor inspiration. Ed1Vin Far- banJxs, is half play and half ser- reH's _Emperor was sttitably- de- mon, It is effective as both, but Gadent; George Di Cenz·o's Cap- The Mountebanks have-and per- tain lacked military stiffness and haps it is just as well-chpsen to obtuseness- which may or may play it as farce. Sometimes the not be a complim.ent. 'i\her.e wel'e fat'Ce is ,pretty strong, as ,for in\ nice bits con.ti'ibuted b:y Willialtl stance when one of the insouciant Allen as a Ce~turion and· Gerald early Cb,J'istians is seen with a Spielman as a Roman .patrician. camera slung around his nee!{, The Thursday night pre-view taking pictures of the Coliseum; audience was in a mood to. be for a.ll the world like an Amer, amused and laughed hearti-ly, ican tourist, On Qther,. happier sometimes Indiscriminately, Cl~ar­ occasions the farce is legith;nate ly, however, this was better than and effective, as .Jn the recogni- that they should not laug-h at ·au. tion SC!ene between Andwcles The actors would hav-e done a (play-ed' by Robert Skloot) and good job with a ·less xesponsive the Lion !played by David Ather- audience; but with this one they ton). Pa1Jt >of the difficulty of the did a,n even better 9ne. ()bviously, broadly farcical approach is that \Androcles\ is a good play 'to go some •().f the sermonizing gets to if you want to see something lost. This is too oad. Shaw's ser- funny, especially i.f you do not mons ,a,re as trenchant as his mind taking away something' to dramatic instinct is sure. He was think about afterwards_ a wit, not a' zany;. a wise man who chose to spe·ak in dramatic parables, not a court jester. It is right that after seE)ing \Andro- cles\ the audienc·e leave the thea- tre well entertained, but they should a:lso leave it mindful of what Shaw has said about the power of :faith and the meaning of Christian humility. Pr<Hiucti()n Lauded Having granted the Mounte- banks the right to play Shaw as broadly as they please, the critic can only .conclude by saying that this production was well done. Singlin15 out the actors for indi- vidual mention may be unfair, since it is a truism in that so much Is done by those invisible to the audience. Still, since the actors ·finally bear the responsi- bility, th.ey should get most of the glory. The directors were lucky in both. their Androcles, who made up in deftness and timing what he lacked in physical scrawniness, and their Lion, who pushed anthropomorphism a lit- tle far but was certainly funny. Lavinia, who ·must utter most of Shaw's ideas, was played with charm and freshness by Lainie 160 LAFAYETTE ST. \Where Chapel meets Lafayette\ FRanklin 2-0 501 ' Best Service in Town Schuhl , Esso Service 715 Nott St. Come in and Fill Up with the Best Gas in Town SCOTIA -ART NOW THRU WED. THEATRE AT 7 AND CJ :05 \'ABSOLUTE HEDONISM WITH SHOCKING CANDOR . BEAUTIFULLY PLAYED -.HARD TO FORGET.\ of the Years Foreign Films\ ~N. Y. TIMES III::IIU:IIIIIllllllll!:ltl::l~\li•Ui,!:''fll: ' '1: ·A.i!il,l;::r'!J,UI~~~~~II1:11!J 1 ~~~<). l~:i .. ~::llilli!Jii:::~:i;;w;\w 'llirl•lll:t;,, ,: . llw: ot'J• :!it;.''.i r;;;i!i:.!:JUI/I]Jil!rli!f!IIIIIJt}I[IIIIJIIWIIIIIIUIIIIII UNION PHARMACY \Drugs and Fountain Service\ FR~E DELIVERY It. Alau Bleser 600 Union St. FR 4-3605 50 UNI15 La BOUNTY'S LAUNDERETTE Washers-25c for I() lb. Dryers.:...... ICc for 4() I b. ONE 'BLO'CK WEST O'F CAMPUS Cor. Park Pl. and South Av-e. Open 24 hours a dav 7 days a week FREET. V. Colonie Motel Special Low Rates to Union College UNion 9·8944 ·UNion· 9.9945 10 Minutes fron1 the Campus Midway Afbany-'Schenectad\f Road II I II IOU Ul alii 0 UUIII IU I IIIII U U II II 1n111 I 0 Ul8 Ill I I\ I II II I Ill 11 II I IJ I U I II I I aU JIIO 1111·-_==_=======:' Down to Louis', let !JS tgo, = Let r he lager freely flow. 1\ U!lique place to dine with old Eu:r:opean Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 __:_Corner 26b State .!'lnd Erie Btvd. L'a,.ge parties acc:ommodcted in ou,. RATHS,KELLER For reservations phone 'FR 4-8917 I Jlllllllllllla II~ •111111 UIIIIIJI~IIIIIIIIIIJIII!iliiiiiJ 1111.11111111 .fliilllli•Jiiiiiiiii.IIIIII:J~a. FINAL s Seeon:d S· Examlnati the FIELD wise directe Fil:lal Ex:1 (Graphics) , Graphics) w laat cl3,ss p1 Conflicts should be rE in the Pea1 !IIay, May 6, Tlhu 1:00 - 3:00 : Air Sciel Ba:sic) ·Air Seier. Basi•c)• Air Scien• vanced) :A:ir Selene vanced) Fr 8:00 - 10:00 _English 1 (~ecs, 5 (Sees, 1 3, 9 to 1 English 1 GovernmE Com par S.S.--49 (~ ChemistiJ ganic) Geology 1 graphy 2S Psycholo:~ chology Clini:cal M.E. 35 I M.E. 40 ( G_ill. SO: A. tool Nix The cane hous Nixor thing In I President 1 cal career. the use of riique he Repre!lenta 1950, :Mr. N campaign nickname c in- this ra smeared Douglas. : lated amo: the purpo: Douglas a Vito Marc Representl: the Comrn all fairnes1 Nixon ha~ -respansiblE is a genu wasn't res ble fer the <lent. The1 genuine bility tha wasn't res ble at all. ever, o·n 'forced to der when Ni:X:on did such state as \Of • Helen G. las isn't a munist, b1 exactly tl Marean to I £act, she Public He ahd the 1 Democrat! This. blata NiXon tb Rigl::tt W! Party. Tb then, \Th warded D Ei~>enhoW• 1902. The 1952 was triumph was In th F-ree P

Eddie was a Far- de- Cap- ss and may weve to. be Clear- than at ·all. a e they 'to go not ing' to ST. ms\ IMES llilllllllllillllllll v. oad 1 - , 3 . And Death Shall H·a ve No Dominion FINAL EXAMINATION SVHEDULE Seton~ Septester - 1959 ~ (JO · Examinations will be held in the FIEl:.J) HOUS;E unless other- : wise directed. 11:30 A.M, - 1:SO P.M. Sociology !Bb (Introductory Sociology) Hist:ory 2Qb (Medieva~ Europe) E. 42 (En~ineering Manage- ment) C.E. 43 (Sanitary Engineering)' 3:00 - 5:00 P.M. S.S. 4olb (Business It'luctuations, Forecasting, & Government Po]1cy) · Biology 22b (General Physiol- ogy) Physic\i 32 (Thermodynamics and Kinetic Theory) E. 41 (Engineering Law) Biology 23a (Nervous System) M.E. 34 (.Analytics of M11,.chine I Elements) M.E. 50 (Fluid Machinery) 3:00 - 5:00 P:M:. Spanish 2Gb (Spanish Anterican Literature) Mathematics 25b (Theory ·of Equations and Abstract. Alge- bra) C.E. 40b (Structural Theot~y) 3:00 - 5:00 P.M. English 26b <Modern English · Literature) · History 26b <Constitutional His• tory of England) Philosophy 51b <Contemporary British Philosophic'al Prob- lems) - Sociology 69 (Minorities) Chemistry 22Jb lPhysical-3 hrs.> Geology 14b (Paleontology - in G.:t. 23 Final Ex:am·inations ·in :ID. lOb (Graphics) ai:J:d E. 20b (Advanced . - French SOb (French Civilization 3:00- 5:00P.M. History 27b <Modern and Con- temporary :Britain) Economics 43b (Economics ·of Transportation) E. 43 (Basic Structures) C.E. 30 <Structut·es) Gr~phics) will be given during the· of the 19th and 2oth Qenturies) last class periods. Comparative Literature 25)l (In- Conflicts in Examinations should be reported to Miss Bouck in the ;bean's Office before Frl~ !lfay, May 6, 1!;1(J0, 'Iili~day, May 19 1:00 - 3:00 P;M, . Air Science lb Ba:sic) (First Year troduction to the Study of Cotnp. Lit.) Government 12b <Introduction to Government) Sociology 31 ({:lulture and Per- sonality) Mathematics 21b <:Differential Equations) Matnematics 27. (Complex Var- iable and Vector Analysis) E.E. 22 (Alternating-Cl.\rrent Circuits) S.S. 50b (Social and Political Philosophy) Biology lb (GeneJ;al) Biology 6b (Human Biology) . Biology llb <Zoology and <:orn- parative Anatomy) Geology 2lb (Mineralogy and Crystallography) in G.L. 23 Education 4b (Special Methods) M.E. SOb (Applied Thennody• namics and Heat Transfer) M.E. 31b (Thermodynamics)'- in G.E. 303 History 32b <Social and Intel- leetual History of tlie U.S.) Chemistry 25b (Advanceil: An- alytical) Psychology 12b (Statistical llli:ethods) Phychology 27 (Theory and Practice of Mental Te:;~ting) E. 21a (Analytical MeC'hanicsl - 1st Sem. E. 21b (Analytical Mechanics) -2nd Sem. M.E. 45 <Mechanism Dynamics) Biology l2b (Botany) Chemistt-y lb (General) Sees. 1, 4, 5 to C.L. 201) (Sec. 10 t:o E.E. 22) Chemistry llb (Quantitative An- a1ysis) Wednesda.y, May 25 8:00 - 10:()0 A.M. T.hutsday, May 26 8:00 - 10:00 A.M. English 12b (American Litera- ture) French lb <Elementary) German lb <Elementary) Spanish lb (Elementary) Music 24b (Music Literature English. 19th <The· Drama) from Classical to Modern Government 28b <American Times) in M.C. · Constitutional Dcv.elopmentl Mathematics '22b (Calculus :;tnd Physics 4b (Classical & Modern. Solid Analytic Geometry) ·Air Science 2b (Second Year Basic): · Ab: Science 3b (First Year Ad- vanced) E.E. 24 (Alternating-Current Circuits and Machinery) E.E. 41 (Energy Conversion in MoB.da.y, M~ty 23 8:00 - 10:00 A.M. Tuesday, lllay 24: 8:()0 - 10:00 A.M. Physics) (Sees. 1, 6 to C. L. M.E. 47 <Automatic Control of\' '201.) (Sees. 2, 7 tu E.E. 22) Mechanical System) Physics Ub rAtomic and Nu- clear Physics) 11:30 A.M. - 1 :SO 'P.M. .A:ir Science ~b (Sec:ond Year Ad- · vanced) Frlilay, M~ 20 8;00 - 10:00 A. M. _ English lb (Freshman English') \ (~ecs. 5, 6, '8, 14 to C'. L. 201) . (Sees. 1,. 4, 7 to E.E. 22) (Seas. 3, 9 to d'.E. 106) English llb (Shakesyeare) Government 42b (Seminar in Comparative Government) S.S.--49 (Statistics) A.C . .Systems> · Saturday, May 21 8:00 • 10:00 A.J.\1. English 501:) (American Civiliza- tion) · - History 19b (Introduiltion to · English History) History 24b (History of Latin America) Economics 40b (.Accounthi.g) Chemistry 21b (Physic;J.! - 5 'hrs.) Mathematics 4a (Calculus I- . 1st Seni..) • Mathematics 4b (Calculus I- . 2nd Se!ll.) (Sees. 1, 4 to E.E .. 22) Humanities lb (Study of Maj. Wks. of Lit., Arch, and Art) - in o,c, History 21•b <Modern and Con-• temporary Europe) Geology 23b (Glacial Geology) Mathematics 3b (Fundamental Mathemati-cs) Mathemati-cs lla (Integra;! Cal- <mlus-lst S'em.) Mathematics llb (Integral Cal- culus - 2nd Sem.) Mathematics 12b (DifferentiaL. and Integral Calculus) E;E. 31 (Advanced Circuits) E.E. 48 (Computer Circuits ~d Components) Economics 'llb (.Elementat>y) · (Sees. 4, 5 to E.E. 22-) . Economics 391:> (Interna tiona! Physics 25b <Principles of Elec- Economics 38b l Corporation tronics) Finance - Current Financing) Physi'cs 26 (Introduction to Government 48b <Public Admin- Electromagnetic Waves) istrationl Trade and Exchange) Religion 6lb (The Apocryplla and the New Testament) -Religion 62b .(Religions ()f the 11:30 A.l\'1. - 1:30 P.M. English 21b <The Renaissance 1400-1630) Chemistry 24 (Chemical and Scientific Literatuve) Psychology lb <General) (Sees. 5, 6 to C.L. 201) (Se-c. 4 to E.E. 22) Far East). Chemistry 27 (Colloid) Geology 2b <..Engineering) Physics 34 (E!ectroinagnet!c Waves) E.E. 33 {Engineering ~Jectron­ ics) M.E. 36 (Flu.id Dyna-mics) 11:30 A.M. - 1:30 P.M. Logic lOb <Logic and Scientific Method) Philos'Ophy 17b <Introduction to Philosophy) Philosophy 29b <History of Ideas in Western Civilization) Psychology llb <Psychology of Personality) E.E. 43 <High Frequency Com- munication Electronics) 3:00 - 5:00 P.M.. English 22b <Milton) Cheniistry 31 (.Advanced Inor- ganic) Geology 12b (Geology & Physio- grap·hy of the U.S.)-in G.L. 23 Physics 22 (Physical Optics) Education 3)l (Principles of :Ed- ucati<m) 11:30 A.~.- 1:30 P.M. Latin. llb (Reading of Selected I Prose) S.S. 36b (Economic Growth in Underdeveloped Areas) Sociology 57 (Compiuative Soc- ial Institutions) French 20b <Introduction to French Literature) German lOb <Second Year) German 20b <Contemporary German) Psychology 24b (Applied Psy- chology; Industrial, Business, Clini:cal) ~ 11:30 A.M. -1:30 :P.M. M.E. 35 (Heat Transfer) M.E, 40 (Power Generation) In .. G.E. 301 A look At 'Tricky Dick' Latin 1b ~Elements of Latin) Greek lb (Elements 'Of Greek) Greek llb (Intermediate · Course) F·rench lOb (Second Year) Nixon Methods Exami~ed By Donal~ D. Ma.eDonald The candidacy of Richard Mil- exposed Dean Acheson, Harry hous Nixon is as certain as any- Truman, the Democratic Party, . thing in politics can be. Vice- the State department, and the President Nixon began his politi- Bill of Rights for what they were; ca.J career. in 1946, when, through ''soft on Communism.\ He cQ,lled the use of the- Red Smear tech- the Korean War first fruitless and · riique he defeated· his opponent unnecessary an(( then m<tintained Representative Jerry Voorhis.· In that the \decision to .go into 1950, ;Mr. NiXon waged the famous Korea w~ right.\ On October 5, campaign which earned him the 1952, he issued a statement to a· nickname of \Dirty Dick\ ... _rt was · grotip of Polish Americans stat- in this race that he ruthlessly ing \that Poland is fihackled · by smeared Mrs. Helen Gabagan it!'l Communist masters because Douglas. Pink slips were circu- of the shameful Yalta agree- . lated among the electorate with merit.\ He went on record advo- the purpose of identifying Mrs. eating repudiation of all war-ti~;ne Douglas as a fellow traveler of agreements. History has shown Vito Marcantonio (a New York how foolhardy NiXon's proposi- Representative who usually voted the Communist Party Line), In (Continued on Page 6) all fairness it must be noted that Nixon has always denied being -responsible for the incident. There is a genuine possibility ·that he wasn't responsi- ble f<Jr the inci- dent. There is a genuine possi- bility that he wasn't responsi- ble at all. J;Iow- ever, o·n e is 'forced to won~ der when ':Mr. NiX:on did make such as \Of Helen G. las isn't a Com~ munist but she does vote' almost exact!; the same way as Vito Marcantonio.\ .As a matter of . fact, she did vote the same on Public Housing, Social Security, ' and the lilre, as did most of the Dem<Jcratic members of Congress. This blatant demagoguery earned Nixon the admiration of the Right Wing of the Republican Party. This wing, as it was called . then, \The Christian Front,\ re- warded Dick 'Qy naming him. as Eise:nhoWer's running mate in 1902. The Presidential election of l!l52 was the first real national . lllllilliiii.-iiilrri6 I Don't Care What the ... Weather Is- I must get to Maurice B. Graubart & Sons 'Jewelers, 166 Jay St. Serving Union students for 3 g~nerati~n-s. triumph for Senator Nixon. It · was in 'this campaign that Nixon '----------------' FERRO'S RESTAURANT ~ ' English iOb (Introduction to English Literatpre) · Art 25b (Histm;y of Art) - in Old Chapel Economics 37b (La;bor Unions and Collective .Bargaining) Government 47b (The U.S. and World Politics) Russian lOb !Second Yea·rl History 16b (History of t-he · U.S.) Mathematics· 31b <Advanced Calcu.lus) C.K 32: (Route Design) History 33b (The U.S. .tn the 20th Century) 3:00 - 5:00 :P.M. Chemistry 12b (Organic) - in. ·I History lb (Histor-y of Western C.L. 201 ~Civilization) Sees. 1, 3 to C.L. Geology lb (General) 201) (Sees. 2, 4 to E.E. 22) German 30b (German Classic- ism and Romanticism) Spanish lOb (Second Year) E- 31 <Mec·hanics of Materials) E. 32 (Physical Metallurgy) DON'T LET THE MONTH OF JUNE~ COME TOO SOON It's an important month for you .•. and for IBM See your Placement Officer for mare information. If we have already interviewed on this campus, and you did not get to see us., please write or call: S.pet-kJiizing in ltalian-Americcrn Food .I· June may marlt the start of a career of rapid advancementforyou with IBM. We need ambitious college graduates, with good scholastic records, for careers in direct and indirect marketing, ap- plied .science, programming, systems, and other areas. We've been expanding rapidly •.•. an<l we promote from within. Whether you're majoring in engineering, scienc~, math, business administration. or liberal arts, you should know about IBM and what we havec to offer, Mr. P. B. Hazard, Branch Manager International Business Machines Corporation 426 franklin Street, Schenectady 5, N.Y. Telephone: FRanklin 7-8521 Discount for tJnion Students 20c on the dollar -- .:..._ --~ PIZZA F-ree Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. IBM ® DATA PROCESSING DIVISION

4 'Friday, April 22, 1-960 Letters To The Editor I · . ·E h.b·. d: ADVERTISEMENT To the Editor of Concordiensis:@------ Expressionists : X . l . Ite • In the April 15, '1960 edition of has nothing on which to vote but By Paul Turner· p. ·.··ET··· :'.:.E .. ('o;ni!.ordiensis, there were numer- personalities, and democracy is ,, ous articles condemning the ac- abused. If future elections ex- The .present exhibition in the ing. Tile result is a rhythmic, tions of white segregationists from hi bit the same deplorable decep- Old Chapel presents work by Sara Klee-like play of lines, containing- the Up of South Africa to our tions, the student government Sholnik and Arthur Newman, two ·the elusive suggestion ·Of a small ·· G L s s own United Sta:te::;. This condem· should abolish the present sys- at·tists who, though tthey follow face. T·he same theme ·of repose, STE:I·N · ' 1 A' . nation would be very fine indeed tern. A school-wide popularity different artistic paths, share the and harmony arising from chaos, . . . ; . , I, · ·. ···... . . · if we at Union College could •boast contest should ·be held, or better common experience of having which is so simply stated in this that our hou~e is free ft•om all still, a king should be chosen for studied under Union College art dt·awing, pervades all of Mrs. disct·imina:tion. But uhfortuuately one of the proms, and he should. professors. . Skolnik's works to a greater or it isn't. automatically be instated as Pres- Sara Skolnik, who had studied lesser degree, r\en her more ex- 'L·o· o·Ks· of T·~~rr~~~~t~cr\~~;ie~~~~~~~s c~~~~~~; ~~~~ltw~fy,t~~eSj~;~~tgo~~~ilbot~ . ~i~~l§6,b:~o;~:~~:e ~a~t=t~~~ f.~~~~~;,is~~o~:i~~~l~ie~ucf~r-!: .· . • •. · . ' \. • ' the action of the administt·ation er of \campaigning\ would be d and uninhabited colors all sorne- b f t t der professors Bruce Gregory an in 'limiting the nutn er o s u- avoided and candidates would no . . hl how conspire to produce a.n or- · dt•nt:s who are entering the col· put the~selves up for embarrass-· Wayne Nowack, has etg · een dered .entity, without surrender- AT' works in the present show, rang-, lege· who are memb.,r:; of minor- mPnt .bN•ausP of their ideas.· . . d' . fr m t'nl' and wash ing any of their explosive activ- . . . · ·' · t on , 3 tng 1n n1e 1un1 o · .. · 't . tty group\ ull' Y OUI' earnpu:; c - PP\tt-.r Y. Sussman, 6 drawings to watercolor, casein, 1 y. . sider·ably and should be the focal .. * * * . . , and oil paintings. Her style al .. so ()r!ginality Abowtds point of criticism by the Con- T th Ed t f Concordiensls L'Ordiensis and b.\' the :Studt'nt 0 · e. . 1 ?~' 0 • ~ shows a great deal of variety, At a time wnen the une.xpur- Aftet rP,ulmg thE> articles con being sumetimes merely playful t d 1 d b · f ('ounejJ, and not llw actions of eNning St•gr·eg'ation in the South !as in \Danny's Airplane and Oth- r: e ~xr,ress 0~ an atn~ 0 people 15Uu mill'.< from 'herP. in last \'\'\k's C'on<'·OI'fliPm;is, I er Objects\) sometimes calm and b. e ar ls s stoh~. -seemf s of·t~vhe .If wt•, th•· ::\t udent Body, could f It bl' t d t write and pre- • . ecome some mg o . a e I:S • fo 1 ·Inuiat.P and put into action a <' 0 tga P f 1 ° '.- ... h. ld ·b. almost meditative !\Porcelam which at times is engaged in f·ran- .'<'llt som<' o t\' '\VIis c ) Cracks\)· sometimes colorfully t· 11. · · h th b def:ntte plan aboh:;t11ng all fra- . l'b, , 1 ~ · H South Be· • . . . ·tea y, even wen ere may · e I<' lilt tv t·c•st net!\'<· cla·Ust>s, and man~ 1 ·' r,t · m. \' · · · and expresstomsttcally exuberant little of interest to express it is rng lll\'~l'lf \ rt'srdent of Btrmmg· 1 \Bioga\ and \Images\) and of- T t · t· · ' h · 1 foree. tht• Admtntstr·atton to ac- hant, .Alabama, for the past fif. tPn possE>ssing a unique' and elu- exbct tndg . o ~ee pat? .mgl't VI lC; C't>pt stutl••nts on nwnt and not t 1 h· , 11 ·t ned to these ' · a oun s m Vlgor, ortgma 1 y, anu. .put a tjUota on tho~ .. of minority c•en year~: a\,. : e . t· 11 ~ive. almost surrealistic or mysti- a sincere joie de vivre. Southl'rn tdPas on Integra !On ~ cal quality, in which the viewer.. . : groups, ttwn WP would have• takPn t hrout::h my schooling. and whtle S!'t>S shapes metamorphose from It ts perhaps un~ortunate for a ginnt >lt·p Ill tht· lllkgration of 1 don't ~omph·t<'IY agTeP ·wttl.~ tlw reco~nizab!e objects to abstract 1 the othe; ·pamter 111 t~e sh<Jw, all peoph·:-< TIIt·n and only then \\\th•·• 11 vi,·w. 1 [•n·s•·nt tht· tdea\. form::;, and back again, and sym- .I Arthur Newman, that h1s works could\'' ci lli('IZe !lit· wltite ::\uuth· ; 1 ,. 1 .,. fot· what-.th<·•· are worth \t 1 . t nd dt's . should be eXhibited next to th~se · \ J . )U tc :;up·gt.·~ 1on.s etnerge a ~ 1 • \'\'''' '\\ho '\\L't <•n ·'•·g.,·,·gatloit. 1 supposp th<' IIlll'lll tlung the 'C 1 f fa . at I of such a bold and sure artist as l , t 1 1 1 )\\'n · · f appear 1n a cornp l'K. o sc1n .. ., _ ~ . 'k M N h Ill \'' \''\ 11 up .. ,,.' ;-;.,llth, 111 IILti,Il \\ould a~k o lll1\' detatl. SaraSkolnl'. r. ewro.an,wo hou>\t' h••rc• at •l'ni<>n, w•• cannot tl;u,.., who favor dcsegratron Is ,.., studted under Paul Burlm here ridicule the disct·iminating prac- :t littll' more consideration for the Technique is Deliberate at_ Union, before gr~duating ib. Uces of other people, for if we white man. While this may seem 195·5, seems to be gomg throagh do we are nothing but a pack of it·onic after all we have heard Despite these differences, Mrs. that painful period of grop'ing hypocrites which is far· worse c·oncerning the atrocities endured Skolnik's work possesses the same for a truly personal style. .Al- than those Southerners who are by the Negro for the past hun- deliberateness of handling and ~hough this g~·oping see':ls t? be fighting for what they believe is dred years, this view has some competent surety, qualities which m several different duecttons, right. thought behind it, as I hope will all painters know are impossible one theme is expressed in Robert Marld'ield, '61 become obvious later on in this to fot·ge. One is immediately of his paintings in the \.IUu.lc•u--.1 * * * letter. aware of an unhesitating direct- the imbuing of a single obj'eat For a fine example of wha-t an intelligent photog- rapher can do with a camera, why don't you take a look at the cunent issue of LIFE, sold at your nearest friendly newsstand. Although we hesitate to guarantee the quality of the text included below, a picture is worth, etc., and LIFE has printed more than one shot that :tnay show up in a Museum of Modem Art Exhibit some- time in the future. To the Editor of Concordiensis: Many thinking Southerners be- ness, and a kind of honesty in with an almost mystical and .an,_ A democratic form of govern- lieve that ncithe!' the white man her bold, unfal·tering brush- thi\opomorthic life-essence of its men t is useless if the responsi- nor the Negro is prepared for strokes. Typical of this boldness own. There is, for example, \The 1. d the t'ntegratt'on called for t'n the is \Light Pathways,\ whose warm, Rose,\ a sens1'tively conceived bilities it entails arc not 1ve up \th to. I believe that in the recent South. The white is lost -in old, dark background is covered Wl painting of a single flower in a school-wide elections for Presi- worn-out ideas of segregation, white shapes and lines with twist, vase, and \Portrait the simple dent of the Student Council these and often believes that 'he is ere- flow, and contort into strange, profile of a girl, who seerrrs to d d t ated Sup .,,.,· or to ·the Negro. life-like forms and patterns, pro- belong more to the realms of gods responsibilities were eva e , no L f 1 . · · b h Such l ·deas do not vanish with ducing an overall ee mg rennms- and fantasio•, than to reality, But so much by the voters, as Y t e f M k T b • ~ candidates themselves. a Supreme Court decision. Ideas cent of some 0 ar 0 ey s probably the most successful Is In a democracy, where freedom such as these are as deeply ·in- \white writing,\ but possessing a \Sea Life,\ whose tender :hand- of speech and thought arc allow- grained in the Southerner as re- unique organic quality of growth ling and vibrant coloration ·give ed, and individuals have the right iigion seems to ·be ingrained in and movement. the simple subject a separate and to know that their vote for the our society, and just as a par- Another of the qualities pos- significant existence. candidate of l'heit• choice will ticular religion can serve as a sessed by all of Mrs. Skolnik's Ol--- count. then it is the duty of can- justification in itself .for actions work is its ability to arouse in the didates to openly express their based upon much lower !deals, viewer dffferent and changing im- vie..,..·s on important issues. If so the tradition of segregation pressions of real objects-a qual- candidates don't feel they have serves as a justification for sur- ity of undefined but suggestive opinions ot· ideas, they have no prPssing the Negro, while the reality, lying somewhere between ri;;ht running for office and de- •·eal reasons may be those of fear pure abstraction and clearly- cei\\ing the electorate. . or greed. Remove the fear or apparent realism. In this Union election, the un- greed or any other real basis for fortunate circumstance arose that suppression. and the segregation Througl1 the Eyes or Mind? neither presidential candidate had will probably vanish. But this We had the pleasure of speak- any opinions, or, if he did, they calls for a total reform of our ing briefly with Mrs. Skolnik at wer·e not openly expressed. In whole society, a·nd laudable as the opening of the exhibition, and suc;l an plrction, the student body this may be, it seems impossible. she made the provocative state- Therefore, we must try to change ment that ·she never painted any- the \religion\-the justification- thing she didn't see. Despite the Friday NHe Till Nine or at least make it appear so fact that the word \see\ can en- ridiculous that even the most compass the artist's interpre.tive bigoted can't really believe it. imaginatiun, one recognizes a One can show the Southerner close bond, or perhaps relation- that his belief is wrong in anum- ship, with nature and reality, in ber o.f ways. By raising the stand-. Mrs. Skolnik's work. She de- ards of the Negro in the South scribed for us, for example, the through the means already avail- genesis of her in~ drawing \For- able, i.ntegration can be achieved. eelain Cracks.\ According to her, If filthy, run-down colored sec- she once owned an old stove ti'ons, and terribly sub-standard whose cracked surface fascinat- literacy rates among Southern Ne- ed her; when the stove had to be grocs are horrifying to the North- disposed of, she used the pattern ern visitor, they certainly horrify of cracks as the basis of a draw- the Southerner just as much when he pictures his children and him- self associating on an equal basis Jewish History To Be Discus~·ed Dr. Sidney B. Hoenig, Professor· of Jewish History at Yeshiva U'ni- versity, will lecture on the to:pic '~elving into the Jewish Past to- Understand the Present\ in Nem- orial Chapel this Sunday, April 24, at 8 P.M. The College is -co- sponS'Oring this program. in the Educational and Cultural Sel'ies of the Jewish Community Cente!'. The lecture will be followed by questions a.nd discussions. Dr. Hoenig, Director of the Yeshiva University Department of Adult Education, Community Ser- vice ,Division, was 'born in New York City. He received his B.S.S. from the College of the City of New York and was ordained by Yeshiva University's Rab.bi Jsaac Elchanan Theological Seminary. He has his Ph.D. from Dropsie College. He joined the fac11lty of Yeshiva University in 1934. TI4NIVILLIZBR with the Negroes who result from these conditions. But how does one alleviate a situation in order to convince a man that he's wrong, when the man is actually causing the situation himself? The Southern liBeral's answer is to allow the Government to use the few means it already has TWIN-FREEZE 'The stripes of this soft knit· ted shirt are on the quiet side to be as restful on the eyes as the shil t is restful on a gent! e· man'$ back. The boat line of t.he neck is a fashion detail held in high opl?..roval by all. From $3.95 :llalt~ 1599 UPPER UNION ST. 9:30-b P.M. Thurs. & Fri. till 9 P. M. available. Thus the Southerner must be shown that he is wrong ·by meth- ods acceptable to him if integra- tion is to be a reality. We must reappraise our policies in the South and attempt to work with, instead of against,., the Southern white, even if this entails at pres- ent the contii:mance of segrega- tion. By taking a few steps back- ward we might attain a better perspective and footing on which to then precede in the fight for human dignity. John Huels '62 AND CHARCOAL PIT 'JUST ACRO'SS THE BRI'DGE IN SCOTIA \Wishes to Thank All You Students for the Fine Patronage We Receive Every Noon and Evening.\ Open 12 Noon 'Till 11 P. M. Daily Jay Jewelry Co. 315 STATE STREET Diamonds. • • Purchased in Belgiu.m and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. Arnold Fisher '50 Music Memos The most masterful pho- tography in the mag~zine is to be found in a pictorial coverage of the moods and many facets of New York City's Carnegie Hall,. a historic music )lall which may soon be tom down fdl<Jwing tha completion of the Lincoln quare Arts, Ceilte:r. A campaign is currently being car- ried out hy many ()f the hall's f~tithful patrons to prevent the demolition of Carnegie, although it is doubtful that they w()u!d be qttite so energetic about the project if they were second-balcon;y dwellers instead of steady residents of t:he Dress Cirele,. and LIFE's photos should warm their heaJ'ts. ::foe Wind in the Willows .Otb.ers, perhaps Messrs. McKim, Mead and· White among them, might not be so fond of the moody pictures that are called f(n•th by a study of Carnegie, and would prefer instead, S()me._ very pretty, and quite naturalistic, scenes from oiJe o,f America's many beautiful seational the South. It seems that .there are still enough remaining from the Old South's days of glory to \~nT even the n.·1ost demanding tbUrist with the fruit a su:ccessfuJ toar. Of course, one has to carefully plan any tour of the South to avoid several less than esthetic sights and per- llaps disturbing events, but if one follows LIFE's handy g;uide, \8() places t<J stop, what to do there,\ we're sure a. pleasa11t time will be had by all. In any case, the photos included in the ctuYellt issue ate certainly an enticing lure. The C~llege Publicity Scene While. U ni<Jn c<>n tinues tq valiantly plan its method of attack for the :forthcoming \College Qu-lz Bowl\ appear- ance, an event whieh, in the words of one prominent pro- .... fessor, ma.y well i;un out to be the most disastrous pub- licit;y stunt for the College since the \Atoms for Peace Exhibit/' Sarah La:wrence College has calmly chptured a full-sized article in LIFE, a magazine with a weekly cir- culation of 6,700,(){);0, And they did it simply by having enough foresight to i.nftiate an extremely. interesting re- search project in J.>uerto Rico ca'rried out by a group of extremely phot<Jg~mic females (particularly in color). Al- though the la1·gest photograph of the aJ.·ticle covers one of the recess activities of the girls, sandwiched in between the fun and fr<llics are seveml indications that the pro- ject was .difficult, s.tudiqus and rewarding. Hall's Hints lf you like to read the words too, then for your un.:. usuaLinterests LIFE has in- cluded a l'et:rospective, some- what sentimental, . yet in- formative article about the changes that have occurred in practical politics over the course of the career of Mr. Leonard Hall, the former na- tional chairman of the G. 0. P. The article is actually excel'pted from a .;forthcom- ing book by Mr. Hall, a fea- ture that LIFE has used with no mean success.in the past~ Here's LIFE, April 25, 1960. Frld'!Y• Apri Un~ Se~ Mi~~ E Friday's pr· . Tony ~ ance last 1 season oper Unior. jun: lead- in the E \Humphrey\ gled, Mitc'he Semo and ~ load the bast Into a force With two ( jammed, Mik center field Kranzmann t end the Inn In the t: :walked, went reached firs Wort'h.erspoor bases. Mite! fly baJl to lei Pelton with Union scored the fifth inr gled and S1 into the tra< score Mitche a perfect thr center field i to cut off : tempting to 1 on a fly ball lided with t aged to110ld tlie put-out. Pi tel Tiska SCI among the one hit in 1 in the eighth hits, with E apiece. ca: played an eJ shortste>p wi was a well-] both cJu:bs, f ers; but Un the pitching ·pled with s Garnet .gain the yotmg s worst game Coach Lawt• ~·r called t1 time the ru· at second.\ Box: score UNION Kranzmann, Pelton, 3b Tiska, p Wortherspo< Mitchell, ss Semo, cf Thurston, 21 Hayden, rf Kopec, c Totals Line s<iOl'( HOBART \:]NION wP-Tiska LP-Upper Riding on bart on Fri ball team 1 club on Sati second gam Sure 1 Bill Wei! m,ound for '\!P five r~n fore retirm arm. Ron the lhird frmnes, ·giv hits. \The but the Cm thing Ron • hen f·inishe( ing 'II; sing! and Weiga three Cl:arn• Red\ went game was the way af· arm troiibl

of at we the ted may of pho- is rial and York car- that they their to fruit the per- andy sure lure. pear- pro- pub- a cir- re- of AI- pro- the in- the Mr. G. rea- the 25, \ FrldC!Y, AprillS, 1960 Union Nine Wins I Collegiate Lacrosse: Season Debut 4-0· The American Game Mi~e Kop~k lays one down between th-e baselines in last Friday's pre~mere pe~formiUlce on Alexander Field. By Steven Dickerman Lacrosse is an .American game, dominated through- out the world by American players. The game appeared on the in- i> - --- - - ---- terco!legiate scene in 1881 and I today many secondary s;hools The two\ center midfielders face and' more than fifty colleges, .pri- ·each other as the ball is dropped marily in New England and the to the ground between their sticks. Middle Atlantic States, f.ield teams' And the game is off. annually. Procedure Com.sidered Due to the unusual stamina re- quired, the Indian tribes used la- Thel'c are many ins -and outs of the game. For instance, in an crosse as a tr:aining measure for attack, one or two forewards will war. Perha]:ls unconsciously, we · have also, for West Point ·and: often be behind the cage, feeding A the ball to their teammates. In ·n~apolis take tlieir game very this instance, there are almost 'Serwusly and each of these ser- vice institutions have sufficlen t always some of the attacking team'$ midfielders present in the ~ersonnel out annually to organ- h 1ze several squad:;;. orn ut· wheel ·around the cage. Attributes Nf.edPd A tea~ must always have four It .is a fast moving a 11 _ ~en on 1ts half of the field. This . . . . g me, ca lis oftell mad d'ff' It b I 1ng for stamma, bram power·, as e 1 lCU y a p ay- well as great teamwork. As in et l ti) being in the penalty box: any • other sport, proficiency in He cannot be replaced, ot· sent the game can best be reached by buck into the game, until his pen- growing up with it. However, alty time ~s ~P· Thus a_ team unlike most others any singlt· often Iilays short one or even physical' attr·ibut.·. 'such as a 11 1 more Payers. . 1 ability to run well. catch or· en- i All tn all, lac1·?sse 1; a hard d-ure hard pia ' can .ver .well be, ht~tmg, fast movmg gar~w. cas- used to build YUJl u ~ooJ luo·oss•·llly. l.''a~·ncd (With much stlckwod-t playet·. In fact it ·ha b . d 1 .[Jwcttc..:e I to Lc playc<.l \ell by that \the game 'calls f s t~n ~al _ );r\\.nb.orns. And, once seen play- ing power of cross·cooru t e s tahy · ~d, 1t rarely loses the spectator's n ry, e mterest charge and block of football the · ~--o>--- Stickmen Opener Provides First Victory in 30 Tries 5 finesse -of hockey and tennis ~om- By Steven Dioker.rna.n By Harvey H.ayden bined with the tactics of·b~sket- Kefz Honeful Illi its \home inaugural\ the Garnet ten scored a de- . Tony Ti~ka turned. in a three-hit pitching perform- ball.\ Thus, almost anyone who '.1:' cisive victory over Stevens this past Qaturday. Coming up ance last Fl'lday enabhng the Garnet nine to grab the. h<LS any athletic awareness at all, 6y Leslie M.arrus f b h. d Y Season Open . ell from Hnbart 4 ._ 0 _ can play and. enjoy lacrosse. Th rom e m early in the game, the stickmen soon grabbed \ The game is played on an area e Garnet track team will and held' their lead, winding• -------~ -- ~------ Unior. jumped into an early• about the size of a soccer field. usher in their Spring season this \th 8 6 d th lead . 1'n the seco d · · R Saturd t 3 00 p M · t up Wl an - e ge OVer e stickmen bowed 6-2, afte1· a vory - n mnmg as on . At either end of the playing area ay, a : · ., agams , ' \Humphrey\ Wortherspoon sin- . The ball club has a week to get are the two teams' cages. As in Hamilton College. The meet will visitors. hard fight, ·to C-Conference gled, Mitc'hell }lopped up and mto shape for games this Friday soccer~ each cage is protected by be held on the Alexander Field A moderately sized crowd saw champs M.I.T. Union's zone-style Semo and Thurston walked to with Hamilton on Alexander Field a goalie. . However, unlike \fuss- track. AI August score three times, Ed of play was overcome by the \fac- load the bases. Hayden then hit and Satu:day at Rochester. Next ball,\ lacrosse cages are situated \We'll be an eight to ten point Reichart and John Welch twice tory's\ man-for-man playing. The into a force play at the plate. week Umon meets Clarkson a foreward of the end boundaries. underdog against Hamilton,\ was each, and Ed Lazar once. One· of Dutchman's defense work was With two out and the sacks on Tuesday and plays host to a Th' 11 f Coach Bill Ketz's considered Union's goals was scored when good for the first half, with Gerry th d 1s a ows or con~iderable plav z jammed, Mike Kopec singled into ne-;oom.er on e sohe ule, Drew behind the cages. \ opinion. \The team has been the visitor's perturbed goalie Immerman and Ed Lazar scar- center field and Union led 2-(). Un1vers1ty, on Thursday. This Players Cited l'ounding into shape very slowly. dropped the ball in his own net. ing a goal apiece, AI August got Kranzmann then grounded out to Wlll present a tough schedule of Besides the goalie, there are I don't think they will really hit Union goalie John Campani held an assist for Lazar's tally, end the inning. games for the Dutchmen, and the nine other players. Three fore- their stride for another three off Stevens with twenty-one Cornell Wins Again In the third inning Pelton players hope that they can get wards act as attack men and weeks. It's just unfortunate that saves. The following Wednesday, April walked, went to seco.nd as Tiska back in the win column -and pick operate on the opponent!! h~lf of we ar·e meeting Hamilton in the Union scored its eight goals in 13, the Dutchmen dropped a 14-1 rea-ched first on an error and up where they left off against the field, There aJ'e three mid- beginning of the season,\ Hamil-, 36 tries. Stevens tried 33 times to decision against Cornell. DeSpite Wort'herspoon vralked to Io~d the Hobart last Friday. fielders who often also score. ton will provide the thin-clads score its six. , his · outstanding work, the Big bases. Mitchell 'then hit a lofty Line score: ' They move back and forth over roughest competition this year. The visitors grabbed two goal~ Rep. almost buried John Campani fly ball to left field to bring home UNION 000 000 000- 0 the ~center third of the field Ketz will again be plagued by in the early part of the first under a 70 shot offense, The Pelton with the third Uni'on run. CORNELL 212 208 4lx-20 playing both the defense and of~ ·a lack of depth, with only 19 men quarter. Union stlckmen made it stickmen rallied slightly in the Union scored their fourth run in UNION: Weigand Worther- fense. Then, there are the three eligible for competition. Injuries 3-3 by the end of that period. last quarter, scoring their only the fifth inning as Mitchell sin- spoon (3),. Cohen (3l,'Kopec. defense men, who aid, or if need llave onlY further increased Big Garnet's Game goal of the game. gled and Sern~ belted a triple CORNELL: Fuller McDowell be, even replace, the goalie in the Bill's problems. Star hurdler John It was Garnet's game for the The Garnet stickmen put up a into the track in right center to (4), McCelvi (7), Beggs. course of play. Gerken may not see acti<m next two quarters, featuring a furious defense against front score ~itchell, SemQ also made WP-Fuller. The players use a stick to catch against the Continentals. Ed Gen- 7-4 lead by the end of the half, running Williams, this past Wed- a perfect throw to the plate from LP-Weigand. cradle, and throw the ball. It tile, in the high ju~p, needs more and fine defensive work by Bob nesday, before being snowed center field in the seventh inning has a triangular netting at one time to get rid of his \basketJball Fuller, Ed Buchwald, Warren under by a relentless attack. The to cut off Kerley who was at- u • H end. ankle.\ Garnet broadjumper and Bagatell, and of course John Ephmen turned in their poorest tempting to score from third bas€ nton.. arpur Set Although lacrosse has been past sprint ace, Lew Roht, who Campani. showing against Union in the on a fly ball. Catcher Kopec col- called \Murder on the Lawn\ has been having trou·bJe with his The last quarter ended in a see- past three years. lideci. with the runner but man- TOp'S Tenm··S Card . and \Mayhem at Midday,\ the ankle, has not been able to get saw affair, with neither side aged to-hold onto the -ball to make amount and degree of injuries are within a foot of his n'Ormai' dist- scoring. tlie put-out. By Robellt Sherwin far less than in other body-con- ance. Ed Nichols won't ·be able Coach Allison said that he was pitching- Suntilme A strong and 1 experienced ag- tact sports. The game is an hour to compete in the pole vault be- \plaa.sed with the work of most t f U · t in length, and 1'n the c~u»se of cause of a previous commitment. everyone.\ This was the long- Tisk tt d th h ·t grega eo mon ne men will ·gar- ~ • H. · t f rt a sea ere ree 'l s nlsh the Harpur College tennis the four quarters, there often JS SIS er un o unately planned awaited game which put the among the Hobart batters witl! courts on Saturday, A'pril 23, when seems to be -a continuous steam her wedding without consulting stickmen in the longed for win one hit in the seventh and two the Garnet commence another of players moving on and off the the track schedule. column. in the eighth. Union collecte4 sbt A th field. The weight events will provide Bruce Boyler, Stevens m 1 'df 1 'eld- hit 't . ti ,.,., season. I ough the campaign th ..-. t · th s, Wl h Sl:X .men get n,.,. one is quite young, it appears that Penal 'Code Noted e -...arne Wl some much<- er, scored four goals for the He- apiece. Captain Dave Mitchell the 1960 edition of the tennis 'Phis, besides being due to the needed points. And as the grey- boken engineers, The school en- played an excellent ball game at squad is one of the finest Union strain of a hard moving s}lort, is ing, mustachi-oed track coach put tered Saturday's game with a 1-3 shortstop with seven assists. This has ever produced. also caused by a stringent rule it \We :;;houldn'tl discount Hoff- record, losing 12-3 to M. I. T., was a well-play-ed ball game, by The new mentor, Carl Witzel, system. This system penalizes man and Jurejevics.\ Backing Period score: both clulbs, for their season open- hopes that his \Witzelkids\ can players for infractions much as fP {~e ~tars will be Gordy Rein old Stevens ...... , . . . 3 1 2 0- 6 t ers; biut Union had the edge in prove as good on the courts as bockey does. (There is a penalty bnu e. wtohinile an<l;IDave Tewks- Union .... , , .. , . , . 3 4 1 o- 8 he p tching department and ·COU- box, with a p'layer usually spend- ry m e one m1 e. * ·,\- * t they do on :paper. Leading the S · th ·pled with some timely hi s th.e parade of the sneaker-clad ing about thirty to six:ty seconds ummmg up e prospects for Tomorrow Union meets Hamil- Garnet •gained their first win of charges will be Jay Vanneck, per- in it). These infractions range the comin-g season ~tz said, \If ton on the lacrosse field at 3:30 the young season. \I played the ennial number-one singles man. from such things as slashing with we can win half our meets we F. M. It promises to be a strongly worst game of .anyone,\ chuckled Vanneck_'ll fine _ground strokes, the stick, or body checking from will be doing very well.\ Ex-, fought game, with the Garnet Coach Lawrence after the game. - the rear, to us 1 'ng what has been pressing rare optimism he -added h · h good reactions, an~ C()urt agility th t \ h av1ng every c ance of carrying ~·r called three steals and each t_ermed improper language. In a w en we get to the State 1 ·t off. make him a dangerous ~pponent. Me t h Id b II' time the runner was thrown out T fact, there are so many rules pre~ e we s ou · e ro mg right t d , he second tennis spot will be along.\ a secon · ' filled by Br1.1ce Lawton wh-o is v.enting \unnecessary. roughness,\ Box seore: not only an outstanding player, that most injuries are caused ac- Two * * * Saturdays ago, Union UNION a..b. r. h. p.o. a. e. but has fine competitive spirit, cidentally, or >by awkwardness. Kranzmann, If 4 0 1 3 0 () an essential for victory. Van- During a game the ball is us- Felton, :tl> 3 1 0 2 0 0 neck alld Lawton will combine ually worked up and down the Tiska, p 3 0 0 1 2 1 their talents to produce the top field ·by either running with it in Wortherspoon, 1b 3 0 1·10 3 0 doubles team. 1 the stick, or by using short Mitchell, ss 3 1 1 2 7 0 Position!! Enumerated throws. Long passes are open to Semo, cf g 1 1 2 1 0 toQ easy interception. Thurston, 2b 3 1 1 2 2 0 John Honey, a hard working The ball is never touched with Hayden, rf 4 0 0 a 0 0 junior, Lou Buckman, the team the hands. Even th~ goalie must Kopec, c 3 . 0 1 2 0 0 captain, Sulko Schalm, and Jay use his stick, When he wants, Totals 27 4 6 27 15 1 Ehlen, will probably play in the he can ward off shots with his Line score~ third, fourth, fifth, and sixth posi- body as well as with b.ls stick. HOBART 000 000 OO(}-{) tlons. While the second duo will The game starts with a pairing VNION 021 010 OOx--4 be -composed of junior, Eric Green- off across the field, excluding of wl>-Tiska bl.lSh and Honey. Schalm and course the goalies, of the players. · Buckman will team. up in the LP-Upper third kpot. With the a~dition of -7<· * * .Schalm and Giovanni Grazianni, this year's tennis team will be Riding on a 4c-O victory over H-e- adorned with an international bart on Friday, the Garnet base- flavor, Solka from Holland and ball team met a strong Cornell Giovanni froin Rome, Italy, are club on Saturday and dropped the two of the foreign students par- second game of the season 20-0. ti-cipating in Union's HELP pro, S'Ore Weigand Retires · ·.gram. Bin Weigand started on the Now that coach Witzet has m,ound for the losers and gave aligned his forces for the coming J,lp five runs in 2 2/3 innings be- season, the team should be set fore retiring In .favor of a sore for their encounter on Saturday. arm. Ron Wo:rtherspoon pitchEd The netmen are hoping to get the '\hird through the eighth by Har}lur, 1but must then face an frames, -giving up 14 runs on 13 excellent Syr!J,cuse squad, which hits. \The Spoon 11 pitched well beat the Glarnet 8-llast year. Un- 'bi:lt. the Cornell batters hi't every- lon will enter the contest as a thing Ron had to offer. Bill Co- definite underdog, however Wit- hen finished th.e last inning yield- zel asserted that \we should give ing a single run. Tiska, Evans, Syracuse an interesting afternoon. and Weigand collected the only We have a chance against al!rtost three Garnet hits while the \Bi•g anyone.\ Red\ went on a 16-hit spree. T.he . Will the Du.tchmen J.ive up to game was a n:ne-sided affair ali their fine potential? In a month the wa.y after Weigand developed both Witzel and Union will know arm troiible in the third. the answer. When In New York Visii(!H~ipp 14 E. 44th St. • New York 17, N.Y •. MUrray Hill 7·0850 · · L. G. BALFOUR 00. CA:R'L S0 1 REN'SEN BADGES- RJNOS- FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFI'S STA'l.'IONERY • PROGRAMS (JLUB PINS - :KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIE$ Write or Call- Fraternity Jewelers 171 Marshall St., ~use, N.Y. PhOJie Granite 5-'ts:l7 ,;. .......... * .. ;, ... D lAM ANTE Restaurant and Bar Visit Our New Dining Room A Place fo G.o fo Relax Opp. The Brownell Gate on Not+ St. Open Daily 10 to 3 A.M. Sundays 5 to 3 A.M. r··-----·------------·-·-----·-----;,·-.---..·-·--·-;;.·------·----------------,~ ~ : 1 i j OFfiCIAL PROM FLORIST ! i : 1 I I PARK FLORIST .I ! Call FR 4-9713 for Your Corsage I ~ ~ ! : ! 20°/o Discount i : : : : I I ' ! Open Til 6_· o'Cioc 1 • :, 1 , l 126 S. Brandywine Ave. i ' ' ' I I ~ ~ k•••~••••-••~•••••••w•••••••~•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••M••••••••••••••j Friday Nite Till Nine BERMUDA SHORTS This favodte length in shoJ:tS goes a long way toward pro• viding summer comfort for th,e leisure gentleman, We will furnish this fashion in a handsome variety to suit your own good taate. 3alt':$' 1599 UPPER UNION ST. 9:30-6 P.M. Thurs. & Fri. till 9 P. M.

6 :Friday, April 22, 1960 · Nixon Methods .. ·• Deferred 'Ru· sh· ;n· ·g ·a'ba!ldoned begian,ing September, have neither advocated nor op- \ 1960. The motion was carded po~ed the propo13al 'but ·have left , • • • · le~O; it ·entirely up. to the membe.vs of <Continued from Page 3) <!> -----~~~- {Continued from Page 1) • The final motio.n -of the even- the J:FC and their respective tions were. If we had repudiated success. In fact, the Republicans ing college extracurricular activi- no abstentations. The six Houses lng wa,s made by Mr. Harp who Houses. Now that it has passed the Yalta agreement, only force did best in the areas where Nixon ties. Be proposed to add that who voted' against the proposal moved that deferred rushing be I hope aU Houses will a;bide by would have kept West Berlin. didn't visit at a!!. This campaign \conversation that talt:es .place on were Kappa Alpha Phi Delta tried· for a three year minimum it-because It is definitely a Work- free. The Yalta agreement is earned him the nickname or' campus ·between freshmen and Theta, Phi Sigma D~lta, Phi Sig-· per.tod. However, 'because the .able plan;\ now the legal means to ke(!p \Tricky Dick\ because of' his fre- fraternity men ·be permitted pro- ma Kappa, Psi Upsilon, and Theta : I~C can ·at any time modify a,ny West Berlin free. The V.tce-Pres- quent changes of mind on the· vided that fraternities and any Delta Chi. - ·part of the rushihg plan, Harp's . ident does have his human sid·e. · crucial issues of the day, The· .. particular fraternity .are. not dis- proposal WaS cr.Hicized as !bein,g Several section -·editor and IFd President Leo Dunn said k b • · This aspect of the Nixon person- question is not whether Mr. Nixon· cussed.\ O'Loughlin stated that th_at he would serrd a letter .to· unwor a le. 0 Loughlin moved · staff positions for the 1961 . · ality was illustrated in the fam-' is the best candidate available this would tend to promote a to table. it indefinitely;. The mo:: ·GARNET ar· e· no.w open. In. - . the Student <Jo.un-cil to notify tl · d 12 2 ous election fund ,;Ca.ndal of 1952. · Lul th~ ••riiuto eun~>iderit.liun fur· more friendly a:lnlD:>phe>i'e and on was ·carne · - · ter· ested· \.tuden· ts <>.re asked· to .- them of our dec-ision.\ He then , .... . Evidence had been uncovered the American people must be:: that it was further needed ·be- At the conclusion o.f the meet- · h . asked for any new business. · · cmtta.ct .Charles Evans at : s owmg- that Nixon had accepted can the country risk having cause in many cases the business , ing Dean Pollock {lommented, ' large amounts of money from· Nixon in the White House in of extracurricular activities is ' Mr. Levenson moved t1J.<tt the· \Thank God this has been de-. D~lta UpsUon: before April 29. MV~~ ri~ =P~~~ Th~e v~w ~ m~~~meM =d u~ cm~ct~ @~We llie n~mal o_r_i_e_n_~_t_i_o_n_.~~~~=t=e~m=l=·t~y-=~=u=r=s~·~b~e~c=W=~=~~.~D=u=n='=n~g~~~t=h=e~p;a:s:t_w~e=~=s~I~~===~==~====~=d contributions to American De- known loyalties. An excellent an-: area. After some discussion the mocracy were unethical to say swer is provided by Richard H. proposal was passed 14-3. the least, and, what was worse, Rovere writing in Harpers Mag- tended to make Nixon a ·liability . azine. \What stands out in con-. Mr. Bacon made the last two to Mr. Eisenhower's campaign. sideration of the whole record is proposals, that the February rush- Senator Nili.on .took,his ca·se to the flexibility that suggests an ing schedule be changed to the the people. He Pxplained that almost total indifference to pol- two we.ek way as 'last year and \every penny of it was used to icy. Nixon's appearance is that that .each IFC president take a pay .for political expenses that I of a politician With an advertis- personal pledge to uphold the · !lid not think should be charged ing man's approach to his wor'l{. t·ules made by the Council. In to the ta-xpayers of the United Policies are products to be sold response to the first proposal States.\ As a mattf'r of fact he the public- this one today, that Pfeiffer stated that the two week couldn't have chargrd the tax- one tomorrow, depending on the rushing schedule was too much payers of the United States for discounts and the state of the of a strain on the freshmen and the expenses he was using the market. He moves from inter- fraternity man alike and that it special \fund for had he wanted vention to anti-intet'Vention with would be unnecessary because the to. Mr. Nixon's appeal was RUC- the same ease and lack of an- ft·eshmen will already know the cesRful and he t·Pmaine(] on thP guish with which a copywriter Houses. The proposal. was de- ticket. might transfet· his loyalties from feated 2 - 13 · The second proposal Camels to Chesterfields.\ was called unnecessa-ry and unin- forrf'ablE>. and wag defeated 1-13. :-.1r. Nixon is th~1t hr:J.nd of poli- tician who pre>fPt's \he>adlinPs to history.'' In 1954, he tried tu rc•- vive Mt:Carthyism and failed mis- t·rah'v Evt•rv Dt>nioCTat IH• Hl'- eus,-d of heini.; \ on Commun- i:-<m\ won Thi\ ~t·ll•ael< did not .t·\·nuragP the Vi<·t·-PrPsid<>nt. In 1956, he was in thet·e pitching with all his old fire. Adlai Stcv- - enson was his usual target for such inuendo as \Who is :-.rr. :0-tevenson to talk about the low road when he is the man who puts his arm around Harry Tru- man?\ The classical inuendo was when he managed to condemn Stevenson for what he might hm·e done if he won in 1952. \I have just been thinking what would have happened if Mr. Stev- enson was president for the last three years. We of course do not know the answer to this question but of these principles I am sure: indecision, weakness, retreat and surrender do not brmg peace in dealing with dictatorial Commun- ism.\ The audience left, believing that Stevenson had been con- victed. In 1958, Mr. Nixon again took the high road charging the Dem- ocrats with socialism and reg!-' mentation.\ The republican dis- aster at the polls was eloquent evidence of the Vice President';; ---0----· Dormitories i('on'i'lued frt.fn PugP ll ganized Dul'luitut·y Council. It ts intended to organize social events for students' housing in the dor- mitories. With thP new social areas available in Richmond House. there will now be material with which this organization can work. Special emphasis will be placed on the Dormitory Council by the newly passed deferred rushing bill. With the Freshmen restrict- ed in their Fraternity affiliations Juring the first semester, the Council may share a good deal of the I'esponsibility of pi\Dviding for their social life. The essence of the new \·com- posite plan\ is a move by the trustees to maintain the residen- tial character of Union College. The provisions prevent any stu- dent from living off campus. The only exceptions from the above rule, a1·e married students, com- muters, and those students able to prove their need is suf.ficient, to warrant their working for an off campus room. Fina,ncial Lo.ss RefuteJl Aft<'r a five minute recess the umewJed deferred ru.shing plan wa\ discussed. Harvey Levenson of Phi S1gma Delta declared that su1ne uf the fraternities would losP a largP amount of money. He estimnte>d that his house would lose a sum of approximately six- teen hundr-ed dollars, and stated tl!at other houses would similarly lose large amounts. Lubetkin questioned Levenson's arithmetic and when as.Sured by him that it was correct commented, \I don't think anything would help your fraternity.\ Mr. O'Loughlin add- ed, \Perhaps you should investi- gate the way you spend money.\ After further discussion in which Lubetkin pointed out that the Jo·int Committee on Rushing had been very careful to insure that the plan would •be economically practical, Mr. Kla-ppas moved that ·the amended deferred rushing proposal be voted upon. The mo- tion to call the question passed 13-3. Vote by Roll Call- The roll call was made with seventeen House Presidents vot- ing either for or against the plan. The proposal was carried 11-6 with .,IIIII II Ill I Ill Ill 101 Ill IIIII Ill I 1141 I 11111111111111111111 I Ill II II II I 1111111 I 111111111 1111111~ Ill Ill 11111111111111111111111111111111111111 llllllllll: SINGER offers SUM'MER EMPLOYMENT WITH OAREER OPPORTUNITY A unique summer employment opportunity with challenging career possibilities, limited only by your ambition and ability, with a \Yell established intemational organization, is available to all undel'- graduates. Work this summer in one of the 1500 branches of the SINGER Sewing Machine Company near your home. Gain valuable business experience while earning salary plus commission. your potential abilities will be developed by our proven training program. Successful men who \vish to finance their education may con- tinue on a part-time basis during school term. All successful men will be given a graduation caree1· oppot·tunity with a chance fo1· ad- vancement in Domestic Sales, Foreign Distl·ibution, Advettising, Engineel\ing Finance, etc. For personal interview, writt>, stating name and location of col- lege, ::u·ea of <lesil'ed employment, course or majot·, and year of g1·aduation, to: SINGER SEWING MACHINE COMPANY SINGER BUILDING 149 Broadway New York 6, New York ATTENTION: MR. F. A. KOLYER Director of Safes Promotion . ' . .,411 1111.111111 II I 1111 II I I II I II I Ul IIIII I II II I II I I 11111111 I II I Ill II II II 111•i I IIi II Ill ill I I IiI I I II IIi Ill it 1 IIIII I i iii Iiiii I il II i1111 tl!llllli II ill I IIi Iii I I till WHAT D'YA HEAR - . IN THE BEST OF CIRCLES? a Leads 1he league for flavor! That's-Schaefer, the beer with the sm.ooth round taste ... never sharp, never flat. It's REAL BEER! It's America's Oldest Lager Beer. THE F •. & M. SCHAEFER BREWING GO., NEW YORK and ALBANY, N. Y. r • VOL. 89. Jazz Wil~ The E With 1~ before S students favora:bl3 Union, of tainment weekend bin and Five\ 011 the \Hi- night h:: that thi: '\best we' has seen One pf 1 Hi-La's, : music ma1 vocal grot the youn,!! adult albu in-the-woe equally f Cocoanut concert st larity is : bridging mercialisn form-son has been first estal plex, har years age number o country major mu: Crea Bandlea covered t: for their now defu style caug voices cor and uniqt corded foJ their first to stardo appearanc musicians ences imr. concerts ' Johnny M as Bird<la Las Vega on the shows, ii Steve A Cloc>ney. Dart11 Frate Four Da requiroo t 1, 1960, bE posed dis~ the Unde: ter-Frater tion comn Delta 'I Deita, Sig are the fo ltX:al bec1 posed dis several oj able to cl fore the If they ca will ibe al tiona! aff The rep tion of soc Some oft discrimim not. The this matt concept o other wor is able to national tei's, a ~ in the na1 Each fr an indivi4 acceptable In the l!gl plication i ternity ir Chairman The re}: re.\'<lertiflc: annual st dent's pie the natior oniY one< feels that to have th letter sub1 fall term, of the pi& Accordil some. feel committee liberal, WE tive as p~ tempted i tical decii

1960· or op- left .of pective }lassed· ide by worll:- and 1961 .. . ~­ to at 29. • • Mayhem Reigns Pa111e 5 VOL. 89, 'No. 23 Founded at Union College in 1877 'SC'HEL'IECTIA'D'Y, N. Y., 'FRIDAY, A:P'RI'L 29, 1960 Perverted Americanism Page 2 PRICE TEN CENTS 1 azz Session Will Feature TheHi-Lo's Academic Honor Society SC Approve~ Coll~ge Hosts Visitors W eekendBtd For Parents' Weekend Of Freshmen Several hundred parents are expected to visit the By John Huels With less than a week left · before Spring Prom,, Union students seem to be reacting favora:bly to the new idea, at. Union, of high quality enter- . tainment. The prospect of a weekend featuring Stan Ru- bin and his \Tiger Town' Five\ on Friday night and the \Hi-Lo's\ on Saturday night has caused comment that this ought to be the '\best weekend Union College bas seen in years.\ One of the featured groups, the· Hi-La's, are unique .in today•s· music market. They are the only vocal group whose appeal reaches the young pop music buyer, the adult album buyer, and the dyed- in-the-wool jazz fan. They are, equally at home playing the Cocoanut Grove, Blrdland, or the concert stage. The Hi-Lo's popu- The newly elected members of Phi Bet!!. Kappa are pictured above. Seated (left to right) are Melvin J. Kordon, Stephen M. Zimme:r<nmn, Lynn H. Ratner, and Paul E. •O'Neil; Jr. Standing (left to right) are Bernard. S. Strauss, Gary F. Stein, Lewis M. Drusfu, and Benjamin Falcigno. Missing w~re Barry J. Hoffer, Peter J. Steinglass, and Joel D. Ticlmor. larity is a result of successfully E l bridging the gap between com- Ph; B·eta Kappa · · ects 11 mercialism and the pure art li form-something no other group • has been able to do. Since they Highest Rank.,ng Senl·OYS first established their new, com-' li 1i , ,. , plex, harmonic singing a few years ago, they have been the Eleven seniors have been elected to membership in number one vocal group in the. Union's Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, national liberal arts country and have won every honor fraternity, Professor Harold A.. Larrabee, chap. major music poll for vocal groups. 4 creates Unique Blend •ter president announced re- Bandleader Jerry Fielding dis- Cl f 1964 cently. All rank within the covered the group and arranged . ass 0· first eighteen in the Class of for their first record date on the 1960 now defunct Trend label. Their H • hi R t d · style caught on at once with their Ig . y a e The following undergraduates voices combining to create a rare were elected to Phi Beta Kappa: and unique blend. Next, they re- B. SAT Test corded for starlight Records, and y Lewi~ M. Drusin, Benja· their first album soared the group min Falcigno, Barry J. Hof- to stardom. Their young, fresh By Stephen Raymond fer, Melvin J, Kordon, Pam appearance plus th~ir superlatidv.e 580 men have been accept- E. O'Neil, Jr., Lynn H. Rat. musicianship captivated au 1- d · • t U • ' G F S · ences immediately. They worlled ed for a IDlSSIOn o mons ner, ary • tern, Peter J. concerts with Judy Garland and Class of 1964 out of the 1364 Steinglass, Joel D. Ticknor, Johnny Mathis, played clubs such applicants received by the and Stephen M. Zimmerman. as Bird!land, the Sahara Hotel, Admissions Office. It is ex- Las Vegas, and have been s~en pected that approximately on the nation's top televisiOn 330 of those accepted will at- shows, including Red Skelton, Steve Allen, and Rosemary tend Union next year. The Clooney. rise of 30 students over this year's freshman class of 300 Dartmouth Scores is attributed to the opening of Richmond dormitory. Fr •ty Cl How does the class of '64 com- ateriU a uses. pare scholastically with that of '63? Although the College Board Four Dartmouth fraternities are math aptitude scores remained at requir~ to go local by September the same level of 650, ·the ver<bal 1 1960 because of nationally im- scores of the class of '64 is con- posed discrimination according to siderably higher. In comparison the Under-Graduate Council-In- to 570 for the present freshman tor-Fraternity Council discrimina- class the avera;ge verbal scores of tlon committee's repott. those accepted for next year is Delta Tau Delta, Phi Gamma exactly 599.999. There were only Deita, Sigma Chi and Sigma· Nu 22 verbal scores below 500 and 2 are the four houses required to go under 450. Among the eleven men elected to Phi Beta Kappa, five also re- ceived membership in Sigma Xi. Winners <Jf the double award were: Drosin, Hoffer, Kordon, O'Neil anci Strauss. The neophytes were chosen by faculty Phi Beta Kappa members, the minim urn requirements being and overall 4.0 index and a cur- riculuro leading to a B.A. or a B.S. degree, The latter require- ment eliminates all engineers from consideration. This year, as last year, all students with the minimum jndex were elected. Of those chosen, five are pre- meds majoring in Division III. Two othern are also premeds, one majoring in Division I, the other in Division II. Phi Beta Kappa, the oldest of the Greek Letter fraternities and the oldest existing learned soci- ety in the country, was founded at William and Mary CoHege in Virginia in 1775. By Barton Kaplan The Freshman bid for Fall Prom, 1960 was accepted by the Student Council at its Tuesday night, April 26 meeting. Presented by Freshman Class President Lawton Morrison, the bid will now be considered by the Student Tax Committee. The proposed prom 'would be somewhat of a variation from the traditional affair. The concert which features the Kingston Trio would make one or two public ap- pearances on Thursday. Morrison explained that the early perform- ances should cover the majority of the expenses, making the plan more feasi.ble. He estimated that the cost of tickets f'Or this week- end would be approximately six dollars per couple. An alternate plan, which will be used if the first is not approved, is that of a traditional fall weekend. Before the presentation of the prom bid, a motion was intro- duced by Stephen Albert \to sanc- .tion the action of four Union students participating in a dem- onstration in Troy for racial equality.\ This passive demon- stration, also sanctioned by the city of Troy consisted of students from Union, Russel Sage, RPI and Albany State. The motion was passed by the council. Later In the meeting, the students for the committee on racial equality were approved by a majority vote of the council. Peter Steinglass and William Kirchgasser were named Co-cha.irmen of this committee. Kirchgasser Censures Following this motion, William Kirchgasser moved that a letter be sent to the Editor of Con- cordy asking for, \more adequate and less Slanted coverage of the (Student Council) meetings.\ He referred primarily to an issue of ()(mcordy printed two weeks ago ·but included previous issues. In the discussion that foll(}wed, Ken Hoyt explained that the part of the meeting that was covered vas covered in full. There was an objection raised whether the Con- cordy had the right to print only part of the meeting. Kirchgasser added, \if we're going to get cov- erage, the Concordy sho.uld re- port the sentiment of the meet- ings.\ He asserted that the arti- cles do not present the general feeling of the {)Ouncil. It was suggested at this time that if the Ooncordy cannot publish this in- formation to the council's satis- faction that the Council might find a different means of report- ing its proceedings to the stu- dent body. Ken Hoyt said that, \the Coun- cil is not in a position to dictate (the actions of the paper).\ Ste- phen Albert added. that this would (Continued on Page 6) lfX)al because of nation~lly im- \Except for the five year engi- posed discrimination. However, neering and liberal arts plan\'there several of these houses may be is a substantial drop in the num- able to change their statuses .be- ber of qualified engineers who fore the September 1 deadhne. have applied. The reverse is true If they can meet the criteria, they in the pre-med and liberal arts will ibe allowed to remain In na- programs. As of April 27 the tlonal affiliation. breakdown of students accepted The report includes an explana- for specific programs of study tion of socially acceptable clauses, was as follows: Some of these clauses were found discriminato-ry and others were Program not. The committee's decision In Lib. Arts this matter was guided by the Pre-Med. With- Paid Unpaid drawn Dorm Plans Unveiled concept of local autonomy. In . other words. if the local' chapter Civ. Eng. is able to gain autonomy from the Elec. Eng. national in discriminatory 111at- ~;c!r Eng, ters a socially acceptalble clause . in the national may be tolerated. Ind. _Admm. Each fraternity was treated _as Chemistry an individual case, and socially Physics acceptable clauses were \Viewed Program 41 99 17 18 60 4 9 14 2 · !·::·;'''''''''''!'''\'''''''' . .;,.:, . .;;;<*!\'-·\'\'>:'<'' 16 45 4 7 34 -4 17 42 9 2 7 13 33 16 43 3 14 2 In the light of their prac;tical ap- · Upper Class plication in the affairs of the fra- 144 391 ternity in question,\ Committee \''A·'-olarships Decreased 45 Chairman Thomas Green stated. ~ The report plans f\)r a. yearly Due to the 'increase in the aver- · re.\'<lertificatlon of status throug~ age student budget which means annual submission of the pres1- . larger stipends and the reductio.n · dent's pledge. '!'.he letter from of the scholarship budget from the national has to be submitted $60,000 to $50,000, there will be oniy (}nee but \the committee fewer sc-holarships given next feels that 'it would be desirable year. Freshmen are expected to to have the annual re\'<lertification borrow about $40,000 which will letter submitted each year in the almost equal the amount given '·''''·· fall term, 'pt•ior to the initiation to them in scholarships. . l ., of the pledge class,\ Green added. The only significant change in According to Green, \Although the geographical distribution was some teel that the discrimination in Nassau County, New York, committee has been extremely where thirty-six studentEi, or twice liberal, we ha-v'e lbeen as conserva- as many as last year, were ac- tive as possible. We always at- · cepted. The rise is attributed to· tempted to malte the most prac- the large increase in qualified -ap- tical decision.\ plicants. Pict1lre« above is ali artist's conooption of the tentative plans £or one ()f the two dormitory urtits t.() be built next year. 'I'hese dormitory units will each house two of the presellt four off ea'll1- pus fra~rnifies. They will pr()'liide eating and living space for the Hou:ses, Union campus this weekend, April 29-May 1st, to take part in the tenth annual Parents Weekend program. Plans ---- -~-- ~ - --·-·--·~for the affair, which is being C l o . C •t sponsored once again by the ar lnO . { es Delphic Society w~r~ an- nounced today by Wtlham J. Practl .Cal;fy McLeod, chairman. II Highlighting the weekend agen- I L da, McLeod said, will be a day- n ecture long open house program op. Sat- uroay, April 30th. including visits to z·egular clal:lses during the JOSEPH F. CARLINO By Daniel Sch~artz An overflowing throng jammed Old Chapel Tuesday evening to hear Joseph Car- lino, speaker of the New York State Assembly, de- liver an address on \Practi- Politics\ in the 31st of the annual Brackett Lecture series. Discussions of the role of the political party in a democracy and the importance of strong party leadership highlighted Mr. Carlino's remarks, which were followed by extensive questions from the audience. While admitting that the Ideal is not always attained, Mr. Car- lino stated that the political party is \designed and created by law\ to give the people of that party the opportunity to express their opinion of what should be done in government.\ Among the party's responsibilities is the des- ignation and nomination of candi- dates and the ma.intenance of a functioning organization through- out the year. Restored Fiscal Integrity Emphasizing the responsibility of the majority party leadership -to \persuade party members ... to support the majority party opinion;\ he recalled· how lie, in cooperation with other ranking state Republicans, had pressed for G o v e r n o r Rockefeller's \strong unpopular program . . . which restored integrity on the fiscal side of state government.\ morning houz·s and to laboratories, dormitories and other facilities during the aiternoon. Arrange- ments have also been made for individual meetings with mem- bers of the faculty and adminis- tration. An extensive collection of calculating devices, dating from ancient times to the late 19th cen- tury, will be exhibited in Alumni Gymnasium Friday aiternoou and Saturday. Calcula.toil's Displayed Comprising the exhibit will be twenty-five devices dating back to tbe ancient abacus, as well as displays depicting the historical evolution of computers. Entitled \Ch!'onology of Calculators,\ the exhibit occupies several hundred square feet of floor space and has been shown in many parts of the nation. This exhibit will open in the Gymnasium early Friday after- noon and will r-emain on display throughout the entire day Satur- day. Also on display Saturday will be: the scientific and engi- neering laboratories (8 A.M. to 4 P.M.); Nett Memorial Libr-ary (9 A.M. to 5 P.M.); student radio station WRUC (7 :30 A.M. to 10 P.M.); and North, South, and West College dormitories (1 to 4 P.M.). Climaxing the activities will be a. joint concert by the G'lee Club and the College Concert Ensemble in Memorial Chapel at 8 P.M. on Saturday evening. The Schenectady Alumni Club will stage its annual glee club concert and dance at the Mohawk Golf Club on Friday evening. Slated to begin at 8 P.M., the program will be one of the social highlights of the season for local Union alumni and the only affair of its kind to be staged in the area this year. Entertainment will be provided by the College Glee Club under Dr. Robert Camp- bell and the Dutch Pipers, Union's vocal novelty group. Dancing to the music of Jack Yelin's band will follow the concert portion of the program. Rounding out Saturday's enter- tainment schedule will be a lun- cheon in Hale House for pro&- pect.ive students and their par- ents, a varsity tennis · <:on test against Stevens during the alter- noon, a student art exhibit in Old Chapel Gallery, an outdoor recep- tion in Jackson's Garden between 4 and 6 P.M., and a joint concert by the Glee ·dlub and Concert En- semble in Memorial Chapel at 8 P.M. T-he weekly vesper service at 7 P.M. Sunday evening, May 1st, will •bring the weekend to a close. Instituted by the Delphic Soci- ety in 1950, the Parents' Weekend programs are designed to promote better understanding and closer relationships between the College and student families. Finalists Chosen For Bowl Show Considering the issue of wheth- er party aifiliation should take precedent over the views ()f an elected officer's constituents, Mr. Carlino advocated a middle ground attitude. While firmly be- lieving that it is the responsibility of the party to lead, he recognized the candidate's responsibility to represent his constituents, adding however, that this is not possible since over a small percentage of the electors express an opinion on any one question. Ultimately, Ten final candidates for the the candidate should, according G.E .. College Bowl television pro- to Speaker Carlino, vote on the gram were selected yesterday basis of what he himself. in afternoon by a Committee head- weighing party policies and the ed by Professor Joseph Finkel- views of his constituents, consid- stein. ers the most admissible decision. The students chosen from the Strong party initiative, asserted original 46 aspirants are: Dont>Jd the Long Beach Republican, is Banzhaf '63, Jason Birnholz '63, justified and necessary. If enough Dav~d Brungart '61, Walter Casey individuals within the party ex- '60, Browne Littell '60, M. John press dissatisfaction with the Lubetkin '60, James Reisman '60, party leadership, new policies Gene Schleh '61, Gary Stein '60. will be formulated. Furthermore, According to Dr. Finkelstein and the voters ~so promise a \check\. Professor Alan Nelson, who will By casting ballots they can influ- coach the team, the candidates ence party policy. Among the . were selected on the basis of requisites for politicat office, Mr. their qtiickness of reaction, mu- Carlino intimated, are willingness sical aptitude a.nd self confidence, to make sacrifices, ability to ac- , There was no attempt to select cept considerable responsibilities,: the \typi.cal Union student\ as knowleqge of the duties involved, the candidates were selected on and awareness of current events. the b.asis of their lilWn ability.

I l=riday, April 291 1960 By Alice N.or:num With All Deliberate Speed .Sports Edit(Jrial Alic.e N ornmn. is a. Skidmro.-e '' ·college student who has recently at th~a l;leginning of the article. I'eturned from a Skidmore spon- A 15 man steering oommittee By Leslie Mlll'rt!S s·ored trip. to. Spelman College, a, Was appointed by students in the 'Th·e word I\s out ·th.at Union swi_rnming mentor Ed !'iegro instituti.on h1 Atlanta: Geor- university system to formulate S~ve Our Resources gia. One of sev?x:al Skidmore, plans to carry out this pledge. F€dosky may be in Hne for the head, swimming coae.Q students woo .participated hi_ an The appeal was ·unanimously ap- sld at Kansas State University, in Manhattan, Kansas. exc.ha.nl>e program With Spelman, proved by the student bodies ·be- :Ksu In vi ted him foi\ an inter-~~---~~----,-'--~----,..~~ Miss N~rman. repo;rts. below · fore it wa.s printed. The students, : vi-ew recently at,td reportedly lists. the . pos1tion o~ ·P 10 mtegrati()n wishing to keep it a purely stu- him among the \top three\ for A mood portrait by Dan Grt>uni.ng, at the An:imal Union College Art Show. student groups. Ill the South. dent movement, are not a group •the position. It is an op,portunity ~ -- 'associated with the NAACP, a!- tha:t Fedot)ky, if given the job,. '\We must say in. all candor thougll many are ~ndividual mem- 1 pE·obabll' would not be al;'>le we plan to use every legal ·and ·bers. refuse, While KSIJ is: on}y in non-violent means at our disposal . The coordinated \requests~· ·its fourth year of swimming. to secure full citizenship rights the result of the committee's since World ·War II, all indica- as members. of this great democ- ful planning. Each student .uons point to gl\eater :emphasis racy of ours.\ participated was fully aware In the :;;port t!:rere. W·ith these words the Negro the !ega·! consequences· and did so JJur!ng his tenu-re a,s .the Mer- students in the Atlanta University under his or her own respohsihil~ moen's coach at Union Fedosky · system indicated their unwilling- i'ty. At •11 AM., 200 students pe»sted 54 and 5-5 records in 1958- n~s::; to pa:;sively_ a~cep_t con~ilions tempted to be•served in 59 .and 1959-60, respectively. In · of racial dlscrrmlllatJOn Ill the in the State Capital, the city hal\ atlditron to his fine showing, in South. They one~ and for aH re-, A bus tPrmlnnl, two railroad sta· tn.e record books ?edosky, through pc:.~:te~ the cum~non belle£ held by tions·. -the Fulton cOunty Coui:·t ·l)is inspired, good-natured :\h·. S1bley, 'Cha11·man of the Com- House and a federal building. e!\Shi.p has ptovcd .hiinsEilf one . mittee to re:mlve the fate of Gear- e were successful ' thoe bes.t teacher~; of young men gia\~ .public school::; to \join · th:at. this college has .seen in re- hcurt::;, mintlti and bodie::; in gain- Arrested Vnder New Law cent years. . ing those rights . . . inherently Police arrested 76 students un- Eefore coming to Union,. Fed- theirs as members of the •hu!l\an der a newly passed state · osky .was assistant · race and citizens of the United which made it an offense not to. coach at the University -of Union's third ann1:1al student art exhibit will b€ offi~ States.\ leave an estaJblishment when told ana in 19157-58 and head coach at . . 111 . S d ft They finally and irrevocably re- to do .so by the owner or mana- W':yandotte, Michigan High .froll1 cmlly opened to the public at 4 P . .ll • t~!S un ay a 'er- futed the &outhern White position ger. Governor Vandiver person- 1953-54 to 1956-57. future. Cartmill, like Fedoslty, noon, May 1st, in Old Chapel Gallery, It was announced that the Negro wants segregation; ally encouraged the arrest of :S-winnning Star Extr~ll'dJnaire , maintained a close rapport With -------<tJ•today by Wayne K. Nowack, as inuch as th.e whit~ in or~er den.ts in the state capital. £,,. l952 graduate of Indiana, his players and thus was able to ED FEDOSKY L tt Assistant Professor of Art., to P_reserve racJal punty apd m- wa.s not surprising after :Fe-do..slty swam the 4:40 yard and produce winning teams.; teajlls e. erS . • • Th h · \II t'n tegr1ty. sertion that the appeal had the t5oo meter even41 two years· which stressed good sportsman- e S OWing WI con 1 ue ·Want Desegregation Now communist inspired . .All were :at his altha mater. In 1948, while ship. (Continued from Page 3) rose as a necessary organization for self defense, through comn1encernent on These students want desegrega- on bail that afternoon. ser-ving ih the United. states Mar- Let us save our coaching talent May 29th. tion and they want it now, They The students only requested• jpe Cocys, he was a. mern:ber -it is s: vital resource of the col- Cowprising this year's exhibit,. are tired of listening to both service in .public buildings. . the West ·Coast Swimming Team The days of the \reconstruc- tion\ are over and we see what the perverted KKK has come to, but what now? At the risk Qf starting the War between the States over again, may I suggest that the North is still trying to \reconstruct\ the South. Ever since the necessary Supreme Court decision Northern groups ·have officially appointed themselves as administrators of equality, and the people as a whole have more casually followed. The arm-chair dictation from the Northeast, however, is having a disasterous effect. In the name of racial equality, racial equality is being thwarted. It is my personal con· tention, based on considerable contact with both North and South, that we object more to the pi\inciple of being \reconstructed\ than we do to integration. And further, the northern \liberals\ screaming from their restl\icted neighborhoods are making it in- creasingly difficult to be liberal. Although racial prejudice is not to be doubted in the South, these feelings hardly form a \religion\ No,v-ack said, will he forty .works' whites and Negroes who advocate new iaw does not specify at the All-Navy Championships~ ·by some thirty students who are a slo.w evolutionary process of ·it applies to public or :Fe<Iosky -received his Master currently enrolled in the Paint- change. \The Civil War ended buildings. Attorney flcience degree at Ind.iana in 1958. · inl! and Drawing course. Styles almost one hundred years ago, counsel for the students It is ::Jincerely 'h.oped that the will range from naturalism to ab- that's more tha:J?- enough time,\ pact of his defense on this -college administration 'Will take straction. with the latter ve1•y stated Lonny Kmg, one of the: tion of public and private ·-wh.atever steps it can to prevent much in the lead. The works are student leaders. They realized Ushments. F.re believes 'the loss of as fine a coa.cll as Ed executed in a wide variety of that the Supreme Cou:t :r;ne:ely public is Invited to use :;E'edosky, if he is offered the head media, including .pencil, pen and c.alled. f~r an end to d1scr1mma.- distinctions ::Jhould not be made swimming , coach's position at ink wash water color oil enamel tJon,. 1t IS now up to the Negro about the type of public, Negro :ES'l!J'. and col~red powd~I\s mixed to kill segregation in. the sta~e o-r white. i:t would be a serious blow to media, photography, collage, and and_ local courts. This is their It is difficult for students in spOI't.s at Union if the college were· metal sculpture, maJor goal. . the North te> understand what it t:o. lose Fedosky at this time. The The \requests for serv1ce\ (a· is like for a Negro to go shop- departure of Tom <J;u:trnill to St. Dadaist Worl1 Featured· \Most of th~ worl1s,\ Nowack <aid. \show strongly independent and expressively porsonal tend- encies. with considPrable zeal and sor:1e real creative abilitr. Above all, they demonstrate e.nthusiasm for explomtion and experimenta- tion.'' A special preliminary viewing of the new exhibit was held on Thursday morning. April 28th, for a group of New Y Ol'k State secondary school art teachers who were attending their annual state conl'ention in Schenectady. tune prefer!\ed to sit ins) of March· ping in downtown Atlanta and- La. VI-renee last year was a 15, were organized with this in a.lmost virtually have n9 place I.oss and one that shouldn't , mind. These were no spontane- (Continued on Page 6) peated nl}W or at any time ous protests, but carefully organ-. --------------~~-------------~,j ized and planned test cases. .• On March !l, \an appeal for human rights\ appeared as an · advertisement in .two white and one Negro daily newspaper. This· appeal was written and paid for by students. lt stated areas of inequality in ·the state and city and closed with the pledge qu()ted DIAM'A NlE Restaurant cut~ Bar Visit Our New ~l>it1in~ Room which can only be changed by chauvinistic idealism that would northern \mi.ssionaries.\ Es cos- have us amputate the body to tumbre, probably expresses the save the head. ~NM·,_.. Whe11 In New Y01'k Visit(!t:fripp 14 E. 44th St. • New York 17,. N.Y. A Place to G.CJ'fo Relax Opp. The Brownell Gaia on Not+ St. Open Daily Hlto 3 A~tyi. Sundays 5 to J AM, MUrray Hill 7-0850 For All 'Your Paint and Hardware Needs See Us CAPITOL PAINT &: . On PROM Weekend Zaney - You'll make the scene with· a gift from Mau- rice B. Graubart & Sons, Jewelers, 166 Jay Street. Like they've been swingin' for 3 generations, Dave sentiment more effectively. The Under the names of LIBERTY, South is aware of its inequality EQUALITY, FRATERNITY, for- as much as any, and under the ty thousand Frenchmen literally slow progress equality was being lost their heads; under the name reached un the uppe!\ strata of RACIAL E-QUALITY gaite a few business and professional fields. are following suit more figura- as well as in many other slow tively. The pr-evi'Ously mentioned ways. And when the South had professor, remarked at the con- Its nose rubbed in the problem elusion of oui\ chat,, \I want equal- and told to clean it up, many ity so that I may disli'ke whom areas preceded to accelerate pro- I please without being called grams and adopt new ones, with prejudiced.\ Let us be careful a few well noted exceptions. As that the privilege of selection is the pendulum swings, however, it. not . sacz:ificed for a currently i.s leaving many liberals far be· utopmn Jdeai ~d ado~t .a sane hind. The- most ardent equality and. mnturp P?hry in bUJldJ.ng our fighters are forcing the issue and I eqmtable soc1ety. The tl'llle of forcing into the conservative I the carpet bagger legis!atu;e an<:l 1 camp m_any whose maturity and I !he KKK are long gone, lets keep I HARDWARE CO. 730 STATE 'ST. R\lSE YOUR FLAGONS AND SING PRAISES OF GENESEE judgment would do more to pro-, 1t that way. . , mote racial equality than the La.wton Mi~rlison 68 ... .... 7 • a ID4r i\ut4.eutir iiJuttnubnwu Now • •• in short sleeves Two ideas to keep watm weather in the fashion front: a soft batist~ with University styling .•. and luxurious hopsack oxford, in pullover model. The button- down collar with the perfect arched flare looks sman with or without a tie. Both $5.00. -.-ARROW~ Wherever you 90 .•• you look better in an Arrow ~hirl • 1 I Pho11e FR 4-4123 pr • ... BRIGHT AND GOLDEN AS A BEER CAN BE. J ENNY,S BREWED WITH ~ATURALLY PURE HEMLOCK LAKE WATER AND THAT MAKES THE Dl FFERENCE. L1 FT A SPARKLING GENES.EE TONIGHT! The Genesee Brewing Co., ·Inc., Rochester, N~ Y. Friday,-~ M . . ·I \Per seconds pJ!.rti\tl ( ilton sor LacJ .An~ Uni< th.rough Wednesc scored 1 victory ably the of the ye Facing way, the first in t play. AI Battling Mlddlebur until atta• eel one tl Here too· Enterin, game ass with firs· and then .August w ter goal. . Pitc Sweepit: the play b battle bet .Again th the visito Ia.st secot: men clim struggle 11nd final The G: spite of : through 1 the last 1 sticltworll goalie Jo ed with J The big face, as I )lim, mar It was th of teamw sh'Own b;~i son. UNION MIDDLE In a pe ion stick! ing Ham Opening Lazar, tl !\ high!~ squad. J; Lazar . .Startin: ter, the v up penal1 Until th1 the Big\; by this I Garnet third per ond goal Hamil tor. the seas< Gi\ii A bjttE -quarter, i·ts score gust wa! third go credited In the tacltman fered an m·an wa:: a ruptUl ports ha ;Durin~ a fight member! field wa both si~ the gam parent : had rea ting up fouls.

8:45 I .1 I I Men I T.V. Road . ~ = ......... : I • i' i i .. I I ! : ! : ,. : • ,! ! friday, April 29. l960 --~---=~----------------~~----~~---------.----------~------------3 Lett·ers to The Editor ADVERTISEl\IENT - PETE To the E<;litor of Concordiensis:<p•~~---~--~----------------~---------~------- 1 have been following with in- terest the political series which trotting over t'O a less vo~al group phenomenon -referred to .Is the ha;s been presented in the Con-: and maintaJni!lg that he voted for perpetration of political inespon\ co1•diensis <;luring the present: the bill because it was •basically sibility by extreme left and r-ight- semester. Examination o.f ·the. a good one? wing groups on behalf .of many political· 'backgrountls, phil-oso\: Nixon Has Good Side ·of our outstanding political fig- phies; and policies of the many (4) My! Isn't MI.\. MacDonald ures. Had Mr. MacDonald sought presidential candidates (}f both: the eleemosynary sort! :He man- to present ·his preference for the P?-rtie~ is alwa;vs a~?- stimulating ages at last to admit that Ri<:hard Presidency he might have done so diversiOn, es~emally man election: Nixon ''does )lave his personal by offering a logical and studied year. T~e ed1tors are t.o be lauded.' side.\ But the hoi-rendotLS ex- sta.tement of the .pros and -cons of for the1r ef~ort~ to mfo:m the ample he selected to Pl'ove it is the many p(}!icy issues wblch all ?ollege comml;lmty on tlus v:ery preposterous. Has Mr. MacDonald .contenders must face. -Or he nnportan~ subJect. . . . ever browsed in the Cong\l'essional might have indicated his unfavor- There 1s! h'Owever, certam eV·l- Record and discovered f.rom what able assessment of Mr. N-ixon's d~nce Which J?~es us s!lspect stl'al1ge and mysterious sources IJ:ualltles ln a letter to the letter either the poh~1cal ~~tur1ty of, candidates obtain the funds to to the ·editor similar to m.y own. the ,Co~c;~ordtensis .pol!hcal repor- con_duct their camjiaig1}s? Un- '[n any event, <:haracter assina- ter~Mr. Donald MacDonald~or eth 1 cal to accept contributions lion is· justifil).ble under no cir- the editori_a,l restraint of the from wealthy friends?-I shall cumstances if we are t(} p1·eserve newspape:; .1tself. To come closer ieave the answer to Messrs. Far~ 'the right .of free speech and en- to t~e pomt: mos~ of t~e Demo-: ley, Wagner, Kennedy, and Harri• courage the frank> e:x:pression of crahc hopefuls-mcludmg ·the man. one's viewpoint on any issue abominable Orval \Faubus-have (5) The most inconceivable of which may be topical. received rather :t:avoJ•able treat•-\ all, however, is Mr. MacDonald's Kenneth. S. H.!lyt '59 ment, whic4 immediately betrays' assertion that the Republican- a _liberal orientation on the part: demise of 1954 and debacle of of MT. MacDonald. This has ap- 1958 are directly attributable to· To the Editor of Concordlensis: :pa,rently found a warmhearted re-' Mr. Nixon's participation in the Recent study and faculty in- ception in the admittedly liberal congressional campaigns. terest i_n a I?lan to convert N?tt confines of the ConC'ordiensis. (a) Naturally tlie :Republicans. Memo.I'lal Library ·l.nto .a Fme Irresponsibility Cited fared best in the districts\ Mr. ~rt~ Center has P?m·;ed up the Nixon did not visit-these were :madequa:c.Y. of Umons prog!\am Standing by itself, no one could \safe\ districts just as much, as. and fac11ltles to match student object to this Uberal advocacy' Albany is a safe district: f(}r any demand. . . . even though one might elect to• Democratic candidate including , At present, no maJor 1n Fme disagree with certain of its ten- the donkey itself. ' .Arts is included in the College ants. But when the liberal phil- (b) E!ectorally, the Republican ,catalogue: though three cypes of osophy is irrespopsibly used as, Party is the mln·ority party in the Engmeermg ar.e so ):lono~ed. . A a fortress from which to wage the' more heavily .populated• a!,eas of ,c~eck on the cou~e offeungs u~­ type of campaign characteristic the nation. d1_cates t1J.at a maJOr program 1s of the late Senator McCarthy- (c) The Repucblican Party rec- · now f_eas_ible_ in Art ·and in Music, who, incidentally, received quite ognizes that the major causes of .and mdlCabons. of recelL.t c~ass uncomplimentary mention in a-re- its disastrous record at the polls .enrol~ments .pomt to a solidly cent ·Concordiensis editorial-and in 1958 were: growm&' demand. The depart- from which to launch •barbarotLS (i.J generally unattractive can- .ments themselves have f-or sev- anti-Nixon charges which are se- didates eral years looked forward. to the vere distortions or slantings of ( ii) the recession establishment of majors in theil· the truth., the campus citizen is (iii) the tr-aditional \mid-term. fields, and have introduced courses entitled and obliged to register slump\ eX}lerienced by any to that ~nd. . a vehement protest. party occupying tbe White Accordmg to the faculty mvolv- (1) Only the ultra-liberal left- House ,ed, they have heen forced. to ·put wing press is so callous that it ( iv) ill-advised stress on the ,off a definite req~est _for depart- would resort to using \A Look at right-to-work laws coupled me~tal ~a:t~ pnn:ar;ly •because 'Tricky Dick'\ as a flyer for an with stepped-up labor union ~he1r famllbes (pau~tmg class?s article. Also, the nickname \dirty activity m a ·basement; musw dasses m Dick\ .is one which no reputable . · . Mem'Orial Chapel offices, art lee- writer, respected publisher, or NIXon. Ballot a :Oisservice tures in that Grand ·Central Sta- reasonable politician would apply ( 6 ) In hls concludmg paragraph tion, Old Chapel). Ho-wever, if to Richard M. Nixon. Mr. Mac~onald se~ks to l~ave the student demand for courses con- (2) Concerning blatant demogo- reader With the rmpress~on that tinue to grow at their present guery: one does well to reflect for the v?ter who. mar!ts b~s 'ballot .rate-and this seems inevitable- a moment on the sentim-ent which f~r RIChard ~!Xon 15 domg both the faculty is- J.\easona sure the existed in California in the late h~mself and hiS country- a gr~a:t College will provide tor this crea- 1940's and early 1950's. No one· disservice. ~~e cJ:arges of polltl- tive growth. The Proposed Fine has ever denied that there was a cal pra~ahmsm m the extreme At'ts Center would constitute a substantial amount of Communist an~ . the mference 0 ~ a. .lack of 'large first step toward placing activity in. California and several politiCal ethics and ldeah~xn a.re Union's Arts pl\''gram on a .basis other states during that period. c~lculated to .convey an. Jmpres- .of equality with othe-r programs; The majority of the electorate sJon as re:voltmg as tha.t left by departmental status and the in- soon came to feel that something the \ 20 years of t;eason., charges · stitution of majors in tbe Fine should be done to halt to the pene- one~ levelled agamst the Demo- Arts would complete the .. balanc- tration of the Communist con• cM.tJc party as a whole. in~' of the BALANCED <JOL- Aft¢r noti<:ing that Mr. Mac- LEGE spiracy before any serious dam- Donald is in the peculiar position · . age was wrought. If Mr. Nixon of lauding the misguided efforts Name Wtthheld By J.l.equest capitalized on the political situa- of the Cardinal Mindzenty Study. -~ tion by noting that his opponent's Group in one week and '()ondemn-- To the Editor of Concordiensis: voting record did. not coincide mg the anti-Communist state- There seems to be a fever of with what he believed to ·be de- ments attributed to Mr. Ni:xon in excitement in the air ove:r Union sira:ble, it is a little bit more than the next, the readel\ ·cannot avoid. lately, infecting the student body difficult to discover how that can f d .asking himself \How im:mature a. with -a new sense o purp-ose an ·be interpreted as a Red Smear. ·reporter and thinker can this Mr. responsi!bility. A restlessness, Obviously his viewpoint did not MacDonald be?\ or is it simply and inability to accept tbings as and has not met witb disfavor that this freshman is somewhat they are, are reflected .in the among the California electorate, overwhelmed by the unusual op- passage of the new rushing pro- or the nation for that matter: for portunity extended to him by the posal, in the Concordiensis arti- if it had failed to find acceptance, campus newspaper? One also -cles that come to grips with the our beloved liberals would hardly wonders how long these naive and national and international issues -be faced with the possibility that distorted half-truths will continue of our time, ana ilL the stringy he might move up to occupy the to appear under the guise of lib- satire that is displ~yed in front White House. era! journalism. of Union's citadel of libe.l'al edu- 2\.ccused oil' Fence Sitting Essentially, though, the problem cation. It is reflected i:n the Stu- (S) If Richard Nixon stands a-c- is nothing more than tbis: in in- dent C(}uncil's new national out- cused of fence-sitting a:nd claim- veighing against !1. phene>menon· look, as evidenced by its res(}lu- . unfortunately establishe-d oli the tion on the most crucia.l moral Jumping on certain issues, let Mr. d. MacDonald be reminded of the American stage, Mr. MacD(}nald issue facing .Anlerlca to ay. is forced to fall back on the same Unfortunately, this fel\'Vent air necessity in a liberal society 'Of t 'I of tactics he finds so distasteful. The has not reached the nos r1 s allowing any individual to see the error,s of his ways and to make the appropriate adjustments if the evidence warrants. T.hen too, what about John Kennedy who- being far from tricky-is capable of saying to an AFL-CI·O meeting that the Landrun-G'riffith :JJill was a terrible labor bill, and then UNION PHARMACY '\Drugs and Fountain Service\ FREEl DELIVIDRY R. Ala.:n Ble,ser 600 Union St. FR 4-3605 L. G~~ BALFOUR CO~~ C~RL SO'REN'SEN BAl)GES- RiNGS- FAVORS JEW'ELRy LEA'l1HEBi GJ::Ii'l'S STATIONERY \ PROO'a.AHS CLUB PINS -KEYS MED.t\LS - TRO.:PBIES Write or Call Fraternity Jewelers 171 Marshall St.,~ N,Y, Phone Granite 5-7837 ~---~----···----~---&·--·~-----·~··----------·~ « • i SON:s o·F UNIO·N Make Your Pctrents Weekend Memo,.able Take Them to the RATHSKELLAR OPEN SATURDAY-11.30- 5:00 8:30-12:00 the college administrators. Full of conservatism. wallowing in sr· E_l- N GLASS Union's illustrious traditions and . · . · .· . . . .· _ past glories, they are now relying on a half-hour television quiz show for \one of our best plllblic: · relations events in several years.\. LO 0 KS AT Gentlemen, much bette!\ relations: , · ... · . · · · .' . possibilities are available every. day. Announce to the world Un- ion's opinions on the ·questions the· colleges are loolted to for answers. · Let the nation know Union's posi- tion in the controversy over the · National Defense Education .Act. Condemn it, and join the colleges that refuse to accept the .funds · it provides, or defend it to the hilt; but say something. Dart- . mouth has th!\eatened to suspend fuur fraternities whose charters stm have discriminatory clauses.. ~f any issue of LIFE mag~ Two of those f-raternities have· azme were to be tailored chapters at Union. Why hasn't esp c' II f th A . the Mothet' of Fraternities clean· .e la Y or - e mencan ed her house? Why doesn't the college student, it COUld Administration show how it feels ·hardly fail to look very much about t'acial equality, as the Stu- like the May 2 edition. Al- 1ient Council has done, perhaps • th h LIFE ld h by announcing that Union will ac- · oug • WOU ave to cept qualified students who are make some mighty serious expelled from college because of alterations before it could their stand on integration? hope to compete with sev- The Administration does take a eral other \pictorial\ publi- stand on some things. It will not tolerate parking violations, hut it cations devoted to depicting makes a nice profit when viola- in fiction and photography tions do occur. It is dictate>rial those subjects near and dear in regard to student housing, r~rc- to the heart and other or- ing students whose intellectual pUt\suits require them to live off gans of .collegians, neverthE- campus to devise metho-ds of get- less this issue definitely ea- ting around the college regula- ters to the student sect. tions. S It is about time that those re- tudents, Strippers sponsible for college policies take Devoting m a j o r n e w s a whi-ff of the atmosphere that space to the recent Korean seems to ·be affecting the students. political problems fl'Om the ,;,~.,r~~·;,., It is obvious, to someone who con- stantly has to explain that Union by student-incited riots, LJFE has also begun the is a small balanced men's c(}llege in a Series of Articles\ o.n one of American education's in Schenectady, New York, that most serious problems, the dropout student, and finally our school does not have the re- spect and reputation that we provided an excellent balance by giving us the fascinating know it deserves. and most ipformative story of one of the great myths in Allan Bensky, '6()-'61 the long and noble career of American Burlesque under maestros Minsky (there were three brothers), entitled, ''The Sudden Raid that Ruined Burlesque.\ To the Editor of Conoordiensis: I ·had the good. fortune recently of chatting with a Negro college professor from Greensboro, N. C. In our discussion of the recent sit down strikes in the South, he re- marked \There are quite a few Negroes whom I wouldn't sit next to, as well as quite a few whites.\ Unfortunately, this privilege of selection is quite easily demolish· ed with one word-prejudice. Ef- forts to abolish prejudice and es- tablish equality resulted once in the estrublishment of alien legis- latures for sovereign states. This was, of course, in the Reconstruc- tion Period, when illiterate Ne- groes and mercenary carpet-bag- gers legally exercised Nortllern dictates to the hapless South. It was at this time that the KKK (Continued on Page 4) The Drop()ut Problem Let us begin with the latter. It seems, as legend would have it, that once upon a time, in the land of the National Winter Garden Theater on New York's Houston Street, there dwelt and performed a lovely damsel of rare and apparently provocative talents, by the name of Made- moiselle Fifi. Compared to the modern chorines who bare their chests in the cause of money, Mademoiselle Fifi was an artist. While our contemporaries merely sb'ut around a platform displaying, Mademoiselle was an interpretive dancer with a decided fondness for classical subjects. But one day Fifi forgot the script and bumped her way through an impromptu dance that \broke up Minsky's and degraded a tradition.\ Nothing's like it was in the good old days. On the important side of life, LIFE has begun a ser- •••••••••••••••••••••••••1 · t 'bl . t t b f A . d 1 tes on a err1 y 1mpor an· pro 1em o men can e uca- Junior Year • 1n New York An unusual one-year co/lege program Write f<Jr brochure to: • Prof. J. W. Egerer Washington Square Collage New York University New York 3, ·'N.Y. • 1 tion, basically how to get the most service out of our edu- 1 cational system. LIFE has chosen to approach the topic I from the negative aspect, that of the student who drops 1 out of school before he has completed his course and thus 1 before he has taken full advantage of the educational I 1 opportunity afforded him by his community. i 1 Although LIFE is attacking the problem on a high : school level, it is certainly no less important a dilemma on : the college campus. American higher education appears 1 to be getting scarcer on a per capita basis as the years : pass, and it may soon prove imperative that educators in- 1 sure the greatest efficiency in those colleges that are available. The situation rnay soon prove ~so serious that colleges will find it disastl'Ous to invest .their money and energies in students who .are unable or unwilling to com- plete their programs and thus offer little return on the time spent educating them. Next weel1: LIFE promises to continue this series with \A Program that Rescues ])ropouts.\ We look fo1·ward to this article and possibly future ones devoted to an exten- sion of the problem to the college atmosphere. ' I II

4 o\J~DWl/-{~ ~I'()' flr rL \)... • ~nutnr 6 k .ut:tusts 0 '~{£.,~~· Published 1-'~idays during the Editorial Of.flce, Washburn Hall, school year by the 8tuden t Boqy Union College, Publication Of- of Union ·College, Schenectady, fice, The Gazette Press, 834 N. Y. Natlona;l Advertising Rep- 'state St. · Enterecl in the Sche- i'esentaUve: National Advertis- nectady Post Office as Second mg Service, Inc., Coll'ege Pub- Class Mail Matter, subscription lisllers Representative, 420 Mad- !Oc a copy; $2 a year delivered ison Ave., N. Y. C:. anywhere in the United States. Beat Platitudes: Skonked ln recent issues of Concordiensis there has been much emphasis on international upheavals of a social and politi- cal nature. The areas of unrest have included the Union of South Africa, the United States, and more recently, the Republic of Korea and Turkey. It is noteworthy that in all four cases .gtudents stand out as the prime force which motivated action. It now seems trite to call our international generation \Angry young· men\ ;yet this is perhaps the most appm- priate term. Certainly students have shown themselves to be in opposition to many practices which they consider base. The outstanding precedent which has been set, how- ever, is that they have acted in accordance with their ideals. They have not been \Beat\, in any sense of that term. What can we gain by translating these situations to our environment? First, a certain degree of pride in our international brotherhood. Second, an inspiration to carry ourselves in a manner which ag1·ees with ideals which we have set for ourselves. We have no outstanding revolutions to fight on this campus. We do have an obligat~on ~o maiJ?.tain ~onour in exam rooms. We do have an obltgatwn to mcommg fresh- men. We do have an obligation to the Negro population of both the ~orth and the South. The student body of Union College can be satisfied with the constructive steps it has taken in the last two months. We must not, however, permit satisfaction to be- come a synonym for complacency. The Editors of the CONCORDIENSIS welcome Let- tel's to the Editor of general interest from their reader- ship. All letters must be signed by their author, but names will be withheld upon request. Letters should be typewritten. ',-Civil Liberties Dept. Perverted Americanism :By Donald D. .MacDonald An attempt is being made to abolish the controversial House Cn-Amencan Acuvities Commit- tee. This laudable endeavor: is l.Jeing pur:;ued by the Amer:ican Civil Liberties Union, Hepresenta- tiv<,: James Huosevelt and other Americans interested in protect- ! ng our ci vii liberties and consti- tutional freedoms from the relent- less and vicious attacks of the Anti-Democt·atlc and crank ele- ments entrenched in positions of power and responsibility through- out the nation. The H.U.A.C., according to Rep- resentative Roosevelt, has served the purpose for which it was formed, and has become a serious threat to civil liberties. The re- cent resignation of Richard Arens, Staff .Director of the H.U.A.C., as a re::mlt of the fam- ous \Gene Research\ scandal is an example of the perverted Am- ericanism bemg promoted by these elements of our society. We consider the attempt being made by the A.C.L.U. to eradicate one of the remaining vestiges of McCarthyism to 'be of utmost sig\ nificance. As evidence of the cor- ruption by the anti-Democrats we submit the following article re- printed from the Gazette and Uadly, York, Pennsylvania. Negroes Heltl \Inferior\ Richard Arens, staff director of. the House Committee on On- American Activities, serves as a privately paid consultant on re- search grants given by a wealthy :>Jew Yorlwr held to ·be trying to prove Negroes genetically inferior. A1·ens has conceded to this re- porter that he assist.o; multi-mil- uonalre Wycliffe Draper of Man- hattan In allocating grants to re- searchers and writes in the fields of genetics and immigration. Such gifts have been made in the last few years on the advice of him- self and others, he said. Aecording to scientists who have had contact with him, Dra- per wants American Negroes to be resettled in emerging African republics because as a race they are undesirable in this country. Arens hll.'l refused to say, how- ev0r, whether he has been .in- volved specifically in studies on race. Un-American Activities Commit- tee chairman Francis E. Walter !D-Pa.) was informed of Arens relationship with Draper more than a week ago, and said the news caused him concern. He indicated that he was aware of some kind of Arens-Draper rela·· tionship, but had not understood lt. . \Vhile the chairman appeared disturbed, he did not press his v1si tor for details or for the sources of information. Before he could ·be told of the grants, he said he had developed a plan him- self for Draper to finance-a plan involving the improvement of African universities to promote stability in native government. Since the interviews, Walter has made no public move concerning Arens' association. Instead, the chairman has continued to work closely with his aides as they jointly defend an Air Foree man- ual charging some Protestant clergyman with Communist Jean- ings. Refuses Explanation In an interview several weeks ago, Arens admitted that he setves as a Draper consultant channeling funds for research in- to certain aspects of \genetics and immigration.\ But he would not explain the aspects. The staff director said he sees nothing W1'ong with his activity, but refused to describe the re- search projects or list of recipi- ents. His role is only to \recom- mend\ projects, subjects to latter approval by a committee, he said. But he would not name the per- sons who compromise the commit- tee. Draper himself would not even discuss hiS grants when reached by telephone. He curtly advised the caller to seek information from Harry Wehyer, a New York lawyer, and gave Wehyer's num- her. Wehyer indicated in a telephone conversation that two, not one, committees make awards of Draper funds and that Arens serves as a paid consultant only to one. Arens gets only a small payment for his, duties, Wehye1· Raid. His disclosure of two commit- tees seemed to be inadvertent. Asked if Sen. James Eastland <D-Miss.l was on the committee Arens served, Wehyer replied that he was connected With \the other one.\ Scientist;;. Ada.nmnt A number of leading geneticists have heard of Draper, and some have been approached by him for acceptance of funds for special rese~rch. After learning his in- interest, most have refused the m·oney. Arens has been investigating Friday, April 29, .l960 • Student Action Korean Freedom Reborn, Class of '61 presents- S:pring Weekend By Mil.lb~el Gordon The effect of imperialism in the early part ·Of this century and the later segment of last cen- tury is now undergoing a con- certed, multi~lateral .efflort for re- versal. Consequently, people who have long been accustomed to subjugation are now tasting -the initial fruits of democracy. It is necessary for these novices to lear.n to use this new found power. These people, who may be regarded as relatively naive are left exposed to the caprices of dictators and others wh-o seek to misguide a free nation for selfish gains. Thus, unscrupulous individuals have succeeded in de- ceiving many of the infant na- tions of the world, as documented by Sultarno 11:1 Indonesia and Tru- jillo in the Dominican Republic. One ·Country, however,, was thought to have undergone this metamorphasis with suecess. The Republic of Korea has been led by the government ·of Dr. Syng- man Rhee's Liberal Party since the Korean war of 10 years ago. Yet the infant democracy I!OW appears to have been only a veil- ed se:mi-dictatorship. Opposition Seethed Bitter opposition to the govern- ment headed by Rhee had been seething under the surface ever since the Mareh 15 presidential electi<Jn. It was in this election that Rhee's opposition, the Demo- cratic Party, was swept from the poles by a four to one majority. To understand the dissatisfaction created by the election results, It is necessary to examine the elec- tion itself more closely. Syngman Rhee had been running unop- posed for reelection to the office of President. The candidate for the opposition, Lio Chough Pyong had died a month previously Ul,l- der mysterious circumstances while on a trip to Washington. Rhee's running mate, Lee King Poong, .swept the election by a four to one vote ft:om the present Democratic Vice President, Dr. John M. Chang. Though he is confined to a wheel ehair and cannot speak coherently, Poong, who did no campaigning, swept the election, even in the cities, where the Democrats were re- puted to have their political strongholds. Injustices Revealed fore the round of bullets fi-red in their midst. For a time, all was silent. Friday Evening - STAN RUBlN: Last week, the body of a seven- teen year old student, missing since the riots, was found floating ln the Bay of Ma,san. Bitterness again burst forth, and for two days, the streets of the city were controlled by mobs, until p<;>lice guns again restored order. In Seoul; on Aprit 19, seve1·a1 hun- dred students marched in sym- pathy with the students of Masan. 'l'hese students were dispursed not by pdlice, but by band:;~ of hoodlums, bearing lead pipes, whom ,police made no effort to stop. ~' i and His ligertown Five ! Saturday Night-· ~ The HI-Lo·s Students Ma.rch Combination Ticket $7 .2·5 You may purchase a.t the your ticket Student Activities Office ~ Fraternity Representative ''.Phe neJtt day, 4,000 students marched from the es..m.pus of' Seoul's National University in protest of the previous day's oc- curences. By mid morning, thou- ~ sands of high school pupils had · joined the march. Police ·could not contain the rioters and fin- ally, in desperation, they fired upon the students as they ap- pr0ached Kyt!ngmudai, Rhee's Presidential Mansion. The stu• dents scattered and rioting con- tinued into the 11lght as tanks rolled into the beleaguered city. Seoul was clamped under martial law, rights suspended, and a cur- few imposed. An estimated 300 students wet'e killed In the course or from your I ~~~~~~~,.\~ of this day, Rioting continued in the days to follow and protests against the blood-ridden repression pour- ed in from foreign governments. Most vehement in its protests was the United States, long re- garded as a friend of the Rl:;lee government. A confidential note from President Eisenhower hint- ed that resignation at this point would be best. Rhee \Rheesigns\ On April 27, the Korean Na- tions Assembly adopted a reso- lution calling for the resignation of Rhee, who consented to resign, \if the people of the nation de- sire it.\ The Assembly also ln- clud.ed a resolution calling for a)· inva'ildation of the March 15 election and the reelection of both officers; b) Formation of a transition cabinet pending the establishment of Cabin!l,t respon- sibility; c) The dissolving of the present National Assembly and the election of a new one after the constitutional process of the altering of the government. The entire Central Elections Commit- tee headed by a staunch Liberal Party supporter, Kin Doo I1 was forced to resign. The students who had so vehe- mently protested the election now pleaded with the people to \re- store order\. ... ART THEATRE NOW thru WED. A• warm ... sensuous tale Nightly at 7 and 8:45 of bewitchment ... betrayal and a strange French pre-marital custom La BOUNTY•s LAUNDERETTE Washers--25c for 10 lb. Dryers-IOc for 40 lb. ONE 'BLO'CK WEST O'F CA'MlPU'S Cor. Park Pl. and South Ave. Open 24 hours a day 7 day• a week 50 UNITS ~---------~----------· : LUIGI'S ,. I RESTAURANT ,· 1 Specializing in I I Italian-American Food .1 1,' 1125 BARRETT ST. II Schenectady Dl 6-9744 I . . I I I 0% Discount to Union Men 1 Enioy Our . 1 Sizzling Steaks and Cllops ~----~--------------~ FREET. V. • Colonie Motel Special Low Rates to Union College UNion 9-8944 UNion 9-8945 I 0 Minutes from the Campus Midway Albany-Schenectady Road It wa« thus that the leaders of the Democratic party charged the ballot boxes had been stuffed, and demanded a new election. These protests brought to the sur- face the facts that in the months previous to the election, the Democratic Party had in many cases been refused a license to hO>ld meetings. What meetings were held, were soon broken up by bands of thugs which the po- lice claimed to be unable to halt. It was reported that posters for the Democratic party were being defaced almost as soon as they were placed on the walls. Sound truclts for the opposition were halted while Liberal sound trucks were allowed to proceed. At the poles, the election began to take the form of one which might be held in a dictatorship. Democt:atic supporters were in many cases turned away. The observers of the .balloting from the democt:atic party were in many cases placed in positions where they :could not see the ballot boxes. It seemed obvious that the eiection was be- Ing rigged. It was students, who comprise Korea's intelligentsia in the main who began to take ac- tion, as they were most aware of what was going on and r;nost af- fected by it. The demonstrations initiated in Masan, where several hundred students protested the election results from that city. They were brutai'ly repressed by police, twelve of them falling be- At this point, Rhee yielded to the pressure that was surround- ing him on all sides and resigned. The reigns of government were taken over by the foreign min~ ister, Huh Chang. It was ~at necessary to call for the reslg- nation of the man whose election had first started the controversy. On Wednesday, Vice-President Elect Lee Ki Poong died with his family in a murder-suicide pact ~-------------------------------------------------B seeurity and immigration prob- lems and \un-American activit!e.s\ for Congressional Committees for 14 years, beginning with the Sen- ate Intern!!! Security committee, In 1959 he drew $16,409.98 as staff director of the Walter committee. He said that Draper ·gives money to various recipients, in- cluding \patriotic\ organizations fighting CO'Inmunism. . The -committee director said he does not intend to investigate racist or hate groups ·because they are isolated and unimportant. In t'he extended interview, in which he cautioned he was not to be directly quoted, he made an emotional defense of the late Sen- ator McCa;rlhy, who he said was destroyed' -by Jeft-,wing'ers. and hy two untrustworlhy aides, Roy Cohn and G. David SC'hine; Wehyer, identified 8.!3 an admin- istrator of Draper gra.nts, stated that he was \uncertain aoout thl3 details,\ but that Rep:uesentative Walter and Senator Eastland are The last remnants of tyranny have been swept from office in the outgrowth of student demon- strations. It is up to the Kor- eans to decide what wilf become of their government. They can Jive under a. true democracy, or another veiled dictatorship, ex- actly like the one from which they have just freed, themselves. It Is hoped that those students who pr<Jved themselves so capa- ble with mob rule, will handle the reconstruction of government in a manner representative of De- mocracy. \involvw\ in the giving of Draper grants. He said two \c6mmit- tees\ made the final decisions, but he could not reveal who serves on them now, or has served on them. Sen\. Eastland told the re- poiter he could not remember havihg had any connection with Draper. Arens told newsmen that ·his job was always \insecure\ beeaUSIJ of enemies, but that . he would fight. any attempt to fire him. Such a move, he said. would bring \thousands of signatureS from the cross-roads of Afiierica\ affixed to petitions demanding· his reten- tion; He said \pa.tri'Ots\ wo.uld know ;that Communists ~nd pro- Communists were behind any ef· fort to oust or embarrass him. He indicated he has a free hand with committee activity and laughingly showed re:Porters a speech that Walter ·would give, but whi.ch he Said• he had written hi:Qlself and had not yet shown to Walter. 41111.11111111111 1111111111111 Ill 11111111111111111111 I II~ IJI 1111111 I 1111111111111111 II II 111111 II 11 5 Down to Louis', let us go, • Let th~ lag~r freely flow. ~ = A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895- Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parlies accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservaiions phone FR 4-8917 olllllllllllllllllllllll~flll llltilt IUIIIIIIII ~iltll' lllllllltp Ill I 111111111,1 lllllllllllllllln, ~-~~~--·-------·----·-·-------------·----------------- ... --------------------:, j OFFI'CIAL PROM FLORIST PARK FLORIST Call FR 4-9713 for Your Corsage 20 ° 1 o D' t. /c . ISCOUn. : I • i' i i .. I I ! : ! : .. : • I Open Til 6 o'Clock I 126S. Brandywine Ave. i ! ! I ' . ~----·-· --·---- - . -----·--- -- - --------- -------------------------~---- friday, To the l I have terest tb has. been COl'die:ilsi: semester. political· phies; ar president parties i: diversion year. Th for theii college < il:pportan There .dence w either tl the (Jon~ ter~Mr. the edit newspapE to the P' cratic · aborninal received ment, wl a liberal of MT. N pa;rently ception i confines In Standil object t even the disagree ants. B osophy a fortres type of of the I who, inc tincompl' cent ·COI from wt anti-Nix< vere dis the trutl entitled a vehem (1) Or wing pr1 would re 'Tricky : article. Dick\ .is writer, reasonab , to Richa (2) Co guery: o a momei existed • 1940's a1 has ever substant activity other st The rna soon car should b tration spiracy age was capitaliz tion by 1 voting ·1 with wt sira:ble, i difficult ·be inter Obvious! and h!U among or then if it had our bela ·be faced he migb White I 2\.c~ (3) If cused o jumping MacDon necessit: allowin~ error,s c the ap: the evid what a't being f~ of sayin that the a terri PI F 600 ·--·-. L.·~ ( :BAl)( STAT c M F1 171 :M l

911960 Ed coach With able to tea)lls col- the .. Friday • .April 2'1. 1'960 M~·:· ...... ··~a_yh~· ·e_'m~·· _a_.n~d Accidents Plague Teams ·Pitching Performan.ce PacesDiamondActioin By Harvey Heyden · In one of the most wide~open games to date, the Union · ball club doV:·ned Hamilton on Alexander Field last Friday 1 .by the one-sided score of 19-8. Union registered 20 hits in · scoring 19 runs with the big~ - ··· - - - ~-- blow being a grandslam with the help of a double play . home run by Captain Da:ve {rom Thurston to Wotherspoon. Mitchell. In t:he second inning Dick ran into a little control trouble, walk- Tony Tiska started on the ing two batters and giving up : mound for the l'ocals and ga\'e ·UP two h1Ui for a total of three n.tns . . J· t!u·.,.,· r.c~ns on four hits in six in·. Kranzmann was lifted in the thi~d I nings before giving ~1·tl:y .to Bi'll. Inning, going to left fitJid to re- 1 Cohen who pitched tht· seventh. place 'Fbka who came in to pitch. I and\ eighth fi·amcti, g:iving up one Tony, who ·had pitched six. innings run and three hits. Dick Kranz· the day before ag<1.lnst Hamilton, '· mann finished the game, yieldin-g wa:; .Jneffective as the Rochester four 1·uns on four hits and thrN• l!Ht., 1 ::; g 1 .,.,ted hin: 1 with a triple . walks in the nint:h to the Ham- Lacrossemen Exhibit Spirit . And Guts in Twin Wins ilton batters. and a single followed by two Union loaded the bases in the walks loaded the bases . . second inning on two singles and Arm Aggr;tvated \a walk. Then Sachs walked Semo At this point Lawrence lifted and Pelton, forcing in two runs. the ailing right-hander, who had ·With the bases still loaded and aggravated a sore arm from the two 11.way, ·big Ron Wotherspoon game the day before, and ·brought unloaded with a line-drive single Mitchell in to pitch. \Mitch\ kept to right, driving in two more runs. the crowd in anticipation as he Tiska then walked to load the took his warm-up tosses, using bases· again, 1but Krailzmann end- his famous \windmjll motion\ ed the inning ·by popping out to which completely 1baffied the op- the first baseman, Ahrens. position as well as the fans. Dave Roof Fell In got the first batter to face him The score stood 5-3 in favor of on strikes; however, the next hit- the Garnet going into the fifth ter, Conrad, dropped a dotl!b!e frame, but the roof fell in on the down the right field line to seore · By 11teve~ l;)liikel\Il;IIIW. COntinentals. Hayden singled to two runs, Mitchell got the next Sprinter Lew Roht is pictured in the dust seconds he crossed the finish line of the 1()(1-ya.rd dash. In endeavoring to free JUs spikes frQIIl the cinder track, the exhausted Rob.t lost bis balance and in falling dislocated an elbow. • Trackmen Lose To Depth; Roht Wounded In Combat Union's hard-fighting, fast-hitting stickmen smashed center to load .the bases. Semo ~:~i~;.t~uf~~~~e~t~~ ~oa;~~o~!~ through tough Middlebury to a 4-3 triumph this past si~gled and Pelton walked to three runs on three hits. Mitchell Wednesday Playl .ng D 1 F\ ld th , · dr1ve -1n two more runs. Then f' . By Leslie 1\IIa.rrus Sc . or.ed· . • . , on • aoey Ie , e spirited Big Ten' with the bases loaded Dave Mit- lll!Shed the game and turnoo in !L thls SeasonS th rd ,, · cred1'table perfo~ nee on the Followinlr a 77-54 opening loss to Ham1'lton last Sat- I · chell poled a 400-foot home run n~a - victory ~n what was prop- After the game, nei·ther the ~p '\)ll the bank in deep center ~oour~~sfo~n~h~n~;rf;~ ~~~n:f~~ ?-rday, the track team drop~ed their second meet to Trin· ably the1r best performance:!·l\'efs or either coach, would com- f1eld to clear th~ sacks and put the fatal third inning. 1ty, 77-49, this past Wednes ay. of the year ' OJent on the ineident. Ham!lt ' the Garnet out m front to s~y. Semo Leads Off Against Trinity the Union thin·\·>--------------- • . Captain stated tn fl ht ~n s Wotherspoon kept the rally al1ve clads fared almost even In the Facing tough opposition all the.' 'ed on \p 1 e . g was as- by doubling down the left field Union scored two runs in the vray, the Garnet's Lazar scoredl: t'his a Uez:sona ff~Jml osity.\ To line. Tiska and Kranzmann fol- top of the first a,s Semo led off ·running events, but fell behind in first in the opening minutes oE· ·\Ridlc Jo nl~,r; 0 S !Ca. responded, ·lowed suit with back•to-back sin- with a walk, Pelton followed with the field events. The highly . play. AI August assisted him. • g\~e u hues. loonf llafter . the gles driving in the twelfth run lk d M't h 11 'f\ d vaunted Garnet first place scoring . . . · . ~· , a avy ra n e , seemmgly f ' a wa • an 1 c e sacrl lCe ability could produce only four Battlmg m the secand periOd.;.t.rying to wash some of th d o the ball game and the seventh the runners to second and third winners as the deeper Hilltoppe.rs Middlebury was held scoreless :away. e mu run of the inning. Hayden walked with a bunt down the first base handed Union its most decisive untl! attackman Lew Manor fore-. 'UNIO:J:Il' J. and Thurston hit into a fielder's line. Wotherspoon grounded out loss of the embryohic season. ed one through for the -yisitors- 'BAMILTON 0 1 1-3 choice, driving in another run. but Tiska delivered the Import- Here too there was an ass1st. • 0 0 1 1-2 Kopec reached first on an error ant blow, a single to left, to score Elmars Jurjevics, the squad's Entering the second half, the : . by the shortstop ;vJth the four- two runs. · only double winner, and Tom game assumed !1 see-saw actio!I · T • T . teenth run ·crossmg the plate. In the fourth inning Case, the Hoffman, his senior running mate, with first Middlebury 1Jreaking, , enn1s :.' .ea· m Semo ended the rally by popping tall, fireballing right-hander for scored nearly half of Union's and then Union reforming the tie_ : It · out to the shortstop. . . Rochester, ran into control trou- points. .August was credited with the !at-,. T· rt·umph· ant In the .last of the eighth Um~:m ble and loaded the bases on walks. Jurjevics copped his specialty, ter goal score-d f1ve more runs on a sm- He was .then lifted in favor of the 880, and won the two mile · gle 'by Mitchell, a walk to Tom Guche, a little left-hander. 'Pelton event, which Union swept with . Piteh€4 Battle Ensues Delany who had replaced Woth- hit a fly .ball to centel' field to Hoffman second and Gordie Rein- Sweeping into the final period., · By Bob Sherwin erspoon at first base, and singles bring one run home, but the rally· old third. Hoffman won the mile the play ·became an almost pitched:: The Garnet netrnen, this week, ]Jy Tiska and Kranzmann drove ended as Wotherspoon grounded in 4:40.9, with Jurjevics trailing battle between the two fine teams:; took their first two- steps upon in two runs. Thurston then dou- out to the pitchel', The Garnet· in second place, and took a sec- Again the Garnet scored, agalo the ro11d to a victorious tennis bled and Kopec singled to drive scored one run in the seventh on. and in the 880, the visitors tied. Finally, in the' season. With a decisive 8-1 win in three more runs and end the back-to-back singles by Mitchell last seconds of play, Union sticlt-': :at Harper College !\O.d a resound- Union scoring ·for the day. Thurs- and Wotherspoon and a throwing, Bob Holland was the only other men climaxed an almost classic: 1ng 6-3 triumph ove~ a. fine Syra- ton let the Garnet at . bhe plate error by the Rochester catcher. victor with a five foot, struggle bY placing their fourtb , ~use University squad, jt appears with four for five. Kopec had Bases Load~ in Ninth ~014 inch high jump. Ed Gentile ll,nd final goal of the game. ! that thi$ year's edition of the three hits in five trips to the The top of the ninth Inning be- took a third In this event. The Garnet's Ted Detmer, lc: Dutchmen tennis team will be plate, Kranzmann and Mitchell gan to look like a big In other events Dave Connery spite of an injured. leg, rammed . -dif~lcult to defeat throughout the each had three for six with Mit- the Garnet. Trailing 6-4, took a second In the 100 yard through both of Union's goals 1o: sprmg season. chell g-etting a grandslam homer loaded the bases-in the ninth, dash and a third in the 220. John th 1 t · d B k d by finE · to boot, and Wotherspoon went due to a lack of timely hits by Gerken took thirds .in the 440 and : as peno · ac e · ; · The \Witzelkids\ .. Inaugurated two for five. Mike Semo had a shcl~work, and a g.ood defen~e,. • the 1960 eampaign on the Harper good day at the ·bat w. ith two fo. r Dutchmen, coupled with a the low hurdles, while co-hurdler g oal!e John Campan1 was credit· precise and unbiased decisions Norm Lavery took> a second in the . - : courts and emerged the victor. six, and he also made a perfe. ct ed w1th fourteen saves 0 the Rochester \boys in blue,'' the latter event and a third In the • nee the Garnet unleashed some throw from centerfield to cut a . . Alli • · th Garnet failed to push across the' highs. The btg grm on Bruce son :s' of elr powerful serves, onlook- runner down at the plate. tying run.. The inning began on face, as his team s-.;yarmed abou. t ers had little doubt of the out- us· ed Fo••\ Pitchers d t f th D t h In the field events Chuck Mar- h . rk d am w 11 p!ayeil · · Th U · t ·~ a goo no e or e u c men as shall placed second in the discus .1m, ma e e. g e e .·. come. e mon eam proved too T}).e Hamilton team used four Mitchell walked. Wotherspoon It was the best all-around displa:Y: much for the inexperienced and pitchers in an attempt to silence then stepped up to the plate. and a third in the shotput. :aanle of teamwork, spirit, and fair pla:Y· less talented boys from Endicott. the hot bats of the Dutchmen \The Spoon\ belted a tremendous' (of the same nickname) copped a sh'Own by the sticltmen this sea..-·. Jay Vanneck, Bruce Lawton, John but they were to no avail. 'The 450 foot single over the head of second in the shotput and a. third son. Honey, Lou Buckman, Jay Eh- Hamilton hurlers gave up a total the eenter fielder, and with irr the Javelin. UNION 1 0 1 2-4. len, and Gary Binder won singles of 11 •bases OI). balls while strilting great burst of speed, Humphrey Despite three double winners ~IDDLEBURY 0 1 1 1--,il matches. The Honey-Buckman out five Union batsmen and yield- stretched the hit into a double, and eight first places, that old * * * . and Binder-Miller duos were also ing twenty hits. Union hit the sliding into second just ahead of lack of de,pth, against the Conti- In a penalty-stricken game, Ulll\ victorious_ ball well all afternoon, •but they the throw. Ti.ska follQwed wi.th nentals' well-balanced track and ion stickmen sliced through visit:· na.ngerous Opp&ne:nt Defeated did not look too sharp in the a single to left, his fourth hit of field units, negated the Garnet's ing Hamilton 3-2 last Saturday. field with seven errors to their the afternoon, scoring Mit~hell. efforts. Distance star Tom .Hoff\ Opening with a quiclt goal 'by Eod· Possibly the Garnet's most dan- discredit. Kranzmann flied out to shallow man, middle-distance standout El- Lazar, the Garnet were met b:Y .gerous opponent was vanquished :Hamilton's leading hitter was center and Evans walked to load mars Jurjevics and wi·ghtman a. highly aggressive Hamilto:rt' by the snealter-clail. netmen this their shortstop, Lindley, a fresh- the bases with ont out. Thurston Chuck Marshall all turned In twin squad. Jerry2iimmerman a,Ssisteii, past Wednesday; Union scoroo man, who hit a tremendous home was the su:bject of two balks ·by victories, but Hamilton bad to() Lazar. · an important victory over the run 450. feet from the plate over the . catcher which were heavily much overall power for the hap- Starting early in the first quar· Orangemen from ·syracuse. Jay the iron fence in left field along disputed by the Garnet D;J.en less thin clads, te 1 •, the visitors soon were racking Vanneck again lead Witzel's Lenox Road in his. first trip to but the umpires failed to make a Hoffman took the mile and two- 1lP penalties at twice Union's ratE. charges with a straight set win the plate in a Hamilton uniform. call. Thurston then grounded and Jurjevics was honie in until the end o.f the first .hal:f,. over the opponents number one ·He followed later with a sharp into a force play at the plate the 880 and 440-yard runs. Mar- t he Big Ten seemed almost daza.d: tn..an. John Honey, Lou Buckman, sino-Ie to center and a double. to Kopec f. lied out to left field to d E . G b b - shall topped the field in the shot- by· this ty·pe of play. an . nc l'een ush were also left, ending. up wi.th three for five. end the threat. · 1 · .,..,. :PUt and discus with tosses of 45 Garnet regained control in tbt.e· s1ng es Winners. r:.:owever, the de- for the afternoon. McDonnell and Union hit the ball well, getting · · 5th d · · h lk d · feet, six and one-quarter inches, third p· eriod.. Led by Lazar's sec·.• .· ciSIVe -eCisiOn wall c a e up Ahrens each had two hits apiece seven hits; Tiska getting four and b th b d bl and 138 feet, six inches, respec- This airplane is actually a flyin~ classroom. The course taught in i1 is Air Navigation, under real COO· diti<'ns. The students are youn~ men who have been selected as pos· sible future leaders of the Aero- space Team. Graduation after 3~ weeks of training will win each oJ · the students the honored silve1 wings of an Air Force Navigato1 and an Officer's Commission. For certain young men, this training can open the way to ~ bright career of executive paten· tial. Right now the Air Force is scoring impressive technological advances in the fields of naviga· tion, guidance and tracking, elec· tronics and radar. And here is where it!! highly trained and expe· rienced Navigators will be expected to take over command positions of . increasing responsibility. To qualify for Navigator train· ing as an Aviation Cadet, you must be between 19 and 26~-single, healthy and intelligent. And you must want to .build an exciting, interesting career in the Aerospace Age. If you think you measure up, we'd like to talk to you at the neat• est Air Force Recruiting Office. Or clip and mail this.coupon. ond goal of the game, they heLd Y e num er o(l:ne ou es team for the losers who collected only Wotherspoon two, but they .failed :Hamilton to its first scoring of. of Vanneck and Bruce Lawton. ten hits during the afternoon off to get the hits in the clutch when tlvely. the season. \We worked hard: and were up Union pitching. they needed them. One Norm Lavery triumphed in the Th ' for this ()ne,\ stated .a tired John. The Dutchmen took a bus im- spot was the pitching perform- loW' hurdles in :25.5 and took a ere Sa Place for tomornJW 11 S Gripped by Bitter Fight Honey after the match. Syracuse mediately ;llter the game for a ance by Dave Mitchell, and he second in the high hurdles. John. leaders on tlze A bitter fight gripped the last. had beaten the .Dutchmen handily long- trip to Rochester in order will undoubtedly get the starting Gerken was second In the lows. Aerospace Team. u·. ' s ·quarter, as eacl;l. team increaseod· la.St season and the racketmen to rest ov:ernight for their game nod when the Garnet meet Clark- ln the field sections Bob .Holland i·ts score by one, Upion's Al .Au· were out to Q.Venge their defeat. with the University of Rochester son on Tuesd:ay. tied for first in the high jump and gust was credited with Garn~t!s . iVanneclt Injured. on Saturday. Line score: :Chuck Hanle finished second in ·A • Fc • 0 third goal. John Campani we.s. ' Line score: UNION 200 100 101 5 the shotput, and third in the ' If ore· e· credited with ten saves. On Saturday Union will try to' HAMILTON . . . . 021 000 104'- 8 ROCHESTER·.'::.' 033 000 OOx-tl javelin and the discus. . . · In the co.urse of the ga.zp.e, a..t, .. stay on the vicior:v trail while UNION ......... 050 090 05x-19 WP-Guche Two mishaps marred the pro- tackman Gerry Zimmerman smf· they host the meli from .Steven's WP-T.iska LP-Kranzmann. ceedlngs. Union broadjumper Lew fered an injured leg, Bill Re:::J.· Tech. Last year t~e Garnet ten- LP-Sachs o Roht took a bad spill after the man was sent to the hospital With nismen \squeezed o-ut\ a 5-4 win · * * * . 100-yard dash and dislocl),ted his a ruptured ·kidney. (Latest r-e· from ·Stevens, however, this week- It was the familiar pitching Intramural Tra£k e!bc;w. Ramnton~s B9b 'Wilken~. ports have 'him out In ten days). end the netmert vr.lll play without neo:mesis that raised its ugly head who fell during the high 11urdles, During the last seconds of p!a:.y; the services qf star .ray Vanneck. in the face of the Union nine at 1\my i2--Thu:rsilay-4:30 P.M. and Raht W!lre tteated a.t Ellis ·!!- fi·ght ensued between variQlllS · Due to an injury incurred during Rochester, on ·saturday, as the 100 yd. Dash, 440 yd. Run, 1 members of the tw:o :teams. Tile the Syracuse match. 'Vanneck will Garpet dropped a squeaker, 6-5. Put and High Jump;H __ o_s..:.p_t_a_l~a_n~d_._r_e_l_eas_e_d~·----- field was soon Cieared, some of :be out of action. This wtli un- In an attempt to malte a sweep May 18-W~esday--4:80 P..'M; both sides ibeing tnrown out of • questionably hurt the team for 'Of the two weekend games, Coach B'road. Jm):lp, 220 yd. Dash, the game. It was somewhat a..p• 'the Stevens encou:nter, but, the Art Lawrence gave the starting yd. Low Hurdles, 880 yd. Relay parent that the Union stickm<En ·team's .number one man is ex- pitching assignineilt-. to !'Ienior (4 men). had reached tlleir limit in put- pecteci to be set for following Diek Kranzmann. Dick ·began No spikes 1lil:e allowed ting up With H!Unl:lton!s p-ersomal .matches with the University Of the game well by ·easily getting A mali may enter S ev1:1nts~ fouls. vermont a.nd Middlebury College .. the .side out in the first inning two running and one field event or .two field and one running event. At least 6 contestants from each house must compete 'in order to gain entrance points. and 'be eligible to win the trophy. r---..---..,.,.-------,.. I MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY I I AVIATION CADET INFORMATION 1 DEPT. SCL04A I BOX 7608, WASHINGTON 4, D. c. I I I am between 19 and 26V2. a citizen •( of the ·U.S. and a high school graduate I wit . years of college. Pleaso ·1 send me detailed Information en the 1 Aviation Cadet pro$rilm. ·1 I UM. I I STREET I I crtv I I COUNTY. . . . TATE-- I L..-.._ ___ ...,.. ___ _.. .... _j

Friday. 'April 29. 1960 • T • s \ , k . ' · a d1stinction Is · made ·betw~en ani P . e·a· er· All S; need desegregation and integration. ' . · · · . ' · '.1:\ . , · ., • • . Desegregation is the abolition of • Greenough Will Receive [ Council . Honorary Doctorate Award Allen J. Greenough, dent of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, will be awarded an honorary Doctor of Engineering degree by Union College, during the 165th annual commencement exe1·cises on Sunday morn- ing, May 29th. His selection for the honor was announced today by President Carter Davidson. Mr. Greenough, who became the railr-oad's 14th President last Oc- tober, was graduated from Union · AllEN GREENOUGH in 1928 with a Bachelar's degree in Civil ·Engineering and joined the Pennsylvania Railroad Com- pany at that time as an Engineer Cot·p;; Assistant on the New York and Philadelphia Divisions. He subsequently held many top man- agerial posts, attaining the rank of Vice President of the Rail- road's Eastern Region in 1953. Prior to his. election as President last fall, he had sen,ed for four years as Vice President for Trans- distinguished Am~ricans who will portation and Maintenance. receive honorary degrees at com- mencement exercises this· year. Is Californian The principal speaker on the oc- A native son of San Francisco ca 8 ion will be Clarence H. Faust, and the son of an Army Brigadier President of the Fund for the General, 111r. Greenough {JUrrently Advancement of Education and resides in Wynnewood, Pennsyl- Vice President of the Ford Foun- mnla. Among other activities, dation. he is a Director of the Pennsyl- vania Railroad and numerous sub- sidiary companies, the Long Is- land Railt·oad, the Girard Tt·ust Com Exchange Bank, the Mer- C'han ts Warehouse Company, and thP Nntio!lul Coal Policy Confer- ence, Inc. He is also a Trustee of the Penn Mutual Life Insur- ance Company and a member of the American Railway Engineer- ing Association, the American Association of Railroad Superin- tendents, and numerous social and fraternal associations in the east- ern Pennsylvania area. Mr. Greenough is one of four ..................... . . as advertised in THE NEW 'rOR.J\Efi. • & PLAYBOY ' ••• t ••••••••••••••• ' ' ' \ . ' j I ,• I DEANS GATE D(!lphics Elected Seven new members have been elected to the Delphic Society, camjJus honor socity, it was an- nounced today by Joel D. Tick- nor, Delphic President. E:lected on Wednesday were Gary Gross, Thomas Grange, Peter Houlihan, Fred Powell, William Kirchgas- ser, Robert Pfeiffer and Stephen Spencer. According to Ticknor, they were ·elected on the bl!.sls of· \outstanding service to the col- lege.\ AUTHENTIC NATURAl SHOULD.ER SUITS & SPORT COATS Season after season, DEANSGA TE is re- garded as the authentic natural shoulder model. We present it now, in a great variety of fine wash 'n' wear fabrics, in the newest colors and weaves for 1960 SUITS $39.95 SPORT JACKETS $29.95 lt)atl's 1599 UPPER UNION ST. 9:30-6 P.M. Thurs. & Fri. till 9 P.M. The Reverend Henry Tani, Ex- (Continued from Page 4) discriminatory laws, while inte- ecutive Director of Youth Work .to eat lunch. During my stay at gration is social ccmtact betwe~n (Continued from Page l) be primarily in the hands of the t two pe 1 o~ d1'fferent races for the Evangeli.cal and Reformed Spelman, I attended a play a , · op e ... .· · Publication Board. He said, \I D g· t' · th Negro's f1'rst Church, w. ill be the guest speaker Emery University with an inte- · ese rega 10n 1s · e don't think that it is neces,sary gnnJ ·\'h · tt'tude toward in at the c. om. munity Vesper Serv:ice. gr:ated grou·P· After the play we· .,..,. . ... e1r a 1 . - or pro.per to handle this in this· · te t' !thou h lt wo· uld be in Memorial Chapel Sunday even- went to a small coffee hause in gra ton, a · g • . ' , manner!' ing at 1 P.M. Mr. Tan! is a pion- the city. . We were served and, greatly welcomed is,. \Let us first Walter Casey asserted •:th.; cam- eer in the forming of small cell ·with the exception ot a £ew-.seat- .reach the point ·of swbtle North- pus newspa:per is a campus news- groups of young .people for re-· ed patrons walking· out, little ·in- ern prejudice and then we will paper.\ He emphasized that since· ligious study, for setvi{Je pi·ojects, itial ~uss :vas ;nade, ~his was • deal with it.\ the Student Council is a major and for finding ways of applying the flrst hme m. the h1Story of ---~---~-~-~~­ function of the student ;JJody, it Christian principles to their Atlanta that a Negr.o had been· should receive full covei·age by the, chosen vocations. served in a white restaurant r!:hat; ·paper and be considered the most The service is sponsored· jointly had not been dese!l'regated by the· important item in the paper. He by Union College, the Pilgrim courts. As we were leavh1.g the· concluded, \I don't th•ink a letter. Congregational Church, and the owne!' asked tll,at the ex;peri'ment would hurt.\ ·Friedens Evangelical and Re- not be repeated out of considera- -The motion was passed. dent Ruth stated that he dispatch a l'etter to the requesting more com.plete age. Presi-. ·formed Church. The Reverend • tion for the value of his ·prop-· would Harry A. Foster, Pastor of the erty. editor Pilgrim Congregational Church, The Negro in Atlanta and in.:t cover-. will read the Sct'ipture and lead deed all over the South will not the prayer. It was through the ·:;;top at desegregation of' J,lllblic efforts of the Reverend Bru~e Cle- eating places. Discrimination 1.60 LAFAYETTE ST. Hoyt Repl)rts 'On Cheating ments, Pastor. of the Friedens: governs every asp.ect of their \Where Chapel meets 'lafayette\ Hoyt reported on the activities Church that the ar:rangements! lives from education to cemetery •f'Ranklin 2-05·01 of the N.S.A. and also on a sur- \:ere made for ~rocurmg the ser- plots. This discrimination must ·----• vey concerning dishonesty in col- VICe of Mr. Tan 1 as speaker. · be abolished The denominations that these · leges, the .gist of which was that two churches represent are carry-. It is interesting to note that· .forty-nine percent of students. ing on negotiations aimed at what. ''f':;;;;;;;;::;;;::::::;;::::;;::::;;::;::;::;::;::;::;::;::;::;::;====~======~===~7il questioned at a California uni- Dr. Norman Johnson has termed· 1r versity admitted to cheating .. ever higher coopeuation and have·. In the committee report, the already achieved close cooperation • · Traffic Committee revealed that in missions, education, and ben-.· there is a sca:rcity of parking evolences.\ spaces in relation to the number ,---------------: of cars on campus. The1·e are only 530 spaces for an estimated 700 cars. The Schenectady Branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People has announced its an- nual membership drive, which will begin with an address by Mrs. Ruby Hurley on Monday, · May 2, at 8 P.M. in the IUE-. CIO Hall at 121 Erie Boule- FERRO'S RESTAURANT Specializing in Italian-American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking D'l 6-9554 II 15 Barrett St. Before adjourning the Council approved a motion by Ed Ruth · that .he send a letter to the I.F.C. commending their action on de- ferred rushing and suggesting that there be furthe!' cooperation between the two organizations. -- -·- ~===-.Jb::=============~~=·---=-============~==~ vard. 1 2 3 •• • •• •• • • •• •• •••• •• •• • •• • • • • • • • • • • •• B R L T R A N s L AT I 0 N Bringing new knowledge to eager finger tips Braille has opened up bright new worlds for thousands and thousands of blind persons. However, the difficulty of trans- lating printed material into this complex \touch language\ has limited the number and variety of publications. To make more Braille material available, a method of tran- scribing the printed word into Braille automatically has been developed by IBM scientists in cooperation with the Ameri- can Printing House for the Blind, The text, in punched card form, is processed by a high-speed IBM electronic computer. The computer can translate a 300-page book into its equivalent Braille in less than an hour. It takes all ldnds of talents to develop computer systems that cart handle complex jobs like this. Expanding computer appliqtions at IBM have crean;d opportunities in research, engineering, programming and h1anufacturing. Perhaps one I B M·: these IBM careers fu the \future\ you've been looldng for. You are invited to contact your College Placement Officer to find out wben our interviewers will next visit your campus. Or write to Manager of Technical Employment, Dept. 874, IBM Corporation, )90 Madison Avenue, New York 22, New York. • W« Virg Stan Play Hi~L Prom \i will offici ning witb at the Va: music wi the Tiger first timE band. Th~ all out ej weekend: unprecedE known eel the secor brated Hi Precedin~ interfraterr Chapel at ' be an en'l.er urday's fes Athll TomorrO\ schedule. there will baseball ga Following 1 will be spar After ·dim boast the,; who have Steve Allen a chord lik happy air.\ will entert! Chape'l. climaxed ~ the individ It is a sponsoring PI'om Wee: of '61 feels ened this c the first ' on ·campus cannot fail matter ho> esoterics o Will \We ex1 three )l.un for Satur ance,\ saic of the w He went c that ·•the proach the for the re excellent.\ party wee to the con door. The Hi-l la~gest ex have mair. few years number o: ing grot throughou AFR( 1960( The Al presented ion Colleg standing military a presentati• at 4 ;3(} P Field. Receivir conferred cadet at tain John medal awl outstandir tary and The S·t>n lution me· Cadet Ma This awal outstandir to. enter Captain J MedalHol Forces Co tt·onics ll and acad• The Re tion Awa1 'Jl'homore • A/lC Bru award is 1 Cha;oter l C~det 'l received 1 ence Aw: standing ert Patte Arnold A lege Sq,ua Arthur F. standing The C Medal A'v T/Sgt. J'O

