'1960 3) the Whe- an just re- stu- If a sa- his the on a efused at the nflicts •Rushing ·pro·posa] Page 3 VOL. 89, No. 13 Campus ·Chest Collected $159 This year the Ca:mpus C'hest has collected $159.00 according to Joel D. Ticknor, Chairman of the or- ganizaiio;n, 'Ifuds sum will 'b~ aug~ mented hy the 'Pro-ceeds 1)£ the an- nual DeLphic Society Auction wfu.ieh. shall t;Ute place sometime during the Spring. As always, the distribution of these funds 'Wiill be decided upon by the vote of the stu.dent bod;y. · During past year_ th1s .h:as resulted . in donations to such organizations as the Negr~ CollEl'ge Scholarslitp Fund and several loca.l cha.vitiea. Tlhe .Campus Chest, a daughter organization of the Delphic Soci- ety vtas originally initiated to ;pre- vent solicitation lby. numerous charities on the caanpus. UnioiL Your attention is again called to the college policy 'on housing students. .All students are re- quired to live in the college dormi-. tories with the following excep- tions: a. Students living at home or in ·fraternity houses. b. Married students. c. Students excused by Mr. Schmidt' 'vho are working for their rooms. d. Students excused by Dean Pollock. · Penalty for violation. Of the above college rule concerning !ltucl.ents r~quired to live . in tlre dormitories is on:e ·semester's room rent of $150.00. Founded at Union College in 1877 . . . ·s'CHEN'E!CT~DY, N.Y .• f/RI'DA'Y, 'FEB 1 R'U'A'RY 'S, 1960 llel!mer Webb controllin,g the :President Davidson and Bu..-;iness. Manager MciDwa.ine tJhe first nto~th's construction of the library. Courage Profile 'PCige 2 PRICE TEN CENTS The promotions approved by the Trustees were divided equally be- tween the Arts and Sciences, each field having four professors pro- moted from Associate Professor to Full Professo!'. Professor Edward J. Craig came to Union in 1956 as a Pro- fesso!' of Electrical Engineering. He is one of the three alumni of Union College in the group that was promoted. He holds a Sc.D. from M.I.T. In the one-yea;r period begin- ~ Septel.nibor 1, 1958, Union;s Admissions Office posted 32,~99 pieees of mail, 8{) per cent of 'Which were i.itdividuaJly eyped.

2 Published Fridays during the school year by the Student Body of Union College, SchenectadY, N. Y. National Advertising Rep- resentative: ~atlonal Advertis- Ing Servlee, Inc., College Pub- Ushers RePresentative, 420 Mad- ison Ave., N. Y. C. Etl\tol·ial Offl<\e \Va\hburn Hall, Union College, Publication Of- fice, The Gazette Press, 331 State St. 8ntered in the St·h.e- nectatiY Post Office as S~·w~nd Class Mail Matter, subscl'lpt!On tOe a copy; $2 a yettr deli vci d. an,·where in the United States. SENIOR BOARD PETER J. STEINGLASS '60 .....• Dl 6-714~ ........... Editor-lit-Chief LANCE M. BARASH, ;60 .......... 1>1 6-~~59 ........ Busin~s~ !lla~>ager PAUL L. WOLLMAN '60 ..••.....• EX 3-079! ......... lllanagm!' ~d. nor JOEL KUPERSMITH '60. , .••• , •.. I·; X 3-15o:l .••...... As•o<;>ate ,~tlll•>r ROBERT J. GALVIN '61., •.•••..•. !II 6-~u1S ...•....•.•••• :\ews \8d1to~ LESLIE D. MARRUS '62 • , ••••••• DI 6-9959 ............. Sports Editot JU;NIOR BOARD Mark Krugman '60 ................................. Photograph_y ~~:tor · John Wahl~g :so .......................... · .... : '\.A..i~\i-it\s.lnA'~a~a~~~. Harry Rubm ,61 ......................... , : Loca; Ad . e ·tislll g Marmber Stuart Cohen 61 ....••........... ·. · ·. . :-;a tiona \ 61 ,g_ E lit Gerald Bock '62 .••••.•••••..•.•....•.......•...•. · ·.: · Acti~·t~~ 1 :,~llt~~ Rona.ld E. Drusin '62 ........................... Asststant • e Ed't . Arthur H. Friedman '62 ............................ Co-F;eatures Edit 01 I,awt·ence H. Lentchner '62 .................... • .... • ~o-1• 6!J:ture~ 1 or Louis Abelove '6;, .................................. Cm;ulatwn • anager A Modest Proposal The rushing proposal, subrnitted to t~e Con~or~iensis this week by Mr. John Lubetkin and prmted .m 1~s ~~­ tirety on Page 3 of this issue, derives most of .Its s1gmf1- cance from the fact that it is the first substantial at~empt this year on the part of a student to offer,a .solution to Union's rushing ills. We sincerely hope that this proposal, alono- with several others that are reported to be fOl·th- comlng shortly, will initiate. the b!~akthrough so sorely needed in the stagnant rushmg pohc1es of the HPC. Unfortunately Mr. Lubetkin's ideas are not as si~ni­ ficant as his sense of timing. For what he proposes 1~ a deferred bidding system rathel' than the deferred rushmg concept which was under consideration l~st year.. Mr. Lubetkin's proposal is based upon the premise that If one exumds the rushing period over a full seme~ter rati:er than confining it to the present two-~eek penod, the m~ crease in time will lead _to a slackemng of pressure and result in a leisurely and relaxed rushing period. Yet it would seem just as logical to assume that if formal rush- ing is extended over a full semester, freshmen would quickly fall into a pattern restricting themselves ~o. a single fraternity and the result would be an unofficial \pledging program\ for the remainder of the first sem- ester. It would seem that Mr. Lubetkin's main objective is to eliminate the financial objections toward deferring pledging until the second semester, objecti.ons which were paramount in causing the Deferre~ Rushmg. Proposal to be defeated last year. However, m attemptmg- to solve these financial difficulties, Mr. Lubetkin has failed to in- clude in his proposal guarantees that there would be a significant lessening of upperclass I?ressure on fresln~en in their first semester, a feature which should be a pnme objective of any \deferred\ proposal. Thus, although Mr. Lubetkin's proposal has its adv~n­ tages, its loopholes are far too numerous to warrant 1ts approval at this time. The Final Phobia With the college now having at least partially recov- ered from the shock caused by its first experience with the two-hour, six-day final examination period, we can take a moment to meditate on the merit of the new sys- tem. Although the two-hour final received wide accolade around the campus (which was, incidentally, justly earn- ed) those students who attempted to approach seriously the problem of taking five finals in five days (if they were fortunate enough to get so generous a schedule) found themselves by Saturday suffering the neurotic symptoms of a large variety of nervous disorders. In this world of overwhelming tensions, must we be so burdened even in the place we believed to be our haven of peaceful intellectualism? Letter to the Editor To the Editor of Concordiensis: opposition to such a move, par- Your article of the January 8 ticularly from the campus politi- issue regarding the \S.C.-H.P.C. cians who delight in the fiction clash\ presents this writer an op- that they are \student Jeade!'s\. I portunity to maJte a comment on suggest that t'hey ccmtent them- this subject. Obviously, this exist- ,geJves with class offices 1V'here ing division of student authority they can't do any harm. JU1other hinders effective student govern- group may comment, as Mr. Ruth ment. Therefore I suggest the ab- put so \1'.-en thaA: \the coW1cil rep- olition of the so-called Student resents 100% of the student body Counc'n and transfeJTing its paw- while the H.P.C. only about 60- ers and f-unctions to the House 70%. This is a legitimate ]}oint, Presidents' Council. The reasons except for one detail. The 60-70% for this step are obvious and may -that are fraternity collSititute 95% be easily explained. of those who are involved, active, Fi~st, the melll.bers of the Stu- and vocal in campus life. Never- dent Council are, for the most theless, as a sop to this group, I .part, elected because they are further suggest that tile H.P.C. be \nice guys\ (cheerful nonentities) expanded to inelude an independ- and are clay in the hands of the ent member -be certainly can't do few competents on the Council. much harm. T'he addition of the On the other hand, t'he members ind~pendent representative and of the H.P.C. are elected for the the President of the student body respect their fraternities have for would bring the membership up their leadership ability. While oc- to nineteen, not appreciably larger oasional \bungler may slip in on a than the present seventeen. popularity ticket, t;he. need for a The reconstituted H.P.C. should ca.pable hand on tlb.e fraternity be given a new name to -indicate controls is clearly recognized. its new role but s'hould keep its Second, the Houses have clearly existing informal procedures and, defined apparatus for the removal at all costs, avoid the rule \by com- of officers. Thus recall is always mittee heads that has made such in the hands of the student body. a mockery of the Student Council. Third, since there is hut one The -above suggestion, being sen- member or each fraternity on ~he sible, will win no \official\ osup-- H.P.C., all clharges, true ·or false, port. This Writer can only hope that X or Y house is running the . it will stir up some good fist- college will disappear. fights. Naturally there would be large B. Bruce-Briggs, '61 'F.-iday, 'February 5, 1960 ROTC Change Proposed Tempest 1n a A Profile In Courage By Gera.J.d Bock The infol\..n.ation for the article wb.idh follows was obtained as a result of a personal interview the author had with Mr. Kavanagh. In this age of payola and rigged quiz shows, a man who acts purely for principle's sake and scorns money calls t'O mind a Don Quixote in modern garb. su~h a man is Peter Kavanagh. Yet last January 16, the New York Public Library brought suit against Mr. Kavanagh to halt distribution of his book The John Quinn Letters -Pandeot. John Quinn was a New York lawyer who devoted his modest fortune to the patronage of art and literature. He was far in advance of the pu,blic in his ap- preciation and sUpport of such greats as Conrad, Yeats, Synge, Joyce, Eliot, Picasso, Matisse, Derain, Braque, and many oth- ers. When Quinn died, typewrit- ten copies of his correspondence with these men we1·e bequeathed to the New York Public Library. Quinn's will was interested by the courts in such a way as to prohibit the copying or publica- tion of the letters for 50 years, beginning January 2, 1938. Letters Under Lock and Key The letters have remained un- der lock and key in the manu- scripts room of the New Yorlt Public Library. They are open only to accredited scholars. Peter Kavanagh decided that this was a gross injustice. He felt that by 1988 no one would remember the Quinn letters, least of all John Quinn. Kavanagh felt, and cer- tainly with some justification, that John Quinn, whom the New York Times called \one of the most courageous rut patrons of our· times deserved ·better than the obscurity of the Manuscript Room of the New York Public Library. He decided that strong action was necessary. Mr. Kavanagh applied to see the Quinn letters. His creden- tials were ample. He had writ- ten two articles on Irish Litera- ture for the Encyclopedia Ameri- cana and had edited the whole series of articles on Ireland. He also wrote The Story tD:f the Ab- bey Theatre which was published in 1950. He holds a doctorate from Trinity College, Dublin and is the brother of the Irish poet, Patrick Kavana;gh. Before being granted permission to read the letters, however, Peter Kavanagh had to sign a paper promising that he would not copy or pub- lish what he read. This did not intimidate Mr. Kavanagh in the least. He read a volume a day for 13 days. \They were watch- ing you all the time,'' he recalls. He memorized choice excerpts. Barbarian Took Notes Conditions were far from ideal. \There was a barbarian from the University of Indiana taking notes next to me with a type- writer,\ said Mr. Kavanagh. \A manuscript room is a sacred place. In most libraries you can't get a pencil into one. But he was making a racket, whacka, whacka, whacks, and a vibration while I was trying to remember what I was reading. \Why he said, \bringing a typewriter into a manuscript room is just like bringing a traitor into a church.\ Three times a day Mr. Kava- nagh left the li'brary with his head crammed with excepts and a notebook in his pocket. He rushed down to the sidewalk and there took out the notebook and poured out what he had memor- ized. After 39 such sessions Mr. Kavanagh was satisfied. From h,is notes he selected 160 excerpts to be printed. Peter Kavanagh printed the books at his own press, \The Peter Kavanagh Hand Press,\ which Is located in the main room The surroundings of the press are no Jess extraordinary than the press itself. No two walls of the room are the same color. One is red; one is blue; on.e is !black; and one Is white. The wind ~Is­ ties through the framework of the windows and Mr. Kavanagh walks around his apartment with a blan- ket wrapped around his should- ers. String lattice W~trk on which the printed sheets dry is strung overhead from wall to wall. Mr. Kavanagh. picked out the type with pincers and set the vol- ume line by line. It took three hours to set a page, and two hours to set the cype in form, read SCOTIA Ar'+ Theatre NOW THRt:J WED Nightly at 7 and 9 Here Is a. German film that achieves t'he near Impossible feat of making comedy out if the last 50 years of Gel.\lllan life. 'Aren't We .:WOnderfur· ~~~~=~ KURT HOFFMAN BEST 'FU.:M . ..,. - Berlin Film Festival - prnof and make corrections. Then .---------------- ... ----· It t{)ok two h()urs to run off 129 I sheets for a limited edition of 100 ON CAMPUS I numbered copies with 29 being I discarded as being imperfect, The DIAMONDS STERLING ~ volume contains 53 pages. Mr. WATCHES CITY HALL LAUNDERETTE 529 Liberty St. Kavanagh worked 17 hours a day · and slept five. ! Do 11 Yourself Laundry f The ex:cerpts in the•book a1·e not GORDON verbatim but come very clpse to • I Washers- 25c a week it, he says. JEWELERS 1 (Holds up to 10 lbs.) Peter Ka.vanagh defends ibis 1611 Uper Union St. I Large Dryers : IOc for I 0 min. ·act as moral and ne~essary. 1 (Holds up to 40 lbs.) \Quinn is the abs<>lute key to ALL REPAIRS DONE I Open 24 hours a day - f twentieth century -art and litera- t d k I ture, as far as one man can be 7 ays a wee 1 a key. Yet he's totally forgotten '-:::;::;::;::;:=:;;::;;::;;::;;::;;:::;:;::~:-:-=-::-::;-:-==-::-::-::;-::;-:-:-:-=-::-::;-:-~t deliberately. He followed genius .;: and the extr-aordinary thing is that he pi\oved to be right. (luhm Was Alert \When everyone else was danc- ing the Black -Bottom, Quinn was alert. America can only survive on men !Ike Quinn, and men like myself.\ The court ~»rdered Peter Kava- nagh to show why his books should not be destroyed. Mr. Kavanagh refused to hire a law- yer and told the people from Yale and the Uni-versity of Chicago and Life Magazine, that if they DIAMANTE Restaurant and Bar Visit Our New Dining Room A Place fo Go to Relax Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott St. Open Daily 10 to 3 A.M. Sundays 5 to 3 A.M. wanted copies of his book they ~~:::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::;-(F;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ would have to use their influence -~ to llelp him. They tried. but to ' n() avail. They, \the Pygmies\ L. Gl! BALFOUR CO. from the Ubrary, would not be moved. CARL SOREN'SEN On January 25, Peter ~vanagh ,BADGES -RINGS- FAVORS walked into the l:\rew York' Su- JEWELRY preme C{)urt carrying a brief case. LEATHER GIFI'S He poured out its\ contents before STATIONERY - PRoGRAMS Judge Steurer. To keep the Li- CLUB PINS - KEYS brary from getting .possession of MEDAlS - TROPHIES his books, Peter Kavanagh had slit them in lulf lengthwise. He Write or Call gave only the bound side of the Fr~fernify Je.welers books to the court. Twelve cDples 171 Marshall St., Syracuse, N.Y. of the b{)ok are still in existence. Phone Granite 5-78B 7 For All Your Paint and Hardware Needs See Us CAPITO,L PAINT & HARDWARE CO. 730 STATE ST. Phone f:R 4-4123 Mr. Kavanagb. has two; a friend, Patrick Farrell was given nine; 'l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ and one was mailed to the Bt·itlsh II - Museum in London. The library dropped the suit and the court allowed Mr. Kava,.. nagh to lteep his .two books, •but warned him nC>t to dispose or exhibit his bool1s without the ex:- pressed -cDnsent of the New York Public Library. Said Mr. :Kavanagh, \it's a shameful thing to see a library burning books . • . The battle has been lost but the war Is not yet over • . • In every generation- it's necessary to stand up against the hoodlums and tight for decen~y. FERRO'S RESTAURANT Specializing in Italian-American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA · Free Parking D·l 6-9554-. 1115 Barrett St. sensibility, and t-ruth.\ 1~======~==================;4ll Friday -.----· To the ~l).e is to l crete s• rus,hiil! Last Rushin for.e tl:i F,[Qu~e WB$ Ii1 college ferent system by :tne omic r Rust many ally u cerned been.li lOll, ~rty, a dent b pres en ing. The merits tern. lapse Ietic J cheatiJ drive iency 1 the pr the sc verse!~ pletel~ Jact 1 rushii:l uegati lege I The Orient s!ons minist sttl.der ticipa1 years that 11 cation rules AJ No1 ed sin and•Sl or AI applie Qr otl ment is, is Colle~ The this. absoit cilitie fresh! wise turn indep• highli were, fo·r tl frater Thu have must frater tratio: not a: can s men of th• ternit ial r1 men,. in clue ternit The as ev lot of of the Systea frater pay f, offici~ posal give show! faith, as a was If nom, to th• posit!\ The defen from andt perceJ I.f t in ret they! cost c ent s: men 1 durinl taxes, partie mini:rr receiv frater semes he sh 11111~ L L .II IIIII

De- heir Nith in of to heir pro- and of the on ents the re- and men the and the ollo- be Qib- is the Act in. I & t. Friday, F~bruary 5, -1960 A Rushing Proposal Uniou's Placement Office Saint Olaf Choir To Perform Sat. 3 To the Editor of Concordiensis: costs. If these costs are under the fresl)men will pay the house G•vea. F;lyures .t ...... '59 17'4e purpose pf i;he foll~wing what he is ·p\J.ying now there is no that they go to three dollarf! for It 0 -' I' . · · .J:u • The St. Olar ·cho-ir, ,under the is to put forth a definite, con- justification fQr a half year~s free , meals, and ten dollars .for meals direction of Olaf 'C. Chrlstenilen·, - crete series of proposaJs for a new ride at individual fraternity ex- oh tne prom weekend. Nearly one-'half of Union Co-llege's 1959 graduates are will give a performance tomorrow rushing system at Unron. 'pense. This is, _of -co 111 .se, entirely vol- J • • f II night a<t 8:15 P.M. in Memorial D f ed eont.inuing· their formal higher el:lucatiOn on e1ther a U Ch 1 Thi · b · Last yea:r when the · e err · Mq_ney from the freshmen can. untary. The fraternities cannot · ape· s program ts · emg Rushing System was brought be- go to the houses by ·two general make money, but rather will have or part time basis, according to a, survey just completed sponsored :by the Schenectady fore the Student Council and the paths. The first is a large, direct cash <laming in to help defray by Union's Placement Office. Adult Lutheran League. House Pt~esidents Council therll tax on all fresl::unen when they the cost!! of the meals, Every This group, consisting of sixty was. little. doubt that the overall' entet• Union, while the second is !house can invite wi.th<~ut the Of the 222 young men who re-~ ---- -·-- members, gives a capable per- college comml!nity wished a dif- one of paymeilt a,t indirect inter- ·constant fear of losing great sums cei~ed their bachelor's degrees at 1 ed for by the survey, but ava:il- formanee, i.e., Without any musical ferent .fOL'm of rushing. The new va;ls. of money. The freshmen are, at Umon last Jllne, 106 (47.7%> are able information indicates that in-. accompaniment. They have been system was, though, not approved The -question of direct assess- the same time, paying a truly said to be the singing model for ):iy :tne HPC, and for valid econ- ment, as the ol)iy source of rev- nominal figure. pursuing advanced studies, most dividual stipends range from $ 500 college choirs and are considered omic r~asons. ehue, is basically unsatisfactory Freshmen are under no obliga-. ·of them in the graduate or pro- to $S; 500 per year and total over the number one group ·'in this . . - . • $60,00(). More than one-third of ~ushing .this year, despite to both the frater.ni~y and fresh-· tion to accept an invitation, but fess1onal schools of maJor umver- 1 the 106 students received some country. Their singing has been many mocj.ifications, was gener- men. The only real a~vanta:ge if they do go. to a fraternity party sities. Of tbese, 90 are engaged , form of aid or remuneration. described as \novel wit-h a deep ally unsatisfactory tQ. aU con- is that the fraternities initia;lly t)ley should understand that they· in educational pursuits 011 a full 1 musical insight.\ Their program cerned. Since last year there has receive a large sum of money to . do have a definite responsillility: 1 Salaries Noted consists of various selections of been little change in college 'Opin- rUsh with. , to pay. Stressing this fact dur-, time llasis, -while the remaining I The average starting monthly church music_ They will start lOU. The Administration, Fac- The problem, though, are many. ing the orien.tation period will- 16 hold regular employment and· salary for engineering graduate,; out with heavier deeper music and urty, and the majority of the stu- The most important questiun is eliminate the house that attempts are devoting spare hours to their II this year was $485 and for those end up with carols and hymns dent body Wjsh to discontinue the the distribution of the moneY· to get the f!'eshman by telling' schooling. entering the business field $435. such as \Carol of the Drums\ present two week syste~ of rush- Splitting it ~venly seventeen ways him to forget about paying. This, according to Union's Place- and \Our Savior.\ ing. is not fair to the larger !;louses. One Otlh.er Rule Necessary Schools Enumerated I ment Director, Henry J. Swanker, The St. Olaf Choir comes from The maJ\or question is- not the If a perceJ;J.tage split is called for, Chosen as th.e setting for their 1 · was somewhat higher than the St. Olaf College in Northfield, d f . -t· b ? What qther rules are necessary merits of the present rushing sys- what should its e 11.11 1ons · e · work were appropriate graduate · national average. . (Continued on Page 4) tem. T·he almost -complete col- The variations in. plec1ge classes' in this Deferred Bidding System? or professional .sc·hools of 50 col- !a;pse of the intercollegiate ath• from one year to anoth\lr cannot All realize that a major cause for leges and universities, distributed :!Jllll,llllllllllllillllllliiii.IIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIlllllll:llllllllllllllllllllllh 1 11111111111111!,; · d I ddi th the failure of our .present system - = Je_tic pro. \'ram student apathy to be cons1dere . n a ng up . e geographically fl•om the Univer- == =- \' . lay in the fact that there were· cheating, and lack of i;n.tellectual number of persons m any 'OI1e· sity of Hawaii to the University - - l ld · · d too many rules, too difficult to - D II' - drive show the appaUing defic- house s lOU semor..s, marne of Bulogna in Italy.. Those which -·--.: .· a s =: d · 1 b enforce, not .clearly defined and Ieney of student morale. Although brothers, an soc1a mem ers attracted the largest number of t Th . t• 1 · 1 thus open to constant haggling. - _ t.he pres.e.nt rushing system is not coun ? IS ques 1on a one IS a-· students were: .Syracuse Univer- == ---- t bl \th t The only other rule is that the . the sole cause .of this, and con- most insurmoun a El, .wl au fraternities are not allowed in sity, 9; New York University, 8; - LAST OPPORTUNITY SAlE - versely no new system c::~,n com- even beginning to take mto ac- the freshmen dorms after nine Albany Law School, 7; Harvard § . 1,; § P letely cure this, n. everthel_ess the co.unt the fa<lt that it is unfair University, Co-lumbia University, - - h h h at night. There will .be some. : : \act remains that the presen.t to those fres men w o ave no and Albany Medical College, 6 - - \' rushing groups in the dorms the - - rus. hihg. system is· in.herently a desire to pledge a house. each, and Yale University,·4. === SPORT JACKETS _ ==- first week or so., but after this nl)gative force in the overall col- $10 Asses!lm.'ell.t Reiquired 1 believe that even this rule will Medical Cor denta;l) studies lege pi~ture. Yet I do not believe that this b drew 26 members of the class, = = The reports of the Freshmen source 'Of revenue should be en- e;~:tec:~~~:riy does this lack the largest single group, Other = $15.00 and $20.00 OFF - Orientation Committee; discus· Urely passed over. The fraterni- of rul()s mean? Can a ·house take popular fields, in order of prefer- slana with members 'Of the Ad- ties need some sort of sinking a boy over to Wellesley for the ence, were: law and engineering, SUITS m inJS· tration, Faculty, and fellow fund to fall ba~k on. AccordinglY 14 each; business 9; physics 6; :weekend, keep him out till .three students, as well as active par- the first f:i.rulincila.l step in the De- in the morning, and all the rest? chemistry 5; hlstory 4; and ma- $21.00 and $31.00 OFF tl .cl·pa-tion. in rushing for four ferred !Bidding S\'stem calls for T thematics, S<!ience, and teaching \ he answer to this is yes, and for years have firmly <lOnvinced me a. ten dollar l!Ss.essment of all a very elemental reason. The 3 each. Fellowships, scholarships, that more than just mere modifi· fresihmen at registration. This process of time aJ.one will reduce tuition awards, foundation grants, _ SLACKS catitins of the present rushing money is to be evenly split among tJhe intellSity of rushing to 111 :fa.r and other types of financial assist- - _ rules a:re urgently needed. all the houses. It will mean that m'Ore logical and rational level. ance were only partially account- $6.00 OFF Approaeh to New 'System at the outset of rushing each That h'Ouse that in the past . : - Nonewsys.temcanbeapproach- .house will have some $175 that it relied upon a high pressure, in- SPORT SHIRTS - ed simply on the ibasis that such... can count on. sincere rushing program ·Will 1 over - and·such worked a.t a Williams This is the only non-voluntary a full semester, destroy themselves or Amherst, and thus should be part ·of the system. Althougm., if they attempt to try the same - 50o;'o OFF SWEATERS applied to Union. Unfortunately admittedly not >fa,ir to those .who type of operation. The finahdal 'Or otherwise. at the present mo- definitely know they are not going 'safeguards that are in this pro- ment the fraternity system, as it to join a house, the new system posal also will not cover the is, is a social necessity at Union gives the houses, and the fresh- house that goes overboard in its 3 oo;o OFF College. men, a much l'Onger chan~;e to party program. fOal 'ROUND THE = - h t U ion Careful Orientation Needed - this. Until this. year thez;e were are many w o come o n AND UP TO SQO/ OFF ON ENTIRE T -here are no two ways about carefully look at each. other. '],'here R 0 n: u nd -===== absolutely n<1 adequate social fa- feeling that they will under no Closely tied in with this is the /o cilities for the non-affiliated circumstances join a house, and necessity of a must careful Fresh- STOCK _ freshmen and :upperclassmen. The then-join one. The rapid disin- men Orientation Program. Be- H h = wise administrative decision to tegration on the national leva} of sides performing their usual func- ear t = ;~~p!!~~~o~~pr::~~a~~:nto o~~; ~~~~~i~~: :!t~~ce a:~st cu~~;:~ ~~g h~~e ~r~;;:\~~o ~~~;!~~: ' § t h :t th house open to every freshmen. The men the hows, whys, and ramifi- STOWE'S GD£ AT SKI DORM = N]) 11 ' highlighted the fac · t a · ere ten dollar·s that ~he. freshman will t• f th\ t A · ill \ 1 ;:_ were, and are, no sqcfa! facili.ties < ca IOl1S 0 IS neW sys em. - a s fo-r the freshmen outsitle of the be paying at registration is act- more careful budgeting of time Warm, casual, glowing with good con. 5 . fraternities. ually guaranteeing a far greater during the Orientation period can panionship, 1:he Round Hearth's tl:. 5 MEN SHOP _ Thus if the freshmen are to opportunity to be fairly rushed, see this done in the same time ·lodge to rest and refresh yoursel. : _ have an adequate social life they and also for the fresl;unal;l to span as has •been used in the ·past. Hearty fare, <lancing, relaxing aroun. 5 1599 lJlP'PER ·UNII'O'N' 'STR'EET _ must have it within the existing make a more mature, balanced Also there should be more nrien- the famolls circular fireplace-it add E: ..... fraternity system. The Adm.inis- final decision. tation for the orientation staff lip to fllnl O:nly $6.25 a day with tw':: _ t t . \th d · ·t ._,_ can Money Raised Indirectly members themselves. meals, $40 a week. Write forfolder o. :Hours 9:30 to 6:00 Thursday and Friday Till 9 P. M. -==- ra Jon el er oes no Wl=, · The 1 \ndi\r·ect :method of ral·si\ng Gett\ ff th · ..... t f t · not afford to, or doesh'.t think it · mg 0 on e rlg.u 00 IS Tel. STOW:E, Vt., ALpine 3-7223 5 can satisfactorily regulate fresh- money is, i~elf, subdivided into <Continued O<n Page 6) iilllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllll~ men social activities. Because two general categories; meals and of this, as in the past, the fra- parties. ternities have shouldered the soc-. By keeping the present system ial responsibility for tlle fresh- of having freshmen over to the . men,. and any new system must houses four times a week (M'On- include this function of the fra- day and Wednesday lUllch, Tues- ternities. day and Thursday supper) for meals, and :paying for the meals The running of the fraternities, with tickets, the pro'blem of food as everyone well knows, costs a lot of money. The actual failure expenses is averted. With the ·complete refund of meal tickets of the :proposed Deferred Rushing the houses can finan{lially afford System.l~t year was ·because the to put -out h,i\\' quality meals, four fraternities would 'have had to - 6 ~ pay for fifteen weeks of rushing, times a week, ana with no adde official or otherwise. The pro- ·expense. The 'freshmen -will. of course, welcome this most pleas- posal .by the Administration to ant change 'Of pace, (some don't give each huuse $100, thereby like cafeteria f<~od) and are pay- showing the Administration's good f · h ·d d b ing nothin~r extra. ait ' was consl ere . y many Before I go further perhaps it as a slap in the face, at best it was inadequate and unrealistic. would be advantageous to mention the fact that N. Y. State issues Student Action Neeqed special licenses for the selling of If the Administration can do alcoholic drinks. To limit the . no more than this, then it is 'up confusion when I talk a.bout to the student body to act in a \meals\ in the next few para- positive way. graphs I mean the payment for The system I pr&pose is 'One of . supper, with <Jocktails, beer, and deferred bidding, rushing lasting the rest 'on the house.' from September through January, There should •be five party ' and the :freshmen slha.ring a. g.ood dates. These iive dates include percentage of the actuai ()()sts. the first three home football If the freshmen get something games, the fall prom weekend, in return there Is no reaSon why and a Christmas party. Invita- they should not pay a part of the !:.ions wlll be given out by the cost of rushing. Under the pres- houses as In the past. However, ent ·system every piedged fresh- men pays four bills to his house during the first semester. Social taxes, prom favors, subscription. parties and the like come to a minimum 'Of $40. If a ·freshman receives all the benefits of the fraternity system for the first ~ semester there Is no reason wlly he should not pay some of the ~Nne~ When In New Y01'k VisitC!tQipp 14 E. Mth St. • New York 17, N.Y. MUrray Hill 1-0850 Since 1.895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. · Large parties accommodated in our . RATHSKELLER Seniors- find out .what Kearfott's flexible ~training program offers You Check the experiences of jour '59 graduates at Kear/ott Not at all surG of the area (lf engineering (develop· ment, design, test, manu· facturlng) which would Interest him most, Jim has been- most Impressed llY the way Kearfott Project Engineers STAY WITH A PROJECT from study phase right through to produc. tlon, assuml_ng full tech· nlcal and 'financial respon· sililllty for the quality and salability (price·wls!ll Qf the finished hardware. He finds that this l<earfott philosophy enables him to operate across the broad spectrum of engineer· lng.*•• Coming from out· of-town, J lm was also .pleasantly surprised by the wide choice of living quar· ters readily available. The very advanced ·nature of many Kearfott projects ffred this eng-Ineer's imagination. He joined the Electronics Systems Lab, where he worked on the development of a tiny counter- part of -what Is believed to be the most accurate test equipl!lent yet devised for ·missile guidance systems. After exposure to the diversity of the projects In the Sys- tems lab, Stan has decided to look no further, llut re- quested-permanent asslgn- ment here, where work ranges oyer space naviga- tion, digital computers, guidance systents, SCllid state physics, Industrial automat! on systems -<tnd diverse electronic systems. A GENERAL PREeiSION COM·PANY Kearfott Company, Inc. 1500 Main Avenue, Clifton, N.J. A. sttbsidiaru·ofGenerill Preoi8Uln Eqttiztm~t (JorpMatitJJl -Len Is pleased with hIs six months' experience at ·Kearfott on two wldelyccllf· ferent counts. 'First is the combination of both theo· retical and practical knaw· how he has gained In a field that has fascinated him for a longtlme-tran· sfstor applications. ne other is Kearfott's loca· tlon. Finding midtown Uew York only 40 minutes auay by car, Len, a veteran, Is planning to continue his studies for a11 MS at one of the many colleges in the New York/New Jersey area, Columbia, N.Y.U., S~evens, Newark College of Engl· neerlng are all close ily. This semester, lell llas enrolled for two Kearhllt sponsored courses husht at the plant. Gary has worked by choice In two Laboratories since he joined Kearfott last June -Astronautics and Electronics. He values the opportunity he had to work In direct contact with senior engineers and sci· entlsts who have played a leading role In developing the Kearfott Inertial systems and componenls which have 'been selected for application In over ao aircraft and 16 major missile systems. Gary now leans to the choice of a permanent assignment In the Electronics Lab but has decided to work a few months In the advanced Gyrodynamfcs Division, be· fore coming to a decision. Opportunities at Kearfott are expanding Long occupying a unique position in the fields of electronics and electro- mechanical components and precision instrumentation, Kearfott- in recent years- has moved more and more into the development of complete systems. This has lead to major staff expansion at all levels, including a sizable num· ber of positions for recent graduates in all'! major company units: The Systems Division The Gyrodynamics Divi8ion The Electro-Mechanical Divisi011. The P1·ecision Co?nponent Division Through its flexible TRAINING PROGRAM, Kearfott offers young engineers freedom to explore the field, before selecting the broad area best fulfilling individual interests. Remarkable rapid p1·ofessional advancement is possible- and likely ~through the PROMOTION BY MERIT POLICY. For detailed information, see the Kearfott representative on campus. ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS .fEBRUARY 18 FOR ASSISTANT PROJECT ENGINEERS Make an appointlnent now with your Placement Director, or write to Mr. Francis X. Jones.

Friday, february 5, 1960 4 Curling Team Begins 'Garnet Skiiers O!ganize; Keglers Place First .~ ~.€:' S· .; ''Ch . . '' Plan lnterco,llegtate Meet ~ 1 C II' · t L .. uea on as amps Union College's recently organized skiiers will have . n 0 eg1a e . eague Curling at Union has had a short but spectacular t~1eir first competitive test Jan~ary 31? ~hen they parti- Union College's student bowling team wound up their history. Last year the team saw the birth (}f this Old c1pate in the U S. Amateu-r Sin Assoc1abon meet at Mt. pre.:Christmas competition in first place by a wide margin World sport at the .college and meteoric success as the Royal, outside .of Johnsto_wn. • on the capital district Inter-'Colleg·iate Bowling League. quartet, according to Jonn.-!> ~ · --~- ---- ---- The gt:o~Ips . fust coHeg1ate sional Ski League and will .remain • other league teams are R.~.I., than Pearson lll \coasted' compet1t10n Is planned Feb- in competition with each other at I Siena, Hudson Valley Techmcal to an eas v Easte;·n College I mary 4-5 at Syracuse U ni- invitational meets all winter. Institute, and AlbarJ,y State Teach- '!, . ··1. \ i \'ersitv's Invitational :Meet. L~ague standings are determined! ers Colleg~. ~atches for the C liU1l,Pl01l:S up. I • by ~he comulative points of all league, wh1ch IS u~der the !lu- Curling is a winter sport some- Althoug'h 'skiing is not an offi- meets. Union cannot joi:n th.e , spices of the American Bowlmg what resembling shuffleboard in I cia! varsHy sport at Union the League unless skiing becomes an Congress, will be resU!ned early it:> mal>eup. .\ltlwu~;h its t·xact I 12-man );roup· receiv\s the formal official varsity s;port. · in January. They ·are held at the uriglll is ur.l>nu\\'n, it fir·.<t hP-.1 support of the College's Athl£tiC Co-captains of t}Je Garnet skiiers Colombia Bowling Lanes in ·La- came ]Ju1Juhtr in ·scotland in the I IJt·parunent. If int.,rdt a.nd pro- are n:aytnond Buyce '61 and Fred-.1 thams on Monday evenings. sixteenth century. The P.rots en-1 Jic1ency develop further, skiing erick Waldbillig '62. Others on ·I Stln Top BO!Wler thusia:;tic:ally aJupted tht• game' may be> r\cog\nized as a varsity the team are R.ichard Kane '6-1, I e and t11ruu·~o;lt the1r cff\rt..; cu1·1ing' ,;pm't. according to Athletic Direc- James Livingston '62, E!'ling S1>l- The Garnet team is paced by devdu!J<:U and ~Jll'•'\d to many 1 tor Wilford Ketz. The College has stad '62, Ju.lm 'Shrader '61, Ulrich William Stine, a senior chemis• countt·ic·,;, TlH' fir't ~;amP~ WPI'P I had mfm·mal ski team:s off and Fontaine '62, John Peeling '51, t:vy major, a rated s·chenectady play~d on frozPn ponds with wat-j on m the past. Judd Sher·nlan '60, Patrick Dugan .bowler ·and holder of a 229 single er worn boulders with ho.les for\ G3, and steven Strong '62. game 'score in the leagUe this the thumb .tnd fing0rs in thP Nine Skiiers Participating ----o year, Stine is vice president of :;tcJI;es. The nfne skiiers making up the All studt>:uts interested in plll'ti- the Intercollegiate Bowling Goost>nt>cked HandlE' UsPd unofficial team have been prac- cipating in a study-diseussion League. He won the Union Star TlH' ganw is plnyPd by two I tieing on the Schenectady Winter group, part of the \Great Deci- tournament a year ago and went teams uf four m~n <\RC'h. on an I. SJJorts Club's runs at Pa:tterson- · \' CI b ill to Omaha, Nebraska, in January, ~101J.S • • • 196\ ' · u , w •m-eet on icc rink at lea.-;t 48 yards lung I vtlle, New York. FollO\\ing there- Monday, Februa.ry 8, at 4 :30 P,l\1, to compete in the National Bowl- uno H feet \VidP. At each end opening of College fur the second in roOilll. l()S ih Ba.iley Hall The ing Tournan1cnt. of the rinlc, four concentric cir- semester on February 1, they are topic to be discussed next week is . On December 1, the team rolled cles are drawn from a centet· call- to be coached by H. Richard · · a s1'ngle game of 1,·,018 points \Divtded Europe , . . Cooperati-on ed the tee. The curling stones Lewis, Union '59 of Scotia, and or Crisis?\ which was the highest game ever which weigh 44 pounds each are will practice tlll'ee days a week. 0 recorded in the league. In that thrown and controlled by mea~s HERBERT MANDERVILLE The team expects to havea better Applications are now being ac- WILLIAM STINE game, Ed Stammler scored 218, of a goo.seneclted handle, ext en - · appraisal of its potential after the cepted for the 1960 Community Bill Stine 215, Ray Sabatelli 203, ing from the center. January 32 meet, wh:ich will in- , -'b Pete Schmidt 203, and Ben Fal- \\'\\ assado·r Program. The A!m- Each of the four ·players on gan State is the Western Champ, elude coml{etition in the downfrlUl bassador will represent Sclh.enec- cigno 179. eith<Cr team alternately take turns having beaten such teams a:o No- race, the slalom, CI'()SS-country, tady in any of the five following \The team has grewt potential thl'Owing two stones down the tre Dame and Northwestern. This and jumping. countries: India, Belgium, ;Costa Varsity Lacrosse prac- and is rounding into good shape. rink toward the concentric cir- year the challenges are being is- Competition for the Syracuse Rica, Brazil or Greece. For f'ur- tice will be held Monday We are slowly leaving the rest c!es at the other ends. The ca:r sued through the Grand NationaL meet will be stiff. The other en- ther information on the pr1>gram 1 .n of the league far behind us. We tain or \skip\ of each team i- Such returning curlers as Dav- H RPI contract Professors Gilbert lfar- njght at 7::30 P. M. plan as many tournaments as pos- rects his men by means of a ies, Huber Manderville, Lou Abe- trants: Colate, amilton, ' ' ., R b _._ ,., d the Fl'eld· House. si:ble,\ said Peter Schmidt, cap- broom which he sets up as a tar- love, Gilbert Bell, Jay Ehlen, Cornell, and Syracuse, are all low, A Ian o e\ \\• or \\or en get. The skip also periodically George De'Cenzo Mike Evans, and members of the Western Divi- Silber. (Continued on Page 6) sweeps the ice to keep it clean Thomas Johnson give Union a • of chips and other debris. .After strong nucleus for a successful all .sixteen stones have ·been te!llm. thrown, the team whose stone is Faculty Participation Interesting closest to the tee receives a cor- Administrative and faculty par- responding number of points. Gen- ticipation by Professor Bronner, erally ten rounds constitutes one Joseph Fleishman, and Jonathan game. Pearson, curlers, all serve to Curling Team Unrooognized maintain interest. It is quite fit- The origin of the sport on an ting that Union have a curling intercollegiate ,basis came as a team, for the number of active result of the efforts of the Grand ~urlers from Union is the great- National Curling Club of North est in the country. To gain final America several years ago. They recognition this team needs the set out to establish college clubs support and interest of the entire through various alumni groups. student body. The Schenectady Curling Club --o·--- asked Jonathan Pearson III to St 01 f look into the possibility of start- , • 'a • • • ing a curling team at Union, (Continued from Page 3) With the help of Harold Davis '62, Minnesota. The group was start- whose father is a past-Grand Na~ ed fif.ty years ag'O by F. Melius tiona! President, a club was event- Christensen. the father of Olaf ually founded. Although the club C. Christensen. Since their be- is not yet a recognized campus ginning, they have been touring activity, the Athletic Department parts of the United States yearly. for the three hours per week prac- They also have lleen abroad four tice sessions to the 18 freshmen times, being highly applauded at and two soph()mores on last year's all ,p~rformances. team. Doctor Christensen, the dirac- The team challenged Colby, tor, is professor of Music at St. Yale, Hamilton, West Point and Olaf College. He received his M.I.T. to matches, however the B.A. degree from St. Olaf, his ·replies of the schools that an- M.A. degree from Union Theologi- swered the inquiries were all neg- cal Seminary, and an honorary ative. Union therefore declared doctorate from .st. Olaf. He has itslf Eastern Intercollegiate Curl- been director of the choir since ing Champion by default. Michi- 1941. Positions with Potential ENGINEERS· CHEMISTS· PHYSICISTS Cerctmic • Chemical Electrical • Industrial • Mechanical Metallurgical National Carbon Company, America's foremost manu- facturer of carbon and graphite electrodes and anodes, impervious graphite, brushes for motors and generators, dry cells and flashlights, arc carbons and a wide variety of other industrial products, offers positions to qualified B.S. and M.S. graduates in the fields listed above. Positions are available at National Carbon Company's 16 plants, located in the following states: Iowa, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Tennessee, West Virginia and Vermont, and throughout the country in our sales organization. Interesting, rewarding careers in research, process and product development, production and methods engi- neering, product and process control, machine develop- ment, plant €ngineeri:ng and sales. A National Carbon representative will be on campus - FEBRUARY 10 NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY Division of Union Carbide Corporation ~~:,tfg.NAL CARBON AND GRAPHITE PRODUCTS EVEREADY TRADE·MARKS PRESTODE BRAND ANTI·FREEZE KARBATE BRAND IMPERVIOUS GRAPHITE IBM WILL INTERVIEW FEB. 23 & 24 IBM invites candidates for Bachelor's or Master's Degrees to discuss opportunities in Applied Science, Manufacturing, Marketing, Product Development and Programming .. positions throughout the United States. Laboratories and manufacturing facilities are located in Endicott, Kings- ton, Owego, Poughkeepsie, Yorktovvn, N. Y.; Burlington, Vt.; San Jose, Calif.; Lexington, Ky.; and Rochester, Minn. Corporate headquarters is located in New York, with 192 branch offices in cities throughout the United States. The IBM representative will be glad to discuss with you the type of career of particular interest to you. IBM offers: • Leadership in the development of information-handling systems. • New applications for data processing and advances in computer technology. • Favorable climate for continued cateer growth. • Opportunities for a wide range of academic backgrounds and talents. Contact your College Placement Officer to arrange an appointment for a personal interview with the IBM representative. If you cannot attend the interview, call or write: Mr. P. B. Hazard, Branch Manager lB. M (BN\ Corporation, Dept. 868 · P.O. Box 1044 . . Schenectady 5, N.Y. · -· FR 7·8521 . . . . ® Uill;RNATIONAI.. BUSINESS MAt;HINE5 CORPOR_ATIOit r ~ . '· TJ ... • \ • • fridaJ u N Co a~ tet sn: ing .st defeat a gan ArmoJ mont. inspir1 encom pedod sights ies wh 19-gar next t Openi game with town, ruary , The speeds I eel. in 23 poir the wa late gc verdict was I< Witzel, commt Hoi Hol11 shots throug and fi' way f mates. perfoi'l honora Small Big in a s1 peatin 1 Kings termec lege c points the vi time t The for a and h: best e this s• land's Marsh The the C! bit sh: as the to the to an the D half t forts , shall. To th Of th The this lc not t< my s~ the sl memll do n-o has b• feel t rect t Ver: team; it rea tion < der < Thei'E mentl WhOSE The 1 porta place team. !zing who kebba could to th how· the'V that, The made to n: teach teadb adult sure chan1 Tht the II whlcl who!• I'm a as zn, :hate recei: to t: \fine you Larr: tions the 1 of i One of be such only hard wlhtel

0 J he by of wl- ver We pos- > ~riday, •February 5, 1960 5 Win Over Norwich Ends· Nine Game Losing Skein Mermen To Meet William's Might Mter Opening Double Victories By John Lubehldn ~------------------------------------------------------ By Leslie Marl'Us ~ ::::::::::::::~;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::1 Coach Carl Witzel's quin- tet snapped a nine-game los- • ing .streak on January 12 by defeating Norwich 61-53, in • a game played -in Norwich Armory in Northfield, V er- mont. The Union hoopsters, inspired by a win in the last encounter before the exam pel'iod, will now have their sights set on further victor- ies when they complete their 19-game schedule in the next three and a half weeks. Opening the remaining nine- game schedule will be a bout with Wesleyan at Middle- town, Connecticut, on Feb- Campus Cui lings Off to a fast start with victories over Buffalo State Teachers College--· ( 55-40), and King's Point (50-41) :the Union College varsity swimming team will have to face the aquatic facts of life . when they meet Williams 1-==========!..1 this coming Wednesday. The away meet will see the Below is·. a letter carried in the January 13 edition of the Bowdoin Orient. The letter by Tom Brown, Trin- ity '13 will be of interest to all those students who read the January 8 article in the Concordiensis en the \Pot- ted Ivy League\. · Dutchm.en facing one of the best. small college teams in the East. In 24 attempts to defeat the Eph- men the Dutchmen have done no ·better tllan a tie; last year's 45¥..- 39% score will be almost lmpossi· ble to improve on. ruary 10. , The team, paced by sophomore speedster Bob Hollan_d who turn- ed in his best performance with 23 points and 21 rebounds, led all the way but had to hustle in the late going to nail down the final verdict. The win was one that was long anticipated by Coach Witzel, the team, and the college community. Holland Scores From Field Holland, who excelled in jump sho-ts and follow-ups, came through with nine field baskets and five free throws, to lead the way for his hard-driving team- mates.. In recognition of his fine performance Bob was accorded honorable mention by the E.C.A.C. Small College All~Star team. Big 6-6 Max Steele also turned in a superlative performance; re- peating his achievements in the Kings Point game, which many termed :the best game of his col- lege career. Steele bucketed 16 points to help the Dutchmen gain the victory column for the first time this season. The squad hit 23 of 58 attempts for a good night from the field, and hauled in 59 rebounds for its best effort in that department this season. ,In addition to Hol- land's 21 gra;bs, Steele and Chuck Marshall each garnered 11. The Garnet never lagged behind the Cadets although things got a bit shaky in the Ia..st five minutes as the Horsemen gave free reign to their sophomore talent. Away to an 11-8 first ten-minute lead, the Dutchmen rolled to a 36720 half time lead, mainly on the ef- forts of Holland, Steele and Mar- shall. BRUCE WAlSH At the SO-minute mark, Union led 50-42 as Connie Udell, Sam aoss and Bob Potvin sparked the host team's comeback. The Ma- roon · closed the gap to within two points at 54-52, but Steele and Holland came through in the pinch again to keep the team out of trouble. Union Shooting Good Union's good shooting, a 37 per- cent performance as compared to a feeble 23 per cent against Kings Point last Saturday, gave the team the necessary points for a 20-point lead just after the sec- ond half got underway. At this point the Garnet led 40-20. Norwich, which lost its sixth in nine outings, picked up 54 rebounds to stay even off the boards, but were sadly laclting with only 18 field goals in 76 tries. Potvin was high scorer for the losers with 11 and Ross was the only other double figure man with 10. Summary: Un!on- Ho!land Houlihan Marshall Steel a Pelton Walsh Morgan Karp Totals G F P 9 5 23 2 2 6 2 0 4 5 6 16 2 1 5 3 1 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 23 15 61 Norw1cll- Bailey Ross !l;renke Udell Tracy Yanda Sweeney Becker Kent Potvin Totals G F P 2 0 4 3 4 10 2 5 9 4 0 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 3 0 0 0 3 2 8 3 5 11 18 17 53 Letter To The Editor To the Sports Editor Of the Concordiensis: The main reason I am writing this letter to the Concordiensis is not to bite back <lr to thrOlW in my say~so, .but rather it is to let the student body know i:lhat the members of the basketball team do not hold the same opinion thaot has been expressed by others. We feel that It is necessary to cor- rect the many false assumrptiolnB. crowd. I'm sure Ws hard to follow a losing team., but it is twice as hard to p-lay on one, and three times as hard to coach oine. In ending, I'm sure I speak f1>r every team a.t Union in saying that if you Will only give us a little patient support, we can as- sure you a return of victory divi- dends in tlhe near future. Bob H~lland, '62 Very few people outside of tJhe Sh team. understand the proiblem as Old M'RSter 1 OW it really exists. The 'VIiUrole situa- tion can almost be Cl3JSSified :un- To Be Exhibited dar one heading: \adjustir:nent.\ They are listed alphabetically here with their founding years and present student .bodies: AMHERST . 1821 1039 1864 817 BOWDOIN. . 1794 810 COLBY . 1813 1114 MIDDLEBURY .. 1800 1224 TRINITY 1823 1347 WESLEYAN .. . 1831 790 WILLIAMS . 1791 1040 There is plenty of ivy her~ no colonial charters from a British King such as the senior Ivy Leag- uers boast of, but all except one of oul' group have passed the cen- tury mark. and should be mature enough to carry on athletie rela- tions with not much more fric- tion than crops up between glee clubs. and debating teams. Size Not a Factor .A,s for comparative size of stu- dent bodies, the spread here is not so gr.eat as to discourage for- malized competition, especially since strong informal relations already exist. The third and most important question is: Can these colleges league together under reasonably tight controls such as those which have made the Ivy League a work- able o!'ganization and the envy of all honest colleges which are sick and tired of the sports tail wagging the academic dog? The answer may be found in the extent of their friendly com- petition on a cultural plane as well as the astonishing range of their atllletic relations. During the !rust .four years, for example, these eight colleges have averaged 34 football games per season among themselves, and in other sports tl!ere has been almost as close association. Objections Listed Now let's look at what niay be regarded in some quarters as the most serious objection to such a league: the difficulty of the smal- ler colleges living up to an ath- letic code as strict as that of the seni()r loop, What does ·the Ivy Leagu.e {)Ode of 1953 call for? (1) No athletic scholarships, di- rect or indirect; (2) Eligibility requirements: e.g. no student to be considered eligible for the college team until he has \completed sat- isfactorily\ a full year's academic work, and thereaf- ter maintains \goo-d progress toward a recognized degree.\ (3) No Spring football pr-actice. (4) No post season games, except in N.C.A.A. competition. Additional regulations close the eligibility door against any ath- lete whose pre-college career has been tainted by a subsidy, or whose post-college educati()n ha.s Th~e are actually two adjust- An exh'ibit of drawings by the ments taking place and a third old masters, dating from 1480 to whose progress is almost stagnant. 1880, Will open at the Old Chapel The first two, being of equal 'im- Gallery from 4:00 to 6:00 P.IM. portance, are actually taking fuis Sunday afternoon, Felbruacy place between the coach and his 7, and will remain on display team. ::Many of us are finally real- t!hrough February 28. !zing that ilhe person among us Loaned 1Jy the Lyman Allyn who knows tihe :most ab()ut 'bas- ·Museum of New London, Connect- kebball is the C()ach, Those who icut, the exhLbit wiH include ~ could n,ot adjust to this fact and items in a wide variety of media, (Continued on Page 6) . to. the situation of being taughit ranging in magnitude fr<~m small how to play ''better\ ball, fell to drawings to first draft sketches the wayside. 'l'h.e rest of us feel for large cOiffipositlons·. Repre- that we !have made this trans'lf;ion. sen ted will be the major schools The l)ther adjustment has been of bhe four-century period...,.,-Ital- made by the coach. His job w'a.s ian, French, Dutch, German, Eng- to make the adjustment from Ush, and American. teaching kids how to 'Play, to teaclhing shall we say maturing Names the Names adults. If you stop to think, I'm Re.presented also, according to sure tlhat you can see wll.ose Professor Wayne Nowack. of the change was l:lardest to make. Art Del)artment, Will be suclb. fam- The final adjustment is by far ous names as Van Dyke, Veronese, the most i!Xl!Portant. Lt is the one . Tintorreto, the architect Palladia, which the student body, as a and the French p!J.inters Ingres whole is not malting. In a. way, and Renoir. An 1880 sketc'h by the I'm almost glad that we have lost latter is the most recent of the 30 as ~any grumes as w'e have for I'd works, while fue oldest is a. draw- :hiate to w'in 10 :gaJ!IleS in a row and ing done in 148() by a German receive the -sa.me treatment given master. Among the interesting' to the mea:nbers of last year's items -w'lll be a drawing lby tlhe \fine\ ball club. In case some of early American !painter John Sin· you have forgotten; remember gleton Co,pley and French and Larry Robertson? Similar reac- Italian baroque stage set designs tions from students tend to give' from the 17th and 18th centuries. the student body a.n appearance Be My Valentine! Sweetheart, , and 1''11 buy your Gift ~t Maurice B. Graubart & Sons, Jewelets, I 66 Jay St. We ccm depend on their 3 generation reputation. Williams a Tltreat Reviewing the Williams team is always a discouraging task. Suffice it to. say that Williams is in the midst of a successful re- building project, and have tre- mendous depth and balance. Pos- sibilities for Union firsts can only come fl·om co-captains Ed Ruth and Jirn MacDonald In the free- style events. Following Williams the Dutch- men will meet the University of Buffalo on February 12, and N.Y.U. on February 13, both meets being home events. Kings Poin~ ()lose The January 9 victory over Buf- falo State was not as close as the score would indicate. In a surprlsi!J,gly dull meet that saw only one close r-ace, the Dutch- men loafed home with five first places, eight seconds and four thirds. Ruth broke llis 440 yard freestyle pool record with a 5:09.8 clocking and MacDonald bagged the 500 and 10{) yard freestyle events. The only o.ther Garnet firsts came to John Lubetkin in the 220 and the 400 yard freestyle relay team of Lubetkin, Glenn Prebis, Ruth and MacDonald. Shal'ply contrasted with the Buffalo meet was the victory over King's Point. Out to avenge their h.umi!iating 45-41 defeat last year, the small Dutchmen squad picked up seven individual firsts and the final relay. A large crowd saw some of the closest races i!]. years. Overall credit goes to c-oach Ed Fedosky whose team won simply bacause they were'in better condition, and were able to constantly come from be- hind to take firsts. Double winners for the Dutch- men were Ruth, MacDonald and sophomore Steve Diamond. Ruth easily won the 440, and moving over to the butterfly, fOT the first time since his freshman year, won the 200 yard event by half a lap • Pictured above are the melm'bers of the swimming team and their coach Ed Fedosk.y. Front Row (left to right)-Scott Flan- agan, Howard Adams, Ji'ID MacDonald. Center Row (left to rig·ht)-Lloyd Nuriclt (manager), Robert HemlPrson, Glenn Pri- bus (off the team. for :medical reasons), Steve Diamond, Jobn Lubetki.n. Back Row (left to right)--D{)n Crist, Lew Buckman, Ed Ruth, Gerry Mayer, Erie Teicholz. in an unusual race that saw the next three men disqualified. Sen- ior Ruth missed the record by only a few seconds and would seem a strong ·bet to break it be- fore the season ends. In the 50 yard freestyle a bad start cost Mac,Donald his fir-st as he had to come from behind to edge out King's Point star Abbis Gill. The 100 yard freestyle saw slender Jim stick to an old Irv- ingism as he got out in front and stayed there. Diamond T.brills Crowd In the meet's closest races Dia- mond thrilled the crowd ·by de- feating Raymon Donahue and Abba O'Boyle in the 200 yard in- dividual medley and the 200 yard breast stroke. In the. first race Diamond Jim's luck was amazing The only other individual winner wa.s senior Lubetkin who too.k the 22(), The. former sprinter led all the way, and also picked up the Garnet's only second, in the 100. Dutchmen third places wer-e picked up by Dave Henderson (two), Howie Adams, Scott Flan- nagan, and Don Crist. The fast improving Henderson show-ed real promise in the backstroke, and his determined performance in the individual event was more than his King's Point counterpart was equal to. Adams swam his usual good race while in the 440 Flannagan lost count of h()W many laps he had to go and miss- ed the opportunity to take sec- ond. Crist Looks Good as he won, des}}ite the fact he Junior diver Crist looked ·better was a good foot in -back of his than in previous meets but was man. In a. should-have-been pho- not equal to King's Point excel- tographed finish the cocky sopho- lent men. Sophomore Eric Tie- more won when Donahue, only cholz, who is coming along very inches from the wall, brought his nicely, unfortunately missed a right hand back to take another practice dive the previous Mon- stroke--when he should have day--winding up with a jawful of glided in-and in the split second 1 stiLches and a badly bruised hand Diamond was able to touch him --and so saw no action. out. The breast stroke saw Steve The 400 yard freestyle relay wait till the last lap, and then team was the decisive factor, es- eome from behind to win ·by a 1 pecially as the meet depended on foot. I (Continued on Page 6) LAGONS AND SING PRAISES OF GENESEE . .. BRIGHT AND GOLDEN AS A BEER CAN BE. JENNY'S BREWED WITH NATURALLY PURE HEMLOCK LAKE WATER AND THAT MAKES THE DIFFERENCE. LIFT A SPARKLING GENESEE TONIGHT! of irresponsibility and a'PaJt.lcy· All, Professor Notwack said, are One can't begin to express the joy \ ••• choice exaJJnples of old mas- of being on a victorious team, but terly draftsmanship. Tlhey were such is a hollotw joy when it is selected for t!heir expression, indi- only shared by t!he players. lit's · vfouality and directness and make hard to piay against opponents one of the best exhibits the C'ol- Henry The Genesee Brewing Co., Inc., Rochester 1 N.Y. • wih'Eln one of them is the home lege has ever had\. 1 .!.===•=======;;;;::;~1 •

j Fr:iclay. february_ 5, 1'960 6 ------------------------------~--~----------~·---------,------------~~--~~--~-- Swimming ... P l fraternitle.\1; though, will .pe able Campus Cullings • • • Trustees. • • ' roposa· ' to lteep thei·r integrity and fin- . · · : ·. . • ·• • ancial independence. For ·one (Continued From Page 5) •(Continued from. iPage 3 ) semester the freshmen are not (Continued from Page 5) costs versus the potential re- been promised ·by any institution wards. Unquestionably, it would or group \not closely related to take considerable funds and much his family.\ bard work t\O organize this league What has happened to Ivy and build up solid sentiment .for League athletics since this code it. Possibly it could rUI). into ad- was adopted? Have they found ministration and alumni opposi- it burdensome, has it hindered tion in some quarters. But this their success, affected their re- writer believes support would cruiting of talent? Not so you come in powerful measure upon can notice it; on the contrary it rea;]ization of the plan~s great bas brought them closer together, merits: the added pre:>tige, bound stimulated all sports, resulted in to be reflected in a much wider broader and more cordial rf'la- choice of applicRnts, whether ath- tionships in non-athletic activi· letes or not; increased -interest ties, encouraged lasting personal and funds from la1·ger attendance friendships, and withal has been at games; a revitalizing effect on an intellectual stimulus. minor sports where participation <Continued from Page 1) it. Going into that race the of obviously vital importance. To pledged, but still are given a gpod tions in Schenecb!.dy and Fhiladel- Dutchmen led with a .slight 43-41 be included, In the proposed new. soci;:tl life, at an actually reduced phia, serving for several years as lead. Perhaps overconfident the program Is a defilnite interfloor cost. Both fraternities and fresh- head of marine sales for G. E.'s team of Lubetkln, Prelbis, Ruth athletic p-rogram. thereby tangibly· men wm ~be able to take a long, Philadelphia district. and MacDonald had believed lf ibuiTding floor and class unity. careful •iook at each ocher. Fin- Since his return to-Sdhenect;ady they could carry King's Point The Deferred Bidding· System ally, and what is more impm'i:·ant, in 194 o, .M;r. Belanger has played down to the relay they -could win. should see the actual bidding tne college community as a watole a major role in Company opera.- Kings Point, though, had pulled done on the preferential basis will benefit a.s the incoming fresh- tions. Within the past decade their top sprinters out of the 100. that was inaugurated this ·past men are not split sl?venteen dif- alone he has served as General ·and put them in the 2 and 3 posi- year. No freshman, though, ferent ways two weeks after col- Manager of 1Jhe Large .Aip\Paratus tions, hoping to build' up an in- should be able to pledge a house lege oegins. replaces spectatorship; and the Athletic Scholarships? inevitable re-appmisal of college It's not generally known but athletic responsibilities as a there is nothing in the Ivy whole. League charter to prevent a mem· This is submitted with the hope ber college from trying to inter- that it will provoke earnest con- est athletes in enrolling-the pro- sideration in all the potential hibition is merely again~t ath- founding collPges of a league that letic scholar·sbips as such. When· will do Nt>w England proud! an athlete gets in, actually, high TOIIU' Brown, Trinity '!3 grades may qualify him for fin- . ancial aid. This would cerl:l inlv hold for· any N.E.I.L. agreemPnt of a simi- lar nature. Now, why N.E.l.L. in prefer- ence to t-he initials of Little Ivy League or Junior Ivy L£'a•gue, 1<.'\'s say? \Veil, would you lil<e it called \Lily\ or \Jil?\ This is viewed as a strictly New England conference; the lvy Leagut>, n\\ you !mow, has four nwmbers in New England, four outside. Old Rintl.ries o-~· Bowling • • • t Continued from Page 4) tain and 3-year man on the team. The spol't of bowling is a recog- nized varsity sport at Union and is financtd by tht> coJiege al- though no van;ity letters are given for participation. The team prac- tices on Sundays at the' Woodlawn Allevs. The league alr<>ady has ·been bowling in competition for a few month:; and its season runs into ApriL Division, Company Vice PreSident surmountable lead. Alth\Ough unless he has made an index of M. Jolm Lubetkin, '60 and General Manager of the De- Lubetkin finished ahead of his 1.600 or over. This means that fense Products Division (later the man, Prebis could not stay with any freshman will have to have Defense Produots Group), and Gill, and, Ruth could not make more C's than D's, and if he --~o.--- . 'b\l't up the difference. This left the w· .an·ts to .get 1 ·nto a h:\Ouse he must. Vice President with respons1 1 1 Y d . R.O.T.C. •• • t d meet squarely up to MacDona! '. do hl's· .acad\'·n.Jc work f1'rst. It for the Industrial Produc s an d t f t ~ . t d who powere hrough or a mos has alsl> been suggested that a Lamp Group (later rede.slgna e ex 'ti g 'ct ry e peel· Jly to the (.Continued from Page 2) d Cl n VI 0 - s a · · \\reshman .be ·1'n ·at le' ast one a:c- · the Industrial Components an · h t ed t · ·• b t d' t h 11 many w o· are no u::~ o see1ng tivity or sport before he is allowed plica le to a s u en w . o enro s Materials Group). Union teams come from behind to pledg-e, in addition to making in the ROTC unit of his choice. Directs ActiVity to win. a 1. 6 i1;1dex. This needs to be He would be able to borrow, from In llis present post, Mr. Belan- Although a most pleasant vic- discussed further, but the intrin- the government up to $ 1 •· 000 a ger directs sales activities for ~- tory the Kings Point meet point- sic value is obvious. year, and not more .than $5;000 proximately 50 General Electnc ed up the Dutchmen's complete 'ii.'o briefly review the proposed during his. college career. As with departments producing equipment lack o.f depth. Fedosky's Mer- Deferred Rushing System: the present .setup, the loan will for electric utilities, industry, men took the first seven of ten i1. Actual rusliing from September ·collect no interest until the indi- d t . 1 de first places, but stm needed to th~ugh January. vidual has finished his education. .tranSi]lortation, an na wna - t •v 1 t fense. Some 150 sales offices and go down to the la.st relay o win. 2. Bidding,. by the preferential. Once the student does comp e e more than 50 service shops Added to other problems is the. systeJP, immedi-ately following his education, he ·would be en- d unexpected loss ·Of Glenn Prebis,' th. e fl•rst semester,. and only to ticed to stay in the services on thro ughout the nation are un er · · 1 tt Th J'k ble' · 1 t' b ·s b \for JUnior e erman. e · 1 ea those freshmen who have reach- a regu ar ac 1ve as1 , ;y - his organization. freestyle sprinter was coming ed a li!l index and are out for giving\ one-fifth ·of the entire loan A native of New BedfQrd, M:'~ along fast but is now off the <J.n activity. • . for each year that tile man re- ac!husetts, Mr. Belanger stu ~~ squad due to doctor's orders. . 3 . Freshmen paying a good .part mains on active duty. The ser- electtical engineering at Franklm · This will give an increasingly of the ·Costs by: vices state that they would be Technical Inst..itute and also at- great role to sophomores Hender- A. Ten dollar assessment at reg- happy if they could hold on to tended the Wharton School of Fi- son, Meyer, and 'Tiecholz, and istration. their officers for a peri\Od of five nance of the University of Penn- leave the sec·ond ·sp1•int spot un- B. Three and ten dollar charges years. Furthermore, after five sylvania. He is a member of th~ filled. As the sophomores get for attending parties and years as an officer, the individual American Society of Naval Eng1- more meets under their 'belts they prom weekends at fraterni- would have more of an opportun- neers, the Soci.ety of Naval Arcbi-. will be of far greater value, and ties. · ity to decide whether or not this tects and Marine Engineers, .the while they are all Improving at C. Paying with tickets for life would be fQr him, and, as American Ordnance Association, a rapid rate chances for victory weekday meals. Davidson points out, if after five and the Newcomen Society in against Wesleyan, Trinity, and 4 Ot years, a sufficient number of men · R.P.I. st1'll look ·Sll'm. · hers: · d d th bl North America. A. The limiting of actual rush- are still not pro uce , e · a.me ---o Although the must victory ing rules. must be placed ·on the careers, Now. to meet an objection from some sources: that it would tend to dcstr·oy the spirit of \bittle Tht·ce\ or other ba~ic rivalries. The Ivy League itself supplies the answer. Nothing has happened to the \Big Three'\ rivalries within the Ivy fold nor to Princrt on's game with Rutgers, most ancient of all intercollegiate contests. nor to other non-league fixtures such as Cornell-Colgate, Penn-La fay- ette, Dartmouth-Holy Cross. So- in our proposed N.E.I.L. there would always be schedule room for such traditionals as Amherst- Massachusetts, Bowdoin·J\iaine. Middlebury- Vermont. M ntebanks Ca st against Kings Point almost gua.r- B. A careflll and complete not the recruitment system. O·U · · an tees a 5-5 record a winning sea- Freshmen Orientation :Pro- Basically, the above is the pro- Team Eligible Casting for the Montebanks son will be quite difficult. gram. posal which President Davidson The te:un i:> .eligible to enter the production of George Bernard C. An interfloor athletic pro- has suggested. At a first glance Colle~iute ~latch games which this Shaw's Androcles and the Lion one of Shaw's masterpieces. of gram. it certainly looks attractive, and vear become a tournament of na- will be held Sunday and Monday, satiric criticism, commenting on In conclusion it should be at least it is a progressive move- tiona! scope. The Eastern por- February 7 and 8, at 7:30 P.M., in the pretensions of empire and on pointed out that if the proposed ment rather than the 'I.'Oid which tion of the :1.1atch will be held at the theatre in Hanna Hall. The the sentimentality of some re- system is adopted the present two has been present for some 14 Bowlmor Recreation in New York play will open the week after. ligious groups. week program is aJbolished. The years. Finally, a look at the potential ~~~~~--~-----~~-~--·~--~ • a, • tl : GAZETTE PRESS t I : tl • PRINTERS •1 ~ .. . '; • • City under the auspices of the Easter, on or about Ap;il 22. Eastern Intercollegiate Bowling Androe>les and the Lion deals Confert-nce. Whether or not the with the ancient tale of the little team will be able to attend de- Greek tailor who is saved from pends on whether or not the team Christian martyrdom in the Col- · can get the college to sponsor I osseum by. his friendshiP. with ~e their tr·ip. , loan who IS to devour hlm. It 1s ~-----------------~--~~ ! LUIGI'S ! : RESTAURANT t : t t t t t Specializing in Italian-American food 1125 BARRETT ST. t Schenectady 01 6-9744 I! Enjoy Our I • t: • ~, 160 LAFAYETTE ST. : t 'I \Where Chapel meets Lafayette\ 1 l Sizzling Steaks and Chops i I I O% Discount to Union Men ' I ! ·---------------------- ~ 332 State Street t FRanklin 2-0501 ~ . --- . : ~----------··-·---·---~ ------------- Did you know that beer had a religious conno- tation in Babylonian days? And that women brewers were actually temple priestesses, re- serving some types of beer for certain temple ceremonies? Did you know that the ancient Egyptians' abhorrence of drunkenness inspired the brewing of beer as a beverage of modera- tion? Did you know that Rameses III es- teemed beer so highly that he sacrificed 30,000 gallons a year to the gods? Did you know •.. the best way to satisfy your beer thirst quick is to knock, knock for Knick! Smooth and frosty-dry, that's why-! Knicker- bocker-the quenchingest taste in town! NEW YORK'S FAMOUS BEER JACOD RUPPERT, N.y. C:o What happens to your care~r ... after you join Western Electric? You'll quickly Rnd the answer is growth. The signs of progress-and opportunity-are clear, whether your chosen aeid is engineering or other professional work. There is the day-to- day challenge that keeps you on your toes. There are new products, new areas for l!Ctivity, continuing growth, and progressive programs of research and development. For here telephone scienceois applied to two major fields-manufacture and supply for the Bell Telephone System,. and the vitally impor- tant areas of defense communications and mis- sile projects. You'll find that Western Electric is career- minded ... and you-minded! Progress is as rapid as your own individual skills permit We esti- mate that 8,000 supervisory jobs will open m the next ten years.,-the majority to be filled by engineers. There will be corresponding oppor- tuhities for career building within research and engineering. Western Electric maintains its own full-time all-.expenses-paid engineering training program. And our tuition refund plan also helps you move ahead in your chosen field. Opportunities exist for. el~ctrical, mechan~cal, :indus- trial, civil and ch~mical engineers, as well ils in tne physical sciences. Far more information get your copy of Consider a Career at Western Electric from your Placement Officer. Or write College Relations, Room 200E, Western Electric Company, 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y. Be sure to arrange for a Western Electric interview when the Bell System team visits your campus. .. Manufacturing locations at Chicago, Ill,; .Kearny, N.J.; Baltimore, Md.; Indianapolis, Ind.; Allentown and Laureldale, Pa.; Burlington, Greensboro and Winston•Salem, N.C.; Buffalo, N; Y;; North Andover; Mass.;Llncolri and omaha, Neb.rKansas Clty, Mo.; Columbus, o. 1 Oklahoma City, Okla.; Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N.J.; Teletype Corp., Chicago, .Ill. and ~lttle RocR, Ark. Also w. E. distribution centers In 32 cltlas, Installation headquarters ln-·ls cities. General headquarters: 195 Broadway, New York 7, N; Y. Ac:c 'Pc VOL. S Alu Gifi Sat: \Alth tributed than la1 fied wii years' t ni Fun Gary ( man. 1 the stt uted, VI ure lag: Accord of the c: collect i Fund bu student sponsibil Colle·ge. A tota this yea top coni Class o.f and the trkkled aud $100 tagewi:oe more art on their In a Student ate Alun made tl regardin philanth 1. The to be me to the JJ ters his tenden<:J increase might h uniform 2. Soli pus, are on their the con of cont d~nt stu 3. Stu< at all ., their n: matter by the t Drive h The < of the f low \Bi: han, R'O Mo!'riso: of WRl tor of t Body PI General Gross. A C'or 1959 dri 1959 Olru Sen Jun Sop· Frei Stw 195! Cla! ·Sen Jun Sop Fre Stw Ski() Leaj Castii est proi Lion, t< and Tu Accoi'di Win gat was the yet DCC' Asth> keshuiH as And befrieni tive rol as Caes Ferro vi the am The 1 week 1 about .! And:rc with th Greek Christia IPssimrn the Lio It is. 01 of sat:!: on the on the Uglou~

1'960 able fln- ·one not a, gpod fresh- long, . Fin- whoie fresh- dif- ber col- '60 2) enrolls choice. from a $5;000 with will indi- omplete be en- on \for- loan re- ser- be on to of five five dividual not this and, as five men e blame careers, the pro- t glance ive, and move- which 14 its eering plan field. ~indus­ in the ur copy your Room New Electric <. mbus, o., W. E, 7, N; Y. Accidental War 'Page 3 VOL. 89, No. 14. . . . . I .. . .. Student Body 1958 Drive Class Seni\Or Junior SopP.omore Freshman 767 71.6% of 1070 %class giving 54% 74% 71% 93.1% Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENE'CTIADY. N. Y., 'FRJIJ).'AY, FEBR 1 U'A'RY 12, 1'960 Doyle ·Situation Page 5 PRICE TEN CENTS InN ew Rushing Query \' By Steven Eisen The Student Council in its meeting· of Tuesday, Feb- ruary 9, voted unanimously to .again form a co1~tte.e to work jointly with the HPC, m an attempt to wvestl- . <S-]•gate the rather bogged down · rushing controversy. The 1 proposal was presented by 1 Steven Albert, wlw moved I that, \a committee be form- ed to act jointly vvi tl1 the I HPC to further investigate and report on problems in- herent in the present rush- ing system.\ Opp·oses Deferred Rushing

l 1 1llJii:·<ltt:d F'Lhlay:s dut.Jng Uw <4''~''D! )\t:tr Ly t!,t... Stt.d'o_Lat l~•nl, nf l''tll~ HI l'nlh·~·t~. ~. ·ht·• u•f\l :td~:. X. Y. ~atiuna..l Ad\.t'ltJ!-.IrJg' H••Jl· 1 c-~en tati\'f': :--=auunal .\ ,ln.·t·t ~~­ itt~ St·II.llt', lt1•·. Cidlt·~t· l'ut1. l·..::hflr~ Hl'Pl\t'~tmtatiye t~O :\1ad- I:-;nH ;\ \'t•, ::\'. Y l\' Editorial Office, \\'ashbu1·n Jlall, t ·,,,l<~lt C'ul:.._..gc, Pul'l'\ dliull C.·Jf • fwe. Tht• 1 iazette I )re::--:-~. 3'H ~tate St. F:nten•tt in th~ ~Ph~?· llt~t·ta.dv l •ust Offil'e as Secoud l 'i:bs ·.:\1all ).l'a.tter. ~uhstTiption 10, a n>tlY. $::: a yL·,,r dt._·liH:rcd :lii\WhPre in tht• l'n,teil Stat~;~s SE:>iiOH BOAitll l'ETEI\ J. !'iTJ-:1:-.:<i[,.\SS ·co ...... l•l li-<H, ... . . . .. l::uitUJ·-ln·Chief 1~\:-.:L'E .\1. !1.\ltASll, ·co .......... 1 •l ,;.~,,;,, ........ Busanuss ~lanRger 1'.\I'J, I. \\.,.!.I.~! A:-.: .• ,~ ......... 1·::-; 3-tJo~l ......... ~lamq;mt,; Eultur .1 1 1}·:L hl'l'EI::0:~1ITII \CO ......... !:X:~~~~~;~ ......... \~~otlate l--:dltor l~<,HFHT J t~AL\'1:--; \fll •......... I•.I tl~:!•H\' ............•. :-.:e\\'S\ Edltur Ll,:S!.IE ll. :.\!AHHL'S ·~; ......... Ill G-991>9 ............. StJOrts ]:o;c.litor Jt':>iW!t HOARD ~lark Krtle\'lllnn ·r.o . . ....................... Photograph)' Edlror John \\ahllg '111J .... •• . ............................... Art Ed1tor I! any J:ut.uu ·a;l ........... Local Ac!Hrtbang ~lanager ~t·mrt ( .. L,hl'll 't)l ~ataut1al .-\d,~:rtl~illf,;' :\1ann~er 1;t>ra!d t:nd{ 't;~ . . . . . . . . . Af'ti\'•ties Jo}ditor H.onaltJ E. l)rusrn 'ti~ ...•.....................•• As:-ngtant :'\,;e\\.\S t-;u\tur. .\Jll,ut ll. Fih.:dflt.tll l~ ............................ L'u-Fcatui~::i ~Llitt.'r L:t\\ l\.'11• e ll I..t~lltt\ltl!l..'l' 'L~ ......................... l'o·1•'t!:ttures l 0 ~d1t~r I,uuis A belove '6: .................................. Circulation !\lanager UEI'OitTEH STAFF I )ou~Ja~\' .\llt·TL .l,dlll ll:tl't\ .\'11• hal'l HnJsot<.•lll. Thoma~. I Jalltll't.>\\, :'\h~l\'1 1l 1:1•:-lt\'lt. :--t~·\t'IL 1:1-t'll, l'.t d c;·.tllald, l:ul•t.:ll (;p)tlt·ldo(.•!g, l'ho.uh·~ t:uhi- ~: •• 1.. _',],.J .. t<l ,;, ... : •.... :\l.t,::. Jl.t:.tlt.'.li.L: •. -'··.th lfli. ... hl.·•llj(/., Ktli JI ... t. l'.l·,! .l.l·•t!·. J:,:;~ 1-.:.:1,-l.t:t, ··:'\,!! J<l·nltll.tll, Kt·!lltl•'ll 1.::··~-o ... 't-! l'f'k•!· l.t·'· ,,•J:'. \1~~~1·•·\\ l.qt·\\t·l:'-1•· 11 .lul•n !.11lwtl\:1t: l.h·~·d :'\.\Ul\lt ),, ,lot> J•a- J,,II\1>1, l!alph ]'ala~~·k Ht•\t>tl J'n!Jnar·, ,;It·nn l'nhu~. ~tr.>\'P Huyrnulltl, l\ht•Hd••Jt: l~uth:-.h·111, )'ll•it,td ~~I!Ub, Pa111d :-\th\\arz, Allied :-'ullllilt.:l, J',·:o:J• ,...,,,~\-IlLli Ji,l\ld '1'1\il-tPII, l'.!l} \'.dt>Jilillt' lll'SI'il·:~sST.\I·T ' l't\tt>t' .\nll'f•l<.:.t>, :--:tP\\t'll F:L• to1·, .\I l:all:lnd, .\rthur <1ellt>lt, TholllHS llal.l, \ t<ltll ,\'latwl,, l't·!l·i :--idJ\\i:lllt:.. l•a\ld ~ha.\\, I:th\illc.l ~l~h.,ot. HuLt.:t.t :-- ~~ It II It Ruth the Resuscitator ThP ~turlt'nt C'nnncil's dPcision to form a joint com- mittee with the Ilou~e Presidents' Council in an attempt to fm·thel' investigate the hackneyed rushing situation still being perpetrated upon the college, may well pro-ve to IJe the necessary initial step toward evoking the much needed t·evision of the current rushing rules. For in choos- ing to establish the committee as a joint undertaking with the HPC, the Council has solved (temporarily, at least) the jurisdic-tional squabbles that have repeatedly plaguEd the two groups in their attempts to find a solution to tile t·ushing woes at Union. . It has become apparent to the perceptive observer of the t\Ushing controversy, that the student body, which was practically dormant in the fall semester, has, in tile • p'ast few weeks, expressed a renewed interest in the pro-b- lem. With this fact in mind, the desire of the HPC Rush- ing Rules Committee to discontinue discussion at this time (the inference that must be drawn from the report and addendum they submitted to the Student Council) would be most unwise. Apparently President Ruth w.as cognizant of this fad \vhen he prevented allowing tbe issue to be dropped at the Council's last meeting. We take this opportunity to praise the intelligent w:tiun taken by :\Jr. Ruth and his Council, and we exte11d a dmllenge to the student body to face the weighty rush- ing dilenuum; shackling the college and perhaps even legislate a suital.Jie solution. A Noble Experiment One of the most ambitious programs of prom week- . end entertaimuent ever considered at Union was describ-ed before the Student Council at its most recent meeting tOn Tuesday last. Presented by Peter Houlihan on behalf of the Junior Class Spring Prom Committee, the budget in- ·~·olves an anticipated expenditure of $3,789. When the Houlihan -proposal was first submitted to the Student Council on November 20, the Concordiensis reported that the ensuing discussion showed the dissatis- faction of many Council members regarding the feasibility of what was tenned\such an extravagant plan.\ In spite of the Council's amwehensions, the Junior Class bid was accepted. But the most encouraging surprise came tOn February ii, when the traditionally staid and conservative Sturlent Tax Committee approved the Houlihan budget. The most elementary mathematical computations quickly reveal that on the basis of a $3,789 expenditure and a $7.2G bid, ap]>roximately !)20 couples must atte:nd the prom if it is to hut break even. It is worth noting that this would constitute a new attendance record for a campus social event. Like!,\· reason for the juniors' grandiose plan was the general sentiment in last ~·ears' Student Council that social weekends shou.ld 1·eflect a service effort to the ctOl- lege community on the part of the sponsol'ing group rather than a mere lmsiness enterprise. A precedent has been implied and it appears likely that emphasis in the future will be toward providing as spectacular a show as possible fol' the student body. Laudable as this is felt to be, the ramifications of a possible failure should be plac.ed squarely before the student body. Since financial loss on a social weekend is made up by the Student Tax Fund (with the consequent and equal reduction in the amount available for the conduct of stu- dent activities), the Student Body underwrites the cost of its ente1·tainment either through hid sales or deficit fi- nancing from the Tc\X Fund. It is hardly necessary to state that financial failure would result in such a severe loss of prestige that the sponsoring group would encoan- ter difficulty should they ever feel moved to bid for a future event. More significant, failure might under- standably involve seve1·e antagonism by the Tax Commit- tee toward futute ''big name\ weekends, regardless of sponsoring group. Clearly, the Junior Prom of 1960 will constitute an experiment in the trend of future weekend entertainme-nt at Union. Specifically, attendance of near capacity if not reeord breaking proportions is necessm·v to avoid failure. In deciding whether to support the Houlihan Prom t:he student bod~· is reminded that they are casting their votes for the state of social weekend entertainment f.<>r many bacchanalias to come. •• A fraternity house adds social prestige by provid- ing- a place to entertain parents, dates, and g-uests.\ -HPC Addendum to Rushing Report Soft Covers Score By Alfred Sonune1· There is a veritable \revolution\ that it would be more worthwhile going on in the field of books, ac- to do a\:ay with the texts in .many cording to Professor Larrabee, courses, and buy about 10 paper- and <J.Ur bookstore is right in backs for the same cost. For this front. The big switch is to paper- reason he devised a soft covered !}acks. library list fi>r SS 50. Glass Given Boot Professor Larrabee explained Anyona who has stepped into that this change occurred due to the Campus store in the last Week \continued needling for paper- is sure to have noticed the \new backs\. 'Dhe biggest adversary to look\. 'There are rows upon rows this change was, of ·C(}urse, the of soft covered books, other than hard covered trade. Now, however, those on the required reading most books eventually appear in lists. It is a \new intellectualism\ soft covered editions, a..nd the hard or \renaissance\ that has affected covered industry no longer con- our campus. The old display of trois an extensive monopoly. \official\ glassware, has given Projoot .Still Embryone way- to a beautiful di&}llay of This is at )?resent however only books. in the experimental stage, and TJ:l.1s sudden \discovery\ of pa- needs worthwlh!le results to be- pe~backs is neither new, nor con- come an established practice. It fined to the Union College cam- has worked for many, years a:t the pus. Recently both the New York Columbia Bookstore With success. Times and the Herald Tribune Mrs. Hilda Hill feels that \the came out With special sectiJ>ns _boys just ·don't notice'' the vast devoted to just this subject. The amount that is around the store, Tribune not only .praised the and \if they would only look mo·re emergence of an inexpensive closely\ they would find books means of stocking a private Ii- they never •knew were carried. !}rary, but also included actual Professor Larrrubee r-emarked compilations ranging from ten to that the practice of Hamilt()n's thirty dollars, with which to form Librarian, of selling paperbacks a nucleus for just 'such a library. on the side, in the library, is Our own faculty was a true opre- \heresy\, but that it illustrates cursor, for paperback library lists the change coming about. have long been compiled' •by both The removal of stemware frOI!ll the English and History depart- one entire wall of the campus ments. store, .has really earned Mrs. Hill's Use As Texts Praised little establiShment the title of Many professors not am()ng the \The Bookstore\. In what will early agitators for- the present probably be his most inspiring situation, certainly praise it. Pro- words, ProfessOT Larrabee said: fessor Larrabe·e shares the opin- \Clear out -another wall-Don't ion of many of .his colleagues, stop now''!! A. Cinema Review \Three Strange Loves\ By Peter Sussman The Seotia Art Theatre is pres- ently featuring the baffling and unusual story of Three Str-ange Loves, starring Eva Henning and Birger Malmsten. This is another in the line of motion pictures cre- ated by the talented Swedish wJ•iter and diredor. Ingmar Berg- man. The latter, most famous in the United StAtes for the wide- ly publicized motion picture Wild StlThwberries shows in this film his keen intellect and creative genius that is rapidly winning him acclaim. Three Strange Loves is con- cerned with three women, associ- ated in their younger yea):\s as ballet dancers. Each renounced or were forced to abandon the life which she had plapned. Hav- ing dedicated their lives to the ballet, they find themselves in an unpr<>tecting void, ()llCe the moth- erly- influence is gone. Each, in attempting to close the gaps of emptiness, comes to grips with conflicting emotions, which re- sult in the three strange loves. Three of the most tmlUiual, al- though necessarily brief character studies, are presented through the liberal use of flashbacks and fade- opts. By the use of this mise en scene the conflict in the charac- ters' minds are represented with- out the customary excitin:g pl()t. Bel'gman presents his ·gloomy story through the actions and thoughts of Rut, one of the three aiorementioned women. A victim of d-rink and at the mercy of her strange emotions, Rut fights to over-come the terrifying results of a love affair. The otheT two women are even more tragic. Their lives remain empty, without permanent benefit of a normal love. Their releases are sure to amaze, shock, and confound the viewer. To be sure, one of the most positive qualities of this film is the technical proficiency with which it was produced. Here Bergman shows his mechanical a.Spect of his genius. The neces- sity of reading English subtitles, a great hindrance to the emo- tional impact of other forei•gn films, is no bother in Tlhree Secret Loves. Every sound, cam- era angie, and motion has as its purpose the heightening of the desired emotional effect. Thr-ee Stra.~ge Loves, like so many of Bergman's movies, is baqJ.i.ng. To unravel the intima- cies of this challenging film should ,be a valuable pastime for the viewer. Ingmar Bergman's work of art requires a delving mind to fathom the ·gTeat depths, yet paradoxical heights, that the film achieves. Scouts Meet· A day-long open house program, designed to acquaint Boy ScoutB with higher education, will 'be staged at Union College on Satur- day, February 13th, by Union's chapter of Al-pha Phi IQ:rxiega, na- tional collegiate Boy Scout frater- nity. Plans for the event were an- nounced today by Frederick E. Firman, junioJ• classman from Mohawk, New York, chapter presi- dent. Undertaken this year on an ex- perimental· basis, the open house program will include talks by members of Union's; staff and .fac- ulty, a tour of the ca;rr)j!}us, visits to scien9e and engineering la.boi'\ atories, and attendance <~ot the Union-NYU swimming .meet. This is a purely local effort of Union's chapter of the fraternity, being basically a. pledge project. Frid'~y. February 12. i960 -In Old Chapel Old Masters ,Exhibit Ry Eli B. Enzer A series of drawings by- \old been collected and shown. The master\ is currently on exhibit reason for placing so much vari- in the :Union College .arl •gallery ely in su small a ~how as can be in Old Chapel. The show is on held' in Old 'Chapel -seems to nave loan n·om the Lyman .Allyn Mu- been Mr. Nowack's laudable de- seum in New London,.Connecticut sire to giv-e the Union ~tuclent a through the courtesy of the Mu- generalized Jntroduction to draw- seum's director, Mr. Edgar deN. ing as art. The show develo<PS be- Mayhew. The exhibit has been yonp. the point of being a brief art carefully selected by .Professor history course. / / Wayne Kenyen Nowack of the .Mr. Nowack has taken. great Union College Art Department, but paJns to explain the historical. as unfortunately, in this w-riter's well as the aesthetic aspects o.f opinion, it can not be ca:lled an the draWings, and these small ' art exhibit. footnotes to the works will prove Show Lacks H~>mogencity enl~ghtening to the casual and the devoted observer alike. Drawing is a delicate art which finds much of its significance in subtlety. As the introductory placard notes, \If one prefers the still small voi<:e in art shows, this is the kind of show which demands a little si- lence. a little time, and perhaps a very lig-ht step.\ N ote.d \\~1)rks Citro SeYeral of the works shown are fine examples of the art ·Of draughtsmanship, and in S()me, the works are in excess of being mere \exercises\. The trouble lies in the show as a whole, for there are too many different types of work on display for so small an exhibit. As the introductory plac- ard at the Gallery~s entrance ex- plains, \(This is) a good survey A half dozen or so of the ex- show\ for it includes \quick short hibited works deserve special note. hand .sketches, seed ideas for big- The histre wash drawing by II ger works, pose studie.s, illustra- Tintoretto (1519·1594) w.hich was Uons; fantasies, doodles, carefully done as a preliminary work for lined plans, landsca;pes, .portraits, the painting of \Peter Denying cartoons, and architectural and Christ\ is especially fine from an theatrical renderings.\ The result aesthetic and historical point of is a cong!Gmeration of approac.hea view. The work reflects the Vene· which are never develo-ped a.s they tian Baroque flavor which Was might have been if just pose .stud- the avant ga.rde movement of the ies, or fantasies, or whatever had (Continued on Page 6) ~--------------------------& n - • I S. HUROK presents I I I I ERROLL I I I : -GARNER : D . FIANIST·COMPOSER I 1 wi!ft BaS$ & Percussion Acconipaniiff!lit : 1 I I I I I I Ba!clwtn I I g : ALBANY ARMORY : I FRIDAY, MARCH 4 8:30P.M. I : 'Sale Van Curler's ·schenectady : I Tickets: $2.00, $2.50, $3.00 I I I ~-------------------------~ FERRO'S REST AU RANT Specializing in ltalian .. American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking 0·16-9554 I I 15 Ba.rrett St. Scotia NOW Thru. Wed. Nightly at Art Theatre 7 and 8:45 ANOTHER GREAT Fl LM BY UNION PHARMACY INGMAR BERG-MAN I THIRST FOR ,LOVE •• . t.ONEL y FOR MAN'S TOUCH! \Drugs and Fountain Service .. Leo Katzman, B.Sc, 600 Union St. FR 4~3605 1:---:;~~~~~:-i,l 529 Liberty St. ! t j Do If Yourself Laundry I Washers- 25c a week . t (Holds up 'to 10 lbs.) : ~arge Dryefs - I Oc for I 0 min. : (Holds up to 40 lbs.) : Op~n 24 hours a day - I t 7 days a week • ~------~------------~' DIAMANTE Restaurant and Bar Visit Our New Dining Room A Place +o ·G.o +o Relax Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott St. Open Daily 10 to 3 AM. Sundays 5 to 3 A.M. ~II'.· Tit major an be a ca:1 politlcal t In the Nation m a politic! versity o1 cellent ·~ entitled ' feasor Sir !em of a• It 1:;; to t to dired We ar too farri tions of arrive at on the R nucl!)ar 1 !ems are perhaps f OUI' ShOI .after awl this eith cynicism, problems the lay i the othe con.siderE accident! with nu~ Is i-t . .t to ~mE destwye1 cident? surprise basis of formatio lion and either ir triggerin structior tional a.J Tlvo l face ea< of ·mu.tu, may say Mr. EisE of peace a nasty Gtrl.lctiOI Mr. K'; surely b United prise nu the Sov tions? S• Dooki: point oJ sparsely andmis of the l gress.Jve surprise phasis • the bacl \retalia: serves ' first op• to ibelie operate tory\ in arly ,~t thdnkin bors g; States •: study, J Strateg eludes image strateg; air blo destruc Q-ran· have sE suming ern-ini1 gran tin side of are the trigger Prof1 \the st prise ! could tary V. fo1.1r h• ed by stra;teg sess-irig ering : fifteen there i ing ti.il decisio :BE LIZ at Son ··we gel'!

I' •• j I'· ! L.\\ •l ,' • •• : :t .. t>.:t .. : .. Ll l •~l't ,._ \Y.l:-1\lt•,ru H.tll, 'j,. fl t •• , • .... i- ., .. ,,. tl.i•'ll •• :·- I. o o 0 <I 1' !'t~. I; :\/1'\;• I .. t' ....... :: ; I '· '\ ,\,; I ; \' ' ' ' ' ,, J:, ;-:_. ·'·· ,....:.t l:·.t····· .\ I'• :!··· ~·Itt'· '. _, . \ •I'' 1••· :·t :' J-'t•\'l tJ·:H.•· a~ :-\l't~ll:td \ ., .'\ y t. ,. , ___ :\1.!li ;\l.lt!•r. ~ul·s·ript!Dil :I .\ I .. ,.,- ~:.: .l \' 'I d· :1\' !• 'l 1.:1 ', ,\ t., .• t' Ill th·· I·,,. t·· 1 ~t:tt··~ SE'\llllt BO\llll i'Lli.L .J ..... '\L.I:'\•:J.\;-' . ...:. ,·,1:_ l•l ·--.! l• • r:. t: 11 •r~ 1 n-L'hief l :•1:-:tL•·!-~ ).lalla~tor :vl,tiLat-::tJh Etiltur .\ ... ~tt. ;a1t> Fdittn :'\.'.-.,, H Edt tor ~t·urts Edttor I._\ :\I. I' .\•1 l: \\I:_\;-; 1.1 ' I ,· ,.· .. l'.\l[.r.l. '.\••l.J~\·J.\'\, •II I :'\ .· 11;:1i I_\. , :·.,:.: .1• IJ !. I\ l'i·'l •::---:''! .'H i·:tii,J'i·;'l' ,I •;:d,\'1'\ '•~1 l.I·>I..II: :•. :-I.\l:I·:t·,; ,;~ I •1 .: ::·•1, . . I I I I: -~I~~-~. ~I \l:u~ 1<1 :.:t· .\tt ·,,. J. •l.rJ \\ .L:t• 1..:; lLt :;.· i·:·.l, !. · •. : --··.t:t '. ;, ' •.. , ,:, ' j ,. :: ·, !: .. , :tld L I •;lj ... :•, \:· 1,: J I 1 .. ,, .J:· •. tr. ' :·I J.. • I.•, .·~ .\ t , ,·. - I • I; '1 1.· I •' Jl '\IOlt B<>\IUl . I'IIP~•·~r:q·h~· Edirot . . . . . . . .\t t Ed1tu1 .. 1 ••... LI .\d-..l: tl:-lLg .:\-laHag£1'1 ~'-'~·····.ti Al·•l! .... tl~ :\l.tii<U..:t·r .\· t \ t•t·~ Editor ••• \~ ..... t ... !:Lttt .'-••\\ s L•illnr t'u r,•,L{.,In.; l:tlttUI • '••-1 ._ t t :t•·\ I \lltur t 'tt • ul.t: ····: ,:\'ltlll~t;.;t·r H I' I' <1 H I I II .., I \ I I· 1: ., •• 1 I '1' I . .r'. '·\' I ' I' 'I 1 I \\. :\·I' I' 1! I • : • • , .• ' , , 1 ;...: • t . :: .1.1 j, - t ; • o ~ • I ', :•. 1-J·. ,,, :. i·l·· . I' . j\' '' . • l i '' ~ - ' I I •• I • I. , •L • I . • •1 ,.1' · ;, ,1 .. , l':t ..... :. I ' I .. ,l.! ';[ •. ,,, 1·': ···H--. ~!···I I ::t;. 11\\t:•l •i ! :\' 1.•11 jl 1:1 1; ~. t'l o\ ,\II, .\i il t ·I _....,.llll!lt-1, .t 1' l' I: 1 \ 'I, \ 1 J. Hl '1\1.,_.., \'' \i'l' J'·· '\J t; l 1!1•, \t!h II l~o1!t !t, t•:lt>li!,l..; 1-l:tll. l '•I \ ld ·''I I,,' j II'\,\' II ;--- •. ! .... ,. I ~ .. 1 •t It Ruth the Resuscitator T:,,. ~1:t,lt·n1 ( ·,·t:rH·iJ'.; dl'\i\iPll to fnnn a jnint com- lliilll'l' \\itli tilt• lluu~t· l're:.;it!Pnt,.;' l'olllieil in an attempt t<> t'u rtiil'l' ill\ t·:-tig·all' tiiL' ltal'klli:~·L·d nt,;hing situation ..:till ilf'ill:.'.. JlL't·petralt•d U(lllll lht• t·Dlleg-c•. may well ]ll'O\'e tu J,,. tile llL'L''\\ary initial o:tPp to\ral'(\ t'Yokillg- the mut·h llt·v•kd l'l'\·i,i<>n 11t' tlit· L'll.l'l'L'llt ru:-diillg- l'Ule,;. For in c-hoos- i:Ig- t<> t':->\:thli.\h tIlL' t'Pllllllit tel' a,; a joint unde1·taking: with tilL' HI'(·. till· t'nurwil II:ts O:<ll\'l'd (tt>mporaril,\·. at least) tlw juri,.,jj,t innnl :-:qual>ldt•,.; that han• n•pt•atl•dly pl<lguec! tilt• l\\11 gt't>lli'\ in tiiL·it· altt•lllpt,; to find <l solution to the I'll.\ilillg· 1\<>t'.' at l'niun. It I 1a:-; hl', ol1ll' apparent to the percept in' ob:>erver of t;:L' ru.' \ling n>lltl'<>\'L'I'.'Y. tl1at the student hod\·, whic·lt \Vas prad icall,\· dt~l'tllant in t iie fall l\L'IllL'>'tl•r I! a:;, in the p·ast (l'l\' \Wt·ks. expl't',;.\t'd a l'l'lll'\red intere,.;t in the ]H'ob- J,•nL \\'itlt tlli,.; fad ill mind. tlw desire of the IIPC Hush- i!Jg l~ute.~ l ·,>llllllit\.t·~· t1> di,:L·ontinue di,.;t:u:>:-;iun at this tiliit' (ti.l' iut't.·l'l'lltl' that lllll\t l>e dt·mvn from the l'eport and ad, hondutn ttie.v ,.;uhmit ted to the ~tudent l'uuneil) wnuld i w mn.\'t unwi~P. Appal'l•ntl~· Presirlent Ruth was L\l!:nizant ul' t :1i~ fad when he JH'e\·ented allowing the issLIL' to ht• dropped al t lie Comll'il's last meeting. \\,• take this opportunitr to praise the intelligent al'li~>n tak~·n \,,. :\lr. l~utli and his l'ounl'il, and we extend ,,,·\iallt'llg·~· tn ·lilt• :-tlldt•nt IJod,\· to face the weighty rush- ing: <Lilt'IIIlll<t=' ,:l!adding the <:ollege and perhaps even lt·gi,];tlt• a .-uit;,hlt• ,;olutilllL A Noble Experiment « >nt.• uf till' mu,,t ambitious programs of ]>l'um week- t.•lld L'lilt.-I'tailllllvllt l'\ l'f' cuno:idered at L'nion wu:s desc:ril.Jed lwt'ol'L' the ~tudent t 'uunl'il at its most J'el'ent meeting on Tut·~da\.· last. l'n•sPntl•d lw Peter Houlihan on behalf of the .luttint· l'la,;s ~Jwing l'{·um Committee, the budget in- yoh'es nn antil'ipatt•d expenditure of S3.78fl. \YlH·n t hl' I lt>ul ihan Jll'DJHl>'al wa:-; first submitted to tlie ~tnd1·nt C'oti!Kil 1111 ::\oypmher :211, the ('oncordiensis l'l'JHII'll'd t I! at t lw cn\u ing; discussion sho\rPct the dissatis- f:w tio n of many Clll!lll'i I 1nem he1·s regarding t hP f easibi!ity of \\'hat v...-a,.; tcrme<l\ an extraYagant plan.\ In spite of til(! Cowwil's :tpprehensions, the .Junior Cla,.;s bid \\'US a11 t•ptt•< I. But t lit.' most t'llcouJ·ag-in,l!,' sur]ll'ise eamP on Ft>hrww~· .\ wht>n the traclitionall~· staid and eonsen·atiYe ~t udt>nl Ta-. l'ommitlt'l' app1·on•d the Iloul ihan budget. Ti;t> nwst dt'lllPntary mathematieal computations qtlil'kl,\· l'P\\t•al that on till' l1a,;is of a S~.iR!l expenditure and a S7. :.!:i I >id. appruxi mat d~.· :i:.!ll <·<•u pies m u;-;t att@nd tht> prom if it i,; \11 ln1t lli·Pak l'l't•n. It is worth noting that this \\'oulcl t·nnst it ute a npw :tttendant·e record for a l'<tlllj)tl.' ~ocialP\'l'll t. r jkp]y n•a,;on fol' the ,iuninr;;' g-ra.nrliose plan was thP g't'lll'l'al l\t>lltinll'nt in l:tst ~·pm·,;' Studrnt Counc·il that ,.;o('ial 1\.'l'PkPlHl..; ,;lwuld l'eflpt·t a :'.l'l'\·ice effort to the col- lt•g:p <·omnmnit,\· un the part of tiiP ,;ponsoring g1·oup rather than a lll!'l'l' hu,.;im•ss t>ntet·prise. A p1·eeectent has llL't'll in tpl il'd and it appl•ar,.; lil\ely that emphasis in the fntur<' will he toward pro\·iding as spedaeular a shovv as po~sil 1lc• for t h l' student bor!,\·. Laudable as this is felt to hP, the mmi fil'at ions of a possible failure shoulcl be placed squanly hl'l'orc the :.;turlent bod,\·. Sint'P financial los,.; on a social weekend is made up h,\· the Sl u<it'nt Tax Fund (with the consequent and equal rPdudi< >ll in t lw amoJillt availal>le for the c-onduct of stu- dc>nt ~ll'ii\'iliPs), till' Student nody undl'l'\\'l'ites the rost of its Pnlcrtainnwnt PitlH·r through hid sale:-; or deficit fi- mtnl'i llg\ from tlw Tax Fund. It is hard!,\· necessa1·y to ,.;!alP lllal financial failure would result in such a severe los,; of jll'estige that the sponso1·ing g-roup \'v'ottlcl encoun- tPr diffil'ult,v should they t>\'er feel mowrl to bid for a futurt• e\·PnL :\lore signifir·ant. failUI'<' might under- stanrbtl>·l.r ilwoln> s(l\'N'e antagonism by the Tax Commit- lt't' 1 ow a!'<] ftt t nre \l name\ weekends, 1·egardless of ... pon,.;or ing group. < 'lP~trly, tlw Junior Prom of 1 !Hio will l'Onstitute an t'XIH'l'iment in the trend of future WPPl\enrl entertainment at T'nion. SJ~P!'ifienll,\·, a.ttendance of 1war capacity, if not l'Pt·orrl lll'P:tl\ mg Jll'opoi'tlons is nrcrssar.\· to a\'oid failure. In dt>('idinl.!· wl1t>lher to support thl' Ilouli!Jan Prom the ;;tudPnt body is reminded_ that they are casting their votes for the .~tate of socml wccl<end entertainment for many h.mchanalias to come. c'Ci? :?. Friday, February 12, 1960 ln Old Chapel Old M·asters 'Exhibit By Eli B. Emwr A Sl'ric·s of drawings by \old been collc·cted anti shm\·n. The mastt·t·\ i\ currt•ntlv on ex hihit n·ason for· plac·ing so much vari- itt the 'C'niun Culkg~ at l ga.llex·y I'IY in so Slllall a ,.hoi\ \ can be in Old Chapt>l. ThP shol\' i.s on h,:J<i in Old Chapd Bt·••ms t\ l)ave lonn from thP Lyman All:yn Mu- b. <'n :\fr. Nowack's laud:vhl<> de- st·um in NPW London, Connecticut sn·c• to gh:<' the lTnion st utlL'nt a \!Hough the C'ourtesy 0f the Mu- gt•neraliz<•tl introcJ.ucticm to draw- SPU!ll's dirl-'ctor, Mr. Edgar dPN. ing as art. Tlw show devr>lops be- IV!:nyhrw. ThP exhibit ha.s been yond the point of twing a brief art can•fully selected by P1·ofess<lr hi~:>ton c0urse. \\'avrw Kenvun Nowack of the Mt·. · No·wack has trr.ken great l:ni~n Colleg~ Art Dc•partmcnt, but p:Lins to explain the historical as unfortunately, in this \\niter's weH as the m•~:>thetic aspects of opinion, it can not be called an the drawings, and these small ar·t exhibit. footnotPs to the wo1·ks will pt'OVC Show I.a<'li~ UomogPtlrity SL•veral of \'he \\'Ot ks shown at f' flnt• <'Xampl1•s of th<• art of <haughtsman~hip, and in som<', tlw works nrc in L'XCeBs O·f being m,•rt' \c'X<'rciscs\. ThP trouble lies in tho show as a whole•, for there ar.• too many diff< .. rcnt t:ypes of work on disp·lay for so sn1all an PXhibit. Al:l thf' introductol'Y plac· arc! at thl' Gallery's entra.nce ex- plains, \!This isl a gooti survcy show\ for it includes \quick short <·llli!4'htening- to the easua'l and the clrvotetl ohtH'rVPl' alilw. Drawing is a tl•·li~ate nit which finds much of it:< significance in subtlety. As th<' introdul'toty plarartl no(PS, \If Oil<' fHl'fl'l'R thf' stiH small voicP in m·t show!\. this is the kind of shm,· whi<'h cl<•mands a little si- h•nrr>. a. littiP time>. anti pPrhaps a \'t•t·y light Stl-'p·,\ :>;ott•c[ V\·,qr){~ CitPd \A fraternity house adds social prestig·e by pt·ovid- ing· a plate to entertain parents, dates, and guests.\ -HPC Addendum to Rushing· Retlolt Soft Covers Score By AlfrPd S01runer _ hand sl{etches, seed ideas fot· big- ger \\'orks, •pose studies, illustra- tions, fantasies, doodles, carefully lined plans, landscapes, portraits, eartoons, and architectural and A half dozen ot· so of the ex- hibited wor·ks dcsc>rve special note. The uistrP wash drawing by 11 T 1 ntorl'ttu 11519-1594) wh·ich was done as 'L preliminary work for the p.linling uf \Pdcr Denying Christ\ is especially fine from an aesthc•tic and historical point of vi<'W. Th<• work ref!eds the Vene- tian Baroque flavor which vras th<' avant ganle movement of the ThL·r~ is a veritable \revolution\ that it would be more worthwhile going on in the field of books, ac- tc. <lo a11·ay with the texts in many cui Lilllg to Pwfessor Larrabee, courses, and buy about 10 txwcr- and uut· bookstore is right in backs for the same cost. For this front. The big switch is to paper- reason he devised a soft covered l>:.tc ks. library list for SS 50 . Glass Gh·pn Boot Professor Larrabee explained Anyone who has stepped into that this change occurred due to thl' Campus sto1·c in the last week \continued needling for paper- is sure to have noticed the \new backs\. Th·e biggest adversary to look\. There are rows upon. rows thi.s change was, of course, the of .soft co\•ered .books, other than hard covered trade. Now, however, those on the required reading most ·books eventually appear in !Jsts. It is a \new intellectualism\ soft covered ed'itions, and the hard or \renaissance\ that has affected covered industry no longer con- out· campus. The old display of trois an extensive monopoly. \official\ glassware, has given Project Still Embryone way to a beautiful display of This is at present however only hool{S. in the experimental stage, and This sudden \discovery\ of pa- needs worthw.hHe results to be~ PPI'hacks is neither new, nor con- come an established practice. It fint'll to the Union College cam- has worked for many years at the pus. Rccf'ntly both the New York Columbia Bookstore \Vith success. Timf's and the Herald TribWie Mrs. Hilda Hill feels that \the came out \ith .special sections boys just don't notice\ the vast dPvoted to just this subject. The amount that is around the store, Tl'ihunP not only praised the and \if they would only look mo-re ('mergence of an inexpensive closely\ they would find books mPans of sto·cking a private li- they never knmv were carri.ed. brary, but also included actual Professor Larrabee rema1:ked compilations ranging from ten to that the practice ()f Hamilto·n's thirty tiollars. with which to form Lihrarian. of selling paperbacks a nuel<'US for just such a library. on the side, In the library, is Our own faculty was a true pre- \heresy\, but that it illu.stra tes cUl-sOJ·, for paperback library lists the change coming about. have long been compiled· by both The removal of ..stem ware from th<' English and History depart- one entire wall of the ca.rnpus mPnts. store, has really earned Mrs. Rill's l'se As Texts Praised little establishment the title of Many professors not among the \The Bookstore\. In what will r>at·ly agitators for the present probably be his most inspiring situation, certainly praise it. Pro~ words, Professor LarrabQe said: fessor Larrabee shares the opin- •'Clear out another wall-Don't ion of many of his colleagues, stO'p now\!! A Cinema Review \Three Strange Loves\ By Peter Sussman The Scotia Art Theatre is pt'es- Pntly featurin.g the baffling and unusual story of Three Strang-e I,ov<'S, starting Eva Henning and Bkger l\1almsten. Thi-s is another in the line of motion pictures cre- ated hv the talented Swedish \\'!'iter ~nd director. lngmar Berg- man. Tht• latter, :most famous in the U'mted sta'tes for the wide- ly publicized motion picture Wild Stra.wbt'rrif's show~:> in this film his keen intellect and creative genius that is rapidly winning him acclaim. ThrPP Strang-P Loves is con- cerned with three women, associ- ated in thE'it· younger years as hallet dancers. Each renounced or were forced to abandon the life which she had planned. Hav- ing dedicated their lives to the ballet, they find themselves in an unprotecting void, once the moth- erly influence is gone. Each, in attempting to close the gaps of emptiness, comes to grips with conflicting emotions. which re- sult in the three strange loves. Three of the most unusual, al- though necessarily brief character studies, are presented through the liberal use of flashbacks and fade- outs. By the use of this mise en scene the conflict in the charac- ters' minds are represented with- out the customar-y exciting plot. Bergman presents his gloomy \'tory through the actions and thoughts of Rut, one of the three afor<'mentione-d women. A victim of drink and at th.e mercy of her strange emotions, Rut fights to ovet·come the terrifying results of a love affair. The other two womf'n are even more tragic. Their· lives remain empty, without permanent benefit of a normal love. Their releases are sure to amaze, shocl!, and confound the viewer. To be sure, one of the most positive qualities of this film is the technical proficien·cy 11·ith which it was produced. Here Bergman shows his mechanical aspect of his genius. The neces- sity of reading English subtitles, a great hindrance to tht> emo- tional impact of ot-her foni'gn films, is no bother in Tltr('(~ Secrl\t Loves. Every sound. cam- era angle, and motion has as its purpose the heightening of the desired emotional effect. Tltre'6 Strange Uives, like eo many of Bergman's movies. is baqling. To unravel the intima- cies of this challenging film should be a valuable pastime for the viewer. Ingmar Bergman's work of art requires a delving mind to fathom the great depths, yet paradoxical heights, that t·he film achieves. ---().----- Scouts Meet A day-long open house program, designed to acquaint Boy S.couts with higher education, vvill be staged at Union College on Satur- day, February 13th, by Union's chapter of .Alpha Phi ·Omega, na- tional collegiate Boy S.cout frater- nity, Plans for the event were an- nounced today by Fredel\iclt E. Firman, junior classman from Mohawk, New York, chapter pl:esi- dent. Undertaken this year on an ex- perimental ha.~is, the open house program will include talks by members of Union's; staff and fac- ulty, a tour of the campus, visits to science and engineering Iabor'- atories, and attendance at the Union-NYU swimming meet. T1ris is a purely local effort of Union's chapter of the fraternity, being basically a pledge project. thPatrical renderings.\ The result is a conglomeration o.f approaches \\'hich at'<' nrver devrloped as they might have been if just pose stud- iPS, or fantasies, or whatevet· had !Continued un Page 6) ~-~~~~~-~---~~~--~~~~~~~~-~ ~ - D I I B pl!B!IIIIBIB!-II!li'IIEBS. HUROK presents ll!<lllmlllill!lllii!!I:Zlli!llllllllllMlii!lll!)l E.RIROLL GARNER PIANIST-COMPOSER wit~ BaS$ & Percussion Accompanilfi~nt: ALBANY ARMORY FRIDAY, MARCH 4 8:30P.M. Sale Van Curler's .. Schenectady Tickets: $2.00, $2.50, $3.00 Baldwin --------------------------~ FERRO'S REST AU RANT Specializing in ltalion~American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on thA dollar !»IZZA Free Parking Dl o-9554 I 115 Berrett St. Scotia NOW Thru. W~d. Nightly at Art Theatre 7 and 8:45 ANOTHER GREAT FILM BY INGMAR BERGMA.N I THIRST FOR LOVE •• UNION PHARMACY \Drugs and Fountain Service\ Leo l<atzman, B.Sc. 600 Union St. FR 4-3605 ,, II II I ! .. ·---~~;~-;;~~~----- ~ONELY FOR MAN'S TDIJCHl ! lAUNDERETTE I 529 Liberty St. I Do It Yourself Lauadry I Washers - 25c a WE>ek I I (Holds up to I 0 Ibs.) 1 !Large Dryers - I Oc for I 0 min. I' I (Holds up to 40 Ibs.) I Open 24 nours a day - I 1 7 days a week I ~---------------------1 DIAMANTE Restcnuant and Bar Visit Our New Dining Room A Place foG() to Relax Opp. The B~ownell Gate on Nott St. Open Daily I 0 to 3 A.M. Sundays 5 to 3 A.M. Friday, \\'Mi\T major ru be a <'-£ political lH thP Nation r a politi< vcrsity .c ceHent entitled fessor S !em of : it is to to dire{: We a too fan tions nJ arrive a on the 1 nuclear !ems ar> perhaps our she after av this eit cyniclsn .problem the lay the otb consideJ accidenl with m Is it to im destroy~ cidenL? surprise basis o: format! tion an• either ; triggeri structic tiona! 1 Two face ea of mut, may sa Mr. Ei~ of peac a nnst: structic Mr. K surely I United prise n the So tions? Look point < sparse! and mi of the gressiv surpri5 phasis the ba> \retalil serves first 'Oi to beli ope rat tory\ i arly -~ thinkil bars ! States study, Strate, eludes image stratel air bl destru Grat have f sumin ern-in grant! side o are tb trigge Pt·o \the s prise could tary · fou·r I ed by strate sessin ering fiftee: there ing ti decisi Bl u:; at So w ge

12, i960 owh. The vari- a,; can be to nave de- student a to draw- be- a brief art great as of small ' will prove and the Drawing inds much As notes, \If voke in kind of little si- .perhaps a tl'll the ex- note. by II was work for Denying e from ail point of the Vene- was of the 6) • I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I ---,-· St. ce\ 4-3605 week 10 min. i _____ ,J / Frld«~y,. february 1'2, 1.'960 Accidental War By Joel Ticlmor /;/1 111 ~/ilii . --M:t'.'* Ticlmor is a Government Not too long ago. a flock of 1 • maj~r and has proved lnmseH Capadian geese crossed a DEW 1 be a campus le!t(ler l.n line . radar statit;m. Their signals politlcaJ. debating ·groups. . were tnter;pr:eted as emanating 1 .from some ldnd of aircraft. De- In the January 30 issue c1sions had to be made instantly I Nation magazi11e. J. David and within, seconds men were I a political scientist at the : a!~rted and .planes took to the I versfty of M;tchigan, wrote ·a,tr bounq for you kn·ow where. 3 WRUCSeeks New Look Paul Coh,n, President and Man- . ager of the station, and Vince Ciani, Public Relations director, are trying to give the student body a higher 4uality of broad- C()llent and ·Provocative Thank good:ness, someone was I ehti11ed \Su11prise Attack.\ able to recog!liZE;l a goose from· · · · fessor Singer deals with the a plane ot• missile, thereby saving I ., castmg and mercasc the jJOjJU- larity of the radio station. There . will be a hew schedule of pro- graming; better and 'iHcreas~d re- ception thi'Oughout the campus, WRUC spomlored reeord hop:; and a future po:;:;ibility of becoming a commel'cial station. !em of accidental world war .and us from :bej!)g ••goosed~' into war.J It !:;; to this problem that I wish - to dire·cl my remarks. To take another example of pos-~ .. We are all familia,r-p ·acCident, let us suppose that ;~-·-~·:- too familiar-with the negotia-· U:S:. intelligence sources piece to- 1 ... '.'\ Bcginnir\g next w~ek WRUC broadcasting will change from 6:45 A.!li.-12: 15 A.!IL to 11:00 A.M.- 12:15 A.M. There are two reasons for this change. First reason being that incr-east·d competition among the WRUC di.~k jo-ckeys ·will allow for ·better ·announcPr-s. tions of the la.st few years getb,er material evidence which J arrive at an acceptable agreemen.t. seems to indicate '(rightly or on the :Rrohibition and control <>f Wl'ongly) the imJI1inent launching I n.ucl!lar armaments. These prob- a surprise nuclea.r attack. It i !ems are undeniably complex an should not be d,ifflct1lt to imagine ' perhaps some of us have shrugged ·our decision~makers deciding not our shoulders and lost to abide by the Queensbury rules .after awhile. We may have done· of gentlemanly conQ.uct in favor this eitheT out of indifferen.ce,. of striking first to av()id .an at- tack. Bul\. supp'Ose that Soviet cynicism, or a feeling that .the intelligence sources go throUgh problems were too immense for the same proc()ss and di$cover · the lay intellect. Many of us, .on 1 t}lat. we are planning to launch the other hand, may not have: a surprise attack. is it not rulso 1 co~idered the possibility of an· \natw·al\ for them to \prevent\ a.cc1dental- W'Orld War III fought . an attac~ by P,recipitating an at- with _nuclear weap?n~. tack? World War III might thus Is 1t .no~ a horrlfYI.ng thou~ht ; be stumbled into by each side to ~magme . mankmd being fearing attack from the nther on d~tw;ed as· the. resul~ of an ac-. the basis of what !Xlay be erron- Ciden~. By acCident ts meant a eous intelligence ·sources requir- sur~mse a~tack 'launched on t}\le ing immediate action. basts of e1ther (1) erroneous m-' fol'Illation or (Z) correct informa- Tit fol' Tat I'olicyJ? lion and erroneous deductions. In either instance it would be fear trigg;ering the mechanism of de- struction designed by more ra- tional and ·c).eliberative men. Two hostile military coalitions· fat<e each othel;' . with the power of mu..tual annihilation. But\ you may say, both Mr. Khruschev and Mr. Eisenhower claim t'O be meh of peace, so why talk about ·such a nasty thing as- accidental de- ~:~trl.lction? Even those who dollbt Mr. K's sincerity would most surely believe it impossible 'fol' tlte United States to initiate a sur- prise nuclear attack, so how cotJ.!d the Soviets misjtJ.dge our rnten- tions? Soviet Fears Attack lJooking at things from . their point of view, ouT above ground sparsely .protected \defensive\ air and missile bases .on the periphery of the Soviet Union, become- \ag- gress·ive\ launching sites for a surprise attack. The heavy ecrn- phasis on strategic air power as the backbone .of a '~defensive\ and \retaliatory\ NATO command serves equally well for-a strike- first \Operation. It W'9Uld be ~aive to ibelieve that the Soviet leaders operate from the purely \retalia- tory\ interpretation. Recent schol- arly ,~tudies of Soviet military thdnking reveal that Moscow har- bors genuine fears of a United States •Slll']?rise attack. One such study, Raymond Garthoff's Soviet Strategy ~ the Nuelear Ag-e, cc{)n- cludes that •itbe dominant Soviet image of Ameri·can military strategy is a massive, su:rpdse air blow with weapons of mass destruction.\ · S\lpposc, for another example, that a real accjdent ctakes place. Something goes wrong ait a Soviet missile site and due to mechani- eal accident a missile is launched for Pittsbuvgh. Khr.uschev hears of this and frantically places a long distance call to Washington (the wire·s are clear). '~Hi, Ike! So sorry old boy, but someone let a missile go for Pittsburgh. Don't take offence. Nothing hostile in- tent;led. See you in the spring.\ What would the. President's re- sponse 'be? Wha.t would your response be? Would Ike _return the call and 'Say \Morning .Nickie! Good· to ·hear from you. Seems like ouT boys had the same. trou- ble this morning, so please for- give us when our missile lands in Kiev in fifteen minutes\; or would the President shrug his shoulders write the whole thing off as just one 'Of those ·things? .A,ccidents can happen and the element of time in strategy may call for instantaneous decisions. Accidental woi'ld war is caused by miscalculation. Supposing this to be true, and allowing for chance error, might it not 'be best expose our secrets to the enemY. and thus lessen chances for mis- calculatien? Might it n·ot· be de- sirable to let him know the loca- tion of our launching sites and allow him to sta.tion observers there (with the t>pposite holding (Continued on Page 6) ~-----· .. ---·-----· Granting tha.t .soviet stt•aleglst have several good reasons f~r as- suming the probability of a ern-initiated nuclear attack, and gr~ting ai'lo that the opposite side of the coin holds true, wltat . are the risks of an_accidental war triggered ]:}y fear? Professor Singer writes t'llaJt \the strategic impact of • . . a sur- prise attack ~ so •great tltat It· could conceivably lead to mili- tary victory in less than twenty- fo1lr hours/' This impact is caUSi- ed by the importance of time in .strategy. With each side .:PoS- sessing IRBM:'s {)a;pable ·of d~liv­ ering nuclear warheads aJt up .to fifteen tim(3$ i;he speed of ,sound, there is only a very limited watn- ing tiine. Oli the instane.ou:s, ON THE STAGE ONE PERFORMANCE AT 8:30 WED., ·F~B. 24th MIRIAM HOPKINS IN THE WANT FUN? Second this ,.;hm ter period of time will p<'rmit c>nly the mor<> select records to· be played. With the construction of the new library the old WRUC power lines had to be taken down. In its place are. now underground wires, which are not susceptible ·to the effects of weather, and will enable West and South cCollege :&y Jack Thibbitts ~----------------~------------------------------------------ In Uni'on'!;! :Wng history .there form ·of •silk handkerchiefs for I Letters flew baclt and forth as are maruy interesting highlights . their heads. These proving un- both schools foresaw confusion at of l'vhich. ~ following arti~e ·obtainable, they compromised, the next regatta, to be l:).eld in conce1'Iling the Clhoice of Garnet picking crimson, which they usoo 1875. Uni'On tool' the position as a col&r is jnst one. until 1856. That year, when they that magenta was her color by trioo to buy oCrimson handlter- previousness, while Harvard con- Every college has its distlo.- chiefs at Worcester, where the I tended that priority was dated Rowing. Association regatta was from the color's display in an guishing .color and Union's is ga:r- t{) be held, they discovered noth- athletic contest, and, as such, she net. Most schools choose their ing but magenta could be had. ha:d to right to magenta. There hUe by the mundane method ·Of Not batting an eyelash, the matters stood. preference expressed by V'Ote. dauntless men of Harvard took Union Aband'Ons Clabn Garnet as a choice, however, is these, being of necessity color· At aoout th~ same time both the exception to this :tule .and blind, and had the~ entered in schools took action. Uni~n de- actua:lly its choice has quite a· the program as crimson. The cided· that, even though she had history. . press and people were ~ot to be priority on magenta. it was com- Curiously enough, the \battle deterred, however, and 1t becaine monly 8.'3Sociated with Harvard. royale\ hetween Harvard and Un- graqually accepted that Harvard's So Union chose garnet as its new ion began with another con1lict color was magenta. ·color. between French and Italian fo:rces Magenta. First Choi'Ce Meanwhile, in Cambridge, the at Magenta, Italy. Union too had cllosen magenta, dispute bad stirred up memories Magenta (for so the new dye some say as early as 1857, but of crimson and when the ori:ginal found at a;bout this time (1:859) this is improbable because this silk handl,erchiefs were produced, and named for the battle was date is two years before the fam- the sentiment swung toward crim- called) wa:;; the height of fasllion ou:s battle which •gave the dye its son. in Europe for some years and name. Proof does exist that this And so, in the rowing race of in 1866 was introduced to Arner- co.Jur was chosen at Union in 1875, magenta was nowhere to be ica, where it enjoyed the same 1866. This caused no. problem seen. We are not neglecting the success. until Uni'Qn was accepted into the mention of Union's finish in the Enter the villains. The liar- Rowing ~ociation, of w'hi<lh field of thirteen. It wasn't long, vard crew, decidin•g on a college Harvard was already a member. however, ·before the men under color in 1858, chose blue, in the In 1874, therefore, Union and the garnet banner became a force Harvard claimed magenta. to reckon '(l'ith. ..,.. ............ ....... to receive better reception. Record Hop Pliu:med This Saturday night, as part of an increased public relations pro- gram, WRUC will sponsor ite: first record hop, at the Schenectady Commi\Ility Center. Plans for further hops at high schools and at Union College are also part of the program. According to Vince Cioni, \WRUC is rated high among college broadcasting, and by improving public relations it will give 'Qoth the college and the station a betteT name.'' For ·many years there bas been n'O opening for a commercial li- cense in the Schenectady area for WRUC. Recently the Federal Communications Commission in conjunction with the Intercollegi- ate Broadcasting Commission has made available additional com- mercial licenses. This would be a b!g undertaking fOT the college, . since it W()Uld entail courses which would train students for professional announcing. At present WRUC has not ap- plied for a licen15e. Jaul Cohen feels that \it is a good idea fl'om the public relations po!;nt of view, but the program is still in 1ts in- fancy, and will require a good deal of W()rk and study.\ 0 ~'Justice For Doyl_e\ \Justice for Doyle\' a phrase ~ainted on the East W'all of Dewey Hall during the December 9 stu- dent commotion which followed the controversial Coach Doyle de- 'ision will be painted over as soon as weather pel'Illits. Dean of Stu- dents •0. Edward Pollock announ- ced on Tuesday that the college had been unable to erase the phrase more quickly \because its oil paint\ ~-·---- ----· ~ -·-·-I ABANY AJRMORY' , Saturday, Feb, 27, 8:30P.M. Did you know that beer had a religious conno- tation. in Babylonian days? And that women brewers were actu;;tlly temple priestesses, re- .serving some types_of beer for certain temple ceremonies? Did you know that the ancient :Egyptians' abhorrence of drunkenness inspired .the•brewing of beer as a beverage of modera- tion? Did you know that Rameses III es- teemed beer so highly that he sacrificed 30,000 .gallons a year to the gods? :BE MY VALENTINE LIZ ••• and Pll buy your Sift at Maurice B. Graubart & Sons, Jewelers, I 66 Jay St. · We ¢an depend on their .3 · 9el!eration reputation. Pet'! RECORD SALE $1.00 OFF ALL LONG PLAY RECORDS Van Curler Music 501 ·state 'St., Sale 'Vent ·curler's. 'Sc:h'dy Tickets: $2.00, $2.50, $3•00 . ., ... Best Service in Town Schuh I Esso Service 115 Nott St. Come in and Fill Up with the Best Gas in Jown ...... ;\ . Did you know ... the best way to satisfy your beer thirst quick is to knock, knock for Knick! Smooth and frosty-dry; that's why! Knick~r­ bocker-the quenchingesttaste i,n town! NEW YORK'S FAMOUS BEER .JA.C08-'RUPPIEATt .N, y.c.

12, 1960 t The much vari- .t.s can ·Le h) have tuda,bl<> de- st udP·nt a to draw- be- a brief art great as aspects of hesc smal! will p1•ove and the Drawing finds much As notP,;, ••If voicP in kind of a little si- pt>rhaps a 'itt'! I of the! ex- note. by II wMch was work for Denying from an point of s the Vene- which ¥tas of the 6) I I I I I I a T St. 4-3605 LL St. I' II II j I I I I : 1 I WE>ek I 1 10 min.: 1 I I aay- 1 l -------.1 Friday, February 12, 1960 Accidental War ---~ By Joel Mr. Ticlmor is a Government major and has pro'\l'd 'himsl'lf to be a campus IP11.!ler in various political debating g-I'oups. WANT fUN? BE MY VALENTINE LIZ ••. and I'll bLty yoLir Gift at Maurice B. Graubart & Sons, Jewelers, 166 Jay St. We can depend on their 3 generation reputation. Pete ON THE STAGE ONE PERFORMANCE AT 8:30 WED., FEB. 24th MIRIAM HOPKINS IN THE 11 A Marvelous Play.\ -BROOKS ATKINSON, N.Y. Tlmll - PRICES, INC. TAX - Orch. 4.30-3.75 Orch. Loges 3.20 Balcony 2.75 - 2.25 --------------· RECORD SALE $1.00 OFF ALL LONG PLAY RECORDS Van ·curler Music 501 State St. ABANY ARMORY Saturday, Feb. 27, 8:30 P.M. Sale Van Curler's, Sc:h'dy Tickets: $2.00, $2.50, $3.00 Best S~rviee in Town Schuh I Esso ServicE 715 Nott Si. Come in and Fill Up with the Best Gas in Town !WRUCSeeks INewLook I Paul Cohn. Pn•skh•nt and ::\1an- l ager of tlh• ,.;\a tiDll, and Vince i Ciani. l'u'blir l:··lat:uns di'rector. , ate tr·yJng to ._:,\\l' tht· .-.:tudt>nt 'hody a h:~ll··r •tuality uf ·broad- Ca .. ..:;tliH.! a11d IIJC'! t'.L.\\(' lilt' }HJ!JU lanty of tlw nullo stat iou. Tht•rt· will be a lli'W .~l'h<·duh· u.f pro- : ... ~rJ!uing, bt\tt\r anti lTll'IL'a~(·d rt·· , C.t•ption Uu oughDut tht• t'aill'JlU~. : \\'J{L'C >J1UliS10l'<'<l 1 <'<'Ol'<l haJJ,; and a tutu'll• pw,s!lnl :t:> of b<·cuming ! a l'Ufllllll'ITiaJ :-:t:·ltlOll ' B<'ginuing- rwx t wn·l{ \\'RCC 1 bruuJca>l ing \iII <'lwn;.:<· from 6.·15 A.:l!.-12.1~' ,\ :\1. lo ll.Oil A.~L- Did you know that beer had a 1·eligious conno- tation in Babylonian days? And that women brewers were actually temple priestesses, re- serving some types_ of beer for certain temple ceremonies? Did you know that the ancient Egyptians' abhorrence of drunkenness inspired the-brewing of beer as a be\\el·age of modera- tion? Did you know that Rameses III es- teemed beer so highly that he sacrificed 30,000 gallons a year t() the gods? Did you know .•. the best way to satisfy your beer thirst quick is to knock, knock for Knick! Smooth and frosty-dry, that's why! Knicker- bocker-the quenchingest taste in town! RUPPERT NEW YORK'S FAMOUS BEER JACOB RUPPEI:RT, N,y,c,

I i' i :l i! ii II ·.r 4 ~riday, ·Febr-..ary 12. 1960 Garnet Splashed By Williams, 55-36 Volleyball Team Union Matmen to Meet Clarkson Away; In 4th Season, Victory Is Needed For Winning Slate Opens at Home ED RUTH JIM McDONALD Bl· ,John Luhetkin Facing New York University, the University of Buf- falo, and }{ochester University in the next week the Union College Vm·sity Swimming Team seems a safe bet to con- tinue their winning season.~- Facing a powerful Williams ming against Buffalo and N.Y.U. College team this past Wednesday Diamond is still working <>ut and the Mermen bowed by a 55-36 will be ready to go ~nst Roch- scorE'. Paced by Ed Ruth, the ester. meet's only double >vinner, and Coac.h Fedosky declared him- Jim MacDonald the Dutchmen self \satisfied with most of the could pick up only four first times against Williams. I wa.s places, all in the ft·eestyle events. dissappointed with MacDonald's Ruth Taltes Double fifty, and still think that he can break that record, but naturally was very happy with his hundred.\ Fedosky co·ntinued that he wa.s \dissappointed that Williams had nobody to push Ed <Ruth) in the 440. He went out in his fastest time <2:12.0) and could easily have gone through the record if some- body had been near .him.'' Ed Ruth continued his winning ways by powering his way to an impressive victory over Williams' highly rated distance man, Peter Coughlin. Off to a fast start Ruth took the lead at the 75 yard mark and was never challenged again as he finished in a strong 2:30.1. In the 440 Ruth was up against Coughlin and Teny Allen. Again he broke quickly and neither Wil- liams man was able to keep up his steady pace. Union's only other winner wa.s senior MacDonald. Although de~ fcated in the 50 yard freesty.!e, for the first time in over a year, Mac- Donald was far from discouraged in the 100. Getting off to a fast start, and flipping beautifully in the fast W.illiams pool, the classy senior broke his own 10(} yard freestyle record ·with a great 53.1 clocking. This was six-tenths of a second better than the old record which MacDonald set last year at Trinity. The only other Dutchmen first came in the 400 yard freestyle re- lay. Her'e MacDonald, Scott Flan- nagan, Dave Muench, and Ruth had little trouble beating the Wil- liams entry. Buffalo Wealt Foe Meeting the University of Buf- falo this afternoon at 3:30 P.M. the Mermen expect little real com- petition. With the exception of \Boom-Boo:m\ Bob Brogan in the sprints Buffalo just hasn't the depth nor individual starts ta pre- sent a serious challenge. Bill Sanford, who has mentored the Bulls for 12 years, looks to four Iettennen to back up sopho~ more Brogan. T·hese include sen- iors Ted Matthews, Steve Stroh.er, Bob Grantham, and junior Bill Carpei1ter. By Leslie Mar.rus \All things being equal, ifn t-he sixth match of a we should do quite well this very discouraging season year.\ With these words, the Union Matmen will meet Professor William C. Au- the Clarkson grapplers in brey, varsity volleyball Alumni Memorial Gymnas- coach, summed up the corn-. ·ium, at Potsdam, New York, ing s.eason for his veteran- on Saturday. According to laden squad. Coach Bruce Allison the en- Volleyball is one of the newest ~ountex· \should prove to be varsity sports at Union College. a real wing-ding of a meet.\ Started about four years ago as a club, with a volunteer coach from Clarkson thus far this season the Y. M. c. A., the team sched- ha.s lost fout of its five matches uled most of the comparatively to very strong teams; -C<>rlland, r 11 b 11 1 · 11 • R.l.T., Ithaca, and Colgate. In ew vo ey a P aymg co eges m the only comparative score avail- the East. After continually fine' able at this time the better show- showings, climaxed by a good. ing that Cl'nrk,;on put 'in against showing in the Tennessee Na- Colgate would give C!arl{SOn the tionals in 1955, volleyball was E>dJre In the Saturday match. m@.de a varsity sport. ln its four years of eldstence, ihe team has' •Clark!!ll'n Match Is Crucial played at better than a .500 clip. The ClarKson match is the ., The whole team is eagerly look- crucial one for the Matmen for mg forward to the February 2,7. if they can pull this one out of home opener against teams (rom the bag they will have a chance Springfield, Cornell, and Cooper to complete the season with a ·5-4 PETE .ADASEK Union. With 14 upper-classmen on record. Last year the Garnet the 25 man squad, the team has were able to overhaul the Golden looks as though it will be his the necessary experience. The Knights 16-13. ·best. His two year record is team is led by Walt Von Seggren To say that this season's Tech seven wins, eight losses and two and co-captains Joe Andriani and V<.·restling team is an improve- ties. Ail of his losses have been Paul Weisner. ment over last season's 'is eel'- ·by one point, indkating that· he Since volleyball is a relatively tainly an understatement, for the has never been outclassed. new intercollegiate sport, sched- tea.rn:'s record last year was · 0-8. Ron Sorrell is another one of uling is difficult, but Professor As Coach Jack Hantz put it Hantz's \dependables\ this sea- Atibl'ey, coach for 1 the last two \there's just no p!a;ce to go but son. Wrestling mostly in the 123 years, is confident that an inter- up record-wise.'' pound class, Sorrell is small, but esting slate will be worked out. This year Hantz •ha:s the rna- he is a perfectionist and thus far Spectators at the game& are tet•ial to do this, since he had one thi-s ·has been his most successful s,parce now, but they are bound to.· of the largest turnouts ever as- season. improve when fans recognize the sembled at the beginning of the fact that volleyball is one of the season. most exciting spectator sports The nucleus of the team is com- available. posed of four returning lettermen fro-m last season, all top perform- ers, plus some nine tough so·pho- m()res. Heading the list of re- tm·nees is Morris Knapp, 137 pound senior. This is Knappls third season of wres-tling and it ---10--- All men interested in playing Freslunan Lacrosse are requested to report to the Field H<mSe at 4:00 P.M. ll'n Monda;y, March 7. Fogelberg Is a Huge In the heavier classes Jon Fogel- ·berg, in his third yeax- of wrestling under Hantz, has wrestled in three weight class~s. 'including heavy- weight. Clinton Erb, 157 pound junior, is a quick man and is capable of the qui<:k pin. Thus far this season the Wl'est- ling team's dlm record has !been attributable <to a ra.sh of dropouts. Dixie Bergman, a top wrestler, fa;iled to come out this. season because he decided it was due time that he did some work aJt the college. Don GrossQ, 130 pounds, alS'o dropped out for scholastic reasons. Big J()sses to team were Bruce Schmidlin, who didn't return after vacation; Pean Soldineer, who left for fin- ancial reasons; and ·Carl Weiss, 157 pounds, left for reasons un- known. Other dropouts weTe John Charlton, 177-167, Art Good- man, 177, Stan Jacltowski, 137, Paul Winston, 147, tmd.Erny Tor- izzo. Another crimp in the team's potential came last week when John Perldns, one of the top men on the team, got a cauliflower ear in an accident. He will attemll't to take part In the Clarkson match, wearing spec-ial headgear • Adasek Is Sole Returnee \.Vilh Pete Adcsclt as the only returning rcgl.!lur iL is not sur- prising that~the grapplers have been unable to get out of the doldrums thus far this season. The team members, who didn't quit, may have put all .they had into their matches, but there is no substitute for experience. The Garnet's sole victory thia season was against Brooklyn Poly, In this engagement the grapplers were able to sweep all but the first two individual matches. The first loss of the season against RPI was a close match that could have gone either way. The re- main_ing meets {l,gainst Colgate, King's Point, and Alfred ·showed the Dutchmen to be completely outclassed. The Colgate match was a slaughter; Union's aole win coming- on a- forfeit in the 130 pound class. Against King's Point the Matmen were· able to pull two events through. Meet Not in Doubt There was actually, though, lit- tle doubt as to -how the meet would go. Williams had little trouble picking up their seven first places, and despite a small squad took five seconds and two thirds. In the individual medley and 100 yard butterfly events tqe Ephm~n broke th0ir own college records, and also swept the dive and breaststroke events. In addi- tion to their four fir~ts th£> Dutch- men picked up four ·seconds, and t \\ u thu tl::;. Bcshleti ~IacDunald in tl':.e C>O Dave HPnrl<>rqon took l'!f>C- onds in the individual and back- stroke events, and Jerry Meyer took one in the 'butter-fly event. In the breaststroke Howie Adams was nosed out for serond pbt'e in a thrilling race, and Eric Tiechol.z took a third in the dive. -The meet against N.Y.U. tomor- row, though, will be an entirely different story. Despite the loss of their outstanding freestyler, Dick Glazer, N.Y.U. will px-esent a well-balanced, powerful team. ,Distance men Ken Kassim and Stan Tshare promise to give Ruth plenty of trouble, and MacDonald will also have his hands full. Ashare has the multiple dis- tinction of hold the Metropolitan, Eastern, and N.Y.U. pool back- stroke records. Checking Einstein with Three Mermen saw practically no action against Williams. Stud- ies forced Lew Buckman to forego the trip, and John Lubetkin was unable to swim more than one race because of a side ailment. Steve Diamond did not make the trip, nor will he see action for the rest of the week. Diamond Is out hecauHe of disciplinary action on the patt of Coach Fedosky, which resulted from Diamond's failure to attend practice last week. Despite the fact that he will not be 5Wi:m- Copped Met Title The Violets have copped the Metropolitan title for the last four years and are a solid bet to cap- ture their fifth straight and sev- enth in ten years. A third pla<le finish in last year's Eastern In\ tercollegiate Championship is an >~rlrlitionRl indiC'ation of their stremrth. N.Y.U. stands 7-5 ln a series w1th Union that dates back to 1923. The 3:00 P.M. home meet will see the home team faced with a real lack of depth. It is doubt- ful ·1f Lubetkin will be able to go more than C'n_e race, at best, and Diamond will not be in uni- form. · Coach Fedosky pointed out that, \without D~amond we will have a much tougher tim.e. H was going to be a real close one with him, but without him our war!{ is going to be cut out f'Or us.\ Looking ahead, though, Dutch- men prospects seem slightly bet- ter. Junior Dave Muench, who ha.s not swam since his high-school days, has gone out, and wi!l be able ta adequately fill Glenn Pre- bus• shoes. ::11 I llllllaiiJI IIIIU I U I II I II 111111111 IIIIU IIIIIUII 111111111111 IIIIIIU 1111111 I llllllillllllll~ - . - . : Down to Louis', let us go, : : : : Let the lager free!}· flow. : - . : : : A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere : . . E NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT ~ : = E Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. S - - . . ~ Large parties accommodated in our -§ s RATHSKELLER § . - § l Fo; reservafions phone FR 4-8917 E - - ;II II a 1111111 I I IIIII I 111111111111111111 II I U 111111111111111111111111 IIIII lllllll lllllllll lllllll~ Friday, F Pte: B~ In 'th~ items h~ ih the t ing Keitl jected r1 the wore Ketz ha1 unfoundE The de< Doyle can an investi Bill Ketz Board of cers of t After dUI feotball :; of the jol -it was U that sam be made. Doyl1 T·he de1 time it 1 Deceapber the oppor at the so< ECAC m City. T got out were hel a news le News in not suppc ed until The Ne\'i came fl'O ministrat ·knows w: The ·CO it plain 1 tion ·of v with ·coa nlze Doy ina! sala August, expires. Doyle ago) if I ... Puri semi£ a1 Tot tists opi11 at lt: and am on t tim~ Wo1 Cali (Mi Em will yea for vib Bel chi clo' a f1 tro to; me clo pa1 uri . Eil In an

12. 1960 has !been dropouts. p wrestler, season t was due work at 130 out for losses to Schmidlin, vacation; eft f()r fin- Weiss, un- were Art Good- 137, Tor- the team's When he top men liflower ear attempt Clarkson headgear. the only is ·not sur- have out of the his season. who didn't .they had ut there is rience. this Poly, grapplers but the The against that could The re- Colgate, red ·showed completely match sole win in the 130 Point to pull two 5 Friday, f~bruary 1:2, 1'60 Prexy Discusses Keith Doyle .Situation; N~AA Meeting - Cagers D·efeated • K~etz & Co. S·eek New Football Coach Vzews c~~nn~s . • • ' By Leslie Marrus capacity than as head ln Classzfzcatzon NeedReJ uvenation In \the past few weeks , coach. \I was hlre_d as varsity Representatives of the ~terns hav~ been appearing _. ~~~~ai~a~~~c~~·e ~;l~hjo~~~~tdi Union College Athletic De-. ·~n the. Umon Stai' co;ncern- r;·t· ..... ;-· want.\ · partment recently attended ~ng Keith Doyle and his pr?- \\ · For the time being- Doyle is the annual National Collegi- Jected replacement, that m still the varsity football coach. ate Athletic As8ociation the words of Doyle and Bill · He will remain in this position Conference held in New Ketz have been \completely ·until a coach has been hired to York Citv. Several clinics · f d d \ succeed him in his present post. . un ·oun e . · If a C<Uldidate, who is better suit- were held in the various . The decision, to replace Keith ed, is found, then the college .will :sports rejH'esented with pm·- . Doyle came about as a result of make t b h' h · an investigation by Dr. Davidson, Doyle's a:~~;;~t>:;~ 1 b~· s~tl~cd_ 1ticulat· atention paid to pro- Bill Ketz,. the members of the This settlement will take the form posed rules changes and Board of Advisers, and the Offi- of the college's buying up Doyle's c 0 111 p l a i n t s from those cers of the Board_ of Trustees. contract. coaches in attendance. After due consideration of the· football situation at Union and of the job being done by Doyle, -it was the feeling of this body that :some readjustme11t had to be made. Doyle's Interests Ueede.d Union Athletic Director William Kctz was present as Chairma.n of At present ·~etz and his staff the Small College Cross-Country · are seatlchlng Ior someone who; JI.'If>et. held the past two years in · might make a satisfactot-y head· \\'hPaton. Illinois. Ketz said that Applicants. Numerous coach. The .':;earc~ beg-an at th<' · the greatest\ problem facing the NC:'\.A ~1eetmgs, m .January, at: con.vcntion was t.he question of the whtch. tune the memb£>rs of th£> ·big universities \squeezing out;' .~thlet!c D.epat·tment met many I the sm<11l college. \There nre ob- hkely CD:ndtdntes Thus f':r KPtZ I vious differences between the two has r .. ece!Ved over 4.0 ~.nqmries con- ·.l.faclio.ns,\ stated the Athletic Di· ce1•nmg ~he n~w op~nmg and more ,r<>clor, \the bi'ggcst one of- course are commg .. m each day. Some :being money. The big universities of the cand1dates . have ha.d over I with their multifold recruiting tpee~ years of college coachmg ex-., programs naturally have different ence. · interesrts than small colleges such At present the candidates and as Union.\ He added that there is · The decis.ion was made at the time it was <the early part of December) tO< allow Coach Doyle the opportunity to make contacts at the soon to be held NCAA and ECAC meetings in New York City. The fact that {he story gat out before these meetings were held came as a result nf a news leak to the Knickerbocker News in Albany, The ·story was not supposed to have been releas- ed until after these meetings. The Ne,vs ·claims that the leak came from ,some one ·in the Ad- ministration Building, but nobody ·knows who released the story. The ·college has tried to make it ·plain that t!hey have no int\en- t~()n of vioJ.ating their agreement with -cmich Doyle. They recog- nize Doyle's contract, at 'his orig- inal salary and rank, through August, 1961, when the contract their ':\ives are being invit~d down 1 also the qu~:stion o.f a college being I to Umon. Each candidates back- 1 a so-c::L!led major m one sport and --~----'---~----- ground is carefully studied and a minor in another. In the past a ing the third year of his contract he. is then ~eviewed by the Ath- college has been considered either to accept an assi·gnment other let10 .J?epartment and· the Board in one class or the other. Exam- tha.n varsity football coao·h. It of Vlsltors. pie~ such as Colgate _playmg a was the feeling at the time that A successor to Keith Doyle has maJOr col.lege schedule m footb8;ll the Athletic Department should. not as ye-t been found, but some aml a mmor college: schedule 1n out a different combination of very promising material 'has •been cross-country were C'lted. personnel and that Doyle sh'Ould S'een. _ Dr .. Davidson and Bill Ketz Tllere was, however, definite coach another sport or have a do not expect to reach a definite progress in remedying these situ- fuller program of physical edu- decision ·as to who the new coach ations at the convention. There is ca.:tion classes, for the remaining will be for at least another month, a gmwing tendency to break up year of his contract. but they plan to be able to a.n- American colleges and universities Wilford H. Ketz is shown in his office as he discusses the search for a new varsity football coa<~h. expires. Doyle was asked (two months ago) if he would be willing dur- Keith Doyle feels, 'however, that· nounce a new app()intment by in~o classifications o~ major and he doesn't wiS'h to sta on in any April 1. I minor to s. olve the first problem y · mentioned. Purity Plus-Hughes Products Division engineer checks semiconductor materials to insure purity. Exit cQnes capable of withstanrfing temperatures of 6000° F. represent one example of advanced engineering beill[J performed by the Hughes Plastics Laboratory. an atomic clock in orbit To test Einstein's generaltheoryofrelativity,scien- ' tists at the Hughes research laboratories are devel· oping a thirty pound atomic maser clock (see photo projects as advanced airborne systems, advanced data handling and display systems, global and spa- tial communications systems, nuclear electronics, advanced radar systems, infrared devices, ballistic at left) under contract to the National Aeronautics and Space-Administration. Orbiting in a satellite, - missile systems ... just to name a few. . a maser cloc1t. would be compared with another on the ground tc5 check Einstein's proposition that time flows faster as gravitational pull decreases. Working f~om the new research center in Malibu, California, Hughesengineer:s will develop a MASER (Micr_owave Amplification through Stimulated Emission of Radiation) clock so accurate that it will neither gain nor lose a single second in 1 000 years. This clock, one of three types contracted for by NASA, will measure time directly from the vibrations of the atoms in ammonia molecules. Before launching, an atomic clock will be syn- chronized with another on the ground. Each clock would generate a highly stable current with a frequency of billions of cycles per second. Elec- tronic circuitry would reduce the rapid oscillations to a slower rate in order to make precise laboratory measurements. The time \ticks\ from the orbiting clock would then be translfrltted by radio to com- pare with the time of the clock on earth. By meas· uring the'difference, scientists will be able to check Einstein's theories. · In other engineering acttvities at Hughes, research and development work is~ being performed on such ... ' The rapid growth of Hughes reflects the continuous advance in Hughes capabilities-providing an ideal environment for the engineer or physicist, whatever \his field of interest. ELECTRI-CAL ENGINEERS AND PHYSICISTS Members of our staff will conduct CAM PUS INTERVIEWS February 29 For interview appointment or inform~tional literature consult your C()llege Placement Pirect<>r. 0 r9B9. HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPAf',!Y TFieWest's leader in advanced ELECTRONICS r----------------------------· I I i ~UGHES \ L ____________________________ J tiUGHJ;'S AIRCRAFT COMPANY Culver City; El Segunao, Fulferton, Newport Beach Malibu and Los An~:eles, California; Tucs;;;, Arizona Pete Houlilhan sets his sights on the chance for a second win for the Garnet quintet, as ptey set out for bwo Metropolitan engagements. By Leslie Marrus In last Wednesday's encounter with Wesleyan in Mid- dletown, Connecticut, the Garnet quintet met disaster as the Little Three power coasted to a 79-41 victory. The Garnet's return to basket-0----------~~~~~~­ ball, after a month's layoff, was t3irnished as the Cardinal •coach emptied his bench and watched his charges run rampant over t'he hapless Dutchmen cagers. The effects of long inactivity were ap- parent in the Garnet's futile at- tempts to provide opposition to the home team. The entire Wesleyan squad had a chance to play on the boards, and all and sundry hit the scor- ing column as the victors glee- fully registered their eighth suc- cess in 15 outings. The Witzel- men, idle since January 12, when they defea:ted Norwich for the sole win to date in a disappoint- ing campaign, were handed their tenth loss in 11 season starts. The week's activities are far from over for the Union five. They have to face tW'O more formidable foes on a two-game weekend trip to Metropolitan New York. Pratt Institute is the Friday night op- position and Saturday night the team moves over to Hoboken, New Jersey, to take on Stevens Tech, which rates as ocme of the highest- scoring teams among the east's small colleges. Stevens Next Foe Tomorrow the Garnet quintet will be· in Hoboken, New Jersey, to play the Stevens Institute of Technology. The Stutemen are expected to be laying in waiting . for the touring Schenectadians. In a series that dates back to 1925 the Red a.nd Grey have won 17 games as opposed to Union's 16 victories. This year's Stevens team makes up for what it laclts in height with experienced, knowledgeable playing. The Stutemen have the ability- to provide a brilliant dis- play of speed and accurate shoot- ing to their opponents. 'l'he home squad of 12 'is composed of seven returning lettermen; four seniors and t'hree juniorS. Against Wesleyan on Wednes- day, the Dutchmen found them- selves in fue hole aiter the Car- dinals ran up a 24-7 lead at the ten minute mark. The Garnet quintet, however, was able to rally within six points at half- time to close the gap to 27-21 at the intermission. Sophomore star Bob Holland supplied the fire power for the Union tour de force. The early minutes of the sec- ond half proved disastrous to the Dutchmen's aspirations as the hosts spurted away to a 53-31 lead at the 3D-minute mark, inhospit- ably outscoring their Schenectady guests, 25-10._ Holle.nd Leads Scorers Holland, the 6-2 sophomore who just recently has taken up the sla<:l{ in scoring for Union and who earned ECAC All-East hon- ors for his worlt against Norwich, again led the Garnets on the tal- ley sheets with 19 points. The Cagers held the edge in rebounding 61•54. Holland with 19, again excelled in this depart- men:t. Max Steele pulled in 15 and Chuck Marshall gTabbed 11 away from the opposition. Dick Dubanowski was the Cardinal's top re]:l'Ounder with 15. Wesleyan shot a commendable 35 per ·cent on 33 of 90 attempts, wh1le the Dutchrrren were way off, hitting only 14 of 69 tries for a 22 per cent accounting. Both ~ teams had 13 free throws. Summary: Union G F P Holland 5 9 19 Houl!han 1 0 2 Steele 0 3 3 Marshall 2 0 4 Pelton 3 1 7 Karp 1 0 2 Gentile 1 0 2 Wate1s 0 () () Morgan 1 () 2 :l!agill 0 () 0 Arthur 0 0 0 Totals 14 13 41 Wesleyan G Frazzier 8 W0odb'ry Skinner Hohl 11 Dulmwsl<i Pen· ere Fisl;:e Johnson Towle :\1cCoo!< F P 4 20 1 5 4 6 2 2{ 1 7 0 8 0 2 0 2 1 3 0 2 Totals' 33 13 79 JQhn Wiscowski, 6-6, .has the height and the accurate shooting to make him the high scorer for the Stute cagers. Bob Acker, in fue pivot position, is a good driv- er and is truly rugged on the boards. Frank Okenka, a master at the fast break; is the spark- plug for the team. A good long jumpshot makes him a double ~---·-----------------, : ' 4 • J G AZETIE PRE-SS ! I PRINTERS I 1 l • • 1 • = thr:eat. Next week's games against Ver- mont, will again see the Garriet facing a formidable foe. The out- look for the basketballers, with the possibility of Bruce Walsh's being out for a couple of games, is n()t t'Oo bright. 4 • • • • • t s • ~ - 332 tate Street l : . !~---···-·····--··-----t ·-----~-~------------~----~ I . . 1 i : ANGELO'S RESTAURANT : : $.20 on the Dollar for Anything You Have for Students : : Also Dates or Family 1 I I I WEEK DAYS ~ I 1135 BARRETT ST. Open II A.M. to I A.M. I I 01 6-9261 FRI. & SAT. . I 1 FREE PARKING Open II A.M. to 3 A.M. 1 L~--~---------------------J

'I I :i I I : 'i Friday, February 12, 1'960 6 War. Student Co~nci~_ . .. D'avidson Surveys Projects ... (Continued fr()IIIl Page 1) (C001tinrued from Page 1) Ol . d Ma· ster· s Exht. bl. t· .• summer months in London con- true fQr our side)? HiS own ob- pointed Albet:_t chairman of the Town Five will enter~ain; <?n • 0 .. . . . • tinuing his work on \A Social :servers could: ten him if an a<Jci-. committee, but then added Casey Saturday night, the H1-Ilos Will History of English .A!g'dculture ·dent is ·really an !l!Ccident or a M co-chairman with A:lbert. ·perfoJ:'m in l\1emorial Chapel. The ,from 1870 to the Present.\ Grant- · c<i£.t will be $7.25 ·per couple and ed a sa,bbatical leave ·by the Col- strike-~irst blow·. If we <perfect Eli EnzeT Editor-in-chiefof the tickets for the concert a;lqne will lege, he remained in England, dur- a 'better wa:vning system, might it Garnet als'O' appeared at rthe meet- be $3.00 per person. The Ibid for ing the recent faJl semester to not be a go()d idea to share the ing at the invitation of the Coun- a .Jazz Weekend, to be held on ~ compile further information on · 1 th t h · \·t 1 · ,_. ,... h 19 as· awarded to the· · sec11et with the potential enemy? Cl , so a · e l;ll~g.~ ·~Pam 'HIS •r•arc , w . the subject. .somewhat ·~radical polic:Jie\s\ re~ard-· M:od,ern .Jazz Society, the only Most unusual 'Of the summer A bebter warning system increases ing the 1960 Garnet. .From a pre- bidder. They p~an to engage the projects was that engaged in by the time factor in decision-making pared statement, Mr. ltnzer vead, Max Roach Qumtet, and Qharge Dr. Fried, who conducted s.tudies and allows f-or more time t'l} de- ''The Gapi.et's innovatiom:s were· $2.00 per person. of \ ... certain characteristics of termine whether a radar blip is thoroughly, discussed in the Con- the female personality.'' Under- cordiensis, and we are suTe the President Ruth's request f'Or taken -in Schenectady and New a goose, a meteor, or a missiie. Council members rea.d Mr. Ar- other committee l'eports went York City, the project involved . Would not the .greater availabil- thur Friedman's ·article_ None somewhat unanswered. However, testing married women with chi!'- ity of ·reliable al).d beUevable in- of our conceptions have basically .. Mr. M9Leod, ~hairman of the dren, childless married women,. forrnati<m a>bout the other side changed sin,ce the publicati:on of :Elections Commlttee, hia;<'t a veply; $ingle women, and teen-age girls. tend to lessen the .probability for this article; ll.Iid recent!:[ fue Un- \Contrary to my promls.l at .~he Additional data is yet to be col- rniscalculatit>n? With diminished· deJ:'Igraduate Pub}Jcations Board, last meeting to .have a meetwg lected, a-ccording to Dr. Fried. ·fears and an improved psych'Olog- whicl:\ has the only and final au- before this meeting, I didn'.t, but Professor Kilburn spent the ical climate· it may then be easier thm.'i.ty- over us in terms of JlOlicy, · I promise to have a meeting be- summer months ·gathering data on to reacb a .solution of the arma- ·approved the Garnet'!> proposed··fore the next meeting.\ Above is l'resid.ent Carter Davidson, while ,·isit\ng the> \old nmstt'rs\ exhibit, eurrt'ntly on display in the art gall('>ry of Old Chapel. He is se>e.n scrutinizing two rejpresentative iWOrks from t:he collll('tion sl'lected by Professor \'1-'ayne Nowack. (Continued from Page 2J j the ~alen~ the man :t;ad. One the life of John Howard Payne. ments race. Or, if you are ~ prqgrMll.\ Although Enser de- The council elected Norman Payne, author of \Home Sweet pessimU3t, ltnowing the other fel- clined to answer any questions· Lavery to be its new delegate to Home,\ was graduated from the low b·etter m.ay serve only to con- regarding the :Garnet's editorial the H:PC. At the_ conclusion _of College in 1810. Professor Olden- firm yc:JUr most dire suspicions. p-olicies, he did invite questions' the meeting, President Ruth . m- brook engaged in priva;te research .Optimists to- tlie fore and let the on t'he Garnet as an activity. He traduced James Tweeder, a Vtce- and travel in Europe last sum- debate continue. insisted that it was not within President of the National Student I Aniencan LS represented m a chalk day. The figures are full, al~o~t work on blue pa,per by John Sin- sumptuous. re~lectmg the artl~t s i gleton Copley \from Boston). The h1~hly expres~1ve and dec'?r~tlve 1 drawing was a study for the ~pu1t. There 1s ·~ marked ;similar- 1 \Seige of Gilbrator,\ and it has Ily m the drawmg by \I; eronese elements of Copley's straightfor- ! 152~15~81 who Wfl;S a source of I ward approach, but does not ex- msplratJOn to I_l 'I'mtoretto·. The j ceed to a position of excellence Veronese drawmgs are .fNJm a as found in Tintoretto's work or p;.uge of figure studies he did, but even in Guy.s\ small Wash draw- n·en in these unpretentious quirk ing \\'oman with Hooped Skirt\. mer and also attended the pro- . the jurisdiction .of the Council to Association, who gave a brief talk gram for American teachers of officially question his editorial on proposals ·before Congress af- German given by the Goethe In-\ Gate -Reopened policy. President Ruth thanked· feoting students in general. stitute. In addition to his Union · · Enzer for \helpin \IS with your College research grant, ?r· Olden- I The Gillespi? Street Gate at the frank and candid comments.\ brook also held a Fulbright travel\ corner of linton Avenue will re- - The plans {or the Spring Prom Seniors !Wiho expect to gradu,ate grant. main perma.nently open according were announced to the Council are renlinded hy the Booltstore studie5, OnP SCl''4 <'VidC'UCC'\ Of the ' artist's flair for the festive ~pirit. These various samplings make a Union received $10,000 from the to Dean of Students 0. Edward 1 by Peter Houlihan, President of that after February 19, the charge Danforth Foundation In 1958 to 1 PQllock. Closed recently to allevi- 'I the C'IMS of '61. The ball will for measurement and rental &f spons'Or individual summer re- ate the campus traffic problem, be held Friday night, May 6, at caps and gcmns will be increased :;earch projects over a three year 1 the Gillespte Gate was re'Opened the Van Curler HQtel. Music wHI from $3.80 to $4.80. The Book- period. Individual awards, ac- 1 this week after many requests by I be supplied by Stan Rubin, and. stm·e has therefore requested all cording to President Davidson,· students and faculty. I during intermission, the Tiger Seniors to !).Ct proJIDptly. Tiq>olo'e: sm· 1 ll drawing- of a man visit to the Old Master show is, to lLSe an unscientific term, worthwhile as do the informative completely charming, for the art- notes added by Professor Nowack. ist has captured the flavor of a If the Art Department could con- moment w-ith an economy of line. iinue to present such guideposts The Challe stage setting which for the visitor, and if the shows hangs opposite is a typically over- selected could be restricted to the elaborate work which shows the dimensions available in Old Frenchman's .skill in technique Chapel, then we are sure that but leaves the viewer with the Union will find itself enjoying a impi·es.sion that technique was all superior art experience. will be made primarily for re- . search in the social studies and ~ llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!lllllllllllllllllllllllllll !II IIIII II!! llilllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!ili II :11111111111~ humanities, although they are not § := limited to any specific area. :;: :: Founded in 1927 .by Mr. and . : :; Mrs. William Danforth of St. ::; F p w k d = Louis, the Danforth Foundation I;; . or rom ee· . . en - - - = is dedicated primarily to the as- :: :: sistance of young men and women ;:: 5 who plan to follow careers in col- = Treat y. our Date· Rt.ght = lege teaching. In addition to =: :;: grants of the type made to Union :: = L l D • • College, the Foundation each year :;: :: Oya ty : eCISIOllS • • • awards substantial fellowships to· I= ::: . • • • college seniors interested in the :: :: \Continued from Page 1) l \Continued fl\om Page 1) teaching profession to assist them:= ov·ERNI'GHT ACCO· ... \'MO·DATIONS = during their first year of graduate =- . m . =- Code, shall be appli'Cable with groups generally represent more school. ~-- :_:: 1001 of title 18, United States I 'I'he people participating in bhese respect to such affidavits. than themselves. They are lead- ------------ ers and represent Qrganizations. ;==== BEST OF FOOD • • • §=::::_-_ The ACLU statement, released of all kinds. The program tries The l>y its executive director, Patrick to close the gap ·between :private _ DE-L~-CIOUS COCKTAILS _ Murphy Malin, declared that the. citizen and decision-maker. ANNEX STEAK ~:f:!~:t =n~~~~::~:~~~~~~:~1~g:=~~~~:~~~~e!~~iE' SteakHD?InuneSrE. $2.75~ -==~=== H 0 t e I Va n c .. u .r 'I e ·.r !:=====- and discriminatory as a \!Ondition 1 throughout the country are co- in applications for scholarship: operating and devoting time and aid. :space to public~e the objectives Here's a Wonderful Dinner \Of the two provisions, the dis- · and accomplishments of the pro- claimer is the most !ntolera?l:. gram. The Christian Science Designed for Everyone It attacks the foundatlOn of ClVII Monitor and many other news- - liberties, in the constitu:tional pro- papers are running weekly arti- OPEN EVERY DAY visions for freedom of thought, : cles repor,ting on the national h d · t· th I I 901 McClellan St. FR 2 9740 speec. an assocm 1on, e . ega 1 group discussions of the eight - - tradition of a_ssu,mmg the ~no-~ weekly topics. Two national radio :i'lllllllllllll111111111111111111111llllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllli 111111111111111111111111! llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll;: ~ence of the. md1v1dual until he and television uetworks, CBS and ls proved gwlty, and the general NBC, are giving time to create b.elief of our citizens that the ~a- interest in the program. twnal g<;>Vernment shall not m-1 The campus .program is to meet terfere m the management of : once a week and is open to all schools and the right of teachers 1 interested students, who should a~~ students to. seek the tr~th .. ! contact Professor William Bristol, The affir~ative ~at.h, -..vl.ule It' faculty advisor, or Joel D. Tick- n;Jay ·be traditiOnal m t~e mdu~-~ nor student representative. twn of government off1cers,\ 1s ' · now applied in a discriminatory • • ..... way to t'hose teachers and stu- dents who apply for funds under L G BALFOUR CO the . . . Act. The Act seems to 1 1 1 say at one and the same time: \'The nation depends on the full- est possible development of its intellectuals. but it has no con- fidence in their loyalty.\' CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS- FAVORS .JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - :KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or Call IFhen Tn s,·u· York l'iJitO:lliPP Fraternity Je-welers 14 E. 44th St. • New York 17. N.Y. I 171 Marsball St., Syracuse, N.Y. MUrray Hill 7-0850 1 Phone Granite 5-7837 ~---~-----~~--~---~---~----~ : FREE PEN.! FOR EVERY ORDER I~ 11 ME (17 wks) T; 1 c a co~y .$1.97 I :-_:TIME (I yr) 7c a copy . 3.87 I I:.J NEWSWEEK (17 wks) 9c a copy ... 1.501 I :::_j NEWSWEEK (I yrl 6c a copy ... 3:50 1 B::::: US NEWS & WORLD RHORT (26 wks) II c a copy . 2.67 I I C FORTUNE (I yr) 62c a copy . 7.50 ~_:; liFE (21 wks) 9c a copy . 1.91 I I:_.:; liFE (I yr) 7' ,c a copy . 4.00 I C LOOK (8 mos) 13c a copy 2.00 1 .__:SATURDAY EVENING POST (39 wks) IOc a copy 390 ~ =READER'S DIGEST (II l'l'os) 17c a copy ... 1.87 C CORONET (7 mosl ISc a copy .. .. .. .. .. 1.00 I l.J THE NEW YORKER {8 >\Os) 9c a copy . 3.00 I ;__;ATLANTIC MONTHLY (8 mos) 31c a copy . 2501 [~HARPER'S MONTHLY (I yr) 25c a copy .... 3.00 I 0 SATURDAY'S REVIEW (I yr.) Be a ~opy ..... 4.00 0 THE REPORTER (10 mos) 33c a copy ..... 3.271 0 SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN (I yr) SOc a copy .................... 6.00 I 0 HOLIDAY {9 mos) 39c a copy .. 3 sa 1 8 ~~~~~~ :~~~~~~~~~~ ::~y~k~c 9~ :o:;py ............ ·.·.·.··.·.:·.: .. · .. :._::.· .. :._: .. ·: .. :.·.: .. :.: .. :.: 451 .. :005000 ~~ 0 PLAYBOY (I yr) 40c a copy .... ..... . . ........ .. [J ESQUIRE (8 mos) 28c a copy ............ 2.00 I ;:] TRUE (.1 yr) 34c a copy . .. ......... 4.00 1 I STUDENT SUBSCRIPTION SERVICE. 2133 QP Norwood St., L. A. 7, Calif. I I.Enclosed find $ for the above marked magazines. Send to: I I Name Class of ' .... I :Address ............ : I City . Zone Stale ................. I 10 New O Renewal· OGift from: .......................................... 1 •---------------n•---------· Seniors- find out what Kearfott's flexible training program offers You . Check the experiences of four '59 graduates at Kear/ott Not at all sure of the area of engin~ering {develop· ment, desigri, test, manu- facturing) which would Interest him most, Jim has been most Impressed by the way Kearfott Project Engineers STAY WITH A PROJECT from study phase right through to produc- tion, assuming full tech· nlcal arid financial respon· slbility for the quality and salability (price-wise) of the finished hardware. He finds that this Kearfott philosophy enables him .to operate across the broad spectrum of engineer- Ing. • • • Coming from out· of-town, Jim was also pleasantly surprised by the wide choice of living quar· ters readily available. The very advanced ~ature of many Kearfott projects fired this ·engineer's Imagination. He joined the Electrortlcs Systems Lab, where he worked «Jn the development of a tiny counter- part of what Is believed to lle the most accurate test equipment yet devised for missile guidance systems_ After exposure to the diversity of the projects in tfle Sys· terns lab, stan has decided to look no further, .bul re· quested permanent assfgn· ment here, where work ranges over space. navlga· tlon, digital computers, guidance systems, solid state pnyslcs, Industrial· automation systems and diverse electroi\ic·systerns. A GENERAL PRECIS tON COMPANY Kearfott Company, Inc. 1500 Main Avenue, Clifton, N.J. A su.beitliaruofGeneral Precision Equipme_nt Corporation :: .. · len Is pleased with his silt months' experience at Kearfott on two widely dli- ferent counts: FIFst is ,the combination of both theo- retical and practical know- how he hils gained in a field that has fascinated him for a long time- tran- sistor applfcatlons. ihe other is· Kearfott's loca- tion. Finding midtown New York only 40 minutes away by car, len, a veteran, Is planning to continUe His studies for an MS at one ofthe many colleges In the New York/New Jersey area: Columbia, N.Y:U., Stevens, Newark College of Engi- neering are all close by. This semester, Len has enrolled for two Kearfott sponsored courses taught . at the plant. GARY WOI;RNER Newark College of Engineering '59 Gary has worked by choice In two laboratories since he joine-d Kearfott last June- Astronautics and Electronics. He values the opportunity he had to work· In direct contact wlth ,senior engineers and sci. entlsts who have played a leading .r.ole In developing the Ke·atiott inertial systems and components which have been selected for application 'in over ao aircraft a tid 10 ·major missile systems. Gary now leans to the choice of a permanent assignme~t ·In the Electronics Lab but has decided to work a few months in the advanced Gyrodynamics Divlsio~. bli· fore coming to a decision. Opportunities at Kearfott are ex~tanding Long occupying a unique position in thedields of electronics and electro- mechl\Pical components and p~·~cision instrumentation, Kearfott -.in recent yel\rS- has-moved more and more into the. development of complete systems, This has lead to major staff expansion at all levels, including a sizable·num• ber of positions for recent graduates in all4 major company units: The Systems Division The Gyrodynamics Division The Biectro-M{!chanical DiviSion The Precision Compone1!t Division Through its flexible T~AINING PROGRAM, Kearfott offers young engineers freedom to explore the. field, before selecting the broad area best fulfilling individual interests. Remarkable rapid professional advancement is possible- and likely -through the PROMOTION BY l\1ERlT POLICY. For detailed i,nformatfon, see the Kearfott representative on campus. ON CAMPUS lNTERV·IEWS~FEB.RUARY 18 FOR ASSISTANT PROJEGT ENGlNEE,RS Make an appointment p.ow with your Placement Director, or write to Mr. Francis X. Jones. Th VOL. ding dent' Coun will to fil tem: The first At thi posal disctu; In ' of th cil tend to f undet TherE propo raise< a gro counc mitte the I subm befor Th• was 1 to se was legal Coun coun use · \to worl< also.' Co LtJ D Lub Pro] busi of den· Cou on~ rua: Lul call: witl ber pub the ary P1 half co-c Ste' as r core me~: outs Ush will gatl are vesi If c eyei ent and E gan the ina rus bee tail for Lui pre ad€ stu div C!L'l ). the due its sid rus tiel 1 Col v e· tl a 0 t: d ·VI

12, 1'960 On Hi-li&'s will Chapel. The couple and alone will The Ibid for be held on arded to the the only engage the and ghal.'ge request for l.'eports went However, rrnan of the had a reply; at the a meeting I didn'.t, but a meeting be- ng/' cted Norman delegate t<l conclusion of Ruth in- a Viae- Student ve a brief talk Congress af- general. to gradu,ate the Boob:store 19, the 6~ge l'ental &f be increased The Book- requested all m 1111 m 111 111111.!: ,... ht - - m 111111111:: You position in s and electro- ts and p~·l!cision rfott -.in l'ecent and more into systems, staff expansion a sizable·num• graduates units: DiviSion Division offers young explore the. field, area best - and likely BY detailed The 'Political 'Arena Page 2.. ·VOL. 89, No. 15 Fraternity date ·lists for t'he , : Winter Weekend will be :print- : ed if they are received not later , than Tuesday evening, Fe'bru- · ary 23. . Lists may lbe dropped off at the Conct.rdy office or the office of the Dean of :Stu- : dent$. MI. lists must be type- written. FQunded at Union College in 1877 SCHENEC·TA:DY, 'N. Y., fRIDAY, :FEB'RUA!RY 19, 1960 Beardsley Ruml Pag& 3 PRICE TEN CENTS Bohemian Ball Lauded Expounds~n By Chester A. Arthur 1 amesF amtly \Even Chester A. Arthur is suppo!ting the Class of '63's Winter Weekend,\ commented W1ll~r:d Grant, p~b­ lidty chairman for this event, as he fm1shed hangmg ---------~-~'->the sign Bohemian Ball around the statue of the famous Union Alumnus . \The Bohemian Ball prom- ises to be the biggest event of the year. This weekend will keep the Class of '63 on the minds of Union men for rears to come,\ according to Prom Chairman, Art Frigo. CHESTER A, ARTHUR Prexy Cites Colley ePlans The theme for Friday evening -is \Bohemian Ball.\ Tlltl Alumni Gym., which will be u::>ecl for the affair, will ·be set up a.::; an Es- 'presso House and the dallc,ng will 'be done ·on the st1ect 111 u·,.mt of ·the Beatnik hangout. The pro- grams for this event, m ;tecpmg with the theme, will h..1.ve a ·bJt of beat prose as wutten by Jon \Kerouac\ Clemens. Entertainment for the dance will be provided by the band of Francis Murphy. ln addition to playing at Governor h.udtefcllcr's Inauguration Ball, he was invited to play at the Governor's Legisla- tOJ's Dinner this past ruesday evening. Trophy To Be Awarded On Saturaay, there will be a snow s~ulpturing contest to be judged at noon by the members of the prom committee and their dates. The theme Wlll !)e \A ::long in Snow\ and will be judged on originality and degree to which the song title is accurately repre- sented. An inch engra·.-.,d trophy will be given to tl•e winning house. In the evening, e:ctertainment will be f.u,rnished by Red Allen and his quintet in Memorial Chapel from 8 to 10. Individual tickets for this per- formance may be bougi1t from Betty Wemple stal'ting on Mon- day. The cost will ·bt.' $1.50 per person. Combination t oL .. ;.ets are to be obtained from l,,_st.men. The freshman prom <.ommittee ha.s emphasized the fact that there will be no drinlting allowed at either the dance or. Fnday night or the concel't on .Saturday night. The Rathskellar l1as announced that it will be open after the Red Allen performance, but not after the Bohemian Ball. 01-~- DormFire Is Quenched

2 .i ; Friday, Febru(,UY 19, 1960 Preview: Red Allen The' 60 Question ·By Lawrence Lentchner For the last eight years Red when he played at Union during Allen has made the Metropole Fall Weekend he chose to bring in N.Y.C. his home base. I first with him a group of inferior mu- caught him a:bout five years ago sicians, men belonging in the when I was just taH enough to \rhy and blues\ class. This pass for eighteen. Stealthily was not only unfair to Mr. Cole, creeping past the doorman, I but an insult to the shtdent body. glanced around the fairly small The musi'c of these men is not room and was immediately strticlt that \far out\ that it cannot be by six ··or seven men stradling on heard, enjoyed and understood a back bar stage blowing. As far by anyone who is interested in as I can remember, the j!l:m in- the jazz scene, whether it be from eluded Cozy Cole, Buster Bailey, a historical standpoint ot• strictly Coleman Hawkins, Red Allen, and an i-nterest in the swinging :::viarty Napolean. Tl1e sound sound. We hope t:hat '!Red\ .Allen wasn't so.phisticated. not' was it will not make the same mistalte red hot. It was warm and hap·py, as Cole did. The Political Arena By. Donald n. MacDonald l'tlblislwd Pliday~ tlu1 in~.;\ tht• !-'•:hnc;l YPfll' hy the SturlClnt Hnd.\ ''~ l_·lltt!ll Cullt:;..:d:, ~·kht·llel·ta\lY, .:'\. \. =\.atwna.l .\d\l'll•:-.JI•h l~l·J•· Jf'..:.f'qta.tl\t•: :-.:ati··~ ;t} .\d\t.·~'J;o;· ltH! ~t•n·k\. IIH'. l'o\lt•i..!t' Pnh- L~hers Heprest•ntatl\'e, -l:!U J.lad- ISUil A\'t.~ .. );, Y. c. J·:olitnnal Of.f.wP, \\'ashhnl'tl ll:tll. I 'r uon <. 'ollt>~e. 1 ~uhl H'alion t li ~ \Jl't', 'I lu: 'l·~uzetlc l'1 ~;;:=;, 331 ;-;t.ttl~ ~t 1-:tllt'lt'd lll tht· ~. ht'· ·w• ta.h· }ln1;1! O'ffiq_• as Set'nnd 1 'I a\' ·:-.la\1 :11 attt\r subsnlption lUc a l'Oi'Y ~ $:.! .l. ~ t•ar dt•li\'t'll'd :ul \ 1\'lJei e in t ht· l\ tilted StntPs SENIOR BOAlLD I'ET,EH J. STEI!'\GLASS '00 ...... Jll 6-:11~1 .......... Editor-In-Chief l::·~~:-:!<L:\\v~'~'\Sll: :~o ......... I~l.li-~1:'~·? ....... Hu~·~~~s.s 1\la~tat.;er I, I '!\I , . :IIA:o;. ,0.0 ............ !.X 3·0, .11 ........ :ll.w.t!;lllg ~.!!!tor .tJ •· · ~1 J t,,\L\ I~ til ............ J•I .; __ .,,,,,. . . .\:--\'•~~\l:i•tf• l·:d1tnr I{ERLlB D. IlL\ TIRUR 'G~ ......... Ill 6-~959 ............. Sports Editor tt ':'\:\ lA J E I JIU ·::·H~ 'li:! . , .... , • Ill li-~J~J;>~' ••.••..•...••. ~t>\\ ~ Etlitur L.\\\llEXl'Eil. Ll·::\TL'Il:\J·:,J: ·c;~ J•J•;·!I;~J ......... Ft•afures l•:olito! J UNIOit IWARD ~l~k l~rugma!' 'GO .. .. • • .. • .. • .. • .. • • .. .. .. . • .. • • .. Photography Editor H'a~· '\f~~~g .~u .. · ·.......... .. .. . . . .. . . . .. . .. . .. . . .. .. ..... At·t Editor Y m 1 ........................... Local Adverllslng Manager Stuart Cohen '61 • . . • . • . . .. • . . . . . • . . . . . • ~a tiona! Advertising Manager ( ;~,·ralcl 1 ~od-\ 'ti:! .............•.............•...• , , • . . ~lake-up Ellitur .. \! thur 1-l. Frtedm:.tll 'ti:! •.•....•...... -··. . . ..\~!·d~tant Fl•atui·eR Ellitni Louis Abelo\'e '62 .................................. Cit-culation Manager )Ia rk .\. I Ialldt·lnum ·,;~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . Exc·hange Editor llullt-da!.-<s .\llt:n 'tiJ . . . . . . . • . • . . • • . • . . . . • • . . . . . ..\!'i~btant :.:t:\\:::: Editol ltli:l'OltT.EJ.t S'I'ASF -l:)hl\ I ~at' I, ).lidmt..·l Hoi :'I Jtd lt, 'Thot11a:-t I Iandt e-\\', )'(P]Yin r:ps~ein, Steven J·~1~en, l'aul l iallant. Hobt.~n (;l•ldl·JtlJt:t!;!, l'harlt·~ t ;uldl'tein, :\lit'hael (for- doll, :'\-larl.;, llaH~Ivlma-1•. ~·):l'h llt·r~hl-i:nWitz, 1-\·L~ll lloyt, l'aul J(H·olls, l~<tl'l'\' h..q.tall, :'\t·Jl l\.it'lllllt.tll, l'dt:r Lt>-f,·ourt, :\latthew Lo\-\enstein, .I(Ihn l .. ttlwt'l-..111, }1\JIIn.ld .\.la~·Pitll.tld. Llo~d :'\Unl··li, Jue Palornhi, Italt•h l'ala!-ot.'i-., :-\tl''· t'll 1 'l )illl.ll, « i\t·J•ll l'I illli~. ~te\'t_• Haylllolltl, Thrnllore Hoth· :-:kill, ).1 j, h~h .. l .~.hub. llat•ll .. J ~<'h\\arz .. \lt'!t>tl SomnH·r, Pt.·ter Su~:-nnan, l 1 .L\Id Thur:-;ton, \'~11\ \\ah•Jltine. Bl'~l!'iE~S :-i'i'AFI-' l'eter Ambrose, Steven Fnl'!ol', ,\1 l;allund, Arthur Gellert. Thomas Hall, \'ll'\Or :\'!Uttlil<, l'l'lL·l' :-idl\1' altz, I >a\iu :!.haw. Eu\\ aru Skloot. Hobert :--;]\ l(•Ot. The Chapel Countdown Recent demonstrations of student disapproval with noon chapel progt'ams })l·ing to light certain shortcomings of l.'nion's assembly pt·ogmm and dramatise the need fo1· a 1·e-examination of the system. Such an analysis must commence with a survey of the objectives of the assembly pt•ogram. The primary aim of any \chapel'' program should be the provision of an opportunity for the student body to expose themselves to the lectmes ~md concerts that are an inevitable feattmi! of a liberal eclucation. Less obvious but more practical considerations include the assurance of an adequate audi- ence so that guest speal{ers will not be insulted by an embarrassingly meagre turnout. Whatever goals a11 assembly program should have, a mere contest to accumulate a pee-determined number of credits should not be one of them. Yet this is the state of \Cnion's system. as it now stands. While the newly reorganized Lectures and Concerts Committee has done a laudable job during the past sem- L'sler, the possibility of further improvement is stiffled by the limitations of the system. When a student must dwo;o;e to resolve a schedule conflict such as the simul- taneous performance of Handel's Messiah (no credits) and a movie featuring the social life of a cat (1 credit), it is apparent that the assemuly program is failing to meet its primary purvose. yet included subtelties as contrast- Concert Ha.s Possibilities ed to, say, the Dukes of DiXieland. If Allen does not fall into the Personality Exudes aforementioned pit, bhe concert- Henry \Red\ Allen •has never goer can expect muGh when he 'been a great Influence ·on con- enters Memorial Chapel. He can temporary music. He has never expect to ·hear a reproduction of been extremely popular. He has an old .style jam, an experience never gone commercial either. which i!3 rarely found in t:his day How then,. has he gotten himself when the emphasis is plac.ed on a name and a permanent gig in modern sounds. He will also hear such a place as the Metrogole? a man who will not only :brashly It is due basically to a personal- swing through such .numbers as ity similar, though not as obviollS, \Ride Red Ride,\ but vividly cry as that of Satchmo or Diz, which out on blues numbers such as \St. exudes into his horn and reaches James Infirmary.\ He will hear the ·listener regardless of the lat- a happy sound, one which wm ter's jazz background. mingle well with previously down- We have one fear while an- ed beers,, and one t:hat will set a ticipating the upcoming concert. joyous mood for the rest of the \Cozy\ Cole is one of the finest evening. Ali in all, .jt should be p.re-hop drummers. However, an enjoyable evening. A Cinema Review \The Mouse That Roared\ By LI'Slie D. Ma.I-rus The following is anoll11-er of U1e CONCORDY'S reviews of sig- nificant cinemllls about t<nvn, The Mouse That Roa.red, cur- rt>ntly appearing at the State Thc>atre, is a moderately funny Anglo-American film, produced in the satirical manner of James Thurber. Although the plot occa- sionally gets bogged down becausE of ridiculous situations, the film's main virtue over compensates for it as it provides an entertaining cinematic experience. The> Mouse, an anti-war theme, pokes fun at a number of aspects on the contemporary scene hereto- fore not considered prime mate- rial for cinematic levity. Among the pompous institutions coming in for their share of deflation by the jibes of satirical attaclt are the State Department, foreign aid, the arms race, motion-picture audiences, and the movies them- :o:elves. Rese!lllbles Guinness Fil!ms imitation of iLl only exportable commodity, a wine. As a solution to this fiscal di- lemma the Fenwickians decide to declare war on and promptly sur- render to the :United States, the solution obviously lieing in the fact that the defeated duchy would now be eligible for the un- stinting generosity that this na- tion customarily accords to its vanquished foe·s. As often happens in life and in the ·best constructed movies a hitch develops. The inconceivable happens when the invasion force, of 20 reluctant conscripts clad in mail and carrying longbows and suitcases, is intrusted to the com- mand of the loeal game warden and hereditary field marshal. This man, an obvious dullard and utter incom;petent, blunders his way to victory. The following is R. discussion od' the .p()tential line-u).) .fol' th.e 1960 presltlential elections. In the future ~he individttal candi- dates and .party platforms wlli be covered in more detaJl. Battle lines are slowly forming for the November election·s. The proce-ss of selecting a candidate is now being carried on within the two major parties, although mot·e- so in the Democrat's perpetual proble'!J?. of maintaining some· sem- blance of unity within their party. This is due to· the fact that on whatever else the conservative and liberal Democmts may ·.dis- agree, they share an almost unan- imous dis!ike of Richard' Nixon. Thus, maintain Ute \Old Pros\ of th!' party, the election ·Can be won· if a middle of the roacler Who has ?ffende~ no large voting gl'<JUps ts nommated. ':):'he choice of the \Old Pros\ would be Stua11t Sy- mington or Lyndon J<Jhnson. Dissention from this view comes from the \liberal\ wing which maintains that in order to win, the party must create an .image and adopt a platform co.nsiderably di.fferent from that of the Repub- licans. If the distinction is not clear, the voters are more likely to return the incumbents t[) ppower. Following this reasoning, the \lilb- era:l\ wing· tends to .favm -Hubert Humphrey, John Kennedy or Adlai Stevenson. For- one reason or another these .men are all con- sidered an unnecessary risk by the Old Guat\d. Republican TlleJUe Static Domestic and Foreign policy will not be a problem for the Re- publicans. They will caru;pailgn using Eisenhower's \r-ecord of peace and prosperity\ as their theme. This should remain an ap- pealing battle cry .until election, barring seri~us trouble fi\om the Communists or a recession at home. The Democrats, on the other hand, cannot seem to form- ulate any united opposition in the realm. of issues. ·On foreign af- fairs the views range ft-om the cerebral liberalism of Adlai Stev- enson to the rip-roaring national- ism of Harry Truman and Dean Acheson. Civil l'ights are cham- pioned by Hubert Humphrey and condemned by James E:::astland. Legislation favorable to labor is launched by the northe:rn Demo- crats (Humphrey backe!\s) who need labor votes and tor-pedoed by the Southerners (Johnson~s sup- port) who prefer a non-union labor force. If these 'Widely diver- gent views can be molded into a unified opposition (therehy ct•eat- ing the most all-1m1bracing \popu- lar front\ in history) they would a·ppear to he unbeata:ble, especially in view of U1e fact that the na- tional Democratic enrollment ·is 14'7( greater than the Republican. Several of the prospective can- didates have ali\eady associated themselves with basic issues. Stu- art Symington, long concerned with defense problems, has main- ta-ined that the administration has allowed the u.· s. to lag behind Russia in military capabiliti'es and in the missile field in particUlar. He charges that the administra- tjon is more concerned with the budget than with national secur• ity. Hubert Hum,phrey has adopted the traditional liberal causes of civil rights, and social welfare. Mr. Humphrey is receiving consid- erable suppoi't from farmers, labor and minority gro-ups. Kennedy Looks tc. Cities John Kennedy has ·decried what he calls \~he plight of our cities\. He expects sup.po:r\t from the large urban areas. Lyndon Johnson hopes lo capitalize on his reputa- tion as majority leader of the Senate. He is cons.idered one of the most astute politicians in Washingto·n. Mr. Johnson has the su.pport' of many Northern con- servatives and the Southern block of the ,party. Adlai Stevenson is the p·a.rty for- eign affairs expe·rt. He i-s by far the overwhelming favorite of the enlightened segment of the party. Ho·wever, there seems to be a per- sonality conflict between Mr. Stev- enson and a large part of the electorate. If one of the other Democratic hopefuls win in No- vember, Stevenson would be a likely choice- for the post of Sec- retary of State. We will throughoat the cam- paign comment on the issue.s and the candidates involved, including a biograph'ical sketch and analysis of the presidential possibilities. ~----~.-~~-.-c;-i~-!i----1 I . REST AURA NT I 1 Specializing in I t Italian-American Food l I 1125 BARRETT ST. ! : ScheneC?tady Dl 6-9744 1 ! 10% Discpunt to Union Men J t Enjoy Our l ~-~i~~:::~~~:~:~~-=~::.s_ Ad\·ocates of the present system are quick to main- tain that :!0 credits is a \reasonable\ number to accum- ulate during a semester. While the collecting of 20 as- :-;embly credits ol' even many times that amount is phys- ically possible, Lhe ''Chapel'' program should be looked upon as a culturally broadening experience, and not as a timedock punching operation. This Jack Amold directed film bears a .sttiking resemblance in tone to the notable series of Eng- lish comedies of several years ago, many of Which starred Alec Guip.- ness. The avid cinemaphile will doubtless remember ·such screen gems as Is There A Doctor In The House and Doctor At Sea, which bore the same breed of English humour as does The !\louse. This unexpected turn of events comes as the result of an inability to cope with the unfathomable ele- ments of the standard New York City guidebook. While looking for someone who is properly authoi\- ized to accept Fenwick's surren- der the grand marshall and his hardy band get lost trying ·to negotiate a crossing of Gentral Park. In utter confusion the foot- sore invasion force march into the laboratory of a .physicist, Where the marshall discovers and impet- uously decides to comandeer a new nuclear device, that makes the H-Bomb look Uke a child's pop- gun. ~--------------------------· Letters to the Editor To the Editor of Concordie:nsis: Although I do not believe Mr. Bruce-Briggs expects anyone to take seriously his ridiculous sug- gestion for for improving student government at Union, as put forth in his letter printed in your paper last week, his llne of thought is probably shared by others on thi.l! can1pus and de- st'rves comment. The role of the Student Council is not restricted to set-ving the interests of \those who are in- volved, active, and vocal in cam- pus life.\ .Some of its functions, sueh as the student discount set\- vice, supervision of the Raths- kellar, and working wHh the Ad- missions office on the problems of selecting .prospec,tive freshmen, aff·ect members of the student body regardless of whethet· their concept of a fruitful college life is belonging to as many extra- curricular activities as possible. Some issues concerning fraterni- ties are not only of interest to fraternity men !'ither. As long as tradition and college officials push the theory that fraternity membership is necessa!'Y for a balanced college life, it seems to me that it is the obligation of the .::oll<'ge administration and a re- sponsible student government to ~ee to it that every single person should be able to be in a fraternity if he wants ·to. But even if an individual doeB not want to sub- mit to pressures to join a fra- ternty. he is still a prospective alumnu,;, and his problems de- serve the same consideration as tho:le of fraternity membe1•s. The appointment of a Dean of Stu- dent.'! is encou.raging in this re- spect. As it is obvious to Mr. Bruce- Briggs that the deficiencies of the Student Council can be solved by dissolving the ~tudent Council, a solution to thn often cited prob- ·lems concerning the fraternity system is just as obvim.ts to me: abolish the fraternities. Since the advantages of fraternities- an active social life, intramural athletic teams, files of old exams, ete.-could be provided in other ways, as is done at some of the foremost colleges, and since the brotherhood suggested by the woi\d fra:tel\llity apparently does not exist anyway, this solution is sensible, although I do not expect it to ·be very popular here at Union, \Mother of Fraterni- ties.\ But perhaps the time will come (which unfortunately may not be until the Brook That Bounds runs dry and the Nott Memorial building comes tumbling down) when a system >O.f student living will be instituted at Union where each student will be judged on his own merits and the word independent will mean something other than the undeserved conno- tation whic·h it carries now. Alan Bensky, 60-61 * o)(· * To the Editor of Oonoordiensis: When the Junior Class Spring Prom Committee began to make plans for this year's Spring Weelt- end it o.perated on the premise that the campus was eager to have, and would be willing to sup·port, a weekend of truly high quality. The Committee decided early in its plans that if it were financially feasible, it wou:ld pro- vide high calibre, :big name en- tertainment on both nights of the weeltend. We did not wish to follow our predecesS'Ors who had sacrificed the quality of one even- ing for that of the other. We have engaged Stan Rubin and his Tigertown Five for the Prom and the Hi-Lo's for the JaZz Concert Saturday night. Our plans are perhaps some- what ambitious, but they are not overly s·o. Of course, there is some risk involved in our under- taking, but It iS a calculated risk. We are planning no reckless gam- ble. By no stretch o.f the imag- (Continued on Page 4) The film opens in the Duchy of Grand Fenwick, a wee ana- chronistic autonomy in the French Pyrenees, whose prosperity is put on the skids by a cheap CaJifornia Return too Hmneland With the bomb, a completely (!Continued on Page 6) H . I I S. H U ROK presents ______ __ I •• I ERROLL GARNER , . PIANIST-CO~POSER . w1!h BaS$ & Percussion. Accomp~nTffle\llt: E .L. Godkin and Liberalism Subject of Colloquium Talk I I I I I I I I I I I I I I - I ALBANY ARMORY FRIDAY, MARCH 4 8:30P.M. BaldwiA I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I i I I I By Steven Raymond E. L. Godldn who immigrated to the U.S. in 1856,. later consid- ering himself a native born, was an idealistic liberal who. tried to create pre-civil war nation. This past Thursday in the faculty col- loquium discussions Professor Keene spoke extensively on the liberal ideas and phil-osophy of E. L. Godkin. Trying in vain to mold the na- tion into his idea of a perfect democratic state by his publica- tion of a liberal magazine and columns in the Daily News and the New York Times, Godkin ul- timately felt America had failed because of its becoming an im- perialistic nation, and exiled to England where he died . Original Views Classical Godldn started out as the classic liberal believing in majority rule and that people were rational. He was considered by Keene to be similar to James Mill in that he was motivated by th.e new na- tion. Unable to \come to tez-ms\ with the groW:h -of In.d~Ulrialism, his retrogressive ideas on govel·n- men policy and land owning de- mocracy represented 19th Century liberalism. The immigration which accom- panied the growth of industry and manufacturing was at first to Godkin over exaggeTated and would have little effect on the American character. He called for measures to bring .about as- similation so they would not en- danger the native population. As more and more immigrants came to the industrial centers and the growing cities, Godkin felt that the ignorant immigrants were us- ing the gbvernment. Looking for remedies he tried to stop them from holding office and later tried to institute a language test to con- fine immigration to English, Scotch and Irishman. Desired Less Suffra~?e A .more basic issue in Godkin's mind was that of restriction of suffrage to curb their influence. He felt it was necessary to instill a trust and cultivate a sense of responsibility to the community. He thus was opposed to woman suff-rage and strongly felt that only those who owned p·roperty and had a stake in the commun- ity should be allowed to elect gov- ernment officials. Since those that paid the ta:Xes -ha;i a com- mon bond, they are best able to allot their money. Godkin accord- ingly changed his a.ttitude when the immigrants and the mass of the population did not coincide with his idea. of an agrarian soc- iety and saw the majority rule only efficient with the peo:r>le who had ,a stake in the community. These REACTIONARY IDEAS OF GODKIN were strongly op- posed and he abandoned ihis feel- ings on \civic virtue\ and left the country. 'Sal~ Van Curle'r's S~he11ec:tacly Tickets: $2.00, $2.50, $3.00 , ~------~-~----------------~ Scotl 'a NOV/ THRU WED, ~-------------• BOTH FILMS Art Theatre IN EJIIG~ISH ON THE STAGE ONE PERFO!tMANCE AT 8:30 WED •• FEB. 24th MIRIAM HOPKINS ·IN THE 11 A Marvelous Play.'' -BROOKS AriClNSON, N.Y. Tlme1 - PRICES, INC. TAX - Orch. 4.~0-3.75 Orch. !:oge; 3.20 Balcony 2.7~ - 2.25 -·-·· ---·--··-----' Friday In th~ the Ur dent 1 lteep a: of ali fied ~ In term lf the! that vjews the st :tnents ization foreigr comm~ phi!OS< tactics ficient forum PlEi, th from· and sl the hi line u1 .the I Comn: to us handf fortm scene tide· i passp meeti tion, .ions· on tl1 domi1 wa!3 itself Fede. <WF: medi tiona suita amm natic pean foun te1111 with istra a tin! 1 w .rewl ISC us~ witl bers pro! of e You Uni tive aca' (Po mal pea lea< the v as ter1 the iha1 inc In eri wh IU, fox Yo thl th: m1 tis he (1! re: kc l d~ 19 te bE sl fc ti q e! -a i< g

1ry 19, 1960 :herehy CI'eat- racing \popu- ·) they would ble, especially that the na,.. mrollment is e Republican. ospective -can- !y associated c issues. Stu- tg concerned ns, has main- nistration has o lag behind .pabilities and in particular. e administra- ned with the ational secur~ has adopted ~al causes of Jcial welfare. ei.ving consid- farmers, labor to Cities decried what of our cities\. 'rom llie large ion Johnson m his reputa- eader of the idered one of politicians in hnson has the .forthern con- outhern block the p-arty for- He i-s by far :tvorite of the . of the party. IS to be a per- veen Mr. Stev- part of the of llie other s win in No- would be a ~ post of Sec- tl\lt the caro- :he issue.s and ved, including tl and analysis IOSSibiJities. ·~--5---l tANT : l 1!1 in 1 :an Food ! :TT ST. I 116-9744 : Union Men I lUI\ j ::~-:~::: ----- .. :R ifflfe'll't: Bolclw!A M. I i I I I ----- .. · ·-----· I ON THE STAGE NCE AT 8:30 l. 24th OPKINS iE RAMA CRI!ICS AWARD )US Play.'' ION, N.Y. Tim•• ~C. TAX - lrch. !:oges 3,20 7~ - 2.25 ~--·-----' Friday, february 19, 1'9'60 NSA: In Vienna :By Ken Hoyt Vast Changes In Colleges Advocated By Ruml Book In the la.te 1940is ap.d early 1950's 'observer-s rather than as official I ,,,,,~~==:~~~~~~-jjjli!!l By :Hans GroC)t the United States National• Stu- representatives, The reports o-f ifll dent Association endea.vol'ed to these persons have substantiated B8ardslt>y RIJ'llll's \Memo To A study by a political science pro- keep alive the hope that students, the o~ginal position of the 11th CollP<ge TrustP-e\ was discussed f<'ssor of his own business. of a]i 11ations might find a uni- :r.of:ongress: lt,ngthily and heatedly at the Mr. Ruml's principal suggestions fied world ovganjzation in the.' Union College Faculty Retreat for reform werl': Internati<>nal Union 'Of Students.; I. The International Preparatory which IWas held last fali. This l. Increase th<' student-facult-y If there was common kno-wledge ·Commlttee ·(IPC) distributed 'l>e- bool• has causl'd a g-r<'at stir, not ra.tio to a normal 20 _ 1 ; it is \shPer that Communist and Wester-n fore, during, and after the fes- only at L'nion, but ai many Slmllll fantasy\ he said to think of ratios views cQuld not be reconciled on: tival a great amount .of informa- collegts across thl' nation. It may 1 1 of 8 or 9--l mean heltPr !<'acllihg. the ~tudent level whil«? govern-· tion containing fabricated state- i<·»w--- .. ~· ,_,___ ..,. have a telling l'if£'ct on th£' future _ , . :tnents manipulated: student organ- ments attributed to important :.:_:':\'-: .•.. !_._;.~ .. =.: .. ~,.-.·· __ ,·_-,\.»·(':'~.·_i\' •. '.':_i.·_·,·.:_:_•_•~.:.·,-· •~ · -, · .,_ ., dewlo!)mPnt of thl' llbl'ral arts 2. In~tltute a ~}altern of flexible I ddT .,;; •. - =' ., class SIZes rant-:mg from lectures izations for the furtherance of per-sonages. n a I wn, names· ego'~'\::'·-''· ·'\'· ~- collegP. - ·--··-- for sevcr-a:l hundt<'d students to fOl'eign policy, there was also the and titles of both groups and in• ,_ . \. ~ commo-n belief that somehoW tl:).e diViduals were used recklessly ~:>/.;f?,.. '- seminars of a dozen or -fewer so phHos<>phical creeds and political and without ·foundation to sup- Beardsley Rum!, the r>conomist, as to mal1e fuller, more efficient tactics ~ould be toned down !)uf· :Port many of these. \statements.\ 001! !Jl f ~!W !\\'!! e~iioiiiiiill\ioiii'ioiioi!!l' ai.>---.., 3 \\\\\\\\\'\\\'~':\\\\':\'~\\\:'~~-- has offered liberal arts colleges a usc of the smaller faculty. II Wh th t . 1 · f \\\\\\\'' plan -for nearly doubling faculty 3 p 1 th h f ficiently to allow an international ' · · en e na wna unwns o ·Now on d;..,..lay m· the libra\\' 15 - the above collection of ll'ttPrs . runt' severe y e num er o C t • · t' · th. Us· f ex · -.- •J salaries without raising tuition. ff d · th b for um for ideas, news, and p· eo- er a1n na tons, · · e · · or - F dri (_'h · s · courses o <Crc , smce e num er 1 f d t · . · d and documents· concernlli;g tlte ~o:mpose1' re c opm. oon In a report prepared for the f h b t f 11 pie, the (5reatest hopes of students amp e, re use o recogmze an : to, be sbiown will be a display made in. conjunction with FoundPrs d t f o courses as · ecn was e u y from nations rich anq poor, f1•ee attend the festival, splinter groups Fund for- the A vancemen ° multiplied not by the expansion of and slav:e, white and black. With wer.e granted official recognitio-n DaY. Education, Mr. Ruml said that the kno.wledge but by subdividing- a the hardening oof the Communist by the IPC, This resulted in the college faculties themselves were sUbject for small specialized line dwring the last years of Stalin, shamefully disorganized iinpres- li-===============================;1 , standing in the way of solving courses. the East European and other sion left by the motley assortment .Di1Jided Europe? hig)ler education's most critical 4. Cut the student's class sched- Communist-oriented unions began of U.S. students wh.o went under problem, that of salaries. ule from fifteen hours a week to to USU!p control of IUS. The the auspices of Festival Commit-· Gre· at' D. ' e·ci·-s·· 0·. ns -- 1960 The average college teacher's twelve and eliminate recitation handful· of .A:merican students. tees In New York and Ohicago, salary of $6,100 must be doubled classes leaving time for more in- fortunate enough to be on the These Committees were not open- in the next several years, educa- dependent study. scene were unable to stem the ly Soviet-oriented, 'but there is By Ian &odgers tors warn, if education is to com- 5. Reduce the faculty teaching tide, in t11e face of failing health, little . .question that tney did not. This. is the first in a series of· she has not significantly reduced pete for the best brains. load to about nine hours a week. pass.port requirements, secret in ~y sense represent -the aspira- articles relating to the Great De-· the force which the Lisbon target The report entitled \Memo to a Mr. Rum! disagrees with the meetings and the like. In addi- ti'Ons and character of the Ameri- cisions- discussions held every Fri- was set to meet. Another factor College Trustee\ has been circu- prevailing prophesies that many tion, the Western European un- can student as he is found on da-y under the auspices of tile to con:sider is that most European Ia ted by the fund to the .pres!- liberal arts colleges face uncert-ain ions were split in their opinions NSA member and non-member International Relations Club, This.- powers find Defense cuts the easi- dents, deans, and li-braries of all or difficult financial futures. on t11e extent and evils- of Soviet ·campuses.' weekls topic was \Divided Europe est way to reduce their- budgets. colleges. In it :Mr. Ruml proposes He contends that a roll<'?:e tbat domination of IUS. The· result Free DisCUJlsion Squelched' -Coope!'ation or Crisis?\ Ian DeGaulle, w'ho is no enthusiast for what he calls a much needed over- can attra~t as many as 800 stu- was that IUS soon estal;?lished Rodgers is the exchange student; \European military cooperation hauling of the college's operation. dent who pay tuition of $800 a itself as a firm ally· of the World ,III. Mass demonstrations of ex- from s~•n<- \-dre·~s Universi'\\ 7 seems likely to use his bomb as an year, will have \large resources\ ~•~ \\'' ... .,. Boards of Trustees, he said, Federation of Democr-atic Youth treme emotional content were and lirfu.gs to t1Iis article a Euro-: exc:use to withdraw more French available if it reorganizes and k . f d t a· . should take away from the fac- (WFDY). Not wishing to im- s 111 ully use o 1scourage sen- \\\\., viewp· oint. forces from NATO; 11,nd Mr. Me- t d uses' all or most of its tuition di • · d' 'd 1 ··~· ulty as a body, the power o e- med\~:ttely form a rival interna- 'ous scuss1on -amgng m JVl u-a s : Elr-oy is talking- of cutting the monies for salaries, and its com- . b · f · t t· 1 sign and admin-istrate the college's tiona! union but desirous of a ,as a asts ·or lll erna 1ona co- ·The theme of this series, which U, S. commitment. curriculu-m. Its departments con- petitive position as comparrd to suitable medium for contact '01>eration. Specia] passes were 'I'he question remains w'hether the larger universities with lar-ger · d f t · t th 1 1 survey-s in turn llie problem cen- stitute a -body of special advocates, among the students o-f the free : reqmre or en ry m 1 o · e c ose Y · ters o-f the world, 8.9 it was ex.- Russia, seeing the West's )Ylaral di- operating costs will be \ad van- nations, U:SNSA and We.st Euro- guarded festival enc osure, the, lia- lemma over atOiillic war, might he said, that has proliferated, vo- tageous\ he says. t f d d - h · -pound.ed by llie first t(}J)ic, is cationalized, and lowered the qual- pean anc1 South .American unions ure o · agen as an speec es m not find that a quick push on the Funds for non-teaching costs founded the f•ather informal In-' the many seminars were carefully . c:learly the struggle between the ground would achieve her object ity of the curriculum. should come from endai\\'IDPnts, ternational Student Conference. planned to allow little time for ideologies of East and We.st. How- -wit:hout :r.etaliation. . He declared that so much of the alumni donations and other with its more permanen:l; admin- critical and free discussion-when ever in Ew·ope today, whatever college's present funds -were being dis · d\d th t t the fu.ture outcome of the German E~onomic Problems Pressing dissipated in wastes in curriculum, sources. •Colleges are not now istrative arm being the Coordin-- free · ·cusslOn 1 · rea en ° making sufficient efforts in these ating Secretariat (COSEC), · eru}lt, groups of planted demon- problem may be, the line between However, important as this methods of instruction, adminis- areas, he adds. Foreign Contacts Fostered While its contributions. to and -rewards from participation in the ISC ha.ve 'been quite significant, USNSA ha;s also fostered contacts with nations which are· not mem- bers of that body. Examples are programs sucb, as the exchange of editors witih the Committee of Youth Organizations of the Soviet Union, exehange of representa- tives and discussion of l(}ng-term academic ~changes wlth ZSP (Poland) and participation in ftJ.r- mal discussions with -East Eur-o- pean and Chinese stud.ents in leadership seminars organized by the Yugoslav Union of Students. strators would shout-down the the East and West is precisely question undoubtedly is, Em·ope tration and use of plant, that no- participants, and the pace of the defined• In fact, the major prob- today is far more preoccupied with body knew what their needs for Trustee Supervision Questioned festival made it different to at- !ems a1'e those of .b.oth a military her economic problems. At pres- new money really were. But, he Many college presidents have tend other events which were tak- and economic nature which West- ent she is divided between the believ-:-s that they are far less than agreed that the curriculum is un- ing pla:ce in Vienna. Perhaps the ern IDurope must solve before sh.e C(}mmon Market (Germany, Italy, the $1,500,000,000 a year often necessarily subdivided but doubt- Communists were haunted by the can present a truly united front Fr-ance, Benelux,) and the Euro- estimated, cd whether substituting tru.stee memories of the 1955 session in to. the East. pean Free Trade Association Mr. Ruml's views were based on for fac:ulty control would be an East Berlin when many Soviet- Mlllta.ry Reevaluation Needed (Great Britain, Austria, Denmark, an analysis of college government improvem<'nt. This treatise they satellite delegates simply left their Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switz- by the late Donald H. Morrison, think, has pointed at a problem delegations and took refuge in Military Elllrop-e is facing a pe.r- erland). This division is not to be provost of Dartmouth College that that's obvious, but not to any solu- neigh~orin:g West Berlin. At any iod o-f change; and the tilne hafl viewed with too much alarm be- makes up one section of the trea- tion. Some of the smaller college rate, the IPC took every precau- com.e- to reevaluate Nato's p-olic:y: cause the Seven by the natur-e of tise. This is supposedly thB first presidents hold that Ruml is too tion against a wholesale defec--- Up to 19-50, divisions in Europ.e, their mutual trade would be un- sweeping; that the charge ap-plies ti(}n in free Austria. backed by U. S. atomic weapons, likely to form an effective union. as France and Germany are sure only to the large institutions, had been considered sUfficient to (For instance, it would be hard to to be leading contenders for that Increasing llie productivity of FreedD;m of Press Violated · hoM a Russian force of 140 divl· envisagtJ !Great Britain an indus- power. teachers is something that a fe-w IV. The Austrians themselves ~id sions, >1-0 of them. in combat read!- tr-ial nation with highly protected In conclusion, what role, past or colleges are already working on no-t remain idle during the event, ness. When the atomic m()nopo-ly agriculture, in an econCimic unit present bas the U.S. in Europe'? with flexible class sizes, television, and .they soon discovered that -was lost, NATO was created to de- with Denmark whose economy is In the past she supplied gigantic and tests that can be graded by freedom of the press CO<uld be ter a. S~Pecific military threat, and predominately agricultural). Rath- economic aid which was directly machine. It is also something that violated by a foreign organization thel'eftlre it was decided at Lisbc:m er, they put the.mselves in a posi- responsible for European recovery many presidents are eager to located on Austrian soil. Report- in 195~ that the target should be tion of strength to bargain with and the founding of the CEEC, solve. ers and photographers were often 65 divisions either alerted ~omen- the Six. and military aid which made Some opposition to Rum! has prohibited from entering festival ta.rily or on one month's not~c~ ~e In fact, real importance lies in NATO possible. In the future the come from faculty members who areas and were sometimes re- reasoning being that one divtslon the political implications of this road lies open for her to- talte the oppos~ what looks like a heavier moved by .physical force. Ped- in defense could retain three In arrangement, should the Six and lead in solving the NATO dilemma, work load. Furthermore, In the dlers of Austrian newspapers were attack. HoWever since it was felt the Seven settle their differences. and to act as a mediator between smaller colleges there is less beaten and threatened when they that the U. S. had S\l~ficient Already the Six have taken some the Six and the Seven for the range of cour-ses and hence fewer came into the ~estival grounds or atomic weaptlns to contam any- ,steps in this direction, but it is go- establishment of European poli- that can be adapted to the flex- _into the living quarters of the Russian attack in Eastern Eur()1Jie, ing to be hard to persuade Euro- tical and economic unity and even ible-size class pattern. MoreovPr, dele:gates. This intim~dation was this figure w~ ~caled down to 30. pean countries to give up !JIIY an Atlantic community. Then a numbers of both faculty and stu- openly done by festival guards and when Bntam got her bomb. sul>stantial measure of sovereignty confident and united front may be dents come to small colleges for wea:ring the official armbands. she Vli-thdrew 25% of her land anil to any central authority, especially presented to the East. the sake of being in small grou.ps. There were also several occas- 50o/o of her air forces. · --::::;.,.======:-:-:=:=:::::==~===-------------;;;:;:;;;:;:;;;=:;:;;;=;;;;;;====;;;;;::=::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~­ ions of American participants .be- 'Today Russia's tactical weapons (Continued on Page 6) match those of the west. :w'hlle. While endorsing these prograiils as positive contdbutions to in- ternational student understanding, the annual Co.ngresses cf USNSA \have rejected proposals felt to be incompatible with this objective. In pa.1:ticul:ar, USNSA has been critical of the partisan objectives which apparently guide both the IUS .and the WFDY. Singled .out for special notice 'are the World Youth Festivals organized by these two groups on bbe grounds that the even_ts are -propaganda. manifestations financed for par- tisan reasons. T·he Festivals were held in Prague (1947), Budapest (1949), East Berlin (1951), Bucha- rest (195~), Warsaw (19115), Mas- ~-------------1. kow (1~57, and Vienna (1959}, • i LACU,I. TYND.EHRAE-LTTL E . _·: USNSA Scorns VieJJ.W1 Festival l Meeting in its 11th Annual Stu- 'i 529 Liberty St. dent Congress in the summer of 1958, the USNSA declined to at- D ft Yourself l.auncfry :For All Your Paint and Hardware Neecls See Us CAPITO·L PAINT & HARDWARE CO. 730 'STATE 'ST. tend the Vienna Youth Festival 0· 0 because Qf its obVio-us l)artisan- I Washers - 25c a week ship ap.d lack of val-ue as a. f{)rum - (Holds up to 10 lbs.) for sincere ·and earnest interna- Large Dryers_ IOc for 10 min. tional !COoperation. .A.t tlhe re- ·~!Holds up to 4D lbs.) quest. of USNSA and several lead- ers of the .A:merican gove1'll.ttlent, Open 24 hours a day - ,a number qf well\info:rmed .Amer- 7 days a week • · Phone F-R 44123 jean students attended. the 19o9 t ,gathering in the role of personal -·----- lb============;;;.;.;!! ~ i llllllllllllllllllllllllllllliJ llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll j 1111111111111111 llllllllllllllllli 1111111111111111! lllllllllllll II lllllllllll = = !==-== For Prom Weekend - - -=_ ~===~ Treat Your Date Right _ = = ~===~ OVERNIG:HT ACCOMMODATIONS -.~==~=-. BEST OF FOOD • • • s DELCJOUS ~COCKTAILS §a - - - - ~ ~ I Hotel Van Curler I ~ ~ - - ~nm lllllllllllllttnammlmn•••n••''''I''Iilllltmatlltllllttltmtnmnt i 11i m•atnultitlttttmlnt!~ntll m ltnntnm•ntln ~- ~ Coming February 29 Hughes announces campus interviews for Electrical Ensineers and Physicists receiving B. S. degrees. Consult your placement office now for an appointment. the West's leader in advanced electronics r----------------------~---1 I I I I ! HUGHES l I I I I L--------------------------~ HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY Culver City, El Segundo, Fullerton, Los Angeles, Malibu and Newport Beach, California; and Tucson, Arizona -

- .. 4 Friday,· February 19, 1960 Letters To 'The Editor (Continued from Page 2) I the heating plant, which I under- ination, except perhaps Concord- stand is soon to be razed). But iensis', could the lJUdgct for the it appears to me that the pur- weekend h~ called a \grat 1 diose pose \Yhich this building shall plan.\ Indeed, had the Con-. serve is a relatively ruiner and cordy's editorial writers giv<?n :this unim·portant issue, for is it not budget a \most elementary\ ex- . true t:hat visitors casually inspect- amination, they should have dis- ing- the campus seldom have time cove!'ed it {a:r less radical than to see the interiors of our col- they claim it to be. lege buildings'? Union Fresh?Ian Sw_imming Tea~ Frosh Cagers Play Siena; Scores Heav!!~o!'L~'!st Rochester· First Contest In 64 Days Swimming for the first time as were Roy Hershey, Willie- Grant Blazing back from the longest siege ·Gf in~season idle.- a unit the Union College 'Fresh- and Ka.t Schnieder. Hershey, an ness on record, the Garnet c;agelings will make their fh·st man team had little trou.ble de- outstanding sprinter, is second appearance since December 16, against the 'Siena College feating their University of B·uf- only to th~ Varsity's Jim Mac- yearlings, tonight, at 6:30 • · · · falo counterparts in an unoff.icial Donald, an<l see·ms a. sure star in p. M. six event meet. the years to come. Gr:ant, a gan a march to the charity stripe ' Taking all slx places, and one breaststroker, is competing for .the By a quirk of schedu1ing, i:Jhe after five minutes of extended In offering a wee.Jieml uf this \\'hat dues concern and trouble third, the freshmen had no trou- first time and his consistently Dutchmen Cubs wilt have ·been play. ble coasting to a 35-15 victory. improving times· will uncloubted- away from competition for a total A 63-50 win over Hamilton pro- Individual winners for the Gar~ .lY earn him a. varsity :position of 64 days. Although Unl'On teams vided the second win for the team, net were Don Banzaf in th·e 220 . next year, and probll)bly mo:ve so- never play during the mid-term After a very slow start the nee- freestyle, Roy Hershey in the 50 phomo!'e Steve Diamond <>ver to examination and vacation period phytes eame alive in the second freestyle, Kal Schnieder in the .other events. Kal Schnieder., who from mid-January to early Febru- half, and al1Jhough · outshot from 100, and Willie Grant in the 100 has .been working out with the ary, a layoff of thi:s duration in the field their 76 per cent record yard breaststroke event. varsity since the middle of Oc- the middle· of the basketball sea- on the foul stripe made the. dif- size and overall cost to the Cam- me great!:,- is the opposition I pus, the Committee realize,; it is have heard exprcsse<l, to the reno- setting a precedent. But we are vat1on of the llbrary's exterior not appeulmg lo the Campus for as shown in the model on display support uf a ··noble exp~rim~nt.\ in,;ide the hbrary. lu the f.irst \\ e ar<' providmg the Student .Place, it b shocldng to me that Body with h1gher .calibre cntt'r- mere ~tudents and professors t.unmcnt than tht'y have oec'll ::;hould even question a plan which onered m years. The Ht-lAJ., aTe has bc•c•n conscientiously and gen- the ftr:;t by name• voce~! bl uup to •·1·ously prepared by the most be presented at a Jazz Cun<:ct·t reputable architectut·ai firm in here at Cmon ·L'oilebc. \\'mnct·s .\nll'nca, .:\lt:Kim, Ylcad & White, ul la:;t vcar·:o 'Pl.tvl>ov .\ll-$tars· uf :-;, w York, and has been ap- All-::>tar· \'ul'al Gr~up· pud, tlw pton·d by the College'\ Board of yuahty anJ type of t·ntel (..tlllllldlt Trustees, a!,;o of N cW' York. The 200 yard meclley relay was tober, will next year face the dif- son is ,unquestionably uJ:J.iqu.e. The ference. The last .game before won by Schniedet·, Grant, Larry ficult task of ::;teppin.g into Ed reason for this -long absence is the cessation of competition,•with Gilman and Hershey, while the Ruth's distance position. due to the fact that the Frosh Rochester, saw the freshmen 2.00 \ard ft·eestyle relay was won played no games in the first two pitted against the best team tlhey J Fro:sh Have P~tential weeks of 1\60 have thus far encountered· th1·s· by Schnieder, Ban21af, Gilman, \ · and Hershey. The only other Backing up these three are Don Coach Witkowski has kept his ,Season. Santos' 31 points and Dutchman to place was Roger Banzaf, Lany Gilman, Harry eharges active during the long rebounding in the Iast few min- Scoville, who tooli a third in the Taylor, Ha:l Hiesler, Rog-er Sea- lull in activity and is hoping the utes of play provided the Garnet a.re lll tllelllSd\'t'S pl t:C~Ue!ll.-:; at (.'a.nrpus f>er~onifies l'rogreSS 220. ville, Bruce McClennen, a.hd div- ·hiatus hasn't dulled his squad's · wi·th the spark they needed. to ers Mo.rrison and Blouke. All of competitive spirit. win. The Rochester game was Fil\St Competition . these boys have the potential to Thus far this season the rresh- undoubtedly the bes~ showc;ase for L'n1on Colieo:;e. \\'e are appealing to tlk St.ude:lt Body for support on Ih~ CL'llL'l't:'te l.Ja.sJ.s uf wh.tt \Ve Those opposed to any exterior alteration of the pt·eserrt library spealt of heritage and tradition, .11c ollt·nn;; tnt:m. nc>t em tilt: ab- and of the fact that for ·many otra.:t ba..;~.> oi ou1 'c'lltUl c.:;umc- thousands of people the familiar The meet, which was held' in compete next year, and should, men are 3·2. The first win of potential varsity talent this year. b · espe · 11 th t\l a·1· b This season's yearling cage ag- etween the varstty events, was c1a Y e versa l e 1 man, e the season ·CU!lle In the opening ..-... f' · f 1 1 ' gregation is a colorful group with, we 1rst competition fol' the o rea va ue. game against Middlebury. With ne~s. and unique \round building'' f . a good deal of promise. Out- reshmen th1s year. Neither Un- Dave Santos leading the way with MeJimites Inactive standing member of the squad ion nor Buffalo had enough fve.sh- 43 points,. to set a season high is pave Santos, former Amster- Budg.-t Bala.tlCt•d ;:;crves as a symbol of Union Col- Muc-h thvugh the Comnuttee ap- lege, and is furthermore a sort p~ecmtes the advance publicity of monument to nineteen th-cen- l·onconlie-n!>is has ;!'ivt>n us. ther·e tury romanticism. ~To this kind :,; ul:t' sta.tement m vour t'<.lttonal of sentin1ental and reactionary to w:;ich 1 t mw;t d~fm1tely take thinking, I can only point to the cXc'<'PtJv:J. A. \most ekmentary\ mevit~tble n1arch of progress and t:xanunatlon of t·he budget ap- impt·u\'ement, whic-h l Ulll con- J.-I ovt\d !or the weekend .by the fident will find support from the Studen.t Tax Cwmm1ttee would many science and engineering shu.w that the cost of the enter- :ltudents at Union. This spirit :am:nt'nt :s ,xpected to be borne uf progress is readily apparent t.y tne sale of 30U combination in all the buildings on our cam- Pro:n-Concert ticl{ets. and 1,200 pus designed to McKim, Mead & •r.dlvJdual uckets, mcluding the \\'hite. This firm's style, although \bvve t>vO, for Saturday night. based on examples of classical .:-:e.th~r of these ;;.,;timates is rec- a1·chitecture, is constantly modi- urd-br~a;.nng ur radical. The fied to make use of every mod- men to run the full schedule of T·he Freshmen, th()ugh, through- and a Field House scoring record, dam high school star, who has a events, and until the Buffalo team out the year nave been ha.ndi- the neophytes squeaked .through 3 con£~:-Y.:..t:v\ and staid\ Tax ern principle of constructio~, C omm1: '\\ ;;.a;.~ed the budget on beauty, and above all, economy. tn.: mJ:..at:\·e of one of it.s mern- I Of all the architectural firms . to, rs. :11:. o·:-; t:ll. '60, who saw' whose work I have seen, McKim, :c.a: t!:e sa:.: of Saturday night :O.Iead, & White seem to come clos- ~\\\:.s alor.e vcou,d make good e..;t to satisfying Aristole's \gold- c:ose to W'c of the proposed ex-· ... n mean,\ and the perfection of pendnure. Cop:e.:; of the approv-: the result can be seen on our own .eJ budget haY<' bt>~n 1n the Stu- : campus in such ·buildings as West dent Actn·:tlt>S 0ff1ce for the past i College, Richmond Hall, the Field ter. days. had the t:d1tor of the: House. and the Schaffer Memorial Concordit>nsis cared to exan1ine' Librar-y soon to ·be erected. them. ::'1-Iodernize Ramee!! Gary Gross T · Vic.e Presid<'nt Class of hus tt is only fitting that the most prominent building on carb.- '61 and Chairman Spring pus, :-;ott Memorial, should be Prom CO'mmitteR. ; clothed in this firm's famous gar- * .,. \'; . . ) ment, and I have no doubt at all To the EJ1tor of Cone.ordi<'n'>ts: i tr.at the plans shall ·be carried A.s a student concerr.t\d w1th · throu~h courageous!,-, despite the the future of our college and of: g'rumolings of those few bitter the architectural harmony a:'1d reactionaries opposed to progress. aesthellc perfection of its cam· In fact. it is my suggestion that, pus .. I have been followmg closely after the crude ,stones of the li- the opin1ons of students and fac- . brary have been covered with neo- ulty members conccrnmg con-\ clas~ical ele~ance, ·a large fund 1 structwn and renovation pro- . 1 should be ratsed, through gener- grams for our campus, which are ous contributions from the alum- both under-way now and are be· ni, students, and faculty, i.p order ing proposed for future ·action. that the same arc·hitectural firm Until now I have not expressed can be commissioned t'O clothe myself concerning the -several the remainder of the college controversies involved, having felt buildings, particularly those crude unqualified to answer most of the 1 and primitive ones designed in mformed and considered opinions 1813 by an obscure architect of I which I have heard and read; little repute, named Jacques However, I have finally decided Ramee. to enter the fray, concerning one of the questions in particular. In the recent past the Concord- iensis printed a letter by a Union student, advocating a carefully detailed plan to c·onvert the pres- ent Nott Memorial Library into a Fine Arts Center when our beautiful new !ibra1-y is complet- ed. I wish to emphasize that I ~ by nq mPans opposed (o the suggestion presented in that letter talthough 1 have observed that the unusual shape and partic- ular layout of the Nott Memorial Building would seem to make it ideally suited to be a practical and spacious new location for ACME Barber Shop 509 UNiON ST. \Where the Service is a pleasure\ Near the Campus l I I I We'll Dance The Night Away linda .•. and I'll buy your Prom Favor at Maurice B. Graubart & Sons, Jewelers, 196 Jay Street, We can depend on their 3 gener- ation reputation. Dave FERRO'S RESTAURANT Specializing in Italian-American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. 4-point average for five ·games ar1ived it was not known if there capped by the fact that they had a 69-68 victory. and who has never been iheld would even •be a meet. no scheduled meets to look for- -In fueir next two outings the to ·below 29 points In a game. Coach Ed Fedosky was quite ward to and with a few excep- Cubs received the short end of Ot]J.er leading lights are Art pleased with the showing of his tions have n<>t lbeen regula.rly exchanges with Hobart and RPI. Frigo, who is second high scorer freshmen. ·Some boys, including working out. They are not a large' The yearlings 72\66 loss to the with 42 poin.ts; Eddie Tyndall, Bruce McC!ennen, were unable group, but perhaps bhe b-est hal- Hobart statesmen came on the with 37 points and 18 rebounds; to make it, and divers Morley anced and with the most potential foul line whe1•e the Orange and Lew Jones, with 29 points and 16 Blouke and Lawton Morrison, <lid 1 . since the pres_ent senior class. Yellow hit for 80 per cent of t:heir rebounds; tall Chuck Deci, who not have. a chance to go because They should g-lVe the Dutchmen tries. The Frosh lost to the RPI is second in rebounding with 20; of the Ume factor. · a strong team. next year if they ' contingent, 78-69, in double over- and Chuck Esposito, with 22 Standouts for the freshmen , all- go out a.gam for the sport. I time play, when the Trojans be- points and 16 rebounds, • • IBM WILL INTERVIEW FEB. 23 & 24 IBM invites candidates for J3achelor's or Master's Degrees to discuss opportunities in Applied Science, Manufacturing, Marketing, Product Development and Programming .. positions throughout the United States. Laboratories and manofacturing facilities are located in Endicott, Kings- ton, Owego, Poughkeepsie, Yorktown, N. Y.; Burlington, Vt.; San Jose, Calif.; Lexington, Ky.; and Rochester, Minn. Corporate headquarters is located in New York, with 192 branch offices in cities throughout the United States. The IBM representative will be glad to discuss with you the type of career of particular interest to you. IBM offers: • Leadership in the development of information-handling systems. • New applications for data processing and advances in computer technology. • Favorable climate for continued career growth. • Opportunities for a wide range of academic backgrounds and talents. Contact your College Placement Officer to arrange an appointment for a personal interview with the IBM representative. If you cannot attend the interview, call or write: Mr. P. B. Hazard, Branch Manager I'BM IBM Corporation 1 Dept. 868 · · P.O. Box 1044 . . . Schenectady 5, N.Y. · · FR 7·8521 · ® • Friday, Ca~ D Ch looks. { In againsi Univer H<mse. Coach mont, I plays in This me tha.t are .ca.u.se tl this Is to take. Thus Catamo· record men's 1 only co for the N()rwicl topped Ga.rnet, tory, st4 statisti! UVM h sources tumble way. The • sizes t~ provide sa.tility eral a jump. 1 the COl also ex UVM. on a n Chll< mount' his' wa ord, I~ off ens• player years. team's plug. Gi'OI excel!; o.vel' l how t pound plays were chagr AS tain. ·1 net , them win, lot J whicl ·higb. the b strik: spirit the betw A. the

, 19, 1960 ta; s ason idle .. ;heir first .a College . arity !:!tripe ·f extended .milton pro-- lr the team.. rt the nee- the second ttshot from cent record 'de the. dif- ame before ltition,•with freshmen ; team t!hey ntered this points and :t few min- the Garnet needed. to game was howc;;tse for t this year. 1g cage ag- group with, aise. Out- the squad Ler Amster- who has a five games been held a game. ts are Art high scorer :ie Tyndall, ~ rebounds; lints and 16 Deci, who ng- with 20; •• wibh 22 ls. • Friclay, 'F~bruary 19, 1960 5 Cagers Face Vermont; Two Wins G.ive :S-wimmers Drop Two Road Tilts ChanceF,?r. .. lf.~!lningSlate Grapplers Take Two In Mid--Season Surge With two wins and a loss this past week, chances look good for the l:Jnion College varsity swimming team to fin- . ish the season with a winning record . .. , ~-------~-- ---- Following wins over ti;\e Univer- . of - Bufialo and Rochester of this the winning time here was UrLiv<=r.sltY, and a loss to New .a. poor 24.8. In the 10() yard free- :style MacDonald powered through. University, the Mermen for a first in a so-so 55.4 time. :hold. an adequate 4-2 record. Com- Ruth, expecting strong competi- 1 ing up -tomorrow will be an away \tion had surprisingly little trouble t · · d H · in the 220 and 440 yard freestyle. 1 mee agamst an Irnpi·ove · amll- events. Highly rated .Sfan Ashare I ton team, and this coming Wed- l()a.fed through two other races nesday the Dutchmen will travel fol' N.Y.U., but w'hen it came time to Middletown, Connecticut to fol' the 440 something must have bren bcithering him because he · c;hanged clothes and sat in the meet Wesleyan. Boclhester Vl~ry Tight ·stands. The only other individual . winner was Howie Adams in the ·.The ~ochester VIctory was 1200 yard breaststroke. 'J.lhe Dutch- slightly tLght<;r than expected. AI- rnen also took the final 400 yard t~oug~ the fmal score was 55-31), freestyle relay, in one of the With five events to go, th: Mer- meet's more .exciting races. Swim- men found themselves behmd by ruing fo th Dutchmen in this a 2&-23 -count. In these last five on were r Lub~tkin Ruth F!anna- events, ~houg~, th~ Gamet roared gan, and MacDon~ld. ' back vnth ·frve firsts, a second and two thirds. Double winners' The lack of Dutchmen dE>pth for the ·Garnet were co-captain Ed ·was shown in that aside from the Ruth, who took 50 the only the 20() ya.rd• in- othev second the divldual medley Mermen could Pete Adasek prepares to pin his adv.,.rsary: his pflorts con- and the 440 yard pick up was in torting he and his opponent into the shape of a prt>1:7Pl. freestyle, a :n d. the dive, which J o h n Lubetkin w a s taken by By David Thurston who swept the Tiecholz. Third Off to a slow start but coming on strong, the LTnion Ohu.ck Marshall comes up to dunk ~ne as big Max Steele looks. on, 50 and 1(}10• free- places w e r e grapplers seek to even their season mark tomorrow style events. In taken by Don · t p 1 S · th t tl 1 tt ' h the indiVidual Crist, Render- agams au ffil a 1e a er s orne gym. By Leslie 1\furrus :Ruth broke the son, Meyer, After upsetting a highly touted~--------------- pool and college Buckman, and Clarkson squad, 17-13, the Garnet ent in two minutes flat. The Gar- In thew first home contest since the J'anuary 9 game against King's Point, the Garnet c:ag;ers will meet the Univers-ity of Vermont tonight at 8:15 P.l\1., in the Field Ho-use. record With an Lubetkin. Soph- wrestlers handed Rochester its net and the Yellowjackets were on impressive 2:32.1 '' om.ore steve fifth straight defeat, 19-14; leaving even terms in matches won, but showing. Swim- Diamond oo.w no the Yellowjackets still seeking the two Union pins made the dif- ming without action over the their first win. ference. t'he .services of weekend. It took a pin by heavyweight This victory, which upped the Coach Witzel, in evaluating Ver- mont, pointed out that \UVM plays in the Yankee ·Conference. This means that they play clubs that a.re out of our league. Be- cause they are such a good club, this is one that we'd really like to take.\ Thus far this season the UVM Catamounts have posted a 5-10 record as opposed to the Dutch- men's 12 losses in 13 starts. T-he only comparative score available for the two schools is against Norwich. The Green and Gold topped Norwich 84-73, while the Garnet, in tallying their sole vic- tory, stopped the Cadets 61-53. The statistics would deem to give the UVM ho.opsters a slight edge, but sources here predict a rough and tumble contest that could go eith- way. The Catamounts attack empha- sizes the drive to center, but is provided with a good deal of ver- satility because of the team's gen- eral ability· to utilize a deadly jump shot from any position on the court. The defensive play is also eJq>ected to be harried in that UVM tends to put the emphasis on a man to man ·system. Chuck Isles, 6-1, Is the Cata- mount's standout ball player. On his' way to the UVM scoring rec- ord, Isles exhibits· gre!;J,t speed on offense, and is the finest defensive player to hit Vermont in many years, A top reboup.der, he is the team's natuTal leader and spark- plug. weekend ·ended as a total loss statistic--wise. Pratt trimmed Un- ion 70-66-, on t:he foul line, and a late Stevens' spurt set the Gat'net cagers l>ack 82-73. In the Pratt tilt the Dutchmen cagers outscored the Cannoneers, 27-24, from the field,. but by mak- ing hay from the charity stripe, the Pratt aggregate garnered their margin of victory, when they converted 22 of 28 .free throws, This was the eighth win i~ 14 starts for the Yellowbacks. ·Coach Carl Witzel's squad shot 27 of 61 for a 44.2 avera.ge, its hest in recent outings, a.s foar men hit double figures. Bob Hol- land an-d John Pelton each scor- ed 14, while Max Steele nit 13 and Chuck Marshall dunked l(}_ butterf;lier Jerry Against Buf- John Caggiano in the final match Garnet's mark to 3-4, followed the Meyer, coach Ed falo the Mermen of the day to enable the matmen upset of Clarkson at Potsdam. Fed o s k y wa.s breezed to their to bring home the bacon to Coach Union dmp,ped the first two forced to change easiest win of Bruce Allison. Stew Cohen got the matches in that one as Steve Span- his 1 in e up at the yea.r by a Dutchmen off to a flying start by cer was decisioned in the 123 the last minute. lopsided 64-20 claiming a forfeit in the 123 pound pound division and Stew Cohelil His medley team score. Sweeping division. However Steve Spencer, found himself pinned at 124. Pete- of Jim IM:acDon- every first place 130 pounds, drop•ped a decision to Adasek. at 137 pounds, managed aid, HOIWie Ad- Dave Hendt\\rson gasps for the Dutchmen Ken McNain, 7-3, as Rochester to sandwich in a decision before ams, Steve Dia- bl'eath after an al'duous race, were paced by evened it up. Union captain, Pete John Perkins was pinned ·at 5:1~ mo·nd, and Dave seniGrsJhn Mac- Adasek, who has done more than in a 147 pound match. The Garnet Henderson was unable to take , Donald and ·Flannagan. MacDon- his share to hold the riddled squad managed to pull this out of the that race, but Scott Flannagan 1 aid, facing the only aer1ous oppo- together. pinned Dave Crellin at fire by achieving the Herculian and Lew -Buckrnan roared back 1 sition of the meet, had to battle 4:25, but John Perkins dropped an task of 'Winning the final four with a first-second in the 220 to, to defeat the Bison's star swim- 8-7 decision to Ye!lowjacket John matches. Levesque, Tewksbury, tie the score. Following Diamond's, mer, Boom-Boom Bob Branagan, Eckert and the match was as and Woodruff all dec'isioned their second in the butterfly Fedoslty in the 5V and 100 yard freestyle tight as a drum. Things really got opponents and Caggiano put the was still five points behind. After events. Scott Flanagan, picking up tense when Rochester's Gardner crusher on the last Golden Knight pulling MacDonald out of the 100 the first wins of hill career, took bested Pete Levesque, 6-5, in the with a pin at 5:16. yard freestyle, he let him go in the 220 and 440 yard freestyle 157 pound class and Dave Tewks- The Dutchmen travel north the backstr()ke, for the first time races. Ed Ruth, swinnning only bury was pinned by Don Haifle, once again to face a Paul Sm-ith Off to a 7-2 lead after two min- in over a year. MacDonald took a once, was disqualified in the 200 167 pounds, at 7:35, giving Roches- team that boasts a 6-1 record 'With utes, Union Jed throughout the first in that event, and with three yard individual medley after he ter a 14-10 advantage. Union need- wins over the likes of Alfred and first haJ.f and were ahead 20-14 at events to go the Mermen were had unofficially bettered Steve ed to cop. the final two matches Oneonta. Coach Allison admits one time. At the half-way mark, only a ·point behind. Following Diamond's recol'd by some six sec- to pull out the 'Win and the Dutch- that he has not been able to find it was tied 28-28 and Pra.tt took Ruth and Flannagan's swee,p of onds. Other first places were pick- men rose to the occasion as Mindy out much about the team, but his over the -lead shortly after the the 440 Diamond and Adams took ed up by Jerry iMeyer in the 220 Woodruff grabbed a 4-2 decision limited reports indicate that the second half started and stayed a first and third In the meet's yard butterfly, Howie Ada.ms in In the 177 pound class and Cagg- Dutchmen are in for a tough ahead the rest of the way. closest race, Leading almost all the 200 yard breaststrol~:e, Dave iano came through with his second match with the officiating of the 'i:'he -Garnet made a b<Jlcl b-id the way, .A(la.ms did not have (Continued on Page 6) straight match pining his oppon- \anything-goes\ variety. with five minutes left, cutting .th'e enough left for a strong finish lead to 55-54, but Bo'b Giraldi's and was narroWly nosed out as all jump shooting and Ed Mazria's three men finished within a sec- foulsho'Oting nailed' the verdicL ond of eagh e>ther. FoU:l calls 1J.urt the Garnet throughout the contest. Pete Algainst N.Y,U. the Dutchmen Houlihan was the only Dutc:bman simply r11n into m~re than they who fo:uled out, but Pelton, Bruce, could handle .. A!thou.gh the final Walsh. a.nd steele were ·all be- . 57-38 score might have been closer, labored with foul shots in the there was never any real doubt as all-important late going, to the outcome of the meet. The The Cannoneers ·sliot 24 'Of 71 only real surprise was Ma.cDon- for a 33.5 percentage, but had to aid's defeat in the 50 yard free- Gi'Ordano, at 6-3, possesses an d t t,.,. f Is · rely o~ the deadly accura.cy from style. This was ue o :>vo a e exce1lent jump shot, and more- ~ t t d b EVERYBODY AND HJS BROTHER LOVES JENNY ... BRIGHT, GOLDEN, THIRST- QUENCH I N.G GENESEE. IT)S BREWED WITH PURE FIEMLOCK LAKE WAIER. AND THAT MAKES THE DIFFERENCE: MAKE YOURS GENESEE TONiGHT~ o.ver he has shown that he knows the 15-foot stripe to hold o·ff the starts that were no s oppe Y how to make full use of his 215 stubborn Garnet. Union did fairly the official starter until the swim- pounds on the boards. Beck, 6-5, ('Continued on Page 6) mers had gone a full lap. Because playS the Center pOSition aS if it :_·ttU.IIIIIilalllllllla•rtlllllllllllliii~IIISIII .. IIIIIII.IIIIIIIIIliiiUlllllllllllllllllllllli1JI~:~ were made for l).im; much to the chagrin of opposition coaches. -~ Down to Louis', let u~ go, ;:.:: .A 85-65 loss to the Green Moun- Let the la';er freely flow. .. tain ·boys last year left the Gar- net with nine wins goi.ri.g for A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere them in an 18-'game series. A win tonight would accomplish a NIC-HOLA••s RESTAURANT lot for Union quint's morale, 'V · · · · which of late has been extremely Since 1895 -Carrier 266 State and Erie Blvd. , high. The change in outlook from the beginning of the year is most Lar\'e parties accommodated in our - striking. The new-found team ::r _ spirit is to a large degree -due to RATHSKELLER the rapport that has developed between the team and their coach. A two-game weekend trip to . • For reservaiions phone FR. 4~8917 the Metropolitan area this past ~••n•••nnu•unu_.ununn•~u•••n•ln• ................................................... ~ Jay Jewel~y 315 STATE STREET Diamonds .. ·• in Belgium. a11.d Imported Savings. . Eliminate the Whol.es aler. Your Importer and .I Co. Arnold Fisher '50 The Genesee Brewing Co., Inc., Rochester, N.Y.

I I \ . ; , I . I \' ;I \' ~ I 1: I I l: I ) ,. 6 friday. 'February 19,1?60 P •1 d • T. tt B k tb ll F t • t • finance them. Fraternity hoUISes, rgress as evidence that the wealth• I e river 0 . ers· as e· , a ' . ra ern1· 1es· as Well aS a;ll other Ca\ml!TUS 'build- ier OOihOOlS had no need of the . · . · . . · . ' · . • • • · : ings, must 'be ap}n'oved: by McKim, schol'arship funds, and· 'Wished C (Continued from Page 5) (Continued fr<>m Page 1) Mead and White of New York Congt~s t() award them to more Onstru t • D ·I d well from the free throw line with. . . City, Official•CoHege Arcbiteci:J;l. needy j.nstitutions. . c l: ·o·n . . e ay·e . 12 of 19 but the seven missed, dorinJ.tories are declared to be ex. At a recent meeting, the Boa.rd . ~nion~s Board of Trustees, · · · fou·ls pr'o· ved too ' cost·!''· Foul : empt from local property taxes. \' of Trustees tabled a motion of the while urging the Faculty and Dr. 'Crowds of Union undergraduates watched with glee calls favored Pratt, 21·11. This pian is understood to be Faculty C«;mncn which l.\equested Davidson to continue their efforts eal'ly Tuesday morning, when a pile driver owned by On the following day the QJar- the outcome· of many months of the Tl,•ustees to refuse any funds' to reperul the Hdisclaimei:' Q!ause,\ h R d C net quintet succumbed to a -late planning between the College. from the felleral government un- t e •8YJTIOn ·Oncrete Pile Company, sub contractor to spurt by Stevens Tech; after lead- Board of Trustees' and the Fra- der the National D'8fense Ed'uca- have decided not to act pending the Hanson Construction<®- . ing until midway t•ht·.ough tche sec· temity Alumni Trustees. tion Act until the ·~dis<ilai'me·r thE)' outcome of a repea.~ bill wh!crh CorpoTation slid off its icy ond half. Dr. Davidson emphasized that cil?ouse\ is remoyed. '·Congress will vote upon soon. wooden base at the bottom For the second straight night there has been no ohange in the. The action of many of the na- Meanwhile, if any Union student of the library excavation pit the Garnet cagers outscored their College's traditional :POlicy of al- tion's leading universities in refus- 'feals <>pposed to \the disclaimer -1 t't] d t · foes from the field but were bur- 'lowin&- fraternities to build indi- ing NDEA money was mislnter- provision, he is free not tQ accept anu l e OVel' a a precari- ied on the foul line. Union had Vl'dual ·]1ot1Ses·lf h. te'\ ar·e able to t d b b f 0 . . I . · , pre e y some mem ers o. · on- the monl:)y. OUS ang e. 31 field tallies to Stevens' 'f!,'T. Because a pile driver has little The host team connected on 28 power to move on its own, a crane of 39 from the charity stripe to was called and ca:bles were strung sec1,1re its mat•gin o:l' victory and to right it. By afternoon the pile registered its 11tb win in 1'5 starts. driver· was returned to its base Union had only 14 chances kom and was again operating. The the stripe and converted 11. incident occurred as the 152nd pile Hurt 'by the loss of its big men, was about to be driven. Chuck Marshall and Max Steele Norman 0. Hanson. President on fouls in the second half, the of Hctnson Construction Corpora- Dutchmen saw its early'lead evap- tion, stated that th<' incident orate at the 30-minute mark as would probably caU><P a one day the Stutemen f()ught an uphill delay in the pil<' driving, but would battle to deadlock the count at not affect the college financially. 5Z.52. \C'on\truction is mo\'ing along Johnny Pelton, who paced the according to srhNinlP and I see' Garnet with 22 points, helped the no particular complications,'' said· visitors build up early advantages he. at 10-6 after five minutes, 17·13 A total of 199 pile,; was to have at the ten minute mark, and .39-30 he<'n driven hy Thur·,;day, but at haJf time. · Tue~dnv's df'lav will move thP With Ma-rshall playing a.n out- completion dat~ to the close of standing game in his new posi- work I<'riday. Next step in the tion as corner and outside ·man, con.~tnretion rs tht• pour·ing of the Shown above is the piledriver and Steele, turning in another fine· concrl'le foundation which will working 011 the Schaffer Li\' effort in the pivot spot, the Gar- probably proceed next wt·ek. brary. The angle is accurate, net appeared to have the situa- tion well in hand . . _ ... 0 Rushing. 0. Swinlming . . .. rContinued from Page 1) '('ontinued from Page 5) ~ihility that the Lubetkin system would encourage what was term- Ht•nderson in the 200 yard back- ed \an informal pledge period\ :<trokc. and Eric Tiecholz in the during the rushing period. It was dive. For :\!eyer, Henderson, and also feared that the freshmen who Tiecholz these first places were participated in the \informal their first in collegiate competi- plr>dging\ might themselves serve tiun. Both the medley and free- to rush other freshmen on behalf style relay teams had no trouble of their pre-maturely chosen fra- winning. ternity. Present chances for a winning After lengthy consideration, Lu- season depend on the next two betkin summarized his proposal meets with Hamilton and Wes- hy cnlling it \a dC'ff'rred bidding, !t·yan. Although the Dutchmen rarified rushing plan.\ In response will be slight favorites both times to n rPquest by a Committee-mem- they are going to have theii'- work bPr to \see where we stand,\ Leo cut out for them. Dunn conducted an opinion ,poll on the Lubetkin proposal's specific Hamilton, traditionally one of points as well as its general con-. the weakest teams in the state, siderations. Opinion seemed to be has im.ported a tremendous group divided as to the length and dates of ft•eshmen and will have three of the rushing period, and the outstanding swimmers, and plenty Committee a.pprared to be gcn- of depth. Distance star for the erally in agreement with the pre- Continentals is Junior Lloyd mise that frat<'rnities would be Jones, Whose times thus far have a:hle to retain thPir independence equalled Ed Ruth's in the 220. A and intPgrity under the Lubetkin good distance man, Jones will proposal. The Committee agreed, probably swim the 440 and final however, that they would neither relay. Freshmen standouts include officially endorse nor reject the Wally Warner and F. Fitzpatrick plan. but would confine themselves Mohl. Warner is an outstanding at least in the immediate future sprinter and will pose a. real pro·b. to discussion and possible revision hm to MacDonald in the 50. Mohl, of rushing plans submitted to perhaps the most versatile mem- them. ber of the Hamilton team, \vill Dunn announced that the ne:d pose a real problem to MacDonald Joint Committee meeting will be in the 50. Mohl, :perhaps the most held on Wednesday night, Febru· versatile member of the Hamilton ary Z.1 at 8:30 in Chi Psi. team, will probably go in the indi- vidual medley\ and the backstroke. N. S. Au .. Hamilton seems also to have plenty of de;pth and all indica- (Continued from Page 3> tions are for a close meet that ing attacked because they were will go down to the final relay. distributing non-festival litera· Here the Dutchmen will perhapo~ ture. have slightly more <>n paper, but This has been no more than a the meet and race could go either superficial presentation of the ob- way. ' servations of observers of the 1959 The Wesleyan meet, also away, Vienna Youth Festival. Both will be this coming Wednesday. USNSA and several independent Meeting for the first time, reports American organizations have pre\ seem to indicate that the Mermen pared extensive reports on the have enough freestylers to win in Festival so that a course 'Of ac- the final relay. Problems that Fe· tion may better be charted when dosky's crew will face will lie in the next session gets underway finding a man to go the 100 yard in 1961. A most pragmatic con- b tt fl if M Mouse .•. (Continued from Page 2) unreliable device resembling a cast-iron football, thP F£>nwickian army retul'nS in t:rlumph to a land confidently expecting defeat. The scene when the gleeful ·popu- lace turns out to hail Its conquered heroes and ingratiate itself with the e:x:pected occupation forces ·Of- fers a superb picture of the Fen- wickians' emotional res·ponse t<> the anticipation of complete and utter defeat. Now that the victory has been won the film traces the nervous efforts of Grand Fenwich to re· pudiate it, While the frantic emis- saries of the great powers try to worm themselves into the good graces of the newly omnipotent duchy. The .scene at the border when the dignified emissaries of East and West convene to await audiences with the prime minister, is a hilarious vehicle for pointed comments on the present world politica:l scene. The script by Roger MacDou- gall and Stanley Mann is adapted from the novel by Leonard Wib- berly. Peter Sellers makes a regal if somewhat zany G·1·and Duchess, in the film, in addition to portray- ing the sly prime minister, and the droll, incompetent Grand Mar· shall. Other members of the <Jast are David Kossoff, as the beiud- dled scientist, and J'ean Seberg, as his attractive daughter. Funnier than the actors, how- ever, are the wisecl'acks and ridic- ulous situations. The film's hum- our ranges from brief touches of extreme subtlety to elaborate bouts of out-and-out slapstick. Whatever the filn's weaknesses the mere fact tha..t this film is able to tantalize a.nd tickle your mental self makes this one a m.ust. elusion would be that the mil• u er Y event, · eyer is not back in action. Besides this event, lions of dollars <the total figure which is different frolll the New RFoUN ·u.~nD THdE has never been released) spent York State race, there is a good on this gigantic propaganda event poosibility that the individual reed- would have been more usefully ley won't be held. This would applied to a project to assist in leave Diamond and HendersonH th meeting the pressing educational open for other events. At any rate . e a· r needs of the many developing · areas of the world. the line-up is not definite and will . · ___ 0 ____ proba.bly not be made u,p until the All men inh>rested in playing team arrives in Middletown. STOWE'S GREAT SKI DORM Freshman Lacrosse are requested ,----------------. to rPport to tht> Field House at Warm, casual, glowing with good com- 4:00P.M. on Monday, March 7 . panionship, the Round Hearth's th( lodge to rest and refresh yourseif. All frat.PmitiPs ar<' request.ed to submit histories to the GARNET TU!'sday, February 23. L. G~ BALFOUR 00. CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFrS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS • KEYS MEDALS - TROPHmS Write or t:all Fraternity Je.welers 171 Marshall St., Syracuse, N.Y. Phone Gra.nlte 5-7837 When /11 New York Vi.riJ(!Uppp 14 E. 44th St. • New York 17, N.Y. MUrray Hill 7-0850 Hearty fare, dancing, relaxing around the famous circular fireplace-it adds up to fun! Only $6.25 a day with two meals, $40 a week. Write for folder or Tel. STOWE, Vt., ALpine 3-7223 DIAMANTE Restaurant an·d Bar Visit Our. New Dining Roorn A Plac:e to G.o to Relax Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott St, Open Daily 10 to 3 A.M. · Sundays 5 to 3 A.M. WHAT D'YA HEAR IN THE BEST 0 F Gl RCLES ? a r II· { • aroun Smooth as a puck on ice! Schaefer beer has a smooth round taste. , . never sharp 1 never flat. Man, that's beer ... REAL BEER! TilE F.& M. SGHAlFER BREWING GO.; NEVI YORK and ALBANY, M. Y, G· Dec Pa VO'L, 89 N.( Def Seg \If \ be serv• down a1 one NE Carolim verbaliz had fir: Greensl store h last F1 movem• to 9 ci1 It .all 1 ary 1, v North < Technic: entered in the l: bought down a1 snack. Accor dispatcl sation E they WE kitchen knowy here.\ \ignora their r~ Thes waitres \I'm colored \I 1 Frankl ton, \~ counte1 that yc and de: stop sE ters.\ Tbr.e The: until t Then, prosec· utive c NAAC NAA Sit:npk office Equali heard to des« rant, Gorda Green The trigge demor South. gets cha.inf the F. Ace repor1 ilar p: stores They and I ters i 'ThE in st down troub were <Botl rceiv• down ~ Ha the « ClosE \Clos Safet \We the l Afi men1 Pain Co. s coun Nos Tb Cl'OV\ hec~ taile Conj they fade In elba· ing ~ and TI aro1 Dli~ Stu< pasf \.ay;t tain atte equ:

d9, '1?60 the wealth• eed of the nd· wished :m to more Trustees, lt'Y and 'DT. heir efforts 1er ~Jlause,\ mt pending ,\ bill which upon soon~ ion student disclaimer )t tQ accept ~II· ld G-reat Decisions Page 2 Sex Patterns 'Page 4 Founded at Union College in 1877 VO'L. 89, No. 16 SCHENECTADY. ·N. Y., .FRtDAY, PI;B 1 RUA!R'Y (26, 1960 PRICE TEN CENTS N.C. Negroes· Defy South's Segregati9n \If we can stand up and be served, why can't we sit down and be served 1\ asked · one Negro coed at North Carolina College Durham, verbalizing the thought that had first stirred action in a Greensboro, N. C. variety store two weeks ago, and by last Friday had sparked a movement which had spread to 9 cities in 4 states. It all began at 4:45p.m., Febm- ary 1, when four freshmen from · North Carolina Agricultural and · Techpical College in Greensboro entered an F. W. Woohvorth store in the heart of Greensboro. They bought a few articles, then sat down at .the lunch counter for a snack. Acc()rding to New York Times dispatches, the following conver- sation ensued. The students said they were approached by a Negro ldtchen woman who said, \You know you're not supposed to be in here.\ She later called them \ignorant\ and a \disgrace\ to their race. The students then asked a white waitress for coffee. \I'm s9rry lbut We don't serve colored here,\ they quoted her. \I beg your pardon,\ said Franklin McCain, 18, of Washing- ton, \you just served, me ·at a counter two feet away. Why is it that you serve me at one counter and deny me at another. Why not stop serving me at all the coun- ters.\ Tbr.eatened With Prosecution The four students sat, coffeele'ss, until the store closed at 5:30 p.m. Then, hearing that they might be prosecuted, they went to the exec- utive committee of the Greensboro NAACP to ask advice. NAAOP President, George C. Simpkins contacted the New York office of Congress on Racial Equality (COREl; since he had heard of their· successful attempt to desegregate a Baltimore restau- rant, the aoiRE•s field secretarY Gordan S. Garey arrived in Greensboro the next day. Founders Day Celebrated SC ApprQves Beatnik Ball Tonight; Change 1 !1 Allen Stars~ Tomorrow Tax p Olley . By Uoyd Nurick • By steven Eisen \The ticket sales and enthusiasm demonstrated by A motion to change the the school point to a very successful weekend,\ stated financial policies of the William Riffle, ticket chairman of the Class of '63's Win- Student Tax Committee in ter Weekend. regarding profits made on -----------~·-@> A lavish Bohemian Ball tonight with Espresso House, a snow weekend entertainment was L M H ll sculpturing contest tomorrow passed by the Student Coun- . • eO • a . afternoon, athtetic meets with cil at its Tuesday night Trinity, Harpur, and RPI, clim- meeting., on February 23. ·To Succeed axed :by Red Allen and his quin- tet in Memorial Chapel at 8 P.:M., Walter Casey, chairman of with fraternity parties following, the Tax Committee, pro- Prof. Sm;th all combine to make this \Win- posed that, \the Student Iii ter Weekend of 1960.\ Tax Fund shall receive one quarter of all profits under $100, one third Qf all profits between $100 and $500, and one half of all profits over $500, from all college enter- tainment unde1·written by the Student Tax Fund.\ The motion, which required a two-thirds vote, was passed Shmvn · (left to right) are President Oarter Davidson· Dr. ~orris E. Fuller, recipient of the degree of Honorary Docto; of Science; Hon. Edward ''Bob\ Bartlett, who received an Hon- ora.ry Doctor of l.a{ws degree; and Rev. Willard Rice, who re- ceived an Honorary Doctor of Divinity degree. Alaskan Senator Bartlett Honors Sheldon ·1 ackson By Mel Epstein Sheldon Jach:son, class of 1855, missionary, educator, and pioneer in the Indian territories of the West and Alaska, was honored today at the Founder's Day Convoca- tion in Memorial Chapel by Edward L. Bartlett, Senator from Alaska, Willard Rice, Presbyterian mintster and Morris E. Fuller, Medical Missionary. Union's annual Founder's Day marks the<$•~~--------­ 17-1. Intangible 1\Wney Use(} I The purpose of this proposal . was explained to the gl'oup by Casey. He stated \The Fund is ·composed of money contributed by the students. It is a great r!Jspunsibi!ity of the committee to 1 underwrite a function with what i is really intangihle money. This . is a risk and a burden which the I tax committee is taking. I think I it iS only fair and appropriate that 'Profit making functions help ' us underWrite them safely.\ Casey was asked how much money the Tax Fund hoped to make, and of the college charter, the anniversary of the ~igning first to be granted by the New York State Board of Regents. This charter as well as various photographs and documents relating to Jackson are currently on dis- play in Nott Memorial · Li- brary. onial doctl'ine is finally on its how often losses are incurred. He death bed.\ · answered that the committee only expects to get about $100-$200 a In concluding Sen. Bartlett said, year, since most activities don't \Our vision of the future is a make a profit. In answer to the mixture of knowledge and faith. second questi()n he said, \A good It was this faith that sustained example would 'be last year's con- Sheldon Jackson in m()re than a cert with Taylor and Ferguson. millioq miles of travel. T'() every That lost about $400.\ man the right to live, to work, Carl Valentine, chairman of the to become himself ... this is the Athletic Oomroittee, reported on promise of America, . • . To the a dinner-meeting. attended by Bill Northwest lies a vast land, Alaska, Ketz, and the captains of all the . . . she waits for man.\ teams. Parkinson To Lecture The first speaker, Reverend Willard E. Rice, Minister, Union -..---------------------------- Presbyterian Church, gave the •background of Jackson's life. LEO M. HALL Dr. Leo M. Hall, currently a geologist with the New York State Geological Sur- vey, will join the faculty of Union College next Septem- ber as an Assistant Profes- sor of Geology. His appoint- ment coincides with the re- tirement of Professor Ed- ward S. C. Smith who has been a member of the fac- ulty for 37 years and the head of the Geology Depart- ment since 1925. Tonight's Bohemian Ball, strict- ly lnfoi\!Ilal will be held in the Alumni Gymnasium, and will fear ture the band of Francis Murphy. who has played for sevel.'al official state functions. \It should be in- teresting to see what type of cos- tume will be worn by a certain group of faculty members,\ stated Freshman Class president Lawton Morrison, referring to last year's faculty surprise. It will be re- membered that when questioned as to why they had worn Renais- sance costumes to a Roaring Twenties ball, the faculty reply· was, \We didn't know which Roaring Twenties was being re- fel'red to!\ · At noon tomorrow, a 9\ trophy will be awarded to the fraternity having the most original and ac- curate representation of \A Song . in Snow.\ Athletes Perform The UnJ.on-Trinity swimming meet will be held at 2 P. M., while at 4 o'clock a basketball game Will be held in the field house against Harpur. At 4:30 there will be freshman wrestling ·match against RPI in the Alumni Gym. Red Allen \the :Man from Metro- pole,\ will entertain UniQn jazz fans in Memorial Chapel from 8:00 till 10:00 with his own inimitable style of music interpretation .. Tickets for the weekend 'have been sold out in many fraternity houses, and nearly sold out in all the 1·est. Weekend tickets will be so.Jd tonight at the door for the regular price of $4.00. Tomorrow night tickets will also be sold at the door fOl' the jazz concert at $1.150 per person. The Greensboro demonstration triggered off a number of similar A complete profile 'Of Sheldon By Alfred Sommer demonstrations throughout the Jackson willlle found on page The doctrine that \su.bordinate figures in a bureauc- Dr. Ball, a native of Potsdam, N. Y., received his undergraduate training at St. La.wrence Univer- sity and earned his M.S. at the University of Cincinnati. He re- cently completed three years of graduate work at Harvard Uni- versity, receiving his Ph.D. de- In addition to the regUlar sched- ule, 'W:RUC w:lll be on the air all weekend, and the Rathskeller will be opened after the jazz concert. South. The movement's chief tar- 3 racy multiply at a fixed rate, regardless of work to be gets. were two national variety done\ is known as Pa1·kinson's First Law, and wjll be the chains, S. H. :Kress and Co. and the F. w. woolworth & eo. stores. topic of this semesters \All Union\ lecture t(} be pre- According to New York Times The next speaker on the pre>- sented in Memo1·ial chapel on Tuesday, March 1. The reporters, protests followed sim- gram was Dr. Morris Everett Ful- guest speaker will be C. Northc.ote Parkinson, after whom ilar patterns. Students entered the ler, class of 1939, a medical mis- the law was named. ~-------------- Once again, the prom com:mittee is reminding the students that there will be no imbibatlon of in- toxicating sp·irits at either the Bo- hemian Ball or Red Allen's per- formance. sTthores and reqfuesalted food service. ~~~~~~e;o .. ~~u~~~~e ~· ~~~~~ Doctor Parkinson's law, first II ey met re us s in all cases a,ppeared in the London Econ- &·A·d • d t th 1 h ian missions.\ He said \there is .-.. remrune a e unc coun- omist. It now appears In a ·boolr, t i il t t t. a tremendous need fOr Christian ers n s en pro es bearing the same \tie. ·Th t\ f to m missionaries today\ because with- \\ e reac 10n o s re anagers The \law\ ·is a satire on Bu- in such instances was ·to close out them the primitive civiliza- d tions of the world \will not have reaucracy, in all its forms. It ap- own lunch counters and, When plies to business, government, and gree there last June. Was Field Geologist Dr. Hall has been working for the State of New York since Jan- uary of this year. He has pl.'ev:i- ously spent several summers with the Vermont Geographig!ll Sqrvey, and during the smpmer of 1954 ·served as a field geologist with ---o·~·--- troubl d 1\\ d b b thr ts a clear concept of God.\ e eve __,...e or om ea social committees wi. th equal val-~· were received, the entire store. The principal speaker, F.i:on Ed- idity. He shows that although his <Both Greensboro vru·iety stores ward Lewis Bartlett, senior sena· law is rigidly folloWed, and by no 1 Bill Proposes Youth Corps~ the Newark Mining Company, Limited, in New ·Foundland. Be has taught at both Harvard and the University of Cincinnati, A new biU has ,entered Congress rceLved bomb threats a1;1d closed tor from Alaska, after apologizing means intentionally, it is both a down last Saturday.) for not appeari~g in his parlta, serious defect. as well as a source Attracted White Hecklers then discussed \the future of of humour. He does not offer any Hastily painted signs, posted on Alaska.\ He explained that constructive criticism, but 'Plenty the counters read: \Temporarily Ala:ska is a country with a dl· of downright satirizing. Closed,\ \Closed for Repa,irs,\ versified climate, with ·moderate 'The law in its broadest apjilica- \<Jlosed in the Interest of Public· temperatures in Fairbanks as con- tioh, asserts that in a bureaucl'acy, Safety,\ \No Trespassing,\ and trasted with the frigid Arctic if A hires subordinates \B\ and \We Reserve the Right to Service wasteland to the north. \C\, and B decides (which ·he al-l the Public As We See Fit.\ ' most always invariably does) that I After a number of establish• Cites Individuality he needs subol'dinate ''·F\. ments ·had shut down in Hig.h Senator Bartlett in comment- Encompassed within his law are Point, N . .C., the S. H. Kress & ing on Alaska's individuality said several axioms, including: Co. store remained open, its lunch that \the greatest contribution 1~ Perfection of planned layout counter desegregated; ~e secret? Alaska can offer is herself:\ She is achieved only by institutions No stools. is a different kind of state with on the point of collapse. The demonstrations attracted a different outlook on life. S.ne 2. Age of retirement sllould not croWds of whites. At firat the has ibeen reputed to have tbe .be related in any Way t<> the man hecklers were youths with duck- most efficient constitution of all whose retirement is under consid- tailed haircuts .. Some carried small \the 50\ including an intelligent eration, .it is his successor who Confederate battle flags. Later handling of the conservation bears watching. they we.re joined by older men in problem. \We ·believe,\ said Sen. 3. Work expanc'Ls so as to fill faded khakis and overalls; Bartlett, \that. Olll' 'Conservati-on the time availa-ble for its comple- In a few cases the Negroes were record wlll 'be better than the tion. elbo·wed, jostled and shoved. itch- federal government's. We assume According to Professor Satnson ing powder was spr'ingled on them a new responsibility towards oul.'- 0. A. Ullmann, Publicity Chairman and they Were spattered with eggs. selv,.es and towards you ..• .'but of the Lectures and Concert Com- The demonat rat i on s have there cannot ·be a first class mittee, \the lecture is not design- aroused action on the part of Alaska without a first class Amer- ed for economists, but for .people Duke University, whose Women's ica.\ • Alaska at present has only interested in the foibles of mod• Student Government last week 5 of her cities connected by road,. ern government.\ Ullman went on passed a resolution expressing and only :1:% of her hydroelectric to say that the lecture is \ \sy;mpathy for the attempt to at- power has been developed. Sen. ily humorous, and won't m.a!te too tain justice\ aind urging every Bartl. ett declared that since her .··1 much of the serious implications.\ atte!lllpt. to be· .made to re-ach an statehood Alaska has \no more , At present M1•. Parldnson, a na- equitable solution. absentee managers and the col- ·uve of England, holds the Raffles A 28 year old resident of Sche- under the sponsorship of Repre- nectady, Dr. Hall is married and serrtative Henry S. Reuss (Demo- has three children. Be is a mem- crat, Wisconsin), and Senator ber of the Geological Society of Richard Neuberger (Democrat, America and Sigma Xi, national. Oregon). If enacted, it would ill- science honor society. rect the president to \provide for Taught By Two the conduct by a non-governmen- With the retirement of Pro- tal research group\ to ascertain fessor Smith· and the acquisition \the advisability and practicability of Hall the geology department of establishment by the United 1 will continue to be taught by two States of a :program known as the I men. Hall will supplement the 'Point Four Youth Corps', under work of present Assistant Pro- which young citizens :will be train- C. N:ORTHCOTE PARKINSON fessor Philip C. :Hewitt who has ed and serve in programs of tech- ·been a member o.f the geology nical cooperation.\ . . . . . department for four years. . This \\Youth Corps\ would have ?ha1r of History at the Umvers1ty In a recent interdepartmental three main objectives: 1) the ad- In Malaya. newsletter Smith stated \I feel .dition of .technical manpower for He is presently in the United: confident that Doctors: Hewitt \carrying out economic, medical, States as the visiting professor, 1 and Hall will make an excellent educational, and community de- earlier at the University of Illinois 1 1 team and that they will maintain velopment programs\ in underde- and p.ow at the University of Cali- and ·promote the high standards veloped frienclly foreign cuun- forma. >of scholarship which have earned tries;\ .2) \to assist in broaden- After the lecture on Tuesday,' for the Union College Department . ing the understanding iby the pea- Delta •Chl will sponsor an open of Geology the excellent reputa- ples of other nations of the ideals house for Mr. Parkinson in Hale tlon that it now holds.\ and aspirations of Americans House lounge. through close contact with yoll.ng Doctor Pal'kinson, the famous The Photography Club will Americans;'' and 3) \to offer our historian, economist, received his again participate hi. the 3rd an- youn:g people ;m opportunity to undergraduated education at Em- hual Northeastern Photographic serve their country in a stimu- manuel College, Cambridge, and Contest. It is considered the out- lating -way, while broadening his Doctorate at King's College, standing collegiate photographic their understanding of tb.e prob-- University of London. He has event of the year, .Jems facing other peoples and taught at the University of Liver- The contest is open to any col- nations, and thereby helping them pool, the Royal NavaJ College, and lege undergraduate in the North- better to understand .American at Dartmouth College. eastern states. policies and purposes abroad.\ ·

2 Frid~y. Fe'bruary 26, 1960 .,.1t-$E-Dt!vl>. '< I()' Second Missouri Compromise OJnntnr 6 : birusis The Political Arena 0 0 .l'q;<!''\,6Lf:!f\ o;J.,. By DonaJd D. MacDOIJaJ.d Published Fridays during the };tlitorial Office, Washburn Hall, school year by the Student Body Unwn· College, l'ublicatiun Uf- of Unl'!\. Cullegs, 8chenectatlY, flee, Til~ Uazette Press, 334 !'-!. Y. Nattonal Aclvertising Hep- State S( E:ntered In the Srhe- resentative: National Advert is· nectady Post Office as Second This is .another in !t seri,es of budget. He ·Was then named head articles designed to lteep t:he. C'Ol- of the National .Security Recourses lege community infor;med on the Board, and ·subsequently took on poli'Q~ races for presidentiaJ the job of cleaning up the chaotic nmrn!nations. The author here ing Service, Inc., College Pub- Class Mail Matter, subscription hshers Hcpresentative, 4~0 Mad- lOc a copy; $2 a year dt•llvered deals with, the prospects of Sen.ar Reconstr!lction J:cl.nance Corpqra- tur S'turu:t Symington, DemoCil'at, tioh. Symington then moved into from Missouri. politics, He has won every elec- isu11 Ave., N. Y. C. anywhere in the United States. ' SENIOR. BOARD . PETER J. STEINGLASS '60 ...... Ill 6-7149 ........... Editor-in-Chief LANCE M. BARASH, '60 .......... Dl 6-9959 ........ Business Manager PAUL L. WOL.L..'\lAN '60 .......... EX 3-0i.94 ......... Managing Editor ROBERT J. GAL\' IN '61 ..... , .... Ill G-~OI'; .......... o\Bsorinte Editor LESI,IE D. JIIARRUS '62 • , .. , ••.. DI 6-9959 , ..... , ..•• , . Sports Editor HU:O.:ALL> K lH{USi:-:1 '62 ........ Ill o-99·~ .............. :\ews Editor LAWHBNCE H. LE:o;TCH:O.:Elt '1!2 Vl u-n~3 .......... Fc•atures I~ditOl The Big Picture The Second Annual College Editots' Conference which was held last weekend at the 'Overseas Press Club in New York City was devoted almost entirely toward convincing the editors present that the explosive events which are occurring with ovetwhelming rapidity on the interna- tional scene are worthy of far more consideration by the college press than they are now receiving. That an entire conference should be devoted to such a subject is merely another indication of a growing concern developing in the United States that the American college student has be- come so seriously divorced hom the world about him that he may in·evocably damage the future position of this country in international affairs. The American college community has, in a great many cases, unwittingly established itself as an isolated island in an otherwise pulsating envi1·onment. Instead of broad- ening the student through an educational process, the American college may very well be creating an artificial and highly absttact academic world in which the student happily considers the theoretical problems, and solutions to problems, occurring· in the universe, with little regard to the factual world. Yet ce1·tainly once the student loses interest in reality and becomes concerned instead purely with academics, he sacrifices a large part of his ability to influence the course of human events. It is imperative, then, that the American student be pulled out of the all-inclusive shell formed around him by many colleges, and develop instead a better understanding of the forces which are reacting on the national and inter- national level. To effect this goal several organizations have been established which deal entirely with the prob- lem of capturing or creating- a student interest in world affairs. One such organization is the \Great Decisions- 1960\ project which has al1·eady been working on the Union campus as well as numerous other campuses thtoughout the nation. Senator Stuart Symington of Missouri is bolstering his image as the \compromise candidate\ for the Democratic party. Many Dem- ocrats are now leaning to:wa;rd Symington ru;; the -inan \best able to hold the party together until election.\ Senator Symington's main asset, strangely enough, is not a record· of positive achieve- ment but rather his lack of seri- ous liabilities. Hubert Humphrey is \too far to the left\ ranking in ·southern esteem ohe notch 1oW'er than <;:-eneral Sherman. Lyndon Johnson is tqo closely identified with the rich Texas oil interests Communist China Defined Great Decisions -- 1960 By J. D. Ticlmor . and the Southern segregation block. John Kennedy's youthful appearance and Roman Catholic- ism may hamper him, and Adlai Stevenson is a two time loser. This is another in a series of ly a major factor in blocking re- articles relating to the Great De- form and unification, but Chiang cisi'ons discussions held every FriL. had begun his downhill slide be- day under the auspices of the In- fore the war. The Kuomintang ternational Relations Club. T.hls government ruled as a central weelt's topic was \Red China on base of power, extending its lnflil.- the March-What U.S. Action?\ ence by the grace of ad hoc alli- 1\lr. Ticlmor is a.n authority on ances With provincial war lords. Communi'.st Chinese foreign pol- Chiang may blame the Ja;panese icy a.nd expects to publish several war for his downfall, but the real papers on this subject. turning point was his failure to --- nip the Communist movement in My remarks are directed, not to- China when it was young and ward an examination of what the .feeble. The history <()f Communism United States might have done in in China does not parallel the his- the past to affect developments on tory of the mo·vement in Russia. the Chinese mainland, but rather When the ·Communists toppled the toward the isolation and definition Kuomintang in 194!) they were a of political patterns and processes tough and experienced organiza- of Communist China. tion. They did not attempt to in\ Syml.ngkm Thoffensive Senator E!~mington,, on the other hand, is inoffensive to bpth Northern and Southern Demo- crats. His voting record on Labor and c.ivil rights has been certified \100% correct\ by the Americans· for Democratic Action. Bailing from .Missouri, a border state, he does not overly antagonize the South. Symington has never taken a diehard stand on any controver- sial issues. During the pel'iod when !McCarthy was running loose as the leader of the nationalist lunatic fringe, Symington averted many chances to expose him, pre- ferring the safety of silence in- stead, even to the point of absorb- ing the nickmame \Sanctimonious Stu.\ Mr. Symington ro,se to promi- nence as Secretary of the newly formed Alr Force in 1947. He re- signed this post in 1950 protesting dangerous cuts in the defense tion since with overWhelming margins. As Senator he has always been nssociated with the :problems of national .defense, and is generally recognized a.s an authority in the field. .Senator Symington main- tains that the Eisenhower admin- istratiop has alloWed the U. S. to fall behind Russia in military power and the missile \field in pax- ticular. Attacks Budget Balancing He contends that this adminis- tration is m{)re concerned with balancing the budget than with defen<iing the couptry. He has re- ceived 'P()W'erful support 'in this view from ~uch hig:h!y esteemed military men .as General Tay19'1', General Medaris, and Vice Ad- miral Rickover. The issue, now termed \the military gap\ has be- <:ome one of the leading contro- versies in the-nation, ~d shouiQ. the .Communists carry out some' new sensational feat of rocketry before election, \the ruiasle ga.p\ could well become a decis·ive issue of the cam:pa.Iign. If, durin,g the Democratic con- 'I'Cmtion in August, the party is· deadlocked o.r threatens to SlJ'Iit and what is needed is an excellent compromise candidate, then Sen- ator Stuart Symington is theh' man. L. G~ BALFOUR 00. C~RL SO'REN'SEN BADGES -.RINGS - FAVOBS JEWELRY LEATHER .GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS. CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHiES Write or Call Fraternity Jewelers 171 Marsbati St., Syracuse, N.Y. Phone Granite 5-7837 But such gtoups can only be effective if the student first realizes that the extent to which he and his country are to influence both other peoples and the betterment of society is directly proportional to the interest he maintains in keeping himself well-informed and abreast of the events of his world. The modern mobilization of stall Communism o.n top of im- power in China has developed perialism, as was the case in Rus- through roughly three stages of sia. They had matured during the political development, from its interregnum or buffer period and late imperial (pre-1911) form came to 'POWer with extensive through the so-called republican practical political and administra- <1911-49) period to its present tive eXlperience. Peking has ·put Co=unist (1949- ) stage. The this experience to use to bring the essence of the political system of mainland undelj the control of a imperial .China Was its monolithic strong central government for the structure. The political and social first time in ovet' a century. power of the state was concen- ·-------------~----~-·-----· s C' 0 T I A TH~~~E NOW THRU WED. trated within the formal structure Systematically Consolidated \A man's judgment is only as good as his informa- tion.\ of the imperial bureaucracy and The primary objective of the the political process was charac- Chinese Communist government, terized by internal competition according to all indications, is the among the official elite for power same objective shared by other arid position. This describes the Chinese strong central govern- classical model of the Confucian ments, namely the organization, state, which was considerably di- consolidation and expansion of luted and distorted in the late 19th national capabilities. Far from col- Letter to the Editor To the Editor of Concordiensis: Oswald was slowly sipping his glass of scotch whiskey at the bar of a popular establishment that lies opposite the Brownell Gate, when his reveries were disturbed by the loud praises which a young man, seated at his left, directed toward the fraternity system at Union. \Beg pardon.'' said OswaJd as he politely prodded the young man with his elbow. And an in- troduction was effected. He ·gave his na:me as Robert. He is a member of a fraternity whose house fronts upon Lenox Road. He is also a sophomore, an \!.A.\, and comes from Buffalo, New York. He bad already consumed lwo glasses of beer, but he pos- sessed a definite advantage over Oswald w'b.o had downed seven glasses of scotch and was working on his eighth. Oswald suggested that Robert -and early 20th Centuries. lapsing from internal decay, the might profit considerably were he Peldng government is going about Confucian. State Monolithio this procesS' systematically, rapid- .. to resign his membership in the student body and still manage to It is important to note that al- Jy and with impressive success. maintain his residence in his fra- though the classical Confucian The United States faces a G()v- ternity house. This would: state was monolithic, it was not ernment which rules over a quar- a. save him a sizeable sum of totalitarian in the modern sense ter of the human species directly of the word. Traditional society and which affects a much greater money, was characterized by an agrarian number. The Chinese Communist b. remove from his existence based economy and a 'bifurcated elite has demonstrated remarkable the more distasteful elements soci?-1 ~tructure. The social or- cohesion, stability and discipline- of college life, and gamzabon was centered around far more than have Soviet elites. c. allow him to profit, with a the family and the political organ- The Chinese Communist revolu- ·-· minimwn of distraction, from ization around the emperor. Gov- tion Was a .Chinese revolution and his fraternity affiliations. ernment was centralized and auth- the present elite is b~th Chinese \Well ex,plained Robert, \well! oritarian, but not totalitarian. The and Communist. Our policy can• I'm also in college because of line of imperial authority went not help but err if we treat China other reasons. Now take social down from the emperor and .the as merely a large appendage of pressure, for example.\ imperial clan to the bureaucracy, the U.S.S.R. \Social pressure?\ Oswald quer- and .[rom the ll.Jureaucracy to the Breakthrough. Di1ficult ·ed local gentry. The emperor---who The initial difficulty facing U.S. 1 · claimed a mandate· from heaven- \Y es, social pressure,\ replied decision-makers is the problem of had to maintain his authority N Chin Robert. \By social pressure I coming to terms with ew a. through the bureaucracy, w'hich Th t d f c · t Chi mean parents and things. You e s u Y o o:mrnums na always dominated society, Imper- d t 11 f rtm tal know. I admit that a college de- . - oes no a oW' or cOI!llpa en - 1al goverl:!.ihent was a government · t lit' 1 · gree is absolutely worthless to me. of men and not of law. ization m o po · 1ca , economui, I mean especially some one in my social or even philosophical prob- NIGHTLY AT 7 AND 8:45 A true and personal story of five girls in a legal /touse ol prostitution in Japan, DIAMANTE Restaurant and Bar Visit Our New Dining Room A Place to G.o to Relax Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott St. Open Daily I 0 to 3 A.M. Sundays 5 to 3 A.M. Robert told Oswald that he has a. definite hierarchy of values. Somew'here in the upper echelons, running neck and neck down the home stretch, are his girl, and his fraternity house. Somewhere, In the lowest of the lower echelons, are his studies. \If it wasn't for ... <three greek letters), I'd just as soon quit school right n()'W'. The only worthwhile thing about college is my fraternity house. I love my fraternity. I have friends there.\ position. But, well, social pressure. Government Weakened lems. Broadly interpreted, all And if I were to quit school, I'd The·late Ch'ing (Manchu) period China's objectives ai\e p_olitica.l. .---------------------.., only have to go to another one. (1840..W11) was •marred with the For example, the \great'lea.p for- ·t. CI·TY, HALL 1 1 1 Because of social pressure. Par- fangs of fOJ•eign intruders on Chi- ward\ exemplifies Peking's long- ents and things. Why last y~ar I nese soil. On another level, the term economic objective-a \so- t LAUNDERETIE • 1 1 was an engineer. 'Why only last period was one which imperial ciaJized\ and industrialized China. 1 Best Service in Town OsWald suggested that Robert might increase his circle of ac~ quaintances were he not confined tc> the company of his fraternity brothers. Robert shrugged his shoulders and in fact admitted that he had not been able to ma.lte friends with anyone who is not a member of his fraternity. \But I have all the friends I need . .All my fraternity brothers are my friends.\ Oswald discovered that Robert strove t() achieve, each semester, a \minimum\ index. \School said Robert, \is ridiculous. I hate school. The only worthwhile thing about school is my frater- nity house. My social relation- ships. Why the only fellow -in out' house who tries to do :well aca- demically lives off campus, be- cause he can't get aion.g with his brothers.\ Indeed! year . . . So now I'm an I.A. I authority had weakened greatly. This is in essence a political ob- I 529 Liberty St. l mean what the hell . . . The mandarinate was unable to jective, with military- overtones. l 1 Oswild asked Robert if he cope with major· administrative Similarly, the connnune move- t Do It Yourself_ Laundry I bl d ff · t' l't! al men• is a process of modernizing t t wasn't wasting his, or his father's pro ems, an e ec 1Ve po r c • lb t t money. ''Of course not. Every- ,power passed into the hands of ~griculture (and ma.y ISOOn e 1 Washers- 25c a week ~ body goes to college. I mean strong provincial viceroys or \wa;r greatly extended to urban areas as 0 (Holds up to '10 lbs.) t eevrybudy. And besides, I'm. get- lords.'' The central government ·welll, developing a new .ec()nom'ic I Large Dryers- IOc for 10 min. 1 t . th' f f t lost its effective authority and structure, and transferrmg loyal- 1 (Holds up to 40 .lbs.) It mg some mg TOm my ra er- political regionalism charact~rized ties from the family to the state. t nity affulia ... , affella ... , affil- the territorial unit called China. At the same time, the communes I Opel) 24 hours a day ....,.. I iations that I couldn't get any- Th h . rt · t rnat'onal influence They ! . 7 days a week l where else. And besides, thet'e's e er:ttage of political frag- ex:e m e 1 . . • , Schuh I Esso Service 715 Nott St. Come in and Fill Up with the Best Gas in Town mentation was passed on after the stand as an example for other social pressura to contend with. fall of the tM:anchu dynasty. In Asian countries se-ekdng ra.pid eco- ·-----~~------------- .. And my girL Now! My girl. Yes. Jpany respects the· \republican\ nomic development to emulate. lif-=:=:=:=§~=:=:=:================;;;;;;;~~~1 She wants me to graduate. Rela- tionships. That's what are impor- period in Ch~na may be viewed as l'o\':ers Us~ to Ftill Ex.~~~t. tant. Yes. Relationships. Social mere!~ an ~nten~~gnum between Pek.mg uses 1ts total. capab1htles, Pressure. Oh what the hell. I, two re1~s-1m~e:t1:t.al and totalltar- fanned,by an ~gress1Ve ideolo.~, hate school, but we mature and ian. China durmg t?e republican to reahze both old and new d~­ realize that we must do many ·era was ne!'er an 1~tegrated or nese goals: (1) to re-establish Chi- things that we don't want to do. com.'Pact na~10nal e~bty. Mao Tse- nese p_ower and prestige, (2) to re- Every day \ tung and h1s associates grew and estabhsh Chinese control over · . matured during the interregnum. those territorie.s traditionally re- Oswaid . than~ed Robert, and Cblang Kai-shek and his Kuo- gard~d by China as Chinese (in- after b1fY1n:g h1m another be~r, min tang government must be eluding' the loyalty and support of drove him home to his fraterrnty credited with seeking na.tiona1 the Nanyang or overseas Chinese), J:ouse, the one that fronts u.pon unity as a constant goal, but (31) to \socialize\ China, and {4) Lenox: Road. P:rhaps Robe~ was, while Chiang may have had tile to proselytize the Communist ide- after all.. pullmg Oswald s leg. will, he did not have the strength ology. There is some disag:ree- Then agam, perhaps not to effect national unity. The dis~ ment among scb.c>lars as. to tlie Stephen M. ZimJmerma.n, '60 astrous Japanese war was certain- (.Continued 'On Page 6) FERRO'S RESTAURANT Specializing in Italian-American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar P f,zzA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 111'5 BarreH St. Friday; F Ke~ Hi~ Sen at-the ~ Oversea, ruary l ;:;ponsorE Press 'C the Uni Student t:onferel 150 St1 aH part: SpeakiJ Sunday Club, Se the Elser f~iling .t in seekir. declared er's trav' but hOJPe would \t term, be them wi1 James the New conferer. parody tPubli'sb has ofte leading America 1 P:rinb of a sp ond An ference dub b' tor .00: • Ml'. W• a. pro:o intervil Riclmr' seat. crat. Once unrehe a note• guest someti date f· tion. outsta: questic of vie' any), l to ge any VI Seai Lawre the F coe I: Sci en< renee Bro happe tion. Spb were Trum and· nice.' who m:ies~ that meet: othex leade Nb does1 per; Mr. dent ask eo ans'l'l wha1 wha1 was lin o to ~ ·been the tliat all c is tic are to ~ so ( one• bloc saicl the let at c Tru

26, 1960 :uned hea;d Recourses ly took on :he chaotic 3 Corpora- noved into overy elec· !'Whelming ways been roblems of 3 generally ·rity in the :ton maln- !l'er admin- ile U. S. to 11 military ield in pa.r- Janclng is adminis· ll'Tied with than with He has re· >rt 'in this f esteemed ral Tayl9'1', Vice Ad- issue, now 'P\ has be· mg contro- Mid should out somS. >f rocketry ais5le gap\ cis·ive iBsue cratic con- e ·pa.rty is· ns to split en excelfent then Sen- n is· theil; IRCO. SEN FA.VOBS rrs OGRAMS. EYS :>HiEs 11 ·elers •euse, N.Y •. ~7837 _,.._ ... WED. ND 8:45 n Town II vice St. Fill Up Town ~T Food lar Barrett St. Friday; Febr.ua..-y 26. 1 960 ·3 Kennedy, Wechsler Highlight NSA Confab Worthy Sheldon Jackson., Churchman and Official By J\fichael Gordon By Robert Galvin Senator John F. Kennedy w:as the featured speaker at-the second annual College Editors' Conference at the Overseas Press Club in New York City last wt!ekend, Feb- ruary 19, 20 .and 21. co .. • . ,;ponsored by .the Overseas 1. known as the author of the A.ge Press Club of An1erica and of Suspicion, a bonk which de- the United States National scribed Wechsler's experience with Student Assodation the and r~action to the investigating ' comm1ttee headed by the late Sen- t:Onference -was a~tended by ator Joseph McCarthy. 150 Student Ed1tors from. Following panel discussions l:ly, all parts of th.e nation. scores of famous and well re!fard- I Speaking to tlle Editors at a ed members of the professiOnal I Sheldon Jackson might be called an '\homme extrodinait·e.\ 'During his career, he held at one time more positions than are now hPld by thP not-orious Robert Moses. He was man and missionary, govern- ment official and spiritual em- . pire builder. Sunday Luncheon at the Press press, a student panel ·dealt with Cluh, Senator KenD,edy attacked t~e role of .the student in interna- the Eisenho-wel' administration -for honal affrurs. Isabel Marcus, In- f<tiling to mocve .strongly enough tern.ational Vice Presid~nt_ of the in seeking disar.ruarnerit. Kennedy J\!'atwnal Student AssoClahoill, ~e- . declared that :President Elsenhow- llvered a lecture on the· necesslty Shown a.1 10 ve is the renouned Norwegian pianist, Robert er's travels ba.ve beelf\educational of student awareness of interna-. Riefling intent upon a passa.ge of Egge's Second Piano Conct\rto but ho,pe,d tha.t tne next President tiona! affairs. Miss Marcus, \Who· which I1e pel'fonned with the Tri•City Symphony under the di- would \take his trips early in ·his has traveled .extensively in the. t-ection of Dl'. Edgar CUrtis last Tuesday evening, February 23. term because then he can follow emerging areas of the world, ap- --------------------~--------~- lhen{ with action.\' -peared to be exceedingly well in-· Coming to Union as a Sopho- more in 1852, Jackson had trans- ferred from a pt·ep school in Glens Falls. Jackson was described by one of his classmates, :Wr. David Little, in n letter to his .parentR, as \a sobPr-mindcd lad. gh•ing C'lose attention to his college duties.\ At that time, an admissions test was reql,lired for all students plrumin,g to enter Union. It is recorded ori his bill, that he passed this test \with honors.\ Jackson graduated from Union In 1815, standing 11th in a class of 95. He was one uf the speakers at his graduation, where he gave a dissertation on \A Mother's Love.\ James A. Wechsler, Editor. of formed a!bout the activities of the rr:============================ii the New York Post addressed the more vocal international student · Riefling Solos conference Oil :Saturday with a. groups. Ordained W. 1\linistry parody on a press conference. Student seminars on various 1Publi'Shed below.) Wechsler; who areas of the world and addresses has often been called one of the by noted prnfesslonal journalists leading liberal .editors in current rounded out the weekend confer- American journalism, is also ence. Nixo·n Meets the Press The Tri-City Symphony Following his graduation, Jack- son went to Princeton Theological Seminar-y where he was ordained as a minister. His first assign· By -Ba.lph Palasek ment was to follow the route of Sitting almost immediately un- ly, it is difficult t'O postulate an the growing Union-Pacific Rail· der the baton, last Tuesday night, opinion as to the merit of the way, esta.blishing churches along we heard what may h-ave been compof!ition. The Concerto was the way. He journeyed through the finest concert rendered by the well received, but we are curious the Iowa, Dakota and Nebraska City Orchestt•a this season. as to the real reaction of the territories, founding churches as T he first composition prayed audience. he went. His work was soon By James A.. Wechsler E t f h was the \Posthorn Serenade\ by The Concerto is essentially a .recognized in the as or e was Printed belO<W is the partial text I am sorry to give· so brief an Mozart. The orchestra was put- theme with a set of variations made Superintendent of Missions of a speOO>h given before the Sec- al\swer to your qUestion. ting out just what Mr. Curtis and a concluding fugue. The dif- for the Rocky Mountain tez-ritor- ond Annual (JoJlege Editor's Con- Mxs. Craig: Mr. Vice President, wanted, with the exception of sev- ficulty in getting at the heart ies. Called back to New Yo.rk ferenoo at i\h.e ·OversMS Press you said recently that more eral scattered. technical errors in- of the composition, we believe, City he was made the Business ciub by James A. Wechsler, Edi-- schools and teachers were an urg- curred through a minimization of is two-fold. First, the tonal Manager of the Presbyterian tor ill'f .the ::NIDW YORK POST. ent, urgent need but when you rehearsal time. It was unfortun- structure is based on a series of Home Missionary. Mr. Wechsler's presentation was had to break a tie va>te in the ate that an actual Posthorn was telescoped minor thirds, which At ·this point a turning point a parody on a :Meet the Press f th t uff d · h' l'f b t J k men accused of murder, and ·con- vey them to the Sitka court, and then to proceed northward to- wards thp Seal Islands. ThitJ .af- forded me an opportunity to ex· amme tlw scant c·xi:;tiug .schools and also to examine the land there ... \ What Jackson saw on th1s tour gr.eatly dhocl{ed him. He continues: \The native Ala,;- kans at·e una·ble to cope with the effects of the white man's pres- ence. White men brought in whtskey, prostttution, and its ac- companying illne:;ses, and othe1· contagious di:;ca.scs. They ldlled off the Eskimos' main food sup- ply, the caribu . . . To establish schools among a starving people would be of little service . . . hence education and humanity ali'ke call for relief.'' Reindeers Reign Thus Jackson hit upon the fol· lowing plan to >laVe the Eskimos, who we!'e well on the way to be- coming extinct. \First I call for the introduction of Siberian Do- masticated Reindeer as a new fo·od source and secondly, the es· tablishment of schools wht>re the Eskimos could learn new trades and find support in their strug- gles against the .debilitatot·y ef- fects of the white rrian's less ad- mirable qualities.\ Jackson succeeded in getting Congress to appoint the needed money and thus, by the importa- ti'On from Siberia, of the first reindeer on the North American ·C\Ontinent saved the Eskimo race from extinction. With the immed- Iate problem solved, Jackson set out to build the school system to E;ducate this foundling people in the terms of Western Culture. interview, in wlllcn Vice-President Senate, you voted against the key unavailable, or e par s ere upon hearing, the average listen- m · 1s 1 e came a ou . ac son Riclm.rd Nixon. was on the lrot aid,to-education bill. from a plurality 'Of impression, er-who usually relates his music was appointed, in the summer of Was Poorly Paid seat. Mr. Wechsler is a Demo- Nixon: (Why doesn't that dame owing to the \doubling up\ of to the diatonic scale-gropes 1885, as the United States General He soon accomplished this and crat. get a new hat?) Mrs. Craig, r three instruments. C9mposition- about looking for some sort of Education Agent for the Terri- was submitting regular reports to have no apologies to m~ke for my ally, we feel, the \Posthorn Ser- tonal system which is non-existent tory of Alaska. If he went to the Department of the Interior record 'Or that of this admlnistra- enade\ is the epitome of all that 'in the composition. The first Alas1ta, he could have the great for the approval of President Once again NB·C brings you an tion, in the field of education. the composer had to say, for it conclusion is dissonance and un- opportunity 'Of aiding the Eskimos Cleveland. Part of one of these unrehearsed .press conference with From the time I was a small 'boy, contains the irreverent humor der these circumstances, the un- spiritually, by the establishment reports, as obtained from the a noted American. This time our r haV'e •been for it-in fact, only and yet the sincere warmth rep- trained individual feels that the of churches, as well as educa- newspaper \The Alaskan,\ Sitka, guest is Vice Ptesident Nixon, the other day I had a letter from resented in a cross section 'Of composition cannot stand. For! tionally, by the establishment. of Alaslta, shows the manner under sometime:; mentioned as a candi· an old teacher of mine in Whit- his finest symphonies. Witness the second difficulty, we can 1 schools.. Jac~on,. before settiz:g which Jackson was forced to op- date for the Republican u'Omina- tier, in which she enclosed an to the ambivalence in the sar- blame the composer. The piece 1 out ~1th J::ls w1fe and chtl- erate. \Dr. Jackson presented tion. With us tonight are four old report card showing-! hope donie and ,simultaneously benevo: says what it wants to say, but 1 dr~n, 1mmed1ately started a cam- the bill of Miss Lyda L. McAvoy outstanding :newsmen. Their you will not consider this immod- lent expressions which Mr. Curtis too much. The scoring is in a pa1gn for funds, and as a conse- for salary April, May, June- 240 questions d<O IJOt reflec:t a point est~that my record for punctu- and h.is concertmaster mutually sense verbose, that is to say, the quence in. 1887 he got Co.ngre:s dollars; 1 cord of wood for Or- of view (most of them don't have ality was the best in my class, sh;l.red during various passages orchestral part is too heavy, and 1 to set as1de $215,000, a gJ.gantJs lava school-B dollars; janitors' any), :tmt a.re simply their attempt and that she thought this revealed throughout. These men know yet at the same time, the com-j sum ~f money for such a pur- fees-S dollars-total 260 dollars.\ to get a story (without doing just how deeply I had always val· what the composition contains, position has a sense of inevitabil- pose m those days. For his great efforts on the be- any work). ued education. A.nd so I •say to and we feel that they have sue- ity. On Grand Tour half of a people, Jackson received Seated around the table are her, and to teachers all over bhe cessfu~ly divulged its import in The rendition of the Beethoven When he arrived in Alaska very small compensati'On as also Lawrence .Spivack, May Craig <>f lru1d, we Republicans know the a convincing, if not superb per- was a great improvement over Jackson decided to set out on a seen in the same report: \Salary the PortJa;nd Press-Herald, Ros- job you are doing and an apple formance. ilJJ first performance two weeks tour of the Eskimo villages, for General Agent for October coe DrUillmond of the Ql:)risti.an to all teachers. And we intend PreseiJt Novel Composition ago in Albany. Here, we are in which he thought to es- 101.10 dollars-'' Science [Monitor and W. H. Law- to give you all the help we can Klaus Egge•s Second Concerto, aga.in confronted with J!IIr. Cur- tablish schools. He arrived in During this time, Jackson the renc:e of t!Le 'Dm.es. without laying the heavy hand for piano and string orchestra, tis's piercing grin, particularly ob- Alaslta at the first stage of the Missionary was also busy found- Bro<l!ks: 1 see that Mr. Spivack of bureaucl:acy over ypur school- wa.S the occasion for presenting vious in the minuet, (which we great gold rush, when the tre- ing churches among the Eski- happens to have -the first ques- rooms. the American audience something felt was a rather brash interpre- mendous influx of the White peo- moes found time to establish\ tion. !Mrs. cra.ig: But Mr. Nixon- new both in soloist and composi- tation,) and reappearing again in ple was at its heighs. Setting over 100. He also was able to N •~on·. (Can't she ever ·shut ·tion. Mr. Robert Riefling, Nor- the coda of the Finale, inciting out on his inspection in the fol· establish Sheldon Jackson Junior Spivaclt: Mr. VIce President, you ~ • t · .. t t d h\s ( · ?) th t were once very critical of the up?) Yes Mrs. Craig. own (by dedication) concerto, and impressive conclusion. Memwandia on the Arctic Alas- demonstrated his talent as an au- ways op 1nams , presen e 1 or enticmg. e group o an lowing manner, he started in his I College, In Sitka. Jackson also Truman ·Acheson administration Mrs Craig· Do ou t t th t h • • Y - we would ven ure o say a e Even with the few muddy .Imns, Vol. 3. \In th13 harbor at , thor, writing several books and and even sa.id: \Wouldn't it be · · h ld l'k d d'ff t · NQton: Mrs. Cra1g, I s ou 1 e create as many 1 eren opm- patches appearing here and there, Unalaska, early in September, ' reports such as \Alaska and Mis- nic!la< •. to nave .a Secret<>,.,, o~ State t d d th\s · th p r s 1 ·n the • -• o go on an on an on on 1 1ons as ere were e son we feel that the concert was a 1890, lay at anchor the revenue, sions on the North Pacific Coast.\ who will stancl up to the Com- b · t b t I th · d' c t N rweg su Jec u run sure ·ere LS au 1ence. on emporary o • substantial success. cutter \Rush there to arrest two' He died on May 2, 1909. mies?\ Eov do you reconcile other ground- ian Music does not resemble what that with this administration's th. Am · bl' · Ily Brooks: If I may interrupt, I · e encan pu tc 1s usua meetings -with Xruschev· and its ~~ cl t h c ue t other deaJlngs with t:he Soviet see that Roscoe Drumin'Ond has accuswme o ear. onseq n- leaders? a question. Nixon.r (·Wh() is this 'bum~he · Drummond: Mr. Nixon,youhave doesiJ't even work for a newSIPa, said, on more than one ocCJasion, per; who :puts him on tl::!!is show?) that you ·believe, if I can coin a Mr. Spiva<llt, as our great presi- phrase, that politics should stop dent would say, I'm delighted you at the water's edge. But aren'·t asked tlla:t question. I can only 'YOU troubled by the testimony of answer it iby- saying that I meant S'Ome of our defense officials that JIVben In New York Virit(Jil~pp 14 E. 44th St. • New York 17, N.Y. what I sll,jd then, and I mean (Continued on Page 6) what I say IlOW-consi;ltency, it was on.ce said, is the, the hobgab- lin of small ntinds and I am proud to say- tl!ls Administration has been able to see the ibig picture, the picture that truly counts, and tliat is w11y. even M we mobiiize all our .reSources to combat athe- istic materialistic communism. we are doing everything in our power to save the peace of the world so that ..American iboys will not once again have to waste their blood in .Xorea, where, as I have said at times, they were led by the TrUn:JB.l:l-Acheson policy; but let me adc'i as I have also said at other 1irnes that I applaud Mr. Truman's decision to act there-- MOrray Hill 7-0~50 Jay 'lllllllllllllllllllillliii•lll IIUIJI11111il S 111!1!!!11!-11~ ~~~•1111 UU lliiUIIIIIIIIIIII•Illl IIIII§ Down to Louil, let us to,. M. Let tlze lager freely flow. • A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere ~ NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895- Corner 266 State and ~rie Blvd. Large parties accommodated RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 in our. 111111; 1111111111111111111111111111111111111 ltllllnlll ~I illlllaltiWIIII I 1111111111111 Ul I IIIIUI (\' Jewelry Co. 315. STATE STREET DiamondS • • • PUirchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. Arnold Fisher '50 Coming February 29 Hu/ghes announces campus interviews for Electrical Engineers and Physicists receiving J B. S. degrees. Consult your placement office now for an appointment. the We~t's leader in advanced electronics r------------------------~-1 I I I ) l ! HUGHES ! I l I I L--------------------------~ • HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY Culver City,El Segundo, Fullerton, Los Angeles, Malibu an~ Newport Beach, California; and Tucson, Arizona

4 Friday •. february 26. 1'960 Soci?logist, Psychologist. ·A Winter's Tail: V1ew Campus S~x Habtts DELTA :uPstLoN · DELTA cHI Beats .and B,ooze By She11wood Dean Fox 1 By Clifford H. Pearse In to t f Paul C., Judy, Vassar; Flip,, M c ch Vassar· The K. J s L E ·r · \\wetbacl' Fodese Anyw· here· Anthropological'\ note-, with spe- respo_ nse . a reques.. or lliD' k W anager, oa , . . , en, oyce, age.; . ynn, mt y, · . ., , . , ~--• f \'- ps .... chologt- 1 sig Lynn, Stern's; Chuc • ease, Evil Beetle f·rom Mupham High, VcnJc.,,. Flu.,· Maish, Jud''• Sk. ids,·. The Big Boy·, Virgin Mary, Beth- •·iul rt•ft•rt•nct• to .\·m••rican under- \\\\\'ysts 0 ..ue · · ~ ..._.. - R 11 S \' PHI SIGMA KAPPA CHI PSI 'f' f 1 ta.ti nslli[)S .Joisey; Glenn, S:ue, usse · age; Patrick (?),Long- Island.(?); The Oz, .. Speedy, Rochester; Rog, peh-; Iehem; Frogle, Tadpole, The Pond; graduat.·s. m 1001100 0 .sexua re 0 . Ray, Carol, ·co~tiand·. Mi.tch, · d M B 11 1\!I C Stat o th Amerwan oollege canrpus ' But·nseses, Loca.J Yokels; Han s bie, Sage; Jae Daniels, Pat, Louis- :oosB\\ u , oose-' ow, . e; *Anth••opolog,y: the sciE-nce of n e · · . ' Carol, Yates y. 1 ·11age•, Ed· R., ·Patti,. · bbl D 's·h T T' · Dr Clifford Pearse lias sublilltted off Rookie, It's a Rade, ..1\,frica; ville; Whit, Margee, Mildew The Ba er, · oes · e, · oga; ,ls- ~uan, Pmbraclng woman . . R.S. ·, Paul c· ., '!·eiinda, lnst.a.nt E k H t' Old ,.., St ·t The · a hypothetic.al dilsc:us:sion tbat' ., . Ski Champ, General Rommel, 1- · str.ip·; Moose, Bloody Mary, Sun- · a, oy s \ · a e; might occU!' Saturday ·mornhtg in F~ily; Dave, C·onnie, G·reen Mt.; mira. State Prison; Skip rope shine; Mal, Barbie, Sage; AI, :Tu:be, Petunia, Cabbag:e Patch·; his Abnormal !'ersGruility class. Craig, Sue, Toga.; Ponsig, Melo~y, champ; Miss High School, AI~ Boots,. Puerto Rico; Vncle,.Auntie; .'Duds, Tra:nsistor, I.B.M.; The :;orne comments on contempor- ary relations between the sexes, from the perspective of a disin- terestd obser·vet', have been re- quested of .the Vl'l'iter by the edi- tor::; of this weekly. It is clear that a college professor is quite disintereo:;tcd in this matl.,r. Fur- ther, thc~e ub.::;ervution.::; at'e in- spiriteu l.Jy the iuuuel of the great AUlcrk<~.n sociologist, .Mort Sal:li, \1 ho eo.nsi:;t.,ntly aau gallantly J.JUrsues tile lofty goal of offending c•ver·yone. Sex Just a Game t:nuergraduate relations h i p s ~o\\ith the opposite sex are a ilind of gam... Young men and wom!'n rank one another in terms of vari- ous scalE's of excellence <appear- anC'P, personality, ability to con· >'lime potah!Ps. hPing a \good ,;port,\ t•t all- and Pach individual s~Pks constRntly to acquire a r<'putation for high achievement ns measured by the diverse rating scales. Popularity becomes a cher- ished goal, and persons become means to this and related ends. The modes of interpersonal rela- tions become techniques, devices for acquiring those coins Ol' coun· ters which measure success in the game. Thus, a ·person is not so much valued for himself or her- self, for his contribution to a satis- fying and felicitous human rela- tionship, but, rather, for his con- tribution to the accumulation of the other's symbols of success. In earlier periods of our na• tiona! history, and in other soci- eties, relations between the sexes have been part of the processes leading to the formation of new family units. On the contemporary scene, kinship considerations bave becom(! relatively insulated from all other areas of social ex}leri· ence, and so our little game has nothing in common with court· ship. wi:th \\'hich it has sometime.!! bePn mistalteply identified. Can't TE-ll a Lady C'ontri·buting tG this state of af. fairs is the blurr.ing of the former distin<\lion hPtween the role.s of thl' SPXI'S. Young ladiPs arE' now trainE-d verv much as their broth· ~>rs nrP, and hoth SPXes Pnjoy de- gret>s of \frePdom\ that are pnl'al· lPl~>d only in a fpw nonlitf>rate societies. A CPrlain men's college lone of the quality institutions, ranked sixth by some obscure criteria) offer:~ instruC'tivl' data. The mem· hers of ·this tribe are divided into t~vo moieties, unequal in size. The smaller is undifferentiated, while the large!' consists of seventeen clans, or loyalty groupings. Each chn has its own house; members of the other moiety are presently awaiting fulfillment of the mess· ianic hope that a house will be provided for them by a stra.nger called Ska-nach-ta-digh (\beyond the pine trees\). giving them the equivalent of a clan house. The clan house is significant in relation to elaborate rituals per· formed on the occasion of the periodic \corrobbori\ to wllich clan members invite young fe- males from neighboring tribes. Lacking a clan house, members of <Continued on Page 6) Home; Ed T., Net.tie, Towme; :bany; Gr•ange, He ·doesn't know, George, Mabel, Fel'ra's; J'im, Ann,. Townie Too! 2nd, Mother, Linton, · Jerry, Carole, The Island; Paul She doesn't either; Horn Tobbs, State; Terry, Sylvia, Sage; Ken,. High School; Pelts, Witzel; Mum- Prof: Who'd like lo start to- G., Daffy, Bates; Jim, Elai1re, Rus- Windy, New York; The Live Gertie, Schenectady; Von, Belle, ni Gjrln·; The Big Pfieffs, Ego, day? .sell's Cage; Pall! S., Bev;, Warm Longer Boy, Joedee, Baltedbean- Celibacy, Vt.; Bob, Ro,. State; Centric; N, Y,; Iconoc~ast, MoQ~e, lll'nry; H nol.JlJdy else has any-. Dorm; Brian. Carol, R.hinebeck; ville; Listen guys!, Listener, John's Bull~ Co., Sin,ew. N. H.; The Templ'e; :Mole, S'\:eet Annte, thing, I don't know if t:his will Corbs, Blind, ?'!?; Max, .. Joya.e, Planet Earth; Marley, Marley's; Annamarie, Flu; Schenectady; Easta Roch.; Lee Marvm, 0. Cald\ inttJrcst anyone, but I was won- Yates Village; Chip, Terr-y, Joisey; Plymouth Rock; NiChGls~ Dimes, Don, Joanie, Sa~;e; P;tddy K., Tho well; ~onkers; Nichols, The :S'!lgle, tll.lriug · do fellow:; IUarry lhe type· Rog, Nancy, l:>).!idtnore; Bo·b, San- Quarte1•s; Sarge, Miss ;Silvel'Ware, Mrs., Pakistan; Dick, Ellen, Blow It; The <;:Jld Lamp Lighter, uf gid they take lo a prom week· dy, Towme; A.l, Eileen, Ellis; Connertikictic; Cigarette ·Man, His Northfield; Hn:l, Mrs. Hal~ State; Cindy~ Y.G.P.M:O.; Cohen., Molly cut!:' Maybe ,;omcbot!y im.s <>oiuc Norm, Carol, .Sage; Lew·, Gigi, Butt, .Ashville; The Campbe)l Dick, Faih, Scheffersville, Ohio; May, Town; Lebel, .Judy, Ca:pe olhel· topic · · • Now11ere; Norm. Lew, Cold Dorm; Kids, Wastepaperbasketville; 'The Jon, Linda, Sage; Boss, The Mrs., Cant; Marback, Myra, ss; Dem1e, Johnny: When the girl 1 a::slled Lew, N~rm, Warm Do•m; Alan,: Bottle, Dean Po)lac.k, Congress- The Pentagon. The Wife, The Puckel'brush; tound out my fraternity wa:s at Marilda, Santos; Dud, U. C, Bo.t- ioilal Area; Hermie, Luring Laur- I:i:uml>ert,. Lolita, The Play Pen;- the Y.M.C.A. she said, \Well tie; Jerry, Blind,. Endsvilte; Ted ie, Broeklyporl:; Frederic Chevro- DELTA PHI The Pathfin(,ie~. Chingachg6Gk, really.\ I don't thmk she'd make Joans, Beauty, Village·; Charlie, .Jet, His Wheels, Local Schnlokels; Gt•een Mt .. ; Pppe, Mrs. Pope, Pre a good dentist's wife, anyway. Bar, Bottle; Mik::e, Linda., Cohen's; Itchy, Scratchy, Ellis; King James; Gene, Elaine Bertie, SYra-cuse; Marital Instruction; Melville, The Bob: Sometimes I think mon· Cagg, Liz, Hollins; Dave Z., Terry, Queen Anne, Ballstonville; Handy Hopper, Pam Penny, Garland; White Whale, The Cape; Converse; keys have more fun. But why Troy; Joe, Guey. lfere ·boy; Smith,. Andy, Vlcksy, Cornell'; Steve the Otto, Dehl3ie. Martin, Skidmore; Pants Down,. Inverse; The Teen- doesn't Union get the ilind of pub- Nothing, Nowhere; Ken, Cyndi, ninth Reindeer., Linda, Who ·Keeper of H.C.B., Judy Smith, ager, The 'reenangle, .American Jicity Yale gets? Buffalo; Tom, Carol, N.Y. Cen- Cares.? Tough Twigsy, (E.P.) 2, Kingston B.S.; Hondo, Gay, Skid- Bandstand; Burgie, Roughshod, End,.,·illt•; Horses u 1 e fun for a tral i Joe. Pat. Oneonta; Ray, Cortland; Barfly, His Linton ian,. more; Sim, Pat, Skidmure; .Art, Smith i The Big Jer, Nymphette, whiil'. 1 went to Prexy and a:;lwd ::larah, Alco; l:lill, Girl, SNomufe- Lintonville; Long Haul, Clark Betsy Weinheimer, Skidmore; La- Momsville; The Blob, Vic Tanny, why Union couldn't go coed. where; Ned, ~~tle, ,;etphs; Me ' Bar, Ellis Noises Place; R.C.B. Rocque, P., Goodnow, J., Skid- Muscle Beach; ;'lint, Swain, Eales. Richmond Hall would be 'better ??, ??; Gary, IXll'' •v ... o ~; J ~ III, Inmate No. 43217, Elmira more; Wally, Mary Christian, f · 1 • d G. 1 l'k art .shall, Homet()wnie, Pough .; 0 State Prison. . Y.W.C.A.; R. Fitch., Carol C, Mac- or a gtr s orm. lr s \ e . ' D., Connie, Vt. ·, .At•t, Femme,. West BET A THETA PI d 1 th . k th 'd · te my Laury, Skidmore; Gabe, Bai'ba!'a an m ey apprecta .College·, Snoyl, Ginger, Hunger. PHf GAMMA D'ELTA Q W 1 0 nta Tykie idea for the converted library of • . . Mandel, Demarest, N. J.; Tom ueen, a , neo ; , Nude Ascending the Ramp. iBe- THETA DELTA CHI Ayres, Sandy Lamberton, Home; Lud; Ellis; J'Oanie, Gordie, On- sides, Saratoga is too far. Dave, Francie, Cortland; Art, Grenning, Zittle, Skittle; ]3, Riffle, eonia; Betty, Mock, Cortland; Clyde, Linda,. Sa.ge; Otter, Mar- Judy, B.U.; Pete, Charlotte, Texas; Cordette Bocklet, Marymount Beryl, S and C, The Hill; Phyllis, Jay: What girl would come to sha, Albany Sta..te; PipPiJ}, Eliza- Snork's, l..ilegje, Vassar.; Berge, J.C.; Morley Blouke, .Carole Stein, •Slime, Whitesboto.; Fullbac~ Mus- schoo! with such a lousy fo~tball beth, London; Foxy, Ann, Buf- Carol, Albany State; Rick, ENI- Home; Bruce, Margo, ?; Art Elt-· cles, Via Tanney's; Sandy, Dave, record? falo; Jess, Kitty, Dodge City; Rex, LORAC, Vassar; Farnsy, Nancy, ing, Julie, Skidmore; Hobson, Mar- Wilson; Plain Jane, ·Tarzan, .J'un- LC$: I suggest we get ·back to Regina, Dean's Residence; The Albany- State; Jim, Anne, Vassar; garet, Trenton; John, Carol Berg- gle; Bar-bra, Sam, Oneonta:; the topic; Freud thinks sex is Happy Prisonel:\ Yvonne,. Al-bany Bill, Barb, Cortland; Butle.r, Alice, lund, Syracuse; C. Hoyi, Linda, Fudge, Bill, U. of B.; He~ie'.s, terri!bly-important. Jail; The Mouth, Jan Elga Wnuk, W. Radford; Blanch, Jackie, AI- Home; Kelley,, Louis Denitt, Hart- Big Red Bird, Birdville; Little, Larry: I was attracted to a. girl Higgins Bay; The Sleeper, Sleep- bany State; Gordie, Hllare, St. wick; Poulin, Carol PikGr, Spring- Head; St. John's Convent; Nag, by a horse once. ing Beauty, Lake Pleasant; Bar- Elizabeth's; John, Nancy, Bam- field; Crowell, Barb Dallinger, Trackl3> Lon Gisland; Beautiful, John: I'll have to think about ber, Doe, Catskill Game Farm; burg; Denny, Skip, Vassar; Den- Niantic, Conn.; George Re•ler, Horn)l\ Skinmore; \Honey Rick, that; I have an idea-no, it's gone Say, Hepatitis~ infirmaJ.Yj Wee ny, Skip, Vassar; H. Fred, Heub- Mary Connel', Saint Rose; How-· Heaven; Marge, Rirk, Northamp- ... But I have an~ther one; hGW Willy-, Winky, Geneseo; Smitty, lein, Manhattan; Skip, Rosemary, ard, Arlene, .Sage; C'oop, Char- ton; Judy, Stretch, BHHS; Little do fellows get to meet a girl? I Pocahontas, M:ohawk R.eserva- Co!'tland; Bob, Peggy, Providence; lotte, Albany; Brandner, Joan .Ape, .Ape, Troy, believe the girl should invite the tion; Homer. Satan, Sag-e; Big Don, Jon, A.B.C. Mack, Hartwick. (Continued on Page 6) man to the prom. Dick, Peanuts, Elmira; Coach, Ken: What bugs me is, h()W Nurse, Albany Med.; Abby, Pe- can you spend a whole week end tunia, Skidmore; Pinocbi\ Pork- with one girl? What'-s there to chops, Dolgeville; Mr. Peepers, talk about all the time? Maggy, Adelphi; Thl)lllper, Min- Pete: If you draw a real tu·rltey nie, Disneyland; Trail Blazer, you just walk out. H Paar ~an Luscious Lulu, Brooklyn; Gramps, do it, I can do it. But I've heard Gram, East UpJ>et· Squash; Jacko, that ·a certain kind of girl is real Ethel, Mounteba.nks; Bouncy, friendly. ·Dicky's Delight, Kansas Oity; Fi- Ed: Don't you think there has ancee, Newburgh; Mike, Patsy, been a decay in morals and re- Ireland; Leaky, Gardenia, .Jersey; sponsibility? Jelly, Jam, Jungle; Diamond Jim, Mike: \Veil, I wouldn't marry Plunger, Wells; Tubby, Gina, Hoi- a girl I knew to be hopelessly Iywood; J:vlorgue, The Body, im·potent unless I was sure that Newitt's Funeral Home; Lefty, the coming revolution in sex Wife, Syracuse; Stewe-d, Gypsy standards was pretty close. Rose, Ringling Bros.; Speedy, Poll Dave: Yah, but the main thing Parrot, Vassar; Glynd.on, Bobby, is that a wife realizes that a Doc- Albany State; Batty, Gt.lernsey, tor's first responsibility Is t() his Jersey; The Genie, Charlie Weav- patients. er, Mt. Idy; Babs, Cheetah, Kenya; Joel: When is the U.S. going to Shoim, Beth, Bethlehem; Stinger, wake up and do things the wa.y Hypo, Infirmaty; Goiter, Iodine, . they do in Sweden? Thyroid, N. Y. Ted: When I was in Paris . . . PSI UPSILON Ron: When they abolish capital · punishment and legalize narcotics Gilbert Eleeze:r Orcutt Bell III, and prostitution we'll have .it Little Orphan Annie, Radcliff; made. Congl'essman Hatton is Grapple:r, Alsace:-Lorraine, Packer getting a bill ready. When I was Prep; Clackity-cJak, Jubucllii, The in Washington . . . Pike; Foul' Wheel Friend, Rider, Fred: When I was in Brussels.. . To.ga; Wobble Head, Wagon Sonny: We have some meillibers Wheel, Chevy, Michigan; Ruslin' of the fairer sex with us t<rday. Hugh, North Shore, Woolville; I thinlr we should hear their <>pin- Rooms, Kay Q.T., Burville Tech; ions on ou!' topie of discussion. Mole, No Holds Barred, 'Smith; Kirk: The only way we're go- Heal Em', Slay Em', Mortuary; ing to improve school sp.irit ls l>y Phlem, Barb U:pjohn, Cemetery; deferred rushing. Sneaks, Panties, Wool Town; Endsville: There are r~?B..lly ()nly Boomer, Pooh, Elv:ille; Whop, a few people Who can live ,on M. J., .Colby, Jr.; The G!'eek, Dick the plane of organismic human- Tracy, Bean TOW!l.j ·Sarge, La!>ge ism. Ones, Rye; Cougar, Westminster, <Continued on Pag-e 6) London. • Qlnlleg.e tltu a N etn ~eu.eral a Arrow Oxford Buttondowns -Cile~k your supply ••• t~e average colJege man GWns at J.east ten shirts. He consistently buys oxford cloth shirts with the Arrow label. Reason? Only Arrow offers the authentic, soft .roll eollar, luxurious \Sanfoi'ized\ fabric. Ask for the \Dover\ collar. $$.()0. -ARROW---- Whe~v&r you go , , , you took bet/or in em .Arrow $/ilrt a l .... • . . n , .. r--------------------------------------------------------------- 1 t I I I ~. ·. ~· ·:·.-·. l I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 1 I I • I I I •I I I I I I I I I l tl 1 I 1 l l I I A Campus-to-'Career Case History \I found I could be an engineer -and a businessman, too\ William M. Stifller majored in mechani- cal engineering at Penn State University -but he also liked economics. \I wanted to apply engineering and economics in business,\ he says, \and have some ad· ministrative responsibilities.\ Bill got his B.S. degree in June, 1956, and went to work with the Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania at Harrisburg. During his first two years, he gained on· the-job experience in all departments of . the company. Since June, 1958, he's been working on transmission engineering projects. Today, Bill is getting the blend of engi- neering and practical business-engineer· ing he wanted. \The economic aspects of each project are just as important as the technical aspects,\ he says. \The great· est challenge lies in finding the best solu. tio~ to each problem in terms of costs, present and future needs, and new tech· nological developments. \Another thing I like is that I get full j oh-responsihility. For example, !recently completed plans for carrier systems he· tween Scranton and four other communi· ties which will bring Direct Distance Dialing to customers there. The trans• mission phase of the project involved almost a half-million Clollats-and it was 'my baby' from terminal to terminal. \Telephone engineedng haseverytldng you could as~ for-training, interesting and varied wol1k, responsibility, and real management opportunitie~.'-' Bill StUBer and many college men like him. have·found inter- esting eareeJ's with· ihe Bell Telephone Companies. 'l'b.ere may be a real opportunity for you, too. Be sure to talk with the Bell interviewer when he visits your eamplls~.and read the Bell Telephone booklet on file in you1• Place~ent Office. BELL TELE!PHONB COMPANIES L--~----~----------~------------------------------------~~---------~ ---- Fnlday, ,fE Swi I Dive1 a.ir twist. lng posit Char following the decis able to 1 Jeyan's s stroke ar Hoping 1 lay- Fedosl co-captain events bef• though he unable to Bill White ling 1:01.1 fl:r. .Com1 had to go althoug):l l best time • unabie to Turner. loss in o' petition ii Unitl)n J .Althougl eleven po m their 1: pa.ign to VI .fter Ru1 M!nior Jt ]'lace finiE ;Lyle. ExJ Lubetkin •lespite J J1vo more lost. Co-capt~ to two vi the 5(), a:r in the 4< ~vith a st ~o 'in th~ Dave Her er. Hertd few brigl he turned his faste: Only at the Dutcl age five I)iamond individua: in the 11 by Tiecl:: \nd Lu'bE M Coach: cd with 1 \they jus a.tid we their tim the opln: team wa for the anti-clim: meet, an the Eearr: days and The H the close the year tea.rns Wt lng to w won. Tl f.irsts, fc 'l:Ud siX the exce there w: every ev• second, ' Withal Coach E down tG Fairly c last rela; ing ua> leaving tact. Fe the freE sophc:J.m< take tl:l strokee the tea.J seconds Hamilto Tom: flee to : to go 1 40-30 n: Gnlytal first ei outclas~

ry 26. 1960 .Anywhere; Mary, Beth- le, The Pond; St!).te; Toga; >J;'is- State; The bage Patch; I.B.M.; The Linton Mum• Ego, MoQse, Annie, 0. Cald- The B11gle, amp Lighter, Molly .Judy, Cape ss; Demie, brush; Play Pen;- Pope, Pre Melville, The pe; Converse; The Teen- American Roughshod, , Nymphette, Vic Tanny, Swain, Eales. PI Tykie, Gordie, On- Cortland; Hill; Phyllis, Mus- Dave, ·Tarzan, Jim- Oneonta; Hern11ie's, Little, Nag, Beautiful, Rick, N orthamp• Little 6) full he· nee ved ______ .J Friday, ,february 26, l9~0 Swimmers I.nundated By Wesleyan Depth Matmen Su?iuqate Hobart; Trinity Downs Quintet Post 2nd Wtnntng Season B· ef·ore W· · · ee· ·k· end ·Gam· . e Coming on like a thorobr~d in the stretch, the Union · · · Diver Eric Tiecholz exhibits g-ood' form as •he ex:ecutes a •mid- a.ir twist. Teicholz has developed quicldy after assuming- thP div- iiJg position at the beginning- of th.e season. wrestling team finished their season in great fashion by trimming Paul Smilh and Hobart. The Bruce Allison- squad won and wun~ · ·big as they dumped favored , R . . ·d R b. ·s t ·Paul .Smith, 25-3, and romp- OUU • · 0 Ill · e ed over a hapless Hobart Open·s and. Closes crew, 31-2. · Bouncing back from what ap- Vo·lley· ball Slate peared to be a disastro\js .season, · ' · · . when their mark stood at 1-4, the Union's varsity volleyball team grappler:; pinned th.eir last four w.ill shoot the V>\O rks tomorrow foes to come out on top with a when a season's worth of tl'ain-· · '~-4 final ::;eason tally. · ing will go into the team's only Leu uy captain Pele A.dasek ·match of the season. In a con- ami big John Caggiano,. tho::· tinuous round-robin: tourmtment, · Dutchmen <;Wept through their to be held from H ·oo A.M. to · lust twu opponents with case. The 6:30 P.M., the \V. C. AUbrey-men- hun·gly llt<.l-ttne\1 took Hobart by tared squad will meet two teams · storm; the Statesmen never know- from Cooper Union and' a team in-g what hit them. Steve Spcn- from Cornell and Springfield. cer, who has been described by The tout·nament, which is to be :Coach Allison as developing into held in the Field Hot1se, will be a \r·eal good\ 127 pounder, pinned conducted on a rotation basis. Hobart's We~ Hend·er:;on .at 2:35 each team nweting each other and Stan Jackowsky, 130 .pounds, l~am two times. The team meet- followed su-it as he downed Bob ings will bt' staggered in such Johnston at 5:45 and kept him a way that the playing will con- then,. Thb· was Jackowsl;y'::; fir~t 1 linut· without stopping for lunC'h wm, much le::Js by a pm, and tt ot· any othet· breaks. looked ·big on the scoreboard as The team this year has shown the Garnet jumped to a 10-0 lead. a good deal of potential, but be- Adasek, at 137 pounds, raised' cause not too much is l~;nown it to 13-0, minutes latel', as he about the opposition the outcome n,y John Lubetkin grahbed a 12-7 decision from Steve of Saturday's contest is anyone's Meenan. Adasek, this year's only guess. Chances for a winning season dima1ed considerably returning letterman, sports a fine o Pictured above are Chuck Marshall and Bob Holland as th<'Y following a 53-42 loss to Wesleyan. Lack of depth was 7-1-1 record for his season's work. Ketz Helps Athletes go up for one coming off the b()ards. Max: Stet>! and Bruce Walsh the decisive factor as Coach Ed Fedosky· simply was un- He was descr-ibed by the Union watch thetm pull in one of the few rebounds of the IIa.milton tiiS,. 1 1 f W ' mentor- as \greatly improved and Escape Tem· ptat;ons ab e to rna te up or es- • · ---- - · · \ , . th b k should be even better next year.\ In an attempt to field an alert The Union College cage contingent will meet Harpur Jeyan s sweeps m e ac .- ley, the wive, an\' the backstroke. 147 Cl \D~ ult t b f f t' F' ld H d t \'- ass ·...,,s s basketball squad this weekend it omorrow, e ore a es 1ve Je ouse crow , a ~ · n e poun c ass, o n has been degided by the Athletic . . n this, the irst meeting of the two schools St ,.o·ke· and di'·ve. This left only the 440, breast- I th 147 d 1 J h M I · f Hoping to get into the last re- stroke, an,d final relay. In the 440 Perkins tied Dick Keen as the Department to house the basket- the Colonials will be the~·---------- lay Fedosky was forced to use the Hamilton coach .put in his Statesmen picked up their only ball team in the Field House on 1 co-captain Ed Ruth. in three freestylers, Jones and Warner, in points of the season. Perkins, a Friday night. This procedure is favorites. Harpur won their 1 Bruce Walsh with 12 and Max events before the fina,l r-elay. AI- an attempt to win the meet then sophoino~e. consistently came not new and ha.s been employed last two games, defeatinD\ Steele with 11. High scorers for though he won the 220 Ruth was and there. Ruth took a ·first. Scott through il'\ the ;matches that with the football team in the past. Alfred 68-65 and Oneont:. I Trinity were Doug Tansill with unable to stay- witb Wesleyan's Flannagan, though, did not place c_ou:nted and was a standout early Wilford H. Ketz announced that Teachers 49-47 '28, Chuck Be.rgman with 21, and Bill White who turned in a spark- and the Dutchmen were still be- in the season. Pete Levesque \this measure was taken to coun- · Ken Lyons With 16. ling 1:01.1 in the 100 yard hutter• hind 44-35; upped the count to 18-2 as he teract the 1 ·nflux of women, to On Thursday the Dutchmen t d · d f t t h d In a deceptive 66-l:f7 loss to Ham- fly. .Com'Pletely exhausted Ruth .maintained control all the way th 1 ·s campus on a Prom Weekend. wen own m e ea 0 a ar - d Jiamilton Man Sp•t>edy h t' T · •t · t t 8 , 60 ilton on Wednes ay, the Continen- had to go again in the 440 and and wore down Pete Tinsly to which creates certain eating and 5 00 mg rml Y qum e· • ..,.. · t 1 '1 h d f' ht d In the bre~~;S~tstroke Hamilton Th h t ·r d 11 th as easl Y won over a ar - Ig - althoug):J. he turned in his thir gain the decision. Levesque is sleeping problems.\ The idea of e cagers, w 0 rat e a e · G t t had a man who had gone four sec- t d 44 26 h If ti mg ' arnet quintet. The con es . best time of the campaign, he was :another first year man who can course being that the choice mor- way, pos e a - a me was mostly give and go, with the unable to defeat Wesleyan's Fred onds faster than Diamond ever be counted on to help the squad . sels floatl\ng around the· fratern- score. After 3{) minutes of play . f h d D . d h h d a1 h h d d h t Hrumilton aggregate leadmg or Turner. This was Ruth's first a · 1atnon ' w o a so gone greatly in the 151 po1:1.nd division it\ houses would distract the ath- t ey a narr-o.we t e score · 0 15 8 · h · d' ·d 1 d \00 d b t ' 6 w· J hn p It 1 d' most of the game by a . to 1 loss in over two years of com- m t em lVI ua an \' yar u- next year. Ietes and would prevent them 58-4 · ~th 0 e on ea mg t fl I t 1 ha t d h h G t tall . d f t · point margin. Pelton again was petition in distance events. ' er · y, was comp e e y ex us e Aggressive Dave Tewsksbury from eating properly and getting t e way t e arne 1e or en d th t 1 ft th . t · h · t tin f 12 the Union standout with 27 points, UniiDn Brings Out the Best an so a e every mg up o had the situation well in hand, enough sleep. strrug t pom s, accoun g or . which tied him ·with Mike Blue- .Junior Howle .Adams-who had and John Brachen along with it,. Another reason for housill.g of the 14 points scored in that Although Wesleyan won by never gone as fast ru; Diamond. In th D t h . d h' o period stein for single game scoring bon- as e u c man pmne 1s p- athletes outside of fraternity · ors. Pelton shot 11 for 11 on the deven points they had to turn a very close race Diamond and ponent at 8:19. Tewksbury is a houses on a Weekend is to pre- The full court press that the thel 'r best t 1 'mes of the cam Ad f' ___,_ d d Th b b D t hm h d 1 ~ d · th charitv stripe to lead the Garnet m - ams to()k Ir<>~ an secon ·. e strong foot aller who has een vent these men from breaking u c · en a emp oye smce e J al ·gn to w1'n The deci·sJ·ve factor f t' · t' 1 .. ~ b · · f th d l d to an 82.6 .per cent foul shooting P' • • ina! relay was an 1rcllmac 1c as hard to stop at 67 pounu.:>. training. Ketz asserted that the egmmng o · e secon per o fte \ Ruth's t\~ seconds was J b 1 · H d d W d ff 177 d h ld T · ·t d t ~<n \\ average, as O[}posNl to a 66 ner • • nv . • ohn Lu et un, Dave en erson, :Min y ov ru , poun s, atmosphere in the houses was only e nn1 Y own o a. • 107 -,.,\ score, \' •n1'or John Lubetki\n's th1'rd ... cD d t 1 t f H ·th f. · t t Th G cent average for Hamilton. •c · and Jim ..... a · onald powere put ·he match wei ou o o- to'O conducive to forgetting that WI 1ve mmu es o go. e ar- J•lace finish in the fifty yard free- through for their fastest time of bart's reach with a 4-2 decision there was a game to be played net efforts soon broke down, how- Elementary mistakes· in passing >lyle. Expected to taKe a second, the year, and won by half a lap. over Norm Steinhauff. Woodroff . the next day, and as he slyly ever, and with three minutes to and controlling the ball cost the i..ubetkin was touched out, and The ·Trinity meet, tomorrow at was aiso described ru; a greatly added \boys will be boys.\ go the score had climbed to 70-5S. Garnet many potential points. •lespite Jim MacDonald's first, 2 :oo P. M. in ·Foote Memorial improved wrestler, and, as did Ketz felt' that one of the rea- Pelton Jed the Union scoring ef- What hurt the cagers the most, 11vo more expected points were Pool, will see the Dutchmen out the whole sauad, closed the sea. sons for the low rnorale on cam- :forts with 23 points. This gives however, was their inability to lost. to avenge last year·s 47-39 loss.· son with a bang. pus was that the players were Pelton 241 points for the season; control the boards, as the Eamil- Co-captain MacDonald breezed Dutchmen advantages will result Heavyweigh.t Superb violating training rules ·before 12 short of Frank Crum's SOJlhO- ton players consistently stole the to two victories in the 100 a,!ld from the fact that Trinity will be Eeavyweighl Jolin Caggiano put gamas: \This wee-kend they won't more scorin grecord of 263. Other ball right from under the Garnet's the 50, and then paced the team making a long trip, swim in a the icing on the ca1te as he has have a chance,\ he smiled. players with double figures were noses. In the 400 yar-d freestyle relay tough, slow }lool, and have to go dol').e S'O often before, by pinning '\'ith a strong finish. Others to ·in tw•o events that al•e not held beefy Gordy Grass in a quick RupPert people ~o 'in that relay were Lubetkin, Dave Henderson, and Jerry Mey- in New England-the 220 yard 2:59. Caggiano has been a clutch (·l'. Hertders'On . .proved one of the butterfly and 200 yard individual performer all season long. medley. The difference in the match was few bright stars o:f the day as · d t · \7 5 f Trinity Has Depth that Union came to wrestle, an he urned in a sparltlmg \ ; or that they did as the 31-2 score his fastest time of the year. Trinity adv:a.ntages lie in far attests. The Statesmen were con- Only abie to pick up ;four firsts superior depth in the freestyle tinually on the defensive and fail- the Dutchmen managed to salv- events, backstroke, dive and 'but- ed to mount a strong attack in age five seconds; Ruth's two, terfly. Pacing the Trinity team f t t h B tt ~t'amond 1'n the .breaststroke and any 0 · tl~e eigh rna c es. e er '-' · will be four versatile freestylers, d't' · 11 the'r ag ·,·ndi'V!'dual m·edley, and Lubetk1'n co-n 1 wnmg as w.e • as 1 - all seniors, who have led the te·am · d t b the in the 100. Thirds were taken gressiVeness, seeme o . e for the past three years; Fred key to Union's success. . by Tiecholz, Buckman, Adams, Williams, Bill Black, Mike Mor- In a 'bit of an eye-opener, the ~nd Lubetkin. gl'\n and Harry Foye. Black and matmen' traveled north ·and upset. Meet Anti-Climatic Morgan are the most versatile of a Pa.ul Smith team th:at iboasted Coach Fedosky wa.s disa'Ppoint- this .group, and ca.Ii. do distance a 7-1 record, including a win over ed with the results but .said that and butterfly e-vents. One of the highly touted RPI. This victory \they just had too many 'horses, two is also a probable starter in set the pace for the Hobart match and we simply couldn't match the individual medley. The quar- artd a winning season- their times.\ Fedosky eXpressed tet !J.Iso boasts one of the most Altl).oilgh hesitant to ventuTe the opin:ion afterwards that the powerful freestyle relay teams in an opinion nex:t year, Allison sai(l team was simply not up enough small college competi.tion. Two he could look forward to an even for the meet, partly as it was years ago they defeated the rec- better season if all of his men anti-climatic after the Hamilton ord-breaking Union freestyle re- came out. Their potentiai Is great meet, and partly because rt was .lay team. and with a season of wrestling the fea.m's ·sixth meet in fifteen· Des.pite the l)ower o-f Trinity's under their belts, the matmen · days and they were exhausted. relay team, the Garnet's only should be tough to pin- The . Hamilton meet was easily chance for kinning lies in their the closest, most exciting meet of ability to go into the last relay. the year. Evenly l,Jalanced, both Probable .firsts Will come from teams went int<t the meet expect- Ruth, :MacDonald, and Diamond. ing to win, and both could have If the rest of the teap1 can pick won. The Dutchmen took six- up enQugh seconds and thirds the firsts, four out of rune seconds, meet will go to the last relay. All battery candidates for varsity baseball were B;Sked to report to the Field House at 5:00P.M. on Monday, February 2;'.. 'l:nd six out of nine thirds. With the exception of the .backstroke there was a truly close race in every event; w'heiher for the first, second, third or aU three places. Without butterflies Jerry Meyer Coach Ed Fedosky found himself down to niile men and two divers. Fairly confident of winning the last rela.y his problem lay in pick- ing u,p enough poin~ and still lea.ving the :final t;elay team in- tact, Fedosky, sure of a sWeep of ' the freestyle events, hoped that sophO-more Steve Diamond would take the butterflY' and breast- stroke events, and that the rest of the team co·uld pick up enough seconds and third$ to h<lld off the OF COURSE Hamilton squad. To make a long story short suf- fice to flllJY that with three ·events to :go Hamilt()n led by a strong 40-30 margin. The •Mermen had . only taken three first places of the first eight, and had been badly outcla:ssed in lhe Individual ~ed• the RATHSK.ELLER will be open . PROM WEEKEND Feb. 27 Saturday 10 P. M. until 2 A. M. plus Feb. 28 Sunday 12 Noon until 12 Midnight have a thirst for living!· Ruppert people plunge into living. They live life to the hilt. They're on the. go and in the know and on their way up in the world. Their heer is Ruppert Knickerbocker --the beer that's on its way up in the world. It took four generations of fami!y tradition to achieve the rare Ruppert flavor.One swallow and you'll know -why it took S() long. Live a little! Have a Ruppert .K'nickerbocker! lacob Rupport, 1\law York Ctlv

i ~ i '· . • 6 • Friday, February 26, 1960 NiXon: (He's ·telling me-those country. (Over my dead body), Times men pretend to 'be so im- Brooks: Now one quick ques- partial, but they're always stir- tion from Mrs. C'ra!g. China • • • W ecl1s,ler .•• Soc:iologist, Psychologist View Campus Sex Habits. Continued from Page 4 By SIJ.ernvood Dean Fox By Cliff()J.'d H. Pearse (Continued from Page 2) (Continued from Page 3) ring up tr<>U:ble). Mr. Lawrence, Mrs. Craig: Are you really plan- the smaller. undifferentiated moi- ety have :no focus of loyalty, no· symbols, no sacrecl ritual ·placl'- in a word~ no \mana.\ The ·main data cited' in what follows will re- fer to clalll members only. < the missile g!lip is growi.ng, and just let me digress for a momen·t ning to put more humor into cam- order of priorities, but most ob- may steadily ·get worse. I do not to say how much I respect the .paigning? There was a recent servers agvee that proselytizing mean to question the sincerity Times, and I can think of no in- .J:eport that you are loo·king for ·.communism per se is given low or wisdom of. the President, but stitution more important to the a ghost WFiter who can make you · Pl'iority, while maximizing Chinese ·aren't these .facts that must •be freedom of the press than the one sound funny. Leon: I don't thin•k so. You'.re powet· and reasserting tt·adiUonal faced? you represent, and I can remem- Nixo!1J: I think my words tonight l Ch . · fl · d d .!Jer as a young man how it was ~'· f ... h 1 ~ I nuts. mese m uence lS accor e Ni:xon: Mr. Drummond, ~ spe.;..., or \ emse ves, I' f · · h' h t f my ambition to be even a lowly B , __ I' I t · ·t· ro : Have the a~ts made any· Ig es pre erence. have long admired your w_or.lc, and · roo...,.: m sorry mu£3 m er- . · I · tl t •~ · d St t copy boy on that newspaper, until · M t p contribution to our understand• tIS clear ta •c.ue Umte a es I can only say, as I did the other rupt. Nex:t week ee the -ress · d · circumstances over which I h~d t d h·t ing of the question before us? has reacte · t<> Chinese advances day, that I wish the opposition will bri·ng you ano her har - 1 • little control led me to run for First, th,ere are ceremonies con· m•cted ~'\'ith the cooperation among clan members in inviting \elates\ ITi:his is the local term used to refer to a visiting young lady>. :Members of a clan vary in their ability to entice dates, and there is r\mch jociwying involved in matching qualifications of dates to clansmen, so that the game of interpersc.nal relations can be played prcoperly. Ed: I read La.dy Chatterlrs on a mostly ad hoc basis. This party would stop playing the num- ting interview with another dis- Lover. All I can say is: She was should not b-e and need not be the bers ·game. (That oughta to shut Congress~ And: now in. answer tinguished, forthright political no lady. case. An analysis of recent events them up). to your question, 1 shall n()t of 'leader, Sen. Lyndon Johnson. ]' course try to speak for Mr. Rocke- . ~en: I'd rather go to the mov- . allows one to cautiously ,generalize Lawrence: There are persiste.nt -~--o lcs. a pattern of Chinese behavior. AJ:i- reports that Governor Rocltefeller feller but I c.an .only repeat again ' The Philamatheans earned ((is. J h what I have said before, and that · o n: Is 011 the Road anythin.g parently internal pressures of in- ·isn't giving up, and is just ·wait- is that Mr. Rockefeller has a .tinction last (Week as they were like On the Rt>ach? dustriaJization require a scapegoat ing for something to go wrong the only undefeated team in the ~ - I L l ,.... f great role to play in our party · . .ur.s: say '<>veo s ,,._y Pro es- on which to vent pent up frustra- with your campaign to become ·1\-IcGill University Debating' To_ ur- 1 d and in U~e future history of our s.'on. I idn't understand H. tions. Chinese maps ·consistently active again. nament. They had a 6-0 record. Sonny: Say, you know what's snowed as Chinese areas claimed---------------------------------~----.:....---~----- the greate.st? Those in-the-cat· by India. The readiness of China heaters. to suddenly shut its position vis Charlie: I wouldn't ask a girl a vis India and incur the latter's to the prom. I wouldn't want her hostility, indicates. several things. to l\now I go to Union. She'd only Fil\st that Ghina did not expect to sa)·. Where's that? ·meet the opposition that greeted EX(}(\Uds Effort Manuve-ring E!Pction of a female as tut€'lary godtless-siJir.it of the corro bbori provides further insight into the opPt·ntion of th<' game. Members of Parh r Inn nrr obligatPcl to find clat£'~ Hut poRelPss charimati<' qualities •uch as to maximize- their chanct•,; of beitrg chosen \'lll<'Pn\:Df thf' ronohhol'i. Cunsid- <'rnhlP ef!fo!'t i'< <'XpPn<l<•rl in mnn- PUVPl'S. hy mPmh\r\ of ~ given elan. de~l!'ned to guamntPe the> choosing of its candidate as g-od- de,.;s-spiti t. 01· \<!uP e.n.\ The Htrrngi:h of tht• s<'ntiml'nL~ in- \'ohrPrl 1<. attf'stP<l to hv thP fact th:-1t the actual choice of the queen is tnade by some of the tribal eld!t•rs, who are unaware of the magi cal I'ituals P<'rformed by the elans, and \'{ho select the g-od- t!~,;s-spitt t itlli<•JlPntlently of clan purposf's. As alwn~·s happens. the irwffirarJ,r of magil' dut•s not im- pair·, in tHle minds of helicvcrs, the I..es: What is your opinion on its adventures int<> Indian terri- the topic, professor? tory. Second, when· China did Prof: w~n . . . on the one meet opiHJsitlon, it was prepared hand .. but on the oth<'r hand. to sacrifice its favored position .o:pf of ohligatorv lo\·aities to the c>lan. Clan oblig-atio~s are first in t hP minds of members, preventing loyalties from developing in two ,,tner du·ections: ill loyalties to tllt· triht> a.< a w.hole. and (2) l<>y- ''ltiPs to the norms Of respect f<lr imlividual dignity. Conformity to dan standanl:,; is thus an impor- tant factor, in addition to the nlt-dia of mass communication and oth<'r conformity-producing a.gen- · .C'ie~. in the gen£>sis and mainten- '1 n<'<' of thP typ<' of rPia.tions 'l>e· t WPPil I hro ~PJCPS fhntl' hns hPen diS• cussed hPr<'. with India in deference to the ob- jective of ex:tending Chinese power to its \ancient\ limits. At the :>ame time, • 'Indian e:Kpansionists'' 1 were made the scapegoat for 1 China's fl'Ustrations. 1 Indon£'si1111 ·Relations Strained I In Indonesia, the harsh treatment of the overseas Chinese population ,. proved a hone of contention be- tween that country and China. Communist China demonstrated I thf3.t it isprepared to give higher priority to protecting the interests of the overseas Chinese than it is : to wooing the Indonesian Govern- ment. China demonstrated that ('aust>s Io~mot-ional Disturba.neE she is prepared to assume an ag- gressive posture in her designs to assert present-da.y Chinese .power and re-establish the traditional in- fluence and prestige of the Mid- dle Kingdom. sPntimcn;t: that the magic is funda- Tht:' consequences of this game mentally good. mJy be seen in the rate of emo- tional distut·bance among Ameri- Provr-s InciJ)ient :nanhu.ud ef3.ns. in the quality of many Dla..I'· Throug-h long training, th~ ita! relationships, and in funda- clansmen luwe lc>:trnt><.l to prove nlt·ntal attitudes toward hu:man thPir inri!J!t·nt manhood by <.lemon-. beings. Since these are only obser- stratlllg 1he ability to induce at- 1.·ations illl certain aspects of tracti\·e females to spend time· American life; no remedies will be with them. Fema!Ps thus become suggested. It is hoped that th.is r•hjL•cts aof predatory interest, 01· ease study may be followed by countPrs in the game, rather than comparative studies designed to p<·I sons I.Yith '\vhom a gratifying- test the hypothesis that good hu- humnn relationship can be Pnjoy- nun relationships between the PU. The clan structure of the sexes arc possible--and desirab-le tribe contributes to this emphasis --and that they can be attained hy impos.i11g on the members of through changes in the structure Pach clan, and of this moiety, a. of our educational processes. Date Lists Listed • • • ICuntinu~d from Page ! 1 We have by no means identified and enumerated all the variables which play an important part in Chinese behavior. There are other fa.ctors to be sure, and if the United States is not to react on an ad lloc basis to Chinese advances, it had bettet· do :some serious thinking on tile subject. The ma- jor obstacle to c:lea.r thinking is removed once we recognize that the People's Re.publi.c of China <PRCJ is here to stay and that we must live with it. Diplomatic recognition is a mat- ter of expediency . .Advocates of ex- 1 tending diplonatic recognition to Communist China solely in order to woo her from the U:~S.R. seem PHI SIGMA DELTA David P., Sue. Ski dB; Arty, Boll• to base their position more on Size, Brooklyn; ;\ianager, Moimo· cherished hope-s than on political rnt·<.les, Rochester. realities. It is certainly tantalizing bie, Skit!.:;; Bob H., Janice \\'.,. KAPPA NU Sage; Ben, Joan, Skids; Lonny. J h J B u G tl M'l ld~·. Skttis; Zucks, Judy, Skids; 0 n, ane, · .; en e, I te, Yonkers; Huge. Minute, Jamaica; \\'arren, 1-Iedy, Albany State; L. Dave, Nymphette, Brooklyn; Neil, l\lil!'al, '-Cuse; Gerry, Joyce, HeRrd. F!ozon, Hollis; Jazzie, Red, Cornell: Chuck, Sue, Vassar; :\Tt. Sinai; Poe, Tince, Cee; Lance, David ;\1., Judy, ::loluns .. y; Arty B., Karen. Skidmore; Rookie, Bushy- Betty. Sl\ids; ;>.Iug,;er, Ellen. Pushy, Islip; Bambie, Bette Anne, Skiclli; i'leil H., Gina, Long Island; Cherry Grove; Pete, Mel, Syra- Hat-v, ]}ierry, N. R.; Gary B., Judy, cuse; Letcher, Great Necker, Cork n' Bib; Lee, Car·ol, North P I R J · B t A . Great Neclt; Joel, Beth, U.V.M:.; o e; aps, amce, os on; ugic, Eli, Christiane, Little Town Near Janice, :.classepequa; Halps, Gail, Endicott; S.chneids, Judy, Sage; Paris; T., E., A. · · · ; Stu, Sue, D' d r J · C II S.S.F.C.; Gerry, Barb, Cortland; taman Im, amce,. or?e ; Prince Valiant, Overdue, Detroit; Garry G., Betz, Sweet Brmr; .Nuss, peck p cJr M th H c J d . \'' d • . . G . s d ' e •, o er en, o'Ops· u y, • 00 meie,. rea~e, an y, ville; Guess Who, Would You Be- Tea.ncck; La.sh, G~nny, Newbutgh; lieve Lt, Senior Weekend?; Pa Whitehall, ;\fanlyn, Yonkers; R t ~~ h y· Sl.. T Dave, .Err:uly, ~lud.s; Eddy, Linda, I \noo !·· omaeL''IIruSs, keepy ImJeb; S· ., . s l ~ k l c 1 , \V d ~ o \umB 1 noo urns, o age, Sc lui c eF~· atEl~t'l 0 ~ • Press; Uninhibited, Inhibited,. To- mere; J»lc s. ury, u mna.s1a; o-a· Eid • St t Th R Ch ·I c l·I Sl ·u . ,., , 1 \' . er a esman, e egu- at cs. aro - .ee. H s, .-e son, 1 . ccNy . Eld St t · Lilly Albany State· Both-V'/ays a I, · · · ·• er a esman, Ir- Kar~n Persph:uity· 'Sonny Sam' !'(•gular, Tr~uble; Joe, Joan, Vas- , . ' , · . : sar; Porferw, Karen, R.S.; Loch- Barnard, Kenny, _Sa~Idy_. S·kt.us, in,·ar, Stolen Bride, Gentle's Wools, Katthy, Sage, Dtclue, D\vee· Hands· Daff H 'bl Sk' Badooyah, Salad Bowl; Steck, R. S. ' . y, orn e Ier, Honey, L:;·nbt·ook; Joel B., Steph- · , 'Jr ... D~ve Emm, _Sandy Es::;;. · D d I F · dl , E · S.:N.Y.; Zm1s Boy, Eliza Amen- p a~te cl ~ ~s, 1 . rF;er: Y s; F ppie, can U.; Petit Garcon, Petite F'ille, 1eppy, p~II.Icl; ~etsman, emme JHS· U 1 s M' D F t 1 B . . Th B . · · ·• nc e am, ISS orp, D a a r,·b 05 ~ 0 ~.' .e R 0 ~~· i;an;, Tri•City; Steve, Louise, South S ~~~~\ ~ 1 1' y 10 ~ 111 >. i' t c1 1 ou · Orange, N. J.; Autocrat, Anita, r :1; a • · ZZI, san 11 · Vassar; Mike, Lois, City; Little KAPPA ALPHA Jimbo, Sarah, Skid<.lie; Kranny, Beno's Cit.ild, Surgery; P. J., Shir- ley. A.S.T'.C.; Cuddles I, Mother B., C.S.T:C.; Cu<idles 11, Mary V., Hmmmmr:;n; Cuddles III, Doey D., R-8-; Leverscrew, Judy, Hart· ford; Micul Evy, Chipper Fail'till, Skiddie; E'::Rkimo, Polal' Bear, The Pl'ison; Holyghost, Carol, Had- wick; ~Fitch, Churchkey, Sing Sing; Dieter, C .. s. Ripit, A.S.T.C.; Alf, Squatty Animal, Jamaica H.S.; Big AI. Anita, Saratoga; !, .. C., A. Bud, Barlbara, Wellsley; Noise, · FUN 'ROUND THE Rosemary. Elmira St.; Fr·anlc, R · d Penny, Santa Maria; Grossness, ou n That Gir3 Again, Swarthmore; Wishy-Wa.shy, Rosie, African · . Queen; MoeGeogh Award, Audrey,H th Ruthcl'foi'~ Tec•h; Hernia, Gilda, ear . Gut U.; Ttmothy 0 .. Marge, Santa · ' Maria; B.:non, Gail, Rochester; · :· Markee, K.ate, F,. Hill Hosp.; Wor- STOWE'S GREAT SKI DORM ·. to speculate about a split, but there is no demonstrable evidence that those differencs which do ex- ist between the U.S.S.R. and the PRC are anything more than tac- tical. The \socialist cam\p\ appears as united as ever on fundamentals. Recognition. Discussed Recognition by the United States of the Peopie!s Republic of China will inv<>lve .advantages and dis- advantages. 'l'he question of Chi- nese representation in the ·United Nations is .se}la.rate from the ques- tion of U. S. recognition of Peking. Both steps, howevel', are designed to bl'ing Peking into the commun- ity of nations and establish more normal channels of communica- tion. The need for first hand, on the spot l'epoMing is vital if we arc to be in a ,position to better evaluate response patterns of the Chinese elite and to \feel\ what is actually going on in China. Above all else, ·clear, realistic thinking, devoid of moral and emotional overtones, is needed if we are to successfully .meet the challenges of the new decade. The Nigh+ A way WHAT D'YA HEAR I N TH E B EST 0 F C I R C l ES- ? a Strike up a friendship with Schaefer, the beer with the smooth round taste ... never sharp, never flat. Man, that's beer- REAL BEER! · sled, Diame, R-5---; Mish•l\Iash,w • . ' Sue's Friend A s T c arrn, casual, glowmg with good com- : Karen •.• and I'll buy your Prom Favor at Maurice B. Graubart 8 Sons,\\Jewelers, 166 Jay Street. We can depend on their 3 gener- ation reputation. ' · · · · panionship, the Round Hearth's the INI)EPENDENTS lodge to rest ar:d refres~ yourself. ·. . Hearty fare, dancmg, relexmg around I ~reud, Problem, Ctty; R7he!,-tiie famous circular fireplace-it adds.· Bright GIIE'I, Vassar; Orgamzer,.u.p to fun! Only $5.25 a day with twe> Iconoclast, Vassar; Doc, His Fu-meals, $40 a week. Write for folder or I ture, Newbourg; Einstein, E=mc?, 'I'el .. STOWE, Vt., ALpine 3-722s.j' Skidmore; Big Salesman, Right · Lance THE F.&:M. SCHAEFER BREWING CO,, NEW YORK and ALBANY, H. Y • V'O'L. Ti w grad lege Four cipie Joel 1960 Clas: Tic' the f and 1 East ment ment Jame rPcei, field Swan as yE T. LE recei· cit.JLti Sir the I it us gradt nam< fellm carr~ fami of a univ1 in th 1 Th versi StatE ·1ecte senti stud: scho Cam ities are l mati Th teac: icai educ that will the the expe row was ;proiJ teac: then grac grax fron crea and lege H J \B1 5\ Ser ren nin .der :sor hel ori: Ir of I Org seni fall, cert It i: ed Wil: in 1 Ir era! will war ver, ·car Cur tior stri intE and Ir Ser inf< s·olc tim for sin< plru Cut sho fi:>r 'I Pol Ma Ha

