omo NEUTRALITY Page 2 SC Honors UnionAthletes By Alan Kaufmaa An \Athlete of the Month Program\ was adopted by the Student Cotlllcil in its first session of the 1961-62 aca- demic year. This plan is to assist in intensifying school spirit at Union. {!>------------- Also included in the agenda I of the meeting Was the Student Tax Committee's report on its 1960-61 operations, a new Traf- fifc Court, a Freshman-Sopho- more Rivalry Schedule, and ap- proval of a Fall Pl·om Plan. The Athletic Department and each team in season will select four candidates for the \Athlete of the Month A ward,\ and the student body will cast their 'otes on a prescribed day in bal~ lot boxes posted at key spots on campus, pr.obably Bailey Hall, the Book Store, West College and General Engineering. An amend- ment to have no individual \vin this election twice was defeated by the Council. Finances Accounted Dudley M. Cate, chairman, enumerated the Student Tax Committee rcords for last year. The gross income was $28,947.97. Mo1·e than three-quarters of this sum was received from the .stu- dent tax for both semesters and bills due to the committee from 1959-60. Gross expenses totaled ~25,- 699.11 and $22,164.90 of the amount was budget allocatiins to campus activities. A $3,248.86 balance therefore remained from the 1960-1961 operations. However, as stipulated by the procedure for the disposition of the Student Tax Account bal- ance, $748.86 was deposited in the Student Tax Endowment Fund. For that reason, the net balance which was transferred to the 1961-62 account is $2,500. Traffic Judges Named Martin Luther King Dr. King To Speak On Liberty PEACE CORPS Page 3 Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1961 PRICE 1 5 CENtS Marking Systetn Revised Lectures ,Aims Program Agenda Set In Motion Stated i I

2 Publlobo<l Frlda:vo during the school )'OELr by the Student Bod:y ot Union College, Schenectady. N. Y. Na· tlonal AdvertlsiQg Representative: National· Advertising Service. Inc., College Publlshera Representative. 42G Madison Ave .. N. Y. C. Editorial Ottlce, Waohburn Ball, Union College, ·Publlcat!on Office, Schenectady Pr1ntinr Compa.n:y, 602 Broadwa;y. Entered in the Selle· nectady Poat Of~lc-e aS Second Clafls Mail Matter. subscription l&c a copy: S3 a· year delivered an)\Wilere in the United States. Rt)~AI .. D r: PHt'~I~ fJ:? P8TER E. SCHWAHTZ '62 r>01'(1I •• \~f' ~~ .\l.I.F.:-> · c~ ALFRED SOM~!Io~R '63 JAMf.:S ST!WHBI~Htl 't::l HENIOR BOARD [l( 6-9~156 EX 3·9232. r;;dltor~in-Chi~f Business Manager Manas-ing Bditor News Editor .......... .Sports Editor Da\'id RPrPnl'lon \64 Sim(}n Sobo '64 Allen Sch\V artz • 6 4 Andy- F\ogelson •s4 Howard Barl·nrnRh '6-L Alan Kaufman '64 . Blll Heisler '64 Steve Raymond · 63 Steve F\actor '63 Peter A.mbrofle '6 ~ Jl':\IOR BOARD Ading Feature Editor Assistant News Editor .......... Make-up Editor Assistant Sports Editor .Copy Editor Spectal Events Editor ...... . .. ............. Exchange Editor .. Local Advertisin~ Managar ~ ational A.dvertising Manager ... Advertising Co-Ordinator REPORTER STAFF Gllbt>tr.t Ht->ll, Ot>ra ltl tlrt>f'nwald. Harold Horwnz, :\lartin ~ewman, Lloyd Nurk·k. Al Pize-r. I\rP.tl Ito~Pnbt-rg, R1ek Ht•harf. Sid SC'r.nolL Robert Sherwin. Howard Sieg~I. I~tl Slclnot. RobP.rt Rklnot. PPtPr Sussman. Brad Sweeny, John Thorne, Rkld 'I'()wt. Paul ~rurn~->1\. Lawton :\Iorrison. Elhnvorth \Tra['y. Kal Sehneider. Erk Toder. CANDIDATE REPORTER STAFF Andrew AckPr. Arnold Berkowitz, Edward Brynes. Wayne Butler Martin Cohen, Mart.ln Joy, Mel King, Robert Kramer, Douglas LaBier. Edw.o.rd V. Moore, Jon ~Pubs. Richard Paradi~P. Janws \Vilson, Larry Horowitz. BraU Bol'kraber. BUSINESS STAFF Robert Rulsun. Paul Feldman. Ed Kraus. Lonnie !\iassivera, Larry Ptalis, Al Sang-uilliano, John S1rnom, Barn· Weinstein Let There Be Light A walk through the campus after dark will reveal a hulking black mass dominating its center, and which stands as a symbol of the \new-old\ architecture sweeping our campus. Nott Memorial, long the symbol of Union and a landmark in American architecture is now darkened in the evenings. Not one light illuminates its interior, creating an alien and lonely feeling for all who have seen it before. The familiar and real is being obliterated by the unfamiliar and false. There has long been a central architectural theme on Union's campus, repeated in almost all of the buildings. A look at Bailey Hall, the Biology Building, or Kappa Alpha, is sure to elucidate the general, but subtle theme pervading through the traditional architecture of North and South Colleges, In the center of this general theme are two build- ings, 1.1.11ique, and in many ways beautiful. These are Nott Memodal and Washburn Hall. The former has been dark- ened, and the latter is slated for destruction. To take the place of this previous balance and beauty are Richmond House, West College, and the Schaffer Li- brary. They no longer suggest the unity of campus archi- tecture, they force it upon you. They are morbid reflec- tions of each other, tending to give this campus (on any but a clear day) the look of the local penitentiary. Its bad enough that a bastardized form of Ramee is being perpe- tuated, but the need for desecrating the only two real build- ings is beyond comprehen.Sion. For the sake of the College, turn on the lights. Oil For The Lamps Webster defines the term student as, \one devoted to learning.\ Presumably then, the prime purpose in attend- ing college is to profit by the educati()n offered. However, in order to utilize the full potential of available oppor- tunities, the student must form several habits which put him under those circumstances conducive to his learning; particularly, he must choose a place to study where he will be able to assimilate and correlate course material as well as to contemplate his original views. In years past, the Union student has had no diffi- culty in finding conditions suitable to his study habits. If his fraternity house or dormitory were too noisy for proper concentration, Nott Memorial Library was always opened till eleven o'clock every week day evening. Last year, the General Engineering building was left open for study until two o'clock every morning_ This year, with the opening of the Schaffer Library, referred to as the ultimate in college study facilities, we were greeted with a new phenomenon, the all night study room. This new concept, we were infonned, would not only make the General Engineering Building superfluous evenings but would permit the library an earlier closing hour, 10 PM. The all night study room, with a twenty-six student capacity, is then to serve the study needs of a 1,250 man, resident college after ten o'clock every week day night. This, unfortunately, is a physical impossibility. Despite arguments to quiet fraternities, which to many is another physical impossibility, we can see no other solution than to return the Library to a more rea- sonable 11 PM closing hour and, for those studying after 11 PM, to reopen the General Engineering Building fol- lowing evening classes until 2 AM. Reflections: Neutrality Defined By Edward Skloot If you accept the challenge and proceed to play, you are no long- er a child. You play to win. You must know the rules cold and if question arises it must be settled quickly, vigor- ously, and if necessary, ruth- lessly. This is especially the case when no umpire or ref- eree is present. Improvise, play it by ear. It is supposed that you have the re- sources to play, the capacity to meet any offense through skill- ful utilization of these resow·ces. If you. can't do this, you have no right to indulge in such com- petition. These principles of g·ameman- ship are applicable in world af- fairs as well as in baseball. Pony team leagues can't play in the majors, just as Honduras can't wage war against Red China. Be- liefs to the contrary are not only presumptuous; they are pre- posterous. An \All-Star\ Pony league team couldn't defeat the Yankees. Well, the \All stars\ of the neutrality set suited up for their practice not long ago. A cos- mopolitan group, to be sure, they were to be defeated before they got started. Every team member played a different kind of base- ball. And they didn't know the rules. Antl their pants were too big. Analyze the issues. They chose the strongest opponents with the best resources. What they could have hoped for was to impress the United States and Russia. What they could have achieved was a united front, to state together their aims and po- tentialities . • . a look good in practice. Must Act Professional A team that w·ants to win must have spirit. They must act like professionals although they may not be. They should play accord- ing to Hoyle. \Neutralism can be argued for and against for weeks. But if a country proclaims its \neutral- ity,\ its non-alignment shouldn't it be responsible to its word. To- day it appears that an ally is your friend, an enemy is sworn to your destruction, but a \neu- tralist\ seems sworn to your friendly destruction. Something was lacking at the meeting in Belg-rade. Perhaps it was spunk. With the world watching, the \ne-utralists\ pro- ceeded to reject colonialism and the like and to reaffirm the ideal of lasting peace on a display of spineless agreement. This result is fascinating in its irresponsibility. The countries in attendance will never \make the grade\ if they insist on playing without uniforms. To be a \neutt·al\ is difficult. A country has to work at it. The position of non-alignment is dangerous_ But the only good neutralist is one who is just that. For three Generations ••• Those Who Know. Have been recommending - A neither het·e - nor - there- what· ever - pleases - me - best - what- do - I - get - out - of - it atti- tude doesn't make a country \neutral.\ Is it wrong to expect a neutral country to have some principles? Shouldn't someone be annoyed by a dozen itchy palms poking in his ,pockets? What I mean by ·playing like a team, by wearing similar uni- forms, is reacting to world is- sues and problems with some- thing more than a vague title. A group of countries must have some coherent principles, guides to a-ction, so they can execute their plans I.IS does a coordinated football team. Don't we have the right to know what a \neutralist\ is? Don't the \neutralist\ countries have that same obligation, to be honest with themselves? It is impossible to play by the rules unless you know what game it is that you're playing. How can any logical action or reaction be ex- pected if everyone gets his wires crossed? The meeting at Bel- grade was exemplary of the lack of meeting of the minds of the \neutralist\ countries. T h e y seem desirous to work in concert, but don't know how. They seem to know the value of world peace although their own coun- tries are unsteady. They presume, and rightfully, that together they can exert pressure on all parties involved, but can't decide who they are and what pressure actually is. Tigers Denounced There is n()thing wrong with denouncing colonialism, imperial· ism, and rnaneating tigers. There is sotnething wrong if nothing is substituted. At this stage of the game it is impera- tive that some direction is taken. If neutralist countries are to ~chieve respect, and mort> import- ant today, a position of author- ity,· their purposes must bP de- clared. After that. they must be- come functional. They mu~t make decisions and have sound base8 for them. It is categorically impJ•oper to assume every countr~· not nn alb· or an enemy is a \neutralist.\ This is fallacious reasoning, How long can smh a classification continue~ Is Ghana as \neutral\ a~ YugoslaviH; is India a neutral to the degree that is Egypt~ PHhaps the IP'eatest fallacy is to assume at the outset that such a position is plausible. However, those countries who have identified themselves as \neutrals as being non-aligned, have takE'n their position. They declare its reality and its neces- ~ity. They- espouse its value and importance. The Belgrade meet- ing seems to prove the insincere- ity- of these thoughts. If the \neutral\ nations want to make their position felt, if they beli-eve they can influence world policy and opinion morally, politically and economically, they will have to play like a team rather than a group of individuals looking for a bribe. HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Mauri~e B. Granbart &. Sons 11 1ay Street Jewelers':~ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY Friday, October ~' 1 Science Teachers Attend NSF Cour. This past summer marked the third year of the· College National Science Foundation Summer Institute high school science teachers. Friday, O<:tobE By 'E. J\1 Attended by 100 teachers this yeal\ the present umon ::iummer institut~ js a th11ee year prog1·am leading to the degree ol iU<tsler uf Science in Teaching. Cuuro<:::s offered during the program in- cluded biology,, ,chenust.ry, geul- ogy, mathematics, and, physics. In additional to study in their individual fielt!:s, ull tile pa1tid- pants were reqto.i.red to attend six general seminars. Topics cov- ered 'by the lecturers ranged from heredity to micrometeor- of P.S.S.C. physics, topics introduced in na1:nem1tt1~ If those who l Many qf the dent Kennedy's I1 ites. a revision of remembe1· any or curricula, more .is most 1ikely and adoption of new or \As\< not what S text books. The course has a do for you - aE proven to be of direct benefit do for your coun the teachers themselves. and letter of thi~ stated that as a result is most evident h: course, they had been tablished Peace to a- higher position. brought- to wide Since the participants are in a speech by quired to live on campus time of the presiC Finds Fulfillment from their families, COlll?.'Em~the program's ea social groups quickly Congress include Although the course is one of The formal classroom Humphrey and 1 rigorous concentrated effort for is augmented .by t· Richard Newberg most participants, -it neve1·theless through discussion Shr-iver He leaves them with a sense of deep problems and a pet•sonal satisf!'ction. This feeling of ideas. The POIPuJlar:ttY Upon assumin of fui!Irlment hastens these sum- program is dent Kennedy es· mer students into the ranks of by the fact that program of the Union's most •loyal alurp.ni. They plications were received uanced by prev enthusiastically tell their fri-ends mission into the institute Mutual Security ; throughout the country of their year. tive Order. R. ~ expertenees here, advising about Instills Confidence former Pre'Sident 200 of the -past year's applicants Board of Educati• to the freshman class to come to Professor D. K. Baker ident's bt,other-i Union. ln addition, publ!Clty con- pressed the effectiveness of pointed\ to head · earning the participants en- program as follows: \From ture. More recen· hances Union's presti-ge in areas replies of the participants approved the pre where the college is mtle km>wn, sensed' a feeling of optimi-sm manent basis as such as the midwest. newly found courage in their agency with its o The long range benefits of the ity to teach well.\ The dollar budg-et wi1 course are on a much broader in.g success of the ment of State. Jl scale. A questionnaire presented be attributed to the programs, Congr to those completing the three yet rigorous approach the ultimate size year course revealed that all but ion instructors. Peace Corps. a .few thought that the quality of The NSF program theil' teaching had improved. The neered here at Union 1 Siklled Manpo final repmt of the program, com- ago as the G.E. Science The basi-c airr piled by director D. K. Baker, ship Program. General Corps, as stated I contains an evaluation by one of concluded their program is to provide rec the participants. \Many topics summer of 1959 to make veloped nations v covered i-n 'honors' physics cl:;~ss the more comprehensive power to help t which I teach have been strongly Summer Institute and to b . d . th th ~.I·r educat1'onal I'ntei·ests astc nee 8 m E influnced both from the subJ-ect .. d t' g·r·l·cu other fields. e uca lOn, a matter stressed and the method -------------1neering. Peace 1 of presentation. The NSF pro- is being- made a· gram has given me much back- for private voluntars ground information which I for- / lege and universi merly did not have. In many the grams, internati cases I have been guided in my agencies such as purchases by knowledge of equip- finest tions, existing Ur ment which I nave used or have ernment program seen demonstrated during the in through the ne~ NSF program. I've been able to 1 1. rectly administer pass along much information to custom c ot ing Corps itself. Thl other teachers, particularly ideas d f 1. grams ar·e be1'r d t · 1 bt · d f f 1 an urnis in·4s an ma ena o ame rom e - e; while new ones ; low teachers (at the institute). lished. The questionnaire revealed Ever since th many changes by the particip- American\ has ; ants in the courses they teach. the self-col1Sciou These changes included new ac- u celerated programs, introduction 14 E. 44tl. St. • New Yorl.l7, country, the n -;~~;;~~~~~;;~~;;~~;;~~;;~~;;~~~~~~been ~cutely awa .: best-intended of Sherman's Liquor Sto DISCOUNTS ON CASE LOTS Free Delivery --- 720 Albany St. FR2-3465 Hours: 9 A.M. to 11 :00 P and uninformed, unfavorable ima~ and its goals c Hence, the Peace a special !lffort t< women willing 1 ('Ontact with an conditions as the Africa, the Middl America. Qualifications Anyone over e ply for the prog1 educational requi hut the lmowlec skill and a colle: highly desirabl• Candidates fill c questionnab:e C() ve:rse items as e ency in :foreign tiona! skills, emp he<J,lth, ability ir terest in useful dates next are ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tested in centers ii out the country. DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118 - 120 JAY STREET the volunteer is project center a~ intense training · :.~ix weeks to sbi jects related to h Such training iJ tory, religions, a nation to be visi1 <'onfronted with Punjabi in the c signed to a ce1 India. India Pa: Service in the from two to tl: ~=========================:J most of the tirr Vohmteet·s recei'li Are your folks chewing their nails? When the family doesn't hear from you, they suspect the worst. Why not keep in touch by Long Distance. Phoning is easier than writing. Just takes one lazy finger on the dial! NOTHING SAYS IT LIKE YOUR VOICE ary, but l'eceive ~ quate to cover ~ oenses. Upon C( program, the V< ceive a separate upon his time o' accumulated at t ty-five dollars a J Corps also make placement servic• ·n·ganization doe! from the dtaft; 1he Unive1·say l\ and Service Act. hecause the proi \·ital to the Iiatio The India Pro. those under the c of the Pence Cor] conversations b Shriver and Nehru, an initial

Friday, O<:tober 6r 1961 3 P·eace Corps Grows; icy supports its ideals If we send great opportunities for mankind,; A;>plieations for Danforth Grad- Americans to work in Angola and a. f~ontiet• of hope for the; hungr~· 1 nate Fellowships 1~orth u~ to . at the same time supply arms to bl'lhons of the world. It IS to the i $12,000 are now bemg received, Portuguese colonists there, Amer- developm~n~ of. this. fro11:tier, a_nd j C. W. • Huntley announced today. ica's image will not be improved. ~o Amenca s 1denttfica~wn W:Ith The fellowships, oli'ered by the 'I'he Peace Corps cannot succeed if ~t, that t~e P~ace Corps Is l}'lakmg 1 Danfor!·h Foundation of St .Louis, Training Is I it is going to be just another ef- tts contrtbuthton. 1 The p~r.lls at:e /Missouri, are open to male college · t fol't to buy friends. However, it grea , but t e opportumt1es a1 e I seniors or recent graduates pre- : . D· e· .nse ean become a central part in an far greater. I I>aring for a career of teaching, · enlightened and progressive for- \·U . C II b J.' h II coum;eling, or administrative work By 'E. M. Tracy · eign policy which will support the mon o ege e teves t at at the college level Appl' nts 1·ising forces of African and Asian every student should have an op- , b . · . .ICa If those who listened to Presi- dent Kennedy's Inaugural address remembel' any one line of text, it .is most likely the oft quoted: \Ask not what your country can do for you - ask what you can do for your country.\ The spirit . and letter of this call to sacrifice is most evident in the recently · es- tablished Peace Corps. First . brought. to wide public attention in a speech by Kennedy at the time of the presidential campaigp., l jt'i nationalism, not deliberately con- portunity to partidpate in an ath- ~ay r planmng to major m_.any • fuse them with communism. It letic program. The College ron-· ecogn zed field at the ;AmerJ~an can provide an outlet for the· en- ducts an extensive intercollegiate graduate school of their ch01ce, ergy of .courageous and idealistic and intramural prog!'am deRigned hut Hhould not haV!:' ?!ready un- American youths. In the under- to promote wide participation in dertaken graduatP wolll . developed world lies the real athletics on the part of its stu· : .\11 interPsted students should \New Frontier\ a frontier of I dents.\ 'see Dean Huntley immPdiately. co:n!!'·en~· the program's early advocates in Congress include 'Senator Hubert Humphrey and the late Senator Richard Newberger. Shr-iver Heads Corps Upon assuming o:tfice, Presi- dent Kennedy established a pilot program of the Peace Corps, fi- nanced by previously allocated Mutual Security funds, by Execu- tive Order. R. Sargent Shriv~r, former Pre'Sident of the Chi~ago Board of Education and the Pres· ident's bt,other-in-law, was ap- pointed· to head the pioneer ven- ture. More recently Congress has approved the program on a per- manent basis as an independent ~.,.,~~nhl agency with its own multi-PJ,illion dollar budg-et within the Depart- ment of State. As in all Federal programs, Congress will control the ultimate size and scope of the Peace Corps. Siklled Manpower Provided Pictured above is a peasant farmer in one ·Of the many under-de- veloped areas in the world. The Peace Corps is training. men who will travel with new farming machines and technology to these areas in order to improve methods of labor and crop yield. The basi-c aim of the Peace . Corps, as stated by the President,· fiye vol_unte~rs Will be sent to In- gram attend a ten week training is to provide receptive under-de- ~ha, pr~marily for the purpose of program undertaken by Ohio veloped nations with skilled man- mereasmg food productiOn to State University which will in- power to help them meet thefr meet the ne.eds of tha~ country's elude a study of the agricultural basic needs in the fields of health, ever expl}ndmg POJ?Ulatu~n. .These crop structure and farming prac- education, agriculture, and engi- ~en and women J'IIl assist m ag- tices of the district under devel- neering. Peace Corps assistance r1cult?ra:l extensm~, d.emo~st!ate opment. Upon completion of is being made available through t~chmques of c~I~rv~tmn, Ir~I~a- training in the United States, fur- private voluntary programs, col- ~ron, ~se of fer~rhzer~, and sKills ther orientation p>·ograms will be lege and university overseas pro- mvolVIng. moder·n eqmpment. T~e carried out in India. N.Y :00 p grams, international assistance grot!P Will wor~ under . the d1- This project is but one of many agencies su.ch as ~he United Na- rec.tt?n of In~an. a~rtcul~ural Peace Corps projects currently tions, existrng Umted States gov- off1c1als. and wrth mstiUctors at under study for the countries of ernment programs, and, of. course, the Agncultural. College. . Asia, Africa, the Midle East, and through the new programs di- Volunteers assigned to this pro- . Latin America. rectly administered by the Peace Corps itself. Thus, existing pro- grams are being strengthened while new ones are being estab- lished. Ever since the cry of \ugly American\ has been echoing in the self-col1Scious ears of this Pe~ce Corps: Pitfalls Appear By Eric Toder country, the United States has been ~cutely aware that even the The Peace Corps is one of the I friends; the recent Belgrade neu- best-intended of men, if tactless most striking of the new innova- trals' confe1·ence shows only too and uninformed, can implant an tions introduced by the Kennedy well that nations receiving large unfavorable image of our nation Administration. There is little amounts of United States aid are and its goals on for~ign S?il· doubt that it has caught the pub- not immune to pro-Soviet tend- Hence, the Peace Corps Is makmg lie imagination and that many, encies. However, nations that are a special !lffort to select men and who have hoped that the United economically prosperous, or at women willing to live in close States could seize the initiative in least advancing towards better contact with and under similar the underdeveloped areas of the conditions for all classes of so- conditions as the people of Asia, world before the Soviets do, have ciety, are better equipped to resist Africa, the Middle East, and Latin been encouraged. American youth Communist encroachments. It America. has risen to the challenge set does not seem likely that the Qualifications Enumerated forth by the President. However, Peace Corps can make an quanti- before we send our college gradu- tatively significant advancement Anyone over eighteen may ap- ates rushing helter-skelter into along this line, although it will ply for the program. There is no the jungles of Tanganyika, it raise living standards in isolated educational requirement as such, might be best to consider soberly situations. hut the knowledge of a useful bot~ the attri~utes and t~e short- Propaganda Value Stressed skill and a college education are commgs and prtfalls of this plan. highly desirable qualifications. Id In a sense, the term \Peace Candidates fill out an elaborate Humphrey's ea Corps\ is a misnomer, for its real questionnaiTe covering such di- Senator Hubert Humphrey (D., purpose is to help wage the cold ve:rse items as education, profici- Minn.) first proposed the Peace war in t4e propaganda field. The ency in :foreign languages, voca- Corps Bill, \to develop a genuine theory behind it is that if Ameri- tional skills, employment, state of people to people program in which cans live and WOI'k with the peo- he<J,lth, ability in ~;~ports, and in- talented and dedicated young ple, they will become better liked. terest in useful hobbies. Candi- American men will teach basic According to this idea, most pea- dates next are interviewed and agricultural and industrial tech- pie in underdeveloped areas con- tested in centers located through- niques, literacy, English Ian- sider us to be wealthy, soft, and out the country. Upon acceptance, guage, and other school subjects indifferent and sending idealistic, the volunteer is assigned to a and sanitation and health proced- dedicated, and hard working project center and reports for an ures in Asia, Africa, and Latin young people will help form a intense training program of from America.\ Thus, the objectives of more favorable impression of ;,~ix weeks to six months in sub- the program are two fold: (1) to America. If this is indeed the jects related to his particular job. aid in the economic and educa- purpose of the program, it must Such training includes the his- tiona! development of these areas be followed with extreme caution. tory, religions, and culture of the and (2) to improve the image of The government must be certain nation to be visited. Often one is America abroad. As a means of that it selects only those volun- <'onfronted with a new language, foreign aid, this type of approach teers of the highest character and Punjabi in the case of those as- can prove to be most successful. perserverance, for the problems signed to a certain region of Rather than just giving away that face them will be difficult in- India. ·money to othe1· peoples, the Peace deed. They will have to live in India Participated Corps seeks to teach them the sci- extreme poverty. They will be 94- entific knowledge that will enable p()sed to discomfort and health Service in the Peace Corps is them to improve their own living risks. Most important, they will from two to three years, with standards. For years, the United have to exert restraint to be help- most of the time spent abroad. States has suffered from a lack ful without appearing condescend- Volunteei'S receive no regular sal- of ability to compete with the ing or superior. If we try to force they by g. ary, but Teceive an allowance ade- Russians in this field. If Ameri- our culture upon others, the re- quate to cover all necessary e4- cans are to provide technical as- suits will be extremely disap- oenses. Upon completion of t)le sistance of the kind outlined in pointing. On the other hand, if program, the volunteer will re- the Point Four . Program, which the individuals of which the Corps ceive a separate allotment based favored a similar approach, they is composed show by example· upon his time overseas, probably must be trained, not only in tech- some ()f our more efficient meth- accumulated at the rate of seven- nical and scientific subjects, but in ods of living, we may receive a ty-five dollars a month. The Peace the history, traditions, and Ian- more favorable response. Per hans Corps also makes available a joh guage of the native people. The :the Peace Corps will, indeed, aid placement service. Service in this Peace Corps is an excellent way our propaganda efforts through- ·n·ganization does not exempt one to provide qualified personnel for out the world and help halt the from the dtaft; however, under many of our aetivities abroad. spread of Communism among un- the Univet·say Military Training It ml]st be realized, however, decided peoples. It may well and Service Act, one is deferred that sending several thousand counteract the bad effects of past hecause the prog1·atn is considered Americans to remote areas around colonialism and present racial dis- \·ital to the national interest. the globe will not greatly affect crimination in the minds of the The India Project is typical of the living standards. This can Africans and Asians. those under the direct sponsorship only be done with a massive pro- Thu&; the Peace Corps is an im- of the Pence Corps. -As a result of gram of assistance. The basic porta;nt weapon in the battle to conversations between Director question is: what . is our objec- win men's minds in the underde- Shriver and Prime Minister tive? It seems fairly evident to vel oped nations. However, it can- Nehru, an initial group of twenty- this o.l;iserver that we cannot buy not succeed unless our overall pol- the Schaefer bear When it comes to cheer, Schaefer is the leader-because Schaefer is the one beer to have when you're having more than one. SCHAEFER B~EI'IIRIES, !lEW YORK AND ALBANV. l'H. CLEVELAND. OHIO

4 Book Review: English and History Lectures Instituted Alger's Antithesis By 31m:tin :Sewman lecture and recitation is expected to aid the students in several By J. C. Clemens . The> heg·inning of the academic ways. The decrease in the size of VPal' J !lfi'1-fl~ lll:il'kPcl thP im;titU-. the i'ccitation sections should i·e- tillll of IPrture~ in both History of We~tern Civilization (Histor~· lU) ~ult in a saving and a more ·effi- and Introduction to Engli>'h Liter- C'ient use of teaching time, e'limi- Someone HAD to replace King I plished fact, I strongly recommend Arthur. Realizing this, the legend thls book as an introductory guide of Horatio Al·ger wus hom to in- to the next rece~sion. still into the minds of American I · h nate at least some duplication of a tur<' ( Englhh I 0 1 · I 11 t \ ca~P elfurt, and offer a greater variet'' of Hi>tot·v 10. th!' rhange involve~ iu approach to subject matter. It going ft·;,m three reC'itati.ons. to is also felt that the institution of two leetun>' anrl 011 ~\ rerttat!On, Icctut·es will aid candidates in ma- and i'll Engli:;;h tlw rhange i:3 from jor field examinations because thr<>e rt•C'itatwn~ to one lecture !t>ctures can better cover back- and two reeita.tions. :,;om£' facts boys the value of Clean Living, T B the ul~imate ti'Uth that by Sql!are I ext ' ooks Shootmg, Honesty, and a Straight I ground e1·ents and influences, es- <'oll<'t•rning th.· ,;ize of the e asses Jll'Cially in English Literature, in these two c·om·sps must nece~- 1 Th f saril\,' J•n•cedt· tht• rea,;on:< f.or and t mn ran recitations. e pro es- T h ~ors arl' mainly intt>rested in see- opinions of thts t·hangl': 1 ~ year ing if thest• new lectures will ac- there an· l.t sPrttons m Htstory avera~rinn- )!) student>' per section tually prove to be as effeclive as ,.., ,.., recitations haYe been in the past, compared with 7 sections averag- and all those involved state eate- ing :l:l students each last year. In 1 English 10, the.re are 124 students gorically that it is too ear y to with an average of 31 students tell yet. per section. I.n H!story 10,, the Allen Sees No Loss a\'erage load remams essenttally Professor Neil Allen, Chai1·man unchanged from last year, where- of the Department of History, as in English lll it has dropped feels that \there is no loss in the from 45 hours to :l3 hours per pro- Pxpansion from 30 students in a fessor each semester. recitation section to 90 in a lec- :\Iore Efficient Teaching ture section\. Professor Harold The change from recitation to Blodgett, Chairman of the De- partment of English, states \the lecture has some_good points and thP discusion groups also have their good points, neither is per- fect, but together they comple- ment each other.\ Professor Sam- son 0. A. Ullmann of the :English Department says \in theory the rourse as currently set up should hP better because the lectures can ~rrak on more specialized topics, thus employing their backgrounds and talents to a greater extent.\ HP goes on to state that he \would not like to see English 10 with two lectures and one recitation heeause English Literature needs more discusison than does His- tory which is a more factual <'OUrSE'.\ Co-ed Writing? Time Will Tell Whether or nl>t women under- graduates at the University of Pennsylvania ·will be a!lowed to write fur the campus da1ly puper, The Daily Pennsrlvanian, remams a moot point despite \agreement in rn·ineipl~., by proponents and opponents that they should be al- lowed to. Last spring, four women part\c- ipated in a pilo~ program of .wnt- ing for the d:ulr paper destgned to lead tow;ud complete co-edu~a­ tional integ1ation o~ The Datly Penns)·lvaman. L\ntil then, only men hull wotkctl on the paper, while women \'l.'ot·lwd on a weekly paver, The Pennsylvania New!'. Tidmarsh to Play Elmer A. Tidmarsh, renowned organist and retired Union Col- IPge music professor, will give a recital at Union's Memorial Chap- el 4 PM Sunday. The public is mvited. From the Shoulder Ap!'loach, one could rise from the depths of pov- erty to the celestial heights of American society .• In the impoverished Thirties, it became obvious that the Horatio Alger stories might well have oeen \the bunk.\ Out of this epoch o f disillusion, · N athanie'l West, emerged as one of the greatest cynical writers t h a t America ;, had yet produc- . . '\.:, ed. A Cool M!.l- .- if lion is his par- - ody of the Horatio Alger legend. Today, Nathaniel West has been rediscovered. A certain indication of this is the :fact that A Cool Million has recently been pub- lished in paperba~k form. Native of Rat River Nathaniel West's four-square hero is a young lad named Lemuel Pitkin hom the small hamlet of Rat River, Vermont. In o1·der to .pay off the mortgage on the fam- ily farmouse for his widowed mother, Lemuel sets off into the world to make his fortune. Unlike Horatio Alger, Lemuel gets little more than a very thorough educa- tion for his trouble. In the course of his travels, he succeeds in get- ting scalped, losing one eye, all of his teeth, one of his feet, all of his pride, and what little money he had when he left Rat River. Before the final chapter, he has been fals~ly arrested numerous times and has beet). beaten by thugs representing the forces of capital, labor, and the Communist Party at various times. In addi- tion he discovers that his child- holld sweetheart has been sold by a white slaver into the ranks of a very fashionable brothel in New York's Chinatown. I might inter· ject here that West's description of this sumptious maison de joie is well worth the price of the book. This chapter ought to be included in the selected reading list of every brothel keeper The men's ~ uJ~rgraduate Coun· ctl appruwd tit<e p!Upusal. for mak· mg the paptt tu-etlucatwnal, but the W o!lleu::. Student Guv_ernment Associatiull (WSGAJ ratscd ob- jections. Tlu: oujectiuns were based primanly on fears that the W::il.iA nugbt have to cuntnlmte to the :;uppurt of .the yaper; that if the l'enns)l,anta :'liews fol.ded, women'£ ne\.,.~ might nut be g1ven full cov .. rag;e; ami that womcn might not ue given full opp~rtun­ ity to raise to editurml pusttJOns. Dr. Tidmarsh will play six wor]{s, including Olivier Mes- siaen's \A1'rension Day Suite,\ nevet· before played in Schenec- tady. The composer is the organ- ist at Trinity Church in Paris. 'His mystical harmonies are Rearhes Hair's Breadth s~range at first hearing, ~ut beau,~ j Lemuel's good intentions al- tlful . on furth~r acquamtanee, ways seem to b 1 ·ing him within a Dr. Ttdmarsh satd. hair's breadth of success only to Al~o on the program is ••Bur- be foiled at the last minute by gut:Jd!an Hou:~\ by Georges Jacob. wrong thlnking, debilitated, (but Thts .composition portrays a Bur- smart) city boys. His tale of woe g~~dtan .peasa?t's workday and is explodes forever the sacred myth :lt\·tded mto stx pa1·ts, \Sunrise of Horatio Alger. At the point ''GraPe gathering,\ \No1m where the reader feels that noth- ''Rain,\ \Song of the Winep1·ess,\ ing more could happen to Lemuel :md \Nightfall.\ West pulls another macabre tt·icl~ Under Fire Two patriotic groups, Texans for America and the Daughters of the American Revolution, have objected to several grade school ami high school texts because of their communistic and socialistic influence on Texas school children. Among the books the State Textbook Committee was asked to reject is a high school history text by a Southern Methodist Un- iversity professor, J. Evetts Haley, a leader of Texans for America. It object~d ~o the book on the grounds that its author had \Com- munist-front connections.\ Ac- cording to the publisher of the text in question, the organization Haley mentioned is not on the At- torney General's list of subversive groups. Loyalties Question The written objection to the book read in part: \We further object to this book because recog- nized authorities on subversion have pointed out that statements, associations and affiliations of the 'above named vditers (mentioned in the text) have called their lc~y­ alties into question.\ The statement listed the fol- lowing \questionable\ writers: Sherwood Anderson, Maxwell An- derson, Stephen Benet, Ralph Bunche, Aaron Copeland, Bruce Bliver, Jr., Henry S. Commager, Charlie Chaplin, Theodore Dreis- er, W. E. Dodd, A. Einstein, Wil· liam Faulkner, Dorothy Canfield Fisher, Ernest Hemingway, Sin- clair L~wis, A) ian Nevins, Eugene O'N'eil, Paul Robeson, Upton Sin- clair, Ida M. Tarbell, Carl Sand- burg and· Willa Ca:ther. The publisher, in rebuttal, said: \The p~r~ons listed here were se· le<.:ted fur inclusion on the basis uf their stature in their chosen fields. Their .political philosophy was in no way involved.\ He also pointed out that, \To discuss, for example, American literature, without mentioning Theodore Dreiser, Eug;ene O'Neil, Sherwood Anderson, Sinclair Lew- is, Carl Sandburg, Ernest Hem- ingway, or Willa Cather would be highly misleading to the student.\ A New York restaurant has come up with a world series change of pace. A sign in the window reac;Js: \Dining without the World Senes -No T-V or radio here.\ Friday, Octe»ber 6, 1961 Letter to the Editor . To the Editor ·of Conc()rdi_ensis: all people. This system enables a The announcement that Union's: nation of imigrants to become homogt;lneous. It prevented the ·tuition wil'l I'ise to $r4()0 next formation of strict class lines as September makes me .doubt the in the Bl'itish and Continental .future strength of pl'iifate under-, .::Lvsterns of the ;past, graduate education in this coun-: Up till now this tradition has try. As Pre;;ident Davidson point-. been emried throl!gh into college ed out in his ann01meement, Un-· N · h 11 db th ion's move is not isolated· nor Um- too. ·OI'.' • Jt is c a enge · Y e ited to smaller institutions, fur· threat that exaggerated college u::;ts ,present to the middle class. our •great Universities also cha·rge 1 emphasize :the midc:lle class be- simil'ar and often larger tuitions. .-ause we are a middle class na- I voice my fear, however, that' h ·b t. the fantastic cost .of education, a!-, tion, w ose great aontrl u ors have arisen from the immigrant ways a burden to most mid<l!e class, ,·]ass which has now trmtsferred .families accepted dutHully, is now n astounding completeness to the approaching a point wl1ere many middle class. middle class families cannot sup- At this same time, however, we port one full time college student d · · h --or must decide between the· ed- . are engage m an mtense tee. - uc~ttion of one or the other of a nological revolution In science and .number of college age ehildren. . industr;y. A nation that once only needed to read to .grow now needs There have always been schol- · to h,ave a rigorous trl!!ining in spe- arships to aid lower class stu-' cialized skills. Even the less di- dents to attend colleg-e and the rected \Ubei·al arts\ education de- development of the New York· mands a high degree of sophlsti- State Regents' program has given, cation to train the minds of those financial succor to tlte' middle who will participate in the guid- dass. These scholarships cannot ance of our society. The dilemma compete with the 1·ising costs •. is plain: rising costs are forcing Even as Union announced its $150 · the vast middle clas out of pri- increase the State begins a new vate institutions at a time when .Scholarship Incentive Plan which that type . 0 f education is needed will give a minimum (}I $100 per· most. Where does the middle class year. However, we cannot expect. turn {or its education? To the the State to match future .tuition, free or ,J 0 w cost state supported raises so convenien:tly (if incom-· unive 1 :sities. However, the exist- pletely). Even mot\e serious is, ing state university system can- the ·effect on the col!ege~s own not possibly absorb the influx of scholarship funds which derivP middle clas students unable to their income from- the earn- pay a high tuition. The sjgns of ings of some sizable ~apital in-· this are ~]ready .upon us. In New vestment of a yeady gift. The york City .the high school average five year increase of 751Jr in tui- necessa1·y to insure admission to tion does not compare favorably a City College has already risen with the rise in the same period past 87%! I question the ability of any long te1-m investment. (The of any institution to maintain best bonds pay 5o/c/annum, some present academic standards if it stocks as much as 8'/c, :l'eal estate, is forced to select its students somewhat more.) Uni<>n College from :but one economic class. The will thus have prop()r!;ionately trend would then be to poorer pri- less scholarship money to aid vate institutions while the state needy students. Tile }lercentage · uni·versities would have increafi- of scholarship students will nee- ingly high standards but be forced essarily drop for the college's re- to turn away the great majority sources are lii:nited. Union, and of students who must be trained if other schools, \ill tum to the up- we are to remain a strong, scien- per-middle and upper income tifically based nation groups for a growing number of The immediate answer seems to students. Only a hand.:liul of low be state aid to private education. income students and a somewhat However, I implore the investi- larger group of middle income gation <Jf other solutions. For ex- students will study at a school ample, the expansion of the long that formerly could support a term loan plan might be enacted much more representative frac- before the fate of institutions like tion of available collegE material. Union is sealed by the socializa- What effect will this have upon tion of education. The loan plan Union? ~ the nation? I recall makes sense when one views edu- the opinion of the Atn'E'rican his- cation as an investment which torians who believe that one of pays for itself several fold-at a the strengths of Ame1·ica has been later ti.rne. the free public educatitln open to Asher R. Sheppard '63 RECORDS FOR YOUR EVERY MOOD • After a series of attempts . to have the W ~GA approve the ~n· tegration of the paper, The Dally Pennsylvanian published an OJ?en letter to women students saymg in part: \Our mtentions are and have always been to open the newspaper to '\Yumen .. To accom- plish this we IV'tll cuns1der all pro- posPd plans, hut we refuse to. m- dulge m fut·ther stenle hagghng. \From th i> point on these is little more we can do. In all hon- esty, in all s;nrt•rity, we tr1ed to give women the opportumty .to wrtte for their eamjJus' only daii,Y newspaper. \Ve must now adnut failure. Although we can n~ long- er p••rnut any women ~o wnte. for The Daily J•ennsylvaman - smce one sul'l1 mJi vidual has_ already been threatem•<i with Judtctary ac- tion - w~. 1rill always hold the door open. Other works on the program out of his sto1·ehouse of cynicism. N ° T I C E ! . ..tre \Toccata in D-minor\ and For this reason A Cool Million ALL FRESH:\1E:S - Reqmred ''Sheep May Safely Graze\ by J. will be rough g~ing for the opti- 1 :\leeting with Dean Huntley to , S. Bach, \~uages\ by Claude De- mist, but for those who feel that ' choose advisers. b!-Issy! and :•sunshine Toccata\ by the repeal of the Marquis of I M0::-1 .• OCT .. 9 at 12:00 i'i'oon Folk Music - Jazz - Classical At Union Discounts RPI Invitation The R.P.I. c-las!l of '6 t has cor- diallY i1n·itoed the ~tudents and facuitv of l'n ion to their annual Homt>roming WPekt>tui. On Sat· urdu,., Octnlwr 2 I. HI' I w.ill com· pete· against l'nion. in several sport.- t•Hn1s, ;ncludtng football, track, and svccrr. Included in thP weel•e111l will be the !!ala llomemming Dance, fea- turing :\Ir. \SV~ing n' ~wa:(' gammy 1\.ayr. Though hr IS s.ttll the number ollt' 1''\ponent of swmg and swav, al~o included in his repertoire will be jazz. rock and roll, \hich he says is \just an- other varietv of the samE> old jazz·· and othf.'r kings of rhythms and 'sounds. Thr dance will be in- formal (suits) and tickets are $5.50. t. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES • RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY • PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or Call Fraternity Jewelers 171 Marshall St., Syracuse, N. Y. Phone GRanite 5-7837 f ermm Swmnen. berry rules is an accom- l\lemo!'lal Chapel EXCLUSIVE • • • BUT, NOT EXPENSIVE Featuring University Selections of: Challis Neckwear British Traditionals Botik Sportshirts Matched Plaid Overshirts Snap Tap Oxford Dress Shirts Ivy and Conventional Slacks That's EDDYD 164 Jay Street MEN'S SHOP ~11.: Show Union Identification Card and get Exclusive 10 per cent off on all merchandise. Reg. 3.98-3.50 Reg. 4.98-4.2·5 Reg. 5.98-5.00 45 RPM's- .85 TAPE- Professional Quality at 'Wholesale Prices • DIAMOND NEEDLES • TRANSISTOR RADIOS • PHONOS . • SPEAKERS ALL AT SPECIAL PRICE'S Come down and browse around. State Street at Corner of Broadway Phone FR 7~1112 Union SUCCUI ander field h Bat~ A Union' an expectec decision to before a n• thusiastic J Quarterbac must be rig anY}llace thi sub-par pa lhat wrote \ aspirations f victory. Con1 the blitzing often off-tar down plays ~ bogged dow started. To 1 his accurate by over-anx· putting the r'ather bleak Swift Hat general, tool merous Garn and passes i downs late ir which Unio· Bates' third intercepted : two plunges yard line · Memery. D The scorel in the dosin~ dreary enc< qua1terback lested for a : the Maine ei i11gless score fied Dill's found Iackin st~rting fot Cries of \Di inated from fans, but Dil replacement J trois when tl American nc occasional I'e Coach JoE some pessim: he reported probably the face this sea any easy ont In evaluatin forts, the Un \We made ot particularly c we're workin Maras j'ugg throughout t tempt to fin bination, but tests that n covered to J high gear. A halfback PetE of the secon dimmed Gal picked up 38 second only Eales who sl gain of 49 Yl deal of mint: was foreed t< the red-dogg worked the near perfecti• net in the ga Prior to scamper, the tration was yard stripe. resulted fron: punt by Uni< ior lineman ,. job, despite playing sha] pigskin to t the Bates 3~ i9 and passE Pike to the o tack stalled ever, as Eale ww pass attt n.et was fo1•c ball. This : part from Ur el' back on th quez who cot pick up thos< Leaky pass to the Bobcat passing of H

1961 a become the as ental has college by the college class. be- na- to the we tech- and only needs spe- less di- de- those guid- forcing of pri- when needed class To the pported exist- can- of to of In New to r:isen ability if it ss. The pri- state forced if scien- eems to ucation. investi- For ex- long enacted ons like plan ws edu- which a :Frlday, Oc:tobf):!f 6; 1961 Union succumbs to strong Bates defense and· ,pass offense at Alex· ander field last Saturday. · Bates Victor, 20-6; Alfred Totnorro-w By Dave Thurston Union's hopes for a winning season this year received an ~~pected setback last Saturday as they dropped a 20-6 decisiOn to a .strong Bates College team at Alexander Field before a near-capacity crowd of somewhat less than en- thusiastic grid fans. <e>··------------ Quarterback Dave Eales, who overlooked. Hathaway completed must be right for Union to go on 9 of 20 attempts, good for anyplace this year, turned in a 175 yards. Eales was successful sub-par passing performance on but 8 of .26 tries for only 106 that wrote \finis\ to any Garnet yards, nullifying Union's ad- aspirations for an opening garne vantage in the rushing depart- victory. Continually harassed by ment, 153 to 107. the blitzing Bobcats, Eales was Ray Gilmartin and Jack often off-target on crucial third- Sbrega operated well in Maras' down plays and the Union attack wingback formation as the duo bogged down before it ever picked up a big chunk of the started. To make matters worse, Garnet ground yardage. Pike his aecurate aerials were bobbled petformed capably at the foreign by over-anxious receivers, thus fullback slot and was ably as- putting the final touches on a sisted by Chick Swain. Defen- J'ather bleak afternoon. sive standouts for the Dutchmen Swift Hathaway, Bates' field included Bob Bownmn, Norm general, took ad,•antage of nu- Lavery and Pat Fantauzzi, ex- merous Garnet defensive miscues area high school gridder. Dave and passes for a pair of touch- Tewksbury and Pete Wagner downs late in the first half, from turned in a creditable job at the which Union never recovered. center post, smoothing some of Bates' third TD resulted from an the wrinkles on Maras' brow. interceptE'd Fred Dill pass and Union travels today to tangle two plunges from the Union 4 with a tough Alfred eleven to- yard line by Fullback Doug. morrow on the foes' home Memery. grounds. Alfred holds the dubious Dill Scores distinction of snapping a three year Union losing streak last fall, losing 21-13 at Alexander Field. The upstaters are still smartin~ from the embarass- ment and will pr.obably be up for the impi·oved Dutchmen this year. Alfred goes into the game with 20-0 win oYer Brockport Teachers, scourge of Slippery Rock football circles for several years and hardly the caliber of the likes of Bates. Chances look favorable for Homecoming fans to see a .500 ball club, one week hence. The scoreboard lit for Union in the closing two minutes of the dreary encounter when .. Sub- qualterback Dill legged unmo- lested for a sixty-yard jaunt into the l\l[aine end zone for a mean- ingless score. The play exempli- fied Dill's speed and agility, found lacking at times in the starting four last Saturday. C1•ies of \Dill at halfl;>ack\ em- inated from the elated Union fans, but Dill is a most valuable replacement for Eales at the con- trols when the small college All- American nominee requires an occasional 1·espite. Coach Joe Maras expressed some pessimistic optimism when he reported that \Bates was probably the toughest team we'll Soccermen Downed, 8-1 face this season, but I don't see A 8 1 h k b h 0 any easy· ones on the schedule.\ n - set- ac y t e neonta soccer team last Tuesday was an In evaluating his charges' ef- inauspicious start for the Union forts, the Union mentor admitted, soccel' team \We made our share of mistakes, c · 1 • d d particularly on pass defense, but ontmua ram an a mud Y we're working to correct them.\ field hampe1·ed the conditions for Maras juggled his backfield a good socecr game The Oneonta throughout the game in an at- team played a short game, keep- tempt to find the winning com- ing the heavy leather ball in con- bination, but the final score at- trol among its teammates Their tests that no solution v.ras un- greatest assets were their fast covered to get the squad into break plays and adeptness· in pass- high gear. A leg injury lost ace ing and controiling the ball when halfback Pete Butg-Wald for most inside of Union's defense zone. of the second half and further The Union team played a hustling dimmed Garnet hopes. Burgy game and had possession of the picked up 38 yards in 11 carries, ball most of the game. But be- second only to the elusive Mr. cause of its long passing strategy Eales who showed a net ground the team was unable to control gain of 49 yards, despite a great the ball on the wet ground around deal of minus yardage when he the Oneonta goal area. was forced to eat the football by Oneonta scored 2 quick goals in the red-dogging Bobcats. Eales the first few minutes of the game. worked the option roll out to The second quarter, Oneonta near perfection to keep the Gar- again quickly netted another past net in the game most of the way. Co-Captain' and goal tender Bill P1·ior to Dill's spectacular Cohen. Claude Echard, a HELP scamper, the farthest Union pene- student from France, took the tration was to the visitor's five honors for Union by scoring a yard stripe. This advancement penalty kick which was the only resulted from a partially blocked point for the Dutchmen. The 3rd punt by Union's Bob Lebel, sen- and 4th quarte1·, the Oneonta team ior lineman who turned in a fine scored 5 goals to make the final job, despite not being in top score 8-1. playing shape, that gave the The defense of the Union s~ccer pigskin to the home forces on team which showed considerable the Bates 35. Eales ran to the weakness before Union;s first t9 and passed to Fullback Tom game, was well fortified Tuesday Pike to the opponents' 5. The at- by Helber and Terpening who tack stalled right there, how- both played an outstanding game. ever, as Eales was smothered or! This Saturd,ay the Dutchmen tow pass attempts, and the Gar· bootm·s will be facing Middlebury li.et was fo1•ced to relinquish ·the which has one of the finest soccer ball. This failure resulted in teams in the east. And with Coach part from Union's lack of a pow- Witzel returning to the field, aft- ei' back on the order of Bob Mar- er being ill for the past few days, q~ez who could be counted on· to to patch up the loopholes on the pick up those last few yards. team, the action on the field this Leaky pass defense contri·buted Saturday will be one of the finest to tJ:e Bobcat scores, but the fine· soccer games played at Union this passmg of Hathaway can not be year. R·ound-a-Bout By Jim Strosberg The Intra-mural football league lack of got off to a start with all Open- back. ing Day games rained out. I Swimmers Start Fall Workout a super-strong running * ,'Today's contests include Kappa Union students will be treated 'Nu vs .. Phi Sigma Delta, Beta to a fine exhibition of sOt'l:Pr skills Theta Pi vs. Phi Gamma Delta, as Middlebury, one of the great- Delta Chi vs. Sigma Chi, and Psi est teams in the East, eumes to ·Upsilon vs. Alpha Delta Phi. Schenectady to help the Garnet Game time is 4:45 PM on Achille:; Buot~n; iuuuguratc tl!!:!ir home By Lloyd Nurick Field in front of South College. season. Kickoff time i:s 0 Pl\1 on '-' * * * Daley Field. One hour ear.!ier, at '!-'he first day .of classes at l:Jnion College not only her- alds m a new year for academic work, but also physical work, for in addition to the football and i:loccer teams the swimming team has workouts. Now in the second we~k of practice, the team is beginning to round out. Phy:sical exhaustion and pain%---- Union students unable to traYel 2 PM, the FrC\shmcn team will to Alfred, New Y.otk, tomorrow faee off against Darrow Arademy, for the football game, will be able of Massaehu~etts. Probahle ~tm·t- are reaching a minimum as the' . . , . . , athletes' bodies begin to shuck' Kal ~chnc>HIPr' and Will Grant, theit' summer indolence. Muscles I both ll!edal .wmnPI's ut la~t year's are beginning to show where I champwn,;hipli, are ·pushmg, them- previously the1·e was nothing but: selves, beyont.l the usual work- skin and. perhaps a little fat. II out. Gran~ has been out of tht! • to listen to it on the radio. WRUC Prs for the Varsity include: John announcers Dick Kesslen and Raul, outside ·left; Claudl' Eehard : Dana Shaw and technician Rick inside left Pete Bishko. rentr~ ' Wilcox will broadcast the game. forward; AI Brown, inside right; Kickolf time is 2.:00 PM. Last Harwy Hayden, outside right; year, in the .first meeting between Rog Fitch, left halfback; Abe Ter- the two schools, Union \von, 21-13. penning, center halfback; Ed Lip- This Yictory, ended a Garnet los- ton, right hal.fbaek; John Nelson, i~g streak extending oYer three left fullba~k; Pat Dugan, right seasons. fullback; Btll Cohen, goal. This season, foi· the first time, w~ter dunn~ th1s \\'eek, because the mermen will have meets m;· of a .foot InJury, but he haH ~een early as December. The fellows '~orku_Jg . out ·on land e~ere1~e!'· know this and· are determined to ~rhn~Idei m th~ meant1m~, IS better their poor record of last teachmg. the pomt where m a year, which was only one win in few .mme days ?e shoul~ be ten meets. l'eachmg last years peak ttmes. * * * * * * * * All f U · ' 1961 'd' Members of the Union College Fogelson's Predictions 0 mon s gl'l tron op- Delphic Society '\I'll act as Cheer- ponents were active last weekend. ' The results of Saturday's games· leaders for all remaining home. include Alfred 20, Brockport football games. The Delphics are Teachers 0; Hamilton 24, Roches- attempting \to induce more spec- ter 24; Ithaca 19, Hobart 6; St. tator participation in cheering at Lawrence 26, RPI 0; Trinity 8, athletic contests, and thus reac~i- Williams 6. yate school spirit,\ Society Pres- * ,, * * 1dent Edward Shapiro stated. The By Andy Fogelson Williams vs. :Springfield Things are looking up for the Williams contingent this year, but not that far. SPRINGFIELD. Army vs. Michigan Probable starting line-ups for Delphics will make their initial the Alfred game, as of last Wed- appearance in this unique capacity nesday, includes: ends, Rudy Um- 0 !1 Homecoming Weekend, when scheid and Norm Lavery; tackles. eJght members will assist Head Chuck Hanle and Bob Carter; Cheerleader Ollie Bunch in cheer- guards, Marshall l\iansolillo and ing the Garnet on to victory over ·Pat Fantauzzi; center, Dave the University of Rochester. Army, among the best in the East comes up against the near- best in the Midwest. Big Ten football is among the finest in the country. A close one to MICHIGAN. Tewksbury; quarterback, Dave :Eales; halfbacks, Pete Burgwald and John Sbrega, fullback, Tom Pike. One possible last minute switch by Coach Joe Maras, would be to play Chick Swain at full- back and put Tom Pike in the wingback position. * * * Freshman Team To Play Darrow Columbia vs. Princeton Princeton lost a tough one to Rutgers last week, while the Light Blue completely shattered a weak Brown eleven. This one The prevailing feeling on this could be close, but the verdict: year's freshmen soccer team is COLUMBIA. It has been heard that Bruce that of ~autipus. optimism. Tony Iowa Ys. USC Allison, Varsity Wrestling and Turner, m this hts second year as Fe1·guson and Company should Lacrosse Coach and Freshman frosh coach, heads a talented ex- be much too strong for the inex- Football Coach, will replace Hal perieneed team that ought t~ do perieneed Trojans. lOW A. Whittner as Director of Physical at least as well as last year's UCLA vs. Ohio State Education. Mr. Whittner, whose team, which registered a 3-1-1 This one could be close. UCLA tenure at Union exceeds two gen- record. has a fine ehance for the Rose eration of sons of Minerva, is re- The squarl of 2fl men sports a Bowl, w.hile Ohio FRate continual- tiring at the end of this academic forward line in which all mem- ly has onP of the finE'l'lt tE'ams in year. Some not-so-wishful think- hers have played high school ball. the t'OUntry. ThP non to OHIO ing on the part of some freshmen The ~tandnuts on the line inelude STATE. indicates an expected increase in \Chris Due::;enhury at center half Yale vs. Brown the intensity of the sophomore ·a position where Union has al~ Despite Yale's high graduation physical training program for wa~s. hee~ strong. The right wing losses, they are still the team to next year. positiOn IS ably filled by John beat in the Ivy League. Brown's * * ~arey, while the inside right 5 0-0 loss to Colwnbia tells the IS a toss-up between Frank Wal- rest. YALE. Although the first swimming meet is not until December 6 • against Williams, and the first scheduled practice is not until No- vember 1, when Tony Turner com- pletes his duties as Freshman soccer coach, the Mermen have been working out in Foote Me- morial Pool under the guidance of Ll~yd . Nurick, veteran· varsity sw1mmmg manager. Kal Schneider, high-point man on last year's squad, has broken his 50-yard freestyle mark after only one week of training. His ne>y ti!lle is a closely guarded SWlmmmg team secret. A newcomer to the swimming team is Fletcher Harrison Espen- sheid. of Cherry Valley, Illinois, a former Interscholastic All-Ameri- can swimmer. Fletcher is turning in better than average times dur- ing the preseason workouts,-even though he keeps his feet in an in- nertube to strengthen his arm muscles. * * Many spectators at the Bates game might have wondered why Bob Hulland was sitting on the bench. Bob is suffering from a toe injury which possibly could keep him on the disabled list for the entire season. Holland was supposed to occupy the new wing- back position, devised by Coach I l\iaras to alleviate the Garnet's : ter and Ron Tebbutts At center ALSO: . forward is West German-born Navy over Miami (Fla.) Rolf Kasper and at inside left Georgia Tech o~·er LSt.:. eit~er Seville Simonds or George Notre Dame oveT Purdue. ~rtgmore. The left wing spot is Oklahoma over Iowa State. filled by southpaw kicker George Wisconsin over Indiana. Posner. Arkansas over TCU. This year's schedule sees Union Texas over Washington State. face Darrow, Colgate, Rochester SMU over Air Force. R.P.I. (twiee) and Northwood' Missouri over California. .however Coach Turner would Pittsburgh over Washington.' make no prediction. He did admit Cornell over Harvard. that .Colgate, )Vith its great em- Bucknell over Colgate. phasi,s on soccer, should be the Penn State over Boston U. team .s toughest, foe. . , Pennsylvania over Dartmouth. T~ts, Saturday s opener agamst I .Syracuse over Maryland. ~arlO\\ at 2:00 P.M. should pro- Wesleyan over Bowdoin VIde; the answers concerning the 1 BEST BET: Yale rninus vi points squad. , over Brown. SAN REMO COFFEE HOUSE Exotic Teas Coffees Pasterries Cakes Featuring THURSDAY THRU SATURDAY HEDY WEST Direct from Village .Gate in New York JAZZ CONCERT SUNDAY FROM 7·1 I Open Tuesday thru Sunday, 8 P. M .• ? Phone for Reservations PRIZES: WHO WINS: RULES: 1st Prize - 1 Decca Stereophonic 4-speed hi filedity console phonograph 2nd Prize - 1 Polaroid Camera Model 80/B 1st Prize will be awarded to. any group, fraternity, sorority or individual .accumulating the highest number of points , 2nd Prize will be awarded to cny group, fraternity, sorority or individual accumulating the second highest number of points. 1. Contest open to all students. IN THE COLLEGE BRAND ROUND· UP 2. Each empty package submitted on Marlboro Parliament or Alpine will hc1re a value of S points. Each empty package on Philip Morris Regular or Commander will have a value of 10 points. Get on the BRANDWAGON • • • it's lots of fun I 3. Closing date, time and location wh<iOre empty packages must be turned in: Campus ·Book Store, Thursday, Nov. 9, 1961, 12 to 2 PM . 4. Entries will not be accepted after dosing time. Empty packages must be submitted in bundles of SO. Separate your 5 .anti 1 0 point packages. Lettermen Return Back out for the team this year is Dave Henderson, the only senior regular, and a member of the record 400 yard ft·eestyle re- lay team of 1960. Other 1e:tter men from last year's team are expected to show form in the near future. They a1·e Don Banz- haf, Jerry Bock, Larry Gilman, and Steve Zuckerman. Anivals from last years' fresh- man team include John Boles, John Drieir Mike Miller, Dick Beane, and L~ur~n Hollingei\ all members of wmmng relays in the state meet last year. Also out for the team are AI Denker, Bob Sil- verburg, Wayne Smith, Gordon Puis, Jerry Heckler, and Eric Teieholz. Dave Warmflash and Eric Angell are the two Sopho- more divers, who are highly praised by Coach Tony Turner, himself an Olympic diver for Great Britain in 1952. This year's schedule consists of 11 meets; 2 in December, 2 in January, and the rest in Febru- ary, except the traditional last meet against RPl in March. For the first time this year, Harpur College will swim against Union. No prediction of this season's reeurd ha:s or can be made as of yet, Lut the boys are confident that they will better last year's record of one win in ten meets . They'll never take this great classic away from men who know their fashion! We've an authentic collection. ~all~ Gentlemen and Gentlewomen 1599 UNION STREET I I '

Friday, October 6, 196 Political I Conservatism Frosh • • • Aims . · · ocus Starts Art Show The same week that Newsweek (Continue4 fro~ Page 1). (Continued from Page 1) · :featured a story about the rising stJ·esse~ that. mtervie\:s O!l cam- and encouragement they need to F. st Year ,.... 0 B· e -ere- Forum ' tide of Conservation on college pus with himself 01 his col- realize their full potential for use-. · 1r · : • . ~ ~ · . · ~ 4 campuses a group of 70 under- leagues, John f\1· Parker and Cal- fulness and service both to so- ' graduate;, representing 33 col- v_in . q. Schmidt, hold !1° ~_ore ciety and to themselves.\ , The plans and purposes of the Union Colege will open its C colleges, assembled at Brown Uni- SI_gmficance tha1 an mte!Vlef Basically, \'Union College will Ql'gal}ization For the Orientation rent art exhiibtion season 4-6 Onvenes versity for a four day conference fwen by an a umnus out 0 remain primarily an undergrad- of College and University Stu- Sunday with a collection I on \Goals for Americans.\ own. uate, residential, non-demonina- :FOCUS, were reviewed a-t. European and American co:ntE!m-r . . . Strangely, the \GoldwateriEJm\ Statistics Disclosed tiona! and fnterracia:l institution a meeting -last Tuesday. po~·ary paintings, Wayne K. The Poht1cal Forum of .Umon that has been flooding the news- C · h f h 1 for men.\ The size of the school The aim of FOCUS, as conceiv- ack, assistant professor of Co llege held tts first meetl_ng o. f I stands was I·n 11\-ttle evl'dence, as oncernmg t e res man c ass 'II b . d 1 if th' d d d I the Admissions Director made WI · · e Increase .on Y · Is can ed by alumnus Fred Powell of the ::J;nnounce to ay. the year We nesc ay evemng 10 the report of the conference dem- the following information avaH- be done without diluting the International Relations Club is to The exhibition, which is Bailey Hall. The Forum 18 a non- i onstrates. able: 300 men of the class of quality of students. During the unite interested st!ldents,. scholars to the public, is called the pt~rti,;au \ 1 '!JiHllizatiun composed I Held during the spring vaca- 1965 came from 223 secondary next decade, it is expected that. and po!itica·l leaders to review, International.\ It is on loan ot bot)l tlw \ oung !Jem~crats a?d tion, the conference consisted of schools. All but 47 men came Union wiH attain a maximum en- discuss and evaluate the problems the Olsen Foundation of the 1 oung Rt>~ubl!euns. It plO- five three-hour discusions, with fr0m public schools and 81% of rollment of approximately . of an area of .significant interna- Haven, Conn., and will be vules ~~ means lor both groups to I the entire group split into three the class ranked in the top quar- students. . tional concern. This year, Latin ·played in Union's Old Chap~! m.el•t lot· dts~·us 1 ,;un and for e\en. ts I sectiens, Three lectures were giv- tet· of their class in high school. To Maintain Superiority America will 'be the interest of lery through Nov. 1. of. mutual tntL·re:;t. . The Forum en: one each by President emeri- The college board mean scores FOCUS. It is hoped that through Represented in the show are wtll make an ef~ort to analyze tus of Brown Henry Wriston; showed 590 in verbal and 630 in Concerning the faculty, Union contact with these people, a bet• such European and AmeTican ali· contemporary poltttt•s and to find former Seeret~ry of the Army, mathematics. Achievement test College \must seek constantly to teL· comprehen:sion of intel'national ists as Lee Krasner, wife the part th.t• student ean play 1 .n I Frank Pace; and the head of the n1ean scores were 559 in Eng- recruit, retain, and strengthen a problems will result. Jackson Pollark; Suzanne :1 d,el!lorn.~tr 1-ylvt·l:nnwnt, espec 1 - Twentieth Century Fund, August !ish, 612 in Social Stu~ies, 623 ~~E::~o~fl~~hi~;co&~~ug~cl·\ Re- Th~ FOC_US program will be champ, sister of Marcel vttcn:anlp; <til) m lm ,t po 1~1r:s. - j Hecksher. in advanced math, 591 m chem- r . • . culmmated m a three day lecture- Alberto Burri, Marino . On thl' tPntatt\'e s:·hpdule out:, In his upening statement, Wris-. is~ry, 572 in Physics and 586 in . At present, Umon IS one of ~he I discusison set'ies, March 9 _ 11 , Afro Mathieu, John Ferren, Mi · lmed at thP lllt·etllll(' an• speeches 1 ton, who headed President Eisen- ·I H1olegy. Th.e number ?f stu- ftw f1r~t ra~e schools ro~bmmg 1962 , which will be attended by iam Schapiro, and Manouchl· ~JY tl,w eandulatt·~- lLll' ,the !!Jlc·om-1 bower's Commission on National dents acceptmg scholarshtp~. was ~·~ . e~gmee!' 1 .ng schoo~ With a_~ I Yifliting p1·ofessors and guest stu- Yektai 1nh :-:ch•·no·rt;~<ly < 11,· < ouncli <>kc· , lioul:,; underlined the necessity to 78, and 34 freshmt:n are uti·hZing .n ts and snences umt that 1s 1 dents from colleges within New The paintings were purchas t ion<. Th<' annual Bmc:kt>tt ~.t'<'- I think' ea~h problem out instead loans. 55'/( of the freshmen ~gually strong, and. not a!l aux- York and nearby New England. by Fred Olsen, an American turP. whl<'h brought :\ew 'r o~k I uf simply adhering to the liberal hold New York Sta!e Regents l!tary_. The ~<'hool wtll contmu~ to Among the speakers to appeaor nessman whe is avidly · · 1 ::-tall' l'o!nptroliPr· Arthur Lentt I line. Sensing thP tenm· of the scholarships. The h1gh. sc~ool I~mam so. ~o meet the \obhga- will be Jose Mora, Secretary Gen- in art, Nowack said to. thP l !ll<•n ~·amllll!' )ast yPar, group, Wriston appeared to try reco~·ds of the cla~s a:e the h1gh- ttc;m to s~p~nor st.udents, efforts eta! of the Organization of Amer- In the introduction to the w!ll hopelull~· te.attuy etthe~ Sen- :o exert a moderate influence est m the schools h1story. w1U begm_ ·~mmed1a:tely to create ican States. Other activities will hibition, Olsen states: \At ator JavJtt>' or h.l•attng. This lee- I :hroughout the session . The academic record of the an . efl'ectne Honors Program. tentatively include films on Latin time in the world's history ttun· 'tv,dll ''r'' la,·la·!lal~lt\ l~ot~ t·hnele~nt- I The first problem treated in the class of 1964 shows th~t 1?1 ?ft ,.,l.doanpatledpatttoel·tnhse anCdollpergoeg'sl·amedsu,~a- American countries and their there been such a ll'P • 11 Pn \lC ~. '' ,t d ' - . Jiscusiun rou :; was that of the 312 men made Deans tst 1!1 ' . . . problems aitd a Latin American artistic creation. At no In \'.~ tl1a lll\ngram w1ll hP turned I l't fg P t 't Alth h thn 1 • 1 . fi'rst uear '\hi\le 9 '\e 1 ·n The College rerogmzes that f h' h . 1 ·' It . the performance of the a . ,_ , U ~ \ \ \ c· extracurrl'cula!· act!'\I'tl'es are a::> JOn S OW anu . ua-nce, . IS \ver to dJ~custDn groups to tal\e e~uafit .Y 1 °. op~o\utlth t·'~Tg dropped because'of poor scholar- -• 1 d h h U R garde artists seemed to break up five of l'rP>'id~nt Ken1wdy's 1 t ct dnat Iefpot ths a e d\ a' f ar- ship and 14 withdrew requisite to a we!lcbalanced edu-:· wpe ~t at. t e . 1110 dn evte\: a sharply with past tradition or · .. · ge a es or e en mg 0 en- ' cational prog-ram. It also realizes' new l!lagazme cteat~ to express be so removed from the maJor pn~gi:tms. . fol'ced segregation within the that the me-asure of all activi• the Vle~s of those m the college standab!e' or 'recog-nizable' art The pnnctpal ,;peaker<\ mtro- coming decade in various areas f'r Ch ties is \Do they contribute use- commun_tty on C<?ntemp<_Jrary prob- the majority. due .. d by Fo>rlllll ( hall·man Llo~·d will have to be set by the Federal 'l.Aamnus . est fully and siJ?;nificantly to the in- lems, wtll C!l!ltatn I:eprmts of the \Curently the American Xuril'k, W<'l'< 1!,,,\-ard Daffner and government . . · \ one group :1:' tellectual, .physical and social add~~esses of keynote sp~ak~rs~ in abstract expressionism is f:.~ul .B:IIt: 1 Y· .Bnth held ~ummer adopted the propo:;al that the Union's Campus Chest Drive, experiences which in the aggre- $l.ooU has been alloted to HO~U:s brought sharply to JoL~ Ill Wa.>\lllngtc!n and .told of year 1965 be set as the final date formerly run by the Delphic So- gate constitute the learning pro- by th~ Studen~ Tax Commtttee tention. This thy 11 • l'Xpent·tKe.;; 10 the nty and for a beginning of desegregation. ciety, is now under the direction cess at Union College?\ It is for this enterpnse. th U S .~~~~f:mri:~i~~til~iJ wtth the Congr<>ssmen. The opposition to this measure of the Campus Religious Council. also recognized that perhaps the . at ethe 'nr.u _,;,; 1 ,. Daffuer workt-d for Senator was centered around the Harvard The drive chairman, Gary van greatest 'opportunity for stu- in other Humphrey, and Bultay worked for delegation, one member of which Gendt, has been actively forming dents to exercise responsibility, Skellar 0 • • pean centers. Congres:;man Strutton, of the was a southerner, and the Vassar his committee since last spring. maturity and judicious manner is -------- Sehenel'tad~· district. Baltay, who delegation. To their assertions Presently, van Gendt's primary through the fraternity system. As (Continued from Page 1) is \\Titing; a biographical paper on that the \southerner must be giv- objective is to educate the campus the \Mother of Fraternities\ vin Schmidt, adviser to the Stratton, spoke of the opportuni- en every consideration,\ it was to a few important facts about Union Co!Ieg-e \has an obligation Rathskeller Organization. , ty for students to work and learn answered that the southern Negro the drive, they are: both to its local chapters and to Dean Pollack said that he and in thl' Capital City. There are also deserved consideration, per- C Ch . h 1 the system as a whole to im- Ml·. Schmi'dt '\ere attempting to 'I Ll f h h h h' 1) ampus est IS t e on y ' many jobs ava1 a e or anyone aps more t an t e w rte. · · press. fraternity members. with 1 ·nterest a catei'ing service in tak- . · · 't \ charitable orgamzat10n on cam- with the necessary mgenm Y· In the discussion about educa- pus. It is comparable to the Com- the 1mport~nce of .adaptmp; to ing over the Sk-l!ller in an opera- \Wa helon~s to the Con- tion, the group took two signifi- munity Chest of the business new trends m educational and so- 1 tive capacity. Theit: offer has so gres>mwn, and talk Is ~! 1 e saleable C'ant stands-one about the gifted world, and collects for many rial ideas.\ 1 far been rejected by the SAGA rommodtty of the etty. student, and the other about min- worthy causes. In the nex:t decade scholarship I Food Service which presently ThP nweting then hroke into imal standards. It was stated that aid must be increased to make operates the West College and the indi,·idual ml'etings of both \Acrelemted study programs and 2 Campus Chest will make only \educational opportunities avail- Hale House dining rooms. It is young lll'mnc·ratg ancl Young Re- special curricula for the highly one collection, the date of which able to any young man capable at this point that the situation publiean~ to hPgin the formation talented are needed ... The stu- will be announced by the drive of providing the kind of student rests. of tlw re~IWl'tin' groups. dent of high potential has long committee. leadership and .performance de- Dean Pollack expressed great ----------- heen neglected. The gifted indi- His brief note to the Freshman manded by the College.\ Only in regret that the Rathskeller of ten vidual must be challenged to fore- during orientation van Gendt said. this way will Union be able to years ago \like Diamante's is Nelson 'fo Speak stall boredom ... \ Despite some \Get used to the idea of contrib- compete on an equal level with now,\ is an object of student opposition by those who feared uting to eharity annually. Since low-cost public universities. apathy •.. due to a shift in stu- \How tn ~tretch a Freshman\ Federal in\'estigation in curricu- giving to charity has become the dent interest.\ ig the title nf a talk which l'nion Jar matters, it was adopted that responsibility of successful Amer- \Whenever students desire to \At one time ..• the Skeller Collt>gP English Prof. H. Alan \It will ... be appropriate for icans, I seriously urge you to get organize a new activity, whether displayed a booming business, ~rlsnn IYill gin- :~t an ~:nglish 1 1 Fedl'ral authorities to concern into the habit of gh'ing now.\ to further their academic inter- packed with students, faculty, and 5:rct;nn m\rting- nf th<> ~\\' York th<>mselves with minimal stand- Psts, pursue a hobby, or perform residents of Schenectady ... State High School Tear·hPI'S A~sn- nrds in education throughout the a needed service to the College There's been quite a change.\ He ciation in St·otia Friday. C'ountry.\ community, the Student Council attributes the change to the fact nt·. :\JpJ~on will ha\P hi\ talk The discussion regarding the Money Savl\ng Of·fer and the College are willing to be that it is not an \attr[lctive ae- on a prog-ram <iP~ign~d to dP\\P!op Arts and Sciences brought out the of assistanc~. The entire College tivity to students.\ Officers on interpgt in rending nmon~ l'm_on eontJ\Oversial suggestion that the community recognizes the many the Board aren't paid, so they College frPshnwn and wtll pomt federal government should sup- fOr advantages that rome from learn- naturally lack as much vigor as out how it might hP adapted to port educational television sta- ing by doing-.\ they might have. high ~ehonl <\h•;:<>~- tions in an effort to raise the Approx!mall'ly 90 tl'arhcr:< from quality of commercial offerings. Students & Teachers Schenectady, Fulton, Montgom- Also in the field of mass commun- ery, Saratoga, and Schoharie ic~tions, the gro~p hit at Ame:i- l'OUnties ar<' cX)lP<-tcd to attend. cas pr~ss for bemg generally lr- Co.-chairmen of tlw program m·e responstble. Miss Mildred Parkinson, chair- In the field of science, it was man of the Scotia-Glendlle Eng- stated that the \Federal aid lish Departnwnt, and Miss Jean should be given without undue George, co-ehairman of ~he Shen- restrictions in order to undST- endehowa CPntral S,·hool tn Elnora. write basic research.\ Dr. Nelson is a 1947 g.rudua~e The discussion on Health and of L'nion Colege. He recel\'ed h1s Welfare brought out one of the mastet·'s ~nd l'h_.D. from North- most controversial suggestions of wc>.setrn lmver~t~Y. and wa~ ap- the conference - socialized medi- pomtPd to the L nwn faculty m cine. Passing in one of the dis- 1!!54. cussion groups and reaching a --------- 10-10 impasse in another, social- \Whv ]',-y~hiatry Sh9uld ~ot ized medicine was not adopted by Supplant Religion\ will be the the entire assembly, but it was topic of a discm;,;ion led by Dr. clear that the delegates felt that Edward Carotht>rs in Old Chapel all Americans deserved medical Sundav l'Vt•ning. October 8, at care whether they could pay or 8 f>M.'The mPeting. sponsored by not. It was impossible to agree thl' Chri~tian :\ss<wiatinn, is open upon the best means of reaching to all stu'dents and faculty mem- this goaL hers. SpPC\ial invitations are be- An important suggestion that tng- •·xterubl to the :\ewman Club, was adopted regarded sex educa- tn Hill<•l, and to the students of tion and birth control. It was ~kidmor•• and Ru>t•ll Sage. Re- agreed that sex education should fn•shml•nts will he ~erwd after be disseminated through the the dh<ru,.::..;;on. schools, and that all laws forbid- Tlw \rig;inal Fro·udian !'dwol ing the sale of contraceptives wa~ conYinced that psrchiatry (Mass .and Conn. have such laws) ~houlol ~upplant rf'lig-inn, which should be repealed. the school c.,n,;idl'J'ed \wishful thinking,\ and ewn tnday gom\ In the area of Foreign policy it .,f tlw '\!''''''\\''< of thP P:~rly was agreed, despite opposition by ,:ch•JOI hnld thi, ,-i .. w. In any rasP one of the three discusion groups, I I · that Communist China should be it i~ appan·nt t 1 at P~Y<' llatry admitted to the U. N. and could l\i1allt•nge~ rc·lig-ion at more than A new, exclusive discount program for students and teahers has been developed by the Student Subsriptipn Serv- ice of Los Angeles. Students and teachers throughout the United States may now order books (best sellers, etc.), rec- ord albums (all labels), and magazines at a great savings. A 20'7c discount on books, 107r discount on texts, 25% dis- count on albums, and up to 507r discount on magazines is available. The Student Subscription Service of Los Angeles, Cali- fornia is the official represen- tative of the many companies and is anxious to hear from anyone interested in taking ad- vantage of this discount pro- gram. This is offered to any student or teacher in the Uni- ted States as a free service, there are Ro membership fees or service charges, and no ob-- ligation to buy at any time. Write to 1743\lz North Ken- more Avenue, L. A. 27, Calif. for additional information. one front. Tlw quc>,.;tion i:; thPre· no longer be diplomatically ignor- fore 1 -cle,·ant to the life of any- ed. Also. multilateral nuclear ~is­ ••nP who is c·onco'rnl•d about proh- armament. was felt to be a ~oithy lPm~ nf til<' lntman spir.il, whetlwr go~!, desp1t~ some suggestJOns of _at_l_,,._;~~~- '.IO~_·Vl_'r:_ ____ -----1 ~~~~n~tl~a;tl'~r;a~l~d~1;~;ar~m~a~m;e;n;t~. ~;;;;;~;;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ DIAMANTE'S Enjoy our fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room 160 LAFAVE TTE ST. OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOTT ST. \Where Chapel meets Lafayette• FRanklin 2-0501 OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M.- SUNDAYS 5 P.M.-3 A.M. 1~ ..... ~~3 ---~ 117 Mohawk Ave. SCOTIA, N. Y. THRU NEXT WEDNESDAY AN ENGLISH COMEDY NEXT TO NO TIME Starring-Betsy Drake and Kenneth More Show Time: 7:20, 9;20 EASTMAN COLOR SCOTIA SPeED WASH - at Rear of Scotia Theatre Building DELUXE COIN LAUNDRY Featuring Automatic 20 Minute Dry Clean - Up To 12 Lbs. For Just $2.00 - SAVE $12 or $18 on one $2.00 LOAD laundry Open 6:30 A.M. to 11 :30 P.M. Dry Cleaning 9:00 A.M. to 9:00 P.M. Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian • American Food 'Di$count for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking OJ 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. Union Co!l~ge >::>\1rirrtrnmg Tony Turner announced Foote Memorial Pool will be to faculty, students and guests on Sunday afternoons 3 :00 PM until 5:30 PM. are requested to use the entrance on the east end gym ami men the south n\''~·~·-\· on the east end of the gym. mers are urged to follow the ety rules posted on the waH the pool. For All Your Paint and Hardware Needs. See us CAPITOL PAINT & HARDWARE CO. 730 STATE ST. Phone FR 4-4123 Best Service in Town SCHUHL ESSO SERVICE 715 No'tt.. St. Come in and Fill Up with the BEST GAS IN TOWN Clothes in the Colle9e Manner 1 Ocro off To Students HATS CLOTHING FURNISHINGS Men's Shop 514 State St. ., Stort~~-hours: Mon. ttuu Sal. 9:30 lo 5 P.lo\. Thurs. 10 A.M. to 9 P.M. BEl REF Pal Pu A Facul ated .at the 1 evening. Thh in the ·discuss faculty .attitu ternities at l vorabie. . Befo-re mak which originato mittee, John Q tive from Chi negative feelin; ty members h ternitie~>. He sa mors of opini' {acuity retreat dissension does faculty and fr; Raucous P~ QueJ:).ell rea must be foun beliefs. The fac to loud, ·rauc strange occureJ Week. On the Psi;s delegate worthwhile .pro fraternities. M~ ulty etijoy din chats at the Christmas Par surprises• For1 dents hav~ an perience life :i intramlll'al spc vil'les wholesom exercise. Quen I.F.C. should c derstancJing an, faculty bears campus. The motion 1 ty-Frat.ernity : tee to study t 16-0 ap.p1·oval, was appropr chairman of tl The financi~ that the1;e is funds in the execute proper· the yea-r. Tea P John Quenell ported that th this year is $n Council will h $250 towards Freshmen Rect raised somehm Peter Rapapor Delta, comme:r to send three c the National In ril Conference tiona! $200 wi The I.F.C. is winter weeken way to acquirE President Ra Social Rules : mittee compos Phi Delta The1 Delta Upsilon Delta Chi. Ed appointed Pari Flag B~ Roger, Seme: !on was appoiiJ carrying of f home football vive .school spi The represer Sigma, Vern pointed to in increase public the Salvation organizations. A questionn: by each liouse delegates. Th How many m this past year a suo 1.3 intle first semester you initiate tl1 many with as marking perio tiation? An announ that. the edit< are offering size, quarter-IJ deadline is N < ads should be I.F.C. meetinl Class also ann their prom co be $20 a page Reverend 'I Will a;ddrPSS Monday. Octol in the Hale 1 t()pic will be \ Liturgy.\ Phelan has E Holy Cross C University an< didate for th from Ox:ford 1

& co. Up ff GS 5 P.M. BERLlN REPO'RT Page 2 Vol. 9l, No. 3 Founded at Union College in 187.7 - . - . SCHENECTADY, N. Y., OCTOBER 13, 1961 iEXPRESS,O CAFE Page 3 PRICE 15 CENTS IFC Promotes ~~ ......... · dmore Sentimental iUnion Greets AluiUni Public Relations·M~yReceive ~Y Alan Kaufman Radio Union A Faculty-Fraternity Relations Committee was ated .at the Interfraternity Council meeting last c1·e- By Fred Rosenberg WRUC has anno1:1nced to bring its station to J,Slddmore College and Radio evening. This. new group was formed, as was \''\\''u .. r: .. c.• in the ·discussion, because the~-~------­ With Homecoming this weekend, 500 to 600 Alumni arl' expected to visit the campus. The J<'ull Homecom- ing Wcf'kend officially began at 3:30 PM, today with a faculty .attitude towat·ds fra- ternities at Union is not fa- vorable. · . Befol'C making the motion which originated the new com- mittee, John Quenell, representa- tive from Chi Psi, eKplained the negative feelings that the facul- ty members have towards fra- ternitiell. He said, \Disturbing ru- mors of opinion voiced at the faculty retreat . . .\ show that dissension does exist between the faculty and fraternities. Raucous Parties Witnessed I Quel).ell realized that there must be foundations fOl' these beliefs. The faculty are witnesses to loud, raucous parties and strange occurences during Greek Week. On the qther hand, Chi Psi;s delegate 'pointed out the worthwhile .projects conducted at fraternities. Members of the fac- ulty etijoy dinners and informal chats at the various houses, Ohl'istmas p~rties give orphans surprises• Foreign H.E.L.P. stu- dents have an opportunity to ex- pel·ience life at Union, and the intramUl·al sports program pro- viqes wholesome fun and physical exercise. Quenell felt that the I.F.C. should co1Tect this misu.n- derstancJing and realized that the faculty bears great influence on campus. The motion to appoint a Facul- ty-Fraternity Relations Commit- tee to study this matter won a 16-0 ap.pl'Oval, and John Quenell was appropriately appointed chairman of the new group. The financial report revealed that the1;e is a definite lack of funds in the I.F.C. ' treasury to execute properly the activities of the yea·r. Tea Pot Empty John Quenell, the Treasurer, re- ported that the balance to start this year is $129.54; and since th~ Council will have to pay about $250 towards the cost of The Freshmen Record, money must be raised somehow. I.;F.C. president, Peter Rapaport from • Phi Sigma Delta, commented that in order to send three or four members to the National Interfraternity Coun- dl Conference at least an addi- tional $200 will also be needed. The I.F.C. is plannnig a bid for winter weekend as onr possible way to acquire funds. President ' annomt:en Social Rules mittee composd of Bob Phi Delta Theta; Roger Delta Upsilon; and Tom H Delta Chi. Edward Shapiro was appointed Parliamental'ian. Flag Bearer 'Nl!-l!led Roger. Semerad of Delta Upsi• Ion was appointed to organi:>::e the carrying of fraternity flags at home football g-ames to help re- vive .school spirit. The representative from Sigma, Vern Penner, was ap- pointed to investigate ways increase public relations by the Salvation Army or organizations. A questionnaiFe to be filled out by each liouse was given to the delega;tes. The questions were: How many men did you pledge thi~ past year? How many with a sub 1.3 index at the end of first · semester? How many you initiate this past year? How many with a sub 2.0 index at last marking period before their ini- tiation? An announcement was that. the editors of the are offering fraternities a one size, quarter-page ad for $10, the deadline is November 10 and the ads should be brought tn the next I.F.C. meeting. The Sophomore Class also announced that ads fot· their prom concert program will be $20 a page. Reverend Thomas. W. Phelan will ~ddrPSS the Newman Club Monday. October 18, at 7:30 P·M in the Hale HousP Lounge, His tl)pic will ·be \The Meaning of the Liturgy.\ Phelan has earned dejrrees from Holy Cross College and Catholic UniVe1·sity and is presently a can· didate for the doctorate degree from Ox:ford University. ~li.~UJlJ:lure to the Union cam- The two stations would· a live network, sharing air time and program offer- ings. . Union Would probably do most . of the broadca,;ting since Radio . Skidmo1·e ,presently broadcasts ;o,· one-half hour per da;y the faeilities of WSPN, . a commercial station. Skidmore To Pay · meeting of tne Exeeutive Committee of -thE' Alumni ' Cmmcil in President David- . son's office. This mmmittee Realization of the project de- upon forthcoming commit-· rn~nt by Skidmore to .pay the ini- : tial cost of new equipment for the ventur~::, estimated at $800 to $1000. This figure includes the is expected tu decide on the agemla for the Council's meeting on Saturday at 9 AM in the Old Chapel. ,llilllilllll The Alumni Council is com- • pu,;ed uf repre,;enlativec of each A sentimental alumnus comes horne to witness the Ga1·net eleven clas~, repre~entati\'l'' uf lucal triumph aga·in. alumni clubs, twenty members f!·om the entire'alumni group, and s1x veteran members elected f1·om those who have served for 15 years on the Couneil as claB.3 HELMER I. WEBB Legacies Unearthed of installing necessary at Skidmore, three remote transmitters, and one power am- plifier which would build up for Skidmore the weak signal re- ceived from Union. The use of a Bell Telephone radio line, the type presently em- Larrabee Writes on Yorktown ployed to broadcast Union away football games, would have to be .leased at a charge of about $100 per month. The line would be fi- \A Near Thing at Y01·ktown\ is nanced from increased adver,tis- the title of an article in the Oc- ilig revenue made possible by the tober issue of \American Heri- larger audience totaling 3000. tage\ hy Dr. Harold A. Larrebee, Th t t . ld b t' who retired as Professor .of Phil- Mr ·. Helmer· Webb announce·'· . e s a lOP. cou e opera mg . . • u as a network in less than a month osophy at Union College m June, today, that although most Union from the time Skidmo1'e agrees 1960. College students undoubtedly b~- to the project. Skidmore is ex- The story tells of the \one en- lieve that the only n~wsworth~ pected to give the go ahead this gagement\ in the American Revo- items at the new Schaffer U- month. lutiun, a battle at which no Amer- brary are books, ·the iibrary nol\'l icans were present. Called the counts among its legacies a Jo!n~ Network Battle of the Chesapeake, it was bundle of Confederate rnonG)\' In another development, WRl:C a naval l:!ncounter off the Capes bonds, and promissory notes, ·t~ became a member of the Colle- of Vhginia between the French tallmg $19,000, a skull pro~- Radio Network. composed fleet of 134 ships under Admiral aLly dating back to the 1690 of Williams, RPI, and Sienna Col- Count DeGrasse and the British lndian massacre, and some patri- lege, Starting ne.xt week, each of 19 warship::; commanded by otic envelops of the Civil War. college will tape a half hour pro- Rear Admiral Thomas Graves. These curiosities were redis- gram to be broadcasted by the As Professor Larrabee ex- covered in a safe during the . other three members. plains: \The sea-fight was actual- of operations from the old Union's first offering will be ly decisive because it was inde- fi.Iemorial Library to the \Jazz Unlimited,\ followed by cisive. \Surrounded by Lafayette, Schaffer Library. Mr. Helrne.a· \Loom of Language.\ The pro- Rochambeau, and Washington at Webb, the college librarian, stated grams from the other colleges Yorktown, the only hope of Lord that the presence of these artide.s will be presented by WRUC every Cornwalis and 7000 British troops were kno\vn fur a long time b\lt .Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday was to escape Ly sea. Thus, De- that they were first assorted and nights at 10 PM. grasse; by crushing that hope counted in the process of moving:. RFI, Williams, and Siena have achieved a great victory for These memorabila were televised AM stations similar to Union's. American independence. over WRGB-TV, October 6, and Williams and RPI also broadcast The article is illustrated by a were also broadcast over severa:l FM which enables th~m to reach number of maps and the picture mdio stations as an Associate<l an audience beyond their college discovered in the museum in Ver- Press wire. cornmunity. sailles. It is the second o_ne which Confederate Bank Unearthed RPI is currently worki'ng on Dr. LalTai?bee .has contnbuted to The bulk of the Confedei·a\~ a low cost receiver-tl•ansmitter 1 the magaz.me. As a graduate stu- •~ that would enable the four col-: dent in Paris !n the 1920's. on .a bills were given to the college .leges to set up a live network like f!a1·va1·d ~ravelmg scholarship, h1s 1912 by the Assistant . the one projected with Skidmore.lmterest m the Yorktown cam- of State, R. 0. Bailey. The 'The cost would be about $400 per 1 paign encouraged him to become lege then served as a goverTE- 1 t · A · h' t rnent depository. The rate of ia- college, an exper m mer1c:;tn IS ory. terest on the bonds six to seven per C(lnt, IIU.J caun;g Fergu-son Retur.-ns Home that Southern credit was by means good. Smaller sums nfoney were also donated by dividual citizens. To T· each As 1 • an H 1 • story The· skull was uncovered ~ the old city wall and was pre· p· rofessor Henry Ferdl1!:!0n of tbe Department of His~ sen ted to Union College by .a b ~ Schenectady alumnus. A note tory spent last year studying the cultures of the Oriental tached to the skull stated Civiiizations. The purpose of his study was to prepare him the victim was believed to for teaching courses concern- • -- l;Jeen killed .by an tndian · ' hawk in the 1690 ma:ssa•ere. ing Asian nistory at Umon. I Although the Civil This project was under the otci envelops do not o..:ull~\J·'\'-·\'I aegis of President Davidson. collectors items, since they ar-e' As part of his training, Fer-J not listed in any catalogue, they guson took various courses at Co- are nevertheless very interesting. Jumbia University. He was en-~ One half of the front of the en\ rolled in two courses on the uu- velop :jlas some slogan or illustra- dergraduate level, Oriental Civili- tion, usually villifying Jefferse>n zatiort which included a history Pavis, or traitors, or exhorti11:g of India, China, and Japan, and the people to a great effort in Oriental Humanities which cov- the W?r effort. cred the period frorn 4000 BC to The Politic!\! Forum of Uriie>n College will hold its next meeting on T11-esday evening, October 1'7, at 8:00 PM, ih Bailey Hall 304. One Republican and one Demo- crat running for the SchenectaCly City Council will speak on their candidacy. the present. As an attending in- structol', he was allowed to take courses on the graduate level in Chinese language and in Modern China and Japan. He would like to see a course given in at least one Oriental language here I1J; Union. Williams To Discuss ''Britain'61'' representatives. There are ap- proximately eighty in the Coun- cil. It works in the following areas: alumni clubs, alumni fund, campus, finanee, fraternities, alumni day, homet•oming, vlace- ment, prespective stud\nt publi- cations, and record,; and history. Four speakers are srhetluled for A. M. Williams, C.M.G., Brit- th 9 30 AM · D 'd ish consul general, will speak at · e : meetmg: av1 the second convocation of the Un- Bergrnark, Dircetor uf Dewlop- . , 11 ment, }Vho handles large dona- Ion Co ege academic year at 11 tions fmm foundations to the col- AM, on Tuesday, October 17, in 1 lL Memorial Chapel. Williams will ege; A ert Smith, Dire<·tur of discuss \Britain 196 1.\ the Annual Fund, who handles alumni donations; John Haines, Serv~ng in Her Majesty's con- Coordinato1· of tht: Lung Range sular Service for the last nine Planning and De\'elopment Pro- years, Williams rose to his pres- gram; and I' resident Da\ idson, E)nt position in October, 1960, ·who will give hi,; annual addre&s succeeding Sir Hugh Stephenson. en the general state of l:nion Before assuming the responsibil- Colleg·e. ity of his New York post, Wil- liams rendered service in an ex- traordinary number of diverse !&- cations. He has represented Her Majesty successively in San Fran- cisco, Panama, Paris, Hamburg, Rotterdam, Reykjavik, Leopold- ville, Vienna, Bagdad, New York (as deputy consul gener~l), and Tunis. He was appointed an in- spector of foreign service estab- ·Hshments in 1956, serving in the foreig-n office back in GrPat Britain. In June, 1958, Williams was honored by being made a Copan· ion of the Order of St. Michael and St. George, which explains the C.M.G. in his title. He pre- pared for the foreign service in Berkhamsted School and Pem- brooke College, Cambridge. Fire Drill Successful Game Is ('lirnax Socially, the weekend will in· elude .:;e\clal di1mc1::. and fratet·- nity parties and will be climaxed by the l!nion-Rochester football game. At 6 P:.\L un Frir.lay, a din- ner will be held fur the Execu- tive Committee in Hale House. ..\ t 8 I'M, u reC'eption will take place at the Ketz residence hon- oring Professor Wittner of the I'hy::;ical Education Depal'tment, Professor Lig~m of the Psychol- ogy Department and Helmer L. W~bb, Librarian of the College, all of whom are retiring. The latter two will not be present. Sixteen alumni, who were active in athletics ·under Wittner, will present him with a wall clock and a photograph album at the re- ception. The Rath~kellar will open at 11 :30 on Saturday fOJ' soft drinks and beer, which will be followed by a buffet luncheon at Hale House. Following the football game, most of the fra- ternities will have homecoming parties. Alumni are also im·ited to an open house party in Ray- On October 4, at 9 PM, a fire mond and Potter Houses, newly drill was held at West College. completed homes of Theta Delta According to the dormitory coun- Chi, Kappa Sigma, Delta Chi, sellors, the Freshmen responded and Sigma Chi. Two non-fra- well. All of the dormitory dwell· ternity actjvtieR are plannPd: a ers participated in the pre-ar- . party in the Rathskellar span- ranged drill. Offi(!ers from the sored by Richmond Hall and a Fire Depaitment and Dean Poll- dinner and dance fo1· the freRh- ock observed the drill. men class with Russell Sage Col- The purpose of the drill was to lege. alert the Freshmen to the artion to be taken in case of an actual fire. Last year there was a small fire at West College ·which found many of the Freshmen unpre- pared. Most of the boys regarded the drill as a break in their stucliPs, but at the same time realized its importance. It waR thought that the drill would have been of greater value if it was not an- nounced. The fire drill lasted five minutes and consisted of the evacuation of the building. · Hamlet Offered liiAims'' Topic For Tippecanoe The Tippecanoe Conference, now known as the ~tuclent-Fac­ ulty Conference, will be held Sun- day, October 2!.1, at the Cantibury House on Route n, two mile be- yond the main entrance to the Scotm Depot. ThE> students and faculty 'of Un- ion College will be equally rep- resented. The purpose of the con- ference is the exchange and dis- cussion of ideas and opinions con- Shakespeare's Hamlet, will be cerning the long rangt> planning performed by the PhoPnix The- prog1·ams for the college. atre's traveling company, on Oc· The principle topirs of student tuber 25, at 8 PM on the stage interest will include academic of the Linton High Srhool audi· matters, student life, student aid, torium. Bernard Shaw'!'! Andro- admissions, fraternities, and fac- cles and the Lion will be given the ulty resources. Plans have been made to have the two state chairmen of the Young Democats and Young ·Re· publicans speak at the next mee-t- ing of the political forums, whi~h will be on October 31. Decker Adams and . Lloyd Uurick, co- chairmen of the urged all students politics to participate in elections. This past summer, Ferguson went to India on a Fullbright scholarship to study at Osmania University. There, he ahd twenty other American undergraduate instructors received an education in Indian Civilization. Ferguson remarked that he ''has confidence in the Indian people to make great advances in the future with- out having to re'sort to dictatol'- ship.\ He believes that India's. same day at 2 !30 PM. The Student-Facujty ConfeJ'- Tickets may be bought at the cnce is a reflection of Union Col- Three Year Plan will be very office of Mrs Johnson, the secre- l~ge~s philosophy that students beneficia\ tq the country, and tary in the language building. shotllrl be involved as mul'h as that Ipdi~ in time will ~~ ab)e The price. for the. afternoon per-~ possibl.e in thinldng about L'nion's to mamtam her own poSihon m I formance IS 75c. 'rickets for Ham· 1mmerl1ate artrl long range pmb- the world. , . let are $2.40 o1· $1.80. !ems. ' HENRY FERGUSON I i l I, 1

2 Puhlleht>d F1 '•I ~Y~ ~.tur.ing -tne ac:hool year ·by the ~:u,Jt-nl Body of l'u1un College, ~cht•nN·ta.Jy. N. 'Y. Na- tJonal AdvPrnstRg Represental·lve· National AUv~Hlslng ::Servtce .. Inc., C\oll~tN l'ubll~l.era Rt'Prt'Bio'Jltatlvt;~. 4:!0 !,Jadlsun A~t'., ~- Y. C. EdHorlal Ofrlce, Washburn Hall, l'nlou College, Publication Office, :Schenectady Printing Company, '502 Broadway. Entered in the Sche· nE>C\tady Post Office as Second Class Mall Matter. subsorlptlon 16c a copy; $3 a year delivered anywhere 1n the L\nitt!d States. J~tl'\,\\I.Jl 1: [•J;! ~I' r:. PI·~TEH E ...::r'Jt\\' \I:TZ ··: · PtJI'tiL.\:0::0:: \1 .\I,J.E'\: ·r;;; .\Ll'HJ-:P :--.••.\1.\'ILH v.l 1'11 ~ <1,1-,(; 1·~'\ '\ ~· :•\:• E.Jllor·ln·Chter JlU~IOt..'Ha !\tanager !\!anaglng F.d!tor . . ... News Editor :Sl'urto\:J Etlltur .1\ \IJ;:--. :-:·:·t;ti'-\J;i:l>t: J l ~lOR OUAitU I•····• t:. :·•. ~•n•nn ~ .• }.{) ·,;~ \llt•n :-:.hwart'l ·•:i .Andy J.'ug~·l:--on '1:4 liu\\,l!tl H.tii•.Jft•i'lll ••I Alan h:.uufman 'G4 Hill H•·I~JPr 'H4 ,\( 1 Hlb l\t'ature Editor Assistant !':9ws Editor · Make·UP Editor · Assistant Sports Editor , ....... Copy Editor ....... Special Events Editor . .... .. Exchange Editor In a recent parade on the Arg-entinische Allee in the American Sector to honor the presence of GE-neral Clay and celebrate the signing of the Constitution, the American defense force in Berlin was rolled out for eyes across the bovder. · :\la.rrm :'\:f>wnwn 'li 4 ~tPve H.nymunU • 63 Steve I•\'lll'tor '63 l't>tt·r Atnhro~P 't:;: . AssJstnnt Feature Editor Advertising Co~Ordinator Rubscription :\tanager Lunnlt> :-\ ns~l\'••ra \'al \Vt·kh Local Advertising Managar .. 1· .National Advertising Manager REPORTER S'l'AFF . Circulation Manager I <i1llwrt Bt•ll. tit•! •tld Hr~t'n\vald. HanJld Hurwitz, Lloyd ~Urick, Al Pize-r, Frfd Hn~~->nlu-•n..:, HJI'k ~'\ha.rf. H.ohPrt :4het'\\~in. Howa1·d Siegei, Robert Skloot, Peter !-lu:-.!'!llan. Br~t•l !4\\t\'t'llt-'}·. ~John Thornl\' ~kid Towl, Paul Tu1~ner, Lawton Mor- Iih.;on.. T·~JIH\\:orth Tr:H ~. Kal ~~·r.ll£>i•1Pr, }t~rh· Toder. Must Push Advantage By Lawton Morrison rASDIDAT·E REPORTER S'l'AFF An·lr••\\' .\~l<t~r .\rnot.I I3t·rkowilz. ~dwarJ BrynE.•S. Wa~·ne Butler Martin Cohen, :\!~t.t·tln Jay. !\lt>l 1-\:ing. RobPrt HrmnPr. Douglas l.aBl~r. Ed\V'ard V. Moore. alon :\'t•Uhs Hlt hard Pnradi~t> .. lamPS \.Vilson, Larry Horowitz. Brad BoC\kraber. Dt'RISERR RTAFF Uuln•rt l~ul~un. l'uul ~-i\•ldrna.n. I·:d R!'aus. lvPns AI ~an~~utllnnu Juhn ~~mon1, Barty. Wf:'lnstein La Flor@.. Larry Ptalis. The following article is a first- Our right to be in Berlin was hand report of the current Berlin gained when we traded a great situation as reported to the Con- area captured by America,n troops cordiensis by Lawton Morrison. and now in the area of the so Morrison is currently spending his caiied \German Democratic Re- junior year in Zurich, Switzerland. public.\ Our rights, as well as A House Divided A serious dE\ficienry in Union's social organization reached a climax. last month at the faculty retreat. Charge!:' of anti-intellectualism, immaturity, and useless- ness were leveled against the fraternities by members of the faculty. Some demanded that the system be com- pletely abolished while others requested extensive modi- fication. Few would defend it in its present form. Many of the points raised in this debate, we believe, are valid criticisms of the present system. Unless cor- rected, this antagonism could create an everwidening brearh between the tv:o most important parts of the Col- lege, the faculty and the student body. General Clay returned to Ber- iin a conquering hero, though he and the country he represents had conquered nothing. To the Ber- liners, however, he had tempor- arily conquered fear and reassur- ed the friendship shared in Wash- ington. To the Berliners, he is a friend. But what is General Clay to Washington? If he had conquered fear with his arrival, he created it threefold during his first week in residence here. At a recent cocktail party. he casually men- tioned into his cocktail glass, though within earshot of guest newsmen, that it might be neces- sary to accustom oneself to two Germanies . General Clay's remark came at a time preceded by speculation in A.merican newspapers that the United States might be consider- One comes to a college or university primarily for an ing large concessions for peace education. Ideally, the intellectual climate of the campus in Berlin. These events opened the Pandora's Box of fears and doubts precedes the soda! calender in educational importance; shared by the people of West realistically, at Union the order is reversed. Fraternities Berlin. do much, we feel, to discourage intellectualism. In several The Berliner does not like to criticize. He is dependent on the houses on campus those who study are ostracized as queer, occupation forces, particularly the those accepting th~ \gentleman C\ are \in.\ Recently, American troop~. He loves these men who are there to protect him while investigating study facilities on campus, many con- -a fact that the communist pup- fessed they were forced to seek refuge in the Library or pet Walter Ulbricht cannot under- stand. But the Berliner is not General Engineering Building because their fraternity was dumb; he knows that a decision too noisy for anyone not suffering from an acute hearing for war involving 2 million }leo- disability to studv effieiently. A campus wide, intellectual pie, who would be destroyed any- ,) way, is not easily reached. renaissance is a goal to be sought. \We wonder,\ said one doctor, \If the Americans will leave us Immaturity, the second point raised, may best be seen -not today, nor tomorrow, but · 1 f d 1 · eventually\ The newspapet· re- m t 1e raternity party. A stu ent of col ege age lS pre- port of General Clay's remark was sumed to have reached a level of maturity wherein he is headlined: \Is Berlin Sold Out?\ repulsed by loud. destructive, drinking parties. Enjoyment Balloon Punctured such as this, more than prevalent on Union's campus, is General Clay has since denied · 1 1 k' uld k h th his remark and reaffirmed our entire y ac mg in taste. Few wo ta e isssue on w e er stand in Berlin, as has President or not a student drinks, that is his concern, but many will Kennedy in his now famous UN condemn the manner in which he does. A cocktail party address If Clay was a test balloon to take a reading on how far the carried on in a quiet, discrete atmosphere is a far cry US can hack out, he has had his from but a necessary substitute fa. r present conditions. answer. It cannot. What, now, is left? Do we stand pat or go for- ward and, if forward, where? ThP faculty is well united in opposition to Greek Week; The decision to stay in Berlin to them it is the epitomy of uselessness. Here, one sees was made in 1948 by President the college community reduced to a primitive society in Trwnan on the recommendati~n . . . . of General Clay The famous A1r which pleasure ts derived through a peculiar form of Lift was devised then to keep sadism called hazin,..,.. Although several houses use this Berlin alive until. the Russians re- • 0 . • • canted on the1r strangulatiOn time as a Help Week, mothers meanmgless, all mght mara- measures. Speculation today holds thons prevent the pledges from forming a firm academic that 1948 was the time when . . . . . American tanks should have rolled base at the begmnmg of the year, a handicap which may on the Autobahns to guarantee plague them through a semester of \catching-up.\ Hazing us access. Although the right · · . . l was ours, tanks were not used- then 1s a sterrle part of the fratermty system which shou d probably because of the anemic be abolished. state of American armament at the time. \V l' must cumvliment the Interfraternity Council in recognizing this criticism and attempting to recement fac- ulty-fraternity relatiolli3 thmugh informal dinners at the various houses; however, educating the opposition does not eliminate the flaws. The basic weaknesses themselves must be recognized and modified. Until the fraternities acrept these criticisms and subsequently modify them- selves, faculty dinners will accomplish little. Perhaps the fault lies not in the fraternities, but in the College itself. The importance of the fraternity system has b:lllooned out of proportion here because the College provides little or nothing in the way of a substitute social life for Independents. The Trustees then could do much to correct the evils now inherent in the fraternity system by dcemphasizing its importance. Once a Student Union Building has been provided, fraternities will be forced to change or have to satisfy themselves with a much lower percentage of interested freshmen. In 1948, we could have slipped out of the back door in Berlih. The reasons we didn't are as good today as they were then, but be- cause we did not commit ourselves more actively after 1948. we may have to .settle for a Status Quo settlemenfl. A Status Quo that is even less than it was in 1948. American passiveness in Berlin during the Eisenhower Adminis- tration allowed the Reds creeping absorption of everything that had a bargain tag. In one way former President Eisenhower was right ,when he said a few /weeks ago that the US had nothing t0 bar- gain with in Berlin negotiations. The Russians have everything but the gl·ound we stand on: grounds legal and grounds on which our soldiers stand. It is on these grounds that we can nego- tiate. Our right, as Well as Russia's to Germany is grounded on the un- c-onditional sUJTPnder of Germany. Russia's, and our mutual limita- tions for the exercise of the Oc- cupation are bound up in the Lon- don Agreement of 1944, the Pots- dam Protocol of 1945, and various other joint agreements since. While Russia can give up her right to occupy Germany by re- linquishing it to a puppet with a peace treaty, the Reds cannot in any way legally effect Western Occupation or Administrative rights by unilateral action. No Further Infringement It is my opinion, after a month of living in West Berlin, and stu- dying in both cities on The Spree, that Khrushchev has no intention of infringing on the remaining Western rights in Berlin, at least not for the present in light of Western firmness. The Soviet Boss will have ac- complished an objective if West- ern Powers sit in conference for only a guarantee of rights they already have and can defend. A Status Quo settlement would rec- ognize de facto the so-called \Ger- man Democratic Republic\ and would amount to the 'payoff in the old protection racket. The West has just aoout killed, through lack of use, the many rights to which they are entitled in Germany. A Status Quo would give the USSR grounds to say with some weight that London, Potsdam, and all that followed was cancelled de facto. We must not stop today, but push the advantage we have ob- tained by our surprise stand over Berlin. There is reason to believe we could be successful, if willing to compromise our tight NATO control over West Germany and perhaps give the Soviets room to draw up in a rocket shell behind Oder-Neisse Line. Khrushchev Washes Hand11 The1·e is a very transitory na- tture to the late events in East ·Germany It appears that every- thing done was done at .first test- ingly throug-h the Stalinist pup- pet Walter Ulbricht under the coYer of Society threats Success- ful at drawing Western attention from the German question to a frantic flurry .to hold West Berlin, Khrushchev has now washed his hands of events in East Germany by laying the task on his hatchet man, Ulbricht. Mr: K, I believe, is expei'iment- ing in East Germany. Having his yearly Party pains, he is using the fanatic bearded Saxon to demon- strate a little old fashioned Stalin terror. while at the same time tying up the East German bundle in Red t•ibbon. But Nikita is leav- ing the door open for himself. The fact that Ulbricht is the remaining Stalinist in power makes him target for a possible Kremlin sa<'rifice. Moscow loses no face, shifting the blame easily to Ulbricht, who is possibly the world's most hated man. If Ulbricht succeeds in making East Germany a working Russian satelite, the experiment has paid off and he will be retired to a lazy lifes~autumn. If Ulbricht stirs up the latent dynamite in his country, Mr. K. could afford to rid himself of a headache and gain p1·estige by negotiating it. Must Be Big Dealer A little diplomatic pressure, a step up in Rias. broadca;sting, and other measures could bring East Germany on the bargaining block. But the West is not without fault in the German split and must be willing to deal with Moscow, Aft- er negotiation, a neutral \Aus- trian\ Germany would be the an- swer. Such a state would always (Continued on Page 6) Friday, October l3, 19(11 BB • tn ''The Truth'' By Peter Lefcourt I have j1,1::1t seen my fir:;t good Brigitte Bardot film. I don't wish to cast any aspersions on Mlle. Bat•dot's character, but it is very pleasant to see her ut't for a. c.-hange and not just take off h~1 stockings for an hour and u h:lif. The Trl!th, a film dii·eded by the \nouveUe\ vague~' French di· l\ector Heneri Clouzot, is a good: deal more than the typica-l Ba!'· dot film. It gets into you and: starts ~·ou thinking uuout ::;ullle \\ery real pt•oblems. It is mon than a story of a doomed romance in <'ontPmporary Paris, it is mote than a trial of a weak-willed. .down-troden girl for thl• murdet· of her lover, it is more than the problem of justice and crinies of .passion. In many ways it is a dramatization, a critique, of .the conflict of the generations-the pmblem of lack of rapport he- t:ween the youth of the world and their parents. Battles Society Discussing the film on this level, Dominique's (Bardot) bat- tle with the moral · standards of her world becomes. the central fact of her trial. Dominique is ostensibly on trial for the al- leged murder of Gilbert, her lov- er, but this is not at all the case. Sl1e, like Camus' Mersault in 1:.'-E;tranger, ·becomes the object of the assault of a secure, self- righteous society. The rationale of the defense in Mers:i.ult's case is not connected with the crime. hut with Mersault's detachment and lack of regard for the con- ventions of· his world. The same )l())ds true in Dominique\; case: the defense continually stresses her lack of \respectability her irresponsible way of life, her friends, and her love affairs. Her crime is not her murder of Gil· bert, but her belief in sexual free- dom and her defiance .of the socia·l rode.> of the bourgeois world. Dominique is a type that one can find in droves in the bohemi- an quarters of the wol'ld's capitals --he it Montmartre, Soho or Greenwich village. Living from day to day on oread and (il lucky) wine, sleeping whereve1· welcome and with whomever' the occasion or inclination chooses, existing in utter detachment from the demands of the serious world, these young- people ·have pre- The chief operator of the Southwestern Bell Telephone C{)mpany-Mrs. Alice Underwood -says the company has dE><'ided to stop giving customers the cor- rect time. Said M1·s. Underwood in Ben- ton, Arkansas: \We just don't have the time.\ ~ented a cipher to their society. Tht>y represent a threat to t:h~ established ot·der because· they m·e able to live and amuse them• selves without working and con- forming to the rules of life. It is juE<t this threat that convicts DominiquP, not of the murder- ' the murder bE-comes irreleval).t~ but of being a social criminal, a moral outlaw. 'Faulty T1·adition In searching for \the truth\ ,~he jury is only interested in the number of men that have pro- ceedt>tl to Dominique's bed •. And Dominique yells at them passion- utely (this one the subtitles failed to tran::;late: God Bless the ~afety of our childrep.), \You hlacked robed slobs of respect- ~bility, how do you know what the truth is if you've never slept with anybody but your ai\emic, old wives?\ Dominique's ques- tion is a very r()al one: How can the truth, the real nature of love and J,ife, be dealt with in the rerefied objectivity of the colll't- room. When thought of in these terms, the very title 'becomes an irony. The realism ,of the pro!!l.uction is extraordinary, almost cruel. The poorly-lig-hted little bistros of Paris' student quarter, the long-haired, beared philosopes of the \Rive Gauche.\ the whole fab- l'ic of Dominique's world is shown truly and brilliantly. There is plenty to shock those unfamiliar with the way that a good deal of the world's youth live in these da:vs. Orgies, motorcycle races, ill- fed young people in odd-clothing, sex, marijuana, madness, madness, madness, ad nauseum. You equid just see the thought in the minds of the> jury (as, I must admit, in the minds of man§ of the middle- aged audience around me): Would you have your son or daughter .... Gap Widens The Truth is a film that very l'ightfully shakes one up a bit. The widening gap of ideological communication between· our gene- ntion and that of our parents is a serious thing. Who is right? Where is the truth? The question gapes at one as he watches the process of Dominique's trial-a trial which takes on very wide proportions. Dominique committed a murdel'-yes; but is she to be judged by those who cannot and will not know the realities of her world? Dominique is to be pun- ished for committing a murder, but is she also to be punished for the men she has slept with two :year:; before the incident? The jury is also on trial for their lack of sensitivity and perception. 1'heir guilt is in some ways more rn a n i f e s t than Dominique's. \There are more things in this wol'ld, etc., Horatio.\ 117 Mohawk Ave. SCOTIA, N. Y. THRU NEXT WEDNESDAY A FRENCH DRAMA THE TRUTH Starring-III!JGI1TE BARDOT Show Time: 7:00 - 9:00 DEWITT'S Cafeteria a11d Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118. 120 JAY STREET Sherman's Liquor Store DISCOUNTS ON CASE LOTS Free Delivery ·FR2-3465 Hours: 9 A.M. to 11 :00 P.M. ~720 Albany St. I It is general ideas, new prod1 ents are first ac cities and then to the hinterlan neither large en ically active enc fi.eld a::; a big c suit, it does no1 new approachef cepts those VI from the neare: tlvity, namely I While the cof invented in NE was modified b~ to meet thei houses have e years in the hi the past eig-ht c popularity has ably. Original!~ was a place wl to 'get a cup of something to d1-inking. Its o· teristic was its its customers. customer mad even if it was· roffee, (which i he was entitlE table for as lon1 could be sure be no pressure ment, either dir him to vacate room for anotl roffee house w~ one went to SJl to read the paJ play chess. C1·eatures A Eventually, coffee houses bE calized in the area, the rest ers became c· strange creatur these odd estal gan the toJ;u·is the tow-ists car proprietors of t soon discovered not at all dis1 turned their mi of increasing t soon discovered tow-ist wasn't ' ing the paper, thinking. He amused, and as ment wore ·ofi elsewhere. To happy, the cof tor paraded in odd looking ch! tually he pet·su: and recite t1 ( often ~he cr Once the coffee had been demo: pared entertaiTI of acts, such : and musical 1 lowed. The col the poor man' 1·etained some c acter by caterb those who con: to be intellect coffee house ' dominant and s this establishr York City ha: suburbs. It is somewl: it has taken tl long to reac'4 Schenectady i~ even if it is Nevertheless, c the inevitable Schnectady's f saw the light. Attended The Cafe Sal ways a typical within the pref term, it will ' to be a rather er and general named Bob l\ New Yorker v be called a Sc a college grad Russell Sage wh&e he was

3, 19(11 ,, society. to the they them• nd con- life. It urder- eval)t~ a ubtitles the \You what slept ques- ow can of love in the com•t- these an «luction cruel. bistros the of fab- shown is amiliar deal of these ill- othing, ad ness, could in Would .... very a bit. gene- is right'? the rial-a wide to be ot and of her e pun- for two '? The lack eption. more this _jj P.M. Art Exhibit Opens tacular innovators of Abstract By Paul Turner If the \Little International\ 8:xpressionism. , •exhibit, now in Old Chapel, was . ·several of the European paint- .. ·put together with the intention mgs are more exciting. \The ]:{ed 3 USN SA: Ideals Cemented . ef demonstrating the so-called Nude,\ by Briton Kit Barker, · By David Kunz · \Internationa·l School\ of paint- ohows fnon~toft'. this,Iste!f-consdo. 1 us- With the clo,;e of thc great con- ',com mittel's, and jl!PIJar•· sPssions · 't · f 1 Th k ness o mH a 1011 · 1~ a· vo UJ · • · J • .. .. mg, I IS unsuccess u ·. e wor s t R b · ~ 8 J- fhct that was World War II, the 1 The pnmary purnose was to aid Sh · 0 · f t t h uuu~ as a u ens a11d the ••low- fi · 1 ~\ · · · wn, m ac , argue agam:; t e n .I 1 . t' 1 .r d .. I o. k 1rst concern u1 the men who had 1 t 1e cum pus coL•l'llLn;ttor 111. nwkmg existence of such a \school\ if ' g mouu a Jon:; o re s anu pm s h · · · · · · d · · ' we think of the tern!· in the ac- are frankly laid down for 'en' sphent th· etr henergtcs Ill brmgmg I g<.o u,.;e of the jl<~tt·ntwls of the sua! effect. · - w .:xt t ey t oug!1t was an end ~f i llSNSA. In a workshop,_ a dPle- . :cepted sense, as a group of art- It is comf rti th t . str1fe among natwns was to begm 1 • gat\ !Parn1•d ahout a ~P<'Ct·fit' area . ists sharing some common ground an \I~ternatp r~ bat e~~n .m 11 huHding a new world of peace, important to USNSA After the and principles about art. exhibition, 'c~~L'li~ traaditl~~djm~~ I opportunity, ~nd well-being fot· ul! 1 1 \\yrk~hop th1• drle_g-ate waR a~- Compare, for example, the ticna!. character.istic~ er . t nA, t I men. The \eterans who flocked stgnerl to a romm1ttee where 1t paintings by John Grillo and l<>ast four' of th · fp· Slit·:!'· 1 back to the American t'ampuses I was hoped that ht• would put to Frankhn Metz. Be:oides their ap- paintings in the seho\•ntef>~. tJ·r' 1 , 1 'tmo 1 sought avenues and ;uc_a,., in whkh 1 worl\ what h(' lear!J~d .in the w.ork- parent differences of technique \ ~ J they ull tl 1 t } I t tl t f t and composition, the two wor.ks thP MeditNTanean genius for; co l pur~ue H?lr ·Jo.pes o I 'H>p a >OU 1r wn mg- n mo tonfl. ,,. are founded on totally different subtle, yet . brilliant rolo~ation I fulfillment. The;,: soon n·al i_zed I ThP,;(' motions ,,.,.,.P thl'n acted approacht!~ t~ painting. :\Idz's surh as GiusPppe ·~antamaso'~ 1 the nc~d to counl,1nate tlw desire~ upon hy thP r!rl.PgatP,; presPnt at \The Sea's Edge\ remains essen- ''Primavera Alia Rotta\ and I and thred t~e llltt•n.•,;ls uf the thP plrnnry <;PS<;H>lls, Th: plenar_Y tially a study of Nature; the Basaldella Afrc's \Paessagli Ros- agg_regate of. scatt~r~d st!Jdent acted upon as many mottol:'s as 1 t forms are abstracted and modi- so,\ two of the best works in 1 uod1e:o. Th~s, 111 19·1 ', 111 Ch1cago, could-, rcfelTl'll many mot JOn~ to fied, but to the end of heighten- the exhibition On the other hand repre:oentat1ves from over 100 the NEC post c_ongTPss meetmg, ing or infusing more life into the th~ ~hree Gt>rman and Dutrh campu~es met and fou_nd~d the and ~rid election of officers. ':fhen Above is pictured the Cafe San Remo which recently opened on Front Street. ~ubject, rather than eliminating pamtmgs typify what might be Natwnal Student AssoeJatton. the !'.JEC, a _small body of regwnal ~~- ~n _opposition to this impres- called, with l~eservation, the Nor- Many Services rel?resentatlv~s, acted upon the swmst 1 c approach, Gl'illo's \Meta- die sense of co'loration, which referTed motwns and rat1fie~ the h · , · lacks the South~rn I'ntJ'macy , • ..:th Today, after fourteen years of app_ omtments of the new natwnal morp os1s reJects any basis in y \ +t. h USNS ff N t d t · warmth, and ei'the 1 • tends to 1 ·o-- grow\''• t e A remains a o 1cers. .Coffee House: a ure an rtes te create a vital, \ · d' d ff · violent reality of its own, in the nore color, as in Hans Moller's joor matde e ort of over 400 col- Study Planned manner of the \New York \Where the High Winds Blow\ eges an universities, represent- ~chool\ of Abstract Expression- Ol' e~se uses it with a vengean~e Il·~g aboudt one a 1 nd on~-half mil- Becauhse of inactivity in past 1 sts. However, Griiio's work lacks as m Nanno de Groot's ugly ton .stu ents. t prov1des many years, t e NSA program at Union the really valuable characteris- \Woman with F'lowers.\ ~erVJc:-s to student and country must be reorganized. The NSA By Gerald Bock ties of this movement-such as The introduction to the exhibit mcludmg_ the Stu~ent Government committee will conduct a study to It is generally ·true that new His field of study had little to lucidity of conception, and spun- written by Fred Olsen whos~ I Info~mahon Servi~e and the Ed- determine how 'Union College can ideas, new products, and new tal- do with the profession .he chose, taneity of execution, found in foundation owns and circulates u;atJOna,I To_urs Inc. qne of make the best use of USNSA and ents are first accepted in the big for before opening the Cafe San men Hke Pollack and de Kooning. the paintings claims that a USNSA ~ ma_m .and most 1mport- action will be taken to better cir- Arrives cities and then slowly diffuse out Remo 'he made a living as a jazz \comparable ~pression\ is shared ant ~en:~ees 1s 1ts role as a com- culate the \vealth of information to the hinterlands. Schenectady is drummer. His ideas and attitudes Vitality Lacking by all the paintings, but this oll- mumc!lt10ns center for tJ:Ie ~eo- rec.eiwd by_ the N~A co;ordinator. neither large enough nor econom- developed while he was a musi- . This misfortune of poor imita- server, at J~ast, can't discover · gra;Phl~ally separated msbtutwns Thts rommtttee wtll br1~g before ica.llY active enough to be classi- cian, and today form the frame- bon plagues a number of the any such unifying, \international\ whtch 1t s~rves. The _member cam- th~ student body ~ew ideas re- fi.eld a::> a big .city, and as a re- work of Cafe San Remo. other paintings shown, and is .element, however vague. Other- puses rece1ve a contmuous flow of ce.n·ed through 'C.S~ SA. Attempts suit, it does not usuaUy originate Redecor-ated Banoom especially prevalent among the wise, the introduction is inter- news relevant t.o student ~o;vern- 1 w1ll b~ m.ade to mform clubs and new approaches, but rather ae- . eight American paintili.gs in the esting as repJ•esentative of a ment, scholarship, and activity. I orgamzat10~s of areas where cepts those which it receives The Cafe is located in .a redec- exhibit Of twenty-six works. The pedestrian attitude toward modern This past summer, I attended USN SA might. be of help to from the nearest center of uea- orated barroom ott Front Stn.et lack of conviction and vitality in art which sees its overdue recog- the N SA ·Co-ordinators Conference them. tivity, namely New York City. which is in the ALCO area, and the works of Grillo, John Ferren, nition and vindication in wome11 's and USNSA Congress in Madison, I --------- While the coffee-house was not within walking distance of the Robert Keyser, Paterson Ewen, dress designs and interior decorat- Wisconsin as the representative of The garbage can was full. invented in New York City, it college. From the outside, it ap- and Neal Thomas, reveals the ing_ Mr. Olsen's financial re- Union College, and afterwards, I So they asked Wade Hale to was modified by the cliff dwellers pe~rs ye~y drab a~d dingy, but debilitated discipleship which sources appear to exceed his abil- the National Executive Council's empty it. to meet their needs. Coffee ms1de It IS a very dtfferent world would inevitably follow the spec- ity to explicate Abstractism. conference consist~d of workshops, HP did. But he never rame back. houses have existed for many~ altoget~er. The· atmosphere of .-po:;t congress :oess10n as newly ~p-! Hale was ~erving a one-year term years in the big city, but within the typical Schen~ctady bar-room 'TL d M. ~ pomted New Yo11k State Regwn I for petty Iarreny at the Illinois· the past eight or nine years their (see Kelly's) has been almost: ~ar~,~,._,. . ·. ay.. ake representative. The co-ordinators I State Penat Farm. popularity has increased remark- ~omp~etely o~literated. The. floor -&.I'IA-' j ~ __ _ ably. Originally, a coffee house IS filled With small, t1ghtly M~ ~ ,----- --------------- was a place where one could go packed tables, and the walls are ~ ~ Loan F d . to ·get a cup of coffee or tea and covered with paintings, water- . . ~ . . .u n S Down to Louis', let us go, something to nibble on while colors, record album covers, and Let the lager freely flow. drinking. Its one unique charac- photographs, some of which are The following is a reprint from I vard is \feeling the pinch.\ Presi- teristic was its attitude towards for sale. In the center of the the Swarthmore Phoemx. dent Pu::;ey was quoted as saying A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere its customers. As long as the room is a somewhat l:lare stage, Harvard University may re- last sprmg, \We felt in the first NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT customer made one purchase, ~ut the true heart of the Cafe · tw ld 1 even if it was a five cent cup of IS located off to one side, near verse Its policy concerning the . 0 years we cou get a ong coffee, (whi'ch l't very often was) t_he left. wall. There it sit.s gleam- disclaimer affidavit provision of ''~lthout money. We're a little wor- the National Defense Education· r1ed now· We've sacrificed a bit of he was entitled to occupy his mg qmetly, pompous, self-satis- Act and accept the Federal loan. what we could lo~tn.\ table for as long as he wished and fied, like a minpr dietY waiting mnds provided by this act it The paper said that there had could be sme that there would for the obesiance which it knows was reported last week in 'the been some feeling among the fac- be no pressure from the manage- js its due and waiting to dispense Harvard Crimson ulty that the affidavit issue had ment, either direct or indirect, for 1ts favors to the masses. This b \ · 1 Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accomodafed in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 him to vacate his place to make short squat chrome plated ex- In a front-page story, the Crim- ecome. meanu~g ess, 'in th_e face room for another t:'ustomer. The presso machine can make four sou reported that President Na- of mo;,e pressmg economic de- i ~H~e-a~~~~~ru~~~~w~~~w~~ili=~~~~~~~~=:rn~a~n~c~~~-~====~~~~~;~~~~~i~~~~~~~~~~~~::::::~:~:~ one went to spend time, to talk and 1s guaranteed to boil any- before the Harvard faculty at a ------- -·- · --- ---- to read the papers, or perhaps t~ 'thing, incl1;1ding, on occasion, meeting. today-. Originally, in the play chess. wayward fmgers. Coffees and fall of 1959, the University had teas, exotic ones naturally, form refused the use of $250,000 an- the bulk .of the liquid offerings, nilally in Federal loan :funds be- . Eventually, however, as the and they range in price from 25c cause of objection to section 1001 coffee houses beg;:~n to become lo- per cup to 65c per cup. Sand- . (f) of the Act, part of which re- calized in the Greenwich Village 'viches, pastries, and ice cream quires the filing of an affidavit area, the rest of the cliff dwell- are available at reasonable prices disclaiming membership in or sup- ers became curious about the ·for those who crave something- a . port of \any organization that Creatures Attract CUJ;iosity strange creatures who frequented little more solid. · believes in or teaches the over- these odd establishments. So be- Features Mu~ic Variety throw of the United tates Gov- gan the tourist trade, and with ernment by force or violence or the tourists came their cash. The The Cafe San Remo opens at by any illegal or unconstitutional proprietors of these coffee houses 8 PM, and stays open as long as . means.\ soon discovered that money was the c.ustomers are willing to stay. Swarthmore was one of the first · not at all distasteful, and they Mondays it is closed. On Tuesdays colleges to express objection to turned their minds to the subject there are Houtenannys, or infor- the affidavit, when it turned down of increasing their wealth. They mal folk sings. Wednesnay thru the funds offered by the govern- soon discovered that the average Saturday thei·e is a featured folk ment orginally in 1958. The dis- tourist wasn't interested in .read- singer. Eve1·y Sunday- there is a claimer affidavit should not be ing the paper, talking, or even jam session at which !llo~ern jazz confused with the so-called 1 y !- thinking. He wanted to be groups from the Tn-C1ty Area th ·h' h h C 1 ° a. amused, and as soon as his amuse- . have their fling. Additional jazz. Zto~b ·~c\ 0 VI lC t e 0 lege did ment wore off, he would move is provklen throt~ghout the weel1 • J •• • . elsewhere. To keep the tourist by a well stocked juke box which 1 he Cnmson story r~port~d that happy, the coffee house. proprie- is nestled in 'one corner of the the ca1.1se fm·. ~econs1derat10n of tor paraded in an assortment of room. · · Harvard's posttton was the fact odd looking characters, and even- . The Cafe San Remo, if it keeps· tha~ ~he Act was extended for an tually he persuaded them to w1·ite on its present course will cer- ad~ltlonal two years and that and recite their own poetry tainly prove to be a boon to the neither ~he members of Congress (often ~he cruder the better). Union student. It should be able nor Prestd~nt Kennedy seems dis- Once the coffee house atmosphere to provide a welc-ome spot of pos.ed ~o f1ght for repeal of the had been demolished by this pre- light in these drab Schenectadian affidavit It also stated that Har- pared entertainment, other types surroundings. The entertainment of acts, such as mimes, singers has been good. Hedy West and and musical groups, soon fol- Glen Chandler were the1•e the lowed. The coffee house became· past two weeks\ the poor man's night club, but 1·etained some of Hs original char- acter by catering to the tastes of those who considered themselves to be intellectuals. This is the coffee house which has become dominant and successful, and .it is this establishment which New York City has exported to its submbs. It is somewhat stJi'prising that it has taken the coffee house so long to reacP, Schenectady, for Schenectady is a college town, even if it is a depressed one. Nevertheless, on Septembel' 22nd the inevitable happened, and Schnectady's first coffee house • saw the light. Attended Russell Sage A little experience never hurt anybody. But it can get you into trouble. Twenty-six year old Hobart .)'unior Oliver was picked up by Greensbor-o, North· Carolina po- lice yesterday. He told them he likes to work in the· \finance field.\ He is charged with passing worthless checks. ONE DAY SERVICE Cam pus Cleaners All Work Done on Premises PICKUP AND DELIVERY 527 Not! St., Schenectady, N. Y. Opf3. Union College Phone EX 3.;.5472 The Cafe. San Remo is in m,any W!l-Y~ a typical coffee house, and Withm the present context of the term, it will probably turn out. to be a rather good one. Its myn• er and general factotum is a man named Bob Massaro, a native. New Yorker who now wants to be called a Schenectadian. He is a college graduate and attended Russell Sage (men's division), · where he was a history major. r;...._,;,,.._,\\'..._,..,....,.,...,....-v.......,,...,....;.......,....-l for the fin est :---... in custo~ clothing .and furnishings 14 :E. 44tk St. • New Yorl. rz, N.Y. THE Model Barber Shop HERMAN FARONE, Prop. \We Need Your Head to Run Our Business\ Air Conditioned for Your Comfort 429 Liberty St. Schenectady I In a class by itself There's never been a casual sport shirt so richly endowed as Arrow Batik Prints. The patterns are subtle, imaginative, and authentic. The sleeves come in your exact sleeve length- plus the famous Arrow contour tailoring for a slim, trim tapered waistline fit. Sanforized labeled. Short sleeves $4.00 Long sleeves $5.00 .,..;_ARR 0 w-:- From the \Cum Laude Collection•• Choose from our ARROW Underwear Collection Enjoy the solid comfort of our new no-sag, no-bind Arrow contour seat. Pick your favorite patterns-dashing, daring, color· ful or conservative. The choice is yours at $1.50 Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. 447-451 Stale St. Schenectady, N. Y. PHONE FRanklin 4-9157 -\'··---=-=lmlilil!&MWIDW&&JWW&'l~M@##~$Wilr$i!li@W~·=~··-· ~\~·---- I ! II. ! ' I. I

4 Ftiday; October 13, 1.961 Friday, OctobE . . . Integration Up North By David Berenson a neighborhood suddebly put their · I houses up for sale. If they learn- Last Monday. night, ~n overflow E'd to wait for a: while. and. not nowu filled Lwtun Htgh School! panic, they would find m m1xed Auditorium to hl·ar the Rei'. ~ia·r- 1 neighborhoods where people have tin J.utlwr King .• J.r. S)H'ak on thP If-teed the situation rationally, ,;q!,Tt·gati<.>ll pn>i>it•iJl in tl:E' L·n.i~Pd l;I'Opt't'ty values have gone Up and ~tall',... It \\'' can t<·ll b) th{ 'ol- not down. ., .. I U. of Edinburgh: · T th Ed'tor of Concordieusl§: : .Ad-vertised as a smal! school With F d · 0 e 1 • . a student-teacher rat1o of 9-1, the G 11\Da ter · . ~. 'De . Q,..... I would hke to questiO_n the pur- ; f,reshmen have been greeted with 11 .:;,. I .:;,, 11 11 ., pose of a college. Is a hberal arts classes having a student-teacher . college supp~sed to . prep::re one ·ratio far above that number. The By Dean Rohrer for a profession, 'Yh~ch m1ght go,t History roA lecture courses are a Dean Rohrer is a senior who 1 Students take a . maximum of . un~~r th.e euph.e~lst,l,c bl~sphem:: ·prin~e exampl.e. ~he cl_assroom 1 d . 1 three courses which have four of rnakmg a. hvmg_, or 1s a col .. , so important m stimulatmj5 s~u· spent the ast aca. em!~ year a~ a I meetings per week, three bein~ lege supposed to p!epare one. for dmts is confied to one recitatiOn Letters To The Editor umt· <>f applau>t•, tho,e In tl~·· In the long run, it is that instdt- auditnrium \'\~''' YHY ,;yr.npatht:tl<: ous methods of segregation by to Dr. King':-; \au\\· Thts ~\C:P\!'t- custom and not the violent meth- ,.,. i,; <\Ul't' thut tlw j.!;rl•at nHlJ<•rtty ods of KKK'ers that pose the of those pt·t>sent thought . that greatest threat to democracy in <\<'gn•gatiun in the South 1\ an this country. The mothers of New My introduction to Edinbui'gh t•\·il tlwt ha,; to ht• endl•<l. Orleans, \\'ho seream epithets at Univenoity was at the \Fresh<>r's student at the Umvers1.ty .of Edm- 1 1ectures, the fourth a small reel- . ~akin~ a.d~cision about \he ,d1r~c- period .fl. week. In m:y case, the burgh. The following article re- 1 tation section called a tuto~ial, at\. t 10 n hts· hfe s work takes. I m !II- . recitation section is fa 1 rly large. counts some of his t•xpel·iciices. tendance at the latte~ bemg ad-· dined to side :\'ith the ·latter opm- · One of the lures to prospective . while a student there. v 1 .sisdaebtlee.r·mc 1 .n°emdpebtyenacnyel~a! ;~u:h:· ion; a college· I.§ suppos~d by ~an~·: Union students is the small col- , people to provide the st_1mulus and legE label. Union cannot attempt rend of each of the three .terms.; not the response. A ltheral ar~s to run an institution such as Yale Occasional papers are also as- colleg-e does not .produce eng1-, Univel·sity. It must recegnize its signed. Final certification far a net;rs, pre-med students, lll' pre-j.J im.itations and take advantage of course is given after passage· of law st\ldents. It produces me.n. tht• \:erv ·definite edge it has over a \Degree Exam\ in June, and if who have heen properly anrl gJ·ari- ·:Large institutions-small person- the student fails ·this .paper, he ously edurated m many ~elds of; a·li~cd rlms~s. I, fur one, am cast- mav t:ik<• a \re!<it'~. in Sertember. learning;. men '_Vho have, m these ling a vo.te for the derreasing of It goes without saying that this fields of leu.rn~ng, recogmzed. a.! t:he .size of clas~e~ lwte at Vnion. acadt•mic appi'Oa<·h mhkes for a way of assoc1atmg the world with! Larry Horowitz, '65. , gn•at degTet> of aeademic freedom themselves .that most nearly ap- · Yd. du tht·~•· ppople havt· the flirst gradP girls, a~d· the race- Conft:rence\ which is not unlike ,;a 111 ,. :<ttitude to·\\<trd rac1al eli:;-. h:u.tPt's who assault ~egroes prac- our own orientation week, with <T.illlination i11 th·· :-..:urth? An•: til'ing pass in• rE'slstance serve ·however the most welcome ex- th\~\ tht• sanrc f•<'\Pit• who feelj only ta rPpulse people. H?wever, ception of the presenc~ of coeds. ~uppo,.,d ~ympath•· fur tlw ::•·gro. th<· school hoar·d~ that,. \~·h~!e pay: During this introduction to .the far :mavin th\ :-: .. uth. hut~'~\'' Ufl 1 1n~ hps<•rvJ<'l' to equaltt:-,, casu~ll~ Cniver,;ity of about li,~U\l ~tudenb , 11 arrn..; \\''\ \ :o-;,.~r\ falllil;.· n<n\·d all tht• !'1:\gTo students .mt.o in Facultie,; of Law, Dlvtnrty, Art, Ill()\('~ ilotOI tllt'll' llt•ighl.orhuod'? \'\' Sl'h<·H•I di,;tnet, and the bus!·. 1\lt>dil'ine •·t al., I found \digs\, IJ., t h··~.- p··oplt· <'••Ldt•lllll s~~r··- . nt•ssman who . turns down . all (bt~d and 2 meals a day) in a pri- gation by law in the South but I NPgro job aprltrants for v~~10u~ vate home with 5 British students. pradi<·t> segJ·.,g-atJon by custom m 1 rPa.~ons (though never offlclall~ Although some of the student and indt>pendenre. Smce most stu- proximates the niche Fate has:! tlwi r ppr,;<)ttal Ill a ttPrs ·; hera use of rare) are a fa~ greater .·. , , ........ , .. ,:,;.,;:.,, .,,,,,t;·.,\-\'·'''·''· ,, ... '. · <ianger than all the Orville Fau- ltightl·nu,.;ly Indignant huses in the world. dents come directly to University··placed for them in society. A co'l-,1 ;E.d·l·t·O•r J•a·l•led ·from \school a young man or lege should not encourage minds woman may obtain a L.L.B. in 3 still in the formative process Mark Acuff, Editor-in-Chief of years, at 21 or 22. Similayly,_ a through posters, monetary prizes, .tlte University of New M11xico mediool student may begm m- or one-dimensional \professional\ newspaper, the 'Lobo, h_a~ been ar- tensive medical studies at 18. As magazines; such as are seen toss-. rested on charges arismg from Professor Allen said at his Con- ed around campus in sudden great: what the paper described as \free- ~!any people m the .t;'o1'.th se!'m Systems Pitted to have a rip;hteous md1gnatwn about thP gning:s on in New Or- The United States is in a cru- leans, Birmingham, and other c!al st!lge of its development, pit- Southern eities. Not many of tmg 1ts system of Democracy them seem to be too indignant against the system of Co~mur,t­ about the happenings in New, Ro- ism. The _balance of pow.er m th1s chelle, Chicago, and New York., struggle Is the. newly m~epend- There are also those people that ent peopl~ o~ As1a and Afn?a, t~e elaim tht>v have no real dislike for I great maJOI'I~Y. 0~ s~o~. are cot . Neg:i·oes 'hut say that they must, ored. Th~ l:mte . a. es ca.nno guard against ; 1 eolored fa~nilyll hold out 1ts .hand I~hfr1endsh£. to moving into their neighborhood these countr1es at e same 1me fo1 · simple Pconomie reasons. They it ~ithholds ~~~at hand from many sePm to add a new entry to the I of 1ts own CJtlz~ns .. li:st of economic axioms. Along I~ everyone 1~ smcere about with the Law of Supply and De- endmg segregatiOn, . they. mu~t mand, we now h:l\'e t.hc law that realize that segregatlo~ exists m. property \'aluc>s ineYitably drop many forms. As Dr. Kmg s~ated, when NPgroes mow into the \A perso_n must stand _up _with. as · 1 bor! 1 o 1 Of course these much r 1 g h .teo u s mdignatiOn nt>ll,!: 1 m • • • d' · · t' n 'n his per great Pconomic wizards do not agamst Iscrtmma Io. I - r·ealize that pmperty \·alues bave ~ona) ma~te~s .as .a/famst a lynch- to drop if ~lO'; of the residents of rng m MJsstss!ppl. Mother Ferro's Restaurant ' Specializing in Italian - American Food Dist:ount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1 115 Barrett St. RECORDS FOR YOUR EVERY MOOD .. • Folk Music.·- Jazz - Classical At Union Discounts Reg. 3. 98-3.50 Reg. 4.98-4.25 Reg. 5.98-5.00 45 RPM's- .85 TAPE - Professional Quality at Wholesale Prices DIAMOND NEEDLES • TRANSISTOR RADIOS • PHONOS • SPEAKERS All AT SPECIAl PRICE'S Come down and browse around. AllEX ~USIC KORNEF. State Street ·at Corner of Broadway Phone FR 7-1112 DEAN ROHRER . vocation presentation, the atu- masses .to decide their career for· dom riding\ the Albuquerque Po- dents in Britain are ahead of ours certaJn' financial or status~catcli-. lice Department. · at University entrance but ..are at ing reasons. If a college 1at all In a signed editoria-l, reprinted · the same level at graduation. encourages a certain .profession, ·here· in its entirety, Acuff describ- not only should it do this by ap-. e(j what happened at a party cele- Student Social Sphere pealing to the intellect and to • hmting a victorious football The freedom in the academic: the individual's ideals of hpers 1 donbal g-ame. . . . . area is matched in the social fulfillment; the college s l>U e \Early ·sunday mornmg the edt- sphere. The various student so- fair to all profesions, or better, to t()r of the Lobo was arrested, be- cieties, rather than the classes, are all ways .<Jf life. : · c~use he asked to be arrested. represented on the S.R.C. (Stu, I maintain that there are wayP \\The editor attend~d a party dent Representatives Council); of .Jiving that have become syn- in the Northwest quad1·ant of Al- and consequently the University's' onymous to some \successful\ buquerque. The party was inte- social life is centered around these people with vacuous intellects, g-:rated. Almost every sort of groups. It is not at all unusual ·to mere la2:iness, and of all things,. racial mixture was present: white, fihd oneself at a formal baH at 4 apathy. I am of course referring' black, yellow, brown, and red. AM on a Thursday morning or at to the ways of living cont:erned \When the editor arrived at the a society \beer and skittles (a with criticism, writing, and free- ·party, he was told that the police form of bowling) party\ on a lance research. There is little had come to the home on a com- Tuesd;:ty night. Certainly private monetary promise founc,l in the~e p.:laint from the neighbors. The flat parties provide a more .sedate fields outside of sudden Metah- .neighborhood has a history of · type of fraternity party. Good ousia~ fame, and cert~inly, few bigotry and lingering prejudice, conversation, hard cider, the in- bridges are constructed from the very tl1ings that UNM stu- famous warm beer, Scotch, and words. But what is produced i>: d.ents have tried so hard to elim- body live in dorms, it seems that· dancing are the usual bill of fare. food for thought, whole meals of inate in our not-so-enlightened the most popular accommodation Incidentally, the \twist\ has not labyrinthian ideas, and not vita- city. •is found in digs or flats at an as ,yet invaded the Univers~ty of min-pills 0 ~ information ana '\The party had been unusually average of £3.10 ( $ 1 0.00) per Edinburgh campus. The mam s~- \progress.\ Wha~ the writer does q1.1iet. Those present at the party week for room and board. The cia! event of the year was Chan- is provide a senous· commentary 'cou:ld only surmise :that certain rooms, of course, are not centrally ties Week in late April. This an- on the very people and society neighbors, <Jbjecting to the racial heated but are nevertheless com- nual event combines the collection that the scientist is honestly try- mixture of the party and the fact fortable and one, of necessity, is of any money the inhabitants of ing to help. And the writer, no ~'hat the home was leased to a reluctant to spend the Is. pieces the city are willing to contribute matter what his financial statqs Negro. had called the police in which are eaten up by the elec- to such organizations as benefit may be, is happy_ he is capable o1·der to discredit the tenants of tricity meters. As a friend JSO from the Community Chest here, of \saying somethmg,\ (a phrase the home. aptly said, \It's so damn cold, it's w 1 'th n1'ghtly soci'al gatherings. 1 t th · t' ts' \I'n d h bl k I t ana agous o e sc1en IS . - Pol1'ce Fu1·ther Pre.1'udice no won er t ese 0 es seep o- I'm sure that 90% of the student venting something\). The WX:Iter gether.\ body plays some part in the should be encouraged to contm~e '\l'he police seemed only too Classes don't begin until 9 AM, week's activities, which are con- writing and criticizing, not be d1s- .wilLing to help out the cause of but the 20 minute bus ride on the eluded with a parade on Princess couraged from \falling into the racial prejudice. Th!i!Y entered ~he excellent public transport system Street. circle of do-nothings\ and \mak- h()Jne without a warrant, burstmg necessitates a early rising. ing himself mist~rable.\ He should T~e door open and marching in Clothes in the College Manner 1 Ocro off To Students HATS ClOTHING FURNISHINGS Men's Shop 514 State St . Desire Preferred be coddled like an insecure child ·unannounced and unwanted. Tl'iey Sports are oortainly not for- and reassured of his necessary rec<>nnoitered the home, sta:Qding gotten in this \well rounded\ aca- place, of society's love for him. people against the wall and shin- demic community, and any stu- Yet where in the college do we ing flashlights in faces. They or- dent with the desire may partici- find encouragement for anyone ·dered everyone to leave or face pate. The :Rugby Clubs, for ex- but men with a \future in o.ur ~~- arrest for disturbing the peace. ample, had five independent units pandil)g laboratory corporatwns ? M:pst people left. Some of them run by a student captain and sec- Where are men encouraged to sit \'.~erE UNM football players and retary. Two other \Yanks\ and back and seriously comment could hard)y afford to have an ar- I played on t~e fifth Club an? through writing? Not in this col- rest on their record • . thoroughly enJOY~~ our ex_per~- lege nor hardly in this country. \When the Lobo editor arrived, ence. To the British, a wm IS n' appears tl).at the arts is the a few people were standing in the most assuredly incidental to a least liberal calling. kitc.il.en bitterly discussing what game well played. The post-ga~e . Paul B. Wiener, '64. had happened. The record player teas atteat to the sportsmanship was off; no one was causing any and a good Spl .M 1 ·t displayed by the . disturbance or talking above a ., To the Editor of Concordiensis: 1 t' 1 1 1 teams on the field. The schedules norrna conversa wna eve . of all the University teams from My initial impressions after \The police burst into the liv- MPn'~ Rughr and J.udo to Worn- three weeks of attending clas~es ing room again, shining flash .. en's Lacrosse and Fencing, fill the here at Union have been qUite lights asking for J.D.'s and order- 39 pages of the \Edinburgh Uni- favorable. My classmates and. ,f ing the few remaining people to Yersity Athletic Club Fixture BuJ- however have had frequent dis- leav-e. Three or four persons re- letin.\ Each member of the vru;I- cusisons' on a topic which has tar- Inained, insisting on their tights ous teams pay a £1 membership nished the glow of Union for us. as citizens, and asking for the fee and provide their own equip- I am referring to the large num- badge numbers of the police. Two her of students in a few courses. young Negroes were arrested - ment. beca.use they had the courage not ~~SII!IJ_£11il!!lilolllm __ ._,P_..IIIIB_,IIIiJ[jll\ljllliiJII!i#l-... ill:a¥!llrliiSIU~~~ t<> run from an unjust exercise of DIAMANTE'S Enjoy our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOTI ST. power. One was handcuffed to a car door. Both. were obviously sobe:r. One was later turned loose. \Seeing .the arrests, and know- ing that they were unjust, the Lobo editor asked to be arrested as well. He had only been at the ·pat•t:v for fifteen minutes, was ab- •solu:tely sober. Yet he was ar- rested, and booked for disturbing the peace. At the arraignment, •IVhexe he entered a plea of not guilty, he found that a charge of Store hours: drun.kenness had been mysteri- Mon. thru Sat. 9:30 to s P.M. ously added to the chatges since l f~;;~T~h~ur~s.;J~o~A~.~M~.~,o~9~P~.M~.~;_;;;~-~~.,~·-~, ~~~~~~-~---~~· ~~-~a;r;·~~~~·~'*~~~~~~s;Fl~s~a~.~~?~:AN. tne booking. b k d OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M.- SUNDAYS 5 P.M.-3 A.M. Jay .__.___ \A young Negro was oo e al<mg with the editor. The charg- Jewelry 315 STATE STREET . . ' Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. Co. Arnold Fisher '.SO ....... .es filed against him also seer'n(!d to vary at different times of the day. \N.either of them were given·, a test for intoxication, for obvious (Continued on Page 6) l. G. BALFOUR CO.· CARL SORENSEN ISADGES - RINGS • FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STAT(ONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS • KEYS~ MEDALS • TROPHIES Write or Call Fraternity J~welers 1 71 Marshall St., Syracuse, N. Y. Phone GRanite 5·7837 Uni< It Pich1red above vs. University< Today Union ll coming Alumni A Home1 pacity of Ale: ·ion vs. Unive: time has beer to tour the c: Physic. Pro'Vej Much concert recently over t! tion of ·OUr nat: ous resea1•ch gr, ers have made mine the genera fitness of the : high school ' OI' The results of r dies- have not favorable; they the present lev' ness among stuc ingly poor, it i~ good as it shol Australian trad Elliot, has cl younger general has gi·own soft l l~fe, none of th1 have been able 1 :rifle reason for physical fitness. Kennedy

13, 1.961. Friday, October 1 ~, 1'961 with 9-L, the with The ses are a stu- case, the large. ospectfve. col- attempt as Yale gnize its of has over person- am cast- of Vnion. tz. '65. oi Mexico been· ar- from as \free- rque Po- describ- cele- football edi- sted, be- a party of Al- inte- sort of t: white, red. at the po1ice a com- The of rejudice, stu- to elim- ightened nusually party certain racial the fact to a in of too of the bursting in Tliey nd shin- or- or face peace. of them and an ar- arrived, the what player any a the liv- flash· d order- to re- tights for the Two - not of to a bviously loose. know- the at the was ab- ar- of not of since booked charg- seemed of the given· a obvious 6) CO.· N.Y. U 't • · U f R Fogelson's DIOD VS. · -· • 0, · · •. • Round-a-bout Predictions . By Jim strosberg I . n· A\ lutn· n···' ·Ga .......... ·e· Army at PennState Although the H)61 edition of . . . : ' · . . · • .1,:1..1. Penn Sta-te appears back on the Unian CtJ!lege's bowling team has Picthred above is action during t~e second quarter of the 1959 Ujtion. vs. University of Rocltester game. Tbe U of R beat the Gamet 62\8. Today Union will seek .revenge before a capac~ty crowd of H().me- coming Alumni and students. Kickoff time is 2 P.M. beam after soundly trouncing; been under way :>fficiaU_y for two Boston U., while Army is still i weeks .. Sunday m~ht. w1ll see the shaking -its collective head after 1 ruH-off ~o deter!Ume 1ts final rep- the :J0-8 luH>i to Michigan. Mo- 1 resentatwn. F1:ve r~::gulars and •· , mentum t:ould m~ke the difference one alternate wrll be chosen. ip an otherwise even ganw. PEN!'J : Cnion is one of six teums par- ' STATE. 1 ticipating in the Intercollegiate 1 Bowling Congress, th~ others be- Duke at Georgia Tech ing RPI, Albany State, A·lbany' Couch Bobby Dodd im·a1·iubly Business College, Sienna, Hudson has the ambling Wrecks up for Valley Community College. this one, but Duke promises to be D··~rJitt• the fact that Union's one of the best in the SEC. ln' howling t\P<\ord over the past few .anotht•r squPakei~. DL\KE. years has ·not been outstanding, :\Iichigan State at )lichigau , h_opes are high fhr this year's con· . · . t mg·ent. Bolst£>red by 1·eturnees Tlwr eould l\as1ly be the hattie Ra~· Sahat<•lli, I'Pt<> Langmore, r .. ,, lht• I'()Sl\'· Both teams C:UIIll'. S<il Esposito. and Vi!H\e Ciuni. the through With t'Xl\(•llent W:JIIlt'S !ast. team expects to finish high in the week, am! shtJu)d be r1dmg high. league standings. Look for the wmner here to take the Big Ten title. MICHIGAN. . _The Art Lawrence sponsored Pmmen have averaged close to Oklahoma at Texas 175 in the past, and expect to do Although Oklahoma ain't what better in the future. Last year it used to be, Bud' Wilkenson has Pete Langmore was the high man, done a good job of recruiting some with a 256 single and 666 triple. life back into the Sooners. Texas' Although Sunday's roll-off will be big line appem·s content to wait held at the Erie Blvd. Lanes, the for the ·opposition's mistakes. · team bowls in match competition They might wait too long, but at the Colony Lanes in Latham. ·not this time. TEXAS. Matches are held regularly on Pictured above .is the Union College Cmss County team, wbich faces Vermont in a home meet tomurrow. Left to right, are: Doug Allel), Lee Michaud, Andy Warde, Coach William Retz, Jack-tlut>ls, Wayne Laverty, and John Sep!es·. ----------------- Venn,ontHereAgainst Improved Harriers A Homecoming crowd exceeQ.ing the 3500 seati:ng ca- Monday nights from 6:30 to 8:30 pacity of Alexander Field is expected tomorrow at the Un- USC at Notre Dame PM. The Union College Harriers face the University of ion vs. University~of Rochester_ football game. The · The Trojans lost out in a real The Independants have come up Vermont in a home meet this afternoon at 3:30 PM. Ver- time has been changed to 2 PM to permit returning alumni squeaker to highly favOI:ed Iowa with their first tz·ophy, the 1 961 mont won last year's contest 15 to 49 and is not likely to :last week, while Notre Dame had Intramural Bowling Champion- , to tour the campus and renew o.ld acquaintances. to come from behind to beat Pur- ship. 'They are now in the process have too much difficulty~ -- --- · ·· ·- - - · Physical Tests Pro'VeHelpful Uppe-rclassmen will reca,ll a due. This could· go either way. of trying to find enough money to with this year's Union squad, the Ketzmen have the potential to letter to the Concordiensis two ·NOTRE DAME. build a trophy case, in expectation though the 1961 score may make a dent into Vermont's year!'l ago, by students of the.Uni- · of future athletic remunerations. be closer. ~treng~h and to w.in agaim;t HPI versity of Rochester, in which Alfred at Union ' th f th t t t ey suggeste ·t at .mon g1ve . Union lost a heartbreaker last \' '·' \ · h d h U . . · · · * The Ketzmen lost th. ei·r f·t'rst. 1 snaturedlary, . or commg mee nex up intercO'Jlegiat~ football. This ·weekend, and should really be up Although the football season meet to a strong University oi The Garnet Fro~h also S<'PS ac- letter was dated the day after the for this homecoming game. UN- .just gotten under way, Coach Carr' Massachusetts team last week, A tion against Vermont today at Much concern has been shown recently over the physical condi- tion of our nation's youth. Vari- ous research groups and .poll-tak- ers have made studies to deter- mine the general level of physical fitness crf the average Ame1·icap high school , or college student. The results of most of these stu- dies- have not been particularly favorable; they show that while the present level of physical fit- ness among students is not alarm- ingly poot·, it is generally not as good as it should be. Although Australian track star, miler Herb Elliot, has claimed that the I'OUn~er generation of Americans has grown soft Because o£ its easy l~fe, none of the research groups have been able to pin-point a spe- :rific reason for the lilw level of 11hysica:l fitness. Union-U of R game in which the ION Witzel has served notice that bas- bright spot was the running of S PM. The fine running exhibited Garnet ~as d~feated' 62-8. During · ketball is just around the corner. the two newly elected co-captains, by LariV Newton and Gary Mar- the three previous seasons, Union Also: On Monday night, Coach Witzel Wayne Laverty and Jack Huels. ris give hopes for a :Freshmen lost by scores of 47-0, 33-18, and Boston U. over Holy Cross will begin try outs for all varsity Laverty placed sixth, and though win against the always highly 6-0. Last year's score was 14-0. Harvard over Colgate candidates, while on the following not in the top seven, Huels talented Vermonters. in favor of Roch'ester. Navy over ·CorneU night, Bob Leonard will begin the showed good. form and marked Because of our past humilia- Pittsburgh over West Virginia freshman season practices. hl ad- improvement over last year. Third tions, tomorrow's contest has sur- Alabama 0 ,•er N.C. State d\t' t .1:d t t t and fourth· Dutchmen to finish h . 1 1 Ion ° can.... a e ryou s, man- the 4.7 mi·le Massachusetts -course passed t e traditiona rivalries Rice over Florida agers for the freshman team will with RPI and Hamilton, in stu- LSU over South Carolina also be interviewed. were Junior Doug Allen and dent interest. Miami (Fla.) over Colorado Sophomore John Seples. There will be a festive Mississippi St. over Arkansas * * * * Today's meet is the 28th with the air. The football Iowa over Indiana · While on the subject of man- ·Vermont since 1909. Union has cheerleaders, Delphics, Missouri over Oklahoma State agers, Coach Turner reports that won 10 and Vermont 17. Besides ; .. ! groups, and returning alumni Purdue over Miami (0.) there are still openings for assist- :facing a stronger and better bal- ' ' The :~~~~::: ~~;::::·:;:::r;·-rr-::: :r:t::i:1 The Beer Flow• H color to the .game. Baylor over Arlcansas ant managers of the swimming anced team, the Ketzmen have l\! Festive Note Heard ;washington over California team. Any interested persons ~hetir own J!roblfems. Lave 11 r ty ids 1!::! :_;.:::,! D t th Brown Should Contact Coach Turner as JUS recovenng rom a co 1 an l\! The football . team W1·11 not let ar mou over THE FIJI HOUSE. , .. , Return to Yale over Columbia. soon as possible. has been unable to run hard. AI- H · · · . . ;,; the fa.nfal'e detract .f~om the Princeton over Pennsylvania len is experiencing leg trouble l::i H issue of the day: beating Syracuse over Nebraska * * * * that may hinder his performance. H i::! ter. And at no other time Cl . W k F rest AsJ part of the publi\c•·ty Aom- If these two runners are able to I 1\1 SATURDAY NIGHT j .. 1 this season or the ·l·ast, ha· s .emson over a e 0 1 \\ rf 11 d th 1 ,,; '' G Georgia over Florida State jaign for the Campus Chest, there pe arm we an e ess exper- i..i t'i arnet been in a better 'POSition Maryland over North Carolina will be a \funeral\ held at Alex- ienced sophomores \really ruli,\ : .... ;::::::;:::r:::r:·;::::rL:r:·;:::r::::::r::::rr::.:::::::::ri:::;::::;::i to do it. Although our 12-6 de- H d p· ld t feat at the hands of Alfred last . Mississippi over ouston an er 1e ornorrow, at 1:15 .. Ohio State over Illinois The stunt was arranged under the · Kennedy Is Active However, by bringing to light Saturday was clue to two blocked Kansas over Iowa St. Chairmanship of Gary van Ghent. many facts about the physical punts in the fi;mrth . Minnesota over Northwestem The Campus Chest is part of a • \ondition of students, these re- 1 Garnet dkefense is at Wisconsin ()Ver Oregon State program sponsored by the Cam- : have been of value. Presi- ast wee 's game hard TCU over Texas Tech pus Religions Council. san . remo coffee house Kennedy has .taken an active safety Dave Eales, tackles Oregon over Arizona P art, not only in increasing the Hanle. and Bob Carter, and half- b k P t B ld It . d · Best Bet: Iowa minus nine over nation's awareness of this matte1·, ac . e e urgwa , resu e m * * * * featuring thursday thru sa;.urday but also in promoting a great.~r six Alfred fumbles, five of Indiana. for physical conditioning. were recovered bv UniQn. Bob Last Week: 16 right-7 wrong. He has appointed a Committee on Carter, right tackle· and udefen- PERCENTAGE: .696. Bob Holland, originally slated to fill the new slotback position created b:r Coach Maras and only recently declared out for the re- mainder of the season, may be • back in the Union line-up soon, this time at one of the end posi- tions. The Dutchmen's offense could certainly use whatevez· boost Holland could give them. dave von ronk Physical Fitness which is headed sive Quarterback\ hy Bud Wilkinson, football.coach. ly stopped eight Saxon • . Tonight ?-t 8:00 PM, a recep- the University of Oklahoma. attempts and allowed only tion will be held in honor of Har- Under Wilkinson's guidance, this y2rds the entire game. Co-cap-. old J. Whittner, Director of Phys- romimttee sends out literature to tains Norm Lavery (right snd) ical Education, at the Home · high schools, high school, and Chuck Hanle (left tackle) Prof.· Wilfred Ketz, on the Union colleges throughout the eoun- have 'Provided consistent hard College Campus. All retuming . The literature suggests vari- blocking and sharp tackling. Dave alumni. students, and friends of nus physical education plans and Tewksberry ha~ turned in a Mr. Whittner are cordially in- programs of testing that the mendable nerformance in his new vited. ~rhool may adopt. The committee position of center. Mr. Whittner, who is retiring in •!• primarily concerned 'vith the · . Offensively, quarterback Dave June, graduated from Union in. •!• junior high school through college Eales has not yet measured up 1920 and returned two years Iat- •!• freshman student. to nis performance w-hich earned er as a varsity football, baseball, '$• him Little All-American mention and basketball coach. During his •!• ... . Union Compares last year. The slack, fortunately, tenure on the acti'l\!l coaching •!• The plan of physical education has been takn up by strong run- staff, his teams recorded a total •!• and testing for freshmen used at· ning backs in the persons of Tom of 98 wins, 66 losses, and 2 ties •!• Union comp~res favorably with Pike, Chick Swain, and PeteBprg- In the coming issues of •!• the pl.an outlined by the commit- wald. (Bergwald scored Umon!s Concordiensis, the sports depart- in fact, Union's program is only touchdown in the Alfred ment wil publish a biographical •!• rigorous. In the game with a ten yard run in sketch of Hal Whittner during his •!• _!:~·:._f!~~~~~Ei!l ar9 given sev- fh·!lt quarter). Last week Union playjng and coaching days at Un- •!• tests: sit-ups, gained 146 yards rushing and only ion Golleg~. ' •!• standing broad 16 yardt:~ passing. This factor will. · · •!• and 50-yard undoubtedly influence the Garnet •!• aeter•m,Jme swimming in running more plays on the . The scol'es of ground than in the air. man's performance on each Tomorrow's ga:me is going to are recorded. The tests are be a tough one. ~ochester, under reiJea~ed in the spring after the leadership of Tony Stranges 1 g.ym program has co-caPtain, who kicked two field completed. Generally, the goals and three extra points of performance rises. The against Hobart last week, Wlll .be •\'\\\-\\''r. impr~vement is frequent- out to continue its domination in the swimming test, over the Garnet. The Dutch:tuen to an intensive pro- are determined to avenge .. the pre- of inshuction, many of the vious defeats of our ,alumni non-swimmers pass their Rochester. 'Pomorro:w they do it. According to Garnet Joe Maras, \The club is this one . . . we're r~ady D&J AUTO SERVICE 1372 UNION ST~ Bra.kes, Tune Up, Wheel Alignment and Balance 016-4895 Dl· 6-9644 LUIGI'S RESTAURANT Speciali~ing in Italian-American food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 10% Discount to Union .fvl~n Enioy Our Sizzling Steaks and Chops •:• ~::::::::::::::::~':::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::. I <· - ·:· •!• •!• ·:· ·:· ·:· ·:· jazz concert --sunday 7 p.m. - ? 314 front st. di 6-9804-ex 3-3041 EXCLUSIVE • • • BUT~ NOT EXPENSIVE University Selections of: Featuring Challis Neckwear British Traditionals Botik Sportshirts Matched· Plaid Overshirts Snap Tap Oxford Dress Shirts That's Ivy and Conventional Slacks .EDDYD 164 Jay Street MEN'S SHOP Sur.ppuJio.n: Show Union Identification Card and get Exclusive 10 per ·cent off on all merchandise. • ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

. ' 6 Grand Prix Analysis · Editor Jailed ••• Frosh Drop 2 1 T: IJ,. ·1·l (Continued from Page 4) By J. C. Clemens Ireland's lead was too much for • 11rrt er reasons. Yet they were ordered On Sunday afternoon at Wat- · him. He finished second· by seven into the drunk tank, a small, poor- kins Glen, New York, 60,000 peo- seconds to Ireland's team Lotus. Union's freshmen soccer team ly ventilated :room crowded with ple had the rare treat of watch· Third went to Tony Brooks in. a dropped a thrilling 2-1 decision 22 persons, one bleeding profusely ing the Grand Prix of the United BRM after the Englishman had· to Darrow Academy in· its season fl'om a wound in the head. The States, an international event driven a singularly uninsph•ed, opener at Garis Field last Sat.· wounded man received no medica:! with points credited toward the albeit steady, race. urday. attention. · · \Driver's Championship of the To the racing fans at the Glen, Union got off to a speedy start \Later they were ordered up-· world.\ the affair was an unqualified suc- by scoring a goal · in the fir~t stairs into the bullpen, a room In order to form a fair basis for cess. The weather was perfect quarter, but then failed to follow about 50 feet by 20 feet, jammed competition, the governing body and the array of top drivers as- this up through the rem!;tindei: of with over sixty men. There were of world road racing, the FIA, set sured that whatever the order of the game, although a last quar- three tables in' the room, bolted up a series of specifications for finish, a fine race would be seen. ter surge saw Union with at ~east to the floor. two toilets, two bash- the displacement, safety factors, It was interesting to note that a half-a-dozen chances to score. basins, and nothing else. Lucky and accessories allowable on cars curious mixture of the old ,.,.orld Rolf Kasper, at center forward prisoners found a little space on . competing for the recognized and the new were present. A scored the lone goal for Union. the concrete floor to sleep. A nu~- . championship races of each coun- troupe of Scotsmen in their tradi- The Frosh were bogged down ber of men had been locked up in try. This series of specifications tiona! plaids seemed to better fit with the added handicap of losing the bullpen for many days, Sev· is called Formula 1. Sunday's the beautiful mountain country- their starting left wing, George eral of them needed medical or event at the Glen was a race of side than did the Watkins Glen Posner, in the first quarter. Pos- psychiatric care. One old man sat · this type. High School Band who wisely de- ner, who had played a fine'game silently in a corner, spitting blood The line-up of drivers for an eli ned playing the anthems of att winfg'thsuff~rhed a hkal ir lhif!eh;fra~- 1 1 into a paper cup. international Grand Prix is al- each driver's country as is tradi- ure 0 e ng t an e w IC Wl Eschews· Subm1'ssioil put him out for the rest of the ways an impressive one. Watkins tiona!. The many tents and trail· season. \The editor of this newspaper · Glen was no exception. In the en; camping on the infield gave h t · 'l · h' · 'ti S The team's grea. te_st weakne&s · as gone o Jal on IS own !Ill a· opinion of rtie crowd, tirling the Glen· a continental aspect and t' '- h d t b I' appeared to be the backs. Steve 1ve uecause e oes no e teve: l'iloss and J·ack Brabham, last tone almost fE-lt that he was at · t 't b · · t · · t' It Ehlers was forced to play with m ac1 su mtssJon o mJUS 1ce. · ,-ear's world champion, were LeMan8 or Monza rather than · t' th t th · 1 \t t' · J a charley horse and Darrow took· ts · 1me a · e rac1a s1 ua ton m probably the favorites, but· men within three hoUI'S from Old Un- full advantage of the situation. Albuquerque is brought into the· like Dan Gumey, Graham Hill, ion. Outside of the fact that six- By rQJ;ating 25 men Darrow had open. Too many colored students: Bruce McLaren and Innes Ireland, packs were being sold by local h b d' tl h d b the advantage over Union, which ave · een 1rec Y arme y could hardly be considered in the shylocks for $1.80 apiece, the af· used only l6 men bocause of a :prejudice ih the city and jn the · kiddie car class. The only notable fair was tastefully run. But all much smaller s\quad. police department to pass over the absence was the Ferrarri team pf this only serves as a back- On the plus side of the ledger matter lightly. At worst, the cars who were supposedly mourn- ground. The facet that will be was the play of the forward line. Lobo editor can get a few days if' ing Count Von Trips' miscue at remembered was Jack Brabham The players' positioning was su- the judge upholds the testimony Monza, although the financial and Stirling Moss, rolling the dice perior and they played a remark- of the police. If he and the other saving might just havE' het>n a ·with heath for fifty grueling laps, ably stable game. man al'l'ested are acquitted, jus- slight considE>ration. a sight that will be long rembened For tomorrow's game against tice and fair play will have made . Both Are Stubborn as long as the banshee whine of powerful Colgate, Coach Turner ·a step forward in at least one the racing car is heard in those has juggled his lineup to compen- Southwestern town. The editor quiet hills. sate for the loss of Posner. 8e· will go on trial at eight AM next ville Simonds will take over the Wednesday morning, wearing a left wing with Rolff Kasper mov- leftover freedom ride button. Go To SAVE ON 'PWIL'S OWN BRANDS! OJJUJ . [Nj!Jt6.aJtdl'A liquor Store 511 UI\JION ST. ElC 3-3111 ElC 3-3110 Friday, October 13, 1961 Best Service in Town SCHUHL ESSO SERVICE 715 Nott St. Come in and Fill !Up with the BEST GAS lN TOWN ' For All Your Paint and Hardware Needs See us CAPITOl PAINT & HARDWARE c·o. 730 STATE ST. Phone FR 4-4123 PET'ER PAU'SE Good Food At Price You Can Afford Opp. North College Gate Moss and Brabham dominated the action during the first twenty five laps. They shot out from the starting grid and after two lap::;, it became obvious that neither man had any intention of holding back and driving a con:;ervative race. They stayed within twenty feet of each other, lap after ht)J, corner after corner, until it ::;eemed that they were settling a personal feud rather than trying to nurse their cars over tht: grueling hun- dred-lap grind. It became a ques- tion of when either or both would be forc-ed to leave after whipping Rooters Hobart Today ing into Simonds spot at .insidej Since this editorial was written, left forward. The rest of the line the trial of Acuff and Charles will be made up ~f Ron Tebbutts Porter, the Negro arrested at the at center forward, Kjell Gustaf- party, has been postponed until OPEN DAILY 7 a.m.-9 p.m. son at inside rii:\:ht, and John December 27. (Closed Saturday} his ear too far. · As Brabham and Moss magne- tized the ey<'S of most spectators, another quiet battle was taking form for third place, a battle which would prove of paramount importaneP as the rac-e progressed. Innes Ireland, driving for the Lotus Team was barely leading Graham Hill in a BRM with Bruce McLaren, Roy Salvadori and Dan Gurney in rlose proces,;iun. This configuration continued for quite a while as Mos,; and Bmhham hat- tied well ahE-ad of thP fiPid for the lead. On the forty-fifth lap, Brab- ham's C'oop<•r finally gaYe out aft- er dPveloping a ]Pak in his oil radiator. Mo><~ whizzt'rl along and lengthened his lt'ad, almost one minute ahead of the pack. Then the battle for second began to take it:; toll. Graham Hill pulled into th(' pits with a foul('d plug and thP onlt'r on the fifty eighth lap was Mol's, Irt'land, McLaren.. Sah·adori anrl Dan Gurney. Two defeats this week for the Dutchmen Booters have added in- centive to Carl Witzel's soccer team. Last Saturday, Union was de- feated by a strong Middlebury soccl't' team by a score of 5-0. Their fast, heads-up ball team put Union at a 2-0 disadvantage by the first half of the game. The three added goals by the Pan- thers in the final half were well earned and a pleasing sight any unbiased, ardent soccer fan. Last Wednesday, Union again bowed to Hamilton but put on a hard fight. The penalty shot for Hamilton in the first few min- utes of the game put Union be- hind 1-0. It wasn't until the 4th quarter that Jack Rowell of Un- ion !'lnPaked the leather ball past the Hamilton nets. The score re· mained a tie up until the final minutes when Hamilton scored anothPr to end the game for a 2-1 \'ictory. The Union soccer team held its own in the Union Hamilton game. The Dutchmen offense, which saw a lot of action, was lacking a g-ood strong foot to threaten the npponPnt'~ goal. The defensE', howPver, was substantially well g-uardE>d by Terpening, Helber, Lipton, and Nelson who all played an outstanding game. This weekend, Union will be facing Hobart at Hobart. Suddenly, the toll on Moss's de- <'l'cpid old Lotu> heeame too much. ThP pod shaped blue car came slowly down tht' bark~tretrh and Moss angrily thrt'w his helmet into his tar while 11ignalling the Berl-:n pits that he was leaYing the raee. II- • • • The disappointment of the crowd (Continued from Page 2) rould he strongly felt as it was announcPd that the bParings of be open to internal Communist in- u • 1 d · t fection. but that problem could ... oss s car la l',\l\\t>n ou · he handlt'd by the UN. (.'omplexion ReH~r,;ed If, if ... This is the situation In on•· lap, thP ,. 11 till• ,.,mplex- as T st'e it in Berlin. The East ton of thP r:u·•• had <'hangPd. lime~ G•·rman experiment could be a In•land I\· a, 11011 · in , h .. !Pad 1,... Mosenw surress and eventually a ing pmln·d h:u d by Hoy Sal\· a- spring hoard to Berlin and West dori anti (;unu-y\ p., 1 ,-,·h•· after Germany. We must do everything YlcLan'll had ~tar!Pd tn '\\\ possible to bring Germany to- ~::r.,und. Th:-< pnl :-::dvad.,ri in a gPther-we are committed to do ~trang~· po-i.ttntJ. ·In•lat•d wa~ run. so. We must .go forward, waging ning w.·ll in an att.- 1111 ,, to J,,.,.P diplomacy oil Moscow. Any Status the il-ad. \l'hiio· hdtind ~:tlvaduri, Quo for the West is a step back- Dan tiurnp~·. a ·typical •·xarnple of wards, a step we cannot take. If thl· n azy .-\mer;ran hut rudder we go back, it must be in full re- whu made good, wa~ pu~hing him treat with the weapons of war to thl' lim1t frum behind. The on our hPt>ls. A ~tt'p forward - pn•,.;,un• ,,f thi.; , :c:<>!ls. vi,;P, J,,.. therP is the pm<sibility of war, a twc·l•t: tli<· ,.,,.,J. ~\'' and the ::;tutus Quo-thPre is the certainty irrc:;pun,;ihll' .\merican finall~· of Communist expansion. rracl;,•d Sal·::ul,•ri who i\ a Jlt'I'Pn· The corP of the GE>rman prob- ially quiet man hy Grand Prix IPm is re,·PiiPrl. Each of us must ,tandanb. II<· 'e~u\''d his eng-inc ask oursel-vPs, \better Red or to overheat and wa;; then o\·er- dead?\ President Kennedy has taken hy Gunwy's l'orschc•. Sal- 1 made his choice: the bruesome vadori never finished. Gurney I possibility is better than poison- made a valiant try for first, hut ous certainty. I Don't keep •em ~~ in the dark I Spread some light at home by Long Distance. One phone call can save writing ten individual letters, if your family circle's that big. Or answer- ing ten letters. The phone is America's No. 1 defense against writer's cramp. NOTHING SAYS lT LIKE YOUR VOICE Garey at outside ri~ht. John Kuhl The Albuquerque NAACP has· _____________ _!__:..:::::::::::::::=::::::::~~::::::::::=::::::::~~~ will move into Tebbut's spot at announced that if the two are right half. Despite Colgate's pow- acquitted it will be for a 1more erhouse, Coach Turner has hig-h general rulingonsimilarmatters .Patronl·.ze ·o· ·u· 'r Ad.vert.·sers hopes that the team's potential which have occurerd in All>uquer- will be realized. que. PROJECTS OF THE BELL SYSTEM range from the reaches of space Unretouched time exposure shows Echo I communications satellite (long lin9) crossing the heavens right to left. Shorter lines are stars \in motion!' to l:he depths of the sea Our job is providing communications of all kinds, wherever needed-whether in the northern snows to flash word of possible enemy missile attack, or in your home or college, or in serving the nation's business. When we.can't fill a need off the shelf, then we start fresh and create the answer to thE;! problem. We've done that hun- dreds of times. We began transatlantic radiotelephone service in 1927. Then we developed the world's first undersea telephone cables to speed calls between continents. We handled the world's first telephone conversation via satellite. And we have started development of an important world•wide communications system em- ploying satellites. When industry and government needecl a way of gathering huge amounts of coded information from distant points, we were ready with our vast telephone network and Data-Phone, which can Actual undersea photo of telephone cable off coast of Florida. transmit mountains of data at extremely high speeds. And so it goes-Long Distance service, Direct Distance Dialing, the Transistor, the Sol(!r Battery-a succession of firsts which goes back to the invention of the telephone itself. Universal communications-the finest, most dependable anyWhere~are what we deliver. Inside: for home, office, or plant, Outside: on land, under the sea, through the air; ® SELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM ABOI M01 Pa1 Vol. 91, No.3 Sh' 7'; The first Union is to ta concert to be ion's Convoc: The guest so man, will play oboe. They are Williams Oboe Telemann Oboe sol' Edgar Cu: department po' oboe soloist is usual treat.\ II man's numbers chestra will .p the Symphony called \a real and Schuberts The Tri-'City only profession area and will spring. For th will combine w Ciub and th1 Choir to pre \Symphony of Curtis state< Quartet will be 29 and the Fii March 15. .Father-Dau Two serena being planned mester. In on and Karin R: guest artists. Rasche \the •g player.\ \His ishingly good t tis pointed out will be held ~ to enable the : rest of the e\ devices.\ This ient for the s1 nity and was : the benefit o \We hope the large numbers The organ r• year will be December 17 1 In addition to series, there w evening conce: with Hugh AI: artist. - Soprano Sal Russell Locke Marienl~hen b other concert. Hisp c(J The first me year of the I Schenectady v; Hall on Wedr at 8 PM.- Watla Guest speal Charles Dunt• dent of the So of our moder: ment, who dis• trip to Spain. research on t .poet Ruben D snowed slide1 1 tumes, !llona and principal < He expressed saying that that Spain w~ democracy. Tl had lost con tion under mumst pressu with the resu: and nuns w1 Western wo1 what that me religious and such as Spain, facts which been glossed or another.\ Emphas The Hispan formal group nectady of St: members, co dor, Spain, Pc other Latin belong to th' ft of these atter ducted in Sp third W edrtes, The Society s: empha~is on Spanish is et a,wards to th dents in eacl schools and li

3, 1961 L ¥N '\ Gate p.m. 5 e h ) ABORTIVE MOTHER Page 3 Vol. 91, No. 3 Hispanics Con'Vene Founded at Union College inl877 SCHENECTADY, N.Y. OCTOBER 20, 1961 Gold1nan Speaks To Sigma Xi POLITICAL FORU·M Page 4 PRICE 15 CENTS S.C. Endorses Review Period

2 Friday, October 20, 1961 Beatings: Southern Racism. Publtshed Frtdays durtng the sC\hool year by the Stu,lent Body of l\nton College. Schenectady. N. Y. Na· tiona! Advertising H~presenta:ivc N~tlonal Advt-rtlsmg Se! VIet?. lnl' .. College PubllshE>n~ ltt'l'll\'.St'lllUIIVt'. 420 Madison Ave .. N. Y. C. F.dttorlal Offleo. Washburn Hall. enion College, Publication 'Office. ~chentK'tady Printing Company. 603 Broadway. Entf'red in the Sche- ne<·tadY Post Office as Second Class :Uail 1Iatter, subscription 16c a l'l)py; $3 a year delivered anywhere in the rnlted States. ~ESIOR BO.\Ril RO:>: A!.D 1-: I>IU ·,q :>: · t; ~ PETER g. t'L'!IW.\HT:l. ·cc l>Ul'UL.\:;S ,\I .\J.l.L:'I.. ·~, ALF'Rl!:D so~nn:n ·c: JA).IES !\'THt1~Ll:I~Ci ·.--~ naviU RPT••fl ...... n 'f';-1 Simon ~oho '6 4 Allen Schwartz 'ti~ Andy FogPlson · 6 .J. Howard Ba !lJ;u·oHh · t,; l Alan Kaufman \6~ JH t;.:t!l:,:• J:X ;1-;•..:3.: [ IJ I, \: ' Jt\: BO.\RD .Editor-ln·Ch!ef . Busmess ~lanager .:.I<.tn.tging Btlitor NE:'ws Editor 8ports Editor .\..ting FPature Editor A~sistant News Editor ...... !\.lakeMup Editor .-'\ssistant Sports Editor C'opy Editor Special Events Editor Two young men who were beat- en Oct. 11 in McComb., Mississippi related their experiences to an official of the Justice Department, and to a press conference, Oct. 12. They called for more action by the Justice Department in Mississippi to protect persons working on the voter registration campaign and Negroes who try to register, as well as protection for students involved in non-vio- Jent protests against segregation many area. Bill Heisl€1r '64 _ .:\lurttn :-,;t'\\ m.tn 1,1 Steve RaymonJ '6~ Steve Factor '63 Peter Ambrose '6~ . ....... Exchange Editor .bo~\tHnt F,·ature Editor ditional assignmentS WhiCh, in the Opinion Of the ·profeSSOr, Local l\dVE:'rtising Managar !':allonal Adv~rtlsing Manager WOuld Serve tO draW the COUrSe together. The StUdent .\dvertl.stng Co-Ordinator Paul Potter, National Affairs Vice President of the United States National Student Associa- tion, and Thomas Hayden, past editor of the University of Michi- gan newspaper, The Michigan Daily, met with Burke Marshall, Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights,. to explain that they believed voter registration was being hampered in McComb l>y harrassment and intimidation of Negroes by private individuals and state offiicals. ~\'\' 'option ~tanager would not attend classes during the period but would work t'1n ulation !o.fanagf'r l:.unnJt· .:'\,t.,..,~l'. \'l.l t, I Cal \\\ h ·,;.: REPoRTER .sT.u·F independently with a minimum of professorial guidance. n;noc·rt n..tL •:· ·.,:: •:···••\ .1·1 II· .. J: n .. '· u.' 1 :\url·k. AI Pizer. Fred Such a reading period, we feel, is a mature and desirable RosPnhE>rg, Hkk ~dmrf Hoh\' t ~twrwm Hnw.11 d ~iPa\Pl. RnhF>rt Rkloot, P£Ltl:'r Bussman. llrad <'w•·<>n••y J•>hn Thnrrw :-l<od T .. wl Paul Turner. [.awton !11or· approach to education. Realizing that such an arrange- riSOn •. Ellsworth T1a' ~. K.tl ~llllt'~tlt•l, ·Erh Toolt->L <'AXDIDAT~: RI~PoRmR sTAn' mentis not practical for the engineering division, perhaps Potter and Hayden had gone to McComb the day before to ob- serve events arising out of the protest demonstration last week by high school students in which 113 were arrested. They spent Tuesday, Oct. 10, intet•viewing whites· and Negroes to try to discover if there was danger of violence, and to discover what the high school students planned to do on more demonstrations. Andrew Acker. Arnold IJeikuiUio. EJ\\did B''\\\· Wa)me Butl\r. !llartln Cohen. it might be exempted frOm lJ. COllege Wide reading periOd. !\fartin Jay. ~tt<l K:nb. R,·h·:: !'~!'.1:::•:. lluu~L.t.:l LaB:er. Edward V. 'lloore. Jon ;\\•·Uh>. n .. l·H•I l'.<r' II\• .I,,,,, .• Wii' ''· [.·,r:y H•nowltz Brad Rorltrnber. With a l'eading period jn mind as the u1timate, we BD<IXI':~s ~TAI'\F ' Robert Bulson. Paul I•'eldnH.n. J•:.J K•·alls lven\ !.u Flnre. Larry Ptalis. strongly urge the Faculty Council to vote in favor of estab- Al Sangui!llano. John Stmoni. Barry \\elnst~ln lishing a revieW period Of fOUr days, from Thursday, Jan- More Oil For The Lamps Furary 18,~0 Monday, January 22, for this semester. reeuom And Res\'onsibility In this column two weeks ago, we suggested that the '.1!' Merely Observing library hours be restoreu from a ten o\clock closing hour to the normal eleven o'rloc>k hour of last year. Within that time little or nothing- has been done to improve campus study facilities. In fact, conditions have worsened. Witness the forty students using a twenty-six man capacity, all night study room last Wednesday evening. It is true that the· administration has opened the Gen- eral Engineering Building for study until two o'clock every evening; however, the- building actually is not useful to the student body until after the Evening Division Classes have been concluded, and the building emptied, sometime between ten and eleven. Consequently, for those unable to study efficiently in either their fraternity or dormitory rooms because of excessive distractions, no place on cam- pus other than the limited all night study room is avail- able within that important hour. To check free speech and discussion in the name of On the day of the beating, they protection of the individual is to pervert the meanihg of were observing a demonstration f d T · hdr hid . of approximately 90 high school ree om. o Wit aw or • e the unpopular or contro-. students who had walked out of versial is cowardice and delusion. To abide by the sug- the high school rather than sign t - d ul f 'd . · statements that they would not ges Ions an r es o an outsi e body whose JUdgment one participate in future demonstra- finds in error is hipocracy. The CONCORDIENSIS joins tions. They were told that their -th th dit · 1 b d f th. Q C 11 PHOENIX grades would be reduced by ten WI e e ana oar o e ueens o ege · per cent and that if they re- in condemnation of the City College administration de- turned to school the ne.xt day · - t l th kin -t f A · they would be jailed for tres- CISIOll o cance e spea g engagemen o meriCan passing. The students had march- Communist Party national S!3Cretary, Benjamin Davis, Jr. ed to the Masonic Temple to dis- . . . . cuss their plans, and then began The ability to make sound and sober JUdgments IS to march back to the high school impossible without the freedom to hear and judge the to enlist more students in the di · f h · walk-out. vers1ty o t ought espoused by man. To save us frolJl. According to Hayden, he and hearing the \base\ or \wrong\ is to deaden our faculty Potter drove along beside the of critical judgment. We must be equally aware of the marching students_ Behind them was a police car, and behind that danger of parental protectors such as the John Birchers was a car filled with newspaper- f th t · d h t' b li men. Hayden said that just as Realizing the new Library requires that a full time as we are o e u oplan reamers w ose ac Ions e e their car stopped for a red light, staff member must be present at closing, may we remind their wishes. College administrators must carefully evalu- \I noticed that the police had Mr. Webb that onlY five da\'S are involved. With a staff ate the desirability of their wish to fondly protect the turned off.\ , , Hayden went on to say that as large as Mr. Webb maintains, this would necessitate student. This, we believe, the administration of Queens practcially at the moment he no- only one late night per man every week. We feel that one College did not do. ticed the police were no longer following them, for the first time extra hour each week per librarian is not an unreasonable The tide of public opinion is too often a controlling all day, a man rushed up to the request from the student body. force . But, certainly, in a democracy, the minority opinion car and pulled open the door on the right hand side. Mr. Webb has stated that he is trying an experiment should be able to be expressed without fear. The one has Several Blows Struck The man pulled Potter out of t}te car and began to hit him. Ac- cording to Potter, the man \ad- ministered several blows,\ and knocked him down. He then ran amund the car. pulled Hayden from his seat .and \administered\ another beating to him. Both nien used the principle of non-violence, they said, and made no attempt to strike back. A few minutes later, after their assailants had disappeared, the police anived. Potter and Hayden filed \John I;Joe\ complaints at the police station, and were then escorted out of town by the police on their way to Jackson. At the press conference held Thursday, Potter commented on the \irony\ of the situation. He said that it was ironic that he and Hayden should receive such great attention for a beating \of relatively minor proportions\ while Neg1:oes who risked their lives in McComb and elsewhere get so little attention. He went on to say, \Om· wounds will heal . . . our scars are on the outside, but they must live\ with segre- gation all the time. The two men asked for better coverage by the press of similar situations throughout the South. Loyalty Evaluated Despite a protest from the Uni- versity of Michigan Student Gov- ernment Council, the chemistry department will continue to use non-academic evaluations for stu- dents in elementary general courses this year. The evaluations include com- ments from the instructor on the student's personal matters, emo- tional stability, soCial responsibil- ity and loyalty to the United States. Last s]lring, the SGG passed a motion which opposed the use of the forms. Professor Leigh An- derson, chairman of the chemistry department, S!!id that members of his staff had re-examined the forms, but could find no reason to dispense with them. The forms were initiated about a decade .ago and supposedly sup- ply the kind of informa_tion sought by medical schools and govern- mental agencies to which stu- dents apply. \If we didn't have the forms,\ Prof. Anderson said, \we wouldn't be able to write recommendations for these stu- dents.\ Waivers will be granted to in- div-idual students only if they · promise not to ask for character references from faculty members connected with the courses using the e>'aluation forms. Anglican Bishop Dr. Mervyn Stockwood has a new definition for a psychiatrist. He said in a London speech a psychiatrist is \a man wh(} goes to the folies bergere and looks at the audience-\ By the way, do you know who was the first American to win the Nobel Peace Prize? Theodore Roosevelt became the first American to win the Nobel PPace Prize in 1906. 117 Mohawk Ave. SCOTIA, N. Y. for one month to see the effect of the ten o'clock closing often been right. To be cajoled by the public opinion, as it hour. His experiment is based on counting the number of appears the adminimistration of Queens College was in students using the library in the evenings. May we suggest the case of CoJllmunist Benjamin Davis and the adminis- another experiment to ~ir. Webb. \Ve propose that he leave tration of Hunter College was in the case of the refusal the Library open till ele\'en one night this week and count to rent its assembly hall to the National Review, an ultra the num:ber uf ::;tuJcnl::; inl~.:te:skJ in u,.,;iug lhe extra hour. conservative publication, is a cowardly and saddening We are confident that tlw number will not diminish signifi- action. It is also an infringement upon our freedom of cantly frum a cuunl lah·n al nille v'clvck We do not be- speech and assembly. It is, indeed, the negation of freedom. lieve that the studl'nt body :;hould be forced to wait out Mr. 'The freedom to examine ourselves and others, to ex- Webb's ~XpL·rimental :nvnth ~mJ sub~:;l·quently suffer scho- amine all ideas and actions, we hold to be a precious right. lastically. 'To infringe upon this right is to hurt ourselves. Let us remember: the unexamined life is not worth living. THRU NEXT WEDNESDAY - Readi11g Period Reviewed Last week after much debate, the Student Council The Union Future Of took the first step in establishing a reading period at Many aspects of Union College - student activities, Union. They pr0pns\'d th~t the Fac>u1ty Council institute curriculum, physical development, fi.nancial needs, frater- a four day n·,·il'\\ !Jl'l\iuJ between the end of classes nities, and others - are presently under study by a dozen ~nd. t.he start 0f. final examinations. Now, ~he faculty must 1'ask Forces, part of the administration's ten year Long JUdiciOusly consider the need for such review. Range Purpose and Development Plan. It is hoped that \Ve beliC'':f' that id:rn the faculty shortened the time the Task Forces, cbmposed mostly of Faculty members, allotted to final exams fron1 two weeks to one week, they will make every effort to share their discussions of these did not in any wav shortl'll the amount of material for important areas of college life and development with the which each studL'Ilt was to he held responsible. This semes- student body and that the student body will respond with ter's examination scht'dule ends classes on Saturday, Jan- mature and considered suggestions that may make the uary 20, and begins exams on Monday, January 22. A one Program a more effective and pull'oseful one. day interval between examinations and classes, coupled ------------~--'----------­ with but one \\'eek for exams does not allow sufficient time for any student to efficiently correlate a semester's work . into a meaningful whole for each of five courses. A re- view period, if only fuur .:uys is definitely necessary. Some critics of the review period have pointed out that since the all men's index has been decreasing, the extra time with the Jn·nfp~sor~ might do more to sustain the index or bring it up then would several days of in- dependent work. On the contrary, we feel that one reason for the index drop is that the student is not granted enough time on his own tho~e last few weeks to make his work meaningful. Actually. the review period should be a temporary institution, a prelude to a reading period. In this time, ap- proximately two wet>ks, the student is given several ad- Basic Aims Program By Howard Barbarosh This is- the first of a series of articles dealing with the Basic Aims Program for Union Col1ege. The college has been divided into twelve task forces dealing with various aspects of the college. These Committees are composed of faculty me!JI.bers, administra- tion personnel, and trustees. The breakdown of the task forces is: Faculty Resources, Administra- tive Support and Organization, Academic Affairs, Other Pro- grams, Admissions,, Student Fi~ nancial Assistance, Plant and Campus Development, Extra-Cur- ricular Activities, Fraternities, Public Relations and Support, Fi- nancial Resources. Task Force 1 deals with fac- ulty t·esources. The- purpose of this committee is to recommend a ten-year faculty schedule, fringe .benefits, tenure, living and work- ing conditions, etc., requisite to recruiting and retaining a super- ior teaching faculty. The committee is composed of C. G. Suits, S .. B. Eddy, and E. B. Morris from the trustee body, and Professors H. E. Way, G. M. Ketchum, J. Finkelstein, N. A. Mercer, and W. Schwarz from the faculty. (Continued on Page 6) New Polish Film ASHES AND DIAMO·NDS \Hauntingly Fascinating\-New York Times Show Time: 7:00 and 9:00 Down to Louis', let us ao, Let the lager freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTA·URANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accomodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 RECORDS OF COMEDY - JAZZ - CLASSICAL - FOLK AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS Tapes and Diamond Needles Professional Quality and Wholesale Prices APEX MUSIC KORNER State St. at Corner of Broadway Phone f~ 7-1112 Slide In By Die Slide Ham personality in Utilizing an let of his emo· cation of hi: culled musical Mar~ Ath~ TurJ (The follow its entirety frl of the Chicag( Od'in! Dva Hike! Football is l: ments on c~ with the lack < among the car revolted and wing\ football Known pro ·\flying Bolsh will use thor' tactics. Amon! they will call · sian. Accordi11 campus politic to be identifi4 change tradiH enclature. The respectively, a: ist and rigl: Center positim member of tl: Socialist Leag1 A backfield 1 as a \change and huddles wi \caucuses.\ V known as \de' At a secret strategy, the Trotskyites W< the team only of sneak plays. The team wi ciple, from m Liberty play. placed by the · soleum\ pla:y \withering awE team's morale. Cheerleaders cheers,; instea the opposite st the cheerleadet ings and gree~ \New recru: eouraged,\ a• group's spokes have 25 guys purge is in or The first of Society meetin 7:30PM on M in the Hale Lounge. Dean l School will speaker. The l Thomas Johns< a question and follow the for dress. He wet inquiries may ing law entran< under-graduate jects studied in question conce1 may be asked The sustaining society cordial! ested student: meeting. ·,,, .. ,,,,, WAl PH ARM 511 St FR ~

2 i>ut-llshr>d l·~r I·\\ 1 . · ·..: • •· ... • •··•. YPar hy tt..-...; 1'.t' H 1~ .. ~ Collt>J.{fL :-;, ~ • .,. .1 !~ :--.. \ t Uunttl AdY•:: , ... 1,,.: 1.· ;•·· \\' !\.'H.ilonal .\ ;,. • · .: :-- !-. l'oilt'ht\ l'tJI. .., It 4:0 \la•iHII't• .\'-• :\ \' ~· 1-{t•'-.. \1 I• I l'I<T'FI~ 1: -· ·Hn I .. ,· ', '· \- ~ .\ Ll'l;l.'.l• J \ ',., - ' !It\ ! H · '\-1t1 ,,,,..._I • I .\ lf• II :\' J \ I' .\rdy F· ._.:, -··· L[ ···\, I 1. 1: 1,',1>'11 t~\f:.p '\\'a:lbhurn HnH. 1 ·, .n t'\:! .. ..:•• l'ullllt anon OtfH't>• •• , •. '.t·!Y !·~:nt:nJ l'l•llll'anr. f·l•:! 1: , : ,, ,11 I>.'•·Jt' 1 :n t.ht> ~l·ltt>· r· · dv J· ..... t tl!l'ltt> .1~ ~t•cond Class ~.! .; 1\Lt:~.:. sul>:;•ttpttun 1'5c a :·y. i,i a y··ar .~t-1:\t•rPll uny\vhert\ •o ') .. i 'tt!'.··d ~!Hlt-9 t:t'<ll II t'tlld I·~~~ ... r , -.:-. :'vl ;l!,ah•·r - 1 ·~ I ).l. • • •· 1',1'\\ ~ J:,j, t.•t :--:, ...... J:.J:t .. t r· ..• · ,,, \' 1 ~- 111111· , .. • ,, .• \\o·wfl 1-:«litor :\{.d,(• tl!• E.lttul - .... t11 t ,..., : til ~ ~ 1:-111 or 1 q \ J:d:tn! t: 1:\ ,.,,, ~ E·IJtor I;,, l .. tllO.:I' l:dlttH' \ [ fl J\ I :'' It !l H· _-.:. • \'I,. :-:·.-\. 1: \' • , . , • 1 ~ :/;,},;:~~:,~ ditional assignments which, in the opinion of the professor, ' '···· \\\ \\'\\~\' would serve to draw the course together. The student ,., .... !'.• • I ·:-'ll.; I 'ot·t l( dlfHl!llr would not attend classes during the period but would work ' •>I \-f.tll.t._;o I \' ' ~ . . . \{,,,,,,\,. !. It Lt·uH lilt 'I ·\I l independently with a minimum of professorial guidance. '~ ,. ·· · t····' Such a reading period, we feel. is a mature and desirable .... :--l<l····· l-'.•l,t>! r \' · ... ~r .. , approach to education. Realizing that such an arrange- ,., '\ 1 ., , .. 1 . H 1 I'll I: 11 t( .. r u• ment is not practical for the engineering division, perhaps ., ... ,, •• \ ·'.. \ \· 1 ''/' .•.• ~:i\~:\ ~:·:.'::;~.· it might be exempted from a college wide reading period. \ }.~! ~. '' J , > I~ r.\ \' \ r•· ·' n. 1 \ o~ .. ' With a reading period in mind as the ultimate, we 1 : ...... 1 ,. t.:t \' 1 '\·\' \ 1 \II ~. •. ,., •··• . .r\ strongly urge the Faculty Council to vote in favor of estab- ·11 ~\\ • 1 • • • .. lishing a review period of four days, from Thursday, Jan- More Oil For The Lamps Furary 18d, to Monday, January 22, for this semester. ree om And Responsibility In thi:- t'<tltlmn t\\·., wt···l\..; a~\· \\'t' suggested that the library hour:-: lw l'l':<\l t!nl !·n,n: :1 t•·n u'L\lul·k dosing hour to the nor·m:\1 t•lP\'•'!1 .. ·,.J,l('k l~<dll' ,,f bst yl'ar. \Vithin that time !itt It• or not bin~ lt:!\ iJt·t·n dunL' l11 improve campus studv facil itiv:-:. In fad. t·· >nd itittn,; han· wnn.;ene>d. Witness the f'orty st wh·nt s ll'-'1!1:_: :1 t \'.t·llty-::.:ix mail capacity, aU night study J'll!tn1 l:r..;t \\':·dJw..;day t•\'t·ning. It is trul' th:tt tilt' allministratiun has upened the Gen- eral Engin·~ering Buildin~ fot· study until two o'clock every evening: ho\\'l'\'t•r. tlw b1lilding wtually is not useful to the student bod\' until alter tb· En•ning Division Classes have bel'H cmwl~Hlt•d. and t l:P building emptied, sometime betWCL'n ten and t•leH:tl. Coust\quvntly. for those unable to study efficiently in t·itlwr tllt·ir· fra ter·nity ol' dormitory rooms bet·nUSl' uf t'Xl'('Ssin• di,..;tJ':lL'tiil!IS. nu place on cam- pus other than thl' lin:ltl'd dl nig-ht ~tudy room is avail- able within that important h1•UI'. Realizmg tilt' tW\\ L!iJtaJ y lvquirt·s that a full time staff membl'I :nu:'t be ph.'• tii ,,t dusing, may we remind Mr. \Y~:bb that u11ly fiw Lby:-: alL' in\'lll\'ed. \\'ith a staff as largL' as ).lr. \\\·bb lllaintains. tlli:- \\'ould necessitate only one lak night Jll'l' man t'\-l'l'Y \Wek. \Ve feel that one extra hour l':ll'h ,,., ..];: l't'!' lilwt !'i:m is nnt :t!1 unrc>asonable request from the studL•nt bod~·. ~h·. WPbh ba-· st:lt··d tl•:!\ h<· is trying an Pxperiment fur· uttt' tll\nth l•• :-L·,· t!rt· •.·ll\·t ,,f tilt· kn u'duck closing hour. His \'X]••·ri::ti·!~~ ic· 1• !\•·•I •·n ···•liP! ing tht• numbPr of studt·llb li\'Jrr tl. ·!:it.::· 1.1 ~:,, • ·, ni11.:_:-.-:. :\Lty ',\.l' suggest anutlwr t'Xl···r ~m,·::: l· · \!! \\', i:l• \\· .. (•l'l']'ll:<t· that he leave tht· Libr<t!.\' •. ,.,.!. :1:1, '··· · ::. ::,· r1.;ht tl1is \\·,.d, and count tht· HldLLl·! .. 1 ~-l~d\:, ....... 1. .l ... ~: • .t. Lt.:~: .. ~ tl:t- t:Xlla huUl'. \\'t• an• l'\llf:•it·Ill ! l::rt ~ i .. :.\!!:l.···r \\'ill 1111l diminish signifi- l'antly ft .. :!. .t t.·ut:\ ~.,;\ :, .. : •. :L• ,:,], ... !.. \\\· U() nut bt:- lie\·e that th· :-tud··nt L·\h -h••'t!ol f,,. f,!·n·d '\wait out .!\.lr. \\'ebb's vXI'' rlll!•·!t1al 'rl•r:1ti1 .:.>!d ,..llhs<·qu•·Htly ::.;ufft:r ::>cho- last il'al!~·. Reatling J:Jeriod ll.eviewed Last ·.\t·,·k al!t'r rnttl'h debail•. thP ~tudent Council took tlw lir~: ~kJ• i11 , .. ,-t;tbli~hing a reading period at L'nion. Th··~· !'~'\: .. ,.·d th·,t th:· fmulty l'uuncil institute a four da~· lt·•.i,\:. 1···1 ; . .,j !J,•t\\'t'l'll tilt· t•nd of tlasses and tht• :-:t:t!·t ,.f t;?::tl ,.,::tt:lit~:ttiitll~. :\:m\·, tlw fac·ulty must juuieiuusl\ t·• nl~'id··t t b· n• ·t·d f(lr ~u('h n·\'iew. \\'•· h .. l!· .. ,. ·1 ·1 .,, : .• :: til• f:l!·'llty ~hrl)1l't1£'cl thP timf' allottt'd \10 flll:t.l r·:>;o~.t•l:- f I•>!,; 1',\'o \\'l'l'kS (u llt1l' Week, they did nut in :til\'\\''\' :<L<>tl•·JI tl1<· an10unt of material for which t•at h ;;t '\! '\l\ t.' L, i.dd rt·:']H•Il:;ibll•. This semes- ter's t•xaminatlr·ll sl'lll'dtJ! .. ··nd:-: cla~Sl'S on Saturday, Jan- uary :2U. and L,· . ..:lll::; t·x.r :n, \II :-.I\mlay. January 22. A one day intl'l'\'al bdwt·•·n ,·x;o~J;i;;atiuns and classes, coupled with but on•· \\'L'l'i\ f,,?. •<-::nn,- .]'\'·\'not allow sufficient time fm· any sturlt·nt lrr dfi,·iPn\1;; c<tiTPiatP a semester's work into a meaningful wll .. l·· t .. r ··<t.l'h of fin· courses. A re- \'ll'\\' (Wri•Hl. 1! \nl\ I· ·m· :.~\·::- i~ ,J,ofinill'ly necessary. Somt' t·r·iti<,.; •·! thl' Jt·':Jt\\' ]:t·ri\d ha\'e pointed out that sim·p th•· all t::•·n·:-: 1:rrk:..; La::; hil'll l.lctreasing, the PXtra tinw \\'it:1 til·· !•l·>l•-'.-\>1· Jllight d,, 111llf(' to sustain the indl'x \~' lir11~.~ 1\ ;q. tllt'll \\'llllld sl'n•ral clays of in- d(·pendt:nt w .. 1 k < 1:, t li·· .- .. nt t<tl ~·. \II' ft·t·l that one reason for the inJcx dr<•!• tc t ll:~! ; ;,,. \t udt·nt i::; nut granted enough time on his \1\ n t h,,...,,. last It·,\· wr·•·ks to make his work mPaningful. Actually. tilt· ,,.\.Jr'\1' !\'ll<nl sh\ulrl bl· a temporary institution. a t.r·,·Jud< t .. <t r• <~<irll~ l\'riod. In this time, ap- proximatt·ly !\\11m·..!.;::;, tl11· !'!mll'Ilt is giVt·n sevc>ral ad- To check free speech and discussion in the name of protection of the individual is to pervert the meaning of freedom. To withdraw or hide the unpopular or contro- versial is cowardicP and delusion. To abide by the sug- gestions and rules of an outside body whose judgment one finds in error is hipocracy. The CONCORDIENSIS joins with the editorial board of the Queens College PHOENIX in condemnation of the City College administration de- cision to cancel the speaking engagement of American Communist Party national secretary, Benjamin Davis, Jr. The ability to make sound and sober judgments is impossibl~ without the freedom to hear and judge the dh·ersity of thought espoused by man. To save us from hearing the \base\ or \wrong\ is to deaden our faculty of critical judgment. We must be equally aware of the danget· of parental protectors such as the John Birchers as we are of the utopian dreamers whose actions belie their wishes. College administrators must carefully evalu- ate the desirability of their wish to fondly protect the student. This, we believe, the administration of Queens College did not do. The tide of public opinion is too often a controlling force . But, certainly, in a democracy, the minority opinion should bt> able to be expressed without fear. The one has often been right. To be cajoled by the public opinion, a::> it appPars tht> adminimistratiun of Queens College was in the cast' of Communist Benjamin Davis and the adminis- tration uf Hunter College was in the case of the refusal to n•nt its assembly hall to the National ReYiew. ;111 ultra cull:::iL'l'\ ali\·c uublicatiuu, i.:; a <.uwardly and saddening action. It is also an infringement upon our freedom of ::;pet:ch and assembly. It is, indeed, the negation of freedom. The freedom to examine our'3elves and others, to ex- amine all ideas and actions, we hold to be a precious right. To infringe upon this right is to hurt ourselves. Let us remember: the unexamined life is not worth living. The Future Of Union Many aspects of Union College - student activities, curriculum, physical development, financial needs, frater- nities. and others - are presently under study by a dozen Task Forces, part of the administration's ten year Long Range Purpose and Development Plan. It is hoped that the Ta.sk Foret's, composed mostly of Faculty members, will make every effort to share their discussions of these important areas of college life and development with the student body and that the student body will respond with mature and ronsidered suggestions that may make the Program a more effective and purposeful one. Basic Aims Program By Howard Barbarosh This is the first of a series of at·ticles dealing; with the Basic Aims I'm gram for t: Ilion College. Tlw coi!PgP has been dt~·ider! into ti\'PI\'!• task fnrcPs dPaling with V<u·ious aspects of the college. Th<·~t· ( 'ornmittees are composed \f faeulty members, administJ·a- tion JH'I·sonn<>l, and trustees. The il!'eakdown of the task forces is: Faculty ResoUl'<'es, Administra- tive Support and Organization, Academic- Affair~. Other Pro- J!:ntms, Admisoions, Student Fi- naneiul Assistance, Plant and ('ampus Development, Extra-Cur- r·i .. ulaJ· Activities, Fraternities, Public Relations and Support, Fi- nancial Resources. Task Force 1 deals with fac- ulty resources. The purpose of this committee is to rerommend a ten·year faculty srhedule, fringe !.enPfits, tPnur·p, living and work- ing conditions, ete., requisite to 1 et'ruiting and retaining a super- ior teaching faculty. The committee is composed of C. G. Suits, S. B. Eddy, and E. B. Morris from the trustee hody, and Professors H. E. Way, G. M. Ketchum, J. Finkelstein, N. A. Mercer, and W. Schwarz from the faculty. (Continued on Page 6) Friday, October 20, 1961 , Beatings: Southern Racisnt Two young- llll'll who \\'Pl'l' ltt>at- en Oct. ll in MeComb, 1\!i:-;~i·ssippi related their l'Xperielll'<'S to an official of the Justi<'P D<·Jl~ll'tlll<'lll, and to a press \'on fpn•IH'L'. Dl't. 12. They eallt•d for nwre action b:> tht• Justiet• lll'Jl<H't111t'll'l 111 Mississippi to prott•ct persons working on the l'oter· rq;istrati<~n campaign and :'\egr·o,·s who trv to register, as well as ]H'otel'tiuil fur students involved ir1 rwn-vio- lent protests against \Pgr·egation in any urea. Paul Potter·, National Affair,; Vi('e President of thP L:nited States National Sturlent Associa- tion, and Thomas Hayden, past editor of the Univerl:litv of Michi- gan newspaper, Tht: :\Iichigan Daily, met with Burke :Vlarslwll, Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rig-hts. to explain that tlwy beliewd voter t·egistration wa::; being hampt•red in McComb bv harrassment and intimidation ,;f Negrne,; by private individual,; and stu te utfiicals. Pottt•r and Ha~·den hat! gmw tu l\!rComb the day before to ob- serve events ansing out of the protest denwnstratian la:st \l'el'k by high S<'hool students 111 whi<·h 11:! were ane,;ted. 'i hes spent Tuesday, Ot't. I U, intet·viewi ng whites and :\'egrot•s trt t1·v to disrowt· if then• was dang~r o!' \'iolt•m·e, and to t!i:>eover· what tlw high school stud(•nt::; plamwd to do on more demonstratio.n~. .\lerely ObRe-rving On the day of llw beating, tlwy wt>re observing a <lemonstration of approximately 90 high school students who had walked <>ut of the high school rather than sign statemenh; that thev would not participate in futur~ demonstm- tiuns. They were told that their grades would he reduced bv ten per t'ent and that, if t.he~· t'l'- tumed to school the next da v they would be jailed for tres- pa~~i ng-. The students had march- ed to the l\lasunie Temple to dis- l'Uss their plans, and then began to mat·ch back to the high school to t>nlit->t mort> ,-turlents in thP walk-out. Arcording to Hayde-n, he and Putter drove along beside the marching students. Behind them was a police car, and behind that was a car filled with newspaper- men. Hayden ;;aid that just a~ then· car stopped for a red light, \I noticed that the police had turned off.\ Hayden went on to say that praetcially at the mament. he no- ticed the police wet·e no longer following them, for thP first time all day, a man ru~hl'd UfJ to the car and pulled open the door on the right hand side. St-veral Blows Struck Tlw man pulll'd !'otter· out uf :!:,· ·at ;tnd !regan to hit him. At'· ··nt·drn~ tn l'nttt>r, th<• m:m \ad- ·)·: n•..:.tpJ Pd 'lt'\'e1·al blows.\ and :.:t•wk··d hnn don\rl. lk• tlwn ran :t·,,und tlw cat·. ___ P~~Pd_~l_layd:•n fr<'lll his S(•at and \administered\ :·llWtllt'r IJ<'<lti ng to him. Both men ust>d thP }ll'inciple of non-violence, tlwy ~uid, and made no attempt to stl'ilw h:.wk. A f<•tl' 111 inutP~ latPr, aftPr their <Issailants had disappeared, the pt>ii<'P m-.rived. Potter and Hayden fill·d \ Doe\ complaints at the polic·e stution, and were tl1en \\''ortt•d ollt of town by the police \n th<•ir \\:U)' to Jackson. At tlw Jll'(•~s ('onference held Thursday. l'ntter commented on tlw \it·nnv\ \f the situation. He said that it \\'HS ironic that he ::nd Hayden should receive such gTl'at attention for a beating \of rPiatiYt•l:y minor .proportions\ while• N' t>gl'Oc's who risked their li\'l·~ in M,·Comh and elsewhere g'l't so l itt ll' attention. He went on to sa v. \Om· wounds will heal ... ntn· -\·ars are on the outside. but they must live\ with segre- g-ation all tlw t imP. Tlw two men asked for bettn cov<>re~gt• l>y the press of simila1· situat i .. n, thr-oughout the South. loyalty Evaluated Despite u protest from the Uni· veJ·sity of 1\!ichigan Student Gov- ernmL•nL Couneil, the chemistry th•partnwnt will continue to US(· non-acade111i(' evaluations for stu- d<•nts in elemPntary general ,.,ursp, this vear. Th<• em lu·~ttions include com- nwnts fru111 L hl' instructor on th<> st ud,.nt's pl'rsonal matters, emo- tional stubilitv, social responsibil- ity a11d lon:lltv to the United StatPs. · • Last spring;, the SGC passe<! a motion which opposed the use of thl' forms. f•rofcssor Leigh An· dPI'Flon, (' ha in1:1an of the chemistry dPpartment, ~aid that members of hi~ staff had re-examined the fnrms. but rould find no reason to dispense \l\ith them. The forms were initiated al>out a riPcadP a~o and supposedly sup- ply the kind of information sought by medical schools and govern- mental agencies to which stu- dents apply. \If we didn't have the fl>l'ms,\ Prof. Anderson said, \we wouldii't be able to writP rPronmlPndations frn· these stu- dents.\ Waiwrs will be granted to in- diYidual students only if they promi,;t• not to ask for characte1 rPfPI'PnrP~ f1·nm faculty meml>ers connretNl \Vith the eourses using tlw •'valuation forms. Angliean Bishop Dr·. l\'lenryn Stockwood has a new definition for a psychiatrist. H .. saitl in a London speech a psychiatrist is \a man who goes to the foli€s h~,rgere and 1ook~ at th .. aud1 ~enc·:·. By tlw \\·ay, dn you know whn wa~ the fi 1~t American to win ' the ~ .. h..J Peac·p Pri7.P ~ Theodnrp Roos£>\'P]t hecame thr iirst Amerium tu win the Nobel f',.arP Pr·;7<' 'n 1 !lOt,, 117 Mohawk Ave. SCOTIA, N. Y. THRU NEXT WEDNESDAY - New Polish Film ASHES AND DIAMONDS \Hauntingly Fascinating\-New York Times Show Time: 7:00 and 9:00 Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. large parties accomodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 RECORDS OF COMEDY - JAZZ - CLASSICAL- FOLK AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS Tapes and Diamond Needles. Professional Quality and Wholesale Prices APEX MUSIC KORNER State St. at Corner of Broadway Pllone FR 7-1112 Friday, Octo! Slide In By Die Slide Han personal·i ty in UtiJ.izing aH let of his emo cation of hi cuNed musical SLIDE Mar Ath~ Tur; (The follow its entirety fr of the Chicagr Od'in! Dva Hike! Football is l ments on c1 with the lack ' among the cat revolted and wing\ football Known pre \flying Bolsh will use thor tactics. Amon: thev will call siai1. Accordir campus politic to be identifi change tratli ti enclature. The respectively, a ist and rig! Center positio member vf tl Socialist Leag A backfield as a \change and huddles w \caucuses.\ \ known ag \<le' At a sent·! strategy, the Trotskyites wr the team oul y of ~nPak play>< The team w cipl:•, frulll u: T.:h: r:y !·!:.;·. plac\rl by the soleum\ pia) ''witht:ring a\t.·~ team's morale. Cheerleader·~ cheers.; lll~tl•a the opposite st the chePrleade ings and j/,'reet \:N\ev~-· rceru cout·aged,'' a group's spoke' have 25 gu~·s purge is in or The first of Societv meetin 7:30 PM on l\] in the Hah Lounge. Dean School will speaker. The Thomas Johns a question and follow the for dress. He we inquiries may ing law entran under-graduatE jects studied ir question conce may be asked The sustainin! society cordial ested student meeting. f''''''''' WAI PHARNI 511 s FR •

1961 held on He he such \of their here went heal outside, segre- e com- on the s, emo- United assed a use of An- emistry of the reason about sup- sought stu- 't have said,. write stu- to in- f they· using a goes looks who to win the Nobel :Friday; Odober 20 1 1'961 Slide Hampton To Play I In Memorial Chapel By Dick .Judelsohn , sources of C{)mposing and ar- Slide Hampton is a unique ranging, from the ethnic musical lit · h ld f · background of the American persona Y m t e wor 0 Jazz. Negro and even from the atonal Utilizing an octet for the out-, let of his emotions and exemplifi- and whole tone scale musical cation of his talents, he has ideas of the modem classicists. culled musical ideas from the re- 'What is heard from the eight men with his direction is a com- bination of some or even all of Maroon Athletes Turn Red (The following is reprinted in its entirety from the sports page of the Chicago Maroon.) Od'in! Dva! Tree! Chetir'e! Hike! Football is back! Dissident ele- ments on campus, dissatisfied with the lack of \good clean fun\ among the campus radicals, have revolted and organized a \left- wing\ football team. Known provisionally as tbe ·\flying Bolsheviks,\ the group will use thoroughly unorthodox tactics. Among other innovations, they will call the signals in Rus- sian. According to a well•known campus politician who asked not to be identified, they will also change traditional football nom- enclature. The ends wm be known, respectively, as left-wing extrem- ist and right-wing extremist. Center position will be held by a member of the Young Peoples' Socialist League (YPSL). A backfield shift will be known as a \change in the party line,\ and huddles will be referred to as \caucuses.\ Wingbacks will be known as \deviationists.\ At a secret meeting to plan strategy, the team decided that Trotskyites would be allowed on the team only for the execution of sneak plays. The team will refrain, on prin- ciple, from using the Statue of Liberty play. This will bl' re· placed by the \Lenin-Stalin mau- soleum\ play, involving the \withering awar\ of the opposing team's morale. Cheerleaders will not lead cheers,; instead they will picket the opposite stands. Uniforms for the cheerleaders are black stock- ings and green Harvard bags. \New recruits are being dis- couraged,\ according to the group's spokesman. \We already have 25 guys and the first big purge is in order.\ The first of this year's Pre-law Society meetings will convene at 7:30 PM on Monday, October 23, in the Hale House Student Lounge. Dean Lathy of Duke Law School will be the evening's speaker. The Society's President, Thomas Johnson, announced that a question and answer period will follow the forty-five minute ad- dress. He went on to say, that inquiries may be made concern- ing law entrance exams, preferred under-graduate curriculum, sub- jects studied in law school, or any question concerning law practice, may be asked during this time. T.he sustaining members of the society cordially ·invite all inter- ested students to attend the meeting. WALKER'S PHARMACY, INC. 511 State Street FR 4·7709 . these ideas. It is Slide Hamp- ton's knowledge of these vast fields that has enabled him to , create a l.lllique sound in jazz. Newcomer The name Slide Hampton is .comparatively new to Jazzophiles, except.tng t.tie very aware hlp- . sters. .tie first 'gamed prommence m the J,tlaynaru .l!'erguson IJand, at.ter playing with L10nel Hamp- ton (no relatlonJ and lJ1zzy ull- Lespie. CombllllDg a mus1cian~s · expenence datmg oack to the age u1_ three with tne dues he payeq with .H.amp and Diz, Slide took over first trombone cnair 11). .M.ay- nard's band in early 1957. He soon 'became the chief arranger tor the band~ and in the three years he spent with the Ferguson . oand contributed over fifty p~r cent of the charts. It was !or all th:r;ee of these talents.;..-musician- ship, arranging, composing-that Slide gained recognition with the jazz critics and public. He can be heard substantially on any of the Ferguson band's record- ings made prior to January, 1960. In early 1960 Slide formed his own group, the octet, and has led it since. The sound derived from the Sli~e Hampton Octet is to many a listener's ears more like that of sixteen musicians than of eight. Yet the ability to swing and the flexibility of a medium-size group is never lost. Most of the ar- ranging for the group is done by Slide, and he utilizes the concepts he practiced with the large-r Fer- guson aggregation. By including a tuba and a euphonium in the group, Slide has achieved a unique voicing of six horns (plus bass and dl:ums) ordinarily heard from a much larger band. The arrang- ing is basically along bop or modern lines, leaving ample room for solo space. However, one oc- casionally hears references to the swinging era, with Basie type riffs, and Lunceford choruses. Compositionally the S 1 i d e Hampton Octet performs a wide variety of styles. Ranging from Slide's own neo-bop, funky, soul- ful \Sister Salvation\ to \The Street Where You Live,\ nearly all forms of music are repre- sented. Slide has not failed either in performing compositions by other prominent jaz:z;men such as· Gigi Gryce and Randy Weston. Where the composition and ar- rangement are m u t u a II y de- pendent, one can hear Slide's utilization of classical as well as jazz forms. Unique again is this man's conception of all music. Reknowned Soloist It must not be overlooked that Slide is a trombone soloist of re- spectable stature. Virtually the only left-handed slide trombonist, he is rapidly coming to the fore- front of modem trombone play- ers He is endowned with a great ability to create and improvise and also skilled in the communi- cation of humor. Sharing solo honors with Slide are Tommy Tun-entine on trum.pet, George Coleman on tenor saxaphone, and Jay Cameron on baritone saxa- phone. The octet that will appear at Union College on October 28 con- sists of a trombone, two trumpets, one euphonium, two saxaphones, a bass, and drums. .From thes€ eight men emanates the sound of jazz, the expression of America's true art form. It is a swinging, exciting sound, unique in jazz to- day, and led by one of jazzdom's f o r e m o s t personalities, Slide Hampton. DISCOGRAPHY 1. Maynard Ferguson, A Mes- !\age from New p or t, Roulette R 52012. 2. Mayna1'd Ferguson, A Mes· sage from Birdland, Roulette R. 52027. 3. Slide Hampton, Sister Salva- tion, Atlantic 1339. 4. S I ide Hampton, Somethin' Sanctified, Atlantic 1362. ONE DAY SERVICE Campus Cleaners All Work Done on Premises PICKUP AND DELIVERY 527 Nolt St., Schenectady, N. Y. Opp. Union, College Phone EX: 3-5472 ~~' Fraternities: Union's Abortive Mother By Henry Steele T!te follo~ing is the first art~-[ group of men'! I can't believe know it. What we know is taint- de m a !!erie!S .by Mr. Steele. It IS· that. The answer seems to be in ed; it is an inadequate adjust- written !ln a high emo.tional key more q1,1estions: \Why is the ment for instead of brotherhood ex~oundmg on a subJect aoout voice of the student muffled?\ we have fraternalism. Instead of which Mr. St~ele feels very and \Why have his aims at an recognizing that we must go it strongly. The ed1to~ .of this paper education in a warm environment· alone with help only from the '!elcoll!-~S. any. positive o~ nega- been stifled?\ fact that there are others in the tlve criticism of Mr. Steeles argu- What · \th U · . same situation and that they are ~e t · t k' d\t\ · IS wrong WI mon Is .... n s m nex wee s e 1 Ion. that th· · f th 1 having the same troubles becom- , e vorce o e upper c ass student is weak, for he is smoth- ing real men, we grasp at a There have been many tirades ered h~ his filial ties. The society • pseud. This home is built from written on the lackings of Union at Umon presently necessitates craeked boards, Boards that creak College. Students condemn others . that the student act out the fa-. and say that we must sacrifice ot. apathy, and student organiza- bled Oedipus Complex for his our unity, that we must alter our hons are branded as ineffective. V?ice is overpowered by that of feeling of individualism and The college itself is called staid his mother-the fraternity. Wol'ld conquering just so this ultraconservative, and intellectu~ ~orne will stand. This home prom- ally cold. Liberal Arts students Family is Traditional 1ses. much for we have memories complain that there are many .too It is not an easy life at a col- of what a home should be, but it many engineers while the engi- lege, The American tradition is also takes much and gives little. neers laugh at the LA gut cours- a S<;JCiety of fV:milies, After grad- The inherent weaknesses in fra- es. Students complain that \Up- uatlo!l from high school, however, ternities have been raised and re- state Republicanism\ reigns at one 19 uprooted and placed in a hashed many times but the most Union. Our football team takes a situation that he will never again· striking weakness has been too bea~i~g not so much from the op- encounter. Naturally the stu- often neglected. We must be poSitJ.Q.n but much more fiercely dent will attempt to make up for proud of Union for it is our home from the student body. It is small: the lack of a family, He is alone. and we must adjust to it. Fta- wonder that the question at hand with a job and many new respon- ternities. though, divide the school to tJ:te parents who have received sibilities, and according to Reik's into groups, each having little in ~ miserable letter from their son eleventh commandment-he must common to unify campus spirit. Js: \What is wrong with Union?\. adjust. The adjustment must be We have a common goal-an edu- \Wha~ _is wrong with Union?\' made to the society into which cation. Together we can do it aslt VlSit,ors to the ca~pus. (for our newly arriving freshman is but divided there is something they don t know what Its like to thrust and one that will endure lacking. · live here). \Why it's a beautiful for four years. Unfortunately the 3 Skull's History The publication of an article in last week's issue of the \Con- cordy,\ involving a rent skull which was rediscovered in a sa:fie during the shift of operations from the old Nott Memorial Li- brary to the modern Schaffer Li- ln·ary, elicited a response from its donor, Mt·. Philip L. Thompsop. Thompson, a Union College alumnus and newspaperman, re- ,.e<.~led that the skull was unin- tention<.~lly uncovered on June 24 1902, during an excavation on hi~ property at North College and Front Streets. A long trench, whirh had apparently served as an unmat'ked common burial ground, was unearthed at a depth of seven feet. It contaiend eleven skeletons, including the bones of both white men and women and Indians, which probably date' back to the French ·and Indian massa- :t·e of Schenectady in 1690. These bones were laid out with the aid of a Union College pro- fessor of geology and the curator of the State Museum at Albany. Several pictures were made of the exhumed skeletons and one was recently given by Mr. Thom- son to the Union College Library. One skeleton, along with a copy of the somewhat funereal picture, was also presented to the Sche- nectady Historical Society which claims to have buried the corpses properly. sch~ol with all the tradition and warmth and help that the stu- Sunday evening at 8 PM in Old feelmg that one could ever de- dent needs is what is lacking at Chapel Professors Kilburn and mand, so why are you griping?\ Union. This is a .unity in academic Ferguson will discuss the tensions ask the dates of the freshmen. and social striving to which the between India and Pakistan. Mr. Do we know what's wrong with whole school contributes There Kilburn has :t:ecently returned p-ni?h? Certainly. It's disorgan- must be a warm feeling of ac- from a year in Pakistan, and Mr. !zatlon; an over balance of power complishment when \aU men are Ferguson is just back from a m the hands of the trustees; and, brothers under the ,Jaws of Min- summer in India. The two will of course, a lack of spirit because erva\ when 1000 students with .first sketch out the chief areas of our fo?otball tc;am is !os~g. Is it basi~ally the same problem of contlict between Pakistan and In- 1'60 LAFAYETTE ST. ~eally · Can disorgaruzation, over- building a future pull in the same dia, especially the contention over \Where Chapel meets Lafayette\ tmportant trustees, and a losing direction for a much more suit- who should have Kashmir, and FRankH n 2-0 501 football team, be the cause of able adaptation to the adult afterwards will give members of : ----• apathy and disillusionment on a world. There must be this feel- ·the audience a chance to ask ques-~· campus of a highly intelligent ing of brotherhood hut we don't tions and express opinions. THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES SALUTE CARL HORN make important forecasting decisions. Decisions that will bring advanced communications to the nati.on. Carl Hom of lllinois Bell Telephone Company, aad other young men like him in Bell Telephone Companies, help make your telephone and com- munications service the finest in the world. How many more people will need telephone service in Illinois by 1970? How many more tele- phone buildings should be built, how much more equipment ordered? Helping to find the right answers (because the wrong ones could he very ex- pensive) is the job of Carl Horn, a telephone com- pany economist who graduated from college just last year. His studies and estimates help n).anagement BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES 1

oth men attempt their the Hayden at tlten police held nted on ion. He that he such ti<ng \of their sew here went heal outside. segre- r better similar South. Uni- Gov- to USt· for stu- general com- on thP en1o- ponsi bil- United a use of An- of the reason about sup- sought govern- ell stu- have said, writP stu- to in- they using Menryn peech a goes looks who to win thP ~ohel Friday, 0 ctober 20, 1 961 Slide Hampton To Play In Memorial Chapel By Dick J udelsohn Slide Hampton is a unique personaLity in the worlcl of jazz. Utilizing an ectet for the out- let of his emotions and exemplifi- cation of his talents, he has cuRed musical ideas f.rom the re- SLIDE HAMPlON Maroon Athletes Turn Red (The following is reprinted in its entirety from the sports page of the Chicago Maroon.) Od'in! Dva! Tree! Chetir'e! Hike! Football is back! DissidPnt ele- ments on campus, dissatisfied with the lack of \good clean fun\ among the campus radicals, have revolted and organized a \left- wing\ football team. Known provisionally as the \flying Bolsheviks,\ the group will use tho1·oughl~· unorthodox tactics. Among other innovations, thev will call the signals in Rus- siail. According to a well-known campus politieian who asked not to be identified, they will also change traditional football nom- enclature. The ends will be known, respectively, as left-wing extrem- ist and right-wing extremist. Center position will be held by a member vf the Young People8' Socialist League ( YPSL). A backfield shift will be known as a \change in the party line,\ and huddles will be referred to as \caucuses.\ Wingbacks will be known as \deviationists.\ At a ,.;ent·L meeting to plan stmteg-y, the t .. am decided that Trotskyites would be allowed on the team only fut' the execution of ~n<'ak play~. The team will refn.1in, on prin- ciplt•, fr11lll us: 11g the StatUI' of L:IH'rfr I·!:.y. Thi' \''il! h<' rc plar<'rl by the \Lenin-Stalin mau- .::;oleum\ pia,-, inv\l\ing the \witlwring- away\ .,f lhl' oppo:<in~ team's morale. Che~rleader·,; will not lead cheers.; rn~tP;ul tht>~· wrll picket the opposite stands. I:nifrmns for the chet'rlenders are black stock- ing-s and g-reen Harvard bags. \~ew recruits are being dis- cout·aged,\ according to the group's spokesman. \We already have 25 gu~·s and the first big purge is in order.\ The first of this year's Pre-law Societv meetings 'dll convene at 7:30 Pl\1 un 1\[unday, October 2:!, in the Hale House Student Lounge. Dean Lathy of Duke Law School will he the evening's speaker. The Society's l're!::ident. Thomas Johnson, announeerl that a question and answer period will follow the forty-five minute ad- dress. He went on to say, that inquiries may be made concern- ing Jaw entrance exams, preferred under-graduate curriculum, sub- jects studied in law school, or any question concerning law practice, may be asked dul'ing this time. The sustaining members of the society cordially invite all inter- ested students to attend the meeting. WALKER'S PHARMACY, INC. 51 1 State Street FR 4-7709 eAA,A,64A,l,AA,6,.4,A.,1,444···· sources of composing and ar- ranging, from the ethnic musical background of the American Negro and even from the atonal m::Id whole tone scale musical ideas of the modern rlassicists. What is heard from the eight men with his direction is a com- bination of some or even all of these ideas. It is Slide Hamp- ton's knowledge of these vast fields that has enabled him to create a unique sound in jazz. ~ewcomer The name .Slide Hampton i::; comparatiVely new to Jazzophlles, excepting tile very aware hlp- :;ten;. lie fn·st gamed pronunence m the lVlaynaru b erguson nand, alter playmg With J...wnel Hamp- wn tno relatwn) and lJlzzy lrll- Lc::;ple. Gumi.Jinwg a mu.::;Jclan·s tlXperleucc uatmg uuck. to the age ul three Wlth th\3 uues he payed with Hamp and lJlz, .Sllde took uver fnst trombune cnatr m May- nard's band in early 1~57. He soon became the ch1ef arranger Lor the band, and in the three years he spent with the Ferguson oand contnbuted over fifty per cent of the charts. It was 1or all three of these talents-musician- ship, anauging, composing-that :Slide gained recognition with the jazz critics and public. He can oe heard substantially on any of the Ferguson band's record- ings made prior to January, 1960. ln early 1960 Slide formed his own group, the octet, and has led it since. The sound derived from the Slide Hampton Octet is to many a listener's ears more like that of sixteen musicians than of eight. Yet the ability to swing and the flexibility of a medium-size group is never lost. Most of the ar- ranging for the group is done by Slide, and he utilizes the concepts he practiced with the larger Fer- guson aggregation. By including a tuba and a euphonium in the group, Slide has achieved a unique voicing of six horns (plus bass and drums) ordinarily heard from a much larger band. The arrang- ing is basically along bop or mode1n lines, leaving ample room for solo space. However, one oc- casionally hears references to the swinging era, with Basie type riffs, and Lunceford choruses. Compositionally the S 1 ide Hampton Octet performs a wide variety of styles. Ranging from ~lide's own neo-bop, funky, soul- ful \Sister Salvation\ to \The Street Where You Live,\ nearly all forms of music are repre- sented. Slide has not failed either in performing compositions by other prominent jazzmen such as Ghd Gryce and Randy Weston. Where the composition and ar- rangement are mutua 11 y de- pendent, one can hear Slide's utilization of c>lassic>al as well as jazz forms. Fnique again is this man's conception of all music. Reknowned Soloist Jt m u~t nnt be overlooked that Slide is a trombone ~oloist of re- >'Pectable stature. Virtually the . n]j· lef.t-handed ,;]ide trombuni\l he is rapidly coming to the fore- front of modern trombone play- l'l'~ He is enduwneu with a great ahility to ereate and improvise and also skilled in the communi- ration of humor. Sharing solo honors with Slide are Tommy Turrentine on trumpet, George Coleman on tenor saxaphone, and .Jay Cameron on baritone saxa- phone. The octet that will appear at l'nion College on October 28 con- ~ists of a trombone, two trumpets, one euphonium, two saxaphones, a hm::s, and drums. From thes~ r·ight men emanates the sound of iazz, the expression of America's true art form. It is a swinging, exciting f::ound, unique in jazz to- day, and leri by one of .iazzdom', f o rem o s t personalities, Slide Hampton. DISCOGRAPHY 1. Maynard Ft>rguson, A Mes- !'lagP from :--1 e w p o r t, Roulette R 52012. 2. Maynard Ferguson, A Mes- sage from Birdland, Roulette R 52027. 3. Slide Hampton, Sister Salva- tion, Atlantic 1339. 4. S I i de Hampton, flomethin' Sanctified, Atlantic 1362. ONE DAY SERVICE Campus Cleaners All Work Done on Premises PICKUP AND DELIVERY 527 Noll St., Schenectady, N. Y. Opp. Union College Phone EX 3-5472 3 Fraternities: Skull's History Th., puhl:c:ati\n ,,f ar. article in Union's Abortive Mother By Henry Steele . la,;t 1\'<•<·k'..; i .;.,ur, ,,f t~e \Con- £'orcly,\ .n .. ·r,]\ in:.o; a rt·r•t skull wh,rh I\ a.' n·d1.·r·r,.,' ,,.r] in a ,.,afr\ 1 iUJ',IJ~ tLe ~h::~ (Jf r,,per-atiun:-; 'ft·JIIl t·i~~· \ld ~;,Jt~ .:\1ernrJrial Li- The following is the first arti-: gruup of men? I ean't believe know it. What we kri'JW 1 ~ tairtt- •·r;u:: • .. t!,.: ''· ,,J.·:r .. ~. hatf~;r Li- cle in a series by :1-Ir. Steele. It is that. The answer ,.;eems to be in eel; it is au inwleqU<tte arlJU>t-' ·.,.,,y, ·I··:. rl , , , !·'''·\ frrJin 1ts written on a hig-h emotional J,ey more questions; \Why is th<' rne11t fur in.,tead uf f,J,th•·rf~t•url i ·l··!•.\l' .. \1:. I'!. ·I' 1.. 'lr.••!:lJ»<J!l. expounding on a subject about: voieP of the student muffled.,, wr· have fraternuirs!JI. Irr,t<-ad of 1 I''\'' 1• •·•• I · .. \· c;.,]J,.ge which !Hr. Ht~ele feel;5 very, and \~'\'hy_ ha\'e his aims at [~Il. rerogniz~ng tltat w•· l!IU~t gu n . .r:·l'.rll.ll- :.:.d ,,, .,. l'\i\'rlllan, re· strongly. The ed1to~ .of tlus paper· edu•·atwn rna warm cm·rrorunent. alont· WJth ht·lp only IT<>JL tilt•. ·.,.,., •·d ''·\' :··.•· , •. '.\Jt.< unm- ~elcon:re.s. any positt,ve o~ nega-: been stifled?\ 1 fact that there an· other~ 111 tl.t· ., .. ,.\''\'i:-. •.r. ··•· •·11 •i , rr JurH, 2-1, tJve c;I~IC!Sm of Mr. 7~eel~~ argu-'1 What is wrong \.dth L'niun i~ '.am.c .sJtuatrun aJ.u that they are I:·Jr~. d·;: '~. ~~, ..,,.,· .• · .. ·:r' ••tl hi., men!:; m next weeks edJhon. that the vnif'e of the upper class I havu•g- the :mm'\ trouble.-, btcum- r•:·•l\''t: .. '·' :'\·''II ,' ·!.··ge and --- stta.lent is wt>ak, for he is smoth- 1 mg Jea} !nen, 11 '''. gra~p at a! l· \' 1 ' 1 .:-· ...... - • .\ ,,,. g trench, There have been many tirade~lercd by his filial ties. The socif'tviP\'Ud. flw; hr,m•· •\ I,udt frrm. ·'·\·'\ ,, ... !.q·_;· .. :··· ., .. ,,.r{ a.; written on the lackings of Union rat Union pre:<ently necessitate's; nad;l·d ],.,anls. B\ard.- tltat <Teak, •' Ll' '\'''····•! · ••ll.r .. ·•l: burml College. Students condemn others that the ~tudent ad out the fa-; <•nrl \ay that IH mu.-t >:.HTifi··•\ j ~·~ ,.,, :. ··'.'' '·' •· <1 ': •\I <•t ;, dr:J,th o.f apath~·, and student organiza- IJled Oedipus Cumpl••x for hi,.;t'!urunrty, that wenru.,t.alter uur 1 ·.! ·\\'<·!. :····. I:· ,.,,.·,,,.,,r] ~I<:·cen trans are bramlt>d us ineffective. \'oic:e .i,; u\·erpo\\'l'l'<·d by that of, ·f··•·l:ng of JTrrl;\H!:Jal:~m ar.d, - .. ··.· t .. · ·' ,. ·.r: :.~ ·: · '•'d<l'.' ,f The college it;,;elf is called staid, his mother-th•· fratemity. ~'''\rid \\ll'luer:n~ .JU:< ,., th:s i ',.,• 1 · 1 ' • · •• '':\\ .. : d . ·.· •n,r·r•. and ultraconserv<!tlve, and intellectu- •'· . . . . _ _ · h:•mrc wrll <-~and. flu;:; JHHJ,c pnJJu- 1 ! 11d ,,., -. :··· '' ,., r .. r· • '·· <· Ja:•· bar·k ally cold. L1beral Arts students I amii) IS Tracht10nal ! ~><<c, mudt fr,r we ha\·rc \···li<IJI'i\·s I ·• •:.·: I:,.: • '' :.:.d !: ·l '\' rua~~a- complain that there are many too It i.s nut an ea:.;y life at a col-. of what a hr.me ,;hould be, !.ut 1t 1 1•;_ ... ·'' '.•·: .... •: .. y :. l•::J'J. many engineers while the engi- lege. The American tnulition i.::;: al:<<> takl's much wrd gJv•·- l•ttl•. ! .. I' • •· • \'\' .,.,, ',. : ... ·! ·•.<t with neers laugh at the LA gut cours- a :.;uciety of fumilie::;, After grad-! The. mhPrurt ~> cukJII:<-.,l·.- l.l< fr<>-; !.•· a ' 1 .. : '' 1 .' ·'''· ~ · :•·gr· J•l'•J- es. Students complain that \L'p- uation from high ,;chuul, however : !('nlltH·~ h:.ne l.t·<cl! rai,;ed ar.d ,,._, •·-·•·: '':. :.-•···· :.::; :.:.•t ': .. • 'Jr;,tor sta!e Republicanism\ reigns at I one is uprooted and placed in ; 1 hashed Ill ally Lrnc~ t.ut tLc· 111 .,,-t i r •·I ,. >':.·.·· \L '·;::. :. ' A:!,;,ny. Um~n. Our football team takes a situation that. he wlil rwver again i 'triking weakm·,; h_ao; b··•·n t\\ i ;:· ·: • 1 ' ..... l• • · ~·' ··: . . · :·: ,. made <1f bea~1~g not so much from the op- encounter. ::-;aturally the stu-· often neglec:tt:d. \\ l' mu.-,t be 1 I•• ' · · .n.•·-: - r.•· ,. '''· · ,tJ,d rJnc posttl()n but much more .fiercely rleut will attempt to make up fort proud uf L'niun f~r it is our hul!,e l ·'·<•· r•··.~·r·.:: ~···· r. t.;.- ~1:. TLum- from the student body: It IS small the lack of a family. He is alone I and. we mu~t adjust tu it. Fra- ,,,,, t .. ;. .. l r .... ,, ' .. !.<·;.:·· L:brar:-·. wonder that the quest10n at hand with a job and many new respon- ternrtws though, drnde the ~cho.,l .' 1 .\'' ,,,, ..•. •. ''· ·•-:·r.e ·: .·.1 a cur•Y to t~e parPnts who have received sibilities, and accor-ding tu Reik's into groups, Pach having little in \~ 'l:t· :\''····.\': ~ ! ·~· • J•·al p:c:~ur•:, ~ m1serabl~ letter from their son eleventh commandment-he must ''\mmon to unify campus ;,pint .... ,.:.\ a:- .. I·''-· :.····1 .'\ :f.c· ~d.:e­ IS: \What IS VI'Tong with Union?\ adjust. The adju,.;tment must be We hm·e a cummun goal-an edu- · :c·r·':1<1:: II -· \' ·' \: .'•\ u:: wh:ch \Wha~ ,is wrong with 'L'nion?\ made to the society intu which catiun .. Together we can do it <a.r·:- ~ .. }.,,,,. I.uu·•! ti<l' c•Jrpses ask VISit,ors to the ca!llpus. (for our newly arriving freshman is I but . ch nded there i.s something they don t know what 1t s !Jke to thrust and one that will endure lackmg. live hereJ. \Why it's a .b~autiful for four years. 'L'nfortunately the, --------- seho.ol wrth all the trad1t10n and warmth and help thut the .::;tu-; Sunday l'Vcning at 8 1'.\I in Old. feelmg th~t one. c~uld eye: de,~ d;n_t need~ i:> what. is_ lacking ~t I Chapel Profe;,:,ors Kilburn and! mand, so why a1 e :J'DU gnpmg? Umon. Th1s 1s a _umty m academic i Ft·rg-u,.;on wrll drscuss the tension:; 1 ask the dates of the freshmen. and socral stnnng to whrch the bt>twecn Indra and Pakistan . .:\Jr. Do. w; kno:v ~what's ;wro!lg with whole school contr·ibut.es. There I Kilburn ha,.;. recer.rtly returned 1 ~m<_m ·. Ce1t~mly. Its d1sorgan- must .br a warm feelmg of ac- 1 frrnn a year Ill Pakistan, and .:\lr .. ~zat10n, an o>er balance of power compltshment when \all men are, Ft·rg-u.,\n is just back from a 1n the hands of the tr'l:ls~ees; and, brothers under the Jaws uf :1-Iin-, :.;umnwr in India. The two will of course, a lack o~ sp1r~t becau~e erv~,'' when 1000 students with 1 first skt·lch out the chief areas uf 160 LAFAyETTE ST. our football t~am IS .losmg. Is 1t bas1cally the same probl~m of, cunfl~t:t betweeu l'akistan and In- :eally? Can d1sorgamzation, over- building a future pull in the same Jia, e.speciallv the contention over· rmportant trustees, and a losing direction for a much more suit-. who :,hould 'have Ka:;hmir, allfl football team! .be _the cause of able adaptation to the adult afterwanb will give members of apathy and d1s1l!uswnn:ent ?n a I y.·orld. There must be this feel-; the audience a chance tu ask ques- campus of a h1ghly mtelhgent mg of brotherhood but we don't tions unrl express opinions. THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES SALUTE CARL HORN How many more people will need telephone service in Illinois by 1970? How many more tele- phone buildings should be built, how much more equipment ordered? Helping to find the right answers (because the wrong ones could be very ex- pensive) is the job of Carl Horn, a telephone com- pany economist who graduated from college just last year. His studies and estimates help management .~ ~ ...... ~ . . · ,--~ . ~:~(;~~~·~~:;. ~;~:;:;~~---: .. :· ~- \ ' t ' { \ '• ' ' \. \Where Chapel meets Lafayette\ FRanklin 2-0501 ·~--~------------------------ make important forecasting Jeci,-.ions. Del'i,..ion:- thut will bring advanced curmnunicutiun:- tu the nation. Carl Horn of Illinois Bell Telephom· Company, and other young men like him in Bell Telephone Companies, help make your telephone and cum· munication~ ,_en·ice the fine~t in the \\ur!J. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

4 Friddy, October 20, .19q.l ·~ ... , .. ,L, ., , ,e,, it, it .. e .. :~ .. i,o .... \i ... .. e .... E·~~·t· .0 .. ·~~ T'f .. i .. ~~ ~1f~~i~2~~1:J!f Thl• , .. ~!?~!~~ !:~r~ th•n\ '\ I t:P · · U., · I . · ten o'clock deadline, to mainta~n' been in the recent past. The Forum, which consists of the Young the contemporary high ac~dem1c Democratic and Young Republican Clubs, has held two well;attended standards J?OSesssed by Umon. ' meetings this year . .At the last one, this past Tuesday mg!lt, two To the Editor of the 1 an old arrangement for renting may impose a blanket prohibition D thts h ur f m ten to c· C - 1 D J h F. h f th D t Concord iensis.· · its assemblv hall to The National on rentals for concerts, plays and oes ·, 0 • _ro I · · .candidates for the lty ouncr • r. · o n ·Is er or e ~mocra s 1 • eleven ? clocJ- s1gmficant Y 11~-: .:and Robert Lynch for the Republicans, spoke to the gathe11ng. The Last evening, the Student, Review, a publication far off to a:ll other outside gatherings if crease. oper<;tmg expenses of.this following articles, written by the presidents of the Y.D.'s .an<;t Y.R.'_s, Council defeated a motion to send j the right. that is the only legal way to keep ,potentiaHy mvaluable educational 'a.re the first of a series Of \Battle Pages\ to appear perwd1cally lU a Jetter to· the Student Body of At Queens Co'llege, where the out the Buckley gl:lOup. asset? NO! Educational oppor- :the Coneordiensis. Queen's College in sympathy with audience would have been under- Little as we admire political tunities far .outweigh the insig- ------ their attempt ••to listen, to dis- graduates, the authorities have extremists of any sort, we hope· nifi~nt increase in expenditure., cuss and to make sound judg· shown too little faith in the good the Board of Higher Education surely part of the moneys to be ments\ based 011 what they would sense of their students. Freedom will make clear its dedication to received from the $150.00 tuition have heard. Apparently t~e Coun- to list~n, to disc~ss and to mruke the principle of freedom of ideas increase could be directed toward Y.R. 's Y.D. 's cil had neither the fores1ght nor sound JUdgments 1s the essence of by opening both colleges to opening Schaffer Library one. By Decker Adams By Lloyd Nuriek the fortitude to take such action. learning. It was in this spirit speakers of the radical le£t and more 'hour. Politics! For a few it is a busi-' With .member$ actively partici. ln lieu thereof, they passed a mo- that J?r. Bue~l G. Gallag~er, dur- the radical right, respectively. We demand our educational ness; for some it is a. hobby; for' pating in the local elections, t:l:l.e tion supporting the prindple of mg his presidency ::tt City Col- · dollar's worth! · many it is a void, something to· Young Democrats are experienc- the \Discussion Club\ mentioned lege, not only permitted a rank- To the Editor of·Concordiensis: · Barry L. Weinstein '64 be overlooked. The latter view is: ing a hitherto unknown turnout in the accompanying editorial ing Communist to speak on ~he Henry Schaffer contributed' -Bob Silverberg '64 wrong. Everyone should' be con- this year. In addition to the cam- without, however, allowing this eampus but publicly debated With about $500;000.00 to Union Col- Alan Bunin '64 ,cerned with politics. So much of· paign in Schenectady, the Y.D/s gesture to be expressed outside him. _ . . 1 · d th t •t t d t our life is influenced by .politic- • have a list of other plans. In con. these l ·,.y co\· .. 1 - .. d \\·all-. Utlter< The. recent o-t.o-4 dec1s10n of · ege 111 or er a 1 s s u en s · · · · h h p 1 . · al F ' ' ~ ~ h h could have an ultra-modern 1-i- The Student Faculty Conference iuns. We aU should do our part to: Junctwn Wlt t e o 1t1c orum, have J.JUbli<.:ally c.\.!Jlc~\\J a 'icw, t,\ :SuJo!rcwc Court. that . t e, brary in which academic endeav- wil'l take place October 29, at the· keep our political system active' a trip to Washington during the why not the Union College Stu- Commumst party must registe!• ors could be pursued to their ut- Canterbury House at 2 PM. The and responsible. The best way to, Spring Vacation and a mock po- dent Body? a~ an agency controlled by a for- t I 1· f th\ d agenda will be based on the Long. do this is to have an idea of how· l·itical convention are being con- '.'ean C I'ohrer '62 elgn power does not suppress the mos . n Ieu o lS an many d k \d h y D S \'temart. '~'ails , 62 party or strip it of its right to other kind contributions, it is . Range Planning and Development ,politics operates an to wor · for • Sl ered. T e oung emocrats \ \ speak. If the party leaders make alarming that Union students are Prograrn, as administered by the the election of those most quali-: themselves are thinking of send- themselves outlaws by calTYl·ng forced to l·eave the library at ten eleven task forces which pertain !fiEd to carry out our wishes. ing delegates to the state and The New York Times, Wednesday, October 18, 1961. ' ] k · th · h t\ student Jif.e. T'hese are the aims of the Young: national Y.D. convention. Last out their threat not to register o c oc m e everung, one our ~ FREEDOM A~D THE CITY COLLEGES the case will be different; but no earlier than in the old, archaic Among the to pies, which will • >Republican Club at Union. The· tut not least, meetings with the one has the J'ight to impose sane- Nott Memorial Library. be discussed by approximately· club ·offers a chance for those Young Democrats at Russell Sage Communists and conservatives are being barred from speaking at two of the city's public colleges under circumstances that impair their standing as citadels for the free exchange of ideas. Queens College has nullified an invitation by the student Marxist Discusison Club for a campus speech by Ben- jamin J. Davis, the Communist party's national Recretary. Hunter College has refused to continue tions in anticipation of such defi- A new study room within sixty students and administrative· Students interested in the Re- are being arranged. ance. Schaffer Library was built to officers, are the following: Hon- p~b~ican Party . to voice their .. The Young Democrats have At Hunter College the issue is provide facilities for an expected ors Program, Cultural and Aca- opm~ons, to lear;n about. ~he op- ~taken a large part in the ca(m- one of letting unpopular opinions maximum of thirty-one students. demic Program, Campus Develop- erat10n of practical polltlcs and paign for city and local officials reach the public, rather than stu- This was a gross and harmful ment, Student Financial Assist- •to tak'r part 'ill: the. election of, thus far. They have been run- dents. The college contends that misconception. Nightly since the ance, Student Life, Admissions, Republican·. candidates. ning Democratic party headquart- its reputation is damaged by per- opening of this semester, students Fraternities Reading Week, and Young Republicans have been ers in downtown Schenectady on mitting William F. Buckley Jr. have had to return to their rooms Public Relations. organized only since 1931 as a a four night a week basis. Those and his associates at The National or seek refuge in the General En- The committee hopes to obtain .pa.1t of the Republican .party. with more literary interests have Review to hire the assembly hall gineering Building, bewildered as' as many constructive ideas as' However, since the inception o:l' been working on various fliers for a series of symposiums. The to how most effective can be possible for the future improve-· the party there has always been that have been distributed and authorities feel strongly enough ;made of an hour best spent in ment and development of Union a group of young Republicans have also helped prepare an eight on this point to warn that they Schaffer Library. With over elev- College.. 1vho have been organized to do page insert to be published in a ENJOY GAMES LIKE 3·D TIC-TAC-TOE?, Then you'd like computer programming, the new career that makes full use of your logical talents. If you have a keen analytical and logical mind-and want to use it fully after college-then computer programming at IBM may be just the career you've always looked forward to. A computer programmer examines a business, indus- trial, or scientific problem and translates it into a special mathematical-logical language for the computer. Working at amazing speeds, the computer can produce answers in minutes, even seconds. Some of these answers might actually take days to produce by other methods. The problems are interesting and varied. IBM pro· grammars have used computers to predict hurricanes, tell days ahead where satellites will be in space, locate the best factory sites for businessmen, and aid highway engi- neers in laying out roads. No previous knowledge of computers is necessary; an intensive training course will equip you for your work. But you should have an analytical and logical turn of mind, and at least two years of college mathematics. In computer programming you will find that the salaries are excellent, and that the future can be virtually as un- limited as the future of the computer itself. There are ample opportunities for continued education. The IBM representative will interview on your campus. He will be glad to give you details about thiS fascinating new profession. Your placement office will make an ap- pointment. All qualified applicants will be considered for employment without regard to race, creed, color or na- tional origin. Or you may write, outlining briefly your background, to: Manager of Technical Recruitment, IBM Corp., Dept. 902, 590 Madison Avenue, New York 22, N.Y. You naturally have IBM. · a better chance to grow with a growth company. IBM will interview Nov. 20, Nov. 21. ® certain things. These groups local paper tomorrow. They have have always had one thing in both written and layed out arti- common - a desire to inject cles and editorials. In the clos- mergy and enthusiasm into the ing weeks of the campaign, the . Republican Party. This is still Y.D. activity should be stepped the main objective of Young Re- up even more. Any additional publican Clubs. campaign workers will be grate- Our programs this year will be fully accepted. held in conjunction with the The philosophy guiding the Young Democrats in the Political Young Democrats is basically the Fomm and as a separate Y.R. same as. that of the. National club. We will hear debates on Democratw Party, bemg based the Republican attitude of the upon the platform drawn up at first ten months of the Kennedy the Presidential convention and administration. We a-lso plfln to upon the actions and statements have at least one meeting wfth of th~ President .and. of the Dem- the Y.R. group at Skidmore or ocrat!C leadership m Congress. Green Mountain. Next semester ·The Y.D.'s also have some voice we are planning to make a study in J?akin~ the national De!Jlo- of MORE (Mobilization of Re- crat1c pohcy through resolutions publican Enterprise). This is a adopted at the state and national plan drawn up by the Republican· conventions. National Committee to train an To get more information on ex::tensive number of .political Young Dt>mocrats, call Lloyd workPr~. Othf'I\ meeting-s will he :\'urick at [)) fl-!l2l2 or Howard Of'VOtNl to Jparning rnnr.e about Daffnf'r at nr 6-0414. Remember, our Republif'an Party - its feel- now is the time for all good men ing on issues, its make up, and . to come to the aid of their Young its ideals. Also we hope to par- ·Democratic Party. take in a Young R,epublican legis- lative conference in Albany early will be held Monday, Oct. 23 at 4 next year. These are our plans p.m. in room 108 Bailey Hall. 'for the next year. Won't you join For more information contact us? Our organization meeting , Decker Adams at Sigma Phi. for the finest in custom clothing and furnishings Best Service in Town SCHUHL ESSO SERVICE 715 Nott St. Come in and Fill Up with the BEST GAS IN TOWN !4 I:. 44tl. St. • New Yor1.l1, N.Y. Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian • American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PI ZZ.A Free Parking Dl 6-9:554 1115 Barrett St. EXCLUSIVE .•• BU'1, NOT EXPENSIVE that's Featuring. Authentic Campus Selections of: Boot Necks Cru-Necks Hi-V's 164 JAY STREET Deep V's Cardigans \First With The Finest in Men's Wear\ Suggestion: Show Union Identification Card and Get Exclusive . 10% Off on All Merchandise. Friday,· Octol 1 Union ( eral years it ders baskec University. coached e: thrattled th who must h press clippi.J: throughout noon. They not playing Sparked by: Pete Burgwal Quarterback was virtually first thirty 1 means backed less second he effort was l despite the 1 Union drove, some mo1'e Rochester lin helpless befor sure of the Gamet defenc a bow for thE ment of the h jac]>et grounc The \devm of Rochester, failed to win likes of Norr ter, Bill Bo\ and the rest Union defeiJ 34 yards an< barrass ManiJ rushing sta ti Rochester r amounts to 6' better than tl Burgwal( Burgwald, the weekly I for his supe: was un&topp. openers ca.llc again oy Eall yards in 25 c1 even more h considers the soggy going He also ca.ug a total of 24 hance his shi Eales, who a little rougl Alfred, prove 1960 touch a1 17 pa.o;ses, ?;< conditions ha: ial activities. ful in handli wet pigskin, sition like a In addition t' calling, Eale mid-air fumb touchdown. Rochester 1 the outset of Eales recoveJ on the Y ellov Garnet line c in the Roche wald carriec caught a ten the Dutchmez yard line. Bt the score a.nci perfect extr: missed an e: tempt, but R to move the l territory via up the tally. Drive The Maras tained drives haS not been long time, m: score in the a 59 yard dr forced to re· do'wns on thE line. A wobb lowjackets' ~ the Dutrhme1 the Rocheste: t to blow thiE maneuvered the fashion general. A l Rudy Umsch< the 20, and again moved B11rgwald a Pike to the, was smother after a til with Coach quarterback middle pass Pike who lit the seore . .A for the two-r })feted the s and enabled t strut its stuf L: Norm Lave ECAC ni.enti eleven in the the Yellowjac passii\g and total. tlarter other fine ~ particularly Chick contir Rochester a< territory :;tnc yards in 1}ine ond to BuTg- (Continv

19~1 has Young two The Y.R.'s, in partici, the turnout cam- Y.D.~s In con- Forum, ring the po- con- of send- and Last the Sage have Ca(ln- officials run- on Those have fliers and eight in a have arti- clos- the stepped grate- the ally the based up at and Dem- voice Demo- on Lloyd men 23 at 4 Hall. contact Phi. p nt friday,· October 20 1 . 1-961 5 Garnet Defeats R~ochester 1 S-0 ,. Round-a-bout By J.im Strosberg Just before the opening kickoff 1 soccer start at 2 PM. Both the of the Homecoming Game last • Varsity and Freshman Cross- week, we had occasion to chat I Country meets commence at 2:1'5, with a student radio engineer and the Varsity Soc-cer begins at who was broadcasting the con- 4 PM. By David Thurston Union College football enjoyed its finest hot.1.r in sev- eral years late last Saturday afternoon as the Garnet grid- ders :basked in the glory .of a 15-0 win over Rochester University. The Joe Maras- •. test back to Rochester. He re- marked that there was absolutely no interest in the game what- . soever on the University of Roch- ester campus, and that the over·- whelming majority or the student body, confident that their team would win, was not bothering to make the trip to Schenectady to see a sure victory. The only un- . certainty was in the magnitude of the point spread. Satut·day's victol'Y over Roches- ter has br·ightened the hopes for this year's Garnet to be the first winning team since 1956, when Sam Hammerstrom's Gridrnen posted a 6-2 record. coached eleven completly B . ld Q throttled the cocky invaders .. urgwa .. n who must have been reading press clippings of yesteryear· E~C.A.C. Team throughout the rainy after- noon. They certainly were not playing football. To1111orrow's innsion of the home of \Uncle Sam\ should not pmve too diffioeult for the Dutch- men. Last year Union won the \Dutchman's Shoes\ Trophy 14-7, and most likely will keep it f1•om the 21l man s.hallow Engineers, who are untH now winless, hav- ing lost to St. Lawrence, 26-0, and Hamilton,. 22-10. Sparked by the hard-driving of Pete Burgwald and the fine::se of 1 Quarterback Dave Eales, Union I was virtually untouchable for the first thirty minutes and by no means backed down in the score- less second half. The overall team effort was a thing of beauty, qespite the gloomy weather, as Union drove, drove and drove· some mo1'e through the dazed ' Rochester line that was' entirely 1 helpless before the relentless pres- sure of the Union offense. The Garnet defenders must also• take a bow for their excellent contain- ment of the highly touted Yellow- jacl>et ground game. The \devastating\ M&M boys of Rochester, Marsh and Manning, failed to win the respect of the likes of Norm Lavery, Bob Car- ter, Bill Bowman, Chick Swain and the rest of the determined Union defense. Marsh gained· 34 yards and we will not em- barrass Manning by revealing his rushing statistics, but the total Rochester rushing y a r d a g e amounts to 60 feet, which sounds better than the pathetic 20 yards. Burgwald Named ECAC Burgwald, who was named to the weekly ECAC all-east team for his superlative performance, was unetoppable on the quick- openers called time and time again by Eales. Burgy gained 115 yards in 25 carries, a figure made even more impressive when one considers the handicap of the s(>ggy going of Alexander Field.· He also caught three passes for a total of 24 yards to fmther en- hance his shining performance. Eales, who had found the going a. little rough against Bates and Alfred, proved he has not lost his 1960 touch as he completed 1l of 17 paRses, good for D8 yardB, in conditions hardly suitable for aer- ial activities. Eales was master- ful in handling the treacherous, wet pigskin, operating at his po- sition like a top-flig:ht matador. In addition to his precise signal- calling, Eales also snatched a mid-air fumble to set up a Garnet touchdown. Rochester met with disaster at the outset of the encounter when Eales recovered a Marsh fumble on the Yellowjacket 19. With the Garnet line opening gaping holes in the Rochester defense, Burg- wald carried four times and caught a ten yard pass, putting the Dutchmen on the visitors' one yard line. Burgwald plunged for the score and Tom Pike booted a perfect extra point. Pike had missed an earlier field goal at- tempt, but Rochester was unable to move the ball out of their own territory via the fumble, s-etting up the tally. Drives SustainPd The Marasmen, putting on sus- tained drives, the likes of which has not been seen at Union in a long time, marched for the second score in the second stanza. After a 59 yard drive, the Garnet were forced to relinquish the ball on do\vns on the Rochester one yard line. A wobbly punt by the Yel- lowjackets' Vince. Caravaglio; put the Dutchmen hnc'k: in business on the Rochester 39. Determined not to blow this opportunity, Eales maneuvered his combattants in the fashion of a military field general. A 16-yard pass to End Rudy Umscheid moved the ball to the 20, and the Union line once again moved forward in front of B11rgwald and Wingback Tom Pike to the Y ellowjacket 8. Eales WIJ.S smothered on a keeper, but after a time-out consultation w'ith Coach Maras, the flashy quarterback fired an over-the- middle pass to a solitary Tom Pike who literally danced in for the score. A pass to Umscheid foi.' the two-point conversion com- pleted the scoring for the day and enabled the· Garnet defense to strut its stuff in the second half. Lavery Led is Soccer Coach Carl Witzel giving the team The Garnet faces RPI .tomonow in 'l'·rcy. · This exchange of pleasantries brought to mind a certain quote I from The University of Roch- Bob R,idings, No~ 1 Fan a ester's Campus Times of October 13, 1·959, which was republished in the October 30, 1959 issue of the Concordiensis. \Union was more pitiful than pre-game selec- tors could imagine. Game reports and a f t e r-g a m e conversations with our boys gave one the idea that perhaps Union ought to find . Booters Lose To Rochester The Garnet soccer squad faces smne other fall sport until real Colgate today in a horne game players show up on the Schenec- By Robert Sherwin starting at 3:30 PM. Last year tady campus.\ (Rochester de- Whenever a Union College team ·Colgate won the contest 8-1. feated Union that year 62-8). Union might sbetch its imag- inary winning streak by just a little more wishful thinking. When the Garnet returns home on October 28, the opposition will be Hobart, wlrich is also winless. The Statesmen have dropped games to Ithaca, 19-10; Roches- ter, 27-6; and Hamilton, 12\6. takes the field in quest of vic- J Union will be looking for its fi . t · · f th · t d After the game was over, we In preparation for the annual * tory there is one man who never rs wm 0 e season °· ay, . couldn't f\nd 1 our fri'end· from h ' b D t h t haVl·ng lost to Oneonta MI'ddle· rivalry· ag·ainst RPI tomorrow ,t e ceases to e a · u c man roo er. · • - Rochester. We think he was hid- de is neither a student nor coach, bury, Hamilton, and Roch,es~er. ing in the. mud. Booster Committee of Student b1.1t a man who knows each ath- In the most recent contest, agamst Council will hold a pep rally to- Jete through personal contact. His Rochester on W~nesday,. the The Union College Bowling night at 7:30 PM behind Rich- name is Bob Ridings, the equip- Garnet lost 3-1, WJth Ed Lrpton mond Hall. All students at•e en- Inent man. scoring the. only· Union goal. The Team turned in its 'best perform- couraged to attend. Coach Maras ance of the season last Monday, 'II b h 1 · h h U Bob as 1 ve call him, loves his' freshman team was mQre success- w1 e t ere, a ong wit t e n- w:ork a ' nd probably this is why he ful, however, winning 2-1. defeating Sienna College 4 - 0 · ion Co lege Football Band. The Three points were awarded for · · h 1 b t' · d'l rrunerates sp 1 · 11 • ·t 'to the team mem- Tomorrow both the Freshman musiCians ar een prac Icmg 1 • ·PETE BURGWALD ,.,~ the three games, and a fourth · tl f th H · Junior Halfback Pete Burgwald be1·s. When the ·Garnet are in the and Varsity team travel to Troy Igen Y or e omecommg P oint for the highest total point G b t bl t was named to the first team of winning column, they include Bob to play RPI. arne, u were una e o per- score. Tom Hogle was high man f b f th · Th the weekly Eastern Collegiate as a membel· of the winning team. ~-----~-- , orm ecau!'e o e ram. e for the Gamet, with a 245 single b h k -> 1 Athletic Committee college team d1e athletic department forms a The owners of a new 22-story and 623 ·series. oys aw wor Pu up s£>vera: new for his fine performance against kind of commuruty within the col- building in Los Angeles with no tunes, including \St. Louis B)ues,\ Rochester here last Saturday. lege, and Bob is an integral mem- 13th floor will hold. dedication * * * * \12th Street Rag,\ and \Missis- Burgwald was selected on the ber. ceremonies today. · Tomorrow, the Garnet will send sippi Mud.\ Tne band will be at basis of press box poll's after .For more than twelve years, It takes place on Friday the I five teams against RPI. The Var- its hest tonight anrl tomorrow, last weekend's games. Bob has been an employee of 13th. sity Football game and Freshman espe>rially the tuha_p~ayers. __ _ The hard-charging back from Union College, and the last six ----------------'---..,..-.o::....--------'-~ St. Paul, Minn., gathered 115 were spent with the athletic staff. yards in 25 carries and snared Bob's ·interest in sports, however, three passes good for 24 yards, stems from his high school days, · to pace the Garnet to its first win when he won ·varsity letters in of the season, 15-0. The 5-11, 180- basketball, baseball, and soccer. pounder excelled at the off-tackle The interest Bob has for his dive play, single-handedly caus- job does not stem from his duties · ing the Rochester coach to shift as an equipment man, but from his defensive alignments through- his opportunity to have personal out the conte~t. , ~U!IfY also contact with. boys. He is able to plunged for Umon s mrt1al tally observe an inexperienced college and ran good decoy patterns, help- buy develop into a college man mg Quarterback . Dave .Eales to 1 over the course of four years. Bob lack up .98 yards :n !!u~,;mg yard· 1 run tends that intercollegiate com· age. HI~ b·~,;t llal!nJual run> IJelition builds the character. The were scampers of 16, 15 1 and 14 athlete lealns to \give it all he's yards. . gqt'' and to take defeat. Also nommated for the all-east Vvnen asked if he got dis- squad was Co-Captam ~nd No:;-m couraged dlll'ing one of Union's I:avery who was credited wtth losing spells Bob replied that he eight tackles and allow~d onl.Y \loves to root for the underdog, four yards net through his tern- and of comse, Union is the under- ~orr. George Th.ompson was Un- Jog nine out of ten times.\ Ions last !'electron as the grad- 1 Reflecting upon this year's uated tackle reaped honors last I football team, Bob thinks that the year. squad has the desire of cham- Harriers Lose; Prepare For R.P.L. Meet The Union College Cross-Coun- try team \;11 be trying for its 1 fin;t win of the season tumor-, row, when it travels to Troy to face the R!'l Bachelors. 1 The Distance Men are presently 0-2, having lost to the University of Massachusetts and University of Vermont. In last Friday's meet ;~gainst the Green Mountain Boys, Union was completely shut-out, although some signs of improve-! ment were shown by the Garnet. 1 ,Poug Allen turned in hi~ best time of the year, and Wayne Lav- i ~:l'ty, cripplt-J h); a cu],J, managed to lead the Garnet runners once again. Tomorrow's meet against RPI will present the Garnet with the best chance of the season to emerge victorious. RPI faired equally well against Vermont. If Union is going to win tomorrow, the entire team will have to make a joint effort. Not only must the front runners maintain their usual positions in crossing the finish line, but the back men must alsq moye up a position or two. If each of the Gamet runners gives that all important extra effort, the net result could be a Union victory over RPI tomorrow. pions, but that it is up to the student body to keep our team's spirit high. If the men of Union attended the games as a front of fraternities and not as individuals, the flag of victory would wave often over the Union Plan now for your BERMUDA Coll~ege Week 1962 bigger, busier, better than ever! • Informal welcoming dance to start the fun. • College Day at the Beach .•. the biggest beach party of the year. e All-day eruise to historic St. George. LWlcbeon 1 CalypSQ.JDtisic, Gombey Dancers. • Round Robin Tennis Tournament. • College Week Golf Competition. • College Tale11t Revue. • Fun Festival with jazz concerts, choral groups, dance contests. • Barbecue Luncheon. • Sightseeing. • Special Golf and Tennis Trophies. AJ..;L YOUES AT NO CHARGE The BERMUDA Tra~e Development Board 620 Fifth A.vo •• New York 20, N.Y •. san remo coffee house You: had a one man conference about your future 0 Iatezy-[ Why the gold bars? · Future You: You're needed ... just as your father and grandfather were. It's an obligation that a lot of quali£ed college men have to meet. If we don't. •• You: All right. But what can I do for the Air Force? .Future You: The Air Force needs college trained men and women as officers. This is caused by the rapidly advancing technology that goes with hypersonic air and 5pace flight. Your four years of college have equipped you to handle complex jobs. Vou: Say I was interested ... how can I get to be an officer? Future You: You know about Air Force ROTC and the Air Force Academy. Then there's the navigator training pro- gram.You've probably h{'!ard about Officer Trai.r~ing School. .. where the Air Force takes certain college graduates, both men and women, and commhoions them after three months of training. You: Starting salary is important. What about that? Future You: Add it up. Base pay, tax-free allowances, free metli· cal and dental care, retirement provision, perhaps flight pay. You don't have to be an eco major to see it adds up to an attractive package. You: I've been thinking about getting my M!Lster's. Future You: As an officer you can apply for the Air F()rce Institute of Technology, At no cost, and while 011 active duty some officers may even win their Ph.D. degrees. You: Tell me more. N orbJ. Lavery, who also received ECAC mention, led the fired up eleven in the second half, holding the Yellowjackets to only 37 yards passing and a 57 yard over-all total. CJarter also turned in an- other fine game as did Swain, pa1ticularly in . the first half. · Chick continually helped crush Roch,ester advances through his territory :;tnd also picked up 31 yards in nine carrles to :finish sec- ond to Burgwald in Union I'ush- featuring thursddy thru saturday mo II y scott jazz concert -sunday 7 p.m. - ? 314 front st. di 6-98·04-.-ex 3-3041 That's the job of your local Air Force Recruiter, Or write to Officer C::areer Information, Dept. SC::llO, Box 7608, Washington 4· 1 D.C., if you want further information about the navigator training or Oflice1· Training School programs. There's a place for professional achievement in the U.S.Air Force (Continued on Page 6)

6 F~iday, October 20, 1961 Integration Progresses Football. • • Long Range Planning • .... {Continued from Page 5) (Continued from Page 2) u!ty salaries. About fifty percent PIJofessor Way :remarked, when Across the land, schools are open- 1 effect. The three are Alabama, ing. Big Bill Bowman looked ex:~ The comtn.ittee J:peets once a of the tuition goes to this. Ad-. asked where the money for fac- Ing for the eighth time since the Mississippi and South Carolina. cel!ent in thwarting Rochester at- wee)r. At the first meeting, held ding to this the fringe benefit!>,: ult:y l'esource increases could be Supreme Court declared compul- In Alabama, none of the state's tempts around his end and looks on Sept. 13, an examination was the figure is elevated to over raised, \Our job is to see what sory segregation in public schools 114 school districts, ·all of them like the most improved player on. made of the McGrath Repo1t, a $1,000,000. If the faculty salaries we can do for , 0 ur faculty ... not unconstitutional. Probably no bi-mcial, had been ordered to de- the Garnet squad. Bob Lebel and· stu~y of, thirteen small colleges we1·e to be· doubled in the next:. to get the money.\ other domestic issue has stirred segregate or had indicated any Pat Fantauzzi also drew praise, VV~Ich pomts out that faculty sal- .ten years, the total amount need-. When students were asked if as much interest and debate with- intention of desegregating volun- for their alternate work .at tackle aues are dependent on the nwn- ed would be just over $1,600;000. they would rather have a top- in and without the United States, ta1'ily. Apprmdmately a. third of w.ith ·Chuck Hanle. ;ber of small classes that .a pro- On the basis of 1000 students at:· flight faculty and large >Classes or and the issue is as alive today as the students in Alabama are Union's domination can be: fess.?r. teaches. T~e .Task Force, Union College, the tuition would' a larger faculty and smaller it ever was. What, then, has been · Negre. . h · h · · · h' h , ; ,real1zmg tl\at th1s IS only Qne have to be increased to .$2, 750' classes, t)1ey replied almost unan- the progress of desegregation to· In court action, however, S1X s olnhxn t e st~tistJcs 'Y 1 ~. l!l'-!.small .aspect, has decided that each year, This, of course is a: imously for thE! former. The :fol- date ?. students expelled last year from v,ea t e Garnets super;~ol'lty m, prQductiVit:y is an excellent rneas- ridicul<msly high figure. Tuition· low·ing are .some ·of the answers·. d k fust downs, 13-4; rushmg, 163- . d f E. · · Only three of the 17 states an Alabama State College for ta - 20 . passing 9 g_ 37 and fumbles' ure of a goo ,Pro essor. ven is by no means the only source of :·'Top-flight professors are a nee- the District of Colu~bia. whi~h ing part in. a sit-in w:on their bat- lodt 1 4 ' ' · : here there are dtscrepenctes. How income for the college. Besides·; essity in any sehool ... Through had complete segregation m 19u4 tie for remstatement. The U.S. ' - · . does one define productivity? It tuition, money is accrued from large classes the stimulation can still have it today. In the othersl Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals· in R~P.I. Winless : iJl most ,probably a combination the interest on the endowment, :still be there, but if the professor 810 school districts ~ave de~egre- New: Orleans ruled. that their ex• · The main problem at lland : of; teaching load (number ~f gifts from alumni a;nd friends of. is weak, so the student will be.\ gated their schools ln prachce or pulsiOn had been lllegal ~ecause however, is R.P.I., winless ove;: elas~es taught.), student Cl 1 e~l: the college, and gifts from pri- \Although large classes may lim- in principle. The number o~ Negro the ~ue. process .clause .m the the last two years. The Garilet· hour~ (small or _large classes)., ~n v.ate organizations and :f!ounda- 'it discussion, a professor who 6an students hi school with whtt~ stu- ConstitutiOn \r;equ1res not~ce and was definitely up for the Roches- tangtbles (g.ettmg. the material t10ns. The endowment earns. g-ive a fascinating lecture will dents will not be known tmttl el;J- some .opportumty for hearmg be-. ·ter contest and Coach Maras ac.ross), .spec1al a~s1g!Jments. con- about 4% interest from common .stimulate interest in the subject rollments are tabulated later m fore students of a tax-supl!orted hopes his charges can keep their: tr1b!It10ns to publicatiOns! student stock manipulations, bonds, and . which will lead to pursuance of the semester. . rolie~e are expelled for mtscon- • fine edge for tomorrow's game at· a~vtsement and commun1ty rela- some mortgages. ·knowledge by the students ... \ O-pening day was comparatively duct. Tvoy. There is . a distinct poss- tlOns. · quiet this year, ~s indicl!ted by In .Missis~ippi, only o~e deseg- ibi!ity of a letdown because ·of Most . students, when asked the calm with whJCh the ftrst de- regat10n su1t has been filed, and R.P.I.'s unimpressive record .to' what makes a good professo~, an- segregation in Georgia proceeded it is ·still pending. The suit is by date. :Qespite several key injuries,' sw~red that he should be Inter- in Atlanta's schools. There ·were a married Negro veteran who the Engineers played well in bQth' estlng, th!lt he sh?ul~ be a~?le to a few incidents and a few arrests, seeks to transfer from a state-. their losses, particularly in the pre.sent h1s matenal m an Inter- but the community generally, o'-l.:ned Negro college to a state- first half when they have yet to· estmg manner, and that he should which had carefully prepared for owned white ~iversity. . allow a point. First ·string quar- make the ;Student wa~t to learn. the historic change, accepted the South Carolma has two mte- terback, Frank VanRennselaer is ??he followmg rs a t~p!Cal answe~. change without excitement. T~e grated schools, both run by t~e eX'pected to be ready for duty A good p~ofe~sor 1s one who, Is change leaves only Memph1s, Federal Government. One, m after an ankle injury, a definite an expert In hts -field !J-nd an m- Tennessee of the ten largest cit- Beaufort County, has recently -boost to t)le R.P.I. offense. The: tErestmg lecturer. He 1s one who ies in th~ South, with complete been transferred to the U.S. N~vy depth chart of the Engineers is. stunulates rather than depresses segregation. to serve personnel at t~e Manne scanty however and should nat. tlte student.'' DI,(\MANTE'S Enjoy our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food 1in Our Comfortable Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOTT Sf. · c t Air Station; the other 1s on the be abfe to sustain the steadily- · It has been pointed out that Battles Centered m our Parris Island Marine Bal;e. No improving Dutchmen. Union hi)-S go.od profess~rs c.an only be re- This year, the major interest state-run schools contemplate any shown great improveme~t _ m tamed ~t Umon if. they are of- was centered on court battles. deseg1'egation yet. Fiv~ ~egroes every performance, begmmng fe~ed h1gher salar1es .and more Two important court decisions in- in Charleston are contmumg ef- with the Ithaca pre-season scrim- .frmge benefits than at other dicated that legal efforts to stave forts to transfer· to white schools, mage, and is a safe bet to return s<:hools. At present there are ap- off integration might be losing but no ruling is expected from from Troy with a two-touchdown proximately one hundred faculty their effectiveness. They are: the county school board until win hanging from their belts in members. The average salary is OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M. - SUNDAYS 5 P .M.-3 A.M. Patronize Our Advertisers In Richmond, Va., Federal Dist- after schools have opened. addition to a .500 season percen-· about $8,000, On this basis $800,- rict Judge Oren R. Lewis rul.ed =a~g..:e·:.· ---~--------__:O~O_O_is__:n_e_ed_e_d___:e_a_ch___:y~e.:.a_:__r_f.:.or___:f:.:a..:c_- ____________________________ _ that tuition grants and tax credtts S c cannot be used to support a coun- ., • • • • ty's private segregated schools as long as' the public schoo!s there are closed. Judge LeWis ruled that tuition grants were originally intended to offer stu- dents a free choice between pub- lic and private sehools, but t~at there is no fl'eedom of chmce since there are no public schools. A. few days later, a three- judge Federal Court sitting in New Orleans, La., ruled unc?n- stitutional a legislative act which would have permitted local school boards to close their schools rath- er than desegregate. The judges did n?t rule, ho'Y- ever, on the quest10n pose? In their unusual request for friend- of-the-court briefs from the 50 state attorney generals. This is the question of whether or not states are required by the 14th Amendment to maintain a public school system. Whatever the courts may have ruled elsewhere. in three states complete segregation is still in Clothes in the College Manner 1 O<ro off To Students HATS ClOTHING FURNISHINGS Men's Shop 514 State St. Store hours: Mon. thru Sat. 9:30 to S P.M. Thurs. 10 A.M. to 9 P.M. (Continued from Page 1) Theodore R. Macllwaine, the Business Manager of Union Col- lege, that plans to build a walk from the new fraternity houses in the northeast corner of the campus to the bridge by the M~­ morial Field House at an esti- mated cost of $1600 would be carried out as soon as funds are available. A motion to write a letter to ~1:acilwaine requesting the .Nott Memorial Library to be ht at night was passed. A council mem- ber suggested that the coke sign be removed from Dewey Hall, and another recommended that the campus map on Old Chapel be brought up to date. Steve Spencer reporting for the Lectures and Concerts Commit- tee stated that Amherst spends $16,000 compared to Union's $750 for speakers and concerts at their school. He revealed that such names as Huntley and Brinkley, Victor Borge, Al Kapp and Walt Kelly were mentioned as future guests at a recent plan- ning meeting. Ed Shapiro criticized the wide split council decisions and called for unanimity in their votes. Steve Spencer felt that more thought and discussion would pro- voke agreement on proposals. Council President, Norm Lavery, summed up the issue by saying, \We are all in favor of progress . . . but we must not jump int,? things.\ He encouraged council representatives to read the Stu- dent Council Bulletin Board in front of Bailey Hall. Rllynwnd Gilmartin, reporting for the special Library Commit- tee, said that Miss Evans of the library staff recommended that the council wait two more weeks until the new iO PM library clos- ing deadline is tried, then rec- ommendations could be made to the head librarian, Helmer Webb. L. C. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS • FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS • TROPHIES Write or Call Fraternity Jewelers 171 Marshall St., Syracuse, N. Y. Phone GRanite 5•7837 Don't wait till you need money Visit the folks often by long Distance-just for the thrill it will give them. Phoning is more economical than writing. Sa:ves your scrawls and your parents' eyesight. NOTHING SAYS IT LIKE YOUR VOICE PLANNED TRAINING PROGRAMS to start your career offered by Public Service Electric and Gas Company •.. 3rd in revenues among investor-owned electric and gasf utilities r-------------------------------~ See our representative when he visits your college on DECEMBER 11 -------------------------------~ You may obtain a c:opy of cur brochure ''Training Courses for College Graduates\ at your placement offic:e or by writing to Public Service, Room 2152a, 80 Park Place,. Newark 1, New Jersey. Here is the Training Sch.edule for Electric Cadet Engineers COLLEGE TRAINING REQUIRED Degree in electrical, mechanical, or industrial engineering cotJrses. TflAINING TIME SCHEDULE !~WEEKS Testing Laboratory .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. • .. .. . 4 Electric Generation Department Performance Department ................. , 6 Boiler Operation • . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Boiler Maintenance . .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 3 Electrical Operation . .. . .. .. • .. .. .. . .. • .. . . 3 Electrical Maintenance . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • • . . . 3 Turbine Operation .. . .. .. .. . • .. . .. . .. . .. . . . 3 Mechanical Maintenance . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . • • . . 3 Yard .................................... 1 Office and Storeroom .... , . .. . .. . .. . .. .. .. .. 1 Inspection of Company Generating Stations.. . . 1 General Office . . • . . . • . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . • • • . . 1 28 Electric Distribution Department line Deparbnent .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .. . .. . . . 5 Meter Deparbnent .. .. .. .. .. • .. . .. . .. .. .. .. 1 Service Engineer .. . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . .. . • . .. .. 2 Substation Operation and Maintenance. . . . • . . . 4 Distribution Engineering .. . . . .. . .. .. . • • • . .. 4 Service Dispatcher and Troubleman. . . . . • • • . . . 2 Offiae and Storeroom ...................... ; 1 General Office Transmission and Distribution Engineer (Transmission, Distribution, Substation) •. , • 3 Electric System Plan11ing and Development Department •......... Distribution Department, and System Planning and Development Department Selected Assignments 22 (either or both departments). . • . • • . . •.• • . • • 4 General Office Lectures (both departments)... . . I Commercial Operations Department Commercial Operations Department Course-G.O. Customers Service Department, Sales Engineer -Industrial and Commercial- Architect Builder and Dealer- Heating and Air Condi· tioning Representatives . . . . • . . • • • • . . •.• . . . . 2 Electric Engineering Department M.E.'s E.E.'s Mechanical Engineering Division. . . . 5 Electrical Engineering Division .. ,... 4 Structural Engineering Division. . . • . • 2 · Construction Division •.• , ••.•• , . . • 2 ...,.. 4 5 2 2 -13 .vacation • . . . . . . • . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . • • 2 Unscheduled (Miscellaneous Assignments) .• , . . • • 4 Total ........................................ 82 ( FA.I SHE :Pa Vol. 91 ,. No. Bio.~ Di1 Is By AIJ The first ology semi Tuesday ru James Bark; Laboratol;'ie: the particip: ticals 0f thE Innovated h Dinners are tl Leonard B. I the Biology D at these fun< there was toe ing between t to science, as pus, and thE proaches dev1 These dinnen bridge that .g dents are us1 with an -equa sol'S, scientist the area. E signed a prof with whom h1 The meeting Biology buH< the scientists est resea1·ch. Mr. Barlo1 speaker, has bacteriophage ers\ for the \phage he E like partical ent bacteria within the ba ly released b: the then deac basically corr units, an 01 termed \the ternal nuclei DNA. When contact witli ghost attach acting very dermic neee< tents of nucl1 terium. The takes over co ism of the b: it to produce the phage's ' production. Sub-FJ Inte n: By R The ·interv ·no part in freshman to cording to J Director .of CoiJege. H~ system as 1 today an \' ing,\ adding itself has li final accept: a candidate. Since it is judge somem and there i pos:;ibi!ity t nervous, the discount the tern is a sc missions. \Interview ious of the and showy t; tyPe as acto1 up to be m ~ue,\ he sai Pearson al occasions in1 to qe very cited was of port a few the examine ticed ·sometl about a ca: This applic: school and knifed his f: the night. However • examples m is almost a: uninterestinl the interviE himself to questions ti \In the fina \the final j a candidate ord not thE becoming a today's adm

1961 when fac- be what ... not if a top- or smaller unan- fol- a nec- can be.'' lim- can re will subject of \ ( FA.L.LO·UT SHELTERS :Page 3 Vol. 91,. No. 4 Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., OCTOBER 27, 1961 BASKETBALL P:R'EVIEW Page 4 PRICE 15 CENTS Bio.logy D • I tnner ·Fraternity Situation· Explored By 1 168th Year 1 Jazz Gig P~?fessors Stone, Fox And The I.F.C. Celebrated To Rock IFC PDU:nn~e,...'S , , ]Jy Philos In Chapel Is Held By Alfred Soinmet· \ 611• • • By Stephen Wolfe By Martin Jay The first of this year's bi- ology seminars was held Tuesday night at 6 PM. James Barl0w from the State Laboratories later addressed the partiCipants on \Subpar- ticals Gf the Bacteriophage.\ By Larry Horowitz The Interfraternity Coun.- cil passed a resolution es- tablishing a plan to invite facu1ty members and their The Philomatheans, who The Union College com- last week celebrated the munity will be treated to a 168th anniversary of the variety of activities this , founding of their debate so- weekend. Among them are a ciety, commenced the 1961- 11ome football game with Ho- 1962 season with ~our~a- oart College, a jazz concert ments at Brown Uruvers1ty .. eaturing the Slide Hampton and Dartmouth Coll~ge last Jctet, and a Lutheran Re- weekend. The vars1ty de- ~ormation Day.Rally for stu- haters, c9ached by Professor ~ents of that faith. Innovated last year, the Biolog·y Dinners are the project of Doctor Leonard B. Clark, chairman of the Biology Department, and host at these functions. He felt that there was too great a gap exist- ing between the clasical approach to science, as exists on the cam- pus, and the revolutionary ap- ' · wives to fraternity dinners, at the last meeting held Tues- · day, October 24, in Hare proaches developing in research. These dinners are an attempt to bridge that .gap. About ten stu- dents are usually in attendance, . with an -equal number of profes- sors, scientists, and doctors from the area. Each .student is as- signed a professor as his partner, with whom he attends the dinner. The meeting then adjourns to the Biology buUding, where one of the scientists lectures on his lat- SHERWOOD D. FOX Case Against By Prof. Sherwood Fox est resem·ch. Current planning for a better Mr. Barlow, Tuesday night's Union College in the foreseeable speaker, has been working with future demands careful considera- bacteriophages or \bacteria-eat- tion of the role of fraternities. e'rs\ for the past two years. A Fraternities are .an obstacle to the \phage he explained, is a virus- accomplishment of the primary, like partical that invades differ- aims of the College, namely, the ent bacteria, reproduces while pursuit of learning, and the de- within the bacterium, and is final- velopment of civilized hum.an be- ly released by the hundreds from ings who Wlll be able to hve ef- the then dead host. The phage is fectively with themselves and basically composed of two main with the social and physical units, an outside protein shell worlds around them. The elimi- termed \the ghost,\ and an in- nation of this obstacle will enable ternal nucleic acid composed of the College to work more rapidly DNA .. When a phage comes in toward its continuing goal of ex· contact with a bacterium the cellence in the achievement of its ghost attaches to its side, and main objectives. acting very much like a hyper- dermic neeedle, injects its eon- Speaks For Majority tents of nucleic acid into the hac- Although I speak only for my- terium. The nucleic acid then takes over control of the metabol- self, I wish to note that the ger.:- eral attitude e:xpressed here 1s ism of the bacterium, and directs shared by a cleal' majority of the it to produce DNA necessary for faculty-and that it is the faculty the phage's development and re- who are most closely concerned pl·oduction. with the ongoing life of the Col- House. Under the proposed plan, seven faculty men will be assigned to each fraternity house for the year. The faculty member will be assigned at random to a particular house. The purpose of this is to encourage the faculty members to become better acquainted With the fraternity system. It was felt a.t the meeting that criticism of the fraternity system might be curtailed if faculty members were able to discuss the system intelli- gently with the students over the dinner table. The vote on the reso-, lution was 9 to 8. The opposition objected to the process as being \too mechanical.\ They favored the present system whereby fra- ternities invite the faculty mem~ hers of their choice for dinner. Those favoring the resolution stated that under the present system the same faculty members received the invitations all the time and that the new arbitrary selection would give the whole faculty an opportunity to visit a fraternity. · Relations Stressed The resolution was prompted by the report of the Public Rela- tions Committee concerning the faculty's opinion of fraternities. The ~·eport showed that a small group of faculty men favor abol- ishing fraternities, an equally small group like them as they are, but the majority of men feel that. the fraternities should shift their emphasis from primarily so- cial to primarily intellectual. The first open house coffee hour is to be held on Thursday November 2, from 4-6 PM. Freshmen may visit any house. No liquor will be served. Sub-Freshmen Interview Discredited lege. It is as a member of the faculty, then, committed and loyal to the College, eaTing about the distance 'Se1Jarating us from most students and eager to cooperate in the task of creating a com- Dean 0. Edward Pollock gave munity: of schol.ars in which stu- verbal support to the resolution, dents may .be pa:rticipants, that feeling that a faculty member f th would be unlikely to turn down I offe1·, below,. some 0 e mo\e a specific dinner invitation and By Robert Kramer important reasons for the proposl- that the dinner would be a fine tion that the improvement of our 1 h th • The ·interview plays practically h l' · t' place to exp ore eac o .er s WILLIAM C. STONE Case For By Prof. William Stone In recent years the fraternity system has been critieized severe- ly by numerous faculty mem- bers. Anyone interested in the specifics should ask the particular :faculty members involved, most of whom call: be found on a Saturday afternoon after the football game having cocktails in the various farternities. For my own part, I have heard three major criticisms of the fra- ternities. l. The,y are archaic: That is to say they no longer serve the pur- pose for which they were founded. I have asked several of my coi- leagues what the original purpose was but have never obtained a satisfactory answer. If one wish- es to determine the reasons for the founding of a particular fl'a- ternity it is only necessary to read its charter or by-laws. Most of the fraternities at Union today are social brotherhoods, not aca- demic clubs. Furthermore, this was the 1·eason most were found- ed. The best evidence to support this contention is that the fra- ternities pay taxes to the city of Schenectady because their chart- ers characterize them as social rather than educational. Thus, they are serving today in the same capacity for which they were founded. They are, to a large extent, the social side of the student's life. ·no part in the admission of a College l'equh,es t e e Jmma Jon views. freshman to Union College, ac- of fraternities. Kappa Nu's. representative Ed- 2. The fraternities are a divi- cording to Jonathen Pearson III, Second Class ·Citizens ward Shapiro announced that his sive influence in the college. One Director .of Admissions of Union house had merged with Phi Ep- might just as well attempt to CoiJege. He calis the interview 1. Fraternities at Union divide silon Pi and will probably do its prove or disprove this as to prove system as it is used at Union the student body into two unequal rushing this year under that or disprove that \honesty is the today an \out-dated role play~ pal·ts: fraternity members, 70% name .. The Union chapter has not best policy.\ It is true, to bor- ing,\ adding that tile interview of the students, and independen~s, yet been named. . row one of Harriet Van Horn's itself has little bearing on the 30%. The independents,, while Supports Fraternities famous liries, that \many of the final acceptance or rejection of perhaps not totally despised a?d fraternity men are never house a candidate. rejected have been treated vu- Ed Skloot asked for the sup- broken.'' But their over all allegi- Since it is almost impossible to tually ~s second-class citizens. port of the I.F.C. in this year's ance appears to be to the college judge someone after one meeting, 2. Fraterru'ti'es divide seven- Focus program. r;lther than t~e fraternity. My h d . · p · h d t evidence for believing this con- and t ere is always a J.Stuict tenths of the student body into Mr. Tom 1 n~ ~r t fep~ese~t- cerns the financial position of pos&ibility that the applicant is seventeen relatively isolated frag- ing the A umm n ra ra erm Y many of the houses today. Not a nervous, the inte.rviewei's tend to ments, and this division prevent's Council read the ·aims of that h ld b . fi discount the ability of this sys- 1 t body. He stated that his organi- ouse on campus wou e m - tem is a scientific tool for ad- the deve opmelnts, amhon~ Ii u- zation is \dedicated to the per- nancial difficulty if the same pro- missions. dents, of loya ty to t e o ege petuation of the fraternity sys- portion of fraternity alumni sup- \Interviewers are highly suspic- ·as a whole, tem at Union.\ Thus, the I.F.C. ported \the house\ as support the ious of the overly ostentatious · 3. Anti-intellectual attitudes has the full support of his or- college. It seems dear that the and showy type. They regard this that students bl'ing with them to ganization, he said. loyalty is to the college. ty'pe as actors building themselves college are reinforced by the I.:F.C. president Peter Rappa- 3. Those in fraternities drink up to be more than they really fraternities, which, by undervalu- port clarified freshman rushing too .much, use bad language, have are,\ he said. ino- and interfeTing with intellec- rules, stating that freshmen will bad manners, etc. Of all the criti- Pearson also added that at rare tu;l endeavor and academic work, be allowed in the fraternity house cisms levele-d at the fraternity occasions interv:iews have proved inhibit the pursuit of learning and which Is giving a reception for a system, this is the most down to to J:>e very revealing. One case encourage the cult of mediocrity. guest soloist from 10 to 1 PM. earth and unfortunately contains cited was of an interviewer's re-. This is in opposition to the pri- Rushing violations must be turned more than a germ of truth. But port a few yeats ag.o, in which mary objectives of the College. in within 48 hours after the in- if a dog has fleas it is a senseless the examiner had apparently no- 4 . False values: of exclusivity fraction. cure to shoot the dog, for the A.~· T~Imm, went to Brown Coach Joe Maras will send his umvel'Sity where 35 schools Garnet eleven, fresh from succes- debated the national colle- sive victories over Rochester and 6 mte topic, \Be it resolved: R.P.I., out to face a }fobart squad Tnat Labor Unions Should t~at has .so far fa1led t.o taste . . . v:lCtory th1s season, Certam to be Be Under the Jur1sdict10n of up for the game Hobart presents tl..Uti-Trust Legislation.\ a challenge1ng ~pponent for the Brown, which prides itself on a Ma~as-m.en this .saturday, despite stmng annual tournament, boast- the1r um?'lpress1ve record, ed of such formidable entries as Followmg ·the. football cor.:test, Harvard, last year's National Col- at 8 P~, Memorial ~ha~el Will be legiate Debate Champion, Loyola filled w1th ,the music of. a rather of Chicago, Holy Cross, and sev- new, but hi~hly touted, Jazz com- era! other fine Ivy League and· bo, the Shde Hampton Octet. Eastern schools. The first three. Promising ~o be som~~hat uniqufil rounds of debating in the power and cer;tatnly . excitmg, Slide match tournament (which opposes Hampton s mu~tc can be he~rd winners against winners and los- for $1.50 a ticket. The . Uruo,n ers against losers) saw Union's College. Modern Jazz Society IS negative team of Paul M. Baltay sponsorm~ the <:oncert. and Stephen D. Wolfe defeating The thn·d. maJot· event of the strong teams from Colgate, Bran- week-end. Will be the Luthe:t;an deis and Dartmouth The final Reformatwn Day Rally, takmg rou~d matched the t~o undefeat- plac~ at 7 PM, October 29, in Me- ed teams, Harvard and Union. mona! Chapel. Sponsored by the Harva1·d's experience however Eastern New York Zone of the proved too extensive ~s they de~. Luthera;n Laymen's League, the feated the Philos in a close con- rally will feature an address by test. the Rev. Henry von Spreckelsen The affirmative team of Leslie of qrace Luthe~an Church-Mis- F D · d N '1 H Kl · sour1 Synod, Umon, N. J. Con- . aviS an ei . · emman gregations from over fifteen com- far~d le~s well, def!'ahng only t~e munities in and around the Tri- Un:verstty of Bndgeport while· cities Area are expected to at- losmg to p~werful tearl!s. from tend. Three choirs as well as Loyol.a ~f Chicago and WtlhaiD:s. clergymen from Saratoga, Glen Umon .s n.e~~ome_rs to deba~mg Falls, and Schenectady will par- had ~he1r Imtial mter-collegtate ticipate in the service which is exp~rtence at Dartmouth where anticipated to attract over twelve novice tea.ms fro!!! all ~v~r the hundred people. East met m what IS tradttlOnally --------- a difficult tournament. Coached by Professor J. E. Weinrich, the novice team posted impressive victories over West Point and Emerson College while losing to Dartmouth, Brandeis, and Am- herst. David M. Murray, Jr. and (Continued on Page 6) In answer to student pressure, Helmer Webb, head librarian, an· nounced yesterday that the clos- ing hours of Schaffet• Library will be changed from 10 PM to 11 Mondays thru Fridays. The Saturday and Sanday schedule will remain the same. Weaver Is Recipient Of Honorary Degree By Richard Aron Dr. Myron M. Weaver, college physician received an ·honorary Doctor of Science Degree from the University of British Columbia School of Medicine in Vancouver yes- terday. Weaver was one of · · · . ~ - · · · . · · six to receive honorary de- z.one. Withm the eight year pe- . r~od between 1924 and 1932, he grees at the fa:ll convocatlon received his A.B. at Wheaton Col- of this institution, at which lege and his M.S., M.D., and time three new buildings of Php. degrees at the University of th C 11 f M di · · t Chicago. From 1!)34 to 1941, he . e o ege O e cme, cos - served as Dil'ector of Research mg over $3,000,000, were Relations and head of the Medical dedicated. Department of Eli Lilly and Co. in Indianapolis. Between 1941 and 1~48, Weaver was on the faculty of the University of Chicago, the University of West Virginia, Loy- ola University School of Medi- cine, Carleton College, and the University of Minnesota Medical School, where hl' wa~ a~sistant dean. In 1948, Weaver became the first dean of the University . of British Columbia School of ticed ·something highly abno~mal dominate the .operation of frater- fleas remain. Does anyone bon- about a candidate's personality. nities, as each one tends to set estly believe that the abolition of This applicant went to anothei· up a wall arou:rtd a selected few, On Tuesday, Octobe1· 21st at the fraternity system will also Medicine, which he helped organ- ize. During the eight year period when he acted as dean, Weaver -erved as consultant to the presi- dents Commission on the Health of the American People, Vice President of Physiotherapist's As- sociation of Canada, and Canadian representative to the First World Conference on Mediral Educa- tion, in London. He gave up hi!': nosition as dean of the Medical \rhonl to come to Fnion in 19fifi as Professor of Her>lth Rnd Di- rector of the Collc>ge Health Serv- ire. He ha~ hem DPan of the Graduate School of Union Uni- school and the following year insulating them from contact with 4:30 PM, in Bailey Hall 305 the abolish bad manners, bad Ian- knifed his father to .death during v.aried types of human beings. FOCUS program will hold its guage and all other features in- the night. These values are in direct con- first general meeting of ALL stu- herent in the present generation ex~~;l~~ermi~;e~:.ti~~e tf~~:rJfer; tradiction to the spirit that an- dents interested in world affairs ~~ ~h~e~~~ 1 eth: :*fphhae ~~l~n~nli( is almost always a very boring, imated the foUl) ding of Union, .and centering on South America and house was used afl a dormitory uninteresting affair, during which to our contemporary Amerwan 8 r · Pl d · I · and I was the proctor. Dr. Dan- the interviewer has to subject ideology of demo{!racy. . 0 !Vla. anne Hl an ear y simng kon, who occupied Dr. Blodgett's h . lf th h · 1 5 E . 11 · ff' · t , weekend of lectUI'es, semmat$, h . d d DR. MYRON M. WEAVER 1mse to · e same mec amca , con<Jmica y me ICien as I . · . . · · ouse, complame · as often a:h as questions time and time .again. devices for housing and feeding movies and other PIOJect~ con- vehemently as when it was a fra- \In the final analysis,\ he stated, students, .fraternities are a drain cerning this critical area of the ternity. In fact with regard to , \the final judge of the merit of on. both student resources and world. Already contracted as the I manner~. language, etr. nothing 1 Weavers car~er has been ver!lity since 1959. Weaver is a Fellow of the A meriran Colleg-e of Physicians, and a member of hoth Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons and the American Medical Association. a candidate is his academic rec-· C u· f d \ . · k . h S t · had h ng d I marked by work m southern Can- ord not the interview which is 0 ege un s. . . . · featured spea er IS t e. e~re ary c a e · ; ada and in the northern part of becoming a 'vestigial organ' in 6. The vaunted cont.nbutwns of I General of the OrgamzatJon of I I do not condone these prar- the United States. Born in De- today's admissions system.\ (Continued on Page 6) American States. (Continued on Page 6) 1 troit, Weaver received his sec- '

2 €i~'t <trnuror 6 ~uiruata 0 0 \'c~l L ~:<-· \IVEC'I'l\D-;. Publlsbed Fridays during the school Editorial Office, Washburn Hall, year by the Student Body of Union Union College, Publication Office, SchenectadY Printing Company, 60 2 College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na· Broadway. Entered In the Sche- tlonal Advertising Re:oresenta.tive: nectady Post 0ffice as Second Class Na.tlona.l Adve11tlslng Service, Inc., Mail Natter. subscriptlon 16c a College Publishers Representative, copy;, $3 a year delivered anywhere 420 Madison Ave .. N. Y. C. In tlie United States. SENIOR BOARD Wl:'o:ALIJ E. IJIH'Sl!'o; '6o .1·>1 6-2S!!O .I!.:ditor~in-Chief ......... Business Manager .. Managing Editor ............. News Editor HrJOrts EdUor PETER E. SCHWARTZ '6~ ....... EX 3·9232 ....... . !Jlll 'GLASS ~1. ALL!•;;\; '63. .ill 6-S185 .... . ALFRED SOM~IER '63. J.\).n;s sTno::-;HI•;rnt 'ti:l David' n~rt'n:o~on 'iit Simon Sobo '64 A lien St . .'h wartz '6 4 Andy Fogelson '61. Hu\Var·d Barbttl'u~h 'b! Alan Kaufman '64 . Bill HeislPr \64 . !llu.rtiu Nt.~wmun 'tH Steve Raymond '63 Steve Factor 'G 3 . . . ......... . PPtPr Ambrose '62 Lunr11•• :\aHt'IVt>IH t,.f JVSIOR BOARD Acting Feature Editor ............ Assistant News EditOr ............... Make-up Editor ...... Assistant SrJot·ts Editor Copy Editor . .. Special Events Editor .......... Exchange Editor ... .. . .... Assunant Feature Edi~or ---··--····Local Advertising Managnr ............ National Advertising Manager Arlvf\rtis1ng Co-Ot·dlnator ~uh~t·etptwn Manager ( '11 i',Uiu.tiun ~tanager REPORTER :STAt\!•\ THE FRATERNITY LOTTERY tlllbt•rt lh•ll. t;,'l.dti (;,~ .. 11\\ald, Huruld Horw!t:.::. Llu~·U ~uritk. AI Pizer, Fred ltos••nlw:g-, Ht• k ~that f. Hnht>Jt ~hPIWJn, Bu\\',t.l•l !\lt~gt>l. Hulwrt ~kloot, Petpr ~11ssnmn Bt·Hd S\Vtot>nP}'. *John Thnrm~. ~kirl Towl. l'a•Jl Tnrn~\'r. l.a\vton l\for. · IHiun .. Ell~wurth Tiel• y, Kul' ~kt:nt\'tdt\r, Ent.: Tudt>r. FOCUS Program Starts CASDIUATE REPORTER STAFF Andr~w Al'la·r .• \ftlold Uerkuwitz. ~dward Brynes. ~·ayne ButiPr. ~1artln Cohen. !\.ta.rtln J.ty, ).1•·1 J.::lng. Hobt->rt Kra:uer. llou~:>laa LaHJt~r. Edward V. lloore, Jon :-.;'•·lJh~ H~t·b111d Para•li~\ Janws V\·IJsor •. Lany Hc,mwlfz. Brad Rotkrabt>r. Rl'llf:IIE.<IS STAFF Hoh~~rt Bulson. Paul F'Pirlma n. F.:d l{t·nus. h.·Pns AI $angullllano, John Simoni, Barry \Vt'mstein r .a F1oi'P, I.al·ry Ptnlis. The Balloon Punctured By Edward Skloot Several weeks ago, Union stu- dents intet·ested in a new form of educational experience began wo1·k. Desirous of aiding their fellow students leam in a stim- ulating and dynamic way, they set the cornerstone of the in- cipient FOCUS pt\Ogram. programPrl, and faculty and ad- ministration were consulted. Now it is for the students to accept or reject; to seize the opportunity and effect an outstanding success or to lip-service the idea into miserable failure. Both members of the faculty and student body have leveled serious charges against the fraternity system in its present form. One serious drawback of the fraternity sys- tem which has been ignored in this discussion, is its im- ' portance on the campus. Its importance has ballooned out of proportion because the college provides nothing as a substitute for the social facilities offered by the fraterni- For those not fan1il iar with the of its his- tory may be given. The pro- gram was initi- ated last sem- ester. Students from all classes decided that a program of complete anal- Why join? Because FOCUS was designed for all students. In discussing the economic, political and social aspects of Bolivian pt\Oblems they wilt learn about and appreciate the efforts of Bolivia {and to an extent, Latin America) to meet the oppressive problems of the 20th century. They will study and perhaps sug- gest conclusions. They will meet with experts who will assist in the program. Engineers will dine with engineer.ing students and enumerate problems, perhaps draw up model projects. Officials, wise in health problems of Bo- livia, will dine and study with premedical students, and all others mterested in investigation of health problems and their solu- ties. Seventy percent of the freshman class joins the fra- ternity system each year; thirty percent do not. Few if any remain independent by choice. The freshman being rushed is inevitably faced with a decision: whether to join a house, have a place to eat, a place to bring a date, and a place to have a party, or to remain independent, have no Skills Applied place to eat, no place to bring a date and no place to have Emphasis on Bolivia FOCUS permits its participants ' and underl)tanding of the vital issues of the day would be welcomed on the cam- pus. They felt that sucit a pro- gram, extra-curricular in nature, would be profitable to all involved and in the end support the con- cPpt of a \balanced college.\ They decided Lat·in America was thP plal'e to FOCUS. tions. a party. Really, there is no choice because there is no This year, about two dozen stu- to apply their academic skms to dents volunteered to draw up problems that have practical and alternative. Joining a fraternity at Union is a necessity. guidelines for FOCUS. It was de- immediate overtones. The pro- On nights when Hale House may be closed during the cided that the program would gram will conclude with a three 1 . continue throughout both semes- day conference March 9-11, 1962, winter, the Independent must eat many of his mea s m a ters, hopefully with every activity where ideas will be aired and pro- cafeteria in downtown Schenectady. If he invites a date on campus participating. Rather posals will be presented. Two f than all of Latin America, a topic prominent speakers will address here for a prom weekend, the only places suitable or enter- deemed too mammoth, they de- the participants. Entertainment taining her other than at fraternities are a few small, im- cided to \FOCUS on Bolivia.\ will . be provided that Saturday Wh~· Bolivia? Because it has evenmg personal lounges located on the first floor of two of our more problems and greater po- Little. more remains to be said. four dormitories. True, independents have had several tential than most other countries The time has come fot· Union stu- . · h k 11 b d t b r th t th in Latin America. llecause it is dents to fish or cut bait. That parties m the Rat S e er, ut we O no e Ieve a e an ideal place to begin. intellectual renaissance will never skeller is suitable for large parties. The need for a student An agenda was prepat·ed, aims dawn on this campus if people union building providing a dining hall for independents r\.. ..... and a room for their parties is more than apparent. Eventually, the proposed student union building might also house many of the activities and the bookstore now located in Washburn Hall which is slated for demolition in the near future. Consequently, in uniting both activity fa- cilities and social facilities under one roof, we feel that the necessity to join a fraternity will decline and a renewed interest in the college will ensue. The responsibility for providing these facilities rests in the hands of the Board of Trustees. Other colleges such as the University of Rochester have recognized the import- ance of such a building. Their Tim€!'1-Union building houses a radio station, publications offices and several meeting rooms for clubs. In addition, the university pro- vides a beautiful wood panelled room for entertaining and a large hall which serves both as a dining room and a party room. It is now up to our Board of Trustees to recognize the same need at Union and provide the approp- riate facilities to alleviate current problems. The Phoenix Players: A New Hamlet by David Gold Truly fine theater came to stressed three points particulal\iy. Schenectady Wednesday n i g h t First, Hamlet, upon hearing the when the P11oenix: Theater recre- ghost ask him to revenge his ated its acclaimed Off-Broadway death, only feigns madness in- production of Hamlet. This op- stead of becoming truly insane. portunity for a ,great many up- Nicholas Kepros, as Hamlet, be- state New Yorkers, who could haved more cunning than an in- not see the production in New sane man would. Kepros always York City, was sponsored by the seemed to have his senses, even New 'York State Council on the in the presence of his mother, Arts. step-father, and Palonius, aptly Friday, ·October 27, 1961 · Movie Reviewed: I . . . . ; Picnic On The Grass By Peter After seeing this very inter- esting film one has the feeling of looking upsidedown at a gallery of Impressionist p a i n t i n g- s through a kaleidoscope. This romping, a 1 m o s t sur-realist message, has a more Pl'Ofound effect on the optic nerve than on the ·intellect. Bright colors splash aU over the screen with the dizzying effect of a simu- lated visual aphrodisiac. One is not surp1'ised to dis\ cover that the director of this delightfully unconventional film is Jean Renoir, the son of the famous French painter, Auguste Renoir. The fi:Im was shot in the south of France, near Cagnes, where Renok's . father spent his ,, last years. Shot.· in twenty-four : days, with five came1·as work- i n g simultane- ously, R e n o i r has succeeded t·endet·ing t h composition o depth and tion that is father's style. He is a veteran of the French film industry, and his films always offer great pictorial beauty. But Renoir is more than a pictorial artist; he is a pro- nounced humanist, consistently in- vesting his production::; with an important message. Though it is easy to get lost in the maze of pastoral color and splendid scenery, Renoir is pt·i- marily intevested in a humanist effect. The natural setting is to deal with people. Renoir has been quoted as saying, \mech- anization has ruined everything. How terrible to think that all the olive ti·ees in this dream world have been uprooted to be replaced by such profane culti- vation. I want olive trees in my film because a background of nature is essential to stories about people.\ Biologist Seduced Lefcotut clearly: !Do we want a society brewed i:n a testube - a stel'ile; empty w-orld such as' Huxley de- picts in Brave New World? Paul ·:rdeuris:;e, an accomplished master o:f the French screen, stars in the role of Professor Etien~e Alexis. :He is seen as aloof and unfeeling-,, sincerely believing in his idea of revolutionizing the world l:>y scientific breeding • .Haw- ver, he is unable, to control 'his feelings 'When, 'lost in the coun- tryside, :he . confronts N'enette (Cathe1·hu ~otivel) bathing au naturel ,in a little stream. He is suddenly ~nd profoundly convert- ed to the conventional sch.ool of baby-maldng. Finally rnl!-de ·to realize the absurdity of his no- tions, he confesses, lying bliss- fully in, Nenette's arms, \Hap- piness pe:rhaps is the .submission to nature 1 s calling, There is a good dea] of jovial comedy i:n the film, but op.e is more impressed by the air Of strangene::Js that .premeates the film. Sotne of the film seqllences, especia.lly the stol'!ll scene 1 leave one w1th a· pecuhar feeling of the e:xotic an d commanding power ()f -natUl·e. The characters are made 'to dance by .the sultry breezes <>f the warm Spring countrysicle. We see their aloof- ness and sterility as absllrd in the faee of the sensual Spl'ing- time W~ll'ld. This is an art'esting film that requires c.'f the viewer a SUJ',ren-' der of t11e senses.' There is no melodramatic situation or well- defined dramatic climax; instead there is a total visual-emotional effect t11at makes this film recomment:lable as a unique ex- pPriPnce in the modern cinema. The story deals with the seduc- tion of a prominent biologist and promoter of artificial insemina- tion by a voluptuous country girl who has gone to work for him as a chamber maid. During the picnic arranged in order to facil- itate his marriage with his Ger- man cousin, general of the inter- european feminist scout move- ment, strange things begin to happen. The world of nature is brought to life by Renoir's cam- eras; shots of natural beauty, of the live proc1·eative force, are juxtaposed with personalities of those who would have artificial insemination replace natural con- ception. Renoir makes his point Members of the Union Coilege Student Council and the college administrative staff will meet at 2 PM S-unday ~ at Canterbury House in .Scotia for a half-day conference on college affairs, Dr. Carter Davidson, Union's pl·esi- dent, announced today. Meeting will-. be 33 students, who are rnembel's of the student council, antd representatives of ten Union C()ollege committees in- volwd in ~· long range study of the college. The tnstees, administration, and facult?, are studying the long 1·ange need~ of the college in such areas as :faculty resources, ad- ministmtiv-E support and organi- zation, ac:ademic affah·s, com- munity programs, admissions, and financial a~sistance for students. \Sunday's conference is de- signed t~ ~cquaint student lead~ ers with the progress so fm• and to receive su~rgestions from them, Dr. Davids.on said. 117 Molllawk Ave. SC011A, N. Y. THRU NEXT WEDNESDAY - (English Subtitles) A French' Drama PICNIC ON THE GRASS \The Priggish Had Best Stay Away\- .Saturday Review Show Time: 7:00 and 9:00 c p 'tl§il 5#~ DIAMANT.E'S Enjoy our Fine Home Cooked Itali<m Food in Our Comfortable Dining Roorwt F~iday, OctobE Fal~ Sti During, rec cifica!ly, our n dously. ·Person; plans a<!vocate as well as the , membei'S of HH viewpoints, F By E. \Are ;rout· tected?\ need ~olen.m remiud• udn·rtisers alo essity a ne,w in the United the fallout slH be a .strong n age we must tion, rwl ouly deli\ l'l\ <kfens also in u ur <.dJ milia! nutleat· Kennedy's .:ut of tile nationa g team Ill<' luJcs >u.ppl,\ ing uf area:-; t n existi 1 a,; W<'ll as the ,.Iwlte1· faeiliti• ion's tt..•:,uulJJ~i~ mg in the atti J:ed on pub ltc prog-ram. \\' hiL< al'ousing wot· ugain~t m.·h hl:tRts. I•rovid~ \ While sw:nt in ~omplete a) .num·•liate ..tr u I tim;, le df t'l't l.c~t mca.n~ uf. c·ral l'<JHcen:-;u: will pr·u\ ide p spated ,the i1111 l(l'OUlld zero. I tlle Seient1st~ tliation Inf<m vou ar<' i.n an ~· ;.ni>rl hy falloul vou a; e lte lo\\ ~an IU~lkP thP J!fp awl dPath. ni.n~ cllt'mi~t ;tl'e><~t·d :.t tll'· , en,;c C ou nc, I desert at·Pa~. I'Hini:t:I. woak : l'Oin X\'O.J]d\rit hv inP;dt·nt:u! Ia•: do -it -.youu Who, then, d\ tlw apoeal 'f ., tton theory o a.ppears that the philosoph<· emo·tions aga knowl<>dge. ,., ~ fl nuclear Wljll' ~ l;ghtlr and ev made to a\·oi• itv. tlw futul'l Ne,<I Shute'~ would luve < Be1·trund Ru, mond cour~g<' ir1g that scien· on nue:em· • worhe;,·s u~e ,trf'JJ!:,\th .in tl· his '·bette1·-R• ~ paign is base• that a nuclear of OUl\ Wo-i'Jd this opinion t concm·. In fa, occupancy tol tel' for Li ve1 suppo1ted bj hum the Ln. 8 nia's Luwl'Pnc tory, one of tl 'IUc·lear weapo l\catt>d in tha :\lust ::-.o In n·n· evP nudear \\'L<l]ll o•Jt are with OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOTT ST. OPEN DAII,.Y 10 TO 3 A.M . ..- SUNDA.YS 5 P.M.-3 A.M •. - 6 hit silly, if n< 1:o ignore t1H companying one is of thE Several suggestions concerning a student union for this college have been made. One would require construc- tion of a new building embodying all the necessities which we have attempted to discuss. The other suggests that the Trustees make the Nott Memorial Building a lecture hall, slightly larger than Old Chapel. Then connections can be made between the Rathskeller, Old Chapel, Hale House and the Hale House Lounge. These rooms could then be converted to a student union building, with the activities being placed on the second floor of Hale Bouse. Both sug- gestions appear practical. Either would produce the de- Shakespeare is certainly not new to the theater; however, 1945 was the last year that a major American pt·~duction of Hamlet was given on a Broadway stage. This was Maurice Evan's G.L Hamlet, Last year, New York saw· a production by the Phoenix Company that has kept the city talking since. One can see why after having attended Wednesday night's performance. The entire production, from acting to stag- ing, was excellent. played by John Hefferman. Ham- let, it seems, has only bargained for ti~e till he (!~n avenge his father s death. This brings up the second point: is Hamlet a coward? Kepros seems, as the play progresses, to be reassuring himself and building up his cour- age until he can actually force himself to avenge his father's death. Draw your attention to the differences between Hamlet and Laertes, who comes back having learned of his father's death and immediately tries to kill Claudius by organizing a re- volt against him. ~- sa a an e •---• s has reached I can complete!: !t would ~ten as optimistic take every p sired result. We believe that a student union building is the only postive remedy to the fratemity problem on campus to- day. It will provide the alternative for the freshman not wanting to join a house. It will force the fraternities to correct their evils themselves or lose members consistent- ly and utimately be forced to disband. Therefore, we be- lieve that a student union building must be placed on the top of the Trustees' priority list for additions to and modi- fications of the campus plant. Nicholas Kepros played a very question or rather, possibly a dis- agreement over Hamlet's real age. Scholars have concluded from the grave scene that Hamlet was close to thirty years old. As I have stated, this is controver- sial. The Phoenix: Company chose to cast Hamlet as a younger man about twenty. One might get the impression from watching the play that Mr. Kepros actually did not fit the part, but when Laertes, played diligently by R. A. Jor- dan, appeared to be the same age as Hamlet as well as his closest companion Horatio, the age dif- ference did not matter. In fact I felt it was rather t•efreshing to see a younger Hamlet than I had actually pictured. Since I am a college student, possibly that point was more noticeable. The acting, under the able direction of Stuart Vaugham, The third point that the Com- pany felt important was that Gertrude, Hamlet's mother, never knows that Claudius killed her first husband. while accusing her of incest and implying that Claudius did kill her husband, Hamlet uses the phrase \to kill a king.\ Gertrude appears com- pletely mystified when hearing this. She cannot comprehend Whl)t Hamlet is trying- to ' say. When she dies in the last scene at the hand of one of her hus- bands rilses, a poisoned drink, she still does not realize · the truth. . These th1·ee points, intel'- preted as they were, made the nlay more convincing and force- ful. The Ph o e n i x Company definitely has to be commended for a new and exciting interpre- tation of a three century old play. fftYfftifft9'ttftff¥TTfft+YYT'TTYPffttftftTt•tTt Sherman's Liq,liorStore DISCOUNTS ON CA'SE LOT'S Free Delivery FR2-3465 Hours: 9 A.M. to 11 :00 P.M. 720 Albany St. / ~.·serve· that wl miracle be sp Couch of the Defense stat \' must be part of life .. \ There is a Washingtoll t ·t.t COMED. p • API State Sf. at

2 Publlehed Fridays du~lng the. school EdltorillCI ·Office, Washburn Rail, year by the Student Body or Union lJnlon College, Publication Office, Schenectady Printing Company, 502 College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na· Broadway, Entered In the Sche- tlonaJ. Advertising Representative: nectady Post Office as second Class . Na.tlonal Advertising Service, Inc.. Mall Matter. subscription 15c a College Publishers Representative. copy; $3 a year delivered' anywhere 420 Madison A.ve., N. Y. C. in the United States. !{()~ALll 1~. !JHl'Sl~ '62 PETER E. SCHWARTZ '6~ ... DOI'GLASS l\1. ALL~~;-.; '63 ALFRED SOMMER '63. JA~HcS tlTHOSHI•:!W 't::l Da v ld BPrPnson '6 4 Simon Sobo ''64 SENIOR BOARD ... Dl 6·2S30. ... EX 3-9232 ...... . .lH 6-Sl8o .. JUNIOR BOARD . Editor-in-Chief . . ...... Business Manager . ... . .. Managing ·Edltoi' ...................... News Editor Rimrts Editor ::~ .\---::- ... . ' Friday, Octc>ber 27, 1961 Movi.e Reviewed: J ' . . . ·'Picnic On The Grass By Peter After seeing this very. inter- esting film one has the feeling of looki·ng upsidedown at a gallery of Impl'essionist p a i n t in g s th,rough a •kaleidoscope. This romping, a 1 m o ~ t sur-realist message, has a more profound effect on the optic nerve than on the intellect. Bright colors splash aU over the screen with the dizzying effect of a simuM lated visual aphrodisiac. One is not surprised to dis,. cover that the director of this delightfully unconventional film is Jean Renoir, the son of the fatnous French painter, Auguste Renoir. The film was· sh,ot in the south of Ft·ance, near Cagnes, where Renoir's ·· · · Lefcourt clearly: Do we want a .society brewed hi. a te~?tube· - a sterile, empty world such as· Huxley de• .picts in Hr~ve New World? Allen Schwartz ·~4. Andy Fogelson '64 .. HtJWunl Barl.·tu·u~h 'f.i-1 Alan Kaufman '64 ... Bill HeislE>r '6·1 . !llartm l'~\vman '6-t Steve Raymond '63 .. Steve Factor ·as . PPtPr AmbrosA '62 ' LlHHlW :-.;tlH:-il\\t>l'tl 'ta-l Cal \rt~l•h ·r;..: .. Aettng Feature Editor .......... AssiStant News -Editor .................. Malte·UP Editor ....... Assistant Sports Editor Copy Editor ..... Special Events Editor .......... E><change Editor . Asstatant F'eature Editor ......... Local Advertising Ma.naga.r ............... .National Advertising Manager Advertis1ng Co-Ordinator Hubsl'ription Manager t'Jrculat·inn :\tanager THE FRATERNITY LOTTERY • father spent his,,;, . last ye!lrs. Shot;· .. in twenty-four . · days, with five ' cameras work- Paul Meurisf!e, an accomplished master o~ ·~he French l;lCreen, stars in the rote of Professor Etien11-e Alexis. He is seen as aloof and unfeeling, sincerely ·believing in his idea of revolutionizing the world by sciEmtific ·breeding. HQ:W- ver, he is unable to control his feelings when, lost in the coun- tryside; he confronts Nanette (Catherine ~ot:Lv:el) ba:thing au naturel in a little stream. He .is suddenly and profoundly conv:e:vt- ed, to the conventional school of baby-making. F,inally made to realize the absul'dity of his no- tions, he confesses, lying bliss- fqlly in Nenette's arms, \Hap- piness .perhaps is the submission to nl).ture's calling. There is a good .deal of jovial comedy in the film, . but one is more. impressed ·by the air of stmngeness that premeates t.Qe film. Some of the film .sequences, especially the storm scene, .leave one with a· peculiar feeling of the exotic a n d commanding power of nature. The characters are made to dance by the sultry breezes of the warm Spring countryside. We see their aloof- ness and sterility as absurd in Ute face of the sensual Spring- time wol.'!d. RJJ:PORTER STAn•' liiliJt•rt Bdl. t_;,., aid ~; 1 t't>lHHt.ltl. Haruld Horwlt~. Lloyd !'\'urit k. AI Pizer, Fred itos••nlu•rg-, Ht•·k ~dwt r. Hnht•n ~he:>rwln. HuWttl•l Slt•bt->1. HtliJPrt ::;:}tloot, Peter ~ussman Brad ~~\:.- .. nPy. Jflhn 'Thol'nP. ~1<10 Towl. l'~uJJ 'f'urnPr. Lawton l\for- 1 Json,. Ell::;\\·ur tIt T1 i:l.t y, H.ul' :-kt.nPtdPr, !>;rit• Tudf'r. CA~DIDATE REPORTER. STAFF FOCUS Program Starts Andrew Acket·, .. \rnotd Eer·kowltz, Edward HrynE>s. Wayne. Butler. Mar.tln Cohen, ~I art In JttY. :\Id Ktng. HuLt•rt I' ramer, Vout;las· Lallier. Edward V. Moore. Jon :-\··nh~ H1t l>ard ]~arall!!'-'11' . .JanJt~s '\\\!!sort I.an y Horowitz. Brad nockrabE'r. Bl'SP.IrF~\'S STAFF Hoh~rt Bulson. f•uul FPldman. ~d ]{raw-::. Iw•n!-'l Al SangwJlianu, Juhn S1munl, Barry Wt•instt>in La .f.'lllt'P. La1·ry Ptalis. The · Ballo,on Punctured By Edward Skloot Several weeks ago, Union stu- dents interested in a new form of educational experience began work. Desirous of aiding their fellow students learn in a stim- ulating and dynamic way, they set the cornerstone of the in- cipient FOCUS program. Both membe-rs of the faculty and student body have leveled serious charges against the fraternity system in its present form. One serious drawback of the fraternity sys- tem which has been ignored in this discussion, is its im- ' portance on the campus. Its importance has ballooned out of proportion because the college provides nothing as a substitute for the social facilities offered by the fraterni- For those not familiar with the of its his- tory may be given. The pro- gram was initi- ated ·last sem- ., ester. Students from all classes. decided that a program of complete anal- ties. Seventy percent of the freshman class joins the fra- ternity system each year; thirty percent do not. Few if any remain independent by choice. The freshman being rushed is inevitably faced with a decision: whether to join a house, have a place to eat, a place to bring a date, and a ' and understanding rwogramerl, and faculty UI:\d ad- ministration were consulted. Now it is for the students to accept or reject; to seize the op.portunity- and effect an outstanding success or to lip-service the idea into miserable failure. Why join? Because FOCUS was designed for all students. In discussing the economic, political and' socral aspects of Bolivian problems they will learn about and appreciate the efforts of Bolivia (and to an extent, Latin America) to meet the oppressive problems of the 20th century. They will study and perhaps sug- gest conclusiontl. They will meet with experts who will assist in the program. Engineers will dine With engineering students and enumerate problems, perhaps draw up model projeets. Ofl'icials, wise in health problems of Bo- livia, will dine and study with premedical students and all others mterested in investigation of health problems and their solu- vital issues of the day would he welcomed on the cam- pus. They felt that suclt a pro- gram, extra-curricular in ·nature, would be profitable to all involved and in the end support the con- cept of a \balanced college.\ They rlecir!ed Latin America was the place to FOCUS. tions. place to have a party, or to remain independent, have no Skills Applied place to eat, no place to bring a date and no place to have Emphasis on Bolivia FOCUS permits its participants a party. Really, there is no choice because there is no This year, about two dozen stu- to apply their academic skills to dents volunteered to draw up problems that have practical and alternative. Joining a fraternity at Union is a necessity. guidelines for FOCUS. It was de- immediate ove1·tones. The pro- On nights when Hale House may be closed during the cided that the program would gram will conclude with a three . continue throughout both sernes- day conference March 9-ll, 1962, winter, the Independent must eat many of his meals In a ters, hopefully with every activity where ideas will be aired and pro- cafeteria in downtown Schenectady. If he invites a date on campus participating. Rather posals will be presented. Two t than all of Latin America, a topic prominent speakers will add't'ess here for a prom weekend, the only places suitable for en er- deemed too mammoth, they de- the participants. Entertainment taining her other than at fraternities are a few small, im- cided to \FOCUS on Bolivia.\ will . be provided that Saturday Why Bolivia? Because it has evenmg personal lounges located on the first floor of two of our more problems and greater po- Little. more remains to ,be said. four dormitories. True, independents have had several tential than most other countries The time has come for Union stu~ h k II b d t b I . th t th in Latin America. Because it is dents to fish or cut bait. That parties in the Rat s e er, ut we o no e 1eve a e an ideal place to begin. intellectual renaissance will never skeller is suitable for large parties. The need for a student An agenda was prepared, aims dawn on this campus. if people union building providing a dining hall for independents t\·\-·e_r_e_l_is_t_ed_._t...,o~p-ic_s_o_f_in_q_u_ir_y_w_e_re __ in_s_is_t_o_n_\\-· !>1_.-_w_.!_tt_e_e_in..:.g;_it_t_o_d_e_a_t_h. and a room for their parties is more than apparent. The Phoenix Players: Eventually, the proposed student union building might also house many of the activities and the bookstore now located in Washburn Hall which is slated for demolition in the near future. Consequently, in uniting both actiW.ty fa- cilities and social facilities under one roof, we feel that the necessity to join a fraternity will decline and a renewed A New Hatnlet by David Gold Truly fine theater came to stressed three points particularly. interest in the college will ensue. ing ously, Reno 1 has succeeded in t·endering t he composition of depth and tion that is cnar.!wterJ:stJ.c father's style. He is a veteran of t.Qe French film industry, and his films always offer grea.t pictorial beauty. But Renoir is more than a pictorial artist; he is a pro- nounced humanist, consistentl-y in- vesting his productions with an important message. Though it is easy to get lost in the maze of pastoral color and splendid scenery, Renoir is pri- marily interested in a humanist effect. The natural setting is to deal with people. Renoir has been quoted as saying, \mech- anization has ruined everything. How terrible to think that all the ,olive trees in this dream world have been uprooted to be replaced by sueh profane culti- vation. I want olive trees in my film because a background of nature is essential to stOl'ies about people.\ Biologist Seduced The stot'Y deals with the seduc- tion of a prominent biologist and promoter of artificial insemina- tion ·by a voluptuous country girl who has gone to work for him as a chamber maid. During the picl;l.ic arranged in order to facil- itate his marriage with his Ger- man cousin, general of the inter- european feminist scout move- ment, strange things begin to happen. The world of nature is brought to life by Renoir's cam- eras; shots of natural beauty, of the live procreative force, are juxtaposed with personalities of those who would have artificial insemination. replace natural con- ception. Renoir makes his point This is an arresting film that requires of the viewer a surrenM' der of the senses.' There is no melodramatic situation ot' well~ defined dramatic climax; instead there is a total visual-emotional effect that makes this filn'l recommendable as a unique ex- perience in the modern cinema. Members ·Of the Union College Student Council and the college administrative· staff will meet at 2 PM Sunday , at Canterbury I-{ouse in ..Scatia for a half-day conference on college affairs, DT. Carter Davidson. Union's presi- dent, announced today. Meeting will' be 33 students, who are members of the student council, and representatives of ten Union College committees in- \'olved in a long range st)ldy of the college. T h e trustees, administration, and faculty, are studying the long range needs of the college in such areas as faculty resources, ad- ministrative support and organi- zation, academic affairs, com, .munity programs, admissions, and financial assistance for students. \Sunday's conference is de- signed to acquaint student lead- ers with the Pl'ogress so far and to receive su!lgestions from them, Dr. Davidson said. 117 Mohawk Ave, SCOTIA, N. Y. THRU NEXT WEDNESDAY - (English Subtitll\!s) A French 'Drama PICNIC ON THE GRASS \The Priggish Had ~est Stay Away\ -Saturday Review Show Time: 1:00 and 9:00 The responsibility for providing these facilities rests in the hands of the Board of Trustees. Other colleges such as the University of Rochester have recognized the import- ance of such a building. Their Times-Union building houses a radio station, publications offices and several meeting rooms for clubs. In addition, the university pro- vides a beautiful wood panelled room for entertaining and a large hall which serves both as a dining room and a party room. It is now up to our Board of Trustees to recognize the same need at Union and provide the approp ... Schenectady Wednesday night Fh·st, Hamlet, upon hearing the when the Phoenix Theater recre- ghost ask him to revenge his ated its acclaimed Off-Broadway death, only feigns madness in- production of Hamlet. This op- stead of becoming truly insane. portunity for a great many up- Nicholas Kepros, as Hamlet, be- state New Yorkers, who could ha:ved more cunning than an in- not see the' production in New sane man would. Kepros al\'l'ays ¥:istlliAil@ Z\J\RR'l 2JI! 'W? Qs1W 7 \- U York City, was sponso1·ed by the seeined to have his senses, eYen New York State Council on the in the presence of his mother, Arts. step-father, and Palonius, aptly A. ., riate facilities to alleviate current problems. Several suggestions concerning a student union for this college have been made. One would require construc- tion of a new building embodying all the necessities which we have attempted to discuss. The other suggests that the Trustees make the Nott Memorial Building a lecture hall, slightly larger than Old Chapel. Then connections can be made between the Rathskeller, Old Chapel, Hale House and the Hale House Lounge. These rooms could then be converted to a student union building, with the activities being placed on the second floor of Hale House. Both st:~.g­ gestions appear practical. Either would produce the de- sired result. We believe that a student union building is the only postive remedy to the fraternity problem on campus to- day. It will provide the alternative for the freshman not wanting to join a house. It will force the fraternities to correct their evils themselves or lose members consistent- ly and utimately be forced to disband. Therefore, we be- lieve that a student union building must be placed on the top of the Trustees' priority list for additions to and modi- fications of the campus plant. Shakespeare is certainly not new to the theater; however, 1945 was the l~st year that a major American production of Hamlet was given on a Broadway stage. This was Maurice Evan's G.I. Hamlet. Last year, New York saw a production by the Phoenix Company that has kept the city talking since. One can see why after having attended Wednesday night's performance. The entire production, from acting to stag- ing, was excellent. Nicholas Kepros played a very question or rather, possiblf. a dis- agreement over Hamlet.s real age. Scholars have concluded from the grave scene that Hamlet was close to thirty years old. A's I have stated, this is controver- sial. The Phoenix Company chose to cast Hamlet as a younger man about twenty. One might get the impression from watching the play that Mr. Kepros actually did not fit the part, but when Laertes, played diligently by R. A. Jor- dan, appeared to be the same age as Hamlet as well as his closest companion Horatio, the age dif- fei·ence did not matter. · In fact I felt it was rather refreshing to see a younger Hamlet than I had actually pictured. Since I am a college student, possibly that point was more noticeable. The acting, under the able direction of Stuart Vaugham, played by John Hefferman. Ham- let, it seems, has only bargained for• time till he -~an avenge his father's death. This brings up the second point: is Hamlet a DIAMANTE'S Enjoy our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOIT ST. OPEN DAiLY 10 TO 3 A.M.- SUNDAYS 5 P~M.-3 A.M. coward ? Kepros seems, as the play progresses, to be reassuring himself and building up his cour- age until he can actually force himself to avenge his father's death. Draw your attention to the differences between Hamlet ~~~ni'a1~~~~edw~f hl:eratg:;,~ Eliw~~1l:iil':.l~·~!Jif'~·~*'-~~e~ .. ~\~~~~~~-~s~~s~rh~!#~~·~a~n~c~.~a~llt:~a~s~n~a~r~z~liiR~igll~c.~ death and immediately tries to ~ • • ' • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ,. • • • • • r • • • • ; • • • • • •• • • .- • • kill Claudius by organizing a re- volt against him. The third point that the Com- pany felt important was that Gertrude, Hamlet's mother, never knows that Claudius killed her first husband. While accusing her of incest and implying that Claudius did kill her husband, Hamlet uses the phrase \to kill a king.\ Gertrude appears com- pletely mystified when hearing , this. She cannot comprehend what Hamlet is trying to • say. When she dies in the last scene at the hand of one of her hus- bands ruses, a poisoned drink, , she still does not realize ·the truth. These three points, inter- . l ' ' . Sherman's Liquor Store DISCOUNTS ON CASE LO\FS Free Delivery preted as they were, made the nlay more convincing and force- ful. The P h o e n i x Company definitely has to be commend~d :. 720 Albany St. for a new and exciting interpre• tation of a three century old FR2-3465 Hours: 9 A.M. to 11 :00 P.M. play. / Fa·l~ St1 During re cifically, om 1 dously. ·Perso11 plans advocat as well as th <=' rnembet•s of tl1 viewpoirlt! ByE \Are you.t· teete<l?\ nee<! solen.1n rentiiH advettisets al, essity a new in the United the fallout sl~ be ·!1 ,stxong age we m;ust tion 1 not on!~ deli\ ,,r dde11 also in ou1· a initial imd~al Kennedy's cu of tile tmtiom gram inc!Ull'e: supJ.llyinJ.!: ol areat'-) ru e~ist as well as the shelter faC'ilit ion's le~umpt, il)g in the at red on public prog-r;.lln, whi arousing wo· again~t ,::uel h!Mts. I While scte11 in complete < immediate ei ul.timute e·fl'e,· best tltcans uf t'ru!· roit~enst will prm ide s pm eJ the im g.roulid zero. @ the Seielittsb diation lnfo1 y01,1 arc in an ened by fallot \'OU a;e heio Call makP th< l!fe anrl deatl ning cht'mi,;t s}i'eSRI'ri at th 1en;;e Coull(' desert area~. rainfn:l. wonl from woddwi ·hy, iw·;,h·nt:u lar do-it-yom Who, then, uf the npoc2 t10n theory ' ap]le!!I'R that the philosoph emotions ag; knowl<'dgE>. ' nuclear w:)1'· lightly and e· made to ami it'~· tlw fut u ~ Nev!l Shute \vould In ve Berttand Rt moral courag ing that sciet ~ on nuc:eal' worh:ers us' s tre1·1g:th in t his ··hetter-I paign is bas< that a nucle~ of our W0¥1< this opinion concur. In f: occ\1 pancy t• ter for LivE supported l from the 'C1 nia' s La \\·r<'n tory, one of 1 !iuclear weap locat~d in th :\lust~ In any ev< nuclear wt.ar out are wltl •· hit silly, if 1 to ignore tl com.panyi r~g one is of tl has reached can complete it would see as optimisti• take evel'Y · ~·serve· that >1 miracle be .s Couch of the Defense sh ; \ must be pat of life.\ 'there ~s Washington COM£&: AP State St. a

1961 Fallout Shelte'rs -li j Fratef'nities: NSA Pleases Brandt · : West B·.:l'iin :\1 a~· or W iII y S e a I ' Th K'\ II f I t ll t ' Bnrdt hu:-: \\'1 itto.:n to Edward ' :t' ,1'/J-~ ' o.- n._ ftVt_ 0- \'-' IJt(]NIJ'Ill~y_ .·'; ' e -- l • ers 0 n e ' ec I C-:t·t;, y'. Pt•·.idt nt \: dw l'l;itt··l 4t-fl If 1 -~~ 11 t}l I ;-<at•·~ '\at'\\\! .'twi< n~ ,\, .,._.;,,_ lly Henry Steelt; tion, t•XJllL'.':'i·.~ hi.,- plt-a.-'11<' :tt a This ·is .the second' in a series' can be no wotk. Fmtet·niti 1 ·s ha·ve lt:·<o\uti\n ··~·nd•· 1 ''1 in~ :I:.: ,.j,,,.;int~ i't:•t, .. d ~t;tt,·;.: \; \:--\- 'H·a.ir:o~:. society .. During, rece1~t ~on.thsl discussion of civil defense an,d, more spe- cJftcally, our nations fallout shelter prog1·am has inc1'eased tremen- dously. 'Personal fallotJt sheltN ~uildiug has .bPen stim1.1htted by thP plans a(jvocated by Pt•esldent Kennedy a-nd' Governor Ruckefellt>r as well as the Soviet l)nion's resumption of atomic te:;ts. Below- tw~ !nem~ers of: the SO!Iltomore class lool> upon thi;; situation from oppos- mg VIewpomts, begun by Henry Steele la::;t 1n•ek. 1 put us in thts kind of ~ociety. ln· \ 1 • t:H· bor•l•' '\ t :':' 11 I.a.·' : \\ Again :\lr. Steele deals with tht·lwd, the.> are the sut·it•ty ot L' 1 t- \\ •·~' 1 1 ''~'~\' 1 : •• 1 h:· _ 1 ,._.,J,,t 1 \ 11 l~ :...' t;·· ;,,~· ;...'lt-:,t -.t~: ..... r:u·tion to ;,.'\'' '-Itt• otlldt Ill.• .ll lit<.' l'uttl'tl :-;t;,t, ..... t·,· .\tJH·Jll'a ',\·-u.p:tthizc ~o ,uli' \.th th<· p•·•·Jtlt· ..• r: Bc·rlin ;.t,< tl:. ;. ' t'.;,t,- .t: ·I ~l!,tl. thPV ,,,. dl •:J: -· ldl··•l· > ,,·:d:~· ·.}d· tl·t~~ sterile; de- stars Etielll}e and in the How- his coun- N\enette ing au He is hool of !!.de ·to no- bliss- \Hap- jovial one is a1r of the uences, 1 leave of racters sultry Spring alooi- urd in that is no well- otional film ex- a.. at Dr. presi- tudent of ten s in- of long- such ad- corn- s, and dents. de· lea.d~ t• and them, ____j__ rnion College fratet·nity system. lUll c..dege, a!lli \\'C an• l<>!'<l'u [o> '\'' ]l'l~''•'d ,_, 1 ' 1 •' '·\'\'''\ :-'Ill- as he sePs it. The editor of this I at·qu e~ce l\ tlwi·r standard,; m:d •l•·nt ,···\'-' 1 '''' ;0: !t- :<' 11 _,,_: '':•·d• paper. welcomes any positive or: to tl.,·ir o<'\'t•ntet•n d'itf 1 relll att 1 - 111 ,.:, ,.·.iti··h \'::• h·<d tit;.- ,-, :·r 111 negati-ve .responses to l\1-r. Stel'lt•'s LH<k'-'· Ft:.l'tt•rntLiv,; an· air<.<id , 11 • th, i nil<: -.t · \' \\.-: '\n-t; ideas. intel-il'et and tl 1 us hu·ve waged a :\ladi~n:t, _\\·,,,.;,n-i.t, .-\u)~tH ~~~- 1 wat·. Cnfm·tunately this wa1' was :30. J11g a reputa-t ton as <-'nc• o t 1e • -' • ~ u. ~ 1 c Uniun Collegt• has been (•njoy- c·usily won f,.r ail tht•y needed Tht· h-ttet·, frnlll :.'-Lr<>r Hr;.,dt, 'I ·. On· ' . . f l \\'US th\ l'llet·g,•· of' .t]1u otu-'•ollt~. t!:tt<-•1 :-:, pto·r-Jh•-1' : \· l!lr:I, .•.. Jtl- .fi I :\\.t lllll<'l! (Jf' (\\ 0 1·,, L\lll'l'g nttJJt>J' 1 '\ fnlJnWS! I nest small c·ollt;gc•s in t w na- c • .• c- Ry E. M. Tracy By .Dt·.ic 'f:od'et· t'un. -It has h1•en cottllll<'todt•tl fur --Jtl~L Pnough to prP-Ol't'UPY tlw .\It·. 1-:dn-:n d IL <lat 1 ' Y \\ - t l t ·u · 1 1 ,.,,.,id··llt .. r tit·- l'rt:r, .1 .~tatt, \Are your ·loved ones pro- The recent hubbub over fallout ib ext t•dvnt !<.cull\' and h:gh l'al· s :lll'll ~ j\; 1 an enun• Y a JllOI'· '\ ·ot i.,n;, I ~~ .,,;, ,,, _\ Pro tected?\ need no l0nger be the! ~:helters is very disturbing and: ilwr ~tudPnt. It ha·s uel'll callPJ. a: !na ''\' 1 a >'ltuattOI_J t<r l'\fll' \·:th .. 1;,·; < \'·~;r ~tn-•·t suleEtm .. reminder @f life i\lS'Urance :, d'angerom;. for it seems to be a: \ha.IHill'\.] l·olleg-e\ a•Jd a tradi- i Ill!~· ~-,,'!Ply to twhttlch <_>nP !had t<l> J)P<tt' '\ .. Jt·. ~~· .. ,,.,-,.~ ... d t l f t f t ff t:.,n:.l ]•.,mt· f11t' the fim• a-rtf:. In- a< Jll\- \\'a» n11 IL' mw ledna · a \:'-'r 1sers a- o.ne·, or o~ o .n:'c·1 gr_ea e ·Ort to convince the Arp- teiJe,·t and euiture supposedly one, tht• hriwol woufd hal't' Jll'•!- l h:1\-,. n·atl \it't ~n·:·l p'•·• . .-w··· ~ss1ty a ~ew mdust1·y ts ansmg -:rtcu-n people that in the nucle::t!' cnnr ot::r i•:y \~:ulls. This is the vtdl'd bu~ ratlwr th•• •:xnl'l ant 1 yottr J,.tt<·,· ,,f l1 ~'·'Jllt-t•·'•· · l~H;] m the Umted State today, tl1at of' age, we can stil-l fight a-nd win a· !•:c·ure frr~m tlw outside. but tl~\\~'·. 1 hus, the en•att\'<' er:erg-~· and tak•·n n,.t;,.,. ,,f tht· \:'p• ·-i:d the fallout shelter prpmoter. To majot· wu1·. Most of ot1r lead·•ng 1 I 1 .,1 1 11 ·on st·tdt·nt In- 1 1 1 J:,., 11 h:ti··n: g, .. ::•;\ pa~.'< .1 !>:.· d 1 ,- be a .stL·ong nation in u nuclear newspapers and popular maga- w lell line mentions t lese t lings I t l'. . ' l h ~I '~ !Jee' t <'. ---~ --- age we must be a P1'epared na- · ·dnes have beefi g;, 'ng extensive f:~u~~~~~~·ttt:n~':~e. UJ~jf~tei'te·:~~~~~~ 1 ?,~ ~~~~~~d~ Y ~q.ue c· ,., anc rec 1 an-. tiou, rwt uuly in our uuiJ::ty to puhlidty f.•r plans t·• hui· 1 d ~IH•].' tlw>· a:'l:; \balam•t·<l':\ \f\~·, ;hu- •. h·:ttPrn'···~ hnY<'_ t:tl~Pn thh· '.leli•Pf' dPfen,;!\:e weapou,;, hut~,t~ls, and )·tav~ gro~s!y. ov.:r-p,,ti- 'en I fl'd .vou ~hat hot~• \:o,·kt·~·'?\ 1 '.'I.L'hiY :IIHl.!ta\·,,·_t.t'\ll'l'd !rom till· abo m our a:btltty -Lo sutY!I'e an lll.tted thea· nllue. l· \\ .c-xumple. t 11 I 1 1 'l I I ' II 'd I 'f . l Th· .-,. r· '·!'\\·''''· u·qf,,rtmw-t<'l\·.; ·'~ t' ,, c\n t\t... Jus t 1<' ,_tudenc:-: \.ll 1a n~< ear attan-i. •. l'l'o1 entJ .: l' m~t\azm~ _recent y featun·<l 1 . t 1 1 .. 1 . 1 , 1 . h .. H• h 11l Jtu tllll'l to ,-,n]llr.- t.p l\.~ll!led.y::;. cU!Tent. re\·:tulnattolt·l' a~l ar~1cl~ wmch dauned that .,, n•.t· . .,.,\ '•· ,.,, .. , '\n\' o, t1~ 1 t. 1 1 l' ' ol tile nuttoHull't\tl detcnsc pro- 1 -,1,', of,(!! Amerie::IIS·<'<>ll]d st!l'- '!t\lJ•'I:' '_,.,:,.;:. l'ni••n is nnw onl: ll'll.~ll .. n•,ll'l .. ;at•· \\llh tell- , , +' f ·f • · , • 111g: hlHo\·.... \\ lwrlt'\t•r tht':--l' :--o~c 1 ~,! gcam _ul<'luuc~ tltc. markmg, ~nd• ;-iv\ a nul'll'al' atlal'k, if fam.ilr- ·\' \\'''\· nt all ('I:J,ur:l-1 and Ill· £'1l!glllas an· ··hal!t·ng-£'d w'•l -,\ >U-ppl,\1-llg . <~l. ,u!LabiP _sh<·ttt·t- 1 .alluut .. ,!ll'ltcr;; _wt•t:p- built. ~u- Yll~<l'IIJ:tl r:lllg', . .'\HPr~rl:mre at' ··n·~l' id\'\· tlwv dn .. !; tit:.'·\_',::,. at·eas 111 eXISting puld!C uuJI<IIHgs.J 1.huL· on th~ «rtH:le do· lht;y 0 t:ttL'' 1°r·•··1'\\' anrl Plllll''l't' l\'tt f''Jl'l'\'' · '1 ·, · · a~ \\.'Pll a::-; the ]H'UJtH)Lton of llt lllil'- I \\ L Tt-' Lh.h figure \_\'Ct~ obt,'tl.llt'tl. no . (:(l'~\ f\(':' 1 :pr· ~ '! errt i~ tlE.':q·J \· ' \ L.; It.~.' I,~· (_ J'.\ t• r ·.·\ ,~;:l l~l:d· d lh ~.Lj. . . .. . 1'- 1 1 . . 1 ,t,,tLIJl.·r,t- otl :tl.. J 1 .. ,,l',,·l tt;\ . >lwltet· fal'ili-ties. The Soviet Cn· ln ~hl'late::>t reput'\ o~tl1e Hultftl'id' ·.'.''.':'· J•·. •:r·\.::·y 1'1:t~·a:·tJw ;,.n<- ;,,,nd t.,~-. 1 ·:1., r :it .. 11 \'g 111 ,;;:a~ ... ;, ion's tt ... •;.,u;Ilp~ion of nu('ll'Ul' tt·:-..t- . u.b-l''>IHHll'ttl't: on Cl\'1.1 .f)efen:-,e, ';d ,n~h d~..::r 1 :··: ... nn. gTnu:ns at'l' l'~dlt>d tlw Intt•rfl a~elldtv Ct ,Hl lilt; 111 fhc atmo~phcrc ha:o bflld'- .t \'\~ s-'Jnll'l_l that :1•; tl<-ad woul<l_,. 1 _\nln:~. l\~' .. \ !ttl!<' r~~·'r<'st.' o·il. Thi, on::aniz.ttion ,It;t.idt•;; till· 1•ed on JJUb!tr aert']llance of th·io l'l'SHlt unl.v trnm a \'en· sm·-11 •tt .. -\· 'll' ftnm. · 1 \' 1 ~~nc-d paP<'l ~. >'tu-' -, · 1 '1 ,1- 1 ,, )' 1 ·1' 1\ 11 f t. ·t· . • J • ~ .~ •• c: -- 1 . 1 . . .. · , ~ •L. t , • ~-~ ot ~~ r~ 1 t'l'lll .v.-... rn·ol-('rum. whtLe at the samettl'll'. thl'·k on l'Xrlus-1\'el.'· tmlttury tar- ·:nh .'\ ltl'IP or ·11\ tllllt\'<h.ml· It fum·ti-·ns \· i: ha;; t •. :tl'ousmg wol'id\\\'tdt• mdtgnalWI<I :.lllo ol al<out :Joo llll'\atuns For \ •lk 11'-'t' Po:•tl:•·p :·tnrlv out nf m- d.<· iJl' 11 '\ .. 1 .. 1, 1 . 11 · 1 t·,. 1 . 1 . ,., .. t \\t Tl I . : I - . . , ··\ j , •l . :t.:-; ttltl ,t·.·r~ agatnst ~u.·l! fa lout-Jll'odU<'lllg . ·.1 ::no'l IHl'g<rton att_ack un eon· .l'l'l's : ... :P <·1.111~. \ 1 .\ 011 . g-rac ''~ tlw <'ll·ativenes,; of tlw sl'i 111 ,,1 ,,t _ IJI:1st~. r·pntrutPd c-·nt<·r~ td pnpulatwn, ,tnd \\l..tt om.' ,lJ., ~tr.tl ft<'l'• 1 t-lw :t nl::JilllUill hut wlwn it c·onH'< l'mvide Protection t.i''\''amti>lt: dt•atiH>_would heRO';. prnfc,s~t·._ T.lm; attttud.' and l:wl; tinw ltl dt•fpnd its vPr~· <·xi,.,t 1 •nt·;. ' ,_ . ... . ; , , _ •.•.. _ , ( erta1HI~'- -'.~ a ;tmJOl' w:•J' the la-t- ':r. 1 \:c•Je~l has ~l'rn·d }\ l\'''l'l' and is t·hallengc tl lo ju:.;tifv it· . Wh.l~ ::;cl~llt.ltc expetLo ate nol tPr n_o~stbd;.ty IS llllll'P likcdv ,, 8 _ st.rnd.trrl,o on c·ampu,;. W<> do ]r,.:;- 11 wn l\\it:ons th. 1 F (' •: ··l· 111 ~ompkte agle.el1ll'lll as tu llll' rwci-ali•· sirwP ; 11 <]t.\'t.dtl'tl l.l<J' 111 J 1 ~ :tnd' t!v•tefnre L'XJll'C'I ]\~\- \Vl~a: 1 . t t ·,: t: · lt ·II. 'y 1 '·l' ':' ,. r f l' I ·' . . ' ' ,, . ·•l ... Ulll' lOll ., a It'\' tl <IHtnL'J.tate e! eeb o ,,a.st, l1~ hant IIJJ'V l<':ll'lwtl tlw 50-mrgaton -~ t01 h!amF\ Agnin tlw :tl''>II'Pl'\ <hurt . tl· . 1 r .. -: 1\ . · _ . ·' · uiLIIH:,le dfl·,·.b of _fallout, yt· the le\·d. Cllinciding; \\\ith the Life' '.;: fralt·rnitie~. · \ 'r;:,\. <' :,::;. ~,'' 11 ''\'' 1 ·, .. L.est mea-ns ul surVI\''tl thl'll' gen- · · I l' , . . · • I' ,u < .tnnot t L n• .. Hd '--·! . .' •. ·. . . ·h: _ 1 , 1 .,. _ m.agaz!lle mtt(' e. ·· 8. :-;ews and All cultural :tNJ. tnldkc~>.tal <'ll· that th·· i>»~ll'' lw brought int,. c;.Jl \: 11 L'd: 1 ,\u\. 1 ~. L .tt f \' 1 e 1 ·~ 1 .' \-\odd R~P'Jrl ,;ta-ted that !l(i'., _of ,le;,;,\'or~ alt· :-\rung]); il·flul'-111':-·'1-' tht• \1\'11, hut th• majority 11 f th•· \ 1 P 1 1 J\h, ': P 10 t 1 ecttonff \ 1 t.lo::;e the Russum JH'ople would he \\'1-P· h)' >;oc•al sur~·ount!mg-~. A stenle.· rampuH ran If rnouah J•eopl. ><pate• ·I e lltllll<'< •ate e ert' near ed t · t f \'I · · t J · ,.. , . d . . . I .. · · l\1' ·h , 1 ~ f . ou. Ill. en·n o war. J: 1e till- s•J~'Il' y ean pr\ lll'l' 1111 Ill'\\' <TO· \\\:11 1 t <Hr>'Wer~. the\' must hL• pro· ~~ ~m; ,· Z(_r<~. _ I~ mg • 1: .e .un ,~ pllr:rtton ts e 1 e~n:. All we han• to a! 1\'l' dfot-b .:·.,,- whe,·e therl\ i~ Yided. The st-ud~:r1t \Jo!ly l'an n·- ,n.~ _Stlelltt~t~ l. omnut~.e.L o.t~ l,~a-. ~o 15 8pend t•1·o \\'P~'I\~ in a. co::y no hn1w of tlll']ll'U\'ei~1L'Ilt. th•'r<' awai\Pll hon<'st leurning; ,!J<ttwn . ln[<>Jl1!,ttJoll . state~,. ll aHout ,.;lwller ef1UIPP'-'d w 1 th a --------------,---.-- 1 - - - ------ - >'OU an• Ut an at'l'a wh:<·h 1~ tnl'etlt· few of the late>! geiger ·eount<'l'~ :rr<':t \'!Jo l><t!Jfll'll t\ he lll fa-l]roltt i :-tagg.•ring cost. \Ne must realizP <'t1Prl IJy fallout only, the fact that and other .g-ar!g-et~. and when WP .'lwlter~. \\hen t!wy \t;\!JPI'!!:e. i th::t th£· t'o~t of an pffertivP shel- ~·ou a, e !,Plow ?r ubov<' gt·ound emPrge we ean rPsume our nnr- till':: \nil find cr~Jps euntamrnated.i' t-er program would n·quire >'al'l'i· r.u.n nwkP t ht> .~1.tfer<'l1CP ~Jet we.en mal life. (' 0 mmun:m 1 wil'l 'be de- The tt''llH'I'ort :.twr_l ~v;;tem would ftrPs and ~ardship\ whiPh h:t rdly ll1P and de:!tll. ~obel p;!z•·-~1'111· qtroyed and canitnlism will reign he dt•stn:yei!; . food ,.;hnrtage~ 1 : nr Anwncan would be willing- lll-rt~ l'l!L'I1l!St ~tllard I·;. ~-thby tt·iumphant. \\' •uld rc·:ult s:nr<> goods could: to .arr£'pt. It would destroy ou1 ;_tres~l'd at lh\ .. atwnal L ntl De- . , \ot he hroup- 1 1t from nne an•a to; 'nitre pattNn of life. It is de- .en.<e l'ounc,l Convention that Fantasy { nfulfiiiPd ·ttwth••r. Our t\'<':Jomy is ~o eom-llusi\'!• to think that tlw ],.,.,., c•o,tlv de,;ert an·a~. with their limited It should be fairlv nuviow~ that l)lex v nd <·on' il\''' of ::;n maltV in-: projert·.•tl Administratinn p ,. ~- rain i:t: l. woald he n·lati~~:.d)' ft·ee this fm1tasy nnno.t he fulfille!l. t ·•rt!e)ll'IHh·ltl c. ·m poll<' I' t s, · thnt : -:ram. supplemented hy shelter !1·on1 \\'u.t]d\\·i•!l' fallout. 1'.1r. l.ih- With all the uuhli<·ity about f·tJ]. '!w \\'IJ•,Je m:w 1 1'm· .. nnl'd r·ollupsei !Jilildin~ ran £'tmblP u:; to t-:urvin• hy, itw'd<·nt: .. !~·. ha' a thi!'l\' dol- <1111 ~hc•ltl'r~ on•• h.rt remains '( it. ha,;,. Pl'<•Jlo> \'\<'I'P kno<'k<'d' a nuelc•ar uttaek. ,DefensP SPrr<'· laY dn-it-yom·splf slwlter. rlenr. Falio11t Fh£'1t<'l's cannot ·Jut f1·u.n un,t.·r it. ll''\\'\n BaJJ. ':<ry '.\l<'~:un:l'·a h:t< stat<·d !h:tt It • ~ ·Jt'•.•: lit. i· . l ~- i : :.( : n II '. • I ! ~ i~ • 1)! • - 't . f \'!llll' .viti {'h. h:t,; ;.lt1· uly 1• pt,ltcd' ('ll tt. ;o-;irH···fdy :.·l'lut·.~. ·r II': 1·-:;,J .. d. \\'i!l.v Brandt <~;'.\ I- \ .- .. ·If< dt·ra- :,. 1\(1 '-'·-h•·nl~ ... ;~···l •., 1\;i~lh'J<ng , \:\ ~'o~t• -~· :-~.~-~.:. J:t ,;nd l·:-.:- (ll' -- .... !lg t>t •t' l ... ' !'! • lll .• tl ~t:.tl .!lhl' !l~t~i •fl ~ ;)l t' t i !t ......... . •-•.ll na- i \'\ :o~·:--.; ut' Th· t'P!ltpil tt··t~ \t ,.: ~ill' ft• .... t!IU- It \<~nt;·nl:P·I 11n P:tg·p 1; l Who, then, are the promoters g-ive a.'lY nreot,.rtion ag-ninst a di- win of the ~- \'. Timf's has esti-110 to lfi, million lives <>ould bP d' tlw apoealyptiP total-d<':::trur- t'ect hit. In Scientific :\lonthly of mnted that \i-f a third of the pop- PaVPd by the prog-ram. One won- 'f 'I> t1on theory oi· nuclear \ar '! It Derpmftr r HlllO. Harri~nn Hrown, ulation Wl't\P ],;Ih·d. t·hc· count1·y · rll·~·s hr~\·. tl-tr;~\ Hi milliPn wo'llrl appeurs that the moralists and nrofPssor of '!;Pn-chPmistry at \\'oul:l <'Pase to func-tivn as a ra- PnJny ltnng lll a post-war wa~tP­ <he philosOfJhers arc pitting tlieit· C:tlifor.nia InstiLute of TPchnn]. t:onal cennomir and sol'i:d unit.\ land. emo·tions against the scientist's 'lr.s. and James Reed made the On•' could tmag,nc the macabre To conclude, there is no alter- knowiPdgP. While the horrnt·s of fo!low,ing Phlsernttions regarding ~pC'l·.t:.tde that would follow, a~ n.~1tive to peace. We mu~t cnn- \\'hat makes ArtcarYcd Diamonds tho fnxorite of America's College Queens~ ~ ~~ nurlear w:p· arl' n·ot to be taken a po:nshle 10. megaton attael; on f:mttl.:t:< fbht l'lll'h o~hPr fnr food- tmu'-' our S!.'ar<'h f0r ppnrr w:th l;ghtl~· a11d eVPI'Y effort sho11ld he the city of Los AngPles. ''The and sheltPr. I hnnor. If we fai1, we have noth- l_nade to a\·ui.! ~uch 1 m pventual- ':!ast dfert would extl'l·min:Jt<> . • Attracts Profit·Seel;;et· 1 in~ to fall back on .. W:·. l'annot tt)', tlw future is not a~ clark ns \ trtually all but thn r.wst deeply ~ e;;caue our re~ponstbthttPS b~· Ne\-:1 Shute's On The Beach c:hPlt<'red livitW things within a _l'<!rhap;; the mo::;t t·eprehcn\i\\P cra11 lin~~ undnrr:mund and nnllinr: would h.we one believe. While r~uli1:1~ of five rnile\ A vw•d pro· thmg about the. :;h_cltl'r .program I the PO\'I'J's over our hPad~. Bertrand Ru~sell shows g-wat pnrt•on of thP arf'a'~ three and a and th~ way 1t rs bemg ~on· 1 ---- ----- -·- -- fm: the !noru.l <'llUI'<tg<' in publ.irly lf'r']Ue~t- half. million rm·~ nnd t:·ucl< would durted _ts the shad~ 1;1ntlertune of i ttlg that scient1sts rPfttsP to work be hfted and thrown ltkc grates- proftt-~eekmg-. Bmldmg contrac- 011 nuc: em· \l'eanons and that que Molotov eo\ktails ... T<'nf' ~ors and l'eul-estate men arc play- ' workei'S u~e the:r irulustrial of thousands of home.- beyond the mg on the. fpars ?f peopl<:; to in- i ,trertJ::th in the struggle for life blast area would ht'C'ak inh in- crease theu· busme,s. F m ther- ! . hi~ • b~ttet·-Red-than-dead\ ca!TI~ tense flame .simultaneously .. There mot·~, Pl'l\'a.t; shelters _are _be~und I II! patgn ts based upon the premtsP would be virtually no survrvor~.\ ~J:e eronomtc n:eans of most fam- that a nuclear war spells the end It .io; important to realize th::tt th<' tl_ws. Do the nch deserve to ~ur- 1 of our wlH'Id c;Yilization. With shelters now be;ng PPYiFng<'d will Vl;\c> mort> than the I_Joor? . Vi hat this opinion the scientists do not protect against fallout. not blast. \\'Ill _happen to the-c!t~- <tl\'.eller? concur. In fact a thiry-thousand Furthermore, it 's intc>re>'ting to lie 18 e_o~nted. out. 1n;me~tat~ly. · occupancY total -population she!- ':peculate about \'.'hat 1\'r,ulcl hap- The Hohfteld Cotm~;tttef! l!dS ron-, ter for ·Livermore Califomia is \Pn to those f:tt' from the hh~t rluded thnt. 0 .nly a :S20 b!llwn pr·n·, finest in cuf'!lom c1othin~ StiPP l ·ted b · t' t gram prm Hltng- for blu:--t ~hdt.·r o Y manv sct~n -ts s • ]' 1 d t f A · hum tl · '[' · · -,·.; f C ]'f . ion iH pur::mino- a p<'li<'Y·of nudPar t:Ulllt >e a. tqua e •H. mencan !!! • w 111\ eL \~ 0 i1 1 o1- 1 1 k . 1 \j . · need~ Tlus trpc of pr'O'rram I.. 11 ta's Luwr,·ncP Rurliutinn Lah!'ra-; J ac ·mHI • On Y au Jnformed anrl · 1 , 1 · i . · . · t h . . ';' tl· , tory, one of the nation's three top! :H-!equatl' 1 Y preparl'd popt·latinn \hult n:qtue us 1 ° UllOVd~ .et • •tuelear weapon,: researPh ernt~rs, I can aYoi\l panic while the United \\' o_e_l~-~on _ tllH l'l'l{l'Ollll • a· ~-_!':.~4~~~· • N\-::___Y_<>_r~ 17. ':.Y. l!!cah-cl in that city. ; States pur~ues n foreign poliry -<.>-<><><>-~--<>-<><>-¢-<>-<>-<>-.c-<>-><>-<><\\\\\\\-<>-<>-<>-o-<>--<>-<><>..... \l ...._. 1 , 1 ·lf non-apJwasement under pre>'- ~ 1 ·' u,;! ,,ot ~rnore fads • <au·p. A< Assistant St•ctetary of \ i In R'l~\ <?VPilt, thr prohl<'iTIS of D<'!'l'll\(' StP\\'Hl't Pitt.man. heRd of i ru·~ th r ' R t t ~ tr.uclear wwpon,; and nueleur fall- :lw ll\wly neated OffieE' of Civil l 11\YI!IO .. er If\ erro S es au ran . 1 o•!t are with us, and it S(•ems a Defense-- said, this program \is 111 \ hit ~illy, if not do,,;nright >tupid, an npportun.ity for people to t~ke to tgnore the facts and. the ac~ part 111 a vttal defe-nse program, companying dang-ers. Even if to dPmom~tr.ate the will to fal'e one is of the opinion Hwt man up. t•• the1'P1onnclear \\'fll'fare.\ In • has l'eacherl that point whC>re he th1s r?r:ttext, fallout she,Iters are ~an completely destroy his planet, a pos,tlve cleterent agamst war, !t would ~tern only ]ngieal tn he,~ deterPnt >tPcond 0nly to our de· as optimistic as possibie a.nd to ft>nsive military might. That na- . t::tke every possible step to pre- tiol} be~t able to sUl'vive a nurlear serve· that which might by some attack IS hest able to spring bark miracle be spared. For as Virgil and win the conventional aspects Couch of tl1e Department of Civil of such a war. Defense stated: \Civil defense As President Kenn<>dy said, WP \' mus~ be part of our normal wa.y 1 need not face the alternatives of of life.:- total ,-ictorv or total defeat. \We· 'I' -..f The:re is a general fee.Jing in 1 shall .neither be l~ed nor dead,. Wash•ngton that the Soc1et Pn- hnt ahvn ah.rl fl'ee.\ RECORDS OF COMEDY - JAZZ - ClASSICAL AT STQJDENT DDSCOUNTS Tapes and Diamond Needles Prbfessional Quality and Wholesale Prices !FOLK APEX MUSIC KORNER State Sf; at Corne1· of &roadway Phone FR 7-1112 ll Spedalizing. in Italian - American food Disrount for Union Students 20c on the dollar IPBZZA Free P::t· king Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. I L.ef 'em know you're alive Your folks wonder hoW you're doing and what. Why not keep in touch by Long Dis- tance. Phoning is faster than writing and more sanitary than licking stamps. NOTHING SAYS IT L:IKE YOU-R VOICE Ar·tually there are many rea<Jons. Artrarved diamond ringg mu~t m•·et traditionally high stCimldrds for color, cut, clarity and carat wei!'ht. Their awanl-v.-inning style,; are a delight tu the l'}'<'· And, they take all of the guc,;swork out of Luyittg a dLmwnJ. Every Art caned ring carries a written guarantee fur quality and permanent value' that's recognized and re· ~1wctcd hy fin(' jewelers from coa-t to coa<t. We think you'll · agn·e with America's lovely College Queens. . ~top in at your jeweler and he 'ure to see all tlw Pxquio:ite ArtearveJ diamond rings- the rings you buy with confidence and wear with pride. NATIONALLY ADVERTISED IN AMERICA'S LEADING MAGAZINES A ® rtcarved DIAMOND AND WEDDING RINGS · J. R. Wood & Sons, Inc., Dept. CP·21 216 E. 45th St., New '(ork 17, N.Y. J'IJ .... t·f' \'t ntl mr m••ir f.\!ct~ al1nnt rLunr'lnfl rin\s and ~'\\ ,~tfdint.: Cui,!,• f .. r-1\nle :11111 Cruum.~· :\h.;.tlJme t1f Jl_ tft·t t-•r ht·n:··t· h!!l \rh .. r\t·d J•·\\l:•:r. I am t•udt .. ~->lilO lUt tv cu\ t..•r hJ.nJlinc; •. mJ r·-·~t.tbe• No\'~---------------- ~-' ~ !rrss. ______________ _ r •- _______ C~L:n!y or zl·'\'~---- ~ '\'\--------------_::__ In Schenectady Vo'ur Authorized is ~ j~au~ 6 ~ce ~t GriRtdniiot & So~~s 1 66 J tsy St met Serving Union for Tltree Genr;rfations ~------~------~~--------~--------------- Patronize Our Advertisers

1961 ss .society sterile, de.- mplished stars EtiertiJ.e loof and in the HQw- his coun- Nenette au He is conv:e:r.t- of to his no- bliss- \Hap- jovial ohe is air of the e, .leave of ding sultry Spring aloof- surd in Spring- that surren•' is no r well'- instead film ex- College college at alf-day irs, Dr. presi- of ten es in- of long such ad- com, and de- lead- and them, M. .M. f.~iday, Ch;tQber 27, 1961 3 NSA Pleases Brandt Fallout Shelte'rs 1 Fr.at.e~nities: · ·I , I · West Berlin }1 a)' u r W i'll y t'nitl'd Stalt·~ :\a tiona! Studet·lt S • ~ . I Tb K=11 f I t II t 1 Brandt has written to Edward As··o<·aition. tt. r 't..AOn trO'VeYS\ .. . , ... : ·· ... ·e 1 ·ers 0 n e ec ·: ~~;::t~'~J:\:;,~,'.·;;~~~~ nJl~:l. ~~~H'A;~:~.~~i'::! ~ •. ,L\,l!'t~~:: ~;~·~~J:.:~:~~. ·;~·: 11 i!~~.\t)ii~~:: 'J By Henry Steel\! ttoll, l'Xp1c.'~l'•!.!: hh plea~llll' .tt a It . 1 · 1 I . Stat,~ •·1· .-\mc·rica .• yll.jl{tthi~e ~ 0 .. During recet~t I~on.tbs, discussion of .civil defen~e an,d, mot•e spe- · 'This is the second in ;:~. set'ies can 'be no work. Fraternitieg have 1 F'f ,u \] 11 ''j>ll< 't 11 \ 11 ~ t I'' ,. \'lllg 1ully \\ i rh th•· I\'\Jll•· .of llP rlin Ciftcally, our natiOns fallo11t shelter pl'Og:J•an'l h~~os tilci•ensed tl'eillen. hl•gt!i! by Henry Steele las~ week put us in this !dud of wcil.'ty. In \. .. 11 · ·-J~•r• ,'.'. ,H·t;-:•·• 11 .a,•. ;·nd : lld tb•i\ t': 11 t · :.•·d •hat thr>v dously. ·PerRon.al fallollt slwlter building has -been stimulated by the A gam Mr. Ste~le deals w1th the mel, t-he.1 are the .r,;ueicty ot Cn- \\ ',t <\ 11 ' :'\· ·. 1 h:· 1 ,., .. lu .. 1 \ 11 \ 1 : 1 : .. , 1111 • q.: ;.. , ·al:y t \'' v· 1 :_ plans advocated ·bY Presiqt>nt .{(enm•(l\ and Governor Rockefeller Cilion College .fl'atet·nity syst.Hn 101\ c .. rte.ge, aud \\e Ul'\ t'ut·· uJ' l<> \''\ P.\'~··d \!' Ill·· \:•.l·l\l'al. ;-;tu- I ' ll h S iJ ' ... \-'- 1 ' ·ll I' :,;r;,··:; ~.~·, ~L~· ~!1\'!l.,t as we as t <:>' oviet T)njon~s 1·esumption of ;1tomic tests. Below, two ns he sees· it. The editur .. '?f this! al'qu.e:;,·e t•J tlwir stamlard~ and.~ .. nt \ ··~·~t·c·~~ :•t It,-· H'/'''\' m•·t'l,.. 1 ,.,.;,, 1 ,. !llem~el'$ ot; the· r;;ophomore class look •upon this !lit~tation ft·om oppos-: paper welc01nes any pos1t1ve or h> tlwir S<'Vt'nte~n diff,.ret.Jt attl- tn~. \dwh w:•:· l1<·:d lt 11 ' ·'''''r at mg VIewpomts. !legative .reSIJunses to ~lr. Steele's: Ludc.;. Ftatcrnrt 1 e, <HL' an<.~iu 01 · th•· . l'ni~<·t. -JY, •·•t 'v\'... 'on·-i:., ., i i·. ·' i'\ ····l 1' 1 •· T ·\t ··f \'our .Ideas. intcliect and thus have waged a :Vladt:<on, .\\'t,cuibln, Au).!.lt•t :..!U- \'·''·\: ''\ :., :!1v ;~t•·. whi.,.h.has wm:. Unfortunately this war w:;s· 30;, . : ;,h <·:ulr n potll'cl' on tl. Pro Union C'oll'ege 1\as been enjoy- eastly WHil fur all they needed l h•· ll'ttC1'.ft·<•m.l\byol: llr .. ndt, 1 SiJH·,.t•·ly !'•>ll1·~. ing !1 reputation as one of the wu~ the energy of the students. datf'd ~·.r•t.-ntb\ 1 ' ··\· 1!!<,], 1 ''·\'' I ('i;..:1 ... d I \\'i-lly P.randt finest small ('Orleg.es in tl.1e na-· :\ot much of their .t'nergy etthel' :•,.; fnl_ln\\'s: . t B . E ~·'[· ·T B E · · '. t·· I· 1 t I d f -.iust enourrh to pre occ·up\ th :\Ir. l•.dwanl H. (,at'•·V i Til!: 1·~:\:'.\ i< \ ,.,,t!'t·dc•ra- Y • \. racy . y TIC Toder !on. · t 1a;; WE'll collllllPII< e or \ · \ · · ·.• e · · · . · 1 1 1· 1 l. · · 1 · 1 . · · ' · · 't ·1 f 1 1 h' 1 1 'tudents w'th •tn- emirelr almo · 'tt•,..u •·11· \ t t•· n:ttt :--ta ,., t.\\ •' ''l'i\··•>.t·•:· 1'. .)<Ill \\hon.l~ \Are your -loved ones pro-' The recent hubbub· over fa'llout ! s exrel l·JJ:t w·u ts am tgJ ca ·.1· ·I . >-1 ···t. 't. . · · · 1 '- \:·ltiom,l Stud•>nt \- ····:;,':•·11 · , ... ~..d ......... ;.:·. d t·, ft<tth.·rirw teete<l?\ need no •long·er be thel sheHers t's \'er·v dt'stttt'bt'ng <>nd .tber ~tudettt. It lm;:; been callt>d· \· 1n!l-t smi,t !'it ua JOhl! Ito C\Jlt:li• wl<t 1. · .. ,-- ('t•· '11Ul ''t·t.: ·l· \' I • d fl'f; ·,_; · '· .. \bahn· 1 11 •\ ··d t I' · 1e s:wtely tow 1<'1 one acto \'\' · ·~, ,.., '' :' \\.!!',,,,,,.~· ··'.ud•nt .tnd •·X- so et:t1!1 retHlll er o ·I e 1\IS\lfance •· Hl'rngel:ous. for rt seems to be a : . · ' <.:et co. eKe \-· 1 · a ra< I- • l' ·t .. . t 1 · 1:1 I> · · 1\J · < •• • ·• • • ·I\· ~ .:n;! t!:• ;: •'• ,., : r un na- advel·tisets alone, £or out of nee- great e. !fort to con,, 1 • 11 ce t·h· e A·m-.: t1\1u.I hor1w tor the fine m·ts. In- ,H Jt~~ \\a.\ no I-ll' .mw ectual e<~r .·. 1 ... '· 1 1\l.). essity a new industry.is arising·.· l. tl t! th . 1 . •• ·telle~t aud cl!l.ture supposedly one, the :school would ha.ve pro-. l h.t\<' J<•:.ul \\ttlt 1-!;rt·:·t pt,.,,\\,.,. '.: .. n:d a::d :nt•·•::at:\n·l· ),..~,.,.~of in the United St t td th t f t:l'tcan peope t·1ffilt ednuc.eaJ. t'll\'e1· ol:ir i'V wai'Js This 'i:; the vtded hut rather th<' .-xa<'l anti·· yntn·IHt•·r ,,f 11 :'<·J>\<-I,,h,·:· l!H;J \h•· tit'•'''· . the.fallou~ ·helt:/p 0 r~?t a~ .ufeJ,,.wecan~I·t gfJtan 1 wy:.a p.eture ft·,; 1 j 1 thP •• outsi~le but the>i,.;. Thus,thet•t·eati\'Pcnerg-v·<mrl tak•·n nnt:,.,. ,,ftlw \:'p•·•·t:d Th····•·ll•Pl<t.-lc'•t\:·:h•·••·.-tilu- . b.ea'stl·ongsPationfP uo~~c.lea~ ~e~~~p· wpear .. ·ods o· olnr. ea<'!ng .. when one memium;. the~e- ·thing~ ol t;niun student:; ha~ he~n ad~·•·H('<oluti··n: l!<·!::n\ PH'.''·\ h~· ~],,. tl'.,nt;nu\d ••n l':q\·'· 1;1 . . 1 , :fl. r . a r& an· popu m maga- t _, ,. . . quatelv snuekhed and re ·I · · age we nxust be a pl'epared na- · zines have beeir gi\·:ng extensi·ve • o st<.1ueut:s ett umon, scores of · 1 d ·' ., clan-. tiun 1 not only in our ahi1it•· t<1 puhlieilv f,.,r [Jians· l•• b.uild s'lw!-' laug-hter en:;ue. \ln ne 1 ~ . .' 1 ,. : 1 :, 1 .•. J· 1. I I' 1 f · '1. 'J h tlwv a\k· \h·d·•nr<·d\' \for who I.! Lin .. <~ lal< t.t.Pn t 11~ <e 1 nt;t' <P ef.'\3!·\:c weapons, uut .ters, an ,ave gro!<sly o\·er··e~ti\'·.. ft:l ',. u' 11 \. 1 ; · ... 1 ·k·.' .:,, ·1 vid<~ry and ha\'£' l·<'tit·ed from th:.' a so m our auil1ty to surn\·e an mttt'd the'l' Yaluc Fo.r ·nxanlJl]c · 1 •· 0 td 11 \ 1 ~· 10 ' e} · 1· t. · 11· ·r1 1 .... , _ .· · .' • . · . • ... . _, . 1 . 1 ~1c I\ P eon lt\t. 1· 1u~ t lP ~tudent~ lntttal IIUclt-ar attuek. .Pres1dent: L!fc magazHJe recently featured 1 '\'<.' r.··:-;nnnsP<. u·nf<>rtunatel:v .. h't\'l' j 1· 1 1 11 1· 11 1. 1 · · · K d ' . ,. . . . I . . l t I r t. f h. . , u . I<· ... conlur·· up ~nne .Y s. curre1_1t .. r~vtta tzatwH ... a~t. ar.ttc e w.luclj ,·I aimed that . ': 1 '' a• ~·'i:·.'~ ::. '•· ;''~\ 1 11 : 11 \ o · t .e 1 ;tn·ngth :..nd· rl'ta'liat•· \\·ith tell- of the Hat1otml r1Ytl defen:;e pru• 1 . ~~!'' of aH Amenean~. ,., .u!d sure ·· ~1'1!''1\ \•' II·'~· t llt••n I>' now :\\ i·n\' lJ],w:c. 'Vlll'tH·n·r tlw~e \ 1 gram tnrludes .the ma. rlnng ami: \'1.\'e a nw·lem· a.ttael< if fami!.v 'ill' lowt·.\t <•! all .uultvral m1d Ill· n 11 'i\ 111 . 1 .. 11 .,. ·lt•tll 1 g d .· 1 1 \ I . r· . -r., I .. r II - '· . :,) - II j< 1 A· l '\ ··~ , :-s ,- ·-· ( c (' 1 c '\l 1 {'ftll· supp·ymg o sUJtau l' s tel-tel' 1 a uu•t .~!wlters· \H't:.l2 hnHt. ~,.,. '\' PrclJal !'lings. ,.,ttrnr anre at <'I'<''<' i 1 j·, .. l.. tilt'\' dlit·l· tl , · · · · r ,.,. '· ·1·1 1 · 1 · · · d h. · '\ • · · · 1· t 1 · · '· • ]( '''ul'. a~·eas I'll ex1s 1ng pu J -t.C ·uu! tJHgs,,j: , ... tel·e .HI~ 1e art1ele · o t <;Y ::;tatl ... ·· ('.·L~~s_ ftn<. cone' r ~ t :at r:P'l~Y ·q rit~ 1 1,f\· l '\'t•r &fr.~ 111 nlakil1''\ :~1.· · as W'f'll :~s ~l1e pn>ll)Otl<ll} Dl, iJ,.,n!l'·. \li·T.. thts figUJ:e ':·as o'htaiHed, · no C'\'l' cw>hnr ·.-r ... •l·t I'. nc·:n·h: ,;tatc·m ·iJt.< at :tiL I n.-tl·~~.t tl:~·o: sheltet· fa('tli.lles. The ::ioVJet t.:n·r In the lale~t re.pur.t of the Hulifidd. 7 '' 1 ' 0 · Th·· lt'<•t:t~·~· 1'1<H';>t:·tn<· ::nd '·uHl t\''l·'l· ·r in · 111 1 ·,r• 1 :.,. ·: .. · . ' .· t' I . I . c· 'j . ' ' , .. lriou r. 1 ,• I ih . h ' .1. • () n··· lu.ctu()Jl turls . .re~Ul'll[ll'!Uil o nueear l<·;.;t-. :U ~-<''>lllllltltce on ~\'1 Defense, .. ', .. '' ··.~\~ !' 1 'n 11 • 1~~'\ 11 ;1'~ ar·c. calro>d tlw Jnterfr:tternitv ('nm · ll]g In the atmo~.phen~ has ::-vur- ,[ w:ts shown that :l'' <IP<td wuuld ;!• -t.t.l 1111 ~~. '''~ a ltttiP rnt••re;;t. ~ cil. Tlli,; l<l'J.;anfzation Je~·idl'>' the red on publ1~, ace<•,ptance of tin~ l'l'SU!t only fro1~1 a veq: .gm:dl at- A•·d:' ltntn. as<tgn:'<l J>a!'\''~·. stu·' ma:iur polidt·s for all fr, 1 ternit:es. p1·og-r,am. while at the game tllrl<',' tat'k 0~1 PXC'IU:+1\'ely 11111itary tar- d:nt:' clo little 01 no J·ndt\'!dl!Hi·l lot function 3 well when it ha;.; t<· · · · · \ ~· Tl 1 · : · \ ·• • t · · :c~ ea n '<'\I' agamst ,::ueh fa\lout•JH'odul'i-ng :t :Jnu') megaton attack on coil-' ~Prest. . !e l·mp las·ts '~ 011 grade,' tlte t•reativeness of th~ s<dwol ·at. arousmg wmldwrde md1gnat1Ull 1 . l!;d,.; ~( al·>uut :wo mc\alur 1 \ l~ur· '·' >J k .nnr m:1.fl!''P ;;tur\v.·nut nf tn· 1 j 1 •. ·,J·., It ,,. r 1 .. 1 t 1111 ·t\n. 1 hlnsts. . ~·pntratPd c ·ntN!' of population,· ,wd wh<tt O.lll, .r·an ~teal frPt<l .the·: a 111inimum ·hut 1 vhcn it l'lllllPs Pt•m·ide Protection ·ncscapahk deaths would be Ror;. fllO~P~i'<'>r. This attJtudP and l:Jcl: time to defend its n·n· exi :t ·n·, 1 Cer.tainl:r .. i~ a !lmjor ~\':'!'the !at- . •:f 111 :C'.l'e.~t hn~ sern•d to ln•.,·pr. a·nd is <'hallenl.:'t';l. tD \justi·f/ i~~ w·hile sc1enti!1c .experts rue not . ter Pf>ssd. 11 llty Is 11101 .e hkely ,,,_ :;tnnd.nd, on campus. W<> do 1<'\' ,,w 11 po~it'ons the IF C' 1, •• 1 .. in complete ag1eement ms to the pecially ;;in<'P ind.ividual l;<;mhs :N1d t. !wrefme 'PXJH'ft lPs>. W:ha~ rnt t\ 'ru;H'ti~ 1 , • 11 a·ll. _,.TJu,.~~.·< ~ 11 , imru<•<liate eiferl., uf blu:;t, the h 1 1 1 5 ·~ to I hme\ A tl · ' · '·'' · ' ave no•y .te<:<' }l't t tt; • 0-mcv;al~on .. · .. · .. 1 ', • 1 g-am 1P ap,;.wpr ,;h\t·t at<' af:·a:'rl to amswet·. ' ul.tim<tte dl'eds of fallout, or t:he Icv...J .. ( umc 1 J. 111 g ynt,h t. he Life. '· ft.ltf'Jm!.eg. . .\ !'<>w ]Jl'O]J!<• ra.nn•·•t d\I'J.·.·tt<l best rncan;:; uf. survi\·al, tlll'ir gen- t 1 t ;\; \.II 1 1 d L ' e'ral' euneensus i;:; that shelters . m_agazme ar. 1<.: e, '· :::;, . ews and .·. c·u lura :an tntdl~·ct ual ·<'11· t·hat th·· i:;~ue.; lJt' brought inl<• \\orld Re.purt stated thnt !)6',, of dcuvor~ .n ,trongly Jr.!'luerwed'' th•• oJ1<'11, hut th• ·tna 'torit\ ,,f thl· will pro\ ide protection for those tl R 1 J..l l · I !' · ' ·' spat eJ the .ipmwdiate effects near 1e · ussmn peop e wou\ he wip- · 1y .socm • sUJTOlllH mg~. A sterile mmpus can. If enough peopi<' g.roulid zero. Irving l\lichelsvn of ed. ou~ m. ev(•nt ·of wur. The rm- . S~fll'lY e•n pr:JtlHce n\ llf'\\' lT':,''· \\yilt <tll:<wers. they must he pro· the Seielltlsb Committee on Ra- p!rc!!tlon IS e!ear. All we ha\'1.' to <J.l\'e dftods ~m· when· then· 1:' l'l<led. The student body can rl'· ~q Is spend t•vo wePks in a co::y no hone of itnproY~1~1ent, th~re awaken honest learning. diation lnformtrtion states: \If . all out slwlter equipped with a . . -.-- ----- - .- -- ·---- · --- - - · - you arc in an area whi<'h is threat- few of the \ate<;t geiger count<'rs :m·a ,,·.l~o happen t\ be m fallo11t I >tag;.<t•nng coRt. We must realize eni>d hy fallout only, the fact that and other gatiget~. and when wc ~h<'lter.:. \'hl•n th.-y l'~Wre:e.lthd tlw cost of an effective shel- you ate below or abov<> g1·ound ern<'rqe we can rPsume our h{lr- the:; will find cr?ps contammated.j te1· program would n·quire sacri- c;lll makP the clifferPnl:'e between. mal life. (' 0 mmtm:~m wil'i he tie- The tt·amport:,tJOn system \\'ould frcPs and hardships ·which hm.dly life anrl deatl1.\ Nobel prizP-win- strayed and canitalism will reign, he destrl!y~d; food shortage,;! :ny Anwrican would be 'willing ning- cht'mist Willard F. Libby triumphant. · \\'Alld re,ult sincc> goods eould I tn acrept. It would destmY our. ::;p·es~<'rl at th·~ l'~ational Civil De- . r :tot be ht()'Ug:ht from o~e arPa· tn 1 <nt!re pat_t~1·n of life. It is de- 1en;;e (.'mm<'il Convention that Fa.ntasy lnfulfilled :wotlwr. Out· e<·Pnomy t> so eom-llusl\'(' to tnmk that the IPs~ rostlv dest>r·t an~a~. with their limited It should he Jairlv o!J,·ioH~ that plex and rom puse<l of sn mallY i.n·. J>I'Clject•.'d .-\tlminist1·atinn pro- rainf<t:l. wonld he n·latindv f.tee t)li,; funtnsy (':lllnQ.t he fulfilled. t:•rdepenllf\Jll c.·mpnnents, 'that '1 ~ram, ,;npplrmentPrl by shel'ter from \\'otldwidP fallout. l\1r. Lib- With all the nuhlil'ity about fall- •Iw wh·>l~ m~l<:hinP ,·ottld <·ollap;;e building can enab!P Ui' to .-ur·\·in' 'hy, itH·idpntaily, ha~ a thirt~· (Jol- ont sheltPr~ on<> hct remain\ :r iL hwic pwps \•·ere l;nork<'<l! a nurlPar attack. Def.ensP SPcre- lar do-it-yourseLf shelter. clear. Fallont sht>lters cannot '>lll f1·o•n untle1· it. Ham:on Bald· 'aiT ~lr:\am;P'<1 h<ts statPd that Who, then, are the promoters g-ive a'ly nre>+Prtion against a di~ win of tile N. Y. Times has esti-11'0 to 15. million iives could be uf the apocalypti'r total-d<>f<trur- rect hit. In Scientific Monthly of mated that \i-f a third of the pop- ~avcd by the program, One won-. tton theory of nuclear war? It Decemucr l!JilO, Harrison B1·own, ulation wer<' k:lled, the country. <lt·~s !1<~\\: thr:•n 1fi millir>n wo•tlrl appear:;; that the moralists and nl'o~Pssq~ of _g-eo-chf>migtry . at wo. ulrl rPase t? function. as a ~-a-~ f'Il.J<lY IJnng Ill a post-wal\ waRte- the philosophers are pitting\ their Caltforma Insl•tute of TPchnol- t;onal econotlllc and soeral umt.\ land. . emotions against the scientist's' '1f!y, and James Reed made the ·one could imag;ne the macaln:e To conelude, there is no alter- kno:wi<-dgE>. While thP horrorR of following o@servations 1:egarding 'spectacle that :would follow, as· native to peace. We must con- nudear w:,r· are ll()t tg be taken a pos!shle 10 megaton att-ack on . fnmi'lit:s .fight earh o~lwr for food I tinu<' nur search fnr pear!' wi.th lightly and every effort should be the ctty of Los Angeles. \The and sheltl'r. i h0nor. If we fai'l. we have noth- made to ami<l such an eventual- h~ust rffeet· wnnlrl .extc>rrnina.tP , Attrac:ts Profit-Seeker ·I ing to fall back on .. \Y:, cannot ity, tlw future iR not aR dark ns Virtually all but th\ most deeply :.S 1 e,:;caue our responstbJhtllc,; by Nev'l Shute's On The Beach .-:lwltered living things within a _Perha:Ils .the most reprehen~i,:e · <T:1wl!nr' undnrground and pulling- would h:rve one believe, While . radiu~ of five miles. A good pro- thmg ab'out the shelter program! thP rnYers nwr out· head~. Berttand Russell shows great port:on of thP area's three aml a and the way i.t is being con-i --- --~--- ·- mural couragP in publicly request- half million cur~ and truck would ducted is ~he shad¥ 1:1ndertone of i i11g tha.t scientists reiuse to work be lifted and thrown like grotes- prof1t-seels;mg. Bmldmg contrac-. on nuc:eat· w.eapons and that que Molot()v co~Idails ... TPni' ~ors and.t:eal-estute.men arc pl~y-: workers use their industrial of thousands of homes beyond the mg on the fears ?f peopl3 to u-1 stre1·1g:th in the struggle for Ilfc, blast area would br·eak intc> in- crease then' busmess. F urther-1 his ··better-Red-than-dead\ cam- tPnse flame simuitaneously. There more, pri\'a.te shelters .are !Je~·ond I paign is based upon the premise would be virtually no survivors.\ · ~J~e econonuc I~e~ns of most lam- that a nuclear wa:r spells the end lit is important to realize that thP ll~es. Do the nch desen·e to sur- of our wwld civilization. With shelters now be;11g f'l'Yisag<'rl. will vtye mort> than the jlOOl'? Wha; · thjs opinion the scientists do not protect against fallout. not blast. \Hll .happen tQ the--c!tY dw.eller · • concur. In fact a. thiry-thousand Furthermore,. it is interesting to He IS r.o~nted out. unmed!atPl)'. ; occ\]pancy total -population she!- speculate about what \\'ould hap- The Hohfield Committe~ !].as ron- . .ter for Livermore California is \ell to thosP far from the blast eluded that. o_nly a $20 bdlwn pro- , for the finest C'tt!'lf:om c1oth1nd \ and 'furnisl1ings supported ·by man.v scielitists . . . . gram provrd1ng for bla><t Rhelter f I f I cDultl he adequate for Amel'icnn l:orn the 'Cniver8ity of Califor- ton IS puysumga pn I.CY 0 nur ear d rh' \ ma's Law'J'Pnce Radiation LahN·a- ·, blackm!!..ll. Only an mformed and nee ~. 15 ty.pe of prograPl 1 1 l 1 would require us to burro\Y th' · tory • one of lhe nation's three top I ac equat~ ·Y p:epar~' popt· apon whole nation undc>rground, at l4 E. 44th St. • ·New Yorl; 17. ~. Y. !ruclear weapons research cPntcrs, c•~n m·o1U punrc wh1le the Umted _____ _ locatPd in that city. ' States pursues a foreign potiry . , , j of non-appeasement under pres- :\lust ~ot Ignore i·acts \lll'e. As Assistant Secretary of f;>-<><>-<.>~ In any event, the problems of D<>fcm<P StE'wart Pittman. hearl of nuclear w~apons and nttclear fall- . ~he newly created Offire of Civil out a,re with us, and it seems a Defense·- said, this pl·ogram \is l 1 . Mother t Restaurant . 1 !!I •· hit silly, if not 'downdght stupi£1. an opportu1lity for people to t~ke tQ ignore the facts and the ac- part in a vital defe-nse program, com.panyit)g tlanwers. Even if to demonstrate the will to face one is of the <minion that man up. to thermonuclear warfare.\ In ~ • has t•eached that point where he th1s C?~text, fallout she.Itets are can completely de~troy his planet, <\ pos,tJve deterent agamst war, it wou!d _sc~m only logical to be , a de~en'n~ ~Pcond <;nly to our de- as optmustlC as possible and to fens1ve nulttary mtght. That na- ~ . take every po.ssible step to pre, tio!J be~t able to survive :3: nuclear serve. that WhiCh might by s_ome attack ,IS best able to, Sprmg baek miracle be .spared. For as Virgil and wm the conventional aspects Couch of the Department of Civil of· such a war. Defense stttted: \Civil ·defense As President Kennt'dy said, we m:us. ,t ~~ patt of our normal way 1 n. eed. n?t face the alternatiws of of ~Ife. total Yrctorv or total defeat. \We 'rh~re ~s a general feeling in sha·ll neither be Red nor dead, Wash,ngton that the Societ Un- hut nlivP anrl free.\ · RECQRDS OF · COMEDY ..- JA%2: __;. CLASSICAL - FOLK·. AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS Tapes and Diamond Needles Professional Q.uality and Wholesale Prices APEX 'MUSIC. KORNER State St. at Cornel' o.f Broadway Phone FR 7-1112 I 1 .. Specializing in ffofian - American food Disrount for Union Students 20c on the dollar fP IZZA F.ree P::~· king Dl 6·9554 111 5 Barrett St. I Le,t 'e:m know ' . you·•re aliye 'four folks wonder how you're doing- and what Why not keep ,jJi touch by Long Dis· tance. Phoning is faster than writing and more sanitary than licking stamps. NOTHING SAltS IT LIKE VOU.R VOICE \nmt makes Artcarvcd Diamonds tho favorite of America's College Queens~ Actually there are many reasons. Artorved diamond rings mtl':t meet traclitionall:y high \tandards for color, cut, clarity and carat weight. Their awan1-winning styles fli'C a delight to the eye. And, they take all of the gue><swork out of buying a di.mwnd. [, ery Art carved ring carries a written guarantee for quality and permanent value' that's recognizrd and re· spected hy fine jewl'lers from coast to coast. We think you'll · agree with Amrrica\s lovely Ct~llege Queens. ' Stop in at your jeweler and be sure to see all the exquis·ite Artcarved diamond rings-the rings you buy with confidence and wear with pride. NATIONALLY ADVERTISED IN AMERICA'S LEADING~ MAGAZINES DIAMOND AND WEDDING RINGS · J. R. Wood & Sons, Inc., Dept. CP-21 216 E. 45th St., New '(ork 17, N.Y. PI('~~::-~ ~cnJ mr mnre f ::t('tc: ~bout rli.unnn•i rin~~ and. \'\\'cdtling ·Gui.J,~ for' Bode and Gruum. ~· Ah.o name nf n~.-·.Ire:-1 {nr };··m··t••\\ u) .~rlcan.PJ J .. \\t lt;r, I am l'uclo.:->wg lOC to cu\er lt .. wJling ..tnJ pu~t..1ge. Nam0 ____________________________ __ ;\r!,Jress _______ ~-------- r: \1--~-----Couoty or Zen\---- ct.''\·---------------------~-.:.._ In Schenectady Vo·ur Authorized Artcarved Jeweler is <iJ )laut~~~e Rg Grauba 1Gt & ~o~1s 166 Jay Street Serving Union for Three Genc~rfations I I --L.. . . . ,.Patronize Our Advertise·rs : :

4 Friday, October 27, 1961 Comply With Letter To Draft Rul£s Th Ed• 0. E. Pollock, Dean of Men,. . . e Itor in a recent interview stressed that it is very important for· Un- To the Editor of Concordiensis: . iun College ~tudents tu l'Oillply l am sure most of us are, with selective service regulations t·ognizant of the basic differences such as registering for the draft between the American and Con- within five days ol the eight tmental philosophies of under- birthday, and completing f~>rms gr:,jduate education. Under the properly and promptl:,.·. AmerJcal! system classroom study Draft boards have been reql!est- vel's~s mdependent study pre- d t d .. •·t 1 .. ·t ·h ·h . uunnnates. t. o n.w. 1!'::; men v. u uve Whil • \L' · · • . •. r.ut eun1pliud with ,;elt·di\u sel'vicul ha, b E: j 10 ~ 1 d .:~~.ce..;:t t ~:a~d rrgulations. :\im1y lllt>H on ,·am-· !? • een s 0 '\ Y II m., o .ar pus are bL·ing clm;sified IA en.•n ~he Contu:ental a?proaah to hi~h­ thoug-h they are in college In \·' educatwn (througl). the .est~b­ m·wy cu::;e::; they are 80 du::;s;fil.ld .!Jshment of 56's, the !Jberal~za~wn b,.',·au~l' the• lvml draft bo<.uds J.u ofn the a~t~~dance rules ~or JUlllors nut know they atl' eo liege .::;tu- a d sen.rot. ,etc.), I c.an m no way 1 •nt. equate Ill my own mmd the estab- < l s. li,hmcnt of a review period with. .:.\lule student::; who have nut either the enlightened Continental · re;ujy done ::;o may reque::;t the system OJ' our present American office of the Reg-istrar t:u :supply system. Seluetive Serviee System furm lOU to their lund draft boards. T<> me, the plea for a review· This form i::; au ufficiul stutt!- pet·iod smucks of an ·odious tend- llll'J.t un the part uf tht: in,tita- .\n<'} amollg certain segments of the student body to be more con- I ion that the man is eurrently l'll- l't·ned with grades than with lolled in coliPge. learning for lea·ming's sake. Jf a Council Meets Ketzmen Lose To RPI, 20-37 RPI handed the Garnet cinqer- men a 20-37 cross-country setback last Saturday on the Bngineer's course. The defeat was the · in as many starts for the visit• ing Dutchman. Bill Gazda, Tom Schelling, and; Jim Langdon ran 1-2-3 for the \\'inners, Gazda's timE! for the 4.4' run being 25;24.2. Wayne Laver- ty was fourth to lead the Union effort followed by improved Joe· ·Capagni. Jack Huels was 7th, Andy Ward lOth, and John Sep- · pies 11th. Tomorrow the team will' meet, Colgate on the home course. This .. week has seen improvement by · both Jack Huels and Joe Capagni .. This, coupler! with Colgate's re- cent loss of two of her top men, give the l!nion underdogs a chan<'€' to end a string of losses , which has extended over the past two seasons. Ft'eshmen Win Thoug·h starting the When a draft board receives a ·student rnn1:cientiously does his C'ompleted SSS form 109 from the work tht·oughout the course of the eollegc, the bmml is likely to year, fout· rlays of concentrated grant an autnmatk l'ollq,:-e dt.fer- !Jreparation (eramming?) for fi- m~nt. It ~hould ht! noted, huw- nal ex<mls should not significantly \''PI' that any per~on reteiving a alter the level of his prepara- f'olleg'e deferment extends his tion. rlraft liability agf' to thirty-five Similarly, the need fm· a formal slowly with a 15-47 loss to Ver- mont October 13 and a 20-37 loss At the first meeting of the to RPI last Saturday, the fresh- Dormitory Council held :Y.I:uuday, men cross-country team Wednes- Gerald Spielman was sucte:Ssful day invaded Massachusetts to de- in his bid for the presidency. feat Lenox 22-33. Steve Gene Greene and Robet·t Bullard finished second in the race and }'Par..... r~ading period is negated if \ad .. -----~-~---- ditional assignments ~rhich, in the wen; eleC'ted vice-president-treas- first for Union closely. followed UI\el' and secretary, respectively. by Ketzmen Larry Newton, Gary Thert• will bt> a l'olitical Forun1 0 pmion of the professor, would meeting next Tu<>~day night, Oe- :-t·r\·e tlJ draw the course together\ tober :n. in ruum :m.t of Bai!t•r are JH'o\•ided as outside readings Hall. The meeting- will start dm·ing the course of the semester. promptly at R:OU 1'1\1, Thet·e will It is curious that the current be speaket·s from both the N e\v g-round swell of interest in a re- York State Young- Republican <Jl'- viPw reading period has stemmed Jranization anrl the NPw York: mostly from these students, wh<J ~tall· Young DPmoerat organiza- ha\'e frequently eamed the appel- tion. They will be presenting- lation \grinds\, and have general- theil· partv's opinion of the fint ly madP positive contributions to year of the Kf'nnPdy Administra- thP le•·pJ of the all men's index. tion. E\\Pl'Vonf' is invitPd. He- Thul', nre thP motiYations behind ft·p,;hments · wi.Ji' be ,;pJ'\'e<l. this ririn• truly to gain a mean- -··-~-----·----··--- --- ingful rorre!ation of a semester's wo1·k <>!\ are> thf'y of some meaner ilk? Resolutions passed dealt with ::\1orris, and Toby Wheeler. The One of U1e mainstays of last . .Y~ar's basketball team, Ed Tyndall, g-rass-roots issues. The body caHed Gamet number five man was taking a jump shot over .an RPI defender in the game played in for earh triple room to have Jesse Prochilo, ninth overall. Memol'ial Field House. John Pelton (10~ and Dave Santos (20) move third set of drawers in North The .frosh squad, one of the into position to help o_u_t_T_y_n_da_ll_. ------ College, pencil sharpeners on largest to be assembled in recent By Andy Fogelson every dormitory floor, and years, will also meet Colgate here additional soda machine for West on Saturday, preceding the Var- Her~lding the early coming ·Of the Schenectady win- College. sity race. They should be up for ter, the J961-62 version Qf the varsity basketball team has Spielman announced the fo1·ma- this one, their concluding d h hf 1 f' C ' tion of several committees at the meet, in an effort to even their already IJeen working out un er t e watc · u · eye o oac11 session. The Rules and Reg-ula- won-loss record. Carl Witzel. With a st:mng • tions Committee has the power nucleus of returning veter- for Weaver, a s~arting ~orwaFd. to ,pass legislation pertaining- to ans from last year's tea.m Harpu: also has 1ts startm~ f1ye dormitory rules. The Social Com- Vermont Stops hi h il d 5-15 ' returnmg. And Vermont, \Vlth Its mittcr will C'ontinuc to plan and W C comp e. a . r:ec- Little All-America candidate Wil- roordinate the social activities of Or<:l., Coach W1tzel IS ho:pmg liam Beckton, should be stronger ONE DAY SERVICE Campus Cleaners All Work Done on Premises PICKUP AND DELIVERY 527 Noll St., Schenectady, N. Y. Opp. Union College Phone EX 3-5472 me.ms;a the non-committrd students. The F h G •dd strongly to bring the t€am than ever. Judiciary Committee, whose func- rOS rt . erS through the season with at ,One loss that .the Witzelmen Leslie D. !\farrus, '62 tions are not yet fully defined, is 1 least a .500 mark. will fe~l strongly 1s Bob Holl1;1nd, tt_J as~ess fines to. students fo1· The freshman football team has ·who mil not be out. A combma- A('rording to a reeent article viOlatiOns of dormitory .. rule~. completed one half of its four With John Pelton, Dave San- tion of football injuries and lack l m the• NPw York Times, tea is The. purpose of. the DoJ'mJt.ory game schedule to this date. Al- tos, who.J.ast year br<Jke the Un- of time will remove one of the bP]iPYPd to l'<'liPve the effects of <\;oun<'. 1 1: ~~ state.d m the ~onst.Jtu-1 L~ough past de~eats d~ not pro- ion College single year scoring Garnet's top rebounding threats. Strnntium 90 in thE' body. An tJon, Is. to umf.Y .. a~d : 1 eptP~el!t 1 v1de a very. tmpressn'e back- record, Ed Tyndall, Ed Gentile, I nrgani<' rc>action with the stron- tho_sl' Rtudents In mg .m dot!!ll-~ ground for thrs report there are Tom Finll-egan, and Roy Waters \eiDdAeVscEribSeAd Nn'!:~eS a-s ~oji~~ ~~= I tium 90 rPduces the concentration t;>rJes; to ~orward the aims, S?Cial numerous bright spots to dis- all back for another try this year, u of this dPadlv element in the llfe: and Ideas of the dormit?I'Y cuss. Outstanding performances Vnion's b~sketball fortunes ean er, with a tl'emendous will-to- 1 borly. · resalents: ar:d to n_r~mote rn!- by stalwarts John \Borneo\ Wil- only go in one direction-up. win. Because of the offense used, d' d b J provements m the livmg E'ondJ- son an always dependable power- A lot of the \team's success or he gets a lot of screens, and This w.as . Jscovere Y ~p-1 tions for the dormitory residents.\ hou'se at center John Wilcox and failure, h()wever, depends upon scores more than his share of I Jn~ese .scJf~nhtJsts aftehl' htJrl·eabtmg ~ MPetin~s arp he.Jd every other Ai Panoff, sur~-handed ends, and the soph()mores. Many of the points. With work oh his de- l ,lpa.nese Js el'!nen w o a een Monday, m the thn·d floor study t m' d Joe StevetlS quarter- team's defEats last yea.r were due, fense and passing, Santos should nvposed to fallout I R' h d H II d mas er Ill . ' d lop I'nto one of the truly fr'ne c ·' • 1 room, a.t ~~ mon a • an are back, provide a firm basis for an at least in part, to the treruen- eve> TAKE TEA AND SEA! open to all mterested sturlPnt,;. optimistic outlook for the com- dous lack ()f height of the Dutch- players in the ar•ea. The only con- !iii! am m H !IIIIIJ !ii!Ji :: Casually yours ... The Authentic Arrow button-down shirt has a perennial appeal to the discerning college man. This University Fashion favorite has the famous Arrow contour tailoring for a slim, trim, tapered waistline. In basket weave striped oxford and solid colors of your choice. See your Arrow Retailer; $5.00 and up ~RROW_;_ From the \Cum Laude Collection\ llll!l ! Styling ... in the classic tradition From the Arrow Cnrn Laude Collection comes the perfect example of authentic tradition'al styling. This luxury oxford is offered in subtle British stripings tailored with button- down collar and box pleat. Whites and plai.n colors, too. ' $5.00 Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. PHONE FRanklin 4-9157 m:: u cern at this time is that Dave ing games. men. Time and again, nion gave will be a marked player on the I The overall line play has been away two ~nd three shot to every court, a fact that could be turned \'ery good, and if the temporary one that they took. Coach Witzel into a definite advantage with lapses that were prevalent in the is looking to four of the SO}lho- smart ball-han<lling. Vermont c:ontest are a v o i d e mores, especially, for' help this against Rochester, the Garnet year: Tob::y Lustig, Mike Hol<J- JOHN PELTON- Despite the frosh have a bettet· than even waty, Jef£ Fullmer, ,and Mike fact that Pelton is not as fast on chance ...to win. Sahi•, Lu:stig and Holowaty his feet as Santos, he nonethe- 1 InJ'UI'l'es to sevei·al Dutchmen s 0 p ~ - w~ h uld r ~vl'de the much n~ded less is the leading defensive play- h I d th b d ·er on the team_ His excellent out-' early l ·n the last game upset sev- e P un er e oar s. C h nr 1 d h t t side shot and fine teamwork make eral deep .penetrations into Ver- oac \itze suggeste t a a him an excellent backcourt com- mont territory. The Wild Cat de- least three of the first team bination with Santos. fense could not be scored upon berths are wide open, with <Jnly rl 0 spite fine runnin~ by the Union Pelton anci Santos virtually as- ED GENTILE - Even though backfield, especially Joe Sawyer sured of starting assignments. Ed played no high school ball, he and Vic Fazi(l. A '1 effective pass- With the t:ype of offense that the has come on quickly. Big and ing attaC'k wns ~lowed up notice- Dutchmen use--a rotating 2..:3- fast, he could provide help under ably when QB Stevens was side- any of the other men out for :the the boards. lin eel with a. muscle strain in the team stand a good chance. · ROY W A TElliS - Roy is an- first hfdf. With hi• rPturn among If the ·Gar11et do improve on other big boy that could help nthPr~. rt br-lsterC'd team should last seaso!l's record, it will cer- with the rebounding chores. He give the Rocheste>r frosh a good tainly not be due to graduation works hard, possesses a sound battle, P~periallv if ahi!ity. desire, losses inc11rred by the other knowledge of the game, and has :md lady lu<'k ~II jell eaT!y. teams. Many of the schools that a fine attitude that could make a defeated Union last year have marked difference this year. their team:s back nearly intact. Should he learn to control his size Rochester, ·who handed the Cage- and weight on the floor, Coach m~n ;~ ·loss at R.o.chester last year Witzel Will re)y heavily upon him. and later :vovent on to the NCAA TOBY LUSTIG - Toby has regional tovrnament, has the en- the size, the ~ttitude, and the tire starting squad back. Wil- ability. The ouly question is how Iiams, vyith a victory over Roches- fast can he learn to adapt to the tel' in that toumament and its unquestionably faster game that subsequent reaching of the seriU- the varsity squad plays. D&l AUTO SERVICE 1'372 UNION ST. Brakes, Tune lip, Wheel Alignment and Balance Dl 6-4895 Dl 6-9644 Headauarters for • UNDERWEAR finals, has its team baclt except MIKE SAHR - A wealth of natural ability and a fine out- L U I G I ' S ly j;o the cagers' chances. Defense seems to be the place where he needs the most W()rk. 1 side shot should contribute great- RESTAURANT 5ptSciali:r:ing in Italian-American foocl 1125 BARRETT ST. Schen~ctady Dl 6-9744 I 0% DisC'<lunt to Union Men ,Enioy Our Sizzling Steaks and Chops These are only some of the fel- lows that should help this year. Ed Tyndall an<! Tom Finnegan shoUld provide a fine touch in the backcourt, along with Jeff Fullmer. Mike Holowaty has - been called by some;! of his teammates the most improved player this year. If the sopho- . mores can come through, and the team jells early in the season, .things can look very br~ght for this year's hoopsters. DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118- '120 JAY STREET Ur Pike Nine Proud p Longest victoJ team meets~ Alexander F hopes of irr 2-2. slate. The Dutchr · season record downing a fi .Poly squad, 1C second periocl thorough chec! tir.ed football torians proclai be the first Ul a three-point« years, mark;in~ distinction m touchdown win Union open with a flurry run the EnginE Quarterback I ered for a 37-~ the :first tim their hands 01 a 78-yard driv to faze the sl and RPl pla football the game. The sl of Dick Lund! Cherry-and- Wl contributing f~ showing, The had a two-wee well-acquainte' tern of play ' by the Monda backs around coach Joe M: swered \disap] with the prec mentary: \Rl moral victory, score.\ Garnet The Union way after a \C han\ act by l' wald under ar: · the first quart skin finally S« 22 where Eal into -action. A Burgwald ru1 penalty move RPI 37. Eale~ pas:;;, but see~r ered, he dec1c himself. Seem: line of scrimm general squirr of tacklers t? ~ (t) chalk up Umc ' of the afterno Pike upped tb a perfect pla• RPI put its« ball game o touchdown by and a two-po from Lundgre son, elating tl coming Week• The Garnet downfield aftE off with sb downs to the where Pike l field goal. T llelle:trated to but the Dutcl attempts to t questionable c sweell by Bt . gridders I?ack. t I! necessi ta tmg boot. • ' • Eale The highlig: a 13-yard p: Norm La.very er by the Sa bined with t Bll'gwald, w Union rusher: 21 carries. B1 Ray Gilmart Dutchmen to tack stalled. The two sq' terms thtou~ second half, . a Garnet fum with less tha play. The En: injured first Frank Van R second desper astray as the Coach Maras contest that l as sharp as 1 formance, bu relentlef!lS fa en defense. the \guiding excelled ' on with sot~hom a11d Bill Bo· Chick Swain feusive accol cepted an R game to stop selaer drive. Pike turne< II_. lb=====================? .• •· of the .season 'uosition in a< kicking. The up the slack ~, was stopped,

1961 in move has -five its Wil- ronger en olland, d lack the Wit- driv- and of s de- fine con- Dave the with the on play- make com- he and under s an- help He has a year. size him. has the how the that of out- he fel- eg-an in Jeff has his the for \ • 5 ~--~--~~~~~--------------~~------------~----~--------- Union College Defeats R~P.I., 10-8 P~ke Kicks . ~inning 1 Nzne Yard Fteld Goal· Round-a-bout By Jim Strosberg By David Thurston Pro~.~:d possess~rs :of a two-game winning streak, the longest v1etory .s.kem smce 1956, the Union College football team meets a winless Hobart eleven tomorrow at 2. PM at Alexander . Field _with hi~h j hopes of 1mprovmg on 1ts There are five sports events 2-2. slate. I taking- place on campus this The Dutchmen evened their weekend. Today the vmsity soc- season recor'd last Saturday by : cer team plays Hartwick at 3·:20 downing- a fired-up Rensselaer 1 PM, and the freshman footbaU -Poly squad, 10c8, on Tom Pike's 1 sqqad goes against Rochester at second period field goaL After a i 3 :_00 PM. On Saturday, there thorough check through Union's 1 Will. be two cross-country meets tired football annals, local his- 1 agamst Colgate! the Freshmen torians proclaimed the contest to' start!ng at . 2:00 PM and. the be the first Union win ·settled by. Varsrty leavmg at 2:30 PM. Of a three-pointer in almost- 50 course the main event of the years, marking the only note of day is the football game against distinction in a .forecasted two- Hobart at 2:00 PM on Alexander . touchdown win for the Garnet. Field. On Monday the Cross- Shown abov~ 1s halfback junior Pet~ Burgwald running into a ston~. Union 0 ened the encounter Country team hosts Hamilton at, wall of Engmeers. m last Satl!rday ~ game. Bu~gwald leads Garnet with a flm~y that threatened to I a:30, and tl)e _Yarsity soccer team . backs m yards gamed by rushmg w1th a ~14 yard total. Uni!'n C~l'­ run the Engineers off '86 Field as I travel to Trmlty for an away 'lege defeated R['I. last Saturday 10-8, for tts _second consecut 1 ve wm Quarte.rback Dave Eales scamp-I g;J.m.e. I of th~ se~son. Y.;mon faces Hobart. tomorrow m a home game. Kic!<- ered for a 37-yard touchdown run · off time 18 2 P:\-1 at Alexander F1eld. the f·irst time .the Garnet got ~·>--------- iWitzelmen Nip R.P·.I.~ First Win The blanket of apathy which has engulfed student in- ~'~'\'\\\''~1 in varsity sports has been lifted slightly in the past weeks by the recent success of the Union College foot- : team. Now at the half-~ ------ ay mark in the season, the J fro~ Troy ~~;!so left the initials of · net have won t\.VO games 1 their school' m front of the Alumni and are better than even I G~·mnasium in case there would .be choices to defeat Hobart and any doubt .a~ to who the culprits · 'l 1 were. A T..:mon attempt to seek .iaml ton. revenge later in the night, ran Those upperclass students who: afoul of the RPI Police Force. ·attended the RPI and H.ochester' The weekend's assault was the _perhaps noticed an in- j first show of RPI spirit since m und~r:gra~uat~ attend- 1 1958, . when returning Gar·net and parttCJpatron m organ- Alumm were greeted by three cheermg. twenty-foot letters neatly en- Sportrnanship Lacking ~,ra,:ed in Alexander. Field. The Last Saturday's. ga.me against F.ngmPPt's used chemtcals to burn RPI was a real thriller! Penal- the \RPI\ in the grass the pre- .ties, fumbles, interceptions and ~·t?us mgh_t. Insult was added to many other tinaccountables kept 1 ';Jury durmgthf' game. when 5'1\ game in the uir, until the !.'.'i-lh .RPnsgeJaer halfback Tony second, when a do-or-die I D1gr_mzto, ~cored all three of the pass attempt. by RPI Engmeer s touchdowns to defeat uarterback Frank Van Rensse- t~e Garnet in the Homecoming latled to reach tbe intended ( nntest. . · in the ~n_d Z<ln~.. Trophy Replaces Violence Some. of the Umon ::;p!l'tt, how- :~ver, nught have been interpreted In past eras, the rivalry was or sportsmanship. In our centered more on physical -vio- it was bad taste to ask lence than school spirit. In 1949 team to \Hit 'em again, hard- U!Jion lost a .leg of the Idol, along •er, harder,\ each time an injured wtth the blood, teeth, and hair of ~PI player was help-ed off the several students. In 1933, the field. \Kill the ref\ c:heers each RPI men attacked the officials time Union committed an i~frac- af'te1· the Garnet emerged froU: tion of the rules, probably sound- the game victorious. The rivalry their hands on the ball, capping. a 78-yard drive. The burst failed to faze the s!idt;l-rulers, however, and RPl played stiff, spirited football the remainder of the game. The slick quarterbacking of Dick Lundgren and the tough Cherry-and-White defense were contributing factors to RPI's good showing, The fact that the hosts had a two-week layoff to become wen-acquainted with Union's pat-. tern of play was also considered a little immature to the re- reached its peak in the post-Sec- The Union College soccer team ing RPI alumni. (Incidental- ond World War years, when radio- ' by the Monday morning quarter- backs around the quad. Garnet coach Joe Maras, however, an- swered \disappointed\ Union fans with the precise post-game com- mentary: \RPI can keep their moral victory, we'll take the game broke into the win column Wed- referee who c:alled a 15- patrol cars were used to protect lnesday, when the Garnet defeat- penalty on L'nion for down-l the campuses, and airplanes to 1 •·u. Rf?l 1-0, in an away game. Llucking i::~ the iather uf a scatter propaganda. In 1948, the score.\ 1 This nctory marked the first time Union gridiron and base- two colleges exchanged bills of that a 'C'nion College varsity soc- all star). The most disgi·aceful damage amounting to almost cer team defeated their T1·oy action of all, however, was the $1400. ·Pictured al;10ve are Garnet defensemen Tom Pike (22) and Bob Car- ter (74) pursuing an RPI ball carrier. The Union defens!' held RPI to only 129 yards on the ground and 42 yat·ds in the air. Tom Pike won the game for the Garnet with a field goal in the second quarter. U nion~s Football Statistics Passing 67 2 69 51 26 0 26 30 257 0 257 290 counterparts. u.ttempt . by st!ldents to . incite For the past ten years, both Right_ halfback junior Ed Lip- crowd no1ses to mterfere w1th the colleges have co-operated with ton, asststed by Captain forward quarterback's sig-nals during school officials in limiting the ri- Harvey Hayden, scored the game's last few plays of the game. valry to the Idol at Union and only g-oal in the first period. Maras and the football team the goalpost and scoreboard at Last Friday, Union lost to Col- not need or want this type of RPI. A pair of Dutchmen's shoes gate, 5-0. The Garnet played re- support. They can win one Garnet and the other Cherry' spectably the first half, being it. is the trophy awarded to th~ ldown by only one goal at the . The seven~y-five yeaF old tradi- winning team. Last Saturday's second quarter. The second half tlon of Umon-RPI :rtvalry was 10-8 victory has given the Dutch- wa:; a one-sided soccer display in · last Friday night when men's Shoes to the Garnet for the whtch Colg-ate maintained com- a carload of Engineers invaded I second cons.ecutive year. The tro- plete control of the ball, scort'nrr the walls of Minerva and painted phy is presently in the dis-play four goals. \ the Idol cherry red .. The men case in the .Memorial Field House. Today Coach Witzel's Booters · face Hartwick, at 3:30 PM in a · home game. Although sporting- only a 1-6 record, the Garnet are. confident of reversing last yeal\s 4-2 defeat. Frosh Booter~ Outplayed By Engineers, 3-1 san remo coffee house featuring thursday thru saturday iac:kie washington jazz concert -sunday 7 p.m. -? 314 front st. di 6-9804-ex 3-3041 EXCLUSIVE ••• BUT, NOT EXPENSIVE that's Featuring Authentic Campus Selections of: Boat Necks Cru-Necks Hi-V's 1 64 JAY STREET Deep V's Cardigans \First With The Finest in Men's Wear\ Suggestion: Show U.n ion Identification Card and Get Exclusive l 0% Off on All Merchandise. Jay Jewelry Co. 3 I 5 STATE STREET ~iamonds •• Purchased in Belgium and Imported fo~ Your Savings. Eliminate Importer and Wholesaler. the Arn<>ld Fisher 'SO

6 NSA • • • (Continued from Page 3) tion adopted by the National Stu- dent Congress is as follows: Case Against •• ·I Case For • • • (Continued fro1n ·Page 1) 1 (Continued from Page 1) position of ideological loyalty to fraternities to the development of · tices. I believe that fraternities use educational and communica- social skills among young men is could and should make tremen- tive institutien for the mainten- a sham and a fraud: living accom-. dous improvements in this area. • ·L G. BALFOUR CO . LETT THiE Resolution Adopted by the l'nited States National Student Association at the Fom·teenth National Student Congress August 20-30, 1961 Special Resolution: Berlin FACT: 1. ln the period from Apri'l 1, 1958, to June :30, 1960, 161 stu- dents and professors were at·- r ested for political reasons. 2. The 9th ISC noted, on the basis of the RIC Report on East Germany fot' 19G0-61, that the edumtional system of East Ger• manv is \abused as a partisan, polit-ic-al instrument for the pt•o- motion of a State ideology.\ 3. In the period from April 1, 1958, to June :30, 19GU, more than :l,800 professors, lecturers, scien- tific assistants and students left East Germam· aiHl took refuge in the westem part of the country. 4. The Free Cniversity of Ber- lin was founded in 1948 in West Be1'lin by students and faculty who had attended or taught at Humboldt University in the So- Yiet sPdor, but lived in all sectors of the l'ity. At present its student bodv inclur!Ps students from all part:; of Germany, 5. In Augm:;t 1961, thP East German police and at·my in the Soviet ~ector of Bt>rlin sealed the border between East and West Berlin, preventing East Germans nnd residPnts of the Soviet sPctnr \f Berlin from entering West Berlin. PRINCIPLE: L'SNSA, in aceordance with its basic policy declaration on totali- tadanism, \reaffirms its belief in a free university in a free society, and c o n d e m n s all totalitarian fot·ms of government whirh pre- \·ent the realization of academic freedom or university autonomy and which seek through the im- Pre-Law Society Holds Meeting The L'nion College Pre-Law Society held its first meeting :\londuy, Uetobl'l' 2:l, at 7:30 PM in the Hale House student lounge. Dean Latty, of Duke Law School, 1\ as the guest speaker. Professor . Joseph Finkelstein, pre-law ad- . '·ist'r, was also present. Latty, in a brief speech to the frl'shmen and :sophomores, ad- vi::;ed them not to tal{e any prac- · tical courses. In reference to ac- counting, he said that he would rather see a ~tudent take a course in philosophy or mathematics with · a summer com·s\ in accounting, i if po:;sihle. ' ThP ref't of the program con- ·. sh;t.,d of questions and answers about admissions, cuniculum, and: ~pecialization in law schools in 1. g-eneral and specifically in Duke. ; ance and enforcement of a cen- Th ff' · h · h modations are, all too often, be- · e 0 tcers tn t e various · ouses tralised dictartorial regime.\ low a minimum decency level, as. should have the power to mete Further, USN SA believes that judgecl by even ordinary middle- out punishment to those who d0 · students should be permitted to class ::;tandards (>f social ameni- not adhere to commonly accepted pursue their education wherever ties, physical adequacy, and sani- l'lrles of gentlemanly conduct. The they wish, and l'eaffinns its. belief tation. houses shoujd choose their faculty in the right of free movement. advisoi·s carefuHy and use them T 7. In their emphasis on a pro- for ::;orne purpose other than sign- DECLCARA ION: tected, quasi-home environment, ing party permits. The A·lmhni USNSA condemns the border fraternities inhibit the develop- should be contacted and encour- closing, which would deny the t · th 'r b of h b'ts ·men, m et mem ers, a t ·aged to support and aid th. e house. freedom of university access to f · d d t th' k' d c the students of East Germany and 0 • · 111 epen en 111 mg &n a - There are n1,1merous paths to im- in particttlar to the students liv- tton. provement. I do not believe that ing in the Soviet sector of Berlin, 8. The pretended advantages of the abolition of the system is the who have been guavanteed the housing liberal arts and science best or only cure. freedom of movement under pre- students with engineering stu- \'ious four power agreements. . dents; in the fraternities, simply In particular, USNSA condemns do not exist: they live side by p· h\J the closing of the border as· a side, rather than together. In the . 1 OS • • • final act in the total control of setting- provided by the fraternity, East German students. their eommuniaation is limited. (Continued from Page 1) MANDATE: The ~hove list is not exhaustive, Michael Greenwood debated af- by an.'r means, b.ut it does include firmative; Alan Bui)in and Ed- USNSA mandates the Intema- ' d N s 11 th some of the maJ'or considerations war · mo ar were e nega- t ional Affairs Vice-President to t' d b t Tl · 'll t hat lead me to the conclusion tve e a ors. · 1e novtces WI . forward immediately to the So- · dd't' 1 ; th' viet Commandant in Berlin its that fratemities are a liability to gam a 1 tona expenence · IS · h 1 Unt'on College. There are models weekend as the tri-rity schools vicrorous protest against t e cos- t f t' d b t ing of the border between East availal>le for replacing the mori- mee or a prac tce e a e. and West Berlin as an infringe- bund fraternity system by more Future tournaments will see ment of the rights of students ci:vilized, more mature, intellec- the Union Varsity going to Am- and a violation of the fom• power tually more stimulating economi- herst, Tufts, and Hamilton. Paul status of Berlin. The Interna- ally sounder living arrangements. Baltay, President of the Philo- tiona! Affairs Vice-Pl'esident is The House system at Harvard, or mathean Society said, \Fine further mandated to send the text the College system at Yale, pro- showings by our debaters defi- of this resolution to the Soviet vides a social and physiGal set- nitely help to further the repu- Commandant in Berlin and the ting for students in which they tation of Union Col'lege.\ Baltay, Mayor of West Berlin. can develop personally and in- who combined last year with Arnold Klappas to bring back He is also requested to transmit tellectaally, can live decently, and the laurels of first place from this resolution to the chairman can enjoy friendship and com- the McGill University Debate of the Student Council of the pa:nionship in an atmosphere that Tournament believes, \· .. that Committee of Youth Organiza- is free of the divisiveness and each tournament helps our team' tions of the USSR and to request false values of the fraternity. ~ys- to gain the experience which is him to intercede with the proper tern, an atmosphere that positive- necessary to compete with schools authorities on behalf of the stu- ly encourages youthful explora- ef the fine debating caliber of dents of East Germany and East tion a:r:td growth toward inde-/ Harvard, Dartmouth, and Wil- Berlin. pendence. Iiams.\ Clothes in the College Manner 1 Oro off To Students HATS CLOTHING FURNISHINGS Men's Shop 514 Statll St. Fh/A· ·~·. SAVE ON PHIL'S OWN BRANDS! OJ hi/ lllfJ1Jzh£llldi'A Liquor Store 511 UNION ST. EX 3-3111 EX 3-3110 Store hours: Mon. thru 5<11. 9:30 to 5 P.M. CONTROL SYSTEMS: CARL SORENSEN BADGES • RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY • PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - ·KEYS MEDA~S • TROPHIES Write ·or C:aii fraternity Jewelers • 1 71 Marsl)all St., Syracuse, N. Phone GRanite 5-7837 Best Service in Town SCHUHL ESSO SERVICE 715 Not~ St. Come in and Fill Up with the BEST GAS IN TOWN For AU Your Paint and Hardware Needs See us CAPITOl PAINT & HARDWARE CO. 730 STATE ST. Phone FR 4.4123 A quPstion was asked about the : qualitiP:< a lawyeJ' should possess. Latty t·epliecl that abo,·e average intelligence and somP power to 1 rwr,;uadl' P<'npll' to art a.~ you want al'l' nt•ce~~an·. A good mem- · \~'Y i< nnt HPre,;sary hut. of cn·•:n~u·:~·~·-~I~H~·l:p~fu~l~.~~~~~~~~::~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -~ - ~ I Thurs. 10 A.~\. to 9 P.M. Down to Louis', let us go, Let the Jager freely flow. ORDERS FROM A COMPUTER NOW CONTROL GIANT OIL REFINERY UNIT A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties aeeomodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 Who Know. Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER !Iaurice B. Graubart & Sons •I ' 1 Jay Street lewelers'' .. 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY ----------------------------------------------•, Patronize Our Advertisers! Every 24 hours, the world's largest distillation unit separates crude oil into ten different categories which end up as six million gallons of finished products. This involves continual monitoring of 250 instruments, .fol· lowed by precise balancing of controls. To operate at peak .efficiency, control directions are changed many times daily io compensate for a multitude of variables. The IBM computer that toc>k over this job now reads the instruments, makes the calculations, and issues the orders ior the control changes. 'It is guided in its work by over 75,000 instructions stored .in its electronic memory. Just a few years ago electronic· control of such a complex industrial process would have been impossible. But such is the progress in computer systems that in the sixties it will become commonplace. This dramatic progress means exciting and important jobs at IBM for the college graduate, whether in ·research, de· velopment, manufacturing, or programming. If you want to find out about opportunities in any one of these areas, you are invited to talk withtlle IBM representative. He will be.interviewing on your campus this year. Your placement office can make an appointment. J\11 qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment Without regard to race, creed, color or national origin. Write, outlining your back· ground and interests, to: Mgr. of Technical Employment,. Dept. 898, IBM Corporation, 590 Madiscm Avenue, N.Y. 22, N.Y. You naturally have a better chance to grow with a growth company; IBM IBM will interview ~ov. 20, Nov. 21. ® Pa Foe Aln Edward /'Focus\ witl 'Council meet only 25· intE attended a .. last week w of 50 was e1 sary to prorn effectively. Studeuts Skloot said, be no gyeat e -=-· \''''\\\ .moveme an apat l:lttlCient Counc: $t650, $1250 used for \·Fol the aims of ' ih,at it offere1 ~ndividuals tb concentrated · study of a sul that he wasn't optimism\ ·an< the student 1 Student Counc · All studen1 urged to atten meeting in 30 Thursday at 4 11 0 Questiom Allen Schw: of -the .special : mittee, report1 associates will naire in orde1 student body's future \activit pus, . The commtt1 ine the needs < and activities i These actions response to :t ated by propo Student U nior . Steve Shapi \ Week Commit that at the St ference the fa1 would considet J • (Continue StudeJ Ta Students curt ion College e! ly $625,465 du mer, revealed by the college . ice. Of the stud the ,questionna ing registratio 88 percent sai' Information type of work cation of em dent's job tii 11 summer earnir Somethh1 Statistics c1 dents' respom largest single employer claf 252 students camps, hotels, · . vate clubs, am sonil.l establisb ity of these waiters, camJ ) Q kitchen helper1 Other major ment, and the involved in ea facturing firn and retail fiTIJ ty, state, an mental ag-encii pita!!;! and arm struction firm sanitariums, 3 private utility Seasonal Of the stu other than se were ciassified skilled laborer ~r.as junioi\ en1 technicians, or Students work numbered 97, ' ·• <s men or sales « Nea1'lY half worked found own initiative. families helpe< friends assiste Half (Jf th< didn't work,. OJ enrolled in sull

