PIGSKIN p-ROSPECTS • JAZZ HISTORY Page 2 Page 5 Foupded at Union College tn 187'7 -. ·' SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, SEPTEMB!:R 20, 1963 PRICE 1 5 CENTS reshman Profile First IFC hows Improvement Meeting Opening Convocation The 332 members of the Class of '67, the second lar- in Union's history, entered with the highest average Is Held Honors Nott Scholars · . score of any class. Their verbal average was 606, and the math was 656. This compares with 586 and 642 for the by .Jeffrey Lander Class of '66 and 509. and 586 for~ The Interfraternity Council for- the Class of '57. mally opened the academic year Ove1· fou~·,fifths of the class :n· k t by establishing the IFC Work- ranked in the top . fifth of their . . 0 0 S · 0 r e shop Committee, Meal Planning \high school class. Mr. :Pe~rson, Committee and other new commit• Director @f AdmissiQns, said he.: M d tees at their opening meeting was \quite confident that everyone S '· ·· Q V e. . Tuesday·. could do the necessary work.'' He .. continued, \These students seem · · The I. F, C. Workshop Com- . to be gentlemen. They a•re 1·e- Since the clGsing of the school mittee, an object of much discus- taxed, matUl'e, courteous. While year in June, numerous changes .sion last semester, was formally there are few standouts, they are m the character of the campus organized. The President, Vice uniformly good. Strong leader- have been made, The moving of President, Treasurer, Steward, ship may prove the determining the book store to the basement of rushing. chairman, and social factor in whether they live up to the Nott Memorial and the re- chairman from each House will their promise.\ decoration of part of West Col- meet three times during the year A comparison of tbis c:lass with ~ege are prominent among these to di13cuss problems common to that of '57 shows an increase in .Improvements. each house · in an attempt to by David Volkman The granting of Eliphalet . N ott Scholarships to sixteen students highlighted t h e first Fall convocation. Phi Epsilon captured the Brown Cup for the third consecutive year, thus retiring it for the second time. Chi Psi won the two other major frater- nity trophies, the Fitz Tro- . phy for intercollegiate sports and another trophy for in- tramural sports. The pro .. gram was rounded out by Augustus Fox,. chairman of the Math Department, who . g~ ve a talk entitled, \A Year w1th Two Cultures.\ Nott Scholarships Given · the number of out-of-state stu• The@dore R. Mcllwaine, Busi- bring the different fraternities ·dents from 21 '1c to 36%. There ness Manager of the college, lists closer together. Guest .speakers, was also a· drop in engineering the relocation and modernization including members of the faculty students from 124 to 79, with a ·. the college bookstore as per- working along with the I.F.C., corresponding increase in liberal haps the most striking change will also be present. It is hoped arts students from 72 to 138. The made during the summer at Un- 'that through the opinions of engineering dl'op is partially ex- ion. The new book store located . these speakers, as well as plained by the 35 men in the 5- in the lower level of the Memorial through the added ideas of schol- year program which did not then is completed and is now in use. arship students selected from each exist. The upper section of the build- ·House, a method of improving The Stephen B. Brown Trophy wa:o a'H;arded mistakenly to Chi Dean Pollock presents Fitz Cup Augustus Fox speaks at Convo- . Ps1. This errcor wa& straightened to Chi Psi's Mik~ Miller. cation. out the next day 1;1.nd the trophy was reawm~ded to Phi Epsilon Pi. The Brown Trophy is awarded Class Pleases Pollock While this year's freshmen do not :;~eem as athletic a group as last year's, \they have tremen- dous · spitit,\ said Dean of Stu- ·deiJ.ts 0. Edward Pollock. \Nearly everyone was impressed. by the ing has been renovated to house the scholastic standing of many a theater for the Mountebanks. of the fraternities will be devised. Mr. Mcilwaine expressed the hope that work on the theater would :Meal Committee Formed be completed before the group's first scheduled performance early in November. · Another new committee organ- ized at the meeting was the Meal · Planning Committee, under the chairmanship of. Bart Gorman, Secretary of the I.F.C. This body will arrange the visiting meals by freshmen during the rushing pe- riod. Rather than taking their meals at the houses only during the two week formal rushing pe- riod, as was done in the past, freshmen will now eat at the dif- ferent houses on specified days spread throughout the year. This new :plan will allow the freshmen more time to thoroughly decide upon a house. It will also ease the Fraternities financial burden cre- ated by the need to feed an add- ed number of people. Prior to the designated days, each freshman • · qu~lity of their discussion sem- ina:rs. I am very pleased.\ The excellence of the Frosh talent show was mentioned by • ·John Mazzotta, Head of Orienta- tion. It was, he said, better than any he had yet seen at Union. He also expressed confidence that the Class of '67 would revive the old tradition of wearing their hats until the first football game. 1 ·\'·P rom o t i o· n s Announced Larry Horowitz has been pro- moted to the Senior Board of the Concordiensis. Richard Sifton, David Volkman, Robert Hoffman, William Naufftus, Glen Holz- hauet·, Jeffrey Lander, Peter Mil- sky, Arthur Morgenstern, and . 1 Henry Ruschmeyer have receiv- • ed promotions to the Junior Board. These promotions have been made in accord with the paper's policy to grant regular promotions to those members of the staff who show continuous interest in the newspaper. West Renovated Another important aspect in the college's plan for improve- ment this summer was the re- decoration of the second floor of West College. In an address to the Freshman class during orien- tation week, Dean Pollock stated that appt•oximately $20,000 was spent on this project. Dean Pol- lock emphasized that the Admin- istration will try to continue the improvement of dormitory condi- tions in North College and throughout the remainder of West College. By the end of October another major change will have been made. At this time the demoli- tion of Washburn Hall is expect- ed to be completed. Horowit~, a junior . pre-med, will take the position of features editor. He will be responsible for the writing and format of the · Features Page. Horowitz has been , . on Dean's List and was responsi- .. \ ble for selecting the films for the Lectures and Concerts Commit- tee this coming year. The college has also purchased an accelerator for the Physics de- partment which will be used for instructional purposes. Much me- chanical engineering equipment was removed from the depart- ment's machine lab and has been installed in Carnegie Hall. Util- izing this available room, the bi- ology department has moved much of its equipment into this lab. Some work, designed to im- prove facilities available for in- tramural athletics, has been com- pleted on the bakony floor of the gymnasium. Mr. Mcllwaine also pointed out that there has been some repair work done on roads throughout the campus. will turn in list designating those houses at which he wishes to eat. The Committee will then attempt to assign to ea(,!h freshman his first choice. Booklets describing each fraternity will also be hand- ed out. Dapkin Heads Committee This year's Rushing Rules En- forcement Committee under the Chairmanship of Mark Dopkin, President of Phi Epsilon Pi. was somewhat revised. The President and Secretary of this six man committee will ;now be ex-officio members. Other appointments were given to David Crandall, Chairman o f t h e Fraternity Scholar Committee and Dan Prig- more, Chairman of the Public Re- lations Committee. ;! ;! Sophomores App()inted Sifton, promoted to Assistant Features Editor, is a sophomore English major. Hof:fman and Vol):;man have been named Assist- H~lp Students Presented .. ant News Editors. Hoffman, a sophomore pre-med, is editor of Nott News and is on the Dean's . List. Volkman is a sophomore 1~: math major and is a member· o:f j the cross country team. Elevated to the position of Ex- · change Editor is Bill Naufftus, i•;:; sophomot·e English major and member of the soccer team. Five sophomores have been promoted to positions of Associate Editors. Holzhauer is a history- major and '\ .(Cont!nued on Page 4) Student Dies r~ A19-yeai' old Union sophomore, Seventeen Mentbers Added To Faculty ~~c_h year. to that fraternity that fm1shes highest in the combined are~J,s of academic standing in- tramurals, and participatio~ in school .actiyities. The second top fra,terpity m the competition was Phi S1grila Delta, the donor of the trophy. C:hi Psi finished third. If Seventeen new members have® a frater~1ty w_ins the; trophy three been added to the Union College consecutive t1m t t\ · faculty this semester. Hein Welhelm Hildel, Visiting · · · es I re Ires It. Instructor in German and French This !S the seventh time in the Profes.sor of Chemistry, George ten years of com t't\ th t Ph-· will replace p .. ofef?sor Ha1'nebach · pe I Ion a I Reed will spend his sabbatical \' Epsilon P1' h th this year. Hildel attended the · · as won e cup and year with the National Science this \\ill b th d ' h · · Universities of E. rla'ngen 1 ·n Ba- · ' e e secon cup t at Foundation in Washington. His has been t\ d b Ph\ varia, Grenable 1\n France and . . re Ire Y 1 Epsilon position will be filled be Assist- P1 ant Professor Kevork Vartan Na- Studienrat, Alexandruimand and Th N t S Coburg 1\n Germany. e ot cholarships are habedian. Nahabedian received his sponsored b th t h James Hilary Ward III will Y · e wo onor so- S.B. from M.I.T.,M.A. from Ver- J·oin the faculty as Instructor 1 ,n cieties at Union College, Phi Be- mont and PhD from New Ha.mp- ta Kappa and SI\g x· E h Spanish. After recei'v1\ng h. 1's B.A. · ; ma I, ac shire. He previously served as year the sch l I· d from Grinnell an. d hi\s M.A. from . · 0 ars nps are a war - instructor of general and organic ed to those ·st ·d· t h · Tulane, he served in t.he Depart- . u en s avmg an chemistry at the University of f S average index of over 3.7. This Vermont. ment o panish and Portuguese year'$ awards went to Mike Ber- A new member of the Depart- at Tulane University. son,. Chris Bickford, James Blake ment of History is Assistant Pro- Charles, George Gati, A.B., .J?aVI<;l Braff, :Mike Chapnick, Mar~ fessor Manfred. Jonas, who form- A.M. Indiana, will serve as In- tm Jay, Julian Olf Oscar Ro- erly was Associate Professor of structor ~n Political Science, re- J?enblum, William R~sen, Robert History of Pennsylvania Military placing Professor Ridel, who is Schaefer., Dale Schenider, Si- College and taught for three yeat•s on leave. Before coming to Un- mon S b R dh T 1 ion Gati was Resident lecturer 1 'n ° o, 0 am u loss and at the Free University of Berlin. Robert Warner. ' Professor Jonas received his B.S. ~~;:rnment at Indiana Univer- ,Chi t:si also won the Edmond ~'b 1~~~ ~~~v~d~.N.Y. and his .Tames Edward Underwood will r.l~Z Pl'lze as the fratemity that · also serve as Instructor in Po- did most for intercollegiate Reid Heads Geology litical Science. Underwood re- ati:letics at Union College.\ Chi While Professor Hewitt of the Psi avet·aged over one varsity let- Department of Geology is on sab- (Continued on Page 6) ter, per fratel'nity member. Sigma batical, Assistant Professor John ~h1 won the second place trophy David Reid will carry out his du- AI • A m lnt::amura:ls. This year the ties. Reid received his B.A. and Uffifil ward: Alumm. Award for academic im- M.S. from Syracuse and served as provemen1; was not given because Chairman of the Department of N 0 t G t·· v· e n no f~aternity showed a sighifi- Geology and Dean of Men at cant Improvement. Windham College in Vermont be- Fox Discusses Sabbatical f · t U · The Alumni Plaque for the Im- · ore coming o mon. .Professor Fox followed the Three ne\ \ professors were dd provement of Scholarship has not \ a - b d d Pl'Ize, presentat1' ons wt\th a d;s- 1 ed to the D Partme t f M th een awar e this year. The e n o a e- cusswn of what he had done and matics this year. award would have· been presented s d . h' . Robert Kalechofsky, wha re- to a fraternity at the opening een urmg IS year's sabbatical ' d h; B S f C C N y Convocation, but according to He made references to C p ceive Is . . rom . . . • and D Snow's \Two Cultures\ and 'then' has completed graduate work at ean 0. Edward Pollock, there t t . N.Y.U. will serve as Assistant has been no significant improve- wen o_n ° explain how he had Professor in that department. He ment in the average grade index co!lle m contact with art and formerly served as Assistant of any fraternity that would mer- SCience. In addition to visiting Professor of Mathematics at the it the award. \The direction of modern art exhibits, Dr. Fox at- New York State Unive 1 ·sity at most improvement\ stated the ~ended lectures on particle phys- Stony Brook. Dean, \was negative.'' Ics. After a year of impressions The award had been granted Fox reached the conclusion that Union Alumnus Appointed annually by the Alumni Council. the underlying similarity between Another Assistant Professor in It · these, two cultures 1\s change, If 1 ·s M · s purpose IS to stimulate schol- athematics is Thomas James hi d thesis w, as that· tt.e recent ars p a vancement within the u Powers, a Union Alumnus and fraternities and goes to the. fra- changes m both art and science winner of the Catlin Prize. Pow- t •t 'th th· t t · h.ave given both fields a revolu- ers, who received his M.S. from erm Y WI e grea es Improve- twnary outlook. ment of grade index over its in- . R.P.l. also served as teaching and dex of the pre'Vious academic Dr .. Fox extended this idea into research assistant there before year. the field of education stating that joining our faculty. (Continued on Pag.e 4) During Professor Nowack's sab- Improvement Deemed Small . batical, Harold Keller will serve This year is the first in which T In.;o. n· R' QI'T1fY as Instructor in Art. Keller re- the award has not been made. No {.) j ,_ .1.. L ceived his B.A. from Arkansas ·specific reasons have been attri- and his M.A. fr()m N.Y.U. Be- buted to this general decline in JI\\Ya;nS tt0n0r.'S · fore cqming to Union he served academic advancement. The lead- U \ · .LZ1 ·as Instructor in Art at the State ing fraternity in advancement, ac- Three members of Union's Air University at Orteonta. cording to the Fraternity Schol- Force Reserve Officer's Training · Charles Hall, took a fatal dose of cyanide Friday after the police 1 . • , ~ad picked him '!!P for q:uestion- mg. Hall, a chemtstry maJor from Silver Springs, Maryland, col- laspsed at police headquarters while being qu~stioned about a Coming to Union from the Li- arship Annual Report of the Year Corps received the coveted Vice brary of Congress is our new 1962-1963 and Spring .Semester Commandant's Award this sum- Head Cataloguer, James Roger . 1963, was Phi Delta Theta with mer. The cadets, Aldo A. Giardin- This years HELP students being introduced by Carter Davidson. The Thrash. Thrash who was Head of an improvement o:f only .059. epi, Peter J. Grandstaff and d the Currellt Imprints Section This is considered negligible by Th.om.as Westen participated· 1 ·n ten students are; Gor on Anderson, St. Andrews. Ex.change student•, ther·e for f\ve s · ' d h\ Dean Pollock The oth f t · 1 year receive 1s · . · · er ra erm- the Summer Training Unit pro- Jan-Jusaf Barkman, Sweden; :Mario Blanco Sequeiros, :Bolivia; Dan B.A. from Ohio State and his tie::; with minute uplifts were Phi gram. at PlattsbUrgh Air Force \ \ series of burglaries at the College Book Store. Hall was pronounced dead on arrival at St. Clare's Hospital. Hall became involved ~~~ with the police after being spot- ted wearing a stolen jacket. Much of the pilfered material was recovered in Hall 1 s I'oom. B h M.S. in L.S. from Western Re- Epf!ilon Pi, Beta Theta Pi, Al~ Base in Plattsburgh, New Yot'l{. oesen, Denmark; Giancarlo C evallard, Italy,· Raymond Oliver Bi- pha D~t Ph' d D lt Ph' All serve. · a I, an e a t. The award went to the out- bishein, Switzerland; Peter H. R. Hussy, Zurich Exchange student;. Frederick !1~. Showers received the ot er ele'Ven 'showed a de- standing cadets in each of the I . his B.M.E. from Clarkson and cline of up to .253 for the· year. five flight gi.'oups. The fi\ve w·n- 1 an Ott·, St. Andrews Exchange student•, Ronald Prins, Netherlands,· h1' · M S f\ · g· t. t h h In addi\t1\on D P ll k 'd s · · · .• om o,.,ar , w ere e • ean o oc sa1 ners were from a field of 140 jun- Iuge Steenland, Norway, taught before coming to Union to in the Fraternity .Scholarship Re- iors and seniors who were spend- serve as Instructor in Mathe- port, \There we're ten chapters mg four weeks at the base to matics. (Continued on Page 6) leatn more about the Air Force.

sixteen the Phi Brown ecutive for the won frater- Tro- sports for in- pro .. out by 'of who Year Trophy to Chi trophy psilon Pi. awarded that combined in- pation in top was of the third. If three it. in the that Phi cup, and cup that Epsilon are honor so- Phi Be- Xi. Each award- an 3.7. This Mike Ber- Blake, Mar- Ro- Robert Si- and Edmond that Chi let- Sigma trophy year the im- because a sighifi- the a dis- done and sabbatical to C. P. and then he had art and to visiting Fox at- rticle phys- impressions that between change. Ifis the recent and science a revolu- idea into stating that 4) Union's Air Training coveted Vice this sum- A. Giardin- and in Unit pro- Air Force New York. to the out- each of the five win- of 140 jun- were spend- the base to he Air Force. 2 <lJnnrnr Publlahed Fridays durin~ the school :rear b:r the Student BodY ot Union College, SchenectadY, N. Y. Na- tional Advertising Representative: National Advertising Service, Inc .. College Publishers Representative. t20 :Madison Ave .. N. Y. C. ~itnsta Editorial Office, Old Gym, Union College, Publication Office, Sche- nectadY Printing Company, 602 Broadway. Entered in the Sche- nectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 15c a copy; $3 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. SENIOR BOARD DAVID BERENSON 'G4 .......................................................................... Editor in Chief ~~:~:~~~~~~~~J~~i~~~~~ History of Jazz- Su,c!.e ITS ...e1 NICE. BOOK.ST . -Bur so¢ Pf)!2. MATt:HI='; ? B- -,_rr .r- t- r...... ·~ ][;; .ii]~ - The Price Is Right? Upon returning to the campus this year, upperclass- men have been pleasantly surprised upon entering the pleasant, spacious new book store in the baseme?t. of the Nott :Memorial. However, this moment of euphona IS gen- erally short-lived when these students find themselves co~­ fronted with the prices of the required textbooks for their courses. A sickening feeling developes in the pits of their stomaches as they walk toward the smiling saleslady at the cash register who will cheerfully tote up their bill. Few feel any better when informed that all profits of the bookstore go into a scholarship fund for Union students. Through an unfortunate quirk of human nature, most would still rather have their extra ten dollars instead of helping some unknown Union student of the future. As we walk through the campus, we can hear muffled cries of protest against the bookstore and stories of mark-ups on certain books or of other college bookstores where the same book can be purchased for two or three dollars less. In the Beginning By Thomas Krehbiel Whether or not these complaints are justified remains to be seen. An official comparison should be made with prices in other college bookstores. There are other ques- tions that also require answering. Who decides the book- store's financial policy, the Administration or Mrs. Hill, the manager? What are the prospects of changing the bookstore into a co-op similar to that in operation at other colleges? What is the amount of the scholarship funds obtained from the bookstore and should these funds be obtained from more conventional sources? These questions should be studied and answered by the Administration and the Student Council. Admittedly, the importance of this issue pales in contrast to such important matters as the closing of the missile gap and the future of fraterni- ties, but the bookstore is an important part of Union serv- ing the students and faculty and should be doing its best to please them. A Three Ring Circus The following article is the first in a series on the history of jazz by Thomas Krehbiel. Mr. Krehbiel, a jazz fan since the age of two, will discuss the major ele· ments of jazz as well as pre- senting a partial listing of basic records for anyone in- terested in building a jazz record collection. During the past summer he studied ar· ranging and composing at Oscar Peteson~s Advanced School of Contemporary Mu- sic where he received a first Class degree. The first problem encountered in writing a history of any move- ment is deciding where to begin. In the case of jazz this is fur- ther compounded by the fact that the origins of this particular mu- sical style are extremely varied and complex. Certain elements of early jazz come from sources as far removed from each other cul- turally and geographically as the jungles of Africa and the ball- rooms of France. Since then jazz hase been touched by more re- cent developments in European music, and by the ancient mus- ic of the middle east, and by Spanish and Latin American styles of music. As one would ex- pect, these Yaried influences have made jazz a highly varied and interesting art form. But none of this helps us find a birthdate for jazz. First Recording in 1917 There have been attempts to find an acceptable starting point for the jazz movement. Harry Otis Brunn has written a book in which he claims that jazz as we know it began with the re- cording of \Livery Stable Blues\ by the Original Dixieland Jazz Band in 1917. This was the first jazz recording ever made and it certainly was a milestone but very few people would be indined to believe that jazz suddenly sprang into being that day in the RCA Victor recording studios. (Victor reissued these recordings on an LP on their \X\ label a number of years ago, bt !y they are not readily ABC Paramount has i< convincing re-creations works on an LP titled Dixieland Jazz in Hi can be obtained today. easily discount Jelly l on's statements that he ja~z in the year 1901\ this is a more accep1 Perhaps the best thin~ view of the situation an arbitrary date and that basis. Therefore tl1e year 1900 as th date of jazz. In this y Bolden was playing ment parks in New Orl Ellington was one yea Louis Armstrong wm the Fourth of July. Blues Began Down Although the wor would not come into ~ as a musical term for the:re can be no questi< the blues was being J sung in many areas of Even today one can fil recorded examples of l take the same form al rnon in the old daye the version of \I Go on My Mind\ reco1 years ago by Rober1 (now available on a umbia LP) to the re the same song on Car Spann IS the Blues\ I three years ago. Yot that both have the viction and spirit, al· was recorded in an e ferent musical era, jazz point of view. ~ men such as John l Roosevelt Sykes, Lonr and Lightnin' Hopkin: ing the blues spirit al recordings on Veejay : stige Recording Comp1 ville series. And theE assisted by such as and of course, Ray Cl of whom have made 1 well known by singinl ing a contemporary this same blues form The blues is famili: people mainly throug roll, and these people (Continued on P: We are indeed happy to note the re-emergence of the House Un-American Activities Committee. What has been for the past year an academic argument concerning the merits of the HU AC has flared up again almost as in- tensely as during the San Francisco riots three years ago. The Concordiensis would like to congratulate Rep. Edwin Willis of Louisiana, in his rookie appearance as chairman of the committee, for hitting a grand slam. Once again the professional anti-Communists can cry out with alarm about sinister infiltration. The most rabid foes of the HUAC can have the emotional catharsis of screaming \Fascists\ at the committee members. The New York Daily News and many similar newspapers can hurl some of their best hoarded invective against the witnesses who appeared be- fore the Co-mmittee. The New York Post and a few other papers can view the hearings with alarm and forsee a pas- misguided, and possibly mentally disturbed young people Cant pus Briej sible rebirth of McCarthyism. Add to this the pro and anti-Castroites, and we have a situation suited for keeping nearly everyone's adrenalin flowing. The situation is perfect. Of course we ought to be grateful for one aspect. As so aptly described by the Daily News, most of the students investigated by the committee were ''beatniks\ and other horrible things. These naive, misbuided, and possibly mentally disturbed young people do not seem to present a very great threat to our country. However, if they had been dedicated, competent, and,pow- erful agents of tha Communist conspiracy and if the past record of the HUAC's performance against Communism is any criterion, we could not be completely sure whether we would not become \Comrades under the law of Min- erva.\ One more nagging point brought up at the hear• ings may also continue to bother us. Is a Negro really more free in some parts of Louisiana than in Cuba? FACULTY RECEPTION All new faculty members are invited to a reception by the President tonight in Hale House at 8:30 P. M. GLEE CLUB The Glee Club will meet Mon- day and Wednesday in Old Chapel at 7:00 P. M. EPISCOPALIANS The Canterbury Club will meet Monday evening at 8:30 P.M. in the Hale House student lounge. HILLEL The Hillel Executive Board \\'ill meet Monday, September 30, at 7:00 P.M .. in Silliman Hall. CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP The Inter- Varsity Christian Fellowship will meet Tuesday at 7:30 P. M. in Silliman Hall, FOOTBALL On Saturday, Union vs. Wes- leyan in a scrimmage at 1:30 P.M. SCHEDULE CHANGES No schedule changes can be made after Wednesday, Septem· ber 25. CHESS CLUB There will be a meeting of the Chess Club Tuesday evening at 8:00 P. M. in Hale House. FLU CLINIC On Monday and Tuesday from 10:30 to12:00 noon a flu clinic is being conducted in .Silliman Hall. GATESMEN Sophomores interested in join- ing the Gatesmen may pick up application forms at sions Office no later tl day, September 25. 1\IE FRESH!\ Meet ME faculty classmen on Septen Jackson's Garden fr· P. :M. Refresh mer served. THE SOCIETY F ADV ANCEMEl' MANAGEM:E A newly organizE •back on campus and i: additional members IA's, economics major engineers. The SAM interesting and inforr discussion, conference and plant tours as ' information on senio: Look for notices ' meeting. HILLEL CALE October 6 - Mixe at Saratoga Spring: State, Skidmore, R and RPI are invited. up at Student Activi ober 2. Admission (i1 sportation) i~; $1.00. December 14 - D Every second Mor tive Board meetings terested freshmen ai one of the freshme activities on the Boa

4 Friday, September· 20, 1963 Friday, Septc Beaudry's Booters Boast Better Ball Spt1 Bill Bernhard (left), coach Ed Beaudry (center), and Larry McCray pose before taking -the field against Albany .State in a scrimmage. Bill and Larry were se]eeted by the squad at the close of the 1962 season to serve as co-captains for the current campaign. s the only American volun- once-embattled i s l and . Largest tary agency on Cyprus, CARE program, CARE's Food Crusade, gives impartial help to both Greek provides a daily lunch for 85,000 and Turkish communities on the primary school children. by Rick Crooltes With new blood in the coaching department and in the form of standout imports from abroad, the Union soccer squad appears to have an ex-cellent shot at one of its b€'st campaigns in years. Coac~1 Ed Bea~dry, who comes'(' to us fl:om Hanulton College. ~nd , hopes to compensate for he~vy wh.o \.\:111 double as the. ·B nwn losses in these areas by \:ISing S'f\l!ll_llllllg mentor, steps mt_o t~e candidates from last years fresh- po~rtwn \'acated b_y. Carl . Wttzel s man squad and by switching the s.\'·rtc.h t~:~ an adn:mrstratrve posr- positions of some of returnees. twn rn the athletic department at The strongest bids for starting Oneanta State Teachers College. berths in the halfback line are . ,.::· ,:.:.· .. ~eu-!-ldry,. wf:o quickly won the , l'oming from sophomot·es John affectwn of hu; players, has al- , Fuller a converted outside Darry ready rounded ~he team int? shape 1 Caye, 'and Dave Hoi bridge~' Othet'S through the ngorous sessiOns of :in the running are Ray Teed and the past week, an~ rww faces ~he I Hay Didisheim, a HELP student I pr<?blem of ~eleetmg fl. ::;tartmg from Switzerland. Senior Ben u~ut .. from :.t host of fine candi- .i Blair looms as the lone letterm~n tLttLs. . . . . at tlw fullback post, and wrH 1 . Tlw g-n·at<·,,t co~Hpdtt!un 1s be- probably be juirwd thete either 1 I!!J.!' .\'ag-~·d 111 tlw tront !me whL·re. by ~uplwmore \'inn· Dacquisto or 1 \\\\;,.&\\\\'....., Sen!!~ Sunomls, J:.tl'k Rowell, c~- i by ()ary Brown, a juni~:~r, \\'hoi captal'lls Lany 1\~cCra~: and Dr!! saw action as an uubidc on last· Bernherd and hrgh-scorer Rolf • years squad. Kasper re~urn from last. years It looked as if the varsity boot- squll;d to fmd t~at th~y Will. ~ave ers would be hurting in the goal to fight to r~tam therr posrbons. with the loss of quick rangy Brian . Thre~ forergn s.tudents attend- Barefoot due to .scholastic rea- mg Umon,,Ron Prms of the Neth- sons; but it now appears that the Garnet hooters in action during a recei.tt scrimmage with Aibany erlands, Gmncardo Chevallard of vacated slot will aptly be filled State. The Dutchmen scored a decisive 10-4 victory in this their Italy and Bob Nganga from Ken- by HELP student Jan Gustaf first game condition practice session. ya, have s.hown fine ability in ~he Barkman of Sweden. Jan, who early sessiOns, and should provide has shown a strong foot and fin- last year's.I.~~ttermel} with plenty esse at the position wiH be back- G H . R ~-~'~l crJ_ of. compe.tJtiOn: Prms hopefully ed up by Bo Dickman. . arnet arrters 'lJ J I e . rJ.OSen W:Ill combme w1th Kasper to. pro- . All in all, the team's potential · V1de the Garnet ~ooters wtth a.·is very good, and it should im- •f C d•t• • 0 Most Valuable· hard to stop scormg duo. Both prove on last years 3 and 6 rec-' n on. 1 IODine . . . hav~ the natural gr~ce and de- ord. The addition of the· several ' . . Shortly after school ended last ceptwn that .come Wlth years of HELP students has increased the • . The Umon College Cl os~. co~n- year the twenty-second annuai soccer experrence and work to- team's scoring punch. tly t~am has begun condttronm.g . .::;emor All-Star Iacross game was gether flawlessly. Coach Beaudry has inspired the for the 1963 s~ason under therr played at Lake Placid, ~ew York. Mara~ Footb An athlet be introduc~ today at 5:4 Joe Maras, that he has years. In t edge of co: eral and : . The graduation loss is felt to a squad to work harder at getting head mentor, Wilfred Ketz. Co~ch ·'!'he contest, which pitted t)le best ,...-----------------------------: n:uch greate~ degree. In the b~ck- into shape and working together Ket.z has had th~ team runmng .col!egiate netmen from the North freld Captam Abe Terpemng, as a single unit. We predict the du-rmg the past flve days, and at against their counterpar~s. from Garnet foot arouse inte thusiasm, tl letic Assoc spectator c: 100% wool flannel in Deansgate's natural shoulder model. 39.95 will be missed along with half- Garnet hooters will be pl'epared a much th~g~~r pace than th~y the South, ended with the latter back Pete Neddermeyer and full- to represent Union in a mo:re weve. at t IS .tnne last year .. Dis- on top as most observers had ex- backs John _Nelson, Herro Helber than respectable fashion when a.ppomt~d With the strength of pected. However, Union college's and Pete B1shko. Coach Beaudry they travel to the University of hiS 1 c~aiJ'es last seas?~• ~etz has representative, goalie Bill Riffle, Rochester, September 28, for the ~~~;h~~ w~~~~~tscondJttonmg and di~ much to keep northern hopes season's opener. · alive throughout the battle. Of Strengthened by the advance of his outstanding play in the nets last years frosh, the te~m should The Baltimore Sun had this to Zipp' s Barber Shop Complete Barber Service 1569 Van Vranken Ave. 3 Doors Up From Branch Post Office Convocation 0 be gl·ea~ly lmproved thiS season. say, \As so often happens in this 11 • Dave Rmg, who led the ~rosh to game, an unheralded star is put (Continued from Page 1) a . three and two . record Ill 1962, on exhibition for the first time \the aim of education should be Will lead the. harners. D.ave VC!lk- outside his own precincts. This to move into the future.\ He man, who ts presently runnmg time it was North goalie Bill Rif- maintains that the present can second 0 1?- the squad, Jan Werner, fle, of Union College, who made no longer be ignored but must be Leroy Mlchael, Dave Br':lce, .John sixteen saves, including five in assimilated and lived with. He Semp~es, and Gary Morris Will be the time you could count to pointed out specifically to math carrymg. the ~aeon for the Garnet \five and generally was a leap- teaching as an example. Dr. Fox along Wlth Rmg. ing, dexterous pest for the summed up his remarks by urg- The team has thus far shown a South.\ Entering the clash late in ing Union to play a role in the· good basis for at least some opti- the first quarter after some roe- changing present and the prom- mism, at least as far as improv- diocre work by the Syracuse ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i~s~in~g~f~u~tu~r~e~.;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ ing upon last year's nothing and goalie, \Riff\ brought the as- 50 four slate is concerned. tounded, applauding crowd to its The harriers will be represent- feet twice in the second half For ing Union against the following his extraordinary performance Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES Field's Liquor Store 38 ERIE BOULEVARD (Across from Train Station) t ¥ T T T t T t ¥ y f' t T ¥ t T T t t t f t t T f T V T T T V i' T t\ Y T T 'f T T f 't' t 'T T' SAVE ON OUR OWN Olde Village PRIVATE LABEL SPI-RITS 44'4446J,.A,,4J.AA..t,.A.44.44,LJ, 4 4+4£44444444.44.l444*4444 -We Deliver Free- FR4-6846 schools this fall. the coaches and sports writers \'!' October 8 - Hartwick voted Bill the Most Valuable 1 October 11 - Vermont Player of the game. I b As Garnet followers are aware, , . Octo er 19- R.P.I. this type of play was not unusual ' October 25 - Colgate for Riffle last season, who com- t.',\ October 30 - Hamilton bined with Phil Canders, Bill Bow- November 18- ICAAAA man, Rudy Umscheid, and head ~­ coach Bruce Allison to produce a fine nine and three season last :. FOOTBALL SCHEDULE Spring. His senior year total of · 240 saves gave him 579 for his '•'September 28 St. Lawrence three year career in the Dutch- man nets. Both of these stand as 4 Union college records, and al- ~­ though Bill can't claim a single game scoring mark, his 26, 29, and 30 save performances will long be remembered by Garnet fans. October 5 *October 12 October 19 *October 26 Alfred Roches tel' R. P.I. Hobart November 2 November 9 *November 16 *home game Williams Susquehanna Hamilton ';I'he Man)lasset, L. I. +esident will be working with the lacrosse squad at Lehigh University next spring while earning credits to- ward his Masters Degree in Physics. Patronize Our Advertisers 20 WASHER'S . . . . - WASH 2Sc - DRY IOc Norge Laundromat 25 PARK PLACE (1 Block West of West College) RITZ REST AU RANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featurinq: HOME STYLE IT ALlAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & large Parties - Try O·ur Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week ~·._.. Both off formations coach Mar: the varsity ers frequer tricacies of never gain of the gal chance for themselves and an eqt for all Gar1 a team tha toughest o test. Those in troduced tc bile offens coach Mal swift fleet :present th• rection of you won't~ aren't any rants the swing back The pro! able and il net specta addition tc WRUC football g: r They ar- Sat., Oc1 Sat. 1 Oc· Sat., N< iams. Bob Ric do the pl~ D &J 1 BRA Wt- NE Jus1 Slim Cord Ol Si: ~ We gl• ~

0, 1963 Friday, September 20, 1963 5 Sparkling Sophomores Spearhead Season Success I by Rick Engles Tomorrow at two o'clock the an exception. Fot· it appears that · th Aihimy this their osen L~ ,- .~~ ·. ·. \• • ·<~< d. Coach Schmid, end Pete Wenger, Coach Lawrence, guard Pat Fan- tauzzi, and coach Maras confer on the sidelines. Pete and •Pat are two of the Garnet's toughest defensive players and are sure to give opposition a generous dose of their brutality during the season. · ~quadStruggle Is Satisfying Maras Sponsors ~. Football Clinic ~ An athletic first at Union is to: ble I . be introduced on Alexander Field. \It was a good workout. We Q . . today at 5:00 P.M. as head coach still have a way to go on timing ended last ! Joe Maras will initiate a program and blocking, but I liked the way d 1 ~ that he has considered for several the boys were hitting out there.\ n annua 'I years. In the beilef that knowl- That's how Union College foot- game was il edge of college football in gen- ball coach Joe Maras summed up ~ ew York. i araJ and an understanding of · ed the best • \ the more than two hour mtra- the North ; Garnet football in particular will. squad scrimmage on Library >arts. from ·~ a1·ouse interest and inspire en- Field Saturday afternoon. h thusiasm, the Union College Ath- t e latter i letic Association will present a Maras Pleased lrs had ex- ' t t 1' · Maras said he was pleased with ·n college's 1,j spec a or c m1c. B th ff · d d f · the progress of several players, Bill. R. iffle. , 1 ·l o o ens1ve an e ens1ve. f t . t b I · d b including halfback Terry Dutton, hern hopes orma 1ons are o e exp ame y battle. Of 1 coach Maras and illustrated by whose slashing, twisting type of n the nets : the varsity gridmen. Grandstand- open field running has not been ad thl's to . ers frequently miss the real in- seen on a Union team for longer I f b 11 d th f than most fans care to remember. <ens in this tricacies of oot a , an ere ore \ · 1 · t'on . Other players singled out by ;tar is put never gam any rea apprecm 1 f th Th . · 'd 1 Maras were tackle Syd Decker, first time . o e game. 1s 1s an 1 ea h f f h t · t who has improved in his offensive incts. This 1 1 c ance or res men o aquam . h h 1 'th 11 f tb 11 play·, quarterback Tom Hitc - .ie Bill.Rif- ·1 t emse ves Wl co ege oo a , d 11 d P tun 'ty cock, who led the Garnet team to who made ., an an equa y goo o por 1 • f II G t t f t t victorl o-ver the Grey w1th two rrg five in ~ or a arne spor s ans o mee d count to a team that should give even the touch own passes; en s Pete h t 't' 1 Wenger, John Soper, and Paul ~as a leap- ·I toug es opposl wn a rea con- d 11 d t F d Th Woo e · ; an cen er re om- for the I test. h \' . I . 1 · as, w o IS commg a ong mce y lash late in I Those in attendance will be m- on offense.\ · · some me- troduced to a new and highly mo- Dutton, on the Grey team, Syracuse 1 bile offensive backfield of which scored on a ten-yard run for the tt the as- 11 coach Maras speaks highly. A first touchdown of the afternoon. mwd to its swift fleet of offensive backs will Hitchcock then uncot·ked a 50 1d half For present themselves under the di- yard pass to halfback Ed Kess- erformance rection of two quarterbacks, but ler to even the score. Halfback ~ts writers \'' y.ou won't see any fullbacks. There 1 AI Hrdlicka put the Garnet ahead t Valuable 1 aren't any. New personnel war- on a 25-yard field goal, and then I rants the exclusive use of a Hitchcock and Kessler put on a swingback this year. t f th' t' 25 are aware, rrot unusual , who corn- s, Bill Bow- > · The program will be both valu- repea per ormance, · IS lme G Y ards out. ' ~,\ abie and interesting for the ar- net spectator and is a welcome Defense Is Rough I , addition to the athletic progr&m. If the some 300 fans who lined Union College gridders unoffi- Union's first team is stronger cially begin their 1963 football than it has been in a great num- season with a scrimmage against her of years, but it is unable to what should be a strong and well draw much support from the balanced Wesleyan eleven. Con- bench. The Dutchmen's chief sidering last year's contact be- weakness is their lack of depth, • tween the Dutchmen and the Car- which will become apparent if an dinals of Middletown, Connecti- injury does occur, and most par- cut, Saturday's encounter on ticularly in the line. Alexander F·ield promises to be Coach Joe Maras now in his both excit~ng and reveal in&\· l 1 fourth year as head 'coach at Un- Just pi'! or to the opemng of· ion, appears to be happier this las~ year's football season the 1 fall than he has been in quite a Umon t7a!ll trave_led to WesleJ:an I few years. The team was hit hard for a stm!lar scnmmage. Durmg last year by graduation which saw the \gam~ conditions\ sequence Union College's Little All•Ameri- of the scnmma~e, !he Dutchn:en can Dave Eales leave with a large ca.me from behmd m the closmg number of other fine players. Ac- mmutes o.f !?lay to scn~e a touch- cording lo Coaeh Maras this down and ol the then sophomore i year's tPam's \lack of experi- AI:t Marsh.all hootPr~ the extra i ence\ can be more than oven·omf.' pomt to. gam a. ?-6 VI dory. . by its \desire and pride as a The fmai grtdiron encounter of team.\ This year's squad will de- the ~wo schools saw the frosh velop a more balanced attack Ca~dmals stun the freshmen of than that of last year. Umon College here on Alexander Field by the overwhelming score Two Part Scrimmage .;:~~~/{(.~· .. \'''\ ,,;x-t>fo A Garnet tackler brings down a teammate during a recent practice session. Tough defensive play will be a keynote of this season's action. of 37-6. The lose to Wesleyan was Saturday's scrimmage will be up most of the work at the end Maras has two fine quarterbacks the first and only lose handed the divided into two parts. The first position. Perhaps the weakest. in junior Joe Stevens and soph young Dutchmen. half will consist of a \controlled\ slot on the team is at tackle. Let- Tom Hitchcock. Ed Kessler is New Blood Dominates scrimmage in which one team terman and junior John Harvy is playing swingback in piace of in- Returning to the campus after will control the ball for a certain returning to fill one of the spots, jured Art Marshall. Injured half- last year's disappointing 1-7 sea- number of plays after which the while sophomore Pete Lichten- back Steve Hopkins will soon be son, Union College's 1963 foot- ~aplploslt~~n bfo;u~~edeq~:~r n~mi!~ .stein and John Morrison will vie back, until then sophomore Terry ball team is drawing its strength of plays. The second half of the at the other tackle position. Sen- Dutton will see some action. A from the twenty-two sophomores, . 1 d d ior Pat Fantauzzi, one of the sev- great deal of the heavy ball carry- and eleven juniors that dominate scrimmage WI I be playe un er en returning lettermen, has been ing is expected to be done by jun- the roster of thirty-seven Garnet \game conditions\ which will test given the assignment of anchor- ior and past Dutchman-of-the- gridders. On:ly seven lettermen the true performance of both ing the Union line at his guard week, Brendan Hutchinson. AI are returning. The sophomore teTh:- entire College will be position. Pat is returning this Hrdlicka will also see action as squad consists of almost the same happy to hear that Union's asso- year apparently completely re- halfback. players who last year as fresh- ciation with Albany Pharmacy covered from the injury which ~:::::::;::;::::::;;:;::::::::::::;::::::;;:;:::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::; men finished with a successful will bear fruit this fall. Two stu- sidelined him in the first contest 3-1 season; a season which saw lailt year for the entire season. them defeat the frosh of the Uni- dents from Albany are making Sophomore Ray List will play the versity of Vermont who had been the daily trip to Schenectady in remaining guard position left unbeaten in over four years. hopes of playing for Union. Ed open by the injury of letterman While Saturday will be Union's Kessler is doing a fine job at Rick Engles. Bill Graves and Tom first autumn action, the same swingback and should see plenty Morgan will also see action in. cannot be said for Wesleyan of action tomorrow. Fred Thorn- the guard slot. Fred Thomas has which has already performed in as has stepped in to fill the hole stepped in to fill the shoes of the a scrimmage against Southern made by the injury to John Wil- injured John Wilson at offensive h h son at center. h B b D'M' h 1 Connecticut College. Per aps t e It is expected that Joe Maras. center. Sop omore o 1 Ic ae most important thing for the U.C. will be out to let a great deal of will be center and linebacker fan to watch for tomorrow is the when Union is on defense. Coach condition of her new team. The his boys see action on S~turday ------------- new substitution rule which will as he attempts to make his final ~-----------~ go into effect this year is aimed decision for a starting line-up · at control of the two platoon sys- when the Dutchmen officially open tem in college football. Although the fall season a week from to- there is greater leeway for sub- morrow against St. Lawrence here on Alexander Field. stitution it means that, for the <Sophomore Marc Hurlbut, jun- . most part all players must be ior John Soper, and senior letter- able to go on both offense and defense. The tired football play- man Pete Wenger will be dividing er is usually the player who is ili!~liiJliiJ!jjll!JI!iJ~Ii!lm~~IBI~:rii easily injured. Injuries have al- ll!l ~ ways cost the Union gridders ll!l Shaver Serv·lce ~ dearly and this year will not be ~ ~~ sophomore halfback, sprained his li!l ankle. Other than that, there were ll!l Repairs & Sales on ~~ only the normal aches, pains and I bruises which follow any workout li!l all makes of of this type. ll!l li!l KNAPP SERVICE LTDm Erie Blvd. & Liber.ty St. Phone Dl 6-5900 COMPLETE VOLKSWAGON & IMPORTS PARTS AND SERVICE • Jack's Corner We Specialize in -PIZZA- • STEAK AND SAUSAGE SANDWICHES -Orders To Take Out- FR 7-9898 1555 Va.n Vranken , and head • produce a season last ar total of· 579 for his the Dutch- the field or sat on the terrace of ··\ the N ott Memorial were looking WRUC will carry three away for \hardnose\ football, they football games this season. should have left feeling they got They Jre·.. more than their money's worth. The scrimmage marked the end ~ Electric Shavers li!l of twice-a-day p1•actice for the I team. With classes having started lt on Monday, the team will p1·ac- I Phone FR 4-9741 1t tice only at 5 p.m. ll!l I Most of next week will be spent 1!!1~ 724 V2 STATE STREET ~ on offensive timing and the vari- lt!l Moving Oct. 1st, To 1000 State St. College Students Faculty Members Prlrsted Irs se stand as · ··~; s, and ai- m a single his 26, 29, mnces will by Garnet I. resident ;he lacrosse ·ersity next credits to- Degree in sers IT .. It was seldom that only one play- Sat., Oct. 5-Union at Alfred er was involved in a tackle for either team. Three to five was Sat., Oct. 19-Union at R.P.I. more the rule, and the noise of Sat., Nov. 2-Union at Will- the players' pads and helmets iams. crashing into each other could be heard clearly across the field. Bob Rice and . Dave Braff will Only one player appeared to do the play-by-play, have been injured dll.ring the D & J Auto Service 1372 Union St. BRAKES - TUNE-UP WHEEL ALIGNMENT &. BALANCE Dl 6•9644 NEW! Just Received Slim .Leg Corduroy Dungarees Olive, Black & Natural Sizes 29-36 Waist 3.99 • 334 State St. We gladly Cash your checks scrimmage. George LaPorte, a ONE DAY SERVICE CAMPUS CLEANERS All Work Done on Premises PICKUP AND DELIVERY 527 Noll St., Schenectady, N. Y. Opp. Union College Phone EX 3-5472 Wally's Diner • Home Made Pies Good Coffee • 325 Erie Blvd. Open Daily 5 A.M. 7 P.M. ous defensive formations that the ~~ll!l~lmli!lllllli!lml!!lmll!l~~~ BOSTOH LOSANGB.ES LOKDOH team will use this season. ' . SAVE ON OWN BRANDS! OJJUJ' . [11.t]k6muli'A liquor Store 511 UNION ST. EX 3-3111 EX 3-3110 8 VV Lant:~ 1723 Van Vranken Avenue STUDENT RATES 8 College libraries SUBSCRIBE HOW AT HALF PRICE 35c per game up till6 P.M. on Weekdays 45c per game after 6 P.M. and Weekends Clip this advertisement and return It with your check or money arder to: 'tbe Christian Science Monitor 8 BAR ON PREMISES FREE SHOES ( Sdve 25c l to College Students 8 Jay Jewelry 315 STATE STREET ::Diamon~ . • , One No1war St., Bostors 1S, Mass. 0 1 YEAR $11 0 6 mos. $5.50 0. COLLEGE STUDENT 0 FACULTY MEMBER P-CN Co. Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wh~lesaler. Arnold Fisher 'SO

6 Friday, Saptember 20, 1963 ETH Grants. Courses Doctorate Offered New Profs ••• · Alumni Award Promotions History ••• (Continued fl'om Page 1) . (Continued from Pa.ge.l) (Continued from Page 1) · (Continued from Page 2) ceived his A.B. from Franklin which had more than one third Lander, a psychology major, To Lowen and Marshall and his M.F.A. from of their members below the level works with youth groups in the ably find themselves very com- Syracuse. At Syracuse he· served· of achievement that is considered YMCA, Schenectady. Both Mil- fortable with the earlier, \purer\ · The language and history of· as Assistant to the Director of ·minimal for good standing within sky and Morgenstern a:re pre- forms and should certainly look · Russia and China will be taught Public Administration Program.s Union ·College.\ meds and Ruschmeyer has his into-or listen into-some of the in courses offered by the Union d c · · D\ · · II d\ t\ d b W\th an am pus Coordinator of Fed- Four fraternities, Pso Upsl\lon • maJor m lVlSIOn . . recor mgs men wne a o:ve. , 1. 'fhe Eidenoessiche Technische College Evening Division during 1 c 11 · th t · 1 f · t t · h era o ege Intern Programs. Phi Delta Theta, Sigma Phi,. and e presen rev1va o 1n eres 1n Hochschule of Zurich, Switzer• t e fall semester, according to Th Pl ton· D\ logue Tl t f lk · th d th MaJ·or Bruce D. Ferr 1 \er w 1 ·11, Kappa Alpha, said the report, h.ad e ·a 1 C Ia . 1ae e- o mus1c, ese men an o ers land, has awarded a doctor of Dr. John R. Haines, director of t t I t d b T lo· L ·s h b d d t 1 th _, · replace Colonel Cawse Morgan in failed to achieve an average in-· us, rans a e Y ay r ew1 • ave een recor e a en,g · · anti science degree to Professor Walter specml programs. the Department of Air Science. dex of 2 • 0 or better. For this rea- was published last Spring by the with comparative freedom . in Lowen of the Union College me-. Chinese la-b will be taught by Ferrier, who recel·ved hl\s A.B. • son they h. ave lost their sGcial IDOL. It is now available at no the i r selection of material. chanical engineering department.· th R S 1 h t t·h tude ts and faculty M t •t• t · e ev. tan ey Yin, associate from Pittsburgh was formerly. privileges. Delta Upsilon and Sig- · c · arge o · e s n · · · any oppor um 1es o expose A specialist in nuclear reactor minister of The First Reformed Air Operations Officer with the ma Chi, the report continued,. of Union College. Copies may be onesself to this earlier form of shielding, Prof. Lowen wrote his Church. It will deal with the na- 7310 Air Base Wing in Frank- have been given warning that obtained from Mrs. J,ustice at the much of today's most popu:lar doctoral thesis on the back scat- \tional language, Kuo Yu, with furt, Germany before coming to their scholarship is \dangerously Student Activities Office in Old music may be found in almost tering of gamma radiation. training in the pronunciation of Union. He has been a career of- low.\ Gym Hall. . any l\ecord in the He spent the 1961-62 acadamic Northern Mandarin. It will be of- ficer in the Air Force fDr twenty Ft·aternities Praised year at ETH and acts as a co-· fered to those with a high school years. · ordinator of Union's Enginee1·ing diploma or its equivalent on Mon- Aiso added to the department .of The report congratulated three Year Abroad Program, under the days and Wednesdays from 4- Science as Assistant Professor fraternities, Phi Epsilon Pi, Phi terms of which qualified students .5:20 p.m. is .Lemu~l G. Lloyd_ Jr. Lloyd re- Sigma Delta and Theta Delta Chi enrolled in Union's five year lib- Two courses in Russian will be celved his B.A. from St. Michaels in having \continued to demon- era! arts-engineering curriculum t h b p f and previously '\as statl\oned at strate · a very high level of aug t y ro ·essor John Iwanik \ h' t\ may attend a European univer- f h Hopedale Labt·adOI' as Weapon's ac levemen · o t e Union faculty. Elementary sity during their thhd or fourth Russian will be offered on Tues- ComptroUer. \The College is trying to bring year. He also serves afi a coor- days and Thursdays from 8 : 30 _ The final new member of the· home the point that the Frater- dinator for the International As- 9 _: 50 p.m. Classes in second year Ait• Science department is Cap-. nities are responsible for the aca- sociation for the Exchange of Russian will meet at the same tain Richard R. Stadelbacker com- demic achievement of their mem- Students for Technical Experi- time. ing te Union from Wiesbaden bers. The withdrawal of social ence, a program which enables a . . Ge!\llla-ny -where he ser\•ed as' ·privileges is a step taken to em- l .f. d · · t d t t Russian Histo1•y Ofgft>red h\ \b\l\ \ \d qua I- 1e engmeermg s u en o Wing Personnel Officer. Stadel- phasize t IS responsi 1 Ity, sa1 work for a foreig.n technical firm Prof. Manfred Jonas will teach bacher received his B.S. from Dean Pollock. The Dean stated [ during the summer between his the history of Russia from the Ohio State. that substantial improvement this , junior and senior years. ninth century to the present on year is imperative. He is, how- I Services Recognized Mondays from 7-9:30 p.m. Two Coaches Appointed ever, confident that the students I Prof~ Henry Ferguson is offer- Union's new swimming coach will live up to expectations, that In June he was recipient of the 1 · T T Union I ing a course in Asian history rep acmg ony urner is Instruc- no further action will be neces- College A umni Council's t R b t vd · B d I 1 d I since the coming· of Western in- or o e1· -\' wm eau ry Jr. sar\ and that the Scholarship annua awar to a facu ty mem- B d 1 d h \ I fluence On Wednesdays fl ·om \\t-· eau ry was 1ea coac of swim- Improvement A ward will be pre- her for meritorious service to the· · d college. 9:30 p.m. mmg adn · assistant coach of soc- sented again next year. cer an lacrosse at Hamilton. He He received a bachelor of me- Persons wishing more informa- holds a B.S. from the State Uni- chanical engineering degr~e from tion about these and other courses versity at Cortland and an M.S .. North Carolina State College in offered at night should contact from Indiana. 1943 and a Master of science in the Evening Division Office in The final new member of the diesel engineering degree from Andrew Carnegie Hall. Registra- faculty is Assistant Professor El- the same institution in 1947. tion ho\ll\S are from 9 a.m. to 4 wyn Leroy Evans, whD will re- Lowen has been a member of p.m. through Friday this week place Carl Witzel as Head Bas- th U . f It . 1947 and Monday-Friday next week. ketball coach. Evans was f.ormer- e mon acu Y smce · Evening hours are from 7-9- to- 1 night and Tuesday through Thurs- Y Director of Athletics, teacher Alcove Moved day :next week. Registration will of Physical Education and head close- on Friday, Sept. 13, and basketball coach at Herkimer classes will sta1·t on Monday, High School. s t 16 . As a final note in the changes ep · · m the faculty this year Director Since the end of the spring term, the mezzanine and first floor of Schaffer Library have sections have been included in the undergone several changes in ar- main reading room. Alternate rangement. book racks have been removed of Development David Bergmark has ·left the Union College fac- ulty to serve as Director of De-l velopment at Bennington College. Mother Ferro's TimE {:t;ni~.­ Jt;wt;lt;I'S \Your Jeweler Away From Home'·' BUY WITH CONFIDENCE 428 State St. FR 4-0183 Restaurant The mezzanine l\ec;ei.ved the from the reference section to most notable face lifting. It is end the problem of blocking the now a leisure reading area with aisle when large volumes are tak- newspapers and periodicals on dis- en from the shelves. Books in the play. Four record players with 300-400 Dewey decimal category earphones for private listening are now in the basement. are located there along with the There will be a new collection Chi Psi alcove which was moved of light reading material on the from the Reading Room. main floor available for one week Sp~ciali\Zing in Italian • American food Time Center Jewelers The bibliography and indices ~l:oa:n:·===========:; JOE'S. Barber Shop • 18 JAY ST. {Opposite Post Office) Unitarian Church 1221 Wendell Avenue Minister: William Gold Sermon: A Critical Evaluation of Education \The purpose of all educa- tion is to help students live their own lives.\ Sunday Service 10:30 a.m. We invite you to visit our church. ACME BARBER SHOP 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers Catering fo Union College Students W t;lt:oD1~ 13at:k F~lends! OUR PRICES HAVE NOT CHANGED THEY ARE STILL THE BEST YET! New Student Rates- CHINO PANTS LAUNDERED (2 OR MORE} SHIRTS 39c 20c SUITS -------98c JACKETS -----49c PANTS ------49c SWEATERS ---49c Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5294 Just Around the Corner from Mohawk NatiOJncil Bank • Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. HOSPITALITY 428 State Street AND Convenient terms arranged to fit Today' s most interesting students read The New York Times ·wh;v don't you? You'll find it a rewm·ding daily addition to your college day~ and studies. It keeps ;.'ou on top of today'10 exciting events ... help:'~ you in a variety of cour~e~ ... give8 yo]J: vitarback- ground for di~cussions in and out of the classroom., Why not sign up for a subscrip- .. \' l tion today? You'll like the conven- ience of campus delivery of The N ev·i York Times ... to read and e'njoy before classes begin and at your leisure throughout the day. Your New York Times campus representative will be glad to serve you with a copy early every morning at special college r·ates. DAVE DENTON Sigma Chi 1471 Lennox Road Phone: Dl 6·9582 PRICES FR 4-0183 budget FO I T( .. Vol. 93 ,.,; Adt H( ., p Union 'uing its tial build tion of l . 1 _~ tial quae end of J. thought have hot .. .1! • I r .. I \ • 1, •• .. 4 · licly, it is build1ngs the presen tecture, \\ .. early eig: will be c• mond Hot general s: campus; 1 Richmond planned. It is ex of these I: ·• layout; tl sleeping rooms for five frate: ,. where on be housec This is campus < like activ With the . units the • residentia and Nor House an the trian1 nue, Lib Lane; an• Avenue. • of the C< Garden a This wi er to its ing vehi •. academic Vehicular where it imeter o: -~ residence; College t , attain . Filn: ·Mttk The 19( Series wi >'l· tober 4 ' 400 Blov Larry H· Advisor a ReJected ' season • April 24. ·• I 400 B deals wi1 of youth in a wor to shut i ed to be biograph Truffaut escence. Follow ! Leopold J,·· skin on • f. ed by S: 1 : for Nove in the ~ cember ( . ~ ~ · , . 1 ease, 8; won the tival Co1 tion pict a specia pation a· Festival. first ser another 11 based o Fvodor which \ 10. Films semeste1 Februar ruary 2: That Ru l 1 Year at All fi1 I 22 of t: '-' Buildin~ The se1 Lecture: tee.

2) com- ' \purer\ look of the With in others ll,gth and in material. expose form of popular almost ountry. .. .. -; .. .• i FOOTB.ALL RALLY TONIGHT! Vol. 93 ........ No. 2 Union College is contin- · Founded at Union College zn 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1963 'uing its program. of residen• . tial building with the excava- tion of a projected res!den- tial quadrangle at the south end of AchH.les Field. Al- though the architects' plans . have hot yet been revealed pub- • . licly, it is expected that the new build1ngs will be in keeping with · the present styie of campus archi- tecture, which dates back to the early eighteen hundreds. They will be complementary to Rich- mond House and will add to the general symmetry of the central campus; this was in mind when Richmond House was originally planned. I It is expected that the interiors of these buildings will be in suite ·~ layout; that is, four men to a sleeping room, with two study rooms for the four men. Four or five fraternities now located else- ,. where on and off the campus may be housed in the new buildings. Campus Zoned This is in line with the modern rampus concept of \zoning\ of like activities in adjoining areas. With the completion of these new . units there will be three main • residential areas - West, South, and North Colleges, Richmond House and the new units; one in the triangle between Union Ave- nue, Library Lane, and North Lane; and the third along Lenox A venue. The remaining perimeter of the College is bounded by the Garden and athletic fields. This will bring the College clos- er to its ultimate goal of remov- ing vehicular traffic from the • academic center of the College. Vehicular traffic will be centered where it should be, along the per- imeter of the College; with the ,. residences on the perimeter of the College this goal will be easier to , attain. ·Film>~- Series · Mttke-s Debut Th~ 1963-64 Union College Film Series will make its debut on Oc- 1'1· tober 4 with Francois Truffaut's 400 Blows. Program organizer Larry Horowitz '65, and Faculty Advisor A. Eliot Youman have 'll ,;elected ten films for the current season which will run through April 24. 400 Blows, a French release, deals with t~e universal problem of youth trymg to find its place in a world that seemingly wants to shut it out; the film is accept- ed to be more or less of an auto- biographical record of Director Truffaut's own turbulent adol- escence. Five Fall Films By Rick Engles The Dutchmen of Union College officially open their 1963 football season Saturday at 2:00P.M. on Alexander Field where they will meet St. Lawrence University of Canton, New York, on home turf for the first time in three • years. The Dutchmen have not I been able to beat St. Lawrence Cheerleader since 1949, when they boasted an S undefeated season under present Amherst head coach, John Me- A Ch g d Lowry. Union's best attempt since . re . an e . that date was a 7-7 tie in 19?0. The Garnet - St. Lawrence senes Although fa1·ing well in most was dormant between 1953-1960. fields of endeavor of the well- Tomorrow's game will mark the Larries second attempt at victory rounded college, Union has long in the young 1963 fall season. been felt to be somewhat derelict in one most important field- GIRLS. Last Spring Jack Sei- fert, then President of the Fresh- man Class, and several other members decided to set up a joint cheerleading squad of Union--men and Skidmo1•e girls. There will be a football rally behind Richmond on Friday, be- fore the St. Lawrence game, at 8:00 P.M. The team will be pres- ent and Coach Maras will speak to the crowd. The team is de- pending on your participation at this rally. Don't let them down. This nucleus was then rein- forced by many campus leaders who wished to help whip up cam- pus enthusiasm. Although the group, now associated with the Union College Cheerleaders Club has little experience, they hope to be supported by the rest of the student body. The final ac- tion was taken last Friday when, with the help of Miss Green, the head of the S):ddmore Physical Education Department, twelve girls were selected from a field of sixty-three for places on the squad. Rally Behind Riehmond \We hope that this group will g-et the acceptance it deserves,\ . said Jack Seifert, of the group. \On Saturday every student should be there to cheer the team on. We exnect the Fresh- men, and also the upperclassmen, . ta form two lines for the team to run out between. Tonight at 8:00 behind Richmond House there will be a rally. We are looking forward to a good turn- out.\ _ Bookstore's Move Nears Contpletion Following 400 Blows will be t Leopold Torre Nilsson's Summer- j skin on October 18. Devi, direct- t ed by Satyajit Ray, is sched1,1led ' J' for November 1. The fourth film in the series, to be shown De- cember 6, is the 1960 Russian l'e- Among the other men associ- ated in this group are: Skip Eames; Vic Fazio; Trace Hart- man; Terry Hannock, the organi- zation's field captain; Mark Thomas; Rusty Mackey; Mike Miller; and Gary Morris. l Also Jeff Ratner, Toby Lus- tig, Howie Wiedman, Bob Cud- deback, and Dan Prigmore. ,. lease, Ballad of a Soldier, which won the San Francisco Film Fes- tival Competition as the best mo- tion picture. This film also won a special prize for best partici- pation at this year's Cannes Film The Russell Sage freshman Festival. The last offering of the class will be here tomorrow for first semester will be The Idiot, a mixer. After their arrival in The New site of the college bookstore. By Albert V. Nahmias another Russian film, which is the early afternoon, they will be 11 based on part of the novel by admitted at no charge with their Fvodor Dostoevsky. The Idiot Union dates to the Union-St. As a result of the planned de- w1.0h.ich will be shown on January Lawrence football game. molition of Washburn Hall, the Union College bookstore is in the F 'l h d 1 d f h. d After the football game the midst of its move to the basement 1 ms sc e u e or t e secon frosh wt'll have dt'nner at we·st f N M ' sem st · I d Th M • · o ott emorml. It is expected · e er me u e: e agician, Coll·e.,.e Dorm·t'tor. y. Bt'll Van h h' February 14: Citizen Kane, Feb- ,., . t at t IS move will be completed ruary 21; Kan~l, March 6 ; Mouse Dyke will have the Rathskellar by next Friday. On the following That Roared, March ZO; and Last open with entertainment for those Monday the bookstore will begin y t M · b d A 'l 24 who want to use it. In the even- normal operation in Nott Mem- ear a arten a • pn · ing the freshmen and their dates orial. All films will be shown in Room will be permitted in the fraterni- There are many advantages to \ '·' 22 of the Electrical Engineering ties for open house. The day .also . the new location. •Size is proba- Building at 7:00 and 9:00 P.M. marks the start of informal rush. bly the most important factor The series is sponsored by the The girls must be escorted to since more shelf space enables Lectures and Concerts Commit- their buses in the West College· textbooks to be displayed more tee. parking lot by midnight. efficiently. Mrs. Hill, th• mana- I. F. C. Begins Workshop Plan FOOTBALL RALLY TONIGHT! PRICE 15 CENTS

2 Olnnrnr Publlshe.l Fridays during the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na- tional Advertising Representative: National Advertising Service, Inc .• College Publishers Representat·ive. 420 Madison Ave .• N. Y. C. Editorial ()ffice, Old Gym, Union College Fubllcatlon Office, Sch&- nectad; P~lnt!ng Company, 602 Broadway, Entered in the Sche- nectady .Post Office as Second Class !vlall Matter. ·Subscription 15c a ~opy; $3 a. year delivered anywh•re In the United States. SENIOR BOARD DAVID BERE:SS0::-1 '64 · ··· .. . . .......... ..... .. ........ :B~!i~~~; ira~~~~; ~1~~~ ; 8 ~~~:'~~ ·· ~ :5 :::.: ............. ...... .- .. :._:_:_:· .. ::·.~: · .:::: .::::·:::::.::: ::::::~:~~~:::~:~::~~E: ig~~~~ RICHARD ·ERDOES '65 .................................... ................... Feature Editor tvi~~[A~-!~:o.;~iJ~·E·~;4··: .. ::: .. :.:::.::::.::::::::::::: .'.'.'.'.'''.'.'.''.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'~.'.'.'.'.'~.'.'.'.'.'~.'.'.'.': .............. Advisor Calendar Capers The recent decision of the Faculty to reconsider the Davidson Calendar comes as something of a shock to_ us. We bad thought that all possible objections or alternatr':es to the Davidson plan had been considered and that a SlZ- able majority of the faculty had decided that the plan would be desirable for next year. We n~w :fin~ that two- thirds of the same faculty would like to mvestlgate a cal- endar plan to replace Davidson's. This is indeed a be- wildering turn of events. . , . . For a college newspaper editor 1t rs difficult and. per- haps a little presumptuous to attempt to analyze t~e mner workings of faculty decision-making. However! smce the calendar is a matter that vitally affects the entire campus community, we feel that it is our duty to clarify th.e _fac~s as we know them. A brief history of calendar revisiOn 1s in order. When the Development Program was started thr_ee years ago, calendar revision was one of the ~atters dis- cussed but no plan was considered as more desirable than the pr~sent two semester system. Then, in December of 1961 President Davidson submitted his plan for two twelve week semesters with a shorter six week period between them for students to concentrate on either one full-year course or two semester course. This plan, if accepted, was planned to be put into effect by the fall of 1963. A faculty committee headed by Profess?r Baker of the Physics Department investigated the Davi~son Cale~dar and came to the conclusion that it was techmcally feasible. The Faculty Council went farther. an~ deci~ed that the plan was desirable provided it was mstl~uted m tb~ fall ~f 1964 in order to give the faculty more tune to revise therr courses for the new conditions. Last June the proposal was presented to the Board of Trustees who agreed to acquiesce to the manifested desire of the faculty. As of now, the Davidson Plan is officially scheduled ~or ne~t year, and the public relations office is engaged m publi- cizing it. During this past summer four members of the faculty attended a conference on calendar planning and came to the conclusion that although the Davidson Calendar had advantages over the preset arrangement a trimester sys- tem similar to that at Dartmouth would be best. Under this program each student would take three courses for each of three ten-week trimesters. Thus, we are now at a point where the faculty is investigating a completely ne:w program, and unless very quick action is taken there w11l be no calendar change at all next year. . We appreciate the concern of the faculty to produce the best possible calendar for Union College. However, we must express a certain concern over the procedures the faculty has used up to now. A trimes~er plan wa.s proposed three years ago. We wonder why it did not rece1ve gr~ater support. It has been almost two years since the DaVIdson Calendar was presented. We wonder why other alterna- tives were not investigated then instead of just recently. The faculty told the Board of Trustees last June that they definitely favor the Davidson Calendar. We wonder how the trustees will react if the faculty now tells them they did not really mean what they said. A few clear facts have emerged from the whole dis- turbed situation. There is general dissatisfaction with the \lame-duck\ period after Christmas. There is an impera- tive need for re-evaluation of the curriculum. There is the clear fact that knowledge does not com.e wrapped in fifteen week compartments. One other fact is becoming clearer as time passes. No one calendar will l:le perfect. in all re- spects. There are advantages and disadvantages to both the Davidson and Dartmouth plans. Wllat will make either succeed or fail is the spirit in which the faculty and stu- dents enter them. If the faculty decides to teach the best it can, unafraid to try new experiments, and the students decide to take advantage of all the opportunities presented them, almost any plan will Work. If this spirit is not pres- ent, no plan, no matter how well planned, will have the slightest chance o£ succeeding. CONVOCATION CRe.OIT \? I I ·S~f_.- Opportunities Open For Foreign Study By Bob Hoffman It is recorded for posterity in the 'Cnion College Bulletin, cata- logue issue 1963-1964 that\ 'Sche- nectady,' agreed George Clinton, the first governor of New York State, and the petitioners for a college from the frontier counties west of the Hudson River, '(is) in every respect the most suitable and commodious place for 8f semin- ary of learning in this state, or perhaps in America.' \ In 1795, sixteen years after Clinton peti- tion, that \most suitable and com- modious place\ saw the founding of Union College. Thus, from its very inception, Union College has been aware of the significance geography would bear on its fu- ture. Schenectady An Admirable Site Schenectady proved to be an admirable site, indeed, for a seminary of learning. By the mid- dle of the nineteenth century the College by the Mohawk had be- come one of the great institutions in the country. Comparatively isolated, Schenectady retained its ties with the growing American society through the ribbon of wa- ter built by the earlier Clinton's grandson, the Erie Canal. What >vent on beyond the scope of the canal, beyond the ocean, in fact, was communicated to the men of Union through the network of scholars that traveled and wrote of the world's development. Isola- tion from the affairs of everyday life was a part of the merit of the location. Today L\nion is no longer a frontier colleg-e, drawing- its stu- dent body from the rural areas of upper New York State. Twen- tieth Century Schenectady is an industrial town of ninety-thous- and, set in the heart of the heav- ily populated tri-city community. While the city of Schenectady is by no means a total cultural void, much of the culture of the city stems from, rather than is avail- able to, Union College. Geog- raphy is no longer so kind to Union; its location in the hinter- lands is a handicap in a world that is constantly growing more cosmopolitan. The foreign ex- change and foreig'll study pro- grams available to students are part of the college's answer to the problem. Traditional Exchange The traditional exchange with St. Andrews University, in Scot- land, entails selection of an out- standing student entering his jun- ior year. The selection is made by a committee of faculty, St. Andrews alumni, and the Presi- dent. Customarily the selection is made from the top twenty-five students in the sophomore class. The Eigen .. Tech .. Hochschule acepts outstanding Union College students entering their junior year While most who participate in this program are five year Lib- eral Arts-Engineering students, it is open to all Science majors with a background in the German lan- guage. Selections for this pro- gram are made in the Fall term of the applicant's sophomore year. Fundamental requirements include a Dean's List index. Interested students should contact Professor Lowen in Carnegie Hall. Any student entering his junior year may study at the university of his choice abroad provided he has a Dean's List index at Union and is accepted at the foreign university. Dean William Huntley empha- sized the value of this program in modern education. \I am very much in favor of study abroad and encourage all interested stu- dents to look into the possibilities of spending their junior year abroad.'' Letter to th.e Editor To the Editor, Coucordiensis: As the chairman of a relatively new and rather quiet little group known as the Bookstore Commit- tee, I hope I may be permitted a few word11 in answer to last week's editorial and letter about the bookstore. That all the policies of the bookstore are not all that they could be, many of us would agree. Some improvements have been made in the last few years, how- ever, and we hope to see more, though perhaps the rate of these changes will not always please the impatient. Meanwhile, however, we could all help by getting the facts straight. If, for instance, Mr. Hoffman knows of any specific titles which are actually being sold at above list price, I would like to know about them. If he has no such titles in mind, then I wish he would be more careful in his language. And if he knows of \more than enough\ students who are dependable and consist- (Continued on Page 6) Ca1npus Briefs SEPTEMBER 28 The Freshman Class is invited to a mixer with Russell. Sage Saturday. The mixer will in- clude the St. Lawrence football game during the afternoon and a formal mixer in the evening. Tickets can be obtained from Mrs. Justice in the Student Ac- tivities Office. SEPTEMBER 30 Dean Huntley has requested that all freshmen please attend the class meeting scheduled at 12:30 P.M. Monday in Memorial Chapel. The purpose of the meet- ing is to make a final choice of freshmen advisors. Three prefei'- ences will be requested and from these three the advisor will be chosen. SEPTEMBER 30-0CTOBER 2 The I.F.C. Workshop will meet Monday, Tuesday, and Wednes- day evenings. The President, Vice President, Treasurer, Stew- ard, rushing chairman, and social chairman from each House will meet to discuss problems com- mon to each house in an attempt to bring the different fraterni- ties closer together. It is hoped that a method of improving the scholastic stand- ing of many of the fraternities will be devised. The Workshop will be terminated with a dinner in Hale House Wednesday night. OCTOBER 4 The Union program of films will begin this season with the presentation of 400 Blows at 7 and 9 P.M. in E.E. 22. This F1~ench film is a narrative of a French adolescent and his growth into adulthood. It has won several international film awards. OCTOBER 6 The annual Hillel sponsored Tri-Cities area mixer-picnic is being held in Saratoga Springs. Vassar, Skidmore, Russell·Sage, R.P.I., Siena, Hudson Valley Com-. munity College, and the Junior College of Albany have been in- vited. Tickets are available at the student activities office. Any entries for Campus Briefs should be submitted before Wed- nesday in Concordiensis mailbox in old gym. Friday, September 27 1 1963 \ ;., Friday, Se History of Jazz Social Armstrong's Influence ·•· By Thomas Krettbiel Jazz is a very young a1't form derson and this set of his record- • and this fact can be no more ings. forcefully noted than by observ- Received Top Billing • ing that many of the early mas- ters of the style are still very active and creative today. Of the many men who fall into this cate- gory Daniel Louis Armstl'Ong, known also as \Satchmo is un- doubtedly the most widely recog- nized. To many people throughout the world he is the personifica- tion of Other, especially a · g-ood number of younger \seri- ous\ afficiona- dos, c on 1;1 i d e r him to be at best a charming iam1chronisrn and more often a vaude v ill i an with little musi- worth and less taste. An interesting point these views in many cases spring from the same type of Armstrong perform- ance, specifically, those of the novelty numbers which have be- come a very popular part of his repertory. Played Second Comet If one wishes to properly as- sess the importance of Louis Armstrong to the jazz scene in general, however, one must go back at least as far as 1922,. the year when Armstrong took the position of second cornet with the band of Joe \King\ Oliver. It was during this pei'iod that Arm- strong first came to the attention of the public. The \breaks\ which he and King Oliver improvised to- gether made a fabulous impres- sion on all those who heard them and the band was definitely a popular success. Some excellent recordings from this period are available today on Epic LP 16003 and on Rive1·side 130 both under King Oliver's name. Riverside also has available their #122: Louis Armstrong, 1923. These re- cordings are of abysmally low fi- delity, but the high level of the music on them makes them avery good investment in spite of the poor sound. In 1924 Louis joined Fletcher Henderson's Orchestra for a year and toured and recorded exten- sively with it. These and other fine Henderson recordings are now available on a set of four Columbia LPs under the title of The Fletcher Henderson Story, A Study in Frustration (C4L-19). In future columns we will have more to say concerning Fletcher Hen- EXCLUSIVE EUROPEAN FILMS1 Down to Louis', let us go, Let the Jager freely flow. By 1926 Louis Armstrong was being billed as \The W m·ld's Greatest Trumpet Pl.ayer\ and he began that first series of classiclt recordings under his own name. I.t was through these records that he earned a world wide reputa- · tion. He was joined on theset records by such men as· Eat'! Hini'S (whose big band in the ! forties included Dizzy Gillespie, • Charlie Parker, Bennie Harris, 4 Shadow Wilson and other pdme movers in the \bop !'evolution\· of . the late forties and early fifties), · Baby Dodds, Johnny Dodds, Kid : Ory, and Zutty Singleton. Forioo the interested listener, Coiumbia has reissued these records on four LPs, CL 851 through GL 854, 1 which are collectively titled \The , ( ' Louis Armstrong Story.'' . ' ; It was not too long after the : last of these recordings that Arm- ;. strong turned to fronting big , i bands and using popular songs\ 4 rather than blue or ol'iginal com- positions as his basic material. And in many cases these orches- tras did not meet the standards<~ of his earlier work. Except for a few sides for Decca with men like ' Sidney Dechet and Lonnie Jdhn- • son, his recorded output at .this., time was of little lasting interest. Recent Rejuvenation The year 1947 marked a rejuv- enation; Armstrong once mo;re be- 11 gan leading a small group. Do not infer, from the above statements, · that Armstrong's power as a jazz : trumpeter in any way declined during the thirties. He iust had 3 less of a chance to display it properly within the context of the groups he led. It was like s.etting a flawless diamond in fine surgt-~ cal steel, a sort of perfection is attained, but who needs it? Arm- strong's recent groups, under the general title of \Louis Arm- strong's All Stars\ have been 1 great popular and musical suc- cesses. Lately his recordings have been on a free lance basis and he has turned out albums for Colum4 bia, Audio Fidelity, Verve, and other labels. His \Plays W. C. Handy\ LP for Columbia should 1 be in any jazz collection ( CL,. 591). And the \Satch Plays Fats\ l for the same company ( CL 708) and the \Plays King Oliver\ for Audio Fidelity (#1930, #5930 . stereo) also deserve serious con A · sideration. The tour de force of recent Armstrong alubums, how- ever, is the one recorded on Rou- . (Continued on Page 4) \ Now Thru Wed! A New French Film Complete Shows At 7 and 9 117 Mohawk Ave., Scotia I • .\ A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT . Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. . ) The recE Pollock in demic situ, has cause< troversy. ' ternities c • low acade1 year is ur more thor< move has able. For dents of ~ Theta, Ps Phi, along Pr·esident ,. Council, h: ()rder to p: the frater the IFC. Cr.a David ' Psi Upsilo reasons b but holds the action used. OnE the action compared The polic trarily enJ ed beforel through • IFC; in power to the meas1. ed with it major tho was take houses to of urgenc situation, \\ in the caE warnings. individual ag-ainst tl than bein; the coUeg more, thE does not ternities. dents, fa< t\'1reen do will choo! advantagE • ly heedleE goals of also cites contributi aging atr I The Pr Bart Go Or~ ~He The U1 held the J ond seas< Skidmore musiciam more wer orchestra and emp ·~ only 011e istration ('OUragin~ turnover ., much sm graduatef members leave aft welcomed 1 ' tential l was rend ever, by nificant , Skidmore appearan pioneers tra to su the ensui First Havin11 marked 1 portation has now Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR .4-8917 \ I l·, major i: both Uni obtained of both E organize< For three Generations ••• Those Who Know. Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Manriue B. Granbart & Sons \\3 Union Graduates in G.raubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. fOR HONEST SERVICE AN.D GOOD JEWELRY !) While the orch• .., ing closE · schools, zation OI talists w pate in l ' and wine of the f by virtu• a~ ..

27, 1963 ~'~ 1 _. Friday, September 27, 19·63 Social Probation: tee • ., ! Fr4ternities Queried By Richard Sifton his record- • lling • ;trong· was e World's er\ and he of classici! lWn name. Jcords that • de reputa-: on t)l.ese• . as• Earl nd in the: Gillespie, ie Harris, 4 ;her pdme olution\ of . ·ly fifties), · )odds, Kid · eton. For~ Columbia ·ds on four . GL 854, 1 :itled \The ' ·.\ ) i after the i thatArm- · ~nting big :[ 1lar songs#; ginal com- materia:!. lse arches- standards• :cept for a h men like mie Jdhn- ut at this~ g interest. tion ida rejuv- :e mo;re be-e up. Do not :tatements, · t' as a jazz: Y' declined ~ just had3 display it text of the ike s.etting fine surgt-P rfection is it? Arm- under the uis Arm- lave beim' 1sical sue- dings have .sis and he t'or Colum-J> 'erve, and IYS W. C. bi:=t should 1 ction (CL.. (CL 708) lays Fats\ l >liver\ for . :o, #5930 rious con..,· e force of llms, how- don Rou-' re 4) 111 d! =itm a.nd 9 Scotia 1here ~NT :!. ur I I 0 ') The recent action taken by Dean 1 reasen and penalty were justified Pollock in dealing with the aca- I in light of the serious situation demic sitllation of the fraternities but adds that a recommendation has caused a great deal of con- for the action should have come troversy. The placing of four fra- through the IFC. Last year, a ternities on social probation for motion proposing the Dean's pol- ' low academic achievement in one icy was raised and tabled because year is unprecedented, so that a of organizational difficulties, as more thorough examination of his several lFC representatives had move has been considered 'desir- recently been installed as presi- able. For this article, the presi- dents of their houses. Also, Gar- dents of Kappa Alpha, Phi Delta . man feels that the IFC was some- Theta, Psi Upsilon, and Sigma what uncertain as to what pro- Phi, along with Michael Miller, cedme it should follow and what P1·esident of the Interfraternity outside powers should be included ,. Council, have been interviewed in in planning the policy. order to present the viewpoints of Ne\vton Concurs the ·fraternities involved and of · the IFC. Larry Newton, President of Crandall Disagrees ·Phi Delta Theta, finds Pollock's action completely justifiable. He David Crandall, President of feels that the Dean's attitude has Psi Upsilon,. fully agrees with the been systematic, lenient, and en- reasons behind Pollock's action, couragin_g but that, in light of the but holds reservations concerning unprecedented situation, a force- the action itself and the method used. One of his feelings is that ful decision was necessary. The the action was after the fact; he recently approved IFC workshop compared it to spanking a baby. program might provide a conven- T.he policy which Pollock arbi- ient vehicle for working together toward common ends in allevi- trarily enforced was not announc-. ating the present academic situ- ed beforehand and was not made ation, but Newton emphasizes the through consultation with the fact that many of the houses' • IFC; in Crandall's opinion, the problems a1·e strictly individual. power to recommend and enfo1·ce 0 h' b · h f 1 th th the measure should have remain- n t IS · asis, e ee s · at e ed with it. Another of Crandall's. workshop program is somewhat overrated. major thoughts is that the action Sigma Phi's President, Jack- was taken too swiftly for the son Sloan, also feels that the im- houses to develop any real sense 1 1 · · t'fi d b th of urgency concerning the index · posec pena ty IS JUS 1 e Y e reasons for it. He places con:fi- situation, regardless of certain, dence in Pollock's action as being , .. in the case of Psi Upsilon, vague· best for the fraternities and feels warnings. As a result, he feels, that the Dean's attitude has been individuals are being alienated one of full consideration for the against the administration rather houses. Although the workshops than being better integrated with may be helpful in some areas, he the college as a whole. Furth~r- is uncert in of their potential in more, the atmosphere at Umon connectio~ with the academic does. ;wt encourag~ ~tron~ fra- problems. termties. The . maJority <?f stu-· Perhaps the most obvious prob- dents, faced. With the choiCe ~e- lem fo1· the four fraternities in tween dormitory and house hfe, . . . will choose a house for its social conn.ectlOn ~lth their present sta- advantages and comfort, frequent~· tu.s lS rushm.g. Although a.Jl ffur • ly heedless of the true nature and wlll be holdmg date P~;trties or goals of fraternities. Crandall. o?en hous~ tomorrow ~Ight from also cites deferred t·ushing as a 8.00 to 12.00, the pres.Idents feel contributing factor in the discour- that the.Fa~l Wee~endm1ght c~use aging atmosphere. some p1act~cal problems. If ft~s?- . men are discouraged from VISit- Pollock Jusb:fied ing the houses because of the tat- The President of Kappa Alpha,. ter's restricted social status, the Bart Gorman, feels that Pollock's (Continued on Page 4) Orchestra Rehearsal ~Held at Skidmore By Robert S. Hoffman The .Union-Skidmore Orchestra held the first rehearsal of its sec- ond season on Tuesday night, at Skidmore. Approximately forty musicians from Union and Skid- more were present. Although the orchestra is open to the faculty and employees of both colleges, 'i only o11e member of the admin- istration attended. This. was dis- couraging in view of the fact that turnover of faculty and staff is ,, much smaller than that of under- graduates, and a nucleus o£ older members who would not normally leave after four years would be welcomed. The absence of po• 1 ' tential long term participants was rendered less ominous, how- ever, by the presence of a sig- nificant number of Union and , Skidmore freshmen, and the re- appearance of numerous faithful pioneers who helped the orches- tra to survive its conception, and the ensuing year of struggle. First Year Had Problems have been retained, the manage- ment has been modified. Last year the orchestra rehearsed at Skidmore on alternate Tuesdays, and was under the sole direction of Prof. Francis Carver of the Skidmore faculty. Transporta- tion for Union men was supplied by benevolent members with cars. On several occasions the number of seats available did not equal the number of players, and more were left behind. This yem• the orchestra will rehearse alternately at Union and Skid- more. It will be conducted by Prof. Curtis, who also dire.cts the Albany Symphony, at Union, and by Prof. Carver at Skidmore. Regular bus transportation has been provided. Additional Rehearsal Time As a result of the additional rehearsal time, the orchestra will present a series of concerts, in- stead of two. These will include performances on Happy Pappy (Continued on Page 4) NEED Having weathered a first year marked by attendance and trans- portation problems, the orchestra· has now established itself as the major instrumental activity at 1 .}., both Union and Skidmore. It has obtained the financial assistance , , of both schools, and is now a well 1. organized 1.1nit. YOUR SHOES REPAIRED? WE MEND SHOES •• J ALTER ODS \ tily'' :tRY f While the basic functions of the orchestra, those of establish- ing closer ties between the two . ., schools, and providing an organi· zation open to capable instrumen- talists who would rather partici- pate in an orchestra than string ' and wind ensembles to which each of the schools has been limited by virtue of shortage of players, Ideal Shoe Repair 1565 Van Vranke.n Avenue Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES 3 Virginia Integration: New Theater Ready: Conflict of Definitions Ansky Play Offered By Roland Ciaranello By Eric Levy The following are the second We discussed the demonstra- Sometime during the first half JEJ,wry of Eastern Europe, before and third articles in a len-part: tions: what were their aims? of October, the Mountebanks will the liberating forces of modern series dealing with integration . What would they prove? But move their headquarters from education hac! begun to undermine in the South. Last week's article· these, and other questions, I ~anna Hall to the Nott Memor- 1 t!1e foundation~ of the. older be- pre.sented an introduction. to the: learne~, could not be answered 1al. The new theatre, accommo-ll!ef::;. The entire play 1 s steeped ~e,n~s. Inte.g~3;tron and Its c~m-, by a smgle phrase, nor a volume. dating approximately two hun- in mystici::>m, and the author's fh~tmg deftmtiOns are ~tudt~d 1 For there are as many answers dred people, will boast both an purpose .is to draw a picture of thts week .. The next a.rtlcle IS i as. there. a~·e ~egroes--;--and e~ch I increased seating capacity and 'ife in a Chassidic community, concerned w1th an analysis of t.he 1 answer 1s l!levttab_ly lmk~d with . 1 some additional equipment. Ev- a li.fe hovel'ing on the boundary bot~om stratl!m of S~uthe~~n wh!te i t~1e crux of the Jssue: mtegra- eryone, especially Professor Win- between two worlds, the world of society> and tts relationship to m- 1 tlon. gate and Professor Girdner who reality and the faith-created tegrab.on. . : H .. ot Answered. by One. Phrase . 1 direct the pt·oductions, is very en- world of supernatural forces. D ,· tl f th 1 I I . l'1 I' . . thusiastic about the cha•nge and Briefly, the plot concerns a young few u~~{S, 1 ~ h~~:e s~cceed~d af~ i int;;::;~ati;~~: 80 ~ 1 ~ r=~~j~~· !S T~ the ~rospects for con.tinuing sue- rabbir:ical stu~ent, Chan~on, ~ho winning the confidence of two each Negro it means som.ething cess m the new locatwn. falls m love with a beautlfu.l girl, Negro students here. It was not different: a better job, a nicer I Pia s G' B . . Leah, wh? unfortunately IS at- easy; Southern Negroes, unlike home, a higher living standard, Y !Ve road Picture ready ¥etro~hecl to ar:other ma~. their Nort. hem counterparts, do equality, opportunity. But for I The two directors plan to pur- :Uprn ·b·~~rmngChof hls bel~v. etl s not express themselves freely to I an it means a better way of life, sue the practice of producing 1 ]e ~~I 1 1 a'. d anJ~n, 8·rea 1 Y a white. He is not unable to do a wa~' of life heretofore unknown plays which present a fairly broad ~loc e< .• 't lops .. Jabb 1 k,';n~ ~at~·i' so, merely reluctant. Conse- but seen, unexperienced but real- picture of the Yarious dramatic L lS h~p~r d 0 b Y ~ f 11 l atl~· ~ quently, he remains, to a large izect. I modes. On the college campus, ea. s . 0 Y' · ecause e ee s . a extent, an enigma.. For the No. rthern Negro whose I they feel that the function of the ~ 1 U ts tf:teg t? .pos~ess hJr. t Fm- Self Preservation Vital lot is generally better than their t~eatre is to offer a 1•epresenta- a. :I;• Cel. eclSI~n rs .~a e o ex~ Southern counterparts', integra- hve range of productions over erc!se u~n~on s s.pnlt, ar:d a::> In all cultures of man, self- tion means equality: the chance four years, so that the student soon as this lS ~o~e, Leah dtes. -preservation remains the first to live on a par with their white can have the opportunity to ob- . To help. pubhc1ze the produc- vital instinct. The situation here neighbors. It means equal pay ser':'e m~ny different art forms ~1on, Rabb1 Ne_w-man, one. ~f the is not so severe as to precipitate for labor. equal working condi- dunng h1s undergraduate career. forem~s~ Ame:rcan authont1es on the emergence of this instinct per tions; in short, a dissolution of an However, when something unus- Chass!dH;m, w!ll speak at the Col- se. Further south, perhaps, the economic barrier constructed pri- ual comes up, the theatre should lege. The play nee~s an enorm- social conditions require a higher marily on color. bend a little to accommodate it. o~s cast of about thirty men and degree of readiness. But racial . . . For this reason, the Mountebanks e1ght women. Many people are tension in Virginia takes a subt- Higher L!Vlllg Standards bave recently concentrated on the required to assist with lighting ler, less overt shape. Few in To the Southern Negroes, un- theatre of the Absurd. and props. Anyone interested in this wealthy, status-conscious accustomed to the Northern Ne- working with the production is city admit feelings of discrimin- groes', higher living standard, in- Vulgarity Not Diluted certain to find it a rewarding and ation. It is in the depths of the tegration represents opportunity challenging experience. Negro section that one finds if -the opportunity to send their As has often been remarked, not the truth, at least a resonable children to school, the opportun- the Mountebanks make no efforts facsimile. ity to vote, the owortunity to to dilute vulgarity or to shield The chairman was a middle- see a primitive and untenable the audience from the frankness aged university professor. I had way of life ei,adicated, and a and coarseness found in many seen him many times on campus; newer, better one substituted in moctern plays. Professor Win- his greetings had always been its place. gate, firm in his belief that the warm. I suspect this was be- It is on these definitions that purpose of the theatre is to mir- cause I was constantly with one racial conflict has developed. For ror life as it really is, feels that or the other of my friends. This to the white, both northern and vulgarity, if used to portray the is a curious and noteworthy facet southern, integration implies co- way in which a group lives, jus- of the Negro mask: his ability to existence. It is, in itself, an in- tifies itself. He maintains that disguise his awareness of any correct and unfortunately chosen if art is to remain art, it must presence alien to his own. word. To the white, integration be true. Thus, he argues that The meeting was informal and spells intermarriage, and any the criticism of the \earthiness\ brief. Most of the topics touched other undesirable racial intermin- t>videnced in The Apple is mis- upon were subjects with which I gling· which comes to mind. Con- guided; for many people mistak- was already familiar; progress sequently, the white dreads in- enly approach the theatre as if in the movement, goals for the tegration and staunchly defends it were supposed to take some future, setbacks. I did not begin his virgin daughter against the moral or ethical stand. This is to appreciate coming until after onslaught of the black hordes, not the function of theati·e. Art the meeting. It was then that while the Negro dreams of inte- is amoral and the theatre must Patronize Our Advertisers VAH CURLER MUSIC SHOP 501 State Street my two friends, myself, and the gration, and the chance to put· faithfully present it as such. It I professor turned in earnest to his kids through school. Not only' cannot impose artificial restric- RECORDS my orientation of the Negro do both sides disagi'ee over the tions on a playwright's view of. MUSIC movement. controversy, but neither knows· life. We started at the beginning for what it is he is fighting. of the movement in 1954, and re- The Dybbuk is First vl ·ewed bri'efly its history. We Spoke to Many Negroes f h Beginning November 22 and JAZZ POPS Student Discounts CLASSICS discussed the sit-ins, the boycotts, In the course o the past mont ,, running through the 26, the and even the movements prior I have spoken to many Negroes: \Mountebanks will present The to this. As is common knowledge, I have interviewed college pro- Dybbuk by S. Ansky. Written in. none of the earlier movements fessors, mailmen, field hands, 1926, it is a Jewish tragedy with I enjoyed the Negro unanimity busboys, and countless others a background of Chassidism-the .,.h1'ch has characterized this fl'om every conceivable way of ~ · I k dl Iia~s~t~g~r~e~a~t~r~e~l~ig~i~o~u~s~m~o~v~e~m~e~nt~i~n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ present attempt. With the clos- life. The questton as e was, :; ing of the Little Rock schools, basically: \What do you want • • • , ' • • ' • ' ' ' • • • • ' • • • ' • v • • ' ' 't' v ' \ v ' \\ • ' , , ,. , , ,. , , , , • Gov. Faubus triggered a reaction from integration'!\ Beneath the- which has mushroomed in both personal desires ran a unified volume and intensity. At that flow of ideas and ambitions. For time, Negroes began to see the • most, depending on their econo- bleakness of their destiny, and mic situations, their answers ex- set out on a course to alter it. (Continued on Page 4) Mother Ferro's Restaurant Speciali%ing in Italian - American food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. 20 WASHERS - WASH 2Sc - DRY 10c Norge Laundromat 25 PARK PLACE (1 B.lock West of West College) ACME BARBER SHOP 509 Union Street Experienced Barbers Catering to Union College Students UNION INN 517 UNION STREET • 4 4 444 4 4 ,+ • 4 6 4 •' • a, 44- A 4 A A.+.,&, 4 A 4 4 A+ •.+. .+.,.a. 4 • .L .&. ,1, ,a, • A.+. 4 Now featuring .the WOOL HERRINGBONE SPORT COAT at in four rich fall colors. Sizes 34 to 46 Regulars, Shorts, Longs. w 328 STATE ST Doily to 5:30 · . • Tues. & Thur. 'til 9

4 Friday, September 27, 1963 ~ ;.. Friday, St Virginia Integration R.I .. P. • • Modern Poetry Series: (Continued from Page 3) i were destroyed. But they have. pressed a desire for bettermel).t b:e.~ reHovat.ed, and the land on of their race. To understand this '' lm h they ~~st has been passed J. c. Clemens Ferlinghetti 'lAm Waiting~ statement, one must first delve from g-eneratton to generat~on. By Arnold Berkowitz The Editorial Board of Con- that God is l\eally American into the Negro mind. He is . B~low the upper clas:;; he~ an cordiensis feels that a breath of and I am seriously waiting strongly conscious of his position 1 mtt·lcate and l<?o_sely-kmt U:I~1le There comes a time in the life copy was quite great. To produce· the avant-garde will add life to for Billy Graham and Elvis Pt•es- in a minority race, and as such j dass. It typifies the ~ud e~ of every English major when the a column with regularity required our ivy-covered campus. Thus, ley he feels a kinship with every I da.s.s 0 ~ the No_rth, except Its pel desire of seeing his own words that one be especially observant, beginning this week we shall pub- to exchange roles seriously other member. \It amounts,\ raptt~ m~ome IS lowelf h in print becomes so great that it and that one cater to one's whims lish prose and poetry by contem- and I am waiting said one, \to a. feeling that every-! .It ts With the rest_ 0 t e pyra-. overcomes every obstacle, primar- with great attention. The world porary writers. Whatever merits. to see God on television nne's in the same boat. Look,\ he . mHl that I a~ espectally concer:n- ilr the editor's reluctance and of personal experienc~ interested these writers may possess will .piped onto church altars continued, \I'm gonna help the I eel. . F~~ tlus segment embodies also a complete lack of suitable him, almost exclusively. This is be decided in the future with the if only they can find other guy if I can, because he's I a ::;lp;ntflcant percenta~e 0 .f t~e' topics about which to write. This is not to accuse him of solipsism. perspective of tomorrow's pro- the right channel in just as deep. If we start fight- I populace. Its. mem~ets ale t e true for the student who is truly It is rather a realization that in fessors, but in the meantime we to tune in on .. ing each other then's we'll g-et 1 laborers of whl~e socletly, mostly talented as well as for the indi- Schenectady one is rather effec- · hope to in trod. uce them n,ow I and I am. waitmg . nowhere.\ Witi1 this feeling, the: unskilled .. I~ IS t_he strong~old vidual who merely has literary tively isolated from the world. while the wnters are ahve, for the Last .Supper to be served Negro has begun his assault on I of reactlOIHStJc feeln;gs, a socie.t) pretensions. Of course there is this other while the ideas are fresh, while again the rrreatest barrier to his ad- ignorant and uncanng of socm · When sitting down to write school of thought which believes the criticism is not about yester- with a strange new appetizer \ an<';'ment. trends and .progress. such an essay, one might very in the efficacy of authoritative. day. \I am Waiting\ is taken and 1 am perpetually awaiting Inextricably woven into all this : :-tegro at Cotton well consult the classic writers accounts, probably dealing with from Lawrence Ferlingetti's A a rebirth of wonder is the system of economics in the 1 1 At the bottorH is the Negro. from one's study of literature, the trouble spots in the world. CONEY ISLAND OF THE South. We in the North must Regardless of his capacities or such as Addison and Steele, and Finally, one realizes that he MIND, published by New Direc-. recognize the difference between achievements, his economic enter- the issues of the Spectatot·. How- never really directly attacked the tions. Bool\s, It is one of tl 1 e our sy~tem and theirs. There is prises, the Negro is lumpe~ into ever I shall use as a frame of college. Instead he used a gen- best selling poetry books ,in no valtd rea::;on to assume that a single category. Entry mto a refe;ence the uncoHected writ- tle irony to prove his point, leav- America with over 75,000 copies the South is backward, but _there higher stratum is forbidden be- ings of Jon Clemens. ing the hatchet work for the edi- sold since 1958. is every reason to class 1t as cau::;e of the presence of those Saw Him Often torial writers. Which reminds 1 am waiting for my case to come vastly underdeveloped. ~ndustr.ial above him. His way is barre.d I frequently saw him at the of- me about a funny thing that hap- up dties similar to those w1th wh1ch l>y a class which cannot permit fice of the Concordiensis, where pened on the way to the book- and I am waiting we are familiar are few in num- h·is rise, for in so doing, it un- his articles were accepted by the store . . . . for a rebirth of wonder ber compared to the North. In seats itself, and becomes subor- editors without a word of criti- and I am waiting for someone the Deep South, they are virtually I dinate to the Negro. . . cism. and evidently with deep Orchestra to really discover America nonexistent. This discussion has been Sim- gratitude, since it generally • • • and wail Complex Social Structure I plified greatly! for SOJ?e too meant that the features page and I am waiting Out of this has arisen an unique lmu~h so. J3ut Its. concluswns m:e could be put to bed for the night. (Continued from Page 3) for the discovery and complex social structure obv1oui:l, Ji!conomlcally th,e NegiO It also meant that one of the Weekend at Skidmore, and Par- of a new symbolic western fran- which, when simplified, may be must not nse, because th!s would editors would not have to be both- ent's Weekend at Union, as well tier likened somewhat to a pyramid. !mean that the lowest whlte cl:;-.ss ered ;vith writing a Letter to the as concerts outside the tri-cities and I am waiting At the top sit the remnants of 1 1vould have no be.drock on which Editor. I observed this with great area. The concerts given this for the American Eagle the aristocracy which survived the I to flounder_. Socla_Ily the ~egro admiration, since my great dif- year should reflect an improved to really spread its wings I am waiting for my number to be called and I am waiting for the living end and I am waiting for dad to come home his pockets full of irradiated sHver d0llars and I am waiting for the atomic tests to end and I am waiting happily for things to get much worse before they improve and I am waiting for the Salvation Army to take over and I am waiting (Continued on Page 6) I I .. war. Their existence is repre-. must not nse, for m so domg _he ficulty is to get the article in group. (In the first place, there and straighten up and fly right sented by the hume::; which stand would bring- about the destructwn suitable form so that it can pass were auditions this year, and the and I am waiting F,..,.~·tern.; f.;eS uff the Jefferson Highway. These, of all-white rule, and thus an- the fearsome scrutiny of the edi- new members have demonstt·ated for the Age of Anxiety I &+ ., ._, plush estates an• remnallts of the n~hilate u_ fundamental,_ and tor. ability. Secondly, the group is to drop dead ·~ pt·e-war era. Many, of course, h1ghly-rhenshed way of hfe. Demand for Copy larg-er.) The new members have and I am waiting The principal consideration in filled positions vacated by those for the war to be. fought THE BEST FROM BRITAIN Our Deansgate Sport Jackets are tailored of classic imported British woolens. And styled, of course, in our famous natural shoulder model! 48.50 understanding his art was that who were graduated, and posi- which will make the world safe the newspaper was published once tions which were vacant or weak for anarchy a week, so that the demand for last year. The orchestra now and I am waiting boasts four competent oboists, for the final withering away Ti01~ C~nt~.­ J~w~lc;.-s \Your Jeweler Away From Home\ BUY WITH CONFIDENCE Midtown clarinetists, and French horn of all governments players, three qualified trumpet- and I am perpetually awaiting ers and flutists, two able tram- a rebirth of wonder bonists, and a capable bassoonist. This was attested to by the sur- prisingly high calibre of the first rehearsal. The only striking weakness was the undermanned string section. There is a need for violists, violinists and cellists, in that or- der, and any qualified string player interested in taking part would be welcomed. Other in- strumentalists who might like to audition for the group are invited to the next rehearsal at Union, ·Tuesday, at 7:30 P.M. Barber Shop I am waiting for the Second Com- ing and I am waiting for a religious revival to sweep thru the state of Ari- zona and I am waiting for the Grapes of stored and l am waiting for them to prove Jazz ... Wrath to be (Continued from Page 2) 515 UNION STREET lette with Duke Ellington at the piano (#52074). This record is a classic of its kind and we should be very thankful that the meeting of these two giants took place in a recording studio so that the minutes could be taken down on wax for posterity. (Next to Union Inn) Specializing in Restyling of Hairdos Each head is given personal care In these later days Louis has improvised comparatively little, but the qualities which establish- ed him as a major jazz virtuoso, in fact the first major jazz vir- , tuoso, are still present. And a I . <\oncert or a recording by him to- day is still a very memorable ex- SAVE ON OWN BRANDS! liquor Store 511 UNION ST. EX 3-3111 EX 3-3110 '\ perience. ffffffffTTf¥tTTY'f't'ff'f'f'f¥TtT'f¥Ti'fT'ff¥ffY'fTY't'Y\f'Y DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118- 120 JAY STREET 44L4•44614\4' 4' + 6 '+' 1 .' A.444444.L444444A.4..L.A •+•AAA W elt::oiD«; 13at:k F~iends! OUR PRICES HAVE NOT CHANGED THEY ARE STILL THE BEST YET! New Student Rates- CHINO PANTS LAUNDERED (2 OR MOREl SHIRTS 39c 20c SUITS -------98c JACKETS -----49c PANTS ------49c SWEATERS ---49c Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5294 Just Around the Corner from Mohawk Natio.nal Bank (Continued from Page 3) othe1: 12 fraterb·nit!es (f~lpha Delta , 11 Ph1 IS on pro atwn or non-aca- demic reasons) wil'l be overcrowd- ed and the entire pul'pose of the occasion lost. The houses a1·e al- lowed to have bands and serve ,,,· alcoholic beverages on Fall Week- end, but they are not allowed to have dates. Although the houses' position for rushing is potentital- ,. : ly precarious, no bad effects ' should be felt if the freshmen completely understand the situ- ation. It is hoped that the fresh- men in whom the houses may be \' interested will be more objective than to base their judgments on the social events of !<'all Week- end, as the formal rushing pe;riod <ll ' does not begin until the se~ond semester. ' Fraternity Reaches a Low· Crandall cited the fact that the \ fraternity index last year reached a 12-year low, thus indicating that the academic decline is not restricted to four houses. Inter- ,., pretations of the cause for t~is · decline vary, althougltsome maJor causes were suggesteq by the tour ~ presidents. Among them are an ~ l evasive attitude toward scholar- ~. ship, disturbing influences within ' each house, professors who fail to arouse interest in their courses, pledges who failed to adjust to • fraternity life, and various indi- vidual reasons. Each of the four houses has enforced study pro- grams and expects to be taken off . 1 probation at the end of the sem- ester. Under Attack In a recent speech before the , IFC, Mike Miller, President, stat- ed that: \At a time when the fraternity system is under constant attack . by those who state that the fra- • ternities are anti-intellectual or anti-academic (the two being dif- ferent), it is deplorable to see the numbel' of houses at Union ob~ <J taining sub-marginal academic in- dices. I think it is time that the lnte1fraternity Council act in a manner in accord with th~. on- . slaught from outside pressurlr_-and take legislative action ·~i;tself against houses for academic £lril- Ul\e.\ \The fraternity sys~em should be re-evaluated as an ,in- ! tegral part of the intellectual and academic community and efforts should be made to allay those criticisms now being levelled at the fl'aternity system by edu- cators.\ Wally' ( • , Home Made Pies Good Coffee • 325 Erie Blvd. Open Daily 5 A.M. 7 P.M. G Brendan backfield St. Lawn of the W year's 3 with the more fla! (Cont of their : Brown. halfback~ Larrie 1i theGarnE Last ~ ener saw Canton. fensive '\\' team sco period, v a prolifi handed gridders I One o: sop homo team cm of senior to the ri will be · was bad contest ' strong, will add middle a he is pu The l has bee1 years b; players good cor DutchmE day's S• leyan oJ juries w Because enced d line, inj jul'ies \\ Union's v Anoth will und in the I •.. the wea1 The fine Hitchcoc found it: ing effo fine hal Hurlbut, Art Ma importm The o: to be se1 occasion Terry D '•, to ment more A sophomc Fred B good th ·•· · this sea: On th showing Cardin a: ( up why ~ . have be , hard thi has spe J: of time ~~ •I \sure\ were la1 As oJ ence w gest I now SE results the yot: ing we but nc ~ ONE ( Cl All 'J PIC 527 \

!7, 1963 . ..., f·' Friday, September 27, 1963 ,. ~- ing~ ~rican ing vis Pres- LSly Je served etizer 11aiting Garnet Over I'• ' ..•. .1mber to ars end ly worse to take ~ 6) ' ~s ~e 3) Jha Delta .,., . , \' ·~ non-aca- 'll rercrowd- se of the !S a1•e al- '1 . nd serve ,,, · :dl Week- Hawed to 1e houses' otentital- ., 1 i effects freshmen the situ- :he fresh- s may be~. objective ments on 11l Week- ng p~riod.., 1e se~ond t Low ; that the ., r reached indicating ne is not ~s. Inter- \' for this 1 me major r the four t narean l , scholar- ~~~ es within ·ho fail to · courses, adjust to • ious indi- . the four :udy pro- taken off the sem- ·I' efore the , lent, stat- fraternity n:t attack . t the fra- ~ ectual or being dif- to see the Jnion ob· •J tdemic in- ~ that the act in a 1 thl}. on- . !Ssurlf:and m ':i;t$elf .ernie flril- r system as an ·in- 1 ectual and nd efforts lay those evelled at . by edu- , ., s r t ) lvd. 7 P.M. I Brendan Hutchinson (43) and Terry Dutton will p1•obably be in the backfield for the Garnet when they open their 1963 campaig'lt against St. Lawrence University tomorrow. Letterman and former Dutchman of the Week Hutchinson, and sophomore standout Dutton, from last year's 3 and 1 frosh team, complement each other in the backfield with the former a very consistent ground gainer, and the latter, a more flashy, twisting and turning broken field runner. (Continued from Page 1) i team is rightfully eager to start of their all-ECAC halfback Wally 1 the 1963 seas~n off on the Brown. Two fine young running. foot by defeatmg St. Lawrence. half~ack_s assisted by a s~r~ng i Other Results Larl'le lme have hopes of g1vmg; the Garnet griddet·s double trouble. ; Scores from last Saturday's in- Last year's Union College op- tercollegiate football action which ener saw the Dutchmen travel to are of future importance to the Canton. It was an exciting de- U. C. fan: fensive game in which neither Upsala 34, Susquehanna 12. '\\ teal? scored until late in the third Alfred 12, Cortland State 0. per10d, when St. Lawrence began . , a prolific flurry of scoring and Demson 7, Rochestet 6. handed Union College's tired gridders a lopsided 34-0 defeat . Fantauzzi Returns One of the bright spots in the sophomore dominated Garnet team can be found in the retm'I) of senior letterman Pat Fantauzzi to the right guard slot. Saturday will be Pat's first game since he was badly injured in. last ye!'n·'s contest with the Larnes. He 1s a strong, aggressive blocker who will add punch on bucks up the middle and around the ends when he is pulling. The Union-St. Lawrence game has been marked in the last few years by serious injuries to key players in the Garnet line-up. The good conditioning exhibited by the Dutchmen gridders in last Satm- day's scrimmage against W~s­ leyan offers great hope that m- juries will be limited this seasor;. Because of the lack of expen- enced depth, particularly in ~he line, injuries or the l!lck of m- jul'ies will play a maJor role in Union's football season. Weather Important Another maior factor which will undoubtedly play a large role in the Dutchmen's season will be , . the weather~the passing weathet·. The fine arm of sophomore Tom Hitchcock wh i c h consistently found its mark in last week's los- ing effort to Wesleyan, and the fine hands of sophomore Marc Hurlbut and those of letterman Art M~rshall will be of prime importance to the U. C. fan; The only other happy surprises to be seen last Saturday were the occasional exciting runs by backs Terry Dutton and Ed Kessler, not to mention the fine toe of sopho- more Al Hrdlicka. In the line sophomores Bob DeMichele and Fred Hay offered promises of good things to come de;fensively ''· · this season for the Dutchmen. On the whole, however, Union's showing against the Little Three Cardinals last Saturday pointed ( up why Coach Maras and his staff I have been working the team so 1 hard this week. The Garnet team has spent a tremendous amount .u of time on pass defense and Frosh Rooters Ready To Start \If we can overcome our in- dividualism and wo1•k as a team, we may be fairly good.\ This is how coach Evans de- scribes the freshman soccer team's potential, as they work to- wards their first game which will be played tomonow at Rochester. Outstanding among the 31 freshmen out for the squad, are halfback Greg Olson and goalies Paul Forlenzo and Toby Olsen. Although the Fresh lack a \strong foot,\ they may hustle their way to success in their eight game season in which R.P.I. fig- ures to be their roughest oppon- ent. The tentative starting lineup for tomorrow along the line is (left to right); Dave Kaufman, Steve Nagy, Bob Maynard,. Joel Lowenstein; halfbacks: Greg Ol- son, Pete Liffiton, and Dave Duch- scherer; fullbacks: Marc Rudich and Mike Modern Toby Olsen and Paul Forlenzo will split the goal- tending duties. Their schedule: Sept. 28 Rochester Oct. 5 (h) Hamilton 8 (h) Darrow 12 (h) Bard 15 Albany State 18 Northwood 22 R. P. I. 26 (h) Hobart Unitarian Church 1221 Wendell Avenue Minister: William Gold S Revivals, or ermon: Religious Education? \Almost any church and near- ly every church is a foundation designed to maintain a par- ticular body of legends.\ . -Philip Wylie Sunday Service 1 0:30 a.m. We invite you to visit our church. ' 1 \~. \sure\ tackling, both of which were lacking last week. I As of iast Saturday, inexperi- F;;~~~~~;;~~~;;;~~ ence was Union College's big- •I gest problem. Everyone has now seen \game\ action, the results will be of great help to the young gridders. With pass- ing weather fo1•cast, the young but not:so-inexperienced Union ONE DAY SERVICE CAMPUS .CLEANERS All Work Done on Premises PICKUP AND DELIVERY 527 Nott St., Schenedady, N. Y. Opp. Union College Phone EX 3-5472 FIELD'S LIQUOR STOR.E 38 Erie Blvd. (Across from Train .Station) Save On Our Own Olde Village Private Label Spirits We Deliver free FR 4-6846 5 St. Lawrence Tomorrow Varsity Boots Touch Football Action; '67 Gridders In First Test Season Officially Opened · ~~=~::::!:.~'::::~~~~~ At Roches.ter 1 By AI Stein two factoys lac~ing ~n this ;vear's 1 • • , , • 1 ~quad. yY'1th a hght, mexpenenced The Union College soccer team Fourteen teams, playmg exc1t- half. Vm Ru~so o.f I h1 Gam gave, front !me and . a backfield that under its new head mentor Ed ing football, initiated the new, the young Ch1 P.~I team a :,;ample! averages only aboyt 5'8\ and 170 Beaudry travel to the University 1963 Intramural Touch Football of some fierce !me play. In one pounds, \\'!' HI'P m for a rough of Rochester tomorrow to open League. The seven inaugmal• 1 of the el?sest games of the day a; Reason.\ . . their 1963 campaign. The squad, games seem to herald anot~er 1 Ka~pa ~IJ?Dla po~\·erhouse extl!nd-, ~hest> an• the sentiments w1th which has gone through many outstanding season replete w1th I ed. Itself. m beatmg a determmed · which freshf!1en football Coach rig·orous practice sessions, often all the action and thrills of touch! Ps1 Upstlon te.am, 12-6. Freel: It Bruce Alhso~ summed up the in bare feet to improve their football. 1 Maute, John W1Uco;:c, and rJ:enry! prosp~cts for th1s season's !res~- kicking technique is in top con- . , . . . i Morgan led the Kappa Sigma 1 men football squad. Now m hJs clition and will be entering the The fu·st tw.o days compehtl~d 1 team which had to score in the I St;Venth year as frosh mentor, game with high hopes of pro- was Sh.aracterized by upsets a final two minutes to win. The Coach Allison. particularly noted longing their winning ways over· surpr1smgly strong performances fine Psi C'psilon team, with Kevin the lack of depth on the team, the Yellowjackets The Dutch- by several Ul;lher~dp~· ~.ams. O'Conner scoring their only touch- attributing this to a smaH turn- men handed the u· of R squad a Both Delta Phi. ~n 1 . lgmd· down might just cause a few of out. As he put it, \On the first ·ft 1 0 1 f t 1' t · Delta, last seasons .champiOn an the Southem Division powers a <Ia~· or practice I was met by 34 m · y - c e ea as season. . ect'vely went down . J • . . runnei·-up.Iesp . I : · httle concern. In the last game smiling face:>, but only 20 of these Although graduation placed .a to defeat m the powe~f?l. and up- of the day the two other South-~ wtOre real football players.\ heavy. toll on the .team, es~ec1- set prone Southern diVISion. The em Division powers battled in a , Spil'it High ally m the defens1ve backfield, Northern !~ague seems to ha~e hai•d fought game whose outcome With only ten remaining prac- seve.ral sophomores, a numbe_r of come up w1th a power- )'louse. m was in doubt untH the last sec- tice sessions before the first ~ore1gn stu~e;nts and muc~ SWltch- Chi Psi, a!! efficient machme whlch ond. Sigma Chi won by a 14-12 scheduled contest, Coach Allison I~g of positions have filled. the ~von ~he mtram1;1rals last season score, the game ending with Phi views the Dutchmen's chances for gap~ left by sta11douts Abe Ter- m spite of losmg the foo~ba}l Sigma Delta on the Sig Chi 51 success in terms of team spirit pemng, Pete Neddermeyer, John title. In the Eas;tern League 1 .t lS yard line. Sigma Chi trailed at and enthusiasm . Nf'llson, Herm Helber, and Pete hard t~ make any prognostlca- the half in this exciting game. \I am particularly impressed Bishko. tions with one game completed. Displaying the hn·gest line of the I with the spirit and the enthusi- Starting for coach Beaudry to- day Sigma Chi scored the decid- 1 asm that they display in drill morrow will probably be Jack Defenses Strong ing points on a safety by Jeff 1 and general practice. This is es- Rowe!l, left wing; Ron Prins, On Tuesday, September 24, in a Schultheis. Jack Shenendorp at pecially true of the backfield.\ center forward; Rolf Kasper, game displaying powerful defens- end caught two touchdown passes: Candidates for the backfield in- right inside; co-captain Larry es Sigma Phi beat Theta Delta while Ed Hannan ran the team at 1 l elude Bob McAdams, probable McCray, left insicle; John Fuller, Chi, 6-2. With only one ga':lle quarte1·back. The smaller, but starting quarterback, half baclm right wing; Darry Caye, left half- complete lines and s:condanes equally potent Phi Sig team, dis- 1 Gary Raden, Rich Clemens, John back; co-captain Bill Bemhard, exhibited sound defensive work, played what might be considered: Felton, Jerry Niles, Dan Sacco, right halfback; Dave Holdridge, which seems to be indicative of the two mo-st dangerous ends in I and another quarterback prospect, · center half; Gary Brown, left play this season. Bill Adams and intramurals. Basketball star Toby Bill Toth. Already lost to Coach fullback; Ben Blair, right full- Gary Stang of T?eta De!t and Lustig and track star AI Panoff I Allison because of injuries will back; and Jan Barkman, goalie. Mike Moffer of S1gma Ph1 were give Phi Sig a long pass threat. be the services of halfbark Ray Prins and Barkman are both for- defensive bulwarks. Clayton Tern- v\·henever they take the offense. ! Pike. eign students attending Union ple of Sigma Phi scored the 1 Line coach Carl Taubner has tthrough the Higher Education game's only touchdown on a Ion~ Participation Great the task of formulating a forward for Lasting Peace (H.E.L.P.) pro- pass. That same day Beta Theta P1 l line, which at the start of prac- gram. beat Phi Epsilon Pi by one touch- The first two days of intra- 1 tice had only three guards to fill Excellent conditioning, leader- down, 18-12. The game was murals had an over-abund·ance of: four positions. Line candidates ship, and attitude, not to mention broken open in the second half thrills_ But perhaps the most en-' include Bernie Mulligan, John De- •their improved scoring punch, as Beta scored twice. Outstand- couraging aspect of the day was; Nitto, and converted center Bob point to fine hopes for the team ing at quarterback for Phi Ep the enthusiastic participation by: Blaus at guard; Doug Horan at to improve upon its three and six was Bob Yanover while Roland a sizeable number of the Union center, and Bob Marshal, a good record of last year. The squad's Ciaranello led the Beta attack. College student body. There were looking prospect, at tackle. home debut will be on Wednes- In the day's final game Delta seven games played, with only, The freshmen inaugurate what day, October 2 against always Upsilon overwhelmed Phi Delta one forfeit (this due to illness). p1omises ot be a very rough powerful Hartwick. Theta with a powerful second half A conservative estimate would sehedule on October 11, at Wes- fi 1 place the number of players for I leyan, whom they have yet to ATTENTION passing game. The na score these inaugurals at about 150: beat in game c.ompetition. The was 18-4 as Randy Kuhl at quar- · '11 terback and Skip Eames and Tom players. There are less than 900, second contest of the season >VI 1 players. There are less than 800 be on October 18 against Hamil- The future of the Block U Society is at stake! One last at- tempt to reorganize the group will be made. Thursday, October 3, at 11:30 A.M. in Electrical En- gineering 22. Every letter win- ner should make an effort to at- tend, especially since this should be free time. The election of of- ficers will be undertaken at this time, as well as the statement of objectives and plans for the future. Be there! DeWitt at the ends led the ate sider the intramural program a 1 • ton, a team scheduled with us for surge. The game between Phi . d - 11 b f 11 d Sigwa Kappa and Kappa Alpha success m terms of student par- . the first time, an WI e o · owe was won on a forfeit by Kappa ticipation. Further judgment on by a contest on Octo bel' 25 against its other aspects will be reserved· Rocheste1·, a game on November Alpha. for a later issue. ' 2 against R.P.I. SOCCER SCHEDULE On Thursday there were four g·ames played. Upsets of pe~Ten­ ial powers were the order of the day. Delta Phi, the defending champions, were shutout by Al- pha Delta Phi, J.-2-0. It was a· sloppy game in which the Alpha Delt detense was instrumental in scoring both touchdowns on fum. ble recoveries. Miles Jennings, John Michalak and Phil French were outstanding defenders for the victors while John Burnham shone for the vanquishe<l. In the day's most impressive victory Chi Psi handed Phi Gamma Delta a 26-6 pasting. Phi Gam had no answers to intramural star Rick Crookes who passed for four touchdowns, and the outstanding play of Rich Erdoes and George Master. Although the score was only 6-0 at the half, Chi Psi quick- ly reasserted itself in the second September 28 Rochester *October 2 Hartwick *October 5 Hamilton '\October 9 Middlebury ''October 16 Colgate October 18 Oneonta October 23 R.P.I. October 26 Hobart October 30 Trinity *home g·ame +,. f t T t t t f f f f t t t t t t f' t t f' t t t t t f t t t t t T t f Y t T t f' t T t t t' DIAMANTE'S Enjoy our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNEll GATE ON NOIT ST. OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M.- SUNDAYS S P.M.-3 A.M • ........ , ................................................. . 8 8 VV.Lant;s 1723 Van Vranken Avenue STUDENT RATES 35c per game up till 6 P.M. on Weekdays 45c per game after 6 P.M. and Weekends BAR ON PREMISES 8 FREE SHOES (Save 25c) to College Students 8 ~EWEST LU~CH 715 Albar~y Street • Specializing: - HOl DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES -TAKE-OUT ORDERS - Union Students Favorite Spc>t'- (Serving Schenectady Since 1921 ) Open 7 Days Per Week 6 A.M. - 4:00 A.M. * II !II DILBORO .IB!ID IOUID~~P CJOiftST * RULES AND PRIZES TO BE A WARDED Wlll BE ANNOUNCED SHORTLY * SAVE YOUR PACKS MARLBORO* PARLIAMENT* ALPINE PHILIP MORRIS* PAXTON

6 Friday, September 27, 1963 l Summer School Program Pleases Administration 1~?.!~;~~~ p:.: ,; ,Fer ling he t t i ... I are sold, for the most part, at , (Continued from Page 4) to just stop rolling along the publishers' list prices. The: past the country club to get some intimations '·I of immorality I c~ c The Summer School P1·ogram -t~------------- 0~ 1963 was t~e largest in the sion is anticipated by Mr. Haines. h1story. of Umon College. In \In a year or s0,\ he said, \we comparison to the 1962 season, could have as many as 750 stud- the enrollment and the. number ents in the Summer p 1 ·ogram.\ of coHrses offered mcreased profits go into the scholarship 1 for the human cro;vd and I am waiting fund for Union students. Theft to wa~1der. off a cl~ff somewhere for the deepest south and breakage deplete the profits clutchmg 1ts . ~tomlC umbrella to just stop Reconstructing itself by recollecting my early childhood c and I am waiting considerably. l7nd I am wmtmg in its own image for the green mornings to come again youth's dumb green fields come No students are employed in l.or Ike to ac~. and I am waiting the bookstore at the present time I ~nd I am wmtmg for a sweet desegregated chariot and i.t is d01.~btful that any will I ~or ~he ~eek to be blessed to swing low be employed m the future. As a a~d mher1t the earth and cal'rY me back to Ole Virginie result of past experiences of sev- j w1thout taxes. . and I am waiting nearly 100%. The program has back again : 1 .. and I am waiting for some strains of unpremedi- tated art ~· Vol. ~ been in operation since 1946. Lette1 1 • There were 431 students par- • • • eral organizations employi.ng I ~nd I am wa1tmg . for Ole Virginie to discover btudents, the bc:siness dep~rtment for .fore.sts and _a~unals . . just why Darkies ::.re born to shake my typewriter If , and I am waiting to write . ticipating in the four programs offered on campus. Forty-three members of the Union faculty taught a total of forty-three courses ranging through all areas of the college curriculum. (Continued from Page 2) ently available (including vaca- tions) to work in the bookstore, I should be interested in that list too. But before he turns over any substa11 tial part of the operation of the bookstore to the students, I su•TD'est that he inquire about the history of table-service in Hale House and student-manage- 11'( nt of the Rathskeller. This fall, the bookstore has op- erated under the ob\'ious difficul- ties of a split-operation. We all hope that so:me of the awkward- ness will be 1·elieved when things are consolidated in the new sto1·e. }lost of us on the Bookstore Com- 'llittl'e (though we did nnt share in tlw planning of the new store) :u·e, l think, quite pleased with the possibilities offered by the new quat·tel'S. And although we \\'ouldn't expect to hear glowing- prai~es from the Concordy, we hope that most of the student~ will be pleased too. The major program offered was the Union College Summer School. This furnished courses for col- lege students who desired to earn f.'xtra credits dul'ing the summer months. A great majority of the students were from the local area, and attend other institutions dur- ing the year. There were, in addition, seven hig'h school stud- ents who did work on the college le\·el to achieve adYanced stand- ing upon entering college. Ac- t•ording to Mr. John R. Haines, Dit·ector of Special Programs, the College is \extremelv proud'' of the pel'f'onnance of these high school students. Mr. H~ines stated, in general, that more ex- tensive participation will be en- couraged in the summer session for secondm·y school pupils. In these days of cut-rates and <li:;count-houses, anything close to Summer School for Teacl1ers a list price sometimes seems ex- Three other programs were orbitant, I suppose. But I thi!lk also conducted. The };;ational \\'e have heard enough about \pH- Science Foundation sponsored :wy\ - the ultimate Ul'e of the graduate courses for 102 high hnnk:-tore profits may not appeal school teachers. The Economie to every student, but it is some· Fellows, supported by the G.E. thing else altogether to suggest Foundation, offered courses in that Mrs. Hill is running her own teaching for fifty graduate high ~tore and is getting; riC\h frnm school teachers. The Research ~ouging the students. Fellowship, also supported by Rv a 11 meam, let the students General Electric, consisted of six be heard in surh matters; hut let weeks of scientific research in them behave responsibly with the chemistry and physics at both the factl', not irresponsibly with un- College and the G.E. Laboratory. founded suspicions. In any rase, There were no courses or ct·edit I woulc~ sugg~st that M.r. Hoff- given to the twenty high school n:an t.hmk twiCe before he buys students im'olved. f lm: 0\\ 11 bookstore. . . h 1 Alan Nelson, By P!lssmg· one e1g t wee' 1 Department of English. course m the regular Summer School, a student can receive I credit for a year's ·work. A six week course C\ounts us one sem- ' ester of nedit. The actmissions requirPments were desc'l'ihecl as \flexible\ by Mr. llaines. A reg- ular s~uclent of l:nion could, _if 1 · he destred, attempt to ach·anre m his studies dming his vacation. Geographic Distribution!· The Summer School is now taking students from other than local areas into its program. In 1 1963, from Junl.' 24th to August 2nd or 16th, eig·hteen students lived in the college dormitories. This was the first year in which these facilities were made avail- able. The total enrollment in all the special programs, including Grad- uate Studies, and the Evening I Division is now 1,300. This is CORDOROY CONTINENTAL PANTS - Tapered legs - Waists 29 - 32 3.98 & 4.98 • 334 State St. feels that outsH!e ~1<:lp w1H P.ro-. 1 to 1ecl.aun th~ ~al.th as thens, and I am waiting vide the most efficient service. Hncl I am wa1tmg . for God to lookout !\I any students }}ave scheduling, for a way to be d~V)Se~ from Lookout Mountain problems, extracurricular activi- to. destro:~; !111 natiOnalisms and see the Ode to the Confeder- ties, and last-minute committ- Without lnllm~. anybody ate Dead ments which would make opera- find .I am wmtmg . as a real farce tion with a student staff diffi- for l;nnets and planets to faH lrke and I am awaiting retribution cult. ram . . for what America did The g-oal of the business de- and I am wmtmg for lovers and to Tom Sawyer pa.rtment is to have the bookstore weepers and I am perpetually awaiting a complecely adjusted to its new to lie down together again rebirth of wonder lorat'on in order to receive visit- in a new rebirth of wonder ing alumni and parents on home- I am waiting for the Great Divide I am waiting for Tom Swift to the great indelible poem and I am waiting for the last long careless rap- ture and I am pertually waiting for the fleeing lovers on the Gre- cian Urn to catch each of the up at last and embrace and I am waiting perpetually and forever a renaissance of wonder ·:oming weekend. to be c1·ossed and I am anxiously waiting grow up ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ and I am waiting s. c. • • • for the secret of etemal life to ht> discovered bv an obscme general practitioner a;1d save me forever from certain (C'ontinuect from Page 1) death tions, ealendar and blotter, con- and I waiting stitut ilmal and activities survey, for life to begin :md n:et·itol'ious service awards, ~nd I am waiting Fred Maute is the head of the for the storms of life Facultv-Alumni-Trustee Commit- to be over tPe arid i::; planning closer work ·md I am waiting with the alumni in the future. 1 to set sail for happiness Seifert Hopeful 'UHl I am waiting Also discussed at the meeting for a reconstructed Mayflower were the plans for Fall Prom to reach America Weekend. Sophomore class pres- with its picture story and its ident Jack Seifert is hopeful that r'ghts en!el'tainment will be obtained for ~old in advance to the natives Saturday evening at the Fall 'llld I am waiting Weekend. He expressed the de- for the lost music to sound again sire that the college no longer to the Lost Continent use the sen·ices of the present i·n a new rebirth of wonder a.rent for weekend entertainment. S;ifert would like a hootenanny rc>ulaee the usual Friday evening p1:,,m dance. The office of secretary for the Council, left vacant by the resig- nation of Willard Grant, will be filled at the next Council meet- ing. Fred Maute and John Maz- zola were nominated for the of- fice this past meeting. KNAPP SERVICE LTD. Erie Blvd. & Liberty St. Phone Dl 6-5900 COMPLETE VOLKSWAGON & IMPORTS PARTS AND SERVICE • Moving Oct. 1st, To 1000 State St. I am waiting for the day that maketh all things clear and I am waiting for Ole Man River DO WHAT CAESAR AND NAPOLEON l'or the American Boy to take off Beauty's clothes and get on top of her vnd I am waiting for Alice in Wonderland tc. retransmit to me her total dream of innocence and I am waiting for Childe Roland to come to the final darkest tower and I am waiting 1 l'or Aphrodite j 'o grow live arms nt a final disarmament conference I in a new rebirth of wonder I am waiting Zipp's Barber Shop Complete Barber Service 1569 Van Vranken Ave. 3 Doors Up From Branch Post OHice RECORDS OF COMEDY -JAZZ- CLASSICAL - FOLK AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS TAPES AND RECORDS FOR RENTAL ON CLUB PLAN APEX MUSIC KORNER State St. at Corner of Broadway Phone FR 7-111 2 BUY YOUR SCHENECTADY 'i :\ almost equal to the full time stu- 1 We gladly Cash your checks dent body. Still further ex pan- ! ~~;:::;::~:::;::;:~:;::~~:;:::~::;!~~~:;:::::;:::;::::~~:::;~~:;::;::::::;:~ COULDN'T DO ... Call home! Half the fun of doing something great is telling people about it. Moms and dads. get a kick out of hearing what's up ... even when it's nothing im- portant. You'll like hearing their voices, too. Why not call tonight? Long Distance rates are lower, re- member, every evening afte'r6: 00 and all day Sunday. Extra low for many calls within New York State after 9:00 p.m. TROY SUPERIOR BARBERSHOP RITZ REST AU RANT 601 NOTT St. (Across from Nott Gate) Specializing in Flat Top & Ivy League Haircuts 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featurinq: - HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week ® New York Telephone ~~~~~~~~~~~~.~ ... ~ .........................•.. ideas: \The future depends on people with ideas.\ This statement helps explain the work at IBM today: seeking and finding new ways to handle information, planning and building new machinery for the task, exploring wholly new methods .... I The demand for ideas has never been greater. I Check with your college placement officer and make an appointment with the IBM repre- sentative who will be on campus interviewing. I Ask for our brochures. I IBM is an Equal Opportunity Employer. I If you cannot attend the interview, write: I Manager of College Relations, I IBM Corp., 590 Madison Ave., New York 22, N.Y. I MOVE AHEAD: SEE IBM® NOV.l5, 1963 FAMILY BILLIARDS SPECIAL RA T:ES For Union Students (with ID Cards) 1 - 5 P.M. 7 Days Per Week 1615 UNION STREET <Over KA Y;S) DRUGS OPEN 11 :30 A. M. - 12:00 MIDNIGHT Phone 346-9632 .I ONLY Save over $150.00 Save at movie theatres, restaurants, shops, and dozens of other leading e5tablishments. Listed be- low are the places in the Tri-City m·ec that )'OU may save at with the Tri-City Sqmpler. Schnec:tDd'f Arecr Super-50 Drive In Morlou Gleaners Roth's Restovrcnt Olyiiipi~ Sporting Goods. Eddy \D\ lo.jen~s Shop lli·Mot Army Navy Mohawl: Drive In River View tlrive l11 Ramark Studios· Butler's Pharmacy Arthur's Beauty SaiM Family Billiards Dunbar Shop Plaza Theatre Proctors Theatre SI'Gte Theatre Troy Ar!ltl Daffner's Drug Store Cammodore Cleaners Vo11 Arnam Studio Thornies Diner Ben Coplon's Men's Weer Tiger's Sparti119 Goods, .Inc. House of Wonq Proctors Theatre Cohoes Theatre Rodino's · Inc. Hendrick Hudson Hotel Clossique Hdir Stylist Bowen Flower'• Galore ·Anne's Dress & U nifbf'm ~hop Americat~ Theatre Cue Tyme Billiards Colonool Mansions Reslawraat Albany Arecr Turnpike Driye !11 P.alo ce Theatre The .Country Shop Pfeiffer's Auto Sup,.ly Choppa. It Son Men's Weo.r The · Schine Tea Eyd: !oilartill Heni11 Sportswear Arthur Murrav Dot~c. Studio Cue \N\ Cu.ion Harold Finkle Jewelers Rarnark Studio$ T ri·City laMs Auto Vision ·Drive In S<!rQtoga Drive In · BUY YOUR TRI-CITY SAMPLER TODAY-I ON SALE AT YOUR COLLEGE BOOKSTORE OR USE HANDY COUPON BELOW. Send me 0 copies of Tri.City Sampler. 345 Broadway, Albany, New . York. I'm enclosing Check 0 Money order 0 for $2.99 each, NAME ............................................................................. ~ ....... u ... - .................. . ADD !tESS ............................................................................ _.~ ........................... _. ern' .............................................................................. STATE ........................... . ~ .. Pr• ment of proposE suggest son's p: for all: •• The co ·• sist oft' fourteen term\ c weeks. l 1.~ member load dur: (instead in the I t r. \tween- t I independ 1 or as a 1 1 ti{)n, or also use tt work of ! ing am 1 courses, Win Stude1 the \tw pay extl .J school, a x f would r• 1 same ba .. Under t€rm we time for ter (a ' week sel fore Ch period ' • • and wot weeks, c second second : • · from th until a1: week sp • Pr Dr. C advanta far outv so-calle< 111 I. · er Chris while t' \educati The sug t. serve a 1 • t' transitic I endar t1 . of the I develop • . has unc duction ·1 lengthe1 · with re ·• 1-t to the t t dar. ' An ir J possible • dents s o, -. lC :~ ,, Co1 lRe' al> Colon ' AssistaJ . NewEr I ion's I l'ir Colonel • { Union · ' c.orps. Colon by Uni< son. I observe being r The • at Uni· at a l House · The st2 Colonel Color the Ail the COJ lied Fo 1959 h Air 'i'r~ eral A ington. Thee able in he is a flew o sions il II. Reli The a~moun new p1 ties co· ligious an eve be isst ternitie prograJ

