••• Page 4) which for admis- nterest and to music for s, the double en- provided INTER.NATION:AL SCHOLARS Page 3 A Founded at Union College 1n 1877 MODERN SEQUEL Page 2 · calling --;:;:--.;~=;::--;;~--------------------;:::::;:::;:=:-::-::---:=:::::--::-~=-:------------------------------------_..;.----- This · Vol. 92- No. 17 SCHENECTADY,. N. Y., FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 1\L3 of \:1\0 PRICI; 1 5 CEN'FS which meet Opportuni- players brass and renewed ef- artment has The demonstrat- addition the brass of per- that in- will spring; and ensembles the Un. situation instru- with reestablish. · It is has indicat~ nuations of to the musi- by sup. the fra- luncheon and dinner on and Friday semester. T'fYfT¥¥ Folk Triol Highlights Weekend By Jack Seifert . ; The Chad MitcheU Trio, · · f~atured group of this year':? Winter Weekend, will per- form next Saturday, March. 9, at 3 P.M. in Memorial Chapel. · \'Ticket to Tabiti\ is the theme of the Weekend, which is being Bponsored by the Freshman Class. The Weekend will :begin Friday, March 8th, at 9 P.:t\1. with a dance in Alup1ni Gym. Featured wiU be the \Naturals a five-mll.n twist band that has appeared at Pl'ince- ton, Columbia, Rutgers, the Uni- versity of Pennsylvania,. and Cor- nell. The \Naturals\ have also played at the \Wagon Wheel\ and the \Peppennint L()un~e\ in New York. The dance, wh1ch will be decorated Tahitian style~ will be informal and students are invited to come in Polynesiatl outfits. As an additional attr~ctiont everyone attending the dance W1ll 1·eceive l\. free Tahitian lei at the door. ~ The following mornin~ the fra- ternities will compete. in a snow sculpture contest, with a troph)' being awarded for the snow statue showing the most originality and care. The winner wiU be an- nounced at the concert. Fraternity cocktail parties are expected to follow the afternoon concert, with house parties climaxing· the eve- ning. · The make-up of the Chad Mitchell Trio is unusual in that it consists of 4 performers: Chad Mitchell, Joe Frazier, Mike Kobulk and an instrumentalist, playing either the guitar or the banjo. In 1959, a Roman Catholic Priest, Rev. Reinard W. Beaver; heard the boys sing ~t Gonzaga · C\niversity in Spokane, W;!.shing- ton. Sensing their great potential, he drove the group Ea!lt, stopping .in various cities along the way and .obtaining one nigh,t engage- ments for them in local night, clubs. Arr~ving in New York City, · they managed to obtain a job at the Greenwich Village Barn where they were an immediate success. It was not long before they were.. r.:igned for the Blue Angel where. they soon cut their fi,rst album for Colpix Records, \•fhe Chad Mitchell Trio Arrives.'' Since The Chad Mitchell Trio Applicants for Class of !96 7 Increase By Over 150 ' then, they have changed record~ ing companies and have record- ed three more all;lums: \Mighty Day on Campus,\ \Chad Mit- chell Trio at the Bitter End,\ and \Chad Mitchell Trio in Ac- tion.\ Th~y also have two hit singles, \Liz:iiie Borden,\ their . first, and \John Birch Society.''. \Lizzie Borden\ and \John Birch Society'; were banned from the air by many radio stations across the cotifltl~y. A few of their other numbers are . \Super Skier,\ \Rallad of Sigmund Freud,\ \James James- Morrisson Mor- J·ison,\ \The Great Historical Bum;J> and \liang on the Bell, l\;elJie!\ Among theii'. T.V. credits are the P.llt Boone Show, Arthur f;odfl'ey Show, Bob Newhart ~how, and the Bell Telephone Hemenway To Address · .. ;~ · Hour.\ They have also app~ared h two Carnegie Hall concerts, one 1··ith Harry Belafonte. (Continued on Page 6) Phi Ep Walks Over Pledge Out Rights Lecture Features of IFC Debate

. I 2 Publlshe.! I\·rluays du••lng the school year by the Student Bolly of t:nion College, Schenectady, N. Y. !\a· tiona! Advertising Representative. Na tiona<! Ad\•ertlsing Service, Inc .. College Publishers Hepresentati•·e 4~0 Mai!lsol) Ave .. N. Y C. l·~·litor·ial Ofrke. Old <1yrn. t•nton College, Publication Office, Sehe· nectady Printing Company, 50 2 B roadwtfy. },juten~-d in the St:he- nel·laJY Post Off.ktt tt.s Secunt.l Class :..IaU Ma·tter. ~uh~cription 15C' a l'OPY: $3 a y£1:al' ·dellverPd anywhe1'eo In the t'nited StatE's. ALFRED SO~IMER '6:1 . . .. L>l 6-9959 . I•;,Jitor-in Chief ........ Business l\lanager .................... Sports -Editor ......... Feature ·Editor Mivlsor S1'EPHEN RAYMOND '63 ............. .:::' 3-933~ \DAVE THU-RSTON 'll\3 .................... D:l 6-nz~ DAVID BEREKSON '64 ................ . WILLIAM T. WI-NNE 'H ................. . A Journey To Houyhnhnntland To the Editor: I've found to my horror t!tat the accuWI·l of the Huuy- hnhnm's cuuncil concerning the C7:'1!rlllt(ll fate of the Yahoos !ws been gross/)' mutilated, and 1 ulfer below the actual pro· ccedings as recorded by me, [.1'11lUel Gulliuer, Captain cltld Surgeon of the good ship ADI'ESTURER. At the annual Houyhnhnm council held, by my reckon- ing on the 26th of February, it was decided that before eliminating the Yahoo race an enquiry be made into the means by which the Yahoo would restrain themselves from their detestable habits, given no other alternative but ex- termination. For this reason 17 of the species were gath- ered in. a stockade-like structure, four cubits high, before the Houyhnhnm. Alas, it was my fate, due to that close resemblance I bear these odious creatures, to lead them in debate. I must admit I took myself, as well as my vile com- patriots for dead, for none have ever witnessed the least bit of reason in these creatures, although they've long been threatened with extinction. Keeping them at a distance (for as the reader knows I found their odor so repulsive that I needs take refuge in filling my nostrils with tobacco when venturing near them) I impored them to give evidence of civilized behaviour, by demonstrating reason and con- cern for their brethren. 0 happy the individual who need never have to reason with a Yahoo, or require the com- passion of this most illtempered and crude of nature's creatures. The proposal set before them, by an honorable friend Te~'ure Elicited Several weeks ago the Student Council asked President Davidson ~o clarify the granting of tenure m regat·d to faculty pro1notions. The following is his reply. President Edward Skloot Student Council of Unio~ College. Dear Ed: As President of the .Student Council, you have asked me to explain the nature of faculty \tenure how it is secured or de- t:rmined, and why it may be de· 111 ed. I can readily understand why this is a topic of concern to undergraduates, since it is of even greater concern to the faculty. W~en a new: faculty member is appomted at Union College he is usually given a one, two, or'three- yea;r .contract, depending upon his trammg (whether he holds a doc- tor's degree) and experience, and whether the vacancy on our fac- ul~y is a temporary or indeter- mmate one. The members of the department or division faculty and the dean and president are usually given the power to take these initial appointments if the position has been approved by the board of trustees, and tl·ustee ap- proval i!l usually pro forma. One ex:~eption would .be initial ap- pomtment as associate or full pro- fessor or as head of a department· here the trustees wou.ld want t~ review the case carefully before acting. When the initial contract is up for renewal, or the faculty recom- mends a man for promotion in rank, the trustees ask for evi- dence of success as teacher and scholar and colleague before they will approve such a renewal or promotion. Each year, also, they ask for a \merit rating\ on every member of the faculty as a basis for salary increases; there are no automatic increments at Union College. After a new faculty member has been with us for six years of teaching or an initial contract and a renewal, he must be considered for \permanent tenure\ or inde- terminate appointment. In other words, after he is given this sta- tus, he can expect to hold his posi- tion until retirement at age 65, or until physical disability, and can be discharged ' -mily \for cause\-which means gross mis- conduct or incapacity. If he comes to. Union College with prev- ious full-time teaching experi- ence, the probationary period may be reduced to four years at Un- ion. Some colleges and Universi- ties grant tenure only to associ- ate and full professors, but Union CoHege many years ago subscrib~ ed in principle t.o the agreement of the Association of American Colleges with the American As- sociation of University Profes- sors, by which all ranks of teach- ing faculty will be considered for tenure. Administration staff members do not enjoy tenure privileges, though some may hold facul.tv rank as weH as adminis- trative title, and be eligible for ten11re as teachers. Since appointment to .perman- ent tenure commits the college to an investment of perhaps $250- 000 to $500,000 in a faculty men:- ber over the next . ten to forty years, the Board of Trustees nat- urally examines all recommenda- tions for such appointments with great care, and will not approve tenure unless the board is thor- oughly convii1ced that the fac- ulty member is beyond all ques- tion qualified as a distinguished teacher, scholar, and person who will add measuJ,'ably to the stature of the college over the years. If there is even the shadow of a doubt in any of these areas,. the trustees believe it is better to err in refusing tenure than to com- mit the college to what might prove an unsatisfactory appoint- ment. They must also consider such matters as the number of faculty members already on ten- ure in a department, the distribu- tion of ages .and ranks within a department, and the future of the department in the structure of the college.. This is the most im~ portant decision about a faculty member which trustees can make, and they feel their action cannot be a rubber stamp of faculty recommendations, but most ex~ press their own convictions based on thorough investigation. There have been very few cases in Un- ion's history where trustees differ with faculty on such appoint~ ments, but there are certain to be some differences of judgment. By law and charter, the trustees arE! responsible, and they have every right and duty to exercise their responsibility according to their own best knowledge and in- sight. There is not necessarily ~ny reflection whatever upon the faculty member if tenure is not granted; the trustees may feel that at the time the College can- not commit itself to a permanent appointment. Cordially yours, Carter Davidson, President \ ' Fridr.~y, MQrch l, 1963 • Dl4 Sch By Larry Hor~witz Ab From outward appearances it would seem that part of the bal- ancing factor of our \balanced college,\ the Engineering divis- ion, has seen its heyday. The number -of application of students interested in obtaining M.E. or C.E. degrees has steadily declin- ed over the last few years and this has evoked considerable gle!:) in se-veral quarters of the col\ lege. But, as professor A. Van Vranke11: Des Forglls .stated, in- terest m the M.E. and C.E. course~ run in cycles and it should only be a matter of time before the !lumber. of applications begins to rise agarn. Th_ere are many opportunities ?Pemng up .for Civil Engineers m modern hfe. En:viromnental Engineerin!5 with its new ap- proaches to sanitation a·nd con- tamination in Industrial areas has become a big field. Fallout pro- tection presents another new challenge to the Civil Engineei:~ It is a regrettable fact thai there is such a wide schism be- tween the engineering students and the rest of the campus. Stud- ents not majoring in Engineering never have occasion to deal with that department. They have no idea what that facet of the Union educational structure is like. De.3 Forges feels that an integration of the two segments is essential for a complete education. Along these lines he suggested that it might be wise to .offer courses in the history of engineering so that the student could take a non- technical course and familiarize himself with the engineering de- partment. Professor Des Forges is pretty well set as far as the new calen- dar is concerned. Several years ago he designed and coordinated his engineering management course, ptttting it in a form that is especially well suited for the six weel;l: winter term. The course By 1 is condu~ted as a seminar \to im- Secluded fr< able the stupents to. participate Schenect< as fully as possible 1n the iearn- camp ing proce.ss.\ There is consider- rnan~titu numbe able. reHance upori: oral work in the form as !ltudents delivering talks on various ~:;ub:i.ects, The '\n'> ~\'\'\ class is usually divided into smaifl is a srr discussion groups, led by the · s who r students themselves. One of the yea most enticing features of this while l'ec cour::;e is the bringing of men of ing il]Jmber o outstand.ing accQmplishment :in 1:eturn to Uni lndul;ltry to speak to the students. Besides th Thus the student gains direct programs to : contact with experts in the vari- sity and to tl .ous field$ that are covei\ed in the Union has se1 course.. Just this past. Wednes- schools locat< day T. M. Linville, the: manage 1 spots as Pari: of ~esearch Operations Dept. of and Madrid. G.E. visited the class. · have returne( Na exams are given in the are Peter Su~ course. Because Des Forges . Danny Schw~ feels that little emphasis is plac- land Pugsley ed on \oral and written\ expres- Mindel! and sion\ in technical . engineering Zurich. Conve cour!Jeli, he requires that his stud· · of the abOve l ents do written and oral re.ports common attitl as welt as a term paper. ue of a year It is of course a stigma on any sity and to~ college, especially a balanced one., contribution ··r 't d t t d t th by th. e tetur 1 1 gra ua es s u en s at ha.ve troub:e writing grammati- AH questi cally . conect sentences or can't thusiam for .spell , properly. It is therefore of spending t encour:aging to see Il1en like Des under a diff Fo1~ges attempt to develop skills cipline and apart from the purely technical varied backP. ones. One of the criticisms of . tunity to tr2 an engineering school is that it ders of the r uoes not turn out well educated university \' people in the general sense,. but students to rather highly specialized individ- throughout 1 uals who are lost outside of their behind the Ir field. One wonders if Union af. for example, fords enough oppoi:tunities for in the Sovie engineers to expand their interest His reaction to other fields. Certainly the five social syster year program is a st$p in this an earlier ed direction. as were Pu~ his experienc \THE SKY ABOVE Iil an inte last year's l emphasized · ture of Engl \The British if he regal' serious purs1 absence of 117 Mohawk Ave. SCOTIA, N. Y. SHOW TIME 7:00- 9:00 THE MUD BELOW\ \NO P-LACE LIKE HOMICIDE\ ance, restric andother sw impresse<;l • Schwarz. A1 British acad Schwarz fe adopted at l system in w dividually or a professor : of my Master's, was that they yield up their young that they might leal'n some useful domestic trade, and living in the shadow of the incomparable Houyhnhnms develop the rudiments of civilized behaviour, for it has long been held by the Houyhnhnm race that the Yahoo must certainly be taught his odious traits from his parents, for it is beyond their belief ( oh innocent creatures they be) that any ani- mal in the universe could be born of so low a demeanour Letters to the Editor T h I. o t e Editor of Concordiensis: of free and intelligent civiliza- 1 Last Tuesday night, the Union tions, they proudly exhibited their student body had the opportunity prejudice and spite which are the I The intimae the tutorial and more pr• ideas than found in m• sities, accor• and callous behaviour. to witness one of the most abom- hallmarks of their society. I After implorin2' these creatures to begin to reason, I inable travesties on democratic Let us take this opportunity ~ principles yet seen on this cam- to point out two things to the thought I detected the least bit of understanding in their pue. The last IFC meeting would. students of Union in genera', and I faces, when suddently they fell to so violent an argument, have proved to be quite humorous, fraternity men in particular: h if it were not so pathetic. Tak- 1) that fraternities exist on the that had net my Master retrieved me I would surely ave ing the floor, and with the entire campus only by the grace of perished. Two of the Yahoo's, one often praised for his student body as its audience, the college, and have for their . h . t th h (courtesy of W~UC), the honor- raison d•etre the improving and g;reat ability at filling in little squares Wit pam ' oug able repres~ntatlvt;s .of seyeral of encouraging of the academic l1e.had not the slightest faculty for art; raised an uproar- the_ 17 soctal societies display.ed achievement among their indi- ous scream. , urving· his fellow Yahoos (who to my discom- t~en· ti:ue and passiOna~e conVl~- vidual members. Their social ~:>· twn, s1m:ultaneously W!tJ: their functions take, as they must fort were engaged in driving one of their members, alas one !larrow-mmdedness and distorted always, second place to schol- b 1 · th · Ideals. arly progress. of my few supporters, from the meeting, Y re easmg eir The occasion was a motion, 2) that this year, as it should vile excrement on his body) never to refrain from beating, brought to the floor with some be obvious to all, the fraterni- starving, frightening·, harming, harrassing, or exnloiting help from our fraternity's repre- ties must declare their pur- l!' . sentatives, to banish once and for poses, and prove their adv.an- their young. Oh trusting optimistic soul incapable of com- all the hideous practices which tages outweigh their disadvan- h d . th b d t h f th Yah 8 to pervade our campus when pledg- tages which they will hopefUlly pre en mg e aseness an reac ery 0 e 00 ' ing time rolls around. In essence, eliminate, or else risk added have believed for an instant in their capacity for reason. the motion wa,s t(} guar<J,ntee pressure to clean up or get out; The Houyhnhnm drove the howling and fighting Yahoo pledges of all fraternities basic that if fraternities cannot walk safeguards against the near- proudly beside other beneficial UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT UNION INN-517 Union St. RICCITELLO'-S Erie Boulevard at Jay Street }.~ ·.·····.•. ~. [ '···- . ' back to their homes (if such could be applied to their filthy criminal practices which violate organizations, they might as mud abodes}. every principle of human dignity well stop crawling. by being detrimental, if not dan- The conclusions which can be Seafoods-Roast Beef-Steaks .. Chops My Master sent me home with the servant, and it gerous, to the physical and men- drawn from that meeting which wasn't until his return that I learned that they had decided tal welfare of the pledges con- passed the motion in a watered- cerned. An almost identical mo- down version with no practical to eliminate those vile creatures to whom I bore so close tion, it should be stressed, was provision for enforcement, are SERVING SCHENECTADY YEARS a resemblance. Feeling some compassion for them through pasRecl hy the NIFC, and endorsed likewise two: I by every national fraternity in 1) that the representatives who our common shape, I suggested (timorously, for in truth the United States. Tuesday declared themselves on the side little believed it) that they were capable of change. My night's motion also included a of perpetuation of infantile M t d h h f h provision for enforcement against and dangerous practices (their G . t• . as er answere t at t ose seemingly capable 0 c ange violators of the motion's princi- names can be read in the min- enera IOns \ G \ were few ana lacked conviction; that the agreement the pies. utes) as they are known to y h ·d (d'l t d \t ) t tl dif The effect of some members of exist, do not represent the true f a oos rna e 1 U e as I was was open ° vas Y - the IFC was ridiculous, if not to- and sensible sentiments of their hose ferent interpretations, which the Yahoo, since they are tally unexpected. To the floor constituents, or Wh K not guided b th · · 1 \al · d h t · rose men (or so they insist on :2) iy;tfi.ey. ·do adeq. uately express 0 now · · · · Y · · e common prmCip e ways 0 W a IS calling themselves) who blatant- the 1w.lnions of their brothel'S Have been right\ as the Houyhnhnms are, would undoubtedly raise; ly and unashamedly expressed thwt:~ 1 ,. ··keep their .mtJuth~ that the changes I felt my brethren (oh to be classed with their desire to see the physical R~{ti.;t ~top disgracing our recommending -·- ~J ,Itt For three . and mental harassment of fellow :ttlma · :er and the rest of so vile a race) were capable of would result in a country, human beings continue on the Un- th¢ Jlmiin race with their inhabited solely by Houyhnhnms a happy state that could ion camp:us. ~h~y collectively rih114-lsh speeches and their om- . . . ' . . . hared the1r sadJstJc and narrow :inous 11 fun and games.;' be reached sooner, and With much more certamty, with D.J.inds, thr,ough · t}l¢ use of high- ,Let me also say that our l'epre- the elimination of the Yahoos. flown if m:ot illogicAl rhetoric, and ~~!tathres left the m~l;ing as an A . . ~:xto!led their vil'1;1:il3S of physical ?'t~1·e. ssio. ~ of our .~ntf.~j;i'(~ .. fratern- Hauri~e B. Gfftubitt&.S•;s : las, m,y pleas ha~ no effect, and on the 9th of June, .torture and stul:\!ified academic 1ty s sentiment agam~. those Who I paid my respects to the rest of the Houyhnhnms in his progress. in a society whicl1 they wogld -occupy their n·~~ds with a H . .. · . . . . · . have dedwajled themselve~ to pm·- w<;n'l~erful comprehen \Ion of the onours company, then gettmg mto my canoe, I pushed petuate. In l'epudjatio~ ·o:t .every tr~'\7'1~1 and stupid, an · their time off for shore. g~arantee. of civil ~nd moral wrth Hvt inveiltion of :obstacles to nghts wlh{!l1 -are the foundations (Ct;nt'tnued on p~ge 4) ... ' 1 Jay Street Jeweler-s?.( 166 JAY 'ST. FOR HONEST. SERVICE A.ND GOOtf JEWELRY The follow recent letter students stu· content ref opinions ex1 are former nations: \The stu< considered ~ attendance almost no h and tests C< blue moon. · generally specific bool to do a fai 1·eading in o ~tanding of the inform~ tends to be comprehensi that my b ample to ha you the trut articles l:lbol 4ystem, I t: 'iumb A.me: >ea of red-h To my reli~ the case . \ ... the something 1 out once ir: · the advant~ STOWE'S I $6.25 Daily SPECIAL t. FOLD I STOWE, VEl

\ ' l, 1963 3 nion's International Progran1 of Scholars Cinema Review: Scholars 1 We can talk with students from onstrations were organized by the sidi.ng at Phi Epsilon Pi, had sev- '~ocking Bird'' A b .. !I,Aioad .. all over the world, discuss politics government and one was cancell- era! things to discuss concerning By Douglass Allen 1 ' . with Cubans, war and population eel because of rain. However, he his impressions of Union. In the for the , . . proplems with ~ndians, Aparthe~d stated that students everywh('?l'e f.ield of academics, he is impress- To Kill a Mocking Bird, based j miliar face or name among the The course By Maztm Jay . with South Afncans. Every day IS tended very much to be alike, ed by the close contact between on Harper Lee's Pulitzer Prize- cast which gives to the film one nar \to en- .. Secluded from the world beyolld; fl new experience . . . We gain seeking tensions and the like. the faculty and students; the low winning novel, is a movie of many of its many excellences, unaffect- parti~ipate Schenectady ~ft~n seems,. her~ un insight into the whole. Procrastination appears to be a student-professor ratio enables C'\'cellences. It is hardly Holly- edly good acting. This is partie- the learn- campt~s ,c_ol).~a~ns a Sl.;lb- .· way uf living of man~ other pop- characteristic shared Ly students each student to receive a large Kondesque, though created entire- ularly true of the children whose consider- IJJ:iJIII·\'\ numb~r of IndiVIdu~l~ With! ulation groups. We fmd out that of. every nationality. Professor amou~t 0 ~ help and advice in ly at the Universal' Studio, and joy, fear, and puzzlement are por- al work in expenence. 111 addition to there is not only one way, the AHen claimed that the Scottish ~hoosmg Ius courses and in work- its chief virtues are the simplic- trayed outstandingly under the delivering students .whG have 1 American way, the resources of a UniYersities tended to encourage mg. well. Kuehler, a government ity, modE>sty, and beautifully con- direction of Robert Mulligan who The traveling abroad, 1 nation are its people, and people ·this. n~aJor,. has attended the Universi- trolled screenplay so uncommon has paced his picture so that sma:H a small nucleus of indi- 1 are far from alike. These differ- Admissions to the University ttes of Bonn and Cologne, with to the Hol·lywood caricatUres of viewer and cinema meet in that hy the who have spent an enttre 1 ent resources lead to differ- is much mere selective in Em•ope enrollments of 12,000 and lS,OOO Jesus and the rest. hmd of illusion which is art, but One of the . year. i!'l a foreign nad- I ent applications; and different than in the United States, and students respectively. th:\1o 1 .cir 1 ing Bird tMakes place in which represents Iife as the seri- of this wh1le l'ecmvmg. a correspon.- 1 methods ... \ . that the foreign students a 1 ·e con- . Regardless of the close rela- · e Itt e town of aycomb, Ala- ous, sad, and sometimes happy of men of .. ber of credtts upon their: Bruce Joseph sequently mme highly motivated. twnships, he feels that .there is a bama (the Universal Studio) in thing that it is and sometimes ap- :in to Union. 1 Terry Paas J!·o·..vever, theJ:e are definite prac- general lack of st~dent initiative the depression year of 1832. At- pears. Mulligan has sensed that students. Besides the school sponso1·edl Jack Jakubec tical advantages to a university at Union; for instance, he has ti~us Finch (Gregory Peck) a the dramatic thriller chilling mo- direct ppograms to St. An~rew.s Unh:er- 1 Often ,overlooked is Union~s e<lucation in the professions, AI- n_?t _found that the Student Coun- rmddle-aged lawyer, tries to win ments of the court trial, the at- the vari- 5ttY .and to the E. 'I .H. m ~unch,. sponsorship of .programs other len explained, although college is cJl ts as devoted to its iob or as justice for a young Negro falsely tE-mpted lynching and the chH- ei'ed in the Union has sent representatives to than the St. Andrew's and EIJ'H still not primarily a place to ~onscious of its responsibilities as accused of rape. The episodes are dren's ,,·oodsy misadventure are Wednes- schools located in such diverse exchanges. For example, the col- make \contacts.\ 1t coul~ or should be. At the seen through the eyes of the law- secondary to the central theme wanagei· ~pots as Paris, Edinburgh, Accra, ege in conjunction with the Am- Several other professors have same ttme, he realizes that the yer's two children, Scout (Cary of the movie, the relationship of Dept. of and Madrid. Among those who erican Friends Service and Ecum- ti'aveled abroad without any spe- student is given only a limited Badham, age nine) and Jem Phil- children to the adult world and have returned from years abroad enical Voluntary Service, sends c1al teaching duties,. out rather amoul}t of respontiibillty, particu- lip Alford, age thirteen). The their father who attempts to act are Peter Sussman, St. Andrews; three students annually to work for professional research and l~rly ~n th!\ academic field. This children see with understanding justly in it. The excitement which Danny Schwarz, Edinburgh; R?- ·camps for the summer. Await- study. Professor Ferguson visit- srtuat1on 18 good for mediocre and honesty common to children. might only too easily please the land Pugsley, Accra; and A;rme ing final verification are the ed Osma:nia University in India students who lack initiative but They perceive an adult world con- average audience is toned down Mindell and Lawton Mornson, . school's candidates for this sum- as part pf ,his preparation for it holds back the better students. fusedly but violently attempting to the mood and purpose of the Zurich. Conversations with sever~! mer's program, Victor Faz!o, teaching. the· courses now offered He feels .that fraternities do and to retain a social order that their picture. With the innocence of a of the abOve have revealed certam Nicholas Apostolou, and J1m on Far Eastern Civilitation. It can encourage personal relation- father and the young Negro's life child's eyes we see the unfolding common attitu~es towa~ds the: val~ Kelly. All three will probah!y was necessary, he stated, to smell. ships and aid intellectual devel- threaten. The awe and mystery . of a tale which carries us to the ue of a year m a fore1gn umver- spend the summer months m India and see its pove 1 ty and col- opment through discussion and of the children's limcited percep- small Alabama town, its scenery sity and towards the degree of· Europe doing- what Dr. Fried OJ' to interpret Indian culture. .; x:change of ideas and experiences tion and understanding is arrest- and its people, and for the me- contribution made to the coHege termed \hard labor under pr1m1- p 1 ,ofessor Finkelstein also stress- al~hol!gh he realizes that any in~ ing and touching and gives a ment we too are children trying by the l'eturned student. tive conditions.\ Sponsored by the ed the importance of visiting any stltuhon can be abused. It is in- simple yet keen \'iew of man's to understand the world-in this in the Forges sis is plac- expres- his stud· ra:l re.ports on any one., that · grammati- s or can't therefore like Des skills . technical of is that it equcated sense, but individ- of their Union af- for interest the five in this LOW\ - All questioned expressed en- Committee on Religiou~? Life of country which one is going to Pl'e• tere~t~ng that, in his opinion, the inhumanity to man. very adult film. thusiam for the obvious benefits Students, of which Dr. Fried is a sent to his students, so that one abohtwn of the fraternity system Gregory Peck is the only fa- Diamond Head is a mixed ef- of spending ten to twelve mont~s member, this program is dupli• can bring together one's own per- at Union would not affect the fort of good and awful. The Ha- under a different academic dts- rated oy organizations in Europe, · ceptions and the historical docu- academic standards or interests This not true; following World waiian scenery is as beautiful as cipline and amo11g students of Africa, and the Communist Bloc ments. of the students generally. War II, there was a large influx some of its girls; the acting, di- varied backgrounds. The oppor- nations. Each student will receive Professor Abbott spent a year Shinicho Nitta, better known of American ways and fashions. recting, and story is often as aw- tunity to trave~ be}'ond ~he bo:- a $300 scholarshlp for his two of research at the Institute of as \George finds that the edu- It is interesting to observe the ful as its \cheap'' rich American ders of the nat10n m whiCh thell' month period abroad. Statistics at Oxford University. cation at Union provides a wider similarities in the views of Nitta, white landowners. who control the university was located led. the Union is also instrumental in He was doing work on the theory background of knowledge than do Koehler, and other foreign stud- HawaHans, but not their own students to travel ex~ens!vely reqommending students for the of money. He cited the associa- :nost. ~apanese and European un- ents who were interviewed. They conduct OJ\ emotions. The film thr<?ughout Europe, f\.frw~, and IAESTE p:l;ogram which, sends tion with a great European uni- tversttles. In Japan, a college appreciate the many opportuni- tells us that racial prejudice is behmd the Iron Curtmu. Schwarz, students to foreign countries dur- versity and the vei'y high level student follows a rigid,. pattern- tie·s· for comprehensive study but 1·. evil-something most of us like ~or examp~e, spe~t severa; days ing a 13ummel' for the purpose of of research done abroad as par- ed curriculum which is highly recognize a general lack of st~d- to hear and say even though we m. the So';llet Umon and I olai?d· obtaJning e:x·perience in a nation ticularly valuable. Upon his re- . specialized; this system, in his ent interest, due partially to the seldom listen to it. Compared }Its reactiOns to the commum~t other than the student's nativt> turn he was able to use the elec- opinion, does not allow the stud- fact that students are frequently with the movie reviewed above, social ~ystet)l. weJ'e recorded m land. tronic computers in the E.E. ent enough time to decide what not able. to wield any power in Diamond Head is like a mocking an ea1·l!er editlOn of the Coneordy Building for programming. he wants to do. Through high the college structure. The idea bird that cannot carr¥ t~e simple, as were Pugsley's reflections. on The Scottish Universities are school, however, the school sys- that fraternities, to some extent, yet complex tune whtch IS human his experiences ih we.sthersn Africa. Facu[tl\J government supported, Allen ex- tern is much the same as in Am- aid intellectual development and nature in human situatioHs. Dia· Iil an interview Wit ussman, J plained', but there is a stl,ong tra- erica. He regards the facilities stimulation ia also worthy of no- mond He~d is at the Proctor's. last year's St. Andrew's. scholar E • clition of academic f1·eedom. In for study and research at Union tice. l\1ocking ~ird is at the Plaza. emphasized ~he d~centrahzed .na- ·. Xhertence Egypt the gove.rnment rules with as being excellent, providing ture of Enghsh higher educatiOn. 'P a fairly iron h~~<nd, Hoffman stat- many chances for valuable ex- . \The British treat the· student as A b· .~oad· · ed, which unttl now has been ben- perimentation; such changes are if he regat•ded education as a . 1 , . evolent. generally !not as available either serious pursuit,\ he asserted. The Although Union has S\lffered in Emope; or Japan. absence of cump.ulsor.y attend- By Arnold Berlwwitz 110 defections of the ·faculty,. they. Ge 0 rg<J. li,as also noticed a lack ance, restrictive dormitory rules,. The greater degree of info~·- did' express a desi-re to· visit <'l£. \intcl:~tual stimulus\ on the and other sueh practices favorably mality in America'n higher educa- abroad again and perhaps ;fol' a campus~ He feels that fraterni- impressed both Sussman and tion was one of the outstanding longer period of time. It was ties are places where stimulation Schwarz. Another feature of ~he differences when compared to agreed that it is one of the best can be aroused and where each British academic program whJCh simiJar institutions overseas, ac- ways of understanding a country, individual can play a more or less Schwarz felt might well .be cording to several Union College on a person to person basis. significant p~t. As for the regu- adopted at Union was the tutor~al professors who have taught lations and restrictions placed on system in which students met ~n- abroad. In Scotland, for example, the students academically, it is dividually or in s111all groups :With courses are conducted in large DO,..,.t•dn his opinion that there should be a professor for ext~nded se~slOns. lecture sections, with the tutorial .LT 1 I ~ ~ greater freedom regarding at- The intimacy and mfnrmallty of system operating in the upper cY tendance and choice of courses, the tutorial meetings bred a freer classes. Professors Niemeyer, k:JCholarS particularly after the sophomore and more provocative exchange of Peterson and Allen have partici- year. ideas than in the larger cl~sses pated in our exchange programs found in most American umver- with St. Andrews and Aberdeen. sities, according to Schwarz. It was observed that the teaching The following are excerpts from load was consequently lighter in recent letters sent to: U~ion frOJ;n those Scottish Universities. students studying in Zurich; their Another observation made was content t•eflects many of the that the curriculum and methods opinions expressed by .those \~ho of instruction were less tmdi- are former students m foreign tiona! at home than abroad, and na,~!fh:: student at the ETH is that clepartments were not con~ considered a matut~ person •. No stantly reevaluating their efforts attendance is taken ~t Iec~ures; in those foreign countries visited, almost no homewol'k IS ass 1 g.ned, Mr, Mishra, who earned his Ba- d chelor's and Master's qf Engineer- and tests come ai'oun once m a ing in India and w:ho .ioimed the blue moon. Unli~e Unffn, courses faculty this February, claimed By Richard Sifton Japan Misunderstood It seems that the foreign stud- He has discovered some rather €nts are consistently bombarded strange conceptions of Japan pas- by questions concerning their sessed by many students. To be- ideas and attitudes toward Union gin with, it is his observation that in all of its glorious and not so American students are not as con- glorious aspects. The Concordy cerned with or as informed on feels that a continuous exchange foreign }lolitics and affairs as Eu- and imparting of ideas by the for- ropean and Japanese students are eign students is an asset to the in connection with American life; college community, so that it has he attributes the difference pri- again asked some of the foreign marily to the appeal of America's students to give their views and size and power for many students to make comparisons between Un- from smatler countries. It seems ion or the American college sys-. that many students regard Japan iem and universities in their own as somewhat primitive, with pee- countries. ple bowing to each other, geishas RECORDS OF COMEDY - JAZZ- CLASSiCAl - FOLK AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS I Tapes and Diamond Needles Professional Quality and Wholesale Prices APEX MUSIC KORNER State St. at Corner of Broadway Phone FR 7-1112 Mother Ferro's Restaurant·. Speciafi:driy in Italian - American Food Disrount for Union Students 20c oil the c!oHar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. gene.fillt k dy ~nloth~% 1 11~~~ that in the field of .Engineering ~~d 1 o c a f~h: amount of outside 1 and Technology_ this constant d . · der ·to get an under- ' change of currtculum was ex- ,·ea mg m or t 1 d t u If some ~tanding of the -lectures, because rh~me ¥ a l.dvafn ah~eo ds. h f It .t- the informatzlon given in them t mg IS o -.as wne , e e , 1. Hans-Joachin Koehler, an ex- 1 running around, and women t·e- ~~~~~~~~2~~~~~~~~~§~~~~~§~~~~~~ change student from Germany re- maining socially inferior to men .. ~r d t b quite condensed and sh?uld be d1sca~ded and . some- ten s ho 6: I've :found thmg new experimented with. compre ensive · · · . ll that my background has been Foreign students are genera. y am le to handle the work. To tell more aware of current affairs oJ the truth after reading many and are expected to read beyond ~rticles about' the European school the demands o_f the curriculum. 'ystem I thought that I'd be a They have rece1ved a better prep- ;lumb 'American castaway in a aration also before they enter >ea of red-hot European students. the colleg!l .and university. Pro- To my relief this has not been fessor Hoffman, who taught at the case . . :\ the University of Alexandria dur- Terry Paas ing the academic year of 1960- \ there is never a lack of 61 during the Cuban invasion fi- so~ething to do, ~ut we do ~et asco and the ~eath of L~\Q.mba out once in a wh1le. There hes attested to th1s greate1~ mterest · the advantage hi studying hE>rf'. in politics, although these dem- 1 STOWE'S FAMOUS SKI DORM I Jay WALKERS PHARMACY, Inc. N. J. Comanzo H. L. Walker 509-511 STATE ST. - SCHENECTADY, N.Y. PHONE FR 4-7709 Jewelry Co. 315 STATE STREET ::biamon~ ... $6.25 Daily (Incl. Breakfast~ Dinner) · SPECIAL MID·WEEK BUDGET PLANS FOLDER_;Write or Phone S TOWE VERMONT • ALpine 3·7223 ' . . ...... Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. _ _, ..,: . A.rnold Fisher '50 -~ '· .I EXCLUSIVE • • That's ~ 164 Jay St. Suggestion: • BUT NOT EXPENSIVE SWEATERS POLISHED COITONS IVY SLACKS CAMPUS OUTER WEAR ADlER SOCKS Show Union Identification Card and Get 1 0% OFF on All Merchandise Exclusive Sherman's Liquor Store DISCOUNTS ON CASE LOTS -Free Delivery 720 Albany St.

4 Friday, March 1, Letters ••• · philosophies are not the same,' \is not in any way an indication is the last institution one expects ·ston, but to prove an important that team by very close scores~· · but we would hope that the basic of a pending crisis.\ Neverthe- to find avoiding the .painful re- and relevant point: that Union And, final'y, Mr. ThuFston, on principles underlying all these less, the construction of fall-out sponsibility of thought, by stock- . should play Siena and Albany the only rE;Jcent \given evening,\ feeJ.ing and aspirations ·be essen- shelters is, in my opinion, a ing empty buildings with canned State in varsity basketball. Union defeated Siena. 1 speak of tially the same. A democratic frightening indication of a pres- water and biscui·ts. · Despite the sports editor's lack the 1958 Christmas Tournament the march of progress. They and body like the Interfraternity ent crisis~a crisis in the Ameri- Peter Y. Sussman, '63 f nf'd . in the Field House. All of which (Continued from Page 2) Oul . 53 othe1• brothe·r·s do not con-· Council cannot ademuate·l·y repr·e- ,· can mind. 0 co 1 ence in OU 1 ' team, Siena d 'd' 1 h · · · b '1 . and State dould not \defeat the ren m·s r1 1cu ous t • e contention sider themselves superior or pro- sent Jts mem ers if these princi- The fear which results from the To the Editor of Concordieusis: Union forres on any given even- . that Siena and State are out of I. Jhetic, merely norma.l. , pies are not the same, for a dem- instabil1'·ty of' a worl·d c. apable of A b · · , 1 h · our class on the co1:1.rt. · b d · b d s an o server of the I.F;C 1ng. ave seen aH three teams Fina!Iy, it is to the freshman ocratlc 0 Y 1 s · ase on the meth- destroying itself afflicts all Am- ~eeting o;f Februai'y 26th, I was in question and have talked with that much of the responsibility ods of compromise, and. where ericans. Limitless power breeds dismayed to witness the actions students (not only from Union) now falls for sanity and correc- ,princip!es are concemed, there a deep-seated insecurity, Most and ideas of certain Union Col- and the fact is that Union is cap- tion. If you should be on the re- · can be no compromise. Americans reduce the insecurity lege students~ many of whom are able of holding its own and then ceiving end ·Of a high-velocity • Our basic principles as students by ignoring it, by attaching 20 to 21 year old upperclassmen some against any local college. paddle ·or a midnight Bolero barn- of Union Colleg·e place academic themselves to the T.V. and dele- who will soon acquire full rights Even on the basis of comparative dance, or see a similar occurrence responsibilities on a level above, gating their responsibiiities to a. to citizenship by getting the right won-lost records, Union's .625 taking place, please contact eith- and n0t below, that of fraternity Presidential father-figure. Oth- to vote. These \men when dis- average is superior to Siena er of the two d'eans Ol' Ken Pay- responsibilities. Our fraternity ers, like the members o:f the John cussions were held about motions (;600) and State (.522). Admit- ment, who is president of the IFC has. not disturbed these princi- ·Birch Society, create their own .limiting the amount of permissi- tedly such comparisons are often and who has fought hard against .pies; it has rather strengthened enemies, against whom they can ble \hazing\ practices by the fra- misleading, but Jet's go a step almost insurmountable odds to them. It is our feeling, since not fulminate with a vehemence ternities took the attitude not further. In the case of Williams, . ~how the fmternities the light. ·one other fraternity supported strong enough to redu<;e anxiety only that these practices not be a common opponent, Siena lost by Last Tuesday night's meeting. Mr. Strosberg's motion at last and obscure the real problems. .limited, but that they are nor-. 8 points, Union by 13, and the was a human comedy which, some, Tuesday's IFC meeting, (see the I believe that the widespread mal, proper, and beneficial parts former plays a deliberate-type of us feel, if we are not indus- above resolution), that most fra- construction of faH-out shelters in of fraternity life. For example, game that prevents high sc0ring trious and careful, may suddenly ternities at Union regard frater- the United States is ene more a comment was made that a par- contests and large victory mar- turn into human tragedy. nity activities as more important dangerous abdication of l'esponsi- ticular house took pride in not gins most of the time. Further- Robert Skloot , 63 than academic progress. This is bility on the part of the Ameri- giving its pledges any free time more, State, whose record is far the antithesis of what we believe. can peop e. In an age.when one during hell week, keeping them inferior to .Siena's, lost twice to We cannot continue to ignore, or aspirin, three-times-a-day in a occupied \26 hours a day.\ As far as scholastic standing ;s concerned, Mr. ThUl'ston's atti- tude is that since Siena and State rank below Union, we shouldn't ~.-en consider lowering ourselves :o meet them in competition. Tell me, 'Mr. Thurston, is Union so .vain as to consider herself above Williams College 1 On the con~ ~rary, it is this school after which we pattern our. own institution . And Williams plays Siena every year! Let's stop acting like con- ceited, pompous snobs and ev3!l- uate the situation. We played Susquehanna in football. This was a mistake; an \thletic fau.x. pas,\ as Mr. Thurston terms it. , To the Editor of Concordiensis: b d ·r· · · 1 · 1 f t '11 \ · h en , or sacn 1ce our prmc1p es; g ass 0 wa er, w 1 cure any P Y- It is certainly a disgrace that. In its last two meetings and . we feel it hypocritical for our siral ailment. Americans are U nion men, who are supposed to caucus the Union College Inte1·- f1•aternity to be part of the Coun- searching desperately for a sim- be mature gentlemen, can accept fraternty Councll has thoroughly cil. pie political anodyne. We re~ !lhd approve of this situation, and demonstrated its inability to cope The above letter will explain move the threat of Red China by do nothing to put an end to it. with one of the most important to some extent, we hope, the rea- denying its existence. Similarly, One wonders how they will in- issues ~acing the fratermty .sys- sons for our fraternity walking we can remove nuclear anxiety by teract with society upon their tem today~the question o! haz- out of the IFC meeting last Tues- censtructing rooms underground, commencement. Perhaps it is ing. day evening. where we won't be able to see the because the I.F.C. is dominated Hazing has been defined by the radiation killing aU living matter by this type of individual that it National lnterfraterruty Council Leonal'd Korn, '64 · above the ground. · h d · h b 1 d \ t h · Oscar A. Rosenbloom, '65 The danger· of fali-o·u· t shelters as, esp 1 te t e a le ea ership as. .any ac IV1ties wh1c physi- of President Payment, been such cally o1· emotionally degrade, hu- Howard W. Siegel, '63 · is that they make nuclear weap- a defunct and ineffective organi- milmte or endanger .the well be- Stephen Shapiro, '63 ons easier to live with. The prob- zation. ing of a prospective member.\ Barton W. Kaplan, '63 ability of nuclear war if? increased '!'his is a reasonably simple Alan Denker, '64 immeasurably as soon as living Edward N. Smolar, '64 concept for most men of college Stephen Factor, '63 with the threat of such a war be- level lQ to grasp, yet it appears Robert Sherwin, '63 comes as comfortable as an un- To the Editor of Concordiensis: that Union's fraternity members • Robert Borofsky, '66 derground living room.· My sincere thanks to Mr. Thur- (at least as represented by the I hope that the college will re- ston for answering my first letter lFC) have some difficulty under- To the Editor of Concordiensis: consider its plans to designate in his column. However, he made standing the idea. This is evi- and stock nuclear \shelters\ on some erroneous statements, which denced by their continually nega- According to the last issue of this campus. The cellar of the I feel ·obligated to comment on tive response to a motion propos- Concordiensis, Mr. Mcllwaine has. Nott Memorial is not going to and cerrect. I want to make one ed by Mr. Strosberg of of Phi stated that the designation of 1· adequately protect anyone from thing clear; my intention is not Epsilon Pi which stated that the fallout shelters at Union College nuclear radiation, and a college to senselessly debate Mr. Thur- Union College IFC adopt the above definition and remove all hazing activities from fraternity initiation pwcedures. Also stat- ed in a motion was the stipulation that pledges be guaranteed six hours time for· personal needs and studies during the so-called . \Greek Week' 1 period •. After all, I hope most college students woul'd ~gree. that our primary purpose m gomg to college is to learn. Evidently the Union College IFC feels that hazing is such an all important character molding . event that it cannot be sacrificed at any price (perhaps a life or two in the near future). It was also clear from that general atti- tude and lade of courtesy dis- played, that the IFC doesn't want to be bothered by such silly ques- tions as eliminating hazing. The tour de force of the \pro- hazers\ seems to run along the time worn footpath of the weak and expedient conformist-\after all, hazing Pxists everywhere and always will; we can't stop it so why l~gi~late on the matter. There is ais& the more \sophisticated\ argument-\we are a group of mature, intelligent individuals and our hazing is always done in good taste with the best interests of tl'le pledges at heart.\ In response to the sterile and puerile arguments alluded to by many fraternity members it seems to me that if we have a committee to enforce our all important rush- ing rules let's also have a com- mittee to enforce decent and sen- sible initiation procedures. Fur- thermore, can any person in pos- session of all his faculties really believe that a group of naked freshmen scrubbing the floor with a toothbrush at four o'clock in the morning to the strains of Bo- lero are really profiting from the experience. l I think it is about time for the IFC and the fraternities making up tl1is body to justify their claim that they are worthwhile, produc- tive and mature social organiza- tions by completely eliminating once and for all l1.-DY hazing ac- tivities and establishing a com- mittee to enfor.Ce that legisla- · tion. · If we can't accomplish this sim- ple task, our fraternities are not worthy of a place in an academic environment and Union, the mo- ther of fraternities, becomes the nursemaid for seventeen collected groups of infants. Howard W. Sie~el '6.3 . To the Editor of Concordiensis: \All houses are prohibited frorp. holding late or excessive work sessions which interfere with· a student's academic respl>nsi- bilities or physical health.\ This is part of a resolution adopted by the National Fratem- ity Secretaries Association and enqorsed hy all National Frater- nities and Institutions of Higher Education. · Each fraternity ort the Union ~ollege captpus ungo:q~tedly has ·Its oWll umque fee1X~ga and ·as- ,pii:ations as to what ~·fraternity is and should be. C-e1•tainly these Learning never stops for engineers at Western Electric There's no place at Western Electric for engi- neers who feel that college diplomas signify the end of their education. Ho\vever, if a man can meet our quality standards and feels that he is really just beginning to learn ... and if he is ready to launch his career where learning is an important part of the job and where gradu- ate-level training on and off the job is encour- aged - we want and need him. At Western Electric, in addition to the nor- ma-l learning-while-doing, engineers are en- couraged to move ahead in their fields by sever- al types of educational programs. Western maintains its own full-time graduate engineer- ing . training program, seven formal manage- ment courses, and a tuition refund plan for out-of-hours college study. This learning atmosphere is just one reason why a career at Western Electric is so stimu- lating. Of equal irnpmtance, howevet, is the nature of the work we do. Our n.~w engineers are taking part in projects that iMplement .the whole art of modern telephony, from high- speed sound transmission and solar cells to electronic telephone offices and computer-con- trolled production techniques. Should you join us now, you will be corning to Western Electric at one of the best times in the company's history. In the management an~a alone, several thousand supervisory jobs are expected to open up to W.E. people within the next 10 years. And our work of building communications equipment and systems be- comes increasingly challenging and important as the communications needs of our nation and the world continue to increase. Challenging opportunities exist now at Western Electric for electrical, mechanical, Industrial, and chemi- cal engineers, as well as physical science, liberal arts, and business majors. All qualified applicants will re- ceive careful consideration for employment without regard to race, creed, color or national origin. For more information about Western Electric, write College Rela- tions, Western Electric Company, Room 6206, 222 Broadway, New York 38, New York. And be sure to arrange for a Western Electric interview when our college representatives visit your c~mpus, Wt.ste.rtt Electric MANUFACfURING AND SUPPLY @ UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM Principal manufacturing locations at Chicago; lllo~ Kearny, N. J.: Baltimore, Md.; indianapolis; ind·.; Allentown and Laureldale, Pa. 1 Wtnston-&alem, N. C.; Buffalo, N. Y.; North Andover, Mass.; Omaha, Neb.; Kansas City, Mo;; ColUmbus, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Okla ~ngllie~rlng Research Center, Prlncetor, N. J. Teletype Corporat19n, Skokie, Ill,, and Little Rock, Ark. Also Western Electric distrl· outlon csnters In 33 cities and Installation headquarters In 16 cities. General he~dauarters: 195 .Broadway, New York 7, N. Y. ( Contin\led on Page 6) I\.. tt ... , . . with UlllAIDPU9 Max9hulman (Author of \I Was a 'l'een-age Dwarf\ \The Many Loves of Ddbie (Jillis\ etc.) THE CURSE OF THE CAMPUS: NO. 2 AP. was pointed out last week, one would think that with ull the progreRR we haYe made in the education ~~:arnE>, \'omething might have been done hy now ahout n'>ommate>:. But no. The roommate picture has· not brightened one hit ,:inc<> F.thnn · ( :oodpimple founded the first American college. (Contrary to popular belief, HarYard was not the firRt. l\'Ir. C:oodpirnple started his institution flome 75 years earlier. And quite an institution it was, let me tell you! 1\fr. Goodpimple built schools of liberal arts, fine arts, dentistry, and tanning. He built a lacrosse stadium that seated 102,000. Everywhere on campus was emblazoned the stirring Latin motto CAVE 11 C SSI- \Watch out for moose.\ The student union contained 11 bowling alley, a clock, and a 16-chair barber shop. (It wa!' thi!< last feature-the barber shop-that, alu~, brought :\lr. Uoodpimple's college to an early end. The \tudPnt body, being drawn from the nearby countryside, waR compmwd chiefly of Pequ1jtf.\ and Iroquois who, ala~, had no need of a barber ~hop. They hraid their hair im<tead of cutting it, and a>' for sba ving, they don't. The barber, Tremblatt Follicle by name, ~~:rew ~o depressed staring all the time at 16 empty chairs that otw day his mind finally gave way . .Seizing hiP. vibrator, he r:m out~idc and shook tlie entire campus till it crumbled to du!<t. This later became knowii as Pickett's Char~~:e:) But I digrcNH. \\Te were discus:;ing way:-; for you u:nd ~·our roommate to stop hating each other. This is admittedly diffi- cult but not impossible if you will both bend a bit, gh·e a little. I remember; for example, my own college dayR .(Berlitz, '08), My roommate was, I think you will allow, even less' agreeable than most. He was a Tibetan named Ringading whose native custom~, while indisputably colorful, were not entirely endear- ing. l\'Iark you, I didn't mind so much the gong he struck on the hour or the 8tring of firecrackerR he set off on the h~lf-hom. I didn't even mint! his 8ingeing chicken feathers every dusk and daybreak. What l did mind was that he singed them in my hat. To be fair, he was not totally taken with Rome of my habits either-e..,pecially my hobby of collecting water. I had 110 ,jars at the time and just had to stack the water any~old-where. Well sir, things grew steadily cooler between Ringading and me, ancl they might have gotten actually ugly had we not each happened to receive a package from home one day. Ringading opened his package, paused, smiled Rhyly at me, and 0ffered ~a~. ·~ \Thank you,\ I said. \What is it?\ \Yak butter,\ he said. \You put it in your hair. In Tibetan we call it gree see kidstujJ.\ \Well now, that's mighty friendly,\ I said and offered him a gift from my package. \Now you must have one of mine.\ \Thank you,\ he said. \What is this called?\ \Marlboro Cigarettes,\ I said and held a match for him. He puffed. \Wow!\ he 8aid. \This sm·e bea,ts chickenJeathers !\ _\Or anything el$e you could name,\ I said, lighting my own Marlboro. And as we sat together and enjoyed that fine .flavorful Marlboro tobacco, that pure white Marlboro filter, a glow of good fellowship carne over us~a serene conviction that no quarrels exist between men that will not yield to the wal\mth of honest good will. I am pr:oud to say that Ringading and I re- main friends to this day, and we exchange cards each Christmno; and each Fourth of July, firecrackers. ~ 19Bil.l4oxshulmon * * * lVhe!'et'er you m· your roommate may be-on any campus in cmy city, town, or hamlet in any state of tile Union-you will find Marlboros at your favorite tobacco counter-soft pack or flip top box. -. , March Head The Garn~1 ng in theil;_se: heir twelfth v fter defeath11 ,ogether the fi 11-.1'8 campaigr • . . ·'·: ... .. ·~~·-:·:i:-::.::,~ .. ·\''f.{f) ':·o''\{;yj DAVI Dave Santo: rebounder in ketball histor following the in Memorial l The AmstE Commerce w plaque. Ams a·nd the County Unio Club are co1 him a gift il outstanding IJ Santos, a High School l ,080 points : on the varsi L:nion baskef a thousand pc the single se: fit~st as a s p(),ints and tb 406. H:e is also ' bounds durinf on the varsit reco.rd. Although l se*son-302 · ~ames-is the Coach Carl V been by far season. \The \is his vastl~ ing and defe has always l much as he all-around p better than l! This was S as team co-< ing to Witze portant role i leadership n• notch its sec ning season, r.ot seen at years. Santos is t'tajor and on i1 his class. l·een on the •·ut his fom THE CA~ Union 600 Where U have gat years. < •

scores~· on of which out of atti- State ion. Tell so If above con~ which every con- eva.tl- played . This tic faux. it. , 6) 2 all ·~,· ing; VE ned ~~ In~, IPnt JH('[{ !l :1!\ ran liffi- ttle. able on Otll'. and hat. jars and !\ own of no of re- mas ulman Next ead For As Cagers 12-6 Slate Mermen Win; UnionCompetes RPI Next AtU.ofR.Track Dave Liden Un,ion College will be among The Garn~t cagers wiH host the Engineers from Troy this even- Trinity was the victim of the the Up-State New York colleges ng in thei:r.season finale at Memorial Fieldhouse in an attempt at. varsity swimmers this week as which will compete in the Univer- heir twelfth victory of the season. Assured of a winning season they feU to the Garnet Mermen sity of Rochester's indoor invita- fter defeating Trinity last Saturday, the Witzelmen have put 66-35. Trinity, like so many of tiona1 track meet at Rochester to- ,0gether the fir.st baclc tQ back winning seasons since the 1946-47 the other teams this season, w;:~s monow, Uni0n track coach Wil- ;1-.!'8 campaigns. ' an easy victory for Coach Tur- ford H. Ketz has announced. Closes ~ On Wednesday night, the Dutch- ner's outstanding swimmers as Ketz, who predicts he will have 1 men trave ed to Geneva to face a they boosted their record to 8-1. his best track team of the past Hohar.t College quintet and tum- Despite the wide margin, the seasons, said his team will corn- ed in an impressive 78-59 win. meet proved exciting, as distance pete in four freshman and varsity Leading by a mere four points, man Bin Schauer swam a 5Ul running events a:nd in three field 34-30, at halftime, thE! Garnet five in the 100 freestyle, forcing John events. exploded for their best second- Boies to take a second in his own Chances of winning an event half performanee of the season, event. Schauer's ti-me was only , appear best in the varsity four- hitting on 16 of\31 from the floor. .2 . seconds off Espenscheid's lap relay which covers approxi- The Sti\~el)men stayed within sehool recorc! of 51.7. Jim Gar- mately a half mil'e, he said. Run- four points' <luring the first six rison's time .of 2:27.7 was only ning for Union will be Pete Burg- minutes of the second stanza, but good enough for a second place wald, Joel Nussbaum, Ed Cloke, with the score 44-40, Mike Sahr, in the 200 backstroke, but stands and Al Panoff. Burgwald and who produced a fine 19 point per- as one of Union's best backstroke Nussbaum, who have run the 50- ·formance, paired buckets around times this year. This was a gocd yard dash in :05.5 and :05.6 re- two Dave Santos foul shots giv- attempt at the school record of spectively in practice meets with ing the Garnet a 50-40 advantage,. 2:23.2 held by Hartman (class Hamilton and R.P.I., are \con- which was never overcome. Sahr of 1954), ,but this record will siderably ahead of last year.\ and Santos, also with nineteen. probably continue as the only one Nussbaum'~ time has tied the counters, topped the Union at- not held by a member of the pres- Memorial F.ield House record. . tack, which again showed excel- ent team. In the varsity distance medley lent balance as four players hit Garrison along with Will Grant, ·relay, which will cover slightly • double figures. Toby Lustig hit Bill Bernhard and George Papani- more than two-and-a-half miles, · for 17 points, including 11 more colaou took a first in the 400 Ketz has entered Gary Morris, • rree throws added to his previous medley relay, followed .by another Panoff, Jes~e PI:ochilo, and Larry string of 14, while Lew Jones fkst in the 200 freestyle taken Newton. Tile race covers twenty added six buckets. Lustig also by Bill Schauer and a third by 228-yard laps on a 4-2\6-8 basis. turned in a fine effort under the Phil Evans. Schauer was not A strong finish by Newton, who boards, where he led in the re-. pushed and let his time slip ten ran the mile against R.P.I. last bound department with 18. San- seconds from his school record of Saturday in 4:37.6-seven seconds tos picked off 14, 'bringing his 1:56.3. Neither John Boles nor better than' against Hamilton the record career total 459. H·is 19 Fletcher Espenscheid were up to week before--could give Union an points, \incidentally raised that par in the 50 free as they slipped \outside chance\ in this event, career total to 1099. to second and third behind a weak Ketz said. For the night Union shot 47%, Trinity time of 23.5. By leaving J?anoff, Nussbaum, Burgwald, making 30 -of 64 field goal at- Kal Schneider out of the 200 in- and Newton will also combine in · tempts. Hobart, which wa,; out- dividual medley, Coach Turner put the :v:ar:sity sprint medley whkh rebounded 63-:~9, made 25 of 63 the pressure on Bill Bernhard, cover.~s. eight laps in 2-1-1-4 se- fur~%. h d T U . f h d w o ha to settle for a second quence •. · he mon ros eYene behind a respectable time of Ketz has: also entered a fresh- season mark at 6-6 by scoring a 2 24 3 ·· · 1 f S t l eli d thrl '·Jll'nO\ double, over-tl'me 78. -76 : · , swum by Raymond of man 15-lap 1 medley t'e ay team o Dave · an os, . ea · ng scorer an \' , Trinity. • Morgan E?;mes, 4 laps; Jeffrey rebounder in Union College bas- victory over the Hobart.·yearlings. Divers Excel · Ratner, on~ Joe Schoenfelt, two; DAVE SAN:TOS ketball history, will be honored d D r..· · ht l Th\ ll . h u . R pI h h d Lawton Morrison and Dave an .. av~ i\.mg, elg aP. 5 : . IS fo owmg t e · mon- .· . . . game first semester this year e a an Warmflash added to the cause combmatlo~ ___ , r3:n the two mil;e_ re- in Memorial Field House tonight. ·A-minus average. 1 S t ~ th R P 1 c The Amsterdam Chamber of . The Eastern College Athletic ~ith a .first a_ nd thh;d in the . div-. ~Y a ur >. ;n -~ · · 'lr~.ff 5 Titne Out By Dave Thurston As. shocking as it s~unds, Union College boasts two winter sports attractwns th~t have enJey~d a great deal of athletic noteriety around eastern coHegtate sports Clrcles. The Garnet caget·s, seeking a .667 percl!!ntage on the yeat· as they host RPI tonight in the season finale, proved a _P?wer te be reckoned with as the respective coaches of Am- herst, Tt·tmty and Vermont would grumble assent. Paced by the fine al1-a~ound play of. Dave Santos, who incidentally will be feted at halftime this evenmg for his centribl<ltions to Union basketball over the last four years, the Garnet shaped up into a band of hardcourt bravadoes possessj,ng the coolness and striki.ng power mandatory for winning basketbail. Even more. pheno~enal has been the instant success conjured up by that erstwhile Englishman who has every right to be dubbed Sir Ton?' by .pool fanatics around the squad. Tumei· has blended a school ef f1sh guaranteed for acceptance by the :Starkist Tuna Company as weJ:l as any other aqua graduate school one might mention. just abo.ut ~alf the fall tu_rnouts ,never_ swam !n their h!gh school days, but then· results certamly bel1e then· experience. Records have liter- ally fallen fas!er than they can be recorded on the Foote Pool bill- board by the hkes of Fletcher Espenscheid, John Boles Bill Schauer Will Grant, Kal Schneider, and several other mermen' who have led this close-knit group to an 8-1 slate. Turning in the best won-lost record of any Union athletic team in recent years, the Dutchmen have h~rr~ssed m~>re seaf~rers than t~e infamous Sirens of the Odyssey in wmmng therr 1ast erght meets In a row. Only an opening day loss to powerful Wiiliams mars a perfect slate . Union is counting heavily on her swimmers in the state· meet next weekend at Syracuse. E\ceptional performances there would justify representation at the easterns later in the month if athletic d.epartment funds perm.it. . There is nothing allf,ltted at the present time for such an excurswn m the way of money, but let anyone cite a more worthwhile athletic cause. Union is finally presented with the opportunity to gain a great measure of athletic recognition on the basis of comparative times. throughout the east. One ana 1 yst deter- minded that time-wise, Union could be ranked seventh in the nation among schools of all sizes. Such excellence should not be ignored, neither by the athletic department nor the student body. If traveling expenses cannot be provided by the former, then we heartily recom- mend the student council to dip into its huge surplus of ready cash instead 0f penning letters endorsing goings-on about the nation in order to place Union in the public eye. Both the team members and the student body deserve to see just how well our boys can do, as welT as spread the name of Union College as far as possible. -------- EXCELLENT CAREER DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES 1.or Engineers and Physical Scientist!;; Commerce will present him a Conference recognized his out- mg. The 200 butterfly was Unwn's bee meet ~. 8 ·~ 2 6 secon 8 . plaque. Amsterdam townspeople standing· play last season by se- all the way as Kal Schneider and' the Memol}~ 1 Freld House varsity and the Montgotnery-Fulton Iec.ting him to the Small College Mike Miller took the fil·st . '' relor1h hl· t t will be Arnold County 'Union CoHege Alumni AU-East team. So far 1ih;is year places. Sc~auer barely had hme Ha~sler~ ~ & Jclm Willcox, both Club are combining to present he has been named to. tHe ECAC's to catch hls breat_h after the 100 f h .. hJe hit 42'9\ so far this him a gift in r!;!cOgl~ition of his· weekly team on three occasions, free before. he was on the block 0 w om ~A outstanding play'~Jt Union. more than any other player from again for the 500 free~ NOI;~ally ses\on.K. n.J who has vaulted 12 TheNavalOrdnanceLaboratory ~OL1lo~ated in a desirable suburb of Washing,ton, D. C. -now one of the nation's lead- ing research areas-offers sen,iors in Engineering and the Pbysi~:;al Sciences unique career development opportunities in: Missile Guidance and Weapons Systems ... Space and He-Entry Compom•nts, Cnderseas \\'eapons, Fire Cont;ol, Sonar, Fuzes, and lntluent:e Detectors ... :vl~:teorologlcal Rockets Aerodvnamic:i, H vdrodvnamics, Explosives, Pl'o- pellapts: Aeoust,'ics and Preo,isure r'ield,.;.:, :Infrared, I\:udear Physics, Solid Sta;te and :-.Iathematics. Santos, a foi'mer Amsterdam tl1-e 57 colleges which send in se- h.e WOl!ld have ~ken Trmity's feet ~wi:e riP practice meet, and High School star, has. poured in ·1ections. According to some ob- ti~e o_.f· , . __ 6:0~.3 . ·w. lth· .. ease,. h~t .• li.m H_i_~-~ s_; ~.·1_1 be en. tered in .the 1,080 points so far in his career ·servers he should repeat as. a Without ~i.lffie1em; rest, he. could:n t 1 . ulW Nussbaum will com- on the varsity J;tnl! is. the. first membeJ.'. of the EGAC's season J11atch h1s n\lritu:l:l::.~ac~ l:l.Pd f.eU ~~ .l~-. ' broad jump: ... L\nion baske£bal1er ever to break team. to second place. He 1Jmshed Wlth . Ketz . an his team W'lll leave a thousand points. He twice broke Master of ceremonies for the all he had but ~as stlll ·7 seconds Friday.. They will travel with the single season scoring record, occasion will be Ralph D. Sem- shy of the W'!nner. Wrll Grant R p 1 coach Warren Lutz and his fit~st as a sophomore with 372 erad, a 1935 Union graduate, has yet to see what the second, . · · d th t po~nts and then as a junior with member of the faculty at Albany place position looks like in the· squa to e mee · 406. · Law College, and one of the great 200 breaststroke, and the same H:e is also credited with 445 re- athletes in the college's history. holds for the 400 freestyle relay. bounds during his three-year stint ' Lauren Barnett, president of This meet's relay was made up · on the vm·sity for another Union ·the Amsterdam Chamber of of Phi Evans, John Boles, reco.rd. . Commerce, will present the Fletcher Espenscheid and Kal;. Although his point output this plaque. Justice Felix J. Aulisi, Schneider, and turned in a time' se~son-302 through the first 16 Amsterdam Mayor Frank J. Mor\ of 3:35.2. ~ames-is the lowest of his career, tuscello, and Horace Hager, a Tomorrow the Garnet Mermen:: Coach Carl Witzl claims this has. 'U:nlon alumnus who was respon- meet R.P.I. at home. This will be been by far and away his best· sible for convincing Santos to at- their last duel meet of the \\\'\ull·-·• season. \The key,\ says Witzel, tend Union, will jointly present and the student body's last chance \is his vastly improved rebound:· him the gift. . to see this record breaking team ing and defensive ability. Dave Also to be honored that mght perfom. So far this year they has always hustled but never so will be the team member who have broken 39 records a;nd more much as he has this season. His has been selected by his team- vo.'i.ll probably fall against R.P.I.. all-around play is 100 percent mates as the most improved play- Freshmen and Varsity will both better than last season.\ er on the 1962-63 squad. He will . be swimming and the meet will This was Santos; second season be given a trophy by J. Wesley get underway at two o'clock. as t~am co-captain and, acc~rd· Fry, president of the Union Col- ing to Witzel, he played an 1m- lege Alumni Club of Schenectady. portant role in providing the team Selection of the most improve.d leadership needed fo1· U:nion . to 1 played will Ilot be announced untll notch its second conclecut1ve wm- the ceremomes take place. ning season, an. accomplis~ment. I!J addition to Santos two other r.ot seen at the college m 15 I semors, Ed Tyndall, also of Ams~ years. terdam, and Lew Jones of Groton Santos is a, civil engineering I --;both thr~e ¥ear }ettermen- najor and one of the top s~udents I w1ll be playmg m thei! final !Jas• h his class. He has cons1stently · ketball game for Umon. W1tzel l·een on the Dean's List through- : will introduce them during the •·ut his four years. During the' post-game ceremonies. THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF LABOR CAREERS fo~ graduafts wHh S.P .• , M.A. or Ph. D. in: • Economics ., Statistics • Business Administration • t·ndusfrial Relations • Law SALARY is. $4,565, $5,540 or $6,675 per year INT~RVIEWS on campus Baseball coach Art Lawrence has announced that all candidates. for this year's squad should re- . port at -1:00 P.M. Wednesday to the Fieldhouse for a short meet· ing. It is important to attend. FIELD'S LIQUOR STORE 38 Erie ,Blvd. (Across from Train Station) Save On Our Own Olde Village Private Label Spirits We Deliver Free FR 4•6846 Down to Louis', let -~~ go;, Let the Jager freely flow.· HELP NE~DED MAY WE SE;RVE YOU BILL'S TYPING And MIMEO. SERVICE Dl 6-2866 WE TYPE: Term Papers Thesis Special Repgrts Stencils Manuscripts letters Addressing & Mimeographing LOW STUDENT RATES: 25c per page - double spaced 40c per page-- single spaced Minimum $3.00 BILL'S TYPING And MIMEO. SERVICE 350 12th St. Dl 6-2866 ASK FOR BILL Union Pharmacy D&J AUTO SERVICE 1372 Union St. A unique place to dine with old European Atf).10sphere 600 Union Street Where Union College boys have gathered for over 50 years. FR 4-3605 BRAKES - TUNE-UP WHEEL ALIGNMENT & BALANCE Dl 6-9644 NICHOLAUS ·RESTAURANT S.ince 1 895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accomodated in our RATHSKELLER , , ' ~· L ........ \\\... .... .n~s~:~.,·~'\'.~\\n\'·e ..... ~~~ You will benefit from a year-long, on-the-job rotatiomi.T training program. You are encouraged-and helpe~ finan- cially-to work out an advaneed degree program with local universities. All positions enjoy the added benefits of Career Civil Service. On-Campu' Interviews will be held MARCH 5, 1963 p~ write to W. s·. Wilkinson, Employment Officer (CNc) U.S. Naval Ordnance Laboratory White Oak • Silver Sp~ing, Maryland ~le:hat;l Roth's Upper Union Street -= Presents Gene Rogers Jazz Trio Upstairs DANCIN·G DOWNSTAIRS - SATURDAY Live Maine Lobster $2.95 ONE DAY SERVICE CAMPUS CLEANE,RS All Work Done on Premises PICKUP ~NO DELIVERY 527 Nlltt St., Schenectady, N. Y. Opp. Union College Phone EX 3-5472

,• ~ ' 1 1 '! j, : ... '. I '· ... II ~'! . . 1,\ i ( , . : ;.! I ~ . I : ! i ., i ' , 1 i ~ ; •fJ 6 Friday, March 1, 196$ ; IFC. • • . Weekend, • • · AlumniFul1;tl;Etilploytnent' Organ!l-ecital Biology ... D • B , 11 •.._ An organ t • eCital at the Mem- (C t' d f p 1) (Continued from Page 1) · (Continued from \ Page 1) rtve . ee , . ., . ~s I 0 f f . . d orial Chapel wHl be given by El- on ume rom age . I . I . . . . . . . . s . . er · · e . mei· A. Tidtnarsh, Musi<! Director, new work on the part of stu- : Tickets for the Wt=lekend ar~ are part of an educatJ.q.ha • . ms~r- T?e. annup,l A.Ium~r Funq W,lll : : . · this Sunctay afternoon at four dents. A strengthened Honors · available from salesmen in each tution. We set : UP '#-'!;cholm•sh~p . begm lts drlve Ma.rcb! .4. ann,ob,pc- . Th o · ff' f s · .J . A'd : . o'clock. The music to be featur- Pt•ogram and ap increased em- cup. ThEm We hypocritically · ed Mr. Ralston B. Rerd, '30, Na- eh 1 . 1ce o t~li!t:lnt 1 1 h ~~ ed will be. · . phasis on analytical, quantitative, Freshman Dorm Section and on make it impossible fo1· the pledges tiona! Chairman of the Fund. The now · e P 1 ,ng approxu;na~e Y a · · · · D · and Molecular bio-logy are also · · the first and fourth floors of to study during Hell Week.\ A · goal set for this year is $150,000, . of all Umon ~tudenM; fm.d s~m- I. Prelude and Fugut;! in · hoped for. Richmond. There should be at chorus of laughter had to he which is $46;000 dollars more mer and odd .Jobs. Publications Minor~Bilxtehude The NSF grant is to be sp ~ nt least one b1:other or pledg~ in · quieted by Vice President Schoei- than the previous year. on summer employm~nt. as well Gavotte--Rameau on microscopes and related equ:p each fratei:n~ty selling · tickets . cket, who had to repeatedly ca-ll . Last ye~r $104;000 were . ra-ised 1 as lea~s to ove~; 3,0~0 JObs h~Id · Les Fifres-Dandrieu ment; slides, demonstr.ntional ma- Single concert tickets and week- for order as Strosberg was speak- · m unrestncted money, Out . of · by UnlOn students . ~n the past . 11. Ballet-Debussy . teerials, and films.; constant tem- end tickets for comrnu.tei·s are ing. · this sum, $53,000 was used to three years are a:vadable to all Clair de Lune--Debussy • perature equipn1ent; physiological aavilable in the student activities . Stt<>sbe;rg J;ose for a second raise faculty salaries, $31,00~ .to students. . . .. Submerged Cathedral - De- equipment; culture .and rearing of office or through Dick Powell, in time . ~fter the mo1ion to delete rest?re . the ., old gym for adll!-m1s- .. _ The Stude.nt ~1d Offl~e has hussy . organisms; heatinJ?: and d'stil.la- Middle Section North. The ticket:; fhe 11e ' ction of the · om guarantee • tratn : e purpti's-es and to bu1<ld a ; been gathermg mfol'mat10n on Ul. Ascension Suite-Messiaen I !ion appa · ratus:. refere~ce matcr- ' 1 sell for. $5.50 per couple and $2.50 ing sleep to the pledges v;as ' . \'isiting coaches' room in the · jobs held aU over the._ worl~ and Prayer I 1als; and botamcal eqmpment. for a smgle ticket.. __ passed. He . ca~I.e? for a11 ~mend• · A~umni's Gym, , $10,000. went to has listed t~em. geo.graphtcaUy. ment guar.ante~mg not SIX ·but research and ~cholarsh1ps. and Most ?f th1~ mfor t natwn has ~ight . lJ,~urs .- stE!ep . 'to .t~E! ' pl~dges. · $10,000 went to the cre!ltron · of • c?me f.rom . m1meogr~ht:!d. for~s · Ag3iin .he failed:to · ehc1.t a fav.or ~ the honors program. Retd added f1lled out by stl1dents , ea1·her this ab!e _'!l:' espo!J.Se from hi~ fellow .r~p- that \this. money accounte~, :for year. · reserttatives and agaJ.!l Sche1cket 'fO% of Umon's endowments. Mr. The office has help~d students • had . : to ca1l for order. His motion Reid has set the goal to $150;000 find jobs in the gov~nment, in- for eight hours free time was in unrestricted money. dustry, and camps. Jt has also aefeated. almost 'Unanimously. ! · · The plans for this yeal''s Alum- . provideq odd jobs. : Mac.Doriald then rose again, de- ni fund,. now -tj.n its 51st yea;r, clarfu.g that the enforcement pro- · we1·e formulated last September c.edure as · outlined in the original . 'When Class . Agents met on cam- . h . CrJ;e • bill' was an .infrip.gem~nt t1.po:n tJ:te · pus for ctinics, seminars and dis- Y out it~Otrs rights of' the individual fra.te . rO.i- cussion groups. These grouJ?s, , ties rig:hts. The measure .as pre- led by Reid, were . ins~ructed on .· S • S d ::;en ted · call~d 'for a comm1tt~e of procedures and duhes of the Class . J ng . U ~ · ay six house presidents to investigate Agents, any alleg-ed 'infl'actions and report On March 4 there will be a gen- . The Vesper Servic~ this Sun- their fip.dihgs to the enth'e !nter- eral mailing to all_alumni solocit- day at 7:30 will consj;fit of carols Ftaterti~ty ·Council. ¥acDonald in~ funds. Im~ediat~ly following . and hymns by four yQuth choirs. refused ,:o concedt;l • the r1ght of th~ th1s Class, Agents WI · ~l also send The groups, directed by Mrs. Ma- IFq to snoop arqund the houses o~t let.~~s · requestmg fun?s. delyn Young are the Carolers, the ~urmg Hell Week. He was asked J!~f~¥-:th'.!;~e, Class Agen~s w1th · · Kirkettes, the Kirk Sjngers and ~~y t~~ IFC should not have s~ch .. z ~fi'~'r.eg - Hmal :md ; . assocmte · ag - . the Youth Choir. Their ages m1-r.~shgatory powers. He rei?hed,. ~ents w1ll . theJl make personal ap- rarlge from four . to eighteen ~·-r don't want a bunch of o:uts1de1 ~~ >peals · lind visits to alumni. The . , . ~nooping around the ho~se;_s:r,pio.p~--il'l\~e ,.,in end on Ju1y 1. yem:s. . . _ il).g into what we do-myestigate • · ··Reid ' added. t~at · \although the . Dr. Norman. P. Jo.h~~on stress_ .Yes · , snoop, . noJ\ . ~~ ; · executives wtl1 work hard · , the e?. that .sevetal prq~ment mu : - St'rosberg, in reply to Ma~;Po~ main burden of raising funds SlClans Wll.l ~ake par~ ln the p~o­ .illi:l; counter~d wjtll!: !'I am: - ;1}0~' ·will ~ :Pest. 9-Jl the shoulders of. tpe g~am. J amce Barne$, a fl~tls.t, concerned Wlth saYlng face Witfi ·?alumni wno . will go out solicit- wll! accol!lpa_ny t?.eF . ·9arotlerLs md · ·--~ .l · r undex·tak,.,.s · 11 n:•· - • . , T t . 900 t their recttatwn aues. · or -pa~_:.~...,sr.ueans o ·- \\\ . ·~'f- ~ -tng . .... .cas . :re-a1 · · agen s par- . - , . W . if :.; d L · d MacDonald. I'm concerned w.1th ticipated and this year . R~id ·Jes~s. qec1l r~g tv c an · m a the h~alth and s~fety of Umon anticipated between 800 and 1,000 . . B.ormg ~ll prov . 1de . organ and CQ1leg? shl~'ents. I w~pose a new He stat'~:a~.<ehat \with the full co-: prano .mUSlC for the ~;roups. ; : amendl1'!'~t, ope s~l;l..tJ.~~ th~t no operation and energv of our many ' Bestdes the hym:rts by . such fl'aterl:'licy . ~ ma;y mstrgate any alumnl. the drive will be success- noted composers as Mendelsohn, proc~ss that may prove detrl- ful and reach its goal.\ • Bach and Gl?ck, . ~he Rever- mental to the health and safety, William Hampton, '27, who , end Stanley Ym Wl~~ prese~t a or academk success of . any has bee_n . chairman for the : spiritual readin~ fro7-n ~)le l;l1ble . : pledge.\ .· 9-yt~~ · more. Sehe1eke~ two prevmus years,, was suc~eed- :. Dr. Johnson Will. te'fl A Story : made Ui:je '0:1; h1s gave~ m demand ed this year by Re1d as nat~onal • Worth Rememhermg. ;. ing order .. 'f;he, ·; :~notiOn . was de- chairman. Reid, a resident of ; f~ate.d ag~1n :· o~pwhelmmgly. Schenectady, . is General Manager \ . Ji~ · · of Adv . ertising and Sales Pl. • omo- • · B • dn T · · 'S~~berg ,,..alks Out_ ~ion at the General ~lectric Pla'J!t : ~ rt ~~ O\jlrney : St.tosbei•g . ros~ . dem~ndmg . a m Schenectady. He 1s also Pres)- _ . . . , . . . . poh~ t· ot, .. petson:al~.P-iivilege. \Mr. dent and General Manage:.; of t~e Vmon College . wt!fl ~ost ~~s Payment,\ he . siH, ; \I cannot irt Maqua Co~pany .. Hampto~ Wlll l Third .. 1:nn~al lnvltattonta ns:p 1- : ood conscience be ·~ part of an be Executive V}ce . Presl~ent. I cate · · Bfldge Tournallf~l . _ on . un- : ~r anization whic.h, £!' refuses. to ; W?rking c~qsely .wrth ~r. Reid .on , day, March 3, , :1:963, t~W$t C~l­ 'gu~r~'nte<a VW,o.n ,~blT~~e flt'IJB.~ntg thts c~mp.!\.~~-h ~ ls the ExeCl.;ttlve; leg~ Lou.n?e. ::rhe toumament w1ll a mi:iiiinum standard .. of health · Committee,-c.l>mposed of the qlass · pt:!gin ~t 1..00 P.M;. . . . and , s11fety, ~)i' a ·¥·ant of non~ : . Age~t's Society. The committee ~){pecte._d t~ . ~artl~ipate ar~ : intervention m ~~ItS tha~ con- cons1sts of· Harold J. Delshamps som~ parL~ , hndge . teams repre • cern their ultimate a<}ademiC Sl.].C- '15, Richard E. Roberts '50, Clem- sentmg ' Rus~~n s~ge, .Alba_nY : cess. I .give . my pro~y to LellJlY ens F. Hathaway, '35, Verno~ D . • State, Srena, E.PI and UI}tver:;atY, ; Korn.' . ' l{orn, . too 1 refu$ed to ~ay, Prenner 1 27, Peter B. ~ouhhan · of ;R~chest~r. Master pomts an4 and · the two ?hi' E.'P · 'l'e}1res'*JJ~I:1- '61, and Robert E .. H~memann, , h·?ph1es Wlll be awarded to the ttves wa1keil out of the -meetmg. ~46. J\1-r. Albert Snuth 1s Ex:ecu- wmner an-d runne~s-up. : After th~Y • ldt~ )?awment . de~ tive Dm~·~tor. Th~ to~rnament w1ll be under nounced what he- t*tned as \dra.. --- . the duecbon o:t: Ml'S. :Ernest Otto, matie&/; S: c h'eic~et, , hOwever,.noted . . . . a ranking . member ~f ~he · Sche~ · that tbe • t: · ourrli:iJ .: :m,_e1Jlbers wer~ · Know} · · edneBowll · nectll,d~ Bridg~ Assocl.ahon. ot;o : as much tb bla~'e as· the two Ph1 • . · · · e · · ~ ;~vas also-the - d.J;r~ctor !it last yea1 s Ensii~n Pi re:{ll:esentatives. He . F ·-· . d i :event when Umon, ll1 the pres- : admonjshed the Cl?uncil for its : un- . . . e a t · U r e . 'ence of ~he . teams of Cary Bad~r- ; due · laughter and theit blatant · . . . . · s~eve D1am.ot;d and Da:ve Ze11e- laC'k of courtesy. . . Mech:;1mcal d1ff1Cultles. ,_;forced1 il.).I.c.h~rd. Msrc1er swept f · rrst place Dan Prigmore then brough~ up . yv.R.U.C. to cancel .the arrtng of h?'hor~ m both th;e NS and EW .a proposa1 with the six houl's -freEr : 1ts two -· .afternQon feature pro- . duec;.t10ns, respectively. · ti:ine cl~use in it, applyin~ to .-. a.n gr~s; 'U{nowledge · Bowl and ''In- T4e e!J-b ; ance fee for the tour- . Hell . . Weeks _ occu:ring _ , dunng Jhe qu1ry,'' i.ast Sunday, February nament 1s $2.00 per te~~· Every~ school · year. The proposal: .· wa~ 24th. ' . ., one is '!1~ged to pa!tl.crpat~.. If passed despite the lack of Phi Mar . tyJB~rns, p;ogram dl~'e-ctor: you a:r~ mter~sted m. p~rtlCJpat- . Epsilon Pi's v:ote.. of the .rad1o station, stated th~t mg, contact ~1ther Wllham { Bra- The entire bill w,as then pass~d. both p t ograms will be heard t~s . :zell, J)l 6-~776 or . P~ofessol7 Ba- Eri(f Tbd~r btouttht . up a fina.I Sunday~ March 4th. Burml Said con, Chemistry Bmldmg. niece of leidsation left him by it . should shape up as a. very ~ ~x- . the d~rpart · ed Phi ~ · Ep · re!)resenta~ · citing a,fternQO~ of :r~d1o )~s'fie11- . . · . tives .. Ir co!}ce t r-r,~~ t~e ~ackim.~ · ~f ing. \Knowledge .Bowl\ w.ill ~ea- . hail from the Tri-City area anQ. : . a pehtltm m a'lJp:J;ecmtmn of thE> ture the defendmg (!hamp10ns several other teai7J. me.mbers d<;> merits of Professor Danese · of from .South Colle~e anc;I the ~hal- · als . o. S.antos a..ffd Tyndall are the Math d'et>artment. It was de- lengers froin Ph1 Eps\lon P~. from Amster<iam, Sahr ~rom cided that thi& was · outside t~e O?J \Inquiry Dr; Jo~~ Hame_s, • Schenectady, and Lustig . from · :p1~e , scribed realm .of the IFO s Assistant . to the )'re~1.lient, V.:lll: Glo:versVille. How \local\ c.an act;i.rlcy and no action WW!:_ tak.en: ~e an.swe:nng qul3s'tl?JtS p-q.t ~ 0 hllll . you get? At any rate, praetlc~ · ·The measure passed conc~rn!ng ;. ~Y a student oanel C?nsistlng of sessions are held before the end Heil Week and the pl _ ~(lg~ng · Edyva;rd Skloot~ M3tr.t:m Jay, pa- : of vacation as it ia finally, any neriod r-ead$: vid - Bei:~rt~;;()n, and Vr,~tor ~ 1 az~ob. :player who is up.willing to spen~ ' 'Re it moved: \KMwledge ~owl \Wll . ~ ;a :few more · q~y.s on: basketb~ll That the following: rules go;y~rn heard at 4:00 P.M. and InqUll!y ·shouldn't go put for the sport m the actions taken , J;iy :fraterqJ.ties · at 5:00 P.M. · ;the first place. · hr dea:Hrtg with their pledge~: ' Since writing m,y first letter, . . I have discovered two pl'Oblemp i · i} No . pledge may be subjected L fte,...'S neithe 1 ~ insurmountable, and ne,1- •· to a;ri.y 'l!mrea.SOJ1.able mental.Ol' • e . , I 'ther mentioned in . Ml\ Thurston's physical harm. · · (Continued from Page 4 ) article, connected with our play- ing Siena and State. . 2~ E~ch pledge must he pro~ded But the error was not in schedul- · · I know from a -reliable soru;ce with a minimum of six hours ing a:n inferi.or scholastic scho.ol, that a ·~coriflict of . personalities\ free time per day, during the but m playmg a far-supenor . exists . betwe.en,_ administrators of 11eriod ,exclusive of time spent . football . team, · with wh~m · '!'e :union and · Siena. The offi~a:l · in scheduled classes. · shouldn't compe~e. The s1tuat1~n !'with whom I , .spoke emphasiz~j:l · in !egard. to Stena and State IS .. that the· disagrE!ement did nd! . 3) No • pledge should be . requil'ed e_n'tuely dif4l~J;ent. I mere!y ~en- 'involve coaches, · and that upo~ ~l to ;l?.erform an act which may boned the .Susquehanna mc1dent ~i ts settlement, a relationship bEl'- l cause propel'ty d~mage or in · ortginally to prov:e .. that we ~o \ tween the two colleges may very ' an ' y .. way cause 1ll feelings to . schequ1e lower-1·ankmg college~ .. well matuJ?e, I don't know exact- be directed' towards Union . Is the . ga-qge of . our , academ,lc ly who o;· what.Js concerned i!l College. o~· its. student pi>~:(· sta_udards tHe ~chedu!e e>f our at:h- this con:ta·ov.ersy, but I hope 1t A ,cQ{U · tnlttee. : 'Ylll be est~~Jl~he~, · Ie~JC teams? Doe::; the -spor.ts is soon res91Ved. . . . . . con~1stmff of s1x ho~ee pre~Idents, edit(}r hone!:lt!Y feel. our sc~ool Finally, Mr. Witzel and ,M!· to mvesbgate a~y l'ilfracbons of would suf.fer, 1~1. standing or pr1de, Ketz must. . decide whether 1t 1s t~1e.s~ rules. I~ wi:H be .the . resvQn- · by . engaglng S~ena and State? , . ro,oie . ac:IY.~ntageous. to $crimmage ·. s1brl1ty of th1s comm1t~ee to. l'e- Another pomt Mr. Thurston · ' S\~Iia. and State pr1or to the reg- · Pori; to the I.F.C, any mfract1ons raises is that we shouldn't enter . ular season (a~ we do now), or 1 , · of the rules, : f!;Iiq}o make recom~ Siena's · Chi'istmas Tournament, play them later on possibly . in menda · ti-t>uS' for ., ~ri~S: not to exceE;Jd because our players \des~rve a the . Tour1mment, thus avoidin.g; $~50. !or · ea('h o-ffense. welcome vacation . break.\ HE\ ·the long . HolidAys lay~o:ff. Th1s 1 · <!Oiltends that since Siel).a ahd is a decision which l · have -no haskell the Schaefer bear f . . . , .s. Everything. looks brighter over a glass of Schaefer beer. It's the one beer to have whe . n you're having · mo~~ than one. • David 'llnrcll.h\41, D~puty Ch'it!f S~ate teams are comp.osed,Ia~·gely dght-to ~ven GOnsider, . but I thinl5j '\\ of Staf.f ju ' c~~tg~ qf A!r Force <:>f area talent, their bpy~ · woulatl't the facts shottld be known; Tl'te · Planning and- Prog;resa :will sru~~l!: be inconvenien~d . . May I dr!l-W true facts, J \ ( at · the convocatiOl\ 'l'ues~ay Iriorn- atte,ntion to the fact that ·fotl!Ji '1tg, M~nch 12, at 11:30. of this year's star.ting Gar11et 5 Robert Rice, Jt..) '66 .. 1 : • . . . \' . · : ; SCHAEFER BREWERIES . flEW YORK anll Al e.\NY, N Y, . CUVllAND, 01110

0 I, . l , · . .. ( ' t . I · P '·' \, : ' \ '-I . · ' i . I i 1 •, .i I'!• • :\! I \ .•:-: -: .. , ,, · ''.' ql \ . ' . ' .. ' · ' 'I • ' .. ' ' · i . ' .. I ~ .. '· · · ,. .. ' .. '. t'' t''\. :t ,I , . ; :•! I' : . : : L. I 1 ' -., ' · '\ . 'j ·, • ·: . · . , ~ . . :· .! il:t •.,. \' ' . j• .. . , · , : . . '. · ·: . I , . o ·' ' I• I ' I : · .. . 1\ . .. I '· I ' , ,'I '' · • f . ~ . ' • ' \ \' ' · ft, J, ... .. • ' 1' 0 0 : h ,'. I ' . t · I .. ! · •• :·t 'I . I ~ I • ..... l' \1 . ' . 'd '. \ • . •, . I~ . ;1 . . , ' . . ... t, ::l: - : :· ··r ••I ' ,' , ~ , I ' . , ' \\ ' I' .- ; • , • • .1 · r : l '. •:.• 'I· ' I. I I( · ll ~ '.' . . d·· . . ....... - ,, I ' 0 I Jll 0 o • , •t • ,! i: : I ·j· .. . , . .. :, o I I ' , I '' ' I! : ', \ I : 1 1 ' 1 j I: I'll\-. ': . , , ' ' •' :t\ , I' ;,! ,: IJI , • : • ' ! . . : '' . . I I ' • · · , . . : .• ·, ,, .: ~· > • · .: ; 11 .j ::~;. · ' , I ; . I : I • •• ~ ' ! • . l : I , ' i ,< ; •• l . f •• . . , I · I· . . . ! . . · . . . !• '•t . • I \' ·'· · ' .. , . . .·, ' , . , . ,I .. ·'· y . 11 ·. • . !! -.' . ·,· I . . . . . · 'I 1 • · ' 'I ·' .. I \ 'I ' I,' It, -: · ' I• \ 0 0 I • ~ ' ' . : · ' · .. I .;..:.. , · \I I• .. i\ .. • I I,, I. II : • . I' 1 · .. : : . f 1 ;• , . J!. .. • , .... . ' ' . ~ I• ·· \I , . haskell th· s~:haefer ht'ar ' · . ! ' ' '· I / / ~) I \ l .•. .t' '• , · o · ' .• 'I I · i · . I. .. ' , , . .... . ~ • ' ~ , o 1 l ' j I , I ! l ' I ' , t • ' I · ' ~t...... . : t. d I\ I: .t I. . I : . ; ' r ' '· .. (''. j( ! J / / ., ,- · J ·\' --<3 --- - -~ ~fi·J o/ , · J { .; ' J ./ .· ~ t . , ,. · .. Fr iclay . Mnrd1 196:: . -- - - -·-·· ----- .. • 0 .:t• j I ,.,,. I I, . :··· d . I d ·' I .,. :·~ ,· , .' : • · . . . ,.,.J. .. . .. . , ! . ' ,o :•·! ol \ o ' '' , 0 . ,, I l . ;., I • . • '11, o 0 o I I :,,. ·I.· · · ·, , , .. J ( ( / --...._ __ _ . ... , . . ..... ~ . , r I r\' • J . ,.,. . >' ;<> ~ I I I . ,

• ' l' ' ' ' tS l ' ' ' . ' . ' . ' · . : \I' ' I · / ., ' . ' ' • , • • \ ' I I ' I ' , · • I , I 1 h

• ' ' ' • ' • • • • l ' • • ' • • ' • • • • ' ' ' ' • • • \ /, • • ' ' • , . • ,. '~· .. f .. ;. . , ' . ' ' •' ' , . ,, • I ' ' . . ~~ ·. ' ... •

• • • BarumpQ · - . ~- . --:; . . ' ) . · I. .: I Edt Educat for yot college most ir In 1 otic U1 faculty neers ' the en1 athlete : by the by the in Hal power parent ! lite bu Th e · ' t, which , , , .. I I L, . . other ~ ranked Acade : Th gress \' truly s college or SOCl Lib raJ An• owned As oft portinl Schafe1 Electri and til Lester, by Th family

• • . 1!1urumpf1 I j • Edt Educat for yot college most i1 In I otic ll1 faculty neers \ the en 1 athlete: by the by the ~ in Hal power parent ~ • lite bu Th• which other ~ ranked Acade Th · • gress ~ truly s college or soo .. ' . Libra1 An' owned As of t portin1 Schafe1 Electri and tl 1 Lester, by Th family

Education is necessary for the proper functioning of our democracy. Education is the life blood of this great nation of ours. Education is good for you. Here at Union, a small all mens liberal arts and engineering college deep in the Mohawk Vale, education is our business, in fact, our most important product. In line with the present American trend of checks and balances, patri- otic Union is in the forefront of balanced imtitutions. Tbe number of faculty leaving is balanced by the number staying; the number of engi- neers who don't know ''L. A.'s\ exist by the number L. A.'s ridiculing the engineersi the number of athletes playing sports by the number of athletes capable but not playing divided by 10 2 ; the number of Negroes by the number of Martians; the number of books added to the library by the number leaving the library; Water C. Maker's portrait hanging in Hale House by Dixon Ryan Fix's (which used to hang there); the power of the trustees by that of the faculty, students, administration, parents, alumni, .and state; and the number of proposed left wing satel - lite buildings by the number of proposed right wing satellite buildings. The colleges of the United States serve three million students, of which Union is responsible for 1000. This is a record long envied by other schools in the nation, and one of the reasons Union is the most ranked college in the East. Academic The progressive atmosphere of Union is marked by the amazing pro- gress we are making in revolutionizing our academic programs. We can truly say that Union is the only top ranked liberal arts and engineering college in America which h a s been able to operate without either a math or sociology department. Library Another unique feature of Union is Schafer Library, ~!though not owned by the college, it is situated smack in the middle of the campus. As of the last audit, the music room is owned by May Maker and its sup- porting pillar by two artnonymous friends; th:e main wall is owned by Schafer (as is the freize), U. S . Steel, Alco, Bethlehem Steel, and Western Electric; walls by t:hi Pi (holds up second floor), Collen (third floor), and the class of 1908; the eleva tor by Otis; doors by Muncher, Winne, Lester, Gentlem<;!n, the Schenectady Savings. Rank, and L<ldies; the desks by The Sa r atog<~ Racing Association, Prof. Bronner, Milton Enzer and family, and the classes of 1929, 1911, and 1906.

Education is neces~ary for the proper functioning of our democracy. Education is the life blood of thi'> great nation ol ours. Education is good for you. Here at l'nion, a small all !Hens liberal arts and engineering college deep in the Mohawk Vale, educatimt is our hminess, in fact, our most itnportant product. In line with the pre'>ent .\merican trend ol < hecks and balances, patri- otic Union is in the forel:ront of balanced imtitutions. The number o[ faculty lea\ing is balanced by the Jtumher ~taying.; the number of engi- neers who don't know \L. .\.\\ exist by the number L. A.'s ridiculing the engineer~; the number or athlete'> pla)ing ~ports by the number of athletes capable but not playi11g divided by I():.!; the number of Negroes by the number ol: :\lartian'>; the number of books added to the library by the number leaving the liht al\); \Vater C. :\Iaker's portrait hanging in Hale Hou'>e by Dixon Ryan Fix's (which used to hang there); the power of the trustees by that of the faculty, students, administration, parents, alumni, and '>late; and the number of proposed left wing satel- lite buildings by the number ol propo~ed right wing satellite buildings. The colleges of the United States serve three million students, of which Union i'> re'>ponsible for 1000. This is a record long envied by other schools in the nation, and one o[ the reasons Union is the most ranked college in the East. Academic The progressive atmosphere of Union is marked by the ama.t.ing pro- gress we are making in revolutioniting our arademic programs. \Ve can truly say that Union i~ the only top ranked liberal arts and engineering college in America which has been able to operate without either a math or sociology department. Library Another unique feature of Onion is Schafer Library, although not owned by the college, it is situated smack in the middle of the campus. As of the last audit, the music room is owned by l\lay .\Iaker and its sup- porting pillar by two annonynwm friends; the main wall is owned by Schafer (as is the frei.t.e), U. S. Steel, :\leo, Bethlehem Steel, and \Vestern Electric; walb by Chi Pi (holds up second lloor), Collen (third floor), and the da'>s ol 190H; the cleYator hy Oti~; doon hy .\fundter, \Vinne, Lester, Gentlemen, the Schenectady Sa\'ing~ Bank, and Ladies; the desks by The Saratoga Racing Association, ProL Bronner, .\filton Enter and family, and the das~es of 1929, 1911, and 1906.

' · ! ActiVities For the well balanced student there are a wealth of activities on campus, from. an undefeated Curling Team , to the campus rag, \Con- cordy.\ For practicing sadists there are fraternities; for illiterates, the IFC; for Hamlets and Existentialists, the Student Council; for Bob Skloot, the Mountebanks; for Independents, South College; for intellec- tuals, Hale Club; for playboys, social rules; for masochists, football games; for girls, Skidmore; for students, Harvard; for poor professors, attendance rules; and .for buttering-up professors, cocktail parties. Social Rules The social rules at Union are both s~mple and liberal, and may be summed up in the general maxim: don't do what the Trustees wouldn't have done at the age of 85 . one hundred and fifty years ago. Conclusions For the student who stil'l hasn't decided to go else-where, let me con- clude by listing some of our notable alumni, traditions, and history. We beat Harvard in a crew race in 1830; Alfred Knopf chose to come to Union after flunking out of Princeton; Chester A. Arthur, the only for- gotten U. S. President, is our claim to fame; Elipholett Nott chose to be Pres. of Union over RPI; Nott is also the only College Pres. to have been indicted for lottery fixing; the first man hung for treason by the U. S. Navy was a Union alumnus; Union gave Rockefeller Center away to Columbia as a worthless gift; 0. Edward Polecat is Dean of Students; in 1812 we were classified with Princeton, Harvard and Yale (as the only 4 U. S. Colleges); we boast a singing President; Washburn Hall is going to be ripped down; Union is the womb of fraternities; we were the first discriminating nondenominational college on this continent; and Har- vard's been \Crimson\ ever since. CARTER DAVIDSON, President ·· .

1 I I 1 J 1 ·· . . 1 e:.c~l I -I HISTORY The history of Union has been a long and exciting one, though few prospective applicants of the past have known it in its entity. In con- junction with the new renaissance on campus we feel truth should prevail, and accordingly, below wHI be found an honest representation of our illustrious past. A visitor to the Union campus can hardly fail to note the presence of a grossly incongruous building nestling in the shade of the Shaffer Library. Discretely referred to as the \steam plant\ this impenetrable fortress conceals wha:t is and has been the elans vital of Union Col'lege. Herein lies a history that, for reasons which will be seen, has remained a devoutly guarded secret. The closing years of the eighteenth century witnessed in the newly freed United States of America a startlh1g growth of Bacchanal.ian ap· petities. Inflamed by the novel concepts of liberty and independence, the public at large developed insatiable thirsts for spiritus frumenti. The rapidly increasing demand could not be met by licensed distil:lers, caus- ing the emergence on the American scene of those etymologically delight- ful persons: the moonshiner and the bootlegger. Though President Washington often enjoyed the exotic spirits sent him by an incognito distiller, he became alarmed at the growing produc- tion of taxless intoxicants and succeeded, in 1794, in convincing the in- fant legislature to organize the fi.rst Congressional Investigating Com- mittee, with the express p11rpose of rooting out the newly appeared and all too privately enterprising potion producers. In December of 1794 the dauntless distiHers of the Mohawk Valley held a hasty meeting at the Schenectady Dutch Reformed Church. Rev- erend Dirck Romeyn, a baron of the fledgling industry, presided at the meeting, attended by General Philip Schuyler, Stephen Van Rensselaer and lesser notables of the frontier counties. Romeyn reminded the con- gregation of the divine blessings that the privacy and Ellysian climate of upstate New York afforded their interests and expressed concern over the impending invasion by governmental forces. FoUowing a short discussion it was unanimously decided that a coalition was necessary to thwart the federal emmissaries. Young Elphalet Nutt, present as Romeyn's valet, cleverly s11ggested that the organization would need a \front\ and that what could be more ironic and deceptive that an institution of higher learning. The idea was adopted eagerly, much praise being given to young Nutt and the promise made to him, half in jest at the time, that he could be president. In the best of humors the men drank a toast to

. i the envisaged cooperation. Nutt spoke up boldly once more with, \In view of the spirit of cooperation pervasive at this meeting and in lieu of the anticipated amalgamation of assets, I propose that we name our in- stitution 'Union College'.\ The suggestion was greeted with much ap- plause and for this second demonstration of wit and acuity Elphalet Nott was elected · President. Thus it was that in February of 1795 the united distillers, masquerad- ing as academicians applied for and were granted a charter for Union College. Construction of modest facilities was begun immediately. It was deemed prudent that neither the faculty employed nor the students admitted be of exceptional caliber, so as to insure the security of the undercover operations . Soon it became apparent that the conspicuous main distillery, though situated in the middle of the hundred acres, was drawing suspicions and conjectures. President Nutt noticing that the high brick chimney which had been erected to disperse the telling vapors bore a remarkable resem- blance to the chimney of the newly invented steam engine, publicly pro - claimed that Union College was luxuriously equipped with the most modern of comforts, steam heat. To this day the identity of the unsightly structure has remained obfuscated by that most clever of ruses. An ex- ample · of Nutt's honor is to be found in the case of the F. B. I. man who discovered tht ruse, and was put in cement and left to grace the center of the campus. He is now known as the Idol. Still the danger of exposure remained in the forefront of the trustees's minds. At the suggestion of a French importer of contraband wine, Joseph Jack Ramses was retained to design a campus, the planning of which was to be carefully contrived that warehouses, garages, business offices, etc., of the now international cartel might be absorbed and go un- noticed among usual college structures. Ramses,well instructed in in- tricacies of architecture, wisely chose a monotonous, mundane layout, with a melange of structures so unsightly as not to invite more than a cursory inspection. President Nutt reigned for sixty-two years in an incomparable man- ner. Needing more storage space to spell the bulging warehouses he organized public lotteries to finance the building of what were to be superficially donnitories. Below the ground level were four strata of the most modern, temperature and humidity controlled aging roo:nts, capable of producing spirits unmatched in the world. The finest and best selling of these brews was quaintly named \Old Union.\ Min or administrative and security problems were handled by N utt with great success. Fraternities were organized by him to serve as a J 1. , I , . I ' D t) - ·~ . . . ( } ''! 1 ,\ [ ' - ~..--r _ _ ____ , r ~

'l 1 ' 1 . : ' I ' · t.> diversion for the students, so that they might not be inclined to think in their unoccupied moments. Enrollment remained relatively static, through prestige became elevateddespite Nutt's best efforts. Sometimes he . could not help but attract attention, for instance when he had to hire Steinhertz to design an electrical system for the growing, largely sub- terranean empire. It was also seen by him expedient to establish scien- tific and engineering curricular in order to gain research facilities through which technical problems could be attacked. As early as 1850 three Ph. D's were granted in chemistry for significant improvements in the distilling process, and two in mechanical engineering for the design and installation of piping systems, doing away with the necessity of sur· face transportation of goods. So perfect and efficient was the empire Nutt set up that future presi- dents of the college were not made aware of it. The trustees found that their purposes could be well served simply by instructing the president in the ways ofan ultraconservative liberal arts-engineering men's college. Their maxims were easy to follow: avoid growth in size, grant ten.ure only to those rnembers of the faculty who prove sufficiently dull or indi ; fferent, squelch individuality, and encourage mediocirty in student selection, e. g. by establishing rigid quota system of some sort, etc. Today, under the leadership of President Darter Cavidson (1946-) students will find Union College rich in tradition, but immature in spirit, vigorous in its approach to the problems of yesterday and the day before, ami ready and able to serve its students by preparing them for uselessness in the modern world, and for a better understanding of their Alcoholic heritage. · , I < - -· - .. ]11 : ~--------------------------

the envisaged cooperation. Nutt spoke up boldly once more with, \In view of the Sl'irit of n)()peration perva!'.ive at this meeting and in lieu of the anticipated amalgamation of asseb, I propme that we name our in- stitution •t:nion College'.\ The ~uggestion wa~ greeted with nHt<h ap- plau~e and for this second demomtration of wit and acuity Elphalet Nott was elected President. Thm it was that in :February oi 1795 the united di~tillers, masquerad- ing as academicians applied for and were gramcd a charter f.or Union College. Comtruction ol modest facilitie' wa'> begun immediately. It was deemed prudent that neither the faculty employed nor the ~tutienh admitted he of exceptional caliber, so as to imure the :-,ecurity of the undercover operation~. Soon it became apparent that the conspicuom main di,tillery, though situated in the middle of the hundre(l acres, wa~ drawing suspicions and conjectures. President :'\ utt noticing that the high brick chimney which had been erected to disperse the telling vapors bore a remarkable resem- blance to the chimney of the newly invented !>team engine, publicly pro- daimed that lfnion College wa!'. luxuriou~ly equipped with the most modern of comforts, st · eam heaL To this day the identity of the unsightly structure has remained obfuscated by that most clever of ruses. An ex- ample · of :\utt's honor is to be found in the ca~e of the F. B. I. man who discovered tht ruse, and was put in cement and left to grate the center of the campus. He is now known as the ldul. Still the danger ()i expo~ure remained in the forefront of the trustees's minds. At the sugge!>tion of a French importer of contraband wine, Joseph Jack Ramses was retained to design a campus, the planning of which was to be carefully mntrived that warehou!>es, garages, bu:-,ine:-,s offices, etc., of the now in temational cartel might be absorbed and go un- noti<ed among usual <ollege stru<.tun.:s. Ramses,well instruned in in- tricacies of ar<hiterture, wi~ely dwse a monotonou:-,, lllllJHlane layout, with a melange of -.tJ lH turcs so unsightly a!> not to invite more than a ( ursury inspection. Pte~itletJt ~utt n:ignnl for sixt)·two years in an itHotnparahlc man- neJ. :'\ceding more .. torage '>pan: to spell the bulging warehomes he wg.111i1t . 'd publi( lottetic' to finance the building of what wete to he ..,upetfic Ltll~ donnitoti(''>. Bt·low the grountl kn·l weJ<. · lour !>lrata of the lllO~llllOdl'Jll, ll'lllJll'Ltlllll' ;tlld hlltllidit) tfHIIJolJed .tgillg 100111\ (;q>.tlJJc ol prodw ing :-.pirih unmau ht·d in the world. The flllc:-.t and !Je,t selling of the'>e brew~ wa'> (Jllaintly named \Old l 'nion.\ \Iinor admini~trati\e and 'il ' llllity prohlenl', were handled hy :'\utt with gtcat '>lHU.''>'>. Fr;ttetnitil', \\TIT organitetl b~ hint to 'erve a-. a .. • \ 0 ; . ..

. .. • \ . .. diver~ion for the students, w that they might not be inclined to think in their unoccupied nwments. Enrollment remained relatively static, through prestige became eleva teddc~pitc .:\ u tt 's best eflorts. Sometimes he could nut help but attract attention, lor imtance when he had to hire SteinhertL to de~ign an ele< t1 i< al ~)'>tl'lll for the gnnving, largely ~ub­ terranean empire. lt was alw seen by hin1 e:>..pedient to establi~h scien- tific ami engineering rurrintlar in order to gain re'>earch facilities through which tedwiral pmhlem-, wuld be art a< ked . .\s early as 1850 three Ph. n·~ were granted in < hemi-,try for signifi< am irnprovements in the di-,tilling process, and two in med~anical engineering lor the design and imtallation of piping S)'>tem~. doing away with the nece~sity of sur- l.acc tram porta tiun of go(}( b. So perlert and effident was the empire :\utt set up that future presi- dents ol the mllege were not made aware of it. The trmtees found that their purpmc~ wuld he well served simply by in ... truning the president in the ways olan ultrawmervativc lihc:ral art'>·enginecring men's college. Their maxinl'> were ea ... y to lollow: avoid growth in site, grant tenure only to thmt· member-, of the Ia< ulty who jH<>n· ~ulficiently dull or indiHerent, ~quekh indi\idualit~. and encourage medio<irt) in student selection, e. g. h) e-,tabli-,hing rigid (jllota !>)''tem of -,ome ... on, etc To<LI ~, under thl' leader~h ip of Pre~iden t I> a ncr Cav i<bon (I 9·11i·) -.tlldenh will find l'nion College ri<h in tradition, but immature in ~pirit, \ igorom in ih approach to the problem-. ol ~e'>tenlay and the day before, and 1 ead) and able to serve its ... tudenr... h~ preparing them lor u ... ele!>'>lle'>~ in the 111odcm woJ!d, and lor a better unde1~tanding of their Alcoholic heritage. ~~ ~ ~~ ............................................................................................ ..

·j il ,t I I · ' I I STUDENT LIFE R00:\ · 1 Union is famed for its excellent freshman dormitory conditions, which combine country dub-like physical plants with monestary-like study con- ditions. I:n fact, the school is often called the \rnonestary on the hill\ because of this. Accommodations measure a spacious three square feet for every two students, unlike other inferior schools which allow even less than . this for closet space. 'Vith regards to closets, one is provided for every two students but may only be used to conceal females in the event a nosy campus cop should interfere during a student's recreation period. For clothes, however, a good-sized, sturdy curtain rod is provided over each window which is more than sufficient for hanging two suits, or four sets of underwear, depending on the student. No curtains are provided as the hanging clothes sufficiently serve the same purpose. However, if full use is not made of the closet space in concealing the above mentioned recreation facilities, it will be curtains for the student involved. Although the college believes in supplying its freshmen with some- what luxurous dorm conditions, it also believes that a firm but comfort- able bed will be best for the student. Therefore, for conditioning pur- poses, it is suggested that sub-frosh spend the summer, preceding their admission, sleeping on the grmmd in a convenient scout camp located somewhere in the Himalayas. If the student plans to make use of the above-mentioned closet facilities, he may also wish to have a double bed installed in his room. This can he arranged with the Dean, if a $100 \deposit\ accompanies the request under the table. The student will be most happy with the interior decoration of his room as a uniform gray color is used and, thus, any form of discrimin- ation has been eliminated. When a student wishes to summon a fellow student, he will be most pleased to discover that he is able to call to any student within hearing distance, which usually encompa~scs the entire dorm. J ; e , ... •

~ 1 . I J 1 ' 1 J I · ; f J , . I ' < t . I ' S l J 1 . i ·n • c I r Occasionally when dormitory conditions get ot:tt of hand, (which is extremely seldom) a convenient dormitory counselor can usually be found within a 25 mile radius. Also, these counselors are always wilhng to listen to the student's personal problems or scholastic difficulties for it's not often that he gets a good chuckle. ~!aids are employed by the college to maintain sanitary conditions that are conducive to neat, orderly living in the dorms. Daily, the waste- baskets are empt · ied and rooms are swept and, occasionally, the maids will relieve the students of this task. Following requirements set up by the college, each .maid must be a graduate of Skidmore College and there- fore, is expected to spend a good deal of her work day improving her mind by reading John O'Hara novels in her office (which is sometimes in- correctly referred to as a closet). One day each week, however, maids are directed to change each student's bed in such a way as to make it neces- sary for him to spend a sufficient amount of time in tucking sheets back in, so as to fulfill Union's stringent physical fitness program . Although radiators are located in each room, students are not ex- pected to attempt to make use of them as they will be in for a big surprise. BOOKSTORE The College Bookstore has the curious distinction of being the only institution on campus to he listed in Dun & Bradstreeet. Under the able leadership of Mrs. Hilda Pirate, the hookstore l}as managed to run in the black for the last one-hundred and sixty-eight years. As one enters the siege-proof door of this campus establishment, one cannot help but notice the complete selection of hooks which the store is stocking for the first time this year. ~Irs. Pirat~ explained, \Since we had such good luck with the Cherry Ames series and the Rover Boys, we finally decided that books really have a place here at the store.\ The influence of this type of daring thinking makes itself felt in the bookstacks of the store. Classics like the works of Jack London and H. Rider Haggard stand side by side with Kipling's .Jungle Books and Thl~ Count of Monte Cristo. In yet another corner of the store, a complete ~election of long-playing records attracts the fastidious consumer. Here, one can pick and choose between the be~t of y[antovani and the Melochrino Strings, many different ver- ~iom of Bolero, and enough Hungarian Rhapsodies to make Ernie Kovacs whimper in his grave. ,., ' I ~I 1 I , 1 , J · ~~ .................................................... .

I f The Bookstore is also renown for its complete selection of sundries for the convenience of the campus population.. ~Irs. Pirate takes partic- ular pride in the collection of items hnprinted with the college seal, among then1: l\lugs, bathmats, towels, matches, m.artini pitchers, stuffed vertebrates, n.ightgowns, and assorted lingerie imported directly from Frederick's of Hollywood. !\Irs. Pirate received a personal commenda- tion front the emperor of Japan last year for her boost to the Japanese ceramic ashtray business. To insure that only the highest quality merchandise is sold on the campus, a college rule requests that no student undersell the bookstore on comparative items. A recent attempt to sell spurious slide rules at below the fair-trade list price was quickly quenched and the perpetrators of the plot were dealt with severely. To met.Hbers of the campus with us~d books to sell, the bookstore is again a great boon. Annually, :\Irs. Pirate's brother drives up from Brook- lyn with a few business associates to conclude deals with students wish- ing to sell their textbooks. l\fr. Diaguardi, as the gentleman is called, prides himself on never having an unsatisfied customer. COLLEGE HEALTH SERVICE To maintain the health and welfare of all of the students on campus, the college maintains a dean, efficient, up-to-date Health Senice. Each student is asked to imure himself against disease with a health insurance policy at the opening of the term, but should this talisman fail to keep away the evil spirits of sickness, . the directors of the College Health Service have adequate fadlities for treatment. Last year, medical history was made by the Service when some preliminary research led to the disco\'ery of PINK-X, a drug compound which will probably revolutioniLe the sicenre of medicine. College technicians have managed to correlate all of the diseases known to modern man and haYe succeeded in offering PII\:K-X as a solution. PINK-X is an inobtrusive looking reddish liquid which comes in a small glass bottle. By taking one spoonful of Pli\K-X three times a day, one can cure colds, flu, pneumonia. broken bones, displaced cartilages, malaria, beri-beri, the agucs, gout. and yellow lever in all of its known forms. 'Vhen asked for comment on this miracle rom- pound, the rollege physidan, Dr. :\fanin Feavor, replied , \Hmmm Dr. Feavor is assisted in the Service by 1\Irs. Eleanor By-cracky. 1 1 J '] I • \\;fi .: 1 r I ' ·: • I ·if' '1 ll ~ , , \ ··~J J. I L I I ~----~ ~- 1__

1 1 ] J ,~~lil , . · .j ' e. · i i I ' · ~ · I · If ' '~'f lr 1. . ...., I I GROUNDS CREW In an attempt to keep the beauty of the campus at a high level, the college employs a group of engineers and horticulturalists to maintain the physical plant. In addition to the prodigious project of mowing the acres of lawn around the quad, the Grounds Cre-f,· always sees to it that winter's slush and the mud of spring are well distributed around the campus. Helpin,g them ot balance the physical aspect of the college are many worksaving machines, including wheeled vehicles. Rather than pursue a too-litt~e-and-too-late policy of campus repairs, the crew volun- tarily goes out and inspects the area periodically. It is a general policy of the crew that the campus never be without some sort of excavation at all times. As one member of the crew put i.t: \Look ... eventually, the heating pipes are going to develop leaps ... right? Well, we figure that it's better to patch them now than when we've got a real leak 'cause that's much more trouble.\ His wisdom was upheld by another member of the crew who confided: \We will never leave a stone unturned in our continual search for· excellence.\ BOARD Food is served to freshman in the West College dining hall, commonly referred to as the \W. C.\ The dining hall is run by Saga Food Service which buys the same top quality food for all 250 colleges it serves. The Food Service · often runs a food popularity surv ' ey among the students, the results of which are used to determine what food is served at these col- leges. Unfortun.ately, the other 249 schools are located in Western Tanganyika. A number is issued to each student, eating in the dining hall, which indicates the number of calories his body is able to absorb beneficially as determined by · the school physician, Dr. Feavor. The student's meals are then planned accordingly. The food service uses ortly the most nutritive highest quality domestic food and is indeed fortunate that the West College waste drainage sys- tem empties just outside its kitchen. 1n its striving for variation in meals, without incuring exhorbitant costs which must be passed on to the student, Saga makes use of bottled food aromas, such as \Essence of Sirloin Steak\ while continuously serv- ing different cuts of aardvark meat. ' t . - · lL~---------------111111111

I I · At a typical meal, the frosh are greeted by the pleasant smiling faces of the happy, contented kitchen help. They lovingly serve him goodies his mother would be proud to serve him (if she happened to be a Mau- Mau.) It should be pointed out that the student may ask for an un- limited- number of helpings, depending on how much punishment he can take. There. is also an unlimited supply of milk and water available, and for convenience's sake they are found in the same dispenser. Unio:n, as the \Mother of Fraternities,\ continually strives to preserve the fraternity traditioR. Therefore, when freslunen discover the difference between fraternity meals and those in the \W. C.,\ they invariably de- cide to join fraternities rather than remain in the undernourished, state of deprivation they must endure during the freshman year. Clever old devils, aren't we? '( .

: \t a typical meal, the frosi1 arc greeted hy the pleasant smiling faces of the happy, contented k i tchcn he! p. They lovingly ~ervc him goodies hi~ mother would be proud to -,ern.· him (il' -,he happened to he a !\lau- !\lau.) It ~hould be pointed out that the '>tudent may a~k for an un- limited tJumber of helping~. dt\pending on how much puni~hment he can take. There is abo a11 unlimited ~upply of milk and \·\'ater available, and tor conn·niet1ce\ ~ake they arc found in the \ame dispcmer. l 'nion, as the \:\lother oi Fraternitie-.,\ continually striws to preserve the fraternity tradition. Therefore, when fre~hmen di'>wver the dillerence between fraternity r11eah and thmc in the \\V. C.,\ they inntriahly de- cide to join lratemitie\ rather than remain in the undemouri:-.hed, state ol deprivation the) mu:-.t endttre dtu'ing the freshman year. Clever old devib, aren't we? I • . .. . \ •

CURRICULA 1. Division of Humanities ENGLISH HAROLD WHITMAN STODGET_ __ ---------------------Ph.D. Cornell, 1842 JOHN WALKER BRADBEY ---------------------~--Ph.D. Manhattan, 1939 CODFISH NOTT HICCUP-------------------- - ---------Ph.D Union, 1935 A. c. MURPHY -------------------~---------Harvard, Harvard, Harvard LEOPOLD MEYER ____________________________________ A. B. Kansas, etc. o. LONG WEEKs ______________________________________ M. A. Columbia RICHARD MOBY ASBURN-----------~------------Ph.D New Guinea, 1954 H. RICKY NELSON------------------------------------------Ph., 1958 AGEMEMNON X. Z. NULLMAN ________________________ Ph.D Erasmus, 1954 GIP WINSNAKL-------------------------------------Ph.D. State, 1954 IRVING ISIDORE KLEMENTL------------------------- B. B. Yeshiva, 1962 PHRANQUE DODo ________________________ Certif. Townsend Harris, 1962 !a-lb. 'PuNcTUATION AND SPELLING. Text: McGuffey's Reader Gramps Weeks 2. PuBLIC SPEAKING. Text: A. Lawrence's Famous Speeches. ed. Doyle. Winsnake 3. GRoNY DYNAMics: BRUNCH WITH GIP. No text, no exams, no attendance. Meets only by appointment. Winsnake lOa-lOb. 1\:IAJOR TRENDS IN ENGLISH LITERATURE. A comprehensive !>Llllly of: \Vestmoreland poet, Skelton Lydgate, Pye, Lear, Dunbar, Latin Poems of Gower Ascham, Burney, A.E. All (or no) profs I . ' ·

( • '< \ , . \ • CURRICULA 1. Division of Humanities ENGLISH 11 . \RoLI> WHIT\f.-'~ ~Tm>c;F.T ______________________ - Ph.O. Cornell, 1842 JoB:-; \\'.\LKER URAmn:y ________________________ Ph.D. Hanhattan, 1939 COI>FbH :-;orr HICCl ' l' ______________________________ p}J_]) Union, 1935 A. c. \tl ' RI'H\' ________ ~ ____________________ Harvard, Harvard, Hanard LEOPOLD \EYER ____________________________________ ;\_ B. Kansas, etc. n. Lo:-;c; WEEKs _______ --------------------- _________ J\1. A. Columbia RICHARD :\lOB\' A~BI'R;'\; ________________________ J>h.D i'\ew Guinea, !95·1 H. RICKY !\'ELSO;'\; __________________________________________ ph,, 1958 AGDtn · t:-;o::-..: x. z. 1'\l'LL\t:\:-; ________________________ pll.i) Erasmm, 195 · 1 c;n• wr:-;~!\'AKI· : ______________________________________ Ph.D. State, I 95-1 IR\'1;'\;G I~IDORE KI.E:-.nxrs __________________________ H. B. Yeshiva, 1962 PHRA:o-;Ql ' E oouo ________________________ Certif. Townsend Harris, 1962 la-1 b. PuNCTl 1 ATIO:-l AND SPELLI!\'G. Text: :McGuffey's Reader Gramps Weeks 2. Pcnuc SPEAKI!\'G. Text: A. Lawrence's Famous Speeches. ed. Doyle. \Vinsnake 3. GRo!\'Y DY:o-;A\IIc~: BRt·::-..:cu \\'ITB Gil'. i\o text, no exams, no attendance. l\Ieets only uy appointment. \Vin~nake lOa-lOb. ~hJ<>R TRI·::-;n.., 1:-.: E::-..:<a . I:-.1! LIIER.\Tl'RE. .\. comprchemive :-.ttal) ol: \\'e:-.tlllorelaml poet, Skelton L)dgate, Pye, Lear, Dunbar, Latin Poems of Gower .-\scham, Burney, A.E. All (or no) profs . , ~ I · ~j~~ ........................................................................................ ..

lla-llb. SHAKESPEARE. English Drama from \Gorbuduc\ up to but not including \A Comedy of Errors\. Texts: \Shakespearean Contempor- aries,\ \Famous Non-Shakespearean Authors,\ Essays on the Non-Strat- fordian Heresy,\ Readings of Bacon, Johason, Worthlessly, Herbert. (Meets ten minutes each class) (A. C. Murphy) (Luden, Vicks and Smith Prof. of English) 12a-12b. AMERICAN LITERATURE: Bits and Snips. Texts: Selected F-ragments aad Clippings of American Literature, \A Biographical Study of American Authors,\ \Leaves of Grass\ (all 9 editions) \1601\ Stogett (sab. leave 1963) Assburn 14. PLAY PRODUCTION. Theory of the .flat. Course materials: scis· sors, paste, crayons, gold stars. 'Attention paid to the individual interests of those taking the course. All invited. Winsnake 15. INTERMEDIATE CoMPOSITION. Texts: Anthology of Rejected Idol Scribbling, Marking of English 10 papers. Hiccup 16. THE SPORTS STORY. 1st semester-Critical Analysis of major works by Merriwell, Garagiola, Berra, Brosman, Daley, Lardner, Thurston. 2nd semester-\The Nott Papers,\ \The Hiccup Papers\. Meets only by appointment, Grange Hall, Dorset Vermont. Hiccup 17. PoETRY. The Beats. 1st semester-Haiku, dactylic trimeter. 2nd semester- B'rer Weeks 18. THE NovEL. Literature as an Art Form. 1st semester: Dirty English Authors: de Sade, Spillane, Metalious, Harris, Burroughs, Don- levey, Earl of Rochester, Rablais, Mike Skinner, Orrie Hitt, Ophelia Twat, Mike Hunt, Rick Hertz, Guest Lecturer: Sportin Life BradBerry. 2nd semester, \Ulysses \Finnegan's ·wake,\ \Alexandria Quartet,\ \The Labyrinth,\ \Anna Kerenia,\ \War and Peace,\ \Joseph and his Broth- ers,\ \The Hardy Boys,\ \Koran \Upanishads.\ (All readings and pa- pers to be done in the original language). Meyer 19. THE DRAMA. Analysis of Representative World Dramas. lst semester: Nott plays, closet Drama. 2nd semester: Theater of the Absurd. Mountebanks credit offered. Winsnake 23a-b. 18TH CENTURY. Study of major works of Romeyn, Van Vran- ken, Van Rensselaer, Schuyler and Hiccup. Nullman ' f • , r • 'f \ •

'f. ' - ~ ·r J . I I ; < .~ '[ \\ • 24a-c. 19TH CENTURY. Study of Major works of Foster, i..udlow, Hal- leck, Toombs, Seward, Nott, Hiccup. Nullman 50a-b. AMERICAN CIVILIZATION. Texts: \Living in Modern Pakistan,\ \Principles of Fluid Writing,\ \Word Thought, and Heat Transfer.\ Ass burn GENERAL HUMANITIES Humanities I a-b. INSTANT CuLTURE. First Semester: A study of culture from the beginning of time to the present. The second semester serves to fill in the gaps. You-man-ities 14a, 14b: HisTORY oF GREECE AND RoME. A survey course taught by one professor and fifty dollars in texts. You-man-ities l5a, l5b. A translation of the material taught in You- man-ities 14a, 14h Art I Oa-b. ~NTRODUCTION To AESTHETIC CoNSTRUcTioN. Will intro- duce the student into the aesthetic aspects of block and erector set build- ing. Especially good for engineers. Art 22a, 22b. PRIMITIVE ART. A survey course from early ape drawing to the frescoes of the Neanderthals. Art 23a, 23b. MoDERN ART. Study of how the artist returned to the principles of painting established in Art 22a, 22b. Art 24a, 24b. ADVANCED PAINTING. A course designed to teach the latest techniques of paint throwing and smudging. Art 25a, 25b. THEORY AND APPRI·:CIATION oF ART. Analysis of paint blobs and authentication of humanoid works. Art 32. ANXIETY AND ART. Psychoanalytic study of the psychoses of various present-day artists. Humanities 56. SPECIAL Snmn:s OF ToPics IN ART AND MusiC. These include: advanced moa-ics, mobiles, speed painting, and how to lead a band. . , .

r : . , . . I· 1- ! ' MUSIC Contrary to the impression one might ha\le from attending Union, the College offers its students a wide range of oppoHunities for study and pat · ticipation in the field of music. Its deceptively undistinguished music faculty has quadrupled in the past year (to four), and has already con- vinced one student to go on in music. Faculty The music faculty consists of four men and a high school teacher, Professor E . Scott Tortoise. chairman; Assoc. Prof. U. Allen Sarcasm; Teaching Asst. Breau Penniless; Graduate Asst. Donald Peacock, and Choirmaster A. Dumbell. Prof. Tortoise, the only animated advertisement for Scotland in America, is a very busy man. He conducts the . \lbany Symphony (for- merly the Tri Cities Spuphony but now disowned by 2/3 of the three cities) and is so busy that he never arrives anywhere on time, never re- members students names, and doesn't even know as many people about whon1 to name-drop as Assoc. Prof. Sarcasm. Prof. Sarcasm, on the other hand, is a highly influential man whose long list of associates and acquaintances includes Ed, Tom., Fred, Harry, Lenny, Paul, Joe, and Dick. He is affectionately referred to as \He who maketh the sun to shine\ by his students, and has achieved great fame as the protagonist in William Duckley's \GQd at Yale.\ Besides the regular faculty, the school is fortunate in having Dr. E. T. de ~Iarsh perform at Sunday organ recitals. These recitals have the distinction of being second in popularity to the \Focus\ program. Courses tJnion offers a wide selection of courses, all of which are geared to the student 'dth no training (in tnusic or otherwise). The courses offered in l9t1~<~ are: H ar.111 onv: Fro111 Long Ago Ti I X ow I Oa, b (3 hours); Ear Trai11ing ~l, 2~, and ~j (one llour apiece); and Sing Along With U. 34 ( 12y 2 hours). 'J. ·: 1· \ . r • • c . • • I . • __________________ -.rr · -- ·-,

jl ·I I ' · · ' ·r ' . ..• , . . . ' 1 f t . • 2. Division of Social Studies HISTORY THE VENEREAL BEDE {Grendel U.) 701 B.A., 804 Ph.D. Chairman of De- partment of History, Professor of History (706- ), on sabbatical leave (707- ). EDWARD GIBBON (Oxford) 1757 B.A. Ph.D. C.O . D. Professor of the de- cline and fall of the balanced college (Adviser to Knot) (1757- ) OSWALD SPENGLER (WitteNberg University) 1830 B.A. 1'832, Ph.D., S.O.B., L.S.M . F.T. Professor of faculty morale (The Decline of the Best is his latest work) (1840- ) A. J. TOYNBEE (Cambridege) B.A., K.M.R . I.A., 1899, Professor of the cyclical theory of the development of civilizations (1920-5, 1930-5, 1940-5, 1950 - 5, 1960- ) HENRY FORD (Piltdown High School) 1885. Thucydides Pifnik Professor of Historical Bunk (1900- ) BILLY BRISTOL, Ph.D. (School of its Not What You Say But How you SpeU it). The History of · the Universe: lOa, b. Because o£ the all-encompassing nature of the subject matter, the course limits itself to a study of the development of printing and pub- lishing. Meant to be fondled, admired, displayed, and, most importantly, purchased, the steadily increasing JHilllber of sample works in the course are not seriously intended to be read for content. 8:30 lectures, when and if attended, in addition to a cultivated ability to fabricate convinc· ingly on tests are sufficient for passing the course. \ · ' . , . , - I 1 : ' I ! l \ .; ' ; I . • - - -

.i I , • '· ' ' · ~ . .. r r I 12a, b. The History of the United States (until 1923): The period since the above-mentioned year is omitted from the course material because of professorial opinion that everything after Coolidge is anti-climax. Important concepts such as the name of the dentist who replaced Grant's false teeth before the battle of Vicksburg and the status of U. S. relations with Yemen dtuing the McKinley administration are stressed. The first term is spent discussing the ramifications of Henry Ford's allegation that\History is hunk!\ 33b. The History of Union College- All of the first and four fifths of the second semester concentrates on the years before the Civil War. The remainder of the course is devoted to discovering an alumnus to be honored on the following year's Founder's Day. It is advisable to take the · course as soon as possible-as \Union worthies\ are diminishing rapidly. 74Y2. History of the Far East: First semester is spent learning how to wrap saris, -fill fortune cookies, and memorize Gunga Din. Second · semester is devoted to denouncing Chang Kai-shek, constructing transistor radios, and planning \All-Far- Eastern\ week celebrations. 24b. History of the development of the British Constitution: Unusual format in that an \unwritten constitution\ prescribes un- written exams and term papers; mystic communications with the pro- fessor (a registered medium) are substituted. Lectures every Tuesday and Thursday, Seances every other Saturday (when the moon is full). 0, a. History of Academic Tenme: Recent illustrations provide motivational impetus. Required material includes Crime and Punishment or the Saga of the Pilfered Pamphlets by the board of Trustees, and P1·ide and Prejudice, -or Sociology can be Fun by the same authors. Outside readings include disgarded student council resolutions, futile petitions, and an anthology of outraged letters- to-the-editor. RELIGION 21-22. APoCRAPHYL TRIVIA. A course designed to acquaint the stu- dent with vast quantities of relevant, significant, and important major concepts and main ideas, never before revealed to biblical scholars. 23-a-b. RELIGIONS oF THE UNITED STATEs. How to write well-organ- ized, clear, concise and brief essays. - .. · ·· 1·, ' . ~ . . ·r . . . . . · • • • ~

·r • ~ . . ·r ' - · • • • ~ - I SOCIOLOGY SHERWOOD HARVARD, AB, MA, Ph.D. (Harvard) Chairman Department of Sociology (Sabbatical leave 1962-63) JOSEPH MUNDANE, BA (Univ. of Miami), l\IA (Univ. of Hawaii), Ph.D. (Univ., of Tahiti) JAMES A. Loss, BA, 1\IA, Ph.D. (Booker T. \Va~hington School of Social Research) IRWIN DUREss, BA, MA (S.A.N.E.- School of American Nuclear Practices) Sociology 2la, b. INTRODUCTION To SocioLoGY. 1\Iajor areas of in- struction include contributions of Spanish Guitarists and 1.'\egro Jazzmen to American Society as well as the cultural impact of conception in the total socialization process. Research project into the formulation of hypotheses required of all students. Prof. 1\I undane Sociology 3l. THE FAMILY. General preparation tor marriage and family life with emphasis on toilet training of infants, sex education of pre-teens and preparation of the family budget. Resean:h project re- quired on Experiences and E\Xperiments in the Russell Sage Laboratory. NOTE: In times of international crisis, lectures may be held in Sydney, Australia. Prof. DHress Sociology !~2. Ct ' LTl ' RE Ali:D .PFRSo:'\.-\I.ITY. lmportanre of culture in the socialitation process. Structuring of personality through the \Big Teach . \ Main areas of discussion are: how the west was really won; in- fluence of the artist in social integration and and modal personality of the garbage collector. Case studies of the life history of the .\bba Dabba . Prof. l\1 undane --- · . !-=--------------------------

r f I ! Sociology 34. 1\IINORITI , :Es. Objective and non-biased study into minority relations by professor with personal experience in the field. Studies of· integration and segregation on all' levels of society; national, regional, local and classroom. Par t icular attention given to the functions of minority group membership in the areas of housing, voting, occupa- tion and education with special emphasis on college teaching. Prof. Loss Sociloogy 38. SocioLoGY <:>F ART. Interrelationship between Art, Artist and society. Further contributions of Spanish Guitarist and Negro Jazzman to All!erican Society . Social functions of T heatre of the Absurd and Hatian Voodo. The local community (Raths, San Remo, Scotia Art Theatre) serves as a laporaMry for field studies and other research projects. Prof. Mundane Sociology 55a, b. SENIOR .PRoJECT CouRsE. Non-directional course culminating in a undergraduate thesis required of all majors in the de- partment. Class meetings, are replaced by telephone consultation with the professor. 3. Division of Science BIOLOGY Prof. Mundane LEO:>IARD BERTRAND LARK, :B.A. 1876, (Northwest Mounted Pol.ice School of Forestry) Ph . D. 1895, (Souix. Indian College of Hunting and Fishing) KATsUMI NIU RAPPAPORT, :B.S . (Western Tennessee School of Semantics) M.S., 1951 (Yale College of Creative Writing) WILLIAM T. POOH, B.S . 1934 Union HE:'IiRY ~f. BUNSE:>~, A.B. (Williams) 1943 M.A. (Sonneborne University) 1950 FRANCIS LINCOLN LAMPREY B.S. 1949 (George War:burg University) Ph.D. 1958 (Martford University) WALTER AL A :>~ MESE:>~TERY ~B . S., B.S., B.S., B.S . , etcetera GERTRlJI>E BCRROWS SCHWEIKERT (Chairman of the Department of Biology) JOE (Animal Tamer and Embalmer) , f: - .. . • ~ · j \ r I I l ~ . r z=

.. . . • I ( f ; I . i ,, \ ~. I r 1a-a. GENERAL BioLOGY. This course is designed to acquaint the student with general and basic concepts of biology, such as the life cycles of extinct pre-historic ferns. 6a-b. HUMAN BioLOGY. A st11dy of Western African snails and North American fruit fiies. lla-d. CoMPARATIVE ANATOMY. A course designed to develop a student's insight and understanding in the field of vertebrate zoology with a minimum of memorizati<:m. Emphasis varies with each instructor: Winne-reproductive organs; Moz1ey-spirit and soul; Butzel-genes and chro- rnosomes only;Clark-a con.tentporary view of pre-historic evoltltio:n. 12. BoTANY. A course designed to acquaint the student with the characteristics of dangerous local Hora, such as the four leaved poison ivy. Prerequisites: wilderness survival, bee keeping, swimming, mountaill climbing, and soliciting for Union College. Ha. INVERTEBRATE ZooLoGY. A study of East African Snails. 15. HEREDITY. Students taking this cmme are not reqtlired to take any other courses in the Division of Science, as chromosomes and genes are the only things that really count, anyway. (Due to the lack of study assignments in Biology 15, credit hours will be reduced from three to one as of September 1963.) 17. CoNCEPTS AND THEORIEs. A con tinttation of Biology 15, this being the second most important course in the division. General bull slinging. (This course may be used to satisfy the language requirement.) 2 I. EMBRYOLOGY. This is strictly a textbook course, however, during examinations, .students must guess at the questions as well as at the answers. 22. GENERAL PHYSIOLOGY. Fundamental physiological problems and principles studied at the molecular cellular and metaphysical levels. Stu- dents are required lo hand in laboratory reports weekly, so that the in- structor may grade them by the students' Fifth Annual College Reunion. 23b. PsYCHOBIOLOGY. A course dealing with those biological phenom- ena which have particular influence on behavior, such as nutrition, hor- mones, and sheep's brains.

I . I j. I I I CHEMISTRY KlNG EGBERT BACON, B.S., 1786 (Paris Faculty of Alchemy) JUMPING GEORGE WEED, B.S., 1927, (Rochester School of Gymnastics) ROBUST WILLIAM SCHAEFFER (Diploma of Graduation-Sienna High School) HARDLY EVER SHIVVER, Union 1939, B.S., M.S. 1945 (Japan School · Of Brainwashing) CHARLES F. WICK, B.£. (~fount Union) anticipated june 1965 DRALPH DINNINY, B.S. in Physical Chemistry, (Sabbatical ye~ 1962-63) WILLIAM BUTLER MARTIN JR., A.B. 1948, :\I.A. 1949 (Clark), Ph.D (Sam's School of Sleuths) la. GENERAL CHEMISTRY. This course will demonstrate to students, the intellectual superiority of chemistry majors, as compared to liberal arts students. II. QUANTATIVE A.LCHDlY. A course designed to acquaint the stu- dent with the techniques envolved in carrying dessicators from the labora- tory to the weighing room, emptying burets into shoes from eye level, and turning the oven . on and turning the oven off. 12. ORGANIC CHEMISTRY. This course will demonstrate to students, the intellectual superiority of pre-meds as compared to chemistry majors. H. Qt'ANTITATI\'E CHEMISTRY. Two semesters of buret reading con- densed into one. 31. ADVANCED INORGANIC CHE:\HSTRY. This course will demonstrate to students, the intellectual superiority of chemistry majors as compared to pre-meds. (This course is not open to pre-medical students). ;~~. RADI<>CHE:\HSTRY. As this course has only been in the curriculum for tv.:o years, the format has not yet been definitely established. How- eYer, due to the danger of radiation, only married students with at least three liYing children are admitted. ~~i. PHYSICAL Ci-InnsTRY. The purpose of this course is to enable the students to explain the prindples of physical chemistry to the professor .

I . · ~ \' ' ' l .1 ' · • I . • ' t I l r 1\IATHEMA TICS 4. TECHNIQt:Es OF lNTEG'RATio::--~. An interdepartmental course open to ~ndergraduate CORE, NS:\I, or NAACP majors with attention to ir- rational cases. Prerequisite: Non-Violent Prison Sequence III. To he offered once weekly at ,V. C. Baker's residence. :16a, b. FA:\IOUS MATHEMATICIANS. Professor William Cady Rock will discourse oa his own conception of a famous mathematician, pri- marily himself. Prerequisite: Abnormal Psychology . .18. FniALE ToPOLOGY. An introduction to a variety of open and closed curved surfaces. Prerequisite: Physical Education I 1. To be offered every nine months. Classes held in Jackson's Gardens with Gus the Fox. 22 . NDIERICAL FUDGING . A practical integrating course for Physics and Chemistry majors. Prerequisite: any Pre - ~Ied lab course. To be offered as soon as Dr. HowaFd E. Gong's replacement learns how to invert a matress. 25:1. APPLIED PROBABILITY. Fundamental theory · of high stakes. To be held twice weekly on location at Saratoga and Psi U. Prerequisite: Advanced Touting Analysis and Computation. ez. TRANSCE:-.IDENTAL ALGEBRA. A study of way out topics and spatial cases with Mr. Ricki Ticki. Prerequisite: Psychoceramic Theology. Note: Math 31. CoMPLEX ScREw ANALYSIS will not be offered while Dr. Arthur E. Demise is on extended leave. PHYSICS 4a, b. Titbits For Toddlers. First Semester: Mechanics for swingers -the angle of repose, motion of rigid bodies, simple oscilatory motion, relationship of frequency and period, maintaining proper phase and fre- quency; Heat-friction and expansion, changes of state affected by pres- sure. Second Semester: Action at a distance, attraction of unlike charged bodies, work independent of path, charged bodies in motion, internal resistance for wet and dry cells. Weekly magic show by T. E. Why, Two Hours playtime, blocks, ball, guns, and errors provided. Professors Gobble, :Martian, Pillar, Slick and Why. 1 I a, b . Advanced symbology, Intermediate Fudging. An elementary treatment of text correction and apprahal. Professors A. T. Gobble, D. Kook-Boooker, and Sinnay Emis Pillar. - _ J ,_ ______________________ IIillii--------· --- ·-•. -. - .. -_ ... _____ _

I , I ! i ! i ( ' ' • - - - -- - - - ~ -- · - - -~ - - - ~~~ 21. An introduction to cooking without the book or gas. Gauss, Faraday, Kirchoff and others are taken internally. Pre-requisites: Snow Removal 17, Flak Survival 18. (Relative Snow Factor: 36 pi inches). Professor Whinny Shontz 22. Optics. Interference, diffraction, and x-ray vision. Advanced vernier reading and fringe counting. Lab work done in unlit laboratory -Know thy neighbor. Prof . C. D. Spaning asks the questions. 31. Advanced ;\{echanics. Things that \shouldn't \happen do. Al- gebra is practiced, is practiced, is practiced. Newton's the he r o here. Prof. R. A . Henchman (B.S. of A.) 33. Atomic Physics for Seniors. That equation is studied. Sneaky factoring is exploited. Lab: Sfleaky, complicated classical experiments in modern physics are exp l oited Jor maximum snow factor to impress visit - ing sub - frosh. The fudge is legitimized. Prof. C. D. Swartz. 56. Research. The student :ga i ns practice in overestimating his abil- ity. He learns that equipment is vindictive. The Prof. smiles benignly. The student breaks an expensive instrument. The student learns that the literature is difficult and that he knows no physics. The Prof. smiles benignly. 4. Division of Engineering Mechanical Engineering GARDEN KETCHUP, Chmn., To. Ma. To., (Heinz Institute of Technology), 1957 WILD BILL DRAWnY , B.S. , (R.P.l.), 1956-1952, President, Tinker Toys, Inc. RANDOM EINSTEIN, M . M.E . , (P.S. 17), Ph.Z . (Bok Vocational) . HERREN HIGHEM, L.L.D., (Kitwie, Northern Rhodesia) DR. PAN, Ph.D., (School of Mysticism) J<>SJ·:PH MODREY, WHO?, (Brooklyn Boys' Club) Civil Engineering H. G. HARLOT, Chmn., (Green Street Academy), 1943 ANTHONY TOADLY , RS. in C.E . , (Okefenokee University), 1897 CHARLEs FE MALE, Ph, (Oklahoma School of Agriculture and Mines) LINTON \soAPY\ MILUAMS, (Halls of Ivory) v. VAN ANKEN DEs Gooo(~lJY, B.S., M.Mgt.E., Ph.Mgt.E., (J. Peter Pryon Junior College)

I : ~ .· f. I · t I \ . l EI. ENGINEERING LEcrURE: \Siesta in the Afternoon\ Prerequisite: Napping (Entire department) lOa-lOb. GRAPHI.cs: Principles of Coloring and Fingerpainting, smudging, silk screen processes; theory of papercutting (Williams and Goodguy) £30. STRENGTH OF MATERIALS: Stresses and strains of students · be- yond proportional limit; men:'s, women's, ttnd isomeric bars. Hooke's Law; Castigliano~s Theorem, Vernon Law, shafts. (Dr. Pan) E34. FLUID MEcHANics: Principles of ideal fluids: rye, scotch, bour- bon. Second Semester: wood alcohol, turpentine, Freon. Potential and actual flow in closed circuits. (Drawby) £42. ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT: \How to succeed without really trying.\ No papers, no tests, no finals; course changes location daily. Principles of apple farming. (Goodguy) CE31. RoUTE LocATION: Route selection to Vassar, Skidmore, Dia- mante's, Corner Tavern, Green Street. Two feld trips weekly. (Harlot) C£43. SANITARY ENGINEERING: Quantity, quality, source, storage, distribution. Lavoratory: two times a day. (Toadly and Fe Male) M£20. ELEMENTARY STRUCTURAL DESIGN: Emphasis on fingers, arms, neck, legs, toes. (Einstein) ME21. ADVANCED STRlJCTURAL DEsiGN: Emphasis on chest, waist, hips, etc. Prerequisite: note from wife or girl friend. (Highem) M£22. MATERIAL AND PRocEssEs: Cooking I, egg packaging aRd scrambling, fudging, buttering, aiul milking. (EiRstein) ME30a-b. THERMODYNAMICS_ AND HEAT TRANSFER: Excitation and seduction principles. Boundary layer analysis, radiation, conduction, con- vestion methods. Formulas galore. Not open to students without slide rules. (Ketchup) ~ ME42. EXPERIMENTAL ENGINEERING: \Fun and Games Lab\. Debug- ging techniques, relaxation experiments, debating theory, foot races, motors, Monopoly theory. Meets between 1:00 and 3:00 in the morning; ;:j 6 days per week. (Drawby, Ketchup, Highem) I I i i .. . .. -. Q~·! ME45. ADVANCED STREss ANALYsEs: General modes of failure. Curved flexural members. Lame's solution. Contact and localized stresses. Pre- requisite: Ph.D. in ME. (Dr. Pan)

--,.- -- I ' · I , . . - - - --- - ------'- - - -- -- - -· - - · - - - -··\~ ·- · ··· ADMISSION The Admissions Committee is occasionally concerned with the ability of the applicants to adhere to the academic standards of the college. More important, however, is the candidate's ability· to excel i11 Union's wide range of athletic and extracurricular activities, such as imbibing and curling. Applications should be received by at least the week .before the opening of school, but preferably by March 1 of the applicant's last year in high, prep, or reform school. The college recognizes four groups of major factors, in order of prior- ity, concerning the candidate's record: 1. Height, weight, and bicep measurement. 2 . Number of varsity letters earned, number of arrests, and number of relatives on the Board of Trustees. 3. Recommendation of coach, psychiatrist, or wealthy father. 4. Results of Scholastic Aptitude, I.Q., and Wassermann tests. Requirements for Admission Usually, with the exceptions of athletes and the sons of alumni, pro- spective applicants should have 16 secondary school credits. The break- down df these credits should be as follows: 2 units-Physical Education. Credit is giVen m basket weaving for the benefit of non-athletic students. 2 units-Hygiene and home economics. This should include at least one semester of bathroom training. 3 units-Gin. I unit-Vermouth. I I ·f: I 1 •• ' . ·. , i The remaining eight units should represent credit in English, mathe- • ma tics, history , and foreign language. lJ nion College feels strongly the desirability of personal interviews with the applicants for admission . These interviews, conducted by Dr. Milfred l\letz, are held in the Alumni Gymnasium; students will be prop- erly outfitted for the interview free of charge, although they are requested to bring their own sneakers.

1 •• • • Fees All applications must be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee, the size of which will aid indetermining the prospective student's first-term index. Accepted candidates are given a date by which they must reserve a place in the dass by making a deposit, the size o[ which will be determined by the type of car that their fathers drive; This de- posit will be held by the college until the student's · expulsion, death, or, graduation. One of the methods by which the Admissions Committee selects the incoming class is by geographical distribution. Preference is given to students residing within a 30-mile radius of the college, although some consideration will be given to students from other states and, occasionally, from New York City. Thanks to the sparkling, progressive wisdom and judgment of the Trustees, who are not ones to let Moss grow under their feet, · the Ad- missions Committee has adopted the radical, precedent-shattering policy of drafting one non-white student per year. This policy, along with the one of geographical distribution, creates great diversification among the incoming classes, thereby enriching the moral and intellectual atmosphere of the college . Early Decision If there are· any students who would make Union their first choice, they are urged to apply for early admittance by November of their senior years. In order to make sure that such applicants do not become disillu- sioned or attempt to withdraw before they know what they are getting into, the college requires that the regular admissions deposit be made by January. It is unfortunate that these exceptional, gifted students can not be guaranteed necessary financial aid at the time of their admittance, but they will certainly be considered as soon as a suitable football, basket - ball, baseball, track, swimming, tennis, and soccer team have been pro· cured.

- -· - -- - - ---- - -- - ---- - ------ - ---- ---- ------------ D & J AUTO SERVICE 1372 Union St. BRAKES - TUNE-UP WHEEL ALIGNMENT & BALANCE Dl 6-9644 for the finest in custom clotlnng and :furnishlngs 141 E. 44tL St. • New YoElt 17, N.Y. HEL - P NEEDED Term Papers, Theses Typed LOW RATES New Resume Service Proven to Bring Top Offers . BILL'S TYPING And MIMEO. SERVICE 350 12th St. Dl 6-2866 RECORDS OF COMEDY - JAZZ - CLASSICAL - FOLK · AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS Tapes and Diamond Needles Professional Quality and Wholesale Prices APEX MUSIC KORN . ER . State St. at Corner of Broadway Phone FR 7-H 1'2 ~ffffvffvvvvfffffffYfffvffffffvYYfff~vfftfYWfv .. D . EWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room · Fine Food and Legal Beverages . 118- 120 JAY STREET • .a. .a. 4 4 A _ , 4 4 4 4 A A A 4 4 4 4 ' A _ 4 A ' 4 4 A • ' 4 4 4 4 A . A A A A. • ' 4: 4 4 • Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT . Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Er i . e Blvd. Large parties accomodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 · ~ · --~~~~~~~--~~~~--~~-~-~~-~~-~~~~ l (I l . J I .1 , . • •

l r T ·r I (I , . • FRANK FERRARO Wholesale and Retail Fr.uits and Produee --- Fresh Daily - Twice Daily on Campus 1231 CRANE STREET Schenectady. N. Y. Dl 6-1763 . ~ r z atr::ci'W: r ~ EVER SUFFER FROM · \SUNDAY SLUMP\? Happens to the best of us. Nothing much to see ... or do. 'Course there's always studying, but . . . to cure th i s \Sunday Slump,\ call the folks at home. They'll have lots of bright things to tell you. Cheer you up in no time. Just hearing your voice will make them feel good, too. Rates are lower , remember, every evening after 6:00 and all day Sunday . Extra low for many calls within New York State after 9 : 00 p.m. ~New York Telephone Midtown , Barber Shop 51 5 UNION STREET (Next to UniQn Inn) Specializing in Restyling . of Hairdos Each head is given personal care STOWE'S FAMOUS S i KI DO : RM + + + $6.25 Daily (Incl. Breakfast & Dinner) SPECIAL MID·WEEK BUDGET PLANS FOLDER-Write or Phone STOWE, VERMONT • ~Lpine 3-7223 DIAMANTE'S • Enjoy our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable · Dining Room • OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOTT ST. OPEN DAILY 1 0 TO 3 A . M. - SUNDAYS 5 P .M.-3 A.M.

- - - - - -- - -- -~- ----- -.:.~-...:..--.- - . ., __ _. ,_ ~~ ....... .-...,.r'l~---·---_..--- ~.- - Tim~; C:::~nl~r ]t;w~l~.-s \Your Jeweler Away From Home\ BUY WITH CONFIDENCE LUIGI'S RESTAURANT Specializing in Italian-American food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady 01 6-9 - 744 _ 10% · . Discount to Union Men Enjoy Our Sizzling Steaks and Chops NEW SHIPMENT LEVIS white demin slim fits 399 A 3 34 State Street We cash your checks gladly Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing In Italian • American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar Free Parking PIZZA 016-9554 1115 Barrett St. POLISHED COlTONS IVY SLACKS CAMPUS OUTER WEAR ADLER SOCKS ~ic:hat;l Roth's Upper Union Street - Presents Gene Rogers Jazz Trio Upstairs DANCING DOWNSTAIRS - SATURDAY Live Maine Lobster s2.95 ll_ • ' - · - - . l , j . \ . , , f ' - ~ ,. • f. I J ·r . I~ J · l · I . · - . 4

<I' , . . . I J ., ~ · ~ \ • t,) C\ . . ,, If ' I ~ l j ; ~J rl 'J ( 1 I • · \\ 1 ' ! I T : fi : ELD'S LIQ ~ UOR SJO · RE 38 Erie Blvd. (Across from Train Station) ----------- Save On Our Own Olde Village Private Label Spirits ----------- We Deliver Free FR 4•6846 ONE DAY SERVICE CAMPUS CLEANERS All Work Done on Premises PICKUP AND DELIVERY 527 Nott St., Schenectady, N. Y. Opp. Union College Phone EX 3-5472 iti. -~-f. Best Service in Town SCHUHL ESSO SERVICE 715 Nott St. Come in ~nd Fill Up with the BEST GAS IN TOWN ~ - -~ · UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT U_NION INN-517 Union St. RICCITELLO'S Erie Boulevard at Jay Street -)~­ Seafoods-Roast Beef-Steaks .. Chops SERVING SCHENECTADY FOR 40 YEARS For three · Generations • ,, • Those Who Know ••. Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B. ''lay Street Jewelers\ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY: ~ ~ • .. -. .'~ ~ ' . '

.'/ O.LFACTO ; RY · SENSATIONS ! : : : Page : 3 Voi. 92 __,..No. 19 Rickover I . d .. d l n :• .tvt · utt · to Discuss and Society By Donald Hastings Vice Admiral H. G. Rickover, often referred to as \the !'father ofthe nuclear navy,\ will deliver the 1963 Steinmetz ' M~morial Pr0gram Address on Friday, March 22, at 8:00 , P.M. in Union College Memoria'! Chapel. The address, which · is the 34th in the series; wUJ he(~---- - - --- - - -- - ---- - · entitled, \The In?ividual in a Free · . ' · ,, . , . . _, .....• . _ . .. . . . Society,\ ' and WI-ll be free to the . . . . ; . . . . - . ; . ; - . general public~ .v These addtE)sse~ are given in : memo1 ; y of Dr, Cha < rle~ P 7 • · stein- _ metz, world famous scientist and : humanitarian; . Sidrint-etz, who for number - of yea r:~ . \:as a Profes - sor · of :Electri'c a L Engine e ring at Union College, was u pione e r in marty fields of elcctrieal research . . The lectures arc pre:ientcd annu- · ~~'ally by the Steinmetz Memorial ' Foundation and is sponsored b} ' the Schenectady Section of thr . LE.E.E. . Cut Rules i ' Altered Founded at Union Colle~~ in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., · fRIDAY, MARCH l5 . , 1963 . . . . . . ST - UDY ABR · OA . D ·_Page 3 · PRICE 15 . CENTS Election Sussman and Fennelly Awarded Procedure WoOdrow Wilson FellowShips Discussed

2 Publishe~ Fr-Idays during the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Scheneotady, N. Y. Na- tional Advertising Represent~>tive: National Advertising Service, Inc .. College Publishers Representative. 420 Madison Ave .. N. Y. C. Editorial Office, Old Gym, Union College, Publication Office. Sche- nectady Printing Company, 602 Broadway. Entered In the Sche· nectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 16c a copy; $3 a year delivered anywhere In the United States. SJ.::SIOR BOARD P.\\'lll BERJ•:X~O:s' '6L .................. DI 6-9895.. . .. Euitor in Chief lVE:-.:S LEF'LOHE '64 ...................... FR 2\~358'0. . ........... Business Manager . ~1~10='1 SOBO '64 .............................. DI 6-984'8 ................................. Managing Editor !tOBE!tT KHA:IIEH '6::. ...................................................................... - :-;,.\'\ Editor . !U<'II.\HD !~H-DOP.H 'Gil .. ........... ... .. ..... ........ . . . Sports Editor I'Tl'A!t'l' :llllHHr~ '65 .............................. .......... .. ........ Feature Editor \''!l_.I,L\:11 T. WI:-\:-!rJ , 34 .................................................................................. Advisor JUNIOR BOARD Twice during the past year considerable controversy has developed regarding the granting of tenure to faculty members. Two professors have been refused tenure, re- sulting in outcries of indignation by their supporters and countercries of those supporting the decisions. Charges and countercharges have been made by all sides with the resultant blurring of the general issue of tenure policy. . Neither of the cases has been an ideal one. There have been no clear-cut issues that can persuade either side that its position is completely correct. Various speculations have been made regarding the motivation of different individuals in the disputes. No matter how reasonable these specula- tions may seem to some individuals, they must remain only opinions that cannot be proven by any readily obtainable facts. The only beneficial action for the students, faculty, administration, and trustees is to clarify current tenure practices so that similar disputes are minimized in the future. Current tenure procedure generally follows the guide- lines recommended by the American Association of Uni- versity Professors. A candidate for tenure must be ap- proved by the senior professors in his division, then by a committee on standing composed of both faculty and ad- ministration, and finally by the Board of Tr1;1stees. The trustees have the ultimate voice in tenure decisions. As legal guardians of the college, this decision is rightfully theirs, and no one can reasonably argue that this final re- sponsibility should be placed elsewhere. Although they are under no legal obligation to take into account the opinions of any other parties in granting tenure, the trustees do have what may be termed a moral obligation to consider deeply the opinion of administration, faculty, and students when making decisions. A college is not solely a business in which decisions may be reached by the board of directors primarily in response to a certain financial situation. The fact that a college is foremost an educational institution means that such seemingly intangi- ble factors as faculty, student, and administration morale must be considered. A facu1ty member cannot be judged as a piece of merchandise with a definite price tag. No matter how competent and intelligent a group of trustees may be, the fact that they are absent from the college campus for the majority of time makes it imperative for them to rely on campus opinion to a large extent in malting their de- cision. In a letter to the Student Council in Concordiensis two weeks ago, President Davidson wrote, \the trustees be- lieve that it is better to err in refusing tenure than to com- mit the college to what might prove an unsatisfactory ap- pointment.\ However, Union College is in such a position that lack of action may be almost as harmful as precipi- tous action. With the current struggle to acquire high- caliber faculty, the college cannot afford to delay in hiring competent faculty members permanently. Experience may indicate that failure to take a slight risk will lead to more serious dangers. The risk that was avoided by not grant- ing tenure to two professors this year may be countered by the definite possibility that two departments of the col- lege will decline in caliber. The students, faculty, administration, and trustees a:re all working for what they regard as their own. road to the salvation of Union College. It would be more beneficial for the college for each group to consider the viewpoints of the others more carefully. At its last meeting, the Stu- dent Council, speaking for the Student Body as a whole, endorsed a petition that 250 students had signed. They made their position known on the desirability of retaining Prof. Danese in the JY.{athematics Department. Time will indicate whether this and other views of the students on college issues will be accepted as one of a number of im- portant viewpoints or whether the various groups making up the college will continue operating in a vacuum, ignor- ing each other's positions. Letters to the Editor To the. Editor of Concordiensis:libelieve however, that the pros- Be it moved: ~ypects are rather promising since That the following rules gov- tthe few houses that had .previ- ern the actions taken by fra- ously maintained \hard line\ ternities in dealing with their pledge policies have indicated ;pledges: that they have dropped al'l abus- 1) No pledge may be subjected Uve practices. Certai-nly, time will to any condition which might r'be the only judge of that. In any reasonably result ·in mental orL event, a step has been made in physical injury. , .the right direction and I hope ~) Each pledge must ·be pro~( and believe it will be a major nded with a minimum of -six! 'step. !lours free time per day, ex-!li l<'inaHy, I could never say that dusive of time spent in sched-~~~1 am entirely proud of the be- uled classes, whue classes are~lhavior of some . of the members in sess10n. 't- of the I.F.C. during the discus, 0) No pledge should be requir-J sian on this motion. The pas- ed t;o per1orm an act wnic11 may{ swnate displays of that few were rause property damage• Ol' m~ not worthy ot their positions. lt any way cause ill 1eenn,gs to be!: is unfortunate that most contro- d!l'ecteu towards Unwn College~ verswnal issues can produce so or ns stuoeut body. r much Irratwnality on the palt A committee will be established,l of so many people. The bizzare consistmg o1 s1x house presidents,~ behavior of those few members to mvest1gute any InfractiOns 01~ came as the result of contused these l'Ules. 1t wul be the respon-' 10eals and 1deas and the inabinty Slblllty ol th1s committee to re-' to see other !iJOints of view. .tt port to the Llt'.C. any in1ractionsi was not merely a moral question 01 the rulel:l, and to make recom-' tor some; 1t was also the old ques- memtatlOns Ior fines not to ex-~ t10n of \states' rights\ which has ceed ~.<::t>U, for each ofiehse. always plagued bodies composed i'he above motiOn concerning' .of sovereign entities. At last, the p1·evention of abusive prac- reconciliation was reached but tices cturmg pledge tram:mg was not until members on each side passed by the -Interfraternity of the Issue had made themselves Gouncil meeting of February ~~, look sufiiciently foolish. Even W6;$. It is my 1mpress1on that tne reporter who had covered the tne front page coverage of this meeting had lost all contact with meetmg m Concor<ilensis was objectivity in h1s article by stress- som€wnat misleadmg • and that ing the wrong things, leaving out tne letters to the .h:ditor revealed important facts, and fabricating a :Oasic misunderstanding of the new ones. issues and wnat might reasonably It is regrettable that the bur- be expected from this motion. Jesque nature of this whole in- <.;onsequently, I will attempt to c1ctent has tainted the positive clanfy this matter since it has aspects of the motion that has such a profound inf1uence on the come out of it. It is my hope nature of futul'e pledge-fratern• that this experience will serve lLY relatiOnships. · the one purpose of opening the :first, the present motion dif- eyes of those who let passion fe1:s only shgntly from the o1·ig- serve them when reason should ina! except m one respect. There be their guide. is now provision for six hours: Kenneth A. Payment '63 free time per day during the~ President of the ' academic year only. In the orig·-~ Interfraternity Council inal version, this was not restrict-! ed to the academic year alone.: '!'his is indeed regretable, but I fo the Editor of Concordiensis: might call attention to the broad It does not require historical deHnition of the first p1·ovision msight to recognize that the cur- which might act as a substitute. rent criticisms being directed Any instance in which a fratern- against our fraternity structure ity's responsibility has caused a are but recent phenomena. As a p.edge mental or phy.sical harrr student originally in the class of can l'esult in a severe penalty im- 1961, I can well remember a more posed on that fraterruty. Tlus noble fraternity era; a time when would include, of eourse, any the heights of prestige which had harm done to a pledge as a re- been achieved notably by the re- sult of an imposed lack of sleep. turning Korean War veterans Enforcement of the rules un- were still being enjoyed. de1· the present version is little Presently there can be little changed from the original. An argument against the statement amendment to the original struck that this once revered position of out the wo1·ds \to enforce and in- recent times has since been at- vestigate\ and has substituted \to tacked, challenged and dismem- investigate\ alone. This is a bered. A careful analysis of the logical change since no committee reasons underlying this develop- of the I.F.C. has the right to en- ment reveals that the fraterni- fol'Ce legislation. The entire ties are not solely vested with I.F.C. is the only body that con- blame. Since the advent of Sput- stitutionally has the right to en- nik, unfortunate emphasis has force its legislation. The method been put upon academic achieve- by which this new committee will ment, to be followed by major investigate infraction;:;, however, contributions to freedom andlor is not clearly defined under the oul' \free enterprise\ system; un- present motion, but it would seem fortunate because this emphasis highly impractical and rather has been made to the complete juvenile for it to \polic€\ the sev- exclusion of those vital aspects of enteen fraternities. Few of us individual personality, the proper attend Union ·College to serve as development of which must needs secret police, and such s~rvice preclude any true successes in wol!ld be of questionable value in any endeavor. A boy must be- preventing abuses in the first come a man before he may be- place. The fact is, then, that this come anything else. The invalu- is \after the fact\ legislation. able lessons to be learned from This was the intention of the the college of life, which alone P1edge Policy Committee from can achieve this requisite condi- the very beginning. The method tion, are being woefully ignored of investivation was left flexible by policy-and opinion-forming in their original motion to allow bodies among our students and the investigating committee to administrators alike. witness abuses on the spot, if such Those professors who once abuses were reported at the time spoke with fraternity members, they were occurring. The policy dined and drank with them, are committee also believed howevar, now boarding the bandwagon of that this legislation would be accusation. The total system has preventative in one sense, since been placed under constant, mer- any fraternity that pe1·sisted in ciless barrages of only partially an irresponsible and immature justified abuse. pledge policy would certainly feel This criticism began in earn- the burden of risk that it would est, growing out of proportion to be taking. the alleged offenses, only after As I am unable to claim the the various attempts to improve role of prophet, it would be diffi- social facilities and opportuni- cult to predict exactly what ef- ties for the independents failed feet this legislation will have. I (Continued on Page 4) ------~------------------ Ca1npus Briefs Film Series Featured in the Film Series tonight at 7:00 and 9 :00 P.M. are \Tl\e Roof\ and \Disorder.\ MaeLeish's '\J.B.\ At 8:30 tonight the Women's Staff A;:;sociation will present \J .B.\ by Archibald MacLeish in Hanna H~ll. Tickets are 2 dollars. l:l Frosh Coffee Hour ~All :freshmen a1•e invited to a ·Coffee Hour ·sponsored by the Physics and History Departments in West College Library, 9:30- 11 :30 A.M. Sunday. Vesper Service . 'l'he Co~munity Ve-sper Service, Memorial Chapel, 7:30 P.M. Sun- day, will feature Rabbi Everett Gendlel' of the Princeton; N. J., Jewish Center. Navy Officer Program Opportunities for freshmen, so- phomores, and juniors in the Navy's Reserve Officer Candidate program will be explained to in- terested students on Monday, from noon till 4:30 P.M. in Hale House Lounge. · Concert Series Verdi Requiem will be featur- ed at the College Museum Con- cert Series, 8:30 P.M., Tuesday, March 19, in Memorial Chapel.- Glee Club Concert On Friday, Mar9h 22; the Cor- nell University Glee Club Con- cert will- be helcJ.. at Linton :ijigh School at.8:30 P.M. Tickets ate two dollars and are available at Roberts Piano Company and the Van Curler Music Store. F~iday, Marc;h 15, 1 963 Friday, Ma• · Hyman Rickover: AMediocreEducation 1 ' By Richard .Sifton Vice Admiral Hyman G. Rick- over will speak at Union on March 22. Part of his background' is well-known to many people: he was responsible for the creation of the first nuclear powered sub- marine, the U.S.S. Nautilus. Born in Russia in 1900, Rick• over and hi:; parents immigrated to this country and settled in Chi- cago, where he attended high school. He was appointed to An• napolis, left there in 1922, and returned in 1927 to do postcgrad- uate work in electrical engmeer- ing. He received his M.S. degree at Columbia University in 1929 and participated in submarine duty and training for the ne:xit three and one half years. Dur- ing World War II, he headed the Electrical Section of the Navy Department and received the Leg- ion of Merit for his effectiveness in obtaining and supplying elec- trical power and equipment. Navy Engineer In June, 1946, he accepted an assignment at Uak Hidge ~o \\~orK on \ihe Bomb\ until JJec.:t;mijer. He then toured atomic msLat.U· t10lll:l and came upon tne 1uea or a nuclear submarme. by tl1e e11d of UJ4·1, lollowmg no sman amount of dlifiCUity, he had won over Admiral .Nimuz to the 1dea and was assigned to the A.C:C as head of the Naval Reactor~ Hranch while remammg the .head ot the Nuclear Power Dtvis10n, tnereby enabled to supervise t.he work of both organizatiOns. ~ick­ ·over and his staff prepared de- signs for the hull and the AEC worked with Westinghouse in constructing the reactor. The reactor was built, untested. to the specntcatlons of the submarine, an unorthodox procedure wl\ich J:JHoru;med the amount of construc- tiOn t.une by years. .Rickov-er w.as promoted uom <.:aptain to Bea1· .ttdnural m J,uly, 1953; Robext .A.n- oerson, Secretary of thC? Navy, a.ppomted new Navy ~election Boards m order to hav~ the pro- m(:)tlOn awarded. As well as being an excellent naval engine.~r and a Vice Ad- miral; R1ckover is also very in- terested in the state of education in this country. Many of his views, which are rather controver- sial, were stated in a speech given at the annual meetmg 01 the Southern Governor's Conference last October. He has aiso sound, ed off on this topic in many other .places, much to the horror of Har- old Taylor and Paul Goodman. R.iekover £eel11 that at present the educational 'System is too crow4w ed with unqualified teachers and administrators and. that the pro- duct is not worth the expenditure, The basic fault underlying aU of 1 , the inadequacies, however,. is that there is no national scholastic standa1·d. He feels that Ameri- can high school and even coilege diplomas are, generaHy, no· indi- cation of academic achievement and that the methods of evalu- ating achievement by prospective employers and admissions com- mittees are time-consuming and difficult. He deplores \mediuc1·e 1ife-adjustment training,\ com,- piete with swimming pools, model kitchens, and \educational pal- aces\ and feels that good students are held back by such training. Standar:ds Comfittee His s<Ylution is a National Stanoarns Committee which would Have two purposes. The first pu.z·- . pose woua.i oe· to observe and t' ,, ocmtm1ze the educational sys-tem am! mak.e penod1cal reports of 1Ls observatiOns. The second task 1.\'ulud ne to establish a national 1 scnotastJc standard on the basis ~ o.L lLs lmdmgs and 1ts studies of tne Contmental school systems, ~~~~u!~~~~:~r .. ~7~:al}iM a~~!d~d :f. · \ Amold Mi1 rison tal>e< erland. B( ETH in Zu liberal arts muJt!p1e-chmce tests,\ would be used to determme achievement The engir levels, but the results of these eign sudy, tests, aamuJ.istered perhaps in the • '• Zurich 1-'ro d t ff t ond year· .l!.:ngus11 fas.tuon, woul no a ec c·'ollege, Al a swct.ent's grade or class level. The exammatwns would not be on the cam comp-qlsory but, if taken, would f! est opport be a na t10naliy uniform indica- · proved pre twn of achievement. 'i'he Com- eral arts-e mittee would in ·no way interfere study abro wJ.:th the practtces and policies of Last ye~ the school system; any sugges- 't • by Profes:: twns or· recommendations would .lVlechanica be dispensed as a new form of ment and federal aid when asked for. One .as Arny ll begms ·to wonder exactly howl>~!• ..... \'··•·v\ Morri th1s Committee would be able to ·1, to study a conect the p1·esently existi.i:tg i · stitute of taulrs in the school system which . Switzerlar Rickov~r· 11as so elaborately an- ! three at a!yzed and discussed. ' ' - Terry Paa .RH:kover is known and admired As far fo1· his devotion to his work. He this progi was able to create the Nautilus tion and in .an amazmg1y small amount of 1 before the tune by thoroughly exhausting which inte work, and he extends the same is stresse capac1ty for work into all of his tries to a~ many jobs and projects. His talk ,_ • .1 all foreig-r should be an interesting one. hopes tha and study tionali ties appreciati • '· engineel'ir brought il A Uni1 study unc \ UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT II .1 program· the Divis the Depa1 primarily UNION INN-51 7 Union St. (' , rangemen • up to at study abx The :E hochschul in Germa proximat· percent c ~---------------------------~------------------ , Swiss • sity studE of matur cipline t RICCITELLO'S Erie Boulevard at Jgy Street -}~- complex: of the s~ l \\ on then dent rna Union. I <II ' ' -~ ~~~t~d~~; ·dent. If, tell us, c that he l Seafoods-Roast Beef-Steaks-Chops 4 parison 1 111 can syst in the la in triplir the stud SERVING SCHENECTADY FOR 40 YEARS For three Generations ..... Those Who Know. Have been recommending - IURSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Maurice B. Graubart & Snns u Jay Street Jewelers\ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY l, 1\ ~. •• times as Aspitf at an a\ STOWE~ f.! I ~ $6.25 c t- ~ SPEC l FC L-oV:9WE,

5, 1963 r of Har- esent the crowd~ and th~ pto- all of r,. is that Amerl- n coilege no· ihdi- evaiu- com- ·and cOm- model pa:l- students Friday, Marc;h l5, 1963 Year View In of Zurich: the ETH Chern Capers: The Big Stink ·By J. C. Clemens 3 IFC ••. l Bridge Results .(Continued from Page 1) UnioH College ·bridge teams system ·of voting for its repre- earned three out of the four :thst sentatives. Following this report,, place finishes in the duplicate he proceeded to volunteer the ser- event. Due to the large turnout, vices of the I.F.C.'s sophomore two sections were established. In representatives fGr a new system W of student council elections. Un- the fi,rst section the N-S inners 'Shortly after the departure of By Wednesday 1norning, the der this system, the I.F;C. sopho- were the Union team of William the . girls last Sunday, anyone problem had beceme even more mores from one house would con- Grazell-Steve Diamend who were wadmg around the campus be- baffling. None of the radiators duct student council elections in the overall winners of the entire came immediately aware of a very seemed to he smelling any differ- another house, thereby eliminat- tournament. Their recol~d score of curious odor-. This peculiar smell ent than usual. It was time for ing a 1>ossible situation where l8l points was more than 15 no~ ~.mly pervaded the age-old, the mystics to come up with their one or two brothers would take points higher than their nearest · bu!ldmgs but could be plainly theory. It was the curse of an all ballots in the house and pro- rivals. Finishing first in the E-W . sensed as ()ne walked along the angry God! It was retribution for ceed to vote for the rest of the direction was a University of Ro- r'\j,:Jf::nr!)(:':t[\:;'li)i@!iM:l . paths ?f the campus, gam belling. the weekend. Someone hadn't paid brothers~ chester team. frem smkho1e to sinkhole. It first their motel bill! But the mystics Payment announced that the In section two first place hon- • came a:bout as a revolution in the were dismissed as lunatics. pledge ·presidents had met the ors in the N-S direction fell to sensibi!lities. On the previous Then the truth became fright- preceding Wednesday, but had . the L'nien team of Lenny Blumin- week, one's mind eningly clear. The world of sci- not had enough presidents pres- . Andy Fogelson. The E-W winner wo~;~ld be occupied ence is the one province that ent for a quorum. This week, of the second sec'tion was the team with the weighty ei'n man hesitates to blame fer however, they met again and of 31ike Bluestein-Cary Bader. problem of plod- . his tmubles. Betrayed again ... elected their officers, Paul This team also fi.nished second in ding along ging. euchre<! ... foiled .. , coises!! Woodell of D.U. as President and the ·O\\eral·l standings. er:ly to avoid a ·It was those Chemistry peopl'e, Marc Hurlbut of Chi Psi as Sec- watery grave. that's all. The Chern Lab had in- retary. In all forty-eight teams partici- . Tllis was all. No vented a new smell As there are no home sports pated, a new attendance record other concern but contests during Parents Weekend,; for the three year old event. :that of self-preservation eccupied Science Stinks Payment said that an I.F.C.-Fac- the mind in those naive days. This And so the .truth is out. Once ulty Softball game had been pro- ! th · t 11 · d d ld b 1 k d · Applications for all types of wee,, e senses we1·e VIr ua Y again in its long history of olfac- pose an · wou e 00 e mto. financial aid in 1963-64 will be ·assaulted with new worries. tory deligh. ts, the Chemisti·y Lab He also mentioned that a number f 11 E • 11 aYailable beg i n n i n g Monday, On Sunday evening, the cam- has succeeded in dominating the 0 sma astern mens co eges March 18 at the Office of Student National would pur·- and t · ,. system of pus. population began to become scene in the cause of science. Once wouUlc! .be sehn.ding rekpredsenftativhes Aid, Room 58, Administration aware of a new olfactory sensa- again, those dusty, innocuous- to •. mon ft IS dw,ee enh· ·Or t e Building. Completed applications tion. Its origin was unknown, but looking little •v.indow fans are purpose 0 stu ymg t e present must be returned not later than conditioned by the insecurity of J}Ouring out the smell of know!- pHght of the fl'aternity system. May first. Since a Parents' ·Con- being half safe, students could be edg-e to let all know that progress Finally, he announced that there · fidential Statement must be fur- seen peering furtively over ,their is being progressed. So that this woulc! be a. meeting of the Rush- nished, it is advisable to secure ~ Arnold MindeH and Professor Walter Lowen look -on as Lawton Mor-. shoulders, 'While inhaling deeply. signal ac.hievement is not forgot~ i)tg Rule!! Committee next Tues- the necessary papers prior to leav- rison talres a dr.iuk from a fountaiu (of knmvledge) in Ztuich; Switz· Modern man begins with the self. ten, I would like to nominate the daBy abt F 7 P.M,llin bt~efRI athsklellar. ing for spring recess and to take erland. Both Morrison and Mindell studied. in Europe last year at After it had been determined that Chemistry Laboratory for this 0 l'ance • 0 ne Y spo<e on them home to parents at that task national basis tudies of systems, admires. graded :r. be ETH in Zurich as part of a new foreign study program f()r five year the underarm deodorant supply of week's Titus Oates Award for the Campus Blood Drive. He time. liberal arts-engineering students. · the entire campus had not been meritorious service in the eause stated that this year a large tro- ~------------- \ By Lawton Morris[)ll deplet¢d in toto, speculation turn- of utter chaos. Not content with phy would be awarded to the ed to the social sphere. All things accomplishing the impossible two house with the highest percentage ievement of these ps in the ,. affect level. The engineering. program for for-' I of course, enter immediately after are the product of men, and if it years ago (when they convinced of blood donors. ·The drive will eign sucty, popula1·1y known as the completing a European highschool isn't me,. it must be someone else. a-n entire DalE'v Field lacr-osse take place March 25-26. . \• Zurich rrogram, is now in its sec- at 19, but many have worked, After some rather canine sniffing a.udience that someone was .eating Before aqjourning the meeting, .ond year of operation at Umon completed their military service, of neighbors, this postulate was a rotten egg salad sandwkh), the President Payment stated that College. Although still little known or traveled before deciding upon also discarded. forces of science have forged the Concordy's coverage of the CIVIL . ENGINE·ERS Investigate your Career with not be on the campus, 1t offers the great- a unive:rsity education. There is \' ahead to new milestones. We can last I.F.C. meeting was biased est opportunity of any Union-a:p- no premium given t() those who ~e·w Fl()Or Wax? !> only wait patiently for the lilacs. and de.plorable, and. that he had NEW YORK CITY GOVERNMENT n, would\ indica- · Com- interfere olicies of proved program .for combmed ho- have followed a formal course of written a letter to the paper to eral arts-engineering students to study, for anyone may enter if he One of the most baffling aspects ·r· • \' '• ' .. ' ' • ' • ' ' ' ' •' '• • • study abroad. passes the rigid entrance exami- of the problem was the f~ct that Last year plans sta 1 ted in 1958 nations administered l>y the school. The Big Stink was everywhere. WALKER'S by Professo~ Walter Lowen of the E'l'lf is theoretically orient~d It was inescapable no matter lV!echanical Engineering Depart- and coui:se ottenngs stress bas1c where you went. It was even in PtiARMACY, lN C. sugges- ~ •. would form of One how:.t• able to 1. existing · · which an- ' ment and others achieved reality eaucat1on m the early semesters. the buildings. This single fact .as Arny Mindell (ME) and L:,~.w- All eng1neenng students must take gave rise to the. first really con- Morrison (Eh:) went abroad a total <Jf 12 class hours of math- crete speculation. It was being to study at the Sw1ss Federal In- emat1cs durmg their first year aud delivered in some way to the stitute of Technology in Zurich, are sul>Jected to the highly rigi<l buildings . , . perhaps in the form Switzerland. This year there a1·e and prec1se disciplines o! aes<!np- of a new fi()or wax. But everyone th1·ee at Zurich, Bruce Jnseph, tive ge()metry and mechani<:s. knows that the floors are seldom 1:1 Terry Paas, and Jack Jaeubes. Lower level courses are taught by waxed. Then how about the heat- N. J. Cornanzo-H. L. Walker 509-511 State Street S<:nenectady, N. Y. FR 4-7709 6 # A \ 6 .e 6 A & A f. ,t, ,l A • f. 4 ,1,-4 ,& A I' admired He Nautilus of f same of his His talk As far as has .been determined, lecture to classes .mnging 1rom ing plant? This theory was put this program is unique in opera- ~50. to 500 students. l:'roblems are forth about Tuesday morning. It tion and in the challenge it sets ass1gne<1 ?11 a weekly bl;l-SlS and seemed feasible. The smell was before the student. ln this age in discussed m s,esstons adm~~1stered being transmitted through the which international \togetherness\ uy p~or~ss?rs ass1stan~s. lhe em· heating lines and being exhaled is stressffd,. the Union program phasp 1s Sw1ss, stre~smg care1u!, through the smokestack o! the 1~--------------:i tries to achieve a basic puriJOSe of uetal!ed, exact thmkmg and logi- heating plant. Judge Crater had . one. '- . all foreign study opportunities. It cal presentation, truly come to a horrible end! •·· hopes that as its students work Ex.ceiJt for reqt,~ireci laboratories and study with those of. ot;her nq.- and problem sessions, a student's vironment and the intellectual tionalities all will gain a deeper' proficiailcy is measured only by stimulation of contact with alien appreciation of the cultures which his ability to. stand the three ex- ideas. He is free to specialize or ~· engineel'ing techniques have aminations interspersed through- to gain a deeper understanding of brought in close communication. out his univel'sity \)areer. The fi1·st basic subj-ects. The absence of A Union· student desiring to cornes <lilly after h..e· ;has attended hour tests enables him to concen- study under terms of the Zurich three semesters an4 1;4e opportun- trate on the subJect which at the t ..1 program must gain approval from ity to lag in studies is g~eat. The moment captures his interests. \ the Divis ian of Engineering and intelligence of the students, how-. . the Department of German. He is ever, is about. at the'- level of Na- It is yet too early to evaluate primarily responsible for all ar- • tional Merit ScltolM\$. and · . . the program in terms of the ef- (t •' rangements which rm~st be made 'sao11;, realize. :from the unlrendmg fects it ha.s had on the careers of If f' Up tO and including the year'S deman.Q.s-~f't}l~ :grt:t~1i~m·r:; that no the StUdentS WhO participated last study abroad. quarter mil he given;. t(.)·tl!.t~&e who year for neithe1• have graduated, • The Eidenoessiche Technike- cannot adjust to the ·rigots of Both of them are convinced that hochschule, as the school is called study. M:ost f\tudents attend: fr~Y the program should be continued: in German, is ~n institution of ap- those classes ·which they consid~r- SQ long as .there are qualified ap· · proximately 3,000 students, 40 indispensable because there are no plieroets:. The Swiss .Go.v.ernment percent of whom .are non~Sw.iss. attendance ,requirements. f-'hey is likewise satisfied, for it has es- HELP NEEDED Term Papers, Theses Typed LOW RATES New Resume Service Proven to Bring Top Offers BILL'S TYPING And MIMEO. SERVICE 350 12th St. Dl 6-2866 SPORT COATS SPECIA PURCHASE Hockanum Worum.bo 1984 334 State St. We cash your checks gladly Security-Opportunity And Benefits Our engineering program in .. eludes d~sig)t and supervision of construction of public build- ings, highways, bridges, and water supply, sanitation and port facilities. Immediate Placem.ent No Civil Service Test As a CIVIL ENGINEERING TRAINEE, your starting salarY will be $6050; within ·12 month~ it can he $7 roo with annual pay increases. Some of the MANY BENEHTS include: Promotion based Pn ·mer,it~4 weeks 'liaca .• tion-paid s.ick leave and I· I holidays-Outstanding a·n-d progressive retirement plan in· eluding city pension and social security-Military rights and privileges including traini·nlt leaves with pay. Write for applicatioi< and further informatit>llc to Engineering Unit \C\ New York City Personnel Department 96 Duane Street, N.ew Y ark 7, N •. Y. Mothe,r Ferro's Restaurant Spedafiz:ing in Italian • American Food Disr:ount for Union Students 20c on the dol·lar P-IZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. Swiss educators assume umver-· rely on outstde study and prmted tablished a scholarship fund to be sity students have reached a stage course notes for tile less impor- divided every year among those \' of maturity enabling them to dis- tant coUci'ses, who qualify t(} go to Zurich. . cipline themselves to meet the Outside of -the classroom a stu- -;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;~;;;~~;;;;;;;;~~;;~~tl <~o¢-.......:-c-->-:>--><>-<>--><>--<>-<>-0-><>-<>-<><->-<>-<>-<><>-<>-<>-->-¢>.<:-6..¢.-<>-<>-<~ complex and difficult requirements dent's independence is just as r of the system, There is no limit great. ETH has no c~mpus and J \\ on the number of courses a stu- operat€s.1i.o.s..tud:ent r~sidence. Ad- dent may attendai\there is ~t rninistxative b:reaucracy _is. r:egligi- Union. ETH assumes a respons1~ . bie and all student actiVIties are bility for education, but not for organized: and administered by the -~ the education of a particular stu- students. \~~ ·dent. If, as some psy~hologists Th~ un~versityd<>es make. minor· RECORDS OF COMEDY - JAZZ - CLASSICAL - FOLK AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS Topes and Diamond Needles Profes~ional Quality and Wholesale Prices • • BUT NOT EXPENSIVE . SWEATERS POLISHED COTTONS IVY SLACKS CAMPUS OUTER WEAR • tell us, one retains a th1rd of all contrtbutwns .to cultural life by that he learns, a generalized com- offel'ing courses in the humanities parison of the Swiss and Ameri-. in the early evening. Attendance, ~ can systems would indicate that althou.gh considerable, is volun- in the latter the subject is taught tary. A-fterwards, a student :may in triplicate while in the former g<J into the city .to attend the the- the student is e:x-posed to three ater, opera, art cinema or to a APEX MUSIC KORNER 164. Jay St. ADLER SOCKS Suggestion! Show Unipn lcle_nfification Card and Get Exclusive ~ .. LTER •• times as much. cafe f01• discussion. State St. at Corner of Broadway Phone FR 7-1 ll 2 1 0% OFF on All Merchandise Aspiting engineerl:J enter ETH . For the U~ion student the:ce is at ari average ag~ of 21. A few, fth~e:Jg~r~e~a~t~e~x;cglt~e~m~e;n~t~o~f~a~n~egw~e~n~-~~======~============~==1111~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;.~,_~ DISqOUNTS ON CASE- LOTS Free Delivery - ~! I ~ $6.25 Daily (Incl. Breakfast & lllnner t. t SPECIAL MID•WEEK BUDGET PLANS . l FOLDER-Write or Phone FR2·3465 Hours: 9 A.M. to 11:00 P.M. 720 Albany St. L\\~9WE, VERMONT • Alpine 3-722 : ........ Jay Jewelry 315 STATE STREET :l:Jiamon~ ... Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and w·holesaler. Arnold Fisher 'SO __ \

4 Friday, March 1 S, 1963 Letters ••.• was not flying, precipitation or C'f \C.I dA • nt undestand that the Union oantos~onore . gatn (Continued from Page 2) AFROCT 1:1nit is in charge of fly- Cinema Review.: Wine And Roses By Douglass M. Allen completely. Faced with'this frus- ing the flag. Am I to assume. ~Ta......,.ed. to All. E. ·cr Al c tration, it apparently becomes that this noble group, solemnly 1 'l' ~· 11\ · · · . · · · • · ..t\:J. · necessary to deprive othel'S charged with training future de~ ·those very things for which the fenders of the nation, is ignorant critics were themselves striving. of the rules g·overning the flag Days of Wine and Roses is hung in Naples speaking perfect Amer- Less<.:ms. have been learned from of that nation? Or doesn't it over In Schenectady._for a sec?lid•j· ican ~nd finishes him, a hero in the Second World War, for indeed caz·e? Either way, I don't want week. It rs mtoxJcatmgly movmg America who can hardly speak. fraternities are fast becoming a te put my freedom in the hands ami features a br!ll!ant perform- : 1 English. When Lanza belts out catch-all sca.pecgoat every bit as ·of a group which doesn't ance by the heretotore comedian • with the arias from Verdi, Leon- much as the Jews once were in ;know how to fly the flag of Jack Lemmon turned serious ac- cona:Jlo, Rossini, Pucdni, and the Nazi-controlled nt~tions. The country which it defends. Sm·ely tor. The story is <t romance. ·rest he is as stimulating a per- streams of half-truths and down- the AFROTC can find someone Lemmon as a Sun Francisco PR former as you cot~ld wish. And nght abuse ·language are trans- to ta:ke the flag down when the man, drinks .un and off the job. He if y_ou're in a sing a~ong. with forming fraternity houses into weathe1· turns foul. All of the marnes h1s client's secretary (Lee Mat·Io mood get thee to 1t quick. ghett 0 s us effectively as barbed cadets don't have classes the l{emici;) who only takes choc0Jate Of course, Show Boat was a wire. time. malts. '!'heir tender romance leads popular musical comedy some And yet I suggest that the fra- tu compat!bihty -- she learns to twenty odd years. before this par- ternity plays, as we aU must rec~ drink With him -and thep chao::; ticular fl:lm was ceHuloirled. The og-nize at some time, an import- as both become enslaved to the music by Je1·ome Kern and lyrics unt, lat·gely beneficial role to the bottle, It is a very triangular af- by Oscar Hammerstein II are as college community. Even more fair, and the rest of the movie is good as they come, and the film is important, the absence of fratern- the newlyweds' attempt to get today as .entertaining or corny as Hies, whieh is even now being ad- out ef hot wate1·. it ever was. \'ocated, would deprive this col- Though the scenes of deHrious lege of one of its maJor instru- fits - those of drink and with- Range of Performance ments of education. I should con- drawal, in and out of strait-jack- The performances by Howard sider it less of .a loss if. one of the ets, are effective, they are too Keel, Ava Gardner, eta! are from academic buildings ·should be de- easily effective. At times the film good to not objectionable. Wil- stroyed. :Denying the outgoing, suffers from the perennial diffi- Ham Warfield, a colored baritone Pxtroverted student the outlet> culty of \probiem\ film; it be- who lures out \01' Man River\ is and opportunity for development comes more tract than art. outstanding. Joe E. Brown as which the fraternities provide If you already know about the Captain Hawks, and the amusing would assure that our future tragedies of. alcoholism, you might dance-and-song routines by Marge do1·ms would become more chao- want to give up this exciting, but and Gower Champion deserve spe- tic trouble spots than the fra\ depressing movie for good spirj.ts. cia! notice, too. ternities are now falsely accused: The reel's at the State. If one can suspend his disbe- of bemg. l\llajor criticism against Roreau Vintage The Great Caruso and Showboat are both songfests of 1951 vin- tage, a pretty good year for win- ning, by the way. Both fi'lms are remmkedly Korean era, and it comes as a blow to realize that 1951 was so long ago. The former picture stars Mario Lanza as the great Caruso and it' Lanza isn't up to the standard of the remarkable Enrico, he at least sings spiritedly away throughout the film and sometimes with the accompaniment of Dorothy Kirs- ten and Blanche Thebon who somehow outgun him. lief ·long enough to accept the fratermties has used the state- story-line which is a gob of pure ment that ''after all, the main joy this now classic musical. reason we are here at Union is schmalz then he might well en- for education.\ It is vital for us These two films role at the Plaza. not to overlook the important fact that \education\ derived ffom textbooks is no education at aU J.f not accompanied by the development of common sense, proper judgment, sociability and other traits wh1ch can only be learned beyond the classroom, and .tor Which the fraternity struc- ture is ideally suited. Charles Sinclair '66 To the Editor of Concordiensis: 1t is a rather well known fact that the great majority of the mdi victuals comprising the staff of Concordiensis are presently or at some time or another have lJeen, members of Phi EpsHon Pi fraternity. I believe that this is basically an unhealthy and un- desirable situation, for obvious reasons, but I also believe that it must be admitted, in all fair- ness, that favoritism and par- tiality in print have been largely avoided in the past. The issue of March 1 was, however, a sicken- ing exception to the rule. ln the first place, the lead heading on the front page (\Phi l!;p Walks Out of u·c Over !:'ledge R1ghts Debate'') was in no conce1vabJe manner an appro- priate one. 1 dare say that Phi ~p's walking out was dramatic and unfortunate, but by no stretch of the imagination was. this the highlight of the even- mg, except perhaps from the au- thor's personal slanted point of v1ew. Such editorializing be- lOngs, by definition, in the edi- tol\Ials. Further, this article was Senior Dave Santos is one of three repeaters on the 1963 All- East Small College basketball squad of the Eastern College Ath- letic Conf erenee. The team, selected on the basis of nominations after each week's performances, saw Santos and Bob Nugent of King's C0llege selected for the second straight year and Moravian's Dave Kos- man picked for an unprecedented third straight time. All-time High Scorer Santos, Union's career scol'ing and rebounding record holder, av- eraged 18.8 points and 10.8 re- bounds per game in his final year. The six-footer from Amsterdam hit 46.3 per cent of his shots from the field in leading Union to a 12-6 record, its best in years. Tony Lustig received hon01'able mention. DAVE SANTOS Intramural Swim Meet Tuesday, March 19, 1963 50 yard Freestyle - Preliminaries 50 yard Butterfly . 50 yard Freestyle - Finals 75 yard individual medley (Fly, Back, Free) 20Q yard Medley Relay (4 men) (Back, Breast, Fly, Freel Thu~:sday, March 21, 1963 100 yard Freestyle 50 yard Breaststrolce 50 yard Back stroke 200 yard F1·ee Relay ( 4 men) Scoring of points Five contestants qualify for points. All qualifications will be based upon referee's judgment and times l'ecotded. Only in the 50-yard Freestyle will the five fa:;test swimmers be allowed to swim a second race to determine 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th place. The film is that sort of Holly- wood biography (more correctly an animated album of familiar operatic airs and scenes) which starts Caruso out as a young boy Casting has been completed for the Mountebanks' spring produc- tion of \The Apple,\ by Jack Gel- ber. The play, which has as its framework the meeting of an off- beat dtama group in a eoffee- house, features Rita Accurso, Len- ore Wisnyi, Bob Skloot, Bill Schauer, Steve Dubansky, John Beckerman and Charles Panken- ier. The drama which will be pre- sented through Parents' Weekend (April 27 and 28), is under the direction of Professors Gifford Wingate and John Girdner. I urge us all to step out of ou1· shoes, examine this issue without eruot10n, and return to a proper perspective and to our senses, be- fore irrepairable damage is caus- ed by th1s folly. . riddled with opinions, inaccurac- Ies and downright contradictions to actual fact. .!first of all, Dave Scheichet spells his last name us- mg the following letters and in tJus order: S-C-H-E-I-C-H-E-'1'. ::iecondly, he is not and never has been ''Vice President\ of the H'C as was so clearly brought out in the article, and thirdly, at no ttme during the meeting did he .have his 11ands anywhere near the gavel, as the article states again rather clearly and repeat- edly. I shall not even begin to discuss hpw slanted .in the direc- tion of Phi Ep?s own opinions and how inaccurate the writing in the rest of the article was, since it was so pitifully feeble and obvious. Fz·eestyle and Medley relays In all other €Vents Fh·st - 10 po~nts First 6 points Second 6 pomts Second 4 points FIELD'S LIQUOR STORE 38 Erie Blvd. (Across :from Train Station) -~-------------- VAH CURLER MUSIC SHOP 501 State Street Richard W. Bleecker, '63 To the Editor of Concordiensis: TMrd - 4 points Third ~ 3 points Fourth - 3 points I.<'ourth - 2 points Fifth - 1 point r\CAA rules will be followed in judging a stroke to be legal or illegal. At least 6 men from a group must compete to gain entrance points. Enter as many as you wish in any individual event. Two teams only in relay events. An ind·ividual may enter only 3 events. · No one who has earned a Bloclt U swimming award at any t~me is eligible. 4-ny Freshman who has ·been excused from Swimming for Gym or who has competed in a Meet is ineligible. Entries will be taken in Pool - 30 minutes prior to start of' Meet. Starting time - 4:30 P.M. Save On Our Own RECORDS MUSIC A further point might be brought out about another area of the newspaper (or perhaps the term \opinionated gossip-rag\ might be said that these letters some words of clarification are would be more appropriate). All we1'e the only ones to reach the necessary. .... 1 ,j, Olde Village Private Label Spirits JAZZ POPS \Neither rain nor sleet nor snow nor dark of night shal1 stay these couriers from the swift completion of their appointed rounds.\ A fine slogan for the L'\S Post Office, it unfortunately does not apply to the US fla,g. I say unfortunately because, at Union, it seems not to. Every i\lag manual I have ever read says that the flag should not be flown during any form of precipitation. To mention a specific instance, the flag flew all day on W ednes- day, Mareh 6. It snowed all day on Wednesday, March 6. As a matter of fact, I can not remem- ber any instances when the flag of the letters to the editor that Coucordy office, and were there- Fraternities have as their were published last week, with fore the only ones to be printed. raison d'etre to the college com- J one exception (I believe) were This would be a satisfactory ex- \t th th · · written by Phi Eps or ex-Phi Eps. planation if only it were true. mum Y more an e unprovmg ----------- We Deliver Free Student Discounts FR 4-6846 CLASSICS DIAMANTE'S Enjoy ovr fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNEll GATE ON NOTI ST. OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M.- SUNDAYS 5 P.M.-3 A.M. Upper Union Street - Presents - Held over for 8th week ..... G E N E R 0 D G E R S - upstairs Dancing. downstairs. saturda.y night DINNER SPECIAL. - BROILED: Black Angus Steak or Live Maine Lobster full course- and encouraging of the academic This amounted to thirteen names Howeve1·, I for one handed in a achievement among their indi- compared with one \outsider.\ lettel· the week before, but yet vidual members. It is also their How did this boy's letter happen these other letters seemed to have responsibility to fill the gap be- \) to get in? Perhaps it slipped by acquired some degree of preced- tween the academic and the real purely by mistake, since this .3nce. 1 Wonder why. worlds. A :fraternity brings men quality seems to be what last In summing up, it might be together, and each must become week's paper was bas.ed upon. lt sa.id that Concordy is, in gene1•al, \!Sed to adapting and adjusting, 'J 430 State St. CANNON BATH TOWELS 36x66 inches Imprinted with Union College Seal $3.98 Union Pharmacy 600 Union Street Where Union College boys have gathered for over 50 years. FR 4-3605 Midtown Barber Shop 515 UNION STREET ( N¢xt to Union Inn) Specializing in Restyling of Hairdos Each· head is given personal care Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmoaphere NICHO·LAUS RESTAURANT Since 1 895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. large parties aceomodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations .phone FR 4-891 7 a pretty good newspaper, and that learning responsibility to the AI Sommer, is a pretty good edi- group, and learning to promote tor (did you enjoy reading Gulli- himself. ver's Travels?), but that last week the paper was far from be- Hazing has in the past, and t ing what it has been in the past still does promote responsibility, and even further from what it· and it teaches men to work to- should and can be. gether for a common goal. This Donald B~~Iiif,-;- 63 committee was not trying to abol- ish hazing; only to insure that To the Editor of Concordiensis: As one of the authors of the IFC's motion to govern the ac- tion of fraternities in dealing with their pledge~, (along with Sid · Schnoli of Phi Sigma Delta, ex- home of Bolero, and Jim Stros- berg of Phi Epsilon Pi), I feel ~.f ' - j : Best Service in Town SCHUHL ESSO SERVICE 715 Nott St. Come in and Fill Up with the BEST GAS IN TOWN its practices do not ha1•m pledges in any way. The three parts of this motion, which all the mem- bers agreed upon, were passed :>. by the IFC with a few slight changes in wording. Mr. Strosberg's amendment that no fraternity may instigate t.. any process that may prove detri- -.., mental to the safety or academic success of any pledge is simply a generalization of parts one and two of the motion. This amend- ·~ ment stated. nothing new or con- tradictory; therefore, it was un- necessary. The IFC is composed of 17 <!)-<! members, and it was the consen- sus of this body that no pledge be submitted to acts which would endanger his person or academic · • !i£e. The actions carried on by a few vociferous members of this body should not condemn the gmup's action. -.h , \ G. Daniel Prigmore, '65 Boulevard Bowl . - - . 135 ERIE SOUtEVAR.D 32 AM·F BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES Friday, Mar M,er1 Witl Union Coli Mike MHle -Co-Capt. < scheid. B~ Bernhard, ; Lawtcn M• Last ' that it is 1 most impr champions ., above thir4 powers by to be in a ing an UJ 104. Unio each. Union s Friday nil medley an qualified E tively for Then Bill distance n . ;points in finals. Sc time of 5 seconds oJ The sp: held at 1 ernoon; t auer, wh• yard frees varsity re the Nisk1 ond recor Boles dro style reco prelim ina thirteen e ary event The 401 off Satur• ion's qilir Gl'ant, an slow star on strQn)1 second pl: up his s~ time in t1 ] The 50 thrillel'. finished ' other. Th s1:1ltation, Espenscb placing t ning tim• existing Boles. Bill Be :tJ total mo· ftnish in ConsistaJ rison re· ,other fif1 The Hl by Colg1 the first 'Ill onds for Orange scheid fi Will Gra in the br ~ behind 1;1 The h' was the Union a1 ..- with ide freestyh: handily in fact, Teacherl •• ish in h( the fom needed j SchneidE f~ penschei ord a£ : than th• this rel~ · t\ the dist .t'h man in 50 secor style. Union «: able poi next ye won the time of (<' lowers 1 Kal Sc Dave R 100 y~

1963 • AC and 2nd, any for of ion are their .... 1 .. com- J proving r indi- their be- \) real gs men become justing, 'J the and t to- • This abol- that pledges arts of passed :,. slight stigate ..,_ detri- . ., ademic a and ·~ con- un- of 17 01)-<! pledge would · • on by this n the ·.h 'I \ '65 ''II. Friday, March 15, 1963 M.ermen Share Second With. Orange At States 5 Coach Witzel Eyes Trackmen Tie For Ninth '63·'64HoopProspects ·In Union Invitational Union College basketball Cooch~--- Carl Witzel had a lot of \ifs\. . . Tomorrow afternoon in Memor-«•>--------------- when he was asked about next tatwn m basketball as he hus i·n ial Fieldhouse the Engineers from season's prospects. football. Troy host a track contingent from Witzel mentor since 1959 has Brown, a sophomore and only. Hamilton ·College, and it is ex- earned the rare distinction (at tn-[5-8, may well .develop into the pected that Union mentor Wilford ion) of coaching two consecutive, team play-maker next season. A Ketz will have the Dutchmen en-~ winning teams. During his first 1 1 bac~court man, he nmke~ thil'd. ter the competition. The situation two !)easons, he compiled a frus-, behind Santos. and Jones m per- arises because of RPI's lack of I , trating 8-43 recot·d. Last year his' cen~age of field goals made. He ~n indoo~· course, but at ~ny rate team ~queaked through with 11-91 r~nked as. one of the best. defen- tt shou!d prove to be. an mt:erest-~ and th 1 s season posted a 12-6 rec- .·I sive playei s on the team thts year· .. ing and hard fought triangular ord, the best a Union team has Holowaty and Clover, both of contest. done since 1958-59 when Tom1 whom ran~e at,ound the 6-5 ~ark, Kelley Scores Cartmill!, now director of athletics 1 <·ould provtde t~e needed hetgh~. Although Cortland and the Uni- at .St. Lawrence, coached his squad Both showed Impron;ment th1s versity of Rochester, who finished to a 15-5 record. 1• s~ason and the exper;ence could one-two, were far ahead of Union, \It has taken a while to get. v.ell develop tl:tem mto sound Hamilton and RPI in the Urtion players . adjusted to the type of1 players next year. Indoor In~it::~tional Meet last Sat- has.ketbaiJ; r. coach,\ Witzel e~-.1 Lustig Sparked Team 1 urday, ~he ~atter ~hi·ee were to- piaim;d. Fleshman coach fhns. 1 \We had some breaks this gether m mnth (tie), tenth, and · Schm1d has been ~ help. too. , year;\ says Witzel. \Lusti re- eleventh (tie) place respec~ively, And th.en there 1s Dm€ Santos, 1 .. covered from apr b gk. only a two pomt margm m be grea.test scorer and rebounder in jury faster th e-sets?n t adc Illd\ · tween In that contest Stu Kelle; the colege's history. \We wonT once h. e was J·nan han ICipa et atnd . o-athe~ed thre€ of th~ Garnet's · 1 h' \ W't 1 d 't \ t. · · s ape we s ar e \ t ep ace 1~. 1 .ze a mt s, a . to win.\ Lustig saw limited ac- meager five points with a fine per- least not v.Ith a smgle player. If. tioil duri'ng· th fi t f formance in his specialty of pole we are to do ':\ell players like of the season, ~hrer: of :hic~aU~~ vaulting. Joel Nussbaum, whos~ Gary Brown,. M1ke ~olowaty and ion lost. Once h . · d' . s·peed had given. Union followers John Clover from thts year's var- . e was m con Itton h' h. h · . ·h fi •t d L R' k' Al H dl to play an entue .game the team . Ig opes m t e fty-yard dash ~~ Y an arry tv 1r:•. r - compiled an i m p r e 8 ~ i v e 11 .. 3 and the broad jump, ;pulled a leg WILFORD H. ·KETZ . u;ka, Dave Kasper and Larry F~-. record. muscle a week earlier while run- btan from the fre.shma~, team wxll ning at Rochester and was side- h 1 u Union College swimming team-Left to right, front-Alan Rosner, ha~e to, com~ t~Iough. WON . 12 _LOST 6 lined during the competition and Three fres man wrest ers at· ll\ .Mike MiHer, Dave Warmflash, Dick Beane and Dick Paradise. IY.Iiddle J?on t f.orget, Lew .Jon. ~s and FG FT Reb. TP Av. will probably be 80 for the re-. ion College will compete in the -Co-Capt. Will' Grant,. John poles, Bill Schauer and Fletcher Espen- E4dte Tyndall, who also graduate inainder of the season Plebe Tournament at West Point f scheid. Back-Coach Tony Turner, Phil Evans, Jib Garrison, Bill this year, were three-yea,r letter- D. Santos 119 101 195 339 18.8 · ' . Friday and Saturday, coach Bruce Bernhard, Co-Capt. Kal Schneider and manager John Dreier. Missing men. They may have played un- T. Lustig 93 90 221 276 16.2 Hurdle Record Set Allison has announced. · · Lawtcn Morrison. der the shadow of Santos but they L. Jones 58 30 140 146 8.1 One record was set in the com- By Phil Evans nevertheless IIU\de valuable con- M. Sahr 60 25 83 145 8.1 petition, that by Dave Henry of They are Jere Anderson, who. Last weekend the Union College swimming tearp. again proved tributions to the team.'' E. Tyndall 33 16 74 82 4.5 Alfred with a 7:00 clocking in the attends Albany Pharmacy, Dale: that it is Union's most outstanding team of the year, this time by a An extreme amount of pressure G. Brown 28 23 37 79 4.9 55-yard high hurdles. Schneider, and Jan Werner. An-· most impressive showing at the Upper New York State swimming w6 i5ll g;o ton Toby Ltustig, UniThon:s. JM.CHlolowaty 20 8 61 48 3.7 Team scores: Cortland 34%, derson·, a 130 poun.der, had a 3-t'. championships. The mermen, not given much of a chance to finish - pivo man, nex season. IS • over 7 8 39 22 1.7 Rochester 25lh, Springfield 24, ., above third place by anyone but coach Tony Turner, surprised the big season he was second to Santos in R. Kasper 4 1 3 9 1.8 University of Buffalo 17 q/6, Trin- record this seas.on, Schneider com- powers by tying Syracuse University for second place. Colgate proved scoring and the team's top re- E. Hannan 0 0 ity 16, Alfred 13, Roberts Wes- piled a recm'd of 1-3 at 157 pounds. to be in a class by itself, compil-<S>- · · bounder. Opposing too.ms will be M. Goldberg 1 0 leyan 6, Buffalo State 5 1/3, .Le- Werner went undefeated in five ing an unofficial point total of fourth in the 100 yard backstroke, able to pay closer attention to him T. Finnegan 0 0 0 moyne and Union (tie) 5, .. Ifamil- 104. Union and Syracuse had 56 and Shields was fourth in the 100 without Santos around~unless of J. Soper 1 0 ton 4, Vermont and Rensselaer matches. each. yard freestyle. The medley relay course other players perfor-m well R.MacKinnon- Polytechnic Institute (tie) 3, Ith- The top 40 wrestling teams in Union showed hel' power early qf . Siers, Heyman, Rowe, and enough to relieve this pressme. B. Tooney - aca 1lh, Hartwick 1/3, and Har- the East are expected to be repre- Friday night when the 400 yard Shields also placed fourth. Best scoring prospects who vJ.ll B.Hutchinson - pur 0. sented in the tournament. medley and freestyle relay teams Coach Turner de~erves to be join the varsity next season a;re qualified second 8 nd third respee- cop.gratulated. for hi~ fine w~rk Larry Rivkin who averaged nea:t>lY. tively for Saturday night's finals. t~s Y_ear. His teachmg and ~n- 16 points a game and Al Hrdlicka,,'- Then Bill Schauer, ace freestyle Spir~twn conver.ted a talented but who boasted a 13.5 average and is distance man, SCO!'ed Union's first me.dioc~·e team mto the st:ongest beginning to build the same repu- ;points in the 500 yard freestyle sw1mmmg squad ~hat Umon has finals. Schauer placed third, his ev:er seen. If he 1s as successful time of 5:32.3 dropping almost 6 With the talen~ed fresh~en that seconds off his varsity record. he helped entice to Um?n l~st BIRD LIVES The sprint preliminaries were fall ~n . undefeated swimmmg held at 1:00 P.M. Saturday aft- team 18 highly probable. ernoon; the right time fo.r Sch- auer, who qualified for the 200 yard freestyle finals, .setting.a new varsity record of 1 :54.0. This was the Niskayuna sophomore's sec- ond record of the weekend. John Boles dropped the 100 yard free- style record to 50.8 seconds in his preliminary ~ea~. Nine of U~io!l's thirteen entr1es m these prehmm- ary events qualified for the finals. The 400 yard medley relay led off Saturday evening's finals. Un- ion's quintet of Beane, Bernhard, Grant, and Schneider got off to a slow start, but managed to come. on strong at the end for a solid second place. Schauer then pick~d up his second bronze medal, thts time in the 200 yard freestyle. Espensheid Wins 'l,'he 50 yard freestyle.was a ~eal thriller. Five of the s1x fiiJahsts finished within .7 seconds of each other. The judges, a~te~ much con- sultation chose Umon s Fletcher Espenscheid as winner, ~th Bo!es placing third. Espenschetd:s wm- ning time of 22.& seconds tted the existing varsity record held by Boles. Bill Bernhard kept Union's point Ill total mounting· with a fifth place finish in the individual medley. Consistant diving by Lawton Mor- rison rewarded Union with an- ,other fifth place medal. The 100 yard freestyle was won by Colgate's Stuek, who became the first man ever to break 50 sec- fll onds for this ¢ye!lt in Syracuse's Orange Pool. Bole$ and Esp.en- scheid finished second and thn·d. Will Grant continued his succes$eS in the breaststroke, finishing third \ behind two men from Colgate. The highlight of the afternoon was the 4:00 yard freestyle. r~Iay. Union and Syracuse had qual:fied \' with identical times, but Umon's freestylers beat the Orangell}en handily iri the finals so handily, in fact, that Brockport State Teachers College was .a~le to ~n- r~ ish in between, thus gtvmg Umon the fqur point ~argi~ that she · needed for the tie. Thts teaJ;U of Schneide:t;, Boles, Schauer, ~nd Es- .-~ penschsid set a new vars1ty rec- m·d a! 3-:24.8, 5.2 seconds better . than the old one. Boles' split in · t\ this relay was 49.8, so to him goes 1 it the distinction of .being tthebfirst 1 man in Union's history o rea c 50 seconds for the 100 yard free- style. Union's frosh showed consider- «: able potential, and should bolster next year's squad. Paul Shields. won the individual medley with a. time of 2:15.9, which unofficially '<\ lowers the varsity record held by Kal Schneider by 2.2 seconds. Dave Rowe placed second in the 100 y~rd butterfly, Dick Siers Intramural Totals Thru March 6, 1963 D. Phi ___ .. _______ .... 412.376 Chi Psi .............. 402.858 Phi Sig Deit...... 377.776 D. U ......... -···---... 334.601 Psi U .... _____ .. ___ .... 332.063 Phi Delt ............ 295.236 Kap Sig ............ 286 .. 982 Phi Ep_ .... -- .. - .. -··- 284.125 Sig Chi -··--·---- .. -· 276.189 Betas .................. 270.158 Theta Delt ........ 262.538 Sig Phi ···--·--· .. --- 250.476 K. A ..... __ ,_ .... _..... 231.429 Phi Gam ............ 230.791 Alpha Delt ._...... 227.302 Ind's .-.-- .. --·---·---- 219.999 D. Chi .. ---------·---- 202.222 Phi Sig Kap ...... 199.681 for the finest lD custom clothing and furnishings I 14 E. 44th St. • New Yozk 17, N.Y. IN THE COLLEGE BRAND ROUND· UP PRIZE: Beaotiful 19\ Portable Television by Admiral RULES: 1. Contest open to gil students of this school only. 2. Empty packages of Marlboro, Parliament, Philip Morris and Alpine, must 3. be submitted in order to qualify • Closing, date, time and location will be announced in your campus newspaper. 4. No· entrie.s will be accepted after official closing time. ·WHO WINS: Prixe will ·be awoarded to any recognized Campus Group, Fraternity, Sorority or Individual' submittins-.th!l largest number of empty packages of Marlboro, Parliament, Phillip Mo~ris ~eli Alp.ine, Get on the BRANDWkGON ••• it's lots of fun! THE ENGAGEMENT RING WITH THE PERFECT CENTER DIAMOND True artistry is expressed in the brilliant fashion styling of every Keepsake diamond eng.ag.ement ring. Each setting is a masterpiece of design, reflecting the full brilliance and beauty of the center diamond , , , a perfect gem of flawless clarity, fine color and meticulous modern cut Authqrized Keepsake Jewele~s may be lis'led in the Yellow Pages. Visit one in your area and choose from many beautiful styles, each with the name \Keepsake'' in the ring and on the tag . Please send two new booklets, \How to Plan Your Engage- merit and Wedding\ and \Choosing Your Diamond Rings,\ both for only IOc. Also send special offer of beautiful 44 page Bride's Book. Name'--------------------------------~---- COOPER Ring $500, Wedding Ring 50,00.-RIVIERA Ring Add•eSS·------------------~----- Citv~· _________ co ______ Sto3h~----- KEEPSAKE DIAMOND iHNGS, SYRACUSE 2, ·N· Y. .I

6 Changing Political Scene Examined by Steingut Stanley Steingut, Assemblyman from Brooklyn, de- livered the Brackett Lecture in Practical Politics. Steingut entitled his talk \Responsi:ble Political Leadership in a Changing Society.'' The Assemblyman's remarks on<$•>---~~---~~---~ s. c. • • (Continued from ~age 1) I.F.C.'s Hell Week regulations . eluded a denunciation of the erage giveR the last IFC meeting by the Concordiensis. He said Con- cordiensis' first page article was \confusing.\ According to Pay- ment the .proposal as printed was incorrect. \It is regrettable that the 'while classes are in had to he added to clause two in place of 'during the school year',\ he said. The· second factua.] correction ih the article involves the fact that Sche-: ichet is not, as was fallaciously re- · ported, Vice-President of the IFC. Payment explained that the basic 1·epresentat1ve government were preraced. by his bne! .tustoncal outlme of the JJemocrat1c .t-any. He maimamed tnat annougn lt was tne oluest pany ill amenca it was no.t antlqua\ed. 'lhis, ne went on to say, may be attrwuteo to its V1tal1ty ana its \uruamng glow of youtn.'' .;:,temgut out nol see this vitality vam::>nmg ill the past, but stated that 1t 1s strong even today • .t.ven though he saw himself as an \embattled pohtlc- ian in a changmg society'· (pos- s~bly referrmg to hls 1eud ,~1th Mayor Wagner in New York City), he saw his party making defimte forward strides. at the last meeting was one a \state's rights\ na- ture, and not a measure of dis'-. agreement with the philosophy of · the proposal. Steingut's talk centered around the dynamic aspects of his own · local .Uemocratic party and its at- tempt to keep pace w1th the chang- ing face of the political scene. The . two areas in which Steingut spoke about the modern1zation of his party were its responsiveness to the people and its development of candidates. STANLEY STEINGUT Steingut expressed his belief that the people's wants could best be served by united, clearlY: .de- fined and well orgamzed polltlc?-1 hold. Kennedy, Dewey, and Lei- machinery. He pointed to h!s kowitz have disproved the ba,l- Brooklyn organization as keeJ,Jing anced ticket idea, said Steingut, with his basic concept. In Kmgs and Sam Stratton frustrated the County there are twenty-two as- practice of gerrymandering. sembly districts. From these come Steingut expressed his belief representatives which form the that a candidate of today must County Committee. The Commit- have three things, character, o'pin- tee elects the hierarchy !>f county ions, and a proper introduction to officers, i.e. the County Leader, the people. He said he was sorry and the Vice-Leader. Steingut also that the interparty fight in New pointed to a measure, which makes York was hampering the candi- it mandatory that the Leader and date's chances by not exposing the Vice-Leadel.' be of opposite sex, him to the people until a short as being another step forward. time before election. He pointed Steingut felt that this machin-. to Morgenthau's two month cam- ery makes it easiel' for people to paign as an example. This led voice their opinions. The Com1~y Steingut into a plead. for unity in committee holds annual pub~1c the Democratic party. He did not hearings on the initiation of legis- want the party to \squander re- lation. On a smaller scale each sources in intramural strife.\ In- Assembly District holds meetings . stead he urged the leadership to through its political clubs. These strive for a strong front, and a clubs also sponsor discu.ssions at;d \vigorization\ of the party. forums. The speaker felt tha~ ~his new orientation of the political clubs was much more v~luable Ph•} than its benevolent functwn of · 1 OS • • • the past, _ The District Leader then turned (Continued from Page 1) to another phas.e of politics that its Sweepstakes victory by plac- he views as moving forward with · ing second in the extemporaneous the times, that of election. pro~- speaking contest. He spoke on· esses. Although the change ~n this the possibility of a nuclear test facet is not as marked as l!l re- ban. sponsiveness to people, .Stemlfo\ut In winning the tournament, still believes progress IS bemg Union scored victories over Col- made. Even though the concepts gate, Rochester Institute of Tech- of a balanced ticket, gerrymander- nology, Syracuse, Wells College, ing, and geographical c~ndidat~s Cortland, Rosary Hill, and Buf- still exist, they are losmg the1r faJo. The only loss was to Le- Prexy Speaks At Assembly President Carter Davidson s~?ke Tuesday morning on the position of the college student in South America. Davidson described the South American student's position as an inevitab.le product of his. environ- ment. The South Amencan stu- dent looks at college as a prepara- tion for a career, and the career considered in the majority of cases is politics. The stt:de!}ts seek their political roots wh1le m school, hence the student riots and clam- merings of the Latin American countries develop. Because of the widespread oc- currence of these feelings am.ong students student demonstratwns are of c~nsiderable size, and carry great influence with the govern- ment. South American students have more than once boycotted university c 1 asses in pro~est against some governmental pol~cy. These demonstrations and rwts have augmented the unrest of the country, resulting in the ~all • of governments and Communist m- filtration. . . . Lt. General D. Burehinal, Qhief of Staff, Plans and OperatiOns, U.S.A.F., was scheduled· to speak Tuesday morning,, ~ut be~ause of . bad weather condit10ns his plane was unable to land. . ONE DAY SERVICE CAMPUS CLEANERS All Work Done on Premises PICKUP AND DELIVERY 527 Not! St., Schepedady, N. Y. Opp. Union College, Phone EX 3-5472 Moyne College. Union will attempt to continue its winning style in the upcoming Siena and Cortland Tournaments. Patronize Our Advertisers ARE YOU AN ENVELOPE LICKER? A stamp sticker? A letter writer? Most of us aren't.Jhat's why the telephone was invented. A Long Distance call home is so much quicker than writing. Pleasanter:, too ... because you're \home\ for a little while. Try it, tonight. Rates are lower, remember, every evening aftet 6:00 and all day Sunday. Extra low for many calls within New York State after 9:00 p.m. ®New York Telephone The announcement that the stu- dent tax committee has a surplus of approximately $2,000 was im- mediately J;llet with proposals for the use of the balance. Funds may be used for either an intellectual \week or for special programs. The final use of the money will be discussed at a later meeting. Sommer Elected Alfred Sommer was elected to fill the vacant senior class position on the Student Council. It was explained that Sommer vacated his position as editor-in-chief of Concordiensis before taking this position. The proposed measure to require each candidate for the position of Class Officer or Student Council Representatives to state a cam- paign platform in his petition for office was passed unanimously. A . second proposal was carried, re- quiring the number of signatures on election petitions to be raised from 40 to 80. A proposal for a central polling place for school elections was voted down. This proposal was initially conceived as a remedy for \block-voting in which one or two individuals vote for an entire fraternity. Criticism of the measure centered arounli the difficulty in getting everyone to vote in the proposed situation and the relative inefficiency of this procedure. Morrison suggested as an alternative proposal the closer scrutiny of election procedures at Tinu; Ct:nt~.­ Jt;wt;leirs \Your Jeweler Away From Home\ BUY WITH CONFIDENCE BUY WITH CO;NFI'DENCE ~ ; All Keepsake Diamonds are protected against loss from the setting for one full year ••• by the famous Keepsake guaran~ tee certificate. OHLSEN BOYD $225.00 $175.00 Rlngt enlargt;d to •hOw detad. Prices laduda Fe4tfiil.7a•. TIME CENTER JEWELERS 428 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. . ' .Fridqy, March 15, 1963 the polling places by members o:J; \We the undersigned have ap- statements. He noted that any the elections committee. . p1•eciated the teaching, abBity, and ·damage by Union students to the, Bill ·Riffle then proposed that presence of Professor Arthur Dan- RPI campus is to be paid for by the Student Council send the fol-. ese, as an integral part ·of this UI:!iOR College, and in this instance lowing letter to the Board of department.\ \Union College\ means the stu- Trustees: · After considerable discussion dent tax funds. \In order to maintain strong de- the co.uncil voted 15-2 to send the In a finat statement Slcloot ad- partments of engineering and letter to PI,esident Davidson who monished the representatives of sciences, Union College must · represents, ClU'rent college 0pinion the Freshmen class for the poo1· maintain an even stronger De- to the Board of Trustees. attendance tecord at Student of Mathematics. Skloot made several formal Council meetings. After you're married awhile, they say, you begin to look alike. Why wait? , TEt CON'TF Pa: ' Vol. 92- I New Dedi~ By\ President pres~ded W, e: morues off1c1 new WRUC Tuesday, ne elected tiy tll bership and Fox lvfemor presented. Station Pres sohn presentee in wh1ch he t members vf tl ity who made new st].ldios P' pressed his g dustriotis sta1 contributed a time in order cess of the ch Prexy Col Davidson th tory of WR1 first radio sta to featurt:l 1 programming. his belief that tinue to serv' the \high lev tained.\ He E the future w WRUC will b citing things.' On Tuesd WRUC office1 Neuhoff, Pre: well, Vice-PrE Programming Weissman, Mark Thomas Richard Swe• tor. On Tue! annual WRU Sweed receiv Fox Memori given annual man who. co:n the station. Lowe • • For ~ Missed A. F. R. O.T. C.? ' ' J ' I •.. Walter L• Mechanical E ii'·named recii Alumni Com torious Servi Presented \the award if of the Uni<Y administratb made an out to Union. • Born in Lowen gra1 Carolina Sta ors in 194·3,. : •:ter of·· .Scie: neering frorr joined the l During tl . .,mic year, u ence Foundl Fellowship, in mechanic neering at t 'Ill stitute in Z he was Uni, tative and c eign study J £!liberal arts ents. Unde students ar• third and Lowen was e. · .•• establishme: Go A. F.O.T.S! These letters stand for Air Force Officer 1 be open a year or so from now. ''• '.ti',' Training School-a three-month course for , As c:m Air Force officer, you'll be a leader on·, those who realize they want to become the Aerospace Team, servr11g your country Air Force officers, but don't have enough while you get a flying headstart on the·tech- • school time left to enroll in AFROTC. nology of the future. The U.S. Air Force We prefer our officers to start their training sponsors one of the world's most advanced as freshmen, so we can commission them research and development programs- and iw~ directly upon graduation. But right now we're you can be part of it. accepting applications for another fine way If you're within 210 days of· graduation, get · . !. to become an Air Force officer- OTS. We more information on OTS from the Professor can't guarantee that this program will still of Air Science. U.S. Air Force I, ,. ' I Union. Lowen h2 campus and aHe is the 1 to the Int• for the Exc Technical :E , in which \the engine• and senior ing for a J Lowen is 1 f~of Voh,mte Technical P a consulta· Baldwin Lc Ridge Nat the Knolls tory. Lowen is Pi, the nat \!!or society tional sci~: is also a rr: Nuclear E IJ Society of and theM of the Am neering E

1963 any to the for by stu- ad- of pOOl' . J ' II ' •· TENURE CONTR~OVERSY Page 2 Vol. 92 - No •. 2.0 New .Studio f Dedicated By WRUC President Carter Davidson presided Wedne:;;day at cere-· monies officially opening the . new WRUC studios. On Tuesday, · new officers. were elected Py the station's mem- bership and the Dixon :Ryan Fox Memorial Award was presented. Station President Richard J udel- sohn presented a welcome speech in whtch he thanked the various members vf the College commun- . ity who made the transition to the new st11dios possible, He aliso ex- pressed his gratitude to the in- dustrious station members who contributed a great amount of time in order to insure the suc- cess of the ch;J.nge. Prexy Commends Station Founded at Union College 1n 1877 Convocation Au den Features To Give Theologian Lecture· Davidson then reviewed the his- tory of WRUC, which was , the first radio station in the country to feature regularly scheduled programming. .!::Ie also expressed his belief that t):J,~ ~t;J.tion will con- tinue to serve Union College on the \high level which it has at- tained.\ He said, \As we look to the futut•e we can be sure that WRUC will be doing new and ex- citing things.\ · By Anthony Bucca W. H. Auden, acclaimed by On Tuesday, the folloWing • , · b h WRUC officers were elected: Paul Reverend Roland H. Bainton many cnttcs to e t e most gifted Neuhoff, President; Ronald Cro- will deliver the Religious Em- contemporary English poet, will well, Vice-President; Robert Rice, phasis Week Lecture on Menday Tbe fedatured 8 at a PCMonvocation on P · D' t R ld mornt'ng on the Vati'can Counn1'l ues ay at :00 · · in Memm·- . rogrammmg Irec or;. ona ~ · 1 Ch 1 Th · Weissman, Business Manager; ·and its relation to Protestantism. ta · ape· e toptc of the ad- Mark Thomas, Personnel Director; ·Bainton is Professor of Theoiogy dress has not yet been announc- Richard Sweed, Technical Direc- a;t Yale Divinity School and a not- ed. lt will probably include a tor. On Tuesday evening, at the ed auth9r on Luther. reading and perhaps an interpre- annual WRUC Banquet, Richard Specializing in the Refoi·mation tion of some of Auden's own Sweed received the Dixon Ryan and the. life of Martin Luther, woArks. Fox Memorial Award which is Bainton has authorized more than · uden has not confined his lit- , .. g iven ann.·ually tO' the underclass~ nineteen books to date, which erary ta-lents to poetry alone, · 1 0 · but ·has also \'rt'tten a numb There wt'll be no edt'tt'on· of the man who. contributes the most to have sales nearmg ,500> 00. H1s \ er the station. works have been translated into of plays. The most well- Concordiensjs next Friday, be• ten European a 11 d Asiatic lan- known of these are \The Dog Be- cause o fSpring recess, which be- guages. . neath ,~he ~kin,:• and \D~nce of gins the following afternoon at Lowen Cited Perhaps his most widely read Death, wh1le his poetry mcludes 12:30. Publication of the Con- • For Service book was \Here I Stand\ a bi- such notable works as: \Poems\ cordiensis will be resumed the ?g:r;aphy ·of :Mar:tin J::uthe~. Sell- ;;-l9~0;, \~he \ Orato~s\-193~: week following Spring recess. The wg 500,000 copws smce tts pub- Spam -1?37, On Th1s Island first edition after the recess wi~l lication, it won the coveted $7,500 (Contmued on Page 4) appear Friday, April 12. Walter Lowen, Professor of Abingdon- Cokesbm·y Award in __ _;_ __ _;__:_.:.=-=-:::.:=..~~-'----=~=:....:..:.:..:::::~=-====:_:=---- Mechanical Engineering, has been 1950. 0 1 f R • t d It· named recipient of the annual Bainton has been presented . e a p p 0 1 n · e Alumni Council award for Me1'i- honor~ry degrees from a number . torious Service. ·of colleges,. including Meadville Presented at commencement, Theologica.J Seminary, Whitman ., the award is given to a member . and Oberlin Colleg-es, Getty.sburg, . of the Union College faculty or and the University of Marburg. administrative .staff who has the oldest Protestant seminary in made an outstanding contr·ibution Germany. to Union. Bainton, an ordained Congrega- l Born in Cologne, Germany, tional minister :;Jinee 1927, will be Lowen graduated from North on the campus for two days. Be-. Carolina State College with hon- sides the talk at the conv:ocation ors in 194'3,. and obtained his ~as- he will participate in several of •: ter of·· Science in Dies.el Engi:-· Professor Johns.on'-s re' igioJ,l. neering from the same schQol. He classes .. Qn 1Ch45 M-onday h~ will joined the Union faculty in 1947'.' be at Johnson's Religion uf the< During the 1961-1962 acade- United States, and .. at 2;30 ·will· .,mic year, under a. National. Sci- attend a class in Comparati;ve Re- ence Foundation Faculty Sctence ligion. Fellowship, Lowen did researcp. At 4:30 Bainton will meet with in mechanical and nuclear eng1- the History Department and in- neering at the Swiss Federal In- terested students at Hale House · 'Dstitute in Zurich. While abroad for an informal seminar. He will he was Union's official represen- be on hand for Johnson's New tative and observer of a new for- Testament class Tuesday morning eign study program for five year and will lunch with students and . .., liberal arts and engineering stud- faculty in Hale House. Bainton· ents. Under this program these received his B. A. from Whit- students are able to spend their man College in 1914. He took third and foUl'th year abro~d. his B.D. in 1917 from Yale and · Lowen was instrumental in the . then went overseas to serve with •· ·''establishment of this program at the Ameriean Friends unit of the Union. Red Cross. In 1920 he joined the on·· need get 1 · • Lowen has been active ih both faculty at Yale as an Instructor · · · · ' Ch h H' t d · 1921 . · above from left to right are H.l<'h\'\rl campus and community activtttes. m urc IS ory an m · David Crandall, and Ailen Schwartz. nHe is the Faculty Represent~tive received his Ph.D. By 1936 he to the International Association was a Titus Street Professor, a for the Exchange of Students for position that he was to hold until By Martin Jay Technical Experience, a program. his retirement in July of 1962. The Publications Board has re- • rection of Richard Wendover ,)n which the s1,1mmer between . elected Julian Olf Editor-in-Chief which, he maintained, was instru- the engineering student's junior A lecture and demonstration of th~ Idol: Olf stated in a re- mental. in improving the general and senior years is spent work- of a gas laser will be given by cent mterv1ew that he feels the attractiVeness of the publication. ing for a foreign technical firm. Professor M. p, Gibbons and Dr. Idol has greatly improved in the The magazine itself features new Lowen is presently the Director David Dutton of the Institute of past year and that he envisions departments such as the \In This f~of Voh,mteers for Internationa1 f h several projects. Plans include Issue\ section which describes Technical Assistance and has been Opics, University 9 . Roc ester, the introduction of articles fr9m the selections to follow and the a consultant for Alco Products, April 10 • at 4 : 30 P.M., in room members of Unio11's as well as \Editorial\ which aims to exdte Baldwin Locomotive Worli:s, Oak 2 02 of the Physics building. A other schools' faculties-the Rob- intellectual discussion in a variety National Laboratory, and grant to the University of Roches~ erts' interview with Andre Cham- of areas not limited to the world the Atomic Power Labora- ter from the National Science sqn and the Rudolph \Campus' of letters. Olf expressed .appreci- tory. Foundation makes this visit to Hero'' article-and the encourage- ation for the significant increase Lowen is a member of Tau Beta. Union, as well as to several other me!lt of more expository writing in the number of writers who con- Pi, the national engineering bon- colleges, possible. . -the A. K. Schwartz Shake~-: tributed to the Idol for the first 'Jiot· society, and Sigma Xi, the na- The term L-A-SE-R stands for peare essay as well as C. Meyer's time this past year. He felt the tional science honor society. He Light Amplification by Stimulat- article on thE;~ Elliptical Pool Ta- elimination of merely \in-group\ is also a member of the American ed Emission of Radiation. Lasers, ble. Another innovation of the participation resulted from the Nuclear Society, the American because of their unique emission Idol is the increased effort ex- introduction of a personalized and cy Society of Mechanical Engineers, 'process shows promise of .capa~ pencl'ed on the artistic and layout thorough appraisal of each indi- and the Mohawk Hudson Section bilities in the fields of optics and aspects of the magazine. Olf vidual contribution as well as of the American Society of :Bngi- communication heretofore consid- emphasized the competency of his . neering Educators. , ered unattainable. expanded art staff under the di- (Contmued on Page 3) AU DEN PREVIEW Page 3 PRICE 15 CENTS

2 C!Isurnr 0 Publisheli ·Fridays during the school year by the Student Body ot Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na· ttonal Advertising Representative: National Advevtlslng Service, Inc., College I'ublishevs Representative. 4~~ ~Iadison Ave .. N. Y. C. Editorial Officil. ·Old Gym, t:nlon College, Publication Office. Sche- nectady Printing Company, 502 Broad.way. Entered In the Sche- nectady Post Office as Second Class l\laH Matter. Subscription· 15c a ,·upy; $3 a year dellver<\d anywhere in the l:nlted States. SENIOR BOARD DAVID DEREXSO:-.: 'GL ................. DI 6-9895 ..... .Editor in Chief IVE:\>:S LEFI.ORE '64 .................... FR 2-3580 ................................. Business Manager ~~l¥B~~:~~j,~:=;=·=zt·IE~1': iE :: ;=::~:~1Et~lll JUNIOR BOARD Richard Aron '63 _ .................................................................. Associate News Editor ~!ark Obenzingpr • Bo .................................................... Xatlonal Advertising Manager ~ff~ff~~jf: : ~ ~j =:]:~~;~ ; ;; :··~~~~~~~]l~ REPORTER STAFF Andrew Ackar, Brian Bat·efoot, Bill Cohen, Avnold Berkowitz. J. C. Clemens, Fred Dill. Larry McCray, Lawton Morrison. Rick Scharf. Robert Sherwm, Bob Skloot. Pet.,r Susman. Ellsworth Tracey. Mark Strom. Glen Holzhauer, Mark Kasowltz. Rkhard Slfton. Bob Klein. Hank Ruschmeyer, Peter MUsky, Bob Hoffman, Thomas Krehbiel, David Volkman. A Worthy Plan The Student Council should be praised for their pro- posal to sponsor a \scholar in residence\ on the Union College campus. Although still in the preliminary stages, this plan offers a tremendous potential to improve the intellectual and cultural opportunities at Union. The advantages of a scholar in residence are numer- ous. Students would come into contact with him both in the classroom and in informal meetings. Faculty mem- bers would have the opportunity to match wits with an expert in their field. The Lectures and Concerts Program could be planned so that speakers brought onto the campus would have the same general area of interest as the scholar in residence. The now customary discussion ses- sions with visiting lecturers would be sure to improve. The public relations image of Union College, one aspect that seems to interest many people, would also be affected beneficially. One problem that naturally arises with a plan like the one proposed is the financing. The Council has at- tempted to meet this problem by appropriating $2000 to be matched by perhaps a 2-1 grant by the College. This approach is advisable for the first year or two of the scholar in residence program. It effectively serves to indi- cate the students' interest in increasing the cultural and intellectual opportunities of the college. However, if the plan is adopted permanently, it must be financed by the college, either by regular funds or foundation grants. The coll~ge has an obligation toward the students that cannot be avoided. The Student Council sponsored a lecture by Norman Thomas last year as one way of showing their interest in an improved Lectures and Concerts Program. The result has been an increased budget for the Lecture13 and Coll.- certs Committee. The Concoi'diensis hopes that the plan for a scholar in residence will have the same progress. The Vocal Minority The responsible attitude of the Student Council to- ward the scholar in residence plan contrasted sharply with the behavior of certain members of the Council toward desirable changes in Council procedure that were passed at Wednesday's meeting. Almost half-an-hour was taken to haggle over a constitutional objection that seemed ill- grounded at best. Evidently a minority of the Student Council members are more content to hear themselves talk than to attempt any meaningful legislation. We appreciate the importance that must be placed on constitutionality and the right of dil:)sent. A William Borah or Wayne Morse in the United States Senate is con- sidered by many to serve an important function. How- ever, we must also point out that the members of the Student Council are not United States Senators. Their primary responsibiliy is to attempt to represent the views of those students who have elected them. :Perhaps more attention should be .given by some members of the Council toward fulfilling this duty and less attention given toward playin,g the great dissenter. Letters to the Editor The following lette1· was writ- ten to Mr. Edeward Skloot, Presi- dent of the Student Council. Mr. Skloot has been in touch with: Mr. Taylor since his visit to the cam- pus and has submitted this letter to the CONCORDTENS·IS :flor publication: Dear Ed, Thank you very much for send- ing me the material about the student council. I have just re- turned from Fairleigh Dickinson University at Madison, N. J., where the campus has just been in operation for five years, and found that the students there are urging fraternities and sororities on the University, on the grounds that everybody else has them and they want to have them too, in order to be able to be fraternity and .sorority men and women. It used to be that students who were fighting for rights, wanted the rights of equality against the fraternity-sorority system; now, to find a student council fighting to bring such a system aboard is a real sign of the way in which the high schools have developed status consciousness within their student bodies. I discovered that the student council, having failed to persuade the Administration to do what it wants, had formed illegal fra~ ternities, even while, as members of student council, the matter was being considered by the col- lege community as a whole. The whole matter of student involve- ment in college affairs is a tricky one. Unless the students have been educated up to the point that they understand the role of students in making educational policy and sharing responsibility for what happens at the univer- sity, they are not yet ready to become involved in student ac- tion. On the other hand, if they aren't ready, who are the people who are going to educate· them to be ready ? This sort of edu- cation is not coming through the courses, and the extra-curricu- lum is simply left to chance and the social organization body in the fraternity, sorority and dor- mitory structure. Without the education for the students in self-government, they don;t par- ticularly want to govern them- selves. You might be interested in the enclosed research paper on some of these questions. Do stay in touch, and thank you so much for writing. Yours sincerely, Harold Taylor To the Editor of Concordiensis: I cannot help remembering that, in 1955, the year I was ap- plying to Union College for ad- mission, I joined a group of six or seven applicants on the official tour of the campus. I had already been \Union sold,\ as my father (Union '22) and several first cousins had been enthusiastic Union alumni, and to consider applying· to any other good col- lege would have been considered a family crime which could only be paralleled to treason on a na- tional level! The other high school seniors with me ·dn .the tour were not so adequately (subjectively) prepar- ed as I, and they reviewed each building and jui)ged each concept of education the guide pattered about, with unbiased opinion. And the beauty of the College was overwhelming-and now, looking in retrospect, of all col- lege campuses I have seen, not a single one was as clearly planned, as architectually sdund, as quiet- ly proud of its historical heri- tage, as was mine. The guide brol;lght us through Jackson's Gardens. It was spring, the grass was freshly mown, its sweet smell being the only tipoff Ca~npus Orientation The Student Activities Office is looking for any sophomores or five year students in their second or third year interested in the post of Assistant Chairman for Orientation during Orientation Week. He will eventually assume the post of Chairman. that it was nat thick green car- peting; and the only sounds ta be heard were the flutter of a nemby student's notebook pages, the brook that bounds, and one could almost hear a flower petal settling upon the grass. From the Gardens we were guided out past North College, acr0ss the campus to the old li- brary (Nott Memorial). From there we saw the real beauty of the campus. There we saw what was the first architecturally planned campus in America. As the guide told us the stol'y of Union's exciting history, each of the landmarks, the statues, the walks, the buildings instantly became more than their physical selves; they became important pieces of an old and beautiful puzzle. Each of us was compelled to feel that we were standing on historical ground, and somehow that we were a part of the puzzle that just moments ago feH into place. And sudde:aly we all real- ized that it wasn't just a college admission we were after, but an admission to a tradition, to a way of life that could never leave us on graduation, to one of the his- torical landmarks of America which has given its full share to make our Country \top drawer\ ever since its independence. Prodigious \U\ And as we looked from the li- brary last toward that prodigious letter \U\ called Washburn Hall, it suddenly became apparent that this ·ridiculous, almost comical building demanded the same re· spect as a student has for his teacher and his elder; for Wash- burn Hall had withstood tremend- ous architectural criticism, ever sinee it was built. Even before, the blueprints weathered the tug- ging of varying influences and desires (see \Eulogy for a Land- mark\ - Symposium - Winter, 1963). But Washburn Hall was the backbone of Ramee's famous planned campus. Though func- tionally important to the school, Washburn's Hall real significance was that of being the architec- tural keystone of the campus. This glorious introduction to Union was almost nine years ago. Today, even more than then, this proud college campus stands as one of America's famous land- marks. The demolition of Washburn Hall is the disintegration of an ideal-that there are some few chosen places where tradition does not have to yield to mod- erniz;ation , .. that there is room for both ... that pride of a cul- turally famous demise. There can never be another Washburn Hall. As it is broken and forgotten, its eomical style will look beautiful through your melaneholy tears of remember- ing. I know my one voice is useless in .preventing this tragic sacri- fice. But rather let this letter be for the record; for I don't want to tell my son when he is at Union, that I was one of the many alumni who didn't care. Martin A. Silberg '59 The Campus Religious Council will sponsor a clothing drive the week Of April 8-12. The clothing collected in the drive will be dis- tributed to needy students over- seas through the World Univer- sity Service. The clothing .drive is part of the overall charity work of the Campus Chest. As distributing agent for the drive, the World University Serv- ice will see to it that the clothes collected are sent to needy stu- dents · in Europe, Asia, Africa, and Latin America. In existence for over thirty y:ears, this organi- zation is dedkated to the furtner- ing of education on the univer- sity level throughout the world. Briefs Bainton On Monday in Memorial Chapel .at 11:30 a.m. Roland H. Bainton, Church Historian, will lecture. Convocation credit is given. Blood Drive The Blood Drive, sponsored by the Class of '65 will be held in Alumni Gymnasium, 1:00-6:00 on Monday and 10:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. Rickov:er on Tuesday. Ad 1 miral Hhyman R 1 ickSotv~r Wlt·n I. F. c. spea ~ at t e annua emme z The Interfraternity Council will Lecture tonight in Memorial meet in Hale House Student F,hapel.at 8:00 p.m. Lounge at 7:30 p.m., Tuesday. Track Meet Killburn Debate Union vs. Vermont in track, at Station WMHT will feature a Union, on Saturday at 2:00 p.m. debate Tuesday at 8:30 p.nt. be- tween Dr. Patrick Killburn, Pro- Art Exhibit fessor of English, and Dwight On Sunday the art exhibit, Re- MacDonald, a contributor to the cent American Art: Preeisioni~:~t New Yorker Magazine. Painting, will open in Old Chapel, On Wednesday at 8:15p.m. the 4:00-6:00 p.m. Hispanic Society will meet in Rabbi Theodol'e Friedman, Silliman Hall at 8:15 p.m. Congregation Beth El, South Freedom Orange, ~· J. :will .lecture Sunday . Spring RecesS. begins at 12:20 in Memonal Oha;pel at 8:00 p.m. p.m. on Saturday, March 30. Friday, March 22, 1963 Student Awakening: The Tenure Crisis By J. C. Clemens The recent surge of strong feel- ing concerning the faculty tenure incident made a few things very clear. It proved conclusively tk'tt the student body can shake off its shell of apathy whea something important comes along. It indi- cated that the student body is very much interested in the men that teach them and are willing to stand by these men when a seeming injustice is invGlved. Ar.d finally, the incident -proved that i.t is virt1:1al1y impossible to learn the facts about anything when they are imbedded in the puzzling power structure of the college. Considering the fact that we are embarking on a Golden Age, and realizing that student morale (and faeulty morale) is an important component in such a venture, it would be wise for those who hold the reins to examine the recent incident as an example of future difficulties that it wou.ld be wel'l to avoid. Unjust Accusations For many years, the student body has been castigated with the accusation of apathy in important issues. When the l::itudent Councll drafts a letter protesting an in- JUstice at some . other eollege, it is usually met with relative in- difference on the part of the students. Contesting issues on principle often brings this kind of response. But the very different response to the re- cent Moss and Danese affairs in- dicate that where concrete issues are concerned, issues important to the student's learning, apathy seems to disappear. This may well be simply an example of egocen- trism, but it might be considered the next time we start complain~ ing that the football crowds don't cheer loud enough. The student body has chosen an excellent eause in the recent bar- rage of petitions. Concern over the men that guide you through the educational experience is well- placed concern. We have chosen an area which we lmow some- thing about. No one is more qual- ified to speak in favor of an in- structor than those that have en- riched themselves though his help. It is also interesting to note that many who have pro- tested are not simply concerned with justice for the man involved, but with the well-bei:ng of the college in future years. Quite a few have .argued that the release of the two professors in question will cripple the coHege's potential to educate. Whether . these sup- positions are right or not, the fact remains that very altruistic issues are on the block, issues far ex- ceeding the rather bourgoise con- sideration of the professor's sal• ary. Protests m<tde for ideaiistic reasons such as the ones in the current crisis deserve a long and careful hearing. Squelching this display of concern over the good of the college can only result in a telling loss of morale. Enmeshed In Intrigue In the wave of concetn over tenure for Profesl!ors Moss and Danese, many students suddenly realize that reliable information on college ·issues is almost im- possible to get, evep. uno:fficiaUy. ' Any seareh for the facts ;from the usual channels enmeshe~:~ you in an intrigue that would do justice to a Fu Manchu novel. Occasion- ally, someone in power wiLl throw you the breadcrumb Qf a plati- ; tude, but the facts are as elusive as right answers on a History 10 talkathon. It has .been argued whether the student is really en- titled to information of this sort, but a man's job and reputation I seem reason enough for an open and aboveboard statement from the proper people. Getting the facts from your favorite profes- sor, as many did in the last month, is at best limited by the profes- sor's knowledge and feelings, and relying on the campus grapevine is even less reliable. In our search for improvement, we might well consider an alternate system to this modified Mafia intrigue which makes the college seem a mind- less bureaucracy in the eyes of its t students. The loss of morale over this single point in the recent af- fair was staggering. It is doubt- ful whether the trustees and .ad\ ministration realize the full im- pact which the crisis -produced, an ' impact only fractionally expressed in this column. CORRECTION In last week's issue of the Con- cordiensis, a report by the Com- IJ mittee on Faculty, Alumni, Trus- tee, and Student Relations was in- correctly referred to as a letter from the Faculty Council. The re- l. po1't was the first in a series at- te$pting to improve communica- tions between students and the faculty, alumni, and trustees. l) ~ RECORDS OF ~\ COMEDY - JAZZ - CLASSICAL - FOLK AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS Tapes and Diamond Needles Professional Quality and Wholesale Prices APEX MUSIC K·ORNER State St. at Corner of Broadway Phone FR 7-1112 0 Erie Boulevard at Jay Street -}~- Seafoods-Roast Beef-Steaks-Chops SERVING SCHENECTADY FOR 40 YEARS For three Generations ••• Those Who Know. Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER , Mauriue B. Graubart· & Sons 11 Jay Street Jewelers\ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD J LRY Friday, Marcl Mou1 Th.e~ Contrary t Mountebanks spring produc (which may 1 future perfor off a rol:lsing tagleize, ·dire gate and J oh! en another U play-Jack G Wingate t• Wild and WE with the expl• ties of seven structed as a jointed situa sophisticated pointed ollt challenge to gives to the something ne art era wher Because of t' of ·audience plays, any a or stage ther be a dismal version of T The play is p1 -a more in than the reg· Unort! Gelber pre lenge to the 1 of what dra His stories a: ditional Roll; do not make of evening night at the . offer a pov. perience. In 'the C01 off,Broadwa~ . during the i der amongtr tain the mo< waited in tf play trying the theatre. animous in t] orthodox ty: $ion. Wingate choice of ar absurd play years) by s never again these plays in which th ten years th pieces and <r. w01·ks. Win justify the • atre has m: present clas past, to helJ ~ provide ente the student· going on ir The \absur « biggest and World Wa: that our ge1 another mo· If· ; Another the college \Ido (Contin from the i1 • pui;llic~tjoq There ar' Vances whi• large s.egm ~xample Of \i>f an exch: hundred lit universitie~ for the'dua 111 relative lit making k among ac: merit. Th• Advisory I ·~ vation of r ing to ()If of Pro:fes: bury, ~B:isl \'has p1·ovi and critiei material t serving as ,., on betwee-: The thoro· editorial b addition David Cr~ raland RichE ;seen in 0 'a1'ticle w: than seve ll>:released f I ·'· ; Under ;consideral >able liter~ (}icurred an ipus, OI:f :endeavori )get and f ·« 1 jtions. Tf jto enter 'markable •local boo: ! ing colie~ 01 tentative · part of t :tee. In ! cussed v ~of the e I' .arran,ge1 j high scl: . area fo1'

l2, 1963 • ~s te release question potential 1ese sup- ;, the fact :tic issues > far ex- ;oise con- sor's sal- idealistic ~s in the long and hing this the good result in, gue ern over ~oss and s1:1ddenly 'ormation most im- officially. from the s you in lo justice Occasion- riLl throw Friday, March 22, 1963 Mountebanks to Feature Theatre of the Absurd 3 · w. H. Auden: · . 1· · The Verdi Requiem- A Vanishing Appeal .·A Review of the Concert By La;r~y Horowitz By Rodham Tulloss By Asher R. Sheppard Contrary to· expectations, the the character of those who pa·r· Th f W t f.l h A f h h d h Tuesday evening, March 19, was not in good voice and des~'te M t b k . 11 ff th . t' . t . · e case o · ys an ug .u-1 o w o is rea ers were - t ey Edg C .... d t d e th 1 k f 1 · h t · oun e an s WI . o er en· . IClpa e m it. Girdner termed the den in the field of literature is a were not even \moderately identi-' ar UhlS con uc e a p r- e ac o co or m eren m er spring production in Hanna Ha1l, theatre a \sophisticated kinowl- sad and pitiful one. For a poet to fiable.\ formance of the Verdi Requiem voice is capable of a n.1.ore satis- (which may be the site of many edgeable, maturing\ experieRce show enormous promise and then \Today wrote Richard Hog- in Memorial Chapel. The Verdi factory performance. future performances too). Fresh for the young people in it. The produce .poems of cold and pedan-. gart in 1951 , \he has lost also a Requiem is unrelated to the ec- Tenor David Dodds sang well off a rotlsing success with Pan- actors undergo a great deal of. tic mien is nearly tragic. large part of that other audience, clesiastical requiems and masses 1 but it is unfortunate that his vo- tagleize,. directors Gifford Win\ mental anguish before the eight th d' d f of Cherubini, Bach's sacred mass- . 1 cal quality is u. nsuite.d for the gate and John Girdner have chos- weeks of rehearsal a•re 0 ,,.e· r. A.s In his recen.tly released book, e. au Iepc~ rawn rom the 'in- es or .Moz. art's.reverent Requiem. Re.quiem. One needs a lusty oper- h h b ' The Dyer's Hand, Mr. Auden. telhgents1a. Perhaps he would N t k t B th • M D en anot er t eatre of the a· surd Girdner pointed out, the play is h k f h ?r rs 1 a ,m o . ee ovens 1 atlc tenor. · r. ' odd~ has the plawy-:-Jatck Gt. el·berd's tThhe Alpple.\ nlot separdat~tdl· frl~fm ,!ife-\It's a ~~~~~1~~~s~w~tnfn£~:~~y~~f~~~~ pi~; af~t c~~t 1 ;ti~ 0 p;i:tinbbi:t~i~ :~~adt~ao~~~i~ISel~~~~\~ t~~rdl,m~ I rh:eo~·~~!rk;'lU~~~le n;~o~ha;e~p:;~~ .. mga e erme · · e pay, a P ay,-an r s ·1 e. Thus the when reading a poem are two. ammatwn. Many ~f then; are to- ' wild and weird one.\ It deals students must work out their \\he first 1 .s techn.J'cal'·. 'H. ere 1 .s .a d.aY th.oroughly. dJsappom.ted or. non-believet·, wrote his Requiem of the seventeenth and eighteenth 'th th 1 t' f th 'd t' cha t · d 'th h · ~ in memory of the Italian poet and centuries. Wl e exp ora wn o e 1 el! 1-. rae ers m acc0r WI t e1r verbal. contraption. How does it smcerely puzzled<; Auden. seems to t~es of seven people and is con- own perceptions,. and this can be work?' The second· 1 . 8 , I'n the, h.av. e gone so. ur,, depressmgly, re- novelist Alessandro Manzoni, not The bass parts were sung by t · t d k 1 'd i d' a ·h t k l for the glory of the Mass as a Mac Morgan who, after his vo1'ce s. rue e · as a a e1 oscope o \s- ' eavy as . broadest .sense, m·or·a·l·.· 'What k. 1 '.nd 1g10us, forblddmft;lY abstract.\ · ·· · t d 't t' · G lb · · sacred religious experience. cleared, was able to proJ'ect a JOm e st ua Ions. · e er IS a The directors dec 1 'de on wh'ch 1 of guy inhabits this poem 1 What. .At the same. t1me as his aUen- sophl 'stl'·cated· auth r and G' d ti f h d The Verdi Requiem is dramatic, rich, lilting interpretation. He was · · · · 0 ' · ' 11' ner play is .going to .be p· resented, and is his notion of the good life or· a on r.om. lS rea ers, Au den Po 'nted \t th t h t t k 1 and the man wno wrote La Tra- most effective in the Offertorium. 1 · · 0 \ · a e presen s a they cho.ose them with the ava· 1 ·1- the .\'ood place? His notion of ·oo · ~e 1gwn as a major theine Chall ·enge to the di'rectoi'S H \' · f h k H . viata, Aida, and Otell() was equal- One could notice that at times he · · · · · · · · e able acting material in ·mind. One the Evil One? What does he con- 0 .1' IS wor · e appropnated g1 •'ves to the· thea· tre th t t K 1 d' h · h ly capable of exploiting the dra- seemed re01tra:ined by the delibel'- a · ex ra o. f the main cogs . 1 'n the Mounte- ceal from the reader? What does ,It;Hegaar s emp as1s on t e in- somethl .ng nee·ded t su t · 't · d d 1 I' ff · matic potentialities of both the ate tempt Pvofessor Curtis cho.se. · · 0 s am 1 m ·banks machi'\e Robert Skloot, he conceal even from himself'!\ ~vi ua sou. s su e11ng and ar- d n . era v.•hen t 1 · 's' · ·k' •·• 1 t f h H tHack .Moor's vital personality He wishe to break away into a e eY.l Ion IS · mg .. whose portrayal of Pantaglei'ze 'i'his piece, from a speech at Ox- .nya a mt · · e meditated on 11 1 Becaus . e of the loose rel t' h' N b h • · h h and the supplication of man to sti · g1:e. ater yricism but his mu- . · a !OTis l:p • was the hig·hlight of .the fal'l' pr·o- ford, is a prime example 0f the· ;e 1 u: r s concern w1t t e \con- · · d f ·aud'ence 1 a· nd actor · h' fl. t b t f d his God. The crashing, full s0nor- SJCJanship di not betray him. 0 · ·s m JS duction, is making his last ap- almost perverted obsession with·· .c 1 · e ween ree om and neces- plays, any attempt to film them pear th U . St . religion and pedant-moraiit~ '. Sity, and the ex:act nature of sin.\ ities which desigante the Day of or stage them for television must · ance on e mon age m ~ Judgment in the Dies lrae are not be a dismal failure ·(as the film this .production. which typify Auden's writing of! \The Good Place\ sacred in feeling. Verdi and the P f W the last twenty years. H t d th \Ch .· t' 1·· t ht · h d version of The Connection was). ro essors . ingate and Gird- What is the backg·round of this· e a,c~ep,e e 11s tan pr~- 1s ener are caug m t e rama . Curtis Praised a plati- IS elusive 1 ' :istory 10 The play is presented in the round ner haV~i; consistently ·turned out man'! Why is he lamented by suppositl?n and concerne~ \hts of the day, not m any torment of ~a more intimate type setting high quality productions. Their present-day critics of English . pGoetry With ~,he 'ha.zy goal of the the soul, or reverence for the than the regular stage provides. success has been remarkable con- poetry? The answer lies in his ood Place. . Th1s _las~ phrase Judge. In sixteenth century mass- sidering the a:bsElnce of under- . · 1 . · lost whatever satyr1c mtent it es the Dies lrae was chanted by studies. The upcoming produc- Ol'lgma promtse as on~ of the, O!lce may of had; it thus typifies the choruses and priests. Verdi tion promises to be one of the great poets. of our cel!tmy. ' h1s most recent production. thunders forth with exciting, even very best. In 1l:!30, ~uden published foems; Among the aspects of Chris- titillating, masses of sound from Unorthodox Tactics Professol' Curtis d e s e r v e s praise 011 at least two accounts. Before the pei'formance began one had to pra1se his .courage in at- tempting the difficulties of the Verdi Requiem within the limi- tations of the musical forces available and within the restrict- ed rehearsal schedules. After the performance one had to praise the fine control he maintained over the chorus and urchestra and the evenness of pis interpretation. He has developed the Albany Sym- phony Orchestra into a respon- sive musical body which can be relied upon for confident attacks and sure intonation. One no long- er need wince in advance of solo sections for strings or horns. Pro- fessor Curtis was particularly ef- fective in bringing out the excit- ing l'hythms of the Requiem, par- ticularly in the Dies !rae. His tempi were deliberate, even slow, but had he allowed soloists Mac Morgan and Carol Randles to set the tempo I am not sure that the chorus could have maintained it. 1 argued· ·eaily en- this sort, eputation an open ent from Gting the e profes- st month, e profes- ~; ings, and ~apevine •Ur search ight well ystem to ;ue which a mind- yes of its . 1 •rale over ·ecent af- is doubt- : and ad~ full im- duced, an '· ~xpressed the Con- the Com- tJ mi, Trus- tS was in- a letter l. The re-a leries at- . Gelber presents a major chal- lenge to the traditional definitions of what drama should embrace. His stories are not told in the tra- ditional Hollywood way. His plays F'ti8iJshmen Da-:.1 do not make for the same kind· 1 t;:- ell 4 \ of evening entertainment as a· night at the movies, but they do. J. F. K H'k offer a powerful theatrical ex- • • • t e perience. In The Connection, as presented · (Taken from the Colby Echo) off\Broadway the actors came out during the intermission to wan- Eight intrepid freshmen left der among the audience and main-' Colby for a fifty mile hike to tain the mood of the play. They Bowdoin Saturday, Feb· 23, led v.;aited in the streets before the by Alan Assaf and Elwyn Dou- play trying to lure people into bleday, seven out of the eight the theatre. The critics were un- walked well over fifty miles, some animous in their praise of this un- going a distance of fifty-seven orthodox type of theatre excur- miles to Bowdoin itself. The ilion. . eighth member exhausted himself Wingate tried to justify the early in the walk by wearing choice of another theatre of the' overshoes, although he did go absurd play ( 4 in the last few. thilty miles. years) by saying that he would. never again be able to present . Though they set no time rec- these plays in the same climate · ords-twenty hou,rs elapsed time, in which they were written. In sixteen walking~the- group may ten years they would be historical have gone on the coldest hike. pieces and not contemporary They were later told that the f. works. Wingate has no need to temperature in Waterville at 4:30 justify the choice. A college the- Saturday morning, when they left, atre has many obligations. - to -was twenty-two below zero. At present classics and plays of the seven o'clock in Vassalboro, the • past, to help new playwrights, to thermometer was still down to ·provide entertainment and to keep seventeen below. the student body abreas.t of what's and was hailed as. an expe~Imel!'t-. tianity he. accepted and sermon- chorus and orchestra at triple ~rand fr~sh ne\:\ mtellect m ~rit-. ized upon was the belief that forte. The Sanctus, praising the ts!l P?eti~.. Hls poems mixed· \Man is a fallen creature with a glory of Go<;!, is to Verdi the oc- Emste!~, l! teud, street slang, a?Jd natural bias to do evil·\ casion for open, happy, tripping s1um d1alect. Through the 'th1r- ' hyth h' h 1 'th ties, Auden experimented !n'oadly \Men are not innoeent as beasts r ms w IC ran . a ong WI widening the path blazed b'Y Ezra. and never can be, joyful momentum. Pound, '1'. S. Eliot, Wilfr$d Owen, Man can improve himself but and others. He assimil~:l;ed bits never will be perfect, •.. \ of the styles of his c6;ntemp 0 - On the conflict of necessity and raries and immediate pr~fdecessors freedom: such as D. H. Lawrende. Critics \Our only choice lies between p1·aised his lyJ:icism and hoped an e:xternal and false necessity that he would use this gift to the passJVely accepted and an inter- utmost. He was criticized most' nal necessity consciously decided for his use of \undigested gdh~ · but that is the difference betwee~ bets of knowledge.\ lri othe± slavery and freedom.\ words, it was said that he wrote There exist no more recent crit- for a tiny clique of intellectuals icisms in the Schaffer Library; who .could understand his obscure but the most recent hook of Au- references. den's poetry,. H()mage to Clio, il- \i\iaps and Chaps\ lustrates my contention that Au- den has continued down the path of pedantism ahnost to the point of sterility. For example, is this poetry? \No Virgil, no: \What strikes one most,\ says Frances Scarfe in her book .Auden and After, \is his. emphasis on psychology and ,politics/' Auden himself says that he wrote;! about \maps and chaps\ in a style Behind your nirse· so master- whieh showed his concern with fully made the chains and prisons that man We hear the weeping of a buil:ds himself with reason. In Muse betrayed.\ this aspect he owes much to the . eighteenth .century romantic poet, And again: William Blake. His interest in psychology led \Guilt C\l.lture, we behave Auden to discuss political events like our fathers ••• \ Soloists Perform Under Professor Curtis's direc- tion the Albany Symphony Or- chestra, Union College Glee Club, Skidmore College Chorus and the four soloists were able to display the excitement of the Requiem with varying success. Soloists Carol Randles, mezzo- soprano, and Mac Morgan, !>ass, clearly entered into the spirit of the Requiem more than sop~·ano Ruth Lakeway and tenor David Dodds. Miss Randles was partic- ularly effective in the Liber Scrip- tus, Quid Sum Miser and Rex Tremendae. Above moderate vol- umes her voice was full, well pro- jected and effective. At low vol- umes she was not able to project so well and her tone was edgy. But, at all times she sang with the intensity and involvement that made her performance the most moving of the evening. Two Choruses Sing The double choruses were excit- ing singing from opposite sides of the Chapel. Campus stereo fans were duly impressed with the \separation:\ Messers Robert Campbell and Hoyt In.v.in deserve credit for the sureness with which the chorus· entered and fo1' their excellent pitch even. when singing a capella. All was not perfection though. No particular tonal quality can be ascribed to their coarse sound. Nor could one praise their tutored reading in the final Libera Me. going on in the dramatic world. The whole day was ruined for The \absurd\ movement is the one of the group when, having l) · c: biggest and most important since arrived at Brunswick completely ===~ World War II. Wingate feels exhausted, he dropped two Alka- that our generation will never see Se.tzers into a glass and nothing !'mother movement like i.t. . l happened. \The day is al.together \ Another important function of wasted; even Alka-Seltzer doesn't nmunica- and the :tees. in Freudian terminology. In \Spa1n he explains the social Except for the admirable vari- umest in terms of superstition ety in form of the verses, Aud- and a \father-fixation.\ The tone en's latest have lost the charm on the whole is that of a preacher of the earlier politico-psycholcgi- attempting to reiorm a group of cal poems. The wit that once Miss Lakeway hardly express- ed the full-voiced lyric qualities her part offers. Her voice was too small to balance Miss Randles's full sound.. Singing against the background of the other soloists or the orchestra, as in the Lach- rymosa, Offertorium or the Libera Me, she was pointedly unable to deliver the sheer volume of sound that was expected. Miss Lakeway also experienced difficulty in es- tablishing her tone, most notably in the final Libera Me where her singing of the \Tremens factus\ was inad~uate. Miss Lakeway But, do not be deceived: the College Community was offered a good, listenable and fully en- joyable performance. Those for whom this performance was <tn introduction to the Verdi Requiem will surely wish to hear it again. ll rOLK J) ~R 7-1112 0 ~ <VJ fl) aops t!J I .,. ~LTER , lRS • \ LRY the college theatre is dE,!veloping fizz.\ . . • · gently delinquent children. flashed is throttled: A final criticism of his early \A Young Person came out work is that it shows a lack of of the mists who had the · sympathy. In \Miss Gee,\ Au- most beautiful wrists: \' 0 • den's title character grows a fatal A scandal occurred (Continued from. Page 1) · ing the Idol and leading talks on cancer to make up fot· the child which has long· been interred fro th .. d t t f th the problems of produCing a lit- she never had. Auden laughs and But the legend about them per- ~Ri@ll. HitHit!!EII\J1@'!!1§!J!IDill~~illillll~ll!illll!li . m. ~ Improve .. s a us o . · e erary publication invites the reader to laugh, but sists.\ ~ \\ • pu\.lhc!ltlon on campus. A th' d · t d d f this sort of humor was out of Sh s • lru There are also several Idol ~QL. th. ld ir· f~OJ{}Cteb.l'ehn eavtorf. 0 style in the Hitler-worried 'thir- The sadi~tiG la. ughte. r .of \Missli) \\'. - ... a __ ·v·e·r er.· v·tft'. e I_· vances w. hich .are not known ti> a. e t to IS et estha 1 h 5 . Ihnen ho la t1'es Aga1'n . m· .\the Ba·l.lad- of ~\\' \. I 1 · · con es open o e 1g sc oo s · • Gee\ is by far preferrable to this ' arge ;;egment. of the cani.·p·us. An .....• ,. f. th t · 't' . . · t d 'd John Honeyman\ Auden describes · e l 0f tl . th . 't' e 0 . e n~cl Ies area 0 eel e . ' piece of trivia. Something has ~ ... xamp e · ·. 1ese 1s e m~ 1a wn the b t ho t t y d a man who is obliged to sell an happened to make a man of great Repairs & Sales on .~ ... of an excb:;;>nge program with one es 8 r 8 or • poem, an 1 · · · h h · t d t 1ru ,~ h d d l'b ·. 1 . t 11 d expository piece of writin<>' pro- exp !JS!Ve e as mven .e o a intellect and promise turn to a ~ [;) un re 1 era ar s co eges an d d • th 1 1 \' •t foreign power The foreign pow- nearly frigid versifier. Is this a ~ all makes of 1ru ~nivers_ities acros_s. the coun~ry Wu~e m 'lle boca bli~ohmldnu~u Y· er then drops 'their bombs on him stage in Auden's development, as ifii li£ ior th. e du.al purpose of comparmg · · m1;1ers w~ e pu s e. 1 ~ a and hi's fam1'ly. Aga1'n A.uden iJ ~- speclal sect1on of the 1964 Snr1ng the mor. e optimistic critics be- Electric Shavers t~~relatlve literary achievement and · \ 1 · h · h t f ~Idol Prontotion ~ONE DAY SERVICE CAMPUS CLEANERS All Work Done on Premises PICKUP AND DELIVERY 527 Nott St., Schenectacly, N. Y, Opp. Union Col111ge Phone EX 3-5472 making known Union's place ·issue of. t~e magazine and will be a 1 ug ~; agam e was ou. o lieve? I think not; it has been I gJ · accompanied by n monetary P ace. sending out its roots into Auden's . ~~ among academic institutions of· \ B 1939 A d ' l't' l - \' \ . Th · . 1 award Y ' u ens po 1 lea pes mind and imagination for two :It Phone rR 4-97 41 ~1 JO.-.L ... _ • Ad~~t. Be credat~on of tah Fa~u ty ·\Maps and Chaps\ simism. had convinced him of the decades. It would certainly be a ll ~:i fr'LtuuJ.fll:J () 11 • 1sory oar 1~ ano er mno- impending war; and he emigrated painful and quite possibly an im- )g! 724 V2 STATE STREET ~ . · ~ · - yat10n o~ recent vmtage. A'?co;d- In addition to the special issue to the United States to escape the possible task to remove this pe- '\' [!;] 1 lt::t A J .• ,. a. t: •·~ .,_ • mg to Olf, the b?ard, cons1stmg devoted to Taylor Lewis' transla- \mess\ that England and Eui'ope dantic growth. · ~ ;~ V~ CALUJX/~1.4 of Professors Niemeyer, Brad- tion of Plato's Thaetetus, the edi- had made of their affairs in the Now, if Auden is to be con- :;=~==~=iffi=iru=~:::~::: 1 =1lliill:::~\=li£:::~:::ll:::'lill:::ll:::lill:::g]:::iilrnl:::~t:::lill::: 1 ':::lru:::lill:::[g::_'_' ___ . -<~, :...' ---------- bury, :Hi~lop; Nelson, and Gado, tor of the Idol hopes in the near. thirties and for reasons more sidered an influential poet of our \has P~~v~ded . invaluable ~dvice future to publish an issue con- closely connected with his a1't. century, and I think that he is, and cntlc1sm m the selectiOn of taining the best poetry written Auden felt that the artist re- his earlier works must be cort- mat~rial to 'J?Ublish · as . wel~ !\S at the college since 1910 with quired complete .anonymity. For sidered the basis of th~ argu- servmg as a highly effective ba1s- back issues of the Idol and other this reason, he broke away from ment. The sparkling wit and _..on betwee~. students, and faculty. student publications serving as the \European literary happy satire of the Auden of the 'thir- The thoroughness o;f tlu~ student sources. In connection with this family\ and isolated himself in ties has never been · surpassed. edit!J~ial board which. incl!«des,, in p1·oject and ~o facilitate work in the \vast anonymous metroland\ The lucid and valid commentary add1~10n to the E)ditOJ:~m-<)luef, the regular Issues of the maga- of New York. The aloneness in on politics can only be found now ,.David .Crandall, Allen Se}lwartz, zine, Michael Baker has been add- America and the lack of literary in his criticisms; but Auden is ll};and ~rchar~ W end<?Vel\ m~y . l;je ed to the editorial board as Poeti·y or even social roots was the at- not a critic. He is a poet and ,see!! m Olf s assert10n that each. Editor. mosphere Auden felt he needed in he has wandered. al'hcle was proof-read no Iess · Olf finished the interview by order not to forget \aloneness is No matter what one's personal :than seven times before it was st~ng that he hoped ~'the Idol inan's real condition.\ opinion is the convocation on the lli?'~leased for publication. wo\Ukl become one of the finest But emigration upset the bai- ninth of April should be one of : · tinder the assumption that a and most div~rsified college lit- ance between the poet and his the educational events of the year. ~considerable amount of commend-· erary quarterlies.\ readers. He was no longe1· sure on the Union ca 111 pus. iable literary achievement h!',t.s oc-. f:!1Curred . and is occurring on cam- 'pus, Off stated that the Idol is ;endeavoring to increase its bud- ig.et and further expand its opera- «1(twns. The magazine. will attempt 1 to enter the community as a ! markable product to be sold on • ~ocal b 0 okstancls and in neighbo1·· 1 mg colleges. This action remains 01 tentative PElnding action on the 1 part of the Student Tax: Commit- · 1 tee. In a program already dis- : cussed with the dean, members .for the finest: in custom clothin~ and furnishings (lf. of the editorial board will make f' .arrangements to visit selected j high schools in the Schen~:~ctady . area fo1• the purpose of introduc- 14. E. 44otL. St. • New YCJtk 17,. N.Y. Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializli1g in Italian • American food Discount for Union Students 20c on the doHar PIZZA Free Parking 111 S Barrett St. £XCLUSIV·£ UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT UNION INN-517 Union St. ~ • • • BUT NOT EXPENSfVE SWEATERS POLISHED COTIONS IVY SLACKS CAMPUS OUTER WEAR ADLER SOCKS Exc;lusive r· - .

4 Friday, March 22, 1963 . Friday, Maret Fl .nk Unt·verst·ty·J·ute n. ightly comedy program \The Steve Allen Show,\ the new T 1 school boasts an enrollment of 48 Opens Doors · 0 stt,tdents a~d new .applications are All Applicants (Taken from the North Carolina \Tar Heel\) A new institution of higher madness has sprung up on the campus of HamHn t'niversity in St. Paul, Minnesota. Called \Fink University,\ and devoted tu the principles express- ed by Steve Allen on the 30-min- haskell the Schaefer bear bemg· recetved dmly. \Our school is already distin- guishing itself in many areas,\ says Ron Speed, editer of the \Fink Scrapbook\ and the uni- versity newspaper, \The Rat Fink Hemld.\ \Just recently we won the :fern Bowl Game with Kreel U, and we now strongly feel that our rousing cheer 'S-B-F -8-B-F Sis- Boom-Fink' will lead us to vic- tory ovet· any adversary. And eur Fink Scrapbook, compiled by Sit back atid relax with ice-cold Schaefer beer. It's the one beer to have when you're having more than one. the Fink Historical Society, is bursting with litel'al'Y pl'Dmise.\ Steve Allen, who now wears the Fink University sweatshht · given him by the students ef St. Paul, where Steve participated in the St. Paul Winter Carnival, has asked that all those intel'- ested in forming their own Fink Campus contact him at the Steve Allen Playhouse, 1'228 N. Vine Street, Hollywood 28, Califomia for an .official charter. Cinema Review: Da'Vid and Lisa s. c. • • • (Continued from Page 1} report on the past Winter Week- end were heard. Freshman class By Douglass Allen president Jack Seifert reported to the Council that a :profit some- D'avid and Lisa is probably the showsher two personalities united where around $500 \~as recorded most deeply moving U. S. movie in a. single \me.\ David and Lisa for the weekend. After taxes and to come to Schenectady this school' begjn to desire to be in the com· interest to the Student Coundl the year. lt is based on a case his- • pany of one another. Lisa is jeal- Freshman Class registered a ,pro~t tory written by Dr. Theodore ous whell David is with others. of more than,,,)$200. 'J,'he Weekend 'It is anticipated that in the future Ivy halls across the coun- try will res<mnd with that pro• found motto: \Don't be a high school dropout- Be a Fink!\ Isaac Rubin and was filmed in Studies Committee presented a re- Philadelphia for less than. $20.0,- Tender Scene port which Rtressed the possibility 000. The screenplay is by Elinore The gr0up of aqolescents take • (if higher ticket prices in the fu- Perry and her husband, Frank a trip to an art museum :where ture to improve entertainment. Perry, directs the film which de- Lisa, left to herself for a mom- scribes the problems of two dis- .ent, climbs up and lovingly hugs Change Procedure . turbed adolescents, Li13a (Janet a statue of a man and woman- Margolin) and David (Keir Dul- one of the tenderest scenes ever Iea). The acting is by unknovms 'portrayed on the screen. She is and is excellent. s 'owly finding out what she is~a David is a seventeen year-old- 'person, \a girl, a pearl .of a girl\ boy, very intelligent a11d psycho- as David says to her while they tic. He lives in mmbid fear that · a1'e playing outside the school. someone may touch him \because One night, in bed Lisa notices her a touch can kiW' and is horl'ified slender arms and the softness of by dirt and death. He hates sports her face and breasts. David too and psychiatrists and tru13ts no shows increasing sense of iden- one. Lisa is a beautiful fifteen- tity. The reoccuring nightmar.es year-old girl with gentle brown he has of a giant clock whose eyes, dark shining hair. 'She is sharp hands cut off the heads of schizophenic. Witliin her are two his friends and enemies is one personalities: Lisa who will talk night a different dream. The hand only in childish rhymes and Mur- of the clock, which he mampu- iel who can't talk, but cemmuni- lates, stops Just betore 1t gets to cates in writing. Lisa. '!'he dreams that ·he· bas· manuf4!ctured and that have uJ.- Unrelating ways shewn hosti:lity ahd hat~·et. The Council removed from the table and passed .:;~.. motion by Lawton Morrison to change the procedure for introducing mo- tions. Under the new procedure all proposals, except th0se of an emeFgency nature, must be sub- mitted t0 the Council in mimeo- graphed form. They are then dis• cussed and automatically tabled \ until the next meeti·ng where they may be acted upon under Old Business. An objection to the constitu- tionality ·of Morrison's motion was ruled out of order by the Council. Both these adolescents are change as his :personality aoes, u~ afraid to relate to others and the he is more ab!e to .accep.t him::;eh • world which have so cruelly and others. And as Dav1d f€els ~ · h 'd b h ch~nge in Lisa, so the depth o1 Skloot announced that no action has been taken by the President on the student petition to .keep Professo.r Danese. lt was also an- nounced that Mr. Pearson, who missed his discussion on admis- sions, wo1;1:ld try to make other ar- o rangements. A g.uest speaker at the Council was a Red Gross rep- resentative who spoke about the upcoming blood drive. ma1med t em. Davl is roug t love for her increases, and this to the boarding school for dis- l' h · turbed adolescents by his mother rea lZes a new c ange in him. who has \done everything I could Responsible For Tragedy for David.\ He shows insight During the movie several very Auden .. • and intelligence, and quickly un· important characters appear. They derstands much of the other pa· al'e main characters, but because tients' disorders even though he they are in m~ny ways responsi- (Conthmed from Page 1) can not accept or understand his ble :for the huptan tragedy ·that own obsessive-compulsive behav- d?-ilY occ'llrs in homes for the dis- -1937, \Selected Poems\-1938 ior. Only as he begins to trust turbed, most of which are not in- \The Oxford Book of Light others, the ever-devoted psychia- stitutions. At the train station, Verse,\ and \The Shrield of Aeh- ~ •. trist (Howard DaSilva) and Lisa, the day the group visited the art illes.\ does his prognosis seem hopeful. museum, a man yells at the group The source of inspiration for Lisa jumps around singing of adolescents, \you screwballs, much of Auden's poetry has been rhymes like a beautiful little imp, you'er ruining this place.\ He is the writing of T. S. ~liot. Al- but behind her pretty face is a one of s€vera! people in this film, though · Auden's poems are not 1 mind torn and split by fear and wllo show lack of understanding· similar to Eliot's in every respect, irresolution. Gentl;y and patiently David's mother is another. She they more closely resemble them the psychiatrist who worl<s with wants him to live so that she may than those of any other poet. her tries to help her relate to her- be proud of him-to go to P:rince- · Auden, who visited. Union Col- self-\you are Lisa, a girl.\ Grad- ton, to be successful. But she lege ten years ago, was educated ually she does, aJ;J.d <luring this never allows David to be himself. a.t Freshhams School and Christ period, she meets David. She considers only her own hap-· Church Oxford, both in England. . pines~;; and manipul~tes David as· He has been the .recipient of nu- \Me the Same\ . hEt do~.s the hand .of the cloek in merous Iitei;ary awards including, \ They begin their neurotic rela- his drea~. The combination of a the Rollingen Prize fPl' poetry, tionship when Lisa one days says smothering mother, passive fath- · the Alexander · Droutsky Memor- to David, \Me the same; Lisa the er, as his father is, are conducive ial Award, a Guggenheim Re- n'ame.\ David shyly returns, \Me to David's psychosis. Psycholo- search Fellowship, and the Guin- » the same; David the name.\ psts call this the 'silver chord ness Award for poetry. Re was Though their relationship is based ~yndrome' when the mother over- a Professor ·of Poetry at the Uni- on trust, it is only the small awes and controls son and hus- versity of Oxford from 1956-1961 amoWit of trust that the two band, 'as she does in the film. She and was named Honorary Presi- , frightened and sick children are ~ccomplishes this under a cloak dent of the Associated Societies ' capable of. David must speak to of sohcitous love .. Poor David is of Edinburgh University. Lisa in rhymes. Lisa must not the result. touch David. There is always the We see nothing of Lisa\s en- fear of deviation from this :pat- vil·omnent except at the \home!' tern which would send David mto The film says though, if we will a state of shock and feeling that listen, that Davids and Lisas don't Lisa wants to kill him; that would just happen. We make them that cause Lisa to become Muriel. way through our own ignorance, In 22 of the 32 countries wb.ose needy get U.S. .farm foods ) ments are helping by paying all . As their psychotherapy con- our own uncontrolled fears. The tinues, their fear dimishes and is film luckly does not preach so replaced by greater understand- diredly as do these last para- ing and trust: David talks to the graphs. It is a wonderful and doctor. Lisa draws a picture that tender Midtown Barber Shop 51 S UNION STREET (Next to Union Inn) Specializing in Res.tyfing of Hairdos Each head is given personal care Michael Roth's presents this Weekend J. J. JOHNSON JAZZ QUARTET -The # 1 trombonist in the world -Just split off from Miles Davis Qnd formed his own group. FRIDAY and SATURDAY- 9 P.M.- 3 A.M. SUNDAY ----------·---TP.M.-1 A.M. GENE RODGERS .. Jazz Trio Nightly 9 P.M. - 3 A.M. or part of the delivery costs. Americans give funds for the ,·est, by contributing to CARE's lll ti'ood Crusade. ECKERT $35;00 29.75 TIME CENTER ·•· ... ., I ) CALL FOR RESERVATIONS 1617 UNION STREET JEWELERS 428 State St. .,, SCHAeFER BReWERIES, NEW YORK and AlllANY,.N, Y., CLEVELAND, OHIO Schenectady,~· Y. 1\ • Base Law Danny Nich season, will season. Dan a big glove: With ball pract: into full g, veteran U prove on i1 Coach La· the vast tur feels that t: keen for 11 berths. Hi~ ises to be st1 mores, inclu Croekes, B: Baldassai'O, Chuck Espc year's squa< ·. ga and Ari candidates plate. The dation retUJ Williams a Cl captain Da1 The gradu~ te1·man Jo. vacancy at c ably :be fill Fike. The with. Crook iron :ace 13 being .gjxeJ ~ ~ Top fiigl Cray and probably b pastures tl • of standou opening a1 Leading c~ sophomore •· son,.·,Marsl will prob: when off t] Opposin1 their wod • silencing spring. L€ ing McGra and Espos <~ age men J the Lawr4 potential lineup to runs. • All in : \Yo Bl HEI Te 0 N4 cO Prove BILL 0 Mil G

1963 1} Week- class orted to some- xes and the a profit are- the fu- l the by the mo- ocedure of .an be sub- mimeo- dis- tabled they er Old was action o keep an- who admis- her ar- at ss rep- the 1) Light Ach- on for been Al- re not i' them Col- Christ of nu- luding, \ poetry, Re- Guin- 11 was Uni- Presi- ,, whose foods ]) all cdsts. the (II • ' . $35.00 29.75 .. • ·•· t I I •' • 5 Friday, March 22, 1963 Baseballers Working; Lawrence Optintistic Netmen Begin Indoor Practice VarsitymFrosh Experience Is High Point Track Combo For :Stickmen This Season Show Well • The 1963 tennis team has been working out under the auspices of Coach Carl Witzel in the gym- By Oan wells nasium for the past two weeks • The team is bolstered by the The reopective track teams of return of fom· lettermen from last Union, RPI, and Hamilton col- year's 7-!J squad. Captain Pat leges clashed last Saturday in a . Dugan returns to defend his nuro- practice meet at Union's Memm·- ber one position of ·last year,· ial Fie!ld House. The Engineers while Jack Rowell should move from HPI just edged Union in up from his number five posi- total points Juring a meet which tion. Paul Lesser .and Ed Wa·llace offered thrt•e .track mentors a split the number six position,. with chance to observe fi'eshmen hope- Wallace getting the edge in dou- · fuls in actual competition. Union bles, playi.ng on the number two and RPI each finished with five doubles team of last year. Dugan victories in the twelve events. and Rowell formed the nwnber Lus~ig Cops 600 one doubles team· The fortunes of the team lie, The meet was spiced with many however, with the sophomores on pleasant surprises for Coa<:h Wil- . this year's team. They compiled ford Ketz: long-legged Toby Lus- a 7-1 record last season. Brian. tig copped the laurels in the 600 . Barefoot, SeviHe Sim(}nds, and yard dash after on'ly two weeks Pete Walker, numbers one, two, .of work (Lustig's fine perform- .. : and three respectively, could very ance would have placed him fourth · well move into the first four or . in the state meet); Stu Kelley five on the team. Bob pole vaulted cleanly at 1~ feet' Stu Morse, and Bob Bullard also to best a field of six in vaulting may help. competition; and the varsity relay Jeff Fulmer and Phil Buckley team snapped the tape in the fine head the list of reserves from last time of 3 = 43 ·6. I year's varsity and could possibly Coach Ketz had special praise mo:ve into the lineup by the time for shotputters Woodell, Morri- the season starts. son, Minor, and Hausler who Pete Wenger (center) of gridir'on fame, is one of the rugged veteran The team opens its season on swept the first four places in defensemen who will be performing for Gamet this spring under Danny Nicholas, the Garnet second baseman and captain for the '63 season 1 will be an important link in the team~s hopes for a successful season. Danny led the Lawrencemen in hitting last season and carried a big glove around the keystone sack. April 17 , against an always that order. In Ketz's words these I . 1 . men are the \finest group of Coach Allison. His rugged fearless P ay WI l agam be a great asset strong Trinity squad. Trinity de- feated Union easily last yeru: and shotputters since I've been here.\ to th.e squad. will be favored this spring, es- Ketz Enthusiastic pecially with the team untested· With the season's opener less than a month away, base- ball practices in Memorial Field House have now swung into full gear. Under the tutelage of Coach Art Lawrence, veteran Union ment()r, the varsity squad is looking to im- prove on its disappointin.g4-10record of the 1962 campaign. Aft T · 't th d ·n Due to the fine showing of · er l.'lTil Y e squa wt frosh Woodell and Morrison and Hartwick (April 18), Harpur tl f hm 1 t (1 t ) s (A ·1 24) 1e res an re ay earn s (April 20 • y])acuse prt ' p.ace), Coach Ketz is very op- Drew (April 25)' Stevens (April timistic over the potential of fu- 27), Middlebury (May 2)' Roches- ture Garnet track teams. Wood- ter (May 4)' RPI (May 8), Ho- ell and Morrison, putting in the bart (May 11), Vermont (May vicinity of 46' 2\ are already Coach Lawrence is pleased with the vast turnout for the team, feels that the competition will. be Compete 15), Hamilton (May 18). approaching the Field House rec- ord and might very well break keen for many of the startmg berths. His pitching staff prom- E ises to be strong with several soph- aSter fi S Del Shofner, ace pass receiver mores, including Gary Brown, Rick for the New York Professional li Crookes, Bruce Fike, and Larry From March 14th to 16th six Footb!!-11 Giants, will appear on Baldassare, backing up senior swimmers from Union College the Union College campus next Chuck Esposito, workhorse of last competed in the Eastern Colleg- Thursday afternoon. Shofner, all· year's squad. Veterans Jack Sbre- iate Swimming Championships, pro end for 1963, will review some ga and Art Frigo lead a host of held at Princeton University. of the highlights of the Giant candidates for duty behind the Union's sextet, who cemposed grid season as well as present plate. The infield ha;s a solid foun- the backbone of this year's varsity films of the Giant-Green Bay dation returning with fiery George squad, was composed of Kal Packer title game held last De- Williams at third base and team Schneider, WiH Grant, John Boles, cember at Yankee Stadium. ll captain Danny Nichol'as ~t second. Dick Beane, Bill Schauer, and The program, to be held at 4:30 The gradu~t:tion of three year let- Fletcher Espenschied. Although P.M. in E.E· 22, is open to the termap Johnny Pelton leaves ~ the mermen were unable to quali- ... t h t h . h 'll b entire student buuy. vacancy a s or , w lC W1 pro - fy for any of the final events, c ably .. be filled by either Brown or three varsity records were broken. Shofner, who spoke recently at Fike: The #1 sack is wide op~n, B'll 8 h N' k f a Schenectady sports banquet, has with,Crookes, Marshall, and gr1d- l· c auer, ls ayuna ree- made quite a name for himself iron ace Brendan Hutchinson ali styler, lowered his own 200 yd. on the lecture trail, combining being. \'i'l\en a shot. freestyle record another notch to a thorough knowledge of big time 1 ~ 1:53.2. Kal Schneider, now re- . Top ft'i'glrC returnees L';trry M_!!- covered from a knee injury which football with a slow southern C Y ·nd A·be Teronen1ng mil dr·awl that never fails to enter- ra a ·r hampered his efforts at the state P b bl \ be roamt'ng the outfield ta1'n h1's aud1'ence. All gridiron ro a \ · meet in .Syracu.§_ji, chopped his in- pastures this spring, but the loss dividual medle~:record to Z:l 7.7. buffs should make it a point to • of standout Mike Serna leaves an In the 400 yd-\ freestyle relay take in the presentation. opening at the centerfield these two record setters combined I r;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;.;.;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ Leading candidates there ul'o<uu\' 1 with Boles and Espenschied to es- sophomore Rick Erdoes, 4 •· son . Marshall, and Esposito,. tablish a new record of 3:2 .6. it in future years. The perform- ance of the frosh relay team left nothing to be desired as they sped to a finish some fourteen seconds ahead of their RPI op- ponents. Although Union finds itself ra- ther weak in the two-mile run and thin in the hurdles, the team as a whole seems to be in very good shape. The final test for this 1963 track team will be at the University of Vermont to- morrow. Baseball Coach Art Lawrence has announced that all freshmen candidates for the position of manager on the baseball team are urged to get in touch with him as soon as possible. Profes- sor Lawrence can be reached either at his office in the gym or at the fieldhouse during prac- tice sessions. Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. Expet•ience, an essential ele-· and Pete Fuhrer, two more exper- ment for success in lacrosse, is a, ienced middies. Many of the strong point in Union's favor this· members of last season's fl·esh- spring. J!)espite the loss of six' man team are attempting to help of seven regulars at midfield and the Garner cause at midfie1d, Joe attack, the team will begin the Stevens, Larry Dittleman, Steve season with more on-the-job Hopkins, Tom Salisbury, Steve training than is usually the case. Ehlers, Dave Isaacson and fresh- Rif.fle i Nets ' ma~ goa}ie Vic Fazio are com- n petmg w1th the returnees fol' the Bill Riffle returns for his third three spots. Jim Brooks would straight year in the goal. Sev-: be another valuable asset to the enth in the nation last yea!.\ in team should he become eligible total saves, Bill hopes to improve after spring vacation. his already excellent play and continue to spark the team. His Bowman Paces Attack job should be somewhat easier Leading the offense will be this year with the return of vet- crease attack Bill Bowman, high eran defensemen Rudy Umscheid, scorer from last year's 4-8 team. Pete Wenger, and Ernie Torrizo. Tom Male, Pete Waldron, and Bo~ky Morgan seems to have John Hahn are in the running picked up where he left off two. for the other two positions at the years ago and is fighting hard moment. Jeff \The Bear\ Schul- for a starting spot. John Har· theis will aid im~easurably if he vey wd Pa:ul Haunfelner will pro- becomes eligible l:)efore the start vid'e reserve strength as they gain of the season. Toby Wheelet• and anothe1• year of valuable experi- (Continued on Page 6) enee. Midfield seems to be completely unsettled at this early date. Phil Ganders is regarded as the team's outstanding performer here, after leading the team in assists last season. Ray Gilmartin and Larry Waters return from last year's team and are joined by Bill Parry FIELD'S LIQUOR STORE 38 Erie Blvd. (Across from Train Station) ----------- Save On Our Own wili' probably see picket duty when off the mound. shaping up very well, and with Opposing pitchers should ha\:'e an array of talented sophomores their work cut out for them m to add to his solid core of return- BERMUDA SHORTS- A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere Olde Village Private Label Spirits • silencing the Union bats :fuis _in~g::;::~le:;::tt::e:;r:;m:::e;::n::. :;:::::::;:::;::;::::;::::::::;:::::::- spring. Led by the smooth-~wmg- , ing McGray and sluggers Nicholas and Esposito, the three high aver- -Solids & plaids -Beltless & Ivy Model t age men from last year's squad, the Lawrencemen will have the potential all the way down the lineup to produce their share of • runs. . • All in ltll, the Garnet mne IS ¢l 0 0 Tim~; Cenlel\ Jewelc;.-s \Your Jeweler Away From Home\ BUY WITH CONFIDENCE HELP NEEDED Term Papers, Theses Typed LOW RATES New Resume Service Proven to Bring Top Offers BI:LL'S TYPING And MIMEO. SERVICE 350 12th St. Dl 6-2866 LUIGI'S RESTAURANT Specializing in Italian-American food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 I O% Discount to Union Men Enjoy Our Sizzling Steaks and Chops (Waist 2.9- 42) 2.95 3 34 State St. We cosh your checks gladly Boulevard Bowl 13.5 ERIE BOULEV.ARD 32 AMF BOWLIN·G LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES D I AM .A.N T E' S -'· Enjoy our Fine Home Cooked ltaliGU Food i¥1 Ou~ Comfortable Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOTT ST. OPEN DAILY 1 0 TO 3 A.M. - SUNDAYS 5 P .M.-3 A.M. NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accomodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 you look better in ow.~ ----------- We Deliver Free FR 4-6846 ·- ~t.last, somebody has buttoned down the perfect collar

6 ''Modern Hero'~ Subject Of F acuity Colloquium Professor Bruce Clements in a~·------------­ lecture entitled \The Modern Hero\ given at a Faculty Col- loquium, stated that \Not only do heroes exist in society, but they also give fertHity to it.'' According to Clements, whoeVer. saves us can be called a hero. The heroic act, performed in eithe1· a context of love, fear or both, bl'ings order back into the society in which the hero lives. In addi- tion, the hero always plays life against death. A hero is not sim- ply a creation of an artist, but an . historical force, for he changes the face of the world, inspires its·· people, gives value, and makes laws. · Clements stated that there are three types of modern heroes who are able to change .present condi- tions and establish order. The. fi·rst type is one who embodies or- der. The second is a discovenr of an order outside himself. The I last inserts unlet· out uf himself. 1 All of these h~:rut•s ufl'er them-1 selv~s to ,the people that they are I Bruce Clements speaks set·vmg. For example, Charles De- 1 , , • at the Gaulle still mingles with the peo-. f acuity Colloqmum. pie of France even though several - ----- ------ --- attempts have been made on his out of town before the people act, life. Modern Hero Described only the sense of it is left in a few people. Clements described the modern Clements concluded by saying hero as a man with a history of that there are no values for the detachment from his environment modern hero except those in man. because his integrity rests on his His deeds never make sense, be- solitude. He is a man whose com-. cause the romantic very seldom passion has no grounds in the uni- does. \A hero is one who has cut \'erse. Living in a gap between through all of the garbage on the two difi'erent eras, the nl<ldern outside chance of finding some hero acts as a prophet of the new. slice of integrity.\ In short he To illustrate his description of asks \why didn't you give us the modern hero, Clements com- bodies to match our souls.\ pat•ed the characters of Saloni, Camus, and Saches to those typi- cally played by Gary Cooper. . Magazt· ne Room I Clements contends that these authors bring order to their soci-. ety before they leave it· Their Is s u d d e s ted hero has no set rule for bringing ~ ~ about this change except detach- ment. Gary Cooper, on the other hand, portrays a figure that it is easy to build a myth around. He is a man with no past, alone; and not understood even by the few friends that he makes. He is a fettile and hopPful figure, a rebel that is responsible, and a kind of a secu- lar saint. Yet the difference between Cooper and the character of the Camus, Saches, Saloni is that Coooper does not leave behind or- der. He is generally seen riding Fraternities Discussed The deans of students from nine men's colleges agreed at a meet- ing last wee);:-end that fraterni- ties fill a desirable role on cam- puses but said they must adapt themselve~ to the serious aca- demic needs of students. The deans met on the Union College campus for a day-long in- formal discussion of the role of fraternities in college life. A spokesman said they recog- nized the rle:=drability of retaining the fraternity framework under which students !i\·e together in small groups and share soda! ex- periences. Howi'\'c>r, the spokesman said, the deans emphasized that na- tional frutcmities must provide an atmosphere conducive to in- tellectual achievement. The na- tional organizations are not ex- pectt>d to provide intellectual stimulntions for members of local chapters, hut they should not in- terfere with it, he explained. Otherwi~e, the deans said, they face the possibility that students will take their local chapters out of national organizations. The deans represented E(}w- doin, Wesleyan, Dartmouth, Le- high, Rensselaer Polytechnie In- stitute, Colgate, Hamilton, Trin- ity and Union. Lacrosse. • • (Continued from Page 5) Fred Kulicke could also add need- ed reserve strength. Coach Bruce Allison has corn- piled a strong 1~ game schedule for the squad which means that the stickmen can expect stiff com- petition each week. St. Lawrence has replaced Col- gate on the schedule, enhancing the chances for making a marked improvement on last season's los- ing record. The squad will leave for La- fayette College on Ma1'tlh 30th to begin a week of scrimmages that will eventually bring the team to the University of Massachus- etts and Williams College before returning . home in time for classes. The season opens Sat- urday, April 13th, against a pow- erful M.I.T. squad on Garis field. Dr. Edwin Tolan, Head Librar- ian, has announced plans for the transformation of the Schaffer Li- brary mezzanine into a periodical reading room. Tolan explained that the facili- ties now available for accommo- dating those who have need of the library's sources of newspapers and current periodicals are gen- erally inappropriate and inade- quate. The chairs in the reading room that offer the reader the only place to sit while scanning periodicals have the effect of \seats in a bus terminal,\ he said, and are \far from what we need.\ Also, the anangement of pel'iodi- cals mandated by present facilities is both \unattractive and difficult to use.\ The shelves of books now on the mezzanine are to be replaced by specially-designed magazine racks and holders ofl'el'ing opti- mum ease in picking out the need- ed literature from among all other issues. There will still be carrels on the mezzanine level, but many of the carrels will be replaced by comfortable chairs and with tables appropriate for the type of work that will probably be done there. \The new armngcment will prob~ ably add to the overall effect of the main floor/' Tolan added. SHARE OUR CHARM AND WIT No kidding .... mom and dad think you're the greatest! Most everything involving you inter· est~ the!Jl. Tell them what's hap- penmg 10 person, by phone ... it's the best way. Why not call home Long Distance tonight'! Rates are iGwer every evening after 6.00 and all day Sunday. Extra low for many calls within New York State after 9:00 p.m. : ~;; New York Tel9phone Friday, Mench 22, 1963 Revisions Proposed 'leading to an MA in American R• k top educated stuq~:tJ.ts. graqu~te, Studies, and ad-Interim scholar- . lC over • • • studying and thinking become a ship reports to determine the eli- thing of the past.. Extracurricu- 1 gibility of athletes. (Continued from Page 1) lar activities 4aye begun. to FA RIDlC Pa: Both movements to amend the of the present statis of our :Naval t.hre~ten t.he stu4env .. 4 . 1 s ·college ed- • present class schedule wm•e pro- Academy. At present it is train- ucatwn. Confound,eu .. by the .pop- posed by Professor Gilbert Har- ing its students for a \navy which ular conception o'f; ~~mtb:;tWs vil.'- The Faculty Council at its meet-. low. no longer exists-by officers, tue in the devel<rPn'i~nt Of iriitia- ing this week made two proposals In a report by the Committee many of whom do not know the tive and leadershiprRickover said to the Divisions to revise the pres- on the First Year, it was sug- real needs of today's Navy, and that he has 1 'mW.i!t· understood ent class schedule. Scheduled to. gested that English 1 and His- who are not aware that they don't how these qualities_ ate developed take effect next September, class- tory 10 be taken by all entering know. The N.R.O~T.C. midship- in carrying .out i>la·:tfl which are es will begin at 8:00 A.M. instead • students .concurrently, and that. men from civilian colleges are · selec.tecl by t~e co~?Ji• a.nd whi~h of at the present 8:30 time. Also every student take at least one more adult in their attitudes, and requu·e prec1se mo{fem.ents la1d the fourth hour classes on Tues- year ·Of a modern language, It they are generally better quali- out in advance by' llitll.' 1 ' Vol. 92--- day, Thursd<ty, and Saturday will was also proposed that more fied .academically ... If drastic . .. - . be eliminated to facilitate convo- courses be open to freshmen and. steps are not taken immediately One farm wor~e£ in the U. S. · cations and noon hour exams. that Division III review its offer- to improve the service academ;e 8 . prod~ces enough ·eii?tf. fo~ himself ings to non-science majors. The I would advocate that y 0 u consid- and 25 others. roJ1Pi'ibutions to Graduate Program Proposed last amendment to the freshman. er abolishing them.\ Rickover is the CARE . Food Q~!iade, New Ho1 Ele~ In addition, the Council pro- program would result in the abo-· also noted for his critiCism of York 16 N.Y. help Mei;ld Oi,il' farm posed the creation of a graduate , lition of the present requirement: American educational .practices. abundance to the fitftli?;ry in other program in American Studies in Formal Thinking. He feels that once these so-called .lands. · Tempest Winners ... L.ap ' • CDT.B.R.GARDNER V.M.I. DAVID E. LLOYD SAN DIEGO ST. H. H. ANDERSON OKLA. ST. U. (Fac.) RICHARD L. SMIT R.MONTGOMERY,JR. ROGERA.KtJ.ETER U. OF MICHIG.AN TEXASTECH.COLLEGE LORA$ COLLEGE EARL il\. BllOWN COLGA:rE (Fac.) R. I. SALBERG, JR. V. M. McMANAMON JOSE M. MARTINEZ U. OF CAL. ()EVRY TECH. INST. GONZAGA U. filii !!II *Ill-' t·~l:Cb~\-;.:~7 America's hottest new sports convertible! Did you win in Lap IMPORTANT! If you hold any of the 1.5 winning numbers, claim your Pontiac Tempest LeMans Con- vertible in accordance with the r~;~Ies on the reverse of your license plate. If you hold a Consolation Prize number, you win a 4-speed Portable Hi-Fi Stereo Set, \The Waitz\ by RCA Victor. Or, you may still win a Tempest! (See official claiming rules on reverse of your license plate, and observe claiming dates given above.) 1.A486272 2. C356696 3.A062375 4.C628490 5. 8797116 LAP 3 ••• 15 . WINNING I . NUMBERS. 6. 8304290 7. A622200 8. A000831 9.C050080 10. B711674 ? I 11. C426799 · 12. A441627 13. C741245 14.8443354 15.8597516 CONSOLATION PRIZE NUME3ERSI ~ 1. 8896122 6. 8507111 11. D801532 16. C0·79'585 2. C359461 7. C479883 12. 8784902 17. A973027 3. C669684 B. C688698 13. A151426 18. 8315344 4. A790991 9. 8763706 14. H176099 19. A766043 5. A537928 10.8468625 15.8429004· 20. C031599 Sweepstakes for colleges only More than 50 times the chance to win than if open to the general public. 1i mpests to go! Electior societies ha ~ Phi Beta Ka ship in Sign u:lty were el1 Phi Beta K1 honorary fratE dents who h standing. acad• the liberal a1 Cnion chaptet man, :Daniel Lucier, James Skloot, majo1' fred Sommer, son Bivnhol2; -dents, Peter ::: Shapiro, majo nold Mindel!, Arts and E Leslie Davis, '' • can Studies, ~ a Moder:p. La1 ,. •) The Societ~ annually to t. members tho: taken at leas in scienc~;~ and and hav:e sh lence in two study in the consideration who have sh< ity in rese~ , were: Donalc C. Birnholz, James C. Geu Leslie R. Hil Arnold P. M ers, H. Rich Romera, Da, F. Seligman, Howard W. ( mer, M;ieliael K. Walsh, Three l Full ntem1 twas awardee al'd A. F,f.offr f essor Inga: Electrieal E: fessor Alber ·J ' 6 nomics. Ele< ship follows original inv• erable impor ep]jed scienCE Professor President of Phi Beta K •) <) ) ) • • the gt'owing ing elected \When I \ 1930) there than four o •any year. , were electec members of cifero11S in a academlt! di Phi Beta K: being dest1 voiced his still too di \\Phi Beta. l Union is a here than a yet outside & munity no c ference in t a Union Pr really is nc hold down tions we m Skloo (, . Fulbr Edward fP president o has won graduate s1 named a :E Oward John lumbia Uni national Fe School of I :> The Full: year. Um study polit English at Get set for the last lap .•. 20 more Tempests and 25 more Consolation Prizes! Of course, entries you've al· ready submitted are still in the running-but enter again and improve your odds! And, if you haven't entered yet, NOW'S THE TIME! All entries received before March .29th will be eligible to win one of the 20 Tempests to be awarded in lap 4! So pick up an entry blank where you buy your cigarettes ... today! 0 Skloot is · • · I. the attitm 1 students ar school. EXCLUSIVE FOR THE GIRLS! If you win a Tempest you may Choose instead a thrilling expense· paid 2-week Holiday in E'Urope.-.for twoi Plus $500:1n cash! Get with th,e winners ••• FILTERs LIGGnr I ~YEA5 TOIJACCO CO. far ahead in smoking satisfaction I see THE PONTIAC Te!MPE$1' AT YOUR NEARBY PONTIAC CEAL.ERI L 'I ' • (. · Upon hi \ClColumbia's Affairs wl study for : ternational 0 political sc He has the studen Internati01 was the f \llappointed tors of th (Con

