r 25, 1963 1!ny :>ag!) 1) hapel. At 1ers of the i;he display 1ced. Open il two, will ~ekend will :l. The co:;;t >le for both ;he concert. be provided >Se who are ne advised o the elec- icers are to ..... ,. .. . , !eze n of era! ried tu re 1001 om- )ple the lOW d if- ess, to- l be '::of- ,. tam '47; nst., IC } . I AFRICAN POLITICS Page 4 Vol. 95 -· No.7 J~.·J· Outing Club • Plans Trips ); By Paul Sherwin The Outing Club, an organi- 1 (!.ation dEdicated to participation ' in outdoor activities, plans an ex- ·~ pansion program for the coming j year. Presently, the club's mem- 1 bershi!) consists of appro:ximately i twenty members, but is looking ,l· forward to increasing this num- ber. The club maintains a cabin in I Schoharie County which it em- l 1 ploys as .a base for its various operations. In the past, square i dances with other schools have · been held at this retreat. Al- l though no such festivities have ·~·occurred so. far this year, it is . expected_ that a. square: .dance will ; be run 1n the 1mmed1ate future. : Ski Trips Planned · One o:f the principle objectives · of the Outing Club is to organize ski trips. The club owns its own skis and is presently concerned with re]la.iring those which are defective. A work party, during which the members of the club will put forth a concet;ted effo1't in at~ernpting to render these skis fit for use is planned. In order that the group will find it possible to rent busses to tran.s- port its membership to ski areas, it desires that those stndents in- terested in this sport join their ranks • _ (Continued on Page 6) Founded at Union C()llege ln 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1'963 CIARDI PREVIEWED Page 3 PRICE 15 CENTS

2 Q!nnrnr Pubiuohe\1 Fridays durinG the school year by the Stt.dent Body of Union College, SchenecLady, N. Y. =-:a- tiona• Advertising Represent·atlve: National Advertising Service. Inc .. College Publishers Representati\·~- 120 Madison Av<> .. ~- Y. C: ~trust a Editorial Office, Old Gym, Union College, Publication Office, Sche- nectady Printing Company, 502 llt·o ... uway. h:ntered <n the Soh('· n<>t·tady Post Office as Second Class ~fall ~lattPr. Subscription .J5c a o·opy; $3 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. SENIOR BOA:RU DAVID BERENSON '6·! . ...FR 2-6583 ................................... Editor in Chief , [VENS L·EFLORh: '64 ................... Dl 6-98Df> ............................. BI!siness Manager SIMON SOBO '64 ............................... DI 6-9 848 ................................. Managing Editor ' ~~!:lfai~}~~~::~.::~:::::~::::::.::~~::::~~:::~~ : __ ::-.:: .. :-:-:-::-:-:;::~:-::-~:::.::.::.:.:.:-:-~:-:~~~£i.~!jj}j~~ JUNIOR llOARD Michael Bet·son • 6 4 .. ... ...... .................... ..... .. .. ... ... .... ................. ::.Ciake-Up Editor Mark Strom • 65 .. . . ..... ......................... . .......................................... Copy Editor Ri.chat·d Sifton '66 ................................................. Assistant Feature Editor Robert Hoffman • 6 6 ....... ............................ ..... ....................... Assistant News Editor David Volkman '66 .. Assistant News Editor WilHam Nau!ftus '66 ................................................................. Exch\:nge Ed~tor ~~s~:~~~-;:; ~=-·•••· :: Em ~E Mark Obenzinger '65 ................................ >;ational Advertising 1\lanam:er Robez:t S. Huff-man 'G.j .. ... . ...... ··· Ca.rtoo~ust Sherwoot.l Lee •a:.... .. ...... Contr~b~tlng Edttor Richard Resch '66 . Local Advertlsmg Manager Robert Klein • 66 . .. . .... ... ..... .......... Subscription Manager Robert Bu tehal< • 6 6 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .... ... Clrc\lllatlon l\lan~er Convocation Credit There is currently a petition circulating on the campus protesting against mandatory attendance of six convoca- tions per semester. Those backing the petition argue that student maturity is promoted by their being responsible for their own success or failure and that culture can't be forced upon a disinterested student. Certainly one cannot deny the validity of these argu- ments. It is important for students to be allowed as full a measure of freedom as possible in handling their lives while at Union. But as is so often the case, those now jumping aboard the \abolish convocation credits\ band- wagon have failed to see the subtlties involved in the con- vocation and have presented the problem as being far simpler than it really is. The first thing to be realized is that the nature of a small college differs from that of a great university. Each has its assets, of course, and each its drawbacks. Cer- tainly the student-professor contact on a small campus cannot be duplicated by a large university. One of the chief assets of Union college is that the professor's door is al- ways open to the student, be it for questions about the day's work or to discuss a personal problem. This simply cannot be done with a student body of 10,000. Yet it is also true that a member of a small college must give up a measure of his \freedom\ where he wouldn't have to do so at a large university. If a school such as Cornell has a turnout of 25a of the student body for a lecture, that is a goodly number. If 2% of the Union student body turn out for a speaker, he will be talking to 24 people. Those who feel that eliminating convocation credits will not cut the size of an audience to a great extent are just ignoring past history. The first Sigma Xi lecture of this semester, \open to all students,\ drew only 12 stu~ dents and a handfull of faculty. The last speaker spon- sored by the political forum addressed just six students and the Peace Corps. representative talked to four students. If the present convocation system is abolished, it would eventually mean the end of the Lectures and Con- certs .series at Union. If such were to be the case, it would only be a few years before a petition circulated around the campus demanding the institution of Lectures and Concerts and· asking how a college could conceivably have gotten along without them. A possible solution to the dilemma is to cut the num- ber of required convocations to three per semester. The funds of the Lectures and Concerts committee could then be consolidated and used to contract prominent speakers of wide renown. In addition, convocation credits need not be given for evening concerts, as they draw an audience from outside the campus as well as on it. Such a solution might be an effective compromise to the present contro- versy. L.H. A Poor Showing Tonight the third presentation in the current :film series will be held in EE22. Though we realize that view- ing conditions there are not the best, we were disappointed with the general decorum of the audience at the last show- ing and hope such an exhibition is not repeated tonight. L.H. NEXT? Contest Proposed For Student Playwright By Robert S. Hoffman In the last few years various complicate arrangements f<lr the members of the faculty and the Gado-Wingate production. student body of Union have pro- There are no specific limits on posed the adoption of new pro- the subject matter~ or time of grams, the institution of naw or- performance of the plays, but it ganizations, the alteration of the is expected that none will be more school curriculum and calendar. than an hour in du1·ation. Several proposals, like the link between W.R.U.C. and Skidmore's Pr()fitable Experience radio station, the Davidson cal- Numerous reasons for support- endar and its modifications, the ing the proposed contest and pro- alteration of social rules pertain- duction have been proffered. They ing to the entertainment of would provide profitable experi- women in dormitories and fra- ence for those involved in writ- ternities, and the incorporation ing, (including the losers), di- of an Honor system of testing, l'ecting, and acting. They would never emerged from the tentative also provide the campus com- stage. Others, including the munity with a novel dramatic ex- Focus Program and the classless perience. In the event that the freshman English program, were contest is a success, and the plays instituted, and then abandoned, are eventually staged, the initial to the chagrin of many. On the step towards institution of the other hand, several new programs program as an annual affair will and organizations were institut- have been taken, and a precedent ed successfully. These include will have been established. the Honors Pz-ogram, the Union- Growth in Drama Skidmore Orchestra, the Cheer- leaders, s :30 classes, and the sus- The twentieth centUl'Y has pension of ad intel'im grades. witnessed tremendous growth in Some are still in the initial college drama. Famous names stages, and may yet be success- in the history of college theater ful. Of these, Professor Frank include Professor Baker, of Har- Gado's proposed contest to choose varcl, and his disciple, Professor th 1 • b Koch, of North Carolina. The ree one-act P ays, wntten Y sC'hools at which both these men Union students, which would be put on by a student group, is tat~g·ht have developed outstand- among the more interesting. ing drama departments, and are among the many colleges and un- Gado Accepting Plays iversities with accomplishe<l men At present, Professor Gado is at the heads of fine dramatic accepting one act plays, both troupes. Plays like \The Adding from the members of his crea- Machine\ by Elm.er Rice, and tive writing course, and the stud- \Welcome to the City\ by Thom- ent body at large. At a later as Wolfe were o1·iginally put on date he will judge those received, at Harvard. Programs similar and, if there are any w01'thy of to the one suggested by Professor production, choose a maximum of Gado are now in operation at three for presentation by a stud- Dartmouth and Duke. If Union ent grouP.. This group, which i11 not to be the experimental in- will be under the direction of novator it was in its early his- members of Professor Wingate's -tory, as we are often remind- directing course, will put the ed, it would do well to pro- plays on in the first two weeks mote activities like that which after Spring recess. Plans for is being attempted now. Tl1e ad- producing any plays are still in ministration, often an obstacle, the tentative stages, since accept- is willing and the incentive, pro- ance of the position of scho.lar- (luction, is there, It is up to the in-residence by either Harold oft-complaining student to sup· Pinter, or Shelia Delaney would ply the material. Catnpus November 1 The third in the current film series will be shown in EE22 at 7 and 9 P.M. tonight. The film iB \Devi directed by Satyajit Ray, who in the past has been responsible for the Apu Trilogy, Mr. Ray once again depicts the decay of Indian aristocracy in a haunting, dramatic fashion. November 3 A Hillel Supper has been scheduled for Sunday night at 6:00 P.M. in Hale House. B'nai 13'rith Girls from .Schenectady will be present. Please sign up in the Student Activities Office. Rev. Paul W. Brauer, First Lutheran Church, Boston, will speak at the Con1munity Vesper Service .Sunday. The se1·vice will be held in Memorial Chapel at 11:30 A.M. November 4 Room and Board payments are due between the dates of No- vember 4 and November 8. Room rents of $80 for double rooms, $105 for single rooms for Fresh- men and Upperclassmen and the Board Fee of $122 for Freshmen for the second half of the cur- l'ent semeste1· will be payable at the Business Office during the hours of 8:30 A.M.-Noon and from 1:00 P.M. to 4:00 P.M. Freshmen will receive their sec- ond quarter meal ticket upon payment of their bills. Briefs November 5 John Ciardi, poetry editor for \Saturday Review,\ will be the ,1ruest speaker at the convocation to be held Tuesday in Memorial Chapel. Ciardi still has not de- cided on a topic for his talk, pre- fen•ing to \talk tl> the eyes he sees\ instead of having a defined lecture. A WRUC Meeting is being held in Memorial Chapel at 4:30 P.M. Tuesday. All station members are requested to please attend the general station meeting. A Student Council Meeting is being held in Hale House Lounge Tuesday evening at 7:30.. Any- one interested is urged to attend. November 7 A Memorial Service is being held for Professor Philip Stanley in Nott Memorial at 8:00 P.'M. Thursday. · The Union College Photogra- Jihi~ Society maintains . a fully eqmpped darkroom in the base-- ment of Silliman Hall for the use of any student who wishes to develop films or make prints. If you are interested' contact Tom Krehbiel (1111 Barrett St., 372- 5797) o_r Mark Strom (Phi Ep- silon PI, DI 6-9959) to arrange a time to be shown the facili- ties. (Continued on Page 4) Friday, November 1, 1963 friday, NQ' History of Jazz: Duke Ellington By T()m K1•ehbiel I,' . ' I .The To Poetry q The most important man in jazz, and perhaps in all of popu- lar music, is Edward Kennedy Ellington. Jazz would not exist as we know it today if it were not for the work of this man, and it would be very difficult, if not im- possible, to :find a jazzman with anything bad to say about Elling- ton's music. Recently the only compositions C h a r l e s Mingus plays are his own or Ellington's, Ellington is also one of the few jazzmev whose compositions are played by Dave Brubeck. Thelon- ious Monk's work, both his piano · is taken f1 around him. \I'm not wo·rri·edi Stot'!.ewru·ks, about creating music for poster~ Press, 1961 ity, I just want it to sound good University right now!\ This statement re- neth Feariu fleets his only criterion for judg- Poems, Indi ing music: \If it sounds good, it 1956 _ is good.\ and his writing, is heavHy influenced by Ellington. Sim- ilar observations of the impor· tance of Elling- ton can be made with respect to the music of Cecil Taylor, Gil Evans, George R u s s e 11, and many others. On the silver anni- 's Cotton Club debut an un.official fan club con- sisting of Woody Herman, Milton Berle, Arthur Fiedlet·, J:'eggy Lee, Percy Faith, Deems Taywr, .l:·e We Russell, Lena Horne, Lennie Tristano, Benny Goodman, Guy Lombardo, Dave Garroway, <Jole Porter, Morton Gould, Law1·ence W elk, Andre Kostelanetz, and Gordon Jenkins each made short statements of appreciation for El- lington's work and named their five favorite Ellington recordings. Certainly no other jazzmen could have had such an assortment of people name five of his records, much less select the five which are in their opinions the best. Began in 1927 No Borrowing Unlike many jazz composers, El- lington does not borrow at all from classical music. In fact, he rarely listens to classical music, and when he does he limits him- self to Ravel's Daphnis and Chloe, Debussy's La Mer and Afternoon of a Faun, Delius's In a Summer Garden, and Holst's Tile Planets. All of Elling.ton's forms for his longer works are dictated by the idiom and not by classical prac- tices. Ellington is also unique in that he has no followers; his work has given birth to no school of· ar1·anging or composing. The rea- son is simple: his work is not imitatable. He has never allowed his orchestrations to be published, and the secrets of his voicings have remained just that. Andre P1·evin summed it up well, \You know, Stan Kenton can stand in front of a thousand fiddles and a thousand brass and make a dra-. matic gesture, and every studio' arranger can nod his head and i say, 'Oh, yes, that's done like: this.' But Duke merely lifts his finger, three horns make a sound, and I don't know what it is!\ All Works Are Good Any and all Ellington 1·ecords are recommended. If you're just starting out, however, there is a good record of Ellington from the late thirties on the Tops available locally for as little as 77 cents, I would avoid the elec- tronically reprocessed stereo ver- sion of this. Ellington has re- corded so extensively that it is· often possible to buy his record- ings at low prices. Don't concern yourself with the possibility of getting an inferior record. The EHington name is the best guar- antee a l'ecord could have. The real beginning of Elling- ton s puultc career was December 4, 1927. That night the Ellington orch(;lstra opened at the Cotton Club. The band spent a)l of 1928, 1929, and 1930 there and then be- gan the pattern of the floating band with occasional home bases which it has followed ever since. The Journal of the U11ion Col- Many of Ellington's friends have lege Physics Society is planning tried to convince him to tour only an edition for the month of De- three or four months out of the cember. The editors are inter- year and spend the rest of the ested in articles pertaining to the · time at ease in New York writ- sciences, physical, biological and ing music and perhaps acquiring psychological. Anyone interest- the television show which he has ed in submitting an article should for so long wanted to do. But contact Leonard K.orn (372-7146) Ellington must have his musicians.;;;:'lr Ivan Linscott (EX 9-5625). ... EXCLUSIVE EUROPEAN. FILMS! Now Thru Wed! At 7 and 9:20 1 17 Mohawk Ave., Scotia Joseph E. Levine pre.enu FEDERICO FELLINI'S RECORDS OF COMEDY - JAZZ - CLASSICAL - FOLK AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS TAPES AND RECORDS FOR RENTAL ON CLUB PLAN APEX MUSIC KORNER State St. at Corner of Broadway Phone FR 7-1112 for three Generations ••• Those Who Know •• Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALlE~ Manriue B. Granbart · & Sons ' 11 3 Union Graduates in G:raubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY B;v Ro Having I feW WOl'dS : vocation sp to do a lit1 the subject be taken a. lig-htly as : Of the p• realm whk Dylan Thor Auden-the huberant ~ conceit wit sdousness- represented and John ( is more cot tion and tb tensive voc entific ps~ ary- knowl elosely reb Tho mas-h verted can passionate of this se· As If: from \Carl a Madonna Let there pomegra all that iu ally the momer The rescm process into decay Let.there grana tel in the cat HiacinH The- warts ish her Is the art gode-ss • lmows the . sproutir. hltt she }; enity . The teeth as phos halted tl1 ashes one night Their li pearled i with ro delighted his exil while all their b and drew the ste· \In My l l'ose,\ the God they W• Besides Thomas ' ly to my the awat U,l)On the In Thorn fusal to I of a Chil it produc try from most cle1 to a plai gy, style Searing's gized \: o'clock a ten. Jus gray twe hat, draJ walked c long loo1 just one died as whop to ( - 51 1 We gl

nber 1, 1963 Friday, November 1, 1963 3 n The Poetry Of John Ciardi Reviewed Saga Strives To Satisfy Frosh To Introduce Tuesday's Speaker But Critical Attitudes Re~nain , ' . • I Poetry quoted in this article home to sleep am! biff got mar-: again as if the language born of is taken from Ciardi's In the ried and bam had children and ! things Wc)rriedll Stot\ewnrks, Rutgers University 1 oof g-ot fired, Zowie did he live 1 S}Joke itself whold, I take days Pr~ss, 1.961; and As If, Rutgers. as zowit> did he die, ... ) Ani as if spoken, li!!fht as i~ brings not ic for poster- ;o sound good statement re- rion for judg- •unds good, it ring :omposers, El- •on·ow at all ~. In fact, he assical music, 1e limits him- nis and Chloe, md Afternoon In a Summer The Planets. U mvers1ty Press, 1955; and Ken- 1 rxampl'e near the end of the scale I g·reat green scrips to view. And 1~eth Fearil!g's Ne~ an4 Selected i is \Survival in M.issouri\: 1 since my most. . I oems, Indtana Umvers1ty Press, I When Willy Crosby died 1 thought green-spol1en and green-wntten 1'956. 1 too much: tongue is you, I Sister and Mother and Uncle and I speak and read my senses, H;v Rodhant E. Tulloss : Father O'Brien seas.on-!ossed, . . 1 Having been. asked to say a ' All talked about me a1~d how to. the1r fust rushmg· Logos rmg-~· few words about next week's con- It was all very touchmg: Such mg through vocatio. n speaker, I have decided . sorrow. li'ved 1 . 11 tllat bo . 1 the m.orning .of. the .world begun ·I to do a little fr~e association on He really y ' II ff to the the f1rst. arriVIng a1rs the subject. What follows may - ere now you gowono t.hrough which the young wolves . be taken as ? or as movies. I . b.tl · h G' g'l'ief to God. run I 1g Y as you w1s · JVe your along the quick cocked to their Of the poems expanding in the dowsing ears , I realm which was fi.rst defined by But here 1 am in :\Hssom·.i twen- and instant noses. Darling, I am I D 1 Th d w H 1 ty yea·rs later . Y an omas an ystan ugl Watching the rain come down slow 1 Auden-the combination of ex- That 110 one I>rayed for: a drown- and human and the wood outruns i Saga, functions as an individual- ly-operated organizatien. When Saga, under the super- vision of William Vandyk, came to Union soon after the demise ·of the fermer dining concession, it 1 had to estahlish itself on the shat· I tered remains of its predecessor. The construction of the previous 1 organization was in such .a sham- bles that Mr. Vandyke found it advisable as well as necessal'y to commandeer the situation and rec- tify it. Milk dispensaries were in- 1 stalled. The selection of deserts, I I salads, and recently main courses, was broadened to meet the tastes of a greater number of college men. The variety, i.t was hoped, would be welcomed :l>y them. :orms for his · .ctated by the ~lassical prac- llso unique in vers; his work ! no school of ! 1ing. The rea- huherant and at times obscure ed crop my blood. I conceit with a keen social con- And the MississiJ)pi rising I fill with tongues I do not who!-. sciousness-the exhemes could be ly know, • represented by Lawrence Durrell On a wet world still washing with prowling senses never un- • . . . . , . . and John Ciardi. Where Durrell away the kid derstood. Freshmen wait m lme m typical meals traffic Jam at West College. The entire kitchen also un- derwent a metamol:\phosis. The food, which had previously been poorly prepared, was nmv pre- pared with care. Mr. Vandyke introduced a system of ro- tating cooking w·hich would theoretically reduce the pos- work is not never allowed is more concemed with introspec- Who thought too much about tion and the subtle use of his ex- Willy Crosby tracking my five wits to their Not wantng to deviate far from 1 be published, his voicings · that. Andre tensive vocabulary and broad sci- But went to the movies all the entific psychological, and liter- same. deepest den, the attitudes of previous fresh- where You Wa it I'n the first of lp well, \You can stand in fiddles and a make a dra- every studio ' ary knowledge, Ciardi is more It was a lovely wake and every- one admired me. men classes, the class of '67 or time again. i at least a considerable portion of dosely related in spirit to Dylan At night the Salt Hills go blue Thomas-he is a- kind of extro- verted cantor as revealed in the perfectly. «Goodnight\ 1 it, has filled the West Colege hall'- . ways with clamors of protest An oyster that went to bed x:-mil- • against the Saga. Fo_od Service .. It passionate ecclesiastical chanting Havin_g survived a theology and of this selection from his book, I a wbar, · · t·o tlllderstand lion years ago, · seems ti;at a~ o~?Je~tlve eva.lua~10n his head and i t's done like: arely lifts his make a sound, b.at it is!\ As If: · am egmnmg from \Carlo Crivell Muses Before The rain. tucked itself into a sand-bottom · · of the situatlon IS m order m v1ew yawned (so to spealr), ' ·of the continued av~rsion for the a Madonna\ vi re Good ngton rec:orcls)l Let there be adoration among If you're just pomegranates; er, there is a all that in nature form unnatur- gton from the ally Le Tops label the moment of its jewelry in time. r as little as The rescue of perfection from its .void the elec- 1 ptoeess ed stereo ver- into decay is art and adoration ... 1gton has re- lly that it is . vii 1y his record- Let there be adoration by pome- Don't concern· granates possibility of in the cauliflower heart of light. record. The Hiacinths for hymnals. he best guar- Tile warts of a cucumber to rav· ld have. ish her fingers. te Union Col- y is planning month of De- •rs are inter- ·taining to the · biological and (one interest- article should rn ( 372-7146) EX 9-5625). Is the artichok~ no censer? The godess of fungi knows the disastrous wood of the . sprouting crvss but she has left nature for ser- enity ... viii The teeth of a dead dog luminous as phosphor halted the red-bearded God of ashes one night outside the city walls. Their light- and woke a mile high in the Freshmen Food serv1ce. And these few lines from \The Grand Canyon of the Colorado. 1 Improvement Over Past Invasion of Slee1> Walkers\; They were weeding out the If I am not here for breakfast, 1 It must be noted that previous dead at the funeral home geologize at will. dining services at the college did to reduce the overstock. Rack not always maintain the high after racl' ROTC Cadet AI Horn soloed standards which the present or- the wire-hung bones chat- recently as pa1t of the Air Fol'ce ganization endeavors to promote. tered their loneliness FLP Program. Like other se-, Had the present freshmen been and even the drunkenest an- lected Cadets in the officer train- freshmen four years ago, they gel wept and sang. ing program, Horn is enrolled in would have observed a noble ex- .fl,nother interesting, though the 1P category. On completion ample of culinary chaos. Poorly perhaps superficial comparison of his pilot training course, the• prepared meals, less enthusiastic between Ciardi and Thomas is cadets in the program may take service, and a hodge-podge of that between theil• birthday the licensing test for commercial other factors combined to exas· noems. Thomas' famous \it was pilots. perate and otherwise convulse the iny thirtieth yeor to heaven ... \ Under the program, the cadets students. In addition, the fresh- d C . d'' 'p f com.plete one semester of ground men food concession was then be- an mr 1 s ' · oem or My d b b · Thh·ty-Ninth Bit·thday\ describe school under Captain Robin- ing operate Y a usmess con- the emotions aroused by the day son. This is followed by 36 cern, which maintained, in addi- . f 1 d · 1 hours of flight training in tion to the Union College facili- m terms o natura an soc1o ogi- d · 1 cal occurrences which are exact a twin-seater, single-engined ties, foo concess10ns at severa h Cessna 15o 's. These specially manufacturing institutions. This metap ors in tone !'ather than k' h .... t t · d th in analogy. hand-crafted planes are based at 1tc en at'olS ry an agomze e the Schenectady County Airport. students to such an extent that Talking about poetry takes Horn has so far completed its victims rebelled. Spreading away the spontaneous pleasure eight hours of the flight train- over the -campus, the clamor soon and excitement which comes from in.,., practical application pro- reached the ears of the adminis- an unprefaced reading complete - Af 1 · t th tration. with personal discoveries on all gram. ter 50 omg a e sev~n The s1'tuation at that time had and one-half hour mark, he W1ll levels by the reader-symbol, return to a dual flight system become so chaotic that a drastic passion, message. Therefore, I and courses in cross-country fly- change in the philosophy of the leave these last two poems with- ing and advanced navigation. service was necessitated. out commentary. They are from Then, after twenty hours of this • • • • • • • • • • • • • • \\ ied! :20 pearled in frvth with rot- delighted the God his exile ~~~~~;,~ book \'In the Stone· type of class work, Horn will ~~ •••• •W• .ALKER-'S solo again, this time cross coun- and diademed' \It is Spring, Darling\ tl-y and for a total of 16 hours. rt is Spring, darling, and the PHARMACY, INC. ., Scotia -FOLK ~ER W.ALTE~ Sons amity'' WELRY while all the prose their breaths to J>Oetry in disciples held five feathers a-~~~~~; ~~te~~aewits, those five O&J AUTO StRVIC£ P:\?'coinanzo-H. L. Walker the spun self spins out to the rayed weathers, and drew back shuddering from the stench of time. \In My Fathe!''s hand is another rose,\ twitch and receive new airs. A slight uncanny 1372 Union St. BRAKES - TUNE-UP WHEEL ALIGNMENT & BALANCE tipple stirs tl1e skin. I learn the God admonished them. But they were men. Besides the comparison to Thomas which comes immediate- !~· to my mincl, there is also here tlie awareness of society :forced UJ)on the poet py World War II. In Thomas this produced \Re· fusal to Mourn the Death by Fire of a Child in London;\ in Ciardi, '' it produced a broad range of poe- ·· try from the highly symbolic (the most clearly related to Thomas) to a plain sp<>ken, at times slan- gy, style reminiscent of Kenneth Searing's famous, over-antholo- gized \Dirge.\ (\And twelve o'clock arrived just once too of- ten. Just the same he wore one gray tweed suit, bought one straw hat, drank one straight Scotch, walked one sho1·t step, took one long look, drew one deep breath, just one too many, And wow he died as wow he lived, Going whol> to the office and blooie STRETCH SKI PANTS New·est Colors 16.95 to 24.95 Reg. & Longs We gladly Cash your checks how far into the threaded wood the young wolf reaches, his sense trembling, turning· hair by hair the prescience wound in creatures. It is Spring, and never again perfectly, but always Dl 6-9644 \fffTTftifffffi'f'f'ft'ffTTTTTt'Tf'TTf'ft¥'tttTT'T'f'f'T'f'W\' DIAMANTE'S Enjoy our Fine Home Cooked ltCllicn food in Our Comfortable Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOTI ST. OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M.- SUNDAYS 5 P.M.-3 A.M. • ''A A.A ............. ,6, .I.. 4 ..... ,4, ... 4 4 .............. + ....... ;. 4-' ••• \'--: New Student Rates- CHINO PANTS LAUNDERED 39c (2 OR MOREl SHIRTS 20c SUITS -------98c JACKETS -----49 PANTS ------49c SWEATERS Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5294 Just Around the Corner from Mohawk National Bank 509-511 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. FR 4-7709 GUARANTEED :BLUES CHASER A call home, Long Distance, is a real .picker-upper. For you. For your .folks, too. A phone call is so much warmer than writing. It tells .fhemyou care. Rates are lower every ~vening after 6:00 and all day. Sunday. Extra low for manY calls within New York State after 9t00 p.m. ®New York Telephone Saga Foods, Inc., an organiza- sibility of stale food~ In addi- tion catering to some 130 colleges tim\ to all this, the present organ- across the nation, has been in ex- ization receives U.S. Choice meats, istence now for about fourteen approved vegetables, and high years. Comparatively new, the cor- quality canned .goods. poration feels .that in order to I The service itself has received serve a group of college men a marked improvement over what. properly it must necessarily ca~er I had previously eJdsted. .Kept. as to their tastes as far as economic- neat and clean as :poss1ble, the ally feasible. Each college dining I Dining Room is now a reasonably service, although affiliated with (Continued on Page 4) Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian • American food Dis,.ount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 11 15 l?.arrett St. IN DOWNTOWN Your Official Prom Florist Offers Special Rates ON CORSAGES ROSES - CYMBIDIUMS -. GARDENIAS - CARNATIONS-· PRCHIDS free Boutonnaire with Each Corsage - \YOUR DOWNTOWN FLORIST\ - JOHN J. GALLO 96 JAY ST. - opp. Post Office Dl 6-4487 Allt;nllon ~Indents! -- SEND A COPY OF THE ''CONCORDIENSIS Home To Your Parents ••• ' ' The Rate Is Three Dollars Per Year. Fill out the order blank below and Bring or Mail To: Union College Student Activities Office Old Gym Schenectady, N. Y. Please Send the Concordiensis for 1 year to: Name ______________________________ ~----------- Addres s------~--------------------~--------- Check Enclosec:!; _____ _ Cash (Check one)

4 Friday, November 1 , 1963 Campus Briefs • • • (Continued from Page 2) been organized Saturday night Union College Amateur Radio I at 8:30. Station W2UC has announced that I A Hootena:nny will he given at it is accepting messages for the. Spa Theatre in Saratoga transmission over .the air to any I Sprmgs on Saturday at 8:00 P.M. .point in the United States. Any-~ A?out 18 performers and groups one interested in ·this serv.ice is '''!II take part. Among these requested to leave the message w1ll. be amateur as well as pro- including the sender's name, ad~\ fesswnal folksingers, including· dress, and telephone number, the L.en Chandler, well lmown folk- receiver's name address and I smger from N. Y. There will be telephone numbe~. and any per- Bluegrass music, ballads, comic tinent data in the W2UC mail so.ngs, blues, co~ntry Westem, box in the Student Activities Of- tnos and duets w1th banjos, gui- fice. If left in the box earlv in tars, mandolin, .fiddle, autoharp, the day, the ·message should be and the dulcimer. . /Haines Gives Views On Various Topics Frettdom Forum: African Politics transmitted on the day in which i The Hooten~nny IS being given it is .received. If there are any I for. the ,benefit ?f .the .Retarded questions please see Larry Conk- Chtldrens Assoctahon m Sara- lin, DI 6-9895, or Mark Strom, toga County. DI 6-9959. I Nove~ber 10 WRUC Program Notes 1 The ·Commumty Vesper Se1·vice Friday 10:00-11:00 P.M. I is being held in Memorial Chapel at 7:30. Rev. John Coventry The \KC\ show 1 Smith will speak. Ken Chick Spo1·ts Calendar: (Continued from Page 1) A: In my opinion, there is a lack of concern over this matter on the part of some people. Q: What are the more import- ant difficulties encountered in the hiring of new faculty mem- bers? A: There are five main .prob- lems: salaries, teaching load, the opportunity for research, the op- portunity for teaching graduate courses, and the academic climate of the college. We are attempt- ing to double faculty salaries ovel' the next ten years; this will re- quire an annual increase of about 7 per cent. The, teaching loads, of the faculty members should be significantly reduced; many professors currently carry a 15- hour weekly load. Nine hours flhould be normal. As for research, the college Ron Tebbutt November 2 should encourage it as much as j l''reshman Football, Union possible, including the allocation Mon.-Wed.- Fri. from 8-9 P.M., YS. R.P.l., Alexander Field, 2:00 I of funds. The \Playboy Show\ with Bob I P.l\'I. The teaching ol' graduate Bullard and John Dooley. ~ courses is important for new fac- Hillel Services are held every I . . . ulty members. I feel that it Friday night at 7:30 in Silliman Students mterested 1,n workl~g should be a part of the regular Hall. Preceding the servi~es is I 011 the Student Councll c~mm1t- teaching load, rather than an ad- a discussion in the west College tees Of! calendar o~ curriCulum dition to it, as is the case in the Dining Room at 6:00 P.M. Any- i evaluatwn. sh?uld sign up with Evening Diyi;;ion .. 0ne interested is invited. : ~r.s .. Justlc.e m th~ Stud;mt Ac- The admm1stratton has to do ; tlY1t1es ~ff1ce any ~1me th1s week, everything it can to provide November 8 'or get m touch w1th John Beck- academic excellence and a climate A F lt B 'd T I erman at the Phi Epsilon Pi, of curiosity. My last point is is beingachel~ Frld}ye nig~~r~~~~g~ i DI 6.-9959. The student body is merely a reflection of the basic · th H 1 H F. · 1 t I remmded that the Student Coun- purpose of this institution m e a e ouse 'acu y ·1 'tt 'II b ·bl · L c1 c~mm1 ees w1 e una e to Q: One frequently hears that ounge. , functton unless they receive the Union students are apathetic and November 9 A 1 support and participation of the lack intellectual curiosity and Faculty Square Dance has students. motivation. Do you agl'ee with this idea? A: This is a two-way problem. Midtown Barber Shop The student must be presented with things which will draw his interest and must then feel that he can play an active part in the college. The opportunity for in- tellectual activity is present on campus; any student can find stimulation and challenge. There are enough good faculty members on campus for this. There are also several other aspects of the college, such as the Honors pro- grams and the Lectures and Con- cert series, which provide a good structure for intellectual activity rnd student interest. 5 15 UNION STREET (Next to Union Inn) Specializing in Restyling of Hairdos Each llead is given personal care 4 'T i' f i' ¥ Y ¥ T f Y f + f i + f 'T ¥ f 9 T t ¥ f' t i ¥ Y T ¥ T f \\ ¥ f T ¥ 'Y V T ¥ T '¥' T y +' UNION INN 517 UNION STREET Time; Ct;nler J.:;welc; .. s \Your Jeweler Away From Home\ BUY WITH CONFIDENCE 428 State St. FR 4-0183 FOR MEN ONLY ••• the answer to your Gift problem. Cultured Pearl Necklace. Treasures of the sea.·.. not simulations ... created hy natural pr11cesses within the living oyster in the depths of the South Seas, Naturally beautiful, and growing in lustre and value the longer she wears them. Spend 110 more than yon desire for tbl11 perfe(lt 81ft. Regardless of its price, every necklace is beautifully matched. She will wear your gift of cultured pearls with pride ... and these precious gems will join a family's most prized heirlooms. Beau lila! cultured Pearl necklace• lrom SSO to $1500 (ultllrtd Pearlo oet io 14kt gold: EarriDgo SIS up-Rins•llO up (P.S. BesurtM!ees thiJ aduerli.semtnt) Tl ME CENTER JEWELERS 428 STATE STREET PHONE :FR 4-0138 Q: Would you comment on the admissions situation? A: Because of the increases in scores and the numbers of ap- plicants, it would be hard to ar- gue that the admissions policy is wrong; as for geographical distribution, policy could not change the situation .of ·having two-thirds of each class from this state. I also feel that the student body will probably in- crease to 2,000 by 1970, and that plans should be made according-· ly. Q: What is your opinion of the 4Jalendar situation? A: I do not feel that there should have been a change be- cause the faculty was too divided. A thorough curriculum study should precede any action on this matter in the future. By Eric Levy Next Monday's meeeting of the deplorable apathy toward current Schenectady F1·eedom Forum events. promises to be interesting. Orig- Tickets Available inally the speaker was to· be Nda- The Freedom Forum will be banincri Cithole: unfortunately he!-' t 8 00 M d N .,. • u a : p.m. on ay,. a- however, the government of . .vember 4, in the auditorum at Southern Rhodesia recently im- Linton High School. Free tickets prisoned him for subversive polit- may be obtained from Mrs. Stan- ical activities. This event happen- ley in the library. For the more ed in late August, and he bas not publicly spirited, Professor Henry as yet been released on bail. It is Ferguson of the History Depart- extremely doubtful that be will· ment would appreciate the serv- be able to leave the country with- ices of a few Union students to in a month. act as usher and ticket collectors at the gathering. Amachl·ee to Speak Definitely, the Freedom Forum Though the officers of the is getting off to a strong start this Freedom Forum expressed consid- year, and should present a very erable regret that Mr. Cithole interesting line-up of speakers. It would be unable to attend, they offers a fine opportunity for one have succeeded in securing an- to hear learned opinions on a wide other African lecturer who ap- range of issues. Furthermore, the ROOM AND BOARD PAy. pears t(} be a man of broad exper- question period following each MENTS DUE BETWEEN ience and great education. He is lecture provides a chance for the DATES OF NOVEl\lER 4 Godfred K. J. Amachree, former citizens to air his views and THROUGH NOVEMBER minister of justice and solicitor weigh the thoughts of others. 8, 1963 general in the Nigerian govern- Gati. • • Room Rent of $80 for double ment. Presently, Mr. Amachree rooms, $105 for single rooms fot is Undersecretary-General of the Freshmen and Upperclassmen and Department of Trusteeship for the Board Fee of $122 for Fresh- Non-Self Governing Nations oi (Continued f1•om Page 1) men for the second half of the the United Nations. he studiea to handle all trade with the Sov- current semester will be payable at a govemment college in lJ mua- iet block. Under this system, ·at the Business Office between the hia, Nigeria, and at l'ellllJrokc chere would be unified action ra- dates, MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4 College and Gray's Inn o1 the ther than competition among the THROUGH FRIDAY, NOVEM- University of London. In l\;149 he · 'Y~stern nations. As a result, po- BER 8, 1963 during the hout·s of was appointed Crown Counsel oi htwal rather than economic cri- 8 :30 a.m. - noon and from 1 p.m. Nigeria, and served as acting teria would be set up as a basis to 4 p.m. legal secretary to the Southern for trading. Freshmen will receive their sec- Camerooons executive. Mr. Ama- Mr. Gati emphasized that in- ond quarter meal ticket upon pay- chree was named Solicitor Gen- ternational problems cannot be ment of their bills. eral in 1957, and was the ,Princi- solved. One can only adjust to LATE PAYMENT FEE OF pal legal advisor to the N1gerian them. We cannot expect to solve $5.00 DUE AFTER NOVEMBER government. He represented the the satellite problem, he believes, 8, 1963. crown in all civil litigati<ln, and but, by holding limited objectives, Beginning, Monday, November discharged his duties with admir- we can obtain a limited degree of 11, Freshmen will be required to able skill and efficiency. More- independence for these nations. 1,resent their new meal ticket for over, he served as permanent sec- Faculty colloquiums have been meals at West College. retary of the Ministry <lf Justice held annually for many years. Business Office. in Nigeria. Mr_ Amachree has Talks are given approximately been associated with the United each month by a member of the Nations since 1961, and :became faculty. The next speech will be The Outing Club plans to hold Undersecretary-General <lf the by Professor William :M. Murphy a Halloween Party in Knox Cave t Department of Trusteeship for of the English Department on No- with Albany State and Russell Non-Self Governing Nations in vember 20. Sage this weekend. Its schedule July of 1963. He has eal'ned an for the following weekend calls enviable reputation in his work for a square dance with Vassar. with the Portugal-Angola dispute. For more information about the activities and purposes. of this organization phone Steve· Ege- !lleier, 105 Richmond, 346-9733; Bob Osborne, 420 South, 346-9895;. Alan Ricker, 217 Richmond, 346- 9848. FIELD'S LIQUOR STORE 38 Erie Blvd. (Across from Train Station) Save On Our Own Olde Village Pl'ivate Label SI>irits We Deliver Free FR 4-6846 African Politics . At the Monday night F1·eedom Forum, Mr. Amachree will prob- ably discuss some controversial topie related to Mrican IJolitics. His talk certainly will be provoc- ative, informed, and challenging, since he is a man of e:l!tensive training and cosmopolita11 back- ground. The audience sho11ld find his delivery a stimulating com- ment on our times; perhaps it will galvanize some of us out of our EASTERN AVE. Quick Clean Cleaner WASH DRY 25c lOc 823 EASTERN Ave\ ~· t t v t t Y t 'f t t t t ¥ t t ¥ t y Y t t i t t 'f' ¥ t T 'f i 't' ¥ Y + i Y T i 'f' t 't + t i t ~ ~ ~ .~ t DEWITT'S Saga. • • (Continued from Pag-e 3) attractive place in whicll to eat. The organization now employs both local labor and students working for their board. Th~ serving of the meals in coopera- tion with the Office of Student Aid is made as efficient as possi- ble: serving meals to a college group must, of necessity, be in- fluenced by the daily schedule of classes. The Dining Room has not ·yet reached a status quo. Mr. Van- dyke has expressed the desire to listen to any helpful suggestions or criticism that the students.may have, to discuss them, and where · economically possible to put them into eff' ect. Psych. • • (Continued from Page. 1) the course. One limiting factor to the size of the group has beeh. the difficulty of finding sch(}ols . close enough to the campus :for .pbse:r- vational use. Otherwise, the ~oUi'se is open to all students wh:O. ,have had Introductory Psychology '1a~ lb. NEED YOUR SHOES REPAIRED? WE MEND SHO~S f Ideal ~ Fine Food and Legal Beverages Shoe Repair Cafeteria and Tap Room ~ 118 - 120 JAY STREET 1565 Van Vranken Aver1ue :~ .... 4 • • .. 4 4 4 ........ 4 ........ 4 • • • • • •• 4 • • • .. • • .. .. • .. • ........ ~=======================~ ~r~-~~r '-J CHARLES Optici.ans 604 UNION ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Phone FR 7-1283 Prescriptions Filled Frames and Lenses Repaired Promptly HOURS: 9:00 - 5:30 Wally's Din e,r • Home Made Pies Good Coffee • . 1 325 Erie Blvd .. Open Daily 5 A.M. 7 P.M. Friday, Nov Gri~ SeeJ Joe Stevem .the Week\ morrow's m of coach M Garnet slat Tomorro'A Union Collj be hosted a Iiams town, , Dutchmen Williams g·1·idders w large score and to lev· at 3-3. Last Sat lege fans Field hopi: Garnet off, an impres: first four l the \hot\ Alva Kell particular!~ Ron Carlisi Garnet a l' men's vicb for the se1 ing the D1 tered their in two ye1 Gro1 The well the Garne realize its the grounc }lick up on , compared It appears . game has personnel outstandinl dan Hutcl cifically t< Terry Dut <]Uarterbac· Tom Hitcl: pass plays Dutton, , head injm while lead impressive University of the Mo lege stude sponsored Society. by the so serious enc the collegE Dutton, tl to be sol body this campus in The Uni he able to offense UI called for run what verse wit] Dutchmen REST A FOUN lA It POLY! CELLC Phone F

1,. 1963 current will be No- at ree tickets Stan- the more Henry Depart- the serv- to collectors Forum this a very peakers. It for one on a Wide the each for the and others. 1) the Sov- system, action ra- the result, po- cri- as a basis that in- cannot be adjust to ct to solve believes, objectives, degree of nations. have been years. of the will be Murphy on No- ag-e 3) ich to eat. ·employs students, ard. The c6opera- Student as possi- a college be in- of not ·yet Mr. Van- e desire to may and where o put them • 1) :l;'actor to as beeh.the close :for .pbsex- the' ~o:ui'se wh:o. ,have 'la~ • , s Pies . 7 P.M. Friday, November 1, 1963 GriddersA t Willia~ns; Seek. Third Conquest •,· ·' Harriers Lose; Prep For IC4A Bob Beaudry's · First Season' Is A Success The Union College cross coun- try team completed another dis- appointing season last Wednes- day as they faced Hamilton Col- lege in their fifth dual meet of Although the Garnet soc- the 1963 campaign. The final cer squad closed out their tally of the contest found the· season with two defeats dur- · Continentals on the low end of a 25-?0 margin on the strength of ing the past week, losing 5~2 their one-two-three showing to Hobart Saturday and 6·2 Rick Cunningham captured ~ to Trinity Wednesday, they strong first in the event with a· still managed to compile the 26.01 time over the 4.7 mile best record the Union· boot-'. course. He was followed in or- der by teammates AI Podosek and ers have seen in the past five Dan McKeon. The Dutchmen kept· years. Their 4 and 5 log is , ~he score close by placing men very respectable considering m the next five positions, led by the excellent quality of op- o~tstanding sophomore Dave Rmg who captured fotn-th in position on the Union sched- 27:3~. He was followed at ap- ule, and constitutes a feather proximately ten second intervals in the cap of coach Bob by junior captain and vice~presi- Beaudry, a first ,_rear man on dent of the Block U Society Gary ·' Morris, John Sepples, Dave'Volk- the Union staff .. man, and Jan Werner. Ring, who was nominated for the Block-U The Hobart gl).me, which had sponsored Athlete of the Month loomed as the best opportunity Joe Stevens fades :back after the snap from \Dutchman of ·contest by harrier mentor Wil- for the Garnet hooters to push .t.he Week\ Bob DiMichele (54) in a recent practice session for to- fred Ketz, has been hampered by over the .500 mark, was well morrow's meeting with the Williams Ephmen. Together with the rest injuries this se1;1.son, but has played by both elevens and any- of coach Maras's forces, these gridders will be fighting to bring the s. hown, nevertheless, why there one's game until the final gun. Harnet slate back to a respectable three wins and three losses. · Th fi t h If h' h I t 1s good cause for a more opti- e rs · a , w lC saw amos mistic outlook for next season an equal number of shots on both By Rick Eagles In PI~vious meet~ he has cap~ goals and fine defensive play by tured m two of his better show- the Union backfield, ended with 1 Tomorrow afternoon at 1:30 the I last Saturday as they did in last ings a first and a second. the Statesmen in command by a Union College foot. ball team will.l year's final game with Hamilton Th G 2-1 count. Sophomore standout be hosted at Weston Field in Wil- who constantly used the sam~ · e arnet frosh unlike their John Fuller gained the Dutch- Tiamstown, Massachusetts, as the t1lay to humble the Garnet grid- varsity counterpart managed to men's tally, slanting in from his Dutchmen take on the eleven of ders. ·end up on the better side of an- right wing position to drive the Williams College. The Union The Union left gua1·d is other close score, this time a leather into the Hobart nets. Sen- g·l·idders will. be out to even a trapped by the left guard (3) of tight 28 • 29 · The . Dutchmen's ior co-captain Bill Bexnard was large score w1th the Purple Cows, Hobart. The effectiveness of thi\s J~hn Moran paced his way to a I t t th d f h ' first place wht\ch lt'ke the score os o e squa or t e season s and to level their season record play depends on the halfback. He final when he suff red I was extremely close. HI\s tt\me e. a severe y at 3-3. must wait and run as he would over the three mt\le frosh ·course sprained ankle during action in Last Saturday the Union Col- foe a draw play, so that the de- the second peTI\od The 1\nJ' ry a was 15:35.4, only two-tenths of · u w s lege fans arrived at Alexander fcnsive guard will cross deeply d costly to coach Beaudry both Field hoping to watch a \hot\ into the backfield where he is a secon · and three yards better from the soccer and swimming Garnet offense which had scored either already out of the play than Hamilton's Andy Campbell. standpoint, for Bill will undoubt- an impressive 93 points in its or can be ea'sily trapped by th~ The Continentals grabbed the edly be hampered during his pre- first four games. Unfot-tunately, far side offensive guard. third slot also, but Neil Camp- season swimming drills in the 200 th \h t\ ff b 1 ed t E f b 11 man, fourth; Ron Sherinko d · d 'd e o o ense e ong o very oot a game has its sixth; Al Howard, eighth·, John' yar m iv1 ual medley and 200 Alva Kelley's Statesmen, and bright moments as well as its p yard freestyle. The game's pat- particularly to Hobart halfback dark ones. The. Dutchmen's play eters, ninth; Ed Manfred, tenth; tern did not noticeably change in ' Ron Carlisi, as Hobart handed the sparkled several times last week and Steve Hunt, eleventh; held the third period, with both de- Garnet a 17-0 defeat. The States- on both offense and defense· un- on to assure the victory. fens s p · · t bl H\ h ' Although the varst\ty Ket~men e rovmg lmpene ra e. lg men's victory made their record fortunately, they were not able u scoring Ronme Prins knotted the for the season 2-2-1. In defeat- to brighten up the ent1\re ·day. completed the year with only one contest at 2 2 sh rtly aft th victory against four losses, it was - 0 er e ing the Dutchmen Hobart regis- Both ouarterbacks delivered fine start of the final quarter by weed- tered their third football victory games- particularly with their far from a total failure. For one ing his way through the opposing in two years. passing attack. Joe Stevens who thing, that lone win represented defense and then slamming his Ground Game Gone is usually noted for his ability ~he first jor. a Union cross coun- shot past the out-stretched hands Play Trinity The Union hooters also made a strong showing Wednesday when they traveled to southern Con- necticut to close their season against a strong Trinity squad, who by their victory remained on the lists of the unbeaten. Al- though the visitors were slightly outmanned in the game, a strong wind which blew throughout the contest proved to be a great hin- derance to both the Gamet at- tack and goalie, and created a somewhat larger point spread than there ordinarily would have been. The first half was quite evenly played, with Trinity scor- ing twice, one coming on a de- flection off the foot of a Unio:r. fullback, and Union once, on a hard smash by Prins with an as- sist from Fuller. The second half was a different story, however, as the powerhouse host team began to dominate play. They scored four times, getting occasional as- sistance from the swirling gusts of wind, and their defense collab- orated to turn away several Gar- net drives. The Dutchmen finally placed another mark on the score- card as Giancarlo Chivallard tap- ped a fancy shot into the home goal on a pass from sure-footed, senior co-captain Larry McCray. The Garnet boooters played well despite the 6-2 margin, and de- served special credit in view of the fact that four of the original starters were on the bench throughout the game due to in- juries received earlier in the sea- son. Junior fullback Gary Brown and sophomore halfback Darry Caye looked exceptionally good in anchoring the Garnet defense, while the hustle of McCray, Full- er, and junior Seville Simonds kept the attack going. Promise Improvement All in all, the underclassmen dominated Garnet squad perform- ed in a laudable fashion through- out the season, and show the promise to improve still further in the win column when another campaign rolls around next fall. Personable coach Bob Beaudry de- serves and receives special praise from both the team members and all those concerned with Union College soccer for his capable ef- forts in his initial season at the Garnet helm. RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featurinq: HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS The well publicized offense of to make the ground game move, ry squa smce 1959 · In addi- of the Hobart goalie. Hobart came the Garnet gridders failed to showed that passing out of the tion, it is a young team support- back to take the lead once again realize its potential, especially on \c.ellar\ ca_n be ~one. Tom ed by an outstanding frosh con- with about fifteen minutes of the ground. Union was able to Httchcock tned and tned, but was tingent, and indicates brighter playing time left, and although pick up only 15 yards rushing as unl!-ble to. get off that \bomb\ prospects ~or th~ future. the Garnet fought courageously, , compared to Hobart's 16Q yards. whiCh . Umon has so successfully The h~rrlers Will compete once getting off a number of fine shots, It appears that Union's ground used this season. Tom had to more this seaso~, the post sea- the Statesmen goal was not again · game has deteriorated through be satisfied with his several fine N~ve~t~ Trt m New York on 1 to be dented. - Catering To Small & Large Parties Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week personnel loss. Injuries to such completions to his favorite tar- --------------------------- outstanding backs such as Bren- get, Marc Hurlbut. Collectively, dan Hutchinson, and most spe- Tom and Joe completed 12 out v \j cifically to sophomore speedster of 30 for 123 yards. Terry Dutton, se€m to have left Hurlbut, DeMichele Star quarterbacks Joe Stevens and Tom Hitchcock with nothing but Two of the finest performances pass plays. all season were delivered against Dutton, who received a serious Hobart by end and· punter Marc head injut·y several weeks ago Hur but, and linebacker Bob De- while leading the Garnet to an Michele. Hurlbut, discontent with impressive victory over Alfred catching several .of Hitchcock's University, was elected Athlete hard P.asses, contm?all~ rescued v \ \' . ' of the Month by the Union Col- the Umon offense with fm_e punt~, V V \, / lege student body in an election to keep . the Statesmen m thel1' ; ' · ~/ \ sponsored by Union's Block U own terr1tory for a lar~e part of ,,'- -~ 0 (j/'-c > ·- .. ~~:·_·_·'\.. o- Society. The injury sustained I the game. Hurlbut's ,five punts I..._) ''- , by the sophomore halfback was averaged 33 yards a p1ece. T_hat 1 17 ~ /, -\.' , 1 ....._ 1 serious enough to bave him leave o.ne p~nt was_ a well P,laced Side- the college as well as the team. lime kiCk showed that. Marc can Dutton, the first Union athlete reallv put. the ball rlght where C.&:'./· / /. c···_·)j to be so honored by the student he wants 1~. _ . . • body this year will return to the Once agam Bob De)YJ:1~hele was campus in January. select~d by t~e coachmg st~ff ~· \ I v 0 The Union defense appeared to fm• his defensive play as bemg Shown 'above is a key Hobart offensive play. be able to control the Statesmen's the. !llost o~tstal}din&\ gridder. --------------------------~ offense until quarterback Cullen This Is the thir~ tnne m the sea- called for halfback Ron Carlisi to s'?n that DeM1chele has been \ run what is almost an inside re- g1ven the Dutchmen of the Week verse with trap blocking. The ~ward. For the fi~·st five games Dutchmen appeared as helpless of t~e seas.on DeM~chele has been credited w1th makmg 89 tackles (21 of them last week) while recovering three fumbles. Every- one is wondering just how good Bob is: the answer is \terrific\ -and consistently so! We hope that the rest of the defensive unit will steal more than a few tackles from Bob to- morrow. For only with several. Dutchmen of the Week can Un- ion hope to avenge last year's loss to Williams. ·• ~~!l!JIIDW!!!Jiilli!i[gjmlli~~@l;j@@@~'\ijg]l' -;_:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::~~::::::= I Shaver Service I ~ONE DAY SERVICE ~ Repairs & Sales on ~ CAMPUS ~ all make• af ~ CLEANERS I Electric Shavers I All Work Done on Premises !ilJ . PICKUP AND DELIVERY I Phone FR 4-97 41 1i!J I ll51 527 Nott St., Schenectady, N. Y. :: 724% STATE STREET ~ Opp. Union College !ffi Phone EX 3-5472 ~~~~!!!)~~~~~~~~ RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES I All SUPPLIES POLYETHELENE CELLOPHANE· DRUG SUNDRIES NOTIONS NOVELTIES RENT ALSo SILVERWARE GLASSWARE DISHES J. NOGEE & SONS Inc. Successor to S. MOkRIS & SON Established 1888 WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS PAPER-PAPER BAGS STATIONERY- SCHOOL SUPPLIES Phone FR 4-4429 - 28-34 N. Broadway Schenectady 5, N. Y. Down to Louis', lee us go, Let the la8er freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR .4-8917 Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES • PATRONIZE YOUR ADVERTISERS f T ¥ f f f Y f f t f f f f t f f t f f T t f f Y T t f f Y t ·, f Y t t f T t T f T t t t t • nave's :Squire $hop CONTOUR CUT 10 FIT YOUR fiGURE ••• AUTHEMTICAlLY TAILORED 326 ST A'JE ST Dallr te .5:30 M I Tuer. & Thur. 1 tll t TEL. 377 · -3061 Mliiiiiilll :m: Ill · r:: ....... , ............. .

6 Wesleyan Students IFC • • • (Continued from Page 1) Travel To C.uba thenuniberofmembersunder2.0 will go from 37% to 51.% in any given semester. Among those who recently re· • It was announced that Bartle t · 1 Gorman, president of Kappa turned from a c.uban np were . but other things besides.\ He re- Alpha and secretary of the I.F.C. two ~esle~an graduates. They 1 ferred to an instance when a So- had .been appointed head of the were mterv1e~ed by the Wesleyan viet admiral visited a shipyard Student Council-I.F.C. Joint Com- ;\rgus. on the1r 1·eturn and those where \fishing boats\ were sup- , mittee on Residency. This will mterv1ews are reproduced below. , posedly being constructed. be a 12-man committee investi- Martin Nico~aus '63, was among Coatsworth had visited the same gating present and future hous- the 59 Amer1can st~dents. who place a few days before and re- ing of Union ,students. Members m?-de. the contr~vers1al s~udent ported that he had noticed noth- of fraternities in college-built tnp .mto Cub.a th1s summet .. Re- ing strange. Shortly the 1 ·eafter, houses, students living off cam- turmng to th1s country aftm sev- accounts appeared in United pus, students in regular frater- en weeks in Ct!ba these .studen~s States newspapers about a \secret nity houses, and students living found that the1r passp?rts we:e naval base\ in that same area. in college dorms will comprise the invalid, as result of the1r, s~ay lll Beat Look Pictured committee. The topics they will a country declared ofl'-hmlts by Coatsworth also complained study are renovation of dorms, the State Department. about newspaper photographers new fraternity dorms, and prob-. Honor Graduate who, he said, \always seemed to blems in maintaining fraternity shoot the two members of our houses. This committee will Marty Nicholaus was gradua~ed g h h d b d th · 1 c:ventually present au outline of llla -na cum· laude :last J·une w1th · roup w 0 a ear s, or e g1r o d d with long straight hair!' suggestions to the faculty. a Phi Beta Kappa key. Aw!ir · e He also said that only six mem- Mike Miller announced that a a Woodrow Wilson Fello~vshlp, he bers of the group belong to · committee to draw up is now studying the history of Progressive Labor movement, rules for next year will ideas at Brandeis. . · presently nd · t' t• b · t d Th' 'tt In an l 'nte'·view With the Mid- u er mves Iga wn y appom e . . 1s comm1 ee ~ d the House Un-Arnerican Activi- include several faculty members dletown Press, Nicol~ us state .two ties committee. as well as students. Freshmen will reasons he accompamed. the gloup \A z·eason for the jnadequate be polled on the effectiveness of into Cuba. First he smd: \I was coverage,\ he said, \might be the the present rushing system. Outing Club ••• interested in what was happeb- fact that wire service reporters ing in Cuba; ~n claims made y may not travel outside Havana, a the Cuban reg1me about advan<:es move made after Latine Prensa in eradicating poverty, P 00 r sdci~l reporters were prohibited from conditions and, as a stu en ' leaving Manhattan.\ The student (Continued from Page 1) wanted to find out myself: , group, however, was permitted to He stated: \I thu;k lt ~ ·the travel anywhere they wished, with Exploratimt of Caves right of evei'Y American clttzen or without an interpreter. An activity that the group is to travel where he wishes. 1 per- Freedom of movement also per- very much interested in is cave sonally wanted _to find out dwh~t mitted the students to speak with exploration. Up to the present was going on m Cuba an .t e people in natural surroundings. time this has been the chief en- government's ban made the sit~- \They invited us into their homes, deavor of the organization. The ation just that much more sen- talked to us almost anywhere, and club looks forward to its annual ous.\ · showed a tremendous amount of Lake George Canoe Trip when Nicolaus noted th~t A~encan warmth toward us,\ Coathworth weather conditions make it pos- press releases contamed mace~- said. sible. racies concerning the econom~c. =================== and social conditions in Casyo s Cuba. Concerning the . deve op- ment of the economy m Cuba, Nicolaus commented \I~ is ~ea~ly moving. I think it's sohd. It s m- comparably more healthy th~n be- fore the Revolution, accordmg tt people I've talked to and what read \ Nicolaus made no . co~­ ment on the political situatiOn m Cuba. .Mostly Wealthy Flea Accordin(T to Nicolaus the Cu- ban refuge~s fleeing .. Ct!ba after the Revolution were With small number of exceptions · · · largely 'h\ ncJ~hn Coatsworth '63, ret~u:ned recently from a well-pubhclzed student trip to Cuba. . Interviewed after the tnp, he repeatedly expressed displeasure over United States press .coverage and enthuiasm over the \mo~t cordial\ treatment extended hls group by the Cuban government and people. Coatsworth has claimed that the American press \distorted ~ot only what happene~the trip, SUPERIOR BARBERSHOP 601 NOTT ST. (Across from Nott Gate l Specializing in Fl.at TGlP & Ivy League Haircuts HOLIDAY BILLIARDS \Corner of Curry Road and Altamont Avenue\ - 10 Min from Campus over Cross Town Spur In Rotterdam Shopping Plaza • Special Rates 10:30 AM-5:00PM - LADIES PLAY F R E E Rates: .75 per hour for 1 player 1.00 per hour for 2 players 1 :50 per hour for 3 players 2.00 per hour for 4 players open 10:30 AM - 12:00 MIDNIGHT M DAILY - - - - - - - - - - - -COUPON- Worth SOc While Playing at HOLIDAY BILLIARDS I Offer Expires Nov. 15, 1963 :t.[ ~ICHAEL Presents: AL COHN- ZOOT SIMS JAZZ QUARTET Direct frorn \Half-Note\ in New York City THIS WEEKEND - AL COHN NEXT WEEKEND -ZOOT SIMS FRI.-SAT.-SUN. 9:00 P.M. - 3:00 A.M. 1617 UNION ST. PH. FR 4-3455 * * --- \ II TIIIUILBOBO BBAID BOUID~UP COI'fiST PRIZES: 1st PRIZE-Beautiful 19\ Portable Television by Ad- miral. 2nd PRIZE - Portable Stereophonic Record Player by Admiral. WHO WINS: Prizes will be awarded to any recognized Group or Individual submitting the largest number of empty packages of Marlboro, Parliament, Philip Morris, Alpine or Paxton. RULES: 1. Contest open to qualified students only. 2. Empty packages of Marlboro, Parliament, Philip Morris, Alpine or Paxton must be submitted in order to qualify. 3. Closing date, time and location will be announced in your newspaper. 4. No entries will be accepted after official closing time. * MARLBORO* PARLIAMENT* ALPINE PHILIP MORRIS* PAXTON * Odetta. • • Friday, November 1 , 1 963 and sing as often as possible on Forum . . . college campuses, where she feels most at home. .She learns most (Continued from Page 1) of her songs from records, and of investigating abuse and illegal (Continued from Page 1) alters and ;polishes them to suit actions in Civil Service in the a few local clubs_.:_\with passion- her needs. Although she once tr·i-city area. This type of oc- ate hate and venom.\ scorned the trappings of the folk cupation involves arbitration of Thus began a career that took singer, including the inevitable' seniority dispute~ am()n~. em- her to TV, the concert circuit, gUitar, she has added a bass ac-. ployees and checkmg fals1f1ed or and last May to Carnegie Hall. pmcoaniment to her perform- incorrect records. She has half a do~en briskly sell- ances. \It's like a magic car- LEARN TO BOX!! ing- albums on the market, will pet,\ says Odetta. \It puts all appear as the murderess Nancy of the babY in the cradle.\ BE A MASTER OF SELF-DEFENSE. ·EXPERT TRAINERS' SECRETS CAN BE YOURS! NO EQUIPMENT NEEDED. FORM A C:AMPUS BOXING CLUB AMONG YOUR FRIENDS FOR in the forthcoming film version of Faulkner's Sauctuary. What distinguished her from the start was the meticulous care with which she tried to re-create the feeling of her folk songs; to un~ derstand the emotions of a con- vict ditty, she once tried break- ing up I'ocks with a sledge ham- Patronize Our Advertisers FUN, SELF-CONFIDENCE AND ~EAL PHYSI- CAL FITNESS. COMPLETE BROCfiURE AND mer. On Campus Booked for concerts for a sea- son in advance and for a midwin- ter European tour, Odetta now lives in Chicago, tries to keep nightclub dates to a minimum Jack's Corner We Specialize in -PIZZA- • STEAK AND SAUSAGE SANDWICHES -Orders To Take Otlt- FR 7-9898 1555 Van Vranken .............._...-,.,.~~--~----.-\ ' LESSONS ONE DOLLAR. UNO TO: PHYSICAL ARTS GYM, 363 Clinton Street, Hempstead, Long Island, New York. ideas: \The future de~ends on people with ideas.\ This statement belps explain the work at IBM today: seeking and finding new ways to handle information, planning and building new machinery for the task, exploring wholly new methods .•.. I The demand for ideas has never been greater. I Check with your college placement officer and make an appointment with the IBM repre- sentative who will be on campus interviewing . I Ask for our brochures. I IBM is an Equal Opportunity Employer. I If you cannot attend the interview, write: I Manager of College Relations, I IBM Corp., 590 Madison Ave., New York 22, N.Y. I MOVE AHEAD: SEE IBM® NOV.l5, 1963 ............... ~ ·.• ,., . ······ .. ·.·:·· ~-· . . . .-.~: ,•.• : . . .. : .. · .. \'::' Pardon me if I sound as if the executive position I've landed deals with the whole future of the world • It does. Certainly, there's no organization today conduct- ing more vital business than the business of the United States Air Force. And very few organiza· tions that give a college graduate greater oppor- tunities for responsibility and growth. As an Air Force officer, you'll be a leader on the Aerospace Team-with good pay, a 30-day paid vacation each year, educational opportunities. How can you get started? For many, the best way is through Air Force ROTC. But if you missed out on AFROTC, or if there's no unit on your campus, you can still apply for Air Force Officer Training School. This three·month course leads to a com· mission as a second lieutenant in the United States Air Force. For more information about Air Force ors, see your local Air Force representative. U. S. Air Force ., ;; Vol. 95 . . ations, anc ecutive Co ; can Frienc tions. At garia,n Re ing Mr. R the rebels ady Eveni printed in I came Pres' Mr. Riel : sponsored Relations an inforn with Mr. his speech By Profe~ man of th trical Eng 1:0econd lee· maXi Se1 c Systems\ Thursday, Relates l With th oJ aut< ers of the Internatim and Minn becomi.ng ant. In h • man will of these c of moden 'This p: Hoffman with the Training ton, New use of l ' London E first subrr h mac computer cerned is ·Lars. · Direcl Profess• in comput ion Collel rects the puter loc Engineeri Hoffman, College, c Union fro . time he in the Be ies. Her He al'so ence Deg The Ch officers i All fresh ning for night. P this mee ty si noon. Primar on Mond dates for will be ~ between the Stu Boarding 5:00 to 1

tber 1, 1963 • • Page 1) se and illegal rvice in the type of oc- rbitration of among em- ~ falsified or , :Language Course Page 4 IXil EFENSE, EXPERT BE YOURS! NO IRM A CAMPUS UR FRIE .... DS FOR NO REAL PHYSI- ' . BROCHURE AND END TO: Vol. 95 - No. 8 ohn Richardson Speaks Thursday \ IBM 1dle 1ew new ~ver and Jre- •ing. ~ual I lrp., .963 f;~:~;9 : ··:~ ay conduct- ness of the w organiza. 'ater oppor· ader on the 10-day paid )rtUnities. 1e best way missed ()Ut ur campus, :er Trainlttg s to a com· the United e ors, see By Bal'ry Newmmt :e>---------- J ohn Richardson, Presi- of Radio Free Europe, be the Convocation on Thursday, No- 14, 1963. The title talk is \Frontiers of Europe is a private that beams news, and general information into Europe~n Communist terri- tory. Beginning its broadcasts in : · 950, the major purpose of R.F.E. ' been to provide unofficial con- ' tact between the free world and ' the Eut·opean satellite nations . . Richardson will descl'ibe the side of his organization's in reaching across the ron Curtan. Mr. Richardson is a graduate of College and Harvard School. F1·om 1955-1958 he Treasurer and later President the International Rescue Com- At the present time, he JOHN RICHARDSON as a Director of the. -------------- Policy Association, mern- the Council on Foreign Re- and .a member of the Ex- Pennlv'\ Committee of the Ameri~ · can Friends of the Captive N a- t ions. At the time of the Hun- garia,n Revolt, an article prais- ing M1~. Richardson's suppmt of the rebels appeared in the Satur- ady Evening Post, and was re~ printed in Readers Digest. He be- came President of R.F.E. in 1961. Mr. Richardson's coming is co- sponsored by the International Relations Club. It is hoped that an informal student discussion with Mr. Richardson will follow hls speech. Stanley Is Eulogized A memorial service for Dr. Philip Stanley, Professor of Phil- osophy, was held last night in Nott Memorial. Professor Em- eritus Harold Larrabee, Presi- dent Cartee Davidson, and Pro- fessor Sven Peterson conducted the service. Ph. D From Harvard Stanley was bom in Lynn, Massachusetts in 1903. He at- H ff G • tended Brown University and · 0 man lVeS Pennsylvania State College, where Sl • ~ma Xt• Talk he received his bachelor's degree e in 1923. He received both his master's degree (1925) and his By Mark Kacowitz doctorate (1928) from Harvard. PrOfessor Thomas R. Hoff- In 1927, Stanley turned down man of the Department of Elec- an oppot·tunity for a theatrical trical Engineering will give the career to join the Philosophy De- 1 • ~econd lecture in this year's Sig- partment at Union upon the urg- ma Xi Series. The talk, entitled ing of Larrabee. He se1•ved the Computers in Real Time college as an active teacher until Systems\ is scheduled for next 1957 when he retired to become a Thursday, at 8:30 P.M. research professor, in which ca- Relates Computers to Society pacity he served the college until With the ever increasing com- his death this past July 8th. of computations in to- Lauded by Larrabee automated world, comput- Larrabee described him as a ers of the types manufactured by man of distinctive flavor who Intern~tional Business Machine possessed intense interest in ideas and Minneapolis Honeywell are and talking. Much of his actual becoming more and more import- teaching was done in an informal ant. ~n his talk, Professor Hoff- style:-either as bull se&sions in man will try to relate the role the class room or at his home. of these computers to the. needs It was at this type of teaching, of modern society. according', to Larrabee, that Stan- 'This past summer, Professor ley was at his best. He gained ' Hoffman worked on a project the respect of both his colleagues with the U.S. Naval Device and the student body in whom Training Center, Port Washing- he was able to arouse a g·reat . ton, New York, concerning the deal of enthusiasm both for his ' use of computers at the New courses and the college. · London Submarine Trainer-the Stanley's main field of inter- first submarine trainer to employ est was skepticism, and he de- machines. The cost of a voted a great deal .of time to the compl].ter with which he was con- ·Scots philosopher, David Hume. cerned is about one million dol• Larrabee also depicted Stanley Iars. as a man who performed an out- Directs Union Compute-r standing job for both his depart- Professor Hoffman's interest ment and the college. He was a in computers also extends to Un- prominent member of the com- ion College itself, where he di- mittee that established the In- rects the use of the school's com- terdivisional program of study puter located in the Electrical in 1950. Under this progl'am two Engineering Building. Professor professors from different depart- Hoffman, a graduate of Union ments joined together to teach College, class of 1945, taught at one course. Although the pro- Union from 1946 to 1950, at which gram is non-existent, mainly be- . time he left the staff to work cause of its great expense, Lar- in the Bell Telephone Laborator- rabee pointed out that results ies. He returned to teach in 1954. of the experiment can still .be He al'so holds a Master of Sci- seen by the ease with which the ence Degree from Union. present departments co-operate The Class of 1967 will elect its with one another. Stanley also officers in the next two weeks. aided in the reform of the fresh- . All freshmen interested in run- men advisory system, which took ning for office met last Monday place in 1955. In adqition, he night. Petitions were issued at served as director of the Moun~ this meeting requiring at least tebanks and coach of the golf eighty signatures. Every candi- team for several years. must turn their petition in Active in Activities to the Student Activities Office In other than college activi- no later than 4:30 P.M. this after- ties, he was active in the Creigh- noon. ton Club, an organization of phil- Primary elections will be held osophy teachers of upstate New on Monday the two top candi- York colleges and universities, dates for each office. Commuters and was a member of the Ameri- will be able to cast their ballot can PhilosophiGal. Society, the between noon and. 4:30 P.M .. at American Association of Univer- the Student Activities Office. sity Professors, and Zeta Psi soc- Boarding students will vote from ial fraternity. 5 :00 to 7:00 P.M. (Continued on Page 6) Founded at Union College tn 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1963 Zurich Report Page 3 PRICE 15 CENTS Residency Council Committee Considers Formed Ricvalry Ciardi Joy Verifies Of Living Nott News Weekend Hootenanny Success ~?firs~£fr~o~ ~ws Hangs On Gallo-ws S • g for the year will appear this Monday. The publication, which 1 n .. e r s proudly states on its masthead The Gallows Singers -starring at the Hootenanny Friday night of Fall Weelrend. Next week's Fall Weekend will not only feature a concert by Odetta but, also, a rousing hoot- enalllly to be held in Alumni Gym Friday evening. The event will start at 8:00 P.M. and end at approximately 10:30, thus, al• lowing fraternities sufficient time for parties afterwards. The hootenanny will feature the Gallows Singers, an up and·~ scheduled to appear on the ABC- coming folk g1·oup who are pres- TV Hootenanny Show sometime ently appearing at the Bittel' , in the future. End. The Singers have appeared i Campus Groups Featured at a number of colleges, night 1 Also appearing at the Hooten- clubs, and folk festivals through- anny will be a number of cam- out the East. Moreover, follow- pus groups. \J &B\ are two ing a recent performance at Bos- freshmen, Jeff Hedquist and Bob ton Univ~t·sity they were banned Williamson, both possessing pre- from the campus. T}J.ey are (Continued on Page 6) that \This is .•. NOTT NEWS,\ is the official bulletin or the Class of 'oG. The News began last yeal' un- der the auspices of then freshman class President, Jack Seifert, with th<> intention of providing means for communication be- tw<>en the class officers and their constituents. It has the addi- tional purpose of providing a forum for the entire college of the sort that was lost with the <iestruction of the Knot Bulletin Board. Its contents range from editorials to satires, sports news to campaign promises. Robert Hoffman, the editor of the News, said, \It will be a forum to air controversies and pet peeves, pri- marily of the .sophomore Class, but open to everyone.\ He went on to request that anyone who has a gripe submit it either to him, at Phi Epsilon Pi, or to Jack Seifert, at Delta Upsilon. President's Report Monday's issue will contain a . President's report, covering such matters as Ol'ientation week, Fall Weekend, the Union-Skidmore Cheerleaders, and the student council. The issue will also have a satire on the faculty's council's · deliberations on the Dav-idson cal- endar and its alternates, an ac- count of the class' participation in sports, and an editorial by Hoffman. This is the fourth time the Nott News has been published. Previous editions came out last planned, one in Fall, Winter, and This year three issues are being year in Ma1·ch, April, and May. Spring.

2 Qlnurnr .Puollshed ttndays durtng t•ht.i school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. ;.>;a- ttonaJ Advertisintr Representative. !\:atlonal Advertising Service, liH ... Collt.•g-e Publishers Representath·e. 4:!0 :\Iadison Ave~. N. Y. C. ltituats Et.lttonal 011H.:~. Uld Uym, l'uton ·C'ol!(>'gE'. Publication Offic-e, 8che· nectady Printing Company, 502 Hroadway. l~ntPred in !he Rchf'· nP('tady Post Utfice as Heocund Class M·aJI .:\latter. ~uL~t.:l\lPtion l:it_• a , opy: $3 a y••nr Ut=>ll\'t•r:Ni anywheor:e In the United States. SENIOR BOARD DAVID I3ERE:-1SO.:-: '6L .............. FR 2-6583 ..................................... Editor in Chief (\'1.;:--:s I.EI<'LORI!: '64 ..................... Dl 6-9895 ............................ lluslness ~lunager SJ:\10:--: SOIJO '64.... . ......... DI 6-9848- ..... .. ......... :llanaging Editor ~~~;:~D ~~~;g~~ : :~··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: •••...• :.:::.:::::·.-.·.:·· .. ::···-····--··--S~~~~= ~~::~~ LAHI~Y HOHOWITZ '6il..................................................... . FPature Editor WlLL!Al\1 T. WlXNE '34 ......................................................... ------- ............... Advisor Compulsory Courses: I A Union student must currently take a foreign lan- guage, a course in formal thinking, English 1, History 10, one additional course in each of Divisions I and II, and two additional courses in Division III in order to receive a B.A. or B.S. degree. As this system presently operates, it is stifling to both the faculty and students and is hinder- ing the intellectual development of the college. These re- quirements are ostensibly an attempt to produce well- rounded students, but have achieved virtually the opposite result. Students do not gain any real understanding of academic disciplines different from their major. Because students are required to take English 1 and History 10, these departments have grown at the expense of others. In both Divisions I and II there are one, two, or three man departments existing in contrast to the large English and History departments. However, the profes- sors in these two departments do not find that they have an advantage over their less numerous colleagues. Such a large proportion of their time is spent in teaching fresh- men that both departments recently opposed the Davidson Calendar on the grounds that they would find it almost impossible under the new calendar to squeeze upperclass courses in among the introductory courses. The students do not enjoy the introductory English and History courses any more than their professors. They sense their professors' disinterest which they soon catch. Some students come to Union with a specific interest in one field of the Liberal Arts but find they cannot take a course in that discipline because of other requirements. The freshman can easily feel that he has graduated from high school but has not yet entered college. The solution to this problem does not lie in giving all freshmen unlimited opportunity to elect whatever courses they please. Some can easily adjust to any intro- ductory college course. Others must be given a more for- mal introduction to college level work. Union is at present failing both groups. Freshmen who demonstrate either on their College ··Boards or on proficiency tests that they are able to success- fully handle .college level work should immediately be al- lowed to elect any introductory course in any department in Divisions I or II. At present this system is theoretically in effect, proficiency examinations being available for the interested student. In practice, however, very few stu- dents actually :pass these examinations and receive exemp- tions. The History 10 proficiency examination, for example, tests a specific knowledge of the History of Western Civili- zation. It does not test the student's ability to handle his- torical or philosophical problems. Thus, a student who is completely competent to handle a course in Political Science or Economics is restrained from doing so because he is unfamiliar with the specifics of the Renaissance. We doubt whether most Union students, taking the same proficiency examination four years after having had History 10, would do significantly better remembering specific details. Those students who do not pass the proposed profic- iency examinations should be exposed to courses that will prepare them for the various disciplines in Divisions I and II. In Division I we propose for these students an English composition course during the first semester. During the second semester a general Humanities .course should be given by the entire Division as an introduction to litera- ture, art, and music. One or two well-planned lectures should be presented each week to all the students in the course, and small discussion groups should meet once a week. We feel that if this plan is adopted, the faculty teaching load could be reduced, and both faculty and stu- dents would be more intellectually stimulated. We advocate a similar plan in Division II. A year course should be offered in Social Science with all depart- ments participating in both lectures and discussions. The boundaries between the disciplines in the Social Studies are becoming less clearly defined, and a course showing the similarities and differences between the various disciplines in Division II would be immensely helpful to any student unfamiliar with them. Fall Weekend: Story of Odetta By Tom Kt·ehbiel When I was approached with the idea of writing a column con- cerning Odctta, the featured en- tertainer ut the upcoming Fall Weekend, I was naturally a bit hesitant. My main spheres of musical intel'est do not generally include folk singers of this type and I frankly did not consider myself familiar enough with this sort of music to comment on her work. The bulk of my collection of folk records and of my contact with folk artists is in the area of Negro blues, and gospel songs, for this is the folk idiom which has had the most direct influence -on jazz forms, and Odetta is not in this t1·adition. Classical Music Odetta's musical roots are not in Bessit th and Ma Rainey, but in European classical music. She has a train- ed voice and in college sang in the chorus in performances of Verdi's Requiem and Bach's Mass in B- minor. Her first -profession- al performance was in a west c of Finian's Rain- bow. As a result of this early training, Odetta's efforts to sing blues are very musical but do not generally have the emotion- al impact of other more familiar with the style. Vitality and Emotion Although Odetta discovered folk music late in life, she has convincingly assimilated its mu- ~ical cha•l'<tdedstics. Her pedorm- ance~ are full of vitality and emo- tion, and she involves the audience in her songs to an unusual degree. She $ays that when she discov- ered folk music she discovered how dreadful the world can be. Certa,inly this is true, in folk mu- sic of every type there is a great deal of sorrow and bitterness, but Odetta's songs are not all morbid. She has a great sense of humor and makes an audience laugh as well as c1·y. There is even an ele- ment of humor in the comparison of the buxom Odetta with her l'elatively smaU guitar to her diminutive accompanist, BiU Lee, playing a large bass viol. Published Statements In her published statements Odetta has indicated a preference for ,performing before college audiences. She does not feel that her singing is as effective in a night club. Because of this, I be- lieve we can expect a fine per- fol•man<le fi·om this very popular woman. She is not a Bessie Smith, but that is probably just as welL There are few people here who would be able to sit through a performance of this style. Th.e tempered blues offered by Odetta will be powerful enough for them. I feel confident that anyone who takes advantage of this opportunity to hear Odetta sing will come away quite satis- fied and probably delighted by what he just heard. Letter to the Editor To the Editor of Concordiensis: We would like to protest the idiocy of playing the mismatch against Susquehanna tomorrow. What sense is there in injuring Union players in a game that so obviously will not be a contest? The only people who could be interested in this game cannot be interested in football; they are only interested in seeing a senseless, ego-inflating slaughter. The Susquehanna players would get more practice scrimmaging with their own team. It would be more sensible to play Ohio State, because then we Cant pus November 8 A Faculty Bridge Tournament is being held tonight at 8:00 in the Hale House Faculty Lounge. Anyone interested is invited. On Saturday, November 9, at 8:30 a Faculty Square Dance is being held. November 9 The Outing Club is holding a Halloween Party in Knox Cave with Albany State and Russell Sage this weekend. For . ~~re information about the act1v1t1es and purposes of the organization phone Steve Egemeier, 346-9733. The Christian Association inD vites all to a toy painting, com- munity service project at 2:00 P.M. Saturday afternoon in Sil- liman Hall basement. Refresh- ments and prizes. November 10 Rev. John Coventry Smith will speak at the Community Ves~er Service at 7:30 P.M. in Memonal Chapel Sunday. Novembe1· 12 The Union Chapter of the Soci- ety for the Advancement of Man- agement is meeting on Tues~ay at 3:30 P.M. in Room 305, B~1ley Hall. Mr. Milton Enzer, Direc- tor of Public Relations of Yale and Towne Manufacturing Com- pany will speak on the \Role of Public Relations in Business Man- agement.\ Rabbi I. Newman will speak at a convocation in Memorial Chapel at 11:30 A.M. Rabbi Newman is speaking on Chassidic Sect backg1·ound with respect to the Dybbuk. The New Danish Quartet will perform in Memorial Chapel at 8:30 P.M. Tuesday. Convocation credit is available. Formed in Copenhagen in 1952, this young group rates first in \High Fidel- ityts'1 comparative record rat- ings. The program will include Haydn, Mozart, and Debussy. November 13 The Arnold Air Society will meet in Bailey Hall 305 at 8:00 P.M. Wednesday. A speaker has been invited. would at least have the consola- tion of losing to a nationally known .school. The football team should be lauded for its sacrifices to the college in the name of sport. But where is the sport in matching a featherweight against a good heavyweight? The administra- tion should have the courage to notify Susquehanna that it will not consent to risking its stud- ents for the sake of scheduling mistake made years ago. Joseph W. Rudmin, '64 Alan Buni11, '64 James Ballentine, '64 Briefs November 14 John Richardson will speak at the convocation Thursday morn- ing at 11:30. Richardson, the Presjdent of Radio Free Europe, will describe the human side of the :activities of his organization in reaching across the Iron Cur- tain. At 8:30 Thursday evening Pro- fessor Thomas Hoffman of the Electrical Engineering Depa:r.t- ment will speak at a Sigma Xi meeting. The topic will be \Digi- tal Computers in Real Time Sys- tems.\ There will be a meeting of the Union College Chapter of the Northe1·n Student Movement at ~:00 P.M. in the Old Chapel.. All mterested students are urged to attend. There will be a diner-meeting of the Physics Society at 6 'P.:M:. on Thursday, November 14 at Mother Ferro's Restaurant. All interested Physics Majors should sign the list posted in the Physics Department Library by 4:30 P.M. Tuesday, November 12. Freshmen Elections Schedule: November S-Election petitions are due today in the Student Ac- tivities Office by 4:30 P.M. November 11-Primary elec- tions will be held. These elec- tions will eliminate all but two candidates for each office. Vot- ing will be between 5:00 and 7:00 P .M, in West College Lounge. November 13-There will be a meeting in Memorial Chapel for all Freshmen at 7!00 P.M. At this meeting all candidates will be introduced, and the presiden- tial candidates will give brief speeches. November 14-Final elections will take place from 7:00 to 9:00 P.M. in West College. SCHENECTADY, N. Y.- The 11-mile Hoosac Tunnel & Wil- mington Railroad, running in Massachusetts and Vermont, is the subject of a new book by Ber- nat•d R. Carman, Directol' of Pub- lic Relations at Union College. Th.e book, \Hoot Toot & Whis- tle,\ will be published Nov. 20 by Stephen Green P1•ess of Bl'attle- boro, Vermont, specialists in books about the Green Mountain state. Friday, November 8, 1963 F ellini Presents Search For A Meaning In Life By Robert S. Hoffman Friday, t StudE R The fol by Stevt Zurich ex• in Switze The hil in Berlin odd kilorr ment top£ glas that between From all this waH many st (from thE buildings cause of close to 1 gloomy s \8%\ is, as its title suggests, Fellini's account of the making of his 8%th movie. (He had made six movies and three shorts previously.) Like most works of art, it presents an intensely per- sonal experience· with universal implications. It is tlile work of a director who, in order to ful- fill himself and maintain his reputation, must face the prob- lems of philosopher, poet, and, ultimately all thinking humanity. In it Fellini, who at the outset feels it i'ncumbent upon him to present an \answer a simple, tenable interpretation of life, in- trospects. He also observes the people and institutions about him, and his perceptions offer insights on many levels. directions, also turns to his in- tellectual friend, the writer. The writer proffers brilliant insights but is devoid of humanity.. He does not consider feeling, and drowns emotion in cold analysis. To this Fellini rea-cts by throv,·· ing the writer's written critique of the planned movie onto the train platform, and then picking it up. He rejects the man but needs his rational pe·rspective. Later, in another brief flight of fancy, he imagines himself Ol'· dering· the intellectual hanged, yet it is clear that the latter's criticisms are valid to some ex- tent. The man who is complete- will strangle himself with them. Rejects Vision 1 foreshado seen on t He continues to seek, but finds po answer :for the swarms of peo- ple who supply an unending bevy of questions. He avo'ids them and puts them off, and looks be- yond reality to a vision for his answer. The lovely :female ap- parition in white, which comes at the end of \La Boice Vita\ reappears throughout \8'1j 2 .\ However Fellini, although he wants to turn to it as the basis for man's hope in an absurd uni- verse, cannot find a meaning with which to associate it. It repre- i sents a purity, a sincerity that is his romantic conception 'of a so- lution to life. Yet he cannot ac- cept purity and sincerity as the answers in themselves. Each time his vision comes to him it disappears, and leaves him alone in reality. Quest For Outlook The main theme of the movie deals with Fellini's quest for a valid outlook or attitude towards life. In the opening scene Fel- lini (Guido) is immediately trapped in chaos. He dreams that he is in a car with locked windows. The car is itself en- snared in a tunnel traffic jam. The atmosphere is stifling; the air is hot and still, and no sounds are heard. Fellini attempts to claw his way out, and is dispas- sionately observed by an imper- vious humanity that looks on from the surrounding cars. A man seductively strokes a wom- an's arm, and thereby increases the intolerable heat of the situ- ation. In a final effort Fellini kicks his way out, and flies away, above the world of crawling tri- via. But he is spotted by a man while soaring over a beach, and is dragged down into the sea. We soon learn that this dream is analogous to his actual situation. Not having been able to elude reality, Fellini turns to his past and his contemporaries for in- sight. Upon ex:amining his child- hood, he discovers the great place of his Catholic education in his background. He therefore seeks advice from the Church. But in a cinematic fantasy and in real- ity, his meeting with the Car- dinal proves worthless. In the fantasy the Cardinal tells him it is not man's place to be happy, and then intones the belief that there is no salvation outside the Church. A door slowly closes, shutting Fellini out. The Church proves as sterile as it appears in his remembrance of his child- hood. Fellini, who is searching in all EXCLUSIVE EUROPEAN FlLMS! Joseph E. Levine preoento FEDERICO FELLINrS 1!1 ENB!SSY ~CIU~S RElEASE While Fellini is in the process of realizing- that he can find nothing to say to the anxiously awaiting millions, he comes into conflict with the two people clos- est to him, his wife, and his ar- tistic father, the old director. Be- ing charming and 1·espected, he considers the world in relation to himself, and is, for aU his aware- ness, blindly intolerant, He im- petuously 1•educes the old direc- tor to tears by calling him an old fool, thus 1·ejecting the wis- dom of experience. At this point the old director ominously warns Fellini that he is not the man he used to be and thereby re- minds him of his fear of ap- proaching importance. Re also as- sociates himself from ~s wife by relegating her to a positi()n of un- importance. . (He ca:tfhot, how- ever, escape his consci;~nce as we see in several dreapt scenes). She does not share lpi:l life, nor (Continued on Page 4) Now Thru Wed! At 7 and 9:20 11 7 Mohawk Ave., Scotia RECORDS OF COMEDY - JAZZ - CLASSICAL - FOLK AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS TAPES AND RECORDS FOR RENTAL ON CLUB PLAN APEX MUSIC KORNER State St. at Corner of Broadway Phone FR 7-1112 For three Generations ..... Those Who Know •. Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Maurice B. Graubart & SonS \\3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST •. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY •I To my ways to the S-Ba through point Cll through cause th~ name wi1 and, sho\ the agre• through ] ed. The but therE Because mistaken sary to c Checkpoi :~ hours the line collar sp< and whi' the disti of Arne: Customs and then The fi on walki is one o: are empt ings are the war. and glit1 vertisem window the Wes with pe< behind t tisement Khrusch them as etc. Yo1 main str named : the 6 o' perhaps which \ very fev main sq· been 1·el and on from th building: about tll munists East Be Di De par are Corn into om saleslad: you?\ sales pE chandisE of obvi' Euro-pe a was not displays der Con article go and ONE I c Cl All¥ PIC 527 N 3 Opel

8, 1963 Life to his in- writer. The liant insights He feeling, and analysis. by thro\v· critique onto the then picking the man but peTspective. flight of himself or- tual hanged, the latter's to some ex- is complete- with them. but finds of pee- bevy avoJds them looks be- for his :female ap- which comes BOice Vita\ \8o/2·\ although he as the basis absurd uni- meaning with It repre- i that is of a so- cannot ac- cerity as the Each to him it him alone the process he can find anxiously comes into people clos- and his ar- director. Be- he in relation to his aware- He im- old direc- him an the wis- At this point nously warns not the man thereby re- fear of ap- Re also as- h,is wife by osn.·· ii·on of un- how- as we scenes). lWl life, nor 4) Scotia FR7-1112 NELRY Friday, November 8, 1'163 3 Student Abroad: Report From Zurich Various Itnportant Canlpus Issues Discussed ·During Interview With Dean C. W. Huntley By Steven Isser ; Ans. Basically, there are two. I one need apologize a bit, for thP The following article is written , coarage you or discourage you to I First,, I've alwa.ys taught and ; general level of the student body. by Steven Issei', '65, Union'S I buy it or help you pick the right 1 te1_1chm~ takes tli~le away. from; Quel3. What specific areas of' Zurich excllange student currently 1 !'ize or cohn·. Nohody rarf'R. The ~this office. There Is a feeling 0 .n: the College do you see most in in Switzerland. 1 1 .. fruit vendors,. generally some of . 'the Board .of Trustet>s that this need of change re-rxamination . . . . the most colorful and interesting : should be a. full time position. My 1 m· review? ' ' Th b t t t tt t I : preference, of the two alterna-1 · , . . e .tg!?es O']:,I'IS ·~ rae wn peo.ples all over Europe,. are .not ', tives is tea·ching. : . Ans. l ~on t kno.w ~[Uite how to m Berlm Is the Wall ; a few seen hawkin\' their wares making ' th t 0 ·t odd kilometers. of stones a. nd ce- speci'al dnalos and t'he· 1' 1 ·ke, bu.t , Seronuly there are personal rea-: a~sw~r 18 qu.es wn. ut·, nH:s k f I L 'sons. I staded out to be a full 1 p!es~mg '?-eed ,Ul te do th~ best ment topped with bro ~n. ~1eces. o rather are sitting listlessly by time instructor, and there are sHH' po~s1ble Job !n . the <:las~roum. glas that nmrk the diVISIOn ll?e their stalls waiting for someone things 1 'd like to try in the labor- Thm~ o.f what 1s b~g-tnnmg to between .E~st and West Berlm. to ask for some frutt. Why? The atorv-colll'ses I'd l'·ke t ·t ·h happen at Albany State. In. ten F1:om all s1des as you. approach State pays their salaries every · . 1 . 0 eac · years we'll be m very serwus this waH ~nd East Berhn, ~ou. see week and they'll receive the same ,Qt!es. Ho'! d~ you new our ad- c0111petition for studt>nts. W l' many strll destroyed bu1ldmgs amount of money if they sell all , missions .policy· . can't hope to compete in plant. (f~·o~ the war) and several empty their fruit or if they sell none. . Ans .. The person who Is. ~ean There must be scmething to justi- bmldmgs (probably evacuated be~ Prices in East Berlin are about 1s Ch~1rman of the Adm1sswns fy the fifteen hundred dollars we cause of the danger of living too the same (except for a few items Co:t;~mJttee .and hence .ought to be charge for tu.ition as acg-ainst per- close to the-Wa:ll.\ . It:s a very .like coffee and cigarettes which · sa:Isfied, With the policy,. B~ a:r;d haps four hundred dollars at a gloomy scene, but th1s IS only a are very expensive) as in West· lmge I d say our pohcy IS ;m state supported institution. Th<· foreshadowing of .what's to be Bet·lin with one small difference. · good shape. ,We've made. m1s- thing that we can provide is a seen on the other side. The East Berliners, a great many takes, but we ve learned m the better job of instruction. The Way In ·of whom work in State controlled process and. gotten a lot of first- S 1 1 f . .1 To m\ knowledge there are two J'obs, do not receive the relatively rate students. ma-l c asses, or lllstance, WI 1 ' · . . . always have an appeal and a real ways to enter East Berlin: by high wa~es workers in West Ber- · Ques. Are you sat1sf1ed w1th merit contrasted with Jectur- the S-Bahn (elevated train) or lin receive. Therefore to the East DEAN C. WlLLIAJ\1 HUNTLEY the ·'?resent studen~ body, with the ers addressed to a class of five through the well-known Check- Berliner prices in his city are ac- By Robert Hoffman quality of t!te Umon students? hundred students. point Charlie. Most people go tually quite high. Many of the Ans. I thmk we've come a long . . through Checkpoint Charlie be- great number of tourists bring As the second in a series of in- pel'Son sitting here in this chair way in the last ten years. Of Ques. There ·lS cons1d~rable con- cause there they can leave their with them packs of cigarettes and terviews with :prominent campus I stiH a third. Mainly, the Dean of course, to be completely satisfied\ troversy over convocation attend- name with the American sentry;· hand them out to East Berliners personalities, this week Concord- the College is responsible for the is not humah. I don't think any-1 (Continued on Page 4) and, shot!ld they not be back at. when asking direations or the like. iens. is is presenting .an interview I academic side of the College. the agreed upon time, a search with C. William Htmtley, Dean of Everything having to do with . 11 Reason For Dissatisfaction the College. learning is a function of th1's of- through East Berlin WI be start- ed. The S-Bahn is much faster, This system operating in East Ques. First, how would you de- flee. Helping individual students but there is no safety measure. Berlin appears to take the initia- · fine the responsibilities of the of- is a very large part of my job. Because most people (as did I) tive or, better, the opportunity fice of Dean of the College? Assisting the Faculty indirectly, mistakenly think that it js neces-' for initiative away from man,.and Ans. That's a very .difficult as regards to what goes on in the sary to check their names at the· attempts to regiment him, putting .question to answer, realiy. I sup- classl'Oom is another, for the Checkpoint,. I had to wait in line him down into a one class society. uose it is defined differently by stre.Qgth of the College is defined !3 hours to cross the bo.rder. In The equalization of all has meant different people. Ptobably the by an academic environment that the Hne were many button-down the holding back of the many iacuity sees the position one way, makes good people want to 1·emain collar sportshirts, tennis sneakers, \wanting to get ahead.\ the trustees another way, and the here. Finally, someone has to see and white socks (to Europeans • .. • .. •,. \ • • , • • • , ,. , , , • , , ,. , , , • , , .,..,.. , .. , , .. , • , , , , • , , , ~ to it that the wheels turn, that the distinguishing characteristics the C(lllege functions smoothly, of American college students). which is no small job. Customs are usually little trouble, ·D E W I T T ., S Ques. What are your reasons and then you're in East Berlin. for resigning this position? The first impression one gets on walking into the East sector is one of emptiness. The streets are empty, and many of the build- ings are still uninhabitable since the war. The flashing neon lig}Jts and glittering billboards and ad- vertisements and even the shop window displays that help keep the West Berlin streets teeming with people are not to be found behind the wall. The only adver- tisements are the pictures of Khruschev and Ulbricht depicting them as heros of the workingman, etc. Ym1 walk along one of the main streets (Karl Mat·x Allee re- named from Stalinallee) during the 6 o'clock rush hour and see perhaps 5 cars pass by (one of which will be a tourist's) and very few pedestrians. One of the main squares, Alevanderplatz, has been rebuilt by the Co1nmunists and on every street radiating from this square new apartment buildings can be seen, but this is about the only propess the Com- munists have made in rebuilding East Berlin since the war. Different Way of Life Department stores and the like are Communist contl'Olled. I went into one and was not met by a saleslady saying, \May I help you?\ In :fact there were no sales personnel at all. The mer- chandise which, by the way, was of obviously jnferior quality to Euro]Jean goods and of high price · was not arranged in 11yecatching displays to attract customers. Un- der Communism if you want an article and can pay for it, you go and buy it. No one will en- ONE DAY SERVICE CAMPUS CLEANERS All Work Done oil Premises PICKUP AND DELIVERY 527 Nott St., Schenectady, N. Y. Opp. Union College Phone EX 3-5472 Wally's D,i n e r • Home Made Pies Good Coffee • 325 Erie Blvd. Open Daily 5 A.M. 7 P.M. Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118. 120 JAY STREET 44''44.t. 4 .l.44444*A44A444**444A,4At++++4+4 4 4++++ ........ RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES DRUG SUNDRIES NOTIONS NOVELTIES RENTALS: BAR SUPPLIES POL YETHEtENE CELLOPHANe SILVERWARE GLASSWARE DISHES J. NOGEE & SONS Inc. Successor to S. MORRIS & SON Established 1688 WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS PAPER-PAPEil BAGS STATIONERY- SCHOOL SUPPLIES Phone FR 4·4429 - 28-34 N. Broadway Schenectady 5, N. Y. Dave's :Squire $hop 326 ST I.'JE ST Dcally .to 5:30 · ll • T11es. & Thur. •tn t t: ,L 4 4 + J. + 4 * 4 4 4 4 ;, 4 * A 6 f + A 6 * 6 f1 _;, + +, ! + + 4 • 4 4 +. + 4 6 4 4 4 + .. + 4 • SUPERIOR BARBERSHOP 601 NOTT ST. (Across from Nott Gate) Specializing in Flat Top & Ivy League Haircuts ALL WOOL BLAZERS - Black, Camel, Loden 19.84 - 25.00 334 State St. We gladly Cash your checks HOLIDAY BILLIARDS \Corner of Curry Road and Altamont Avenue\ - 1 0 Min from Campus over Cross Town Spur In Rotterdam Shopping .Plaza • Special Rates 10:30 AM-5:00PM -LADIES PLAY F R E E Rates: .75 per hour for 1 player 1 .00 per hour for 2 players 1 :50 .per hour ior 3 players 2.00 per hour for 4 players open 10:30 AM - 12:00 MIDNIGHT - DAILY - - - - iiiil - - - ·- - - -COUPON- Worth SOc While Playing at HOLIDAY BILLIARDS .offer Expires Nov. 15, 1963 Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES CAMPUS INTERVIEWS November 25, 1963 ENGINEERING SCIENCES ALL DEGREE LEVELS • Electronics • Mechanical • Industrial • Engineering Physics • Mathematiccs • Statistics RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT • Computer Technology Hardware Design Software Research • Communications Systems Propagation Research Complex Design * * * * Engineers, Mathematicians, and Physicists should contact their COLLEGE PLACEMENT OFFICER for an appointment with an NSA representative. No test required. NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY WASHINGTON, D. C. area An Equal Oppor,tunity Employer I

4 Friday, November 8, 1963 Review. • • willing to try. And that is the 1 t • best man can do. n ervtew • • . Similar to Bergmann (Continued from Page 3.) This then is Fellini's answer ance rules. What is your attitude command his honesty, for he has to a chaotic world. It is in, some towards mandatory attendance no conception of living with :peo- ways similar, in its emphasis on rules? . (Continued from Page 2) ple. He lives amongst them with tolerance and love, to Bergmann's Ans. I don't know who wrote the misdirected attitude of the \Tllrough a Glass Darkly,'' \Sev- the editorial in Conc()rdy last docto1· in \Wild Strawberries.\ enth Seal,\ and \Wild Strawber- week about this, but it came very 1-Iis values include compassion ries.\ Both men contemplate an close to answering the question. but many of his actions neglect absurd universe, both have found I've had experience at another New Chinese Language Course May Be First Of Asiatic Series it. religion inadequate (God is a college that tried to set up a lee- Sees Error I spider in \Through a Glass Dark-. tures and concerts program. lt As the film reaches its climax, ,[y,\ and the ignorance and bru- was a vohmtary one, and it was Fel!ini begins to understand the tality ef the religious men in a failure. I quit when only two error inherent in his quest for \Seventh Seal\ is frightening), students showed up for a lecture. an answer to life. When the and both have emerged v:ith a. Ques. Are you in favor of a \woman in white,\ Claudia, hope for humanity that stems scholar in residence program here, comes, she is wearing black. And from love of man for the things and how would you like to see it her only reaction to his proposed he finds around him. This ~orne- run 1 movie is that the protagonist what paraHels Camus' :philoso- Ans. One can deal in the nb- should not expect an answer to phy i~ \Myth of Sisyphus,\ ~or stract .and be in favor of such a come to him because he has not there IS an acceptance of an m- prorrram; or one can deal In con- learned to love, to give, to go :herently mean~ngles~ ex,istence, crete terms and say it's defined forward and meet life. Fellini and a concept mvolvmg a mean- by the person who.comes. If the realizes he has nothing to say, ing, a joy, an order superimposed scholar is a generous and warm and when he is confronted with by man on the chaos he faces. person, the program would be a the questions of the waiting \Slh\ is a magnificent achieve- good addition. If on the other world, he proves his wife's bit- ment. The acting, score, and pho- hand, he is aloof and uses Union ter assertion that he has nothing tography are excellent. The use as a hideaway, then we have lit- to tell anyone. Having rejected of symbolism, imagery, dream tle to gain. . . h ~t c~mu~ '\OUld ca'll \phl!os There's no tremendous magic ln w \. · '\ >3 \ · · · • sequences, and snatches from ophicnl suicide\ in his rejection famous pieces of music is ex- such a program. It will be simply of faith and religion, he responds tremely effective. A typical ex- one good thing. The sum total of to the shouting, Cl'ashing con- ample of brilliant directing is re· good things is what make this a fusion before him by contemplat- .fleeted in the playing of Wag- better college. Lng crawHng under the table and ner's \Ride of the Valkyries'' Ques. 'The question of living Gft' Hhooting himself. At this point, during a scene depicting the old, campus has been raised by many I e Fell ·n· succeeds 1\n co under!!'t'aduates. Are yoa in favor 1ow ver, l I - impotent, degenerating visitors to - ordina-ting the experiences of his a health resort. of letting any students live oft' quest and discovers that every· campus? China and came to our country in 1953. It is remarkable that he has a neal'ly flawless command of · the English language considering that he never ventured out of a , Chinese speaking area until his migration to the United States at the age of nineteen. Reverend Yin arrived in Schenectady in Decem- ber of last year and', upon the . suggestion of Professor Ferguson, agreed to undet•take his position at Union. It is of interest that the First Reform Church of Sche- nectady, from which the Rever- end comes to Union, helped to start the Union Academy, an in- stitution that blosomed into Un- ion College. Concerned with Speaking Chinese Rev. Yin's primary concern is to teach his students to speak Chinese. The tex:t, as well as tapes employed. to aid in the in- struction of the language come · · from the Yale Oriental Institute. During the early part of the course, the material is picked up largely by ear and tapes, avail- able in the library and the lan- guage building. \R()manization\ Employed one wears white, and that to find The movie offers a constant Ans. Part of this question is meaning in life one must join stream of comments on society not debatable. The Trustees have hands in a great circle with all and human nature which are of- stated that this is a residential mankind and dance. An almost ten funny, sometimes biting, and college. As far as space permits; Frommian attitude towards love this wealth of insights and mix- everyone must live on eampus. and understanding asserts itself. ture of comedy and criticism In a slightly broader view it All Man is accepted and loved for helps sustain a high level of en- must be recognized that many 1.-vhat he has to offe1·. The aged, tertainment throughout. For seniors outgrow their fraternal the clergy, the mystics and the Fellini above all is a great show- ties. They have senior thesis to little boy with the fife who plays man and \8~\ is a veritable cir- write, books to read. They want a poignant tune and leads the cus of frivolity and profundity. an environment that will give circle, are all included. There is Perhaps this is the explanation them freedom and privacy. Reverend Yin teaches the new Language Department Chinese Course. Instead of trying to :familiarize the class with the tremendous By Paul Shei'Win number of Chinese characters, a technique called \romanization a type of phonetics, is being used, whereby sounds of the Chinese dialect are spelled out in letters of the English alphabet. Eventu- ally it is hoped that the students will gain a reading knowledge of the language. The particular form of Chinese being- taught is Kuo-Yuo, or the national dialect, no absolute proof that this new for the widespread popularity of The Bowdoin College scheme, outlook will prove feasible. Luisa, \8If:>.'' with audiences that admit recently printed in C()neordiensis the wife, is not sure the new be- to riot completely understanding has promise and I find it a very ginning will succeed, but she is it. exciting possibility. For those with an interest in Oriental cultUl'e and dialects, a course is being offered by the Language Department to both day and evening students in Chin~se. In our modern world, the sleepmg giant that once represented China has awakened and shakes the en- tire O'lobe with its menacing rum- bling;. It is essential that Ameri- cans learn about this now very potent force in international af- , They helped make a major advance in medical technology fairs. The teachel' of this class, Reverend Stanley Yin, empha- sized that in order to understand the Chinese people it is important to he familiar with their language. Came to U. S. in 1963 An associate minister of the First Reform Church of Schenec- tady, Reverend Yin was born in NEED YOUR SHOES REPAIRED? WE MEND SHOES Ideal Shoe Repair 1565 Von Vranken Avenue which is spoken by the people of Northem China in the immediate vicinity of Peking. Aside from the ten students en- rolled in the program, two prom- inent ladies of the community, Mrs. Carter Davidson and Mrs. Gilbert Harlow at•e auditing it. The class meets on Monday's 1;1nd Wednesday's from 4:0() to 5:20. East Asian Complex Foreseen · Although this project is ex,peri- menta1 in nature, the Language Department feels that this counw might be the start of an oriental complex concerned with the lan- guage, customs, and politics of Southeast Asia. t f 9 f f T 9 f t f 9 f f f t f f f 7 f T' f f 't 'i' t 't T f\T f 'f' \t' f T T '¥ V Y' f f 'f f f 'f + UNION INN 517 UNION STREET :L ........................................... . .• • yet there's not an \M.D.\ in the house These six men were members of a team that developed an x-ray system so advanced that, even with exposure to x-radiation reduced by 80%, images come out much sharper on the diagnostician's viewing screen. By bring- ing to the task the unique talents, experience, and educational background of each member, this team of experts has made it possible for radiologists and phy- sicians to do a better job of medical diagnosis. Of these six men from General Electric's X-Ray Department, Milwaukee, four have degrees in engi- neering, one majored in physics and math, and the sixth in economics. Not one was trained primarily in medical science-although, of course, their Depart- ment works closely with the medical profession. Nor did any of them anticipate, when in college, that their major subjects would be put to use in providing improved tools for diagnostic medicine. But they did recognize-as their record shows-that better-tnan- average performance could qualify them for challeng- ing jobs with a forward-looking company like General Electric. There are hundreds of such teams at General Elec- tric today. Their make-up varies, and almost e·very field of specialization, technical and non-technical, is rep- resented somewhere in the Company. The projects are just as varied: nose cones for missiles, desaliniza- tion of sea water, computers,or power plants to squeeze more electricity from a pound of coal or a gram of atomic fuel. The more than 36,000 college graduates at General Electric comprise one of the largest and most varied pools of talent in the nation. But the Company's future is, in many ways, wrapped up in people still in school and college. As projects increase in size and com- plexity, so will the need for able young people. People who demonstrate, through their college record, the best use of their educational opportunities, who know the meaning of excellence, who understand the dif- ferences between specialization and narrowness,· breadth and shallowness. Such people, working to- gether, will make up the teams of the future, and be the architects of what we call progress. The team (left to right): Jerry E. Rich, Georgetown Col- lege, Ky.,'53; Robert/. Mueller, Marquette, '44; William A. Mayer, Unlv. of Cafif.,'47; John P. Kelley~ R.P./.,'47; William G. Waggoner, West Va. Univ., '33, Pratt lnst., '37; Arthur Pruneau, Univ. of Vermont, '52. ~gress Is Ovr Mosf lmporllnf Ptotlvd GENERAL fl ELECTRIC Patronize . Our Advertisers DO WHAT .OAESARAND NAPOLEON COULDN'T DO ••• Call honie! Half the fu.n of doing something great is telling people about it. Mdms and dads get a kick out of .hearing what's up .... even when it~s nothing im- portant. Vau'lllik~ hearing their . voices, too. Why not call tonight? Long Distance rates are lower; re· member, every eveningafter6:00 and all day Sunday, Extra low for many calls within New York State after 9: 00 p.m. @> lfew York Telephone FIELD'S LIQUOR STORE 3 8 Erie Blvd, (Across from Train Station) Save On Our Own Olde Village Private Label Spirits We Deliver Free FR 4-6846 KNAPP SERVICE LTD. Erie Blvd. & Liberty St. Phone Dl 6-5900 COMPLETE VOLKSWAGON ' & IMPORT~ PARTS AND SERVICE • Moving Oct. 1st, To 1000 State St. Friday, No1 Gat 1 were una i Iiams am: ·the grouJJ · team picll In spitE weather, tl trated on n go. Quarte: Tom Hitch 28 passes 1 of the 17 G etl to react l'rs were p· ln the · Williams' intercepted ! the Union Ephman to the errant four plays through th l The extra Midway Williams 1 fort sprint zone on ~ Chapman · to give the halftime. Uni< Union he · late in thE ! Hitchcock- bega!l to , shall pullE and ten y2 the Purple \Ht::l broug at the 32, over on do On the l 1 ai1· the \ 68 yards t< Comfort p ing in the then carrie '' the Gamet man split extra poin After a: which foll Iiams scor serve Pur Jones tra keeper pla the Garne dived in f han boote< Iiams had at this po c Well int ion displa: of which t l'ntly capal with injur off after E down, the 70 yards t Art Mal off 23 ya: the Garne hit Wall5 worth nin< handofl' fr, play, but fore he c , Rcrimmag< men incur alty-the \'arders o Dutchmen BE A MAST! TRAINERS' S EQUIPMENT BOXING CLU FUN, SE LF·Cl CAL FITNESS LESSONS ON PHYSICAL AR 363 Clinton Hempstead, l New York.

er 8, 1963 es in that he of considering out of a until his States at Yin in Decem- upon the position terest that of Sche- Rever- helped to my, an in- into Un- Chinese concern is to speak well as in the in- come l Institute. rt of the picked up avail- the Ian- :familiarize a a used, Chinese in letters t. Eventu- students of particular taught is dialect, people of immediate en- two prom- and Mrs. it. 1;1nd to 5:20. Foreseen is e:x;pe ri- Language this counw oriental h the Ian- politics of TT'fft'f+ Spirits St. RTS 1st, St. Friday, November 8, 1963 5 Garnet Travels To Susquehanna BasketbaiiSq __ _ T d T r: To Face Albany I n Quest of rent-en . ous upset Four lettermen were among 17 hopefuls reporting to neophyte basketball mentor El Evans at the initial varsity tryouts. Lead- ing the veterans is senior captain Toby Lustig, top rebounder and regular .pivotman on last year's. squad, which posted .1:2 wins against 6 losses. Defensive sp~c­ ialist Mike Sahr will vie to mam- tain the starting berth he held last year as a junior. Senior Mike Holowaty and junior Gary Brown were top reserves !ast season, Holowaty at the pivot and Brown in the backeourt. By Dave Phemister The Dutchxn.en gridders veled to Williamstown, rt1Vli:l.1:>1~ctl;'uusetts last Saturday play a sound Williams Col- eleven. Gusty winds light rain and occa- snGw flurries across . gridiron on which the ·. Garnet suffered a 34-6 de- . The Ephmen, playing at full strength for the first time all season, put together. i a rushing machine that the injury-riddled Dutchmen were unable to stop. Wil- liams amassed 303 yards on the ground, while the Union Reinforcing the returnees are six sophomores advaneing from frosh coach Chris Schmid's tu- telage. Hoping to break into the Union lineup are Larry Rivkin, AI Hrdlicka, Dave Kasper, Ray Teed, Ric Apter, and Larry Fab- ian. Rivkin led the frosh in scor- . team picked up only 39. ,.,, ing, followed by Hrdlicka, who also \vas effective under the boards. Kasper was the work- horse and top rebounder for the . In spite of the inclement ... : ................ : ... :. . ................ .... ........... . , . . ........... . .. ... . ............ . ...... . weather, the .Dutc~I!l~n. co~~enk Pete Wenger (87) in action against the University of Rochest~r · on n:akmg t en air a ac. three weeks ago before li.e was sidelined with a leg injury. The ~IX ' go. Qua:rteibackks Joe 1 Sttevden:tn~ I foot one, 190 pound senior from Delmar, New York, was a def.ensive Tom Hitchfcoc 107 comp de e b t flo stalwart and a fierce blocker on offense, and his loss has been a \\OPEN THE. G!1iE u ----------~--------~--------------------- ------- Football Statistics 28 passes or yar s, u -ye ·'t' 1 of the 17 Gamet spirals that fa1l-c _ 1 _ 1 _ 1 _c_a_o_n_e._~-------------------~-- ed to reach their intended receiv-~ . • l'l'S were pulled in by the Purple. From the Purple 45 Stevens ·SktersAnnounce • In the game's initial frame, collected 30 yar?s on passes . to . Williams' halfback Lee Comfort Brennan and. ~Iller, and Umon I • • } M • ~ intercepted a Hitchcock pass on tl11'eatent:d Wllhams from the 15 flltla eetlfle the Union 32 to set up the first yard st~'lpe .. End Marc Hurlbut Ephman touchdown. Comfort ran snared ,. sho1t p~ss to move the , the errant toss back to the 10, and leather to the s1x, and Stevens four plays later Fearson crashed scored on a. keeper over tackle .on through the Garnet line to score. ~~e 1 fe1t /lay. The extra pomt The extra point try was wide. 1c'. ~I e · . . Midway in the second frame, Williams scored agam m the Williams scored again as Com- ct:mtest's final. chapter as J01;es fort sprinted into the Garnet end ~It Sheehan w1th a 34 yard stnke zone on a 52 yard pass play. m the final seconds of play. Chapman kicked the extra point Susquehanna Tomorrow .. to give the Ephmen a 13-0 lead at Tomorrow, witl1 a2-4 record, the ' halftime. Dutchmen travel to Sellingsgrove, Union Drive Stopped Union hopes rose, momentarily, late in the third quarter, as the Hitchcock-Marshall combination began to click. Swingback Mar- shall pulled in passes of seven and ten yards, and Union was on the Purple 39. However, t~e drive wa::; brought to a screechmg halt at the 32, and the Ephmf'n took over on downs. On the ground and through the 1 ai1· the \\'illiams el£'Y<'n covered 68 yards to paydirt in seven plays. Comfort picked up 25 yards rush- ing in the successful thrust, and 1 then carried a Fearson pass over the Gamet goal line. Again Chap- man split the uprights for the extra point. After an abortive Union drive I which followed the kick off, Wil- liams scored again. This time re- serve Purple quarterback Jeny Jones traveled 49 yards on a keeper play to put the pigskin on the Garnet 8. Ken Watson then dived in for the score, and Shee- han booted the extra point. Wil- liams had the Dutchmen shut out ' at this point, 27-0. Garnet Scores Well into the final chapter Un- ion displayed the offensive power of which they were more consist- l'ntly capable before being plagued with injuries. Following the kick- off after Ephman Watson's touch- 4! down, the Garnet moved the ball 70 yal'ds to score in si:x: plays. Art Marshall returned the kick- off 23 yards to put the ball on the Garnet 30. Joe Stevens then ·•: hit Wally Baker with a pass worth nine yards. Baker took the handoff from Stevens on the draw ··;: .... ·{; .. ~ ED KESSLER Pa. to do battle with po\\'erhouse Susquehanna. After dropping their opener, the Susquehanna eleven have won their last six games handily, Having lost the better of their backs, it is expected that the Garnet will take almost ex- clusively to the ail' lanes, where they now have the best chance to inflict the most damage. Last Saturday the Dutchmen lost another key player for the season. Ed Kessler's speedy, de- ceptive Tunning attacl( will be sorely missed ton1on·ow and ne;xt Satmday. He is sidelined for the season with Steve Hopkins, in- (Continued on Page 6) play, hut was brought down be~ ~JiiU(fi; tA# fore he could cross the line of scrimmage. On the play the Eph- men incurred a personal foul pen- ' alty-the last of their seven . 15 yarders of the day-to give the Dutchmen a first down. LEARN TO BOX!! BE A MASTER OF SElF-DEFENSE. EXPERT TRAINERS' SECRETS CAN BE YOURS! NO EQUIPMENT NEEDED. FORM A CAMPUS BOXING CLUB AMONG YOUR FRIENDS FOR FUN, SELF-CONFIDENCE AND REAL PHYSI- CAL FITNESS. COMPLETE BROCHURE AND LESSONS ONE· DOLLAR. SEND TO: PHYSICAL ARTS GYM, 363 Clinton Street, Hempstead, Long Island, New York. FRANK FERRJ\RO Wholesale and Retail fruits and Produce - Fresh Daily - Twice Daily on Campus 1231 CRANE STREET Schenectady, N. Y. Dl 6-1763 _..,. Q fi:jt ZjjltA:z~ %1- The Union College ski team will hold its first meeting of the present season on Tuesday, No- vember 12 at 11:30 A.M. in Room 304, Bailey Hall. The team is once more being ably coached and directed by Pro- fessor Alfred Thimm. Professor Thimm is looking forward to the return of the nucleus of last year's team as well as a large freshman turnout. Professor Thimm felt that it must be stress\ eel that the squad is open to all freslunen as well as upperclass- men interested in skiing whether they have had previous competi- tive experience or not. Schedule Expanded In the upcoming season the team is expanding its number of meets to include the New York State Intercollegiate Ski Associ- ation meets as well as the \C'nited States Eastern A-mateur Ski As- sociation meets. The N.Y.S.I.S.A . meets are held among the col- leges in New York state. Mem- bers of this league include West Point, Hamilton, Colgate, Syra- cuse, R.P.I. and Cortland. In ad\ dition to intercollegiate meets there are scheduled U.S.E.A.S.A. meets every weekend in Vermont, and Eastern New York. Training Sessions Coach Thimm plans on begin- ning training sessions immedi- ately in the gym and moving as soon as the snow flies to Pattel'· sonville, New York, where the Schenectady Winter Sports Club slopes are located. In addition to the ·weekly prac- tices two training camps are planned. The first will take place at Killington Mountain on the 7th and 8th of December. It will be an instruction clinic on the theory of racing under the direc- torship of the Killington Ski School, U.S.E.A.S.A. officials, and the Middlebury ski coaching staff. The second session will take place at Mad River Glen, EASTERN AVE. Quick Clean Cleaner WASH DRY 25c 10c 823 EASTERN Ave. ijl Jay Jewelry Co. 315 STATE STREET ::biamon~ . . . Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. Arnold Fisher '50 _ _I Garnet yearlings . Evans Replaces Witzel Rushing: Coach Evans replaces Carl Wit- Pl c · . 1 · ayer ar!'les zel as varsity coach. Witze re- signed last spring to accept an Kessler, hb-sb ........................ ...... 22 administrative post at Geneseo Dutton, hb ................. · ... · .......... · . 25 State Teacher's College, and de- Hrdlicka, hb ........... ............ ·· .... 20 serves much credit for boosting Baker, hb ........................................ 27 the cag·ers' won-lost percentage Steven><, fib ..... · ... ···· .... · ............... 18 to .667. Evans is a 1952 gradu- Hutchinson, hb .............................. 51 ate of Cortland State Teacher's Union totals ............. · ................ 190 College, and comes to Union from Opp. totals ...................................... 303 Herkimer High School, where he Passing: coached basketball, track, and' Player Att. cross-country while serving as the Hitchcock, qb .......... .. 82 school's athletic director. Previ- Stevens, qb ................ 54 ous to this stint at Herkimer, he McDonald, qb ............ 2 collected four sectional champion- Hutchinson, hb ........ 1 ships in basketball in five years \C'nion totals .............. 139 at Canajoharie. Opp. totals ................ 77 Comp. 34 30 1 0 65 40 Yds. 441 336 4 0 781 489 Running Club Player Tds The Union mentor declined a Marshall, sb-hb ................ 6 Conv. R-P 0 comment on the prospects of the Dutton, hb ........................ 2 coming season, indicating that it Hutchinson, hb .................. 1 is still too early to evaluate the Hrdlicka, hb ...................... 1 club. He expects to develop a Kessler, hb-sb .................. 4 \running ball club,\ and insti- Stevens, hb-sb .................. 1 tuted a rigorous six-minute run Union totals ...................... 15 as part of the conditioning pro- Opp. totals ............. .... ....... 17 0 1 u 0 0 1 1 ~et..Yards Ave. 1~7 !i.:J 157 G.:l 1>7 ;{.:l 72 ') ~ --1 51 2.R 119 z.:; 593 :D 959 3.2 Int. TDs COlH. 7 G 0 3 :l 0 1 () 0 0 0 0 11 8 (I 7 7 0 Con.v. K FG .. Pts. 5-3 1-0 :3!1 0 0 12 () 0 8 4-~ 1-0 8 () 0 24 1-0 0 6 5 0 ,.'99 11 1 118 gram. Fans interested in a pre- *Includes safety view of the Evans offense can ---;~::;:~~~;;:~:;;:::;:~~::~~:;~;:;:;;:::;:~;:;;:;:;::::=;:::;~ attend the Garnet's first scrim- 6 mage tomorrow afternoon in the Alumni Gym. The Dutchmen are scheduled to try their wings against Albany State at 1:00 P.M. Twenty-five members of the Class of '67 turned out as can- didates for the freshman five. Coach Chris Schmid, in his sec- ond year as frosh pilot, is pl~~s­ ed with the interest and ability of the young cagers. Both teams open the season on Tuesday, December 3 with home contests against Norwich. Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian • American Food Disrount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 11 15 Borrett St. Vermont, over part of the inter- r-iiiiiiii-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiOiOiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-.oiiiiiiii;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;-. session. This will be an inten- sive work period devoted to the advancement of techniques . The team had a successful sea- son last year in U.S.E.A.S.A. meets and in duel collegiate meets against R.P.I. and is looking for- ward to a highly successful year in its new undertakings. SAVE ON OWN BRANDS! Liquor Store 511 UNION ST. EX 3-3111 EX 3-~ 11 o ~EWEST LU~CH 715 Albany Street Specializing: - HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE - DINNERS AND SANDWICHES -TAKE-OUT ORDERS - Union Students Favorite Spot - (Serving Sc:t\lenect(lqy Since 1921 ) Open 7 Days Per Week 6 A.M. - 4:00 A.M. Seniors •••• YOU ARE INVITED TO ATTEND The Group Meeting On Career Opportunities with IBM THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 9:00 p.m. IN THE OLD CHAPEL Marketing/Sales Systems Engineering Customer Engineerin§ Product Development Manufacturing Programming Accounting IBM m IBM is an Equal Opportunity Employer INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES

6 Friday, November 8, 1963 Quartet ••• Counc-il Ct·ard· Hootenanny ~ividual campus p~;!l'formers, hav- St I . ., • • • 1 • • • mg appeared in a number of cof- .. an ey • • • (Continued from Page 1) . (Continu.ed from Page 1) fee houses and folk festivals. ( Continued f p l) (Continued from Page 1) Th d f h manca, and the Royal Danish rom · age VIOUS expenence in the singing, . e ;ress or t e hootenanny (Continued from Page 1) Ballet and Music Festival. aid equipment pool and hire a ''The Poetic Ideal\ and instrumental field. \The Wlll. be mfm·r~1al and everyone is At the service no music or Second America11 Tour man to run it full time as well. Towards the beginning of his Gandydancers\ are a group of adv1sed to brmg blankets as the· scripture reading was presented, The quartet's first American as to shelve books. Since under talk, Mr. Ciardi quoted Robert five Phi Gamma Delta brothers floor will be the only seating ac~ as 1s the custom. Instead Lar- 1.our was in 1960 and brought fav- the plan, the number of students Frost's wise words, \Poetry be- who feature sophomore Pete Blue commodation. Admission to the rabee read a tribute to hi~ long orable views from coast to c 0 ast. working in the library will be gins in delight and ends in wis- !1-s their lead singer. Dee Singer show will be free with a weekend time associate, President David~ The group is presently on its reduced the matter will be in- dom.\ At the conclusion, Ciardi IS another freshman who sings couple ticket. son read excerpts from the nu- second American tour, which vestigated further. repeated the quote and indirectly and plays an expert flamenco gui- Queen Contest mer0us letters received by Mrs. opened earlier with a: concert in Under old business, the motion suggested his own definition of tar. The Friday Night event will also Stanley upon the death of her Edmunton, Ontario. The tour that the Campus Plant Commit- poetry. The child must develop an A group of musicians from Chi feature the judging of the Week- husband,. and Prof. Peterson consists of 30 concerts from coast tee be empowered to investigate innate oy of form and rhythm. Psi, who call themselves \The end Queen. The dress for the ~ompleted the program by read- to coast. any defacement of college prop- What differentiates man from the · Mohawk Valley Singers,\ have queen contest will be based on. mg excerpts from his will. As Recordings of the quartet have erty by individual students or ape is his ability to make beauty already been heard here on cam- the theme, \Come as you want;\ Prof. Larrabee said, it was \an been made by Valois, a French campus groups, was defeated with words. And, if the child's pus a number of times and should The name of each fraternity's en- unconventional service for an un- firm which specializes in record- The Council decided that ade~ natural rhythm is not awakened, liv~ up to their excellent repu- trant in the queen contest must conventional man. He wouldn't ings of chamber music. For this quate proof of guilt was too hazy he wiH never know \what it takes tatwn. Julian Olf is perhaps be handed. in to Jack Seifert at )1ave wat:ted it any other way, as c0mpan,y, the group has recorded a term and therefore defeated to he a man.\ Yet, in Ciardi's the most experienced of the in- De~ta Upsll<!n before 7 P.M., on l1t was JUSt the sort of person the two quartets from Haydn's the motion. opinion, great poetry is more than Friday everung. that he really was.\ Op. 77 and quartets by Tartini, The dates for Winter and Jazz this, l'hythm. It is a fullness of Unitarian Church Dittersdorf, and Mozart, and won Weekends have been tentatively truth timed with the ,beauty of 1221 Wendell Avenue critical acclaim in \High Fidel- set at February 14-15 and March sound. The birthright of a poet, Minister: William Gold !ty's\ comparative re~ording rat- 21. states Ciardi, is \.diction 1·hythm, mgs. metaphor, and form.\ Without - s E R ,M o N ~ The concert is being spo11sored the use of this birthright the poet RELIGION AS A QUEST jointly by the college's lectures F 0 0 t b a II . will nevrr couple his knowledge \Religion. if it were merely a matter of and concerts committee and the . • 8 • with true greatness. logic, would 'be another branch of sci- 1Jnion College music ,department. ence, like chemistry. But a person's The I •ec 1 'tal 1 ·s fr·ee to the publi\c (Cont1'nued from Page 5) f d H . 1 religion reflects his own psych\•c needs eate · ami ton on Alexander Cl ,ed!'t WI'll be gl'ven for convo-' . r d b f' th b and· development; given freedom, his re- . JU e e ore e season egan, Field in this year's Fall Weel\:end ligion should change as h& grows.\ t·ation attendance. Terry Dutton, who suffered a head contest. - R. H. w. injury against Alfred, and Pete The conclusion of the season Residency. • • (Continued fr:om Fage 1) tee will also concern itself with present requirements for stud- ents who live off campus and the possibilities of these require- ments being loosened or tight- ened in the future. When the committee is actually formed, the members will be giv- {·n a week to solicit student sen- timent through interviews and to make up lists of possible sug- g-f.'stions to be presented to the · committf.'e. Any students inter- ested in serving on this commit- tee are urged to contact Bart Gorman at Kappa Alpha. Tinn; Ce;ntE .. Jewelers \Your Jeweler Away From Home\ Wenger, who is benched with a looks a hit unnerving at this point, Sunday Service 10:30 a.m. bad leg. In the last quarter of the but it is almost axiomatic in foot- our church. Williams contest, Ed Kessler ball that the undet·dog makes an caught his hand under a face all-out eff0rt to foil the odds- guard as he was tackled on a makers. Last year the Garnet kickoff return, and broke his played their best football against wrist. In the R.P.I. game he highly-tauted Susquehanna; al- scored three times, and averaged· though the Dutchmen lost by a better than ten yards per cany. decisive margin, they exhibited On Saturday, November 16, the such noble effort that no one could Union Eleven will meet unde- but praise them. HOW OPEH •• ~. JAY BILLIARD lOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAl. RATES for College Students LADIES WELCOME FREE PARKING IN REAR ...................... _ ... ~ We invite you to visit- us. RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featurinq: HOME STYLE IT AllAN FOODS STEAKS . t - - I CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Sma II & Large Parties - Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week ' I .. , r - BUY WITH CONFIDENCE Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. ~~·~:~~~-~-~-~-~~~-L~-~~-+++-~-·~=J_[\~·=J=}· 1 . ~-~-wy-~~··~-'·t~-0~• A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT VAN CURLER MUSIC SHOP 501 Stale Street Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in o11r RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR ..t-8917 Midtown Barber Shop RECORDS JAZZ POPS MUSIC 515 UNION STREET (Next to Union Inn) Student Discounts CLASSICS Specializing in Restyling of Hairdos Each head is given personal care It's a 'snap' with ~RROW_;_ \For want of a horse, the battle was lost\ ••• so said the poet, but never let it be said that for want of a collar button your date was lost. The new Decton oxford Tabber Snap by ARROW gives you the trim, good looks of a traditional tab collar without the fuss and fumble of a collar button. Tapered to trim body lines and labeled \Sanforized-Plus\ to ensure perfect fit washing after washing. Keep that date in an ARROW Decton (65% Dacron*, 35% cotton) oxford with Tabber Snap collar. In long sleeves $6.95 *DuPont T.M. fo7ita ;polveater fiber · ; .. ,,. ' l : i ; .1 ~ ·----.:---; ., : .! J i ., : .. c..c .. _. I. '. ·-'--···•· .., . .:.. l ~ I ' i INTERVIEWS WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 13 If you are in the upper half of your class, we'd like to talk to you regardless of your major. Ap- pointments may be made through your Placement Office. Opportunities and Job Satisfaction With the Bell Tele- phone System you will begin in a management position. You'll be given an opportunity to become familiar with a spe.ctrum of challenging manage- ment, research or man- ufacturing positions. Only the sky is the limit for a bright col- lege graduate in a field that offers you not only a present but a future as well. NEW ENGLAND TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY t ' ~ i -: ~ i .~ .• ~. 1 :.....J-i y--H '··+····; ~~(I ·+·i e-ri ;--r-: EE)Ii -W ,_w ' ' :J;~ • .!. .. j : L I -: -~.J amplpyme,rtt. p(J INT p Vol. 95 · Ra~ • Fn The 1 president divulging man of th ' the electic were Mar urer; and When inJ I'ike stated ed and plea campaign 11 friendly on forward to in the futt Pike furt investigate mnging a mornings il freshmen. whether th' tional or i bill, Pike h can be ins1 the second Organizil another of ~tart imme' ly looking un commit Some thou! to submit1 Weekend E shortly aft Stokvis E to institutE in order th: of 'be well ried ·out.\ The Fre1 their StudE tives next tions will night, and Thursday E tatives will Council af1 Phil In 1' The Pl team openE end at QuE ty-six schc the natiom topic, \Res Governmer the Opport ucation to uates.\ Perf Alan Je Wolfe '64 tied for fir negative t records. over Albar lege, Syra• \'ersity. ' tive team and lain from Edin beating D to Queens and LeMo~ On the Philos rE Mann '66: a 2-2 re over Iona land Colle to Boston College. team of : Floyd Ro: and were teams fr01 mouth, Le Rhire. The Phi are becon they havE (lnce deb2 Dartmoutl The var to Tufts < her. Dr. Jo emeritus < lege, will meeting Alumni C the Dutc! the camp1: vember U His top Prof. I from 192 from S01 ford, and sylvania. All alu nectady ~ tend, ace Paige, Jr Reservati' Henry J, alunini r

)er 8, 1963 • • Page 1) o music or .s presented, nstead, Lar- to his long dent David~ ·om the nu- red by Mrs. ~ath of her . Peterson 'm by read- is will. As it was \an 1 for an un- tie wouldn;t ;her way, as ; of pellSOU IT <- -1 .;. 3 ' of to A.p- Jgh on an- ns. ~he !Ol- eld nly Ltre ~ ~ '~; __ J ' ; ! ! 'i·::::l t·-t-j ! f 1 ~-- .;. .. ( ~ i l ~ f·-+· j f--1-·.! I . g j 'i . i :~Ji ;,.._._;,.....,._~ . i i >-'F\\ POLLOCK INTERVIEW Page 3 Vol. 95 - No. 9 I Founded at Union College 1n 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1963 COUNT BAS IE Page 2 PRICE 15 CENTS Ray Pike Elected Odetta, Gallows Singers, Football Freshntan President . . Philos Debate In New York The Philomathean's varsity team opened its season last week- end at Queens College where for- ty-six schools gathered to debate the national intercollegiate debate topic, \Resolved that: The Federal Government Should Guarantee the Opportunity for a Higher Ed- ucation to All High School Grad- uates.\ Perfect Philo Record Alan J eff1·ey '65 and Stephen Wolfe '64 led the Philos by being tied for first place with five other negative teams with perfect 4-0 records. They scored victories over Albany State, Brooklyn Col- lege, Syracuse, and Rutgers Uni- ''ersity. The other Union nega- tive team of Edward Smolar '64 and lain Orr, visiting student from Edinburg, had a 1-3 record beating Dartmouth while losing to Queens College, St. Joseph's and LeMoyne College. On the affirmative side the Phi!os represented by David Mann '66 and Alan Bunin '64 had a 2-2 record, scoring victories over Iona College and Rhode Is- land College, while succumbing to Boston College and Providence College. The second affirmative team of Bill Spaulding '65 and Floyd Rose '65 fared less well and were winless; they lost to teams from Queens College, Dart. mouth, LeMoyne, and New Hamp- shire. The Philomathean novice teams are becoming well seasoned as they have had practice experi- <>nce debating at Colgate and Dartmouth. The varsity next plans to travel to Tufts College early in Decem .. her. Dr. Joseph Doty, professor emeritus of history at Union Col- lege, will speak at a luncheon meeting of the Union College Alumni Club of Schenectady in the Dutchman's Rathskellar on the campus at noon Tuesday (No- vember 19). His topic will be the Civil War. Prof. l;Joty taught at Union from 1928-61. He l1as deg·rees from Southern Methodist, Ox- ford, and the University of Penn- sylvania, All alumni living in the Sche- nectady area are invited to at- tend, according to A. Winslow Paige, Jr.,. president of the club. Reservations should be made with Henry J. Swanker, director of alumni relations at the college. Speaks On Chassidism To Entertatn Fall Weekend-Goers Enzer Lectures On Management

2 Qlournr Publlahe<l Fridays during the school Y<Oar by the Stl!dent Body of l'nion College, St•henectady, N. Y. :>:a- tlonal Advertising- RepresentatiYf' National Advertising Service. Inc .. College Publishers Represent a! ivl\'. 420 :lladlson A\'e., N. Y. C. nirttsts F.ditot·lal Office, Old Gym, l'nion College. Pui>llcation Office. Sche- nectady Prln ting Company, 602 ~roadway. E~ntered in the Sche- nPctauy Post Office as Second Class ~lail !\ratter. SuUscriotlon lf.ic a roiJy: $3 a yt>ar Ueliw•red anywl1ere- m t.he [!nitPrl St.a.ff•s SENIOit BOAUD DAVID llBHE;:o;SO.:\\ 'Gl .......... FR ~-6683 .............................. Edi.tor in Chiel l Ytll'\8 LEFLO!ll·l · GL ................... Dl 6-989& ............................ Business 1\lanager SBIO:-;\ ~ODO '61. . .......... Dl 6-9848 . . ........... Managing Editor ROBERT KRA~IER '65............... ....................... ... . ............. News Editor HICHARD ERDOES 'G;i .................................... .... . .............. Sports Editor LAHHY HOHOWITZ '6;i.................................... . .............................. Feature Editor WILLIA:\1 T. Wll'\:\'E '34 ................................ ........... . ....................... Advisor JUNIOR HOARD :\lichael Berson '64 .. ..... .... ........ ... ............... Malee- Up Editor :\lark Strom '65 .................. -~···--....... ................................................... Copy Editor RiC'hard Slfton '66 . . ··--·---············-· .......................... Assistant Feature Editor Robert Hoffman '6G ................... .............. .............................. Assistant News Editor David Voll{UUtn '66 . ................ ..l.sslstant News Editor \\'llliam Naufftus '66 ............................................. Exchange Editor Glen Holzhauer '66 .. . ................... . ............................ Associate Editor Jeffrey Land<>r '66 .. . ............................................................ Associate Editor Peter :\lilsi<Y '6 6 ...... ............ ..... .............. . .... ............ .... .................. Associate Editor Arthur )lorgenstern '66 .......................... --· .................................. Associate Editor Henry Ru8rhmeyer • 66 . ... ........... . .... . .. Associate Editor Mark Obenzinger • 65 ........................ . ..... National Advertising Manager Rob<>rt ~. Hoffman '65 .................................................... -·· -·--···--·---··· .. Cartoonist Sherwood Lee '65....... ..................... .. ................ . ......... Contributing Editor Richard Hesch '66 . .. . .... ..... .... ......... ... Local Advertising Manager Robert Klein • 6 6 . . .................... . ... .... . ... ..... .. Subscription Manager Robert Bo·.JChak • 66 .... .. ... ..... . . .... ........... ...... ... Circulation Manager Required Courses: II Much has been said and written about the gap be- tween the \two cultures,\ science and the humanities. In an effort to bridge this gap Union has required all Liberal Arts majors to take at lesat two courses in Division III, one of which must be a laboratory science. Though the aim of these requirements is commendable, the results are not. We feel that Division III should reevaluate its course offerings to Liberal Arts majors. The vast majority of Liberal Arts students get vir- tually nothing from their required science courses. They make no effort to understand any of the major principles of the science they are studying, being content to memorize a few facts that will get them successfully through the course. The fault for this attitude does not lie solely with the students. Presently, most introductory courses in Division III place more emphasis on a factual introduction than on the importance of particular theories. The Science major is exposed to these theories as he takes more upper- class courses, but the HElmanities or Social Science major must be satisfied with the few facts he can glean in one year. We suggest that Division III try a new approach in teaching Liberal Arts students. Instead of teach- ing these students isolated facts that they soon forget, a course should be given emphasizing scientific method and the relevance of particular scientific advances to society. We propose a two-year course, each semester of which would be given by a different department in Division III. In the one semester allotted it, a department could not expect to give the student any sort of detailed knowledge, but it could set forth the problems a scientist faces in one particular discipline and the ways he goes about trying to solve them. - . An experiment like the one we are proposing may not be successful. Howev€r, considering the present situation, a one or two year trial would be surely worthwhile. An Irnprove1nent The Student-Faculty Conference held last Sunday was quite a contrast to last year's conference. For once, both students and faculty had some feelings of accomplish- ment and mutual understanding. The conclusions reached at the conference may not be earthshaking, but we hope they are the start of student-faculty cooperation that will finally come to grips with some of the more major prob- lems facing Union. It is clear that students and faculty are in virtually complete agreement on two issues. The consensus was that so-called sophomore hazing during orientation has no justi- fication. We expect that it will not be permitted next year. Also, both students and facu1ty agreed that the present housing conditions on campus were less than could be rightfully erl_)ected by the students. We expect that this viewpoint will be considered in the planning of the pro- posed new dormitory and that provisions will be made to insure a dormitory constructed with the comfort of the residents in mind. Friday, November 15, 1963 Friday, Nc \\WE SHALL OVERCOME ..... \ History Of Jazz: Fr: Letters to To the Editor of Coneordiensis: First of all, let me make it clear that I have nothing but praise for the serious concern with college problems shown by the editors of Concordiensis over the past sev- eral years. It would be unfor- tunate if what follows were to be seen as a general condemnation of responsible student discussion of academic matters. Nothing is further from the truth. But there are some points in connection with your recent editorial, \Compulsory Courses I,\ which require com- ment. First of all, let me say that in my opinion the Faculty is aware that the time has come to exam- ine the curriculum critically, and particularly to re-evaluate the first two years of college work. In addition, it ought to be pointed out that changes have been made even within the present frame- work. Both in method and sub- stance, History 10 is a different couese than th.at given only three years ago, and I believe the same thing C'an be said in general of certain other required courses. Again, within the last two years three departments (Psychology, Philosophy, and Economics) have opened their introductory courses as electives to freshmen. As Chairman of the Depart- ment of Htstory, I feel that I ought also to comment particular- ly on one aspect of the editorial in question. It is simply not true that we who teach History 10 are \disinterested\ in what we are doing, or that by implication we regard the course as a bad one that we would prefer not to be teaching·. We are committed to the changes that have been intro- duced over the past several years; we would not claim that the pres- ent course is perfect, but we sub- mit that it is a vastly better course than it was only a few years ago. Again, I don't wish to encourage a flood of letters pro and con, but on what basis do you state that \the students do not enjoy the introductory English or History courses any more than their professors\ I cannot speak for \the students.'' Can you? I qo think that I C'an vourh for thP fact that your statement is not true so far as it applies to \the professors.'' I hea1tily agree that the excep- tionally well prepared student Ca~npus November 15 This week's Fall Weekend will not only feature a concert by Odetta at 8:00 P.M. in Memorial Chapel Saturday, but also a hoot- enanny to be held in Alumni Gym Friday evening. The event will start. at 8:00 P.M. and end at ap- proximately 1 :30, thus allowing fraternities sufficient time for parties afterward. Union will play Hamilton in football at 1:30 P.M. Saturday afternoon. November 16 After the game on Saturday a Faculty Women's Club Buffet is being held in Hale House. November 17 A one-~an exhibition of paint- ings by Robert Nunnelly is fea- tured iii the current Old Chapel Art Exhibit. It will open frorn 4:00 to 6:00 P.M. Sunday. November 17 Dr. Ernest Gordon, Dean of the Chapel of Princeton Univer- sity, will be featured at the Com- munity Vesper Serv-ice in Mem- orial Chapel at 7:30 Sunday even- ing. A coffee hour will follow in Hale House at 8:30 P.M. Count Basie By Tom Krehbiel In the thirties, jazz was most Fats Waller. In his youth he lis- commonly played by grm1ps of tened and learned a great dea-l twelve to fifteen men. The most from the early Harlem pianists famous men in jazz were known and is even now very much in as orchestra leaders and instru- the tradition of stride piano tra- mentalists. Benny Goodman, dition begun by these men, al- Jimmie Lunceford, Duke Elling- thoug·ht he, like Thelonious Monk ton, Count Basie, !O::al'! Hines, who has also derived much of his Teddy Hill, Fletcher Henderson, style from the Harlem \ticklei·s and a number of others all led has reduced and simplified this large bands during this time. manner of playing to its barest Small groups existed almost sole- essentials. It should be stressed ly as splinter groups from these that it is not for want of tech- bands such as Goodman's trio nique that either Basie or Monk and Basie's Kansas City Seven, play in this very unornamented at informal sess·ions by individual style. lndeed they have both musicians, and on record dates. adapted their technique to fit the Today the situation is quite re- manner in which each wishes to versed; there are as few big bands play. In fact one of Basie's big- now as there were small groups gest fans is Oscar Peterson who ,:=: in the thirties. has a really frightening amount It is now the of technique and has no patience bands which are for anyone who he feels does not limited to rec- have absolute control of his chos- ords and get- en instrument. togethers of mu- Went on Tour sicians who nor- Basie left Red Bank to tour Intervie¥ As the t terviews ~ personalitic iensis is p with 0. Ec . Students. Ques. f. sum up yo :'\ILliUt\liL\? mai plant and ~tudents t• Ques. ] number of bation ind nity syste tluence on ? the Editor should be encouraged to go on at once to advanced courses. This is being done, as you know; proba- bly it will be more common as time goes on, and we should wel- come that develoJ;>ment. mally play in on the Keith Circuit with the smaller combin- Gonzel White vaudeville show ations. There and found himself stranded in are onlv three Kansas City when the show broke (count 'em) up. After a year of playing bands surviving there with various barids, he of earlier times: joined Bennie Moten's band as ·~ Count Basie's, ~econd piano. On Moten's death Ans. I an inherer temi ty sy have cert: that have entation 1 provement provement ment. 'l'h• e1·man'~. Two a number of the musicians in that the action hopefully have th1s academic There are, of course, many \·alid alternatives to our present struc- ture of required courses. I agree that these should be re-e:xamined, and I commend those student leaders who have shown intelli- gent and responsible concern over this problem. weel\s ago we discussed the ca- band reformed under Basie's reer of Ellington, and this week leadership. In 1937, the band re- Count Basie comes under con- corded for Decca (now available sicteration. 011 Decca LP 8049 and Bruns- 1 Not only sponsibiht Follows Tradition widk LP 54012) and became in- William Basie was born sixty ternationally famous within a years ago in Red Bank, New Jer- year. Today the Basie sound is sey, He played piano from child- much the same as it was in the hood and studied informally with (Continued on Page 4) Neal W. Allen,. Chairman Department of History ~ 'f 'f 'f ¥ f f f f f f f f Y f f f f f f f ¥ f ¥ f f t t f r f f v f f f f f 'f 'f ¥ 'f 'f 'f 'f .-. To the Editor of Concordiensis: ~ D I A M A N T E ' S As chairman of the campus ~ chest I would like to call the at\ ~ tention of all Union College Stu- ~ dents to the Campus Chest pro- ~ gram. ~ Most of the students know that t the Campus Chest collects money ~ for various service organizations once a year during second sem- ester registration. It is the Campus Chest's duty to educate the students in the pro- grams and purposes of these var- ious organizations so they may hPtter know why they shoul.-1 support them. In so doing, I should like to hring the United Negro College Fund's appeal before the student body. The United Negro College Fund raises money for 32 independent accredited Negro colleges and universities, all located in the South. Since 1944, these private institutions have looked to the fund for at least 10 percent of their annual educational budgets. What is more, the Neg1·o col- lege, forced by legal restrictions by the Supreme Court, invite the enrollment of qualified students of every race and faith. The quality of instmction in the Negro college is going- up- hut not fast enough, for which they- must be well prepared in as Rhort a time as possible. :Better facilities, bette:r libraries, better faculty, and better laboratory equipment will make this possi- ble. But this requires money. Share your resources \Vith your fellow students in the UNCF col- leg-es so they, too, may help Am- el·ica realize her dream. Joe Randall '65 Briefs November 19 A Student Council Meeting is being held in the Hale House Stu- dent Lounge at 7:30 P.M. Tues- day. All interested students are invited. November 20 A Faculty Colloquium wiU take place in Bailey Hall 201 Wednes- day at 4:00 P.M. Professor Wil- Liam Murphy of the Department of English will speak. November 20 The Hispanic Society will meet in Silliman Hall at 8:15 Wednes- day evening. A Special Holiday Buffet will precede it in Hale House from 5:15 to 6:15 P.l\L November 21 Bernard Kilgore will speak at a convocation Thursday morning in Memorial Chapel. President of Dow Jones, Inc., publish€rs of the Wall Street Journal, he is also Honorary Chancellor of Un- ion University for 1963-1964. November 22 The Mountebanks' Fall Pro- duction will begin Friday- evening in Nott Memorial at 8:3() P.M. The play is \The Dybbuk;'• by S. Ansky. Tickets are available free of charge for all students at the theatre. Enjoy our Fine Home Cooked ltolian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOTT ST. OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M.- SUNDAYS 5 P.M.-3 A.M. RECORDS OF COMEDY - JAZZ - CLASSICAL - FOLK AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS TAPES AND RECORDS FOR RENTAL ON CLUB PLAN APEX MUSIC KORNER State St. at Corner of Broadway EXCLUSIVE EUROPEAN ·EILMS! Phone FR 7-1112 Now thru Wed! Complete Shows at 7 and 9 117 Mohawk Ave., Scotia DINO DE LAURENTIIS Presents Directed by ALESSANDRO BLASETTI In TECHNICOLOR® ULTRASCOPE M llalo-Fronch ca-praductlon. il.o.r.o.R .. FIIm (Rome), Orsay Films. (Paris) IIUtrlbuted by COLUMSIA PICTURES For three Generations ••• Those Who Know. Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Maurice B. Graubart & ·sons '\3 Union Graduates in Graubart FamilY'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY study con ~4'iohn'\'\'rl th: members they're fac ment. Pel tha chapter < they've h [. They sh< J counsellin: haps fro Fried', or Others m dividual 1 see tl here is p than they are 1:espo has 11 , nterestin nity systE lntel'frate 1 strh·en to \ ttiple,; or This mea: ternities l ideas, anc , , .gani za tio1 , ' ternities i to them. 1 they say , scholarshi 'B 'average. this cam] 70</o of o ternities, frate average. be done. somethin1 faire atti ment of i Ques. you belie· witJ differ• Ans. : believe tl have the uals. 'i'h tain indh .. I ~ II t \ ' ' c fl • ,, . Fr t• '' 0 •

2 Qlnurnr ! :.! l• · to 11t1; ... 11:d c::Htt ~· a r l ·~· 1 t.t• :-:• 1. t~>r t I:. •·! ~ ••! I· r; •II t '<d l I..:··. I 'llld It .\ t lt•rl I}!~ I\ t• I Tttuh :--:, ht>· ~ 1.• II•' ,~,.Jy '\:li••Jn~tl .\d\•'! .... •:..:: .\'•'t\'1 •• lr c',•ll••g•• }' rl·! ..... • \' ~ l!·•·1•1 t·~· · ' '· 4'.'£1 \J t.!:<.l .. n \ ,. ~ Y r· ~~· ';td\' l'IH1 1 H~ t'••trll·:tJlV, H•,.<t'\·'~ l:rt'•·rt·•l Hl Itt•· ~tht-'\ ' $ t 'Lt:--~ ;-:.,t ... • II'' :t•TI 1. ,. U -1•-! \ · ~ •·d -,.r ' '' 1 ,... r t- ...,: ...... ,..L0'\101( 110 \lUI Jl.\\'11• r-Lr~t-:,~··'- 1 \'1.:'-- I I:-,.,·' ·I~ I ...: 1 \It •\ -~· \ J.• I • '' '; HOlll:l~T hI~\\~ t:t~ ., - lti1'II.\HP I:l!.l'lJI:~ ·,,,, 1.\I:I.Y H•IJ:••\\·~·:·z -,· \\\ILLI.\'1 T \\·;'\>..1: :; 'I \-( • t 1 J.. :' ~ ! ' 'Ill . I· ' I : ' ' ) i I • I ... !' •. ' • I • I ~ ,· J:!>l·••J! Jj,.• 'lti:tll 't,l, )•.t \ :• I \ • . i ... • :. t1 . '·'· \\. I I; .. 1 I II ~ .·1 ~I' l ' 'I·· . I,' ; l• n ll·•l:l. t .,, t • '·' I'':·!, .•. ~ I. I I I .j .. I ',;.: l·'••t•·r \•11 :~h ~ ,;,, ·\r!hu• '1···-··t•·'• '' lt•·\11) 1~ .. ~ '.':\.•'' ·,, :\( .-t' I\' I l}, 1,,; r ,·. ,- t' [(.,),,. t' :-= H· ~:I\ ~~n · ,· ·. ...: 1 11 r \\\\ 1 .• •· · ,; · !!It hat<! I~··\'· I. . •:•. J :o '•\ l' !-,; ~,, I 'tt; /!••\,,,!' l:: lt t. t', .••• ; j . j-~ - ...... 1•:' .-·,, l '! .;. ' t• l:d t•-r lfl C'ha.•f l·:tll'llnt':o-H ~-lanag-t>r :\1.t r•a:..:tng- 1-~ditor :'\•·ws Editor Spnt ts Edttor F· ar tit(• J·:dit.or \·I v ,..,, •r :\·1 ;tl,··~ l. ]l ~ '••J•Y 4\:--.~HHant Ft·a.tur•• .\~:--.1~1 :tni :'\il·\\'S \ ~ -.. . .._ ~ t.1 \ ~ ;.._ t I I ..., E\• h:t n-•' .\~!\-'\ l.tTt• .\.-;:-,111 iitlt• .\~!--Ill 101\t• .\~\''\ i.tlt .\ ...... r .. t:tl.t• l.:olltlll' r:tlttor 1-:dttlll l~tllttll\ l;~di! oil\ 1-~dltur EdlttH l·~tl!tul\ 1-~dlt.ur L:duor l:dttor \·!-.• ~:.~1n;..: ;\lanaJ..:t't' 1 ',t.t lnonn~t 1 -•rt'J l-li' n~-; I:ditur 1. •• ,J A·h•·l~!~ n~ :\\lano.gf'r ..:,,,,.,, ·npt 10n :\l.anag,~r ,~_1,1dat'1un .\lana~~·r Required Courses: II jluch ha~ bf'Pll said and \nitten about the gap be- t\veen the \two cultures.\ scien~e and tht.• humanities. In an effort tD bridg-e this g-ap l'nion has t·equired all Liberal Arts majot·s to takt' at lr~a t t wu courses in Division Ill, one of which must bt· a laboratory science. Though the aim of these requin•ments is l'ommendable. the results are nut. \Ve ft•el that DiYi~i'm HI ~hould t'PP\'aluate its ('ourse offet·ings to Libt:ntl Arts majors. The n1st majurit~· ul Libt•ral .\rts students get vir- tually nothing from their rc>quired sl'it·nn' courses. They make nu l'i'fort to understand any of the major principles of the science they are studying-. being t\ontenl tu memorize a few facts that will get tht'nl suet·essfully through the eoursP. ThP fault for this attiludt• dues nul lie solely with the students. Pt'L'S(•ntl~·. most introductory eourses in Dh·ision Ill plal't' more t>mphasis on a factual introduction than on tlw importallL't' Df paltil'ular tlwul'it'S. The Science major is exposed to these theories as lw takes more upper- l'lass t•our·sps, but tlw Humanitit·~ or ::;ol'ial Science major must bt• ~atisfied with tl:w ft'\\' facts he ean glean in one :vem·. We• suggest that Dh·ision III try a new approach in teaching Liberal Arts studPnts. InstPad of teach- ing thPSP students isolated fnds that they soon forget. a eourse should be gin•n c·mphasizing scientific method and the relevance of partieular seit'ntific advances to society. We propose a two-year course. each semester of which would be given by a different department in Division III. In the one semester flll!iltcd it. a dt•partment could not PXJJect to give the student an~· sort of detailed kno\vledge. but it could st•t forth tht' problems a sciC'ntist faces in one particulat· diseipline anrl tlw wa~·s he gcws about trying to soJvp thr>m. An Pxperiment li kP the nne we an' proiJnsing may not be succPssful. Howen'r, considering the present situation. a one or twn y(•ar t l'ial woulct be surely worthwhi!P. An I~nproventent The Studrnt-Faculty Confercnee held last Sunday was quite a C'ontrast to last year's <:onferencc. For once, both students an<l faculty had sonw feelings of accomplish- ment and mutual u mkn;t a nding. TlH' t'Dlll'l us ion::-; reached at the wnference may nul be· l'c..trthshaking, but we hope they are the stal't of student-faculty cooperation that will finally conw to g-rips with soml' of thr more major prob- lems facing- Union. '\WE SHALL OVERCOME ..... II Letters to the Editor To the Editot• of Concordicnsis: should bL• l'll<'lllll a;.:···d to ~\ \n at Fir:-;\ of all, let !Ill' nwkl• it clear <>ll{'P to advanl'l'd t'n\ll.'o-o<':<. This i:-< that I han' n11thing- but pmi:;e for bt>ing- dll!ll', a~ ~·ou knoll'; p1 oba- the :-<eri<>U:< l'Oill'l'l'!l with colleg-t• bly it w.ill lll' lllt!l'l' t't!llllll\ll a,- !JI't>bknts sholl'n b~· the editors of tinJL' g\ol':< on, and ''\'' :<httuld 11'..1- Concordiensis over the past ,;ev- l'ollll' that <kvd .. pment. t•t a! n•ars. It would be unfm- ThPI'P :tl'l', of {'IIU!'Sl', manv Yalitl tunat;• if what fol!o\\'S Wt•re to bt• alternatin•s to our preoent' ,;trw:- \l'l'll a,; a genPral condemnation tun' \f requirPcl cour~l'>'. I agTe<' of !'P:<ponsibl(' ~tudt>nt discussion that tlws<> should bl' l'P-<·xamined, ot' aeademic• mattl•r,;. :\othing i,; and I commend thos£' studPnt fm·tlwr from tht> truth. But tlwn' lE'm!Prs who have ::;hown intrll.i- an• sollll' point:-< in connl't'tion with g-Pnt and respon~iblP l'IITlCt:rn ovPt\ ~·\ur l'l'l'l'lll Pditorial, \Compulsorr this problPm. Friday, November 15, 1963 History Of Jazz: Count Basie B} Tom l\rt.\h9id Ju tilt· lllll'l'iPs, jaz;r, wa,; lll•·tS! ''\llllll<llliy pla~·,•d hy gt·ollll- ,J!· I Wt'l Yt· In f'iftt'l'l'l lllL'll. Till' Ill II,-( f:tlll!Jtlo' ll'11'11 i11 i:tzz IH'i\L' l;uuw11 a;; t~rdH•o't nt k:;dl'rs and i I!Stru- mPnt:di,ts. Bt•tJn\' r;tl(l(!Hl:Hl, .linllni<· Lun•···f<>t<l. 'nut;,. J<l:ing- 1<>11. t ·\unt Ha~it•, l::arl !lim•,.;, 'l'l'dd1· Hill, Flt>t<·lwr i!Pndt•rs<>tl, 'tlld a llllllliwr of 11\hl'l\ all lt•<.l larg•· hand,; during· this tinw. :-;nJall g'J'!IUJI\ t•\:istt•d almost :;oil'- ]~· ::s ~)dint.t·r gToUps t'rum th• \\ i>and., 'u\h as (;llodmau',.: trio and lla,;ip':; Kan,;as ( 'ity SPYPll, :•1 i11i\nn:d \\\\io11\ ltv indh·iclual lllU:--.i(·ittn~. and Hll .l'<:<'l.Jl·d datl'~. To<la~· till' :<ituation i.~ quitP n•- n•r,;vd: t hPI'P an• as fpw big· l!a.IHb J,!l\1' as tlwn· ll'l'I'P small gT<Iltps iII l ]1!' th i rt iPS. It i,; .lltll\' tht• hands II' hit'h arP limitt•d to l'PC'- ur·tb and gpt- tog'L'I ht•r,; of mu- :<i<·ians IYlw nuJ'- Illal!~- )I lay in small l'l' t'!llll bitt· at ions. Then• ~lt.l\' 1111] Y thl'Pl 1 (t·ount L'lltl hands sun·i,<ng fttltil tIt·' ·l'.\' 11f Pal·lit·r tiuw~: ]lul,t· I-:l!:ngt\n' < '••lint Basi\'\· :IIIII \\' .. tidy II ('J'IY\:1.1'1 ·.-. 'I'll' 0 ,,.,.,.~,,; H~'\ Wt' dist·us~wd tht· 1 :t- 1 <'L'I' .,J I·:lling·ton, and this Wl'l'k t '\ui•t Ba,.it· •·o11ws undl'r l'lll1- sid .. rat ion. Follows Tradition Wil.liam Basil' wa~ hom sixty )'t':t 1':' arro in 1\(•d Bank, ~('W Jt•r:- Sl'~·. Ill· playL•d piano from ehild- hood awl stucliecl in formally with Fah 'v\\allt·t· In hi:; youth he lis- lvJJt•,·[ :tJul lt•ai'l!PI'! a •rl'eat deal f, ()JJJ til .. Par!y Hurlet~l pianist~; :11:d is l'l'l'll llliW very much in ill<· ttaditi .. n of' stride piano tra- ' it :\11 l~t•g-un by these men, al- 1hliUJ.!'ht ill', likP Tlwlonious Monk \l·iJ,, 11::,; also dPriYed 111uch of his ,tyh• fmm tlw Harlem \tickle1·s 1-:t ~ n·. IU<'t•d and ;.;imp! ified this mn•ln<'l nl' playing to its barest •·sst•Jltials. It should be stressed tlwt il is 11ot for want of tech- niquv that L•itlwr Bash: o1· Monk play in this \'l'l'Y unornamented ~t;,: It>. lndt'Pd t ht>y have both :td:~ptl·d tlwir te('hnique to fit thl' nmimt•r in whi<\h each wishes to l'la~·. In fad one of Basie's big- 1-\l'St fans is Oscar Peterson wh<.l kts a I'Pally frightening amount of lt•C'hn ique and hm; no patiencP l'ot' anyone who he fet>ls does not ha l'l' ab,;olutl' control of his chos- (•n instrument. Went on Tour llaf'it· lei't Red Bank to tour '11 tlw KPith Circuit with the !i\nzl'l \\'hite:> vaudeville show :md fllund himself stranded in Ka11<:t:; Ci.ty when the show hrol\e t:p, A ftt·r a year of playing till'!'<' with Yarious hands, he i\it!t'! !!Pnnil• :\Iotl'n',; band as ~''''\lid piano. On Moten's death ;, numht•r of tlw musi<\ians in that band 1 t'fot·mecl under· Basie's ]Padt•t·~hi[l. Jn 1937, the band re- ''\l'dt'd f'111' ll<•eea (now availablt> ..n n .. c,·a Ll' k04~l and Bruns- wi<ik LP ;, Hl1:2) and became in- kl'na tionully famous within a } ew·. Today t lw Basie ~ound is muvh the sanw as it was in tht> [Continued on Page 4) l '\ur I,\ whil'h l'Pquin· l'Olll- :\eal \V. Allt•n, Chainnan ::::;~·\:.:~1n'i~~·na~\;l'IPI\l~.~~·lt~~~s t~~\~a:.:: Deparlmt•nt of History f ... t. t y. ¥DT T '.· T A .. T .M. ·. T TAT. TNT T .. T .•. TETT ~' s' •••• T T T.v. that tlw tim,· has l'llllll' to t'Xant- 'I' h ~ o t t' Editot· of Concordil'nsis: ~ int• tlw nnrieulum eritil'allv, and partil·ularly to n•-pva!uat·P th•· A~ l'hairman of tlw •·:unpu~ ~ fir,.t l\\'n yt•ar,; of colll'g'l' Wolk. l'iwst I 1\'ttLdd likl' to {'ail till' at- In :u!dition, it oug-ht t\ b,, pointt·d l<'ntion of all Cnion Col!Pg<' :-:til· .. ut th:tt chang-p,; havt> bPl'n mad•· dl•JJt~ to tlw Campus CJw,t pn•- t'Vt·n within th1' JH't>~Pnt fr~lll1t>- ~Tanl. ,, . .,, k. Both in method and sub· :\lust of tlw students know that slant'<', 11 i4 11 rv 10 i•s a differr•nt the Campus Chest collects morll•\' <'t>UI'.~<· than tl1at gin·n 1 ,n]y thn·P for various sJ?rvice organization's y,•ar,; ag,, and I l>l'!iPV•' th.e sam•· ''n\e a year dUI·ing second ~<'lll­ thing· 1 ·an lw ~aid in gerwral n[' l',l<'l' registration. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ [njoy Ol•r fine Home Cooked ltCllian FooJ in Our Comfortoble Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOTT ST. OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M.- SUNDAYS 5 P.M.-3 A.M. ····rtaill uthl'r requirPd ('0\ll:'L':<. It is the Campus Chest's dutr . .\:,.:ain, within tlw Ja,;t twn \'l':tl'.' to L•dueate tlw ~tudt>nts in thf' prn- thn·•· dt'!Jartnwnts tl'sych<;logy. g-rams and purpose:; of tlll'~l' Yar- l'hil\s\phy, and J-: 1 ., 1110 mics) ha\·,, iou,; oJ·ganizations so thev may \P<'IWd tht'ir introdudon· l'ollr:<P>' hPttPl' know Wh\' thP\' •shovl;! ~ l~~~~~~~L~A~£A~AA·~~·AA~A~~AA~AAA~~AA~~~A~~~~~ as ,.,,,,·tin'~ to frt>shmPn: ~upport tlwm. · • · A.,; ( 'hairman 11 f tlw D\]Htrt- In so dning·, I should likP tn nwnt \f J[i,~ttll'\', 1 fl',.] that 1 l•ring tlw CnitPd :\eg-ro CollL•gp ttught also to l'DJ;mwnt particular- I'und'~ ap]H•ttl ln·fnrP tlw :-;tudent I~· on Ollt' aspPl't nf tht' t'diturial },udy. in qUl':'tion. It i~ simply not true The Cnited :\l'gro College Fund that \\'e who !Path Historv 10 aJ'P raises money for 32 independent \disintvrt>sil'd\ in what \\'P are :JeCI'Pditl'd ~eg'I'o collt>gl's an{[ doing-, or that by implication \\'!' universitil's, all loeatPd in tlw J't•gard thl' t'ourst• as a had 011 \ South. Since l!l·l !, the:<L' priYatP that \\'' \\'ould PI'Pfl'l' not to ht• institutions han• ]ookl'd to tlll' t 1 ·aehing. v,·,, an• committPd t.o fund for at ]pa,;t 10 pt•I'<'l'll\ ,f tht• chang·l'~ that haVl' bPen intro- their annual Pducational hudg-PI~. dtl<'l'd oYer tht• past sever:tl ~·pars; What is mon•, thL· \:t•grll ,•,1- IH' would not claim that tlw pn·~- lr gP, fon'l'd ltv ]pg·a[ rPstrictions Pllt {'OUJ'Se is pt•t·fert, but \''' sub- !.y tlw Supn•n;,. ( 'ourt, in,·itt· llw mit that it is a vastlv hf'ttt•r •·11rollment of qualifie:>d ><tudt•nt-< <·nursP than it was onh: a few \f l'\'•'I'Y ral'l' and faith. yc>ars ago. Again, I don't wi,;h to The qualitv of instrut'lion in encourag-P a flood of JettPI':' p!o the ~Pgl'\ ,.,;IIPgt• is g11illg· up--- and con, but 011 II' hat basis do vou l.ut not fast Pnough, for \Yh ich statP that \tlw studt•nt:-< d\ 'not tlw~· mw<t hP \\'Pi] prPpal'l'd in as Pnjoy tlw introductory Engli~h or short a tinH• as pos:-;ii!IP. RPtt<'r History t•ourses any lllOI<' than fa<\ilitil's hPtter libral\if's hl't!Pi' t lw.il· p!·ofpssot·s\ I l'annot spl•ak la<'ult~-. and hettt>r laboratory fnJ' \tlw studPnts.\ ('an ~·ou? 1 t•quipnwnt will make this possi- do think that J 1 ·an \'otwh for th•· },]<', But this requires money. fart tlwt your statenwnt is not :->hart• vour l'l'SOUI'l'l'S with :vour f ''p]Jow ,;t~JdPnts in the UNCF.col- tnw ~\ ar as it :1pplic•s to \tlw profp,_;sor:;.'' l<•!!PS so tlll'~·. too, may help Am- , I ht·artil~· ng-n•P that t Jw ''\''''P· <'lll':t n•aliw ht>r dr('am. ll<~:t!2~!!_PI~JlHI'l'd_ st ud_::1_11_ __ _________ Joe Randall '6;) Cant pus :'\o\·pm brr I :i Tlti:-; week's Fall Weekf'nd will not only fpature a conc·ert hy Odetta at 8:00 P.M. in Memorial < 'hapel Saturday, hut also a hoot- <'IWnn~· to bf' h£\ld in Alumni G:vm Friday Pvening·. The event \~·ill start. at 8:00 P.M. and end at ap- proximately 1 ::lO, thus allowing fratemities sufficiPnt time for parties a ft('rwarct. e nion will play Hamilton in football at 1 ::!0 P.M. Saturday afternoon. :'\ ovem her 16 Briefs :\ovemher 19 A :1tudent Council l\l<>etinp; is hl'i ng- held in the Hale Houo;e Stu- dr•nt Lounge at 7 :!lO P.M. Tues- da;.:. All intf'l rst<>d stur!<•nb an• invitPd. :\ovember 20 A Faculty f'olloquium will takt· place in Bailey Hall 201 Wednes- day at ·1:00 l'.M. Professor Wil- liam J.Ylurphy of the DPpartnwnt of Eng%;h ,\'ill speak. :\< ovem her 20 RECORDS OF COMEDY - JAZZ - CLASSICAL AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS FOLK TAPES AND RECORDS FOR RENTAL ON CLUB PLAN APEX MUSIC KORNER Stat~ St. at Corner of Broadway Phone FR 7-1112 Now thru Wed! Complete Shows at 7 and 9 117 Mohawk Ave., Scotia •··~.-n~•.•.•• ..... ~. ·~ · ,.• •. • ,. uw,.v v.·,.~'-:«\.'IN.f-\-o,o.•• , ~ th! ... ~.ntcharding· world :::--~ ~ ~~; ~~~o:,~~ie ~ DINO DE LAURENTIIS Presents Directed by ALESSANDRO IILASETTI In TECHNICOlOR81 ULT9ASCOPE An ltalo-French co·prod~o~ctlon, R.O T.O R. F1fm !Rome}. Drs a}' Films, (PariSI lll$lt1buted by COLUMBIA PICTuRES For three Generations ••• world overf,t l It is elear that studl'nts and facult '\' art' in virtually J Aftf'r the game on Saturday a The Hispanic SoeiPty will mC'l't in Silliman Hall at 8:1!) Werhws- day evening. A .Sperinl Holiday Buffet will Jll'l\ct•<le it in Jia]P House from 5:1:-i to ll:lii P.:\1. Those Who Know. Have been recommending r·omple>te agreement on two issues. The consPnsus was that Faculty Womrn's Club Buffpt is bPing held in Half' Housr. so-called sophomore hazing- during orientation has no justi- fication. We cxpL·ct that it will not be permitted next year. Also. both studt>nts and faculty agreed that the present housing couditions on eampw-; \Vere less than could be rightfully q ~Jected by tht> students. We expect that this viewpoint will be considered in the }Jlatming of the pro- posed new dormitory and that provisions will be made to insm·e a dormitory C'Onstrut\ted with the comfort of the residents in mind. :'\ ovem ber 17 A one-man exhibition of paint- ings by Robert ~unnell:v is fea- tured in the current OJ(! Chapel Art Exhibit. It will open from ·1:01! to li:OO P.M. Sunday. 1\'ovember 17 Dr. Erne~t Gordon, Dean of t ht> Chapel of l'rinct>t<m Cniver- sity, will be featured at the Com- munity Vesper Service in Mem- orial Chapel at 7:~0 Sunday even- ing. A coffee hour will follow in Hale House at 8:SO P.M. :\<0\·ember 21 BPmard KilgorP will spPak at a convocation Thursdav morning iiJ M<>morial Chapel. · PI'('sident of I>ow .Tone~, Ine., publishers of the Wall Street Journal, lH' is also Honorary ChanrL'llor of Cn· ion Cnh·Nsity for l!Hl2-EHi4. :'\ ovem her 22 ThP :vlount('hanl<!'l' Fall Pm- durtion will begin Frirlav evening· in :-Jolt :Memorial at S:!lO P.M. Thl' play is \Tlw Dybbuk,\ hv S. A n:<k~·. Ticket:< are m·ailah]p fi'<'P of' <\harge for all slurll'nts at the thPatre. HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER ~lauriue ll. Graubart & Sons \3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY • ~Friday, No· 0 Fr~ I ntervi<'W • ,\s thL' tl t!\''Vie\\S W jlt'l'SIIllaiiti(' IPllSis is p1 \I ith 0. Ed \;.; tude·n t:o;. QueH. H ,.,um up y(J ;.;!lidenls '! O .'\liS. J'd ll•·an of St 1 ·nl n·spon: Ill<' uu.t:-;It[P t t lw exn·pt' 1 his iiWIUl t .aWI'llltil'S <IUl'L, [walt l,~..tlmg, an• than mail plant anti .'llldt·nl,.: tt ,; • Ques. I munber of hatwn indi nit y sysll'I 1 ttuence on 1 '! •nt!lege '? Ans, l l \ 11 Ill h l' I'L' ll termty ~Y' • have L\ert<J that have .. ntation t jJ!'O\'l'llll'lll liljlt'O\'l:llll'lll. ttWllt. 'J'hl tht· action ht~pl'fully l!:tve this • m·adt.\mi<' \ <~t on]J· '!Hlll:-<ibiJJt; ~tudv l'ont · '• lw vo.nd th<J lll~lllbers dJl•y'n• fal' n:L•nt. l'e.l' 0 t.,ring tha ,[mpter t' thl'\' 0 \'t• h: TIH:\' sho ,·,uri:o;L'Ilin~ 0 !t:tp>' fr\1 h il'd, ttl\ •>tht·rs mi \\ id ual 11 if\\ \''' th h·n· is p1 ·itaJ, tht·y .11 ,. n·~pur ,i ,:::t~ Ita, 1 lllt•·n·stin) 1 ~ it\ ~ \' :<l• . i lnt~·t·Jt at•· I ·II\\'' '11 ttl ·!•.;pk~ or I ihl\ llH'al I t··rni til's b 1 :d••a:-<, and '.~:.nizatinn ~-,·rni til.a~ l•• tht'lll. t lwv sav , .. b;,]arslii 1 . ' a VPt'ag·~. this eamp 7D'' of Dl t••rnities, tth\ frall'I avt•t·agt 1 • ''\ done. ,, •nwthin~ ·,.fain~ attit \\'llt of i· (~lii'H. ~ou beliP' ll !I icts with ' '\' diff er€ An:;. ~ hvlien· tr i1a1·e the I 'uals. TIH lain indi\' It , ,.' .. fr; II I

ter 15, 1963 youth he lis- a great dea:l ~lem pianists ery much in :le piano tra- ese men, al- lonious Monk l much of his , ~m \ticklers · mplified this to its barest l be stressed rant of tech- ~sie or Monk mornamented · have both 1ue to fit the ch wishes to : Basie's big- Peterson who ming amount ; no patience eels does not l of his chos- our :ank to tour it with the deville show stranded in e show broke of playing l barids, he n's band as •; 'loten's death icians in that tder Basie's the band re- tow available and Br'uns- l became in- Friday, November 15, 1'963 3 Fraternity Problems Among Issues Discussed By Dean Pollock Intet·viewed by Paul Shet·win \>-----·-------------------~-~-------- As the third -in a series of in- mon good. For instance, they sac- backwards on it. Some of the most and I got quite perturbed with I I certainly hope that we can ar- terviews with prominent campus ri:fice the right to eat wherever sophisticated people I know are them. They were distracting and I rive at some change for these personalities this week C(}ncord- they please, so that t~ey can eat people who often demonstr~te annoying, and were certainly un- reasons. iensis is presenting an interview toget~er a~ a fraterm.ty chapter. their enthusiasm and loyalty for mannerly. This is not what you're Ques. What special measures, with 0. Edwm·d Pollock Dean of I don t thmk that this destroys things that they believe in. I getting at, but this is a good time if any, are bein,g undertaken to Students. ' . 1 inqividuality. ~ ·don't think it !e- would hope that our students 'be- to take a crack at some of these control disciplinary problems dur- H ld b . fl · qutres confornuty. There are m- lieve in Union College and are people. We've already had some ing Fall Weelrend? Ques. ow wo_n you rle Y: d'vidual chapters. though that do loyal to it much more so than letters and editorials concerning Am;. Evenb:~ally, these fall on s.um .rour duties as Dean of b~·ing about a g~·eater d~gree of they exhiMt. the musical program a couple of the shoulders of the fraternities. · conformity than is really neces- Ques. Are there any immediate weeks ago during which a large There will be an IFC meeting on Ans. I'd sum up my duties as sary, But, I don't believe that any plans for the improvement of dorm number of students exhibited their Tuesday evening at ·which I will Dean of ~tudents by say1ng that of the members of any chapter facilities? bad manners or lack of manners. · ask the lFC President to recom- t'm responsible for all of ~student are complefdy forced into con- W h I don't think that we are striv- mend that the chapters employ lite outside of the classroom with formity just by the fraternity. I Ans. Yes there are. ; S a~~ ing fo1· or can readily achieve a Bums men or special .policemen. the except1on of varsity at!:tl~t!cs. think that more often they con-.· completed the remodelingdo r ou f student body that is all of one inasmuch as I understand that This includes student actlvl1;Ies, form because they want to con- College; started the remohe mg 0 · type. I really don't think that there wiH ·be a large influx of fmtermties, student morale, con~ form. It's the nature of this age .West College, which we ope to this is d·esirable. We need all stu- Hamilton students on Saturday, duct, heaith, reJ.igious li:te, coun- group to want to gain acceptance finish ·by next summer; and da\e dents who are capable of doing ·there may be some difficulties. ll. d ct·oi·mt.tOl'Y 'll'fe other d o· ean 0. Edward Pollock · aiming to do a complete remo · e - an acceptable level of \'ork at The peop·le at Ha·mt'lton have sa1-d se mg, an · · · . by its peers, an · as a consequence ing J'ob in North Go liege. In ad- U . C 11 \ th t th . 11 t b - h . than maintenance of phys1cal the younger men want to be like · dition, there is the possibility of · mon o· · ege as set down by the a ey Wt ry- to rmg t e1r plant and actual assignment of the older men so that they can h faculty. Beyond that we want students hack immediately after students to dormitory 1 'ooms. feel .more secu1·e. Tl1at's w·hei'e Q I th t d· t t 1 'vt't 1 'es additional dormitory space on t .e leaders·, we want followers. We the game and tell the Hamilton ues. s e s u en ac · campus with more student ori- Ques. Do you feel that the the conformity really lies, not in program receiving sufficient pub- ented facilities in the buildings. If want athletes; we want book- students that they're not to re- number of houses on Social Pro- the nature of the fraternity itself. ·licity? we build new builings I am very worms. We want people who are ~ain at Union without specific in- bation indicates that the frater- To digress for a moment,. frater- h d'fi'' lt bl interested in all aspects of living, vttation from ;; Union student. h b 'b d . bl d f '11 Ans. I find t is very . I Icu hopeful that we will be a e to because they help .provt'de the fer- Furthermore, if any H.amJ-l·ton nity system as een a : a m- nities are often . ame or I s to know because I'm not a stu- build in some features that would ment .J'·n '\h!'ch educatJ'on can studen·ts at·e I'nvolved. l·n a·ny fl·.a- lluence on the academic life of the that occur on a college campus. d I • · h bl' d · bl \ college? Ills would exist iust as much with- ent. t s gtven as muc pu lC- make them much more estra e thrive best. If they were all alike cas here, they'll have to answer h f .-, th ld ity as the student leaders of the from the student's point of view. tht's \Vould be an awfully, a\•·fully to the J'udict'al comm-ttee 1 at Ham- Ans. I d on't think that this is out t e ratermt1es as ey wou · t' f 1 't d · bl r I 't 1 't t ' S . · f . orgamza Ions ee I esira e 0 . can rna 'e any commi men 8 as dull place. They would do noth- ilton. Our students are similarly an inherent weakness of the fra- with them. · ometJmes, m act, practical to give. I'm sure that to what we will actually do, at · t h 11 'bl h h ternity system. 1 thirrk that we fraternities can exercise a posi- there are many activities on cam- this point_ Only the Eoard of. mg o c a enge one anothe1·, and responsr e ere at t e college. have certain individual chapters tive influence to bring about the pus that are not coming to the Trustees can do this. We are they certainly wouldn't be much Beyond that we are taking no that have not had the proper ori- removal or the lessening of some attention of all the students. Com- thinking of such things as build- ~;..a challenge to the faculty eith- other special measures_ entation toward scholarship im- social issues. They certainly munication is a general pro.blem, ing in suites where living and provemen.t or, rather than im- don't desel've all the criticism not restricted to student activities. study space would be separated Ques. What is your opinion of Wanted: rovement, scholarship achieve- that is so frequ~mty levied against We publish things ip. the Concord- from sleeping space. Perhaps the various proposals to change Generous contribution for: mertt. They have been jolted by them. I talk with the Dean of iensis, put up posters, send out provide more flexibility in the uti!- the school calendar? I 1. World University Service the action that I have taken - Students at Siena frequently, and notice::;, have talks on various mat- ization of the building. There are Ans. About the only thing that 2. United Negro College Fund hopefully to realize that they do he has many of the same prob- ters, and we still have students some students that can't get along I can say concerning this is that 3. Save the Children founda- have thts responsibility for the .[ems on his campus as we have that don't know a thing about with anyone else in the room. We I am in favor of a calendar change tion academic life of their members. here. He has no fraternities what- what's going on. These are the would want to have single rooms. of some sort that would bring 4. National Scholarship Fund Not only do they have the re- soever. individuals that if you were de- There are some that would prefer about curriculum change. Currie- for Negro Students sponsibihty to provide proper Ques. Are y~n in favor of the termined to find out if they were to live rather closely with one or ulum change not so much for it- .'i. Emergency Loan Fund IS within a asie sound is t was in the age 4) study conditions, but also to go delayed rush and the one week fully appraised, you'd have to go two other people so we want some self as for allowing for experi- Share your good fortune with •~•\ 0 '\' that and aid the individual rushing period 1 out and find each one, explain double or triple rooms. When we mentation in teaching and to try thosE> who need your help_ members in whatever problems Ans. I have felt, since I fi'l'st everything to them, and call them get to triples, I feel very strongly and find new, more challenging Give generously to your Cam- they're facing in academic achieve- came to Union., that the decision back three days later to make that we need to separate the more interesting ways for stu~ pus Chest at registration next TT'Tf'TTtY+ 1 Our ~.-3 A.M. -FOLK IER FR7-1112 red! tOWS 9 Scotia .J ' ment. Perhaps they need the tu- about whether we should have sure they haven't forgotten. We sleeping space from the living and dents to learn, and perhaps to semester. toring that older members in the immediate or defel'l'ed rushing just don't have the time or per- study space. bl'oaden their learning experience., Chairman, Joe Randall chapter can give them where was essentially one that the stu- sonnel to do this. Ques. In what way would you they've had the same courses. dents themselves should make. I Ques. Are you satisfied with like to see the calibre of the stu- They should seek professional recognize that there are others the school spirit exhibited by the dent body impt·oved? counselling if they need it, per- within the college that do not feel student body? Ans. I think we have quite a from their advisor, Dr. h' F If h I Ans. Definitely not. Judgin~r !rood student body at the present or others on the .campus. t IS way. or myse , owever, _ ~ Others might try to talk to in- have refrained fl·om taking a po- by what I think a student should ·time. I find it difficult to imagine tlividual members and get them sition on this in the past and am get out of college, I think that it improved significantly over see that their academic life not willing to take one now. I many of our students are missing what it is now except in super- here is perhaps more important think there are pros and cons to an awful lot. I think they have a ficial ways. I would certainly love 1 than they realize. These I think both forms of rushing and in the feeling that they have to be too to see a student body that was l f end they tend to balance each sophisticated and. that if they 1 more predominantly ·well-man- are responsibi ities that a rater- other out. 1 have in the past, and demonstrate a feeling of loyalty I nered than the one we have now. '1 ty has concerning scholarship. 'll t' t tl' t th t or enthusiasm for Union College I '\as dt'sgusted at the numbet· of nterestingly enough, the frater· WI con mue o ou me o e s u- \ nity system through the National dents the feeling of other people they lack sophistication. I think 1 1 students who were so discol:lrte- 1 lnterfmternity Conference has on this, but I will not express a they are being extremely naive to ous as to be talking in groups I :;trh·en to establish a set of princ- personal opinion about one or the believe that lack of demonstrated during the talk of Rabbi Newman 1 other enthusiasm reflects a lack of so- 1 in chapel on Tuesday afternoon. , pie['; or ideals for fraternities. · phistication. I think they't·e J'ust 1 They _iust ignored him completely, ' This means that all national fra- Ques. What impl'Ovements would ternities have subscribed to these you like to see in the studl\nt ac- \' ideas, and the1·efore that the or- tiviti£'s program of the coll~gt'? tions to which all ·our fra- Ans. I'd like to see greater and temities belong have suhscribed more active student participation, to them. Among othe1· things because the activities are for the that they stand for students. As the President stated achievement ahove the this past Sunday at the Student- Above the average on Faculty Conference, this college this campus is impossible. With believes that there is a great deal 70</o of our men belonging to fra- more to education than classroom ternities, it's impossible for all learning. This is the major rea- tthe fraternities to be above the son why we have such activities. average. Mathematically it can't I feel that many students who are be done. But they've got to have not participating in anything out- something more than a laissez- side of the classroom are losing faire attitude toward the achieve- some of the educational advan- Midtown Barber Shop 515 UNION STREET !Next to Union Inn) Specializing in Restyling of Hairdos Each head is given personal care ment of individual members. tages of Union College. The stu- \' Ques. By its very nature, do dent activities program will ex- ~:;;:;:~2;2;:;:~;;:~~~~;::;2;~~;::;~~~;::;~:;~~~~ believe that a fraternity con• pand only in the directions that ' with the individual's t·ight to students wish it to expand. We'll different? not institute activities for them. Ans. No, I don't think so. I They'll express the inte1·est in it, believe that those in a fraternity organize it themselves, or else have the freedom to be individ-~ they don't have it. We are quite uals. They have to sacrifice cer- permissive ab<Jut what they can tain individual rights for the com- . do. Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWtiNG LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES CHARLES Opticians 604 UNION ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Phone FR 7 .a1283 Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian • American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1 115 Barrett St. ~ICHAEL ROTH'S Presents: THE GROUP - Fascinating & unique - JEWELER'S NAME proudly presents BULOVA the gift-quality watch LA PETITE-23 jewels, 2 diamonds, timed to six precision adjustments, unbreakable mainspring. -$59.50 BULOVA \23\-23 jewels, timed to six precision adjustments, self· winding, certified waterproof,* un- breakable mainspring, shock resistant, anti-magnetic, sweep second hand. $59.5D WALTER II • FRI. & SAT-9:00P.M.- 3:00A.M. Come in and see our complete selection of fine timepieces. Bu/ova watches from $24.75 to $2500 Sons /•/ II • Prescriptions Filled imily'' frames and Lenses Repaired Promptly i· INELRY HOURS: 9:00 - 5:30 I) • SUNDAY- 7:0.0 P.M. - 1:00 A.M. 1617 UNION ST. PH. FR 4-3455 Time Center Jewelers 428 State Street FR 4-0183 AUTHORIZED BULOVA JEWELER •woterpraal as lang as case, crystal and crown are lnrocr. Certlile~ water- proof bv The United States Testlog Co., Inc. All prices plus to<.

er 15, 1963 )'Outh he lis- gl'eat deal !em pianist:; ·ry much in e piano tra- se men, al- onious Monk HlUCh of his ~~ \ticklers tlpl ified this n its barest be stressed ant of tee h- sie ot· Monk nornamented have both ue to fit tht> ·h wishes to Basie's big- 'eterson whc1 Ting amount no patiencP •els does not of his cho~- mr mk to tom· t with thP eville show stranded in ~show broke of playing bands, he 1'~ band as oten's death dans in that uer Basie's the band re- )W available> and Bruns- beeame in- within a sie ~ound is was in thE' .ge 4) ttfttfY+ Our \.-3 A.M. -FOLK IER FR7-1112 ed! ows J Scotia .. •· tole· ! t.t Friday, November 1 5, 1963 3 o Fraternity Problems Among Issues Discussed Dea11 Pollock ------------------------------------------- • .\~ the thin! in a ~el'ie~ of in- mon good. For in,;tuneP, tlwy ,;w·- baek wanls on it. Some of the mo~t and I got quitc· ]H't t urb•·cl ,,·ith 1 ,.rvie\\~ with prominent t•umpus. ritke the right to eat when•ver suphi~til'ated pt•uple I know :tl'P tht·trL Tht·y W<·n· di.<tral'tinp; and p•·r:·H•nalitiPs this Wl'l'lt Ctmcord- thL·y please, ,;o that tl;wy mn t•at [H·oph· who often demonstrall· ann••ring, and \·•·n· •·•·rtainly un- . · · l · tmt\tltl•l' as a fratt·rnit\.' t•hap·tl·r. tlwir· t•nthu,;ia:-<nr and lo\.·alt\.· for rnann~·r\Y. Thi;-; i:- ll<>t wlt;tt \'<>u'n· tPI\Sis 1:-\ ]ll't'Sl'lltlll).?; Hll Ill l'!Vll'\\\ .. ' . . \1 ith 0. Edward l'olbll'k, Dt>all of' r don't think that this destmyH things that they belit•Vl· in. I g..tting :·tt. hut thi~ i:; :t gu<>d tinw \;-;tude'llb. inr!iYidualit,y. ~ don;~ think it !'e- would hop•• that our Htudenb hw- to t:tkv a n a<\k al '\lll<· of Utt·Sl' (\ul's. How '.\ould you bril'fly; qutre~ eonlornnt;,. !here :tre lll!le- 1 lien in l·nion Collegl' and are. pe<lf·Jl•·. \\\t·'w· aln·ady h;td ,;om<' (; . . .... [J • f divielual chapter~. though, that ·loyal t<> it mud1 Illlli'P ~~~ than 1!'\tt·r:-- ai~<i •·dit,Ji:·d, r\lll't·niing· ,.um UJI _.;om duties ,ts ean ° bring about a greatPr tlegl'l'l' \f , they .. xhibit. , tht· Illl!sie;d [H·•:gr:tJJI :• c\uplt· •d' 0 :-.tudents ·, . . . . . . , ennfonnity than i~ !\<'ally Ill'<'<'~- Ques .• \rt> tlwn.• an:Jo immt-diate, 1\ ,.,.Jh ag•.' dtri tng wh1:h. a laq~<· .-\ns. _l <,l 8Ulll up ~ll). ~!ut!~\ : 1 \ 1 :;ary. But, l don't bl'ltt•Yl' that any plans for the improvt•ment nf dunnllllllltb< 1 \' stu<knh <·Xhthtll•d then· I >t·an o! ::>t1Cldt•nt~ b:> \aJ rng t!Mt of the membt•r;; of anv chaptt·r f· Tt' .'> 1 bad Illannt•r,.. \~'lack <>f manner:.:. 1 n1 rt·SIJtill\lble lol all ot ~tu<lent 1 an• eomph•telv foreecl ·into con- · act 1 reH.. h \' h . I don't tltink that \\ ,. :u .. ,.tri\'- 1 t . tl ·l· . . . m with I . . . . . ,\n:.: l. es t •·r·c- an·. n l' a\ I' . I I I . Ill<' oul:-<1< l' 0 ll' ~ ,t:->:s!oo formrtv JU;;t by tlw fntternttv. I • ·' 1 I I\ I' • th mg· or 111 c:,n tt·aclt \ a(' lll'\\1' a •lht• l'Xl'Pptton ut \ arsity athlt•tll'S.I think th·tt nwn• oftl•ll till•\' ;·on-' '\!'mplett•<! t lP rlt·!l~OI\ rng j' 1':-iou f' :-:tudt•llt h .. d\ tlwt 1,.· :til .,f <>Ill' lhi~ lllt'lUtks ,-tudent adhitit•s, fonn bP~aust• tlwv want t;> con- C•;l!Pg-t•.; ,.l·ltart<'< thy~···nwe ]' rng ~ ; typc·. I t<·:;ll\ c\ .. n't think that 1 wtetntttt•s, ;;tLulenl nwrall', con-I form It',; th<· natUl<' of thi,; age '?v•:~t <\ eg-e, w l<' \\< 11 '1 1 H' .\·this is <lt·~irai.i, .. w,. n•·t·cl all ,tu- b l h I . · l\t I · · fimsh bv nt•xt ~ummer · 'Ill< aJ\ 1 I dllt'L, t>;tt, retgwus t e, l'OUII- gt·oup to want t» gain al't'l•ptanre . ·. · · · 1 '' II 1 Ctnb 11h\ ar•· <'atJ:,ble .,f c\llilt\ I ll . ,, 1 . t .,. lit. th l' . .tlllllllg' to do a compete ll'lllo< t' - t 1 I - 1 . \' ·~·· mg . .tnu < \ltnl 01 - ~ 0 . e by rts pet•r::; and a~ a eunsequeiH'l' Dean 0. Edward Pollock . . ..,, 1 . ll 1 . 1 1 an a<'<'< pta> t· ,.,< ... t \\rk at than nratntl'n:tn<:e of ph~·srcal1 tlw voungt•t: nwn want t<) be lik1·. tr:g Job hill -~~~rt 1 h 1 11 eg\·b. 1 .U .te 1 -. L'ni»n < 'ollt·g,. a, s1·t down bv tht· , t . l . ·t . 1 . · ,- 11111 ent f • clrtron t t'l'P t>' t <· pos~l l rtv o 1·· . 1 . I' . l I · plan .m< .1~ ua ,LS:-.lg 0 thl' tJlder men 8o th·tt thc·v ,·an .. · . • h .te u t\. •I·\ on< t mt Wt· want j t t l 1 • 111 · 1 tot'\' 1 • 00 m, . . 11 : , • h . . . a<leht1onal dornntorv spaee on t P 1 1 · · 1 . II u· ~ILll t•n\ 0 < 0 • • • ted more sentn•. J:Jt s \\' l'l'e (\ 11 .. ~ I~ til\ ~ttld .. n' •t•·hntreH · h • 1 t · 1 '<IC l'l ~; 1\l' \1 ant \ o\\\1\1':<, n e . · . , · . · • · , ' ,~. ·• . '. ·' ' ~ :' · campus 1\'tt mol'<' stw en enr- .. . , . . . . . 't Ques. Do ;1-011 tee! th,tl the tlw contot'mtty real!~ IH·s, not m Jll'O\ram l'l'Cl'IYm\· suiTrcJent ]lllb- 11 .... 11 . ., .. th• b 'II' , .. If\ 1\.tllt ,tthl< t1,, Ill \\ant boCik- \ · h ..., 1 I' . h . . . 11 . ,., ,.. •·nt•·• .t<t 1 H s m < Ul < mgs. \\' 1 l number ot ouses on ,,ocm ro- tht> natun• oft \!Ja!l•!Jtltv rts<· . Jicitv\' h 'ld b . 1 . 1 . 1 .,. 1\olm,, ,. \\atn pt·op ,. 1\\1\ an· - . h 1 t• • . . • • • · \\\ ur nPw ur rng~ am \ l' . · . . 1 . II . 1 .. hatton md1cates tat tw rat~I- T.o.dtg-n•,;,: l<>r a utontenl. fmt~·r- .-\n,. I lind this \\PlY difficult ho eful that wc· will b!' abJ,. tolrnt•:rt•,tec til a a'(lt•t·t:' ol l\111)!, nrty system has bPl'l~ a .. bad. m- mttes are oltPn blaml'd t\r !lis: to know bt·t·ause I'm not a stu- • hultci in soll!l' fputur·t·s that would 1 bt·t·.tu~''. tlw~ l~t·lp Jll\\·rtlt· tht· f<·r- 1 fluence.on the aeadt•mle hfl• ot the that ot:t'lll' c:n <.t <\oil<'!'.''' t·amr?u>'. dt•tJt. It'~ g·il\l'll a:> much publie- makco tht>lll much mon• desirabl<.>llllt u: 111 \lll!<'h ,.tJuC'att\n ean •t•,·ollege! I lib would PXlst_J~I~t as murh wlth-' itY a~ tlw ,.tudent leaders of the, from the studt·nt's point of view.' th! 11 '' b\\t. If tlw~· I_\ I'll' all ;~IIkt· Au;;. I d<llt't think th~lt thi~ i~ ot!t thl· fratt·r·l;rtres.ast.hP? m.~u~dioJ:gauization;; [',.eJ it dt·sirable or I can't makl•any rommitml'nl~a,;ltr\)\t'!e.l b~·.a~l.<n:lull~.awfully ;~n mhert·nt 1\'eakne;:,S of the fra- wrth tl;•:m. :-;onwllmt:\• lll Lu t,! pradi<'al to gJVI'. I'm sun• that I to what wt• will actuallv do at!~ u_ !J .t< 1 · 1 In~ \\ould de, 11 \th- lermty ~y,;tem. 1 think that we f~·ate~·mtre~ <'an l'X~'l'e'l>'P a posl- 1 thl'l\ all' nH\11~ aetivitie, un I' am- this point. Onl v the J3oani' of ln~ . 1 ' '. \lr:tllt·n_gt· one :t!lothE'I', and .81lr,tve eertain individual dwpte1s t.ve mfluPnrl' to hnnl;\\ aho~t the I pus that are not coming to the 1 Tru,;te·e~ ran d;J this. Wt• are! tt:<~ '•·l~«Jlll~ \\oul•ln.t he· lll~tl'h that ~mYe nu_~ ~ad .:he _P: 1 y_et ';'l'l- 1 _er:;.oval. ~~- ~~l' les~em.ng- . 0 ,f, ~?me atte1!tio~1 ol' _all the students. Cotn- 1 1 ~hink.ing- o!' smh thing-,;_ ~~s build-!~~~-\ ciJal t'tJg•· to tilt· l:wult~ t•Jth- vntattun to\\,l!d ;ochul,n::;hlp tm- ,ou;tl 18 \lltH. 1he;:. <.l~ t.ar.nly ln.unH·atlon rs a ).!;ene1al problem, rn;.; lll ::;u!tes wht>re llnng and' JHO\l'llll'lit nr, rather than im- don t. dt•::;t:r\'l· all tlu: Clltlc.rsm n<>t restrictt•d to ~tudent activitie,;. ::;Luclv space \\ould be separated que' .. \\ hal i\ )our opinion of DJ>IOI'l'llll'lil, :<l'holar~hip . aehieve- that !>' sn I n•que1;ty lev ted agmns~! \Vl• publi,-h thing,; in th~· Concord-, fron; slet>ping spaee. Perhaps the ,·arwus pro!HJ:-;<tis to ehangt• 1(\l'llt. '_!'hey have bc:en Jolted by t,hem: I .tall~. ~l'~th .. ~he. De~.m. o! i iPn~is, put up po:-:tl•rs, ~end out provitle mon~ flexibility in the uti!- tlw ,;dwol calt'ndar'! th•· uetwn that 1 ltave taken - :->tudLnb .tt St~~,t lll.C(\UllltlJ., ,md lnottc<•:-<, ha\'l• talk,; on vanous mat- ization of the building, There ar<.• .-\n,; .. \b .. ut tlw onlv tlung that hopefully to realiz~ .t~a.t ~h~y do h:· ~as m~t~y .. 01 the .~~m~ pr:o~: !Pr,;, and, WP still hav•: :-;tudPnb: some students that can't get along, I •·an_ sH~· c·.,nc·t·.rning 'this i,.. that have thrs responsrbtltt~ fm the len~:-> on hrs <,llt~pus a~ .\\e haH I that don t know a thtng <tbout: with anyone el~e in the room. We I am rn t:wor \'a eal1·ndar dmng\ •aeudemic lifl• of thetr member::;. hl·l'e. H,, has no lratprnrtJ<':; what- what'::; going otr. Tht·se ar·e the would want t\ have single rooms.' of \•>ll1f• ~~~n that w .. uld bring \ot :m_l~· tlo tlwy have the re- soevn. . . . 1 individuals that if you wt•re de-. Then• are some that would preft>r about <'UI'l'inrlum L'hang•·. (·unit·- ,pon,;rbthty_ . to pr·onde proper Que;;. An• you m [a\·or ot the I t(c'rmirll'd to find out if they were: to live rathPI' closely with one 01 ulun1 l'lrang<' not so much f<>r it- ,.;rud:.-· eondrttons, _but also_ t~> go delayed rush and t.he Olll' week: fully apprai:-:Pt!, you'd ha\'l• to go! two otlwr people so we want so!llt' :-'l'lf a~ f.,t· all<> wing- f,ll. ••xper i- , '•t .. ·yuntl that and atd the lll<hvtdual rushing period? out ancl find each <>lle, L·xplain; doublt• or triple rooms. When we nwr:t:rtion in tl·a<'hing and to trv 1uember.s in whatever problems , I 1 1 . It · I r· t l e\\t'I\Ythin.r to them and call them gt>t to triples I ft•el ven stnmo·iv and find nt·W nror\ · chaill•ngin•; , · · · 1 · h\ :-\..llS. un·p P ~llll\e 11'8 1 .. ~\\~ ' , .. ~ 1:\1 .. • 9. • ....,., :IJt•V n•lacmg-tn aca< em1c ac Ieve- • t L. · tl 1 ' th l · · i b·u·k threl' dav~ later to makP' that we need to sepa1·ate the lllt•lf• lltterc•\tltl\ wa\·s Jor stu- • l' h h . d 1 t. ('anw o mnn, 1:1 e < ectswnl c • ·, • , 1 ~ • · tt:t•.nt._ ~r aps .t. eJ. .nee ... t~e u: about whellwr we l'hould have I ~Ul'l' th\? havPn t forp;otten. We; slE'eping space fr·om the living- and e en.t;-; t•• ll'_;tl'n, ar!d Jlf'rhap:; to 0 t<>llllg th,tt t>ldu lliU11hl.'l\ 1ll th< . , 1 .. t> . 1 , 1 .,,. l . h' l\ JU>'t cion t hav\ tlw tmw o1· pt•r-, ~tuclv ,;par<'. bro.td•·n th•·rr !Panung: <'X]Jt>l'll'tll'<'. I . t • . .. n trive tht•m where mtmu !,1 e or < l lll el l us JI\ , . I I h'. • ' 1 ' 1 p ll l d \' was ,.,.,,., •ntiallr one th·tt tht• stu-' ;;olltl!' to e\ t 1 \· Ques. In what way would you :lwy'y,. had tlw :-:ame courses. · · c · \ C' . \ • fi d · h 1 · · . 11 . · l ld 1 r .. · l dents thPmsPives slwulcl make. I \u.l's. ' re you satls e w11 hke to see tht> calibre of the st.u- H'Y 11 \. Jtlll ·r ~.,., pl•l ~·~><!nita n· 1 ·ounize that there are others the' school spir·it. exhibited hy the dt'nt bodY improYt'd'.' •• ·,un>'t' fill)(\ 1 t~ ;·Y llli~\. : 1 .' P~~-.- within the collt·g·t· that d() not feel studt•nt body? An,;. i think ll'e have quite a 1 1 '.\!>\ 1 r\m 1 ell' at<l ~• ' · thi~ \\·ay For mvsdf, huwevl'r, I An:-:. lldinitt·lv ntJt. .Judging- g·ood student bodv at thf:' pl'es('nt ·'It'< \r ot lt'I'S on ll' l'alll[JUS. · ·. · · 1 · · 1 · b I t I tl · k • t I t l ld · I fi ! · d.ff· · l · · I ' · 1 t II t · han· n•lrame< hunt ta•tng- a pu- 1 Y w 1a 1m a \Ut l'll :-: HIU trnH·. m 1t 1 JC'LI t to mragllll' ' 11 :•· 1 1 \ lnllg ltbtry 0 Ita 't ltJhtn- sition on this in thP pa,;t an•! am gd out of ,•,.Jiegp, I think that • it imprm·erl significant!\· over •L\ l( ua III<'Ill t•ts :llH u·t' em . . I . f' . 1 • · ' 1 · · · · ll th · (' · l'f nut wtllmg- to take one now. man~ \ our \tue •·nts arl' !lllS~lllg- w tal rt ts now PXrept m ~uper- •;\ ~t·t· \ 1 \ \ 11 . ae;u_t'lllll' t 1 ~ think there atl' pro:; and cons to <tn awful lot. I think tht•V havt• a ticial wav\. I would certainlv lovl' ·'···r,· 1 ~ per Jars m~[\~ nnyo~·h::r~ both fonns ,,f· ru,;hing and in the f1•Pling that they ha\·t· t;, bt• too to H<'l' :~ :-;tudE'nt beHi\' that wa:-: ·•raJ, t 1<·y r·.t~~l~z.t·. 1 \;'' f tlll l'lHl thev tt•ntl t\ balanl't_• each sophislil·att•d and that if thl'\' mon· pn·dominantlv • well-man- ,,,. 1 .'i\!J\ll~l 1 t\ll'.\ t 1 a ha I rah~r- oth .. r out. I have in the past, and dt•m\nstr;t\.e a fPeling- of lovait\· rwred than tht• onP ~ve have now. ,i t' 1 ::t: w: t' 1 utH'e•nHng' 1 sttl· 0 a 1 .rst lp. will c:nntinut' to outline to the stu- \~' Pnthu,;iasm for l'nion Co.lleg-~· I was disg-usted at the• numbPr of ' l<t•·n·;-;tlng- v l'llllU)(\ 1. 1t' ra Pr- . . h l tl . l k I. ·t· t' I th' k I h l' I · . . · th .. h th \'· 1 . . 1 denb tilt' lt·elrng of ot er peop e 1<',\ at' '\'P ll\ ll':t wn. Ill - stue Pills 1\' o WPl'P >'o e r~court<·- t.tt\ ,\stc·m !Dug e .~a l<lll,t h\ b I '11 tl .. I . t I . t b lk' . . 1111 ;. 1 . 1 ;ate·rnit\' l'onfert•ll('l' has on t !:<, u~ . w1 not express 11 a hr•) 1 ar•· 1 •<·m 1 g- ,·x 1 r 1 ~·n 1 H· y nurve ,, 1 •;us. as 1 to P ta. mg !n .g-roups 1 . 1 ·hi\ h f · ptr:;nnal \[IIIl!on about one or· t e 1· tl'\ P t rat ae' o < \'ll!OilHtrale! Llll'!llg t 11' talk of Rabin :\<·wnuin j,: 11 1 ·rn·n '' .'· 1 stal 1 \ 1 . a \ 1 ~·t to P!\ 1 1 .ne- othPl' •·nthu:;ia,;m rt•flect,.; a lal'k of so- in ehapel on Tue,-dav aftemoon. ' :p ''·\ or ll P:t \ or ra l'l'lll ll'\· · ~>hi ·t· t. r I tl1. k tl ' · t Th · t · i h' ' I I ! ·11 I t ll t' j j' (\ll\S \\'11'\l !'IIljll'O\\l'llll'l11S WOtlld ,_. \ ll'a 1 \ 1 · Ill. 1<'\\ l\l' JUS PV IUS lgllllrl'! llll romp l'tl' \', , tt,;mpanst.ta a ttalotw ra-~ t'-- ' · --· • -----~·--·-- • I ~··rnitil'S haVl' :5L.Jbseribe<l to these Y.<ll.l .like to Sl'e in .thl' student ,;lc- r:<·------ ---- -- -·-- -.-:--v---:.--..------.-<-..--;..:-·.:.:.-_- i~ 1 :.\,•a,;, and th<'lt>fore that the or- tnrtws JH'og-ram of thl' C()lleg-P. \ : .~:tni_zt_lti\ll\ lll whi<·h all nur fra- ( An\- l'cllike to ~l'l' grt•atl'l' and Ml.dtown Barber Shop :···rll! tie,; bt• long havl' :-.ub:;~ llbl•cl lll<n·t· al't i Vl' ::;t ud 1 •nt part ici pat ion, l•• tlwm. .\mung Dthn thm.g-,; bewu:-;L• th 1 • al'til·itil's are for tht• tlwy :-;a~: that. tht•y ;;tand fur :-;tudents. As the P1 · 1 ·sident staled 515 UNION STREET I •·c·rtainly ht~pP th;tt we can ur- ri' ,.. at :'IIlli<' t•hang·~· for thl'st· n·a:'nll:--. qul·s. What special ll!l'asurt•s, if an_1, are heinp; undprfakPn to cuntrol disei]Jlinary problems dur- inp; Fall Wl•Pkt•nd :.' .-'\.!<>. 1-:vt·ntuallv, the\' fall on th .. ~h\uldc·r~ ,f th•· fratl'rnitit•s. Thl·r <' ll'ill b .. an I FL' meeting on TUt·sduy t·VL·ning at whi<'h I will as'k th<· I Fl' I'n•sident tu rt•com- tnt·nd that thl' dwptc·r..; empl\y iiUllb m• ·n \~' ;-;pecial pulicemen. lna.'lliUI'h as I und .. rstand that thel'L· \\ill bt· a larg-e inf!mx ,,f !Lunilt\n ~twh·nt~ on Satunlay, then· lllay bL· S<lln•· ditfi<:ultie:.:. Till' p<.•IJpit· at Hamilton have said that tht•y will try tu br·ing their ~tudt•nl:: bu~k imnH~tliatdv after tht• gamP ancl tPI! th<· H;uniltun ~tw[,.nb that thP;(re not tD re- l!luin at L'nion without speeifie in- \·itati<>ll from '.;. L\nion :-:tudt•nt. Furthelllllll\l' if ali\\ II am ilt \II studeub a.re invol\'l•Jt' in anv fra- t'<IH hL'I'<', tlwy'll hav<· to :;n,;wpr t\ th<· juJi,·ia\ t·ommittet• at llam- iltolt. Uur ,.tud•·nb an· :.:itnilaril· l't·Spl>ll:'iblt· hL·J t' at tht• L'oile\~ B··y\nd tl~at \\ c· lH•· taking ~~,; oth<·r S!Jl'<'lH\ llll'a:'UJ'l';', \\'antt·d: I;<'Ilt·'re•u.' •·ontr·ii>ution t't~r: L \\'o!ld l'nin•rsity Sen·il't' ., l'nitl'c\ :\<•gT<J l'ollt•ge Fund \· :-'a,.,. th\ f'hildi·<·n f,uncia- tion I. :\'ational S,·h,.arship Fund fo1 ::\ l'J.:T\ Studl'nt,; \· Emt'lXl'll<\Y Loan Fund ~han• your g-our[ forttllll' ll\ith t II\~•· who lll'l'd your help. (;i,·e g't·m·rou~ly l\ Y<>Ur Cam- jllh Chl·,t at n·~istration lll·Xt :-:t•/JI(L.q f'l' • l'hainnan. Jot• J{andall ,, 1 .·dwlar8htp a~hreveml'nt above the this past Sunday at tlw Student- <t\·prage, Abt~ve_ the ~verage _on Fal'ulty Conference, thi;; college ~Ills m_mpus rs tmpo:;st_ble. Wrth belieYes that there iH a g-reat deal , 0'' of our men belongmg to fra- morl' to edueation than classroom t•·rni~ies, i~'~ impossible for all learning. Thi~ i~ the major rea- ttlw ±rall•rnJtres to .be above the son whv Wl' have :;ueh activities. av .. ragt•, :lolath,•matreally it can't I fpl'} that manv studPnts who nre '\' don~. But they\·t· g-ot to_ han' not participatin-g· in anything out- ~\lliPthrn_g- more than a h:n~sez- 1 side of the t•ht,-sroom are losing (Next to Union Inn I Specializing in Restyling of Hairdos JEWELER'S NAME ·,.1a11e at~t.ttH~e .toward the achteve- 1 sonw of the Pducational advan- Each head is given personal care \\·nt of mdrvulual members. tag·e~ uf Cnion Colleg-e. The stu- '\ Qlll'S. By its very nature, do: dl'nt al'tivitiL·~ prog-ram will t•x- ~~:;~::;::;:~~2:2:;~::;:;:;:~~~2:;;:;:;:;:;::;::;:2~;::;:;:;:;~\~ ~ou belil•ve that a fraternity con- pam\ only in tlw clin·t·tions that · .,flicts with the> individual's right to· ,-tudPnts wish it to (•xpand. We'll ' ht> different? not institutt• artivitie>s fot· them. .-\ns. :\o, l don't think :>o. I They'll PXprt•s,; the inten·st in it, h,·JieVl• that thll:'l' in a fr·a!l>m.ity ori):ani7.t· it thPtn>'Pives, or ,.}sf' han• the fn·Pdom to bt• individ- tlwy don't haw• it. We• ar·e quite 1 •uaiH. Th .. v have to ~acdficp cer- p .. rmis:'in• about what tlwv can tain indi\\i~!ual rights for thl· com-. do. • Boulevard Bowl Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian • American Food Dist:ount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA proudly presents BULOVA the gift-quality watch •rid overfJ . ~t II - 135 ERIE BOULEVARD Free Parking Dl 6-9554 II 15 Barrett St. ~ WALTER Sons 1mily'' VELRY ,''Ill 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACI< BAR ON PREMISES ~~-,~·'.JII·fP.fl'.,~~,..~~·--\\ .. .. ' :CHARLES Opticians i .. ' 1l 604 UNION ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. ~ • 1 · ~- ·~ Phone FR 7-1283 J • • I 'I . ' • • .. ·\ Prescriptions Filled ; Frames and Lenses Repaired Promptly .. I ' . 4 ~ HOURS: 9:00 - 5:30 ... ; • ,, . ~ICHAEL Presents: THE GROUP -Fascinating & unique- FRI. & SAT-9:00P.M. -3:00A.M. SUNDAY-7:00P.M. - 1:00 A.M. 1617 UNION ST. PH. FR 4-345 5 LA PETITE-23 jewels, 2 diamonds, timed to six precision adjustments, unbreakable mainspring. $59.50 BULOVA \23\-23 jewels, timed to six precision adjustments, self· winding, certified waterproof,* un· breakable mainspring, shock resistant, anti-magnetic, sweep second hand. $59.50 Come in and see our complete selection of fine timepieces • Bu/ova watches from $24.75 to $2500 Time Center Jewelers 428 State Street FR 4-0183 AUTHORIZED BULOVA JEWELER *Waterproof cs long os case, crysral ond crown ere tnloct. Certtried water .. proof by The United States Testing Co., Inc. A' I pr ... e~ c d tv,

4 Friday, November 15, 1963 I i Gertrude Ante~nann- New Danish Quartet!ls Jazz • 0 • Performanc,e (Continued from Page 2) I Th R l D thirties. Tunes based on the . e e a e a n p . d F blues and simple riff patterns are I . . rats e . 0 r Sensitive Portrayal the bulk of the band's material. I and unlike many bands Basie does . By Paul Shenvin By Robert S. Hoffman not have one book of arrange-' tl B s t c d ments for dancing and another . It seems that nearly every dle doybl coul fo 1 e-court.eou~, In the past two years the tin- ion, and a number which stl·ove Superb Finale for listening. His music may be tnne someone accepts some sort · epen a e, c leer u ' conscrentl- ion community has had the op- for excitement, but were marred The willingness of those in at- enjoyed either way. A typical of ~ward·, he speaks of the peop~e ous, loyal · · · portunity to attend concerts by· by sloppy attacks and poor tendance to remain until the end Basie reply when a~ked what the behmd ~he ~cenes who made h1s Deep Interest in Students several of the world's leading intonation. The second move- was well rewarded by a superb band will play 011 a particular gig success possible. Too. often, those The characteristic that mwkes string quartets. The JulHard, ment, like the first, was play- rendition of the Debussy Quar- is \Just the same old beef stew.\ who are so essential for the Miss Autemann such an invalu- Vegh, Fine Arts and Kroll Quar- ed with feeling, while the tet, op. 10. The Danish group A~d very tasty stew it is, too.,· s!110oth ru.nning of an organiza- able asset to the college is her tets all fulfilled the highest ex- thiJ:d and fourth movements achieved its greatest success in Listen to his \' erve LPs On l\ly I tJon rema1n r~:ameless . an~. face- genuine concern for and about · pectations of their audiences, and were marked by the daring exe- this concluding work. Sluned Way and Shoutin' Again and/or les~. One of these md1v~duals the student::;. It seems that more than justified their enviable cution of very difficult passages phrasing, sloppy attacl<:s, .and Little Old Groovemaker and you who deserves. s~ mu~h cred1t but everytime the chips are down and reputations. Tuesday night the at break-neck speed. Several of l1 ough edges were gone. The en- will get the point. l'Urely gets 1t JS M1ss Gertrude somebody asks her for a favor or New Danish Quartet succeeded these were rendered brilliantly, semble executed crescendos with Antemann, Dean Pollock's secre- needs a friend to listen to a tale in maintaining the tradition of especially by first violinist Arne absolute control. Its sound was l~ry. S~udents who know her of woe, she is always ready and remarkable performances by Svendsen. There were brief full and plush. Its sound was hke to t~u.nk of her as a. counse- willing te do the job or lend a world renowned groups. The en- lapses of control, and several un- mered and glittered, danced and lor and !nend all ·rolled mto one. [consoling ear. It is not surpris- semble displayed the technique, polished sections, but these were dreamt in a magnificent display TiH1t; {:4;Uit;l' Jt;wc;lc;rs \BUY Wll'H CONFIDENCE\ -YOUR AUTHORiZED KEEPSAKE DEALER 428 State St. FR 4-0183 ing that Gertrude .receives many musicianship, and daring that compensated for by the total of delicate textmes. To this the Perfect Secretary I letters from s 0 ns of Union after characterizes it as a young, high- achievement of the performance .. audience responded by recalling their graduation. Dean Pollock ly professional quartet possess- \The Hunt\ Performed the deserving Danes for three Miss Antemann is a charm- related that if he should pass by ing the ability to infuse its music bows. ing, buoyant woman who wins. his office in the Old Gym late at with a spontaneity that malws After receiving a warm round the affection and admiration of night, he often finds her working its performances exciting as well o:f applause from an enthusiastic SCHENECTADY N everyone with whom she comes after everybody else has desert- as musically fine. audience, the group concluded the 28-A ~otal of llO hi·g:·~c~;~j in contact. When asked to de- ed the ship. This is such a usual Opened With Haydn first half of the program with a students from 12 area hiO'h scribe her outstanding attributes, occurrence that he often finds it Tuesday's concert opened with spi1·ited, and polished perform- sch~ols are enrolled in a I>Ubj~t Dean Pollock responded, \What necessary to chase her out for a rendi-tion of Haydn's Quartet ance of Mozart's B flat quartet, enrichment PI'og:ram at Union can you say about a perfect sec-· her own good when he goes home in G major, op. 77, #1. From K458, \The Hunt.\ Once again College, Dr. John R. Haines, as- retary?\ A list of the glowing' for the evening. the opening ba1·s it was apparent the cellist and violist demonstrat- sistant to the president, has an- adjectives that he uses to describe· that the performers have a com- ed valvet-like tone quality in nounced. her would sound something like J Local Resident bined sound that is rich and mel- their musical dialogue with the Each of the students is taking ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:::::;::::;::::;:::::;:.::::::;:::::::::.;:::::;:::::::;::::::::::;:.::::;:- Born and bred in Schenectady, low. The first movement was vioLins. The presentation was one of three com·ses, which meet 1 Gertrude attended business school delivered with a sensitivity that full of confidence and poise, and every other Monday from 4 ~ 6 in the city. She worked in a rare belied the almost rigid postUl'es was distinguished by phrases of P.M. Tonight -will be the first book store in downtown Schenec- of the playe1·s. Motion was a exquisite poignancy which con- of the actual class sessions, tady and in the old Union library property of the music, not the trasted with the basically playful though an organizational meet- Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere . before assuming her present pos- musicians. And the music flow- nature of the quartet. ing was held two weeks ago. ition in the Student Activities ed and leapt throughout most of Th b · Friday, Nc Fi'V Wi f . Although the B flat quartet is e courses emg offered are Of '1ce. Those students who know the performance. There were, her are very thankful that she however, a few .passages which typica)ly Mozartian in its lyrical computer coneepts, by Thomas R. • · · 1 beauty, it is not a typical classi- Hoffman, professor of electrical 1s assoc1atet with Union. were presented with cold precis- · · bl NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSK£LL£R For reservations phone FR .d.-8917 For Style Quality and Value True artistry is expressed in the brilliant fashion styling of every Keepsake diamond en- gagement ring. Each setting is a masterpiece of design, re- · fleeting the full brilliance and beauty of the center diamond ••. a pe~fect gem of flawless clarity, fine color and meticu- lous modern cut. Authorized Keepsake Jew- elers may be listed in the Yellow Pages. Visit one in your area and choose from many beauti- ful styles, each with the name \Keepsake\ in the ring and on the tag. HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING Please send two new booklets, \How to Plan Your Engagement and Wedding\ and \Choosing Your Diamond Rings,\ both for only 25¢. Also send special offer of beautiful 44 page Bride's Book. Name--------------~-------------------------------- City ______________________ co. state ___ , KEEPSAKE: DIAMOND RINGS, SYRACUSE2, NEW \'ORK, 13202 Unitarian Church 1221 Wendell Avenue Minister: William Gold -SERMON- Symbol ond Substance: The Limits of Language Professor William Murphy, Guest Speaker \If I can ogree with your version of what I told you, then our mind~ have made contact. But in 1he absence of conver~ sation, whole books may be inadequate to express one thought clearly. •• Sunday Service 1 0:30 a.m. Now Open ••• JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RATES FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS LADIES WELCOME cal quartet, because it does not engmeermg; pro ems in history; follow the usual form. In and contemporary philosophy, by it the minuet and adagio are re- Dr. Sven R. Peterson, chairman versed, so that the latter follows of the philoso:phy department, the former. The adagio is high- and Dr. Paul W. Kurtz, associate lighted by an interplay between professor of philosophy. the first violin and the cello, and Participating high schools, this was beautifully brought out which were selected by the State in the New Danish Quartet's in- Education Depa1·tment are Lin- terpretation. The fourth move- ton, Mont Pleasant, Bethlehem ment, which is light and frolic- Central, Colonie Central, Shak;er some, saw the ensemble in its High School, Mohonasen, Nislca- best fo1·m of the first half of the yuna, Guilderland, Scha1mont, conce1't. It was performed with Scotia-Glenville, and Draper. fervor, and climaxed the Mozart Each high school selected its stu- work, a work which was gener- dents in the program. It is be- ally presented with more consist- ing financed by a grant from the ent accuracy than the Haydn, and state and by the particiJpating We invite you to visit. us. which was equally well received. schools, Dr. Haines said. · ·-=============== ~============~ This is the second year f@r the Free Parking In Rear our church. --·----- - :program at Union. · personal interviews for • • leading to technical and managerial careers. 18 month training programs. SEE OUR REPRESENT A liVE WHEN HE VISITS YOUR CAMPUS ON DECEMBER 9 PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC AND GAS COMPANY EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER ONE OF THE COUNTRY'S LARGEST SUPPLIERS OF ENERGY, .,._., The student who enters hi~ jun- ior year at Trinity College this fall will take four courses instead of five. According to Professor George B. Cooper, chairman of the faculty committee for the; new curriculum, \the dropping of one course in the junror and sen- ior year each will not result in a student having a lighter load. The plan on the contrary was to increase the actual concenh·ation in the major.\ \The purpose of the new cur- riculum is not to educate for all time in four years. The new curriculum is a guide to subse- quent self-education,\ declares Professor Cooper. Patronize Our Advertisers YOU AN ENVELOPE. LICKER? A stamp sticker? A letter writer? Most of us aren't. That's why the telephone was invented. A long Distance call home is so much quicker than writing. Pleasanter, too ... because you're \home'' for a little while. Try it, tonight. Rates are lower, remember, ·~V~ry evening after 6:00 and all day Silnday. Extra low for many calls witt1in New York State after 9:00 p.m. ®New York Telephone Pete Wer Grandstal careers 01 the curre1 ~·er was before tal games ag tauzzi is : key man his pulli11 h11ve beer while Bri blasted hi Ham.nt ing its J years ag: tomorrow Field. I1 season tl · all out t large Fa! ed at Sa With 1 '' to a clo find the pointing on Satur, tory at 1 the secor ·two cam· 4• • 1 The a: test betw is one of nation, 1 Going i: each tea1 games; ties, eig: Bcoreless ties and national for an a ONE 0 c CL All W PICI 527 No F

er 15, 1963 5 1nce 1yal ·Five Dutch1nen End Grid Careers MermenPreparel Brown, Caye Elected ! With Hamilton Game Tomorrow· ~?urv~~~,~~2;'.~~~d New Soccer Captains ale those in at- mtil the end by a superb bussy Quar- 'anish group t success in k. Slru·red .ttacks, and ne. The en- ;cendos with 5 sound was sound was danced and ceHt display To this the by recalling s for three N. Y., Oct. high school area high in a subject L at Union Haines, as- ent, has an- Lts is taking which meet r from 4~6 be the firl!lt >s sessions, ;ional meet- ~eks ago. offered are r Thomas R. ' of electrical ; in history; .ilosophy, by n, chairman department, tz, associate 1y. h schools, )y the State 1t are Lin- Bethlehem tral, Shaker tsen, Niska- Schalmont, d Draper. cted its stu- t. It is be- ,nt from the 1artici)\lating said .. y-ear f@r the ters hill jun- College this rses instead ;o Professor :hairm!l.n of Je for the dropping of tor and sen- , result in a ghter load. rary was to :mcentration 'P 1e new cur- .cate for all The new e to subse- \ declares e . ·•sers fAN )PE. R? A I etter 1't. That's invented. ome is so writing. because tie while. 1re lower, ling after lay. Extra ithin New p.m. ephone 4• • I) • Capullo (left to right, top), Pete Grandstaff, and Jon Briggs, (I. to r. bottom) will complete their careers ou the Garnet gridiron tomorrow as the Dutchmen complete the current season against the rugged Hamilton Continentals. Wen· ger was an outstanding offensive center, and defensive linebacker, before taking over the chores at the end slot this year. Injured four games ago his loss has been sorely felt, and will be tomorrow. Fan. tauzzi is a rugged lineman who has been a stalwart on defense and a key man in the Garnet t•unning attack, leading the power plays from his pulling guard slot. Grandstaff, a guard, and Capullo, an end, h;tve been hardworking, everready spot performers for Coach Maras, while Briggs, a junior who has spent his eligibility, has recently blasted his 25(} .]lounds into a starting tackle berth. By Rick Engles Hamilton College will be send- Looking into the past, it can ing its finest gridiron team in honestly be said that the imrnin- years against host Union College ent clash could be any body's ·ball tomorrow at 1:30 on Alexander game. Unfortunately the Con- Field. In the .final game of the tinentals are not arriving- in season the Dutchmen are going Schenectady with past teams. all out to bring victory for the Led by their fine senior quarter- large Fall Weekend c1·owd expect- back Don Burns and halfback Ty ed at Saturday's game. Brown, this year's Hamilton team With tlw fall season drawing is sporting a healthy 6-1 record. to a close the Garnet gridders The first loss of the season was find themselves with a disap- pointing 2-5 Tec01·d. A victory 1 incurred last Saturday as Ham- ilton was knocked from the na- tion's dwindlil'lg unbeaten and untied ranks by Wagner College, 28-8. Whethel' last Saturday's loss has broken the heart and · back of the Continentals, or merely relieved .the tremendous pressure of being undefeated will be answered tomorrow with what uromises to be exciting grid ac- tion. Overpowered by Susquehanna While delivering a 42-6 setback last Saturday to the Dutchmen, Susquehanna showed off their powerful gTound game. Susque- hanna had twenty-three first downs to Union's seven, and 378 yards l'Ushing to Union's thirty. The Garnet's lone tally occurred in the second ,period as AI Hrd- liclm snared one of Susquehan- na's few aerial attempts and rac- ed 65 yards for the score. Once again, during the team's expected loss against the Atlantic Conference powerhouse Susque- hanna, the Dutchmen sustained injuries to key players. Right end John Soper injured his should- er, and Jon Bl'iggs, a tackle, in- curred a leg injury. It is doubt- ed that either •Soper or Briggs, both starters last week, will see any action at all tomorrow. Injul'ies Heal In almost every contest this season the U.C. fans have seen their gridders' manpower sever- ly cut by injuries. In the light of recent inju1•ies, it is fortunate fo1• the Dutchmen that early sea- son injuries a1·e now healing. Mark Unterberg is expected to see action for the first time in th1·ee weeks; Mark was sidel~ned earlier with a leg injury. John Wilson who was to share the cen- ter position in the line this year (Continued on Page 6) on Saturday will be the first vic- tory at hotne this year and only the second home win in the last ·two campaigns. RITZ REST AU RANT National Records The annual fall football con- test between Union and Hamilton is one of the oldest series in the nation, having started in 1890. Going into tomorrow's contest each team has won twenty-eight games; there have been eleven ties, eight of which have been 1'\coreless duels. The number of. ties and scm•eless games are both national intercollegiate records for an annual contest. 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featurinq: - HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap· Serving Schenectady Over 30 Ye<~rs Open 7 Days A Week tftffffY¥¥TfVYtfV¥¥t+tVTt¥fT¥t¥ttfTVYTVYT¥t¥t+ ONE DAY SERVICE CAMPU'S CLEANERS All Work Done on Premises PICKUP AND DELIVERY 527 Nott St., Schenectady, N. Y. Opp. Union College Phone EX 3-5472 UNION INN 517 UNION STREET ....... ++ +* • .................................... ....... ..+.•44 4 6 ,, ,1,4 Jay Jewelry 315 STATE STREET :J)iamon~ ... Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate Importer and Wholesaler. the Co. Arnold .fisher ;50 I ' . seven h~pefuls from last year's Gary Brown and DeiTY Caye@ ------ - stl·ong freshm.an teaf!l. splas~ed were elected co-captains of the I · · · · thFoug·h the fust off1cHd .sw1m- 1964 varsity soccer team at th , part1c1patmg were . g~a!Ie .Jan mmg- wo1·kout of the season two s uad' s b - h 1 e, Barkman, Sweden; 1ns1de Gta·n- , weel1s ag-o. Robert Beaudry, tak- ~ No~ pob t-seasonB anquet e d I carlo Che\·allard, Italy; inside ing over coaching duties from [;. 1 h e:r er f 7 · ;ownhka fu!l-1 Ray Didisheim, Switzerland; full- Tour Tu_rnet·, had organized pre-~· ~c.' almp- trom. otuhg GeepsJet'·l barl< Dan Boesen, Norway; and . h \\as a mams ay m e arne ·1 p · I dd't' t th season practices over a mont !ef . Tl t 1 t d . . , rms. n a ·1 1on o e ex- ago but was unable to attencl, ( ·h ense .. , 1 e. ~en e Jt:mo~, I <\hange students, Beaudry will them due to his ,·arsity soccer I~' c~:~ ~:\}t acqubJ~t~nc~ \: 1 t.h \'I lose three seniors in Bernhard, duties. . 0 ~ a \:as . u a ~ear ag-o, I McCray, and wing J-ack Powell. Leading the returning conlin- ;~a 1 j 1 ~~nda b'!gu~~ll ·~n the baC~et-: The Dutchmen wound up the gent is John Boles, senior free- l' . t' se a earns. aye, I season with 4 wins and 5 losses. s_tyle speoedste1·, who vresentlv af 0 1 1 mc 1 !lu tvet.sopthohmore ha:lfdback surviving a schedHle studded with . . h • r m onnec tcu as earne en- . 1 E holds vars1ty t·ecords m t e 50 th siast. 1 d.'t. f, l pel'enma astern soccer pGwers. and 100 yd. events. Last year BolJ B te f, au 1 .'\ • 10 m ~oac 1 Highlights of the fall were a a-2 Boles won the Coach's Awat·d for h stl eaud Y .for his consistel!~ upset of Colgate and a 6-4 tri- his outstanding contribution to t~cce~ jnl 1 fx~a. e~~~dt. ~h1 p~u umph o'·er Rochester which stands the team. Bill Schauer, owner McCra<y a~ f'eWn ark an atry a::> .the Yellowjackets' only set- of the 200 an<l 500 yd . .freestyle 1 spo es~en. back. records ·is back, aiming .to lower . The boot~rs selected htgh-scor- these records even further. mg Ron Prms, Dutch HELP stu- Rounding· out the freestyle de- dent, . as . m.ost . valuable player. partment are John Drier, George The ~ble l!lSlde JS currently lend- Papanichaloau, Phil Evans, mg Ius dehcate touch to the Sche- George Wilder Jeff Gow and nectady Football Club. .Sopho- Dan Boessen a' fot•eign exchange more Stu Dym was picked as the student. ' most improved player during the Stronger Backstroke season. Dym served as a l'eserve defenseman for the initial stages The addition of Dick Siers to of the campaign, filling in when the backstrokers will increase late-season injuries riddled the their point total this year. He'll Gamet .backfield. be swimming with Jim Garrison, Beaudry expressed his appre. who is expected to see some ac- ciution to five HELP students tion as a freestyler as well. who brought international flavor Senior Bill Bernhard returns and ability to Union soccer. Those as an individual medley perform- . -------------- er, with Paul Shields replacing graduated captain Kal Schneider in the othe1· slot. Shields unof- LEARN TO BOX!! ficially broke the varsity record BE A MASTER OF SELF-DEFENSE. EXPERT l in this event last spring. Dick. TRAINERS' SECRETS CAN BE YOURS! NO I B • t'l't ·11 EQUIPMENT NEEDED. FORM A CAMPUS 1 eane, semor u ·1 1 Y man, Wl BOXING CLUB AMONG YOUR FRIENDS FOR 1 see action in backstroke, breast- FUN, SELF-CONFIDENCE AND REAL PHYSI. I stroke and individual medley CAL FITNESS. COMPLETE BROCHURE AND events. LESSONS ONE DOLLAR. SEND TO: Bt•eaststrokers Dick Heyman PHYSICAL ARTS GYM, 363 Clinton Street, Final Garnet Soccer Statistics p.Jayer Goals Assists Ronnie Prins 11 :l John Fuller :3 2 Giancarlo Chivalilard B 1 Seville Simonds 3 Larry McCray 2 Rolf Kasper 1 Jack Rowell 1 Ray Didisheim Gary Brown NEED YOUR SHOES REPAIRED? WE MEND SHOES Ideal Shoe Repair 1565 Van Vranken Avenue 2 1 and Joe Jacoby will have their Hempstead, Lang Island, hands full in· their attempt to =N;;ew~Y;;\;;;'k;:. ~~~~~;::;~~~i:i~~~~;:;:~~~;:,;:;;:;;;~~;,;;;;;:;~ replace co-captain Will Grant. :0 ------- ---- Both have had little experience, but should improve quickly. So- phomore Dave Rowe will be used largely in the butterfly events, in the freestyle and breaststroke but he could pl'Ove ve1•y useful in other spots as well. Returning Divers Divers Lawton Morrison and David W armflash both return to the squad as lettermen, rounding out what appears to be a strong, well-balanced team. Coach Beaudry's charges have set their sights on an undefeated record, but meetings with the ever-toug-h Williams, Wesleyan, and NYU teams will make this a difficult achievement. Wil- liams has never lost to a Union swim team, and will sport a squad just as strong as the one that handed the mermen their only de- feat last season. In just three short weeks the team will travel to Rutgers for the ECSA relay meet. This tune- up will be followed one week later by the squad's initial dual meet, in which Harpu1•'s peren- nially weak team will attempt to make up for last season's thrash- ing. SAVE ON OWN BRANDS! liquor Store 51 1 UNION ST. EX 3-3111 EX 3-3110 CAM·PUS INTERVIEWS November 25, 1963 ENGINEERING SCIENCES ALL DEGREE LEVELS • Electronics • Mechanical • Industrial • Engineering Physics • M<;~thematiccs • Statistics RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT • • Computer Technology Hardware Design Software Research Communications Systems Propagation Research Complex Design * * * * Eng.neers, Mathematicians, and Physicists should contact their COLLEGE PlACEMENT OFFICER for an appointment with an NSA representative. No test required. NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY WASHINGTON, D. C. area An Equal Opportunity Employer

6 Friday, November 15, 1963 Arnol~ Soci~ty i L F. c. . . . Rematns Acttve · (Continaed from Page 1) several good \name\ bands hir- I I , Newman· • • • . just as pious as the learned schol- ar. TheTe is a feeling of humil- (Continued from Page 1 ) ity which encompasses the rich to Maimonides and the Baal Shem as well as the }loor, as the Baal DOOtb,rw ll • :Dutchmen. The addition of the L' I ._.. • • 1 all important depth to the team 1 created by guard Pete Granstaff The Arnold Air Society is a eel. Bo Diddley and Jerry Lee national honor organization with Lewis were suggested as as pos\ chapters at colleges with sibilities. AFROTC. It is an AFROTC ex- Mike Miller announced that the tra-curricular activity which un- I.F.C. in conjunction with Cam- dertakes sponsorship of various pus Chest has adopted a :foster events throughout the year. child from Greece for one year. On the Union campus the Pat- Money is being sent to help pay terson chapter of the Arnold Air for the girl's education and spend- Society, named after Robert P. ing money. Miller read portions Patterson, former Secretary ·of of a letter which had been re- State and Union gTaduate, func- ceiYed from the .girl. tions both as a service and a soc- II 1 s 1 · A Th S . t . · e p a vatlon rmy ial organization. e 0c1e y ts, h h for example, responsible f(')r the ' It was announced t at t e ''ride board\ in the college book I.F.C.will help the Salvation Army raise money at Christmas time store. · th' A t\ agam ts year. mo ton was Active on Campus passed whereby each h0use would The Arnold Air Society is ac- work a half day shift on Decem- live in various AFROTC activi- bet· 7, ringing beHs and singing ties on the campus. Last spring songs in the business district of the AAS sponsored the miHtary Schenectady. Assignments and oall for the cadets at the Niska- shifts will be decided by drawing yuna Country Club. Second Lieu- lots. The house that collects the tenant George Strasbaugh, who most monev will receive an spoke at Union on Wednesday, award. · November 13, on \The First Days Formation of Liaison Board of a Second Lieutenant,\ was It was decided at the meeting sponsot•ed by the Society. . that the Fraternity Library Li- aison Board would be formed Continual Expansion again. Each house will elect a Founded in 1947 at the Uni- representative. The function of versity of Cincinnati, the Arnold the board is to interpret library Air Society today ~as ovet· 150 policy and rules to the members rhapters. The Socu:ty has con-' ui' the re~pl•di\e houses and to tinued to expand 1ts program present suggestions on improv- which today includes the ,award- ing the workings of the libTaTy ing of two $1,500 fellowships an- to the librarv staff. nually to Arnold Air Society Tri~ to N.Y.C. members for graduate study. na\·e Crandall suggested the 1 possibility of forming a commit- David Berenson, Editor in I t\e to plan a tri:p to New York 1 Chief of the Concordiensis has C'1ty for the ~ore1gn students on announced that positions o:J the! <'al~l!Jll!\ sometlm: next seme~ter. paper are still available to any in- Th1s would provtde an orgamzed terested freshman. Anyone inter- way for the students to ~ee New E'sted in writing, business, or lay- xork as well.· ~s gearm_g, the out should report to the Con cor- 'I :-tghts to be \!Sited speclftcally diensis office Monday and Wed- to the interests of tl;e group. rr:he nesday evenings at 8 p.m. I I.F.C. appro.ved th!s suggestion 11nd a commtttee \nil be formed. 'f' 'f y T T y 'f' 'T T 't T t y t t t f t y t t t t f V t t t f t t i T f '¥ f 'T T f T T T T f T T Dave's %qulre ~hop WHITE LEVI'S 4.49 Furnishings br ~anhatlan 326 ST A'JE ST Daily to 5:30 R • Tues. & Thur. 1 tll f Field's Liquor Store 38 ERIE BOULEVARD (Across from Train Station) ¥Vf¥f¥¥t9¥ttfft¥f¥ff'ffffffYfff'lfft'ff't'T'TYTTfff SAVE ON OUR OWN Olde Village PRIVATE LABEL SPIRITS 44AL4.J..4.*4444.4.1.. 4 A.44444 4 444 4 +4 4 444-4 444 A.64444444 -We Deliver Free- FR4-6846 Shem had all classes of people ToO~e of the most meaningful of come to him f(')r advice and coun- these movements, Chassidism, sel. h . took place in the eighteenth cen- The Dybbuk expresses t e JOY tury under the leadership of the of the Chassidic movement. Baal Shem Tov. Arisi·ng in the Praising the play as a meaning- \lowliest sections of Western ful portl'ayal of courage and Europe, it argued that religion beauty, Rabbi Newman urged that and piety could be expressed by anyone who could should go to the unscholarly which implied the see the Mountebanks' production, people of the land. which will run from November 22 through November -26. Spirit of Movement Rabbi Newman is a graduate Several stories are told of the of Bro'.lrn University and holds spi·rit of the movement. One of degrees from the University of them concerns Yom Kippur, the California and Columbia Univer- Day of Atonement, which is· con- sity. He was also honored with sidered the most important day an Honorary Doctor of Divinity of the Jewish Calendar. On that degree from Brown. He has day a young shepherd boy con- written several books and is the tinuously blew a whistle wMle the author of various works of poe- people of the village were ptay- tr l A . y. ing in t 1e synagogue. ngered ---------- by the noise and distraction which A fast-talking salesman who the boy was causing, the villagers sold Bibles packaged with a sub- censured him severely. The Baal scription to Playboy 'Magazine Shem, however, explained that was arrested at Jacksonville, the boy was just as justified in ·North Carolina. blowing his whistle as they were Police charged David Lee Miller in praying, since he was express- of Baltimore, Maryland, with ob- ing his sincerity and faith in the taining money under false pre- only way he knew. tenses after one of his customers Message of Chassidism complained. Officers said Miller, This, said Rabbi Newman, is the who claimed to represent a non- real message of Chassidism. The existent firm sold 20 of his pack- poor, unlearned peasant can be age dea:ls for about 25 dollars. Our world-recognized trademark-\the P&WA eagle\ -has been identified with progress in flight propul- sion for almost four decades, spanning the evolution of power from yesterday's reciprocating engines to today's rockets. Tomorrow will find that same Pratt & Whitney Aircraft eagle carrying men and equipment to the moon and to even more distant reaches of outer space. Engineering achievement of this magnitude is directly traceable to our conviction that basic and applied research is essential to healthy progress. Today's engineers at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft accept no limit· ing criteria. They are moving ahead in many direc- tions to advance our programs in energy conversion for every environment. Our progress on current programs is exciting, for it anticipates the challenges of tomorrow. We are work- ing, for example, in such areas as advanced gas turbines •.. rocket engines ... fuel cells .•• nuclear power-all opening up new avenues of exploration in every field of aerospace, marine and industrial power application. (Continued from Page 5) and end Ed Cappulo over ~he last with Bob DeMichele is returning thr~e years has been of great and hopes to see action for the assistance to the Garnet. . first time this season. The brea:k Pregame reports . have ~t that to Wilson's leg in pre-season Coach . Joe Maras 1s pulhng all practice has been felt throug·hout stops m an attempt to end the the entire year. Dutchmen's seas<?n on .a happy While injuries al'e hard to take, note. . TI:e team lS keepmg q!-:uet they do heal. The break made. on what ~s remored to be se1·~ous · each year by graduation is per- changes 1n the Garnet backfield. manent. Seeing gridiron action Th~ extent of ~hese chang!'ls and for the last time in a Garnet uni- thmr results wtll be unverled at form are seniors Pat Fantauzzi, kickoff tomorrow. Pete Wenger, Pete Gl'anstaff, and Ed Cap:r>ulo. Guard Fantauzzi and end Wenger, both having been retarning lettermen and starters, will be sorely missed by the RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES BAR SUPPLIES POLVETHELENE CELLOPHANE Patron1ze Our Advertisers DRUG SUNDRIES NOTIONS NOVELTIES RENTALS: SILVERWARE GLASSWARE DISHES J. NOGEE & SONS Inc. Successor to S. MOltRIS & SON Established 1888 WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS PAPER-P.lltPER BAGS STATIONERY- SCHOOL SUPPLIES Phone FR 4-4429 - 28-34 N. Broadway Schenectady 5, N. Y. [ .f l. :, j , I, '. J 'I II ; ' 1.1 I; \ ·' .. .,, •' tt ,. '• The breadth of Pratt & Whitney Aircraft programs requires virtually every technical talent . .. requires ambitious young engineers and scientists who can contribute to our advances of the state of the art. Your degree? It can be a B.S., M.S. or Ph.D. in: MECHANICAL • AERONAUTICAL o ELECTRICAL • CHEM· ICAL and NUCLEAR ENGINEERING • PHYSICS • CHEM- ISTRY • METALLURGY • CERAMICS • MATHEMATICS • ENGINEERING SCIENCE or APPLIED MECHANICS. Career boundaries with us can be further extended through a corporation-financed Graduate Education Program. For further information regarding oppor- tunities at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, consult your college placement officer-or-write to Mr. William L. Stoner, Engineering Department, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford 8, Connecticut. SPECIALISTS IN POWER ••• POWER FOR PROPULSION-POWER FOR AUXILIARY SYSTEMS. CURRENT UTILIZATIONS INCLUDE AIRCRAFT, MISSILES, SPACE VEHICLES, MARINE AND IN· DUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS. II \''·\·It lll I c ! I i 'i ! I . ' 4' I' :\ ': • ' u DIVISION OF UNIT()RCRAFT CORP. ~ l Pratt & Whitney A ire raft CONNECTICUT OPERATIONS EAST HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT FLORIDA OPERATIONS WEST PALM BEACH, FLORIDA A~ Equal Opporlunlly Employer t ~· Vol. Ki J< B ers of of Uni in Met generf Excep [ Presi 1945, :K Ba!'l'on' Jones l New J1 ton \P: Kendal Kilg< in 1929 on the ington ent po: DePau' he was In 1951 orary . named Gradm receive nalism Aw Unic doctor highes' him ho in the Davids lege a1 versit} of the of the Kilg with s ject oJ lated · He sa sence thing tain. things changi can si \and story next. thing, Kil~ dictim He dE ness which good that tighte econol In 1964, willb and 1 have may: by eJ, Lo 0 Stud' tab!iE the s fer d all l rlent tee 1 has tee h prog: challi 1. 2 3 4 5 6 * 7 t* 8 9 10 11 12 1B 14 lE H *0 **F ll

Now about that text you're selling for $10 \The expense of spirits in a waste of shame is lust in action •.. \ Open All Day Sat. Saturnalia Season at PHI SIGMA DELTA on LENOX ROAD Sat. Nite The Four Pages PHI EPSILON PI Office of the Dean Union College Schenectady, N. Y. November 15, 1963 Theta Chapter of Psi Upsilon Union College Schenectady, N. Y. Gentlemen: This is to inform you that your program for Saturday, Nov. 16, 1963, Fall Weekend, will be the following: oep/ga 4· 6- BOOZE. 10-2-BULLS Your friend, Mr. Ed. Where dld you get tbat stupid mustache? Welcome to Disneyland Paramount Entertainment at KAPPA SIGMA Have Your FALL BALL at DELTA ·PHI .·\)'\\'li 0 0 0 0 ° ,y, ·t;;L. '.: : ~. '' ,: ·. ', .... ', ' . ' . ., . ·\ ' • . I Top This! KA 4 .. 6 p.m.-J .. R. & the Impressions 10 • 2 a.m.- The RAVENS under the BIG T NOW SHOWING ' . The Illusions Sat. • THETA DELTA CHI li •

iS ions I) • DELTA UPSILON DELTA CHI • • • 'IIDiJ'tlihl fill 'llie lllklrlli!llon.o (a sill wm If you can't jump or climb the fence without being caught, by the Dean's searching eyes, WALK AROUND .... but don't miss swinging party ! swinging band! at PHI SIGMA KAP'PA 1 07 Seward Place WtiY SIGMA CHI ? Why Hot?! JJa/(}P'I 'Weekend/ The l\ FLy II Is Back 4-6 COCKTAILS 10-2 THE GOLDEN BERRIES CHI PSI LODGE BETA The Greatest Show On Earth

• ' .. \ . ' - I Ill I .,I,. I .! • •I • r ' . I Ill -- • .. and this Is tho ml...,phone ln Sl2 West DELTA. UPSILON - - DELTA CHI - JJ-a/:Jt''l Weekenc// If you can't jump or climb the fence without being I The caught, by the Dea11's searching eyes, I WALK AROUND • • • \FLY\ but don't miss Is Back swinging party ! swinging band ! 4-6 COCKTAILS at 10-2 THE GOLDEN BERRIES PH:I SIGMA KAP·PA CHI PSI LODGE 107 Seward Place - - - WHY SIGMA CHI ? The Greatest Show Why Hot?! On Earth BETA

Now about that text you're selling for $10 \The expense of spirits in a waste of shame is lust in action 0 0 0\ Open All Day Sat. Saturnalia Season at PHI SIGMA DELTA on LENOX ROAD Sat 0 Nite The Four Poges PHI EPSILON PI Office of tne Dean Union College Schenectady, N. Y. November 15, 1963 Theta Chapter of Psi Upsilon Union College Scnenectady, N. Y. Gentlemen: This is to inform you that your program for Saturday, Nov. 16, 1963, Fall Weekend, will be the following: 4-6-BOOZE 10-2- BULLS Your friend, · .... ·.,, . Where did you get that stupid mustache? Welrome to Disne-;rland Paramount Entertainment at KAPPA SIGMA Have Your FALL BALL at DELTA PHI \A<'companing Odetta will be ••• \ Top This! KA 4-6 p.m.-J. R. & the Impressions 10-2 a.m.-The RAVENS under the BIG T NOW SHOWING The Illusions Sat. THETA D·ELTA CHI • • ' ' .! • I r r ' .. I • oep/ga Mr. Ed. ., Q --------------------------------------~ ·----------------------------------------~~-----------------------------------------

ition of the to the team :e Granstaff 1ver the last m of great met. lave it that pulling all to end the m a happy eeping quiet o be serious · lt backfield. :hanges and unveiled at e . ·•sers JNDRIES lOTIONS IVElTIES 5 : ERWARE SSW ARE DISHES N. Y. IS iS n t. 1: ~- 1- s cl n r- lr y :R •E ~- II .. PLAY REVIEW :Page 3 Vol. 95 - No. 10 Local Stores Offer Discount Student Discount Plan: The es- tablishments listed below are of the student discount plan and of- fer discounts of at least 10% to all Union College students. Stu- dent Council Discount Commit- tee Chairman, Larry Dittleman, has announced that the commit- tee has procured student discount programs with sixteen local mer- chants. 1. Apex Music Korner, 348 State St. 2. Apex Store, 334 State St. 3. Carlson and Sons, 515 State st. 4. Dambrose Cleaners, 1517 Van Vranken Ave. 5. Eddy \D\ Men's Store, 164 Jay St. 6. French Tailors, 137 Jay St. * 7. Gallo Florists, 96 Jay St. ** 8. Graubart Jewelers, 166 Jay St. 9. Luigi's Restaurant, Barrett St. 10. Mother Ferro's, 1115· rett St. 11. Owen Optical Co., 154 Bar- rett St. 12. Roth's,. 504 State St. 13. Seneca Laundry, 1585 Van Vranken 14. Time Center Jewelers, 428 State St. 15. Walker's Pharmacy, 51i State St. 16. Fred's Esso, Union and Jay St. *Only on major weekends *\'For Mother's Day and Christ- mas Only, Founded at Union College 1n 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1963 Steve Dubansky elocutes passionately. A scene from 'The Dybbuk. Sociology Students Aid Community By Mark Kasowitz STUDENT ABROAD Page 2 PRICE 15 CENTS N ott Theater To Present 'The Dybbuk' By Robert Stolzberg The Mountebanks open their season tonight with a performance of Solomon An- sky's \The Dybbuk.\ The play, which will have nightly showings until Tuesday eve- ning, marks the premier of the Nott Memorial Theater. \The Dybbuk\ is a \great trag- edy and a moving love story\ ac- cording to Professor John Gird- ner, who co-directs the play with Professor Gifford Wingate. Con- tinuing, Girdner described the play as having a dignity deeply rooted in the traditions and cul- ture of the Chassidim of the sev- enteenth and eighteenth centuries. It is on the same plane as would be one of Shakespeare's works. As such, it is a perfect piece to dedicate the theatre. It \befits the heralding of a new, potentially first-rate theatre.\ Problems Posed This is not thP first time the Mountebanks have produced arena productions. Last year's produc- tion' of Gelber's \The Apple\ and the production of \Stalag 17\ of several years ago were done in the round. This form of set-up has several problems which do not arise in a normal, proscenium ar- rangement. As people sit on all sides of the stage, all furniture must be complete, rather than us- ing the false fronts so often used otherwise. It must also be smaller so that it does not block anyone's view of the stage. In an arena production there is also no back- drop. As these are often used to create mood, this places extra de- mands on both the actors and the costuming people associated with the performance. The good points, however, are felt to far overweigh these difficulties. This system brings the audience to within five or six yards of the stage. This al- lows greater interplay between them and the actors, making for a ml?re exciting performance. Howard Taubman, drama critic of The New York Times, once said of a similar theatre that this type (Continued on Page 6)

2 <nnnrnr Publlehe.t· Frlda;ya du•·lng the e~hool ;year by the Student Body or Union Collece, Schenectady, N. Y. Na· tlonal Advertising RepresentatiVE'· National Advertising Service. Inc. College Publishers Represent a t·l v\ 420 Madison Ave .. N. Y. c. Editorial Office. Old Gym, Union College, Publica! !on Office, S~he­ nectady Printing Company. 602 Broadway. Flnter<>d In the A<·he· nPNndy Posl Offlf>P RA SPcond Class )[all )latter. Ruhserlptlon 15c a <·opy: $3 a yeAr deJivPr.Pd Finywhf'rf\ In the rnltod !'ltatAB. SENIOR BOARD DAVID BERENSON '64 .................. FR 2-6583 ...................................... Edltor in ChleJ IVENS LEFLORE '64 ...................... DI 6-989& .............................. Business Manager SIMON SOBO '64 ................................ DI 6-9848 .................................. Managing Editor ROBERT KRAMER '6o ................................................................................. News Eldlt<>r t\c~~1:~~~~w.~~o·~:~·:.::::::::~:::::::::::-::·::::::::::-:::·-:::-:.-:·:·:-:::.:-::::::.::-::-::::-:-~:-::·.-::~~~~~~-~A~;~i~~ Campus Construction: I Over the past fifteen years Union College has con- structed or renovated five residential buildings: West Col- lege, Richmond House, Raymond and Potter Houses, and South College. Every one of these dormitories has been virtually outdated from the day it has been finished. In the near future a new residential quadrangle will be built in Achilles Field and the inside of North College will be reno- vated. In planning these new buildings the college must learn from its past mistakes and must construct buildings that at last wil be truly livable. .All of the recently built dormitories have been built on the \cell-block\ principle with two-man rooms opening onto long corridors. While Union has been building in this style, other colleges have started to construct dormitories based on the suite system with small groups of students having their own living room, bathroom, and sometimes even refrigerator. Union likes to compare itself with Amherst, Williams, and Wesleyan. All three, as well as numerous other col- leges, are constructing dormitories that will permit stu- dents to live comfortably in small groups. Bowdoin, using a similar approach, is building a new residential and cul- tural center for all its seniors. The example of the new dormitories at Amherst, where four students who room to- gether each have single rooms in addition to a living room and a bathroom, is the rule, not the exception. Union can- not hope to remain competitive with these schools unless it constructs similar facilities. These more luxurious dormitories will obviously cost more money. However, we strongly feel that over the course of time the dormitories will more than prove their worth. West College is not yet fifteen years old, yet a major refurnishing of it is currently in progress. If the college had been willing to spend more money when West was first built it could have avoided the expensive repairs that will merely make West College tolerable, not pleasant. Furthermore, the same amount of work that is being per- formed today would have been much cheaper fifteen years ago due to the constant inflation in the building industry. The students at Union have been waiting for better dorms for many years. In the early 1950's the same com- ments and criticisms that we are making now were made by many students. Nothing ever was done in response to the many suggestions and complaints. We are sure most Union students would be wiling to pay a higher room rent if they could get what they consider decent living condi- tions. Merging On Mediocrity Union is in deep danger of being entrapped in a self- perpetuating mediocrity. With the construction of new buildings as well as with many other aspects of education, Union is afraid to set its sights high enough. We ha.ve heard many people express the opinion that the college will never be able to raise enough money to pay for dormi- tories similar to those at other colleges. Of course they will not raise the money if they never try. Union is supposedly in the middle of a long-range plan_ We find it inconceivable, therefore, that the future is not considered in planning dormitories. To raise the money for an excellent dormitory may take two or three years longer than raising the money for a barely adequate dormi- tory. However, if the building is going to last one hundred years, why cannot we afford this extra wa:it at the begin- ning? We suggest that the students of Union College, both through the Student Council and through individual letters, and petitions, make their viewpoint strongly known to the Administration and to the Trustees. The students shauld state their opinion that a completely different approach is needed in constructing dormitories, not merely a few modi- fications. No building should be built at all if it will be outmoded in ten years. We will have more to say about other developments in campus construction in our next issue. Friday, November 22., 1963 Friday, N RichardAron Q.detta Met With Mixed Reaction AJ Reports On Life Abroad The following article is written by Richard Aron, '65, currently spending his junior year in Scot· land. Mr. Aron held the post of Assistant News Editor last year. This weekend Union was treat- ed to a folk festival which began with a hootenanny on Friday night and ended with Odetta's concert on Saturday night. The hootenanny, which featured sev- eral Union groups as well as the Gallows Singers, offered vari- ety and therefore appealed to most of .its audience. Odetta, on the other hand, disappointed those 'Who know her by not singing any of her famous songs, and pleased only some of those who were 'hitherto unexposed to her style. The performers at the hooten- anny were surprisingly compe- tent, though not original, while Odetta, with her unique musical personality, was unins.pired and tmexciting for the most part. Long Delays Both the hootenanny and the Saturday concert began unpro- pitiously as a result of extremely poor planning which caused long delays in admitting ticket holders to the gym and chapel. Large numbers of students were kept By Robert S. Hoffman waiting for more than one-half hour aftel,' the scheduled begin- ning of the concert before they were even let into the chapel on Saturday. Although the crowd be~arne restless, it did not be- come boistrous or diminish and the chapel was packed by the time the concert began. Students filled all the seats and overflow- ed onto the steps of the stage. Even the mediocre first half did not cause any appreciable de- crease in the size of the audi- ence, which again reached \stand- ing room only\ size for the sec- ond half~ Performance Was Weak Odetta is definitely a polished artist, and, judging from her re- cordings and reputation, she is capable of thrilling an audience. On Saturday, l!.owever, her polish and ability did not compensate for her lack of fire, although they evoked a favorable response from the audience. Both accompanists and Odetta are excellent music- ians and outstanding performers, but, for aU their convmcmg ex- t 'Th€ pressions of involvement with the music, they did not establish ~ intimate or personal communica- tion with their audience. Instead they were able but separate, not al'oof or· indifferent, but apart. And they have since received a II' mixed reaction which belies the thunderous applause that erupted at the end of the concert. That outburst was, perhaps, a reflec- t tion of the audience's unfulfilled expectations and an invitation to Odetta to do better in an encore, rather than an expression of un- ill reserved appreciation, While Odetta was .poised and charming during her renditions, she was not moving. Her fam- ous \big sound,\ though far from ' weak, did not jUstify its reputa- tion for it was neither remark- ably rich nor consistently in tune. Perhaps the most pleasing aspect .., of the performance was the beau- tiful, se!'ene smi1e which broke out on Odetta's face at the end of each song. il \This represents the first iu a series of provocative -discussions written .exclusively for the Con• cordiensis on education and othet aspects of life of the Scots. I will devote later articles to my im- pressions of more Indigenous at· tributes of the Scots, such as the \talent of the birds\ (in Ameri· can, thE' beauty of Scottish girls), peculiarities of Glasgow and the whole region of the Clyde. In this first article,. however, I have thought it best to discuss the Uni· versity and university life, since that is the ,basis of al\ student artivity. To the visiting student, the sys· tern of University here is almost unbelievably inefficient and hope- lessly inept, the Scottish student, inured by this time to the ways of his countrymen, probably sees this inefficiency as an essential part of his life and takes little notice. Building A Jazz Library The most flagrant case of Scot- tish inefficiency is the University administration. Many of the ad- ministrative procedures of the University date to 1870, when the University was moved to its pFeS· ent site from its previous location in Central Glasgow, where it had· stood since its founding in 1451. To begin with, it must be noted that university administration here is rather unlike that of the ad· ministrations of colleges and uni· versities in the U. S. British uni· ve1·sity administration has no say, whatever, in the kind of clubs which are formed, in the choice of speakers of these clubs (the ad· ministration does not choose any speakers itself, nor does it lend support, monetary or otherwise, to anyone who does). Fu1·ther· more, it does have some voice, however laryngitic, with regard to the courses a student is expected to pass in order to receive a de- gree. Beyond that point, however, it is solely up to the particular department to decide exactly what it teaches him, so that, as it works out, the administrative heads de· cide the courses required, in name, while the professors decide the courses' required content. One of the purposes of this series of articles is to aid its readers in the building of a col- Iection of jazz recordings. In the past, collecting recordings was quite an adventure. The col- lector would rummage through ~ld junk shops, people's atti:es, and any number of other places hoping to find an ancient 78 Paul Whiteman disc with a short Bix Beiderbecke solo on it. Today much of the romance has gone ~ut of collecting but it is still possible to find really good jazz recordings in unusual places and often for very little mon- ey. In Schenec- tady there are two such places within walking distance of the college. One is Stewart's ware- house on Broadway just off Un- ion Street; the other is the Big N just below the college at the cor- ner of Nott Street and Maxon Road. Stewart's is Larger At the moment Stewart's has the larger selection of the two, hut the Big N offers two LP's which are very good values at $1.27 each. 'l~hese are collections .of Dizzy Gillespie's early record- ings with his first big band and small groups comprising such Physical Plant Unchanged men as Charlie Parker, Al Haig, What little power the adminis- ~helley Manne, Dexter Gordon, tration does exercise, relative to American universities, is enough L e .t t e r s to overwhelm it and bl'ing out its total iQcapability to deal with any. thing with any deliberate speed. For example, in my own case, I knew that I would be going to Glasgow University in January, 1962, but only three weeks ago- one week into the term-did I get an official letter of acceptance. When I complained about this to one of the lecturers, he seemed surprised that they had been that effiCient; he had been working at the University for three months before he got a letter requesting him to join the staff. Physically, the University is al- most identical to the way it was in 1870, for not a building has been added since the first World War. Changes in the unive1·sity ground plan have consisted, al- most exclusively, of the annexing of some old homes in the area. About half of the university build- ings are still without central heat- ing. Small electric heate1·s are, therefore, to be found everywhere, but these are wholly inadequate at present, and will probably be useless in the winter, since elec- tricity is often rationed. Intensive Education What is most remarkable about the entire University scheme; however, is that despite all anti- quities, the student emerges after three or four years with an excel· lent training in his field. In medi- cine, for instance, the prospective doctor has done enough dissec· tions in his first year, of the usual type, to qualify him for dissecting a human body in his second year of the six year program. By the time a prospective mathematician has reached the fourth year, he has had a rigorous and intensive training in topology, algebra, pro· bability, nume1•ical analysis, cal· culation, differential equations, an- alysis, geometl·y. The \catch\ in all these cases is he studies only three subjects a session, But then, there is something to be said for learning fewer subjects well, rather than learning many sub· pects only fairly.'' To the Editor of Coneordiensis: Since its inception in 1939, the World University Service has helped students and the faculty members in need throughout the world. WUS has responded when earthquakes and wars have caus- ed destruction. Today WUS is embarking on a program to ex- tend education in the developing countries, WUS is an international stu- dent relief organization. Through contributions to WUS, students and faculty members in many countries help their colleagues in the emerging nations. As Prime Minister Kenyatta has said, the Kenyans must fight their enem- ies: ignorance, sickness, and pov- erty. WUS attacks these prob- •ltoms by providing the following services: 1) educational facilities; 2) student health; 3) food and lodging, and 4) individual and <>mergency aid. This is a worthy cause and your help will be greatly appreciated. Jaeob Lieb '6S To the Editor of Coneordiensis: Many complaints have been heard in regard to the long wait at the door of Saturday night's Odetta concert. This was indeed a regrettable but, unfortunately, an unavoidable situation. The explanation is simple. It had been estimated that an hour would be needed for preparation prior to opening the doors. This preparation consisted of the ar- tists' rehearsing on stage with the lighting and sound crews and Odetta's changing into her · cos- tume for the performance. Fin- ally, ushers, ticket collectors, and other involved personnel had to be given instructions and then situ- ated. Unfortunately, the per- formers arrh•ed one-half hour late and thus, a delay in opening the doors beeame a necessity. Our apologies to those mem- bers of the student body who were inconvenienced by this situation. President, Class of '66 John C. Seifert By Tom Krehbiel and Lucky Thompson, and of Duke Ellington's work from the late forties. These recordings are on the Rondolette and/or Gal- axy labels; the two are inter- changeable. Both are easily worth the price. The best way to cover all the good jazz Stewart's has cheaply is to list them, which I shall do. For $1.47 you can get: Basie Plays Hefti, the score from I Want to Live, Dixieland A La Carte (which is the same as an album titled Dixieland, also sold there but for 99c), either of two Wynton Kelly albums on Vee Jay, Fantastic Frank Strozier with Booker Little, Jazz Festival in Hi Fi, a sampler containing two disc, or Kenny Dorham-Jazz Coittemparary. For $1.00 you have a choice of Jimmy Smith's Walk on the Wild Side album or a couple of Ella Fitzgerald discs. They also have a few of the A Tribute to • • . LPs put out by Crown. These are all very good, as long as you are sure you have the ones put out by Crown. I bought an album of Duke Elling- ton tunes on another label last EXCLUSIVE EUROPEAN FILMS! year and threw it out; so be care- ful. On Columbia's Harmony . label you can get Ralph Sutton's t Salute to Fats Waller and Inti· mate Swing by the John Kirby Sextet for 77c each. Leadbelly is available on Sutton for 77c, \ but don't .get it in stereo and don't get the Josh White record put out by the same people; both are atrocious. Last but not least, , there is a Julian Priester LP on Riverside with Jimmy Heath and Elvin Jones which Stewart's sell for 97c. Riverside is discontinu- ing a number of their albums, in- ~ eluding some very good numbers, and they should soon show up in Stewart's and other places of this sort. .., , If one were to buy all the rec- ords listed above, one would have a good basic jazz record collec- tion, and would have spent no ., more than $20.00 to do it. So · keep your eyes open; thousands of LPs are put out every year, and many good ones don't sell well enough to stay on the mar- II ket. If you watch and wait you may be able to pick them up for a song. HELD OVER thru WED. at 7 and 9 117 Mohawk Ave., Scotia DINO DE LAURENTIIS Presents Directed ., ALESSANDRO BLASETTI In TECHNICOLOR8 ULTRASCOPE AllllllO.FrtiKII co-proctuctlon, R.o.r.o.R. Film (Rome), Orsay Films, (Parts) Dillflbwltd bJ COLUMBI~ PICTURE$ Picture• E \The J of about litual an, parts ar pressive, ·' ~ lore anc : somethin I subconsci rational!~ • . who retu 1 of the li courts 1 ridiculou: erful, an of them also pleJ and ther moments exorcisec her dead senger, ~ ous char ~. Clinton, nouncem cism scE fold t: voices, dressed beard, i< tre as c p The plenty < 'II ..• ·. ~======================~ RECORDS OF COMEDY - JAZZ - CLASSICAL- FOLK AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS TAPES AND RECORDS FOR RENTAL ON CLUB PlAN APEX MUSIC KORNER State St. at Corner of Broadway Have been recommending - HERSHEL Phone FR 7-1112 MAURICE B. WALTER Maurice B. Graubart & Sons· ''3 IJnion Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWElRY \'.· ·I COM Tt BE A M~ TRAINERS' EQUIPME~ BOXING I FUN, SELl CAL FITN LESSONS PHYSICAL 363 Clintc , Hempsteac New York v RECC l. ! \'

3 22., 1963 Friday, November 2l, 1963 • A Review Of Ansky's ex- with establish communica- Instead not e 'The Mountebanks Fall Dybbuk- Pro~duction N. Allen, Division II Chairtnan, Questioned On Plans And Policy but apart. received a belies the 1 erupted That a reflec- i unfulfilled nvitation to an encore, of un- ill poised and renditions, Her fam- far from 8 its reputa- remark- in tune. aspect ., the beau- broke at the end (J •• so be care- Harmony . Sutton's 'l and Inti· John Kirby Lead belly for 77 c, \ stereo and record people; both not least, ~ LP on and sell discontinu- albums, in- .t numbers, show up in of this ... , all the rec- would have collec- e spent no do it. So ~ ; thousands every year, don't sell the mar- It wait you up for Scotia 1 rll'''' (Continued from Page 1) school like Union which should· which the students can exert a that the division has set up. ln be protected most jealously. But maximum of effott and are not the past .few years, we have insti· I W?uld cert~inly not like. to see bogged down by low-level clericul tuted examination requirements the rt'l'esponsible or wasteful pad- work. and seni<H' pl'ojects requirements ding of' the faculty. In one Hense, which tend to bring to the senior however, I would like to see the In a number of ways this re- search center and the funds that it has administered have had a gt·eut deal of value for the divi- sion. This is not to say that it is a big research operation, for it is not. What will happen when th~ funds of the Ford Foundation are no longer available, I am not quite sure. I should hope that faculty- student research would continue and flourish, I think that the Re- search Center has proved to be a valuable device for admini:;tering these activities. year a concentrathm of effol't and smaH departments in the Division a synthesizing of one major. <)f Socia;] Studies undergo some We now have opened up three. expansion. I think that in gen- departments in the division for eral two-man departments should freshman students. If a freshman be expanded to allow for three has room in his program he may men. select courses from phHosophy, Do you believe that the History sociology, or economics. I think 10 course should be altered or that this is an important contribu- made an elective'f tion to the opening up of the This is a problem which relates freshman curriculum. We feel that not only to departments but, in a ' this is an excellent opportunity larger sense, to the college as a . for freshmen to 'be exposed to this whole. I think there are a good type of work which they have many arguments which speak in never . encounte1·ed before coming favor of this general freshman to college. In addition, numerous. course. There are, however, many areas have been expanded j.n the strong ideas on the other side past several years. Professor Fer-, which maintain that freshman .guson has been conducting some .should be given a wider choice of sections concerned with East As- electives. I'd rather not discuss .ian studies and with the anival this in greater detail because it is . of Mr. Jones to our department a larger question than a depart- we have acquired a man who is mental or even a divisional one. not merely a very gifted Ameri- In what way does the Social Re- . can historian, but is also qualified search Center benefit the faculty to teach a course in Russian His-. and the students . tory. These are courses which The Social Research Center is were either not covered· before or an organization that the Division : not covered -consistently. of Social Studies has established What is your opinion of the various proposals to change the school calendar. Pictured above is a crucial scene in the Mountebanks' fall production, and cast a:like, and The Mounte- I don't want to do any injustice in order to have a clearing house An Enjoyable Play to any other departments in the house through which research division. I think that if you ex- funds and certain activities can be The Dybbuk, by S. Ansky. Everybody has talked at som~ time or other this year about cal- endar change. I have found my- self right in the middle of this particular discussion. The com- mittee of which I was chairman that met this summer gave a re- port which indicated that without major changes or some additional support in the way of funds, the calendar proposed by the Presi- dent and adopted by the council last year would not be valuable enough to warrant the changes that would have to go into effect !f it were put in operation. This IS not to say that we regarded all aspects of that calendar as bad. In fact, , if you read the report that we wrote, you will find that we made a recommendation that entailed a use of the \Davidson By Carl Niemeyer banks in their current produc- tion have solved a great many if \The Dybbuk\ is compounded not aH of them. They are some- of about equal parts of religious \·hat handicapped possibly by titual and melodrama. The ritual having \The 'Dybbuk\ as their parts are slow-moving but im- first production in their new pressive, being rooted. in folk- theatre. The round stage is good '~ lore and mysticism, to which for this play, but there was some j something in our blood or in our confusion in the actors' moving l subconscious responds. Viewed about which a greater familiar- / rationally, the stories of the dead ity with the new facilities will • · who return to inhabit the bodies correct in future productions. 1 of the living or to appear in the Also, parts of the play moved a courts as plaintiffs may seem litt~e slowly, as if dignity, which ridiculous, but they are still pow- hs certainly essential to the per- erful, and An-ski make the most formance, were not consistent of them in the play. There is with swift-paced movement. To also plenty of evocative poetry, this reviewer, the melodrama and there are some blood chilling should have been briskly con- moments as when the dybbuk is ducted, the ritual more deliber- exorcised, or when Leah joins ately. A musician might say that her dead lover, or when the Mes- part of the play is andante and senger, a mysterious and ambigu- part allegro and that the differ- ous character, well played by Bob entiation between them should be ~. Clinton, makes his oracular pro- ·clearly marked. It was not al- nouncements. In fact, the exor- ways so at the opening perform- cism scene, provided with three- ance. fold trumpet calls, offstage ------------- . ' voices, and a venerable rabbi \\· .,..,....,...,...,.....,_,...,..,.._..._~...,..,.._,._....,.,.,.,.__ dressed in a robe white as his beard, is about as effective thea- tre as one can find. Problems Presented The play, however, offers plenty of problems for director KNAPP SERVICE LTD. Erie Blvd. & Liberty St. Phone Dl 6-5900 & IMPORTS PARTS AND SERVICE ONE DAY SERVICE CAMPUS CLEANERS All Work Done on Premises PICKUP AND DELIVERY 527 Noll St., Schenectcdy, N. Y. Opp. Union College Phone EX 3-5472 There were, however, many d' t d I amine each department you will coor ma e . t came into exist- things to enjoy during the even-. find that either courses have been ence through a grant made by the ing. It was pleasant to see an· enriched or that the content of the Ford Foundation five years ago to unhackneyed piece of theatre, and courses has been changed due to encourage fa c u 1 t y- student re- we can be grateful to Professors the fact that new men hav~ joined search. The Center acts as a kind Wingate and Girdner-as always the faculty. 1 think that Profes- of committee in which the funds -for not choosing the obvious. sor Thimm has proved .a valuable available through the Ford Foun- Costumes and lighting we1·e both· addition to the Economics depart- dation have been allocated. I effective. All the actors did well, ment and through his experience would like to suggest that such a with particular credit going to has provided for a wider scope of committee or center can play a Carol Sitz as Leah, to Joel Loe- material being taught by this de- valuable role even in a small col- wenstein as Channon (a rather 1 Th f d ungrateful part, since the hero. partment. eg~. e un s that this organi- dies in the first act and appears. Are there any immediate plans zatJon has been administering for b tl 1 for the expansion of Dl.vl'si\on II'. the past five years has given to a su sequen y on y as a voice)., to b f 1 Dee Singer as Sender, and to Again, I'm not quite sure what num er 0 peop e in the faculty W 'll' s h h d b you mean by \expansi'on.\ The. and.numerous students the oppor- 1 Jam c auer as t e age ra - t t t · · b . s · 1 college is always awa·re of pr·ob- um Y o engage m mdividual re- I. ornettrnes, in a 1 the parts, h Th \' h · !ems relat1\ng to s1'ze and the rat 1 ' 0 searc · ese are proJ'ects in t e vo1ces and intonation were those of young twentieth century of faculty to students. My own Americans rather than of mature opinion is that we should not al- ' eighteenth century Poles; but this low the faculty-to-student ratio is a difficulty hard to overcome. to become too large. I think that All in all, The Mountebanks' this is one of the qualities of a· \Dybbuk\ .provides a full and in- teresting evening at the theatre. TIIUt; £t;niEI\ Jew«;lc:;.-s \BUY WITH CONFIDENCE'' Now Open ••• JAY BILLIARD LOUNGE 167 JAY ST. SPECIAL RATES FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS LADIES WELCOME Unitarian Church 1221 Wendell Avenue Minister: William Gold -SERMON- TOWARD A NEW ETHIC 1 'Ethics is not about God, or traditions. Ethics is about making people happy, today.\ - R. H. W. Sunday Service 10:30 a.m. our church. We invite you to visit us. (Continued on Page 4) FOR SALE- 1 949 Harley Davidson 3-wheels GOOD CONDITION Phone FR 2-7889 SUPERIOR BARBERSHOP 601 NOn ST. (Across from Nott Gate) Specializing in Flat Top & Ivy League Haircuts -YOUR AUTHORIZED KEEPSAKE DEALER Free Parking In Rear Dave's :Squire $hop • Moving Oct. 1st, Fight ARTHRITIS ~0\1[Il®lliJ®[J[I ITII!a COMPLETE VOLKSWAGON To 1000 State St. LEARN TO BOXII BE A MASTER OF SELF-DEFENSE. EXPERT . MARCH OF DIMES! Down to Louis', let us go, Let the la~er freely flow. ~ '• TRAINERS' SECRETS CAN BE YOURS! NO EQUIPMENT NEEDED. FORM A CAMPUS BOXING CLUB AMONG YOUR FRIENDS FOR FUN, SELF-CONFIDENCE AND REAL PHYSI- CAL FITNESS. COMPLETE BROCHURE A.ND LESSONS ONE DOLLAR. SEND TO: A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere ER 7-1112 J WALTER mily'' PHYSICAL ARTS GYM, 363 Clinton Street, 1 Hempstead, Long Island, New York. VAN CURLER MUSIC SHOP 501 State Street $ RECORDS JAZZ POPS MUSIC Student Discounts CLASSICS NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. .Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations J?hone FR 4-8917 Boulevard Bowl 1 35 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWtiNG LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES Each a masterpiece of design . • • reflecting the full .brilliance and beauty of the perfect center dia- mond. Rings cnlugcd to show dctoB. Prices lncludt- Federal TA!t. TIME CENTER JEWELERS 428 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. CONTOUR CUT TO FIT YOUR FlGU.RE •• , AUTHENTICALLY TA TEL J77·i061 p n ·PI ........ ~ ...................................... ~~ ...................................................... +· ' j; ,. j

4 Theaetetus: Problems In Publication Brie/l Allen • • • N ovelllb1•r 22 (Continued from Page 3) Calendar.\ I still feel that it of- The Mountebanks fat! pt•oduc- fers a great many possibilities. tion of The Dybbuk by S. Ansky We did feel on the basis of our is opening tonight in Nott Me- d h b · mol'ial at 8::l0 P.M. The produc- own stu y and on t e asis of Early last rear Wnyne Som- i It wa::; tluough her letters of in- . . 11 h h T d considerable discusion with people ert~, a memht'l' of l'nion't~ library ti mluetion that The Idol obt·,· 1 11 ed· twn wr· run t l'OUg · ues ay from other colleges that a three t ff 1 ·1 ~ evening. Tickets are available \a -w 11 l' rummaging through tlw <·oopt•mtion and assistance of. f'l·ee ·of ~harge for all Union Col-· term calendar offers a great many tlw lihnu·y an·hi\'l'::; - <'ham•etl tlw Hamilton Press in Rensselaer lege students at Nott Memol'ial. udvantages. It is evident that a upon a manust'l'ipt. The pages -the pt·ess which bundled the good many people connected with eonsiderinp; their ont' hundre 1 i GrePk type. November 24 the college do not share this view. years, had bet>11 pt·esen·t•d in g-ood Work tht>n began. Somers did I think that there has been a mis- <'Oilllition. Tht' handwriting be- tlw truns<·t·ibing and editing in The Community Vesper Service understanding. that the commit- longed to Taylt•r Lewis, a furmt•r ,, small nffiee located in Union's will be held at 7:30 P.M. in Me- ·tee had recommended flatly the proft•ssor Hf elassics at L'nion shaff'e1· Libmry. As a section modal Chapel St:mday. Dr. Dun- adoption of a trimester plan with- Collt•gt'. Tht• ctlll'O\\ert•d do<\u- of ntanusl·l'ipt was transcribed it can Howlett, of the All Saints out further study. This was not ment \\'a;:; a tran,;lation, by \\a::; Sl'l in galley form by Sche- Unitat'ian Church, Washington, the case. Surely if such a calen- !~ewis, of Plato's dialogue, nedady Printers. Greek words wilil speak. dar were to be put into effect, a l heaetetu::;. Resem·eh on Som- 1\'l're ,;et in nonsense syllables so November 25 great deal of study would be re- er.\' behalf 1liselysed tlll' faet that, a::; to provide space for eventual quired. I'm not .sure that it would \\:1th tl~e exeeptwn of a small set'- I insertion of Hamilton's type. The Flu shots will be given in the be best for the college. However, tiOn of the Translator's Prologue, progress was extremely slow and college infirmary on Monday from I did think, and many of the mem- the .~'·ork had neYer bl'f'ore het'n' the problem of proofreading was 10:30 A.M. till 12 noon. All f'ac- hers of my committee thought, publtshed. to present additional difficulties. ulty, sta·ff, and students are wel- that it represented a very valu- 'h . . .. , , Wish~ng to remain as faithful come. able kind of alternative. 1 ree .\laJot I roblems a::; posstblt> to Lewis' work, Som- November 26 What improvements would you In February Somers approach- us took -great pains in the proof- The Interfraternity Council will like to see in the quality of the ed The Idol, Cnion's literarr 1 re:Hiing of the galleys. Proof- meet in the Hale House Student student body? quartel'l~·. For sPveral weeks he, i rea(ling st.>ssions were composed Lounge at 7:30 P.M. Tuesday. I think that the student body and The Idol's t'ditor, Julian Olf, 1 of Somers and two members of always feels that the faculty is diseussed the possibility of pub-~ The Idol Htaff. Somers read the November 27 dissatisfied with it. In a sense li,;hing the manuscript. There original manuscript text aloud- The Thanksgiving Recess be- this is true. I don't think we'd be wet·e three large probletns that vt>rbalizing all punctuation; cor- gi·ns at 12:30 P.M. Wednesday. doing a good job if we were not. had to be solwd before work I rt>ction,; wert> then made on the Students are due hack at school This is not to say that the student <\ould be started: 1) Could a · galleys. These sessions were held for the week of December 2. body has not shown a great deal transcription he made in time to at least once a week (much more of improvement during the twelve publish it as an edition ul' the frequently as the deadline drew December 3 years that l've been at Union in quartt>rly magazine; 2) Where l'iose) for a period of three hours. Station WRUC will meet Tues- terms of the general level of abil- coulci The Idol raise the funds I The proof-reading- of the Greek day afternoon at 4:30 P.M. in Old ity. My feeling is that we are n:eded to eo\'~t· the printing costs i text was assisted , by Norman Chapel. All station members have always looking for something that of a produetwn that would nee-· Johnson, Alfred \ ouman, and 1 been asked to please attend. in a way represents improvement. t>ssarily extend the size of a nor- ' S\·pn I'l'tl•rsmt-members of Un- I hesitate to use the word per- mal issue of the magazine; 3) 1 ion's faculty. Hans Hainebach, I December 3 ~~[gj[g][gjlilJ~Iill~~iiill'llli!l[gjl!lJl!lJiill[gjli!i~lill~ii;. Would the student bociy-whose I of l'nion'~ Modem Lang_uage De- 1 The A.lbany Symphony Orches- ~ill Sh s • ·~~~ ni?~ey supports The Idol-be I purtment helped to. decipher the tra wil present a concert in Me- I aver ervlce :ll. ''!I ling to ;:;upport the wnture? 1 1 ol!L' H.t•brew. wor(\ 111 the notes, moria! Chapel at 8:30 P.M. Tues- · w The first problem wus indeed and Ius <'Ul,tg:raphy was. sent to day. Convocation credit will be k a set·ious one. Tayler Lt>wis, af- i t~le :'\t:;v Lnlon Pre.ss m New granted. Under the baton of Ed- ~ Repairs & Sales on ;: te1·. the fashion of his. times-had I 'I ork ( 1ty to hP set Ill lead type. gar Curtis, wit~ E~gar Rice as ~ill ~ wntten the manuscnpt with a T\ F 1 concertmaster, 1t w1ll present a ~ all makes of quill pen point. There \\'ere sec- : une a 'ac or program of orchestral music as ~ill ~ tion;; uf the mun.useript that w~re: Pressl'd for time, Somers was I its first of two offerings at the I Electric Shavers l!!l extremely difficult to read and, confronted by nearly 200 foot- College this season. The Concert lilJ ~~ his notes were frequently illegi-' notes. Having transcribed them Series is co-sponsored by the Sehe- ~ Phone FR 4 _ 9741 ~ ble (i.e. See Idol vol. No.;~ for a; i11 a sumt:what disarranged order nectadyMuseum with the support ~ill ~ facsimile photograph of Lewis' I (due mainly to their varying legi- of the New York State Council ~ill ii;l notes). Somers assured Olf that bility), he realized that it would on the Arts. ll!l 724% STATE STREET ~ill with patient study of the manu- i take a great deal of time for the December 6 ~ I scl'ipt handwriting and an orcas- Scheneetady Printers to scan the ~ ~ iunal cross reference to other many galleys of small type in Ballad of a S()ldier will be :.JIIDRJIBJ~Qil~i!ll~~I!!J[gj[g@~[g]~~lillfiDlll~~ translations of the dialo&\ue the, .. n!er tu plal.'e them in numerical! :;h~wn in EE 22 at i and 9 !'·~· problem euuld be considerably 1 ut Je r un.tu t!te. lJUg'e proofs. T u I It IS the story of a. YOU!Jg so idler s ameliorated. Somers transcribed 1 meet th1s dtff1culty Somers de- 1 return home to f1x h1s mother's several sample pages during this, dsed a color scheme whereby 1 roof, and his growth into man- plenary pel'iod so as to get an 1 L'ach galley was painted with a 1 hood. The film has won awards idea of the number of manuscript coded color stripe of its own. This i at the San Francisco and Euro- pages that could fit on a page ~eYice----:Lorn out of expe.diency- 1 pean ~estivals .. No standing I uf The Idol. It grew certain that :s, tu Ius knowledge, enttrely un-; room wtll be available. I the task could conceivably be ac-' ique, and was of greut value to 1 . TRAVEL SUGGESTIONS THE AMERICAN EXPRESS Way to See BERMUDA or NASSAU complished in tht> necessarv time 1 thE.' composition department of 1 allottment. · . the Scht>nertady Printt>rs. The, ; efficiency with which the foot- Financial Difficulties 1 notes were handled won the praise The financial difficulty was no' of the New York University l~:ss a problem. In addition to I l'ress. the large size of the publication 1 Aftet· four months of arduous the Theaetetus would requir~! wo1:k the pa~e proofs were given 1 Greek type which the Schenectady 1 a fmal readn~g and to the.m was 1 Printers (the firm that prints' added an a~·ttcle on the d1alogue The Idol) did not stock. The set- by the .Cha1_rman of the Depart- ling of Greek type would force ment of .Phtlosophy, Sven Peter- Olf to seek outside assistance son. R1~hard ~· Wer;dover's which would be certain to repre- cover ~eslgn_-frontl.ce provt~ed an sent a significant increase in the attracttve v1sual u:tro?uctwn to cost of the production. It was unpre~edented p~bltca~wn. . The proposed that the magazine re- Schenectady Prmters bmdary EASTERN AVE. Quick Clean Cleaner WASH DRY 25c 10c 823 EASTERN Ave. Lo!s As $58.50 ;:!k (Plus TransiJortation) SCHENECTADY TRAVEL BUREAU, INC. 328 State Street FR 7-8506 Local Headquarters American Express Co. quest a grant of funds from the \p~t toge~~er\ the first squ~re- college administration How- ' spmed ed1t1on of The Idol smce ...-rr ' ' • ' ' ' ' • ' ' ' \ ' ' ' '' ' ' ' ' ' ,., ' ' ' ' \ \ • ' ' ' ' ' • ' • • • • • • e\ er an interview with· President I the 1930's; the production was Davldson assured the editor that delivered to the campus in time such funds were available. For- fo! its distribution to the gradu- tunately the Student Tax Com- atmg class of 1963 at Commence- mittee agreed to provide those ment Day. funds that would be required 1 Well Received aho\·e and bey.ond the normal cost' 1 Since that time hundreds of 1 of a regu!ar 1s~ue of The Idol- copies have been sent to classi- cn the sttpulatiOn that the Stu- cal· scholars and libraries across dent Council. re~eive a copyright the world. The forthcoming issue on the puhltcat10n. of The Idol includes some of the The keen interest shown by the many congratulatory letters that Student Tax Committee assured were received from such schol- Olf and his staff of at least a ars as Sir Leon Simon, Raymond representative responsiveness, on Klibansky, Rosamond Sprague, the behalf of the student body, nnd Harold Larrabee. to the project. The solution of The publication of a full- these initial difficulties opened length, scholarly work was an the door to a slew of teC'hnical unprecedented effort on the be- problems that few editors of any half of the students of Union college literary magazine confront College and an unusual project in the normal routine of publi- for any college literary quarterly. cation. It is hoped that the warm recep- Olf and Somers, acting under tion received by the Theaetetus the knowledge that Tayler Lewis will serve as a reminder to the was u member of the faculty of studt>nts and administration of New York University at the time Union College of the kind of ac- that he made the translation, tivity that should be foremost in paid a visit to the N.Y. U. Press. the minds of academic institu- Bertha Hatvary, the production tions. manager ·Of this large publica- , The Theaetetus will be distrib- tion office, gave invaluable as- 1 uted to the students and faculty sistance in the problems of foot- I next week, together with the Fall notes and their Greek insertions.issue of The Idol. WYT¥¥TYY¥¥VTTYYT#¥¥fYW¥YTTTVYV¥fYTWYT¥TTYYVWY¥V DIAMANTE'S Enjoy our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNElL GATE ON NOTT ST. OPEN DAILY 'iO TO 3 A.M.- SUNDAYS 5 P.M.-3 A.M. •• 4 .... 4 + + +. + •• ' .......... ++ •• +'A •••••••••• I. A.,'. A. I.~ UNION INN 517 UNION STREET Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian • American food Oivount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking 01 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. Midtown Barber Shop 515 UNION STREET (Next to Union Inn) Specializing in Restyling of Hairdos Each head is given personal care fection. By in large, I am certain that we are not dissatisfied with the Uni<m student body, but neither me we wmplacent. We would like to see men who are more actively motivated toward intellectual life. Friday, November 22, 1963 Election. • • (Continued from Page 1) c:Jmmittees. Morrison explained that this w<mld provide a degree of ~-;tudent opinion which could be pre:;wted to the faculty. It would also provide information Gr w Do you think that there is a suitable atmoSJ)heJ'e on campus for intellectual stimulation? I doubt whether Union is very different in this respect than other colleges. As I read reports, ob- serve other places and hear about colleges and other institutioNs dis- cussing their student body I get the feeling that we are .probably reflecting an attitude which is rather general. Perhaps we should be doing some things that would he of a more positive value to the student body. I myself would very mu(,!h like to see a student center which could add not only to the social, but the intellectual enrichment of the Union college student. The question of fraterni- ties is inevitably raised in relation to this subject, This is a frater- nity college. I can see a great many things concerning fraterni- ties which in my estimation are wrong. On the other hand, it is clear that the fraternities are con- cerned about this problem and I feel that they should do their ut- most to alleviate it. to the student council a.nd the student body before an official announcement was made hy the committee. Morrison also an- nounoed that Fted Maute was in the pt·ocess of cataloguing and binding past student council min- utes into volumes to be put on file in the student government 4 office. Patronize Our Advertisers It was announced that the All College Council will meet on Nov. 25. This is a body made up of President Davidson, Deans Pol- lock and Huntley, the department chairmen, president of Student Council, J)l'esident of the I.F.C., and the class presidents. This body provides an exchange of ideas and discussion between the student leaders and the faculty. D&J AUTO StRVICE · 1372 Union St. BRAKES - TUNE-UP WHEEL AliGNMENT & BALANCE 01 6-9644 RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featurinq: HOME STYLE IT ALlAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week Authentic Cttttf.ftf Cttluh OXFORDS h,Truval@ $400 lUsbt lrom. the campus, this classic ivy style features a Jilew' lang polo.t soft l:oll button. down colla.t: and btC:k loo,P. Sanfoti%ed combed yarn oxford craft doted 'With a taJ?e.ted body. Available in white ana coiots. Get yow:s todaf. WE GLADLY CASH YOUR CHECKS '\ ... ... Joe Sh (43) on Hamilto net1s ini H; an inS] ander j season 2000 nessed 1 contest ' ed a slit most o: quarter1 the Cor son l'ec • 1 ·1· must se · (~' feats. · The ( tainly i 1· tllre of l statisti< i ed 428 I! while t1 yards a ~ 'j\ Dutchrr · ly they they f: : they ce ·• I ' ' of theil ! ation o: ! Terr~ from 1 ' ary Ca ' fans ii I[ serve ~ ... I ~~~~~.; . J ::~.;;, 1 tests, gained Garnet dazzlec eludin~ eleven a field ,r: M ,. 1 • ar: points, from ~ in foul Joe .., . ,, day ii ' connec tempt5 game'! ·the C keeper The score 1 , off 67 touch<l ,. \. i~~~ fourth , Hurlb1 · quartE .• bound: ] l Ag2 lea the neerec pass in shall. thrust tackle . ~ 14-0 point. In · tinent touch< Hamil of 75 but tl 1. plays. (/1 ,. -·cut b[ and tl the l<J two n Mars} 25 ya Dm tinen1 ter fr yard two 1 runni Un • 111 !.- time third

22, 1963 • • • Page 1) explained de a degree could faculty. It information a.nd the an official hy the also an- aute was in and min- Fridely, November 22, 1963 Gridders End Season With Hatnilton Loss Soper Is Chosen Ring Takes Month!lsAthlete Thirty-sixthJ The newly revitalized Block U 8<1riety has awarded John Soper,. Four Union College cross-coun- . junior end from Syracuse, the t1·y t·unneJ'S entered the IC4-A honor of' Athlete of the Month. A meet at New Y 01·k's Van Cort- . two-way performer at right end land Park last Monday as a finale for Coach Maras, John was out- ·to the J'ecent campaign. . standing on defense and hauled Varsity harTiers Gary Morris . in enough passes to place third oF Ballston ·Spa and Dave Ring in total pass receptions and sec- of Sehenectady ran, as did .fresh- . ond in total passing yardage. men NeH Campman of Schenec- 5 be put on government t. Johnson and Johnson deserve a tady and .John Moran of North lot of credit for keeping both ·Andover, Mass. Both groups John and his close runner-up competed in their respective parts B1·emlan Hutchinson on the field.· of the college division. The Gar- Each player deserved the coach's net~s Dave Ring took thirty-sixth nomination to the ballot for their in the grueling competition gl'itty play despite injuries which against .some two hundred' run- might have ke.pt others on the ners .from approximately forty bench. Hutch was an outstand- colleges which sent representa- the All on Nov. made up of Deans Pol- department of Student the I.F.C., ents. This of between the the faculty. St. NE-UP .,.,.... . -- ...... \ tures and craft • I' ing ·defensive back and the Gar- tives. net's leading rusher. Morris Excells DisapaJointing Season Garry Morris, captain of this Overall the harriers completed year's cross-country squad, is a the season with a disappointing . symbol of the new .spirit on Coach one win and four losses. How-· R..AL ~~ Joe Stenns follows AI Hrdlicka (34) and Brendan Hutchinson (43) on a quarterback rollout run for a substantial gain early in the Hamilton contest. The same .play eVE'ntually accounted for the Gar- net~s initial TD. Ketz' squad. His detet·mination ever, the Dutchmen will maintain · gained him the first place posi~ their current top runners despite tion among the Union ·harriers graduation, and the advance of twice toward the end of the sea- the frosh should provide an ex~ son. Next season, with a major- cellent nucleus for Coach Wi!'fred ity of the team returning, Gary H. Ketz to work with next sea- ·I s d c should lead this sport back even. son. . ntra- . qu·a ' om·peti• tt• on further from the depths of recent By Dave Phemister years. Hamilton's Co:ntinentals thwarted the upset efforts of Co-captain elect Derry Caye The pool in Alumni Gymnasium. For Swt·mmers Tomorro · · d U · C 11 1 1 t S t d Al J'epl·esented the soccer squad on is open to Faculty, Staff, and · · · . W an mspue · mon o ege e even as a ur ay on ex- , ander field by amassing 20 points in the last quarter of this the ballot. The hustling halfback their families every Sunday from. Tomorrow the Union College swim ·team w1'll d1'vi'de was all over the field for Coach 2 00 r: 00 p l\f season's final game to gain a 42-23 victory. Beaudry's team this fall. : -.>: •• • . into it' varsity and freshman groups for an intra-squad Wb~~~woo ~--------------~-------------------~ ~ci.·~~~.whl~w~~~~~~~~re~u 2000 Fall Weekend fans wit- Saturday practice session, IS but one of the several innova- nessed the season's most thrilling . tions planned by coach Robert Beaudry this year. Beaudr:y contest in which Union maintain- · hopes that practices with actual meet conditions will help ed a slim point margin throughout · develop an early. competit_ive spirit, as well as providing most of the game's first th1·ee · valuable compebt1ve experience. quarters. The encounter leaves The f.reshman squad is one ofi-------------- the Continentals with a 7-1 sea- the largest ever seen at Union.\ celent times in their events on son 1·ecord, while the Dutchmen TheJ: will h~ve plenty of depth, I Saturday. Boles, always taken must settle with two wins and six parti.cularly m freestyle, but they lightly as a distance freestylet' in f~• ! eats. d fi l 1 k th d e mte y ac e stan out per- the past, did remarkably well, The Garnet 19 point deficit cer- tainly is not indicative of the na- • 1· ture of the game, nor are other statistics. The Continentals gain- ed 428 yards and 20 first downs, while the Dutchmen picked up 291 yards and 13 first downs. But the Dutchmen wanted victory so bad- ly they could taste it, and although formers necessa1·y _ to defeat t~l- beating everyone but Schauel'. ented and expenenced varstty Backstrokers Siers and Garriso.n competitors. To ovet•come this in- did not fair too well and will ·.equality Coach Beaudry has added have to show plenty df spark to several extra events, including keep Mogul from taking a place tyro relays, to t~e for~at: Var~ in the 200 yd. backstroke. Judg- stty members wtll he ltmtted to ing from the performances of the · one relay and two individual other varsity swimmers, they event~ to further decrease their I should have little trouble in han- they failed to gain the laurels, they certainly earned the respect •t 'of their opponents and the admir- ation of their fans. Terry Dutton, who returned from his recuperation stint to ... I serve as the Dutchmen's Honor- ary Captain, joined Garnet sports fans in witnessing three excep- tional performances by Brendan effectlv!\ness. . . 1 ding the frosh a solid thrashing. Leadmg the ~rosh m thell' quest Coach Beaudry seemed pleased for an upset Will be .Jim Mogul, a I with the overall result of the time talented backstroker and individ- trials and expects the team to ual me~ley man. Jim Hilliard, take ~hape rapidly now. Just two Dave M11ler and Van Hubbard can weeks remain before the Eastern ~e expected to turn in good indiv-, Relay meet at Rutgers. The tight 1dual. performances for the frosh. strings of the college athletic Joe Stevens. AI Hrdlicka receives a handoff from quartet'back Joe Stevens, but, as might be expected from the ., I . Hutchinson, Art Marshall, and Hutchinson Is Dazzling menadug array of Hamilton defenders, goes for no gain. AI averaged three yards pl'r carry in thirty· three attempts this season, scored two touchdowns and kicked for two extra points. Th~s week e~ch mem.be1• of the budget do not permit a large re:p- combmed yars1ty-freshm:;m team resentation and Beaudry is faced' swa~ aga1_nst the clock m a 300 with the problem of selecting his yd, ttme tnal. Coach Beaudry had seven most important men. At set a goa,I for each in?ividual the time of this writing he was b~sed on h1s performance m prac- planning to take a team strong in tlces thus f~r. Letterm.en. John individual medley, backstroke and .Boles and B11! Schauer md1cated freestyle but his final decision that they are ready to turn in ex- will be 1~ade next week. +tTtfffift+tf+tVtfTffiffifTf~TYVfYtffTfTT¥TT Despite multiple bruises and \ ' sprains suffered in earlier con~ tests, Hutchinson consistently gained crucial yardage for the Garnet, scored a touchdown, and dazzled everyone in attendance by eluding the entire Continental eleven in a 54 yard run to set up a field goal by Marshall. Marshall also kicked two extra points, scored on a 59 yard pass from Tom Hitchcock, and pulled in four other passes for 25 yards. Joe Stevens had an excellent \' . · day in the passing department, connecting on nine of eleven at~ tempts; he accounted for the game's initial score by crossing · the Continental goal line on a keeper play. . The Dutchmen set up Steven's score by moving the opening kick- \' 1· , off 67. yards in eight plays. The touchdown was garnished with a one pointer oft' Art Marshall's toe. Hamilton returned the kickoff from its own 27 to the Garnet 11 .- P. only to be foiled on a crucial fourth down play by end Marc Hurlbut, who r1:1.n Continental quarterback Don Burns out of .• bounds. Dutchmen Score Again Again the Garnet moved the leather to paydirt. Stevens engi- , neered the 14 play-79 yard drive, \' ·passing to Hutchinson and Mar- shall. Hutchinson capped the thrust on a one yard plunge oft' Marshall with a 41 yard scoring strike. In the final seconds of the per- iod the Garnet fumbled on their own nine yard line, losing posses- sion of the pigskin. But Art Mar- shall pulled in an errant Contin- ental pass to delay another Ham- ilton score. The Dutchmen, however, were unable to pick up necessary first downs and were forced to punt, giving their opponents the ball on the home 40. In seven plays Ham-· ilton was in the lead for keeps, with Bratter responsible for a five yard touchdown sprint. W~th 7:35 left on the clock, the Hamilton team increased its lead when Adams pulled in a 51 yard touchdown pass from Burns. Sev.,. en play~ later the same combina- tion clicked again and Adams crossed the Garnet goal line with a 52 yard Burns pass . Statistics Misleading The real value of the season of varsity football is not to be seen in the won-loss record. Statistics make no comprehensive record ()f experience. Of the 39 men who appeared for early practice, 23 were sophomores. The Dutchmen were essentially a young team, tackle, Marshall made the score RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT 14-0 by kicking the conversion DRUG SUNDRIES NOTIONS NOVELTIES point. . FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES . In the second period, the Con- BAR sUPPLIES tmentals bounced back with two POLYETHELENE touchdowns to even the score. The CELLOPHANE Hamilton eleven scored on drives RENTALS• GLASSWARE DISHES SILVERWARE of 75 tand 67 yards respectively, but the tie game lasted only five plays. At this point Hutchinson J. N.OGEE & SONS, Inc·. cut back and forth across the fie1d and then streaked for· 54 yards-- the longest run of the day. With two minutes remaining in the half, Marshall split the uprights with a 25 yard field goal. Don Burns scored for the Con- tinentals early in the third quar- ter from the five to conclude a 57 yard thrust. Bratter picked up two points on the conversion by Sue<enor to 5. MORRIS & SON Established 1888 WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS PAPER-P~P~R BAGS STATIONERY - SCHOOL SUPPLIES running the ball over again. Phon• FR 4-4429 - 28-34 N. Broadway , 111 !, Union went ahead for the last Schonectad~ 5 1 N. Y. and one to which we can look for improvement next year. With only five of this year's team members graduating, Gar- net sports fans can anticipate see- ing some familiar numbers on the gridiron next season. Prime re- ceivers Marc Hurlbut, Art Mar- (Continued on Page 6) Wally's Diner • Home Made Pies Good Coffee • 325 Erie Blvd. Open Daily 5 A.M. 7 P.M. FIELD;S LIQUOR STORE 38 Erie Blvd. (Across from Train Station) Save On Our Own Private Label Spirits Olde Village We Deliver Free time with 6:55 remaining in the third quarter when Hitchcock hit ·r-----------~ '-----------...J NEED YOUR SHOES REPAIRED? WE MEND SHOES Ideal Shoe Repair 1565 Van Vranken Avenue DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118- 120 JAY STREET + 4 ! A 4 4 4 • 4 I ••• t • A_ f _! A + t A f f t 6 4 f t t • 4 t t 4 6 •• \ This -.ARROW~ is the shirt you should ... and can ... snap up I It's the new Decton oxford Tabber Snap by .ARROW •.• the shirt with the trim good looks of a traditional tab collar without the fuss and fumble of a collar button. ARROW Decton oxford is a blend of 65% Dacron* polyester and 35% cotton, it's a new oxford that has graduated Cum Laude in the class of wash-and-wear. In short sleeves as illustrated $5.95 •DuPont T.M. for its po!vester f!.ber ~ 1; ~ ~ .. 1 ; i •

6 Friday, November 22, 1963 lighting ~ystem, well-equipped ·1 M h reached the point where he could to prevail - Bacon who desired dressing rooms, a separate box ·. urh · 1'\1 no longer redeem himself. to get MacWhorter's license to office, a direction room, and the .1::' '..?' • • • Delia, however, was in a per- preach repealed and censored ot· like. As soon as evet•ything is in . plexing position as he would himHelf who desired to hush up 1 Suite Style Proposed For Wesleyan Dor111s working ordPt', the Nott Memorial (Contmued from Page l) neither pr·opose or .leave her alone. the whole affair for good. After TheatrP is expected to be an ex- . Oll Hubst:tntiated by his own testi- Several times during the next few several unsuccessful attempts to PresidE: l'el!ent home for the Mountebanks. mony. Murphy p~inted out that months they broke off their asso- bring the matter to a vote, Ma~- , announce Tickets are on sale between 1 . th<> whole . affair was so quiet':d ciation, only to resume it shortly Whorter was finally fou.nd inno- ·, Doct0r ' and 9 P.M. at the Nott Memorial down that 1t was not made pubhc thereafter. The most notable of cent, only being mildly admon- · Dean of The following article is a rt-- $>-----· · · rint from tht- Wesleya11 Argus: Dybbuk tickt't office. Every student is en- until a few y~ars ago when the their being together occurred in ished for his actions, by a vote of College, titled to one ticket for himself for Yale commumty became aware Brattleborough, Vermont. For ten 12 to 11. ' as the n free and a ticket for his date for of it. . weeks they were so close that According to Murphy, after the'! lege. T Tentative plans for the proposed Lawn Avenue dor- mitories have been released by Howard B. Matthews, treasurer. $1.00. All others must pay $1.50. The story that MUI·phy gave IS: Han·iet Beecher Stowe was to hearing Taylor did everything he · made at (Continued from Page 1) Tickets must be obtuined befot·e ApJiealed to Ladies rlaim at the upcoming hearing could to prevent Mac Whorter's meeting , • • • , 11 • 1 .. mgement was \not a luxury the performance, as they are al- Alexander MacWhorter upon that she never saw a more pas- name from getting into the offi- Associati but a necessity. lt is a theatre in n;ost sold out ah,eady for . to- his g.mduation proved to be a sionate couple. Soon after, they cial hearing. He was so '---- r~a<.>h dormitory will be divided up into four room suites. No cen- tral corridor ronnerts these suites. .t<:neh suite will be upproacha'ble by outside entrances or dil·ectly from a central stairway sepamt- ing each of these suites. which players and public at•e not 1 mght's and Saturday's perform- popular attraction to the young were to break off permanently. ful that it t•ernained secret for separated by vast distances or I ances. . ladies of New. Haven. Of these Both the people ·of New Haven over a century. hermetic sets.\ I : admil·ers, Henl'letta Blake was to and Leonard Bacon, Delia's broth- As a result of the whole affair, I V b ll . become the chief one. MacWhor- er, became aroused when her rep- Dalia slowly went mad, eventu- Accuracy Is Goal ..c' OOt 'Q . • • • . ter, however,. was to prove elusive utation began to be slurred, Rev. ally winding up in an insane asy- Much effort has been taken to to her as he displayed no outwa1·d Nathaniel Taylor, who had aided Ium. MacWhorter, although he make these pet~ormunces as .a~- (Continued .from Page 5) j inter·est. in girls at this time. Mur· MacWhorter in becoming a min-· was to marry Henrietta, lived the curate as poss1ble. Mr. Ph1hp shaH and John Soper will again phy pomted out that one could ister and who still regarded him last 30 years of his life in utter Arian, education director of Tern- be pulling in passes from .Joe never have convinced the people highly, hoped the whole affair frustration, \almost as though a pie Israel in Albany, was exten- Stevens and Tom Hitchcock. Bob· of New Haven that he was to be- would be dropped although he moral leopard.\ sively consulted in conjunction DeMichele will ha,·e some more come involved in the greatest se· .supported MacWhorter all along. --------- with this. Arian, who ha~ written sterling and astounding defense. duction scandal that was to hit Neither Delia nor MacWhorter several plays and acted m others Billy Joe Barger a standout on the New Haven area. would talk about the subject, A highway poster suggested ;. Vol. ~ Suites may be set up as four \singles\ or· two sets of double rooms as the oecupants desi.re. Plans call for ea<.>h suite to con- tain a small living room contain- ing a couch and several lounging chairs. Tentative plans also in- dude separate toilet facilities and a refrigerator in each suite. The new dormitories will be di- vided into three clusters. Each of the proposed dusters will be pro- vided with its own commons room. Ea<.>h commons room has been planned to provide social provision fot· between seventy-five and one hundred students. Future plans include separate dining facilities for each cluster to be provided from a common kitchen. Construc- tion will not, however, begin on these facilities in the immediate future. at Albany State, has a large fund the 1962 freshma~ team, plans to Delia Bacon, the other member Leonard Bacon possessed \one last the Chingford, }}ngland, Safety 1 of knowl.edge on the p!·oblems of retum to Union this spring .for of the scandal, was known as one trump\ to redeem his sister's rep- Committee has drawn the fire of ! theatre m the round m general Jact•osse and next fall to add some of the foremost women lecturers utation. He persuaded the minis- several high .officials. The sign ; and this play in particular. Rabbi, much-needed brawn to the Garnet in the country. After unsuccess- terial association to informally depicts a modern Lady Godiva~~· , Newman also assisted in the interior line. Billy Joe is 6-a and fully attempting to start a school look into the matter. When Mac~ a nude girl riding a motor scoot- ---- search !or authe_n~ic . information weighs 225. of her own .~hen only 16, she · Whorter refused, Bacon got the er-with the cautioning words- concernmg Chass1d1m1sm. And it appears that there are turned to wnt!ng. .Alth~~gh she association to formally look into \But always wear a helmet.\ The The ~ountebanks h~ve had s~v- several promising prospects com- demonstrated hteraty ab1hty, her the affairs, forcing him to submit Reverend Harold Goldsack calls era! set:wus problems m prepal'lng ing up from the freshman team pen soon ran dry. It was t~en to investigation. it \disgusting\· and adds-\The·. f~n· tomgh.t's p~t:formance. At t.he which posted an admirable 3 .i that she started her lecturmg Found Innocent slogan seems to suggest that they i trme. of th1s wntmg, theatre c~a1rs record. Backs Jim Ramich, Rich career. During the ensuing hearings, can do what they like provided: due m September, had not arr1ve.d. Clemens Bill Toth Don Sacco and Falls In Love Mac Whorter was proven false on they wear a crash helmet.\ Safe- · ~n Tues~ay .• workmen .were st11l linemen' John Felton, Jack Can- After attending a number of every point. Taylor who had been ty Chief Charles Henderson re- ~n t~e bml~L!lf? atte~ptmg to ~n- non, Howard Gatkowsky, Doug Delia's lectures, he began to fall defending him up to now was now plies-\Let's face it-we are liv-. • WRUC • • • (Continued fvom Page 1) Crowell explained that several difficulties have been encounter- ed this year due to the severing of several transmitting wires leading to West College and Rich- mond. At present this elimin- ates a large portion of the cam- pus from the listening audience but it is hoped that by the week after vacation this condition will be remedied. \Special Shows to be Broadcast\ The \New\ W.R.U.C. will con- tinue its policy of special pro- graming each Sunday. Such fea- tures as \The Knowledge Bowl,\ a program modeled after the \G.E. College Bowl\ with competition between campus groups, will be offered once again this year. All away basketball games will be broadcast throughout the season. According to Crowell, this year's broadcasts should be both sur- prising and entertaining. Jack's Corner We Specialize in -PIZZA- • STEAK AND SAUSAGE SANDWICHES -Orders To Take Out- FR 7-9898 1555 Van Vranken Patronize Our Advertisers Magician Available For Private Affairs A well-known Lower East Side magician, Marcus Bloeh, of 920 I<;. 6th Street, today announced that he is now available for per- formances at parties for all oc- casions, clubs, schools and houses of worship. Mr. Bloch said that he is highly qualified and backed by several years of experience as a magic- ian. He has written many articles for magicians' trade publications published in this country and abroad. \I will gladly give a perform- ance for any organization in need of charitable assistance,\ Mr. Bloch said. He will answer all correspondence addressed to him at 920 E. 6th St., New York 9, N.Y. ¥iS o u u .-rtiJIQJ .., e e'b e a 1~h 1.ts facthtles. Ptoblerns w1th 1 Horan, and Steve Roehm are all in love with her. Not completely faced with the problem who was 1 ing in the age of the nude.\ ' h&'htu~g have also app~are~, cui- expected to add talent and depth casting off Henrietta, MacWhorter mmatmg at Wednesday. s d1ess re- to the Dutchmen team of 1964 . requested a private audience with hearsal when all the lights were Miss Bacon. A date was arranged. temporarily out. In addition to Repeated requests to see her and these were the normal, expected The brothers of Alpha Delta Phi extend acceptances soon followed. As problems of moving from one their apologies to individuals whom might time went by, MacWhorter \be- building to another and the actual have taken offense to ~ecent activities of came moonstruck by a woman 11 production difficulties all produc- any brother. The particular incident that has yea·rs his seniol'.\ Although nev- tions run into. The theatre does, cau•ed some concern was most assuredly er admitting his love for her to however, have definite positive not a reflection of house policy, but rather his friends, he constantly contin- features such as a basically sound a private joke, in poor taste. ued to lower himself until he John LaCost wanted a part in scientific progress He has it at Western Electric John LaCost received his B.S.E.E. from the Uni- versity of Illinois in 1962. One of the factors which influenced him to join Western Electric was the quick manner in which new engineers .become operational. During the short time John has been with us, he has worked in several areas which are vital to the nation's communications complex. And with his future development in mind, John attended one of our Graduate Engineer Training Centers where he studied the front-line Electronic Switching System. 1-le is cu~rently working as a systems equipment engineer on such projects as cross bar switching and .line link pulsing. John's future at Western Electric looks promis· ing indeed. He knows he will be working with revo- lutionary and advanced engineering concepts like electronic switching, thin film circuitry, computer- controlled production lines and microwave sys- tems. He is also aware of the continued opportunity for advanced study through the Company-paid Tuition Refund Plan, as well as through Company training centers. How do you see your future? If you have high personal standards arid the qualifications we are looking for, we should talk. Opportunities for fast· moving careers exist now, not only for electrical, mechanical and industrial engineers, but also for physical science, liberal arts and business majors. For more detailed information, get your copy of the Western Electric Career Opportunities booklet from your Placement Officer. Or write: Western Electric Company, Room 6405, 222 Broadway, New York 38, N. Y. And be sure to arrange for a personal interview when the Bell System recruiting team visits your campus. We.ster 11 £/tctJ-ieMANUFACTURING AND suPPLY UNIT oF THE BELL sYsT/EM ~ AN EQUAL OPPOR:rUNITY EMPLOYER Principal manufacturing locations in 13 cities • Operating centers in many of these same cities plus 36 others throughout the U.S. i;;n!lineerlng Rttsearch Center, Princeton. N.J. • Teletype Corp., Skokie, ln., Little Ro~k, Ark. • Gen. Hq., 195 Broadway, New Yor~ ALL WOOL TWEED ~ Alpoca Pile In Body-Alpoca Collar $45-00 T. He is~ Once a tre~s 1\1 Mr.~ for Tet'l tried to author. India, h• lege anc doing tl their Ov' do try gtateme· , fore sa~ mour w had bee ioned di be \ThE He stat, myself.' \ Many , praised Prescot said of that it i wild fa 'land, or master} was de London fields c excells: ple; he and he , most rr It is f that h< fot·emo: Mr. 1 teres tee ernoon Fee Fe{] The al Rei: nectad; World a speec day, D ::.\Ir. Is eral of World !lis to] zation wol'ld Amo are a consist pointel second ··pies' 1 l'ongt·e 1963. world and B of Fr: Born holm 1 vtin Lt Multet the L'r isters one, tl and Q1 The this s with 1 'tions. UNIO NSF I Uni' $4,000 Scienc David: lege, l The COUl'a~ said t be USE the o memb sional nectac

