1964 ed with costs illness. Law having bo lower ests are All1er- Se- veter- private resident ent suc- every further being blatant Medi- care in now price. in com- on the ago. pay- today, doctor The to rise in the call- of in the s • George Flood Named Football Coach Founded at Union College 1n 1877 Vol. 95 - No. 18 SCHENECTADY, N. Y. MARCH 6, 1964 PRICE 15 CENTS . Union Colleg·e has named George Flood, 34, of Rome as its new head football coach. Flood has coached the Rome Free Academy football team for the past seven years, compiling a 35-15-3 recc)}ld that included two undefeated seasons. Union Athletic Director Wil- fred H. Ketz said that Flood ha.s . agreed to a two year contract as instructor in physical education and head football coach. Springfield Alumnus Rights Group :Spulber Flood is a native of Peekskill and a 1953 graduate of Spring- field (Mass.) College. While at Springfield he was a defensive halfback on the football team and third baseman on the baseball team. Asks SC Aid To Speak After a two-year hitch as a first lieutenant in the Ma1•ine Corps, during which time he coached a service team in Japan, Flood returned to Springfield to study for a Masters' Degree in Edueation, whiel! was awarded in 1956. The positive argument was giv- en by John Beckerman, '66, who originally b1·ought up the propos- al. Beckerman felt that the Coun- cil should take a positive stand on the Civil Rights issue and support the group with funds. Moreover, he does not feel that the Council is in danger of setting a precedent. He does not believe that either the Council or the student body would ever ask sup- port of any group that endan- . gered the status of the school. Victor Fazio, '65, suggested that the Council support a fund raising drive to help defer the cost of the trip. Th~ compromise move seemed acceptable to all those with \'hom this writer spoke, as it gave the group its support while not using any ques- tionable monetary resources. Students Split Student body opinion was split in a quick, non-inclusive poll tak- en this week. Several believed that the Council .should support Beckerman's proposal, while many (Continued on Page 5) IFC Institutes Judicial Board A Judicial Board was institut- ed by the I.F.C. at its meeting last Tuesday, March 3. The pur- pose of the Board will be to sit on all disagreements concerning rushing and other processes of the Fraternity system, as well as to pass on any infringements of college rules by Fraternities or their individual members. The action gives the Board a good deal of power, but only within certain restraining limits. In a letter to the Council, Dean Pollock stated that the Board will be given a two year trial period. At the end of this time, the mer- its of the system will be review- ed, and the college co-aid dis- continue it. The final word in all decisions of the Judicial Board will be subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees. This, it is felt, will greatly curtail the Judicial Board's influence. Fraternity Index Soars The I.F.C. also announced that the all-Fraternity average was higher last term than the all mens' average. Mike Miller, President of the I.F.C., implied that these figUl'es would put a damper on some of the anti-fra- ternity sentiment expressed in re- cent months. \DIZZY\ GILLESPIE By Larry Briskman This year's Jazz Weekend will feature a concert by one of the all-time greats in the jazz field, Dizzy Gillespie. The concert will be held on Saturday evening March 21 at 8:00 P.M. in Mem- orial Chapel. Dizzy Gillespie was born in 1917 in Cheraw, South Carolina, the son of a bricklayer. The youngest of nine children, he is known for his brilliant innova- tions and technical abilities in the realm of jazz. He was among those few who transformed the traditions of American music, but he was careful not to lose sight of the major values it already held. Jubilant Jazzman C!assed as an experimenter along with Thelonim; Monk, the late Charlie Parke1·, Kenny Clarke, and Mary Lou Williams, Dizzy helped create bop. As he puts it, \When I was g'l·owing· up, all I wanted to play was swing, Roy Eldridge was my boy. All I ever did was try to play like him,. but I never quite made it. I'd' get all messed up 'cause I couldn't ~ret it. So I tried something else. That has developed into what be- came known as bop.\ As Milt Hinton puts it, \DiEzy's music was much more exciting than Chu Berry's. It was the begin- ning of a new trend. Dizzy hadn't perfected it yet. There were things he attempted to do that he couldn't. He didn't wholly make everything he tried, but he got to me, and I admired him for what he tried.\ The spirit of Dizzy's work is characteri~d by its unusual emotional freedom, He was an assistant coach in football at Fox Lane High School, Bedford, for one year before as- suming his duties at Rome Free Aeademy. Twice Undefeated During his first season at Rome, his team posted a 3-3-1 record. In 1958 the team won 4, lost 3, and tied 1. For the next three seasons the Academy reign- ed as champions of the Central Oneida League and the Central Interscholastic League on records of 8-0, 5-3, and 8-0. In 1962 the team posted a 3-2-1 record. Last fall it won 4 an<! lost 4. Family From Peekskill GEORGE FLOOD Flood married the former Flor- ence Anna Anderson, a registered nurse and Peekskill native in June 1953. They have five chil- dren, Bobby, 5; David, 3; Karen, 2; and nine-month-old twins, KeY- in and Diane. Three Of Faculty Receive A wards Flood's appointment is effec- tive Sept. 1. Ketz said that he will be assigned other coaching duties at a later date. New Edito.rs Promoted On Concordiensis Staff Classics Series Features Polish Anti-War Drama By Barry Newmann F olkLecture To Feature Alan Lomax By Matthew Katz Alan Lomax, the well known folk song collector and editor, will speak on folk music in the contemporary world before a eon- vocation audience next Tuesday at 8:00 P.M. Mr. Lomax is currently Trus- tee and Director of Artistic Events for the Sterling Forest Folk Song Festival in New York. He is also mapping the folk song families ()f the world as a proj- ect for the Rockefeller Founda- tion. \Kanal which was made in Poland in 1956, has been hailed extensively on both sides of the Iron Curtain. The direction of Andrej Wajda is considered one of the greatest performances of all time, and \Kanal\ a great anti-war work. Although the movie won the Cannes Film Fes- tival, it met with a mixed reac~ 10,0()0 Recordings tion when it was first shown in Alan Lomax: and his father, the United States in 1961. The John Lomax, are the originators movie will be screened tonight in of the Librmy of Congress Ar- EE22 at 7:00 and 9:00 P.M. chive of American Folk Song. Most of the picture takes place From 1933 to 1942 the two folk- in the sewers beneath the War- 'orists added over 10,000 folk saw Ghetto during the abortive song recordings to make the Ar- Warsaw uprising of 1944. A chive the largest .in the world. group of insurgents is ordered to In 1939 the younger Lomax pro- retreat from Nazi tank attacks duced the first five of eighty al- through the city's canals, or sew- bums in the Archive of American er tunnels. In attempting to find Folk Song series. He introduced other means for their movement, Burl lves, Josh White, Woodie they become lost and separated, Guthrie and others to radio and · and slosh around in chest-high record audiences during this time. sewage until they go mad or die. Lomax has also collected and They cannot leave the canals published the first 17 albums of without surrendering, as every a World Library of Folk and opening is barred or booby-trap- Primitive Musie which forms the ped, and even the slightest cough basis of the national archives of by one of them brings a barrage Scotland, England and Italy. . of Nazi grenades. Hell In Sewers Mr. Lomax is also known for his definitive books of folk songs. impatient of limits of any kind, Fledgling Editot·s strike an unusually serious pose for the camera. jubilant in its variety, From left to right standing they are: RO\bert S. Hoffman, Features The concert is being sponsor- Editor; David Q. Volkman, Sports Editor; R.()bert P. Hoffman, News ed by the Union College Civil Editor; Richard Erdoes, Managing Editor. Seated is new Concordy Right Committee and all the pro- Editor-in-Chief Larry Horowitz • \Kana!\ could be considered a He has compiled 12 books in- reflection upon the agony and eluding The Saga of American fate of the soldiers and citizens Folk Song, Folk Songs of North of Warsaw who went through the America, and Mister Jelly Roll terrible ordeal of seeking Iibera- which he wrote on a Guggenheim tion, only to find themselves cap- Fellowship. tives at the end. The way in which the desperate characters Mr. L()max has appeared often die in the sewers seems to sug- on radio and television, and has gest that this is the horrible way made documentary films, ballad ill which Polish freedom died in operas, and a folk musical for ceeds will be donated to the Stu-· ------ dent Non-violent Coordinating Committee (SNCC). The cost of the concert is $2.50 per ticket. IMPORTANT NOTICE By Hemy Rushmeyer Larry Horowitz was elected nold Katz and Arthur Morgen- Editor-in-Chief of the Concordi- stern were named Assistant ensis at a meeting of the Publi- News Editors. The board also cations Board on Monday after- named Rodham Tulloss Editor of There will be a tequired meet- noon, March 3. At the same time, the Idol. ing with Dean Lockwood for all Richard Erdoes was named Man- Horowitz began his t•esponsi- freshmen, on Monday, March 9, aging Editor, Robert P. Hoffman, bilities immediately following the at 12:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel News Editor, David Volkman, election, as outgoing Editor Bar- regarding program of studies for Sports Editor, and Robert S. enson l1anded over the reins. A next year. 1 Hoffman, Featu1•es Editor. Ar- (Continued on Page 5) World War II. Admission of this American and British audiences. intent by the film maker, though, He presented Midnight Special, would have been very bold indeed the first folk series at New York's since the picture was made in Town Hall in 1946 and produced 1956 - the year of the Hungar- Folk Song '59 which appeared at ian Revolution. The theme, as Carnegie Hall. The New York one fighter whispers just before Times called it \the most im- going tnad: \They are in Dante's portant conce1't to take plo.ee in Inferno.\ Carnegie Hall since 'Spirituals The director, Wajda's main in- to Swing' in 1937.\ terest lies in the heroes trapped Mr. Lomax will also sing some (Continued on Page 2) of his favorite songs.

2 The Political Scene: GOP Primary by David Berenson Next Tuesday's Rcpu~l~can prinu~ry ii~ :{e~,· Han;pshire wi~1 bd more notable for the puhllcul l!Uc;;twn:;. tt wt11 lea\e u,nammere._ th f . the light it will throw on who w1H be the Republican pres1 de~~iat 1 nominee As it stands now, the candidate with the most .to lost in the prirdai-y is Barry Goldwater, while that hardy perenmal Richard Nixon appears likeliest to gain the most support. Barry Losing Ground Poor Barry has been losing ground ever since he announcet his candidacy for president. Some of his public ut~erances ha:e. een h th t the best way for the Democratic Nattonal Commtttee to . :u~nd i~s campaign funds would be to replay them. on a coast-to- . c~ast television program. Goldwater is still the darlmg of theFcon- servatives but has lost the support of almost everyoneh.else. r{o~ mmandin lead at the opening of the .f'!ew Ha:nps 1re po ~ 1ca ~a:paign he ghas slipped, in the latest LOUIS Harld'I,S tp~~ ru~hsh~~. in News~eek, to a tie with Rockefeller. We pre 1c a e Wl have slipped farther, to 25%, by next Tuesday. Alan Lomax, folk singer, visits Union this week. Lectures, Concerts An Inside View Friday, March· 6, 1964 The Presidency: 100 Days by Richard Sifton On February 29, President Johnson had been in off.ice for one-, · hundred days. Tn retrog,pert, his an·omplishments during these day:--! seem in some ways remarkable, in no way disappointing. He re.: · sponded swiftly and skillfully to a seYere crisis, restoring and per- haps strengthening the faith of .our allies in our system of govern-' 1 , ment. Many P1·oblems The first one-hundred days were marked by a series of problems, both of small and of great significance, that momentarily caused some people to question his administrative abilities. The Panamanian· and Cypriot crises, France's diplomatic recognition of Red China, · and the disarmamet1t situation dominated Johnson's activities at the international level, while the fight over civil rights and numei·ous financial, military and commercial questions require his attention . domestically. These problems arose suddenly and in rapid succes- sion, particularly during the last days of December and the early part of January. Domestic Success ·' Johnson's success may best be seen in his handling of domestic While Goldwater has been sliding, ~ockefelle,~· has been gai'l}lng Pictured at the beginning of the camp~ugn as a ~?me-wre~ker, he has been able to overcome much of his bad J.?ubhc1ty by his folksr campaign methods. However, he still stands h~tle ch~nce of .captui- ·n the nomination. His divorce and remarn.age Will contm~e to 1 1~ ue him, and he can expect more troubl~ from the R.epubhcan- Five years ago the Union col-~ ot·ganizations also contribute. The aoJinated New York legislature. Added to hts. troubles are the !act lege student was required to at- approved .budget for next year that he seems genuinely hated by ~ost ReJ.?ubhcan partr pro~sswn= tend a .vex·y different. type of s~ows a substantial increase,, and als who will rrrudgingly support h1m only tf.he ~omesWmto td~ ~oh co11vocatron. At that tune there w1th the money the Committee vention with ~ string of ~ecisiv~ primarr v1Ctones. c e pre JC e were weekly talks by the pre::;i- hope::; to insure the quality of will win the New Hampsh1re pnmary, w1th about 33/\ of the vote, I dent,. faculty members, and once next year's speakers rather than but that is hardly a decisive victory. in a while a visiting guest speak- increase the number of convoca- · problems. President Kennedy had not been popular with the business community, regardles of the revised and improved incentives to busi- ness which he brought about through tax reforms. Johnson, how- ever, was warmly received by the business sector as witnessed p~r­ tially by the upswing in the stock market. His announcement of a lower fiscal budget, although it called for the reduction o;f defense contracts, received almost no unfavorable criticism from \congress- men by comparison with the reactions to previous budgets. Even the more controversial wheat deal met J.ittle intense opposition under Johnson's direction, although the original terms of the arrangement, which would have allowed the Soviets to purchase on credit indirectly, had to be revised. p 'd nt? er. The required convocation tions. Margaret For resi e · . . credits were roughly parallel to Perhaps Johnson's most significant domestic achievement is the · new tax bill. He a-ccomplished in three months what the Kennedy The other declared candidates in New Hampshue provide fine the number of weeks in the comic relief. There is Margaret Chase Smith, wh? no~e of the otl~~r school year. There were also no candidates will attack because of a fear of ahenatm~ the entnd regularly scheduled concerts or vomen's vote There is Harold Stassen who afte; bemg defeate Friday night movies. This cultur- for mayor or' Philadelphia evide~tly felt it w~s t1me to stprt the al deficiency produced from both c cle over aO'ain and run for president. There lS Norman .Le age, a students and faculty, and eventu- n~tive New Hampshireman who is another perl?etual .candidfai{. 1 ally the task of scheduling con- Finally there is Marvin Kitman, a man~gmg e~ttor 0 OI,lac e vocations was shifted from the Magazine ~ quarterly of political satire. K1tman V.:lll nft hbe h~ted p1·esident's office to a member on the pr~ferential list, but he has one man on the hs~ 0 t e po en- of the faculty. Experimenting tial delegates who is pledged to him. It seems Mr. Kttman had c?l- with a small budget, a succession lected the necessary one hundred signatures necessary to plac~ huf of faculty members attempted to on the preferential ballot, but someone unfortu,nately lost ~he .hst 0 provide an adequate quantity of signatures. Undaunted, Kitman has been 1!-ctlvely cam~algnmg on cultural events. It was not until the ski slopes Vlith his main battle-cry bemg. that he ts t~e .only three years ago, however, that a truly reactionary Republican in the race, a candtdate whose prmctples 1 formal Lectures and Concerts go back to Lincoln. . . . Committee was given a substan- The most importa1,1t factors in t?e New H.an;pshl!~ prlma~y ah: tial budget. Professor Ullmann of the unannounced candrdates .who wtll .not thtow then A hats d:n ttl' the English department was ap- ring but are constantly testmg the wmd ~or drafts. ccor mg 0 pointed chairman. It was also the Harris poll, if New. Hampsh!~e Repubhca~s {dou~d ~ote. foCab~~ about this time that the Student contender the first cho1ce of 31 ,o of them wou e en'\r f Council began to select students Lodge. However, like Rockefeller, Lodge stands t? rda~ c thncf ~t to help on the Lectures Commit- getting the nomination. His support c!ln be exp aNe J e h!'l tee. that his home state of Massachusets hes ne\:t to ~w .a~kp~ 1 he, Girdner Is Chairman and in an unpopularity contest among Repubhcan pa1ty wm e1s e would probably finish second only to Rockefeller. ~ixon Still Prominent Richard Nixon received 24% support in ~he Har:r:is po~l. This. is ample evidence of the important role he w11l play m th1s electwn · n With the mcreasing proliferation of both announced and ~~~~~~~n~ed candidates, Nixon will increasingly .seem th~ one safe, sure candidate. He stands little chance of defeatmg Pres1den~ Johlf son but he could be guaranteed to wage a s!renuous campa1~n. he gains as much as 15% of the !otal vote !n New ~amp~hu:e by writP-ins we can be quite sure h1s name wlll be qu1te pr?mment duruig the rest of the Republican nomination campaign, particularly if the Republican National Convention goes beyond one or two ballots. The Dark Horse There is one candidate who will not get much more t~a!l 1% of the total vote in New Hampc;hire, yet in this ?bserver's optmon. r'!les as a co-favorite with Nixon for the nominatwn. Governor 'Y1lha:n Scranton of Pennsylvania is at present hardly k~o~vn ot;~tstde h1s home state, but the Time-Life magazines, the unoff1c1al vo1ce of. the king-makers in the Republican party, are currently engaged 1 ~n. a massive publicity effort to build his reputation. I~ the pu~ tctty efforts succeed, he appears to be the obvious Rep~bltcan candtd~te. He is young liberal articulate, and governor of an Important N?Ith- eastern ind~strial state. These qualities would seem to be the td.eal ones for a candidate who had even a ghost of ~ chance of defe~tmg the President. Like Nixon, Scranton's name wlll be very promment at this summer's convention. Pt·ofessor John Girdner is the present chairman of the Commit- tee. He co-ordinates a number of faculty and student advisors. The selec.:tion of lecture speakers is the responsibility of Profess'?r Peterson, and Professor Curt1s and Mr. Robert Wernick help de- cide on the concert programs. The film selection is made by Profes- sor Youman. Improved Offerings This year's progt·am of lectures, concex·ts, and films has been a substantial improvement over past years' offerings. This is in part due to the increased budget. Although only half of the hoped for 16,000 dollars was granted by the college, this year's twenty- four convocations require an ex- penditure of close to 15,000 dol- lars. Various outside organiza- tions have supported the pro- gram by donating funds. The Schenectady Museum co-sponsors four concerts with the college. The Music Department, the Stu- dent Council and other student Positions Open administration had been attempting for two years: a major overhaul of the individual and corporate tax structure which would permit Four student positions are greater economic growth and capital investment. Although Johnson open un next year's Committee. inherited much of the project, he added the section which allows for A student is needed to help plan the immediate reduction in withholding taxes and for the more effici- the itinerary of visiting speakers ent payment of corporate taxes, thereby making the entire bill im- and show them around the cam- mediately effective. pus. Working closely with the An enactment which has more significance for the college com- faculty, he would suggest stu- munity is the billion-dollar aid to education bill. The bill, signed by dents who would be interested in Johnson shortly after he became President, provides loans and grants attending luncheons and infor- to institutions which are in the process of expanding their facilities mal lectures with the visitor. in order to accommodate more students. Colleges which do not in- There is a second opening for a tend to undergo such a program have little to no chance of directly student who would like to assist benefiting from the bill in substantial amounts. in the selection of films. He Diplomatic Victory would have to be present at the Internationally, the President's accomplishments are less ap- showing of the films, and he parent but are not lacking. The Panamanian crisis was l'efen:ed to would be called upon to write the those organizations and agencies which were established by Johnson's explanatory programs. The com- predecessors for the handling of such matters; the United State:; ' mittee is also without a projec- has stood firm in its position but has attempted to reach a swift and tionist for the next year's Friday just settlement. Perhaps the only action which might be seriously night films. The fourth job in- questioned was the withdrawal of an insignificant amount of foreign valves the on-campus publicity. aid to several European countries and .England as a chast~sement The committee is also looking for for the continuation and extension of trade with Cuba; in the light a student who would gather com- of the determination of the United States to rally support for the ments and criticism from the stu- Cuban embargo, such an action seems somewhat triv1a:l. Johnson musical events. Professor Gird- has, however, scored a diplomatic success along a much broader ner is also opposed to abolishing front: the peace campaign which he announced early in January, rr~>clits at this time. involving the voluntary reduction by twenty-five per cent in the pro- False Criticism In the past, criticism by stu- dents has been concerned with the compulsory attendance asso- ciated with the convocation pro- gram. Objections to this requir~ ment prompted a request, subse- quently rejected by President Davidson, to abolish credit for The reasons for the present system are substantial and ob- \'ious, although it is unfortun- ate that they are necessary. N e\·erthelef's, the Lect urcs and Concerts Committee will continue to provide its program as an in- tegral part of the college's edu- cational and cultural program, and hopes to enlist the support and participation of interested students. The Student Council generally makes appointments to the com- mittee but interested students are en~ouraged to see Dr. Girdner for information. duction of atomic weapons, was a propaganda victory for the United States regardless of de Gaulle's recognition of the Peking regime. It is fair to say that Johnson's performance has been admirable, '· if not exceptional. He has llhovm consistent strength, although he · has been sensitive to journalistic criticism as one might expect. He has worked under rather severe circumstances; he has not had the advantages of his own appointed advisors and cabinet members, a . situation which will probably change as he takes fuller control over .· his administration. Perhaps the best explanation of his performance is his long and extensive experience with politics, particularly through his yea1·s in the Senate as one of its most powerful figures. He is accustomed to authority and responsibility and knows how to use them to his best advantage. Particularly significant are his ability and his desire to cooperate with and to work through the Congress. In matters of foreign policy, with which he has had the least exper- ience, he remains open to advice from many sources and attempts to adhere to traditional policies. Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian • Amerit;c;JQ FQod Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PATRONIZE YOUR ADVERTISERS Catnpus Calendar PIZZA Free Parking 01 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. JOHNNY'S MARKET 1514 Carrie St. COLD CUTS, BEER, GROCERIES Open Daily 8 AM • 9:30 PM Sunday 7 - 1 :30 & 5 - 9:30 Located Behind Superior Barber Shop NEED YOUR SHOES REPAIRED? WE MEND SHOES Ideal Shoe Repair 1565 Van Vranken Avenue y t y y y y 'T y y y y y y y Y y Y Y T Y Y t Y Y f f Y Y T 9 Y Y T f f Y 9 Y Y Y V ¥ Y Y f f DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118 - 120 JAY STREET .......................................... March 6-Kanal - EE22 - 7 and 9 p.m. March 8-0ld Chapel Art Exhibition-Neppie Conner-3 to 5 p.m. Community Vesper Service-Dr. Ben Herbster-7:30p.m. March 9-Freshman Class Meeting-Memorial Chapel-12:30 p.m. March 10---\New Dupont Research\-G. R. Seidel-C.L. 201- 11:30 a.m. h Convocation-Alan Lomax - \New duPont Researc - 8:00p.m. March 12-Sigma Xi-\Elementary Particles\-Professor A. H. Fox-E.E. 22-8:30 p.m. VAN CURLER MUSIC SHOP 501 State Street $ RECORDS JAZZ POPS MUSIC Student Discounts CLASSICS RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT DRUG SUNDRIES FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES NOTIONS BAR SUPPLIES POLYETHELENE CELLOPHANE NOVELTIES RENTALS: GLASSWARE DISHES SILVERWARE J. NOGEE & SONS, Inc. Successor to S. MOIIRIS & SON Established 1888 WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS PAPER-PAPER BAGS STATIONERY- SCHOOL SUPPLIES Phone FR 4-4429 - 28-34 N. Broadway Schenectady 5, N. Y. N. J. Comanzo-H. L. Walker 509-511 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 4-7709 tAf444444444AA+A,&+•4AA Down to Louis', let us &o, Let the lager freely flow. EASTERN AVE. Quick Clean Cleaner WASH DRY 25c 10c 835 EASTERN AVE. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere~',. NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 Friday, Men Guest 1 The foil :\Iorrell, whc agreement 1 the use of t. the Mounteb earlier this will underta Someont in a field in superior .. A1 this same I media can a these actol'S by each of· canvas, sho, advantages have died a: The fac that Tele:visi ernment has or accept Go enormous gr less than nil elude the pl versities in 1 and central comes to .A classes. An: degree of fa times as rna Lest it interest in ' that all of many of the expanding 1 Summer Tl throughout ; What tl it bloom wh simple ap.sv images on a seem to be the play aa Play struct1 present his thority has -that it is This engage vide one of popular forn playwright : ence; and 1 one may citE that live boc than in real. All oft for us. No1 answer is C· and an audi tween them image is, il alive; and sc Fort This artie] Williams Ret reviews asp a Negro stu fmm Union last year. \On Feb. from Greem sat in at a ·r a chain reac tivities in H words Carl J dent frem L gan a talk ( er in the S the Student With spon ing through· came appar• of coordinat: needed. The was a meeti in the fall the founding violent Coo (SNCC). Since its dinating a branched ou activity. \S two progra \First there istration, an of the dire started by t Carolina A ,,,,,,,, STUDJ • Collec • Colle~ STUDE GR LC Books N'ow Sufl Schen• Bu 32 SCHI PHC Agents For S.S. Compa1 Cc • •••• ,.+

6, 1964 Sifton for one.·. these day:-.; g. He re.: and per- of govern- caused . China, at the numei'OU!i attention . succes- the early domestic business to busi- how- essed p;lr- of a defense ·congress- Even the under indirectly, is the · Kennedy overhaul permit Johnson allows for effici- .bill im- com- signed by grants facilities not in- directly less ap- efel'l'ed to Johnson's State:; swift and seriously of foreign the light for the Johnson broader January,. the pro- United he He had the embers, a ntrol over · rformance ' through He is to use ! ability i Congress. exper- attempto ant St. ;;! 't, ·\ Friday, March 6, 1964 Guest Column: Living Theater by Sam Morrell The following is the first in a series of guest articles. l\lr. Sam :\lor.rell, who initiates this new prog1·am, has recently worked out an agreement with the Union College administration that aliows him the use of the Nott Memorial Theater when it is not being used by the Mountebanks. His first production, Royal Gambit, which appeared 1 ,~:[\::::::::t.'::::::::::::;:i::::::': earlier this winter, m«.>t with considerable success. This summer he 1 ! will undertake his second production. · WHY THEATRE? Someone has said that Man is inordinately proud of his prowess in a field in which any jackass is his equal and any jackrabbit his ·'· superior. At first glance it might seem that Theatre is in somewhat this same position vis-a-vis Cinema and Television. These latter media can afford more distinguished actors, edit out any mistakes these actorl:f might make (indeed, use only the finest performance by each of the actors), use authentic 9<!enery instead of paint and canvas, show to millions rather than hundreds. at one time-the advantages are endless. By rights, the Theatre should long since have died a painless death. Theatre Has Grown The fact is, however, that Cinema attendance has declined and that Television programming has been so bad that the Federal Gov- ernment has found it necessary to warn the broadcasters to improve or accept Government regulation. The Theater has, meanwhile, shown enormous growth. Within fifteen miles of the Union Campus are no less than nine Community Theatre organizations. These do not in- The Glee Club rehearsing for the Purcell concert. Glee Club Presents Opera by Purcell clude the play-producing sections of each of the colleges or uni- Dido and Aeneas, an opera by 1 and was able to achim·e the plain- versities in the area, nor the drama clubs of the various high schools Henry Purcell, was presented in 1 tive, moving quality which is so and central schools of the district. A professional teacher of acting Memorial Chapel last Saturday 1 effective in such sections as her comes to Albany from New York each week to conduct acting e:'eni?g. Music by Purcell, who I !llournful aria \When I Ut;J laid classes. Any :person who has the ability to direct a play with any d1ed m 1695 and was perhaps the m earth.\ The gentleman smging degree of facility finds himself in the position of turning down three last truly important English com-~ the pa1t of Aeneas was, on the times as many oppm·tunities as he can accept. poser before the twentieth cen- other hand. unspeakably bad. Lest it be thought that this merely betokens a quickening of tury, is heard only too seldom in I The remaining soloists and the interest in the performing side of the theatre, it should be noted local pedormances. 1 orchestra (which was ostensibly that all of these organizations attract good-sized audiences, that Excellent Choral Presentation ; composed of members of the lin- many of them own their own theatres and that the organizations are We must thank the combined· ion-Skidmore student orchestra expanding rather than contracting. Additionally, at least seven Union College and Skidmore Col-I but which actually contained only Summer Theaters present professional companies in this area lege Glee Clubs, the small orches- four or five students, the remain- throughout the summer months. tral ensemble, and the group of der being local profesisonals) got Several Attractions selected soloists merely for offer- through their parts, not exactly What then is the attraction of legitimate theatre that has made ing us the opportunity to hear a flawlessly, but at least with a it bloom where it supposedly had no right to? One may adopt the live concert version of Dido and minimum of ungraceful measures. simple ap.swer that seeing people is mo.re arresting than seeing Aeneas. That these performers The entire performance might images on a screen, but this is, at best, a half-answer. There would >vent further, and presented a be characterized along these lines. seem to be more to be gained from investigating the structure of concert considerably above the Dido al)d Aeneas is a good work the play aa opposed to the various structures used by other media. the usual level of Schenectady to be able to listen to, and it must Play structu 1 ·e is extremely fot·mal, calling on the playwright to singing (i.e. Octavo Singers, certainly be fun to perform. Sat- present his material in as compact a manner as possible. One au- Thursday Musical Club) rlesPrves urday night's concert wa.s compe- thority has said that in a play, only the crises of a story are given added recognition. tent, and Vel'Y inte\resting, but -that it is up to the actors and the audience to provide the rest. There is no question but that when one is performing an opera Th' t f th di · h h d the Union College Glee Club has, it is not sufficient to have a fine lS engagemen o e au ence Wlt t e actol·s oes, indeed, pro- \'I'thi'n an amazingly short period chorus if the orchesti'a and the vide one of the main attractions of live theater. Yet there are \ popular forms of theater (Brecht's plays, for example) ln which the of time, beeome a well-trained, soloists can not meet the level of playwright strives purposely to disengage the players and the audi- versatile choral ensemble. Since the chorus. We only ask for a ence; and these plays, too, have found their proponents. Again, the Skidmore group also proved little more care in putting to- one may cite a sort of theatre vei·sion of Newton's Gravitational Law capable of producing a generally gether the pieces of music so that that live bodies attract live bodies; but this, too, is truer in metaphor accurate and beautiful sound, we a consistently high level of sing- than in reality. could hardly ask for anything ing and playing might be attained. Stage Is Alive more than just that tiny amount Hugh Allen Wilson provided All of these things contribute to the attraction that theatre has of polish and coordination which neat harpsichord continuo and for us. None of them gives us a final answer. Perhaps the final seemed Wl,cking in the direction. Ft·ancis Carver was responsible answer is contained in the thought that while actors are on stage and the resultant execution. for the direction. and an audience watches them the possibilities of relationships be- Story of a Trojan Princt> Paul Living-ston tween them are infinite, while the relationship of viewer to screen The Purcell opera is based upon image is, in most instances, foreordained. In short, the stage is Virgil's stol'Y of the Trojan prince, alive; and so are we. Aeneas, whose ships are Wl'ecked \Tesht·~ P~o·~ - ----- U{>On the shores of Carthage. ~ ~ va.+ 1 , '.1 Aeneas is received by Dido, Queen Former Student Speaks of Carthage, who breaks her oath Here Sun ~-- \' of fidelity to her head husband '\\J and falls in love with Aeneas. R bb' J This article, reprinted from The I Johnson explained that he had When at the bidding of Mercury, a 1 acob Rabinow-itz, a Williams Record of February 19th, worked on both types of proJ'ects he sal?ls for Italy, she kills her- member of the faculty at Stern • C College for Women and the Jew- •·evJews a speech by arl Johnson, in Jackson and Hattiesburg, Miss., self. Purcell elaborates all sor~s ish Studies Program of Yeshiva a ~egro student who transferred last summer as a SNCC field sec- of magical overtones upon this College, will speak in Union Col- from Union to Lincoln University retary, where he witnessed first- story and makes the chorus as- 1 M . 1 h last year. hand the legal and extra-legal ef- sume' a number of different roles ege emona C ape! at 7:30 \On Feb. 1, 1960, four students forts of the South to resl·st 1'nte- f E 1' h '1 t k' g P.M. Sunday, March 15. - rom ng lS sal ors a m Title of his talk will be \Ju- from Greensboro, North Cai:•olina, grat1'on. \ b y short lea\e of (the) · a ooz • daism and the Sciences.\ His lee- sat in at a -restaurant and started He described in detail the way nymphs on the shore\ to witches t . b a chain reaction of civil rights ac- in which Negroes are kept from in a \deep vaulted cell,\ thus sup- · ure ls eing sponsored by Un- tivities in the South.'' With these the polls by a misuse of the ap- t• th k nd providing ion College and the Schenectady por mg e wor a synag·ogues, Beth Israel, Agudat words Carl Johnson, exchange stu- plication form of registering vot- it flavour. 1 dent from Lincoln University, be- ers. \Negroes are expected to me- Less Outstanding Solos and Ac lim, and Temple Gates of gan a talk on \The SNCC Work- morize complex articles of the Orchestration Heaven. There will be a discus- er in the South\ last Friday in 285-part Mississippi constitution, Yet operas are composed of lli<ln p~riod following his talk. the Student Union. and then to interpret the section more than choruses; the arias, The public is invited to attend. With spontaneous sit-ins erupt- to the satisfaction of the regis- recitatives, and symphonic inter- There is no charge. 3 Report From Abroad: On Zurich by Steven Isser Switzerland is made up of German, Fi·ench ami Italian speaking sections each of which is characteristically different. AU that fol- lows is based upon Zurich (in the German speaking part) and its inhabitants. Spotless City One of the first things an American, or better this American, noticed in Zurich is its cleanliness. It is an absolutely spotless city. Little trash baskets are everywhere and contrary to the situation in the U. S., they are used. There are no \no Jitterbugging\ signs be- cause they are simply not necessary. In faet, one of the hest means of identifying a foreigner here is if he throws his waste paper in the gutter instead of in the trash baskl't. The Zurich housewife is not outdone by the pedestrians; most households are cleaned twice a day. It would defy the FBI to find dust in such a home. The Swiss carry this desil'e for neatness and orderliness over into just about every other phase of life with the result that the Swiss are absolutely notorious for their bureaucracy. In their desire for having everything possible down on paper and everything in its proper place, they have made themselves a terribly complicated administrative system, especially in government offices and publicly administrated institutions, that one could truly say, \They're so 'over- efficient,' they're inefficient.' \ I completed a job for the Swiss equivalent of the City Department of Publi-c Works in the middle of last October and I have now only faint hopes of being paid sometime after January. Picturesque City Zurich, the city is one of the most picturesque in Europe. The Limmat River (which is also clean) flows out of the large and beauti- ful Lake of Zurkh at the southern tip of the city, and runs through the center of town. The old parts of the city, with narr·ow passage- ways and winding cobblestone streets, are hundreds of years old and have the look and feel of history about them. The other side of the river is lined with chic, up to date shops and restaurants. The only difference between it and an American downtown is that the buildings are smaller. Zurich is built on hills and on either side of the Limmat the city rises up above you like a staircase. On any clear day to the east, west, south, or north are the Alps, a majestic sight seen towering over the Zurich skyline. Swiss Cuisine Swiss cuisine as one might naively expect is a combination of German, French, and Italian cooking and quite a tasty affair. Al- though you won't find a hamburger or milkshake (unles you search very hard), you will find the Swiss counterpart of the American hot dog (called Cervelat and pronounced Serveelah) and also Bratwurst (a white sausage). ](ase Fondue and Raclette (cheese dishes) also make delicious meals. No one would think of drinking wate1' with a meal, so beer and wine are used instead, a much tastier custom. Even for very prosperous Zurich, however, meat isn't eaten as much as back home; although you can still get a good steak in a restau- l'ant for $1.50. Zurich Culture and Night Life Culturally, Zurich, understandably enough, beats Schenectady; it has a playhouse, opera house, concert hall, and sports arena, all with usually very fine offerings, while the. movie houses show the same type of films as in the U. S.: almost all American films and a few \foreign\ ones. The Niederdorf is the night life section of town. Here you can attempt to drink beer served in full liter mugs and sing rousing German songs in the Munich manner in one bar, and hear modern jazz in another. Every type of night life is available. Travelled Europeans always laugh when you tell them you're going to Zurich. \Zurich they say, \is the place where evel'ything closes up at mid- night.'' There has been a 12:00 curfew in the city for sL\ years now and it allows, in fact, no bar, restatJrant, or other public establish- ment to remain open after midnight. It ·was established through the influence of a group called the Frauenvet·ein (Women's Union) and the joke with the ounce of truth is always kicked around that it is the wives of the city officials rather than the city officials them- selves who run Zlll'ich . International Abode The much publicized influx of Italians into the prosperous parts of Europe (German and Switzerland mostly) looking for work has found a large ~um~r of It!l-Iians in Zurich. There are at p1·esent over 10,000 Italians m the ctty of 450,000. Trams and many public places are marked with signs in both German and Italian and of c~urse in Enlflish for the .tourists. The Swiss are not ovel\ly pleased Wlth the Italians. They htter the streets and don't live that impec- cably clean and ordered life the Swiss consider essential. This is however, not to s~y that the Swiss al'e an intolerant people, ' Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWLING LANES .- Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES ing throughout the South, it be- trar.\ As the registrar is never ludes are equally important. This, Rabbi Rabinowitz received his came apparent that some means satisfied with the Negroe's interp- in terms of Saturday's pe1form- bachelor's degree from Yeshiva of coordinating the activities was retation Johnson continued- few ance, is an unfortunate fact. in 1946 and was ordained in 1948. needed. Th~ result, Johnson said, Negroe; are registered to v~te. That an entire opera is only as He has a master's degree from ~as a meetmg of camp!ls leaders Once a Negro goes to register, good as each of its parts is es- the Polytechnic Institute of m the fa!l of 1960 whiCh led to his name is published in the local pecially noticeable in Purcell's B1·ooklyn and is completing re- t~e foundmg of th.e Student ~on- paper and he becomes subject to score for what he has written is, quirements toward his Ph.D. He VIolent Coordmatmg Comm1ttee loss of job and home. The 1 ·e are in effect, a miniature opera, com- is a member of the American (~00). ~~~~~*~~cr~~~·~~~~fu~~C0h~e~m~k~a~l~S~o~c~ie~t~y~a~n~d~S~~~m~a~X~i~.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . Since its inception as a coor- burning parties and shotgun blasts wan 1 .tdh thhl~s I 0 tawlnianuno 1 .qpueerlayticEnfogil' 1 plslS 1 :;:::. T • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • I' · dmating agency, SNCC has following the publication of the brap~hed out into other area.s of Negroes' names. \The result,\ ideas. The overtu1·e and aome of ONE DAY SERVICE act1v1ty. \SNCC has essentJaVy Johnson said, \is that but .6 per the choral rhythms are in the two programs,\ Johnson sa1d. cent of the eligible Negroes in French style, the recitatives are \First there is work in voter reg- Mississippi are registered to a fresh moulding of Italian and istration, and then a contin~ance vote.'' French operatic recitative styles of the direct action techmques --------- into an English medium, and some started by the students at North Miami University's faculty has of the choruses (\Come away, ~el- Carolina A & T.\ indorsed \in principle\ a switch low sailors,\ \With droopmg to a trimester calendar, with the wings\) are particularly English. STUDENT TRAVEL • College Tours • College Study Programs said September 1965 will be a Of the soloists, only two were · UNION INN 517 UNION STREET STUDENT & FACULTY GROUP TOURS Arranged at LOWEST PRICES understanding that when or Purcel took these varied forms whether it can be placed in effect and polished them into a work ~ remains an administrative de- which takes only an hour to per- cision. President John D. Millett form. target date for starting the new 1 outstanding. Ruth Lakeway as calendar. Dido sang clearly and lyricall~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;;~~~~~~~~~~~ Book& Now open for Easter and Summer Vacations Schenectady Travel Bureau, Inc. Est. 1930 328 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. PHONE FR 7-8506 Agents For All Leading Airllne&- S.S. Companies - Railroads and Car Rental Cos. •••••••••••••••••••••• RECORDS OF COMEDY -JAZZ - CLASSICAL - FOLK AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS TAPES AND RECORDS FOR RENTAL ON CLUB PLAN APEX MUSIC KORNER State St. at Corner of Broadway Phone FR 7-1112 RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featurinq: HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & La~ge Parties Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week CAMPUS CLEANERS All Work Done on Premises PICKUP AND DEliVERY 527 Noll St., Schenectady, N. Y. Opp. Union College Phone EX 3-5472 IIW'QF& i21W'7 lll U ~--~· .... _.,._ , FRANK FERRARO Wholesale and Retail fruits and Produce - Fresh Daily - Twice Daily on Campus 1231 CRANE STREET Schenectady, N. Y. Dl 6-1763 ..,,

4 <lrnurnr Published Fridays during the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na- tional Advertising Representative: National Advertising Service. Inc •• College Publishers Representative, 420 1\ladtson Ave., N. Y. C. Editorial Office. Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, Sche- nectady Printing Company, 502 Jlt·oadway. Enterel in the Sche- nPctady Post Office as Second Class ~lait Matter. Subscription 15c a eopy: $3 a year deltvered anywhere in the L'ntted States. SE:XIOR BOARD LARRY HOHOWITZ ·u:.. . ..... 346-9S!lj, E<litor•in-Chipf !\'~~:-;::; Lg FLORE 'UL ......... 346-9S!15. HuinE>\s ~Ial1agPr HI CHARD !<:ROO~~::; • 6fi .................. 346-9S~U. ~lanaging !oCditor HOB!cHT P. HOI<'l•':.\!A:S • 0 0................................... . .............. :-.:ews Editor IJA Vll> \'OLIC.\tA:S '00............................................... .. .. ............ .H!>orts Editor HOIH~HT S. HOI~Fi\IA:S '05 .................................................................. FE>ature JO:ditor Rl<'HARD tlli•'TO:S '06............................... .. . ............ ('ontr.ihU\ting Editor WILI,IA:.\1 T. Wl:S:SE '34. ................. A<IYiser JI:NIOR BOARD I .. a rry l·~isenhPrg 'fi 4 . . ............................ . .... :'vlnkP~rv g(litor PhotograLJhY l~ditor 1-~Xl'han~w Editur .\ ~si Hta nt :'\t-WN J<Jditor ... As~istant :\ews Editor ..... A ssoc.ia te ::\ews- Editor As:'loeiate News Editor .\.~~Hwia tP !\ews Editor A:-Hdstant Business :\'lanager !lark Strotn '65 .......................................................... . Willlam :Saufftu• '66 ................................ .. Arthur )tlorgt:n~t~o\rn 'G6 ............................ . Arnold Katz '06 .......... .. Mark Kasowitz '60 ................................... . Glen Holzham•r '60 ............................ . 1-lt>'nry Hushmt.•,YPt' '66 .. 1larlt Obensinger '65 ................. . Rkhard Resch '66 ............ . Mtke Spodalt '6 0 .. .. Fred Dill '6L ..... . Robert Klein '66 ... . Jeremy Jn>' Pant '64.. . ... A::~:-1iHtttnt But-JineRs ::\lanager ..... Assistant Sports Editor .. ......... ...... . Cartoonist Hub:::rriptlon :\IanagP.r Proof Reader Absentee Landlords \Perhaps the most controversial question of all bas to do with the role of th«:\ trustees in educational policy. De- spite the fears of professors, the trustees of our best insti- tutions do not wish to take charge of the curriculum. They have no doubt that primary responsibility for the educa- tional program lies with the faculty. But the board can- not act wisely on major questions affecting the college or university if it is not well grounded in the educational aims and program of the institution. Therefore it really has no choice but to inform itse-lf fully. Most boards are not do· ing so.\ From \The Role of thl' College and University Truste~.>\ put out by the Carnegie Foundathm. It is unfortunate that Union College persists in main- taining a staunchly conservative outlook in a time when liberal trends in education are truly paving the way for the future. The low morale on the campus is a direct result of this outlook. Mutterings of discontent are to be expected on any college campus, but the problem at Union is more acute than elsewhere, encompassing the faculty as well as students. It is hard to pinpoint the blame for this condition. Ordinarily the cause for low morale in any institution can be traced to the President. At Union however one can also look beyond the president to the trustees. We have no doubt that the Board of Trustees are well meaning men. But the fact is that they are extremely busy men who of necessity cannot keep closely in touch with campus life. The view they have of it is out of date and thus the regulations that they impose (with regard to social rules for example) are of another era. Sooner or later they will realize that their goals, and the goals of the students, faculty and campus administra- tion are one and the same. Why not then, let the academic community have a freer reign to shape its own society? The condition of student suspicion and belittlement of the trustees is not a healthy one, but there is a germ of truth in it. Never having seen the trustees, most of the students form opinions about them based on hear-say and campus rumors. We have the feeling that there is a similar distrust of the academic community on the part of the trustees. Fortunately this situation can be remedied. Let the Board meet with campus leaders to discuss the various campus problems. To their mutual surprise they might find each other human. A Failure? The experimental calendar program that has been in existence at Smith College for the past three years has proved a failure and the school will modify it for next year. The present system has the first semester ending before Christmas and gives the students a winter term. in which they may either take courses for no credits or take a va- cation from school. Most of the girls took a vacation and so the faculty abolished the program. We would like to point out that Smith College is not disgraced. They tried an experiment and failed. They are not about to disappear from the educational scene - more probably they will soon come out with a new experimental program. It may work and it may not, but they will try. R. S. V. P. The Concordiensis is anxiously awaiting an official reply to Mr. Le Flore's letter which appeared in the last issue. We trust it will be forthcoming shortly. .,..- - ..,.. .. --- .----- ··-· Q~ uf CAN SE~ l~AI HE'~ A (stff~O STVDE.f\.J T, Pf?() re ssot2.. , eur o\N a.r v o u r -H' N t \oo 1 , 0U6H T 10 fl(~C.lSf. t\ Srr Of= toNT ~ot.? Letters to the Editor To the Editor of Concordiensis: There have been several ques- tions in the minds of many of the members of the student body which relate to the Student Coun- cil's proposed curriculum evalu- ation. The purpose of this letter is to answer some of these ques- tions as well as to clarify the aims and general objectives of the prop·am, which, until now, have only been stated tentatively. 'l'he most frequently asked question is \Why is the Student Council at- tempting a curriculum evaluation ? Would not other organizations, sponsored by the college faculty or administration, be better qual- ified to make such an evalua- tion?\ It is generally thought that the present time is an excel- lent one for curriculum evalua- tion at Union for two main rea- sons. First, there is some ques- tion in the minds of various fac- ulty members and students about the 1·easoning behind the struc- tural aspects of the eduction to be gotten at l.Jnion College-fot· example, c a 1 e n d a r structure, cour::;e structure, and the struc- ture of one's major with respect to required courses. Secondly, some of the departments, while attempting to find methods of presenting material in the most vital way, have experimented with new courses and techniques with widely varying degrees of success. Most notable in this regard are the recent innovations of the Chemistry, History, and English departments, all at the freshman level. While students have ocea· sionally been able to relate their private opinions on the relative success of these ventures to in- terested faculty members and ad- ministrators, there has been, by and large, no organized means of collecting and expressing student opinion on these and related sub- jects. In order for future adapta- tions to be most beneficial and least painful to all parties con- cerned, current curriculum evalu- ation. should precede any future changes. Cliticism by the students, as well as by faculty members, is defi- nitely necessary, again for two reasons. It would aid in design- ing new courses; as well as im- proving old ones, and hopefully, might give faculty members new insights, or suggest new ap- proaches, to some of the old prob- lems; for example, \What is to be done with the freshman English course 'l\ or \Why should all En- gineering students, as well as Lib- e1·al Arts students, be required to take introductory courses in the Liberal Arts divisions 1\ or conversely, \Why should Liberal Arts students not have to take an introductory Engineering course?\ Secondly, these issues have such direct bearing on the student body that student opinion should be taken into account in th~ design- ing of any new curricula, in a similar way to the consideration it received in the design for the proposed new dormitori~s in the Pasture. It logically follows that this question is or should be im- portant enough to the college community so that the student body will be willing to support and cooperate with the Curriculum Evaluation Committee. Curriculum Evaluation is not an easy project to complete success- fuly. A sizeable undertaking, it will take a great deal of time both this semester and next yea1·, and it is therefore imperative that the Curriculum Evaluation Committee have an active, work- ing membership of at least thirty students. Without the participa- tion of thh-ty members it would be both futile and l'idiculous to even think seriously of complet- ing such a project. Application forms are now available at the Dean of Students office on which students may des- ignate their specific interests in the evaluation and the times that they are available for participa- tion in the project. I expect that these forms will be distributed through the fraternity houses and dormitories shortly, and in clos- ing, may I urge all members of the student body to support the St-udent Council in this worth~· activity. J. Lawton Morrison, Student Body President. To the Editor of Concordiensis: This year the Campus Chest re- ceived more than five hundrerl dollars from its drive and the Ugly Man Contest. This repre- sents a twenty-five percent in- crease above last year's total. The officers of the Campus Re- ligious Council wish to thank the student body for its support, and express special appreciation for the good job that Joe Randall did as Campus Chest Chairman. Robert May '65, President Campus Religious Council To the Editor of Concordiensis: I am writing in reference to a recent book review published in your paper entitled \A Penetrat- ing Slav\ by Rodham E. Tulloss. For the past week I have been busily engaged in attempting to secure a copy of this seemingly monumental work. However, to the present date I have had no success. When I mentioned the title and author to my local book- seller, he just shrugged his shoulders, smiled a knowing smile, and exclaimed \there ain't no such animal.\ I have met with similar reactions everywhere. Just who is this Vasslov Nowejik any- way? Could it be that the editors of the Concordiensis are trying to · erpetuate some sort of a Freud? If so, I have only six terse words fo1· you-Waist high to a tele- vision, ha! Get your head out of the clouds,. Tulloss, stop dream- ing. ~tudent of Volga Tongues D. L. Schwartz. '69 P.S. Cancel my subscription! \Kanal'' • • • (Continued from Page 1) in the sewer and how they react to the situation in which no ac- tion or decision can possibly save them. \Kanal\ dramatizes the ab- solute despair that these men and women feel. It is an account of their ludicrous humiliation and, finally, their destruction. The sol- diers are portrayed as extremely heroi·c figures, and v·iewing their passionate moods is certainly not a gentle expetience. Savagery and Horror Here is a sampling of New York critics' reactions to \Kan- a!\: \A classic of horror .•• 110 brew for the squeamish!\-Cook World Telegram and Sun; \Re- Yolting!\ - Beckly, Herald Tri- bune; \The quality of' a night- mare!\-- Zunser, Cue; \A shock- er!\ - Newsweek; \Superb Ar- tistry!' - Gilbert, Daily Min·or; \Horrid Noisome Hell!\ Crother, N. Y. Times; \You feel you are watching the real thing, not a film!\ Wanda Hale, Daily News; \Juxtaposition of senti- ment and savagery!\- Winsten, N. Y. Post. Friday, March 6, 1'964 History Of Jazz: Jazz Su1n1ner By Tom Krehbiel If yGu will remember, the first week in July was cme of the hot- test periods of the past summer. It was so very hot that at the school l attended in Toronto, we students were allowed to attend classes without the usually man- datory jacket and tie. The other rules were stm, strictly enforced, however. AM the practice studios were to be in use whenever the school building was open, even the baths on the third floor. No one was to be late for a class, ever; no classes were to be miss- ed for any rea- son. No smok- ing in classes (which was a blessing consid- ering the heat). A n d loitering on the front offense: \Not something to keep you busy.'' The teachers were, of course, addressed as MISTER _Peterson, Brown, Thig- pen, or Nimmons, not Oscar, Ray Ed, or Phil. In short, the rule~ were very strict, and very much in effect. When we arrived at the school, we registered and paid our fees and were directed to nearby part~ of the city where we were likely to find inexpensive lodging. I finally located a room in the nco- bohemian part of town where the nouveau hip sat in sidewalk cof- fee houses and sipped espresso. I settled in and went back to the school to become acquainted with the school and my classmates. A :\lotley Group The students ranged in age from fifteen to forty-five and came from as fur as Washington, Georgia, and even one from Fin- land. There were professional musiciuns and amateurs. There was \Aunt Annie\ who plays piano on a kid's television talent show in Buffalo and Larry Rock• well who played bass with Woody Herman for a time. There was the bassist who was a professor of music at a small college north of Toronto who had become blind six months before, and the nurse who thought going to jazz school would be a good way to spend EXC~USIVE EUROPEAN FIL .. S! her month vacation. There was , the boy from Louisville (\Luv'll \ he said, but we soon found o~t the truth) and the social worker : from Chi.cago who taught the . · rou~·se might help her \relate\ : and flew home eve1~y weekend to . · see her husband. Add to this the red bearded drummer who came east as a refugee from western ?at;ds and the \Do you know . · Wrldwood Flower'?\ boys, and · me and you can see that we were a pretty heterogeneous group. Clas~es started Monday after we arrtved, and began with a test . t? _place us according to our pro- ! f1_c1ency and the perfection of our , pitch. After the tests we receiv- e? our schedules and our first as- signments. As the only student Gf composition and arranging, I had what amounted to a personal tutor in the person of Phil Nim- mons. Mr. Nimmons has been as- sociated with an<:l has arranged for Oscar Peterson fo1· a good number of years. J{e first intend- ed to be a doctor but switched to music and attended Toronto Con- servatory. He now leads a ten man group which is the best jazz group in T~)J:onto and does a great deal of wntmg and arranging for television and movies. He was as good .a teacher as he is a musi- cian and gave me a lot of valu- able help. Ray Brown is the real power at the school. Aside from being a great bassist and musician, he is quite a businessman. He mar- kets Ray Brown bass strings, bass bow stands, bass wheels, and bass cases, and has written the Ray Brown bass method books. He also heads Regal Recordings and Ray Brown Music, Ltd. Peterson and Thigpen are no slouches either. Each is a master of his instrument technically, and each has a mind bursting- 1 with musical ideas. Brown, Peter- son, and Thigpen become an al- most perfect unit when playing together. They euch contribute in such a way that the •vhole be- comes much more than just the sum of the parts This was the feeling· which they tried to pass on to the students. ::'\one of thl' teachers was interested in mal(- ing a student into a carbon of himself. He was more interested (Continued on Page 5) A New Polish Film! NOW THRU WEDNESDAY At 7:00 and 9:1() 117 Mohawk Ave., Scotia \A DEVILISH DISSECTION OF MAN THAT HAS HUMOR, SUSPENSE AND A DASH OF EVIL!'' - BGSLE.\' CROWTHER, N.Y. TIMES KN·IFE IN THE WATER DIRECTED BY ROMAN POLANSKI. A KANAWHA FILMS, LTD. PRESENTATION • f ¥ f f' f T T f f Y f T T T f f f f f • f f f f i' '¥ Y t y t\f' y y T y y y f' t t f 9 f 'f 'f' I DIAMANTE'S Enjoy our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOTT ST . OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M.- SUNDAYS 5 P.M.-3 A.M. For three Generations ••• Those Who Know. Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B. Mauriue B. Graubart & Sons ' 11 3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY Friday, Mar You: Luther Yc ernor of M terday at t Brackett 1\1 Practical Pc \The Art ar ment.\ Impo1 \This is a cisions for Youngdahl c ing Presiden be the most tion's histOl' ed that the : Americans must disapp .eJ\nment is stench of < and science the art anc ment, '' he 1 1·eject politi, g-overnment, is afflicted disease of \ ting bark : should have participating ernment or in politics. He cited t who, distre1 defeat in W in desperati The rest of tory. Yet .A declared, sh: as a career our future to enter the our own de~ part of the Fac·ul1 (Con tim red from on from an acic stead reactic reaction. Obje( A lot of cc types of re~ Nahabedian, to distingui: moderately pounds. Th search is t' they can be ly concentra Weinrich : of Economk U niver~:>ity o. His doctorat ket Structu: In this pape tention to t electrical c United Stat~ received hi: from Harv2 Degree from Economics. Chairman Weinrich with Union when he ser Albany Pha: ning of thh economics d, lege. He is that departl program. ImmediatE the teaching as a manag University l the mid-fifti velopment a: fleer at C Manhattan ~ cent's Colle where heals ident of the Auth' The Natic tion has aw Weick of Ut try departm Fellowship complex rea N orthwester the 1964-65 he will be from Union. Dr. Weid Fred Basolo authority in determine tl an overall this area of one of the o · ing research said. One of . of his worl! the level of . dergraduate · Union,, parti to radiochen IMPO There will Dr. Clark i expect to dental sch Oqte: J.. Time: 4 Place: I

h 6, 1'964 There was . · (\Luv'll found out worker the · · \relate\ : to to this the who came western you know boys, and at we were group. after with a test . our pro- ! tion of our, we receiv- ' first as- student I a personal Phil Nim- been as- arrang€d a good intend- to ronto Con- ads a ten best jazz a great for was as is a musi- of valu- power being he He mar- strings, and the books. Ltd. are no a master bursting Peter- an al- playing in \vhole be- just the was the to pas:; of thl· in malt- carbon of interested 5) 0 ' ' • t .. \ t ODS Friday, March 6, ·1964 Art Exhibit Ketz Named 0 TI T C (Continued from Page 1) Youngdahl Delivers Grade Repeal L Considered I Publications J ' ''j)ens I~ ere ~ . 0 . Offiffii ttee pre-Med and biology honors stu- 1 I dent, Horowitz is campus repre- '71'h.; ~ Sunday Wilfovd H. Ketz, athletic di- sentative to the Freedom Forum, ...L J ·~ · rector at Union College, has been and is in charge of selecting films Brackett ecture At H . . . f d Luther Youngdahl, former Gov-® ·--· ---- · aVCf Of eraor of Minnesota, spoke yes- 1 terday at the Annual Edgar T. Brackett Memorial Lecture on Practical Politics. Hts topic was \The Art and Science of Govern- ment.\ Important Decisions \This is a year of important de- cisions for most Americans,\ Youngdahl declared. \The upcom- ing Presidential election may well be the most important hi our na- tion's history.\ Young stahl stat• ed that the apathy of the average Americans towot·d's government must disappear if American gov- emment is to exist f1•ee of the stench . of corruption. \The art and science of politics is really the art and science of govern- ment,'' he said, \hut Americans reject politics as cot'rupt.\ Good g·overnment, Youngdahl declared, is afflicted with the American disease of \spectatoritus of sit- ting back and describing what should have been done, but not participating in the art of gov- ernment or the dirtying of hands in politics. · He cited the example of Hitler, who, distressed by the German defeat in World War I, resolved in desperation, to enter politics. The rest of that episode is his- tory. Yet Ame1·icans, Youngdahl declared, shy away from politics as a career. The deshe to take our future into our own hands, to enter the battlefields to shape our own destinies, is no longer a part of the American attitude. Fac·ulty • • • (Continued from Page 1) red from one species to another, from an acid to a base. The Bran- stead reaction is a donor acceptor reaction. Object of Research A lot of compounds display both types of reactions. According to Nahabedian, chemists are unable to distinguish these reactions in moderately concentrated com- pounds. The object . of his re- search is to determme whether · they can be distinguished in high- ly concentrated solutions. Weinrich studied at the Faculty of Economics and Science at the univer::;ity of London under Yame. His doctorate thesis was on \Mar- ket Structure and Competition.\ In this paper he paid special at- tention to the operations of the electrical corporations in the united States. Previously, he had received his Bachelor's Degree from Harvard and his Master's Degree from the London School of Economics. Chairman of Honors Program Weinrich has been associated with Union University sinee 1961 when he served on the faculty of Albany Pharmacy. At the begin- ning of this year he joined the economics department at the col- lege. He is presently chairman of that department's senior honors program. . . Immediately prior to entermg the teaching profession he served as a managing counselor at ~he University of Delaware. Durmg the mid-fifties he served as a de- velopment and pu~lic rela~ions_ of- ficer at Columbia UmveTs1ty, Manhattan College, and St. Vin- cent's College in Pennsylvania, where he also became a vice-pl'es- ident of the college. Authority In Field The National Science Founda- tion has awarded Dr. Charles F. Weick of Union College's chemis- try department a Scienc~ Facul~y Fellowship to study n~orgamc complex reaction mechamsms at Northwestern University during the 1964-65 academic year, when he will be on sabbatical leave from Union. . Dr. Weick will work w1th Dr. Fred Basolo considered to be an authority in' this field, trying ~o determine the individual steps m an overall reaction. Interest in this area of chemistry has been one of the outgro\Wths of pioneer- ing research in atomic power, he . said. One of the hoped-for results · of his work will be to increase the level of sophistication of un- dergraduate research projects at Union,, particularly as they !'elate to radiochemistry, he said. IMPORT ANr DATE: There will be a meeting with Dr. Clark for all students who expect to enter medical or dental school in Sept. 1965. Date: March 9th Time: 4:30 p.m. Place: Room 205, Dept. of Biological Sciences. LUTHER YOUNGDAHL Haverford's Student Curriculum There wiU be an informal open- . Committee has just proposed the ing of an exhibit of drawings and abolition of grades in all courses. paintings by Neppie Conner in According to .the proposal, grades Union College's Old Chapel from in English 11-12, a required com- :~-5 p.m. Sunday, Harold Keller, position course, would be abolish- instructor in art, has announced. · ed next year, accompanied by a Miss Conner's works will remain deemphasis of .g·rad'es in other on display throug·h April 11. courses. l\1iss Conner is a graduate of ·Grades iH major fielcls woulct Texas Christian University and be abolished in . 1.965-66, anct has a master's from the State : grades in remammg cou 1 ·ses University of Iowa. She is pres- would be abolished the following ently a member of the faculty at year. i the University of Arkansas. The proposal followed a long Displayed In Groups discussion of the purpose and She has participated in group function of grades. The student exhibitions in Memphis, Little · ~ommittee felt the two prima1·y Rock. Oklahoma City, Dallas, St. functions of g1·ades are motiva- Louis, Kansas City, and in other tion and evaluation, and that the middle West and Southwestern former tended to be destructive, cities. She has put on one-man while the latter tended to be mis- shows at Fort Hays (Kan.) State · leading. College, Washburn University, Evaluating Ability Grades as evaluators cannot give adequate information about University of Arkansas, and at Southwest Missouri State Col- lege. Prize Winner a students capabilities; grades as A g t . V motivators fail to operate con- U US US L' OX structively if the individual does not consider them a valid index ,..,.... 0 D1s· cus·~ . of his performance, according to In 1959 she won the Clara I. Ge1·hard Memorial Purchase Prize in tlte 17th annual Missouri ex- hibition in St. Louis, and in 1960 she won the Agnes Nillson Grove Watercolor Award at the Arkan- . sas Artist Exhibition at Little Rock. .6.. ~ ., ~ the report. The committee concluded that Basic Particles learning done for grades alone, neither motivated by the intrinsic P1·ofessor Augustus H. Fox, the interest of the material nor by chairman of the Department of the encouragement of a respected Mathematic~, will give a talk to. teacher, is both ephemeral .and Sigma :x;1 Society in E.E. 22 on worthless. Her wo1·ks may be viewed in Old Chapel from 9-9 Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Saturdays, and fmm 3-5 p.m. Sundays. There is no admission charge. Thursday, Mar-ch 12 at 8:30. The The committee report prop()sed topic of his speech will be \Ele- · that grades be replaced by mentary Particles.\ lengthy comments on papers .and Seidel To Describe Research Fumlamellt.al Particles exams and by personal confer- Doctor George R. Seidel, Man- The Sigma Xi Soc 1 'ety, hon 01 ._ ences between teacher and stu- p d Th · f 1 h ager of Education of du ont, ary f'raternity wh1 'ch llonot·s men ent. e comm1ttee e t t at ll R · H f h wi speak on \New du Pont e- in the scientific and engineering smce aver ord a s ahe.ad:v search.\ His lecture will be held fielcl, sponsors a talk every month established a high academic :r-ep- in the Chemistry Building, room by a membei' of the faculty. utation, the use of personal rec- 201 T d M h 10 t d · f d , on ues ay, arc , a Professor Fox':s speech this month ommen atwns or g r a u at e 30 A M has many inteJ·esting points. One schools and jobs would provide a 11 The l~ct~re is sponsored by the of them is concerned with the more valid and informative sys- Union College Chemistry Club Once -bell' eved th~ol'Y that the1·e tern than grades. d · D t ~ an ts open to everyone. oc or were as few fundamental parti- In urging serious discussion Seidel proposes to speak about cles as there were once materials and consideration of their pro- the new types of research being consictered elements. From the posal, the student committee conducted in du Pont's laborator- basic three puticle:o~, such as the statect that the Haverford Ad· ies. The object is to point out proton, neutron, and electron of ministration has \failed to show that the students of today must about thirty years ago, the num- interest in educational growth . . . be prepared to improve upon the bPr of \fundamental\ particles to match its expensive involve- Les.t ideas now known. The em- has increased to about ninety or ment in physical expansion.\ The phasis will also be on what in- a hundred at the present. The committee YiP\·ed the Administra- dustry expect::; from the college large number .of elementary sub- tion as being \mute in the dia- graduate. atomic partieles, guch as groups Iogue on f'ducational goals .and :---------------; of Mesons, Leptons and Baryons, methods\ which is necessary if has now given rise to the theory Haverford is to hold its place ill that they may be composites of the \forefront of modern educa- one another. lloweyer, this has tiona! thinking and in the long yet to be proved. Quaker tradition of educational Professor Fox has been a pro- innovation!' fessor at 'Cni<>n since 1929. He The student reaction to the pro- received his Bachelor degree posal was slightly varied. One from Western Reserve, Masters student viewed the proposal as from Oberlin College and Har- unworkable and thought its chan- vard Un!vers!ty, .and a Ph.D. at 1 ces of being put into effect were Yale Umvers1ty 111 1935. I s'im. Another student felt that , the proposal communicated a gen- i era! student <\Oncern. s. c. ••• : Jay Coblentz. Chairman of the S t u d en t Exam Committee, (Continued from Page 1) thought that the history of th.e agreed with F'az:io's compromise. proposal would parallel that of Som.e felt that the Council, by ac- the change in the final exam sys- ceptmg Beckerma~'s proposal, tern. He thought that it would be would be wrongly usmg the money followed by discussion and that which they })ayed through the eventually some change would ~tudent Tax. However, a shock- come about. mg·ly larg·e group e~pressed the j . I attitude of not carmg whether -Reprmted from the Swarth- the Council took any stand at all. more Phoenix. Wally's Diner • Home Made Pies Good Coffee • 325 Erie Blvd. Open Daily 5 A.M. 7 P.M. A new volume for the student of romance languages --ARROW~ From the region made famous in history and poetry ARROW brings this distinctive shirting ... Khyber Cloth. Woven on native looms and dyed with the incom- parable vegetable madder hues, it is tai- lored in our own im- peccable ivy styling. Here is a sport shirt for your wardrobe that because of its distinguished ap- pearance might end up being your favorite of them all. $7.95 named District 2 representative· for the Lectmes :tnd Concerts on the National Collegiate Ath- Committee. letic Association's College Com- T1:1lloss is a math major, but he mittee. has u stt·ong interest in literary As district representative he will serve on a committee that is studying the development of .pl·o- grams specifically intended for co' leges, as opposed to universi- ties, which would be sponsme<l by the NCAA.' 0ne of the 1•ecent proposals of this committee was to set up a national champion- ship swimming meet which wii! be next fat!. Ketz's appointment was for a four year term that will beg·in on Sept. 1. Ketz has been a member of the 'Union College faculty since 1932, when he first began to coach cross-country and track. He has been athletic director since 1956. Dh,trict 2 is comprised of col- leges in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Naval Academy in Maryland. Jazz ••• matters. He is a lead feature writet· for the Concorrly. and has won the Yudis Aware! forpoetry. Last year he was a Nott Scholar. Erdoes to Assist l<:rdoes, former Sports Editor, wHI work with the editor-in-chief putting- out the paper each week. He .is a division II major, plays varsity baseball, is on the Traffic Court, and is a member of the Northern Student Movement. A pt'e-med and chairman of Communications for the sopho- mot·e class, Robert P. Hoffman is al:;;o Editor of the Nott News for the second year. He has been ac- tive in the Northern Students Movement Dave Volkman is a varsity let- terman, having run Cross Coun- try. He is a sophomore Math major. A member of the Woodwind En- semble and the Skidmore-Union Orchestra, Robert S. Hoffman, is a pre-med English honors stu- dent. Dinner In Hale H()USe The Concordiensis staff had a (Continued from Page 2) dinner in Hale House, Monday l 'n· evening at which Professor Wil- . developing master~ of. th: in- liam Winne, Faculty Advisor for shument ami a feeling f01 the the paper, praised the work of music. !retiring Editor Bet·enson, and Since leaving the school, I have I hoped that the papet· would con- heard that it will not be in ses- 1 tinue under the same kind of sion next summer nor soon after. 1 capable leadership. Dean Lock- If it does open again in the near · wood, Dean Pollock, and Prof. future, I'll be back many times. Rappaport, as members of the There is always something one Publications Board, expressed can l.earn from Messrs. Bl'Own, their approval of the work of Peterson, Thigpen, and Nimmons. Concordy in the past year. THE ENGAGEMENT RING WITH THE PERFECT CENTER DIAMOND True artistry is expressed in the brilliant fashion styling of every Keepsake diamond engagement ring. Each setting is a master- piece of design. reflecting the full brilliance and beauty of the center diamond ..• a perfect gem of flawless clarity, fine color and meticulous modern cut. The name, Keepsake, in the ring and on the tag is your assurance of fine quality and lasting satisfaction. Your very per- sonal Keepsake diamond ring is awaiting your selection at your Keepsake Jeweler's store. Find him in the yellow pages. Prices from $100 to $2500. Rings enlarged to show beauty of detail ®Trade-mark registered. r----- ---- --.-~.~- ~~-··=·'·:11· 1 HOW TO PLAN' 'toUR ENG,AQ:SM.ENT ANB WED;OJN,Ql\~i I Please send two rtew b~okl!ets, \'Ht~w to Plan Your :Ehgage\' '::'1 1 m~nt ondWeddi119'' and \Cn 00 st~,G Your Oiomond ~in:gs,Y ?I I b. oth f<~r only 25c. Also s~nd spe~tol Qffet of beouttful 44 . 1 pcge: Bride*s Book. · · · .:, I 1 ~ Neme <J I ··ll Addr,.•-·~~--~~~~--~------------ 1 ' I ~l'ty . . . . . . . ·. . . . C<>~ ... -S.tQ!& . . . . ' . ,l I._!{:EE~AK~ DIA~ON'tl ~~f'l(;;e?·. ~Yn.~~\1~$>. !'l.JfiW )'9'RJ5jj

NEW COACH PAGE 1 Concordy Sports STUDENT ABROAD PAGE 3 Morrison Sets Mark; Thinclads Finish 3rd Season Fadeout;IBeaudry1nen Drown RPI, Trinity; Cagers Lose I · With Herculean strength, John Morrison, putting a record-breaking shot of 48'9\ led the Union wing-foots to third place at the 14 school Rochester Invitational Meet, last Saturday. The Garnet thin-clads, bettered only by the University of Rochester with 30 points and Alfred with 19Y 2 points, compiled 18 points to capture third place. The Union team was in close i:>>-----~-----·---­ Last'Two\Cornplete 8-2 Slate For Season contention for second place until the last event, the mile relay, in which they failed to place. Fol- lowing close behind Union in fourth place was Cortland with 167'2 points. Morrison's record-breaking toss broke a 14 year old record, set in 1950, by Kenneth Whalen who threw the lead ball 48'8Y2 \. Paul Wodell and Arnie Hausler com- bined with Morrison to take first,· third and fourth places in the shot. The distances thrown were: Morrison-first 48'9\; Fink (Ro- chester)-second 48'0\; Woden- third 45'9%,\; Hausler-fourth 44'9\. Other He1·oes Stu Kelly and Bob Newbegin combined to take second and fifth places respectively, in the pole vault. Kelly cleared 12'6\ and ... Newbegin vaulted 11'6\ to add points to the Garnet score. By Phil Evans A slug·gish Union five dropped its final two contests of the sea- son, squandering away a 6 1_ 49 On Saturday, February 28th, decision to R.P.I. Tuesday after the varsity swimmers .completed falling short at Tl·inity Saturday, their dual meet slate for the sea- 86-60. The Dutchmen, playing far son with a 61-34 triumph over below the form shown in the ini- R.P.I. The final record of the mer- men was 8 wins and 2 losses. tial games of the semester, never led in either game. The squad The first event of the day, the closed the campaign with a 12 _ 9 400 yd. medley relay, was the slate, s·omewhat Qff the l2- 6 pace highlight for the Garnet squad. set last year. RPI's quartet had been undefeat- · The cagers showed only inter- ed for nine meets this season, mittent signs of life in its finale and were anxious to keep their in the field house, handing R.P.I. record unmarked. Coach Beaudry its first victory over a Union five and Unions entry of Siers, Bern- in several years. The Engineers hard, Shields and Boles had oth- caught their hosts flat-footed in. er i?eas. As a result, the new the opening minutes and pried ~·~rsJty ~·ecord . nov;r stands at open a 17-7 lead. Union then ap- 3:59.8 (Sr~rs-1.00.6, Barnhard- peared to arouse itself from its I 1.10.4, Shl<:lds - 57.9, Boles - initial lethargy, closing in on the 50.9), leavmg the R.P.I,. ent~y visitors to trail 32.:29 at the half. more than two seconds m theu ' The Garnet was most impressive wake. in the waning moments of the Gamet Glides Home first stanza, leaving little doubt, From this point on R.P .I. show- for the time being, anyway, that ed little spark, and the Garnet it was the stronger team. It fore- went on to an easy victory. Bill ed R.P.I. to abandon the control Schauer won two events, the -200 offense the Engineers had initi- freestyle in 1:57.5 and the 500 ated, scoring 10 points in the final freestyle in 5:47.6, setting new two and a half minutes. R.P.I. pool records in both. Ge01·ge Papanicaloau touched out RPJ's, Other s c orin g contributions came from Morris, Shoenfeld, Sepples and Ring who combined to take fourth place in the dis- tance medley and Shoenfeld, Pan- off, Cloke and Ring who combined to take fifth place in the sprint medley. Lack of Life Leads to Loss Louden in 24 seconds for a ex.- The second half mirrored the· citing victory in the 50 yd. free- New shotput recol'd holder John' first in many respects, with the style, while John Boles garnered Morrison . notable exception that the Dutch- five mo1•e points for the mermen men neglected to re-awaken, and with a 52.7 second victory in the the dramatic possibilities of a 100 freestyle. Action Tonight Today at 7:00 p.m., Union will host R.P.I., Hamilton and Cort- land for a practice meet in the Field House. Tomorrow, MolTison will toss the shot at the I.C.A.A. A.A. meet. year's-end rescue were stunted. The Garnet outside men appeared to forget that they do have a set of plays and more important, that Toby Lustig isn't bad with a bas- .----------------------------.. ketball. In the first half the vet- Time Out: Man and Superman by Dave Volkman eran center seldom got the ball and failing to score from the field, picked up just 5 points in 10 free throw attempts. Overall, Lustig didn't have one of his bet- ter nights, ending with 16 points including 12 from the foul line, while collecting far fewer than his usual number of rebounds. He was the only Dutchman in double A cursory examination of this the 50 yard freestyle was 24.6 figu 1 ·es, as but 16 of 53 Union week's sports page will reveal, I in the 100 it was 54.9 and in 400 floor attempts found their mark. aside from a tremendous artistic 1 yard relay it was 3:49.4. The Dutchman Succumb to Trinity accomplishment, a veritable ple- 1·ecords are now in the 22's for Trinity proved to be just a lit- thora of record breaking per- the 50, 50.8 for the 100, and more tie too powerful for the Dutch- formances. Looking at the rec- than ten seconds lower in the 400. men at Hartford Saturday as it ord~ posted in the Alumni Gym- A partial explanation of this downed the Garnet cagers con- nasmm and the rlasges of ~he rec- phenomenon of athletes in the vincingly. The Bantams, paced by o~d holders. one gets the rmpres- last five years breaking al- Jim Belfiore's 29 points, led 40- swn that e1ther records were not most every record set in the past 31 at halftime, and outlasted a ~ept before 1960 or that man ~ad fifty years of college record keep- modest Union challenge midway JUSt recently learn~d h.o~ to ~w1m. ing can be found in the admis- through the second half to coast Paul Shields, who this year is un· In track the trend Is SJ~Ilar If.not sions policy. Coaches are forced to its 26 point victory. The Union defeated in the individual medley. l.-00 k. \ t\l (!, \A C.t: oN PI tV e yee;u...aJr Sf.A~ON JN SU.)IMMJ~&! • PAUt, Stt \ £.1.4)S , i)t-.)~ f€. A 1£.1> 1 t-.) Tiff£ ;t()CJ YD. t~p't, ME.QL£~, ~50 S£.1 ~ l\lf;W VA~'1'1 R'{oeo c ~ 111 ~ T E.ue~ u.nrH Pt l.•'\'·e • tHct. SIERS ~e,.- A ~E.w ~Et:o((~ l w Ttit:.. zoo vo, SA£.K~t\RokE. V.HiH A 2. ~l b 4 8. • c.)Hif..t..Os tttJo s•E?.RS -rEAME.o 10.-rtt e., u. f.>e.e\' HI\ eo 1\~0 Sot\trv B.ot...e.~ ·r o ~t:1 A ~Ew IY\t:.Ot..~\1 ~~t.'f\\f MAe~-S~Sf,t) • f~M ~f,~l> tr8 I!JI~S 2. L..o~ season by Dave Santos also came into the lithe center's possession. the 100 freestyle in 53.1, and the 500 freestyle in 6:14.8. Paul Shields ;;et a pool record of 2:16.3 in the individual medley. 400 medley relay: Trinity (Un- ion DSQ); 200 freestyle: Schauer (U), Evans (U), Miller (T) 1:58.1); 50 fretstyle: Prillaman (T), Boles (U), Papanicaloau (U) (23.5); 200 individual med- ley: Shields (U}, Smith (T), Beane (U) (2:16.3); Diving: Seckler (T), Morrison (U), Ewing (T); 100 butterfly: Hart- man (T), Bernhard (U), Koretz (T), (59.8): 100 freestyle: Schauer (U), Papanicaloau (U), Lorch (T) (53.1); 200 backstroke: Siers (U), Garrison (U), Cory- ell (T) (2:20.9); 500 freestyle: Schauer (U), Miller (T), Hevner (T) ( 6:14.88); 200 breastroke: Smith (T), Bernhard (U), Hart- man (T) (2:35.88); 400 free- of the squad stand excellent chances of placing very well in their events. Paul Shields will be · in the top three in the individ'Qa] ' medley, and Dick Siers should do equally well in the 200 back- : stroke. Bill Schauer should make • the finals in the 200 freestyle and 500 freestyle. In the 100 free- style John Boles should qualify for the final heat. Both Bill Bern- hard and Jim Garrison have a good chance to qualify for the 1 finals in their events. · The medley relay teams of Siers, Bernhard, Shields and 1 Boles is rated very highly, but will have a tough battle with Col- • gate, R.P .I., and Brockport for the top spots. The f1·eestyJe relay is equally highly regard~d. Boles, Schauel', Evans and Shields com- prise this team. pronounced. The questwn arises to compete with other colleges for threat was emasculated with sev- from whence come these super- g-ood athletes. This makes them en minutes left with the loss of huma~s that now populate our go out and try to enlist athletes Lustig on personal fouls. The athlet_1c teams and where were instead of letting them just hap- lanky team captain hit for 19 to they m 1938? pen. The rise in number of ap- lead the Garnet in output, follow- style relay: Union (Evans, HELLMAN THE. A. TRE Paul Shields coasted to an easy Sl · ld B 1 p · l u) · .. . . h . d' 'd 1 d 11e s, o es, apamca oa wm . m ~ e m .1v1 ua me ley (:~ :~7.1). The controversy raging around plications also brings in a sub- ed by Gary Brown's 16. Mike how fast would Jesse Owens have stantial amount of talent, by let- Ho1owaty was the most productive run with starting blocks and how ting the college be more selec- rebounder in the contest for the high would Cornelius Warmer- tive. Finally, the present day Un- Schenectadians, gathering 11 and dam have jumped with a fiber ion athletes train harder than chipping in with 9 tallies. The win glass pole instead of a bamboo they did in 1938. As in the top was Trinity's 13th in 18 games. one, has by now run the gambit amateut· ranks, the trend in col- Four Dutchmen played their from brilliant insight to hack- lege athletics has been to an em- last game Tuesday, starters Lus- neyed cliche without coming to a ph::tsis on conditioning rather tl}an tig, Holowaty, 1\'Iike Sahr, and re- conclusion. On a local level things on short, strength-conserving serve Eddie Hannan. Lustig are more clear. Morl'ison, who workouts. An aftemoon at the wound up with an even 500 points this week broke the Union Col- gym is no longer an occasional this season, dwarfing the former lege record, is simply superior to leisurely swim, but a daily bout' record of 406, and pushed his anything that has eyer lifter! a with physical t>xhaustion. career total to 1010. Lustig shot on this college's campus. The smashed both season and career other two putters, Wodell and Frosh End Strong . rebounding marks earlier this Hausler, are also close to the year, and was named to the 1375 Washington A.vo., Albany, N: Y: tm:nmg 1,11 a t1me of 2:19.6. This weekend the varsity is at Shields . Js the onl¥ member of I Buffalo· for the New York State ~he yars1ty to remam undefeate:l Championships. Several members Now! Exclusive Area Showtns! m h1s event over the dual meet schedule. Dick Siers continued his record setting pace in the 200 back- stroke setting a new varsity and R.P.I. pool record of 2:16.8. In the 200 yd. breastroke the fifth pool record of the day fel1, this time to RPI's Bradburn. His winning time was 2:23.0 Union's Bernhard copped second place. The Union 400 yd. freestyle re- lay completed the day with a 3:39.8 victory. Victory Over Trinity TiU1t; Cc;nlEI' Jc;w~lc;.-~ \BUY WITH CONFIDENCE\ -YOUR AUTHORIZED KEEPSAKE DEALER NOMINATED FOR 10 ACADEMY AWARDS • . • INCLUDING BEST PICTURE OF THE YEAR! 7/JJn' ;Tones! EASTMAMCDLOR A UNITEO MQSIHOI'UT lliWt FRIDAY-3 SHOWS 5:30 - 7:40 - 9:50 SAT.-4 SHOWS 2:30 - 5 • 7:40 - 9:50 SUNDAY--3 SHOWS 2:30 - 5:30 - 8:3D Vol. 95- Bic Al Christop won a Woe . lowship, at nually to s proficiency . field and w college te fields. Bj Scholar, is tory and European tory in gr~ ·• has appliec Chicago, m Numero Sponsored Wilson Fou ship will a:f year at any tional stiper quirements f mel'OUS and Bickford ha thought tow had to shoVI excellence a· · lege 1~ecom 11,000 stude1 fellowship, c ed. It is one ous awards :l ate student. Last yea1 recipient of · ±'or outstand tory. Althou his f1•ee tim the History also electe< Chess Club Frate1 ·Show lmprc The Frate port of the 64, shows si the achieve1 ties. For th histo1'Y, the stands high« index. Mat This deve contrast to preceding s• of that repo ed four frai Probation s: indices of annual Schc Awa1·d was fact that s had been : change of s ing in a do' Pallo hi. the m body of the lock says th aging.\ Per of the rise teen fratern rt>cord. Moreover, every distance Last Saturday the Garnet fresh- ECAC small college five on three 1·erord O\'er a half mile has been man swimmers completed their occasions. Holowaty turned in set in the last five years, by season with a 48-ll victory over several strong performances late either Tom Hoffman or Elmer RPI, giving them a 2 and 4 rec- in the season, after seeing but Earlier in the week the mer- men had added their seventh vic- tory by defeating Trinity College by 55-40. '-.••••••••••••~\~1 their indic· were Delta Bill Schauer had a big day for Jurjevics. ord. limited action in two and a half Union, winning three events. I:Ie· ......,.....,,.............,...,............,....,..,........,.....,....._ \Von the 200 freestyle in 1:58.1, • • • • •\ • • 9 '• • • + • • • ' ',.. • .,. • ., • ...,.,... ......... ,.,..,. ...... ,...,.,.....r-r .......... , ..... ...,,,... ......... , ................... .., ............................... , ..... . Phi Sigma 0.398, 0.309, ly. Four fr: ta Phi, Ph~ Delta Chi, a decreases 1 0.245 to A. changes af line-·up o.f · spectacular In swimming one need only to Diver Chris Cassels was a. seasons. Sahr was somewhat ennumerate the records broken standout for the frosh. He was sporadic this year, _Playing excit- this year (see cartoon) to see that undefeated in six meets, and: ing ba~ketball.at hiS best, and at Athlete Poll the teams of the past three years stands an excellent chance to least mterestmg basketball at are far above any past group. place very high in the State other times. . To Be Held Going back to 1938, the record in Championships at Buffalo tomor- The campaign must be termed The coaches have nominated ~P-:s.cal-<«9 INTERLOCKING RING SETS TIME CENTER JEWELERS row. a success for Coach El Evans, two new candidates and renamed, ~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;; who inherited the remains of a last month's choice for the athlete KNAPP SERVICE LTD. squad that had been built around th ll b b h the abilities of Dave Santos un- of the mon po to e run Y t e · del' former mentor Carl Witzel. Block-U Society next week. . Evans likes a fast break offense, Coach Beaudry feels he has a and managed to produce a win- strong candidate in Paul Shields, ning season with a squad whose his undefeated sophomore swim- . speed is pretty much concentr~t- ming star. ed in Messrs. Brown and Lustig. Bill Brodernick, the senior co- 1000 State St. Fast Frosh tn Fortify Forces captain of Coach Allison's wres- DI 6-5900 Looking ahead to next year, tling squad, has been named to Coach Evans will pick up both the ballot after a fine 6-3 season. speed and depth from an impres- In his 137 lbs. weight class, Sig- sive yearling squad, but will be rna Chi's president was an ex- deprived of height. Helping out plosive threat. He earned his Brown and Larry Rivkin in the blanket this year after three let- backcourt will be Greg Olson, ter-winning seasons. VOLKSWAGEN & IMPORT • PARTS & SERVICE REPAIRS Experience and Ability Tom Urbelis, and Denny Peskin, Three time E.C.A.C. weekly with re-inforcement from sopho- award winner Toby Lustig was more Al Hrdlicka if he can win boosted once more by his Coach his current battle with the books. 1 El Evans. Tobias set a one season For inside strength Evans will scoring record of 484 points and look to freshman Bill Boehm, who 336 rebounds. The 6'5\ senior av- showed marked development uti- eraged 24.2 points and 16.8 re- eler cub coach Chris Schmid this bounds per game as he led the season, to join returnees John Garnet's fast break attack. The Clover and Dave Kasper. caree1· rebound record set last Dave's :Squire $hop WHITE LEVI'S 4.49 MADRAS, BUCKLE, DRESS BELTS . D. U. and 1 to fourth i: fifth place drop1Jed mo; ' teenth plac1 A.D. Phi d ·eighth and spectively. Pollock · rise in the· accompaniec in the all-f he explaine• that the fa always wo: basically b• are rusty s summer va to be hurt Christmas nity index, ~ be lowered ' ................. ~~~. ~~~.~~~ •• :: ••••••• u .. J . ~5f.1 (Cant]

NEW COACH PAGE 1 Concordy Sports STUDENT ABROAD PAGE 3 PRI ANA Pt: Morrison Sets Mark; Thinclads Finish 3rd Time Out: Man and Superman ~~P$.~.1<~ INTERLOCKING RING SETS TIME CENTER JEWELERS by Dave Volkman KNAPP SERVICE LTD. 1000 State St. VOLKSWAGEN & IMPORT • PARTS & SERVICE REPAIRS Experience and Ability Season Fadeout; Beaudrynten Drown RPI, Trinity;~ Cagers Lose Last Two Contplete 8-2 Slate For Season ·. ~A C.( oN ftlrv E:~lLalf Sf.ASON IN SWJMMI<\)& V • f>~\}1, Stt 1£.1..4)S, t)~~f€Aif.D t ~1Hf£ '-()0 YV. uJD't..- ME.t>c..€'1 1 At-SO S€.1 P. Nf:W U A~&1V Rf(o~o 1 t-1 nt A r ~ue~ UJ ~''\' PI l.;.,..,.f,,. • O~c.t SlERS ~EI A ~E.W REcoc<t> \t-J TMf.. Zoo YO, BA!.I<S\Ro~E. bHIH A 2. ~U:\8• • ':,Hi ~~OS #\ tJ 0 s I E.RS (tAM f:..O \->Iii\ e.,u.. f.>e~NHAeo Ai\lO .JotiJV e.oc...es ro ~t:1 A ~ eW M f.OL.(:.\1 ~tLf\'1 MA~K- S :~ • f~M Rf.~l> ~8 I.VIIJS 2- (...{)~ TiUJc; Ct;nlt;l' Jc;wc;lc;.-s \BUY WITH CONFIDENCE\ -YOUR AUTHORIZED KEEPSAKE DEALER NOMINATED FOR 10 ACADEMY AWARDS . • INCLUDING BEST PICTURE OF THE YEAR! 7il~n ;Tones! EASTMAHCDLOR A UNITED ARIIS!Hili'UT RiWS£ FRIDAY-3 SHOWS 5;30 • 7:40 • 9:SO SAT.--4 SHOWS 2:30 • S • 7:40 • 9:50 SUNDAY-3 SHOWS 2:30 • 5:30 • 8:30 Vol. 95 - Christopl >. w won a oo lowship, an nually to st o proficiency field and wl l'ollege te~ 1 fields. Bi< Scholar, is tory and i 1-Guropean r\t tol'y in gra has applied Chicago, an Xumerm1 Spom;ored Wilson Four ,;hip will aff ll \'ear at any ' tional stipen< quirements f< ll!Pl'OUS .and , Bil'kf'ord hac ;r;, Lhought towt ' had to shO\v t•xcellence an ),•g-e recomr '• 11.000 fltuden fellowship, 01 ,.,!, It is one \u~ awards f< ate student. Lust year, reeipient of t for outstandi1 tory. Althow hi,; free time till' Histm·y abo elected t 'fwss Club t Frater Show lmpro Tlw Frute1 port of the ,; 1, shows stJ • till' arhieven lies. Fur the history, thP stands high£> in,Jt•'\. ' :\'larl This dew!• •·ontrast to prPrPding se :; 111' that repot t•d four frat< l'rohatinn si1 indil'es of I «~ annual Sl'ho Award was fal't that sc had been s • j'l\l~~ni7,e aof;l;,~ Polloc In the 111l lJ11dy of tlw ~l loek savs tlu ( aging.'' Perl of the ris<> i tH•n fratPrni :,..•••••••••••••fl't~ theit· indir<> were Delta l fTTTY¥¥¥¥YYYtf+Tff'TTTY'TTTfti¥i'TTTf'TfffTTff'ttf Dave's :Squir-e $hop WHITE LEVI'S MADRAS, BUCKlE, DRESS BELTS 328 STATE ST Dally te 5:10 • Tue1. 6' Thur. 'til' Phi Sigma l 11.:{98, O.!W9, o ly. Four fra ta Phi, Phy Delta Chi, at decreases r: '.) o.2.tii to A.I changes aff line-up of f ;;pertarular ll. U. and ( ~ to fourth a: fifth places dropped mos teenth place A.D. !'hi dr \ighth anrl • ~pectively. Pollock ]l rise in the ~ at-companied in the all-fr IH> explainerl that the fal always wor basically be are rusty sc summer vue to be hurt ( 'hristmas ' niiy index, o he lowered l •. freshman ir ~' bership rollE two will p mutely equa I> .. 4 •• 4 4 4 + + 4 4 ... + ,4 ,4 .... ,I • + + ,. • + 4 + • + • • + • + + • • • + • + • .. • :. (Con til

• PRIMARY ANALYZED Page 3 Vol. 95- No. 19 Founded at Union College 1n 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y. MARCH 1 ~, 1964 MOV·IE REVIEW Page 2 PRICE 15 CENTS Bickford Becomes A Wilson Fellow Olof~ Curtis To Perform Gifford Wingate To Leave For University of Texas Christopher Bickford has 't>--·-- won a Woodrow Wilson Fel- • : lowship, an award made an- nually to students who show proficiency in a designated New Work \()\ \~'1'1 Tti~ ITt\ ·ro Jssti.B excellent well in will be · individual · should do 200 back-: make • and 100 free- qualify Bill Bern- on have a for the 1 teams of and 1 but with Col- • for the relay is Boles, com- EATRE bany, N: Y: Showtng! YEAR! jlt.Jj, lliWt 7:40 - 9:50 7:40 - 9:50 5:30 - 8:30 . field and who wish to pursue college teaching in their fields. Bickford, a N ott Scholar, is majoring in his- tory and intends to study European . Intellectual His- tory in graduate school. He has applied to Harvard, Yale, Chicago, and Wisconsin. Numerous Requirements Sponsored by the Woodrow Wilson Foundation, the fellow- ship will afford tuition for one year at any college plus an addi- tional stipend of $1800. The re- quirements for the award are nu- merous and difficult to fulfilL Bickford had to exhibit serious thought toward college teac;hing, had to show continual scholastic excellence and had to get a col- lege 1~ecommendation. Of the 11,000 students who apply for the fellowship, only 1,500 are accept- ed. It is one of the most prestigi- ous awards for a first year gradu- ate student. Last year, Bickford was the recipient of the Joseph Doty Prize for outstanding scholarship in his- tory. Although he spends most of his f1•ee thne as a grant-in-aid in the Histor:r Department, he ·was also elected President of the Chess Club this fall. Fraternities Show Index Improvement The Fraternity Scholarship Re- port of the Fall Semester, 1963- 64, shows strong improvement i_n the achievement of the fraterm- ties. For the first time in recent histol'y, tile all-fraternity index stands higher than the all-college index. Marked Contrast This development is in marked contrast to the report for the preceding semester. At the time of that repm·t, Dean Pollock pla~­ ed four fraternities on Academic Probation since they had overall indices of less than 2.00. The annual Scholarship Improvement A wa1·d was not given due to the fact that so little improvement had been shown, most of the change of scholarship indices be- ing in a downward direction. Pollock Encouraged hi. the message pt·eceding the body of the current report, Pol- lock says that it is \most encour- aging.\ Perhaps most indicatiye of the rise is the fact that tlnr- teen fraternities showed gains in ••••'t\J their indices. Largest gainers were Delta Upsilon, Chi Psi, and Phi Sigma Kappa, with 1·isel1: of 0.398, 0.309, and 0.212, respective- ly. Four fraternities, Alpha Del- ta Phi Phy Sigma Delta, Theta Delta Chi and Beta Theta Pi, had decreases' ranging from Beta's 0.245 to A.D. Phi's 0.001. The~e <'hanges affected the . ~cholastiC line-·up o.f the fratermt1es. Most spectacular were the jumps of T'\'t¥T'¥¥t .... ' . D. U. and Chi Psi from thirteen to fourth and from eleventh to fifth places, respectively. Beta drop\]Jed most, from fifth to four- ' teenth place, while T.D. C~i and A.D. Phi dropped from third to · eighth and eighth to twelfth re- spectively. . Pollock predicted an overall rise in the all men's index to be accompanied by a slight decrease in the all-fraternity index. This, he explained, was due to the fact that the fall semester is almost always worse than the spring, basically because most students are rusty scholars after the long summer vacation and they tend to be hurt in finals right after Christmas vacation. The frater- nity index, on the other hand, will ~ be lowered by the addition of the . hership rolls. He feels that these l . · freshman indices to their mem- · two will probably be approxi- • • • .... • ., • ·· mately equal, although he point:- ( Continued on Page 5) CHRIS BICKFORD Lomax Sings And Speaks On F ollrlore \Folk songs are a people's his- tory of the United States.\ With these words Julian Olf introduc- ed Alan Lomax, the noted folk song collector, at last Tuesday's evening convocation. Folk Culture On Wednesday evening, March 18, a concert will be presented in Union College's Memorial Chapel by the Albany Symphony Orchestra. Joining the Albany Symphony and its musical di- rector, Dr. Edgar Curtis, will be Theo Olaf, a guest violin soloist from the Netherlands. Musical Prodigy Theo Olof is an unusual ex- ample of a musical prodigy who managed to smvive the awkward stages of adolescence and emerge with his musical gifts unblem- ished. At the age of seven Mr. Olaf was performing as a solo- ist with the Amsterdam Concert- gebouw under Willem Mengle- berg, and he has studied through- out his youth with the outstand- ing teachers in Europe. He is currently the concertmaster of the Residentie Orchestra in the Hague. Gifford Wingate instructs in one of his early efforts at direction. Voter Registration Receives S C Support This week the student council + Gifford W. Wingate, Associate Professor of Speech and Drama- tics, and Director of the Mounte- banks, has resigned from the Un- ion faculty to accept a position at Texas Western College, El Paso, Texas. Professor Winagte will become Chairman of the Depart- ment of Speech and Drama and a full professor at the expanding branch of the University of Texas. DirectDr for Uecade In charge of the college drama group for the past ten years, Pro- fessor Wingate directed many im- pOl'tant plays on the Union Col- lege campus. Among these were: \Pantagleize \The Apple,\ \Sta- lag 17,\ and \Androcles and the Lion.\ This year the Mountebanks have moved into the new Nott Memo1•ial Theater, where they have put on \The Dybbuk\ and are pre;sently preparing \Twelve Angry Men\ under \Wingate's di- rection. Delphic Award Winner Professor Wingate received his education at the State University of Education at Albany, where he attained both his B.A. and M.A. deg1·ees, and Cornell University, which granted him a Ph.D. in 1954. In 1958 he was honored by the Delphic Society with its Hon- orary Service Awul. He will leave for his new position follow- ing Union's summer session this year. passed a motion made by John ~----------------------------• Beckerman to suppo1•t a fund- raising drive. The purpose of this drive is to help defer the ex- penses of the students going to North Carolina to help with voter registration. Three Union College students and Prof. Bruce Cle- Olof is appearing in the United States for the first time as a solo- ist, though he toured this country last year with his orchestra. He has always been devoted to the performance of contemporary works, and he has been a source of encouragement for many com- posers who otherwise might not have been assured of fine per- formances for their violin con- certi. A large number of scores have been dedicated to Mr. Olof by their composers, and it is one of these which will be heard on Wednesday evening when the Al- bany Symphony and Theo Olof will present the second Ame1·ican performance of a violin concerto written in 1963 by Han Kox, a contemporary Dutch composer. This work, which has just receiv- ed its first performance in the Nether lands, will be given its American premiere by Dr. Curtis on Tuesday night in Albany. Mr. Lomax attempted to give a picture of American folk cul- ture using narrative and song. He said that the folk revival in America has been a sudden thing. Ten years ago there were less than five hundred banjo pickers in Ame1•ica, today there must be Interesting Music over a million. Audiences are tir- Dr. Curtis described the Kox . ments, of the faculty, are going to North Carolina in conjunction with the National Student YWCA An Open Letter to the Student Body from Student Council President Lawton Morrison To My Fellow Students: eel of being audiences. work as a very interesting piece When asked what the most of work, containing an important commonly sunk folk song in musical surprise. The concerto is America is, the audience was con- sti·ongly melodic, with a first tinuosly wrong. Lomat named movement which slips, after a \Th.e Frog Went A'Cortin'.\ It displaced cadenza, into an almost expresses the melting pot of blues-like passage. The slow American culture. In second place movement is described as being he named \Barbara Allen\ as dE¥Jp and inkospective and the \ ... the great ballad of frigid-~ last movement displays adven- ity.\ turous rhythmic passages. The (Continued on Page 5) (Continued on Page 5) Jazz Weekend Features Dizzy Gillespie Concert \DIZ\ Jazz weekend will feature a concert by Dizzy Gillespie on Saturday, March 21, at 8:00 P.M. in Memo1·ial Chapel. Tickets cost $2.50 per person and will be available at dormitories, fraterni- ties, and the Student Activities office during the coming week Off Campus Party In addition, an off-campus party will be held by eight fra- ternities which decided to go ahead with the project after the use of Memorial Field House was vetoed. Shaughnessy hall in Sche- nectady has been engaged and a band has been hired. A shuttle bus will be run between the cam- pus and the party. Tickets are available for everyone from the presidents of the fraternities in- (Continued on Page 5) voter Registration Drive. PurpDse Explained . . . Civil Rights, the impending voter registration trip by a con- tn~gent from the college, and the Student Council obligation in thrs urgent moral problem have been the particular concem of the Council for the past two meetings. On Wednesday the Council endorsed the plans of Mr. Clements and three Union Students in- Victor Fazio, a member \Of the Union College Civil Rights Com- mittee, explained the purpose of this trip, mentioning that this is one of the more conservative efforts in the civil rights move- ment. The students will visit with Negro families in the urban areas of Raleigh, N. C. and ask whether or not they have regis- tered to vote. They will investi- gate the opposition, if any, which Negroes have received in their efforts to vote and this informa- tion will be compiled and turned over to organi:!;ations working on . ~endin.g to trave! to Raleigh, N.C. over Spring vacation to partic- Ipate m the National Student YWCA Voter Registration Drive. civil rights in the area. Conservative Organization David Berenson pointed out that the YWCA is a relatively conservative organization and that this is reflected in the nature of this program. It involves no demonstrations or emotional ac- tivities of any sort. Instead, it will be a very business-like trip and those students participating will receive training beforehand. Mr. Berenson felt that since this is one of the great moral ques- tions of the day, it was the Coun- cil's duty to give its support to the motion. More Than Civil Rights Council action is in the form of endorsement and in sUpport for the conduct of a fund drive designed to help defray the costs of ~articipation for the Union Group. In addition to }llacing col- lectiOn posters at key places on the campus, the Council has man- dated me, as its President, to express explicitly the following opinions and points underlying the motion: 1) Civil Rights is a problem affecting every citizen of the United States, and, therefore, is an issue on which the Student Body and Faculty of Union College should take a stand. 2) The question of support for the voter registration action in this particular case is concerned not with partisan action but with the most urgent moral problem of our time. ' 3) Students and Faculty members alike are w·ged to demon- strate th~ir support of the Civil Rights movement by contributing to the com boxes which are placed on campus. If money is collected in excess of that needed to aid with the expenses incurred by the Union group through their participation these ~unds will be contributed to the Union College Civil Right~ Committee, a non-tax-supported organization, for their activities and research. The Council proceeded deliberately in its consideration of its action, and many points were discussed which are not reflected in the form of the final motion. One of the major of these is this: should the Student Council commit even the funds necessary for making posters for such a controversial action, when such funds are from Student Tax. Another equally important question is whether the Student Council represents the feeling of the Student Body when it acts to. s1;1pport. any pha.se ~f the Civil Rights move- ment, or whether this 1s an Issue which 1s better left to the con- Ivens LeFlore emphasized that the voter 1·egistration drive em- braced much more than just civil rights. A situation exists in which Americans are being prevented from exercising their right to vote. He reminded the council that this is not a situation of N ortherliers meddling in South- ern affairs. It is a case of Ameri- cans aiding other Americans in safeguarding an important demo-' . science of individuals. Some of the negative votes for the motion w~re from memb~rs who ~ould not resolve these questions in their mmds, although m conscience they themselves fav<Jred action in the Rights movement. cratic privilege. The motion was passed by a vote of 21-3. It provides for sev- eral coin bDxes and explanatory posters to be placed in several lo- cations around campus. Another . pt·ovision in the motion was that Lawton Morrison, President of the Student Body, write an open letter to the college community explaining the purposes of the drive and emphasizing its import- . ance. The funds collected will help defray the expenses ·Of Mr. Clements and the students trav- . (Continued on Page 5) A question concerning the pertinence of northern student participation in affairs concerning the moral conscience and legal structu~e of a regi<J~al e~eme~t arose.. Civil Rights, particularly concer~mg voter ;teg~stratiOn for a n2:t10nal election, it was count- . ere~, IS a conshtut10nal, hence national object of concern and actwn. These and smaller questions are unresolved in the minds of some members of the Council. . The ~espouse of .students and !acuity at the collection boxes will provide a graphic demonstration of the support or lack of supp<?rt in the college community for this action. But the question remams, does the Union College student stand in favor of Civil Rights, and, if so, what action, if any, should the representative student government body take when they have the opportunity to speak out in favor of the Civil Rights movement, a movement which enjoys wide student support and activity? If ever your representatives on the Student Council were in need of an explicit statement of opinion from you, the students whom they represent as spokesmen for the Union Student, it is now. J. Lawtolt Morrison, Jr. President, Student Council

• i) ·. PRIMARY ANALYZED Page 3 Vol. 95 - No. 19 ft'otuuled al [Inion College 111 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y. MARCH 13, 1964 MOVIE REVIEW Page 2 PRICE 15 CENTS ~Bickford Becomes \ A Wilson Fellow I Olof, Curtis iTo Perform 'New Work Gifford Wingate To Leave For University of Texas '-00 io excellent well iu will Ill' individual should d•· 200 huek- ould mak<· ty It• aud 100 fret·· qualif~ Bill Ber11 Christopher Bickford hast '· won a Woodrow Wilson Fel- 1 lowship, an award made an-I nually to students who show i o proficiency in a designated: field and who wish to pursue i eollege teaching in their I 1 fields. Bickford, a Nott Scholar, is majoring in his- tory and intends to study ' I<}uropean Intellectual His- •., tol'y in graduate school. He 1 ! has applied to Harvard, Yale, Chicago, and Wisconsin. 1 ).;umerous Hequirements 1 :'-lponsored br thP Wo()(lrow I Wilson Foundation, tht> ft'llow- ;;hip will afford tuition for one 11 \\eal' at any college plus an addi- tional stipend of $1800. Tlw re- quirements for the award m·e nu- lllerous and difficult to fulfill. , Bickford had to Pxhihit sPI'ious il';t thought toward colJpge teaching, had to show continual scholastic Pxcellence and had to get a col- l,,ge recommendation. Of the '• 11.000 students \vho apply for the fellowship, only 1,500 are acc~p~­ <'tl. It is one of the most prestlgl- \us awards for a first year gradu- • ale :;tud~nt. Last year, Birkford was the reeipient of ~he Joseph D?t~: Pri.ze for outstandmg schola1·shtp 111 hts- torv. Although he spend~> most of ' his' free time as a grant-in-aid in t lw History DPJmrtment, he was abu elt>cted Preside11t of thE' 1 'lwss <.'lub this fall. huve a c for thv Fraternities \Show Index tPUl11:-\ O! and hut with Col- forth<· relay i> ·~ Bole~. t'Olll· Improvement Tlw Frat~rnitv Scholar,;hip Re- port of the Fali Semester, 191}3- ,; I, shows strong improYement in • thL' arhieYement of the fraterni- ties. For th~ first tinw in recent any, N: Y: YEAR! s! .. history, the all-fratNnity index stands higher than the nll-<·ollege in•l<''\. :\'larked Contrast This development is in mnrketl •·ontrast to the report for the prerPding semeste1·. At the time ,; .. r that report, Dean Pollock plac;- ,.d four fraternities un Academic l'mhatinn sinee thev had overall indil'es of less th~m ~.00. The Cl annual Scholarship Improvement A ward was HOt given due to the fal't that so little impro,·ement h:1d been shown, most of the •·hange of scholarship itHlices he- • inp,· in a downwanl direction. Pollock Encouraged In the nwssage precPriing the body of the cUJTPnt report, Pol- ~1' loel~ savs that it is \rnost encour- 7'40 - 9:50 ( aging.'' Pt>rhaps most indicati:·e of the rise is the fad that thlr- 5:30 - 8:30 l . . tt·en fmtE't'nitiPs showP< ga10s m 7:40 . 9:50 thl'ir indices. Largest g-amers were Delta Upsilon, Chi l's.i, and ' t f' ' ' .. :10 Phi Sig-ma Kappa, with rise~ of o.:m8, o.:W9, an<l 0.212. respectlve- c ly. Four fratemities, Alpha Del- , tu Phi Phv Sigma Delta, Theta Delta C'hi ;n<l Beta Theta Pi, had dl.'rreases' rang-ing from Beta's o.2.Hi to A.D. Phi's ().001. The~e '.) <\hanges affected the. ~cholast1c line-up of the t'ratermttes. Most spectacular wrre the jumJ?S of D. U. and Chi Psi from thirteen ~ to fourth and from eleventh to fifth places, respec~ively. Beta dropped most, from f1fth to .four- teenth place, while T.D. C~t and 0 A.D. !'hi dropped from thml to ~ .. ighth ann eighth to twelfth re- ~ ~pectively. ~ Pollock predicted an overall -i 1 ise in the all men's index to be r· Ul'C011lpanied by a slight decrea~e ~ in the all-fraternity index. Th1s, ~ .llP explained, was due to the fact i that the fall semester is almost < (!) always worse than the spring, ~ hasicullv because most students < are rusty scholars after the long < :;ummer vacation and they tend ~ .~ to be hurt in finals right after < t 'hr.istmas vacation. The frater- ~ nity index, on the other hand, will < he lowered by the addition of the '· freshman indices to their mem- ' \ , bership rolls. He feels that these • two will probably be approxi- ' •••••• }. mutely equal, although he point- ( Continued on Page 5) CHIUS BICKFORD On Wt•drwsdav PVPning·, Man·h IR, a t'OIH'PI't ,~·ill hP presenh•d in L\nion < 'olleg('',; :\1t>morial ChapP! i>y tlw Alban~· Symphony Orl'ht•stra. J Dining tlw Albany Symphony and its musieal di- l'l't'l<>r, I>r. J<:dg:ll' Curti~. will he Tlwo Olaf, a g·upst Yiolin :::oloist from t lw :-\ Piht•rland\. \I usiral !'I'Ddigy Tlwu Olof is an unusual PX- amplt• of a musieal prodigy who managt>d to sun·h·e tlw a \\'k wan! S tag\l'' 0 f adolt-S<'l'IH'P and ('Ill(' l'ge with his musical gifts unhk•m- blwd. At tlw agl' of' twven Mr. Olaf wa:; pt•rfonning- as a solo- ist with tlw Ant>'lL·rdam Cont·ert- gelJOU\\. undPr WiliPrn Mengle- berg, and ht• ha~> studit>d through- out his :;outh with till' outstand- ing- tearhl'l'S i 11 Eumpt>. Ht• is eurrently t.lw eoneertmaster of tht> RP:;idt>ntil' OrelH•\tra in the Hag-UP. Gifl'ortl W. Wingate, Associate I'rof('ssor nf Speel·h and Drama- tics, and Director of the Mounte- banks, ha:< rl'sigm•d from the Un- ion faculty to al'ct>pt a position at Texas W t•stl'l'll Colleg-e, El Paso, T~xas. I 'rofPssor Winagte will Leeome Chairman of the Dej!latt- nwnt of Speech anti Drama and , a full profpssor at the expanding · bmneh of tht• l\ni\'Prsity of TPxa>'. Din•ctot· fot· Decade In ehargt• of tlH' ('ulleg·e drama group for tht• pa,.;l tl·n years, Pro- fessot' Wingate directed many im- portant play,; on the 'Cnion Col- lege eampu;:;. Among tht·se were: \Pantagleize \The Apple,\ \Sta- lag l'i,\ and \Andrnele:< and the Lion.\ This year tho Mountebanks havp moved into the new Nott : Menwrial Theater·, where they ha\·e put on \The Dybbuk\ and , are presently preparing \TwelvE' . Ang1·y l\lpn\ under Wingate's di- rPction. Dl'lphic Award Winner Lomax Sings And Speaks On Folklore Olof i:; appt>aring in the United States for the first time as a solo- ist, though he toured this country la~>t veal' with his orchestra. He has always lwPII devoted to the pl•l'fornuuwe of eontemporary works, and hP ha~ hPPn a source of encouragement for many com- posers who otherwise mig·ht not have been assured of fine pet·- formanees for their violin con- certi. A large number of scores have hl'en dedieated t.o Mr. Olof by their eomposers, and it is one of these which will be heard on Werinesday e\·ening when the Al- bany Symphony and Theo Olof will present the second American performanee of a Yiolin concerto written in 191i3 by Han Kox, a contemporary Dutch composer. This work, which has just receiv- ed its first performance in the ~ etherlam!s, will be given its American premiere by Dr. Curtis on Tuesday night in Albany. Gifford Wingate instructs in one of his early effot·ts at dirrction. Professor Wingate received his Pducation at the State 'Cniversity uf Edueation at Albany, where he attained both his B.A. and M.A. degrees, and Comell University, which granted him a Ph.D. in 19i:i4. In 1958 he was honored by the Delphic Society with its Hon- orary SE'rvire Awarl. He will leave for his new position follow- ing- L'nion's ;;ummel' :<Pssion this yPar. \Folk song-~ arp a people's his- tory uJ tlw Cnitcd States.\ With tht•st• words Julian Olf introduc- ed AI an Lomax, the noted folk song- l'olledor, at lust Tuesday's L'\'t•ning eOIIYol':tl ion. Voter Registration Receives SC Support This week the studt'nt eoU11t'il · pa~>><ed a motion made by John.-------------------------------, Folk Culture :\Ir. Lomax attempted to giYe a picture of AmPrican folk cui- tun• usin~ nanatin' and song:. H\ ~aitl that the folk revival in Ameri<\a ha;:; been a sudden thing. Tl•n yL•ars ago tht'i'l' WPre les,- than five hundred banjo picker~> in Ameriea, today there must be Interesting :.'\Iusic over a millioH. Audiences are ti1·- Dr. Curti~> described the Kox l'd of being- audienees. work as a \'ery interl'stin~ pieee When asked what the mo~>t of work, containing an important t·onunnnly sunk folk song- in musical 8Urprise. The ('Ollt'erto is America is, the aurlience was con- strongly melotlic, with a first tinuosly \\Tong. Lomat named movenwnt which slips, after a \ThP l<'rog Went A'Cortin'.\ It displaced l'adenza, into an almost l'xpresses the melting- ]Jot of I hlues-like passage. The slow Ameri<\an l'UltUll'. In :>Peond place mo\·ement !s describ.etl as being lw named \Barbara Allen\ as <l~p and mtl·ospectrve and the \ ... tlw gTeat ballad of frigid- 1 last movemeut dis]Jlays adven- it~·.\ I turous rhythmie passages. The __ -~~·o_r_l~~~~_ued _o~I'_age _ fi) _ . ____ -~<_?o~!inu~~ on Page _5 ) ____ _ Jazz Weekend Features Dizzy Gillespie Concert \DIZ\ Bee kerman to support a fund-, rai~>ing drive. Tlw puqJost• of this driw is to help defer the ex-! penses of tlw students g-oing to i North Carolina to hPip with voter registration. Thr('{• Cnion Collegp students and Prof. Bruce Cle-, nwntc:, of thl' faeul ty, are going I to ~orth Carolina in eonjunetion with the ~ational Student YWC' A votL'I' I{egistration Drive. Purpose Explained J Vietor Fazio, a nwmht>r uf lht> · L'nion College Civil Rights Cum-[ mittee, explained the purpose of this trip, nwntioning that thi~ I is one of the mo1•e conservative I efforts in the eivil rights move- ml'nt. The ~>tudents w.ill visit: with :-\egro families in thE' urhan: an•a:< of Raleigh, ~. L'. and ask' \\ hether m· not the~· have regis- 1 tered to \·ote. They will investi- I gate the opposition: if any, \\·hich I ~egroes han' received in their I t•ffort~ to vot<> ant! this informa-: tion will lu:' com piled and turned; over to organizations working on. civil rights in the area. 1 Conservative Organization Da,·id Berenson pointed out 1 that the YWt 'A i8 a relutin•ly t•onset'\'ati\'P org-anization ami I that this is n•flet'lt•d in th~ nature 1 of this program. It invoh·es no t!emunstrat ions or L'lllutional ae-: tivities of any ,.;ort. Instt•ad, it! will he a ver;.; business-like tripl and those :;tudenls participating II will n•t•t•i\P training beforehand. Mr. Berenson fl'lt that ::;inre this is ont• of t.he gTeat moral (}UPS-~ tions of tlw day, it was the Coun- cil's <luty to gi\'1• its support to I tht> motion. :\lore Than Chil !{ights Ivens LeFlore l'mphusizPti that i the voter re~istration drive em- I braced much morp than just eivil rights. A situation exists in whieh Americans are being prevented from exercising· their right to vote. He remindt><l the couneil lhat this i~ not a situation of :-\ ortherners meddling in South- Prn affairs. It is a case of Ameri- cans aiding- other Americans in safeguarding an important demo- eralic privilege. · The motim1 was passPd hy a I \'Ole of 21-:J. It Jll'O\'idt>>: [OJ' Se\\- 1 Pral coin boxes and E'Xplanatory poste1·s to he placC'd in sPVE'ral In- Jazz \H'Pkl•nd will feature a i ternities which <leriderl to go cations around campus. Another eoneert hy Dizzr GillespiE' on ahead with the project after the provision in the motion was that Satunla~·, :\1arch :21, at 8:00 P.M. I use of Memorial Field House was Lawton Monison, PresidPnt of I i11 :Memorial Chap!'!. Tickets cost \·etoed. Shaughnessy hall in Sche- the Student Body, writP an open I $2.50 p!'l' person and will he nectady has been engag-ed and a letter to thf.' college community I availuhll' at dormitories, fraterni- hand has been hired. A shuttle explaining the purposes of the I lies, ar1<l the Sludenl Activities bus will be run between the cam- drh·e :mel emphasizing its import-1 1 o.ffice during the coming week. pus and the party. Tickets are ance. The funds collected will Off Campus Party available for everyone from the help defray the expenses of Mr.\ In addition, an off-campus presidents of the fraternities in- Clements and the students trav-. party will be held by eight fra·, (Continued on Page 5) I (Continued on Page 5) An Open Letter to the Student Body from Student Council President Lawton Morrison To Jiy Fellow Students: . Civil Higohts, the impending v.>ter registration trip by a con- tmgent from the college, and the Student Council obligation in this urgent moral problem have bt>en the particular concern of the Couneil for tht> past two llll'l'tings. On \V t>dtw::<day the Council endorsed the plans of :\II'. Clements and three L'nion Students in- tending· to tra\'el to Ralei~h, :-\.C. o\'el' Spring vacation to partic- ipate in the National Student YWCA Voter Registration Drive. Council action is in th: form .of endorsement and in support for the conduct of a fund dnve des1g-ned to help defray the costs of participation for the L'nion Group. In addition to placing col- lection posters at key places on the campus, the Council has man- dated me, as its President, to express explicitly the following opinions and points underlying the motion: 1) Civil Rig-hts is a. problem affecting- every citizen of the L'nited States, and, therefore, is an issue on which the Student Bodr and Faculty of Gnion College should take a stand. 2) The question of support for the voter registration action in this particular case is concerned not with parti~an action but with the most urgent moral pl'Oblem of our time. ' ~) Students and Faculty members alike are mged to demon- strate their support of the Civil Rights movement by contributing to thl' eoin boxes which an' plaeed on l'ampus. If money is collected in excess •>f that needed to aid with the expenses incurred by the L'nion g•t·oup through their participation th('f;e funds will be contributed to the ~ni~m College Civil Right~ Comnuttee, a non-tax-,.:upportl'tl or)!'amzatwn, for theit· activities and research. The Council proceeded delibPrately in its consideration of its action, and many points were discussed which are not reflected in the form of the final motion. One of the major of these is this: should the Student Council commit even the funds necessary for making posters for such a controversial action, when such funds arc from Student Tax. Anothet· equally important question is whether the. Student Council represents the feeling of the Student Body when It actt> to support any phase of the Civil Rights move- ment, or whether this is an issue which is better left to the con- science of individual:;. Some of the neg-ative votes for the motion were from members who rould not resolve these questions in their minds, although in consci!'nce the~· themselves fa\\Ored action in the Rights movement. A question concerning the pertinence of northern student participation in aff.airs concerning the moral conscience and legal sh·uctm:e of a reg10nal element arose. Civil Rights, particularly concernmg voter regi::~tration for a national election it was count- ert>d, is a <\Onstitutinnal. hl'tH'P national object of concern and action. These and smaller questions arc tmresolnd in the minds of some membet·s of the Council. The rt>sponse of students ancl faculty at thE' collPction boxes will pro:·ide a g-raphic demon~tration of the support or lack of support m the college commumty for this action. But the que:;tion remains, does the Union Colleg-e student stand in favor of Civil Rights, and, if so, what action, if any, should the rPpresentative student gove1:nment body take. ':vher; they have the opportunity to speak out Ill favor of the Ctvtl R1ghts movement, a movement \\'hich enjoys wide student support and activity? If ever your representatives on the Student Council were in need of an explicit statement of opinion from you, the students whom they repn·sent at:~ spokesmen for the Union Student, it is now. J. Lawton Morrison, Jr. President, Student Council

2 Guest Column: On Research By Professor Henry l\1. Butzel, Jr. Professor Henry M. Butzel of the department of biology is this week's contributor to the CONCORDIE!'ISIS guest column. Dr. Butzel is a specialist in biochemical geawtics. For more than twenty years I ha\'e been currying out a one-sided affair with the microsrup1c Pretu<:oan, Paramecium. Numerous times I have been asked why I delight in ~pending su much time and effort wrestling with the problem:; ·of a b~a;,l \\hose e(UllVmic importance is nil. l'artially in an,wer tv this yucstion I would like to make a few rummcHb upon the nature· uf biulugical resc·areh and its meaning. The Basic Quest ion The basic question really is, \Why do yuu carry out research, especially when it is done on your own time often at the expense of other more socially accepted practices?\ Here one comes close to attempting to define ~he type of mind found in scholars in any dis- cipline. There certainly must be a bit of the '\because it is there\ attitude of the mountain climbers, that is, the urge to know a bit of nature and to say you t:an control this mmuscule corner of the uni- verse. There is also in part the excitement of being able to say that of the thousands of workers who came before you, and the scores of thousands who are working today that I am the only one who knows this particular infommtion, and that I found it out for my- self. This is, after all, one's only uniqueness; others may be more famous, more brilliant, but fur the moment only I know how this particular situation \\'ul·ks. There is indeed. then a joy in communi- cating these !'e:.ults lu one':; peers, dther by writing for a scholarly journal or by simply discussing thb work with my colleagues. Other Reasons Another reason for doing research is the fact that most people may have a mind motivated by cmiosity. This may be channelled in different ways; one person may want to know why a certain histori- cal figure behaved as he did; another may want to know why certain times seem to produce ct::l'tain types of leaders. Some want to know more about the physical universe; others want to learn more about the living world about them. Research in any field brings satisfaction to the person doing the research. It is a type of mental exercise, and to most of us it is fun. Disciplines Different disciplines seem to attract different types of personali- ties, and different re::;earch approaches seem to be characteristic of different disciplines. The scientist tries, with varying degrees of success, to place himself outside his research situation and to be as objective as possible. He may be subjective in his choice of experi- mental material, and may even at times judiciously select. from his experimental data. ultimately, however, he must attempt to let the results speak for themselves in as objective way as possible. On the other hand a worker in the humanities often approaches his material very differently. A drama critic may try to be as sub- jective as possible, to relate what he is experiencing to the world as he sees it. A writer or an artist ultimately depends upon his per- sonal, subjective decisions to perform his craft. I propose that this is the real and only difference between the \two-cultures\ suggested by C. P. Snow. It is not the subject matter which divides these; rather it is the way in which two differently trained minds approach a problem. It is the difference between objectivity sought for by the scientist and subjectivity usually employed by others. Both result in creative acts; a great experiment can be as aesthetically pleasing to those trained to understand it as a great painting or a great novel. A Subjecth·e Process · The selection of research field or of a research problem is, as I have said, a subjective process even for the scientist. There appear to be two ways in which one may begin biological research. You may decide upon a problem which interests you and then use your knowledge to select that organism which seems best. suited to answer your questions. For example, if I wish to study genetics 1 would hardly choose elephants for experimental material. Apart from the problems of housing and feeding the experimental subjects (think for a moment of the Union College Campus inhabited by tens of thou- sands of elephants), the time for my study would be limited since the elephant's generation time is at least equal to mine and I would certainly never see the third generation. Naturally I turn to organ- isms with rapid generation time, and whose numbers I can easily contain in a laboratory. Another Reason Another reason for selecting a particular organism is that one tries to ask simple questions. By thi~ I do not mean necessarily easy questions, but simple questions to which straight-forward answers are expected. Almost all great experiments are alike in that the proper question was asked at the proper time of the proper system which alone could answer the problem posed by the investigator. A different approach to biological research is also possible. You may decide to select a single organism and to find out all you can about it in the hopes that mastery of one organism will tell you more about all others. You can then become an authority on some one form of life and then use it to illustrate a whole series of related problems common to other forms. Either approach is valid, and both in the hands of skilled in- vestigators can illuminate the world of man. For the ultimate goal of all liberal arts, and the liberating sciences is \know thyself.\ Only if we study all of the diversity of nature, whether it be man or protozoa, can we place ourselves properly in the scheme of things. Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 ~-· • Y T t t t t • t + t t t t t • t t t t i' t • tv T • vmv v v • y ¥\ v TTY v y 'f' v DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages II 8 • 120 JAY STREET + 4 4 A 4 4 • 4 4 4 4 A 4 4 4 4 .. .............._ ....... .._ 4 4 A 4 4 4 4~4 +A 4 4 4 +A ,1, 4 • • + 6 A Pictured above is Vidor Fazio with some of his fril'nds from the work camp. Student Views Two Communist Satellites The following article, reprint- 1 hosts. This meant getting up at ed fro!'l ~he W~LLISTON ~UL- i ~:00 a.m. and going to work by LETI~. Is written by \ tctor I 6 to escape the afternoon sun. It Fazio, '65. Fazio spent s everal also entailed stuffing ourselves weeks in Yugoslavia and in Czech- full of bread and stew four times oslovagia last summer in a work a day to appease our quickly camp program sponsored by the growing appetites. American Friends Service Corn- The Yugoslavian government mittee. was anxious to lecture its visi- When the United States Senate tors on the progress of the na- was debating the administration's' tion since it had been liberated foreign assistance proposals a· from the still resented German number of months ago, much of occupation troops. All the official the discussion centered. around our spokesmen of the State, usually relations with Eastern Europe. representing some workers group Clearly this section of the world, were convinced of the eventuai still an enigma for most of us, success of their ideal and were has become more complex. Each anxious to answer questions con- nation has taken on a particular cerning· their economic measures. viewpoint within the Communist When we questioned our hosts as spectrum. Through the auspices to their opinion on the justice of the American Friends Service meted out to the now imprisoned Committee of Philadelphia, I was Milovan Djilas, former Vice able to observe two extremes of President and author of The New Communist influence by taking Class and Conversations with part in international work camps Rtalin, or Tito's strange position in Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia. above the restraints of the new Joseph Broz, \Tito\ to his constitution, they became strange- people and the world, instituted ly uncommunicative. People of ru- the Unity-Fraternity highway raJ Serbia are unaware of much project in 1946 as a unifying that goes on in the world out- force for the youth of Yugoslav- side their villages. Our contacts ia's five repub'ics, Serbia, Croa- with local school teachers, Ortho- tia, Montenegro, Slovenia, and dox priests and other assorted Macedonia. Today the highway characters, who were able to nears completion, but the purpose speak our languages, gave us ac- remains the same. Yugoslavian cess to the best informed people nationalism is the government's in this area around Smederevo. goal as it attempts to break down They welcomed us into their the old ethnic loyalties among the homes as people who had helped young people. defeat Hitler and Mussolini and Tito's children, as they call showed their enthusiasm by fill- themselves in the patriotic songs ing us up with their best food and they sing while marching to and wine. Since only 10% to 15% of from their highway labor, spent the farms in Yugoslavia are eli- about six weeks last summer at rectly controlled by the State, seven large campsites south of the rural citizens still eat very Belgrade near the last unfinish- well in comparison to the urban ed stretches of the road. Organ- workers. ized into Brigades of about 200 This diverse and friendly na- young men and women, the stu- tion, where you may find pictures dents competed daily during their of Russian and American space seven-hour work day to improve travelers side by side on the walls thei1· norms and outshine their of the peasant cottages and cijs- competitors from other sections cover that the passions of hate of the camp. can be elicited only in regard to The International Brigade is a neighboring Albania, proved tu recent and rather unproductive he quite a contrast with my next appendage to the Unity-Frater- destination, Chechoslovakia. Un- nity Highway program. About 200 rler the regime of President An- youths from the West and West- tonin Novotony, Chechoslovakia ern leaning neutrals were placed can be remembered the most in one camp, and down the road, Stalinist of all the satellites loyal Eastern Bloc and neutral nations, to Moscow in the present ideo- more receptive to their point of logical battle with China. Only view, were encamped. Israelis recently has the atmosphere been and Indians could be found with slightly modetated and the first the Americans and the British. international work camp which I The Indonesians and the Arab attended was an example of the States were with the Poles and new tendency. Russians. Solutions to foreign Located in a resort region policy problems were thus easily south of Prague, which reminded solved by the Yugoslavian gov- me greatly of the northern sec- ernment. tion of the Connecticut Valley, Although the oppressive heat the camp was much more pleasant and the generally flabby condi- in its physical arrangements. A tion of the Western European river ran by the camp to provide youth kept our contrib~tion to us .with a continual ~ate_r supply our project (the excavatiOn of a whi~h was sadly lacking m Yugo., drainage ditch) to a minimum, we slavu~. Only 30 people took p~rt did go tht•ough much of the rou- in this Czech camp but ten dif· tine followed by our Yugoslav (Continued on Page 3) RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT DRUG SUNDRIES FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES NOTIONS BAR SUPPLIES POLYETHELENE CELLOPHANE NOVELTIES RENTALS: GLASSWARE DISHES SILVERWARE J. NOGEE & SONS, Inc. Successor to 5. MOMIS & SQN Established 1 188 WHOLESALE DISIRIBUTORS PAPER-PAPER BAGS STATIONERY - SCHOQL SUPPLIES Phone FR 4·4429 - 28,34 N. Broadway Schenectady 5, N. Y. STUDENT TRAVEL • College Tours • College Study Programs STUDENT & FACULTY GROUP TOURS Arranged at LOWEST PRICES Books No~ Open for Summer Vacations in Europe Schenectady Travel Bureau, Inc. Est. 1930 328 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. PHONE FR 7-8506 Agents For All leading Airlines- S.S. Companies - Railroads and Car Rental Cos. Friday, March 13, 1964 Friday, Ma Movie Review: Polish Filtn By Paul Sherwin In \Knife in the Water,\ a compelling and eloquent film, director:. Roman Polanski utilizes humor, mystery and some exciting photo-! graphic effects to create a deeply artistic work. It is a distinctly in-'. cisive movie that e~plores a gamut uf human emotions - luve, fear. hatred, vengeance, Jealousy, and sensual passions. \Knife in the Watc>r\ po!'<sc>ssc>~ a tanglc>d, intriguing plot \Yhicl~ starts off slowly, and c>ventually gains moq1c>ntum uNtil the denouc '· ment. One fine da~r, an cxpC'nsi\'(' cal' i~ b:llTC'Iing along a lonely~ Polish road. Suddenly, a solitary hitch-hiker loom::; directly in the· path of the onrushing car. After an abrupt :>top, the driver, a well- off, middlC'-aged sports writer, dashes from the wheel and begins l•· scold the youth. A glance from his beautiful young wife, seated in th~ car, who looks at him with cocker-spaniel eyes, changes thL; dl'lver's mind and he ushers the youth into the automobile. Immedi-' ately, it becomes evident that there is a conflict of similar personali-. ties developing. Each is confident in his abilities and continually· attempts to outdo the other through words and deeds. Personalty Conflict ~his .battle is the chie~ vehicle that is used in the film for ex- •· pressmg 1ts theme. The trw finally reaches a dock and the married couple begin to prepare their sail boat for a day-long excursion. As the yopth prepares to go back to .his hiking, the middle-aged man calls him back and offers to take h1m along on the boat. This seem- ingly generous action is obviously an attempt by the sports writer to overwhelming the youth, who ts well versed in the numerable pit- falls of life on land, with an entirely new and different world - the sea. The sea is symbolic of the luxurious, irresponsible life of the wealthy. The boat is c:quipped with everything from a stove to a supply of the finest wines. The youth, who always carries a switch- · blade with him, remarks that one needs a knife on the land to move straight ahead through the thicket, but adds that on the sea it is unnecessary. Attempting to exert his superiority, the husband barks· . out all sorts of orders which are intended to confound and subordinate I\ the young man. This conflict reaches a violent climax when the two men come to blows and the youth goes plunging into an unfriendly .. sea. Love Scene Ambassa<i Lodge has New Hamps dential prin· to Mi·. Ber the primat·~ c·vrJy, we J diet that : water's vob It actually ~ at 21,775 howe\'er, en in predictir: tory with 3 ernor Rock collect only 496) In pia< amazing vi· Lodge in c vote (33,52 ,]elegates fc tiunal Com important important o not this ups lora! suppo ~wing to L( A l Those wb Goldwater, Lodge's vic1 ly a \favor forget tha· Chase Smitl I>Or. In fact have beeR rather larg, coast area and Dover · protest aga fense MeN~ hacks at tl Shipyat:d. l these citief Lodge. Mrs. After a seri.es of plot-shifts the young man and the young woman get tog~ther whtle the unknowing husband is swimming around some- where m the water. The obvious follows. The lu::curious charms of the female star of \Knife in the Water\ are exposed to the viewet· throughou~ the film in a number of semi-revealing and revealing . poses. This adds to the emotional, as well as the aC'sthetic aspect:; of the movie. Meaning Of Title Tlw siguificance uf the title, \Knife in the Wate1.\ stems ft'OJli the struggles that take place on an expected pleasure trip. It be- comes ne~essary to cu.t through the web of human passions that an· smouldermg on the sail boat with a sharp, well directed knife. • only 2,812 state. Whil l'OUllt the p ite son\ vo .The. photog1:aphic t~chniques that are employed in the film are fascmatmg and Impressive. The composition of the black and white photography is truly superb which would have made it a worth-while experience to view the movie, even if it had lacked words or plot. Many of the scenes in the picture seemed to be almost \still\ photo- gra~hs. Whenev.er t~e .cinemato~rapher focuse~ on an appealing shot.. he hngered on It, g1vmg the viewer ample time to appreciate the '• artistic technique. ' Excellent Directing suggest th~ compelling triumph a's face. Last wee gested tha· of Pennsyl' \the obvim date.\ If th' mary illus think the contention. . Director Roman Polanski exhibits a large measure of talent as · d his characters take on life. It is indeed difficult for a creative artist ~~~:e kJ;['' in any medium, to enable his public to empathize with the char: · would be 1 acters whom he is portraying. The realization of this effect is the figure pron mark of the creative masterpiece. \Knife in the Water\ is in the ing at the opinion of this reviewer, a truly creative masterpiece, ·• Thus the t' \Knife in the Water\ was awarded the distinetion of being namerl together r \Best Film of 1964\by the Venice Film Festival. It has also been 50'/r of the nominated for ''Best Fo~·eign Language Film of the Year\ by the i anything el Academy Awards Committee. 1• New Hanip Th fi 1 satisfied wi e lm is presently playing at the Scotia Art Theater on : candidates. Mohaw~ Ayenue in S~otia and will remain there until Thursday. surely mov One thmg IS for certam - it is impossible to remain impassive to his 20 '1~ c such. ~-~ing work of dramatic artistry. rlemonstrat' D&J AUTO St.RVICE · ~ONE DAY SERVICE CAMPUS CLEANERS 1372 Union St. BRAKES - TUNE-UP WHEEL ALIGNMENT & BALANCE Dl 6-9644 All Work Done on Premises PICKUP AND DELIVERY 527 Noll St., Schenectady, N. Opp. Union College Phone EX 3-5472 RECORDS OF COMEDY - JAZZ - CLASSICAL - FOLK AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS TAPES AND RECORDS FOR RENTAL ON CLUB PLAN APEX MUSIC KORNER State St. at Corner of Broadway Phone FR 7-1112 Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian - American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. tism. Like pick up an

Guest Column: On Research Professor !lent') '1. Butz•.•l of tltt• dt•partmt•nt of biology is this IH.•t•k's t•untrihutur to thl' ('0\COHDIE\~IS gtll'st column. Dr. But~<•! i' a \JI<'t'ta!i-.t 111 htol'lh·llll<\al ).!t'ltl'lll'-... r.q· lll••l't.' th:l!l t\\t'l,t~ ~t·;u-. I lt:t'.\· ht•t•Jl t.:~L!Iying uut a ~~ne-~illed I afla11 \\ttl• til·· n,,,.,,,.,.,,i. J•,,:.:.:···'''· l'ar.·am•·t·mm. :-.;~lmt·rous timl'sl I h:tvt• !J,., 11 a:-k,·d why I .kl1~h: .~1 .']ll'lidtn~ ~\ t!llldJ t1nw and t'ffurt :\-lt ..... t:ing· ,,_~th t1:t Jl!··h:t·: ~ .. J: ~l lh :·.-t ._, h·~.-l' t'l'ullHtnit· itn~ortunce I ;, ttil. I':~1L:.!!~ ::. :.:. :. , 1 : .. t!:. 'i•;~.-t: .. n I ll<'llld likl· tv lllake a 'f,·\\\t·~·n:~r:c.·t~~-- ~•P· :. tf., !.~.::J11. :· b: .. !··~:,.-d lt ... t:~llt·h and it:-; lllP.aning.l~ I Tht• Ba,ie l!lll•,..tion i '1'1 L . . .. . \\'. ' I I - lt.' u~( ..... JL' qut·:-.~.~·tl lt.tli:O 1-. ·· 11~ 11u y1•U t.'a11y out te~earc 1, l'Spel'ially ll'h<·ll 1t j, d\\'' \It Y<>lll <>II r, tintt· oftvn at till' l'X\ensc of I I \ l'icturt>d aboH' is \'idor Fazin \ith sntnt• nf his frit•nd\' frnm tlH• ot ll'l' mole• :'liCial ~ :n·c•·ptc-d ptadin·~·:\ ll<·lL' olll' l'Oilll'\ dose to atll'mpting- tu ddin•· tht· ty pt· 111' lllind t'ounll in sl'holars in any dis- 11ork <'tliiiJl. L·iplinl'. ThL'I<' ,·,•rtainly IIJLJ-1 '\' a Lit .,( th .. '\lll'eause it is thl'n•\ Student Views Two attitudl' of the ll](IUJttain dimbl'tS, that i,;, th<· u1·g,• to know a. bit of natun• and t\ ~a\' \«U c:tlt , . .,lilt\! till~ llllltllsntlt• L'ttl\nl·r of thl' uui- l'l'I'Se. ThL'IL' i.\ ':tl~\ in pat t tht· l''l'ttl'ment uf bt>ing able to say that of the t}loU~and,.: of 1\'o ol'k•.·I'S ll'ltu <'Uilll' befon• you, and the \curl's of thuu,;and,.: 1Yh11 a1 ,. I':Pt kin:.; t\da\' that I am the only one who know,; thi:-: pa1Lindar ittr'ottnatioo~l, and that I found it out fui· my- ~elf. Thi\ i,;, aft .. r ~dl, \n\'s «tt!y Ulllt[Ut·ne:,;,;; other;.; may be more Communist Satellites famuu,;, lll<>ll' h1 il:i<tltl, uut l•·1· thl' n;umc•llt u11ly I knuw how this I Tlw following article, reprint- h<~sts. This lllL·ant g;l'lting up at paltit:ulut .-it~l:ttiult \lt>th.~. Ttll'lt :, iud .. l'd then a juy in eummuni-~Nl from the WILLISTO:S BI.'L- l:OU a.m. and going tu work by vating thL':'L' 1 ,.,u]t:; l\ .,1,,.·.- !J· •·1 -, ··itht·r by writing fur u ::;chularly LET I:\, b VI ritten by Victor ti to esnt)ll' the aftemuun su1 1 . It j\urnal or by ,;imply di-• u\i11~ thi.- ll•ll k with n;y ~·dlt•.ague~. Fazio, '6:;. Fazio spent s eH•ral also l'lttuiled stuffing· otn·sl'lw•s , I \\eeks in Yugoslavia and in Czech- lull of ili'L•ad and stell' four times Friday, March 13, 1964 Movie Review: Polish Filnt By l'<tul Sherwin In \Knife in tlH· 'A'at•·t·,\ a <'<>lll{ll'ilin~ :ttHI \'\'lli<'Jtt film, din·l't\ H.oman Polanski utiliz<'~ llllllllll', ltt~·stt·rr ;cud \\Ill<' <':'-.<'iting- phut•• g-t·nphte eff'l'l'b to l'l't•:tk a dl'<··pl~· at·tist;,. work. It is a distinl'tl\' itt cisive movie that t·xvlotl'S a gamut ttt' htunan L'ltlllti<>n.~ J.,n•, 'reu; hatred, vengl'Hltl'l', jPalou;.;y, and '''ll:'U:tl p:t,;~ion,.;. \Kilit't• in till' \\':1to·r\ !'\\'''\'''< :·t ~:t~l.:.J• d. inti igui11g p! .. t \1llic 1 ,;tarts orr sloll'ly. and ('l't•i:lll:dry g·a;l:- \'''\'''1\lllll\ tllrtil !ht· dt•Jltlllt mcnt. Onl' firw d:1y, :til vXjll'll~ivt· ,.a, i.- !uJJt·lill~ al<>llg· a !toil!'! 1 l'oli,-h road. Suddt•nll', :1 \\lit:1rv hitch-lt.ihr !llttlt:~ din·ctlv in th: path of till' ont·u:-:hing t'tll. .\ ft••t: :111 abrupt ;-.t••p, tlH• driHr: a II'Pll off, midt!IP-ag·t'd spot·t,; \l'l·it•·r. d:·J~h<·~ !'ro:n tlw ldll'l'l :·!ltd h .. gin,.; 1 scold tlw youth .. -\ g!allL't• i'I'~>JJI hi.~ IH':tUtiful v .. un~ w.ii'l· 0\c·atl•d it.. th~ l't:r, 1;·ho looks at lti111 ll'ith l't'l'kl'i-'}lani't·l ··~···s, l'l;angt·;:; th. dl'IVE'l' >' mmd and hl• usht•r;.; lltL• l't>Uth into tlH· antomobilt•, Immed: ateJy, it bl'Cllllll'S evidt•llt that tiH:n• 1:' :t n>n!Jict uf ,;inti!ar }ll'l':<Uilalt tics developing. Eaeh is l'nntidl•nt in his :11Jilitit•s and L'tliJtinuall·. • attPmpt~ to outdo tlw othn thr\ugh won!:-: and dPPd,.;. · l't•rsunalty Conflict Friday, Me .\ ntltassat l.odg-t• has . :\ l'W Halllp' dl'llt ial pri 11 to 7>1r. Bl'l 1 h\ pr·imnr: (til d\'' \\'l' .lid. tlt:tt \\~·tlt.•t\:- \'tJt It al'lually at :21 ,77;-, ill)\\'l'\'l'l', PI i1. pn·didit tot\' with :~ l'l l;t>l' nol'l ,·oti!L·l't only 1%) in pJa, ,.,mazing \' i LodgP , i.n _ .l l'o\l' t .l.l,a2 dt•Jp~·a(PS ft riunal ( 'on• llliiH>I'tant llllllltltallt l \\' this up> ioc:.tl supp< -\\ ing t\ I. .\ Ot Ill' I' ht•asons I oslo\agia last summer in a work a day to appeasl' out· quickly • \notlwr r~·a~llll ft.' I' dtti.n:.; n·::;l'al'l:.h i-; t},1~ fact that most peop}e I camp. progr~~l sponsore~ b)'. the g-rowing appetites. · This battle is the chil'f vl'itide that is u:-:l'd in the tiltH fur l'X prl'ssing its thenw. ThL· trio fin:tlly n·al'ht·:-: a t!t.•ek and the manil'o. <~ couple begin to prepare thl'ir ,;ail boat f\r a daj·-long· t•xcur::;ioll. A- the :youth prepal'l'\ to go bad; (11 hi\' hiking, lhl' middlt•-agt•d lila: ealls him back and offt-r~ t11 takt· hi111 :·tl<>ng on the buat. Thi,; :::;t·ell. ingly genet·ous tH'tion is ob1·i\usly· :111 :~tt<·n1pt by tllt' ~pllrts \Hilt·.· lU uverwlwlming t!H' youth. 11 Ito ts 11·,·ll I'O'Ist·d i11 tit•· numt•mltle }lit fulls of life on land, with an l'lltirdy nl'W and ditl't·rent world - th. sea. The sea is syml)()lil! of the luxurious, i1Tl':'!JOUsible life of th . wealthy. The buat i:; l'ljUipp<·d with l'\'l•rything from a :;tol'e to ;, ~ Those wl supply 0f' thc> finp,.;t \\'ilws. 'l'lw ~·nuth, whq :tlw:LYS can!l·s a switl'l: ,; .. !dll alet, ma\ ha\l' a llllltl! mulll:tl<'tl l11 l'lliiUStlV. 1ats may be dumnelled m .\mencan l·nends Sernce (om- Th,· Yugusb\iau go\<'lltlllL'IIt dill'~rt·ttL 11ay:-; <>II<' i'L\''\\ \\;~ \Ialit t•; k11uw 11·hy. <1 eertain hi~turi- mit.tl'l'. was an:-;ious to lecture its visi- blade with him, I'Pmark~ th<:t ntH· lll'l'd~ ;, knifP .\ tht• land to mo1, J.,,tJgl'·~ vil' straight :Lhead through till' thkh·t, hut add,; that on thP sl'a it i iv a \fa 1 .,JJ cal tigun· b,·ktltd ;,sill' tlld; :tll\tht·t lllay \\';\llt to know \.\'hy certain \Vhen the Cnitl'd States Senatl• ton; on tltt· prugl·t•ss of the na- timt·s \''t'lll t\ I\ .. dun· , <·lt;.in typ•·s uf ll':tdl'!S. Sonte want tu know \\as dl'hating tht• administration's 1 twn ~inl'e it had i>l'l'IJ liberated mon• about till' phy,;ic:tl uni1 .·1 :-l': \thl'l'~ want to lt•arn more about fon•ig-n as:;istant•t• propo,;als a, l'!om tht- still n•sl'nted Gt-r·man thl' li\·111g \lt>rld ab<>ut th•·n1. l~<'>'l'<Ut'h in any liPid ~ring;; ;;ati~fartion ltUillh·l'l' uf.nwnths ago, llllll'h of I o,·,·upation tn!ops. A}! thl' offieial to the IJt•rsolt d<>lllg tht· Jt·s•·:t~ch. It ,,_ a typt• \I mental t'X:Hclse, tlw dlsl'USSJOII l'l'lltered around our 1 \pokt·~rnt•n ot tlw State, usually unnecessary. Attempting to l'X<'It hi~ superiority, the husband Lark ·~ !'ulgd tha out all sorts of orders 1\'hich ttl'l' inkndL·d to l'\nJ'ound and :,;ubordinat•· 1 ha~e Smit the young man. This conflict l'eal'hl's a Vloll'nt dimax \1 ill'll the t\;. hor. In fal'f men come to blows and thl' ~·outh goes plunging- into an unfriendl· iJaVL• hl'en :md to n1ost of u-< tt i\ fun. ! relations with Ea:;tern Europe. ll'I'Jlresenting some \l'<>l'kt>rs ?:roup, IJbeiplint•s 1 <..'!early this section of the world., ll'l're convinced of the e\'entual sea. r.. rathl't' larg· Lov c Set' Ill' I) . I' ·' · .. . . . . I still an enigma for most of tiS sut•t·ess of theit· ide·tl ·md were 11 Pn·nt uJ,;t'IPilll<'~ ·'''l'lll Lo ;Lllran dlliL'Il'nt tvpes ot pl•r::;onalt-, h 1 1 F h · ' '. After a sel'i.e::; of plut-::;hil't::; the ~·oung man alld thl' young \l'ulll:IL ties, and di!l't•tt•nt n·-•·atch applt·:ll'h<•,; Sl'L'Ill to b,: characteri::;tic of as. tl'l'Ollll' more l'Unl]l ex ..• ar · ::nxt~>tls 1 \ ~llS\\'t'l' qUPstwns con- get together whtle the unknowing- husband is swinnni.ng around SOllll'· diffen•nt discivlim·~. T!J,. ~cil'ntist trio·~ with van·in\ de•rrees of n~twn .ha:,; t~k~n on a yartteul_ar i \': 1 • 11111 g· thl'tr e:·onomtc measurl's. where in the water. The obvious folloll's. Tlw luxuriou~ l'harms ,,: (I 1 1 · . · l · ' h · ' ,., '\ I \'Jewpomt w1thm the ( ommurnst I \\hen we <JUesttOned our hosts as h f - . . ~urcPss, to p lll'l' 11m-df .. ut:-:1de us n•st•a 1 ,. s1tuat10n and to be as t 1 . 1 1 th . t tl . . . h . • . · t e emale stat· of \Kmfe m the Watt>r\ are cxpo,;ed to tlw viL'\\'t·t llhjectil'e as po\siblP. lie ma\' J,, \ubjJ·L·ti\'l' in hi~ choil'l' of experi- SJt~'·tcll'Ul~l. ;roug-Fl . el auSsptt:es 0 t 1 1 etr t\ltlllltl<llll on t. e Jystlce.! throughout the film in a numbt>r uf st>mi-rev~•ali;1 ... mill n•\'l'aJin .. t , 1 . t .... 1 . 1 . .' t 1 . · 1 . · 1 1 t i' h' 1 o H' • ..,mencan nent s erYil'l'' ll'l' t'< nu o te now llll!Jl'tsone< , ]'h' II t 1 . 1 1 ,... . - men a Jll,\ tll.t, .tlH ma~ <'lt•n a tllll'>' JUlll'ltlUS y se el' rum ~~ i L' . ·'' f PIT 1 1 h'· 1 w· s :vi'! v· 0 .. 1 .. f . , . y· poses. t;.; a<< s o t lt' <•nwtwna, ;1,; \''I a;.; thP a•·-tlwtt<' a:-:pt'l'1· ,., •a:o;t area ;tnd Do\ t'l' protl'st ag:t fl'llSl' ;\[('~; hack~ at t :--;hipyanl. I rill'sl' C'itil•. L\d gl'. :\Irs expl'rinwnt:tl data. l itllna!t'!y, h<>lll'l\l'r Ill' must attempt to ll't:. un,unrtttt .~ .. , 11 ~ll' ,P 1 .~· . a., ·.~.~·'lll • Jl : 1 \• . 011 ~ 1 ~~ . 1 l't-J of tlw IIHtVit·. the n•sults ,:pp; 1 k t\r th<msP!I't•.-< irt \\ .. hj<·ctivl' ll':t\' as possiblt>. ,,t.ltl< to '.'hsu.H t110 cXtltmes.oll l.ll~Ident ,tnt! ,'tuthot o~ Ihe \~'\\ . . . • . ll umn.llln.tst tnfl.uenl'e hy takmg 1 <. htH;; and . ( ~mversat!Ons .\nth . On thy othl'l h:.tt:d a 1\o>l k•·t 111 th•· ln~n.lallllll'~ 11ltvn approaehes. pat·~ 111 Illte!·nattun~l work L'amp,;; ;-\lahn, or Ttto s .strangt• posttion; T!~c· s.g·utft,·.; 111 n· .,f til•· titk ... !,ntlt· 111 1 :\l· \\',~:,. 1 \ sll'lllS fror· :\lt>aning Of Tit!<· ~ts .matL•nal n:ry dttit·n•ntly. A dt anw en tic .may try to be as sub-! 111 ) ugoslana and Cz~choslovakl~·l ahoY~ th.e restramts of thP new' the sttu~·gle·; that take pbee un •m L·XIJl'L'tt·d plea,;un· trip. It bt Jt'ctt\'e a~ Pll!\Siblv !11 Jl•btv \I hal ht• t.' <'XPl'l'lt'lll'tng to the \\'Orld as! Jost>ph Br·oz, \T1tu\ to Ius· •·onstJtUtiUn, thev became strangl'- comes lll'<'<•ssarv to l'Ut thr, 1 ugh the \l'l·b of human pas,.;ions that ; 11 .. , he ;;ees 1t. :\. Wlltl'l· Pl' \\ :11 tt~t ultunatdv depl'nds upon hi::; per- rcuple and the world, instituted 1 1~· unt·ommunicative. People of ru- :;mouldel'ing· on· thl' sail boat with a :-:harp, , 1 ·..!1 dit.<'l'll'd knif, .. • .. n!y ~.XI~ ~tat<'. Whi n>UIIt till' I itP son'' Vl ,;ug·gt•st th eompelling ::;una!, subjL'l'tiVl' d··d,.;iuns to pl'.rft~rm hi~ e1:aft. I propose that this the Cnity-Fratt>rnity highway· ral Serbia are unawat·e of much i,; thl' !'Pal and on!\' dil!'t•H•nt·L· hl•twt•t•n the \t\\'o-rultures\ suggested projel't Ill 1\J.Ifi as a unifying that goes on in the world out- The photogravhic tcchniqut•,; that arc· L'lllPl\\'t•d in tlw tilm lit· by C. 1'. ~now. Ii i\ not tit•· subjLL't tnatlt·r whil'h divides these; flll'l'l' for the youth of Yugoslav- sidt• their villages. Our contacts fascinating and impn•s>'iVP. Thl' t•ompo,;ilion uf till' black and wllll'· tathPr it i,; lhl' \\a\ 111 11hil'l1 two ditl'l·n·ntlv trained mind,; <.tpproaeh ia'~ fin> rt-pub'ies, Serbia, C'n>a- with lm·al school tea('hers, Ot·tho- photography is truly superb \\'hieh \lt~Uid haw n~:idt• it a 11orth \lhi! a probll•m. It i~ tlil' difl't·n·nn· lwt\H'Pll objl:l'ti,·ity sought for by the tia, :\Iontl'm•gTo, Slovenia, and dox priests and other assorted experience to view the movie, t•ven if it had Ltd<l'd \'\I d,- or pl\' srit·ntist and ,..ubjL·l'tivity u~wdly o·nlployc-d by others. Both result :\lal'l•donia. Today the highway 1 l'haractl'rs, who were ahll' tu Many of the scenes in t~c pictUl'l' ~l'l'llll'd to lw aln~\st \~till\ phot• in neati\·L· al'b; a g1vat '''JH·tintt·nt ··an hl' a,; aesthl'tkally pleasing m·ar·s l'tilllplt•tion, but the put·posl'l :l]it•ak our· languagt-s, gave us ac- grap.hs. Whenpv.er t~c ,C'llll'lllatographl·r fol'n.~ed o11 ::n appl'a!in:.; \h\: to tho,;p traint•d t\ undt·t,;t:Lnd it a:l a ;!ll''lt painting or a gn•at novel. l't>lllains tlw saml'. Yugosla\'ian t'P:ltl tu the best informed people he hngert•d on It, gn·lng- tlw Vil'Wl'l' ampiP tint•· \\ appn•t·i:tt•· tl:• t nationalism is thl' g·o\'Pl'Imll'nt's in this arl'a around Smedercvo. arti~tic techniqtw. g\oal as it attemptH to bn•ak down Thl'y \H·Icomt•d us into their Excl'llt•nt llin•ctin~ The ~' kcti .. tJ ,[ n·-•·<uvh tidd nt \f a n·~l':tl'('h proLil·m i::;, as tlw old l'thnil' loyaltil·~ among tht> home~ as peopll' who had helped Dinctor Homv.n l'olanski L·xhibib a la1gc· nH·a~Ull' ,f talL·ltt ,, young people. 1 <iPft•at Hitlt>t' and Mussolini and his characters take on lif<•, It i~ indl'l'd difficult fot· a C't, ati\·,, art is· <f triumph a;; Last ll'et l.!·•·st l'd tha · ,f l't•nnsvl \till· oh\'io t!atl'.\ If th marv illu~ ~hink thP o'lllltl'lltion. , •·in•d I 7', rhan :\h. would lw figUI'l' prlll ing at the have said, a ,;nbj<l'l ivl' pt \''''\' l'H'Il fn1· t ht> \'iL·ntist. Thet·e appear to bl• two way:- i11 which onl' may lwgin biological resem·rh. You may del'id<· up« it ;~ p1 .,!JJL'IIl 11 hich i11to n·sts you and then use your knoii'IL·dgL· t<> sl'kl't that ot g-ani:-:m 1vhil'h ~L'L'lllS bl'~t suited to answpr yuur lJliP\tion For l'X:unpk, tf I ,,·i~h to study gl'netics [ would hardly chon:'<' dl·phant,; for l'XJI<'I inll'nt:d nwtPrial. Apart fi'Om the lJI'OO]ems of htJUSilll-': and ft•,·ding till' l'X}Jel irnenta] suojl'l'ts (think for a lll<lllll'llt of thL· { 'nion l 'ollqw <'ampLl>' inhabitt-d ltv tens of thou- ,.;antls of ell'phallt~J. tlw tinlt' f11r my study 1\'ould be limited since the elephant',; gt'lll'l'alion tinH· i,; at h·:l:'t equal t11 mine anti I would l't'ltainly nev .. r ~,.,. tht· thitd gt·n<·t:ttion. :\aturall:; I turn ttJ organ- bms with l<lpid gt·lll'l':t•i .. r. tillH', and \lho-<' nutnbi'J:i I mn ea:'ily l'tJ!ltain in :t l:.tbllltttory. Tito's children, a~ tlwy call showed their l'nthusiasm by fill- in an:,· mt•dium, to l'llaldt· hi:-: pultli•· to t•ntpathizl' \l'lth thl' cluu tlH'Ill:>l'l\'l•S in tlw patl'iotie song-;; I inJ!· us up with their best food and acters whom he is portraying. Tht· tt·:dization , ,f this l'fl'l'l'l '\ th· tlwy ,;ing· whilt• marching tu and witw. Sinr·e only 10'; to 15~( of mark of the crcutiv\ mastt·rpit•t'l', \Knifl· 111 the Wat•·J\ ~,, in tL•· f1·om tlwir highway laho1-, ,;pent I tlw fanm; in Yugoslavia arP lli- opinion of this reviewvr, a trul~· crvati\<' ma\tt·tpil'l'<'. about six Wl'l'ks last summer at l'l'!'tly contmlled hy the State, e Thus the t . \nutht•r [{pastm AnothPr n·a~\ll f,r \\l•·•·tm~· :t Jnrticular organism IS thnt onl' tril's to ask Sllllpll· qut·>'tl\it~. By tl11- I clo not nwan nerl'ssarily easy quc~tions, hut ~i 111ple qu<'~tl.<>n\' to 1\'hich :;traig-ht-forward answers are PXpt•t·t .. d. Al.nwst :til ~n·at P:'-.pl•rinJl•ntH are alike in that the propPr qut>stinn \\'a>' a..-k,·d at th\ pto}Jl'l' timl' of the proper system whit-h alom• could an:<wt·r till' pr\blt•m po>'Pd by tlw investigator. A ditl'l'lt·nt apjll<>:lt'h t\ bin]ogkal ll'Sl'arch i,.; also possible. You may decide to ~l'h·<·t a \'in1.d•· tll'J.('tmism und to find out all you can about it in the hopL'>' that ma,;t .. ry of one organism will tell you more about all others. Yuu can th•·tt bt·l·ome an authority on s<Jme one fol'lll of !if,. and tlll'n u,-,. it t•> illu~trate a whole ~Pries of related }JI'IIhll'llb l'O>IIlll1tilt In tilh<·J f<>lll\. Eitlwr apJlln:td1 is valid, and both in the hand,; of skilled in- Yestig-atnr;.; can illuminall' th•· wol'ld of man. For the ultimate goal nf all libt>ral arts. and tlw libt·rating science:< is \knO\.v thyself.\ Only if \1'<' :'tudy all of tlw di\' .. r~it~· of natun', \\'hether it be man or protozoa, can Wt· placl' our:'t·lv•·H propcl'ly in the scheme of things. Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 + T 't' 't' 't' T f T T ¥ '¥' T + 9 ¥ Y f 9 T T ¥ T + f f f ¥..,...,.....,..'+' T Y f T T T f ¥tTy tTY DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages I 18 - 120 JAY STREET Sl'll'll larg<• <':tlllpsite:; south of: till' rural dtizens still Pat \'Pr;.· ''Knife in the Wat .. t\ 11.1' ,l\\:tldl'd tlw di~tirwtinn .,f lwi!l\'!Wltl< Bl'!gnule nl'ar th1• last unfini~h-' \\'Pi! in comparison to tlw nl'lmn \Be~t Film nf l!lf;.j\by thl' \'t·nw<· Film Ft·~tival. It ha,; aG\ hPl\ ed stl't'tl'hl's \f thL• road. Organ- I wor·kt•rs. nominated fot' ''Bl'~t Fo~·l·ig-n Langua~l' Ftln1 .. j' tlw Yt·at\ by th· izetl into Brigadl'~ of about ~00: This dhl'ISl' and 1'1 it'IHI!y na-: At·.ademy Awards ( tllllll1ltll'l'. c voung- mt·n and women, tlll' stu.-' tion, wlwrP \'tlU m:n· find. pidt.tn•s The ftlm 1 ·,; 111 ·,.s,•rJtl\· jJI't\· 1 · 11 ., 1 tit -.: 1 · 1 \ 1 '1'1 t . I . . l . . I . .. . . . •- .. (. ,..... it {' I ('II il : I ll~H l'l' (I' dents ,·onLpett•d ':uly durll. 1 g' t wn·. of {usstal~ ant! .~llll'i'l<':ttl sp:t<'<' :\Iohawk A \'l'llUt• in Sl'\tia and II' ill J'l'main th<•t ,. untd ThursdH' se 1 ·~·n-hour work day to. tmpt·m:l', tr.avell·rs sldl' by sule on thl' wa!ls Out! thing is for <'Prtain _ it is intpo,.:,.;ibl\ tn lt·tnain impa;;,;i\(• i tht•lr r!orrns aiHI outslune t~ell i of thl' 11ea~ant eottap;e,; and d.is-, sul'h a moving \\'o.rk \f dralllatil' al'listt v . l'ompetltoi'S from otlwr sed10ns l'o\'t>l' that the pass tons of batt•: · • of the camp. •·an ill' elkitvd on!~· in n•ganl to' ~~~~~--~~- .~·~~-' The International Bl'igade is a' nt•ig-hbol'ing Albania, proved to i ~' n•t'l'lll and rathl'r unproductive i Itt• quite a contrast with my m•xt D&J AUTO SLRVICE i ONE DAY SERVICE r appendagl' to tlw Cnity-Frater- dPstination, ('hecho~lovakia. Cn- 1:. / c 0 nity Highway progTam. Ahout 200 de1·. the ,rcginw of President An- 1372 Union St. CAM pUS \ ~·ouths from thl' \Vest and West- tontn ::\m·otony, Chechoslovakia < ern !Paning neutrals wen• placed can hl' .l'l'llll'lllhered the most c- ... - E A- N- -E R-- s- ~ in one camp, and clown the roall, Stalinist of all the satellites loyal BRAKES _ TUNE-UP t Eastl'rn B!oe and tll'Utl'al nations, to Moscow in the present ideo- \ more rPeepti\'t• to their point of logieal hattll' with China. Only WHEEL ALIGNMENT All Work Done on Premises i view, wen• encampt>d. I~raelis l'el'ently has the atmosphere been and Indians eoult! !te fotind \1·ith .;lightly modl'ratl'd and the first thP Americans and thl' British. iutel'!lational work camp which I ThP I m!onesian~ and thl' A rah a t~ended was an exam pie of the States were with the Poll's and new tendency. Russians. Solutions to foreign Loeated in a resort region policy problems were thus easily :-:outh of Prague, which reminded soh·ec! hv tlw Yugoslavian g·ov- me greatly of the northern sec- ernment: tion of the Connecticut Valley, Although thP oppressive heat the camp was much more pleasant and the generally flabby concli- in its physical arrangements. A tion of the Western European ril·er ran by the camp to provide youth kept our contrilll;tion to us .with a continual ':\ate.r supply our project (the excavatiOn of a wh1c.h was sadly lackmg m Yugo- dr·ainage diteh) to a minimum, we ~lav1~. O.nly 30 people took PB;rt did go through much of the rou- II• thiS Czech camp but ten dlf- ti.ne followed by our Yugosla\' (Continued on Page 3) RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES BAR SUPPLIES POLYETHELENE CELLOPHANE DRUG SUNDRIES NOTIONS NOVELTIES RENTALS: GLASSWARE DISHES SILVERWARE J. NOGEE & SONS, Inc. Successor to S. MOI!RtS & SON Established 18S8 WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS PAPER-PAPER BAGS STATIONERY- SCHOOL SUPPLIES Phone FR 4-4429 - 28-34 N. Broadway STUDENT TRAVEL • College Tours • College Study Programs STUDENT & FACULTY GROUP TOURS Arranged at LOWEST PRICES Books Now Open for Summer Vacations in Europe Schenectady Travel Bureau, Inc. Est. 1930 328 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. PHONE FR 7-8506 & BALANCE PICKUP AND DELIVERY 527 Noll St., Schenectady, N. Y. Dl 6-9644 Opp. Union College Phone EX 3-5472 RECORDS OF COMEDY - JAZZ - ClASSICAL AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS TAPES AND RECORDS FOR RENTAL ON CLUB PLAN FOLK APEX MUSIC KORNER State St. at Corner of Broadway Phone FR 7-1112 Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian • American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA I i ) ) 't 0 l. ~ I Schenectady 5, N, Y. r. A, ,I, 4 A 4 4 ,1, A-....6..~..1,..~4-~~...L...J..A.. .... ...L.....L~.Io.-.....,L.,L..i.. .... ~.A..t... .............. ,4, .4. .J. .4. 4 f A 4 ~ , _______________ ..:. Agents Far All Leading Airlines- S.S. Companies - Railroads and Car Rental Cos. 4'4''44444444+4•+++*.1..4 Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. t· lo>gt'lhl'l' I .\ttl' ( of the '' nyth ing e :\<'II' l!amJ :<at isfiPd \\' candidates. ,u,t•lv mm his ~0'; < dPmonst rat ti~m. Like pick up an [n

Sherwin director:. photo-! in-! love, fear,. Friday, March 13, 1964 The Political Scene: Map For The Maze By Alon Jefft·ey Views ... (Continued from Page 2) ferent nations were represented, and all made long lasting con- tacts over a month's time. Since the ycmth organization was high- ly sensitive to our criticisms dur- ing their first venture in work Ambassador Henry Cabot the National Convention when camping:, we were happy to find Lodge has completely swept the many of those pledged to him that our duties became less and New Hampshire Republican presi- are well-known names in New less each day. Those of us who dential primary. If we hark hack Hampshire politics (former Gov- had \slaved\ in other camps to Mr. Berenson's comments on! ernor Hugh Gregg and former actual'ly had feelings of guilt. · the primary in last week's Con-! Congressman Pet·kins Bass) illus- Many Eastern Europeans in the plot \·hirl~ .:unly, we find that he did pre-: trates that the clcdorate \\\as less Czech camp were unaule to speak the denouc : did that Senator Barry Gold- 1 than enthused u\·er hi~ candidacy. uny western language. Among' ng a lonely water's vote would fall to 2sr:.' Similiarly, Goldwater failed tu them::;elve,;, Russian served as I in thl· It actw.t2ly dropped to about 23~; l garner enough VtJte~ to mak~ him the medium of communication but, I a well- at 21,715 votes. Mr .. Berenson, 1 appear an attractive cand1date. probably intentionally, the Com- begins 11· howe\'er 1 e_ntirel:~o· missed the bo.at I He did not even pull as many munist and capitalist youth were seated in in prediCtmg a Rockefeller VIC- votes as the late Senator Styles unable to discuss world problems thl: tory with 33~~ of the vote. Gov· Bridge's widow did when she un- with each other. Only when of- le. Immedi-: ernor Rockefeller was able to successfully ran for her hus- ficial interpreters were present personali- · collect only 20';( of the vote (19,- ):land's Senate seat two years ago. were we able to converse on ser- contimlally ' 496) in placing a poor third. The During that primary she gather- ious topics. We were always for ex- the married As c-aged man This seem- writer pit- the life of the stove to a a switch· to move sea it is barks ·., subordinate I· the two unfriendly ... woman some- charms of the viewe1 ' d revealing · etic aspect; amazing victory of Ambassador ed the strong conservative vote skeptical about the coloring of Lodge in capturing 35'/r of the in picking up '29,000 votes. Gold- our words in the translations. vote (33,521) and aH 14 of the water received only 22,000 and The Czechs tried to answer each ~lelegates for the Republican Na-. Mrs. Bridges was pledged to him question we asked very frankly. tiona! Convention poses several as a delegate. Even Senator Nor- Even the most embarrassing ques- important questions. The most ris Cotton failed to win a dele- tions were given some reply, of- important of these is whether or gate's seat pledged to Goldwater. ten not to the point. When asked not this upset reflected more than In fact, the Goldwater camp was why Western journals (except !oral support and hPnce a real filled with such notables as the The Daily Worker, etc.) couldn't. ~wing to Lodge. Speaker of the New Hampshire be purchased in Prague, the • ? House and the President of the Czechs replied that anyone who A Favorite Son· Senate. On the other hand, none wished access to this information Those who suggest (Berenson, of the delegates pledged to Lodge could sign up for it at the Uni- Guldwater, and Rockefeller) that were well-lmO\\'ll, experienced versitr library. It was obviously Lodge's victory represents mere- politicians; yet, all 14. were elect- not a common practice among the ]y a \favorite son\ vote perhaps eel. students, few of whom could read forget that Senator Margaret Role of Foreign Affairs English. Chase Smith is also a close neigh- The primary outcome may also Although we were treated very bor. In fact, Senator Smith could · d' t th 1 h' h f · cout·teously by our hosts, shown t d d m 1ca e e ro e w IC ore1gn have been expec e to raw a ff · · 1 · h · many local po1'nts of 1'nterest, l t f th S a au·s IS to pay m t e presi- rather arge vo e rom e · ea- d t' 1 B · 1· L d and lrept I'n what passes for lux- d P t th en 1a race. y p1ccmg o ge ' coast area aroun or smou N' · · d' ur·y dui'I'ng our vi'si't to Prague, f h t over 1xon as a wnte-m can I- a nd Dover because o er s rong d h h d \'e ne,·er felt warmly \'elcomed · s t f D ate, t e voters may ave in i- \ \ protest agamst ecre ary o e- cated their interest in the situ- outside our own group. The aver- fense McNamara's proposed cut- ation abroad. It may well be age Czech seems quite suspicious hacks at the Portsmouth Naval h h'l of the Westerner. Shipyal.ld. However, the vote of wort w 1 e to watch for a shift these cities went primarily to by Goldwater and/or Rockefeller Valentina Tereshkova, the fe- Loc!ge. Mrs. Smith, indeed, polled in campaign strategy to one male cosmonaut of the Soviet Un- • only 2,812 votes in the whole which emphasizes foreign affairs. ion, was making a triumphant state. While this does not dis- Such a shift would obviously hurt visit to Prague during our week rount the possibility of a \favor- Goldwater, whose views on the there. Russian and Czechoslo- ite son\ vote for Lodge, it does United Nations are far from the vakian flags hung from every suggest .that it may not be as mainstream of American think- staff, and throngs in King Wen- compelling an explanation of his ing. If such a shift in strategy ceslas Square attested to the triumph a's it appears on the sur- occurs, it may well result in solidarity of the Communist stems fron, It be- that an· '1- nife. · film are face. Lodge entering the campaign ac- states. There is no question in and white worth-while ¢ rds or plot. photo- shot .. the i•. talent a:: ative artist. the char- 1 ect is th~ is in th~ Last week Mr. Berenson sug- gested that Governor Scranton of Pennsylvania appeared to be \the obvious Republican candi- date.\ If the New Hampshire pri- mary illustrates anything, we think the results support this contention. Richard Nixon re- ceived 17'7c of the vote (2% more than Mr. Berenson suggested would be necessary for him to figure prominently in the ballot- ing at the National Convention). ·• Thus the two write-in candidates named together received better than also been •iO'/r of the vote. This, more than by the i anything else, suggests that the l• New Hampshire voters were not · satisfied with any of the declared Theater on : eandidates. While Rockefeller ThursdaJ·· surely moved up on Goldwater, tu his 20% of the vote does not Premises LIVERY ady, N. ER St. demonstrate any great magne- tism. Likewise, his failure to pick up any of the delegates to SAVE ON OWN BRANDS! liquor Store 511 UNION ST. EX 3-3111 EX 3-3110 tively since foreign affairs is his my mind that life in Czechoslo- strong point. vakia, although it may be mate- These facts can scarcely fail to rially better, is still quite oppres- indicate that, while both Rocke- sive. The youth seem quite ready feller and Goldwater campaigned to put up with a slowly enlarg- actively and had the state's Re- ing political dialogue, if they publican bigwigs pledged to them, can continue to gain stili higher they were resoundingly rejected. standards of living. Revolt is out The rather large vote received of the question, if it is ever even by Nixon (who did not have as contemplated. large or as active a group cam- The generally rewarding sum- paigning for him - or even mer in these two vastly different pledged delegates) does indicate Communist nations was marred that the New Hampshire primary only when I began to realize that resulted not so much in selecting those of my generation were usu- a candidate but in rejecting two. ally dedicated to their systems Primaries Ahead to an extent at least as great as Ambassador Lodge has not as we American youth are to ours. yet indicated that he plans to l\e- Growing up under totalitarian turn to the United States and Fascist occupations and postwar campaign actively for the nom- turmoil, these people have never known a life of personal free- ination. Regardless of whether or dom. Often parents, in their zeal not he does, the Oregon and Cali- to see their children progress in fornia primaries loom ahead as school WOl'k, seem to neglect to the real tests for the candidates. instill the values the West seeks We predict that a close vote in to maintain. The job of inform- either of these (more likely the ing these people of our methods Oregon) would result in the nom- of attaining a high standard of ination of Scranton or perhaps, living bY democratic methods although less likely, Nixon. On seems presently overwhelming. the other hand, should Lodge prove to be the clear choice in either of these primaries, he may well become the nominee. If any other candidate emerges as the clear choice, a deadlock at the convention would probably result in the nomination of Scranton or Nixon. Until Lodge actively campaigns or withdraws, we can do little more than suggest these alternatives. However, we can, with considerable confidence, as\ sert that neither Goldwater nor Rockefeller has thus far dem- onstrated sufficient attraction to be the Republican nominee for the 1964 presidential election. RITZ REST AU RANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featurinq: HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties - Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWtiNG LANES ...... Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES 3 Highlights of Wingate~s Pro.ductions During His Ten Years as Director GOOD LUCK GIFF TWELVE ANGRY MEN this year's spring production of the Mounte- banks and the final play to be directed by Gilford Wingate. This play has been adapted fl·om the original television and motion picture versions. ·······························~··············· DIAMANTE'S Enjoy our Fi.ne Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOTT ST. OPEN DAILY 1 0 TO 3 A.M. - SUNDAYS 5 P .M.-3 A.M. •¥¥¥9¥f¥+t¥Yi¥TTVTTfYT¥¥TTTYTTYfYTVTt¥TV¥fT¥Yt+ UNION INN· 517 UNION STREET SEASON IN THE SUN-one of the earlier productions directed by Prof. Wingate. P ANTEGLEIZE, one in a series of avant-garde plays which in- cluded WAITING FOR GODOT, THE ZOO STORY, and NO EXIT offered the college and commun- ity an opportunity to be exposed to contempora1·y theatre. Ofiout that last letter gou wrote ... don't you thin!< it's time they heard from you again? This time, get in touch the personal way ... with a telephone call to the folks at home. Telephoning is the next best thing to be· ing there. ®~~~ a!!!~h!~~!~~~h~!

13, 1964 Sherwin Friday, March 13, 1964 The Political Scene: Map For The Maze Views. • 0 (('o!ttinued from !'age ~J f•·rt>nt nations \l't'I'l' l'l']Jresl•ntl•d, and all mad<' long- lasting •·on- lad,; ovt·r a awnth's tinH•. Sil'lt'e tla· youth organization was high- , ly :>t•tlsiti\ <' to our !'riti<·isJn,; dHt'- 1--------------------------------....! ing tlwir f'ir,;t \l'lltun· in work film, din·l'to .-\111hassad\r IIPnry ('a hot till' :-.'atiuHa! ! ·, 11 , l'lltion whl'!l C'<llll)ling. W<' Wl'l'l' happy (.o fi.nd citlllg' phot•• [.odgt> has •·ontph•tt•ly swt•pt thl' lllally of thosp ph•dgPd to him' that our dutit·~ bt•<':tllll' il•s,; and di:;tin<·tl\' it< . :-.:,.,,. Halllpshirt> Ht·publi•·an pn·si- an• \l'l•ll-kno\\'!1 llallll'\ in :-.:,.w i<-ss <'a,·h day. Thosp of us who I~<H', 're 11 ; dt•IJtial prilH:tl').'. If w•· hark h:wk llanlp,;hin· politi•·s ('fool'llll'l' Gu\·- had \ il.1 otlwr ;·:nnps to Mr. BL'Il'IISull's I'II!HIIll'llb oil <'l'llOI' Hugh Grt>g'g- and fornwr a<'lu:dly had l<·l'ltngs of guilt. ~ ploot \lhic 1 ( ht• dl'Jltlllt •II~· a loJH•I ' in th: ·i Hr: a \n•ll nd ht·gin,; t fl', >ll'<lll•d iJ.. t•h:tllg'l';,i th ilt•, !111 med: ar pl'r,;unalJ t'<>ttlinuall:. e IIi<' prill!Hl'Y in la,;t \\'<'Pk's ('on- ( 'ong'l't'ssnwn l'Prkin,; Bassi ill us-, :\!any Ltstt•r!l Europt>:nt:; ill till' , u1dy. WI' l'i.nd that lw did pn•- trat1•s t~1at till' L'll'doJ_atl' \\·a;; ]e:;,, \'t.<Th cantp Wl'IL' unabll· tu spt•ak .iil'l that :-;,.Nator Ban,. (;old- t!~·'ll ~·tJ.hu,..•·<.l ••\'l'l' h1:> !'lll!d!da .. ~·., :•ll~ \\ ,.,t,·n 1 languagt·. Am 1111 g ,, <tll'l ·,.. \'ott' would fall to :;;,• •. :-illlllharly, (,old\\·att•r tadl•d to tLt•IJlsl'lV·•·~. Hu,;,.,ian SL'J'\'l•d a,; It ;l('tually dt·oppl•d to ahuut :::l' • garlll'l' l'lloug·h \'t•les to makl• him i till· nwdium of <·ommunil'atior1 but, at ::1,77;, ,.,.,(p,;, :\l1·. lkrenson, appl'a.r an attntl'\1\'l' c.andidatl· .. Jl!obably illt<·tltiwmlly, tlw ('om- 1 \\'\'l'\.L'I', Pill it·pj~· missed tlw boat H<• . ~~~~~.not. l'\.'t'l.l pull. as ~nany !llllltist and ... apitali,;t yot 1 th Wl'l'l'l it. pn·•_lkti.u.~ a ~{,\·kefl'!ler .\il'- \\tys :;s tl_l<· l,tt•·. St·n,ttor Styles I unai,J,. t .. , dJs<·u,;s \\'orld prubletns lt1JY w1tb .l.~ .' ul the votl'. (,o\'·, Bndge ~ w1do\\' dtd wlwn ~h•• un- with l'a..!J other. t Jnlv when uf- vlll\l. no .. keiL•llt>r ,,·as able to' suceessfully ra11 for ht>r hus-1 fll'ial itlll'l'prl'lc•rs w~n· present ~'\!kl'~ only ~0' • of tlw ,·~te ( l!l,- hatH.!',; St>natL• ,;L•at l\\'u yl•an; ago.; ll'l'rl' Wl' al,lP t\ 1 ·om·l'rsP 011 ser-, 1%) .'11 pla.cJilg a poor· thu·d. ThP, Durmg that primary s!Jp gather-~ ious topi .. s. \\'p w<•n• alwavs 1 ,,nwZlllJ.; netory. of ;~l;J.bas~atlor ~·d t.he. strong •·unsl·J·vatiYe vote sk<·ptit'al aiH•Ut tlw l'oloring ~f Lodgl', •.n •. eaptunng· .!;, • uf. tlw 11. pieklllg ~p ~H.OOO \'Otl•s. Gold- 1 <Jtll' words in till' tram;lations.' \'OtP ( .!.!,:>21) and all J.~ of t.Jw wall'!' l'l'<'l'I\'Pd on!~· :!:!,Otltl and· Tl11· ( 'zl'ch,; tt'il'd to allSWt>l' L>aeh! fil111 fur L'X· 3 d:•lpg·at<·~ fol' t~l' lh•puhlJcan I'; a- i l\lrs. HridgL•s was plt>dgt>d to him I <JUl•stiotl wt• aslwd \'t'rV franklv. 1 the lllat'l'h·•. twnal .. < om·t•ll;:o!1 J.lOSl'S .~t>\'Pr:.ll a:~. a .dd<•gat~··. En•n SPt.Jator :-Ior-I En•n tht• mos.t Pmbarn.t~::;illg quP~-. ·xcursiotl. A.· JliiJltll t,mt qttl sllllll~. TIH most 11s (ott on talll·d to Will a dl'IL•-. 11o11,.; Wl'l'L' gin·n somt• replv uf-' 1•·-ag<·d nw: uup\r~ant of tlw~P IS wlwtlwr ot· gat<:'s seat ph·dgPd to Guldwatt•J·.J lt'll 11ot to thl· point. When ~~ked! '!'hi,; s<·t.:n. ~,ut th1s upsL•t n·th•<'tt•d mon' than I.n lad, tlw Cold\\ ale!' camp \\'as; \\hy \\'•·stt•ll! juu!'llals (eXCl']Jt 1 purts 'nit<·. ,oc:.d suppurt. and h<'llt'l' :\ 1'1':11 t.illl•d with. ~uch notable,; as tht•, Till' !Jaily Wutkt·r, l·tc.) cuultlt 1 't I pit -\\ Jllg (II l.ud~t·. :-;pt·akvr o! \Itt• :-.'t•w Hampshire. bt• pun·hus~d ill Prague, till'' - th. H d tl I' 'd f h '' I 1 ..\ Favorite Son? . ouse an w rl'Sl ent o t e 1.. Zl'l' 1s rt>plit>d that anyone who, ifc uf th. S~natP. On thl• oth~r hand, none wishl•d ae<·ess to this information t ston! to '' ~ Thusl' whu ::;ugge,;t (Berenson, o.f till' dt•leg-att•s plt>dgt>d to LodgL• could sign up fo1· it at the Cni- :~~/t~\;~;<~~\ t;old\\ ale1: an,! Ruckefdll·t') that I\\\'':\ .. Wl'll-known, L'X]Jrrienced I Yt'rsit~· Ji!,rary. It was obvious!~· Lodge's \'!dory J·epresl'nb mere-, pohtJI'Jalls; ~·L'l, all 1.1 \\'Pre l'lt•et- not a eollllllllll pral'tiee among the ~L·a it i .,. . .. 1 I I Jsb:md b:tl·k iy a ' a\'t>I'Jh· son votl' per wps '''. stu 1 h·nt,.:, f,.,,. of' whom c·utlld t·ead 1 ~ futget . that Senator Margaret~ Holt' of' Foreign Affairs English. I ~ubordinut•· t J~:~~e Smith is also a l'lose twiii,·h-: , , . ill'n the t\~· i>or. In fad, Senat 01 . Smith could . I_lw jlt'II!Hli'Y outi'OillP may also .-\!though \\'l' \\'l'l't> trt>atL·d very n unfri<Cndl· han• !Jpen expect<•d to draw u lll.•!~<:atP. tlw roll' whic·h fordgn t·out·tpously hy ~>Ut' hoRl:<: shown' r:JtlH•J' brg'l' \'ole fi'Om the Sea- atta~r:; Is to play ~n .thl' presi- many lo•·.al pomts of mterest. <:· ,·nast art>a around Portsmouth dent!al •. rat'E'. By p1ek111g Lodg·e and kep~ 111 what p~sses for lux- :tnd Don'!' hecaus<' of' he!' strong o\'er ~ 1xon as a write-in candi- ur~· dunng our ns1t to Prague, pr 11 tpst ag: 1 inst Secretary of De- datl', the. \'o~e1·s may. haYe it!di- \\'l' ~ll'\·pr. felt warmly wl'lcomed t'•·nsl' ;>.I,·:-.'amara'~ proposed rut- <a~t·d then· Jlltl'l'Pst 1n tht> s1tu- outsl!!l' our own g-r·o~p. The .a~·er­ hal'ks at the Portsmouth Naval atwn al~road. It may well be a~e { Zl'l'h sePms qu1te suspJClOUs :-;hip\·anl. Ho\vevPr, the vote of Wolt!nvhtll• t\ watl'h fur a shift of the Westl'l'lll'l'. uung \HJlllal. SOilll'· charms ••: t l till' Vil'\\'t·J HI n•\'l'alin~ asp<'<'l· t hl'st: citil's went primarily tu !'Y (,oltlwa.tt•r and or Huckefeller \'alt·ntina Tert>shkova, the fe- Lodgl'. :.\lrs. Smith, indeed, polled 11 ~ • <'1lll11Hllgn. ,;tn~tl'g.y to. c.mt• mall• <'<~>'monaut of tlw Sovil'l l'n- • only ~.~1~ votp,; in tlw wholl' '; lnl'h l'llli_>I,wsJZL's tort'tp.·n atfmrs. ion, was making a triumphant ~tat<·. Whill• this dues not dis- ~ut·h a shift would ul.>nou:-;Jy hurt Yisit to l't·ag-up during our week sll'ms r 1 .\ 1 • , uunt tlw possihilit~· of a \favor- C~ol.dwat<'_I'• . whosp '\~•·ws on the tlwrl'. Russian and Czedwslo- tl'ip. ] t bt·· itP son\ vot•• for Lodge, it does C n!ted ::-.:atwn~ are ta_r from. the Yaldan flags hung from evt>ry ons that :ll\ J. ,;ug·gest that it may nol be as ~hamst_ream o! A!m'r!can thmk- staff, and throng·,; in King Wen- ,·nmpelling an explanation of his lllg. It s_Ul'h a shift Ill strate~y ceslas Square attested to the triumph as it appears on the sur- oeeurs, It !nay well re~ult m solidarity of thP Communist tlw film w · k and whir· worth \\hi! I) d~ Ill\ pin' phot• :;h11: Jli'P.-i:ttt·' tJ:· t fan' Lodge entermg the campatgn ac- states. There is 110 question in · tinly since fm·pign affairs is his my mind that life in Czechoslo- La~t we~k l\lt·. BPn•n;;on sug- strong point. vakia, although it may be mate- g .. stt•d that Governor Scranton Tl f t 1 f 'I riall'.· better, is still c 1 uite Ollpres- ·•f l't•nns\.·h·ania ap]>L'an•d to hl' wse ae s •~an scarrP Y UJ to -' I .IJ<!J·, .. ,t\ tll·tt \''111.1\ IJoth Rocke sin·. The \,·uuth seem quite read.\ \t IH· ohYious Republican eandi- \ ' ' ' ' ' · ·' datL•.\ If the Xt•w Hampshire pri- l't·ller and (;o!dwater eampaigned to put up with a slowly enlarg- man· illustrates an..,_·thino-, we aetin•ly and had the state's He- ing political dialogue, if they · \ puhli • I·,., ·1· · 1 l\'e 1 to tl can !'Ontinue to gain still hio-her ~hink tiH' results sUJll>oJ't this <'t.n \\' g,; P ec .... c 1em, .... thl .,. \\'\!' • t· s1JUtl .,,.11\'1'' l'\ · te 1 stundanls of lidno·. Re\'olt i,.; out ··\ntt·ntion. Hiehm·d :\'ixon re- · ' l <'. 1 \' _, ,Jec c • \ .. r talellt :. , ,. 1 ·, . .,, 1 1 ~,,, t' tl t (•>I, Til<• rath<·t· largl' vote reeeivt>d of the quPstion, if it is l'Vl'r even ' o H' vo ,. - I more I .,.. ( 1 I'd t l ('lllltt•llll>latPd. ·atiYt• arti><: -J than Mr. Ben•nson i:iUggested >~- ,,Jxon w 10 < 1 no mve us tlw l'hUJ· would ill' net•esi:iary for him to largl' or as actin• a gTOU]l cam- The gL•nerally rl'\\'arding sum- l'fl'vl'l ~~ th· figun• pr\minently ·in the ballot- paigning for him -- or e\·en mer in these two vastly different 1 .. i~ in t],,. ing; at the :-:a tiona! Com·l'ntion). plL•dgl'd d!'lt•gatPs) dill'S indiratL· Communist nations was marred e Thus the two write-in candidatl·,; that the Xl'\\' Hampshire primar~· only whL•n I began to rpulize that t\gl'lhl'J' rL't'l'i\'l•d ht•tter· than t'l'~ultl'd not \\ much in selecting those of my generation were usu- ;,o•; of the vote. This, 1\Hll'l' than a <·andidatl' hut in rl'jL•rting· two. ally dedic-ated to their systems !wing· nan1• · t~ al~') lH..'t'i 1'<11'\ hy th· anything el:-;l', ,uggests that the Primaries .\head I t•• an ••xtent at least as great as 0 :-.:,•w Hlimpshin• ,·otprs were not Ambassador Lodge has not as. \':'t> A.meriran youth are t~ 01~rs. ,.;ati,rfiPd with any of tht> dt>dat•ed yl't indicated that he plans to re- C!I'o\\:mg up u.nder totahtartan ThL•ntt·r ,., nllldidatt>s. \VhiiP Horkefellet· turn tu tlw United Statt>s and rasc·•s.t oceupatwns an•l postwar 111 ·~;~~~r::~:ti' \~'~ l'l.y 1 n!o\'l'tl up on c;oldwater.J ~·:unpaig·n acti\·ely for the nom- t.urm.Cld, the~L' pPoplt>. hm:e ne.ve: ,, Ins 20 , of tlw \'Cllt' does not Jnatton. !{pgarclless of wlwthet· or kno\\n a IJ!e of pe!sonal. f1ee dt>mon\t mtc> any g-reat magne- not lw does tlw Oregon and Cali- dam. 0 fte~1 pa1:ents, Ill their ze!li tism. Likewist•, his failun• to fol'llia prin~arws !oClm aheacl as I to see tl.le~t: c~:ldren prog_ress Ill pwk up an}· of the delegates to thP l'l'al tests for the candidatl's. ~< IH~ol \\OI k, seem to nt>glect to Premises tady, N. Y. l (I i [ I) 'l FR 7-1112 I •· i rant~ ·, e {, It St. · - ------- We pn•diet that a close vote in 111st!ll_the_ val~e,; t!1e Wes.t se~ks jt>ither of these (more likely the ~o ,.nuu~,tam., 1 h,e Job o! mfotm- Oregon 1 would result in the nom- tn.g the;;e. people _of om methods ination of Scranton or perhaps, of . attan11ng a htgh ~tundard of although It·~~ likely, Nixon. Onlli\·mg by <lenHH'ratic met.hods tlw other hand, should Lodge' Sl't'lllS presl'ntly OVL'I'\\'helmmg'. SAVE ON OWN BRANDS! liquor Store 511 UNION ST. EX 3-3111 EX 3-3110 prove to he the clear choice in I -------------- either of these primaries, he may ! ,,·pll hecom~ the nominee. If any i alternatiYt>s. Huwt>Yl'r, we can, I othPr l':tn.dJtlatP emergc>s a!' the 1 with 1 ·onsiderahle c-onfidencP, as~ elL'ar ('hOil'l', a dt>adlock at the sPit that neither Goldwater nor 1'1111\'l'lltion would probably result · Roekefeller has thus far dem- iJ, tlw nomination of Scranton or 1 11 nstrated suffieient attraction to Xixon.. Cntil . Lodge aetively h<· the Republiean nominee for eampa1gns Ol' Withdraws, we can the l!Hl.t presi<lential election. do little morl' than suggest these RITZ REST AU RANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featurinq: HOME STYLE IT ALlAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWLING LANES 3 Highlights of Wingate~s Productions During His Ten Years as Director THE .\PPLE. tlw 1963 i'lpring· production of the :Hountebanks, '' hich caused a controversy among the faculty and studt-nt body. GOOD LUCK GIFF TWELVE .\:\GRY :\lEX this yl'ar's spring production of the :\Iounte· banks and the final play to be direeted by Gifford Wingate. Tltis play has .been adapted from the original television and motion picture versiOns. r,......,...., ............................ ~...,.... ... 'r'V\\'1 .. ~,......,....,. ............. ~..,.....,...., •• f'r'V\\'1~r-r¥·~ ............ T,......,...., ................ ~~· : ........... ~ ............................ ~ •• ~ ••.. Enjoy our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOTT ST. OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M.- SUNDAYS 5 P.M.-3 A.M. .......... .............................. , ........ , ...... ~ ....-y 'f T 'f 'f 'f ¥ 'f '# f '¥' f T' 'f 'T 'f 'f ¥ '¥ 'f 'f 'f 'f 'f T' 'f ¥ T i' 'f 'f TV'¥ T 'f '¥ 'f 'T T 'f 't' f' T 'f + UNION INN SEASO~ J)>l' THE SUX-ont> of the t>arlier productions directed by Prof. \Vingatl'. PAXTEGLEIZE, one in a series of amnt-gardt- !Jlays which in- cludt•d WAITIXG FOH GODOT THE ZOO STORY, and :-.'0 EXI'l~ offered the college and commun- ity an ot>IJOrtunity to be exposed to contemporary thealrt.>. / n~out that last letter gou wrote ... don't you think 1t's time th~y h_eard from you again? Th1s t1me, get in touch the personal way ... wi-th a telephone call to the folks at home. Telephoning is the next best thing to be· ing there. '* New York Telephone -,-- You gel action when you tel!!phone

4 Qinurnr Publlshed Fridays during the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N. 'Y. Na· tional Advertising Representative: National Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative. 420 l\Iadison Ave .. N. Y. C. Eldltorial Office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, Sche· nectady Printing Company, 502 Bt·oadway, Enterel in the Sche· nectady Post Office as Second Class ~!ail Matter. Subscription 15c a •·uw: S3 a year delivered anywhere in the l'nltPd States. SENIOR BOARD LARRY HOROWITZ '65 .......•....•.... 346-BS95 . l\IARK OBE:-:ZINGER '65 ............. 393-9780 ........ Editor-in-Chief .............. llu5\iness 1\fanager !\!CHARD ERDOI\:S '6;; .................. 346·98~U .. . ....... :llanaging Editor ROBEJRT P. HOI•\~\:\IAX 'G6. DA YI D \'OLI<~I.\N 'ti<l ..... ROBEHT S. HOFI\:I!A:-: '6'• HIC'HARD Sl.liTON '66 ......... . 'VILLIA~I T. WINC\E ·~·I Larry Eisenberg '64 .. . :\larl< Strom '63 ......... . 'Yilliam I':aufftus • lili. . Arthur :\Iorgfln:nern 'fi6 .Arnold Katz '66 •....... l\lark Kasowitz 'tJt3 ......... . GlE'n Holzhauer '66 .. He-nr~r Rushme~·pr 'U6 Rlchard RPseh '66 ........... . :\like Spada!< '6 6 ..... . Fred Dill 'GL .......... . Rob<'rt Kleln ·uu .. Jeremy Jay !'au l '61.. .Al :\'ahmlas 'GG Puul Livim;:~ton 'til Hod Tullu~s · iiti . .............................. News Editor . ....... Sports Editor . ... .. .. ................................. Feature Editor . .......................................... Contributing Editor .... ................ . ............ ., ................. Ac1''iSet· Jt;NIOR BOARD ................... .!llal1e-Dp Editor . .. . ............ Photography Editor ....... AsHistant ~ews IiJditor ..... ........ ... . ...... Asf;istant ::\El\VS Editor ...................................... Ast:Jistant News Editor . ..................... Associa-te ~e,vs Editor .. Aasoriate News Editor ................ Asso<.'iate News ditor .......... Assistant Business Manager . .................... Assistant Sports Editor ... . ........................................... Cartoonist ...... :\atiunul Advc>rtising :Manager ................................... Proof Reader .... ARsistant News Editor <'ontdhuting Editor < 'ont-riUuting- gditor Civil Rights \We cannot be satisijed as long as the Negro in Mississippi can- not vote and the ~egro in ~E'W Yorl\ hl'lieves he has nothing for which to vote.\ Rev. Dt·. Martin Luther Ring at the March on Washington The Union campus has finally become enbroiled in the Civil Rights issue. The proceedings of the last two Student Council meetings reminds us of Mike Nichol's and Elaine May's comments on the situation several years ago. They expressed their delight that the Civil Rights problem was rearing its head \because civil rights is a moral issue and moral issues are so much more fun than REAL issues.\ The time has certainly come for the final and everlast- ing emancipation of the Negro. The battle cry of \NOW\ must be heeded. The obstacles ahead are as numerous as the one's that have been eleared. The fight is bound to get more, not less bitter as southern and northern die- hards put up their last ditch battles of opposition. The Concordiensis wholeheartedly supports the pro- posed fund raising drive. The conservative compromises that were necessary before any action could be taken speaks for itself as to how the majority of the council members feel about the problem. Registering to vote is of the utmost importance before any man can truly be called a citizen. We don't know what Mr. Prigmore can possibly be thinking about when he states in his letter (which appears on page 4) that the taking of this trip will not aid the \long run goal of freedom and democracy in the south.\ Sure it will be generations more before equality is more than a legal phrase; but it will take many trips during those generations if the goal is to be achieved. We are deeply disturbed about one point in Mr. Mor- rison's letter which appears on page one. He questions whether the Student Council represents the feeling of the student body on the Civil Rights issue. It sems to us that it is the responsibility of every elected council member to find out how the students feel on every important campus issue. It is a sad admission of negligence on the part of the council members that Morrison has made. One can only conclude that the council members haven't sounded out campus opinion on any of the matters that they have taken up. If this is the case, then they most certainly do not represent the student body and the current 1963-64 session must be termed a hoax. Goodby Gill To Gifford Wingate goes our thanks for many years of service above and beyond the call of duty. He labored, as do all Union professors, in a stifling atmosphere cre- ated by the administration. His difficulties with the com- pletion of the new theatre is a case in point. The new theatre chairs did not arrive by opening night and the Mountebanks had to make do without them. We wish him the best of everything at his new home in Texas. His shoes will not be easy to fill. Letters to the Editor To the Editor of Concordiensis: At the Student Council meeting on March 11th, the following mo- tion was passed, \That the Stu- dent Council (acting for the stu- dent body) support the action of Mr. Clements and three Union College students participating in the National Student YWCA Vot- er Registration Drive ... \ on a roll call vote with one regular member of the council and two proxies going on record as op- posed to the motion. many students who would refuse to have a Negro on their block- and the southern whites know this. Granted, voter registration is dramatic, but does it lead to equi- librium in the south \l When we can l10nestly show that we sup- port the long run goals of civil rights; we will all go wherever there is discrimination; until then, w·e should not give the opposition further justification for thinking these honest men are hypocritical. G. Daniel Prigmore, '65 To t.he Editor of Concordiensis: Your recent request for some bold new steps - any steps - forward by responsible parties at Union is in vain. Mter four years at this college, I have made sev- eral observations and conclusions: History Of Jazz: Dizzy Swings Out~.: (Continu e'ing with l . money will b ··ion Col1ege ( By T. I{. Krehbiel , tee in the r What's Dizzy Gillespie really descript snake charmer up to his ' body and fac like? I'll tell you this, he's dizzy hotel room to play a duet. . Joint 1 like a fox. His poking is like that man's a musician isn't he?\ The activi of Q.eorge Bernard .Shaw; he tells management didn't like the idea Committee 01 the truth. One of his favorite but the native bellboys we1·~ ies were ou1 closing bits is introducing the pretty pleased. When he was ask. meeting. Th members of his group and where ed about the racial difficulties among sever: they lived be- the United States, Dizzy simpl:v dty area. It fore coming to pointed to his integrated ban;! · 000 will be New York. He saying, \Watch them work to. years. f i n is h e:s up gether/' Not only was the · used to finar with, \• •. our racially integrated, but it also for faculty 11 drummer Rudy contained a female trombone · to show ther Collins, from a player, who made quite an im- ideas may he foreign country, pression in the Middle East coun. · Jresent prog Havana . , . tries where many women still th this th Mississippi. And wear veils. Iogue all te: I'm Dizzy Gil- tri-city area 1 Now we get to the most im· \\'estern stud espie, fro m t t f J hn B' k G Cheraw, South por an part o o . Ir s il- bility of h: lespie - the musician. When the · 1 ·esidence wl going to STAY · k d f' fl'om Cherwaw, South Carolina.\ upcommg wee en was ll'St pro. time among When Diz is horsing around posed to the Student Council, om area in the there are no sacred sows. \I'm member described Dizzy Gilles. . studies. This , 1 pie as \the greatest jazz into the ph sorry were ate,\ he will say t 1 · th Id'\ Th \but we just came from playing ~ pe P ayer Ill e wor · ese Council Scho benefit fQr the NAACP, B'nai sort of sweeping statements of· gram . B'rith, Ku Klux Klan, and the ten upset me, but this one is no Lac1 YWCA in the waiting room of the more an exaggeration than say. Ivens LeF bus terminal in Greenwood Mis· ing that Ty Cobb was a fair base the council c sissippi.\ • runner. Th.is opinion of Dizzy is tion into the shared by most musicians and gro students Dizzy was playing the Black- critics, too. Dizzy has made a Fazio mentic hawk in San F1·ancisco a year or habit of winning the Down Beat quiries had so ago and managed to upset Critics Poll and the Playboy All. the past ar things quite a bit. He reigned Stars' All Stars Poll. In the lat- members hac nightly in his Nigerian tribal ter, the musicians who won the the findings robes, escorting people in and out Playboy Readers' Poll vote in a the council sl of the club, answering the phone,. poll of their own to select the questions wi \Birdland and generally play- men they consider the top jazz rnent of the ing the role of the genial host. musicians. The results usually dent body r• In the early days of television he differ markedly from the selec-, Lawton Mor: threw a studio into a complete tions of the readers. fact that he uproar by simply poking his fin- Dizzy's melodic and especially Schmidt on ger at every button in sight while his rhythmic inventiveness are Schmidt tole asking innocently, \What's this unparalleled. He is one of the scholarship f for?\ t · 1 h b \'! 8 studet wo Jazzmen to p ay t e ossa , Gillespie isn't continually play- ing, however. On his first State Department s p on sore d tour (which was in fact the first State Department sponsored jazz band tour), he refused to play for a lawn party unless the children lining the walls outside were let in. \I came to play for all the people,\ said Diz. He took a non- nova hit ''Desafinado\ correctly were sent tc (the other isn't Stan Getz or 'ients even t1 Charlie Byrd). The others whn, heen formal] try, pick up the wrong harmon- no response ies from the original recording. Jwting ·with and even leave out the bridge or me in a po middle part of the tune. Dizz~· ,.,eholarships was, in fact, one of the very dents. first people to play bossa no\·a Skidmore- (Continued on Page 5) During the debate on this mo- tion, the prime mover, Mr. Beck- erman stated that a vote against this motion was a vote against civil rights. I must deny this em- phatically. Without elaboration it is fair to state that there are many aspects, sides, and angles to every problem. My reasons for voting against this motion were not based on petty issues such as who should bear the costs of \oak- tag and coffee cans,\ but on the moral commitment implied. I personally do not feel that a group of sincere northern stu- dents accompanied by well in- informed and able professors and ministers taking this trip are go\ ing· to aid the long-run goal of freedom and democracy in the South. Tradition is traditional at Union and as a consequence Union will always follow and never lead. The ;==============: defunct Davidson Calendar is a perfeet example. Whethe1· it was adequate or not is not my con- cern; all I know is that nothing has been proposed since, and we are back where we started, while others in education are experi- :\Iorrison c l''! Skidmore Cut ps I'rogr students in college care• years abro~ t·orps. It we standard PE t'Xcept that ity that th• send a colleJ! w.ith the stu gain college in conjunct\ l'nrps progr Since the time of the carpet- baggers, the southern white has not cared for the northerner's meddling in his problems. I grant that to get civil rights on the move it has been necessary for Americans from every part of the country to show the Negroes that we want equality for all. Civil rights is on the move. More has been done since the sit-ins than was done in the previous 90 years; nevertheless, it will take generations more before equality is more than a legal phrase. But there is more to this specific issue. The North is far from lily white in this issue. It is hypo- critical to say that all the stu- dents of Union College support voter registration in Raleigh, North Carolina, when there are menting and progressing. Mr. Crandall expressed one of the aims of our College well in his defense of fraternities. This aim is the education of a \gentle- man.\ The proper holding of one's beer glass, mode of dress, being gross and charming at the proper moments, are the essence of \cool.\ This, whether the trus- tees, Pl'esident, or faculty believe it or not, is the goal of the ma- jority of Union students. Self-re- straint, no socks, flat combed hair, and turtle neck tee shirts are vir- tues. Union College and the Nott Street Cemetery: Marlboro Coun- tl·y. I have developed an intense contempt for trivial tradition. I will not stop for red lights, shave, or be a pt!ppet shackled by the chains that Phoebus weaves. (Continued on Page 5) Campus Calendar Mareh 13-Faculty Bridge-Hale Hol.:j.se Faculty Lounge-S p.m. March 14-Invitational Track Meet-Field House-i2:00 noon, Fac.ulty Square Dance-Old Chapel-8:30 p.m. March 15-Lecture-Memorial Chapel-8:00 p.m.-sponsored by Campus Religious Council of Union College and the Syn- agogues of Schenectady. March 16-Air Fo1·ce Officers Training- School Selections Officer- Hale House Student Lounge-9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. Meet- ing-anyone interested in playing or managing this year's varsity of freshman tennis team-Alumni Gym-4:30p.m. Heads o:f' all activities-please .stop in the Student Activ- ities Office to check your membership list and to name the 1•ecipients of Activities Keys Awards for 1964. Applications for all types of :financial ail in 1964-65 will be available beginning Monday at the Office of Student Aid. Freshman Lacrosse Praetice-Field House-7-9 p.m. March 17-Pre-Medical Society-Dr. Melvin Hunvith of Cornell Medical College-Biology 205-7:30 p.m. Marine Corps-Hale House Student Lounge-10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. Faculty Colloquium-Professor Jonas-\American Isola- tionism\-4:00 p.m.~Faculty Lounge. March 18-Memorial Chapel Convocation-College Museum Con- c.er:t Series,.......Albany Symphony and Theodore Olaf, Vio- lmist--8:30 p.m. . March 20-Film Series-Mouse that R.oared\-7 and 9 p m- EE22. • , Registration for make-up tests to be given on Tuesday - Wednesday, March 24-26-0ffice of the Registrar-must be completed before 3:00 p.m. Match 20. Applications for Orientation Counselors are now available at the Dean of Students• Office in Old Gynt. Applications must be returned by April 10. Students interested in becoming candidates for work in de- pressed areas of Europe, Africa and the Middle East during the coming summer should see Dr. Fried in the Student Office for applications and information. Wally's Diner • Home Made Pies Good Coffee • 325 Erie Blvd. Open Daily 5 A.M. 7 P.M. MEN'S CHINO PANT'S Cottons Dacron & Cotton 3.98 4.98 334 State St. We gladly Cash your checks (Contim e<l out tha1 where seve! students arE all-men's inc ly close to ties. Grea1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:r•1 Pollock a: r a greater a student bod EXCLUSIVE EUROPEAN FILMS! ~r~ . ' ~ . .• . .,...,. A NEW FILM! HELD OVER THRU WED. At 7.00 and 9.00 11 7 Mohawk Ave., Scotia \A DEVILISH DISSECTION.OF MAN THAT HAS HUMOR, SUSPENSE AND A DASH OF EVIL!'' -BOSLEY CROWTHER, N.Y. TIMES KNIFE IN THE WATER DIRECTED BY ROMAN POLANSKI. A KANAWHA FILMS, LTD. PRESENTATION For three Generations • tl • Those Who Know ... Have been recommending HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Maurice B. Granbart & Sons \\3 Union Graduates in G.raubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY ties of the arship. This by his actio four fratem m·ship. He that time he ter p1·esiden that they w grades of t1 ting up tu· forcing, and ing, study rt sure on lov reason for many of th not return · ter. The most this report been given scholarship period of h of that tim• factorily cal sibilities, th regulation ' an \indefini No offic: available o freshman g1 fact that fc List, Jazz. (Con tim in this conn the vm·y fe it without and dull. The point is that eve1 terest is no opportunity tertaining e tomorrow, a foolish to le

St11dent Council • • • (Continued from Page 1) ~·-------- e'ing with him and any extra . money will be donated to the Un- ion Co!1ege Civil Rig·hts Commit- '. tee in the name of the student up to his ··. body and faculty of the college. •' .;- ,. ••• >\.,. duet. · Joint Tt·i-City Effort he?\ : The activities of the Faculty the idea, Committee on Non- Western Stud- wei·e~ were outl:ned at the coundl was ask. . This is a joint effort in several colleges in the tri- simply area. It is hoped than $60,- band will be raised in the next work to- five years. The money will be the band · used to finance seminars on Asia but it also · faculty members in an effort trombone · to show them where non-western an im- ideas may be integrated into their East coun. · present pt·ograms. In conjunction with this the libra-ry will cata- logue all texts available in the tri-city area dealing with non- e most im· western studies. There is a possi- Birks Gil-~ bility of having a scholar-in- When the 1 ·esidence who wou 1 d divide his first pro- time among the colleges in the one area in the field of non~western Gilles- . studies. This could be integrated jazz trll111-1Jel into the plans of the Student rld!\ These Council Scholar-in-Residence pro- of· s one is no than say. a fair base Dizzy is and as made a Down Beat All · In the lat- won the vote in a select the top jazz usually the selec- especially are of the the bossa \ correctlv n Getz oi· · whn, harmon- recording e bridge or Dizzy the very. bossa no,· a j 5) 1 ur checks M! WED. Scotia s gram. Lack of Negroes Ivens LeFlore suggested that the council conduct an investiga- tion into the notable lack of Ne- gro students at the college. Victor Fazio mentioned that several in- quiries had been conducted in the past and that the council members had been satisfied with the findings. LeFlore said that the council should follow up these questions with a positive state- ment of the feelings of the stu- dent !Jody regarding the matter. . Lawton Morrison pointed out the fact that he had spoken to Mr. Schmidt on the matter and Schmidt told him that a Negro scholarship funcl had recommend- pr{ 8 students to him. Letters were sent to four of these stu- <ients even though admissions had heen formally closed. There was no response because we are com- rwting with many schools who ure in a position to offer large ,l'holarships to these top stu- dents. Skidmore-Union Peace Corps :\Iorrist>n <li:;cussed the propos- l'tl Skidmore-Unior. College Peace Co1ps Program. Under this plan students in the middle of their college careez·s would spend two years abroad with the peace t·orps. It would be similar to the standard Peace Corps program except that thece is the possibil- ity that the government would send a college professor to Europe with the students and they could gain college credit for work done in conjunction with the Peace l'nrps program. Indices ••• (Continued' from Page 1) ed out that in any institution where seventy per cent of' the students are fraternity men, the all-men's index has to be relative- ly close to that of the fraterni- ties. Greater Awareness Pollock attributed the rise to a greater awareness among the student body and the fraterni- ties of the importance of schol~ arship. This was caused, in part, by his action in the fall against four fraternities with poor schol- arship. He mentioned that since that time he spol\e to many chap- ter presidents and they told him that they were tryil1g to aid the grades of their members by set- ting up tutorial programs, en- forcing, and in one case institut- ing, study rules, and putting pres- sure on low achievers. Another reason for the rise was that many of the worst students did not return to school this semes- ter. The most important result of this report is that the I.F.C. has been given a jurisdiction over scholarship standards for a trial period of two years. At the end of that time, if they have satis- factorily carried out their respon- sibilities, the authority for self- regulation will be continued for an \indefinite\ period. No official information was available on the state of the freshman grades, other than the fact that forty-two made Dean's List, • • • (Continued from Page 4) in this country, and he is one of ~he v.m·y few who can still play 1t wrthout sounding hackneyed and dull. . The point of this whole article 1s that even if your musical in- terest is not jazz; you have the oppo::tl}nity to .spend a very en~ tertammg evemng a week from tomorrow, and you would be very foolish to let it g• by. Symphony ... (Continued from Page 1) entire concerto shows unmistak- ablE' jazz influences. Work by Arne Olof will also join the Albany Symphony for a perfot•mance of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's Con- certo for Violin in A major, K. 219. The first half of the program will conclude with a three move- ment suite by Thomas Arne, Overture in the Mask of Comus. This performance of the wo1·k by Arne, a notable eighteenth cen- tury composer of English opera, is unusual in its use of trumpets at their original pitches, requir- ing extraordinary virtuosity on the part of the two trumpet play- Lomax ••• (Continued from Page 1) Death As A Topic Songs about death have always held a warm spot in the Ameri- can. heru·t, Mr. Lomax said. He sang a necrophilic Methodist hymn to prove his point. Negro spirituals are also pop- ular, and to demonstrate this, Mr. Lomax sang \No Room,\ the Christmas story set to music. He said that the word love does not appear in the Negroes' song until the 1930's. ers. Mr. Lomax stress~d the conflict in American songs between the Western European ballad and the Negro rhythm. To demonstrate, he sang an Irish ballad and a Negro work song in his p 1 easant Hadyu Symphony tenor. Lomax accompanied him- The other work to be heard on self on the guitar. th~ Albany Symphony program Ideal About Culture w1ll be Franz Joseph Haydn's Folk songs express a great deal Symphony :\'o. 98 in B-flat. This about the cultures in which they work includes a brief harpsichord evolve. For example, in cultures solo in the final movement which where harmony is found women was played at the premiere per• play an active part in the society. formance by Haydn himself, but Also, in a society of hunters and which will be played on Wednes- travelers, such as the American day night by Professor Hugh AI- Indian, the range of the notes is len Wilson. greater than in a society of far- This concert is the fourth in met·s, such as the Chinese. the Union College-Schenectady Mr. Lomax asked for audience ~useum Concert series and is be- participation on some of his num- mg co-sponsored by the New, hers. The large audience com- York State Council on the Arts. I plied quietly at first but, as the The conce;·t will begin at 8:30 • evening progressed, joined in P.M. and 1s free to members of j with the required shouting and the college community. foot stamping. * II TIE DBLBOIO I !AID BOURD~UP CORTIST * fRIZBl: PORTABLE STEREOPHONIC RECORD PLAYER by Admiral WHO WINS: Prize will be awarded to any recognized Group or Individual submitting the largest number of empty packages of Marlboro, Parliament, Philip Morris, Alpine or Paxton. nULBS: 1. Contest open to qualified students only. 2. Empty packages of Marlboro, Parliament, Philip Morris, Alpine or Paxton must b~ be submitted in order to qualify. -3. Closing date, time and location will be au· nounced in your newspaper. 4. No entries will be accepted after official closing time. * MARLBORO* PARLIAMENT* ALPINE PHILIP MORRIS* PAXTON * That flies with Union's turkey herd. in your newspaper the use of the word partisan. Must we as a school p;1use before a worthwhile step in support of something right Dr. John E. Weinrich, Assist- H. Daniel Nilsson, I because we have in our midst a t '6' an Professor of Economics at \\ few raging nincompoops who re- Union College, has been elected fuse to admit that the days of to the Convocation of the Uni- 1 \Jim Crow\ have gone. Howevel', versity of London. Weinrich will• To the Editor of Concordiensis: considering the number of Negro participate in the ele~tion. of the i . Either the student body of Un- students we have at Union per- Chancell?r of the Umversrty ~nd 1011 College is for the civil rights haps it would be better to ti:!Jke help dec1de matte.rs ?f financmg, I movement or it is not. The mere a less hypocritical stand and give purposes, and obJect1ves, faculty fact that there is a doubt must · monetary support to the Ameri- st~tus, scholarship and fellow-! stand as a indictment of this can Nazi Party. shtps. school. It was interesting to see Joel Loewenstein, '67 MORE AND MORE MANAGEMENT SHOES need filling every year at New York Telephone. If you can fill a pair of these shoes a few years hence, we want to see you now.lt's a young man's world at New York Telephone, because the communications business is growing and changing fast. Customers require more specialized services, custom-tailored to meet their needs. We need young men with creative minds, good grades, and the cour- age to tackle tough problems. The liberal arts man will find New York Telephone the place to test his ideas, use his many talents and in· terests. Before you make up your mind about employment, let us tell you about opportunities that can lead to a well-rounded, well-rewarded future for you. Call Mr. Peter Stark, College Employment Coordinator, in New York City, Area Code 212, 394-3663. Just call collect. Or se.e your College Placemen~ Office.

CIVIL RIGHTS PAGE I Concordy Sports WINGATE TO LEAVE PAGE I Shields New Lustig Captures Medley Champ Individual Titles By Phil Evans Basketball Statistics Paul Shields, Union Sophomore standout in the in- dividual medley, added the crowning glory to his achieve- ments of the .season last Saturday by winning the individ- ual medley in the Upper New York State Championships at Buffalo. Shields qualified first in the morning trials in 2:14.8, more than 3 seconds ahead of his nearest compet- itor. His time of 2 :13.7 in the finals set new varsity and Buffalo State Pool records. Shields and R.P.I.'s Bradburn were the only \outsiders\ to break Colgate's dominance of Field Goals Free lhrows Rebounds ·Points Garnet Glow In Practice Meet; State Meet Here Tomorrow By Michael Spodak Although no official results were kept for last Friday night's four school practice meet, Union made an impres- sive start to a promising season. Completely dominating two field events, the Garnet was only outclassed in the sprints. The Union thinclads l'uled su- <® ---- ~- ---- preme in the shot-put and the pole Uni In •t t• 1 T vault. Morrison, who last week on VI a IOna omorrow broke the school record with a In the 8th Annual Indoor In- toss of 48'8\ turned in his usual vitational Track Meet to be held ·good performance before going off this Saturday in the Field House, to the ICAAAA meet held the fifteen schools will be competing. next day in Madison Square Gar- Rochester is favored to win while den. He was followed by Woodell Springfield and Alf1•ed v:ill be ex- and Wilcox, a newcomer to win- pected to battle it out for second ner's circle, with Hauslet·, a place place and Uni.on will be in top off the pace, finishing fifth. In contention for a fourth place the pole vault Stu Kelly turned berth. Gansle of Cortland, ·who in one of his best performances runs a 5.6 second 50 yard.~, is with a 12\6' effort and Bob New- favored in his event and Wollkind begin, with a 12' perfomance, (R.P.I) and Talley (Cortland) are vaulted to a new personal high. favored in the 1000 yards and one . . . mile, respecti\·ely. Union's John Ketz Opbm1stic Morrison will be tossing for first Bill Ketz, track mentot', is look- place laurels in the shotput and ing forward with optimism to a should help put Union in the scar- very tough season. The Garnet ing column. the first place gold medals. <il--- Freestyler Bill Schauer was also a standout for the Garnet, winning three medals. Schauer was second to Colgate's Martin in the 200, turning in a 1:54.5. His third place time of 5:31.1 in the 500 set a new varsity record for that event. Schauer's third medal came in the 400 yd. freestyle re- lay. This quartet of Shields ( 5.1.5), Boles (50.3), Evans (52.6), and Schauer (49.8) took second place behind Colgate, breaking the old varsity record of 3:24.2 by 00.1 seconds. Medley Relay Third Colgate and Syracuse topped Union's medley relay team in the opening event of the varsity com- petition. This squad of Siers (1.01.2), Bernhard (1:09.8), Shields (59.3), and Boles (50.7) was clocked at 4:01.0 for a third place bronze medal. Dick Siers set a new varsity standard in the 200 yd. back- stroke. His time of 2:15.3 placed him third behind Colgate's Renne and Syracuse's Hickman. Bill Bernhard made an excellent show- ing in the individual medley, tak- ing fifth place in 2:21.2. In the 100 freestyle John Boles captured sixth place with a 52.0 clocking. Diver Lawton Morrison was one of the eight qualifiers in the one meter diving finals. His steady diving earned him a seventh place in the final tally. Two Frosh Qualify Only two frosh qualified for the finals in their events. Backstrok- er Jim Mogal showed good form in the 100 yd. backstroke, taking second place in 1:02.7. Chris Cas- sels was fifth in the diving com- petition. Yesterday five varsity team members travelled to Dartmouth for the Eastern Championships. Union will enter a medley relay of Siers, Bernhard, Shields and Boles, and a freestyle relay of Shields, Bolef;l, Bernhard, and Sch- auer. Shields will swim the 200 and 400 yd. individual medley events, Siers will compete in the 100 and 200 yd. backstroke, and Bernhard is entered in the 100 yd. butterfly and the 200 individual medley. Freestylers Boles and Schauer are sharing the freestyle events. Boles will go in the ·50 and 100 yd. contests, while Sch- auer will tackle the 200, 500 and 1650 yd. events. Skiers Finish Season With Boots Off By :M, Gero The Ski Team's season ended in gloomy disappointment last weekend as the final meet of the season was cancelled due to rain in Lake Placid. This ended a frus- tratingly promising season. ~ \' E Player 0 (!I Toby Lustig '64 21 Gary Brown '65 21 Mike Holowaty '64 21 John Clover '65 21 lorry Rivkin '66 17 Mike Sahr '64 21 AI Hrdlicka '66 10 Dave Kasper '66 21 S. Hutchinson '65 18 larry Fabian '66 14 Ed Hannan '64 15 Marty Goldberg '65 11 Ric~ Dwore '65 6 Sill looney '65 5 Union totals 21 Opponent totals 21 Toby Lustig going in for three against objection of R.P.I. de· fender. ~ 0 u :e .... 184 51.4 114 44.5 74 47.4 51 36.6 52 33.1 42 33.8 41 41:0 32 42.7 15 48,4 7 50.0 6 60.0 3 42.9 3 50.0 0 • ., t 0 0 :e ... z 132 68.0 353 63 73.3 114 12 48.0 144 21 61.8 130 18 54.5 79 29 59.2 89 12 54.5 35 20 71.4 48 7 58.3 21 6 60.0 11 7 63.6 4 2 66.7 6 2 roo:o 2 1 100.0 2 624 43.5 332 65.1 1184 609 36.2 299 62.9 1054 Union 64 Norwich 65 Union 59 Hartford 65 Union 77 Brockport 58 Union 75 Hamilton 60 Union 85 Middlebury 64 Union 54 Williams 68 Union 68 RPI 54 t 0 z 16.8 500 5.4 291 6.9 160 6.2 123 4.6 122 4.2 1·13 3.5 94 2.3 84 1.2 37 .8 20 .3 19 .5 8 .3 8 .4 56.4 1580 50.2 1515 Union 81 Sir George Williams 74 Union 61 MIT 67 Union 87 Harpur 70 Union 90 Kings oint 78 Union 79 Pratt 70 Union 95 Stevens 77 Union 73 Amherst 85 Union 78 Rochester 85 Union 86 Drew 59 Union 86 Wesleyan 112 Union 84 Hamilton 76 Union 89 Hobart 83 Union 60 Trinity 86 Union 49 R.P.I. 61 PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS 2.0 1.4 1.3 .7 1.3 .2 75.2 72.1 team will be meeting stiff compe- The fifteen schools which will tition in all events but the thin- be competing Saturday are Al- clad coach is looking with favor fred, Buffalo State, Cortland, toward his shot-put squad and the Hamilton, Harpur, Hartwick, Ith- running of Dave Ring and John aca, LeMayne, R.P.I., Robert Sepples. With a combination of Wesleyan, Springfield, Union, Un- Morrison, Woodell, Hausler, and iversity of Buffalo, University of Wilcox in the shot, Union can ex- Rochestet· and Trinity. This meet was to be the final inter-collegiate event in Pat Du- gan's ski career. It is rare in- deed when a four-event man can so consistently perform as well as did Pat throughout this season; inside the first 20 in three out of foUl' events at the Army meet, in the top 25 in cross-country at the Syracuse Winter Carnival, in the top 15 in three out of four events at the Cornell Winter Carnival, Dugan won the respect of the entire team for his determination and spirit. 20th place in the SYl·acuse meet against the best cross-country tal- ents in the Northeast; very good for his second cross-country race; Lee Tuthill piclred up the 27th place in his first intercollegiate race in the downhill at the same meet; Dick Foland came from no- where to place consistently in the top ten in the giant slaloms and slaloms in all the meets. • T V T T T Y f Y f' T # T f V 'f T + T 'Y '¥' 'T '¥ V f ¥ i ¥ f T T T 1' T '¥' 't 'f Y Y f 't' .f '¥ ¥ f f I pect a heavy and constant source of points. According to the track coach, Ring is running better than Engles Elected ever before and can be counted on for strong support in the mile. Sepples is another improved run- ner and Garnet hopes wHI be rid- ing with him in the two mile run. Team Surprising With the names of Lustig and Kelly added to those of Hausler and Sepples the senior TOster on the track squad is complete and Ketz is expecting big things from all the seniors. He claims that we have a better team this year than last year. Focusing on the squad's neo- phytes, this year's freshmen have turned in outstanding perform- ances. With many competent mm as Fenton in the discus, Biddle in the 440, the hurdles, and the high jump, Campman in the mile and broad jump, l\Ioran in the mile, Cherinko in the half mile, and Peters in the sprints, the frosh squad will have both breadth and depth. Projecting to next season when the present frosh will swell the varsity ranks, there should . be a definite improvement in the presently weak running events and an overall improvement of the team as a whole. NEED YOUR SHOES REPAIRED? WE MEND SHOES Ideal Shoe Repair 1565 Van Vranken Avenue Rick Engles, a junior English major, has been elected captain of next season's wrestling team. Tangling in the 177 pound weight class this winter, Rick compiled five victories while dropping only two. In addition, he forfeited a contest in his first outing of the campaign as he suffered a severe cut over his right eye and was prohibited from continuing by the referee. He also competed as a fresh- man capping off that year with an eighth place in the Plebe Tourna- ment at West Point which is open to first year grapplers in Eastern colleges. He is also a letterman in football, a Gatesmen, and a frequent contributor to the Con- cordieusis. CHARLES 604 UNION ST. In retrospect, the team as a whole performed far better than: was expected at the beginning of the season. Lloyd Purves earned Tim~C~nt~.­ J~w.:;lers \BUY WITH CONFIDENCE\ -YOUR AUTHORIZED KEEPSAKE DEALER Opticians SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Phone FR 7-1283 Prescriptions Filled Frames and Lenses Repaired Promptly HOURS: 9:00 - 5:30 Regulars Jim O'Hare could al- ways be counted on for a place or two in the downhill events and Seville Simonds, until he hurt his knee, was one of our leading con- tenders for points. ~P-~GS.kt3 INTERLOG.KING RING SETS' TIME CENTER JEWELERS Dave's %quire .$hop the traditional TENNIS SWEATER White and Blue 17.95 Short sleeved tennis jacket also 17.95 328 STATE ST Dolly te S1IO • Tues. & Thur, 'til t Jay Jewelry Co. 315 STATE STREET ;})iamon~ ... Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. Arnold Fisher 'SO FA 1 co Pc Vol. 95- Wo1 To I By :M Dansfortl the Very MacLeoc l\llur.n.rlr with t a Presl ~ a small il Scotland. this Thursd: lot Dr. MacLeo Iona con ln ..... !-.~ this ti has rn.uu<,.v, found sixth the cr ~fo•rm.atioon, ar ~IUWll~t!U Until ity rebuilt it. · ministers and the monaste1 conferences. island during to plan servi religious ins:r: tum to thei poor. Ori4 Dr. MacLe· cation at Ori IO:!ifm·d Univj Unive1· of Div Univer! I Dr. Mn,f.n;:~ in th< Highlan and t the Mil · Croix de Gue1 gle. In 1921 · graduate Fe Semi11ary in the following siona· in th British Colur · . of St. Cuthb a well-to-do 1 · for four year cause of his < the poor. A1 Leod spent i as minister c · Church, in G lain to Quee the first Pn ( Contin ·Loew Vespe By m Rev. Ralpll the Holy Tri1 of Buffalo, preacher at per Service, in Memorial speak on \ Change.\ A native Loe w rece i\ Capital Univ . . graduate wo1 versity, he 1 of Divinity J Divinity Sch Doctor of D burg Univet•: Coull Loew has: the Buffalo tion an~ :Pre and Erie Churches. H4 her of theE Council of of the Boar< Deaconess H After two of the Boar( of the Luthe ica, he is cu tive Board 1 · The vespc sponsored b• dation and' tlon of the :

FACULTY COLUMN Page 2 Founded at Union College tn 1877 MOVIE REVIEWS Page 3 es ·I Vol. 95 -. No. 20 SCHENECTADY, N.Y. MARCH 20, 1964 PRICE 15 CENTS ·MacLeod To Be IFC Passes 1 Gillespie To Set Tempo For Weekend Activities s ·Points 500 23.8 291 13.9 160 7.6 123 5.9 122 7.2 1·13 5.4 94 9.4 84 4.0 .2 37 2.0 .8 20 1.4 .3 19 1.3 .5 8 .7 .3 8 1.3 .4 .2 4 1580 75.2 1515 72.1 74 't' .f ¥ ¥ f f I 'tilt '50 nsforthSpeaker Eligibility Mark Rule Work With The I ona Community 'To Be Discussed At Convocation By AI Nahmias ----~-~~~~~~-~ Profits To Go To Rights Drive By :Matthew Katz •!'>--·-~--- Dansforth Visiting Lectur- Jonas the Very Reverend George MacLeod, will discuss his.· D • Pur.n.r •k with the lo?a Commun-.. IS c u s s e s a Presbyterian endowed,, workshop located·~· } • • a small island off the coast so attontsm Scotland. He will speak at · Thursday's Convocation .. Iona Leade1· Dr. MacLeod has been leader of Io:na community since 1939 .. ,,..., .... ~~.~ this time the ruined Abbey has been restored. The ~,..,..,..,,.J, founded by St. Cuthbert · sixth century, is consid- the cradle of Scotland's lChtris:tianity.. First a Benedictine · , and then destroyed by twice in its first centuries,. Abbey is the site of the burial> •·••··--·- of pre-Reformation Scottish MacBeth, made famous speare's tragedy, is said buried here. The Abbey pillaged and the community sne!rS€!d at the time of the Re- ~fol·mation, and it remained unin- ~'\\'l''\u until the present commun- · ity rebuilt it. The brotherhood of · ministers and craftsmen now use the monastery for retreats and conferences. People g·ather at the island during the summer months; to plan service pl'Ojects and find religious inspiration and then I'e- turn to their work among the Professor Manfred Jonas By Mark Kasowitz The Interfraternity Council passed a motion to honor ad-in- terim grades in determining ele- gibility of freshmen for pledg- ing. The motion was made by Daniel Prigmot'e. He brought to the council's attention the fact that professors will be making I.F.C. could honor written affi- out ad-interim grades, and the davits from professors testifying that a student had attained a particular grade as of the ad-in- terim. Heason Given Under the ruling originally passed by the I.F.C., no fresh- man with an index of 1.5 or less is eligible to pledge a fraternity. David Crandal1 mentioned that freshmen who pledged this year, with a cterrease in the number of the fraternities need members now more than ever. Since ad- interim grades may be obtained he supported the motion to honor The many faceted comic who starred in three roles in Dr. Strange- them. George Posner opposed the mo- love, left, Peter Sellers will s~ar ~onight as most of the population of tion, feeling that many frosh 1 of the Duchy of Grand Fenwtck m The Mouse That Roared. woulrl work just to make the 1.5 at mid-semester and then drop at the end of the semester. Cran- dall pointed out that it was the duty of the individual houses to see that this did not happen. Un- der the provision of another mo- tion, the I.F.C. Judicial Board will handle all the affidavits of those below 1.5 who wish to pledge. Fenwick To Declare War On U.S. Tonight By Peter Miehl poor. Oriel Alumnus Manfred Jonas, Associate Pro- Immediate Rush Discussed The Mouse That Roared, featuring Peter Sellers, will Dr. MacLeod received his edu- fessor of History, gave a brief The I.F.C. elected a five-man be ·shown on Friday night, March 20, at 7 and 9 o'clock, in cation at Oriel College, a pa1t of analysis of American isolationism Judicial Board consisting of Gary E.E. 22 . Thl's witty film, directed by Jack Arnold, has re- tQ]IfOJ.'d University, and at Edin- in a talk before a faculty colla- Morris, Phil Evans, Charles Pan- Universitv. He obtained his quim on Tuesday afternoon. The kenier, Werner Liepolt and Dave ceived many favorable reviews for \its cheerful nonsense of Divinity degree at Glas- speech was taken from a chapter Caspel'. These men will serve un- 'ld f f h · t t f d Unive 1 ·sity. During World of a book which Jonas has writ- til April when the regular Judi- that makes Wl uno t e awesome ms rumen so mo ern I Dr. MacLeod served as ten. cial Board elections will be held. war.\ Mouse That Roared has been so well acclaimed that \~··t-~;H 19 ~ 1 ut1~e;·fcea Y~~d~r~:!~~e~ne;:;:~ di~~an:u:~r f~~fe~~~~ ~~~/~~:~ a sequel ~as prompted, Mouse on tbe Moon, which is at and the Middle East. He the. m_ost imp.ortant. period of i~o- passed to members o. f the co.un-1 present bemg shown at local theaters. 1 the Military Cross and the I t t t t mode n his '1 Th · t d h . t a 1omTsh sen 1m~n thii! r t- ct. ~1·e IS a mo Ion pen mg, Fenwick Flounders +;.-------- . Croix de Guerre during t ts s rug- tory. e men. m 1s movemen , requestmg that the I.F.C. return J gle. In 1921 he became a p~st- although commg together from to an immediate rush program. The plot of ]\louse That Reared T s d ' graduate Fellow at the Um~n all parts of ~he political sphere, I These plans .are to be presented I concerned the prosperity of the wo tu ent Semi!lary in New York, and .m had one goalm common: the pro- to the individual houses for dis- smallest nation in the world, sioner in the }umbel' camps of the following year became a filS- (Continued on Page 5) cussion. (Continued .on Page 5) pI ay s set British Columbia. He was pastor .. of St. Cuthbei't's Parish Church, w F• M s k Th Fl a well-to-do church in Edinburgh, est Ire ore mo e an arne F s , for four years. He left in 1930 be- Q r t age cause of his desire to work among the poor. As a result, Dr. Mac- Leod spent the next eight ye~rs as minister of Govan Old Par1sh · Church, in Glasgow. He is Chai,>- . lain to Queen Elizabeth, and ts the first Presbyterian to preach (Continued on Page 5) Loew To Be . Vesper Speaker By Glenn Holzhauer By Robert Stolzberg The Mountebanks will be quite busy during the next few months as they prepare three one act plays and Reginald Rose's Twelve Angry Men for presentation. The first production will open on April 10, and run until the 14th. The second will be performed on the first and second of May. Courtroom Drama Set in the jury room of a mur- der trial, Twelve Angry Men cen- ters around conflicts between the members of the jury. Juror Num- ber 8, played by John Thompson, is the main character, the man who stands alone for acquittal. By Hank Ruschmeyer Dizzy Gillespie will set the tempo for the Jazz Weekend festivities at a concert, Sat- urday evening, March 21, at 8:00 in the Memorial Chapel. , Gillespie, an all-time great in I American jazz, is one of the few innovators in his field. Along with Thelonius Monk, Charlie Parker, and Mary Lou Williams, Dizzy helped create bop. A night club celebrity and maker of 35 record albums, the jazz king has also gone abroad several times as good-will ambassa- dor for the State Depart- ment, bringing music and good-will to the people of foreign lands. The Union College Civil Rights Committee is sponsoring the -con- cert, and all proceeds will be do- nated to the Student Non-Violent Co-ordinating Committee. Tieltet~ are now on sale for $2.50 per person at fraternity houses, dol'- mitories, and the Student Activi- ties Office. Off-Campus Party Following the jazz concert, Lit- tle Anthony and the Impe:rials, whose recordings include \Tears on My Pillow,\ \Limbo \ and \Oh Yeah,\ the Combo Kings, and rock 'n'' roll singer Tammy Mont- gomery will p1·ovide music; and song for an off-campus college party at Shaughnessy Hall, 1 Church Street in Schenectady from 10:00 P.M. to 2:00A.M. The party is being given for the entire campus by eight fraternities: Chi Psi, Delta Phi, Delta Upsilon, Kappa Alpha, Kappa Sigma, Phi Gamma Delta, Psi Upsilon, and Sigma Phi. · Entertainment, beer, and trans- portation from the campus will be included for the $3.00 per couple admision charge. A shuttle bus for students going to the party will leave from the Rathskellar beginning at 10:00, and theretrp~ on, every subsequent half hour until 2:00 A.M. Buses will 1•eturn to the campus from Shaughnessy Hall every quarter hour, in be- tween the hour and the half hour. I.F.C. President Mike Miller prom- ises the party will be a gre;;tt suc- cess, and a real bargain for the price of a ticket. Dress is casual. Buy in Advance Tickets must be bought in ad- vance at the Student Activities Office, fraternity houses, or dor- mitories. They will not be sold at the door. RC Sponsors Blood Drive Rev. Ralph W. Loew, pastor of the Holy Trinity Lutheran Church of Buffalo will be the guest preacher at the Community Ves- per Service, Sunday night at 8:~0 in Memorial Chapel. Loew Will speak on \Faith for the Big Opposing him is Dee Singer, Jur- By Carl Feigenbaum or Number 3, and Jack Kennedy, Change.\ . A native of Columbus, Ohto, Loew received his A.B. from Capital University in 1928. After graduate work at Ohio State Uni- versity, he l'eceived his Bachelor of Divinity Deg1·ee hom Hamma Divinity School in 1931 and his Doctor of Divinity from Witten• burg Univet•sity in 1947. Juror Number 4, who want a con- T h c American Red Cross viction. The other members of Bloodmobile will hold a Blood the jury are Paul Forlenza, David Drive in the Alumni Gym on , Hall, Mathew Kelly, Freu Kopp, March 25 from 10 A.M. to 4 P.M. Joel Loewenstein, Ralph Radell, and on March 26 from 9 A.M. to John Trevors, Bill Van Dyke, and 3 P.. The drive is sponsored by Jay Williams. John Girdner and the Freshman Class for the col- Gifford Wingate will direct the lege as a whole and by the Arnold play. Twelve Angry Men was or- Aid Society for the A.F.R.O.T.C. iginally written for Playhouse 90 Corps. in 1955. It was later adapted for Benefits Donor the stage. Ray Pil{e, Freshman President, A fireman, weary from fighting smoke in West College conflagration, pauses to admire hot items on Student Plays and chairman of the drive, said, Loew has served as President of wall of freshman room. \A successful drive will be of Council President the Buffalo Ministerial Associa- The three one act plays to be benefit to the individual donor tion an(i President of the Buffalo By Barry Neuman Jlresented are Pirandello's The and to the community. It will and E .· C ty Counct'l of d f If' · 11 · · h d Man With a Flower in His enable the hospt'tals connected ne oun . A fire ravaged room 330 of· building· was evacuate . A ew n·e was qmc { y extmgms e . Churches. He is presently a mem- West College Dormitory on Sun- Freshmen tried to kick in the The remains of the bed were Mouth; Julian Olf's The Bat; and with the program to meet their her of the Executive Board of the day evening, March 15. The blaze door for fear that the occupants removed. Any fire at Union is Ralph Radell's For the Repost of blood needs and at the same time Council of S<Jcial Agencies and' destl·oyed a mattress and bed, and were trapped inside. Finally, a an automatic three-alarmer due Her Soul. Olaf's and Radell's plays provide for possible future re- o£ the Board of Directors of the covered the entire room and its. chair was used to knock out one to the large number of old build· came from a search for odginal quirements of the donor.\ Deaconess Hospital. contents with a thick coat of soot. of the door's panels, and someone ings on campus. West College, plays written by Union College The program is o:rt a volunteer After two years ~s Pre;si~ent The fire did not spread out of reached in to unlock it. Billows which was built recently, is well students. A two man panel com- basis, paid for by funds collect- of the Board of Foreign M1sswns the room, and there were 110 in- of black smoke poured out and fireproofed, and Sunday's fh·e posed of Professor Bradbury ed through contributions and will ~f the I;utheran Church of Amer- juries. 1 . filled the corridor, The 1 , 00 m was never penetrated the walls or and Sam Morrell, of the Galaxy be staffed by doctors and regis- ~~a, he IS currently on the Exeeu· . . empty. ceiling of the room. Players, selected the four best tered nurses. If there is any ttve Board of the U.L.C.A. Resxdents of the thtrd floor , . . , plays submitted and turned them doubt .as to a person's ability to · The vesper service is jointly first spotted black smoke seep- I Thre~ Alarm FJre . . RJChatd Jan_ney .and Stev:~n ove1· to Professor Wingate's En. give blood, he should appear at spol}sored by the Christian Asso- mg_from the locker room at about 1 .Se;veral ftre. trucks arrtved 1 Siegle;, who l~ved m the th~tcl glish 14 Play Producing Class, the Bloodmobile and take the pl'e- ciatlon and the local congrega-1 ?:4o P:M· An alarm wa::~ pulled I w1th_tn a few nunutes. A hose was 1 floor loom, ,weJe both out to c!Jn-. fur final selection. The other two ·liminary tests to make sure. tton of the Lutheran Church. 1mmedtately, and most of the, carrted up to the room, and the, (Contmued on Page 5) (Continued on Page 5) (Continued on Page 5)

2 Guest Column: Research Redivivus By Prof. Ft·ank Gado Unlike my predecessor in this c:olumn, I have no tw~nty ye~:r affairs one-sided or requitl'd, to confess. And the damp m1croscop1c I . unts' of paramecia han~ interested me lf'ss than most of the full H\ G 1 1 1 1 l t me But Professor frei\'llted n·tvies of \\'orlds ,oc laS aunc lee a . f h But~el's br~ader topic the t·easons for ami the rewards o ~eseapc , is an insistent part of academic life. Why d? research? or _ro- f . . Butzel the answer is ::>imple and reducthle to the ~ssumpt10n ;:~~:Jse I a~ a scholar. I wonde~, J;owe\·er, how many m our pro- fession could, in candor, mak<:.> a smHlar response. State of Ferment Hal Horwitz, senim· honors stude11t in Biolog·y. American higher education has been in a state of ferm~nt since the end of Wor!cl War II. The great waves of students >yluch ~ave since broken on om· colleges and graduate sch_oo~s and an :n~reasmg­ ly com]Jlex society's demand for n:ore soph1s~1cat:d trammg ~ave made the business of degree gTantmg a .boommg mdustry. Tla~s­ formation has caused upheavals. The h~erarchy of. colleges! t1th a few ivied Eastern school,; safely at t~e top and wmdows 1 oMf ace- less institutions west of the Al'egheames and south of t 1e ~son- Dixon line hopelessly at the bottom, is no long~r so clear!~ defme~j p The Kalamazoos have successfully conltlended Wflth thle olldylu~ed~~~y The H~on·ors rooram· colleges and Berkeley has met the cha enge o once. on e a . . ~ 0 Harvard. This race for prestige has. produced. a fte~·ce. c~mpetltlo~ • • for faculty· l'aiding is commonplace lll academia as It ISm DetrO! A Conttnutn.o Sue· cess or Madison' Avenue. Today, the mythical college professor, an un- EJ worldly figure wreathed in pipe smoke who educate~ the sons of . . . . . . . three ·enerations during his tenure at Old Siw~sh, IS as ?utdated . Smce Its mceptwn on the Un-1 then· m~et~n~s on a :semmar. or as the g silly college m1:1sicals of the 'thirties wh1ch he !'Iab1ted. In l1on campus two years a.go, the 1 on an md1V1dual bas~s. Durmg the active academic market, he is a valuable commodb1t 1 ')[,h~nd h~e Hono_rs . Prog_ram has henJoyecl a thet ye 1 ar, thbe stude1~t IS ex 1 p~ct.ed 1 . ·t H also l·nows that the surest way of esta IS mg IS I flourtshmg, If somew at unrec- no on Y to e carrymg on 11s m- \~~ft~~ s t~ 'this e market' (which includes his own in~titution a~ w~ll as ~gnized, growth. While many st~:~- depe_ndent .study, but p~·eparing .a ot ntial bidders) is by compiling an extensiYe ltst of pubhcatwns. dents are aware that there JS ~hes1s whtrh he suh!ll1ts to h1s r e • 1 .· Rise some sort of Honors Program mstructor. The quahty of work . Sa aiJes · . _. F 1 available, too large a portion of· expected of tlw student is super- On the surface, thts see~1s to be :-' happy sttuat 10 • 11 i ac1·~Y the student body visualizes the ior to the calibre of material de- salaries haYe risen in ]JroportJOn to the mcrease .of ~e~eta ~~bh \y program as some form of cryp- manded by his classroom instruc- in the profession; department. !1eads have a yatdstJck bhy w IC d tic satellite, whirling in its own tor~. Since the student has ex- measure applicants for a posl.tw_n; th:e P.R. boys who ave !Hove . undefined orbit. As it was orig- pressed an unusual interest in into college administration buil~mgs lJ? l'ecent years have. ~:r;tst .for inally set forth, this was to be hi,; field, and has demonstrated the milling of news releases w1th whl.ch to .P~·om?te then mstit~- neither the purpose nor the re- his capability, he is expected to tions; and, obvi~usly, all th1s professonal actiVlty . 1 s bound to .rna ~ suit of the Honors Program. I prorluce work of superior quality. for better teachmg. Perhaps. But 1 cannot_ supptess the feat th~ It had long been realized that He must meet the standards of these blessings are not unalloyed and ~hat, 111 at least 1 some ~~ctotf an Honors Program was needed his department, as well as those of academia, they have had_ a deletenous effect on tle qua 1 Y 0 at Pnion, not only to recognize of the Honors Committee, whose ·erlu<\ation and true s~holarsh1p. . . . .. , those sturlents who, through their funrtions include the judgment The basis of my uneasmess ltes 111 the confuswn of reseallh s?holastic achievements had dis- of a candidate's work. The Honors and publication. The forme1· implies, to me at least, a scholar Y tinguishecl themseJves but to en- Program attempts to study in ~ursuit, a satisfaction of th~ itch to know. It may go on for yea~·s courage superior stude11ts to un- detail what other courses may and yet produ<\e no new dtscove!'Y· It may or may not result 111 rlertake independent study and coYer supet·ficially. Thus, it adds publication. 1 have no quarrel _w1t.h research. Indeed, any one who research in those fields in which depth to the student's breadth has no scholarly interest in l11s iteld had best get out. of coll~~e they were especially interested. in his major field. teaching. I have no idea w_hy he would ':ant to b:rth;.re m the ?h~~ A special faculty Task Force on It is to be hoped that eventu- place. What troubles ~e 1s the emphasis on pu tea 1 dn, ~po.n a Academic Affairs was appointed al'y all departments will offer addition of one more 1tem -. ~my tt.em - to the aca; em~~ resum~ to look into the issue. In 1961-62, Honors Programs to their stu- whieh, in c·ontrast to the trad1t10nal 1deal of scholarshd aihef ~r~i a subcommittee ?n Honors Pr?- dents. The pl'esentation of such the urge. not to lmow. but to be knov:n. If thiS pseu o-sc 0 ar~ PI grams and SuperiOr Students lmd a ]Jrugram poses special prob- conrerned only the indt~lgence of va~1ty, there wo~ld b? no great the groundwork for what was to lems, however, both in financing hat·m, but then' are sertous repercusswns on the professiOn. I become the present Honors Pro- and in staffing. More instructors Proliferation of Journals I gram. Their efforts were hegun <.lle necessary before so extensive In response to the stress. on publications, there ~as been a pro- in. the Spr_inr;. S~mester of 1962, a project can be begun. liferation of journals. Libranes groan under the wetght .and resort wtth the uuttatwn of the pro- p 8 . 11 L' •t d to microfilm but, as in The Rorcerer's Apprentice, there 1~ no st?p- gram. rogram t1 IIDI e ping the flow as publication-mad institutions (and, happily, Umon Honors De greeR While departmental participa- is not one of them) keep requiring their minions to produce .. The As it is presented now, the tion is strictly voluntary, many stage has been rPaC'hed \\h~re, in Englisl~ at l.east, no man can pac~ Honors Program offers a three- departments \\·hich have desired his 1 ·eading to the productiOn. Caught m th1s ~el~1&\e a ~rofessot year program of independent to start Honors Programs have finds it increasingly difficult to separate the ~tgmfican.t f1:om the study, leading to departmental been unable to do so because of insignifkant. The temptntion is to throw up. ones hands m d1sgus~. honors upon successful comple- insufficient staffing and finances. Concomittant with this stress on quant1ty has heen a predehc- tion of the program. Recognition It is to be hoped that the College tion towards sloppy scholarship manifested in gross factual error of these honors is printed upon will rectify the situation in the and myopic preoccupation with the trivial. the student's diploma at gradu- near futme. It is well understood Teaching Time Affected ation, along with any other hon- that education, especially on so Of more direct concern to the student is the time l~is instruc~or ors, such as the \Latin Honors,\ individual a basis, is an expensive must filch from him in order to stay alive in the p~bhsh 01: per~sh that he may have attained during nroject, but a project of this type sweepstakes. A noted educator once stated that the tdeal umYerstty his scholastic career. The latter is both necC\ssary and \\'orth\\'hile. consisted of a professor at one end of a .log. and a .stud~nt on the a1·e given on the basis of index \\'hile. ' other. But the professor seems bent on gomg m. the dn•ec~IOn of hav- alone, while departmental honors Despite the ph;.ska\ limitations ing professorial conclaYes at whic~ every?ne IS ~hatt:rmg_ and no are contingent upon SUGCessful inherent in any new UtJ<!ertaking, one with the exception of the puhhc relatiOns offtce, hstenm!f· The completion of an Honors Pro- The Honucs Program i~ growing student? He is at home o1· at a girls' school up the roa.d whtle the gram. in iutere.st am! extenl. It offers tape recmder he has sent tn cla:-;s in his stead is recordmg the lee- There are no minimum index not only recognition of oubtand- ture being delivered on TV tape. . requirements for acceptance into ing ability and interest, but an Perhaps most damaging of all is the effect ps~udo-s~holarsh1p the Honors Program, but pro- excellent opportunity for qu~;tli­ ha::; 011 the pmfessor. The t~me he spends fat!enmg hts. r~sume curement of departmental honors fied students to participate exten- might better be spent in genuute research. We l'lSk forgettmg that require!) at least a 3.0 index in the sively in detailed studies in their a man de,·oted to the life of the mind dedicates himself to a seren- field of study. Applications for majo-r fields. dipity whieh knows no artificial boundaries of disciplines and di- the various programs are submit- visions. ted to the department in which Stanfonl University's develop- ment program recently swept pa~t its announced $100 million '{Oal well ah2ad of schedule. The PACE Program (Plan of Action of a Challenging Era) was fol'- mally launched April, 1961, as a three-year campaign eff01't. ~-EWEST LU~CH 71·5 Albany Street Specializing: HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE DINNERS AND SANDWICHES TAKE-OUT ORDERS - Union Students Favorite Spot - I Serving Schenectady Since 1921 ) Open 7 Days Per Week 6 A.M. - 4:00 A.M. RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES BAR SUPPLIES POL YETHELENE CELLOPHANE DRUG SUNDRIES NOTIONS NOVELTIES RENTALS: GLASSWARE DISHES SILVERWARE J. NOGEE & SONS, Inc. Successor to S. MOttRIS & SON Established 1888 WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS PAPER-PAPER BAGS STATIONERY- SCHOOL SUPPLIES Phone FR 4·4429 - 28-34 N. Broadway Schenectady 5, N. Y. Wally's Diner Home Made Pies Good Coffee • 325 Erie Blvd. Open Daily 5 A.M. 7 P.M. study is rlesit·ed. This is then re- viewed and sent to the Honors Committee fol' final acceptance or rejection of the applicant. Participation in Seminars A student enrolled in the pro- gram works under the guidance of a professor, who may arrange •T 'f y t T + T T 'f T T t '¥' Y Y t '¥if t t f t f f f f f f t if i i fy f f t f f f f T f' UNION INN f 517 UNION STREET t ................................................ ~. RITZ REST AU RANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featurinq: HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Pa~ties Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week Friday, March 20, 1964 Musuc Review: Olof In Concert By Paul Livingston On Wednesday evening the Albany Symphony Orchestra, d-i- rected by Edgar Curtis, and violin soloist Theo Olof presented a · . concert which was interesting, challenging, often beautiful, and ver~· .i clearly imperfect. This was due, .basically, to an approach toward .' music which is, above all, thoughtful, conscientious, and aware of • · the responsibility an orchestra has to its audience. The Cm·tis Approach ( Mr. Cur.tis never seems to approach his music lightly, never is he inconsidemte. Therein lie the reasons, when his ideas are right, tor an evening of sensitively conceived and beautifully formed music or, on the other hand, when he is wrong, for a concert which is still an involving and interesting occasion. We may disagree with hi:; interpretations and choices of music, yet we can never doubt his sincerity and thoughtfulness. The Haydn Symphony No. 98 in B-Flat Major is the case in point. Mr. Curtis asked sometbing of his orchestra and he asked even more of the music. What he wanted was .a sense of pr.ofundity, a knowledge of the importance and solemnity of life which is to be l'evealed only in a supreme musical masterpiece. The first move- ment was begun slowly, and we were always made to feel the tension, the sense of something being drawn out of the music and held up for us to contemplate. The Albany Symphony is not an o1·chestra which is easily able to respond with much sensitivity to this sort of approach, yet the cause of our feeling of a general lack of spirit and mvolvement with the music is probably even more basic. The Haydn Symphony is a truly great piece of music, and in its performance last mght it felt firm and powerful. Yet it is lacking in precisely that spirit which M.r. Curtis seemed to be seeking. With \11e Minuet came a general lifting· of tension, and the music was allowed to nm its own course within the brisk tempo. Suddenly the w<Jrk came alive and could be heard as the spirited, enjoyable work which Haydn wrote, not the delicate cSOUl-searching which Mr. Cm·tis seemed to want. Wilson Waits When Haydn wrote the Symphony he included a continuo part for the harpsichord. At the time of the premiere performance he played this part himself, conducting, as was the custom of the time, from the keyboard. Mr. Curtis chose to omit the harpsicho1·d accom- panyment until the very end of the work, when an eleven measure solo is required. Thus we had the spectacle of Hugh Allen Wilson, harpsichordist, sitting idle at hi!'! instrument for an entire symphony, only to suddenly be heard at the last moment. This was Haydn's idea of a jolce, and it also works very nicely with the harpsichord playing throughout. The omission of the harpsichord line was prob- ably in keeping with Mr. Curtis' conceptions of the symphony as a whole. It would be difticult to reconcile the idea of a d..eeply pro- · found and moving symphony with the sound, no matte1· how innocu· ous, of harpsichordist pluckings in the background. Yet, though the in- terpretation which we heard on Wednesday evening was certainly weu worthy- of consideration, still. we rather wish that Haydn':; symphony had been allowed to do a bit more of its own speaking. But all this is matter of some subtlet~·. What was not subtle 11·as the way in which the french homists bleated, always too loudly and usually out of hme, the way the oboists gratingly ignored theil proper pitches, and the way concertmaster Edward Rice and his group of happy fiddlers blissfully ignored the more obvious aspects llf intonation. These shortcomings were particularlr noticeable in thl' latter parts of the Haydn and could scarcely be overlooked through· out the Mozart. The brief work by Thomas Arne which opened the program was neither a good work nor a well-played work. If the piece were an easy one, if the orchestra could play it flawlessly, and if the program needed an e:xtra ten minutes of length, then there might have be~n an excuse for presenting this three movement overture. Actually, the work isn't an easy one (the trumpet parts, for example, are scored at original pitches and are extremely difficult to play), the orchestra couldn't play it flawlessly (not even close-those violins again), and the program would have been quite full with<Jut this example of drea1·y eighteenth century writing. Olof Masterful Which brings us to the good things - Theo Olof and the Violin • Concerto by Hans Kox. being the most important of these. Mr. Olof. thE' conce1·tmaster of the Residentie Orchestra in the. Hague; gave beautiful and musically sensitive r-eadings of both the Mozart A Major Concerto and the young Dutch composer's ·work which is now recetving its first American pel'formances. Mr. Olof plays with a touch of looseness more common to the romantic period, yet which was, surprisingly, not really out of place in the Mozart. He plays very freely and he takes many rhythmir liberties, yet Mr. Olof's tone, though smooth and sweet, is never without a firm edge, and his conception is never unmusical. With a soloist of this sort, one who is inclined to bend each phrase ever so slightly to fit his ideas of musical and lyrical flow, a conductor who is a good accompanist is absolutely vital. Mr. Curtis prov€d most capable in this respect. The Concerto for Violin and Orchestra by Hans Kox is not to be dismissed lightly. This is a work which desperately needs more than one hearing to be appreciated, The three movements are vastly dif- ferent in tone, and within each movement there is considerable ex- perimentation with rhythm and melody. Yet there are important un- derlying relationships which unify the wo1·k and which en:able the movements to flow from beginning to end with hardly a lessening of tension. (Continued on Page 3) ------~--- :==============- ONE DAY SERVICE CAMPUS CLEANERS All Work Done on Premises PICKUP AND DELIVERY 527 Noll St., Schenectady, N. Y. Opp. Union College Phone EX 3-5472 NEED YOUR SHOES REPAIRED? WE MEND SHOES Ideal Shoe Repair 1565 Van Vronken Avenue Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWLIN:G LANES - Open 24 Hours Dally - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES Friday, Mea Movh The S< by either i plot. This on the stat Eastern w~ Lone Rang Hollywoode tion could evitabiy fin Akira Kurr that lie re1 cinema and The st' rival gamb Japan, the sharp swor symbols of new sword human han music that viewer is E official, me sides-for : And sc hero again: with such e Mazagawa, ever, waste in boring a mise in imJ film). I me tance are action of tl to make su which mak shadow is J point. The one eye is in this man with the fs Perha1 things I h: wisdom th1 sand Lone company. In cloE lmve had r that has n tainly wori Also since that Scoti~ Thursday. r.ontroversi York. I, f< vacation ell i\larch 20 :March 21 l l March 2: ] \larch 23- 1 A tr~ lege, is t Music Ro the avail~ tion on M of short j this year. the colleg March 24- 'l !\larch 25- C March 26- I )larch 27· c '¥ , .• ¥ + + 4 4 f • + 4 A Mo1 Free

20, doi- presented a • and vel,~· .' toward aware of' ( never is are right, music is still ee with his r doubt his the case in he asked pr.ofundity, is to be fi.l'St move- the tension, held up o1•chestra to this sort of spirit and in its s lacking in With music was' the work Mr. Cm·tis part he the time, accom- measure Wilson, symphony, llaydn':; harpsichord was prob- as a d.eeply pro- · innocu- the in- certainly Haydn':; not subtl\ s too loudly theil his group ' aspects of in the through- rogram was were an program t have be~n Actually, are play), tht' hose violins this the Violin • Mr. Olof. gave Mozart A is now to the out of place rhythmic et, is never ica!. With a ever so who most is not to be s mm·e than ''astly dif- ex- un· enable the a lessening pair ES Friday, March 20, 19·64 Movie Review: Yoji~nbo by Rodham E. Tuiioss Of Mice And Men- . Via Sellers 3 Union Parries Skidntorite Thrust Skidmore View Union Reply The following is a reprint of Here is the reply of Featm·e the article \Colleges Persist ln Editor Robet·t S. Hoffman: . Scrutinizing R e g u I a t i 0 n s On I should like to take issue, at- Campuses\ by Skidmore Ex· beit belatedly, with statements chang·e Editor Helen Rodd. It ap· made by Helen Rodd in her arti- The Scotia Art Theater presents this week, a film undamaged By Charles Fenimore pears in the Skidmore news of cle on social regulations (Skid- by either its at times inept translation or its perhaps too familiar Peter Seller's performance in Feb. 20, 1964. more News, Feb. 20, 1964) · It is I Th . · ld h b h t h' · h Sex is still a popular subJ'ect Miss Roctd's contention that Un- p ot. rs movre cou . ave een w a some sop 1strcated imbecile \T e Mouse that Roared\ is ex- · c 11 \' · th t ff f l · tl d · b on the college campus even wn o ege IS a representative on · e s a o a popu ar magazme recen · y rna e It out to · e-an ceptional. His acting in the satire f h b f 1 E t W t T h . M'f · th 1 d 1 ld h b b though I't's not listed I'n the cata- o t e great num er o col eges , as ern . es ern. os 1ro 1 une, m e ea ro e, cou · ave een a a out a harried European duchy h h f d 'ddl d L R ngel . The b k d · 'th 't b ·· d bt h d b 'ogue arJ(I students get no cJ·edi'.t t at · ave oun a mr e groun one a . ac groun musiC, WI · 1 s o vwus e to t e an a out an even more harried h h ·Holl·ywoodei'S could have been I'ncongruoos and stupi'd The concep world 1 · 8 t d f h' h f'oz· pass1'ng the cou1·se. In fact, etween t e very strict colleges , . - a our e orce w Ic t . ld have b th a · d d t' t 1 t th t · f cot1cez·ned pa1·ents w1'll be happy and the very liberal\ with re- wn cou een e n rrow mm e sen 1men a sor a · m- ew actors would dare try and d 't bl fi · h fil 'th l d f d t d h t t B to know, most colleges st1'll de- gar to social restrictions. That evi a · y ms es a · m WI a c ou o us an a ear y e c. ut at which fewer could succeed. He · · 1 Akira Kurosawa, director of Yojimbo, fell into .none of these pits shows his versatility in his comic vote considerable time and energy . .,! IS mamfest Y inaccurate. It is th t I . ead 1'n an country s ffe t d ·b th A · · h d · · to et•ecti'ng a fence of rules and conceivable that, in comparison a Ie r Y · Y o a c e Y e men can way m an· lmg of three disparate roles, cinema and life as is Japan. each superbly acted. regulations between their lusty with penitentiaries, boarding males and nubile females. schools .for wayward girls, simi- Tale of Samurai . T.he product1'on I's amazi'.ngly · I s ·] I f · h · l 'th h · h f 11 h The subJ'ect came up the other .. ,./·· ar c 100 s or nc gir s WI T e story IS t at o a sma town t at lies abject in terror of similar to a moz·e recent Sel·lers · · .. ,.... 19tl t th d ·1· I bl . b Th t' · 1860 d · da.v at Harvard. Fair Harvard, it w .. ,\\ .. :f. •. ,.'.'fif' I 1 cen UtT. mo e_rs, ar: m1 I- riva gam mg mo s. . e Ime IS ; an m politically disrupted film, \Dr. ·Strangelove.·\ Although · · taiy 1 U ht b th f th b · d d th · seems, permits its students to ,.. . · .. : .. ~,@ · acm em1es, mon m1g e Japan, e weapon o e ngan an e samurai is still the razo1· th1's second one 1'·s moz·e ser 1 'ous · .. ~,.,,.... 'd t b \ 'ddl f th d\ entertain women in their dormi- · ... · · · .. ~' sa! o e mi · e o e roa · ~~~Gof:v~~dth!n~~~~~~~h:n~ed~g~~ada~~~::s ~es~~tf~~v~~~ ~~~ ~t~w~ : b~t~ts d~~e f~~~e i~h!ts vi~~~~mte~ ;or!e~~~m~h~~.: a a~~ta~o~e 35 i:ili~~~ .. .,,,~'F''.tjf~i(j}{i:'~~''.~f.~ ~onen~~u~~,~~n~~dbe t~h;~~~~~cf~~ new sword t? ~oin a mob for quick .money and a dog ~arrying vj laugh at the political situation tions that some of the entertain- . 'J':% .. , ,,; dates, and do not have curfews. human hand m 1ts mouth. The high-pitched almost sardomcally light which surrounds hi'm, And al- 0 th th h d u · f · th t · th d 1 ment would startle the city cen- n e 0 er an , nwn, una - music a accompames e og reappears a moment ater when the tho.ugh Sellers' performance I'n f t' t 1 11 d d t \th · · dd 1 • t d d t th t t f th t Th sor in nearby Boston. Independent's Social Room ec wna e Y a · u e 0 as e viewer 1S su en y m ro uce o e s a e o e own. e town \The Mouse\ is not equal to hi's ·t th h'll\ b 't . ff . · I k d · t t ff th · h 1 • h · \Trouble has arisen,\ said Dean monas ery on e 1 Y 1 s m- o !Cia • mee an mcompe en • 0 ers e samurm e P m c oosmg later role as Dr. Strangelove, he John U. Munro, \because what - -------------·------ mates, is permeated with a dis- sides-for a price. still has done a beautiful J'ob. t t .J t h h' h h And so we continue in the familiar fight of the tough, but good, was once considered a pleasant · vey Mudd College in Clarement, or eu a mosp ere w IC as hero against the forces of evil that threaten a peaceful tovm. But Attacks Manhattan privilege has come to be license California, coed visits to dorm turned the shy to celibates and with such exceptions! Kurosawa and his able director of photography to use the college rooms for wild rooms are permitted up to mid- the others, as I take it Skid- Mazagawa, make excellent use of the wide screen. They seldom, if As humbling Field 'Marshall parties and sexual intercourse.\ night on Friday and Saturday, morites have observed when our ever, waste the possible space by directing their shooting straight on Tully Bascomb, Sellers leads an Few colleg-es are as liberal as 5 p.m. on Sunday. Most permis- sex-starved boy-men beseige your in boring and bland family-photo-album shots. There is no compro- army of archers against the Massachusetts Institute of Tech- sh·e colleges require that doors \campus into beings reminis- mise in importance in focus (which I have never before noticed in a United States in the hope of los- nology, where women are allowed be left ajar during such visits. cent of their evolutionary ances- film). I mean by this that objects and characters of secondary impor- ing· the \war\ and receiving (as to visit men's dorm rooms 58 But not Harvey Mudd. tors. (It might be interjected that tance are partialy sacrificed to emphasize the main character or do all defeated nations) foreign hours a week and the only rule \All the doors open to the out- t~fe.ir gto 1 als 1 are not rhe!'lderbeld sibg- action of the scene .... and I don't mean the usual preparations taken aid for the Duchy of Grand Fen- is the Inter-fraternity Council side,\ says Dean Eugene Hotch- nSJI . 1 dcan Y e s s ac I eva e Y to make sure that the \important stuff\ is in focus, I mean an effect wich. In a ludicrous scene, the suggestion that promiscuous ac- kiss. \It would be pretty chilly .0 1 mf 01 .' 1 e.'~ lack of ~dequate so- which makes itself consciously felt by the viewers. Use of light and \army\ arrives on Manhattan tivity should not be permitted. in winter.\ Cia acr ItJes and strmgent reg.u- shadow is fine. There is one scene in particular that emphasizes this during an air raid drill. While Union Co'lege is a representa- lations. Henry Jamesian ladies point. The samurai is being held captive; he is badly beaten; and carousing about New York and tive of the great number of col- Dean Warner A. Wick of the who date from before our cen- one eye is closed. A splash of light actually grows on his cheek- awaiting capture, they stumble leges that have found a middle University of Chicago, where tury (usually 80 rears old) can- p f K 'k' t · rlorm visits are allowed on the t t th t'd f ff t' in this manner we are impressed, an impression tinged with suspense, upon ro essor 1 m z, mventor ground between the very strict no s em e I e o a ec 10n or with the fact of his recognizing a means of escape. of the new and deadly Q-bomb. colleges and the very liberal. wePkenrls, summed up the case lust, though I must admit their Tully captures the Professor, his Women are banned from dorm for liberal visiting privileges demeanor initially discourages Aura of Folk History daughter, an army general, and rooms but they are permitted when he said: \Fortunately col- either.) Perhaps it is partially the film's novel setting, it is certainly the The Bomb. Beating off the Unit- in the social rooms from noon leges are less o~ten thought of as Union's students recently in- things I have mentioned above and the aura of folk tale and folk ed States army with arrows, shot to 8 p.m. on Sunday and Friday places where ch1ldren can be sent! dicated the extent of their sup- wisdom that pervades the film, that makes Yojimbo worth a thou- at the bridge of the Queen Eliza- and from noon tu 1 a.m. on Sat- to be safe and out of trouble al)rlj pressed sexual drives by turning sand Lone Rangers, and I admit of no exceptions, Mr. Heffner and beth, they manage to return to urday. more as places where they will · out, en masse, to look at an un- company. Fenwich. In another typically \An essential difference ex- learn more about the world ~nd I fortunate young girl whose men- In closing, I would like to call attention to a few films that we \Three Stooges\ scene, the world ists between what students think t~emseh·es .. That .mea!ls . takmg 1 tal condition is called, by those have had no chance to review here. If there is anybody on campus powers are brought to their is fitting and proper and what r1~ks, not with then· thmkmg but in the know as well as everybody that has not seen Dr. Strangelove and The Victors, they m·e cer- knees and forced to accept a proper,\ says a Union official. with what they do.\ else, nymphomania. This girl, tainly worth the while of anyone with an active, or just living mind. worldwide peace. their parents think is fitting and The theory that there is chas- who was escorted to a hospital Also since there will be no Concordy next week, I will announce now \We are trying to reach a me- tity in numbers is widely held. for psychiatric observation and that Scotia will be showing Bergman's Winter Light starting next Less Tl.'nse Than \Strangelove\ dian point but with emphasis on John Hopkins University, an all- 1 clandestinely removed several Thursday. It is the second in the trilogy that has been broughtt o a These scenes are so presented the wishes of the parents.\ male school in Baltimore, Mary- I times, induced Union stalwarts r.ontroversial close with The Silence that recently opened in New as to make the film almost far- The colleges that take the land, permits weekend dorm vis-~ to flaunt college rules and make York. I, for one, find this sufficient inducement to not leave on my cical. It certainly is one of the most benign attitude toward boy- its, specifying that if one couple use of their fraternity and dar- vacation early. most amusing treatments of the girl relationships are concentrat- is present, the door must be open; mitory rooms. It must be ad- Campus Calendar March 20-Film Series-\The Mouse That Roared\-EE22-7:00 and 9:00 P.M. !VIarch 21-Dizzy Gillespie Concert, Memorial Chapel, 8:00 P.M. Interfraternity Council Party, Shaughnessy Hall, 10:00 P.M.-2:00 A.M. Tickets for the concert will be available at the door. March 22-Community Vesper Service-Memorial Chapel, 7:30 P.M. \larch 23-Mountebanks Tryouts Session-Music Room of Schaffer Library--7:30 P.M. Civil Rights Committee meets at 4:30 P.M. in Bailey Hall. A tryout session, sponsored by the Mountebanks of Union Col- lege, is to be held on Monday, March 23rd at 7:30 P.M. in the Music Room of Schaffer Library. Casting will be conducted for the available roles in three one-act plays, scheduled for presenta- tion on May 1st and 2nd in Nott Memorial Theater. This program of short plays will conclude the Mountebanks' spring season for this year. All students, regardless of previous associn.tion with the college group, are encouraged to tryout. March 24-Student Council Meeting, Hal House Student Lounge, 7:30P.M. !\larch 25-Air University Aerospace Presentation Team, Memorial Chapel, 8:00 P.M., \U. S. Mission in Space.\ March 26-Convocation-Memorial Chapel-11 :30 A.M.- Dr. George F. MacLeod. )larch 27-Ad-interim scholarship report. There wiJ.l be no ('on- cordiensis next week. f ¥ f ¥ + ¥ ¥ + + + ¥ + + + ¥ ¥ + 'f + ¥ ¥ + ¥ + + + + + ~ t + + ¥ ¥ ¥ 'f + ¥ ¥ ¥ 'l DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118- 120 JAY STREET .......... ··•·\ ••••••••••••••••••••••• ., •••• 6 •••• Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian • American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking 01 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. somewhat serious topic of mod- ed chiefly in the Northeast. if two couples are present, the mitted that the girl knew better ern war. It is not as tense as \Dr. Yale allows dorm room visits door may be closerl but not lock- than to frequent the upper class Strangelove\ nor is \Strange- on weekend evenings. They were ed. independent dorm where the in- love\ as comical as the \Mouse.'' permitted during the week also At Williams College, the school hibitants have presumably never The film lampoons diplomacy as until 1960 when 20 students were 1 paper assailed Harvard's Munro learned, or . already forgotten, the representatives of the world's allowed to resign or were disci- as \absurdly righteous\ and con- Havelock Ellis. In any event, her \great\ powers wile away their plined for importing a 14-year old signed him \to the Puritan Heav- appearanc~ creat~d a c1amor time with a game of Monopoly. girl from a nearby town for en where collected Martyrs to equalle?. m m.agmtude only ,bY Sellers is there again, this time nightly dorm visits. their faith peep at each other the offiCial Umon response which as the Prime Minister of the Across the continent, at Har- through keyholes.\ refused to recogmze the uproar Duchy. v.s the unhealthy result of that Q-Bomb Fizzles a perverted existence euphemistic- one t a 1 ly referred to as a Union Col- Sellers does an amusing take- ' -er • ·• • lege education. That Union men off on royalty in his third role receive adequate, if not superior, as the Duchess of Grand Fenwich. (Continued from Page 2) academic instruction, does not Each scene is designed as a jab In the first movement it is the violinist who clearly leads the ·negate the fact that college poli- at political or militm~y pomposity. orchestra, anticipating and effecting the changes of melodic line and cies concerning l'epression of These successful attempts cui- tempo and pointing out the tense, almost frenetic grip of the music. controversial attitudes and events, minate finally when the Q-bomb Mr. Olof comes to the cadenza considerably before we would ex11ect and restriction of social activi- turns out to be a dud along it and brings us quickly into a passage which has very tie:h't 0 •. es ties characteristic of life in the with everything else made light jazz ideas. The violin, constantly picking up ideas and then dropping real worlrl are not moderate. Un- of in the film. them, returns to the busy and exciting mood of the opening. The ion produces men who understand The real value of a Sellers difficulties here seem to lie with the lack of consistence in the violin democracy, free speech, sex, and film is in its extraordinary abil- part, yet they easily resolve by the end of the movement. love in spite of itself. ity to mock what seems to be In the second movement it is the orchestra which provides the That Union is, to say the least, serious problems. It appears as distracting effects. The violin maintains a solemn, ultra-serio4s, and ronservative, tending to reaction- if Sellers' purpose is to force the almost overly sweet line while the orchestra adds a punctuation of ary, with regard to social regula- wo_r!d to be aJ?l-Use? by its . own assorted, usually very beautiful, sounds. In the third movement the tions is demonstrable. Where ablhty for takmg Itself sen<?us- orchestra and the soloist take their ideas up together and join for many men's schools, including Ivy ly. The Mouse succeeds admJra- an exciting, yet still serious movement. The rhythmic difficulties Leag·ue colleges and small men'!': bly m that end. j which were written into the piece seem extreme with reference to the co!leg·es, and numerous girl's col- results produced, and the feeling of tension, practically unrelenting leges allow membets of the oppo- A new academic-year program I from beginning to end, was a distraction from the musical seeds. site sex in the students' rooms in Spain for American college Olof's performance and intet•pretation could not have been more for different lengths of time, Un- students will be inaugurated next 1 sound had he written the work himself, and it is certainly to its ion permits girl~ in \social August (1964) by the Institute 1 credit that the Albany Symphony was able to handle such a difficult rooms\ on three days of the week. of European Studies, largest U.S. score. The performance was, at times, confusing, but in general the These rooms, in addition to be- sponsor of overseas education. flavour of the piece was well exhibited. ing small and unappealing, can- Chi Psi Delta Upsilon Delta Phi Kappa Sigma Phi Gam PsiU Kappa Alpha Sigma Phi PRESENT: ,- Tears On My Pillow limbo L 0 h y e a h Th~ l~np~.-ials and Lilli~ Anthon-y Just Two Kinds of People in the World s 0 M u c h -, SATURDAY NIGHT JAZZ WEEKEND MARCH 21 From 10-2 at SHAUGHNESSY HALL - 1 SOUTH CHURCH STREET BUSES (Free.!) LEAVING FROM 'SKELLER EVERY HALF HOUR!!!!!!! PRICE: $3.00 a couple BEER INCLUDED All Tickets Must Be Bought in Advance in the Student Activities Office and Dorms. not allow privacy, or provide ap- paratu~ conducive to the proper entertamment of a guest, (radios, phonographs, etc.). As a matter of fact, Union does not even al- low girls in the dorms as late as Skidmore allows men in its dorms on Fridays and Sundays and Skidmore is far from deserv~ ing of the appellation \liberal\ as a woman's institution. It may be that the only thing which pre- vents mass revolt at Union is the absence of strict enforcement of social rules at fraternities, where there are no college em- ployed mommies like the dorm counselors. We have, however come to the point at which on~ professor suggested that we con- vince our trustees to amend their straight-laced ways by hinting that our school is a hotbed of homosexuality. Regardless of the ·veracity of that accusation, Un- ion has been long outdistanced by the new frontiers of the 20th century, and it will not be helped towards' the bicycle rack by mis- representations such as those · presented by Miss Rodd. I hope that, in the future, you will refer to us with more \respect.\ We are old fogies who haven't found the road, no less the middle. HaTUmph!

4 Qlournr Published Fridays during the school year bY the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na- tional Advertising Representative: National Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 4~0 Madison Ave., N. Y. C. I\ditorinl Office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, Sc!le- nectady l'rinting Company, 60 2 Broadway. Enteral in the Sche- nectady Post Office as Second Class }!ail ~latter. Subscription 15c a coi)Y: $3 a year delivered anywhere in the lTnitP.d Rtates. SEXIOR 80.\RI> LAHHY HOROWITZ 'G:;.. . ... 346-9895. }!ARK ODI~~ZlXG[<;H '63 ........... 393-97RO Hll'HAHD Jo;fl.DOI\R '63 ................ 346-98~9 ltUlll~HT 1'. HDI•'l•'~'IA:-.: 'G6 .. DA \\Ill \'OLI'OIA;\; '66 . . . .. . ...... gditot•-in-Chief . ........... Business Manager ........ ::llanaging Editor .................................. :>;ews Editor . .............................. Sports Editor ............................. Feature Editor HOBI<mT !'. HOI•'!•'}!.\;\; '6:0 . IUI\HAHD I'Ili'TOX '66. \\'!Ll.!A~-1 T. \\'!:\XI•: 'H. . ................................ Contributing Editor Larry EisPnln:\l\H 'ti-l. .Marl< ta,ronl • 6:i. \\'illiam ~aufftUH 'til). Arthur :\Iorgpn~tt:>orn 'titL .. Arnold Katz • 66 .............. . :\larlt Kasowitz '66 ..... . Glen Hulzhaucor '013. Henry .H.ushmP.yer '66. Hl<-hanl Hesc·h '66 ... .:\liehaPl Ht)oda k 'U tL Freu Dill 'GL . Rol.J<>•·t Klein '6U Jeremy Ja)' Puul 't: l .\1 ;suhmlu:< ·uu.. .. Pa.ul L.lving~ton •6-t Hod Tullmm 't.iti Jt::SlOR BOARD . ................................... Adviser ................... ::\Iake-L'p Eultor .......... !'holography Editor , ... Assistant ~ews Editor . .... Assjstant News gditor . ................................... Assistant News Editor ........... Associate News Editor ... Associate News Editor ........................ Associate News ditor . ..... AAsistant Business !\l\anager . ..... '\Assistant Hports Editor ..................................... Cartoonist . :\'ational AdY<>rtlsing Manager ..................... Proof Read<>r ' Associate News Editor ....... Contributing Editor (.'untributlng Editor Policy Statement Mr. Kleinman's letter (which appears on page 4) raises some questions about the responsibilities of the Concord- iensis to the college community. We feel it would be wise to clarify our views on this situation. The character of a newspaper does not remain static; it changes with the men at the helm, as indeed it should. Each new editor that comes in brings to the job a different background, a different feeling about what is important and what is not. Thus from year to year different spheres of academic life are given \the big play-up\ and the direc- tion of the newspaper shifts slightly. It is not true that the incumbent Editor-in-Chief grooms someone carefully and selects as his successor someone with views identical to his own. A careful review of the reigns of the past five editors will show that they had different tastes and the paper reflected those tastes and was different every year. At the College Editors conference held last February, James Wechsler of the New York Post said that the sole function of a college newspaper was to cause trouble. By exaggerating faults, possibly even \sensationalizing\ news, a newspaper might cause a furor that would result in a re- examination of the situation and that, said Mr. Wechsler, would be a great accomplishment. At the other end of the spectrum there are those who feel that the college news- paper should be put out by the public relations department who would be sure to exaggerate strong points and possibly even tell little white lies about our utopia here. Our feeling is that the proper course lies deflected to- ward Mr. Wechsler's end of the spectrum. The Concord- iensis is not, and should never become, a propaganda tool of the college. Its function is to criticize and constantly be a thorn in the side of anyone who falters in their duty to the college. The problems arise, of course, when our con- ception of someone's duty to the college differs from their own. In such a situation we serve a useful purpose by pre- senting the other side of the argument to the campus com- munity in order that they may decide for themselves who is right. Thus we shall be stingy, though not totally lacking, in our praise and free with our criticism. If something is done well we are as happy about it as anyone else. But we cannot pause for pats on the back because there are always more pressing issues that need airing and there is so little time in which to air them. We are confining this discussion to editorial policy but hasten to point out that we are not minimizing our other function - keeping the campus fully up to date on all events of interest. This of course is of the utmost impor- tance for any newspaper. But it is not with this that Mr. Kleinman takes issue, and we trust he is satisfied with the job we are doing here. At the end of an editor's reign it is customary for him to paint the picture of the college as he sees it. After hav- ing been very close to all the publicized events (and un- publicized ones), he is quite qualified to do this. Thus if a pessimistic picture is presented it is done in good con- science, not motivated by a desire to hurt the school but rather to provoke it, anger it, and cause it to reevaluate the situation and correct it. And if pessimism will cause reevaluation and improvement, then the man who pre- sented that view has done his job, and has done it very well indeed. Friday, March 20, 1964 Friday, Mar• •MR • bll.t.fSPif. Do 'fOVftND IWI\t-ENr ~NIFeS(/iTIOf'w:> ~~ iiECENI IH)tl'rltriDN~ t~F 19r:JJ t€N.(HO((AL fl/lRfiAJ(rEMENr<:. ro V'llz.z, '1HIIov6H fNil.Jr.;reuet1'Mt l!vttw·vARoe, t(E.E.PJNa tNto YfJMP. MUs1t. rHil~VItd~ uAJUJ;uuou~ A{(H1JJt.ArloN i\ Letters to the Editor • • • This week the CONCORDIEN- SIS is instituting a policy of an- swering those letters to which a reply from the newspaper is per· tinent. Concordiensis responses will be printed immediately be- low the letters in question. To the Editor of Concordiensis: I find your abundance of mis- information concerning the In- terim program (at least I assume that is what you were refer1•ing to) at Smith College appalling. Interim is neither an opportunity to \take courses for no credits\ nor \to take a vacation.\ Interim- provides three weeks to conduct independent research, with or without faculty aid. Interim can never be deter- mined a failm·e. Too many gain- ed too much from the experience. The faculty felt that this pro- gram did not suit .Smith's needs and saw fit to vote it down. No one has thought of Smith as dis- graced . . . merely disappointed. Lynda Siegel Editor's Note: We apologize for any misin- formation presented in the March 6th issue of Concordiensis (!On· cerning the Smith college interim period. However, we feel the point of the editorial was mis- interpreted. Whether or not Smith has an interim period, a vacation period or any other kind of period is not the point - the point was that Smith tried an experimental program and had the courage to change it when it was found to be incongruous with the college's needs. For this we praised them and our refet•ence to their failure was a facetious one. We are grateful for the large number of letters we received from Smith and regret that we cannot publish them all due to lack of space. To the Editor of Concordiensis: The recent issues of The Con- cordiensis have presented an ex- tremely pessimistic view of the state of Union College. Although I am now one year removed from Union, I find it hard to believe that my college has suffered complete degeneration. The February 28, Concordiensis editorial makes a sweeping in- dictment of every aspect of the c·ollege. Such an extreme view seems highly incongruous with Union's fine reputation at gradu- ate schools and in the business world. In light of this incongru- ity, I feel that the Concordiensis must reevaluate the criteria it is using to judge the college. From many of your recent arti- cles, I gather that the Concordi- ensis is advocating a \me too\ standard for Union College. Al- most every issue of the news- paper contains a prominent arti- cle about the latest changes at other schools. These not always accurate reports (e.g. The March 6, editorial, \A Failure?\ gross- ly misstates the cha1·acter of the experimental calendar program at Smith College.) leave this reader with the impression that the newspaper wants Union to try and be like Amherst, Wil- liams, Wesleyan, Haverford and any other colleges that happen to he in the news at the moment. In- deed, I was surprised that the Concordiensis did not print an editorial demanding that the trus- tees follow the University of Ro- chester and build a co-ed dormi- tory. I suggest that the editors of the Concordiensis attempt to look past the numerous college press releases and see if they discover that colleges such as Amherst, Williams and others are faced with the same p1•oblems that seem to be plaguing Union. I know that Dartmouth, the school I am now attending, has a full range of problems which encom- pass almost everything from cri- tical academic defficiencies, to difficulties with its Great Issues program to a basketball team that won two games while losing· twenty-three. I have often heard undergraduates complain about conservative trustees, but Dart- mouth is not ready to call the situation hopeless. No one can deny that Union has problems, but we should not be ready to concede that these problems are insurmountable. Union has a unique set of needs, and it is the duty of the Con- cordiensis to make these needs known and to recommend, not what Amherst and Williams are doing, but what actions Union should take to meet its specific needs. Union is an excellent school, and I am sure that all concerned with it expect the college to be- come even better. It is time for the newspaper's opinion to change from pessimism to, what I feel, is a more justifiable view of op- timism. Only then can the paper become an effective instrument for action. Neil H. Kleinman, '63 Editor's Note: The reply to this letter can be found in this week's editm·ial. To the Editor of Concordiensis: The Student Council apparently felt it was its duty to endorse the efforts of Professor Clements and three students in a Negro Voter Registration Drive. Little may be said in criticism of the individual motives of those con- cerned, for it is most certainly their right to express themselves on such an important issue. It is, however, not the duty, obli- gation, or right of the Student Council as a collective body to express its position in this, or any other area of a similar na1 ture. Questions of Civil Rights at·e \moral\ questions in one sense, but let us not be so blind, or so full of amateur idealism, that we avoid the countless political im- plications which arise from moral controversy. Any effort, regard- ]Pss of' how \conservative\ or \tasteful'' it might be, to further the rights of the Negro, is politi- ca 1 , and therefore partisan. Mr. Berenson seems to think that since such a great moral issue is involved, all could not help but favot· the plans of Professor Cle- ments. I don't, and however dis- anpointing it may be to the coun- cil, it is not their position to tell anyone what I do. The Student Council should realize that when they support an action of this kind, they - for all practical purposes - act as spokesmen for the entire col- lege community. Those who dis- sented in the council's endorse- ment acted correctly. Their per- sonal viewpoints with regard to Civil Rights need not be consid- ered, for they are not at issue. It is only that the council as a whole should not, and cannot at- tempt to categorize student opin- ion in any national political (or moral) issue, no matter how noble their intentions. Nor have they the right to determine what i01 moral and what is political. These problems are to be l'esolv- ed in the minds of interested, intelligent individuals. The rea- sons for their particular stand are in a sense, their own \priv- ate property\ which cannot be rightfully usurped by anyone. Mess'rs. Berenson, Fazio, and Morrison should exercise care that their enthusiasm in this and similar issues manifests itself in the proper areas. If they wish to express themselves publicly, and participate in effective ac- tion, the National YWCA Voter Registration Drive, and the Northern Student's Movement, etc., provide fitting opportunities. Even if the Student Council feels the vast majority of the Student Body is in sympathy with their action, it cannot justify such an endorsement. However disappointing, council 1·epresentatives are elected only to speak for students on issues which concern them, and their re- lation to the college. When they consider it their obligation to speak as representatives of the students in areas of political and moral controversy, they greatly overestimate both their duty and their competence. Hunter D. Brown Kappa Alpha To the Editor of Concordiensis: If I am correct, the March 13 issue of Concordiensis set some- thing of a pt·eeedent. It didn't hail the annual hiring of a football coach or the t·etirement of one of the ever decreasing number of thirty-year men. Instead, it rec- ognized the enormous loss to our college of someone who will be long remembered by a countless number of Union men, if not in the musty archives of the Schaf- fer Library vault. For those countless numbers, let me take this opportunity to write a word of thanks to you for your intelli- gence to recognize merit instead of your customary courage to find fault. For ten years, Gifford Wingate has been a leader in the fight to EXCLUSIVE EUROPEAN FILMS! raise the cultural standards of the college and Schenectady com- munities. The task wasn't easy. What makes his achievement so remarkable was that he succeed- ed in the face of enormous ob- stacles without compromising his artistic integrity. The obstacles should be mentioned but not stressed: permanent 1 a c k of ~funds, apathetic student body, shortage of talent, inadequate facilities, etC'. Such factors plague every small college thea- tre in varying degrees, although certainly Union has more than its share. In spite of such adverse condi- tions, the productions of the Mountebanks in the last decade have been distinguished for their courag·e, ambition, vitality and competence. No institution or· person could ever ask more; in- deed, they should rejoice at their good fortune for being able to see them. Such were the produc- tions under Gifford Wingate's direction. They stand as defiant p1•oof that E'ducational theatre · means more than mediocre stand- ards, memorizing lines, and \Thl:' Man Who Came to Dinner.\ Civi<· playhouses can be counted on for that. Instead, educational thea- tre can be the exciting, stimulat- ing, enriching experience om hearts and minds demand it to be. Enough about the professional side of Gifford Wingate's car- eer; those who do not know him will judge him fairly and praise (Continued on Page 5) NOW THRU WED ! COMPLETE SHOWS at 7 and 9 117 Mohawk Ave., Scotia \A MASTERPIECE OF FILM MAKING\ - TIME MAGAZINE \A MAGNIFICENT IRONIC PARABLE\ - SATURDAY REVIEW ''YOJIMBO'' RECORDS OF COMEDY - JAZZ - CLASSICAL - FOLK AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS TAPES AND RECORDS FOR RENTAL ON CLUB PLAN APEX MUSIC KORNER State St. at Corner of Broadway For three Generations ••. Those Who Know. Have been recommending - HERSHEL Phone FR 7-1112 MAURICE B. WAlTER Maurice B. Graubart & Sons ''3 Union Graduates in G.raubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY Lib Dr. Edw of the kindly tbelibJ Dr. VI Campu By At the 1•e lreprElse:ntatb Comn consent submitti in tl libr: periodi< requires sorr. Funds buc C4 come fro come, such ~ budgeted in · prise the inc endowments · cifically de! purposes by_ come from t. ies greatly. produce in< $1,000 per y ($.1,100 ), w 200), Class months 196~ R. Coe ($1,: rock ( $3,600 son ($2,100 endowments come under lowest prod This income the purchas• subjects, or ed, therefor for the pure subject. Fm for Far Eas1 $94, the inc endowment specifically East, plus stricted Hit The fundE brarian are, ed for speci stricted. Tr this categor dowments d' areas not SJ in the curri the Devlin which woul Catholics. \ falling with be charged 1 gardless of · . mended by brary staff the Philoso] unrestricted gory come dowments. to purchase ence books, · disciplines, • rollecti ons. (Contin ner when 1 nne of the minutes bef covered. Th lieves that could have set off the er ·of the o thing befot' and neither to the caus< I Damage Nearly all . eluding clo1 washed to damage to 1 paid for b~ and Siegler other Fresr mates left : mester. Roo again this : STUDJ • Colle • Colle STUDE Gl LC Books Summer' Schen: Bu 3~ SCH PH Agents For S.S. Compa c.

20, 1964 of ectady com- easy. so he succeed- ob- his obstacles d but not lack of body, inadequate h factors allege thea- although more than condi- ns of the last decade ed for their and or· more; in- at their able to the produc- Wingate's as defiant theatre · stand- s, and \Thl:' nner.\ Civi1· on for thea- g, stimulat- our it to professional car- know him and praise 5) NS VIEW ER 7-1112 WAlTER Friday, March 20, 19-64 Library Budg·et olan Explains At1nounced; Expenditures Dr. Edward Tolan, Librar- of the Schaffer Library kindly consented to pub- the library budget in Con- Dr. Tolan explains the in the following arti- Concm·diensis sincerely llloPes that the publication of library budget will be very shortly by the oul:J1limtticm of the budget of Campus Bookstore. By E. K. Tolan At the 1•equest of the student JreprElse:ntatives on the Faculty Li- Library Budget ACCOUNT 211-C4: PERIODICALS, ETC. Periodicals and Serials ............................. . Library of Congress Cards & Catalogues Binding ....................................................... . Microfilm ..................................................... . ACCOUNT 212-C4: BOOKS 12,655.00 1,600.00 4,000.00 2;000.00 Funds Resez·ved for Departmental Recommendations 20,255.00 5 Letter . . . 1 Mouse Roars . . (Centinued from Page 1) Jonas. • • , ( qontmued fr<;nn Page 4) / the Duchy of Grand Fenwick (Continued from Page 1) h~m r1ghtly by his work. ThC?se It is so tiny that its sole tection and success of the Ameri- ?f us, however, who had the pl'}V- source of revenue is the sale of can way of life, independent of t!~ctge .to know and , work w1th local wine to the United States. foreign influence. Unilateralists l~Im, will rel'!lember h1m as mu.ch However, when a California co,m- believed that (1) America was for what he. IS a~. for what he d1?. pany introduces a less expenswe safe from ever being attacked by To .us, he IS G1f! a s~mpathehc imitation, the economy ?f the a foreign antagonist and (2) the ad.visor, a sparklmw Wit! a close diminutive country faces disaster. United States could not gain by fnend. Here, then, Is Umon's loss The sly Prime Minister of Fen- aiding foreign countries. the loss of the type of man who wich contrives a clever trick to Pearl Harbor Effects is the wealth and backbone of our counteract the monetary loss suf- The events of December 7, type of college. Those who look fered and thereby preserve his for ~alvatio!J in a football. coach country. He decides his cou~try 1941, however, caused many to oJ· h1de behmd an academic robe will declare war on the Umted change their minds. Senator Van~· wi'l misunderstand or never un- States, be promptly defeated, and denberg, formerly a leader in the derstancl what this loss means. then harvest the moneta1·y bene- isolationist movement is quoted Gif Wingate's departure will fits that the U. S. always confers as having said, \My convictions leave Union richer for the new on defeated nations. He thus mo- regarding international coopera- theatre he helped to build, and for ·bilizes an army of twenty areh- tion and collective security for the memories he helped to in- ers, sails into the New York City I peace took firm form on the af- spi·re. But it leaves Union poorer harbor and awaits capture. How- ternoon of the Pearl Harbor at- by his mere absence. Rightly, ever, while the city's populace. is tack. That day ended isolationism Concordiensis realizes this. Just- underground during an air-raid for any realist.\ ly, it wishes him well. Gratefully, drill, the bumbling commander ac- According to Jonas, after Pearl so do we all. cidently apprehends Professor Committee, and with the consent of that Committee, I submitting to you, for publi- in the Concordiensis, the library budget fo1· books periodicals. This statement requires some explanation. Restricted Unrestricted Total I . Harbor most isolationists realiz- Robert Skloot '63 Kikintz, the inventor of the hew · ed that ''unilateral action by the P.:::l. Thanks a lot. Regards to \Q'~ bomb .. With th~ bomb in United States was not only in- all \the boys.\ And send me an their possessiOn, Fenwi,ch b~comes Funds budgeted in account 211 C4 come from general college in- come, such as tuition, etc. Funds budgeted in account 212 C4 com- . prise the income from 40 different endowments which have been spe- . cifically designated for library purposes by the donors. The in- come from these endowments var~ ies O'reatly. There are six which produce income in excess of $1,000 per year: May I. C. Baker ($.1,100), Walter C. Baker ($3,- 200), Class of 1897 ($1,500 - 71 months 1962-63), The Rev. John R. Coe ($1,100), Oscar ~· Hitch- I rock ( $3,600), Mary Lomse J ohn-1 son ($2,100). There are twelve. endowments which produce in- come under $100 per year, the lowest producing $18 per year. This income may be restricted for the purchase of books on specific subjects, or it may be unrestrict- ed, therefore permitting its use for the purchase of books on any subject. For example, the budget for Far Eastern History comprises $94 the income from the Kluge end~wment which is designated specifically for books on the Far East, plus $130 from the unre- stricted Hitchcock fund. The funds reserved for the Li- brarian are, again, either l'estrict- ed for specific purposes or unre- stricted. The restricted funds in this category come from nine en- dowments designated for books in areas not specifically represented in the curriculum. For example, the Devlin Fund is for books which would be of interest to Catholics. A recommended book falling within this category would be charged to the Devlin Fund re- gardless of whether it was recom- . mended by a member of the li- brary staff or by a member of the Philosophy Department. The unrestricted funds in this cate- gory come from 20 different en- dowments. These funds are used to purchase bibliographies, refer- ence books, large sets, etc. for all · disciplines, and to fill gaps in the rollecti ons. • • • (Continued from page 1) ncr when the fire developed in nne of the beds. They left only minutes before the blaze was dis- covered. The fire department be~ lieves that a cigarette, which could have fallen into the bed, set off the conflagration. Neith- er· of the occupants noticed any- thing before he left the room, and neither ventured a guess as to the cause of the fire. Damage Nil Damage was not extensive • Nearly all personal property, in- cluding clothes, only had to be washed to remove the soot. The damage to the room itself will be paid for by the college •. Jan~ey and Siegler have moved m with other Freshmen whose room- mates left at the end of last se- mester. Room 330 will not be used again this year. STUDENT TRAVEL • College Tours • College Study Programs STUDENT & FACULTY GROUP TOURS Arranged at LOWEST PRICES Books Now Open for Summer Vacations in Europe Schenectady Travel Bureau, Inc. Est. 1930 328 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. PHONE FR 7-8506 Agents For All leading Airlines- S.S. Companies ..._ Railroads dnd Car Rental Cos. DIVISION I Art ....................................... . Classics ............................... . English ............................... . Modern Languages ........... . Music .................................. .. DIVISION II Economics ........................... . Political Science ................ .. American History ............ .. European History ............ .. Far East History .............. .. Latin American History ... . Philosophy .......................... .. Religion .............................. .. Sociology ............................ .. DIVISIO:N III Biology ................................ .. Chemistry ........................... . Geology ............................... . Mathematics ....................... . Physics ................................ .. Psychology ........................ .. DIVISION IV Civil Engineering .............. .. Electrical Engineering .... .. Mechanical Engineering .. .. MISCELLANEOUS Industrial Administration .. Physical Education ........... . Funds Reserved for the Librarian: 300.00 290.00 58.00 540.00 94.00 115.09 445.10 301.30 290.00 88.00 141.67 80.00 500.00 500.00 1,200.00 510.00 300.00 500.00 442.00 500.00 130.00 150.00 300.00 185.00 300.00 500.00 305.00 410.00 700.00 412.00 159.33 320.00 500.00 100.00 General Purposes ........................ 3,206.52 8,421.09 TOTAL Blood Drive ••• j Plays . (Continued from Page 1) . • • 500.00 300.00 1,200.00 800.00 300.00 500.00 500.00 540.00 500.00 224.00. 150.00 300.00 300.09 300.00 500.00 750.10 301.30 700.00 700.00 500.00 301.00 400.00 500.00 500.00 100.00 11,627.61 23,294.10 Should he fail to meet the re-j (Continued from Page 1) quirement~ he may still be able plays were by Rodham Tulloss to have his name place? on t~e and Paul Livingston. These plays l~boratory report, and Will be eh- will be directed by students. Olf's g1ble for the same advantages as play will be directed by John if he had donated. Thompson and Art Campbell and Trophy Awarded Radell's by John Kennedy and A three foot trophy is awarded J~v William~. Both productions to the fraternity that has the wtll be, the fust ~or th~ author~. hig·hest percentage of brothers The Pirandello ptece will be di- participating. If any fraternity rected by Ralph Radell and Rez wins the trophy three years in a Williams. Tryouts are scheduled row it is automatically allowed for Monday, March 23 at ~even­ to retire the award. The squad- thirty in the Scbl'!ffer L1hr~n·y ron in the ROTC corps with the Music Room. highest percentage of participa- tion will have its name engraved on a plaque displayed at Hoadley House. If there are any questions, they are to be referred to Ray Pike, Gerold Griffin, assistant chair- men, or Robert Francello, advis- ory chairman. The Mountebanks r e c e n t 1 y elected officers for the coming year. Charles P!tnkenier, w~s elected President. The other offi- cers elected are John Beckerman, Vice-President, David Hall, Sec- retary, and Dee Singer, Treasu- urer. .......,..,..¥ T TV T 'IT • y y 'I¥¥'¥+ tV+ f t f f T f T Y if T f V 9 T Y Y f Y ¥ i y y y +' 9 DIAMANTE'S Enjoy our Fi,ne Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOTT ST. OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M. - SUNDAYS 5 P .M.-3 A.M. ................................ ., .................. . Down to Louis', let us ~o, Let the lager freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR .d.-8917 ~ effective in preventing wars else- extra copy. the most .fe~red natwn m the where in the world - something world. This IS where the humor they had always tacitly admitted really turns into farce. - but was no longer able to pre- To the Editor of Concordiensis: Jazz Adjunct vent an attack on America - On March 25 from 10 A.M. to Mouse That Roat·ed, the only something they had always vigor- 4 P.M. and March 26 from 9 A.M. official entertainment on the Fri- ously denied.\ to 3 P.M. the Red Cross will hold day night of Jazz Weekend, is a Even though Hawaii ;vas not a Blood Drive in the Alumni Gym. satire written about the modern part of the continental United It is sponsored by the Freshman world and its p1·esent day policies. States, there was little question Class for the college in general The events that occur after the that the outlying territories be- and the Arnold Air Society for capture of the \Q\ bomb are longing to the United States had the A.F.R.O.T.C. Corps. somewhat absurd, but produce in to be protected from attack. Thus A three foot trophy is awarded a jocular manner a special effe(!t ended the early isolationist move- to the fraternity with the high- on the audience. The film, al- ment. est percentage of members par- though ludicrous in parts, is a Problems of Leadership ticipating. Any fraternity win- worthwhile picture to be seen. The American foreign policy from ning· the contest three years in a humor in it typifies the present- this time had necessarily to row automatically retires the day high English humor. The wit change Jonas points out two maj- trophy. In the R.O.T.C. Corps., of Peter Sellers, stal'ring in three or changes: first, suppo1•t by the squadron with the highest roles, may seem quaint at times, former isolationists like Vanden- percentage of participation will but it is unique in its own way. berg for the United Nations, dur- have its name engraved on a This form of satire is rarely seen ing Roosevelt's administration; plaque which is displayed at in American movies. Thi::; dis- and, later, the initiation of the Hoadley House. tinctive form of droilery in Mouse Truman Doctrine and the Mar- Raymond Pike, 67, That Roared, as Bosley Crowther shall Plan. Emerging from World General Chairman of The New York Times said, is War II at the head of one ot' two a \traditional Mack Sennett remaining powe1· blocs, the Unit- Farce.\ eel States \had moved from isola- lationism of the American pub- --------- tionism to conscious world lead- licThe \new isolationism\ of the ership.\ turn of the decade \could not However, with world leader- lay claim to any coherent and ship came certain risks, namely logical set of beliefs, according the Korean War and the Berlin to Jonas. It was new seen that Blockade, leaving America in the neutrality was impossible, as thankless job of protector of the America could no longer shy free world. Rising in opposition away from its \moral\ duty to to this foreign policy were Robert protect members of the Western Taft, Joseph Kennedy, and Her- Bloc from the evils of the \Rus- bert Hoover, among others, who sian protagonists.\ asked for re-evaluation of foreign Failure of Unilateralism aid. '\fhe ne w isolationism\ was Hoover saw America as self- in reality no isolationism at all sufficient, lacking any need to . . . it was little more than an support Europe. Taft stated, \I emotional outburst by some of do not believe it is at all clear the old isolationists, who we1·e that the Russians contemplate a trying _ and failing _ to come military conquest of the world\ to grips with the modern world,\ But the iso 1 ationism of the early said Jonas, concluding that \for fifties was not the same as that a world power such as the United in the thirties. The discussion States, unilatemlism s i m p 1 y initiated by the Taft-Hoover posi- means dispensing with the serv- tion was \primarily concerned ices of allies without obtaining with the extent of military and compensating benefits thereby.\ economic aid to other nations, not with the basic necessity for such assistance.\ Defeat of Isolationism The election of 1952 was a de- feat for the isolationist move- ment. N aminated by the Demo- cratic pal'ty was Adlai Stevenson, bv the Republicans Dwight Eisen- hower,. neither of whom could even vaguely be referred to as isolationists. The election of the former commander of the N.A. T.O. forces in Europe was a ~ef­ inite statement of the non-Iso- EASTERN AVE. Quick Clean Cleaner WASH 25c DRY 10c 835 EASTERN AVE. VAH CURLER MUSIC SHOP 501 State Street ~ RECORDS MUSIC. JAZZ POPS Student Discounts CLASSICS -FOR SALE- Harley Davidson Motorcycle GOOD CONDITION Phone FR 2-7889 ------·-------- Be a good egg this Easter Hatch your plans now. Tele· phone the folks and tell them when to expect you home for the Easter holi· days. And if you can't get home-a telephone call is the next best thing to be· ing there! ® ~~! !~~h!~~~~~~h~! MacLeod •••• (Continuerl from Page 1) .;,·; · in St. Paul's Cathedral in LoiJc;lqn since the 18th century. ··, · Dr. MacLeod will visit , t\Vp classes on Friday, March 27. ··At 8:30 A.M. he will sit in on P,ro 7 fessor Gati's government class in 304 Bailey Hall, and at 11:30 ne will be in Professor Johnson's re- ligion class in 109 Bailey Hall. The college community is also fn- vited to attend. CIVIL ENGINEERS Wr.ite for application and further information to Engineering Unit E New York City Personnel Department 299 Broadway, New York 7, N.Y.

FIRE IN WEST PAGE 1 Concordy Sports SUPPORT THE BLOOD DRIVE George Flood, who will be tak- ing over the reins as head foot- ball mentor for the Garnet be- ginning next season, has an- nounced that there will be a meet- ing of all candidates for the ~quad on Monday night at 7:30 in Alumni Gym. Mr. Flood, who is presently completing his sev- enth year as coach at the Rome Free Academy where he has com- piled an impressive record of 3:i wins, opposed to 15 losses and 3 ties, will only be here for the one day so it is imperative that all attend. \TTY¥¥f't''ftT'ffttfttfttf¥tfTTffTftf¥fYTttt'T'T'ffi't• nave's :Squire $hop Just received our H.I.S. SEERSUCKER and GENUINE INDIAN MADRAS BERMUDAS at 4.95 and $6.95 respectively 326 ST A'JE SJ Dolly to 5:!0 M. • Tues. & Thur. 'til 9 Timt; C£nlt;.- Jt;wt;I£1'S \BUY WITH CONFIDENCE\ 428 State St. FR 4-0183 Round Hearth: STOWE'S GREAT SKI DORM Warm, casual, glowing with good companionship, the Round Hearth's the lodge to rest and refresh your- self. Hearty fare, dancing, relaxing around the famous circular fireplace -it adds up to fun! Only $7 daily with two meals, $45 weekly. Write for folder or Tel. STOWE, Vt., ALpine 3-7223. ********* KNAPP SERVICE LTD. lO::lOState St. Dl 6-5900 VOLKSWAGEN & IMPORT • PARTS & SERVICE REPAIRS Experience and Ability T.ime Out: Tweet Tweet by Dave Volkman Notwithstanding the general rumor circulating to the contrary, it is spring. It's time for spring football, Casey Stengel, and May snow :storms tra-la-la. Jackson's Gardens is once ag~in open for business, as soon as the snow melts, and Easter recess deadlines are fast dosing in on prospective graduates. Since Casey Stengel and his precocious Mets (wise beyond their years) are providing mot~e sports copy than the post season basket- ball tournaments and Toby Lustig combined, it's felt in this corner that a compendium of Mets deeds is not out of place. At the beginning of the training season an enthusiastic bunch of youths reported to the camp, among them Stengel, George Weiss, and Pe~muts. The opening game of the Grapefruit League saw the Mets lose their third straight opener to St. Louis. After a loss in Mexico to a local team, the team needed a victory bad to keep up morale. Stengel staged an intrasquad game to make sure that at least half the team would be in good spirits. Alas, the results? A tie. Knowing a good thing, the Mets went on to tie eight other games so far this spring. It is enlightening to note various trends in the play of the Mets. Two spt·ings ago, in their first year, the Mets surprised many by winning a gooll part of their pre-season contests. Unfortunately, a nine game losing streak at the beginning of the season hurt the team, as did the fifteen game streak and the various other losses that added up to three figures. Next season the Mets learned from experience, that is to say, they lost all their pre-season games. This yielded immediate results by making the initial losing streak eight games. This season the byword is change. The Mets, it is believed in informed eircles, fully intend to tie aU their pre-season games, thus giving them thirteen points and a Stanley Cup playoff birth. Dutchmen's Doings Wanted: An experienced guide for prospective varsity tennis players. Room for advancement nil, job security nonexistent. There seems to be no particular rush, so apply casually to UC Athletic Depmtment. Yale's freestyle relay team was favo1·ed to win the .event in the Eastern Championships held at Dartmouth last week. However, in a qualifying heat one of the Yale swimmers hit an Army man while 1 going into his turn, this is usually grounds for automatic disqualifi- cation. Had they been disqualified Union would have moved up to sixth place and gotten one point. No action was taken. Ironically, Yale was disqualified in the finals after jumping in the pool to cele- brate their victory while other teams were still swimming. Since Union did not swJm in the finals, it did not score. 11 V 11 PATTERN Bright chrome en- $13 95 graved \V\ pat· tern. : Time Center Jewelers I 428 State Street FR 4-0183 --ARROW_;_ DECTON won't give you the right time of day This remarkable shirt retains its crisp, just-ironed look all day long because it's 65% Dacron* and 3 5% cotton ... the ideal wash and wear blend that made \Look Ma- no wrinkles\ a famous campus expression. Tailored with the popular Sussex button-down collar in true Ivy fashion and tapered to trim you in every way except price. •ou Pont R.T.M. Long sleeves-only $6.95 Short sleeves-only $ 5 .. 9 5 FA cc p Vol. 95 · Na1 At Union Cc tered chapt< Pi engineeri be inducted ternity on · Twenty-one us well as u ni memb ~rs the local hoi · dignitaries . . the same t1 After In a prh he!d in the · ter at two o ·. noon. the 1 tary-treasur honor socie1 the initiatio · ing the indt tail hour v li ppe, chain General Ele• the societie Memorial C talk, on the pea11 Comm1 can industr event of th the public. ' ciety wi1l which Presi< will speak. N• The Unio: to be grant for its ind1 Beta Pi req1 versity to < ing curricul however, U only civil : eers, not i engineering The first menical dis< this Sunday orial Chape series will ·. bates betw< Protestant r Catholic pd Vatical 1 At Sunda~ speakers wil M. Boyd, l Methodist < and the Rev. assistant at gelist Rom: Schenectady. their debate Vatican Cou meaning to as of Rev. Boy• Col:ege, Dr~ he also earn vinity Degr~ to the Wor et1ce held i 1961. Fatl graduate of .. Seminary aJ ary. The modl debate will ard ·Russell the Albany Suece~ \Divine - An Explana be the topic ing, April l speakers w trand T. F I' Helen's Ca ' nectady and Scheibert, 1 Lutheran < Prof. Norm as moderate At the Rev. Ralph Street PJ Schenectadjl as Phelan, chaplain at guest speal he \The J1 God: The ( ing as mo( meeting in Hev. Lee F. tor of the Council of 1

