contrary, and May open for are their on basket- corner c bunch of Weiss, saw the a loss in keep up that at results? other Mets. many by a hurt the losses rned from This eight believed on games, birth. players. There Athletic in the in a while 1 disqualifi- up to Ironically, to cele- Since FACULTY COLUMN Page 2 POLITICAL SCENE Page 3 Founded at Union College 1n 1877 Vol. 95- No. 21 SCHENECTADY, N.Y. FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 1964 PRICE 1 5 CENTS Phillippe to Address Tau Beta Pi Initiates Faculty Honors, and Students Lauded With Grants, a.nd Sch·olorships National President Presides 1 At Honor Society Initiation Lowen, Eisenstadt, ~· ---------- .... Beckerman Named St. ·Andrews Scholar Schwarz Honored Union College's newly char-!>----- - I tered chapter of the T~u Be~a I R• h G Eisenstadt Wins Grant Pl • engineering honor SOC, Jety Will .g ts roup d ' 1 f Professor Raymond Eisensta t be inducted into t.1e natwna ra- S . t ernity on Saturday, April, 11. has received a National c1ence · d w •11 D • Foundation grant to study the Twenty-one junrors an semors, 1 ISCUSS bchaviot· of metals under cyclical ·•s well as a total of' sixty alum- ~ T E 'I stress. He will study at the ni memb ~rs of Beta au psr on, Smith Laboratories. for Solid L he local ho!WI' society, and other 'T D • 1 . I · 1 I · 'f t l t oter rtve State Physics of Syracuse Um- tiignitaries . wtl >C 1111 ta e< a ' · versity under the guidance of Dr. . the same tune. Vo'ker Weiss and Dr. H. W. Liu, Afternoon Initiation An open meeting of the Union both of whom are among the In a private ceremony to be College Civil Rights Committee foremost authorities in the field. he!d in the Nott Memorial Thea- will feature a discussion with He hopes to be able to determine · ter at two o'clock Satunlay after- members of The Northern Inter- the factors that affect the propa- ·. noon. the president a:11<l s~cre- co:Iegiate Freedom Committee gation of a crack through a tary-treasurer of' the . natwnal about their t·ecent Yoter reg·istra- material, and how this propaga- honor society will prestrle over tion drive in the South. This tion can be retarded. When he the initiation procedmgs. Follow- me2ting will take olace next returns to Union, he feels he will . ing the induction will be a coc~- Monday, at 4:30 in Bailey 108. be able to continue his investiga- tail hour with Gerald L. Ph1l- Professor Clements, John Beck- tion on his own. Eisenstadt stat- Iippe, chairman of the bom;d of erman, Steve Granger and Bob ed that he was \very happy'' General Electric Co., who will J;le Milder will explain their recent about the prospects for this sum- the societies' guest speaker m trip to the South and their ef- mer. \This is the right kind of Memorial Chapel at 8 P.M. The forts in registering Negroes. activity for a scholar to engage talk, on the impact of the Eur~- Gregory Coming in.\ pean Common Market on Amer1- Last Monday the Civil Rights Schwartz Published can industry, will be the only Committee announced that Dick Professor Winfred Schwartz event of the day to be open to Gregory, the famed satirist, will recently published a new text the public. At six o'clock the so- perform at Proctors on April 20 book, Intermediate Electromag- ciety wi1l hold a banque~ at at 8:00. Tickets can be purchas- netic Theory. It was Wl'itten to which Pl'esident Carter Davtdson erl for either $2 or $3 from Van fill a gap in Physics 21 and 34, will speak. Curler Music Store, Tom Kreh- which have been taught for the New Chat)ter biel, Dave Berenson, at the Civil last few years without any text. The Union chapter, the ll?th Rights Committee meeting, and Schwartz began the book in 1959 to be grante~ a charter, apphed at the door. The proceeds of the during his sabattical. He said for its induction last fall. Ta? concert will go to the Student that he hopes that it will be Beta Pi requires a college o~· um- Non-violent Coordinating Com- used in other scho?ls, m~~tion- versity to offer three engmeer- mittee. ing that he wrote It specifiCally ing curricula. Until the 1950's, weekend Brealcs Even because there was no book cov- however, Unio:1 had. gradua~ed The result of the Jazz Week- ering this material available. only civil and electncal en[pn- end, Dizzy Gillespie Concert, The publishers are John Wiley eers, not initiating mechamcal were presented. Unfortunately, I and Son, one of five houses that engineering until a few years there was only an insignificantly . b1d for the book. . ago. · 1 small profit on the evening. The I Lowen In Symposmm Cpon graduating the fH~tc.ass Committee hopes that there will Professor Walter Lowen has of IVI.E/s, the college was mvlted be more support for the upcom- been. l}amed _one of thir.ty men to (Continued on Page 5) ing Dick Gregory Concert. I partiCipate lJ! the third. Pl~w- Stulients who wish to do vol- share SymJ?OSlUm on Engmeermg (Continued on Page 5) (Contmued on Page 5) Leaders View (;'JturchMoves Jury Room Drama Opens The first in a series of ecu- menical discussions will be held this Sunday, April 12, in Mem- orial Chapel at 8:00 p.m. The series will consist of three de- •·_ bates between prominent local Protestant ministers and Roman Catholic priests. Vatical Council Discussed At Sunday's meeting, the guest speakers will be the Rev. James M. Boyd, pastor of the First Methodist Church, Schenectady, and the Rev. Edward F. Cantwell, assistant at St. John the Evan- gelist Roman Catholic Church, Schenectady. The subject of their debate will be the Second Vatican Council: its purpose, its meaning to the world, and its re- as of now. Rev. Boyd attended B1·others Col:ege, Drew University, whe~e he also earned a Bachelor of DI- vinity Degree. He was a delegate to the World Methodist Confer- etlce held in Oslo, Norway, in 1961. Father Cantwell is. a graduate of St. Thomas lVIu'!or .. Seminary and St. Joseph Semm- ary. . , Tonight on Arena Stage The fate of a boy accused of murdering his father rests in the hands of these \Twelve Angry Men\ in the Reginald Rose drama currently being presented by the Mountebanks. By Barry Newman The moderator for this f1rst debate will be the Rev. C. How- ard ·Russell, vice ch3;ncellor of the Albany Catholic diOcese. The stage version of \12 Angry Men\ will be offered by the Succeeding Meetings Mountebanks tonight, in Nott Memorial Theater, at 8:30 P.M. The \Divine _ Human Encounter: drama wiU have nightly performances, running through Tuesday .. An Explanation of Worship\ will The major roles will be portrayed by John Thompson, '59, David be the topic at the second meet- Singer, '67, and Jack Kennedy, '64 .. The directors are Professor ing, April 19. At that time, the Gifford Wingate, and Professor John Girdner. speakers will be the Rev. Ber- Written by Rose tl'and T. Fay, assistant at St. and later was made into a movie and adapted for the stage. All the I·· Helen's Catholic Church, Sche- and later was made into a movie and adopted for the stag;e. All the ' nectady and the Rev. Harold W. action is cramped into the jury room of a general sess1ons court. Scheibert, pastor at Bethlehem From the twelve jurors placed into this seemingly limited beginning, Lutheran Church, Schenectady. Rose has created what he calls \an interesting group of cha1·acters Prof. Norman Johnson will act and a suspenseful story.\ The action of the play, according to the as moderator. author allows the players to introduce a very complex story, dey~lop At the third discussion, the it, and' resolve it, all within two hours. Putting \12 Angry .M~n\ mto Rev. Ralph Booth, pastor of State script form, Mr. Rose has written, \became not only an al'tistic labor, Street Presbyterian Church, but in part an engineering stunt\ as well. Schenectady, and the Rev. Thorn- No Dry Terms as Phelan, Newman Apostolate Rose's main point is that the legal tenn \beyond a reasonable chaplain at R. P. I., will be the doubt\ has a far more real meaning than the dryness of lega~ }1!-n· guest speakel'S, Their topic will guage indicates - especia. lly for those who. have the respon, slbihty he \The .Joy of the People of t h 1 th q God: The Christian Life.\ Serv- to convict or acquit. To mos oft e twe ve JUrors, e case m ues- t;on that of an eighteen year-old slum-born boy accused of murder- ing as moderator for this final ing 'his brutal, ex-convict father, is open a!ld shu!. One of them, meeting in the series will be the however is seized by doubts. Though he himself IS unsure of the Hev. Lee Howe, executive direc- truth, h~ forces the others to reveal their motivations for finding the St. Andrews Exchange Scholar Alon Jeffrey, winner of a U. S. John Beckerman. State D epa r t m en t Internship Grant. Music and Lecture Featured Next Week By Hank Rushmeyer Convocations featuring educator Elizabeth Drew and the Pacific String Quartet will be presented next week. . The Pacific String Quartet, a ~hamber m':lSlc group from L?s Angeles will perform at a convocatwn on Apnl 14 at 8:30 P.M. m Memori~l Chapel. The Quartet was formed in 1960. It represents a regrouping of musical talents f~r fo~r men wh? have known each other since the pre-war years. Smce 1ts form.ahon. the ~;·ou~ ?as gained the acclaim of critics who have de~cr1bed ~t as exc1tlng, polished and highly experienced,\ and \dellghtful m freshness of approach and rightness of style.\ Different Centuries The Quartet will play the Quartt;t in G Major, Opus .17, No. 5, by Franz Jo-seph Haydn (1771), Strmg Quartet. No. 3 m E Flat, Opus 51 by Anton Dvorak (1878-1879), and Strmg Quartet N~. 3, Opus 22 by Paul Hindemith (1922). Although these three pteces were written in different cei1turies, they have the s~me the.me. T~ey express a tone of lament by suppressed and resttve natwnal;t.Jes. The date of each selection closely corres~ond~ to .great political upheav:els of world history. Haydn wrote h1s p1ece JUSt before the American and French evolutions; Dvorak w.rote '?n the eve o~ a Hungarian revolt against the Ha~sburgs; Hmdemith wro~e du~·mg the political unrest in Germany durmg the 1920's, out of whtch Httler FiYe Union men have received awards for their a<\hievements in various fields. They are: John Beckerman, Alon Jeffrey, John P. Rutherfoorrl. Anton B. Ward<', and Barry L. Weinstein. Be\kerman a sophomore, will spf'nd his junior y<>ar at St. An- drews University in Fife, S<'ot- land. As one of the top twenty- five in his class, he was invited to take the interview which the St. And1·ews Selertion Committee re- quil·ed for the position. Only one student annually wins the year at St. Andrews . John is an English major and a member of Phi Epsilon Pi fra- tel'l1ity. He is Vice President of the Mountebanks, a <.'lass repre- sentative to the Student Council, and a member of the Civil Rights Committee. He was one of the three students to participate in the Easter voter registration drive sponsored by SNCC. Humanities and Science Beckerman will study at St. Salvator's College which is part of St. Andrews. He hopes to study medieval history, moral philosophy, and Scottish litera- ture. This program owes its success to the equal stress both schools place on the humanities and science. It began as a result of a close friendship between Presi- dent Dixon Ryan Fox of Union <>nd Sir James Colquhoun Irvine, Principal and Vice Chancellor of St. Andrews. Alon Jeffrey, a junior political science major, has won a U.S. State Department Internship Grant. He will work this summer for the State Department in Washington D.C. in some posi- tion of responsibility. One Of 35 Alon was one of thirty-five students from colleges and uni- versities all over the country to receive this grant. The thirty- five were chosen from a field of (Continued on Page 5) Tufts Dismisses Uncreative Prof emerged to power. . . . . The members of the Quartet have diverse and v_ery dl.stJ_nwulshed Dr. Woodrow Wilson Sayre, backgrounds in music. William Hymanson,, the ftrst vwhmst. a~d Assistant Professor of Philoso- founder of the group, studied at the J~lhard Sch<?ol of Mustc m phy, has been notified by Dean New York City. For ten years he played m the Music Art Qual'tet. Charles E. Stearns that he will Akiro Endo the second violinist, is a native of Japan who came not be reappointed after the pl'es- to the United States when very young, and later studied music at ent academic year. The l'eason the University of' Southern California. He was a member of he 's his lack of pl'oductive scholar- Trojan String Quartet in California. ship. Dean Stearns wrote. \We Falkove Is The Violist are satisfied that you have been Albert Falkove is the violist ~or tht'> ~oup. He graduate.d from df~ctive in the classroom,\ but the Curtis School o.f Music in Phlladelphta, and has played m both added, \We are frankly disap- the Los Angeles Philharmoni<\ and the Columbia Symphony Orehes- ,Jointed that the promise of schol- t ·as arly contribution to your field, r · B d' k · t' f The cellist of the Quartet, Naoum en Itzs y, IS a na 1ve o which was equally real to us Russia. He studied at the St. Petersburg Imperial Conservatory, when you came, has not material- atad came to the United States aft~r th~ outbreak of. the ~917 Revo- ized.\ Jution. Benditzsky has had a dtstmgmshed. career m th1s country, Professor Sayre graduated Phi playing in the Coolige. ~uartet, and then 111 the NBC Symphony Beta Kappa from Williams Col- Orchestra under Toscamm. lege in 1940 and received his Drew On Thursday, April 16 Ph.D. from Harvard in 1957. Elizabeth M. Drew, Professor of ~duc~tion at 1\;lichigan State During the war he se1·ved in the University, will speak at a convocatwn I_n Memonal Chapel .on Air Transport Command. He was Thursday, April 16, at 11:30. A.M .. She wtll talk on the c~·eattve Instructor in Philosophy at Po- processes in youth, an area m. whiCh she has done extens1ve re- mona College for four years. search, and written several articles.. . . Since 1957 he has been Assistant Dr. Drew is presently on sabbatical. leave f~·o!n .Mtch1gan St.ate Professor of Philosophy at Tufts. and is doing research work a~ the Me~n!nger Clime m ~ansas C1ty. He was given leave of absence She will remain at that prestlgous pos1t1?n for the. remamder of tqe for the second semester of 1961- year. The Clinic engages in very extensive and dtverse. res.earch m 62 for the purpose of mountain th field of mental health. A selected group of psychiatric cases, climbing in the Himalayas. having a wide range of m~ntal a~lments, are gi':en treatment at Professor George B. Burch, Menninger. At the same time emment psyci:oiog;Is.ts .s~ch as Dr. Chairman of the Philosophy De- Drew help the patients, and then use the patients mdtvtdual cases partment, had recommended that as subjects of their research. Professor Sayre be reappointed Dr. Drew was brought to the attention of the Lectures a~d without limit of time both be- Concerts Committee at Union College by the Schenectady Pubhc cause of his competence as a School System, which had already arranged for her to speak at a teacher and scholar and because conference on family living this week in Schenectady. Dr. Dt,ew he already has tenure under the will a'so speak at the Unitarian Church on Wendell Avenue, Wed- rule formulated in the 1940 nesday evening, April 15. Statement of Principles of the ------------------------------,American Association of Univer- ' . sity Professors. According to this It's A Girl For Shelagh! The search by Union College for a scholar-in-reside~ce still continues. It seems that Shelagh Delagney, .v.:ho was a pnme can- rlidate, is now unavailable to accept the posiiJOn. _· , Miss Delagney, author of A T~ste of Ho~ey, ann.ounced the btrth of a nine-pound six-cmnce baby gn·l. She d1d not disclose, however, rule a professor who has had more than three yeal's of teach- ing at another institution should be cons.idered to be on perman- ent tenure after four lnore years. tor of the .Schenectady County Council of Churches. (Contihued on Page 5) --------------------------- whether or not ~he was married. Professor Sayre is currently appealing his case to the Ad- visory Committee on faculty Per- sonnel and the American Associ- ation of University Professors.

2 Voter Drive: Visit South By Robert Milder It's te? hours harfl driving from New York, and when you get there nothmg seems RO very different. The grass is a little greener and the gro_und a littl<> redcte_r, but that'\ about all. The people talk and act a ht~Ie slowe1', and 1f .you're tht>re any length of time you, too, may begm to talk and act hke that. It's very easy to pick up the drawl and maybP some of th<> sentiment!' as \Wil. For they both are dPeply-rootNl in thf' r<>d soil. Raleigh on Sunday We atTiveu it! Raleigl! on Easter Sunda~. It wat> a warm, sunny day? and on the stdewalk m front of the capital an elderly man was sellmg peanuts to the crowd returning from church. Groups of whites passed by, and groups of Negroes, too. Everyone seemed happy; or, tf not happy, at least content. Anyway, that is how it appeared on the surface. But drive down E. South St., a modern four-lane road turn left and it's like going back a hundred years. The pavement ends abruptly and you find yourself on a bumpy dirt road. And then you know you're in one of the Negro sections of town. ;\lountebanks in Dress Rehearsal. It's not all like that, though. Many streets are paved· some are even lighted. But that doesn't mean much, for some of' the worst hove}s arc located less than four blocks from the center of town. In Raleigh you can't speak, for example, of a lower middle-class section for neighborhoods are not divided in that way. Economic condition~ 1 1 vary from block to block, ft•om house to house. A boarded shack with a cor~ugat~d iron roof and a rotting porch may stand next to I a newly-butlt bnck house. The contrast between the interiors is even more str~king. Some are clean and well-kept; others are dirty and M 0 u n t b k R . smoky With bare walls and a heavy smell of sweat and burning coal. · · e an s evtew· But they all have new 21\ television sets. You'll always find that • even in the barest shack. ' i 'T I A d M ~ ~ Negro Housing we ve n~ry Cfl . Then, too, there are t~e Negro developments such as Biltmore Htll~, located on the outsktrts of the city. Even here, several eco- By Professor Frank Gado nomic lev~ls are represented. A block of fashionable split-levels with w ,'tt f t 1 •· · b k · cement driveways and neatly-trimmed lawns parallels a row of cheap the di en hor the~ I~H~r t ac m cigarettes - isolating each juror Levittown-type ranch houses. Professional men and industrial work- t'll ayk_ w ent k a mff u~t rty was as he comes to agonize with him- ers ln:e togethet·, perhaps more b~· necessity than by choice· for s .I rna mg a 0 en e 01 0 pro- ~elf, all pla~ed against the goad- outside of the slums, there are few places a 'Negro can live. There Ade a shMwcasd for dti:ma, Twelvfe n;g of the JUror who takes upon is no integrated housing in Raleigh. .1!-~ry en . r~w e r~ves ~ · htmself the role of advocate for . St01:es, however, are integrated, as are most restaurants. A few cntics. Later, 111 . HollY:\ood lt the ~efendant. Stage production, sttll res1st and they are being picketed by the interracial Raleigh beh:;tle fa. sHccessfFI ~\\ ~udght lumpmg the panel gathered about Student Movement. But the fact that a restaurant is integrated does I ve lC e for tl~n~yth' on 1 a. f t ~ ~ t~~le, fails to particularize the not mean that Negroes eat there; it certainly does not mean that dssump.Io~ a e e emen ~ 0 mdindual struggle and by this they will be found sitting with whites. Motels, too, are integrated, u~!mat!C \_ucce~l are fest~ent~aldly default, emphasizes the' melodra- though a Negro requesting a room may strangely find that there . same regar ess. 0 e me - matic machinery. As a result the are .no vacancies. In short, overt segre&\ation has bee!l re,Pl~ce~ by a £~:d t~; J~~fou~a~~~~~~/~h:at~.{= play falls between two stools.' mme subtle and, perhaps, a more effect1ve brand of discr1mmahon. cal groups. Adaptation for arena also pre- sents problems. Once again its Subtle Segregation A successful transition to the apparent vi1tues are deceptive The. same holds true for public facilities. High school,; are only I stage would appear easy. Twelve ~welve men arrayed on the rela~ to~enly mtegrated. All Negroes are automatically assigned to Ligon Angry Mt'n observes all the tra- t1vely .small stage of the Nott HI!fh School. They may apply for transfer to the predominantly ditional unities of time place and Memonal Theater makes the dan- white Broughtpn High School, but ;;uch applications are rare. Last action. In addition, it' enjoy~ the ger of crowding a constant pit- :year fifteen ~ egroes requested transfer to Broughton; three were advantage of fascinating subject I fall. A formidable table which acc~pted. There. are presently twelve Negroes at Broughton; no matter: the deliberation in the I cuts thes tage in half compounds \\'hltes attend L1gon. A ::\egro student living three blocks from hermetically sealed world of the I the difficulty by cramping move- Broughton may travel five miles to school. But as long as there are jury room by which society can 1 ment. In addition, the substance ~hose t'Yelve blacks. at the Broughton, no one can say that the schools take a life in vengeance. The in- of the play t•equires that the ar- m Raleigh are not mtegrated. herent play of emotions and con- t?rs remain seated most of the Friday, April 10; 1964 Friday,,Ap Guest Column: Ci'Vil Rights By Prof. n:. V. Nahabedian This week's guest columnist is Dr. K. V. Nahabedian who is in his first year as Professor of Chemistry. He was recently awarded a Harpsi grant by the Research C()rporation. nectady. 0 to Gu:;;tav . This columndescribes some thoughts whose immediate concern will presen 1s the progress of civil rights legislation presently being debated in teenth and the Senate. They are' concerned ultimately, however with the out- com~ o~ a fermenting sociological.l'evolution that m~st ensue from In a :Y contmumg de~ands for .the exten~wn of equal 1•ights to all citizens. modity, we The .repercusswns of .th1s revolutiOn will' not be realized in the im- ; one harpsic medmte futur:e, but m t:he final analys!s our response to it as a clear sounc people can brmg about e1ther the salvatwn or a profound denial of accuracy oJ our humanistic traditions and institutions. hands, prov The Problem other instn . The effects of this ~e.volution on our pre~ent society become ap- pruent upon the recogmtwn of .two. fact.s. Firstly, there is not now A yom n.or has ther:e ~v~r been any JustlficatlOn for the deni~l of equal Leonhardt nghts. to an m~IVIdual for reasons of race or religion. .Secondly, om College thi: expenenc~ dl!nng th~ last century has taught us that equal rights great mastE cannot exiSt m a S?Ciety that segrega~es the races, whether it be in known in t: law and cu~to:t;l as 1n thE South, C!r socio-economically as in the North. Kirkpatricll Ther:eupon I~ follow~ that our society has either of two choices: either early musi• parner:s to mtegratu~n of the races in law, employment, housing and literature o e~ucatwnal opportumty are dropped, or else our espousal of \equal righ!s to all\ must fina_lly be recogf!ized as nothing more than a lip- Leonha service. T~e rep.ercussiOns from this latter alternative defy assess- the Univer: ment esp~cially rf such a ~allous response should degenerate to an Conservato: overt demal of the equal r1ghts concept, a denial which recent his- all Europe~ tory has shown need not confine itself to racial distinctions sterdam C• What an absurd projection to an extreme! It is? Perhaps but B·asle Ran a?- assessment ~f the emotionalism that is accompanying the re~olu- many other tlon of our racial problems demands that we at least be cognizant Leonh,a of extremes. Peaceful Front ~~l{dt}:;• '1 , Demonstrations to date by equal rights proponents have in the has record€ mam been peaceful. Indeed, they have been conducted with. a self ~estraint v.:hich, in addition to establishing new norms for this qualit; On Th m our soc1ety, has eng~ndered considerable racial good will. How- present a v ever, recent demonstl.'atwns reveal an underlying capacity for vio- begin with !ence, .a further development of which is certain to strain and dimin- Sweelinck, 1sh th1s enhanced racial harmony and Williar Reasons For Concern century Du 0~ the one hand ~e?•. an incr.easingly intensified demand for in- doors from t.egra~1on and the. ~ossibtbty for 1t to contribute to a hardening of Amsterdan: hnes. ~~ to be ~ntJ'?IPated._ But there is another source for concern. through th< For It ~s becommg 1ncreasmgly more apparent that while most people wares by s ~ecogmz~ the ne.ed and express support for changes in prevailing prospective mter-rapal relations, many are only beginning to realize that the:' Elizabl:\thar equal r1~~ts problem extends itself into his own as well as to distant melodious. commu~ttJes .. The result has been an increasing reluctance to accept !. the soc1~l adJustments that must necessarily accompany the ostensi- t ,' Also 0 bly cte~1red changes. A pertinent example in this regard can be I baldi, from drawn from no l<'ss a center of liberalism than New York City where a melodic i so modera~e a scheme for public school integration as the \Prince- Jakob Frob to~ Plan\ IS enc~mntel'ing intense opposition, in the most part ft·om t a tecen~ly .orgamzed Fa Tents and Taxpayers Association. It IS m the context of these deYelopments that I am alarmed by a Tecent report which indicated that mail received by Senator ~uch~l of C~lifornia, the Republican floor leader for the civil right!l btl~, lS runml}g fiye to ~ne agai~st the bill. The consequences of a fu1ther deteri9rat1on of mter-rac1al relations should such mail delay or adversely mfl.uence the passage of a meaningful civil rights bill h.ardly. supports an appal'ent complacency among those who are essen- tially m agreement with the bill in its present form. The bl . which Leor · of various of movemeJ gigues, alh , metric orgl such as C01 ' the preludE Leonh:: Suite in g Just as ~~e. methods have ch~nge\'1, so have the arguments. Ask fl.ict of personalities and values t!me .. C?nsidedng these limita- any l?eal pohtlctan abo?t Negro nghts a~d chances are he will praise seem infallible, dramatic material. tlons, tt.Is a compliment to Direc- e:Iual!ty and .deplore bigotry .. And he w11I be all in favor of human Yet, despite this abundance of tors Wmgate and Girdner that ngh.ts-the nght of the prop_netor to choose his customers, the right kindling, Twelve Angry Men fails 1 t~ey manage to achieve any illu- of ~he e~nployer to. select h1s ~orkers. Then he will say that you to fire into drama. What on the swn. ~f action at all within this can. t !egt,~late equality an~ he. w111 speak of the dangers of \creeping screen was engrossing melodrama stral~Jtl.cket. c 1 ' soetaltsm a!ld the centrahzatlDn of power, of how all the trouble in becomes, on the stage, mediocre. I It ,Is ~nfortunate that Giff Win- amp us Calendar'' N~n-th Carolma has been caused by out-of-staters, and of how med- And, unfortunately, the current I gat.e s htghly successful career at a •· the great J It is fi with one o: ol'ity on th some to bE dhng Northerners 5:hould first ~olve their own problems. No one says Mountebanks production does lit- Umon, during which he has had \I. ha~e 'em,\ not in. North Carolina. Instead, they talk of the Con- tie to surmount this handicap. i the daring to present experi- A}lril tO-Mountebanks Production, Nott Memorial, 8:30 p.m., stttutwn and the Bill of Rights. It's a far more sophisticatPd ap- . . 1 mental and off-beat drama could . Octavo Con<;ert, Memorial Chapel, 8:00 p.m. proach, a far more convincing one. And often it work~. Ostensibly,, th~ play IS gener- 'not have been capped by a' better April 11-Tau Beta. P1,. Memorial Chapel, 8:30 p.m. ated by the ~ury s ~ttempt to re-I play. However, he has had to con- Baseball: Umon vs. Hobart Alexander Field 2·30 p m solve the ~mit or mnocen.ce of .a 1 tend with a lack of exp . d . Mountebanks Production, s':30 p.m. ' · · · Improvement . Y ~t things seem to be improving as the number of arch-segre- f\'at~?msts decr~ases_. I~ ~ e\y York, people ar~ \passive integration- Ists : t~e~ beheve I!l c1v1l r1ghts, ~mt .do nothmg for it; in Raleigh, !he maJOrity C!f wh1tes are \passtve segregationists\: they believe m the separatwn of the races, but are not militant racists. There has b~en a tempering of the Southern mind in recent years, due per- haps m part to the changing political situation in the not-so-deep South. The local Republicans have outdone the Democrats in con- servatism; and this has served to push the Democrats somewhat to the left. There is in North Carolina a powerful faction of liberals and moderates within t~e Democratic Party, particularly among young democrats; and w1th the supp01-t of the Negro community ~hese moderates hope to el~ct Judge Richardson Preyer as Governo; m.NoVeUJber. (Or rather 111 May, for that is when the Democratic pl'lmary 1s held.) Hence one reason for the increased efforts to reg- ister Negro voters. Registration in Raleigh is an extremely simple process. The b,ooks are open a_ll. year ex.cept ~or the three weeks preceding Elec- tion Day. To far1htate reg1stratwn, the local Board of Elections has appointed several \floating registrars\ whose jurisdiction extends into all I?r~cincts of Wa_ke C?unty. It is the duty of these registrars to admm1ster the req~ued ~1teracy test to prospective voters. They may not encourage reg1strat10n; that was our task-to knock on doors nne! speak to. peup~e, to encourage re~istration, to answer questions, to ·fill out registration blanks and call m the registrar. On the whole, we were well received. People were friendly and polite; almost invariably we were invited into their homes and asked to sit down. Part of this could have been because we were white and in the South it is not good policy for a Negro to spum a white. That may have h1l;d s?mething to do with it, but I think not. Many people were enthustastic about voting. That's how it was in many cases. (Continued on Page 4) f 'TT f f f f Y T Y Y Y T tift t t f t f' STUDENT TRAVEl. • College Tours • College Study Programs STUDENT & FACULTY GROUP TOURS Arranged at LOWEST PRICES Books Now Open for Summer Vacations in Europe Schenectady Travel Bureau, Inc. Est. 1930 328 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. PHONE FR 7-8506 Agents For All Leading Airlines- S.S. Companies - Railroads and Car Rental Cos. .......................... RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES BAR SUPPLIES POLYETHELENE CELLOPHANE DRUG SUNDRIES NOTIONS NOVELTIES RENTALS: GLASSWARE DISHES SILVERWARE J. NOGEE & SONS, Inc. Successor to 5. MORRIS & SON Established 1 888 WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS PAPER-PAPER BAGS STATIONERY - SCHOOL SUPPLIES Phone FR 4-4429 - 28·34 N. Broadway Schenectady 5, N. Y, boy on tl'lal fo~· murdermg h1s ·actors; this is a year of ~~b~Ud- Apr!l12-Mountebanks Production, 8:30 p.m . father. At first, 1t seem~ an op~n i ing for the Mountebanks. Per- April 13-Newman Ch.1b Meeting, Bailey Hall 201, 8:30 p.m. and shut ca~e; only one ~uro~, dts- i haps the greatest contribution of Mountebanks Production, 8·30 p m turped by ?ls colleagues pe1fun~-~ this week's uneven production of April 14-Chemistr~ Lecture Room, li:30 'a.~. Dr. Paul Morrow t?rmess, dtssen~s. The ev1dence IS 1 Twelve Angry l\Ien is the legacy. Convocation, Memorial Chapel, 8:30 p.m. Union 'Col- Sifte~ once agam and, ?ne by on.e, 1 to Union of a core of students I leg~-Schenectady Museum Concert Series: the Pacific the JUrors ch.ange their votes m who have been exposed to ct' Strmg QuaTtet. favor of acquittal. Actually, how- ' a mg. \\ J>r;l 15-Faculty S:ollocmium, Bailey Hall 202, 4:00 p.m. ever, the. playwright is _less con- I Authors wishing to enter man- 1 April 16-Convocatlon, Memorial Chapel, 11:30 a.m. Dr. Eliza- cerned wtth the whodunmt aspe~ts uscripts r 01 . this year's Yudis 1 bet~ D1•e·ws, Pr9f. of Education, Michigan State Univ. ofdthe :ats_e, Olf' even. t~e metrlts Competition for Creative Writing: Recit~l, Me:nonal Chapel, 8:30 p.m. Gustav Leonhardt an ope13; 1on .o our JUI y .sys .em, must submit the t M. G d ! harpsichordist. ' than he IS w1~h the motr\:at10ns by April 24 . m 0 !. a 0 ! Meeting, Bailey Hall 305, 7:30 p.m. Young Republican ~~: cf~!s~~~~~fo~a~f ~~ci~i;h~~o~= Entdies should .be typed, double~ II g~~~itol\y Counselor Applications are available at the veniently assembles in his jury spice ' on one Side of the paper Dean of Students office, Old Gym Hall. ~~As~~~~~~OOYi·~~==========~~~~~~==~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~==J sufficiency of the evidence is re- ~ vealed, each juror comes to realize that he is trying himself. Such a ~ premise lends itself to exploita- ID'~ tion by the cameraman. It needs to be unfolded through a series of close-ups - angry stares, finger :idl\\. tappings, nervous fumblings with ~ ID SENIORS! Please order your Cap and Gown immediately at the CAMPUS BOOKSTORE DEADLINE: MAY 1st ~ ID -ARROW-..!. ~ makes you look like a master ~ in a matter of minutes. Your m swing will be better and . rl... so will your putting, for ~ this shirt was designed for [\ freedom of movement- ID especially for golfers. That's ~ why the pocket is on the right. rlr\ This is the shirt that you saw on ~ ARROW's T.V. sponsorship of the ~ MASTERS Tournament ... it with- ~ stood the test and looked as good at ID the last hole as it did at the tee off. in\ $5.00 · use Bach ST4 To~ and ho Mot

concern debated in the out- y ensue from · citizens. in the im- to it as a denial of become ap- is not now of equal our rights it be in the North. either and of \equal than a lip- assess- to an recent his- erhaps, but the resolu- cognizant in the a self- quality How- for vio- and dimin- for in· of or concern. people prevailing that the to distant e to accept bhe ostensi- t can be where \Prince- Harpsichordist By Paul Livingston Harpsichord recitals seem to come only once a year to Sche- nectady. On Thursday evening, April 16, Union College wiH be host to Gu::;tav Leonhardt, harpsichord player from the Netherlands, who will present a program ranging throughout the mu:;ir of the seven- teenth and eighteenth centuries. In a year when even piano recitals are locally a scarce com- modity, we should perhaps count ourselves f01·tunate to have even one harpsichord performance. This delicate instrument, with its pure, clear sound and infinite possibilities for subtlety of phrasing and accuracy of musical expres!'don, can, when placed under the proper hands, provide an evening of musical enjoyment equal to that of any other instrument or instrumental combination. A young man who enjoys a most enviable reputation, Gustav Leonhardt is probably the most important musician to visit Union College this year. He has won international acclaim as one of the great masters of the keyboard, and although his name is not as well known in this countty, in Europe he is considered, along with Ralph Kirkpatrick, one of the most important authorities on the sources of early music and one of the greatest interpreters of the keyboard literature of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. Leonhardt was a Professor of Musicology and Harpsichord at the University of Vienna and is now a Professor at the Amsterdam Conservatory. Since 1950 he has been performing concerts in nearly all Eul'Opean countries. He has performed as soloist with the Am- sterdam Concertgebouw Orchestra, the Vienna Symphoniker, The B\asle Kammerorchel!ter, The Netherlands Chamberorchestra, and many other symphony and chamber groups throughout Europe. Leonhardt's prime interest at the present time seems to be with recording, Working first for Philips and Vanguard Records, and now with the Telefunken, Harmonia Mundi, and Cambridge labels, he has recorded about 30 discs. On Thursday evening, beginning at 8:30 P.M., Leonhardt will present a varied and extremely enjoyable program of music. He will begin with some sho1•t works, The Pavana Lachrimae of Jan Pietersz. Sweelinck, the Pavan and Galliard My Lm·d Lumley by John Bull, and William Byrd's Fanstaia in a. Sweelinck is an early seventeenth century Dutch composer whose home was, coincidentally, just a few doors from Leonha1:dt's present home in the Nieuwmarkt area of Amsterdam, the red-light district which has been made infamous through the quaint Dutch custom of having the whores display their wares by sitting-in-wait in back of plate glass windows so that the prospective customers may shop with care. Both Bull and Byrd are Elizabethan composers whose works for the harpsichord are light and melodious. Also on Lenhardt's program will be a work by Girolamo Fresco- baldi, from the Cento Partite sopra Passacagli, this being, basically, a melodic invention over a ground base, and two Toccatas by Johann Jakob Froberger. part from i t ;1 The bulk of the program will be provided by the three suites ; which Leonhardt will play. The suite is a musical form consisting m alarmed by Senator civil rights of a mail delay rights bill are essen- · of various dance movements combined into a single work. The types of movements within a suite are likely to include gavottes, courantes, 61 gigues, allemandes, and minuets, all refering to the rhythmic and metric organization of the dance. Suites built upon a larger form, such as Couperin's and Bach's, contain an important first movement, ' . the prelude. •.~ Leonhardt will play the Suite in d minor by Louis Couperin, the ------..., Suite in g minor by Froberger, and the English Suite in g minor by the great Johann Sebastian Bach. p.m., 2:30p.m. p.m. Morrow 'Col- Pacific Eliza- Univ. ble at the It is fitting that Leonhardt should end his harpsichord program 1 . · with one of Bach's compositions, both because Leonhardt is an auth- . ority on the subject of Bach's keyboard music and is considered by some to be the definite living performer of Bach's works, and be- eause Bach is the greatest of composers for the keyboard. :__ ____ ,.-,- STORE THOSE WINTER THINGS NOW Take Advantage of the Storage Facilities at Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5294 and have them ready for next year when you return. Cleaned and Stored at Regular Price. Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian • American food Oisr::ount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking 01 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWtiNG LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES Skidmore-Union Orchestra Performs. Rehearsal's Orchestral Tale: Woe 3 Political Scene: Second Suprise By Alon Jeffrey A number of curious factors have combined to provide us with the second upset in as many primary elections this year. Alabama Governo1· George Wallace polled 261,148 votes in his bid for the . Democrat~c non:ination for President in this week's Wisconsin pri- mary. Wisconsm Governor John Reynolds, a favorite son pledged to President Johnson, polled 508,597, and captured all 46 delegates to the Democratic C'.mvention. It cannot be denied that Wallace's showing was phenomenal; however, we must note that his success pos~s no real threat to Johnson's. nomination chances. He clearly I'C- mams the Democrats' choice for 1964. Tuesday's Christian Science Monitor suggested that Wallace would need some 100,000 votes \to m~ke the try si~ificant.\ Early in the campaign Reynolds main- ta~ned that a showmg .of 50,000 votes would be tragic. Later, he also shifted to the figure mentioned by the Monitm·. Support for Wallace Three explanations can be suggested fm· Wallace's unexpectedly large vote total. First, the Wisconsin primary is a so-called open primary, that is, a voter need not be a registered Democrat to vote ln the Democratic primary. Support for this contention can be found m the small vote which Representative John Byrnes received as a f~vot:ite son Republican candidate. The Republicans, to reduce fric- tion m the party, ran Byrnes as an unpledged candidate. His vote of 294,724 was considerably less than that of Richard Nix:on when he also ran unopposed in 1960~ Although the Republicans had urged their voters not to cross party lines, it seems likely that a rather · large number did so. Dissatisfaction With Johnson A second explanation may be found in growing dissatisfaction wi.th Presid~nt ~ohnson. While we n~w have n~ evidence to support th1s contention, 1f Wallace repeats hts success m the Muyland pri- By Robert s. Hoffman mary on May 19, it may indeed have been an important factor. In the Maryland primary Wallace is running against Senator Daniel Brew- Last Tuesday night the Skid-! table deterioration of a group ster, who is pledged to Johnson. more-Union Orchestra added an. with a great deal of potential. hour to its sometimes weekly I Admittedly, Union College has Civil Rights Question Involved practice session in an attempt to never pt·ove<l an adeauate breed- A thir.d e~planation may lie in the pending civil rights bill. avert the impending disaster that ing ground for creativity. Con- Wallace campmgned almost solely upon what he calls the \civil has threatened the group since cordy must struggle without its wrongs bill,\ mainly to bring attention to it. This campaign tactic its inception. Messrs. Curtis and once-in-a-lifetime J. C. Clemens, underplayed his ringing cries of \segregation forever,\ upon which Russo split the motley crew into the Idol repeatedly verges on col- Re_Ynolds concentrated. Since civil rights was the pivotal issue in the wind and string sections and fer- lap::;e an<l resorts to the publi- pr1mary, the results may have an effect upon passage of the bill. vidly attacked the remnants of cation of material it wishes it This, we think, is highly unlikely, although we may look :fo:r amend- the orchestra's projected pro- could do without, the Brass ments to the public accommodations and :facilities sections of the bill gram. As a result the group will Choir, Concert Ensemble, Jazz (Titles II and III). The greatest effect, at any rate, will he on those probably perform, but it will not Ensemble and Woodwind Quintet Republicans who are presently undecided. Because of the Southern approach the caliber promised by alternately dissolve and reorg~n- filibuster, their wavering may well be decided by Wallace~s showings the achievements of last semes- ize, and the production of note- in Maryland and Indiana. ter. nor is it likely that it will worthy works of art is minimal. Since the Wisconsin primary was open, we hesitate to .say which recover sufficiently to equal its There at·e, however, students who of the three possible explanations is more nearly the accuxate one. former self. Why? fight on in the face of inadequate Obviously, each of the three factors must be considered, simply be- practice facilities, apathetic ad- cause of the size of Wallace's vote. Until the Indiana and Maryland minstrative attention, and under- primaries, no one should conclude that Johnson's prestige h.as fallen manned, albeit competent, art, among J?e!11o~rats. ,Likewise, v.;e ca~not accurately assess the impact iterary and music staffs. These of the ClVll rights Issue on th1s pr1mary although we call categori- stalwarts have initiated an or- cally state that it will be an important issue in the presidential chestra, secured the funds for campaign this fall. Dt>terioration Inevitable The Skitlmore-l'nion Orchestra i::; a group with many problems. It is comprised of forty musi- cians, or, more accurately, stu- rents who play instruments and who find it pleasurable to take part in what is euphemistically called an orchestra. In keeping with Union tradition, most of our men who indicate some musical activity in their list of high school extracurricular endeavors do not turn out for any of Un- ion's several musical organiza- tions (with the possible excep- tion of the football band). Sim- ilarly, few of the Skidmore girls v;ho have had experience with musical groups make themselves available. As a necessary result the Skidmore-Union Orchestra is neither an orchestra, nor a group comprised of Union and Skidmore students. 1 t is bolstered by num- erous high school students from the area, and is further bastar- dized at performances by the addition of professionals on the lead stands of seveml sections. In truth, the organization is a Schenectady-Saratoga C o u n t y Symphonietta or Chamber Or- chestra. That, in itself, is mere- ly unfortunate, not intolerable. What is intolerable is the inevi- D&J AUTO StRVICE 1372 Union St. BRAKES - TUNE-UP WHEEL ALIGNMENT & BALANCE Dl 6-9644 Wal'ly's Diner • Home Made Pies Good Cof.fee • 325 Erie Blvd. Open Daily 5 A.M. 7 P.M. transportation, and rehearsed in- to tolerable shape. But they alone can not maintain them- selves, even with the unstinting devotion of the professors in- volved. For the students in an orchestra must study, and are not in a uosition to sacrifice their time without even the t·ecom- pense of a decent group with which to rehearse, not to speak of a visible audience before which they could perform. The prom- ise of recital often spurs prac- tice and devotion, yet th& \Or- chestra\ cancelled several en- gagements because ·it was not qualified to perform. When it fin- ally did concertize, it played to small audiences at Cato, Wheeds- port and Skidmore, and a tiny audience at Union. The only rea- son the C'nion audience wasn't lost in the background was that the concert took place in the round at Nott Memorial, and even there large sections of emp- ty seats were manifest. Athletics Aided It is noteworthy that the Col- lege sees the necessity for ath- ONE DAY SERVICE CAMPUS CLEANERS All Work Done on Premises PICKUP AND DELIVERY 527 Nott St., Schenectady, N. Y. f:?pp. Union College Phone EX 3-5472 Trim-Fit LEVI'S White or Black 4.49 334 State St. We glodly Cash your checks • letic. outlet (although. its rec~nt, i~ ought. not require more prac- negl!gence of the tenms team m-. tJce or time than a college music dieates that it supports only the; group (which plays, remember, sports that can capture the pub-,· all year and not one season) nets lie eye). It does, in any event, significantly more points than actively recruit athletes, and it being in a group devoted to the sees to it that the athletic organ- 1 arts. This, like the state of many izations have both practice facili- of the affai1·s of Union College, ties (witness the expensive mon- is sad. ument to someone's lack of plan- The Skidmore-Union Orchestra ning that built a fieldhouse in- has elected its officers for next stead of a structure akin to j<ear. It hopes that with Profes- R.P.I.'s in which many activities sors Curtis and Carver at the take place), and the adminstra- helm it will be able to prepare tion's .interest with respect to two distinct programs which it schedule, and even quality of per- will be able to perform. It does formance. The people who like not want to see most of its music football don't have to organize scrapped, as it was this year, due the team on. their own and buck to incompetence. But the group the administration for every ad-1 needs attention if it is to move vance towards security and com- fonvard. It has fought through petence. And the football coach the difficult years of its birth doesn't have to beg for tackles and is ready to progress, if some and guards; with or without the people in responsible positions incentive of monetary recom- will pay it some heed. Artists pense to prospective competitors. may or may not be \gentlemen Well and good for the athletic but they are necessary on a col- department, but is . not the cui~ lege earn pus, whether they be tural sid~ of col!ege extracurricu- student or professional. Perhaps lar affatrs as Important as the the faculty should take time from physical~ When will our admis- its not planning for the Davidson sions men see the need to recruit Calendar and get up its dander bassoonists, and violinists, as over the inspiring sb·uggles of well as rebounders? Administra- students to achieve something tive attitudes are evidenced in worthwhile. The Skidmore-Union the scoring for the Brown Cup. Orc:1estra has something to offer U~ion men can rest assured that this college community~ and it bemg on a varsity team, although would appreciate a little interest. f + f Y f f '+ W V+Y Y + ¥¥¥ T f T¥ t Y 'Y t ¥ + ¥ Y~T Y f' Y Y Y Y f 'i'T' T 'T T' f Y DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118-120 JAY STREET ........................................... .6......6: RECORDS OF COMEDY - JAZZ - CLASSICAL -FOLK AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS TAPES AND RECORDS FOR RENTAL ON CLUB PLAN APEX MUSIC KORNER State St. at Cotner of Broadway Phone FR 7a 1112 I ·------------------------------------~ ~----------------~ ~----------------~ ---------------------------------------

4 arnnrnr (ttrnsta Published Fridays during the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na- tional Advertising Representative: C:uitorial Office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, Sche- nectady Pt·intlng Company, 502 Broadway. Enterel in the Sche· n~otady Post Office as Second Class :.'llail ll!atter. Subscription 15c a <'OfJY: U a year delivered anywhere· in the l .. nitf\d States. National Advertising Service, Inc., College PubUshers Representative, 420 :lladlson Ave., ~. Y. C. SE~IOR BOARD LARRY HOROWITZ 'G;; .... 346-9895. ............. Editor~in .. Chi~f ................. Business 1\Ianager .............. .:-Iariaging Editor ~IAHK ODIO::=\ZI~GER '6:> .............. 393-9780 HICHAHIJ E:H!JU!i:S '65 ................. 346-98~9 ... .. IWBERT !'. HOFF~!.\~ '61l .. .. . ................ !';ews Editor DAVl'D VULIOIA=\ '66 ......... f<OBJ>H1' l:l. HOI•'I•'l'lA;'; '6;; .......... .. ................................. Sports Editor ............................... Feature Editor RICHAHD Sll<'TOX '66 ......... . wlr..I.I.'\~1 T. wr:-;:-;1-; 'H Larr.} Eust'nL~:~l·g '1i..J: :\Iarl{ Strom 'ti:; . \Villiam ~aufftu:-; '!;G Arthur Jlorgt>-nMtt1t'n '611 .. Arnohi Katz '66 ............... . ).Jut'l{ Ku:.iuWi tz • 66 t11Pn HnlzhattP!' 'liG Henr'\!l' RuBhtnPyPr '66 -· H.khuru R<>•<·h • tiu .... :\Uchafl-1 ~vodak '6fi l•'.reu D 111 ' 6 4 . Robert IC!Pln 'GU Jeremy Jay Paul '64 .... Al ·.:--.:ahmias '66 Paul I...ivlng~ton 'G4. Rod Tulloss '66. ,JPffl't-!c~- !4rwdor 't:G .. ............ contributing Editor ................. Adviser JUNIOR BOARD ................ ~lake-L'p Editor ......... Photography E<j.itor ....... Assistant ~ews Editor ................ Assistant News Editor .................................. Assistant News Editor .................... Associate ~ews Editor AsRoolate News Editor ............................. Assoelate News dltor ............ Assistant Business 11Ia11ager .................... Assis-tant Sports Editor .................................................. Cartoonist .Sational Advertising Manager ................................ Proof Reader ................................... Associate Ne\VS Editor ................................. Contributing Editor ....................... Contributing Editor . C'it·(·ulntion :\lanage-r Trouble At Tufts In the last faculty column Professor Frank Gada de- cried the \publish or perish\ requirements that many of this nation's leading educational institutions impose upon their faculties. Dr. Woodrow Wilson Sayre of Tufts Univer- sity has been the most recent victim of this absurd policy. On Ap-ril 3rd the Tufts student body picketed the adminis- tration building to protest the firing of Professor Sayre. The official reason given for his dismissal was \because of his failure to publish scholarly works.\ If this is the only reason, and of this writing no other reason has been offered, a grave injustice has been done. As far as we have been able to determine, there is no similar \publish presssure\ on our campus, and Union cer- tainly deserves praise for this. Mr. Sayre is reputed to be one of the best \teachers\ on the Tufts faculty. If he cannot regain his post there, Union could seize upon the opportunity of showing where it stands on the \publishing\ issue by offering him a posi- tion here. After all, teaching is our faculty's most impor- tant business, and from all indications Dr. Sayre knows his business very well. Spring Weekend Spring weekend, scheduled for May 15th is in trouble. Already in grave financial difficulties, the problem has been complicated by the fact that several groups are planning to hold a spring weekend of their own on May 9. There are some who claim that the planners of the weekend should have foreseen the difficulties and corrected the situation many weeks ago. The fact is that the situ- ation was gone over carefully before the date was set and the committee chose May 15 as being the lesser of two evils. On May 9 most of the athletic teams will be on the road and the campus population will be reduced substan- tially on that weekend. Whether or not this reason is more important than the fact that May 15th interferes with many of the girls' schools finals and Union comprehensives is no longer the question- the decision has been made and it is too late to think of making any changes. The important question now is whether or not this sit- uation can be prevented from happening again. Home ath- letic events at present have been arranged to coincide with parents weekend. The date for this weekend has thus been set for the next ten years in coordination with the athletic Dept. A similar arrangement should be worked out for Spring weekend. Convocations Mr. Zia Mohyeddirt proved to be a most refreshing \convocation credit.\ Now is the time that the Lectures and Concerts Com- mittee is busily at work lining up next year's speakers. We hope that all those who were dissatisfied with some of this year's speakers will give some suggestions to the com- mittee. Any students looking for a way to contribute their efforts to the college community will find many opportuni- ties open on the Lectures and Concerts Committee. The pay is minimal but you can't beat the hours. oo oveR Letter to the Editor To The Editor of Concordiensis: I am taking this opportunity to comment upon Professor Gado's comments upon my article in Concordiensis so that it is clear there is no basic .disagreement between us. I completely agree with his statement that the \pub- lish or else\ policy has no proner place in a college or university. .But I would like to point out that publication serves two useful purposes which can only be at- tained by this method. First, it allows one to communicate one's findin~s to others so that they may be able to use his discov- et•ies to further their work. The results of scholarly inquiry do not belong to the individual who makes the study; these results belong to the scholarly commun- itv as a whole. 'secondly, only by occasionally l'isking the exposure of publica- tion can one have his work judged, and have his results sub- jected to critical scrutiny. Thus publication serves as a check upon the validity of one's work and allows others to share in one's discoveries. I further agree with Professor Gado that the proliferation of journals is overwhelming; how- ever it should be pointed out that at the present moment the num- ber of living scientists is equal to all of the scientists who have lived in all of history prior to this century. Consequently the amount of work being done, good or bad, has increased propor- tionally. It is also unfortunate that spe- cialization has occurred to the degree it has, but I see no al- ternative when so much is known and so much is being daily added to Ollr sum of knowledge. The time when any single person eould be simultaneously learned in more than one area seems to have passed. Specialization in an area is the price we have to pay for accumulated knowledge. It makes little difference whether the field is science or other lib- eral arts; in both cases special- ists arise not by choice, but by necessity. What is needed is communication between the spe- Visit • • • cialists, and perhaps this dia- lo)rue between Professor Gado and myself will help to further thiR aim. Sincerely, Henry M. Eutzel Editor's Note: See the editorial column for additional informa- tion on this subject. To The Editor of Concordiensis: . Rather than belatedly, I would ltk~ to tal~e i~sue . immediately, whtle my 1re IS st1ll l'aised, to Robert S. Hoffman's masterful epistle which appeared in the March 20th issue of the Skidmore News. . Under a shoddy guise of face- ttousness Mr. Hoffman has in two columns flung to the winds if~>od taste, maturity, the name of Ius college, and the responsibility of his editorial position, The in- tent of his letter remains a mys- tery - presented to the wrong readers it is not criticism too much .a sophomoric bludge~n to be satire, too crass 'to be wit too Psoteric to be humor, too ve;bose to be sincere opinion, the letter has served only to air a whimper against his hormones. It has now been brought to the attention of 1,250 Skidmore gh·ls that Robert S. Hoffman has en- dured a long bleak winter. In conjunction with this he has kicked the much kicked dead horse of Union's conse1·vative policies. In a few hundred ridicu- lous bombastic words he has stat- ed his case against Union's social rules claiming that the college's monasticism has deplived its stu- den.ts of the better things in life. Umon has not attempted to t!nvart what is normal, her poli- cies have only tacitly stated \Do it elsewhere and be quiet ~bout it.\ This has never been found in the past to be too restrictive a demand. Ironically Mr. Hoffman has halfway complied with this de- mand. He and his libido have gone elsewhere, 22 miles north hut unfortunately he has lacked the tact to remain quiet about it. Lucian E. Ferster '64 (Continued from Page 2) Others had to be convinced: \It's none of my business\ or \Why should I vote?\ or \What good can it do me?\ A few were afraid: one woman wouldn't let us in, so we stood for twenty minutes talk- ing to a pair of frightened eyes peering out at us through the safety of a torn screen door. But such cases were rare, and, in general, we were well received. Amazing Ignor'ance What was most astonishing was the lack of knowledge on the part of many people. One woman didn't know who the President of t]le United States was; another hadn't heard that President Kennedy had died. Few were acquainted with the party system; many seemed never to have heard the terms \Democrat•• and \Republican.\ Those who were fall}iliar with the political situation smiled when questioned with which political party they wished to affiliate. The Southern Republican Party is a standing joke, and the mention of it invariably drew a laugh. One man of 85 did register as a Republican-for sentimental reasons. The last time he voted it was for a Republican: McKinley. Two Hundred Registered In five days, we registered close to two hundred voters, but what does that mean? How many will vote? How many will choose their own candidate? They will go to their churches and they will be told to vote for Richardson Preyer, for he is their candidate. B-ut is this democracy? We can never be sure; we can only hope that in the future these people will not have to be told who represents their interests. We can never be sure what we have done is right, and it is this doubt that curbs any self-righteousness we may feel. The Idol has announced a deadline for manuscripts to be pub• llshed in the last issue of this year. Expository writing is wanted as well as fiction and poetry. The editor hopes to he able to put out a considerably more substantial issue if he can only get the response of interested students. Manuscripts may be put in the Idol mail box in the Student Activities Office or in room 213 Richmond, Friday, April .ro, 1964 Friday, Ap ~--- rJ_a_u_·_-N~o-te_s_:-----------------------~1 ~O} B'town Swings :, 'Far By Tom l{rehbiel In the February 28 issue of Concordiensis, an editorial be- moaJled Union's \inferiol1ity com- plex.\ Well, last weekend I was treated to a fine demonstration of Union's inferiority in one area at least, and it w~:~s no complex. This demonstration was in the form of the Bennington Col1ege Jazz Weekend. Anyone who attended the so- called Jazz Weekend held here not too ago is aware of the fact that al- though it con- sisted solely of a concert that Saturday eve- ning, it was the best' Jazz Week- end presented here in quite a while. But in my opinion one concert doth not a Weekend sure I could find a good deal of supp01•t for this view from other students on campus. Whoever planned the Bennington Jazz Weekend cer- tainly had a better idea ,of what constitutes a Weekend than any- one around here. At Bennington Jazz Weelcend did not start (o;. end) Saturday evening. It began Friday afternoon and continued on throug·h Sunday. The Weekend was opened by Martin Williams, one of the best informed and most pe1·ceptive of the critics who devote their at- tentions to jazz. Williams gave one of his illustrated lectures and provided a good introduction to both the Weekend and to jazz in general. Friday evening the first live jazz was heard when a wncert was given by Billy Taylor's Trio. Billy Taylor is a fine pianist and leads a group which manages to be both smooth und ex~itmg. But Friday was only the opener. Saturday morning Williams and Taylor were joined by LeRoi Jones, Anna Socolow, Hall Over- ton, and some people connected with the c.ollege in a panel dis- cussion which turned into what . might be called a debate, except that it was not that ·organized l or polite. It was, however, in- · teresting, entertaining, and rath- er rousing. Jones made a \solo\ appearance after lunch in which t) he read some of his poetry and , . a short story which he had writ. ten. Jones has also wl'itten a number of plays, one of which 1 is now being p1•oduced: in New York and is the subject of a ve1·y interesting article in the most re- . cent issue of Newsweek At 4:30 that afternoon Hall Overton pre. sented a concert by his quartet featuring Teddy Charles on vibes. Both Overton and Charles are experienced in playing all types of jazz, but are best known for being perennial members of the avant garde. Things then slowed down until that evening w h e n Anna Socolow's dance troupe perfermed two numbers, one a world premiere with orig- inal music by Teo Macero. Sat- urday ended (and Sunday began) with a session by all the musi- cians around. There was another panel dis- cussion Sunday morning with most of the same participants and the addition of Cecil Taylor, whose group closed the Weekend with a concert Sunday afternoon. By the way, all the Weekend's activities were free to Benning- ton students and their guests. The whole point of this is, \Why can't it happen here\ I realize that the whole campus here is not vitally interested in jazz, but neither is Bennington's, Besides, a Folk Weekend al6ng these lines would not be too hard to plan. The other possible prob- (Continued on Page 5) '9f\fT¥+ttf'f'TtfYY+t¥tf9'ftYYf'f'f¥¥¥T¥T+fTttTfi9tT• UNION INN f 517 UNION STREET t ................................................ . EXCLUSIVE EUROPEAN FILMS! NOW THRU WED! SHOWN AT 6:30 and 9:15 I 117 Mohawk Ave., Scctia Academy Award Nominee: Best Picture of 1964! \AMERICA AMERICA\ \Best American film Of The Year\- Newsweek ~¥t'ftfTffftffffT¥1Wff'i'f'TYTtftfittft¥¥Yttfff\t'* DIAMANTE'S Enjoy our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOTT ST. OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M.- SUNDAYS 5 P.M.-3 A.M. For three Generations ••• Those Who Know. Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE I. WALTER Hauriue B. Graubart & Sons u3 Union Graduates in Graubarf Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY ·• Mr. Z f'ro orial . consisted ~ • Persian po In his very clear . halted exp on their I= of two lov the union ~ ed out tlu consider tl: conveyed t In cor forms, Mr advantage Hindus co1 spiration o Ly strict a of the bod din also )l Hindustani Logic and r two oppos experience Mr. lV yam's The Fitz Geral published i of The Ru Khayyam'~ of four lin Mr. lV examples • superb rna lyrical an< experience poetry rea to India\ renee of A Mot~ (Con1 ·accused gu sons for E convict arE posed. Om racial prej1 er able to another is · trial and Each finall audience s1 whi.1e the c In this pr careful vie· switching from one ~ EA! Ql w ~ 835 ~ Down Let t. A uni NIC Sin La•

ril lO, 1964 ohyeddin Illuminates East's Poetic Past ·Awards ... (Continued from Page 1) 225 .students. Each college could nommate only one student. · Alon hopes to work with the Mr. Zia Mohyeddin, a well known actot', presented a series of C~ 1 ~rese desk at the .state De- poems from the Far East at yestet·day morning's convocation at ~siame~~· H~ has stu~ted modern g Williams Memorial Chapel. His program, entitled \Love and Lyricism,,, stud n. tsih 1 y, Ch~d IS 1 currently by LeRoi consisted of a group of poems written by Pakistani, Indian ar:d He rmg D e , tLn~ste tandguage. Hall Over- p . · poets ' . · · ~ a ean s ts s u ent, a connected , · et smn · dormitory counselor, and a mern- a panel dis- ' In his discussion of Far E:astern poetry, Mr. Mohyeddin made: ber of the debating team. He is Into what . that the Hindus conside1· love as \the most ex- .. a'iso a ~ember of the Internation- ebate, except expres;sion of life.\ This, he said, has had a great bearing al Relatwns Club a!ld has played at ·organized on their poetry. Most Hindustani poetry considers the separation' ~occer for the varsity team dur- however, in- of two lovers as resulting in the utter darkness of the soul, while. tng the last two seasons. and rath- the union of ~wo Io:•ers is estatic del_ight. Mr. Mohyeddin also point- , J_ohn Rutherfoord~ a seni<!r at a \solo\ ed out that m their poetry, the Hmdus, as well as the Persians· ~mon, ~von a Nat10pal Science in which k) consider the possible embodiment of an expression of love to be best Foun.clat10n. scholarshtp. He is a poetry and conveyed throug·h the male rather than through the female. physics maJor. he had writ- NDEA Scholarships 0 Wl'itten a Hindustani Poetry Better Than Moorislt Anton B. Warde, a senior Ger- ne of which 1 • man major, has won a National in New In comparmg the Hindustani poetry to other similar poetical Defense Education Act Fell'ow- of a vei·y forms, Mr. Mohyeddin contended that ·the Hindus have one main ship for graduate work in Ger- the most re. advantage over the Moors. This advantage lies in the fact that the·. man at the University of Nebras- At 4 :ao Hi.ndu~ could 1 obtail theh inMspiratiohn of the body as well_ as the in- ka. The fellowships are awarded Overton pre. sptratwn of t 1e so~ . T .e. oors, owever, because .of the1~ ex~re:n;e- to prospective graduate students his quartet ly strict and ascetic rehgwn, we~·e _u_nable t? obtam the mspuation who intend to teach a foreign Charles on of the body, thus tremendously hmihng then· poetry. Mr. Mohyed- language at the colle _ 1 1 H and Charles di!l also ~ointed out that the sense and ~he sph:it do not mix in' will receive a three ;:arev$6 60 g playing all H1~dustam po~t;·y. !n other words, there. IS no d1chotom;v between fellowship. Prospective 'gr~du- best known . logic and ~ystlcism m the poetr~ of the Hmdus. The fact IS tha~ the ate students are chosen for the ITau Beta Pi • • • GERALD L. PHILLIPPE (Continued fi·om Page 1) to organize a local society, which, after a mandatory probationary period, could he granted a char- ter. Tau Beta Pi was founded at Lehigh Uni\'ersity in 1885. Student Centered Three Talks Next Week Next week, Cnion College wil'l host <l series or three addt·esses intended for the students, teach- ers, and anyone interested in biolog-y, l'hen{istry, and, as part . of the Faculty Colloquium, in South American litemture. Dr. James Wa1·d, Instmctor in Spanish and the· next speaker at the Colloquium, will ll'cture on Wednesday, April 15 at 4:00 . P.M., in Bailey Hall, J{oom 202. The ti.tJe of Mr. Ward's address is \Jorge Luis Borges: Labyrinth of the Pampa.\ Jorge Borges, a contemporary Arg-entine \\Titer has gained international atten~ tion through his short stories. Mr. Ward intend10 to use one of Borges' most famous works \Death and the Compass\ to ex~ plain the sen·ive of the 1'abvrinth a~ a~ image within the stoi~Y and w1thm Borges' philosophical view of the- existence of man. On Tmsrlay, April 14, at 11:30 A.M., Dr. Paul Mol'l'ow, of the University of Rochester, will speak for the Chemistry Club chem majors, and interested per~ members of two ?pposmg methods of seekmg k!lowle~ge from an emotiOnal NDEA fellowship by the univer- then experience are completely sepamted m their poetry. sities involved, although the evening Loves tbe Rubaiyat program is sponsored by the gov- low's dance ernment. numbers, Mr. Mohyeddin also commented on his love for Omar Khay- Anton studied at the Goethe Richard Budynas, president of sons in the Chern Lecture 201 Union's chapter, emphasized that He will tall{ about \Aerosol P1·op~ Tau Beta Pi. as an honor society, erties and Their Significance to is more student centered than Man.\ e with orig- yam's The Rubaiyat. He pointed out his strong disliking for Edward Institute in Munich, Germany Sat- Fitz Gerald's translation of this work. This translation was first last summer. He has participat- other honor societies. Although On Monday, Apt'il 1:1, there an organization of this sort re- will he a Biology Seminar at 7:30 quires something of a permanent P.M. in the Biology Laboratory staff. any changes or additions to Room 205. The guest lecturer the constitution must be ratified is ~r. Dietrich H. Bodenstein, by the student members. Chairman of t h e Biological nday began) · published in 1859. Mt·. Mohyedd-in contended that much of the charm ed in varsity track and cross- 11 the musi- of The Rubaiyat is lost through Mr. Fitz Gerald's translation. Omar· c(,)untry. Khayyam's poem is characterized by its use of stanzas consisting Barry L. Weinstein, a Spanish of four lines. major and senior was the other panel dis- with participants Taylor, Weekend afternoon. Weekend's to Benning- guests. of this is, here\ I · campus nterested in s, alcmg be too hard pro b- 5) ,,,,.,, .. N ........ ;. ... ED! i ' Sc<lfia week .. , .. , .... • -3 A.M. WALTER Played in \Lawrence of Arabia\ Mr. Mohyeddin illustrated his points through the reading of examples of Far Eastern poetry. As a reader, he is known for his •' superb manner and delivery. He has also been praised fol' his expert lyrical and tonal qualities. Mr. Mohyeddin has had much acting experience and the effect of this experience is quite noticeable in his poetry reading. He has starred in the movie version of \A Passage to India\ and he also played a leading role in the hit film, \Law- rence of Arabia.\ Mot111tebanks (Continued on Page 5) accused guilty. The particula1• rea- sons for each man's decision to convict are dissected out and ex- posed. One juror is seething with racial prejudice; another was nev- . er able to win over his own son; another is anxious to finish the trial and go to the ball game. Each finally submits to the logical and open-minded persuasion of the one juror who is able to see past the personal entanglements and misconceptions which bind the others. Most critics have agreed that , . the drama in \12 Angry Men\ is · and provocative. It rais- about our system of and our personal \~lm!JraJs that should excite thought , both in and out of the jury room. Experimental Arena The play is being presented by Mountebanks as an experi- in arena production. The stage placed ih the center the small theater gives a sense great intimacy between audi- r·~.:o•~~-·~ and characters. Professor believes that \12 Angry more effective on stage. He stated that is helping the actors the new problems posed the audience surrounds the Devices must be developed keeping the audience's atten- tion focused on the important characters, and tricks must be conceived to avoid having half the audience stare at an actor's back whi.1e the other half sees his face. In this production, for example, careful viewing will see the jurors switching their seats periodically from one side of the center table EASTERN AVE. Quick Clean Cleaner WASH 25c DRY 10c 835 EASTERN AVE. Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. to the other, so that both sections of the audience will have oppor- tunities to see theh· faces, Soft Seats Supplied Since the production of The Dybbuk, the Nott Memorial The- ater has been supplied with two hundred permanent, padded seats. The theater is well equipped with new dressing rooms, intercom, lighting, an elaborate ventilation system, and extensive facilities for sound reproduction and am:pli- fication. According to P1•ofesso1' Wingate, this is one of the finest theaters of its kind in the North- east. Tickets for \12 Angry Men\ a1•e available in Nott Memorial The- ater. The Mountebanks' next produc- tion will be three one-act plays on Parent's Weekend, May 1-3. These will be directed by students. · \12 Angry Men\ is Professo1· Wingate's last play at Union Col· lege before he leaves next fall fol' his new post as Chairman of the Department of Speech and Drama at Texas Western College. YVW9f1'f¥VitYiWt9'tTt9¥f9 ~ WALKER'S • PHARMACY, INC. N. J. Comanzo-H. L. Walker 509-511 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. FR 4-7709 t ...... ~. ..................... ~ JOHNNY'S MARKET 1514 Carrie St. COLD CUTS, BEER, GROCERIES Open Daily 8 AM- 9:30 PM Sundoy 7 - 1 :30 & 5 - 9:30 located Behind Superior Barber Shop l A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. ' . Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER I' For reservations phone FR .4-8917 ... Union student. to win the $6,600, three year NDEA fellowship this year. He will study at the Uni- versity of Buffalo. Dean's List Barry has made the Dean's List every term at Union. Last year he received the Hispanic So- ciety Prize for his work in Span- ish. He spent his junior year at Sciences Department at the Uni- At present two advisors have versity of Virginia. He will dis- been chosen for the chapter: Ed- cuss the \Hormonal Control of ward Craig of the Department Regeneration in Insects.\ Dl'. of ElectJ·ical Engineering ancl Bodenstein, one of the few ac- Walter Lowan of the Department comp'ish(•d men in this field has of Mechanical Engineering. Two worked in Germany, Italy,' Col- additional faculty advisors are umhia, Brazil, and the United yet to he chosen. \ ;:ot:ltes, and he is an expert in the Twenty-011e Honored endocrinolopy of insects. This tile University of Madrid under tile auspices of New Yorl\ Uni- versity. Bal'l'y was president of the Hillel Societv last fall. He has served as Vice-President of the Campus Religious Council. Elected to Tau Beta Pi this field is of \\ast importance to year are: Seniors, Jack M. Par- human endocrinologists, and to sons, Jr., Phillip J. Ganders, Rod- biologists as a whole, because the ger L. Myers, Bruce Joseph, Ter- genes of inserts are ones lending ranee J. Paas, Dennis Moran, themselves to study, while the David L. Hurewitz, Lawrence E. human genes are impossible to McCray, Eric H. Angell, Andrew work with. By researching into N V 1 1 J R' h d G the genes of insects. the finrling·s . ou.ou \OS, r., IC ar . h 1 . d Budynas, J. Lawton Morrison, can e app 1e to humans. Ci'VilRights .. 8 (Continued from Page 4) unteer work for Carver Com- munity Center in Schenectady, are requested to sign up for duty at the Monday Civil Rights Committee meeting. Elmira College and MiddlebUl'y College will each sponsor a civil rights conference in the nea1· fu- ture. Anyone who is interested in Jr., and Kent R. McArthur; and Juniors Richard B. Lapin, Bruce G. Fike, Douglas R. Smith, George H. Williams, Thomas J. ~\iessitt, Douglas R. KReipfer, Michael C. Meslink, and Jared J. Wolf. attending either one of these should sign up at the Monday afternoon meeting of the Com- mittee. WHO SAID Foreign Study is for Language Majors Only. Of course, it's for them, too. . But i~'s also fo~ undergrads !n history, political science, anternat1onal relattons, economtes, psychology, philosophy and some other fields. . We know. Over half the students in our university centers m Europe aren't language majors. They't·e pursuing studies in their own fields, and giving them a fresh European di- mension-without interrupting their college 'careers. Foreign study may suit you, too. (It isn't for everyone.) This is the time of life when the experience of Europe can mean most. It will mean most if you use it to deepen and extend your formal studies. Y?u might look into it-.and learn about our programs, in· cludmg a new one openmg next fall at the University of Madrid. Our centers don't offer mere \civilization\ courses. They aren't ~ozy little \~hettos\ for Americans. Institute pro- grams tmm~r:s~ you m a great European university as deeply as your abtlttles allow. (We supplement and guide your stud(es, as necessary, to make sure they satisfy U. S . requtrements.) fREIBURG • Regular university courses at the University of Freiburg, In the Black Forest; taught in German, with tutorials. For B-average juniors with intermediate German. Das Deutsche Jahr: $2,380.\ Das Deutsche Semester: $1,605.\ PARIS • French·taught Honors Program in Contemporary European Civilization for B-average juniors (and some top sopho· mores) with one year of college French. Academic year: $2,650. * MADR~O • Spanish·taught program at the University, for B·average JUniors (and some top sophomores) with two years of college Spanish or one year of college Spanish and two in high school. Hispanic Year: $2,610.\ VIENNA • English or German·taught courses at the Univer- sity of Vienna for C·plus juniors and sophomores. Previous German required only for spring semester. European Year: $2.380.* Spring Semester: $1,605.\' *Fees Include tuition, intensive language instruction, orientation room, most meals, two field trips, round-trip ocean passage. ' th;r;;~';';;~a;;· l ;~o;~r;:s;o;~·~or~;;dieS (nonprofit, ' nonsectarian) 35 E. Wacker Dr. • Chicago; Illinois 60&01 President James S. Coles of Bm,vdoin Col!eg!' recently an- nouncerl that the A \'alon Foun- dation of New York has awarded Bowdoin a $75,000 grant to aid in the construction of the Col- lege's unique Senior Center. CIVIL ENGINEERS Write for application and further information to Engineering UnitE New York City Persormel Department 299 Broadway, New York 7, N. v. 5 I Professors • • • ' (Continued from Page 1) with Nuclear Explosives. It will be held at the Davis campus of the University of California on April 21, 22, and 23, and is spon- sored by the Amer·ican Nuclear Society and the American Society of Engineering Educators. Finan- eiul support is being given by the A tornic Energy Commission, which is paying- Professor Low- en's tl'Uveling expenses and a per diem ::;alary. The purpose of the symposium is to speed the flow ef new informatiun to the col- eges. Among the many speak- ers will be men such as Edward TeHer. After the symposium, the participants will write critiques of the present educational system on the basis of the knowledge they gained. After the third day, there will be an inspection of the .:'>! evada testing grounds. Among the many on-campus duties a professor must perferm, he often makes time to take on added tasks beyond our black iron fence. Three such men are Professors Eisenstadt, Schwartz, and Lowen. Jazz. • • (Continued from Page 4) !em would be funds, but no one can convince me that a college half the size of Union, and less than one third as old can ·be sig- nificantly more affluent. Come 'm, fellas, are we going to let a bunch of girls show us up? Schaffer Library Cl RCULATION OF BOUND PERIODICALS • Attention is here drawn to the fact that Students now have the privilege of borrow- ing Bound Periodicals for a '=>eriod of two weeks. BIG Is the world's finest writing instrument-writes on and on-yet it costs only 19¢. Only BIC is guaran· teed* to write first time everytlme. BIC's \Dyamite\ Ball Point is the hardest metal made by man. Get a BIC, now at your campus store. BIC \Crystal\ 19¢, SIC pens available with blue, red, green, and black ink. Made in U.S.A. *For re- placement send pen to: WAlERMAN·BIC PEN CORP., MILFORD, CONN.

VOTER DRIVE Page2 Concordy Sports CIVIL RIGHTS Page2 Stickers Face Trinity i Baseballers Home Debut In Opener Next Week IAgainstHobartTomorro By Steve Dubansky By Ricky Resch Time Out: The Week That Wasn't by Dave Volkman After an Easter vacation scrimmage with Colgate University S · b t f t t 1 't which coach Bruce Allison smiling·ly referred to as a \learning ex- prmg comes · u once a year, un or una e Y 1 comes •---------------------------_.; perience,\ the Union stickers returned to preparations for their open- ·to Schenectady around June 3, as Union College's baseball ing game at Trinity on April 15. team can attest. The Dutchmen have not lost an opening Colgate completely dominated the afternoon's activities, but game since a bleak day at Cornell in 1:956. In the seven coach Allison wasn't too upset. \Colgate was the leader of the A · th U · h f h'l · division in New York State last year and is probably better than seasons smce en mon as won our openei's w 1 e ram- any team we will play th,is season.\ rr:he scrimmage acc~ntuated ing out three. In 1961 the Garnet nine surpassed all pre- basic weaknesses in the Umon team, but 1t also gave the Alhsonmen ·season expectations by having to postpone their first six a few hours of invaluable experience, which is so sorely needed. games. At present, Allison plans to g·o with Bob Dickman in the goal. . The defense will be headed by senior co-captain Bocky Mo1•gan and Hobart Tomorrow sophomore Bob DeMichele and either Tom Morgan, John Harvey, ?r Tomorrow afternoon at 2:30 the Ray List. Joe Stevens, junio1• co-captain, and s~phomores Howie Union batsmen open their season Weidman and George LaPorte head up the first mid-field. The sec- against Hobart on Alexander ond mid-field at present is Vic Fazio, Larry Dittleman, and Steve Field. Baseball mentor Art Law- Hopkins; the third line, Marc Hl!rlbut, S~ip Eames, and Tom Spen~er. renee doesn't feel that the team's Allison plans to employ his tmd-field hnes rather equally, lookmg lack of outdoor practice will hurt for more scoring punch than last year's units contributed. The attack since Hobart has been working is lead by John Hann, Jeff Schulteis and Randy Westby. out indoors, also. The fact that Though he joked often during the interview, Allison displayed Union's indoor facilities are su- an obvious deep concern for the lack of experience, the large nu~ber perior to Hobart's may even give of untried sophomores (six out of the starting ten) and a seemmgly the Dutchmen a slight edg·e. overwhelming schedule: Yet Alliso~ ~as great confi.dence that as the Saturday's contest will see Un- season progresses. all h1s charges will Improve st~ad~!Y· 1 ion playing without starters Larry The season will be a long one no doubt. Thete ~Ill be many goals McCray and Bruce Fike. Roth at·e to be made, ~1any shots .to be .stopped, and ma~y balls to be cleared. being initiated into Tau Beta Pi Expect no miracles. Pa!Icnce 1s the keyno.te th1s season,. If the team national engineering honor soci- can get a good start with a few early wms, then a wm~mg .seas«?n ety. McCray normally shags flies may be in the offing, If not . . . well, I hope Mr. Alltson 1s still in left field while Fike plays sec- joking at the season's end. ond base. ~l..L 0 e~ AGAINST H08AR\~ ~rU~Of\'1 AI A:3o f,M. ~ 1HAI \<; •• ., I . / :/ ·/ ' ~I Two Pitchers to OJ)en Season Coach Lawrence makes a prac- tice of splitting his opening game pitching chores. Rick Crookes will get the stat•ting assignment. Aft- er four or five innings he will be relieved by Frank D'Allaird. Hard-swinging Randy Kuhl will make up the other half of the bat- tery, With Crookes pitching, A1·t Mar- l shall will be starting at first base. The rest of the infield will have I Gary Brown at shortstop, Larry McDonald at third, and Gary ·Hurlbut filling in for Fike at sec- ond base. In the outfield Lawrence will probably start Rick Erdoes in I right, Rolf Kasper in center, and Graham Hubler in left. Crookes I will take over first base after his pitching stint and Art Marshall will move to an outfield spot. Tlte position of manage~• of the varsity baseball team is open. Coach Lawrence is very interested in filling it as so()n as possible. Applicants should see him immed- l iately in either his office in the gym or 'after 4:30 at the team practice. @--------------------- ~-- Art Marshall, Garnet first sacker and outfielder, practices form that brought him a .298 b.a. and team slugging honors last seas()n. Tim«; Cent~ .. J~w~l~rs \BUY WITH CONFIDENCE\ -YOUR AUTHORIZED KEEPSAKE DEALER 428 State St. FR 4-0183 Intramttrals !NetmenPrepare By Huward A. Goldberg :under Beaudry With the intramural sea>;on CHARLES Opticians two-thirds completed, Chi Psi After some question as to the leads the other 1(1 fraternities whereabouts of that mythical and independents .. with a point beast, a tennis coach, the situa- total of 597.71!~. In second place tion has been taken in hand by is Sigma Chi with 5:33.471 points the able swimming coach, coach and with 4 79.S:Hl points Kappa! Beaudry. Coach of. t)le freshman Sigma takes third place: Only 79: racqueters, the ongmal post of points separate the third place Beaudry, was ~aken over by P~t house from the ninth place house.j Dugan. Dugan 1s a five yea! engl- There are still plenty of points n~er a1_1d. ~3:s played ovt h1s V!il'- to be won and the points that s1ty ehgiblhty. may be obtained from good show- ings in handball, whid1 hasn't The Beaudry coached racquet- been recorded yet, softball, and ~en. are looking, forward to a track could shake up the stand- ~hfficult season with. four return- ings considerablv. 1 mg lettermen. Captam Jack Row- The winter i~tramural sched-1 ell will lea~ the team into battle ule sa>v Chi Psi winning the; and he wlll be supported by · · t . 1 ·t1 1 Kappa, returnees Paul Lesser and Jeff swtmmmg mee v. ~· F 1 , d p t 'W lk Alpha second. Bowling was WOf! ~mer,, s~n~ors, an : e a = by Phi Delta Theta with Pill ei, a .JUlllOI, Other stwng sup 'G d Delta Upsilon 1 port IS expected from George I am~a s.econ · Ch' p . bl' Masters, the outstanding star of was vtctorwus over . 1 81 Y a the Frosh tennis team last year, sco1·e of 51 to. 34 t<_> wm the bas- Hal Horwitz, John Laphey, Char- ketball champiOnship. . i lie Short, Rick Apter, Larry Lud- Track and Softball Remam · wig and Ray Didishiem, an ex- Remaining events on the intra- I change student from Switzerland. mural schedule are a track meet and a complete schedule. ~f soft- The opener on April 15 hall games. The frater~Ittes are matches the Gamet against the divided into the Amertcan and Trinity squad in what will un- National Leagues for softball doubtedly be a difficult match. play. League play started ye.ster- Following this match the Dutch- day with three games; S1gma men will come up against such Chi played Phi Gamma Delta, strong opposition as Syracuse, Kappa Sigma played Alpha Delt~ Rochester, and Hamilton. Phi, and Delta Chi played Phil Delta Theta. Games are played I Although the job of tennis on Achilles and Library Fields. . coach is a first for Beaudry, he is 1 looking forward to the season INTRAMURAL TOTALS i with enthusiasm and optimism. Chi Psi 597.713 Helping Beaudry is Pat Duga,n Sigma Chi 533.471 and a great amount of cred~t S' 479.836 must be given to him for hiS f,~f~amtgma -164.133 assistance. Dugan, an outstand- Kappa Alphn ·158.433 ing cvarsity tennis st~r. for the D u 453.915 past three seasons, a1d1.ng tre- Delta Phi 425.136 mendously as frosh tennis coach Theta Delt 403.771 and assistant to Beaudry. Phi Ep 401.053 Phi Delt 383.345 Phi Sig Delt :{81.620 Delta Chi 380.676 Phi Sig Kap 349.177 Beta 338.189 Sigma Alpha Psi U Inds Phi Delt 331.113 ~50.468 144.722 328.009 604 UNION ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Phone FR 7-1283 Prescriptions Filled Frames and Lenses Repaired Promptly HOURS: 9:00 - 5:30 YYfY¥Yf¥TYYYi'f9¥i¥'t''¥i'Y'¥f'YfT'¥'ffTft\9''f¥'ttTftY't'f¥* Dave's :$quire ~hop Summer Weight Sport Jackets MADRAS SEERSUCKERS DEN INS 24 .• 95 29.95 36 - 44 - reg. and longs 326 STATE ST Dally to 5:10 • T11es. & Thur. 'til t •••••• , ••••••••••••••••••••••• ,..+•••+++++++'++ ALthough the writing on this page may not always be in the best newspaper style nor of the most literary value, we do aim at truth- ful reporting of the events. We seem, however, to be bucking the trend as was shown in coverage given the Olympic Basketball Trials by the New York Times and New York Post, and in the subsequent selections of the Olympic Committee. The most glaring error committed was the failure .to give Wally Jones, a guard from Villanova, a position on the team .. The reasons given for his omission were that he was \clowning\ during the trials. This consisted of passing the ball through his legs wben it served no . useful purpose. Unfortunately this is the way Jones has been play- ing basketball all his life. He has also leamed, along the way, a brand of basketball that allowed him to execute the most outstanding assists of the tournament and was essential to at least one victory of his NCAA all-star team and valuable in the other two. · Reports classified Mel Counts of Oregon as a superb per- former. The 7 foot ectomorph I saw was consistently getting out- • positioned under the backboard by men four, five and six inches shorter than he was. Another center vying for position on the team was John Thompson. Thompson, though, md not get much chance to play because the team was coached by Slats Gill, Counts college ·coach. When the papers reported that the crowd in St. John's gym was antagonistic to Johnny Woodin, UCLA coach who also coached one of the NCAA all-star teams, because he played his team all at once for the first quarter and let the rest of the all-stars fend for them- selves in the second quarter, they were not exaggerating. The closely packed crowd of five thousand filled the gym with the cry, \We want Kramer.\ When the papers reported that the crowd changed their • estimation of Woodin ann supported him as the game progressed, the~· were mistaken. A collegiate crowd that began by rooting for the NCAA college players, finished the game decidedly partisan to the AAU offering and cheered the AAU win. In any trial such as this feelings are bound to be rubbed the wrong way. But when the team was so obviously picked In the ·minds of the committee and the sports writers before the trials, the value of these trials becomes dubious. THE ENGAGEMENT RING WITH THE PERFECT CENTER DIAMOND True artistry is expressed in the brilliant fashion styling of every Keepsake diamond engagement ring, Each setting is a master- piece of design, reflecting the full brilliance and beauty of the center diamond .•. a perfect gem of flawless clarity, fine color and meticulous modern cut. The name, Keepsake, in the ring and on the tag is your assurance of fine quality and lasting satisfaction. Your very per- sonal Keepsake diamond ring is awaiting your selection at your Keepsake Jeweler's store. Find him in the yellow pages. Prices from $100 to $2500. Rings enlarged to show beauty of detail ®Trade-mark registered. FAC COl Pa Vol. 95- The IFC is more im]; · will do all t going into t · vides the m in to the st is .. quires trust faculty. Faculty of the stude resolved The Co system. To the Editor As Studer f\nl10!':Inrm to 1 that thE tem. Howeve1 means invalid pl'CIOlE!mS than fre!shmem, and pose a systen pledg·ing durill the one propo feated in favo We feel t many advanta orient themse' sures of rushi represent on the ground acclimate ther Second, o with up] give the way toward ii first semester. r lass contacts any meal1 the SAGA foe open contact j and could ent1 Third, fre choices in ple hasty and SUJ and freshmen. become bas Fourth, OJ instead of vic houses, Noh semester. The We hear1 referendum OJ of the Studen system of ope •1~1·u~;n to go int Roll4 Yes David E Mark D Lawrenj Arthur La wren~ Thomas John B1 David I Raymor Richard Michael Stepher Howard Student President ~

the best truth- king the Trials bsequent reasons trials. no play- way, a· standing victo1·y per- out- inches team to college was one at once ,, them- e closely want their they for the to the the in the the FACULTY COLUMN Page 2 Vol. 95 - No. 22 An Editorial The IFC is sitting on a powder keg that could explode any moment, and if it does the damage will be for more .ex'L~u.,lve than many people realize at this time. The days will be taxing ones both for IFC President Mike and Student Council President Lawton Morrison. founded at Union College i'n 1877 SCHENECTADY, N.Y. FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 1964 POLITICAL SCENE Page 4 PRICE 15 CENTS IFC sc Passes Immediate Rush; System; Feared Supports Deferred F acuity Council Action can only hope that the patience and good sense that of them have displayed in the past year will not give to any impetuous, hot-tempered decision-making that result in a power struggle between the two groups. SC Passes Motion for Referendum ~--- -- -- ·-- ·-------~ I:FC Returns to Old System Miller's position is by far the more delicate one. The decision to revert to the immediate rushing system encountered great opposition from the faculty and from the majority of the Student Council members. The definitely seems to be running against the IFC. What is more important, there are indications that the faculty . will do all that it can to prevent immediate rushing from into effect. The Faculty Council Constitution pro- vides the necessary loopholes which enable them to step in to the situation. Once they take action, the Board of u\'\\\='\ is immediately involved, for the Constitution re- quires trustee approval of major policies initiated by the faculty. Faculty intervention would be disastrous to the stature of the student organizations. It is vital that this problem resolved within the framework of Student Government. By Andy Colb The student council met Wed- nesday night and passed a state- ment of opposition to the recent lFC decision to reinstate imme- diate rushing. A motion by Steve Yohay will subject the idea of immediate or deferrerl rushing to a referendum that will be voted upon in the next student body election. This motion followed a motion presented by David Ber- enson, that: the Student Coun• dl reaffirms its support for some type of deferred rushing system and that the Student Council strongly urges the IFC to recon- sider its decision to return to im- mediate rushing. This motion was ·arried by a 14-12 vote in a hot-j ly debated session. , Berenson Discusses l\lotion I The Concor(liensis is opposed to the immediate rush- Supporting his motion, Mr. system. The Interfraternity Council is mainly con- Berenson noted that, whereas the I S • • IFC represents only 707c of the I tud~nt Couned Pres1dent Lawton Interfraternity Council President _________ _.:_(C_on_t_i_n_u_e_d_o_n_P_a-.::g~e----'4) -----·-- __ student body, the student coun- Morr1son. Mike Miller. cil represents all of it. The im- ~~-----------. ________ _:__ ________ _ Letter to the Editor mediate rush, if employed, would ,-----------------------------. hinder several activities that need To the Editor of Concordiensis: full and undivided attention in As Student Council Representatives we would like to explain our the fall. Berenson mentioned Con- op))Ositicm to the immediate rush proposal adopted by the LF.C. We cordiensis, the football team un- ,.,,1.,.,,,-r that there are many imperfections in the present rushing sys- der the new coach. and WRUC as ' tem. However, the basic idea of a deferred rushing system is by no specific instances that need time means invalid and a return to an immediate rush will create more and attention to reform. Mr. Her- problems than it will solve. In the interests o:( the fraternities, the enson was in favor of an open, .freshmen, and the general campus community we would like to pro- but deferred, system where there pose a system of unlimited contact during the first semester and would be continual contact be- pledging during the second semester. This proposal is almost exactly tween frosh and upperclassmen the one proposed by the I.F.C. Rushing Committee, which was de- in the first semester. The reason feated in favor of a pmgram of immediate rush. for this is that not only can the · We feel that an open contact-deferred rushing system will have frosh get to know more upper- many advantages. First, freshmen will be given the opportunity to ··lassmen very well, but also that orient themseves properly to college life before undergoing th<:l pres- SAGA refuses to let the frosh eat sures of rushing. It is interesting to note that five of the six fresh- out of the dining· hall during the representatives on the Student Council opposed immediate 1•ush first semester. Thus, an imme- on the grounds that it would not give them the proper opportunity to diate rush would only result in acclimate themselves to the college environment. stilted contact on a limited basis. Second, open contact would allow the freshmen to form friend- Mark Dopkin, in supporting Ber- with upperclassmen, fraternity men or not. The upperclassmen enson, stated \The freshmen give t~em im;aluable advice and social c<>ntacts, going a long sho~ld not b.e su~jected to im- way toward 1mprovmg the morale of the freshman class during that med1ate rushmg Simply. beca!lse first semester. An immediate rush would not create any more upper- they don't know what 1s gomg class contacts since the would-be pledges would not be allowed to 1 on.\ . any meals in the fraternities during the first semester because 1 Prigmore Disagrees the SAGA food service could nD't withstand the financial loss. Under 1 .Mr. Daniel Prigmore dis.agreed open contact freshmen :w_ould be allowed to attend fraternity parties with Mr. Beren~on. Pngmore and could enter fratermt.les whenever they wished. suggested that smce the IFC Third, freshmen and fraternity members could each make better doesn't assert its influence in choices in pledging. An immediate rush would tend to encourage Student Council affairs, the s~u­ hasty and supel'ficial impressions, both on the part of the houses dent council shouldn't try to m- and freshmen. Open contact, on the other hand, would allow houses fluence the .JFC. . The upper- become based more on friendship and less on social acceptability. classmen's v1ewpom~ was ex~ Fourth, open contact would finally allow freshmen to rush houses pressed by Mr. Prig-more. He instead of vice versa. This has long been a goal of the fraternity mentioned that most frosh don't houses. No house will be able to attempt to \snow job\ for a full know at all what the brothers of semester. They must inevitably stand or fall on their merits. a house experience during a rush- We heartuy encourage the student body to participate in the ing period. The situation is ap- referendum on this issue that is being held along with the election parent that \Fmsh don't rush of the Student Body Officers. We urge the students to support the houses, houses rush frosh.\ In system of open deferred rushing instead of allowing the immediate grave concern for the future of ••~,, ... ,. .. to go into effect next year. Union, Prigmo1·e asked \where David Berenson '6-1 t1oes the spirit of the college come · Lawrence R. Dittelman '65 from - from Richmond House or Thomas A. Di Cerbo '65 from the fraternities.\ He ended Roll Call VoteAtSCMeeting his speech with the thought that an immediate rush would be most beneficial to the frosh because they would not have the chance to be \snowed\ and to the fra- ternities because rumors about their members or house facilities would not circulate. Y~s David Berenson Mark Dopkin Lawrence McCray Arthur Rheingold Lawrence Dittleman Thomas DiCerbo John Beckerman David Braff Seniors Juniors No Jeffrey Fulmer Jared Wolf Victor Fazio Robe1·t Francello John Perra Daniel Prigmore Sophomores Freshmen John Seifert Carl Axelrod Marc Hurlbut Thomas Spencer Raymond Pike (Proxy) Lindley Parker Richard Janney Michael Kaufman Stephen Yohay President MmTison announced that there appeared to be a com- plete lack of concern in the prim- aries for class officers, especially in the fraternities. He expressed the hope that there would be a much larger tumout for the final elections. Rosenberg, of the stu- dent tax committee, announced that the Dizzy Gillespie concert netted a profit of $67.80 and that this profit would be divided even- ly among those who went on the trip south. i Braff Asks Support 1 David Braff asked the council for its support in sponsoring a petition drive to maintain a stu- dent alcove in the John F. Ken- Howard Zatkowsky Student Tax- Frederick Rosenberg are urged to contribute as much \ nedy Memorial Library. Students Secretary-John Mazzotta money as possible toward the IFC Statentent Below are stated the reasons for the Interfraternity Council's return to immediate rush for the school 3·ear 1964-65: Deferred rush didn't accomplish the goals for which it \'i:as accepted. Under the present system, the majority of the students spend half of their four years involved in fraternity rushing, time which isn't devoted to study. With immediate rushing, pt•essures are virtually non-existent during the academic yeat'. It has been proved that it is possible to handle equitably fra- ternity rushing in a period of two weeks; this allo,vs the re.st of the year to be devoted to other pursuits. There have been many editorials and discussions about poor school spirit. This has been attributed to anything from poor freshman dormitory conditions to an overly intellectual student body. When a student arrives at college, and cannot find answers to his questions, and is unable to resol¥e many of the minor crises one faces when placed in a new environment, he tends to ascribe his problems to the environment itself. There have been many efforts to extend the service of orientation counselors and strength- Pn the faculty adviser system. These attempts have not s<llved the problems. To tbe new student the fraternity man is one \\Tho cannot be trusted as a friend or adviser under any conditions for the first semester. The fraternity man is out to rush and will stop at nothing to induce the \innocent freshman,\ or so the saying goes. The immediate rush obviously establishes at onee close and friendly, and natural contact between freshman and upper class- man. Thit·dly and minimal, house finances will obviously be im- proved through the additional funds supplied by first semester pledge dues and somewhat decreased rushing expendituTes. Beside the above advantages to this system there are h()W- ever, possible disadvantages. Foremost among these is the danger to a freshman's intellectual development posed by immediate l'Ush- ing•s social orientation during the academic orientation of class- work. The existence of this disadvantage cannot be proved or disproved by any known means, including the relative perfoi·m- ance of freshman under the immediate and delayed .rushing sys- tems. Thus, unless this objection can be further substantiated, it must be excluded from consideration. Another possible disadvantage is that fraternities demand excessive time from freshman during the first semester. In the past this time was spent in fraternity pledging activities, b1.1t at this time appreciably less time was spent in this area and appr<>JI:i- mately all time wasted on non-productive activities had been elim- inated on the campus. Perhaps the most serious objection against immediate rushing is that freshmen become fraternity oriented rather than university oriented. So long as fraternities maintain their responsible position in the Union Community, this probl€m is non-existent. The maintenance of this responsibility is inti- mately related to the preservation of personality diversity within the houses, to the nurturing of vitality and the eliminati11g- of stagnant, sterile groupings. Since this p1•oposed immediate )•ash- ing system safeguards heterogeneity, the above objections are minimized. The defects of immediate rush appeared to be less significant than those encountered in the delayed rushing system. Thus after sampling responsible campus opinion, studies made on ov~1· two hundred campuses, and listening to the report of a joint fa.cult:v- I.F.C. Committee on Rushing Rules, and analyzing the possible solution to delayed rushing's problems, the Interfraternity Council strongly voted in f~vor of the adoption of the immediate rushing proposal. Referendum Vote on Monday By AI Nahmias The Interfraternity Council, at a three-hour meeting on Monday I night, voted l:J-4 to udopt a pol- icy of immediate rush fo1· next year. Tom De Witt, head of the Rushi11g Rule:> Committe~. statetl that his committ~e endo1·~ed a prog-ram of deferred rushing, modified to give more first-se- mester contact than in the past. The committee's opinion was that immediate rush does not provide enough time for fraternities and freshmen to look at one another. The faculty was against a mid- semester rush which left the council the choice between imme- diate and deferred rush only. Fear Stereotypes When the debate itself began, De Witt came out in fa\·or of im- mediate rush. It was felt hv many of the men present, tluit deferred rush contributes to a more stereotyped fraternity. Freshmen get to know on(' all- other for the entire first semes- ter and, too often, instead of evaluating a house in terms of its actual members and what it has to offer. they choose a house because their friends are going t'1ere. Too often this adds to the disunity of a house and produces cliques which have no construc- tive influence, but merely serve to divide the fraternity. It was the feeling of most of the mem- bers that selection of a fratern- itv should be done on an indi- vidual, rather than on a group hasis, which rleferrecl ru!'!h pre- ventfl. Seek Guidance It was also felt that immediate rush would provide guidance for incoming freshmen. They would have help from upperclassmen in their studies, as well as advi<'e with regard to personal prob- lems. Their social lives would be \mproved. hopefully along with their indices. In general, they would be more a part of the col- lege community rather than in isolation from the majority of the student body in order to pre· sen·e a \clean rush\ program. Several representatives sug- gested that immediate rush would help increase the number of' freshmen who pledged houses. This is a matter of particular c~mcern to the fraternity popula- tion as a whole. It was felt that incoming freshmen, in a period of immediate rush, would not be exposed to anti-fraternity senti- ment and would get an opportun- ity to evaluate fraternities for themselves on the basis of their own impressions and opinions rather than on heresay. Opposition Speaks Out Those opposing the immediate rush proposal put forth several points. One feeling was that freshmen would not get a good enough look at the fraternities which they were joining. There was strong opposition to a four- teen-day \snow job\ engineered by fraternity men. The freshmen, being confused enough about the new college environment, would. be likely to fall prey to this type of system. Mark Dopkin supported this point when he mentioned that this two-week intensified rush could completely misrepresent the fraternity system in the eyes of the freshmen and that this was \the wrong way to save a fraternity house.'' Fear Dispe1·sion Anothet• feeling was that the immediate rush would break the Total Yes-14 No-12 , $250,000 venture. Their names as i contributors will be bound in President Morrison expressed his sentiments against the motion. , several volumes and displayed (Continued on Page 5) The Student Council sponsored Referendum will be an .attempt to ascertain student opinion on rushing procedures. Voting will take place at the same time ballots for class office are cast on Monday. · freshman class into seventeen separate units before they ever got to act as a class. The support which they might have given to- ( Continued on Page 5)

2 Guest Column: Union Woe By Professor Patrick Kilbum Supercilious Attitude What has this to do with Union? I submit that we are the vic- tim of our own baleful self-fulfilling prophecy. The new freshman arrives with high hopes and grand plans, yet in a year's time he absorbs enough Olympian scorn to beeome a sophomore. Part of his substance is the result of a healthful chastening, but at least as much of it grows out of his accommodation to the fashionable atti- tude of superciliousness toward the near and the immediate, which is a form of self-hate and is ultimately self-destructive. In spite of the differences in age, the story of the arrival of the new faculty member is not so very different from that of the fresh- man. He senses the prevailing mood, and before long he realizes, as do the old China hands, that the students are silly, vain, and over- sexed and the administration silly, vain, and overpaid. There's noth- ing to be done; it's all been tri~d, and everything has failed anyway. Paddy Chayefsky has an immortal line in his play Marty. Marty, the Bronx butcher, takes a homely girl out dancing, and at the end of the evening, Marty tells her, \You're not such a dog as you think you are.\ It's a beautiful thought: you're not such a dog as 11 )(! think you are. It's well to ponder that. • Criticized In to Paralysis Let me be understood. I am not Pollyanna-ish about this. There are lots of things wrong with Union, and for Ol11' own intellectual health, they need to be pointed out from time to time. But they are not the things that need emphasis now. We have already criticized ourselves into paralysis. What we need now is to realize that we are not such a dog as we think we are. Realizing that, we will have gained the frame of mind in which we can make some concrete, posi- tive plans for the future. Now, we're merely stymied. BERMUDAS Sizes 28 - 50 Continental and Ivy Styles Wash and Wear Many different fabrics 2.95 • 4c95 334 State St. We gladly Cash you!' checks VAN CURLER MUSIC SHOP 501 State Street $ RECORDS JAZZ POPS MUSIC Student Discounts CLASSICS Down to Louis', let us go, Let the Jager freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 _______ , RECORDS OF COMEDY - JAZZ - CLASSICAL - FOLK AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS TAPES AND RECORDS FOR RENTAL ON CLUB PLAN APEX MUSIC KORNER State St. at Corner of Broadway Phone FR 7-1112 RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featurinq: - HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS - Catering To Small & Large Parties Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week Friday, ·April 17, 1964 Entertainment: Dick Gregory By Robert P. Hoffman After leaving school the young Negro combined his natural talent for comedy with his native militancy about civil rights. The marriage of wit and purpose in Gregory's presentation immediately drew at- tention. One of the first Negro comedians to become successful with- out the facade of Uncle Tomism to hide behind, Gregory's rise has opened the gates for other talented Negro comedians to follow. Gregory is the only Negro ever to command the respect of his fellow comic artists as a straight comedian, rather than a southern dialec- tician whose humor is degraded by self-deprecating remarks and bawdiness. His delivery has become respected for itS own unique nuances, which, for a Negro, is an achievement of nq little signifi- cance in a medium so dominated by Jewish idioms and attitudes. Summer Study in New York I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I • Select your program from the I ,000 courses conducted for 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 12 and 14 week terms, beginning June 2 and ending September 4. MORNING, AFTERNOON AND EVENING CLASSES • In the Arts • In Bvsiness • In the Sciences • In Retailing • In Edvcation • In Pvblic Administration • l.n Engineering • In l.aw • In Commvnication Arts PROFESSIONAL- UNDERGRADUATE- GRADUATE College students in good standing at their own schools may enroll. Application should be made in advance. All courses have the same content as in the academic year. Stu- dents may take full year courses or a com- bination of single term courses. Credits nre ordinarily transferable to other institutions. Write to The Director of Summer Sessions for either Graduate or Undergraduate Bulletin and Application Form. NEW VORl< UNIVERSITY NEW YORK 3, NEW YORK Telephone: SPring 7-2000 Ext. 8097 or 8098 Friday, Apri Back in daily of the : fpeedom, ani in this light, to hear how was bombed how a white for the Neg1 pretends to 1 In Arne: · existed only still treating all very libe everything t and what is cannot be ca This Sp the situatior Alabama, V: forsaken\ ar with extrem of the malic right idea n enough oft whole NegT• so indignan1 South at all, I notice that the wh1 ant is a my1 not hate th Negro and' groes to be inferior and one, for ge: Negro lives. However, or longing to t: is not capab be his fault, It is tb the Negro's with him. ~ to the Civil that power whites are i the Civil Ri not want to Negro is pu Federal Go' strikes at t always beer a police sta is threatene freedom an: is this gene whether the The me against the for integra1 Negro cann too far beh of the Neg: solved by tl ernment. C many extre1 Negro-h'ate1 trary they short-sighte by the idea thus it is t1 a lower sor (

1964 and his smile of countless poorly 1 of the , for aon in.stant. and the It is and you at all,\ realize the in- fraud- confident and this think as the palm with the in it seems r in this y of the despite to pro- in the the en- rewards. the past, the per- old and and so. His ans date Hall be- not 1 at that Louis a leader ·al talent at- with- rise has follow. fellow dialec- and unique signifi- tu special for the lasts, them. will, of out as a ' It will $1.00. g • Friday, April 17, 1964 3 Two Union College Students Travel South First Visit South . cause the minister says so. They even quote from the Bible and i Virginia Incident By Ronald Prins prove that th~ Negro is inferior because God has made the Negro By Daniel Scully cell. I realized that my head was black as a pumshment. Back in Holland our American minded news media convince us During June '63 I hitchhiked dizzy and my nose was hurt. daily of the &'reatn~s~. of the Uni~ed St~t~~· ~our policies. of indi~idual 1 Return to Middle Ages , South in an attempt to see the In court Wednesday morning, freedom! anh-colomahsm and pr1vate mttlatlye ~re. adm1red. V1ewed Thus I think that you cannot blame these racists, for one cannot I cou~try. an~ to u_nder~tan~ the my bond was set, as was my trial in this llght, rou may unde:•stal1d ~ow shoCkiJ?g lt 1~ to all ~?ur fans blame somebody for being ignorant. Rather the v,ery powerful Baptist l'aC1al Sltu~t!On as l~ extsts Ill the for Friday. I was then taken to to hear how mnocent Negro ,ch1ld1en were. killed v;hen. then church Church should be blamed because the very rehgiOus people should South. I v;as travehng alC!ne and the Daonville City Prison Farm. I was bomb.ed, how Medgar Ever~ was shot m front of h1s hou~e,, and know bet~el'. But instea~ of changing the situa.tion an~ p~·ogressing, j w~s t?tal!Y unconnected wr~h any was still in a state of panic and how a wh1 te postman was shot m the back because he demonshated they go right back to Mtddle Ages by threatemng their smnmg and 1 otga~1zatlo~. ~~ly 1st .. I ~\ent to of <'onfusion. I didn't know what for the Negroes. Such events seem somewhat odd for _a country that doomed members with Hell and Purgatory. It is easy to see how 1 ~anv1lle, V1rgm1~. Wh1le m Dan- I had done disorderly. Nothing pretends to be the defender of freedom and tolerance m the world. religion and segregation go together in the South. v11Ie a state policeman asked .me seemed at all legal. · my name and what I was domg Thursday in jail was-symbolic- Southern Problem In a small restaurant I saw on the wall about twelve pictures there. He also asked me my be- ally-July 4th. By Friday I still In America I was given the impression that the Negro problem of Jesus Christ and right underneath them there was a sign saying liefs concerning Civil Rights. had not contacted anyone. existed only in the South where a hunch of ignorant farmers were that the owner reserved the right to serve whom he pleased. Late the next night--Tuesday- Friday, after ineffectively hav- still treating our black fellow-men as .slav~s. ~he Yankees, w~o are It is certain that the standard of living and the position of the I went for a walk to find a sand- ing asked for a lawyer, I went all very liberal and ashamed of the s1tuatron m the South,. will h'y Negro in the South is a great scanda1 that has to be changed as wich. Walking down the main into the court having no knowl- everything to wipe out abuses. They. say that the Negro 1s equal, soqn as possible, in spite of the fact that many Negroes are rather street I passed a group of police- edge of legal procedure. Two of and what is more, they almost treat him as such. Almost, for thmgs satisfied with the present situation and that they do not like all the men. Noticing the man 1 had the officers, making no mention cannot be carried too far, and you cannot deny that they are black. present trouble. They do not see all the segregation as insulting, talked to previously, I nodded of the previous or following for they have become used to it. \H\\ d t' d t lk events, claimed that they had This Sp1•ing_ vacation I ;went d~wn South to g~t a ~ood look at 1 an con mue · o wa on. the S ituation. With the Italian foreign student I h1tchhrked through Later I heard him calling my driven by my hotel and asked me Alabama Virginia, Mississippi, Georgia - in short the whole \God White ResiJonsibility name, so I walked back to the what I was doing. Incorrectly, forsaken ,', a·rea. Staying in big cities and in small villages and riding It is very important to realize that we have made the Negro group. Indignantly they began they claimed I answered \It's none 'nf · Th 1 h' askr'ng h t I f lt b t c· '1 of your goddamned business.'• I with extremists and more undesirable people changed my prior idea 1 erwr. e re atively 1gh percentage of criminality, prostitution, me w a e a ou · IV1 of the malicious South quite a bit. I cannot claim that I have the and relatively low I.Q.'s among the Negroes is no proof of the inferi- Rights and my attitude toward had no knowledge of how to tell right idea now, for I was only there a week and then I do not know ority of the Negro race. It only shows the miserable position we Negroes. Being idealistic - and the judge what had actually hap- . enough of the political, sociological and historic background of the have put them in. We are responsible, not the Negro. naive - I felt I could tell them pened and of how to carry it and St nnd up for · · through. I was found guilty of \\ ·ho·!a. Neg 1 · 0 problem,· however, most of the liberals here, who are \ my optmons. • The Civil Rights Bill is in itself a wonderful thing, but it may Soon a par·t1 'cular· local pol'cem n \disorderly conduct\ fined and left ., 0 1 'nd' 1 gnant about the ignorant Southerners, have not been in the 1 a ~ 1 b th . t Fl 'd not be the most appropriate solution to the problem. If it is passed, joined the group and became very on the next bus out of Danville. South a-tal, except may e on e 1 r way 0 ' ort a. it will cause a lot of trouble. The elevation of the Negro is a slow hostile. Their questions concerned I noticed that the people in the South are not \that\ bad and process which cannot be forced and brought about in a fortnight. reasons for being there. They C that the whole idea that Southerners are lazy, suspicious, and ignor- First people have to understand. The most important issue in this to show me that I was OfiCert • • • ant. is a myth, or at least exaggerated. Most of the people I met do matter is education. Only by education can the Negro achieve equal- \sick.\ The con- not hate the Negroes. They are conscious of the position of the ity. And the process of education will take a long time. But people cept of Negroes Negro and want it to change. It is true that they consider the Ne- in the North do not want a slow process. They point out that in the being equal hu- (Continued from Page 2) somewhat bombastic. Little eth- nic folk melody motifs drift in and out of the work which, if yo'4 like Dumka and that sort of thing, is really a fine example of its type. The performance was spirited and, although by the end everyone was hopelessly out of tune, <'ertainly effectiYe. groes to be inferior, but the point is that at present the Negro is last decades nothing has really changed in the South. But all these man b e i 11 g s inferior and behind the time. Of course, their position is an artificial people who are so liberal and cry about the poor Negroes should dive seemed com- one for genetically black and white are the same. Presently the first into their Northern problem. They call out that the Negro is pletely alien to Negro lives in uninhabitable, dirty shacks, and this is unnecessary. their equal, but they do not want one to move into their neighbor- them. In dis- However, one can immediately point out the same sort of houses be- hood, and they do not want one to have the same job. gust the local longing to the poor white people. By his lack of education the Neg~·o policeman walk- is not capable of doing the white man's job and, although it may not Northem Discrimination ed up to me be his fault, the Negro is often lazy, dirty and ignorant. There may not be official segregation in the North, but there is and inserted his Forced Association It is thus understandable that a white, although he recognizes the Negro's rights and his mistreatment, does not want to associate with him. This is the reason why the South is so strongly opposed to the Civil Rights Bill. Alsa, nobody wants to lose power, even if that power is based upon a moral injustice. For the moment the whites are in power. But, more important, the Southerner feels that the Civil Rights Bill will force him to associate with people he does not want to associate with, whether in his job or in public life. \The Negro is pushed down our throat,\ they say. \The interference of the Federal Government in state affairs and especially in our private life strikes at. the root of our personal freedom, a freedom which has always been a baae of American life. This is the first st«;P towards a police state,\ they .say. So the Southerner feels ~hat hts, freedom is threatened. One might say that he does not have m practice much freedom anyhow. On the other hand, it is understandable that there is this general antipathy against the limitation of personal freedom. whether the freedom is real or not. Slow Process The moderate people in the South, and that is the majority, are against the inferior position of the Negro, although they may not be for integration for pra14.tical reasons. Their viewpoint is that the Negro cannot be brought on the sam~ level overnight because he. is too far behind culturally and economrcally. They see the elevation of the Negro as a slow process, and as a problem that should be solved by themselves, without the interference of the Federal Gov- ernment. Opposed to these m01·e liberal Southerners are a good many extremists. They do hate the \Goddamned niggers.'' But these Negro-haters were not necessarily a bad sort of people, on the con- trary they were often very cordial and hospitable. They are ve1•y short-sighted and often just stupid .. They feel themselves. threatened by the idea of a change because \1t has always been th1s way and thus it is the good way.\ They are C()nvinced that the Negroes are a lower sort of people because they are educated that way and be- SAVE ON OWN BRANDS! Liquor Store 511 UNION ST. EX 3-3111 EX 3-3110 ONE DAY SERVICE CAMPUS CLEANERS All Work Done on Premises PICKUP AND DELIVERY 527 Noll St., Schenectady, N. Y. Opp. Union College Phone EX 3-5472 SENIORS! Please order your Cap and Gown immediately at the CAMPUS BOOKSTORE DEADLINE: MAY 1st a lot of discrimination. In integrated New York City there are a lot into miM and of Negroes who are worse off than the Negroes in the segregated me to go. Good Potential South. One can look at the slums in Harlem, Albany, and Schenec- Realizing the situation, I left tady and the often exorbitant rents the Negroes have to pay for and sat in front of my hotel. Lat- them. At Union the few Negroes indicate a subtle discrimination, er a police car with the local po- regardless of whose fault this is. Discrimination often has an !iceman in it pulled up along the economic base. People without any prejudice would not like a Negro curb and asked me something. family moving into their neighborhood because the value of their After I had asked him what he own property would go down. Most businesses do not have Negro had said, the policeman proceded salesmen because the clients might not like it. What is more impor- to get out of the car and stood tant--moral principles or money? Principles are fine as long as they over me. I was made to get into do not hurt you, and then what is more important than money? It the car and taken to the police takes guts to stand up for your principles if you know that you are station. In the car, he hit me going to get hurt. But, before the Negro has achieved equality (a true several times about the face, and The Pacific String Quartet seems to be a young group with a good deal of potential. Their work together is, for each of them, only a part time job. This shows quite clearly in their work, for the precise intonation and the strict attention to ensemble play- ing which we have come to ex- pect from the great string groups is only the result of individual genius combined with tireless de- votion to the details of group playing. This can be achieved in only one way: through thous- ands of hours of playing together added to an intimate knowledge of the musical resources. equality), we will get hurt somewhere along the line. We should shoulders. put aside our pettiness and cowardice. North Must Lead We should make the first step to get out of the vicious circle of discrimination, not by shouting that we love the Negro so much, but by proving it. As long as we are afraid of what people might think, and as long as we are proud of being so liberal, things will not really change. First of all, the \liberal\ people should loog earnestly into themselves, before getting excited about those Southern barbarians. The North first must end its own discrimination and prejudice, be- fore the South will listen to its criticism. ............................. ,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,, In the station I was directed to an out-of-the-way room. The man who had hit me in the car began to push me around the room. Aft- er he told me to sit in a chair, he stood smugly smiling over me and hit me with a back and forth mo- tion of the hand. The other po- licemen stood around ransacking my wallet and making \nigger lover\ comments through their similar grinning faces. I was petrified and panicky. Al- Thursday night's recital was the last of this year's three string quartet programs. These programs have presented a won- derful opportunity to experience and compare a wide range of string playing and quartet reper- toire. so, I realized I had no way of Panel Discuss·lon . reacting. UNION INN ~ 517 ~ ........... . UNION STREET Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOW-LING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES Jay Jewelry 315 STATE STREET 2JiamonJ6 ... Finally I was taken to the book- Union College will host a panel ing room and charged with \dis- discussion on \Automation and ord_erly conduct.'' They continued Industry\ 011 Monday, April 120. to-build up the pressure and de- The discussion will feature Vin- spair within me. While attempt- cent T. Evan of the United Steel ing to answer their questions I workers of America, Sumner was knocked to the floor several Shapiro, Industrial Relations di- times. A group of policemen con- rector of Star Textiles Inc., and tinned to stand a1·ound watching. Professor John Weinrich of Un- In the jail I was told I could ion College. not make a long-distance tele- The purpose of the discussion phone call, so I was unable to let ;vill be the evaluation of the in- anyol?e know wher~ I was. The creasing importance of mechan- remamder .of that mght was spent 1 ized labor in industry. The 1'ami- on the gnmy floor of a bedless f f f f f f f T f W 9 Y f f f f f 9 f f f f f f ¥ t f f\T\\'Y'\Tf 9 T i' i' Y T t 't + y 'TTy¥ DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages I 18- 120 JAY STREET .,., ....... ,~, ...................................... . Co. fffftffTTTffTTTtTTf'Ytt STUDENT TRAVEL • College Tours • College Study Programs STUDENT & FACULTY GROUP TOURS Arranged at LOWEST PRICES Books Now Open for Summer Vacations in Europe Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. Schenec.tady Travel Bureau, Inc. Est. 1930 .. 328 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. PHONE FR 7-8506 Arnold Fisher '50 __ \ Agents For All Leading Airlines- S.S. Companies - Railroads and Car Rental Cos . . ..... , ........ ,, ....... .

4 Oinurnr Published Fridays dUl'ing the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N, Y. Na· tiona! Advertising Representative: National Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative. 420 Madison Ave., N. Y. C. l~ditorial Office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, Sche· nectady Printing Company, 502 Broadway. Enterel in the Sche- neetaUy Post Office as S'econd Class ~Jail ~latter. SubscriPtion 15c a copy: $3 a year delivert>d anywhere in the l'nited States. ' LARRY HOROWITZ '05., ................ 346-9895 ......................................... Eclltor-in-Chief l\IARK OBENZINGER '65 .............. 393-SiSO............. .. ....... Bu•in''\S ~lanag<>r WILLI.\..\! T. WI;>;:\!-: ':: 1 A<lviser EDITORIAL (continued) cerned with the well-being of the seventeen fraternities. But we are concerned about the class of '68, which stands to be the victims of this system. We are amazed at the ease with which the IFC state- ment dismisses any concern for the freshman class by say- ing that although immediate rushing may be harmful (or helpful), still you can't prove it now so it must be \ex- cluded from consideration!\ They admit that there is a possibility that it will be harmful, and to our minds this is reason enough why de- ferred rushing must be maintained. In courtroom proceedings the phrase \beyond a rea- sonable doubt\ has a great deal of meaning. We submit that even the IFC proponents of the bill have a \reason- able doubt\ about the effects of immediate rushing upon the freshmen. A random sampling of the faculty showed that 25 out of 25 faculty members were strongly opposed to the im- mediate rushing system on the grounds that it would hurt the freshmen's chances of making the necessary academic adjustments to campus life. It seems to us that while fac- ulty intervention is to be definitely avoided, their opinion on the matter of academic adjustment should be weighed heavily. One point that has been completely overlooked is that a return to the immediate rushing system would nullify the most significant piece of legislation to come out of the IFC this year - the setting of academic standards as requisites to pledging. The future for fraternities can only brighten if they show that they are making a meaningful contribution to the intellectual climate on campus. By setting academic stand- ards for themselves they at least moved in the proper direction. We feel that Freshmen should prove themselves able to handle their studies before joining a fraternity. We are sure that the fraternities would not like to have their in- dicies brought down (as they would have been this year had immediate rushing been in effect) by freshmen who aren't up to college work. David Crandall, a vociferous proponent of immediate rushing, expressed opposition to the fact that freshmen are to be allowed to vote in the referendum motion. Being closer to the class of '68 than Mr. Crandall, and having just lived through rushing (and being best able to remem- ber the confusion of those first few weeks at college) , they certainly should be heard. Perhaps Mr. Crandall is aware of the vote in Mr. Kilburn's freshman English class which was 19-3 in favor of the deferred system, and the results of Freshman Council Representative Yohay's own poll which showed the freshmen to be overwhelmingly in favor of deferred rushing, and that is why he is opposed to let- ting them vote. We cannot see how any IFC member can honestly be- lieve that a freshman will have a fair chance to make a proper decision if he is rushed on the first day of classes. The IFC statement says, \The fraternity man is out to rush and will stop at nothing to induce the innocent freshman.'' This refers to the present system. If the freshmen are \innocent\ after six months here, how will they be after three days here? If the fraternities try to trick freshmen while the present systm is in effect, how can they fail to be more effctive at trickery when their victims are not yet even college students? We cannot see where the advantages to the fraternity are so great that we should not give the freshmen the benefit of the doubt, avoiding what the IFC has termed \possible disadvantages\ of the immediate rush system. They states in their own letter that fraternity financial considerations are minimal. The only motive which we can see behind the move for immediate rushing is one which would give the weak fraternity, the one which would not, after rational .consideration, attract prospective members, the advantages of a veil of darkness with which to shroud the blind freshman. It is just vaguely possible that immediate rushing is the better system for all concerned. But as long as a \rea- sonable doubt\ exists on the part of so many, let's give the benefit of this doubt to the freshmen. They need every bit of help that they can get. fl£1Y SAYS W'E. ~:-li,ft···p~cTit:E . \'\ - ·. -~: . ~~t:Hil ~-- .·. -------.. ... J Letters to the Editor To the Editor of Concordiensis: I do not usually stoop to an- swer the type of personal invec- tive hurled by Lucian Ferster in a letter which appeared in last week's Concordy. However, Mt·. Ferster made a public spectacle of his propensity fot· mud-sling- ing by maligning a friend of mine, and by grievously distort- ing the nature and intent of the article towards whicl1 his blast was directed. Contrary to Mr. Fester's specious assertions, the article on L'nion's social rules was neither insincere nor eso- teric, nor did it go undet• the shoddy disguise of facetiousness. It was a blatantly caustic attack on one aspect of the unfortunate state of affairs at this college. Mr. Ferster's attitude that issues which have been discussed but not acted upon are dead is ab- surd. His interpretation of Mr. Hoffman's \epistle\ is equally absmd. The letter \Vas not only about sexual gratificution, as Mr. Ferster has misconstrued, but apout the need for adequate fa- cilities for the entertainment of guests. Perhaps he should be made aware of the fact that such entertainment is not restricted to labial excursions and clitoral investigations. If Mr. Ferster's incorrect assumption is that sex alone is implied in a petition to allow girls in the t'Ol>ms, he should realize that a student un- ion does not exist, and will not for at least several years, and that allowing girls in the rooms could be accomplished immediate- ly. I take it that Mr. Ferster is aware that students to whom sex is all-important find a place for it, regardless of college restric- tions, and that the inconvenience placed in the way of those who would like to listen to records, converse privately, or even pro- vide a guest with a place to rest if she is tired, is not significant as a reflection of a deterrent to the practice of coitus. It is only significant as a remnant of the stuff-shirted traditions at Un- ion. And where, pmy tell, did Mt·. Ferster get the not ion that the college's policy of \rlo it else- where and keep it quiet\ has worked for any but fratemity men, or that such a poliry is con- sistent with logical thinking? If the College believes in \what is normal\ there is not sufficient reason for it to believe so \tacit- ly.\ Harvard and M.I.T. have not withered away, though they most certainly should have if open be- lief in liberal dorm regulations is a pt'elude to some ominous event. Of course, it would be difficult to ascertain from Ml'. Ferster's let- ter why tacit approval is less than hypocritical, for his letter is more confusing than it appears on first reading. First of all, he asset·ts that Editor Hoffman \has lacked the tact to remain quiet about\ his visits to Skidmore and that Mr. Hoffman must have had a \long bleak winter.\ 1 don't believe that Mr. Hoffman'::: letter had anything to do with his social life, that Mr. Hoffman is ot· need be ashamed of his so- cial life, that he has had a long bleak winter, m· that it is any of Mr. Ferster's business if he has. His article was written with the intent of arousing responsible people to action, not evoking a ::;cathing blast of vacuous asser- tations. Far be it from me to suggest that the self-righteous senior de- vote his literary talent to con- structive ends, but I think Mr. Ferster should be admonished from dirtying the pages of Con- cordy with his untempered male- volence. While satire may be ap- propriate in a paper, personal in- sults, especially when grossly in- accurate, are deplorable. There is less need for tact, Mr. Ferster, in discussions of social regula- tions than in th·.! context of re- sponsible criticism. Your irre- sponsible display merely refle~ts the state of youl' psyche. Perhaps you should play ball to let out your aggressions. But don't ob- struct the path to reform at l:n- ion, because it is desperately needed. Robert S. Hoffman '65 To the Editor of Concordiensis: We at the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn hnve, for the past two years, published a science f'irti on magazine called the Syfix. The purpose of this magazine is to make some science fiction available to the many fans at our Institute and allow those who m·e interested to get their stories published. It has worked very well for us but we feel that it is time to expand and contact other (Continued on Page 5) Campus Calendar April 19~0rgan Reeital, 1\lemorial Chapel, 4:00 P.M. Ecumenical Dialog, Memorial Chapel, 8:00 P.M. April 20-Final elections for class officers. Election Calendar: Student Council Representatives Wed, April 22 12:00 Noon Thurs., April 23 Monday, April 27 Student Body Officers Tues., April 28 Thw·s., April 30 11:30 A.M. Elections Petitions due Primaries Final elections Student Council caucus Student body meetings -Memorial Chapel Monday, May 4 Student body elections Card Party-Women's Staff- Association. Members of the College Community are invited. 7:30 P.M. at Hale House. Atlril 21-0rchestra t·ehearsal, Memorial Chapel, 8:00 P.M. Dormitmy meeting, Old Chapel, 6:30 P.M. April 22-Goodwic:h-Duane Public Speaking Contest, Nott Memor- ial, 7:30 P.M. April 23-Professor Paul Edwards, \Determinism and its Critics,\ Nester Fund Speaker, Bailey Hall 304, 3:00 P.M. Naval Aviation Information Team, Hale House, 12:00 A.M. to 12:00 P.M. New York Intercollegiate Mock Senate in Albany. Contact Mark Dopkin or Art Rheingold. April 24-Film Series,\Last Year at Marienbad,\ 7:00 P.M. and 9:00 1\M. Friday, April 17, 19·64 Politics: All Antericans By David Berenson We are p1•oud to announce our selections for the All-American Politicians Football Team. To qualify, a candidate must have played college football and be prominent in political life. As wHI be seen, one position has been left vacant because of a lack of a qual\ ified candidate. Any l'\Uggestions for this or any other position will be gratefully accepted. The team: Left End-Edward \Ted'' Ken- nedy, Harvard. Curently United States Senator from Massachu- setts, he comes from a prominent football family. While he may not be as good a touch-football player as his brother Robert or sister-in- law Ethel, he is selected because of his greater proficiency in the college version of the sport. Left Tackle-Richard Bolling, Se- wanee. Bolling is a Democratic Representative from Missouri who is trying to tackle the Conserva- tive Coalition in Congress, hope- fully with better success than he had in his college football career which he concluded by hreaking his leg. Left Guat·d - Endicott \Chub\ Peabody, Harvard. An All-Amer- ican while in college, he is the son of Mrs. Malcolm Peabody who recently gained some notoriety during the civil-rights demonstra- tions in St. Augustine, Fla. He is also Governor of Massachusetts. Center-Ge1•ald Ford, Michigan. (Notice as we move from the left to the right side of the line, we move from Democrats to Repub- licans). Ford was Michigan's out- standing player his last year there and currently appears to be one of the more outstanding young Republican Congressmen. Right Gund-Position open for worthy applicant. Right Tackle - Hamilton Fish, Harvard. Fish was a two-time selection to Walter Camp's All· American team. His career as a Congressman from New York, un- fortunately, did not compare fav- orably with his athletic achieve- ments. He is chiefly remembered as one of the more virulent isola- tionists just before World War II. Right End-Richard \Tricky Dick\ Nixon, Whittier. Nixon did not display any great football prow- ess in college, having barely made the team. However, he is selected here because of his ideal qualifi- cations for end. He is evasive, shifty, and difficult to pin down. EXCLUSIVE EUROPEAN F1LMS! Quarterback - Clarence \Bud\ Wilkinson, Minnesota. Although he was an excellent quarterback at Minnesota, Wilkinson may not at first glance appear to have the political qualifications for the team. However, he is currently running for the United States Senate and does not seem to have any qualifications for that position either. Left Halfback-Byron ''Wllizzer\ White, Colorado. He was an All- American at Colorado and later sta1Ted for the Pittsburgh Steel- et·s. He is curently starring on the beneh of the United States Supreme Court. Right Halfback-J. William Ful· bright, Arkansas. Fulbright's chief qualification for halfback is his great ability to reverse his field, an example being his switch quickly from filibustering against the civil-rights bill to unveiling the myths in our foreign policy. Fullback-Pwight \Ike\ Eisen- hower, Army. Eisenhower was a player of promise until a knee in- jury ruined his football career. Fullback seems to be the ideal position for him, allowing him to plunge up the middle instead of having to move either to his right or left. Placekicker - Nelson \Rocky\ Rockefeller, Dartmouth. Follow- ing a trend in present collegiate football, we are selecting an ex- soccer player as our placekicker. Barry Goldwater was also consid- ered for the position, but it was decided that his foot more often winds up in his mouth instead of on the fall. If there is one term that makes a college catalog spurious, it is \advanced mathematics\ For, it has been lately said by many, there is not a mathematician liv- ing who can understand one-half of the new mathematical research being reported in professional journals. This year, Clemson College un- tracked, made a decision ·well calculated to close \the mathe- matics gap\ at all educational levels in South Carolina. Effec- ti-ve this year, are revised fresh- man-year curriculums in engin- eering and industrial manage- ment. No longer are algebra and trigonometry, the first mathe- matics course applicable for de- grees being analytic geometry and calculus, included. NOW THRU WED ! COMPLETE SHOWS at 7 and 9 117 Mohawk Ave., Scotia A NEW FRENCH FILM! \ONE OF THE WILDEST AND FUNNIESf GIRL [6.') HUNTS IN MANY A YEAR\ ~ -lifeMag. ;or-y-y tty t i W y t t t TV Y t t T t W 9 t Y 'f t y f T T T TtY 'f 1'¥ f T T f t' T T T T\ D I A M A N T E ' .ts Enjoy our Fi.ne Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOTT ST. OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M.- SUNDAYS 5 P.M.-3 A.M. For three Generations •.• Those Who Know .. Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Maurice B. Graubart & Sons \3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY '1 ,, 'l' .... s • . ' ·' .. ,, il Si 'l'h~ ·ate Men: gel! (E (Chem), Richard cis U. H Harlow . witz (P . EE), E Kor (' ), 1 v. (ME), (EE), J Charles Profe dent, w in lieu Profess· batical. Kin Poe Galw tions oj ed stu1 rlay, A Hale · acting Depart: one of promisi today. The which i • Depart tiona! Acaden to enal the po would I turium. he the read in~ Kinn ground rec eft to month~ ed in :\I. A. 2 ester. He f Alfred \'ersit:y l'eSUffi4 1981, • ' 1 \'publisl the AI 11 1\ In l:nitec search to1· in York \ other the 1 1960. Sil1( '' •·in N~ 1960 1 publis Kiugd • 1 ,. FlowE dnock given ship J rlatioi ·' '·'the 1 and I self t he to tion i run I Equa:

'Bud\ not the the Ali- later Steel- on Ful- chief his field, a in- ideal to of ollow- egiate ex- was often of makes ' it is it many, liv- ge un- well he- Effec- fresh- engin- and de- u ... ., ., ; .. ., ' ... s • 5 Sigtna Xi Elects lJ nion Scholars School Sets Oft-Campus I~egula'tions--- '1~*\o Professors To·- Instruct n-----N ear --East Drew Cites Plight Of Today's Educators --- ·-- ----· \Many more young students By Barry :-.!ewma:n . I are concerned with the direction By :.Hatt Katz By Pete i\Iiehl that society is taking today than Professor John M. Bradb1:1ry ever before. We know that these The national science and engineering honor siciety, Xi, has elected twenty-nine Union students to its ·ranks. Promoted to full membership was Dr. Peter B. During the past few years and Professor Leona-rd B. Clark young people possess more in- some members of the senior class have been recipients of honors · telligence and concern, but be- Kahn, class of '56, who is currently an Assistant Professor . of physics at the State University of New York at Stony , L. I. ~· have been allowed to live off invoJvil)g &}114¥ and in~truction yond this we don't. understand campus if they met certain re- abroad cfunng the comwg ara- the directions that they are tak- Quirements set by the college. demis year. Dr. Bradbury is go ing.\ With this as an introdue- Due to the increasing need for ing to the University of Istanbnl , tion, Dr. Elizabeth Drews, pro- Science Honot· Society Founded at Cornell in 1886,. Xi gives l'ecognition to who have taken at least half of their work in science and engi- neering- courses and have shown in two or more of these. inee must show some and proficiency in re- Promotion to full follows the comple- of a published investigation of some merit. The seniors elected to Associ- ate Membership are; Eric H. An- gell ( EE), Francesco G. Belli (Chern), Michael J. Berson (PM), Richard G. Budynas (ME), Fran- cis U. Hession (Phys), Richard L. Harlow (Chem), Harold M. Hor- . witz (PM), David L. Hurewitz · EE), Bruce Joseph (EE), Leon- Korn (Math), James R. Law- (Chem), Paul B. Lesser) , Pete Nicholas (PM), Ter- V. Paas (ME), Joseph W. · Dudmin (Phys), John P. Ruther- . foord Jr. (Phys), Robert Schafer (Phys), Robert F. Silverberg (Phys), Robert A. Warner • (Psych), William C. Wells (Phys). Graduate students to become •)~ssociate Members are: RobertS. (ME), Asher Engler .._\\'u,uuu L. Forman (ME), J. Griffin (EE), Kenneth Haefner (EE), Edwin F. Phelps (ME), Richard L. Rhodenizer (EE), James H. Terhune (Phys), Charles E. Thomas (EE). Professor Goble, acting presi- dent, will conduct the ceremonies in lieu of the current president, Professor Hewitt, who is on sab- batical. Richard Bobilin more dormitory space, this pol- in Turkey under a Fullbright F I-I 1 fessor of edu~ation at Michigan 1 icy will be conti-nued next year. lo~·ship, and Dr. Clark will be 1 State University, began yester- 1 Students who qualify for this Fu 1 lhright-Hayes Exchange Pro- I· day's convocation in Memorial privilege will be mostly juniors fessor at the American \C\niver- Chapel concerning the major who live presently in dormitories sity of Beirut, Lebanon. 1 1 pr0blems facing educators today. and who have not signed con- State Department Sponsored tracts for dormitory residence 1 Solutions Hoped For next year. Fratemity members The fellowship prog1•am, initi- , Thet·e is hope these pt\Gblems will a'Iso be allowed to live off ated under the Fulbright Act of I which are IJeuond us How can be 1946, enables American scholars \ campus in the fall if their chap- to visit foreign lands, and teach !' e\·entually SQived beeause young 'er house will he full in Septem- in foreign universities. The act, people today are able to under- her. which is administel•ed by the I stand things that we have never Reason G:ven State Department, provides pay- before understood. To support Asked why only some seniors ment of nearly all expenses in- this, she told of Mike, a seven were to he allowed to live off- curred by the instructors during year old boy, who was able to campus. Pollock replied that Un- their stays abroad. compete 011 at least an equal ion College first of all, is a school At the U11iversity of Istanbul. level with graduate students in that has constructed facilities for Professor Bradbury, who is a Elizabeth Drew mathematics at Michigan State campus residency of its students. member of the departments of University. Mike was also inter- Thus, it has always been Union's Art and English here, will teach I ested in economics and human re- policy to have all undergraduate courses in American literature, Asia with Europe, holds signifi- 1 l~tions. ~h~ ~tated she ~till. <.loes~ students, except commuters and and modern American fiction. In cant biological as well as cultur- 1 n t k!fO\', \'h~t to <.lo wtth :='- bu.Y married men, live on campus. In addition, he will head a fresh- al meaning and according to ~f thts mtelhgence. But Mtke 18 recent years, due to the increas- man course in \American Life.\ Professor ciru:k, provides highly JUst on.e small b~y, _£rom one ed enro'lment and the number of I Dr. Bradbury is still a bit unsure stimulating opportunities for re- small vrllage. Thm e. may. be a_nd transfer students, the colleg·e has of exactly which aspects of search probably are more JUSt like h1m · throughout this country. altered its policy and has permit- American life the Turks would f ted some Seniors to live off cam- prefer to have described in such Both men will be on leave rom I What does it mean to become B b •z• w.· pus if they desired and could a course. Union College next year. Con- more human than we are now? 0 \ \H \nS ·r · A f trary to previous announcements,! How <.lo you go about encourag- , , , meet certain quah .JCatw;ns.. s. 0 Bradbury to Travel Professor Bradbury's courses in ing these youngsters properly? the present there lS no md!catl~n Professot· Bradbury also in- humanities and art will be taught These are the questions that our 7\.T AS' A Grf'*nt I that Union will change back m tends to travel in France and during his absence by Hans. educators are presently attempt- 1 l' ..t:l :.C:I. ._. the near futur~ to complete un- Italy before arriving in Turkey. Freurtd who has recently been~ ing to answer. But for the time F Ph • <lergraduate residence on campus. After his stay, he plans to go to engaged by the college. ! being, these children are plagu- Or YSlCS . . 1 Egypt and Greece. Throughout ing both their pa ·ents nd the· .=\'o Res1dence Prob em thl·s time he \'ill be preparing The program of fellowship , · 1 a . ll' \ grants also serves as a method teachet s beca~se of the1r at- Richard Bobilin, a sophomore Union can next year accommo- slides of the art and architecture for dealing with war debts to the tempts to d1scove1· more for independent, is recipient of a date the residence of all students of these areas, especially that of United States. Senator F. w. the:ns?lves. ::A teacher 'com- \LA.S.A .. scholarship. ~.A.S.A., on campus even with room to Byzantium, for the Art Depart- Fulbright suggested, in 1946 , p,lams to me, sta!ed Dr. Dr~ws, _he NatiOnal Aeronauh~s and spare. '!'his is due to the fact ment at Union. that monies and credits of allied that every m_ornm~ Pat gives Space Administration, commands that every year numerous frater- Professor Clark, Chairman of ·ountries acquired by the G . .s. me m':ntal a1;tthmet1~, problems _he manned space progTam. nity houses are not filled to ca-1 the Dh•ision of Sciences and the through the sale of surplus prop- that I JUSt cant solve. A mother Bobilin will spend five weeks pacity. If the houses were full,. Department of Biology, will be erty during World War II, might told her advanced seven year old this . summer studyin17 s P _a c e I there would be more than enough 1 helping to construct a course in be used for e ducat i 0 n a 1 ex- I son that ~e hurl better adopt two phys1cs at the Columb1a Ul!1ver- room for all students on campus. general biology at the American changes vocabulanes, so that he wouldn't sity summer institute .. He w1ll be However, the college cannot University of Beirut. He will ·· I lose contact with his friends. One one of fifteen engmeers and 1 force students to live in frater- also teach comparative anatomy. The Fulbright program is de- day he came home complaining thirty physicists from all. over nities if they do not wish to .do The University was founded in signed to abate the increasing· that he couldn't think of a syno- Kl • nnell to Read the country to take par~ Ill ~I:e so. For this reason, a fratermty the eighteen-sixties by a mission- outflow of dollars from the u .s.l nym for claustrophobia. p·ogram. The group. w1ll v~s1t house must be full before a fra- ary group, and is chartered by Instead of paying compensation I In concluding, Dr. Drews stat- various space installat10ns durmg I ternity man may live off campus. the New York State Board of Re- with foreign money, the partici-. ed that there are four character- poetry at Unl . on the summer including Cape Ken- Tl I b f ft•esh gents. pating countries have agreed to I istically different types of chil- d 1e arger num er o - Th · h' h h \ · · t · A · h t d d h · · ne y. , . . . , . h omin e area m w rc t e vmver- mam am merlCans w o s u y ren: t e studwus, the soc1al ~, An electrical engmeer, Bubthn: men thiS yea! and 1 ~ t. e c li sity is located holds a special abroad, and to finance travel for leader, the rebel and the creative D.1- Hobert Stolz .erg expressed gr~at interest in the 1 year haslt ~f~cted 1 ~stdeU~io~'s fascination for Dr. Clark. He is foreigners who wish to study in I intellectual. As their intelligence Galway Kinnell will read selec- aero-space field. He plans to 1 car.t_lpus. a once . eenm f 300 interested in both the ecology of America. I increases, so does their sensitiv- tions of his poetry to all intere~t- 11?-ake S?m~ vha~e. ?f this spe-1 ~~~d:n:~ ~~vetl~e m:~;:~g oclass. the Mediterranean coast, and in In this way, American dollars ity. As one app\o~ches adulth.o?d, ed studer;ts and faculty ThUl~- ~1alty his l~fe s \~OtL h 1 B t , the policy has been the physiology of desert animals. are not dissipated abroad and II he becom~s add1t10nally sens1t1ve clay April 23 at 8:00 P.M. m The reqmrements for the sc o- 1 u nov; 3 d Marine studies will amplify the 1 · · 1 d -{ 1 and emotiOnal. Hal~ House. Professor Weeks, arship had included three years changed to have b~tween 15 an general biology course which will t le countnes my~ ve stl . are --------- actin chairman of the English of college physics and three years ~25 students. matnculate ~t :Un- be modeled after the one at Un- able to pay t~eu ~e):lts. Sn~ul- Depaf.tment, said that Kinnell is of math. Despite his lack of these lOU. The t?cks -of adn:nssiOns ion taneously, a b~oad~t mtern~twn-\ f . h f' f' t , . e ts Dick was accepted I had somethmg to do w1th the Cl k G e F al understandmg 1s established, Letters one o t e our or . lVe mos lrequrr~m n •. · lar e freshman class of the pl>es- ar 0 8 ar and advanced study is carried on ' • • • promising young Amencan poets ~~ w1ll r~~.e1ve a full ~ch~l~h- 1 enl year. We admit twice as In a~dition to te~ching, Dr. without expense to the scholars.! today. ;:~~p ~nd 1 .ll\ mg expenses 01 e many as ·we can accommodate. Clark wtll al~o. trav~l m the Ne::r The act has been revised recent-! (Continued from Page 4) The purpose of the reading, fn e \\ ee ,s. hoping we may get close to the East. The ClVIhzabon formed m ly to include other countries in 1 f d .t Th . which is jointly spo1:sored by the 1 number of students we desire. this part of the world, which has 1 the exchange program : ans af twhp e 1 rst. at IS the pur- Department of Enghsh, The Na- S C I Th!'s year's application for a<;l.- served as a corridor connecting · 1 pose 0 • IS et er. \1 d h We w1sh to contact other tiona! Poetry Cou!lcl , an t .e • • • • • mission in 1964-65 has grea.tly ' Science Fiction Clubs and form a Academy of American Poets, IS I (Continued from Page 1) I incl·eased. In fact, as of March w R u c Holds Electt• on union among ourselves. We can to enable closer contact between I 2, 1964, 350 more students have the and his audience than prominently. About 750,000 sig- ap_plied than at the same date ~ pool our stories and readers ·' be possible in a large audi-~ natures from all over the Unit- ast year. With a bigger se_lec- By Mark Kasowitz . thereby increasing the size and torium. It is hoped that this will ed States are needed. tion we think we can adm1 t a quality of our magazine and the he the first of a series of such In direct concern to the stu- slightly higher en-rollmen,t with- Radio Union College, WRUC, will return to the air with a number of people enjoying it. We 1·ear\ings by young poets. dent body, it was announced that out in any way ~ffectmg .~he program, to meet the desires of a majority of Union College students feel that all member clubs will . the student tax will be raised $2 nuality of the class.\ beginning- next September during Orientation Week. Newly elected prioffit from sue~ ta untiodn. 1 Varied Background I next semester, f1;om $13-.$15 .. , president, Al Nahmias, said that with the installation of new cables, you are m eres e • P ease Kinnell has had a varied back- I This :n~asure was ne::es~it~ted by Won't Affect Shortage bringing the station into listening range of the entire school, WRUC d~~!:~t me at the following ad- ground in the academic field. He the r1smg costs of opetatto_n and The new fratetnit'§- ··dormitories will in a short .time return to its long respected place as the cam- '· fmtered Princeton in 1944, but by the ma~y added be~ef1ts _ ?f will not affect the housing short- pus outlet. for ente1:tainment and_ news. • . . I 1966 Islip Avenue eft to join the Na\Y· After six the tax. R1des home Wl~l a&'am age appreciably; aecoi'ding to Nahm1as explatped that several n:ushaps at the begmmng· of Central Islip months he returned and graduat- be abl~ to be secl;lred e~sl.er si~lce Pollock, because it w.ill be built the year cut many essential lines, o1l.e between West College and Long Island, New York ed in 1!)48. He later earned an the Ba1ley Hall b1llb.oard rs gomg to replace housing that is to be Richmond House and another between the Rathskeller and Memorial Respectfully, .A. at the \University of Roch- to be replaced. It w1ll. stand near torn down. There will be hous- ChapeL As a result most of the campus was cut off from the un- Gerald E. Robertson 1 ester. 1 the tennis courts, facmg the E_E ing for 45 non-fraternity students derground air-waves. \Since no one could hear the station, few Editor-in-Chief of Syfix He followed this by teaching at I building, and will be anchored 111 in the new project, but this will wanted to put- the time and effort into putting WRUC on the ai1•,\ Alfred University and the Uni-. cement. . only affect the shortage sHghtly. said Nahmias. However, with the plans for the installation of new Yersity of Chicago. In 1955 he The propose.<! by-laws. of the The fact is that by the time the lines and cables, replacing those which were broken, and those ,, awarded a Fulbright Fellow- student counc!l were d1scussed. project reaches completion in. 2 which would have broken in a few years anyway, WRUC will soon ship to translate the poetry of Mr. Berenson expresse~ some years and with Union's admit- be at least technically ready to return to student rooms all over the Villon, an Eighteenth Century ~o11:c~rn over the very hl&\h ma- ting 25 mo1·e students in those campus. Primaries Held French poet. After a year in JOrltles needed for. votes . 111 sev- years plus the present year, Starting within the next few weeks, WRUC will begin broad- 1, France in this program he ac- eral cases. These mcluded a ~ there will be 75 more students to casting to a limited audience, consisting almost entirely of Delta repted a position as lecturer at vote of total ~tudent .. c?uncrl accommodate on campus. So the Upsilon fraternity, about the only place on campus where the sta- Primaries were held last 1\'Ion- the University of G1·enoble. He me~?ers needed m overudtf!g a project will not alter residency tion can still be heard. The purpose of this seemingly purposeless day for all class officers. Two 1·esumerl his work on Villon in deciSIOn of the tax. comml~tee off campus appreciably. move will be to give inexperienced personnel a chance to gain some men were to be selected for the 1981 and his translation will be and a 4/5 vote requll'ed to lm- \o:n-the-air\ experience. This will pertain mostly to this year's positions of President, V-P, Sec- '1 published in the near futme by p~ach a member of the tax com- Freshmen, who had little opportunity to display their talents to the reta1·y, and Treasurer. the American Library. ; m1ttee. M~·· ,R;osenberg defended IF C listening audiences before the station went off the air in December. Lawrence Dittelman and Gary Research Associate these maJorttles as reasonably • • . .- As for broadcasting plans for the coming year, President Morris won the top spots for next i allowing for error in has~ly Nahmias foresees a return of the quiz program \Knowledge Bowl,\ year's senior class. For vice-pres- In 1957 he returned to the 1 formed, or unknowledgeable e- (Continued from Page 1) which proved quite popular upon its initiation last year. In charge of ident were Gary Brown and John \Cnited States to become a re- cisions. search associate and an instruc-1 1 Questionnaire Submi~ted . ward a Union College spirit \Knowledge Bowl\ will be Ronald Crowell, former Vice-president of Forsythe. Locke McKay and :Rolf tor in the Adult School at New A foreign student questwnnarre, would be channeled into huilrling the station. Also coming back will be the broadcasting of both Kasper gained positions in the M R' h d J home and away sports events. Nahmias feels that many students final election for Secretary, and II York University. He received an- submitted by r. lC ar an- a fraternity spirit. are at times unable to attend sports events in person, and they Trace Hartman for Treasurer. \ other Fulbright for teaching at ney, Foreign Student Sl;lb-Com- d h ld b 1' h the University of Tehran in , mittee Chairman, emphasized the Under the newly-planne sys- s ou not e pena 1zed by not knowing ow Union's athletic teams The sophomore class' choi\!eS 1960 . \fact that foreign stu~ents have tem, rushing will take place in are faring, beeause of unavoidable commitments. were Dave Kasper and Jack Sei- Since then he has been living Yery little contact v;rJth people the first two weeks of school. No On the news end, the United Press International Teletype will fert, Morgan Eames and Thomas '' •· in New York and Vermont. In outside the college, mdeed out- girls will be allowed in fraternity again supply a source of national and international news, which is Morgan, Robert Cuddeback and 1960. his first book of poetry was side their fraternity houses. The houses except for the date party. comparable to that of almost any other radio station. Frequent Thomas Spencer, and Robert De- published. Its title is What a African Students seemed to be No alcoholic beverages except editorials, interviews, and panel shows between students. faculty Miechele for President, Vice-presi- Kingdom Was. His second book, the most unhappy. They express- for wine, will be served in fra- and administration . will allow WRUC to fulfill its hoped-for role dent, Secretary and Treasurer, re- ·~ • Flower Herding 011 Mount Mona· ed dislike over their housing con- temity houses with the exception of the voice of Union College. Nahmias said he \would like to get spectively. d k · d H 1 h rl' . tl · · 1 t' · the col of stag and date parties. There the administration more involved, so that they would use WRUC Th F , h noc ' ts ue soon. e a so as ltlOns, len· 180 a IOn m - - will be a second rush period as as a vehicle between themselves and the student body\ e res man class also select- gi~ren lectures, received a fellow- lege community an~. the lack of f d N . , . ~ . . . • . . . · . . ed those to Ca:t'l'Y the fight to the slnp from the Guggenheim Foun-~ cultural opportumt1es offered ~fudd~·ntt~ill dbe e:~itiat:~s~~~i·l arl~ . The mus1c sched~le, ~nder the d1rectors~1P of Ch~rles Smclatr final election. For president wet·e .~ ,. dation, a_nd won an award from them. They ~uggested, as a ren;- interim grades are available. will try for a -more dn<-e'i'slfied fare. There wlll be a m1xture of the 1 . Marty Pinson and Lin Parker the Nat 10 nal Institute of Arts edy, the adm 1 ttance of more Afrt- \sounds the students w.~nt to hear\ du;ing reg':llar programming Don Abood and Robert Benjami~ and Letters. Not restricting him- ·can students and more students A pamphlet will be sent to all hours, and sev!'!ral spe~1al sho. ws featu~·mg who.Jly Ro.ck and Roll, won the vice-presidential primary self to the world of letters only, from fllr removed, non-western new students, describing fraterni- Jazz,. or Class1cai muSJ,c., Sev~ral spec1al talents ava1lable among and George Kates and Walter he took part in a voter registra- countries. They also expressed ties in general at Union College. the curent student body makes these \special\ shows possible. \ Pfeil that for treasurer. There · tion drive in Louisiana which was the opinion that each foreign stu- No summer contact between in- With the vice-pl'esidertcy of the station still open, the rest of I was no secretarial primary as run by the Congress of Racial dent should have a student ad- dividual fraternities and new the staff incll!!:J.es: l3_c11! Powner, Business Manager; Paul Siegel, 1 only Jack Stokvis and Gary Lev- Equality. visor. students will be permitted. - -Personnel; and Toby Olsen, Technical Director. ins filed for the position.

VISIT SOUTH Page 3 Concordy Sports :DICK GREGORY Page 2 Garnet Nine Win In Opener 4-3 . : Shields, Lustig Txr.•ll. - S d 0 ~ - ,.,:, Tie For Honors Time Out: Host ,.. t tams . qua n .1.. uesuay In Block-U Poll Sip, Cackle, and Pop By Riclty Resch Last Saturday on Alexan- der Field Rick Crookes led · Union's baseball team to its third consecutive opening day triumph. Crookes struck out eight Hobart batters in six outstanding innings as the Dutchmen scored a 4-3 victory over the Statesmen. Union Scores Eady Union broke the scoring ice in their half of the first inning wh'\'n _ lead-off batter Gary B1·own reach- · ed first base on an error by the Hobart center-fielder. Brown promptly advanced to second on a wild pitch. Sophomore third baseman Larry McDonald then · took advantage of the !litQation with a sharp single- to left-center scming Brown. As the sports scene adjusted it- self t() Spring, Union students by Dave Volkman · paid tribute to the college's win- ter athletes. In the most actiYe After a week at the Mets' training camp and three days of balloting of the year, the Block- presiding over the Olympic Basketball Trials it is nice t() be back U society -poll for Athlete-of-the- in the familiar, if somewhat bo1·ing; · Confines of home. But, alack . Month has ended in a tie. Paul (or alark dependiug upon what part of the campus you come from), · : Shields, 'Cnion's sophomore med- what is that I see in the distance, . an issue? Man the editorial guns, : le-y star and the much heralded cub reporters to your stations, there is something amiss about • Toby Lustig are the co-winners Spring Weekend. of the award. As everyone knows, the situation at present is that, to make Toby won his second victory of both Parent's Weekend and Spring Weekend fall on days when the · the year in the poll after an ex- athletic teams were either playing home or inactive, the adminis- : cel'lent season which saw him tration in collusion with the Athletic Department and the junior gain all-East and Little AU class moved Spring Weekend up to May 16. This means that many American ranking. The \G's\ Umon undergraduates wili be without their favorite belles and those center in Coach Evan's fast-break that can still manage to get dates will have to watch theh· step so attack also added a single-seasoo that the fair maiden can still be revived to type up term papers • scoring record of 500 points and on Sunday. a - career and season rebound rec- ord to his laurels. The Glovers- Obviously neither the floundering fathers nor the other powers ville's senior has been Mr. Bas- that be will allow this mistake to continue into future years. How- ketball nt L'nion all season and ever, some cynical fraternities are taking the attitude that, if the ('an be proud of the admiration school weekend does not please them, then they will run off into and respect that his colorful play the woods and have their own. This would not be so tragic if it. , .. . has earned him. His personality were not for the fact that this Spring Weekend the junior class had ·-. · as well as his skill on the court enough courage to tt·y something new. Their gamble was that if i , The Garnet continued its scor- ing ways in the se('ond inning as Gary Hurlbut singled to start a · rally. Catcher Randy Kuhl was ::Hn-~ ~ ~ ~' '#J~; t :~ hit by a pitch and Gary Brown walked to fill the bases. McDon- ald hit a ground ball to short which forced Brown at second while Hurlbut and Kuhl scored. · will leave a large gap at 'Cnion wey could get good talent and tne 1<·1el<1 house for their conce1·t after he leaves. they could have an excellent weekend. Their gamble looks now as Crookes Shines Crookes complemented this of- fensive support by displaying speed and sharp control from the mound. Hobart was able to score only once against him, when- in the fifth inning they put together two of the three hits they were to register in the game. Crookes' most outstanding inning was his last, the sixth. He struck out the first two Statesmen on six pitches and after the next batter reached base on an error he fanned an- other to retire the side. Frank D' Allaird continued the pitching cho1·es in the seventh in- ning. He exhibited an- overp?\\-:· ering fastball, but control dlffl- culties caused Garnet specta- tors and Coach Art Lawrence a few anxious moments. D' Allaird walked three batters in his first inning, but left unscathed. In the eighth the results were different. After hitting the first batter and walking the second, D' Allair.d r~g­ istered the first out of the mnmg with a strike out. He continued alternately firing and misfiring by walking the next hitter and strik- ing out the one after that. A bases loaded error on a ground ball allowed two Statesmen to cross the plate, bringing Hobart to within one run of tying the score. D'Allaird seemed to settle down from this point on and the totals remained Union 4, Hobart 3. Double Play The game ended on a high note for Union as quick thinking in- fielders Gary Bro>vn and Rick Crookes, who moved over to play first in the seventh inning, team- ed up to execute a neat double play. With a runner on first base Brown snared a line drive to deep short and fired to Ctookes at first to double up the baserunner who had wandered a little too far to- ward second. With Wednesday'§ garpe against Pratt Institute at Brooklyn post- poned because of wet grounds t~e Lav.rrencemen were able to get m an extra day's practice before making the trip to New York on Thursday. The Garnet beat Pratt 13 to 5 last year. This afternoon the Union bats- men faced a strong University of Rochester squad that bettered them last year 9-5. Today's game was the 89th . in a series that sta1ted in 1896. Union has one 45 and lost 43. Williams Here Tuesday Next Tuesday Union will host ' Williams College in what will probably be their most difficult game this spring. In the series, begun in 1881, Williams has a 37- 14 edge. Uruion's ace hurler Rick Ci·ookes will more than likely be given the starting assignment. · · · ;::-:_:·;,.:E Coach Beaudry·s hard working if it will fail, and it would ,conceivably be ditficult to extract the swimming star Paul Shields earn- necessary funds from the student tax committee the next time :,l ed the honor of Athlete-of-the- someone wants to try to get a good weekend. Gary Brown being brushed back by Hobart hurler. Hurlburt beating out hit to start off 2nd inning rally. Team Schedules Baseball: • :•April 11 - Hobart April 15 - Pratt *April 17 - U. of R. *April 21 - Williams April 22 - RPI April 25 - Hamilton April 28 - Norwich April 29 - Middlebury ·~May 1 - RPI May 5 - Clarkson May 8- Drew May 9 - Stevens •:•May 13 - Hamilton May 15 - U. of R. Track: *April 18 - Hamilton April 21 - Trinity April 25 - U. of Ro('hester *April 29 -Vermont May 6 - Middlebury Lacrosse: April 15 - Trinity April 18 - Wesleyan I B S *April 22 - Stevens Basebal ox core ~'April 25 - Hamilton AB H R April 29 - Hobart Brown, SS ... . . 3 0 1 •:•May 2 - Cortland McDonald, :m ......... ..4 2 1 ':'May 6 - Middlebury Crookes, P- lB .. -~ 0 0 May 9 - St. Lawrence Marshall, 1B- LF .. .4 0 0 '-'May 16 - Rensselaer Erdoes, LF- RF . ... 3 1 0 *Home Game. Kasper, CF ......... . .. .. 3 1 0 Hubler, RF ................ 3 0 0 Hurlburt, 2B ............ ..4 1 1 Kuhl, C ...................... 2 0 1 *D'Allaird, P ..... .. . . . . 1 0 0 ''Relieved Crookes in 7th, Replac- :. ed Hubler in lineup. Hobart L'nion R H E · 000 010 020 3 3 6 120 010 00 4 5 3 ~- _ __ q__:'fH_liii_?_Q _ _ &]£?_$2_ - . FRANK FERRARO Wholesale and Retail fruits and Produce - Fresh Daily - Twice Daily on Campus 1231 CRANE STREET Schenectady, N.Y. 01 6-1763 tJI!lii'LP SRI. «uts ••, a a tii'YA KNAPP SERVICE LTD. 1000 State St. 016-5900 YOLKSWAG . EN & IMPORT • PARTS & SERVICE REPAIRS Experience and Ability Wally's Diner • Home Made Pies Good Coffee · • 325 Erie Blvd. · Open Daily 5 A.M. 7 P.M. RESTAURANT EQUIPMENf DRUG SUNDIIEI FOUNTAIN $UPPLIES HOTION$ a.d. SUP;LIES . HOY.ELTIES POLYETHEI.ENE It E N T· A L · 5 1 . CELLOPHANE GLAS$WAH DISHU · · SILYEIWAaE J. NOGEE & SONS, Inc. Successar to S. MOIIIS & SON Eslabllahed · . 1111 · · WHOLESALE DISTIIIUTORS PAPEI-PAPEI lAGS STATIONERY- SCHOOL SUPP.LIES Phane Fit ~4429 · - 21-34 N; •roadway Schenectally · 5, N. Y. Month after leading Union's team to a fine 8-2 season. The State championship time of 2:13.7 which Paul turned in at Buffalo is the college record. Despite his sueeess in the relays throughout the season and his excellent showing at the Eastern Cham- pionships at Dartmouth, Paul re- mains <>ne of the most modest athletes at the college. Only his constantly faster times and the glowing testimony of his coach Dutchman's Doings Time Out congratulates Larry McCray, the newly elected cap- i ' tain of the baseball team. McCray is a senior who plays soccer in the Fall, manages basketball in the Winter, and hits close to .300 for the diamond-men in the Spring. Somehow he has also managed j to get elected to Tau Beta Pi along the way. ~ -, Condolences to Rolf Kasper whose wrist injury, acquired dur- ing batting practice, will keep him out of the baseball lineup this Spring. Kasper also got injured during the soccer season. ! · and teammates serve to indicate I the Forest Hills resident's worth. . Bill Broderick, Coach Allison's I inspirational wrestling captain, !>laced a strong third in the 700 , baEot election. Wti! ~u·e !Houd to report that all three of our Spring teams sur- vived their opening day trials. The baseball team won, the lacrosse team was rained out and the tPnnis team could not play because of wet courts. Stick to it boys, . our 1098-754 record is at stake. 1 I ! I Freshmen Tennis With a. strong nucleus upon which to build, this year's fresh- man tennis squad will possibly A final word of thanks must go to the Interfraternity Council, ~ ­ who this week voted to institute immediate rush next year. AI- , though this might diminish the population of freshman teams, it will prove something that some people on this campus have been ! · yelling about for years. The college will survive this, give or take a few freshmen classes. I add some depth to next year's varsity. Chris Komissarjevsky is pres- ently the best prospect. With a c o n s i s t en t game, backed by TiDit; Center JEwele .. ~ strong ground strokes and a good backhand, he is presently rated numbe1• one. Behind him are San- dy Levine, Aar{)n Rutherford, and Bill Danchuck. Levine is a predominantly de- fensive player while Rutherford is more aggressive and olfensive. Danchuck is the most powm·ful frosh on the squad. ' Mother Ferro's 11 BUY WITH CONFIDENCE\ Restaurant Specializing in Italian - American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6--9554 1115 Barrett St. ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Dave's :$quire ~hop Just Received Our • • • H .. I. S. - SEERSUCKER - and GENUINE INDIAN MADRAS BERMUDAS at $4.95 and $6.95 Brass Buckled Saddle Leather Belts ' $2.50 - $4.00 828 STilE - ST Dallr te Jail • Tuet. & Thur. 'tli t Because BIG's \Dyamite\ Ball Point is the hardest metal made by man, BIC is the world's fin- est writing instrument-yet it costs only 19¢! Only BIC is guaranteed*to write first time every time. Get a BIC, now at your campus store. BIC \Crys- tal\ 19¢-other models and point styles to 49¢. All BIC pens available with blue, red, green, black ink. Made in U.S.A. *For replacement send pen to: WATERMAN·BIC PEN CORP. MILFORD, CONN. '9:{Bi(t} Results recently released from H 5 year transfer study ( 1959-63) at Pine Manor Junior College re- veal the highest published trans· fer rate of any junior college of its type in the nation. Compiled by Natalie P. Jansen, director of counselling, the stQdy shows that 98% of the class of 1963 is cur- rently engaged in further study, I with 82% continuing in work to- ward degrees. ~----------~------------ ......................... __.. 1 ................. ~~~ .·.'.':~~~~ .~:'~ ~.: .. :.: .... .l .



May, . 196 4 THE STAFF Editor-in-chief Larry Horowitz Sup'p lement Editor Lewis Henkind Co11e1' Design Mr. Joel Altshuler Cont?·ibuting Artist Richard Wendover C ontributo t· s Professor Patrick Kilburn Professor William Murphy Professor William Olden brook Mr. Sam Morell Lawrence Bal'dassaro Robert P. Hoffman Consultants Prof. John M. Bradbury Prof. Frank Gado Paul S. Livingston This supplement is published by the Student :B<>dy of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. National Ad- vertising Representative: National Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave, N. 'Y. C. Editorial Office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, Schenectady Printing Company, 502 Broadway. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Union and the Arts There has been much talk in recent weeks about the sta.te of the arts at Union College. All College Council meet- ings . have been devoted to this topic and the picture that has corne out of these sessions is indeed a gloomy one. That this vva.s not always so can be seen by reading Mr. Baldassaro's article which appears in this supplement. The art exhibits in Old Chapel have been of a low cali- ber, events s1,1ch as poetry readings have been few and far between (and ha.ve drawn only a handful of students), and the · music groups on campus are struggling for survival. What is lacking is a guiding hand-someone who wo'Qld devote his time towards focusing campus attention on the arts and convince the administration that the arts should be given a bigger place on the Union campus than they presently have. A big step in this direction would be the successful com- pletion of the lagging plans for the scholar-in-residence pro- gram. This would help immensely. If the right kind of :pe:rson is brought to the campus, his enthusiasm would serve to focus attention en the arts. That there are such people available-people who are interested in working in the col- lege element-is a known fact. We have been fortunate, for example, in attaining the services of Mr. Joel Altshuler, a distinguished compiercial · artist, for the cover of this supplement . His enthusiasm for his work is something to behold and his personality is such th.at he would fit in perfectly on a college campus. We were a bit disappointed that neither the Mounte- banks nor the Idol was planning to make note of the 400th anniversary of the birth of Shakespeare. As a result this su.pplement was planned and the response to the pleas for contributions has shown that there is a core of people on this campus that are interested in endeavors of this kind. These are the people that must be instrumental in any campus \artistic revolution . , Our thanks go to Lewis Henkind without whose tireless efforts this supplement could not have been compiled. He did all the necessary leg work and also contributed an article. We would also like to thank Professors Patrick Kilburn, William Murphy and William Oldenbrook for . their contribu- tions. We are also grateful to Mr. Sam Morell for submit- ting an article to us. The students whose works appear in the following pages, in addition to Mr. Henkind, are Robert P. Hoffman and. Lawrence Baldassaro. They too have our thanks. Richard Wendover did the illustrations that appear in the text. We are also indebted to Professors John Bradbury and Frank Gado who helped to plan the supplement. Larry Horowitz April 28, 1964 •• . <\ - • • . 4 \ . , I • · ' · i ( f .• . r J

•· . (\) I •• 4 ~ ,· ; ' . r • · ' ' j ( I . • . f . f The First of the · B - ardic Frauds By WILLIAM MURPHY By 1790 William Shakespeare had climbed a long way toward that summit of semi-div- inity which he was ultimately to surmount. Like all great writers, Shakespeare, after his death, went into temporary eclipse. But the peculiar circumstances of English history prevent a fair evaluation of the tastes of his counh·ymen: for not long after his death the Puritans captured control of the government, and playwrights were consigned to the outer darkness. By the time dramatic produc- tions were allowed again, new talents had appeared, and . Shakespeare was looked upon as an ancient. When his plays were produced, they were carefully rewritten to be purged of the gross excrescences of Elizabethanism and converted to the elegant abstrac- tionisms of the Augustan Age. But the more people read Shakespeare in the original the more they realized that his words were not meant to die, that his green and growing lan- guage and the freshness of his thought would outlive those who tried to improve him. To new generations of Englishmen he, who had once seemed provincial and archaic, revealed himself more and more to be uni- versal and timeless. Yet somehow the more one knew about the poetry the less one seemed to know about the man who wrote it. As he continued to speak significantly to succeeding generations, men be- gan to wonder more and more about the inscrutable Englishman who said so much so well. Admiration slowly grew to idolatry - David Garrick's dedicated productions of the plays helped to bring to the man from Stratford some of his own fame and glory - and from idolatry came archaeology, a determined search for every scrap of paper, every artifact that might have some association with the immortal bard. But by 1750 almost as much was learned as we know today, and that much was, relatively speaking, very little. Of course there was the record of baptism and burial in the Church of the Holy Trinity at Stratford- on-Avon; there was the marriage to Anne Hathaway and, six month later, the baby; there were the Folios, the will, a few obscure legal documents. But through these one could catch little glimpse of the living per- sonality of the most fascinating of all Englishmen . The world hungered for more information, as it hun- gers still. And in those days, at the dawning of what appears now to be an endless epoch of Shakespea1·ean research, it was only natural to feel that sooner or later the break would come, that documents of all kinds would suddenly appeal' from their obscure hid- ing-places to i-lluminate the heart and mind of the greatest writer of a:ll time. And so it was no surprise to the world in gene1·al when, in the faH of 1794, Samuel Ireland, an engraver and collector of Norfolk Street, London, cautiously announced to his friends that he thought a document in his possession was a hitherto unknown lease in- volving, on the one hand, William Shakespeare and his old theatrical associate j - ohn Heminge, and, on the other, one Michael Fraser and Elizabeth his wife. It was executed on paper of the Elizabethan period, and to it was affixed an ancient seal. The owner of it was a Shakespearean idolater. Interested far more in association with antiquities than in money itself, with which he was amply supplied, Samuel Ireland had once made a journey to Stratford-on-A von to search for any articles at all - books, manuscripts, knives, forks, pillow-slips - that had once been touched by the divine poet. But all he could find was a bugle- purse, \said to have been a present from our g:reat poet\ to Anne Hathaway, and this he bought at Anne's cottage in Shottery. Now, ~f course, the dis- covery of a new deed bearing the poet's signature was enough to make him die happy - and so he would have died had he chosen to go at once. His mistake lay in continuing to live. Samuel Ireland's friends, respectable English scholars, examined his new manuscript with the ut- most care; all pronounced it authentic: for the paper was indeed Elizabethan paper, the seal was an Eliza- bethan seal, the ink was fadEd brown, and the signa- ture was unmistakably that of Shakespeare. Here was one of the greatest discoveries of the ages. Sam- uel Ireland was in his glory. 3

But the real hero was SamuePs son, William Henry, a lawyer's apprentice, Some weeks befo1·e, William told his father, he had met in a coffee house an eldedy gentleman of su'bstance, and, in the course of their conve:~:sation, had indicated his own interest in Elizabethan manuscripts. The elderly gentleman remarked that he had at his home whole bunches of old legal documents and other papers that he had in- herited from his ancestors, and that, as he had him- self no interest in things antiquarian, young Ireland might feel free to take anything he pleased. In this way he had come into possession of the Shakespeare- Fraser lease. The document created quite a stir, and everyone wanted to know who the elderly gentleman was. Young Ireland regretted that he was unable to di- vulge that information, having been specifically · for- bidden to do so; for the old fellow was somewhat eccentric, and he feared that people would bother him too much if they knew of his treasure. A short time later young Ireland presented to his father another, even more remarkable document: a confession of faith, written and signed by the poet himself and proving conclusively that he was a Prot- estant. As with the Fraser lease, Mr. Ireland's friends were beside themselves with joy. The document was inspected closely and all agreed that it was authen- tic; for now there was not only the Elizabethan paper, browned with age, and the faded brown ink, and the undoubtedly authentic handwriting; there was also the magnificent style of the poet himself, who, in a central passage, wrote: \0 man, what art thou? why considerest thyself thus greatly? where are thy p·eat, thy boasted attributes? Buried, lost forever in cold death. 0 man, why attemptest thou to search the greatness of the almighty? thou dost but lose thy labour. l The] more thou . attemptest [the] mo1·e art thou lost, till thy poor weak thoughts are elevated to their summit and then, as snow from the leafy tree, drop and distill themselves till they are no more ... \ On reading this noble effusion, Dr. Samuel Parr, the great classical scholar and theologian - one of whose sermons, printed, contained fifty-one pages of text and two hundred and twelve of notes - ex- claimed: \Sir we have very fine passages in our church services, and our litany abounds with beauties; but here, Sir, here is a man who has distanced us all!\ The elderly eccentric now began to dispose of his treasures with increasing rapidity. Young Ireland brought home for his father's perusal a letter from Queen Elizabeth to Shakespeare, another from Shake- speare to Southampton, a love poem to \Anne Hath- errewaye\ from her \Sweet Willy,\ and a lock of Willy's hair as well. The gentlemen and scholars who frequented Mt·. Samuel Ireland's house were allowed to take a strand from the lock of hair to encase in a special ring, made foi· those who shared in the great discovery. Thet·e was no longer any doubt among the 4 hungry lovers o£ Shakespeare that the secrets of that silent heart would now finally be unlocked, depending only on the speed with which young Ireland could examine the old gentleman's papers. Y0vff1~. 7 SIGNATURES OF SHAKESPEARE I. From a deed in the British Museum. 2. From a mortgage in the Guildhall~ 3. From the will. 4. From a deposition in the office of the Public Records. 5. : From a volume of Montaigne's Essays in the British Museum. 6. From an acknowledged forgery of Ireland, 7 and 8. The two last signatures from the will which we: believe to have been written with a guided hand. One document caused some little trouble, however. Ireland gave to his father a receipt for five pounds and five shillings signed by John Heminge, one of the two editors of the First Folio. But on arriving home the following afternoon, William Henry found his father talking to a Mr. Albany Wallis, a friend, who had with him another document which contained a cerified signatme of Heminge's. It and the signa- ture on young Ireland's receipt were utterly unlike. The elder Mr. Ireland was sorely troubled, and the son appeared nervous. Promising to speak to the elderly eccentric, William Henry left the house and returned soon with another document listing theatri- cal receipts and disbursements, and signed with Hem- inge's authentic signature. What the old man had told the confused William Henry, with a smile, was that there were two John Heminges associated with the theater, one with the Globe and one with the Curtain, and that they were distinguished by being called the tall John Heminge and the shm·t John Heminge. Fortunately he also possessed a signature of the tall John, which William Henry now displayed. This immediately dispelled any suspicion or doubt by Mr. Samuel Ireland and his friend; for had not young 1\ . • . , , . ' t [ ) ' \ , · i ) \ } q ... . \ • f II

' ,. ' t { ) i '~ · i ) Jl } q ... . \ • . . f •• -- - · I1•eland walked the long distance to the elderly gen- tl~an's ho~e and returned with an authentic docu- ment, aid and proper, with the real signature? And had he not done this in less than one hour? The news of the discoveries had by this time spread over all England. ·Edmund Malone, the great EHzabethan scholar, diligently pored over the manu- scripts or copies of them so that he could prepare a ciitical essay on their importance. George Steevens, another scholar, examined them too. Joseph Ritson, the sharpest editor of his day, questioned William Henry closely, and the young man felt uneasy in his p1·esence. All three were skeptical and suspicious. But; for the time being, they kept their opinions to themselves. Ritson didn't like Malone, Malone didn't like Steevens, and Steevens didn't like anybody. They hated to admit that they agreed with one another, as in this case they did. Others meanwhile flocked ta Mr. Ireland's cham- hers to inspect the papers personally. One ef those was James Boswell, cetebrated fo·r a century and a half as a biographer and recently revealed as an ac- complished Priapean as well. After being satisfied of their authenticity, he proceeded to consider the literary style. \At length,\ young Ireland tells us, \:finding himself rather thirsty, he requested a tum- bler of warm brandy and water; which, having nearly finished, he then redoubled his praises of the manu- scripts; and at length, arising from his chair, he made use of the following expression: 'Well; I shall now die contented, since I have lived to witness the pres- ent day.' Mr. Boswell then, kneeling down before the volume containing a portion of the papers, continued, 'I now kiss the invaluable relics of our bard: and thanks to God that I have lived to see them!'\ Then, apparently before the brandy had worn off, he departed. Meanwhile, the great Mr. Malone, locked in his study, grew increasingly skeptical of the documents. The paper itself was indisputably Elizabethan, the handwriting apparently genuine; but the spelling was such as neither he nor any other student of the long history of the English language had ever seen: \never\ was spelled \neven·e \but\ \butte \un- touched\ \unnetouchedde.\ Eal'lier in life Malone had employed his literary astuteness to help expose the frauds of Thomas Chatterton, who had pretended to discover the poems of a fifteenth-century monk named Thomas Rowley but who wrote them himself, and one of the most convincing arguments in that case had also been orthographical. Now another such case was before him. After careful consideration Malone pronounced the documents forgeries and allowed his opinion to be spread abroad. Samuel Ireland was wounded sore. In February, 1795, he gathered in his house twenty of the most eminent scholars in England and asked them to sign a statement of faith in the authenticity of the docu- ments. This they readily did. The country split into warring camps; and the intensity of the disagreement deepened as further and more significant discoveries were produced by that affable famiUar ghost who nightly gulled William Henry Ireland with intelli- gence but would speak to no one · else. First came a complete copy in Shakespeare's hand of l{ing Lear, matching almost precisely the readings of the 1608 Quarto, but with interesting variations~ Where in the quarto the following lines are attributed to Kent: I have a journey, sir, shortly to go: M'y master calls, and I must not say no, the manuscript reads: Thanks, sir, but I go to that unknown laud That chains each pilgrim fast within its soil; By living men most shunned, most dreaded. Still my good master this same journey took: He calls me; I am content, and straight obey: Then farewell, world! the busy scene is done: Kent lived most true, Kent dies most like a man. Although Malone was unaware of it, Samuel Ireland just happened to possess a copy of the 1608 Quarto. But rnore important still was young Ireland's dis- covery of a new play, entitled Vortigern and Rowena. The announcement created a sensation. Instantly Mr. Harris of Covent Garden and Mr. Sheridan of Drury Lane offered to produce it. Samuel Ireland chose D1·ury Lane, with which he had connections. Unfor- tunately Malone had connections there too, and under his coaching the actors learned their parts well. Just before opening night Malone published his book, An Inquiry Into The Authenticity of Certain Documents Attributed to Shakespeare, in which he showed with devastating logic and erudition the antecedent im- probability of the authenticity of the documents. Even Ritson c11ept out of his silence and admitted that Malone's arguments were \decisive.\ Samuel Ireland was compelled to print handbills protesting what he called a \malevolent and impotent attack,\ and, since there was no time for it to be answered, requested that the play be heard \with that Candour that has ever distinguished a British Audience.\ And so the day of the opening came. It had orig- inally been scheduled for Friday, April the First, 1796; but William Henry, hearing ominous reports of treachery among the players, asked that it be moved to the Second so that certain obvious remarks might be avoided. The theater was packed; gross receipts for the night were 555 pounds. Everybody who mattered was there; and apparently everybody who mattered had been tipped off by Malone's operatives. For, as young Ireland mournfully noted, the audience seemed dis- posed to laugh even before the curtain rose, and when the actors began hamming up the lines the crowd could hardly be restrained. When finally John Kemble,- the star, came to the line, \And when this solemn mockery is o'er,\ he paused for effect and looked significantly about the theater: Then, to quote from William Henry Ireland, \the most disco1·dant howl echoed from the pit that ever assailed the or- gans of hearing. After the lapse of ten minutes, the . 5

clamo1• subsided; when Mr. Kemble, having again obtained a hearing, instead of proceeding with the speech at the ensuing line, very politely, and in orde1· to amuse the audience still mm'e, redelivered the very line above quoted with- even more solemn grimace than he had in the first instance displayed.\ ' The result was disastrous. William Henry not long after quitted his father•s house never to return. He sent word back that all the documents were for- geries, and that he alone was the grand architect and builder. Except for one painful meeting, he never saw his father again. Thus was revealed at last the secret to the most successful hoax perpetrated on lovers of Shakespeare up to that time. * * * * Who was the . great forger named William Henry Ireland, and why did he do what he did? The ques- tion may be answered partly by noting that when Vortigern was produced at one o:f the two great theaters in London, the author was barely nineteen years old; he had been engaged on his forgeries since the age of seventeen. The . question is fully answered by noting further that William Henry Ireland was an unloved child desperately trying to please his father. The Ireland forgeries fall as much under the l'Ubric of psychology as under liter.ary history. William Henry Il·eland was born in 1777., and Samuel Ireland was his father. But his mothe1· was apparently a Mrs. Freeman, the housekeeper, and the father always felt slightly annoyed at the boy for coming along when he wasn't wanted. He tried to minimize his existence by sending him away to school, but the headmaster returned the boy home after a term with a note to the father that, as the boy tells us in his Confessions, \I was so stupid as to be a disgrace to the school, and . . . as he :found it impos- sible to give me the least instruction, he would much rather I should not retum after the holidays, . a.s he ... conceived it was no better than robbing Mr. Ire- land of his money.\ Samuel Ireland apparently shared the schoolmaster's opinion, :for, contemptuous and disdainful, he sent the boy off to France at the age of thirteen. At seventeen he was brought back to London and apprenticed to a lawyer. But young William Henry had no taste for the law. He used to · listen silently while his father spoke of the great Shakespeare to the distinguished friends who visited his home in Norfolk Street. He saw his father's eyes light up with pleasure whenever he dren an Elizabethan quarto from tlte shelves or fon- dled any document even remotely associated with the Bard of Stratford. At one time he accompanied his father to Stratford and saw the look of horror on his face as he heard the owner of the Clopton House tell him of the destruction, only a few days earlier, of a whole batch of papers bearing Shakespeare's name. 6 But all this time the elder Ireland treated his son as a backward child; and when William presented his first forgery, the Fraser lease, he never ques- tioned his son's story about the elderly eccentric. All he knew was that if the document was a forgery, as it might well have been, it hadn't been done by Wil- liam, who was too stupid to do anything useful. But at least the boy deserved to be rewarded. And so, for the Fraser deed, Samuel gave his soil a book from his own private book-case. Excited . by the possibility of pleasing his father mere, the boy went on to further fabrications; and so eager was the old man to believe the . impostures were real t:Qat he ac- cepted everything his son told him, no matter how preposterous and absurd. Samuel Ireland should have seen the light when his son came home with the story that he had discovered a deed in which Shakespeare had tumed over all his manuscripts to an ancestor of theirs named William-Henry Ireland, a contempor- ary Elizabethan, as a reward for rescuing him from drowning. Thus the manuscripts legally belonged to the Ireland family and not to the rich old gentleman at all. This the father swallowed, as he swallowed everything else, right down to the luckless Vortigern. But in castigating the gullibility of the old man, we must not overlook a few significant qualities in the despised son. First, he was really a magnificent forger. He . had a photographic memory for linear detail that enabled him to perform almost unbeliev- able feats. When, for example, he discovered his error in the John Hemings deed, he was able, merely by glancing at the real signature, to leave the house and return within an hour with another deed, properly executed on Elizabethan paper (which he obtained by cutting out the fly-leaves of Elizabethan books) in proper ink, and with the authentic signature accur- ately reproduced. His genius, in short, may have been immoral and illegal, but genius it certainly was. And if William Henry believed his own poetry was as good as Shakespeare's, as for a time he did, at least part of the blame must be laid on the should- ers of those who praised it excessively merely be- cause it bore Shakespeare's name. William Henry was young, he wanted desperately to please, and he had no more inflated an opinion of his poetic talents than most men do of their merit in their chosen pro- fessions. The insufficiency of his poetry, which even- tually brought about his undoing, proved that he was after all only an excellent copier of surfaces. But we must not forget that he filled Drury Lane with a play written when he was eighteen, and that the audi- ence listened enraptured to his words for a long time and only broke into laughter at last after skillful coaching by cynical actors. Vortigern may not be Hamlet; but neither was its author a Julia Moore. For his own fame, of course, it would have · been better had William Henry stopped when he w.as ahead. Gifford has written of him: \Had this youth 1) .. u ' •. , ' 1\ •. • i . ) 1. :.}1 '\ . . 1) ~-~ . , '411 • . . l Q l i · •

IJ .. u ' • ., • '\ . . 1) ~ . , . 41 . . l t1 l i · • ~I [ ~r_ possessed · hl!lt n single grain of tH·udenC'e, and knowu when and where to stop, his fol'geries might, at this moment, be visited by anniversary ct·uwds of devoted pilgrims, in some splendid E?hrine set apart, in his father's house, for that pious purpose.\ As it was, he knew only obloquy and shame; for though he him- self begged that he should be considered \an unthink- ing and impetuous boy (rather) than ... a sordid and avaricious fabricator instigated by the mean de- sire of securing pecuniary emolument,\ tlw world .re- fused to listen to him; and he spent the t'l•st of his ]ife . in mean and dPbasing · literary employments, de- spised by his countrymPn, JH'Vl'l' able to live down thr! shame of his early sin. Viewed from the distance of 160 years, the for- geries ap:pear to be almost inevitable. They v\'ould never have been produced if Shakespeare had not been both a !!,Teat writer and an obscure personality. As insGl'utable behind his works as the Creator of the universe behind His, . Shakespear.e the God was bound to find his theologians, and WiUiam Henry Ireland was merely the first of them. Delia Bacon, J. Payne Collier, and Charlton Ogburn were to follow. As long as Shakespeare, Hke God, insists on remaining silent about his attributes, his disciples will have either to forge them or invent them . l\It. Coburn as Sir Toby Belch But at least on some people William Hemy's ef- forts were not lost. One of his eal'ly supporters, George Chalmers, wrote after the hoax was exposed a pamphlet entitled An AI>Ology for the Believers in the Shakspearian Papers, in which he attempted to demonstrate that even if they were forgeries they needn't have been. And old Samuel Ireland, the pere malgre lui, what of him? So deep was his love of Shakespearean relics and so abiding his contempt for his son that he never lost either. He refused to believe William's wild stories about the forgeries, maintaining flatly that he didn't have the ability to produce them, and he was angered by his son's Confessions, which cast a doubt on the authenticity of the manuscripts in which he devoutly believed. We have the word of the attending physician at his deathbed that he went to his Maker still believing in the genuineness of the manuscripts, and still despising his son. Which was surely ingratitude. For Samuel gave his son a life that lasted only 58 years, while William Henry brought his father a notoriety that will last forever. 7

Out, Out ' • • • • By DEXTER MARTIN Repri · nted by courtesy of Saturday Review CITIZENS' STATE UNIVERSITY April 13, 1964 F1·om: Earl Prince King Dean of the Faculty To: Mr. William Shakespeare English Department He: Termination of Employment Dear Professor Shakespeare: You are hereby relieved of youi.· duties at Citi- zens' State University and are placed on sick leave for the remainder of the semester, at which time your contract will be terminated. Due to an unex- ·pected vacancy last summer, my pr~decessor ha~ to hire you more hastily than usual, without a detailed examination of your qualifications. (You will recaU that you did not furnish references.) However, alert Christian students have called my attention to your writings (the few that have been published); and from an alumnus in London I have secured a report about your unpublished plays, the ones in the reper- tory of the Globe Theater there. In addition, various facts about your career have finally reached us here in the United States. Some of them have even be- come known around the campus. I am afraid that I will have to dispense with politeness and speak bluntly. To begin with, you are on record as having spelled your family name in at least thirteen different ways, which suggests that you are an imposter: and it has eYen been charged that you are not William Shake- speare at all but one Francis Ba~on, a c~n:ictc:d bribe-taker. When you were only nmeteen, 'hvmg- m Stratford, England, you produced pregnancy in a girl and had to marry her so hastily that you needPd special permission from the Bishop. About two ye~rs later after two more children, you left your fam1ly behi~d in Stratford and commenced residence in Lon- don not rejoining them for about twenty-five years. Acc'ording to your own sonnets, you have committed adultery or have tried to commit it with a certain \dark lady.\ Other love affairs of yours have become common gossip. For instance, a friend of yours, Richard Burbage, says that you cheated him (ns well as your wife) by visiting a woman with whom he had made an appointment. When he knocked at the door you opened it and said, \Remember: Wil- liam the' Conqueror comes before Richard the Lion- Hearted.\ (For your information, I see nothing hu- morous about the incident.) As for your writings, they reek (and I use the word advisedly) of sex and violence. In the opinion of the University's lawyers, your very first work, Venus and Adonis, is obscene and ought to have been banned. Your sonnets have aroused the suspicion, not only in me but in the University's psychiatrist, Dr. Sum- merfield that you may be a pervert or that you have been on~. About half of them are declarations of love to a young man. 8 The characters in your plays kill, duel, make war, steal, go to prostitutes, daprive girls of their virgin- ity, swear, drink, doubt the existence of God and God's Plan. In Henry IV, you think it is · very funny to de~ict a Crown Prince stealing purses. In Romeo and J.uhet, you think it is ex;tremely funny to portray young men who brawl in the streets and rob girls of their virtue without marrying them. In Hamlet, you ask us to feel sorry for a young man because he does not behave like a delinquent; you consider him a coward because he refused to kill his stepfather. Your Anthony and Cleopatra a~e simply juvenile delin- quents upon a global scale, obsessed with sex and not even married. At least four of your plays (if they are published) ·would prove offensive to minority groups at an_y American university. In Othello, you try to romanti- cize marriage between Negroes and whites. Not only would many whites object; many Negroes would, too. In Romeo and Juliet, everybody is a Catholic and yet everybody thinks the suicide is beautiful. Not even the Catholic priest says the lovers have gone to hell. (I might as well say flatly, Professor Shakespeare, that I find all of your plays unbeliev- able.) In The Merchant of Venice you portray a Jew who demands a pound of Gentile flesh. As for religion, not one of your plays glorifies it -at least not clearly and unambiguously. One mo- ment you are saying, \There's a divinity that shapes our ends\· and the next moment you are wondermg whether u'fe signifies nothing. Are you an agnostic? Are you an atheist? If you are a Christian, why don't you come right out and tell us so? In regard to your teaching, I will only say that to the best of my knowledge, I find it very hard to believe that your four sections of freshmen are learn- ing to · write plain, simple English from you. Frank- ly, in both your poetry and prose you sound as though you were intoxicated. Your style totters on the edge of absurdity or even insanity. You are wordy, crude obscure and addicted to far fetched figures of sp~ech. As the former Director of the Universit~'s Testing Service, I can state with some authonty that on nearly every page you exhibit emotional in- stability and immaturity. Although Citizens' State believes in academic free- dom, it does not believe in academic license. Conse- quently, I cannot provide you with a lette7 of recom- mendation, and no member of the Enghsh depart- ment will be permitted to give you one. Sincerely yours, Earl Prince King, Ph.D. Distinguished Service Professor and Dean of the Faculty. P.S. I regret having to send this dismissal notice just before your birthday, but a deep concern for the welfat·e of your students compels me to act without further delay. 1) ' \ , , •\I ; .. '· ,, • 1} ~ · I . e ;'. C. ) '· f. ) 411 • I • ~ · . ., . ~I

1)' •\I~ .•. • 1) • ,) i • 1) ~~ • ,\ C. ) '· r. • ) . ., . ~I Shakespeare and Schenectady By LAWRENCE BALDASSARO Schenectady can claim an association with the magic name of William Shakespeare as far back as the early nineteenth century. John Howard Payne, remembered today as the author of \Home Sweet Home\ and as the man for whom Union College named its main gate, also holds the distinction of being the first American ever to play the role of Hamlet. In 1806, PayNe was sent to Union College to be kept under the personal supervision of its president, Dr. Eliphalet Nott. Payne, who was only fifteen at the time, had planned to attend Princeton and expressed his disappointment in a letter to his father, telling him that he looked forward to entering Union Col- lege with the same enthusiasm \as I should to enter the State's Prison, for the same term.\ Dr. Nott, however, soon won the confidence and affection of the rebellious young Payne. In another letter to his father, dated August 2, 1806, Payne indicated the relationship of the student and his teacher. \I am his companion at college; his 'chum' as they call it, and even share his bed. These distinctions are most gratifying.\ (Sharing the double bed was a neces- sity, for single beds were almost unknown at that time.) Payne stayed at Union College until 1808, when financial difficulties forced him to withdraw. On February 24, 1809, John Howard Payne made his debut as a professional actor at the New Theater in New York City. An immediate success, Payne returned to his home town of Boston, where he con- tinued his stage career. It was at this time that Payne, not quite eighteen years old, became the first American ever to enact the role of Hamlet. Two years later, in April, 1811, he appeared in the title role of Hamlet as part of a five day engagement in Albany. By being the first American Hamlet, John Howard Payne began a tradition which was to be cal'l'ied on by such distinguished actors as Edwin Booth and John Barrymore. Payne went on to achieve fame in his time, not only as an actor, but also as an early American playwright (the first to have his plays produced in Europe). The years he spent at Union College were important ones, for it was under the guidance of Eliphalet Nott that Payne was trans- formed from an irresponsible youth to a serious young man. The patient tutelage of Dr. Nott was in no small way responsible for the subsequent emer- gence of his student as one of the major influences in the early American theater. SCHENECTADY THEATERS According to the notes of William B. Efner, City Historian from 1946 through 1958, Anthony Hall is considered to be Schenectady's first theater. Built around 1856 at the corner of Liberty and Ferry Sts., Anthony Hall was the name of an hotel owned by William Anthony, as well as the name of the hall which occupied the second floor. The hall was used for a variety of activities, and by 181;)9, it was the entertainment center of the town. The major attrac- tion of that year was, according to Mr. Efner's notes, \Dr. Kane's Wol'ld Renowned Voyages,\ an illus- trated lecture. Another attraction which appeared at Anthony Hall the same year received little atten- tion at the time, but is of greater historical signifi- cance than Dr. Kane's lecture. An announcement ap- peared. in the June 27, 1859 issue of the Schenectady Morning News informing the citizens of Schenectady that Richard III by William Shakespeare 'Nas to be staged at Anthony Hall in the near future. Twenty-five years earlier, Jon a than Pearson made an entry in his diary which indicates the cultural at- mosphere of Schenectady at the time. \The Durup- ians (referring to the residents of Schenectady) are proverbial for their want of literary taste ... \ In the light of this statement, it appears unlikely that a play by Shakespeare would be produced in the city during this period. Furthermore, since Anthony Hall was not to appear until twenty-two years later, there were probably no facilities available to produce a stage play. Assuming that it was presented at An- thony Hall in 1859, it appears reasonably safe to accept Richard III as the first play by William Shakespeare ever staged in Schenectady. Anthony Hall faded out as the cente1· of enter- tainment when Union Hall was built in 1870 on the corner of State and Jay Sts. For eighteen years Union Hall remained Schenectady's principal place of amusement, featuring Irish comedies, Wild West dramas, and minstrels. No mention was found of any play by Shakespeare having been produced at the theater. The Coliseum Theater was built on B1·oadway in 1884 as a roller skating rink. The following year a stage was erected, which was at the time the largest stage between New York City and Buffalo, and in No- vember, 1885, Gilbert and Sullivan's \The Mikado\ was offered as the opening attraction. In 1887 Colonel Samuel R. Jones and William J. Marlette went into partnership, and the Coliseum Theater was recon- structed. In 1888 the roller skating rink had disap- peared, and the Centre Street Opera House emerged as Schenectady's newest theater. In the February, 1937 edition of the Civic Players Magazine, a list of plays presented at the Centre Street Opera House in 1892 includes Richard III, starring Thomas W. Keene. The March 10, 1922 edi- tion of the Schenectady Union-Star contained an article by William J. Marlette outlining the history of the Centre Street Opera House. Included in a list of plays presented at the Opera House was Shake- speare's Julius Caesar, starring Frederick Warde and Louis James. No date is given for the production. Mr. Marlette concludes his article by saying: The recent sale of the old Centre Street Opera House property . . . marks the pass- ing of one of Schenectady's famous old places of amusement. Stars of the first magnitude have trod the boards of the old theater, 'where Lear has raved and Hamlet died.' 9

The opening of .the Van Curler Oper~ House in 1893 marked the end of the Centre Street Opera House as a theater for serious drama. Burlesque stl·uggled for a while in what was called \Lee's Pop- ular Theater,\ but after 1894 the whir of . roller s kates returned. Later, the local bottling works of Anheuser-Busch were installed in the old theater, and Shakespeare was permanently replaced by Budweiser. In f896 Charles G . McDonald joined the staff of the Van Curler Ope r a House, and served as its man- ag-er from 1906 to 1919. Two of the incidents which h(! recalls were printed in the February, 1937 edition o~ the Civic Players Magazine, an«l they both concern Shakespearean plays. He tells of a night of stifling heat when Richard Mansfield, preparing to go on in Henry V, forced a veritable army of Union College \supers\ clad in armor to wait for hours in the cellar because their presence on stage annoyed him. Then there was a warm night one September - though the theater, having been closed all summer, felt cool ~ when E. H. Sothern demanded a furnace fire, refusing to let his wife, Julia Marlowe, appear in Twelfth Night unless the management acquiesced. Before the fi . rst act was over , actors and audience alike were perspi-ring uncomfortably. Unfortunately, no dates are given for either of these plays and no further reference has been dis- covered. All that can be determined is that the plays were produced sometime between 1896 and 1919. The Civic Players Magazine indicates the popular- ity of the theater in Schenectady at the turn of the century: In looking through newspaper clippings of 40, 50, and 60 years ago, one gets the im- pression that an extraordinarily . generous proportion of Schenectady residents must have patronized the entertainments of the day. Judging from the quality of the plays produced during this period, including many by Shakespeare, the literary tastes of the people of Schenectady ap- parently had improved, when compared with Jona- Mrs. Coburn as Lady Macbeth 10 than Pearson's evaluation in 1834, previously cited .. In spite of the depression which began with the Panic of 1893, the theatl·ical business survived through the winter and spring· of 1894. The fall sea- son of 1894 began a period of prosperity for road companies which was, according to the Civic Players Magazine, \without equal in the history of the Amer- ican theater. Until well after the turn of the century most of the plays worth seeing and nearly all the famous figures of the stage visited the Van Curler.\ By the end of World War I, however, the golden age of show business in Schenectady had passed, and it appears that no Shakespearean plays were produced in the city for many years. MOHAWK. DRAMA FESTIVAL With the inception o:f the Mohawk Drama . Festival in the summer of 1935, the history of Shakespearean production in Schenectady l'eached its zenith. Or- ganized by Union College, under the direction of its president, Dixon Ryan Fox, the Mohawk Drama Fes- tival was a cooperative enterprise with a professional acting company. The college selected Mr. and Mrs. Charles Coburn to direct the project, and they in turn selected the other performers who were to make up the acting company. The Drama Festival con- sisted of a resident company of professional actors and technicians who lived in the college dormitories and ate in the coUege dining room at Hale House. Plays were produced in an outdoor theater on cam- pus, with a wooded area serving as the background. In the event of rain, the performance was staged in the adjacent Alumni Gym, which was fully equipped to serve as an indoor theater. President Dixon Ryan Fox, who had an intense personal interest in the theater, explained the pur- pose of the Drama Festival as a means of providing the opportunity \to understand the stage arts and their possibilities of social usefulness . \ While Presi- dent Fox envisioned the Drama Festival as a cultural endeavor, the governor of the state hailed the out- door theater at Union College as a toUl'ist attrac- tion. In a nationwide radio broadcast on July 1, 1935, Governor Herbert H. Lehman praised the college for forwarding the development of upstate New York \as a place of resort by Americans for health, recrt>- ation, and cultural profit in the summer time.\ He concluded with the prophetic statement: \I congratu- late the college that in its 140th year it has all the alertness of continuing youth for new and useful enterprise.\ For the opening pel'formance on July 23rd, Mr. and M1·s. Coburn chose Shakespeare's comedy, The Merry Wives of Windsor. Mr. Coburn played the role of Shakespeare's lovable clown, Falstaff, with Mrs. Coburn in the role of Mistress Ford. The robust comedy was well received by local critics. Everett Finch of the Schenectady Union-Star praised Mr. Coburn for his \well studied characterization of the Elizabethan clown and one that made an immense hit .. !' Helen Clinton wrote, in the Schenectady Gaz- ette: \The old Shakespearean play with its magic swept us along in a gale of fun, color, action, and avid acting.\ ·• ~ : . ' ' , , . ,) I • ~ ) . . . . I \ 8 ·) (l ' J) t - • ~ · . • . . • ' ; . • I · . •

,, . 1) I e IJ} ' • •· ll • ·) (l ~I • • .. • '' . • !· • Thus, the· Mohawk Drama Festival placed its faith in the Bard for its important opening attrac- tion. The success he brought them insured his return to Schenectady for as many years as the Drama Festival was to be in existence. With a full season's experience behind them (a most successful season), the Drama Festival opened its 1936 season with a more difficult attempt at Shakespeare. Macbeth was offered from July 21 through July 25, with Mr. Coburn in the title role and Mrs. Coburn as Lady Macbeth. The presentation of a Shakespearean play as the opening performance of the 1936 season was signifi- cant, for, on April 23rd, a joint celebration of Shake- speare's birthday by the Stratford Festival in Eng- land and the Mohawk Drama Festival in America was broadcast in both countries by the British Broad- casting Company and the National Broadcasting Com- pany. During the Broadcast, President Fox acknowl- edged the genius of .Shakespeare with the statement: \Any schedule of drama which begins with Shake- speare has imposed upon itself high standards for aU the plays which follow.\ Percival Vivian, a director with thirty-seven years experience in Shakespearean production, highly praised the Drama Festival's production of Macbeth: Considered as Shakespearean drama in its pastoral form, the production of Macbeth which inaugurates the 1936 Mohawk Drama Festival is, in my judgment, the greatest ever produced in America. Local critics were more conservative in their eval- uation, and seemed to be more impressed by the set- ting for the drama than by the performance of the players. William H. Haskel of the Albany Knicker- bocker Press praised the modern electricity which produced a \splendid decor,\ and the lighting effects which were \always impressive.\ The Albany Eve- ning News agreed, stating: \ ... it is doubtful if the drama anywhere is accompanied with such artistic use of illumination.\ Finally, Miss Helen Clinton of the Schenectady Gazette observed: \Every moment was a fascinating picture and the lighting and cos- tumes seemed perfect for the theme in hand ... \ This unanimous acclaim would indicate that the sta1· of the production was not Macbeth but the lighting director. Miss Clinton does however praise the per- formance as \a robust and highly dramatic presen- tation of the splendid old tragedy .... \ Regardless of the quality of the performance, the quality of :\Iacbeth does not diminish, and the Mohawk Drama Festival scored another success with its second Shakespearean production. In 1937 the Drama Festival continued its tradition of opening the season with a play by Shakespeare. Returning to comedy, the company presented Twelfth ~ight, with Mr. Coburn starring as Sir Toby Belch. Apparently more at home in the less demanding pro- duction of comedy, the Drama Festival proved its capability of providing first-rate professional enter- tainment. C. R. Roseberry, drama critic of the Al- bany l{nickerbocker Press-Evening· News reported: Seldom does a present day audience warm up to a Shakespearean play so unaffeetedly, and that response was the high.est possible tribute to the skill of the dramat:c ,personae who will entertain at Mdhawk in the com- ing weeks .... The 1938 Shakespearean offel'ing was another comedy, Much Ado About Nothing-, starring Jean Muir as Beatrice. In an article describing the play in the Drama Festival Magazine, Beauvais Fox, di- rector of public relations for the Drama Festival and former drama editor of the New York Herald Tri- bune, noted the decline of Shakespearean :production in America, and consequently, the significance of the Drama Festival's policy: It is heat'iening that the Mohawk Drama Festival mounts the crest of Shakespeare season after season . . . that there is a place on this side of the Atlantic where the gTeat tradition will go on. Mr. Fox's statement indicates that Schenectady was, at that time one of the few locations, if not the only, in America where Shakespeare was being produced with any regularity. An editorial comment in the Drama Festival Magazine printed the week following the production of The Taming of the Shrew in July, 1939, indicates the popularity of the Shake- speare plays: Since the Mohawk Drama Festival has established the policy of presenting 'One play by Shakespeare each season, the inereasing attendance at the Shakespearean play each year has given added encouragement for maintaining such a high standard of enter- tainment. Undoubtedly, the Drama Festival would have maintained its high standard had it smvived, but financial difficulties ended the partially fulfilled dream of Dixon Ryan Fox. The ,program of 1940 was the last to be offered; plans for expansion in 1941 \Vere nEver realized. Appropriately, it was a Shakesearean play which closed the 1940 srason and, as it tumed out, the six year engagement of the Mohawk Drama Festival. Chal'les Coburn and Jean Muir sta1Ted in A Midsummer Night's Dream, the Shakespearean play whose setting was best suited to the woodland background of the Drama Festival's outdoor theater. In the final- edition of the Drama Festival :\laga- zine, pl'inted for the production of A }fidsummer ~ig-ht's Dream, Walter Hampden, an actor in the Festival Company and a member of the board of trustees, repeats the sentiment expre::::sed by Beauvais two years earlier: It is splendid that in this countl·y there is an enlightened stage as exemplified in the Mohawk Drama Festival, where Shakespeare is consistently produeed each season with loving care, with theatrical intelligence and with an abundance of experience and re- sources where lovers of Shakespeare may see his plays presented with distinction in the appropriate environment of an old and rev- ered college. 11

12 THOMAS HEYWOOD. WILL lA~ DRUMMOND, Wu.:.uu ALRXAKDRJt, Earl of Stirling. NATHANIEL FJELD. PHILIP Hlti!BI!RT, Earl of Mont&ometJ, PBJUP IIASSJJIGIIL A'UntORS AND ACTORSg CONTEMPORARlES OF SHAKESP!:AJU'.. - --- - - - --- -- 4 • • • . . ( ' : • • . ) ' . • · ) b II • . ) fl , , , , . I t • ) . • < ) •

4 • I C, ,, . ' . • • . J ' • • • • · I . II , , . , , . · 1 It ' ) . • <) • OJ ~ I> • BEN JONSON. ' EARL OF PEMBROKE; DRAYTON, QUEEN ELIZABETH. ]OHM FLETCHER. JoHN LowrN. DoNNE. -~------·-···-··-··- LORP CHAMBERLAIN HUNSDON, Rll HARI> BURRAGF. J O!!M T ATLOII, SAMUEL DAKI!L, ~UTHORS AND ACTORS, CONTEMPORARIES OF SHAKESPEARE • - - - . . -- , _ __ _ -- - ---·-- ------- 13

DUl · ing i · ts six years of existence the Mohawk Drama Festival gained national recog-nition for its continued good taste in the selection and production <'>f classical and modern drama. An average of twenty thousand people, from every part of the Dni . ted States, visited the Drama Festival each season. Union Col- lege, and Schenectady, have the right to feel proud and honored to have been the site of the Mohawk Drama · Festical, where Shakespeare was produced each season \with loving care.\ The world he created, with its rnany characters, was embodied on the Drama Festival Stage, and the pt·esence of William Shake- speare was felt in Schenectady as it had never been before, and . possibly never wiH be ag-ain. MOUNTEBANKS Two months before the opening · of the Mohawk Drama Festival, the Mountebanks of Union Col'Jege pt,oduced Twelfth Night, on May 10, 11, and 13, 1935. The next Mountebanks production of Shakespeare did not appear until twenty years later. Professor Patrick Kilburn starred in the title role of Othello, ·which ran from April 21 through May 1, 1955. Pro- fessor Carl Niemeyer's review of the play appeared in the April 22nd issue of Concordiens'is. Acknowl- edging the difficulty of such an attempt, he praised fhe Mountebanks for their fine effort in pl'oducing an uncut version of the play. He wrote: Performances of Othello are rare. In this one the Union College Mountebanks have nothing to be ashamed of. Their intentions are fine, and their performance very nearly matches them. On February 22, 1957, Mardi Gt·as IV. a Cvncord- iensis supplement published for Mardi Gras Week- end, announced that the Mountebanks had decided Mr. Coburn as Macbeth 14 upon a \Shakespeare Spectacular\ for their Spring production. In an article released especially for this special Mardi Gras IV issue, Rift Windmiii, Mountebanks director, explained; \The stu- dents seem to stay away from the classical productions. With this new simplified spec- taculai', we feel tha:t we have come down to the level of all students at this, the balanced college. Mardi Gras IV went on to explain that the spec- tacular was to be, complete in one act, a revised version of thirteen of Shakespeare's plays . The titles, characte1·s, and plots were changed \to fit the sur- roundings.\ Among the list of revised plays were such mutilated classics as: Midsummer Night's Cream, featuring: . ·Crotch, a weaver Hemia, daughter of Exlax HMS Titanic, queen of the :finks Chicken Snowjob, a Puck and, Ring Clod, featuring: Leer, King of Britain Duke of Albany Duke of Schenectady Duke of Troy and Menands Gonnerhea In spite of itself, this publication may explain the lack of Shakespearean production at Union College. While Shakespeare has not been entirely neg- lected by the dramatic society of Union College, the Mountebanks have seldom attempted to produce his plays. While one recognizes the difficulty of such an attempt, there is something to be said for the nobility of the attempt, even if it falls short of its goal. A Shakespearean play imperfectly produced is more satisfying and worthwhile than a play of lesser quality flawlessly produced. It is unfortunate that on the 400th anniversary of Shakespeare's birth, members of the college community, as well as the l'esidents of .Schenectaly, are deprived of the oppor- tunity of seeing the fruits of his genius brought to life on the stage, and must resort to the pages of Life Magazine to read about the homage being paid to the greatest writer in the history of the English language. Except for two brief periods in the theatrical history of Schenectady, at the turn of t)le century and prior to World War II, the plays of Shapespeare have seldom been produced in the city. The directors of the Mohawk Drama Festival realized the quality and significance of Shakespeare's plays, and pro- duced them faithfully. Since the close of the Drama Festival, however, the residents of Schenectady have seldom had the opportunity to hear the words of the Bard. The full benefit of what Shakespeare had to say can best be derived from seeing his plays, and we can only hope that he will not be neglected in the future as he has often been in the past. • . . · • I) t il ' • \1 • ~~ I C ). 0 · } ·, j· 0 '• ' • l ~ e ' \ . • • • II 0 ('II •

. . ·• I) t il l • c/ • ~~ I C), • '\ . • • • ~ . l'l> • • • • Or Bring A Blush To A Maiden's Cheek By ROBERT P. HOFFMAN BOWDLERIZE; (after Dr. Thomas Bowdler, who in 1818 published an ex- purgated edition of Shake- speare), to remove suppos- edly offensive passages from (a book, etc.) ; expurgate -Webster's New World Dictionary of the American Lauguage Of all the crusading prudes of nineteenth-century England perhaps none reached the notoriety of a little sanctimonious doctor from Bath named Thomas Bo\.Ydler. The good doctor's name is today used as an adjective describing the action of censors and film editors. Its connotation is derisive. It is usuaily applied to situations in which the \bowdlerized\ ver- sion of a book, movie, or play has been so devastated of obscenities, innuendos, and puns that the attrac- tiveness of the work as a whole has been dimmed. 1\IIoTeover, a bowdlerized work is one demeaned by the most prudish of censors - one who rejects a word or a phrase not with any fear of the long range social consequences or moral effects it may threaten, but simply because the word itself is \off-color\ and thus ought not to be used. Thomas Bowdler fit the mold of a bowdlerizing censor to a \T\. As Richard Hanner, in the Saturday Review, put it: Thomas Bowdler-was by heredity, train- ing and inclination-the very prototype of a literary censor. He was a case study of the quivering moralist who is certain in his soul that others will be contaminated by what he himself reads with impunity, and is serenely sure that his mutilations and suppressions, far from being in any way blameworthy, de- serve the praise and approbation of all right- thinking men. Until the age of fifty,seYen, Dr. Bowdler lived a 1·ather unexciting life. He practiced medicine for a while but could hardly stand the sight of blood. When a young friend he was treating died of a \pu- trid disease\ he retired from the profession fo1· good. His father's death brought the young Bowdler income enough to leave Bath and set himself up in London . There, again according to Hanner, \he was able to follow his own bent unhampered by the necessity of earning.\ Bowdler's activities attest to the fact that he had set himself up in the politest of societies. He studied prison reform, but true to his nature, he did nothing about it. He joined committees \to improve the condi- tions of the working classes.\ Most ominously for those who like to follow the development of a man towards his life's work, he was especially active in the Society of the Suppression of Vice. At the age of fifty-seven Bowdler published The Family Shakespeare. At this point in life Dr. Bowdler had found a cause that inspired him to action. Bow- dler had read the Bard, and loved him. He had been first introduced to Shakespeare as a youth, when his father would read to the family at night after sup- per. This was the custom in many of the homes of England at the time. Bowdler sought to prepare an edition of Shakespeare that could be read to the whole family without those uncomfortable pauses that would inevtitably occur when the head of the family came across a passage, a word, a phrase, or a pun, that was unfit for reading out loud in the family circle. It was his wish, he explained in the introduc- tion to The Family Shakespeare, \ to render the plays of Shakespeare unsullied by any scene, by any speech, or, if possible, by any word that can give pain to the most chaste, or offense to the most relig- ious of readers.\ Bowdler did not, however, unsheath his shea1·s without a \certain amount of diffidence.\ His intro- duction reveals his need to justify his act. It was his reasoning that it would certainly be presumptuous for anyone to tamper with the \Transfiguration\ by Raphael, or the Belvedere Apollo. If a painting or a sculpture were tampered with the damage would be unalterable. Tampering with the works of a poet, however, yields no such irreparable damage. The original will \continue unimpaired\ whatever may be done to it. For some the gulf between the effusive admiration Bowdler expressed for the Bard and the compulsion to pass judgment on his taste and decency would be an anomaly. Not so with the doctor. In perfectly clear rationalization he generously attributed the:> Bard's many regrettable lapses into obscenity as concessions to \the bad taste of the age in which he lived.\ And so for the good Dr. Bowdler his mission was clear. He had to take out the lapses and leave the poetry; he had to make Shakespeare fit for family reading. . 15

The difficulties he faced were prodigious. Many of Shakespea , re's most famous, most well constructed, and most enjoyable characters are unquestionably and for aH intents and purpo~:;es, unalterably bawdy. Of the myriad of major and minor characters Shake- speare deliberately created with a delightful pre- disposition for sex, drink, and sin, the most well known is probably Falstaff. In Hem·y lV the young Prince Hal, heir to the throne of England, has fal:len in with Falstaff and all the lowlife of London. Fal- staff's ribald crew includes thieves, cut-purses, (pick- pockets), · barmaids, and prostitutes. The aptly named Doll Tearsheet is simple, oversexed, and Falstaff's part time mistress. The dialogues between Falstaff and DoH Tearsheet are classics. For example: Fal. You make fat rascals, Mistress Doli. Dol. I make them? Gluttony .and disease make them; I make them not. Fal. If the cook help make the gluttony, you help make the diseases, Doll. We catch of you, Doll, we catch of you. Grant that, my poor virtue, grant that. (II Hy IV, II, iv, 45-51) or; Fal. A rascal! To brave me! Dol. Ah, you sweet rogue, you! Alas, poor ape, how thou sweatest! Come, let me wipe thy face. Come on, you whoreson chops. Ah, rogue, i• faith I love thee. Thou art as valourous as Hector of Troy, worth five of Agamemnon, and ten times better than the nine worthies. Ah, villian! Fal. Rascally slave! I will toss the rogue in a blanket. Dol. Do as thou dars't for thy heart. An thou dost, I'll canvass thee between a pair of sheets. (Part II Hy IV, II, iv, 232-244) Of course these passages are bawdy. But they are funny when read and are hilarious when staged correctly. Neither character could be censored with- out losing much of the personality that Shakespeare created in him. Yet the very fact that they are low characters, that their language is the language of the streets and of the bars, is essential to the develop- ment of the play. Only the dullest of censors could fail to realize that the image of the heir to the throne of England living as a common pub crawler is brought out brilliantly in these vivid passages. Even Bowdler must have been slightly overawed by Falstaff. An integral part of the play, he was a eharacter wholly in contradiction to Bowdler's principles. Bowdle1· was confronted with the prob- lem of leaving the essence of the play intact while destroying an integral part of it. Falstaff, the mag- nificent scalawag, triumphed here, for Bowdler was forced to keep him. He contented himself with mo- difying the language somewhat and blotting out Doll Tearsheet enthely. It is hard to see how the play could have retained its charm with the loss of this lascivious youn15 lady. After Falstaff the most well known bawdy char- acter in Shakespeare is the old nurse in Romeo and Juliet. The toothless, bawdy, beguiling old character had been nurse to Juliet since the hereoine had been an infant. She has what must be the dirtiest mind 16 in all of Shakespeare. Almost everything that falls within ear shot this old woman turns into an obscene pun. The dirty references fall so fast that is often difficult to keep up with all of them. Bowdler, how- ever, knew her character quite well enough to change: \ ... I must another way, To fetch a ladder, by which your love Must climb a bird's nest when it is dark: I am the drudge, and toil in your delight . to read; \ ... I must another way, I must fetch a ladder for your love. I am the drudge, and toil in your delight.\ (II, v) \ But a Bowdler did not catch all the puns, In Hem·y IV, Part I, Lady Percy, wife to a rival to Prince Hal for the throne, says to her husband: \Come con'l.e, you paraquito, answer me Directly unto this question that I ask: In faith, I'll brea:k thy little finger, Harry, And if thou will not tell me aH things true.\ Eric Parb·idge, in his glossary to Shakespeare's Baw- dy, makes it quite clear that Lady Percy's allusion is most unladylike Bowdler, however, was not sharp enough, or not careful enough, to catch the pun be- tween husband and wife. It might be noted that according to Partridge, Shakespeare uses forty-five synonyms for the male reproductive organ and sixtyleight for the female. One shudders at the task confronting Dr. Bowdler- finding one hundred and thirteen words that fit into the situation and the meter in Shakespeare that completely destroy the illusion that the characters have sex organs. Of course, it is rather likely that Bowdler read many of the lewd references without recognizing their real meaning, as with Lady Percy's castration threat. Despite the many puns he missed and the pas- sages he was too pure minded to recognize as bawdy, Bowdler did eradicate several of the most famous scenes in the English language. Bowdler eliminated part of Act II, Scene III in Hamlet. Perplexing, ex- citing, and a little bit frightening, in this scene Hamlet insults unmercifully the girl he was supposed to marry. The fair Ophelia is shocked and frightened as the man she hopes to marry canies on in what appears to be a fit of madness: Ham. Lady, shall I lie in your lap? Oph. No, my lord. Ham. I mean, my head in your lap? Oph. Ay, my lord. Ham. Do you think I meant country matters? Oph. I think nothing, my lord. Ham. That's a fair thought to lie between maid's legs. (III, IV, 119-131) Hamlet is here unmercifully obscene. What's more, the scene is acted out in the presence of the entire royal court of Denmark. Bowdler could not tolerate it, and he struck it. For all the insight the lines give us into the relationship between Hamlet and Ophelia, especially into Ophelia's chastity, Bowdler saw in • • • • , : . • ) . . I) )) . . Cl 0 . ,\ e : ~ I • · l • • (

• • . . , , : . . r ~ r I) · )) . ! > : 0 . Cl . ~ e : ~ \ • · l • · 4 . them only obscenity. In the bowdlerized version of Hamlet most reasonably mature minds have good cause to wonder just what had been going on between Hamlet and the girl he was to marry. Bowdler's hand fell as heavily on the last of the four Great Tragedies. In Macbeth there is a magni- ficent scene in which a porter describes the after effects of being drunk. He pictures himself as the porter at the gates of hell. In a long speech the guai·d- ians of hell and heaven, aH the deities, and assorted other quasi-religious figures are blasphemed. Bow- dler would have none of this gross blasphemy, no matter how entertaining it proved. The scene was cut, without regard for the Shakespearean pattern of alternating light and serious scenes . The brief respite from the plotting going on for the Scottish throne is lost in The Family Shakespeat'e, and the play suffers for it. Bowdler had an eagle-eye for the double-meaning. If he missed nouns referring, as single words, to re- productive organs, he rarely missed verbs whose general meaning becomes apparent from the flow of action within the scene. According to James Drembling in the New Yorll: Times Magazine this was his forte. And Bowdler was observant enough to catch the double meaning in what Drembling calls \that delightful section of Henry V (111, iv) in which Kathel'ine of A11jou attempts to learn English from her lady in waiting. Bowdler was taking no chances even though this was written in sixteenth- century French.\ Bowdler was by no means the first of Shake- speare's purifiers and improvers. Before the goorl doctor from Bath had gone at the Bard with an itrhy scissors finger Voltaire had expressed the opinion that Shakespeare was a \barbarous mount0bank,\ conceding only that there were \a few pearls in Shakespeare's enormous dunghill.\ Nahum Tate had altered I{ing Lear to give it a happy ending, finding Shakespeare's version offensive long before Bowdler and Garrick had reduced A Winter's Tale to an after- piece, and changed the ending of Hamlet. In April of 1822 The British Critic lashed out at the growing practice of altering Shakespeare accord- ing to individual tastes. It attacked those who tink- ered and meddled, juggled and juxtaposed Shake- spearean poetry according to pet·sonal qualms. The magazine wrote: They have purged and castrated him, and tattooed and beplastered him, and cauterized him and phlebotomized him with all the stud- ied l'efinement that all the utmost skill of critical barbarity could suggest. Shakespeare is, of all poets, precisely that one of whom we can least afford to lose one iota. And it added in ironic satire using the tone and meter of Anthony's speech ove1· the dead body of Caesar in Julius Caesar: \Here ran Johnson's dagger through; See what a rent the envious Pope made, And here the well beloved Bowdler stabbed.\ The jibe hurt Bowdler, who had always assumed that he was performing a service of immeasurable worth for mankind. \Am I to be classed' with the assassins of Caesar?\ he cried in rebuttal, \for ren- dering these invaluable plays fit for the perusal of virtuous females?\ Bowdler proudly cited his re- markable achievements. He pointed with pride at the rendering of the scene in Hamlet inoffensive to virtuous ears. He cited the highly amusing lines in As You Like It, the lines in which the sardonic Touchstone mimics the love poetry of Rosalind's secret lover. In the scene Rosalind entet:s, reading a .Jove poem written to her and attac · hed to a tree. Ros. From the east to western Ind, No jewel is like Rosalind. Her worth, being mounted on the wind, Through all the world bears Rosalind. All the pictmes fairest lin'd, Are but black to Rosalind. Let no face be kept in mind But the fair of Rosalind. Touch. I'll rhyme you so eight year:; together, dinners and suppers and sleeping-hour:..; excepted. It is the right buttet·-woman's rank to market. Ros. Out, fool! Touch. For a taste:- If a hart do lack a hind, Let him seek out Rosalind. If the cat will after kind, So be sure of Rosalind. Wint'red garments must be lin'd, So must slender Rosalind . That that reap must sheaf and hind, Them to cart with Rosalind. Sweetest nut hath sourest rind, Such a nut is Rosalind. He that sweetest rose will find, Must find love's .prick, and Rosalind. (111, ii, 93-118) Out of all this Bowdler decided the last line must be struck. Later in the same scene Rosalind chats with her cousin. She complains that her cousin is difficult to understand. She says \I prithee, take the cork out of thy mouth that I might drink thy tidings.\ \So you may put a man in your belly?\ comes the reply. Sir John Falstaff . 17

Bowdler would have none of this either. He proud- ly submitted the censorship of this scene to the edi- tors of The British Critic as evidence of the quality of his labor. He cited also the censorship of the drunken scene in Macbeth. Here, Bowdler claimed, the porter's \indecent description of the effects of drunkenness only serves to interrupt the most in- teresting parts of the narration.\ The impression left by the porter's scene was, un- fortunately, not for Dr. Thomas Bowdler to decide. It was never Bowdler's intention to alter Shakes- peare, only to make it fit for popular consumption \without bringing a blush to the cheek of a maiden.\ Yet in the very act of censoring he had to use his own judgment to decide the literary and artistic im- portance of the subject. He had to exercise his own literary judgment in censoring Falstaff in Henry IV, the nurse in Romeo and Juliet, Touchstone in As You Like It, and the porter in Macbeth. Every time an obscene synonym for the sex organ was struck out Bowdler was faced with the responsibility for first weighing its literary importance. And every time a 'bawdy scene was eliminated, Bowdler had to decide the effect of the scene on the play as a whole. Bowd- ler was a well intentioned do--gooder who wanted to give children and proper young ladies the opportun- ity to read the greatest poetry in the English lan- guage, but in the process he took it upon himself to make value judgments in areas in which he certainly held no qualifications. In his mind there was little doubt that the purification of Shakespeare was the worthiest of all ends he could achieve. The loss of artistic worth that had to occur along the way was an unfortunate, but necessary corollary of his fine work. To Bowdler no more fitting reply to the insist- ence of The British Critic on having Shakespeare \placed before our eyes as he really was\ could be made than his own, printed in all caps, the eternal bleat of the censor: ''IF ANY WORD OR EXPRESSION IS OF SUCH A NATURE THAT THE FIRST IMPRESSION IT EXCITES IS AN IM- PRESSION OF OBSCENITY, THAT WORD OUGHT NOT BE SPOKEN NOR WRIT- TEN OR PRINTED; AND IF PRINTED, IT OUGHT TO EE ERASED.\ It is the good fortune . of the readers and viewers of Shakespeat·e's gt ' eat achievements that the mor- ality that spawned his genius was not totally smoth- ered by the morality of Bowdler's England two cen- turies later. As it was put by the Saturday Review: The Elizabethan Age occurred a little be- fore the New Plumbing made much of a dent on the open air morality of the Midd1e Ages. Moreover, Shakespeare was an extremely complex individual, and his attitudes towards sex amount to a sort of compleat lexicon of Sexual Man. The result is that Shake- speare never faHs to shake the prudes of an era-from the Victorian \impt·overs\ of our grandfathers to the Freudian doctrinaires of today. Bowdl'er was right about one very important point. For all his censoring and \purifying for, in fact, aU the alteration the Bard has suffet·ed, from the first poorly printed folios, through the Victorian Age and through the countless \modern versions,\ the works of William Shakespeare have survived as they were written. While it is true minor variations have cast doubt upon the originality of parts of Shakespeare, the life work of Dr. Thomas Bowdler had little effect on the censorship of Shakespearean poetry. Shakespeare's works, as they were written, are a part of every complete modern library. The Family Shakespeare, edited by Thomas Bowdler, can- not be found in a library in the tt·i-cities area. No more fitting comment can be made on the effect of \bowdlerizing\ the greatest poetry in the English language. England's Greatest Writer By LEWIS HENKIND It is difficult to decide what it is about Shakespeare that makes us consider him the greatest writer of all times. We admire his dramatic abilities, marvel at the insights he had into the human personality, and spend countless hours trying to solve the puzzles that some of his plays and characters present. We do all these things because Shakespeare was a great writer, but our doing them does not make him great; it only serves to make him popular. If we wish to fully un- derstand Shakespeare's greatness we must delve be- yond the great dramatic moments and the wonderful characters, and concentrate on the basic building blocks of Shakespeare's art-words. As an Elizabethean dramatist Shakespeare had to depend on words to a much greater extent than our modern playwrights. The Elizabethean stage was devoid of the elaborate lighting and scenery equip- ment that are now standard on Broadway, and if Shakespeare wanted to portray a night scene he had 18 to convey the atmosphere of da1 · kness, tiredness, and late hours through his characters' speeches-a memo to the theater electrician wouldn't have had much effect . Shakespeare was further hampered by the technical limitations of his stage whenever he wanted to portray a battle scene. A great number of his plays have their plot crises centered around an im- portant battle. How helpless the great master must have felt when he saw his wars portrayed by eight or ten men marching back and forth across the small stage carrying prop swords and armor! Yet Shake- speare was not afraid. Confident of his art he con- tinually skirted dramatic disaster by including battle scenes in his plays. One need only read (or better yet, see), the fifth act of I King Henry IV to see how Shakespeare used words as substitutes for the great- er action that played in his mind. The ability to make night out of day, and to por- tray heroic scenes on a tiny stage is just one facet of Shakespeare's verbal artistry, but if he had done .. • i ' • Q) I • I 0 ' ) <) . • ) . . I t I \ ! .. ' i I i ' \ t1 • •

• • I) I • I ' ) . I ] . ( ,, ) .. I t \ \ ! i I \ l ~ t ! • • nothing else he would be remembered as a promising minor Elizabethean author. To 1mderstand Shake- speare's verbal artistry we must first have a good idea of what a poet or a playw1·ight or a novelist, or any verbal artist, tries to do. The writer has at his disposal all the words of the language and nothing more. These words have both denotative and con- notative meanings, and the true artist will capitalize on both. The words have the dimensions · Of time and amplitude, and thereby rhythm. For Shakespeare rhythm was very important because he was primarily a poetic dramatist. The words can be strung together in infinite patterns and schemes, and in essence the writer's only job is picking out words and stringing them together. The difference between one writer and another, between one piece of writing and an- · other, when reduced to its barest essentials is only a matter of picking and stringing together words. Sub- ject matter may ultimately affect the popularity of a certain written work, but it has no bearing on the work's greatness as an example of writing. An ex- ample which will be clear to anyone who has taken the History 10 course here is Jacob Burckhardt's The Civilization of the Renaissmtce in Italy, a fine histori- cal study, but a failure in writing. Once we understand that a writer's greatness de- pends not on what he says, but on how he says it, we are ready to examine Shakespeare's writing and see what it is that makes it great. Most of us are acquainted with the great Shake- spearean moments-\To be or not to be . . ,\ \Is this a dagger I see before me ... ,\ \Parting is .such sweet sorrow ... ,\ \Friends Romans, countrymen!\ etc., and while they are great scenes and great speeches, we do Shakespeare the writer an injustice if we consider them his finest work. That is not to say there is anything wrong with the writing, to the contrary, it is excellent; however, in \To be or not to be ... \ we applaud not only Shakespeare the writer, but primarily Shakespeare the philosopher; in \Is this a dagger I see before me ... \ the credit must be shared with Shakespeare the psychologist; in the balcony scene, Shakespeare the lover deserves a great deal of the credit; and Marc Anthony's scene is more of an example of dramatic artistry than verbal artis- try. In order to fully appreciate Shakespeare the writer we must find passages whose subject matter does not prejudice our criticism. One can open to any page of Shakespeare and find examples of good and/or excellent writing, but what we ar.e looking for is the superlative-that which makes Shakespeare, or any master, distinct from the journeyman or hack. One such example is Rosalind's speech to Orlando in the fifth act of As You Like It: \For your brother and my sister no so011er met but they look'd; no sooner look'd but they lov'd; no sooner lov'd but they sigh'd; no sooner sigh'd but they ask'd one another the reason; no sooner knew the reason but they sought the rem- edy ... \ The ideas brought out in this passage are not original or unique to Shakespeare, but the way in which they are developed is. Shakespeare uses a stair-like device to show us love's stages from first glance to sexual fulfillment. In the hands of a less skilled writer the same description might take up pages or chapters and still not have the same thrill- Out, damned spot, out I say ing effect. Another writer might write just as brief- ly but in his briefness lose the poetic style of the prose passage, and leave us with something that sounds more like an outline or synopsis than a com- plete description. The point is that out of aU the infinite combinations of words that might convey the same message to a reader or listener, Shakespeare chooses the one that expresses it in the manner most pleasing to us. If Shakespeare had written only that one sentence we would still have to consider him a great, albeit unprodigious, writer. Because truly great writing . often conforms to Pope's maxim: \True wit is Nature to advantage dress'd, What oft was thought, but ne'er so well ex- press'd,\ it is not surprising that the English speak- ing peoples should have picked up a good number of the words which Shakespeare chose and strung to- gether. His mark is upon the vocabulary which we use daily, and many common expressions which have now attained the dignity of unidentified quotations have had their origin in his plays. It would not be difficult to list fifty or a hundred or two hundred examples of these expressions, but for brevity's sake I will only mention a few with the hope that my readers will remember how many times they use them, and how often they are the perfect, if not the only, concise way of saying what one means. From Hamlet: \flaming youth,\ \in my mind's eye,\ \the primrose path,\ \the dog will have his day,\ \method in his madness.\ From Othello: \pomp and circumstance,\ \a foregone conclusion,\ \wear my heart on my sleeve.\ From Julius Caesar: \it was Greek to me,\ \an itching palm,\ \a dish .fit for the gods.\ From lUng Henry IV: \give the devil his due,\ \hearts of gold,\ \he has eaten me out of house and home.\ From Macbeth: \the crack of doom,\ \the milk of human kindness.\ F1·om As You Like It: \that was laid on with a trowel,\ \too much of a good thing,\ \this working day world.\ From Ring John: \elbow room.\ From Richard III: \a spotless reputation.\ From The Merchant of Venice: \my own flesh and blood,\ \it's a wise father that knows his own child!' The list goes on and on, but we have enough ex- amples here to show just what it is that makes Shakespeare, at least for the ordinary man, the greatest man of the English language. '19 - ~ . ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -- ------

On Playing Othello: A Mentoir By PATRICI{ KILBURN The first year Gifford Wingate and I were at Union College (we came the same year), our glands must have been supercharging, I don't remember what play Winga:te selected to produce in the fall but I do know that, in addition to teaching a full load of new courses, we de- cided in the spring semester to produce Othello in its full length version, with no rines or characters cut. Apparently he needed someone to share his madness, for he invited me to read for the part of Othello. It really was madness, for Shakespeare nowadays is only · rarely produced without cutting. Since I was also teaching a full load . of new courses, I had ample work to keep me busy, but as Mark Twain said, it was a good thing I was not born a woman, for I have never learned to say no. I am at a loss to ex- plain what it was that prompted me to think I might do a creditable job of acting, for I had never had more than a · succession of minor parts as an under- graduate in college productions. I must have thought that Wingate would save me from myself when he once heard me read. However, at the try-outs he failed to detect my imposture, and I found myself in the title part, faced with the task of learning some- thing like a thousand lines of poetry in a few weeks. As finally cast, there was about thirty speaking parts. Wally Stark, short and slightly rotund, was to be juxtaposed as the wily Iago against my hulking Othello. Although I had not reaHzed it before, Shakespeare is beautifully suited to a men's school, for the num- bet· of women's parts in the plays reflects the diffi - culty the Globe company must have had in finding boys with peach-fuzz faces to act the female parts. Macbeth, with seven female speaking parts, has more than any othe1· Shakespearean play. Julius Caesar and Hamlet represent a kind of ilTeducible minimum with two. The majority have three or four. Othello has three. Once the play was cast, we set about the task of whipping into shape our performance of a very long and complex play. Hanna Hall, our theatre in old Washburn, had a regular proscenium arch, and Gif Wingate had designed a striking, flexible setting all compound of stairs and platfot·ms at different levels, starting at the back of the stage about four feet above the regular level of the stage, running down to the floor-level of the audience, and appropriating the first three rows of seats as playing area. There was no concrete indication of place beyond a line of columns across the back of the stage, which could be emphasized or ignored by lighting. The result was that the scene could equally well be Venice or Cyprus, castle-wall or council chamber, and a change of scene eould be indicated by a change of level. For the time being, though, we were not con- cerned with such subtleties. We had to learn our 20 lines. I hit upon a device which, for aU I know, may be widely used by actors. I taped my cues and left on the tape a silence long enough fer me to read · my lines in. Thus I had a way to feed myself my cues withot!lt bothering anyone else. I sat before a tape recorder and played the tape over and over again, hearing my own voice deliver cues and trying to remember my lines and deliver them aloud before my own mechanical voice inexorably delivered the next cue. It would come whHe I f1:1mbled to remem- ber. Angrily I would punch the \stop\ button and curse my own voice for not allowing me what I really knew was quite ample time. At about this stage I came to hafie my own stupid- ity in allowing myself to get boxed into something quite needlessly. I could have gone along, innocently happy in my own l · ittle corner, cultivating my own garden, reading Melville and Mark Twain and Emily Dickinson, and no one need ever have known what a lousy · actor I was. I pictured myself in front of an opening night audience, struck dump by an intrac- table memory which would not bring up the proper line or which betrayed me by bringing up the grue- somely wrong line. I remembered my goof in a high school production when I had skipped two whole pages of dialogue by delivering the wrong cue, but that had been in a play which nobody knew. This was Shakespeare, and fluffing one's lines would not -go unnoticed. I could hear Carl Niemeyer tutting my omission or substitution of a word; I knew he would spot it if no one else did, and I grew dry and flaky inside. After all, I hadn't set up in life as an actor. Where was the gain'? Was it too late, I wondered, to pull out? But I knew Gif would never be able to get anyone else in time, and besides, I had already begun to grow a beard. Very early in rehearsals Gif began to propa- gandize as to how tough on faces it would be to put on and take off false beards for the ten nights of performance plus two or three nights of dress rehears- His. Somehow (as I say, it was good T was not born a woman) I let myself be persuaded to be a bell- wether. I agreed to grow a beard, and g1·adually all the males in the cast except two or three fell into line and put away their razors foe the duration. The trouble with a beard is that for the first week or more one merely looks like a bum. If people would only ask, one would have the opportunity to explain, but most eye one warily and pretend elaborately to ignore the scraggly stubble. Growing a beard for a purpose is altogether different from failing to shave; growing a beard is understandable; it fits within the social forms. But failing to shave smacks of the wild man; it suggests that one is also in need of an application of soap and water. One senses the un- spoken question, \When did you have your last bath'?\ When I was about five days into the beard, I went to a luncheon. The occasion escapes me now, but • • • • • ' . l . ' 0 • \ ' o , , I ! · I . ,l,

On Playing Othello: A Mentoir Hy PATIOCI\ 1\ILBl\l.{:\ The first year Gifford Wingate and I were at Union College (we came the same year l . our glands must have b e en supercharging, I don't remember what play Wingate selected to produc e in the fall but I do know that, in addition to ll•aehing- a .full load o f m•w colll ~l'>', \H' dt·- ,·idt•d in tlH' ,; · pring ,;t · nw,;tvr to prndttt ' t • Othello in its ful.I h • ngth \'l''l'~iott, \\'ith ll<l lin, · :-; ot · chantctt•rs cut . Appat· t ·ntly lw lll't•tkd SllllH't · >llt· to ,;han • his madttt · ' \ \· fo r lw invit . t · •d llll' to n • ad for tlw paTt of ( ltlwllo . It rt•ally w:1,; madnt•;-<s, fur Sh:tkt·;-<p t •:u·t · · no\\'adays is only IarPly produet • d \\'ithout t · utting . Sint·t• I \\'as also tl'aching- a full l11ad of lH'\\' t'ottl':'t ':' , 'I lwd amplt• \\ · ork to kPt • p llll' hu,;y, hut as :\lark T\\'a i n said, it \\·a,; a good thing 'I wa,; not bon1 a \\ ' oJnan, for I ha\'\' llt • \'l't ' h• : tl'nl'd to say no. I an1 at a lo,;~ to t•X- plain \\'hat it \\'as that promptl'd lilt• to think I mig-ht do a Cl'Pditabll' job of acting, for I had JH • H't' had nJorP than a SlH ' . t·t•,;sioH of minot· part . ,; as an undl'.l' - gradu:tlt• itt collt•gt• productions . I tnust lJHVP thought that W i ng-at!' would san• llll' from mysplf \\'h!'n ht• tllln · hl':u · d mt• n•ad. Hmn • vt>r, at th< · try-out~ ht · faill:'d to dt>tt•l'l my illlpostut ' l', and I found myst•lf · itt tlw titl t• part, f:H't>d \\'ith tht• task of lt>arning somt·- thing likt• a tlwu,; a nd linPs of po P try in a fl'\\' \\'l't>ks. As finally cast, tlH'n· wa,; about thirty spt·aking · parts. Wally Stark, :;hurt and slig-htly rotund, w:ts to bl' juxtapo,;l'd a,; tht· \\'ily lagn agai'IJ:'t I llY hulking ( ltlll·llo. . .\ltlwng-h I had not n•alizt · ·d it hl'fot ' t•, :-;hakt ·. ~qwan• '\ lw . autifully suitt·d tt> : . t llll ' ll',; sdwol, for tlw 11\1111- IH · · r of \\'OIIIl'n'\ parts in tht· pl:ty:< n tlt•t·ts tlw ditl'i - t'Ulty tlw Cloht> t ' tllllpany ntu:<t havt · had in linding · boys \\'ith pem·h-fuzz fat·t·s to :td tlw ft•male p a rts. '\'laclwth, \\'ith ~l'\'<•n ft•malv spt•.aking- pat : ts , ha,; IIJO!'l- · th:tn any otlwr Shakl·,;JH•an·an play . Julius <'al'sar and Hamid · n • prl':<t • nt a k i nd of · irn · dtll'iblt• tllinitiiUIII with t\\'o. Th<· 111ajority havt· till't'l' ot· four. Othello ha.\ th;t•t· . Otll' l' tht · play \\'as east. \\'l' ' :'l't about th•· ta\k of \\ ' hipping· into ,;Jwpl' tlUI' JWt'ft>rlllan<·t• of a Vt·r~· long- and t • omplt•x play. Hanna Hall, our tlwatt·l' in old \\.' a~hburn, had a t'Pgttlar pro:;ct • nium a r ch, :md (;i f Wingatl' had tlt•sig-twd a striking · , fit•xihlt· ~·wtting- all contpound of stairs and platfot·ms at difl'Prent !Pvt • ls, starting :tt thl' back o f thP stag-e about fuur fevt aho\'l' tlw n•gulat· IPvd of th<' stagP, I'Unning down to tlw flooJ·-levPI of the audiPnc<·, and appropriating the tirst thrL•t• ro\\'s of sPats as playing area. Th(•rt• \\ · as 110 cotH'l' t> t l' indication of placp hPytmd a line of' eolunms aero::;;; thl' buek of thl' stagl ' , which could bt · emphasized or ignored by lighting. Tlw result was that th e seene eould t>qually \\\l•ll be Venil'l' or Cyprus, t· . astlt • -wall ot· eouncil ehambet·, and a changt· of Sl'l'lll' eouirl be indicated by a ehangP of le\·t'l. F'or the tinw bt•ing, though, \\'l' \\'l'l.'l' not con- t't•nwd \\'ith suC'h subtlt•tiP~. Wr: had to l<·al'll olll' lint·s . I hit upon a dt•\ · kv \\'hil'h, for all I know, rnay lw widPly U:<t•d by al'tors. I tap e d nty nil's a mi Jpft on thl' tapl' a ~ill'IH't• hmg l'liOUg-h for me to l'<':td my lim·s in. Thus I had a \\'ay to ft•t>d myself IllY t'lll'>' \\'ithout botlwring mtyonP PbW. I ~at bdon· a tapv rt•t·ordt · t· and playt • d tlw tapt• on · r and t > \'l ' l' ag · ain, ht•at·i.ng my o\\'n voin· dl'liv e r l'U!'S and trying to . l '('llll'lllbt•r IllY lim•s and cJt.li\'l'r tlwn1 : doud l1L'I ' ore IllY o\\'11 llll'l\llallintl voit·t• itll'Xlll'ably dl'liYPI'l'd tlw nvxt ~ · ul'. It \\'ould t'olltl' \\'hilt- I fumbll:'d t.o n · nH·tn- llt'r. Ang-rily I \\'ould puneh the '' :; top\ button and <'lll'>'l' IllY own voit•t· fot: not allt•\\'ing- nH· \\'hat I n·a.Jly knt•w wa::; quilt· atnplt• ti nw . ..\ . t about this stagt• I t·amL· to hate my o\\'ll ::;tupid- .ity in ullo\\'ing mysl'lf to gl't box t •d int\ ,;ollJl'thing quitt · nl'ediPssly . I t·ould han• gotH' along-, inno<·ently happy in my o\\'tl littlt • l'lll'lll't ' , ('U · ltivatillg- IllY o\\'11 ganlPn, reading· :.'1-ldvillt> and Mat·k T\\'ain and Emily Dickin:<oll, and no om• nt • Pd t'Vl'l' havl' lowwn \\'hat a lousy al'tor I. \\'as. I pi<'tun·d mysdf in front of an opL·ning- night audietH't', struek dump by an intl'ae- tablt• llll'nwry \\'hi e h \\'onld not bring up th e prop t •r litH' ot· \\'hirh bl'trayL•d llll' by bringing up tht• gTut•- sonH'Iy \\'rong- line. I IPlllt'!llbt>red ' my g-oof in a hig-h :;chool produl'ti o n \\'ht • n I had :;kippPd t\\'o \\'hnlt• pag<•s of di:dogUl' hy dl'!iVl't ' illg till' \\Tong t'Ut•, hut that had bl't'll in a play whil'h nobody kilt'\\' , Thi~ \\'a:' Shakl'~f.ll'an · , and fluffing- one ' s lint's \\'ould Hot g · o unnotit·Pd. I could h<·at · ( 'arl ~iemt•yt•r tutting· my n!l!i,;sioll or ,;ub~titution of a \\ ' ot·d; I knt • \\' ht· \\'onld spot it if nu unt• t•lsl' did, and I gTl'\\' dry and flaky insidl' . ..\Jtl'r all, I hadn't ~d up in lift• a,; an : wtor. \\\lwn • was tlw gain? \Va~ it · too 1at<·, I \\·ondt•n•d, It> pull out'! Hut I knt•\\' <:if Wt1uld liP\'t • r bl· ablt· to g · d anyont· Pist• in tinw, and IH · :<idt · s. I had : tlt·t ·: tdy J.pg·un tt> .!.!,'J'O\\' a bl'an!. \ \ !' · t·y l' :tl'ly in n·ht•arsal~ (;if ht•galt tt• propa- gandizl' a\ to how tough 1111 fan· ,_ it would ht • to put 1111 and takt - • of!' falsi' bt•;u tb for t !J .. t•·n nights 111' !Jl'l'fornwnt'l' plus two tll' thn· t • nig · hts of dn · ~s rt•ht ·a l':'- :tb. ::;onwho\\' (H:' I. :'ay, it \\'as good I was not born a \\ ' ollJall) I It-t t11ysP!f lw pt • r,;uad!'d to lw a hl'll- \\'l'tlwr. I agn•t•d to gt · o\\' : 1 hl': . trd, :md gradually all till' nlall•s in tht · east l''\l ' t'pt t\\'o or thn·t· fl'll into linl' a11d put a\\'ay tlwir l'rtzor:< for thl' duration . Tlw tmubl t · \\'ith a hPanl i,; that for tlw tirst \\'t•l'k or ll!Ol ' l' olll' IIH • n•ly looks likt• a hUll!. lf pPopll' \\'ould 11111y ask, otll' \\'ould lHl\'l' tht· opportunity to l'Xplain. l1ut most t'Yl' ont• \\'arily and Jll ' l'tl'nd PlahoratPiy to ignon• tlw :;t·raggly stubblt·. (;rowing a b<•;ud for a purpos<· is altog-t • tht·r ditft•t ' l'llt .from failil1g to shan•; gro\\'ing- a bt•ard is undt•rstandahlt>; it fib \\'ithin thl' :;ocial fonns. But failing- to shan• smacks of thl' \\'ild man; it sugg·t·sts thnt otw is also in lll'l'd of an applieation of ;;oap and watPr . Onl' sensPs thP tlll- \Pokl'n qut>stion, \Wht•ll did you havl' your la:;t bath?\ Wht•l! I \\'as about fivt• dnys into tht • bPard. I \\ ' Pnt to a llllH' hl'otl . Tlw ol'easi on l'S<'a pPs !Ill' no\\', but • . 1] . . I ' • l . . i ' I /• • I f' ' e '· II

• e • • •,.. ' ..1\ • • ' . I. < a • ~·~~ ,I i ·• Prexy was there, and I can still recall the faintly incredulous curl of his lip when he saw me. The un- spoken question hung between us, and I seized some pretext or other to explain that I was growing a beard for Othello. He was obviously relieved to .find that he did not have a wild man on his facl!llty, but as luck would have it, I sat across the table from him, and I felt seedy and scruffy through the whole meal. At this time I also discovered something else about beards which I do not recall ever having seen mentioned in print. I have since talked this over with a friend who wore a beard for awhile, and he agrees: there is a secret confraternity of beard-lovers who make themselves known only to the wearer of a beard. Not that they are beard-wearers themselves, but in all sorts of places and situations, one suddenly realizes he is the center of someone's attention. When one glances around, he meets the smiling, steady look of one who obviously approves. The society has its women's auxiliary too: it is surprising and some- \The Turkish preparation makes for J~hodes; So was I bid report here to the state By Signior Angelo.\ The sailor has no other lines in the play. The young man who played this ·sailor had been one of the most faithful members of the cast; he had never missed a rehearsal nor even been late. Yet on opening night when he came to deliver his lines, his memory de- serted him. He got out, \The Turkish preparation makes for Rhodes,\ but then he stood there gagging, unable to finish the line. Finally, in a clear strong voice, he delivered himself of an obscenity that reached the furthermost rafter. The audience broke up into storms of laughter, and he stalked offstage. I did not get by without a howle1· myself. At the denouement of the play, after Othello has smothered Desdemona, he is confronted angrily by Emilia, wife to Iago and attendant to Desdemona. Emilia demands The Mountebanks 1955 production of OTHELLO times disconcerting to look into the eyes of a strange \Voman and see there a secret regard which one can- not account for. After a few times, the realization dawns: it is the beard. Nothing else explains it, for I felt it only when I was wearing my beard, and I ha,·e not felt it since I shaved it off. We grew our beards and learned our lines, and somehow, we managed to meet opening night with a performance that was recognizably Shakespeare. It may not have been very good Shakespeare, but it was Shakespeare nevertheless. Opening night went off smoothly, with only one incident, but that I shall chuckle over as long as I live. In the third scene the Duke of Venice and his advisors are meeting in council, discussing the move- ments of the Turkish fleet. They are interrupted by a sailor who says: an explanation, and Othello tells her that it has been !ago who has opened his eyes to Desdemona's whor- ing. Othello is full of his righteous indignation and pours out the full tale of supposed perfidy, but Emilia cannot believe her ears, that it is Iago who has told this terrible, tragic lie. She questions, \My hus- band?\ And again, \My husband!\ OthelJo irritatedly says, \What needs this iteration, woman'! I say thy husband.\ Emilia breaks out with a cry of agony: \Oh mist1·ess, villainy hath made mocks with love My husband say that she was false!\ Othello still does not suspect the tl'Uth: \He woman; I say thy husband: dost understand the word'! My friend, thy husband, honest, honest Iago.\ On the third night of performance, I was winding up to deliver this last line when somehow my tongue got tangled. What I actually said was, 21

• . . I ' • • ' ~ r. l. ' . ' I I• • I I' ' . le ,, l'n·x~· wa~ tlwn•, and I. can still J . '('<•all tlw faintlv iunr•dulou:< curl of hi . s Lip wlwn h<· :.;aw llH·. ThP un·· :<tJokr•H <(li!'S( i • oJ.I hung- hPtWl'<'ll us, and I sPiZ< · ' d :<om<' pr!'tr•xt or othr•r t'o Pxplain that I wa:< g1·owing- a ll!'a · . rd for Oth(•l · lo . UP wa,; obviou:<ly rPiiPwd to find that lw did not han· a wild man on his fal'ult ~·. hut a:- luek would han• it, I sat acro:<s tlw t:1hh· f'l'IIJl.l him, and I ff'lt S<'<'dy and S<Tuffy through th<· whoh· llH'al. At this tinw I abo disc<·lV<'-I'< · ·rl snHwthing <··1:<<· about h!'anls wl~id~ I do not r<'<'all < · 'V< · ·r ha, · in . !.!.' :-;<·<·n m<·ntion<'d in print. I havP sin<'<' talk<'d t hi,.; ov<'r \l'ith a f'ri<•nd \\'ho won• a hP: . u :fi for awhi!P, and lw agT<'f':': thC' · n• is a st•n<'t t•onfratPrnity of h<·anl-lo\'!''1':< who makl' tlwnlsPIVPS know11 . ofl.ly to thr• \\ 'P a n•r of a IH · ard. ;o-.;ot that tht>y al'<' h<'ard-\YP . an• · J·s th<'lllSI'IV<':-;, hut in all t;orts of pla<'Ps and situations, on<' sudd<'nly rl'a I i zPs lw is · t lw C'<'ll t'!'l' of som<'olw 's at t<'ll ti< HI. W lwn o1w glan<'C'S around, lw llll'Pts th!' :<miling, stt>ady look of on<· who obviously apprm·Ps. Tlw :<Neidy ha,.; its wonwn's anxi'lia1·y too: it i:< :<urpri»ing: and :<onw- \Tlw Tut:ki.sh pn•paratiou mnkt•s f nr J{IHH · I<·,;; So \l'a:< I hid ! '!' port lwn• (o : t.ll<' ,;l: t\f · · H~ · Signi . or .- \r . Jgdo.\ Tht• :<ail < · >l' ha:-: no oth<•r linP:< 1n th• · · p · lay. Tlw Y<>Ung- lllan \\'ho play<·d this sailor had h~·<'n t>lH' of tiH ~• 111<>:-<t faithful llH'Ili.ht•r:-; of th<' ca:<t; lw had Jlf ~ •\·< ~ ·r 111is:wd a l'!'h<'ars:d l!OI' t'VPn bt•<'n latP. YPt on op<'ning night \\·hc•n ht• eanl!• to dt-liV<'l' his lim•:<, hi:< nH·nH•ry d<·'- \t'l'tl'd him. H<· g-ot out, ''Th<· Turkish pl'Pparation mak<·s for Rhod<':<,\ Lut then h<• :<t ~ ood tht•n ga).!;ging, unablt • to lini:<h tlw lin<'. Finally, in a cl<·ar strong Yoi< ' . P, ill' <1<-liV<'l'('d hilll:<l'!f of an ohsc·<•n . it~· that nachPd tht• furthPrnwst raftt•r. Th<· aurl.it•nc•t• brok<· up into stol'lli:< <•f laughl<·r, and lw stallw . d olfstag<'. l did not gd hy \\'ithout a howl<-r myspJf. At th1· d<·nom·nwnt of thP play, aftpr Oth<·IIo ha:< snwthen·tl Dt·~demona, hP i:< <'onfront<'d angrily hy Emilia, wif<· to Iag:o and attt>n<kmt to D!'sd<·nwna. Emilia dc·mand,. Tlw :\lountehanks 19;):> JJroduction of OTHELLO tinws discon<'<'l ' ting to look into t.hP !\'Y<':< of a ,.;trange \\'oman and s<'P thPr<' a s<'c'l't>t l'Pgard ,,·hi<'h ollf' <'an- not account for. Aft<'!' a fpw tinH\:-: tlw n•ali7.ation da\\'ns: it is th(• hPard. ~othing d:-:t• PXplain:< it, for I f('lt it only whPn I was \\'C'aring my hc•al'd, and I ha\'t' not fp]t it :<ill<'!' I. shaYPd it off . W c• gr<•w our hPa rds and i<~a rm•cl ott I' li m• :-:. and :<onwhow, \\'<' managrd to nwl't oprning- nig · ht with a pprfOl'mam•(• that was re!'ngnizably Shakc»peare. It nw~· not havP bt>Pll VPl'Y good ShakC'spPaH', but it \\':t!' ShakPspPai'P llP\'Prth<'lPss. Opt>ning- night \\'Pllt off ~monthly, with on]~· OlH' incic!Pnt, but that I shall l'hurkl<' O\'Pl' as long as I li\'('. In tlw third se<'lll' tlw DukP of VPnieP anrl his :Hh·isor:-< an· lll<'Pting in coUlH'il, di:<ru:<s . ing t : ht · lll<lVP- nwnts of tlw Turkish flpf'\, Thc·y an · intPl'l upt<'d hy a :<ailor \\ · ho :-:ay:< : <Ill expl:mation, and OthPIIo lt•lb hPl' that it has ht·t•l! Iago \\'ho has opt>ned hi:< eyP~ to Dt·:-;cl<•nu,na's whor- inl!,\. Othello is full of his righteous indignation and pnur!:' nut thP full tal(' of supposed perficly, but Emilia cannot bPliPve her Par:-:, that it is lag-o \\'ho has told thi~ trnible, tragic· lit•. Sht> qu t• stions, \.:\1y hu:<- band ?\ Ancl again, \My husband!\ OthPllo initatt>dly ,.;ays, ''What needs thi!:' itPration, woman? I say thy husband.\ Emilia breaks out with any of agony: \Oh mi::;tress, Yillainy hath madP nHJ<'k::; with loY<' .:\1y husband say that sht> was false~\ Otht·llo still does not suspeet thP truth: \HP woman; I say thy husband: do::;t undPrstand tlw won!'? .:\Iy frit>nd, thy husband, honest. hmwst lago.\ On thP third night o.f pt•rformanct • , I \\'as winding UJ.J to deliwr this last line when sunwhcnr my tongut• gnt tangled. What I aetually said was, :.!1

\I say thy husband: dost understand the word? \Thy friend, my husband, honest, honest ~ago.\ I stood there gasping, impa-led upon my own tongue, as mute for the moment as if I had been hom with- out a voice-box while the audience tittered and then broke into guffaws. I dal'ed not trust another line to my tongue until Marian McKendree, who played Emilia, rescued me. Without furor or flurry she 'led me with cues on past the crucial, offending lines, and we limped through. I never .played the scene again without my heart hammering as I neared that hor- rible \ My friend, thy husband.\ We ran for ten nights, and we had good' audiences every night. The audiences were so appreciative that as we approached the end of the run, I think we began to fancy ourselves as accomplished Sha:ke- speareans . . Afte . r the closing, though, and' a.fter the cast party, the beards disappeared one by one in the next few days, and a saner mood set in. We realized that the book had something to do with our success. It's hard to ruin such a good script. THE MOUNTEBANKS Jlruenf OTHELLO By WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE APRIL 21-24, 26-M:A Y l HANNA HALL, UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS Ct:Jrtoin Time: 8:00 P . M . Price $L50 . For. Reservations Coil: 7-801 1 Shakespeare and his Critics By SAM MORELL There is no library in the world which does not have a section devoted to Shake~ speare. His complete works have been pub- lished in every form imaginable; yet in no edition do they occupy more than two cubic feet of shelf space. Ranged a-longside them how- ever, will be shelf after shelf of books about the man and his plays. No body of work has been subjected to so many literary laporatomies. Play- wrights and pundits, hacks and masters have felt equally impelled to attempt to dissect the man and his works for the benefit of all of us. Yet from each of these surgical assaults, Shakespeare re- bounds more lively than ever , while the critics come away with their inadequacies showing. Why so? The contention here is that Shakes- peare was a whole man who looked at other men whole, and that looking at him any other way is gazing clown the wrong end of the telescope. Let us take a look at the comparatively little we know about the man. Born the son of a glover in a sleepy village in England's Midlands, he lost little time in demonstrating his virility. At the age of eighteen he impregnated a woman seven years his senior. Their first child was born six months after their marriage. The next few years are somewhat obs::urect but there is some authority for believing that the lusty young man had a brush with the law while poaching deer. The practice of deer poaching · exis~ed long before Shakespeare, and to the writer's positive knowledge, persists to the present day. The tradition of strong resentment on the part of the landowner whose deer is poached is of equal antiquity and strength. Whether or not this brush with the law was the precipitating factor, Shakes- peare soon after set out for London. 22 In the space of about twenty-two years he wrote aU or part of some thirty-seven plays, the Sonnets, \Venus and Adonis;\ \The Rape of Lucrece,\ \The Passionate Pilgrim,\ and \The Lovers Complail1t. '' Quantity of production is not a criterion of value, but one can scarcely repress an over-the-shoulder glance at Messrs. Williams and Miller. In addition he performed steadily as an actor, producer and theater-own-er. None of these duties prevented him from enjoying the fleshpots. Where beLter could a man get the background for a character like Fal- staff than in the taverns of London? Af:er a steady, productive and remunerative caree1· he bought a country smallholding in his native village, had a lawsuit or two, and quietly and gracefully died. What sort of workman was he? All the evidence is that he was a conscious man of the theater. Like most beginning playwrights he had not learned the art of writing for actors . In Titus Andronicus (in fairness, there is some question as to whether this part of the wol'k is Shakespeare's), he contributes what may be the worst entrance in stage histol'y: \Enter Lavinia, ravished; he1· hands cut off and her tongue cut out.\ I know of no actress who would not run screaming to the directo1· when faced with this pl'oblem. But in Elizabethan times the women's parts were played by men. The desperation of a man faced with looking like a woman recently rav- ished, the while unable to speak and dangling two bloody stumps is almost unimaginable. No matter; every beginner makes mistakes. He soon learned to tailor his work to his audiences' and to h;s mas- ters' tastes. One would scarcely re:!ognize the his- torical Anne Boleyn from Shakespeare's description of Anne Bullen. When, however, one is writing · • Q : • I 0 • il c 1) () , . I I ' ) . ·, . ; I. ,. ·~ Jl .

' \ ' ~ ~ [.: ... • Q : • I 0 • il ' c 1) (J , -I I I • ) ·~ I I~· II . about his Queen's mother, historical accuracy be damned. Wh~t of the argument that he tailored his work to the taste of the audiences? At this point we need a few quotations. From the Gassner-Allen Theater and Drama in the Making comes the following: ' ' 'The theater, unlike fiction or poetry, is not a private but a public art. Plays are intended not for contem- plation by a reader in a study, but for performance before an audience, and the form and content of a drama is to a great extent determined by the nature of that audience.\ This book contains an excerpt from a study made by Alfred Harbage on the com- position of a typical audience of Shakespeare's thea- ter. Professor Harbage sums up: \All that we can say of the composition of Shakespeare's audience, other than that it was a cross section of the London population of his day, is that youth may have pre- dominated somewhat over .age, male over female, the worldly over the pious, and, of course without the 'perhaps' the receptive over the unreceptive. Although the more leisured classes would have been better represented than by their pro rata of the population, it was predominallltly a working class audience because of the greater numerical superim·- ity of the working classes in the London area and because theatrical tariffs had been designed largely for them;'' In other words, it was the same sort of audience which attended the evening performances of the movies in this country thirty years ago, and which watches the evening programs on television today. It is universally conceded that Shakespeare's plays were popular with this audience. From this one would gather that the audience understood what was being played before them. Plays which are not understood by their audiences are not immensely popular. Beckett's Endgame and Happy Days have received wide publicity from writers and cl'itics; but none has so far claimed tremendous audience .appeal for either. Further, as an actor and a part owner of the theater in which his plays were produced, Shake- speare was very much interested in making money. He, therefore, like any practical man of the theater, wrote what he thought his audience would like best. And, since he wrote with the greatest felicity of expression of any author to the language, it is reas- onable to assume that he conveyed his message. The critics have never been willing to admit this; and for 300 years we have been subject to a forray of explication, conjecture, fabrication, and nonsense collJCerning the man, his plays and the individual characters. If these observations were for the purpose of bringing the language up to date or to explain local conditions I would not care. But this is seldom their object. Rather they seek to assign the most recondite meanings and motives to the most obvious and patent matters. As an example of this I should like to quote a bit from the latest effusion at hand, a collection of essays called Metatheatre by one Lionel Abel. The burden of his argument is that what we ignoramuses have been calling tragedy for years is nothing of the sort, but something rejoicing in the name \Meta- theatre.\ In quoting from Mr. Abel's book, it is not my intention to publicize his views; rather, it is because like all illuminators, the author feels it his duty to prove his predecessors wrong and in so doing reveals the cause of my distrust of all the critics. Let us start with his opening paragraph on Hamlet: \People have grown thed, I suspect, of thinking about Hamlet; also of reading further ex- planations of the play.\ Ag1·eed. But five lines later he is saying: \Yet if Jiamlet is to be clearer when read and less embarrassing when produced, we do need an interp1·etation of it.\ A little later he modestly states: \Not a doubt of it--the best critics of Hamlet like Goethe, Co'eridge, and A. C. Bradley, were overly psychological in their approach to the play; concentrating on its content, they ig- nored the problem of its form. And T. S. Eliot has even justified their error as inevitable, asserting, in a now famous essay, that the content of Hamlet is so psychologically complicated its form could not but be obscure.\ Thus Mr. Abel polishes off the four best known critics of Hamlet. Only Mr. Abel under- stands it. Yet that cross section of London thought they understood it and loved it. After a couple of roundhouse swings at Pro- fessor Kitto and Fergusson (one can't blame him too much here. Their theory is that Hamlet is a ritualistic play in which Hamlet is the tragic pro- tagonist whose problem is to cleanse the society of Denmark, befouled by his uncle's crimen Mr. Abel then quotes Eliot as saying that Shakespeare, in writing Hamlet, was not able to find that right \objective correlative\ for the experience he was trying to express. I · submit that if Shakespeare had ever found the expression \objective correlative\ in his mouth he would have spat it out like a worm from a rotten apple. A more plausible story would be that the company at the Globe needed a new play, that Shakespeare had run across Saxo Gram- maticus' Historica Danica, and that the result was a new hit at the Globe. The trouble with this \objective correlative\ sort of thing is that some actor gets hold of it and begins taking it seriously. I don't think this has bothered our latest Hamlet, Mr. Burton, despite Walter Kerr's observation that Burton lacks feeling in the role. My reason for this opinion is that I don't think that we breed the kind · of man who has a predilection for both Mr. Eliot and Elizabeth Taylor. Now Shakespeare could have encompassed both; and the result might have been a new \Dark Lady of the Sonnets.\ But the Twen- tieth Century lacks Shakespeares. Be that as it may, Hamlet persists in having an appeal for audiences despite the savants. lt has been played in costume, in modern dress in rehearsal clothes, and, I doubt not, in some misguided nudist colony in no clothes at all. Still it appeals to the audiences. My plea then, is to stop analyzing Shakespeare and start playing him. I have the feeling that the greatest master of language our culture has known will be able to communicate with us without further interpretation. If we continue trespassing, psy- choanalyzing, resecting, we just might find the Im- mortal Bard is mortal. After all, the Snark was a Boojum.

Shakespeare Gerntany By WIL · LIAM OLDENBiWOK Recently the city of Bochum, in the Ruhr industrial cmnplex, was the .scene of what might be cal:led Germany's official celebra- tion of Shakespeare's 400th birthday. From all Europe, the United States and Africa, members ot' the German Sha · kespeare . Society (West) convened to hear J:ectures, to exchange results of research and to attend performances of Shakespeare productions. In the Bochum municipal art gallery an exhibition entitled \Shakespeare and the Theater in the Last Hundred Years\ was sponsored by the University of Cologne, and the German Film In- stitute of Wiesbaden placed extensive material con- cerning Shakespeare on film at the disposal of the conventioneers. Although these festivities lasted only five days, April 22-April 26, the celebration is of course far from over. As elsewhere, the German theatregoer will be able to attend as many Shakespeare plays as his interest and adeptness at procuring tickets may dictate. Before 1964 is out it is safe to esti- mate that some 2,000 individual performances, cov- ering practically all of Shakespeare's dramatic out- put, will have been staged in the theaters of the Federal Republic and West Berlin. Most of these will be included in the regular programs, but three theaters, those at Stuttgart, Wiesbaden and Eo- chum, will present cycles of plays where nothing but Shakespeare will be shown for varying periods of time. If there is anything astonishing about the above statistics, it is not the large number of Shakespeare performances available to the German Republic. The celebration at Bochum was actually the centenary celebration of the German Shakespeare Society; Bochum has a Shakespeare Festival Week every year; every year for the past 150 years Shakespeare has been one · of the authors most frequent y repre- sented in the German repertory. During the 1962/63 season, for example, the subscription theaters in the German-speaking area (Germany, Switzerland and Austria) gave 2,104 performances of 25 Shakes- pearean plays. It can indeed be flatly stated that Shakespeare is performed more frequently in the German-speaking countries than in those speaking his mother tongue. There are, of course, reasons for this. In the first place Germany has a great many theaters; today in the Federal Republic and West Berlin there are somewhat less than 200 legitimate theaters in about 100 cities. Secondly, despite the various po- litical changes of the past 200 years, the German theater has remained in large measure a subsidized theate1·; it is and has been almost from its inception a national, or state or municipal institution; perhaps it's not too much to say, an unofficial adjunct to the school system. As such it feels the obligation 24 to present the great dramatic literature of the world to its audiences. In addition a public institution changes its internal organization slowly, and al- though there have been many innm.rations, yet rough- ly speaking at any rate, the guideTines for the Ger- man theater were laid down in the last quarter of the 18th century, a period wheil there was a lamen- table lack of German dramatic talent. Consequently foreign authors were drawn upon to fill out the program and Shakespeare was given top biHing. During its long association with him, the German public has always enjoyed Shakespeare and has, so to speak, made him an honorary German citizen. It is not impossible that Germany made its first acquaintanceship with the great dramatist while he was still alive. It is documented that the first wandering troupe of English players came to the Court of the Elector of Saxony in 1586 and stayed for almost a year. Almost certainly this troupe did not present any Shakespeare, but it was only the first of many which toured Central Europe all the way to Vienna and Graz in Austria from 1586 until about 1660, when they ceased coming. Although Titus Andronicus is the only play which can be documented before 1626, it is surely possible that at least portions of other works were presented be- fore them. A minor German dramatist at this time, Jakob Ayrer, copied the sensationalism of the Eng- lish players and his Comedy About the Beautiful Sidea (about 1600) has a plot very similar to that of The Tempest; it cannot be ascertained whether he knew the Shakespearean work or knew Shakes- peare's source. At any rate, by 1626, Shakespeare had definitely come to Dresden, where Romeo and Juliet, Hamlet, .King Lear and Julius Caesar were presented. Even there, however, there was no men- tion of the author's name, but such a heavy concen- tration of Shakespearean titles leads to the con- clusion that this troupe had access to the repertoire of the players associated with the Globe Theater. The impact of these contacts with Shakespeare was made principally upon the uneducated public. German drama, indeed literature in general at this time, was largely in the hands of theoreticians. It consisted chiefly of the plays of Plautus and Ter- ence, imitations in German of these Roman writers, and a body of plays, which were written to serve in the cause of the Reformation or the Counterre- formation. At about the time under discussion (1624), Martin Opitz established himself as the arbi- ter of taste and form in literary matters, and led the German drama to the examples of the French, thereby ushering in more than a century of weak imitations usually by writers of little talent. Even here, however, there were exceptions. The German Andreas Gryphius (1616-1664) shares with Shakes- peare more than similar looking although juxta- • · ~ • • • • , . ' l •l ,, ,, ' )

• : • • • • • , . ' ] •l •I •I •) • posed dates · ; he, too, is famous for his sonnets and wrote several dramas of real merit. One of them, Herr Peter Squetz, is an adaptation from Shake- speare of the Quince production of Pyramus and Thisbe from A Midsummer Night's Dream. If the literati of 17th Century Germany were not impressed by the Shakespeare of the English players, they can perhaps not be censured too harshly. First there was a matter of class pride. The literary men for the most part felt that they were upholding the values . of an emerging middle class and they had little desire to condone the vulgarities of unde- sirables. The traveling players, both foreign and native, had no position whatever in the social order and were classed together with thieves, beggars and tramps. Moreover, more often than not, they were not the best English actors, and beyond that, they presented their plays in English. Obviously the acting had to be very broad to convey meaning; they presented principally the \blood and guts\ parts of Shakespeare as well as the earthy comic scenes. Gradually at least · one comic role was taken over by Getman-speaking actors. Before, or perhaps after, the play the actors would engage in acrobatic ex- hibitions, and music was a part of most perform- The theater at Bochum ances. It is easy to see why the people enjoyed the visits of the English players, and after the English troupes had disappeared, German ones took their place, equipped with English, Italian, and French repertoires, as well as some coarse German plays, including Faust, which had been brought back to Germany in Marlowe's dramatic form. These German players toured the entire German language area, but they played no part in middle class litera- ture of the 17th century. Shakespeare was scarcely mentioned in Germany until almost the fourth decade of the new century, but then the time was ripe for him and he returned to Germany to score an overwhelming victory. In the meantime literature in Germany had continued to develop in imitation of French classical models. The canons of Aristotle, as interpreted by the French, reigned supreme over German dramatic art. In 1739, however, a Swiss critic, Bodmer, mentioned in a critical journal a certain Sasper or Saspar; other Germans too were reading originals or trans- lations of the Tatler and the Spectator. In 1741 there appeared in German alexandrines a transla- tion of Julius Caesar, done by the Prussian Ambas- sador to London. This was the first time that the Germans had a printed text of a Shakespearean work; it was strongly attacked by Johann Gotts- ched, Professor of Literature at Leipzig and the literary dictator of Germany. However, this time Shakespeare found defenders and when Lessing in 1759 vigorously attacked Gottsched and the literary standards which he had established, a new begin- ning in literary criticism was possible. The opposi~ tion did not know how to defend itself when Lessing pointed out that if Germany had to imitate anyone, Shakespeare stood closer to the German cha · racter and spirit than the French did. By the use of what one critic has called \one . of the most brilliant paradoxes in the history of criticism,'' Lessing cut the ground from beneath those who insisted on \rules by demonstrating that Shakespeare foHowed more closely the real intent of Aristotle than did French classical drama. Finally, the breakthrough became complete when in 1762-66 Christoph Wieland; a refined and polished writer, presented a transla- tion of twenty-two of Shakespeare's dramas. Shakes- peare was now finally available to the Germun public, and those able to read him in the original were adequately motivated to do so. From this point onward, one can speak of the influence of Shakespeare upon German literature, and by a happy coincidence, this period also marks a new era in this literature. Shakespeare deserves, of course, much credit for this upswing, but chiefly there were now on the Ge1·man scene men of genius. Shakespeare no longer needed to be defended, indeed, very soon it seemed as if the German stage needed protection against his imitators. Johann Gottfried Herder, mentor to the young Goethe, regarded art as a revelation of the world. In 1773 in an essay on Shakespeare he wrote: \Shakespeare the son of nature, confidant of the Gods, interpreter of all languages and emotions and character, leader and developer of all threads of events which could smite the human heart--what do I see when I read him? Theater, scenery, players, imitation have disappeared. I see the world, people, emotions, . truth!\ For Herder, Goethe and other young men of the literary and intellectual revolution generally called The Storm and Stress, Shakespeare was a Prome- theus, a genius, a phenomenon of nature who existed and wrote according to his own laws. A cult of the genius sprang up among them, the great man who is a law unto himself. In 1773 Goethe wrote the tragedy Goetz von Berlichingen, strongly influenced in form by Shakespeare, but thoroughly German in content. In youthful enthusiasm for the great Eng- lishman, Goethe and others of this generation con- structed dramas which were so loose and so broadly epic that they could be staged only with drastic cut- ting and revision. It was plain that they had only read Shakespeare and that in prose version. It is 25

eqtially plain that Shakespeare was for these young revolutionists a slogan, a watchwoJ:d for the freedom which they passionately longed for and which was not readily attained in the confining social and political · circumstance~ of a Germany, most of which was under the rule of petty tyrants. Goethe, well aware of his debt to Shakespeare, was nonetheless alert to the danger of being over- whelmed by so great a force. As he matured, he turned more and more to the models of Greek antiquity. In the seventies important steps were taken that were to insure a fuller knowledge of Shakespeare in Germany. In this context the traveling players, left in the middle of the 17th centui·y, must again be mentioned briefly. Friederich Schroeder, one of the leading actors . in 18th century Germany, had taken over the leadership of just such a troupe, and succeeded in finding it a permanent home in Ham- burg. Here in 1776 he presented Hamlet in Wie- land's translation, and now a German audience had seen a Shakespearean play in an adequate German translation and by a company which mastered the theatrical arts. The tremendous success of this performance and others which followed led Schroeder to give an important part of the program over to Shakespeare. Schroeder may be regarded as the founder of the modern German stage. His labors in behalf of Shakespeare, together with the critical appraisals of Lessing's Hamburg Dramaturgy help- ed educate a German public which would be ready for \the German Shakespeare,\ Friedrich Schiller. In the meanwhile, there had been criticism of the Wieland translations, and this not without some justification. They were after all prose transla- tions. Wieland's knowledge of English was not ex- tensive, nor had he the advantage of working with reliable English originals. Wieland, himself a writer of great talent, had no further desire to devote more time to this task, and therefore when Johann Eschenburg, a friend of Lessing, offered to revise Wieland's work and complete the translation, Wieland graciously gave him permission to do so. This work appeared from 1775-1777, all the new translations likewise in prose, except Richard III. A second edition was undertaken by Eschenberg in 1798-1806, but by this time August W. Schlegel, the theoretician of the German Romantic movement, had already begun his verse translation, which may well lay claim to being the most perfect translation of the work of any author into a foreign language. Schlegel was incredibly successful in transforming content, mood, tempo, rhythm and language of the originals into German, and he made Shakespeare, by virtue of this translation, a classic German au- thor. Schlegel likewise laid the basis for German Shakespeare criticism, placing special emphasis upon Shakespeare's conscious artistry and the inner unity of his works. The Schlegel translation is not of course the last translation of Shakespeare into German. It is, how- ever, the one in which Shakespeare is usually read and studied. There is some tendency today to prefer a contemporary and less literal translation of Hans Rothe for stage presentations, especially of the comedies. The German dramatist most influenced by Shakes- pem·e is, of course, Friedrich Schiller. The first great dramatic genius in m0dern German literature, he recognized intuitively not only ' the power of Shakespeare's character tragedies, but also Shakes- peare's stagecraft, for Schiller not only wanted to be read, he wanted to see his plays on the boards. Like Goethe, Schiller reaHzed that there was much that Shakespeare could teach him, but that there was also a great deal that the 18th Century German could not slavishly imitate. With the work of A. Schlegel, .Shakespeare be- came an indispensible element of German cultural life; . consequently his influeMe upon 19th and 20th century writers is more subtle and perhaps less easy to identify. Almost every GerlnaR man of letters has in some way or another acknowledged his debt to Shakespeare. Perhaps the briefest acknowl- edgement is the short poem Hamlet by the revolu\ tionary poet Hermann Freiligrath, who in the 1840's wrote that Germany is Hamlet and the ghost of its murdered Freedom is seeking vengeance from Ger~ many's hand. In 1871 Otto Ludwig, a representative of 19th century realism, hoped to extract from Interior of Bochum Theater Shakespeare the dramatic \laws\ which he felt would be universally valid. Tl1e product of a \scientific\ age, Ludwig was attracted by the \realism\ of Shakespeare and repelled by the idealism of Schiller, which seemed to add something to the real world which was not, he thought, inherent in it. Later Bertold Brecht, with his humanitarian concern for man, found Shakespeare's chief merit to be his con- creteness and the sharp presentation of actual events and conflicts with no reflective speculation or cheap psychology. And so it is that Shakespeare, along with the Greeks, the French drama, Calderon, and her own native sons, is one sparkling jewel in the diadem of the German literary Muse. It is a special tribute to the Englishman's unique creative genius and the universality of his themes that succeeding gen- erations have found in him an inspiration in solving their own particular problems. One suspects that future generations will continue to discover new dimensions of his greatness.

• e POLITICAL SCENE II 'I GUEST COLUMN Page 2 Page 3 Founded at Union College ln 1877 l '----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------ Vol. 95 - No. 23 SCHENECTADY, N.Y. FRIDAY, APRIL 24 , 1964 PRICE 15 CENTS · )Motion Made To Eject Phi Ep Pi Fro~n IFC Rushing Issue To Go Before · Student Body Fourteen Seniors Honored By Phi Beta Kappa Election Dave Crandall Is Chief Proponent ) 0 By AI ~ahmias By Matt Katz The Installation Set tor May First A motion was made at this week's Interfraternity Council Meet - ing to remove Phi Epsilon Pi's right to be a member o f the council. U nion students who go to the Mr. David Crandall, presid en t of Psi Upsilon, initiated the motion. · . dln support of the motion, C ran dall mentioned several points for the I.F.C. to consider. Calling Phi Ep, \the next thing removed from independents/' he said that the fraternity is actively opposing princ- iples which wot1ld benefit the fraternity system as a whole. polls on Mond ay . May 4 to vote f or Stud e n t Co uncil representa- tives, will also give theil· opinion s or; the fraternity rushing ques- t:on. Steven Yohay, a freshman rep- resentative, submitted the motion calling for a student referendum. It will poll student thoughts on immediate o r d ef er re d rushing. The motion passed in a 21 to 2 vot e . B y Barr y ::-.;e w man F ou rt ee n memb.ers of the senior ~la ss were electe d la st Friday , Aor il 17, to t he n a ti ona l hono r f ratern ity , Phi Be ta Kap pa. The y w e r e c hosen from th e top ten per cen t of this June 's g r aduates on Fraternity A Paradox The paradox that a fraternity would · oppose the fraternity sys- tem was solved when Crandall as serted that Phi Ep's do not c-onsider •hemselves a fraternity and would be happier out of the council. a The representatives from Phi Epsilon Pi were not present at the meeting and, thus, could not offer a counter for Crandall's remarks. t h e bas is of t hei r c haracter a nd ex e mn lar y s cho l ar ship. Votes were cast by the thirty members o f Unio n's facul'ty who have been pre vi ous 1 y elected to t he society. No Rules For Phi Ep? IFC Ultimate Power The motion was tabled until the next meeting so that several 1 matters could be looked into. A prime consideration was whether or not Phi Ep would have to abide by I.F.C. legislation , specifica\1y in the area of rusMng, if they we r e removed from the body. The Judic- ial Board of the council will look into the matte r and pr esen t a report at the n ext meeting. Although the . S t udent Council is empowered by its constitution to call a referendum, the Inter- frate rnity Council-Student Coun- mate r es ponsibilit y for fraternity affairs. Ho weve r, faculty opin- · ion is against t he immediate rush- T he new membe rs and their ma jors a r e : Willi am C. Rosen, Po li t ica l Scien ce; Joh n P. Ruthe r - foor ct, Jr. , Physics; Robe rt Scha f - er, Physics; L awrence B. Ei sen - berg , Pre-M ed; S im on B. Sob o, · Pre - Me d ; Christopher P . Bick - ford, Hist o rv; Leon ard Korn , Math; Josenh W. Rudm in, Phy - s ic s; P aul B. Lesser , Pre-Med; Peter Nichol a s , J r . , P re-Med; Robert A. Warner, Psychology; Julian Olf, English; Ro b er t F. Sil v erberg, Physics; an d Allen K . Sch w artz, English. On l y candi- da tes for the B.S . and B.A. de - grees are eligible fo r e lectio n. This elimi nat es e n gineer s from compet ition. I : FI·eshmeu Eligibility ing propos a l. Should the student Charles Pankenier, in his report from the Judicial Board, an- body reject the IFC program, th e nounced that six freshmen have submitted signed affidavits from their F acu lty Council can step in. This professors testifying- to the fact that they have over a 1.5 index and st ep would involve the adminis- th e se men are now eligible to pledge fraternities. Beta Theta Pi has trati on and Board of Trustees as . been fined $50 by t he council for taking a group of pledges on a well as th e faculty . pledge r id e. F011r Year Ex isteuce N 1 I t d ft'' f th 1 f 1966 f C d F . ._;; Nom ina t ions f or the I.F.C. office rs for next year were made at ew Y e ec e o 1cers o e c ass o · pose or oncor Y· rom Tuesday's m ee ting. Daniel Prigmore of Kappa Sigma and R a ndy The deferred rushing system left to right in front they are Bob DjMichele, Treasurer; ·~Skip\ Kuhl of Delta Upsilon were nominated fo-r the office of president and . beg·an .at Union four years ago as Eames, Vice-Pre~;~ident; Bob Cuddeback, Secretary. Posi ng as Presi- Peter Blu of Phi Gamma Delta and Jack Cunningham of Kappa a provisional three year program . . dent is Jack Seifert, rear. Alpha were nomin a ted for the office of secretary. The final election It was p1 · oposed b y an Inter- ------ --- -------- ----- -- --- - will be h eld at the May 5th meeting. fraternity council-Student Coun- IFC Sing cil Joint Rushin g- Committee. and Mike Mill er reminded the house presidents th at, as pa1 t o f th e wa s drafted by Robert Pfeiffer '61. When the so-ca ll e d \Pfeif- p r o g r a m for Paren t s ' Weekend, the I.F.C. will sponsor an Interfra- fer \ plan came up last year, th e ternity Sing in Memorial Ch ape l. He ur ge d a ll house pr esi d ents to Joint Rushing Committee tabled enter their houses. it because the now defunct Da v id- No mention was made of the pl'esent rushing controversy. · son ca lendar was being consider- Council Committee On Establishes Curriculum eel. Lawton Morrison, Student C ouncil president, s tr esse d that · th e Student Council merely ask- ed the IFC to review their im - A Curriculum Affair Committee to serve as a stand - ~~~i~!ho rfss~i~f i~~~diate ~~:~ = ing faculty committee to consider and advise the Faculty ing, h a d supported a review of Council concerning curriculum matters was un a nimously rushing pra ctices last year. He t d f t th F It C · · 1 t' h ld A '1 14 compared the I FC-Stu dent Coun- vo e or a e acu Y ounci mee mg e on pn · cil situ atio n to th e common dif- The committe e is to consi st o f • - - - --- - fe rences · of opinion in Congress . the D ean of the Fac ulty and on e matt er tau g h t in severa l r e l ated He compared the Senate to th e tive from each d e part- c our ses . IFC which has only one vote p er to be a ppo inted by the di- Others a dopted were I.A. 123, fraternity a nd the House of Rep- vision chairman, for a te rm of · · 1 M h d t b r·esent a t1've s to th e general Stud- A b '11 b 1 Lmear Statistlca et o s, o e two y ea rs. mem er WI e a- ff d · h d t I d t · 1 ent Coun c i'l, Moril'son ' was con- I d b · t d f' 1 o ere m t e g ra u a e n us r1a ow e to e reappom e or on Y d · · · d f t. dent that, like CongTess , the two one additional t erm . A mlllls tratiOn p r o g r a m a n Among the purposes m ention ed courses in Chinese, religion and segmen ts o f Student Govemmen t for creating the eommittee w ere sociology. at Union cou ld work to ge ther. Voting In Turnout Light Class Elections By Hank Ruschmeyer The results of Monday's class officer elections indicate an almost complete turnov er of office holders for the com- ing school year. Only thr ee of l ast year's officers will hold the sam e positions as they did during th e past year . Morris Tri umphs • · - -- --- Gary Morris was . elec ted presi- den t o f the Senior Class, d efeat - ing opponent Larry Dittleman in a 9 6 -47 vote. In on e of the closest races in this year's class election s , Jack S e i fert became president o f the Junior class f or the thi rd con- secuti v e year. S eif e1t polled 90 votes comp ared to the 72 votes polled by h is opponent D a vid Kas- per. Lindley Parker was e l ecte d the Sophomo1·e class presid ent o ver contestant Mmtin Pinson. The results of this ra ce were 164- 82 . Student To Be Plays Given Next Weekend The final dr a mat ic produc t ion of the s easo n will be performed in the Nott Memori al st age next Frid a y a nd .S at u r d ay. It will con- sist of three one- act plays, two of whic h were writ te n by Union students . All thr ee a r e dir ected (Conti nued on P age 5 ) - by U nion m en . Initi ation May 1 The i r formal initiat io n into the f rate rni ty will take place on the eveni n g of May 1 , in Hal e House. Ther e will be a dinn er aft e rw a rd, and a speech to the new mem- be r s, delivered by Dean Lo ck - woo d . The chapter of P hi Be ta Kapp a at U nion is Alph a of N ew York St at e, founded i n 181 7 . The n u m- ber of fac ul ty mem b ers in t he chapter is exceptional in com pari - son t o oth e r colleges . Firs t Fratern it y Ph i Beta Kappa i s the original Gr ee k -l etter fr ater n it y, founded in 177 6 at the Colle ge of Will iam and Mary, i n Will iam sburg, Vir- g in i a . I t was organi ze d as a soc- ial an d lit e rary brotherhood, com - p l e te with badges , s e cre t oa t h s , fCont inu e d on Page 5 ) to seek way s to strength e n and · impro v e th e co ll ege curriculum; to re vi e w and ana lyz e th e total c u r - riculum whenever such a study was fe it necessary; to a dvise the Catnpus Beautificat io · n Begun ''Marienbad'' Shown Tonite Olf' s \Bat \ Pr ese nted Julian Olf 's T he Bat, will be By L a rry Briskman direc t ed by John Thompson and Toni ght, the Union Co llege Film .. Council on specific cou rse c~a.ng es : an d to a dvi se on co-operative aca- demic programs with o th e r insti- tu t ions . Th e hop e w as ex pr es sed that if thes e obj ec tiv es w e r e m e t, ~ th e full Council would b e abl e to devote more of it s attention to policy ma tter s an d less to routin e affair$ . Resolution A dopt ed ,. I -1 ~· . •• w .. :. . . : • • •• • . . - A:s:: . ,. _ . • . Art Ca mpbell. Thompson played Series presents its fina l film of the l ea d in the recent M o unt e- the ye ar, Last Year at Ma ri enba d , banks p r o du c tion of T w e l ve An- in E. E. 22 at 7 :0 0 an d again at gry !\fen. H e g raduated from 9:0 0 P.M . Th e tenth in th e fil m her e in 19 59, and i s now takin g series , it won the G o ld e n Bear I Professor Win gate 's course in awar d at th e 1 961 Ven i ce Fil m play p rod u c tion. Si nce hi s g rad - F esti va l. u atio n h e ha s act e d prof ess ional - The film i s di recte d by Al ai n ly, ta k e n co ur ses at th e Am e rican Resnais and was written by Aftet discussin g the I.F.C. ac- tion to r e inst a te a n immedi ate r u sh program for next year, ~h e Counc il cons id e r e d the fo ll owmg C1 ·-: · . : · .. r : I Academy of Dr amatic Arts, and Ro bbe - G uill et. Altho u g h i t is has ta ught at th e Shenendo a h open to num ero u s inte rpretations Sch o ol. Campb e ll is a lso a mem- both the dir ector a n d the a u tho 1 : her of th e pl ay pr o d uction cl ass h!lv e r ef u se d their i nte nt, p r efe r - and h as b ee n act iv e in Mount e - rmg m stead to h ave th e vi ewer ll1lill& ... ..L. b a nks' bu siness staff . The Bat i s \immerse\ him self in t h e f ilm a nd 111111111111111 !I ilil!!!ll! base d on a s h o rt story by Pil · an - form his own concl usions. Th e r eso lutio n: Th at, Wh ereas , the I.F.<?. on A pril 13 did vot e for the l : emtro- du ction of immediat e rushmg f or th e academic year of 1964 - 65 an~ Wh ereas the Facu l ty Council do es not b ~ Ii e v e that t hi s act ion i s in the b es t int e r es t of t h e A ~a­ . , d em ic lif e of Un i on Co ll eg e , b e 1t R eso l ved, That th e F a cu l ty Co un c il respectfully · ask. t~e I.F .C. to r e con s ider its d ec i s ion con- \' cerning this matter. Follow in g discu s sion it was s u g- ge s t ed th a t pr e vious Facu~t y C ouncil l eg i s l at ion c on c e rn e d. wtth ~: ; ot;;~!li ~ ~ i ~if a\en ~eTh ~e ;;: ~ ti ~ ~ 1tr: ;_. : .,. . . was withdrawn. ... . . . ,,.; .: ,, . ,. ,, A{ : , :: :; .• , . •.. d; ) . · .A ·· · d ello, \11 Pipestrell o .\ It is a even t s, as th ey are revea l e d i n • .. • . · · · • - ;. ·· \ - ·· · --- · · · •· · • • ·· • · •. .•.• ,. · ·• · . .. •. •• ,. . . ... f~~~·p~~i~(it ~n p l ~ ~ n;nddirr~re~~ t~e t ~~ ~ ~~t~;: a: 0 ~h~~ 1 ha~~~ ~ a G'~ ~~ ·. ·· · ~ tJ · l evels. In the cast a r e Ch a rl es also as they would h a v e li k ed L > Panken i e r, E l a in e R ac hlin, A ll a n them to h a p pen. The past is f us - \\1 > <· :• · . i Denker , Bu e ll Hemi nw ay , and ed w i th the present a nd the f u - • ·• · ·,, !,. , :.. . • . . ·~ ~ . Frj~y KWhi ia m s a nd Jack Ken- ~ ~ ~i . r ea l scenes with i m ag i nary · · · ~ · · · \· ·· ·· · · n e dy a r e dir ect ors for R a l ph Ra- Good R ev i e w s ~ ~ .. . f · ·. ~ . . ... . , . ?.~;~~Y,i}~}~· ~:~ [;:~~~~~~~~~ ci ;~· ,Cr~;:~r:~:~ ~~: ~ :2 '~7.~ · · ~ ; ~ · , : :: :: . · · . rk · ' ~:~~~;~i~~:i~~~ ~ ;;t?~ ! ~ ~ I ;~; 1 B~;:~r: .~~~~~ : ~~fE{{! Le n n on, Bar b ara Iw a n i k, Miri a m si t ua tion, m otivation a nd plot . ~ ' i :fillk: that 1 sha llu e~er see ••. \ McKendre e, an d J on Trivers . This i s an eye-o pening exa mpl e Professional A uthor of the u se of the cinema d evice- . ·· . .· · .·:· . J: ; ~ Curricu lum C hanges \ By Mark Ka so witz The f inal play by Pirandello the m ac hin ery of vis u a l i mage- . T h e campus of Union Co ll eg e , wh i c h will tot a l ov e r o ne hun - Build in g , President Davi d s on's i s t h e o nl y writt e n by a profes - mak in g , conJo ' i ned w ith mu s i ca l • t< V ario us changes in the cui TlCU-: 1 'd d t · f h M · 1 Ch 1 1 th d o n g con s1 ere a ma s e 1•p1ec e o dr e d · mor e th a n fo ur h und r e d : o u se , e rnorl a a p e • anc e s i o n a l p l aywright. I t is e n t itl e d sounds and th e co ntrapunt a l as - lu m w e r e proposed a nd acc e pt e 'I' · 1 · '1 1 d 1 ' f t 't' · b 1 f ' tl 1 I ' it . , ' · · I ' · I b uti 1 t a nnn c es 1 g n , WI un e r go a 1 fifty co l orful flowering p l a nt s ; ra e rm l es Ill ac { 0 le c l ape · The Man With a Flower in His s is ta n ce o f vocali z ed 1'm ages a nd by th e Council. EE 25 a - b WII e h ' f' · L ' E h f th b 'ld' h 1 d b d P rogram of r e - ea utl 1 cat10n . . 1 t - one t hou sa nd of seve ral typ es of 'ac 0 ese Ul mgs a v e 1 a Mout h. It i s bas e d on a short id eas ~ to excite the i mag 1'n at 1' o n set up to rep l ace EE 2 3 a- an d f 1 hb 1 d d 't t EE 44 \to assis t in th e immediate e r a lly t hou sa n s o tr ees , vmes,' he d ges a nd s hrub s; and a bou t s 1rll e ry P ace a roun I o sto ry h e wrot e in 19 2 6 an d pub - as it mi g ht be exc it ed b y a l ytica l · 1 a nd f low e rin g pl a nt s , ar e sc h e d - ~ se v e nty - fiv e hundr e d cliinbin g r e mov e th e bar e ef f e ct whi c h eac h li s h e d in a co ll ec t ion ca ll e d Mar- t Joem , o r , b et t e r, by the so n a l s treamlinin g of th e M e chamca 1 f h d · 1 · Th' · 0 h ul e d to b e pl a nt ec as part o a p l ants s u c h as myrtl e a nd ivy. a pr e v i OU S Y g iv e n. I S p rOJ- sc h ere Nud e . It h as o n l y two co l orat i o n s a nd nuances of a f1' n e Enginee ring cu1·ricu lu m.\ t e r .J d • t 1 t d · th M .E. co u rses a uthoriz e d w e r e ME t e n yea r program a lr ea uy un er-1 Th e first three s t e ps in t h e ec w as comp e e m e s umm e r c h a r acters, p l ay e d b y Jo e l Lo w- sympho n y .\ 31, F l uid System An a ly sis , ME 34, w a y. . p l a n hav e b e en comp l eted or are of 196 3. This sp rin g t h e e l ms e n s te in a nd Joh n B ec k e rm a n . Th e film s u ggests th at t i me Th er mal Energy Co nv e r s ion, M E Elms Dyin g 1 · pr ese ntly b e in g com p l ete d. Fii'st a lon g Libr a ry Field a r e b e in g r e- R ea lly mor e of a dr a m a ti c dia- a nd e mot i on have no te rmi nal 35, , E x perim ~ ut a l M e c.h a nic a l JFn - At pr ese nt n ea rl y all of Un - 1 1 . to b e e nhanc e d by n e w flora w e r e ph l ace ~ an ! 0 . adde 1 d tot. d ~ l sof s hl·ub t -f I og u e than a play, i t has a theme poin ts, th a t th ey merge in f ie l ds g me e rin g , M E 48 F . Imd. Dyn a m!c s , . i on's s h ad e ·g idn g fo l i ag e i s com- 1 th e op e n sp a c es and ar e as bound- e r y I S 1 e m g P an e m ron ° . typica l of P ir andello , th e s tru g - of g r avity surro u ndi n g m aterial a nd M E 49 , Engmeerm g D es 1 g n pri se d of e l m tr ees , whi ch unfor - 1 in g Achilles f i e ld, th e ar ea s th e Psy rho l ogy a nd P hy s i cs B uild - gle b e tw ee n ima gi n a tion a nd things a nd magneti z e d th e s ensi - artd Exp e rimentation . Th ese re - tunat e l y have b ee n dyin g i n t h e a ro u nd th e W est C oll ege a nd in g , a round the N ott M e mor ia l reali ty. R a l ph Rade ll a nd Re z t i ve p e o p l e within t h e s e f ie lds . vi s ion s w e r e propo se d to reco g nize l as t f e w y ears. R e p l acing and R, i c hmond H ou se parking l ots . a nd Ba il ey Hall; an rl in fron t of Willi a m s a r e co - dir ec tor s . Wil- Th e film can certainly be ranked s om e evo luti onary modifi cations comp l e m e ntin g the se will be s had e I ~ ex t ~ . o b e don e w as a l ar ge area t h e E l ec tri <> al E n g in ee r in g a nd Uams i s th e d es i g n er o f th e s et . as a n o u tsta nd i li g achieveme nt which have occurred in rece nt tr ees , s uch as mapl es , be e ches, mcludm g Hal e House , Old Gym, C h e mistl~y Bu il din g . Rade ll has pr ev iou s ly been seen I for it s ava n t-ga rd e di r ector , A l a i n y e ars; and to re or g ani ze subj e ct oaks an d lind e n; e v e r g r ee ns, Sill iman Ha ll, th e Admi nistr ation ( C ontinued on Page 5) in f our Mountebank s produ c tions. Resnais .

World Trade: On Students By Prof Neal Allen Dr. Neal Alleu, this week's guest columuist, ill a Profe!lsor of History and Chairman of Division II. 1Vly two immediate predecessors in this guest column chose to engage in a discussion ('dialogue\ is, I believe, the current fashion- able term in intellectual circles) on the question of faculty research. It is an important and obviously topical issue, as the present excite- ment over Profes::;or Sa~Te':s statu::; at Tuft,; re\'eals. And thi,; is all evident from the seriousness with which Messrs. Hutzel and Gada approached the issue; indeed, the former, in the good tradition of academic thrust and pa1·ry, saw fit to pursue the subject into the Letters column of this paper. Now it is true that the last word on the subject has not been uttered-can it really ever be'! So the obvious play for me is to enter still another opinion, perhaps by way of the \Division II\ approach. After all, one is told that all things at Union, at least all the Big Issues, come to rest at last on the uneasy ground of \diYision.\ And the Division of Social Studies was never known to back off from issues. Big or otherwise. As tempt- ing as it might be for me to describe my own research, or discuss re~ean:h in general, I mm;t reject the idea. My research interests are important to me: in and of themselves; because in a small way they may proYide something ot' value, if only a footnote or two, for other scholal·s; less significantly, perhaps, because even (or especi- ally) for a Division Chairman at l.'nion College Research is a refuge and a retreat into sanity and order from the daily round of commit- tees, class preparations, Faculty Council meetings-and dare I write the word ?-politics. Subject is Students Which brings me to my subject. It is another matter, though not in the end unrelated to faculty research, or at least to faculty. It is oddly enough, students: what they a1·e and what they become. The idea came to me a few weeks ago when I spent a long after- noon with half a dozen colleagues and three students interviewing the applicants for next year'~ St. Andrews exchange. It would be easy to write with some asperity that we spent a great deal of time which could have been more profitably employed, for w~ :sat from early afternoon until close to seven o'clock- Yet in retrospect I would have to disagree, for this was one of the most interesting and valuable afternoons I can remember out of the recent months. It is refreshing and exciting to exchange ideas with a group of students as able and as interesting as these applicants were. I left feeling that Union is a good place, after all. But I also went away from that session with some disturbing questions that I found less easy to answer. Why was it, that even among these exceptionally able students, there was often little understanding of or even interest in a good many of the serious issues of our times? More pointedly, why don't students read more, and why don't they read mot·e widely and deeply? I am told that it is partly our culture; little American boys are not really supposed to be interested in books, so that one can hardly expect big boys to be very much at ease with the printed page-at least beyond the requirements of assigned reading. It is not an entirely satisfactory answer. My impression of these and other gifted and able students I know is in fact that they are very serious about their work, even, I think, too serious in the sense that ther seem often consumed with a compulsive, narrowing drive to master it all because this is the way to success. These are general- izations to which one could cite a good many exceptions of course. Yet there is prevalent a kind of pre-professionalism that seems to me to be hostile to the ends of liberal education. Life is real, you must specialize, and the future is uncertain. God knows the future is uncertain, and this is an age of anxiety. That is one generaliza- tion that holds. But one keeps wishing a few of these intense young men would relax a bit, look around them, sample more widely and more deeply the rich variety that our world and our civilization offer. Life Itself is Faster The answer is, I suppose, that the pace of American life in the '50s and '60s has certainly beco.ne faster and the demands made on all of us, and especially on the gifted and the ambitious among us, are more intense. This cannot help but be reflected in undergraduate education, even as it has transformed what once was supposed to he the leisurely life of the college professor. We cannot alter these facts. Perhaps we ran work to bring them a bit under contr.ol, however. Perhaps, for example, we can modify-not dilute-the rigid 1·equirements of credit hours needed for greduation. Pet•haps we should re-examine the present five course load for students. I think that we should, and I suspect that we will. I almost shudder to introduce the word calendar in these pages. After last fall that word has the power to induce nightmares. But there was a good deal ?f merit i!J that agonizing debate, and a fairly wide though not unammous behef that what the se\'eral calendar proposals had in common was an approach to curricular change that was in many way over due. That we could not agree on details is no argument that we are opposed to change. It is simply that on sober second thoughts many nf us felt that cun-irular rhange shoulrl preC'ecle, and determine, calendar alterations, not vice versa. Beyond Time What college students become is even more important perhaps t~an what they are. I am sometimes appalled when I see'how very ltttle a college education produces in the way of critical awareness sensitivity to excellence, or intelligent concern for the common g'Jod: (Continued on Page 5) DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and legal Beverages 118 a 120 JAY STREET 6616AI666AA!ft644.6AAAAAAA++tt6f#*,4,6A~ Down to Louis' t let us go, Let the Jager freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR .4-8917 The Glee Club rehearses. Union Glee Club Scores Success By Robert S. Holfman Out of the North, out of the still grey mist which greets the early morning in \good guy\ land he comes. Not a white steed, but a Volkswagen, carries him, not the hearty heigh ho of the Lone Ranger, but the H.A.W. on his license plates announce the arrival of the One, the Only Other mem- ber of Union's faculty: Hugh Al- len Wilson. And with him ride the hopes of f01ty tuxedo clad youths who have foresaken their toy holsters and their beer bottles in order to carry on the traditions of the Union College Glee Club. But, Volkswagen and all, they have not succeeded in carrying on the traditions of the Glee Club, Undon Style. They have, instead, learned to sing, not only well, but very well. formance, and best of all, where it can consistently sing on pitch. By revamping rehearsal schedules so that sectional rehearsals are in- cluded, and by adding an hour to practice sessions on both Monday and Wednesday, Professor Wilson has given himself the time needed to do something with his raw ma- terials. His raw materials, which happily include good freshmen, have done their share by singing and sweating, and by learning a large repertoire of interesting mu- sical compositions. The group has, or will have performed, at or with Green Mountain, Vassar, Mary- mount, Skidmore, Emma Willard, Russell Sage and Elmira. Their concerts included Poulenc's \Glor- ia\ with Elmira, \Dido and Aen- eas\ with Skidmore and Emma Willard, and the Monteverdi Mad- rigals with Vassar. In addition they have prepared several diffi- cult and seldom performed pieces, such as the Hindemith Songs and a Genzmer composition. In re- sponse, the audiences to which the Glen Club performed greeted it with enthusiasm. One director confided that Union was only the fourth group in eight years to be invited back, and the others all extended invitations to the group for return engagements. At the present time the Union men have tentative dates for concerts dur- ing the coming semester at Vas- sar, Connecticut College for Wom- en, Wellesley, Marymount and the World's Fair. In addition, they will do the Beethoven Oth with the Albany Symphony. Friday, April 24, 1964 Guest Column: U.N. Conference By Richard Sifton Several weeks ago, nearly 2300 delegates and representatives . from 122 countries met at Geneva to begin three months of discus- s~on and negotiation on world trade policies. Called the United Na- tions Conference on Trade and Development, it is the largest meet\ ing of its kind in histo1·y and probably the most confused. The Conference represents an attempt by the poorer nations of the world to gain a more favorable position in international trade. . The poor nations are seeking the reduction and, in some cases the eliminati~n of. tariff b~1-riers imp?sed upon their exports; they are also seekmg higher prices for then• export commodities and western subsidy for their industrialization programs. Widening Gap Dr. Paul Prebisch, a talented Argentine economist who directed the U.N .. 's Economic Commission for Latin America from 1950 to 1963, is secretary-general of the Conference. He has talked and written extensively on the proble~ of the widening trade gap whic}J. ~aces man~ underdevel~ped co'!mt1·1es. The poor nations are import- mg expensive western mdustr1al goods, the price of which is rising stea~i!y, while the value of their exports is falling for many com- modities. In 1950, the underdeveloped countries accounted for 30 per cent of world trade; by 1960 their share had dropped to about 20 per cent. According to Prebisch, this combination of factors indicates that by 1970 the trade gap for those countries will be $20 biliion annually. Dilferences and Conflicts The impoverished nations, regardless of their common cause are not wholly united at the Conference. There are several small nations which haye attained favorable tra~t; balances through existing en- · forced pnce levels on such commod1t1es as coffee and tropical fruits· they are not anxious to press for greater reliefs. There are many potential conflicts which will undoubtedly become more apparent and fSfOW larger as th~ Conference progresses. In some instances, these d~~erences may .stmply reflect. various levels .of development and d~fferent econom1c :'t_ructures; m others, they may involve political d1fferences and amb1tlons. Soviet Rallying Point One of the :problems which will be extensively discussed is that of the Genera! Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Communist nations are not permitted to enter GATT; the 60 member nations include primm•ily the wealthy industrial countries which are in a position as the :najor buyers of e_xported goo~s, to fi~ price levels. Natura!ly,'the Soviets have used th1s as a rallymg pomt, proposing some form of organization which will undercut GATT. Regardless of the propa- ganda advantage which this situation would seem to give to the Soviet camp, the communist nations will ultimately have to \put up or shut up\: only- five per cent of the exports marketed by the un- derdeveloped nabons are purchased by communist countries. Several Barriers Th~ underdeveloped nations face several barriers in their attempt to ~ttam greater status in trade. Britain's system of preferential tanffs among Commonwealth nations is one, the policies which the European Economic Community has established concerning external trade is an?ther.. Also,, European countries are currently undergoing ~ roun~ of mflat!on which, altl}ough not serious, will certainly dimin- Ish their enthus1asm for makmg concessions. The United States is probably more recep~ive; Under Secretary of State George Ball, head of the U. S. delegat10n, has offered to lower tariffs significantly for the underdeveloped countries. Self-imposed Obstacles A~other significant barriel' is the condition of the underdeveloped cc;m~tr1es themselves. Mll;ny nation~ re~eive vast amounts of foreign a1d m all forms, yet t~en· economies 1mprove only slightly or even :vorsen. Govern?Uent m1smanage~ent and corruption is commonplace 1ll small countries; an undetermmed amount of foreign aid money and government revenues ends up in either Swiss or American banks. Last year, for example, the cost of living in Brazil rose 70 per cent thro~gh go_ve~ment ~nspired inflation. As a result of these factors, the mdustriahzed nations may not be able to see a valid moral1·eason for gt:antmg considerable concessions especially if such favors in f!lct g1ve-aways, e~danger the domestic and foreign competitive posi- tions of the grantmg countries. ~xactly what the results of the Conference will be is very un- certam. The poor nations have set forth their demands but it is doubtful that they will be answered to their satisfaction. PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS One wonders how the oft crit- icized sterile soil here at Union managed to spawn such a group. The answer, like the solution to the manifold miseries of the Skid- more-Union Orchestra, is simple to state, yet hard t() achieve. The reason the Glee Club has succeed- ed where the orchestra has not in realizing some of the collective hopes of the musically inclined at Union stems from the relative ease with which vocalists can be trained. It takes years to pro- duce a competent violinist, yet only a few months to turn out a second tenor. That is why Un- ion's Glee Club, always in able hands, has consistently outshone her instrumentalist counte1·parts, even though the instrumentalists have had the benefit of superior direction. However, it takes an especially fine musician who is willing to call for extra effort and who is willing to direct it, to mold a decent group of semi-singers who can put over a song into an ensemble whose performance is characterized by musicianly ap- proach and high quality. Union ggt t}J.a·t especially fine musician when it let Professor Wilson drive out of the N 01-th. While next season is already being planned, this one is not yet over. The Glee Club will perform at the Annual Concert at the Mo- hawk Club, and on Parent's Week- end when it will sing the Faure Requiem. Members of the College Community are invited to attend the latter, and this time they will probably find themselves pleas- antly surprised with the caliber ~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii\\\'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~~::::.:::::::::::::::::.::::::::::::::::::::::;;:;:::::::::-;:;:::;: of the singing. Union has always I' ............._------ -- • --- ---- With Mr. Wilson at the helm the Glee Club has rehearsed its way to the point where it can un- dertake difficult works and do them more than adequately, where it can perform with girls' schools and more than equal their per- sung with good groups from Skid- more and other women's schools which usually sport fine choral or- ganizations, but in the past it has · never been able to consistently match its female co-performers. Now it can. For that we are pl'Oud. Shaver Service REPAIRS and SALES ON ALL MAKES OF ELECTRIC SHAVERS Phone FR 4-9741 7241/2 STATE STREET EASTERN AVE. Quick Clean Cleaner WASH 25c DRY 10c 835 EASTERN AVE. Wally's Diner • Home Made Pies Good Coffee • 325 Erie Blvd. Open Daily 5 A.M. 7 P.M. D&J AUTO StRVICE 1372 Union St. BRAKES - TUNE-UP WHEEL ALIGNMENT &. BALANCE Dl 6-9644 Student Sim S-T-R-E-T-C-H JEANS Wheat, Olive & Blue Sizes 2 8- 3 6 $5.95 334 State St. We gladly Cash your checks Friday, April A rather this time. Go· Jet him, seems marvel, the di of the rank a stream of Am whu really do Goldwate pledged to hir will win, and nomination or a chance at : Lodge, since · many primari gates. Howev currently run position of s Kefa-uver's. In last '.1 failed to dem agains~t Senal received only 50o/o ofl the v her votes W€ came in third voting distric in a. candidat' .predicted 80~ William Scot torial attemp some 200,000 considered, t: jection of Go In the rE officially ent' based on inc< gates pledge1 Republican s This Goldwa1 headed by fo law fame. It has b( May 15 with we think is . l'egardless o: fornia, the ' Rockefeller. a rather larg Harold Stass mary and th to go to son: At this either Richal have enough logical choic1 teed loser. V cratic ones i these two m cially if Gov ing he did in ( April 24- AJJri! 2!-i- April 26--: April 27-1 April 29-: April 30- May l-P1 RESTAURANT FOUNTAIN SU BAR SUPPLIES POLYETHELENI CELLOPHANE J. NOG s. WHOL PAl STAT lONE Phl'ne FR 4-•

World Trade: On Students By Prof :\Pal .\lien Dr. ::-.;eal Allen, thi;; \wt•k'~ gut•:>t columnist, i,., a l'rofPssur of Hi,.;tory and Chairman of Division II. ~! \' two imlnc·diat.v pl·c·dc•,·c·s,;.,rs in thi,; gnt•,t c·olumn t'hosc· to· c·ngav;~ in a clisl'ussi<~ll ( 't~ialo)..!.'Ul'\ is, I !Jt•lit•n•, th~· ~·unt•nt fashion-' ahlt• \.Prill in intdllol'tual l'll'dl's) <•11 th<' qtH·StlOII ot fat'ulty rc·Sl'Ul't'h. It is an impn1·tant and ohviou,;ly topind j,.,sut•, as the Jll't'Sl'llt l'Xl'ite- 1 nll\JI\ 0\'l'l' l'!ot't•ssor ::-;ayrl''s status at Tufts t't'\t•als. .-\nd this i~ all p\·idl'llt fl'lllll th•· \''I iou:;n••ss with whidt :\lc•ssl·s. Butzc•l aud (iado approadwd tht• JS>'Ut·; iudt•t•d, tht· .. foi'IIWI', in tht• good. trad.ition uf :ll·adt•mie thru,;t and pan y, ,a\\· ·t 1t to pur>'Llt' tilL• ,;uhjet·t mtu tlw Lt•ttl'l'S l'olumJJ u:t' this papc•J'. :\<·II. Jt is tnll' that tlw la,;t \\'o>rd on, tlw suhjt•t·t ha,; nut ht'l'll uttt·n·d - c·an it n·al.ly. t•n•r ht• ·~ :-;\ tlw i .. t.viuus pia~· !'or nw is t<~ t•nt.t•r stil_l anotht'l' op~I!Joll, )ll'rhaps by way I uf tht· \llivi II\ apprna,·h .. \t\t'l' all. <'Ill' I» tnld that all thmg·s I at Cni\\· at h·a:<t :Ill tlw Big J,;,.;up,;, l'llJIIP to l'<>\t at last nil till' I unt•asv oround of \dh i:-;illn.\ And till' lli\·isiull of Social Studil's \\'as lll'\'t'l'- k~U\\'11 to hal'k nff t'n•ut is,.;ut•s. Big- \!' otht•rwist•. .-\,.; tempt-; ing as it 111ight I'll' fpJ' llll' \<1 t!t•Scl'iht• 1!1~' o\\'11 l'l'St':tl'l'h, Ill' diHl'HSS: I'L'~em·ci 1 in gL·IIvt;~l, I tllll>t J<'J<'<·t till' 1dc·a. :\ly n•span·h Jn\t•Jv\ts · an· important tu tm·: in ~tnd of: tht•ms<>_I:·t·s; lwnt.ll>'l' in a small w_a~·: tlll'Y ntay pn•\ 1dc· So>tndhtn/-'. ol \·a]UL', 1! only a lootnott• Ill' t\\'n, lt~l', other s<·holars: les,.; sig·nit'k:llltly, Jll'l'haps, ht•caUst• l'H'll (or l'Sjlt'l'I-' ally J fo1· a lli\ ision l'l1ainmlll at L'niun l'olleg-t• _HPst•arl'h is. a refug-(' and a Jdn•.at into ,.;anity and unlt•r fro1n tht• dally round ot· t•ommrt- tl'e,;, cla;;s pn•purations. F:l<'Ulty ('ounl'ii lllL'etings-aml dan• I write tltt• word'? -politit·s. The Glee Club rehearses. ...... --~--------- Union Glee Club Scores Success By Robert S. Hoffman \-\'hirlr bring~ me tc< my suhjl'd. It i::; anotht•r matter, though !lilt in thL• t•nd unn•l<1kd to faculty n•sean·h, o1· at h·a:.;t to faeulty. It is otldly t•nou~h, studt•llts: what they an~ and what tht•y bee~me., Tlw itlc•a l':tllll' to lllt' a fl'W \\'l'l'ks ago when I Sjll'llt a long· after- , noon with half a doZPII ['ollt•agut•;; and thret• students intervit•wing tht• applkant,; for nl'xt yc•ar's St. .-\ndrew,.; exehang-l'. It would be i _Out of th~ ~or~h, out of the formance, and best of all, where pas\' to ,nitl' \\·ith snnw asrll'rity that we spt•nt a great dt·ul \! tune 1 st!ll grey nust wh1eh g1·pets the it t·an consistently sing on pitch. whi\ch t·uuld han· ltl't'll IIJol'l' profitably t'mployd, for 1\'t' sat from; early momi1;g in \gu_od guy\ land By revamping rehearsal schedules l'·u·Iv ·tftern<><>JJ until ('illst• to st-Yt>n \'l'lock. Yet in t·etro:.;pel't I 1 he comes. Not a white steed, hut so that sectional rehearsals are in- ,,~0u.ld lwn• to r!isagn•t>, t'or this was one of tlH• must interl'sting u1~d 1 a Volkswagl'l~, carries him, not eluded, and by adding an hour to valuable after1wons I can remember out Gt' the recent months. lt 1s j the hea1·ty he1gh ho of the Lo1~e practice sessions on both Monday 1 ·l'fre.shing and t•xciting to exchange ideas with a group of students~ l~unger, but the H.A.W. on _lus and Wednesday, Professor Wilson u:; ahle and as inteJ't•sting as thesl' applkanb were. I left fp~]ing I hcense plates announce the an·n·al has gi\·en hi~1self ~he t~me needed that l. · 11 i\n is a g·oucl p!at'l'. aftl'l' all. Hut I also wt·nt away t rum 1 of the Op~. the Onl:,· Otht·r mem- to ~lo sonu;thmg With h1.s raw ~a­ that sc•s>~ion with snnw disturbing qut•,.;tiuns that I found lt>ss l'asy to, her of .'Cnwn'::; facult_Y: H~gh .~1- terw~s. H1s raw materials, ·wh1ch an,;\\'t'l'. Why was it, that l'\'l'tt among till'st• excl'ptionally able 1 len Wilson. And w1th h1111 mle i happ1ly inclu~e good fre~hm.en, studt>nts, tlwn· 1\·as <'ftl'll littll' uJHlerstanding llf ur even intc•rpst in the hopes of forty tuxedo cl~d haYe done .then· share by SI~gmg a good many \f tht• .wriou;; is:;ul's of our timl's ·: :\lort> pointedly,. youths who have f~t·esaken then· and sweatm~, and. by lea:·mng :1 whY don't :.;tudl'Jlts l'l'ad mon•, and why don't thPy read mun• widt•ly; ~oy holste1·s and then• beer b?t.tles l~;~rge repertl?l!'e of mterestmgmu- anti dt·L•plv '? 1 am told that it i,; partly our ,·ultun·; little Anwril'ttll j m order ~o. carry on the trad1t10ns sica! _compositions. The group h!f-s. hovs arl' \not n•allv supposed to be inte 1 -ested in hooks. so that o1w 1 of the l:mon College Glee Club. o}' wlll have pe~iormed, at or w1th ,.a;t hardlv l'XJll't't j,jg· bo~·s to hl' \'l'I'Y much at pase with tltL' printPd 1 But, Volkswagen ~ml all •• they (,reen Mo_untam, Vassar, ~Imy­ pu~t•-at ·lt•ast hc·ycmd tlw n·quirl'lllents of assigned rt>ading. lt is I hase not.s.ucceeded m c~I'l'Ylll~ on mount, S~1dmore, Emn:a W1llar~l. not an t.·ntilt•ly ,;: 1 ti:.;fal'tory au,;we 1 •• ~ly in;pn•ssiou of tlw~t· and I t~e.' tra~lt,wns of the .Gle~ .cl~b, Hus~e!l ~age .~md Ehmru,- 11 'f,hl'I.r uthl'r gi!tt·d and ahll· studPuts I kuow rs 111 ta~·t th~tt tlw~· an· \'l'I'Y Cm_on St~le. They hav:, ~nstead, ~.o.~ce~ts ~~.clu?~d ~Ol~len~ s Glot· ,;eriou,; allt!Ut their wDrk, t·\·en .. l thrnk, too ~enuus 111 tl~t· sens~ that, l~a.I~e~ to smg, not on!~ \\ell, but ~~ ·\\\Jt.~ Lh:11~u, ~1do and,Aen.- tlH'Y :wem ot'tt•n consumed \\'lth a comiJU!sJve, ual'l'o\\'lll~ dnvl' tu, \el:l- \\ell. l'<l~ :~lth :::>lndm01e a~Hl. _Emma mastt>r it all bt•caust> thi,.; i;; tlll' \\a\' to ::!Ul't'es,.;. These art• g<·llt·rul- · One wonders how the of't crit- Vfillaid, !1-nd the l\1onte\etdl .tyl::;td- izatit>IJS to which unt• eould l'ite u good many exn•ption;; of l'ourse, · icized sterile soil here ut l\nion r};a}\ With _Yassadr. In .ad 1 dd 1 ~ft' 10 ? Yt•t tlwrt• is pl'e\·alL•nt a kind of prt>-)JrofL·~sioualism that st·t>ms to. managed to spawn such a group. ~ ey ave prepare, s;veta . 1 1 - nte t<> l>t• hustill' tu the l'!His of liberal t•ducation. Life is rt>al, \'OU The answer, like the solution to 'ult and seldm;t per~olmed pieces, must :'fll'l'ialize, am! the future is Ulll'L'l'tain. God knows the future the manifold miseries of the Skid- :iUl'B us the. Hmdem 1 .\~ Sonlfs a~d i~ Ullt'l'l'tain, and thi\ is au agt· uf aBxit•t\'. That is on~ ).fl'nl•ntliza- ·more-Union Orchestra, is simple a enzmer C0?1P 0 S 1 ton .. n Ie- tion that hul<ls. But ollt' ket·ps wishing a ·few of tlw:.;e intt•nse \'oUng to state, yet hard to achie\'e. The 8 GplonseC,, 1 th 1 e audlfencesdto wh 1 cthdth_et II I l . 1 I I l I , I r· I th GJ Cl b h d en u J per orme gree e 1 men \\·uu, n• ax a ,n, 00 , aroull! t wm, samp e mure \\'lll' y am reason e ee u as sucree - ·'th th .·• 0 d'. t . mun· dPt•ply thl' rit·h \'arit•ty that our w\rld and \ur civilization ed where the orchestra hus not in \\ 1 fid edn thu~mUm_. ~e 1 1 recth 1 nt't't•r. realizing some of th<' collecth·e con e a . ru~m \\as on Y e hopes of the musically inclined at fou!th group m etght years .to be Lift• ltst>lf is Fa,ter , Union stems from the relative mv1ted b~ck! a~d the othets all . . . . . . • ease with which vocalists can b(' ~xtended mvltutwns to the group ,. Tlw ~tl.l:lWt•r IH, I suppost•, that ~he pal't' ot .\llll'l'lt'an ht<' 111 the l trained. It takes years to pro- tor retur.n engage!n~nts. At the ,,o,; and hO,.; has l'l'rla 111ly bt·t·O,IH' t ustPr and the d~mand:; madl' on ' dure a competent violinist, vet presen.t tm1e the l mon men have all of u:<. _and pspet·:a~ly on tht• glltl'<l atH! t~l' amh!twus among u:>. l only a few months to turn out a ~entat1ve da~es for concerts <~ur­ an• 111 o1·c• 111 tc·nst•. 1.111s cannot h~lp hut IH• ref !Peted 111 undergraduate' second tenor. That il' why rn- mg the com.mg s!\mester at \a:;;- t•dul'alioll, l'\'l'll as It ha,.; transtomwd what om·e was supposed to 1 ion's Glee Club alwavs in able sar, Connecticut Colleg-e for Wom- lw tlw lPi,;urt>ly lift• of till· l'o]]pg-e prDfl'ssor. \Ve l'annot alter these: hand!', has consistently outshone en, ~;llesle~·: Mary;nol!n.t and th: fads. Pt>rhaps \\'l' ~:an work to bnng them ~. lnt undp~· cuntl·ol,! hei· instrumentalist counterparts, ~01ld s Fau. In add1t1,on, t~P:I ho\\'c•wr. Pl·l·iwp:.;, tor t•xamplP, we can modIfy-not 1hlute-the 1 even thouo-h the instrumentalists Will do the Bl•etho\'t•n ,Jth w1th tigitl n·qui~t·ml'nts of l'l't•dit hlllll':.; lll'Pd(_•d for greduation. Perhaps' have had the benefit of superio;. the A!bany Symphony .. we sl!Uuld n•-p:o;amill<' tht• fll'l'~l'nt fivP eourse load for students. I 1 direction. However, it tak('s an Yifhlle next se~son ~~ alrl'ad~· think that \\'l' shnuld. and I ,;uspt·<'t that w£> will. I almost shudder: especially fine musician who is bemg planned, t~1s one. IS not. yet t11 intrudun• tlw word t\alt•ndar in these• pages. Aftl'r last fall that: willing to call for extra effort and over. The Glee Club will pPrfonn , 1 ·onl ha,; tlw pm\'l'l' to indu<·t• nig·htmares. But tlwre wa,; a g-ood who is willing to direct it to mold at the Annual Concert at, the Mo- dPai of 11\l'l it in that agonizing dl'kttl', an<! a fair·ly wide thoug·h not' a decent group of sem'i-singet·s hawk Club,_and_on l~arent s V{Pek- unanilll<>US !,t·lid that 11·hat till' sPwral <'alt>ndar proposals had in 1 who can put over a ~ong into an, end :\'hen 1t w11l sin~ thl' Fam·e ,·ommon wa~ an appruach to l'Ul'l'icular dmngt• that was in many ensemble whose performance is Reqmem: 11embt;rs _of the College way o\'<'1' du<·. That \\'l' <·nuld not agn•t· on details is no argument characterized by musicianly ap- Commumty are 1!1V1~ed to atteJ?od that Wl' an· opp<~;wd ~o <'hangt•. It is simply that on sober secontl! proach and high quality. l'nion th_e latter, and th1s time they w11l thuughto many \! us fl!ll that etnTil'ular dwnp;P \hould Jli'Pc£>rll', and: got that especially fin(' musician piObably. fi.~d _ th:!llselves pl~as: dPtt·l-mlll£', •·alt•tHI::cr altPl·atJ\ns not \'Jt't· vt·l·~a. when it let Professor Wibon drive antly ~'':' 1 P~ lSE'd \\ 1 .th the cahbel 'out of the North. of the ~mgmg. Umon has alwaxs Beyoml Time I sung with good groups from Sk1d- l With Mr. Wilson at the helm more and other women's schools What <·oliPg'l' studtonb beeonw is even mo1·e important, lll'l'haps i the Glee Club has rehearsed it8 which usually sport fine choral or- tlwn 11·hat tlwy al'l'. I am sonwtimes appalled when I see how ver;..: way to th~ p_oint where it can un- g.anizations, but in the pas~ it has littlf.' a collt·g·<' \ducation produe(·~ in the way of critical awareness, dertake d!ff1cult \\'orks and do never ~een able to cons.1stently s .. nsiti\·itv to t'X<'Pill'lll't'. or intt·lligent concern !'or thl' eommon g wd. them more than adequately, where match 1ts female co-performers. · (l~ontinued on Pa~·e 5) it can perform with girls' schools Now it can. For that we are .... , , , , • , , , • .. , • , , , , , , , , , , , , , • T'YT' --j and more than equal their per- proud. I DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118 - 120 JAY STREET t ................ . ....... , .......................... .~.....A!~ Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELlER For reservations phone FR ..d-8917 Shaver Service REPAIRS and SALES ON ALL MAKES OF ELECTRIC SHAVERS Phone FR 4-9741 724'h STATE STREET Friday, April 24, 1964 Guest Column: U.N. Conference By Hi<:hard Sifton Fridoy, April ' A ratlwr this timt•. <in1 \l't him, >'l'l'ills Several weeks ago, m·:uly :2:iOO <lekgatt•s and l't•pre::wntativt'\ from 122 cmmtl'ic>s nwt at Gt•nl'Va to begin threl' nwnths of <liscu:;;- sion and negotiation on world trade pulil'il's. t'allt·d the Cnited ::'\a- tions Ctmference on TrmlL· and Dv\'dop111ent, it is the largP,.;t ll!P<·t- ing of its kind in history and probably the mo,;t l'OlJfu:;ed. The Conference rt•presPnb an attempt by the poorer nution!' n:f the world to ga-in a nwn• f'avorablt• po~ition in international tra1!P. The poor nations are ser•king th(' reduction und, in some l'HSl'S, t-hP eliminuti<m of tariff barrier,; imposPcl upon their exports; they arr also !'\eeking higher p1 ices for their l'XJH1l't cnmmodilin;; and \\'l'ste1·n subsidy for thc>ir industl'ializatinn p1·ogram,;. • 111a!'vel, the di: ,f tht• 1·ank n1 ,.;tt'l'lllll of Alii< llh\ n:aily dlil Widening Gap Dr. Paul l'rebi~eh, a lalentL•d Argc>ntinc> ecm1omisl who direch•u the U.N.':;; Econ01nk Commission for Latin Anw1·ira from 1 ~lfiO to 1963, is secretary-general of the Conference, He has talked and written extensively on the problem of the widening trude gap which faces many underdeveloped countries. The poor na-tions are impo1·t. ing expe118in~ weste.ra industrial goods, the p.rice of which is rising 1 steadily, while the value of thl'ir exports is falling for many com- modities. In 1950, the underdeveloped eountries accounted for 30 P'-'1' cent of ·world trade; by 1960 their share had dropped to about 20 per cent. According to Prebisch, this combination of factors indicate,; that by 1970 the trade gap for those countrit•s will be $20 billion annuallr. Difft>rences and Conflicts The impoverished nations, r~egardless nf' thei1· common cause, an not wholly united at the Conft•rence. There> are several small nations which have attained favorable trade balances through existing en. forced price levels on such commodities as coffee and tl'opical fruits; they are not anxious to press fol' gTeater reliefs. There are many potential conflicts which will undoubtedly become more apparent and grow larger us the Conference progres::;es. In some instances, thest· differences may simply reflect variou,., le\·ds of development :mel differen,t economic structures; in othl'l'>l, tlwy may in\·ohe politit·al differences and ambitions. Soviet Rallying Point One of the problems which will be extensively discussed is that of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Communist natiom 1 are not permitted to enter GATT; the 60 member nations includt· primarily the wealthy industrial countries which are in a position, a' the major buyers of exported goods, to fix price levels. Naturally, th<· Soviets have used this as a rallying point, proposing some form or org·anization which will undercut GATT. Rega1't!less of the propa- g:tnda advar.tage whieh this situation would seem to give to thP 1 So\'iPt t·amp, the communist nations will ultimately have to \put up or shut up\: only five per cent of the exports marketed by the un- tlertle\'l'loped nations are purchased by communist countl'iP~. lioldwalt 1 plt•tlged tn hi 11 will win, an<l nomination on ct l'hanrl' ttl ' Lot!J,;L', s·ili<\P l many primal'il l.!.~tte~. Ho\\'ev~ c·un·ently i'Lllll P.o~~tion !1f s h.l'! :Jll\\l'l ~. In last \1' failed to dl•tn( •• ac;ain;:t ~enal t'l'l'ei\'<•d on] v ~.w ; of: thl' \v Itt•!' votes we ,·anw in third yot ing distl'ir in a candidatf pl'Nlicted 80', William Scot! t\ritcl attemp ,..,nle 200,000 ,·,msidPI'\'tl, tl ,i <'l'tit>ll of Cio In thc l'l' .,fficially entE based on incu :.,:atc•s pled~e< ' J:,·publican sl Thi,; (;oJdwat hc•mled bv fo b\\' flllllt:. I • It has b,• :\!a\' lfi \\'-ith \\'1' 'thi·nk i;; : t<·g·aJ·dlt•s\ ot' fol'nia, thr Y J:, >t' k(• fp ller. Several Barriers The underdeveloped nations face several harriet's in their attempt to attain greater status in trade. Britain's srstem of preferentiul tariffs among Commonwealth nation:;; is one, the polirie,; whieh tht· European Economic Community has established concerning t•xtenwl trade is another. Also, European countries are cul'l'ently unrleq~·oing a round of inflation which, although not serious, will cet'tainly dimi n· :t J'atlwr larg ll:nt>ltl ~tass· m:n~: and th: t11 c:n tn ~OHl ish their enthusiasm for making concessions. The United Stutes i; • - probably more receptive; Cnder Secretary of State George Ball, hPad .At thi:; •·itlwr Hiehat have enough logical choicE t<·ed loser. VI crutir one~ i: these two m: of the U. S. delegation, has offered to lowpr tariffs significantlv f<>J the underrieveloped countries. • Self-imposed Obstacles A~other significant burrier is the condition of the underdeveloped countr1es themselves. Many nations receive vast amounts of j'oreign aid in all forms, yet their economies imprm·e only :;;lightly or even ~vorsen. Govem~nent mismanagement and corruption is rommonplacP m small countnes; an undetermined amount of foreign aid money and govemment revenues ends up in either Swiss or American banks. Last year, for example, the eost of Jiving- in Brazil t·ose 70 pet· cent through g-overnment inspired inflation. As a result of these factors. the industrialized nations may not be able to see a valid moral reason t'ol' gr<tnting considerable concessions especially if such favors, in fact give-aways, endanger the domestic and forPign competitive posi- tions of the grunting- countriP!'l, Exact.ly what the results of the Conference will be is verY un- certain. The poor nations have set forth their demunds hut· it i~ doubtful that they will be answered to their satisfaction. PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS EASTERN AVE. Quick Clean Cleaner WASH 25c DRY 10c 835 EASTERN AVE. Wally's Diner • Home Made Pies Good Coffee • 325 Erie Blvd. Open Daily 5 A.M. 7 P.M. D&J AUTO StRVICE 1372 Union St. BRAKES - TUNE-UP WHEEL ALIGNMENT & BAlANCE Dl 6-9644 Student Sim S-T-R-E-T-C-H JEANS Wheat, Olive & Blue Sizes 2 8 · 3 6 $5.95 334 State St. We gladly Cash your checks ~ <'ially if Gnv< ing hr did in ,, ,;; i '~ I ( April 24-: .\]Hi! 2;;-\ April 26---1 April 27-( AJHil 29-1 AJHil 30-~ :\lay 1-P) RESTAURANT I FOUNTAIN SUI BAR SUPPLIES POL YETHE lENE CELLOPHANE L NOGI s. WHOLI PAF STAllONE! Phone FR 4-4

1 1964 on d.iscus- Na- meet~ ~itions of trade. ases, the they are western directed 1950 to and whic}]. import- is rising com- 30 per about 20 indicates billion ause, are nations en-· fruits; many and these and political dis that t nations include as the form of propa- to the \put up the un- attempt the external ly dimin- States is head antly for oped foreign or even monplace money banks. per cent al.reason in posi- very un- but it is VICE Blue 6 checks Friday, April 24, 1964 Political Scene: G. 0. P. Nominee? By Alon Jeffrey A rather strange situation prevails in the Republican camp at this time. Governor Rockefeller, running as fast as his millions will Jet him, seems to be the choice of practically no one. The number one marvel, the disavowed but desirous Ambassador Lodge, is the choice of the rank and :file. Senator Goldwater, the self-proclaimed ~nain­ stream of American politics, is the choice of Republican pr·ofessionals who really don't helieYe that he'll even win the nomination. Lodge Rhows Strength Goldwater appears to have approximately 550 convention votes pledged to him, including California's delegation which we expect he will win, and is therefore very near the number needed to get the nomination on the :first ballot. Governor Rocekefeller doesn't stand a chance at all in the early balloting, much less on later ballots. Lodge, since he is not an active candidate and has not entered as many primaries as the other two, does hot have many pledged dele- gates. However, he has shown great strength with the voters and is currently running best against President Johnson in the polls. His position of strength is vaguely reminiscent of lhe late Senator Kefauver's. Rejection of Goldwater In last week's Republican primary in Illinois, Goldwater again failed to demonstrate his great popularity with the people. Runn~ng agains,t Senator Margaret Chase Smith, who it will be remembered received only 3% of the vote in New Hampshire, he received around 50% o:fl the vote compared with her 25%. More than likely most of her votes were cast more against Goldwater than for her. Lodge came in third with a remarkable 6%, remarkable because most of the voting· districts had voting machines which make it difficult to write in a candidate's name. More important than Goldwater's missing his predicted 80% by a substantial degree was the trouncing given to William Scott, a Goldwater man, who was defeated in his guberna- torial attempt by the more liberal Charles Percy, in a race that ran some 200,000 votes ahead of the presidential vote. All these factors wnsidered, the Illinois primar~; was nothing less than anotl1er re- jection of Goldwater. In the recent New Jersey primary, in which no candidates we1•e officially entered, Lodge received around 40% of the write-in votes, based on incomplete returns. More important, a slate of three dele- gates pledged to Goldwater was beaten by the regular uncommJitted Republican slate, in some districts by a whopping 10 to 1 margin. This Goldwater defeat might not be significant if the trio were not headed by former Congressman F1·ed Hartley of Taft-Hartley labor law fame. Lodge In Oregon It has been predicted that Lodge will win the Oregon primary on May 15 with a total vote of around 45% (the latest Harris poll which we think is a little high). In this primary all candidates are listed J'egardless of whether or not they are officially running. In Cali- fornia, the voters are faced with a choice between Goldwater and Rockefeller. We expect Goldwater to win; however, we do foresee a rather large protest vote going to the only other candidate entered, Harold Stassen. Assuming that Goldwater carries the California pri- mary and that Lodge will win in Oregon, we expect the nomination to go to some presently undeclared candidate. Nixon Or Scranton At this time, it ·would appear that the nomination will go to either Richard Nixon or Governor Scranton. Lodge simply does not have enough professional support to win it. Scranton appears the logical choice, if only because he doesn't wear the label of a guaran~ teed loser. We think that the primaries to watch now are the Demo- cratic ones in Indiana and Maryland. As we noted two weeks ago, these two may have a great impact on the Civil Rights bill, espe- cially if Governor Wallace makes anywhere near the powerful show- ing he did in Wisconsin. Campus Calendar April 24-Naval Aviation Information Team, Hale House Lounge, 10:00 a.m.-2:00 p.m. Film Series, EE.22, 7:00 and 9:00 p.m. \Last Year at Marienbad.\ Outing Club hosts annual Yale Spelunk in Schoharie. At>ril 25-Fr. Tennis. Union vs. Northwood, 1:00 p.m. Fr. Lacrosse: Union vs. Hamilton, 2:30p.m. Lacrosse: Union vs. Hamilton, 2:30 p.m. April 26--Ecumenical Dialog, Memorial Chapel, 8:00 p.m. April 27-General Faculty Meeting, Nott Memorial, 4:30p.m. April 29-Fl'. Lacrosse: Union vs. Hobart, 2:30 p.m. Tennis: Union vs. Syracuse, 2:30 p.m. Track: Union vs. Vermont, Alexander Field, 3:00p.m. Giology Seminar, Bailey Hall 205, 8 :00 p.m. Dr. John Preer of the University of Pennsylvania. April 30-Student Body Meeting, Memorial Chapel, 11:30 a.m. May 1-PARENT'S WEEKEND. Baseball: Union vs. R.P.I., Alexander Field, 3:00p.m. Interfratemity Sing, Memorial Chapel, 8:00 p.m. Mountebanks: Three one act plays, Nott Memorial, 8:30 p.m. Schenectady Alumni Glen Club Concert and Dance, Mohawk Golf Club, 8:30p.m. One of the many new \authentic\ folk groups. Banjos And Guitars: The Folk Element Rv Paul Sherwin The air hangs heavily and a· The Genius of Dylan spirit of sorrow pervades the at-: None of these emergent singers mosphere of u ;;mall Greenwich of folk songs has had the impact Village coffee house. From out of of Bob Dylan. Dylan is only 23 the darkness emerges a short, years old, but already has an un- aged Negro singer with guitar in canny perceptiveness into the hand. As he sits himself upon a plight of the modern man in our small wooden stool, the only ob- over-mechanized and over-com- ject on the stage except for the mercialized society. An extremely microphone which he moves close gifted writer and singer, Dylan's to his lips, a blue light is directed songs are sometimes reminiscent at his solitary figure. The deep of the blues, sometimes beautiful lines which have been irrevocably and eloquent, and sometimes bit- etched on his face seem to soften ter and caustic. 3 Music Corner: Jazz Notes By Thomas Krellbiel i\lagazines Fail In th~ past f~w years, two of three major jazz ul'ienteJ maga- zines went out of publicatioti. :\Ietronome flopped because it was too much like Down Beat, but withouL the mut·e well known erities writ- ing for it. The Jazz Review was totally different from the other two. Ostensibly, it catered to the more well informed, more \serious\ listeners. This proved to be its downfall. The urob 1 em was not, however, that thet·e were not enough of these well educated people, but that in most cases they probably were better educated than the critics who proposed to further that . education. Lack of Understanding Recent!~· excerpt;; from the Jazz Revie\lo haYe been o.:ulll•cled and published in a book edHed by Martin Williams which is called Th(!l Jazz Panorama. Almost without exception the articles in ths book show a remarkable lack of understanding and (I dread this word) sensitivity on the part of the critics who wrote them. In the cases of the contributions by musicians this was not as true, of course, but there was still a goocl deal left to be desired in many instances-1 As a particularly bad example of the pomposity and shallowness of these articles, Gunther Schuller's piece on Sonny Rollins stands alone. In this effort Schuller dissects Rollins' performance of \Blue Seven,\ one of Rollins' own compositions, and after cutting it up in a great number of pieces, Schuller states that it was a masterful improvisation and leaves it for dead. To be sure, \Blue Seven\ is one of Rollins' finest recorded per- formances, but one does not prove it by writing it out and pointing out which notes of \Vhich bars are related thematically to the open- ing melody, especially when one does it incorrectly as Schuller doe~. Schuller, by the way has established himself not as a critic, but as a practicing musician in both the jazz and classical fields. Perhaps he should do a little more p1·acticing. Incorrect Analysis Leonard Feather, another critic-musician, is little better. In the i~troduction to his Encyclopedia of Jazz he speaks of the improvisa- ti.ons of Ornet~e Coleman an~ Cecil Ta·ylor as not being based on pre- ViOusly established harmomc patterns and proceeds to label this \atonal.\ This is as far from atonality as one can get. The most ancient forms of music known were not harmonic in nature, but wei·e strongly tonal. As far as I know, there has been NO atonal jazz played or composed to date, and I doubt there will be. and a smile quietly plays on llis Perhaps the most desperate and lips as he begins to sing \Candy saddest of all folk music is the Man.\ The man is Mississippi countl'y blues. The solitary feel- John Hurt and he is a folk-blues ing of the exploited southern One could go down a list of the major jazz critics and find ex- singer. The irrepressible quality Negro which found expression amples of such foolishness from all of them. An \almost\ should be of his performance is character- through this medium has been inserted in the above sentence. We still have Martin Williams and ized by spontaneity, humour, and adopted by the youth of many Ira Gitler. These two men a1•e unbiased and have good musical minds. a deep concern for living. By the large northern cities who find Neithe·r of them has had a great amount of musical training but they end of the evening, everyone in themse~ves spiritually disinherit~d have a good intuitive grasp of what makes music. Both write for the audience has understood John by society. One member of this Down Beat at the present time and Williams also contributes to the Hurt and his view of life. Through rebellious generation of \city- Saturday Review and the Evergreen Review. There are others who the 1·hythmic moan of the blues, billies\ is John Hammond. Great- at•e not really bad, but I can think of no others who are really good. he has told his story - what ly influenced by the traditional May God protect us from the Wilsons, the Hentoffs, and the Joneses. ki~d of women ~e likes, what he blues and the rock n• roll em, 1 thm~s of the ~vhite man, and what Ha.mmond has evol~ed a deeply. much ~o our culture and to o~r i nin', Hopkins, Brownie McGee, and he hkes to dnnk. pe1son~l style t~a~ IS capable of own hves. Leadbelly (Hudd1e ·Sonny Terry as well as the music On the \Boom\ in Folk Music c~ptu~·mg the spmt of the st~eet Ledbetter~. the. master of the of so many other great folk-sing- smgers of th~ ear~y twentieth twelve-strmg gwtar, who spent a ers has become quite meaningful The recent boom in folk music century who l~1d the1r souls b3;re great part of his life in jail, was for those acquainted with them. has enabled a numbP.r of outstand- before an u~fnendl¥ world. A list dtscovered by John Lomax and It is impossible to do sufficient ing new performers to continue in of o.u~standn!-g artists who h.ave was the first folk singer to tour 1 justice to such a vast topic in a the tradition of the great expon- parbc1pated m. the recent ;.-evwal the country giving concerts. He single article. Folk music is not ents of this simple and honest of folk. mus1c should mclude was a dark-skinned Negro with a I only an important and creative form of expression. It is unfor- names hke Joan Ba.ez, Dave Van troubled soul who created some of I menns of expression. It is the tunate, however, that most people Ronk, Th~ Greenbriar '!3oys, I.~n ~he best mu.sic that has appeart;d voic~ of a way of life. It is the m·e unfamilial'Witll the true music and Sylvm, Buffy Samt-Mane, m th~ -qmted States. Woodie music of those who feel strongly of the folk. Great crowds of and many other,:;. . Gu~h1:1e, smger, ballad-'!11a~er af!d ~bout life and are caught in the screaming and giggling singers Some ~xpene~ced Sm~ers poet 1s presently hospitalized m mhuman grip of the machine age. such as the New Crunchy Mon- Those w1th an mterest m folk New Jersey wHh Parkinson's Dis- sters and The Insipidy Singers music can readily become ac- ease Woodie has had a tremen- and groups like The Kingston quainted with the great num~e:r of d?us' influenc~ on modern folk Illinois Wesleyan University Trio, The Chad Mitchell Trio, The men and women, ~orne bvmg, smgers, especially Bob Dylan, and rec~ntly announced the following Brothers Four, etc., are merely others not, who got ktcked around can be heard on many records. revised Independent Study Sum- popular singers who have pros- for. years at;d could only express The religious int.ensity, driving I mer Program: All students regis- tituted and stolen from this deep- th.e1r e~per~en~es and. thoughts !hythms ~nd amazmg guitar play- I tered for the Independent Study ly personal and moving art. Amid WI~h the1r smgmg and mstrumen- mg of Blmd Gary Davis, the mar- i Program must attend a one week this swarm of mediocrity have ap- tabon, through records and per- velous flat-picking and sincere 1 intensive program held on the peared a few exciting and talented sonal appearances. W,e owe a voice of Doc Watson, the tremend-, campus and must, during this individuals who are cm·rying on in great deal to these rovmg Amer- ously honest and moving blues of· time, room and board on the the tradition of \soul\ singing. ican minstrels who have added so men like Big Bill Broonzy, Light- I campus. RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featurinq: HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties - Try Our lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week Y t f f f V f t T T f 'f' T Y -T T '¥ f t -i f t V T 'f Y T 9 'T ¥ Y t f f t + f f t t V '¥ Y T T T UNION INN ( 517 UNION STREET ~;;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;~~=~~=~~=~=:~=~=:~=~~=~~~:;~~~:;:;~~~:;~~~:;~~~~:l~f-0,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·--~·~·~- RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES BAR SUPPLIES POLYETHELENE CELLOPHANE DRUG SUNDRIES NOTIONS NOVELTIES RENTALS: GLASSWARE DISHES SILVERWARE J. NOGEE & SONS, Inc:. Successor to S. MORRIS & SON Established 18BS WHOLESALE DISTRIIIUTORS PAPER-PAPER BAGS STATIONERY- SCHOOL SUPPLIES Phtme FR 4-4429 - 28·34 N. Broadway Schenectady 5, N. Y. STORE THOSE WINTER THINGS NOW - Take Advantage of the Storage Facilities· at Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VAN VRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5294 and have them ready for next year when you return. Cleaned and Stored at Reg.ular Price. Jay Jewelry Co. 315 STATE STREET Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. Arnold Fisher '50

1964 Friday, AprH 24, 1964 PoUtica-1 Scene: G. 0. P. Nominee? A ratlw1· ~tnmgr> situation pn•v:tils in tlw H•·publi<'all •·amp at this tinw. Cinvc•t'nol' ){o('kt>l'l'lil'r, running HS f'a~t a~ his millions will lt•t him, >'l'P!11s to lw till' l'hoit'<' of nradindly no onP. Tl·tl' numl1t•1' om• tu t i Vl'<' discus- ~a­ llll'Pt- of II tmr!P. thP arr \\'PsteJ·n ' 1 nat•vel, the <lisavo\\'Pd but <IP~irnu,; Ambassador Lodg-L•, is th<· t·hoi<'l' td' tht' rank and filL·. Sl''!Hitor c;oldwatl•l', th~· S!.'lf'-pnH·l:tintl'd )!laia- ,;tl'l'all! of :\mt•til'al! pulitics, is tlw c'!wit'l' of Rl·puhlil':tll> profl'ssi,ltals I\ h\ t·<·.all~· don't ltt·l·it•\l· tlrat lw'll t'V<''JI win th<· t<tl1Hin:<li»ll. directt>J l~l:iO to ked and which . imp~t·t- 1 1\1~111~ ny cum- 30 Pl'r 21l 0 billion al'L' nations en- fruits; many rent and thes~ :md pulitit·al Lodg-(' Shows Strength (~oldwatr 1' appl'ars t\ hal'<' .appruxintatl'ly ~.iio t'tti!Vt•ntioll \ ntt·~ pll'tlg·ed tn him, including Califur·nia's delPgation \\'hieh \\'f' t'XJll'l'l he will win, and is tlwrl'f'mp \'l'I'Y near· the numbt·r· llL'erled to gl'l thlc' nomination on tlH· fir,;t ballot. (;o\'P1'110l' HnrPh•f<'llPr doPsn't ~tand ;t l'hancP nl all in tlw l'atly balloting, much It'\\ on latl·t· ballob. Lotlg<', s-incl' ht· is not an actin• candi<late and has n\t t•ntr·n·d as many primal'il.':< a~ the otlwr t\l'o, dr.rs not haYP n1any plt•dged d··ll'- gate,;. Ho\\'evt·r·, h<· has ~hown ~n·at strPng-th with ihl' vott·rs and i::-: <'U1'1'enlly i'lllllling bl'st against l'residt•nt John,;on in the poll;.;, Hi>< ll.\\·~liun ~~f sln•ngth ;s \a~lll·ly n·mini,;cpn\ ,J tilt' !at·· ~··natot ,.,.,., :Jll\'l'l \· Ht>j!'ct.ion of (;olrlwater l n la,;t \\'I'L'k's Hepublican primm·y in Illinoi,;, liuldwatPr ag-ain failed to <h·monstrate hi~ g'l't•at popularity with the peoplP. Runn.ing '\ again::-:t Senator :\Im·garl.'t Chase Smith, who it will be t'<•membered n·cei\'<'d onlr ;~'; of' thl.' vntt> in New Hamp,;hirv, hP recl'in•d around :,w; of: thl' votl' enntpan•d with lwr 25',;. :\lol'l' than likPly most of Itt•!' votes \\'el'l' l'a::-:t lllOl'<' ag-ainst Goldw:ttl'l' than fnr hl'l·. LodRP t'Hilll' in third \\'ilh :l l'l'lll:1rkab!P (i';, l't'llllll'kabll' hl'l'llUSl' l!lost of tlll' ,-,t ing distl'il'ls had Vtlting machines whieh make it dilfieult to wriiP in :1 candidate's naml', :'.l<we important than liold\\'ater's missing- his prNlieled 80';i by a substantial degTee was the trouncing gi\'Pn to William Scott, a Goldwater man, who was defeated in hi~ gubcrna- t•>rial attempt by the lllt!l'l' libl•ral l'hmle::-: l'en·y, in a race that ran \\nre 200,00ll vutes uhead <•f tht• IJI't>sidential vute. All lht•S<· factm·s ,·,msidl'l'ed, the Illinois p11 mat y \\'as nothing- IL·ss than another ll'- jt•l'ti()n of Golrlwalet·. .1;. In thC' l'P<'PIIt NI.'W J l'l':;;l'Y primary, in which no L'amlidatp;:; were officially entered, Lodge received around 40'.i- of the write-in \'otes, based on incomplete retums. }lore important, a slate of tht·l'e dl.'!e- :..:ate:-; pledget! lo Goldwatrr wa\ beatPn by the reg-ular unrommJitted is that nationf ' includt· a> thr· form oJ ' lt•·publican slate, in ~o!lll' district~ by a whopping- 10 to 1 margin. This (iohlwatl'r <It-feat mi~ht not be ::-:ignificant if tlw trio \\'NI.' not bt•u,!ed bv fnrnwr <'ongn•,;,.nwn Frerl H artkv nf Taft- H:n·tJpy ]a hnr propa- to th\ ' \put up the un- attem pl ferentiul ·hieh tht· t>Xtemul rler~oing I • bw famt:. · · Lodge In Oreg-un It has b,•(•n pn~didetl tl1at Lodge will win the On·g·on prinwry on :\lar l:i \d>tl1 a total vote of around 4;,~; (the latest Harris poll which \tt• 'think is a little hi~h ). In thi,; primary all l'andidall•>< art· listt•d tt•ganlll•s>< of whl·th<'l' or not tlwy an• officially runnin~. In Cali- fornia, thr voters an• fact•rl \l'ith ~~ choice betwt•en tiuldwttll•l' and ltoekl'i'Pllet'. W r- l'Xpt>t't (;old water to win; howcvl.'r, we du forPse~ :1 r·atlwr larg<• p!'OtP~t \'ntl• going to tlw only otht•t' t·undidate entered. lhnolrl Sta~>ie!l. A~;;mning that tioldwuter cunies thl.' Calit'omia pl'i- lll:try un<l that Lod~e will win in Oreg-on, \\'e expt>d the lH>I!lination t\ c·o tn ::-;onll' !Hl'st•ntly llllfleclared candiclatl.'. One of the many new \authent.ic\ folk groups. Banjos And Guitars: The Folk Element Rv Paul Sherwin 3 Music Corner: Jazz Notes ~ l'nfot·tunately not all ruu,;iciatl,;, jazz or oth<·IWi-'<', ·Ellington',; <'ljll:tlliJnity in tht• t'at'l' of ad\·t'l'ct' t•titit·i>tll: hav<' DulH· \\\'t•ll i I' I 1 worrk•d about p.·oplt· 1\'ho dtnt't undt•rst.utd ... \ It i\ t•vt·n nwt·•· . 1 unfortunatL' that ·'\ \ t•ry nt~u.y nitin;, <·.-pt·t·i:dly in !Itt· jazz \\· .. rid, do not undL•rst:md. 1 :Vlagazinl's Fail 1 In t!H· ]J:t:-t ft•\\' ~·,·ur,;, tw\ of thJ'•·t• ll!ajur j;tzr. ••I i<·tikd tllaga- ' zim•,; \Vt'i1l <>lit of Jllildit-ati\ll· ''h•trunumt• fl\t'i\·tl l•t•t·au\<• it \\·:·1\ t\\ 1 nttlt'h lik•· Do\\!l Beat, ln1t 11itl.uut tit•· 111\1'' '\·II i<~<~•\11\1 t'1itin. \\tit- 1 i!l•g fur it. Till' .Ia/./. l~t·\i<'\ \\:<'-' t .. t:-dly diff•·1t'l11. ft·,nl tilt• .. tltt·r (\\·<>. Ostensibly, it cat<·t·l'd to tlw ntol'<' \n•ll inJornwd. lll\i''' \ listene1·s. This Jll'\\'\d tn lw it:-1 downfall. Thl' ur\h'<'lll \\as nt~t, itlllll'\<·r, that tht·i<· \\<'ll' 11\t t'l1\ligh \'' Uwst• wdl t•du~aLl·d pt·\ple bu-t that in tll\.'t .-a,;,•,- thl'Y prubaloly Wei'P bettt·r •·ducatt·d than tit,- critit·.- who pr\P''·''·'I t\ furtl•t·r that education. Lack of t•nderstanding: l~t'l'l'llth ''.\tt·Jpt. .... frt•trt tJJ .. Ja;/. Ht•\it.'\\· ;;a\• ·\Tl! t••~:~-,·tt··l :1n•! publishl·d iri a bt~ok cdit~:d by :\Iartin William\ \\'hil'i1 is callt·d The Jazz Panorama. Almt>,;t withttu\ <'Xt'<·ption tlw ;trtidt•s iu tit~ hr,>l\ show a l'L'IIlUI'kabl!• l:tl'k of undt•rstand·ing· allll (I t! r•·ad t.h is \Yon!) sensitivity un the part uf the nitics who \\Tott· tlwm. In the nt:'t'>' of the contributions Ly l!ltbician~ thi,; \\'U=' th•t as trut•, of eour·~··· but th(•J't· \\':t=' still a g-t>od rlt·al ll'ft tn bt• d .. ~ir<·d in tnany illstulll't·,; 1 As u parlicubdy bat! <'Xampl<· ttl' tlH• po111p\\ity and :-hallt~\\'Jit•s, . of thes(• articles, Gunther ::-><'hullPr's pi<•t't• ttl! ~onny Hnllins stand, alone. In thi, effort Sehullet· rli~>ed~ Hollins' p<·t·fnl'll!UI!Ct' of '' Bltll' SP\'l'll,\ otte of Hollins' o\\'11 compositions, and aftpr t•uttin~ it up in a gl't·at l!llll!lwr of pi<'t'L'~. ;-;l'hullL·r stall's that it \\:t- ~' lll:t,.;iv1 ful improvisation and leaves it for dear!. 1 I To bl• ,;un·, \Biut> :-;l'\'l'll., is Oil<· ,f ltollin,;' finest n•conlt·d ]ll'l'- The air hangs hl'avily and ~~ The Genius of Dylan I fonnanc<·~, but onr• dol',; not Jli'O\'P it hy \\'ritin~ it r>ut :tiHI pointing spil·it uf :-;tJI'l'O\\' pL·t·vadt•s tht• .at- :\one uf thl'se l'llll'l'~ent \ingL·r:< \ ~·ut which notl's n_f which baL.; Ul'<' n·latt•d tlwmat il':tlly tn tlw opt•tt· Jnu,;phere uf a :-mall (in•t'll\\·ich of folk song-,; has had the tmpad · mg· nwlody, Pspl.'ctally whl·n unP del(',; it inr,rn·•·tl\' a, ~dm!J,·t· dt>e>~. Yillage ~offeP hDU:<l'. Frt>lll out of of Bob Dylan. Dylan is only ~;~ Schuller, by tlw \\'ay has c•,;tabli~hP<i hims•·lf not ·a~ a <'l'itic, but a,; the darknt·~s L·mel'g'l'S a short, yl'ars old, but alrl.'ady has an un- a practicing musician in both thl' jazz and l'la~:<it·al fipJrk I\•rhnps ag·l·d :\L•gro singer \\'ith guitat· in canny pe1·ceptiveness into the hi' should do a littlP morl.' practidn~. hand .• -\s he sit,; himself upDn a 1 plight of the modern man in our small \\'ooden stool, thl.' only oh-' over-mechanized and over-rom- .kd <Ill tht· stag•· l''\l'l'jlt for thL· ll!erri:dizerl society. An l'Xtl'I.'Hll·ly ntit·rophont> \\·hirh lw mm l'\ l'losl· ·gifted \\'riter· and sing-e!'. Dylan':-; t<> hi,; lip,;, a blue light is din·clt·d ::-:ong-s an• sometimes n•miniscl•nt at hi,; solitary tigurl'. The dt>t•Jl. of the blul's, soml.'times _bt•autif_ul lim·s \\'hil'h han• bP('n ilTl'\'orablv antl eloquent, and snnll.'tll1ll'>' brt- l't<·lwd on his faee Sl'<'lll to softeit · ter and caustic. LPon:ml Ft·ath<·t·, arwthPr critic-musit·ian, i:; littlt• lll'tl<·r. In tht· illlrodtwtion t\ his Em·yL·lopPdia uf Jazz h·· spt·al;s of thv itnpro\ i,a- tion>< of Omette Ct>lPmau awl Cecil Taylrn· as not bei11g- bast•d on pn•- viuu~ly •·:-<tahlisht·d hurmoJJic patll'l'll:i anti pt t)('l't'<b t\ ]a),e[ this \atonal.'' This i,; as fa1· from atonality a,; rlll£' c;m )!.'t•t. Tlw 111n,.;t aurient fm·m,; of music kuown were Pot harnH>nic iu na tun•, but \\'l'l'<' ::;trongly tunal . .-\,; far as I know, tlwn• has bPl'n :\0 atonal jaz?. played or composed ttt datL•, ami I dnubt thl•n• will bt•. JT dimin· j; ' · hl'ad fut :\ ixon Or Scranton .At this timP, it would appear that the nomination will go to t·itlwr Hichard ~ixon or Gm·crnor Scranton. Lodge simply dm•s not have enou~h professional ~upport tn win it. Scranton appears thr lu~ica! choice, i.f only hrcause he doesn't \\Tar thP labPl of a guamn- t<·ed losrr. We thin!<: tha.t the primar·ies to watrh nnw ai'P thP ])pnJO- cratir one!' in Indiana :ll1rl :V1arvlancl. As \\'(' notecl two wePks ag-o, these two may h:tVl' a gn•at ir)lpact on the Civil Rights bill, <>spe- Orw could g-o down a li,;t of th<• majoJ' jazz critic,.. anrl find t•X- amph•s of such foolisluwss fr·om all of tht·ln. An \almo:<t\ should bl' in,;l·t·tl·d in tlw abow st•nteiH'l'. \Vl' ~till haw :\!arlin \Villiarm; :mu Ira Gitler·. The,;l• t \\'t> men ~ll't' unhiasPd and hav•· gn\d musiL·al mind:-:. '\'eithl'l' ~>f tlwm Ita,.; had a gl'l'a.t amount of ntu,;ical training hut thl'\' han• a g-on<l intuitil'l· grasp of' \\'hat makP~ mu\k. B\t h \1'1 ill' ft ;r llown H~at <tt tht• Jll'l'»<'llt tirm• and \\'iiliam~ al:'o t't>lltrihutt·,; to thl' Saturday Ht>\it'\\ and tlw Evt<rgl't>t•n lh·\·ie\\. Thl•n• an• otlwr,; whu are no,t really bad, but I l'an thi~k of no otht·r,; \l·ho an· n·ally good. :\fay (,o~protect us from the W1lson~. thP H('ntoffs, and tlll' Jonl':-<Ps. and a ::-:mil(• quietly plays on his· Perhaps the most despNatP and lip>< as he begins to ,;ing \C'antly ::-:addest of all folk music is the :.Han.\. The man is Mississippi i country blues. The solitary fPPl- John Hurt tmd he i,; a fulk-L1 ut•s, in!-'; of the exploited suuthl·rn sing<>r. The inPpre,;,;ible quality ::--:egTo \\·hich found L•xpression nf his performanL't' j,; eh:u·acter-. through this medium ha,; been iud b~· spontun~it;y •. humour, ~tlld I adoptlc'd by the ~;o_uth of many a dt·l')l coneern lor hvmg. By tht> 1 lm·ge northern <'!ttl'S \\'ho find t>nd of thl• l'\'elring, e\'l·t·\·one in. them,;e]vt•,; :spiritually disinht·rited tlw audil'!H'<' has Ull<h-t·:<to;,d .John i by society. One member of thi.s Hurt and hi:> view of life. Through! r<.'hellinus generation of \city- the rhvthmie moan of the blUt•::-:, billies\ i:;; John Hammond. Great- he has tol(l hi,; ::-:tory - what 1 · ly infiueneed by the traditional kind of women he likes, what he blues and the t·ock n' roll em, think~ of the whitt• man, and \\·hat 1 Hammond ha,; (•Vol:l'(l a dl·eply. much to om· culture and to f>Ur Iw likes to dl'ink. 1 pl't'sunal :;tyle that JS capable of own lives. Leadbelly (Huddle nin', Ilnp:,ins, Bmwnit• :.'II .. Gt>L', and Sonny T <'ITY as \\'l'll as the musi~ of so many othe1· gt·eat folk-sing- PI',; has beeome quite m<>aningful fur tho::;e :tequain trd with tht•m. oped or even money banks. per cent factor~. reason in pn><i- un- it i~ ~ cially if Govvmm· Wal!ac•p makrs anywhrrP lll.':tl' thP pml'l.'rful ~hnw­ ing hr did in Wisconsin. Campus Calendar April 24-~aval Aviation Information Team, Hale House Lounge, 10:00 a.m.-2:00p.m. Film f\el'ies. EE.22, 7:00 and 9:00 p.m. \La::-:t Yl.'lll' at Mal'ienbad.\ Outing Club hosts annual Yale ~pPiunk in ~chohnriP. .\]Hil 2:i-Fr. Tennis. l'nion \\· :\orth\\'oorl, I :OO p.m. Fr. Lacrosst•: Cnion V!':. Hamilton, ~::lo p.n1. Lacrosse: t'nion \':-1. Hamilton, 2::lO p.m. .. , , capturing· thl' spirit llf the street Ledbetter). the master of the On the Boom 111 Folk :IIusic 1. ,.; 1 ·. 11 !!:\t·-.· ,,f th\ \ t\\'l'lltt'l•th .. ' \ ' ' twelve-stl'ing guitar, who spent a Th!.' rl'cent boom in folk mu~ic cPntury who laid their soul,; bme great pm·t of his life in jail, was has enabled a numbPr of oubtand-' before an unfriendlv world. A list disco\'t•ncl bv John Lomax and inp; new pel'formPI'::-: to continue in; of outstanding artisb 11·ho have was the first folk ~inger to tour· the tradition of the gn•at l'X!.H>n- · partieipatl'd in tlw recent redval the country giving· ronl'l'l'h. HP rnts of this simp!!.' and honest of folk music should inelude was a dark-skinnl'd ::\egro with a form uf expression. It is unfor- names likl.' Joan Baez, Davl.' \'an troubled soul who crl'all'd ,;oml' of tunate, howe\'1.'1', that most people Honk, The Greenbriar Boys. Ian the best music that has appeared at•e unfamilim with the true mu~ir and Syhia, Huffy Saint-:'1-Iarie, in the United States. WnO<lil' of the folk. Gn•at crowds of, and many other,;. Guthrie, singer, ballad-maker an(] ~neaming- and giggling- singers: Some Experienc('d Singers poet i:; prl.'sently hospitalized in such as the :\P\\' Crunch~· :vlon- 1 ThoSl' with an intPrest in folk ~ew Jl•rse\' with Parkinson's Dis- sters and The ln:;ipidy Singers !music can readily become ac- ease. Wo~die has had a trenwn- and ~roups like ThP Kingston i quainted with the gTeat number of dous influl.'nce on modern folk Trio. The Chad :\Iitchell Trio, The 1 men and women, some living, singers, !.'Specially Bob Dyl:m, and Brothers Fom·, etc., are nwrely i others not, who got kicked around can be heard on many rerords. popular singer;; \\'ho han) pros-, for years and could only expre,;s The religious intensity, drh·inp; titutt•d and stolL•n from this deep- 1 their experienrt>s and thoughts rhythms and amazing g-uitar play- ly per,;onal and movin~ art. Amid, with thdr singin~ and instrumen- ing of Blind Gary Davis, the mar- this swarm of mediocrity have ap- tation, through n•r•mls and per- velous flat-picking and sincere 1 pearrcl a fP\\. exciting and talented sunal appearanrl·s. WP owl' a voice of Doc Watson, the tl'(•mend- intlividuuls who arP eanying on in great (leal to these rnl'ing Antl'l'- ously honest and movin~ blut>s of thl' tradition of \soul\ sing·ing. ican minstrels who haw added ,;o men like Big Bill B1·oonz~·, Light- It i\ impo~sible to du sufl'il'it•nt justic!' to such a va,;t topic in a sin~le article. Folk music i,; not on!~ an important ami l'l'l.'atin• llll':llts nf exprr·ssit~n. It i..; tlw \'oirt• of a wav of lifP. It is thc> mu,;ic of tho,;t: w.ho fl'l'i strongly about life and an caught in tlw inhuman ~rip of the maehirll' HR'l', Illinois \\\·slt>va.11 L'niVL•rsit\· l'l'.t't'lltly <tl!l!t>U nc:•d tlw follo\\'ill~ n·Yist•d Indl'JI<'IIdt•nt Study ~tmt­ llll'l' Prog-ram: All ,.;l.udt•n\s n·p;i:-;- tt·rl'd t'ut· thP lndl'Jlt'IHlt•nt ~tud~· l'ro~ram must attl'nt! a onp \\'<'l'k intL·ru,;in• ptug·ram ht>ld on tlw c·:tm pu~ and mt~:<t. during th i~ tinw, 1'\\111 and h,~·tl'<l \ll tlw UilllJIU:-;. ~ Ap1·il 26-- l•:cunwnical Dialog, 1\lt•morial Chapc·l, 8:00 p.m. April 27-Genentl Faculty :\lt•eting-, :\ott :\Jpmnrial. 4::\ll p.m. April 29-Ft·. LacrosHl': l'nion \'S. Hobart, 2 ::lll p.m. Tennis: Cnion vs. Syracuse, ~:;lO p.m. RITZ REST AU RANT UP Blue checks ,. i Track: Cnion Ys. Vermont, Alexander Fil'ld, ~ :OO p.m. Giology S('mina1·, Bailey Hall 20fi, 8:00 p.m. Dr. John l't'l'l.'r of the Cniversity of l't>nn,;ylvania. AtHil 30-Studenl Body Jlt>eting, :vlPmol'ial Chtqwl. 11 ::W :1.111. 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featurinq: HOME STYLE IT AllAN FOODS, STEAKS, I' UNION INN :\lay 1-P ARE~T'S WEEKE:-iD. CHOPS, SEAFOODS Baseball: Union vs. H.l'.I., Alexander Field, :l:OU p.m. Interfratemity Sing, :\lemorial Chapel, 8:00 p.m. :\Iountebanks: Three <me art plays, Nott Memot·iul, 8:30 p.m. Catering To Small & Large Parties 1 517 UN ION Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years ' Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap 1 ~ STREET Schenectadv Alumni Glen Club Cnnc<>rt and Tlam·P, Mnhnwk G~lf Cluh, 8::w p.m. ~~~~~~~~~O~p-en~7~D~a~ys~A~VV~e~e~k~~--~~~~~~ ·•••••···•••·•••••• RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT DRUG SUNDRIES FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES NOTIONS BAR SUPPLIES POL YETHElENE CELLOPHANE NOVELTIES RENTALS: GLASSWARE DISHES SILVERWARE J_ NOGEE & SONS, Inc. Successor to S. MORRIS & SON Esloblished 1 BBB WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS PAPER-PAPER BAGS STATIONERY- SCHOOL SUPPLIES Phone FR 4-4429 - 28-34 N. Broadway Schenectccly 5, N_ Y. ~~-,.....'_~:------~~----------_-~-----~- --~~---~--~-- ______ ___.,:,~:I I \1 X STORE THOSE WINTER THINGS NOW - } \ y l' ; ! y Take Advantage of the Storage Facilities at ,. ~ ~~ \1 i Dambrose Cleaners \ \ l i X ~~ I X and have tl'lem ready for next year when you return. X X Cleaned and Stored at Regular Price. FR 4-5294 1 517 VAN VRANKEN AVENUE ~ i tr...---------------~J oft\:-<>-<><>-<>-<>-~>-<>-<>-<'::->-¢--<>-<>-<>-:>-<::..-:-c?<---<;:--,.:-:.---:--'.---.--~'>-C'=~:-:-:~-~~-~ Jay Jewelry Co. 315 STATE STREET ::lJiamondd ... Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. Arnold Fisher '50

4 <lrnuror Published Fridays dur-Ing the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na- t ionaJ Advertising Representative: =-:at ionai Advertising Service, Inc .. College Publishers Representative. 4.20 ~iadlson Ave., N. Y. C. J·:,Jitonn I Office. Old Gym. lln!on College. Publication Office, Sche- nectady Printing Company, 602 llroadway. Bnterel In the Sche- nectady Post Office ns Seoond Class ~Ia•! ~latter. Subscription 1'5c a cop:.·: $3 a year deliverPd anywhere in the enitf'd State-s. SESIOR BOARIJ ·LARRY HOROWiTZ '65 ................. 346-9895 ..... · · ~lARK OI3E:-;ZI::-\GER '6;; .............. 393-9780 niCHAR U ERDOlcS '65 ................ 346-98~9 kOBE:l\T P. HOF.E-'~1.\-X 'GG .. DAVID VOLKMAN '66 ................................................ . RUBI.!:HT t:i. l!OFI•':IIAX 'G;; ............ . HLCHAitD ~IFT0:-1 '66 \\'ILLIA.:II T. W!:->XE '\l .................... Editor-in·ChiPf .. Busi nE'ss 1\tilnager ... :\1anaging Editor ... News I~dttor .............. Sports l~ditor Feature I'Jditor ..... ContrillUtlm~ Editor Adviser The Panacea It is in the nature of men that when they are faced with particularly complex problems they turn their atten- tion to finding a panacea that will solve the problems once and for alL Several years ago this campus was involved in a de- bate on rushing which was similar to the present one. Be- cause the immediate rushing system was weakening the fraternity structure, a joint Student Council-IFC commit- tee recommended a switch to deferred rushing. This, they claimed, would cure all the fraternities' ills, and insure their survival and excellence in the future. The IFC adopted deferred rushing by a vote of 11-6. Most of the campus was pleased. Here at last was \the final solution to the fraternity problem.\ Obviously it wasn't. The ills of the present fraternity system lie much deeper than the method of rushing that is in effect. The panacea didn't work - discontent with the fraternity system persisted and the new generation of fraternity men, not having lived under immediate rushing, placed the blame for the system's wealmess on the rushing set-up. A new panacea was found - immediate rushing - and once again it was thought that all would soon be well. The cycle was now complete. We submit that the value of a particular rushing sys- tem to fraternities has been blown far out of proportion. We do feel, for reasons enumerated last week, that the present system is the better of the two under consideration. We would not like to see the fraternities make the same mistake that they made in 1960. They must not con- sider either rushing system a panacea for all that ails them. A reevaluation of the whole fraternity structure is in order. Changing rushing procedures is missing the point. We wager that if immediate rushing is adopted, in four years the IFC will find it unsatisfactory and will come up with a new cure-all - a proposal for deferred rushing - \the final solution to the fraternity problem.\ Concordy Endorses- I The future of the Student Council lies in the quality of men elected as representatives. The present Council's inadequacy does not lie with President Lawton Morrison but rather with the present representatives. The elections for class officers were run inefficiently and hence the voter turnout was ridiculously small. The upcoming election is of great importance to the future of the Council and we hope that every member of the student body votes. In the Class of '65 the Concordiensis endorses Tom Di Cerbo, Alan Jeffrey, Stuart Morse, Raymond Okafor and John Perra. Di Cerbo was one of the few effective council members this year and deserves another term. Jeffrey and Morse have both been active in the campus community and have demonstrated high levels of competence. The Concordiensis endorses David Braff, .Albert Nah- mias, Richard Sifton, Jeffrey Ratner and John Hausmann for representatives of the class of 1966. We are happy that the class of '67 had 22 candidates in the council primary. It shows an interest on the part of the freshmen that is completely lacking in the other two classes. The Concordienses sees Raymond Pike, Stephen Yohay, Howard Zatkowsky, Martin Pinson and Richard Janney as the five best qualified candidates. and trying· to weakei1 the fl'a- ternity system at Union. ·These accusations stem from a differ- ence in philosophy. We hope that this letter will, if not end the controversy, at least clarify our position. The College years are a period of rapid matlll'ation-socially and intel'lectually. The fraternity at Union plays a vital part in the social aspect of college life, Al- though social life is important, it does not take precedence over the pursuit. of academic excel- lence. We come to college to learn, not to play. We reject the contention that twenty, or thirty, or fol'ty college students can think, or feel, Ol' act like true brothers. Rathel' than delude ourselves in this hypocrisy we try to allow our members the greatest possible range of social and intellectual Friday, April 24, 1964 tween the physical education de- partment and the IUethod of se· lection of the cou.nselo1•s. Ostensibly, dormitoey counsel- il ing provides a means of mutual aid for both the college and the stude11ts chosen. Basically, in retum for upholdi.ng certain re- ' sponsihilities in 1naintain.ing dor- mitory t·egulations, the student receives his room ·free. Appar- ently, then, the applicant must . .,. demonstrate suffident financial need to justify the exclusion of ever :p400 from his y(larly bill. Similal'ly, the administration must , 1 de ~ermine as accurately as pos- s!ble whether thi's student in need of financial: assistance possesses those traits of character and be- liefs necessary to function as rounselot· in a responsible man- ner. Both above aspects of choosing ,, alternatives. By maintaining a large membership, eightv at pres- ent, we are more readily afford- ed a group diverse in background and attitude from which each member may glean that which he lacks. We try to avoid that unanimity of outlook which pro- duces such a stifling effect upon the groups in which it is present. a dorm counselor appear, in prac- tice, not only to have fa,Uen short of the apparent goals, but also Letters to the Editor To the Editor of Concordieusis: was decided that \beyond a reas- I must congratulate Mr. Horo- ~>nable doubt\ immediate rushing witz on his attempt to cover the IS the best system for aU con- issue of rushing. The attempt cerned. was impressive but the results The IFC seems to have been were far from' accurate. The placed on a \powder keg\ by mak- first headline, the IFC policy ing a decision which it mu.st make statement the roll call vote and every year. I feel the right de- the letter' appear to be the' only ci~ion was mad~; fu1·thermore, I pieces of journalism on the front wJll do ~veryth:n.g I ~an to ~ee page untouched by edito1·ial opin- that thiS dec1S1on lS ca!Tled ion The Student Council came out. You can do your part by out. in support of deferred rush- ~akh;g an interest in t.his issue as ing by the slimmest majority pos- It w11I be presen~ed ,m the next sible, Faculty Council action and few weeks by votmg m the refer- its effects are uncertain and the endum. coverage of the Student Council G. Daniel Prig~ore, '65 meeting was very poor. Stud!!nt Comtcll . M rl A , 1 3 h h' f Presxdent of Kappa 81gma on ay, pr1 1 t , t 1rty- our men, experienced in the operation EDITOR'S NOTE: of fraternities and their rushing Mr. Prigmore in his complete- system, met after months of re- ly impartial recounting of the search and a great deal of discus- background to the present rush- sion and decided that deferred ing controversy, has-iuadvert· rushing should be dropped. This ently we're sure-neglected to system was adopted by the IFC, mention the following fact: of its own volition, four years The decision to switch from im- ago. It was to be tried for a mediate to deferred rushing was period of three years, then to be made after au investigation by a considered as to its proven mer- JOINT student counc:il·IFC com- its. Last year due to the uncer- mittee. Apparently the Student tainty of the calendar it was de- Council did have a role to play cided to give the defel'l'ed sys- in these matters then, and thus tem one mot'e year-. This year it the Council's present interest is was voted to return to the old not out of place. system of immediate rushing. We urge the campus to vote The days which followed were for the deferred system in the busy. Mr. Berenson, an inde- upcoming election. pendent, and Messl'B Dopkin and Rheingold of Phi E:psilon Pi would not admit defeat. An emergency motion was brought before the Student Council asking the IFC to reconsider its decision. It was C'harged the IFC had acted has- tily and the Student Council ~houlcl act because the best in- terests of the Student Body were being violated. The vast major- ity of the members of the coun- cil who voted in favor of this motion are membeTB of Mr. Dop- kins' fraternity, independents or freshmen. I charge that these men do not realize what the pres- ent rushing system involves for the majority of this campus. Then, on F1•iday the Concord- iensis was circulated. The editor found it valuable to his cause to remove statements from context, to use parts of sentences, and to urge councils outside whose sphere of influence rushing falls, to take up his cause. Generally, both the membe1'S of the IFC and the Student Council put up with the gross errors in text and mis- quotes found in the Concordy. But I cannot ignore the poor journalism of the last issue. The cub reporter assigned to the Stud- ent Council meeting, whose copy was OKed by Mr. Berenson, must have been deepe1• in slumber than he appeared at the meeting. Not only did he totally- miss the point of a ten minute speech, but he credited me with the speech pre- ceding mine, and has completely baffled me with the source for my concluding remarks. Possibly he was too busy trying to W1'ite down quotations. Later Friday afternoon, I was asked to back down on my stand for immediate rushing, in the best interest of long run l'elations be- tween the student body and the powers that be. I have consid- To the Editor of Coneordiensis: The general apathy of the Un- ion College student body, and es- pecially the faculty, was reflect- ed in the poor attendance at the reception for the Pacific String Quartet last week, held at Sigma Phi Place. The general description of the reception can be stated thus: the sporadic attendance of a couple of dozen students showing di- verse signs of interest, varying from a sincere appreciation of the Pacific String Quartet to stuf- fing their faces with the free re- freshments, and the presence of one faculty member, Professor Richard Hoffman. Seniors, looking back at past receptions, can remember these functions as being well attended, especially by the faculty. Has the cultural level and interests of the faculty dropped so fal' that only one professor had the in- itiative to leave his departmental cloister and attend a reception for distinguished visitors to Un- ion College? It must have been a poor showing, in the eyes of the Pacific String Quartet, to see only a handful of students and a sole faculty member at their reception. Perhaps this is the reason why they stayed only fifteen minutes. A less formal, but better at- tended reception could have been held at the Dutchmen's Raths- kellar, where a number of facul- ty members and students prefer- red to entertain themselves after the concert. It is quite evident, however, that they had no plans to attend any kind of reception, regardless of whe1•e it was held .. We do not wish to withdraw from the Inter-fraternity Coun- cil or in any other way divorce ourselves from campus elements. But we will not allow our pur- pose to be subverted by social pressure. We shall continue to oppose any rule or legislation which makes our aims more dif- ficult to obtain or deprives oth- ers of the opportunity to partici- pate. The College is no longer a luxury for the wealthy. It is a place where capable, intelligent people should acquire important knowledge and develop necessary skills. The fraternity system should realize that its future is in supplementing the function of the present day center of higher education, not in the adherence to an outmoded system. Mark D. Dopkin, President Kappa Iota of Phi Epsilon Pi To the Editor of Concordiensis: One of the more fantastic ele- ments of college administration can be found in Union's system of choosing dormitory counselors. Each spring hopeful counselors-- to-be seek applications from the student activities office, only to be told that they may be obtain- ed, instead, from the office of the physical education depart- ment. This situation. may be overlooked by the forgiving stud- ent as an expected bureaucratic bungling, but a closer examina- tion of the entire dormitory counseling situation reveals more than a casual relationship . be- EXCLUSIVE EUROPEAN FILMS! to have been somewhat :perverted. The dorm counselors· that have taken their jobs seriously and \ performed theh functions in :a responsible mann.er, whether or not certain regulations meet with their or the dorm residents' ap- ·• proval, are few in number. To substantiate this allegation, one needs simply to talk candidly with the counselors, question the resi- dents of any dorm, or, perhaps more convincingly, stroll down the hall of any dorm on some evening, and, particularly in the freshman quarters, observe the ·•~ attention paid to the \quiet time\ of the study rules or smell the coffee brewing in the \forbidden pots.\ However, the significant aspect of this situation is not the laclc of concern over enforcement of rules that are either unrealistic or insulting to the student's in- tegrity or maturity, but the fact that the people chosen to perform as counselors are, almost invari- ably, the so-called campus \lead- ·' ers\ or, mo1•e specifically, the leaders of the \joel'\ group, of football, soccer, baseball, or other areas of athletic activity. It is, ll then, apparently not any happen- ing of fate that a representative of the physical education depart- ment is included in the small group that chooses the counsel- ors. Nor will the I'ejected applicant be surprised when, after answer- ing such definitely specific ques- \' tions as \bl'iefly describe your philosophy of life\ and \what do you feel your responsibilities will be as a dorm counselor\ he ·1 inquil'es about his l'ejection and is given an explanation not un- like that of •last s:pring, when for- mer swimming coach Tony Turn- er replied, \We had a great many applications and the boys chosen were. quite active athletically.'' (Continued on Page 5) \ONE OF THE 'YEAR'S BEST\ -~ewsweek Now Thru Wed. at 1 and 9 117 Mohawk A.ve., Scotia ... 4 'BRILLIANT! A 'TOM JONES' WITH JETAWAY!\ JOSEPH E.LEVINE ~~~~- -Time Mag. (TITLED IN ITALY 'IL SORPASSO\} AN EMBASSY PICTURES RELEASE RECORDS OF COMEDY- JAZZ - CLASSICAL- FOLK AT STUDENT DISCOUNTS TAPES AND RECORDS FOR RENTAL ON CLUB PLAN APEX MUSIC KORNER State St. at Corner of Broadway For three Generations ••• Those Who Know. Have been recommending - Phone FR 7-1112 MAURICE B. WALTER \• Phi Ep Pi and the I.F.C. ered this request and its ramifi- cations for seve1·al day's. The IFC has, by its very nature, a direct interest in certain aspects of the life of a majority- of the student Our appreciation is extended to Professor Hoffman for proving that faculty interest and partici- pation have not degenerated to nothing. However, he appears to be the exception to the rule. Perhaps, in the future, .other members of the Committee on Lectures and Concerts, and more of the faculty in general, will also find the initiative to attend these receptions. HERSHEL Manriue B. Graubart & Sons We are happy to see that the IFC turned its atten- tions to more constructive matters at its meeting this week. The resolution brought up by Mr. Crandall is the best idea we have heard yet to get the Brown Cup back in circula- tion. body. Its time is not spent dis- cussing all the issues of the world; its one and only concern is the betterment of the fratern- ities and their membe1·s. After considering many points present- ed pro and con both systems, it The Brothers of Signi.a Phi To the Editor of Concordiensis: Phi Epsilon Pi has been ac- cused of not being a fraternity 11 3 Vnion Graduates in Graubarf ;Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY The foil« the April 8, was. about tc torial on Pa~ For mat as their arch wholly upon out investiga Freshmen, n• :t decision b: . about house brother. The higl and de-activ: statistics to been made b The mat morally and is high. Cle~ if both mem to the instit Fraterni the t1·agicall for the futu vital area o• a so1uti by sil ate themseh After y ternity grou tensely prac \deferred ru Deferre· t:nion;s fra1 frate (Contin College gra< little and tr theY m·e abl the. special ,;ional or hu • times seem in their ar l sues. As fc too many : matron in cartoon, tel t:l,lJ> of cof Fortune ar and I read way we ge ·Whatever 1 his publica· intellectual tury-and i place-it is on our col that they ~ stimulating ual interes among thej misunderst: that many doctors of keep the Review by like to thh will have something tady Gazet Eget. Gai1 Glu. Steven :E the Union has been • ranking pc Interc• ciation • Coli • Coli STUC ( Boo~ Summer Sche1 B 42~ SC p Agents Fe S.S. Com1

n de- se- d the il jn n re- ' dor- ppar- must . .,. of bilL must , 1 pos- need be- as man- prac- short also erted, have and in a or with ap- ., To one with resi- down some the the time\ the lac1' of in- fact nvari- \lead- the of other It is, epart- small unsel- ques- your \what he and un- for- Turn- many ) 9 ER y'' ·1· I) \l ... •· ~~.n~~~~~!!~~ .. ~~!!~~.?.~~!~~J Elections the April 8, '1960 issue of Coucordiensis. At tlt'at time the campus was. about to switch to the deferred rushing system. (See the edi- torial on Page 4). For many years, Union fraternity men have watched askance as their archaic system of immediate rushing, which is based almost wholly upon mutual deceit, has forced them to accept members with-' out investigation and consideration that this important task requires. Freshmen, new to college and fraternity life, all too frequently make. :t decision based on a fleeting glance, a few short words of rumor :.thout house \X\ or house \Y\ and a chance first impression by a brother. The high rate of fraternity attrition resulting from de-pledging and de-activating reveals only part of the sad stot·y. There are no statistics to tell us how many misfits and unhappy matches have 1 been made between hol!Se and member. The matchmaking system is outdated and ineffectual. It is both morally and practically disastwus for both mates. The divorce rate , is high. Clearly, a new system of \mate selection\ must be employed 1 if both members of the marriage are to· survive and to be of service to the instit·ution to which they owe their loyalty. . Fraternity members, realizing the cumulative weaknesses which the tragically outdated immediate system has caused and fearful for the future of their houses if they handicap themselves in the vital area o·f self-perpetualization, have at last banded together to a solution which would strengthen their houses and secure their · by similarly strengthening the body from which they pet•petu- ate themselves and the institution to which they belong. After years of search and months of intensive study, the fra- ternity group has come through with an ideally conceived, yet in- tensely practical plan, to which they have given the descriptive name \deferred rushing.\ • • • ·Genetics Expert 5 To Speak By Carl Feigumbaum Doctor John R. f'reer, Professor of Zoology at the l.Jnivet·sity of Pennsylvania, will give a lecture next Wednesday at 7:30 in the Biology Building. The title of his add·ress is \Studies of the Killing Substances from Paramecium.\ Doctor Preer has his B.S. from . Florida and his Ph.D. from In- diana University. He was a Ph.D. stude11t ofT. M. Sonneborn who is the authority on the gentics of protozoa. His research interests are in the genetics of protozoa · and the cytoplasmic inheritance in Paramecia. Doctor Preer's work is closely in line with the work done by Doctor Henry Butzel, Jr. of Union. Both Doctor Butzel and Doctor Freer got their Ph.D.'s from Indiana and both are accom- plished in genetics. One of the reasons that Dr. Deferred rushing is the answer to the problems which face l'nion's fraternity system because only deferred rushing insures a ..... ~n.n~ fraternity, a strong student body, and a strong Union College. I Triumph~nt new Senior Class officers. Left to right: Gary Brown, Vice President; Carry Morris, Presi- dent; Rolf Kasper, Secret'ary; Trace Hantman, Treasurer. Preer is coming to Union is in order to get together with Dr. Butzel and discuss some topics important to both. Doctor Preer is a member of the Society of Zoologists, the Gene- tics Society of America, the So- cietye of Naturalists. He has had about twenty Publications printed on antigens, killer particles, and 0 S d : like to think that the same rig- 0 tU efltS • • • : orous think!ng t~at is demanded (Continued from page 1) opinion, a ten man Class Execu- ! of students m then· undergraduate . Pl tf h' h tive Council should be formed. The ( Continueri from Page 2) ' courses at a college as good as I Morns rat?' on a a arm w lC ·Council would be primarily a pres- College graduates as a gt'oup read 1lJnion claims to be, would be ap- e:rpressed his conf!denfe an~d dt tigious organization which would little and they rea~ nar~o_wly. ~f · plied to their approach as citizens Sire to hold t.{:e ?ffiC\1· preSl er ' also aid class-class officer com- they are able to thmk cr1hcally m to the perplexing issues that are He plans to kgin ~h ICla ton r 0 • 6 5 munication.\ The publication of he special areas of their profes- all too obviously a part of our newsle~ter to eep e c ~ss 0 t t the Nott News will continue, and ,;ional or business life, they some- world for a long time to come. ~etter mfo~ed on the tmp?rn~ its role as a. media for class news times seem incredibly uncritical And I would hope that liberal Issues rectmg d th:_m. Aya 'tg; ; and class opinion will be increas- in their approach to _larger _is- education can motivate men to m~nts .or ~l'a uadlbn da~:~!i1 ed. A more propitious place and l sues, As for their readmg habtts, intelligent action for the common () 11 1. begld' r y an . ~ Morris i~ date for Spring Weekend will be too many are like the suburban good. For I have not been urg- f r~nme 1 !' e con~erS r?n Week- found for next year. matron in a recent l'!ew Yorker ing dilettanthnn; quite the con- mdking thls Yd!~Jte ~;m~ earlier Seifert believes in a more func- tellingo her ft'Jend over a trarv. Books and ideas and criti- end':- succedf bl tb ks tiona! Student Council which will . of cofee that \Herb reads cal 'awareness may be pleasur- an lrre~e a e se ac · be more conscious of student opin- . Fortune and Sports Illustrated, able in ami of themselves, but Setfet't Seeks Change . ion and student affairs, rather and I read Time and Life. That one would hope that in the end Seifert proposed a number of than of matters oot directly re- . wny we get the over-all view.\ they are translated into programs innovations and renovations f<,>r Iated to the student body as a Whatever place Hemy Luce and of action, into intelligent re- the class of '66. \In <,>rder to gam group and their life on the Union his publications will have in the spouses to the questions that a Iargel.' cross section of class ·campus. Furthermore he believes inte1Iectual history of the cen- arise in all communities of men. the Student Council should be a tury-and it will be an important T..-nes • more representative body, rathel' place-it is a disturbing comment • ~;r • • than one based on the present on our colleges and universities Pht\ Beta Kappa 1 ) \antiquated system\ of represen- that they seem so ineffective in a a (Continued from Page tation. stimulating pet·manent intellect· The plans for the immed}ate Parker Expands Publication (Continued from Page 1) futui·e al·e dubious, howev.er, since Ian t d th b ual i11terests of a high order Parker p s o expan epu - among their graduates. Do ~ot initiations and secret handclasps a maste 1• plan for the e~tn·e ca.m- lication of the class newsletter misunderstand me. I do not thmk characteristic of the modern fra- pus will not be appearmg fol a Sixty-Seven and to continue the that many of my students will be ternity. The chief activity of this while. This plan will include lil;ll Sunday brunches until early next . doctors of philosophy, or will first fraternity was philosophical, new structures which at·e now m semester. In addition he proposes keep the American Historical social and political debate. The the planning stage. Review by theil' bedside. I would scholars soon lost interest in the Expensive Program like to think, however, that they \traditions\ they established, and The cost of the program is \'1'11 ha\e ocnasi'onal r·ecourse to abandoned these to the numerous, f'ft th nd dollars per \ ' ~ less erudite organizations that about t een ousa . something beyond the Sehenec· 1 . 1 1 t year. This includes the archl- tady Gazette and Time. I would sprang up ater, parhcu ar Y a tects' fee, the cost of .the nurse~y Egemeyer Gains Outing Club Post Steven Egemeyer, president of the Union College Outing Club. has been elected to the highest ranking post of two regions of Intercollegiate Outing Club tl'.:l:;ucmtion. These regions in· area colleges such as Vas- ' Syracuse, Colgate, Cornell, The Union College Outing Club been very active this year in over thirty trips. \~~•~·~ square dancing, spelunking were At the present time Club has eighty-four • College Tours • College Study Programs STUDENT & FACULTY GROUP TOURS Arranged at LOW!:ST PRICES Books Now Open for Summer Vacations in ElJrope Schenectady Travel Bureau, Inc. E;t, 1930 424 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. PHONE FR 7-8506 Agents For All Leading Airlines- S.S. Companies - Railroads and Car Rental Cos. Union College. In 1875, women t f th were admitted to the society, and stock, and the plan mg . 0 y; stock. The nursery _whl~h Will soon it also lost its function as a handle t:he year's plantmg 1s chos- debating club. Today, Phi Beta en at the beginning of the year Kappa is an honorary society open from several bids. Thus far, the to upperclass scholars. Tree Land Nursery has done the Difficult to Achieve job itse1f, having submi~ted the In most colleges, the top ten lowest bid each year sn~ce the percent of the gt·aduating class program started. Supportmg the is elected to the honorary society. program is money from t~e Frank At Union, howeve.r, objections Bailey Fund. . Mr. B:=uiey w~s have been raised against admit- treasure1· of UnJOn for ftfty yeaiS, ting all those eligible. There- and was one o:l' the college's larg- fOI·e, it is more difficult to gain est benefactors. ~lso, many ~f entrance to Phi Beta Kappa here the blue-spruces bemg used ~ere than at other schools. It is hoped donated by John Belanger, a by certain faculty members that member of the board of tru_s 1 teesf Union will grant the honoT of Taking care of the ~~ta1 s o membership to more seniors in the project is an unoff1c1al coC- the future by liberalizing the se- mitt~e made up of Profess~r H · lection procedures. Wilham Huntley, Professor . · Another objection often raised Gilbert Harlow, Professor Fre~­ agninst the methods of selection erick Klem_m, and Profes_sor Wtl- is that absolute restriction of the liam T. Wmne. Pro!esso; Hu~l~­ membership to those with the ley stated that a Wld~ dlVeTsifl· highest grades is inequitable. It cation of plant~ was bemg sought. is felt generally, however, that Reasons for th1s are to make .the this system must be retained to I campus as colorf.ul as pos~tble avoid disputes over a1·bitrary fav- and to p~otect agamst the spt ead- oritism by the electors. ing of d1sease among the plants. ~.EWEST 7J..5 Albany Street Specializing: HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE DINNERS AND SANDWICHES TAKE-OUT ORDERS - Union Students Favorite Spot - (Serving Schenectady Since 1921 I Open 7 Days Per Week 6 A..M.- 4:00 A.M. Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian • American Food Discount for Union Students 2()c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. Letters • • • (Continued from Page 4) While it cannot be decided that, among those who qualify financ- ially and who are ultimately chosen there may exist, by sheer probability, some figures of ath- letic repute, it nevertheless leaves the realm of external reality to believe that virt'llally all those chosen just happened to be \quite active athletically.\ It remains with the adminis.- tration to abandon this pen·ersion of administrational choice or to present an adequate explanation and justification for this policy to the student body. If neither is done, one can only interpret the silence as confirmation of the above view. Douglas LaBier '65 Db out that last letter gon wrote ... don;t you think it's time they heard from you again? This time, get in touch the personal way ..• with a telephone call to the folks at home. Telephoning_ is the next best thing to be· ing there. ® ~~~ !~:h!. 8 ~!~~~h~! to choose a committee, represent- ing the Class of '67, which will poll class opinion on important is- sues directly related to the class. Such things as the plans for Fall Weekend would be worked out after the committee has consulted the class for suggestions. Also elected from the class of '65 were Gary Brown, vice presi- dent, and Trace Hartman, treas- urer. Rolf Kasper was re-elected secretary. From the class of '66 Morgan Eames was elected vice-president, Robert Cuddeback, secretary, and Robert DiMichele, treasurer. The class of '67 elected Robert Benjamin, vice president, and George Kates, treasurer. Jack Stokvis was re-elected secretary. CHARLES 604 UNION ST. genetics of Paramecium. The Department of Germanic and Slavic Languages at the Uni- versity of Tennessee has come up with a new summer program for the study of Russian that closely approximates the ideal. 'Under the program, 35 hono1· stwlents from colleges and uni- versities throughout the United States will participate in an in- tensive summer school devoted to the study of Russian and the lJ.S.S.R. under the instruction of native Russians. Opticians SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Phone FR 7-1283 Prescriptions Filled Frames and Lenses Repaired Promptly HOURS: 9:00 5:30 Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES THE BROTHERS FOUR PLUS EXTRA ADDED ATTRACTION LEON BIBB RPI FIELDHOUSE- TROY, N. Y. FRIDAY, MAY 1 8:30P.M. ALBANY· ALL SEATS RESERVED $2 and $3 TICKETS NOW ON SAlE TROY Van Curler Music 128 State St. Copeland Travel Agency Hendrik Hudson Hotel RPI Fieldhouse HO 5-4576 SCHENECTADY Van Curler Music 501 State St. Tickets also available by mail to Fieldhouse PROCEEDS FOR IFC SCHOLARSHIP FUND J 4 ! ,1, 6 f 4 4 6 f f 6 6 f A ! 4 6, 4 • J .4 4 f 4 ! 4 f f 6 ,1, 4 A 6 .f. 4 t 6 1, .1. 4 4 4, ..!. 4 4

WORLD TRADE Page2 Concordy Sports MUSIC CORNER Page3 Put Mark Falls I Hardened Stick1nen Racqueteers Down Hartwick Netnten As Thinclads rr S k ·B T T .. t ..LJ_ann par s ow o rtnt y Tie Stevens; Garnet's Offense By Charles Lasky • Featuring the strong rarkets of! Paul Lesser, Ray Didisheim, and Jack Rowell, Coach Beaudry's racketmen coasted to their first win of the season, defeating Hart- wick College yesterday 6-3. Recouping from last week's up- set defeat at the hands of Harpur, the Garnet overcame the improved Hru:twick squad, capturing four single matches, and two doubles. However, the win was a costly one, as the squad will be without the services of George Master, who is currently playing :first ~in­ gles. Injured in his effort durmg a doubles match, which was sub- sequently forfeited, it is doubtful that he will see action this week- end against the University of Ver- mont and Middlebury College. Individually, the contest !'law Ray Didisheim defeat Ted Bal- comb 6-1 7-5· Rick Apter over- ' ' , k' 6 4 6 '} . come George Jen ms, - , ·-, Jack Rowell outlast Mike Alford, 6-3, 4-6, 6-2, and Paul Lesser de- feat Mike Koss, 6-2, 6-0; the doubles combinations of Didisheim and Rowell, and Apter and Hor- witz, posted victoTies of 6-0, 6-4, and 7-5, 8-6. George Master and Charles Short had losing efforts, losing 8-6, 6-2, and 7-5, 6-4. The efforts against the tradi- tionally strong Vermont and Mid- dlebury squads will see Union as the underdog. However, first year mentor Bob Beaudry, feels that a strong effort on the part of his squad could produce a double vic- tory. Coach Beaudry, who doubles as Soccer and Swimming Coach, is also looking forward to tough matches against visiting Syracuse and Hamilton College in the near future. The season's finals will be against arch-rival RPI in May. The Garnet will also be seeking to improce last year's 4-5 record. Under departed mentor Carl Wit- zel, the squad were victims of Vermont and Middlebury, while posting an easy victory over Har- pur. Time Out: Jeff Fulmer testing serve for Trin- ity match. Captain Jack Rowell, playing his traditional consistent tennis, stroked his way through a tedious three set match. The strength of the ext1·emely well balanced squad showed itself more favorably against Hartwick. Ray Didisheim displayed his fine form and won his first singles match in America. The mainstay of the team has been Paul Lesser who maintains a perfect record in both singles and doubles, losing only 5 games in 2 matches. At Harpur he won G-0, 6-3 and yes- terday ripped through his Hart- wick opponent with an impressive 6-2, 6-0. Teaching loads in institutions of higher education should not be more than three courses a term, Dr. Edmund H. Volkart, Oregon State University dean of faculty, said here recently. Dr. Volkal't was the was the banquet speaker for a State Conference on College Teaching. Ten Angry Men by Dave Volkman Despite everything that can be said for sportsmanship, spirit, guts, and body building it .all goes much easi~r on the team, .the audience, and the trustees tf you are also a wmner. I mean hke, don't get me wrong fellas, some of my best friends are losers, but it just ain't no fun. After a dismal opening to the Spring season the short winter requiem seems far behind and Fall in reverse is converging quickly to summer. The baseball team got off to a good start and has suf- fered from inactivity more than anything else. The lacrosse and tennis teams however, have hoth lost their openers and do not promise a w-inning s~ason. The tennis team is becalmed by mediocrity while the stickme)'l suffer from inexperience and the thinrlads are losing to injuries rather than opponents. Wednesday's lacrosse tie was an interesting study in athletes that are not on top. It was wet and sloppy; the mud around the west goal formed brown l~es above the goalie's ~nkles .. As the ga.me turned into the final mmutes of the fourth per1.od Umon was trYJng to protect a meticulously molded 9-7 edge. After embarrassing loses of 10-5 and 15-1, victory finally seemed within reach. Union then lost one man through a penalty. Stevens shot into the crease to score and Union was left with only a one point margin. Another penalty and another goal later and it was a tie game. With seconds left, Union got one scoring chance. The ball plopped down in front of the Stevens goalie. For a fraction of a second everything seemed right. Enemy defensemen were rushing helplessly back to their goal, as a Garnet player's stick slid over the mud toward the ball. Suddenly the sick realization that fate had imbeded the ball in the mud from which it couldn't be dislodged became apparent. The game went into overtime, with each team defending each goal in two five minute periods. Union scored first and led going into the final period. Stevens got back that goal and the game ended in a tie with Union's final shot never getting shot because a mud- soaked stickman slipped as the gun went off. How did those men feel after putting in their best perfonnance of the year. They looked tired and frustrated. They suffered from all the dramatic tensions, without benefit of a catharsis, like Hamlet walking off into the sunset. It's just no fun not to win. ONE DAY SERVICE CAMPUS CLEANERS All Work Done on Premises PICKUP AND DELIVERY 527 Nott St., Schenectady, N. Y. Opp. Union College Phone EX 3-5472 Timt; Ce;nte;•· Je;w~IEI'S -:YOUR AUTHORIZED KEEPSAKE DEALER 428 State St. FR 4-0183 On a field which was an1de~·----------~~---------------·--- Union's track team plm1ged intq tlw outdoor season in earn- est last week as they met Ham- ilton and Trinity. The Trinity meet was a disappointing loss with a score of 38-97 but many Garnet athletes were beset with injuries while others were absent because of sickness. In Tuesday's meet Union was without the ser- vices of' Woodell, Panoff, New- . begin and Bacon who can usually be (;Ounted on for many points. Trinity's meet did, however, see outstanding performances by Morrison and Ring. John Morri- son put the lead ball to a new College record uf 50' 4 ~' \ sur- passing the previous record of 48' 9\ and supplemented his ;reeurd-breaking toss with two throw;; of 49' and 50'. Although uut plaeiug, Hau$ler put the shot 45' ·il2\ fo1· a very .good effort. deep in mud and water, the var- · sity lacrosse team, playing their best game to date, tied Stevens Institute 10-10. The game was close throughout, with the lead constantly changing hands, but · even in the ten minute overtime period a winner could not be found. This was the varsity's third game, and even though they have yet to break into the winning column, it was a more polished team than the one which lost to Wesleyan 15-1 last Saturday. Quite notireable throughout the game was the hustle and desire ut' the team. On a number of occasions good backing up result- e(l in goals. Pnion Scores Fit:st Dave lUng burned up the track in the mile and two mile runs and was high scorer for the Un- ion team. In the mile, Ring cap- tured first place with a time qf 4:30.1 and then came back after only a brief re$t to take first place in the two mile run with a time of 9:59.2. Union coulrolled the action of the game, and midway in the first quarter Randy Westby con- ,·erte_d a JJass from John Hann to giYe the Garnet a one goal lead. Hann then came from be- J elf Schultheis observing the finer points of defense. hind the goal on an extra man------ play to up the score to 2-0. Stev- ens bounced right back to tie the score 2-2 at the end of the first quarter. In the second quarter, George Laporte scored unassisted. Vic Fazio fed Howie Weidman for a score and Larry Dittleman scor- ed after he came up with a loose ball on the crease. Stevens came up with two goals of their own to trail the Garnet 5-4 at the In the first half of the overtime period, John Hann scored while three Stevens players sat am' watched from the penalty box. Stevens bounced right back in the second half of the overtime to tie the score for the last time, at 10-10. Freshman Victory Other outstanding perform- ances were turned in by Kelly, who vaulted to a fit·st place height of 12' 6\; Wilcox, who threw the discus 138' 7\ taldng- second place; Rattner, who took second place in the broad jump with 19' 57'2\! and Lustig, who finished .second in the 220 yard dash with a 23.7 sec. time. half. The freshman lacrosse team got off to a winning start, down- ing Stevens' freshmen 7-1. Un- Seesaw Battle i ion's _f1·osh were a hustling, ag- • • 1 gressi\\e bunch of newcomers to Thinclads Tie Hamil.on The seesaw batt)e contmued 111 1 th.e old game of lacrosse, but The Hamilton meet was a hard tl~e second half with Steve Hop-I .l1ey ha.Jtll.=d themselves very fought battle which ended in a kms, Mark Hurlbe~-t, John. Ha~n, 1 well for their first game. Wa.re 70-70 tie. Wilcox, Woocell and and Jeff Schultheis contnbutmg --- - ------ _ _c::..__ ___ _ Allen swept the discus event by to Union's goal collecting. Bob 1 throwing the flat plate 1:W, 133' DeMichele led. the def~nse with I Brown Elected and 123' respectively. The team some outstandmg clearmg. performance was generally strong At the end of this regulation Gary Brown, 5-9 guard from but there are more events when game, the score was still tied 9-9. Poughkeepsie, has been elected competing outside so the talent by his team-mates to captain was spread thinner. Hamilton e\·ents and Biddle in the running next season's basketball team at was defeated on the indo n· track e\·ents should give the Garnet a Union College. earlier in the season and the out- very strong team for next year. Despite his size, Brown fin- door tie may be an apocalyptic ished second in team scoring this warning of a difficult season Rochester Host Garnet Tomorrow season, scoring 291 points in 21 ahead. Tomorrow, Union will be com- games for an average of 13.9. He Track mentor Ketz commented peting with the University of connected on 44.5 ~ercent of his on the team, saying that it was Rochester. Rochester's consist- field goal attempts, almost all of \Better than last year but we ently good team and Union's which were from the outside. He have a tough year and we are numerous injuries will make the led the team in percentage of still building.\ Of particular meet a very difficult one. Both free throws completed, hitting note is that in Saturday's meet I Newbegin and Panoff, beset by on 63 of. 86 for 73.3 percent. with Hamilton, 39 of the 70 injuries, will not be able to com- Accordmg to coach Elwyn Ev- points were scored by sophomores pete Saturday and they will be ans, Brown was a key player and 20 of the total points were I sorely missed. Looking to the throuj?:hout the season. \W}th- scored by juniors. Both groups future, the third State Meet in I out lm1_1 w_e wouldn't have achie.v- will be returning next year and 17 years will be held here on ed a wmmng record,\ Evans sa1d. will be augmented by the Frosh., Saturday of Spring Weekend and . ?-'he J?utchmen w<;m 12l lo;St 9 for Such outstanding first year men it promises to be a very exciting-· tls t~11·d consecutive wmmng sea- such as Macabe in the jumping one. ' son m basketball, a feat not ac- ~~~~=:;;;=;::;:::;~;:;~~~~;:;=:;:;:;=;;:;:::;::;:::;:;~:;:;~;:;::;:;::;::;:;::;:::;;:;; ; com pli shed since 1936. It was r • ,. ... • • • • • ' .. •,.' ,. • ' ' • ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ,....., ' • ' ' ., ' ' ' ' •,.... ~ Evans· first year as a coach. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy our Fi.ne Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room OPP. THE BROWNELL GATE ON NOTT ST. OPEN DAILY 10 TO 3 A.M.- SUNDAYS 5 P.M.-3 A.M. ..................... , .......... , ..................... . ~ y Y Y 'f 'f w ¥ t t t V t v·t t t t I f T t f f f Y T Y Y tTY f Y '+ Y Y f Y ¥ f T 't'\ nave's ~quire $hop With This Ad WHITE LEVI'S JEANS Reg. 4.49 - Sale 3. 8 7 STRETCH LEVI'S JEANS Reg. 6.95 - Sale 5.87 OFFER GOOD ONLY 'TIL MAY 2 326 ST A'TE ST Dallr te faiO R • Tue1. & Thur. 'til t TEL 377--1061 •••\•··lililill1illilllllilllllliiiM 4 4 6 6 4 • 6 4 4 4· 4 4 4 4 t 4 4 4 4 A, 4. A 6 j, 4 4. + 4 4 6 6 4 4 4 4 4 4 6 6 4 4 6 + + 4 4 SAVE ON OWN BRANDS! Liquor Store 511 UNION ST. EX3-3111 EX 3-3110 Fuller consistently came up with the f'aceoff to get things started, and he added three goals to the frosh's cause. Howard Goldbs-rg had two goals and single goals were recorded by Dana Jones and Dick Dennison on a fast break pass by Gary Raden. The frosh meet a tougher op- ponent in. Hamilton tomorrow. On Baseball Last Friday the Garnet batsmen suffered their first setback of the season at the hands of a strong University of Rochester team. The loss followed opening victories over Hobart and Pratt. Union's ace hurler Rick Crookes pitched the entire game and was charged with the defeat. With three games under their belts the strengths and weak- nesses of Union's baseball team are becoming apparent. In the game against Rochester the in- field sparkled. Brown and Fike are teaming up to form one of the best keystone combinations Union has had in many a yea1·. With McDonald at third and either Crookes or Marshall at first the Garnet infield is solid. Pitching by Crookes and Brown has been outstanding. The only problem~ that has yet to be overcome is hit- ting. This deficiency became ap- pal'ent in the game against Ro- chester when the Dutchmen failed to hit in the clutch. NAPO~I $5715.00 The Finest Gift VAIL STAR $300.00 AI.SO TO $1800 STYLED BY ~R~e11<e .A perfect diamond is a gift of beauty and brilliance ••• for~ ever. The lovely setting adds to the lasting satisfaction of receiving a genuine registered Keepsake diamond ring. Rlnir enlarged lo liliow detad. Price• Include Fed:ral Ta:c. TIME CENTER JEWELERS Gl COl Pa Vol. 95- Repl ~'or Board By l\:la1 Joseph B. I Meriwether fill vacanc ; Cullege faeult . September. Dr. .James A. Ried !\i1airmun of 1 l'olitical Scie wether will he h and ord Wing ;,oth suLjec:ts i 111 g the 1\!ount Dr. Boanl, Jiana U nivers Scholar at ~ from 1953 to vears at the : Board returne< ·his J.D. degr( Ph.D. in politi ceived his doci At the presE ;,; a professm the Departr Science at Cor \'t>J'non, Iowa. these posts s .D. Professor R the Union fac 1esigning to t ons of pro: ~rience and cl partmenrt in tl of Public Ad1 State Uni,.,ersi .\lhany. He is hatical leave. .\Ieriwether Meriwether sistant pt·ofe~ t;eorgia South hoi'O, Georgia. (Continue Newt .Nomi: • azzo) By A The newly ' the Union Col dl met in c night and cho1 Gary Morris Student Body Perra and Lav · fo1 Unde: the n more money Alan Schw of the activi· and Goneerts (Continu

