• :(!) • Founded at Union College 1877 vo~. 94 - No. 7 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1964 PRICE 15 CENTS the final- the tGlueck ~History Will Discuss Of Holy Land IPhilos Are Union F acuity Salaries :Undefeated 1 T• • 1 . c· . bl· S h t• and ·~ the the 1 goal'- wide. Hebrew Historian to Speak Tuesday Dr. Nelson Glueck will be guest speaker at a Convoca- tion Tuesday at 11:30 in Memo.rial Chapel. Dr. Glueck is President of Hebrew Union Colle~e - Jewish Institute of Religion and noted historian of the Holy Land. His topic In Canada 1 rat · ompara . · e c . oo s The Union College Philomath-:-----~~---- - -------- -·----- ·!' New Salaries ended eans began their huNdred seventy- 111••••••••••••••••••••••••1111 Show Improvement first season last Friday in a de- pos- .. t down ·~will be ''Deities and Dolphins.\ He is expected to talk about hisl$1•------------- .. ----·- bale tournament at Sir George Williams University in Montreal. Alon Jeffrey '65 and Robert Stolzberg '67, compiling an un- defe-ated record, placed fourth of 'the thirty-six teams competing.' The other Union team, comp0sed of Richard Beck '67 and Ted Krei- nik '68, fared less well, managing to win only one debate and plae- I ing thirty-first. yeai·. best soc- to the this s drive and were too per- ividual dif- archaeological discoveries in Southern Palestine. Professor f 1 Norman Johnson believes that the \Dolphins\ noted in the title of Glueck's speech \pertain to some- thing in the Negev.\ f!. , \ Glueck's archaeological studies have brought new understanding of the Bible. He has identified many Biblical sites, such as the boundaries of the kingdoms of til ~~ Noab and Ammon. He is the dis- coverer of King Solomon's copper mines in the Wadi Arabah, and of Solomon's port on the Red Sea, Ezion-geber, which had been bur- ied for almost 2,500 years. . The special I\ team's n the is \a the justi- look feel- Ancient Land Uncovered His studies of the Holy Land .l lo mark the first time that entire countries have been studied arch- aeologically. As a result, he has discovered more than 1,000 anc- 1[' ·.~ ient sites in Trans Jordan and over 500 in the Negev. A native of Cincinnati, Glueck studied for the rabbinate at He- \' , brew Union College in that city. <' ~ He was ordained in 1923. He also .NELSON GLUECK , I British-Style Debate I As is usual in Canada, the I style uf debating was patterned I after debate in Parliament. For · two debates., each team function- I eel as the Government and for the 1 other two as the Loyal Opposi-J tion. The Government proposi- tion in all four debates was: This House is of the opinion that race relations can be improved by leg- islation. ,Jeffrey and Stolzberg defeated two American and two Canadian Universities in compiling their 4-0 record: Queen's College, Univer- sity of Rochester, MeGill Uni- versity of Montreal, and Bishop's College of Sherbrooke. year's look paign. studied and did research at the B b • k• T L'niversities of Berlin, Heidelberg, a 1 tan 0 and J ena, from which he received 1 • his doctorate in 1926, and at the Kreinik and Beck defeated Carleton College ·Of Ontario, but lost to Osgoode Hall, Law School of Toronto University, McGill University, and Harvard Univer- sity. :~ :i th the plae- ,. coun- '\ strong was wind .II made Col- 15-48, J places. sixth econds for ~ mile at not ''\· place of round •i) meets Nov. ego to meet to ') IC-4A taking g and ~ y and IC-4A (cap- rendan John 4) nd Jo- their tomor- seven t\t> Dutch- e. This rea- the drill- have 315 have pen- not od this been in the rank- among is av- il) () ~ ·~ American School of Oriental Re- Gt. ve Lecture search in Palestine. He was ap- Presentation Significant pointed to the faculty of Hebrew (; Union College in 1929 and became its president in 1947. Last December, \Time Maga- zine\ ran a cover story on Gueck. Archaeological Tomes His books combine archaeologi- cal exploration of the religious and historical past with popula1· ,. exposition. Among his books are Explorations in Eastern Pales- tine, Vols. I, II, III, and IV; The Other Side of the Jordan, and The River Jordan. His latest book is •• River in the Desert. He is a member of various or- ganizations, including the Arch- • 1 aeological Institute of America, the American O'riental Society, Phi Beta Kappa, the American Philosophical Society, and the Harvard Club of Boston. On 1 ' Monday night Gluecl<: will speak in Schenectady at the Temple Gates of Heaven at 8:00. ll Box Office 4, Opens Wed, Beginning next Wednesday, November 18, the Montebanks t' will he selling ticl<:ets for \An- dorra\ in the box office in the Nott Memorial from 1 to 5 P.M. and 7:30 to 9:30. They will present the play \Andorra\ l• from November 19 to 25. Students and faculty will be given one ticket free and will be allowed to purchase one more at ll a cost of one dollar. All tickets beyond this, and all tickets for those not connected in some way with the College, will pe $1.50. \Andorra written by .the well- known European playwnght Max Frisch is drama of moral failure. It is ~ microcosm, presenting in (• (· relief the weakness of human na- ture and the \potential for petti- ness in the soul.\ The play is presented through the vehicle of as small boy, Andri, who is played by freshman Kent Kraft. His supposed step-sister and lover is played hy Casey Wolfe, a local girl, and his guilt- ridden father is played by Robert Dickson, another member of the class of '68. Veteran actors include Jon , Trivers, Werner Liepolt, Dave Hall and Rod Tulloss. The cast also includes Edith Norton of Schenectady and Union students Al Fratz, Steve Gilman, Mike <· Halperson, Mark Hoffman, Faruk Hunter, Joe Sosnow, Mountebank president Charles Pankenier, Bill Pell, Don Tucker, Ken Wilkes, • Charles Williams and Larry Wy- dra. William Merriwether, pro- fessor of drama, is a director. The Biology Department will hold an honors seminar and din- ner at Hale House on Wednesday, November 11, at 5:40 P.M. Fol- lowing dinner Dr. Levon Babikian, visiting Professor of Biolog-y, will lecture. Dr. Babikian, Chairman of the Biology Department at the American Institute in Beruit, will discuss the effects of glucocorti- coids on fat deposits in obese, albino mice. Winne In Charge Several scientists and research- ers from the general area have been invited to the dinner by Professor Winne, who is charge of the meeting. Dr. Hans Rozen- daal, head of biological studies for General Electric at Knolls Atomic Power Lab will attend, accompanied by his eolleagues, Dr. D. Bellamy, u specialist in the mechanics of the photosyn- thetic progress; Dr. John Berger- son and Dr. John Brown. Dr. Arthur Beyler and Dr. Gordon Potts will represent Sterling Win- throp Research Institute of Rens- selaer, Dr. John Denton Crocker, Chairman of the Biology Depart- ment\' of Skidmore College, will also a-ttend. The debates, judged on a point basis, emphasized skill in pre- sentation. This emphasis insured interesting- and provocative speeches, not loaded with dry statistics and opinionated quo- tations which usually mark American style debates. Skill in the use of the Parliamentary pro- cedure was also considered im- portant. Useful in challenging the opposing team, and often pro- viding humor, were the \point of personal privilege\ and the \point of order.\ Jeffrey led the !'hilus by com- piling· a total of 497. Stolzberg, tight behind him, garnered 492 points, for a team total of 989. This total placed the team behind Harvard A, Bishop's A, and Ro- chester Institute uf Technology B. However, Bishop's and R.I.T. compiled only 3-1 records. The other team was led by freshman debator Kreinik with 401 points to Beck's 399. The Philos expect to return to Canada for more of this style of debating in February for the Mc- Gill Winter Carnival International Tournament. Frosh Elect Blumenthal To Class Presidency Bill Blumenthal was elected I The presidential race found president o.f the Fres~man class Blum~nthal winning by t]'re slim Thursday, m an electiOn marked margm of 24 votes, w1th 284 by close races in all four posi- cast. This gave him 54.2% of tions Also elected were Steve the vote cast, as against 45.8% Ritterbush, vice-president, Sandy for his opponent, James MeDon- Alexander, secretary, and Bern- ald. The vice-presidential contest ard Cohen, treasurer. (Continued on Page 5) ( . Union's Salaries in Comparison with Othet• College,; Rang·es - 1965 nange of l\nion Coll!~ge :'\o. Salaries :\led ian Full Professor:; ...... - ii9 $9,000-$18,000 $11,800 Associate l't·of essors ~li 8,000- 1o,:wo 9,000 Assistant Professors 21 6,500- 8,800 7,800 ln:;.tructurs & Assuc·iates ... 17 G,GOO- 8,700 7,000 Ad:11inistJ·ation ~5 4,200- lfl,OOO 9,200 AA UP l~atings - 1963-64 Lettei' Ratings :\I edian Salal'ies Avg. )lin.Scale Williams College Amherst College Hamilton CullegP Haverford College .... Swarthmore College Oberlin College ..... Colgate College $11,400 13,620 10,240 B . .\ B A A B ..\. A B B B 12,520 R B B Tufts Culleg~ Union College ..................... . 11,440 11,670 11,240 10,760 10,900 B n c SC Tables Motion For Honor Systent The Student Council held their bi-weekly meeting on election night. During a short meeting, a motion to bring an honor system to Union came under the Council's con- sideration. Thi::; motion read: \Moved:$>-------·------------ That a campus poll be taken to discover whether thet·e is enough interest at the college to justify the establishment of an honor system.\ The motion was pre- sented by Al Stimson in proxy for John Hausmann, a represen- tati\·e of the Junior class. Haus- man submitted his findings in a letter to the Student Council which Stimson reacl. The Uni- \'ersity of Virginia, Hamilton College, and Amherst College were C'ontaeted and quet·ied on their honor systems. Hausmann's letter stated some requirements that Union must meet for an honor system to be effective. The student body must be homogen- eous with the concept of honesty. They must know what honesty means. In case of cheating or fraud, the 1mnishment must be quick and severe. Indoctrination of the entire student body must be constant. This honor system would only apply to academic life. Singers Present Oratorial Music By :\lark Polansky This evening at 8:00 P.M. the Octavo Singers will present a concert uf oratorial music in Memorial Chapel. This evening's selections will be Alan Hovhaness' \Magnificat\ and Joseph Harden's \Lord Nelson Mass.\ The con- cert is the next convocation in this season's program. For this concert, the Octavo Singers, an amateur group, have called on the services of four pro- fessional soloists. They are Miss Maxine Yeater, soprano; Miss Lillian Mernick, alto; Thomas Parisi, tenor; and Richard Best, bass. These singers are world By Robert Stolzberg A report of the American As- soria.tion of University Professors on compensation shows that Un- , ion is in a relatively poor posi- . tion in comparison with those col- i leges in which it is in competi- tion. The report was published : in the Association's summer bul- . letin. Complementary to this was the oublication of certain statis- tics \showing the high and low salaries for each category of the teaching faculty, and the medians for the groups. Union's fiftJ·-nine full profes- sors 1:eceive a median salary of 11.800, the range going from a high $18,000 to a low of $9,000. Assodate professors receive be- tween $10,300 and $8,000, the median being at $9;000. Assist- ant professors and instructors both fall in nearly congruent sal- ary areas, the upper limit being $8,800 and $8,700 respectively, the lower being $6,500 in both cases. The medians show sub- stantial differences, however, the assistant professors receiving $7,- 800 and the instructors $7,000. Competiti()n Higher The summer issue of the \Arn- erican Association of University Professors' Bulletin\ gives a breakdown of the faculty com- pensation at many American col- leges. The figures show that Un- ion's salary scale is somewhat be- low that of many of the schools with which it is in competition. The data is given most simply on a letter basis. An A rating in professor's avcruge salary is equivalent to nearly $12,000 per year fur t~:aching faculty; an F equals about $6,000. Also noted are the characteristics according to a seal~ of starting; salaries. In this category, A is about $7,000 while F is the equivalent of about a yearly remuneration uf $5,000. Union College is given a rating of C in both of these categories. The aYerage compensation is $11,- 781 per year, as of 1964-65. When fringe benefits are substracted, the average salary is $9,585. These numbers sh(}W an increase in compensation of about $850 per annum during the preceding year. In the minimum scale cate- gory, Union rated a C, also. Oth- er schools in this category of C, C were Skidmore, Vassar, Boston College, F&M, Hobart, St. Law- rence, and Kenyon. Union Trails :.\lany There are many schools which at'e well ahead of us in this field. The Big Three, Harvard, Yale, and Princeton, as well as Am- herst and Wesleyan, received A, A ratings. While Haverford, Swarthmore and Williams all re- ceived B, A. Our traditional Tival, Hamilton, is given a rating of B, B. to put it in the same class Groups Already Pteseut famous in the oratoi'ical field. Victor Fazio, president of the The group is under the dii·ectiort Student Council, reminded the of Mr. Gordon Mason, and will be representatives that academic dis- accompanied by Mr. Duncan Trot- ciplinary problems are handled ter Gillespie at the organ and b · 1 d Miss Geanette Adasz at the pi- as Antioch,. Colg:ate, Oberlin and Tufts. Rating a B, C or a C, B are such schools as Bowdoin, Trinity and Reed. Among the schools with rating; below that of Union are RPI and Bard. by the faculty mem er mvo V€ ano. Mr. Mason is the Director :mel the Student Discipline Com- of Music of the Duanesburg Cen- NA.liES OI•\ I:>OSTlTt:TIO:>OS mittee. Social disciplinary prob- t 1 S h 1 Class A A !ems are also under the jurisdic- ra c 00 s. AmherRt Call.; calif. In\L of Tech.: tion of the Student Discipline Cnlurnhla. l'nlv.; Dui<e l'nlv.: Harvard Committee. The Interfraternity ::\lessiah Also Presented l'nl\',; ~1ass. lnst. of 'rP<'h,; Prim·eton enlv.; \\\esleyan l\niv.; YalP Univ.; Council Discipline Committee han- Tonight's concert is the first Class A 8 dies fraternity cases. Fazio also. of tl1re t b t d b th e 0 e pre sen e Y e llmol<lyn Coil.; City Coil.; ~orthw<>st .. mentioned that an honor system singers at Union College this ern r·ni,· .. Qu•·•n• CulL; t'nl\'. of Clli- \..·as discussed in 1959, and that season. On January 15, 1965, the cago; l'niv. of HochP\to-r: fHnnford l'niv.; there was little interest at that ensemble will sing Handel's \Mes- C'hw• 8 A time. siah,\ and next April they will Barnard CoiL; Bryn ::llnwr Coli.: Rav- In the ensuing discussion, Law- perform D\·orak's \Requiem.\ ~rfm·d Coil.: Lak~ Fore\t Coli.: N. Y. Cl t,y C01u. L'oll.; ~. Y. l'niv.; Prinl·eton renee Dittleman, secretary of the The Octavo Singers, the only Theol. ~em.; 1'mHh C'oll,; Swarthmmv Student Council, suggested that 1 . d . h cnn.; I'nh·. of calif.: '\V.,Jiesley Coli.: the campus be given information group of its nn Ill t e Capital wmtnms con.: on honor systems before students' District, are now beginning their Cla•s 8 B d J k 'f thirty-first season. They were Antioch C'oll.; Brandeis l'niv.; Carle- opinions are aske . ac Sel ert, organized in 1934 by their present ton CoiL; Case Im<L of T,,, h.; Clare- president of the Junior class, sug- I d M M Th mont 1fpn's C'oll.; < 'Ia ri< l'nl\'.; ColgatP . gested that the motion be tabled ea er, r. ason. e company l'ni\'.: r'~shlon I nst. of Tee h.: Grinnell so that more information could numbers about sixty people \in- CoiL: Hamilton <\oil.; llnrv<\Y l\lurld b I[ t d l th f th teres ted in culture and good mu- CniL: Hofstm Colt.: Hunter Coil.: 111. e co ec e anc e range o e sic.\ It is strictly a non-profit Inst. or Tedr.: John !lnpltins t·ntv.: Kat- program be decided. Seifert mov- l umazoo Coli.; ~'lt. HnlyoltP Coli.; Oalc- ed to table the motion. The mo- gr~mp, open to a] · There. is no land l·ntv.; Oberlin Colt.; Occl<lental VOice test for the Octavo Smgers. 1 CoiL: Ohio l'nlv.: Purdue l'ntv.; Rk\ tion passed, and Hausmann was It meets for rehearsal every Mon- I'nl\·.; st. l'ntv. of x. Y.: Harpur Coli.; appointed chairman of a commit- d . ht t St G ' p . hI l'nlvs. at Buffalo and Stony Brnok' tee to investigate further the pos- ay mg a · eorge s ariS T<'a<'h••rs run. Wulu.ml>ial; Tempi\ l'nlv.; Hall in Schenectady. Any Union Tufts l'nlv.: IT.:-;. :-=aval Mn•lo>my; F. 1'. sibility of an honor system. student interested in joining the :>:a val. r:ustgra<tuate fkh.; l'nlv. of Alas- The names of the members of Octavo Singers is cm·dially in- lea:. I mv. of :\1ich.; l'nlv. of Penn.; the Student Traffic Court were . ll'niV. nf the South; t'nh·. of Va. Wash. VI ted to attend a rehearsal Or St. l'niv.; Worcester Poly lnst (Continued on Page 5) contact Mr. Mason. (Continued on Page )

Political Scene: Election Ramblings By Alon Jeffrey The campaign i~s o\·er. President Johnson has beu1 re-eleded by the greatest popular-votl' margin in hi::;tury. Both John~on und Senator Goldwate1· managed to destroy the one-party tr·adition of Vermont and Georgia. Since evel'ything is on.r and everyone is either sad, happy or indiffPrent, we'd likl' to re\'iew the campaign. It appears that the is::sues we di::;cu::;setl regurtling th.e l're::;i- c.lential eampaign were n~sol vcd by the \ o.ters as we lwJ suggested .. l:nfortunutdj·, this was not the ca::;e in the Senatorial lllce in ::-.;ew York. Prediction::; \Ve were quite pleasec.l w;hen the balloting was L>Ver Tuesday night. We predicted that Goldwater's electoral total would be 52 votes. Indeed it wa:s. However, we did err in giving Nebraska,· Wyoming and. North Dakota to Goldwater, and Georgia to Johnson. The three states which we felt were too close to predict (although they were a.ll leaning to\·ard Johnson) did, in fact, cast their votes for Johnson. In the importa-nt Senatorial races, we noted that exten- sive ticket-s·plitting would have to occur to elect Robert Taft, Jr. in Ohio. Enough splitting did not occur and Taft went down to defeat to incumbent Senato1· Stephen Young. Again, in California, we were quite certain that Senator Pierre Salinger would be \handily\ re-elected. Apparently, we were oblivi- ous to the tremendous impact of Salinger's negative stand on Resolu- tion 14 which would have eliminated fair housing laws in California. We did, however, correctly predict Democnttic Yictories in the Senatorial contests in Connecticut, Maine, and Tennessee. Senator Dodd was re-elected, as was Senator Muskie and Senator Gore, and Representative Ross Bass g-ained the short-term seat. Similarly, we predieted a victory by Senator Hugh Scott in Pennsylvania. It no\Y appears that his challenger, Miss Genevieve Blatt, will request a recount. Miss Blatt is notorious for gaining victory in recounts, as she did in the Democmtic primary against Supreme Court Justice Musmano this fall. In th8 two most important gubernatorial races, in Michigan and lllinois, we noted that Romney would defeat Neil Staebler, but that Charles Pe1·cy would have a reasonably tough time with incumbent Otto Koerner. Romney and Koerner did win. Williams' Record In sum total, we were quite pleased with the extent of accm·acy in our predictio11s, noting that Roger Kubarych, writing in the Wil- liams College RECORD, was far less successful. He predicted that 15 states would go for Goldwater,-only 6 did-and inaccurately pre- dicted 11 states. Two-Party Future More than anything else, we are now worried about the future of the Republican Party, and, as a logical extension of this concem, the two-party system as a whole. Senator Goldwater has indicated that he does not believe that his defeat was a rejection of the con- servative philosophy he espoused. Similarly, he stated that he would not relinquish control of the Party to m01·e moderate-liberal elements. We think that it matters little if he does or does not relinquish this control. By the same token it mattet·s little if there is a liberal- moderate Republican candida>te for President in 1968. This would not be the case if such liberal-moderate Republicans as Kenneth Keating, Robert Taft, Jr., and Charles Percy had been elected and if such as Hugh Scott and George Romney had been re-elected by overwhelming margins. In an article eal'lier this yeal' we expressed conce1·n over the position \\'hich James MacGregor Burns enumerated at the Freedom Forum. He felt that it was not necessary for liberal-moderate Re- . publicans to win Senatorial seats because that segment of the party 1 would fare well in gubel'llatorial races. They did not. The only lib- eral-modet·ates left in power in the G.O.P. are Jacob Javits, Hugh 1 Scott (still in jeopardy), Mark Hatfield, and George Romney. It was indeed unfortunate that the Republicans nominated Barry Goldwater. Moreover, it was disastrous for the rest of the paYty. Not only have the liberal-moderates lost, the conservatives fared rea- sonably \·ell electing eight Congressmen from the South. Xew Voters The major impact of this campaign has bE.'cn on the young voters, and the politically aware young non-voters. The major shift from the Republican majorities before 1932 to the Democratic major- ities since was precipated by the Depression. Voters who first voted in the 1932 or 1936 election have continued their alleg-iance to the Democrat Party. It appears that !TI(}St of the new Yoters in this election have similarly rejected the Republican Party. Not only did they reject the Republican Presidential nominee, they also rejected the Party's gubematorial ::md senatorial candidates. Since this is the case, and since most votet·s form theii· lasting partisan party affiliations early in their life, the Republican Party appears to have little chance fot· ever capturing a lasting affiliation from these new voters. It is also important to remember that these new voters are the first of the World War II \baby boom.\ It is this group which \\'ill make up an exceE.'dingly large segment of the total v~ing popu- lation in the ne·ar future. Thus, the outlook for the Republican Party looks dim indeed. It wa's fo1· the above discussion, among other reasons, that this write1· openly afvored and worked for the re-election of Senator Keating. Had the liberal-moderates of the Republican Party been able to win and win over~·helmingly, the partisan affiliation of these new voters mig.ht not have been cemented to the Democratic Party, thus preserving the two-party system. N.J. Comanzo-H. l. Walker 509-511 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. FR 4-7709 , A* *&4 ••••J.••AA.l•••4.4.Jl MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP 515 UNION STREET (Next to Union Inn} Specializing in RESTYLING OF HAIRDOS Each head is given personal Care Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian - American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. Friday, November 6, 1964 Friday, Nove RPI Evaluates New Honor Code The following article is reprinted from the September 30 issue of Polytechnic, R.P.I.'s student newspaper. The Uuion College Stu· dent Council is currently considering adopting such a code. The most detested, the most disgusting, the most d.is~ussed, an<l the most p~·acticed offense engaged in on any college campus is, in .all probability, cheating. The pros and c·ons to the ~onor system ~olut1~n to the pro]Jlem of dishonesty haYe been and 'nil be the mam topic at conventions and student-faculty meetings all over the country. What is the honor system and how does it operate? The Rens- selaer Honor Board suggests that the instructor of a course choose the percentage of the class n~eded to approve initiation of the honor system. After the resolution has been passed a committee of a selected. three or four members of the class and a member of the Honor Board receives all rep(:)t'h of dishonest~· in the course work and conducts hearings. The decision of guilt or innocence must be unanimous and the accused student may appeal his case through the Honor Board and Lhe Dean of Students. The cununittee, upon reaching a decision of guilty, will report H1e student to the Dean of Students and the instructor. Science stacks in Shaffer Librat·y. Perhaps the most obvious hindrance to the acceptance and suc- cess of the honor system is the obligation of ea;ch student to report all violations of the system which he witnesses. Each person must agree to report himself or-and others to the committee in the instance of an infraction in order to help insure adherence to the rules. Thefts Decline Book But the The Honor Board, in an attempt to dispense with complieated rules and procedures, has tried to avoid g1·aduated penalties. A policy whkh has been used with successful results is that of punishing the student who is found guilty by automatically failing him in the course and dismissing him from the class. Cost Is High Established in 1960 by the joint approval of the Faculty Com- mittee on Student Discipline, the Faculty Committee on the Honor System, the Student Council and the Office of Student Administra- By Larry ln early December of 1962 a memo from the desk of Professor Tolan, the head librarian, appear- ed in Concordiensis. This memo pointed out the fact that an in- ventory taken in the summer of 1962 resulted in the discovery that in the science and technol- ogy collections (books classed in the 500's and 600's) and in the American and English literature collections (books class from 800 to 828) 2,143 books were missing. This represented 6.17% of these collections. Deplorable Situation These statistics alarmed the College Community, stimulated much discuss·ion and cooperation. The memo pointed out that the most deplorable situation was in the classification of mathematics embracing advanced calculus, theory of functions, differential equations and Fourier series where 19% of the total collection \·as lost over a ten year period. Other areas showing substantial losses were: statistics 12%, an- atomy 14.7%, therapeutics and pharmacology 15%, electronics 16%, and electrical engineering 13.5%. Profess01' Tolan told this writ- er, in an interview this week, that the Concordy publication of his memo played a significant role in cutting down the number of books leaving the library's col- lection. He pointed out the fact that the inventory taken in the summer of 1963 indicated that 555 titles were missing from the math collection. Of these, 30 were first reported missing previous to 1961, 91 were first reported miss- ing in the summer of 1961, 268 in the summer of 1962, and 166 in the summer of 1963. He indi- cated, however, that in the period from the summer of 1963 until the summer of 1964 only 22 books were similarly reported missing for the first time. This is an indication that the problem is be- in·g overcome, however slowly. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate o,n Nott St. Open Daily 10 to 3 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. - 3 A.M. Brislunau tion, the Honor Board, which has assisted Rensselaer's two formal Prof. Tolan also revealed that honor systems, has five members (three seniors and two juniors.) a list of the 555 titles which are Now, with Bill Curtis as c.hairman, the Honor Board works as an missing in mathematics had been advisory and supervisory body. sent to the Department of Math- Professor Caravanty, professor in the School of Architecture ematics and that they have re- (which, together with Naval ROTC, repTesents Rensselaer's actual quested replacement of 252. The attempt to U·tilize the honor system), has spoken on the necessity of ~ost of these books will be cov- an honor system, \It must be carefully demonstrated to the profes- ered by money from various sional man the honor system is not a choice but an entire way of life. sources. In the first place, the The choice was made when the profession was chosen.\ regular budget for books in ma- But it must not be thought that Rensselaer \stands alone,\ con- thematics ($700) will be used to tending with the problem af cheating and the suggestion of an honor buy these titles. In addition sy,stem. The University of Virginia, Penn State University, Oberlin $1,000 from an unrestricted Na- College, and Mount Holyoke College all have honor systems. doll'al Science Foundation grant Williams College has had an honor system since 1896 and, under will be used to replace the miss- its stipulations, \eac:h student must, in order to make his examina- ing bool{S. Another $1,000 was ti<l'n or any other written w<Jrk done on paper in the classroom valid, alloted for books in mathematics sign the following statement: 'I have neither given nor l'eceived aid in support of the graduate pro- in this examination (or exercise.)\ A recent faculty vote at Wil- gram under an agreement of the Hams made even \small cheating offenses punishable by expulsion.\ neads of the departments of Di- At Princeton Univers~ty, the honor system has been in operation visions III and IV and a vote of since 1893. THE PRINCETONIAN Exchange Editor claims, \The the Library Committee. It is honor system has become an integral part of Princeton University lloped that this $2,700 allotted to and has been successful, as about seventy years of operation show; the purchase of books for the it seems the freshmen l'es:pect it and understand it as seniors do.'' mathema.tical collection will be How can one justify cheating? Certainly it helps no one. Sup- sufficient to buy all of the 252 pose that a Rensselaer student has cheated and attained the grades titles requested by the Mathema- necessary to get a good job in some laboratory. How long do you tics Department. think this victim of his own faults will hold his position when the answers to problems assigned to him are not on the next desk or \Distinction\ written on the inside of his cuff? It seems, Prof. Tolan remark- .r;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;.,.;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;.,.;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;a;;;;;;;;;;;;;\1 ed, that Union College has the \distinction\ of being the leader in the country in regard to the percentage of books leaving the li:brary. In the hope that this deplorable and senseless practice will be stopped, a passage from Prof. Tolan's memo of 1962 is in order: \On this campus we enjoy the privilege of an open stack library. fhis is a privilege which entails a responsibility on the part of each and every person who uses the library-a responsibility to LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian· American Food 1125 BARRETTT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar sign out all books and other ma- ~;-:;~:;:;=;:~:;:;=;:~;:;=;:;~;:;=~~~;:;~~~:;:;=;:~:;:;=;:~:;:;:;=:;; tel'in.ls \Yhen taking the1n fro1n -:. , , , , , , • • , \ \ , , , , , , \ , , • , • , , , , , , , , , , , , v , v , v v , , \ , , the premises. A loan of library t materials, unless contracted for · :n this way is . . . a malicious attempt to steal, and, therefore a callous disregard on the part of some among us for those with whom they are associated at Un- ion C()llege.\ D& J AUTO SERVICE 1372 Union St. BRAKES - TUNE-UP WHEEL ALIGNMENT & BALANCE Dl 6-9644 Members of the Class of 1968 You are cordially invited to a Coffee Hour SUNDAY, NOV. 8, 1964 from 2-4 P.M. at the Lenox Rd. Chapter Houses Delta Chi, Sigma Chi, Phi Epsilon Pi, Delta Phi, Phi Delta Theta, Phi Sigma Delta, Theta Delta Chi. T T ¥' ¥ Y Y f + '+ ¥' + ¥ + + + t F ¥ f + 9' f ¥ '¥ + + ¥ \ V\T\\r'f + + f + '+ T +' V f + T ¥ f 'f DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages ABLE PART TIME MEN ARE NEEDED for our stores, the new MIKE'S GIANT SUBMARINE, and the new NEBA ROAST BEEF. 118 • 120 JAY STREET ................. , ., ••••••• ' .................... , •• , •.6.....10 NEED AT LEAST SIX MEN. APPLY IN PERSON Boulevard Bowl SATURDAY ONLY -1 • 4 P.M. 135 ERIE BOULEY ARD Mike Giant Submarine Sandwich 32 AMF BOWLING LANES Suite 35 Westgate Building WESTGATE SHOPPING CENTER, ALBANY - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES f) ) r------ , ~ Pt'ofesso!' t m·er in cia Uttiversity, : ''To.pka!)i,' • ., Da.ssi n .aral couri. Maxi Vstinov and tongue-in-ch f • i .,on Eric Ami > Lig.ht of Df former mm Su 11day .' 1 ar ~·· ., is a tediouE uH ,Pl'ofounc ~4s I wall· City this st , el'OUs paste: out the tow \'I'op:kapi\ ' letters' aga g,r<Jund. It · i diseoncertin1 seemed to l of this mas technique. ~' ~ ~~~u ;·~~~ ~ CUl'iO sity sl di\erted to subjects. ' ~. + se11sical plo the actors sensical. I interested :;1 ~ Sll.rdly W il( th:.e \\'ein oJ Love\ o1· 111 he might n .. . 1 el~al>ly. Ho do nJO:r:e. create a d toucll of hu peus€. Ins1 *· ·$:is at tjmes \Y-ell done I deatl1 of hi: edy. f.' .~ Stoel \Topkapi date, stock tJ <f.: iJ) J) Tlle poli1 n:<Jt always \!:in another 1~1ents. whi cl<Jln thougl aT rno1'e in ·;;, p-s()phology rnay perha f:aintly, th tion in Bri • Cm A.part f t.ion again held office •lie opinio' against th~ of a serie In the wi spell of u \' caused wic and thoug had recove parts of • England c by a level above the in the sp: f' ail ure of •tempt to l into the :E ket, and t' by tl1e Pr • the autum :Party leac 111any loy that a foe Entirely , • }lartv whi :at ~he m ;and were methods 1 • Ed'' into t ious <lf al f1ti1ure of ..cia.l and ~ • •ve~·e pro( OlUIC gro· ·with a re 11a-ting bo In thes1 • surprisi11g election t in the vo1 6% to 43 e itt popul: t 51

1964 issue Stu· an<! in all topic Rens- honov of a the \Vork the and of d the sue- must policy the n the Com- as an ity of rofes- life. honor berlin under valid, aid Wil- ration \The show; o.=-' Sup- o you the or •• <f.: •)) J) ~ Friday, November 6, 1964 Topkapi: A Bit Of Unreality By Paul Sherwin Curriculum: Educational A itns By Ba1·ry 1\ewmau Pt•ofessor Reece is visiting lee- . tm-el' ,jn classics from Abe1•deen ' Ultiversity, Scotland. .., \Topkaj)i directed hy Jules • Da.ssin all<l starring Me'lina Mer- couri. Maximillia.n Schell, Peter Vstinov and Robert Morley is a• tongue-in-cheek suspense based' · Any discussion of lhe genera! I The i(lea of specialization, how- 1 fcssor Nelson feels that such an purposes and aims of higher edu· ever, rtends to be given excessive I imlividt!al finds a void in his later ' cation must, unavoidably, be filled I emphasis by teachers and, more' life. He ,js c<Jnfined to his nanow with somew'hat flowery idealisms. often, by students. The typical in-: profession aml has uo relation to ::i·'l·''''''''''~:::::::(·::':i . The platitudet>, ho\vevcr, ar~ of Leu 1 dividua'l attending college L:; able 1 the wUI·lrl aruund him. expressions of wlid and deL•ply 'to see a career in his future, but ~ C .!'on Eric Ambler's spy story, \The Light of Day.\ Unlike Dassin's former masterpieC\es \Never on Su 11day .'' and \Rififi this film rooted principles. . he is not sufficiently broad mind- i · ew ourses The students of C'11ion College, ed uo yet to re<:ugnize the value In ot·det· lo rectify this situa- :• i,; a tedious exercise and not at, uH Pl'ofound. ~4s l walked around New York: City this summer, I noted num- fu:~m the fi'l'st time they open a of taking other courses which I ti<m, the .:u1nmittee is o:earc11ing- catalogue and .throughout theit' St:l\\'C to expand his field of ]eal'll- I for he\\.' '<.'OUl'Sl'S of U general na- :;tay in ::;chool, are endles::;ly cun- ing. The second objec~ive l>f' edu- 1 ture that will act not as mel'£' fronted by the exhOl'tation to be- cation at Union, therefore, is to I \icing on the cake\ for an edu- . come a \well. rounded individual.\ guide the student in obtaining a cated man, but which will be in- Despite the hackneyed nature of geneml education fo1' which he is tegra ted with his major studies . this state1uent, and the bud jokes likely to be grateful in later· life. For exumple, rather than foJ·ring- • e1•ous posters scattered through-: · out the town with just the word· \'I'opka:pi\ written in jag·ged 1•ed letters· against a black back- gr()ttnd. It hegan. to become quite \\'hich are attached to it, the pro- . . a history major to take courses duction of \well rounded individ- l\leanmgful EXJlosure in Physics which offer little last- uals\ remains. the pr~n;ary pur- The new curriculum, which is ing ami useful knowledge to him, pose of educatton at 'Cmon. currently being thrashed about by I new courses are being advanced 11 diseoncerting· because nobody:. seemed to know the significance of this mass, obscure advertising technique. Now, I have founo Two Assumptions the faculty, will be designed to I which \'1\'0t!ld · concentt,ate on the This c. olleg-e, like innumerable create a program of general edu-~~ overall implications of scientific other institutions, operates on two cation that will most effectively explorati()ns. This would include · basic assumJ)tions of pm·pose. The give each student, regal'dless of the hi:stoTical, sociological and 11 ott t ·wh.at the whole mystery is al>out and must confess that my ctuiosity should have been well dhrerted to some more interesting sttbject.s. \Topkapi\ has a non- \Topkapi's\ Heroes Couspil·e. first is that higher education his major, a lasting and meaning- psycholog-ical meanings of science serves .as a preparation fur spe- ful exposure to material outside today. Ce1'tainly, a course of this good box office attraction-an in-~ off the always idiotic police force· cialization in a particular field. his immediate area of con centra- nature will mean more to the his- ternational cast, a phC>togenic of Istanbul or any other exotic Any good undergraduate cunic- tion. According to Pt·oessor Hugh tory major than learning how to background (Istanbul), a beauti-, dty. A bumbling, bungling Peter ulum must provide courses in rei- Alan Nelson of the Department of hook up an ammeter. In the same ful nymphomaniac ring leade1·, of~ Ustinov, who is tl1e only truly atively narrow areas of study English, who is working on the I context, tllis comse, when taken l:l gang of thieves and some sin- I' bright light in this dull film, with !'he object .of at least eon- sectio:r: of the Curricula_r Affairs I by a pbysics major, gives .him .a gle, dangerous act to be perform- gives the authorities the notion structmg a bas1s for g1•aduate Commrttee report dealing with , knowledg·e <Jf h1story \\'h1ch 1s eel. The object of this group of I that there is some sort of politi- work. In some cases, sufficient edu<!ational purpose, most stu- 1 highly revevant to his field of in- + sensical plot and it appears that the actors know that It is non- sensical. If Dassin were me1·ely interested in presenting an ab-. ' su.rdly wild adventure story in th:.e ·\'ein of \From Russia With Love\ or \That Man From Rio,\ he might not have failed so mis- master robbers is to stea.l a fab- 1 ' cal terrorizing going on. knowledge can be acquired in .un- dents presently are taking general I te1·est, and •vould mike him a spe- ulously jeweled dagger from Is- The Great Theft dergraduate endeavors to allow courses which they have little in- cialist ·with a broader outlook. tanbul's heavily guarded Topkapi What is supposed to be the the studen·t to begin his career 1 terest in, and merely tolerate for The precise nature of the com·s- .Palace Museum. Miss Mercouri I high point of tension in the film, immeoiately after reeeiving his ll~ck _of a; method for avoiding the 1 : es which will develop from the .1 et~al>ly. However, he has tried to do moJ:e. He has attempted to 'Create a dramatic work with a toucll of humor to relieve the sus- plays the unreal leader of the I found fairly interesting. While degree. d1strtbut10n reqUirements. Pro- (Continued on Page 4) band who \has to have the dag- 1 everybody except our heroes is ger\ as well as all the men she asleep, a rope is thrown over the $: pense. Instead, the suspense that · · is at times quite convincing and \1'~11 done is shrouded under the deatl1 of his not too original com- edy. .\\< Stock Characteristics can get her hands on. She mur- wall of the museum and a lone, murs suggesticvely to Maximilian dangling aerial thief comes slith- Schell, \Do you mind that I'm a ,I' ering down to the prize of prizes. nymphomaniac?\ He is at her Any slip will touch .off the pres- sewice in this regard in addition 1 sure sensitive floor which will to being the pl:mn.er of ~he \Great j stimul~te tiny electronic centers \Topkapi\ has all the up-to- date, stock characteristics of a Theft.\ Then· Idea 1s to use I and tnp off a general alarm. The amateurs in an effort to throw (Continued on Page 4) Guest Column: The British Election By Professor David W. Reece Tlle polities of one countl'y .a:re I party in a Br~t~sh election since ll-<>t always easily comprehensible the war. B_u~ 1f there w.er~ any- f'in another. The following com- thing surpnsmg about th1s, 1t was tnents. which are merely the ran· that the !oss .of support ~·as not cl()Jn thoug·hts of a classical schol- larger still: 1f the electi?n had lll' rno1•e interested than expert in be.;n held six months earlier, the jibe that Labour is something of a one-mand band. Certainly, apart from Harold Wilson him- self, there does seem to be some shol'tage of talent among the sen- ior echelons of the party: death, and thirteen years in the political wilderness , have seriously re- 'l'> p-sC~phology and allied mysteries, loss might have been .n~arer 10'/r, tuay perhaps illuminate, however to judge from the opmwn polls. f:aintly, the recent general elec- tion in Britain. . duced the pool of ability. ~arrow Majority What Now? Conservative Loss If the result showed that many · A.part fi·om the natural 1 ·eac- voters had had enough of the With an overall majority of tion against a party which had Conservatives, it also showed that only four (now increased to five h.eld office for thirteen years, pub- they were not very eager to re- by the re-election as Speake1• of a 1 - • • h d 1 1 t ed place them by the other major Conservative M.P.), Mr. Wilson • IC opmwn a c ear Y . urn ·party. The Labour share of the cannot hope to carry on for much against the Conse·rvatives because of a series of failut•es in policy. votes cast ( 44.1 '7o) was almost more than a year at the outside. In the wintel' of 1962-3 a long exactly the same as it had been in Two or three sudden deaths - spell of unusually hard weather 1959, when the party was soundly and the Labour ranks contain con- <!0 cau.sed widespread unemployment, defeated, and in fact its share has side1•ably more old and ailing and though most of the countl·y been smaller only once in post- members than those of their op- had recovered by the end of 1963, war elect'ons. (In passing- it is ponents, as Labour members can parts of Scotland and northern worth noting· that no British g-ov- often not afford to retire at a rea- • England continued to be troubled ernment since the war has se- sonable age) - and his majority by a level of unemployment well cured 50'/r of the votes). By con- would he gone. The strain of gov- above the national average. Then trast the revival of the small Lib- erning with so small a majority in the sprin~ of 1963 came the eral party was far greater than will be heavy, especially on Min- :failure of the government's at- had been expected either by the isters, who will constantly have • tempt to secure fol' Britain entry experts or by the pollsters. At to be ready to take part in votes into the European Common Mar- 11.2'/o their vote was nearly dou- in the House to the detriment of l!:et, and this was followed closely ble that of 1959, and four times their work in their depa1·tments. by tile Profumo scanda.l. Then in that of 1955. Moreover the in- But if Mr. Wilson could rely on • the autumn came the crisis in the crease in votes was reflectl:ld for the regular suppoi't of the nine ])arty leadership, which disturbed the first time by an incTease of Liberals, he would have a much n1any loyal supportel'S who felt members retumed to the House, more comfortable majority of 23 that a fourteenth earl was not an with a net gain of two, while (about the same size majority as Entirely suitable leader for a Liberal candidates came second in the Conservative government had • Jlarty which claimed to be aiming three-corne1•ed fights in 55 other between 1951 and 1955) and could at che modemization of B 1 ·itain constituencies (as against 27 in hope to carry on for several years. :and were shocked by the dubious 1959). (It is an indication of_ the As Jo Grimmond has already in- nlethods by which he was \evolv- way in which the British electoral dicated, Liberal support will be • Ed'' into the leadership. Most ser- system favours the big battalions forthcoming 'for measures design- ious <lf all perhaps wa.s the clear that, while 12,000,000 Labour ed to cure Britain's economic ills, f!tilure of the government's finan- votes elected 317 M.P.s, 3,000,000 and to modernize its industry, but ..cia.l and economic policies,. which Liberal votes could elect only not for doctrinaire acts of nation- ! nine ) alization. Whether Mr. Wilson • ·we1·e producing the s owest econ- ' will avail himself of this support oJnic g1·owth in Ew·ope coupled with a recurring series of alter- This poor performance by La- is not yet clear, though he him- 1u~.ting booms and crises. bour against a tired and discred- self has already implied that. he In these circumstances it is not ited government shows clearly proposed to go ahead with La- 4 that a party which appears to be hom's programme. His inten- surprishlg that at the general still wedded to out-dated and ir- tions will be more obvious election the Conservatives' share relevant socialistic doctrines does when w.e know the contents of the in thE votes cast fell by just ovel' · · • s h d b d 6 % to 43 .4%, the lal'gest decline not attract a maJOl'lty of the Brit- Queens peec , ue to e eliv- ~ itl popularity suffered by any ish electorate. Mol'eover, there is I (Continued on Page 4) \' some truth in the ConserYative ' UNION INN 517 Union St. RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featurinq: HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties - Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week 44 CaniBM use my degree?\ If your degree is in Liberal Arts, Engineering, the Sciences, or Business Administration, you may very well find your route for advancement at IBM. The marketing and appli- cation of computers offer opportunity to new graduates in a variety of ways. At IBM, Data Processing Systems Engineers study the best ways to solve customer problems. They find the best methods and select the best equipment to handle each type of problem, If your college experience has taught you to organize information and approach a problem system- atically, see IBM. An IBM Data Processing Representative shows customer executives how IBM can help business become more effi- cient. In selling to business, industry, government, or defense, you use your own initiative and individuality. Ad- vancement comes as you develop skills acquired in college. Thorough initial training will teach you the techniques of data processing and marketing computers. If you are look- ing for opportunities to grow, join IBM. Your placement office can give you our literature-or make an appoint- ment with our interviewers. IBM is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Interviews November 18 If you cannot attend the interviews, write or visit the near- est IBM sales office. A. J. Davies Branch Manager P. 0. Box 1044 Schenectady, N. Y. 12301 IBM DATA PROCESS lNG '; '

4 arnurnr Published Fridays during tl:lc school year by the Student Body of Union Coll~ge, Schenectady, N. Y. Na- tional Advet·tlslng Representative: National Advertising Servlt:!e, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 l\lndlaon Ave., N. Y. C. Editorial Office, Old Gym, Union College. Publica tlon Office, Sche- nE'ctady Printing Company, 602 Broadway, Entered In the Sche- nectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Mattei'. Subscription 16c a c·opy: $8 a y\at• delivered anywhere in the United States. SI\SIOR BO.\.RD LARRY HOROWITZ '6j ............ 346-SS95 .... . .. Et1itor-In·Chie1 Businf'ss !\tanager :.1-IARK OBI'.::SZ!NGEH '65 ......... DIG-S969 RICHARD AR0:-:1 '65 ....... 016•9848 ROBE:nT 1'. HOI•'I':.I-IAN '6L HICII.\.HD HEi:lCH '66 ... R!Cl!AHD S!FTO!'\ '66 .. -·---· .......... _____ :\1anaging Editor ... News Editor .. Sports Editor Contributing Editor WILLJ.,U1 T. WI!'\NI!: '3-1.. .......... .. .......................... !•'acuity Advisor Jt:XIOR BOAR-D Alon Jpffre>y '65 ............ ___ ..... .......... . ................... Contributing Edl-tor ).lark KaHowitz '6'7................. --· ........... Assistant News Editor BatT~· !\E.l\Vman '67................ ..... .......... . ............................. Assistant New£ Editor : linttJww ..:\\1. J{at·z 'C';.. . ...... As.soC\iatE' News Editor Hobt>rt fHolzhPt\g '6i .. . Associate News Editor Arnold J{atz '136 ........................................ Copy Editor Andrew Call> '67......... . ............................... Assistant Copy Editor La-rry Hriskman 'Gi .. ... .. ............................. Assistant Copy Editor Pett>r :\1iehl '67 .. . .. ..... . . .. . . ............. ...... . ......... Assistant Copy Editor . Paul Sherwin '67. .......... ... . ................. .Assistant Features Editor Michael Spodal< '66........ . ... .. . .......................... Assistant Sports Editor Howard A. Goldberg '67 .... - ...................................................... Assistant Spol'ts Editor Bill LiduJwltz '6 i .................... ...................... .. ............. ..... .................... Photographer Election Debacle We greet the election returns with mixed emotions. We are happy that Goldwaterism has been thoroughly repudiated by the vast majority of people in the country, but regret that it had to be done at the expense of the en- tire Republican party. It is also unfortunate that Lyndon B. Johnson was the beneficiary of the anti-Goldwater senti- ments. That a man of such questionable character and stature should receive the biggest plurality in history is an unfortunate quirk of fate. The fate of the Republican party is now anybody's guess. The coming weeks are a time for them to bind their wounds, reevaluate their position and hopefully reemerge as a responsible opposition party. Our na:tion depends on a two party system. For the first time in many years the strength of one of these parties is seriously weakened. Whatever one's party senti- ments are, this must be viewed as a sad and dangerous turn of events. Yet it was all predictable! A great deal 1 of blame for the debacle must rest squarely on the should- ers of Dwight D. Eis-enhower. Perhaps more than any other he had the power to stop Goldwater dead; yet the man who violently opposed Robert Taft \on principles\ in 1952, remained mute. It was certainly a low po·int of his political life. Arthur Larson, when he was on campus several weeks ago, and who is a close personal friend of the former President, said that \this Goldwater business is breaking Ike's heart.\ But he appears to ha vc survived it. It is a sad commentary on a man who was president of the United States for eight years. Faculty Salaries In this issue the faculty salaries of Union professors are compared with those of all the other colleges listed in the A.A.U.P. ratings, and the results are not encourag- ing. Union's class \C\ ratings are not commensurate with its hopes of offering a class \A\ academic education. We urge the trustees, as we have urged them many times through the years, to give top priority to hiking faculty salaries. It is obvious that the level of the teach- ing staff at an academic institution is just as important as the quality of student attending it in determining the type of education to be <Jffered. Naturally we are happy about the plans for new build- ings. But it seems to us that the heart of the college- the classroom life - must be strengthened before the adornments-the classrooms-are improved. Union is a small college in a world of the big univer- sity. The problem of preventing the loss of good faculty becomes more acute each year-witness our sad experi- ences of last year. When the State Universities can offer more pay and fewer teaching hours, it is hard to keep good men here. Union is currently in a period of self examination and evaluation. Committees working on curricular reform and calendar change are trying to work out a system that will reduce faculty load. This is one step. The JlOWer for the other necessary step, the raising of salaries, rests with the trustees. We hope they see the importance of this and rise to the occasion. Honors Code The Concordiensis is in favor of instituting an Honors Code for the college. We agree with Dean Lockwood when he says that such a code raises the level of maturity of a college campus. It requires a great deal more of the stu- dent in terms of personal development. An honors code als-o adds a certain amount of dignity to a college. It is the final projection of men being treated as men. We hope the Student Council and student body give it considerable thougbt. ·-- C'.l.C.M£}(.5' A Useful Art , By Albert Nahmias ~o the average freshman en-tain formulae or certain chapters tenng college, ~ramming,. in its or paragraphs in the text. He pu~est sense, Is somethmg of was probably listening in class which he has heard, but which while you were sleeping. He will he has not, as yet experienced. know what formulas the ]JI'ofes- Aft~r several mouths of college, sor told you to know. He also ~1e IS ex~osed to cramming in all has a few ideas of his own. Be- J!s horrible, naked manifesta- ing smart, he will undoubtedly twns. welcome the chance to show you Cramming before examinations how much he knows. Let him. is as inevitable as g-etting drunk But while he is telling you, jot on party weekends. No matter down short notes. how hard the semi-conscientious This brings to mind Principle student (and isn't everyone here ;i:t-2: A few careful moments Qf conscientious) tries, it is impos- listening to a student who is bril- sible to comnlete all of the re- liant c-an he worth hours of quired work· for the course in listening· to a professor who is question, by the night before the not. I have known many students exam. who have the ability to condense What should be the course of the entire course into one page attack on the eve of certain of small writing. Find one of doom? The first step is to run these people-soon. He will not do,m the list of all the smart peo- be difficult to find. He'll he sit- pie in the class. There is always ting alone in the Rathskellar or someone who knows what is hap- in the all-night study on a party pening and who has done the weekend. .Saying hello to him work. A quick ten-cent phone on campus will insure his com- call will ascertain whether your plete devotion to you because, if quany is at home. Dash over you are his friend, you'll :proba- nnd with meek protestations about bly be his only friend. how snowed you are, you should When preparations for your be able to at least obtain a com- bout of wits with the professor plete set of notes, and at most, have been completed, remain all the homework assignments calm. Panicking on the exam since the last exam. Read these accomplishes nothing. Remember quickly, but carefully. They will Principle #3: The prof may know undoubtedly contain the meat of more about the course than you the course. Principle #l: Smart do, but you are smarter than he people take good notes. Remem- is. Make sure your essays say ber thi::; deep truth. Read his what you think he would like to notes and you will have a com- hea1·. Wr·ite down every formula plete outline of the course. you know and plug in values. The next step is to write down Partial credit has saved me and every formula in the chapter. Also it can save you too. make sm·e you know what the I must end this article abruptly symbols mean. Drop a few in- because of the amount of wor!<: nocent questions to your new- I have to do before tomOI'row. found friend, making vague ref- Remember Principle =4: There's erences to the importance of cer- still time, brother. Topkapi ••• (Continued from Page 3) man at the other end of the rope cries, \It's slipping.\ Second by second the unbearable suspense intensifies. What will our heroes do now? As I watched this in• tended scintillating drama of nerves and wits, I relaxed, closed my eyes and frankly didn't care at all. Photography and Musical Score Henri Alekin's magnificent col- or photography of the film's breathtaking Middle Eastern set- ting is indeed captivating. How- ever, Dassin continuously directs the camera towards long, and not too appealing, close ups of the love of his life, Melina Mercouri, as she ogles, moves her hips and makes countless other sensual gestures which do not come off as very appealing. One of \Top- kapi's\ high spots is the catchy musical score of Manos Hadjida- kis who had the nation humming his equally pleasant music in \Never on Sunday.\ Lacl{ of Brio \Topkapi\ is just an<>ther run- of-the-mill example of what has become a very popular trend in the pap that movie makers have been feeding their public for the last few years the chic, suspense comedy. Its sole aim is enter- tainment. Howeve1•, Dassin's film lacks the brio of many of these other razzle-dazzle dramas which have come off quite effec- tively. It lacks originality and is not honest enough t<> stand up proudly for the nQnsense that it is. Despite its numerous failings, I would hesitatingly recommend \Topkapi\ as a tonic for test- weary students. If one is numb enough, the absurdities of this film might be ove1•looked. Curriculum (Continued from Page 3) current faculty discussions is not yet certain. Eventually, however, solutions will be reached that will attempt to give greater definition to the aims of higher education at Union. Ski Instructors Weekend positions available for kicrs to instruct high school boys and girls. Prior instruction exper- ~nce not required. Goocl compen· ;otion. Excellent ski facilities. Write or Call: SHAKER VILLAGE SKI GROUP P.O. Box 1149, Pittsfield, Mass. Lebanon Springs (N.Y.) 7-1255 Tfff'Tftf'ttftTffft fftTt STUDENT TRAVEL • College Tours • College Study Programs STUDENT & FACULTY GROUP TOURS Arranged at LOWEST PRICES Books Now open for Christmas and Recess Vacations Schenectady Travel. Bureau, Inc. Est. 1930 424 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. PHONE FR 7-8506 Agents For All Leading Airlines- S.S. Companies - Railroads and Car Rental Cos, ···········4·········.1. Friday, November 6, 1964 clay, Nov Catnpus Calendar Xovember Br£4 p• ~Lib November November Novembet· 6-Ad-Interim Seholarship Report. Faculty Bridge, Hale House l<,aculty Loungs, 8:00 .p.m. Octavo Convert, Memorial Chapel, 8:00p.m. 8-Commun-ity Vesper Sel'Vi·ce, Memorial Chapel, 7:30p.m. 9-United States CoaSit Guard, Hale House Student : Lou.nge, 10:00 a.m.-3:00 p.m. . Senior History Majors-West CoUege Library, 4:00 p.m. 10-IFC Meeting, Hale House Student Lounge, 7:30 .p.m. Convocation, Dr. Nelson Guieck, Memol'i.a'l Chapel, 11:30 a.m. ,, 11 Branc the oppos rooms. Liberal v · \,een tradi ti til last Spr ' sity revisec• that dormi1 '1Pe!1 when JiOSlte sex that time f become stri eliminate ai ~ffect at t next .acader November 11-Navy Officers Information Team, 8:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m., Hale House Student Lounge. Novembet· 12:.-...Navy Officers Information Team, 8:00 a.m.-4 :00 p.m., Hale House Student Lounge. .. ~ ) Tradi • At ene {·isit the de members 0f November 13-F?lm Series, EE22, 7:00 and 9:00 p.m., 'Shoot the Ptano Player.\ \ Center Is Ready For Use '\ By Richard Fateman Union College's computer cen- ter is now in a position to offer assistance to any faculty member who feels he has a problem that might be amendable to computer solution, according to :Professor T. R. Hoffman of the Electrical Engineering Department. Literary Application Applications are obvious enough in matters of scientific calcula- tions, applied mathematics, and statistical economics. However, the liberal arts faculty may also make extensive use of the com- puter in literature and history. Recent Anti-8-tratford.ians, for in- stance, have used computers to show, on the basis of word fre- quencies, that Shakespeare did not wri·te some or all of his plays. Another possible direction for ex- ploration might be in the field of purely automatic poetry writ- ing, easily within the capabilities of our computer. Those in the social studies British Election (Continued from Page 3) ered at the opening of the new Parliament this week. One further point should per- haps be added. Apart from the renationalization of steel and cer- tain sectors of road transport, the Labour government is not com- mitted to any specific p1·ogramme of extending public ownership of industry. Experience of the work- ing of the industries already na- tionalized suggests that outright public ownership is not necessar- ily the best way to protect the public interest. Moreover in Bri- tain the Labour movement has always been influenced more by the social conscience of its mem- bers than by the doctrines of so- cialism. The left-wing doctrin- aires in the Party often make the most noise, but they are usually a minority, and the strength of the party lies primarily in the less vocal but ultimately more in- fluential pragmatists of the centre and right. Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. oil might envision (and, in so-me in- I stances, have a:lready envisioned) uses of the computer as a tool in analysis and decision making. ~ . For instance, how would changes in corporate financing affect tax rates, growth, earnings, etc? Or, how has government spending, or any other number of :factors af- fected the standard of living in the past decade, and how might they influence the nex.t decade's 'l Possibilities Discussed A staff of four students, work- ing under Professor Hoffman, is available for consultation on specific problems. The faculty 411 , member need know nothing about computers or about programing. Any potentially useful or inter- esting idea with possible comput- er applications will be discussed fl> and, if feasible, will be pursued ·within the limited time available. All requests mus-t be made through Hoffman on a first come, 1t first served basis. Iii • • • tl VAN CURLER I. ~ ' -.!, MUSIC SHOP ·' l• 501 State Stfeet ~ .>C 'J RECORDS MUSIC JAZZ ) POPS Student Discounts II' CLASSICS • ~~,\ ' A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR A.-8917 For three Generations ••• fhose Who Know. Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Maurice B. Graubart & Sons ' 11 3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY • • • ) ~) j l ·' a part of tl Brandeis U .4een in rec fects of thi under the c i \\ersity ofJ \O regulate sexes on c rored by ~ change unt last sprin~ 5reakthrou~ inate all ' The decisio October. ~ Pa Dean of Morrissey 1 ception has ~ isi ting rul which the [ appropriate social gath }'oth sexes dormitory 1 gatherings upon appr< the Dean c ~ Saturd.: Cancel.: ·~ The Facu ing this we favoring th classes on : ;gember 14. cancellatior desired to going to football ga ~ufficient 1 game. All will be he ~avy R :»I anne• On Wed ,..,,r ovember ,ffice info ' n campus : 1 Hale fl 1 <~mtil 4_: ~0 !)Ortumtles g-raduates Navy. Th lieutenants ~JV. Bieber ·will have 'on the vaJ for both n .ll.!nts interE . military ol 1 ficer are i the inforn tPfficer pre U.S. Navy You hom hem wants right n waitin1 phone a pho best tl ®~~ ' ~I

4 ;, -.J \]It!; Ho \t;lt Debacle \\ ,. ~~ ····1 tl1•· dr·• :1. \' lt'111ll1>' \\'tth tnix•·d <'lll<>li\!l!'. \\ . .tl•· ll:tjljl\. th:tl r; .. \,lw:,t..-r·L'Ill ha:-; !J,.,.~: tlHil't>lt:~bly :··:~ud:::r··d h\· :!1<· \·,,;-;1 :!LiJ<~nt~· •d Jlt'tljdt· in t!J,. '\un\r~·. hill !1 ~lt·! :1:;; 1 I' iL>.f • h· d••IJ•· ;It tht· (':\.l•<'ll:-'t' ttl lilt• t'll- ]! '\ :d,-,1 tHil<>l'lllllalt· tha: L\'nd<>!l '\-. 'I I· j: I i r I· • .... \ ! \hI' (,!. '.II 1 ·~.,I • tjl:r:.; ttl l.i\•\ ... . ·! : ;,, 1~- !•t.i•;, .111 J<dl r:' r~ r_ .• -.\ .111~ l,. .. j<,, KJNG of Mt= MOUNTA1N . ( o.mon~ ~~---- -- t:'LE.MEIVS' A Useful Art B~ \lht'r I \.thlltt,t~ t\t·•J;.t,..:.t·' lrt·· ... iln\.t!. t··f--',ll'! !<lt-lll~ILII , ··r~.tlt1 clJap:t•r:-. ·, 1 T :._' ····.!t·L't ,-r.:~l.lll'!ll-: •. 11 J', •·I t':tr;:;~l:lJI~J .... :11 th,· tl·'\~. l·l\· •'' .. · ..... -~ ..._,., .... ,.,lJ\ .. •h !1:..!. ~~~ -.,;~_.... l\··:•.d• .\ !i:-:tt-•JJII!g ir1 t·Lt:-.~ -~\! ••. ~1;1 ... f!•.:r·d. 1111: \\ ·:t·f. ,-.h· , ... \''u \\t'Iv ...:!t·•t~p:ll.!.!. lit· will '' r 11 •• ~, ... .\~< ''\JH·tit·rwt·•i. !.•.••',\ .\.!:.1~ f~•rtlllll.L\ tht• f'I\<J((' .... - \:·, \\ \l.l '\'''.: ' .• ( ,- .. :11·'\.!l', ·'\ ., ,I ~\\ '\ i\'\\· lit• :tb« \l· ~-..-.,: ·~~ .. ,:lnl!tl·t!! :•: .1i~ i·>t' a i•-·'.\ t•l a-. .,f :1:..: ,,,,,1. B~·* ·' :·· ,. · a:.;~-·d ~,;:P !l•·<.t ., ~! -lll:t''. ·~~· \\ 11 ll!H!,,u!,tt·dh· '.\t tt··lltt' •Itt' t·h:tr;~·t• tn ~lln\\' \'o\1 1 I .!!. 1 ft t ~ 'It: >!(' ~''\dllll'l,(l,\t '•>,\ lllllt\'l lt' i...lttl\\;\1 l.t·'l ,;ifll. ' l ..., 0 ' \ : • t I I~ ·-· • I .... J...: t·· t I ' ' I L! I i ,. I I ! ' ;'\ , I, • ~ • \ , I 1-' 1\ I' I ;1 i..... \I I ! J; :.1' ~ t'' ~I ;1: t! t ht· - t·' rJ I 'jl J. _._,I , I ) 0 I I~ i \' I ' ~ • • • ( ,_l I I I I : \'!! 0 t I '\ t' ~ ,\ 1 1 !, t 0 } } t'l I' ''! t ...... : , . I:1J' \\ i1i',. Ill' i ... tt·l!:r,g ~-~~tl~ J•lt • I• •\\ It ..,hnr·t fHJtt·;-;. T1. . ..; ;,!:flJ..!_.., !{I 111:nd l-'1 int'iplt> \ ,,.,, ,-;,n·t'ul ntulllt'll!s of \\' \l:• ;_. 1·;,,. , . .,lll.lt.:..: \\··· ;,, .: ,. :1 lllllt' f<~l ih<'!l1 \<>bind tllt·ir :; :.·, ... :··· '- :diJ;;t.· 1 i1•·t1 !\·~:It \Ill\ and h\!·•·fu:l~· l't'l'lllt'l'.~t· •· \\ ; 'tl tll \\I ' 1 J( ·f1 >!I'' .... ~t·'dt:L! ~.~ .l .<udt>nt \\·hoi~ hti.l~ : :~: · ':t' \',.,J·th hour..; of l; ... ·~·!:·ti:..:: ~·· a Jn·~•ft.t~sur \\'ho i~ ,. ·· I h:1\ , .. \\\\\ 11 tnanv ,;tudt·llt~ ·,d,., :,,t\t' ;ilt• :tt<ility to• I'Olldl'llSt' • 't• t•t<:rt• t'oi\II'Sl' illttt OHP Jl:l}..!.'t' :::,· t· •:: ,J,·J·t·l\l\' '>J: \ t\\ ... !•arty S\':-:h·nL \' ; .. tll\ y•.!l'\' ti1•· :-:tn·n;.:tll 11! \'t•· F• •: t lw I It' t !Jt':'t' l-;tll\·\ ::-; ·•·lltoll~l:: ,,,.,,)\. n·d \\'lwt•·\·o·t .. n,-·,_ j•::rt~· :-;,·nti- 1.:• ;.1. r· !hie' :•11:\'! l!l' \lt'\\'t•d ;1~ :t :':t<l d~l·l d:tll,:..:,t•ftttl:' 1:111: ,._,·~;:. \'.t 11 'A:I> ;,)] J•l'•··lil'lahh·: .\ gr• at th·:tl • • •''\'· , •• • •• 1' ~L·lJa•l•· n.,t:-'' Jo·;-;1 :'IJII:tlt·l:-.· ••!1 tht· >'ht~ttld- •·I .. ; .. , :..:i:: '' Fl~t·Jh•·\\• t. I '•·l·l::q>::-; ll111t•· th:t!l :1n~· c·1ll~ J:, h.: 1 :it l\ 1 1 .\'<l ! ,, :-::\1' ( ;\]d\\·att•J' •h·:Jd n·l tilt• ttl:t:• ., t, · . •· .i.-nt :\· \l'l'\\'·d I : .. \)1·11 T:tlt .... n l•l'llll'il>l•·~<· 111 1~1.-~:.:. :t:.ttl•···: t·:•:t•· It Y.:t'-' cc·ll:tlllly a l\w !\<In! ttf hi:-; ,, .. ;,:;,_,; i:k .\rth:u· 1 .. 1!:'••11. ,,-h,·n h·· \\<1>' •n ,;t!l1j•ll:-' :\'\.t'\.l ·.11 \\1'1'1\~. .:t:·i \,\':~., j,:-; ;! t']tl~t' J.wl:-\tdl:J: flit n.d ,Ji tilo· !\1!:1··: l':. -t<l•:t' .. --':·1<i til:.: \tilt:-: r:~-ld\\:~l•-·1 ll•:;-;111•··:-;.~ ;I' i il.~ I:..,.:-- ilt·',tl: j; 1 l1 L,· ·•!·I·I',tl.' tl, L.t\• >!tL'\i\'t•·l Ir 1> .• ~.,I ····111n1• t:l.tr \ \:1 :1 lll:tll \·j ''\\ !•1• ,..tdt·tll Salaries 1:: il:-' ::--:-'11•· th·· Lt•ttl!y ~~:tl:tn··:-: .. t l'nt\ll I•I•d•·:·'-'\ls ,·«:!.' ,;:•, d \\ tt II til\\'' ,j :dl t IJ,. utbt'l· ,.,,]],-g,·,.; li,.;t,·d 111 1 J;, .. \ .\ l · I I 1 .tt :1 ::..:~ .. tnl 111·· I• ;;u]t.s ;,ro· n .. t o'iilttJI!';,g- tn.g. i ·lti••It,.; • !.•,.;,.; \{ ... rat Jllg:' an· ll<tl ···•llllllt·ll:'lll':t\•· \\'tth rt;-; h\j><·:- .. t ••!.it'ttn!.! .1 .-Ia:\~ \.\\ acadt•it1i(' •·t!tlt'ati(Jil. \\'o· ut-:•· : ii•· tru:-;1•·t·s. il:' ,,.,. h:tvo· urgt·d tht•llJ 111<111,\ tmw:-; ttll'•llc.:h th•· .\•·;tJ·~. to gl\';• lttj• pl'lot·it;.· t\ hiking Lwnlt\ :--.t!:tl:•\ It i\ .. h. i\Il=' th:il lht· !t·n·l ,,f tht· to·adl- lll.-: ,._tall .:\ .tlt .tt ;~1!, :.111 l:i::'\Itlltl\il I!-' JU:'t .t.:' illlp(Jrt:tllt ;J>' tiJ,. •]li:t!Il\' \! :-: 1 11d~·nt ;tl tr·utling it in d..to·nnining lht• ! ,_, i f • , d 1 • i : ~t ·: 1 ~ i n t 1 , bt · , d;! P l\t • { I . \;t111i dh· '.\·, :tt•· J 1 iljtll\ :d>ollt tho· plan . ..; !11r 1\t'W butld- rn: . .> 1:1:! 1 1 ·'····111:-' t\ 11~ that tht• ht·art tJf lht· t·\ll•·;.:-•· ;iti.d !li.!t]il:-:, !i't· I t,~~~:!t lliJil~ ;-!l't·' illlft!\tJ\'t tL l'1r1··n '\ :, :-'t:1:t!l ••tllt·g•· Ill a \\'lll'ld ct! th•· b1~ Ulll\'t•r- :~:•\. Th··lot•.ll,-:,1 ,.j i1•·\·•·:Jting \ht·lttSSII! gu .. d lat·IJit~· f>,., ,,.,·,·,_; 1'1< •l ,. ,l<'\tl<· t•,tdl ~·t·.t I' Witllt'SS 11\ll' ;-;ad tXJtt•J'i- <·'lil't ~· , .t ''~'' \·,·;d. \\'!:. ·n tilt· :<talt• l'nl\'t'l'!'ilit• . ..; ,-an \llt·r lllttit' j<il~ :JL\.! fo•\\1'! l1·;wJ.tn\' IJ11\li'S, jj j,.; IJard (II 1\t't'JI l'•tJ••l. 1.' <'Ill r•·nt 1;-..- 111 ,, f!t't·i,HJ of st·lt t•xalllll!at i1111 :tnd 1'\·:i!l;:tlt••li. t '••tJllllltl•·•·!'> \\'•liking \ll t'lllTicular r.-·fr•l111 :\ltd ,-,tl,·:Jd.tl ,.;,;111;.!•· :~1•· tt·.\ill;.!,' \u \.\'(ltk (llJt a s~·stt•m that will r·· d:tt'l' l:t• ,,lt,\ l••:td. Tin~ I:- 11!W >'l\f•· Tht• j>ll\:\'t'l t .. r tht• •. t!J,, r_,,·~·.-'··\'. ;-;t,j>. t!J,. r:11\ing of :-;alarit·s. n·sb \\'ith t IJ,.: r '\'··~-.-~ \\',· ll•·!\' t lk_'.' ,.;t·'t' tht• illl(l<lrtann· \f this and Honors Code Tit• ('orwm·cliPH-.;i-.. ts 111 fa\'tll' \f instit11ting an Hultt>lS '\.[ I •I t 1;,. t·,,l],·g·· \\',,a gr. t' with I lt·an L(Jt'k\\'()lld wlh'n !J,. :-.t\:-' tl::Jt ~rw:1 :1 nrdt·t·;,j:--;,-:-; tht· lt·n·luf maturit~· of a , ,J[,·::· , :1.:1·1!:-' It r•·,r1i:•·s :t .~r··:~t do-·:tl tll<J!'>' <d t.ltt· ;-;til- ,[.;;\ Ill '··I l!l:-> <d !tt'I.--'•Ji!ld d,•\'dtJjllllt'!ll. . \u lit,IJ\'\ t•ctdo· :tl;;\ add:-; :1 n·r·tain :tnJtlllllt <~f dignity ~ .. , '·-!!•:-:• 1: 1,~ th·· fi:1:tl l•l'<.jt'l'li•lll \! nwn ht·ing 1rcat.·d a:-; 1111'11. \\ ,. lt\JH' th·· ::-;tl!dl'nl ( 't~utH'll :u1d st urlt•lrt h()dy gl\'t• it t·\n:-i•lt·rablt thought. .. t· \'. 1 ~ . f·' I • \ I I ' I I. t·· I •• l ' ! ! T!1,· :·p·...:.• ,~t·p !~ • 1 , 1 : 1 n . r,: fw :.< \t a]: :i1e ... :llal': pt-'11· ,. '\'~ Tit• ,, .. ,, ah\:t\, \\ II' •. Ill 1 \\ ... \\! .,! : . .\> l!:t.p- I ' ' ' • ' ~ I \ . d .... ~. flj!•t•L !II ll 1 1'\' 0 _,.·'Ill ... :,d111Ul • '•' ',\ t-,j _\'• •\1 .II t·'. :0•1!) ....,)ll tl,il1 j ,•II :.1 - .. •I: 1 <t ~ • q· ,. :1 r ~ a ,·~~rn· '.P:t· .... a::d a~ Ill·,<. ! .. ' 1 I' . .t~Jl. ~~~-·:t.J t~jf-';-.t·' ,, .. •, '•It' <';[]o·f•tJ'\. T':o··y ·.\L}l · l .:1· • · 1 • i · '. · r • .t r ; ',. 1111--:1 • • f ! -'' l'1 I ,t i I: I 1 : :--: t IJ;t I : '' 1:···.:•1 I <I]J!' ',. ~' ~ • ': ._ •. i) l .., :. I \\ t •• t-• d 11\\ I < \' 1 ,\ 1 >I 1 f.t;:;j !, ~ I' (-:l;q.tt•r .. \ ]..;1! . ' ,( ~ ' • I· :~ ,, I 1\. 1 ,, •\\ .\-ll<l. t I' I' I ',.,.!I <t : t\ \\ \I - ~ .\ 'IJ' I• 'l-... ! l. l'.l !J. ~•-·!' IJ~lt·~·,q- ~~~ .\\UJ' !.t\\\- •,'t' !1 t·-lld, lliak:fl:._: \.H~'Ut• lt>f- • I • Jl ~-· • r r 1 1 '', 1 : i : 1, , • , • !. , , ·r - ·ropkapi • • • \l'l to' id t• I' 0 • l'f'-- f 1'-. \~ !tt·J' t-'!PI ttt' t•,t• J'DJlt·' ''i'l'·\~--- ;;, .. , ... ltd ,,_\' Ufl!,t·:l 1 :llaj, .. ~U~JH'lt~t· \\'l;.t: \\ill ~~u r lu·f1H'.- .\- I \\:t:,·lw,J :hi~ .!.· •, 'llf'j! ... 1·:!1t I d' ir1;.! dr:un;t \f ~ I . : '. l . ~ 't' 1 I I .... l ~ .... . I I (\':;I 'l' t I. (·I ( J _ .. t•t I I I I :. I •• ' . ... • i ~ ) I ~ I <I lJ I\ l ~ ,J I l f I • t t. 't I f. l'hui\l-!raph~ anrl \In~iral :-;l'ort• ll··t.t·i .\lt·;_ ,.· .... tlJ~:tJ.!'ll~L··~·r~~ (td- p· 1d··~·r.qt 1 t~ ,.f ti t• fiin1'\' .,,_,.ll',l•.t:~ :VI:ddlt• 1-:ot:'!l'llt ;-.\'\- ! ~ !:.•:t··•d t',tJ11;\;tL!.;.!. lin\\- •·'' • ll;~_.. .... !. ci~J,~irn.Jtt\1~;~- dJJ••t·t....; • ,. ,·,~JJit·r;t ~.,,,ard.,., lnt1g, ;t!ld t111l ,' '' :tJ•f't·.tl !::..!. t'~'''t' tiJI..._ t•f t'~lt' \\•· •·! ! .. ~ ilf<·. \1..Jill:t }}t'l't'OU!;, ;1.-. -!tt· ''l!l•· .... IJltl\·t•s 'lll'r hip~ and •: :tl.•-·:-- •t•llt:' k.-- . ..; ut!wr :-'l'lt~tlal :..•·-..'~1 r·1· \\ ll,t'!l do Jp•~ t'ulllt·· \ff .t\' ·.·--~~.- o~Jqw:.t 1 :tl1-!. ()tu~ t,J· \Top· '.or• \ >:~gh \\\'\ i~ lh•• t':tlc·l!y '\\' .-.d -•···n· \f :\l:t!IOS I !:l!! iida- ;, ... \\ :~·· h~.td Lit' natltlll htunr.ning L ;.- t-''illaliy pll·~t.:--:tn! ruu-...tl' ill ••\:,·\t··t \'' ~und~ty.\ !.ad\ of Brio \T •pi-..1p:\ i-.. itl:-.!· aLt•~lH'I 1 Ull- f ~ _,. :r1 II t·,art.t)l~~· 11f wl1:tt ha~ '·~·~·.,·r·,. ;1 't·rr Jt(IIJtllat t n·11d in ':t· :•all :h;t~ IH11\i1· rn:-d,t·J~ h;1\e '·• •·11· ····-··:·llg tlt•·:1· pultli,· fur llll' :.!:---'· t'1'\\ ~ t-•;tr·:-- !It(-' l·lt:(', :---u~pt·JJ~l' i •ll!:t•Cl:.. {t\' :->lfJt,, :till! j;-.; PfltPJ\ .. t;~ .!!ltl~·r•' IIi,\\-,··\ t··r~ lla=-- ..... ltt' .... f.:ltl Lck~ th1-- l,l'jll pf rtlalt\' ul tt·r-· .... ' 1 ' 1 :•-·t r<t/'1.],.~-dazzl,. dr;~rna:-- \\l~:~··t lj_[\.(l ,.,,,nt· ~~rr qu:t~.· t·ffv,·- :J\•·1_\. 1: ;;l.tf, ... 11/-iginaitl\. aJtd ~.~~r il\llt'< t<TIIIllJ..!h t~• ~ta·,,d u 1 , i'l\udh l«r tlw \\llsl'll><t· that 1t ll,:.;pit<· it- ll'llllH'I'ttliS failing,;, .I••Uid lw,:t:tl:tigly !'l'<'<'lltl!H'!td ··T~~pk.q•J\ a .... a ~~~lilt' f\r t.~.:·~t- \\. ;lJ \. :---t'tJt!-.·rtt:--. 11 l•l.l' 1:-- rtliJJJ!, ''lltollg!,. :lw at.~ul.!itit•,< oi' tili~ f:l1n !night lH· \' ,.,:J.,\ke \I ''''\II \r.tirtg. Find \\'·' 111 'Ill\\'•' Jlt'lljdc· -.,C)()JI. Ht• \\·ill flclt : ... -i:ft'.,·u!· t .. find. Ht•'ll hL· ,;it- : '\l-1 :t!\\'' :11 '.ill· I:ath:ik<·ll:tr \~' ,, : iJt·· :tl:-tq,titl study on a party \\ n·k··r11l. :':tying lwllo 111 hill! \I• • :tr11pu- '' i:l insun· hi~ l'ullt· p!t·•tt· dt·\'o: Jt~IJ ~!I you lWl'flU:ie, if ~ ''\ an-· It,\ !'1 .t··11d, y .. u'll proha- td~ !•t·· l1i-.. j•rrh fr ;1·1td. \\'ilt-·fl ptt·p;;t.:t~_nfl:' fur yonr 1 11 11: (I:· \\ .~ ..... \\ ·th lht• Jll'tJfp;-:.~,~~- ! ... '. t' !wt·:~ 't•lnJdt:~:~,•,L l'<'lllallt ,·;:lnL l':ut.~·\,;ng t•ll tht-· t·x:1n1 :.,··- 1 •lltJ•!i:--i.t· .. r:~~titirtJ.:·. Ilt>nH·nliH.·r I'> 1·,·:p.•· '<:: T·,.. l''·\f tmt~· k11ow 1111•1'l' a!~~~u: t tl1·· ct~Ur~~· than \'ull ~i~·. :.u: \~·u ;,,, . ..,itt.tJ:~·r t!tall· ht· :\'l.t:',,-· :--tltt• \'••ur , .. _..., .... :t\·~ :-;a\· .\:.~t· .\\U ~;::: :. ft• ·''~uld ·!tl.(• t~' :,,·aJ. \-\'r 't· tit•\\ 11 t•\t'I \ flfl'llldla ,\\tiU l,Ltt\\ a!1d pl11g f! \ alttl·~. :trtJa; ,·t.t··d:: l.;l:-o _ ... ,t\t·~l tllt· :tnd • I ~~ t i -. t \I' \-t JU t••• '. I lllli'\ ···( ,j ~ \-\ :II: (I\' .tilt II p:ly '1,-'t ~tll:-:t• 11 : ~itt·• :tfl,tl(]]]; 1d ',\ •JI k h:t\'t• t.11 1!t1 J•(··f~,rt· 1-~ I·' tllt' I II~ If•! ... · .ii ' lilt'. I' r 1 r w . 1 1 ~, • .. , ... ht··r. ~II)) j I 'f j II\\ , :· Tl:~·,,··, Cttrricztltl111. 1 ( ·~·nt tllll'd frtllll Pag•· :) J 1 u1 rt·Ttt t'i.t~·~tl~ \ d .... , u ..... -:\\~ 1-\ ''\~ ~ l'~ ll'! \:tiL. 1·:\t'/JtU~t!l). h·,\\t·\·--1. -.olutr\''' '\ii !J,. 1 •·:t,·l.··d th:.t \11ll 1~·-·mp~ :~~ j._!.\t·· :..!.lt··:ttt·r· d•-·fitt.L~~n ,. tflt· ;t.!L~ .,f J..:.:h•·l t·dt!l':t\i»JI ;t( l ! I; 1JfL Ski ln~lrtu·tor~ ./F:t_kl_'nd po~•ltons ovoilob!e for k.tr .. to •nstruct h•qh school boy.:, 'lnd qtr;!:. Pr10r 1nslrucf•on exp€-r· nee not rPqutred Gooc:t compen at •. on facilities. \'/nle or (ell SHAKER VILLAGE SKI GROUP P.O. Box 1149, Pittsfield, Mass. Lebanon Springs !N.Y.! 7-1255 )'TTTTTTTYY\\TTT'TT'TT~..,..-T ~ ~ STUDENT TRAVEl. ~ ~ • College Tours j ~ • College Study Programs ~ ~ ~ ~ STUDENT & FACULTY ~ f GR;;,~;,.:0 0 ~RS ~ t LOWEST PRICES ~ ~ Boolts Now open for ~ ~ Christmas and Recess 1 ~ Vacations 1 ~ Schenectady Travel ~ ~ Bureau, Inc. ~ ~ Est. 1930 ~ 424 STATE ST. ~ SCHENECTADY, N.Y . ~ PHONE FR 7-8506 ~ Agents For All Leading Airlines- ~ S S. Companies - Railroads and t Car Rental Cos. ........................................ Friday, November 6, 1964 Cantpus Calendar '\o\l'llth<•J li \oi 1: :•·! dl' · 1 ,,, L.p 1:. i\ F,,,·ult~ f:,;oi.:t·. 1-! •. tl·· 1·!.,,,_,. l·':~•·lltl) L-·tt!.~ ;>-.: !Ill I'. i 1 .. \ lt · :·; t \ , 1 1 • , '1 \ , I : • \ J, I~ , • • ; 1 ; ( -! : I I •. 1 • -.... : r 11 ' l'· ·. t 1JllllltU11il,\ \ t \ill'! • ....:1, '. 1.,, :\'l•·!f '•! ;al I h.tJwi. -::::r1 p.'l:. \\' t•mlwr !I t 11:1t-d :'tat•, 1.11\ill~t-•, l!i;IHI i \·-''t 1;:· . .:-i. It.: ... II·.,., :-;•,,d,·nt .l.lll. ::,I I !I p .. 1., ~~ ll.ll! 1-1 i-..;111 ~ l ·tlll p.11 . \lai\l• \\',·< t ··tl··~· l.tltt.tr~. '\ \\' m ht · r· I o I !-' 1 · .I], .. ,·! 111!.! • II , .; ,.. II \ .. ,< • 11 \. • t 1. .. , 11 , ·, ~ ::~Jl p.llt. ( ·~·IJ\ tll'at'J,I/1, I h \'t·! \'\I ( ;.,'., l:. :\JJ, :1:• ... t! !'!JaJH'l. I I ::: r J a. , , ! . :\n\t•mlwr II \,;~\\' !lil·i,-,.,, lnl\tllt.tl:\'' T.·:ttt, ':\\ ; 11 r:.-'l:llll p.:ll.: II :tit·' II •It-• :'''ll•kl t 1 \'.il\ ... :'\o\l'lllht-r 1:! :\it\~ tl!'t'it't 1, l!tl••!:J·~,· 'j, :ttl. \'t:jJ 1 :1 ·l:llll p.:n .. ll:dt· 1-f,,u ..... · ~ludt··tt~ .P'l'l:.:• '\o\l'lllht•r 1:1 Ftltt' :'··II•·-. 1-:l·:::~. -:-:\\ .11:<1 :r:1111 p \\· ':'h\\' th•• }'!~ll\1! J-'!:t~~ I,\ Center Is Read)r f1~or Use l !i,Pii { 11,1\,.\:..!l' t\illliflU .. l I ll'!l tl·r i:-> !111\\ 111 •. L po~Jt.,•!; '., ,.: . ··: a:-~-si:--Ltllt'l' ~-~, :aft~ (t,·u't~ !t.···n·, ... , \\ 11,. t t·t·b !It' n:t~ :t pr ,J!,]t-'llt llllgllt 'Je :tlllt·'lltlail!c· l11 '''!' i'~l~· :-~~.turtt~ll, an·,q ~1 11_:.; t•• I Jldt· .... ·-•~1 T. I:. Jl,ffm:•\ nr til•· 1-:l .. ···t, ···\ L!lglrrt·t•rirr~ I lt·p:tl llllt..'!Jt. !.it<' ran .\.ppl11:at wn .-\tlJ,\rt·~·L~ittlt:-1 ~LI't• ••IJ\ lutl:-. t··•;tl~.g]. i11 lnat~t·r_-... ,,f ..... -it•ll:il'it· r;,:,·~d:t :'\\\· appl:v•l m:ttll!'lllattt' .. '• a11>1 . ..:.tati~tit·a. l'l'tlll,•!ll.lt':-1, Hu\\t•\t-'l, tlw lihl·ct! art.~ t'antlty may \'\\ .lll~t.kt• l'Xtt.~nsi\'e tl . ....,L' of till• cuJtl. putPr in li'n:tltl!'t' and hi-t\'~­ H<'<'l'lll . \11t ,.;-:-~ rattordian:<, lu1· tlt· st:tiH't•, h,l\'t• USl'd I'DIIlpUll'l..; ;, show, ttll th<' hast:> of wnnl 1 n·- '1\l<'llt'it•,;, tlt:1t Shakt'\P•·ar•· d.<i !Jilt \\ l'llt• ... 11]\ll' II!' :·dl td h>.; pl.t~· ..... . \II • ,• fit' I jll ,....,:\'j ~ ,: t·' clt I t·'1'l !t '!. f. •I' l \.- p}•J}';,Llltltl lJL~lit itt' Ill :!H.' t:t•J,t 1Jl J!Ul'l'l). :nl',I•JU.ttll' jtt~t·tty \\ Jl:- lltg, t'a;-;dy \\ ith:11 tl~t· ··:lpal,il·: , . .., pf Ulil' l'OIIl!Jll!L•l. ·rhu-..t• in tht• ... ,w,~d ·<ud.~-·~ British Election tContllttll'll from l'ag-;.; :;1 t•Jt•d ;tt· tht• ttpt··ning 1d :h•· ;1•·\\ l',lllia!>,..lll thi.' \\•--•k. !.lr;,. run h· 1 I'\·'< -l, .. uid I\ •- ltap .... bt· .ttldt·(!. .\p:u t :·r·•:t tllj· ,,·rr:tti~•rl~tliz,t: l\L ·ol ...... :·,., .. j ;tr.d 1 t··r t:t:n : .. t-'''~''1':-- ut n•.td ~~~u:-\'fl\!', ~L. l.al•\UI ~11\t'l'lill~~-ll: ;- l.\t t •·!! fl .• ttt•d ltt ;-tll~ =-'!'t'l'llit I\\'...'I01f!.ll~·· 11f t-·\.tt·'IH\itl!!, _fJLthltl ·~~\1••-·t._,!-Jl ,t( tndu.-tty. L\[H r .• lh• .. r tlii· .• .. ,1-.. If l!- 11f LhP i11du~tr :1·_ ... :4:rt-·a~h r ~~­ tJIIfi:diz.,d .-lJ:.,:~f':\\>!;-- tlt;t~ 11t1;! ::.:.!Jt p;dJ]:t• 11\.\lll\'l_.. : ... f 1 11~ Jlo•t't•..._ ... ,tl· : r ,\ th• bt·.:--t' \\a~ :, 1 111, ,!,····· t ht p~tbL,· :Jlll'!l·':--1. ~\[\Jt·rl\vl 11: J!r i- ~-LII tLl· l.abrllif !J,rl\ t ·•,, r.t ha ... ah\ .t~ ... bt t··n illflut··t,n\d 11·· 11 1·· hy ·~:t· .,,,·.~d l.''li..-•-i•·lp·, ;of i~~ ~ .. •·!f i\ < .• :l.a11 ll\ tl11• .J,, ': .Jo•·· .. j \' l .~l.:--!1 T~}.. !t I~-\\.:.~ dill.'., :ll- :t)ll-', ... i11 tht· J•:u·t~ ,,f'h·L trrak•·· :h, Hil 1 :-:t l~t'i.-t'. hut thl'~ \' ,. u-u~dl~ \l1!11! 1 •1Ity, at·tl tiw .-llt··r~::.:th ·~f :],, .. !J<tll~ Iii\' ,,, ill;.tt'L!~ \' :J, ... :t· .. ;-. \'ot·al hut ult:n.a!t·l\ ~~~~~~·· .n· .t'lut•nL:tl Jll'~Jl..!:rua~i:-:t_... ~·r\tiP· lt-'ll~·tt· .111d IlCht. • ~~~ \- • j • ~L .... tlrtt· 1~1- .... :: •;a.t· t;I~-.Hiy v:t'.!:\iitlllt'\t'!J It· • ··lllp~ltt··r ,ts ~~ tool :· .... ~ ~~~.~~ .:('l\J.-..JliJJ Jllal,:ng. •' ·: :t:Jo't', 1 1 .. \\ \\o1tdd t·h~illg't' . ..; 1 •!:1~•,,:, ;!!:;.ttit,l·~ ;LI'ft·\·t tax. I,\! j'-., :..! ltJ ,\: ::, (-' l I~~~~~~~. t-•tt' 01 , ( )t t •·-. .::, ... ~ li, 1- • r:illt··n· \'lll'ltd:n~. ~~r .1! ,,• it: 1 Ji,!JJ'H'/ tt!. ~·.!I<IH,\\ al- l. I '~--I I ,, ,{ .. ~ I I 'I!' i II/. l. \ i I j g ill . 'I' fl.t-' 1 ,,.,-.~·!1·', .If:, I :l!•\\ tlli!!,h: ~·~ ·r,;'Iu{·!,,-,. ltil·' rl!·\.t dt·t·ad,-··.- ·: ,.,,_,._,!.iltlit•\ lli~l'll\'-~··<.1 \ ... ~.~~ i ·d :111l1 ..... :udt·r;~:-=.. \\·ur].;. ~:1::. d' •!··' l,~\ft··_ .... _...,q ll~~ffrn:ttt, i ... ..•. t:,!. .~·tlt:tL!t•ll •H· -..p,·~ .•. 1 !'''' 1 1;.'111\'. T!1e Lt~·~drv tJ1•·t r 1 ·)I-' 1 1 t'·'l·'• i \\ 111,\\ f 1 1 ,. !till:..!. ~l! Jtl u't ' 11 11!)1\1 \~-. tq ~·l llt'J~ f'Jli~.!.J':fJllllJg', \· ~- i\~t ·~-~- .1 :y u .... r:·ful ,,r intt·•rM t'·'l' ~ l•·:t ,._ 'i. J~>,_,_ ... ltJlt·· t'tllllJlUt- •-·1 tPjtl·• !''• 1 ! .... ,\ II !It' di:-.t'U~ . ..;l·d ,,t':•i. f,•,t..,, 1;,., ',\ 11 !H' JHll.~llt\' ,\;L! t.:.· :!.t:'··~~ :o!!.t' 't\~t:l.a!dt·. .\;: f'n!'lt .._•.... :.i\'~ w fll.Ult-' ·,,, 1 ll~ ' }{ ·1 I :1.~1' ·\ :t t' ~..: I ( •Hit', • • • VAH CURLER MUSIC SHOP 501 State Street RECORDS MUSIC JAZZ POPS Student Discounts CLASSICS ~:::::::::~~~~~-~ Let the Jager freely flow . A unique place to dint with old Europtan Atmusphtrt· NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 Stale and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR <1-891 7 For three Generations • Those Who Know Have been recommending . . HERSH[L MAURICE B WALTER ' 1 3 Vnion Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY r • day, Nove Bra 'Lib~ Brat HI• ; Ill' uppo~i1 i't HllliS. l.i lw l':tl ' i 1·'t'll t' 1 ad it j, .I l.t .... t :--:,u-i! / ~ J'l·'\ ::--t·d 'J~tl dllt')Jj: t I ') tl'll \\ !J, II 'I ll.tl t.rtt•\ 1 !1 11 'l 'llllll'' :\' ; I ~ t • lllllill:dt· :tl' I It• .-\ 'It l I t' \ t ill'; ttil' Ill Tradit \: II Ill' ' . ... :t Ill·' d1tl J,l'ltdJlc'j.\• d pit rt \I l l!t I: r.urd. i :--; l · 11 1 t·T! 1 I t1 !'t-•' l · j l'('l.., I,,. ! h !~ 1111dt·r t·lll·' ,., , \ l'I',...;Jt_\' uffj \'' l'l·c,ul:ttv l .. t• Xv:4 till l\.t i•d't•d ll,\ i:ll , · J ! ~u I!.!'<' ll 'I~ ; l,t:-..t ~PI tl!g 0 ·,I t•ai.:Ill 11U~j . ,,a:,.. :.II ' , 1'\Jt• dl''L' :---11111 1 ', ·~ i dwt . l'ar I )t-'.1 I! \1 ( \! 1t I J ;:\\> ..._, • .\ t·' ·p: 11•fl ha .... : ..... 1 t. li :..!- I'll! t·· rtJ•·i~ t:l• IJ· I! lj 1!\• 1 j I! J; ll I', ~\'·:a I ~ :t lilt· t : l .... t'' ~ ... :•11111: 1 1ll.\' I< c:.t''h·t.'\~' , ! I<~ I I : t 11}1]'0' · ··· I ),·:t!l •at Saturda; Cancele, l'ht• F:\·ul :~1.-!. rh:~ \\'l't-' · .. \~tllll~ 'itt• • !~l-..:-'ot':\'l •!II ~. ,., tdwi I L • : f i I ., .. ~ l ; [ t j I >f : , ...... r ~-~I t.' ~ 1 t II 1!; 1;d ~ o..' :tr - 'J (f I• :t-•fl' l ',\'. \!. 'It•' I !'11 I lt 1 \\'t·dr, II\ •'Ill! I 'I I 't':.l lll!tll I ,I iII} tll-\' ~ !Lti<- ll· ::It i I I :II(! l' , )II j'~ [[Jt it it•--: !..! rad·r~llt·· ... ;_, \:n~. TJ.,. t··ll t' t' 11.1 I I l :-' 0 \\ • }; it·',,.,. :t .\Iii iL,\t• I If! t hl· \,I j'j : · • I i1, 1\ I! Ill< I t ~ 111 t~ I I·'~ 'l!ill1ar~· ol,! ·,.·t·r ;tn· 11 ·ht· irll\~t·lu: ·:·l':n·r. pro;: t .:-<. :\a\ y. ' I I I I I Your hOIDI ! hear I I I wants I right no waiting phone a phon best th , • Ne' L __ - __ Youg

6, 1964 day, November 6, 1964 5 Brandeis Curtails I Freshmen Elections ••• I I S c I ing· entertainment in the Raths- .1 • • • • • kellar. He suggested that Student Council, Inc., which controls the ) '~Liberal Dorn~ Policy (Continued from Page 1) I ing, less than fifty freshmen I (Continued from Page l) Rathskellar, sponsor a folk sin- p ointed up an even closer race showed up. ger. He presented a message On the whole a great deal can accepted by the Student Council. from Prof AHen, Chairman of Di- with Steve Ritterbush beating his he said for the improvement ofj The five members are: John Per- vision II, who requested that only opponent, Gil Keegan, by only th '· 11 t' b 1 b th h' 1 pel, · Chapel, ., m.-4:00 oot the ;I in- I . a tool making. f changes tax Or, or af- in might 'l « work- is on faculty ~, about inter- comput- fl> pursued made st come, 1t t! • ~ ' -.~. ,, l• ~ ) ICS .. • • • ; I>!J Brandeis University has announced that visitors of ill the opposite sex will no longer he allowed in dormitory rooms. Liberal visiting privileges had<$--- \~een traditional at Brandeis un- . 8 . I ., til last Spring, when the Univer- . a· arieS • • • sity revised its policy to insure that dormitory rooms were left ~pe!1 when a member of the,:op- · JiOSlte sex was present. Smce · (Continued fron1 Page 1) ClasH E C that time the visiting rules lm ve llowlim< Green St. l\ni\·.; I>n·w t:ntv.; become stdcter. The decision to l.n<l. 1'ni>·.; Lehigh l'ni;·.; Ohio st. t:nl\'.; P.;,u:sons Coll.; Poly. ln~t.. of ill'Ooldyn: eliminate all visiting will go into st. Univ. of Iowa; HyraeuMe L'nlv.; Unlv. ~'ffect at the beginning of the · of Colo.; Univ. of ~finn.; l'nlv. of next .academic year. \\'ash.: Unlv. of Wis.; \'anderbilt L'nlv.; ~1ashlngton and LP€' t'niv.; \'Washington Traditionally Liberal . Gnlv.; Y<'shlva L:niv.; Class C n 1 At ~me time the freedom to {·isit the dormitory rooms of the Ball St. Tchrs. Cull.; Deloit Cull.; members 0f the opposite sex WaS Bmv-doin Coli.; l'arroll Cull.; Central Rt. t f th • 1 h'l h f Coli. (Ohio); Chicago City Jr. Colls.- a par 0 e SOCia p 1 osop ·Y 0 · \\\ilson and \Yrig·ht Branches; Cla1·emunt Brandeis University. It has only. Grad. Sch. and t:niv. L'ent .. r; Cull. of ;4een in recent years that the ef- the Holy Cross; Colo. Cull.; Conn. Coil.; fects of this freedom have come Denison l'nlv.; t•'la. l'''''Hh. <'oil.; Gal- laudet Call.; Glassbom St. l'nll.; Goucher under the critical scrutiny of Un- · cull.; Je,·sc'Y City l'L con.; Kent St. i\'ersi-ty officials. The decision Unlv.; Lawn·m·e Cull.; Long Island Jto regulate relations between the Unlv.; :vnch. St. \'niv.; Mills Cull.; Montrlalr St. Coli,; X<'wark Coli. of sexes on campus was not mir-. Ens·. Paterson st. Coil.; POll'\ona Coil.; rorec\ by any significant policy Queensburough Com. Cull.; Reed Cull.; change until the decision made Roosevelt t:niv.; Rutgers L'nlv.; St. last spring·. After the initial l\1o·rY's CoiL of Calif.; Stevens Inst. of ~ Tech.; 1'renton St. Col!.; Trinity Coli. oreakthrough the decision to elim- (Conn.>; L'ni;•. of Akron; Wllliamantlc inate all visiting came swiftly. St. Col!. The decision was announced this The AAUP Bulletin also gives October. the average amount each college ~ Parties Allowed spends in faculty compensation Dean of Students Kermit C. pet· student. Union's average is Morrissey explained that one ex- $956. This places Union in a ception has been made to the no pool' comparative position in re- ~isiting rule. On those occasions :g-ard to many Gther schools. Wes- which the Dean of Students deems feyan, Amhet·st, and Princeton all appropriate, parties and other compensate their professors more social gatherings of membe1·s of than fifty per .cent per student l:'oth sexes may be allowed in better than Gnion. Yale, Smith, dormitory rooms. However, these Bennington, Williams, Vassar, g·atherings will be contingent Reed, ami Swarthmore all have upon approval of the Office of an average of over a thousand the Dean of Students. dollars per student per year. Tra- 1' ditional rival, Hamilton, pays Saturday Classes Canceled ·~ The Faculty Council, at a meet- ing this week, passed a resolution favoring the cancellation of 10:30 classes on Saturday morning, No- '§ember 14. The reason for the· cancellation is that the faculty desired to give any buses or cars going to the Union-Hamilton \ootball game at Clinton, N. Y. ~ufficient time to arrive fo1· the game. All 8:30 and 9:30 classes will be held as seheduled. ~avy Recruiting :»tanned On Wednesday anti Thursday, .•• ~ovember 11th and 12th, a Navy 1ffice information team will be ' n campus at the Student Lounge : 1 Hale House from 9:00 A.M. 1 1.1mtil 4:00 P.M. to discuss the op- ])Ortunities available to college gTaduates as officers in the U.S. • Navy. The information team of lieutenants junior grade Ralph . ~JV. Bieber and John C. McGlin-cey , will have information available ' on the various officer programs for both men and women. Stuci- ~nts interested in fulfilling theit· military obligation as a naval of- ficer are invitecl to discuss with the information team the many ·@fficer programs available in the U.S. Navy. more than Union, with an aver- age of $982. the way in which the camiJaig·n ra, George S\uires John Haus- · e uU' e m oarc Y e t u·c twelve votes, 136 to 124. His '1 fl · 11 b d was conducted. Man,y freshmen mun, William Nicolay and John · oor stau·we e use for no- marg·in of victory was a slim · F · 1 · f d l were alienated into apathy by the Geer. The b1·o alternates are: tiCes. azto a so m orme t 1e 4 · 6 ~< • gaudy, meaningless signs that Tom Spencer and Ted Swirat. co1:1ncil of his petition to cancel The campaign on the whole was plastered West College. In their Members of the Shtdent Traffic classes the day of the Hamilton mal'ked by the presence of a rela- zeal for election some candidates Court are not necessarily mem- football game Saturday, Novem- tively new issue. Blumenthal went to extremes in their )!)las- I.Jers of the Student Council. 1 her 14. The administration has brought out for the first time tet'ing of posters over and their . . . . I not given any answer yet. , the idea of a freshman constitu- copying of the posters and ·plat- .\cttvttles Committee Report W k d 8 . . · ' ee en uccess tion. He promised that if elected forms of the opposttron. Several Larry McCt·ay g·ave a re]Jort of· p. 'cl t f tl s 1 he would call a Convention, to be dtsputes broke out when posters . . . . . 1 rest .en ° le 0 P lOmore held a few days after the election, were found trampled on the hts Student Acttytttes Commtttee. 'I class Lm Parker reported that h · h ld t 'tt . d 1 ,., d f. th . He stated that m the Freshman Fall Weekend was a success. He w Ic wou · se up a commr ee g 0 10 stuen 1 _s anc suspen\e tom 0 er primaries for class presiden, Wil- 1 re1wrted that the freshman-so- in .the history of any Union A gt:eat many freshmen were liam Blumenthal and ~ames Mac- p~omore rivalry has continued to draw up the first constitution P · I I Freshman class. As Blumenthal alarmerl at what they considered D~nald emer!?ed the \:mners. He I w1th a lacr?sse game,. The con- sees it, a p1·esident should be to be a great lack of sincerity on satd that ht;=; com.mittee w~uld 1 test ended 111 a 2-2 tte. more of a coordinator than a the part of the candidates in the ht'Y 1 1 tt~ cool:dthtnatet dmtetrcollt~g:~te' p . leader. He should not impose election. Many sources felt this a 1 e. Jcs \' 1 s 1 ~ en ac tvn~s. atromze his will on .the class but be re- to have been the major factor in McCt ay also men bone~ that ctg- ~ sponsive to the will of the class. the low tum-out. are~te and s_oda machmes would I Our Advertisers lie geared his entire campaign Both candidates expressed dis- be. mstallecl 10 .Potter Ho~se. dor- i -.;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;,;;;;;;;;;;;;;,;;;,;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ around this base. His opponent, appointment at the low turnout nutory. He sa.td th~t Phl Slgma '\\ James MacDonald, put forth a on Wednesday for the campaign I Kappa . fr~ter~Ity wi.s~e? !o use: RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT platform of stable proposals, most speeches, and many freshmen, in- the bml.dl':l~g. as then Iestdence: DRUG SUNDRIES important of which constituted a ~luding the candidates, have sug-1 The dot nu~or Y wa~ the ~or mel Sunday Brunch run by the fresh- gested a better run and organized I !lome of Kappa Sigma fratern- , FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES NOTIONS I 1ty BAR SUPPLIES NOVELTIES men, with freshmen as paid work- campaign in the future, with bet-1 · · : POLYETHELENE ers, and a system of intramural ter planning on the part of the 1 In the President's report, Vic CELLOPHANE sports. Both candidates favored election committee. I Fazio mentioned plans for hav- 1 RENTALS: GLASSWARE DISHES monthly meetings of the fresh- 1 SILVERWARE man class, and stressed the idea of the pO'tential of making this class the best in the school's his- tory. .Surpl'isingly there was a con- siderable degree of apathy in the presidential election. Almost 18% of the freshman class failed to vote. One possible explanation for this seemed to lie in the lack of familiat•ity witl1 both candi- dates. Although Blumenthal per- sonally werut around distributing his campaign mate1·ial, a surpris- ing number of students knew lit- tle about his platform. But when g.iven the opportunity to meet the ~andida.tes and find out the real issues of the campaign in the speech making Wednesday even- Exciting New Designs DACY PAPER CO. IN SCHENECTADY YOUR . . . Successor to J. NOGEE & SONS, Inc. Authorized KEEPSAKE Jeweler is Established 1888 WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS PAPER-PAPER BAGS TIME CENTER JEWELERS STATIONERY- SCHOOL SUPPLIES 428 STATE ST. FR 4-0183 Phone FR 4-4429 28-34 N. Broadway Schenectady 5, N. Y. _. raduates If you ar.e interested in building your career in a co1Hpany that: :KE?<3~s.ak~\ Is a growing, progressive one which offers you exceptional opportunities for development and advancement, depending on your own qualifications, ambitions and willingness to work hard to get ahead. YOUI hometown heart tfirob ... wants to hear from you right now. So what are you waiting for? Be fond and phone today. Remember, a phone call is 'the next best thing to being there. ® ~~! !~~~h!~!!~~~~~ ' OIA\\\'C>NC RINGS True artistry is expressed in the brill'iant fashion styling of every Keepsake diamond en· gagement ring. Each seiling is a masterpiece of design, reflecting the full brilliance and beauty of the center tliamond ••• a perfect gem of flaw· less clarity, fine color and meticulous modern cut. The name, Keepsake, in the ring and on the tag is your assw:ance of fine quality and lasting satisfaction. Your very persanal Keeps'ake is awaiting your selection at your Keepsake Jeweler's store •. Find him in the yellow pages under: .. Jewelers.\' Prlces from $100 to $2500, Rings enlarged to show beauty of detail,®Trade- mark registered. -~----------------. HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING 1 Please sepd new 20-page booklet, \How To Pion Your Engagement cncl Wedding\ and new 12-page full color folder, both for only 25¢. Also, send special offer of beautiful 44-poge Bride's Book. Nam~----------------------------- I I I I I I I Addros I I C:l~ Co. ___ _stote : L_ ~E!!t-K~..!..~~ ~!!!G2 _:v.!:A5_U!: !::! .. :....! ::o:_ J Provides a 2-year On-the-Job Training Program tailored to your talents and desires, with periodic salary increases and challenging and responsible job assignments . Offers competitive salaries with an outstanding benefit program, including financial aid for advanced studies . Is one of the largest electric, gas and steam utility companies in the world ... pioneering many developments in the power field and serving New York City and adjoining Westchester County. ... all in the stimulating environment of exciting New York. See your Placement Officer; get our literature, details on our job openings; and sign up for an interview with our representative. I CAMPUS INTERVIEWS ... NOVEMBER 13 l The selection, training, promotion and all other policies of the Company affecting employees are based upon the qualifications of the individual, giving equal considr ration to all Without regard to race, color, creed or national origin. WI • \ .

1964 :. - ·j : 1111 · I :I I II 1 ~~­ 11•··1 ' ;1 ltH>I ·h~illg'v . ...; \·1·t tax ,.·.) ( )!, I: n 12., ~, r ~~~...- ~LI­ \ illg ill nliL:ht ,·ad,.·· ...... -.' ·d ' 1\\\>J'];- :t 1 I, i..,. f:l<' 1 tl I'\' ~t!H•U't i 11 lt-'1· llllljllll- )\JJ -~llt·•d :t: I a! oJ,·. ll J.l( !.· : \ t •lllt .. r • :lay, November 6, 1964 Brandeis Ctt·rtails Liberal Dortn Policy Brandt\i::o l'niven;il\' ha::; an:lulll• ,.,J t: •. tt '.i:.tlt:l:-i {)i !lll' (}P!Ht:-iih· ~vx will llll l•tng·l't· IJ,· all .. \\·,-d ;,: d\1 111il<H'\' l't JOlllS. l.iltt•J':ll \ i~ll 11:..' l'' ;, ilt\'g\':00 h~ltl• f1~reshmen Elections ill~. ' . ..... ~ • ;.a;. 'il' 1\\ ~·d II j · 1••1 ld~·~; Llll .lll t·'\l'H ll\-\'l'l l'aL't' ,, 1:,, ~tt·\-'· J~.tt_, rhu-.h t)l·atln~ hi_..; t 'II t . 't. \\ It• o! I' \!'IHI'fll r,~. I ;,l 1-\t·l'~'-alt, !Jy d/dy 1 '\' l .. t· - .t.· I : . ~ ,!, ,\ : • t,\,··l-,l· \•l~t·--., 1:;1; t'1 1~1. 11;~ .\'l.t.:. 'It·'\- '!1• !; •. LI :.'II I•; ··' ·,\l'J't' ,l;,l'!:.t!t·l! .!. ,, .1Jl.t'i<\ :.' ;;t Uti,\ . :II t •;t r I . I,~' , · ~ ! , • 0 II;' <I'''. I·-·~·· \' ll I .'- : I : , .. - ' ,) t, •.•. , \\ ' -•' II' rill I . ' l • ....: i I • ~ ,,,.,,' , .. ,._ ' o .I <I __ (' t•.t· .J .. ,,., j '•' I II.. .. .l:.d .) .. · !, 1 o,l 0 1'..._ ;1! I\ 5 . ' 1: .. · ... iJ, ,.____: 'I ·, . . .. . I . , I:.,. \·'' .. ;•. { •' II- ,_ ' .. :. I': \ .. I• •!. II. ., ' ,. !\ •'d t·'t'll t'1 adititd::d a~· 1:1 :·IJII!t-·i-.. t111~ Salaries T~w 1 .tiiiJl~lll-!11 \\'lit.· ·,d't\ll' \\'~t..; pi.t~tt··rt··d \-\'. -' t -~~ t·:·~-- I· ·~·~··.t iltarked 1,~ lftt· JHt':-'.t'IWt·· of a n·la~ zt·_tl }111 t·l~·~ti~HI ~, ~ .. ,. , .d.•!.•..-l'• 1 ••_cl: t ', .. ' t•' .... ~. t l !_\ j,j,.,. ( ·d,tllt : 1 . II •·''I :..: ~-ll l .... ·;,,· ·.·.; '\ '' . -.I ]., ... t :--:!'rir,~··, '' :h·tt rh,. l'IJI\ t··r- • ~~ J't·'\ ::--t·d 1t'~ piilit•y t'' ;1!-..,lliP 'l~·tt ,,,,,.!ll:tltJ'\' )\lll)Jl:-.: \\t-•Jt• i~·:t ·]It'll \\ !J, II a .lllt-'Jli!H•J ut t:Jt-' ''P- ),,, .. ;' l' :O.l'\ \\ ~l .. Jll t';o..l''J,t. ~iilt t• II. It t jIll,.. l ! It. \ i ... t iII}-! J' tilt._... i I ;t \ I' lt't'lllllt-' :--! ,)t•!t·J. T~w dt·,·, .... jt~IJ !11 I i tn i 11:t t t· :_t! I \ ! ...: . 1 111_t: ~·· 1 i l :,;: ~, 1 r 1 t11 llt•t·t .tt t:ll' IH·g\llilld•~ ,,:' t~lt' \\' \ t ill' ;JI ll'lllll' ~ t·•;t I • Traditional;~ l.ih .. ral '' ,. 1 t. •'· I I \: II]H' ~.!lJl' \lit' !'J't·•t•dfJJlJ :11 I ...:t !h-• dt,IJ1li!•IIY Jt!••'ll:-. of t!Jv I 1:.:; J,t•Jt}lJt·'1 :• • 11 lltt• tlJ!fJ I~; It' \t'.\ \\ ;-t~ J ; •• ' J>~ll\t til till·' _..;,wial plttltl.,tl]lh~ uf \\ \i I:r.llld- '\ l-11:-. ,., -it\ 1•· I.a.- .. rd-. 't·'t'll It! l't'l vi'Jt \'t•;t.l ~ th:tl' tilt· e1:- ~I.· JJ. lt·<·t .... ,,r ·h: .... t',:,.t•dont ha\(' '\11w ~~-· ( i ........ H t ( (., ..... ! B 0 • I' '1\t··ly tn\ J---.sut·. B]unp··nthal \'.t·J1'. 1'\'r~·J!r• ~ ... jl' r r~ . .~· 'H 11 Li:.!hl •Ill! lt!f th,-· t'ir~t tilut· :t·r ,.!...! ,, p•·--·~-r ... ,,,,., .u:.J t t·j! :!u-· ,,k:, .. f :1 fn·;-;.hJrtall ('tJJJ:-;titu- ,.\!J.\ 111~ ·d • w 'H,.,.,., ... :1:rd !J .• t, '!11!' Ht·· ptont;..;l'd that Jl' elt·t·tvd Jqrn ... ~·~ •i:,., .,,,.,_ ·: r :...:. ,, 1 1 It' \\'ltdd t·;IJl i.l ('IJI!\'l·•fltlllll, t'H !w rf,-jlll~' ·- 1 1/llht' ·•'t .\ ot·•l /' ,..,•, J-. tt l•i tl !'t-'\\ •l:1y- :t!\tt•t tflt· ,.]L·t·titJII, \\t\lt· ;·.,,.lll,: ': t!l'f';,., •·! , ~J!I'h ,\tJtlltl :-;t•' llJI ~~ t'll/)\fllitt{•t~ j.!'f'IJI,jf!tl .~ 1 1'' ,.,. 1 ' 1 ' 1 ! ''·'I' ...... t • tll.l\\ ltf' ~~~~- !.r·:---! t'jJfr:-:titulitJII Jl«J ... tt·•J .... .11 '1:c· · ... ~ 1 11\. ,,f· .!II\' l'Iritll\ .\ t.:lt';t' !J~<tl ~- !tt ... :llltt\' •·1 }·Jt'-\Hllt.t/1 ,J._l~ ..... _\ ... Uitlna·r,th;.tl a~:•rltlt''' :t' \'.~.:t~ ~-·· .\ ·ql,, dt·r~-·-! ' • f11 t''\\i•lt·•ltt . ...;Jt, I u l( I l ,,. ' l\tl ! It\ ,\ !...' It-•, l: J tit I ·I ~ /li\l'l .. ·• 'I:' ill< I t' ••!' .l t'IJCJJt!iJJtlttl)' tlJ~~Jl !II tltt·' Jl;t/'l ill ::It' ·',l'tll,ll~t:·,,, ,J, 't!t' .dt-•J. lit· _...ilnU1d litJl illljH>:'t··, p't··c·t·l·lf., .VI,,,\ ..... 1,,, ,.~ ~·, :t 111 • \\ li ~~~~ tht' d:l~:' l1ut t. .... n:-· 1 '\ 't,t'.l' ., ·t·r. I· II :1 i,,, '':tt''• '\-- ... J\\t• ~11 :lit' ',\ .!J td. tilt• cL.t:-.:-', I 1 ht· J,,,\ ' 1 11 ', • 1 l i-J,· :..:·· .. tl\'d II, .. l'li 1 ';J't• t'tllllpaigll n .. •l: <('jl·.!-~·t't•-.. t•·fllt··~·'· .: -- :tl •llftd tlli:-: ),;t.-l'. HL-i. opJ·lltllL'IJt,! ·i't·\ I '.'JJt'itl •i11' !),\ !'l!l··•'d .J.t:l,t' .. .\-lat(,tJ/tald, pUt fur:h a~· II \\'t·•t:!'t·'dl, '•u •;1•· •:t''ljl;, '---'' '·- •J' 'IJ•• ........ I. ,';.1] ' .. ]:: '\i t ~ l' A a 1 ··! '\! : .. : ( • I if I tf I) : : ~I I . 1:, t· ... : :r:.11 :'It ( :.I'\'~ 1•1 ,. -,!it·!'' \·V :. .,,,, ..... ,_,, \'·I .hllw' }! .,._ It •· ! ~ •·•t! ':I'· \\ l f J! I'''! ... . llr ,, .'\! ..,· tlti(·\l!' ; l ( ~· I \ , , I ' _\1. ' I :1\ ,,l: \\' • I I, t\' '•/11· d 'il.t '' t' L'_ -\d .. :l!.tt h;rw .. \\ ••ttl• . '. p,,·· .. , ll·lll'l' dtJl ,, .. ~ .. t ~ I · · 1 h. IJtlt t I' _,•, .• , '•,· J I-- J II t· I ( ., • I .. - •• t i' ... - ..... \\,.,.,,,.ltd I'·, ..... ,_[ ., ;-\ I. \\ ' . '·! ... . . Patronize Our Advertisers RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT •' ~IJJI!t..•f t·IH·' t•tltll-;11 ,t'Jittlll_\' •d \'n- ·_,I<' J, I' 11 .dl-•1111 .~f ;o;t~tl,}~:· J'IIIJ.l•':-'td~, JJltJ:-'1' ..,)Jt•t·Ti;c· .. , .l' d tll: •·:· 11 '_..,· '11•'1•, ,!:- T lJI'I-'·~t:.tll' ,,f ''iti('h cuu:--t 1 tuted ~~ 1 ·ludi11~- ··:_, •.. lt•: •• l:t·~-. ;,.t\1-' --LI!..!~ .'llrJd:ty Htlllll\h Ill II !1y the fl·t·sh- gt·--.~t-·d a :······, • 1 ,,, <tl d '\·~~~~~~~.·-~1 ll,t'll, \\it!1 l!t•:--illHt·ll i-1~ paid \\'ol'k- ,'i.tlll{)~tiL'!. .II :~.t· lU'Uit\ \\,t!; !H<- •it•·· :tl! Ill·! ~-! , L ~ t·· J I.- DRUG SUNDRIES ,\ l'r.\Jty (lffi(·ial~. ·r;~, dt·c::-'.11'1 \'' rl·c,ul:ttt· lt\l;tLt•lt~ J,,., .\t·t•JJ thv ' 1 ' ,, ... ,• ,, FOUNTAIN SUPPliES BAR SUPPliES _ .. ,.Xl·:4 u11 LtlllJ,u .. \\:t.:-- ,,,,: lltir- 1 ,, _ :•d'l'd IJ\ <:tll\' ;.;:~lt.ftt·:tllt poli{'y ·~•,, ,·Jr~tJI!.!·,. 'u·J~i!. ~ht· dt-·~-i~.,,:, rn.d!v 1 : l.t:--.t :-.111 iltg. .\r''t·:· :Ill· ,t,.lt.d \I { ·' t··r.-. ~t:,d ;t :--y ... ~elu 111' iJrtranlUl'~d '.t-'1 J 1 Lt•·!lil,~ \!. ;1.t1: ~~:· •· I •: POl YETHElENE CEllOPHANE NOTIONS NOVEL TIES RENTALS GlASSWARE Dl SHES ~ < l VE RWARE ._,!J!·J'l-.. l-!u:lt C~t/Jti.tlatL~:-; f~t\\Ul'l'd l')l'l':lult t\lt:JIIII l· 'I. ,I I III\L:.ll.' JIH't'~tl:t!.\' o~f thL• frt~:-dt- ·,I t' (\ ~~: II I t l t I~ j I ~ ; I t-• 1 i t-•t I :--. t tf. ~ • t ·ltlll- .!.a~~-- :dl ,;_,..>~till!.! j-~·tJJJt·· ... ,-..l:i,\. :-- 1!\~d: ,.;_,.., . ~t!td :-.·.n ......... ·d tht· idl'~l ill t!tt:' tH,'t•lJt!al uJ rna:'-i!l~ thl~ c·la-;.., ~·:1:-· '~t·-.· ' ~h~- :-'•'h•~td\:-r hi~- l'llt• det' :--11111 \\H .. :tll':lllll.t'• d til~:-:; .\.\\'I' I :u ;tl ... \ g:l \ l'~ tiH· :t\l-~!.l~t· ,tl!J•tll·r~ ••:t1·il l'tJl!t•g·t• Ltl!-y. l'a rt i<·-.. \I lui\ t•d I h-·.tr! h. t•f l !1 ,,( -'t 1 tt't-·n~-- -\Pt'llli... I!~ :w,ll'y ,''llfllj.Jt'll.~:t.tiu_n :':11 JHL .... llg!y :rll'ft• wa!'i ; 1 t\tJil- )lt·'l .. '•Jtit·~t'. I~ dJ ... :1\\l•l'a: t.-:. --.!•it·t:ddc• dt'l!!t'l\ of apathy in thl' \!uJ I ;:\\' .... ,.y t·\pla;l~v•l th:Jt lll.t· t•\· 'r J: l I I r l ! } Cl ... : Jt·\ t•' I ; II: II it. . I I ~· i 1 t' Ill ' hJLJi:.!- 1'\t!t-', ()~I ~·ht>>t' IH\t' J•o,':--> llll'jl ti11 fJ, .!TI ld . .''lid!•!;'..; dt•t-'111...;. t!ljJ!'t•Jil r;ltt•, pa1 ~:t•... ~tr:d ,~··;wr ,, •t·:;ll ~:tlllt'l \IIi.!,..; , ,f lltt->111 \Jt'l :\\' ••f 1 I .... , '\ .., ! ! :~·I~· :It' :t 1], I\\ t't! , It :•lllll:'tH.\\ l•HI]}[;-., tf,,,\t'\t•J'. !ht•:--P ;__ ;_(''l~t•J 1 11 '..!...:, '.\ ;; : ! 11° t\tif\ t i Jt;.!t'Jl: . I (If', ...... r -~~,,-.!;, [' ,J-· Jtl.ltt'.\' l\!loiJil lfl a Jdi•:-ii•l··~;~.alt•lv··t.tJfl. _-\llllll,-.t l~r; p••PJ t'·•', tl:t! _t~:\l' lll~-\\:t. 11 11 l!t !t..'- ·if· :•-,. (r,•-..ltJn~lll 1·!~,:-;~ t'ailt·~d tq :..!.~tJ·i '•• :1.o.~1.\ . .,· ·••·. ~··iJ,, ~: ... \\·, ...... \~~~~-·. c )r,t• J,u;-;--tld\· •··.'\planatioll \t··~:t', .\.·•. • .1 1 ·I }'11 1 1< ,.t_,,ll ~tli :·111 tfl: ... -.l-'t'l!ll',( ',, Ji,- itt tht• lark •· lll•!J•',,--..,·c·· ~ :•··.! p~·,!t·~ .... ,,,..:, JJIOJ\t..' 11f !allt~l.ant\· \\:~:1 !u,th l\~Lildi- .lt.•t: . I \ 1>. t -: I\'' -tud,·n: dall'' .. \llii<>;JI.dt Bluru·nthal jll'l'· •)!-:···-·: .. t~ I · ,.,. YaJ, .. :'11:itil. :---.11/;~t:!,\ \\t'!:t a!'Ptl!td di_..;;trilnning· l:t·JlL.!\'..:'-\1, \\ .:i.:t:' .... \-.t\-).S:t!. u--. .·antpaii.!ll rn.t~t·!!al. a :-:.urjll\i:-o- l~··t·t! .. t' -! :-· : . . ' · '.n .t~l !1a\ t iP}.! rn::nl'l-'1 ~~;· :-;~·u.:••Jtt.;, klil'\\' lit- , t I 1 : t \ t· ~ ; • : .: • • • , : ·' •• : ·: 11 'u..;~t nd • 11 ' ''' I ) • ':\!I I l !. :..;_ ~ 1.[ t i r-• I 1l .., . llftlj itt I ~ j 1•··; ..., 1 1 ,• I' I i ', '', r 1.,: 1 ; \ .. t 1. ·: ;·,·! .· '-'.ll. ·rr d- !i.:\:iJ: .. r.. Jl .. <y, !.!J·.~·f: t:lt-' ''jl!IIJ}~'Jflit:, t•J (Jlt•t.•! tht• a~:.:;.l:tt~-· .... :l:Jt: ;\ir;d .~~1! :ht• IL·al !\lt•·~ ,,( :Itt• t'lllllJ!:ll)!.ll Ill titl' -Jll'•.'•h 1n:tl,i11~ \\'t•d1wsday t'\'l'll· Saturday Classes Canceled I Ill' 1/ t• t : l.l ' I l.t:..:·· ,.: ... ,,~. ,'.I\,, {'l .t' ,.,_ l'ht• F:r,·ulty t'••llll•·il. a~ a .. ,,.,.:.! ::!.! ,h;, ~~'\··k. l':t'~t·d a I'P~•>iuti••ltl :. '\IIIII.! 'itt• ,·:trtt·t•llatiull of }ll:::o. · !a..,:-'-t'=\ •J!I ~;tl_l~'J'c\;t~ /llOI\Il;l~g- :\u-,. •\!l!wJ 1-1. l :h·· lt.'.l:'•lll f·q· thP , :tic·,-·~!:ttilll: j ... :h:-tt ~he· faculty c·.., 1~-·cf t,J ',::\t> ~Ill,\ [JU:--\t-•..., ••I' t'~l1':-i j !.!\·''.:: '·• :!11· l'ni••ll-1-lalllilt\rr I ''\'tf .... :ur~t ... ct' t'!Htt\ll. ~<. Y. -'JI.Ii•:t-•flt t:nt• ', ;tl!!\'t.' ftlJ tht•· ~ ~~:t•· _\!' \\:>\il tlt.f :1::~11 c·l:t...,...;•·-.1 · · '··ld :.1 ....... c·ht•.lu\t·•!. ! ·~avy Recruiting :~lanned I II> \\',.,j,,,.,,J;t\ ,tt:•: r· Ill -.I,\ I . \' \lrt 1 • ·t 11'1' :,,,.! I ~11., ·' \a I.) 1 : . !\: I! !lor !li~l~ i\:t :o·.ttll '·'.II lit' c .illl}llt-\' ;tl t\•t• ~~Lidt•fc~ Lolllq.!t'l !Ltk !lllil.'\' ,., •>!!} :J:IJII .-\.:\1. I ::r:il 1 :<JII 1' . .\1. I» d::'<'ll:', tin up- i ,)IIJ'~l[JJitit·~ o:l\(t tddt' tH t'tllh•!.!_t:'' I . . - ' l' • I !.! J'clt 'l;t lt·• .. ;_~;.;. ••llll't't ~ 1 Jl ttlt' , ....... ; '\:n~. TLc· it;fontJatltlll t't·:un of 1 .:c-·tlt't'll.llil:O: _illtt: .. J· gr:-tdt• Hal ph I ,\. lii,-1,.,. ar11l ,J,JtJt l' . .\!!'!;lirl<'t·~·j .\til il:t\t· lnf,,,nlat:,,!, a'a ·~,1~1{-' 1 •1ft tht• \ ,ll·,ou . ..; tct'fi<·t·r pr~·~raJll:'' :,., l1o~tli Jllt'll ar1d \\lllllt..'ll. ;..;.tud- 1 1 t~ :r1t1 r~-·~rr d 11! !ultillrrt~~ 'lit·!.· 'lllld~ti'V td,!ig·:, .. 11111 a~ :t rt;tval 111'· '1··,·r ;t·n· 111\ .lt•d to di-t·u:--:-:. \\ ith 1 'Ill' illi'•>l'llla:ioll t•·<llll tl11· lll<tiiYI ·ff:n-·t· pro}..!t':llll\' ;~\ai!a!,lt i11 tltt· 1 l'.:'. \a\y. ' I I I I I Your hometown ! heart throb ... I wants to hear from you rigl1t now. So what are you 1 warting for? Be fond and ' phone today. Remember, ' a phone call is the next best th1ng to being there. , 4. New York Telephone L -_ Yo~ g::~~~~ ~=n-yuu telepho••e _) Exciting New Designs RINGS True artistry is expressed in the briliiant fashion styling of every Keepsake diamond en· gagement ring. Each setting is a masterpiece of design, refle~ting the full brilliance and beauty of the center diamond ..• a perfect gem of flaw· less clarity, fine color and meticulous modern cut. The name, Keepsake, in the ring and on the tag is your assurance of fine quality and lasting satisfaction. Your very personal Keepsake is awaiting your selection at your Keepsake Jeweler's store. Find him in the yellow pages under: 11 Jewelers.\ Prices from $100 to $2500. Rings enlarged to show beauty of detail.®Trade· mark registered. ------------------, HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING Please send new 20-page booklet, \How To Plan Your Engagement end Wedding\ and new 12-po:;c full color folder, both for only 25r.\. Al~a. ,crd specie! offer of beautiful 44-poge Bride's Bock. Name'---------------------------- Addres\-------- ----- DACY PAPER co IN SCHENECTADY YOUR Suttessor 1o J NOGEE & SONS In Autho!!'ized KEEPSAKE Jewe~er· as htobl»hed I 888 TIME CENTER JEWELERS WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS PAPER-PAPER BAGS STATIONERY- SCHOOL SUPPLIES 428 STATE ST . FR 4-0183 Phone FR 4-4429 28-34 N. Broadway If 'I'~'' ,,,_.,, illtt,l•fbSft)tl ;,, lllliltlillfl IJtbtlr t(Jtrrt~fjJ• ill II t•tllll/lllllt/ tlltlf: Is a grow1ng. progressive one which offers you exceptinna: opportuni~ics for development and advancer''C:lt. clt:perldir~;:; C\l your· ov;n qua;ifications. ambitions and willingness to .. worh. har.~j :c gt't clt1>?:::Jd. Prov1de~ a 2·year Or 1 -the-Job Trainmg Prograrn !dll .. J,-,(J i'\l y•_·t:r talents ancl de:-,,rcs. v': th ocrindic salary increasr•s n·-.r! c:hallengillC, Jnd rpsry:-nsiblr iob assignments. Offers compPtitive salaries with an outstanding bPnL'?f1t prograr''. incluc!ing f1nancial aid for advanced studir'c:... Is one of the IJrges~ electric. gas ancJ stear1 utit1ty ,-·~\''panipc l'l the world . pioner_·ring many clevr::'lopr-nents in t11'.: rY·WCr fr,,:rj and S~'rving Ne'.\' Y.':rh. Crty ancl acijlin·r1g Wr,st·rlP\!\r C .,·:f ... a': in the stirrulating environment c,f exciting Ne\\' y, r.<:. See your Placement Officer: get cur! iterature. del a 1is ur: ,.L,r ;· tJ openmgs: and sign up fur an i11terv1c-W vvittl cur repres~n:a~i_,,, ~J!}~ POWER ~FOR PROGRESS CAMPIJS INTERVIEWS ••• NOVEM~~R_I:~] The se\ect·on, tra1n ng_ ~)h):-nottut Jnd .Jil c.t'ler pG:•l_,e·. of Pl(; Con·tp;J·~y ,t 4 fl', 1·~:~~ t·· .. ~;}'L}Y\ tr· qua!Jf1ca110llS of the r:J.o~-du.J! g.v ~ g e~v,t lOnS~lk· 1 .Jttt/ 1 to .J,! 1-i'U)Out re&d\d to 'd 1 _t' ·J:rJ', ···~_-_: \ '·

LIBRARY THEFTS Page2 Concordy Sports FACULTY COLUMN Page 3 ,, ; ·~ Union Succumbs To Williams, 48-27; Garnet Idle lJntil Harr1ilton Next Week By Howard A. Goldberg Union College's home foot- ball schedule ended last Sat- urday in one of the wildest football games seen at this school in some time. With footballs continually flying I and the scoreboard never quiet for any great length of time, Williams College de- feated the Dutchmen 48-27. The score only reveals the abundance of points scored, but there was much more to this game than the score. Hitchcock Excels :\lost important to Union Col- lt·g,e fans was the tremendous passing exhibition put on by Tom H itchcork. Hitchcock, passing ala Johnny Unitas, assaulted the Union record books with 43 at- tempts, 22 completions (at least ~ix others were dropped) for 288 yards. Ht• ran his total passing yardage to 905 yards in 6 games. He will haYe one more shot at breaking 1,000 yards against Hamilton a week from t<mwrrow. The Gamet took the field a week ago, with nobody expecting to get much joy out of this Prom Weekend Game. A week before, the Dutchmen had been upset by Hobart and an injury to Brendan Hutchinson was supposed to have weakened the defense which need- ed to be stronger than usual to stop an umlefeated Williams team. The starting eleven had been shaken up to try to help the Gar- net get up for this toughest game of the season. \Get up\ are harllly the words for how the Dutchmen reacted to Coach Flood's extensive preparation for the Williams team. Garnet Scores Early The first two times the Garnet had the ball they scored. Once on a 26 yard run by Jim Ramich and then on a 20 yard pass to Marc Hurlbut. With 4:53 left to go in the first quarter the Union fans were in a state of shock. Not even the football prophets had called this turn about. Williams did not panic and crumble at the seams as most teams would have under such an onslaught by an underdog. They ran out the remaining time in the first quarter by scoring their first touchdown on a three yard run, In the second quarter John Pryor intercepted a Hitchcock pass and set up Williams' second score on a ten yard run by Jim Leitz. Speaking of Leitz he probably had more to do with C\nion losing than any other player as he car- ried the ball 27 times for 160 yat·ds. Both teams went into the locker rooms at halftime with Un- ion's margin of victory the two points after touchdown by Art Marshall. Williams Awakens . . ~~~~ I\'larc Hurlbut being tackled in the end zone after receidng Tom Hitchcock's touchdown pass, Ratur- day against Williams. hy John Soper and Art Marsh·1ll 1 B t E d s t•espectively. • ' i 00 ers n eason The hall game was far from· decided us the scoreboard clock w. • h L ~ T • • read 11:17 and the score 28-21. -~t o~s 0 r-~n-~t·\' Here Williams turned to its run- \' d• · ~ ,.. 'J ning and passing combination of Leitz, Jones and Richardson to put the game away. The Ephmen scored twice on receptions by Ri~hardson after Leitz had run the ball into position, This put the scot·e at 40-21 and the ball game was in the victory column for Williams although both teams scored again in the closing min- ut~s. Other Pel'fmmers Outstanding for Union besides Hitcheock, was Art Marshall who caught fh·e passes for 60 yards, anti kicked tht·ee out of three Pxtra points to bring his total to 12 for 14. John .Soper caught six passes for 99 yards :and Marc Hurlbut three for 50 yards. Soph- omorP Steve Roehm, playing, fm· all intents and purposes for the first time, did a fine job in spelling Art Marshall and Rich Clemens. Roehm showed his ver- satility by playing halfback, wing back and safety all in one after- noon. Picking defensive stars is dif- ficult when 48 points are allowed, but Larry McDonald made quite a number of tackles, most of which were at the expense of the hard running Jim Leitz. U1lion will have a chance to even its record at 3-3-1 against Hamilton a week from tomorrow at Hamilton. By Eric Singer The Garnet Varsity soccel' sq~rad closed out the 1964 cum· patgn last Friday, meeting de- feat at the hands of a powerful Trinity team by a scot·e of 6-2. The Dutchmen thus ended the year with a record of two vic- tories against seven losses. I~eflecting on the season, Coach Beaudry commented that it had been a successful campaign, con- sidering the limited personnel with which the team found itself. He pointed out that while there were many outstanding players, every contest constituted a team effort. In each game, at least twenty men saw artion. Among the Seniors who have \booted the it· last ball\ for the Garnet, Gary Brown, a Center Halfback, and Frank Walters, a reserve Wing, were cited for their fine work all season. Othet• mem- bet·s of the squad receiving high p•raisee from their coach were juniors D err y Cay e, D a v e Schmidt, Hank Revercomb and John Fuller, and Sophomores Greg Olson, Tobey Olsen, Bob ~-------------- Maynard, and Dave Kaufman. Fuller and Kaufman led all Gar- net scorers with three goals apiece. Union managed a total of only fifteen goals against thir- ty-seven by the opposition in nine games, thus demonstrating a lack of a powerful, or even substantial offensive attack. Next Year Looking ahead to the coming year, Coach Beaudry admitteq he was counting on a good deal of help from the upcoming fresh- men. The coach said he believed next year's squad could expect h~lp from between eight to ten freshmen. He also prophesied that next year's team \could promise to be the best ever for Union, depending upon the gains in strength made by the opposi- tion.\ It would indeed seem that with the current returning squad members forming a strong core, and the ft·eshmen t•ounding out the team, Union can look forward to a powerful soccer squad next year, and a suuccessful 1965 cam- paign. Frosh Gridders Triumph!) 53-6 By Gary Van G1·aafeiland Time Out: The Game That Wasn't, By Riclty Resch The following article was written in light ·of the recent upset of Susquehanna by Alfred and the void ,created in Union's football schedule by dropping Susquehanna. •J VOL. 9• ,, T( Earlier today the Union College grid team boarded its chartered bus bound for Selingsgrove, Pennsylvania. The scene was notably different from the one that took place Iast year the day before the game against Susquehanna. At that time the .skies were overcast ·i> .(l Dr. ~ · and not a soul was around as the Dutchmen were shipped out for the slaughter. This morning, however, a crowd of students and seveml local sportswriters witnessed the depat\ture of an extremely confident footbalt team. The team's assurance is shared by the col- ·~ lege community. There is little doubt that St!squehanna will fall at the hands of the Garnet. l'psets Last Week ·• These senttmenls are the result of last week's surprising scores, the most important of which was the upset of Susquehanna by Alfred University, 18-16. In its second game this year the Garnet played Alfr~d tu a 7-7 tie and, since the team has steadHy improved, should lo be ahle to do even better again::;t Susquehanna than did Alfred. The events of last weekend have also done a great deal for L'nion mo1 all'. The Dutchmen played excellently against a heavily favored and undefeated Williams College eleven. The 27 points that the Garnet scored against the Ephmen were eleven more than the & total scoring against Williams in its first five games. Another upset among colleges in Union's league has shown that the Gamet should have Httle trouble with Susquehanna. St. Law- rence defeated Rochester, 14-7. The Dutchmen overran the Larries, II .16-9, in the season opener a,nd, since Rochester beat Alfred, 25-18, and St. Lawrence lost to Susquehanna, 20-7, Union should be con- sidered a six point favorite over the Pennsylvania squad. Game Over WRUC Union's radio station, WRUC, will .carry Saturday's tilt start- ing at 1:30 p.m. We're sure that no one \V:ill miss one minute of this year's Union-Susquehanna football game. It is the opinion of -# Concordy's sports staff that the Union College team that will appear in Selingsgrove, Pennsylvania tomorrow will, without doubt, startle its opponents. Football Statistics Record 2-3-1. Union 16, St. Lawrence 9; Union 7, Alfred 7; Roches,er 20, Union 14; Union 27, RPI 3; Hobart 19, L'nion 13; \' Williams 48, Union 27. RUSHING: Player Y ds. Gd. Jim Ramich, FB ............................ 341 Brendan Hutchinson, HB ............ 141 Rich Clemens, HB ........................ 99 Bob Grady, HB .............................. 43 W ailace Baker, FB ...................... 23 Tom Hitchcock, QB ...................... 118 Gary Raden, FB ............................ 9 Eddie Kessler, HB ........................ 8 Steve Roehm, WB ........................ 1 Art Marshall, WB ........................ 0 Peter Jacobson, QB ...................... 0 Union totals ........................ . 783 Opp. totals ....................... . PASSING: Tom Hitchcick, QB ................ . Peter Jacobson, QB ..... . 1181 Att. la7 ·s Union totals ...................... 145 Opp. totals .. ... . ........... ....... 100 RECEIVING: Player Caug·ht Art Marshall, WB .......................... 24 Ma1·c Hurlbut, E . ... .............. ......... 21 John Soper, E. .............. .. . ............ 10 Brendan Hutchinson, HB .............. 4 J.oe Sawyer, E ........... ....... ............. 2 Steve Roehm, WB . . . .. . . . . .. . .. ....... .. !3 Chris Cassels, E . . . . . .. . . .. . 2 Rich Clemens, HB . . . ....... . . . . . ... ...... 1 Tom Spencer ........ ... . . .. . . .... ... 1 Jim Ramich, FB ....................... ..... 2 Union tot{lls ....................... 70 Opp. totals ........ ..... ..... ..... . . 46 PUNTING: Player Punts Marc Hurlbut, E . .. ........ ........ 27 Union totals ...... .... ..... .. . . . . . 27 Opp. totals .......... . . . . ...... .. . . !j6 Ave. 4.3 3.7 3.1 2.9 5.8 0.4 1.8 2.7 1.0 0.0 -14.0 2.9 :3.6 Comp. ()9 Yds. 905 9 1 70 46 91!3 582 Yards 261 239 153 1!ll 38 35 34 27 8 -la 913 592 Yards 1133 1133 1351 TDs 1 6 1 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 9 8 TDs 6 0 6 7 • • 'l'Ds ·• 0 3 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 6 7 ) Ave. 42.0 42.0 J 37.5 TY'f'fttfffftttt~:f¥ti¥f't'YffTT'WttYffff'f'YTfTTYYtt THE ORIGINAL ALPINE LODEN COAT Made in Western Germany Horn toggles and removable hood in Ioden green & wheat ) 35.95 ) i J This isn't the city baby, it gets cold in the winter ' .) I DAVE'S §quirr ~lfnp ) t ~ 326 STATE STREET Ph. 377u3061 t ~ Tues. & Thurs. 'til 9 t 6 4 4 4 4 4 4 A 4 6 4 4_ 4 .t. 4 4 • 4 A A 4 • t 6 • A + 4 6 * • f 6 6 6 6 t 6 6 A 6 A 4 4 6 .4 ' Princeton Ham W. l 111 17, at 11 The title !'nnial Pro ,&Human Va · izations.\ established Professor econom,ics • until his < Pril A gt·adu of 1919, [ 'M.A. and] 1928. He staff of P tor of ec< \scope was to teachin1 nJi.nistrath l5ibilities a •. from 1946, ous gove and agen Hoover's for Emplo Swas one < helped pla Act of 19! He is n \field of in while at P industrial ments in ~ -.policies. · Princeton Section u1 almost 30 his post 1: 'of other l F' The A Arts and ,.. a fellow ir a Litt.D. L.H.D. fr an honora1 :.<Union in Fil1 3 To !tPiaj B: This we1 \)cois Truff Player, wi E.E. 22 :at Filmed ,. simultane, a satire, ; cerns a c. ist, quiet, tcellently Aznavour. a promish pianist. l violence a 'of circum: sponsible: either dire prisingly, ~·riotously termined 1 making hi Cer ,, Shoot 1 censured critics on not conta and that ~ dictable. wrote in faut's fUn and that's 1•it. The f trag·edy a I think a: perience tl are filled 1 · not as WI pect in fi agree wit' country \1 < ganized; t critical a) mar scho1 unity of 11 tra,nsition herent, c heroes th< villains tl Truffau of the st1 ganized\ Thus the 11 Shoot the and origi (Oo1 J<

., . • , i -~ Founded at .Union College 1877 Isn't, VOL. 94 - No. 8 SCHENECTADY, N, Y,, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1964 PRICE 15 CENTS ----------------------------------------- .esch ' )J !ent UllSCt 's football ,, ~Brown To Discuss .. Maintaining Values chartered LS notably ilefore the •i> · .tt ~ overcast To Discuss Organization. Values By A. Laurence Colb Two New Dormitories Planned In $3,000,000 Building Project ·Cain Explains Innovations ··----------- !d out for :Ients and extremely y the col- ·~ will fall ·t ng scores, by Alfred tet played ed, should _. .If red. deal for a heavily oints that than the • ~own that St. Law- e Larries, II ed, 25-18, d be con- ~ilt start- ninute of •pinion of ,. ill appear Jt, startle • Alfred 7; ..'nion 13; -» 'fDs 1 6 1 0 0 0 2 0 0 () 0 0 9 8 TDs 6 () 6 7 • • TDs • 0 3 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 6 7 J ) Ave. 42.0 42.0 ) 37.5 ' •• y. ) ., ) i J ' J I . Dr. J. Douglas Brown, present Dean of the Faculty at· Princeton University and economist, will deliver the Wil- liam W. Bennett Memorial Lecture on Tuesday, November 11 17, at 11:30 A.M. in Memorial Chapel. The philosophy b:>hind tlw new i architectural scheme to be used i in the proposed Arhilles Field 1 dormitories was explained at a 1 meeting uf student leaders Wed- nesday. Mr. Walkl'r Cain, Sen- ior Architect of tlw firm of Stein- man, Cain, and White, c<~mpus architects, described the reason- ing that led to .the ultimate adop- tion <Jf the suite system and other innovations that ha\'e been in- corporated into the plalls. The title of his lecture is \Per-<t•>------- Pnnial Problems of Implementing \ Human Values in Human Organ- Dr ~,, izations.\ The lecture series was • Glueck established by friends of the late. Professor Bennett, who taught D 1. s c u s· s e s economics at t:\ nion from 1927 ~until his death in May of 196a. Princeton Graduate N b h A gmduate of Princeton, Class . a at eans of 1919, Dr. Brown received h-is Feeling of Today 'M.A. and Ph.D. there in 1921 and 1928. He joined the teaching staff of Princeton as an instruc- tor of economics in 1921. His \scope was not, however, limited to teaching, combining these ad- ministrative duties with re;:;pon- sibilities as Dean of the Faculty . fl'om 1946, and service to numer- • ous governmental departments and agencies. A member of Hoover's Emergency Committee for Employment in 1930-1931, he s was one of the economists who helped plan the Social Security Act of 19a5. He is nationally known in the • field of industrial relations; and, while at Princeton, has influenced industrial and public develop- ments in personnel and manpower . policies. He was director of the \'Pl'inceton International Relations Section until 1955, when, after almost 30 years, he relinquished his post because of the pressure t of other duties. Fellow of AAAS The American Academy of Arts and Sciences elected Brown ~a fellow in 1960. He already held a Litt.D. from Rutgers 1947, an L.H.D. from Kenyon 1954, and an honorary Doctor of Laws from ,., Union in 1955. Film Series 3 To Feature \'~Piano Player' By Andy Levitas This week's film offering, Fran- \'cois Truffaut's Shoot the. Piano Player, will be shown tomght in E.E. 22 at 7 P.M. and 9 P.M: . Filmed in 1960, the moyie IS <\ simultaneously a gangster picture, a satire, and a tragedy. It ~on­ cerns a cheap, honky-donk pian- ist quiet, timid, and girl-shy, ex- . cellently portrayed by Charles t Aznavour. He is escaping from a promising career as a concert pianist. Although frightened of violence and bloodshed, by force 'of circumstances he becomes re- sponsible for a number of deaths, either direcily or indirectly. Sur- prisingly, this is all made to seem ~,riotously funny; Truffaut is de- termined to have fun writing and making his movie. Censured by Critics Shoot the Piano Player was ''censured by several Am~ric~ cdtics on the grounds that It drd not contain a sufficient \moral\ and that it is erratic and unpre- ~ dictable. However, Pauline Kael wrote in Film Culture: \Truf- faut's film bursts out all over- and that's what's wonderful about 1 .it. The film is comedy, pathos, trag·edy all scrambled up--much I think as most of us really. ex- perience them (surely all our hves are filled with comic horrors) but 1 · not as we have been led to ~x­ pect in .films . . .::; and \I dis- agree Wlth the. Cl'ltlCS around. th: country who fmd the f~lm dJsoi- ' ganized; they seem to clu~g to the critical apparatus of then· gram- mar school teachers. The¥ want unity of theme, easy-to-follow transitions in mood, a good co- · 11 hei·ent old-fashioned plot, and · heroes' they can identify with and villains they can reject.'' Out of Life . Truffaut has woven his film out of the stuff of life. It is \?is~r­ ganized•' in the same way hfe 1s. Thus the New Yorker could call 111 Shoot the Piano Player \brilliant and original\ and the New York (Oontinued on Page 2) br. Nel:;on Glueck, one of the· Cain explained that tlw uew world'ti foremost archaeologists dormitories were designed to \in- and president of Hebre\v Union. corporate a feeling of 'today' into College, addressed the student the campus plans, an<l yet to re- uody at Convocation, Tuesday. tain a basic design that is friendly Dr. Glueck :;poke about his recent to the rest of the campus.\ Cain work in the di:;covery of the an- added that the Hamee plan that cient deities of u little known· has guided campus architectural. nation of people called the Naba- planning fot· oYer a hundred theans. vears was not abandoned. The Semi-Nomadic Tribe g·eneral appearance of the build- The Nabatheans developed from a little, semi-nomadic tribe into a great seafaring nation in the Jordan River Valley of Ancient Syria, about 300 B.C. At one time these little-understood people established trading posts all along the coast of Asia Minor and transported spices all the way to Europe. According to Dt·. Glueck, the quality of theil· egg-shell thin, beautifully designed pottery, one of their chief exports, has never been matched. The Nabathean culture has be- come the basis fm· Dr. Glueck's yet upnpublished book, Deities and Dolphins. ln it he describes some of the •vork he has done concern- ing the ancient biblical lands of Jordan, with references to the modern culture of the present day Arab tribes. Discovered Sites Dr·. Glueck has <liscovered more than fifteen hundred sites since he began his work in the dese1 t. He has revolutionized our beliefs conceming population centers aml ancient cultures of biblical times. Perhaps his most famous discov- ery was the ancient mines of King Solomon, a find which has become the basis for a great deal (Continued on Page 2) ings will continue to conform to the color pattem and system of columnades that predominates on Union College's campus. How- ever, the interior planning, the living, dining, and recreational quarters, will be marked by in- novation. The new living and sleeping facilities will be a sharp depar- ture from Richmond and West Colleges. Cain explained that the latter two buildings \Yere con- struc>ted right after the Second World War and their primary ob- ject was to provide housing as quickly and cheaply as possible for the greatest number of stud- ents. This is reflected in the per- sistent long corridors and stero- typed room arrangements. Respect Individuality The suite system that will be instituted in the new dormitories t;eflecls an increased respect for the students' need for individual- ity and for a place to study. The rooms were designed to allow for maximum privacy in studying. and to eliminate the problem of one roommate wanting to stay up late, thus preventing another from sleeping. The concept of a sep- arate study and living room con- necte<l to a sleeping section makes studying in the students' own (Continued on Page 5) Thursday ''Andorra!' Curtain Rises On Frisch~s By Charles Pankenier In keeiJing with their recent policy of introducing the Union College community to contem- porary and timely drama while it has an immediate theatrical relevance, the Mountebanks will open their fall season with the production of AN- DORRA by Max Frisch. The drama, which will run from No· vember 19 through 23 in the !'<oi.t Memorial Theatre, estab- lished Frisch as pre-eminent (along with Friedrich Durren- matt) among German l.a~gua~e playwrights now wr1tmg. m Europe. Although Amencan audiences have, for the J;nOSt part, remained unexposed to his work, Frisch's popularity in Europe is almost unsur- passed. Bo1·n in 1911, Max Frisch is part and parcel of the cultural phenomena of the twentieth cc>ntuty, although he has bt!i!n able to observe them from the isolation of his native Switzer- land. Trained as an architect, the political events of the thir- ties crystallized the play- wright's obsessive desire to write and drove him to au in- evitable career as a man of let- ters. Among his major works are two novels, I'M NOT STILLER (1954) and HOMO FABER (1957), but it is with- in the world of the theatre that Frisch's artistic and philoso- phical impact has been great- est. Understandiug turns to hate in AN])ORRA, opening Thursday. In his approach to the stage, this writer differs from his fellow theatrical giants, Dur- reurnatt and Berthold Brecht. For Frisch, tl!e field of action of the drama is as wide as tbe human soul, and he places his reliance on the dynamic nature of the tension generated in the audience by the interplay of its perceptive and imaginative faculties. The stage, as the autlt1>r of ANDORRA sees it, (Continued on Page 3) . ) I' . ·.:: Artist's illustration of new dormitories as they will appear from corner of Seward Place and Union Street. Middle States Group Studies LA Progrants Representatives from twelve member-institutions of the Middle States Association of High Schools and Colleges studied Union's Liberal Arts programs early this year. Their purpose was to gain new insights on how to attack the problems facing their own schools. Union is one of two \case<t•>--------------- studies\ conducted during the F h week. The other is Bucknell. reS ffi en While selection does not imply Association endorsement, it was E I t F • felt that Union's long history e C - l V e would help define the problems a liberal arts college faces and de- T c •1 fine possible so~utions to them. 0 ounct Jne matter which came under the group's careful scrutiny was how a balance was attained be- •ween the liberal arts and the professional subjects, i.e. engi- neering and the sciences. Study of Union's activities in the field of curriculum evaluation is ex- pected to help these schools solve their problems as they expand their programs. Began Last Sunday The educators' visit began of- ficially Sunday evening when President Carter Davidson spoke on Union's history, program and philosophy, after dinner. The next day Professor Joseph Fin- klestein spoke of the role the fac- ulty plays at Union, followed by J. discussion led by Dean Lock- wood. During the rest of the day, there was a tour of the cam- pus. meeting with other members, mcluding Prof. Carl Niemeyer and Dr. Edwin Tolan, and discus- sion among themselves. On Tues- day, Prof. Alan Nelson spoke on the curriculum, followed by an- other discussion led by Dean Lock- wood. The afternoon was spent studying the chemistry program and the professional pt·ograms. Professors George Reed and Gar- diner Ketchum spoke, In the even- ing Jonathan Pearson III s~oke. on the entel'ing freshmen-thetr high school standings, college boards and general profile. Dean 0. Ed- ward Pollock addresed the group on Wednesday morning <>n the general subjects concerning stu- dent life. The final activity sched- uled was an evaluation discus- sion held in the afternoon. No Formal Repm·t Five freshmen were elected to represent the class of 1968 in the Student Council in elections held last night, In marked contrast to results in recent years the gap between the elected candidate and the also-ran with the most votes was a large one-forty votes. Elected to the Student Couuncil were James MacDonald, Peter Dawson, Dick Corrigan, Stephen Walker, and Robert Winner. Mac- Donald polled the greatest total vote. He accumulated 207 votes. Following MacDonald were Daw- son with 188. Walker with 174, Winner with 160, and Corrigan with 157. No Experience MacDonald is a native of South Glastonb]Jry, Conn., and a gradu- ate of Williston Academy. Ee had no previous student govern- ment experience in high school but participated in wrestling and lacrosse. Dawson is from Elmira, New York. His background includes experience in high school student government, He was an officer of his class and his high school student council. Dawson als-o played baseball and football and worked on his high school news- paper. Walker went to Cardinal Hayes High School in the Bronx, N. Y. A pre-med student at Union, he has had experience in student government while in high school, where he was class treasurer. From North Carolina Winner is a native of Ashe- ville, North Carolina. A Liberal Arts student, he was a star de- Suite System In Both Dorms By Barry Newman By the Fall of 1966 two new residence halls will be added to the college. Costing a total of ~3 million, they are being design- ed to house 510 students under the suite system, The new construction will ex- pand Union's enrollment capa- bilities by 200 men, and will elim- inate the need for same under- graduates to live off campus. It rs the largest single construction undertaking in the college's his- tery. Work of Committees Announcement of the new plan was made at a news conference, Wednesday. Dean 0. E<lward follock stated that the design for the new buildings emerged from extensive work by several campus committees which collaborated with Fratemity presidents and members of the student council to determine which form of resi- dential organization was \ideal\ from the student's standpoint. l'he projects attempts to create the \best in living conditions, not just shelter\ for the student body, according to the Dean. The ~enior Architect of the Col!ege, Mr. Walker Cain of i:lteinmann, Cain and White, pre- sented the details of the building program. The two dormitories will be located in Achilles Field, between Seward Place and South College. They will form twin quadrangles to accommodate four fraternities and independents as well. Each building according to the plan is composed of three oasic units. Two are self con- tained fraternity houses which \nclude kitchens, lounges and rec- reation areas. These utilize ap- proximately half the space. The other half of each unit will be occupied by independents who, in place of kitchen facilities, will nave a large lounge. Independ- ents will continue to eat in Hale .tlouse and West College. The lounge and kitchen facili- ties eompose a central, one-story connection for three story wings m which the rooms will be locat- ed. In the center of the quad- rangles will be a landscaped courtyard opening into the inde- pendent's lounge. Suite System In the individual room facili- ties, the plans diverge sharply from any precedents in under- graduate housing at Union. They eliminate the familiar long corri- dors with two man rooms on eith- er side. Instead, a suite system is going to be instituted. The (Continued on Page 5) Dr. To On Lambert Lecture Synapses Professor Francis Lincoln Lam- bert will address the N europhysi- ology Seminar this Thurs~ay C!n \Physiology of some Cholmgenc Synapses.\ The seminar will be held at 11:30 A.M. in the Physics Seminar Room. The nervous system, according to the text of Lambert's talk, is an information handling device. It is composed of nerve cells, which have long processes and fibers growing out of them. These extenuations transmit the nerve impulses across junctions call(3d synapses. The transmission of the impulses along the fibers them- selves is an electrical process. Across the synapse, it is a chemi- Since this group did not con- stitute an official body of the Middle States Association, no formal report will be made. The purpose was to aid the individual schools involved. Certain things did appear to interest the mem- bers more than others, however. Dean Lockwood stated that they seemed intrigued by the import- ance of the faculty in the role they play. They were intrigued by the fact that there is no huge gulf separating them from the administration, that ideas of fac- ulty members intei•play with those of the adminisb·ation, and that there is mutual respect be- . h 1 cal one. Corrigan went to hrg schoo To Doctor Lambert, the study bater in high school. (Continued on Page 5) in Hamberg, New York, but of the mechanization of this makes his home in Kenosha, Wis- transmission from one cell to an- cousin. He is a pre-medical stud- other is an, important one. ent. Corrigan's leadership exper- T~e sem!nar p~·ogram was or- ience includes presidency of his gamze~ th1s semmar by Profes- class his high school student sor~ Rtchard Henry ~nd Kenneth '. . . Schtck. Its purpose 1s to arouse cou~Cll, and memb~rsh1p m the interest in neurophysiology here Natlo?al Honor Soc1et~. He also at Union. Although only physics, captamed three varsity teams biology and chemistry students while in high school. have attended the series for the The procedure· for electing the most part, the series is open to (Contmued on Page 5) all.

2 ·· .... , Friday, November 13, 1964 .. Political Scene: . Haverford Plan Seen As Relaxing Exam -Tension ~-~-------------------------------------------------------- ·-· .. ·--·------- No Mandate By Paul Sherwin 1 By Alou Jeffrey Involved and seemingly buried in the tension and confusion of I Union's mid-semester exam per- · i()d, I was both excited and dis- traught upon reading about Hav-1 erford College's attempt to allevi- ate these problems, The Haver-~ The:> r!:'sults of th!:' recent Pre;;idential election indeed hold g:·eat ~ord Plan begins ~wo weeks he-. implications for both major political p:;trt~es, not only_ the Repub!Jcan If ore the ~xam, pet·wd, wh~n stu- I a:; recent news stnl'iPs would seem to mdHate. Certamly the Repub- I dents dectd~ \\hen they >VI!l take 1 lican party mu~t rE'ot·p;anize. It is. app~uent from the el~~~ion res~l~s 1 e~ch of t~e1:·. e~a.ms,. and s1gp U'~ I that the rxtl'emists connected w1th Senator Goldwatet s campargn I Vltth the l.egt::;tlal_fol ~hese ttme:s. have been more than rebuked in eYery section of the nation but the I The testmg pel'lod .Jtself lasts South where they were welcomed with op_en arms. I~ the Republican for 10 ~.ays, a?d exams are sche.d- (H.Il'l:Y i~ nnt to bN·o 11 ! e the party of _u dpng South, 1t must t\hed the: ule? t\\lC~ da1l.y. ~he student .le- shackles of sp•rregatwn and states nghts. 1 pol ts to ,t ~am hall at th~ time \' 1 he has specified and receives a : Status Quo 1 copy of his exam in a sealed I • · .· . 11 ·h' h I booklet, prepared by professors The Demucrat1c party moreover ts faced \\ tth a PI o l em ' 1 I<' d d' t 'b t d b t d t h ~ ,r •;, J· . _ 1 L pab[e of foregoing the.ir seJ,fish- ' ' - nes~ and C\an learn to resist the t\mptations of cheating, a more : .nature g1·oup of adults would be 1 · turned out by Union. Suffering from emotional stress · and unable to devote adeq1:1a,te time to thei·r studies, many stu- dent!; who a·re hatnpered by tight · exam schedules would be able to ~ive a truer showing -of their ca- . p~.bili.ies with the benefits of the u Haverford Plan. l''alse Assumt>tion To a,;sume that students will · fall into ft·audulent ways if given •I the liberty to take examinations without the usual sanctions made by professors and the administra-· Friday, .I ·---- Scho nection v I've • suggestir ing-. But vocation I ha While ne on in the that he h ! view Hfe i,; perhaps greater than f~cing the G.O.P. It seems that the elet· 1 an IS r\~ e Jt ~ s ~ en llnl I tlon wm; not in the words of General Eisenhower, \a mandate for I ~Jrs elomnu teh'e.t u end s 2 ~nro ec ' · l h 1 t· d, t . t d th t I m c:: asses a excee o mem- ehange.\ More than anythmg e se, t e e ec wn e mons I a e a I b . , l' 't d . th t th t the nation did not wish to move back\l'ard. Fut· example, a state t:l~~ ~h~il~n~~~m~n in ~he fl~s~~ix such as Tennessee, and especially Reyubliran .east~rn Ten'!cle::Jsee, days of the exam period in orde.r t·cfused to continue voting for Repubhcan Prestdentlal. ca';ldl ates. to relieYe some of the burden on rnion studPnts bear down on final examinations. • tion, is to misunderstand the pur- pose of liberal education. It seems to be essential thata college .such as Union should allow the ·individual student to guide his \' ! ... oughly il analyze ; ness, to procesl:i. --------------------------------------------------------- own development to a large ex- ·• .:.\lore than anything else, the retum to the Democratic fold was their professors · I Advanta<>es at laro·e in the world an increas- prompted by a commitment to the T.V.A. Senator Goldwater had Student\ Honesty 1 Despite these dr~Yback:; there ing in~lination to stretch unduly promised to sell at least the \unneces:;ary\ parts o_f the T.V .A. For Although this plan seems to be 1 ::;eem lo be so many adn{ntages the powers of society over the in- the fll'cit time in many years. the east~rn part of Tennes;;b·ce \b\'ent I an excellent means of eliminating I to the idea behind the Haverford dividual, both by force Qf opinion Democratic, and the. Johnson ticket ca!'l'ted the \yhole. state 1 a out much of the distress usually as- Plan 01 er \Cnion'::; present exam and by legislation. The small lib- ;jQ';[, a complete shtft from th~ past three. Prestd~nttal electtonl\. soc::iated with periods in which the I policy, that a thorough evalua- era! arts college has a vital func- Ao-ain, in N orthem and Mtcl- West em mdustnal areas, the Sen- student must suffer a barrage of tion of the effectiveness of this tion in reaffirming the value of ator's.;iew~ o_n ci':il .rights and socia~ se.cur~~y :''~re ~·ebu~~d. In ~he exams within a few days, there plan could well prove worthwhile individual thmtght. An honors unre t::;olatwmst llams states, th: l'ie~a~Ol s sttong. fOJelgn pohcy are many problems which are pre-~ for the college. Instead of mak- system regulated by the student::J gambit was refuse~. T~e revolt of tr:;tdttwn~l ~epubll~an .. st~!es an~ sented. There is always the dif- ing the educational process a reg- would place a greater respoihlibi\. the ab::;olute trouncmg Gold\;·ater recei\'ed e\l. en m ~he S\\ mg state: ficulty of trusting the honesty of I in1ented, impenamal one, the Hav- ity on every membe1· nf the col indicate that all he stood for and bJ: w~s repudiat~d by an ovet- the student. This problem would erford Plan places a great empha- lege, and would, no doubt, be vio-- whelming portion of the voters. Thts ~ttuatiOn bnngs us to. the !no doubt be especially acute in a ::;is on the individual. If the small' lated by some. However, for the problem of the Democrats. Was the electwn a mandate for action? fratet\llity oriented school such as college L;; unable to make individ- main portion of the college com- X I sues i Union. Also, such a plan might ual development the focal point munity, there might very well be . • 0 . s. . . cause a great amount of adminis- of education, there seems little a tendency towards accepting- this The tenor of the l'amp:.ugn mdtcates to .me th~t tt \\ a.s not. In trative red tape. reason for its existence. There is 1 load eagerly. If students are ca- tent, so that when he is gradu- ated, he will be able to live an honest and responsible life. Such are some of the lineaments of the ethical <:haracter which the culti- vated intellect will form, apart from the restrictions set up by the machinery of society or a ·col- !E:g·e's administration. The Haverford Plan represents .111 important ::Jtep towards. the tealizatio.n of the goals of libeJ;al ~ducation. One may question its \ .. dl'ectiveness at Un·iQn, and will probably find some very tangible failures in the plan. However, it appears to this writer to be an 0 ideal for which we should strive very few {!ampaigu:; uu the state lencl (that IS for Senator or Repre- sentative) ,,·ere \the issues\ really debated. Generall~ the campa1gns \l'et·e eithet· an attempt on the part of the Repubhcans to defend Goldwater, or an attempt on the part of the Democra~s to bran.d revoltinn Republican:; with the Goldwater label. The natwnal Prest- .----------------------------------------------.with all our energies. We should ,., l d 'th \th ' \ dential campaign was probably even ess concerne WI e tssues: Movie Review: Shoot 1\'he Piano Player begin to question what we are and what we would like to be. If a college such as Union does not •~ c.onsider such broad-minded, pro- gressive educational policies, it will lose a great deal of its rea- son to be. What pulicy questions J.id arise ~vere re~oh·ed merely on the basts · of past action. ~either Presidenttal candidate faced the problem of Civil Hights for :->II citizens squarely. Goldwater to?k the state~' rig·hts stance, popular in five of the six states f!e earned,. a!ld :r:rest- ~ntJ~n~eo~~~ili~~uili~dcle~~eCtvllR~~L------------------------------B-y_D_n_a_l_d_S_cl_~_u_1_z __ ~F;.lmSer;eS. Act of Hl64. ln the at·ea of alleYiating poverty, SeJ?ator Goldwater .,_ ., criticized people fur being poor anc! Johnson mer~ly cite~ th!\ Poverty • • Act patised under his AdministratiOn. The. fore1gn poh.cy l.ssne ,\'a.s 1 In_ \Shoot the. Piano Player,\ ; un in the grand James Bond man- life 11·hich rLvulves around his (Continu~d from Page 1) t) 11uthing more than a huge numbers g~me mth each ca~dldate thtO\\- director Francois Truffaut has ner. The results, however, are un- 1 l'afc job and the rearing of his Herald · Tribune could say: ing :ne~~tonn~\5e figure~ a~d hystencal ~tatements ( soft 011 com- taken the elements ~f a melo-l mitagated\Y hilarious, fo1·. Tr!fi'· i Y<?ung son Fido. He .is frightened \Among the best examples of the tnumsm anJ tnesponsible ) at the othrL . . 1 drama garbed them m resplend- 1 fuut combmes th1s s~rnthetlc nnx· j oi v .o!ence, yet he JS constantly new French picture making .. , All in_ all, the {!an;·paig-~ revolved. ubo~t. th: tssu.es reso.lv~d m ent robe:; of l:ila:pstick, ::Jatire and: ~ure wi:th the mastet:'s touch. He bei1_1g drawn. into _it, and is ~ill!- Truffaut has Lrought his natur:.tl •· the pa:;t tlmty y{!at's. \ ery lrttle mcntwn 11 a~ ll!.lt!e b} the Ptestc~ent ! whimsy and accentuated them by. 1s absolutely deternuned to hm·e :;elf respun::nble <hrectly or mdt- ttehnical fluency to a point of uf the ptu[.~<>scd :\1edicare bill or the ~r?blem;; wh tch mu;.t Sflmet.tmll a thin 'border of tragedy. The I fun while making this film. Even redly, for several violent deaths. t1·ue meeting with hi:; peculiar ;;oun bt.: ducllt with t·egun.l.ing urban !tnng. The Demorrat~. rPCt>Jver I movie employ·s e\·ery conceil·ablt: I the heavies who carry out the It all may sound very gloomy in combination uf !!UilllJUSsion and a mandate-a mandate to mai~tain the sta~us quo. At 110 tt.me wer~ kind of comic idea to tell the kidnapping are zany types who synopsis-and, of course, it is - lyrical comic sense.\ the citizens ginm an opportumty to pass JUdgment on the Issues of 1 story t>f a honky-tonk pianist I rattle off outlandish. philosophy but someho·w it is also terribly the future. . . I wot·king in _a cheap cafe in P~ris. I tht·ou~h01;t th~ abductwn. funny. . . . . Convocatt• on ~o Compass . . 1 . Truffaut 1s a staunuch admtrer I It lS 1mpo1t~nt to. note that In a rev1ew of thts film 1t 1s • • • The Demol·ratic party, then, has. no t•um-pas::J rcadmp; by wh1ch of tho~e epic \Grade ll\ Holly- I only w~en the picture IS over does necessary to comment on the to l'luut the future l·our::~e of the natt<-?11· The party k.no\~·s that th; I wood rl'ime thrille~·s. He ?ees 1 the des1g11: and eYe:!!- t~e plot,, b~· superJ;I photography anJ. photo- (Continued from Page 1) nation does not want. to turn back, bul Just where 4oes 1t \\ant to go· I them as not only bemg- meanmg- 1 come c.Jcal .to the VJe\\er. Th1s lS g1aph1c effects employed by lVI. uf modern interest in the desert l\uque;-;tionally now ill th~ time fvr the Democratic party .to lay the 1 ful, but as containing th~ essen~e 1 due prt~nanly to the fact that the Truffaut. In one scene, a bottle wastes uf Arabia. foundation::; fur the futurt:!. However, a move forward u btt too fast I of film making. For hun, th~11· 1 movte I~ made of frag:11ents - of milk is splashed on the wind- Abm·e all, Dr. Glueck hal:i found for the voter:; mav find the Demuerat::; on the short end of f~ture violence i~ poetry which embodtes some d1m and my~tenous a~d shield of a car, anti we look a great Jeal uf sati:>faction in his elections if the Republicans can ohed the albatross of Goldwatet•tsm. I the dream-like quality of fairy I some ters. e and . acr1d. Muc-~ m throug-h it at the white-smeared \vork. As he put it, \The discov- . ~ 1 tale:;. Yet, he himself does not ~he y>'ay of meanll;tgs Df!d feelings city streets. A fin get· on a door- cries l have made concerning the Thll'd Party· . fullow the tried and tme formula 1 1s hmted at, but little IS ·set down bell, blown up tu gigantic ::Jize, be- ancient cultures of the desert have It I) h•rhafJ::; the hupe uf both pmti.es lies in a comment made th!s 1 for his own film. He has f~rsaken 1 sqtwt·ely. Perh~ps one of the comes a surreali::tic picture. There I underlined in a very positive way \\'eek by 1 ww-Republkan Senator Strom Thurmond. ~c not!'d that tf the ·studio lot to f~nd hts own , film's most poignant. momc!lts are photographic puns and Key- the miracle of life and the de- the Hepublican party doe::; nut continue a.· cunservatl\'C path, a con-~ backgrounds and settmgs-from a 1 c'?me~ w~en the hero 1.s walkmg ::;tune cop chases. In short, the velopment of mankind.'' set·Yative party may appear. Such a party would n? doubt be short- grimy quat·ter on the otuskirts of I hts gu·lfrtend ba.ck to hC'r ~~part· p'cture bears the mast:!t: touch lived and 1 ·elatively ineffective except as an e~ucatwnal party. Paris, to a farmhouse th:=<t Grand- I m~nt, all the wh1le a:t.temptmg- t' ,,j' direction. Re).!.anU\'s::; uf. what hapl;Cl_IS in the R.epuJ;>hcan .pur:y, the De.mo· 1 ma M:o,;es could have pam ted. 1 hm}d ~1p rnough r_o~r~~~e t~ h~ld :VI. Trulfault, who made \::lhoot !falTard's As~t. Prof. Leon 1 1 cmts. are faL\ed wtth de.tl!llllll!lllg a path whtch w1ll have thC' same I hPI hand. T~e .sc( m :\' n.ttutal the Piano Plaver\ aftet· the .. 400 B1amson, who. e~1ted ~he 135-page aJ.lpro\·al that the policie.::~ of the pa:;t ,no\\' have. Whet~er the Demo- Totally Wacky , <'ha_rm and. w!nmng bashfuln•;\~ Blows\ and ·before \Jules and book \Exammmg m. Harvard Cl'ats must lose an electton to detcrmme the best couise depends on The pianist, played by Charles; rleftes ?esct·tpt~on; one ca~ ea~tly ,.Jilll,\ has compounded humot·, .im- I College,\ notes that it lS unusu~l the outcome o.f the struggle in the G.O.P. Aznavour, was a one-time con-; relate tt to peisonal expenence. aginatiun, logic and illog-ic, beau- I for the faculty of a great um- ~ cert artist who retains all of the I Pianist Is Timid ty, nonsense and pain into a com- versity to bet~d. thems~lves to .the GO HO~E (2 OR MOREl SHIRTS 20c SUITS -------98c PANTS ------49c Dambrose £1.EA!,._. ! ! PANTS 49c JACKETS -----49c SWEATERS ---49c Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5193 Just Around the Corner from Mohawk Natio.nal Bank Jay Jewelry 315 STATE STREET ~iamond6 ... moodiness expected of one in that I Perhaps the film's greatest pl~tely satisfying piece of work. I task of ~xammmg the1r p~·actices profession. Through totally wacky merit lies in its sharp use of His actors are handled skillfully as exammers. The Committee on and unbelievable circumstances, he il·ony. The piani·st is basically a and he has assembled some good Educational Policy of Harvard's becomes involved with girls and quiet, timid, girl-shy fellow whose ones. I urge everyone to see I Faculty of Arts and Sciences has ,., gangsters of the Paris under- cRreer was suddenly cut short. \Shoot the Piano Playet·\ when circulated the book encompassing world. He cavorts with ladies of His one desire in life is to remain it is shown tonight at 7:00 and twenty essays to stimulate Fac- ill-repute, becomes the victim of anonymous, leading a peaceful 9:00 in E.E. 22. ulty discussion. kidnappers and generally carries D&J AUTO SERVICE 1372 Union St. BRAKES - TUNE-UP WHEEL ALIGNMENT & BALANCE Dl 6-9644 Co. rv . ' ' .. ' ...... ., ........ . ~ WALKER'S ~ RITZ REST AU RANT PHARMACY, INC. N. J. Comanzo-H. l. Walker 509-511 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. FR 4-7709 •44 4 '4A 4 &4A.A4-*+A.A•A'A\\ 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featurinca: - HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS - Catering To Small & Large Parties Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week ABLE PART TIME MEN ARE NEEDED for our stores, the new MIKE'S GIANT SUBMARINE, and the new NEBA ROAST BEEF. I . Let Us Be Your Host For That Special Occasion I The Finest Service Year Round NEED AT LEAST SIX MEN. APPLY IN PERSON (Restaurant adjoining) Student Rates •)! I) Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. SATURDAY ONLY- I- 4 P.M. Mike Giant Submarine Sandwich Suite 35 Westgate Building BALLSTON LAKE MOTEL Route 50 857 Saratoga Rd. Ballston Lake, N. Y. Phone: EX 9-5193 for reservatiohs •} l) Arnold Fisher '50 WESTGATE SHOPPING CENTER, ALBANY , ~mly v.ali m a yoUJ I w~ scholarsr the class The week. It l'oom an< for notic The for high( sturdy lL for .all t .o gave hirr figures l Associat a year c • has an a· the Unit played a of the '' ; problem Non ment or No\\ Firs port. Tl ougohly .l this wm t given.) Secc ing to tl and sevE Thir ·• for the to nearl show th, r~eives ~ no such then it< Fou to her \ .. in fact against in the ( sistant J is a Ion <• for bolt ants as l<'i fj • this: \' prograrr proporti gt·ades 9 poor·ly c structed ienced a t•eporter ., ~ ... ,.,. ... (~ ~ t .,.. ll 4 4 • 4 .. Nl ,, I , B •• I I I! \

13, 1964 • ilOD ir seUish- resist the ~. a more .. would be ' mal stress Friday, .November ,13,\' 1964 Faculty Column:. Objectivity? . I By P1•of'. Henry Fe1·g·uson Scholarship and the beharior of the educated man have no con- nection whateve1·. This ha~ been proved to me by The Conco1·dy. I've always resisted the· iv·ied tower label to my life a,; a scholar, adequate many stu- d by tight be able to ' their ca- fits of the 11 , , ,;uggesting that no one can know of life better than a man of l~al'll- ing. But now I must ad.mit defeat. The image I had of m:: own on :lents will ·s if given •I Lminations ions made dministra-· vocation is utterly shattered. Plea for Object-ivity I had ·Conceived of teaching a:s of influence on students' lives. While never sanguine abuut how much substan.tive ma:erial linge1·eJ on in the mind of the Union College student or alumnus, I yet fancied that he had learned someth:ng pe1~haps more important. That wu::~ to 1 view Hfe and its problems d1spas8ionately aml objective!:~-·, to thor- \' l ._a oughly investigate all facets of a :problem Ol' matter fo1· con<'vrn, to d the pur- ation. It .ta college allow the guide his large ex- ·• is gradu- \ analyze thoughtfully and' systematically, to conclude with judicious- ;'1/ew Mountebank's director William Meriwether (right) ness, to interpret ~vith wi.sdom, a_nd then to. act on ~he b~si.s of this !or Sam Morrell discuss their fin;t effort. process. By teachmg met-hods of scholarship, I beheve, th1s - the and co-direc- • only valid mark of the educated man - could be instilled lastingly J in a young man. A d l was wrong. There is no connection between the .methods of fl orra scholarship and the actions of a student or alumnus once he has left Curtain Rises :o live an Life. Such nts Gf the the culti- the classroom. (Continued from Page 1) i them in vain. His is the last long The Concordy pl'ove,d t~i? h~ it.~ l~ad. article un pa.ge one last rs a kind of frame, throwing its wail of poetic despair, and any week. It showed that obJeC~lvlt_y 1s somethmg to be left I~ the class- contents into shm·p relief and comfort to be found must be ~m, apart :et up by r or a ·Col- 1:oom a!J.d a thorou!?h exammatJon of the facts esche·wed m a search enlarging them into something £ound within ourselves. :for notice or notonety.. . . , more grand and more mysterious L'epresents vards. the 'j, ~. . Reexanunat1on of F~cts Ne~ded . . than life itself-expanding them of libeJ;al Lestion its ~he article -from .the ~~culty pomt of VIew- \\US a mce plug f'inall into the ultimate dramatic for h1gher faculty salar1es. ~he trouble was that the r.epOl:ter - a tool_!the symbol. For Frisch ~turdy lad by all count;; - did not bother to persevere Ill h1s search· the. dramatist's merit lies in hi~ 11 , for .all. the. facts. .He Ju.st took .\''hat the De.an (~!so a sturdy lad) ability to symbolize successfully gave h1m and publ~shed 1t. !'lothmg wrong _w1th this, except that. the to embod the essence of a qual~ figures and materials published were denved from the Amencan it or / e of rson He 0 er- Association of University Professors Bulletin, some of them exactly { l ~ ~h t . P~l ' f d and will 'f tangible owever, it to be an uld strive We should t we are to be. If a vear old. Newer figures are available on campus. Union College I a .es liS ea 1e :1~n as a m n • has an active chapter of A.A UP, in fact one of the largest chapters in 1 of, dou~le-focus for !t ~perates. ?n the United States in percentage of faculty belonging. It has long J t.\ '? planes ~f , reahty' the fn st played a constructive role in bettering faculty salaries and is proud 1 ehes on om acceptance .of the of' the way it has worke<l \:Vith the Administration on thi·s critical qesh and blood· charactei on .a P roblem over the course of the last few years. ~lmple level, an~ the second. JS l does not » 1ded, pro- olicies, it •f its rea- !S • • • ,ge 1) Lld say: •les of the king .•. I) i::; natural •· point of : p-eculiar >sion and •· ·Local AAUP Not CBnsttlted .. he larger-than-hfe sY!nbol vvh1ch None of the officers of the .AAUP chapter were asked to com- ou~ht, to be. ouy n;am. conc.e;n. ment or elaborate upon the figures and observations published. Fr1sch s mag1c hes m. h1s. ab:hty Now what was left out\? What was in error? to mak~ these symbolic cieatwns First, the AAUP does not publish ••Medlan figures\ in its re- so d.ommant that they take pus- port. These· medians corne from another, on-campus source (thor- sesswn of the spectator;, th~y be- oug·hly reputable, .bY the way, bu~ cited. o~ly as \cornl?lementary to come .more r:~l th.an hfe 1ts~l~. this was the pttbl!cation of ce1·tam statistics ... ,\ w1th no source I Unhke. Du11enmatt, howe\. ei • given.) · 1 ~ax ~nsch. h~s n? unswervmg Second the. number of faculty in each rank are incorrect accord- • Yl~wpomt w1thm th1s framework. ing to the AA UP figures for they include those on sabbatical lean!, · !fls Rymb?ls ar~ not unrelent- and several special cases of visiting or part-time personnel. ! mg even .m qual1ty, nor are th.e Third, the article ptirpovts that an \A\ average salary rating 1 plays .which .they popul~te um- ·o for the rank of full professor in the AA'CP rating;:; \is equivalent' foi:m 111 merit. What I~ more, to nearly $12,000 ... \ while the figures (in front of me) in fact 1 Fnscl~'s g_reater. o1· lesser uwol.ve- show the full professor at .an average compensation of over $13,690 \ ment Ill h1s subJe~t ~ends ~o br~ng receives \A\. Wh<~.t is me(lnt by \starting ·salaries\ is uncertain for us more or less 111S!d~ w1!h h1m, •t \ no such figm:es appear in AA UP statistics. If it means instructor, We can feel, w~ ran Identify and then it errs by $50 to $680 in th.e two fig-ures given. we can see Jus stren~ths and n. • • FoUlth, while Union is indeed in a backward po·sition compared weaknesses better ~or .It. '!he ge 1) .he detiert has found .ion in his h.e discov- !rning the eser!; have ;itive way l the de- to her \competition\ for faculty - a gap which must be closed - !~lays are not th~ 1romc recJta- in fact Union has improved. According to the 1964-65 figures, used tJ.ons of a coo', 1mpersonnl out- against the 1964.:65 indices of the AA liP (not the 1963-64 ones used s1de _obsern.>.r, lecturmg us on our in the Concordy), Union';:; rating in minimum compen~;ation for As-1 pers1stepce m et·.ror; they are the sistant Professor has gone up from B la::;t yea:· to A th1s Y.ear. There productwns of ~n mtensely r<:n- is a long way to go: Professor::; and Assul'lates are :;ttll rated C lerned man, socwl parables w1th 11 \ for both average comptm::;ation and minimum compensation, Assist-J a \'ita] co~ten:~yorary message. ants as B for average salary. I Through h1s Invol.vement, the Distortions Accounted For playwright holds lumself above Jt'ifth, if we of the AA t.:P had been asked, we would have said mere pl'OI>aganda in the Shaw \ .o this: \Yes Union needs to continue and even tu ha::;ten its crash vein. Frisch manages to be more program t~ impt·ove faculty salar~etl. But, until Gniu1!'s enormous! puet than publicist,, and. refuses proportion of full professors coll1e mtu closer balance w 1\h the lower 1 to bludgeon us w1th Ius moral , ·of. Leon '' l 135-page Harvard .s unusual •reat uni- ~ ves to the · practices lffiittee on Harvard's ences has •) )ill passing Llate Fac- ____ ..,. .. , r gmdes (after I get my next promotion) Union will continue to rate; club. \ poor·ly on the AA UP scale 'because of the way the scales m·e con- · If there is no definite and con- structed.\ This. obsen·ution could on~y be made if a rather exper-~ sistent vantage point running ienced and observant eye saw the basis for the figures - or told the uniformly through his work, and 1·eporter how to assess them. 'it' his plays refuse to surrender :::; ;:;:;;:::;;::;:;:;::;:;:;::;::;:;::;:;;::;:( C~o:;n~ti;:n:;u:;e:;d;::;o;:Tn:;P::;:a;g~e:::;4;::.~) ;:;::;:;::;:.;::;::;:~;::;:;:;;::;:~ I t h em selves en t ire l y to ideas, 1 Fl'is:.:h does create a thematic un- ! ity of sorts. He holds that men learn nothing: from experience, h C II · ? T that if experience is what man- ~~ Hav·e you see t e o e9e rmgs. wo kind calls its mistakes, it persists in repeating tl1e same errors time styles from which to choose. Order now and time again. This attitude renders solutions impossible, and for Christmas delivery. in Frisch's work, we look for t DIAMANTE'S The Campus Bookstore t) l\ • ' • • • f + 6 + • • • ... 6 ' • • ... A 4 • l i ,4 4 ' 4 ' 4 4 J, 4 ... i • ' 4 A- ;. .. ' 4- ' • ·- Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room .) ·Host :casion ce Ling) ,, AKE •} ·oga Rd. Y. l) ~3 s ') ~ •• \ Down to Lollis', let us ~o, Let the la~er freely flow. A unique place to dine 'With old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 -- Corn~r ·266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our R~TJ4SK£LI.ER For reservations phone FR .4-8917 Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD --------=~-------:-:-:--:----:-:-:-:::-::-··· . 32.AMF BOWLING.LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BA~ ON PREMISES Opp. The Brownell Gate o.n Nott St. Open Daily 10 to 3 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. - 3 A.M. tTTTftfi't+tTYfiff¥'t'T'tT~ STUDENT TRAVEL. • College Tours • College Study Programs STUDENT & FACULTY GROUP TOURS Arranged at LOWEST PRICES Books Now open for Christmas and Recess Vacations Schenectady Travel Bureau, Inc. Est. 1930 424 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. PHONE FR 7-8506 Agents For All leading Airlines- S.S. Companies - Railroads and Car Rental Cos. ··············~······· What is more, none of Fl\isch's plays follow a realistic pattern completely; they are naturalistic and impressionistic at the same time. He uses the vagaries of chronology to create a dream world, but one compressed, vivid ::.nd intensely real. Frisch oper- ates on a time scale that is pur- po~ely out of joint, and produces in the process a theatre that can <'ombine objeetive anrl subjective reu~ity as he wishes to do. The fardcal and pointless na- ture of human experience means that man learns nothing, and this ;s nowhere more evident than in Frisch's early Chinese Wall. In this, his closest approach to the Theatre of the Absurd, the au- : hor pictures an anachronistic dinner party attended by great historical figures. His moral soon becomes evident: the pres- sure of a new atomic age creates the danger that the repetition of the same historical imbecilities will lead to the nuclear self-de- struction of the human race. In The Firebugs, Frisch particular- izes his philoSOJ>hical battle- ground. This is a political al- legory; a satire on the middle class stupidities that allow the establishment of totalitarian go\'- ernments. The author sees hu- man natm·e as static once again, anu basically incapable of effec- th·e opposition to brute, amoral force because of a tendency to be basically cowardly and guilt-rid- den. Frisch sees the moral toll paid by those who wish to suc- ceed in a middle class society as eaving them without a leg to .stand on in opposition to power l.ungry tyrants who emp'oy basi- cally the same techniques. To avoid immediate disaster, the op- pressed middle-class hero must appease this uneasy bedfellow, with the logical result that c.on- tinued appeasement leads him ul- timately to supply the aggressor with the means for the destruc- tion of societv in the interests of friendship. Frisch sees this as a timeless phenomenon but pro- vides no answers other than a ~horus of firemen who represent the forces of stability and order, (Continued on Page 4) MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP 515 UNION STREET (Next to Union Inn) Specializing in RESTYliNG OF HAIRDOS Each head is given personal Care RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT DRUG SUNDRIES FOUNTAIN SUPPtiES BAR SUPPLIES NOTIONS NOVELTIES . POLYETHELENE CELLOPHANE RENTALS: GLASSWARE DISHES SILVERWARE DACY PAPER CO. Successor to J. NOGEE & SONS, Inc. Estoblished 1888 WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS PAPER-PAPER BAGS STATIONERY- SCHOOL SUPPLIES Phone FR 4-4429 28-34 N. Broadway Schenectady 5, N. Y. 3 Economics: The Budget By Riehard Sifton One of the major issues in the recent Presidential campaign was I g'overnment spending. It is certain that an economy as 'large as !lUI'~ 1s extremely complex and that om· l'ountry is 1\'e:ilthy. However, the trend of government fiscal measu·res in recent years indicates that ou1· wealth may be somewhat false and, pe1haps, unstable. 1 Johnson's economics, while not differing significantly from those of I I his predecessor, may produce undesirable results. ::-:eed for Expansion I The \V ar on Poverty will undoubtedly eost considerably more l than $!JGO miHion. Th~ gove1 nment estimates that then ai'E.' approxi- 1 matJly !35 million people .in this country who live in poverty. This would amount t~ Sltll1e\\'here in the nei.ghborhood o~ $27 per person p~r year, a,;:;unung that the program 1s to be cont:mued. Ho11·ever, in onle~· to properly serve a community of 35 million peoplE', the g.n·et·nment will probably need an additional staff Ill' up to 250,000 worbrs. At $4000 a year each, the cost of administration would surpasll the present total outlay. Although ~ocial awareness and help for the underpridleg·ed are extremely humanitarian theories, one may welt wonder how far the Clll'l'ent expl!ndi.tUJ,es could go to- ward solving the problem. As for the real standard of living of the !!5 million people, it is most likely highet· than the standa1·d of living· of a great majority of the world's population. This is not to say that nothing should be done· but because the government already pours $66 billion a year dire~tly lnto the pri\•ate sector of the economy, one might alw begin to wonde1· whether or not the problem is con- siderably exaggerated. The War on Poverty appea1·s too ridiculous·, too superficial to be called even a cruel hoax. Although the current fiscal budget has been statd as $97.9 billion, the government's actual expenditures have been estimated at more than $100 billion. The additional $2.2 billio-n will (and has) come from the sale of g-overnment-owned assets, particularly mort- gages and promissory notes. This additional income is not announced in the budget; it is used to \\Tite off, in advance, an equal amount of planned govemment expenditures. This would not seem significant except for the fact that such sales ·of govemment assl?ts this yem· w~1·e more than double what they were last year. The pt·ese.nt budget is nut, a,; Johnson has ::mld, lower than la::;t year's; it is, in fact, higher. There are some aspects of deficit financing which many people may fail to realize. The sen·icing of the national d€bt ( inte1·est, ad- ministration, etc.) costs nearly $11 billion a year, and it it~ the second largest item in the budget. Welfare is the third most expensive item, a:t about $7 billion per year. As the debt rises, so does the cost of servicing. The debt circulates in the form of Treasury bills, bonds and notes. France cuurrently holds enough of out· g·ovemment's obligations, if redeemed at one time, to more than 11.·i.pe out our monetary gold reserve:>. Although we are not on a. full gold stand- ard, nor is there any great likelihood that massive redemption would occur, the fact remains that a serious drain on our gold reserves would cause a multiple contraction of our money supply and, by a still larger multiple, of available credit. Increased Budget The federal budget is expected to reach as high as $105 billion for the coming fiscal year, incurring another larg·e c:lefidt. At the same time, Johnson anticipates no significant inc !'ease in govern- ment revenues. In fact, a cut in federal excise taxes ha·s been seri- ously considered and later, further cuts in personal and corporate> income taxes a1·e also a goal. The War on Po,·erty will, of course, absorb a large portion of the increase in expenditures. There may also be a significant in- crease in the outlays fo1· all of the space and science programs, moderate increases for the farm and welfare progra rns, and, pe1·haps, :m almost negligible decrease in military expenditure-s. The drop in military expenditures would be the result of a lark uf nE>I\' defense programs. Secretary of Defen;;e MrNumara has recently expressed his continued opposition to further development of manned bombers, so that the extensh·ely expensive prototype of' the RS-70 \dll hecome somewhat of an oddity once it has performed its tests. Johnson's hinted attempt at altering the structure of the Federal Reserve System's Board of Governors \Vill ·warrant closer attention in the future. The sevln men on the Board, appointed for tPrm>: of fourteen years each, exert great influence on the rom-se of the econ- omy; if their powers to regulate ihe amount of cre-dit and of money in circulation should ever be adversely aff~cted by dh·ect govern- ment intervention, the results mig·ht not be worth the achieving of a greater degree of' comdination and C'<,operation in the management of the economy. The recent, rapid increase in the price of indu~trial raw materials, the more than generous \Vage settlet:n~nls accorded to auto workers, and other occurrences may require the- kind of atten- tion and action which only independent, professi()nal economist~ would be able, and willing, to give. '¥Y¥T'¥9t9'¥YY't¥¥999¥t''+¥¥VTi¥f9T\\T\'T+tfWt +t fWff+ftt DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Le9al Bevere~ges 118. 120 JAY STREET • 4 4 •• I ••.••••••.•••••• ·- •• I ••• •· •• ·- ,_ ••••• ~ •. '· ••. A •• .&.......A.; Laundl'ornat 1585 VanVranken Ave. (2 blocks from Nott St.l SELF SERVICE 25c WASH - 10c D'RY PROFESSIONAL SERVICES LAUNDRY - SHIRTS - CHINO'S DRY CLEANING \ 1 0ne Call Will Do It All'\ I ,.

4 Qlournr ,..u!1.D 11or ~~.~.d?'r ~~[}=~~·~ 17 ~(,~l 95 ~trust a 0 ~~, ... i.f\f.'t .... , o··'lro .. ···'& J~,~i~~-- ~lV.tcTAU\i· ' Published Fl'idays during the school Editorial Omce, Old Gym, Union year by the Student Body of Union College. Publication Office, Sche· College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na- neclady Printing Company, 502 Broadway. Entered in the Sche- tionnl Advertls ing Representative: nectady Post Office as Second Class National Advet·t!slng Service, Inc., Mall Jllatter. Subscription 15c a College Publlshers Representative, co 11 y: $a a year deHvered anywhere 420 Madison Ave., N. Y. C. In the Unlt•d States. LARRY HOROWITZ '65 .............. 346-9895....... .. Editor-In-Chief ~!ARK OIJE:-;ZJ~GRl\ '65 ............ DI6-9959 . . ............ nusiness 1lanager HI CHARD AHO:-.f '6o ...................... DI6-9848 ..................................... Managing Editor WILLIA11 T. '\\'1~:'-:E ':!4 ..................................................................... Faculty Advisor Rebuttal Scholarship and the behavior of the college professor have no connection whatever. This has been proved to us by Professor Henry Ferguson's faculty column in this week's issue. We have been guilty of ivory tower idealism in suspect- ing that professors practice what they preach when they are outside the classroom. Professor Ferguson preaches that we must \view life and its problems dispassionately and objectively,\ we must thoroughly investigate all facets of a problem or matter for concern,\ we must .. analyze thoughtfully and systematically\ and that we must \con- clude with judiciousness and interpret with wisdom.\ Then he proceeds to accuse the Concordiensis of ignoring these precepts. Yet his column is guilty of this whereas last week's lead article really wasn't. Professor Ferguson states that the number of faculty in each rank are incorrect according to the AA UP figures. A casual glance at the data box: on the front page would show that there are no faculty numbers Usted in the AAUP table. Faculty numbers are listed above that under the heading of (Salary) Ranges, 1965. Thus Professor Fergu- son has violated a primary rule of good scholarship-he is factually incorrect. The good professor has also misinterpreted the point of the article when he states that none <>f the officers of the AAUP chapter here were asked to comment or elab- orate on the figures and observations published. The article was simply meant to give a straight comparison of where Union stands in the salary war with the schools THAT ARE CURRENTLY AHEAD OF US. We went to Dean Lockwootl, certainly a knowledgeable source, and asked him for the latest figures he had. He c<>mplied with <>ur wishes stating that the 1963-64 figures were the latest available. He may have been mistaken in this. But surely it is not practical to get to everyone that has any knowl- edge on the subject. You go to what you consider to be the best possible source, and this was done. Besides, we were not interested in comments on the facts, we were only interested in the facts themselves; and Lockwood assured us that these were the latest facts. We did publish incidentally the current Union salary ranges, but accord- ing to the Dean, 1964-65 figures from the other colleges weren't available. We had hoped that comments and observations upon the data p1·esented would be forthcoming this week, and we are happy that Professor Ferguson didn't let us down. The article was written in an objective style. Yet it is also true that there was an objective behind the article. We don't feel that the Concordiensis is only on campus to report what happens on campus. We feel that it is one of the few ways that one can bring campus issues into focus, and thus we weigh certain issues and give them more play than others. In other years, under other editors, a story as our lead of last week might not have appeared at all. By giving it the play we did we are not only objectively reporting the news, but are placing it, (h<>pefully), as a topic of debate and conversation before the campus. We arc not only concerned \Vith the past, but with the future, and the discussions on the issues of today sometimes bear fruit in the days following. L~Idole \Iist'·rimnle pour lc pau\Te JDOLE. Son jeune et avide rdormateur, Aaron Rutherford le troisieme, a produit, en fait, un editorial absurde, bien mal soutenu par une erreur flagrante ~c n:·vclant :'t Ia lecture de son article. Pour cclaircir la situation, Ie noircissage de papier qu'on ;1 pn \'oir dans le Cnnrnrdien.~is, sur Mademoiselle belagney fut imp rime a pres que le programme, dit \Scholar in Resi- dence,\ f{it abandonne en faveur d'une tentative de \sym- po~.ium.\ Cette decision fut faite au printemps dernier par l.arry Hormvill et Frank Gado (lcs premiers successeurs de Dan Prigmore) en collaboration avec Vic Fazio, Sven Petersen, et John Girdner. En raison des responsabilites exigeantes, l'oli\Tage commence SOliS Ia direction de ces personnes fut confie aux hans soins de Marty Jay et Sam Ullman. Au depart, lc sujct du ••symposium\ etait consacre a !'affaire Sacco-Ven- zetti. Les invitations n'attirerent qtte des refus et Ie sujet fut c hangc pour \reapportionment\ par un vote du Conseil des Etudiants cet automne. Si Monsieur Rutherford doit entamer des recherches pour ses articles, il devrai t Ie fa ire avec plus de conscience et de precision. (translated by: Michel Brillie) Letter to the Editor To the Editor of Concordiensis :tcr j<Jb with what has been in- The article about the recent eluded and also to add new devel- changes in the Mechanical Engi- opmeat8 and concepts to those al- neering curriculum whh~h ap- ready covered. . . . peared in the October 30th issue Because the semor year m thls of Concordiensis does not reflect IH'ogram h.a~ been e~tremely an understanding of the educa- heuvy, requ1rmg- 19 credit hours tiona! objective this department ~a~il semester, we have also eli!ll- felt were involved. Some of the mated a man~atory elective statements it contained do have course, but provided the oppor- a relation to my interview with t_umty to tal;e an extra elective your r~porter, but the report fails i.or tho~e studeJ~ts .who can han- to convey the sense which I feel ule the load effecti_vely. . does lie in these changes. I hope . ~~ . summary, th1s curricu~um you will permit me the oppor- I e\ ISIDn.s ha.s redu~ed t_he requu·e- tunity to clarify this matter. ~twnt~ fo_r g l~duatlon 111 Meehan- . .. . . leal Engmeermg- from 140 to 134 F1:rst, .the .flelcl o.f M;echamc~l rredit hours; it lms reduced the ~ngmeermg JS tmd.ergomg rad-1- number of courses requi-red from ral cha~ges, and this department 7 to 5 a term ·during the Seni . has tr:ed to relate to t~ese year and from 6 to 5 a term i 1 ch~~g-es throu~~ tw~ p~·ev1ous the Junior year; and it has pet~ cmnrul~m revisions m 1ts 12- nJitted a more efficient struclur- y.ear ex·IStel'!c~ a1;d thr~ugh c_on- ing (Jf severa'l courses so that we t:nuul n;od;tftcabon of subje~t wiH be able to present a modern mat~~-~· \'!thm courses. Two basic eng-ineering· program of highest mo?lftcations ~ave now be~n made quality. wh1eh fonnahze· recent. 1~1ternal 'Fhe changes which have been chang~s and extend then· tmpact. made affected only courses with- The\f•:·st. of the~~ relat~ to the in the Engineering Division. We rou~ses 111 expenmen-tatton and hope still more fundamental re- design. We h~ve g1:ouped. all visi()ns can be made as a result !a bora tory expenences m the _JUn- of the present college-wide cur- J~r year of our progran; m a ricular study. We were well smgle .course 1!1 E,xperi~nental aware of the fact that such a l\ie~hamcal Engmeer.mg 1': the study would l>e forthcoming but ~e~10r y~ar, a course m_Engme~r- we fe't that our proposals 'were 1~g J?e~ign and Expez?mentatw~ compatible with the long-range has 1eplaced courses m each of objectives of the division and the t~1ese separate areas, and an elec- coltege, aml also that we could ttve. pt'OJect course has been made ttot afford to wait for the stud avmlab!e. These ~hanges refle~t to be completed before thes~ our bel!ef that design and expert- thanges wet·e instituted. ~enta~10n are the essence of en- 1 hope the program as present- gm~e!'lng, that. they. !1ave real ed herein will make more sense subJect matter :n a~d1t10n .to the than the original article indicat- hasw and engme~rmg science~, ed. While much of this may seem and that the proJect method 1~ like pedagogic gohbledy gook to the .m~st effectrv:e means of those unfamiliar with the field, teachmg these subJects. il should be meaningful to those The second formalization in- of your readers who have some volves the subject areas of Ther- famLlial'ity with Mechanical En- modynamics and Fluid Meehan- g-.inee1·ing. irs. These areas are interrelated, Gardner M. Ketchum and we have taught these courses Chairman for several years in a manner Mechanical Engineering which emphasizes the interrela- tion. The material from four old courses has been rearranged for F }t c ) Jl'e~entat ion in three new ones acu y 0 umn entitled Fluid Systems Analysis, Fluid Dynamics and Thermo! En- (:rgy Con version. The Electrical Engineering De- Jlartment has developed a new t·vun;e fur us whid1 n:!plat:es lhf;! funn~r lmsic EE t·oun;e plus In- dustrial Electronics, a course previously given only for Mech- anical Engineering students. The foregoing revisions have resulted in a reduction in the to- tal number of courses taken by ME majors, but no change in the total number of credits are in- vob·ed. We expect that the new packaging will enable our stud- ents to work more efficiently, and, therefore, we expect to do a bet- Andorra. • • (Continued from Page 3) but who must be summoned by the morally weak hero in order to be effective. A:s'DORRA, finally, is Frisch's most recent and one of his most popular works, emerging as the ultimate vindication of his dictum that \theatre is a discussion with a society which either lives its beliefs or corrupts them.\ It is the story of Andri, the young· bastanl son who has been led to believe that he is Jewish by his self-seeking father. ANDORRA establishes the playwright's posi- tion on far more than smugness, phony humanitarianism and anti- Semitism, however. Utilizing the elements of the double focus, Frisch rises above what appears lu the casual observer lo be a polemic on racism. Frisch is concerned with something far more vital-the subtle and insin- uating manner in which modern life pushes the human personality into compartments for the sake of easier management and com- prehension. In the case of Andri, his real identity is overwhelmed by- the prejudice of society, yet he stubhot•nly and persistently re- fuses to believe, in spite of the facts. that he is not the young Jewish boy he has been labelled by his environment. In this age of frenetic journalism, public im- ages and capsulization fo1• easier digestion, Frisch rises above race dots and concentration camps to comment once again on the time- less nature of the blindness and stupidity of human nature. He leaves the solution to us. Seen in its proper perspective, AN- DORRA presents problems which must concern us all. no matter what compartment of society we occupy. Frisch's concern is with the very existence of the human personality. Principals in the Mounte- bank's production include fresh- man Kent Kraft as Andri, with localite Casey Wolfe as his sister- (Continued from Page 3) While I convey my thanks to the Comordy for helping out the AAUP chapter in its campaign for better economic benefits, I ~hed a bitter tear that the pro,·en methods of patient, orderly and thoroughly objective scholarship 1: irl not lap over from the aca- demic activities of editors and re- porters into their fine, high- minded extra-curricular activities Just as we alumni of Union ex- pect varsity football to teach students and alumni sportsman- ship, we hope classroom work will teach scholarship. Hundreds of books in all fields will be put on sale for twenty- five cents per volume in Shaffer Librat•y at 1 p.m., Tuesday, 1'\o- vember 17, Librarian Edwin 1(. Tolan has announced. This will be the third of the book sales which the Libral'Y holds from time to time to dispose of unneeded duplicates. 'Ihe Library often re- ct•ives gifts of books in which are found some volumes tile Library already owns, Tolan explained, and the money obtained by selling thent is used to buy needed books and equipment. In addition, he added, the Libt•ary can by this means h~lp students to build pri- vate libl'aries. Bl,'sidf's book sales, th~ Library sells by means of a \silent auc- tion'• smne of the more valuable duplicates it accumulates. One Huch auction has been held so far. and another is ex:peded later this year. Like previous sales, next Tuesday's will be .held near the Chi Psi alcove on the mezzanine. lovet·, Barblin. Also featured are Yeteran Mountebanks Rod Tul- loss, Werner Liepolt, and Jon Trivers. The entire production is under the direction of Profes- sor William Meriwether of the I}rama Department. Tickets for the play are available from 1 to 5 and 7:30 to 9:30P.M. at the box office in Nott Memorial. Stud- ents are entitled to one free ticl(et, and may reserve it by calling DI G-4098 during- the hours mentioned. Ski Instructors Weekend positions available for skiers to instruct high school boys and girls. Prior instruction exper- ience nol required. Good compen- sation. Excellent ski facilities. Write or <all: SHAKER VILLAGE SKI GROUP P.O. Box 1149, Pittsfield, Mass. Lebanon Springs IN.Y.l 7-1255 Friday, November 13, 1964 Ca~npus Calendar November 13-Film Series, E.E. 22, 7:00 and 9:00 p.m., 'Shoot' the Piano Playe1·\ · November 14-Faculty Squa·re Dance, Old -Chapel, 8:30 p.m. November l6-P1·e-medical Society Meeting, Biology 201, 7:30 . p.m., Dr. Rudo1p:h, University of Virginia Medical School November 17-Convocation, Memorial Chapel, 11:30 a.m., Dean J. Douglas Brown-Wii!iam W. Bennett Memorial Lecture Student CouncH Meeting·, Hale House Student Lounge, 7 :30 p.m. Eng·ineers of Eastern New York, E.E. 22, 8:00p.m. Hi:llel Executin Board Meeting-, Silliman Hall, 8:00 p.m. Novembet' 1S......:Football Movies of Hamilton game, E.E. 22, 7:30 p.m. Hispanic Soc-iety, Silliman Hall, 8:15 p.m. November 19-Neurophysiology Seminar, Physics Seminar Room, 11 :30 a.m., \Physiology of some Cholinergic Syn- apses\- Professor F. L. Lambert. Mountebanks Production, N ott Memorial, 8:30 p.m., \Andorra\ -by Max Frisch N ovembPr 20-Mountebanks Production, N ott Memorial, 8:30 p.m. W R UC Programs SATUIWAY-:s'ov. 14 12:00-Fergie Show-popular to rock-pre-game P.l\I. 1: 30-Union vs. Hamilton-foot- ball-Howard Goldberg 4:00-Fergie-popular to mck 6:00-Albie-jazz, pop, and ro-ck 12:00-Sign off SUNDAY-Nov. 5 P.~l. 3:00-Don House- p()pular al!d folk 6: 00-Classical TUESDAY Same as Monday-Wed. until: P.l\1. 9 :00-Bob Heine-popular folk 10:00-Classical 11:00-Paul Harris THURSDAY Same as Mo11.-Wed. until: P.M. 10 :00-Classical Hour 11:00-Paul Harris FRIDAY P.M. 3: GO-popular 5 :30-Candlelight and wine and 9:00-Mark Zaud~re1·-rock 10:00-Don Abood- Soul sonnds (James Brown and friends) 11: 00-Marty Stmsberg-jazz :'IJOXDA Y .DID WED:SESD.A 'Y P.:.\1. 7 :00-Spotlight-a different art- ist or :::tyle each week 8:40-Al Bangert-Popular and rock :!:00-Popular ii: !lO-Candlelig-ht and wine - music to eat br 10:00-Charlie P.-rock oldies ... with insanity 7: 00- Bob Rice-popular, pi us- 8:00-Sldp and Chuck - folk, surf, rock !l: 00-Michel-jazz, soul (in Frenrh and English) 1 0:00-Ron and Albie-Sinatl·a and the clan 11:00-Paul Harris-jazz, live and on record Jackson, Miss.-{I.P.)-A re- \'amped curriculum designed tu allow more time for seniors to study a b1·oader range of advanc- l'd subjejrts ami to engage in re- sE-arch has been developed hy the chemistry department at Millsaps College STUDENTS EARN MONEY Folk-singers Wanted, singles or groups, non-union Write to: FOLKSONGS 302 Delaware Ave. Albany, N. Y. •'l Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian • American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking 01 6-9554 1 115 Barrett St. W f T ¥ ¥ ¥ T Y Y Y T' T Y .,.'T' f T f ¥ T ~~..,..'f\'\TT T T T 'T 'T T t T T 'T t T ... - V ¥¥- the traditional Tennis Sweater White and Blue DAVIE'S ~quir~ ~llop ··.,. ''I .Friday, \ Ne Plans call all'oi·ded b I ':; (Cont • \• plans sho· man suite bedrooms lounge. Each bt • (•men. The type of c will be p the ropm -~ at right a order to feeling of el's. SuPJ t ~·bed will draws, an found und The be <iesk, fa< • u quiet stud mate will lounge ar' sible for 1 ,, .., out in terf :;leeping. uring 10 two closet 0 0 measurin~ · ruom for : the wholt:l. ~~~ch stud· area than ' <' turies. The pia other util end of th1 G t\' be SUl'l'O! suites. T: ridors wil ent layou I) ,. same type · will have stretrhing floor to 1 \dll be al (I i 'Jt'he ino .ding tc ·para ted tJl'S. A carpet lt.:nces as The walls .. l li'cinder blo ing to i1 absorptior are desigl .1o ll possil>le s dent Da' that the \1·ecogniza privacy a i (lonment 2 comes in, and other study.\ ' •· The prt tu solve t fraternity vidual ne , which wil: ent sectio by frater: to providt tuation in ·)' the frate1 eliminate date inde nity secti- 11 \ In addi study faci expected tial atmos 1 • fJ Riclunond with this 11 ... t,, (t J} • FRA Whc Twic~ a 1231 ScJ a

13, 1964 r 'Shoot' .m. 7:30 Medical Dean ' p.m. 7:30 Room, Syn- 30 p.m., :30 p.m. and 1: art- anrl oldies ... re- tu to advunc- in re- bv the Miilsaps n •'l' ,, . •' TTY¥¥- .. . . . . l .Friday, November 13, ·1964 5 I Conference • • States . • • /Mount Saint Joseph College, Sis- El • 1 ter Mary Lawrence, President eCtJOflS • e • New Dortns • • • ----. I '; Plans call for three room suites in the new dorms. The p1•ivacy aiJoi·ded by this plan is obvious in the above illustration. (Continued from Page 1) introduction of a modern open • \• plans show a total of 119 four- stairc;:~se leading from the first man suites, each containing two floor lounges to the second floor bedrooms and one study room or as a substitute for the familiar lounge. fire door exits. Each bedroom will house two l\lodern Viewpoint • ,. men. They will sleep on a unique The at·chitectural }Jattern of type of double deck bed which the new halls will stress a more \dll be placed in the corner of modern viewpoint, whi.Je still the ropm with the individual beds paying special attention to the ~ at right angles to one another in traditional Ramee design. The order to eliminate the cramped same outer mate1·ials used in the feeling of ordinary double deck- other campus buildings will be e1·s. Supporting one end of each used again. There will be gray t t• bed will be a series of dresser ~tucco walls and white arches as draws, and drawers will also be m the other campus construe- found under the lower bed. tions, but in the new buildings, The bedroom will have one I the m·ches will be suppressed. tiesk, facilitating private and Thu.s, the new buildings will not • 10 quiet studying. The other room- be 1mages of the past, but will mate will have his desk in the cl~arly indicate the continuity of lounge area thus making it pos- the new with the old. sible for on~ man to study with- T~ree fraternities ure bPing ., .., out interferinO' with the other's cons1dered for the move into the ::;leeping. Ea~h bedroom, meas- new facilit!es. They are Kappa uring 10 x 13~~ feet will have Alpha, Ph1 Gamma Delta and two clo~ets as well. The lounge, Beta Theta Pi. • . . 0 0 measurmg 50 x 20 feet will have T)1~se new butld111gs . are f1_nal . ruO!ll for additional furniture. Qui ?-dd!h01 1 S lo the extensn•e bUlld- lh~ wholt:l, this arrang~ment gives mg }Jrog_ram that .has been undt>r- I e~1ch student thirty percent more way durmg the nmeteen years of area than the traditional clormi- President Davidson's administra- t <' turies. tion. The predous projects in- The plans place bathroom and eluded West Col'ege, Richmond other utilities in a core at eithe1· House. Raymond House, Potter end of the two \'dngs. They will Hou::e, Memorial Field House and , l<' be surrounded by \L\ shaped Schaffer Library. suites. The suites along the cor- ridors will have a slightly differ- eilt layout, but will afford the ~ ,. same type of facilities. Each room · will have a long casement window stretching from a foot off the floor to near the ceiling, which \dll be about nine feet high. (I ' i Study Rooms 'Vhe individual bedrooms, ac- . ding to the present plans, are ·pamted from the lounges by urs. An attempt will be made carpet as much of the resi- tl.;nces as is financially feasible. The walls will be eonstructed of l ~'cinder block with a plaster roat- ing· to insure maximum sound absorption. All these measures m·e designed to provide the best .11 ll possible study conditions. Presi- dent Davidson has emphasized that the new accommodations \J'ecogni~e the student's need for \privacy and flexibility of envir- i onment as he inct·easingly be- comes involved in honot·s work and other forms of independent study.\ ' •· The progtam is also expected tu solve the problem of adapting I fraternity housing to their indi- ddual needs. The fire doors • (l which will senarate the independ- ent sections 'from those occupied by fraternities will be moveable to provide a possibility for fluc- tuation in the numbers living in ·)' the fraternity house. This will eliminate the need to accommo- date independents in the frater- nity sections. 11 11 In addition to providing better study facilities, the new halls are expected to give a more residen- tial atmosphere than, for example, I) fJ Richmond House. One innovation with this end in mind was the 11 ... t,, (I Jl • ... • .FRANK FERRARO Wholesale and Retail fruits and Produce - Fresh Daily - Twice Daily on Campus 1231 CRANE STREET Schenectady, N. Y. a 0 0 01 6-1763 ... -- . ..,....,. UNION INN 517 Union St. Bave taom S8YB a SliGB ror goul Can't get home for the birthday in your family? Then telephone your best birthday wishes. A phone call makes all the differ- ence ... and it's the next· best thing to being there! Iii\ New York Telephone 'eJ Part of tllo Nationwido BoH Syotom (Continued from Page 1) room at nig-ht much more favor- able than under the old style dor- mitory Bystem. - ~..J'otre Dame College of Staten Is- (Continued .from Page 1) land, Mother Saint Rita Marie, (Continud from Page 1) l\\'een the two b1·anches. The Dean of the College student council representatives is gene1·al freedom of inquiry and St. Joseph's College for Women, designed that students interested uction that the professo1·, both as Sister John Baptist, Academic in student government hut not Increased Com.f.ort an individual ~md as a member Dean. Cain emphasized the increased of a group, has also quite in- The g1·oup was accompanied by elected one of the four elass offi- eomfort in the suite system. trigued them. Also of special Finla Ct·awford, Vice-Chancellor cers retain the opportunity to run \There will be at least thirty per interest were matters such as the of Syracuse University. for student council. A pl'imary c:ent more ruom .pel' student,\ he honor::; prugram, independent The Middle States Association election was held after the class said. In addition floor covering ::;turly, and credit by examination was founded in 1914 to maintain officer election, to narl'O\\' down will be provided ewryhere that mt(l advanced placement. academic standards. Union was a I the nl:lmber of candidates to eight. il is practical. The wa Is of each ~hart~r me!nber. One of H~ main The final choice last night en- room will be blo:oked and cuve1·ed From Tl\'elve Colleges functwns 1.s .the . accredatwn ~f 1 tailed picking five of the eight \dth plaster. \This is 1lesigned Th~ pet>ple who came represent schools , W!thm. lt~ geograpluc · primary winners to l'epresent for the comfurt of the students,'' 1 t\\'t>lve schools· fout• small liberal boundar!es, whlch mcludes N ~w the class in the Student Council. Cain said. \The .blocked w_all arts colleges. f'our state ~olleges, York, New Jersey, Pennsylvama, plast.e r.ed type .c;f l'()O.·lll sepa.ratlunl arHl four Catholic women's col- M ary!and, Delaware, District of Results of the election: Mac- has shown to be the best as far leg-es. The twelve schuols and Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the Donald, 207; Dawsen, :J!88; Walk- as sound p1'oo_fing is concerne.d.\ their representatives are: Panama Canal Zone. At present er, 174; Winner, HiD; Corrigan, ~he ~'ODlll::; wlll .have a mohhr~gl Bloomfield College, Ralph N. it has approximately 400 member 157; Izzo, 117; SusllOW, 97; for hptcl.ure 1 ha 1 ngm 1 g, though. Ca1 1 n . 1 Calkins, Deal! of the College insthitutio1_1s. 1 It is. on': of six 1 Avelrod, 93. emp asiZe( t 1at 1ere, as 111 u I sue regwna orgamzatwns, t 1e -------------- college do1•mitory l'oorns, no nails I Le~anon Valley College, Carl Y. others being New England; South-! will be allowed to !Je dl'iven into 1 Ehrhart, Dean of the College <·rn United States; North Central: the walls themselves. j :Ma1;haltan College, Brother Ab- U.S., the largest group; Western. The first floor of the structure don Lewis, Dean of Arts and U.S.; and Northwestern U.S. I Patronize Our Advertisers will contain the public rooms., Sciences The campus g1·eups consulted con- 1 Wilkes College PennsylvaJlia sidered thi.s the ~o~t favorable I Kutztown Stat~ College, Harvey for three plan. It g1ves a ieeilng at spac- P. Prentiss, Director Division 1 . wusness and ease of entrance, or Arts ami Sciences Generations Cain said. We belieYe this to Salisbury State Colleg·e Earl T. • • • bE: as important an innovation Willis, Dean of InstrJction as the suite system. ' State University College at On- Those Within Economic Limits eonta, Carey W. Brush, Direc- tor of Liberal Studies Who K The dormitory will be designed Sf ur · · C 11 n 1 now · to afford comfort ;vithin the lim- • .ate 'mvers!ty 0 ege at .1 atts- burgh, Geot·g·e Ward Angell, Hove been its of sound economic planning. President 1 In res~onse to ~tudent opinion Ct>llt!ge of Mount Saint Vincent,· recommending - the stmrwaY: leadmg to the se~- Sister Mary David President · ond story w1ll not be enclosed ml ' I HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER fireproof brick or tile with a fire- 'I . .. I cl~or at. each entl·ance. Instead it anti rec_;reat~on~l. act1y1ty. They 1 will sp1ral up in an attractive I emphasize mdivldual!ty for the pattern tu a firedoor inconspic- student and flexibility in the I uously s.ituated high on the stairs. building. I Mauriue B. Granbart & Sons In Cain's opinion the dormi-' Preference and r~tes for the I lories Unio11 is planning will give independent sections of the clor- their inhabitants the maximum mitories has not yet been deter- comfort the college can practi- mined. It is planned that two cally build into Jiving facilities ft·aternities occupy part of the designerl for sleeping, studying, new stl\uctures. '\3 Vnion Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. i=OR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY Ready? Go! Color that Rocket action V-8 400-cubic-inches big ••. and 345-horses eager! Color the four-barrel carb neat, the twin pipes sweet! Now we're moving with heavy-duty springs and rear stabilizers (color the curves flat) and four coil springs (color the bumps gone). There are three spirited transmissions available: color Jetaway automatic easy, the four-on-the-floor jun, the three- speed synchromesh smooth! We've already colored the tires with a slim red line. Nice joh. Wouldn't the 4-4-2 make a pretty picture ... with you at the wheel? Watch for the action-pocked 4-4-2 ••• at your Oldsmobile Quality Ooaler's soon! The Rocket Action Car!

MC)YIE REVIEW Pctge 2 Concordy Sports FACULTY 'COLUMN Page 3 ,, t ;. f ~ Co1nputer Picks Ha~nilton, 18-14; Dutch Classic . Bowling League c: Time Out: Wrong Is Organized ,· Garnet Set To Prove It Progress Is Our • • • VOL. 9l By Ricky Resch By Howard A..Golc:lberg Union College's football team travels to Clillton, New York tomorrow b compete as an underdog in its final game of the )'ear- against Hamilton College. '!L'bis series started in 1890 and is one of· the oldest rivalr-ies in the country. The Garnet will be trying to even tlie series at 29 victories a:J:>iece with 11 games having ended in ties. The Dutchmen \Vill also be trying to even tlleir record at 3 victories, 3 losses, and a tie. Hamilton's seas0n mark to date is 3-2-2. Several of Union's bowling ·en- · thusiasts recently met and formed ·L--------~------------_,....... ___ __,;1 the Dutch Classic, a six team N0t since Tom Hoffman and Elmars Jurjevics dominated New league sanctioned by the Ameri- York State erosscountry in the .Jate fifties have Union's faH varsity can Bo;vling Congress. Rolling at teams lost as few as fourteen contests. In 1958 the Gal'llet autumnal •• Boulevard Lanes each Tuesday athletic 1 ,ecot·d was 9-14, even though the football team was winless night at 9:00, the league is open· in its eight game season. to members of all classes. Lead- Matching this dubious distinction will be only one of the goals ers of the Dutch Classic hope to that Head Coach George Flood will be aiming for. In this last fa.U bring intercol:legiate bowling back athletic event Flood will be attempticng- to compile the best Union \' to Union in the near future. Anjr- football record since 1956. Since that year the Dutchmen have been one interested in becoming active unable to attain a .500 season. in Union bowling may either con- It was also in 1956 that Union last defeated Hamilton College. · tact Bob Erianne of 10MSNC, or That victory in the season finale gave L'nion a string of five consecu- '·' see Larry Martin at Delta Chi. live triumphs and a l'ecot·d of G-2. Tomorrow afternoon the Dutch- A note to underclassmen: main-· men will be fighting to e\'en one of the oldest small college rivalries tenanre crf'<iit may be obtained in the t:nited States. In 68 games slnce 1890 t:nion has won 28, lost through participation in the d d 1 29, an tie 11. eague. Accompanying the decline in L'nion's ability to win football \ HamUton's Record Record: :3-:!-~ games since 1956, has been the crossc0untry team's failure to com- 1 plete a winning campaign since 1958. In that year the Garnet Har. . riers won 4 of 6 dual meets and Tom Hoffman finished first in the New York State Collegiate Crosscountry Championships held at \ RPI. Two years befot~e that Captain John Parillo led the runners •• Prin1 Disc J. Doug! topic of \l man Orga Social .Hu. • Convocatio Rrow·n, Princeton .. organizati• · Yalues anc er on feu: collapse o on its .Jea r tion, and its impet1,; It is duuutful that t:Oat:h Fluod will hold anything- back: and there is a great likelil1ood that he'll have quarterback 'ro1n Hitchcok throwing at any t;in1e from any spot ou the field. Flood said, however, that Hitchcock will not JJUSS nearly as often as he did against Williams. Flood gears his offense to each padicular op- ponent. Williams' lin.e was too powerful for the Gar-net to mount ,,ny substantial gr~u:nd attack, but against Hamilton,Ramich and company will allo-w .Hi teh to mix his plays. Williams' defenders close in as Art }Jarshall returns Jllll1t ill ~·ame lost by Union 4B-27. Hamilton 0 Rochester 14 to a 7-1 mark. At that time coach Ketz said \Parillo is the best crosscountry man I ever coached.\ Nee< Grapplers Begin Practice Hitchcock has 90~ y-ards pass- ing thus far and ~lt h a good day against Hamilton ,rould go over the 1,000 yard mark:. Last year Hitchcock combimd with Joe Stevens to pass fo::r 781 yards. Hitchcock will have plenty of pressure put ort hin1 because Hamilton can be '(;!:qpeeted to put on a big rush to tr::y to stop his passing. Hutch, Hurlr.ut ln.jured Senior Brendan Eu tchinson will see only limi!;ed action in his position due to an injury sus- tained in the Hobart game. Hutch has done an outstm1 ding job this year and he \Vill O.e n1issed to- morrow and also nex:t year. Marc Hurlbut is also li1n ping from a pulled leg muscle. '['his injury could affect the strategy that coach Flood will en:1pl oy against Hamilton. Flood. with the ai-<1 of :his pun- ter Hurlbut, usually tries to keep opponents in thei 1' own territory believing that tlle enemy will make u mistalte bdore it can reach the Garnet goal line. Hurl- but has followed o 1·ders to the letter and has kept the Garnet's adversaries in the sl1 ad OIV' of their goal posts by ave:ragi11g 42 yards per kick. Computer Picl<s Hamilton A new wrinkle ha:s been added to this final game of the year. )Jot only will th\€ Du.tchmen be playing the Continenttals, but they will also be playing the !Bl\-1 162C computer, usually- !Jus.:v at wot·k with Electrical EngLneering prob- lems. The computer :has picke<: Hamilton to win b::y ~ score of 18-14. The cotnp~ter, quarter- backed by Professor\ Hoffman of the Electrical E, ng:- ineering De- partment, was f-ed a- pre-game meal of statistics or the previous (i8 games in the Inion-Hamilton series and of each team's first five games this yeat·, three of them against C\on'llmon opponents. The compliter also said that Un- iun's offense \Vill net 184 yards und Hamilton's 2 (,3_ Union will have to gain 137 :,-~m·ds to earn a score against tlamilton, but Hamilton will sco:re for e-very 137 yards it gains. The computer also used the fart that Hamilton will be thf' By Gary VanGraafeiland The varsity wrestling squad will need stellar performances from inexperieneerl men to secure a winning record this season. With most of last year's starters gone, coach Allison has but three wrestlers, seniors Dale Schneider, Jerry Anderson, and Rick Engles, who have pt·oven themselves to be capable of winning in varsity competition. Schneider, a regular last season in the 157 lb. class, s~ored victories over opponents from Williams, Hobart, and Ro- chester. Anderson, in the 130 lb. class, defeated wrestlers from Rochester and Alfred. Engles, captain of this year's squad, stopped men from Williams, Ro- chester, Hartwick, Hobart, and Alfred, while competing in the 177 lb. class. These three will have to win most of their matches if the inexperienced squad is to improve on last year's 3-6 record. Union Statistics The following staistics, which are rarely publicized, point out some of Union's strengths and weaknesses after six football games. Note Union's lead over its opponents in first downs pick- ed up by passing and the number of penalties called against the Garnet. From the cumulative score by periods note that lJnion for the first time in about five yeat·s is a team that gains mo- mentum during the game. Cumulative score by periods: lJnion ........ 14 16 34 40-104 Opposition .. 19 28 25 34-106 Miscellaneous: llnion 36 First downs, rushing 39 First downs, passing 10 First downs, penalties 85 First downs, total 22 Penalties against t80 Yards penalized 13 Fumbles 8 Fumbles lost Opp. 54 25 5 84 41 390 18 7 '1ome team and has an 18-10-6 ·ecord at its Steuben Field. The computer found that \The 1robability of a Hamilton vic- tory is .581. The probability of ~ Union victorv is .330. The prob- bility of a tie is .089.\ The computer added, with an ::1ssist from a less impartial pro- grammer: \I have called this game like Cassius Clay But footballs bounce in a funny way.\ CllRDUROY DUNGAREES Special 2.99 Sizes 28 - 38 CORDUROY SPORT SHIRTS 3.95 EASY T() WASH NO IRON 334 State Street We -wi II be glad to cash your checks Coach Allison remal'ketl that the going coulrl be tough this year, much depending on the number of starters that each op- posing· school has returning. The Echedule is a rugged one, with several formidable opponents, such as Oneonta State. Th~ coach had no pre-season predictions as to the team's final record, declar- ing that it was still too early to tell just what sort of a team he had. He did, however, label the Rochester and Williams rna tches as \musts.\ The tea1n's opener, and perhaps its sternest test, is on December 9th, when powerful Oneonta State visits the Schenec- tady campus. Oneonta defeated the Dutchmen last year :n-5. The remaining contests are with: Wil- liams, Dec. 16, away; Rochester, Jan. 9, away; Hobart, Feb. 10, away; RPI, Feb. 13, away; Hart- wick, Feb. 16, home; Clarkson, Feb. 20, home; Colgate, Feb. 24, home; Alfred, Feb. 27, away. The squad is as follows: 123, 130- Jerry DeMauro 130, 137- Richard Adamson 130, 137- Jerry Anderson 137- John Coutant 147- Michael Bz·ody 147- Douglas Gardner 147- Antho11v Judge 157- David Lead 157- Dale Schneider 157- John Tinker 167- Joseoh Smaldino 167, 177- Richard Engles 177- Gordon Lisker Hwt.- John Werley H wt.- Richard Male Manager Gary By110 n YOUR GIFT HEADQUARTERS Larnbretta AND Vespa MOTOR SCOOTE~S We Have A Complete Stock of Genuine Parts and Accessories MAIL ORDERS PROMPTLY FILLED JAF MOTORS, INC. 1371-73 BROADWAY SCH'DY, N. Y. PHONE EX 3-2621 WEEK DAYS 9-7 - SAT. 9·5 SEE-GEORGE POSNER-ON CAMPUS FR 4·1771 Hamilton 2\2 Hamilton () Hamilton 2G Hamilton G Hamilton 23 Hamilton 8 R PI 0 Hobart 6 Swarthmore 22 Haverford 6 Wesleyan 21 Wagner 41 With coach Flood ready to complete his first season at Union, 11 it appears evident that football is making a comeback and, with the bulk of this year's squad returning, the gri.dders will improve their record next season. Soccer has never been Union's forte .and nothing is likely to change this in the near future. Nineteen fifty-eig-ht was also the last ,, year in which the hooters completed a successful season. Their record was 4-4 as they traveled to Clinton, N. Y. where they defeated Ham- ilton in the final game of -the season. Soccer will improve, however, upon this year's 2-7 record :with \ the addition of an excellent group of freshmen. Thus, it remains in Patronize Our Advertisers the hands of coach Ketz and his crosscountry team to bring Union's fall sports back to winning ways. 965 raduates If yon are inte•·ested in bl,ildi11g your career in a ~olRpany that: Is a growing, progressive one which offers you exceptional opportunities for development and advancement, depending on your own qualifications, ambitions and willingness to work hard to get ahead. t) •• j) t• 11 The soci must atter dices and which lea( 1 this is th what s.pec ed. Thus pr fallacy in Marx and are based the indiv , something constitute! state or ' Marx, thi outlet in 1 (lis more n viduals in fore, it h that can < c rogatives flict with selfishnes: result in , the societ; these con that soci€ individual more and ... Fa In a so accordanc( .. ~ leaders, c• ditions. ' form the J the stand~ c. changed. the chang dduals sc feet, act The moth ·1' to he foUJ ership. The ba: according ~t ity to the or organ act in a v out of ph; (Cor The Society o: dinner me Provides a 2-year On-the-Job Training Program tailored to your talents and desires, with periodic salary increases and challenging and responsible job assignments. t> c;, December The dir series of year and of Sigma Offers competitive salaries with an outstanding benefit program, inc! uding financial aid for advanced studies. Is one of the largest electric, gas and steam utility companies in the world ... pioneering many developments in the power field and serving New York City and adjoining Westchester County ..• ... all in the stimulating environment of exciting New York. See your Placement Officer; get our literature, details on our job openings; and sign up for an interview with our representative. I CAMPUS INTERVIEWS ... NOVEMBER 13 The selection, training, promotion and all other policies of the Company affecting employees are based upon the qualific::ations of the individual, giving equal consideration to all without regard to race, color, creed or national origin. • • • I' :. mediately o'clock, tl by Profe Jr., on \ <'~>man GenE that title tober 19£ This talk , the recen 1 ' · studies o ;;ome of research mosomal \ in the or oned pro the :funct ent whic A tion of a protein.- Four The Sc t• t founded : 1886 to l1 ence and achievem 0 , . , ' In recen1 ter has s a year. four tall be \at a ill· of the E schedule(

,, t f Founded at Union College 1877 ~ VOL. 94 - No. 9 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1964 PRICE 15 CENTS • • New ,Brown Emphasizes SC Tackles Gyneco_logist Applications Down; Role of Le.adership Symposium, T? Dtscuss p. . . U· . · ·d varsity utumnal 01 winless goals last fa.U Princeton Dean ~-~~---;H c· d Btrth Control earson ll\\VOrrte Discusses Values . ODOr Ot · e Record Total By Glenn Holzhauer t Union \' been College. Dutch- rivalries 28, lost football \ to com- Har- in the held at \ runners the best Union, the their to the last record Ham- with in Union's II tl ~' 40 •• j) ,, t• I' •• .. . J. Douglas Brown spoke on the topic of \Humane Values and Hu'- man Organization, A P1·oble.m in Social Humanilie~\ at Tue8(.1a:y's , e Convocation. · Brown, DPan of the Faculty at· Princeton University, stated that · ., organizations depend on ·human · values and that those based eith- er on fear o1· on repression will· collapse or alter in form. It is on its ·leaders that an orga.niza- ' tion, and society, must rely for· its impetus and direction. Need For Objectivity 1 The social scientist, said Brown, must attempt to isolate his preju- dices and measure the factors· which lead to action. Involved in 1 this is the necessity to identify what s.pecific factors are in V()1v- ed. ~Sigma Xi Talk Plann~d The Union chapter of the Society of Sigma Xi will hold a dinner meeting and talk Tuesday, c:. December 1~ at Hale House. The dinner is the second in a series of four planned for this year and is open only to members of Sigma Xi and their wives, Im- :. mediately following, at eight o'clock, there will be an address by Professor Henry M. Butzel, Jr., on \Some Advances in Hu- e;, man Genetics,\ from his paper of that title published in the Oc- tober 1961 issue of The 'forch. This talk is meant to summarize ~ the recent progress made in the studies of human heredity and ;;ome of the directions of future research toward cures of chro- mosomal aberrations. Included ~ i \ in the original article is a reas- oned proof of the definition of the :functi()h of a gene as an ag- ent which determines the posi- on the origin. • A tion of a single amin() acid in a protein.- Four Lectures This Year The Society of Sigma :lCi ·was ' founded at Cornell University in 1886 to honor achievement in sci- ence and engineering; particularly achievements through resea.rcb. ' In recent years the Union chap- ter has scheduled eight addresses a year. However, this yea.l' only four talks, most of which will be \at about the technical level Ill· of the Scientific Ametican\ are scheduled, By Richard Sifton J. DOUGLAS BROWN Reviewed Rod Tulloss examines Kent Kraft, as Edith Norton lool\s on hi. a scene from the Mountebanks' production of \Andorra.\ By Robert S. Hoffman Dr. John Rock, Clinical Pro- fessor Emeritus of Gynecology at Harvanl Medical School and a leading authority on infertility and birth control, will address the F'·reedom Forum Monday, Novem- oer 30th. The audress, which will lJ~; given at Linton High 'School at 8:00 P.M., will be entitled \Control of Factor:> in Population Growth.\ A limited number of free tickets to this lecture may ue ob- ta·ined by Union students at the circulation desk in the library from Mrs. Stanley. :-1 at ural Controls In his recent book, The Time Has Come, Rock states his belief that the Roman Catholic Church, of which he is a member, can ac- cept the use of oral contracep- tives as a method of birth con- trol. Traditionally, the Church has opposed the use of artificial means, including the use of pills, to prevent conception. Rock, how- eYer, maintains that contracep- tives do not operate by unnat- ural means. The pills offer a· natural '\vay of consciously al- lowing the brain to control bodily functions, in much the same way as nature. Thus, they should be accepta·ble to the Church. Private Position Despite wide non-clerical praise, Rock's book has been criticized by leading figures of the Roman Catholic Church in the United States, including Richard Car- dinal Cushing of Boston, for dis- agreeing with Catholic doctrine. Nevertheless, Rock maintains his position on this matter, empha- sizing that his is a personal view, (Continued on Page 5) Philo's Debate At Hamilton On Prostitution Last Friday, three members of the Philomathei:ms travelled to Clinton, New York, to debate the members of the Hamilton Debate Society. A meeting was aiso held, a:ttended by President Frank Rose. Manager Benjamin Wech- slel', Secretary Frank Mauro, and Professor Thimm. Tl1e future of the traditional style <Jf American debating, and its possible replace- ment by the parliamentary style of debate were discussed. lt was the feeling of all those at the meeting that something has to be done to improve the situation here. Becomes Boring The main complaint with the traditional style of debating in this country is that the topic be- comes very boring by the mid- point in the year, and that the debates turn out to be more a ight of statistics and quotations than of wits. It was felt that the parliamentary style of debatmg makes the debaters use their minds more than just their voices. Debate Held After the meeting and a dinner banquet. a debate was held on the resolution: \That this house favors the legalization of pros- titution in the United States.\ Hamilton had what appeared to be the easier side in the affirma- tive, while Union took the nega- tive side. At the conclusion of the debate, a count was made of the members of the audience. The house was slightly in favor of the status quo, or the negative side of the debate. Xew Style Favored \Andorra\ is a very fine play. The most popular of contem- porary Swiss architect-author 1\lax Frisch's works, it was recently given nearly 1000 performances in German-speaking countries during the course of one year. \Andorra as presented by the For both sides, this debate was Union College }louutebanks, who gave their opening performance a new experience. The movement JOi'IIATHAN PEARSON, III Kennedy Honored Dr. Emanuel Carlson, Exeeu- tive Director of the Baptist Joint Committee of Public Affairs, will speak at the vesper service in Memorial Chapel at 7:30, Sun- day, November 22. Carlson intends to speak on brotherhoo(\ relations among the races in his sermon entitled, \To- wal'Cl Christian Fulfillment.\ The speech will commemorate the an- niversary of the death of Presi- dent John Fitzgerald Kennedy. In addition to Carlson's sermon, and a special dedication to Presi- dent Kennedy, the college choir will sing the Benedictus from Haydyn's \Mass in B Minor.\ J()ining the Races Still Expected By A. Laurence Colb The Arlmissinns Committe(' met Friday to review the early decisions fo·r the Union Co'lege cla:>s of 1969. Of the r;:l applica- tions received at that timP, a week after the early decision deadline 23 students have been I accepted for the class of '69, ~!:\ will be consider!'d n~ r£'gular applicants, and 11 haw incom- plete applications. Most of the 23 students are either from cen- tral New York State or Long Is- land. At the same time last year, there were ~~ acceptances for early decision from the 102 who applied. Fewer Applications The Committee, consisting of Professors Kilburn, Abbott, Way, Craig, and Swanker, Deans Lockwood and Pollock, and Di- rector of Admissions Pearson, noted that only 274 regular ap- plications had heen received thus far, compared to 376 received last year. They ascribed this slack- off both to the increased compe- tition from state schools whose costs are much lower, the de- ;creased emphasis on academic recruitment, and the publicity given to the new calendar and its later rejection. Drop Not Severe Pearson stated that the drop in applications was not severe, and it might even be due to the whim of the applicant. He ex- pects more applications than last year by the deadline on February 1st. Although this deadline is a month earlier than last year, because of the size of last year's freshman class, the college pro- posed and will anticipate a class of 325. With this in mind, the Board of Admissions will accept only 650 candidates. which it is hoped will insure a smaller class. The Union College recruitment committee of the Admissions De- Professor Johnson, in his let- partment has visited 171 schools ter of invitation to over eighty since the start of the school year. Chm,ches in the community, out- These visits haYe been mostly lined the major purpose of this in the Northeast and the Middle vesper service as being \to get Atlantic States. Nearly four- Chi·istians of both races to wor- fifths of the visits have been in ship together.\ In conjunction New York State. William Allen with this the professor has urged has penetrated farther west, all the Negro Churches in the into Oklahoma, Colorado, and area to participate. Professor Utah. Joseph Maras will soon Johnson hoped that the service visit Pittsburgh and its vicinity. would be a fitting memory to a The schools which will be visited p,resident who reg.arded civil are determined by those which r1ghts as of_ utmost 1mport::\nce. annually have the most appli- The sernce .Sunday will be ~ants for admission at Union. sponsored by the Union College II The staff tries to visit all schools (Continued on Page 5) (Contmued on Page 5) Webster Scheduled For Dratna Reading By Matthew ,Katz l\1ARGARET WEBSTER I ial Chapel on December 1. She I will appear during the 11 :30 con- vocation. Miss Webster is herself an ac- complished actress. Although born in New York, she was raised in London, and debuted in John 1 Barrymore's \Hamlet\ as the Gentlewoman. She has perform- ed at the Old Vic for many sea- ~?Ons, and has appeared with such famous personalities of the stage as Dame Sybil Thorndike and Sir John Gielgud. She spent a year with the Macdona Players, and performed in 18 of George Bern- ard Shaw's plays during that time. Margaret Webster return€rl to New York in 1937 to direct a nroduction of \Richard II\ with Maurice Evans. She has also di- rected \Hamlet \Twelfth Night\ with Helen Hayes, the Robeson- Margaret Webster, one of the last night, is neither very fine, nor apt to receive the accolades for parliamentary style debates that the original German versi()n secured abroad. It is, however, in this country started late last definitely worth seeing. year, and this debate was the A play ostensibly ab()ut mtti-Semitism in an apparently de- first for Union, and one of the great contemporary directors of 11\oct·atic society, \Andorra\ is not really about racism, but about first for Hamilton. Rose and Shakespearean drama and author prejudice. It. like much of Frisch's drama, is an indictment of the ~t>chsler were the UniO>n debat- of the best-selling \Shakespeare se}f.decepti()n of those who don't introspect, and the superficialty e1 s, and both felt that the par- W. h . , . . of moral convictions founded in self-righteousness. It is, in addition, liatnentary style of debating was I tt out Tears, wtll dehver a Ferrer \Othello the Stratford- on-Avon production of \The Mer- chant of Venice'' and \Measure for Measure\ at the Old Vic. She has toured the country with her own Shakespeare company for two years. Miss Webster has also staged operatic productions (Continued on Page 3) far s.uperior to the traditional dramatic :presentation entitled ~---------------------------...! Amencan style. \His Infinite Variety\ in Memor- (Continued on Page 5)

2 Gobble-Gobble: Turkey Day Hoax By Robert P. Hoff'man Thanksgiving traditionally means turkey, cranberry sauce, and the annual Green Bay Packers-Detroit Lions football game. It's one of those rare· days when everyone is happy and relaxed, too bloated with good food to feel animosity towards anyo~e, too de~ac,hed from the routines of the work-a-day world to ·be renunded of hfe s normal pressures. Course Di'Versity Sought The responsibHity to provide those who will direct the course of the nation with an education in a beoad, not only vocational, sense has long been accepted by Union. It is the opinion of many, however, that we have not lived up to this responsibility and ha.ve Secret History not satisfied its demands in re- Lest the relaxed mood of the impending hiatus from testing, cent years. homework sour hour (sour hour?), lab write-ups, .and term-papers Favors Specialists tmn us ail into cheery fellows with rosy countenances and smiles for The present course structure is everyone, there a1:e u few point~ about our tradit~onal Thanks&\iving at the root of most complaints celebration that ought to be pomted out. There Is a secret history about the quality of education to turkey day that is kept out of the history texts and does not ap- found here. Many faculty mem- pear in the big parades. There are historical truths that. none of us bers and students feel that the are aware of, that are, in fact, not well known even m the. best present curriculum is structured informed circles. It is high time we began to understand the h1dden primarily to t1:1rn out \Specialists essence of Turkey Day. . . . . m nan-ow, restricted fields whose For example, doe's anyone know the ot~gm o~ _the trad1t10nal function in society will be to do Thanksgiving day turkey di,nner? p~es thts tradthonal . ll!eal da~e a job or perform a service, and back to the days of the Pilgrims, or IS 1t of more recent ongm? Js tt thus make a meaningful contrihu- a commercial sales gimmick or is it an example of latent canmbal- tion to the world. Such individ- ism on the part of Nott Schol:;rs? Is. it a par~ o.f a com!Y!unist plot uals, the argument states, can to undermine the chicken farmmg bu:smess, or ts It somethmg deeply never enjoy a full and rewarding rooted in the social-cultural saga of American eating traditions like life since they will be forced to Boston beans, Idaho potatoes, Nebraska corn, kosher salami? become mere parts in a vast ma- chine instead of reasoning and Fine Acting understanding human entities. The real story of the Thanksgiving turkey has been cal·led b_ru- Union's cotu'se requirements tally real earthy and shocking, with especially fine acting by Mtles seek to distribute the attention of Standish 'John Alden and the turkey. (As a matter of fact I believe an undergraduate throughout it was dalled thi:s by a Concordy reviewer.) It is set in Pilgrim modern aca~emic disciJ?lip~s, times. The only pe-ople in America were the P,ilgrims and the. In- thereby ~essemng the. po.~Ibihty dians The Pi.Jgrim's had it pretty good at the time, but the Ind1ans of creatmg narrow mdivtduals. were 'starving. One day the Indians got sick and tired of watching 1 ~ach studen~ must ~ake a total <:f the Pilgrims eat .all. that clam chowder, and baked beans, and roast stx courses m .the mterest of hts beef and codfish. They especially got fed up with watching the Pil- general educatiOn .. There must be grims drink wine, because after drinking wine the Pilgrim's invari- two year co1;1r~~s m each o~ ~he ably went out infidel hunting. With the rare exce-ption of a!!- occa- firs~ three .diVISions ·?f Hum1bes, sional commuter from Long I'sland the Indians were the only mfidels ~octal Studiei:! and Science. TJ:tere around and so it is understandable that the Indians set out to find Is.also a reqmrement of AmeriCan a way 'to drive the Pilgrims away. H1st.ory for ~h.ose ~ho have not · b · · t f •t received trammg m that area Unfortunately, their first attempts at argammg were no rm - h\l tt d' H' h School ful. They began by offering the Pilgrim fathers bve_nty~four d_?llars w ~he ~o~~s~~lfn g 1 !neral are~s do worth of beads in exchange for Cape Cod. The Pllgrtms. rejected not elicit equal motivation for con- this offer, saying they preferred a!l offer of a fu~ure high draft centration from the SJtudent as do choice to a straight cash deal. The Indians came back w1 th another offer , th , . · field Thus to buy the -Gape but granted the PI gr.I;n .at ei's permanen conce~- with the heavy five course load, .1 . f h t 1 e courses m a maJor . , sion rights to Plymouth Rock. The P1lgrtm.s almost accepted th1s the general course is the first to until it was noted that Cape c.od was. ~estmed to become ~ slum be supressed in favor of doing area anyway, and that some Insh fam!ltes w~re already trymg. to the necessary work in more perti- settle along the north coast. The prospect of several large Insh t t d' families liv!ng together in hoyei·s. on the Cap~ meant a pr~bable neMa~/ s~i~tions have been ad- lo-ss of tounst value, and the P1lgnms firmly reJected the offe1. vanced for smoothing out thee ur- Hav-Are-Du for the Indians t'i·culum. It must be emphasized, however, that no proposal has With the bargaining· thus nt a ti\atil~ck the In.dim~s sou~ht an- been adopted as yet. Among the lither means to rid themselves of the1r tiresome PJ!gr1m ne1ghbors. faculty, there is a concensus that One bright Indian had an idea. His nam~ was Hav-Are-Du .. He some reevaluation of the present suggested a giant b()at race on the CharlC'\!< R1ver ,behv~el! !he lnd1~ns system is now essential, but there and the Pilgrims the prize to be a full years provtstons-wme, is no guarantee that the sugges- beans clam chowder, the works. Surely, it was thought, the small tions of the Curricular Affairs band ~f Pilgrims could not afford to give up one wh<?le year's worth Committee will be adopted, or of provisions. The Indians figured they were a s~oo:m, as Hav-Ar~- that any change will be instituted Du was the be'st rower in Massachusetts. The Ptlgnms thought th1s at all. idea great fun, and were not unattracted by the _Prospe~t of winning Major Challenge some of the famous Indian corn to go along w1th thell' roast beef. In general, though, it is felt And of course they counted on Miles Standish or John Alden to be that the task of educating a sci- equa:l to any r'owers the heathens might put up. entist in the ways of the world Once the race got under way it was apparent that form would of the liberal arts, and visa versa hold up - either the powerful. Hav-Are-Du or the. persistent J9hn !s a m~jor chall~nge t? modern Alden or stealthy Miles Standish would .be the wm1_1er. Roundmg mstructio~s: .Durmg a. time ;.vhen the last turn on the Charles River .the Indian had a sl1ght lead when the capab~h:tJes of science mflu- he was unceremoniously bumped m the rear by John· Alden. The 1 ence so critJcally .those who !I:ust Pilgrim meekly excused himself but Hav-Are-Du demanded a com- lead the economic and pohttcal plete apology before he would continue. He rose to confront Alden. communities, mutual undetstand- The Indians watching the race from the shore sen~ed a battle in the i~g is a VItal commodity. ~he offing. They began chanting encouragement. \Fight fierce!~ Ha-y- birthplace of such understandmg Are-Du fight fiercely Hav-Are-Du\ they called. But the Indtan d1d can only be found on our cam- not fight. He stood at attention waiting for an ai?ology. Jo.hn Alden .:::P..::U..::s.:..es_._~---------­ sat in his boat waiting to get clobbered. And Miles Standish snuck past them both and won the race. Stragliest, Slowest, Stupidest Beast As a result of Hav-Are-Du's vanity the Indians were now forced to give up a year's worth of provisions. All year long they were forced to serve the Pilgrims. But the. Indian~ dr? not. venture out into the forest just to hunt food for their fat Ptlgnm neighbors. The long New England winter was much too cold for that. Instead every other morning the Indian squaws ventured out to the edge of the forest where a few decaying grains of corn meal!:!' w:ere scattered. With tomahawk in hand the squaws hunted the Wildlife that came to feed there. And invariably what was tomahawl_red and pre~ented to the Pilgrims was the stragliest, slowest, studp1dest beast m the entire New England woods, the American wild turkey. But the Pil- grims, never ones to look a gift turkey in the gullet, :held a Thanks- ( Continued on Page 4) MIDTOWN BARBER SHOP 515 UNION STREET (Next to Union Inn) Speciolizing in RESTYLING OF HAIRDOS Each head is given personal Care Down to Louis', let us go, Let the lager freely flow. DIAMANTE~s- Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate o,n Nott St. Open Daily 1 0 to 3 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. - 3 A.M. -----~,, A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR A.-8917 Let Us Be Your Host For That Special Occasion The Finest Service Year Round (Restaurant adjoining) Student Rates BALLSTON LAKE MOTEL Route 50 857 Saratoga Rd. Ballston Lake, N. Y. Phone: EX 9-5193 for reservations RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES BAR SUPPLIES POLYETHHENE CELLOPHANJ: DRUG SUNDRIES NOTIONS NOVELTIES RENTALSz GLASSWARE DISHES SILVERWARE DACY PAPER CO. Successor to ,J. NOGEE & SONS, Inc. E•tabllshed 1888 WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS PAPER-PAPER BAGS STATIONERY- SCHOOL SUPPLIES Phone FR 4-4429 28-34 N. Broadway Schanoclady 5, N. Y, Friday, November 20, 1964 Year Abroad: Visit to A Divided City By lVIartilt Jay The cold ~·ain of -the ~ight ~e- :unstable exchange I'~te between 1 Painful Fantasy fore had dwmdled to a hght m1st ·the East.and Wes~ Gelman Marks, The slory should close here, yet as we traversed the hundred yards ! he candtdly ad;mtt~ed that. ~he I must add one ironic postscript between the West Berlin 1J -Bahn! WaH was a d~vtce lor re:stl~auung .o cvmplete my recollection of the stop and Checkpoint Charlie, the t~e embarassmgly large t;um~et· .=vents of that day in April. As cro·ssing point between the Amer- of :vould-~e escapees. Attributmg we passed thl'Ough customs into ican and Soviet zones of the for- . thet~· destre ~o leave. the Demo- west Berlin, we stopped to watch mer capital city of Germany. Nor- era t1c Rep!lbhc to a ~ealous.y for a team of East German workers mally annoye~ at the unpleasant- i the ~aterial. ~rospel'lty ~~ t~e adding a.nother thick~ess to the ness of contmental weather, we 1 Fedei al Repubhc, he ~eveJ thele:;.s Wall. As we stood pmsed on the cu.riously felt nG> rancor at the I CC'n.doned t~e Wall·. as. a tempot.- di.viding line between the two sec- flinty gray skies and biting wind ary expedient .. essential to the tors, a West German soldier ran which greeted us as we passed. eye~t~al ~stabhshment of a .so- up to the grcmp of American of- swiftly through communist cus- CiahstJc Kmgdom of God on eai th. fleers observing the operation toms into the eastern sector. The Eager to Talk from a vantage point just across character of the cities .of eastern the line. Highly excited, he blurt- Europe is t•evealed most fully Before he terminated the tour ed out, \Have you heard? Khrush- when their wide streets, faceless to attend a lectw·e, our volun- chev is dead!\ The news quickly apartment build-ings, rarely busy teer guide contacted several passed through the crowd and we thoroughfares, and <lackluster, friends who were anxious to talk asked to pass on. As we began to monolithic, \StaHnesque\ ·official with English-speaking foreigners. leave I glanced down at my po- architecture are set against the Less enthusiastic about the bene- sitim;: my feet were stradling the gloomy backdrop of an ash-col- fits of life under communism and· thick white line signifying the of- ored sky. East Berlin, in vivid pdssessing a fluent command of. ficial demarcation between the So- contrast with the neon~lit, chrom- English, the three students he in- viet and American seotors. The ium-plated, gaiety of its prosper- traduced to us were remarkably melodramatic absurdity of this ous Siamese twin <to .the west, hospitable in their attitude to- fact provided the perfect touch of seems particularly morose under wards perfect strangers as well fantasy to a day which had seem- such weather conditions. The as eager to discuss the relativ( 2 d too painfully real. thought of some divinely-inspired merits of our system and theirs. · , . . d political \pathetic fallacy\ oper- Taking us from student cafe tc It wasn: ll!lt!l the . next ~ ating in the Soviet sector recon- student cafe insisting on treat- .vhen I fle1' to Hanove1. and pu ·. h · · t . f h b '·' b 'hased a New York Times that c!led us to ~ e ai!pl opna eness o ing us to t e super verman eet h Kh . h h d th hoax was the othel'W!se miserable weather Berliners consume in prodig iou. · e 1 us c ev . ea . limax prevailing during our entire twelve quantity, our hosts painted z .\evealed. Talk about anti-c · hour stay in east Berlin. vivid pictUI·e of life in commun- ist Germany. Pl Communist Guide Intermingled with resentmen't Forum ans Discussion At Skidmore ,friday, No To sor i has had o chance to ~ him from· • €responsibi1 partly of l of histOI'Y· tinued to : I); tvigor, whi admired, ~ · appreCiatic : to change a-1., The s ~ loss which I the earth his person • tstore th.e obligatiom ship whicl: but it is t . now ha:s :b· • c This changes 0': ; was made •' 1 nedy, 1vho · man elect ';hat youn: .hip. The · •lection oJ Swiftly getting our fill of the at Russian dominance and hatrea ·standard points of interest of f·or the oppressive regime of Wal- what was central Berlin before ter Ulbricht were notes of pride the war (mostly the bombed out at the social eq11ality under com- shells of former Pruss~an gov- munism and alarm at the alleged ernmental buildings left standing resurgenee of Nazi control in by the Russians as a spiteful re- West Germany. Dismayed at the minder of the Nazi defeat), we harsh restrictions on freedom of decided to enter Humboldt Uni- speech a111d press under Ulbrecht, versity on Unter den Linden in they were nevertheless quick to the hope of meeting east German praise the greater opportunity in students. My companion, an Aus- East Germany for worker's chil- tralian ·student at school with me dren to attend university in com- in London, had sufficient com- parison with their West German mand of German to interpret the counterpru·ts. The disparity in ec- remarks of the student who vol- onomic prosperity between the unteered to show us his univer- two Germanies they explained by sity. Displaying a lapel pin in- reference to differences in Amer- tiicating his membership in the ican generosity and Russian nig- Communist Party, our guide will- gardliness after the war and by ingly agreed to discuss politics the preponderence of natural re- when we broached the subject. sources in the western sector. The organizathmal meeting of \ · t 0f 1965 f~ the Political Forum will be on His frank explanation of the rea- sons for the construction of the Berlin Wall contrasted shal'ply with the justificati·ons offered by Soviet students in eonversation in Moscow earlier that week. While the Russians unanimously insist- ed that the wall was built to keep out western saboteurs and spies and to prevent speculation in the 1964 VOLKSWAGEN • Under 2700 miles Used 3 months EX 3-9867 A payday in Europe can help WORK IN EUROPE Grand Duchy of Luxembourg -Every registered student can get a job in Europe through the American Student Information Service, and the first 5000 appli- cants receive $250 travel grants. It is possible to earn $300 a month from a job selection that includes lifeguarding, child care and other resort work, office, sales, ship- board, farm and factory work. Job and travel grant applications and complete details are availa- ble in a 36-page illustrated book- let which students may o:btain by sending $2 (for the booklet and airmail postage) to Dept, N, ASIS, 22 Ave. deJa Liberte, L·ux- embourg City, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, J.v.londay, November 22, at 4:30 P.M. in Bailey Hall 307. The Forum, compdsed of Young Dem- t ocrats, Young Republicans, and uncommitted members, functions In G ~r populadt> take, thar vigorous tempts to as the only organization on cam- pus where the unc.oml\!litted. ~tu­ dent is given a ,.o1ce m political discussions. For the past 4 yea1·s, the Forum has been inactive in this respect. fl. t: tet·s, th.e i tions retu there was · electorate Thts year Professor Underwood has agreed to advise the Forum with the express purpose of revit- talizing political thought on cam- pus, through outside speakers and mock debates. • • • Even Entertainment Scarce \Kennedy hind the l dissatisfa As student clubs at the univer- sity, meeting only twice a week, were closed that night, out hosts were at a loss for suggestions for entertainment in the evening; communist cities are not known f{)r the extent of their night life. At ten o'clock, they accompanied us as close to the Wall as they were permitted to go. After pro- fuse thanks and pt·omises to send one a certain tobacco brand he was unable to obtain in East Ber- lin, we \valked through the 'suc- cession of wooden barriers, barbed wire, and hastily cemented cinder blocks composing the bitter monu- ment to the division between east and west. By virtue of an Ameri- can passport I was able in five minutes to do what our newly- made friends eould do only at the risk of their lives; it seems no Je·ss absurd now than it did at what, at the risk of sounding sen- timental, was the most poignant moment of my European stay. All students interested in gov- ernment and politics are urged to attend this meeting, where the of- ficers of the Young Democrats and the Young Republican's as well as the officers of the Forum will be ele·cted. • ,., leaders-hi! brought a affair ine the more ponents ~.; • ... tions wh: • Above all, the main emphasis of the meeting will be on the direc- tion the Forum will take in the coming months. One possibility is 1 forming a liaison with Skidmore. The political group there, also non-partisan, has expressed inter- est in rombining in joint activi- ties. Another pos-sibility is a de- ' bate between spokesmen for con- ' ~ervatives and liberals, perhaps · William Buckley and Stevenson or Pastore. Patronize Our Advertisers 'f'Tf'f'TYTYTYTT'f'T'ftf¥tttttftffT'r\'t\\\\rtTtffiTttY9tVt'f' DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages For three Generations • Those Who Know. Have been recommending 118- 120 JAY STREET •• HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Manriue B. Granbart & Sons ·\3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY .. Kennedy relations willing- to For 1 have beeJ _.date was the vote Jo-hnson c who was cans in 1~ implemen campaign obligator: what he , himself t F. Kenne vo-ters, w built on 1 l' Pt·esi passed 01 his admi: or myth, ( .. time- 2

DAMAGED PAG.E(S) 20, 1964 Jay here, ;~ret postscript of the April. As into ed to watch workers to the on the two sec- soldier ran of- operation just across he blurt- ? Khrush- quickly and we began to at my po- the the of- the So- The of this touch of had seem- next day and pur- Times that hoax was Friday, November 20, .1964 ....... -, ... - ·:---.. ... Faculty coii.lm:~: ·· Ann·o Kennedeii By Prof. Manfred Jonas The year that has passed since the assassination of P:te'sident Kennedy has been, by any standard, one of the most eventful in the political history of ·our time. The senseless tragedy which occured m Dallas on November 22, 1963 is ·still fresh in our minds, and the surrounding the events of that day has been only partly stilled by · recent publication of the Warren Report. But already many o:f those with whom Kennedy shared the burdens of world leadership :-: Home of Great Britain, Adenauer of Germany, and, .most surprrsmgly of al'l, Khrushchev of the Soviet Union - have displaced, and Lyndon .Johnson has been confirmed as President by an election landslide of historic proportions. Saved From Overexposur.e To some extent these developmellits l'efleCt the impact Kennedy has had ·on our times. If his untimely death robbed him of the cl.1ance to achieve ~he goals he articulated ·so eloquently, it also saved hm1. from the pallmg effect of overexposure and relieved him of the • Cresponsibi'iity for possible failure. It permitted an image composed partly of fact and partly of legend, to live on to affect 'the course of history. To America and to the world, John ·F. Kennedy has con- ti?ued to .symbolize youth, .in, i~s bes.t and ri:1i>st appealing sense, a ., tVlgor, whtch for all the wJttJcisms 1t called forth was universally admired, a high degree of intelligence and understanding, and an appreCiation of the highest values of our civilization, which helped , to change America's image, at least in Eul'Opean eyes. ,.~.~ The spontaneous and whoHy gen:uine expre~sions of grief and , loss which the assassination produced in virtually every corner of the earth revealed the extent to which Kennedy, as much through his personality as through his accomplishments, had been able to re- • , ,store the waning faith in America's ability to meet its world-wide obligations. The remarkably rapid and smooth transition in leader- ship which President Johnson was able to effect preset'Ved this faith but it is the Kennedy heritage, not the Johnson image, which up t~ . now ha:s :buttressed America's position in world affairs. · • c This Kennedy heritage played a patt in the governmen.tal changes of the past year. The semi-retirement of Konrad Adenauer was made more probable by the attractiveness of the youthful Ken- • nedy, 1vho seemed to counteract a conviction long held by. the Ger- man electorate, that age is a necessary ingredient of wisdom and ';hat younger men should not aspire to positions. of natio,nal leader- .hip. The youth of Willy Brandt was ·still a negative factor in the meeting of \ be on ·•lection of 1961. It will pro-bably affect his chances in the elections t 0f 1965 favorably. Conservatives Lose 2, at 4:30 307. The oung Dem- • and , functions on cam- stu- in political 4 years, inactive in In Great Britain, the Conservative government declined in It popularity less because of the specific actions it took or failed to t~ke, than because it. seemed old and ~ired when c~mpared to the vigorous New Frontiersmen of Wa·shmgton. Des:p1te several at- tempts to rejuvenate the cabinet, including a change of prime minis- t: t~t·s, the unfavorable image persisted. As a result, the recent elec- tions returned to power a Labour Party for whose specific programs there was no overwhelming enthusiasm, but which held out to the • • • - • r • •l\r•... • .,_ ... L.........,_,~,_- . ...,.-,.....,,_,~-- ... -- .. ' -~~.,...~·--·• .,.. . ....,. ••• -· • Mounteo_anks • • • _ Brother and step sister in torturous relatioJ;tship. Left to right, Kent Kraft, Casey Wolfe, Edith Norton. (Continued from Page 1) rupted in its very core. It is a an assault on the prevalent prac~· society that commits sins of tice of categorizing people, .of omission, that does not admit putting them into boxes and its own failings and that does thereby caricaturing ·them, which not defend any of its vaunted val- is characteristic of modern soci- ues or demonstrate any of its ety where man does not have the pretended virtues. time to get to know others as in- Frisch is concerned wLth the dividuals. intellectual problems posed by Specifically, \Andorra\ takes man's existence in a modern, al- .place in a small, .poor country most existential universe where wlH>se name gives the <title to the God is uncertain, if not dead. He play. It is the story of the bas- is a didactic playwright interest- ta~·d son of an Andorran teacher ed in teaching· and questioning and a woman who Jives in the values as well as is presenting land of a hostile neighbor, known powerful drama. significently as the Blacks. The The Mountebanks, who evi- teacher, in order to conceal his dently did not have enough time af:Eair with the Black woman, to prepare the play adequately, tells his son, Andri, and the An- and who had the problems of dorrans that Andri is a Jew whom theater-in-the-round to overcome, he has rescued from the oo- manage, despite inexperienced toriously anti - Semitic Blacks. and sloppy acting, to create force- Brought up in a society which ful drama out of Frisch's insights considers itself \white\ and un- into philosophical problems. They biased, and surrounded by people do not, however, produce the sus- who believe him to be a Jew, tained tension or achieve the tre- Andri becomes inc 1 ·easingly aware mendous power which are inher- of the prejudice stemming from ent in the play. Under\\'OOd the Forum se o·f revi t- ht on cam- and preconceived notions about Jews \Andorra although it is es- which his adopted countrymen sentially a play of ideas, relies • , t Even the ouster of Nikita Khrushchev reveals traces of the, nurture. He gropes for the rea- for many of its dramatic effects \K d ff \ 1 · 'II son behind their condescending on concrete details which the the- electorate the promise of more dynamic leadership. in gov- urged to the of- Democrats as the Forum enne y e ect. t 1s st1 too early to assess fully the reasons be- h d 'd hind the changes in the Kremlin. But there is small doubt, that the patronage, for the characteristics ater-in-t e-roun cannot provl e. dissatisfaction of the younger party functionaries with the \old\ that distinguish him from the For instance, the directions call t . ., leaders-hip played a conspicuous role. High on the list of charges people who won't let him live the for a town square surrounded by brought against Khrushchev was that he handled the Cuban missile life of an Andorran. He even buildings with blank white walls, affair ineptly, that, in other words, he had been outmaneuvered by lashes out at several of his tor- one of which is being whitewashed the rnore alert and vigorous Kennedy, Nor were Khrushchev's op- mentors, but finally accepts their ai the outset of the play. The poJJents unaware of the fact that the crisis in Soviet-American rela- ·abel and the derogatory associ- white walls provide a symbol of • ... tions which fQllowed the U-2 incident had been overcome when ations which it carries. When superficial purity, a background • · Kennedy replaced Eisenhower. Perhaps the cdsis in Sino-Soviet his father, who sees what :the against which the corrupt actions relations might be overcome by replacing Khrushchev with someone seeiety is doing to Andri, and of the Andor~ans take place and willing to take a leaf from the Kennedy book. who fears the coming of the Jew- are highlighted. The directions hating Blacks, tells Andri that he also call for a blue sky and, at .. Goldwater Unacceptable is not a Jew, Andri does not be- one point, a closed room into of the direc- For the otucome of the American elections, many explanatim1JS lieve him. He has become a Jew which a soldier enters in order by conviction. In the end,. Andri to rape Andri's sister-lover. is sacrificed by the \virtuous\ W;:1lls, sky and .room are impos- Andorrans who, reassured that sible in the Nott Theatre. As a no harm will come to them if they mabter 0f fact, .the dearth of the obey the orders of the one-de- scenery permitted by the theater spised Blacks, do not protest his contributes to making the plhy fate. In scenes which take place vague by necessitating the ab- chronologically afte1• the action sence of objects, like a jukebox, of the plot, but which are iruter- the square, and the shutters on jected between the scenes which the houses, which are 1•efe.rred provide the logical sequence of to or used by several characters. action, the Andorrans, isolated in Those who have not read the play ake in the have been offered. Certainly it is cleaz· that the Republican candi- is 1 _.date was unacceptable to major segm~mts of his own party and that Skidmore. the vote represeuts as much an anti-Goldwater landslide as a pro- also Jo-Jmson one. Yet thts should blind no one to the fact that Johnson inter- who was not an acce·ptable presidential candidate for most Amcri~ activi- cans in 1960, had become one in 1964 largely because of his effective is· a de- ' · ·\ implementation of the Kennedy program. When he for con- campaign to the slogan \Let us continue!\ he paid, · · the perhaps obligatory lip-service to Presidents Rocrsevelt rutd But or what he really meant to do - and what he did - vertisers 'f ..... ''f' 1 himself to the electorate as the political heir and F. Kennedy. And he was overwhelmingly accepted vo-ters, who clearly recognized that the \Great Soc built on the \New Frontier.\ '-' Pt·esident Kennedy has been dead for a year. In terms of bills witness box, maintain their in- will be easy prey to the confu- nocence in the face of the over- 'sion created by the ambiguous whelming evidence of their indi- scenery which the Mountebanks vidual and collective guilt. employ. 3 Job Camps: Missing The Point By Alon Jeffrey I read in Sunday's newspaper that the contract had been let for the fil'st Job Corps camp. It is to be built immediately in lJmpquu National Forest in Oregon at a cost of about fo1:1r hundred million doll:ars. But this is not the first camp which will be in operation. In the Catocti-n Mountains of Maryland the first camp will open in January. This camp is using refurbished barracks once used by the Civilian Conservation Corps in the nineteen-thirties. The coincidental link between the new Job Corps program and .he Antipoverty program is, I think, probably indicative of the think- .ng of many persons today. For some reason, certain]~· aided an<i abetted by the nouveau riche, poorness is equated with lack of desire to get ahead. More importantly, there is extant in the nation a general nebulous feeling· that in this land of plenty thet·e is no need to have a war on poverty. Such a feeUng can easily be refuted by pointing out that in Westchester County, one of the three per capita richest counties in the nation, over 8% of the families live in poverty, here defined as an urban family of four with less than $3000 annual income. Studies have indicated that poverty may· be extensive in thP nation as a whole. However, I feel that poverty, demonstrated by mere income figures, is only a symptom of greater ills. It i:'l not a particular individual or family which lives in squalor and can easily rise out of such degradation, it is generations of famili.es. Areas of poverty found everywhere are composed mainly of fatherless fam- ilies, poorly educated wage-earners, and non-whites. Those three factors are the problems to be dealt with, not poverty itself. The Kennedy-Johnson Administration has not seen fit to attack the factors causing poverty. The work camps mentioned earlier did not, in Administration proposals, include education. Young men out in the forests chopping trees and improving forests was thought to be enough to get them on the road to a better life. Noth- ing could be farther from reality. The present program, as amended by Senators Keating and Javits, provides that at least ten hours each week must be spent in classrooms learning trades which can be used in the cities. Steps have been made in the area of education for urban schools, but they are far from adequate. In many cases, the urban sprawls extend across state boundaries and create problems which the state:; cannot alleviate. Provisions for adequate education, vocational and academic, cannot be made by the states and must, therefore, he made by the federal government. Obviously steps are being taken to solve the problem of provid- ing the equal opportunities for non-whites (mainly Negroes). But, the programs proposed by the Administration have not aimed at breaking up the poor ghettos. Urban redevelopment programs have destroyed more living units than they have -created. At the same time, they have created more crowded ghettos, generally of lower quality than tho'se destroyed. The peacemeal programs which are in e::dstence or in planning cannot possibly alleviate the extensive areas of poverty. A complete revision of the citizen's conception of the causes of poverty is in order. This, I think, calls for imaginative proposals by the Admin- istration. The pivotal point in such a program must be a Depart- ment of Urban Affair'S. The creation of such a department will ell- able the government to coordinate the numerous programs in exist- ence. As the con-cept of interrelated problems causing poverty, es- pecially in urban areas, becomes more widespread and better under- stood, the government can move to the creation of more inclusive programs. RITZ RESTAURANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featurinq: HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap ' Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD passed or of specifioc changes implemented, the accomplishment's of his administration were not extraordinary. But, wnether as man or myth, he was a force to be reckoned with in the history of our (\' time - and he continues to be one. Although the Andorrans turn Besides, failing to successfully out to be anti-'Semitic despite negotiate several of the hurdles their protestlJ.tions of inno·cence, presented by its th-eater, the Un- they are not merely anti-Semitic. ion troupe does not provide a con- · They are morally destitute, and sistent performance. Clumsy their society; like Twain's Had- prop handling, especially in a play Patronize our Advertisers ley burg, is at the same time con- of twelve scenes which has no 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES •l ALTER •• to- vinced of its own purity and cor- intermission, often serves to de- ::====::======================================== stray the tensions created by ., ~~~~~~~~~§9~~~~~~~~:.~~~~~~(1A~.'~~~~~~~l oaoh ~~~ J~·~~;:o 4 )to in- 4) OJaiJwnip (J.uA ado~ IIIIMIJ.I IRASER ITAIES OF u.s. • sruiiiiii •riiitvii: TIME CENTER JEWELERS :Jke JJ.oude o/ Ckarmd 428 State Street • College Tours • College Study Programs STUDENT & FACULTY GROUP TOURS Arranged at LOWEST PRICES Books Now open for Christmas and Recess Vacations Schenectady Travel Bureau, Inc. Est. 1930 424 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. PHONE FR 7-8506 Agents For All Leading Airlines- S.S. Companies - Railroods and Car Rental Cos • • • • • • • • TO~IGHT! The GRAND OPENING of a COFFEE HOUSE the CAFE \ENTRE NOUS\ CORNER OF CURRY ROAD AND HAMBURG ST. Phone 355-9888 For those who love folk music and the chance to relax. Come as you are and hear: JANIS LEGERE - DON WHITLOCK - HARRY NUCKOLS THE PARATURNIONS - TOM FISHER - RICHARD VRBANIC MAXINE and BILL For a different kind of evening, 'one you will want to remember, Be At The CAFE ENTRE NOUS For The Opening TONI.GHT - FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20 - No Alcoholic Beverages Sold Or Served - i

4 Qlnnrnr Published Fridays during the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na- tional Advertising Representative: National Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 42V Madison Ave., N. Y. C. Editorial Office. Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, Sche- nectady Printing Company, 5 02 Broadway. Entered in the Sche· nectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. SubscriJJtion 15c a copy: $ K a year delivered anywhere In the United States. LARRY HOROWITZ '65 ................ 346-9895 ...................................... Edltor-ln-ChleJ MARK OBENZINGER '65 ............ DI6-9959 .................................... Business Manager RICHARD ARON '65 ...................... DI6-9848 ...................................... Managing Editor WILLIAM T. WINNE • 34 ...................................................................... Faculty Advisor WhatMightHaveBeen \Of all sad words of tongue or pen, The Saddest are these: 'It might have been!'\ - John Greenleaf Whittier When we mourn for John F. Kennedy we mourn in p-art for ourselves and the good life we envisioned him leading us to. He inspired us with his visions of the kind of world he was striving to achieve. And his graceful, poetic eloquence convinced us that such a world was at- tainable. His contribution was in showing us the wonderful possibilities that the future can hold in store. The tragedy is that he cannot guide us towards the realization of those possibilities. We now have to do it ourselves - and it is much harder that way. Why Union? One of Union's biggest selling points in the past has been the small size of it classes and the low student-fac- u1ty ratio. Many have pointed out that this type of inti- mate education can only be offered at a small college. We submit that small classes are in the minority of current class sizes. In addition Union is approaching the range of a \middle size\ college - too big to offer the intimacy of a small college education and too small to offer the advantages of a big university. Thus its two biggest selling points of the past are gone. Prospective applicants might ask, and quite properly, \why Union?\ And as the college now stands, we don't see how anyone can give a positive answer. Theoretically we are now evaluating our place in education and trying to determine just what type of educa- tion we wish to offer. Dean Lockwood speaks of eventually instituting a great preponderance of seminar type courses, where numbers will be kept down. This is well and good. But on the other hand the administration talks of expand- ing Union - it talks about the pressures being too great on a small college, thus necessitating an increase in enroll- ment from 1200 to 1500 in the day school. To think that this figure will not be increased in the future is foolhardy. How then do we increase our enrollment, maintain a low student-facu1ty ratio and go back to small classes, in our present condition? We have found out in the last few years how difficult it is to replace good faculty members with men of equal stature. Yet if we increase our size we will have to get additional faculty if we are to offer what a small college must offer in order to survive. At present salary levels the prospects of expanding the staff on a worthwhile level are dim. Thus it seems to us that the college is hoping to go in two opposite directions at the same time. We see no place for a \middle sized\ college. The choice is not whether to become big or stay small - we can never be- come big - the choice is rather to become middle sized or stay small. We feel that the answer is obvious. The situation is far from hopeless. It is possible to increase to 1500 students and offer a small college educa- tion. But it cannot and should not be done by putting the cart before the horse. It is foolish to increase the number of students first and then the facu1ty. That way countless years are wasted struggling with an overworked staff (even more overworked than the present one) until the additional members are acquired. If we get the faculty members first, we can go through two years or so in that condition until thes tudent enrollment is increased, with- out any trouble at ali-in fact we would only grain prestige. In light of this we feel that the new dormitories were given undue priority in the list of \what to do with ex- penditures.\ Just think if one half of that was spent on improving present faculty salaries and in acquiring new men ..... Catnpus Calendar Nov. 20-Mountebanks Production, 8:30 p.m. at Nott Memorial. · ANDORRA by Max Friseh. -Two Harpsichords and Instl·umen!~z Memorial Chapel, · 8:30 p.m. Hugh Allen Wilson and william Carragan. · Nov. 21-Mocmtebanks Production, 8:30 p.m., Nott Memorial. Nov. 22-Gommunity Vesper Service, Memorial Chapel, 7:30 p.m. ' Speaker Rev. C. Emanuel Carlson. · · -Mountebanks Production, 8:30 p.m., Nott Memorial. Nov. 23-Political Forum organization and election meeting. Bailey Hall 307, 4:30 p.m. -Mountebanks Production, 8:30p.m., Nott Memorial. :.'-rov. 24-IEEE Graduate School Seminar. EE Library, Rm. 70 at 11 :30 a.m. Profs. Goodheart, Driscoll, and otheTs will be on panel. Nov. 25-Thanksgiving- vacation starts at 12:20 p.m. :.'-rov. 30-Classes resume. TurkeyDayo •• (Continued from Page 2) giving meal to celebrate their tremendous victory and the bounty that had befallen them. So there is one. One stubborn Indian is responsible for the whole turkey day tradition. It's the trues, but it's no wonder it hasn't ever been made .public. be- fore. Bwt this yea.r is no oTdi- nary Thanksgiving. Someone de- cided that some traditions aren't sacred and went out and resched\ uled the Packers-Lions g-ame be- fore Thanksgiving. Well, if the traditional NFL football game isn't sacred, certainly a minor mY'th like the origins of the Thanksgiving holiday can's be sa- cred either. Letters to the Editor To the Editor of Concordiensis: One of the topics under discus- sion during the last few Student Council meetings and at the meet- ing- of the All College Council has been the idea of an Honor Code (It should be noted that the proportion of independents on •this campus is steadily increasing.) at Union. Does an Honor Code have any inherent strength, offer anything to the college, and offer 2. anything to the student body'? I feel that it does have these assets. c. The relatively low faculty salaries, large teaching loads, and crowded class. rooms. Why does the college irutend to house independents and fra- ternity members in the same building'? Such a situa..tion might be obnoxious to both. Each of us was told upon en- tering, that college life has many responsibilities, and now, onee at 3 . Umon, we ean realize our poten- tial to the fullest degree in a ma- ture atmosphere. About a month later we walked into our first hour exam to -see someone peer- ing over us, and not giving- the student the respect, responsibility, and dignity that we thought due 4. us. Consequently we develop only a minimal amount of pride in our college, and this not in an aca- demic field but only in terms of our social prowess. Why does the College seek to relocate contented off-campus students, living in less expen- sive and often more comfort- able dwelling places with facili· ties not offered by College- owned residences? Is the College justified invest- ing six thousand dollars per brother, for the purposes of strengthening the fraternities involved-a sort of discrimina- tion against other fraternities whose facilities may be infer- ior, and ag-ainst all other stu- dents who do not benefit f1·om kitchen facilities and lounges ? Improvements in the facilities of present College dormitories should, we believe, be consid- ered fil'St. An Honor Code deletes the im- personal approach from co~lege life and promotes as a sub'st1tute individual .growth and respect. An Honor Code would be effective be- cause Union students would re- gard it, after a period of time, not only as a tradition, but as part of the conditions for t•emain- ing here at Union. The most important point is that it be an entirely student sponsored affair. If it would be imposed on us by the faculty and administration, no pride would de- velop. If Union students demand this honor and are determined to make this code work, as a result of their social pressures on each other, it will work. None of us are so blind to the fact that there would always be some ·small degree of deception under any code. All sorts of sanc- tions can be applied in these cases, but it is impossible to leg- islate honorability to those who hold Union, themse}ves, and theiL· purpose at college in low e'steem. An Honor Code can evolve out of the shared concern of all the peo- ple connected with lJnion, and their actions, and a consideration of the techniques whereby a num- ber of students protest in a posi- tive way against the causes of deception and fraud. Therefore, the college would de- rive the benefit of student pride; we students would ·be more able to realize our potential in a re- sponlsible, mature, and respectable relationship. John E. Hausmann '66 To the Editor of Concordiensis: We sincerely believe the pro- posed construction of new dormi- tories to be inconsistent with the best interests of Union College. With this in mind we would raise the following questions: 1. Why does the College see fit to inerease enrollment, when, at the present time, the facilities are inadequate for the num- ber now attending? We might note specifically a. The lack of even a single permanent auditorium capa- ble of comfortably seating the entire student bory. b. The lack of proper on- campus social facilities for those students who have re- jected, or have been rejected by, the fraternity system. We also question the disCiimin- atory practice of Union College in allowing to those students liv- ing in college owned fraternities greater personal liberties than those allowed to students living in College owned dormitories. Will this double standard be maintain- ed when fraternity members and independents live in the same buildings? There seems to be a basic con- flict between College practices and College phiLosophies. Accord- ing to the Catalogue, our primary intere·st is in \growth in quality rather than mere size.\ We sincerely concur. Richard Fateman '67 Howard Kaufman '67 Donald Schwartz '67 Stuart Sweet '65 Duluth, Minn.~ (I.P.) - The Depa1tment of Chenrlstry at the College of St. Scholastiea recent- ly announced the opening of a new major, Literature Research Chemistry. It is believed this is the first program of its kind of- fered at the undergraduate level. Several universities and technol- ogical institutes offer graduate degrees or courses in this field. These are largely given through their library schools or cen.ters of Information scienee. The pro- grams are geared to prepare graduates for three types of car- eers: special librarianship, litera- ture analysis, and information system design. Ski Instructors Weekend positions available for skiers to instruct high schoo.l boys and girls. Prior instruction exper- ience not required. Good· compen- sation. Excellent ski facilities. Write or Call: SHAKER VILLAGE SKI GROUP P.O. Box 1149, Pittsfield, Mass. lebanon Springs CN.Y.I 7-1255 Fridoy, November 20, 1964 Mountebanks • • • (Continued from Page 3) te1·1~upt the flow of the drama, in the interest of which an intermis- sion was omitted. Missed cues, flubbed lines and poor coordina- tion between light and sound ef- fects and the action also con- tribute to making the perform- ance ragged. But, l'agged though it is, it gains force as it moves along, and by dint of some scat- tered and some persistent strong acting in the lead roles, gener- ates excitement and saves the play. Particularly noteworthy P.e:rformances are given by Rod- ham Tulloss, who .plays the big- otted, pseudo-patr-iotic doctor- professor without a degree, and Jon Trivers, who plays the inn- keeper. The two adeptly escape the pitfall which Frisch specifi- cally warns against in his direc- tions; they are 110t caricatures b1:1t believable people. Both re- main true to charac:ter through- out, and do justice to their parts. They also provide several of the highpoints of the pel'formance and demonstrate fine control over ge-sture as well as speech. Tul- loss probably does :the most con- vincing job of .all in the scene where he exlO\mines Andri, and he merits special praise. stiff portrayal of Amll·i's second miserable employet• is only really successful in the scene in which he investigates Andri's chair. He handles his cane like a toy, and often reads his lines instead of acting them. Admittedly, both Dicke1·son and Hoffman have the difficult task of heing much old- er than they are, and they are not inadequate. J,oseph Sosnow, as the belligerent soldier, al11o gives a stiff performance, but he succeeds, despi•te an overacted opening-, because his role calls for the obnoxious and brutal be- havior which he unhalting,Jy pro- vides. Similarly, W emer Liepolt s1:1ccessfu:Hy dons the cloth of the clergy, and gives a consistent, in- telligent interpretM;ion as the priest who speaks well but is in- effectual, who is l'ational, but wrong about the <l·ifferences which he imagines distinguish Jew from Gentile. Liepolit man- ages his moveme11ts well, and speaks, one supp()ses 1 the way a priest 'like Father :Benedict would. The Jew Detector, Faruk Kunter, is also good. He does not over- r;lay his role, and succeeds in re- minding us of the .Gestopo better than the Black-clad, well-booted soldiers, several of whom have a tendency to giggle at mistakes. The Idiot and Somebody also ac- quit themselves nobly. From .the preceding account of individual performances one might gather that the play succeeds better than it does. But, though the actors, for the mD'st part, do produce in spurts and thereby guarantee themselves a good word, they do not contribute steadily to bring- out the tremeru- dous power of Frisch's master- piece. The inheTent merits of \Andorra the jux:taposition of self-righteousness and self-delus- Jion, the. ~ever- present ironies whlch constitute ~ts core, make Mr. William Meriwhether's first pro- duction at Union well worth seeing, but do not earn it a place with \The Apple,\ \Pantagleize\ or \For the Repose of Her .Soul\ .. ,, . ( tl l ,_. r Friday, N, The by Dr. 1 new boo special 1 'I' he also J>rO' The SJ)(~cial Non-W NSl!., (. NSF(. Bo Ps· Genera' Unrestri Periodi Serials Bindinf Libran Microti Po stag Bo0ks Uncata In term Unrestri Periodi Americ Math en Heferet Res:-dct4 Boo: Librari Allocat Di Di Di The lead role, if there is one, is that of Andri, who is played more .than adequately, and even, at times, powerfully by Kent Kraft. Though Ki·af.t is a young Andri, and therefore loses some of Andri's force, 'he handles his lines well. While his machina- tions with his cigarette leave some-thing to he desired, his fac- ial expressions are good, when he doesn't overdo them. Casey Wolfe, who plays opposite Andri in the role of his lover-sister Barblin, is good wh.en it counts. She does not faltel' when called upon to display sustruned emo- tion, and helps make her scene with Andri exciting. Edith Nor- ton and Mrs. Bowlin, who por- tray Andri's stepmother and his real mother, respectively, pre- serve the tradition of g-ood act- ing which women from the com- munity have established in the past. Both are Teal women and believable mothers. Mrs. Bowlin gi-ves an especially fine perform- ance, and deserves to be men- tioned with Tulloss and Trivers as one of the play's stars. On the other hand, Robert Dickerson, the father, and Mark Hoffman, the carpenter, do not quite come off as real men. Dickerson is sporadically good, when his lines call for the booming histrionics which he delivers throughout. He is not flexible, especially when he meets Andri in front of Bar- blin's door. Instead of being drunk, lO\nd on the verge of tears, he is strong and loud. Instead of pleading, he lectures. But he is better than Hoffman, whose in the galaxy of Mou11tebanks achievements. The Mountebanks 1 - \\_·il_l_g_o~o-n-s-ta_g_e_a_t_8_:_30--P-.M-. \'.[.· _ every evening throug-h Monday, . November 23rd. YOl.,fR GIFT HEADQUARTERS 428 State St. FR4-0183 Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian • American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar ·. ; PIZZA free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 ~arrett St. Jutte Qftadg START A CAREER IN BANKING BANK EXAMINER AIDES 'SALARY $5,8QQ hnu(l • LIBERAL FRINGE BENEFITS WHILE YOU TRAIN 1--~--0 • PROMOTION OPPORTUNlTIE:S TO OVER $20,000 ... NO EXPERIENCE NEEDED._ Just file your application by Jan. 4, 1965 to start your career July 1, 1965 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION FILL IN COUPON BELOW AND MAIL TO NEW YORK STATE BANKING DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL OFFIGE, 100 CHURCH STREET. NEW YORK, N. Y, 10007 l'p~:: 8 E P,_R_I_N_T----------·- _-- __ ] Address_ II --------------1 ·~=======================~====~-=-~ Or contact Banking Dept. officP.s in Albany, Buffalo. Rochester 'or Syracuse. Di Bro (Cont organizat' qualities • • to furthe society a~ goals, an1 R< • • Thus. t arts colle velop leaci in the gui • taneously, leaders ~ this pale. fore, mus tions, see 1 • in general leadershir: The col . liam W. «• ture in m ' nett, a m1 lege Dep: from 192~ 4:(, was a st Princeton. sored joi: and by th u York, Phl President introducec YTT'Y'YT1 ~) t A A + + + I

20, 1964 second really in which chair. He toy, and instead of both have the much old- they are Sosnow, ldier, al11o but he overacted role calls brutal be- pro- Liepolt of the sistent, in- as the but is in- but distinguish 1 t man- wen, and the way a diet would. Kunter, not over- in re- better om have a mistakes. also ac- account of one might succeeds though st part, do thereby a good contribute tremell!- master- merits of position of self-delus- which make Mr. first pro- worth it a place Her .Soul\ 8:30 P.M. Monday, St. A TRAIN 20,000 AND MENT 10007 r Syracuse. Friday, November 20, 1'964 5 • l .-------------------------------------------------~1 .B~::.,~~.S~~!~ol Webster •••. Student Co~ncil ... and not a Catholic position He · I (Contmued from Page 1) 1 Victor Fazie President of the . : ,,. Library Budget The 1964-65 library budget totaling $66,785 has been released by Dr. Edwin .K. Tolan. The funds which will be earmarked for • • • new books, ]Jeriodicals, binding, and library materials, come from special grants, non-restricted college funds, and endowments. , The new budget provides funds for tbe Graduate Program and • 1 (Contmued from Page 1) I . 1 c ·1 ' continues to support the develop- ent1re student body as a refer-~ ounc1 , c?m~ended the s~udent ment of a nationwide prejeet for of Shakespeare's works for the endum. body _foJ' J,~s mvolvement ~n t_he the study and control of human New York City Opera. She stag-J . 1 plan~mg of the new dormttot·Jes ferti'lity. He believes that this ed Walton's \Troilus and Cres- Garnet QuestiOned lll Ius report., He stated that he type of program is necessary to sicla,\ Verdi's \Macbeth\ and AI . 1 . 1 . • , _ 1 !nts asked Gary Brown to ap- cope with the population explos- Giannini's \The Taming of ,the 80 dlsc!-lsse<' fol owmg ' 1 lC 1 Jn·oarh Professu1· Ketz concern- ion. Shrew.\ She is the first woman po~·t submitted by the . nelyly- 1 ing the idea of starting a golf to stage opera f.' or the \Me.t\ foi me<!. Camp u.s Con:mumc~twns \club. Further consideration is 'Surgeon Discusses having done \Don Carlo\ a~d Com.mittee, .was the 1 .d~a. of fra- lJeing given to the idea of having \A 'd , tern,Ity-clo.mmated actiVIties. In 1 folk entertainment in the Raths- , , also provides for the rebinding of old periodicals. The fundi:! will be allocated as follows: S1u~cial Grants Non-Western Studies ........................................................... $1,000.00 NSl!\' (Account GU372)-Biology and Psychology.......... 2,014.00 NSF (Account GU911)-Replacement of Mis'sing Organ Transplants 1 a. an mterYJew, Dean Pol1ock s~at- kellar after basketball games. Dr. Leslie Rudolf, of the Uni- Miss Webster has been con- e<i that he felt no such domma-f versity of Virginia Medical nected with countless other plavs, tion was apparent. He added : S h 1 including \Family Portrait,\ \The tlmt the ap)Jointment of' editors Ke d c oo, discussed the transplan- 1 ·nne '\\1 tation of lmman organs lllt Tues- Cherry Orchard,\ \Alice in Won- to such publications as Concord-; · J • \ • Books in Mathematics, Economics, and tl l Psychology ...................................................................... 2,000.00 derland,\ \St. John,\ \Back to iensis and the Garnet is made 1 day's meeting of the Pre-Medical 1 (C t\ d f p 1) · Methuselah\ with the Theatre solely on the hasis of past per- , 011 mu rom age : So~:t~~els that the most press- Guild in 1958, and Maurice Evans' f'oi·manl'e and inrliv.idual quaHfi-~ 1 Christian Associ~JJtion and will in- ing problem is the application of \The Aspern Papers.\ In addi- <'ations. The issue arose over the elude prayers and readings which present-day techniques of im- tion Miss Webster founded the number of mistakes that appear-. are acceptable tc all religious o r • r·· t i ....... General Electri<' Grant for the I. A. Program .. ............. . 500.00 Unrestricted College Funds (Account 211 C 4)-Genera! Periodicals .............................................................................. 15,150.00 Serials ..... .. . .... ...... ...... . ............................................ ....... .... 2,000.00 Binding .................................................................................... 9,721.00 Library of Congress Canis and Catalogues...................... 2,350.00 Microfilm ................................................................................ 1,200.00 Postage and Handling· Charg·es .......................................... 50{).00 Books (Sets) .......................................................................... a,ooo.oo Uncatalogued Books .............................................................. :3oo~oo Interlibrary Loan .................................................................. 50.00 Uurestrictfd Colleg·e Funds (Account 211 C 4)-Graduate Program Periodicals ( $2,000.00 included in periodical budget above) American Studies ...... . ... . .......... ............. .... ..... .............. 1,000.00 Mathematics ... ........... .. ...... ....................................... ............... 1,000.00 Heference Sets ... .......................... .... .............. 3,000.00 Res:ricted College Funds (Account 212 C 4)-Endowments for Books Librarian ............................................................................... . Allocations to Departments Division I Art .......................................................................... .. Classics ................................................................... . English .................................................................. .. Modern Languages ............................................... . Music ...................................................................... .. Division II Economics ............................................................. . History American History ......................................... . European History ........................................ .. Far Eastern History ................................... . Latin American History ........................... . Philosophy ............................................................. . Political Science .................................................. .. Religion .................................................................. .. Sociology ............................................................ . Didsion III Biology .................................................................. .. Chen1istry ............................................................... . Geology ................................................................... . Mathematics ........................................................... . Physics .................................................................. .. Psychology ............................................................. . Division IV Civil Engineering ................................................. . Electrical Engineering ........................................ . Mechanical Engineering .... ...... . . . .. .. . ....... .. 10,260.00 500.00 300.00 1,200.00 800.00 300.00 500.00 540.00 500.00 250.00 200.00 400.00 500.00 300.00 400.00 ' 700.00 750.00 400.00 700.00 700.00 500.00 300.00 400.00 600.00 TOTAL ................................................... $66,785.00 Brown. • • 1969 • • • (Continued f1·om Page 1) organization. He must use his qualities and powers as a leader •1• to further the goals of human society as it alters its structure, goals, and behavioral standards. (Continud from Page 1) in the proximity of Union in N e\v York State at least once every th1·ee or four years. Fewer From New York Role of Education • • Thus. the university or liberal arts college has •the duty to de- velop leaders who will abide with- in the guidelines set down. Simul- • taneously, it must itself have leaders who wiU remain within this pale. The university, there- fore, must maintain sound tradi- • • tions, seek new knowledge, and in general enhance \·alues through leadership. The convocation was the Wil- . liam W. Bennett Memorial Lee- «• ture, in memory of Professor Ben- nett, a member of the Union Col- lege Department of Economics from 1927 to 1963. Dean Brown u:, was a student with Bennett at Princeton. The lecture was spon- sored jointly by Union College and by the Alpha Chapter of New u York, Phi .Beta Kappa. Chapter President Benjamin P. Whitaker introduced the speaker. In the future, Mr. Pearson stated, there may have to be a larger enrollment at Union of out-of-state students. This is primarily attributed to the com- petition of the state - supported schools. With all the financial support -that New York State gives its colleges it is proving more difficult for New York students to gain admission at pri- vate colleges. One of the out- standing reasons for this decrease of in-state matriculation at Un- ion may be its lack of adequate financial aid, relative to that ex- tended by other schools. This problem will be resolved by the money supplied by the present 1 fund drive. Patronize Our Advertisers THE ORIGINAL ALPINE LODEN COAT MADE IN WESTERN GERMANY Horn tog.gles and removable hood in Ioden green & wheat 35.95 DAVE'S e;quirr lii,np t. . ~ ...... ~~~ ~~~~.?;;~: :;: ~~:: .. ll munologoy to grafting operations. American Repertory Theatre ed in the recent Garnet. It was· gro1:1ps, in keeping with the As- Rudolf also emphasized the fact with Eva Le Galliene. explained that the editor of the sociation's policy of inter-relig- that the scope of operations in ''Horn in the theatre\ Miss Garnet, who has been a senior in ious community servi_ces. Mem- the United States has been lim- Webster has been invoh:ed with reeent years, . does much of .the hers of the commu~It~ as well ited by the lack of adequate th theatr sine' sh n ade het· work after Jus own g~·aduatwn. as the College are mvited. .. e e . e e 1 1 However, a new publisher has equipment. He expressed his flrst professiOnal appearance at been foun<l for th next issue. view that the transplantation of 12 years o.f age. Her parents 1 e • Storrs, Ccinn. \'- (I.P.)-Under a revamped dormitory program, all freshman males at the Uni- versity of Connecticut will be housed in one integrated section of the main campus, effective this year. Keystone to the experi- mental program will be a new counseling system. orgar.s promises to be as import- were also sta!{e personalities. I William Blumenthal informed ant in the future as antibiotics Miss Webster's father was Ben I the Couneil that Winter Weekend and open-heart surget·y have been Webster, a member of the famous i \\'ill be held February 26. Wrest- in the past. theatre dynasty, and her mother 1 Iing will be the only away-game Rudolf is an alumnus of Union, was stage and sereen star Dame 1 conflict. Letter~ have been sent Class of 1951, and received his May Whitty. She has been in- 1 to a number of agents to obtain medical training at Cornell Uni- volved with every facet of the I entertainment, although the de- versity. theatre. tails are not yet definite. Providing power for every environment ••• provides challenge for virtually every technical talent at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft Being a technically trained man ... we assume you are looking ahead to a career of exciting growth and accomplishment and that you are looking for a com· pany possessing these same qualities. If our assumption is correct, we would like you to take a close look at us. For this Company, while solving the problems of the day, thrives on a sort of creative rest- lessness which anticipates the challenges of tomorrow. And more important to you, it recognizes its engineers and scientists as the master key to its present success and future progress. From a solid foundation of basic and applied research, our Company has gained a firm foothold in the land, sea, air, and space programs that are helping to shape our nation's future. Our engineers and scientists are exploring ever-broadening avenues of energy conversion for every environment. Should you join them, you'll be assigned early responsibility, .. to apply your engineer- ing talents to such areas as advanced gas turbines ... rocket engines ... fuel cells and nuclear power. Such trail-blazing projects command the best of varied talent. That's why you'll find at Pratt & Whitney Air- craft men with college training as diverse as their responsibilities. You will also find that opportunities for professional growth are further enhanced by our corporation-financed Graduate Education Program. Your degree? It can be a B.S., M.S. or Ph.D. in: MECHANICAL • AERONAUTICAL • ELECTRICAL • CHEMICAL and NUCLEAR ENGINEERING • PHYSICS • CHEMISTRY • METALLURGY • CERAMICS • MATHEMATICS • ENGINEER- ING SCIENCE or APPLIED MECHANICS. For further information concerning a career with Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, consult your college placement of- ficer-or-write to Mr. William L. Stoner, Engineering Department, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford 8, Connecticut. SPECIALISTS IN POWER .•. POWER FOR PROPULSION-POWER FOR AUXILIARY SYSTEMS. CURRENT UTILIZATIONS INCLUDE AIRCRAFT, MISSILES, SPACE VEHICLES, MARINE AND IN- DUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS. Pratt & Whitney Aircraft u DIVISION OF UNITED t::iRAFT CORP. CONNECTICUT OPERATIONS EAST HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT FLORIDA OPERATIONS WEST PALM BEACH, FLORIDA An Equal Opportunity Employer

KENNEDY SPEECH Insert Concordy Sports FACULTY COLUMN Page 3 Dutchlllen c,otnplete Season At 2-3-2; Seven Starters To Return Next Fall Season Reviewed By Howard A. Goldberg Even though Union's rec- ord was only 2-3-2, the 1964 football season would have to be termed a success. New 1 head coach George Flood, in 1 1 his first year coaching col- lege football, has shown he I' has the ability to build a winning football team. Even in defeat, this year's team looked like a ball club and was never out of any ball game. The team was a complete opposite of last year's in that it came back after halftime stronger than ever, mainly due to the excellent con- dition that the squad was in. Win Opener The team opened on the road with a 16-9 victory over St. Law- rence. This aroused the campus to the fact that the Garnet was going to be an interesting ball club. In the second outing of the year Union and Alfred battl~d to a 7-7 tie. The Dutchmen hmtecl that they were the better ball club but just couldn't put any proof on the scoreboard. On the third weekend of the season Union met a strong Roch- ester team which played a fine game and should have walloped the Dutchmen. Somehow, our gutty football team did not let this take place and the outcome of the game wasn't decided until the final minutes. Final score: Rochester 20, Union 14. At Geneva, N. Y., the DutCh- men were upset by a fired up Ho- bart squad. The Garnet play.ed only the second half up to J,ts capability, clobbering Hobart in the third and fourth quarters. But the Statesmen had buil>t up enough of a lead to stave off the second half rally of the Dutch- men. The final score read 19-13 Hobart, but this score should have been reversed. Hitchcock Excels The final home game, against Williams, was a real slam-bang affair with quarterback Tom Hitchcock breaking several ~chool records in passing. The J~mor quarterback passed 43 t1mes completing 22 for 288 yards. Each of these was a school record. T~e Garnet took a 14-0 lead af!d. still was in the game . as W1_Ihams came back to pull 1t out m the fourth quarter 48-27. . The final game, agamst Ham- ilton, was another thrille; which saw both schools help mcrease tthe inter-collegiate reCiord fo.r tied games in a series to 12. The final score of 26-26 was proof of the closeness of the game. Five Seniors Leave Next year looks promising and this is not a wait-'til-nex~-year plea. Most of the squad w1ll r~­ turn. Missing will be captam John Soper, who did an ~mtsta~d­ ing job under the stram of m- juries all year. Art Marshall, probably the most unsung pla~er on the team, will surely b.e mJ~s­ ed. He did an outstandm.g JOb on offense and defense, kJCkmg off, kicking extra P.oints. and re- turning punts and krck-offs. Mar- shall also set four school records. Also missing from the Garnet a.nd Gray will be Brendan Hutchm- son. Not enough can be said of Hutch's ability and desire. An- other player that is hardly heard from except when he is on the field is John Wilson. He was a mainstay in the middle of the Garnet line both on offense and defense. He will be missed. Outlook Good Even though coach Flood will be losing these outstanding foot- ball players and leaders, he still will have no excuse for a poor season next year. Returning are enough good gridders to form a solid nucleus for his squad. Quar- terback Tom Hitchcock, who show- ed remarkable improvement over the entire season and who ap- pears to throw and use his pass protection more like . a profes- sional every game, wlll be ba;ck to lead the offense. Also, the m- comparable Bob DeMichele will be back for his final varsity sea- son. Helping out with the attack will be juniors Jim Rami~h ( 430 yards in 96 attempts rushmg; 4.4 yards per carry; 6 touchdown~) and Rich Clemens (168 yards m 45 attempts rushing; 3.7 yards per carry; 1 touchdown). There will be plenty of beef up front to help out in the persons Paul Woodell (70) rushes to the rescue as Hamilton defenders close in on Brendan Hutchinson. Swimmers And Cagers Prepare For Openers By Gary Van Graafeiland 1 The varsity swimming team 1 will, this season, be out to im- prove on last year's fine 8-2 rec- ord. The way things look now, the chances are good that it will. Strong Events By Eric Singer Hoping to overcome inexperi- ence and a lack of height, the varsity cagers will open their season Dec. 2 against Middlebury here at Union. They will be try- ing to improve last year's 12-9 record. Coach Evans, however, was pessimistic in his outlook, since every game on this year's schedule promises to be difficult. Helping the team will be the return of Captain Gary Brown, Dave Casper, and Larry Fabian. Also returning from last season will be Brendan Hutchinson and Martin Goldberg, a six foot, two inch forward, but with no previ- ous game experience. Sophs Strengthen Squad The team, according to coach Beaudry, is strong, especially in the individual medley and free- style departments. Holdover Paul Shields will swim the individual medley fo1· the Dutchmen. Last year he went undefeated in this event, setting a new school record of 2:14.8 along the way. He cap- ped this off by wi~ning. th~ .New York State Collegmte md1vrdual medley championship in the s~ill better time of 2:13.7. Co-captams Bill Schauer and Phil Evans will join Shields in the freestyle events. Last season, all three men did tremendous jobs in these races, Schauer and Evans doing The squad is counting on con- particularly well in the .200 ya~d siderable help from several so- fn:e-otyle. The team wrll, aga~n phomores, among them Greg this year, be ably represented m Olson, Tom Urbelis, Ron Gian- .he 200 yard backstroke event by cola, and Denny Peskin. Olson Dick Siers. Dick set a Union was the leading scorer on last backstroke record last year with year's freshman team, with Ur- a time of 2:16.8. He went on to belis trailing him by four tenths capture third place in the New of a point per game. Giancola York State Collegiate tourna- is the big man on the team, and ll!ent and he bettered his record will most probably see action as setti~g time by more than one a center. Coach Evans described second, 2:15.3. The 200 yard but-1 Peskin as perhaps .the \quickest terfly should be another Union man on the team.\ strong point with David Rowe ready to go. Rowe is but another Game Tactics returning swimmer who did an The Garnet will again employ exceptional job in hi:s specialty a fast break offense, as they did last season. Other men who Coach Beaudry hopes will contribute to last year. The set-up will c<Jn- the team's success are Heyman, sist of four guards and a post · Ch · man. A larger stress will be Computer Mistaken Union College ended its 1964 football season last Sat- urday at Hamilton. Both teams scored 26 points to rack up the 12th tie in the 69th game of this rivalry. The outcome was not de- dded until seven seconds re- · mained in the game. With. the score tied, Union started a drive from its own 31 yard line which was not stopped Until one of Tom Hitchcock's passes was intercepted in the Hamilton end zone. The game started on a bad note for the Garnet when fumbles stalled its first two drives and set up Hamilton scores. The 1 Dutchmen finally got rolling in I the second quarter as they drove 58 yards for a touchdown coming on a 14 yard pass to Marc Hurl- but. Union scored again in the second period when Hitchcock hit Art Marshall for Union's second s:ore. The first half ended with Hamilton ahead 14-12. After Hamilton scored in the third period <>n a 60 yard running play, the Garnet began a march of 64 yards that was capped by a 4 yard run by RiC!h Clemens, bringil1g the score to 20-18 in favor Df Hamilton. Union Takes Lead Union tGok the lead in the fourth quarter Oll.J a drive that was led by the running of Clem- ens and Jim Ramich. Hitchcock carried the ball over himself for the score and then picked up two points on the conversion. With a lead of 26-20, Union started a drive that seemed as if it would clinch the game, but lost the ball by a fumble on the Contine!lJtal 13 yard line. In ten plays, including a pa.ss interfer- ence call against Art Marshall, Hamilton was in the Union end zone with the tying score. Their extra point kick was blocked by Bob Ma1·shall and the score was deadlocked at 26-26. For the first time this season Cnion attempted two point con- versions instead of relying on Art Marshall's very consistent toe. The extra points could have made the difference since Marshall had kicked 12 of 14 in Union's first six games. This point could sup- ply many armchair quarterbacks with fuel for the winter as they question coach Flood's decision. Hitch, Hurlbut And Marshall Set 13 Records UNlON COLLEGE FOOTBALL RECORDS SET IN 1964 Papanicolaou and Garnson. ris placed on defense this year than Cassels should lead the team in diving. in previous seasons. Since the Game: The maJ 'or s·tumbl!'ng blocks for squad will have difficulty in pull- . ch k 1 b d d t th I k Most Pass Att: 43, H1t coc the ' ·a 1 ·s 1 ',ty this year should be c own re oun s ue o e ac f h · ht f 11 t 'll (Williams, Oct. 31) Wesleyan ~nd Willia_ ms_ .. the team.s o eJg ' a u -cour pl•ess Wl h k \ \\ \ l' tl b d · d t Most Pass Comp: 22, Rite coo which dealt the Dutchmen their requen Y e use m ot· er · o two 1963-64 setbacks. However, try to steal the ball. On the (Williams, Oct. 31) if returnees hold true to form, and brighter side of things, the Dutch- Most Pass Ydg: 288, Hitch- l .t' a few new men fulfill their po- men have good speed, and this cock, (Williams, Oct. 31) ' d · b tt h t' Most Total Off: 298, Hitch- ~ential, even these two schools Y-\ar s squa 1s a e er s oo mg should be left in the wake of an team than last season's. Coach cock (Williams, Oct. 31) extraordinary Union squad. Evans also stated that he hoped Most Passes Caught: 9, A. Mar- Schedule the team would be able to pick shall (Hobart, Oet. 24) The schedule: Dec. 5, ECSA up Bill Boehm, who stand.s six Season: meet, at Rutgers; Dec. 12, Har- foot five, by Februa1·y. The pur away; Dec. 15, Oneonta coach said that Boehm, who is Most Pass Att: 168, Hitchcock State, away; Jan. 9, Rochester, ineligible at the moment, would . ( 1964) away; Jan. 1:3, Wesleyan, home; 1 be of immediate help to the squad Most Pass Camp: 88, Hitch- Feb. 5, Tufts, home; Feb. G, Ham- 1 if he were to report in shape in cock (1964) ilton, home; Feb. 10, Vermont, 1 . February. Most Pass Ydg: 1,112, Hitch- away; Feb. 12, N.Y.U., home; . cock (1964) Feb. 17, Williams, home; Feb. 24, ~~ach Evans c!t~d Roches~er, Most TD Passes: 8, Hitchcock Trinity, away; Feb. 27, RPI, home. W!llJ~ms, and Trl!lity, as bemg ( 1964) The ·squad: l3arsy, Cassels, cspec1ally tough this year. Wben Most Passes Caught: 29, A. Duchscherer Evans, Garrison, asked about arch-rival R.P.I., Marshall (1964) Gow, Heym~n, Hubbard, Hazel- the coach admitted that they Punting: 29, 1,200/42.0 Avg. ton, Jiminez, Kellner, Lasky, would b~ tough, but that we :had Hurlbut (1964) }log-a!, Papanicolaou, Rowe, an outs1de chance to beat. them. Career Pass Receiving: Ruschmeyer, Schauer, Shields, Coach Evans summed l!P h1s out- Siers Thornton. look for the forthcommg season Most Passes Caught 61, Art To~10rruw, at 2 p.m., the sec- by adding \if we stay healthy, Marshall (1962-64) ond annual varsity-freshmen meet we'll make people scramble.\ Mo.st yards gained 758, Art will take place in Foote Memorial Marshall (1962-64) pool. Coach Beaudry considers this to be the team''s first meet, and he predicted a close outcome, since the freshman team is very strong. Students .are encouraged to come out and watch two ex- c~llent teams in action. of Chris Cassels, Jim DeNitto, Fred Hay, DoUg Horan, Marc Hurlbut, Dick Male, Bol;) Mar- shall, Tom Morgan, John Morri- son, John Tinker and Paul Wood- ell. Bridge Club Holds First Tournament Last Tuesday night the Union College Student-Faculty Bridge Club held its first duplicate tournament. Thirteen teams competed, four of which were faculty teams. Surpdsingly, the top faculty team finished third. It was common last year for the faculty to place several teams in· the hig-hest positions. Taking first place were Ed Prostie and Jake Lieb with 59 points. Finishing second in their fh'st tournament were novices Richie Aron and Ricky Resch. They accamulated 58 points. Trail- ing Re·sch and Aron by just one half point were Professors Stone and Lambert. The next tournament will be held on December 8. mmuco«:l[( Union Coll~ie. All- lime !records .._.o- Tou.chdhwn. lisses -o- g9~~@ ~d$. total o.f.fef\se '' a.nd Time Out: Antediluvian Anecdotes By Ricky Resell I £, I •• ili \The key to a succes,sful season is experience and a lack of in- • juries,\ stated Coach Flood, realizing that the lack of these closely related qualities was the cause of Union's disappointing grid season. This year's was the team that was supposed to carry Union up from the depths of football obscurity in which it lay dormant since 1956. • What happened? Five of Ten Heturn First of all, five of last year's ten returning ::;tarter·s ne\'er re- turned. Through academics, accidents or a-pathy Coach Flood \Vas • forced to fill five positions with players that would have given L'nion one of its strongest benches in years. In addition, two of the squad's most experienced gridders, captain John Soper and Brendan Hutch- inson, suffered injuries that kept each of them from participation in two full games and lessPnetl ·their efficiency in sereral others. f) Since this was Coach Flood's first college couching expedence, he, pos'sibly more than anyone else, feels the letdown. Realizing that with a few turns o.f fate Union's record could have had an entirely different complexion, he said, \We were so close to having- a good ll record that it's disheartening,\ Should Have Won Four Coach Flood felt that the Hamilton ant! Hobart contests were the \two that could have gorre our way.\ Alfred outplayed Union, ,. statistically at any ra'le, su the Cuach woule!n't count that game as a possible victory. Against both Hoba1t and Hamilton the injuries to Hutchinson were the key factor,;. His replacement in Union's never-too-powerful • ground game was not nearly as vital as in his position as defensive back. Losing the participation of one or eYen two players, however, can not make the difference bet·ween a 4-2-1 slate and a record of 2-3-2. Q Against Hamilton, the Ga1·net lost possession because of fumbles on its first two series of plays. Both fumbles Jed to Hamilton touch- downs. It seemed to be a Garnet habit this year of not recovering very many of its fumbles. The Dutchmen fumbled 17 times and lost the ball 11 times. At Clinton last Saturday, they lo·st three of four t.. fumbles. If any of the three had been recovered Union's record would now be 3-3-1. Union seemed not only to dislike 1-ecovering its o>Yn fumbles, but hesitated to pick up pigskins dropped by its opponents. The Dutchmen were the cause, more Ol' less, of 21 fumbles by its • adversaries of which only 8 were recovered by the Garnet. . \~ ~\'---- VOL. ·Stu .. De~ c: .. Ale \ Commit ~· been a~ the last ;, active in in 1962-( members ' rear, th2 repartee! \ on'y 750 . '\ the ing the with the this was ~ Jeffrey E gures pn number < in more The comr gate this e The St been reor ship of • • C1·ay anr and adde, ance has Lockwooc tion of tt Hono John members \. the issue fore the personal , Concordie J l1cldecl tha in this s• research he contin: Reporti ments fot liam B'ur. culars bea possible e distributee The most submitted and will of financi: ::'>/ext l\ As thero ·' ness nor cussed, th a motion regularly , the Counc House Stt day, Dece Interested . to attend. ... ___ _ · From Coach Flood's point of view, losing possession by a fumble was equivalent to giving Union's opponents a 42 yard advantage (Marc Hurlbut's punting m·erage). Con version Strategy In its final game Union changed its conversion st1·ategy. In six games Art Marshall had kkked l2 e~tra points in 14 attempts. One wonders why Coach Flood decided to try for two points against Hamilton. In answer to this question the Coach said that \Unfor- tunately for us they went ofl'sides <Jn Dur first attempt for an e){tra point.\ This moved the line of flCrimmage from the three to the one one and a half yard line. Trailing fourteen to six Flood thought that at such short range two points were worth the gamble. The gamble failed and Union was forced to continue its new strategy to make up for the missing point. . . Mat Scet Woodell Wins Praise In speaking of the Hamilton game Coach Flood cited Paul Woodell, saying, \This wa:s Paul's best game of the year. He's definitely the unsung hero of the team.\ In early September, Wood- ell showed an interest in playing in the backfield, but when Flood said he needed him most on the line, he complied and gave his best effort. Four of the five senio1·s who will be graduating this year were starters-John Soper, Art Marshall, Brendan Hutchinson, and Joh:tl Wilson. Flood feels that Soper and Mal'shall \\'ill be extremely dif~ ficult to replace as receivers. One of the pass catching records .fh;:tt Marshall will be graduating with is 9 receptions in one game. Jl{lar- shall, in addition to being an outstanding wingback, played saiety and compiled more minutes of playing time than anyone else. Against Hamilton John Soper tied the previous one game record by taking in 8 of Torn Hitchcock's aedals. Flood thinks he will be able to use sophomore Chris Cassels at defensive end and as a blocking end on offense, but Chris will not match Soper as a receiver. Change In Running Game In addition to improving Union's perennially weak defense Coach Flood said that he may institute a change in the Garnet ground game. Instead of having- bar1{s slant toward hole's and depend upon other backs to block he may attempt to pull out linemen to block. The Coach feels that our backs may .ha,·e been too small to block in Union's type of power game. Flood said that he was \pleased with our passing game. A quarterback like Hitchcock could probably make any passing game go.\ In speaking of the recently conclucletl st>a'son· in general, tht> Coach summarized, \I was p1eased with the attitude of the football players and their desire to work and g-et into cnndition, but I waR dissatisfied with our record and look for improvement in this area.\ M;argare1 ..- Shakespeaz ., tor, presen sparse con· some of Sr though sl: choices we ment,\ the the various works of tl presented 1 in some ca: more than recited one Autl Profess01 man of the introduced woman wh rected, or Shakespear tioned that He called . Without TE Miss We formance \ which is a· comment o with an ap] assist her, · . the Prologt: then appli( the theatr world's a s and women As You Li demonstrat

