w cagers season. _eets on Dec. lost to • 'l l set by 1! three 1 1 ,' i' Paul I\ ac- ·•' • ry, won l · I 200 yd. I 100 yd. •) ~ Dick the Harpur, J 1 the vic- ··~ ~ team. , · Shields ';:. ~· entioned d •I 'f ry, •,.il Florida, , 1 1 , al, Dave ! best , ( . nd Dick i 1 also in- ex- ~~udry d·i Jl ., l at 1-1, 1 for a I ow.' Al- J 1, •l· rong as ' words, I meet.\ ' a home P.M. ·J• really I beat us 'and are . the shape\ varsity reshmen II..:~ 1 0 I· would dropped list of prac- be, of varsity G\ sJight- , 1 , 061 Vol. 94- No. 13 182 Frosh Matched In First Round Bids Dorm Rush Held Next ·week Tidmarsh Dead At 7 3; Head~dMusicDepartment By Mark Kasowitz Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, the founder of Union's Department of Music and one of the world's highest ranked concert organists, died on January 26 at the age of 73. Tidmarsh headed the Music Department at the college for thirty years until his retirement in 1956. During his long tenure, Dr. Tidmarsh taught organ, voice, and music appreciation and was hon- ored by t't1e college with ~ Doctor of Music Degree in 1933. In ad'- dition to teaching he gave over 700 free concerts in Memorial Chapel and countless others 1 throughout the Tri-Cities are~, j where he was well known for h1s . contributions to the arts. ' Active Locally I Dr. Tidmarsh had directed the 1 Thursday Musical Club of Sche-1 nectady since 1920. Also, he led I the former local Schubert Club and was organist and choir direc- tot· of the First Presbyterian Church. He directed the Monday Musical Club of Albany and was active in the Troy Musical Art Club. He also enjoyed a great deal of prestige on the Continent. He was one of the world's most respected crganists, having played in the leading cathedrals of Europe dur- ing his summers. For several years he gave recitals at the American Ca·thedral in Paris and in recent- summers was invited to play at the Notre Dame Cathe- dral, an hono~ which is given only t\ a very select few. He was pro- fessionally asso~iated with such noted musicians as Dupre, Widor, Liebert, and Grainger. Receives Highest Honors Dr. Tidmarsh studied at the Guilmant Organ School in New York City, from which he received ~:~.h Associate of American Guild Organists degree. For ten sum- DR. ELMER A. TIDMARSH mers he attended the Conserva- tory of Music at Fountainbleau, France. He was awarded with an Executant's Diploma, the highest honor conferred by the Conserva- tory to a graduate. In 1937 Dr. Tidmarsh was named an \Officer of the Palms\ by the French Academy for his interest in French music. Scholarships Awarded In 1956 the Elmer A. Tidmarsh Scholarship Fund was established at Union by the Thursday Musical Club on the occasion of its 50th Anniversary: As requested by Dr. TidiTI~J,rsh, tlie Income from the fund will be awarded by the col- l~ge each year to a deserving stu- dent who is either in the music department or is actively engaged in the musical activities of the School. The first scholarship was awarded in June 1964. Founded at Union College 18 77 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, FEBRl:JARY 5, 1965 Drive Wide From Seeks Appeal Alumni Three Men· Join Faculty And Staff By Glenn Holzhauer This se.nester Union welcomes One alumnus out of every three several new men to the faculty \last year contributed to the An- and administration. These addi- l nual Fund Drive according to Mr. t:ons will strengthen the Political I Richard E. Adams, Director of Sci~nce and Language depart- . the Union College Annual Fund. ments, as well as the public rela- Adams attributes this increased tions department. response to a growing awareness Distinguished Scholar of the oollege's alumni of the New to the Political Science need for annual support for fac- Department is Professor Joseph ulty salaries. B. Board, Jr., f(}rmerly Chairman Average Gift Larger of the Department of Political The goal of this year's drive, Science and Professor of Political which runs from July 1st to June Science at Cornell College, Mt. 30th, is to have 50 per cent, or Vernon, Iowa. Professor Board 5,000, of the alumni contribute was educated at Indiana and Ox- to the fund, with a monetary goal ford Universities, He is a mem- of $160,000. As of January 31st, ber of Phi Beta Kappa and was $71,000 had been contributed from a Rhodes Schola1•. Other honors approximately 1500 donors. This that he has won have been a represents an average g~ft of NDEA Language Fellowship, and $47.33. According to Adams, these a Central American Fellowship. figures place the drive approxi- Pro~essor Board has served as (Continued on Page 4) {Continued on Page 4) ---------------------------------~------ . . Chi Psi Placed On Probation Chi Psi Fraternity has been placed on social probation until April 5, 1965 by Dean of Students 0. Edwar Pollock. The fraternity was also depriv:ed permanently of it's privilege to house women over- PRICE 1 S CENTS Honor Progratn iSoundly Defeated SC To Discuss Results Dr. Blodgett To Teach In India Next Year By Matthew l{atz - II by-pass the extremely hot months whi~h constitute -:•tr winter. Represents Government : Professor Blodgett is represent- ! ing. the ~ni~ersity of. Pennsyl- 1 vaata, whtch ts conductmg a five 1 year program with the University 1 of Bombay under the auspices of the Stat~ Department. His stu- 1 dents will be Indian graduate stu· II ce'lts. Professor Blodgett will also act as a consultant on American studies at the University of Bom- bay and neighboring universities. He has taught abroad twice be- fore, both times as a Fulbright I ex::hange professor. He taught in Teheran, Iran in 1958 and in Hol- land in 1954. He has also taught at Cornell University, Illinois Universit<y, Dartmouth University I and Keulm College. j Authority on Whitman I Dr. B'odgett is a noted author- ity on Walt Whitman. He is the DR. HAROLD W. BLODGETT editor of the reader's and vari- 1 orum editions of ' 1 Leaves of Dr. Harold W. Blodgett, of the 1 Grass,\ wh:ch \\~ere published in l)nion English Department will 1964. night. teach American literature in Bolli-~ Pro \essor Blodgett acquired a bay, India next year. Dr. Blod- bach~lor's degree from Cornell Violation of Rules gett, wh? has been at Union for Un!versity in 1921. He received An alumnus of the college, whose name and source of infurrna- twenty-nme years and has been 1 h's :\LA. and Ph.D. degrees from tion were not disclosed, charged that the men failed to vacate the Thomas Lamont Professor of· Cornell in 1923 and 1929 respec- lodge during the course of the evening at a party before last Christ- English Literature since 1948, will tively. · mas. This violated the college soc_ial regulation stating that no fra- b~ visiting professor o~ Am.erican He ststed that he planned to ternity member can spend the mght in a house while women are Literature at the Umvers1ty of concentrate on such major Amer- occupying it without explicit permission. Bombay from June, 1965 !.o ican authors as Eliot, Frost Dos A similar situation .arose two years ago when Alpha Delta Phi .\1\iarch, 1966. The Indian academic I Pa;;sos, O'Neill, Dreiser Em~rson committed the same infraction and received the same penalty. year is so constructed in order to and Thoreau. '

2 007: Bond Is Back By Larry Briskman Jameg Bond is hack and hE''~ gre-ater than Pver. The movie is I Goldfinger and thE' Htm·, as usual. is Sean Connery, the dashing se('ret I agent 007 created by the late Ian Fleming. The film is light-hearted 'i entertainment filled with adventure, suspense, beautiful women, scenes which smack of unreality, and gadgets which mystify the student of modern science. But let me repeat: the film is excellent eseapigt entertainment. ,, Friday, February 5, 1965 Latin Lover: A Mistaken Im.age By Giusippi Ruggieri \A particular characteristic qualifies Italians: they are obsessed, by sex.\ This was the conclusion of a college professor who spent a · year lecturing at a college in the center of Italy. He reached this · conclusion in perfect agreement with his two young daughters who were impressed by the fact that Italian boys looked with particular attention at the interesting· lines of their bodies and often whistled att them. Romantic \Myth\ Refuted Unfair Attack It is worth noting that this judgment, even though it reflects a • rea:! aspect of the Italian cus·toms is; in a general sense, wrong. The The movie bPg.ins with what seems like the end of Bond's pre- : image of Italian men always in search of love adventures is in part a \'iou:::: al'signme-nt and is complPtely in<l.icaUve of the delightful un-' myth created in the mind of foreigners and in pa.rt a reality created l'Pality of the rest of the film. Bond, engaged in a passionate em- by tourists. AI!- Aus~rian tourist c,ompany advertis~d. its progralll: of, brace with n beautiful dark-haired fpmale, peers into het• eyes and summer vacatw\ls m Italy ofi'ermg to the part1c1pants beautiful discerns a man with a club about to attack him. Bond quickly itineraries, excellent hotel .acrommodations and ... boys! Swedish turns thl:' girl around and shl:' receives the blo·w in his place. This g·irls come to Italy to enjoy the warmth of the Italian sun and of the action, of course, brings large amounts of laughte1· from the audience Italian boys, and to escape the monotony of their country and coun- D:nd perfectly puts it into the mood to receive the rest of the film tl·ymen. In such an enviroment, with girls in seru·ch of love adven-t· in the correct light-one of unbridled frivolity. From this point on \' ''\ tures and with the Italian boys knowing the girls' desires, the only the movie is delightful entertainment and fullfills, in this reviewer's possible relation is a sexual one. If we change the variables, for in- estimation, the sole purpose for which it was produced. < , • stance, if we substitute Italian girls for the tourists, the results will B d ' · h' fil · b'll' · ld 1 h · I <' ·· · · '\' ·· · · · be different. • on s enemy m t 1s . m Is a 1 wnai·re go smugg er w o IS 1 .,,., . . .. ,,,,. . <0 •• • 1 : appropriately named Auric Goldfinger and is well po1trayed by Gert 1 •· · · i Italian boys and girls think to the future rather than to tran- Frobe. Other satirically named characters are Goldfinger's personal) One of the ski slopes at Willard Mountain, available to Union students, sient adventures. They try to know each other rather than to spend bodyguard, O~d-Job, and his _personal pilot, Miss Pu~sf Galore. Both at reduced rates. I a night tog:ether. \It seems tha.t a curious s~ate of neutrality has are \.IP tu their role::;, Lut neither cuuld be called bnlhant. One does .I --- -- -·<· · ~. · ><-<-- 1 been established between young boys and gu·ls born after Wo.rldt, not, howe.ver, go to :;ee this film to watc~ excellent acting. Rather, w· R R I War 11: comradeship, common life, friendship, but alJ?OSt neve~ a une goes Ill order to be thoroughly entertamed and does not go away tllard M· t ates educed. relation based upon a sexual push\-as Tempo, an Itahan magaz~ne rli'sappointed in the least. Connery, as Bond, continually seems bored ' • put it in an inquiry on the youth in Italy. It is interesting to note by it all, but possibly this is the new conception of how the super- one of the an·swers a girl gave to the mag·azine: \I think that re- cool bun vivant. should act. Even with this, Bond still comes out of F· or Unt·on Men and Dates· lations between boys and girls. are based upon friendship and sin-f' the film looking likt> an almost ti·anscendental idol. 1 · · · 1 cerity\ One boy said, \There is a gre.at change from the former . . . . gener~tion: coeducational schools, sports in common, excursion, etc., Auvu: IS an Emstem · Skiing has been made available 1 , ville and follow Rt. 67 to Rt. 40; give us the opportunity to be togethet and to enjoy each other's M·ost of the film's scenes are very well staged and Goldfinger to Union students on weekdays turn left on Rt. 40 and continue company.\ •· seems to be portrayed a·s the Albert Einstein of the world of crime. (Tuesday through Friday) at re- to North Easton. Unusual Sex Relations His use of laser beams and atomic bombs present Bond with a few·. duced rates at Wi!la.Fd Mountain. I As an added incentive, any date very novel way::; of facing death. Naturally James comes out {)n This opportunity has come about of a Union College studerut may top in the end but the suspense is very real and very effective. In largely through the effm,ts of the also ski for $1.50. (The ski area fact, Bond's ingenuity in facing all \cleat· and present danger\ con- Student Tax Committee in con- is conveniently located 13 miles stitutes most of the delightfulness which the film displays. junction with the Student Council, east of Saratoga Springs, and Office of the Dean of Students, so:ne 18 miles north of Troy) The The movie is filled with humor, but most of it is pure corn. A and the Athletic Department. For best route from Saratoga is to fine example comes when Bond is interrupted in his love-making ·the privilege of reduced rates, follow Rt. 29 from the town by a phone call. James asks the railer to try again later adding that the Student Tax c()mmittee paid through Schuylerville to the inter- \ something big has come up.\ Other examples of corn are liberally a fee of $200 to the Willard Mt. ~:ection of Rt. 40. Turn right on sprinkled throughout the film and by the end are somewhat tiring. C · E h d t t R 40 d h d N h The conclusion that many sociologists, churchmen and parents have reached is that the sexual relations, between Italian boys and 4 girls are different from what is normally imagined. Freedom is great, and thus gives rise to fanstastic suppositions. The physical com- munion, in the various occasions the modern life offer's, is extreme: but it generates a sense of neutrality. The relation between sexes was more dramatic in the past times. The meeting between boys and girls,•· forbidden in the normal way, took place then, when possible, on a sexual basis. With the changes of the modern life the relation be- tween sexes has been \de-dramatized.\ But the element of frivolity shines through and the humor succeeds orpm·atwn. ac stu en mus t. an t en procee to ort . . . th fil t . d 1 pay $1.50 upon showing a student Easton. If your point of depart- Increased Relations m g1vmg e m a Iemen ous mass appea · I.D. card. This constitutes a sav- ure is Troy, simply follow Rt. t· But Can It Cook? ing of $2.00 over the usual price. 40, which leads directly to the I It does not mean that there is a decrease in sexual relations; Any reviewer cannot make totally dear the complete unreality I Gym credits can be obtained by I mounta!n. . . . . I on the contrary there is an increas~ .. But the ii~crease in sexual re- of the film without de'scribing Bond's fantastic automobile, an skiing at Willard. Each student 1 Opemng ~he facthhes at WJ!- lation·s doe~ no.t sup·port the ?efimtwn of Itaha~s ~s obsessed bye Aston-l\Iartin. The car is equipped with a radar scope to track other should present his J.D. card and, ~ard Mounta1p to the student body s.ex. ObsessiOn IS a state o.f mmd; a human r~latwn IS. a p~ttern of car,., automatic machine guns which are housed in the headlights, I s:gn a list which wiU be available j JS a novel 1dea on the. part of j hfe. Personally I am c~n'V}~ced that the phys1~al relatwn IS one of and an t>jeetion s~at to r·emove any riqer s!tting next to .the dt·iver':s 1 at the ticket office in·~!de t~e t]\le Student Tax qommtttee an? 1 the m~st powerful and m~ISIV~ mean~ of acqua1_ntance betwe~>n boys beat. Bond make::; use of all these dences m one fantastic scene. As base lodge. One day of sknng w1 11) the. Stl!dent Counc1l. The. oppo;- and .g1rls. W~en sexual 1 el~~;twns w1ll .be considered as nOIJ'!lal as\' if all of these gadget::; were not enough, the car can also set up a' be the equivalent of one gym tumtr 1s presen~ed on a trial bas1s dancmg or gomg to the mov1e, there will be no sexual obsesswn. snHJ~e screen from the exhaust pipe, lay oil on the road. to cau~e l credit. I and IS ?~~ bemg att~mpiedd be-l) The increase in the opportunities in human relations brings down chasmg car:; to go out of contr:oi, and has bullet-pr_oof wmdows .m I The ski area features a 17151 c~uked o 1/x~enses. mvo ffl. on sex from the human minds to the human iife and makes it a normal both front and rear. These dences were also used m the one w!ld foot double T-bar which rises 500 I v. eed ays. t ered IS su ciehnt pattern of behavior My conclusion is that sexual obsession is not ch·tse of the film · f h · . 1 stu ent response an support t e . ·. . . •· < • vert1~al eet. T. ere are ,mne tra1 s 1 program will he continued 'and an Italian charaeteristlc or a phenomeno~ bound ~o geographical I have but two main complaints about the movie. With many rangmg from mtermedlwte}o ex- i probably expanded in the ensuing areas, but a, phenomenon bound to a par~lcular society, where th~ lovely females in the cast, the amount of sex which the picture con- pert, ~~ well :;;s. several bunny I year to include reduced-rate ski- human relatwns are .abn~rmal and unnatuial. We do not any Ionge! tains is pitifully low. Bond is continuously inteiTupted in all his love- slope~. In addition to t~e above· ing on week-ends. It is hoped that have thts type of society m Italy. k . tt~ t d t d t t 11 ' 11 tl mentioned reduced day-time rates h' . . 11 k 1 . 1r: ma mg. a , ~P s :m ~ny s u en' a an a n:en s eo ege can. grea Y (which are in effect from 12:30 to t IS expanswn wt ta e Pace. Italians are, alas, normal men, with normal men's habits and empath1ze w1th h1s phght. Bonds sexual dilemma, a seemmg flaw 5 00 p M ) h , . ht k.. j Dean Pollock commented favor- ormal men's desires in the film, does not, however, greatly detract from its basic v:irtues : · · • t ere IS nrg s nng ably on the new idea and hopes n • a::; au exeiting-ly enterl:aining movie. The title song, h()wever, is totally on. Wednesday, Thursday, and that it will help fill the void in I:;;:::;:;:;:::;;:;:;:;:;:::;;:;::;;::;:::;;:;:;:;:;:::;;:;:;:: unbea!·able and its interjection throughout the film was thoroughly Frtday . f~·om 6:00 to . 10 = 00 P.M.I Union's Winter recreational activ- T \s\r' \u'o' Y£i'Nf 'r' i'TfR¥ .A. v\ .E .. ,_ .... annoymg. N<? ad~lt!onal charge. 1 s. made .for I ities. Jonathan Pearson III, the . , . .· • this pnv1lege. Thus: It IS possible Director of Admissions, also ex- • College Tours II RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT DRUG SUNDRIES FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES NOTIONS In. all, ~ must mamtam that the mo• 1e, as a. p1 oduct of HollY'Yood on. the above mentioned days to I rressed enthusiasm for the new • College Study Programs sensatwnahsm, was very well do!'le for what 1~ was, and that 1s, a ski from ~2:30 to 10:30 for the rrogram and feels that it will talc of ·suspense and adye?.ture mt~1woven w1th corny humor an~ modest ~nee of $1.50. . ! definitely he beneficial in attract- capped off by the fantastic coolness of seeret ,agent 007, Mr. James! There 1s located ~t W1l~ard Mt. 1 ing students to the college. STUDENT & FACULTY GROUP TOURS BAR SUPPLIES POLYETHELENE NOVELTIES ., RENTALS: Bond. an excellent Canad1an Sk1 School , Jazz Trio To Play In 'Skellar staffe<l by c~rtifi.ied ins.tructors.: Haverford, Pa. _ (I.P.)-Be- Cla~ses are gtven on levels !~om i ~ause of the current widespread begmn~r to expert. In a~dJtJon, I interest in the matter of student The Rathskellar Board, the I.F.C., and Saga Food Service are the:e IS a well-stoked ski. sho~ I •reedoms and controversial issues, combining to present the Don York Trio at the Rathskellar nexi: Fri- whi~h features the late~t m ski) Dean of Students James W. day evening. equipment a;nd sno::v fashi.ons. The 1 Lyons reports a policy recently . Admission will be free, and students are encouraged to take their lodge at WJ!l~rd ·IS spacious and I adopted by the Board of Man- dates to the 'Skellar after the basketball game or the movie, \All ?JOdern; par~Icularly noteworthy I agers and Administration of Quiet on the Western Front.\ lS the beautiful recessed central Haverford College. This is an experimental program. If it proves successful, it firWepHi~~d Mt. is located 28 miles will be repeated during the coming semester. The Trio i·s a !oral group, originating in Albany. It consists of n()rth-east of Schenectady and york on the piano, and a bas'S and drummer. The group, influenced can be reached in 45 minutes I greatly .by the D<1ve Burbeck Quartet, concentrates Dn jaxz. York, by following these directions: who is to enter Oberlin Conservatory next fall, has also starred as follow Van Vranldn Rd. to Rt.l Professor Harold Hill in the musical comedy, the Music Man. 'Ilhe 146; take Rt. 146 to Mechanics- I Trio has played many engagements in the area for the Amedcan ville, then turn left on Rt. 4;' Legion, the Bethlehem Central High School, and other civic organ- at the intersection of Rt. 4 and izations. Rt. 67, cross the Hudson River on the first bridge after Mechanics- BOB DYLAN II AT THE i TROY ARMORY FRIDAY, FEB. 12 8:30 P.M. $2.00 ADVANCE SALE $2.50 GATE SIT-DOWN BLANKET CONCERT TICKET OUTLETS: TROY ARMORY MILLERS MUSIC . · 73 4th ST., TROY l VAN CURLER 128 STATE ST. ALBANY VAN CURLER 501 STATE ST. CHENECTADY, N.Y. CELLOPHANE GLASSWARE DISHES Arranged at LOWEST PRICES SILVERWARE 1, Books Now open for Spring and Summer Vacations Schenectady Travel Bureau, Inc. Est. 1930 424 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. PHONE FR 7-8506 Agents For All Leading Airlines - Steam Ship - Rail- roa<ls and Car Rental Cos. DACY PAPER CO. Successor to J. NOGEE & SONS, Inc. Established 1888 WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS PAPER-PAPER BAGS STATIONERY- SCHOOL SUPPLIES Phone FR 4-4429 28-34 N. Broadway Schenectady 5, N. Y. Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing In Italian • American food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA free Parking 01 6·9554 1115 Barrett St. Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES • , , , r (' • ' • ,' \' ,,. • •• ~' '· Frida) ---· S! I'HlumJ p0tpm; Cl Party Speak• power inatior state \ of goy New ): f1·om 1 Joseph HOW Sl faH, e1 ward 1 crats i Tl dent J rem em Of the battali com in€ ing ag rent Cl live, i1 he cou state, ' andre is alm1 any om in Con In future from wildly. becau·s a simil ing na Comm unable lose b: ' ,,. s :N~reli~ two r'e mit ted Soviet the all Chines and th the Nc to pry a~sista Chines regard Union ing na now a 'within by ser the pe1 With China people move L( c BAt Sl fl 7 s Ge11 Thos Whc Hav• ' ' rec-o' FC

5, 1965 ~e ggieri obsessed 1 > spent a ehed this ters who !articular fiistled at t t·eflects a • ·ong. The in part a y created· lgram of beautiful' Swedish nd of the md coun- •e adven-t· the only s, for in- sults will , .. to tran- to spend ality has ;r World•, never a magazine ~ to note that re- and sin-'' e former ;ion, etc., h other's l parents boys and• is great, leal com- extreme: .exes was md girls,t> ble, on a ation be· t•elations; exual re- essed by,. attern of is one of ·een boys ormal as ~ssion. e, r1gs down a normal m is not,. graphical ' rhere the 1y longer II' ~bits and ----- SUNDRIES NOTIONS IOVELTIES r A L 5: LASS WARE DISHES LVERWARE co. lRS JPPLIES 9 ay Y. 1nt )t. ,I Ill fl •• r (' ., : Friday, February 5; 1965\ · ;; Political Scene: As the World Turns By Alon Jeffrey Several events of poltical -impertanee have occurred since this cHiumn wa<> last written. Consequently, this week's column will be a p'ltpourri of comments en the·se events. Book Review: \The Human Season\ By Paul Sherwin 1 Edward Lew:s Watlant died in DE:cember, llJti~, at the age of I thirty-six. Hi's was a writing of grace, limpidity and :;harp-:;inging 1 perception. Wallant's first novel, The Human Season, gl'ows out of · .h:; singularity of a man's grief and \dngs assuredly, visionward I toward the comm<m heart and body of all mf.'n, of all expel'ience. Loss and Alienation Closest to us at T;nion is the current hassle within the Demccratic Party conceming the Presidency of the N~w York Senate and the Speaker of the New York Assembly. On the surface, the fight for power in the state legislature is quite humorous.• Upon closer exam- ination, j.t is nothing more than pathetic. The chosen leaders of a i Joseph Berman, fifty•nine tired year~ ef stone, ha::; witnessed slate who are incapable 0 f governing themselves are scarcely capable I J the wilting of the warm and loving flower that had been his wife . 11 f goy(;Wp~ng the state. It is, it appeat·s, fortunate for the state of i 1 and life. For him there could be no hiding behind the pretentious New York that the Republican Party, although hav:ng isolated itself i i veil of respectable mourni.ng, no desi·re to rebuild the broken a1·tifiee f 1 . 0111 the> Democratic battle fot· four weeks, has finally supported 1 of his existence. He remained in the same house where he and' Joseph Zaretski for the Senate Presidency. The Republican Party, it Mary had w.ithstood the sho<'il;s of time and tragedy and had beamed · · f t 'f f th A b 1 · t 1 with the soft glow of knowilig and being as one. There could be no ~~w seem~, ~., m. a p~r ec posl IOn .or > e s~em Y e e~twns ne~ MORE THAN ENTERTAINING - a s~ene from TEN NIGHTS: solace in the synagogue where he had, as he now thought, wor- fall, especial!~ smce Jt, even .as a mmonty .paJty, has stepped fol- IN A BARROOM presented by the T!.Tilion College Mountebanks. I sh'pped 1 hi's days a\vay to no ava1'l. Tho nJysteJ'l·ous unkno'\ableness ward to provale the leadership so crudely neglected by the Demo- : · ' \ crats in their scramble for personal power. of the God of his Old World forebea1·s had become an unmerciful A t cr A HJI.A\: h 711. ,, and rnalevelent hoax spent upon his fraH finite humanity. Friends; Johnson's Inaugural . r (;Jeen s lY..J:UC lr~ore the friends that he and his wife had shared in joyous and near-joyous The second important event i's also in domestic politics, Presi-1 'T\'h JIK E • moments; his children, one dead and crushed in the inhuman grip dent Johnson's i-naugural addl·es·s. In a speech which will hardly be I ~ ' an J..J'..Lere n.tertatnment I of war, the other fearful of his loneliness and seeming-stt·angeness, remembered for ringing rhetoric, the President painted his picture I I could not dispel the murderous w~ight of h()pelessness and emptiness 0f the Great Society need not be the \ordered changeless and steril By Prof. William 1\[eriwethe•· from h:'s remembering soul. All was a vast and terrible ,·oid; all battalion of the ants\ he said. Indeed it is. \the excitement of be- I things, the s:mple things that accompany life, smelled of the ir- coming-alway::; becofining, trying, prebing, falling, rt:>tlng and try- . Ever_Yone knows what theatre • 1 artistr~· and p~dantJ·r? F<;>r th~t . 1 reconcil~~ble conte!TIP! that he, Berman, addressed te the univ?rse. · b 1 · d l · · \ Wh'l h p · l'S. It IS Broadway and, for some matter, what Js the relatwnshxp He realized that h1s llfe would be wretched and unbearable untd he ing agam:- ut a ways tl'ying an a \\':~tys gaming; 1 e t e res!- of uR, off-Broadway, too. It is 1 beh·een artists and bums or mis- died, ceasect to exist, became a memorr-if anyone would remember rent coni·rnittea himself to remaking Am~rica to be a better place to somehow closely related to tele-, fits?. him. live, it seems that be· has forsaken tlie' American heritage. That he could pledge himself to liberty and justice and, at the same time, vision 'dramas' and series; to Hol- .Although it is difficult fo1· me Affirmation and ResolutioJ\ state, \-8o let us reject any among us who seek to reopen old wounds lywood films and, for some of us, to see the possibility of taking In essen<!e, The Human Season i::~ a highly mural work. Wallant':; and rekindle old hatreds. They stand in the way of a seeking nation,\ Eu!opean and domestic 'art film~.' 1 1 these questions seriousl~r, I find 1 novel explores the· rootless feeling that weeps wordlest>ly from the is almost incredible. If the President intends to reject and push aside It JS the class play presented m that a great many of the people bosom of mod~rn metropolitan life anu affirms the balm fur that anyone who opposes him, he will soon learn that his past successes high school and the community I meet do take them seriously and I misery through a resolute avowal of une::;elf, one's wu1·ld and one':; in Congress were not the result of excessi.ve pressure. theatre production of last year's even ask me the'se and similar ever-present and ever-watchful God. When Joseph· or Berman or ··! Broadway hit. At its best, it sue- ques·tions ~hen they learn that Yus·sel (.as his brethren called him} ceuld my, \I am Joseph and 'Sukarno's Folly ~eeqs. in ~musing Us? perhaps even my field 1s academic . theatre. I am Berman and I am Yussel,\ he was ready to accept. the infinity In the intel:national area, two events occurred which may in the, m tltlllatmg us. It IS a comforta- Therefore, these questiOns do and finiteness cf existence. future become l ·n·terrelated. The first 1 ·s the Ind·onesi·an wi'thdrawal hle and relaxing place to digest have some claim to our attention. Morphology our dinners. It is a form of en- I However, since I am not at this from the United Nations. Indonesia has gambled and gambled tertainment. ! moment in a frivolous frame of The novel proceeds on two levels. In alternate chapters Wallant wildly. Sukarno maintains that he does not need the United Nations ., . . 1 mind, I will confine myself to the moves from the present into the histo1·y of Joseph Berman. Each becau·se it is controlled by the imperialists and hecause he can form Th1<: 1s, of course, .all t:ue. first two questions, which seem glimpse of Berman's past, his days with his wife, his passage to a similar organization of the \progressive\ forces of the new emerg- ~at 1s .descnbed ab~ve 1s as 1e~-. to me to be serious and responsi- America, his childhood in Kiev, endows him with more depth and ing nations. In this venture, Sukarno is strongly supported by the 1esentat1ve of the ai~ of theabe ble ones: what is this \much more immediacy. Each ·scene probes d:;e·p and deeper, eventually tell- Communist Ch·ihese. Quite obviously, the Chinese, since they are as No_rm;an Rockwell IS of ~h~ art mDl:e,\ and why is it'? ing of Berman's earliest recognt:on of life as a boy, an episode unable to obtain admi·ssion to the United Nations, have nothing to of pamtmg an~ Man.to~~m IS of Artist as a Seeker which, in the novel's structure, mirrors that same recognition of lose by encouraging Sukarno•s folly. ~he art ,of mustc. It 1s C?mmod- At the outset, it must be un- an older and \less nice\ Berman. The Human Season i·s regulated ' ,\\ Sukarno, however, may be thwarted by the visit of Kosygin to· tty art, ~hose sole f~ctwn and derstood that a serious artist is by the unity of a closed circle. ·North~ Vietnam. Apparently Kosygin is visiting North Vietnam for pur:po~~ IS to., entertam a ma:ss a seekei'. He seeks to understand Wallant's Literary Merits two r;easo'ns. First, the Soviety Union, it seems, ts somewhat com- aufl.ence. 1 ;wfiat pl~cel ha~ such the world he lives in, and the ob- The prayer for meaning and hope that marks Wallant's writing mit~ed to .the .maJntenance. ~f No:·th Vietna~ per se. Sec~nd, the arN~~:. co ege curricu um · jel!t ?~ his study is Nature. T~e pla~es him be'side s~ch m?derns .as R()th, .Mailer, Bellow, Rosenfel, Soviet U:mon IS m competitwn w?th the Chi~ese Comn;tun~sts for . . physlClst seeks to und~rstand h~s 1 Salmger,. othe~ ~~wi~h wl'lters w1th ~·~ots m, bot~ the. h.ere-and-now the allegmnce of the Southeast As1an communl'sts. At this time the 1 Obvwusly, Rembrandt, Breughel · wo1:ld too, and the obJect of his of Arnl'ncan Clnhzatwn and the tradttJOns of the1r rellgwus culture. Chinese seem to have secured the allegiance ()f the Indonesian PKI and Picasso; Bach, Mozart and l study is also Nature. However, Yet, Wallant seems to stand above and beyond these writers in and the North Koreans. Similarly, they exercise great influence over/ Stravinski are .painters and com- the subject of the physicist's many ways. He had a keen eye for the peculiarities, intimacies, drives the North Vietnamese. If, however, the Soviet Union should be able posers whose are is entertaining; study is physics; the subject of of his characters as well as for the ·subtle shapes of nature and to pry North Vietnam from the Chinese by offering them material., but their art is also much more. the artist's study is Art: painting, 1 phenomena. There is an uncannily adept exaltation of tile most trivial as~istance and by. pointing out to th.em the threa~ posed by the Obviously,. Euripides, Shake- sculpture, mus:c, drama, the n<?v.el, 1 and in~isive painting of inciden~~ and .objE.~ts. His search for a s.elf Chmese .colossus, Sukarno and the Chmese may be m deep trouble speare, ·Strmdberg and Brecht are poetry, dance. Both the physiCist that might go beyond the self lmks h1m w1th such men as Hopkms regarding a United Sations of the new emerging nations. The Soviet playwrights whose art is enter-. and the artist l'epresent a way of I and Whitman. There is, in Wallant'.:; writing, a triumph over death Union has no stake in such a plan and may encourage the develop- 1 1 taining; but their art, too, is also knowing, an approach to lmder- 1 through a perpetual, preslnt always, making anew, NOW. This is the ing nations to disregard Sukarno's plan. If this be the case, as it much more. standing. Both the physicist and 1 office of celebration of life, it is the reason for the faith and the _now appears, Indonesia might well succumb to a· cemmunist coup the artist are committed to only joy, it is the statement of vocation of a great religious artist. ' within the next year. There i's no question that Indonesia is beset Art and Misfits on€ way of knowing, of the many by serious economic problems; problems which have been kept from It is this much more which in possible. 'Ways of knowing' can/ H S F d T B the people by th~ lead~rship's pre-oc~upation with crushi.ng Mala~sia .. terests me here. What is it? Why be roug:hly .eq~a!ed to the va_rious I onor ystem oun 0 e Wi.th <;omplete 1solatwn from available sources of a1d ( cert!l-1~ly is it? Are Great Artists and Clas- academic di~clph.nes: the phiioso- Chma JS not powerful enough to support another hundred m1lhon · · 'c Works cr a ted and sustained ph€r, the histonan, the psycho I- 0 } S d • }) E ££ t • people), Indonesia will be in a dl'sperate situativn ripe for another· h~ the lurid i~ao-inatioiis of dilet- o,gist, the. anthrop9lol!o'ist all rep-~ 0 Y p0ra lCa Y eC 1 Ve move by the PKI. t t d be.? r - A t 'th resent vahd and d1stmct ways of · an e<: alnA sno 11 s · .s 1 r Wl kno 1 ving 'l'he creative individual Reprinted from New York Post (by Alvin Davis) L G. BALFOUR CO. CARL .SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY YOUR LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS • TROPHIES JEWELER AWAY Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N. Y. 13210 FROM HOME 428 State St. D E··W ITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and LegaJ Beverages liB. 120 JAY STREET For. threei -_ ... GeneratitJns ••• Those Who Know Have been ' . rec·ommending - HERSHEL MAURICE a. WALTER '·MauriueJB: Graubart & Sons ~ 11 3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' • (· (_~.. <, · . 166JAY-ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY a capita rea y mere y a vast · fi. ld., th wh ·· scheme of the wealthy to allow m any ~ IS , e one. 0 IS cap; It all seems to have happened on the same weekend. The Air I th t 'te ff . ? Is there able of mtellectual discovery, OJ. Force Academy gets caught in the biggest scandal of its history. em ax wh:r_:I -o sS.h k original thought, of demonstrat- 0 h d d d t f d h · · 1 d' 30 f t'- ll I , re.ally somet .mg to . a espeare, ing- a significant, meaningful in~ ne un re ca e s are oun c eatmg, me u mg oo \a payers. 01 was .he s1mply agr~ed on by sig:.ht into our \Vorld: he is, in Up ;tt Columbia, a research team issues a report showing that 50 educato1~ as an effective means brief an individual who fur,J;her;; per cent of students across the country admit cheating at one time of torturmg defenseless students? • or another, and an enterprising press officer gets the report to the What is the relationship between (Continued on Page 4) papers in time to coincide with the Air Force scandal. Over at the -;::;::;~:;::;::;~:;:;:;.~:;::;:;~:;::;:;~::::::::::;:::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;: Welfa1·e Dept., Commissioner Dumpson, embattled as always, gets no ., 1 space at all on the fact that at least 55 people on relief voluntm·ily FRANK' FERRARO Wholesale and Retail fruits and P,roduee . . . . ~ - Fresh Oaily - Twice Daily ~n Campus 1231 CRANE STREET Schenectady, N. Y. 01 6-1763 DIAMANTE'S Enioy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate o.n Nott St. Open Daily 1 0 to 3 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. - 3 A.M. LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Food 1125 BARRETTT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 sent back their checks last week on the grounds they were no longer entitled to them. Does the coincidence say something for morality, or for controls? The Air Force credits the uncovering of its scandal to the Honor System, a code of discipline employed in one out of five colleges and in all military academies. The code says, in effect, that you must not cheat and you must inform on those who do. It may be effective, but I have a feeling it'<; the most barbaric academic practice since German students raised the saber scar to the status of prix d'excel- lence. It seems to me the Honor System doesn't build honor, which is an intensely personal thing, but a f-ear of dishonor. It makes a responsi-bility to catch out of a fear of g-etting caught. I don't defend for a minute the cadets in the Air Force scandal, but I credit the systern with good police work, not good morality. Are the schools without the system without the honor? I went up to have a talk yesterday with the young man who got out the Columbia report. He's a talL, gaunt 29-year-old graduate student named Bill Bowers and, to be fair, he's more concerned with the problem of cheating than with the Honor System a.s a means to end it. He polled 99 schools, 5,000 students, 600 deans and 500 student-presidents. Cheating, he found, was three times as common as the campus experts thought. There was more of it in co-ed schools, in schools where sports, fraternities and social interests took precedence over scholarship, in business and engineering schools more often th~n in the humanities and liberal arts. Cheating Reported But he also found that in schools with the Honor System there was less cheating than in those without it. At least, that's what the . people who responded from them reported. The Honor System has its wide-st vogue in the South, as Bowers, Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar a Washington and Lee graduate, put it, \with its military, funda- mentalist and elitist .traditions.\ It has no vogue a1·ound here: Barn- ard has it, Columbia College is toying with it, but there isn't an- other m'Ujor college in the New York area that puts much faith in ~~. it. Arnong Ivy schools, only Princeton takes it seriously; a group Down to Louis', Jet us ~o, 'Let the lager freely flow. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 Stote and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our lfATHSKCLLER For reservations phone FR 4·8917 o4' Yale boy's sneaked in to take a Princ~ton exam as a gag, ciheated and c-ribbed flagrantly. They got turned in. Bowers insists the murderer of Kitty Genovese, under an Honor System for adults, would have been caught on the spot, but he con- cedes that, under the same system for students, \Sen. Ted Kennedy might never have been allowed to finish school.\ And that brings us back to Dumpson and the Welfare Dept. \It's amazing,\ he was telling me yeste1•day, \55 checks returned already and mm•e co-ming in. They scoffed at me when I asked the peo·ple to send them back if they weren't deserving. One elderly couple found out their sister was on relief. They put her in a nursing home, sent back our checks and even sent us $2,200 in cash they found ·in a drawer in her hoUse.'' It~~ still gro·wing, but it may 'be that 55 is not a very b<ig figure eompared to our welfare rolls. I think it is, but if you don't, \\ .. ~~-~~ ........ ,..,.~\\\ ...... ..._._._. ___ \\' __ ....., __ ._.. _ _.._do you wsnt to try an Honor System fot relief?

4 Olournr Published Fridays during the school year by the Student Body of Union College, .Schenectady, N. Y. Na- tional .Advertising Representative: Natlonal Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative. 420 l\ladiaon Ave., N. Y. C. Editorial Orflte. • Old 'G}'m, Union College. . Publ!catlon OfNce, Sche- nectady Printh\g Company, 602 Broadway. Entered In the Sche- nectady 'Post Office as Second Class ~lai·l Matter. Subscription 15c a copy: $i a year dellvered an:rwhere in the United States. >-E:'»IIlll IUI.\'Kil LAIWY l]()HOWITE. 'G:; ............... 34G-989S ~IAHK U Hl~l'Zl:';GE:H '65 ............ 016-995 9 ... . RIC'HAI\l> ARO~ '63 ..................... OIG-9848 f{ttlli•:HT 1'. III>Jo'I·'~L.\:-: ·,;,; IUI'fl.\HI> ~.q,]•\I'I·>~ 'Iii; !Ut'H.\HI> !tf.:H('H 'GG WILL!AU T. Wll'\l'\E '34 .............. .J~ditor·in·Chiel. Business ~fanager ... ~Ianaging Editor I•~t aturf'A Ed\tnr :SPWS g(}itOl' .. Sports Editor. Faeulty Advisor Dr. El~ner Tidtnarsh Meriwether (ContinuM from Page 3) or deepens our understanding of the wol'!d. This, .. .I think, is what I mean by .. much more.\ The se'l?ious artist is committed to a way of knowing arid is capable of in- sights whioh further ·•o1· deepen our undel'Standing orthe World, When onl studies tO:pology, th.: c>xcitement and the stimulation derive from the intellectual cha1- lenge. When one grasps the pos- sibilities ·of a certain theory, one g-rasps it intellectually. Philoi:hl phy is also experienced inteiie'i!t- ually. So is history. But the arts are not. When one exper1ences ::t symphony it i·s not an intellec- tual experience, but an emotional -or, as one of my more colorful professo.rs used to put it, a via- cera] understanding. One under- stands dance, .sculpture, painting a11d d:rama the same way-v:scer- • • • i:\rt. Of course, he may never be capable of articulating.;. what he ·has understood (and thus \'emain an I-know-what'-I-like-when-1-see- it amateur). But if he should be among those who not only have witnessed a work of art but also have studied that art form, then he will be doubly blessed (and thu$ a'Scend to join those-who-as- tound-thei.r-friends professionals). The reason that Union College .pays me to teach theatre and to direct plays is becalJ'Se there is. a strong academic tradition whkh supp01·ts .theatrical productions. as a ~pa.rt of academic life. UnfC>l'- tunately, the purpose for and jus- ffication of this tradition is not always recognized. On many campuses H is s.een ~ls one way to keep the students off the s•reets or out of the bushes. On still othe1•s it is seen as an altern- ative albeit minor, form of entel'- tainment for those who don't wish to attend the school dance or see the free flick. Entertainment and More ally. 1•t is only when we seek the reason for our specific experienc- ing of a specific art wo1·k that we begin to intellectualize that ex- perience. In a way, we have ai- W e would like to offer our condolences to the family l'l'ady understood and now seek to articulale what we have undel·- of Dr. Elmer Tidmarsh whose death this month ended a stood. T'his is what valid criticism in tl1e :nts is, to rne: an e:xplan- lifetime of service to Union College. He founded the De- ation of a felt experience, an at- t'\mpt •IC> articulate w.hat we have partment of music and was one of the world's highest unde 1 ·s:.;od. What purpose have I maintain that the reason for and justiiiea:tion of this tradiHon lies in the recognition of the va- lidity and worth of the educating a~d educational exposure to a sig- mficant way of knowing. I main- tain that those seekers. who. were also artists were comimtted' to a way of knowing and capable of insights which further or deepen our understanding of the world. I maintain that theatre, and the other arts, are entertainment - and much more. ranked concert organists. He will be sorely missed. · musicolt)gists and music thuorists; · art histc.rbJ.s and art critics; lit- erary historians, theo1·ists ~md critics; dramatic historians, theDr- The Road Not Taken \Two roads diverged in a wood, and I ·- I tooli: the one less traveled by And that has made all the difference\ Robert Frost ifib aiJtl CJ'itics? A lal'g~ ques- t:{•n to which 1'1·1 pose a partial answe1·: 1heit' purpose is to m·tir- ulate that which we know ·fuoug·h an. artistic.' experience. 'Variety of Disciplines If Union College is ever going to take \the road less traveled,\ now is the time. We stand at the most critical point in the school's history - Union must select a man, who along with Provost Lockwood, . will shape its future. There is general agreement that the past has been, on the whole, mediocre and in the past Union has followed the static, conservative paths of education. The future must take the school down a new path if a state of ·excellence is ever to be achieved. And this brings us to Aca- demia. A college is an education- al institution. I'U ven..tp1·~ even furthe1•: Uni(m Colleg.e is an edu- cational institution. The liberal a1'ts college is one type of an edn- rational institution. Union Col- lege i<s of th~t ve.ry type. The purpose of a ·liberal arts educa- tion is .to initiate 'the student into a variety of disciplines; lh-.~t is, to exp·•1se him to many 'ways of knowing;' to lead him to see many of the ways of understanding hi3 world. Philosophy is a uniqne and vaiuable discipline, which demonstrates the philo:;ophic manl')er of seekjng to qnderstand. the ' \V()rld. ..Physics is another. And the ·fine arts represent !:till others. The plays which The Mounte- banks will produce while I am ~ere will .be works by serious art- Ists. They will be plays which are entertaining and much more, The danger, as I see it; is that ~ur talent here is untrain.ed, ha.s little · or no exposure to the dis- cipline required to mount a pro- duction of ,professional compe- tence. On occasiOn this may lead to less ent€rtaining productions, but will never eliminate the muell nwr·e. I think that, if :vou at- tend, you will discover that th\! gains far exceed the losses. I hope you give us a try, and m.uell rno·re. Boston, Mass.- (I.P.)-M.em- bers. of Boston University's chap- ter of the Ameri~an Association ~~ University Pr~fessors recently Clscussed a pubhshed statem€J:Lt of faculty responsibility for stu- dents' academic freedom. The sta:tement. published in a recent issue of the association's Bulletin, outlines faculty responsibility for freedom of student newspapers and governments, classroom free- dom of expression for students, and freedom from unjust admin- istrative punishment. Provost Lockwood has shown himself to be a ware of the need to give the college a distinctive, central core and a direction of its own. It is imperative to find a\ President who is similarly enlightened. Thus, as is always the case when an inevitable change takes place, a spirit of optimism for the future prevails. Yet it is incongruous t'hat at a time when the future holds more promise than in many years, the present situation is hopelessly bogged down and entangled. Lockwood is swamped with work to the point where his effectiveness is severely hampered. He has enlisted the aid of Dr. Huntley to help him with some of his normal tasks - yet this is far from enough. The situation will undoubtedly be improved when a President and the two new Deans are appointed. But what of the members of the campus population who are here now - why must they have to settle for' a make-shift ad- ministrative set-up, for over-sized classes in a \small\ col- lege, for the absence of any facilities at all for Student Government, the Idol and Garnet and cramped conditions fro Concordiensis? Why must the students attend classes (at least until1967) under a calendar set-up that has been ccndemned and slated for change? While some of these difficulties can't be avoided in this hectic transition period, others can. A temporary calendar in which the first term would end before Christ- mas would. eliminate the lame duck period which proved cnce again this year to be both tedious and boring to all concerned. This could be easily accommodated to the present curriculum until the new one is devised. The college does have an obligation to its present members, no matter what it promises future generations. The simple measure outlined above would at least allevi- ate the present situation and make the wait for \Union's renaissance\ a good deal easier to bear. ·'· A Note of Thanks It is when the chips are down that one finds out who one's true friends are. Union College has -no better friend than Dr. C. William Huntley. Although he resigned as Dean of the College to free himself from the burdensome administrative processes he has graciously consented to help Provost Lockwood in this hour of the administration's need. We on Concordiensis know Dr. Huntley as one of our most trusted friends and consultants throughout the yea·rs. . For his unselfish devotion to the college he de.serves ·the thanks of the entire campus community. Not everyone possesses the in- terest ()I' the talent to study pure mathematics. Still less seEm to have the interest or talent to study tl!e drama, or music, or art. Those who, for whateve1· reason, t!<' not attempt pure mathel!~a':ics will never experience it. Hm\· much luckier he who, for what- <·ver reason, does not attempt the htudy of music or painting or drama! For he may still experi- t·nce a WOJ'k of art. All that is necessary is that he be willing to t·xpose hi.mself, honestly am! with no forrned judgment, to .a sym- phony m a landscape or a comLrly. And, if the exposure is honest, he will have understood that work (.f Fund Drive • (Continued from Page 1) mately 35 1)er cent ahead of last year at this time. For all of last year, 37 per cent of the alumni donated $140,000. or an average gift of $36.50. Almost all of this money was donated without re- tri:!tions. The College used it last year; a11d is going to continue using it for faculty salaries. Alamni Cooperation Adams expressed a feeling of cautious aptimism over these fig- ures. He stated tha the leadership campaign which ended on De- cember 31st demonstrated that the alurnni are wi!Iing to support their college and are beginning to undeTstand the importance of their gifts in the college budget. Many of the larger donors, as a result oi the program, have made their C()ntributions earlier this year than last, throwing the fig- ures off to a certain degree, mak- ing exact comparison with last year difficult. Onion College w:as one of the first colleges to develop a pro- gram of annual giving. The first driv(;) was held in 1910, and a drive has been held ever since unde1· various names. Four years ago, the Class Agent Service, now the accepted method across the country, was put into op~r­ ation. Cass Agent System The Class Agent System makes use exclusively of volunteer alum- ni The Natianal Chairman of the system is Clemens F. Hathaway, '35, Vice-President of J. Walter Thompson Company; Vice-Chair- man is John L. Hallenbeck, '36, Alentown, Pa.-(I.P.)-Muhlen- berg's first experience with a pri!- exam reading period (January 4-8), added to the normal semes- ter schedu e, deletes nothing from the regular course of study in the classroom. The program p!'O- vides the student with ·seven days of study instead of two, resulting in a more relaxed pace of study. • • Vice-President of Time, Incor- porated. Each class appoints a He~d Agent, who in turn appoints regional agents. Associate agents rre then selected by these region- ~ PI agents. All of these alumni are 'olunteers of each class who are · willing to make personal calls or; their classmates. \As a result of the program;' the alumni.,\ Adams stated \are realizing that their origin~l in. • vestment of four years in the Col- lege can be given continuing meaning by their annual support of faculty salaries. Not only does this fund go into the College for salaries, but a successful annual . fund raises the prestige of the College. Private foun<lations and corporations are impressed by a college whose annual fund has a large percentage of its alumni ex- pressing tlleir loyalty ~nnually, The donations of these institu- tions and firms to the college often depend on the amount of this participation.\ Percentage Most Significant Participation in ·the~fund drive, since the conception of the Class Agent System here at Union, has increased from 19 per cent in 1961 to .. 37 per cent in 1964. This year's stress is on further par- tic;pation, according to Adams, and not necess•arily on the amount give:J. ... , \J• For comparison with Union, Adams cited the percentage of alumni contributors~ at .colleges similar 'to Union. These figures are the fvllowing: Amherf!t-57'7r, Williams and Bowdoin-54 o/c , Wesleyan-41%, R.P.I.-23'7r, and Lafayette-1917c. Friday, Febr.uary 5~ 1965 Campus Calendar February 5-Swimming: Union v·s, Tufts 8:00 Alumni Gymnasium February 6-Swimming: (Frosh): Union Hamilton-1.':2:Q.O Alumni Gymnasium · · 'to ~~). February 9-Biology Lecture: Dean Allan BJl;dic~, Biology Lab. 201, 7:5.0 p.m. . ...... \The Effect of a Lethan Locus on Drosophila\ February 10-Student Council meeting, Hal IJouse, 7:30 February 11-Union College Young Democrats, Hale House, I1:30 A.M. February 12-Swimming: Union vs. N.Y. t'. 8:00 Field HoQse Basketball: Union vs .. Stevens 8:00 Alumni Gym- na·siurri Film Series: All Quiet On The Western Front 7 & 9 EE 22 Rathskeller: Ente1'tainment-Ja::;r;z Band 8-10 PM. February 13-Basketball (Fr.): Union vs. Wesleyan 6:15 Field • House Basketball (Vs.): Union vs. Wesleyan 8:00 Field House H,IP Wan.ted - Larry Horowitz, editor of the Concordiensis, announced that po- sitions are stilJ open to freshmen and sophor.rro.res on the pa.per. These positions are ava:Iable in the news, features, sports, and business departments. While experience is helpful, it is not necessary, as the Concordy provides on the job training. F·reshman and sophomores can expect to meet important people, learn how to write an effective article, and generally improve their literary talents. Anyone interested in joining the paper should come to the Can- !!Ordy office in Old Gym Hall on Monday or Wednesday evening at 7:30 P.M. Marlboro, Vt. - (I.P.) - For over fifteen years, despite limited fac:Iities, pure physics has been one or the s·b·engths of the Marl- boro College curriculum because of the teaching of John W. Mac- Arthur. Now, Marlboro has re- ceived a grant of $7,500 :fJ:om the Alfred P. Sloan Foundatien. The grant wm '·.be used to , purchase fOi' ·-tlie new Howard and' Amy Rice I;ibrary, under constlruetion, th~ major pol\tion · 'Of the 400 volume physics library recom- mended for small colleges by the American Institute of Physies. Facufty. • • (Continu~ from Page 1) political editor of the North American R~view and has pub- li.;:hed ntimer.ous articles in vari- ous professional journals. His specialties a~~e in the fields of 1I1temational · Affairs and Latin America. Has Taufht at Columbia Professor faule Batinic, b()rn in Yugosla.vi!!-, educp.ted there and in the Unit~d States,. is now a member of the Modern Language Departnumt. Varim,1s profes'sional honors from American and Yugo- slavian orgapizati 0 ns have been given to him, including a NDEA Language Fellowi'jhip. He has taught at th~ U.S. Army Foreign Language Training School, Coe College, and most recently at Columbia Up.ivers$ty. Professor Batinic has .professional affilia- tions with the AAHP and the Modern Language Association. Union's puplic re+ations depart- ment has been joined by R,ichard E. Adams as the dir~tor of ~lumni fund-raising :and assistant direc- tor of develppment for the col- lege. Mr. Adams received his de- gree from Wesleyan University and was Vice-President of Psi Upsilon whil'e attending college. Between the years 1962-64, Mr. Adams served in the U.S. Naval Reserve as a[l Ensign. Rt;gls REsta._. .. anl 138 Jay Street OPEN SUNDAYS 7 A. M. - 6 P. M. Special Prices For Union Students On A~L Meals - :;/)inner - • Roa\it Beef or Veal Cutlet with • Choice of Vegetables • Salad and Coffee All For $.90 Wheat Cakes with butter and syrup Coffee .45 Wheat Cakes with Bacol1': Hcr:l)'l 4 or Sayscrg'e __ .60 Coffee French Toast and Coffee --------------- .45 With Bacon, Ham, orSci'usage --- --~..::.:.: ·u60 . . \ ''·: Two Eggs (any style) Home·\'fries To9st, Coffee.45 Two Eggs {any style) Home fries, Ham, 8a(:oM, or Sausage .65 - ~ IJnionfs 13est Eatina 'm··u,Y I I Frida~ Jo Pr ·~ ~ Prof Union ment J erate 1 gram Televis pear o nights ary 10. The. Govern to info change tration: service: unhear1 dustrk renewa that tl public E-nable the cit~ ,, Jo11m mat of that of series. er will uudienc first ha maindeJ vo:ed t period. Li Six o ing to planned Lindsay guest o: tentativ er, forrr nectady Reimer, Schene:! ors, G County tady, ar the Bur< Topics \How ~ To Fun Local 0 Election \Third E StudeJ ing the sentativ1 Jonas t vddition: will soo tickets ture pro \Foru by the ' nec.tady Council ' WR 18] WRUC has incr from 9 b through has also ing. The i1 time has to provi porters five time: to Sunda fraternit~ ports ne' coverage Iiams an< ketball g Wint The st Knowled11 the Gene1 The stati ing a W Free tick Restaurat bums for ner. The< ing the i gossip wh from 12: through ~ Technic ing have tion, and clearly aJ 640 on th Po Many r staff are c ers will b fleers ind dent; Ri< president; Manager; Director; Director; Personnel Moorhe1 suits of selected a1 programs ers indica1 of preparE tification and con strengther preparatio cently cor Glaydon I cation at lege.

y 5~ 1965 Lab. __. House mni Gym- Front 8-10 PM. :15 Field Field . • • 1) the North has pub- in vari- His fields of and Latin born there and is now a Language es'sional and Yugo- have been a NDEA . He has Foreign Coe at Professor affilia- and the depart- by .R,ichard r of alumn·i · direc- the col- his de- University nt of Psi college. 62-64, Mr. Naval .45 .60 .45 ·~60 .65 Friday, February 5/1965 ' 'f il Jonas To Moderate TV Program on ·Government i ·~ I ! j .I WRUC On Air 18 Hours Daily WRUC, Union's radio station, has increased broadcasting time from 9 to 18 hours a day, Monday through Saturday. The station has also begun Sunday broadcast- ing. . The increase in broadcasting time has enabled the WRUC staff to provide extra features. Re- porters announce ski conditions five times a day, from Wednesday to Sunday, and cover intramural fraternity leagues. The staff re- ports news five times daily, and coverage of the February 16 Wil- liams and March 2 Hamilton bas- ketball games will be provided. Winter Weel•end Contest The staff hopes to produce a Knowledge Bowl, modelled after the General Electric College Bowl. The station is presently conduct- ing a Winter Weekend Contest. Free tickets, dinner at the Ritz Restaurant, and free record al- bums for his date await the win- ner. The contest consists of guess- ing the identity of the feminine gossip who can be heard on WRUC from 12:00-1:00 A.M., Monday through Thursday. Technical changes in broadcast- ing have im oroved radio recep- tion, and WRUC can be heard clearly anywhere on campus at 640 on the dial. Positions Available Many positions on the WRUC staff are open and additional help- ers will be welcomed. Present of- ficers include AI Nahmias, Presi- dent; Richard -Ferguson, Vice- president; Bob Michaels, Program Manager; AI Bange:rt, Continuity Director; Toby Olsen, Technical Director; and Hal Lambersen, Personnel Director. Moorhead, Minn.-(I.P.)-Re- sults of a nationwide study of selected aspects in the educa.tional programs for elementary teach- ers indicate support for five years of preparation for permanent cer- tification of elementary teachers and continued emp.hasis .on strengthening subject matter preparation, according to a re- cently conducted survey by Dr. Glaydon D. Ro!J.bins, dean ·Of edu- cation at Moorehead State Co- lege. (Continued from Page 1) nossibilities of life on other planets. In answer to those skep- tics who would question the enor- mity of any venture undertaken •o ec>ntact ()ther planets, Mr. Sul- livan t·eplied, \If we never start we are nevet· going to hear any- body.\ Well Rounded Further information on the topic discussed at the lecture can be found in 1\fr. Sullivan's recent book, We Are Not Alone. Mr. Sullivan beearne chief science <lditor of the New York Times in 1960. He received the George Polk Memorial Award for Jour- nalism in 1959. He i-s presently councilor to the American Geo- graphic Society and in recent years has authored such books as Quest For Knowledge and White J,and of Adventure. .Several of his books, including Assault on the Uulmown, are available at the Libra1•y. Lawrence, Kan.-(I.P.)-A new po' icy of down slips from seven University of Kansas schools and colleges and a suggested change in the date for ending formal classes at the close of the <,~pring semester in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences was announced here recently by Jerry Lewis, as- sistant dean of the college. RITZ REST AU RANT 1725 Van Vranlcen Avenue Featuring - HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS; SEAFOODS - Catering To Small & Large Parties Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving ~chenectady. Q-.:er 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week Gati Gets Doctorate 5 · ' ~ oviet . Union and- in East-cenh'al · Europe and also in international · l'C'lations with a specialty in in- 1 tl:\rnationul organizations. Thesis Approved

POLL RESULTS NEXT WEEK Concordy Sports POLL RESULTS NEXT WEI;K ', Beaudry To Leave; Accepts Hobart Post After coaching soccer, swimming and tennis at Union for two years, Robert E. Beaudry will be leaving to assume a position at Hobart College. When Beaudry came to Union last year, after building an outstanding swimming team at Hamilton College in his three years there, his coaching dutieswere to involve only soccer and swimming. Finding himself without a tennis mentor, Director of Athletics, Wilford H. Ketz asked Beaudry to take over that position in addition to his other chores. Hobart has never competed in·~ inte1·coHegiate swimming, but in' a move toward this goal it has constructed a new pool which wou.Jd he the delight of any coach. At Hobart, Beaudry will coach. soccer and swimming. The fewer I coa~hir1g chores that will enable him to devote more time to his specialty, swimming, and the higher rank in the athletic de- partmoent he will have are among the reasons for Beaudry's decis- ion to acrept the position at the Geneva school. Replacement Sought K etz statPrl that a replacement for Beaudry will not be announc- ed for at least six to eight weeks. The reason for this delay is the possible expans:on of the athletic department. Ketz has requested that his staff be expanded by one; aml. until it has been decided whether or not the funds are :wailable for such a move, the choice of new men must l>e post- poned. If only one man, the re- placement for Beaudry, is hired, his ~x:perience must Lie in swim- ming. If an extra man is con- tracted, Ketz has planned a slight shirt in coaching duties that will tend toward two sports per coach instead of three. At the present time Ketz has about ten applica- tions for Beaudry's position. Beaudry will complete his coaching duties this term. To date his swimming team's record stands at 2-2. Last year the mer- men were 8-2 and Beaudry's soc- cer and tennis squads were each 4-5. B.eaudry is a native of Cortiand, who graduated from Cortland Coach Robert E. Beaudry High in 1951. He then entered the Navy for four years where he was a member of the Navy All- Star swimming team while he was serving on the U .S.S. Hornet. After his tour of duty he entered Cortland State Teachers College where he starred in swimming and track. Beaudry's first position was at Hamilton. His swimming teams there compiled a 21-4 record, capped by a 9-0 season in 1962. In 1963, Beaudry received a mas- ters degree at the University of Indiana. Swimmers Tufts, Host Hamilton, In Weekend Meets By Gary Van Graafeiland ~·>-------------- Th~ Unio? College sw.imm.ers, I where we need him; a very im- spo.rtlng a. 2-2 rec?rd, d1ve mto portant man on the team;\ and achon tomght ag;amst Tufts at I Jim Mogal, \improving doing a 8:00 .PM, and agam tomorrow vs.' nice job.\ Also mentioned by the Hamilton at 2:00 PM. Both are 1 1 coach were Phil Evans, Paul home meets. Shields, and Dick Siers. ~~1 January 9th, the Dutchmen Next Wednesday, the team tra~eled to Ro~hester and defeat- travels to Vermont University for e~ the .YellowJackets 51-;JA. :Both a meet, and is home next Friday D1clc S1ers a!Jd P.aul Sh1eld3: set at 3:3() PM to face NYU. NYU is p~ol reco.rds 111 ~his me~t, Shlelds especially tough, so this should wtth. a .t1!lle of 2:15.5 m the ,200 be a good moe t. yd. mdtvtdual medley, and S1ers e with a 2:14.6 clocking in the 200 The Freshmen defeated Roches- yd. backstroke. Shield·s' record ter 57-37 and lost a squeaker to time was even more amazing in Wesleyan 49-45. When they meet that he had just competed in, and a very strong Hamilton squad to- won, the 50 yd. freestyle, a tax- m01·row at 3:00 PM, they will be ing event. Other Union winners without the services of Dick Cor• were Bill Schauer in the 100 yd. rigan, who recently underwent a and 200 yd. freestyles, Chris Cas- Hernia operation. sels in the diving, Phil Evans in Both students and faculty are the 500 yd. free, and a relay team encouraged to attend the two up- consisting of Shields, Schauer, ccming home meets. Dave Rowe, and Evans in the 400 yd. freestyle. Four days later, the team lost to Wesleyan 59-36. Union win- ners were Schauer in the 200 yd. free, Snields in the 200 yd. indi- vidual medley and 100 yd. free, Cassels in the diving, and, again, a relay team, composed this time of Evans, Shields, George Papan- icoLaou, and Schauer, in the 400 yd. freestyle. Shields' time of 2:16.1 in the 200 yd. individual medley was a pool record. Portland, Ore.-(I.P.)-Fewer courses at a time but greater concentration of study in each will be proposed to the Povtland State CoLege curriculum committee by Marko Haggard, associate profes- sm· of politieal science. He thinks students take too many courses at oncoe and he would like to see the college move toward four or five-hour courses. Coach Beaudry had words of prajse for several men: Cassels, diving winner in 3 meets, who placed first against Wesleyan, Concordiensis will publish the winning by .8 of a point; Jim results of the Course Evaluation Garrison, \fitting in any place Poll ilt next 'veek's issue. The GALLEY 1735 VanVranken Avenue Phone 346-1251 LARGEST IN TOWN lSc HAMBURGER HOT DOGS 15c (with meat sauce 19c FISH FRYS ----------------------20c French Fries _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 12G Thick Shakes ___________________ 20c Pizza and Dinners To Take Out! Cagers·To Travel South; Battle D~ew~. Kings Point By Eric Singer ') Ti111e Out: . , Two Kinds of Heins By Rielly Resch With the sta.rt of the new semester, and their season a little less than half over,. the Union College cagers find themselves with an L-----------------------------1 impressive 6-3 won-lost ·record, following a pre-intersession victory ove1· Ham:Iton and defe2t at the hands of Trinity. . The first of New York's major month after he failed to win his Against Hamilton the Garnet shot very well, as did Hamilton. track meets was held last week third consecut:ve MElrose meet In spite of making several mistakes, however, in the opinion of their at M·ad:isoh Square Garden and last year. coach, the Dutchmen outplayed their opponents, defeating them by· in a very broad sense Union Col-, The world's indoor record is some fifteen P?ints. It was an e:r;t:rely different caise against Trinity, lege was represented. Competing held by Penitti Nikula of Finland. however. Playmg- good .ball agamst a very strong squad, the Garnet hi event number one of the Wana- He vaulted 16 fe~t 8% inches on was in the game at ha:lf-time, trailing by only four points. With the maker Millrose Games, the pole Pebruary 2, 1963. 'J start of the second half, however, the Dutchmen sud~•nly lost .their. vault, was 1\fel Hein, ;Jr. Rein is The only coHege represented in shooting touch. Goin.g scoreless for a period of several minutes the son of an ex- Union College the Millrose Games that is found while their opponents were scoring left and l'ight, the Garnet swiftly on the schedules of most of Un- fell behind. By .the time Union finally was able to start hitting with ion's teams was Williams. The any kind of efficiency, ifrinity led by twenty-five points, and the Massachusetts team found itself 'l game wa.s virtu~lly out of ·!'each. The cagers did manage to narrow: cr.mpeting against Farleigh Dick- the deficlt to thirteen by the end of the game, but this was enough · · inson University, Eoston Univer- to send them to their third loss of the season. sity, St. Joseph's College, and Play Drew Today Providence College in a one mile ' • Today the cagers find themselves facing Drew, at Madison, N.J., relay. As was to he expected Wil- and tomorrow they will play Kings Point, also an away game. Both Hams was outcla;ssed by these games should be tough, although Kings Point appears to be the. larger schools. really hard one. The Dutchmen v.·ill be facing a team that has four times scored over one hundred points this season, and who recently defeated Marist by the impl'essive score of 123-41. In addition to this, the Union squad will .be playing with less than a full day's rest. It j should be. rememb~red, however, that the Dutc~men are averaging . 1 close to e1ghty po.nts a game them·selves. It 1s also unusual that. such a high scm<ing tffim has a tight defense. Both teams employ a full-court press from the start, and both use the same basic defense. The game should be a 1•eally fine one. Very impressive so far have been Ron Giancola and Gary Brown, who lead the tea1n in average points per game with 15.9 and 15.2 re- · spectively. In addition, Giancola has hit for the most points in a single game thus :far this year. The entire team has a shooting per-· centage from the floor ot\ 48.8'/c, although the squad is weak from· the free thrm\,' line. · ~lei Hein, Jr. and Father :;: * Dave Volkman. last spring's . Concordy S.ports Editor who is · .:;pending his junior year in Zurich, , 1 Swiberland, scored 14 points for . his intramural basketball team. His team lost 41-16. 'I Two records have recently been set on the pin baH machine in the Rathskeller. A point total of 10,576 was rolled up and another '' With ten games remaining on the schedule, Coach Evens, usually pessimistic about the team's chances, gives the Garnet a good · player added ten extra balls to the standard number of five. Both marks were reached by freshman. shot at winning ·six of them. With extra hustle, and a couple of ·head football coach, Mel Hein, Sr. good breaks, this year's team could become one of Union's finest. , The elder Mr. Rein, incidently, was an excellent center for sev- · * * I \) r Basketball Statistics - 9 Games ~ ~ Player .\ll G in.ncola ............ 9 Brown .... \'\ ...... 9 Ka~per ............. 9 Olson ........•.. 9 55 50 :.5 50 54.5. 43.1 49.1 52.1 33 37 25 23 t .. 51.6 77.1 75.8 ;;4.8 88 39 41 78 ... .. 24 24 34 28 .;, ~ 15.9 1:i.2 1:..o 13.6 eral seasons with the New York To Coac4. El Evans' delight, Giants. sophomore Bill Boehm is eligible The younger Mel Hein, not only to play basketball this semester. '>l compe~ed in the jole vault, but, At six feet-five inches Boehm will won the event going· over the bar add the much needed height to a\. 16 feet. It was the second time Lnion's cagers. Boehm will not in a v.eek that he had cleared 16 · be an immediate asset to the feet. Rein, competing for the squad because it will take several <} Southern California Striders, de- weeks for him to learn plays and feated such outstanding names as the moves of his teammates. John Uelses of La Salle College, Rudolph Tomasek of Szechoslo- vakia, and Henry Wadsworth of · the _Western Kentucky Track Club. Block. \U\ l\rhelis 4 27 :;;;.1 8 42.1 37 12 15.5 Rein Attempts Record There will be an important meeting of the Block U Society 'l on Tuesday, February 9 at 11:30 AM in Bailey Hall 304. New members are eS!I~ially urged to :~ttend. Pesltin •.....•..•.•. 9 20 41.7 15 51.7 31 20 6 3 6.1 Rein attempted to break the Dym . , ......•.....• R 5 45.5 6 Hutchinson . , •. , . , .• 8 4 0 42.9 23 10 Millrose Games record of 16 feet 6.1 1 inch, set by Uelses on Febru- ary 1, 1963, but was unable to l.O make the grade. Uelses h<'Jlds the Thomas Owen Morgan, 'J Mac'klnnon .......... 6 2 50.0 3 75.0 3 1. 2 American indoor record of 16 foeet 41;~ jp~hes wh!~h he set about a Secretary. Schmidt ............ 5 Fabian ~iorris 7 4 Goldberg ........... r. 'i't\am Hebounds: 60. 3 0 0 (l Union Totals .•. , • , , • 2il Opp. Totals ......... 9, 275 7a.o 5 0 48.2 159 43.4 1·26 50.0' 0 4 71.4 3 i5.0 5~.8 420 165 64.3 407 199 1.'4 77.9 i ~- 1 I •·•· I Recnrd: 6-3: l'nlon 83, ::\llddl<obury 68; Union 73, :-<orwich 62; Union S4, RPI 78; ·union 7~. Hal'P ur 73; Alfreu 86, Cniun 70; Cnion i2. St. Law- rence 58; Kenyotl. i7. Union 63; l'nion. 9·:i, Hamilton 80; Trinity 94, Union 81. Organized Sports At Union The history of organized sports at Union'· dates back to the mid- 19th century. One of the first recorded contests was a -baseball game wtih a local nine in 1S60. In the seventies Union crews raced Harvard, Yale. and Columbia in intercollegiate regattas on Saratoga Lake. Football was later starting, games with Albany Medical Col- lege and RPI in 1886 being the first intercollegiate . contests. The following decade, howe-ver, saw Union facing some of the strongest competition in tll.e sport. Until Charles H. Kilpatrick, '98, became a world's champion miler two years after entering Union, the eligibility of players for differ- ent teams was not taken too seriously. When Kilpatrick transferred to Princeton with impressive financial' aid offered by some enthusi- astic supporters of Old Nassau, the aftermath of the national uproar that the transfer created, led to the rule that an athlete must spend at least one year in a college b~fore he could represent. it on the field. Cle-an Clothes Last Longer!. (2 OR MORE) SHIRTS 20c SUITS -------98c PANTS ------49c Dambrose PANTS 49c .JACKETS -----49c SWEATERS ---49e Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5193 Just Around the Corner from Mohcawk National Ba~k Wanna rock the boat?· I} I) Here's your chance. Pru's looking for people for important administrative, sales, accouRting and actuarial careers. We want graduates who like to win. Those who can hang in there till t~e job is finished. . . You'll get training, benefits and a good starting salary. f) More important, there's room at the top for top-notchers ... all the responsibility you can handle ... and more interesting problems than you ever thought existed. We expect you to make waves-and you can make some pretty big ones in one of the nation's best-known corporations. · Still wanna rock the boat? See the Prudential Recruiter. He'll be ~· at the Placement Office on MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15 T.HE PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE COMPANY OF AMERICA tJ an equal opportunity employer Vol . 1 1' F~ ne the las; Th 11. af the first se are un consult f experie In provide for lee profes·s be mad ure by Se' There , and thi Th to list met. E: best sc Ability No name, • \ jokes v ,, An lar sur Ivy Le~ origina Lock we made I It choosin their fe instead Th ion, cer lasting the pol structh Fac \ Ext Dr<J The a propo .• cxtendi1 dents f. out pen of th~? ( plained a stude1 \·as rec weeks t accept .course. l. A pr mittee Decemb .,1 of this full qul that fo student become This fe increasi submitt student: ., request alty so drop pee is Marc .n quarter OPP for a n who w busines portant organiz I• Cally SO For formati work, ~ ice to 1 •·· Studen1 Februa

') ., win his meet 'I; is on 'J· in is found of Un- ms. The itself ') Dick- Univer- and one mile '' Wil- by these spring's who is in Zurich, , 1 for team. ntly been in total of ') another 1 ' balls to Both delight, s eligible semester. 'll will to will not to the several '>! plays and i) Society •1 at 11:30 New urged to organ, •J I} fJ ,.~T We in 0 (J Ill ~ He'll be fJ' 1 , i ~ ,, Vol. 94- No. 14 SCHENECTAriY, N. Y., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12; 1965 PRICE lS tENTS Dr. Harold C. :.Martin Nantea New Union College President DR. HAROLD C. MARTIN Student Council Analyse~ Defeat Of Hon,or System ·~ TenureBegins 1 Next Autumn Formerly Held CEEB Position Dr. Harold C. Martin, 48, of Cambridge, Mass., has ; been selected as the 14th I President of Union. College. He will succeed Carter I Davidson, who resigned to 1 become president of the As- sociation of American Col- leges. Announcement of Dr. Martin's selection was made Thursday by Meade Brunet of New York City, I Chairman of the College's Boa1d of Truste3s and Acting President of the College. The new pres:dEnt will be inaugurated next fall. In a telephone interview, Dr. Martin stated that he was \de- lighted and proud to be coming to Union College. This is a college with a great history, a solid foun- dation and a really promising fu- ture among the small mens' col- leges in the East,\ he said. Dr. Martin, a native of Ray- mond, Pa., is a Lecturer in Com- parative Litemture at Harvard. Nationally known as a leader in the reform of English instruction, he was Chairman ()f the College Entrance Examination Board's Comission on English from 1959 tG 1964. He is currently. vice pres- ident of the Council _ for the Humanities. He was secretary of the English Institute from 1958 to 1963. A 1937 graduate of Hartwick College in Oneonta, N.Y., he took h:s master's degree at the Univer- sity of Michigan in 1942 and his doctorate in comparative litera- ture at Harvard in 1954. Dr. Martin taught at second· ary schools in Adams and Goshen, New York, and in Hailibr:dge, Md., before joining the Harva1'd faculty as a teaching fellow in 1950. In 1951 he became director of G.enerai Education A, a portion of Harvard's famed general edu- cation program, and in 1:954 be- came a lecturer. During the spring -of 1964 he was Visiting Professor of English at \o/ashington University i~l, ~t. Lnurs. At Harvard Dr. :Martm has also served as Master of North House at Radcliffe and as a member of the Board of Fresh- man Advisors, the Committee on Admissions and Scholarships, and the Admin:strative Board for the Master of Arts in Teaching Pro- gram. From 1951 to 1964 he was chairman of the Fulbright (Continued on Page 5) i.

2 Friday, February 12, 1965 Faculty Column: Asian Scene: Student Honor Mess In Vietnam By Prof. :Sorman Johnson By Alon Jeffrey Let's not be in a hurry about burying the hope for an honor code The occurrences in Vietnam this past week have finally de- 1 in Union College. As this newspaper has pointed out, the d('feat of lineated the positions taken by the United States and Communist the proposition by student vote probably reflects first of all the po- China. If we recall the Gulf of Tonkin crisis la·st year anq the Con- tent influence of the fiasco at the Air Force Academy, where the gressional Resolution which it prompted, we remember that \The system in use is very different from anything we have considered United State·s regards as vital to its national interest and t(l world i for Union College. The mod~st plan which several of us on the peace, the maintenance of in~ernational paace and security in South- i. faculty at·e employing on an experimental basis demands nothing east Asia.\ As a result of United States retaliation for Vietcong as- more than a unanimous secret ballet in favor of putting eve1·y mem- saults against the Pleiku area, Communist China has also: qeclared ber of a given course on hi's honor and obligating him to let his that her national interests are vitally affec·ted by military action in 1 instructor know if he has reason to believe that the system is being Southeast Asia. In fact, the Communist Chinese maintaifl.ed that : violated: no names are to be mentioned. This is not the only .plan we \Aggresion by the United States against the Democratic Republic could consider, but neither is the Academy's system the only possible of Vietnam means ag·gression against China.\ ty.pe available. It is obviou·s that no honor code can succeed without The Union College AFROTC Dr;JI Team. These two statements present the crux of the whole \mess\ the strong support of the students, but it is equaUy obvious that we ., in Vietnam. No longer need statements be couched in meaningless ought not to allow ourselves to be diverted from our quest of a terms such as the \claws of U.S. imperialism\ or \freedom\ for the feasible plan by the failure of the Academy to create an atmosphere A F~ o TC p· · Vietnamese peoples \to work out their o·wn destinies in their own of honor in a short life of several years. · · 'II,ADha.....,...ns I way.\ This is ·simply not what is at stake. On the contrary, the na- Campus Demands Respect . 1 ~ .P 1 t;..' · tiona! interests of two .powerful nations are pitted against each other. After twelve year's on this campus, I feel considerable 1·espect Of • · Having realized that the secm·it~r and influence of Communist for the practical idealism that governs the life of our college com- ~ ~,., ce ........ ~ Of Fu t u re China and the United States are the only things involved, we must munity. For instance, our Campus Chest maintains an Emergency J • I ., . consider just why that small segment of Southeast Asia is \vital\ Loan Fund from which a student may borrow a small sum for a ft.. to United State's interes•ts. More importantly, though, we must de- short time without interest. Never have we lost a cent by these By l\lark Kasowitz I ed at the Nott Street gate, at the termine just how \vital\ this area. is and whether or not the resources loans, though they have been numerous, and only once have we had Ninety Union College students cost of $13,000 for use as ROTC used there could be better spent elsewhere. Specifically, just how to remind a student that hi:s repayment of the loan was overdue. are presently enrolled in the Air headquarters. Previous to this, ''vital\ is this area? · One man who had borrowed a small sum for a week or two I'etumed Force Reserve Officers Training lhe corps had been housed in a Quite obviously South Vietnam is not a democracy. It cannot be it ahead of time With an additional ten dollar cont1•ibution to the fund. Corps. The purpose of their en- Language Building-type shack, argued that the life of a democracy is threatened, thus necessitating So much for the question as to whether we have reason for hop- listment is supposedly to gain a out the need for a more suitable. U.S. aid to maintain its viabHity. The collapse of South Vietnam ing that Union College could develop a workable honor code. commi.~ison as second Lieutenant structure was pressing enough for would, however, seriously threaten the existence of such viable de- Alleged Apathy in the Air Force upon graduation funds to be ali~tted for th~ pur- mo.cratic states as Malay,sia, Japan, and even ~ustra1i~-New Zealand. Some of our alumni, returning to the campus, complain of an from College. 'l'hey have chosen pose of renovatmg the previOusly It IS well known that Laos, as well as North VIetnam, IS under strong alleged apathy toward anything beyond grade-grubbing among the this path for a variety of rea- unused structure. As far as the Chinese Communist influence. Similarly, Cambodia has now ~ppatent­ grinds or goofing off among the .playboys. There is something of sons, ranging from a real desire ~acilities now ~re concet•ned, Ma- ly opted for alignment. with. the Chines~ Commu!lists. Since Indonesia both among us. But there are also students who, with little if any to serve as officers to an inbred JOr Bruce Ferl'ler feels that they has severed all her ties With the Umted Natwns and moved well reward, successfully pmmote the Campus Chest, which supportl5 the feeling for flight. are quite adequate in the:nselves, within the Chinese C~mmunists orb~t, there are ~ew stat~ not aligned Emergency Loan Fund for our own campus, the World University Each fall, an average of eighty but regrets that the location is so or $Omewhat subservient to the Chmese Comumsts. Thailand, ~me of Service for students in depressed areas, the National Scholarship entering Freshmen (67 this year) d~centralized. He hopes some- those :pro-Western s!ates, has now b~come. the t!'lrget, accordmg .to Fund for Negro students in integrated colleges, the United Negro sign up f(}r ROTC. By se:::ond se- time in the future to move ROTC's the Chmese Comm~msts, of a new natiOnal. hbe;atwn front. ~alays1a, College Fund for Southern states, and a Greek orphan girl whose mester only a select group has headquarters closer to the major as we well know, rs bele.aguered by .a hostile giant, Indonesia. support the Campus Chest shares with the IFC. Every spring Union remained in the blue uniform of sources of activity on the campus. Collapse of Mal~ys1a and Thmi::nd wou}d red~.ce the .area for College men volunteer to help with the b<?o~ collection. and the cloth- the Air Force. The reasons for The ROTC program has been Western m~noeuver m. Southeast A.s1a, and 1~ 'Yould ~ffecttvely cut i ing drive sponsored by the Campus Rehgious Coune1L By the end dropping out are far more nu- ::-ltered recently by the addition off the Indian sub-c<;mtment from the east. Similarly, It w~uld pose of the first year of the Peace Corps, niD;e Unio~ College men were merous than the original reasons of a two-year upperclass course a threat to A;ustraha and New Zealand. Consequently, .asrde fi·om in the field with the Corps, and we have httle notwn as to how m.any for enrollment. The most impor- of study to the regular four year the many platltu.des u~tered about freedom from communist tyran_ny, a1•e now participatin~ in thi~ spectacu~arly successful :D?-OVement fo1· tant of these is probably the stu- prog·ram. The major advantage the Western nations si;nply c~nn~t allow the. collap~e of South Vret- the improvement of mternatlo!lal relatwn:;. qne reason for the ready dent's disappointment in the gen- cf the two-year scheme is that it na~. If, then, South Vtetnam 1~ VItal to ~he mterests of the. Western response of our students to this opportum.ty I~ that fror many years, eral ROTC program. gives the opportunity to transfer nations,, how far should we go m preservmg some f?othold m Sout~- long before the federal government had mstltuted the Peace Corps, 23 Commissioned students to partake in ROTC. The east Asia? There can .be on~ an? only one ~oncluswn; as fa~· as ts the Christian As'sociation of Union College had been using vespet• However, in Julie 1964 , twenty- two year program actually is no necessary. ~f Co~!llumst Chma IS so comm1tte4 to North VIetnam 1 service offerings to subsidize the participation o-_f our s~udents in ~he three graduating seniors accepted different from the Junior and Sen- that she WI! I considei~ an,~~tac.k upon ~hat regime an attack upon overseas work camps sponsored by the Amencan Friends SerVIce her the Umted State:s must d1aw the lme at the 17th parallel and , Committee and the World Council of Churches. Every summer three commissions as second Lieuten- ior years of the four year course. • . . . . · . . . , , or more men have gone from this campus into thes~ work camps to ants, either in the active Air The cadet must go through six heavily commit hmself 1 ~ that area. Where guerilla mfiltration en- ! labor with students from many lands on useful projects such as the Force, o~· as members of the ac- weeks of sumer camp before he dangers. reasonable security, attacks such as those on Danang should l, H · W'th' th th tive Reserve, while they contin- makes his final commitment to be conti;nued. . . . . , Austrian refugee centers for ungartans. I m a mon now . e ued thei\r studi'es . grad ate continue in the l·ns·t two years of . In hght of the possibility o.f attack;s agamst North. VIenamese three men who worked in ~h.ese over~eas camps .last summer Will h 1 Th f .m. b ':1 ROTC t · . ,.. ft h' h h terntory, the next move clearly would belong to the Chmese Com- select those who are to participate dun~g.the eommg s~mer. Any sc 00 s. ere ore, It IS 0 ,v;.ous rammg, a er w .IC .e muni'sts. Should the Chinese retaliate with attacks against South student, regardless of his religious affihat!O!J. or lack of It, can com- t~at man~ do ~ot become disillu- can!lot back down f;om ,his obh- Vietnam, the lines of battle would be drawn in a type of war more pete for a $300 grant toward his e~pense~ m a work c~~P· All ~e s1~ned with, discourag.ed b~, or ga~wn, unless he. fails either t~e amenable to the s·uperiority which the U.S. has in firepower. On the ! has to do is to fill out a form av:;ulable. m t~e Chaplam s 9ffice m 1 reJecte~ from the promised ngors written or phy.sical tes~s, or IS other hand, if the Chinese Communists do not retaliate, the U.S. Silliman Hall and thus to gain an mterv1ew wtth the sct:eemng .com- of the life of an Air Force officer. deemed otherwise unsmtable to could· then vrobably maintain a position of relative strength on the mittee. Such activities as these I have enum~rated g1v~ proof of What does the Union College become an officer. peninsula. SOilJ.ething very different from the apathy of which the Umon College: ROTC have t.o offer the student Curriculum Revision ~::;:::;::~;:::;::;:::;:;;:;;:::;::;:::;:;:::;;::;:;::;:;;:;;::;:;::;::;::;:;;;=:;::::;:::;:~;:::;::;:~M ~ student ia sometimes accused. · 1' and the college? For the person Captain }tobert Robinson is ~ \''\ Parting Reminder interested in the military, it is an currently in the process of revis- But before s1gnmg off, let me remind you of another annual assurance of a position of respon- ing the academic curriculum of event which the Campus Religious Council has s~onsored for six s:bility when he is called to serve. the corps in order to make it years and whi<:h will need ·the help of twenty Unwn College men He has had the advantage of up more \intellectually stimulating\ before the end of the current month. This is the Inter-Faith Youth to four years of pre-induction for both the students and the pro- Rally at which we bring to the campus several hundred high school training in the military arts, pl11s fessors. He hopes to strengthen boys and girls t~ hear a d!s~ingu~shed Jewi'sh o~· Christian .speak~r a thorough introduction to ·the the corpsmen's ability to commun- deal with an ethical or religious Issue and to discuss that Issue Ill life he has chosen for himself. icate the subject matter and to Att: ALL UNION MEN Re: SUNDAY BRUNCH ~ I I r twenty small croups, each of which is led by a high school pupil. The Beginning in his Junior year, the give the fledgling officer more ex- PI W C 11 D R college men serve as \resource persons\ in these discussjon groups. ROTC cadet receives a commis- perience in leadership and man- .. ace: est 0 ege ining OO'ln. Any student who would like to assist in this way at the Inter-Faith sion for partaking in the program agement, the responsibilities I ~ Youth Rally on Sunday afternoon, February 28, may sign up wi~h and becomes eligi-ble for special which he will face when he as- 1 ;/·.1 me during office hours in Silliman Hall. These resource persons will scholarships to help him through sumes his commission. The cours3, Time: 11: 0 Q - 12:3 0 receive a thorough briefing before the event. graduate school. By this time, will be set up to give ·students h i I (Continued on Page 4) however, he must have demon- each higher class more and mcr3 1 strated his willingness to spend personal responsibility. ' \''\ ! Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing in Italian • American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. The GALLEY 1735 VanVranken Avenue Phone 346-1251 LARGEST IN TOWN lSc HAMBURGER HOT DOGS 15c (with meat sauce 19c FISH FRYS ___________ - ____ ---- __ 20c French Fries ____ - ____ -- - ___ - --- - 12c Thick Shakes ___ - ____ -- ____ - --- - 20c Pizza and Dinners To Take Out! • Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily --- SNACK BAR ON PREMISES some time in an Air Force uni- There are seven members of th ~ J \'~;;:;:;; l form. For the typical college stu- Air Force stationed at Union Col- · dent, among whose reasons for ege, four officers and three en- . St;nt;t::a Laundromat keepin6 his index up is keeping listed men. They are enthusiastic · , . his deferment intact, ROTC has in their jobs and .. .::are no,t overly 1585 V V k A (2 bl k f N S ) 1 little to offer. As far as the col- ~liscouraged by the fact that less an ran en ve. oc 5 rom ott t. i lege is concerned, ROTC per- and less Freshmen are joining the SELF SERVICE . , .'.: forms an obviously necessary corps, noting that the downward 2 5 1'0 .l service: it raises and lowers the ~rend is nationwide and obviously . ( WASH - .· · ( DRY United States Flag in front of r<>sulting from the fact that mar- . Library Field. Also, on the credit rie·l students are no longer draft- side is the fact that the cost to <tble, and of the draft-ending talk Union is almost negligible, ap- so predominant during the sum- proximately $4,000 yearly. er. As far as they are concern- New Headquarters cd, ROTC is fulfilling its goal of Two years ago the college re-1 providing second Lieutenants for habilitated Hoadley House, locat- ~h' United States Air Force. ! ' RITZ REST AU RANT -' •1 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring - HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties - Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week ....... 9. v. y +'' ••• y ••••••••• ·~ y. y 'P' • f'. y. ¥' ••• DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room J • ,:,~~ Fine Food and Legal Beverages ,, 118. 120 JAY STREET PROFESSIONAL SERVICES LAU\DRY - SHIRTS - CHINO'S DRY CLEANING .uone Call Will Do It All\ - SALE - Winter Jackets 20<1o off . CAMPUS BOOKSTORE SENIORS! Have You Ordered A Ring? - Do So Now! Delivery Takes About Seven Days friday, Feb ALL wmcH: MAY DO OFFICE~ The formula: their prof preparatic those not below repl category ThosE returns ai Perce l. o~ 40a .. .. l.D. 3-1:1 ... . Depal\lment Eng. 2M. l T. 1 Eng. lOa M M T. T. Eng. lla M Eng. 12a M Eng 15a T. Eng. 18a M Eng. 19a M Eng. 24a T Eng. -25a M Eng. 50a M Eng BOa ... Eng. 90a T Department French Fr. laM. 2 Fr. laT. ll Fr. lOaM. Fr. lOa 'i'. ~ Fr. lOb M. Fr. lOb M. Fr. 21M. 1 Fr. 30a T.' German Ger. laT. Ger. laM. Ger. laM. Ger. laT. Ger. 3a M. Ger. lOaM. Ger. lOa T. Ger. lOaM. Ger. lOa T. Ger. 13a M. G~r. 20a T. Ger. 21M. Spanish Sp. laM. 2 Sp. 3a M.' Sp. lOaM. Sp. lOa T. Sp. lOa T. Sp. 21M.: Russian Rus. laM. Rus. lOa M Chinese Chi. lOa l\1. Oepartmeu Greek Grk. laM. Grk. lla M General Ht Hnm. laT. Hum.14a ~ Art Art. 20M. Art. 23a M Art. 23a W 801 TRO' FRIDl $2.00 ' $: SIT-DOW\ TIC Tl Ml 73 ' 1 ' 51 SCtl

12, 1965 on Jeffrey finally de- 1 Communist the Con- that \The to wol-Id ; in South- i. as- . , qeclared action in that Republic \mess\ for the their own r the na- i other. we must is \vital\ must de- resources ju_st how cannot be Vietnam viable de- l Zealand. der strong ;tpparent- Indonesia well aligned one of to Malaysia, area for cut pose side from tyranny, Viet- Western in South- far as is Vietnam 1 upon and, en- should y .. ' l ··~ I ~ ~. ~ friday, February 12; 1965 3 Results Of Student Course EValuation ALL STUDENTS INTERESTED IN FINDING OUT WIDCH PROFESSORS TAUGHT WmCH SECTIONS MAY DO SO BY INQUIRING AT THE REGISTRARS OFFICE. Prep. for lecture Music Mu. lOa M. 9:30 ...................... .. Mu. 23a M. W. 1:10 .............. .. 3.7 4.0 DIVIRION II The poll was conducted according to the following formula: Students were ased to rate the performance of History their professtrs on a scale from 1-5 in three .categories- Hist. 10a s. 8: 30 .................. . preparation or class, lecturing ability, value of course for Hist. lOa s. 10:30 .................... . those not majoring in that area. The figures that appear Hist. l:Oa 'l'h. 10:30 ................ .. 3.8 3.8 3.2 3.8 3.7 4.0 3.7 4.2 4.5 3.8 4.1 4.3 4.0 3.9 4.3 4.5 4.3 below represent the average of all values submitted in each H!st. lOa F. 10:30 .. . .... ······ category for each section. I H!st lOa F. 11:~0 .............. ··· ··· Those courses that ,received only the barest minimum ~::~· 1 ~~a T1~·/3~ 0 .. :::::::::::::::::::: returns are not included in the listings. Hist. lOa F. 1:30 ................. . Percentage of Student Body represent. e. d-68%. li H!st. lOa F. ~p~cial ............... .. H1st. 20a M. 10.30 .................. .. Prep. for lecture Ability Course Value !fist. 21a T. 9:30 ..................... . J. D~ 40a ...................................... 3.2 2.0 1.7 Hist. 33a M. 11:30 .................. .. l.D. 3-b ...................................... 4.5 3.5 2.5 Hist. 35a M. 8:30 .................... .. Hist 36a T. Th. 1:30 ............... . Department of English DIVISION I .flist. 38a T. 9:30 ..................... . PreJJ. for lecture Ability 1.8 2.5 2.3 3.8 2.7 2.2 3.8 3.1 5.0 4.5 3.5 3.0 3.4 4.0 4.8 4.3 Course Value 2.6 Eng. 2 M. 11:30 ........................ 1.4 T. 10:30 ........................ 2.2 Eng. lOa M. W. 10.30 .............. 2,6 M. W. 11:30 .............. 3;8 T. Th. !J:30 .............. 2.4 T. Th. 10:30 ............ 2.3 Eng. 11a M. 10:30 .................... 3.3 Eng. 12a M. 9:30 (2 sees.)...... 3.5 Eng l5a T. Th. 2:30 .................. 4.0 Eng. 18a M. 11:30 .................... 4.7 Eng. 19a M. W. 2:30 ................ 3.0 Eng. 24a T. 9:30 ............. ........ 3.0 Eng. ·25a M. 8:30 ........... 4.8 Eng. 50a M. 9:30 ...................... 3.3 Eng 80a ...................................... 4.8 Eng. 90a Th. 4:00 .................... 4.0 Department of Modern Languages and Literatures French Fr. 1a M. 2:30 ........................... . Fr. 1a T. 10:30 ........................ .. Fr. lOa M. 9:30 ...................... .. Fr. lOa T. 9:30 ........................ .. Fr. lOb M. 8:30 ........................ .. Fr. lOb M. 11:30 ..................... . Fr. 21 M. 10:30 ......................... . Fr. 30a T. Th. 2:30 ............... .. German Ger. la T. 9:30 ......................... . Ger. laM. 11:30 (2 sees.) ....... . Ger. laM. 2:30 ........................ .. (}er. la T. 10:30 ....................... . Ger. 3a M. 3:30 ........................ .. Ger. lOaM. 8:30 ...................... .. Ger. lOa T. 10:30 .................... .. Ger. lOa M. 10:30 .................... .. Ger. lOa T. 8:30 ....................... . Ger. 13a M. 1:30 ...................... .. G :n·. 20a T. 2:30 ...................... .. Ger. 21 M. 8:30 ......................... . Spanish Sp. la M. 2:30 ........................... . Sp. 3a M. W. 3:30 .................. .. Sp. lOa M. 10:30 ....................... . Sp. lOa T. 9:30 ......................... . Sp. lOa T. 10:30 ....................... . Sp. 21 M. 8:30 ........................ .. Russian Rus. la M. 11:30 .................... .. Rus. lOa M. 9:30 ..................... . Chinese Chi. lOa l\1. 4:00 ....................... . Department of Ancient Classics Greek Grk. 1a M. 3:30 ...................... .. Grk. Ua M. 1:30 .................... .. General Humanities T-Tnm. la T. 10:30 .................... .. Hum. 14a T. 9:30 ..................... . Art Art. 20 M. 10:30 ...................... .. Art. 23a M. 11:30 .................. .. Art. 23a W. F. 1 :30 ................. . 3.9 3.8 3.2 3.4 2.9 4.7 3.6 3.3 2.9 4.1 4.6 3.0 3.0 3.0 4.4 3.9 3.3 2.5 4.4 3.5 2.9 3.5 3.1 2.9 2.3 2.5 2.3 3.5 4.0 5.0 4.0 3.6 3.8 4.3 3.8 3.5 3.5 2.7 3.0 2.4 4.3 3.1 2.3 2.6 3.8 4.8 2.7 2.5 2.8 4.3 3.2 3.0 3.5 3.8 4.0 2.9 3.0 2.7 2.4 1.8 2.0 1.8 1.5 il.O 5.0 4.0 3.4 4.0 4.1 3.5 2.8 2.9 3.3 3.3 3.1 3.6 3.5 5.0 4.5 2.0 2.8 2.7 3.6 5.0 2.3 3.5 3.5 2.7 2.9 2.9 2.7 3.5 3.0 3.1 3.4 4.2 2.3 2.0 2.7 3.9 3.4 2.5 2.5 3.0 3.2 2.9 1.5 3.0 2.4 2.2 2.5 2.3 3.0 4.5 3.0 3.0 3.8 4.2 4.9 4.1 3.3 II L. G. BALFOUR co. CARL SORENSEN BADGES • RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or Call Fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N. Y. 13210 Hist. 39a M. 9:30 .................... .. Hist. 44a T. Th. 1:30 ............... . Economies Eco. 21 M. 9:30 ........................ .. Eco. 21 M. 10:30 ...................... .. Eco. 21 T. 8:30 ......................... . Eco. 21 T. 9:30 ........................ .. Eco. 21 T. 10:30 ...................... .. Eco. 25 M. 11:30 ...................... .. Eco. 25 T. 10:30 ...................... .. S.S. 27 M. 10:30 ....................... . S.S. 27 M. 11:30 ...................... .. Eco. 31 T. 8:30 ......................... . Eco. 21 T. 9:30 ......................... . Eco. 37 M. 9:30 ........................ .. Eco. 41 M. 10:30 ..................... . Eco. 45 T. 8:30 ........................ .. Philosophy Phil. ~Oa F. 11:30 ................... . Phil 30a T. Th. 1:30 ................. . Phil. 32 M. W. 1:30 ................ .. Poli~ical Science P.S. 21 M. 9:30 ......................... . T. 9:30 P.S. 22 M. 11:30 ....................... . I P.S. 29 T. Th. 1:30 .................. .. P.S. 36 T. 10:30 ...................... .. P.S. 40a T. Th. 3:15 ................. . P.S. 47 M. 1 :30 ......................... . P.S. 55a ..................................... . P.S. 90a .................................... .. Sociology Soc. 21a M. 9:30 ...................... .. Soc. 21a T. 10:30 .................... .. Soc. 2la F. 9:30-rec ............... . Soc. 2la S. 10;30-rec .............. .. Soc. 21 T. 9:30 ......................... . Religion Rel. 23a M. 11:30 .................. .. Rei. 25a .................................... .. Logic Logic 20a T. 8:30 ..................... . 3.4 4.0 4.0 3.4 2.3 3.3 3.5 1.5 2.0 3.8 4.0 3.3 2.5 1.8 4.3 3.3 4.0 3.2 1.8 3.6 4.7 2.5 2.9 4.6 3.5 4.5 3.0 1.7 3.3 4.5 2.5 DIVISION III Biology Bio la T. Th. 10:30 .................. 3.6 Bio 1a M. W. 9:30 .................... 3.8 Bio 1a W. F. 1 :30.................... 4.6 Bio 6a M. W. 11 :30.................... 3.9 Bio 6a T. Th. 9:30.................... 3.5 Bio lla M. W. 10:30.......... ..... 4.8 Bio lla T. Th. 10:30................ 4.2 Bi~ 12a M. W. 9:30.................... 2.8 Bio 15 M. 10 :30........................ 4.5 Bio 21a T. Th. 9:30.................... 4.8 Bio 22a T. Th. 10:30................ 3.0 Chemistry Chern la Lee. .. ........................ .. Chern la M. W. 10:30 .............. .. Chern la M. W. 9:30 ... , ........... . Ch~m la M. W. 1.1:30 ............... . Chern la W. F. 11:30 .............. .. Chern 1-a W. F. 10:30 .............. .. Che:11 la M. W. 8:30 .............. .. Chern la T. Th. 9:30 ............... . Chem la M. W. F. 10:30 ......... . C'1em la T. Th. 10:30 ............... . Chem 12a M. 8:30, .................. . Chern 14a M. W. 11:30 .......... .. Chem 14a M. W. 10:30 ..... : .... .. Chern 2la IVL 9:30 .................. .. Cl1em 26 W. 8:30 ................... . 4.7 3.4 3.1 3.6 2.7 2.9 3.8 4.4 4.9 2.2 4.3 2.4 1.9 3.5 3.5 Ability 3.3 4.0 3.4 4.2 3.1 2.3 3.7 3.7 2.9 3.5 4.5 3.2 3.5 4;0 3.5 3.2 3.1 3;6 4.3 2.4 3.7 3.0 3.7 2.6 2.4 2.3 1.5 1.6 3.0 3.4 2.8 1.5 1.4 4.2 3.0 5.0 2.8 1.8 3.6 4.5 2.5 3.5 3.8 3.0 4.0 3.0 2.0 3.3 3.0 2.4 2.2 3.9 4.0 3.1 3.5 3.9 4.2 3.3 2.9 4.5 3.0 4.7 3.1 3.2 4.0 1.6 3.3 3.5 4.4 4.4 1.8 2.5 1.9 1.6 3.5 3.5 Course Value · Prep. for lecture Ability Course Value 4.5 2.2 4.0 3.2 3.1 2.3 3.4 3.3 3.5 2.8 4.4 3.4 3.7 3.9 4.0 3.5 2.9 3.9 4.1 3.6 4.0 3.8 3.7 3.4 3.0 2.5 1.6 2.2 3.0 3.4 3.8 3.1 2.0 4.1 3.2 4.3 2.9 2.5 4.0 4.7 3.0 3.3 4.0 2~0 2.6 3.0 3.0 3.0 2.6 3.0 3.5 1.9 3.9 4.:1\ 4.1 2.8 3.4 3.8 3.7 3.8 3.4 3.4 3.4 4.1 3.6 :1.6 3.~ 3.3 3.6 3.8 4.7 2.5 3.5 2.8 3.1 4.1 1.0 Geology Geo Ia T. Th. 8:30 .............. .. Geo la T. Th. 9:30 .................. .. Geo lla M. W. 10:30 .............. . Geo 1:4a M. W. 9:30 ................ .. Geo 26a T. Th. 9:30 .. Mathematics Math 3a M. 1 :30 ...................... . Math 3a T. 10:30 ...................... .. Math 4a JH. T. Th. 8::30 ........ . F. Math 4a lil. W. Th. 10:30 .. F. Math 4u l\L T. Th. 1:30 ..... F. Math 4a M. T. Th. 9::30 ..... . F. Math 4a M. W. F. 11:30 ..... Th. 1:30 Math 4a M. W. Th. 8:30 ........... . I F. Math 4a M. T. Th. 8:30 .......... .. F. 3.0 4.5 2.0 4.0 a.a 2.!J 2.5 8.9 3.7 :u 2.7 3.7 4.6 3.0 Math 4a M. W. Th. 10:30 ................ 2.3 F. Math 4a M. W. Th. 9:30 ........... . 4.1 F. Math 4b M. W. F. 11:30 ........... . 5.0 Th. 1:30 Math 14a M. W. Th. 10:30 ....... . 4.1 F. Math 14a l\L T. Th. 8:30 ............... 4.8 F. Math 14a M. W. Th. 9:30 ....... . F. Math 14a M. T. W. 1:30 .......... .. F. I Math 14a M. W. F. 11:30 ........ T 8:30 Math 14a M. W. F. 11:30 ........ Th. 1:30 Math 14a M. T. Th. 1:30 ........ F. Math 16a M. 9:30 .................... .. Math 17 M. 10:30 .................. .. Math 21 T. 8:30 ...................... .. Math 21 M. 11 :30 ................... . Math 31 M. 10:30 .................. .. Math 31 T. 9:30 ...................... .. Math 31 T. 10:30 .................... .. Physics Phys 4a 1\L 8:30 ...................... . Phys 4a M. 9 :30 ....................... . Phys 4a M. 10:30 ...................... .. Phy·.:; 4a M. 11 :30 ....................... . Phys 4a T 9:30 ...................... . Phys 4a T 10:30 ...................... . Phys lla M. 9:30 ..................... . Phys Ua M. 10:30 ................... . Phys lla M. 11 :30 ................... . Phys lla T 9:30 ....................... . Phys lla T 10:30 ....................... . Phys 21 T 10:30 ....................... . Phy.~ 25a T 9:30 ...................... .. Phys 31 ................................... . Phys 33 M. 11:30 ....................... . Psychology Psych la M. 8 :30 ....................... . Psych la M. 9:30 ..................... . · Psych la M. 10:30 ................... . Psych la M. 1:30 .................... .. Psych 1a T. 9:30 ..................... . Psych laT. 10:30 ..................... . Psych 1b T. 8:30 ...................... .. Psych lla M. 10:30 ................. . Psych lla M. 11:30 ................ .. Psych 12a W. F. 2:30 ............. . Psych 24a M. 9:30 ................... . Psych 24a T. 8:30 :~ ................. . Psych 25 T. 10:30 \ ................. . Psych 26a T. 9:30 .. : ... : .............. . Psych 28a M. W: il:30 ............. . Psych 30a T. Th. 1:30 ............. . Psych 56 a ................................ .. :~.0 4.1 2.4 4.4 3.7 4.4 2.5 3.4 4.9 2.8 4.1 4.3 4.6 4.1 4.4 2.8 4.3 3.5 3.9 3.7 4.4 3.0 4.2 :l.7 4.0 3.0 5.0 3.1 3.0 4.5 1.0 4.5 2.9 4.6 1.7 3.8 -2.7 4.3 4.0 2.0 4.5 4.7 DIVISION IV Engineering 3.:l 3.3 :t6 3.8 2.0 2.5 4.0 ., 3.2 2.:l ~ 2.0 2.8 2.6 2.9 2.9 :l.2 4.0 :l.l 3.8 1.9 3.4 2.1 3.5 3.0 4.7 4.6 4.0 3.0 3.7 2.6 4;0 :l.2 4.1 4.8 4.5 :u :l.6 4.6 4.3 2.4 :l.4 2.8 4.0 2.0 :l.O 4.9 4.4 3.6 4.0 5.0 3.3 2.4 2.4 2.6 3.1 4.7 3.7 2.1 2.8 3.1 3.4 '4.1 3.2 4.4 4.0 3.6 4.7 4.1 4.5 2.9 3.8 3.7 3.7 3.3 4.0 2.8 3.1 3.5 4.1 4.3 4.1 1.7 1.7 4.0 4.0 3.0 3.7 4.3 4.7 1.5 1.0 5.0 1.5 2.9 3.2 1.3 3.4 4.4 4.5 2.0 2.7 4.3 4.2 2.1 3.2 4.6 4.4 2.0 2.5 4.5 4.3 1.0 1.3 4.0 3.8 4.7 4.7 1.0 3.0 2.8 4.0 4.0 3.6 4.5 2.4 C.E. 20 ......................................... Q.4 2.8 2.2 E.E.21 M. 10:30 ........................ 2.8 2.7 3.0 E.E. 21 M. 11:30 ...................... 4.7 4.2 3.5 E.E. 23 T. 10:30 ......... :· .. ·............. 4.2 3.5 3.0 E.E. 25 ........................................ 4.8 4.1 4.0 E. E. 30 ...................................... 4.5 4.4 3.3 E.E. 40 T. 9:30 .......................... 4.o· 2.5 4.0 E.E; 43 T. 8:30 .......................... 3.0 4.5 3.0 E.E. 43 T. 10:30 ........................ 5.0 5.0 4.0 E.E. 47 M. 10:30 .................. :..... 4.5 4.8 5.0 E.E. 47 T. 8:30 .......................... 4.9 4.8 4.1 M.E. 21 ........................................ 3.4 3.1 3.5 M.E. 31 ...................................... 3.1 3.1 3.3 I ~:~: tl .. :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: !:~ tg ~:~ ====~liiiiiiiliiiililiiiiiiiliiiililililllilli:. -,,..-:::;; ~~~~~~~~~;:::;:;:;;:;::;;;::;;:;;;;~, Clean Clothes Last Longer! BOB DYLAN AT THE TROY ARMORY FQIDAY, FEB. 12 8:30 P.M. $2.00 ADVANCE SALE $2.50 GATE SIT-DOWN BLANKET CONCERT TICKET OUTLETS: TROY ARMORY MILLERS MUSIC 73 4th ST., TROY I VAN CURLER 128 STATE ST. ALBANY VAN CURLER PANTS 49c (2 OR MOREl SHIRTS 20c SUITS -------98c JACKETS -----49c PANTS ------49c SWEATERS ---49c Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5193 Just Around the Corner fro~ Mohawk National Bank 501 STATE ST. I SCHENECTADY. N.Y. ~=====-----~· .......................... .. ., : Jay Jewelry Co. 315 STATE STREET ;})iamoncl. ... . -· Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Y ~u~ Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. , Arnold fisher '50

Friday, February 12, 1965 Friday, Fe ... ,.. ___ _ Qlonrnr Published Fridays during the school year by the Student Body ot Union College, Schenectauy, N. Y. Na- tional Advertising Representative: National Advertising Se\vice Inc .. College Publishers Representative. 420 Madison Ave .. N. Y. C. Editorial Office. Old Gym, Union College. Publication Offlce, Sche- nE'ctady Printing Company, 502 Broauway. Entered in the Sche- nectady Post Office as Second Class ~!ali ~latter. Subscription 15c a ror>y: $B a year delivered anywhere in the UnltE\d States. SI,;:\1111( 11().\lt II LAHRY HOROWIT7. '63 ............. 346-9S9r. .. . MAHK OBENZINGE!t 'G3 ............ DI6-9959 HICH.AHD ARO!'I '65 ................. DIG-9848 lt<lHb:HT I' ll<>FI-'~1.\N ·,;ii It]( 'H .\.I.U l ~ i!o'T< l :-> '<;t; !Ut'IL\Hll HI·:~<'Ii '66 \VILLIA~I T. WI:-;:--:E '31 ............ Eunm·-in-Chiel .Business :Manager ... :\lanaging Editor . l'\t'ature.s Editor ~t>\Y!\ Rrlitor ~ports Brlit·Ol' Faeulty Advisor A New Era With the selection of its fourteenth president, Union is finally ready to begin its quest for academic excellence. The old well-worn paths of educational torpor have pro- duced nothing but mediocrity. It is obvious that something new must be tried. Somehow Union must acquire a central core and a direction all its own. Dr. Martin comes at a time of great opportunity. With proper guidance and leadership during this time of s~lf­ evaluation a dynamic Union College can become a reality. One of his biggest problems will be to get the faculty to shed its fear of change and take a more active role in form- ing nt>w educational policies. CJIMENS- Letters to the Editor To the Editor of Concordiensis: who can perform them with much greater alacrity and impunity than most adults. A boycott? Well, that does take more thought and reason, but who has the guts? There are some in the .South who are willing to try, but surely they have a reason while we are with- out cause. Catnpus Calendar February 10-Swimming: Unicn vs. NYU. Alumni Gym, 3:30 P .. Basketball: Union vs. Stevens. Field House, 8.:30 p.m. \All Quiet on the Westem Front\ Film Series in · EE 22 at 7:00 & 9 p.m. February February Don York Trio, Rathskel'iar, 8:00-1·2:00 p.m. 13-Ba·.:;ketball: Union vs. Wesleyan, Frosh 6:15 p.m.; Varsity 8:00 p.m. \ 14-WRUC 7:30 p.m.-Premier of \Knowledge Bowl,\ : Sigma Chi vs. Beta Theta Pi. Wrestling: Union vs. Hartwi~k, 3:30 p.m. 17-Swimming: Union vs. Williams, 3:30 p.m. 18-Convocation, Erskine Caldwell, author of Tobacco F¢bruary February Road and God's Lit:le Acre, Memorial Chapel, • F¢bl·uary 11:30 p.Rl. 18-21-\The Underpants\ by Carl Sternheim. The Galaxy Players. Nott Memorial Theater, 8:30 p.m. 1\1- in times of danger. The student stands alone. He stands alone be- cause he is expected to do some- thing when he dislikes conditions. There is a great Academic Army waiting to pounce on any student \'ho might open his mouth. What's to lese? You never know, they might pounce en the idea and you. It is time that the un- derclassmen take over for the Senile Seniors. Mest ef us wiU probab'ly gt·aduate this June, so we could care less. You still ha:ve to put-up with those well-known p1•ofs who are lurking- behind cer- tain blackboards. Every campus has them; that is why Union is like every campus. Thomas A. Dillon, '65. To lhe Ed:tor of Conc~rd:ens:s: Psi sustained a substantially lighter sentence is a credit to l::oth it and to the administrative • staff of Union College. I have no quarrel with the present judg- ment as I have said. Secondly, I consider the atti- t'\1 tude which prompts a comparison between the two cases rather su- perfluous and . unhealthy. As •·Concordiensis\ has been remind- 1 ed many times, the place for edi- torializing is not in news articles but in subjective, editorial col- umns. Despite the outward show ·• of bravado evinced by fraternity men at indiscretions, I believe there is a basic concern for the dignity of the fraternity system _. at. Union. An outmoded set of social rules literally forces fra- ternities to bend rules {enforcible in dormitories) until they break. I, i CaiG t To 11 Erskine c author and e!gn corres sailor, st: footba 1 1 pl ct and edito-r, entitled \( Workshop\ ary 18, at tl ial Chapel. llo M .. C<1 1 d· ~in White 0 er's J>OsttiOJ is;'·f'r anrl S( inat!on kep ally on the 1 r'\llle'l Pt P.r Carolina, ln a short tin South, Cent (tico. Two Y• tl') t>omplete Un·iversity 4 ing won a •the Dau~!1t r..cy. He rr football nb porters, an .finallv de~i ft again in or< ing. Author \ This time vowing not had written a good sh01 \ later, in 19 Swedes\ W4 a ward for fi novel Tobac· 19!\!2 had m This is the time for all members of the campus com- munity to speak out. Before the college commits itself to a new system, all views must be aired. As long as the school must wait until next fall before concrete steps can be taken, let everyone who has anything to say, say it this We are writing this letter as three interested seniors who have been closely following the con- troversy over the proposed pub- lications board. Although we are aware of the problems of imple- menting· such a board, we strong- ly feel that necessity <lemanrls its formulation. The large circulation of student publications, which includes a wide range of individuals, alumni, p:1rents, and benefactors, who are not immediately connected with the campus, emphasizes the im- portant responsibilities that these activities must assume. These in- terested individuals must rely solely on student publications for most of their information on cam- pus life; thus, this information rr;ust be rendered accurately and objectively. It is obvious that in some cases this responsibility has not been met. Without cause. Each and every day, each one of you reading this does his best to expand upon the injustices brought against you. Most are indeed mild, but that is the reason for expansion. Yet, each student in Union is sitting upon a cause which has been with man since the first recognized \authority.\ That cause is one of conecting the authority when he has made an obvious and perhaps fatal mistake. The mistake I l'e- fer to is one of teaching in a man- ner which is beyond the compre- hension of those being taught. As an individut' 1 and as a fra- ternity man, I was particularly intrigued and incensed by a state- ment in the article on page one about the latest decision of the Fraternity Control Council, name- lv Chi Psi's attaining the posi- tion of social probation. My ar- gument is not with Dean Pollock's decision, though I believe the pro- cedure with which the case was handled was somewhat abridged. lt was my understanding, as a member of the Interfraternity Council Judiciary Committee, that my committee should have had the opportunity to study the vio- lation and to have had the right to make recommendation to the Fraternity Control Council con- cerning the pena:lty. The judg- ment seems, in fact, to be just and well-considered. t { Tobacco J I once heard the observation made that a wise college presi- dent is one who sets the faculty debating on a nebulous topic (such as a new calendar) and who pro- motes discussion on a meaning- less subject (the Honor System?) among the students. Of course Union College has no president •1 now, so how can the analogy be valid? To the next president, I'd like to suggest fraternity socia·l rules as a suitable dilemma for the horns of the students. term. We wish Dr. Martin the best of luck in his new posi- tion. But let him beware. The past has shown that a good deal more than luck is required to change things at Union College. Poor Reaction We are shocked and dismayed at the campus reaction to the appointment of Dr. Martin. It must be remembered that he had absolutely nothing to do with the way the news was released. To condemn a man before he even arrives on campus is most unjust. Union College will sink or swim with its new president. As such he deserves the thorough support of the entire campus community until he proves himself unworthy of it. We have a feeling that that time will never come. Poll Results The results of the course evaluation poll indicate that while the majority of stud~mts were satisfied with the courses offered during the fall semester, there are some areas in which much work needs to be done. Briefly stated, it would be the purl?ose cf the new publications board to select creative, compe- tent, and interested personnel for the positions of editor and busi- ress manager of the campus pub- lications. We feel that this board would be a major step in improv- ing the quality of our publicat- ions. Presently, each editor ap- points his successor. ~o doubt the editor is most informed in the duties and responsibilities of his position, hut to leave the power of sel~ction in the hands of a single individual may lead to unjust per- sonal favoritism. Though the se- lection by the board and by the editor be identical, candidacy will at least necessitate a concise for- mulation of qualifica-tions. How often have you said to a friend. \Friend the prof. I have for English - is the m{)st think- headed and pasty-brained person on this campus!' Perhaps the words are not fully accurate, but the idea is present. Your friend may agree with you in that most nstute observation. Generally, that is as far as any comment goes until there is a new friend to amaze with the deeds of said rrof. The conversation is much improved, of course, if you kn(}W two or more such unique individ- uals who give F's for successfully completing an exam. Is there a cause? Not yet. There is no cause unless sufficient evidence can be shown to the ef- fect that the professor has a more universal negative result with a g;reat many students. Now we have ourselves a genuine, l'l'l';; red-blooded caused If you t:1.k long and hard eriough, so:m a g·ood many of your classmates will b:come acquainted with the same fact of a poor professor in a necessary or de.sirable course. So, like now what do you do? My argument is with \Concord- iensis.\ In th~ first place the last sentence of the article, refering to the lamentable state of the Alpha Delta Phi Fraternity one rear and nine months ago, con- tains an untruth: the penalty wa·s the loss of its privilege,_, to house women overnight and social pro- bation for one full year. Alpha Delta Phi petitioned this judg- ment at the end of the following semester and was reinstated with full social privileges. That Chi Have been .recommending - W e!'l1er Liepolt '66 Student Honor •. (Continued from Page 2) At the adult level of inter-faith r activity, the Campus Religious Council will co-sponsor a series of three Ecumenical Dialogues in Memorial Chapel at the vesper hour on Sunday, May 2, 9, and 16. Protestant and Roman Catholir clet·gy will converse on the cur- tent trend toward rhurrh unity. These three gatherings, if we may judg2 from a similar series last support ft·om both town and spring, will draw enthu::;iastk gown. According to the students, English 2, the Tuesday sec- tions of Spanish 10, Russian 1, S.S. 27, Economics 45, Political Science 22, Sociology 31, Logic, Chemistry 14, Psychology la (the Monday, 1:30 section), Psychology lla (the Monday 10:30 section), Psychology 12, and Psychol- cgy 25 need immediate attention. A board composed of three permanent members selected from the student body and two rotat- ing members, the edi-tor and busi- ness manager of the publication b~ing considered, would accom- p'ish this aim. Any student who feels he is qualified to assume one of these editorships would have an equal opportunity to apply; Most likely it is best to just talk and not upse~ .Jhe administration or t!1e trustees. After ali, you might get into trouble, and what would the Old Man think of that? HERSHEl MAURICE B. WALTEit We would like to reiterate that the purpose of this poll is twofold. It has been designed to help students choose their electives more wisely, and to enable the faculty to know what the students tr.ink of their courses. It is hoped that faculty memters wi!l not dismiss the student's opin- ions with a grain of salt, but will rather reevaluate their courses in the light of the results. We hope that the faculty members involved with the courses singled out above will give immediate attention to the reevaluation of the frame- work of their courses. In the case of Logic the rating is indeed unfortunate. This course is required of many individuals yet is appar- ently considered to be a waste of time. In view of this it should either be redesigned or stricken from the books as a formally required course. Also notable is that the Department of Psychology fared worst among all the departments. Some introspection is called for over there. It is interesting to note that the Math Department, which has been under much criticism lately, fared better than average in the opinions of the students. There are, however weaknesses in that department that the poll was not designed to catch, and the procurement of new high quality faculty in math should still te of immediate con- cern to the administration. u.1 Obviously this poll is not to be regarded as \the final word\ on any of the courses evaluated. But neither should it be ignored. It is one of the ways a college that is trying to achieve a measure of academic exQellence takes stock of its present strengths and weaknesses. It should be taken in that light. more specifically, it would be the express duty of the board to wel- come any prospe::tive candidate and inform him of the tasks and responsibilities to be maintained. In some s:tuations it will be a prerequisite that the candidate have experience on the publica- tion to which he aspires. How- evet·, it can also be assumed that there should be more than one candidate with the required ex- perience. Allowing the editor to make a unilateral decision may result in something less than an objective choice. We have not attempted to dis- cuss all the pros and cons of a publications board, nor have we answered the problems of its con- tinuity and member selection. :I-t was our purpose to demonstrate the need of a publications board and its benefits to the campus community. There is certainly room for further constructive dis- cussion which we hope will be stimulated by this letter. The is- sue is too important to be settled without an airing of all views. Thomas A. DiCerbo '65 Lawrence R. Dittelman '65 Daniel A. Wells '65 To the Editor of Concordiensis: Riot, boycott, slander, liable, unjust, immoral, subjective, un- warranted, impudent. Eye-catch- ing and stirring words, those, but so-what? Am I proposing like a riot or slander~ No. I am too much of a coward to go that far. Besides, a riot is rather childish. Indeed, such acts of violence are a regular diet of young children T'1an again, it seems th!lt the fac- 1'1 ~y has a pretty free run of t':ings at Union. Without ques- • io>1, tha-t is just as it should be. !\obody wants to teach under an iro>1-fist. But, who is paying $30no or better a year, and who :s here to learn from whom? It 's r:::asonable to assume, I think, tbat the student has some idea of what conditions are best so that he may gain the greatest amount of knowledge. If that be the case, then he better let someone know how he feels not only about cer- tain coui·ses, but specific pro- fessors. · We at Union are fortunate in having some form of open and free co:nmtinications. I refer, of course, to the Coucoi·dy. Why not use it. How many more chances will any of you have to see your name in print? Why not go thru your House or Dorm and find out just what the prevailing opinions are concerning professors. I do not mean how they dress, or what . r-olor tie they forget to wear, or how many good stories . they tell. I am referring to the actual trons- mission of subject from professGr to student. And, most important, how can it be improved '1 Anyone can cutup a prof, but who can im- prove upon his method? · Don't worry about yelling too 1 oud, for the faculty will no-t fall a! your first words, and I thin}{ that might prove most unfor- tunate. . . Tne~ ·administra-tion and Trus- tees are there to help th~ faculty Maurice B. Graubart & Sons - -- - . -·- ·-· - \3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY TIME CENTER JEWELERS Your Valentine's Day HEADQUARTERS STOP DOWN SOON 428 State Street FR4-0183 problems of agricultural whites who bock was se ~outh by re· be too vivil subhuman e: Belt. Follov 1933 and H Acre and i< to the banni1 from.many · again, his st ent lif a of t\ ically, the Tobacco Ro: Kirkland, w: way as a col Co-Aut In 1939 l\ hls first wif( rapher Mar They collabc of the re1 type: You H: v record of Tobacco Ro~ Acre, North book along Czecho·slova~ Munich con War, and Is Re4 Mr. Caldw ~ Francisco w Virginia. Hi nclude: All Smolensk anc both wdtten War ii corre S.R., Episo~ Lamp for N Stories, Whe Close to Hm of Summer, IJ;STAURAt>!T J;C FOUNTAIN SUPJ SAlt SUfPLIES POLYEUjELENE CELLOPHANE DACYI s J. NOG Estc WHOLESJ PAPER STATIONERY Phon• ~8-34 DIAn Enjoy Our F Italian <;omfortab Opp. The Open Dail Sundays t.

1965 30 P .. in p.m.; : The p.m. 4 to ~ I have judg- • q'\1 attl- su- y, As remind- 1 for edi- articles col- show ·• aternity believe for the system :t set of fra- break. ervation e presi- ~ Friday, February 12, f965 ~--~----~~-------------------------,------------~-----r------------------r------------------------------------- Caldwell, Noted Author, Prexy. 5 Galaxy ••• 'To Discuss \Workshop'~ Erskine Caldwell, world famous <11~---- 11author and former reporter, fol'- e!gn correspondent, cotton picker, sailor, stagehand, professional footba 1 1 player, book reviewer, (land editor, will deliver a lecture entitled \Out of the Calclwell Wol'kshop\ on Thursday, Febru- ary 18, at 11:30 A.M. in Memor- tl ial Chapel. Born in Ge()t•gia M\- Qq 1 dwtol! was hom in 1903 in White Oak, Georgia. His ff'th ~ er's ]>OSition as Presbyterian min- is'·<>r ~mrl se:!r\tarv of his denom- inat!on kept the 'family continu- ally on the move. In 1921 h\ en- 1 r'llle'l rt P.rsldne College in South Carolina, but .I ~ft the school after n short time to roam the Deep South, Central America, and Mex- (tico. Two years later he returned t() <'Omplete his education at the Un·iversity of V;rginia, after hav- ing won a scholarship offered by the Dau~!1ters of the Confeder- • r..cy. He married, worked as a football player, cab driver, re- porters, and cotton picker, and finallv rle~ided to leave schoo' ft agai-n in order to write for a liv- ing. ERSKINE CALDWELL • • (Continued from Page 1) (Continued from Page 1) ually lead to the ascendancy of Scholarship Committee for Mass-. Nazism. achusetts, and he served on the 'The Underpants\ tells the The Philomalheans, Union College's debating team, has planned regional committee f0r Woodrow story of Luise Maske, who, while the most extensive season in its career·. More students are debating Wilson FeNowship fram 1960 to watching a parade honoring the this year than in the last ten years, due to a great ext.ent to, .the Canadian Debates Planned For Philos 1962. Kaiser, lases her underpants. An largest freshman team in the Philo's history. The team wiH compete Scltolarly Works ar:stoerat, Frank Scarron, and a in at least fifty mare rounds of debate than last year. He is the author of \The Lngic nnd Rhetor;c of Exposition\ ( 1957), \Inqui.ry and ExprPssion,\ with Richard Ohman (1957), and of a number of scholarly papers. H ') also edited and contributed to \Prose Style in Fiction\ (1958). barber, Herr Mandlestam, who • This weekend starts a long tour ~re intrigued with this occurrence, / for the Philomatheans, beginning attempt to woo her. The play PJed&t•ng 1 on Monday at Queen's College in His of tre ensuing love triangles e • • • I Kingston, Ontario. The subject that develop between these men, (Continued from Page 1 ) ·is, \Resolved that Plymouth Rock the woman's husbaml, Theobald· should have landed on the Pil- Mas\:e, and a spinster .neighbor, eligible to pledge as compared to gr:ms.\ This debate as well as Trmle Deutr-r. i3 last year. all the Canadian debates wm be He is a trust?e of R0xbury Playing Luise Maske will be Final Results conducted in the popular Parlia- (i\Ia·i's.) Latin School·, the Buek- Jinx Lindenauer, who has ap- . . , mentary style. On Tuesday the ir.gham School in Cambr:dge, and neorecl in ('Very Galaxy produc- The followmg IS a brea~down two debators will challenge the Ha1twick College. ''on sine~ the group's founding in -,f the fina-l results of pledgmg at Royal Miiitary College, determin- 1 Married b the form ·r Elma 1 !Hi3. ~he h:-os Plso appeared in indiv,i~ual fraternities. In de: ing, \Resolved that Canada and Hicks. Iw .is the fa'he:· of two produC'tions of the Virginia Mu- s~en:c·mg . numerical ord~r, Phi! the United States shauld be eco- 1 sons and t\\'o daught~rs. . seum Thea're and the Schenec- Eps Ion ~~. 31; Delta Upsilon, 24 _; : nom:cally and politically joined.\ Th~ new president is scheduled b wri' e the faculty column of n~xt week's Concordiensis as his in 'rorluct:on to the college com- munity. s. c. • • • tarly Civic Players. Delta <?hi,_ 22;. Theta Delta Chi, On Wednesday Stolzberg and Je:Ji- Pe'erson Portrays Aristocrat 14; Ph1 .Srgma Delta, _13; Alpha: frey take on Carleton College in Professor Sven Peterson will [;elta Ph1, 12; D~Ita Pht, 11; Kap-! Ottawa on the topic, \Resolved portray the aristocrat, and :Oavid pa ;'\lvha, 11; Phr Delta The~a, 11; ' that the enforcement of morals Isaacson, a seniar at Union, will ~hr Gamma Delta 1~; Psr. Up-1 should not be a concern of the p'ay the barber. Peterson has stl<;m, 1; ~eta The.ta Pr, 9! S~gma, laws.\ The remainder of the served as Technical Director with Ph1, 8; Srgma Ch~, 7;. Phi SJgma we2k's tour v:ill be spent in Mon- the Kennebunkport Summer Te- Kappa, 6; and Chr Psi,, 8. Fresh-! trzal debating on the same sub- atre, and presently serves as co- men who depledge Will not be I ject at the McGill Winter Carni- 1 host of ETV's \The Lively Arts.\ a!lowe.d to pledge another house val. The team will be bolstered His acting experience includes ap- .for thtrty days. 1 by Ben Wechsler, M~k~ Bloom, nearing on WMHT-TV's produe- . Dick Beck, Ted Kremtk, John Author of Tobacco Road I (Continued from Page 1) t'on of \Between the Bookend,s\ For over fifteen years, despite; Gazak and Paul Fiondella. , and )1l'evious Galaxy plays. Isaac- 'I\ h · h \'h Ph'! th h plan -------------- : lege groups wtU perform, featur- son has appeared in three plays limited facr 1ties, pure p ys1cs as I L e 1 oma eans ave d I ing the Sh_erwoods_ from Cornell .. : put on by tile Mounteb·anks. been one of the strengths of the i ned debates for ever~ weeken H AI[[ Q • t\ W 1 b $2 75 b · 1 b unt'l mid-March. We will be com- \ This time he went to M~ine, ...t1 u ze ' eekend hckets WI! e . pel The spinster Trude Deuter will Marl oro College .currrcu urn e-1 peting against Rochester Insti- vowing not to come out until he I person. 'be portrayed by Eleanor Wein- cause of the teachmg of John W., tute of Technology, Boston Uni- had written what he considered S h d [ d 1 Concern Over Book Loss rich. She studied theater in New MacArthur. Now, Marlboro has versity, C.C.N.Y., Br<?okly~ Col- a good short story. Eight years c e u e '' . R t v· York City and has taught at the r>CPJ'ved a grant of $7,500 from lle.ge,_ Siena and possJbly, m the later, in 1933, \Country Full of In his President's epor • Ic- American Theatre Wing. She has - - fi 1 t St J h s \ Swedes\ won the Yale Review D ~ • h tor Fazio recommended that the appeared in the Broadway produc- the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. 1 dtstrrct na s a · 0 n · faculty (such pro- course •1 be dent, I'd award for fiction. Meanwhile, his .£' 0T .L Ontg t Council remain concerned with the tion of \The Rose Tattoo,\ sev- The grant will be used to pur- 1 w· (I p) Lake novel Tobacco Roa d, published in loss of books from Schaffer Li- 1 ff B d h d h f th H d d Sheboygan, IS.- · · - - f h . t' era c roa way s ows, an on c ase or e new owar an , d C liege's newly inaugurated 1!!32, had made him famous. E · h Marla Remarque's All brary, regardles·s 0 t e reJec IOn nat'onal television. Rene Dufour, A R' L'b d I an ° 1 th d d I 'th th ric · of the honor program proposal my Ice 1 rary, un er con- four weel{ term, cal ed e ' { Tobacco Roa ea ~ WI e Quiet On the Western Front was · w~10 is active in ·the Children's h problems of the archaic Southern considered the best book to come The All College Council will meet Theatre in Burnt Hills, will por- struction, the major portion of the \WINTERIM\ during the m~nt agricultural system and t~e poor I out of the First Wor~d War, and on February 22 to discuss \The tray the Stranger. 400 volume physics library recom-1 of January, provi~es for a var1et1 whites who live under rt., The was responsible for much of the State of Activities at Union.\ He Tickets for \The Underpants\ mended for small colleges by the I of flexible educ!ltlOnal 0 PP?rtum- social for •• 2) series of in vesper and 16. Catholir the CUl'- unity. f we may la~t ami ,...'\'tr~ ALTfllt b k l tta ked m the I h' also suggested that future mat- b b · d t th b ffi . . Ph . ties and experiences withm the oc was severe Y a c . postwar pacifist reaction. T IS ters of collcern for the Council may e o tame a e ox o ce Amencan Institute of ys1cs. f'rame\'ork of the liberal arts. ~outh by reviewers who felt It to 1930. film will be shown in E.E. 22 in the Nott Memorial. \ ~~~hla~~~~~fu~w~~~7~9~.--. ~~d~~~~~oo~~~ ~~~~~~~~----~--------------~==~~~--------- subhuman existence of the Cotton posals for curriculum revision, de- Belt. Following Tobacco Road in This Academy Award winning pendent upon possible a'ctions by 1933 and 1!)35 were God's Little film was produced by Carl Laemle the faculty. Fazio will serve as I Acre and journeyman, whfcl) led shortly after the invention of head of a committee which will to the banning of Caldwell's books talkies. The dialogue by George be involved in ·the selections of from many public librnies. l{ere Abbott and Maxwell Anderson I editors and business managers for I again, his subject was the dEicad- might be considered trite and campus publications; the commit- ent life of the Deep South. Iron- overworked by today's film stand- tez will include two other stu- . ical!y the dramatic version of ards. Directed by Lewis Mile- dents, the outgoing editor jlnd ~~ Toba~co Road, written by Jack stone, the film was considered to b_usiness manager of -the _publica- Kirkland, was received on Broad- be as realistic as news photog- tlon, and the faculty adviser. way as a comedy. .raphy. Council Sponsors Weekend Co-Author With Wife Horror~ Depicted Under old business, the Coun- I 1939 Mr Caldwell div<>rced All Quiet On the Western Front cil moved that it should assume his 1irst wife ~nd married photog- starred L?uis Wol~eim as the vet- the r7sponsibility for the pr~-[ r~ her Margaret Bourke-White. eran soldier Katczmsky, and Lew senta~wn of a Jazz Weekend thts, Tlfey collaborated on four books I Ayres as the you~g G~rman boy, i y~ar m the absence of acceptable I of the repertorial-photographic Paul. Paul and hts .frtends ent~r btds from .other studer:tt gi;oups. 1 t e: You Have Seen Their Faces, the German ImperJa1 Arryty m Gary Morrt.s was appom~ed head YP d of the area des~ribed in l!l•l4 and learn that war IS not of a committee which will make ~ J:c: Road and God;s Little t~w glorious event they had heard arrangements for the Weekend, A 0 a ~orth of the Ranume a of in school. The camera passes which will be held on March 20. b erk, along similar lines about through the filth and horror of The motion was passed, 17-2. 00 k' · t · . t- the the trenches, the battles, and, Czec:hhslova ;a JUS P(t~~si: at worst of all the hospitals. The Council approved the allo- M:ume con er~nce, US A ? ' cation of funds for sending 4 rep- War, and Is Thts the · · ·' l\Iixed Reviews resentatives to a convention at Recent Works A reviewer of the l9~0's;, · Mor- Dartmouth College, to be held on Mr. Caldwell no~ lives in San ~ Francisco with his third wife, Virginia. His more re-cent works nclude : All Out on the Road. to Smolensk and Moscow Under Frre, both written while he was a World War ii correspondent in the u_s. S.R., Episode in Palmetto, A Lamp for Nightfall, ~ulf Coast Stories When You Thmk of Me, Close to Home, The Last Night of Summer, and Around About RESTAURANT I;Cil!IP~~NT . DRUG SUNDRIES FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES NOTIONS SAlt SUfPLIES NQVELTIES POLYEUjELENE R E N T A L S ' CELLOPHANE GlASS\'IARE DI~HES SILVERWARE DACY PAPER f~· Successor to J. NOGEE & SONS, Inc. Established 18811 WHOLESA~E DISTRIBUTO'S PAPER-PAPEI BAGS STATIONERY -SCHOOL SUPPLIES Phone Fl't 4-4429 ~8-34 N. Broadway Schenectady 5, N. Y. DIAI\JANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Coo~ed Italian Food in Our i <;omfortable Dining Rpohl Opp. The ~rownell ~ate . o,n Nott St. ; Open Daily 1 0 to 3 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. • 3 A.M. dant Hall of the N. Y. Tiines, April 23-25. The topic of the con- said that All Quiet On the West- vention is \Students and the Civil ern Front \ ... does not mince Rights Movement.\ j matters concerning the horrors of Permanent dates have been es- battle · · · a trenchant and im- •ablished in the future for both aginative audible picture.\ A Winter and Spring Weekends. modern reviewer, Robert H:atch 01 0 · d h tt Of the New Repu!;lic, sbted that, Greg sen Iscusse t e rna er with Profesor Ketz, who agreed \(The film was) very na v{'i · · · hat the last weekend in Febru- jumbled, jerky and posed. Made ary and the last weekend before by men who thought the world reading week, respectively, would could learn a lesson.\ be acceptable. y 'T t + f ¥ + f' T \rT\T 'f ¥ 9 f ¥ Y V'\T\\T'T\' STUDENT TRAVEL • College Tours • College Study Programs STUDENT &. FACULTY GROUP TOURS Arranged at LOWEST PRICES Books Now open for Spring and Summer Vacations Schenectady J\tav~l Bureau, Inc: - Est. 1930 424 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY, N. '(. PHONE FR 7-850~ Agents :For All Leading Airlines - ~team Ship - Rail- roads and Car Rent:,tl Cos. 6 & 4 4 4 4 6 .4, t 4 .+, 6 4 A 4 it~ ........... 1951 Ford Convertibre Radio, Heater, Ski Rack Overload Springs Telephone 37 4:..4314 • ......... ,:4i+J.·······........: College Students Faculty Members College Libraries SUBSCRIBE NOW AT HALF PRICE Printed In BOSIOH lOSAIIGBEs tON DOll Clip this od~ertlsement and return It with your chec:k or money \rder to: ' Ttoe Chrldlon Scllll!ce Meftlhr One Hprway ·st., •t•ton, Mear, OZ115 0 1 YEAR $12 . 0 6 mos. $6 '•' 0 COLLEGE STUDENT 0 FACULTY MEMBER. P·CN B·52.8·engine jet bomber with range ofover9000 mites. Backbone of the Strategic Air Command. =:wr?=-=-=-',,,,,,,,,,,,,,,:':w·=''?'':''?:~=:~::::,r::::::::::':':'=::::::=:::t:::::'''''''':·,,,,,,,,,,,,,,~r:;~''f:'(i':;:~::~:~:f;::y:====:;:::''''~''·,···'·· ,.-.,,,,,:,,,, ,-,,- ., .. ,., ·.· ::;. . Are you ready for a multi-million-dollar responsibiliiY 7 If you are, there's a place for you on the chance to show it in the Air Force. Your Aerospace Team-the U. S. Air Force. work can put you and your country ahead. No organization in the world gives young You can earn your commission at Air Force people a greater opportunity to d.o vital, Officer Training School, a three-month responsible work. course open to both men and women. To For example, just a short while ago a 23- apply, you must be within 210 days of your year-old Air Force lieutenant made a start- degree. ling breakthrough in metallurgy. And a For more information, contact the Prates- recent All-America tackle is doing advanced sor of Air Science. If your campus has no research in nuclear weapons. U S A·lr fOrC& AFROTC, s!'le your local Air If you have talent, you'll have a • • Force recrUiter.

V·IETNAM CRISIS Page 2 Conco.rdy Sports POLL RESULTS PA.GE 3 Shields Sets School Mark• Matmen Pin ' Hoba.rt For Quit IFirst Victory Schauer, Papanicolaou Cagers Falter Twice; :Chi Psi Defeats D Chi For Tie Chi Psi clinched a tie for the 1 basis of the teams' records in va~A SteC'I ,.,ns ,..,.,on -igh t championship of the American! football, volleyball and badminton. £ j &..-&:;- va;:,... .I.. ~ ~ . League in basketball btramural; Chi Psi 324.284 ; competition- <Wednesday evening I Delta Chi 267.142 By Audv Colb ,• --- by defeating Delta Chi 33-21. Go- i Sigma Chi 264:283 ' 1 ing into the last game of the i Phi Gamma Delta 258.568 C I E .. , 't 1 k tb 11, ed to 9-2. Then, the roof fell in. s~hedule Chi Psi was sporting a I Theta Delta Chi 258.568 oac 1 \an s varsi Y, Jas e. a Drew threw a full court press on 1 4 1 d h · 1 1 1 h 244 28 tea!1 1 \nil fare Stevens. I~stlt';!te: the surprised Garnet. That, cou- 1 1 - re~or , t etr so e oss was j Kappa A p a . 5 tomght and ~esle~an Umver~ttyd: pled with th~> failure of Union's, ( 1 • ue to a forfeit. Delta Chi had a Delta Phi 241.426 tcmonow mght m the F1el 1 defense to hustle after a shot I econl of 6-0. The two teams will I Beta Theta Pi 212.857 House. Both g-ames start at ~:po. held Union to only 6 points in 7! meet again to determine the win- IJelta Upsilon 201.427 The cagers have been practtcmg mintues while Drew s~ored 16 ner of their division. The victor Phi Sigma Kappa 184,285 all week, not. on!:( t~ avenge the Most of\ tllose were 'on eas:~-:: 1 we·i I then fMe Delta Upsilon, the I Phi Epsilon Pi ·178.570 1 ~2-86 dt·ubbmfi mfhcted by the lay-ups. Midway through the sec-, th::tder of the National League, for I Sigma Phi 178.570 Wesleyan Cardmals I:ast year but ond quarter, the Drewmen started, e championship. Aloha Delta Phi 171.426 also to cot·rect the miscues of the . t.he press again and incre·ased the 1 The game's high scorer was Phi Delta Theta 159.999 last two games. l.ead to 10 at the half. \Beatie\ Strickland with nine Psi Upsilon 14 1. 428 In last weekend's basketball ac- With four minutes left in the points. The scoring went as fol- k~~~!gffi~!elta 1~~:~~~ tion, Kings Poir:t Merchant ~a- game the Garnet finally caught lows: Independents 4:J.OOO ri!le Acad~my, led .bY J. Tompkt~~ fire ~nd gained momentum. The Chi Psi Delta Chi I wtth -26 pomts, ~as!ly romped ov 1 i Drew lead was slowly cut to three Members of Boston University's the Garnet Qumtet, 1~ 8 - 67 • ~at- 1 with four minutes left. The team Masters 7 urd~y afternoon. Fnday mgnh 1 • t ran out of steam after OlsOcil, H :::hapter of the American Assoch- ; agat.nst the Dutch~en, Drew U . - Kasper, and Urbelis fouled out. urlbut 7 Teed 6 ~ion of University Professors re- Yersit,Y upped th~1r season recotd on several bad calls. Drew popped Erdoes 5 Rudich 4 ~en:tly discuss2d a publi'shed state- to 2-3 by breezmg to an 85 - 77 in seven points in the closing min- Crookes 3 Cherinko 6 ment of faculty responsibility for Yictory which was sp.arl<ed by ute to Union's 3. students' academic freedom. The Pete Makoskv's 87 pomt effort. I SRtrickland 9 Stewart 1 L'nion's record now stanns at 6-5. Point Distribution 3tatement, published in a recent amich 2 Saltz 4 issue of the association's Bulletin, Overwhelming Press~s 1 Kings Point picked up an early _ 'b'l' , , , 1 lead in the Saturday afternoon - ')UHines· faeulty respons1 1 1ty for : In bot!; games, El Eyans cag- contest and from there dominated Total 33 Total 21 :re::-dom of student newspapers erse led m the early mmutes, but the entire afternoon. Union lead <J.:ld governments, classroom free- were soon overwhelme~ by strong, only once, 14_ 9, during the begin- The following is the standings of :om of. expression for students, man-to-man full comt press~s. ning of the first quarter. Ahead the intramural teamcs at the end Gt·eg .Olson l~n th~ Garne.t w1th by 16 at the half, the Blue and of the fall spor:s schedule. The .md· freedom from unjust admin- 1 fl pomts agamst Kmgs Pomt .. He Grey kept piling i.tp points with- stat:stics were compiler\ on the :stl'ative punishment. waR followed by center Ron. Gta~- out stopping until the final buz- cola and forward Tom U rbehs ze1· Particularly noticable in the w~th 14 ea·ch and. Gary. Brown Ki~g's Point scoring was the even w1th 10. In .the Friday mgh.t ar- distribution of points. Ever.y play- t JO;t, Ron _GJancola poppe~ m e 2 ~ er had at Ie!lst three points, while pomts. agamst Drew. He vo;as s ~ only the htgh scorer, J. Tomp- on~ high sc<?re1' of the _contes•t, m kins, had over 20. Kings Point's whtch Urbehs dropped m 16, Kas- I big man, €'5\ sophomore James per 15, Brown 12 and Olson 9. , Levine was out of action with a f I f t T t w ¥ w ii # ¥ + ¥ ¥ + + ¥ t ¥ Y + ¥ Y t ¥ T T Y T Y Y 'f T' T 'T T T Y T T f 9 ¥ T Erratic Shooting ·sprained ankle. LEVI'S Coach Evans attributed the I . --------- double loss to ineffective outs.ide 1 UNSUNG HEROES DEPT.: shooting, erratic foul shooting, 'I , . . and the general collapse of the . With absolutely nothmg gomg White & Olive &. Blue Stretches 6.98 Corduroy - 5.98 defense. The hoopsters hit only ;.1ght. fo;, the Garnet, ev;n B'?b 1 for 18 from outside the key., Tramer Leonard couldn t avotd Sloppy playing mistakes were probl~ms. He was . awarded a continual during the Kings Point techmcal f~ml for tellmg the\refs game. Union threw the ball away I ?ne .of (~ell'. fot;I cal!s was Just forty times; the score would have 1 ,err1ble. Kmg s Pomt not only been even more lopsided if Kings 1 su~ccss!'ully completed the three- Point didn't retaliate with 36 i P?Int play, but converted the tech- errors of their own. This week, meal and then a~ded a field goal DAVE'S the Garnet is practicing on small- I after. the techmc~l. Po.or B_ob 4.49 er than regulation hoo]}s in an ef'-, was mst~·umental m a SIX pomt ~4 fort to improve accuracy. In the I play agamst the team. !S _., np ho~psters last four gall!es, of I CHEWING GUM DEPT.: The qutr n . wluch three we:e lost, Umon has ; basketball team last weekend ~ · avera~~d 80 pomts a gan;e. The chewed ovet· 7() sticks of p;um in I opposttwn has averaged 92. . two gam~>s. Most popular is 1 ; Urbelis, Olson, and BI\Own op-l Juicy-Fruit. Alone, Phi Sigs Stu I~ ~ 326 STATE STREET Ph. 377-3061 ened the scoring for Union Dym and Marty Goldberg devour- i ~ • against Dt·ew with three quick 1 ed three packs of dark-green gum _ • Tues. & Thurs. 'til 9 baskets before Drew had a chance (Spearmint?). Sig Chi's choice is!~ • to score. Th.e margin was inc1·eas- Juicy-Fruit-how sweet it is!! ; l ......... , ..... • • 6. •,.. 6 ••• , ••• • 6,. • • •• • 4. 6. • 4 • •, • • • 4 • Ring Leads Track Team As Indoor Season ·Opens By Ricky Resch R~stau~anl Jay Street 0 PEN SUNDAYS 7 A. M. - 6 P. M. Special Prices For Union Students On ALL Meals • • - 2Jinner- Roast Beef or Veal Cutlet with Choice of Vegetables • Salad and Coffee All For $.90 Wheat Cakes with butter and syrllp -------- CC?ffee Wheat Cakes with Bacon, Ham, or Sausage.:.__ Coffee · ·~· \ French Toast and Coffee ______________ _ With Bacon, Ham, or Sausage-------- .45 .60 .45 .60 Two Eggs (any style) Home fries, Toast, Coff~e.45 Two Eggs (any style) Home fries, Ham, Bacon, or Sausage .65 Union's Eating I) ,, ~) • (I • Vol. 9~ A Satu featuring fwill head ties as th' Winter \i 27, 28. t Festivit o'clock F .Alumni G cert featt . \\'oods, T 1 L'nion's I eert wilt anny, wit around th ~\eel on bla On Satt tt·am wi I The Cone ,as the Ro for their and ente Glass pre \tertainme: Varsity B Pratt lns1 Pratt has and prom f> match fOI Union to bring· t Singers t , their big~ roll orier primarily They pos C> which set multitude scene tod: their sonJ (C01 Com ''Sho~ This ev 9:00 P.M 1.\ will be They are mance an An Even •· Tilly's tile first 1 length m rected it 'il in 1914, : scene w Keystone are Mari Normand. (Q The pic tne coun1 lured to 1 \The city money, oJ Never 4 Break is ~ ~ in 1941. , and is al: of the pl1 are Glori: Fiel Fields comedian He becom ian. Wi .. 'Fields bt series of meets a g off an ice 'an elder!: hospital t Of cours Fields is 1 beautiful · of hectic climbing, festival. ~ C. Fields '., Knt:l The 1 ~ series, me Electric < WRUC I: the first Theta Pi c~ Each VI Knowledg given th Bowl,\ a: llt to take winner re to clefe against a 1\ing thre be retire graved or The pr< 11 Sunday 1 Sunday, be match' champion temi ty OJ ,,. enter the contact F

I) • i' ~) practice will be tabulated. ac- ~ ., iddle and s Union's Ketz had the high • able to nt middle has work~)' Dar- unless (He ran the 600\ 1 l> when the to his AI·~ last year, first two be., of the will run on!!J' be the set a v of 4:22.3 Bill events addition '> will Paul of the pering 11 New- ln- in the ·\ team at 1 uarter in the Uni- .45 .60 .45 .60 .65 •1 ~ ~ (I Founded at Union College 1877 • Vol. 94 -No. 15 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1965 PRICE 1 5 CENTS ·Rooftop Singers .Highlight Weekend I ! Dr. Steinntetz To Be Honored Application I A~ !~.'!. .. nd~rs, Day Convocation A Saturday afternoon concert~-----­ The man who propelled the engineering program at Un- ion College to national lead- I ership, Charles Proteus Stein- metz, will be honored in Me- morial Chapel on Thursday, February 25 at 11 :30 A.M. On that day, Union will featuring The Rooftop Singers, fwil! head a list of campus activi- ties as the Class of 1~68 presents Winter Weekend, February 26, 27, 28. t Festivities will begin at 8 o'clock Friday evening in the Alumni Gymnasium with a con- cert featuring the Cornell Sher- • \\'Oods, The Trinity Pipes, and L'nion's Dutch Pipers. The con- eert will be an informal hooten- anny, with the audience grouped · .around the entertainers and seat- fltccl on blankets. On Saturday Cnion's swimming tt·am wi l meet RPI at 2:00 P.M. The Concert will follow at 3:30, • as the Roof Top Singers, famous for their hit, \Walk Right In,\ and entertainer-folksinger Dick Glass present two hours of en- \ tertainment. At 8:00 P.M. the Varsity Basketball team will meet Pratt Institute in th.e field house. Pratt has amassed a 15-0 record aad promises to be a fearsome fl match for Union's five. Union is fortunate to be able to bring· the likes of the Roof Top Singers to the stage. Although , their biggest hit was a rock and roll oriented number, they are primarily an ethnic folk group. They possess a distinctive style C> which sets them apart from the multitude of folksingers on the scene today. They w1:ite many of their songs themselves; the rest (Continued on Page 5) ERIK DARLING H.E.L.P. Subject Of IFC Talk ·celebrate the 170th anniver- sary of its founding, and the 100th birthday .of Steinmetz, one of its most renowned professors. Honorary degrees, awarded an- nually on Founder's Day will be received bY. Gerald L. Phillippe, Chairman of the Board, and Clarence H. Linder, retired Vice- President, both of the General Electric Company. The principal speakers will be Mr. Linder and retired Professor of Electrical Engineering at Union, Harold W. Bibber. Linder will speak on \The Future of Engineering.\ Steinmetz Flees to U.S.A. Charles Steinmetz was born a hunchback in Breslau, Germany just as the Civil War was ending in this country. At the Univer- sity of Breslau he became asso- ciated with an anti-Bismark so- cialist group, and was eventually forced to flee Germany or face Professor Alan Roberts, direc- imprisonment. He sought refuge tor of the H.E.L.P. foreign stu- in America, and soon offered his dent exchange program on genius to the General Electric campus, spoke to the Interfra- CGmpany. C . • Cl • ternity Council on Tuesday night In 1902, Union College asked OffilC • aSSlCS regarding problems which fra- Steinmetz to join its seven-year- ternities have had with the for- old, and already faltering, Elec- t• shown Toni~ ht cign student program. He also trical Engineering department. S answered questions about the The college and its students were This evening at 7:00 P.M. and program which the students enthralled by the new profes- 9:00 P.M., two classk comedies asked. In describing the proce- sor's remarkable felicity with 1.\ will be presented in E.E. 22. dure which a fraternity must go words which defined abstract They are: Tilly's Punctured Ro- through in order to obtain a for- concepts in crystal clarity. mance and Never Give A Sucker eign student for the year, Rob- Department Head An Even Break. erts explained that the Board of Steinmetz remained until 1913 •· Tilly's Punctured Romance is Trustees grants 10 scholarships as head of the department, and the first Charlie Chaplin feature- for foreign students, four of these retained a post as an occasional length movie. Mack Sennett di- being on a four-year basis. Ap- lecturer. He died unexpectedly in rected it when it was produced p ications are received in March 1923, and was buried in Vale «tin 1914, and it contains a chas~ from the foreign students and Cemetery, Schenectady. scene with Sennett's famous Dean Lockwood and Professor The Founder's Day speakers Keystone Cops. Also appearing Roberts sort through the list and are both extremely familiar with are Marie Dressler and Mabel choose those whom they think Steinmetz and his devotion to Normand. will do best at Union. These ap- electrical engineering. Clarence <II Standard Plot plications are then submitted to Linder is a member of Union's The plot is the '\))d cliche about the fraternities for consideration. board of visitors in engineering, t'he country girl, Tilly, who is Representatives from fraternities and was associated with General lured to the big city by a \dad.\ then draw lots to decide on which Electric until his retirement as ., The city slicker <lnly wants her student will go to each house. vice president of engineering in money, of course. t\.djustment Sought 1959. He has also played an ac- Never Give A Sucker .An Even • . tive role in the development of Break is a more recent film, made Roberts ex~ressed hrs and Dean ·I engineering instruction in univer- '. in 1941. W. C. Fields stars in it, L.o~kwood's WiSh. that ~he fratel'- ·r e throughout the country. miles would begm serrously con-, Sl 1 s and is also responsible for much sidering more non-western stu- 1 Former Professo1· Speaks of the plot. Starring with Fields dents. Roberts explained that too Professor Bibber retired last are Gloria Jean and keon Errol. many fraternities tend to gravi- June from his postt in the De- 1 Fields's Most Famous tate toward the \tall blonde partment of Electrical Engineer- Fields plays a famous movie· Scandinavian\ types because I ing after twenty years at Union. comedian from Esoteric Studios. these fellows seem so much like He previously ta.ught at M.I.T. He becomes a young- girl's guard- the Americans that they will and Ohio State University. He ian. With this as his theme, (Continued on Page 3) (Continued on Page 5) .. ' Fields builds a plot around a series of comic sketches. He meets a giant gorilla, blows foam off an ice cream soda, and drives 'an elderly lady to a maternity hospital thinking she is pregnant. Of course, wherever he goes, Fields is always surrounded by 1 beautiful girls, be it in a se1·ies · of hectic plane t1·i}Js, mountain climbing, or at a Russian soil festival. This has been called W. C. Fields's funniest film . '.,, Knowledge Bowl The new Knowledge Bowl 1 ~ series, modelled after the General Electric College Bowl, began on WRUC last 'Sunday evening. In the first match, Sigma Chi beat Theta Pi by a score of 280-215. \' Each week, the winner <>f the Knowledge Bowl game will be given the WRUC \Kn~wledge Bowl,\ a large silver trophy bowl, fit to take home with them. The winner returns the following week to defend its championship against a challenger~ A team win- ning three weeks in ·a l'OW will be retired and their name en- graved on the \Kn{)wledge Bowl.\ The program is broadcast every ~ Sunday evening at 7:30. This t Sunday, Theta Delta Chi will be matched against the defending champion, ,Sigma Chi. Any fra- ternity or dorm group wishing to 1 ~ enter the Knowledge Bowl should contact Frank Maut·o at 346-9895. ''Underpants'' Opens In Nott Metnorial Professo1' Sven Peterson of Union's Philosophy department por- trays a man who falls in love with the lady on the left after she loses her underpants while viewing a parade, in tonight's produc- tion of \The Underpants.'' A Galaxy Players production of the Sternheim work presently in the Nott Memorial Theater, at 8:30 P.M. each evening until Sunday. The play is reviewed on page 3. Above: Chal'les Steinm{'tz. Below: Phillippe, ]eft, and Clarence H. Linder, right. Statistics Announced By Richard P. Sifton Jonathan M. Pearson III, Direc- tor of Admissions has announced that 1649 applications for the I Class of 1969 have been received as of the deadline date, February 1 3. Last year at the same time, 1428 applications had been re- ceived, with four weeks remain- ing to the March 1 deadline. New Admissions Policy 1 The terminal date for applica- tion was changed in order to fa- ' cilitate the operation of a new ! policy for reviewing prospective freshmen. The former system, known as a \rolling\ policy, is used at a majority of the na- tion's colleges and involves the continuous selection of freshmen as applications come in. Under the new system those applica- tions which are deemed accept- able are so marked, but final de- cisions are withheld until all ap- plications h9,ve been reviewed. This allows the admissions staff a wider selection from later ap- plications, as the total number of accepted candidates is not deter- ! mined until all cases have been I studied. Faculty on Committee In a majority of cases, the ad- missions staff decides on the ac- ceptability of candidates. Several applications are referred to the Committee on Admissions, which consists of one faculty member from each division, the Director of Alumni Relations, the Dean Eight F acuity Members To Go On Sabbaticals of Students, and Dean Theodore C. Lockwood, who serves as Chairman. The admissions staff casts one vote in such cases. Representing the divisions this year are Professors Patrick Kil- burn (I), Lawrence Abbott (II), Harold Way (III), and Edward Craig (IV). In accordance with the new policies, no notification of accept- ance, other than the 43 early de- cisions issued in the fall, will be given until sometime after March 20; the official date has not yet By Larry Briskman In the coming academic year, 1 t~e D~partment !lf Electrical En- 1965-1966, eight members of the f.meermg .and Hislop of. the Eng- faculty will be on sabbatical d:~Departmel!t are takmg leaves leave. The purpose of these I bsence th1s year. (Continued on Page 5) leaves, which aEe taken every r-----------------------------. seven years, is to allow the fac- ulty to keep up with the new work being done in their respectiv~ fields and to allow them to un-~· dertake independent 1•esearch. Dr. Martin Writes Open Student Letter Professors on sabbaticals next year include: Professors Winne and Mozley of the Biology De-~ partment; Finkelstein of the His- To the Editor of Concordiensis: tory Department; Murphy of the It is far too early for me to be making policy statements English Department; Klemm of • the Department of Modern Lang- i about Union College, but it i's natural for you and other studer1ts uages; Schick of the Physics De- 1 to wonder about the kind of person the Trustees have elected to partment; Gillette of the Math- · the presidency. Therefore I shall gladly take advantage of your ematics Department; and Good- invitation to write a column for the Concordiensis. heart of the Department of Elec- trical Engineering . Winne to Mexico Professor Winne, who joined 1 the faculty in 1946, received his 1 doctorate from Cornell Univer- sity in 1947 and is presently the acting chairman of the Biology 1 Department in the absence of Professor Clark who is on sab..o batical this year. Winne plans to do a taxonomical survey of a certain region in Mexico for Southern Methodist University. The year following his sabbwtical will be his last year as a member of the faculty. Professor Finkelstein, who\ joined the faculty in 1946 and subsequently took a four year leave of absence to obtain his doctorate from Harvard Univer- sity in 1952, plans to return to Harvard to do work in economics next yea1·. All professors who take sab- baticals for an entire year receive half pay for the year. Professors can take a one semester sabbatical at full pay as Dr. Johnson of the Department of Religion did last year. Promise Apparent Everywhere . Union College as you know i,t, from the inside, is a place I still have to learn about. If, however, it bears out the perspective through which I was attracted to it, my tenure should be a re- ~arding one. What impresses ahove all, fl'ofil that perspective, Is the latent power and the promise everywhere apparent. The faculty is a strong one, mature, well-educated, and independent of mind. Judged by official records, the student-body is able, and diversified, and it is app·arently full of ferment. Any president- to-be would be cheered by the prospect of working with a man as imaginative and vig·orous as Dean Lockwood; and 1·eas'fmred by the knowledge that the arministrative corps is experienced, effici- ent, and geared to move ahead in support of a strong academic program. And the affection Union men have for the college - alumni, trustees, and faculty - is the ultimately convincing testi- mony to its character and quality. All those things you already know, but in the day-by-day busines's of getting an education you may not give them much thought. They impress an outsider, I can assm·e you. Admittedly they do not tell you anything about me, except insofar as by singling them out I indicate the kinds of data I was looking for when I visited the campus. Perhaps, then, the best way for me to provide something more direct i's to answer, or at least talk in response to, a pair of questions I faced repeatedly, from faculty and trustees, while I was a candidate. Lively <Alrpses Professors on sabbatical in the current academic year include The first question, quite clearly, was meant to draw me out, Bradbury of the English Depart- but it's a good question all the same: What do you think is the ment, Clark of the Biology De- future of the small liberal arts college? Your readers probably partment, Weick of the Ohemis- know that the demise of such colleges has been predicted quite try Department, Mercer of the ' Economics Depat•tment, and Goble regularly ever since the end of World War II. I share Mark of the Physics Department. In 1 (Continued on Page 2) addition, Professors Gunshor of,~------------------------------!

2 Dr. Martin Writes Open Student Letter (Continued from Page 1) Twain'::; wry view of ::;uch premature obituaries. Without for a moment c.li::;counting the reul difficuHie:; - ri's·ing ro::ts, C0mpl'ti- tion for good students, even fien!er competition for good addition::; to fneulty - I C'an at least point ou:t that none of the difficulties i::; u new une; and point out, ton, that most good :::maN collej?;li'S ure appreeiahl~· ,;rouger now than they wc:t·e twenty year~ ago. If corpseR, tl1C'y are lively ~nes. More important in the long mn than even the present appear- ance of hPalth are signs that point to the next decade. What- ever the unrest on large universi:ty c-ampuses, in California and elsewhere may, not mean, i:t is quite clear that it does mean some- thing about students' views of what an education should be. On this :;core, it is the sprawling unh·et·sity and not the ·small college that i::; in tJUuble, aml the tr,JUble is of a kinu thtJse ,·ast enh•r- prises are going to have real difficulty overcoming. The sma1l college cannot be complacent, but it has no reason at ali to feel that it~ cause i::; a lo'sing one. Storehouse of 'Sourishment The second question, What kind of colleg·e do you think Vuion ought to become?, is onl' I could not entirely dodge as a candidate, and it is one l have no intention of hanging myself by as president-elect. But it is the vital question for you, and I shall at l~ast 'set dmvn some gem~ral notions that bear on it. A specific answer to the question depends, of course, on much more partic- ular knowledge than I now have, and it would in any event be heavily conditioned by several matters. One hundred and seventy yea1·s of vigorous academic history have something to do with the answer; the talents and special interest of the cur1·ent faculty have even more; the kinds of students for whom the college has in recent years proved to offer a good climate for learning weigh in the account; and even the way the world wags must be put into the scale. The principa1 danger any small college faces is that of becoming parochial. limited in its program, its outloo·k, Hs self-regard; quite obYiously I believe Union College should avoid that like the plague. I don't want to sing the old song about liberal education: the tune is too familiar, and the words have had ;o:o manv tram;lations they have lost most of theit· savor. But I do belie~·c that it is the primary responsibility of any good college to be :;torehou::;e and purveyor of intellectual nourishment in many differing ways_ Healthy men, especially young men, reach as naturally for food that wiH nourish their intellect and character as ,plants reach for light, hut they vary greatly in the ways by which they best absorb and transform it into energy. While no small college can afford as much variety in courses and depart- ments as a university, it can in very large measure make up fm the difference by inventiveness in means. Th~ work Dean Lock- wood and his faculty curriculum committee have been doing for the past year show's hm.v fully members of the ~nion f.aculty recognize that innovation is as much a part of WISe policy as holding fast to what is good. What kind of college l:\nion becomes in the next deeade Union will deride: its trustees and alumni by their support, its students bv th~ir expectations, its faculty by their courage and talent. M~· role will hl' to art as the vehicle for transforming these seYeral intangibles into another that expresses them all - call it \Union\ lower-case as well as upper-. I shall bring all I know and h:ve and am to that role, one I look forward to vv:ith an exhilarating, if at the moment unsettling, mixture of elation and awe. Harold C. Martin. Cambridge, MassachusE>tt's Feb1·uary 13, 1965 Boulevard Bowl 135 ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES Down to Louis', let us go, Let the la~er freely flow. - .... - ____ ......... _~ .... -- ...... ,., A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1 895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Lar~e parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR .4-8917 Mother Ferro's Restaurant Specializing In Italian • American food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1 i 15 Barrett St. .: .... Friday, February 19, 1965 Book Review: II Sugar 'n Spice By Paul Sherwin 1'----------------------------------------~1 Terry Southern and Mason Hoffenberg have, in Candy, attempted to create a work, both unserious and purposeful, both un-pornog- raphic and dirty as hell. In 19fiR, Candy was published by Pads' Olympia Press, an organization noted for its bold excursions in the realm of off-color literature, some good (such as Nobokov's Lolita), some grand.Jy godawful. Southern anct Hoffenberg's droll little sugarplum of a farcical tale received the dubious and rare distinc- tion of being banned by the French Government on grounds of in- decency; whet·eupon, it was reissued under the equally-innocent title, of Lolipop. Now that an American publisher has taken. Candy to his bosom and is spreading he1• delightful adventures among the book- '•' . shelves of America:, it seems a curi01:1sly amusing task to examine . this novel which is sure to raise eyebrows and anathemas in all . cloi'stered quarters. The Thrilling Privilege Candy Christian, a glad-minded coed who believes all she reads , and is told, takes her pun•ti£'s off to a sorrlidly-assorted group of idiots, no-goodniks and mystics, as Candy proceeds under and from . cover to, cover. Well-versed in the cliches of the mo'st timely tenets 'VI of liberal intellectualism - Freudian Psychology, Zen Buddhism, STUK~NED, David T01nlinson watches in amazement as Julie An- Minorities - Candy strives to, quite unassumingly, regulate her life drews invites two chimney sweeps into his home, in Walt Disney's according to their idealized preachings. In keeping with her good- \.1\Iary Poppins.\' will attitude towards the world's poor and unfortunate, our heroine takes the most improbable lovers - Derel{, a cretin with a raddish- Ill> Disney~s Sexless 'Mary Poppins!t But Delightful ·white hunchback (a superminority of one); Mephe·sto (obvious play on:Mephestopheles) the mad professor; Irving Krankeit the mad • psychiatrist (author .of 'Masturbation Now!\); a mad Buddhist monk ·and several other white-slavish characters and gnomes. Mephesto, in •\l a highly amusing episode, advise·s his promising young debauchee over an aphrodisiac sherry in his study that to give one-self-fully-to another is a thriHing privilege. However, despite the :preoccupation with sexual subjects, Candy seems strongly anti-sexual in inany • parts. More often than not, Candy, with an \Ouf!\ or a \Good By Joel Lowenstein Question: What is more sexless than a Walt Disney movie? Answer: A telephone book. Those who are able to sit through two and a half hours of sheer delight without having a nervous breakdown should not miss this week's offering at the Proctor's Theatre: for, indeed, \Mary Poppins\ may well be the greatest achievement in the long and distinguished career of Walt Disney, which is more praise than one could muster in forty col- umns. If, however, one feels that he cannot sit through a movie devoid of sex, the only possible answer is to 1•ead some Freud and keep your eye on the Um- brella. The cast of the movie is un- typically excellent wi,th Dick Van Dycke and Julie Andrews in the leading roles. The only draw- back is a somewhat juvenile plot_ The setting is London in 1910 when \King Edward was on the throne and a man was a man.\ A fine British home is having difficulty with their children's Nanny. Father (David Tomlin- son) is a hard-boiled bank execu- tive whose answer is s•ternness- Mother, a suffragette, played by Glynnis Johns, is uncertain_ Nanny (Elsa Lanchester) quits, to everyone's pleasure, and the children have their own notion of what they'd like for their next nurse. They pLtt it in writing but Father tears it up. Fortunately for the children the scraps fly out the chimney and are gathered by Mary Poppins (Julie Andrews) who happens to be flying over the area. Mary decides the job is for her and drops in on them. The supporting cast is especi- al!y fine, being bolstered by such ''old pros\ as Ed Wynn and Ar- thur Treacher. This reviewer found a depressing moment, how- ever, in the presence of former g·reat, Jane Darwell, :playing a Grief!\ 'slips back into her panties, leaving her admirers holding very small bit-part. Perhaps the the bag. outstanding performance is M1•. ·. Spoofing Modern Pornography Van Dyke's, as the jack-of-all- ~> trades, Bert; but Miss Andrews Is Candy satanic? It is well-known and obvious that the auth- is ce 11 tainly nothing short of Ol'S of this all-too-misunderstood fantasy intended a spoof on the superb. modern poronographic novel. It is, as well, a spoof on some false elements {)f \inteHectualisrn.\ Such a view as that expre·ssed con- More characters are introduced· cerning debauchery - mystical self-realization and service to others '\ as the plot (if it is a plot) begins - clearly reveal this purpose of Southern and Hoffenberg. But, to thicken and unlikely events since this sort of satire is neither new nor particularly daring, let hegin to transpire. The fantastic me return to that aspect of Candy which is both new and daring. if \unlikelys\ provide the Disney As satire, the novel doe·s not even approach grand stature. At best, $ studios with vehicl~s for music it can be said to be sometimes brazenly and sometimes cutely humor- and photography wh1ch even they ous. That element of the work which has brought it overwhelming have not matched before. In the success and will no doubt continue to do so is its abundance of sex- enrl, Mary Poppins .teaches every- I terms and \loose·' episodes. The novel's denouement is easily the on~ ~?-ow to enJOY ltfe and be g~y 1 most marvellously scabrous one in the history of modem letters. 6) (dictionary sense). B~fore .this, Thtre ure many who consider the humor of Candy wickedly funny. ~owever, Mary an.d fnends JUmp I do not think so. But that is not the point. If as many maintain, l!JtO a pastel dr~wmg ?f. the Eng- it is brilliant satire, it might prove morally bracing as only good l1sh country-stde, visit Un~le sath·e can be. This is the1 a·spect of the novel which must be con- ·~ Albert, a gentleman who fhes sidered seriously and intelligently. Candy is, in fact, more outrage- away when he begi11s to laugh,· ous than satirical - something which is not easy .to be and cause a run 011 a London But, is this sort of exaggerated sensuali·sm justifia.ble? Sinee this bank. Although not •at all un- novel is of no great literary merit, it is quite unlikely that its ~ pleasant, some of these elements existence will be threatened in the court rooms. Candy precariously are unoriginal. This is also true skates along the thin line between outright .pornography and light- of Mr. Tomlinson, wbo is, unfor- hearted fun. In the opinion of this reviewer it partakes of both. tunately, at times simply a poor ' man's Terry-Thomas. Smooth, Disastrous, Interesting The movie also contains the The texture of Candy is remarkably even, though Southern and Mary Poppins philosophy which Hoffenberg wmte alte1•nately. As a piece of literatu1·e, it is hor- we all learn to be hog-wash as renduus. As an exposition of many of the false prejudices of modern soon as we are able to read American society, it is interesting. As a moral tract, it is enlight- \' the Mary Poppins stories our- ened as well as repul·sive. One's opinion of Candy \\ill, more than selves. This is contained in .some most books, be affected by the r£'ader's sensitivity and moral valu€s. pretty songs such as \a spoon Try Candy - if it is found to be sweet, devour and laugh; if it full of sugar makes the medicine turns sour, place in the nearest garbage pail. go down\ (an out and out lie) and \chim-chim-e-ney chim chim charee a sweep is as lucky a.s lucky can be\ (something on which I am unable to speak). The movie is, however, comr.letely worth an evening for its amuse- ment value and should not be • missed. ! I Patronize Our Advertisers Have been recommending HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Maurice B. Granbart & Sons • Friday, F l5nion ::;tudents. the books facilities - • can alway: ::;eeks in Vl does not k But a be, It she be to preJ • quent life one of thE task. The thh; aspe<.: a topic, l • If yo1 the answe • mistake; predate tl the week- Let rr the view • in which ill-founde< ·-that gi The third • female se: A giri ca instances can get f \' well lean Girls • do not bu Have yot That seer the Not-w \date.\ l I girls, I sl In tl about It2 refuted. 1 sion is a straints : not have to tell wl that the • to. girls. How institutio ~ through i absolute I: breathin,f! ment is ' Fridays which ar' with gil'l called it' • One that my true. No cameras • I should • course, Il defecbs <: there are Due Pipers, 1 • participa next ye2 the four a succes 'fl being he ary 24, 2 Jnte Steve Tl Tff¥fi ~STU • C< .t'3 Union Graduates in Graubarf Family'' 166 JAY ST_ 1\'!. d ... • Cc YOUR JEWELER AWAY FROM HOME VAH CURLER MUSIC SHOP 501 State Street RECORDS JAZZ POPS MUSIC Student Discounts CLASSICS lUU. know gou're smart ... but what about the folks· back home? Wl1en ypu smash an exam, share the glory. Phone the family and bask in ever-loving praise. Remember, a tele- phone call is the next best thing to being there. ~~~! !~~~h!e~!~~~~! ,, .. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY The GALLEY 1735 VanVranken Avenue Phone 346-1251 LARGEST IN TOWN 1Sc HAMBURGER HOT DOGS 15c (with meat sauce 19c FISH FRYS ______________________ 20c French Fries ___________________ - 12c Thick Shal<es ___________________ 20c Pizza and Dinners To Take Out! CAMPUS BOOKSTORE ' SENIORS Have You Ordered A Ring?- Do So Now! Delivery Takes About Seven Weeks r. ,, •• '.; STl Sch41 I • • 4 f I

1965 I • Pm·is' in the little of in- title, to his book- ''' in all reads of d from tenets .., life good- llll play mad t monk in •\l inany ~ \Good f) auth- on the false con- others '\ But, let daring. best, $ humor- of sex- the ,._ letters. \' funny. good be con- •'b • to be this its ~ light- a.ncl is hor- modern than values. ' if it TER ns ~ <') ~ t9 3 Reflections: Changing Africa: Never On Weekdays Gambian Nationhood By L. 0. Sanneh By Stale Eskeland • Unio~ College is a school with excellent opportunities for her students. The student who is .willing to offer most of his time on the hooks. must in,deed receive a very good education. The study facilities- as far as I ha\'e experienced- are •almost flawless. You • can always fin,d an empty seat in the library, and that student who :;eeks in vain for materwl here must surely be a thorough one (or he does not know how to use the index cards). I belong to that f0ssi.Jised species of gossip-loathers. I don't enjoy go·ssip, my preferences are few indeed, and I have no desire to be \somebody\ irt this world. I am alre~dy somebody, like it or not. I am not impressed by size or number, too often offended by braggarts because I am one myself, and seldom attracted to con- ventional pleasures. I admire qualities of the mi·nd, e;:;pecially beaut~·. and I can't stand noise or \party\ atmospheres. If anyone asked me where I came from, I 'vould answer Gambia, West Africa, and hope the matter ends there. As so often it does not, I trust what I will say below wHl be aU that is needed to be said for my part. Not that I want to be unfriendly when I say self-trumpet blowel'S drive me to the wall. The point is, they bore me, believe me, and with just myself I find it enough t0 cope w~th. More Than Books But a school is more than ·a vocational institution - or should be, It should be a living community '.\·hose primary function should be to prepare its inhabitants in the best possible way for a subse- t quent life - academically as wel:l as humanly. Union Col~ege lac~s one of the ilnportant facto:r:s whtch would enable he1· to fulfill th1s task. Thel'e are no girl's at Union College. I want to focus upon thh; a~ped 0f Cllion in the next few paragraphti. By choo'::iin~ .,;uch a topic, I might also hope fur a Ct.!rtain response. Ig·norant Americans I have run into people ll'ho say after I haw told them where ;I f'ome from, \Oh yes! that country became independent a few months ago. What wa.s its name before that time (behaving as if they knew, but that memory, as usual, has suddenly let them down) ? \ The sight is funny, and sometime's I am tempted to hold out just so this unsolicited drama could continue to thaw me. After the chorus, the sequel is also entertaining. \The Gambia has had its name for over 500 years,\ I would say. \As far as I know i·t has never changed. Perhaps you are confusing it with Zambia,\ I would plead. \What name was given a few weeks ago.\ \That's right,\ they would rejoin rather triumpha.ntly. \You see, things are happening- so fast in Africa, one can barely catch one's breath,\ they would say, as if the pace of events, and not their ignorance, was to blame. Needles·s to say, Gambia has not been happening fast. A b1·oad, if repelling, confidence is cast over their fare, a confidence that is aimed to ex- pose you as the guilty party, while excusing their lack of adequate information, and even moralising their culpability. But so much fo1· thrse people. Every clog will have his day. • Big l\1istake I BUT Where Are the Underpants? If you ask .the question, Why did you choose a men's school.?, I--------------~~--------~~~-- the answers can be narrowed down to three types. 1. I made a big Cl · R • e mistake· 2. Girls would interfere with my studies; and 3, I ap- · e ...,.... en t S e 'l) JeWS preciate' the girls more on weekends when I cannot see them during · II /6.1 the week. Th u d ,, Let me comment on these s.ta:tements. The first group expresses tf.( e n . e rp a n ts the view that women are an important part of any human society . . . • in which I fully agree. The second answer I will reject as rather By Prof. Bruce Clements ill-founded. It is my experience - from a co-educational university ·- .that girls rather than being an impediment often are a stimulus. Carl Sternheirn's The Under- 1 moral precision and satisfaction. The third category uf answers expresses a distorted view on the pallts (Die Hose), which opened I Physically he is just right, .and • female sex in my opinion. Gi·rls are much more than sexual crea·tures. at the Nott Memorial Theatre 1 when, toward the end of the play, A giri can he a friend on the same basi's as a boy, and in some Th.ursday evening in a Galaxy' he defends his narrowness, he's instances a better friend hecause she is a girl. Needless to say, one Players production \under the even persuasive. Still, there's too can get fed up with girls - as with boys. But one cannot very direction and supervision\ of Wil- much of the Babbitt in hirn. Jinx • well learn to know a g-il'l on a one night-a-week-basis. lia.m Meriwether and Samuel Lindenauer's wife gathers convic- :.VIake Haste Slowly Mmrell is a comic examination tion as she goes along until, 1Jy The rather broad and comfortable view that \things are hap- Girls Are Commodities of early twentieth cellitury Ger- the last act, she is .a person w:,ho~e pening fast in Africa\ is very misleading. Not that this pa.rticular Girls here are almo::;t commodities, with the difference that you man society. The play takes place return from mormng Mass 18 1fl statement is false, but that, like all uneducated delineation of phe- do not buy them - literally - hut rather pick them. The question, in the apartment of a middle-~ the right key. Physically, David nomena, it is too true for those making it to gmsp. The coming in- • Have you got a date is not very often followed by, Who is it? class couple, o;.e year married, Isaacson is wrong for the feeble dependence of the Gambia is one of those astonishing and well-nigh That seems to be of minor impot-tance. May be it is significant that Heerund Frau Maske. Order, Hert· Mandelsrtam, but he has a incn~dible cards that anyone could dig out fl'Om the imperial col- the Norwegian languag-e does not have an equivalent for th!'J w~:n·d physical health, racial purity,l comic sense and a chance to lectiun bag, rapidly shrinking though it was. Not that the Gambia \date.\ In spite of rumors I have heard about the Scandmavtan money, and discretion are Herr I cl()wn, so he's fun to watch. Sven i:> too much of u tiny piece-though this may be true-but that it e girls, I still believe that they are individual's and not only dates. Maske's gods. Frau Mas'l<:e, the Peterson's Hen Scarron, the remained in the bag for a long time, ;;o long, in fact, that it got In the last number of Concordiensis Giuseppi Ruggieri wrote child of a long line of tailors, questing spirit full of Nietschean stuck to the bottom. But for the fact that big rats have nibbled about Italian men and theil· alleged sexual obsession - which he is well built, silly, and full of cliches and a taste for the bizal'Te, away much of the bag, and that the ownet· now intends to overhaul refuted. Among other things, he made the point. that .sexual obses- the visions of housemaid's litera-J needs to allow that spirit to it, the Gambia would still occupy that comer which age and time have 1 .sion is a phenomenon bow1d to an abnormal ·soctety (t.e. whe1·e re- ture, yet essentially as much a trm;sport. hi~ a bit more, es- consecrated. If we may push the analogy and rake in a new one, straints are put on human relationship between the sexes). I do bourgeoise as her man. pecmlly m his longer speeehes. perhap:; something of the nature of the situation may come to light. not have adequate insight in the Union students' mental situation · · b L · Rene Dufour's Stranger is ade- In emptJ·ing the contents of the bag the complements had to find a to tell whether their minds are obsessed by sex or not, but I do feel The play IS set gomg · y ms.e quate and that's all he needs to place to lay, if not their whole body, at least their head. The Gambia that the environment affects their attitude towards and relationship Maske's underpants, whiCh acci- be ' was not a big enough g.irl for mother to assign her to a room all by • to girls. de~tly fall down. on the sidewalk in sum, The UnderJJants, is a herself, yet not so small as to require a full-time babysitter. The Peculiat· Relationships wh~le , she strams. to see t~e play with a good deal of edge cradle may crush her, the open bed may endanger her safety. This How do Union students get in contact with girls? That peculiar Katse~· s coach go · by. Th!s which is played well and, in is the problem in a nutshell . h shockmg and provocatrye event IS places be.tter than that. institution \sour hour\ is one way. For those who ave not gone seen by ,two men. One IS Scarron, ' Guise of NationhoDd 1\ through it: I will explain. A fahly spacious bar in Saratoga Springs, a disciple of Nietzsche with a absolutely jammed with boy~ and Skidmore ~his, any dr~nk 35 ce~ts, tl~oroughly superficial notion of IF C But the leaders of the Gambia, like the doting parents of a bl'eathing, talking and hearmg extremely. difficult. (Thi·s. advertise- his master's ideas. Believing him- • • • problematic giru, insist she must attain pre-eminence in the guise ment is free). No·w, I will try to be fa1r- sour hou.r IS only on self to be one, he celebrates the l) of full nationhood. \Alright say the age old guardians, \nationhood P M A h t . th th b (Continued from Page • Fridays from 4- 6 . . t ot e:t: tme·s ~me. ga ers m o ~r a~·s special rights of the spiritually you may have, but you are an attractive spinster, and a handsome which are not that crowded. Is this a ba~ts f,~r a s~und r<:latwnspt~ strong and gifted. The other wit- have an easy adjustment to the suitor has expressed interest in you. It will be in your own interest with gids, and can it ever be \dcdrarnattzed as Gmseppt Ruggien I ness is Benjamin Mandels.tam, a members of the fraternity. to give your neck in marriag.e.\ Hence the Senegalo-Gambia 'U.N. • called it? . I barber with romantic hopes and Professor Roberts explained Mission, which merely spelt out the nature of this amusing (and, for Mistaken StereotyJ)es weak lungs. Both men rent ~hat, ~or the fo_r~ign student ~ay- the suited, sometimes embarrassing) courtship. The Gamhia, thoug.h One of the things I discovered when I first came over here was 1 rooms in the Maske apartment in mg h1s first VJSJt to the p-mted small, is no longer a virgin, and she is shy of giving in again, de- that my generalizations concerning Americans were very often un- order to make love to the Haus- 1 States, .the first month ts . tf!e spite the encoU1·aging lesson of Cleopatra. That is the second pro·b- true. Not every American is fat, weal'S blue glasses, and has three fr-au I most d1fficult, and fratermttes lem-the facts of reality and the dictates of conscience and pride. cameras resting on his belly. I concede th~t I .have. violat.ed what • d h • should go out of their way to • I should have learned from that ob'servatwn m th1s artiCle. Of The Un erpants, t en IS a make this month as pleasant as Grumbling and Growly course most students graduate f1·om Union without serious mental st_ory of a~emp~ed cuckoldry~ possible so that the students may defe nt·s' or contact problems. But it bothers me (and others) that w1th two smtors mstead. of th make a speedy adjustment to Cast in a continent that is still groaning-and grumbling~s a ' usual one In such stones the · re'sult of forei!!'n subJ\ugation The Gambia is determined to add to thel ·e a1·e no girls around. . · their new envil·oment. - • Pipers Offer Auditions Due to the imminent graduation of senior members, the Dutch Pipers Union's vocal octet, at·e now beginning their organization of • particfpants and plans for the remainder of the semester and for next year. All men with musical ability and the desire to spend the four or five hours a week l'ehearsing to make the Dutch Pipers a successful singing group are invited t() audition. Auditions are 'II being held Tuesday, February 23, at 11:30 and Wednesday, Febru- husband IS usually a fool and a this concert of outspokeness. It if? an end to alien rule-a death, if clumsy inadequate, distinterested Dorm Houses ~ay . you like, of the old husband in whose rome there was little equali-ty . l()ver. Since sexuality is the driv- A problen: concernmg foreJgn The wedding, for one thing, was forced, the dowry extracted was ing force in a cuckold's story, stude_nts whtch was broug!tt up inhuman, so the divorce must pay for these setbacks. Everything whatever distracts him-business, by D1ck Powell of Delt~ Ch1, c1ln- is now set, and what remains i's to see how expensive the funeral war, the demands of family, c~rns the new fratermty dorms is going to be. social forms, or old age-must he Smce rent for each ~embm· of ridiculed. But The Underpants is the house IS payed dll'ectly to not the usual kind of cuckold the college, the brothers of these story. In it everything is ridiculed. houses must pay ren~ to the col- T'h -r . f damentally ·as lege for the1r fore1gn .. student Ostrich Attitude e . WI e, un hu band ets Professor Roberts ex.plamed that Tom Hitchcock at Chi Psi or conventional as ~er s ' g under the present college policy, all her se:;;ual kiCks short of the this is a condition which cannot ary 24, at 4:30, in Old Chapel. Interested students may contact extra-martial sexual encounter. b h d Tlw sexual drive of the pseudo- e c angel · d h s· Nietzschean turns out to be di- ~eter B u~ accepte t e Igma RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT rected entirely toward himself. Ch1 F_oundatJon Award ~n beh.alf Steve Thompson at 372-7504 . • ~· s7uo'EN'T 'iiiitiii:i.' • College Tours !\'!. d ... • College Study Programs FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES BAR SUPPLIES POLYETHELENE DRUG SUNDRIES A.nd the weak-ll,lng~d Mandel- o.f Ph1 Gamma De~ta. Thts awa1·d, NOTIONS stam gets a good night's sleep glVen at nume1 ~us canYp~ses NOVELTIES only by being left alone. The throu_g~out the ~at10n, was given And if the truth be allowed, for the Gambia it will be inordin- a·tely expensive, in fact so exorbitant that the very protagonists are burying their face in the sand against 'the day of reckoning'- whenever this is. Even n<>w The Gambia finds its job enough to wel- come the guests in the guestchambers. S.he is nervous because as hostess nothing is more embarrassing to her than her guests tread- ing on one another's toes in a congested atmosphere. But the exper- ience may be good for her. If she can accommodate all her guests on February 18, she will have demonstrated her capacity, not just for mere physical space, but for nmning ~ very decisive <)how at a very crucial ·stage in her history. Pi'ime Minister Dr. D. K. Jawara will also have delivered the coup de grace to the fine qualities of honest and responsible leadership so significantly characteristic of his regime. RY r. 8l ,. '.; STUDENT & FACULTY GROUP TOURS Arra~ged ot LOWEST PRICES . CELLOPHANE RENTALS: GLASSWARE DISHES SILVERWARE husband, in a fom,th act switch to Figi for haymg the greate~t that affirms the double standard per~entage 0 ~ lts memb~1·s gam of the bourgeois householder, ne- thetr academic degrees m l!Hl3- otiates a neighbor woman into 1964. ~is bed. Having made a mistress Books Now open for Spring and Summer Vacations Schenectady Travel Bureau, Inc. E:~t. 1930 . DACY PAPER CO. Successor to J. NOGEE & SONS, Inc. Established 1888 WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS PAPER-PAPER BAGS STATIONERY- SCHOOL sUPPLIES of his wife's best friend, he be- gins businesslike negotiations with his wife for the conception of a child. Everything finally comes back to the neat and the respectable, but in the passage of the play the whole of society has been ridiculed. When The Underpants was first performed in 1911, Sternheiin SCHENECTADY,.N. Y. \Vas forced to rename it The PHONE FR 7-8506 • Phone FR 4-4429 Giant (Der Riese) in order not to 424 STATE ST. Agents For All Leading 28-34 N. Broadway <>ifend his public's moral sensitiv- Airlines - Steam Ship - Rail- • ity. We are not so easily shocked, roads and Car Rental Cos. Schenectady 5 ' N. Y. hut our moral pretentious are no ··•;;:• ;·~·~.,~·~ ... ;:;·~·~·~·;:;· ~·~·~·;;· ~· ~·~·;;:· ~·~·~~~~;;~;:;=~~;=;:;:;=;:;~~~- less ridiculous. Played intelligent- ;, , , , , , , , , .., .. , • • .. •, • , , .. , , , • .. , , ~\ • • • • • • • • • • .. • • • ly and imaginatively, The Unde•·- llants should be entertaining and DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118. 120 JAY STREET •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• provocative. On the whole this production works. The stage is furnished with the propel' lack of distinc- tion. The beer hall music which opens and closes the four acts strikes the right note of regi- rnented gaiety. Herr Maske should be played as a man who is self-righteous in a thoroughly Prussian way-the kind of man who seduces a woman like a Ber- lin policeman directs trafft.c. Mr. Gado's Herr Maske doesn't dem- onstrarte this exalted sense of Reduce Cost Robert Francello moved tha.t the rushing card fee be reduced from its present price of $5 to $1. Francello pointed out that, since it is the I.F.C.'s aim rto sell the fraternity system to the freshmen, a high-priced rush ca1•d such as this is a detriment to nis purpose. Since the I.F.C does have a surplus in its treas- ury, he felt that clta1·ging this much for a rush card was foolish The motion was taMed until the expenses for the rushing booklet as well as other expenses of the I.F.C. could be more accumtely determined. Gary Morris announced that ,. the Student Council will sponsor a Jazz Weekend and he asked for I.F.C. opinion on Charlie Byrd as the featured talent for the weekend. The response was poor. Dan Prigmore announced that all freshmen taking meals at fra- ternity houses should obtain a special meal ticket from West College. He also appointed the rushing rules committee and an- nounced that a letter will be sent to Dr. Harold Martin, newly- ap- pointed college president, welcom- ing him on behalf of the fratern- ity system. L. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or Call Fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N.Y. 13210 1961 RED RENAULT DAUPHINE 19,500 miles Radio and Heater $550 CALL IV 9-4197 RITZ REST AU RANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring - HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week

Friday, February 19, 19'65 friday, f, 4 .. , ~---- (lJ,nurnr Published Fridays during the school year by the Student BodY ot Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na· tiona! Advertising Representative: National Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave., N. Y. C. Editorial Office. Old Gym, Union Ce>llege. Publication Office, Sche- nectady Printing Company, 5Q2 Broadway. Entered in the Sche- nectady Post Office as Second Class Mall Matter. Subscription 15c a copy: $II a year delivered anywhere In the Uni led States. ~H;SIOR BOARD LARRY HOROWITZ '65 ................ 346-9895 ........................................... Editor-in-Cbief MARK OBENZINGER '65 ............ 016-99!;9 ................................ Business Mnnager RICHARD ARON '65 ...................... 016-984 8 ..................................... !llannging Editor HOBEWr 1'. H<H•'F~L\:-: 'illo I•'eatures F.ditor RIC!L\Rn f\IFTO:-: '66 - .... Kews Editor RICHARD RBRC'H '66. ... .... .. ...................... .Sports ·Editor WILLIAM T. WINNE '34....... ..... .......... .... .. . .......................... Faculty Advisor More on the Poll The Course Evaluation Poll, being the first of its kind to be attempted on this campus, naturally had some weak- nesses in it. But it was more accurate than some people give it credit for. No matter how vague or poor the word- ing, the general attitude of the students towards the vari- ous courses came through. This is especially true at the limits of the evaluation range. The poll was not conducted with the intention of em- barrassing any people. We knew how-ever that some em- barrassment was inevitable. But a college that lives in fear of stepping on anyone's toes, even when those toes need to be stepped on, will never achieve any measure of academic excellence. It boils down to whether trying very hard is enough to excuse a low level of teaching ability. Also is there any correlation between knowledge of a field and teaching ability? The answers to these questions must be decided upon before one can make logical choices in the granting of tenure. We would prefer teaching ability to be given highest ranking in the list of qualifications. We conducted this poll to give the administration the student's point of view on this matter. Dean Lockwood has his own way of enlarging upon his knowledge of this subject. The way the information gleaned from the results is put to use depends in part on our standards for teaching at this college and on how much fear we have of hurting feelings. Can~pus Calendar February 19-Film Series~\Tilly's Punctured Romance\ and \Never Give a Sucker an Even Break.\ EE-22 7:00 and 9:00 P.M. February 20-Wrestling·-Union vs. Clarkson. February 23-S.C Meeting, Hale House Lounge, 8:30 P.M. Februat·y 24-Wre&tling- (F)-Union vs. Trinity, 2:30 P.M. Wrestling-Union vs. Trinity, 3:15 P.M. BasketbaH (F)-Union vs. RPl, 6:15 P.M. Basketball-Union vs. &PI 8:00P.M. February 25-Convocation-Founder's Day, 11:30 P .1\1. Memo1'iai Chapel. February 18- thru Feb. 21-Gala.xy Players' Present \The Underpants'\- Nott :Nlemorial, 8:30 P.M. Letters to the Editor To the Editor of Conco1·diensis: I think your course-evaluation poll is a. commendable idea. Stu- dent opinion should be a key cri- terion in judging· the quality of teaching. When students fee-l they are not learning, it is ques- tiopable whether good teaching is gomg on. But we have long had student opinion. The value of a poll de- pends on its accuracy and its power of dissemination and stim- ulation of thought and discussion. Your laudable firs.t attempt itself needs to be evaluated. Your editorial probably nomi- nates me as a can-didate for poor- est le-cturer, and therefore, poor- est teacher, on the campus. In the interests of accuracy the rec- ord should show that the sections: Psychology 1, 11 :and 25 were nut lecture courses. The chief class- room processes were student re- ports and discussion. You can readily see that the format of your poll seriously distorts the results on these ·sections. possibly there should be a student rom1~1i·ttee on faculty standings. Po-ssibly we should grant tenure to tho·se students with below minimum index with the under- standing that they are to gradu- ate by the age of 65. Perhaps there should be a mid- semester poll for those on warn- ing, and perhaps we should stop reminding ourselves of Union a century ago. Eliphalett Nott is dead, but perhaps if W€ -..vere to pry open his grave, he might wink at us students. A typical letter to a failing professor might read: February 12, 1965 Professor Union College Schenectady, New YQrk Dear Professor·---- A review Qf the grades which you have received for the un- official marking perietd just completed suggests that you have not made the tutorial progress that you sh()uld have. We are writing now to remind you of the implications such a record may hold fo1• June. WRUC Schedule Monday thru Saturday- 7 to 9 A.~\1,-Live Breakfast Show 9 to 12 A.M.-Programmed Music thr\ ?~l<lav- 12 to 1 P.M.-The top 15 songs of the week, f()Howing. live news and ski t•eport at noon. 1 to 5 P.M.-Programmed Music 4 to 5 P.M.-Live mu.sic show 5 to 6 P.M.-Live mu·sic show 6 to 7 P.M.-Bob Michaels Show, follow- ing news at 6. 7 to 8 P.M.-Bob Rice (Mon., Wed., Thurs.), Bob Heine (Tues., Fri.) thcru Thursday- 8 to 9 P.M.-Folk Shmv, by Request 9 to 10 P.M.-Michel, The French Show 10 to 11 P.M.-\ Solid Gold\ 11 to 12 P.M.-Charlie P, live from the Rathskellar (Mon. a.nd Wed) Bob l3linn and George Schultz (Tues. and Thurs.) ., 12 to 1 A.M.-The Squirrel (thru Friday) •lJI- Friday 8 to 10 A.M.-In the Groove with Greg 10 to 12 A.M.-Jazz Forum Saturday ~nd Sunday - 12 to 2 P.M.-Sign on and popular music •lll 2 to 4 P.M~-Classical Music Sunday- only 4 to 7:30 P.M.-Rock and Roll 7:30 tet 8 P.M.-\Knawledge Bowl\ ~- 8 to 12 P.M.-Rock and Roll 12 to 2 P.M.-Golden Oldies with Mark Polansky Maj()I• News Broadcasts, Daily-8 A.M., noon, 6 P.M., 8 P.M., 9 P.M., 11 P.M. Sports at 10 P.M.-special ten minute report. The p()pular quiz program, \Knowle-dge Bowl,\ returns to the air on Sundays from 7:30 to 8:00. Schedaled for later broadcasting is a special program on which Foreign students at Union will present songs from their home- lands. Time and date wil be announced in the near future. On Sundays between 6:00 and 7:30, Comments and pertinent opinions of the faculty will be aired. These special programs will be announced. de11t t•adio service. There is no less drival the major attraction solace, though, for the culture- of its prog1·amming. In a college community, there t> must be someone else who ap- preciates good music and enjoys listening to it. Must we inces- santly cater to mass _adolescent •\ diversions, and disregard the tru- ly valuable aspects of art? Barry N ewmau '67. Ers ~Ant Erskine ( Wednesd: , Ersk • ence at C of the C2 He i1 into the J which wa l4 noon, loc: his writi interview visit was '* Dephic S Prof. duced thE instruct 1 _.,his gener his use o: to read ( \(One ca 1 taste of 1 Whm there wa remain in! J said that many ye: was no sc well was -~ talent. writer. Cald1 good and I tors of t 1 -~ personal selves an ing, that Hurray! My belief in the value of stu- dent feoohaek led me to institute evaluation procedures some· nine years ago. So I ha.ppen to have data on the classes you single out. In la the overall 5-point rating was 3.6, with 20 of 21 members voting. In lla the aver- age was 3.6, 22 of 24; in 25, 3.5, with 20 of 21. This mises 'serious questions .ahout the J•eHability of your mea:sures and the adequacy of your sample in specific sec- tions. Inquii'Y in the two classes where I was able to check has shown that not over a third of the class members filled out your sheet. Unfortunate•ly for me the damage to my reputation cannot be rep·aired by this report. A letter to the editor doesn't erase the i-mpression created by an edi- torial p1·onouncement. The Committee on the Standing of Professors will soon study the records of those who are not doing well, and may inform certain. professors at the end of this semester that they may not return in Septem- ber. We hope that you will not become subject to such action; but you should realize now that, if you do no-t improve to the point where you meet the minimum index, you may be told that you cannot return next fall. starved. Our beloved WRUC has joined the anti-intelects, and is quiekly becoming their leader. If college students must listen to 1•o-ck n' roll, let them do it in a dark closet somewhere so no one will ever suspeet thei:r demadence·. Never should a college station sto<>Jl so uow as to make that art- \\ · Caldwell l1 a ing and !- Hurray for Dean Pollock! What clarity of thought, what depth of vision! Just 10 short months ago Union College's Publications Board abolished itself. It directed Dean Pollock to set up a vehicle for the selection ()f future editors and business managers, along the lines of certain suggestions which it outlined to him. And now, with selec- tion time just around the corner-next week to be exact, the new machinery has just been set up. It bears no re- semblance to the Publication Board's directives. Upon be- ing asked when the machinery would begin to operate, the Good Dean replied \I don't know. They haven't said a word to me.\ Ah, leadership ! And what was the master plan unfolded for selection procedures? A panel of 7 (odd number you know) three of whom are from the publication in question - editor, business manager and faculty adviser. What generous publication representation! After all, what do these three know about the publication anyway? It's far better to have the majority of the board (the remaining four), be people who are not on publications. They certainly know what the mechanics of putting out the publication are. They haven't been involved with the workings of the or- ganization day to day throughout the year and don't know the personnel involved, but that doesn't matter. Of course, the balance of power should lie in their hands. Besides it won't be the same four from year to year anyway. Their selection is up to the whim of the Student Council Presi- dent. What a remarkable way to protect freedom of the press! And it only took the good Dean 10 months to get all this set up. Amazing! Clarification We jumped the gun last w-eek and were in error in condemning campus reaction to the appointment of Dr. Martin. We were referrit1g to a relatively small portion of the students and faculty, and due to an error of omission we did not qualify our comments. Albert Nahmias, President of WRUC apologized to the Editor-in-Chief of this newspaper for implying that the paper was angry with Dr. Martin's appointment. Ap- parently he said this to slant the rest of his comments in order to arouse a reaction for his cause. This sort of thing shows a definite lack of res:ponsibility on his part and implies that he was more interested hi capturing· the pub- licity limelight than in rectifying an error. Desj}ite the fact that I had the misfo1tune to be a casualty of yoru· worthy aims I hope the pa- per will continue with this. There is more to be gained by thinking and communication on the cam- pus about academic matters than must be 1·isked as you learn the subtle ways orf attitude measure- ment. I hope the question of whether lecturing-teaching gets some airing. There at•e faculty members who v..-ill discuss ways of improving your approach, in- cluding myself, if you are in- terested. Clifford Pearce. EDITOR'S NOTE: A check of the signed ballots for Mr. Pearce's sections reveals a response of 61%. We are duty bound not to reveal the names but will be hap~ py to discuss the matter with Mr. Pearce. We have the feeling that stu- dents took lecturing ability to mean direction ()f claes discussion in sPminar-type sessions. · To the Editor of C\on(:ordienl'is: The diversity of comments, comments and not criticisms, that have grown out of the recent poH on professors has stirred some dust in a generally peace- ful community. To think that the dust will not settle befo1·e Sp1•ing comes is hard to believe, yet per- haps some partieles wi-ll settle on the sills. If profes·sors were to l'eceive repOl't cards, to whom would they be sent, the report cards that is~ If the n111merical grades of 5, 4, were equivalent to the grades of A, B, how many professors would be on the Dean'·s List? How many would be placed on Special Warn- ing? How many semesters vaca- tion should we give to those who fail to make it above their mini- mum two seme·sters in a ro-w~ Likewise, we would hope that they would u-se their -vacations to· study their nates well. \Of course, it is a proven fact that those who leave for more than one semes- ter increase theh· index by more than one whetle point upon Te- turning to school.\ Possibly the professors should sign up for student advi.sors, and You deserve <to know about this possibility so that you can do everything possible to avert such action. Hard wo1•k during the weeks ahead can bring you the satisfaction of a better record in June. If your student advisor, your students, Dr. Fried, or we can help you with any special problems you may be experiencing, we hope that you will seek such help imme- diately. It is your responsibil- ity. We all hope that you will achieve the level of ~cceptable tutorial performance. Sincerely Yours, Commi-ttee on the Standing of Faculty Laughan Mcl{ay To the Editor of Coucordiensis: Union College is purported to be in the center of the \great northeast.\ I have been search- ing endlessly over the past two yeat·s hoping all the while to dis- rover ·something to justify the term \great\ in that reso-unding appellation that DeWitt Clinton probably cooked up while run- ning for governor. Unfortunately, I have been al- most totally unsuccessful. One of the p1imary causes for this frustration is the absolute mini- mum of -good entertainment whkh courses the air waves of this fadr country. A college studen.t's best connection with the 'strange com- munity to whicll he has come to study is, after all, ·the television and, mom often, radio facilities offered. In Schenectady and sur- roundings I have yet to come across a single source af decent programming -on radio. The un- ceasing drone of tasteless popu- lar music which impinges on one's senses and one's sanity at all moments and from aU points Is enetugh to make a poor setul crave for transfer. It is obvious that an intellectual college community cannot expee.t comfm't from those • 1 great\ peo- ple who inhwbit this ••·great north- east.\ But certainly we ought to- provide ourselves with the joys of fine music throug-h our own stu- Regis 138 l<_t;~lau~ant Jay Street OPEN SUNDAYS 7 A. M. - 6 P. M. Special Prices For Union Students On ALL Meals • • - ;})inner - Roast Beef or Veal Cutlet with Choice of Vegetables • Salad and Coffee All For $.90 Wheat Cakes with butter and syrup _______ _ Coffee Whea.t Cakes wjth Bacon, Ham, or Sausage __ '· ~ Coffee Fr-ench Toast and Coffee --------------- With Bacon, Ham, or Sausage-------- .45 .60 Two Eggs (any style) Home fries, Toast, Coffee.45 Two Eggs (any style) Home fries, Ham, Bacor:~, or Sausage .65 U.nlonfs Eating )) Tat1 ~· rt' To i') fl ,, 6 s Tau BE gineering , itiate six dents in Chapter < In additi1 elevated · 11 Engineer. El The ne 0 itiated ir then attE honor in speaker i Charles tt Road, wl of the U pa1•tment The ne1 e S. Pal'l'y, Richard I ilton, '66 and Rich: 1 members · ~- basis of · . ler. All • / their ell , · \Eminent • g-iven to · the Class l ;~ Tau B . chapter a Mu chapl fessor W MeC'hanic: lla ment is J Adrr. 1) (Con been detc schola1·sh' w no later t CandidatE regard fo Ap Q This ye lllicati{)ns last year accepted It mission tl son obser either th< tion or school ra \ ,.#.~#####~#~~~#########~~~~~~#####~,,~,,~ ~although of apJ2liC

friday, February 19, f965 .,, $------------~---------------------------,--------------------~--------------------~---------------------------------------- the news follow- (Tues., e·st Erskine Caldwell Relates ., ~Anecdotes at Convocation Weekend. • • (Continued from Page 1) are adapted from other revisions. The trio is dh·ected by Erik Darling, who organized it in the fall of 1962, after gaining fame as a member of the Weavers-a group classed by Time Magazine as the greatest folk group of the century. Darling is weH known for his instrumental wiz- ardry on the banjo and guitar, as well as his authenticity and originality of style. Mindy Stuart is the female vocalist for the group. A new- comer to the folkmusic field, she joined the group after work in various nightclubs, lounges, back- rooms, and resorts in New York City aad New Jersey. Her clear sharp voice is an identifying fea- ture of the trio. ances. His folksinging career be- gan at the Golden Vanity in Bos- ton, and he has since appeared · Wilson In Recital in many Greenwich Village A . · \Houses\ including the Cock and pro~ram of music for .two ments,. but for other two key- Bull. H; set a record two-month ~ngans WI.ll be presented tomght board mstruments as well. run at Pipe Coffee House in m Memorial Chapel at 8;15. Pro- Third on the program will be Brooklyn. and ran another two f~s~or Hugh Allen ,Wilson of \Conce11ts No. 1 in G Major.\ months ~t the ·popular Gerde1s 'Cnl0n . College'.s 1 Music pepart- I This piece is a transcrLption by Folk City. He also ran before men,t am Mr. :0-lle~ R. Mllls, or- I Bach of a concerto attributed to 15 000 fans at Hootenanny '63 at g~mst and choir director at the I Vivaldi, but probably written by th~ F'orest Hills Music Festival Zloit 1 1 Luth~r 11 an Church of S~he- Prince Johann Ernst of Weimar. . , · nee a( Y, WI present the recital. Wilson and Mills have rearranged Tickets for hWmJer Weekend Wilson stated that \rarely is the piece so that one organ plays shou~gl beThurc ase bas sbt~ ad~ it possible to hear a program of the orchestra part and the other possr e. . ey may e. 0 ame ·I two large organs as will be pre- the solo part. for $2.75 e~ch from ext~er t~e The program will open with Another Soler work, \Concerto ~~assd co. uncJ1 r;presethtahves m I sented. This combination gives, No. 1 for Two Organs,\ will fol- . · e o:'llls, or. rom . e perso.ns the concert a unique aspect.\ low. m charge of tickets m each Fra-. Eug·ene Gig·out's \G d Ch . 0 . · ternitv or Richmond House. i n'. I , F rar: oe~u .rgan I.oaned to Umon · 1 . ta: ouge, a rench piece writ- C 1 {' . . 'l ten around the t . f tl \ one uc mg the progrru11 WI_ I be 1 .. • urn ° 1 e cen Henry Purcell's \Voluntary m C I turJ. Major.\ Wilson and Mills have Two Organs Featured again freely arranged this less , P. Antoniio Soler's \Concerto familiar voluntary for organ and Glee Club the . Bill Svanoe, the third link in Performs ; Six for Two Organs\ will he pre- trumpets by Purcell. . · 1 . sented next. According to Wilson, For the concert, WHson will be George •lJI music •lll P.M., 9 e air on which rhome- opinions will be e1 ,., there ap- enjoys inces- t\ the tru- au '67. ' Erskine Caldwell, left, with Prof. Carl Niemeyer at Phi Delta Theta Wednesday evening. By Matthew Katz Erskine Caldwell, the well-known author, spoke to a huge audi- rp ence at Convocation on Thursday morning. He called his talk \Out of the Caldwell Workshop.\ He is best kn()wn for his novel God's Little Acre, whicll delves into the problem of the poor white in the S'outh, and Tobacc() R()ad, which was made into a highly successful play. During the after- * noon, local television and newspaper media questioned Caldwell on his writing. Later, Caldwell talked with students and taped an interview concerning civil rights for WRUC. Erskine Caldwell's visit was sponsored hy the lecturer and Concerts Committee and the ,. Dephic Society. Prof. William M. Murphy of the English Department intro- duced the guest speaker. He noted that Caldwell was not there to instruct us on how to be successful Wl'iters, but to give us some of t his general observations on the American and world seenes. Noting his use of strong language in his books, Murphy stated that he used to read CaldweU's books secretly at Boy Scout camp. He punned, \(One can) taste the sweetness of forbidden fruit withcmt the bad taste of Candy.\ 1 No Secrets in Writing When Erskine Cadwell was finally introduced, he stated that there was no time left for his jokes. Nevertheless, he filled the remaining time with many personal anecdotes and much humor. He J said that \Everything written is not necessarily literary, and ;that many yearn for the \secret of writing.\ Caldwell said that there was no secret, merely a combination of compulsion and talent. Cald- well was sure he had the compulsion, but was still unsure about the ·IJ talent. He listed luck as another prerequisite for the successful writer. Caldwell noted .that there is. \No such thing as literature, just good and bad writing.\ He attacked book clubs and critics as dicta- tors of the reader's reading habits. He feels that reading was a ·~ pe1•sonal matter. He also noted that students could express them- selves and rebel if necessary in the censorship-free society of today. Caldwell ended with the hope that, with the return of \moral\ writ- ing, tl1at writers would concern themselves with \rousing storytell- B ing and happy readers.'' i\ Tau Beta Pi ~· nt ' To Initiate the Pacific Northwest this year than there has been in the past. The distribution of applicants by departments follows: Libera:! Arts ........................... _ .. 700 i'J fJ .• 6 Students Tau Beta Pi, the National En- gineering Honor .Society, will in- ' itiate six Union engineering stu- dents into the. Union College Chapter on Sunday, February 21. In addition, one member will be elevated to the rank of \Eminent 11 Engineer.\ Elston Will Speak The new members will be in- itiated in Old Chapel, and will 0 then attend a banquet in their honor in Hale House.. The guest speaker for the occasion will be Charles Elston of 1294 Lenox (! Road, who· is General Manager of the Large Steam Turbine De- partment of General Electric. The new members are: William e s. Pany, '65; J ohu R()well, '65; Richard Bobolin, '66; Clark Ham- 1 ilton, '66; R. Allen Miller, '66; ' unci Richard Pikul, '66. The new membet•s were selected on the ~ 1 basis of Scholarship and charac- ter. All are in the top fifth of / their classes. The award of · · \'Eminent Engineer\ is being ·' ' • given to Frederick Woodworth of .45 the Class of 1928. Founded in 1964 ; 0 Tau Beta ?i established its · chapter at Umon, the New York Mu chapter, in May, 1964. Pro- fessor Wal·ter E. Lowen of the Mechanical Engineering Depart- .60 t) ,a ment is faculty advisor. ee.45 .65 • Admissions • • • (Coutinud from Page 1) been determined. Notification of schola1·ship awards will be given w no later than the middle of April. Candidates are accepted without regard for financial need. Applications Increase u This yeal•'s total number of ap- plications is slightly higher than last year's, regarclles·s of fewer accepted candidates for early ad- It mission this year over last. Peal'- son observes. no major changes in either the geographical distribu- tion or the private-to-public school ratio over the past yeaT, ~ although there is a larger number of apJ2licants from Hawaii and Pre-Medical .......... -....... -............. 267 Civil Engineering .. .... ..... ......... 97 Electrical Engineering ............ 160 Mechanical Engineering _ ......... 112 Five-year Combined .. _ ............. 87 ' Industrial Administration ...... 39 Physics ..................................... -.. 91 Chemistry .................................. 96 Steinmetz ••. (Continued :from Pag·e 1) was graduated from M.I.T. in l 1920. Gerald Phillippe has been as- sociated with General Electric since he was graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Nebraska in 1933. He was made the company's board chairman iu 1963. College Students Faculty Members College Libraries SUBS(RIBE NOW AT HALF PRICE Printed In BOSTOH LOSANGRES LOHDOH CUp this advertisement end return It with your che~k or money order to: The Chliotlon Science Monitor One Norway St., Boston, Mo ... 02.115' 0 1 YEAR $12 0 6 mos. $6 0 COLLEGE STUDENT 0 FACULTY MEMBER this talented trio, has developed his own blues and gospel guitar technique to perfection. This along with the singing and rhy- thmical understanding adds to and supports the groups musical scope and helps to create the dex- terity and excitement of the Singers. The Concert also will feature Dick Glass, a rotund young man, who many consider one of the most exciting young entertainers in folk music today. \Round Rich- ard\ is one of those rare per- formers who lives up to his name, Every single muscle and fibre of his body comes into play to make .his audience laugh, sing, hum and cry along with him. An avowed commercial per- former Dick has lured Joan Baez and Bob Dylan to see him and laugh along during his perform- • j, ·was customary for the Spanish at the three-manual Cassavant The Glee Club of Umon Col- 1 Cathedrals in the eighteenth Organ of Memorial Chapel. Mills lege presented a ~oncert Sunday,, <'entury to have two organs. will play an Allen Electronic Or- ~ebruary 14 at Srmmons College ·1 Soler \~Tote a g;rea~ deal n<?t only gan .loaned' to the college by the m Boston. for tlus combmatJon of mstru- Allen Organ Company. In conjunction with the .Sim- mons Glee Club, they sung the challenging Bruclmer Mass num- ber 2 in E Minor. The Union Club then offered the \Motet Mater, Patris, et Filia.\ 1 The occasion marked father's weekend at Simmons, an all girls' sohool. Professor Hugh Allen Wilson, director of the club, term- ed the performance \highly sue-~ cessful.\ The club is now planning a solo , concert for an unspecified time , in the future. The last concert ' LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian - American Food 1125 BARRETTT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-97 44 of the year will be on Union's Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Parents' Weekend. It will fea-1 ture the Elmira Co!Iege Glee Club. ' Visit Our Cocktail Bar I didn't think Charlie was that kind of guy ... He's always been sort of a, well, you know what. Yes, I know. Wide ties, wide lapels and all. That car he's driving tonight. .. bucket seats, carpeting, console, vinyl trim, big VB. Frankly, I don't think he can afford it. Yes, who does he think he's going to impress? Hi, Charlie. It's Dodge Coronet. And frankly, Charlie can afford it. So can you. Coronet The hot new Dodge at a new lower price. Coronet 500 sports the following as standard equi~ment: all-vinyl interior, front bucket seats, full carpeting, padded dash, directional signals, backu~ lights. deluxe wheel covers. center console, 273 cubic inch VB. rSS Dodge Coronet DODGE DIVISION~~ CHRYSLER ~ MOTORS CORPORATION· See all the new Dodges on display at your nearby Dodge Dealer's. ------------WATCH \THE BOB HOPE SHOW,\ NBC-TV. CHECK YOUR LOCAL LISTING.------------·

MOVIE REVIEW Page2 Concordy Sports THEATRE REVIEW PAGE3 Mermen Bow As Shields Sets Record Cagers Losing To Battle Rochester; ·Grapplers Fall, 19-9; 1 Reaches Six Meet Clarkson Next · Streak By Eric Singer By Gary VanGraafeiland For Better Community Service WALKERS PHARMACY, INC. 509-511 STATE ST. Phone FR 4-7709 WALKERS PHARMACY NISKAYUNA BRANCH, INC. Balltown at Van Antwerp Phone FR 4-7730 DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate em Nott St. Open Daily 10 to 3 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. • 3 A.M. Washingtons 13irthda}' Salt; FRIDAY to MONDAY Ballance of Winter Stock: Suits (Reg. to 67.50) 26.22 Sportcoats (Reg. to 39.95} 15.22 Outerwear V2off All Men's L.S. Sportshirts 3.22 No Alterations • Charges - Or Layaways DAVE'S ~quir:e ~4op ~ 326 STATE STREET Ph. 377-3061 Tues. & Thurs. 'til 9 In a rnatch dominated by neither side, and hard fought all the way, the v.ar::;ity matmen succumbed to Hartwick College on Wednes- day. The final score 1·eud nineteen to n·ine, in favor of the visitors. C'nion's nine points came as the result of derision victories by senior Rick Engles, the tearn captain, and underclassmen Jan Wernet· and Jere Anderson. The dctories in individual contests further enhanced the fine records of the three etmquerer:::. Engles upp€d his record to 4- 2, while Anderson and Werner both remained undefeated thus far this year. Anderson has now won five while being tied once, and Werner has taken aU three matches he has been in. One-Five Record This season has been a disappointing one to t 1 •e matmen, who have managed to capture only one meet in six attempts, the lone victory eoming; o'Ver Hobart. The Dutchmen have ·~nen prey to Oneonta State, Williams, Rochester, R.P.I., and mo&. recently Hart- wick. The mai·n rea'son is the relative weakness of the team in the 123, 130, 1.57 pound, and Heavyweight classes. Coach Allison admitted that the remaining portion of the season looks ve1y difficult, with Colgate presenting an almost insurmount- able obstacle. Clarkson and Alfred represent formidable opponents, but should not prove as rough as Colgate. The team is al'so to com- pete in the ICAC Champion'ships to be held at Union on March 6. Optim.ism is in the air for next season, however, with a fine .. .. . group of freshmen coming up. The fre·shmen have ·lost only once .,. ::' · ., this yea1·, at the hands of R.P.I. With the return of much of this Bill Boehm (20), 6 , 5 , center, year's squ~d f.orming a ·soFd nuc:eus, next year Union could fie!~ a shoots lay-up as Greg Olson (l 2 ) st;ro_ng \'l estlmg squad, If everyone s.tays healthy and remams follows up. ehg1ble. starting five. The Ephmen used eleven men in the first half Tues- day night and, as a result, were still at full streng.th in the final minutes. Bill Boehm is certainly a welcome addition in the height department, but, still, his height doesn't compare with the Eph- men's 6'8\ Wally Wilson. The av- erage height of the Williams squad is 6'3\ while that of Union is an even 6 feet. By beating Union, Williams has boosted their record to 11-3 and remain undefeated on their home court. UNION WILLIAl\IS Giancola 9 Palmer 10 Brown 4 Blond 6 Kasper 8 Sheehan 14 Urbelis 10 Coolidge 14 Boehm 13 Kramer 4 Olson 11 McPherson 5 Ewing 1 Total 55 Nash 4 Wilson 2 Coach Allison has requested any upperclassman weighing 115 pounds and interested in wrestling to contact him. The team is in desperate need of ·such a person to represent Union in the upcoming ICAC Champio.nships. No previous wrestling experience is required, although it would be helpful. Anyone who is interested is urged to contact Coach Allison, for the mere presence of a Union representa- tive at the tournament is almost certain to guarantee Union of some points. Results of the Union-Hartwick wrestling match: 123 lb.~Bob Ricks (H) over Eric Levy (U); pin a:t 5:23 of second period. 130 lb.---'Bill Culli-gan (H) over Jerry DeMauro (U); decision, 11-0. 137 lb.-Jerry Anderson (U) over Doug Conorich (H); decision, 12-7. 147 lb.-Jan Werner (U) over Bud Thurber (H); decision, 8-5. 157 lb.-A.l Fenley (H) over Tony Fudge (U); decision, 8-4. 167 lb.-BTuce Webster (H) over Dale Schneider (U); decision, 2-o: 177 lb.-Rick Engles (U) over Will Hamilton (H); decision, 6-2. Hvywt.-Jim Matson (H) over John Werley (U); pin at 7:06 of third period. Score: Hartwick, 19- Union, 9. 'rhornhill 14 Total 74 Frosh Quintet Travels West Williams College entered the The frosh basketball team will game boasting a ballplayer, Dave travel to Rochester and Hobart Nash, who sunk 21'2 foul &hots with the varsity this weekend for in a row in practice for a school their first overnight trip of the record. Big Dave choked under season. Coach Schmidt's quintet game pressure and mis'sed one of enters the weekend with a 4-5 his three throws. Dave Coolidge, record. Last Tuesdoay night they who played for the Ephmen lost to Williams 92-74, after be- ~hile still recouperating from an ing down only two at the half, 1llness, sunk a 75' heave-ho- 39-37. High scorers in the Wil- throw to end the first half a split : Iiams garne for the Garnet frosh second after the buzzer sounded. were Fi tz Turne1' wi.th 17 Jim The \no basket\ call brought the Derrick, the 6'6\ center, with 15 crowd to its feet with a minute Jim Williams with 14, and Bili Tad Knight has had the sea- son's high game with a 21 point effort against Siena. Jim Derrick has hit doube figures in six of nine contests. Jim Williams is a pm,ticularly strong backcourtman, with not only great speed and agility, but also strong hands. He is banked by Fitz Turner Bob Seefried, and Dave Werk- hoven. Also on the squad are Dan Gestwick, Jack Weickel, of boos for the refs. N eidel with 10. ------~~~==========~=============D=i=ck=·=I=s=b=e=ll=·=a=n=d==T=o=n=y==F=o=le=Y=·==~ I ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES for Seniors and Graduates in MECHANICAL; AERONAUTICAL, CHEMICAL, ELECTRICAL, and METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING ENGINEERING MECHANICS APPLIED MATHEMATICS PHYSICS and ENGINEERING PHYSICS CAMPUS INTERVIEWS Pratt& Whitney ~ire raft WEDNESDAY, MAR. 3 u DIVISION OF UNIT.(::lACRAFT CORP, Appointments should be made in advance through your College Placement Office I An Equal Opportunity Employer SPECIALISTS IN~· •• POWER ' FOR PROPULSION--POWER FOR AUXILIARY SYSTEMS. CURRENT UTILIZATIONS INCLUDE AIRCRAFT, MISSILES, SPACE VEHICLES, MARiNE AND INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS. -------------- .



. . . • : ' --· - · ____ __ __ .. __ .., ___ · - · ~ -- ~ -- - See this bomb. It is a communist bomb. It is black. With it the communists threaten world peace. Ban the bomb! ~t · . 'f :.# .: '/1> ;.- .. · · . ~ r ' [ ~:.~ ' _ . , . i . . ~ , . I I See this bomb. It is an American bomb. It is white. With it we protect our freedom. • I} • • • • • • • • • • • • • . : : . • I' l 1 t j , I t . / . .;,\. ~ t l ~· J Hurrah for the bomb! ------·1-

• • •) . , • • • • • • ' • • • • i • I • . : : . • ,(· t . j • \: • • ~ ~ • \ . • • UNION COLLEGE Editor: UERNARD TOSCA Associate Edi to1·: EDDIE BIRTHPANG Editorial Assistant: Sent as a stimulating discharge to any receptive party, Supposium is pub- lished rarely. Supposium is a suppository for the exchange of fertile ideas, but the opinions expressed therein are those of the institutionalized and not of the institution. A II the contrilmtors are connected with Union College in some strange way. 2 9 28 WINTER • 1965 RIN vAN vVINKLE oF THE TwENTIETH CENTuRy Wf are especially indebted to Dr. Cm·tn Dmn \ dson for this biogra- phy . PoRTRAIT oF AN ALUMNus: the Marquis du Sade Union's greatest ad110cale of clean li11ing and high thinking has graciously permitted us this inten1iew. THF. THAETETUS in Urdu. translated by Sven Peterson MARTHA WASHINGTON Professor Peterson has long maintained that this most important Blahtonic work loses something in the original Welsh , and has fin- ally done something about it . Editorial Bored: HENRY SWINGER BERNIE THE RED Editorial Ad·oisors: JOE FINK HARRY LARRY WALTER LOAN CARL KNEE 47 MoRE oN VIRGINIA's HERITAGE, by Roland Ciaranello Professor Oldenbrook having come of age, the campus ban on thi-s unexpurgated edition has been lifted. LXIX WHAT THE BooKSTORE REALLY SELLS by Hilda Blackguard Hill Ever since Congress Street closed up . , people have been wondering where to go for a \you know what.\ Miss Hill, who has been \you know whaling\ students for years now, explains how it's done by the real pros. Concordy Winter Weekend Issue Published Fridays during the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y . Na- tional Advertising Representative: Nn.tlonal Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave., N. Y. C. Editorial Office. Old Gym. Union College. Publication Office. Sche- nectady Printing Company, 602 Broadway. Entered In the Sche- nectady Post Office as Second Class l\lall l\Iatter. Subscription 15c a copy: $& a year delivered anywhere in the United States.

4 The recent rebellion against the so-called \publish or perish\ policy · in force in many Amer- ican universities seems, in this corner, to be leading to a highly dangerous state of affairs. The possibility that stl:ldent evaluation may supplant quantity of published material as the · determining criterion for the granting of tenure and advancement of facvlty salaries is fraught with peril. Never a very stable group, the members of the academic guild may well resort to desperate meas- ures in their efforts to improve thier image and boost their Nielsons. Abetted by the sophisticated techniques of modern public relations, faculty attempts to curry favor with their students are likely to lead to such expedients as the placing of advertisements i n college catalogues. It takes little imagination to envision the results: ... are you embarrassed at intellectual cocktail parties because the only thing you can drop is your hors d'oeuvre? Have friends ridiculed you for your thinking the Alexandria Quartet is Nas- sar's answer to the Rolling Stones? Are you ashamed to admit that Jasper Johns means noth- ing more than a lavatory construction firm to you? If so, before taking that drastic final step, consider the benefits of a semester of the answer to a Philistine's prayer: Humanities 102 no previous culture required ... designed to raise your med or law board score by at least ten percent . .. engineers, see us about our speciol cra$h course We guarantee you'll be a bona fide dilettante in six months, as knowledgable as anybody who walks in to the Huntington Hartford Gallery, or twice your tuition back! What Sort Of Man Takes Public Speaking? A young man who enjoys the finer things of collegiate living. He kncw 5 the value of avoiding unpleasant pressure, unnecessary grade - g r ubb i ng. Frequently a sportsman , he realizes the importance of \guts\ for the successful pursuit cf athletic excellence. Fact: Public Speaking is first among ell courses favored by three-sport jocks, second nationally among all courses taken by red-shirted athletes, end two hundred and twelfth among all courses taken by students on the Dean's Team . The only prerequisite is the ability to speak two consecutive simple sentences in English (or a reasonable facsimile thereof). (Source: Teaching Trendex, March, 1964.1 t . f) • • . , . • • • • • • • fl • . .. f) • ' . \ .

t • ·' • • • • • • • • • . (' f) • ' . ~ I~ t I . { \ i• t ~ ~· I· . ~ \. r. t 'll· Be the . first m your dormitory to know the plot of The Greatest Ever Told 0 Story before its released! Find out the shocking truth about C. B. deMille's success (no royalties to his plotwriters)! Astound your friends with your interpretation of the theo- logical significance of the KAMA SUTRA! Take Comparative Religion 21 !Saturday classes can(e!lecl twenty percent of the time) From the Studios of Walt Disney comes a new concept in academic scheduling: MICKEY MOUSE MATH Why struggle with differential equations to which you're basically indifferent, why awake at eight to fall asleep again to the incantation of magical sounds like Fesapo and Derapti in Logic Class? Millions of others have found the easy, miracle mild way to salvation .•• HYmc:m Biology and Mickey Mouse Math. Excellent preparation for those of you who hope to major in Psychology to avoid taking the comprehensives. Many have been known to take it two or even three times. Hurry before curriculum revision abolishes it forever! The Dean in coHabor:ation wi:th tile Depart- ment of History presents .Direct from a rousing ten week stint in summer school, HANSEN and GRETEL in European History Follies 1965 Who I the Critics say: \A great theater experience .. absolutely enchanting •.. nothing like it since the close of burlesque.\ \Walter Kerr \A fun show ... a bit prurient in parts, but offensive only to the unprepared . . . the Candy oi the classroom.\ \Egregiously biased unfair . . . \ Dwight 'MacDonald blatantly prejudiced ..• grossly Otto von Stu I hberg ( Bundes Republik Deutschlonds) with len new hits including \The Be tnat Wnat It May cho, cha\ and \It's Banal to be Anal\ Gretel winding up his famous Industrial Revolution lecture with great thrust • Warning: no one will be seated after the curte>ln rises land before that, it's Alphabetical Order or else! I 5 ·t : ~~-------------------- ............................................ ...

portrait of an alumnus: ROSCOE C. SMELDON '21 Of the many Union graduates whose names will stand out in the pages of history as \greats\ in all fields of human endeavor, one of the most colorful is the world- famous author, lecturer, explorer, and world-traveler, a man who needs no introduction, whose name is as com- mon a household word as \toilet the world-renowned Roscoe C. Smeldon, class of '21 (graduated in '25). Born in the small community of North Gooseberry Falls, Alabama, on March 3, I 899, Roscoe Collins Smel- don was the youngest in a family of thirteen children, a small, fat, pimple-faced, dirty little boy who showed even then a glimpse of the internationally respected, intelligent, big, fat, pimple-faced, dirty old man he was to become. Roscoe had always had a fever for knowl- edge and was determined to get a college education, no matter what the cost, especially since World War I was raging when he graduated from high school and he was afraid of the draft. After being rejected by Harvard, Princeton, Dartmouth, and North Gooseberry Falls Com- munity College, Roscoe had almost given up hope when 6 4J«.~.rrriltw:UittnrJilll# · . · . ' ' . Jonathan Peerless II, a former Union football coach who had been promoted to the Admissions Department, viisited hiis high school, looked at his athletic record, and recruiited him. Young Roscoe Smeldon's college career distinguished him immediately as an unusual young man. Affection- ately nick-named \Smelly\ by his classmates, Smeldon showed a dedication to Union's principle of a \well- balanced\ education, by staying at the school four extra years to satisfy his physical education requirements and pass History I Ob. The highlight of \Smelly's\ football career was in the Union-Williams game his senior year, when he brought down the ball-carrier on a Williams pass play with fourteen seconds left in the game. Un- fortunately, the ball-carrier was Union end Clark Jack- son ('22), who had intercepted the pass and was going all the way. Union lost 17-14. \1 remember the day well,\ reminisces Prof. Wilford Katz. 'I't was in November, 1921, my eighth year as athletic director.\ t) I • ~ . \ : I • · • t · • • I} • • !) • . ' . . , I • I ~ . •

~ .. :h 1t, d, ed Ill· Dll ! ll- tra nd ar, JllS Jn- tck- ing ord as • • • · • I) · • • , l • I • ll • • t : • aJ ... • ; I • I \). • f J f,) OJ I c I I -~ - ·- · ·· ·~ ~- ~ : ~~ ~~ ~- ~~~~: . ~ ~ ~ -~.~--~-- ~ . ~~·~~~~~ ~·~ ~~ ~~ ~~.~~~~~= :=-~ · . · ~;~~~~j:t~~r~~~ : / / · . ·x~ ~~~,>~~ -i~ ~t ; ~~ \~ : ·:, : · · . . :~5iJ~~~~~~ :~· .. · · :.l . i . ·• ~. I ... r . ~ . :. · ~.~ ... ; ~.· ;.: . ·f: .- . . 1,•·~. ~ . : . .. -: · ;;~·· . : ,:._ · .. · ... · · •' ~·: -r··~,ifi~ • . li,.;i\1, ··· .. , .:. . ,, . ~ - ·, 't<.'> ,-.•·-: !'. ~~ · )1;· ~ ;( · ~ .· : •. . . : . . ... :., · . · ... ·.-·,i. \How Dry I Am \ Upon his graduation from Union, Smeldon took a position witih a New York Cit)' trade newspaper, The Illustrated Lap - Strap Wrappers' Daily, while working on his first novel in his spare time. In June, 1928, the novel, entitled Lord .Tim, was published to rave reviews. In July, 1928 the book was taken off the stands and Smeldon was prosecuted for plagiarism. Undaunted by temporary reversals, he pushed on in his quest for artistic expression, and in I 931 published his second novel, Lust Queen, which shot to the top of the best- selling lists in two weeks. His literary reputation firmly established, \Smelly\ fled the country under the outraged onslaughts of the Legion of Decency and traveled to Brazil, where he began research for his first non-fiction work, a definite study of the reproductive capabilities of Latin-American eels. Since then, Smeldon's career has carried him to unpre- cedented heights of international fame, and Union was recently honored to have him return to our campus as a speaker at a ccnvocation. Unfortunately, it was the final convocation of the semester, and onl)' seventeen people attended, including a pair of winos who had wandered in from Union Street to get out of the cold. Strangely enough, 237 tickets were turned in for this convocation. Delphic Society members were at a los's to explain. Roscoe Smeldon is also one of the most active of Union alumni, contributing enormous sums of money each year. B)' next year, enough will have been contributed to install the Roscoe Collins Smeldon Memorial Drink- ing Fountain on the second floor of Bailey HalL A review of Roscoe Smeldon's career is a truly inspir- ational experience for every aspiring Union undergradu- ate. It is an excellent portrait of a self-made man, who started -with nothing, but through dishonesty, greed, selfishness, and complete lack of a moral sense made himself an honored and respected figure on the inter- national scene. But no matter what he is to others, his friends at Union, he will always be just plain \Smell y .\ 7

8 Public Opinion Sampling The Following Questionnaire is a follow up to the highly successful Course Evaluation Poll. Please circle your choice, clip out the Questions and mail to Dr. Clifford Purse. QUESTION 1 Who will the next member of the Admission Committee be? a · ) Wayne Nowack b) Coach Beaudry c) Morris Katz d) The Squirrel QUESTION 2 Who is WRUC's squirrel? a) Eugene Wine b) Dean Pollock c) Mama Bianchi d) Hilda Hill QUESTION 3 Which of the Following will happen First? a) Union College fraternities will dissolve voluntarily b) Hale House will have enough main courses for everyone c) Union's football team will be undefeated d) the sky will fall QUESTION 4 Who will be the next editor of the Concordiensis? a) Rodham Tulloss b) Jonathan Pearson Ill c) Bob Galvin d) AI Nahmias QUESTION 5 This spring WRUC will a} go classical b) go beat c) go nationol d) go away. QUESTION 6 Where will Charlie P broadcast from next? a) on top of Nott Memorial b) on top of Memorial Chapel c) on top of : Beta d) on top of Old Smokey. QUESTION 7 Union's new dorm will be called a) South by Southwest college b) Capitola Hall c) Ketz Hall d) Phi Kama Sutra QUESTION 8 The football team had g losing season because a) they were too sincere. b) Susquehanna was dropped from the schedule c) Alexander Field is too small d) they lost more games than they won. . , • • li • · <I f ' ' . . • • l j • i \ . i . . i • ' ! . , ' ..

. , ~ . . li • · •I f • • • ~ : . I! t \ . i . . i • , i . • • fol Though new dormitories are a nice addition to any campus, we feel that the new design for better living should include more of the type of apparatus shown above. Design For Better

' I . ' . I I The Best of J. C. Clemens J. C. Clemens, Class of 1963, will long be remembered for his literary contribution to the Union College Cam- pus. For those who were not fortunate enough to read \Romance Rococo\ when it was first published in the Winter, 1963 issue of the Idol, the Supposium is proud to reprint this excerpt from his larger manuscript. This chapter is inclusive unto itself and no previous back· ground is necessary to enjoy this work as a short story. On Saturday, I found myself in the entrance hallway of Cynthia's brownstone, peering at my reflection in the glare of the brass mailboxes. I located the Nolan door· bell and pressed it. A buzzer replied to mine, indicating that the electric lock had chosen to admit me. After walking up three flights of stairs, I saw a woman, whom I assumed to be Mrs. Nolan, standing in the doorway of the correctly-numbered apartment. She was smiling vacantly, her hands clasped in front of her, partially covering a faded floral apron. \Hello there. You're Herbie?\ \Yes ma'am.\ \Well please come m and sit down.\ Mrs. Nolan led me through the apartment doorway into the living room, a large room painted the color of old putty. At the far end was a large mahogany fireplace, crawling with carved gargoyles in various moods. Beside the fireplace on either portion of the wall, full-length mirrors, also bordered in the same kind of shiny mahcg- any, projected the second-hand images of a rather bovine woman with a floral _apron on and a mere stripling standing beside her, shifting his balance from one foot to the other. The woman turned to face the boy . \Cynthia's not ready yet, as usual. I've told her a hundred times that if she keeps the boys waiting, ~hey'll stop coming, but she insists on primping right up until the last minute. I really wonder about that girl. Tell me, what do your parents think of you having dates at this age? I really worry about Cynthia. It seems like she's wasting her life by dating so soon. There'll be just no excitement left when she decides to get married, flut- tering around at this age like she does. But you just can't tell that girl anything ... as you probably know already.\ 12 Mrs. Nolan flashed a confidential smile which I re- sponded to by smiling back knowingly. I felt rather foolish as I really hadn't heard a word the woman said. She spoke in a falsetto monotone, and used phrases which were so outworn that they meant nothing. I assumed that this was her intention and settled myself in one of the three maroon chairs, being careful not to displace any of the embroidered antimacassers which festooned it. Mrs. Nolan sat in the sofa, a similar ma- roon monstrosity. I tried not to return the stare which she fixed on me, by observing the room. The rugs, the drapes, and the slipcovers all united thematically to give the room the spirit of a greenhouse full of flowers which had been pressed for thirty years in a gigantic cookbook. Faded flowers bloomed in a gray monochrome all over the room. Some were printed on :\Irs. Nolan's apron while others struggled to escape from the embossed nappy weave of a slipcover or drape. Nowhere in the room could the eye come to peaceful repose except upon the placid features of Cynthia's mother. Cynthia's appear- ance came as a relief. She swirled into the room from behind a drape. \Hi Herbie. Sorry I'm late. Ready to go?\ \Where are you planning to go, Cynthia?\ \I told you we were going to the movies, Mom.\ \When will you be back?\ \Mom we went through all that last night. Please stop asking those silly questions in front of Herbie.\ Cynthia pecked her mother on the cheek and led me out of the apartment. After leaving Cynthia's apartment, we began the six block walk to the movie theatre. At one traffic light, Cynthia offered her hand and I took it as noncommit- tally as possible. As we walked along, Cynthia would secretly squeeze my hand, at first when she saw wmething which excited her, and later for no apparent reason. I could discover no order or formula to Cynthia'.s hand squeezing, so 1 soon £ergot it. Occasionally, out of a feeling of chivalric duty~ I would return her squeeze, but this didn't seem to settle the duel. Finally, we reached the theatre. Cynthia waited in the lobby while I negotiated at the box office. Then we plunged into the bristling darkness of Loew's Shore Road. • <)) • ! I. 1. .. : . ill t tl) ' Q 0 e 0' tl

1 y 1 0 ... . 1 se \ 1e IX 1t, it- ld ng I nd a ze, we ile lto 4) • <)) • 1) • ~ • ! 1: I ·• :. ' 1 Jl I • I ill t Q 0 • () On a Saturday afternoon, t.he Shore Road gave the impression of seething darkness. On entering the thea- tre, we passed down the center aisle, walking slowly so that our eyes would get accustomed to the darkness. On either side, nothing could be seen. Only the restless sound of adolescents at · loose ends gave the impression that a great Roman mob huddled out of sight, ready to yell \SURPRISE\ when the appropriate moment came. Then, slowly, heads and piled up coats floated out of the miasma, glowing in the bluish chiaroscuro of the screen. Rows of seats were visible, and turned heads munching candy, and dungareed snipers drawing beads with their water pistols on the unknowing. At one side, near the middle of the theatre, I noticed three or four empty seats, and then guided Cynthia toward them. We sat down. On the screen, muffled and sweatered people swooped out of blazing white wakes of snow as the newsreel nar- rator told about skiing in the French Alps. The flashes of whiteness illuminated the uptilted faces of the audi- ence and even the walls of the theatre could be seen as c~early as daylight. The ceiling of the theatre was par- tially composed of a great hemispheric dome. Along each side wall, plaster balconies protruded halfway be- tween the floor and the ceiling with an occasional gallery of false box seats illuminated indirectly by colored bulbs. Along the rim of this false gallery, an occasional statue peered out into the void of the theatre like a lonely sentry, oblivious to the activities below where a veritable war was breaking out. One contingent of boys in the left side of the orchestra were pelting those in the center with wrappers and refuse. A firecracker went off, silence reigned momentarily, and then the restless buzz began again. Cynthia held herself aloof from the conflict ten rows in front of us, contenting herself with an occasional cryptic hand-squeeze. The newsreel finally came to an end and the feature began. The restlessness continued despite the beginning of the movie because the begin- nings of most science fiction movies are devoted to the very boring scientific justification of the fiction which follows. White-coated laboratory technicians blabbered meaninglessly while the occupants of Loew's Shore Road slowly settled down. Cynthia's periodic spastic clutches became more insistent. Each time my eyes would sneak away from the screen to observe her, I would be greeted by the same curl-framed, mechanically-smiling face. I dutifully smiled and squeezed. The scientific explanations droned on. The audience began to get restless again because nothing but quite ordinary human beings had populated the screen. Wise- cracks began to be heard, popcorn cups resumed their regularly scheduled flights. Others of mo-re inventive nature dispelled their boredom by melting into adoles- cent clinches. The couple sitting in front of us were pioneers in our section of the theatre, but others fol- lowed. Cynthia's squeezing became frantic as the per- verse little rmyeur scrutinized the happenings in frcnt of her. While the plot of the movie was definitely be- ginning to regain momentum, I nevertheless decided that some sort of advance must be made on Cynthia if her pride and my own were to be saved when su!:>jected to the Monday morning bull sessions at St. Stephen's. On a more purely physiological basis, I felt the future of Cynthia's muscular coordination was in my hands, liter- ally and figuratively. A condition analagous to lockjaw was beginning to affect her left hand. I moved in for the kill. But I wasn't sure. Much of my early progress was severely hindered by a basic fact of theatre design. To a short eighth-grade boy, the back of a thea • tre seat is unbelievably high. With utter lack of coordination, I swung my wobbling arm around Cynthia's seat wiith the plan of slowly letting it fall to Cynthia's shoulders if I discovered that she would not resist such intimate , contact. But I didn't want to encircle her shoulders immediately. I had to be gentle. The result was that for the first fifteen or twenty minutes of \War of the Worlds,\ I hung almost suspended by my right arm from the back of Cynthia's seat like a Rhesus monkey swinging casu aU y from a mango branch. At the final limit of muscular endurance, the deltoid muscle of my shoulder locked up in a excruciating cramp, causing my right arm to thunder down onto Cynthia like a runaway log. Oh, my God, I've done it now! I could envision the fragments of my reputation at St. Stephen's blowing away like so much chaff in that horri- ble split second as my hand fell out of control onto Cynthia's · shoulder blades. But then the impossible occurred. She lurched for- ward with the blow, recovered from the shock, and before I could cauterize the wounds with hurried apologies, I saw Cynthia's white arms flash out of the void. I slammed my eyes shut in fear but awakened to find that I was encircled around the neck by a sighing girl named Cyn- thia, enveloped in the scent of shampoo and the strange softness of an unusually hot cheek. My eyes opened and in the strain to focus on Cynthia's face, I noticed the eerie washboard corrugations of pursed lips AND I AWAKENED! With the speed that only a harried mind can muster, the facts fell into place! The squeezing that had worn my hands raw, the smiles, and even fragmen- tary remembrances of our \first date\ as we walked to the park, all came crashing down to fall in a horribly logical pattern. The pattern was completed as I felt my lips almost instinctively draw together and then the dry touch seeking to be wet but never daring, holding, waiting, pressing, pulsating. \OH ... HERBIE!\ \tntntn?\ \C'mcn ... open your mouth.\ My mcuth opened, more out of shock than out of obedience, but before I could recover, more and more new sensations assaulted me in the darkness. They began with the almost-perverse feeling of breathing warm breath which isn't your own, second-hand breath but nice after a second or so, perhaps just a shade warmer or cooler than your own, but nice. And then from the deepest recesses of Cynthia's soul, a warm tongue ... or 13

was it a serpent? ... uncoiled against mine, sinuously pressing and seeking its reluctant mate. I followed suit in a split second, I got the idea, with only a split second separating innocence and utter oral depravity. We con- tinued in a timeless void while people were ionized by monsters only fifty feet away. From time to time, even Cynthia's lungs would fail and she would stop to gasp. \Oooh ... you're good!\ She said this with the cool impartiality of a sportscaster, but I didn't see it that way at the time. I just looked at her face incomprehendingly as if it were the outside limits of my sight, the very end of anything I could know. Even in my acute state of shock, Cynthia's enthusiasm penetrated my shielded, catechised soul and I drew her down to begin again, not knowing why, but just doing it blindly, happy that my inexperience had not been noticed. I would make up for lost time! I would learn! I would learn! Only a split second separated us, a wonderful, easily-concealed split-second. I would concentrate on following Cynthia Nolan by a mere split-second. Cynthia's face again closed out the world and we plunged into the mindless warmth for a second try. The warm timeliness continued while the \War of the · worlds\ was waged. Suddenly, it seemed like a gigantic searchlight was turned on us. Startled, we both disentangled ourselves and were greeted by a pim- ply-faced usher with a flashlight fully two feet long. \Relaxin' there, huh? .Jeet., this is a respectable thea- tre. Now, c'mon, watch the movie.\ I felt relieved when the usher took his light from my embarrassed fare and began to move further down the aisle. It seems that he and another usher were proceeding up and down the aisles, breaking up couples who refused to watch the second feature. But all of a sudden, Cynthia, jumped out of her seat. \Why don't you mind your own business.\ The usher wheeled in his tracks and we again were blanketed by the flashlight beam. \C'mon Cynthia ... don't bother \Don't bcther, my . foot! Nobody ever told me any- thing like that in this theatre before. What is this, something new?\ \Look kid, the manager doesn't want any more foolin' around in here any mor~. Now, that's that. Don't give me a fight, huh?\ \C'mon Herbie, let's get outta here. This is a terrible moYie, anyway.\ \Sorry kid, but that's the rules.\ Cynthia started shuffling to the aisle nearest her. I followed, a split second behind, excusing myself pro- fusely as I bumped knees with everyone in the row. Cynthia marched out of the theatre, her head jutting proudly in the air. I followed, pretending not to know her too well. When we reached the brightness of the street, Cynthia turned back to me and offered her hand. Capturing it, she strained ttp and pecked me on the side o'f the face. \You're really sweet. I'm sorry I made a scene.\ \That's all right, Cyn, he was pretty snotty about it anyway. There's only one thing that I wondered about \ \What's that, Herbie?\ \Well that b-usiness about nobody ever telling you to stop before . . . Did you mean that ... well, did you mean that you do that ... what we were doing, that is .. all the time?\ \You didn't think the movie was that good, did you?\ \Well I really don't know, Cynthia.\ \I thought the movie was awful . . . what I saw of it, anyway. Didn't you have a 1ot more fun with me?\ \Well yeah, of course ... It was great, Cynthia, don't get me wrong but I was just wondering if you do that .. sort of thing very often.\ \Oh you mean make out in movies?'' \Well yeah.\ \Only when I'm out with someone I really like very much .. . like you.\ Her eyelasves were batting about .450. I blushed. \Then you don't just do it with everybody?\ \\Nell ... no, not really . .. You know, I don't think you should worry about it, Herbie.\ \Okay I was just wondering.\ Boy, was I! 'With Cynthia's pulsating hand in mine, we walked back to her home. As we approached the brownstone, I began to wonder about what my obliga- ticns would be for the rest of the day. It was only four in the afternoon. I didn't quite know for certain if our date was officially over . I lurked a split second behind Cynthia waiting for a clue. \You know, Herbie, I had a good time today ... de- spite that stupid usher. Tha . nks a lot, you're real sweet.\ \Ve walked up Cynth.ia·s steps and entered the vesti· bule. The door closed behind us. Then Cynthia . .. • • \ I ! I • f. (I • IS I · I I · . r i r. . ' \ i l . j I · . i .; r ! . • I . l i ' I ( · · • ' I I I I · ~ I ' I ~ ( !· til l .U I I I I , ) ~ ! l ( .. I I. r ~

y lt lk Je, : he 5a- ,ur >Ur nd de- et.\ esti- thia • l • I f • ! fi , • \ t i I I • $ ) . I ; l . - ~ wheeled around and damped her arms around my neck again. \We have to kiss goodbye here. 1\fy mom's home.\ After a short repetition of our theatre activities, Cyn- thia released me and smiled. \You gonna do anything tonight, Herbie?\ \You mean ... after dinner?\ \You know ... about eight or so.\ \I guess I'll watch TV tonight Saturday night is the best TV night.\ \I usually do the same thing. Isn't that funny?\ \\Veil you can't beat Saturday night for TV, Cyn.\ \Do you think you'd like to come over here and watch it with me? It'd probably be a lot more fun.\ \I don't think so, Cyn. I don't know if Mom and Dad would go for it.\ Cynthia smiled and kissed me again in her enchanting, wet way. She looked up. ' ' \Ve cmllcl ... we could make 01/l.\ \Yeah right, Cynthia. Do you think I'd feel very com- fortable making ottt with you with your mother standing arouml?\ \She won't be here, silly. Do you think I'd ask you over to make out with my mother here? God, she's be furious. No, don't worry about lVfom. My parents are both going to a party tonight. We don't have to worry about them.\ \Do you think they'd mind?\ \Boy you are dumb! I'm not going to tell them!\ Seeing that I was hesitating, Cynthia felt that more of her convincing brand of persuasion was necessary. The arms circled around my shoulders this time as she kissed me, a new variation was added to Cynthia's repertoire. Her fingers lightly massaged the hackles of my neck, tripping along in rhythm with her swirling tongue. Fool that I was, I succumbed. The date was set for eight o'clock. 15 ' . . - · .. . -·· · · · . .. .... . . - ,::· --·· ·-··· ~ · · = -.-· = · ·· = ··· =. ··· = - -- ..... - - = -- -- ·· ;,;;;. ·· · -... ·· ..... . .... . . ............... .. . . . . . - - · .. .. . - -- - - ··- - · .. ... ... ...... .. .. . --lliliiiiiiiliiiiliiliilillillillililliliiiiiliiiii

· I ;i :i portra : it of an alumnus: CARTER D. DOVIDSON - PUSHED OUT OF lHE CLASS OF 1965 Dr. Carter D. Davidson is Union College's newest and most extinguished alumnus. A bit slow in academic matters he labored here for 19 years. He was finally pushed out by the kind hearted trustees in February of I 965. Being such a ha nl man to replace it took the Trustees two weeks to 1nake the announcement of a ~uccessor. Dovidsoa r<>se to natioaal prestige when he was made the principal character of the best selling Philip Roth novel, \Good bye Calendar.\ Encouraged by his percen- tage of the take from the novel's profits, he wrote a book of his own entitled \How to Strengthea a College Math Departmea t.\ Having grc<tt pride and faith in Union, he sent his son to Amherst College. Dr. Dovidso11's removal creates a unique situation on the college campus. For the first time in 19 years, a class that was sung in will not be sung out. Realizing that this 111ight have traumatic effects on a good number of the students Dovidson has recorded \Ode to Old Union\ an : d \Let the Grecian Dream While Sitting in the Stream,\ 011 Concordia label. On the flip side of this album will l>e Miss ·Lilian Applegarth answering the phone and a recording of Bill Ketz's rake as it slowly moves along the ground in his garden. For the first 100 purchasers the Union College Bookstore will throw m a reconli ng of a special reading of the works of Emily Dickenson by Little Dean Polecat. Dr. Dovi<lson also starred in two movies f'ilmed right here en the campus. They were entitled \From Here To Oblivion\ and \Dr. D. Goes to Washington.\ Davidson has left behind him a living legacy-Dt. Har- old Woe of' the Physics Dept., Dr. Bobo Weemier of the English Dept. and Ju1HJling George Weed of the Chem- istry Dept. Unfortunately these people have been stripped of their forlllcr positions as \privileged pro- fessors,\ and Samson A.. 0. P. Uldmon of the Dept. of 16 Mr. Dovidson, ever searching for new and educational adventures. English has been appointed to take their place. Pro- fessor U ldmon is the creator of the famous cigarette jingle \Its who you know that counts.\ At last report Davidson and his wife Capitated were comfortably settled in Washington. We are told that the President of the United States has asked him to head a national committee on the importance of a Compre- hensive Education curriculum in small Liberal Arts Colleges in the East. Davidson calied on his old usurper Dean Lockhead to serve on the coriilUittee with him. We would like all of you to remember Dr. Davidson as an example of the kind of person Union College is proud to turn out. Remember what he always said \You're next Polecat.\ t) • tl f) t) j \' \ ; ' 1 i' ; • ... 41 ' 61

mal Pro- ·ette were that head 1pre- Arts 1rper m. . dson ge is : tid e • • t J i f) l i ' · 1 . , II tl ~ l : f ) 'II tl 6) t tl I · I l · - l e I I I I ' 1 I ! { . I : I r 1 ,f I , \ : ~ • • I • • 1 · f J 1 i i • I I j l } I r1 ' .) j ~ \ { * I I I ~ ' j · The American College Professor: A Study in Psychological Aberration by ANTHONY C. SEED, prof. Emeritus of Senility Some of the pestifiore obstrepori of the faculty, who have recently been promoted to take charge of the Union College Admissions Department. Rare, indeed , are fields as fruitful in the hunt for new specimens of mental illness. as American College faculties . This is, however, not to say that all professors are crazy . On the contrary the mentally healthy occupy positions on mcst faculties of not less than fifteen per cent. The remaining eighty - five per cent (who are really sick) we can classify into several categories (and the number is growing every week). First and most prominent on campus is the pestifiore obstreprous or \dirty old man.\ This pestifiore or as he is called for short, slob. seeks self-gratification through lilth. Generally unable to achieve more in a sexual sense than depraved speech, he seeks to impart his de- bauched values to his students and is frustrated in dis- covering that they already have it. He poses a very real threat to marriage as an existing form of Capital punish- ment. The compliment of this disease is pestifiore gravis. This form is commonly called the \dirty young man.\ Collectively these two specimens usually encom- pass the entire faculty except for librarians. One might also exclude from this group those who have given up girls for snail s (however this last type is not easily detec- table since it has been known to masquerade as a well- groomed arn1pit). In addition to these more obvious academic catas- trophes there are many standard case histories in frus- n·ation. Most prominent among these is the frustrated artist (all varieties). This brand of unfortunate can be easily recognized by the artistic set to his paunch. More often than not he hides behind a plethora of facial hair, and attempts to pass off his . blothering as a lecture. In both respects he is a failure. 17

Along similar line~ i~ the fru~tratell lllinister who after years of devoted service to his denomination dis- covers he is actually a doctrinaire Buddhist and retires to enrifh a faculty by one tnore uut. Often known to digress ir1 lec-ture to current sex scan-dals (and how great they are) his great value is in pre]'ar ing ~llHients to rope with lunatics. The next ailment is less subtle. Each time one sees a mi(ldle - aged \boy in blue\ with his hand thrust in his coat front, one knows he has seen a frustrated militarist. Such men make wonderful fathers and all that is needed to keep them happy is a world war. When frustrated they are known to attempt provoking one. They are also often used in pyschologica! vesearch projects when infants are not available. One might put along side this case the frustrated politician who uses his classes as a sounding board his views. Often known to collapse at the polls he may achieve political offices not occupied by presidential relations. We may conclude by saying that ' tho1..1gh he is gener- ally sick and over-sexed (librarians excluded) there is still something commendable about the American Col- lege professor. His influence is so great that (to take a single example) at this moments hundreds of middle- eastern students are runaing to their dictionaries to discover the meaning of \ahhh-errrr\ due to the senility of but one American professor. Surely in aa ego build- ing situation such as this, an ailment can do nothing but reproduce itself. Students can then do nothing but stand in awe and listen attentively (psych professors excluded) to a man who cmlld probably at that moment name five million other things which he would rather be doing. .. -:-. ~- : ........ · - -· - · -, .- · -··· . . -,;:-.. · Seated (left to right), Union's Faculty Knowledge Bowl Team: Dr. Benjamin Queer- one, Prof. A\itchell Pooveball, Mr. I. M. Per. Culiar, and the Squirrel. All are mem- bers of the Union College Midwifery Department. ls:l . .. • • •· ., ' Q . I t f l 0 i I I } tl . ~ ] · ~ ! · 0 . l ' fill ( ~ I i ~

• • ., •· Q {I ' Q : I ! i . I l. • l i 0 ; i ! . l l :\ · ·e' I ~ Faculty Publications and Research During the Past Year Aam:'\' 1 LARRY, Dept. of Economics \Just See My Book and Other Short Stories\ BLooDGl!T, HAIROLL, Dept. of English \History of the Crewcut in North America.\ BLoonGl'T, HAIROIL, Dept. of English ··Personal Recollections of Walt and Emily.\ Bocci, HENRY l\I., Dept. of Biology ··rracy Sonneborne and Me.\ \H. ]. l\J uller and Me.\ .. L. D. Lederberg and .l\le.\ ••H. Frankel-Conrat and l\Ie.\ ··H. 1). Darlington and Me.\ \B. El>hrussi and Me.\ \R . Sager and 1\Ie.\ \Just Plain l\fe.\ (all of the above are available in a single abridged volume-entitied \People I Have Known.\ BRisToL, SToMP, Dept. of History \A History of the Fighting l\Iarines\ FINK-STEIN, G:t:oRGE LINCOLN, Dept. of History \Investigations of an Anal Society.\ \Germany A Study For the Heil of It.\ FoxiES'T, SHERWOOD, Dept. of Sociology \1\luch Ado About Nothing\ for Random House. \Life and Times With Joe Monane.\ Gtll>A, FRANK, Dept. of English \Annotations on the Kama Sutra.\ GRAVES, CLAIRVoYANT, Dept. of Psychology \Vitalism Revisited.\ FERNSON, HENRY, Dept. of History \The Afghanistan Problem in Upper New York State.\ KATZ, vVILFIU:J.>, Dept. of Physical Education \From Hammerthrow to Horticulture\ KEELER, HAROLIJ, Dept. of Art \How I Got Wayne Nowack To ;\·love To Big Sur.\ \Fully Annotated Edition of the Union Star Want Ads-1965.\ i.EVCOCYTE, fRANCIS LINCOLN, Dept. of Biology \The Art of Doing Nothing Constructively.\ \Leakage Through Impermeable l\Iembranes.\ HARTIN, SNIFFER T., Dept. of Chemistry \A Hand Signal Approach to Chemistry.\ HozLEY, ·WALTER ULim.ICHT, Dept. of Biology\ \Snips and Sn~tils and Puppy Dog Tails.\ !vlURKEY , \VILLIAM i\IoNoToNY, Dept. of Shakespeare \The Carpetbaggers.\ \The l\Iaking of the President-l9i2.\ \l\I y Life Among the LoLenges.\ NELSON, BABY HUE\', Dept. of English \The Biography of Soupy Sales.\ NITMINER, Bono, Dept. of Dramatic Readings .. Letters From Mama.\ .. Your Opinion Is As Good As :Mine-Almost.\



t .'\ ' ~· ' ., ·•· .Enjoy Our Fin~ Home Cooke.d Italian Food in Our ·Comfortable Dining· Room WINTER WEEKEND O.pp. 'fhe 1 Brownell Gate e»1 Nott St. Open :Doily 10 to 3 A.M. Sundays .5 ·f, .M. - 3 A.M. /, / .-'}' · ·. ' I FUN 'ROUND THE ~FUN! ~'R.ound ·Hearth. STOWE'S GREAT SKI. DORM ,., $7.00 per day (with breakfast and dinner) $45.()0 per week 'Ten Special Ski Weeks · 5 days_;Sunday Night to Friday Lodging-~ifts\-Lessons. $62.()0 .JBJB. llBDt · SBYB 8 SI.IGB ror goul ~: Dec. 21-25 Feb. 1- 5 ·~:: jan. 4- 8 Feb. 8-12 Can't get home for the birthday in your family? Then telephone your best bi rtheay wishes. A phone call makes ali the differ- ence ... and it's the next- best thing to being there! ; Jan. 11..,.15 Feb. 15-19 . tj'. New York Telephone · \eJ Pirt of the Natioi!Wide lieU~ ~~' jan. 18-22 Mar. 1- 5 ·. Jan. 25-29 Mar. 8-12 . rite for folde.r or 'tlhone Stowe, Vt. ! 802-253-.7223 t· ********I L ,, I· . '· .1 RITZ REST AU RANT 1'725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring . --.. HOME STYLE ITALIAN .. FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties - Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years · Open 7 Days A Week Boulevard Bowl.· 135· ERIE BOULEVARD 32 AMF BOWLI·NG LANES· - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES For three · Generations ••• ·~ Those 4· ... 'Wht;» Know ••• Hove·be.tn • r~comme11ding HElSHEL MAURICE I, WA~TER Hatriue B. Granbart & Sons ' 1 .3 IJnion Graduates in G.raubart Fctmily'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWfLRY Th·e GALLEY 1735 Van Vranken Avenue Phone 346-] 251 LARGEST IN TOWN ISc HAMBURGER .HOT DOGS 15c (with meat setuce l9c FISH FRYS ----------.-- __ ----- __ 20c French. Fries -~- ........ -_ .. ____________ l2c Thick Shake!? __ - ______ - ___ ,. __ .. _ ... 20c Pizzq and Dinners To Take Out! ·p .d. . · . rovl .. 1ng power for· every· e;nvi:ro:n.ment ••• ])own to Louis', let .us go 1 , Let the Jager freely ilqw. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere . NICHOLAUS RESTAURAN:T Since 1 895 -. Corner 266 Stc;zte and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For .teservatiQns phone FR 4g891 7 provides challenge for virtually every technical talent at Pratt & Whitney Ai,rcraft Being a technically trained man .•. we assume you are looking ahead to a career of exciting growth and accomplishment and that you are looking for a com· pany possessing these same qualities. If our assumption is correct, we would like you to take . a close look at us. For this Company, while solving the problems of the day, thrives on a sort of creative rest~ lessness which anticipates the challenges of tomorrow. And more important to you, it recognizes its engineers. and scientists as the master key to its present success and future progress. From a solid foundation of basic and applied research, our Company has gained a firm foothold in the land, sea, air, and space programs that are helping to shape our nation's future. Our engineers and scientists are exploring ever-broadening avenues of energy conversion for every environment. Should you join them, you'll be assigned early responsibility ••• to apply your engineer- ing }alents to such areas as advanced gas turbines ••• rocket engines ••• fuel cells and nuclear power. Such trail-blazing projects command the best of varied talent. That's why you'll find at Pratt & Whitney·Air• craft men with college training as diverse as their responsibilities. You will also find that opportunities for professional growth are further enhanced by our corporation.financed Graduate Education Program. Your degree? It can be a B.S., M.S. or Ph.D. in: .MECHANICAL • AERONAUTICAL • ELECTRICAL • CHEMICAL and NUCLEAR ENGINEERING ~ PHYSICS • CHEMISTRY • METALLURGY • CERAMICS • MATHEMATICS • ENGINEER· lNG SCIENCE or APPLIED MECHANICS. For further information concerning a career with Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, consult your college placement of- ficer-or-write to Mr. William L. Stoner, Engineering Department, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford 8, Connecticut. SPECIALISTS iN PQWER •• • POWER FOR PROPULSlON-POWER FOR AUXILiARY SYSTEMS. CURRENT UTILIZATIONS INCLUDE AIRCRAFT, MISSILES, SPACE VEH.iCLES, MA~INE AND IN- DU$TRIAL APPLICATIONS. Pratt & Whitney Rircraft . u CIVI$10N OF UNITED RRAFT CORP. CONN~CTICUT OPERATIONS EAST HARTFORP, CONNECTICUT FLORIDA OPERATIONS WEST PALM BEACH, FL,ORIDA An Equal ·Opportunity Employer •!l i, •I ' ~ : ' ., , . . i

d'.aJAonip. fJJJ!l· ado~ TiRlt; £Enlt;l' ·J.:;w~l~ts YOUR JEWELEJt AWAY FROM HOME Mother Ferro's ·Restaurant··· Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollcu PIZZA - Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. ··~.TT~~~~rrT?~~~rr~~~~~rr~~~~rrrr~~ ·. ~ . ~ ~ . \> \> • DEWITT'S ~~~~If Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverc;tges L. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES • RINGS • FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GifTS STATIONERY • PROGRAMS Cl:UB PINS - •KEYS MEDALS • TROPHIES Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouli!e Ave. Syracuse, N.Y. 13210 · sruiiiilr .'ffiitiiii.' I • ·College Tours . • Colleg~ Study .Program$ StUDENT & fACULTY GROUP TOURS Arranged at LOWEST PllCES --· Books Now open for Spring and Summer Vacotions Schenectady Travel Bureau, Inc. Est. 1930 424 STATE ST. S(:HENECTADY, N.Y. PHONE FR 7-8506 Agents For All Leading Airlines - Steam Ship - Rail- roads and Car Rental Cos. ~ .... ..: '44.&...t..4. • 1.._. 4 44-4#' +A* ,1,.1.4 RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT FOUNTAIN $UPPLIES BAR SUPPLIES POLYETHELENE CELLOPHANE. DRUG SUNDRIES NOTIONS NOVELTIES RENTALS: GlASSWARE DISHES SILVERWARE OACY PAPER CO. Svcceuar to J. NOGEE & SONS, Inc. Estoblla!>ed 1888 WHOli:SALE DISTRIBUTORS PAPER-PAPER BAGS !if.t.l'IONERY- SCHOOL SUPPLIES Phone FR 4-4429 28-34 N. Broadway Schenectady 5; N. Y. College Students Faculty Members College Ubraries SUBS(RlBE II OW AI HALf PRICE Printed in BOSTON LOS r::n.ES tCl!!HIM llftd IIIIUm. It or mOiler onllt 10: ..... ~.._ ......... .................. oiUS l VW $1~ D 6 mos. $Ci cD.J- S'n.IDENT fA.QILTY M!MB$ ~ 119-120 JAY STREET LEVI'S ) White - Olive - Blue -4.49 Stretches - 6.98 Corduroy 5.98 DAVI!.'S ~quir~ flltnp ~· 326 STATE STREET Ph, 377-3061 Tues. & Thurs. 'til 9 REgis Re;~laul\anl 138 Jay Street OPEN SUNDAYS 7 A. M. - 6 P. M. Special Prices For Union Students On AlL Meals -;})inner- • Roast Beef or Veal Cutlet with • Choice of Vegetables • Salad and Coffee All For $.90 - Wheat Cakes with butter and syrup -------- .45 Coffee Wheat Cakes with Bacon, Ham, or Sausage..,_ .60 Coffee French Toast and Coffee -~-------~- .... --_,.... .45 With Bacon, Ham, or Sausage-------- .60 Two Eggs (any style) Home fries, Toast, Coffee,45 Two Eggs (any style) Home fries, Ham, Bacon, or Sausage .65 .. .,· for Seniors and Gradua,tes in :MECHANICAL; . . . ·.. . . .. CAMPUS AERON.AUilCAL, Cff'E!Vl·ICAI.,. EJ,.t:CtRI9A:l., . . . . . . . and ME:TAI-LVRGIO:At, \ : ENGU\iEERING · ENGINEERIN~ IVHieliJI.fiHCS · . ., .: APPL!EO MATHEMATICS . '· .. ; \ . PHYSIC$ and . . , ., · ·. ENGINEERING PK:VSI'CS ,. I I' NT .. ERV:IE·ws·. ' ' . . .. WED:NESDA Y, MAR.· 3 u Appointments should be rnc:tC!e in advance thro~:~gh your College PlC:lCement Of:fice I . Pratt& Whitney Aircraft DIVISION OF UNITA!'!CRAF'f' COR~. I An Equal Opparlllnily Emplayer SPECIAliSTS IN POWER ••• POWER FOR I'ROPUlSION'-POWER FOR AUXiLIARY SYSTI:MS. , ·•' CURRENT UTILIZATIONS INCL~CRAFT, MISSILES; SPACE VEHICLES, M,I\RIN'E AND U-ll;tUSTRIAL ApPLICII.TIOfiS• • . · . John Lauritze·n want.ed further knowledge He's findln.g it at Western Electric When the University of Nevada awarded John Lauritzen his B.S:E:.E. in 1961, it was. only the first big step in the learning program he envisions for nlmself. This led him to Western Electric. For WE agrees that ever-increasing knowledge. is essential to the develo{Dment of its engineers-and is help- ing John ·in. furthering his education. . John attended one of Western ·Electric's three Graduate Engineering Training Centers ancl gradu- ated with honors. Now, through the Compa~y-paid Tuition Refund Plan, John is workir'ig towar.d his Master's in Industrial Management at Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute. He .is currently a planning engineer developing· te!>t eqUipment for the Bell System;s revolutionary .electronic telephone swltcho ing system. If you set the highest standards foryourself, both educationally and professionally, we should t~lk. Western Electrtc's vast communications Job as manufacturing unit of the Bell System p~:ovides , many opportunities for 1ast-rnoving £areers for !.'llectrical, mechank:al and industr,ial ettginoors, as well as for physic;al scienc~, liberal arts an~ busine$s majors. Get your ·copy of the Western 'Electric Oaree~ OppOrtunities boo~let .from ~(lur , Placement Officer. And bE! ~ur~ .t() artang~ 'for an interview when the. Bell System· recr'ultr~g team · visits your campus, w,!.$f(!f'fl El¢cfriCMANUF\A9Tt.I~~:C! AND,.SUPPJ.Y .. UNI'ror\''ii;'/f tiiu,~ s. Y$1'[£M~ t\N EOU/\L bPPc:>RTUt.li.TV ~MPtOYER . 1\ 1 ' ·'t!!!!:) ' \! ·,· . ' ' Prlncioal manufacturing locations in 13 citieq00pera11n!i centers in many ofthes'e s~tne citif!S iJh!s ll6 othets throughout the .U.S, r,:,..gineerin~~: Rese.a'rch· C'lnter,.Princeton. N:.J,O!feletvoe Cdro .. $~okle •. Uf .. Little ~ook. Ar~.bGeneral Headdt~arter5 •. 'NawYoik City . ', ! 1 ,' .. ' . ' Vol. 94- Lib~ Ma AU II ToE Last Satur JH08t people iu the festiviti t•ntl, the all-ni Schaffer Lib .into and dam: :\lost of the i>v the foam u·i.:;het· spraye! desks, chail·s, PHd ceiling. 1: ,tudy wa~ nu the side wi·lll ,;taff had e lu~ J'.l\1., in :tl'l'OI·l 11·~~kend polil· l\;o Esti There is n oil the cost which seems t ilar type:; of which Schene 1 eretl in the 11ow being re ceiling tiles ' placed. It is prob! will be ready of the week, This is the its kind, but spect the all-r iJege of using n::>tricted ot· Otherwise, With the E l,rary inciden dent William ·red the wee~ uccess. He l that, accordi Constitution, ~uch weekend entertainment The Roofto ed Winter Vi n:rt in Memc Ltrday at 3:3( Fnday nig iu the Alum tured a Um' ::iherwoods, g-roup. Financial 1 activities hav piled. OliVi4 In R The movie peare's Henr: ed by the LE Committee th The showing: p.m. and 9:~ The plot is with the bat whi<;h Henr 1: rench terr: English prop' the fighting, french Pr Henry was teigned fron: Olivi• Henry V i talents of or Otivter, whc and starred ptrformance. unces of all· ers, was em John Mason Jay Revtew lo-stars are: Pl'incess ll Will!ams as France, Lesl :o.;ewton. Filmed Henry V · 1•. hile World tng. It was country in 1 l~chnicolur sizing the Olivier has IJUence of and prose. the clowns beyond th Shakespeare The revie quite favo Crowther of ··stunningly ing screen : ... achiev uf Shakes! l'onqucring :\1ason Bro opinions of he said, \T:

(f1a1Jwm\p2 fJ.Wl adv~ TIHJe C~nt~.­ Jewt;le;.-~ YOUR JEWELER AWAY FROM HOME 428 State St. FR 4-0183 L G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS • TROPHIES Write or Call Fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N. Y. 13210 . sruof:i-17 ·-riii.vii' • College Tours • College Study Programs STUDENT & FACULTY GROUP TOURS Arrang•d at LOWEST PRICES Books Now open for Spring and Summer Vacations Schenectady Travel Bureau, Inc. Est. 1930 424 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. PHONE FR 7-8506 Agents For All Leading Airlines - Steam Ship - Rail- roads and Car Rental Cos. + .A. A 4. ,1, ,4, .A.. .... 4 ,4, ,1, 4 .t, 4- ,I, .L J. ,A, 4 4 ,4, 4- RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT FOUNTAIN SUPPLIES BAR SUPPLIES POLYETHELENE CELLOPHANE I [)RUG SUNDRIES I NOTIONS NOVELTIES RENTALS: GLASSWARE DISHES SILVERWARE DACY PAPER CO. Successor to J. NOGEE & SONS, Inc. Established 1888 WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS PAPER-PAPER BAGS STATIONERY- SCHOOl SUPPLIES Phone FR 4-4429 28-34 N. Broadway Schenectady 5, N. Y. College Students Faculty Members College Uhraries SUBURIBE 'II OW AT HALF PRICE Printed in BOSTON lOS r::rtES lC!tOOII era t~~~a Cldvertllnlmt anr:1 return tt lllo ~ c:hlc;k or mcnay cmllr to: ,. CW6a .... MMIItlll' .._.....,..., .... ,......_UIIS 1 YEAR $t:z. n cs ml\4o $6 C OJLI EGE STUDENT ~TV MEMBER Mother Fer.ro's ·Restaurant Specializing in Italian • American Food Discount for Union Students 20c on the dollar PIZZA Free Parking Dl 6-9554 1115 Barrett St. ,_., '¥ t T y .- 9 f f' f t t + Y i' t T t i • i 'f f t t T t f T 't 'f' T '+' i\ Y f Y Y f 'T Y T Y f 'f'\'V\; ~ • ~ • I ~ DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages I I 8 - 120 JAY STREET •,A,4A4A4•44444•++4++444+444444*4646A4*•4•+A+4A44 LEVI'S White - Olive - Blue 4.49 Stretches 6.98 Corduroy 5.98 DAVE'S ~quire ~Itnp 326 STATE STREET Ph. 377-3061 jlt. Tues. & Thurs. 'til 9 R~gis Rt;slau~anl 138 Jay Street OPEN SUNDAYS 7 A. M. - 6 P. M. Special Prices For Union Students On ALL Meals -;})inner- • Roast Beef or Veal Cutlet with • Choice of Vegetables • Salad and Coffee All For $.90 Wheat Cakes with butter and syrup-------- .45 Coffee Wheat Cakes with Bacon, Ham, or Sausage__ .60 Coffee French Toast and Coffee --------------- .45 With Bacon, Ham, or Sausage-------- .60 Two Eggs (any style) Home fries, Toast, Coffee.45 Two Eggs (any style) Home fries, Ham, Bacon, or Sausage -- .65 , llnion's l3t;sl Eating Eu}'! ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES for SenJiors and Graduates in MECHANICAL, AERONAUTICAL, CHEMICAL, ELECTRICAl;., CAMPU·S and METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING ENGINEERING MECHANICS APPUED MATHEMJ\liCS PHYSICS and ENGINEERING PHYSI'CS INTERVIEWS WEDNESDAY, M,AiR. 3 Pratt& Whitney Airc.raft u DIVISION OF UNtT:ARCRAFT CORP. I An Equal Opportunity Employer Appointments should be made in advance tnrough your College Placement Office SPECIALIS'I\S IN POWER ••• POWER FOR PROPULSION-POWER FOR AUXILIARY SYSTErllS, CURRENT UTILIZATIONS JNC~Uii£7iTRCRAFT, MISSILES, SPACE VEHICLES, MARINE ANI> INDUS\l'RIAL. A'PPLICATIONS. :)i\ J 1 -. ----~------...,..---.--.tj '1 J John Lauritzen wanted further knowl·edge He's finding it at Western Electric When the University of Nevada awarded John Lauritzen his B.S:E.E. in 1961, it was only the first big step in the learning program he envisions for nimself. This led him to Western Electric. For WE agrees that ever-increasing knowledge is essential to the development of its engineers-and is help- ing John ih furthering his education. John attended one of Western Electric's three Graduate Engineering Training Centers and gradu- ated with hOnors. Now, through the Company-pai<:l Tuition Refund Plan, John is working toward l:iis Master's in Industrial Management at Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute. He is currently a planning engineer developmg test equipment for the Bell System's revolutionary electronic telephone switcho ing system. If you set the higheststand1)rdsforyourself, both educationally and professionally, we should talk. Western Electric's vast communications job as manufacturing unit of the .Bell System provides many opportunities for fast-moving careers for electrical, mechanic.al and industrial engmeers, as well as for physical science, liberal arts and business majors. Get your copy of tl:le Western Electric Career Opportunities booklet from your Placement Officer. And be sure to arrange for an interview when the Bell System recruiting team visits your camptls, ·~ ~ 1.4/(!sfe!t'ft ElectricMANUFAcruR/NG ANo.suPPLY.·UNtroFrH£ sE:t..L sYstEM \liJ AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER -. Princioa !manufacturing locations in 13 citiesDDperating centers in many of these same cities piUs 36 others thwur,hout the .u.s. <:rgineering Resea\rch Center. Princeton. N.J.DTeletyoe Cdro .. Skokie. Ill .. Little Rock.Ark.DGeneral Headauarters.'New York CitY ,) Vol. 94- Lib Ma AUI To I Last Satu most pea !Jle in the festh·it t-nd, the ull-t Schaffer Lil into and <1an .\lo:;t of the h\\ tht> foam t •. ,slwr sprayt dt•sks, chairs ;•nd eeiling-. >tudy \\'US lil tlw sic!\ wit :;la!l\ had c[, !'.:.\!., in areo1 lll'L•kend poli ~o Est The1·e is \\ the eost ll'hieh seems ilar types o 11 llich Schen< lered in the '\'''' being n t'eiling tiles placed. It is prob will be read:~ uf the week, This is the its kind, but opect the all- ttege of usin rl'stricted or Otherwise, With the l.rary incide· ti-nt Willian red the wee •1ccess. He that, accord (' onstitu tion, ,uch weeken• l'lltertainmen The Rooft• t•d Winter ' t:~rt in Mem ttrday at 3:3 Fnday ni~ in the Alun tured a Un ::iherwoods, !(\I'D Up. Financial activities ha' piled. Olivi In R The movi, peure's Hem eel by the L Committee t: The showinll p.m. and 9: The plot i: with the ba which Hen1 French ten English pror t ITe figh t111g ftench l' l!enry was Jl'igned fror Oliv Henry V talents of o Ulivter, wh allll starred J>trformanc< ances of all L·rs, was co John Mason day Rev1ew L a-stars are l'rincess . VV illlams a~ France, Le~ :-iewton. Filmed Henry V \•:hile Worh ing. It wa: l'uun try in t~:chniculor sizing the Olivier has quence of and prose. the clowns beyond tl :->hakespear The revi< quite fav1 Crowther o ··stunningl) ing screen .•. achie' of Shakes eonquering :\Iason Br• opinions o he said, \'l

