.' I,- .... Colb • ' year is team, the U sophs once again, team be resolved. .• both on the tudents 'fl.ock game. Tr1,1e, _ small ~or ' the football for a. college ogy Building the red and 't-, announce- hough br?~d- who are,.. yelling for upperclass- yet few, be- for If, a'S it is for and of the ft· the cold beer Union \doing it.\ frater• i i r· \' ) . Vol. 95 - No. 2 Chi Psi Collects Cup For Se.cond Year Continued on Page 5 Col. 1 (Continu.ed on Page 5. Col. 4) Founded at Union College 1877 FRIDAY., OCTOBER 1, 1965 (Continued on Page 5, Col. 4 Garnet Goes at Two Tomorrow Maneen (62) holds down St. Lawrence runner as Cassels (80) rushes to the scene. By Jeff Browne It will be Tom Hitchcock passing- again to Marc Hurlbut and Jim Williams in tomor- '· row's v.a·rsity football clash 11t Alfred University. The · Garnet will me~t lal!t season's Independent ·College );' Athletic Conference cham~ion · a~ 2 pm for the sixth time smce 1960. 1-'he game will be broad- case over WRUC. Coach George Flood was pleased with his team's per- formance. Passing told the story in Last Saturday's 7-0 triumph over the Larrie-s of St. Lawrence. Hitchcock connected on 18 of 30 aerials for a pass- ing gain of 1:39 yards. The headcoach said the Dutch- men kept conltr0l of the game for two reasons: First, the of- fense never had to give up the ball in poor field position, and second, the Larries usually found themselves with the ball d~ep in their own territory. Punter Marc Hurlbut kept. the baH in St. Lawrence territory when the Qffense couldn~t The (Continued on Page 6, Colurnn 1) New Dor~ns Located In Old Cow Pasture under government contract to manufacture Sherman tanks. ALCO leased the Pastui·e from the College, covered the land with cinders, and at times had 500 tanks parked on the field. This lease expired in 1951; in the six years between the end of the war and the expiration date the land lay idle. The new dormitories now un- der construction near West Col- lege are scheduled for student occupancy in January, 1967. All upper class independents plus the Phi Gamma Delta, Kappa AI:Pha, and Beta Theta Pi fraternities will be housed in the complex. This new construction is not, however, the first time that Un- ion College has used the open expanse of land in its southwest Achilles House Donated corner. kno~ as Ach~lles Field. In 1948 the Rev. H. Laurence . Durmg 1ts long hJSt?ry, .the Achilles donated his house on f1el~ has also been a playmg f1eld A von Road to the College. Rev. for mtramural football gam~s and Achilles, who was Director of Re- a pasture for sheep h!'longmg to lligious Activities on campus from the faculty. 1925 to 1938, is now living in Nott Buys Lot New Canaan; Connecticut. The The .land was purchased by house was sold in November, President Eliphalet Nott as part 1 9 50, and the funds were ear- of the original campus area. Jo- ~arked for the dev~lo·p~ent of seph Jacques Ramee, the French . he. Pasture as ~ playmg field for architect who planned the cam- mtiamural spotts. pus in 1813, designated th~ field Work did not begin on the field as a campus pasture and I~ was until 1954. The new playing area, known as the Pasture until the now renamed Achilles Field was 1950's. Facul~y and local far~- first used the following yea;. The ers were permitted to graze their land was used in this way until cattle and sheep on the land. the construction of the new Jiv- During World War II .the Am- ing facilities began in August erican Locomotive Company v,las 1965. PRICE 15 CENTS

Friday 1 October 1 , 1965 Friday 2 f I 1• AN EV ALlJATION OF UPHEAVAL Jazz: The Work Song Articles Assess Berkeley Outbreak Revolution at Bet·keley: Ed Michael V. :\1Hlt-r and Su>;an Gihnort'. Published hy Dell. Sept. '65 By Hobin Bell This book belongs to the genre of the in- ev1table. ln re·cent years it has become the cus- tom after an event which can make newspaper headlines for more than a few days to issue a. studiously documented book, purporting to be the' last word on the detail of the original event. Like 'ghosted' aut:t>biogra.phies, these documentarie's tend to be unsatisfyj.ng to read because of their lack of integration and their artificial nature. ({evolution at Berkeley is such a book. Yision or llniversity . By Anthony Bucci\ The earl-iest use of West African rhythms in thi:s country was in the work songs orf the slave,s. When the We·st African was forced to work in the 'fields of the South, the song.s his ancestots had ,sung became meaningless to him. Unde1· tlie hot Souther!'\ sun and the whips of slave ma·ste~'s, the traditional songs of Hfe, hunting, fishing a d warfare lost all significance. The love of rhyth and song itself, however, was so ingrained in hjs character that n(} ·conditions, not. even the degr~­ da~ion of s.lavery .could destroy it. As the me$.-- ol'les of h1s Afr1ca.n homeland graduaHy grew :•, weaker and the reality of his present state gr~f stronger, the slave had one thing to sing abort -his work. j I ,. The work song becamf:l an important part Qf the slave's musi:c. It became customary for tl).e Negro working in the fields to sing as he worked and in this manner he established a rhythm to a\ work to. Anyone viho has ever marched in 1 a parade or danced realizes how the movements ·Of the hody respond to rhythm. They seem to come without effort and almo·st unconsciously. For the ·~, man working in slavery it became necessary for him to pace his labor in this way. I To be fa:il· to the editors, one ha.s to admit that their undertaking was not easy. They were \Vorking close to the event, indeed too close - both in time and in geographical distance - to be objective towards their material. There is .suf- ficient interest however, inherent in the sheer juxtaposition of articles by contributors are dif- fering in opinion as Mario Savio .and. Clark Kerr, for the book to be of some worth. These students are protesting attempts to curtail their political activities. The songs themselves were structured. on a ~ solo.chorus a:rrangement. The .leader would sing out a J..ine and then repeat it two or three times. The men working with him would regulate their movements to the rhythm of the fi1·st three lines ;t. and then join him in singing the Ia:st one. This structure of repetitive lines and chorus was to Irving Howe's introduction is valuable in that it formulates into definite questions all the amor- phous mutterings of the Berkeley problem. He posits that every student coming up to an Amer- ican Unive1'sity has a vision of what a university should be, \that the university should serve as a centre for disinterested leaming; that it should be quick with the passions (}f controversy yet dedi- cated to those studies which the outer world may dismiss a·s esoteric; that it should be a sanctuary for opinion; and that in its precincts he should be al>le to encounter men who will serve as models of intellectual discipline and en:thusiasm.\ This is an excellent prologue· to the articles which fol- low. Conscripts for Education By Robert Stolzberg Articles J.Hixed The adicles themselve·s are mixed in their deg1•ee of inte·rest, relevance and readability. On the whole, the writers on behalf of the student cause are more incisive and less tedious, whether or l!Jot one agrees. with the case which they have to .put, than those upholding the faculty, who tend to be defensive, evasive and dull. Kerr's article is typical: behind the mas's of statistics with which he bombards his readers, he ·sits secure in his belief that the academic ideal is to remain at the head of the rat-race with which the universi- ties have been caught up. He is well and truly stuck 9n the horns of the dil~mma between 'dis- interested' academic activity and the obligatory machine-proce~rsing of the ever-increasing bulk of American youth coming up to college as a neces- sary prelude to a career. The same arguments recur in various guises; the ·same words and phases appear similarly; additions to our lanw guage, 'mutiversity', 'the knowledge industry', and- horrible word- \manifestess\ are liberally sprinkled throughout. Free Speech Nathan Glazer's article is more stimulating than most. He claims that the1·e had been a definite tradition of free speech at Berkeley, and that the crux of the trouble lay in the misunder- standillg of the distinction between allowing a speaker to have freedom to express any personal views he chosE>, and allowing students to imple- ment tl'leil· views, e.g. by demonstration. When the administration decided to tighten up their regulations regarding the second feature, stu- dents say this as a threat to freedom of speech and poli·tical activity in general; the clearing of the steps of Sproul Hall was taken as a symbol of open aggression on basic values. Glazer's opinions are mm•e level-headed and coherent than most of the other contributors, who make wide assertions without qualification or expansion. What can be made of Sidney Hook's bald state- ment, \Academic freedom i's not a eivil right like ft·eedom of speech\? Book Criticized Thirty-six pages of varied press comment, cast in as a gratuitous appendage, makes intriguing reading, but the main criticism of the book as a whole must be that it offers too little analysis. While it is valuable as a statement of opinions, there is insufficient content for serious study, and overmuch for the book to be a brief comprehen- sive resume. The Selective Service System is not working. The most striking sign of this was ending of the automatic deferment to all married men without children. Certain changes must be ma.de in the sys- tem, perhaps ending all drafting and substituting intense recruitment, perhaps broadening the eligi- ble ranks. At present, there are over 28 million men t•egi'stered for possible call. This is far more than is actually needed to fulfill the needs of the mili- tary. Consequently, a patchwork of deferrments has been created. The most important of these 'This is one sun.• way to avoid the draft. to the college student is, naturally enough, the student deferment. While this has the drawback of extending one's military liability to the age of thirty-six, it is rare that this is invoked; twenty- six is still the effective finish wire. The draft solves however ineffectively, one problem of the affluent society in which few in- dividuals feel the call of patriotism mom strongly than the call of profit in private enterprise. Even rlurin.g the Second World War, inore than ten million of the ·fifteen million men in American uniform were in it because of the draft. The modern Selective Service Act is very similar to the Act of 1917 which was passed at President Wilson's request to provide for the need's of World War l. About twenty-four million men were initially registered under that act. In the Civil War, 1iots broke out in New York as a re- sult of the institution of the draft. During July of 1863, when it was first srtarted, the rioting was so severe that New York was almost con- At the end of the book I could not- as I had sidered in a state of insurrection and several army hoped when I started on the first page of minute units were needed to bring peace back to the city. print - pass the stock '1066 and all that' judg- One feature of that draft plan was the provision ment that the Berkeley incident was 'a good that a draftee could buy his way out of the draft thing•. The book offers no guide to an answer. by hiring another individual to serve in his place. ;(\;;.;; LARGEST SELECTION OF CAMERAS IN THE CAPITOL DISTRICT Dark Room Supplies - Jewelry - Gifts - Hi Fi Equipment Open 11 A.M. to 9 P.M. -Sat. 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. 1957 FOSTER AVENUE DIAMANTE'S :njoy Our Fine Home Cookec Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate o,n Nott St. . Open Daily 1 0 to I A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. - 1 A.M. These individuals often would hire themselves out to many people, deserting each time and then getting hired by someone else. Recruitment Today's military spends about forty million dollar's on recruitment. They have about nine thousand men in the field to use all the merchan- dising techniques at their command to convince the individual to enlist. Not the le·ast of these is the lie or half-truth. I know of one individual who enlisted in Intelligence after being promised that they would teach him French, German, or Italian. He is now in California learning Alban- ian - probably the world's language least likely to succeed. Another favored practice is to allow the individual to enter the field he wants and then flunk him out. In any evenrt;, today's army needs the draft to fill itJs ranks. The little business of Vietnam has made this clear, if it has done nothing else. But the real question is what to do about to- morrow. We can continue to use coercion to gain recruits or we can increase the benefits to be gained in joiruing to ·such an evtend that enlist- ment will fill the needs. Between these two posi- tions there is quite a variety of possibilities. Society's Failings As I see it, it is a mixture of the two. It is unlikely that just about any inducement will en- able the Army to recruit, voluntarily, en(}ugh dOc- tors or other highly ·specialized personnel to fill its ranks. While offers of training .in specialties would, no doubt, increase the number of true vol- unteers, it is likely that force, or the threat of force, wiU contil111le to be necessary to fill these highly technical positions. But it is at the other end of the manpower spectrum that I feel that the most could be done. The United State'S has a vast number of un- trained, unskilled young men. These men, mainly fmm the urban slums and from the South, often immigrants with language problems, have been, by and large, drawbacks to themselves and society. This is not due, usually, to any intrinsic failing on their part. Rather, it is due to a society which has failed to give them the necessary tools of productive survival in today's world of skilled labor demands. The army could be used as the solution to these men's problems. Academic Instruction At present, the standards of the army make many of these men ineligible. Many fail the liter- acy test. Other's fail t() show a sufficiently high I.Q. I propose that the entrance requirements to the a1•med services be lowered, and that an in· dividual's chronic unemployment be taken into account and move that individual to the head of the available list. Once these men are inducted, the army should provide basic academic instruc- tion, such as reading and writing, an technical instruction which could be tumed into a job when the inductee is released from service. This would, no doubt, reduce the efficiency of the army as a fighting force. Nevertheless, its purpose is to aid the country, and if it can do this more effectively in a non-combatative role, in decreasing the prob- lems of undereducation and maladjustment to the country, we are certainly justified to force the army into this this role. be later carried on to Gospel music and the blues, and was to eventually form the structure of all ~, traditional jazz. Alan Lomax, who has done outstanding work in recording the folk music of many nations, has '\' Bessie Smith derived some of her style from the music discussed in this column. Sll \ taped Negro worksongs which he considers au- thentic. In .1947 he visited the Mississippi State Penitentiary where the post-Civil War custom of ~ using Negro prisoners as forced laborers still exists. Under these essentially slave-like condi- tions the prisoners carried on the tradition of t'h.e work sC>ng. Although Lomax notes that there was a tendency among young Negroes to view the W()rk song and other practices connected with slavery with disdain, there were many older men who still realized the functional benefits of work- ing with rhythm. Because of the deep, Southern accents of the singer'S, the words of the songs are sometimes difficult to understand. To aid the listener Lomax has included with the album a .~. booklet containing the written songs and com- · ments on them. Some typical lyrics are: Well, I hain't ~en to Georgia, But I been told Well, I hain't been to Georgia, boys, But I been told, It's the Georgia women, They got a sweet jelly-roll. Although these lyrics were not written by a Gershwin, they are, in spite of being primitive, very expressive. These songs which many whites have found comfortable to consider non-sensible, are for the men who sing them, meaningful. The .album from which these lyrics are taken is Negro Prison Songs. Although this record is not one which most people would not consider buying, it is nonetheless interesting listening for the jazz buff. A copy of thi's album is available at the Schenectady Public library. FERRO PHARMACY RIT·z RESTAURANT 575 N1ott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 • FOUNTAIN SERVICE 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring - HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS; CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties - Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap - Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week ~----------------~~~~~~~~~--~~~~~~~~~~~~ ·~ .. , ! ' L To ~he ' ) wan~s ,w at the ..{flOney which ing ch is som o-radw '!t' 'i'l pdce. It \'Jpsilo events is not Tl ·'usabl, ly mi~ same spelled ·~akes the re excusa T< :.ines ' \filthy but tt. thougl 'hnder only p a plac< and p1 '· If of 196 then l the re1 Tl pressi< efficie1 \ constr· It . staff t to the whole. ~vm h after 1 T \!lrge• iruto t large• under l~stanti sional times, of lif that l power and Cr .. strict] solid : till de pr&te1 be len trary. tively ,., T mater finiter fl afl'aii·. one i! OI OUJ le-ss. r..to th not h puny . ~ a~ain ~ ·\.jage !>and finite . ,.} will ·way know1

1, 1965 Bucci\ rhythms in the slave,s. work in ancestots Unde1· t~e ma·ste.~, a d of rhyth in hi' ·s the degr - the me - gre, :•· state gr~r sing abo'ft I I ,. part Qf for tl).e he workSd rhythm to •\ in 1 a ·of to come For the ·~ for I tured. on a , would sing times. their three Jines ;t. one. This was to the blues, of all ~ , work has '>f' from the au- ssippi State Sll •.. custom of ~ still condi- of t'h.e there was view the with older men of work- p, Southern the songs To aid the album a .~. and com- · written by g primitive, whites ingful. are taken is record is consider istening for is available (, ·~ .. 1 I ' L Friday, October 1, 1965 \ Concordy Readers C .. . G rtttctze · arnet . '; : .. ;~.p .~:~ .. ::.:.~ .. -.-~.;:: ... ,., ,. ····· ~· .. : ............... . . .. . ··•·•·•• ....... . ~: .• ~.!. ( •... . ::.~:., •, Letters to the Editor .., Yearbook Proclaimed \Trash\ To ~he Editor: ) will give away my Garnet to anyone who \wants to come and get it. ,When I pu.rcha'sed the Gamet \sight unseen\ at the beginning of the school year, I pay my ,money expecting; -that I will receive a yearbook which is . a tribute to the school and the graduat- ing cla:ss, as Well as worth the price. A yearbook is something which the graduates and the under- .. ?.Taduates should ·be able to look upan with pride. This year's Garnet is definitely not worth any price. It wa's edited primarily by brothers of Delta \'Jpsilon and it i's a pictorial essay of DU's social events. This is fine for rushing purposes, but it is not in the character of a college yearbook. The Garnet contains far more than the ex- ,, usable number of mistakes. Names are constant- ly misspelled and on two consecutive pages the same na·me is spelled correctly once and mis- spelled on the following page. Just so many mis- ·~akes can be attr-ibuted to the lino-type operator, the rest are due to the inefficient, hasty and in- excusably poor job of planning and proof-reading. Too often the yearbook contains picture cut- l·ines which are expressly written so as to have \filthy\ connotations. I'm not aga~nst dirty jokes, but they 'should be in their right place. Dirty thoughts do not belong in a yearbook, especially 'hnder the guise of good humor. This yearbook only portrays to the reader that Union College is a place of constant parties, sports, orgiastic feasts and prolonged drinking bouts. 1 • If this is the remembrance which the clas:s of 1965 wants of their years at Union College, then let it be their yearbook; but don't subject the rest of us to purchase what I consider \trash.\ The Garnet for 1965 portrays a very bad im- pression of Union College, an impression of in- efficiency and vulgarity, and this college need-s constructive support not such debasement. It is the responsibility of the entire Garnet staff to put forth a yearbook which is an honQr to the graduating class and to the school as a whole. I hope that this year's graduating class ~viii have something better to look back upon after they graduate. Ch1•istopher Komisarjevsky Class 1967 Garnet a \Mistake\ To the Editor: The 1965 edition of the Garnet has just been eirculated. It would be well to ask the printers if a mistake had been made. They would of course deny it, and they would be right. They likely got the same nasty chuckle ()Ut of reading it a's did the editors in assembling it. Such captions. as \I'm half-cocked,\ \Do you feel a draft?\ and \Where are you staying to- night\ leave little to the imagination. The reader wonders if any taste at all was used in the print- ing of many of the pi-ctures themselves. At the same time he can hardly suppo·se that it was by pure accident that fully one--fourth of the candid snapshots were taken in the same fraternity, Delta Upsilon. Ad>d to that the fact that no mention whatso- ever was made of the 1965 Union basebaH team's winning the Eastern NCAA Small Colle'ge Champ- ionship, and the sham is complete. J.t will be hard to conceal shame at sho,ving this book to parents and alumni. The experience of reading this year's Garnet has m()ved me to- wonder just what a college year- book should be. Should it be a rushing booklet'! A colle•cti.on of risque double entendres? A store of inside jokes? · But the damage already has been done. The '65 Garnet apparently has fallen prey to a group of self-appointed Big Men on Campus patting themselves on the back. It is to be hoped that the decent students and friends of Union will not witness such a spectacle in the future. Harry J. Willis '66 Fulbright Scholarship COMPETITION FOR FULBRIGHT-HAYS GRANTS WILL CLOSE SHORTLY. THOSE INTERESTED IN GRADUATE STUDY OR RESEARCH ABROAD MAY CONTACT PROF. OLDENBROOK, THE PROGRAM ADVISER AT UNION. APPLICANTS :.VH.TST BE U. S. CITIZENS HOLDING BACH~LOR DEGREES BY THE BEGIN- NING OF THE GR'ANT. LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY IR A PREREQUISITE. These aJ'£' the men to whom .the credit for this year's GARNET be- longs: Jolin Forsythe; Fred Wilkes, and Paul T;ler. '65 Garnet Seen As Failure By Steve Granger The 1965 Garnet takes about 15 minutes to read-or rather to look through-so that means only a quarter-hour wasted. But at $6.00 'l At any price ? The new Garnet is just so much ,paper spoiled, a poor Hlustra- tion of what Union College is. Yet this will be the touch- stone for memories of a gradu- ating class; something to be shown to sons ·and daughters; a publication that almost every parent of future Union appli- cants will see on the table in the Admissions Office. This is \vhat anyone will see as the highlights of a college year, and the high points of stud- ent's lives. And what will they see . . . ? Pictures mostly. Pictures of athletes and parties and D.U.'s and ... that's all. Next to the pictures are captions which are either stupid, dirty, incompre- hensible, misplaced, misspelled, or a combination of any of these things. From the pic- tures and their titles it is ob- vious that this is a stamped- ing ground for athletes .. and social athletes and D.U.'s and . . . that's all. What, then, is not seen? ITEM: The baseball team's Eastern Small College Cham- pionship. ITEM: Prize Day. ITEMS: Mention of studies, landmarks, happenings dur- ing the year. In sum, what is not seen is anything like Union College. The basement bars can be found anywhere, and slobs can be found anywhere, and slobs can be found in all places; nothing at all in the Garnet distinguishes Union from an Ozark High School. There was a great opportun- ity for a good yearbook last year-it was a time of transi- t[on-and several themes could have been profitably followed: an exploration of Union's tra- dition and events during Da- vidson's term, Union on the threshold of change, etc. But instead the editors chose a theme (if it can be called that) of everlasting tlrunkenness and irresponsibility, glory for stup- idness and praise for sexually frustrated men trying and try- ing, always trying. The year- book is a dream, wishful thoughts of a bacchanal, not a book ()f' a college year. Technically the book is had. Graduates' names do not match their pictures, in other places. pictures and captions are switched (P. 81), many pictures are dull and would have been cut from any qual- ity publication, \action\ pic- tures are \tired\ ( P. 36,37), players in team pietur~s a1·e mislabeled and sometimes not identified at all! Even though there was a:lmost a year to publish the book, it looks like a last minute paste job. There is not much good that can be said about this latest Garnet, except perhaps that it is small enough to fit into a wastebasket. The happiest thought about the yearbook comes from the knowledge that the editors are gone and will not ·;1JQ.Y.e a chance to repeat this'· fiasco. The sad thought is that this tight fraternity has already left a legacy-a true basta1·d, since surely n()body- will call it h1s-the 1965 Gar- net. African Student SeekS Infi-nite Ties · :J:tt\ :::; : ; ;! ~ Lest I. make very depress~g re~dlng, let !t the student had never been drunk, was n{)t dl'Ullk New Life Results ~~~~~~~g~ , ,... ,;,: I . . .. be emphasized tha.t the c.ontent m V:h!Ch an Afr1- at the time, has never been drunk since. There is w~-~o--.- can student t;ees htms~lf .Is. the Co~tmental Uruted not a more confirmed teetotaller. The stud~:nt is In Adaptations And States, . and not an T~dJVIdu~l friendly home, a· generous enough to allow thi·s wasi).'t outright good fnend~ .or, wh3:t ~s cert.amly true of my o:vn discrimination, but he is at a loss for an explal\- VariOUS Impressions case, a genume Chr1stJan friend. I am not rulmg ation. And what is more it revivifies so mu<!h out the possibility of faked Christian. love, .since of the past: and threatens 'to remain an indellible By Lamin Sanneli This decade is seeing what may well be the \~rgest influx up till now of Foreign ·students iruto the United States. The country sending the largest number of students is - curiously but understandably - Canada. Europe has a sub- '~stantiai number, from undergraduates to profes~ sionals. Both Canada and Europe may, in normal times, be expected to participate in the Bles'sings of life in America. After all, everyone knows that blood is thicker than water. no less a person tha~ St. Paul ~m1tted 1t, so stain on the fabric of his future. The cl<X!k ticks , ,that even here there IS a sore pomt, perhaps a and makes no distinction in its tick-tocks between very tender one. (}ne day and another, one hour ()f one day and an- Somehow, this is not the whole story, and other, one hour of one day and ano:t1ler of a dif- thank heav~ns i·t is not. Some African students ferent day. But the human heart is not so. As have found themselves in rather congenial aca- The Book of Genesis so powerfully puts it: demic institutions. Some h.ave made the transition \ ... and whatever the man called every living from a comparably dull college life to one of stim· creatu1•e, that was its name (Gen. 2-19).\ So ulation. Thus the disillusioned view of life on one much for reactions. A 1;econd experience this college campus is quickly transformed to a com· summer only underlines the significance of fortably uncommitted view on another. A mental memory. castle is const1'Ucted where various activities rang- 3 · Such being the case, an African student may \ find himself busy trying to find something relevant ing from the psychological and physical, to the spiritual dimensi{)n are taking place with a mystic inviolability. The student may be quite happy, but he is not unrealistic enough to realize that he can be unhappy. In fact he is secure in pro· portion as he is able to shrink that possibility to small size. It is not necessary for succeeding events to be themselves traumatic; it is sufficient for them to cause unpleasantnes·s if they are re- minding of the not too sweet past. Union Offers Pattems \ \ \to say in a situation that is not exactly natural. ! His ties are the result, inter alia, of automation, power politics, economic juvenility, social change, an{j conducive psychological forces. Such ties are ~\strictly material, or they certainly are not the solid sinews of steel that bind for good or for ill, till death do tis part. And if any African student preJtends that he is a son of the house it will not 'be long before he is soberly educated to the con- trary. What then are the ties that hold us tenta- tively together. ,., Finite Ties To put it bluntly, without preamble, they are material. And as Einstein has taught us, the finiteness o.f matter is pretty much a concluded ~affaii·. So it is with our ties; they are finite. No one is suggestirug that because of the finiteness o! our ties, the whole show is pointless and use- le-ss. Many people - regretfully - take wives li-to themselves, a great proportion of whom do not believe in God. For them, life is all that the puny senses can app1·ehend. Yet we have not - again regretfully - seen a campaign to ban mar- - \\ because the ties between ,unbelieving hus- band and unbelieving wife ate material, that is, finite. If I saw one such movement, on my word, .,) will enroll in . it. Such couples go their happy · \way in life with the best wi<s~es of goodness knows how many people, and take without grudge . , what they can from life - and we don't organize a plot on their lives, or even mildly encourage a harmless but uncomfortable rotten-egg pelting. If any one is tempted to draw an analogy he1•e let me caution him, because the details are not clearly defined. For one thing, cold-storage has made rotten eggs a domestic anomaly. Be that as it may, the African student irn the United States i's destined to wend his lon~ly way amid-st the labyrinthine alleys of nonentity, sometimes basking in the warmth of condescending humalliS, sometimes stopping at the paternalism of a How- ard Johnson's, or getting a ride of sympathy, but never staying and ever onward. The head is lifted high up, the heart is firmly set, the eyes will not blink. All this takea place !,'ather noiselessly, Unpleasant Experience After an unc>nviab1E> expt>rience in a part of the South, the present writer remembers going through an incident which so effectively recapit- ulated the past. The incident took place in that preeminent rendezvous O>f Uni<m College-Skidmor~ College. Tre accused was ordered out through a rather fragile intermediary whose usefulness in the situati'On i'S an absurdity. The grounds for his evacuation - or extradition'? - was because the safety of the occupants of the building was imperilled by his presence. All this took place in a definite order. And the marvelous thing was that the student pretended sleep! But here we have it. Maytbe that was an innocent fear on the part (}f the house superintendant; maybe it wasn't. Yet, the student couldn't help thinking that if the house superintendant rationally judged the case on its merits she would be more likely to trust the student in a house full of people than she would with a lone individual to whose lot it fell to \care\ for him. And the curious fact is that What patterns of life can be detected remain signifi~tly related to the mental set with which the student is working. But that's private prop- erty. To be in ·a great college li1ce Union, with a relatively long history, and a good many acaden1- ically distinguished membe1•s to the et•edit of its life - to live· in this great heritage and to feel its quickening spirit surging every cell of one's being is to live appropriateiy, profitably and ful- fillingly. That a foreign student can abstract from the complex detail of life in the United States that vital portjon which is the sum of accumu- lating cultural wealth - for a ·student to be able to do this is not only hope - b()osting the con- fidence - building in the present. That time will come when he may say, peering through the dusty slits of time to the shrouded Adirondack of his past - Union. Since my deru· soul was mistress of her choice And could of (colleges) distinguish, her election Hath sealed thee for herself .... ... Give me that ( C()llege) That is not passion's slave, and I will wem· him In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of hem-t .

Friday, October 1, 19 65 Friday, Octobea -~. . NASTY LETTERS TO THE EDITOR '18rown Published Fridays during the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na- tional Advertising Representative: National Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative. 42~ Madison Ave .. N. Y. C. ·Editorial Office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, Scbe- ·nectady Printing Company, 6~2 Broadway. Entered In the Scbe· nectadY Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 1'5o a copy: $'¥ a. year delivered anywhere In the United States. LOATHSOME LIBRARIANS · To the Editor: I should like to bring to your atten- tion a problem which has affected m€ and, I believe, many of my fellow stud- ents here at Union. Specifically, the problem is one of . excessive noise on Schaffer Library's fi.rst floor caused not so much by students or faculty mem- bers, as by the library 'Staff. In order to 1m:o•noR BOARD save themselves time and energy, the BAHRY Nl~Wl\1.\N •r. 7 .. . .... 346 • 9959 ... . ............ ~o.:,Jitor-in-Chief , individuals who work .in this bui:lding · JEFI•'HEY i:ll'l•;cTult 'GG . :;;;.ns4 ............ Business 1\lanager 1. shout their questions across the main RICHAHD s!l<'Tu:-: '66 .... .. .. :lt6·9<3o ... Managing Editor · floor of the library rather than walk MARK KASOWITZ '67 ............................. ·.. .. ... · ·· .................. N~ws Editor across it to the reference desk and ob- : ROBI•:RT !'TOJ.ZRF.Rr. '1:7 I•eature Editor · . h. h . . ANDY cOLE '6i ....................................................................................... svorts Editor tam t e answers to t en· quenes in PAUL SHERWI:-< '67.............................. ....... ... . ...................... Literary Editor more moderate tones. Behavior of this , ARNOLD KATZ '66.. ... .... ..... ......... .. .............. Consulting Editor nature is most inconsiderate to those l\1ATTHEW KATZ ' 6 7.. .... . ............ Page Editor · trying to study on the first floor and HENRY I•'ERGl'SO:>: •;,o ... Faculty Advisor • the mezzanine. In addition, it is pre- Jl'XIOR BOARU cisely the members of the library staff .. ... ... ARsi,tunt NPws Eultor · who should attempt to maintain the l\Iort3· Kumzan '67 ... l\Iar.t~~ Bt rosherg> '6 S ; Donald Hchwartz 'Gi' .............. . Robert Rosenthal '67.. · Joseph HhactPr '61 Ste-vPn Arlt.off 'fil . William Lasnik '6~ ' Kt>nneth UuUS\lUl·t 'tib . . ..A~~oC\iUtP iS'f'WS Editor \ • t t h d · t t d · ............................. Assistant Literary Editor qme a mosp ere con· UCJVe o .8' u ymg. ...................... subscription ~ianager ·I hope that by bringing this matter to ..... :-; ut ional Advert ising Manager · · ·the attention of those coneerned, it will ...... Circulatton Manager be remedied. ' Sincerely, Robert Perne]:]o ··-··· ... _ ........ Assa[\iate News Editor ........ Phutugraphy Editor Cease Fire WITHERED WALLS The structure of the small college has one powerful To the Editor: beam to sustain it beneath crushing pressure from the· Living in North College has resulted leviathan urban university. It is the intimacy of academic. in many advantages for freshme:n. The North College Lounge located on the environment, which permits student and teacher to achieve front steps provides a superb meeting the closest of intellectual contact, that the mite-sif:ed place. Also, as we are supposed to learn school offers as its most attractive and most rewarding. how to g.et along with our fellow Union men, three are placed in a room meant gift. for two with only one closet to provide Why else would a student of considerable ability a workshop for cooperation. choose a school such as Union? The larger university has An easy method of communication is also provided. If one on the top floor more faculty, teaching a wider selection of courses, with wants to contact one on the bottom more extensive library and laboratory facilities. There floor he merely has to take off his socks f U · 'f · f il d t and drop them. He wiJ.l be heard. As would, in fact, be little argument or mon 1 It a e 0 Union men should be close to nature, live up to '\.its declarations about the more personal nature. there are no screens on the windows so f 't d t' that moths and other creatures may he 0 1 S e uca IOn. observed at close hand. Since those .at To a startling degree we do attain our standards in North College are a closely knit group, staircases run right past aU the rooms so that we may hea1· who got in at what time and in what shape. Rut don't get me wrong, I'm not com- plaining. After all, it's ethnic. Sincerely, Alan Ziegler CAMPUS COSSACKS To the Editor: One would think that in the wilder- ness of the Mohawk Vale,. and especi- ally in the wilds of Union College Cam- pus, caressed by nature's pristine glory, the problem of disposing of an automo- bile for she1•t periods of time would he uttel'lY unknown. 'But the people of this virgin land re£use ,to accept the fact that they are not city dwellers, and impose restrictions that would leave Manhattan drivers in- credulous. Is there a single soul among the admini-stration, the student activities office or that impressive retinue of cam- pus 'Cossacks who ean explain to this footsore all-night studier why the li- brary staff needs the space of forty cars to park its crumpled five? Is there anyone, anywhere, who can de:fine fully the weekday value of a car if it cannot he parked down campus even fo1• the most pressing- reasons? Surely 11ot even you, editor of our campus news- paper, can concei:ve of a par.tly plausible answer to this most taxing of 'life's enigmas. No answer is plausible because this entire, insane puzzl'e is generated in the minds of the residents of Schenectady who inflate their ego by talking of park- ing problems while nine-tenths of this school is consumed by useless trees. We talk of this being a planned campus. Ramee, to be sure, planned horse stops, but not parking lots. This, however, is 1965, not 1813, and it is time the adminis- tration recognized the need for black- topping library field. I call all students who may ever want a lift anywhere to join in solemn protest on that same muddy ~r· continued In.. anothm• ac field. this Saturday evening. If immed-· • l '1 Lockwood anno iate action is not taken, I will immolabe ··· , the names of t myself. • . •lefor the ye$.r 19 Passionately, 'One of the hi Artemis Scored a Union stude N ott Scho' ar 1 SEEMY SLOBS To the Editor: \A coHege is a quiet place, dedicated to the intense .pursuit of learning and erudition. You will find your experience \A\ average d1 e. · ing school yea students attaim scholastic avera were nomi.natec • by the Union C< ·, Phi Beta Kapp The names of Seholars are: R ~66; ,Robert M. ert P. Ebert, at the school of your choice truly .a unique one. Ah . yes, how idyllic. The green grass, hallowed halls, friendship, the pursuit of the unknown. Truly an .. existence for a king.\ Thus drooled ' Bair's College Guide as it enticed me from a chosen career in the milita·ry (noisy, uncouth, poorly paid, and, of course, dangerous) to dedicate my mind Gifford, '66; M '67; Douglas E. ·ton A. Kamzar ·rKr.aft, '6. 8; Way Robert W. Mil< A. Miller; '66; .:. · '6~; Richard R . to the pursuit of knowl€dge (q1,1iet, suave, beautiful, friendly and intellec- tually satisfying). Having spent some time at college, I would like to call the attention of the world to the sham being perpetrated on it. First, college is not quiet. Pile dri:v- ing (so necessary to the modern college ~after aill, a college is not a college without a piledriver,) noisy Hbrarians (shush, people are studying,) itinerant dogs (Woof-Look at that broad-is she a dog or a dog?) and freshman-rul'jhing fraters .(Yes, I'm sure you'll find DUt house congenial l:ilberal. No, we never goof off. Those :football players, and the music? Sent from ne:xit door to give wellrounded image . . . ) an contribute to the disruption of Iife. Suave? The modern campus would seem to belie such an assertion. (What do you mean puddinhead haircuts are cool: the Beatles art? I thought we were civilized: we are? Cool man, and di.g that chick.) Oh yes, study. Let's see, Chern, Bio and History tonight. If nothingo else, there's still intellectual stimulation. Betty-Jane; Skidmore; a date with her for me? As I said, a fraud. Edward D. Crimes l•. 41Pal'd A. Powell, \' I RaJlelson, '68; : · ~··,,.,7;. Peter K. Sl . Stoner, '66; '( · ;s, '66. 94 v Gree ~r on Monday, l ninety-fo-ur Ven fbclimaxing their the Uruited StatE ion Co)lege ca greeted by Presi 1 _ visit representee \l\·of an exchangE began with a tr aires,. a Scoti Sch()o1 singing ~ 4 ) Venezuela, in At Roberts Ho the extensive honors and project work done on upper-class levels. But we can do much more. Too many faculiiy spend -=========================rr:========================. The ninety-J students, repres different high academies and their country, : early Monday n • met by Presiden· fessor Alan Chahman of th Modern Langua the day lecturing at possibly one hundred students without ever speaking to one of them. Too many students remain closed-mouthed at apparent faculty impenetrability, creep- ing from class to class for years, and cringing at the professorial glance as they did before their first grade teachers. Informal friendships ~re the most valuable, but few are made on faculty initiative, while most students com- ing from crowded high schools are never aware of the possibilities. How many freshmen would think of asking their \adviser\ or prcSfessor to West College or Hale House for lunch? How many faculty drop in unexpectedly at their old fraternities for a few hours' conversation? There is a multitude of ways to attenuate the hickory stick antagonism between student and professor. The Col- lege grounds could actually develop into a moderately friendly community rather than a daily battleground. Pennies for the Painters The arts and humanities have been given an educa- tional back seat during the past decade in deference to a ballooning concern for this country's competitive position in the sciences. An awesome amount has been granted by the Federal government and private foundations for re- search and. instruction on higher and higher levels in those fields considered vitally· important to our security and national preeminence. The arts, sadly, have not been deemed significant in this respect. Now the President has, at long last, signed a bill for the creation of a National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities which would be endowed with $63 million, a pittance in comparison with support for t,he sci- ences. The funds are expected to aid the dissemination of learning in these fields in an attempt to bring richer cul- tural values to utilitarian Americans. Most significantly, grants will be made to individual writers and artists of all genres who, like many a reseach scientist, fall into bad straits in the absence of a patron. The bill should serve as an inspiration to schools such as Union whose consideration for the fine arts and human- · ities is dolefully undernourished. If we demonstrate to the government that we are willing to help ourselves, then we may expect a good helping of the federal fund. Unfortunately, stacking a bunch of classrooms and offices in a building a few feet from the library and dub- bing it the \Center for the Humanities\ is a far cry from making Union attractive to practicing artists, professional touring theater and first class gallery exhibitions. Despite the fact that every building on the left side of the campus is complimented by a look-alike on the right side, there is a distinct imbalance on these hundred acres that can only be rectified by an intense administrative con- cern for Union's poor showing in the teaching and nurtur- ing of the arts. i'\~T'o:~'liW'\\''' .. ,,;,~'V)'i:'i:Ml<Mti1'@t>:@~:':':J'~'Mi?i'\.h·t''''fii'~@:£';'~::\'i!l(·ilrii'i:%\\M#· · I Campus Calendar !iJsatmday, October 2, 1965- :!!'~ \W 2:30 p.m.-Varsity Soccer; Union vs. Hamilton, Daley Field i! 2:00 p.m.-Freshman Soccer; Union vs. Hamilton ~ ~~Sunday, October 3, 1965- ~:: \1'~ 7:SO p.m.-International Relations Club; Foreign Student Re- i!?: ception; Hale Hou!'e Student Loung;e *' t.f,~. ki. lilTuesday, October 5, 1965- i!i ~j 7:00 p.m.-Student Council MPeting; Hale House Student!~ ;'l( Lounge ''·' ~ 7:15p.m.-Philomathean Society Meeting; Phi Beta Kappa~ W Room· Schaffer Librarv . :;t1 !l.~.~~ ! • \ ;:::;:: I ~Wednesday, October 6, 1965- ~~~. illi :i:OO p.m.-Varsity SoccE-r; Union vs. Vermont; Daley Field ili~ ~~~ 4:30 p.m.-Outing Club Meeting; Hale House Student Lounge~! \;} 7:SO p.m.-Newm~n Association Lecture, Father Robert Willi;~ ~1 Memonal Chapel tl ~Frid~y~ 09cto~;;~1\~~~;'is~. Treasure of Sierra Madre·, EE22 L.l.~ t .. ~.~.1.: --~·' .f;,,mw,;~•:x,·,w·~,,:~r.)·;.:;·.:;,~ .. }·: ·.: \\. : ~.,.,, •. :.,.,.,,. ·.:,· .... ,.. ·.. :: ·. ;. :: · ... .o.:. :, ' , ... '·\\•>\~'''~{·\':~ ::,:l.\'~,j;,,,~\l'.'i·'1'':'~'.A:r'E''ZMdwl BASSWEJUNS For Men All Sizes JR. BOOTERY 147 Jay St. FR 4-7717 SUPERIOR BARBERSHOP 601 NOTT ST. ( Across from Nett Gate) Specia liz:ing in Flat Top & Ivy League Hlaircuts 9 f t' 't' T ¥ \t' T f 9 f T T Y 't t t T T' f f t T t T t T Y t Y Y f '¥ T ¥ t '9 t 'f .y Y t 'i t T t' • DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118 • 120 JAY ST:REET • A • 6 • ' ••••• 4 • I t 4 • f 6 ..... 6 • 6 ' • ' 4 •• I, •• I. • ' + • + -, • -• + •• MAMA BIANCHIS AMERICAN and IT ALlAN FOOD COOKED TO ORDER Tuesdays and Thursdays Special HOMEMADE SPAGHETTI and MEATBALLS 1 135 Barrett Street Deansgate's imported Scottish Shetland Jacket $1.00 There has never been a fall when the sport coat was more in evidence •.• when natural shoulder tailoring was so important • • • when colorful plaids, stripes and herringbones were so popular ... for the Deansgate man. · - 75;00 with vest 85.00 , . Union College fc er a welcoming Martin, the gro sang their natio lowing this, P Bris.tol delivem lecture about U At the conclw ing ceremonies, · vited to West C and donuts. Af had been servec two student guid ·~ on a tour of tl: ended with a vh book store and for each memb< C(Jmplimenti.l of The two week end on Wednesdo when the group Music In trod Starting this r.ourse will be ac curriculum. Th• 12, is an introdu is a one semest• the first half ill fes·sor Curtis, ar by Professor Wi Music 12 ex· eight \masterwo· different periods ing contentpotaJ not a survey c training is neith nor a major cone The eight piec, and discussed as tel\piece's from 1 iod or as a pi< broke new grour music. Some (}f the s< elude: \Combat Gl01'inda\ by 1\ pheus\ by Glud by Mozart, Be - Symphony, a pie and contemporar Bol 32 A J

she out ever and give bute are we and Bio her Continued from Page l · fessor of Art; Melvin H. Fine, In- F h 1 structor in Botany; Michael J. · ·ros . '' ·1 ~~ Foster, Instructor in Philosophy· John M. Grandin, InstructQr i~ Ger~an, and Hubert P. Grunwald, (Continued from Page 6) born and educated in Holland and Assistant Professor of Physics. rereived his degree in medicine· . Other new appointees this year there. He spent some time at mclude: Robert J. Krohl Instruc- men vying for each berth. Com- the Mayo Clinic, practiced pro- tor . in Physics; Frank 'p, Kuhl, petition is particularly keen at fessionally in .Schenectady and Assistant Professor of Electrical linebacker where seven men are Six of Union's Dormitory Coun- selors met with th1·ee times as many of -their Skidmore counter- parts to discuss the ,pO'ssibiiitie~: of planned gatherings for Fresh- men from the two schools. The Counselors unanimously agreed up~n the· necessity of keeping all social functions limited to small took an interest in the research Engineering; Abram V. Martin still in contention. field of biology. At the General Professor of Mathematics; Charle~ Electric Company, Dr. Rozendaal S. Olton, Instructor in History· was the Manager of the Biologi- Charles A. Plesums, Director of cal Studies Division and did work Computer a?d Data Processing in the study of the effects of rad- Sen;Ices; r:r:Imothy J. Robinson, On offense, those fighting for the remaining spots are: Right end-Paul C0stello, Joe Grabowski i-ation on tissue culture. Dr. Assistant Director ()f Admissions; G d v· Donald A. Ross, Instructor in uar s- mce Ruhl, J·ohn Dene- Rozendaal is presently doing Cl·assics,· J. Richard .Shanebl·ook frio, Doug Mele, Ed Blechner part-time research at the Gen- eral Electric laboratory. He is Assistant Professor of Mechani~ Center-John Glidden, Vito Pa- · groups so that the superficial at- mosphere of the \cattle show mix- er\ :would be reduced, and to cre- ate mstead a more casual and in- formal air. a Trustee of Albany Medical Col- cal Engineering; John W. Sin- tenza lege and is an active .participant t?n, Instructor in History; Fer- in several local community proj- dmand Stangl, Instructor in Ger- Left tackle-Ted Jennings, Jeff ects. Dr. Rozendaal will be man; Twitty J. Styles Assistant Miller teaching the Human Biology Professor of Biologicai Sciences· New Style Mixers Discussed With thi·s premise in mind, the counselors, led by Freshman So- cial Co-ordinator, M·arty Pinson, came up with several interesting and different idea·s. One was to have a group of Skidmore Fresh- men attend some of the evening concert series at Union with the Frosh from one dormitory section W. Franldin TI'tus, Assoc·a.te' 1 ·Left end-Phil Van Kusen, Ron course at Union and maintains a laboratory here in the mechani- ·~rofessor of Physics; and Wil- McAvoy cal engineering workshop. ham Tsungchien Woo, Assistant Professor of Chinese and Direc- Defense: Other faculty appointments at tor of Area College Chinese Un.ion are as follows: Mrs. Maria Language Programs. 'Tackles-Murray Schwartz, Jen- .T A t\ - nings, Mi.Uer . s Iz, part-time Instructor in New faculty assistants are: or floor. Coffee and cake would 9 4 V 1 V • • t be served afterwards and ar- • · enezue. an ISl · ors rangements made to get the girls back to Skidmore before their re- Linebacker-Carey Swope, Steve Herrick, Denis Moffitt, Norman Lasda, Patenza, Cower, Picken Spanish; James L. Barlow, As- Ralph Gasper, Assistant in Me- sociate Pr0fessor of Biological chanica! Engineering; Ralph Hau- Sciences; William B. Bennett, tau, Part-time Assistant in Phy- Assistant Professor of Econom- sics Instruction, and Kenneth G. ics; Robert W. Benson, Instruc- .Johnson, Assistant in Geology In- Halfback - Frank D'Antuono, tor in Physical Education; Henry struction. Grabowski, Raynor, Birdsall G d B .. p • d quired weekday curfew. Another re .· ete . y rest ent suggestion was Sunday aftemoon · · . • · sporting activities such as touch States to return home to Vene- football, ·softball, etc.-\anything ;mela. to get Ol.lt of these sordid walls,\ On Monday, September 271 Rotary Exchange p 1 ·ogram as Ene girl put it. d ninety-four Venezuelan students, The exchange program, the first . ;v-eryone seeme very enthus- axing their two week stay in of its kind between Scotia-Glen- 1astlc about the forthcoming the Uruited States, visited the Un- ville High School Choralaires and plans including Dean Olds, the ! ·on College camp-us· and were y 1 t d ts new Dean of Women at Skidmore. enezue an s u en , was span- Th fi t ffi · 1 Dane, Instructor in English; Wil- liam Dean Eckert, Associate Pro- Campus Planner Hired By Union greeted by President Martin. This sored by Rotary International, the e rs o Cia gathering is ten- visit represented the second part Scotia Rotary Club, and inlter- tatively planned for the Brahms Mr. Samuel B. Zisman has been of an exchange program which neighboring communities, and in Concert on the evenillJg of Octo- hired by Dr. Harold C. Martin, began with a trip by the Choral- neighboring communities, and in- ber 1 2. President of the College, to plan aires,. a Scotia-Glenville High terested citizens, both in Scotia new campus buildings. Sch()o1 singing group, to Caracas, and Venezuela. From August 13 to Venezuela,. in August of this year. A t 29 . Ch State Glfl*ln. nts Mr. Zisman, who is from San ugus , sixty oralaires and 1 ..,.. An·tonio, Texas, is one of the d their ten adult chaperones, hav- t ' t d d Roberts Hosts Stu ents ing collected $ 2 0,000 for trans- coun ry s mos renowne an ex- s h . la h • pensive campus planners. He The ninety-four Venezuelan portation by community drives C Q rS th planned the new campus of Skid- students, representing ·over forty went ()n a singing tour of Vene~ '1::'' more College and i's currently different high schools, military zuela. ,......., V working on the campus of the academies and universities in ..L 0 ..L~ er,dUSOHf University of Bogota, Colombia. their country, arrived at Union Ed c f e early Monday morning and were • OD • • • • No Plans Formulated met by President Martin and Pro- fessor Alan Roberts, Acting Continued from Page 1 This year, Henry Ferguson, As- The planner will return to Un- Chahman of the Department of on the Middle East. He holds a .sociate Professor of History is the ion's campus in several weeks. He Modern Languages and host for Bachelor of Science degree from recipient of the New York State. recently spent several hours sur- . Union College for this event. Aft- Union, a Bachelor of Divinity Faculty Scholarship in Interna- veying the campus, but has not er a welcoming address by Dr. degree from Rutgers University, tiona! Studies which was started reached any definite decisions. Dr. Martin, the group stood up and and honorary degrees from Un- las-t year at Columbia University. Martin has said that no definite th · · 1 th F 1 · Th plans would be announced until sang ell' natwna an em. o - . wn and from Rieker College. . e grant enables Professor lowing this, Professor William Goldman Has Varied Career Ferguson to participate in the fac- Mr. Zisman returns from Bogota. Bristol delivered, in Spanish, a Dr. Eric F. Goldman is Rol- ulty semina·r on Contemporary Contemplated additions indude lecture about Union College. !ins Professor of History at South and Southeast Asia at the a student center and a fine arts At the conclusion of the morn- ing ceremonies, the group was in- vited to West College for coffee and donuts. After refreshments had been served, Mr. Terry and two student guides took the group on a tour of the campus, which ended with a visit to the campus book store and a small present for each member of the group, CQmplimenti;l of Union College. The two week tour came to an end on Wednesday, September 29, when the group left the United Music Course Introduced Starting this semester, a new 4 -\-·'\A\'\ 0 ~ will be added to the music curriculum. The course, Music 12, is an introduction to music. It is a one semester course, taught the first half ill the year by Pro- fessoi\ Curtis, and the second half by Professor Wilson. Princeton University. In 1964 U~iversity once a week, and per- building. President Johnson named him m1ts him full use of its facilities. Special Consultant to the Presi- dent. Dr. Goldman is an author- Ford Aids Professors ity on American history of the The scholarship was originally Twentieth century. In 1952 he started last year by donations published a highly lauded book from the Ford Foundation. Prof. Rendezvous With Destiny: A Ferguson's scholarship is sup- History of Modern American Re· ported by grants from the form, for which he received the New York State Department Bancroft Prize. He has written of Education and U ni'On College. The Crucial Decade-And After, A scholarship of this type per- America, 1945-1960, plus many mits members of small college other books. Dr. Goldman faculties to keep close contact is a regular reviewer for both with the contemporary world and the New York Times and the New its problems. York Herald Tribune Sunday The grant will be especially Book Sections. Since 1959 he has beneficial to Profes-sor Ferguson been moderator of the NBC dis- in that his research project will cussion program, The Open be \well under way\ by the time Mind. For the last twelve years he plans to leave on a sabbatical he has been elected \best lee- thi~ spring. He hopes to go to turer\ by the Senior Class at ~nd1a where he will begin writ- Princeton. Dr. Goldman teaches Ing a history of public adminis- a course entitled \Modern Amer- tration on a district level. ica\ there. He has taught at IFC. • • Continued from Page 1 rushing rules ai·e also included. Controversy Aroused The figures given in the back of the booldet have aroused some controversy and scepticism. Dean Pollock felt that, \They don't leave me with a great feeling· of accuracy.\ Ro·bert :Ploss, the cmnpiler of the disputed information, l'eplied that he had gotten his figures from either the president or the treasurer of each of the fraterni- ties and that they were as ac- curate as possible. Princeton since 1940. Dr. Gold- man received his Ph.D. in history from Johns Hopkins University at the age of twenty- two. On Saturday, Dr. Gold- EASTERN AVE. PIZZERIA Music 12 exposes, in depth, , man will receive an honorary de- e·i-ght \ma·st. erwor.ks\ from widely I g.re_e . from u_ nion. 860 EASTERN A. VE. different periods of music, includ- ing contemporary music. It is not a survey course. Technical · training is neither a prerequisite · nor a major concern of the course. TimE CEUIEI\ The eight pieces will be studied and discussed as either the mas- terpiece's from a particular per- iod or as a pioneer work that broke new ground in the field of music. Some of the selected works in- clude: \Combat of Tancredi and CIOI'inda\ by Monteverdi, \Or- by Gluck, \Magic Flute\ zart, Beethoven's Sixth a piece by Debussey, \~••+~·~ WOI'kS. YOUR JEWELER A. W A. Y FROM HOME 135 ERIE BOULEVARD Boulevard Bowl 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PRIEMISES WE DELIVER Phone 393-0870 for the Finest PIZZA 10 \'a off for Union Students! WELCOME AGAIN 2 or more SHIRTS • • • • • PANTS •• 49c SUITS M • 98c Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5193 Just Around the Corner from Mohawk Natio.nal Bank For three Generations • Those Who Know. Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTEit Maurice B. Graubart.& Suns '\3 1./nion Graduates in G.raubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY Put yoursell .: \ ~·. on speaking terJDs \'\lth the ~orld Read The New York Times Have The Times delivered every morning at low college rates. For service, get in touch with: ROBERT A. SEEFRIED BETA THETA PI 21 Onion Ave., Schenectady, N. Y. Phone: FR 4-1771 i I

GARN.ET CRITICISM Page 3 Concordy Sports NASTY LETTERS Page4 ..... --G-~a_r_n_e_t_A_e_r-ia_l_s_E_! · _d_g_e_L_a-} r....--r-,-. e-s,-7--0-· ;--r--J K_e_g_t_er_s ____ E_1 x-p--a-n-·· d-T-: -o- Booters, Hamilton To Clash Here ·Thirty- Two Players Football Continued from Page 1 powerful sixth-best-co !lege-punter in the nation last year booted the ball eleven times for an average of 41.8 yards. Quarted>ark Hiteh- cock added a 46.6 ya·rder on a quick kick in the third quarter, the only time St. LtLwt·ence was in scoring position. Soccer I . The union Vars.ity soccer team will try to rebound from a 5-1 loss to Rochester last Saturday when they play at Hamilton to- The Dutch Classic, Union's A. B. C. sanctioned bowling league, will expand to thirty-two members this falL The circuit, folh.J.ed last year by Bob Erianne, '68, will again be non-handicap and will roll each Monday night from 9:00 to 11:00, at Boulevard Bowl on Erie Boulevard. Open only to the college comm1:mity, the Dutch Classic is approved by the athletic department, whieh grant's weekly main- tenance creits to active participants. Competitors wiH be organized into eight teams by the league's Board of Directors as soon as each new member establishes an average. !\lartin Champ mot·t·ow iN the Garnet home op- ener. Larry Martin '66, capt1.ued the individual championship last sea- . son when he edged teammate Erianne in the final game to win the Coach E\·ans started six sopho-· croWn by twenty points. Both averaged 175 for the season, and with mores Saturday, but found the their team, Lou's barber shop. led the league. • •· The only Sl't:lre of the game came early in the fi r~t quarter on 1 a Hitthcock to Hurlbut pass. All H. rdlicka ·kicked the connrsion. Place-kicker Hrdlicka had tried a :lO-yarcl fielcl g-oal Parlier in the I I Dutchmen could not con.tend with' Sophomores Ed Fauth and Capta.in Bob Blinn of \George and the more experienced Rochester Bob Show\ fame fi.Jled out the championship squad. Ken Merchant, ·• eleven. The Ga-rnet played a \1·e- '68, of Dambrose Cleaners, the runner-up team, finished third in the II spectable\ first quarter, and individual race with a 166 average. game, hut it ft>ll ~ho1t. The offensive line was expected I l.:nion team. Coach Flood is still \ ~rstty s~ccer playe1·s practice llefore their Saturday home game tn be the weakest aspect of the I ., · concerned with its inexperience, _\_·Jt_h_H_a_m_ll_t_o_n_. -------------------- but was pleased that the pass I protection held up un~ler a strong I Footba II Statistics St. Law1·ence rush. \It (the off en- I sive line) has to be im.pl'oved in RUSHING, the runninu g-ame \ said Coach Player Rush. Goins Lost TDs ~A.D., Beta Fl d h ' ! Ramich, HB ·15 37 10 00 • 1 Hitchcock, Q~ 15 27 46 I d . 'Williams Wa 1 0 ·0 Flnod was very p eased an nn- ' pressed with record-passer Hitch- Opp. Totals cock's first game. His 18 romple- Union Total tions gained 129 rards. Hurlbut PASSING, gathered in nine of them, Jim i Player Williams seven and George La Hitchcock, QB 56 31 186 64 37 D 0 o 0 Lead Frat y::. TD:1~Football Porte grabbed t~vo Union Total • Opp. Total Att. 30 30 39 Camp. 18 18 10 139 I 139 1 111 0 The defense stood .out as the RECEIVING, high point of the entire game. It Player throttled the Larrie passing at- i ~i;\~~~s Ewa tack, allowing 10 completion~ in. LaPorta,' WB Cough! 9 7 2 Gains 80 37 26 39 attempts. Safety Larry Mc- Donald intercepted one of them I' Union Totals 18 139 . . Opp. Total< 10 111 T~ Convo I T')1e 1965 Intramural Football o g: season began last Wednesday, ~ _ I Septemb\!r. 22, with contests at o () 4 :45- and 8:00 on Alexander and I CUMULATIVE SCORE BY PERIODS, I Union 7 0 0 D-7 Opp. 0 0 0 D-0 o [) Daley- F·ields. In opening action, Kappa Alpha tromped Phi Sigma Kappa, 26-0, Beta 'Iiheta Pi smashed Phi Epsilon Pi 26-6, MISCELLANEOUS, t Delta. Upsilon beat Phi Delta Theta ~0-6, while Sigma Phi edg- Union Opp. ed Theta Delta Chi 12-0. 2 First ·!>owns, Rushing 5 first [)owns Passing 1 First Downs Penalties 8 First Downs Total 4 Penalties against 45 Yards Penalized 1 ' Fumbles 1 Fumbles lost INTRAMURAl GAMES NEXT WEEK Southern Northern October 1 11 5 [) 16 8: 76 1 1 Eastern. Psi U-Phi Sig KA-Ind Theta Delt·D lC Sig Phi·Phi SIG K October 5 Chi Psi-Phi Ep Du-Phi Gam Phi Delt-Bata October 6 Phi Sig K-Theto Del't Sis Phi-lnd October 8 For the purp<»se of scheduling, the houses are divided into three leagues. Sig Chi, Psi Upsilon, Phi Sig-ma Delta, Delta Phi and Al- pha Delta Phi comprises the Southern League. The Northern League consists of Phi Delt, DU, Chi Psi, Phi Ep., Phi Gam, and Beta. Theta Delt., K A, Sig Phi, Phi Sigp1a Kappa, Delta Chi, and the Independents make up the Eastern League. The team with the best record in each league will face its c<»unterparts from the oth.er leagues for the champion- ship. I Ka-Delto Chi Quartfrback Hitchcock carries I o Phi-Phi Sig Dell Delta Chi-lnd the ball in an effort to elude the Larrie line. The 7-0 shutout la'St Saturday against St. Lawrence was the first shutout in 28 games for the Garnet. they trailed, 2-1, at halftime. . Martin established the loop high set'ies at 619, while Fat~th Larry Mc~~arlane scored the registered the biggest single, a 245. Jim Str1:1,ltor, '68, won Bowler lone Garnet goal on an mdirect of the Year honorl:l as hi·8 uv~rage increased deven points ove·r the free kick which bounced off a Rochester fullback into the net. · season. Outstanding Performers Hochester scored its second The Dutch Classic will honor its outstanding performers this tally at the end of the first quar- Tuesday night at 7:30 Bernie's Mid HiH Tavern, 766 Eastern Ave- Ler, when the Dutchmen were nue, will hoot the awards banquet, featuring the presentation of the penalized fo.r a \hands-ball\ on a trophies to last y€ar's league members. disputed call with one second left in the period; Rochester Students desiring information about the '65-'66 season should . took the successful free shot af- contact El·ianne at the Phi Delta Theta House, 346-9730. Freshmen ter the period ended. Goalie To- are welcome to sign up. bey Olsen made a near save on · the kick, but the ball twisted in- ---~----------------------- to the cords. All players saw action in last week's contest, and no one played in the entire game. ,69 Gridders • • ' Vol. 95- Col ~Ha~ In~ Dr. Ha1 ,,.fourteenth Chancello1 Convocath Taking gates of a societies i Board of student hi cession fl • Chapel, tl of the Pr degrees. . Leading 1 shall, Wil headed ca color gua the pace · •sion was in full ac: College a1 and Dele among th Davidson, American Next c.: bearing t \'hers of tl Student ( The COl fessor St• ~.the First fered the Meade tees, wei• -.importan1 to the n: that Uni setting l• .. over nine Followi ings wen college . < ' ''Ec Del Pane ~agreed tl research The afternoor ,. Pres coming t Chief Si United :t- tJnivet'Si1 Princetor of the :M Dr.! 'is the ph Chie of educa1 quality o \' educatiQ! tors.\ E \eross-f1· Dr. Jdoes a c creasing deeper, r the· purs ._ contribu1 · In a extreme1 to this middle g \ tion in r indirect provide: He I . cator, tl I world p1 ties. Th ones tha ·~ Dr. class\ i1 changinl done in 1rbe put i has reje Dr. run our art acth (i suggest Dr. educat01 !1 ,bility f< amateu1 criticize But ,~He note govern·n not an

$t I;> ~ league, will on Erie • Classic main- as each 'lit sea- win the •· with and •• in the Fauth • Bowier the • ers this rn Ave- of the .. should ~ ' Vol. 95 - No. 3 College Installs ~Harold Martin . In Presidency Jradi.tional Ceremony Marks Inauguration By M:arty Strosberg Dr. Harold Clark Martin was inaugurated as t/fourteenth Pre§lident Gf Union College and eighth Chancellor of Union University in an Inaugural Convocation held at Memorial Chapel. Taking part in this historic event were dele- gates of 188 colleges, universities a·hd learned a societies in addition to fa<>ulty, members of the Board of Trustees, and representatives of the student body and alumni. After a colorful pro- cession from the Field House to the Memorial • Chapel, the delegates witnessed .the imtallation of the President and the awarding of honorary degrees. Stone Leads . Leading the proce'ssion was the College Mar- , shall, William C. Stone, who carried the silver- headed cane signifying his positi0on. Next came a rolor guard made up of the AF.ROTC. Setting the pace and adding to . the pomp of the proces- , ·sion was the Schenectady Bag Pipe Band. Next in full academic attire, were the Deans of Union College and University, faculty of Union College, and Delegates from learned sodeties. Present . among the delegates wa~> former President Carter Davidson, now President of the Assodation of American Colleges. Next came representatives of the Fraternities . bearing their flags, the Inaugural Party, Mem- ·i> hers of the Alumni Council and members of the Student Council. The convocation was officially opened by Pro- fessor Stone. Rev. J. Dean Dykstra, Minister of ~the First Reformed Church in Schenectady, of- fered the invocation. Bruriet Welcomes Guests Founded at Union College 1877 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1965 -By Ken Bousquet THE INAUGURAL PROCESSION· makes its way toward Memorial Chapel before the installation of Harold Martin as President of Union College. PRICE 15 CENTS Committee Denies Memorial Chapel Use On Weekend Rod< 'N Roll Deemed Out of Place By Robert Fried Last week the Sophomore Class was denied per- mission to have rock and roll groups in Memorial Chapel. Dr. Norman B. Johnson, chairman of th~ .Com- mittee on Heligious Life, refused to ullow such gr()ups to entertain there. Dr. Johnson, stating that the policy of the Com- mittee wus \to have in the Chapel that which repr~sents the standards .of the College,\ said that rock and roll \is not that sort of thing.\ He main- tained that his action was on behalf of the Com- mittee and that he, as ch1lirman, was responsible for carrying out the committeels policies. The full Committee of eight faculty members will review the decision at a meeting next Monday night. Several years ago, Dr. Johnson said, the Com- mittee decided that all activities in the Chapel should be \in keeping with the standards of the College.\ He declined to define those standards. Dr. Johnson, who is also chairman of Union's Department of Classics, admitted that this was the first time a flat ban on any type of enter- tainment_ in the Chapel has ever been issued. He said his decision could be circumvented in two ways: by moving the performance of a rock and roll group to another locati-on on campus, or by substituting- another type of entertainment. Christopher Fried, professor of psychology and member of the Committee on Religous Life ·suggested that either a jazz or folk group would be suitable. He mentioned Count Basie, Gerry Mulligan, and the Chamber Brothers as three possibilities. Commenting on Dr. Johnson's decision, Dean Meade Brunet,· Chairman of the Board of Trus- tees, welcomed the guests lU!d summarized the -.important contributions Union College has made to the nation. Chairman Brunet cited the fact that Union, in the 19th Century, was a pace- setting. leader i~ education giving the country of Students 0. Edward Pollock said that he would body wa·s Jeffrey IL Ratner, President of the Stu- The climax of:, the inauguration came when \respect\ the· Committee's decision. He agreeci dent Body; from the alumni of Union College, Meade Brunet installed the President. In an im- that the students' viewpoint differed from that of Philip E. Duchscherer; from the faculty, C. Wil- pressive ceremony, the special presidential gown the Committee, but he maintained that certain liam Huntl~y, Secretary f1f the College.; fr(}m and College Seal of Minerva Were presented to groups might induce violence in the audience . . . over runety college presidents. Union University, Horu. Spencer B. Eddy, Chair- Dr. Martin. The Dean called rock and roll \primitive relying man of the Board of Governors; from sister insti- Need ·For Transition ;. on beat rather than 'music'.\ Following Ch4irman Brunet's remarks, greet- ings were given by various representative's of the college . commlJ!lity. Representing the studen-t tutions, John N. Wright, :Master of St. Salvator's In his inaugural address, President Martin \em- College, University o1' St. Andrews. Continued on Page 5 Col. 1 (Continued oii Page 4, Col. 1)' ======~~==~~~~==~============~:~~~~~~=== ' .• ''Educators and Service'' Local Group I'F~rst 100 Days' Churchill to Address , To Perform Wdl Be The~e Tuesdaj'ConvocatiOn Debated At Conference By Joe l.U!).nn ~ Panelists of the conference on \Educators and Public Service\ BeftJ Dr:·nma. agreed that th.e educator should str.ive to balance .his time betwee-n ., ....,. Of Homecoming research and coiJsulting .a'Q.d life in the purely academic world. The conference was held in Memorial Chapel last Satunlay, Many Union Alumni and their afternoon as part of the Inl).uguration Day Program. I families will be on the campus ,. President Harold C. Martin opened the proceedings by wei- t this weekend for the traditional coming the audience and introducing the participants. They were: Br Alan Ziegler Homecoming Weekend. Chief Simeon 0. Adebo, permanent Nigerian Ambassador to the Q h Saturday will mark the lOOth United N.ations; Dr. V~ncent M. Barnett, Jr., president o:f! Colgate The ueen and t e Rebels, an ·day of the presidency of Dr. Har- Univet'Sity; Dr. Eric F. Goldman, Rollins Professor of History at Italian drama, will ·be presented old C. Martin, President of Un- Princeton University; am~ moderating, Dr. John S. Badeau, Director by The Galaxy Players, in .coop- ion. The theme of the weekend, of the :Middle E~st Institute at Columbia University. eration w1th the Mountebanks, at B\'sic Pr()blem p· osed N ott Memoria[. Theatre, October appropriately enough, is \Tlle •· 13 th h 16 t 8 30 p M B th First 100 Days.\ President Mar- . Dr. Badeau pegan by s~ati.ng.the question to be debated: \Where roug a : · · 0 tin will meet with the Alumni 'ls the place of an educator 1 v, society?\ g-roups discussed plans _at a re- Chief Adebo began the discussion Qy speaking of the shortage . ~ept10n Wednes~ay, October 6, Council F-l'iday • ·afternoon and of educational facilities in his.· countr~'. He went on to: say that \the . m Nott Memorial. will speak to visiting, alumni on . \ .saturday morning at- 11 o'clock quality of public service is directly proportional to the quality of the , in Old Chapel. The title of his t\· educatioP.·al faciltties, which in turn is proportional to t}\e educa· The Galaxy Players is a local talk will be \The First 100 Days.\ ·tors.\ He felt f.hat educators an<! puh,lic servants should form a group dev()ted to presenting high- Other activities scheduled for \cross-fraternization\ of their t>ommon interests. ly artistic plays. The Queen and the alumni and their families are Barnett's View the Rebels was written by Ugo a dinner at Hale House on Fri- Dr. Barnett then posed the original questiop in a different way: Betti. who is considered to be one day, a \chalk talk\ by Coach 'does a conflict exist between the interests CYf educators and the in· of the best Italian playwriters creasing demands of public service? Dr. Barnett saw in this a of the 20th Ce11tury. The story Flood at 7 : 30 in the Old Chapel, deeper, more baSic .question: sh<Juld an educational institution choose deals with: revolutionaries who and a \Dutch Treat\ party in the th · · f • Rathskeller from 8:00 P.M. until e. pursuit o ~ure education or the production of more effective are looking for the wife of a de- midnight. .. contributions to public service? · posed kin!r and mistake a pros- . In answer to hi·s own question, Dr. Barnett decried the use of titute for her. Characters in the Open Classes extrer;nes in P?Sijl!g questions of this sor~. H~ felt that the answer play question themselves and Saturday morning regular to thts and sim+lar problems of educatiOn lies somewhere in ·the attempt to find out what is really classes will be opened to visiting middle ground. fie asked if colleges were :founded with only educa- necessary for their lives. alumni, and conducted tours of ' tion in mind. In his opii\iO!l, this was not 'so; the university has an the campus beginning at 10:00 indirect public functio:p. This includ€s a direct respoisibility to and 10:30 A.M. at Hale House provide information. Italian Plays Featured will be offered. . He went <Jn to say that eve_n from the viewpo-in:t of the edu- At noon on Saturday an \All ·cator, there was a feeling that increased co-ntact with the outside This is the first of two pro- Alumni Buffet\ will be held at By Ted Kreinik John Spencer Churchill, nephew of Sir Winston, will recall mem- ories of his uncle a.t a Convoca- tion in Memorial Chapel, Tues- c\ay at 11:30. Man of Talent ·Chw·chill in his own right is a noted ~uthor and painter and came Winston during World War II. Through this contact with his uncle, he developed not only a fine mastery of painting, but 1\lso a distinctly Churchill sense of humor. At one time Lady Churchill commissioned him to paint many of the distinguished murals of Chartwell, Sir Win- st<>n's home. wife, Jennie Jerome. His sister is the 'Wife of Lord Avon (Anth- ony Eden). He attended Harrow, a distinguished English public school, and Oxford. He has studied painting and sculpture throughout Europe. During World War II he served as a ma- jor in the British counter-intelli- gence and participated in the evacuation of Dunkirk. At pres- ~nt he resides in the South of France. Hi-s most famous -~rks are \The Churchill Canvas\ ~nd \Be- hind the Churchill Canvas\ pub- lished by Little, Brown & Co. Concert by Quartet The morning convocation will he followed by an evening con- cert given by the Brahms Quar- tet, at 8:30. FOI'med in 1962, the Quartet consists of Italian cham- ber musicians. Immediately after thmr first appearance, newspapers and crit- ics praised them as one of the most outstanding chamber mu- sic ensembles in Europe. They subsequently received invitations frorn numerous musical societies both in Europe and the United States. world produced a better education for the student and better fa<lili- ductions for ~he Galaxy Players Hale House, followed by the Un- ties. The institutions that 1•ecognize this, he concluded, will be the and the Mountebanks will like- :on-Rochester football game. Fol- ones thrut flouri-sh. ,, • wise put on two major plays. All lowing the game, a reception for · . ~ i IntE\llectuals Have New View will follow the theme of Italian President and Mrs. Martin will Acclaimed by press The press of Rome wrote \ ... ·four great performers fused into 1n exceptional ensemble .•. \ while in Milan they were lauded as \a group which is quickly gain- . ing reputation among the best.\ J?,r: Goldma11 ~hen made several comm~nt!;! about the \intellectual theatre. be given in Hale House. Various class In our s~c1ety .. He felt that the mtellectu.al class has been fraternity homecoming parties changing its vit:;lWS. Form~:rly' con-cerned with what ought to he Mr. Will MacDonald of WHMT~ will also begin following the done in this coll1Jtry, they ~re now concerned with what should and TV is the director for this Galaxy game. !f be put.into effec~. This. clas$ is actively trying to make changes and production. Profe-ssor Meriwe- The Campus Books.tore will has reJected the idea that ·scholars are an \impractical\ group. production. Professor Meriwether have _special hours on Saturday. Dr. Goldman then claimed that \managerial-minded ip.dividuals of the English Department is in It will be open in the morning run our nation.\ He suggested that if the intellectuals do not ta:ke · charge of the Mountebanks. Ad- until noon, and will reopen for r. art active part in our country, there will be no one to criticize or mission for all productions is a while at four in the aftel'Il.O()n. \ suggest new appro~ches. free to the community and two Amateurs ·Have Responsibility · dollars for all others. 'iMadre\ In EE22 Dr. Badeau then pos~ another question: precisely when does an ec;l·l!eator perform a public service? He explained that the respon•si-. The first Mountebank produc- At 7 P.M. and 9:30 P.M. this !1 ,h1hty f~r ,~he 'success of deJ?OCracy r~sts with the \bure!l-ucracy of tion will be The Mistress of the evening, THE TRlMSURE OJ<' amateu1 s, the non-professwnal public servants who discuss and Inn by Carlo Goedoni, December SIERRA MADRE will appe\1-r in criticize the government's policies. · 8 through 12. All male parts are EE 22 as part of the Union Col- But Dr. Badeau .stated that he did not condone all criticism_ open to Union students and try- lege Movie Series. The film ,~He noted that educatiOnal communities are debating many areas of outs will be conducted in Nott· stars Humphrey Bogart and Wal- government policy, particularly foreign affairs, but that a man is Memorial Theater on Monday ter Huston, and is the creation not an expert in everything m€rely because he is an educato1·. and Tuesday, October 18 and 19, of director John Huston. lt is from 8:30 to 10:00 P.M. Scripts the recipient of many academy (Continued on Page 5, Col. 5) 1 are on reserve at Shaff€'1' Library. awards. ' ., ' I JOHN RPENCER CHURCHILL Artist and Soldier ;Born in 1909, he is the son of Sir Winston's younger brother, and the grandson of Lord Ran- dolph Churchill and his American The ensemble consists of Pier Masi, Luigi Sagrati, Marcal Cer- vera and Madame Montserrat Cervera. Masi, the pianist, was born in 1936. He began his mu- sical training- at the Conserva- tory in Florence,, where he grad- uated with the highest honor. After many 'firsts' in musical competition, he joined the fac- ulty of the Musical Institute in Siena and has made extensive European concert appearances. (Continued on Page 4, Column 1) . I I : i

2 Publlshed Fridays during the 11chool year by the ·student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na- tional Advertising Representative: National Advertising ·service, Inc .. College Publishers Representative, UD Madluon Ave .. N. Y. C. Editorial Office. Old Gym, Union College. PubJic~~;tion Office, Sche- nectady Printing Company, &02 Broadway. Elntered In the ·Sche• nectady Post Office as Second Class l\lall Matter. Subscription He a copy: $B a year dellvered anywhere in the United States. S'ENIOR BOARD '. BARRY NEWMAN '67 ...................... 346-9950 ............................... ~ditor-in-Chief ·• JEFFREY SPECTOR '66 ............. 377·988( ........................ Business Manager I RECHARD SIFTON '66 ...................... 346-9'730 ........................ Managing Editor . MARK KASOWITZ '67 ......................................................... , ................... News Editor ROBERT STOLZBERG '67 ............................................................... Feature Editor ANDY COLR '67 ........................................................................................... SPorts Editor PAl:JL SHERWIN '67 ...................................................................... Literary Editor ARNOLD KATZ '66 .............................................................. Consulting Editor MATTHEW KA'rZ '67 ................................................................................... Page Editor Martiq Edits College Text By Robin Bell INQUIRY AND EXPRESSION. Edited .by Harold C. Martin and Richard M. Ohman. Holt, Rinehart and Winston. One way of asses~ing a university is to examine the pubLished output of its fac- ulty. This, obviously, is not the only, nor necessarily the best, means of evalua- tion•. However it is alway's illuminating to study this aspect of a college's activity. In examining the books by the faculty of Unien College, I was pleasantly sur- prised to fi·nd a distinct lack of the nar- row, stodgy pedantry which is regret- ably internationaHy typical of some scholars. ;H would - indeed it will - take moi'e than one book review to cover Friday, October 8, 1965 Letters To The Editor President's Thanks To the Editor: Because I have no other way of saying to aU I would like to hear how much I appreciate the 'spirit shown at Saturday's inauguration, I want to use your columns to express my thanks. letters .adding to the spoken comments a:t the scene. They all say in substance the same thing: Union College made a mark no one who attended the inauguration will soon forget, not even those for whom attendance at inaugurations is ·seasonal. The tJ·ihute of such an affair is always primarily to the 'College, not to tl!.e man who happens to be the occasion for it, and I am confident that no college ever bore its honors more bravely than ours dicl last Saturday. If we can summon such spirit for a big occasion, we !;l.t lea·st know it is there. Now we have the op- portunity to put it to work in the daily round to prove that what showed on Saturday is no more than the truth about ¥ what we really are. Jt'!\IOR BOARD Union's output in the :[}ast few year's. :Vlut·ty Kam 2 an '67 .... . . . .. .. . . .. ..... AsHistant x~ws Edijo:r . ,;·~paps it is a'ppropliate at this time, HENRY l•'l!:RUL:::>u.:-1 ·;,u .................................................................. Faculty Advisor' Behind the scenes, a faculty commit- tee chaired by Professor Petel'SOn had been working on plans since last sprin·g, and all the elemenrts came together with marvelous precision. As one guest put it, \We had instructions covering everything from the moment we packed our tooth- brushes Friday morning.\ At the critical moment, when automobiles and trains and planes began to arrive, sco!'es ef students the Delphics foremost - turned to as chauffeurs, guide's, hotel- and~motel monitors, and general facto- turns. Many of them finished work after midnig·ht only to show up early on Sat- urday morning to serve as ushers and messengers and to stay on until the last guest had left the afternoon reception. Mrs. Martin and I are proud to be here, and we are profoundly grateful to all who made evident by their demeanor and work that this college is a place where style ahd substance can make im- pressi-¥e harmony. i5~~:;;d ~~~~~:~:~z ·~:i .. ....... ~~~ -~ ~-.:.~.:::·.:::·:·.·.·.::·.:.::·:.::·::::·.::::::::·.A~~!~~~!;t~it~;~~~ ~~~~~~~\ 5$-,\Vhen Dr. Harold C. Martin has newly Robert Rosent-hal '67 ........................................................... Subscription l-!anageJt · .' /{' 1 b(:!en inaugurated as president of the Sincerely, Joseph :>hal'tPr '67 . !'\atlonal Advertising Manager ' ~· *' College, to e{Camine one of the two books Steven Arkoff '67 ............................ Circulation Manager · which he published- together with Pro- An academic parade is always a color• ful affair, but thi•s one had special ca.che.t: the AFROTC color guard up front, ele- gant and precise, and the men from fra- ternities putting as much energy as lines- men ih.to keeping flagstaffs erect while the flags whipped and curled in a hard wind. Inside, the performance was equal- ly handsome. For a half-hour before the procession arrived, Professor Wilson played B<ach and Handel and Mozart on our fine organ, -and the Brass Choir, un- der Profe'ssor Curtis, performed alone and thEm, with the organ, brought the procession into chapel. Fifty-five min- utes later, when the ceremonies were complete, the Schenectady Pipe Band strode in, marched front, and after a medley of bagpipe tunes skirled out down the main aisle with the procession folloWing: fifty-nine minutes from door to door. Then lunch at the Field House, .again with students .everywhere making sure things went right; .after that the :panel program in the Cbapel; and, finally, the reception, with Air Cadets as honor guard and apparently unwearied ushers still standing by. Harold C. Martin, President. William Lasnik '68 .................................................................... Associate News Editor f Oh f W l U . . Kenneth Bousquet '68 .................................................................. Photography Editor · essor · mann o · : es eyan mvers1ty. Thanks Again To the Editor: Failure's Success The failure of fraternal living to enhance the value of the college experience will cause the ultimate desertion of the fraternity system in favor of a basic social unit more adaptable to the rigors of modern higher education. To- day's members and alumni must accept the charge to alter the fraternity image and function or, as President Martin has said, \commit suicide.\ If the administration of Union undertakes to sustain fraternities, however, it too is obligated to assist in the renovation of a system designed for the gentleman scholars of the nineteenth century. The social unit must now be geared to the serious intensity of the· 1960's, and a marked indication that our gears are loose occurred in last week's awarding of the Brown Cup. The image of excellence in fraternal living which Un- ion upholds and to which all fraternities aspire should rep- resent an id~al blending of all acadel!lic and social elements involved in student life. Unfortunately, the only award this college offers for fraternity prominence - an award that is generally believed to designate the outstanding fra- ternity in the eyes of· the administration - disregards many essential criteria · for effective coexistence of the brotherhood with the mature objectives of the four years spent here. As a result, two chapters that seriously and thought- lessly violated social regulations last year became the win- ner and runner- up in the competition for the highest fra- ternity honor, the Brown Cup, despite their recent humili- ation and, for one, near expulsion from Union. If this is the type of performance that the college is compelled to honor in accordance with the Brown Cup pro- visions, then the award is doing more harm than good for the cause of fraternities here. If the cup is not dispensed . with, then it must be supplemented by a more meaningful recognition that would immediately, and justifiably, dis- qualify a chapter which has disgraced itself and is a dis- grace to the fraternity image that we woul-d. like to salvage. Fraternities may be contemplating suicide, but the col- lege need not escort them to the edge of the cliff. Big Business Education is now big business and in the near future it is expected to become the biggest of all. The United States imparts the incomprehensible sum of $39 billioA each year for the instruction of its 48.5 million young·. from the kindergarten through college. The military out- lay ~lone is more overwhelming at $49 billion. The small college is facing a period of crisis during which it will search for a place and a purpose among mul- tiversities and mass education. We cannot responsibly shrink from this challenge, and the President we installed Saturday is not prepared to do so. '\ .Jori5'' From behind the veil of old world pomp and the cere- Inquiry ;md Expres~ion is a \college reader\ a'nd thus W,imariiy a textb()ok. The· authoi-'s are qfute CI~ar about its function.. It is deshined ti:tfielp, studehts impr6ve their writing and \make a di• rect attack on the problems they meet in dealing with the complex and generally new matters they encounter in their freshman year.\ It is thus designed both to stim\)late and to answer questions. I would, however, suggest that this is by no mean·s a book for freshmen only; in- deed, the only criticism to be levelled is that there is perhaps too much and in too many fields, for the freshman to grasp. As such it might prove a difficult book to teach - indeed, how many men today have the comprehensive reading baek- ground necessary to teach such a course? - without fallin:g into the trap of being either too selel'tive or perhaps super- ficial. Despite the authots' assertion that \a coHection of readiTIIgs wHl not do justice to their hunger for ideas and for rich forms of expression,\ by most standards, any student who could talk intelligent- ly on one third of the included topics would he considered quite remarkable. Only three days have elapsed as I write, and already I have had dozens of The scope of the book is enormous. It reflects the authors' wide'spread interests \We need one another\ : D. H. Lawrence. and competence. Themes as varied as ~'A child went forth\ : Walt Whitman. Architecture and Joan of Arc, Evolution -The book has a valuable purpose. It and Plague, .are presented with an intro.- . . provides a challenge both to student and duction relating the various viewpoints : ;, , ·.to ·teacher. Such .an intense stimulus of expressed in the articles and excerpts. , . ideas is cbound to evoke a · 1•esponse. I The two sections below should serve as·· · can hardly believe that any student could an illustration and commendation: · ': · ever enc.ompass in a yea~ all that is put Is the Will Free? here before him. As implied in the intt·o- God's f-oreknowledge and man's duetion, this is a basis for a lifetime of free will : Boethius. thought and discussion. Perhaps m<J\st \Freedom and necessity\ : A. J. Ayer. important of all, the auth()rs have not \Absurd freedom\ : Albert Camus attempted to sum up, round off <Jl' close \The Grand Inquisitor\ : Fyodar down any topic, but have rather involved Dostoevski. the student in an atmosphere -of enquiry Figurative Language; No Man is an within which he can express his own Island. attitudes. * \Meditation\ : John Dorme. \We are one man\ : Thomas Merton. \The way of life\ : Henry Miller. All the books reviewed in this column are available in the College Bookstore. On behalf of the lnauguration Com'. mittee which- planned the ceremonies f-o1• President Martin oh October 2nd, I should like to use this means of publicly than-king all the faculty and students whose initiative and devoted ·service made that day in: honor of President Martin a worth,y tribute. Most of .all I should like to thank Mr. Carman and Janet Pearce of the Public Relations Office for their countless hours devoed to planning, to handling the invitations, and to the pro- gram; Professor Stone for his skillful as- sembling of the processicm; Profe$'sor Ullman for the chapel arrangements; Professor Board for arranging the aft- ernoon conference; and Professor Harlow for housing and transporting the dele- g.ates. The Delphic Society put in many hours on Friday night meeting the deJe- gates and rendering assistance where po1!sible, and in addition s'ei:ved -as ush- ,... ers on Saturday morning; and the Arnold Air Society alsa put in a full day's serv- ice on campus- and as the President's ., h<Jnor guard. The Student Council and the fraternity representatives also per- formed their duties with exemplary zeal. Finally, there should be a word of thanks to the college staff, who assisted in many ways for the past months, especially Mrs. Ritchie at the switchboard and Bill Mathias and his merry men. All in all, the plann!ing and work of the inauguration began last spring and continued throughout the summer at ah evermounting pace, and ultimately in- V()lved hundreds of people, aU of whom ' performed their roles without a hitch. I think we can all be proud of our col- lege community, and I think we all hope, too, that PresMent Martin will be with us for a long time to come. ! • Sincerely, Sven R. Petersoil Chairman, Inaugural Committee 135 ERIE BOULEVARD EAST·ERN AVEa PIZZERIA Boulevard Bowl 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PRIEMISES •· Down to Louis', let us go,- Let the lager freely Yvw. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NIC-H'OLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 860 EASTERN AVE. WE DELIVEIJ Phone 393-0870 for the Finest PIZZA •. 1.. I 0% off for Union Students! HlLDRETH.- TRAVEL CENT.ER 1632 UNION· StREEt Schenectady, N.-Y. 12309 346 .. 4238 .. TRAVEL- CUSTOM DEIGNED WITH YOU IN ·MIND'::. AIR il SEA • RAIL . e CHARTER BUS $1 -BONUS COUPON.~·-$~·· •1 KENTUCKY FRIED CHICKEN mony of another age, the uncertain and unfriendly shape of a different future was evident to every delegate who listened to President Martin. He spoke of the transfor- · : LA~(;:;EST SELECTION OF CAMERAS IN THE: CAPITOL DISTRICT mation we face, and accepted challenge in all its awesome ; .L .. , ... :~ ·• ·'· GOOD TOWARD PURCHASE OF ONE BARREL OF KENTUCKY·--· ,~ academic and financial aspects .. The Union College of today is far more similar to the Union of 1945 than it will be to the Union of 1985. The change will not come easily, but if the spirit conveyed at this new beginning in our history is installed in all who are connected with college, it will be effected with success. Da~k Room Supplies - Jewelry - Gifts -- Hi Fi Equipment FRIED CHICKEN - REGULARLY at $4.95 Open 11 A.M. to 9 P.M.-· · Sat. 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. .I : Good Until Nov. 15 - For Union College Students Only! ,:j PHONE 393-3631 1957 FOSTER AVENUE . ·' : 111 PA~KWOOD BOULEVARD . ; \'t#~######### -+ ~ ~ - - - - - - - - Il' '. De 'I quate I endm lorsh: ing .. count neith1 whicl it ma vious may itself term1 healt tion. ' that, forni: fanta lose 1 the s1 vate; ,,_ secon mand too n schol: <)f tr: I long ... ] world comru It tS ( what, to as \libel T every form~ doom need enou~ stanc' her, € is em not t' To tr find: .,~ ·how, tnrn Ebera ing i1 will 1 '\ stanc mote ,,., men: ' For a of \g prof-e ...; ,and t retur -to as liberE ne\V J '~ s ing c natur imagi diver but i1 no lo force: > profe I dictec not t desig \ much sougl after impm differ cat: OJ siona and g will : so ta of 011 part the il pract anotl nearl Ta· ment .then, time Youn they obste they form gest moda cern these ·\'1 the s l ' one iJ lous find stay with( speci pertr t·l into .humE penn collej study butt ophy is ex r not c that dents dialo~ wort] hour life c semb 1

friday, . October 8, J965 ·~ · ~----------~~-----------------------------------------, . . · . .. M()vle Review: '' . Sierra Madre'' By Paul Sherwin ' \The T1•easure of Sierra Madre\ is John Huston's adapta- tion of B. Traven 's novel of the same title. Released in 1948, it is one of the best things that HoUywood has done since it has learned to talk. And yet it is doubtft!l that many people can fully realize, right away, what a tremendous ac hievement, or plexus of achievement, it is. You will seldom see a good artist more reticent, less insistent on hi's artistry ; Houston merely teHs his .story so plainly that the viewer is liable to become abso1•bed in just th at. Folk Art This story and Huston's whole handling · Of it are about as close to folk art as a highly conscious artist can get. It i 's a tale about three Americans in the mid-1920's on the bum in Tampico. Running into luck in .a lottery, they desert Tampico for the depths of Mexico's mountains in sea rc h of gold. Although OM Howard (W a lter Huston)., a man who has seen wha t this quest can do to men, warns the greenhorns of the dangers that lay ahead, they don't heed him - they must discover this t ruth for themselves, must make a Cassandra of the o ld man. Dobbs (Humphrey Bogart), a morally chaotic child of perhaps forty, breaks down early with bluster, fear and · suspicion of his part- ner's. Curtin (T im Holt), a r elatively stable youth, nearly cracks under the pressure as well but, in time, comes of age. How- ever the meat of the story is its simple · revelation of three types of humanity, altering in the presence of the sinister catalyst - gold. Matter The story is told with intelligence, humor and , suspense. It i s by turns exceedingly funny and utte rly terrifying. It is a'S rich in symbolic ove1tones as it is in character and d · rama; for the treasure of the mountain is a fair image of most human Bogart and friends on their quest for gold in John Huston's \Treasure of Si('rra Madre.\ goals· and th e men who seek it are fair representatives of man . Nomi~ally an adventure sto ry, \Th e Treasure of .Sie1:r~_Ma~re\ is really an exploration of character as. revealed 1~ VlVH1 acti?l!• and . charact e r an d actions yield revelatiollls of then· own: pohtl- cal , moral, metaphysical and above all, poetic. Manner Ther e is not a shot-for-'shot's-sake in the picture or one too-prepar e d lookin g or dwelt on too lon g. The camera is always wher e it ou g ht to b e , never impose s on or exp loits or over- dramatizes its subject, never for an instant shoves beauty. or special meaning at you. Thi'S is one of the most visually ahve an d beautiful movies ever made; there is a wonderful flow of fresh air , light, vigor, and liberty through every ~J:o~, a:r;d a fine athlete's litheness and absolute control and fiextbthty m every succession and ser ie s of shots. Bogey For all \camp\ f.ans this movie ha s an extra - added attrac- tion: Humphrey Bogart. Bogart does a wonde1-ful job with his role (and on its own merits it is quite a role), miles ahead ~f the ver~' good work he has done b ~fo~·e . The only ~rouble IS that one cannot quite forget that th1s 1 s Bogart puttmg on an unbelievably good act. In a ll · but a f e w movies one would thank God for this one sma ll favor. ln thi's on e it sta nds out, h arm- fully t<> s om e ex t e nt, for eve rything else in the film is entirely selfless~ . \Treas ure of Si e rra Madre\ is one of the few great . cme- matic productions of Hollywood during the '40's. Thi~ s~rd?ni­ cally told, reaHs ti~ f able would have a lot to offer lf It _ Just boasted the combined talents of Huston an d Bogart- but there is so much more. It will appear in EE 22 at seven o'clock and a t 9:30 this evening. :~ ! I Frid~y& o~; il~ 8 s~ ~~ ~-;-:.Treas ur e of Siel'l'a Madre\; EE22 Saturday, Octob er 9, 1965 - . .. 1:30 p .m . - }i'ootball; Union V s. Roch este r; Al exa nd e r Field . 12: 30 p.m. - Soccer; Union Vs Syr. a cilse; Daley Fteld 12:30 p;m. - Freshman Soccer; Umon V s . Bard Sunday, Octnb e r 10, 1965:- . 7:30 p.m. - - Commumty Vesper Servtce; Memor i a l Chapel Monday, Octobt>r 11 , 1965 - 4: 00 p.m.-Graduate Study M ee tin g; D ea n Loekwood; m Nott M emor ial ~ r .. ~~.\r.~ _' r . ... ~.'~ : ' Tuesd~;,o d'~fob e l~ H~si~6o5untry; Union V s. Oneonta. . ;~ 11:30 a.m. - Con vocati 'O n; John Sp e nc er C hurchtll; M emoria l Chapel f ' • . I ~ 7:00 p.m. - Int erfraternity Cou n ci l meet in g; Ha l e Hous e 8:30 p . m . - Convocation; Union Colle ge ; S c henectady Mu se um; Concert Series: Bra hm s Quartet; Memorial Chapel 7:15 p.m. - Philomath ea n Debate Socie ty ~e et in g ; P hi Beta Kappa Room; Schaff e r L 1br ary W e dn esda y, Octob l\f 13, 19~ 5- . . 3:00 p.m. -So ccer; Umon V s . M1ddle bu ry; Daley Fteld 4:30 p.m. - Outing Club M eet in g ; Hale Hous e , 8:30 p.m. - Galaxy P l ayers; \Th e Queen and the Rebels ; N ott M e morial @ Thursday, October ~6, 1965 - . ?.:~ < [\ 8:30 p.m . ~ Ga l axy ~ l ayer!'l; Nott M e mor1al ~ . M Monda y, October 18, 196 o - . , , I f ~ :@ 8:3 0 p .m. - M o unt e bank s Tryouts for \Mt s tress of the Inn ~:I~~~: ~~t?. I t~m:&r~~:I~:;~~:N~r&~~~~f.~~K{;i:~~~~ l~~bJ.: ; :~~ l~ $1:~ ~;. ~~ ~ ;~ ~ ~=~~:~~:~~~~~~:~t:~~~I~:lt:~~:~~~?i:~~ : ~ : ~~~~t~l:~i~~~I::~~~:~1$l&~$~:~~~~~:;~~~~f:t;{$~:~~:~~~~1~!~ : :~ ~-: · . 3 . Political Scene: Powers Shift-Over Kashmir Outward Bound: Preparing for Adversity By Bob Dickman and Skip Eames Two wrecked tanks litter the Pakisbni countryside after a fierce battle. \To strive, to serve, and not to yield.\ More than 2000 young men in the United States will recognize tl1is motto as the purpose and philos- ophy of the Outward Bound Scheols, Inc. Thanks to the generosity of Mr. DeWitt Wallace, president of Reader's Digest Maga,zine , we attended the fourteenth session of the Colorado Outward Bound School. COBS, founded in 1962, is the oldest America n counterpart of the original school formed at Aberdovey , Wales, in 1951. -- - ~===========~ The idea <>f an Outw ard Bound SCihool - developed from wartime needs. German tain. We reached the top and then came submarines were sinking many British down again for lunch. merchant ship'S. Lawrenee Holt, of the Our only s erious accident of the course Blue Funnel Shipping Line, noted that occmTed th at morning whe n one of our while older, experienced seamen survived p a trol of twelve punctured his leg with his ice ax e. He mis sed the a f te rnQo n after a bandoning ship, the healthy yotm:g- er men succumbed. Apparently the young activity as a result, but he rej oined the seamen pre f erred to give up and die program on the follo wing day. Mountain Climb rather than fight the el em e:n.ts until res- After .Junch we were s e nt to climb Cry- cue arrived. Anti-defeatism stal Peak . It is only 1 2 , 632 feet but our Holt met with Kurt Hahn, founder of approach led us to a 1 4,000 foot ascent on \rotten rock.\ It wa'S our first ex- the Gordonstown School in Scotland. perience climbing on this shale-like rna- They developed a course to prepare men t erial, and until we mastered the tech- to fight against needless defe atism, either nique we often took ju st a few steps at mental or physical. At Aberdovey, W.a.l es, a time, only to slide b ack b e low to our a rocky, windswept por t , the training b e- starting - point. W e continued to cli mb came known as th e Outward Bound until 5:00 p.m. Ba c k at camp again we School. Holt emphasized that the men at bathed a nd cooked supper. Tha t \bath\ OBS were not train,ed so much for the was rea lly a fall into a stream, jumping sea as through the sea. d th · th The course was successful; OBS grad- out to soap up . an en repeatmg e procedure to rinse off. There was only uates endured the adversity at sea much Qne diffi · culty: the · stream was snowfed, longer than those without training . Wh e n and had warmed to 3 4 d egrees by the the war was ov er , it became appal·ent time it r ea ched t he camp:sit e . After din- that the school served peace-time n eed'S n er w e spent two how · s on survival train .. as well. ing, and then it was back to the tents to The conditioning of young men through forget about mountains until the next supervised ex posure to difficult situations morning. proved valuab l e in meeting the obstacles Outward Bound was diff ere nt from an of later lif e . Through the support of ext ravfrl gan t Boy Scout Gamp in one im- e ducator ~, industrialists and businessmen, portant way:. th e fe eling was that it is 18 Outward Bound School's are now op- b e tter to go over an obstacle than around erating in Africa, Europe, Aust1•alia a nd the United States. Grueling Tests The Colorado School that we attended uses the Rocky Moontains as a testing gro und for its s tud e nt s . For the two o f us, the . story b egan in January, 1965, wh e n Union was grante d two scholar· s hip s to the program by Mr. Wall ace . By June, we had received from COBS t he equipment lists and suggestions for con- di tio nin g. These contained such encour - ag in g notes as , \W e sug ges t woo l undel'- w ea r, which retains its warmt h even w h e n wet,\ apd \runnin g a ~ l e every day for a month p · rior to your co urs e will b e h e lpful durin g otil ' ea rly conditioning programs.\ Our fears were justified. On August 9 we met with about 100 oth er ~t udent s , 1 · anging in age from 16 to 21 . W e l ef t D e nver by bus. Two hun - d re d miles l ater we w e r e in Marble, Coli> - rado, an ancient mining m etr opolis with a r e'S ident population of six. W e w e r. e introduced to th e cour se wi t h a two-mil e walk int o camp . That night; w e regis • tered and pl e dged not to drink or smoke. for the next 26 days. The cou r se it se l f includ e d rope work. rock and sno w climbin g , roped mountain~ e e r in g , rape llin g, hik ing , mountain r e scu e training, fire - fighting, brid ge- build . in g- an d s urvival tr aining . A Typiclll Day A description of a typi-cal day at the schoo l will illu strate the ro1,1tin e . At th e b egi nning of our eig hth d ay w e wer e at the 16,000 -f oot l eve l of B ea r Basin , tw() mil es so uth of Cry sta l Colorad o and s l ig htl y ov e r a mil e north of 13,000 - fQot Tr eas ury Mountain . W e awoke a t 6 :0() a .m. an d by 9:00 we had climbed three- fourth's of a mi l e 'SOuth to t h e sma ll pond whe1· e w e were to m eet f or luneh. At 12,000 feet w e w e re w e ll abo v e the tim- b e r lin e . We spe nt an hour learning th e r udiment s of rop e d dim-bing-. At 10:30 w e brok e up int o group s of thr ee for the climb up T reas ury Moun - A student of the Outward Bound Schoo l sca l es a mountain preparation for future t('sts. it. Thi s proves that the ob s ta c l e is no t illls urm o un t a bl e , an import ant t e n et of the Outward Bound philosophy. Outward Bound teaches a cooper at iv e sp irit that is bas ed on se l f-relianc e : a l- tho u g h teamwork is stress e d, i t i s a n es - · se ntially an ind ividual affair . Som e stu - d e nt s d o b e tter at skills th a n othe r s; but eac h s tud e nt p e rform s to the b es t of hi s ability. Russion-Ame ri can Entente Is Possible By Robert Stolzbe rg- Slightly ovel' a month ago, fig-hting· .broke out on the c ease-fil· e line between India and Pa ki stan in Ja mm u and Kash- mir Prov i nce. The fighti ng- still sporadi- caHy continues, but it 'h as no ' t had mu~ h effect on the position of t he border. It has, howeve r, dr astically changed the · configur at ion . of world . polit ic s . Thi ' s change has taken seve ral f or ms. The U n i t e d States in many ways . gained the most. Ch i n a and Ind ia both suffered significa nt losses. This i s the firs t time that the lJnited States an d the Soviet Union w ere able to agree on the use of, and payment for, United Nations' peace- keeping activiti~s . This allo wed the U.N. to insist on u cease-fire. It has not really taken effect yet, but this is n ot sur p ris- .ing as m o st 0 f its observers are not in position. But one mus t r emember that the cease-fi · re i:n the I sme li •Egyption dis- pute took over 4 mo nth s t o become e f - fective. At present, each side is attack- in g· the o ther in order to gain t hat Iast bi t of gro un • d bef ore the U .N . c a n make · itself an effective agent. · · Fear for Balance The consequences of this are quite sig- nificant to many of the unaligned na - tions. They have been acc ustomed to playing o ne superpow e r off against the other, gaini n g b oth in secu rity a:nd . ai d in the pr oces s _ These na ti ons fear th at t hi s may stop if the U . S . and U.S.S.R . com€ any close1· . It is for th i s reason tha t m any do not d isapprove t he r ecent ac- tions of th e Chinese Peop le's Republi c . Ch i na 's grmving independence gives promise of b ecoming just the ne w coun- t.erweig ht to this unofficial Russi an- American en tente that they need. Thes e naUons which see the nee d for a bale. ance generaUy see China as ha vi ng shown great fi ne sse in d ealing w i th India dur- ing the Kashrnir dispu te. Th ey ac cep t the Chinese version tha t India did p-u ll ou t of its military posts on the Chin a - Indi a border . Consequent l y, China was able to a id Pakistan , gain friendship of the Mos l em nations, and hum iliate I ndia . all witho ut drawi ng the Wes tern powers i nto a sh ow of fol'Ce. China Embarrassed The contrary opinion is held in most of the West e rn governments and many of the less mili tant neutra l s. This is th at Chin a's bluff was c a ll ed a nd she b acked down. If this were the case, she has lef t h erself open to th e s ame c har ges of ad~ venturism and capitula t ism that she charged Mo scow · with dur in g the Cuban mi s sile confrontation. In ad d ition to it s dip lomat ic r a mificati ons, it may con vince-' Ho Chi Minh th.at Peking is not willing t o fight a major war wi th the United States. The most probabl e effect of this, , especially when coupled w ith recent Sai- gon victo ri es, will be to make him · more Iikel~ to com e to the barg · aining table. Ch m a has b ee n further hurt by th e im- pre·ss.io n th at h er own in te rests were the only ones she had in mind. One Was h - ingt on sp ec i al ist said: \Pe king sho wed the underdeveloped count r ies that it had only a cy ni ca l and s e lfish interes t in h elping Pakistan and hurt i ng India.\ The general impr e ssion is that Chin a's world stature has b e en diminrshed by the e v ent s of the past month. India, a l so, ha s s uff ere d in world stand - ing. B as icall y , this stems from the inef- fectiveness of her pr evious foreign poli cy . One Indian member of Parliament said •• J t is s ta rtling to d iscover t hat Mr. N ehr~ seems to have built hi ' s fo reign policy on th e alleged frien dship of thr ee dict ators - Sukarno, '.rito, and Nasser . I n ou r crisis, M r. Su · karno has l oosed mobs on our embassy . Th e other two hav e sent p o li te notes urgi ng restra · int.\ Another con tr ibutin g faetor to the decline of In - dian prestige is the f a ct that she has not buil t a n atomic bomb. It i s beli eved t h at Indi ·a co uld build on e w it hin a y ea r if n e cessary, bu t sh e h as been avoiding do - in g this . Shadowy Future The f utur e i~ st ill unclear . In t he centml issu e , that of a pl e bescite in Kashm i r, . Pakista n a?d I n d_ia still appear unr ~conc 1l a bly and d iametr ically opp osed. Pakt ~ta n h a · s alr ea dy broken di plom atic r e la twns with. M a laysi a due to tha t na - tion's support for Ind i a . Sh e h a s an - nounce d that unl ess the United Na t i'Ons works o ut a fin a l sett l ement by January J, she will withdraw f rom th e world b~dy. Furth e rmore, sh e has s ai d that she w tll r e-eva lu ate her mem b e r s hip i n SEATO a nd CENTO, both Western-oli - en~ e d d e fen·se p acts , in the light of th ei r fa1 .lur ~ to render h er any a , ssistanc e . To comphc a t e matt e r s fur t her, India h as an- n omllc ~ d . to the U. N. 1; hat it h as been th e vi ct im o.f aggressio n and c annot th e r efore , b e e xpec t ed t o pay the ex~ pens es of the Kashmir peace-k eepi n g forc e . T hJs is ironi c as Indi a h as always b een w_xH~ n g t o her asse'Ss m e n t of p.ast SUCh miSSIOnS .. Th e o ni y hop ef ul a r e a of the pictur e is that all th~ v e to-hold i n g pow ers in t he U. ~· a r e }n f a vor o f en din g t h e s tr ife, 1 ea vm g C hina as the only out s id e r0'ad - bl oc k t o settle m e nt . B o th the United ~t ates and t~e Sovie t U nion are pur s u- !ng p a ralle l, I f s~para te , po l ~ci e s of try- m g to a ll 0'w Indt a and Pa kt s · tan to re- !urn t o . th e ir prim a r y t~sk o f in iprov- m g the1 r sta nd · a rds of livi n g . I f th e y are successf l;ll , i t m~y mean a p er ma ne n t a n~ ,rad x · cal r ea li g n me n t of the world's pohtxcal st ru ct ur e.

'4 House Presidents Assess Bro\\Vn Cup Last week Chi Psi won the Brown Cup Competition fot• the second consecutive year. The Concordiensis asked the opinion's of several fraternity presidents toward the competition. ·Martin Hon·ored· sc ... ... Continued from Page 1 Dean Pollock further stated President Harold C. Martin that while the Dean of Stud_ents ·will receive an honorary degree might be expected to oversee the from Hartwick College, Oneonta, . student activities, the many duties ::-Jew York at its Founders' Day, o£ his office made it \impossible\ October 12. President Martin is fot' him topersonaUy supervise a mern:her of Hartwick's Board of every activity. He said that the Tl·ustees, administration of the college rec- ognized thil:l, and had set up vari- Friday, October 8, 1965 Spring ·Fe-te Nets .Seniors ·Large Profit The Executive Council of the ~~ass of 1966 he);d its initial meet- ·I:g of the year Qn October 4. Hunter Lewis of Chi Psi considered it difficult to determine what really is the \best\ fraternity. He said it was up to the individual to decide for himself. Lewis stated tha:t the criteria used in determin- ing the winner of the Cup were not inclusive enough to determine the best fraternity. He would lower a fra-ternity's standing- in the competition for certain negative attributes, such as a poor social standing. He will be presented with h:is ous regulatory committee·s to aid only honora1·y degree, a Doctor- the Dean. ate of Law, by Grace Allsop, Pro- fessor of Romance languages. Professor Allsop was chairmah He said he believed that stu- of this department when Presi- dent participation on such com- dent Martin received his U'flder- mittees was both possible and graduate degree in French in· desh·able. However, he felt that 1937. The Founders' Day cele- the initiative for student partici- bration will be held in the Hart- pation must come from the stud- wick Field House. After receiv- · ents. Senior Class President, Jack • :Oe!fert, began the meeting with Lewis felt, however, that the Cup is held in high .esteem on campus and that it is an honor to win the award. Of the three cri- teria used in judging· the houses, he felt that scholarship wa·s the most imp01·tant. 1\.asper's View Sigma Chi President Dave Kasper said .tha•t while it is impossi- ble to determine which is the \best\ fraternity, it is definitely feasi- ble to measure a fraternity's ability in a cextain .field. The standards used, he said, are not perfect, but they are as close to ideal as possible. Kasper felt that the Cup was losing prestige on campus, partly because it has been held by only two or three houses in the past few years. He ·gtated that activities should be, in his opinion, the most important conside1·ation in a\varding the Cup. ing his degree, the President will speak at a luncheon; his topic is The members of the C0mmittee \Down the Drain or Up the ·on Religious Life are: Dr. John- Lightning Rod.\ .. so:1, Prof. Fried, Prof. Bruce Clements, Prof. Raymond Eisen- Founders' Day, not conneded ~tadt, Pro~ .. A. Van Vranken Des with Columbus Day, is the cele- Forges, Prof. Thomas Hoffman, S. C. PRESIDENT, JEFFREY RATNER 1 I~eport on last year's Spring Weekend, which headlined Dave Urubeck, Little Richard and ·the 3hirelles. The weekend was a 1 n:que venture, with its $8,000 budget, amd a $7.50 weekend cou- Dle ticket. Still the Cla.ss was :tble to report a profit of over $600, one•third ()f which was claimed by the Student Tax CoJ.TI- mittee. Seifert reported, \Considering the size of the budget, the Week- end may be termed a huge suc- Mark Levine, president of Phi Sigma Delta, also felt that it was impossible to determine which fraternity is \best.\ He said that each house has its own particular qualities. It is possible, he said, to determine which fraternity excels in a particular area. This is the pm•pose of awarding the Cup. brat·ion of .the origin of Hartwick Prof. Rgbert Leonard, and Direc- the entire field of music because Colle·ge as a mission for Indians tor of Development Stephen Hoi- s?me groups have a poor reputa- in 1763. Under the direction of, brook. Members are appointed tJon. Furthermore, this could Christopher Hartwick, the mis- by the President of the College. lead to the future censorship of ~ess. We hope that the Tax . ·' Committee is convinced th3Jt a sion evolved into a boys' school. entertainment other than rock n' La:ter, it became the theological roll. We would support the es- Vv eekend incorp<>rating a large budget and first rate talent is :easible for Uni<>n Colleg€.\ Criteria \Best'' Levine thought the criteria used were adequate, and that it would probably be impossible to use any others. This is because other qualities, such as a fraternity's attitude, are intangible and thus almost impo'ssible to measure. He suggested one possible im- provements: chang-ing the weight which each criterion holds in de- termining the winner. He felt that scholarship should be the most important criterion. In his opinion, the Cup is held in high esteem on campus. seminary. In 1928, the college, Dr. Johnson's action brought tablishment of a student-faculty moved to Oneonta from Hart- strong- criticism from Jack Sei- · Jommittee~·to. regulate the use of wick, New York, and became a. fert, President of the Senior Class :he Chapel.\ liberal arts school. at the Student Council meeting Events Planned Plans for the ·senior Weekend in June were als() discussed. There is the possibility of a \Senior ~ail,\ a boat trip on Lake George, :.vhich would' replace the tradi- tional Senior Prom. Tuesday night. Other acti0ns at the meeting were: the official election of Jeffrey Ratner as S. C. President, Nith John Hausman elected sec- :etary; last year's Spring Week- end Report showed a $40() profit for the Class of 1966; tabling the notion to Sanction the Dutch :::lassie Bowling Team as a stud- 3nt activity; .tabling the question of funds for the Delphic .Society's ::mnual dinner. GE Aids \We feel,\ Seifert said, \that no on~ person should have the right to veto talent which per- forms· in the only auditorium Randy Kuhl, president of Delta Upsilon and president of the I.F.C., stated that while it is impossible to measure which fraternity is \best the fraternity that achieves top ratings in all three areas of competition would certainly be considered ()ne of the better houses on campus. He would add a measurement of the b~otherhood in .the house to the list of the criteria, if such a measurement co.uld be obtained. Scholarship, he said, should be the most important criterion. . available. This is censorship!' F a.culty. Seifert maintained that there are no other faeilities available Kuhl felt that the Cup was held in very high esteem. In fact, he said that the competition for the award should be given more publicity, because winning the Cup is, in his o:pinio.n, a real achieve- ment and honor. He felt that other members of the I.F.C. \vould agree with this opinion. Convocations . • • Coutiuued from Page 1 sche Grammophon Gesellschaft.\ This year the Evening Division and Graduate Studies Divisions of Union have several lecturers and professors fxom the General Electric Company. . This program with G.E., which Wll,S started seve~al years ago, has expanded to mclude 14 pro- fessors. These men from G.E. are teaching Physics, Economics, Statistics, Math and Mechanical Engineering_ William Wiefenbach, dean of Sagrati is a graduate of the The three :pieces to be played. the Evening Division and Gradu- Academy of Saint Cecilia m Rome are Aaron Copland's \Quartet for ate Studies, feels that Union is und is one of the most sought- p;ano and Strings,\ Brahms' \Pi- fortunate to have these men · after violinists in Europe today. ano Quaxtet in C Minor,\ and MoQ- from G.E. In his estimation. He has been a member of the zart's \Piano Concerto in E Flat they are \top rate\ and are h · Q t M1'nor.\ among the best professors here. Roman Phil armomc uar e'!;, the Carmenelli Quartet, and the Taking part in this program Boccherini Quintet. The Cer- are: David Baker, Joseph Bulmel', vera's, born in Cuba, have ap- CORRECTION Harold Deltry, Dr. Charles Duke, peared as soloi·sts throughout Dr. Joel Fleck, Gerald Ha.hn, Eric Europe and have been members Hansen, Lowell Kindinger, . Don- of the Carmenelli Quartet. Mar- Allan Starr's name was omit- ald Mac Millan, Dr. Richard Ma- ca! Cervera records for the \Con- ted from last week's list of Nott thews, Robert Rustay, Dr. Sam- cert Hall Society\ and the \Deut- Scholars. We regret the error. uel Shapiro, Dr. Willard Skol-. nik, and Eugene Wach'Spress. FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 • FOUNTAIN SERVICE BASSWEJUNS For Men All Sizes JR. BOOTERY 147 Jay St. FR 4-7717 DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages ~ ~ 118- 120 JAY STREET l •••• 4444444&4+•••···············+:444•&4 16 46444• WELCOME AGAIN 2 or more SHIRTS • • • • • Deansgate's sport coat on campus, since the Field House will be in use ·during Fall Week-. end and th€ gym is too small to accommodate a full audience. In addition, there are no known folk groups available for that night ;qnd jazz groups are financially 11nf easible. \We are not arguing for rock and roll,\ Seifer.t said. \Never- theless, we object to condemning SUPERIOR BARBERSHOP 601 NOTT ST. (Across from Nott Gate) Specializing in flat Top & Ivy Leagqe Haircuts PANTS •• 49c SUITS •• 98c of hand woven Harris tweed Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5193 Just Around the Corner from Mohawk National Banlc Lucky indeed is the man who can :find such a superbly tailored sport coat • • • with Deangate's natural shoulder ease • • . heather toned colorings in solids and stripes. 55.00 It was decided that the next 'lleeting of the Council would be held within a month to enterl;ain noiuinations for the Class Day )rators. Following this, there will be a m,eeting- of all Seniors fo11 the final elections. . .... : ·~ LUIGI'S ·\' ·- RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN 'S..:\; Italian· American Food 1125 BARRETTT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-1J7 44 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar REDWOOD DRIVE IN 268.~ HAMBURG STREET - 5 Min from College ___,. HOTDOGS with Famous Sauce CHARCOAL HAMBURGEIJS and CHEESEBURGERS 1 0 Oz. Charcoal Broi:led Steak J)inller-1.35 OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 11 ;00 A,M. - l 2:30 P.M. Sun. - Thurs. Till 2:00 A.M. Tues: For three Generations • Thqse Who Know Have been rC!r;ommending HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTEI Maurice B. GraPbart & Sons BUY TWO [l] MIKE'S: ~v-~~~~~v-\~~~.~~-- . FREE GOOD AT ANY MIKE'S GIANT SUBMARINE STORE ! :. ' J Fri 1 ph a ch; as cl'i thl ve \'0 It en nu nf kn st~ no ,, de· to the Th \T :.t. to fir st~ ·' the is stE col ve: ne; tio the , in ''be tr~ in< de: or' 'I '\ E .. g ... ] a fl ,, at m fh m ar Sl \y is JE tl .,! \ • .. r I I I I I I ~~ I I' lc ~:' ~

8, 1965 t • unci! of the initial meet- 4. sident, Jack • with Spring Dave and the was a its $8,000 cou- Cla.ss was Qf over which was nt Tax Coz.n- \Considering the Week- a huge sue- the Tax thaJt a a large talent is Weekend There ' . ..-; a \Senior , George, the tradi- the next would be to entertain Class Day this, there all Seniors Bar N .M. Tues: NELRY , .. Friday, October 8, !965 Martin. • • (Continued from Page 1) I phasized the role of Union as 1 a small college in a rapidly changing society. Union, as well as aH small colleges, fa.ces a cl'iticai deci·sio:h. j Dr. Mart-in said that in view of the competition of the big uni- versity, the smaH school must voiunt:uily make a transition or i-t wlll lose prestige and influ- ence. This transition might well mark the end to the traditions of the liberal arts school as we know them. However, Dr. Martin state.d, \But Hbera·l learning need not die, not if those who believe NAACP Conf. Will Convene At Union Ed. Con/. Continued from Page 1 When an educator is in the pub- New York State's National As- lie service, he said, he should act .sociation for the Advancement of on!~ within th~ rea~m of his ex- 9olored Pt;ople will hold part of i per1enc~, espe~1ally m tht; mat~er 1ts upcommg conferen·ce at Un- of foreJgn pohcy. There IS a sJg. ion college. mfiCant difference, :he felt, he- Three hundred fifty delegates ~ween makers of our fo~e.ign po!- . i from 60 local branches through- 1cy a~d teache~s of political sci- out the state will attend a mass ence and gove1nment. meeting in Memorial Chapel on Two Rules Defined ~ Friday, October 15, at 8:00 P.M. Dr. Badeau then defined the William BoJth, president of the two ro]es of the educator: to edu- New York N.A.A.C.P., will pre- t d d f · 1· side over the meeting. Dr. John ca e an pro uce orelgn po Icy Nixon, president of the Alabama makers, not to make foreign pol- ' State Conference of the Organiza- icy himself; and to uncover new tion, and George H. Fowler, dimensions of knowledge. 5 cisms of that government. Dr. Goldman, who is also a Special Consultant to President Johnson, then suggested that there may exist a strong trend among many educators toward research and consulting positions with private f.irms and government. This may be taking place, he said, because the teaching profession is one with a definite lack of prestige. Dr. Barnett disagreed and then began to cite several examples ·n an attempt to demonstrate that his viewpoint was the correct one. Unfortunately, Dr. Goldman was forced to leave the conference table, and this exchange was ter- minated. Must Remain Receptive chairman of the New York State Chief Adebo expressed some- Commission on Human Rights, what different feelings. In his. will spea:k. I opinion, an educator, as a citizen, In a concluding statement, I , has a right to express his opin- d d ,, neeply in it believe deeply enough j to )et go the shadow and devote lfNION COLLEGE President Harold Martin and Nigerian Repre· themselve~ . to the suhstance.\ I se~tative to the U.N. <;hief Simeo~ 0. Adebo enter Memorial Chapel The Pre&Jdent went on to say, pnor to the Inauguration Ceremomes. Two-Day ·Conference ion about government policies. An Chief Adebo sai that e ucators The Friday evening program I educated person, he said, has one should not permit themselves to is pal.\t of a two-day conference I oth!}r advantage besides his become \!ictims of mental com- of -local chapters of the N.A.A.C.P. knowledge: the ability to think placency. Their interests should i'n New York StFl.te. The theme clearly. · be looked after and their own \To b·ansform is not necessarily 1· \ to lose substance; it is only to . \ find new ways of making sub- I the campus, Y/hen Jos.eph . Frederick Goldman, .Professor stance available.\ , Jacques. Ramee hmlt an arch.1!Ito of History, Princeton Universit~· 1 the design of our central ed1f1ce, and special consultant to Presi- of the conference is \The Vote . . . . . 11,nd the Dollar; Weapons of Free- Problem m New NatiOns 1 houses cleaned. This IS especl- dom.\ Panel dis~ussions on edu- At this point in ~he conference, ally true in regard to the so-call- According to President Martin, I he was embodying the sureness dent Johnson. ·' ~he substance.o. f Liberal learni!lg· of the .. keystone, the promise pf ~--------~--- rs the educatiOn of students m-. the rambow, and the v1stas avail- ORIENTATION JOB stead of the .training of theJ?· T~e 1 able ta all. who look bravely out- college must not copy the big um- ward. I have every reason to versity centers but, \use narrow- I believe that his architectural de- n.ess, use focus, us~ s~cializa- 1 sign is still a prophetic one.\ t1on; not as the umvers1ty uses The Inaugural Address was ~hem, to .enhance. expertness, but I foll(}wed by the awarding of hon- cation. housin~, and economic ad~ an interesting and lively exchange ed trend when ·it is perceived, even yancernent will 'be held at the took place between Dr. Goldman though it may not exist in real- Hotel Van Curler all day Satur- and Dr. Barnett. The latter made · • day, beginning at 9:30. A.M. the point that the individual roles Jty. .. ~ Ill a .radJ~ally d1ffe~·ent way, to· orary degrees. A Doctor of Civil be the sprmg boar1 mto that ~en- Law was given to His Excellency, ~ral .sub~tance of hberal l~~rm;;g, I Chief ·Simeon Ola<l'sebikan Adebo, mqmry mto human cond1t10n. Ambassador of Nigeria to t}le Refers to Ramee United Nations. Also awar4ed was a ·Doctor of Letters to V m- In closi:.hg his address, Presi- cent MacDowell Barnett, Presi- dent M~~in referred to Ramee, the dent of Colgate Univel.\sity and origina.it'-architect and planner of Doctor of Humane Letters to Eric The ~ENGAGE-ABLES .:·,go for ~b2sa..k~\ Prices from $100. to $~500. Rings Enlar&ed to Show Beauty oE DetaU. ® Tnde·Mark R~. ~ Each Keepsake setting is a masterpiece of design, re- flecting the full brilliance ,, and beauty of the center dia- mond ... a perfect gem of flawless clarity, fine color and meticulous modern cut. The t. name, Keepsake, in the ring and on the tag is your as- surance of fine quality. >~ Your very personal Keepsake is now at your Keepsake Jeweler's store. Find him in the yellow pages under .! \Jewelers.\ r· HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WI;ODING I Please send new 20-page booklet, \How To Plan Your Engagement ' J and Wedding\ and new I 2-page full· color folder, both for nnly 25¢. 1 Also, send special offer of beautiful 44-'page Bride's Book. · I 1 Nome----------------------------~--~------------ ~-Address ______________________________ _ I City Stat Zip 1 1:' L~E~S~KE!IAMOND !lNG~ SYRACUSE,_NE~_2'0RK ~ 3202J Applications for the position of Assistant Chairman of Fresh- man Orientation, open to present sophomores and juniors must be submitted to the Student Activi- ties office by October 15 • ':Phere will be a dinner-dance of the educator and the public The conference on \Educators for delegates Saturday night at servant are very important. He the hotel. The Y<lu.th Division, said that a problem exists in the and Public Service\ was one of which includes high school and newly emerging nations in which several events that took place college delegates, will have its the e~ucat.ors take such an .. active 1 during the inauguration of Presi- own dinner at the Young Men's part m the g.?ve~nm7nt thflt t~e.Y dent Harold c. Martin. Christian Association building. cannot be obJective m their cr1ti- • • . W11nt to lie I! 11/g llero1 Tlle11 loolt lor 1119 clltJIIenges! - ;: . Come to General Electric, where the young men are important men. Important responsibilities come to you early at G.E. You could find yourself on the team responsible for marketing a new appliance. Or you could be in India, installing a nuclear power plant. Or in a laboratory, looking for applications for a remarkable new \artificial gill\ that lets mam- mals breathe under water. This is a worldwide company that makes over 200,000 different procl- ucts, from jet engines and weather satellites to computers and color TV. In this kind of company, you have to be vety good to get very far. R-otress Is Our.Mosf lmporlqnf Prolvcf If you are good, you'll be rewarded. With money, of course. But with responsibility, too. The most important job you'll ever have is your first job. And the. most important job interview you may ever have is with the man from G.B. GENERAL f/j ELECTRIC

INAU.GURAL SUPPLEMENT .. Booters Lose, 1-0; To Face Syracuse l S ·p···.-.·<::,~~ 7 • .. ···~ · r· · ··t· · . ·· ···.,;;:,\\' ·s :.it :· ~~.~~ • ~- :.: i • \ - . POLITICAL SHIFT Page 3 Chi Ps.i .Of Union~s Past Garnet To Face U of R ·Homecomings In Homecoming Contest; Takes 1st; 1Fio~t~b:rrs15~'i~~o Union regains the Dutchmen's R . e· C·O·rds Set A.t· Alf· re·.d. ·D.· .u.·. •.xr. ;ns shoes trophy with a homecoming y J' ·.,_ victory over RP·I, 14-7, before a . f.·- rowd of 4;000. RPI drew first Vol. 95 .-.. The Union College football! end Marc Hurlbut. Hi!diidm blood in the contest without the J?utchmen have a lot more to look kick~d the point-aftrt;touch!l:6~n. benefit of a fhst down. Union forwar? to than the 49-19 score H1t~hco2k plun~~a- one ya1·d Although only six Intramural 'lu:ckly recovered a:s Ma·rquey ~ of their game last Saturday at late in the second ·:period for the Football contests were played scampered over for the first Gar- AlfreJ indicates. second Union score, and gave to last week, the race for the top 11 t d D E 1 d ·· ~Anr Sets For one thing, they didn't have dfback J'im Ramich for a three- herth in each of the three divis- t·: B~br~o~hnd f~: th! ~~c~~~~e to contend with last year's In- yard touchdown in the third. Both ions changed considerably. Ten Years Ago; · dependent College Athletic Con- two-point conversion attempts October 8, 1955 'erence champions any more. The 'ai){;!'d. In the strong Northern Divis- R h t 'd d th .For AEred game is over. (Yet the . Ui!ion rallied on its aerial at- ion, Chi Psi took over undisput- . · oc es er provl· e ~.mater~ wonst may be yet to come.) tack for most of the game, ex- Pd pGssession of first place, as tal. for a. G!!-rnet upset vtctory. as FGr another they have a chance re·pt when ·they fou·nd· I'Unn 1 'ng t!1ey administered a 31-0 lashing r Umon Pl.ovldeu the homecommg ., ,, · ·u· d th 1 ' crowd with a 20-0 romp. The to start over again tomorrow halfback Ram irh. The 5-9 junior to Phi Delta Theta. n er e. f' t u · 1 d · Union 4 $166,000.0( ·Fund, ace ltepor.t is~ Director o when the Garnet plays Rochester picked up 124 yards on 21 car- guidance of junior quarterback 1 lrs . mon touc 1 own came m on Alexander Field at 1:30 P.M. ries, many of them key third- Bill Toth, Chi Psi has recorded 1 the flrst quar,ter and started with to sbrt Homecoihing Weekend. io11'n p 1 a~·s, for an average of liln undefeated, 3-0, record. Beta j a 60 yard run by Dave MeDer- ~ . For a third, though Union may 5.9,' 1 ~?l;ds per carry. Theta Pi, the former first place rnc;r· Roger Olson scored sec- 'log not win many games this year, · \ Challenged team, fell to third position as· on s later on an e~d run .. There one thine: is certain, this season Tfle Union yarsity is well on they we11e edged by Delta Upsi.lon ·was no more scormg until the the Dutchmen may break nearly its way to season records in sev- 16-10. Delta Upsilon took over last quarter wf1en Olson ran from every all-time individual record . \\ second place as they defeated Fiji tl~e 12 yard lme. in the book. :t 7-6. Tlianms to their agg'l~essive At least that was the indica- l'Ine play, D.U. sports a 3-1 rec- f'lttttn~~ gnut·rn -'t.hntt tion last Saturday when tl:te Gar- 1 . '1rd. Rounding out the action in· 'Wu ~ ~ ~ \\1 ,.; ~ 4~ 't\ net smashed four of five. individ- . \ . the Northern Division; Phi Ep- Tijan Sallah races Hamiltonian for the ball. Bob Sg'ang'a backs ual game records, and S•tarted silon Pi beat Fiji by a yardage 'N·e=ther ra· ..• ·.n him up. well on their way to four m~re playoff af.her a scoreless tie. II Orange is the color of the op- F season marks, des!}ite the fact · position. tomorrow a-t 12:30 at' rosh Booters that the Dutchmen were the vic- ,. D. Chi First Daley Field as the Garnet Boot-· tims of a trouncing at Alfred. Only one game was played in ers try to even their 1-2 record: ToM t U £ R Passing Records Shattered the Eastern Divi·sio.n, but a vic- Nut onl • that the . ported, bu tributors in the pas of the aim a gain of gain .of 19 at t~e ,expense of Syracuse U~i-1 ee • 0 • The 30-point loss may spell out. tory for Delta Chi meant sole ver:s1ty s so~cer te<7m. The Sy1 a- 1 Wednesday saw Union's fresh- a disaster, but the record book possession of first place. Delta ~use. squad. IS r_elatively ne.w, ~av- n_Ian booters .pitted agai'nst the shows anything but that. At the Chi responded by smashing nor snow nor heat nor Liz ... ! '· The cla: creasing i: is the Cla of $500.00 whereas t $800.00. ~ that as th uation incJ osity, this for the co The fig latest Anr crea:se of of five ye~ b t t d 1 1 ttl conclusion of the game, Union's Theta Delta Chi 30-0. Kappa mg · een reac JVa e on Y a 1 e Northwood Prepschool. The team's varsity, led by passer Tom Hitch- Alpha and Sigma Phi share sec- o.ver 3; year ago. However th, e goals were scored by left-wing 1 h 1 b k d \~ry s1ze of Syracu~e_should pro- Dave Barton and left-inside Dan COC{, af ac Jim Ramich, and on place with 1-1 records, while vide ample competltlDn for the Meade. receiver George LaPorte, found Phi ·Sigma Kappa and Theta Del-· G t that it had broken game records ta Chi bring up the rear with 0-2 arn€ • Before the Northwood squad for most passes attempted, com- records. Last Wednesday, the Dutchmen could get their bearings, heads- pleted, and received, as well as sutfered their second defeat of up play by ~fl.Ve Barton resulted the mark for total offense. the season, losing a squeaker to in Union's frrst' goal. Receiving Hitchcock broke two of his own Vermont, 1-0. ,!:iempler of Ver-. a pass from Flip MacCarthy, Bar- 1964 records by decisive margins. mont scored the lone goal at 3:52 ton maneuvered past the opposi- He attempted 56 passes, 13 more in the last period to provide the Von goalie to net the ball. Dan than he fired against Williams winning margin. He shot from Meade put the second score last ·season, and he completed 26, about twenty yards out. Coach through the Northwood net as boosting his record of 22 in last Quarterback Hitchcock sets more Evans utilized both a four and aggressive play on his part gave year's Williams corrtest. records. (see story) five man line in attempting to ljim tvYo chances for the goal. George LaPorte, a 5-foot, 8-inch stop UVM. Coach Evans describ- The period ended with the score senior wingback, broke the ail- ed the game aB \clean rugged, 2-0, Union leading. time mark for most passes caught rough soccer, a well-played ball At about the five minute mark in a single game. He collected game.\ In the Syracuse game, in the second period the referee 14, five more thaon Art Marshall Evans will try to provide more awarded a direct kick to North- hauled in against Hobart last offensive punch to coincide with wood due to a Union foul. The year. the stJ'ong defense. Vermont had Northwood center scored as he The total offense mark set previously beaten Maine, 7-1, and sent his shot just over the out- against Williams in 1964 also Connecticut, 3-0, before edging stretched hands of the Union went with Saturday's game. The Union. Evans was forced to play goalie. new record of 351 yards total of- the game without the services At !he thr.ee minute mark of fense replaced the old mark of of sophomore Bob Seefried who the third periOd Northwood scor- 298. is owt with a broken finger and ed a;gain on a corner kick which Alfred Romps a leg infection. was ~ead~d .through the net by I Yet six touchdowns by the The Union varsity soccer team, ~he right-mside: No other sc~n·- Saxons of Alfred in two big quar- rebounding from an opening day mg took place I'?- th~ game Wlth ters, the first and the las-t, and defeat to Rochester, defeated our team extendmg Its record to spectacular kicking by place- Hamilton last Saturday, 2-1, for an unprecedented 0-0-3. kicker Pete Bower and puruter their first victory of the young Frank Wyant made the difference season. as the Dutchmen lost their first Early Lead Fm·lane against almost any other game of the season in two starts. eral departments. Hitchcock has already compl~ted half enoug-h passes to tie 'last year's season- reco1·d of 88 completions. He has also attempted ·nearly half as m:any as he did all last season. La Pol.'lte has only 14 more re- ceptions to go before he beats I Art Marshall's record in that de- partment, and Marc Hurlbut is close behind. He needs 15. The Rocheste-r game tomorrow, the 60th since 1889, offers the Dutchmen more tough competi- tion. Rochester has been the vic- tor the last three years, having won in 1964, 20-14. The lead in the .Southern Di- vrsJOn was thrown into a two- way tie as the big defensive line of Sigma Chi throttled the pass- ing attack of Alpha Delta Phi's Pete Jaco-bson. Scoring (mly once themselves, they shut out Alpha . Delta Phi 6-0. In second posi-. tion is :Pelta :Phi with a 1-1 rec~ ord foll()wed by Psi Upsilon and Phi Sigma Delta, both with 0-1 records. $KI TEAM The;re will he an organizational meeting of the' Union Colleg€ Ski Team on Thursday, Oct. 14, in 305 Baily Hall. Those upper- classmen and frosh in:terested in competitive intercolltgiarte skiing, both nordic and alpine, are invit- ed to attend. In their initial home contest, the Garnet took the early lead in the second period. Sophomore Tijan Sallah broke through the opposing fullbacks, and on a one- on-one situation, he booted the ball past the Hamilton goalie into the left corner of the net. Ham- ilton registered a tally in the third period, but the Dutchmen countered with the decisive score late in the quarter. The turning point of the game occurred when Hamilton \Vas called for a pu::;h- ing foul in the penalty area. So- phomore Larry McFarlane came off the ben~h to shoot the pcnalty kick, and ht• promptly ~aYr tht> Garnet a 2-1 adYantage. Coach Evans said that he will \take Me- penalty kicker in the league.\ Alfred quarterbacks Don Sa-. Coach Evans thought the team go!la and Mike Johnston devoted ' did not play that well, and he the first half to passing and re- said Hamilton actually controlled versed their tactics, going solely most of the game. However, the on the ground, in the second. de~ense showed an excellent im- Their team excelled in both. provement. Greg Olsen and Three quiek scores in the first goalie Ben Volinski were singled quarter, two on 28 and 24-yard out fo,r praise by Evans. passes to end Bill Knobt, gave the Famous W oolan1a YOUR JEWELER AWAY Bowlers Hold Saxons the decisive margin. A 33-yard SagoUa-to-Knott pass in . the second period added 6 points to the halftime margin. Then, after being held score- Aw d B t less in the third quarter, the ar s anque seemingly oversized victors open- Bernie's Mid-Hill Tavern was ed up a 28~19 lead, and never let the sr-ene TuPsclav nig-ht of thr up the furwus attack. 1 fir!'t annual awnrrls han uet of I' Soph.>m~rc h~lfback Bob Ben- the Dutch Cla\!sic Bowling League. ll~casa sprmted ~5 yards t.o sc;ore I About thrN•-qunrter::; of last his second·. f~ur.tP,-~uarter tally y<'ar\ ~fjuad tumNI out for hN•r ~ ~-ft:r plun~~n7 u, ~ard. for one i :wd tl·ophiPs rlistrihuterl by for-' ill~. mmutc:s. ear!Jel. Dan Lac.ey' I llf'r pnl'lidrn.t .1 ohn Gag-ak 'llR i tal 1ed the fm~l touchdown With 1 I Following the ceremonies, mem- i a t!unute left ln the. game. i hers of the Board of Directors . Sophomore place-kicke~ Bower met to form eight teams from made all seven conver~10n trys the current league roster. The good and b.ooted rr:ost kic~off ef- new~y elected executive board forts deep mto Umon territory. consists of sophomores Richard Wyant Boots Springstead, president; Dave The Saxons seldoJ? had to punt, can ever wrinkle h i.l s·: . • • . fBi ... ' ! I I 41' I I ~I Cl Stephen DevelopmE the Annua increases The ftl'st i ing from drastically Previously contribute as the hoc Four ye tribut4J.g 1 Annual F1 ' the presid discretjon, .1963-1964 remodelin§ of a thew the .es.tabli center in~ The but Fund. wen faculty Sl:' the budget This gl' shows \alu futuJ;e,\ - He feels tl lege has }J \ thing to c this is no1 sary for 1 move ahe~ . Conti The Dut be a forge College st1 the varsit' selaer Poi member it It's the cring dus1 since Unio in 1960. R.P.T., o has a chat 1 :30 to re• Trophy in look rathe \The oni varsity fo \is thart; t and <the-y' day.\ FROM HOME Gourli<', vir-c-prPsident; Bob Eri- hut when they d1d, sophomore anne secretary· and John Gra- punter Hyant was on hand to do hack: treasurC'f.' more than an adequate job. His The entire league membership three punts averaged a speetacu- Press-Free. Post-Gra,ds Actuall;v than, u'B1'la' I sayi,ng m1,; I tholight, ] DIAMANTE'S :njoy Our Fine Home Cooke~ Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott St. Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. - 1 A.M. will mtP on the t<'am distribus- Jar 61.1 yards. tions just prior to opening action I. The i~itial UI!ion score ~arne .!Uonday night. , j m the fnst penod when Hitch- . cocl;; fired an 11-yard aerial to CORDUROYS- Tapered Ivy Model • WHEAT e LODEN • BLACK Sizes 27 - 36 5:95 CORDUROY DUNGAREES Sizes 28 - 38 4.50 ~ ;c;c WE CASH YOUR CHECKS The same superlative 100% imported lamb's wool you'Ve enjoyed before-with the added ease and fit only full fashioning can itnpart. Your choice of luxurious colors. •. '' the last ti I was in 19 ..... Nothing p~ts a crease in these pant$ where a 'crease doesn't belong. They hold their crisp, neat look hour after hour. No matter how often they get washed; they never, ever need ironing . .._ Trimly tapered with belt loops and cuffs. Colors and fabrics for casual and dress 111! wear. 65% Dacron® polyes- 21-0 victol The ver in nearly~ pects Uni concerns t: win, they' publicity- nati-onal p R.P.I. i~ pointed o1 in the otl the big ofl pound cen· and 230. ' halfback :r . ter I 35% cotton, $6.98. Flan· nels, hopsacking, reverse : twists,Acrilan®acrylic, $7.98. 1 (Slightly higher in the West.) io.. .. Th€ R. 11t . '•' they can son. That 326 State St. Ph. 377-3061

8, 1965 a:t the mark whom always the man for it, ege ever ours summon ~;~.t lea·st ,, the op- daily on about ~· to be ateful to a place im- ·• on Corn- • onies fol\. ' 2nd, . I· publicly students made Martin a like Pearce for their ~ to the pro- as- the aft- Harlow the dele- in many the deJe- where ·as ush- ,... Arnold serv- resident's and . ., also per- lary zeal. of thanks many 1 especially and Bill work of and at an i'l1- of whom ~ a hitch. our col- all hope, I be with ... ......, .... ::. ~I) $~.·· 1) .: ,.; · .. ~. ~ .... Only! ;~ INAlJ.GURAL ADDRESS: The Necessary Transfortnation ', Delivered by Harold C. Martin October 2, 1965 The following text has been slightly abridged due to inade· quate space: It is a great honor to assume the presidency of this old and enduring College ·and to assume, at the same time, the chancel- lorship of a University only slightly less old and no Jess endur- ing ... Lilte every (}ther smal'l, priva.te liberal arts college in the country, Union College faces. today a crHiicail decision which neither wealth, of which it has a modest amount, nar age, of which it has more than most in this count1•y, is sufficient to help it mlrke. Age may promise survival, for what has endured pre- vious trials, may endure yet another; and a modest competence may make the surviva:l fairly comfortable. But neither can by itself provide the action that this decision caUs for. In simplest terms, this College - and athers like it - if they are to remain healthy must now decide how to effect a necessary transforma- tion. Not whether, for I believe the die is cast, but how. A Fading Star? Wiser heads than mine have for the pas.t decade warned us that, unless 'the smaB, liberal arts college does effect a trans- formation, does find for itself an altered and distinc.tive role in fantastically bloated educational structure of our time, it will lose .prestige, lose influence, perhaps 'even .disa;ppear. Faced with the severe competition of great university centers, public and pri- vate; ground between the growing strength and ambition of good secondary ·schools and community colleges and the repacious de- mands of graduate schools; haunted by a marketplace h1 which too many institutions Academic and Industrial vie for too few scholars: how, the warners ask, can the small liberal ar>ts college ~f tradition be anything but a fading star? It is true that the traditional liberal arts college has had a long and honorable history in some parts of the western world. . . . It is important to remember that, not even in the western world, has the liberal arts college been the only, or even the most common, instrument for providing that info1•ming culture. And It rs equally important to recognize that it .is now far from being what, even fifty years ago, it was. lt may, indeed, be pertinent to ask, in the Hght o'f the chaRges made in it, how much of \liberal\ and how much of \education\ really remains. To bemoan the passing of a tradition is as idle as to see in every innovation a cure for old ills. Liberal education, in the forms by wJJ,.ich we have praised and honomd i·t, may ·well be doomed. !pmay, in :fact, be dead already. But liberal learning need no.t-die, not if those who believe deeply in it believe deeply enough to let go the shadow and devote themselves to the sub- stance. The world does not much care about or even long remem- ber, except in ceremonial moments. the forms in which learning is cast .... What culture preserves, what culture grows from, is not the form but the spirit, not the shadow but the substance. To transfor;n is not necessarily to lose .substance; it is only to find new ways of making the substan~e ava'lable. No matter ,~ how jangling the alarm, time is a c 1 ock with hands we cannot tnrn back. Nor can the alarm be stilled by ignoring it. The liberal ar~s college today must change b·r consciously transform- ing itself, or it will be further changed by forces over which it will have steadily diminishing control. Not Courses But Pre-courses What, first, is the substance of liberal learning, the sub- stance our liberal arts colleges were originally founded to pro- mote? It is a,t b::~t.tom a convict'on that the education of J<Oung ,,., men and women takes preceden('e over the tl•aining of them ..•. ' For a time in the lat~ 'twenties and the 'thirt:es, under the aegis of \general education,\ rn attempt was made to stem the tide of professionalism and vo~at'onalism in college. :But the war came, ,.,; ,and then a new technology, and the curriculum has discernibly returned to the course it has long been running. It is time now to ask. most soberly, if the sp[rit of the time made, and makes, liberal learning imposs;b'e or if we have simply failed to find nmv forms suffic!ent to the need and appl'Opriate to the time. ·~ Surely, mau ba·S not changed ... He remains man, a questio.n- ing creature, seeking to know himself, to use and refine his natural powers, to realize what he alone, of living creatures, has imaginat;on to conceive and admire. If now his education i·s dive~ted from those high aims, it is not beca~se he has changed; but 1t may be because the forms that once remforced those aims no longer serve so we:I, no longer have the vitality to counter forces, external and internal, that press him to put vocation and > profession before education of the human spirit. It could have been predicted - indeed, it was freely pre- dicted by many - that, as a farm, \general education\ would not ba strong enough to serve the purposes for which it was designed. From the beginning its emphasis was perhaps too \\ much on \general too l'ttle on \education.\ It more frequently sought breadth than a fine drawing-out o:f sober thought. It is, after all, not important that everything be surveyed; it is only important that whabver is surveyed be surveyed liberally. The difference is profound. It is no more the purpose of libet•al edu- cat:on to make men encyclopedists than to make them profes- sionals or mechanics. Its purpose is to make them thoughtful and generous and wise. To that end almost any subject-matter will serve if it is liberally taught and liberally studied, for - so taught and so studied - all subje.ct-matter is part and parcel of one subject, and the subject is man himself; man alone as a part of nature; man confronting outer space, man confronting the inner spaces of his mind and soul. ... Though there may be practical advantages ih using: one subject-matter rather than another for the purposes of liberal learning, the difference is not nearly so much in the matter as in the mode .... The Proper Study Take this, then, as the substance: this richnes·s, this excite- ment, this growing sense of awareness and O<.f power. What, .then, of the forms? What we know about the patterns of our time is that they are specialized, focussed- narrow, if you like. Young men and women do not have to be told that fact, though they al'e told almost nothing else. They breathe it in from the obstetrical ward onward. What they do need to be told, what they need to be shown, is that these specializations are ()nly forms, that the substance they enclose is common to all. To sug- gest that collegiate education, if it is to be strong, must accom- modate itself to the forms of its time is not to urge that it con- cern iself iwth the forms. It is only to say that, rightly used, these modern forms, like ancient ones, can still be vehicles for t: the substance of liberal learning. The change that must come is one in what is done with them. The college that plays the sedu- lous ape, imitating the university, a sort of higher primate, \\>ill find itself eventually without any role oif its own to play. To stay in the race at aU, it must transform t:he patterns of our time without denying them. It must use narrowness, use focus, use specialization: not as the university uses them, to enhance ex- pertness, but in a radically different way, .to be the springboards into that central substance of liberal learning, inquiry into .the human condition. Today, as two centuries ago when a poet penned the phrase, \The proper study of mankind is man,\ the college must make the biology not simply the facts of biological study, but reflection aJbout biology; of history, not the facts alone, but the philosophical understanding of history. W~bhout philo.s- ophy and without reflection, whatever the matter on which study is exercised, liberal learning will not occur. This is the necessary transformation: not an easy one and not one likely to come about by curricular ref<Orm alone, though that may help, fol' it requires more of men - teachers and ·stu- dents alike - than either habitually or ·comfortably give. Plato's dialogues teach us, above all, .that an hour with ·Socrates was worth a life-time in the company of most mortals. That .Socratic fw . hour is the hour of liberal learning, and no day should pass in the life of a college teacher or student that does not contain some semblance of it. Why this kind of leai•ning should be the peculiar and par- ticular province of the small liberal arts college is not hard to see. That kind of learning is not impossible to the university, and indeed ·it would be folly and slander to suggest .that such learning cannot be achieved there. Yet it is true that the uni- versity, even when clivided into segments, is centrifugal in its motion. It pulls the student and the teaeher outward by the sheer force of its omnipresent diversity, by the magnetic attrac- tian 'Of its graduate divisions, f.ts multifarious research activities, its irrestible absorption in government and industry. For some, even the young, no other kind ·Of education may offer so much; but for many, perhaps even for most, what university education offers provokes premature decision, distracts from the slow and probing process by which young minds naturally mature. In the smaH college these forces are less powerful. They exist, and they have virture in them, but they need not coerce. There, if anywhere, it is still pos,sible to transform the over-professional- ized col'legiate program into one that measures education not by what it teaches men .to become but by what it teaches them to be. For quite practical reasons, the necessary transformation will ·seldom he possible on an isolated campus; and soon, perhaps, not be .possible at .aU in a curriculum that yields neither to pres- sure at the bottom nor at the top. What will be lost if, a decade from now, programs of advanced standing in the schools and development of more two-year community colleges shring the freshman and even the sopohomore class of college to half-their present size or less'! What will be lost if not sixty but eighty or ninety percent of seniol's go on to graduate .study? Nothing of substaNce if the college sees clearly what distinctive experience it can provide and sets itself single-mindedly to provide it. The traditional four-year program is a sacred cow, and Hl<e most s~c!~d cows it has become fat and presumptuous. The arbitrary 41v1SIO,U ~etween ~ollege !\nd graduate sch?ol is an imaginary lme girdlmg us With platitudes and hypocrisy. If it remembers that liberal learning, .is its aim and reason :for being, no good coHege need fear shrmkage in its lower layer or probings into the one above. Benefits yet undreamed may well accrue from both. Isolation an Illusion . Like confine'!lent within a pattern that has already shown 1tself to be fraglls, confinement to campus grounds must yield to the fact that no healthy institution today lives within four walls.. . . . A concommitan~ of the necessary transformation, then, JS encouragement of VIgorous penetration into the world community in its living- forms and ready recepti.on ·Of it within the coUege gates. . ~hat th!l great university in some measures provides in diversity on Its campus, the small college must learn to provide in O'ther ways and with its own hands. And precisely because it must do so, deliberately, with its own hands, it stands the best char:ce <?f keeping control 9ver what it does. By judicious pene- tratiOn mto the world outstde and by selective acceptance of the Kick the life of community to its own grounds, it can perhaps avoid suc- cumbing to the loss of :focus and the confusion of purpose that often beset the student trying to discover himself amid the pres- sures and centrifugal pull of the university. For the small col- lege, seeking a new place in the sun, the world must increasingly become, I think, an extension of the classroom, for travel, for study, and for work. That extension need not, and should not, wait for the termination of the collegiate program, for the col- lege years are precisely those in which the zest for variety and the yield from it are strongest, in which the need to test what is learned against the steel of personal experience is most impor~ tant. You remember the words of Miranda, in The Tempest, when she first sees assembled from various parts of the world al'l the noble company of the play: 0 wonder! How many goodly creatures are there here! How beauteous mankind is! 0 brave new W()rld, That has such people in't. This is the world the young see, and it is the world the college must make available for them to see. Later, when age and ex- perience have dulled the wonder, they may resignedly .say, with Miranda's father, \ 'Tis new to thee.\. But in these college years they need to forge, in the smithy of their souls, and through the blows of hammers they themselves can wield, a firm belief in the wonder of the world and in their power and responsibility to act wonderfully in it. If Mr. Gradgrind insists that the world is harsh and there is work to be done, the answer is that the labors and pains of life come as they come and need no antici- pation. The young can face them as courageously as the old. What they must not do, what the liberal arts college must not let them do, is forget that learning done without joy is slav- ery and learning begun without exploration is a fetter on the mind and spirit. New forms or fold, the substance <>f liberal learning must be preserved, and the small college has yet a chance to preserve it, to preserve for the young who will some- day be old what they may never have such good occasion again to discover, that awareness well expressed by a courageous modern poet: ... what a shining animal is man, Who knows, when pain subsides, that is not that, For worse than that must follow - yet can write Music; can laugh; play tennis; even plan, I believe it is possible for the small liberal arts college to preserve that substance and enhance that awareness. And I be- lieve that, in this critical time, a right decision will be made here at Union College and right action follow. When Jacques de la Ramee built an arch into the design of our central edifices, he was embodying the sureness of the keystone, the promise of the rainbow, and the vistas available to all who look bravely outward. I have every reason to believe that his al!cbitectural design is still a prophetic one. .. dull driving habit. Step out in a lively Dodge Coronet. lsn 'tit tirne .. You Jotned th Forget all you've seen and heard about '66 cars. Because Coronet is here •.. sharp, smart and sassy, the greatest thing trom Dodge since Year One. Loaded with lu><ury the higher-priced cars haven't caught onto yet. With a choice of five engines, each one designed to make the walls of Dullsville come tumbling down. And with a whole slew of standard equipment that used to cost extra. like an outside rear view mirror. A padded dash for extra safety. Variable-speed electric windshield wipers and washers. Backup lights. Turn signals. Seat belts, two front and two rear. And, as some extra frosting on the Coronet cake, a 5-year or 50,000-mile warranty.* Enough said to get you really tempted? Now let's get away from the look-alike, drive-alike, first-cousin cars with Coronet, a car with a lively personality all its own. DODGE DIVISION ~~cHRYsLER B& D,.d,n. ''-- .-. 0 ,anet ~ MOTORS CORPORATION ..., ':fllliiii ... 1 *HERE'S HOW DODGE'S 5'YEAR, 50,~00-MILE ENGINE AND DRIVE TRAIN WARRANTY PROTECTS YOU: Chrysler Corporation confidently warrants all of t~e lollowing vital parts of its 1966 cars for 5 years or 50,000 miles, whichever comes first during which time any sufh parts that p~ove def.ective in materia I and workmanship will b~ replaced or repaired ata Chrysler Molars Corporation Authorized Dealer !l ~lace of busm~ss Without charge for such paris or labor: engme block, head and internal parts, intake manifold, water pump, transm1sston case a~d mtemal parts (excepting manual clutch), torque converter, drive shafl, universal joints, rear axle and differential and rear wheel beanngs. ' REQUIRE~ MAI~TENI\NCE: The following m~in,tenance services are required under the warranty-change engine oil every 3 months or 4,000 mtles, whichever comes first; replace otl !titer every second oil change; cle~n carburetor air filter every 6 months and replace it every 2 years; and every 6 rnonth.s furnish evidence of this required service to a Chrysler Motors Corporation Authorized Dealer and request htrn to certify recerpt of such evrdence and your car's mileage. Simple enough for such important protection. Join the Dodge .Rebellion at your Dodge Dealer's. e Dod R ge ebeflion? WATCH 'THE BOB HOPE CHRYSLER THEATRE\ WEDNESDAY N),GHTS ON NBC-TV. CHECK YOUR LOCAL LISTINGS.-----

~ if\ i ., \ ~ Vol. 95 -·. No. 4 .. ~ Annual Fund before a first the Union Sets Record Ma·rquey t- Gar- passed For Alumni ~ ' '\ By Robert Klomp e mater~ ictory as i • ,, The Union College alumni contributed $16.6,000.00 to the 1964.-1965 Annual ·Fund, accord.ing to the 53rd Annual Report issued by Richard E. Adams Director of the Annual Fund. came in with McDer- sec- ~--., There the Nut only is thil:l the hugtJ::>t figure • that the Annual Fund has ever re- ported, but the number of alumni con- tributors has increased significantly in the past few yeat's. This year 42',0 of the alumni contributed to the Fund, ran from .. a gain of 5% over last year, and a gain .of 19% over a five year period. ~64 Over the Top The class which highlights this in- creasing interest in. the Annual Fund is the Class of '64, which se~ a goal of $500.00 and :actually 1·aised $1,200, whereas the Class of '61 raised only b . · $800.00. Since it is a general trend that as the years subsequent to grad- uation increase so does a class' gener- osity, this is a very promising note for the college. ~I I ~I i The figure of $166,000 set by the latest Annual .Fund represents an in- crease of $67;000.00 over the figure of five years ago. Changes in Soliciting Stephen F. Holbrook, '56, Director of Development, who is concerned with the Annual Fund, explained that these increases are caused by two factors. The fil'st is that the method o.f solici-t- ing from alumni has been changed drastically over the past four years. Previously alumni were requested to contribute to .a particular fund, 'Such as the bookstore fund. F(}Ul' years agG alumni began con- tributip.g tG an unrestricted. fund, the Annual Fund. This. fund is used by \~~' ' the president of the college, at his discretjon, for many purpGses. The .1963-1964 Annual Fund paid for the remodeling of West College, addition . • ~· of a thea:ter to Nott MemGrial, and the .establishment of a data processing center in Silliman Hall. The bul:k of the 1964\1965 Annual Fund. went to provide for a ri·se in faculty salaries and an increase in the budget of the-libJ.:ary. . AlUlllni Loyalty This giv.j.ng .of un:re,st:dcted funds shows \all;lllUJJ loy~lty and faith in the futu:~;e,\ ~ccording to Holbrook. He feels that co)lltributing to one's col- lege has pecome m()re and more \the thing to do\ for an ·alumnus. \And \ this is not .only ;fortunate but neces- sary for Union to h(}ld its own and ID(}Ve ahead,\ adde!l · Hol}:lrook. Continued on Page 5 Col. 4 • •• Founded at Union College 1877 FRIDAY, OCTOBI;:R 15, 1965 L.H.S. To Stage Joyce \THE COACH WITH THE SIX INSID.ES\ will be presented at Lin- ton High School, Wednesday evening, October 20, at 8:30. By William Lasnik novel in chore()graphic terms. She soon added drama and pantomine. The- show first opened in 1962. Jean Erdman will present \The Coach With the Six Insides\ at Linton Hdgh School, Wednesday, October 20, .at 8 :30 P.M. The performance, which is sponsored by Union College and the Capital Area Modern Dance Council will be considered a convocation. Tickets are free to Union College Students, and will be available at the door. A shuttle bus to Linton will leave Memorial Chapel at 7:30. \The Coach With the Six Insides\ is a combination of comedy, dance and musical score based on James Joyce's Finnegans Wake. The prize-winning melange of acting, dancing, music and mime has been produced in New York, Paris, Dublin, Tokyo, and Spoleto. The New Y oi:k Time's described it as \superb ... splendid.\ The New York- er commented \qui<te lovely • • . Joyce's puns, jokes, .and lyric passages are wonderful.\ Teiji Ito will provide music for the performance. He and two other mu- sicians use twenty-seven instruments in the complex musical score. Jean Erdman, American dancer, first intended a tmnslation of Joyce's ' . Mountebanks The Mountebanks will conduct try- outs for the first production, \The M.istre&S of\ the Inn\ Monday, October 18, and Tuesday, October 19 from 8:30 to 10:30 p.m. in Nott Memorial The- atre. Preceding the M·onday tryouts there will be an organizaticmal meet- ing, beginning 811;. 8:00. William J. Meriwether, directo1; of the MO'Unte- banks, urged that all interested in participating in ·any phase of produc- tion should attend this meeting. Any Union College student may try- out for a· role. S·cripts of the play have been placed on reserve in Schaf-, fer Library. Performance. dates are December 8 tlu·ough 12. There is no admission charge for students or faculty. Tickets for dates are $1.00, and general ad- mission is $1.~\'· ~ The play, first perf.or:med in Venice in 1753, was written by Goldoni, the Italian genius of comedy. It deals with three men and their attempts to win the affectimus of the mistress of the inn by various schemes. PRICE 15 CENTS Religious Cotntnittee Supp·orts ·students' F r,eedotn of Choice . . By Robert F!'iPd The Committee on Religious Activities went on record Wed- nesday afternoon as supporting \the fr<'i:'dom of students to choose their own programs for entertainment.\ - In a stutl'mcnt i.~:>ul'li after u meet- Local IRC's Plan Mixer The Intema.tional Relation~ Club will hold. its annual nception for for- eign students this Sunday at 7:30p.m. in Hale House. This year the program has been ex- panded to include foi•eign students from Skidmore, Russell Sage, Albany State, the College of St. Rose, and R.P.I. Members of the Intemationai Relations Clubs of these schools will also attend· the affair. Members of the faculty and admin- istration have also been invited. The reception is open to the student body. Between 75 anti 100 persons are ex- pected to attend. First in Series \This is the first in a series of events,\ said Mark Levine, IRC pres- ident, \to acquaint Union students with the foreign students on campus. It is an opportunity to meet them in an informal atmo'Sphere.\ The club will also sponsor a series of brunches throughout the year in an effort to familiarize Union students with \the existence and opportun- ities. offered by exchanges of students with other countries.\ In addition, seve1·al students will be invited to present short talKs aoout their countries at monthly IRC meet- ings. The 13 foreign students at Union this year come from foul' continents. Five are fl'Om Afriea, one is from Asia, three from Latin America, and four from Europe. ing with rL'prl'sentat.ivt•s of :-;everal .-tudenl IJrganizations, tlw com.rHittee ann<>Uil('ell that it ~U'(l!Jnrtl'd \in pl'in- eiple\ the petition circulated last week. The petition was started in response to the rlerision of Dr. ~orman B. John- :;on, chairman of the committee, tu ban rock and roll groups hom ·Me- morial ChapeL li1 the statement tlw CIJilllllittee also m~tde known its support for a st udent• faculty group to oversee future pro- g-rams. A spokesman for the sophomore cl-ass Weekend Committee said that regardless of the decision of the Com- mittee on Heligious Activities, it waR p1·obably too late to hire rock and roll talent for Fall Weekend. An at- tempt is being made, ho·wever, to hire a group fo1· the scheduled Saturday night concePt. Hespects F1·eedom The full text of the committee's statement follows: \The Committee on Religious Activ- ities, which has been made responsible for the use ·Of Memorial Chapel, wants to go on record as stating that it re- spects the freedom of students to ch?ose their own programs for enter- tamment. We support in principle the petition recently circulated to the ef- fect that the only limit on such free- dom be the exclusions of programs that are vulgar or obscene. We are pleased to accept the assurances of student leaders that the sponsoring class and members of the student bod;r will themselves be responsible for the propriety of student behavio1· in the chapel. We also welcome the suggeS- tion made by one student at our con- ference that a joint student-faculty sub-committee to be establ•ished to consult about future programs.\ Continued on Page· 5 Col. 1 Campus Signm.Switching Plot Leaves Student Body Aghast Shoes at Stake Saturday Gati to Lead UN Conference In New York· r ~~ i I 41 I By Jeff Jlrowne The Dutchmen's Shoes Trophy may be a forgotten award by most Union College students, but you can be sure the varsity football players. of Rens- selaer Polytechnic Institute still rf'- member it. · It's the trophy that hag been gath\ «:>ring dust in the Fielrl Hom:e E'VE'l' since Union devastated the Engineers in 1960. R.P.T., one of Union's major rivals, has a chanre once again tomorrow at 1:30 to reclai'm the Dutchmen's Shoes Trophy in Troy.- but the> chan<'es look rather dubious. \The onJ.y tl'ouble with R.P.I.,\ said varsity f()otball 'Coa.eh George Flood, \is thart; they've lost 42 ball games d~d )'!'hei a~·e g,c>ing. to win one some y. -- .. ~~ '. · ·. · Rf.~· Stronger Actuall:{R~~~l. is prqbably stronger· thart u'snal f!it§·ryear-but that is not sayi,ng much:'\\The only disconcerting lhotight, Mr. Flood indicated, is that the last time Eensselaer won a game was in 1959-against Unlon, an easy 21-0 victory. ee. in crease hold ~t hour how they roning. 4 belt and d dress ~ polyes- Flan- ~ I The very fact that R.P.I. hasn't won in nearly ..six years and that nOibody ex- pects Union to lose this one also concerns the C()a.<:h. \When they finally win, they're going to make national publicity-and thart's not the kind of nati-onal publicity I want.\ R.P.I. is capable of winning, Flood pointed out, indicating two strengths in the otherwise weak team. One is the big offensive line, including a 275- pound center and guards weighing 209 and 230. The other is a big 195-pound halfback oomed Surdin. .. The R.P.I. engineers proved that '•' they can win once already this sea- son. That was when they suffered a ROCHESTER DEFENDER crashes into Union's leading pass receiver, George La Porte (in white), during the Garnet's 35-14 romp last week before an overflow Homecoming erowd. 14-13 loss to Hamilton in a game Coach Flood said they \should have won.\ Flood has no doubt that ·the Engi- neer's will be up for this game. While the Garnet has been inclined in recent years to call the Hamilton rivalry at least as stl'ong, the Garnet remains the team to beat for R.P.I. Continued on Page 6, Column 1 The Department of Political Science will hold its second \United Nations Seminar\ in New York City from No- vember 22 to 27. The seminar is lim- ited to 10 or 12 students. Anyone wishing to go should see Professor Charles Gati, the head of the project, in his office in Bailey Hall. Applicants need not be majoring in political sci- ence. Program of Interviews The purpose of the trip, accord.ing to l'rofl•ssor Gati, is to give students more practical knowledge of interna- tional affairs. lie said, \The U. X. Seminar is one phase in the depart- ment's efforts to introduce students to the working of politics, in this case, on an international level.\ The trip is to include interviews With important international servants and diplomatic representatives Gf countries represent- ed in the United Nations. · Professor Gati used examples of some of the events which took place in the U. N. Seminar of last year to illustrate what the present undertak- ing would be like. Thoma's Hamilton, the chief of the New York Times Bur- eau at the United Nations was inter- viewed .. last year, as was John M. Gates, Jr., adviser on Latin American affairs to the late Adlai Stevenson. This year Professor Ga:ti hopes to see booth the Pakistanian and Indian rep- resentatives in order to gain 'some first-hand information {)n the K~sh­ mir Dispute. Student Seminar Students attending; the seminar are to be excused from all classes to be held during the first part <Yf the week bef(}re the Thanksgiving recess. Stu- dents will pay for all meals and transportation while the college will provide lodging's in New York. PEOPLE WERE WO:-.TDERING, over the weekend, why our trustees had supported an Atlantic :Station with the former president of Socony Mobil on the board. By Alan Zeigler Don't be surprised if cars Jrive up :;:ign announcing humanities hui·lding to the new htunanities buildings and was also a mistake· and that the real expect to have their gas tanks filled. sign is ·one announcing the swimming This would be the resulL of the plac- pool which is really being bunt there. ing of a sign ptoclaiming the \coming These have yet to be confirmed. of a new Atlantic Service Station\ at the site of the construction for the new humanities building. This reporter first learned of the new sign fl'(}m confidential som-ees who said that the campus planner had already effected a \major change\ at Union. However, school offictal•s de- nied thi-s, st!•ting that the gas station would \definitely not be buil.t on cam- pus.\ Several students were disap- pointed to learn that the sign wa:s a hoax. Said one, \Gee I thought we'd finally have a coke machine that works.\ Another had been intrigued wi:th the possibility of being \gassed l'.ight on campus.\ Swimming Pool Built Rumor$ were als-o prevalent that the The ·si~n-switching move was engi- neered by several Union students who had a bet with a campus \rent-a-cop.\ It proved to the alumni visiting the campus that Union men are \always· - on the ball. These same students werf! last seen looking for a \Borden's Milk Co·mpany\ sign to place in front of Nott Mem01ial. Students got another laugh when they saw the humanities ·sign re- placed; upside do>vn! However, the laugh will be on them when they find ourt that it is not the sign that is up- side down but, in fact, as another prank the campus has been turned upside down. By the way, hasn't Schenectady looked f.unny lately?

Fridav. 1 , O~to_J:l~r 15, 1965 Friclay, C 2 ....... ! ~···---- Brahms Review: ... ~ .. ,. F acuity Column: Psychological Motif Pervades Greene's Dense Labyrinth QUarte·t Weaves Virtuoso Spell:: By Prof. Lawrence Weitz Graham Green in The End of the Af· t'ait·, presents valuable insights in com- prehending the depth. and _inner ~truggl~s of his charactei'S. Hts skill marufests It- ~elf in a psychological awareness, ~d his deep under:;tanding of. the conc7ptwn of the uncoThSClous adds nch meamng to a paradoxically religious novel. ''So much of a novelist's writing,\ he ,;ays \takes place in the unconscious; in thos~ depths the last word is written be- fore the first word appears on paper. We remember the detaHs of our story, we do not invent them. War didn't trouble those deep sea caves, but now there was som£- thing infinitely more importance than war, than my no,;el - the end of love.\ \Shadowy\ Personages :::-=~~~1 @@1 Wf~ ~w ~~%~~ ~~~~l ~~ II ~~- ,, !~~ !11~~ w.m ~:g~ ll @#. ~~1 @\1,** ~~:w ~~ By Carl Heeder For the opening program of the Sche- ~ tectady Museum-Union CoUege Concert .eries of 1965, The Brahms Quartet per- ·ormed last Tuesday evening three selec- ions well chosen to show the musicality ,f the four artists. The th1•ee selection's veJ.'e Mozart's \E flat maj01~, K, 403,\ ~opl.and's \Quartet for Piano and ;trings,\ and Brahms' \Quartet in C 1inor, Opus 60.\ Each piece demruJ.ded • lifferent attributes: the Mozart, individ- al virtuosity; the Copland, a shared lense of feeling; anl the Brahms, a test f group compatability with respect to 1 ·olor and flav01:. l<'ollowing the last selec- ~ion, and after con'siderable applause, the ~uartet offered the Brahms \Rondo\ :rom the \Fh·st Quai'tet.\ This, like the Jther Brahms, was a manife~tatiO'll of 1 ;-;roup co-0rdination. Melody Shifts · The opening \Allegro\ of the Mo~~rt was signified harm0nically by a shifting • of key eenter at the end .of eaeh pattern, and other variations were formed by in- ~roducti0ns of minor modes and shifts in vhe melody among the Instrument::;. The }nds of sections were closed with a rest- ll'l .'ul plagal cadence which was used for ,he basis of another melody, so the melo- lies flowed easily and came as no sur- ,>rise to the listener. The performers .mmtained each melody as a .crisp entity mly vaquely aware of the accompani· nent. Except for Henry, the chief characters in this book are rather vagueLy drawn, shadowy - we are not told what they look. like, we cannot picture them. They move forv;a1·d and backward indiscrimi- nately in point of time. It is only in re- . gard to their deepest thoughts and emo- tions, their fears, their inner agonies that the allthor turns them inside out for our inspection. He vivisects them before our almo&t reluctant eyes. \If love had to die, I ·wanted it to die quickly. It was as though our love were a small creatw·e caught in a trap and bleeding to death; I had to shut my eyes and wring its ])lembers of the Brahms Quartet take their bow:;; after demonstrating their musical skill. II_ The second movement appeared more .s a rhythmic 'Surprise, and h,esit!!-ti()nS · aught the listener's ear. The entrances neck.\ And again, \He gave me so much outside his duties as a civil servant, his love and l gave him so much love that wife and his fliend are strangers to him, soon there wasn't anything left where and yet somehow in the end, as Maurice we'd finished but you.\ realizes, he possesses the \winning cards \This is a record of hate far more than -the cards of gentlness, humility and of love,\ Maw·iee tells us. But he is trust.\ Henry, at least, never even im~ wrong. There is no hate in it. Anger, agines he f-eels any bate. A Study in Hate distrust, suspicion - hut not hate. Sarah know's this. \Maurice who thinks he hates,\ she says, \but loves, loves all the time.\ Mr. Parkis, the timid little de- Maurice, who desires to hate and much tective, created and introd.uced _now and of the time persuades himself to believe then for the sake of comtc relief when that he does is consumed with such a tragedy grows unbearable - M_r. Parkis passion of lo~e for Henry's wife that his loves all the ttme, t~o. A shy h~tle man days and nights are spent in a torment w1th gentle, apologetic, fawn - hke eyes. of suspicion and fear. He is captured by \I tried to outstare him,\ Maurice says, an individual pain fr.a:ntic w1th misery \and that was easy.\ \It's my _boy,\ Mr. obsessed with the thought of Sarah. H~ ~Jarkis says. \He started wtth g:reat wants to hurt evel'ybody because he is so 1deas about me - and he does take 1t so hurt himself and does sometimes when to heart. wh~n I make a fl.oat~r.\ Heis for a mom~nt h.is instincts run' away uneasy m h1s task of shado~·mg Sarah: with him. The words that set her cry- \She was a lady of great kind!less who ing \had been sharpened in those under- deserved to l>e left alone. You JU'st can't water eaverns\ of the unconscious. With pick and choose in my job-but I wished Henry and the unctuous priest, after !t was,any other lady I had the wateh- Sarah's death, he completely loses con- mg- of. trol; \She deceived you, Father, as she The Rivals deceived her husband and me. She was Henry, the husband of Sar.!Vt, is first a consummate liar- ;I wasn't her only presented to us as an ineffectual, diseon- lover - any man could have her.\ But solate character, his eyes red-rimmed, most of the time he can't he cruel, ·he is bl.ood-shot - the \after-effects of tears.\ gentle and pitiful, he \loves all the tim-e\ Or so his rival, Maurice, guiltily feels. in spite of himself. If only they could He knows his wife, Sarah, does not lo-ve sculpture a statue of life where they him and because of her frequent evenings could begin again, \cutting out each . .vere flawlesss. The final \Allegretto\ M2.urice re-cognizes,. \Her !Th()ther had ways alone.\ Sarah struggles against hel ;hared its music between the string·s on taug-·ht her effectively en•ough that one love for Maurice, yet continues her search me hand and the piano on the other. The ,,, · man was not enough for a liifetime.'' She .for meaning and truth with other men. piece, as a whole, drew on the ind~vidual marries Henry, s}le loves Ma.urice, ·and \She mixes religicm with desertion to performers melodic grace. The result \in her shabby way\ cases f.or them both. make it sound noble to herself.\ was a clean, delicate offering. But they do not interfe1~e with her affaira Missing Tones with. Q't.b.er men. It is ,a question to many But Sarah knows little about religion The Copland first movement posed the \' 1 t•e.aders, perhaps, whether this particular and less abO'Ut God. She only knows problem, \What shall we do with an trait is likely to be founrl in such a wom- blindJ.y that she has made a vow and eleven-tone row'!\ The missing tone clues an as Sarah is in other ways. somehow it must be kep.t. Urged by the ear that there is a toni,c, but the re- . . Maurice she considers leaving Henry to maindng eleven oblite~ate any chance of •· . For a long t1·me she does ~ot beheye lll8Jrry Maurtice - perhaps God would locating it. The second movement adds a Ill God -and she appears to sm happily not disapprove of this. But Henry be- stronger rhythm sequence and shaves and· without compunc-tion. \Unlike the seeches her to stay and she cannot leave more tones fvom the row. Still the tonic rest o.f us she was U';lhaunted by g~t. In him. Then the thought she has enter- eludes. A melody wants to emerge but her vtew, when a thm~ was done, 1t was tained for two ;·ears becomes obsession. can't. The la'st movement shortens the 'l done; remorse died WJth the aet - she \Let me die soon. Me, me, me.\ row even farther and sets out on a trial believed in God as little as I (Maurice) by error to find a fitting melody. One did.\ Then when she thinks Maurice i·s Love and hate and death and God-the solution was a surrealist \Three Blind dead she prays \to anything that might f t f th b k Tl 1 M' \ b f 1 1 exist\: '\Pear God - I love h.im and I'll our ex remes o e oo . 1e peop e toe, ut or ac c of a pivot point the <;I d<J anything if yo-u'll make him alive _ are incidental. Love that can have no unique melody goes unfound. r•n give him up forever,\ And she, who fulfillment. Hate that yields no satis- It is, perhaps, unfortunate that the h:ad never really been true to anything, is faction. God who is only a hitter com- Copland work was performed only once true to this pl'omise. The \an-ything that pulsion. Only d~.mth offers peace. So sin-ce (as Prof. Curtis pointed out in a exists\ suddenly perhaps too Sllddenly- Sarah seeks dea:th-and even Maurie· concert last spring) much can be gained becomes God; wirth whom she must keep says, \If she were dead I could be f1·ee.\ from hearing the same contemporary faith, an><! does, \in her shabby w~y\ (her work twice i:n the same evening. In the own words), She may love Him or hwte Blind Acceptance Copland, the members of the group Him bwt she must not lie to Him. So maintained their individuality without ~~ strong is the idea of God in us all. Sarah tries to reach peace through ac- losing the feeling of interdependeiiice. Sham Marriage Maintained t f r · d k' d f · 't Feeling Created cep ance ·O re IgiOn an a m 0 splrl - The fi.rst movement of the B1·ahms ual love which is half mysticism. \Peo- ple can love w1thout .seeing each other, \Piano Quartet in C minor\ was charac- tl can'rt they, they love You all their lives terized by a sound of sorrow or wailing without seeing you.\ But this is cold ~reated at the end; Qf each figure by ri·s- comfoTlt to Maurice. So at las-t she d:es, mg from the tome of the dominanrt to ft t dl . h 1 the fifth of the dominant and falling to away from home, her strange wandering other's misery ;•• about in the rain, he fears she has a lov- So Sarah must free her life from Mau- rice's. however true and deep her love may be, and remain at least outwardly Hellt7's wife. With her p-romise to God Triangle the unfaithfulness that she has hereto- fot·e taken so Jioghtly becomes a sin, an a er repea e Y exposmg erse f to rain the tonic ·Of the original key center. and cold in an ,effort to \end the affair\ t-l in the only way she could see. Because of the need for the group to perform as a whole, the perenlliial acou.s- Green's perceptLon psychologically goes beyond the conscious struggle of his characters and enters into the more so- phisti::ated realm of unconscious impulses tocal pmblem in Memorial Chapel be- came more obvious. Several times while f', the piano was scored in the lower regis- ters, the sound became muddled; not at all clear or clean. The Chapel does not Po ~ As this New Yorl a decade it has att ·on the na· Most of 1 the candic overused ~'to d0 witl- been and who live, one, get 'trap aboa ists, critn• and the have nev' ''Great So and atten . .a) . What I one shoul rosmisc f '· the narro reason fo is immen second re c. cations a· Wcnld an spirit wh' a politica ~ I have years, ad I know it • of it. M~ however, of :its far longer a ' will no lo residents what I mise of 1 ol: s.o-me vit: it was a admin1str ine atter fi which ar Eviden abundant schools. ~ tained O\ ·~take mo them, ne bish ther .,, inexcusal pie who fortunate New Yo1 antee its f. Many lay, have about NE er; and yet, in the \serenity of inno- cence\ which he keeps in spite of his un- happiness and inadequacy, he is more ashamed of his suspicions than Maurice and Sarah of their betrayal of his trust. In his honest love and concern he is blind to his wife's affairs and \always\ treads unknowingly on the \squeaky Rtair\ to give warning of his approach. He has no real lrnowledg·e of anything Sarah, so shadowy as a physical being. impossibility. As Mauri~e points out, she so cruelly alive in her struggle with her- has a new hitter awarene'sS of God, \in self, with Henry, with Maurice, with God, whom in those days we were lucky enough can only go on loving and contending not to beliece.\ And now they are lost with them all to the very end. Every- and unhappy. \We were not in touch- one's unha-ppine-ss is. brought about sole- in the same desert, seeking the same ly by her infratu.ation with men. As water-holes perhaps, hut out D'f sight, al- (Continued on Page 4) (Continued on Page 3) (.also. Fr· ties on building ing Auth •) ._ ine zonh 1 tempts a w w v V + ** + Y VT i V t. f f t f f f f T '1111 'Moving Finger-' Jay Jewelry Co. 315 STATE STREET 2Jiamon~ ... CAMPUS CLEANERS Opposite Union College The \Moving Finger\ will •1 meet at 7 :30 PM at the Hale House Lounge on Monday, October 18, 1965. DIAMANTE'S Purchased in Belgium and Imported NOTT STREET Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott St. GET for Your Savings. Eliminate Importer and Wholesaler. ONE [1] FREE GOOD AT ANY MIKE'S GIANT SUBMARINE STORE the Arnold Fisher 'SO WELCOME AGAIN 2 or more SHIRTS • • • • • 22~ ea. PANTS •• 49c SUITS •• 98c Dam,brose Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5193 Just AI'C)und the Comer from Mohawk National Bank For three Generations • fhose Who Know. Have been recommending - Open Daily 10 to Sundays 5 P.M. - AM. MAURICE B. WALTER Maurice B. Graubart & Sons \;3 Union Graduates in Graubarf Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY Public h< main pa (• living; i· and it is landlords ,... ner adm. or consi> them. Ir keeps ml Last Y· ·It over $3 $1 I GOOD Good 111 PJ L

1965 Friday, October 15,,1965 3 ~ ! +··\·--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Sche- ~ Concert selec- election's 403,\ and in C emanded ~ individ- shared a test to 1 selec- the \Rondo\ like the of 1 Moz~rt shifting • pattern, by in- shifts in The a rest- It- used for meLo- no sur- sp entity compani- more on The ,,, result posed the \' 1 with an clues there- of •· nt adds a d shaves the tonic but rtens the ' 1 a trial ody. One Blind point the -:11 that the only once out in a be gained In the group without ~~ Brahms charac- ,, wailing by ri·s- minarut to falling to t>l group to acous- be- while .f. regis- not at does not ) will the Hale Monday, Our Gate 1 A·:M. 1 A.M. . .! WALTER Sons Political Scene: A Calculated Detnise By Richard Sifton ~ As this year's mayoralty campaign in New York City is the first in more than a decade which can be considered a race, it has attracted a great deal .of attention · • on the national as well as the lo~al scene. Most of the arguments for and against the candidates are, of course, phrased in overused political jargon that has little.· .,'to de with what New Yor], is. what it has· been and what it could be to the millions .• who live, work, and visit there. I, for one, get sick of the cliche'-ridden clap- ' trap about bossism (although it still ex-. ists, crime (which is still getting worse), and the city's minority groups (which· ha\\e never been given, not even in the . ·'Great Society, the type of recognition and attention they deserve). Look Past Politics Education, Not Welfare The obvious solution, according to om Brahms (Continued from Page 2) leaders, is to subsidize rent, to increase respond well to differences in volume and, we:fare, and, eventually, to give minoT- ther€fore, occasionally balance within the Last year, Wagner's budget was little ity groups guaranteed minimum in- group appeared to be ba~. , over $3 billion. This year, an election comes. That ay the mi'dd!e cl . 11 Duet Featmed Budget Increases ., . w ' · ass \Vl The third movement included what was ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 135 ERIE BOULEVARD Boulevard Bowl DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Galaxy Review: An Inspiring Dratna • • • one M the moot beautiful sounds to be found in the entire eV'ening. Early in the movement appeared a duet b&tween the violin and the 'cello. The violinist, Mad- ame Montserrat Cevera, and the 'cellist, Marcel Cervera, responded as if they and By Don Schwartz theii· instruments were one. The entrance of the O'ther violinist, Luigi Sagrati, did n()t interrupt this shared sense o.f beauty. In the fourth movement, as well as in the encore \Dondo the pianist, Pier Narcisco Masi, demonstrated grace and fluency while never losing the delicate balance with the strings. This was es- pecially noti·ceable in the encore while the strings p·layed pizzicato and the piano had long, fluid passage•s. Successful presentation of the Brahms relied on the musicians performing, not as a group, but as one. Individual prow- ess had been demonstrated in the Mozart; true group being was shown in the two Brahms works. RITZ REST AU RANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring 32 AMF BOWLING LANES Fine Food and legal Beverages HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -, $1 - BONUS COUPON - $1 KENTUCKY FRIED CHICKEN 1 GOOD TOWARD PURCHASE OF ONE BARREL OF KENTUCKY FRIED CHICKEN - REGULARLY at $4.95 Good Until Nov. 15 • For Union College Students Only! 1 I 111 PARKWOOD BOULEVARD PHONE 393-3631 .1 ...,I ------- ------------ 118 • 120 JAY STREET .....•. ················••&••·············4····· LARGEST SELECTION OF CAMERAS IN THE CAPITOL DISTRICT Dark ltoom Supplies - Jewelry - Gifts _: Hi Fi EquipmenJ Open 11 A.M. to 9 P.M.- Sat. 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. 1957 FOSTER AVENUE - Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 Days A Week CORDUROYS- Tapered Ivy Model • WHEAT • LODEN • BLACK Sizes 27 - 36 5:95 CORDUROY DUNGAREES Sizes 28 - 38 4.50 WE CASH YOUR CHECKS

4 Friday, October 15, 1965 I Letters to the Editor Publtshed Fridays during the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na- tional Advertising Representative: National Advertising Service, Inc .. College Publishers Representative. 420 Madison Ave .• N. Y. C. Eldltorlal Office. Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, Sche· nectady Print lng Company, 602 Broadway. Entered in the Scbe· nectady Post Of.fice as Second Class Mall Matter. Subscription 15c a t•opy: $11 a year delivered anywhere in tho United States. SENIOR BOARD 13.\HilY :-;r;w~I.\:-; 'G< JEI•'FHI~Y SPECTOR '6<; 346·9959 ............. ·Editor-in-Chief . ~i'i-9884 ......................... Business Manager: RIL'HAHD SIFTON 'Bii ... • .. 346-9730 ... ~!anaging Editor MARK KASOWITZ '61. ... .............. ... . .............. News Editor ROllt:ItT STOLZllERG '6;.. . . .. FPalure Editor ANDY COLR '67.......... ...... .. . ............. Svorts Editor PAL'L SHERWIX '67 ........................................................................... Literary Editor ARNOLD KATZ '60 . .. . ....... .. ........ Consulting Editor MATTHE\V KATZ '67.... . ... .. . . ......... .. .............. .. ............. Page Editor . HE:--:1\Y l•'EHGL'~():-.' '~II l•'a<·ulty Advisor rvlurt} {-\,tlllZHll 'Li; ~·[art~· Btrosht>rg- '6S Donalll 8chwat·tz '67 ............. . Robert H.osenH1al 't3 7. Jmwph };IHtt't\r 'ti; Stev ... ·n Arkuff '1;-;\ William Lasnilt '68 .. K.t.>nnt>t h Bousquet '6 8 .......................... . ,\::;sisl'anl :-.:~ws Editor .... .A~soC'iate !'\PWS Editor .......... Aeslstant Literary Editor . ................... Subscription Manager .. National Atlvertis!ng Managei\ ......... Circulation Manager ................ Associate News Editor ....................... Photography Editor Viet Nant Day The protest on campus, like the epidemic insanity of war in Asia, is an epidemic objection, allowing for greater consideration to feelings than to the fallacies of argument. The passionate plea of a student who is convinced he is correct, to a crowd that is concerned but uncommitted can have little more than a charismatic message. However, a restrained discussion, among men who are committed to nothing but the ultimate resolution of conflict, can be far more successful in influencing the makers of policy. The teach-in has emerged as the only intellectual ill forum for fulminations against the government, countered m by Washington's retorts. These marathons serve to define ~ the conflict even more sharply, though, and usually end in I sleepily shredded tempers just as common to the demon- ~ stration. The ineffectiveness of these large scale protests ~-~ at major universities may be an indicator that small scale ~.: ___ :_;_~_i_, studies at the level of a school like Union could potentially ~ .. be more informative, more sane, and more fruitful, in rais- ing the debate to a higher plane. Union and other colleges like it have normally kept to themselves, rarely venturing into the arena of political wrangling. The immediacy of current challenges, however, are necessary to stimulate the student and maintain the alertness of the academician. Science education would stagnate without active campus research. In the same sense, a school can stagnate by taking no part in, and to a great extent virtually ignoring, the significant movements of our time. We may have a unique contribution to make, instead of remaining mute amidst the uproar. The failure this week of admiliistration forces to win repeal of Section 14 (b) of the Taft-Hartley Act was a gratifying demonstration of the Senate's higher regard for principles than for patronage. Repeal of the section would result in the nullification of \right to work\ laws in nineteen states. Such laws secure the right of an employee to retain his job without being compelled to join a particular union. Organized labor considers these regulations a major impediment to universal membership, and prefers to ignore the right of the individual to determine for himself whether or not he will choose to join a union. Lyndon Johnson is a friend to everybody, especially voters. There are hordes of voters in organized labor, all waiting for George Meany to tell them which lever to. pull at the next election. Thus, Lyndon is particularly friendly when it comes time to woo the unionized worker. He is being exceptionally kind to labor groups in the case of 14 (b), w bile the worker who may not want to join a union is deftly purged from mention in the President's benevolent propaganda. The inability of Mike Mansfield to muster even ma- jority support for a closure motion indicates that some senators, unlike the administration, may have been strick- en by an ailing conscience. There are many shaky pro- visions of the Taft-Hartley Act which need tightening, and the President might be more successful at an over all revision of the law than at utilizing it as a political expedient. Campus Calendar Weitz ••• • Friday, October 15, 1965- (Continued from Page 2) The decisdon of Henry aru:l Mau- 8~30 P.M.-NAACP State Convention; Memori.al Chapel 8:30 P.M.-The Galaxy Players-\The Queen of the Rebels\ Nott Memorial rice to live together seems some- and motivatiorus. Throughout the what startling-, even shocking, al- book Henry and Maurice and thoug·h perhaps nort more so th!Ul Sarah are swept along in the cur- thei'f con>tiruued friendship. And rent of their lives, trying blindly Maurice, who hattes God, says (instinctuall;y) to solve problems, finally, \I put my hand on to make deci-sions, to win a battle Henry's arm and held it there; they :are fore ordained to lose, be- . I had to be str(}ng fo,r both of us cause nov ictory is possible for all· now - Oh, God- I'm too- tired of them. And so it ends accoro- and old to lea.m to love.\ Mauriee ing to Freud's clas-sic formu1a- - as Sarah always knO'W's, \who the end of life is always death. thinks he hates, and loves all the Perhaps the end of an ·affair, also. time.\ Saturday, October 16, 1965- 8:30 P.M.-\Queen of the Rebels,\ NO'tt Memorial Sunday, October 17, 1965- 7:30 P.M.-Vesper Services, Memorial Chapel 7 :30 P.M.-Foreign Student Reception-Hale House Stu- dent Lounge Monday, October 18, 1965- 7:30 P.M.-\M Finger\ meeting. Hale House Stu- dent Lounge MAMA BIANCiiiS Tuesday, October 19 1965- 11:30 A.M.-Convocation, Martin B. Ochs. Memorial Chapel 7:00 P.M.-Student Council Meeting, Hale House AMERICAN and ITAliAN FOOD COOKED TO ORDER Wednesday, October 20, 1965- 8:30-Convocation, \The Coach with rthe Six Insides,\ Lin- ton High School Thursday, October 21- 7 :30-Football Movies, E.E. 22 Friday, October 22- 7:00 and 9:00-Film Series E.E. 22. SUPERIOR BARBERSHOP 601 NOTT ST. (Across from Nott Gate) Specializing in Flat Top & Ivy League Haircuts YOUR JEWELER AWAY fROM HOME 428 State St. FR 4-0183 FERRO PHARMACY 1 575 N,ott Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 • Tuesdays and Thursdays Special HOMEMADE SPAGHETTI and MEATBALLS - $1.00 1135 Barrett Street *CONTACT COMPUTER MATCI-IED DATES * YOU ARE ALWAYS TWO-WAY MATCHED The dates you choose must olso select you. * ALL YOUR DATES RECEIVE YOUR NAME Women: your dates will call you. Men: your dates will be waiting to hear from you. *you ARE IN CONTACT ALL YEAR You are two-way matched with all new CONTACT applicants. All new matches are sent to you free. * YOUR AREA IS EMPHASIZED Priority is given to dates in your orea. In addition, you may receive exceptional matches from adjacent areos. Deadline for the first computer run: OCTOBER 27 (Skeptics are invited to walt for the 2nd, 3rd 1 4th, and 5th runs.} 755 BOYLSTON STREET BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02116 FOUNTAIN SERVICE ··-~ .. I ' l\ e I' .t ,. Friday, ~--- Lil Wi M speak Octobl ernE< Born Ochs w ton Ur since IE ~ istic cE of the of the :;tssigne \ 1951 a) til 195 covet·ec ·stories In Hl5 \ trave]e, in Arne dent. Ochs r. Alfred the Ne to 19~ Times l \ Ochs spoken bias ill many E •· southe1 sight i of gr< charmi ~-though an ear leaves strong dom.\ ~ As a he WI' agains1 forts t ,, the C:h ball le! in mar bis a1 h!lt~ g • = ReJ c The Dr. J< Fried, fessor ges, F Prof. ' ector Holbro Stud '

1965 \ adition to would ira- almost 60's' Hook. eXJlect year as it stration inte- rep- part of col- to pl'Offi· gma Chi Pres. ·~ Mau- some- al- so than And od, says on it there; oth of us too tired Mauriee \who all the .00 cent I . Friday, Ot;tober 15, J965 5 ~ ~------~--------------------------------------~----------------------~--------------------~---------------------------------------------- .. IL ,. .t • Liberal Southern Editor Will ''Speak His Mind'' Grad Record ·.Exam Slated· Fund • • • (Continued from Page 1} Martin S. Ochs, editor of the Chattanooga Times, will . For Nov. 13 speak at Memorial Chapel at 11:30 A.M. on Tuesday, October 19. His topic at the convocation will be \A South- The 'second factor is the method ern Editor Speaks His Mind.\ of soliciting the alum::ni. Pre·s- ently every alumnus in the ooun- • Born in Chattanooga in 1923,~·----------- Students in-terested in g-radu- ti'Y is contacted either .in person Ochs was graduated from Prince- a •tt ate studies should start planning or by telephone by other alumni ton University in 1947 and haE ommt . ee in their junior years for scholar- who are agents of the Annual since led a distinguished journal-· ships and assistantships. Fund. Pt·eviously mail solicita- e istic career. After a br ef tour· m·ll St d tt'on was emp·loyed· Mr Hol·bl·ook ,. U '\\1 Seniors who have definitely de- · ' · · of the London and Par:s Bureau: I' .. · · 'J estimate·s that \more than one of the New York Times, he was ' cided to enter graduate study and third of mail to alumni is dis- assigned to the Be. rlin bureau ir · F...,. 0 . ·~h 'Tear · have picked an appropFi.ate geo- · carded before it is read.\ The • 1951 and stayed at that post un- · 11 ' ~· ~ • graphic location should contact present type of campaign takes til 1952. During this t:me h. ; Dean Lockwood's offiC'l in the place in February, March and covered many of the .imp:-rtant Administration Building to apply April. The Annual Fund year ·stories of that cold war outpost. ' by October 29 for the Nov. 13 runs from July 1st to June 30th. I 1 05\ d · · 19fi9 h g·raduate record test. The next · n ·•. <> an again m · · · e T.h1's year a new committee has [' · d 'll b D 1 d t · 1 th h L t app 1cat10n ate w1 e ecem- \ trave e ex enstve Y roug a. l~een formed by the Faculty Coun- ber 10 for the January 15 exam. Pt·eparing Calendar in America as a Times correspon- ciL This \Committee on the dent. Freshman Year,\ with Professors Books Available The Annual Fund Committee is Ochs is the g-randnephew o Kevork Nahabedian and Patrick · preparing a Union College calen- r. Alfred S. Ochs, the pub isher .of Kilbum as chairmen of the Sci- Two bQoks, availruble at the dar which it will mail to each the New York Times from 1878 ence and Engineering program Reference Desk in the library, alumnus. These calendars will be to 1935 and the Chattanooga and Humanities and Social Sci- list and give information about available to students in late No- Times from 1896 to. 1935. en :e program respectively, has the many awards; A Guide to vember at the Bookstore, at a Opposes Segregation be~n formed to propose next Graduate Study, edited by Fred- nominal :price. \' Ochs is and has been an out- ·year's new freshman program to . eric W. Ness, published by the ============== spolcen ('r:tic of segregation and the Faculty Council. ·American Council on Education, bias in tt..e South. One of his The new curriculum will con- Washington, D. C., 1960, tells manhy admhire:s state~, Ochhs' \. · · sist of 8 courses in comp1•ehen- how to prepare for graduate tit!on. Different agencies and \· sout ·ern eritage gtves· im in- 81 ·ve educatJ'on. Two courses will study, how to select a school, · ht · t · · th th universities sponsor many sci- Slg m o a regwn m e · roes be common to al:l freshmen and gain admission, and how to fin-· of great change. Witty and two to all Seniors. The other ance the studies; Fellowships in ence fellowships. Rev. Dr. E. Hawkins To Conduct Vespers ~ gle family res·idences, and new The Reverend Doctor Edler G. housing projects. Hawkins will lead a community. He is a native of New York \'esper se,rvice in Memorial Chapel City and was graduated in New 7:.30 P.M. S~nday, ~ctober 17. 1 York's. public sl'hools. He gradu- Doctor Edler 1s the. i·ounder ~nd ated from Bloomfield College, the pastor of the Samt Augustme 1 . Bloomfield New Jersey and Presbyterian Church of the hoLds hoi;orary deg.rPes ' from Bronx. , . . . I Bloomfield College; Jamestown The. ~ mon College Chr1~tian' College, North Dakota; Park Assocwtwn and th.e A.l:bany I 1:es- College, Missouri; und the Inter- bytery sponsor this free serv1ce. Amei·irnn University, Puerto The Reverend George Isley III Rico. of the First Presbyterian Church of Valatie \Vill lead the Respon- sh·e Reading and the Reverend Alfred Aiegel of the Loudonville Presbyterian Church will read the Scriptures. Founded Chur«!h Dr. Hawkins founded the Saint Augustine Presbyterian Church ;n ce:1tral Bronx with nine mem- hers after his o1•dination from the Union Theologica;l Seminary in 1938. His present congreg'a- tion numbers over 1,000, is multi- racial, and multi-lingual. His church ministers to a neighbor- hood of rooming houses, old sin• Dr. Hawkins is presently u member of the Bronx County Hy- giene SociPtv, chapllti·n of Lin- coln Hospital, and a member of the board of direc·tors of the Un- ion Teological Seminary. FRESH:\I_E:,\; ARE URGED TO CARRY THEIR STUDENT IDENTIFICATION CARDS FOR PRESENTATION WHEN EN- TERI~G A FRATERNITY PAR- TY. EASTERN AVE. PIZZERIA charming, he loo-ks at the news r·out• wt'll be opti'on courses .taken in the Arts and Sciences, edited 1 . · th htf 11 d •th d All national award app ICahons ; t · oug u · y an WI an eye an during the s·ophomore and junior' by Robert Quick, e~ghth edition an ear for tl1e humor in it. He years, being cll05'en from a di-· :published by the American Coun- are due by January. Students leaves no doubt that he ·is a vision other than the student's. cH on Education, 1964, lists with Neow York State teaching 860 EASTERN AVE. • ·• • strong believer in human free- major. fellowships and' oppol'tunities for and Herbel't Lehman fellowships dom.\ c 'tt \\ b · smnmer studv. ot As an example of his courage, ommi ee u~em ers ~ must apply to a New York State h t t . . d' 1 The members of the Science Several Awards d t h 1 'th th . te e wro e a s mgiDg e 1toria and Engineel'ing program, work~. gra ua e sc oo w1 e m n- against the Ku Klux Klan's ef- I'ng wi'th cha· 1 1 ·man N~·habedian, . . h tion of teaching. f t t I b b 11 t · \' There is great diVersity in t e ·or s o P ace a ase a earn m are Professors C. D. Schwartz, d · f 1 ,, the Chattanooga municipal soft- J h available awar s. Prestige e - Dean Lockwood ·states that all Robinson, Russ, Panlilio, · o n- lowships carry the same amount ball league. This is but one time son, WI'l·li'son, and P~terson. f b t h W d students, \can afford to apply to · · h' h h h h \' o money u more· onor. oo - m many m w !C e as s own With Chairman Kilburn in the. row Wilson awards are based on any one of these if you have the 10% off for Union Students! WE DELIVER Phone 393-0870 fer the Finest PIZZA his antagonism towards such Humanities and Social Sciences l . l . t f'll t th. f \ h;1te \'roups. highly se ective nationa compe- patience o 1 ou e orms. , \' program are Professors Bradbury, --~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~~~mtlmmmiiimmiiiiiiiiiiiim®fimim~~~ Hansen, Gati, Hart, Huntley, and Hoadly. Religious ••• Continued from Page 1 The statement was signed by Dr. Johnson, Prof. Christopher Fried, Prof. BTuce Clements, Pro- fessor A. Van Vranken Des For- comm~ttee were: Jeff Ratner, president of the Student C<luncil; A1 Nahmias, president of WRUC; Barry Newman, editor-in-chief of Concordiensis; Da1e Schneider, president of the Campus Religi- · ous Council; Al 8tarr, chairman of the Student Tax Committee; Jack Seifert, president of the sen ... io·r class; and Dick Corrigan, pres- ident of the sophomore class. . g-es, Prof. Raymond Eisenstadt, Prof. Thoma,s Hoffman, and dir- ector of Development Stephen Holbrook. \ Students meet;ng with the • Zero in on the world with the trusty New York Times Have The Times delivered every morning at low college rates. For service, get in touch with: ROBERT A. SEEFRIED BETA THETA PI 21 Union Ave., Schenectady, N. Y. Phone: FR 4-1771 • Toronado will get you if you don't watch oUt! Don't look now. But a keen machine called Toronado has designs on you. Out to get you with a new way of going-front wheel drive-that puts the traction where the action is! Extra stretch-out room for six. (Flat floors, you know.) Full-view side windows. Draft·free ventilation. Many other swinging etceteras! Like we say, Toronado has designs on you. Or is it the other way around! LOOK TO OLDS FOR THE NEW! : 'tQ_RONA.OQ .. tiiNQV~j;ICHT• DELTA 88\ DYNAMIC -.1;18 • JETSTAR· $$\ (:UT'l,ASS • F~~s • VIS.7A·CRI,IIS£R • STARFIRE • 4•4·2 '··:·' ···--·.· ---- -· ' :,::'.''\=l:i'd.'i·:aw,m,s;·IVI Cl B I LE ~ftEA~-~~-;~:;·t~~;~h~-~-HERt- THf:. ACtiON IS • .,. SEE Yilllft LOCAl, AUTHORilED OLDSMOBILE (lUALITV bEALER TOD'AYI

. (( COtiCoidjt· SpOrts ·BRAHMS REVIEW Page 2 Page 3 GALAXY REVIEW . . (~ Dutchmen Trounce Rochester, 35-14; Thinclads Out Run; Ramich, LaPorte, Hitchcock Star 1 Beavers, Ring Lose . (,---- Vol. 95- ==============· The Union harriers lost to undefeated Oneonta 27-28 in their \ (j Continued from Page 1 Last Saturday, the Dutchmen not only foWid that they are not only capable of breaking records in the homecoming contest, they fcmnd that they can al~o win the defensive victories. Eight Records Snapped The Garnet did both on Alexander Fiefd as they devastated R0chester, 35-14. The victory earned the Garnet a total of eight individual and career record6, and gave the Dutchmen their sec0nd win in three starts. Ace quarterback Tom Hitchcock smashed seven records himself in the 35-14 tilt as one of his key rl'c<'iv<'rg, Mm·c- Hurlbut. !'Pt a <'areer rnark in passPs received. Hurlbut, a G-foot, l-inch senior end from Bel- mont, Mass., hurled in five passes Saturday to beat the career· mark of Gl set last year by Art Marshall. The new record is 65 and will be in- creased earh time Hurlbut l'atrhes a pass tllis S!'a~Oil. Hitchcock's Recovers Senior quarterback Hitchcock will be adding to career records also-in passes attempted and com- pletl'd, passes thrown for touchdowns, and total yardade. He has completed 202 of 407 passes in his three-yeat· histot·y with the varsity foot- ball team. He has g-ained 2382 yard's and has thl'Dwn 19 touchdown aerials. The Syracusan also broke two of his own game records: most passing yardage in a game, :305 yards, and most total individual yardage, 20G yar·ds. The quarterback also tied his own mark of three touchdown, passes in one game. Co.ach Flood find·s it difficult to point out his team's weaknesses in the easy Roches.ter victory. If anything was wrong with the team, he said, the defense didn't move as well as it should have.\ F·lood also pointed out that the offensive line, the aspect which caused him most concern earlier in the season, is shaping up very well. JIM RAMICH, wltose 70 yard run sparked Satur- day's \'ictory over Rochester averages over 5.0 yards per carry as the Garnet's running halfback. The 35-14 victorv marked the first time Uni•on has \VOn by as much in three years. It also was the most decisive win over Rochester in 26 yea:rs. Tomorrow's contest will b€ broadcas-t from Troy srtarting at 1:30 p.m. over WRUC Radio. It is the 63rd meeting batween Union and R.P.I. since 1886. Union has won 46, lo'st 12, and tied 4 in the series. Last rear the Garnet had no trouble with the Engineers, handing them a 27-3 los.s. Origin of Dutchmen's Shoes TO:vi MORGAN (66) and JIM DENITTO (73) hustle to bring down the Rochester offense. .~ . . . tion had taken place on both campuses during the '48 game. Union won the trophy in 1949 and has retained it ever since, with the exception of the years 1957, 1958, and 1959. The trophy, whose home has been the Field House for the last six years, <\onsists of shoe·s mounted on a pedestal. The rig;ht-hand one is garnet with a white \U\ and the. one on the left is cherry-red with a white \R.\ The Dutchmen's most decisive victory over Rensselaer came in 1916, when the Dutchmen won, 45-0. They came close to that three yeat•s ago in a 44-6 tilt. R.P.l. has suffered no bad defeats this season, but the Enginee1's kirk off tomorrow with a 0-4 record. They lost to Nichols last Saturday, 12-8. Union-Rochester Statistic!' Union ----··-· 35 Rochester ______ 14 UNION -··-··-·---········- 14 7 7 7-35 ROCHESTER --- ·-····-·-····-· 6 0 B 0-14 RUSHING Attempts Ramich ----------------------24 Hitchcock ---------·--·-------- 3 Clemens -------·-----·------- 6 Hrdlicka -------·--·--·-·----· 1 UNION TOTAL -·--·-----------34 ROCHESTER -·-----·--·--------52 PASSING: Net 171 10 21 1 203 228 Ave raga 7.1 7.1 3.5 LO 5.9 4.4 T.D.'s 1 I 0 0 2 2 Attempts Comp. !'let T.D. 's Hitchcock -----------·---------41 24 305 3 Utecht -----·--------·--·---·- 1 1 9 0 Pizzica --·-----·-·---- -------- 1 0 0 0 UNION TOTAL ----------------43 25 314 3 ROCHESTER ·-······-·---··--·-13 5 RECEIVING: Caught LaPorte ----------------- ··-··-·· ____ 9 Ramich ----------------------------- 5 Hurlb~ ----··----··-·------··--·-·-- 5 Williams ---------·--·------·- .. -·-- 4 Dill -------------------------- .. ---- 2 UNION TOTAL -----·------·--·· ____ 25 ROCHESTER .. ----·--·--·--···-···--· 5 SCORING: 37 0 Net T.D.'s 136 2 ;9 1 ;6 0 49 0 14 0 314 3 37 0 l.D. 9 5 Ccnv. Points Ramich ------------------·------·-----2 D 12 LaPorte ----------·-····-·--·--·--·-··-2 D 12 Hitchcock --·----··--·-·-··-·-··------·1 D 6 Hrdlicka ---------·--·------·--·--·----0 S 5 UNION TOTAL -------------·----------5 S 35 ROCHESTER ---------·-------- -·- ------2 2 14 TEAM TOTALS: Union Rocflester first Downs -----------------· 25 18 Rushing yardage __ ... _,., ________ 203 265 Passing yardage -------------- 314 37 Passes --------------------- 25·43 5-13 Passes intercepted by -------· 2 4 Punts ---- -------------------· 0 4-32.0 fumbles -------------------- I 2 Yards penalized ------------- 75 62 Union Faces Rival RPI, SU Beaten The Union var8:ly 80~Ter team spli•t its last two games, beating Syracuse, 1-0, then losing to Mid- dlebury, 4-1. The record for tlte G:•rnet now stands at 2-3. l11 Saturday'::; ~:unt.:.:;t against · the Orangemen, the Dut~·hmen · played the :r hest first quartt>r of the year, according to Coach Ev- an::;. Bob Ng 'ang'a scored tl1e lone goal for the Gar·net on a ·tToss with Tin!! O .. i. Th .. Duteh- men attempted more than ten shots in that period, while the Orangemen could not even man- age a single good shot against Goalie Volinkyi. The defense be- gan to tell in this game as Dave Schmidt, Randy Kuhl, Greg Ol- son, and Darry Caye were out- standing for the Garnet. The offense, however, was not at full strength due to the loss of sopho- more Bob Seefrierl, the \hustling halfhack,\ whom Coach Evans described as having \staying pow- er.'' Middlebury Tough Before the Middlebury ga..me on Wednesday, Coach Evans stated that Middlebury would p1:0bably be the toughest team the Garnet would play all season. Middle- bury has scrimmaged the Univer- s:ty of Vermont and shut them out, 6-0. Last year, Middlebury conquered the Dutchmen, ,. 7-2. Middlebury certainly lived up tu its reputation, as it controlled al- most the entire contest in defeat- fi-rst contest of the year. The home meet was a thriller up to the finish, because it was not won until the tenth man finished. Sport- ing a 5-0 record, One<mta was a formidable opponent for the Dutch- Dl men to meet so early in the season. 1o From the beginning it was a personal duel between Union's Bil~ Beevers and the vi·s~ting Jim Dever. Dutchmen Dave Ring and Ne1l Campman, along With Oneonta's Al Pastore, added to the ex- citment of the contest. , Beevers led the field at the mile mark with a time of 5 :14. ' Rmg and opponent Dever were neck and neck only a yard behii.nd. Hot on their heals were Campman and Oneonta's Pastore, tied with 5 :30 after a mite. Beever's in Lead • G H • · The field of runners spread out l'apidly. After two miles, Beevers ' IS qi:l9) still had the lead, but he lost it soon afterward to Dever. Rmg was all alone when he ·Completed the first tw0 miles in 11:47. Campman (12:01) had fallen into fifth place trailing Pastore when li he passed this same mark. From this point to the end of the il.'ace the only changt> in the order of the fi r.st five was when Oneonta'~ The gr. perhaps 2 Davidson Pastore passed Union's Ring. The summary indicates the closene'ss oF the meet: • !: 1 , of Octob€ 1. Dever (0) .................. 26:04.3~----- -- president 2. Beevers ( U) .............. 26 :29 ~- Pastore (0) .............. 27:47 1. Ring (U) ............... 28 :00 5. Campman (U) .......... 28:12 6. Utter ( 0) .................. 28 :22.5 7. Ward (0) .................. 28:58 8. Hunt (U) .................. 29:03 9. Warner (U) .............. 29:15 10. Louis (0) .................. 20:25 halfbacks, resulting .in some poor offensive play. However, Greg Olson was excellent, as usual, on . defense for Union. Tomorrow at 11:00, the Garnet. will play its second away contest,· trying to even the record at the · expense of R.P.L While R.P.I. has been a \pushover\ in foot- ball in recent years, they certainly have not been easy to defeat in soccer. The Engineers have van- . quished the Garnet sixteen times in eighteen contests; there has been one tie. The Dutchmen last beat ti-t<' Engineers in 1961. 1-0. Refs Wanted muur· .5 ~-quirr §ltutt dear friel ·~ r Dr. Da • · 6 teen yea·J Neither raia his presic crisis ere :nor snow nor heat nor Liz ., 'lJ sea of pr1 left Unic dency of leges, six • \and the from $11 But e' not comp • 'knew Ca William l ment of • .· sentimen genuine 1 \Whe11 • 1 6 was in t1 ways firE I person < 1111' t. Huntley, someone ing the Garnet, 4-1. Tijan Sa'bh Anyone interested in officiating scored the Qn]y tally for the intramural football and basket- Dut~hmen in the first quarter on ball this fall and winter or urn- a pass from Ting Oei. Middle- pit·iug intramural softball next bury tallied one goal in each of . spring should ~;ontact Art Law- the four periods. There ·was a renee in his otfice in the Gym_ noticeable lack of organization All officials will be paid $1.00 a between the front line and the game. Profes ence and friend of repeated \If I VI e: f' son by o very inh lems an< 1 people.\ Famous Woolama _.1-;' ,~ Now Fully Fashione by can ever wrinkle h.i.s •: Dr. D~ I still rem; known rr •. the op1 wouldn't them in great on •: i I ·I To th stern an those w though 1 cold. HE included well. Throu always o see him. dividual Becau: arose tl dropped vidson 'V than Wh ing of t:h If Ca1 students ulty me fraterna one by {I always' chance. question: Press-Free i Post-Grads } 1 1 The D .<Lchmen's Shoes Trophy was established by a committee of stude111ts from both Union and R.P.I. in 1948, the day after considerable de'stl'Uc- ~~~----------------~ LORD JEFF-~·;;n· Nothing puts a crease in these pants where a crease j doesn't belong. They hold J their crisp, neat look hour after hour. No matter how often they get washed, they •i never, ever need ironing. Trimly tapered with belt loops and cuffs. Colors and fabrics for casual and dress wear. 65% Dacron® polyes- ter /35% cotton, $6.98.Fian- nels, hopsacking, reverse David: ulty and strengtll apprecia stated l amazing view. H had a g and,-at 1 Bowling Lou's Barbershop ..... ...... 4 Team #4 ......................... 4 Teddy K 's Tavern . . .. . . . . . 4 Team #7 ....... . . ......... 3 Team #8 ......................... 1 Dari-Treet ......................... 0 Team #3 ............................ 0 0 0 0 1 3 4 4 Mid,town Barbershop ........ 0 4 Down to Louis', Jet us go, Let the lager freely Yvw. A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State ancJ Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 The same superlative 100% imported lamb's wool you've enjoyed before-with the added ease and fit only full fashioning can impart. Your choice of luxurious colors. $15.95 nave's %quire ~ho~ · twists,Acrilan®acrylic, $7.98. 1 (SI ightly higher in the West.) 326 State St. Ph. 377-3061 Profe1 Davidso: son. U1 worked a week. side to l Back: preside11 pany de1 of Old-~

. (( I . . (~ Founded at Union College 18 77 . (,-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Vol. 9·5- No.5 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1965 PRICE 15 CENTS (j in their 11 to the d. Spor:t- Dutch- .DR. DAVIDSON DIES IN WASHINGTON; Union's Ring and o the ex• I ef 5 :14. ' 1 ({, LED UNION THROUGH TWO DECADES behind. tied with . .I Beevers 1 to Dever. f• His Warmth Recalled in 11:47. when li G the race, I : The gray and ivy walls of Union will be perhaps a little grayer n<JW that Dr. Carter Davidson has passed a way. The tragedy • . , of October 20 rests not in the loss of a past president but rather in the departure of a ~It · dear friend. •~'UP 1 Dr. Davidson guided t:he college for nine- • a111 • 1 · 6 teen years, taking office in 1946. During his presidency, he steered Union out of the crisis created by World War II and into a •• 'I! sea of progress. By the time Dr. Davidson left Union in 1965 to assume the presi- dency of the Association of American Col- leges, six major buildings had been erected • r, and the college's endowment had jumped from $11,000,000 in 1952 to $26,000,000. But even these tangible products can- • not compare with the feelings of those who ' knew Carter Davidson and loved him. C. William Huntley, Chairman of the Depart- ment of Psych0logy, best echoed these •r sentiments when he said.: \He was just a genuine human being.\ Willing To Help All • 1 \When anyone in the college community was in trouble, he knew that he could al- ways first go to Dr. Davidson. He was a person of great kindliness,\ continued 111 Huntley, and was always willing to help someone with a problem.\ Professor Harold E. Way, Dean of Sci- ence and Engineering anCl a close personal friend of Dr. Davidson for nearly 28 years, repeated these feelings: : \If I were to characterize Carter David- • • f' son by one thing, I could say that he was very interested in people and their prob- lems and went out of his way to help 1 people.\ •: Dr. Davidson never forgot a friend and I still remained interested in persons he had known more than twenty years ago. When •. the opportunity presented itself, he wouldn't hesitate in helping to place one of them in a responsible position. \He was a great <Jne to hold onto friends,\ said Way. •; Cordial Toward Students To the outsider, Dr. Davidson was a stern and apparently cold man; however, 1 those who knew him realized that, al- tt' though he was reserved, he was far from cold. He catered to his friends and this included members of the student body as •i well. ; Throughout his presidency, his door was i always open to any student who wanted to I see him. His interest remained in the in- •\ • dividual and what he c()uld do for him. Because of his attitudes, the saying arose that \there were more students dropped from the college when Carter Da- • vidson was called awa.y to the telephone than when he was present during a meet- ing of the Committee on Standing.\ .. If Carter Davidson was cordial to his students, then his feeling-s toward his fac- ulty members can only be described as fraternal. He found it difficult to hurt any- • one by dropping him from the faculty and always wanted to give everyone another chance. His loyalty to hieS friends was un- • questionable. I Jl rease in 1 Davidson cared strong-ly about his fac- ulty and they, in turn saw a great deal of strength in him. \The thing the facu1ty appreciated most in Carter Davidson,\ stated Dr. Norman Jollnson; \was his amazing tolerance of our diverse points of view. He could work wit:h a faculty which had a great deal of independent thinking ) and,-at the same time, he respected it.\ a crease hold hour tter how they ironing. belt and dress , polyes- Professor Huntley has characterized Dr. o: Davidson as \a terribly bard working per~ son. Union College was his life and he worked for it seven days and seven nights a week/' However, tllere was a lighter side to his life. reverse $7.98. West.) 377-3061 Back in the days when Dr. Davidson was president of Knox College, a movie com- pany decided to shoot a film based on Tales of Old Siwash. In order to do the filming, (Continued P. 2, Col. 4) Dr. Carter Davidson 1905-1965 Union Mourns Fornter Leader President Harold C. l\lartin olfered the following statement on Dr. Davidson's death: \The death of Carter Davidson stuns and grie\'es all who knew him here at Union College. His years of service have left an indelible imprint and his untimely passing deprives American col· legiate education of one of its most conscientious and generous leaders. Though I knew him for only a few months, I was deeply impressed from the firRt meeting by his fine democratic spirit and by his love for the college lte led for nineteen years. It is a sorrowful privilege now to be his successor. President of the Board of Trustees Mead Brunet had this to say of Dr. Davidson's passing: \I know all the members of the Board of Trustpes share my profound shock at the sudden death of Carter Davidson. In our years of close association he demonstrated his grasp of the needs of Union College in his unremitting devotion to this institution. Under his leadership the college weath- ered the difficult post-war years ex11anding its student body by almost one half and adding an im- pressive number of major buildings. More importantly, he strengthened the faculty and the student body immeasurably by his deep commitment to full participation by all m'-'mbers of the college fam- ily. As a trustee and as an alumnus of Union College, I am griev'-'d by the untimely passing of one who gave us so much of himself. To Mrs. Davidson and her family I extend our deepest sympathy. Dean Theodore Lockwood offered the following statement: \No man can head an institution for nineteen years without leaving on it the impression of his personality, and Union College today wears Iam·!'ls it earned under Dr. Carter Davidson's lead- ership. The list of his accomplishments here is long; but I know he valued two above all others. One was Schaffer Library, made possible by a gift from his close friend Henry Schaffer from Schenectady. The other was the Union College faculty as it stands today. All those who served under him will remember his wat·mth, his sensitivity. and his great personal generosity. In a real sense the college's present strength is his monument. On behalf of the Union College faculty, I offer our most profound condolences to Mrs. Davidson and family.\ Memorial Here Sunday Carter Davidson, President of Union College for nineteen years, died suddenly Wednesday evening while awaiting a bus to take him home after work. Dr. Davidson, who left Union last year to take over the post of President of the Association of American Colleges in Wash- ington, D. C., collapsed on the street after suffering an apparent heart attack. He was rushed to George Washington Hos- pital, where he was pronounced dead at 7:15P.M. He was sixty years old. Dr. and Mrs. Davidson had been sched- uled to be in Schenectady yesterday to visit their close friends, Professor and Mrs . Harold Way. Dr. Davidson was to give a speech at Elmira College, Elmira, New York, today. The last time the Davidsons were in Schenectady was for the inaugur- ation of Dr. Davidson's successor, Harold C. Martin. Memorial Service Sunday Dr. Davidson will be buried in a private service in Vale Cemetery. A college-wide memorial service will be held Sunday at 3:00P.M. in Memorial Chapel. The service will be open to students, faculty, and friends of the late former college president. Dr. Norman Johnson, Chaplain of the col- lege and a close personal friend of the Davidson family, will officiate. Mrs. Davidson has requested that in lieu of flowers, donations be made to the Carter Davidson Memorial Fund for Union College. As president of the 850 member A.A.C., Dr. Davidson represented educa- tional causes before Congressional hear- ings. He also made numerous trips to speak at forums on education throughout the country. Assumed Presidency After War During his long term at Union, Dr. Da- vidson was instrumental in transforming a struggling, 'War oriented college into a vital and progressive liberal arts institu- tion. When he assumed the presidency in 1946, he met an entering Freshman Class of unprecedented size, 306. This figure was more than four times the number that en- tered in 1945. By the time he had left Union the number of students had grown from 800 to 1200. The faculty also in- creased in size from fifty-two to 139. Growth in manpower was only one of the many changes which Union College saw during Dr. Davidson's presidency. Four new dormitories were added to the physical plant. Schaffer Library and Me- morial Field House, two much needed structures, were built. The market value of the college increased from six to thirty million dollars. Dr. Davidson's interest in providing the best possible education for those whom he- served gave impetus for the search for new ideas in the field. Under his leadership the curriculum and calendar were re-ex- amined and attempts toward revision were initiated. Besides his devotion to education, Dr. Davidson was an ordained minister of the Congregational Church and an interpreter of poetry. He co-authored several books with Louis Untermeyer and was a frequent contributor to magazines and newspapers. Many Outside Interests His interests branched out into several fields of education. He was founder and the first chairman of the Empire State Foundation of Liberal Arts Colleges, a co- operative fund raising organization in New York State. He also served as chairman of the Independent College Funds of Amer- ica, a similar organization on the national level. Dr. Davidson had been president of the National Association of Urban Universities and was a trustee of the Carnegie Founda- tion for the Advancement of Teaching and of the International Mass Education Move- ment. He was also the first chairman of (Contnued P. 2, Col. 3)

2 Published Fridays during the school year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na- tional Advertising Representative: National Advertising Service, Inc .. Furthur Tributes From DEAN POLLOCK A .great many people in the academic world have cause to mourn Carter David- son: students, faeulty, deans and pre.si- !ents. He was friend, mentor, counselor, and :placement direotor for thousands of people throughout the nation. He was a particular friend of students, always Friday, October 22, 1965 THE DEATH OF DR. DAVIDSON Service ... (Continued f1·9m P. 1, Col 4) the College Committee on the Disad- vantaged, sponsored by the New York State Association of Colleges and Uni- versities and the state education depal't- ment. Personality . . . (Continu,ed from P. 1, Col. 1) it was .neaessary to suspend classes for o1:e day. With an unexp·ected vacakion on their hands, Davidson, Way and two other professors went to play golf. College Pnbllshers Representative. 420 Madison Ave., N. Y. C. Eldltorlal Office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, Sche· nectady Pr.lntlng Company, ·602 Broadway. Elntered In the Sche· nectady Post Office as .second. Class Mall Matter. Subscr!:ptlon Hie a copy: $ R a year delivered an:rwbere in the United States. SENIOR BOARD · willing to listen to, and frequenLly solY- ing their problems. Dr. Davidson was born in Louisville, Kentucky, on September 23, 1905, the son of Dr. Harry A. Davidson and Vir- ginia Gaggs Davidson. He received an A.B. degree from Hal'Vard University in 1925, an M.A. the following year from the University of Louisville, and a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago in 1930. Meanwhile,. hack at the college, the producers of the picture, which was later to come out under the title of \Those Wer-e the Days,\ found that they needed a 'Second day ·t0 shoot a few scenes. Perr- mission to suspend classes for ano1Jher day had to be obtained from Davidson who vnts now busily engaged in a round of g·o!f. BARRY NEWMAN '67 ........................... 346-9059 ................................ Editor-ln·Chief JEFFREY SPECTOR '66 .................... 377-9884 .......................... Business ~ranager RICHARD SIFTON '66 .......................... 346-9730 ............................ Managing Editor My personal •sense of loss is gre•at, and I am sm•e that it is matched by tha.t of nineteen generations of Union MAH.K KASOWITZ '67 .................................................................................. NeWa Editor HOBERT STOLZBERG '67 ........................................................... FeMure Editor AXDY COLR '67 ........................................................ - ............................... Sporta Editor • College students, and •thousand::; of fac- ulty. He was a great man whose per- Several institutions had bestowed honorary degrees on Dr. Davidson. Among his awards we.re LL.D. degrees from Ripon Co lege in 1944, from Syra- cuse University in 1947, from Carleton College in 1949, and from New York l'niversioty in 1954. Dr. D:Rvids.on held Lit.t. D. degrees from the University of Louisville, Wagner University, and El- mira College. A shott ride to the golf course, a brief chase around the fairways, and educatO'l' and movie director were united on the fourth green. In a moment, the golf four- s--ome was .transformed into a faculty ex- ecutive meeting which immediately pas'sed a resolution cancelling classes for the following day and then continued with the golf match. PAUL SHERWIN '67 ................................................................................ Lltera.ry Editor Ait:>:OLD KATZ '66 .................................................................... Consulting Editor MATTHEW KATZ '67 .................................................................................... Page Editor • sonal humility was unbounded. He was a gentleman, a scholar and a friend. HE:>:RY FERGUSON '50 ........................................................................ Faculty Advisor Jl'NIOR BOARD )ftrrty Kumzan 'G7 . . . . ... ..... . .... Assist-ant Np·ws Editor 1-Iarty Strosb~rg '68 ................................................................. Associa-te Ne\VS Editor :·a··ph,·~t ( ;, ar,gt>l' 'li 1 ... .. . . ............ ······-············ ................. c 'unt ributing Editor Dr. Davidson beHeved in democracy, not as an abstract concept, but as a way of life. He believed that .it was an im- portant ingredient of higher education, even though i·t was sometimes ab1:1sed. I know of no tribute to him that would Donald Schwartz '67.. ......................................................... Assistant Literary Editor Robort Rosenthal '67 .................................................................. Subscription Manager JusPph ~hucter · 61 ........................ '\ .............................. 1\atlonal Advertising Manager . please him more than to say that HE BELIEVED IN DEMOCRACY. Othe·r of Dr. Davidson's honors in- clude L.H.D. degrees from Knox Col- lege and Hamilton College, an Sc. D. degree from Rensselaer Polytechnic In- stitute, and an LL.D from Williams. Untimely Death Dr. Davidson became personally in- volved with almost all the members of the college •Community, For years the famiMes of Davidson and Way would eat together on Sunday.s at one of their homes. Before his untimely death, Dr, Davidson had made plans to come up to Schenectady and stay with the Ways last night before his trip to Elmira. Stevc·n Arlwff '67.. ...... . . .. .... . .................................. Circulation Manager William Lasnlk '68 ................................................................ .Associate News Editor Kenneth Bousquet '6 8 .................................................................... Photography Editor Dr. Davidson Carter Davidson delighted nineteen entering Fresh- men classes with his pervasive baritone, and proudly sent nineteen senior classes into the world. Every moment of his term was devoted to the future fulfillment of the Union student. Few of us knew him well but he loved each of us and every facet of his College compassionately. Now he is gone, and we are bereaved. He left Union a short six months ago with the vision of still greater achievement, and lived to witness the in- stallation of his successor. He died but two weeks hence, his work at Union done. Clearing The Impasse When students find faculty members and adminis- trators standing in their path a good deal of noise is pro- duced but hardly any progress is ever made in clearing the impasse. This is usually because the students shouldn't be on the road in the first place and faculty who take up positions to thwart them are correct in their tenacity. Two weeks ago the Sophomore class found the pas- sage to Memorial Chapel blocked by Dr. Norman Johnson, chairman of the Committee on Religious Life. In this rare case the ensuing tumult persuaded Dr. Johnson and his committee to shift their weight after receiving assurances from students that their concern for the Chapel's well being would be regarded most respectfully by the student body. This was a breakthrough of no small proportions, for the students have shown that by pledging their respect for the Chapel, they become worthy of respect from the faculty. Intelligent discussion between faculty and stu- dents which actually ends in a happy medium is so uncom- mon that it will require very tender nurturing in order to flourish. The pledge of respect for the Chapel, therefore, is not enough. Every person who attends the Winter Week- end concert, or any other :Less sedate gathering in the Chapel, should enter with a sense of r.:esponsibility for pre- serving the beauty of the building, and preventing reck- less destruction. The future of faculty-student relations will, hope- fully, change for the better. A lack of good faith in this case, however, could check this movement and carry the student still further from a fruitful coexistence with his teachers. Official Poll Yale and C.C.N.Y. have announced that they will offic- ially poll student opinion of teaching proficiency in consid- eration of candidates for tenure. Last year, Concordiensis conducted a somewhat similar poll, the major differences being that Yale will listen only to graduates receiving hon- ors and the C.C.N.Y. poll will receive funds from the college. Our effort on the newspaper was difficult and cumber- some, and although we hope to continue the practice this year, some sort of official administrative mechanism would be far more efficient and valid. An accurate sampling of student reactions to various teachers would surely be of great value in making promotions and choosing new fac- ulty, and it is a wonder that some such device is not al- ready in use at Union, which is publicized as a \teaching\ school. 0. Edward Pollock Dean of Students From JEFFREY RATNER To the Editor: Dr. Davidson was married to the for- mer Capitola Gufl'in Brown for thirty- nine years. They have a son, Christo- pher, and a daughter, Cynthia. The Student Body of {.;nion College is greatly saddened by the sudden passing of Dr. Carter Davidson. We remembet' him as an educator and as a friend, as a man of the highest standards of char- acter and intellect. The career of Dr. Davidson spanned forty years in service to American edu- caJtion. Beginning as a high school in- structor in his home town of Louisville in 1925, Dr. Davidson dedicated his life to teaching and administering- in various levels of education. He taught English at the University ·Of Idaho, the Univer- s1ty of Chicago, and Carleton College before he was naaned Assistant to the President of Knox College in 1932. On the night that Ca1•ter Davidson had to make his decision to accept the pres- idency of Union. College, he asked Pro- fessor and Mrs. Way to come over to his house. \You know, I hate to leave.\ '·You'll make a lot of new friends,\ Way interjected. \Yes but I hate to lose my old friends.\ We, too, at Union mourn the loS's of a dear friend. At this sad time we dedica:te ourselveg to the ideals of democracy and humanity he so nobly upheld. We join together to extend our deepest sympathy to Mrs. Davtdson and her fam- ily. In 1936, Dr. D-avidson became Presi- dent of Knox College and, at that time, held the distinction of being the young- est colle~e :president in the country. He served as P1·esiderut of Knox until 1946, when he began Ms ninete€al. year rterm as Presidenrt of Union College and Chan- cello.r of Union University. Jeffrey H. Ratner Student Body Presidettt LETTER TO THE EDITOR \Moving Finger\ To the Editor: I should like to express my thanks to all those who have given so much of their time and patrence in the past two we·eks 1 in helping to found \The Mo¥ing Finger.\ If I am to single ~:mt ·anyone in particular .it must be Profe&sor Kilburn, wh:o has agreed to be our faculty adviser, and has offered a great deal of e>ncouragement, advice and help. The overall enthusiasm of the members of the faculty who at- tenrled the first meeting and ask- ed penetrating questions, and o( those who expressed a very posi- tiVe interest has ad-ded impetus bo make the original idea of a· few students a live entity. I must also ·thank the many stud- ents who came on Monday even- ir,g. Thanks .a}sQ to the commit- tee, especially Stephen Granger, the secretary, who has spent more time and energy than anyone else in doing the innumerable things necessary to get the soriety un- der way. There are many very able cre- ative artists of all kinds on this c-ampus. I-t is my very sineere hope that \The Moving Fi·nger\ -the tit'e, incidentally, is taken from Omar Khayyam-will serve to allow these men to meet, dis- cuss, aHJ e.xduwge ideas. l.t sim- ply does not make sense that two artists working in the discipline on the same campus S'hould not be able to compare and learn from one another's work. It is intended that all meetings, in- cluding those with a visi:ting speaker, should ·be as informal as possible; rigid formality has llU IJlac:e here. Aga·in, my sincere thanks to all those who have already shown real interest. We have · been fortunate enough to have had an exceHent start, and I look forward to sustained and increas- ed activity during the year. Sincerely, Robin Bell Flu Clinic The flu clinic will be held on Wednesday, October 27 between 11:00 AM and 1 :00 PM in Silli- man Hall. Students with colds or who are allergic to eggs should check with the nurse before being 1 inoculated. • • John Lauritzen wanted further knowledge w :~fi .. , He's finding it at Western Electric When the University of Nevada awarded John Lauritzen his B.S.E.E. in 1961, it was only the first big step in the learning program he envisions for himself. This led him to Western Electric. For WE agrees that ever-increasing knowledge is essential to the development of its engineers-and is help- ing John in furthering. his education. John attended one of Western Electric's three Graduate Engineering Training Centers and gradu- ated with honors. Now, through the Company-paid Tuition Refund Plan, John is working toward his Master's in Industrial Management at Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute. He is currently a planning engineer developing test equipment for the Bell System's revolutionary electronic telephone switch- ing system. If you set the highest standards for yourself, both educationally and professionally, we should talk. Western Electric's vast communications job as manufacturing unit of the Bell System provides many opportunities for fast-moving careers for electrical, mechanical and industrial engineers, as well as for physical science, liberal arts and business majors. Get your copy of the Western Electric Career Opportunities booklet from your Placement Officer. And be sure to arrange for an interview when the Bell System recruiting team visits Your campus. Wt!.sf~rn Elec:tricMANUFACTURING ANo suPPLYUNITOFTH/t BELL sYsTE'M/j\ AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYE:R ~ Principal manufacturing locations in 13 citiesOOperating centers In many of these same cities plus 36 others throughout the us Engineerina Research Center, Princeton, N.J.OTeletype Corp., Skokie. Ill., Little Rock. Ark.OGeneral Headquarters, New York Cit; •· ., • •• • •• . •• !I Friday, • Syn paren-ts This fal stve Edt \ of Com1= The by Prof. Comp E· • there ar• Presid u- leges ar his opin writes t to devel social , ~ changes schoGL lege doe changes 1 its educ looked b and wilol rate pla• '11 The P duction : the cha Lockwoc 1 and Hm len's \1 cerned ' underlyi osophy 1 • and pla of speci spheres and pru • This re' perhaps wood's tion is n it may' • worth p1 • A yea: (\A Me juxtapos 1795 {!UJ 411 presenta 'fhere is the pict• going 01 • commitn beside t sional C< to the I by Drs. • Here is, that will is tried), the new Sympc fled. Jw growing the artie • gram. i that Un either m· ed upon • main sta authors but their each ma program • not nece still, he f It is u Symposit stated b ' their th1 each am ali:ty loo can learr 9 ing the : dundanc~ the unit~ Comp Ed .:; f Sympo: Public R seccmd fie ·····:::·:-·(·.··· :=~{~it;mS,f;.x, w~ the c becat abou~ pare I eveni that face woul1 gued Nortl CO'llll not frien. powe ican thes Tl'l ly ga ists militl

2, 1965 N for two the Perr- on round brief n the four- ex- r the with in- of the eat their Dr, up to Ways nhad pres- Pro- to Way my urn 1946, term • '., ··-= ·>... both talk. b as for eers, and your an u.s. •· •• • ' ., Friday, October 22, 1965 Symposium Review: Blueprint For Comp. Ed. !> By .Stephen Granger Symposium is a quarterly magazine .published hy the Public Relations Department of the College and is sent mainly to alumni a.nd parents of graduates, but the most recent issue, Fall of 1965, is worthwhile reading for an:y student concer11ed with his future at Union. This fall publication of Symposium is a compilation of faeulty and administrators' thoughts about education in general and Comprehen- Sive Eduoation in particular, and is perhaps the ·bes-t reference book available for anyone desiring a general picture of the plans and ideals \of Comp Ed. The articles, all revolving about a there of \change at Union,'l can be divided roughly into catego·ries. There is an \historical\ article by Prof. Nelson, \How to Commit a Curriculum,\ that tells of the wallowing and foundering of the David,son Calendar .and the later rise <>f Comp Ed; there are excerpts from the proposed plan for Comp Ed (\A Means and Manner of Thought\) diagramming the program; and • there are opinions and thoughts of many of ·the men who ary trying to implement change at Union. Martin Gives Opinion President Martin, in \Ame1ican Ool- u- leges and the Winds of Change,\ gives his opinion o.f the role of the college; he writes that a college must be responsive to developments in knowledge, chang.es social and cultural orientation, and l' changes in the kind of student going to schoGL He goes on to say that if a col- lege does not keep a critical eye on these changes and does not regularly reorient 1 its educational energies it win he over- looked by first-rate students and faculty and wHl limp along as a second- or thhd- rate place. '. 11 The President's article serves as intro- duction for two other pieces dealing with the ehange intended for Union. Dean Lockwood's arti-cle, \Curriculum Patterns 1 and Human Experience;'' and Dean Al- len's \The Changing Major\ are con- cerned with the philosophy of education underlying the Camp Ed program, a phil- osophy that de-emphasizes specialization • and places emphasis on an integration of specific course material with \wider spheres of experience\ - human values and particularly the student's values. • This revised philosophy of education is perhaps best summed up by Dean Lock- wood's observation, \A college educa- tion is not essential to earn a living, but it may well be the prerequisite to a life • worth pursuing.\ • Best Statement A year-by-year statement of Comp Ed (\A Means and Manner of Thought\) juxtaposed w.ith a page from Union's 1795 eurriculum is the most dramatic 411 presentation of the change prlfposed. 'fhem is more real drama here than in the pictorial article about the building going on, for here are the professional • commitments of new educators standing beside those of past educators, profes- sional commitments that give authority to the personal commitments expressed by Drs. Martin, Allen, and Lockwood. • Here is, for all that it is worth (a worth that will not be known until Comp Ed is tried), the best statement available of the new brand of education. Symposium is, then, surprisingly uni- fied. Just as the cover pietures a lamp growing out of .a wall of ivy in daytime, the articles tell of hope for the new pro- • gram. All the writers state or irruply that Union is on the verge of choice: either meet the demands currently press- ed upon educational institutions, or re- • main stagnant and accept mediocrity. The authors are optimistic about Comp Ed but their optimism is not blind, for while each man expresses hope for the new program he realizes that change does • not necessarily mean improvement stiii, he says, change is necessary. Professor Neal W. Allen, Sherwood Fox, and Joseph Finkelstein discuss plans for the coming revision of curriculum. Drama Review: Joyce Revitalized By Robin Bell \The Coach With The Six: Insides.\ Presented by the Ca~>ital Area Modern Dance Council at Linton High School. This performance aroused once more the old pr!)blem of private l~nguages within art forms. Jean Erdman s monu- mental under.taking, in translating such a complex work as 'Finnegan's Wake' into terms in which it can be presented on stage, must be at least treated with respect. .A-t times it seems that Mi&s Erdman has devi~ted from J oyce•s text; there were moments when, 1Jhe action was defindotely situated in Dublin, there to indicate that it was J-oyce's Dublin, ratther than that of Behan or Donleavy. However, who would be so presumptuous as to define and confine the identity of Finnegan's Wake, which is what must be done before one can levy any accusations or improvi-siation. a eurious mixture of a tired .old woman trying to be young, a symbol of the pos- sessiveness of Dublin, and of the river Lift'ey drawing all things back to herself and destroying them. Shem and Shaun have a capricious blend of pathe>s and hilarity. The bantering exchanges be- tween the wife and the daughter are suf- ficiently well put over to prevent their inherent obscurity from l-apsing into dull- ness. Essence of Joyce • Ci Opinions Similar \stoty\ of the book runs tenuously througho]J.t. The action moves to cohe- sion and sense then drifts away into a world of no obvious meaning; the result is to inte:nsify the quality of dreaming. The dance itself had moments of real brilliance. The lyricism .1>f the rain dane~ moves into er()ticism; sustained, it is de- vastating. Other iS<>lated incidents which are most striking - it is hard to draw specifi:c examples from such a plethora of detail - are the mother's insane dance before the all-consuming river, Shem's contrasted quiescent madness, and the whirl of beautifully typical superstitious hish humour in the incident in the pa~k. The fun poked at the hypocrLsy af the clergy and 1Jhe ludicrous effects of the vag:vant-poet show that Miss Erdman really can capture the essence of Joyce. It is unusual that the opinions in the Symposium, so strongly stated, and stated by men in a position to effect ' their thoughts, are so simHiar. Still, each article presents a different per'Son- aHty lo()king at Comp Ed so a reader can learn something of the men propos- 9 ing the program. 'fhe result is not. re- dundancy, but a magazine that reflects the unity of the men heading towards Comp Ed. Symposill,m may be obtained from the Public Relations Office, located on the second floor of Wells House. Inherep.t Obscurity Indeed th,e play is a dream. The music inspired idea to set music to Joyce - .the brilliant, simple C(}stumes, the curious projected effects on the cyclorama, and t~e overall continuity of dTeam-li~e movellj.ent enhanced the effect. Characters and identities mingle, switch and assume a volatile nature; it is im- possible to establish many con'Sistent fea- tures. Anqa Livia Plurabelle herself is Entirely Laudable For myself, and I suspect for the ma- jority of the audience, it was at first dif- ficult to find bearings in the presenta- tion. I know of no stage producti1>n with which I can make a useful comparison. The entertainment value of the play is undoubted, its message obscure and its ambition and genuine originality and in- ventiveness enrtirely laudable. ·····::;·:-·r·.·· • • •• £. ,, ~ .... ,.~:~w-.·~.·.-u.-.-.~·.~.~'o~{;;,.,~._~':.>o\~~ .~w....,v.~w.vkNI.·.w;.w,Mfu'ovN.~ ~, ,.;..., .-..J::.: .... :: .. ~~~-~.:..;:.,~ :.,....,,.. •• ,.,J..,.:, ~~ ,.,.,.~.:. ... ~:.,, ,.,.,.,.,. • •• . . . . . .. . . . .... .-. .................. ' ............ ~ ...................... -~·· .~ ...•.. '\ ......... ~ ................... ' .. ~-~-.:-~~:..-. ..... ~ .... .:.::..::..,:.;::.~~~ • ! ) Faculty Column: Inside Walter Lippmann Walter Lippman has been very much the object of ridicule in certain quarters because hi's analy,ses and predictions about American policy in Viet Nam ap- parently have been proven wrong by events. Lippmann, of course, did predict that American troops in VietNam would face a quick military disaster; air-power would prove to be completely useless in gueriJl.a warfare, and the bombing of North VietNam could not interfere with CO'lllmunist ·supply operations and could not affect Hanoi's power; moreover, friendly and neutral Asiatic and African powers would be alienated by the Amer- ican Viet Nam policy and would flock to the support of Mao and DeGaulle. Predictions Disproved True, United States forces have rapid- ly gained the initiative and the Commun- ists have suffered severe political and military setbacks; true Communist China seem to be today more isolated than ever, apparently a \paper tiger\ even North Korea and Indonesia seem to consider with .leas awe. True, even in Lao·s, the neutralist government is forcing back the Commun~st~:>, now that North Viet Nam's suppo:rt is disappearing, and the Indian govermneJI't seems to think that Ameri- can presence in Viet Nam has kept Mao from tnva~ng India and starting World War lii. But these quite obvious dis- crepancies between .predictions and actual events should not mislead the naive ob- server into doubting Lippmann's per- spjcacity! \ Commmtists Fooled Anyone who knew Lippmann's prover- bial humility, as well as his utter lack of qualifications to di'scuss miLitary bae- tic·s and strategy, would immediately rec- ogndze that Lippmann would not, withoot g~od reasons, recommend a poolicy of re- :By Professor Alfred L. Thimm treat and surrender. Lippmann's moti- vation is much more profound! Ever since the CIA has discovered that Hanoi and Peking were under the impression that Lippmann represented th:e power- structure in the United States, he has been under instructions to advocate ap- parently idiotic and defeatist policies to lead Mao into a trap. Thi<> devilish strat- egy has workew completely! Tricked by Lippmann into believing that the United States was a \paper tiger,\ Hanoi and Peking had planned to make Viet Nam the scene of a complete American humili- ation, a clear warning of the future, aJ~.d \pourquoi mom·ir poor Sailg-Qn\! The plans and stva.tegy of the Commll.11- ists have failed, thanks rto the patriotism of W>alter Lippmann who d·id. not h~i­ tate to risk his reputation in order to save his country. Such patriotism qe- serves a Congressional Medal of Honor, not ridicule! ' Butchers Batter B,ard In Movie By Paul Rherwin Those who find Max Reinhardt's production of \A Mid- summer Night'·s Dream\ to be a travesty upon Shake- speare's play may derive a little comfort from history, which tells us that the piece has been travestied before (as operas), and frequently with results more lamentable than these. This Viewer's Reaction Let us translate this viewer's 1·eactions to this extrava- g>anza: Oh, Mr. Reinhardt, oh, Warner Brothers, and, oh, you supervisors, you adaptet•s to the screen, you manipu- lators of special photogra-phic effects, you herders of six hundred fairies through a maze of misty birches, you string- ers of long cables on which Oberon might soar with dan- gling legs until he disappeared a·bove the redwoods, you ballet masters, you sound-producers, you bringers of real- life owl!! and ravenB and turtle-doves and horseflesh into action, rejoice and he boastful! This is your triumph; it is not Shakespeare's; and y,ou white-liml::!ed, wel:l-trained, num- berless gesticulating fairies, we fear we shaH remember :you: we feel it will be harder from now on to believe in the felicity ·Of your first maker. The worst contradiction of the film, in fact, lie's in the way Warner'·s first ordered up a whole batch of fot·e.ign and high-sounding names to handle music, dances, general pro- duction - and then turned around and handed tl'tem such empty vessels as Dick Powell, Jean Muir, Mickey Rooney, etc. for actors. A second major contradiction appea1·.a in the whole production is .approached. For a while the pro- ducers will stand outside Shakespeare, handling earh line literally, with marvelment and awe. Then suddenly they will forget the play altogether and go Hollywood or else get inside it, impre>vising on it as familiarly (and justifi- ably) as they would with any mortal working script. Where they have arranged to forget the original is principally in the supernatural doings of the midsummer night where ·th€re are the fairies, Titania, Obet•on and Puck (Mickey Rooney, too HI-instructed and raucous to be given such pvaminffilce. Here situations are ·elaborated for a.ll they are worth,, regardlesi of the main play, like so many inde- pendent sideshows on a midway. Oberon's ensemble depar- ture, for example, must take up all of ten minutes, and yet right in the middle of it is inserted, for no earthly reason, the detailed seduction of a white nymph by a black sprite, James Cagney plays Bottom and Joe E. Brown plays Fluts in tonight's College. Film Festival offering, A MID- SUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM. she eventually 'Bat o.n his shoulders and disappearing down a black distance, weaving away at a fire symbol ·with her hands, wris1Js and fol.'earms. The necessity for some such figuration in oa p1ay .of thls type is obvious; but there is also a n~ed for distinguishing between fanta:sy and a Hollywood musical. Excellent Elfect 'l'he idea of the goblin orchestra - grotesque little fig- ures in masks - is by way <Y.f contra&t a tlfuch of what i·s needed. Introduced only occasionally, this effect is fresh, pleasing; it represents the imagination at work and it is worth all the brute mechanics, however elaborate, of set- tings, costumes, parades and spangled gauze shots. But where the film really goes along with Shakespeare is in all that play-within-a-play business of the homespuns, weavers, tinkers, cobblers o.f the city. Here the lines are surround!'d with ennugh matter ll> give them a bright and plaus.able real.ity. Ja.mes Cagney's \Bottom\ is parti'Cularly good, that is to- say whenever 1Jhe direction allows it to be; wh~mever Mr. Cagney is left alone and permitted to speak the line's which were written for him. Where the Fault Lies The clowns, the fotll' lovers, the king and queen of the fairies; and· Puck - the trouble with them lies not so much with them as with th:e perposterous notion that Shakespeare C'an be effective ·without words. The whole point about him i.s that he could produce any imaginable effect with words and with words alone, He could be funny, for instat11ce, as these clowns with all their gymnastics and there guffaws are not; he C()Uld be Ji.ght and. dry and farci-cal, as these tem- pestuous 1ov€11s never are; and he could make possible things not so held, he could give to airy nothings a local habitation and a name, as Mr. Rheinhardt's vast mechanisms complete- ly fail t{) do. Not only has the text been altered and rearranged; mo·st of it is cut out altogether, which means that the spec.ial distindion of Shakespeare's play, i.ts poetry, is ignored. And the pity of this is p~ofound, for more is signified than the loss of many lovely speeches. Something quite practical is lost - th'e capacity of \A Midsummer Night's Dream\ to be effective. Shake,speare i's for the ear, not the eye; to hear his fairies talk is to believe in them, but merely to see them maneuver in white rayon is to know that they are studio flesh and blood. The film, produced in 1935, is of historical value in that it was Hollywood's first attempt to bring Shakespeare to the screen. Whether or not this attemp.t was a failure is, how- ever, up to each viewer. Let all try this one on :for size in EE 22 this evening. 3

4 Dr. Kusch To Examine Contemporary Scien·ce .\ Ecumenical .. G etz Sidned O~fts a. ites: . . . :_,,, :.Presid~tial campaign. ~ · .. ·-· Not Stereotyped By Ted Kreinik Dr. Polyka:rp Kusch, a Nobel Prize winner, will ad- dress the student body on \The Values and Limitations of Science in The Modern World\ on Thursday, October 28, at 11:30. The convocation is part of a comprehensive series of lectures and informal meetings Dr. Kusch wHl hold on Thursday and Friday. Professor of Physics at Colum-~------------­ bia University since 1949, Dr. Kusch has been engaged in in- tense research in the field of mo- lecular and atomic beams in an overall study of molecules and their interactions. Nobel-Prize Winner In 1955, he, and Professor Wil- lis E. Lamb, now at Yale, was awarded .the Nobel Prize in Phy- sics. His work was described by the Roya:l Swedish Academy of Science as a \major advance\ in learning what goes on inside the atom, enabling scientists to cal- culate correctly the properties of some of its components. Mr. Kusch was born in Ger- many in 1911, and s·pent his youth traveling with his Lutheran mis- sionary parents in the Midwest- ern Start;es. He attended Case Institute of Technology in Ohio where he earned his B.S., after which he earned hoth his M.S. and Ph.D. at the University of Illinois. Program Scheduled' ·. ,. . . u.s. . Raciti Z 1 \There is . no one generalized f Weekend picture ·of the South,\ stated or . . . D ~~~· It. Ochs. Three years a.go in Mis- t./ J 'ICU teS sissippi Governor Barnett refus- . €·d to recognize United Nations By Robert Klomp Day. Hi:s successor, Jo-hnson, This Sunday, OOtGber 24, Union th h h t ll Dick Corrigan, President of The racial problem in the Un- even · aug . e ran on a s rong Co. ege wHl again host an Ecu- Class of '68, announced that the . d Stwt . \ h 1' . segregation platform, ha-s quietly menical Evening which will be l W k d Jte . es lS a s arp rea tty taken a much different tract, and held in Memorial Chapel at 7:30 entertainment for Fa.] ee en ' in to day's life,\ according to . 1 P.M. :~~ ··s~~t~t a~~ ft~~sist:~s d!~ !~eti~u~~d~;h!o~~i:g· srtee:hco~~ ~h: ~~:r~st!i:~s~~~i A:e~c:~ The Reverend Bertrand Fay of Quartet. · thought St. John the Baptist Church in vocat10n in Memorial Chapel. · · Friday ni\'ht November 12, Ian M 0 h · d't f th Ch t Cities such as New York have Schenectady will discuss the re- \' mr. c s 18 e 1 ' or 0 · e a • · 1·~st leaders who care ~·b· out the1'r· l f h I a.nd Sylvia will perform from 9 tanooga Times and grand n h v \ newa o t e Roman Catha ic 'H · · - ep ew cities. The whites have moved Church in .a sermon ti;tled \The P.M. to 11 P.M. in the .. uemoriat of Alfred .s. Ochs, the longtime Chapel. The folksinging couple publl'\·her of the New York Tl'mes to the suburb-s estensibly becau.se Ecumenical Myste1•y,'! Professor \' tl t f th N · from Canada re~order their fi·r.st and the Chattanooga Times. 1e percen age o · · · e egroes m Norman B. Johnson,; Director of album, \Ian and Sylvia,\ about the school system would drag Religious Activities a¢ Union For nearly a century Ame<rica ciown the level of education. The College, wiii exami:ne :b~e Protest- ·four years ago. had to.Id itself that it had no race real reason, Ochs said, was be- ant renewal in his:'·aermon, \Six The Stan Getz Jazz Quartet problem. It consigned all such . cause of \straight race preju- Trends in the J!}cumenical Move- wiH perform Saturday night from ideas to the .South. Long before dice.\ t \ 8 P.M. to 10 P.M. in the Memor- 1964 N Y 1 d Ph'l d l hi men · ' ew · or c an I a e P a, Oc-hs·. concluded by ·sa,.ring <that . :al Chapel. Getz, one of the faun- as well as Ch1'ca·go and many ·,y Wl 'lson to D .. · i~ect Choir ·· · tl t f · d' · d'f • rl.ers of the \cool school,\ is well other Northern dties, had \big · 1e ana omy o · preJU 1-ce 1s I - The · t]nion College Choir, di~ known for his recent Bossa Nova pxoblems, tensions and shame.\ ficult -to study. \All ignorance rected by Professor Hugh Allen albums wHh Brizillians Astrud Willing to Work is not common to the South. The Wilson, wiLl sing hymns selected Gilhirto and J oahim. Among Ochs said that contrary to South may well outrun the North from both >the Oa·thoHc hymnals G.etz's mo1·e famous pieces are James Baldwin, the Negro is srtill on human relations, for the Ne- presently in Memorial Chapel. , 1 'Girl From Ipanima,\ \One Note w1lliing to work in the existing gro really has no better friend The etend George Gagnon, Samba,\ aru:l \Desafinado.\ economic structure. Ba,ldwin was than the enli:ghtene-d wh1te in >the the · . Catholic chaplain Tickets for Fall Weekend will quoted as saying, \Nothing but South.\ ·a Union College, will givi:i -\ n\' ~n'n n\vt wee'k:. radical changes in political and ===========~= · ediction. =============. social ,structures could change Ectimen,i.-cal Evenings hav.e tak- Mov\ae Serl'es this,\ in his book, The Fire Next Room rent of $85 for double en placce in Memorial Chapel for Time; rooms, $110 for single rooms for trwo :Y-ears now. This Sunday's A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S · EcGnomic discrimination is Freshmen and Upperclassmen and service will hopefu1ly bring the DREAM will be presented tonight probably the mosrt; important fa.c- the Board Fee of $122 for Fresh- Protestant and Rbman Catholic at 7:00 P.M. and 9:30 P.M. in EE tor in the Negro revolt. It wasn't men for the second half of the participants to .. a closer under- 22. This film, based on Shakes- until 1959 that George Meany· current semester will be payable standing and ::\•espect for each peare's play, features many Hol- hit the Northern unions on dis- at the Business Office between other's faith.· lywood stars. crimination, Ochs continued, and the dates, MONDAY, NOVEM- Because of his reputation as a teacher he l'ereived the \Great Teache1: A ward\ from Columbia's Society of Older Graduates in 1959. Program, begun i.n 1956, to give undergraduaJtes a chance to meet (·· and talk with ourtr;tanding schol- ~1 ars who are also noted teachexs. ~'~-~-·,:*,:···,· i:.) Campus Calendar there is st:i:ll a big is·sue in the BER 1 THROUGH FRIDAY, NO- 'abor movement over c:vil rights. VEMBER 5, 1965, during the He cited -the many labor defec- hours of 8:30 A.M.-noon and from tions to Goldwater in the 1964 1:00 P.M.-4:00 P.M. Contributes to Journals Dr. Kusch is a cmtributor to numerous professional and sci- entific journals. He is a fellow of the American Physics Society and a member <Jf the National Academy of Science, The Ameri- ran Academy of Arts and Sci- ences, Sigma Xi, and Phi Kappa. . It is his association w1th the Phi Beta Kappa Societv that Lrings him to Union. The Soci- ety sponsors a Visiting Scholar FRANK FERRARO Wholesale and Retail fruits and Produce - Fresh Daily - Twice Daily on Campus 123 I CRANE STREET Schenectady, N. Y. Dl 6-1763 To this end, Dr. Kusch' will ;~ meet with Professor ·Board's Po- \\ litical Science class iljl.~ ·!.}:30-10 :30 ~~ ~~tle: : 3 ~~~l 30 304~n ,f~:r~::ti~~ ';:il.';;til_.:t._;·'·\t,.:_; will be informal and he will com- .:;:: ment on \The M'Oral Responsi- bi!ilty {)f the Scientist.'' He will ; lecture on \The ·Magnetic Mo- ~ ment of the mlectron\ or \The ~ Changing Sociology of Science\ ~\ on Friday at 9:30-10:30 in Bailey ~ Hall 304d with Prof~,s~orA_l8ona.s' r.;._:;'*:~-.':,':~~'_._: __ . class an again \':t 0, m ? Phy.sics 202. · ·: D'AMICO'S ! TEXACO SERVICE ' ! ; 1757 Van Vran~en Ave. Phone FR 2-9767 ; ~FREE COUPONf~NjrNfi'HN'INIJr-nr.~ CLIP THIS COUPON BUY TWO [l] MIKE'Sl GOOD AT ANY MIKE'S GIANT SUBMARINE SIOR~ OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 135 ERIE BOULEVARD Frlday, October 22: 1 Film: \A Midsummer Night's Dream\ E.E. 22, 7:00 and 9:30P.M. Sa urday, Octo bel' 23: Football: Union vs. Robart, Alexander Field, 1:30 p.m. Freshman soccer: Union vs. Hobart, at Union, 2:30p.m. Su day, October 24: 1 An Ecumenical Evening, Memorial Chapel, 7:30 p.m. Monday, October 25: . \The M6-¥1Rg_ Finger\: 7:30 P.M. in Hale House Student :·:.t:l!.Ounge. -:;tF.,ly Casting EX'hibit: Nott Memorial, 8:00 p.m. T1~~~d~y; October 26: , .. Philomathi-an meeting, Phi Beta Kappa rm. 7:15 p.m. VV~dhesday, October 27: , 'fr.esbman Soccer: Union v:s. Williston, at Union, 2;30 p.m. F,:<eshman Cross-Country: Union vs. Hamilton, at Union, '.'' :.. 3:30 j.m. Oross-Country: Union vs. Hamilton, at Union, 4:00 p.m. Thursday, October 28: . Convocation, Memorial Chapel, 11:30 p.m. Friday, Qc.tober 29: Film: \Pather Panchali\: E.E. 22, 7:00 and 9:00p.m. CAMPUS CLEANERS . Opposite Union College NOTT STREET Down to Louis', let t.~s go, Let the lager freely '\'DW. ,. ' DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages I 18 • 120 JAY STREET ' • ' • I ' •• ' A ••••••••• I •••• ,4, A 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 ..... A • 6 ' • .+, '., 4 • June Qwck START A CAREER IN BANKING BANK EXAMINER AIDES SALARY $5,800 hn • LIBERAL FRINGE BENEFITS WHILE YOU TRAIN . J.C~u,g • PROMOTION OPPORTUNITIES TO OVER $20,000 .. NO EXPERIENCE NEEDED -IIIII Just file your application by Nov. 12, 1965 to start your career July 1, 1966 F'OR FURTHER INFORMATION FILL IN COUPON BELOW AND , MAIL TO NEW YORK. STATE BANKING DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL OFFICE, 100 CHURCH STREET, NEW YORK, N. Y., 10007 I PLEASE PRINT Name~----------------------------- Address, ______________ _ -------------------------- Or contact Banking Dept. offices in Albany, Buffalo, Rochester or Syracuse. Boulevard Bowl r:· \A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere HILDRETH TRAVEL CENTER 1632 UNION STREET Schenectady, N. Y. 12309 32 AMF BOWLING LANES -· Open 24 Hours Daily- SNACK BAR ON PREMISES LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian- American Food . 1. l 1125 BARRETIT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-97 44 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 LARcf~ST SELECTION OF CAMERAS IN THE CAPITOL DISTRICT Dark Roon1 Supplies - Jewelry - Gifts - Hi Fi Equipment Open 11 A.M. to 9 P.M.- Sat. 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. 1957 FOSTER AVENUE 346-4238 TRAVEL- CUSTOM DEIGNED WITH YOU IN MIND AIR • SEA • RAIL • CHARTER BUS ~-EWEST LIJ~CH 72.5 Albany Street Specializi·ng: HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE DINNERS AND SANDWICHES TAKE-0\JT ORDERS · -.- Uh1on Students Favorite Spot - {.Serving, _Schfi!nectady Since 1921) • Open ·1 Days Per ·Week 6 A.M. - 4:00 A.M. ~.,..,..~......,.,., .. ,# .. , ........ ,......,.#~ --------------------------~ ; ) •' ·' c! Friday, ... __ _ Tl '~ ~ Se~ ·!·Co I ~ I I i A ne' , ter a1't~ I of Uni< 1 r Q bring t adult meeHng I October . ,. Hall. Offer~ at a nc series 1 • workshc S@tmd, 1 Mel Willi2 ' of dran is SlltpeJ three S se1·ve aE · •lard wi theatric: signed 1 nectady .. manage1 Schenec: pany. signed::: trol as • eraJ El1 velopme Theat: .ered: .by Robev· theatric.:: perience' tapes, B systems Playhou: Thea.ter. G J ( ~ (

1.965• sta.ted Mis- refus- strong quietly and to have their moved because in d drag n. The be- preju- that is dif- The North Ne- friend e in the double for and Fresh· of the payable between NO· the from ,000 007 NO A.M. Friday, October 22; 1965 ~- ~------------------------,-------------------------------------------------~r-----------------------~-------------------------------------------------- !Springstend Shoots 529; 5 ·~ Theatrical· Delphic Society Honors SC Ratifies_ I Team 4 In First Place . Seminars ·Twenty Nott Scholars Constitution . Cont nJence Last Monday, the Delphic Society honored Union College's Nott . Of Arts Club Rich Springstead paced Team Scholars for this year at a dinner given at the Ritz Restaurant. Also # 4 to a three point win over . present in addition to the Delphics and the Nott Scholars were Presi- 'The Moving Finge1:' held its Dari-Treet and s-ole ,possession -of : dent Martin and DE!'an Lockwood. first meeting Monday, October 18. f.trst place by sllooting 5,19 in the Before the dinner actually began, Richard Sifton, President of The new club was formed to de- Dutch Classic. The big trio also the Delphic Society, welcomed those present and addres•sed the N ott velop and foster the creative arts· enabled him to maintain his lead A new evening course in thea- Scholars, sayjng that this event was being held \in recognition of on campus. i'n the i•ndividual .race with a 184 ter atts is now offered as part your outstanding academic achievement ... for the past year.\ The constitution, which was un- avei,age. Jim Str.atton led the of Union College's pr0gram to To become a No.tt Scholar, a s1mdent must obtain an average losers wi-th 216-5::!5, vauHing him ~-bring the college <'los or to the index of 3.7 or b€<tter for two consecutive semesters and be nomin- animou·sly approved hy the Stu-· into the runner-up. position at d lt 't Th f' t dent Council Tuesday, provides a u commum y. · · e Irs ated for this honor by the Un1on College chapters of Phi Beta Kappa for \creative artists of all kinds meetirng was conducted Tuesday, and Sigma Xi. This year, twenty students were designated as Nott to meet, dd:scuss and exchange October 12, In Room 306, Bailey Scholars. ideas.\ Meetings are open to all •· Hall. Dean Spea,ks members of the college cornmun- Ofl'ered as a non-cre,dit course Following the dinner, Dean Lockwood gave a brief speech on the ity, but voting privileges and the For three Generations e 178 . Stores of 201 we1·e turned in hy Zach Van Voast of Team #8, which swept Mid-Town, and by Eric Carle of Team #7, which dropped only one point to Teddy E.. Gary Prevost paced Mid- Town with 536. at a nomina-l fee, t:he 10-lecture history of the N ott Scholar. Contrary to what many people believe,. right to ·stand for office are con- series functions as a seminar this honor does not date back to the days -of President Eliphalet Nott. ferred only after <the individual I 1 1 workshop in the theater crafts of. Honoring those students who have done exceptionally weH in the h d 1 . ed h t \ d 1 h · f1'eld of acade-m1'cs was the idea of Union's facul-ty members. The· as e IVer a s or paper or I soun , ,ig bng and make-up. . sample of his work. Meetings fhose . ) Meriwether to Supervise first de,signation of Not.t Scholar was made in 1957 .and this has been genevally include critids:m of the · continued ever 'since then. work presented. In addition, the Wl 'l·l·I'am _Mer. 1 ·.,·ether·, pr·ofessor At the conclusion of Lockwood's talk President Martin presented s ci'ety w'Il occas'o lly pub!'' 11 \ certificates for academic excellence to each of the Nott Scholars. 0 I· · 1 na IS ' of dramatics at Union College, In addition to honoring this year's Natt Scholars, Monday night works of general interest and is sLLpervisor of the course, and bring speakers to campus. tllree Schenectady residents wiU also witnessed the presentati-on of three other awards. T,he first of sel·ve as instructors. Robert Wil- these was an ·award given to that fraternity which had achieved the The meeting Monday was de- h highest academic index during the previou:s year. Phi Epsilon Pi voted ·to poetry. Several members • lard wi!I present t e aspect of captured this. honor with an index of 3.0!t2. <>f the club brought samples of. theatric-al lighting. He has de- The second award was the Step:hen P. Brown Memorial Trophy their work and read them to the signed the lighting for the .Sche- th b nectady- Civic Playhouse, and has accorded to \that fraternity which has the best record in scholarship, o er mem ers. \managed lighting effe1lts for the intramural athletics, and ·extracurricular activities.\ This was ob- ========~==== Schenectady- Light Opet'a ·Com- tained by Chi Psi. Registration for ma:ke~up tests pany. ·In addit:on, he has de- The final award of the evening, given to that fraternity which -to be given on Tuesday-Wednes- signed an electronic lighting con- has shown the greatest academic improvement during the past year, day, November 2-3 must be com- trol as an employee of the Gen- went to Beta Theta Pi. pleted at the Office of the Regis- · • eral Electric Research and De- A few conc1uding remarks by Richa;rd Sifton -ended what i's hoped. trar before three o'clock Friday, Who Know Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Uanriue B. Gran.bart & Sons 1 •3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY velopmen.tal Center. will he an annual occasion, the Nott Scholars' dinner. October 29, 1 965 . Theatrical make-up will be cov- · _____________ j_ _____ _:_ ________ _!.:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ered .by Louise Heinmiller, past Students To Attend · · of the make-up com- ·of the Schenectady Civic French Performance Playhouse, who has worked in Professor Alan Robel'ts and a 13Uinmer stock pr<>ductions, and· has contributed Ito both the Gal- group of Union students will see ax.y Players and the Mounte- an evening <>f French entertain- banks. ment at Willi.ams College on Robevt Bowlin will lecture on Thursday evening, October 28. theatric.al sound techniques. Ex- perienced in .the use of sound Players to Present Review ta,pes, Bowlin has designed sound The troupe of French playel1S systems for the Schenectady Civic will present a variety of poems, Playhouse and Nott Memorial Tllea.ter. songs and monologues in a review Course Open to All The course is open to partici- in coinmThnity school and church -dramatic productions, and . also to admirers of the thealter, · cinema, ballet, and modern dance, who wish to acquire a working owledge of the crafts of the theater. Interested parties should eon- tact the Union College Evening · for information. called \La Contra Searpe.\ Thi-s troupe of entertain€r'S, which travels around the country to var- ious university centers, promises to present an evening of \PaJ;is- ian sentiment, song and wit.\ The French department is planning to make anoiher trip in the spring to Williams College to see a major French work pre- sentation. Grosvenor Cloth Sure we have desk jobs. Desk jobs at Cape Kennedy, helping checl{ out the Apollo moon rocket. Desk jobs at an air base, testing the worldl most ~owerful jet engines. Desk jobs in Samoa, setting up a TV network to help teach schoolchildren. The most interesting desk jobs in the world are at General Electric. A rare edition ..• we are fortunate to have obtained an exceptional selection of suits in Grosvenor Cloth - superb English worsted -:- tailored in the South- wick natural shoulder. The availability of Grosvenor Cloth varies, understandably, from year to year- and is never very plentiful. When it's gone ••. it's gone • • . we do suggest immediate action. 4 - Jlalt.$' First, why not sit down with the man from G.E. when he visits campus. Talk with him about your goals. He'll talk with you about the hun- dred different avenues available at G.E. to help you reach those goals. (Have a seat.) l You may be working anywhere in the world, doing anything in the world. From marketing appliances like a new oven that cleans itself electrically . . . to designing a com- puter that's no bigger than a suitcase. 'ltogress Is Ovr A4t)sf lmporlimf 'Prot:luc:l Interesting problems. Important challenges. Real rewards, in money and opportunity. They're all part of holding down a desk job at G.E. Come to General Electric, where the young men are important men. GENERAL. ELECTRIC

) 4 C ··-- .. -.-.---.·--·------ .... a·--- .. oncor· y Sports Laporte Makes ECAC All-Stars Vermont, RPI Zip Past Gridders To Tackle Hobart Harriers, 21-35, 26-29 iGa.rnet To Face Hobart · One of the most versatile foot- ball offenses in the Independent College Athletic Ccmfer.ence is a~ good as ever and re·ady to go fo1 the Union varsity Dutchmer. against the Hobart Statesmen to morrow at 1 :30 P.M. on Alexan· der Field. The balanced combination witt· Tom Hitchcock passing, Georg< LaPorte receiving and Jim Ra- mich running is at the height of its career after the 48-14 vic- tory last Saturday over tlw RP, I·:ngineers in Troy. Meanwhile th€ Garnet defens< is hurting. Two first stringen are out and may be hard to re· place. Chuck D'Trapauo, an Al bany Phat·macy freshman defen· sive halfback, suffered a broke1 leg in Saturday's contes.t and i> out for the season. Defensive tackle Jimmy DiN~tto whose hant was broken in practice Tuesda:, will also have to be replaced. Co-captain linebacker Bob Di· Michele, who .sat out with an in- jury last week, is healthy and RICH CLEMENS, the other half of the Dutchmen's halfback at- tack, took a pitchout from line- man Doug Hl)ran on an RPI kick- off and scampered 71 yards for the score. ready to go against Hobart to- morrow. There was no doubt about where the Dutchmen's Shoes rtro- phy was going to spend its 17th winter after la.st Saturday's en- counter 1\\ith the Engineers of RPI. I,t \Vas destined to spend its sixth year in a row in the Mem- orial Field House when the Dutchmen spl\inted to a 48-14 tri- umph over the once arch-rival Engineers. The smashing victory the thirrl in four sta1·ts, earned the Garnet nine all-time records and a spot on the Eastern College Athletic Confet·ence All-Star team. Senior Wingb.ack LaPorte hau.l\ ed down a rec-ord-breaking 19 aerial tosses by Hitchcock and was voted to a position on the all star squad whiPh is made up of the l1est players from 144 small co-ttages in the East. TintE C.-;niEI' JEWEIEI'S YOUR JEWELER AWAY FROM HOME DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott St. Open Daily 10 to I A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. • 1 A.M. Vermont bea.t \Cnion 21-35 on~·>---~------- . Tuesday at a home meet that saw· . . Vermont's captain run off the m SI:IDbh, but now there W\~ 110 Tomorrow course and lose individual honors Beevers between them. Bi'l Hun' to Dutchman Dave Ring. a~d Jan: Warn.er were eighth and . Hopes for Union's first victory nmth, Iespectively. The Dutchmen will .attempt to m three meets were high at the Just before the four mile mark · break their losing streak tomorrow mile mark. Ring streaked by in Vermont's Stowell pa.sscd Un~ in an awl:ly game against Ho- Vol. 9.5 -I 1 ·~ Di: a hat 5:07. At his heels was the jon's Ring. ~towel} kept widen- bart. Coach Evans believes the , v~siting captain,. W·alt Stowell. mg the margm until he made a G;u·net have a good shot against Bill Beevers (5:18) and Campman wrong turn and ran Q:ff of the Hebart, but he adds that Hobart (5:26) followed in front of four course. By the time he got hack has -two good insides. The Dut~h- • .. \Man mu: Vermont harriers. or; again, Ring had run past him. men may even swi,tch to a 5-3-2 · As the race went into the sec- Rmg went on to hest Stowe],] by formation to bOlster the a;ttack. ond mHe, Vet·mont gaineu 23 seconds. \We must shoot more,\ com- world,\ acco Dr. Polycar:t: the liberal a ground. Ring still 1ed, but Beev- ments Coach Evans. Union de- . ·vocation. . ers fell to fomth and Camrman The freshmen won their first feated Hobart last year, 3-2. · ·' . to six:th. The turning point of meet of the year by a 26-30 score The Union varsity soccer team the contest was a.t the two mile ~yro,n Fribush ( 15:29) was th~ ran its losing streak to three ·mark when Beevers succumbed mdividual winner. Kim Bird games, as they dropped centests Dr. Kusch here ihrougt The profes ~ted that sci It 111/Ust rei e and must qt HALFBACK JIM RA::VIICH battles h.is way through a forray of would-be tackelers on his way to a S!l yard 'T. D. The last time Union wus repre-~',1-elies mostly. on halfback John sent~d on the ECAC All-Star ·M:architell. The offensive line is _veeldy team was against RJ'I stmng and big. ast year when Jim Ramich play· c h Fl d · ed an outstanding arne ..ts a so . oa~ ' oo expe~ts a lng day phomore fullback. g · ·~ffens1vely for the Dutchmen. The Statesmen have shown poor de- LaPorte's 19 receptions Satur- fense in the games they lost to :lay raised his own record of 14 H:amilton, Rochester and Alfred set against Alfred this seas-on He pointed out though tha; :md more t~an rloubled the old I R ol>art is <'apabl~ of godd de- record of mne set last year hy fense, as was shown eal'lier in Art Marshall. He boosted his .the season when they held RPI season total to another rec()rd ·to a net mshing yardage of-1? of 44. That broke Marshal1's 1 U · h ld 1 . ~­ record .of 29 set i.n 1964 L p te . mon o s. a s 1ght advantage '11 dd t ' th · a ~r over Hobart In the 69-year his- . WI a o e mar_k each tn:ne tory- of the s€ries. The Dutch- he catches a pass thts season. men have won 25 lost 23 d W . h . d ' ' an .rt only half of the seas-on :t.Je t\<vo. Ho]:)art has won the over, quarterback Hitchcock also 'last three against the Garnet set a season mark-passes com- with last season's score 19-13. ' pleted. His total is now 90 two more than he had in seven g'am.es :u.,lon 48 ________ .. R.P.I. 14-Fourth Game last year. RUSiilNG rushes gained lost Ji<n Romich 12 125 0 Other new maries set Saturd•a·y :Rich Clemens 10 75 7 n.I rom Hitchcock 4 24 0 were: ,, ost yards on p<lSSes in a '~ob Utrecht 3 6 o game-LaPorte, 447 (beat Art At lirdlicka 1 o o MarshaH's 327 in 1963. ~ob Grady 1 0 0 !Fronk Pizzica 1 0 t . Hitchcock extended the follo-w- UNION TOTAL 32 232 a cL R.P.I. TOTAL 44 178 31 mg eareer recor s: Passes at- 'PASSING allempted comp. yards tempted-438; passes completed Tom Hitchcock 31 22 237 -224; total yards gained-2619; Fronk Pizzico 6 2 9 touchdown ])asses-19. .~ob Utrecht 4 2 10 liNtON TOTAL 41 26 256 . The Union total of 48 points R.P.t. TOTAL 24 a 106 IS th·e most the Garnet has ever ·RECEIVING caught yards tds. d . George LoPorle 19 166 1 score agamst the Engineers M.<1rc Hurlbut 1 6 o The previous hi.gh for the Dutch~ Ji.,, 'Williams 1 30 1 men was in 1916 when they won Jil11 Ramich 2 40 o with 45. Sam Dill 1 10 0 1Ri ch Clemens 1 5 0 Though the records indicate AI Hrdlicka 1 1 o that the Union offense against UNION TOTAL 26 256 2 RPI II Jl.P.I. TOTAL 8 106 0 . was a· passing, the run- ·IJnion totals gain-1495 points-109 n_mg gan1e was at least as effec- ·O.ppononts totals gain-1321 points- 77 tr:e. Halfbacks Jim Rami-ch and ~Y periods: R_1ch Clemens, both juniors, co:m- . IJnion -------------- 14 21 13 0-48. hmed to collect most of the Gai'- LP.l. -----------·-- a o 6 0--14 net 224 yards rushing. Ramidl Halitlme-35-B ran 125 yards for a 6.8 average. RamiC'h also scored three of the seven Union touchdowns. Hitch- C'OC'k tallied the init1al Uni·on scort> in tht> first period with a. , one-yard plunge. Jim WilliaJns and LaPorte acC'Ounted for the ' othet· Union score on passes from HitchcoC'k. Place kicker AI Hrdlicka mt'\de nil but one of the €xtra point attempts good. The Garnet defense will have to hold off a strong running :at- tack tomorrow by Hobart which has one victory in four' starts. FERRO PHARMACY 575 N.att Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 • FOUNTAIN SERVICE Hobart does little passing·, ami '-------------..J \Parkwood Boulevard\ at Rilgby Rd., Phone No. 393-3631 to a foot injury and dropped out. ( 16:25.4) was third, Will Go-od- to R.P.I., 4-2, and Golga•te, 9-1. ' · After 2% miles, Ring held first win (16:~8.5) fifth, Mike Riley The Dutchmen currently own a by 70 yards. Campman was st111 (16:41) Sixth, and John Seac:Qrd 2-5 marie ence. Scient ttons, but, D ~Ion and soc muur 1 £i ~quirr §~np Neither rain nor snow nor heat nor Liz can ever wrinkle h.i.s Press-Free Post-Grads Nothing puts a crease in these pants where· a crease doesn't belong. They hold their crisp, neat look hour after hour. No matter how often they get washed, they never, ever need ironing. Trimly tapered with belt loops and cuffs. Colors and :fabrics for casual and dress ,.wear. 65% Dacron® polyes- : ter I 35% cotton, $6.98. Flan- . nels, hopsacking, reverse , twists,Acrilan®acrylic,$7.98. 1 (Slightly higher in the West.) 326 State St. Ph. 377-3061 (17:53.6) eleventh. . In the R.P.I. game last Satur- day, the Dutchmen were pl-agued » by a lack of ball control and a lack of aggressiveness in shoot- ing. The Engineer goalie made only seven saves. Tijan Sallah 0 i and J()hn Fuller tallied for the I Garnet. Bob Seefried returning from an injury, and Greg Olson pla;ying with an injured toe, wer~ , 1 Pt'atsed by Coa~h Evans. Union 51 trailed 3-1 but scored in the sec- ' ond half and put pressure on R.P.I. in the fourth quarter. How- ever, .there was a \hands-ball\ 9 penalty late in the final period against Uni·on, and the succeed- . Union su:ffered its second loss !n as man.y meets to R.P.I., 26-29, m Troy, last Saturday. The win boosted R.P.I.'s rec·ord to 3-4-1. Bill Beevers was the individual winner, completing the 4.68 mile course in 26:04.1. He beat the best the Engineers could muster by 34 seconds, even thQugh he ran 100 yards off the course. ~he freshmen also drop.ped the1r contest, 21-37. Myron Fri- bush placed second, rbouring the 3.44 mil-e course in 19:35. The only other baby Dutchman to reach the top ten was Bill Good- win (20:53). · Union vs. Vermont Summary 1. Ring (U) 27:30 2. Stowell (V) 27:52.8 3. Chainlreiul IV) 28:21.5 4. Jones (V) 28:24 5. Young (Y) 28:44.8 6. Ccmpman (U) 29:04.2 7. Morse (V) 29:17.8 8. Werner (U} 29:43 9. Hunt (U) 29:45.5 10. Baker (V} 30:29 Union· vs. R.P.l. Summary 1. Beevers (U} 26:04.1 2. Whitby (R.P.I.) 26:38 3. Bell (R.P.I.) 26:50 4. Ring (U} 27:04 5. Campman (U) 27.47 6. Young (R.P.I.) 28:06 7. Pasko I (R.P.I.) 28:10 8. Show (R.P.I.) 28.16 9. Worner (U) 28o51 10. Hunt .(U) 28:59 ing goal virtually iced the game for the Engineers. The Engineers have now vanquished the Dutch- t · men in seventeen of their nine- teen contests. Ag-ainst Colgate, the Dutchmen were handily defeated, 9-1. Lar- ry McFarlane netted the lone goal for the Dutchmen on a pass f1•om Tijan Sallah. Co'gate had excellent speed; its outside right competed in the 1964 Olympics It for Kenya. \They're the tough- est team we'll plav all year\ r.ommented Coach Evans. · Coi- gate defeated a perennial power- house, Penn Sta:te, 5-3. The Gar- net had five or six good scoring opportunities, but they could only capitalize on one of them. The 1 . Dutchmen could not fl'et off more than firteen shots while Colgate managed \about forty.\ All men, terms wilth mind is ·cap~ l!nd this fait ,t in unexpl Dr. Kusch still endemtc c-eience; scie1 are just as f it conquered. use we have Science hE ~;ua~littes of 1 is all too of.t and truth. r as he once \ ,;hat ·Science · to a very s \Man must use must be The histor ~ ua.li1:.ies ·of I wh~ch through scie exponential!~ li1ade possibl aistant futUJ science appl itself. \Tha to ha dealing 'V \Are we \even thoug: here to stay Jou cannot · Education. Kusch statec scientific in• Famous Woolama t Jiature ·of sc politicad life said Kusch, • He stated I more for th~ • <ness of ,sciez two way<s: 1 science in ·th of inter-reia .,1\'7 Now Fully F by LORD JEFF ~p~· The same superlative 100% imported lamb's wool you've enjoyed before-with the added ease and fit only full fashioning can impart. Your choice of luxurious colors. 15.95 PA_V_E_'S...,.. ' i~quirr ~ftop \Sci• vulgar, II~ The new r part of the number of st The t by co . General Ele in Phoenix, . New York C A person ' simply calls the telephon~ edges and v dicates wher type. The o program an answer alm~ the compute1 The langu: puter is calle to FQRTRA Two sessiom BASIC havE there will l exists. Until now puter, an I.1 ·hours a day modate all o in programi1 ects for ·ot: · aeaTch, and Plesums thE with four ti present one •,o handle ! programing The searc chine, whid times as f; ls present! even rented (Continu

0 Founded at Union College 1877 to omorrow nst Ho- the against Hobart e Dutch- 1 a 5-3-~ a;ttack. \ com- de- ·' 3-2 .. team three contests 9-1. ' own a Satur- Vol. 95 - No. 6 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1965 K.usch Explores Effects Of Science Discusses Man In New World By Robert Klomp \ \Man must become attuned to a science dominated world,\ according to the Nobel Prize winning physicist, Dr. Polycarp Kusrh. His remarks Wl:.'re directed toward the liberal a·rts student and teacher at yes-terday's con- ·vocation. · Dr. Kusch wiU continue to speak with non-scien.t:sts here ihrough his two day visit, ending this. afternoon. The professor of Physics at Columbia University posit- ;ted that science has two problems to overcomt! today. It mrust release man from the confines of superstition. and must qualify the rigors <Y.f nature on ma.n's exist- ence. Science has ihus far failed to uncov€r the solu- tiQns, but, Dr. Kusch stated, lack of progress in educa- ~Ion and sociology are to blame. plagued t and a All men, regardless O'f occupation, must \come to terms wilth -the world,\ said Dr. Kuseh. The human i mind is ·capable of detecting- the order of the universe, D 1 l!nd this faith in order stimulates the scientist \to seek ,t in unexplored systems.\ shoot- made n Sallah for the Olson, were , 1 . Union S 1 the sec- on How- nds-ball\ period succeed- game t e Dutch- eir nine- -1. Lar- • lone Dr. Kusch feels that superstition and hardship are still endemic in society. A new superstition surrounds c-eience; science has brought new problems with it that are just as formidable, if not more so, than the old ones it conquered. \This is thanks,\ Dr. Kusch said, \to the use we have made of science.\ Science has now become the object of superstit'on, of magic have attached themselves to it, and It all too of.ten thought of as the only source ·of wisdom and truth. Man •today is as uncomfoTtable about science as he once was about God. :Many edtlcated people feel ~hat ·Science has an esoteric existence, that it is limited to a very select few, the new order of high priests. \Man must learn that science is rational action, whose use must be determined by all men,\ said Dr. Kusch. JOHN AKAR DANFORTH VISITING LECTURER a pass gate had ide right Olympics tough- year,\ Col- The historic role of science to enhance the physical ~ .... N .. \\\'? ·of life has brought with it new hazards. Prob- whiJch science set out to solve have risen again, through science. Dr. Kusch used as an example the exponentially increasing world population whi,ch has been It fllade possible by •the acts of science; but in the not too distant future of the world, no mattel' how diligently science applies itself, will no ·longer be able to feed itself. \That war, pestilence, ·and now the bomb will return to haunt man does not .show the wisdom of man \tn dealing wiJth hls problems,\ he stated. John Akar To Speak Tuesday power- ~~> The Gar- \Are we to cultivate ignorance,\ asked Dr. Kusch, \even though knowledge can yield good'!\ Science is hel'e to stay, and even if you wish to destroy science, By Jim Koltz scoring ould only The , ·.you cannot be igp,orant <Of 1t. John Akar, head of the Sierra. Leone M;useum, dir~cto1· of ,the Sierra Leone Broadcastmg Serv1ee, playwnght, and actor will be on the Union campus November 1 and 2 as a D~nforth Visiting Lecturer. off more Colgate Education has a lack of empathy with science. Dr. Kusch stated that education should teach the value of scienti!ic inquiry with great perception ·to show the t e11ature of scientific enterprise. \We learn of American politica~l life not by taking six courses but by living it,\ , said Kusch, \And so we must learn ·to live science.\ On Monday November ·1, he will mee-t with members of the faculty' from 1 :00 to 2:00 P.M. in the Bailey Hall Coffee- Lounge. He will have dinnel' at Phi Delta Theta that evening from 5:30 to 7:30 P.M. Will Meet With Students He stated that \Nothing would prepare the student I more for the modern world than the continuing aware- • <ness {)f rSci:ence and what it is doing.\ This must W<Ork two wayrs: the non~cientist must 1earn to understand science in ·the outside world, and the scientist must speak of inter-rel·ationships between science and human rela- Tuesday November 2, he will attend a sociology dass and wt ll:SO he wirll give a convocation address on \The African Personality.\ After a .pres-s conference at 2:30 P.M., he will have informal discussions with . faculty members and &tudelllts from 3:00 to 3:45 P.M. m Hale House Student Lounge. . Mr. Akar's -campus visit is made possible by a proJect \Soience should be rendered intelligent to the vulgar,\ he said. (Continued on Page 6, Col. 1) ollege Using Computer Borrowed From G.E. By Lance Polya The two new teletype machines installed in the Electrical Engi- neering Building and Carnegie Hall are terminals of a new computer · system donated to Union College by the General EI.ectric Corp. This is part of a long-term proposal to increase computer facili- ties for the students and faculty, according to Charles Plesums, di- -\\'\'~'\'\ of the Computer and Data Processing Service. The new rel.ay system is alleviating part of the load caused by the large number of students using the old com- . The teletype machines are con- ted by communication lines to two General Electric 235 computers, onP in Phoenix, Arizona, and the other in New York City. A person using the new system simply calls one of the computers on the telephone. The computer acknowl- edges and verifies the caller, and in- dicates when it is ready via the tele- type. The operator then typ~s in hjs program and data and rece1ves h1s answer almost instantaneously from the computer hundreds of miles away. The language employed. by. th~ C?m- puter is called BASIC, which IS Slmilar to FORTRAN used in I.B.M, 1620. sessions in the understanding of have a}ready peen held, and there will be more ii the demand exists. · Until now, the college's sole corn- an I.B.M. 1620, was in use .24 a day and still could not accom- modate all of the work from students in programing courses, s•tudents proj- ects for ·other courses, faculty re- o· · aeaTch, and outside functions. Mr. · Plesums theorized that a computer with four times the capacity of the present one would be necessary just ~o handle students enrolled in the programing course. The search for such a new ma- chine, which must be up to 100 times as fast as the I.B.M. 1620, ls presently in progress. Since even rented compute~s are made w (Continued on Page 6, Col. 2) Josephs Will Rea£1 Poetry at Meeting Lawrence Josephs, poet and Profes- sor of English at Skidmore College, will be the guest of \The M<>ving Fin- ger\ in the Hale House Stude!lJt Lounge at 8:00 P.M., Mond.ay, November 1. Professor Josephs is head c>f a po- etry workshop at Skidmore. He will read new poems for a-pproximately 40 minutes, after which there wiH be a break and discussion period. The pos- sibili:ty of developi'I!g an arts work- shop with Skidmore and any other suggestions that might be bl'ought up will be discussed. The Moving Finger devoted to the work of creative artists, was started several weeks ago. To gain official membership in the organization one must present a short paper or a sam- ple of his works. Howeve·r, meetings are open· to all member •of the c<>llege c<>mmunity. At the la:st meeting, Monday, Octo- ber 25, Paul Sherwin read his own short story, entitled \A Death in the Family,\ which dealt with a private, personal death having . i~phcations about a greater, more s1gmcant loss. Aftel' the reading a discussion took place on \Private Language and Pub- lic Commun~cation.\ RPI Racks Up Their First Win By Alan Ziegler Tears descended down the cheek of the heartbroken student as the cold shrill of the fin,al whistle made it of- ficial-the football team's streak was over. No longer would headlines ::~cross the country bear sueh familiar statements as \40 straight for R.P.I.\ It was the end of an era. Yes, fans, R.P.I. has finally won a football game. After a drought which dated back to 1959, the Engineers de- feated Middlebury College last Sat- urday. Some R.P.I. students even• cheered the victory but they did not realize the consequences. There is some distinction, some class, some in- dividuality, in losing 44 straight. Now, however, R.P.I. will sink into obscurity with thousands of others who \win some and lose some.\ So laugh now, R.P.I. - you'll find out soon enough that you were better off before. Nation Shocked It was a bad day ror losers across the country who had once been able to identify with R.P.I., as week after week they followed the lopsided scores. They used to find consolation in the fact that ·somewhere there was some- one worse than they were. One tear- ful fan commented, \My total equilib- rium has been shattered, The only thing worse that could happed would be for the Mets to win the pennant.\ It was getting to the point where R.P.I. didn't think they'd ever win a game. The ultimate came when they lost to the Trc>y Pre-Kindergarten School in an unpublicized scrimmage. However new slide rules were do·nated by the alumni and they finally found the winning formula. A sigh of relief was heard on the Union campus as we no longer have to fear getting nation- al publicity as being \the team to lose to R.P.I.\ PRICE 15 CENTS Faculty-Student Forum Proposed to Facilitate Increased C·ommunication By Robert Freid Asweeping revision in the structure of student government is under study by a Student Council committee. The proposed community government would . c?rnpri~e repre- sentatives from the students, faculty, and adm1mstrabon. The group would be empowererl to make L~c Adas binding decisions subject to a pres- idential veto on a wide Yariety of non-'academic areas. Auxiliaries To Board The Interfraternity Council, at a meeting last Tuesday night, unani- mously adopted a motion that made available to the IFC Judicial Board two members of each fraternity. The two members will serve an auxiliary function in helping the Judicial Board effect college and IFC rules at frater- .nity parties. Authority Reenacted Although the Judicial Board has had the authority to enlist party-checkers, lhe mechanism has not been fully en- acted during the past two years. The unanimous support of the fraternity presidents at the Tuesday meeting en- abled the realization of the Judicial Board's full authority. The Judicial Board consists of three seniors and two juniors, who are elected by the members of the IFC. The board effects college and IFC so- cial and rushing l'egulations. Joe Sho- enfeld, President of Beta Theta Pi, is chairman of the board. Mark Levine and David Kasper are the other senior members, and junior members are Doc Benjamin, and Dave Sanderspree. Women guests are not permitted in study rooms or bedrooms ·at any time. Other social regulations inV'Oived are detailed in the Union College Student Handbook for 1965-66. A constitutional revision was also unanimously passed which will sep- arate the office of secretary-treasurer into the office of secretary and the office ·of tl'easurer. In this respect the government would differ from the present AH- College Council, which meets infor- maJ:ly to discuss problems rommon to the students, faculty, and adminis- traticm. The council neither makes decisions nor passes resolutions. The purpose of the community gov- ernment, said Dean of Faculty Theo- dore D. Lockwo·od, is \to provide bet- ter communication and a better op- portunity to consider issues that clearly concern the three groups.\ Means of Communication Student Council President Jeff Rat- ner called the tentative organization \an effective means of relating stud- ent opinion to the faculty and admin- istration.\ The program was proposed last year, hut it has not been stud-ied until this S€me•ster. The SC Constitution Revision Committee is now studying the plan. To become part of the con- stitution, the proposal would have to be passed by the .S•tudent Council and ratified by a vote of the student body. Two major problems ·confront the committee: determining what areas of jurisdiction the government should have, and deciding on the representa- tion od' each of the three groups. No decisions have not •been made. Neverthele-ss, both Dean Lockwood and Mr. Ratner predicted that the plan could be implemented this spring. Antioch ColJ.ege, Yellow Springs, Ohio, and. Kenyron Colleges both have similar arrangements. CANADIAN FOLKSINGERS, IAN AND SYLVIA Ian and Sylvia To Perform On Friday of Fall Weekend Ian and Sylvia, the Stan Getz Quar- tet, and a football game with Hamil- ton College will highlight this year's Fall Weekend, November 12-14. The Ian .and Sylvia concert will be Friday night at 8:00 P.M., while the Stan Getz performance will take place at 9:00 Saturday night. Tickets for Fall Weekend will be on sale beginning Monday, November 1, at $7.50 a couple. They can be bought from dormitory counselors and at all fraterndty houses. The choice of Ian and Sylvia has been well received on the Union Cam- pus. Currently they are the bes-t knc>wn folksong performers of Canada, and are among the best selling artists in the United States. They are part of the new wave of young folk 'singers whose love of folksong has vitalized and given the music new dil'ection in recent years. Known in Cafes American audiences first felt the electricity of the pair's performance less than two years ago, when they began making the rounds of the cof- feehouses, cafes, night clubs and col- lege concert circuits that comprise this country's folk music media. They had previously enjoyed immediate success in •their native Canada where they met for the first time. Ian Tyson, born in British Colum- bia in 1933, had been one of Canada's foremost folk performers fol' some time before he joined with Sylvia. (Continued on Page 6, Col. 1)

2 <nnurnr Published Fridays during the school· year by the Student Body of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Na· tiona! Advertising Representative: National Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishe<s Representative. 420 Madison Ave .. N. Y. C. mdltorla.I Ortice.- Old Gym-:-uniiih College, Publication Office, Sche- nectady Printing Company. &02 Broadway. Entered In the Sche· nectady Post Otflce as Second Claaa Mall 1\!at ter. Subscription 16c a copy: U a year delivered anywhere In the United States. SENIOR BOARD UA!Ut 1 :-; E:\\' .:I!A:>; . ti ;. 3!G -99&9 .. . .. ..... Ed! tur-in-Chief JEFFHEY I'I'ECTOH 'GC ....... _ 377-9884 .. .... . . . Business ManageJ RICHARD ~IFTON '66. .. 346-9730 --·- ................ Managing Editor MARK KASOWJTZ '67 . ... .. . . . ... .... ... . . .............. News Editor ROBERT STOLZBEHG '67 .................................................................. Feature Editor A..NDY COLH '67 .......................................................................................... .Soorts Editor PAC'L SHERWIN '67 ......................................................................... Literary Editor ARNOLD KATZ '66.. .. .. .. Consulting Editor MATTHEW KATZ '67 .................... Page Editor HENH Y ~'EHt.n::;o:-1 '50 . . ............... ................... .. ................... Faculty AdVlBU .Jl'SIOR BOARil ~~~~rt~ .J~nnu:an · ti7 A·ssifitant News Edltol ~!arty !\tro•llprg '68 .... Associate NE>ws EdltOl _:4tt·Piwn n1 Hn~t·e '6tl ...... Contributing ~ditt' Donald l'chwartz '67.. ........................................................... Assistant Literary Editor Robert Rosenthal '67 ............................................................. Subscription ~lanager JosPph Sha«'tt•r '07 !S'ational Advertising Manager Steven Ark off '~7 ............. Circulation ],:Ianager W!lllam Lasnik '68 .. . ............................................. .Associate News Edllo, Kenneth Bousquet '68 ....................................................... Photography Editor Cotn~nunal Living The teacher's concern is with his students. His daily effort is directed at the betterment of their minds, and his life-long studies are consummated only if the knowledge he gains can be useful to others. The student's chief concern, on the other hand, is with himself. In his egocentric universe, every moment is aimed. at his own aggrandizement, and this attitude is usually altered only after his education is complete. In this light it is strange that the student has tradi- tionally been unconcerned with the quality of his educa- tional experience. The maxims set down by the instructor are passively absorbed, and the intense student who takes rather than accepts his learning is a stimulating but scarce commodity. In recent months, rumblings within various student bodies have indicated a shift toward correcting this ap- parent incongruity. At C.C.N.Y., at Yale, and at several other colleges the student is demanding, and being given, a Yoice in determining to some degree the nature of his education. He is venting his dissatisfactions, expressing his hopes and offering his plans for collegiate improvement. Most significantly, he is being listened to by faculty and administration. The proposal for creating a Community Government here has the potential for putting the Union student into the forefront of this trend. The idea of a joint faculty- student l€gislative forum :providing for administrative im- plementation of Student Council actions could, at last, make student government functional. In establishing a means of communication between students and faculty, the new plan could ultimately give the student an effective voice in the planning of his education. The system now being contemplated by the Student Council is likely to meet with opposition from some faculty who prefer as little contact as possible with the student. The teacher must realize, however, that his ability to com- municate with his pupil forms the underpinning of his profession, and that the ability to understand the attitudes of one's audience is essential to purposeful communication. Here is an opportunity to give the students a re- slraincu ruke in influenci.J.lg some faculty decisions, and a chance for faculty to pass upon, and even join, certain stu- dent endeavors. The proposals, if carefully developed into a feasible constitution, have potential for integrating the action of every facet of this community so that our two separate spheres may move in concert toward the com- mon goal of mastering the higher disciplines. An Astute Work The \Daily Princetonian\ has published a guide to the characteristic markings of female college students which may rival Audubon's Birds of America for skill and thoroughness. The book will prove indispensable in the collegian's eternal meanderings through the maze of staunch institutions designed to secure and protect young innocents of college age. This astute work, however, might evoke an uneasy reaction from many readers. As one progresses through the length of hair at Bryn Mawr to the angle of the up- turned Vassar head to the dirty trenchcoats at Radcliff the realization slowly emerges that these same tendencies are present at men's schools - and to an even greater degree. The Princetonians have smugly observed stereo- types at other schools without fluttering a buttoned.down collar, but they may soon be made sharply aware that the girls can be smug right back. What are the characteristic markings of the \Unionie\? The answer could produce a rude awakening here too. New Samples Treat Five Personalities 'Yes I Can.' By Sammy Davis, Jr., and Jane & Burt Bo-yar. Published; Fa1·rar, Straus and Gimux, 1965. 'The Wit and Wisdom of Adlai Steve11so-n'. Published: Hawthorne, August 1965. 'The Blasphemers: the theatre of Brecht, Ionesco, Beckett and Genet.' By David I Grossvogel. Published; Cornell, 1965. By Robin Bell After the initial rush of text-book sell- ing, the Campus Bookstore is now libera-l- ly stocked with new ti-tles of both aca- demic and general interest. A random selection of three of these produced two books of very great interest and one which is quite the reverse. Stevenson 'The Wit and Wisdom of Adlai Steven- son' is a messy uncoo1·dinated little book which does nothing to enhance its sub- ject's reputation. The book is badly planned and carelessly co-mpiled; it has no introduction, no index, ·and no chap- ters, or any apparent sections. The pho- tographs a·re dull in composition, tota]\y lacking in key or caption and add little to a mediocre text. At best Stevenson is shoV'.\ll to have a tum of phrase with a less than Franklin- ian pith: at worst he seems. either tri•te to the point of perility, or opaquely hys- terical. Quotations are taken quite out of context and consequently appear to be neither wit nor wisdom. Inctuded are a seemingly endles's string of remarks on communism, most of which are irrelevant and all of which are facile. The few occasions when a glimmer .of the genuine personality of Stevenson shows through make the book even more frustrating, since they suggest that some- thing worthwhile could have been written if the compilers had had the patience and gumption to do so. ;t:***** Sammy Da.vis, Jr. In contrast, Sammy Davis, Jr.'s book has a real appeal. Despite its Dostoevski- like proportions, it is fast moving and carries sustained interest- It -lacks the warmth of a genuine -self-narrative - inevi:table with 'ghosted' autobiography, and reads mo-re like fiction. There are plenty of photographs, excellent studies of the showman being balanced and set off by 'family album' illustrations. Davis has been involved in show busi- ness all his life and the narrative re- solves around his rise to succe'ss. He avoids being smug or self-congratula- tory, indeed tends to go almost too far the other way, not to the point of self- pity but to overplay the early hardships of his career. There is a human quality and genuine personality in Davi's; he is a man as well as an institution. His opinions are worth listening to, and his experiences - espe- cially his career in the Services - are worthy of note. However, despite the general acclaim with which it has been met, I doubt whether this will ever be a top priority oo anyone's reading list, but it i.'s far more interesting and less mundane than most ghosted· books. * * * * * * 'Blasphemers' David Grossvogel is nt>t just another critic leaping on a popular bandwagon. His is a serious, clearly written book, well balalH:ed and specifiC\ b).lt not dog- matic. It is definitely better than the accu&tomed wooly speculations regarding these four playwrights. He deals with each writer individually, the connecting theme through the book being that of th•· wr!t•·r :u; an a·ggn,;~o1·. He sees Brecht's theatre as a class- l'oom whose lessons depend on a cumula- tive increase uf knowledge and under- ;:tanding. Taking the themes of commit- ment and 'verfremdungselfekt' (estrange- ment) in Brecht, he develops his analysis along thoge lin«:>~. _The pToblem here as he sees it is the difficulty of witnessing. The authm· makes a lucid and valiant cffott to get to grips with Ionesco's the- atre of defamiliarized object's and the oneiric world. At times Mr. Grossvogel has an uncanny knack o'f interpreting and verbalizing succinctly the intentions of the playwright and the reality of the play itself. Take for example his remark on the function of Ionesco's props·; 'Be- cause these objects - eggs, furniture, brief cases - are familiar, they do not adumbrate satisfactorily the irrational, but divert the attention of the spectator to the simple incongruity of their pro- liferation, a misdirection encouraged by the fun-poking that subverts so much of these plays.' It is quite an achievement to whi:rl through Beckett without becoming bogged down in obs<:urity. The salient points are presented with a near-infuriating clarity and apparent lack of effort. He approache's the works with no- precon- ceived .ideas, and, despite the brevity of his analysi:s, is by no means superficial. In dealing with Genet, the temptation to momlize, or revel in, lurid details orf private life i-s avoided. The author takes whatever he feels is relevant from the personality and background of this blas- phemer par excellenee and applie'S it in relation to his work. This is a studious, well-written per- ceptive criticism, and of value to both specialisrt and laY:man. ., Friday, Oct~be.r 29, 1965 ,-•. . ... Fri~ay, C ,.Jaz: Th~ S()meor '\tries to ' . 1-isk of f simplifyil hear Whil l -common!~ wewiJl Cl be sure, B ('olor and: · . .as in any j ~ creativity mony. Melody ·to go- tog1 I itself whi ticuiar s1 I melody n an instru played wi notorious harmoniz1 ton€s pla sounds w is the str purposes is familia \You're something special, Susie, so I'm calling you from the only booth in the area with a door.'' . Baez. W ures, she she is at guitar (c lyrics. If • guita.t· as the pecul tutes the ··, 'Pather Panchali' In a sician Is · originally criticism ;be makin~ \Pather Panchali\ (Song of the R(}ad\) is a film of great visual beauty and qrnite as great naxrative delibera- tion. It is a motion picture whose praise must he given in pa,stel adjec- tives: sens~tive, rleJi.cate, lyTic. Rarely does a movie so effectively underline its own be·auty. It even succeeds with the old shots-the lily pads, the drops of wind blowing gho~t S>hau~Jws acrosl:l the r::uin making rings in the still water, the ree1l·s. Dominant Camera Shots This quest for camera ma,terial, this yearning over the faces (admittedly vf'!ry beautiful) of the performers, slows tht' action to the stalling poirrt. Almost every shot starts from immobility and the esse111ce of poetry is repetition. Yet, this funereal pace perfectly suits the mood of the piCJture; it ~omplements the aura of unrelieved and unresisted mis- \Pather Panchali'' investigates the workings of the minds of children suclt as these. They are portrayed witlt sensitivity and perception. ery. The story is the kind in whieh a strapping girl of sixteen, having been caught in a sudden rain ·squall, takes to her bed and dies ·of pneumonia; the kind 1n \Vhich every pathetic flutter of gaiety or promise is slapped to the wall by the fla;t hand of disaster. It reaches a podnt when you wince if any.one smiles. The rice ha,s given out, the wa11s are fwlling in, feckless f·ather ~s off somewhere chasing the illusion of a job and the ri.ch la11dlady greets the woebegone family w1th sneers, ir<mic requests for payment and accusations of petty the:ft. Certainly, I don't belittle such sor- rows, ()r doubt :that they are as preval- elllt in India as anywhere on earth; I recognize that the picture is fi:lled with tender and accurarl:e insights that make the heart weep. But you do not have to ·play-and the sympathy you feel is maudlin indulgence - unless someone fights hack. And no one in Parl:her Prun- cha;1i l'aises a hand except bhe subsidiary character of a wonderful old crone with the head of an unfledged buzza-rd who schemes for what is left of he<r life with the relentless greed of senility. All of the others seem doomed by definition. Transformation At the end, the pieture takes a curious turn. The father, hitherto paralyzed hy delusions of talent, returns at last and is transfo1med into a masterful man by the spectacle of his ruined family. He immediately sets in motion plans for moving to a large city that will give scope to ·his abilities. He organizes the d€!parture with speed and efficiency, courteously rebuffing the village elders who call to complain that he is remov- ing his family, long honored in the com- munity, withouL ·cvnsulti.ng them. All this I asswne to be Indian jrony, and I may have missed ·other examples of this somewhat ambiguous 'seasoning. A description uf a ·single .sequence, the longest and perhaps the best in the film, can most easily show the way ill which director Satyaji·t Ray works. Fol-· lowing the appearance ·of a theatrical troupe in lthe vi11age, the Httle boy rifles his sister's box ·of treasure and takes her silver leaf to make a crown so ihat he can play at king and villain. She catches hlim and beats him angrily, feels guilty as she does so, feels even angrier a-t herself fo1· the gu.lt ;.wtt.!, sLicking out h~n· tongue, races off, knowing thart he will foLlow her. The Child's .4 ngcr Her first intention ap.parently is to lose him to teach him a lesson (there are fine shots of the boy, worried, deter· mined, hurt, wandering through the grass taller than he is), but as she runs, she loses both anger and guilt and leads him finally to the railroad track in time to see a train pass. Thi.s is something he has never seen before and which, an earlier scene te.lls us, he has longed to do. If the sequence did no more ethan what I have aJttempted to describe, it would have told with taste and understanding a great amount about the workdngs of the minds 00: children. But the run O<f the two children ~s inter- cut with <the last quarrel of the mother and an old aunt, who the mother feels i.s responsible for the girl's <previo~s thiev- ery. The old lady, after an attempt to ingratiate herself w1th her sulky niece, goes away to Jie. The implacability of an adult quarrel becomes horrifyingly contrasted w1th the transience of a child's anger. The sequence ends, prop- erly, when the two children, now hap- pily together, discover the aunt in the· woods. · If \ \ is sometimes over- l· Miles D t.he Con of Nov1 what he d instance, you may 1 1 is actuall• line. Som: of music c is the ere; ,. the impro· inventions one thing any other That is tl ~ .. Peace !, . rq, Here 1 It's amaz I'm teac , . .._, in a town quite a c tion and < ment. I· £The stude do any t: worse, th~ any think • orize and ing is unh every wor spend mo , appea.ranc than they '.Dhey drav ored 'penc gener.ally that they' study aid and that'~ tl ~. sors wan1 care and hooks; I books are '\and refns< notebook r understam; ly asseif.tive as to photogra<phy and un- derdeveloped as to drama, it is still· a motion picture not to be missed when It · · ~. plays tonight at 7:00 and 9:00 P.M. in My clas Plane Gee 1 and belo:w \as the 1 three yea EE 22.

1965 sor- prev~­ I with make have feel is Prun- bsidia.ry with who jfe with All of curious yzed hy and man by He ans for give jzes the elders remov- com- All and l of this the in the way in Fol-· rifles d takes so that She feels angrier vut thrut he is to (there detet- gh the as she and track Th~s is and he has did no to taste about is inter- mother feels is thiev- to niece, of of a prop- hap- in the· over- and 11'1'1- '• ··, !, Fri~ay, October 29.; 1965 ~Jazz Creativity: :The Music Soul ' '; By Anthony Bucca S()meone once Wl•ote that any non-musician who '\tries to explain music is a fool. At the double , l\isk Of falling into that categary and of OVel\- simplifying, I will attempt to des·cribe what you hear while listening to jazz. Although there are 'commonly five elements which constitute music, we will concern ourselves here wi·th only two. To be sure, aU five -melody, harmony, rhythm, tone color and dynamics are as important in· this music .as in any other, hut for the purpose of discussing· -~'1 ~~:;i.vity we will examine only melody and bar- What is Melody? M~lody is the suecession of notes which seem · po g() tog~ther in a meaningful wa_y. It i,s the tune I Itself whiCh you commonly associate With a par- ticular song, and the sounds which constitute i melody may be produced by the human voice o.r an instrument. A melodic line, ho-wever, sung or played without accompaniment, soon becomes mo- notonous and therefore other sounds are needed to harmonize with it. Therefore chords, two or more tones played to•gether, are valuable in producing sounds which complement the melody. Harmony is the structure and sequence of such chords. For purposes of Hlustration we may use a figure who is familiar to perhaps everyone on campus-Joan . Baez. When Joan sings one {)f her folk treas- ures, she carries the melody with her voice while she is at the same time producing sounds on her guitar (chords) which give a harmony to her lyrics. If she so desired she might play a \lead\ 'gu.itat· as does George, the :aeatle, by playing the peculiar arrangement of note's which consti- tutes the particular melooy of some song. More Than Melody In a jazz ·performance, howevel', the mu- sician Is not content to play a melody as it was originally written. One frequently heard, naiv>B criticism 1>f a jazz musician is that \he &eems to :be making it up as he goes along.\_ This;, is exactly Miles Davis at the 1\'lidnight Concert given at the Concertgeb()UW, Amsterdam, on the night of November 3, 1956. what he does. He takes a melooy, \Stardust\ f'<lr instance, and re\vorks and rephrases it so that you may at times srarcely recognize the tune. He 1 is actually inventing or creating a new melodic line. Someone may well qul'stion the artistic value of music creart:ed on the spur of the moment. What is the creative differenc-e, you might ask, between · ,, the improvisation's of Miles Davis and the melodic inventions of a high school hand trumpeter? For one thing the succession of notes that Davis or any other jazz musician plays must be melodic. That is they must go together in a meaningful ., Political Sce11e: , By Roher·t .Stolzberg The maxim \My enemy's ·enemy is my friend\ a~ble p&pulari.ty in the Stwte Department since the coup. in· Indon~sia three w,eeks ago. ·.For .it has led sion in the relations between the Peop1e's Republic esia. The impor~!lnce of Indonesia to · AmeHcan from the barest stwtistics. It is the ,Yoi:'lil's with over 105 mi1J.ion inhabitants. It'\is\ the llll''P'Pif'I-T encloses Southeast Asia with a W'e<t;· 'Of ·o-¢-·er: •• ',·ll ·~ . ··. Grinning easily at a ne~,, cpnf~.t.~'t;e, ,IP.4onesian P,r~sident S1,1karno appears untroubled by the violence that -bas shalten,,hls: uati,O.'!l· and w~~lcened his pQiitical position. ' '•I •·•\' • way. Anyone, for instance, who can play the \scale\ on .a piano ca·n produce a series of notes by striking different keys at random, but the total effect will not be melodic. What the jazzman plays must in effect be \saying something.\ And, however elusive his message may be, his listener feels somehC>\V' a sense of communication. Moreover jazz is no-t a.lw:ays, i'll fi,l.et ;rarel:{r, created \on the spur 1>f the mo·ment.\ The jazz musician alwa.ys 1las an arrangement to follOIW, and he usually has in advance some idea o-f what he's going to do. Indeed, if he's plaY.'ing ~ ~ong he has once improvised, he riia;Y .add very; Ji~tle or nothing to his original .Cr~~t.i:on, In jazz..-the\Qn.ce improvi'sed is as good.'f!~r~n~ impl'ovi:secL : ·,· .. Melc:idy· FitS' ·ficmJJony . , ·· . · · . Not only must the so-\Unds a· Davis·prodt;w~s·fiti ·. together in a melodic sence, but they m'lll3t ~ the· ' harmony the other musidans,ar'e ,playing; u·~hey don't, then the new iitelodic 'lin:e• ~~ ··ret~ates is forced or \corny and h:e :i§' p~a~ng p~lii:''jazz. While the jazz man. is plaYing he tnii:s:t alwars keep in mind what the: other musi~ilfl'il.S_ -~ll'·ijomg.' If all the sounds fit: toge;thet, then :Vo:U i'l:M·e ·good jazz. If they don't, you have lll>ise~ · Jal!lz is :rnote. than a particular type of mus'ie';. it :is ~ way of playing music. : ··• •· · To best understand and· appr-eciate' ifuprovis- ation, you should listen to both a ·jaro2l iand· a· mmL jazz recording <>f a melody ·which is· familia:if 'to · you. In the non-jazz .performall!ce· you wiB ·hear:; the melody as it was written by th-e' composer.-Whe· . mu'sicians will play it note for note, and if-'yt>tr: happen to like the melody, you will 1 ·enjoy the< performance. This is what jazz musicians ·refet• to as \playing it straight.\ Now let's ·say., yoo are listening to a small jazz band 'pla-y ·the· samie l .. ' •· . : 1 (' ~- :·t . melody only in a jazz idiom. What do you hear? First, the entire band will \state\ the melody. That is they wip play it as it was originally writ- ten. Then one · ni~ber will begin a solo and he will he folldwieci by<. :the others :in turn., .Although, the e'ssence of jaz~ is freed()m, these solos usually follow some. pattern. The soloist will state the m~~ody for rapppp •e.ight bars, and then h.e will begin to repbrase the original melodic line and change it. He may add new \lieks\ or ornament it, or he may take S()me notes away. After he has explored all th~~possil;iilities that o~cur to hiin, he will ~:pee . agi,tih ·~state tl;le original melooy to let the next . 'Solois.t' ~now that he is almoSt don-e. Once _ll;lJ t'he soM~ts h~ve completed their per- forma'trf~, the. entire band will end the perform- anc?. W:dnc~· -~gain playing the melody straight. .,' ·:= ·' \\· ~ ~·q:cfividual Styles It is an imp01•ta.nt feature of jazz that the im- provisor is concerned more with self-expression than he is with ,creating beautiful sound-s. Jazz is an expressive music. Individual performers he.ve a style -of exp~-essiun so completely their {)Wll that the jazz :fan -can identify their music after hear- ing· a: few notes. \When one refers t1>., style in jazz;. ·one means the utter lostness and de$l>ab: of Miles. Davis. or the frehzy and nervousness of Charlie Par~er. One tl)inks of the spontaneity and enthusiasm . t({f i(.p:uis ArmSltrong or th~ l;'elaxed co()-lness .of Lester .Young. Each jazz lhUllician ha:s, if he.'s WOI'th his salt,.a distinct style or manner of creation. Eaeh. takes. the banal and trite melodies of . popular song and adds part of himself, and in doing .so crea.tes a music which has life. The jazz fa!).. recognize;~ >!lnd appreciates this and realizes fully -the jpy of ~reativity. Peace Corps Report: ·:·::······:·····:·:,\:;:::. ·:;:::'':~:'::':.):·~·:·:'~···::-:;~:-:::c:.:::-: .. :.:;:::: ... ::: .. :~·.:~:,;:::::;.::::,:,:;~::J :.;:;::~::::~.;i::.::,.'·:~~:£,:::~~,::~;ti:~:::~:::::~':::•:::::.:,:: .. ::·~:_:~,:-~:'::::: ::::':.:::l:::·:: .::,.:''::;:::::,~\'·'··-----'~';m.~~%&~W~!i~; Education In,·The A rides ~ Here I am, halfway tht·oug-h. It's amazing hO\\\ the time flies. I'm teaching in a Normal School . in a town here in the Andes. It's quite a change from U.S. educa- tion and certainly not an improve- ment. It's all very regimentefl. £The studelllts are not expected to do any thinking at a1 1 , or. even worse, they are expected not to do amy thinking a:t all. They mem- • orize and parrot talk. Note-tak- ing is unheard of-'t;hey write down every word the professor says and spend more time working on the :. - • ,. <. ' •••. -- -.- •• ' • • ' ' ' ~ • • • : ...................... ;.. .......... ~w.¥<. ... ;-.w.~ .... -.. ........ ;.: .. ,, ...... -.:t.~.-~ ·-,~--- .... :-- ... o,:o··--.-.-· .. ---;:··., ............ -.-.- ................ \\{••;:\\ ........... ·····-··········· ··:·;········ .. J ................................. . By Thomas Krehbiel, '64 ·don't want to make a student take a who'e year over again just be- cause he fails my GeC>metry course. I guess I'll end up passing every- body too. Then there are homeroom prob- lems. The students have classes from 8:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M. every day, except Saturday and Sunday. Saturdays ·there ate dasses fl'Om 8:00 A.M. to 12:00 noon. This leaves a:lmost no time for them to do anything but the sketchiest out- side assignments. It's really roug-h for me and for them. In 51pite of it all, I'm enj<>ying it immensely. Lts quite a challenge and no\\' and then fairly reward- ing. Not In Image , appearance of •their notebool{& than they do S<tudying from them. 'f\hey draw pretty 'borders, use col- or~ :pencils to take pictures, and gener.ally fancy them up oo much that they're next to worthless as study aids. But they look g.ood and that's what the other profes- tl ~- sors want. I really don't much care and never look a-t their note- hooks; I tell them that the note- books- -are for their use, not mine, Tom Krehbiel, '64, is teachbjg in a Peaee Corps Program in Peru, \' and refuse to gra-de them in their n0:tebook <presentation. They can't understamd it. No One Flunlcs similar to the one above.· •.. · : , • . , :.'\ :_ still· a when It·· ~­ P.M. in My classes are in arirolunetlc and Plane Geometry-hig-h school level 1 and below in the st~s. As soO'll \' as the ~tudents complete their three years of studies, however, they will win their tea<Che~s' cbr- tif1ca.tes and go to work. NQ one ever flunks. It's almoS!t impo&si- hle to, .because M th~ system. 'Dbey don't study under, a course or credit .system like we do in the states. If a studel1Jt doesn't pass a coui'~e.. ·he - h~sn't s~' c~ssfully complete4: the year an has to tal{e ·that · whole year · ··studies over ag~in, including t~ :_six or e.ight cour~Jes he passed\ This . make~:; tl].e pro.fes$ors v~r:V. dis-in- . clined to .fail a student. I: certainly figure that I'm taking part in the Peace Corps' most important work. Certainly I'm not in the real Peace Corps image, as most people think ·Of it. I wear a suit- coat and tie every day. I don't try to organize -cooperatives; I don~t do anything which couid 'remotely he called Community Development. But I'm beg.itining to think that all that stuff is a waste CJf bime here in Peru. Organizing a com- munity to build a school is worth- less when :there are no really qual- ified teachers <to work in the school: Violent Covp The coup was directed primarily against the army, and it was perpe-trated with a brutal vio- l~nce which has made the army quite intransigent. Six genera.ls were murdered, and there is evidence that torture was used up()n them. Two others Generals Nasution and Suh~rto, only barely e~ caped, and Nasution's six-year-oln daughter was killed, None ·Oof this makes the army willing to compromise atu:l since the countercoup was .suc- cessful, they have, both openly and through tacit approval of the anti-communist demonstrations been engaged in an attempt to grind the P.Kr: into oblivion. Thousands of suspected commun- ists haye been arrested. The P.K.I. headquarters are bemg d~stroyed by mobs, printing presses confiscated, an(i the h()m~s of members ransacked. The army has announced a ban on communist activity and has outlawed several of the most powerful front organizations, including the l'e- muda, the. routh gr<oup; Barilsan Tani, the peas- ant'·s wing; ·and the trade-union federation SOBS!. ' The c~m:nunists have no chance in a power stru·ggle with the army. Their :strength is built upon ~he number o.f. suppo~ters they have, and in a natwn wh~re .mll.Ftancy. IS not common among the people, Jt 1s rmpossrble to transform tbis popular support into the military force needed to d~e!lt the, army. The P.K.I.'s only possibility of gammgo pdwer was through Czechosolvakian-type coup, and this failed . Two Hopes At present the communists have only two hop€s. The party is almost certainly equipped for a clan- desbine exi-stence if this proves neceS<sary. The army should have little trouble cutting off the head-it has already arrested most of the P.K.L leadership-but the undergr()und roots will be hal!der to c:lestroy. The party has 'been able to survive a similar ·pruning e~rience in •the wake of ·the unsuccessful Madium rebellion of 1948. · The second is Sukarno. This man 'Symbolizes the mitional enterprise and no one could rule without him. The Sukarno mantle is a needed ingredient to any ruling body which wants the support of the •people. And Sukarno knows this. Furthermore, he know.s that the only way his charisma can be effective i-s ii he tolds the balance of power. It is -thus .to his advantage to allow the army a:nd the P.K.I. roughly equivalent pow- er. At present •the army has a near monopoly on po~er, and Sukamo wants to rebuild the counter- wel~~t. He has app~tel1Jtly given up hopes of reviv!ng the P.K.I. as Lt was, but he is talking of fonnmg a new, purely nationalistie, organizati{)n. He ha:s never hlamed the P.K.I. for the coup and recently he has a-ccused im accusers of sla~der Als(), he has crmsistently called for a ha;lt to th; demonstrations against the -commu11ists. Army Leads . Alt present the contest is still going on. There 1s ~o. doubt bhat th~ army ,is in the commanding pos1t10n. .Sukarno LS lef.t httle room in which to maneuver, but though be is down, it is too S(){)n to count him out. The army still needs the ap- peal'an<:e of his supp(}rt :and they cannot co.nl- pletely dE;stro;v the eommunists until he a.pproves. Sukarno IS still the central figure in the tri-angle but i?e relative strengths have changed. ' . It ts hard to te11 what long range effects this will have on the world political situation. It is, af ~ourse, a set-back for the ~ommunists. In- donesia was the most powerful nati'<ln in the world which supported their positions. But the es- trangement between Indonesia and China does not seem to lead to a strengthening of the ties between her and the United States. Foreign Min- ister Subandrio stated that in his news conference on October 23 that just because there were strain- ed relations wi1lh Chlna was no reason to say that the \United States is our friend.\ It is interesting to remember that Indonesia had per- iods of warm friendship first with the United State's and then the Soviet Union before her alliacne with China. Another Effect Another poosible effect '<lf the coup is on the other nonaligned nations. The Egyptian ne\Vs- paper AI Abram asserted that the attempted co-up had \weakened all Communist parties outside the Communist countries.'' It went on to state that it proved that ·the communists' loyrulty was \not primar-ily to their h{)ll!e courutries.'' Whether these sentiments are acted upcm by -the govern- ments is imposs~ole to say, hut it is certain tha.t they do not strengthen the international move- ment. The :attempted coll'p was, then, a failure. While it :is unlikely bha.t irrevocable <lamage u:pon the communist movemerut, <both within and without Indonesia, it certainly reduced its influence. Mis- take·s like this are not critical in and of them- selves, hut they do aid ·the State Department. Perhaps we should offer pensions to the P.K.I. *'Gangyang' is Indonesian for 'Crush.' 3

4 Friday, October -.29, 1965 Scholarship Squeeze: lli<~~'W;~'t~~'\~'W~I#W..%~i&I&-M1'i$lw'fij wm~~~~ilm!milWIMRm~~~~~-. ~i~W.$.~1ili:ilir&-t.~~W.®:Wffi%;o&.Ji,£i~~·'!i~r..;_,;)Eill.\~'t.~tt~'t$l~iii~~;;~;~~\%\;'::::.:;;;;:.it'~~::o;f;_>)l_~i~r.~:':~:'::\\:~)l~~~~!l:1fPi%~\*-'11W41%%1J:~~- ' WHERE·.HAS ALL THE MONEY GONE: Union College does no.t have enough. m.oney to fulfill future sch:olarship needs. Whil€ scholar- ships have not been significantly reduced this year in relation to ]_!last years, prospeclii.'Ve stu- dents ·()f the College, and those presently enrolled, are likely to be affected -by a potentia'i lack of funds. Up to the present time, scholarship funds have come primarHy from intei'est on endowments gi-ven to, or possessed by, the College. Such monies accounted for 85 to 90 percent ()f the tota-l award money. The remaining amount. was pro- dded by annual gifts, and from surplus funds resulting Il'Dm accumulation of inte-rest on the en- dowments during World War II, when few civilian students were enrolled at Union. Presently, how- ever, such surpluses are at an end, the college population is growing, and increasing demands are being placed on the scholarship fund. Inhibits School The lack of sufficielllt scholarshi'P funds can inhibit the school in several ways. First tho~ students already on schol·arship, about :33% of the student body, will find their annual stipe111d signifigantly reduced, as s.ome have akeady dis~ covered. Then, too, incoming studelllts will not receive as much money as have theb.· couruter-- parts in past classes, nor will such a 1arge num-- ber receive assiSitance. Furthermore, Dean Pol- lock suggeslted, Union will be un111ble to compete w~th such schools as Amherst, W-esleyan, and · Trinity fo1• the type of .studeruts all four insti:tu~ · tions now seek. With their superio1· reso')lrces, and hence, scholaTsh1p funds, these in~tituti(lns will be •able ·to offer full, or major, scholarships to those studenbs both needing, and deserving, such grants: Union will not. Fina;Hy, as tuition increases, and the C(}sts of -a college education What is the point of s}lending milli()ns of dollus on new buildings if we do not have sufficient scholarship funds to fill them with first-rate students. Letters To The Editor rise also, Union easily could price herself into becoming a \-country club,\ -open to rthe rich only. Union College has already faced the spec-tre of reduced schruarships. The three major accept- a.nce qualificrutiQIIls f'Or college gvanrts were: ac.a- demi'C prowess, potential contri-butions to the col- lege, and of course, need. Of these, a student must at all times exhi!Mt need, and must .fi:J:l at ~east -one of ·the other :two -criterea. Of great im- pot•ta,nce is -one's collitr1bumon to the college, whellher it be high a()!li().emic aohievemenrt, or more modest scholas-tic effort combined with a mul-ti- tude -of \extra-cm·ricular\ interests. Undel'lyilng these ·tfuree .principles i-s the belief th~t a s-cholar- ship is n01t a ~i:Dt, •but a trust, which :imposes .on the recipient -a certain responsibility tlo the col- lege and himself. ln point of d'act, lliO matter how high the grant, the .Student Aid Offke usuaHy re- quires a stuQ.ent •to perf-orm some sol'lt of work to augment his award, in the hope ·bhat the stu- dent will bemefit by the knowledge that he is help- ing -to win hi•s eduea.tion md is not metely re-ceiv- ing wt •art: the expen:se of others. For ltili.e present term, judgement on the hasfs o,f these s1landard.s was -exceedingly rigorous; so much so as to l'Qwer the scholarships of !l1ot a small number of peO!ple, to completely reject ·still others, •and, uniortun- !lltely, to cause 175 -accepted freshmen tq lo-ok elsewhere becatl!se the .scho()J had no more rn:oney fur them. Several Solutions According ·to administration sources, there are · sevel'al ways Qut -of I{).Ur di-lemma. The :fi.rst of · these has been succeS'sfully attempted at Trinity college, formerly •in a situa.ti!Qn simil:a.r to our own. As Trinity's -tuitioo w.a.s gradually incre~ed, as ours is nOIW, u.pprximately one third of the in- crease was ·used t;o augment scholarship funds. The resuLts .of this .innova:tion were highly aus- picious. From a lower posiltion than many com- By Eric Cohen para:ble institutions Trinity has risen to a point where her scholarship outlay is fax greater than that of her competLto.rs. Such a soluti10n, however, rmp.ies a ph1l:osophical qU€SJtion: is it right 1Jo take from money a student pays to a college for h1s ectucaion, and give i,t to an(}ther ~Student for his? 01•, is it fair to deprive the faculty of such money, which could gre·a<tly increase their sal- aries? 'fhis problem, a coo!l:woversiaJ one, evokes both favorable and hostile comment from students and administrat1on alike, and i·s not Hkely to be solved easily. The seoond ;solution epen -'bo Union College, and according to Dean P.ollock the most probable of those um-der considearatLon, is for the Development Office Ito effect a massive fund rais- ing camp111igm. The third possibility, one which would be most successful if concomitant w.iroh a fund drive, would be the trustees granting the oo1lege added funds. This laJtter possibility has already become ll'eality, .as Mr. Tel'll'y, 18-tudenrt Aid Director., has stated that the :trustees have :lndi- cated that they will provide, or find me·ans bo ac- quire, enough money to enable >'bhe college to give out as much schol-arship money next year as it did ·when it was operating on a surplus. Issue Crucial Union is faced with a pvoblem O'f primary magnitude. The College will be mlllt€1l'ia1ly affected by the adminLstrat1on's success or failure in ac- quh·ing more scholarship money. If we are to hope :flor an even better student body, we must have •the money necessary to the acquisition of needy, bUit outstanding students from diverse geogl'laJphic lQcations, and -to the preservation of those •already on scholarship. As ·the Ciollege en- I•ollmeillt grows, as we become more .ambitious in our ohoice of :students, and a:s the New Y<>-rk Board of Regents pvogresses towards allowing - Regents Scholarshi'P mooey rto leave the silalte, the need f{)r -greater resources becomes moo:e pressing. Fun & Games What Comes Natural:ly Campus Calendar To the Editor: ' w:o\ild one delve into Engineer- ing Abstracts to find the equation During the last few week~ I of the size of the type used by a have hea1·d much . grumbling Greek Philosopher to prove that about the fal_nous Umon. College two times four equals eight? Freshif!3;ll Lrbrary As.signment. Armed with such an array of In addrtwn to commenting a?out 1 ,are hut usef\ll f-acts, one could the uselessness of such a proJect, be fairly assured of fairly de- many '69ers ha~e co:mplamed feating Charles Van D-oren in any about the \excessiVe\ tune they qui?; game have spent in ·the Lib:vary, trying ' to find the required authors, ti- But, u.ntil now, I have ignored tles, periodicals, etc. the most exdting part of the Li- brary Assignmelllb-mainly the I think their appraisal of the Library Lab. If nothing else, Library Assignment is totally un- the nam-e is so l'efreshing, that fair. The pleasure derived f1'0ill eveq the cynical student feels completing such an assignment hims11,lf Qompelled to find out should escape only the truly un- wha.t it is all about. When I was aesthetic. I know I hadn't had forC!ed to show the librarian that the joy of thumbing throug-h the I was able to find information 1946 Reader's Guide to Periodic about basketball in World Book Literature since tenth or maybe Encyclopedia, tears literally pour- even ninth grade. Suddenly, as ed from my eyes. I had not been if in a woaderful world of fan- since second grade tl:J..at anybody tasy, I found myself checking its had taken such detailed interest index of periodicals to see if the in my abili-ty to read. After three Washington Historical Quarterly hours 00: 1 such work, I was so was contained -among its pages. emotionally touched, that I de- And if it were not l:isted in its sired nothing bUit to spend the index, I knew· I could still look rest of my life inside the won- in as many as ten more indexes derf.ul Library. until I finally located the pro•per 'rhus, the entire Library As- one. When the words \Washing- ton,\ \Hi-storical and \Quarter- signment remains in my mem- ly\ finally flashed from the in- ory :as one of the most useful ctex of the proper index, a wal·m and. stimulating events of my academic career. feeling -of satisfaction circul!l>ted throughout my ibody. When peoJJle tell me about the waste of time involved in looldng for such information, I say to them that never has such a un- ique learning experience been of- fered to them. When else does one have the opportunity to find out how many internal combus- tion engines were imported by India fro.m Britain during the period July 9, 1937 to February 29 (leap year), 1956? When else Jay Sincerely, Michael Klimpl IDOL ~he Idol is looking for members for its business sta.ff. All interested students should contact Miles Jen• nio.gs at Alpha Delta Phi or Rodham Tulloss, 393-04 73. Jewelry 315 STATE STREET To the Edi-tor: N ()t too long ag-1> 1 put up a po-ster, famous to those who read \The Realist\ (a rath.er interesting publication sa.tiriz- ing everything worth discuss- ing and at times rum worth dis- cussing!) concerni'llg Com~nu­ nism. The poster was printed in vivid color: red, white, blue and full ·Of sta1·s :and stripes. However, it was prefixed by a wonder.fully descripti-ve four letter word, the cype of which strik-es •terror in the hearts of the P'r A and the -lik~. Granted, ·there are many W<n·ds in the English 1anguage .that are ju.st as forceful; -h-owevel', this ·()lle fit and seemed a.ppr()j)riate. 'rhe pO'ster lrad remained on the wall for about three 'veeks, sile11ttly proclamin-g a personal feeling. Soon, however, the h<>1ocaust struck. Upon return. ing to my room after a trying lunch of hamburgers and Sa.ga service, I was met by th.e house maid who informed me that a campus poolieman, with per-· mission from the \administra- tion', had en-tered my room with{)Ut my knDwledge, and wrenched from ·the woall my neat \-Communi-sm\ poster. I went to the Administ!\ati~n Buildin~r and .spo1'e to an <Jf- fidal there. I wa·s t<>ld in force- ful terms that, altlumgh he agreed with my ideas, he felt that they were expressed in an obsc€ne, irreverent, and un- called for manner. I at firs-t thou.ght thrut he -Qbjeoted to the wovd Communism. 1- was mls- •taken, grossly sol How can one be too irreverent whm refi.'lr- ring to an ideology wlrich. ulti- mately deni-es the individu-al !his natu.ral rights ? This is the crux of one great Co. Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. Arnold Fisher '50 paradQx in Union College. If one were -to walk inbo some of the dorm rooms, one would -see the fleshy advertisements for Playboy and other men's mag- azines on all the Wialls. Breasts and buttocks splasihed all over Union College w.allsl. Eyes that look out :at you ex>pressing intimate desires 'Of a pa.s·mon- ate evening . .All an J;iving color. Y-et the administration is cog- nizant of these pl\0<S'bitutions of th.e female body-. 'l'hese pho- tographs are far more erotic ·than any sign protestin!! ideol- ogies; however, the mere use of a word that, in students' pal'lance creates a. more emo- tional picture rthan ;a filthy pic- ture brings greater hi>rror to the mind •than a full color ·pho- tograph of a body in the licen- tious positron! Before Union can make the great architectural advances it is striviiiig f-or, m like to see some of these and other para- doxes '\'traightened out. Marc Reubins CONTEST!! The CONCORDY is proud to announce that a new feature graces its pages this week. Here is a competiti~n to tax the minds of the students with lucrative prizes as rewards. Tbe purpose of the competition is to write a letter to a govern- ment official, elected or other· wise and extract a reply from these feeble minded people. A copy of your letter and the original reply from the person you choose should be submitted to the office of tbis newspaper no later than Monday, Decem· her 13th. Prizes will be award· ed for the most original and amusing letter and reply by tbe pigmy-minded official. Next Tuesday is Election Day and newly elected officials may be better bait than the senile ones wbo llave been en- trenched for years and have lost ·touch -.;f.ith reality. FERRO PHARMACY 575 NoHStreet Schenectady, N. Y. FR 1-0510. • FOUNTAIN SERVICE Friday, Oet()ber 29 F.ilm Series E.E.22, 7:00 and 9:00 p.m. \Father Panohali\ Saturday, October 20 Freshman Foo-tball: Union vs. R.P.I. at Alexander Field, 2:00p.m. Sunday. October 31 -Gonuuunity Vesper -Service, Memorial Chapel, 7:30 p.m. Monda.y, November 1 Movi111g Ffulger, Hale House Studelllt Lounge, 8:00 p.m. Tuesday, November 2 Oi>nvocaJtion, John Ak:a.r, 11:30 •a.m. A)>:ar in Hale House Student Lounge, 3-3:45 p.m. WilHams football game movies, E.E. 22, 7:30 p.m. Thursday. November 4 Navy Officers Program Information Team, Hale House Student Lounge, 9:00 a.m. ·to 4:00 p.m. Friday, November 5 · Navy Officers Program Inrormation Team, Hale Hou-se Student Lounge, 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Ad Interim report Film -Series, E.E. 22, 7:00 and 9:00 p.m.m, \Duck Soup.\ Octavio Ooncem, Memorial Chapel, 8:00 p.m. Saturday, November 6 Hillel Dance Mixer 8:00 p.m. LARGEST SELECTION OF CAMERAS IN THE CAPITOL DISTRICT Dark Room Supplies - Jewelry - Gifts - Hi Fi Equipment Open 11 A.M. to 9 P.M.- Sat. 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. 1957 FOSTER AVENUE BUY TWO [2] MIKE'S GET ON.E [1] FREE GOOD AT ANY MIKE'S GIANT SUBMARINE STORE OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK ! ,! ·. ~ II, J if .. ,,; ' Friday, C AHent NEED IN< ACADEM SEND Tl 610-612 ~ I Fe a Ju~

~, 1965 Friday, October 29, 1965 AHentlon SENIOR & GRADUATE MEN Students-U.S. Citizens 11, NEEDING NOMINAL FINANCIAL HELP TO COMPLETE THEIR EOUCAliON THIS ACADEMIC YEAR ~ AND THEN COMMENCE WORK - COSIGNERS REQUIRED. SEND TRANSCRIPT AND FULL DETAILS OF YOUR PLANS AND REQUIRMENyS TO STEVENS BROS. FOUNDATION, INC. a point ;er than ·,J 610-612 ENDICOTT BLDG., ST. PAUL 1, MINN. A NON\PROFIT CORP. LOwe·ver, :ight to lege :f:or lent for of sueh eir sal- ' . ev-okes ;tudents y to be o Union he IDCY&t for the nd rais- ~ which ' wiroh a ;ing rthe lity has lenlt Aid ve :indi- .s to ac- to give ~ :tr as it primary affected •• I ' e in ac- ., .d ~ are to ve must dtion of ~. ! ., .. diverse at~on of lege en- itious in 1 . ,11 w York allowing ~=~ ~~ ,t UNDERGRADS, CLIP AND SAVE RITZ RESTAURANT l725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring - MOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOODS Cctering To Small & Large Parties - Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap - Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open 7 .Days A Week Just Arri·ved- .Large Shipment BASS WEJUNS JR. BOOTERY 147 JAY STREET Field, p.m. ·r~====PA~~RK~IN~G=L~O~T~I~N~R~E~A~R~O~F~S~T~O=RE====~ .,,, I ;13 1.m. House House oup.\ ###4-##-4 iTRICT fJment '· 'S E E I 6, 4hl I'· I Skye Homespun bJ JJoutl}wit:k ~ • ''lol'l';l• .,1!1!f .. ~ HandWO'teft .• , • anil ours exclusively. Hearty Skye Homespun from crofter's cottages, from the Isle of Skye, Scotland. We carefully selected a number of choice patterns with hues of the region- colors of mountain. morn, sea and sky. As distinctive sport jackets nothing can toucb them. Tailored with the Soutllwlck nat1.1ral shoulder, of course. Come in- if only to IIMlk and to marvel • • • · WELCOME AGAIN Let the lager freely flow. Down to Louis', fet us go, A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere 2 or more SH I·RTS • • • • • 22¢ ea. NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. PANTS • • 49c SUITS .. • 98c I Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8~17 Dambrose Cleaners 1517 VANVRANKEN AVENUE- FR 4-5193 Juat Around the Comer from Mohawk National Bank For three Generations . • MAMA BIANCHIS Those Who Know ... Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER AMERICAN and ITALIAN FOOD COOKED TO ORDER Tuesdays and· Thursdays Special HOMEMADE SPAGHETTI and MEATBALLS - $1.00 Maurice B. Gr.anbart & Sons · 1135 Barrett St~eet \\3 Vnion Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY ''I know all about General Electric. \Right. Things They make toasters and irons and things like that.\ like the world's most powerful jet engines, the world's largest turbine- generator, the . . world's first Man-Made® diamonds • . Things like nuclear : power plants, suitcase-size · computerS and a wliole new family f I . '' . o p ast1cs. \Yeah yeah. Things like that.\ Only about one quarter of G .E. sales are in consumer goods. All the rest are in industrial, aerospace and defense products. A variety of products (over 200,000 in all). A variety of activi- ties (everything from research and development to advertising and sales). A variety of challenges for young men who want to be recog- nized for their talents and rewarded for their work. Protre$S Is Ovr Mosf lmporf<~nf Prot/vet Important responsibilities come to you early at General Electric. Talk to the man from G.B. about coming to work for us. This is where the young men are important men. G E N E R A L • E L E C.T R I C .. 5

6 Fri~~¥, O.~.tobe,r _2_9. 1 1~6~ : A.ntioch Does A way With Gtades ·Moiinteoanks··---···:·J:arrab.ee···nook Printed-·_-_.··~ In Progressive Plan Of Study ·- Compleielng BY··,Ar.·- English Pu,blishet. 'iMistress'' Cast Antioch College is continuing its drive toward ind:ividual student initiative by eliminating re- quired courses and grades in its new \First Year Plan.\ The plan is designed to bring 'students and faculty closer together in an effort to stimulate the student's 1ndividua:l interests. dent's. .separate interests. If a student were in<ter- ested in St. Thomas Aquinas, fotr example, she could attend a presentation on Plato, Aristotle, and St. Thomas. A freshman would normally take severat presentations a quarter. The concept behind this new academic freedarn is that students will learn much more by study- ing what they are interested in, rather than what they are required to take. The casting- for the Mounte- banks' production, The Mish·ess of the Inn, i•s nearly complete, with only tw~J roles left to be cast. \Decision .at the Chesapeake,\ a book by Dr. Harold A. Lnn•abee, ~ormer Union professor has been published in England by the W:il- ham Kimber firm of London. Published in the United .States last year, the book was widely hailed as a definitive account of the decisive naval battle of The American Revolution, which left Lord Cornwallis and his army stranded at Yorktown, Va. In the battle, a Frencll. fleet under the command of Admiral de Grasse prevented British ship's from rescu- ing the British Army ... This year's freshman class has been divided into groups of fifteen students who are responsible to one fuculty member called a preceptor. The pre- ceptc;r meets with each student for about an hour every two weeks to discuss individual progress or pe1·sonal problems that might confront the stu- dent. Independent study is fostered at these meet- ings, and ·students are encouraged to pursue per- somd academic interests. The female lead has been taken by Mrs. Anne Keith of Mechan- Preceptors As Adviso11s icville, who will play Mirando- Includes Portraits The British edition incvludes many portraits of the particip·a,nts in the battle, among them a number of English leaders deseribed in hardly flattering terms in .the text. Most of the pictures were ob- tained from the private <:ollection of Mr. Harold Jennings; some others are from the National Maritime Museum at Greenwich, Eng. It also contains a new a.'Jlpendix reproducing a translation of the orders givell' to Admiral de Grasse by the French Minister of Marine, Gabriel de Sartine, in June, 1870. This was obtained from the owner of the original document, Professor Charl'es Rieger of the Scho(}l of Al'chitecture at Columbia University, through the assi'stance of Mr. John J. Cun·ningham of Glen's Falls, N. Y. Presentations Inclu,ded The freedom, how. ever, is controlled to a ce1·ta. in 1 nna. , The Marquis ?. f .F. orlip•opoli, deo-t•ee because all students must make theil' ~ca- the Count of AlhafJor.Jta, and the de~ic 'choices co-ordinately with their preceptor. Cavaliere of Ripafratta will be And· even though students will receive no grades, ~· played by Lawrence R, Spivack, as ·such, their work is evah1ated 1•egularly also by PhHip C. Rice, and John S. Beck- their preceptor. . crman, aH Union students. . The preceptorial relationship is only part of the ,;tude11t's academic experience. The \First Yea.r l'lan\ also pt·ovide for short •;presentations,\ whirh would be the equivalent of a course in any nther eollege. The presentation consists of class- r·oom attendance and preparation, taking ten hours a week. ThP presentation, like the preceptorial in- dividual study, places the emphasis on the stu- Bee<mse. t]Je remaining students are. engaged: in ' Other minor roles 'h~ve'- ~een lll(H\e. t1·adtt10nal col!rse:o;, the college IS balan.cm·g given to Frederick w. Brinkman, two systems that ~~11. have to go to one extreme Mrs. Gail Starr Blair (Who is a or another .. T~e Imt1ators of the plan hope to secretary 011 campu·s) and Joel. ~on vert the entire system to. an unst_ructured type M. Blumenthal. Also' presented 1n the ,near future, an~ thts entermg freshman in the cast will be John J. O'Kane, class mll be 1ts vanguard. Ge(}l\ge F. Biondo and Joseph D. Dr. Larrabee, professor emeritus of philosophy at Union College, resided in Schenectady until 1963. He now lives in Austin, Texas.· Weekend ..... (Continued from Page 1) Raised on a small farm, Ian sup- ported himself from his fifteenth year as a migrant worker, lum~ berjack, and later on as a rodeo periormer, taking odd jobs dur- ing the weekdays which enabled him to compete on weekends in the competitions on the rodeo cir- cuit. A serious injury at nineteen put an end to his rodeo days and, during his recuperation, he re- gained a former interes-t in folk music. This interest was further stimulated by contact with a tour- ing British folk singer, Ray Guest. For a while, the two performed together at the Heddelburg Cafe in Vancouver, where Tyson was attending· the Vancouver School of Art, from whkh he graduated in 1957. Became Professional Moving to Toronto in 1959 to furthe1· his career as a commercial urtist, Ian became increasingly in- terested in folk music. He began appearing at clubs and on various folkoong pt·ngrams, one of which led to a year's engagement at the First Floor Club in Toronto. As art job~ were becoming scarcer, he resolved to be a full time pro- fessional performer, giving up commercial art entirely. Numer- ous Canadian radio and television appearances further solidifieil his reputation. Sylvia Self-taught Union To Inaugurate Northeastern Orchestra By Michael Klimpl A new orches·tra has been formed on the Union College. Campus. The Northeastern New York Student Orchesti~a, as it is called, wiH replace the Union-Skidmore Orchestra which has been operating for the past two years. The purpose of the new Orchestra is to bring together, at Uruo-n, the best instrumentalists of high school and college age f.rom the area. Union College will thus serve. as host, and Profes-sor Curtis, the College music director, will conduct the orchestra. The new orchestra bas met with a warm response from neigh- boring high school systems and from private teachers in the area. Skidmore Reforms Skidmore College will return to a ·small instmmental ensemble, under the direction of Francis Carver. However, any Skidmc>re stu- dent interested in the NNYSO may apply for a pc>sition. For the past eight weeks Professor Curtis bas· held wnferences with administrators and teachers in the area, and has auditioned many players from neighboring areas as well as from the College. Union Provides Coaches Union will provide five professional players as coaches of the five string s·ections of t:he OrcheS'tra. They will he present at each rehearsal. Professor CuTti's feels that this \vill enable the Orchestra to develop a good string section. Curtis Sees Promise According to Professor Curtis, no college of Union's size can expect to have a good orchestra, but in collaboration with the cotn- munity, it is very p()s'sible to form \a fine orchestra of young play- ers.\ He hopes to see the new orchestra mature rapidly and provide a unique opportunity for its members to play high quality music together. He also believes that there are many ways in which. the Orchestra, Brass Choir, and Woodwind Quintet 'D<f Union can give entertainment on campus in collaboration with ()ther groups such as the Glee Club and the Mountebanks. The Orchestra meets every Tuesday evening in the Memorial Chapel from 7 :30 to 9 :30. The Orchestra will give <!oncerts at Union and in the Schenectady area. Union A.A.U.P. Elects Prof. Lambert Born in September, 1940 in Chatham, Ontario, a small city near the U. S. border, Sylvia Fl'icker wa·s raised in a musical household, receiving her earliest year's training in voice and mu- sir from her mother, a music Professor Francis Lamberd; of teacher, organist, and choir mis- the Biology Depat·tment has been tress. As a folk performer, who elected president of t:he Union plays autoharp and guitar, Chapter of ·the American Associ- Hhe is entirely self taught. She abion of University Professors in has leamed the bulk of her re·per- an election that book place in the toi re from books, hearing very spring of last year. Nier Addresses Forum on Areas Of Spectroscopy Dr. Alfred 0. Nier, Chairman of the School of Physics at the University of Minnesota, was the guest speaker of the Union Col- lege Chapter Qf Sigma Xi on Oc- bober 25. His address was the first of a series of fall lectures Which will be presented at col- :eges, universities, and resea1Xh laborart;ories throughout the Northeast. few music recordings while grow- Professor Sherwood Fox, chair- ing up in Chatham. This has re- rnan of the Sociology De·partmeillt, Hulted in a .style completely her and Professor Charles Gati, as- o\Vn, free of outside influence. In sistant professor od' PoLitical Sci- l!l59 Sylvia met Ian, when she. ence, have been eJeoted vice presi- was wm·king as a solo folksinger. dent and secretary-treasurer, !'€- The variety of their songs re- spectively. Professors Fox and fleets the rich diversity of Can- Gati take over po.sitiorus held by ada's folksong tradition·s as well Profes&ors Lambe!'t an-d Girdner as a number of folksong disci- last year, amd Pr.ofessor Lambert plines peculiar to the United succeeds Professor Ferguson as States. president. A glimpse into Stan Getz's A national lectUI'er for the So- ciety of Sigma Xi and its affhli- ated society, the Scientific Re- search Society of America, Dr. Nier spoke on \Mass Spectrosco- py-an Old Field in a New World.\ After a brief review of various aspects of the field, Dr. Nier talked abou-t new areas in which mass spectoseapy is now being used. career will appear in our next The AAUP is perhaps the most issue. important association of univeil.'- Akar. • • (Continued from Page 1) in its ninth year, sponsored joint- ly by the Association of Ameri- can Oollege·s and the Danforth Foundation. This program aims to \strengthen the intel1ectual, the religious and the cultural as- pects of liberal education in the Cnited States.\ l\1r. Akar is one of li scholars and spf'cialists chosen by the Danforth Founda- tion and the A.A.C. for campus visits during the present aca- demic year. Studied in This Country Mr. Akar was born in Roti- fumk, Sierra Leone, in 1927. He taught English, mathematics, re- ligious concepts, and current af- fairs in the local primary school at the age of 19. At 20 years of age, he began his undergraduate education at Otterbein Oollege in W estervil!e, Ohio. After trans- ferring to the BeTkeley campus of the University of California in 1949, he received a B.A. degree as a political science and jour- nalism major. Mr. Akar then simultaneously pursued two cir- ricula of law studies in England for two years. Expt'rieuced in Bl'Oadcasting Mr. Akar has als-o had wide ex- perience in the fields of broadcast- ing anrl the performing arts. sity faculty in the country and is very much concerned with the academic freedom and financial status of instructors. Un.ion Col- lege has one ·of ·the largest ehap- ters in the United Sta1;e,s in terms of percentage oi faculty member- ship. Computer ••• (Continued from Page 1) Research Extensive Dr. Nier h~s done· research in the development of mass spectro- . meters, and has discovered natur-~ ally-occurring iso.topes of p·atas- sium, calcium, sulfur, and osm- ium. In addition to applying tl1e mass spectrometer to rese·nrch in such fields as nuclear physi•cs, order, it would n(}t be installed chemistry, engineering, bio-logy, until the beginning of ne:A-t sum- geology, and geophy.sics, he has mer. done research in precis·}on meas- The General Electric 234 can urements of atomic masse.s, nu- handle up to forty prog·rams sim- clear binding energies, and the ultaneously with relay systems effects of cosmic rays on meteor- emanating from all sections of ites. the country. The Gen-eral Elec- A member of mamy honorary · tric Corporation has gi~eii Union societies and a recipient of 'I!um- col!ege access to the complete erous honors, Dr. Nier e·arne·d his system without wst for a four- . bach~lor's and mag,ter'·s degrees to-six week trial pexiod. After in electrical engineering, and his bhis time, the system, depending doctorate in phy·s~cs from the on its relative success, may be University of Minne·so·ta. He sub- rented until the new computer ar- sequently worked ~s a National rives early next summer. Research Fel1ow at HaTvard Uni- In addition, Mr. PleMUlls has vers:i;ty and has served on the ordered new accessmies for the faculty ...... of the University of I.B.M. il620 in order to make the Minnesota. machine fastet' and m.ore effici- Charles D. Swartz, Professor . ent. These indude an 800-card- of Physics at Union, and co- per-minute reooer. T\Jl.is equ.i'P- worker with Dr. Nier on the Man- ment should arrive a.Jtd be in- h31btan Project during World War stalled within the ne:xt few day.s. II, introduced the spe:ake1·. Sosnow. At this time, aN roles are still \tentative and casts are someth::nes altered slightly in the interest of the play. Tryout Well Attended ()ash Prize 'Offered For 'I' Best Library Twenty-one pergons tried out for thirteen ·roles, and Professor William ~- Meriwej;l).er,. advisor &tudents wishing to eruter the to bhe Mountebanks, was pleased co~petition for the Edwin 1. Rich with ·the turnout. 'lEve·ry one of P1.H~e are .adv]sed to submlt their them rli's'Played a measure of tal- enjt):'ies before January J.. ent which can be usefully engaged (C'he award is presented every in -our productions here,\ Prod'. :flou;rth year to the stuilent with Meriwether said. It is hoped that the best personal library. A the fu-ture will see as much en- ~ash prize ·accompanieJs the thusiasm as wa·s shown in the award. la·st tryout. !'fl'~e award,\ s~d Pro£. Carl A.jl Niemeyer, cha!rmlllll of the The first rehearsal was on Mon- fa.~hlty judging coonrnittee,\ day, October 25, at 7:45 in the gi[s the student a cb.ance to Nott Memorial Theruter. co ~eot books on his own and to se ! their value.\ ! Good Planning Stressed Engineers Meet . , hile no definite standards ha¥e yet be€n de•termined, C'()her- P:nofe:;sprs H. Gilbert Harlow, ence and planning of vhe collec- Olaren:ce F. Goodhart and Gard- tion will be emphRJsized. Stud- ner Ket\hum of the Engineering ents interested should; su.bmit ·a · faculty of Union College will take Jist of books to the committee; .part in the Middle Atlantic Con- a tnember of the group. ~Il then ference on Enginee.ring: Educa- l'is:t the student to authenticate ti!o11 at Buck Hill FaJls, Penn- the. J:st. sylvania, on Thursday and Fri- qjhe other members of the fac- day, Ootober 28-29. More than uld· committee are Mr. James 100 l'ejlresentatives of other en- R. ·thrash, head catalog-uer (}f the gineering instituti-ons will also be scl,:affer Library, and Prof. Val- participating at this meeting. ter E. Pilcher, of the Physics De- They will meet with executives pm•tment. and practicing engineers from The winner of the Rich Prize electric utililty companie·s in Penn- will be encouraged <to en:ter the sylvania, New J~rsey, and M•ary- national competitioo for the Arny land -to discuss the· trends in en- LoV'eman Award, presented to the gineering education and the tech- student with the best personal nical challenges and manpower Hbrary in the country. The dead- needs o()f the industry. line for this award is normally awarded February 1. Don't Buy a Diamond Until You've Seen is an ordinary Diamond with 58 facets This Is an EVERTRUEa Extra Facet Diamond with 144 facets 1:· .. EVERTRUE ~tta <:facet''<> TIME CENTER JEWELERS ----- ------~ muur'n §quirr §4u.p Neither raii n nor snow nor. heat nor Liz ca:never wrinkle h.i.s Press-Free Post-Grads Nothing puts a crease in these pants where a crease doesn't belong. They hold their crisp, neat look hour after· hour~ No matter how , often they get wash~d, they • never, ever need. ironing Trimly tapered· with belt 1 1oops an'd cuffs.: Colors and ! fabrics for casual and dress 1 wear. 65% Dacron® polyes- iter/35% cotton, $6. 98. Flan- 1 nel-~,-. 1 hopsackina. re,verse 1 twists, Acril~m\acrytic· $ 7.98. 1 (Slightly higher in the West.) 326 State St. Ph. 377-3061 7 ,, .. Va1 (Con score in second p ed a ten Marchi Morley E once ag~ for a 67 on a 5-y Hobart two tone} men mad 9 minute game. Coach players ·o . ceptional 'Por·te an Woodell. The S yards ru: 5.4 yards aged ollil:'i four in t: Tight lected ·Sev pleted b Utecllt, , The Dut• passing. 'l'he lo gave the adv:antag< of the co The G~ to score· had the minutes. The \n aged to h a short f halfback. for a six ·minutes o score c1irr drive. '69 G .E The Ui team tak RPI in a r;. ·turday .at men, 2-1, 26-22 viet the win t ; t ff,seaso!l. Umon ·l half rallJJ unbeaten their firs \~·~ 'the seaso1 strong rm ing and I especially >!. ;\Second hs . 1 the conte~ ·the game gained Rc .grournd an ''VLsito:vs w ~Sustained first quar RochestE ~arly in 1 22-yard p Bill Boccac caccio, an • 1 ,passer, cc charging I first half. well in ·th narr(}wed' quarte James' tlu Rocheste fensive m2 the dos quarter an second qua was a 12 Dillie 2 poir score 16-7. off and m strong TUJ Joo George Go drive with i to Cower made •the 'l 1ater, ' ester quick ing again. :.::~ Parkw

6 I - ,. . . ..... ·~ Antioch Does Away With Grades/MounteEariks·----1--Larrabee.Book Printed . . I .. . . . - ... ---- -· . . I In Progressive Plan Of Study· Completeing By An English Publish-er dent's separate interests. If a student were inter- ''MistreSS!'' Cast \Decision a·t the Chesapeake,\ a book by Dr. Harold A. Larrabee, .-\ntioch College is con-tinuing its drive toward individual studl'nt ini.tiative by eliminating re- quired courses an-d gt·ades i'R its new \First Year l'lan.\ The Jllan is de;;igne-d t0 bring students and faeulty closer tog .. ther ioH an effort to stimulate the student's individua-l interests. ested in S't. Thomas Aquinas, for example, she former Union professor has been published in England by the Wit- could attend a presentation on Plato, Aristotle, The casting- for the l\1ounte- llam Kimber film of London. and St. Thomas. f>-. freshman would normally take hanks' production, The Mistress Published in the United States last year, the book wa'S widely several presentatiOns a quarter. I of the Inn, is nearly complete, hailed as a definitive account of the decisive naval battle of The The concept beh·i:nd this new academic freedom 1 with only two roles hdt tu be American Revolution, which left Lord Cornwallis and his army is that students will learn much more by study- I cast. stranded at Yorkto·wn, Va. In the battle, a French fleet under the Thi~ year's freshman class has been divided in-to group~ of fiftL·erl stude-nts w-h(!} arc responsible to <>He faculty member t•allcd u. prcccpt0r. The pre- L'eptor· mee-ts with each student for about an hour l'H!I'Y two \\'eeks to discuss individual progress o1· per::;unal problL·m:; that ntig-ht eonfront the stu- dcut. lmleveadutt study i:; fu:;tered a·t these meet- iHg~. ~tnd stmlenb are cncoaraged to pursue per- S•H wl ~tcadt• m ic intere::;ts. ing what they. are interested in, rather than what 1 The female lead has lH\en taken f~;U~en~~i~i~d.,Ai 1 ~~~y~e Grasse prevented British ship's from rescu- they are required to take. 1 hy Mrs. Anne Keith of Meehan- Includes Portraits Preceptors As Advisors i i~ville, who \\'ill, play M_irando.- The Bri-tish edition incvludes many portraits of the participants Presentation;; Inclnded The freedom however is controlled to a certain hm. The Marqms of Forlipopoli, in the battle, among them a number of English leaders described in de<>ree becaus~ all stud~nt::; must make their aca- 'the Count of Alhafioritn, and the hardly flattering terms in the text. Most of the pictures were ob- de~!ic 'choices co-ordinately with their preceptor. 'Cava-liere of Ripafrntta w~ll be tained from the private collection of Mr. Harold JenningS; some And even though students will recein! no grades, 1 Phl,Y~d by ~awt·ence R. ~)m·ark, ·others are from the National Maritime Museum at Greenwich, Eng. as ·such, their work is evaluated regalarly also by . Ph1hp C. Rtre •. -and John S. Beck- It also contains a new appendix reproducing a translation of the their prerep.t0r. : Prman, all UnwB students.. orders given to Admiral de Grasse by the French Minister of Marine, Tht• precl'ptorial rdationshi-p is only part '-lf the :<:udent',.; acadt•mk exp<.•rience. The \Fi-rst Year !'ian., al,;o provide for ,;hort '·presentations,\ whit-It \\'ould be the equiyalent of a course in any <>thel' eolleg-t•. The prese-ntation consists of class- l\oom uttendanct· and prepa.ration, taking ten hours a wee-k. Tht· prest>ntalitm, l-ike the preceptorial in- di\·itlual ~tUlly, places the emph-asis on the stu- Beeause. t.he remaining students are. engaged. in J Other minor r-oles '!un·,/' been Gabriel de Sartine, in June, 1870. This was o-btained from the owner llHJre trathtwna•l co~rse:;, the l'ollege IS ba-lannng i given to Fredel'iek '\V. Bri.nkman, of the original document, Professor Charles Hieger of the School of two systems that ~\'\11. have to go to o11e extreme ! Mrs. Gail Starr Blair (who is a Architecture at Columbia University, through the assistance of Mr. or another. T~e I-mt1ators of the plan hope to , secretary 011 campus), and Joel John J. Cunningham of Glens Falls, N. Y. ~·on\'ert the enttre :::ystem t~1. an unst_ruetured type . ivl. Blumenthal. Alst0 presented Dr. Larrabee, professor emeritus of philosophy at 'Cnion College, 111 the _Near future, and thts entt>n-ng freshman , in the ca·st will he John J. O'Kane, resided in Schenectady until 1963. He now lives in Austin, Texas. c,lass will be ·tts vanguard. i George F. Biondo and Joseph D. Weekend .. ~ (Continued from Page 1) R~dsed on a small farm, Ian sup- pot·ted himseJ.f from his fifteenth ;~.-ear as a migrant work2r, lum- brrjack, and l·ater on as a rodeo performPr, taking odd jobs dur- ing the \\·eekday;; which pnabl~d him to eompPte on weekenrls .m tlw competitions on the rodeo Cll'- cuit. A ::;el'ious i-njury at nineteen put an Pnd to his rodeo days and, during his recupt't·ation, he re- gained a former interest in fork music. This interest wa·s further stimulated by contact with a tour- ing Briti·sh folk singer, Ray Guest. For a while, the two perfor1ned togethl'r at the Heidelburg Cafe in Vancouvt•r, where Tyson was attend-ing the Vancouver School of A l't, fmm which he g-raduated in W57. Became Professional ::\loYing to Toronto in 1959 to furthet· his career as a commercial arti~t. Ian be>cnme i,nct·easingly in- tel'ested in folk music. He began appraring at clubs and on various folkf'ong programs, one of which lt>d to a year's engagement at the Fit·st Floor Club in Toronto. As art job~ wen' becoming scarcer, he resolved to he a full time pro- fessional performer. giving up comme>rcial nrt entirely. Numer- ous Canadian radio and television appearances fmther solidified his nputation. Sylvia Self-taught BDrn in September, 1940 in Chatham, Ontm·io, a small dty near the l'. S. border, Sylvia Fricket· \\·as rai;;ed in a musical household, receiving her earliest ywr's training· in voice and mu- sit· from her mother, a music tL•aC'het·, organi;;t, and choir mis- tress. As a folk performer, who plays autoharp and guitar, shP i~ Pntin>·ly self taught. She has learned the bulk of her repet·- t oire f1·on' hnoks, hearing very few musie recordi-ngs ·while grow- ing up in Chatham. This has re- :-<ulted in a style completely her m\·n, fret' of outside influence. In 1 ~l;-)9 Syl\\ia met Ian, when she \\as wnt·king as a solo folksinger. The variety of their song;; re- flects tlw rich diversity of Can- ada';; fnlksong tradition·s as well a~ a number of folksong disci- plines peculiar tn the lJnited States. A glimpse into Stan Getz's ~·areer will appeat· in our next !::<SUe. Akar. • • (Continued from Page 1) in its ninth year, sponsored joint- ly by the Association of Ameri- can Colleges and the Danforth Frmndntion. This program aims --------------------:-----~---- '1 Sosnow. At this time, all roles are still \tentative and casts 1 are sometimes altered slightly in i -t:he interest of the play. Union To Inaugurate Northeastern Orchestra By Michael Klimpl Tryout Well Attended . Twenty-one persons tried out : f'or thirteen roles, and Professor I William L. Meriwether, advisor · to .the Mountebanks, was pleased with the tumout. ''Eve-ry one of A new orchestra has been formed on the Union College Campus. them displayed a -measure of tal- The Northea·stern New York Student Orchestra, as it is called, will ent which can be usefully engaged replace the Union-Skidmore Orchestra which has been operating for in ou•r productions here,\ Prof. the past two years. Meriwether said. It is hoped that The purpose of the new Orchestra is to bring together, at Union, i the future will see as much en- the best tnstrumentalis~s of high -school and college age from t~e 1 thusiasm as was sh{)wn in the area. Umon College will thus serve as host, and Profes·sor Curtis, I last tryout. the College music director, will conduct the orchestra. . . The new orchestra has met with a. wat·m respon~e from neigh- . The first r~hearsal w~s o~ Man- boring high school systems and from pnvate teachers m the area. clay, October. 25, at 7.45 m the Sk .d R f I Nott Memorial Theater. 1 more e orms Skidmore College will return to a ·small instrumental ensemble, under the di-rection of Francis Carver. However, any Skidmore stu- ' E . M dent interested in the NNYSO may apply for a pe>siti-on. I ngmeers eet . For t~1e. past eight weeks Prof~ssor Curtis has held conf~r«:nces I Profess-ors H. Gilbert Harlow, wtth admmtstrators apd te~chers m the area, and has audrtio-ned Clarence F. Goodhart and Gard- many pl·ayers from netgh?ormg a:ea:s as well as from the College. ner Ketchum of the Engineering Umon Prov1des Coaches I faculty of Union College will take l!nion wi-ll provide five professional players as coaches of the part in the Middle Atlantic Con- five string sections of the Orchestra. They will be present at each ference on Engineerillie: Eduea- rehearsal. Professor Curti's feels that this wil-l enable the Orchestra tion at Buck Hill Falls Penn- to develop a good string section. sylvania, on Thursday a~d Fri- Cnrtis Sees Promise I day, Ootober 28-29. More than According to Professor Curtis, no college of Union's size can 1100 representatives ·D'f {)ther en- expect to have a good orchestra, but in collaboration with the com- 1 gineering instituti-ons will als-o be munity, it is very pos·sible to form \a fine l}rchestra of y-oung play- participating at this meeting. ers.\ He hopes to see the new orchestra mature rapidly and provide They will meet with executives a unique opportunity for its members to play high quality music and practicing engineers from together. He also believes that there are many ways in which the Orchestra, Brass Choir, and Woodwind Quintet ·of Union can give electric utiliJty companies in Penn- entertainmen-t on campus in collaboration with other groups such sylvania, New Jersey, and M•ary- as the Glee Club and the Mountebanks. l~nd t~ discuss ~he trends in en- The Orchestra meets every Tuesday evening in the Memorial g~neermg educatton and the tech- Chapel from 7:30 to 9:30. The Orchestra will give concerts at l'nion meal challen~es and manpower and in the Schenectady area. 1 needs of the mdustry. Union A.A.U.P. Elects Prof. Lambert I N ier Addresses Forum on Areas Of Spectroscopy Cash Prize Qffered For . '. I Best Library Students wishing to enter the ~o!npetition for the Edwin L. Rich Ftirze are adv~sed to submit their ent~·ies before January 1. The award is presented every fourth year to the student with the best personal library. A ~ash prize accompanies the award. f'The award,\ said Prof. Carl A., :Niemeyer, chairman of the fa~ulty judging committee,\ giyh the student a chance to coUeot books on his own and to set' their value.\ ' · Good Planning Stressed While no definite standards have yet been determined, c-oher- ence and planning of the collec- t:on will be emphasized. Stud- en's interested should submit -a list of books to .the committee; a member of the group will then Yis:t the student to authenticate :he l:st. The other members -of Lhe fac- uHi committee .are Mr. James R. 'lflwash, head cataloguer of the Scl~affer Librar~', and Prof. Val- ter E. Pilcher, of the Physics De- partment. The winner of the Rich Prize will be encouraged to enter the national competition for the Amy Loveman A ward, presented to the student with the best personal J:brary in the country. The dead- line for tills award is normally a warded February 1. Professor Francis Lambert of the Biology Department has been elected president of the Union Chapter of the American Associ- ation of University Professors in an elootion that took place in the spring of last year. Dr. Alfred 0. Nier, Chairman I of the School of Physics at the Unh'ersity of Minnesota, was the 1 guest speaker of the Union Col- lege Chapter of Sigma Xi on Oc- tober 25. His address was the first of a series of fall lectures which will be presented at col-I :eges, universities, and research Don't Buy Professor Sherwood Fox, chair- man of the Sociology Departmerut, and Professor Charles Gati, as- sistant professor of Political Sci- ence, have been e-lected vice presi- dent and secretary-treasurer, re- spectively. Profes-sors Fox and Gati take over po.sitions held by Professors Lambert ami Girdner last year, and Pvofessor Lambert succeeds Professor Ferguson as president. The AAUP is perhaps the most important a.ssocia.ti·on of univer- sity faculty in the country and is very much concerned with the academic freedom and financial status of instructors. Union C-ol- lege has one -of the largest chap\ ters in the United S.tates in terms of percentage of faculty member- ship. laboratories throughout the I Norbheast. A national lecturer for the S-o- ciety of Sigma Xi and its affili- ated society, the Scientific Re- search Society of America, Dr. Nier spoke on \Mass Spectros·co- py-an Old Field in a New World.\ After a brief review of various aspects of the field, Dr. 1 . .Nier talked about new areas in which mass spectoscopy is now 1 being used. : Research Extensive a Diamond Until You've Seen to \streng-then the intellectual, c t the religious and the cultural as- i ompu er ••• ped:> -uf liberal education in the I Dr. Nier has done research in I the development of mass spectro- I meters, and has discovered na:tur- 1 ally-occurring isotopes of po.tas- 1 sium, calcium, sulfur, and osm- ium. In addition to applying- the I mass spectrometer to research in j such fields as nuclear physics, chemistry, engineering, bio]{)gy, geology, and geophysics, he has done research in precis-ion meas- urements of atomic masses, nu- clear binding energies, and the effects of cosmic rays on meteor- ites. l'n.it£'cl States.\ Mr. Alwt· is one. (Continued from Page 1) of 17 srholars and s·pr>cialists c>hosen by the Dan-forth F-ounda- ti-on and the A.A.C. for campus visits during the pre-sent aca- rlemic year. Studied in This Country Mr. Akar was born in Roti- fumk, Sierra Leone, in 1927. He taught English, mathematics, re- I igious concepts, and current af- fairs in the local primary s-chool at the age of 19. At 20 years of age, he began his undergraduate education at Otterbein College in Westerville, Ohio. After trans- ferring to the Berkeley campus of the University of California in 1949, he received a B.A. degree us a politica-l science and jour- nalism major. Mr. Akar then simultaneously pursued two cir- ricula of law studies in England for two years. Experienced in Broadcasting Mr. Akar has also had wide ex- perience in the fields of broadcast- ing and the performing arts. order, it would not be installed until the beginning of ne:ll.i; sum- mer. The General Electric 234 can handle up to forty programs sim- ultaneously with relay systems emanating from all sections of the country. The General Elec- tric Corporation has given Union college access to the complete system without cost for a four- to-six week trial period. After this time, the system, depending on its relative success, may be rented until the new computer ar- rives early next summer. In addition, Mr. Plesums has ordered new acces•sories for the I.B.M. -1620 in order to make the machine faster and more effici- ent. These include an 800-card- per-minute reader. This equi'P- ment should arrive and be in- stalled within the next few days. A member of mamy honorary societies and a recipient -of num- erous hon-ors, Dr. Nier earned his bachelor's and master'·s degrees in electrical eng.ineering, and his doctorate in physics from the Univ€r.sity of Mipne'Sota. He sub- sequen-tly worked as a National Research Fellow at Harvard Uni- verstty and has served on the faculty...... of the University of Minnesota. Charles D. Swartz, Profe.ssor of Physics at Union, and co- worker with Dr. Nier ·on the Man- I ha,htan Project during World War II, introduced the speaker. is an ordinary Diamond with 58 facets This is an EVERTRUEe Extra Facet Diamond with 144 facets EVERTRUE \&tta <;facet'.. TIME CENTER JEWELERS maur's §quirr §~np Neither rain nor snow nor heat nor liz can ever wrinkle h.i.s Press-Free Post-Grads Nothing puts a crease in these pants where a crease doesn't belong. They hold their crisp, neat look hour after· h~ur. No matter how often they get washed, they never, ever need ironing .Trimly tapered with belt : loops and cuffs. Colors and 'fabrics for casual and dress ; wear. 65% Dacronojj; pol yes- ; ter/35% cotton, $6.98. Flan- 1 nels, hopsacking, reverse ; twists;Acrilim·l];acrylic, $7.98. 1 CSI ightly higher in the West.) 326 State St. Ph. 377-3061 7 I. i : \ tVa (Cc score il second ed a tE I . Mare I Morley once a! for a fl on a 5· Hoba- two tou men m~ ·9 minul game. Coach 1 players I c:eptiom ·Porte a Woodell The yards r £l.4 yare aged on four in pleted Utecht, The Du passing. • The 1 l . gave the advanta:. of the < , The C to score had the minutes. The \ ·• 1 1 aged to a short halfbac~ <l- 1 1 fo.l' a s1 'immutes 'I score eli drive. ... r '&9 ~ I ; '• The 1 1 .1 team ta RPI in : ., ! 1urday a1 If men, 2-l i 26-22 vic 1 the win ~ • t ,season. 1 ' Union I half ral: j unbeaten their fil ' · ; the seas• I ' strong r1 ·ing and especiall: ' ! i ·\Second f ! the conu ! ·the game ! gained I 1 . groU!Ild a ·• 'visitors , I sustained I first qua Roches I ·~arly in 22-yard : Bill _Bocc. caccto, ar , ,. <nasser, e i charging first haH well in t narrowed 1 !··the quar James' t' Roches fensive n h1 the clo quarter a second qt w.as a 1: ! Il.back Da.le 1 l fhe 2 po score 16-' off and 1 l strong ·r1 Ill '\Mlld .Joe George G I drive wit to Cowe , I i 1 'llade •the j ' utes late1 ester quic ing agairl .) -~ I I ' , Park•

19~~ : .. ··~ ..... ·.· the Wi.l- widely of The army the m rescu- in ~b­ some Eng. of the ~wner of of Mr. College, ee ease in crease ey hold ok hour how ed, they Ironing belt lor's and -dress polyes- 98. Flan- re.verse ic',$7.98. West.) 377-3061 ,fl 7 Varsity Football (Continued from Page 8) score in the first minutes of the second period. The score climax- ed a ten-play 60-yard drive. • • • Harriers Lose 25-31;· Close Winless Season The Dutchmoo harriers, finish- eig·hteenth. · ing their season with an 0-5 rec- Union-Trinity Meet · ore!, lost their last duel meet of Trinity downed the Dutchmen the year to visiting Hamilton 25-. 21-36 in a home meet. The out- Friday, October 29, 1965 Time Out: Williams Willies By Andy Colb Marchitell and junior halfback Morley split the runnin,g honors once agai.n later in ·the quarter for a 67-yard drive which ended on a 5-yard score by Marchitell. Hobart added a field goal an<' two touchdoWJls before the Dutch- men made ·their initial score with · 9 minutes, 49 seconds left in the 31. come was never in do1,1bt, even · Williams-how that .name ·brings fear, rivalry, jeal(}usy into the The home mee•t was a fast race tlwugh Dave Ring and Bill Beev- hearts and minds of Union stude11ts. The rivalry is ce~i;ainly we~'l , from the beginning to the end. ers were tied for first after one :founded. WiHiams seems to be the team that always wms when Jt · · Bill Beevers (5:06) was a step rrvile. Neil Campman wa:s in sixth f.aces Union whether the competition is football, -baseball, swimming, ahead of Hamilton's AI Podosek with .three visitors in fro.nt <Jf or ba:sketbak This year the Ephm-en are just as strong a:s always, art: the mile mar-k. Dave Ring him and three trailing him. smashing Bowdoin 42-13 and beating Tuf-ts in Medford for the first was one second behind. Neil At .the ~lh mile mark, Beevers time in 10 years. Their running game is sparked ~y half!>ack ~d Campman (5:25) was sixth and was ·tied with Trinity's Bill Shor- Wing, who before the Tufts game led Ne~ En~l~d In rushmg w1th Spe.nce Hunt (6:09!) ninth. teil for the lead. Ring was now 6.4 yards per caiTy for 560 yar{]s •. Their passmg attack features game. , Coach Flood indicated that two players ·on the offense played ex- ception::il'ly well .Saturday: La- 'Porte and blocking fullback Paul Woodell. The Statesmen compiled 384 . yards rushing for an avera:ge of· 5.4 yards per caiTy. Union aver- aged only 2.0 and gained 47 yarcLs, four in the first half. Tight end Jim Williams col- Hobart defensemen step over and Jected ·seven of the 15 passes com-· on Dave Loveless (63) in their pleted by Hitchcock and Boob effort to tackle Ramich (45). Utecht, while LaPorte had six. The Dutchmen made 159 yards passing. The loss to Hobart Saturday gave the Statesmen a three-game advantage in .the 52-game history of the contest. BOWLING 1. Top'.s liar ................ U 1 After 1%, miles, visiting Podo- in fourth ami Campman still George Cannon who has completed 26 -of 37 passes for 336 yards. sek (9:10) was the -leader; then sixth. After ahourt 8 1 /2 miles, New Garnet Beevers (9:15) and Ring (9:23) Shortell passed Beevers, and in This year, however, .WHliarns; wHl not .be. facing the faded Ca:mpman (9:52) •had m-ov- the last mile, ano-ther vi.sito1· Gamet of years past. Umon has .n<Jt had a wm~n&' footb~ll season ed UJJ to tie for fif.th, but he ·passed him. During this time, since 1956· nor have the Dutchme-n defeated Williams smce then. ater fell back to sixth again. Ring was sWl maintaining fourth, This year'~ Garnet record stands at 3-2, hardly indicativ~ of the Hunt (10:26) mainta~ned ninth. but Gampman fell to eighth. drubbing handed to RPI or the mmp over Rochester. Un•Ion foot- There were no m@re important Spence Hunt finished tenth. The, ball '65 version has set more college records -than any single team changes during the rest of the one brig'ht spot of the day was sine~ the :first one. Halfback Ramich has gained a total of 460 yards race. that Beevers, Ring, and Campman for 5 TD's, averaging 5.9 yard's per carry. Rieh Clemens has aver- The freshmen had a triangular a,ll bettered their previ()US best aged 5.6 yards per caiTy. Union's passing· attack is flawless. Tom meet with Hamvlton and Willis- times of the yeal'. Hitchcock has completed 103 passes of 188 thrown f~r a total of ton. Williston copped it with 39 The freslunen also lost to 1070 yards - three. times that of Williams' quarterback. George points. Hamilton had 41 and Un- 'Trinity 25-31. Myron Fribush LaPorte, Marc Hudbut and Jim Williams have averaged over 10 ion 43. Myron F>rLbush took in- won the race with (15:44). Mike yards for each pa'ss caught. dividual honors with ·15:41.7. The Reily (16:21 was fifth, Will Good- The Garnet is on the brink of .a precipice. To fall is to lose to other freshmen who scored for win (16:31) sixth, and Kim Bird Williams and return to the ranks -of \good-old-Union-fo(ll;ball.\ To The Garnet found little chance to score in the first half - they had the ball for about three minutes. 2. Rue Wraiders 3. Lou's Barber Shop .... 7 Union were Kim Bird (16:00) ( 17-26) eighth. hang on is to turn around, to face Williams with grim determination rourth, Will Goodwiln (16:11) sev- Union-Hamilton Summary I and a desire for vietory. A victory over Williams is more than a 2 ¥2 eruth, Mike Reily ( 16:36) thir- ~ ~~~~;~; ~ ~~:~~:~~ ~~~~~el~ H ~;:~~ j football .victory, i:t is a necessity for the Garnet's first winning 5 teen'\h. and John Sh~ard (17:23) 3 Ring u 26:12.8 6 Campman u 27:50 sea'son smce 1956. ..... The \makeshift\ defense man- aged to hold H()lbart scoreless for a short first quarter, but senior halfback Marchitell ran off-tackle . ~ for a six-yard score in the fhst , · minutes of the second period. The score climaxed a ten-play 60-yard drive. 4. Junior :Bootery .......... 7 5. Dari-Treet Drive-/In 5 5 7 6. Teddy K's Tavern .... 5 7 7. Team #3 .................. :3~ 8% 8. Mid-Town Bar. Sh ..... 0 12 '> '69 Gridders Tackle RPI Tomorrow; Second-Half Rally Defeats Rochester By Walt Baxter The Un:i001 freshman football team takes on tvaditional rival RPI in a home contest this Sart:- lf.urday .at 2:00 P.M. The fresh- men, 2-1, by virtue of Friday's 26-22 victory over Rochester, need the win to conclude a successful ,~,season. ' Union, ·staged a stJ.·ong· second half rally in edging previously unbeaten Rochester. Throughout their first home fl:.l?J?~·!ll'ance of • '•; the season, the team' d~splayed a strong running game, good block- ing and pass protection, and an especially TUgged defense in the : •!' ;tSecond hallf. The closeness of ... · the contest was not reflected in 1 1 ·the game stati!stics as Union <Jut- gained Rochester 241-57 on the ,grolllnd and 94-51 in the air. The · 1 ·visito11s were only able to mount sustained Qffensive drives in the first quarter. R~cl!ester took an 8-0 lead lcarly in the first quarter on a 22-yard pass from quarterback Bill B()ccaccio to Rick Hart.. Boc- caccio, a!ll elusive runner and good ·'' ,-passer, ccmtinually escaped the charging Garnet' linemen in the first half. He did not fare as well in ·the secO'Il.d half. Union narrowed the gap to 8-7 later in quarter on the fir&t of Joe ' James' three touchdo'WThS. Rochester's second and last of- fensive march of the game came 1 the dosing minutes of the first quarter and can-ied over into the second quarter. 'I'he scoring play was a 12 yard pUJss from half- Dale Cidale to Ray Troiano. 1 2 point conversi·on made ·the score 16-7. Union :book the kick- off and moved downfield on the ' · strong TUnning ·Of John Cower Joo James. Qua1·terback Georg'e Goth capped the scoring drive with ·a 4 yard scoring toss i to Cower. James' conversion J, 111ade •the ·score 16-14. Tw:o min- . · Utes 1ater, ·after a 46 yard Roch- ' ester quick kick, Union was mov- ing again. The drive crone to a halt as Roche·ster's Paul Singer pi-cked off a screen pass intended for James and wemt 32 y-ards for a touchdown. The 2 po-int con- version attempt failed and Roch- ester led 22-14. Just berfore the half Union went 39 yards in 7 plays to move into scoring posi- tion. A James' field goa.! attempt was wide to the ·left, h<>wever. The Garnet narrowed the gap to 2~-20 late in the third peri-od 1 on a 61 yard, 9 play scoring 1 march. The key play of the marcllJ was Goth's 8 yard run to the 3 ' behind the perfect bl~cking of Glidden and :Blechner. Joe James took the hall in on pitchout from Goth. Goth's pa:ss on a 2 point conversion was wide of the mark. A Rochester fumbl~ on the Un- ion 48 early in the four.th quarter proved to be fa~tal. FulLback 1 Kent Picken drove 13 yards,. through a huge hole in the Ro- ehestel' line for a fir.st down on the 39. Picken and James alter- · nated in carrying the ball to the 14. A penalty moved the ball to the 7. Cower took the b.all to the 2, and James took the ball in for his third .touchdown at 5:44. The Union .secondary, led by Max Birdsell and Norm Lasda, successfully contained the Roch- ester pas•sh1go attack in the dos- ing minutes of the game. YOUR JEWELER AWAY FROM HOME Parkwood Boulevard at Rugby Rd., Phone No. 393-3631 Past Pres en and Take a look at the above chart; then a good long look at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft-where technical careers offer exciting growth, continuing challenge, and lasting stability-where engineers and scientists are recog· nized as the major reason for the Company's con· tinued success. Engineers and scientists at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft are today exploring the ever·broadening avenues of energy conversion for every environment ... all opening up new avenues of exploration in every field of aero- space, marine and industrial power application_ The technical staff working on these programs, backed by Management's determination to provide the best and most advanced facilities and scientific apparatus, has already given the Company a firm foothold in the cur. rent land, sea, air and space programs so vital to our country's tutu re. The list of achievements amassed by our technical staff is a veritable list of firsts in the development of compact power plants, dating back to the first Wasp engine which lifted the United States to a position of world leadership in aviation. These engineering and scientific achievements have enabled the Company to obtain its current position of leader- The Company's first engine, the Wasp, took to the air on May 5, 1926. Within a year the Wasp set its first world record and ·IVent on to smash existing records and set standards for both land and seaplanes for years to come, carrying airframes and pilots higher, farther, and faster than they had ever gone before. In recent years, planes powered by Pratt & Whitney Aircraft have gone on to set new standards of performance in much the same way as the Wasp had done in the 1920's. The 727 and DC-9 are indicative of the new family of short-to-medium range jetliners which are powered by the highly successful JTSD turbofan. Examples of current military utilizations are the J58· powered Mach 3 YF-12A which recently established four world aviation records and the advanced TF30-powered F-111 variable· geometry lighter aircraft. ship in fields such as gas turbines, liquid hydrogen technology and fuel cells. Should you join us, you'll be assigned early responsi· bility. You'll find the spread of Pratt & Whitney Aircraft's programs requires virtually every technical talent. You'll find opportunities for professional growth further en· hanced by our Corporation·financed Graduate Educa. tion Program. Your degree can be a BS, MS or PhD in: MECHANICAL • AERONAUTICAL • ELECTRICAL • CHEMICAL ENGINEERING • PHYSICS • CHEMISTRY • METALLURGY • CERAMICS ca MATHEMATICS • E~GINEERING SCIENCE OR APPLIED MECHANICS. For further information concerning a career with Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, consult your college placement · officer-or write Mr. William l. Stoner, Engineering Department, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford, Connecticut 06108, SPECIALISTS IN POWER •• , POWER. FOR PROPULSION-POWER FOR AUXILIARY SYSTEMS. CURREt-.IT UTILIZATIONS INCLUDE AIRCRAFT, MISSILES, SPACE VEHICLES, MARINE AND INDUS· TRIAL APPLICATIONS • Pratt & Whitney ~ir~raft u DIVISION OF UNITED RRAFT CORF'. CONNECTICUT OPERATIONS EAST HARTFORD, CONNECriCUT ' FLORIDA OPERATIONS WEST PALM BEACH, FLORIDA An Equal Opportunity Employer

2.9r 1965 Larrabee, the Wil- widely of The his army under the rescu- in were ob- some Eng. on of the Marine, the owner School of of Mr. College, Texas. §qnp in crease hold hour how they ironing ith belt and nd dress ojj; polyes- . 98. Flan- reverse lie, $7.98. West.) 377-3061 7 I. i . i LV arsity Football • (Continued from Page 8) score iR the first minutes of the second period. The scorP climax- ed a ten-play 60-yard driYe. I . MarchiteU and junior halfback Morley spJ,it the runnine: honors I once again later in the quarter for a 67-yard drive whirh PndPr 1 [ on a 5-y-ard score hy Marrhitell. Hobart added a field goal am' two touchdowns hefore the Dtltch- men made their initial srore with I . 9 minutes, 49 se~tmds left in the game. Coach Flood indicatec·l lhut t\\'o 1 1 . players on the offense played ex- . ceptionally well Saturday: La- . Porte and 'blocking ful'lback Paul Woodell . The Statesmen compi:lect 324 yat·ds rushing for un average of four in the first half. • • [ fi.4 ya.rds per carry. Union u\'e·r- aged only 2.0 and gai!i!ed 47 yanls, Tight end Jim Williams col- j lected seven of the 15 passes com~ pleted by Hitchcock and Bob Utecht, while LaPorte had six. The Dutchmen made 159 yards Hobart defensemen step over and on Dave Loveless (63) in their effot't to tackle Ramich (45). passing. . The loss to Hobart Saturday I l . gave the Statesmen a three-game advantage •in the 52-game history 1 T , B of the contest. · op s a:r , The Garnet found little chance 2 . Ru Wr 'ders to score in the first half - they c at had the ball for about three 3. Lou's B::n·ber Shop .... 7 minutes. BOWLING .. 11 1 5 4. Junior Boote.ry 7 5 5. Dari-Treet Drive-[n 5 7 6. Teddy K's Tavem 7 7. Team #:l 3 1 2 The \makeshift\ defense man- ··• ~~aged to hold Hobart scoreless for a short first quarter, hut senior halfback Marchitell ran off-tackle ,.. ( , for a six-yard score in the fb:st \' . 1 .,i minutes of the second period. The : score dimaxed a ten-.play 60-yard drive. ; 8. Mid-Town Bar. Sh ..... 0 12 ... ( '69 Gridders Tackle RPI Tomorrow; . I!. B~~~~:!alf Ra 1 1!! 1 , ~~~~~!~~~o\~~!!~~ '' The Union freshman fo()tball picked off a screen pass intended j ·~ team. takes on traditiona! rival I for James und we!l'lt 32 yards for I RPI m a home coilltes.t tlus Srut- r a touchdown. The 2 point con- ,, lurday at 2:00 P.M. The fresh- I· version attemp.t faioled and Roeh-l I men, 2-1, by virtue of Friday's, ester led 22-14. Just be·fore the i 26-212 victory over Rochester, need I half Union went 39 yards in 7 1 the \IYin to conclude a successful plays to move into scoring po.si- ~ · e ,,season. tion. A James' field goal attempt l Union staged a strong second was wide to the left, however. l half rally in edging previously The Garnet narrowed the gap 1 unbeaten Rochester. Throughout to :2·2-20 late in the third period I their first home appe:n-ance of on a 61 yard, 9 play scoring I •- the season, the team dlsplayed a march. The key play of the march I ' strong running game, good block- was Goth's 8 yard run to the 3 · ·ing n;nd pass protectio11, a_nd an behind the perfect blocldng of! especially Tugged defense m the Glidden and Blechner. Joe James: ' ! • ·\Second half. The closeness ?f took the ball in on pitchout from : ! the contest w~s. not refl~cted m Goth. Goth's pass on a 2 point! t ·the game stabstJ.cs as Umon Dut- conversion was wide of the mark.: ~ gained Rochester 241-57 on the A Rochester fumble on the Un-: 1 .,g!~UJlld and 94-51 in the air. The i0n -!8 early in the fourth quarter: ·: ns1tors were on.ly abl~ to ~ount 1 proved to IJL' fatal. FulLback. I ~ustamed offensn·e drrves rn the Kent l'irken drove 13 yards; I first quarter. I thmugh a huge hole in the Ro-: Roch_ester took an 8-0 lead chester l.ine for a first down on I , ~arly m the first quarter on a the :w. Picken anci J ame.s alter- . 2~-yard pa~s frof!l quarterback I nated in carrying the ball to the ~ Brll Boccaccw to R\ck Hart .. Boc- 14. A pPnalty moved the hall to; ~ caccio, an elusive runner and good the 7. Cower took the ba:ll to , , ,. <nasse:, continual!}: escape.d the J the 2, and James took the ball! l rhargmg Garnet lmemen rn the in for his third touehdown at 1 first half. He did not fare as I E5:44. The Union secondary, led well in the second half. L'niun hv Max Birdsell and Norm Lasda, 1 narrowed the gap to 8-7 later in: successfully contained the Roch- 1 !··the quarter on the first of Joe! ester passing\ attack in the clos-1 James' three touchdowns. 1 'ng mi·nutes of the game. : Rochester's second and last of- i I fensive march of the game came 1 h1 the closing mim11tes of the first ' quarter and carried over into the I second quarter. The scoring play w.as a 12 yard pass from half- 1 I i!back D&le Cidale to Ray TroiaJlO, 1 1 I fhe 2 point conversi.on m:.:d-e the 1 score 16-7. Union took the k.it'k- off a:nd moved downfie-ld on the l strong ·running of John Cower 11l •\f•md J·oe James. Quarterback George Goth capped the scoring j drive with a 4 yard scoring toss 1 to Cower. James' conversion 1 , 1 J 1 >nade •the score 16-14. Two min- 1 I utes later, after a 46 ym·d RGch-~ ester quick kick, Un1on was mov- ing again. The drive came to a i YOUR JEWELER AWAY FROM HOME Parkwood Boulevard at Rugby Rd., Phone No. 393-3631 Harriers Lose 25-31; Close Winless Season The Dutc·hmen harriers, finish- eighteer.tth. · ingo their season with an 0-5 rec- Union- Trinity Meet I Friday, October 29, 1965 Time Out: Williams Willies By Andy Colb :Jrd, lost their last duel meet of Trinity downed the Dutchmen I the year to visiti·ng Hami.lton 25- 21-:JG in a home meet. The out- 31. cume was neY~r in ciou~t, even II ___ W_i:-::H:-::.ia_m_s-::-h-o~-:v-:-:th:-a-:t-n_a_m_e\\'7b-l'l:-.n-g-s-;fe-a-J-.,-r-=iv:-:. a~1;-:-r~y:-, -;~-=-ea-=-·1;-:o~u::s::y-:. i;:n:::t-:-o-:t::;:h:-::-e~ The home meet was a fust t\Uce thtmgh Da-:e R!.ng ~·nd B1!l Beev-1 hearts and minds of Union students. The twalry Js cet:taurly we~! from the beginning to the end. Pr~ were. tr~d for hrst af~er .one I founded. Williams seems to be the team that always wms .whe~ rt Bill Beevers (5:06) was a skp m;de. :-Jed Ca:npman ;vas m srxt~ faces Union, whether the competition is footba.J.l, baseball, swunmmg, a-head of Hamilton's Al l'odosek \\:rth three vtsJtm:s. m ~ront of I or basketball. This year the Ephmen are just as strong a·s always, at the mile marlc Dave Hing hun and three t:raJhng lum. ; smashing Bowdoin 42-13 and beating Tufts in Medford for the first was one second behind. l\'eil At .the '2. 1 '2 mrl_e m~rk, .Be~vers I time in 10 years. Their running- game is sparked ~Y haH~ack ~d Campmau (5 :25) was sixth and was t1ed wrth Trrmty s lhll ::1hor- Wing who before the Tufts game led New England m rushrng w1th Spence Hunt ·((i:09) ninth. ~ell ~or the ]pad. ,Ring was no.w 6.4 y~rcls per carry for 560 yards. Their passing attack features After l:t:~ mHes, visiting Podo- 11.1 fourth . and Cam~man ~tdl George Ca·nnon who has completed 26 of 37 passes for 336 yards . sek (9:10) was •the leader; then srxth. After ·ubowt :E2 mlles, New Garnet Beevers (9:lf5) and Ring (9:2:~) Shortell pas~~d Beevers, a~d. in: This year, however, Williams wHl not .be. f.acing the faded Ca:mpman (9:52) had mov- the last mile, another vts1tor ·Garnet of years past. Union has not had a wmrung football season ed up to t•e for fifth, but he passed him. During this time, sinre 1956· nor have the Dutchmen defeated WHlia:ms since then. ater feH ·back to sixth a:g·a.i-n. Ring was still maintaining fourth,' This year'; Garnet record stands at 3-2, hardly indicative of the Hunt ( 10:26) maintained ninth. out Campma': . fell to eig~th. 1 drubbing handed to RPI or the romp over Rochester. ~nion foot- There were no more imp·>rtant SpPnre Hunt timshed tent·h. 1 he ball '65 version has set mC~re college records than any smgle team changes during the rest of the one bright spot of' the day was Rinc~ the :fi.rst one. Halfback Ramich has gained a total of 460 yards race. that Beevers, Ring, and Campman 1 fo 1 • 5 TD's averaging 5.9 yard'S per carry. Rich Clemens has aver- The freshmen had a tr·ia.ngular all bettered their previous best aged 5.6 y~rds per carry. Union's passing- attack is flawless. Tom meet with Hami·lton and Wi.J!i;;- times of' the yea1·. Hitchcock has completed 103 passes of 188 thrown for a total of ton. WHrliston copped it with 39 The freshmen also lost to 1070 yards - three times that of Wiiliams' quarterback. George po.ints. Hamilton had 41 and Un- Trinity 25-31. Myron Fribush LaPorte, Marc Hudbut and Jim Williams have averaged over 10 · ion 43. Myron Frihush took in- won the race with (15:44). Mike: yards for each pass caught. dividua>l honors with 15:41.7. The Reily (16:21 was fi-fth, WiH Good-' The Garnet is on the brink of a precipice. To fall is to lose to other freshmen who 'scored for win (16:31) sixth, a,nd Kim Bird 'WHliams and return to the ranks of \good-old-Union-football.\ To Union were Kim Bird (16:00) (17•26) eighth. hang· on is to turn around, to f.ace Williams with gl\im determination fourth, Will Goodw~n 06:11) sev- Union-Hamilton Summary and a desire for victory. A victory over Wr!Hams is more than a enth, Mike Re1'ly (16·.36) tht'J•- 1 Podosek H 25 ' 30 ' 24 Ca~pbell H 27 ' 05 · f'ootbaH victory it is a necessity for the Garnet's first winning 2 Beevers U 26,02.75 Kne1sol H 27,27 1 ' teen•h. and John Sh€'pard=_(~1:..:7~:=2.:.3:._) _:3::_::Ri:.::n 9 :_::u:____:2:.:6:..:' 1.:.2-:.:8__:6:_C:.:a:.:m.:.p:::.m.::.:a\.:__:u__:2.:...7:..:.'5.:...0_· .::s.::.:ea::.:'s::.:o:..:.n::_::s.:.:in.:.c::.:e:.-=1.:.9.:.56.:.·:...._ ___________________ _ Past Presen The Company's first engine, the Wasp, took to the air on May 5, 1926. Within a year the Wasp set its first world record and went on to smash existing records and set standards for both land and seaplanes for years to come, carrying airframes and pilots higher, farther, and faster than they had ever gone before. In recent years, planes powered by Pratt & Whitney Aircraft have gone on to set new standards of performance in much the same way as the Wasp had done in the 1920's. The 727 and DC-9 are indicative of the new family of short-to-medium range jetliners which are powered by the highly successful JT8D turbofan. Ex:amples of current military utilizations are the J58- powered Mach 3 YF-12A which recently establisned four world aviation records and the advanced TF30-powered F-111 variable- geometry fighter aircraft. and Future Take a look at the above chart; then a good long look at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft-where technical careers offer exciting growth, continuing challenge, and lasting stability-where engineers and scientists are recog- nized as the major reason for the Company's con- tinued success. Engineers and scientists at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft are today exploring the ever-broadening avenues of energy conversion for every environment ... all opening up new avenues of exploration in every field of aero- space, marine and industrial power application. The technical staff working on these programs, backed by Management's determination to provide the best and most advanced facilities and scientific apparatus, has already given the Company a firm foothold in the cur- rent land, sea, air and space programs so vital to our country's future. The list of achievements amassed by our technical staff is a veritable list of firsts in the development of compact power plants, dating back to the first Wasp engine which lifted the United States to a position of world leadership in aviation. These engineering and scientific achievements have enabled the Company to obtain its current position of leader- ship in fields such as gas turbines, liquid hydrogen technology and fuel cells. Should you join us, you'll be assigned early responsi· bility. You'll find the spread of Pratt & Whitney Aircraft's programs requires virtually every techn icat talent. You' II find opportunities for professional growth further en· hanced by our Corporation·financed Graduate Educa. tion Program. Your degree can be a BS, MS or PhD in: MECHANICAL • AERONAUTICAL • ELECTRICAL • CHEMICAL ENGINEERING • PHYSICS • CHEMISTRY • METALLURGY • CERAMICS • MATHEMATICS • ENGINEERING SCIENCE OR APPLIED MECHANICS. For further information concerning a career with Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, consult your college placement officer-or write Mr. William L. Stoner, Engineering Department, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford, Connecticut 06108. SPECIALISTS IN POWER ••. POWER FOR PROPULSION-POWER FOR AUXILIARY SYSTEMS. CURRENT UTILIZATIONS INCLUDE AIRCRAFT, MISSILES, SPACE VEHICLES, MARINE AND INDUS· TRIAL APPLICATIONS • Pratt & Whitney ~ircraft u DIVISION OF UNITED ~RAFT CORP, CONNECTICUT OPERATIONS EAST HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT FLORIDA OPERATIONS WEST PALM BEACH, FLORIDA An Equal Opportunity Ernployer

PEACE -CORPS Page 3 COncordy Sports WALLOP WILLIAMS Garnet To Face Williams; Upset By Statesmen, 35-14 The Garnet defensive line converges upon the Hobart pla.ee ki~kEI' in their efforts to bloek the PAT. Their Elfort succeeded. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Ephmen~s Win Streak On Line By Jeff Browne Tlw V<U::>iLy fL>ulLall Dukhm~n will face the tuughc.,t uppunenls in their eight game ::;chedule tumunuw at 1:30 in Williamstown, Mass. There, the Williams College Ephmen will defend an eight game \Yinning streak against the Dutchmen. If the Dutchmen are ever going- to beat the Ephmen, thi·s is the best year in a long time - while the passing attack is stronger than eve1·. \Passing is the only way we'll ever beat them,\ .said head coach Flood, \I don't think we're ever going to run into a situation where we'1·e going to be·at them on the ground. \They're out of our class,\ Flood pointed out, \But not out of sight.\ Williarn~>, not a member of the ICAC, has a won-4, lost-1 record in a rough league. What does Williams have that the Dutchmen haven't? Size mostly. The line averages, 6 feet, :>-i·nches and 225 pounds; that <>ut-weighs the Gar- net line by 20 pound's per man. The Ephmen also have two good running backs, Ed Wing and Lee Comfort, and a quaJ.'terback w.ho directs a balanced attack. Quarterback ·George Cannon doesn't pass much, ma.ybe eight times a g-ame, but when he doe-s, he consistently hits two good receivers. Fnion io:, unfortunately, getting used to being beaten by Williams. The last time th:e Garnet won the annua:l contest wa·s in 1956 vrh.en they claimed a 20-14 triumph. Williams won last season, 48-27. Union's recm·d in the 78-year history of the rivalry is not mueh more impressive. The Dutch- men have been victorious in only 14 of the 57 en- counters, and have tied four. Union suffPred its second loss in five starts last Saturday, the fourth straight against Hobart 25-14. ' \You run into injuries and y<>u have pl'Oblems,\ said Coach Flood in reference to last Saturday's e-ncounter with l:IoiJart. There were more prO>blems tllan the G:unet -could handle Saturday as the Dutchmen lost by 21 points in the fast-moving C'ontest on Alexander Field. Defensively, \Nobody may have realized it, but we had a makeshift ball club,\ said Fluod. InjUl·ed first-stringers Chuck D't.rapano and Jimmy Di- Nitto had to be replaced, and another first string- er, Bob Marshall, -was un.able to play. Frank Fusick was placed at a new defensive p-ositi()n and Jim Williams, not a regular starter, had to play both defense and offense. Offensively, Tom Hitchcock suffered from a \very simple rule of athletics: Sometimes you're on; sometimes Y'ou•re off.\ He w.a:s. off as the star quarterback ·hit only 13 of 30 ];lasses. Hobart certainly didn't need the breaks, but they got them anyway. The Statesmen fumbled seven times throughout the game, but never lost ()one. They also 1·ecovered two of three Union fumbles. - The m~ny- U nii»n def£msive · changes=a:itd bad breaks, along with excellent I'unning by Hobart b-acks Tom M:ol'ley and John Marchitell added up to a big day for the Statesmen a;t the ex:pense o-f the Garnet. After poor quarteTs Hitchcock finally got the offense moviil!g in the final period. Then he fi-red tvro touchdown passes to the tenth leading sma:ll college receiver in tbe natil}n, George LaPorte. LaPorte, who was well covered throughout the game, made good ~atches on pass plays for 7 and 35-yard scores. Al Hrdlicka kicked both extra points. The Garnet f.ound little ehance to score in the first half - tlley had the ba.ll for about three minutes. Continued on Page 7, Col. _1 EASTERN AVENUE PIZZERIA SPECIAL STUDENT TRIP 860 Eastern Ave. WE DELIVER PIZZA PHONE 393-0870 I I I I EUROPE - by Sbip - $:175.00 up Departure July 2 - Returning Aug. 23 OTHER SAILING DAfES AVAILABLE SCHENECTADY TRAVEL BUREAU 424 STATE ST. Phone .377-8506 COMPLETE TRAVEl SERVICE- AIR- SEA- LAND Ga.rnet Play Trinity In •Final Game CROSS COUNTRY: Tough, Lonely Sport By Les Gordon Cross country is an extraordinary sport. You are alone from the beginning to the end. You are fighting not only your opponent but also the clock and the course. ~rhe Union varsity soccer squad, 3-6 for the season will Cross country is a tough sport, because there are no second play its last game today at' Trin- chances. There's no n~xt play in which tc» make_ up for rour :tcissed 1ty CoHege in Hartford, Conne·c-: block; there's no next mnmg to prove you can hit that pitcher. Once ticut. Lust year the Bantams, you start running there are no one minute \time outs\ in which to vho were the New England soc- catch your breath. ·er champs, defeated the Garnet The psychology of crl}ss country i:s tremendi}US. A little burst ·loott>rs, 7-2·. of speed at the right seC\oncl C'an win a race. Making a sharp turn In last wet!k's acliun lhe Luot- .gracefully may take the hPart out of your opponent behind you. If ~rs \()st t..> Hobart, 2~1. H~:Jw- you sprin~ out in frol'!t of u m~n with three miles to go, it. may hurt Jver, the Garnet then broke their you phfSicaFr· . But It may ~111 your opponent psychologically, and 'our game losing streak with a when his spmt IS broken, he IS out of the race. l-3 tdumph o\·er Oneonta State Pain is an inherent part of this ·sport. It is more than a matter ~eachel's' College under· the lights of cour'se; it is a must. To excell as a runner you must endure pain. :mlt Tuesday. Not just aches, S'trains, and tiredness, but actual pain. Pain levels Ste\'e .\;agy gave the Dutch- all ·runner'S; at one time or another every harrier must succumb to it. :1en the .first tally of the game There are times when the pain is so intense that you have to 1gainst Hobart in the third qual'- clench your fists; you squeeze so tightly that when you stop your ~er. A single goal is usually forearms seem paralyzed. ~nough to win on a muddy field, There are times when you must grit your teeth as hard as you \mt H_obart rebounde? to sron can. And. when you finaily relax your jaws, your gums feel like ~vice m ~he final penod. Coach they're gomg to explode. ;vans smd that ti~e Dut~hmer There are time's when you must gasp for air-but it is cold air, .,.play~~ a beaut}ful IY!ldfield and suddenly your lungs feel like they have a thousand pounds of ,.arne, but that they d1d n9t pressure trying to break them open. s~oot enough. The ~obart goalJe Aches and Pains :lid not make ove.r f1fteen saves Th · h h 1 ·b · Tobey Olsen was outs.tandin i~ ere are t~mes _w en, _YO\!-'r w. o e ody aches, and there 1s no he nets for the Garnet. U~ion way you can reheve !~. Th1s IS umque to eros~ country. ~ou have ras wtthout th · f f to nm a good three mlles or more to really .begm to feel th1s sensa- ~r 1 ·ts r.egul.are seLrvJces °F b.our tion. Your forehead throb's; your lungs burst; your arms ache; your ' ' s, arry 'a Ian. t h h t · d I · d · Y 't d 't h rt Dave Schmidt L M F 1 s omac ur s, ~n your egs ~we un ei yo!!. ou s1 , an 1 u s; ~nd s d G. arry . c ar ane, you walk, and 1t hurts; you he down, and It hurts; you can't do a taF. ~~t H wg ?lsboln. thing but wait. You are experiencing a pain that comes from exert- It lool uesd • a if .,rho eDrnt h ing every m. uscle in your body to its physical limit. This, in essence, . . ~ as u e u c men · th d fi ·t· f t would J.ose their fifth straight lS e .e m IOU o cross :oun ry. ;ame to Oneoruta when they -trail- . Th1s. may all seem hke a hell, but t~e re..yai:ds are many. The ed Oneonta, 2-0, at halftime. How satisfactiOn Y?U get _from a race wel1-ru~ IS unlimited, because what- ever, bhe Garnet came> IYaC'k tr ever you achieved u; that race, you d1d by yourself. No man on score more goals (!Jhree) in one ear~h. h.elped you. 1\:o teammate fed you the ball; no quarterback half than they scored in any en- th1 C\\ ~ uu the pass. tire game this seaoson. Dave I\jaufman and J·ohn Fuller netted points for the Dutchmen in the thkd quarter to tie the score. In the fourth period, Larry Mc- F1an·lane, one (}f the best penalty kickers in the league, put one home to give the Garnet the win. Fullbacks James Barlow, Randy Kuhl, and Dave Schmidt wen praised by Coach Evans. Greg Olson, who was switched to half- back in the second half for mOTe scoring punch, returned to play his usua,J fine game. Unioo had .lbout sixteen shots on goal in the second half, quadrupling their first-half output. Coach Evans is looking for more \offensive pWlch\ against jhe tough Trinity team today. '69Booter~ End2-1-3 In its last game of the season, the freshman soccer squad boost- ed its season record tto 2-1-3 as t.he young Dutchmen defeated Williston Academy on Daley Field, 2-1. Scorers for Union were Dave Pettinos and Dan :\1eade. Play remained scoreless for .nost of the first period. It was !l.ot until the fourteen minute nark that Union scored its first ;oal. The goal occurred after Dave Pettinos attempted a goal and :put his own rebound through the opposition's net. Both teams '1layed without scoring for the rest of the first period and for all fYf the second. Finally, in the third period, Williston broke thTough to tie the score. This goal was scored from a cross from the right to the lef't wing. With no other scoring in this period, the score remained tied wi:th forty seconds left ·to play. At this point, Dave Banton, who had scored three of the five goals Unron scored against Darrow Scll.ool, broke away from the defensemen and passed to Dan Meade for the win ning goal. Gotta Have Heart It takes more than muscle to run cross country-more than courage even. It takes \heart.\ This word i's used often among run- ners, because of what it means. It is hard to define, because it en- compasses so much. Heart turns a plain runner into a harrier in the fall and a trackman in the spring. It's too tough to be destroyed m one meet or <>ne season; but then again, irt; doesn't sprout up over- night. The harriers with heart can be distinguished easily. They are the ones who never say die. When the goals be>rome distant or cloudy they give out as thoug-h the end wt>re just as close 1,1s tomorrow. ' The true cross country man believes that he wiU better his time -if not in the next meet, the one after it. When he stops believing this, he has lost the sport. He can give it nothing, and it can give him notl:).ing in return. l .· Natural Shoulder Sport Coats L. G. BALFOUR CO. DIAMANTE'S . 135 ERIE BOULEVARD in fine Worsted Cheviot, Herringbone Hopsack, Harris Tweed . CARL SORENSEN BADGES • RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or Call Fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N. Y. 13210 Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott St. Open Daily I 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. - I A.M. Boulevard Bowl 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES DAVE'S ~quirt ~4np 326 STATE ST. Ph. 371-3061 Tues. & Thurs. 'til 9 After tail pa Cl}ncert parties, can look ful Satu parties, croS'Se J! game w: highligh which v. concert ties. Ticket certs ar' a couplE day nigl $:WO T dormitor ternity l . ( Stan his crea sellout J his eons 1 record ' year car ous role in conter Getz 1927. A btlr of 1 playing ophone. Two ' a mastei was eigl outstand Harris, and Bem tains th~ ophonist Forth in formi Brothers that he ·.\Early} first rna; the year. Ravin~ ship,\ GE most and in 1 was a tr in any fi, In 195: Vermont' record e: corded ar Pr< Gr~ Dr. has bee grant. The g now until to financ' the mech -Tile fir Union Co paport \ the MoU11 ti 'Oratory i : he and h: i where he I rine Stat politan U t1 · Marine f: .I I. will sper Mount D to the co: ,), Res, l Dr. Ra cell divis has been 1959. Hi physical cell. Dr. R~ ;,4\..cletE~rnlin, with res1 cell; and chanism the cell. Hi's stl fertilized The a!mt vided bin J• .. Jmtms fm Onere to procu: search. ll have d01 field. A s'Cier tional S grant mt l

