.. but over- Conn. Un- '· for .the 20 points skillful down 14., his points he matched Greg r games. in' Ron trio. mrl.nute s, Trinity, grab the the Ban- , 49-45, but remoain- isplayed its opt1mism ·, especially under the won the ·) , their best better Overbeck, flu. How-•' 23 and •I } Founded at Union College 18?7 1 \ Vol. 95 - No. 13 FRIDAY, JANUARY 7, 1966 PRICE 1.5 CENTS Freshman Examine Social Regulations SC And IFC Accept A Strengthened Plan For College Council \J MARTIN ENVISION.S CHANGE ,, i I President Martin, Dean Lockwood, and Professor Weitz visited South College and discussed the p1:oposed revision of the Soci:al Rules WJ•th ap- proximately thirty freshmen and dorm counselors, the night of Janu- ary 4. The discussion came .as the result of an invitation issued by sev- eral freshmen who desil·ed to know the reasons behind the ·current rules and what the students could do to effect a change. The group discussed topics ranging from opening the dmmitories to wom- en to the general re-evaluation and reform needed in the college's ap- proach to moral and cultural educa- tion. Many Jloints of agreement were reached. It was established that the social t·egulations at present prevent normal relations and are incongru- ous with a healthy emotional at- mos.phere. The students expressed their opinions that life in dormitories which are closed to women was hard to heal'. On any weekend when a student has a date on campus, he may wish to entertain her. It was the con- sensus that there are no adequate facilities for freshmen or independent students to create a pleasant environ- ment. Lounge facilities are inade- quate, and the no~-fraternity student has Iio place to brmg a date. ,, i ----- '\53 Applicants ~Accepted For Early Decision Fifty-three applicants, from a total of ninety-eight, have been accepted under the early decision plan for ad- mission to Union in September, 1966. This figure. is thirteen per cent less than last. year, when the College ac- cepted seventy-one of 106 applicants. r.. At this time, 1025 application'S have been filed, as compared with 1170 at this time last year. These appli<!ants will be notified in April of the Admis- sion Committee's decision. The final 1 ' admissions figures for last year were: 1649 applications and 762 or forty-six percent accepted. Three hundred fifty- eight accepted, eventually matricu- lated here. Next year, the College plan's to increase the size of the fresh- man class t() 365 students. It is pos- sible that after the new dormitories ,, are complete<!, Union's freshman class will number 400. The early decision plan has b_een modified this year. It is now pos'Slble for a student applying for early de- rision to send applications to othe!' schools. However, he may apply to only one school under the early decis• ion plan, and if accepted at that school • he must withdraw his applications from the other schools. The arrange- ment has been made between Union and Williams, Amherst, Wesleyan, Trinity, Bowdoin, and Dartmouth. The final date that regular applicatio-ns may be sent to Union is February 1. It was made clear that the seed of change has been planted and will probably germinate during the re- evaluation of several rules to take place next semester. The ·students will have an opportunity to respond and to be heard. Gregory Hol:li·ster, one <Yf the organizers of the discussion, stat- ed: \Whether or not we will play a meaningful role in determining our social environment depends to a great extent on the amount of work we are willing to do. If we don't speak, the administration can only assume we are satisfied.\ \Dutiful'' Student Pre'sident Martin characterized the Union man as a \dutiful\ student, not having much creativity .or imagina- tion, but \diligent in his studies.\ Hol- lister went on to say, \If this is true, we may be doomed to stagnation. But if you would like to think otherwise, help us to demonstrate Dr. Martin's misconception. In the coming .dialogue on the social rules, do not hesitate to make your opinion heard. Responsi- ble participation may lead to success.\ Neither President. Martin nor Dean Lockwood could be certain as to the origin of the social rules as both are relatively new to the campus. It was President Maltin's guess that they are mostliY a result of tradition. He stated that a serious study of them and :P·Ossible l'evisions are \long over- due,\ hut that the feasibility and ex- tent of these revisions wil:l have to ' be carefully investigated. \In Loc() Parentis\ One of the factors inhibiting a re- VISion of the rules is the possible legal complications that co11ld result from the fact that the college is act- ing in \loco pal 1 entis.\ Horwever, it was pointed out that Rochester, Cor- nell, and Columbia all have social rules which are more liberal and have not had any legal trouble. It was felt that the new suite ·sys- tem which is to be instituted in the new dorms would be more conducive to having gids. in the rooms s:ince each group of four men would have their own private lounge. The possibility of having liquor in the dorms was also discussed. The contradiction that a student can drink liquor legally on the front steps of the dorm where anyone can see, but is not allowed to drink tlle liquor in his own room was expressed. By Robert A. Fried B<lth the Student and Tnterfrater- ni tr Councils have unanimously ac- cepted a strengthened plan for com- munity government. The revi'sed proposal creates an All- ·C()l!ege Council that would have a vet~ over the Student Council, the I. F.C., and the Faculty Council in matters \not in the academic sphere.\ The All-College Council would define academic areas. The original draft of the prop-osal, as .presented to the S.C. Monday night, pnvided for a veto over the S.C. and I.F.C., but gave the community gov- ernment the po-wer only to \request a f.acuJty legislative body to Teconsider an action.\ Under both proposals, the president of the College would have the final vet~. The All-College Council also would have the power to \recommend legis- lation to other college bodies.\ It would be able to \review and initiate appropriate action on rna tter's that affect the general college community in the area of student affail'S.\ The new plan goes before the Stu- dent Affairs Committee of the Faculty Council next week; the committee, whieh had already approved the fil'st dt~aft, must now approve the amen~­ ments. Sponsors of the proposal m the S.C. hope to have it considered by t.be full Faculty Council late next week. Combined Membership As currently envisioned, the All- College Council would be an eleven- member body with six: student mem- ber's and five from the faculty and administration. The draft re.ads a~ Contprehensive Education Progran~ Results In Course Reorganization By Joe Mann Although much has b~en publisi:ted concerning the new cUITiculum gomg into effect at Union in the fall of '66, many students still have only a va~e conception of how the new plan Wlll actually affect them. The entire year wi1l be divided into four quarters, with the academic year made up of the fall, winter and spring terms. A total of 36 courses is re- quired for graduation and a normal subject load will consist of three courses for each of the terms. Some ,students may carry more than the normal load. For example, honor stu- dents may take four courses each term with permission and engineers an extra half-unit coru·se if interested. These latte1· engineering courses are not full load sll!bjects. Not all courses will be different next year: many 'Of the standard courses will remain much the same although they may be altered in the future. Each course in a term will be a complete unit, roughly equivalent to a present one-semester course. Subjects are being re-organized in one of two ways. First, a course will be somewhat modifie-r! so that a one semester course will fit into one ten week term and a two seme~ter course into two of the terms. Thus, four- teen weeks of class are being com- pressed into ten. The number of classes will vary; for exampl€ there may be four or five weekly meetings rather than the usual three or four. Also, some classes may meet for dif- ferent time intervals throughout the week as opposed to the three or four fixed fifty minute classes now in ef- fect. Or secondly, some departments are changing their programs radically to fit the new system. Parts of present courses may be eliminated and intro- ductory work reduced in some areas. Major field requirements may- also be changed. Sophomores Have Choice According to next fall's schedule, all present freshmen will be complete- ly 'converted\ to the new program. Present sophomores will have a choice of electing the new system or pursu- ing the present requirements for their maj~r fields. Some <lepartmen ts plan to cnange their major requirements and sophomores thus may find it ad- vantageous to switch to the new sys- tem. In regard to present major J'e- quirements, S(}phomores may either ta:ke their previously required courses, which will be fitted into the three term schedule, '()r they may take an equivalent course designated by the <leiJartment. If a needed comse is no longer offered, the requirement will be waivEld. Mem hers of the Class of '67 will co11ti nue with their necessary courses whic'h will be fitted into the new s~hedule. By September 1967, all but Continued on Page 5, Col. 1 Construction Is Lagging 'Skid~nore Catnpus Opens As of January 3 this year, the '·enerable institution of Skidmore moved at least part of its dormitory facilities to a less vulnerable position. The new Skidmore campus, which now consists of only one completed residence quadrangle, is located ap- proximately three miles from the old campus. Academic buildings have not Yet been constructed on the new col- lege site and students living in the new dormitories must commute to classes. Shuttle buses, supplied by the college, run between the two cam- puses twice an hour for thi's purpose. Common Lounge The dormitory system in the new campus is vastly different from the homes that lined Saratoga's streets. and houses Skidmore's student popu- lation. The first completed residence quadrangle consists of four dorms and a commons building. There are no reception lounges in the separate dor- mitories but rather one large lounge in the Kathryn H. Starbuck Center, the commons building, where girls must go to meet their dates. Due to the change in residence halls and the general shift in the lo- cation of the college, several Skid- more students have expressed dissatis- faction with the mDve. Some feel that \it may cut down on the number of boys coming to Skidmore\ while others foresee difficulty in getting to \sour hour\ every Friday. In addi- tion, some girls have complained of Continued on Page 5, Col. 6 Hindered by a strike and an inability to re-1\ire new laborers, the construction ~f the two new dormitory C()lllplexes on Ael!illes Field progresses slowly. The original completion date of September, 1966, has had to be pushed bacl1 to later in the fall. When the dormitories will be ret~d:y for occupancy is tmlmown with more difficult winter months still ahead. Con:struetion of the new Humanities and Social Science Centers is also behind sc:IIedtde. f0Uo0ws: \The faculty members will be the Dean and Provost of the Col- lege, t:he Dean of Students, and three othe1· members of the Faculty elected by ihe ~acuity. \The student members shall be: The President of the I.F.C .• two stu- den-ts of the Student Council elected by the Student Council, and two mem- bers elected by general election from the Student Body.\ The chairman wo·uld he the president of the S.C., who would vote only in the event of a tie. Ed Clark, '66, who ha's helped steer the community government proposal throug-h the myriad groups that must approve it, said at the S;C. meeting Monday that the A.Jl-College Council \wi]l provide primarily for communi- cations.\ The council is envisioned as a \superstr-ucture\ to provide for ·bet- ter coll!munications within the cam- pus comrnunity. Faculty Veto Lacl!ing A_ heated debate developed over why the original draft had given the All-·College Council a veto over two student gr~ups, the S.C. and, the I.F.C. and not over the Faculty Council. In ans·wer to the objections of ·some rep- resentatives, Clark said ... Tl!e differ- ence between not using the word 'veto' is si1nply a consideration of get- ting- this thing passed.\ This state- ment raised more objections than it answered. 'I'he feeling-s of several rep- resentatives were summed up by Mar- tin Pinson, who said, \I think you're compromising your principle when you pui; a veto in one place and not in the other in o1·der to get it passed.\ T-wD .changes in the wording were proposed in order to elilllinate this objection: granting the All-College Council a veto over all thl'ee groups, C()ntinned on Page 5, CAll. 1 U.S. Justice To Describe Red Russia By William Lasn.ik Associate Justice 1>f the United States SUP,l'eme Court \William 0. Douglas -w1ll speak on \Russian Im- pressiolls\ February 1, at 11:30 A.M. in Memorial Chapel. Ajppointe!l by Franklin D. Roose- velt in 1939, Justice Douglas has serv.ed as an Assodate Justice for 26 yeaJ.\\s and has been a member of the lilberal bloc on the court. Jastice ])ougl.as is the author of num·erD'us magazine a1·ticl·es, and has written fourteen books. His recent works include Russian Jourue y (1956), My Wildemess: The Pat:ific West, A Livi11g Bill of Rights, and Democracy's Manifesto. JtJsti.:e Douglas has spent much time st11dying culture's throughout the Middle East, Southeast Asia and Cen- tral Asia. He bas travelled extensive- ly in tl!ese areas, and has been able to (}bserve the p.eople of these lands, their customs, outlooks, and economic syst~ms, in addition to learning about the political structures of the govern- ments in thElse a:reas. Born in Maine, Minnes<:Jta, Justice Douglas attended grade and high se<h~ols in \Yakima Washington. He received his A.B. from Wl!itman Col- lege in 1920, and in 1925 his L.L.B. frooo Columbia L.aw School, where his specialty was the study of rela- tions betwecen law and business. He has since })een awarded 11 honorary degrees from various colleges and uni- versities. Justice J).ouglas has served on the facalties of Columbia Law School and Yale I.,.aw School. While .at Yale, he conducted various studies of bank- ruptcy for William J. Donovan, U. S. Department. of Commerce, Yale In- stitute of Human Relations and the National Commission on Law Observ- ance and Enfo·l•cement. From 1937-39, he was Direct(n' of the Protective Committee Study, Sei!Ul\ities & Ex- change Commission. His re\search led to :;reoxganization of the Stock Ex- change. · I J il J I' : i 't! i , I ! ! i l ! 1: ,,

2 P.residential Report: Imagination and Initative: The Key To Greatness By President Harold C. !VIartin In a good college, students' expectations are fulfilled· in a great one, they are refined and eultivat~d. Fulfillment, alone, strains the re- sources of most colleges, for the expect~tions ~f the young a1·e ordinarily larger than the1r readt- n~ss to realize them. It is, then, no small enc~­ mium to say of any college that, b;v and l~rge, 1t satisfies the l'elevant needs and des1res of Its stu- dents .. Few colleges do that much; .those tha~ ~lo, therefore, well deserve the pubhc recogmtwn they soon acquire. What is the route by which a college rises above fulfillment .of the expectation·s, known t.o and assumed by students, to refinement and culti- vation of them? It is tempting ~o set~le for the easy proposition that better pavmg. w1ll suffice, and here can be no doubt that ~uan~1t;.r ~f m?ney converts into quality of educatwn,, 1£ 1t IS w1se~y managed. But there is ample ev1dence that t e higher achievement takes more ~han money, and there is even good evidence that It can be reached by othe1· means. Two Vital Considerations keen only if it is unappeased or is constantly dis- covering new and better objects of de'sire. F11ture Hopes What the faculty- has done in two years of curricular planning will, I am C()nfi.dent, material- ly increase the range of intellectual stimuli avail- able to students. What the Conce1·ts and Lectures committee now provides already offers more than most are taking advantage of. A larger part of the initiative must now come fmm students them- selves. Not every entel'prise they dream up will arouse interest ol\\ gain support, no matter who does the dreaming, :but if two pt·ojects out of five bear fruit, the climate will 1·egister change. It is not in the nature of all men to be pioneers and risk-takers, and a. community that has nothing else soon dissolves. But there is room aplenty here at Uni(}n College for more invention, more play of imaginati()n, and that alone will substa·n- tially change the atmosphere. The healthy col- lege life i's not one of contentment but u[ excite- ment. It entails not the ready- satisfaction of un- refined expectations but the cultivation of new and better oneR. In that we all share common cause. Friday, January 7, 1966 Congressional Contest: 46 Inch Bust L·ost Due to the tremendous response to out· Letters to Politicians contest, judging has taken longer than expected. Below we proudly p1•esent the winning letter submitted by Marty Harold '62 who wins the latest hook by Nigel Spume, \How to Knit Your Own Zeppelin.\ The runner up )Jrize of a 46\ high paper mache bust of Not·man Thomas was not awarded because it was lost. Dear Mr. Water Commissioner, In my apartment I have a leaking faucet, but not knowing much about plumbing nor money to get it fixed I have saved all the water in jars and pails and cans and things as I know we have a water shortage. I was going to bring the water down to your of- fice because my room is very full with all those cans and things and my arm is hurt so I can't. Will you send someone to pick them up. Truly yours, Charlie Mayne. Dear Mr. Mayne, We are glad that you are a concerned citizen and aware of the water shortage in this city. The water that is supplied to you is fi.lten~,d by the most modern methods and is perfectly safe for health. The water which .you so patriotically want to return would have to be refiltered at our water reservoir even though I am sure you have taken proper hygene measures in storing it. The cost of doing this would be prohibitive. I suggest you use the water to water some of the trees that line our fair .city's streets which a'lso have been suffering from the drought. Yom's truly, John S. Lyndon Assistant deputy- commissioner of water supply- and flirtation. Jazz, Rhythm, and Literature rrythms are used, and in the Raven by Poe we have one which is, iike jazz, syncopated. .. : i I r \ ' . We hope that in the near future we shall ha>:e more money to work with at Union College, bft 1t i's important to recognize th~t money m.ore o te~ follows than precedes the eVIdence of v1gor. Fhr that reason an obligation lies on us to make td e mo~t now 'of the. strong 1:esource.s we alrea Y have The immedwte questwns for us, then, are two. · What more can we do th~n we. are now doing with our present resources . Which among the many things we might. do are .those most likely to make a significant dtfferencE' m the qual- ity nf life here~ The English major, especially the Union _College English major, rapidly learns to r:ecogmze and understand symb()lism, metaphor, 1mager;y-, and parallelism in literature. In fact these literary tools are so effective and important that he soon finds them amusing, if not valuable, methods of interpreting the w<Jrld .. Rather.than at~empt s~ch a difficult interpretatiOn, th1s English maJor would be content to draw a few parallels between the two arts of literature and music. in music is fundamental to a proper rendition of a particular tune. In the s.poken language, how- ever, it is not quite as important. We can under- stand without too much difficulty the English as spoken by Englishman, .Southerner or Bostonian. \ONCE uPON a MIDnight DREAry 1 WHILE I PONdered WEAK and WEAry\ • This rhythm, trochaic, is less natural than After seven months of pleasant and ~usy work on campus I would say that the really Imp01·tal!t difference 'between w.hat L'nion College now JS ·md what it can become i:; more a matter of at- :nosphere than of an~thing el~e. We already have a good faculty, and it grows stronger ~very ~ear. nur student body i::; intelligent and mdu'Stnous. The phy:oical plant, though not so complete as we hope to make it, serves .our great:s~ needs 1 -easonably well; and the equ1pmcnt fm .mstruc- tion is nowhere gros~ly inadequ.ate and .m many 1 !epartments clearlr of vPry _h1gh qu~hty: Yet there is, in my vie'.\', ~omPthmg larkmg m the •reneral ·spirit of the College that make~ these human and physical resources seem leRs ncb and lPss \'~lna:hll' than thE-y really are. Poetry is the language which is most exacting rhythmically, and in this sense poetry comes closest to music. This, of course, is why a proper recitation of Keats, for instance, will sound musi- cal, and if you can respond, beautiful. iambic pentameter, and its movement seems to suggest an awareness or anticipation. What- ever it suggests in poetry, in musk it produces • r the characteristic beat of jazz, Svncooated Mvsic Both music and literature are distinct from the other fine arts in that their appeal depends upon sound. Literature is, on a basic level, the written expression of the vocal sounds produced by man in communication. In this ~en.se even. the Concordiensis is literature because 1t 1s a wl'ltten communication of sach .sounds. Although even en- gineers and econ.omic majors can. often avo~d vocalization when bhey read, the prmted word 1s still a symbol for the various. vocal vibrati?ns that man is ca'pable of. And 1n communcat10n, these vibrations h.ave to respond to some pattern familiar to other men. Any such pattNn nf ,-numls i~ then a language. The poet chooses his words with an eye, or more correctly, an ear, for rhythm. Now, you might certainly ask what does all this have to do with jazz ~ Very much, for this is the easiest way for one non-musician to explain to other non-music- ians why jazz sounds different than traditional Western music. The rhytrm of jazz is synco- pated. This means simply that it is in four fourths time, (four beats to a measure). Syncopated music has a more noticeable rhythm and makes you want to tap your foot or dance. . ,. The appeal of a more vigorous and lively mus1c Confidence Needed Musical Communication . . The first and third beats of a measure are stressed, whereas in most other music the accent is placed on the second and fourth beats. The sound of this is scarcely capable of being com- municated on paper unless we draw one more parallel between music and literature. Consider the rhytrm of the following lines from Chaucer: 'TeeH~E. quod SHE, and CLAPTE the WINdowe TO And AB solON gooth FORTH a SOry PA8. to dance to was, in fact, the most important rea- son the white audiences of the late twenties and thirties accepted jazz. ¥ The Europeans, who have alway~ prided them- selves on discovering the best quahtJes of Amer- ica before even the Americans themselves were aware of them, have responded enthusiastically to the new beat. The jazz musician in Europe to- • day is held in much higher regard than he is in the united States, and naturally enough many of them prefer to live there. This, of course,,provides us with our final par~llel. The Am~n~an-born t European jazzmen fall mto the expatrJOtJc group along with Eliot, Hem!ng>vay, ~itzgerald . and others concerned with thr expressmn of written sounds. · At bottom. what lacks is a ~enoe of a~s_uranCL, and that 1:; ::wmething no o1w c<..~n PU!llP mto a~1 1 nstitution like ga:; mtu an autom!'b1_le. AssUI- anre is an l)Utcume. In a colleg-e, 1t !'::i the out· ,~ 0 me, mule than anythiu~ el~e. uf '!- mmd-set ?nrl a habit t>f al't;un. Wht.:le peuplt.: bl'l.tl'\'e .t~at ~JOh­ [,•m::. l'all bl' ~,,lveu, the natural d1sposJt1o!l lR tn ,;et about ~uh'ing them. Where they realtze. the .~atisfactiun that wme,; ~rom. l'nergr rreatlvel~T 1 ·xpandcd, they lu~e n•' llmt' 111 fin~.Jng a\·enueR for it;; expre;:;siull. When· that bchPf an~ th~t no>al izatiun are absent or half :hcartPrl,, life 1s largely dutiful response to routine and Irntable fending off of frustrations. N? assuranee can come out of it because no re~1l mdependenrf' anrl <'XC'i temPnt a l'P genented by It. .\lu:;ic is also a :pattem of sounds whJCI! IS used fur communication. Composers of both Jazz an!J classical music use their art as a mea1~s of self- expressiun 1111d so you c.~re not s~eakmg ~;ta. pho1·ically when yull refer to the 'Jangu~ge of music.\ Like othet- languagues, mU;SIC has 1ts own literature which i~ written expres1son of sounds. lt is an internatioiJal language which can be reau and 11nderstood l>y anyone who knows how to react it. Since both arts can the1·efore blend into one, we should attempt to distinguish the t~o. If we must, we preserve the analogy by saymg that music depends more upon _form than c.:mtent. It is an ideal means of expressmg beaut:y: or emo· tion. Literature on the other hand rehes mono on content rather than form. Therefore, the com- munication we receive from music is often vague or general while literature provides us with 1·athel\ specific ideas or images. Each syllable in upper case letters is aceent<!d whereas the other syllables receive no stress. The rhythm produced is a natural one, and be- . -~ H 1 •n• li\·' thl' poir1t about tlw n•finenwnt ann cultivation of expectations. A cuu!1try mar rea- sonably expect every man to do h1s duty; a C?l- lege must expect more - both to do more fo.r Its Rtudents and to J'ece.ive m~ll:e fl'Dm them. Neither in·struction nor the prov1s:on !)f . reso'!rces can stop at fulfillment. The mmd 1s 111 th1s respect like the stomach: those who hope. only .to appea~e its hunget· c-an easily. kill appet!te w1th surfeit. Intellectual. like phys1cal, appet1te can be kept Co-Eds Reject Sex The most exciting- part of this analogy com~s when we consider that both language and mus1c employ rhythm. Rhythm is, of course,, natural to man. His heart be.ats, and he breathes m a rhyth- mical pattern, which if brol{en, destroys him. So when he S'}leaks he often unconsciously patterns the sounds of his speech on a certain rhythm. Therefore the stt·ange accent which occurs when ,.;ome()ne ~peaks a foreign language is a result of his use of his native speech rhythms with the sounds of his new tongue. The Southern accent HALIFAX-According to a poll in the Dalhousie developed from th.e sounds of the Mrican speak- Gazette neurlv thirty per cent of all co-eds prefer ing English with his natural Africi.an rhy~hm. In \l \qu.iel inteilectual l'onversationalist\ on a date, fact the different sounds of Enghsh which can ~ 1 s oppose1l to four per cent who prefer a \forward be heard through<Jat this country and the world cause of this, iambic pentameter is used ft·equent- ly in poE'try-. For different effects different ~.......,#..........,~,..,., .. ~ .. ,.~.,..,.~,.~-###........,,.,,,.,...., .. R~ale's LARGEST SELECTION OF CAMERAS IN THE CAPITOL DISTRICT Dark Room Supplies - Jewelry - Gifts - Hi Fi Equipment Open 11 A.M. to 9 P.M.- Sat. 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. 1957 FOSTER AVENUE D'AMICO'S TEXACO SERVICE ffftTffifYfftt¥1ttt•TT• FRANK FERRARO Wholesale and Retail Fruits and Produce type primarily interested in sex.\ II~; response to is due more to different rhythm patterns than an enquirv as tu how many cunseeut1ve dates .are to diffel'ent pronunciation. - Fresh Daily - necessary' !Jefore they will neck, twelve per cent More Rhvthmical Twice Daily on Campus ROAD SERVICE will neck on the first date, forty-two per cent on To draw the analogy then we can observe the the second, and only thirty per cent only after obvious fact that rnusic, even more than language, 1757 Van Vranken Ave. · thil·d or late1·. Also noted was that forty per cent depends on rhythm. In fact, music literature is 1231 CRANE STREET of the hundred co-eds interviewed preferred dates superior to v_:erbal literature. in this .sense. because Phone FR 2-9767 Schenectady, N. Y. to the theati'e or movies, and 1 per cent preferred written mus1c always prov1des a trme signature \intercourse.\ The Gazette is C'nnada's olrlest which specifies to the musician exactly how a 01 6-1763 college newsp~a~p~e~r~·~~~~==~~·~~~~~~~,.;p~ie~c=e~i~s~t~o~b~e~p~la~y~e;d;.~T~~h~et~i~m~i~n~g~of~t~h~e~s~ou;n~d;s~~~~~~~;;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;;~~ Jay BUY TWO [2] MIKE'S Jewelry 315 STATE STREET Co. GET ONE FREE ;})iamoncL o •• GOOD AT ANY MIKE'S GIANT SUBMARINE STORE OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate Importer and Wholesaler. the Arnold Fisher '50 JIM XAVIER (Ch.E.) of the '62 Bethlehem \Loop\ Course is an engineer at our Sparrows Point, Md. plant- biggest in the world. He's typical of young men on the move at Bethlehem Steel. Seniors and graduate students in engineering and non-technical curricula will soon be interviewed for the 1966 Bethlehem Loop Course. We offer splendid career opportunities in steel plant operations, research, sales, mining, accounting, and other activities. For detailed information, pick up a copy of our booklet, \Careers with Bethlehem Steel and the Loop Course,\ at your Placement Office. An Equal Opportunity Emp,oyer in the Plans for Progress Program BETHLEHEM STEEL ,, ' l Friday, '] I Garl the Fa ings w inEE Day (17th ( fesses town c accuseE The th, the pal townsp ·unfaith that sl Drey dustry ability. tumes, of his duced the N his m, Day critical York ' use of has me in terr Richar said, \ and pi· One oi cinema The Series Golden of Dr. tor of for ne: directe also st expand hody e the Stl H: As I subscri: cini's r heard profess But, tl:J shaky: reach i this B in ordE nately It is for the ance, f1 to any opposit vidual accept~ that M in the necessi •with ~ometh formar ing thE as Min

y 7, 1966 in plied to water return water ou have it. hibitive. some streets the of \ r Tony Bucca s by Poe we ted. • I WEAry\ natural than seems What- it produces • eable rhythm or dance. lively mUSIC rea- twenties and prided them- lr ies of Amer- were Europe to- • he is in many of provides merican-born · group • and of written •J . ,\ (Ch.E.) parrows -biggest typical the move and will for Loop splendid in steel research, with the Plans for gram HEM • ,, ! ' J '· J l Friday, J<inuary 7, 1966 3 'Day of Wrath~ Ends Semester M-ovie Series ~Tis No Mere Man YoU Attack' \ ~() ~OT ~eEl<. 1\t) t-\ARM YOU'. Bt\ ,-~~~71 ~E.ASO,KT\SLE! Danish Production Made Under Nazis Gar! Theodore Dreyer's Day of Wrath will close the Fall season of the Union Film Series, Show- ings will begin this evening at 7 p.m. and 9 p.m. in EE 22. Day of '\Vr.ath concerns witchcraft in a small (17th century) Danish town. An old woman con- fesses that she is a witch after being tortured by town ·officials. Before she is put to death, sh'e accuses the parson's wife of being a sister witch. The theme of obsession and guilt is developed as the parson's wife reacts to the suspicions of the townspeople and her own remorse af.ter being -unfaithful to her husband. She eventually believes that she is a witch. Dreyer has won the admiration of the film in- dustry with his briHiant screenplays and directing ability. His use of photography, .settings, cos- tumes, and groups are superlative and indicative of his cinematic genius, Day of Wrath was pro- duced in Denmark, with great difficulty, during the Nazi occupation. The film is considered his most popular work. World-Wide Acclaim Day of Wrath received world-wide enthusiastic critical accla·im. Said Theodore Huff of the New York Times, \Probably the most extraordinary use of thtl camera in all film history. • . No film has mote successfully captured an histo1•ical epoch in tempo, gesture, costume and atmo~nherP ... \ Richard Winnington of the London News Chronicle said, \Will ravage you with its power of horror and pity and will haunt you with its beauty. , . One of the great experiences of the frustrated cinema enthusiast.\ The Sol'ing semester will feature nine Fnm Series shows, including such classics as: The Golden A.ge of Comedy, Rififi, and The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari. Matthew Katz, student co-ordina- tor of t'he Series, requested that suggestions for next yeal''s film selections and scheduling be directed to him in care of Phi Epsilon Pi. He also suggested that the Series could possibly be expanded in quantity and quality if the student body expressed some desil·e for this, to him and the Student Council. Opera; By Paul Sherwin In case you haven't .sampled any Qf the Marvel Comic Group, let this review of the last three issues of \The Mighty Thor\ suffice as an intro- duction. Thor, God of Thunder, son of the great Norse god Odin (the one with the bristling beard), comes to earth (he's actua]ly been :here for quite a while) with powers far beyond those of mortal men. Perhaps the greatest trouble with Thor is that he devotes himself to maintaining truth, justic and the American way (or maybe the Norwegian way?). Secretly disguised as Dr. Don Blake, the mighty Thor, whose very bones were formed in the eternal land of A.sgard (which, incidentally, lies somewhere out in the infinite void) rallies himself to cataclysimic: action when- ever truth or justice is being th1:eatened some- where on Earth. In issue 125 (February, 1966), the immortal son of Odin avenged himself on the Demon whose uprising in Southeast Asia was beginning to threaten the Viet N am situation. This is the kind of stuff Thor does; and, yet, his fatal flaw, his love for the Earthling Jane Foster, saves him from receiving the annllal Northeast- ern- United States-dullard-award. Even a guy like Thor can have his prohlems. A Brief Episode Issue 124 finds Thor in .New Yo1k City reading the Evening Post. Here he reads .that the un- known \Demon\ (actually a misguided witch- doctor who has gotten hold of Thor•s magic Norn Stone) is unleashing plundering jungle ho1·des throughout Asia. When a crowd gathers around the mighty Thunder God, a little girl whose daddy has been wounded in Viet Narn pleads with Thor to uphold the lamp of liberty .. so be it! li'Ioments later, Thor waves the crowd back! \Stand clear! It is time for me to swing my hammer!!\ says the mighty Thor. Hines Shines At Met Boheme Louis Mela.ncon, New York Heidi U:rall flirts with Sandor Konya during the second act of LA BOHEME. As I left the Met after a no.n- subscri:ption performance of Puc- cini's masterpiece, La Boheme, I heard one viewer remark, \very professional. Very professional!\ But, thou.p;h it picked up after a shaky first act, it never semed to reach the degree of passion that this Bohemian love-story needs in order to overcome its :inordi- nately sentimental plot. It is hard to attrlbute blame for the failings of this perform- ance, for its failings were not due to any one singer. In fact, the opposite is true as all the indi- vidual pel'fo1·mances were quite acceptable. No doubt the fact that Mr. Fausto Cleva became ill in the middle of the first act, necessitating his replacemen.t •with Mr. George Schick, had mmething to do with the per- formance\s inability to jell. Lead- ing the cast was Renata Tebaldi as Mimi It was obvious that she \\\as the darling of the audience from the moment she stepped on the stage, and she deserved that confidence. Her voice was strong and solid, fully equal to the de- mands made upon it. Especially appreciated by this writer was the J.'ich mellowness of her lower registers. Sandor Konya played the male lead of Rodolfo, Mimi's lover. Although his acting left much to be desired, his singing showed a sensitive awareness of Rodol·· fo's tender feelings. He was par- ticularly effective in the moving third-act duet with Miss Te·baldi. For me, the star of the perform- ance was Jerome Hines, who played the philosophic Colline. His full, deep voice brought beauty and dignity to his role. Especially noteworthy, and rare, was his fine acting ability. On a stage that has seen far too much wooden acting and overdone \business he was excellent, whether be was stll::f.ftng himself after a long, poverty-imposed fast or fondly stroking nis worn oYercoat before pawning it to buy medicine for tbe d::ving Mimi. Heidi Krall, who debuted at the Met in 1953 as the winner of the Metropolitan Opera Audi- tions of the Air, was a beautiful and charming Muset;ta, especially as she frolicked gaily across the stage in Act II. L~»rell~o Alvary auu Andrea VeLs, as .uenun and Alcinadoro, made \the most -of their parts. This production ~i La Boheme was a solid and good one. If the review has sometimes sounded negative, it is due to the fact that one ex'Pects 1nore than this from the Metropolitan, and the viewer is spoiled by their gen- erally excellent of[erings. But even as Thor speaks, a policeman (no dGubt a loyal servant) can he seen approaching the Thunder God from behind: \Oh no you don't!\ he says. \Hold it, fella! This is the Law!\ Can a mere mortal interfere with the monu- mental plans of Asgard's very own son? \Let's see your license to give a public dem- onstration in the street!\ persists this civic pro- tector. \License?? I have no license! I am Thor!'' re- plies the undaunted Thunder God. \I don't care if you're Mother Hubbard! You're not gonna do any hammer-swingin' on my beat, mister!\ A Rhetorical Question Will Thor consider the public weal, (Jr will he choose to take advantage of his immortality? \Perhaps you are right!\ says Thor. \There is always a chance of one being injured due to the surging air currents my mallet creates!\ And now he thinks: \It will be a simple matter to launch myself from a high roof-top instead!\ As Thor contemplates, the policeman advises some spectators to cease their astonished gaping: \Move along! Move along! Aintcha ever seen a Thunder God before?!!\ Lest the reader should be verily overwhelmed by any more snatches of dialogue, I shall merely provide a brief synopsis of the action that occurs in issues 124, 125 and 126. Issue 124: I've already told you the beginning -The mighty Thor swings his hammer (now he's on a roof-top) and hurls himself to the hospital room of Jane Forster (as every loyal Marvellite knows, lovely Jane Foster has suffered from smoke inhalation as shown in Thor, 122)-Jane can't go on because Thor (now in his mortal ident- ity) seems to be hiding something from her- Thor undergoes some intense psychological tor- ment: shall he reveal to her his true identity even though such an act is forbidden by Odin's brist- ling beard ~-He docs-Odin (still in Asgard) becomes peeved-Thor flies to Southeast Asia- As he proceeds at an unbelievable speed through the skies he starfes Zeus on Mount Olympus- Zeus decides (for some reason) to send Hercules to Earth (maybe because he's pretty bored with the battle between Hercules and Ajax that has been going on for centuries)-Thor meets the Demon. Will Thor Emerge Victorious? Issue 125: Thor achieves his conquest-Her- cules startles some people by riding on the New York Central Railroad-Thor returns to Asgard and is bawled out by. Odin for revealing himself to a mere female Earthling-Thor blasts his way out of Asgard to return to his beloved-Hercules makes a big hit as a folk-singer-Hercules falls in love with Jane Forster and she falls under his spell-Thor returns and makes his challenge to the son of Zeus. Issue 1-26: Since this issue is now at your local newsstands, I shall only say that the clash of the titans is something to behold: Hercules has come to earth! He's got the big eye for Thor's chick! Goldilocks is bugged, but goodi .So they're going to fight it out! Who dare express the fearsome- ness of this battle? Who dare express what psy- chological torment it inflicts upon the mighty Thunder God? The Problem .• , Now what about all this? Although the Marvel Comics have been around for many years, they have become exceedingly popular only recently, Human Rights A representative from the N.Y. State Com- mission for Human Rights will speak to students in ·Sociology 34 next Thursday. He will discuss the work of the commission in combatting dis- crimination in jobs, housing and public accomoda- tions in the local area. All students are invited to attend the talk from 7:00 to 8:30 P.M. in Eailey Hall 202. especially among the college crowd. What could have caused all this? The popularity of the new \Batman\ movie may have something to do with this pro;blem, but it seems that this is more a symptom of something larger than a cause in itself. Pop Art, for one thing, helped to put the comic book in vogue. But this, too, was probably not sufficient to cause such a startling change in the reading habits of millions of intelligent peo- ple. I'm not sure of the answer to this problem, nor am I sure that there is any clearly discernible and isolatable answer, but it all can be considered under the general heading of things that are \camp.\ The peculiar intermingling of bombast and colloquialisms that we encountered in Thor, the fantastic physical and psychological struggle of the incomparable Spiderman, the ridiculousness ·of the papier mache Hulk, have somehow attract- ed the attention of American youth of the 1960's, just as the movies of Humphrey Eogart and the Marx Brothers have. There are some very sig- nificant influences acting here, and I believe that the problem merits some serious consideration by psychologists and sociologists. Anyhow, this was just supposed to be an introduction to \The Mighty Thor\; so let the matter rest here. So be it! 2-S? Weslyan Rift Rages Over Social Rules The student governing body at Wesleyan Uni- versity announced new dormitory hours for stu- dents last week after a faculty committee had cut back the curfew. The student judiciary is enforcing the student- made hours and a bitter controversy between faculty and students is looming. Rules concerning dormitory .hours vary with faculty-student relationships at different colleges. Students at Swarthmore have no weekday hours, but may have members of the opposite sex in their rooms from 12 noon to 6 p.m. on Saturday and from 7 p.m. to midnight on Sunday. At Haverford, students enjoy complete control of their hours, which were unlimited until 10 years ago, when they voted to institute hours to curb noisy, late night parties. Williams men may have women in their rooms until midnight on Saturday nights, and on College holiday weekends the hours are extended on both Friday and Saturday nights. The bewitching hour is also the curfew for Yale men and their dates. 1 35 ERIE BOULEVARD DEWITT'S Boulevard Bowl Let the lager- freely Row. Down to Lollis', let us go, Cafeteria and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages 118- 120 JAY STREET .......... ········ ., ................ ,. .......... . 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PReMISES A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since l 895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Large parties accommodated in our RATHSKELLER For reservations phone FR 4-8917 ·--------------------------------------------~~~~------------------------------------------~ ,, L L ! I ;I·' , I :11 '' ' ! ' I I i' 'l

4 Friday, January 7, 1966 Published Fridays during the l!cbool :yea.r by the Student Eody o! Union Colleg-e, Schenectady, N. Y. Na- tlonnl Advertising Representative: .NatiDnal Advertising Service, Inc., Colleg-e Publishers Representative, «2~ M:ndison Ave., N. Y. C. Editorial Oftlce, Old Gym, Union College, Publication Office, Scb.e· nectady Println~r Company, 5C2 Broadway, Entered In the Scb.e· neotady Poet Office as Second CIILI!I· Mall Matter. Subscription 15c a copy: $S a year delivered anYWhere In the United States. SENIOR BOARD BARRY NEW :MAX '67- ......... 346·9969 ................................ Edltor-ln-Chie:t JEFFREY SPECTOR '66 ....................... :!77-4392 ........................ Business Manager MAR.R ICASOWITZ '67 .................................................................................. Newe Editor ROBER. T STOLZBERG '6 7 ...................................................................... Feature Editor AND'Y COLB '67 .......................................................... - ............................... Sports Editor PAUL SHERWIN '67 ................................................................................ Llterary Editor ARNOLD RATZ '66 .............................................................................. ConsultlnC' Editor MATT.ffEW KATZ '67 .................................................................................... Page Editor HENRY' FERGUSON '50 ...................................................................... Faculty Advisor JUNIOR BOARD :liiorty Kamzan '67 ...................................................................... Assistant News Editor Stevb.en Granger '66 ............................................................................ Contt·!buting Editor Donald Schwartz '67 .............................................................. Asslstant Literary Editor RobDrt Rosenthal '67 .................................................................... Subscript!on Manager Joseph ~hacter '6 7 .......................................................... N a tiona! Advertising Manager Steve11 Arkoff • 67 .......................................................................... Circulation Manager Kennetb. Bousquet '68 .................................................................... Photography Editor Letters To The Editor Viet Nam Views I I know only one fact. Former natll..l'c seeks to organize and un-' responsible lout so intent in his To the Editor: President Diem, with the support ders'tand' his experiences in mean- pathological hatred of anything The last issue of Concordieusis of the United States government, in_gtfJUI ]>atterns in coming to that brings pleasure missed by carried a front-page report on broke the Geneva agreement by teTlll:S with his environment. nine days. Burns was .bol'n on the Viet Nam activity at the college refusing to hold .free elections in Wb~-tl\er it he. in the sense of 25th. Furthermore this pygmy- in which I was surprised to find South Viet Nam in 1956. I be- Cb~stt:an: e~h1c _preac~e~ by ninded journalist, if he merits to myself being quoted several .lieve (though I am not positive) Chl:I:st, au exlstentwl bellet suen be called a member of that pro- . that Viet Cong \infiltration\ into as (;a.nlus's (et. al.), or like. fession tried to make a moclcery bmes. Among other things, I was the South was extremely limited Abrah~m\s reply to Yahveh, we .' h d quoted as an opponent of \burn prior to 1956. Ho Chi Minh felt mllst ,c<Jtnmite ourselves to some- out o.f ~ e Troglo yte Company your draft card parties.\ consid- no reason to \infiUrate\ into the thing! ,Each person must decide by prmtmg quotes out of context. ering them \a political expression South since he wa:s sure it would tCl h. e:'p this \madness\ of man The Troglodyte Company has a:l- of Beatlemania.\ I also \added turn Communist in any free elec- to see power and control of ways produced products of the according to your reporter, that tion. others, ·OJ: to oppose it. Admit- highest quality and will continue \lack of reaction does not mean Nonetheless, the Diem govern- te<ll?-, in doi-ng· so we will be to do so. Wake up Stephen a lack of concern\ on the part ment did not hold elections and m2,king; the . same decision that Granger. Wake up Concordiensis. of Union College students. The the Geneva Committee on Indo- gene:ratiol1s before us have made Douglas Stewart and, ]Jrobably genemtions after • ar,ticle also suggests that I believe china did not re.port maJ'.or \infii- 'II k 0 d · · h us W\J 111.a e. · ur ec1srons most' Mr. Granger replies: t at \most young Americans con- tra tion\ into the South prior to 1''-1 'II ' 95 6 Af d · l<>:e :Y \Wl · not chang-e man, but Mr. Stewart makes pe1·tinent sider the battle in Viet Nam un- 1 · terwar is a different each r>ne of us mast make a B b hd just.\ story. What Ho Chi 1\'linh was not coll1ooit.anent to a belief nonethe- comments on ·urns' irt ay. Let me state clearly that I given he decided to grab. less·. Ltn conclusion, therefore, I However, my article was written have said none of these things; One other fact we can barely . coll1rnit. myself to opposing the to show how the sick society in in fact, I do not think that the see through the mist of fantasies \·madness•• d power, first within this country had made a mess and propaganda. Neither side ]'f d d t f Ch · t ,... St t• Beatles, beatniks, or Bolshev1'ks m:yse an sec0n , in ()others. ou o rrs mas . ..tur. ewar . s really cares for the .peasants ex- t• d · d l'b 1 have much to do with student t · r· · ran mg an ravmg an 1 e ous cep m P 0 !tical terms. If either :Bob Borofsl\y '66 tone of his. letter indicated that demonstrations or the lack of side did, they would let them live them. · in peace. I suspect that the South he is a member of this siclt band In case you are interested in Vietnamese peasant knows as lit- Rc:mfillg and Raving of microcephalic ants. my view, it boils down to this: tle about what this war means I grudgingly support the Ad- as we do. To tl1e ~~dit:or: Power Grabs ministration's policy if it aims at. What does this indicate? It a peaceful settlement of the Viet suggests to me that the idealistic 1 ~ote' that in your last issue th2t upst2rt Stephen Granger ir Final Exams Nam crisis. I do not think that aims of both sides are a facade College professors are very prudent people. They we can or that we should at- for seeking political control. hate to be rushed and they refuse to be romanced away tempt to buHd a liberal democra- What the United •States had it from anything which is rightfully theirs. With tireless tic society in that part of the did not want to give up, and what world, or that we should justify the Communists were not given caution they have been known to bring about tearful e:x- our activities there in the name they decided to take. Perhaps it · t• · th t · d f d 1 kin d is not this simple, but where aspira 10n m e mos VIgorous an orwar - oo g a - of \freedom \fl'ee world,\ or are all the facts ? Facts seem ministrators. It is easy to see that when mere students what have you. We are in Viet to get manufactured overnight by · · f h 1 th Nam to maintain the Asian bal- both sides. Verified :facts help in · try to Impinge upon the terntory 0 sue peop e ey are ance of power and to maintain evaluating a situation, emotional his Lqn.!ltic raving about Christ· · Anyone with questions con- mas stated that Robert Burns, cerning their exam schedule tl1e filnDus. Scottish poet. wa~ should inquire at the Adminis- boxn om .January 16th. This ir- tration Building. Campus Calendar in for a fight, and the Student Council and IFC at Union our influence in Indochina, and speculations only cloud the issue. would be well advised to start training for their imminent these are legitimate objectives. 1 suggest this means we are b t 'th th f It For this reason only, we should neither totally right nor totally. :FEm~r, JANUARY 7: OU WI e acu Y· not be forced out of Viet NaNm wrong (hmmml). What is at Filln Series, E.E. 22, 7:00 and 9:00 P.M. \Day o,f Wrath\ until a reasonable settlement will stake is political control of South- :Basketball: at Alfred; Broadcast over W.R.U.C. at At their meetings this week the two groups decided have been reached. But present- east Asia, not a moral cause,. 8:15 P.M. d fin ing our commitment in VietNam not democracy. Democracy comes SAT\lfR])AY JANUARY 8: that the faculty should not have the prerogative to e e as a crusade for freedom, as the from the G1·eek word demos and S · · U · N · 1 t U vvunmmg: mon vs. orwiC 1 a · nion, 2:00P.M. what is an academic matter and what is not, under the Administration does, is mislead- means rule by the people. As far Baslcetb!J:ll at Rochester, Broadeast over w.R.U.C. at P roposed community government. This power would lie ing, potentially dangerous, and as I can see, neither the Com- 8:15 P.M. reflects on President Johnson's munists nor the United States TIIURSI>A y, JANUARY 13: instead with the joint All College Council which, strangely unwillingness to educate the are willing to let the people gov- EK:aminations begin t.. uld h J. 'sd' ti'o ver n n academt\c areas A . bl' ern themselves unless it suits ·p.o.fll\\Y· - JANUARY 14 ·. .,,,~ enougu., wo ave Uri IC n o o - , mer1can pu 1c a-bout the com- their own wishes. People are dy- _. ,,... _ B:'i and would be powerless in the sphere of education con- plexities of foreign policy. In lm'ngorainl ovdoiert, bNuatms'o nthotatfoorneaconunew_ '.:;·',:?\':~ SA!I'~eBta])vAoYC,oJnAceNl'tU,AMReYmo2r2i~.l Chapel, 8:00 P.M. ~ trolled by the faculty. The Students apparently fear that .·view of the. atmosphere cr,eated u '\ ·at least partly by the Adminis- try can control another country .. w -:Senester ends. ~ · the faculty will stymie any attempt at effective legisla- tration, then, I am not at all sur- t~ SU~DAY, .JANUARY 30: IOn J.JY ran mg every Impo an ma er as aca e~u.~ • e are s u en s aims? They m·e a sham. And t . '2... b d' · rt t tt \ d ,.....;c \ pr1'sed that ther t d t Where are our great moral ~~~,,.·,,. ~e.g~stration for second semester A few members of the Student Council admitted that tlley who are confused about our real where are the Viet Cong's moral 'ri.H~SDA. Y, FEBRUARY 1: objectives: they cannot under- aims? They too are a sham. As ~; tCo11vocation, Justice W. 0. Douglas, Memorial Chapel, were heing a bit incontinent in asking for this much stu- stand, it seems, how we are fight- has happened so often in the past, · ' 11:80 A.M. dent in.fl.uence over the faoulty, but voted for the change ing for freedom by supporting man covers his covetousness. with fll lla.sketball, Hobart, home, 8:00 P.l\'1. an anti ·quated 'l't d' t t 1noral phrases and godly over- £ FBIDA..Y- FEBRUARY 4·. because it wouldn't hurt to try. mJ 1 ary Ic a or- M.·~ J3 k' tb 11 ship. They wonder why we are tones. 1 a.:s e a , Harpur, home, 8:00 P.M. , ... , . so upset about freedom in Viet ;~ :Swilnming, Vermont, home, 3:15 P.l\'1. '-\' ernm~~~ ~~a:i:~~~ P;~:~e p~i :: ~~:~~~o:t i~h!h~;;;; !~~er:eh;n ~~u~re f~~!d~~ive~~ ~if{n : 1 t~:,.~:~tl¥ 1 h, ~r{e~~~:~~ • ~d?;E;lW!§hri~,m-~u£!@)1i~iWi;)lW~~1~\'lllW~l''l'K~nw- · ~~··'''\''\'\''~':'· ,~,··~r·:·x~:T»::::~:~~::·c::;\~ ;::#E\;;;~~ Spain, Taiwan, or Mississippi. tive, I have to ask myself why of an eleven-member council does hurt, however, because The answer, of course, is that they have not stop,ped. The ques- ·~--------------------------;;;. of the bad faith it demonstrates in the ideals of community our Viet Nam policy cannot be tion we must decide is. whether. i' I · d · h · l'fi d we want wars (and the nolitical • ~overnment. The change was unfounded because the fac- exp ame m sue over-simp 1 e .,. ~ terms as the good guy vs. bad covetousness implied by them) to ulty is rightfully the final judge in matters concerning the guy or freedom vs. tyranny go <m as they have in the past, possible conduct of its business. The students, warning dichotomy, but in terms of the or to stand up against them. ' of faculty power grabs, have executed a power grab of Asian balance of power. If Presi· In living, I feel one must com-! dent Johnson had the political mit oneself to a way of life-to I; their own. They seem to have forgotten that the new . courage to clarify our real mo- a belief. A person by his very government is intended to combine all campus forces and · tives and deal publicly with the ameliorate the antagonisms which have damaged student- sophisticated objectives at hand, . . . . . . some of his opponents might at teach.er relations m the past. This reVISIOn Will ar()use · least understand what we are the fears as well as the ire of the faculty, is doomed to trying to accomplish in Asia. defeat before the Faculty Council and will put a damper Oh, yes, he might lose a few t t... • 't f th' · ' h t II votes in 1968 but I think he has on 1.1.e spiri o IS progressive approac o co ege gov- enough to sp~re. ern.ment. Charles Gati The best way to handle the problem of defining aca- demic areas would be to allow the All College Council to · make original decisions while the Faculty Council retains the ability to review any finding with which it takes issue. Department of Political Science Viet Nam Sham This arrangement would provide the government with· To the Editor: ample flexibility since it would place the burden of initia- Roidn .f~lo~!~:m!Jd t:M/eG;.~~~in~~ tive on the faculty. The faculty, however, would never challenges, I would like to set b d · d f · · di t' ·f •t -\ It t 1 h t forth my own views on VietNam. e epnve 0 JUris ,c Ion 1 1 Le s rong Y enoug 0 I hope this will stimulate fur- take the necessary action. When the Student Affairs Com- ther articles. mittee of the Faculty Council considers this revision it . The most apparent fact I find is that there is a lack of veri- should challenge the student government and offer a fled evidence. The Viet Cong's program like the one suggested here. It will maintain actions exist more in our minds . than in reality. What facts do its integrity m this way, while reaffirming its belief in not coincide with our initial pre- greater student participation in the college's affairs. judice we change. The truth dis- lllppears and only our views re- main-as if there were no facts at all. Despair Union College is faced with its most critical crisis in decades - it can't find Skidmore. Confusion and disbelief are gripping Union men this week as they roam among the desolate dorms which once echoed the exhilarating · sounds of wondous femininity. Incredulous students here are remembering the insidious gleam in the eye of the girl . who said \Call me after Christmas\ and has since been whisked off to points unknown. We are frought with the ego shattering revelation that Skidmore is hopelessly draining away into the wilderness. All we can do, unloved and unwanted, is cry. l. Ga BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY • PROGRAMS CLI,IB PINS • KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or Call Fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N. Y. 13210 lit eO unafraid Peopfe don't often realize when they're afraid, because fear has so many disguises. There's only one way to live without fear. And that's to conquer it- day by day - with the growing spiritual strength made possible by divine Love. Hear this public lecture, \'Life Unafraid,\ by WILLIAM HENRY ALTON, member of the Board of Lectureship of The First Church of Ghrist, Scientist, in Boston, Massachusetts. c~rlslian Science lecture 8:15 P.M. F'RIDAY, JANUARY 21 IN MEMORIAL CHAPEL. UNION COLLEGE SPONSORED BY FIRST CHURCH OF' CHRIST, SCIEI'ITIST, SCHENECTADY Admission Free o Everyone is welcome ;F'or three .(;e.,erafions • Those Uhe l<now • . . Hcnre been ecetnamending - HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER ~auiue B. Granbart & Sons '•3 Ut~ion Graduates in Graubart Family'' 166JAYST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian - American Food l 11.5 BARRETTT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-97 44 En[oy- Sizzling Ste<lks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar IILDRETH TRAVEL CENTER 1 632 UNION STREET Schenectady, N. Y. 12309 346-4238 TR~VEL -CUSTOM DEIGNED WITH YOU IN MIND AIR • SEA • RAIL e CHARTER BUS • Conti or not any. 'I ment ~I would I ment n version Council It w should plan aE felt nei be mad The, on the gency 1 of sev emerge a simp: The vo pro vaL The: no deb ],)y the I.F.C.: said, i Cur Cont a few absorb Cha I nco• will t Compr gram. two g( nine ( year. did ate ed by first y can be with li Iii ( The for im from ( Scienc· ence a from t Center titled entific has no Social course of \fr will b( lected few w of topi The p finals paperE stud en p (' • In ~ fall's ( plete now b ulty. , to arr by con take tl out sc· am scl since E 3 cour Ace< one of :·, the m provid study possib: .. more' ing to at Uni abroad still cc • schedu The in a s be mO' as a 1 ,r more i tern, s spend each , i ' trast tion o: ingo as all co- human equiva , J • - Cc c, ( o, Su

a~y 7, 1966 in his anything missed hy ·bol'n on the pygmy- merits to that pl'o- a mockery Company of context. has a:l- of the continue Stephen Stewart. pe1·tinent birthday. written society in a mess Stewart's libelous that siclt band con- schedule e Adminis- at tail Bar Friday, Jcm~:~ary .z, 1966 5 •• Contrnunity Govt. • • Continued from Page 1, Col. 5 1 from the floor, \The All-College or not granting it a veto over · Council is not interested ln as- any. The1•e was general agree- suming any of the powers of the ment that the latter solution S.C. or I.F.C. where they function would make community govern- best.\ He repeated .that the prime G.E. Grants Research Funds For Clutch Fatique Machine I Skids. • • Continued from Page 1, Col. 2 frigid conditions in two of the four dormitories. ·t r •• t th , th f 1 f th ·1 t b By .1\lich:ael Klimpl . men no · mg more an a orma purpose o e counc1 wa·s o e , ll h . d flty of work performed bv the version <Yf the present All-College for communicatioRs between stu- Umon Co· ege as recetve a machine, called .Slipping Clutch Council. de11ts, faculty, and administr-ation. grant of $4000 from the General M h' It was also felt that the S.C. He also stated that \it would Electric Company to conduct re- Fatique ac me. should tl·y to propose as strong a not be impossible\ for a student search on a machine which could The machine tests the react·ion plan as possible. Then, if it were· to bring a complaint directly to be useful to the Company. Ray- of materials subjected to elevated felt necessary, compromises could the All-College Council, although mond Eisenstadt, Professor of temperature and in fa.tique. Fati- be made. the usual procedure would' be for Mechanical Engineering, and Wil- que is the oscillation of a given The S;G, voted to make the vote the objection to come from either liam Schwartz, laboratory tech- load on the tested material, often on the changed draft an emer- .;t=:h=e~S=·=C=·~o=r~th~e=I=.F=·=:C:=·======n=i~ct~·a~n~,~a;!:r~e=i=n~v~es~t~i§g;:at=i=n~g~t;;h:;;e~q~u:;;a=l- resulting in an alternating ten- g·ency motion, over the objections - sion and compress·ion on the ma- of several representatives. An G:radu.ate Studt.es Pr, ·ogra.m terial. The oscHlation of the ma- emergency motion requires only ~ chine is set at 3000 cycles per a simple majority to be ap·proved. minute. A maximum load of 4000 The vote was unanimous for ap- pounds can he supplied by .the proval. I.F.c. Approves Considered for Expansion machine to the material. The I.F,C.anproved, with almost The Fulmer Research Institute no debate, all the changes made· of England sold the machine to }Jy the Student Council. At the . By Lance Polya student need only have a high Union for $3,500. It was delivered I.F.C. meeting Tuesday, Ed Clark s~hool diploma. A graduate can- to the College last May. The rna- said, in answer to an objection The evening Graduate Studies d!rlate must have a college di- chine was developed by National Program offered at Union Col- ploma, but Graduate Record Ex- Physical Laboratories. It is the 1 b . t d . t h amintons are waived. Require- only one of 1 ·ts kt'nd. eg:e may e mcorpora e m o t e t f M regula·r day schedule wi.th Mas- men s or a aster's degree Heat Effect tel''s degrees awarded to full- however, are quite stringent, and General Electric is specifically · time students. only 34 diplomas were awarded interested in the accuracy with Continued from Page 1. Col. 4 The new program, according to at last year's commencement. which the machine can determine a few present sophomores will be WilJ.iam Weifenbach, Assistant However, Dean Weifenhach ex-· th.: effects of elevated tempera- absorbed into the program. · Dean for Special Programs, would pects the number to climb to 45 ture over a long period, on a Ch · M · s· l'fi d · this June. g1'ven mater1'al. These tests a.re ange m a)or Imp 1 e permit a student to receive a Curriculum Incoming freshmen, of course, Master of Arts or Master of will be indoctrinated into the Science degree at Union in one Comprehensive Education pro- year, foHowing his graduation. gram. Freshmen will have only This is considerably faster than ' \ two general t•equirements out of the present method, which re- nine courses during their .first quires two years of full-time year. A prospective major can- study, or a minimum of three didate may take courses suggest- years on a part-time basis. ed by a department during his All of the departments that first year, but a change ·of major aw .. ard Master degrees, including can be effected in the 'second year American Studies, Chemistry, with little difficulty. Electrical Engineering, Industrial Past The two new courses required Administration, Mathematics, Me- for incoming freshmen are taken chanica! Engineering, and Phys- from each of the Centers: Social ics, have urged approval of the Sciences and Humanities, and Sci- new plan, and its extens!on into ence and Engineering. The course other major fields. ~ ' from the Science and Engineering Center 'has been tentatively en- titled The Development of Sci- entific Concepts. But its content has not been wholly decided. The Social Science and Humanities' course will have a general theme of \freedom and authority,\ and will be made up of a core o1' se- lected books used during the first few week's followed by discussion of topics chosen by the instructor. The present intention is to av·oid finals for these courses and use papers and quizzes to evaluate student progress. Plans Are Complete Courses Expand 1 The evening division has a to-j tal enrollment of about 1100 stu- dents, most of whom are between : 30 and 40 years old. Forty per- . cent are in the graduate program, 1 while the remaining are doing un- i dergraduate work. I Pres en In general, the plans for next ~ ·• fall's curriculum change are com- plete except for smaller details now being considered by the fac- ulty. An attempt is being made P , to arrange next year's progr~s In recent years, the scope and number of courses given at night has expanded enormously: This spring term, 46 undergraduate courses will be offered in 17 fields. On the graduate level, there will be 31 courses in 10 dif- ferent areas of study. Easier Entry Admission to the evenmg di- vision is less difficult than to the day school. An undergraduate by computer so that students WJll take the courses they choose with- out schedule problems. Final ex- am schedules will be less crowd.ed, since each student will carry only 3 courses. According to Dean Lockwood, one of the outstanding points of :·, the new system is its ability to provide more flexible programs of studv to the student, 'such as the possibility of changing ma~ors more easily. Also, students wish- • • ing to study in Europe may stay at Union for the fall term and go abroad for the next two terms, still coinciding with the European schedule. The amount of material covered in a single subject per term will be more than at the present and, as a result, work will be much 1 ,t more intense. Under the new sys- tem students will be expected to spe~d about 15-18 hours of study each week on a course, m con-~ II ' trast to the present apJ?l'(}Xima- tion of 9-12 hours. One mtere'st- ingo aspect of the progr~ is that i all courses, whether sciences or 1 humanities, a1·e regarded as. equivalent in credit substance. I , J FERRO PHARMACY 575 N·oH Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 • FOUNTAIN SERVICE DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dining Room Opp. The Brownell Gate on Nott St. DON McCANN (M.E.) of the '60 Bethlehem \'Loop\ Course is a key man in the engineering department in our giant plant near Buffalo, N.Y. He's typical of young men on the move at Bethlehem Steel. Seniors and graduate students in engineering and non-technical curricula will soon be interviewed for the 1966 Bethlehem Loop Course. We offer splendid career opportunities in steel plant operations, research, sales, mining, accounting, and other activities. For detailed information, pick up a copy of our booklet, \Careers with Bethlehem Steel and the Loop Course,\ at your Placement Office. An Equal Opportunity Employer in the Plans for Progress Program BETHLEHEM I I and Take a look at the above chart; then a good long look at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft-where technical careers offer exciting growth, continuing challenge, and lasting stability-where engineers and scientists are recog· ni.zed as the major reason for the Company's con· tinued success. Engineers and scientists at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft are today exploring the ever-broadening avenues of energy conversion for every environment ... all opening up new avenues of exploration in every field of aero· space, marine and industrial power application. The technical staff working on these programs, backed by Management's determination to provide the best and most advanced facilities and scientific apparatus, has already given the Company a firm foothold in the cur· rent land, sea, air and space programs so vital to our country's future. The list of achievements amassed by our technical staff is ·a veritable list of firsts in the development of compact power plants, dating back to the first Wasp engine which lifted the United States to a position of world leadership in aviation. These engineering and scientific achievements have enabled the Company to obtain its current position of leader- essential for General Eletcric's maintenance and development of their large steam turbines. If the results of these tests cor- respond to similar tests made by G. E. with their own machines,. the Company wi:Jl purchase the F'atique Machine for approxi- mately $5000. The advantage of the machine to G.E. is that its cost is one-sixth .the cost of their machines, doing the same work. The experiments now being made by Professo1· Eisenstadt thus are to deter\mine whether the machine ca.n match the per- formance of machines costing six times as much. If H can G.E. will save greatly-, as they em ploy many such machines. Professor Eisenstadt started work in October and hopes to be finished by February. He believes the machine will be successful after certain modifications. The idea for a new campus has been In the planning ·stage for several years. The new residence quadrangle was to be completed by the end of this past summer and occupancy by Skidmore's sophomores, juniors, and seniors was to take place in September. However, a construction strike during the summer delayed the opening of the dorm·s. The next quadrangle for the new Skidmore campus is now be- ing planned and the tentative completion date has been set for September, 1968. Rushing Ca.rds In ·order for any freshman to pledge any fraternity, he must have a rushing card with the I.F.C. stamps of ten different fraternities. Rushing cards may be purchased in the Student Ac· tivities Office, Old Gym Hall, for five dollars. The Company's first engine, the Wasp, took to the air on May 5, 1926. Within a year the Wasp set its first world record and went on to smash existing records and set standards for both land an~ seaplanes for years to come, carrying airframes and pilots higher, farther, and faster than they had ever gone before. In recent years, planes powered by Pratt & Whitney Aircraft have gone on to set new standards of performance in much the same way as the Wasp had done in the 1920's. The 727 and DC-9 are indicative of the new family of short-to-medium range jetliners which are powered by the highly successful JTSD turbofan. Examples of current military utilizations are the J58· powered Mach 3 YF-12A which recently established four world aviation records and the advanced TF30-powered F-111 variable· geometry fighter aircraft. ship in fields such as gas turbines, liquid hydrogen technology and fuel cells. Should you join us, you'll be assigned early responsi- bility. You'll find the spread of Pratt & Whitney Aircraft's programs requires virtually every technical talent. You'll find opportunities for professional growth further en- hanced by our Corporation·financed Graduate Educa- tion Program. Your degree can be a BS, MS or PhD in: MECHANICAL • AERONAUTICAL • ELECTRICAL • CHEMICAL ENGINEERING • PHYSICS • CHEMISTRY • METALLURGY • CERAMICS o NIATHEMATICS • ENGINEERING SCIENCE OR APPLIED MECHA.NICS. For further information concerning a career with Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, consult your college placement officer-or write Mr. William L. Stoner, Engineering Department, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford, Connecticut05108. SPECIALISTS liN POWER ••• POWER FOR PROPULSION-POWER FOR AUXILIARY SYSTEMS. CURRENT UTILIZATIONS INCLUDE AIRCRAFT, MISSILES, SPACE VEHICLES, MARINE AND INDUS- TRIAL APPLICI\ liONS. Open Daily 1 0 to 1 A.M. Sundays 5 P.M. • 1 A.M. STEEL Pratt & Whitney f=lircraft u DIVISION OF UNITED t:iRAFT CORP, CONNECTICUT OPERATIONS EAST HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT. FLORIDA OPERATIONS WEST PALM BEACH, FLORIDA An Equal Opportunity Employ•r , I i I, l I i :' l,, 1' I ! i I r

.. PRESIDENTIAL REPORT Page 2 Con~ordy Sports THOR Page 3 • DePauw Wins Holiday Tourney; Union Whips MIT For Lone Win GARNET CAGERS CONDEMN COACII EVANS' CRITICS Rochester, Alfred To Host Ga.rnet Cagers Fraternity By Bob Rice I I A hopefully rejuvenated Union basketball team hits the road, ntramura this weekend, playing at Alfred University tonight and the Univer- sity of Rochester tomorrow night. Both games will be carried live over WRUC, at 8:10 tonight and 7:55 Saturday. Standi·nrls In last week's Holiday Tournament at the Field House, the . · · ~ Garnet tied with Hope College and MIT, winning one and losing one. Union is now 2-8 for the season. DePauw Univers-ity of Greenca'stle, Indiana, won the round-robin by defeating each of the other three Leams on successive nights. Hope beat Union, MIT beat Hope, and Union beat MIT in the other games. What's Fair To the Editor: In the last issue of Coucordy, there was a letter written by tJwo students, suggesting that maybe it was \time forf a change\ of basketball coaches at Union. While I appreciate their concern (criticism is better than disinterest.) I think that they, I hnd the student body as a who!e, should be aware of some im- portant facts. It is not a coach's plac:e to make excuses, and Mr. After losing to Hope, 87-75, on the Tourney's opening night, Union was badly outclassed by DePau\· in the sec:ond round. The Tigers placed 12 men in the ·sroring column, as they buried the (Football, Badminton, . Evans has never done so, but SwJm, there are certain factors which I have contributed to the slow start, and these should be known. Dutchmen, 9fi-55. DePauw is easily the best club Union has faced Volleyball). in years. They displayed the fast-break, sharp-shooting brand of basketbal.l which typifies mid-western teams. In addition, their de- if~:=~.s~a::~~r~~i:in~~\ bundle of perpetual energy named Jack Sig Chi .......................... 327 _ 293 Garnet's Best Game D Chi . . ............. 324.025 Heading into the final night's game with MIT, Union faced the bleak prospect of going winless in its own Tournament. However, Chi Psi ................................ 318.071 El Evans' crew played by far its best game of the season and avenged an earlier 77-64 loss to the Engineers with an inspirational 1 K A ...................................... 309.995 88-74 upset. The Garnet shot a sea·sonal high of 52% from the field . (28-54) and converted an amazing 32 of 40 from the foul stripe. Phl Ep ········ · ··· · ·· .......... 270.931 Steady soph Bill Neidel led the victory with 22 points and 11 re- D Phi ................. 265 236 bounds, and co-captain G1·eg Olson added 17 points. ····· · Turnet·, Hrdlicka Star Betas .................................... 246.046 But, the long-missing spark came from two unexpected sources. Fitz Turner and AI Hrdlicka, each starting only his second game of D. U ..................................... 244.116 the year, contributed 19 and l!l points, respectively, and played out- standing over-all games. Both figure to start in this weekend's Phi Delt .............................. 229.379 contests. Turner, a 6'5\ soph who has progressed quickly this season, did a great job off both boards, as well as 'sinking 7 of 10 attempts from Theta Delt .......................... 189.996 the floor, including several key jump shots from the corner. Hrdlicka, a junior, was a starter two years ago, but sat out all last season with Sig Phi ................................ 187.139 a leg injury. Against MIT, he directed the offense very well, keeping the ball moving to c:ombat the Engineer's zone defense, which had Phi Sig Delt ....................... 166.304 ruined Union in the team·s' first meeting, two weeks earlier. This p 111 · Gatn time, the Garnet penetrated it consistantly. 1 ··· ••••• •• ••••••••• 164.283 Xe\·e1· Trailed 1 Psi U .............................. 161.377 Ur:ion. never tr~iled in this one, s~reakin~ to. an early 11-? lead, ! ····· extendmg 1t to 44-3~ at the half, and mcrea:smg 1t to 61-40 m1d-way 1 Inds ...................................... 154.Q83 through the second half. The Dutchmen employed a hustling zone Alpha Delt ........................ 211.427 Before the seson began, Ron Giancola, last year's top .scorer and rebounder, suffered a back injury which caused him to miss nearly a month of practice and the first three games. He is still hampered by the injury, and is just now approaching his peak. Obviously, the loss and subse- quent part-time service of a key player restricts a team's develop- ment. In addition, other aflic- tJons have plagued the Garnet: Greg Olson was unable to shoot well for several games due to chemical burns on his fingers which impa,_ired his sense of touch; Bill Boehm played several contests with a severe cold; and now, Tom Urbelis is out indefi- nitely with a back injury. I don't intend this to be a plea for sym- pathy, but certainly such set- backs must be taken into account. The team has been far from full- strength. The quality of competition has ueen expectionally high. Hamil- ton and RPI both have their strong·~st teams in years; Trinity We do not believe that a man was undefeated and ave1•aging should be ·da1nned. •before· all the close to 100 points per game facts are know:, Have the critics when we played them; MIT has of the \unimag.inative\ coaching u team which. their press brochure bothered to assess the hardships cal-ls \one of the Institute's best,\ which coaches at Union labor and which lost tG Trinity by only under. A coach must pass from 5 points; Williams has its usual one season on the S'POt to an- :power:ful team; and DePauw other with SQarcely enough time is the .best team I have for a cup of coffee let alone much seen Union play in my four years advance plannillg or personal life. , here. We have not been losinro to Both recruiting and scouting are patsies. We have been defeated at best, makeshift operations b:y some truly outstanding teams. with little or no assistance out- '(Hope has all 5 starters return- side of the coaching staff. Rave ing from last year's team which ·the critics of the 1965-66 basket- , was 16-1 and dwon its Conference ball team bothered to look any Championship in a tough Michi- ·farther tbah the first scores ·Of gan league); the toughest part of the game 1 Have they troubled the schedule is behind, and the themselves to compare both ath- t Dutchmen should do much better 'etically and pb.ysica!ly the other in the second half of the season. [o;Chools or .th~ schedules with The 2-8 record is disappomting. Union? Finally, have they of- However, when all things are fered Union anything other than t considered, I don't think it ·is fair the old cry of \damn the coach.\ to place the blame on the coach, We think not! in this instance. Robert Rice, Jr. '66 A Coach's Lot To the Editor: In the last issue of the Con- cordiensis there was printed a letter from two :freshman boys who attempted to place the blame for this season's thus far un- happy basketball record on fac- ulty coaching. Mr. Evans, is and has been, the .first to accept the responsibility for the \failure\ of the team to achieve a mark better than the current two wins and eight lo.sses; but it should be pointed out that the acceptance of the blame for defeat and the giving of praise for victory is part of a coach's job. Gregory 'R. Olson Robert R. Seefrled William A. Boehm Albert F. Hrdlicka David· T. Kasper Tad Knight Fitzhugh L. Turner Ill t Sill Neidel Jam<>s Malcolm Williams II William Priscott James W. Derrick Ron Giancola Tom Urbelis Dan Gestwick Dave Werkhoven David A. Waters, mgr. Woody Hobbs, mgr. defense to successfully bottle up the potent MIT attack, although I Phi Sig Kap ....................... 147 .141 big Alex Wilson scored his usual 25 points. Wilson, the Toumament's top scorer with a three game total of~---------------------------------------------------------- 70 points, and DePauw's Hogan were the ·only unanimous choices to· the 8-man All-Tournament team named by the coaches and sports- writers. Also honored were Union's Greg Olson; Floyd Brady, Doni Kronemeyer, and Clare Van Wieren of Hope; Dave Jansson of MIT: I Vol. 9! VIET1' Union and Morgan Everson of DePauw. Urbelis Out Indefinitely f •• C< Di Union lost the services of Tom Urbelis for an indeterminate. period, as he injured his back against Hope. On the other side of the! ledger, Jim Williams has recovered from a football injury and is I available for action tonight. 1 The Union freshmen remained undefeated by handing the RPI 1 frosh their first lo~s of the season, 63-57, just before vacation. The I young Dutchmen will be looking for wins eight and nine in a row, this weekend, ag they play the freshmen at Alfred and Rochester. 1 Basketball Statistics Io'teld Goals n. Made lh\tlg Ol:sun IO ;) ~ Bill 1\'f<'ilh•l Ill :.t 'T'nm l'rhf\li!\' ., 46 Bill lloehm !I ~0 I ton GianC'o]n 7 ~1 l•'it7. TurnPr ~ I 111 'f'!Ld 'I< night !I 16 Bill Pris{'ott 10 14 .\I Hrdii<'l<a !> 11 flavP lCa~pt.•t· 11) X .Tim ])prrkk ll llan UPSt\\·kl\: 7 t Boh Sl~rfriPcl 7 1 f>n. VP 1Vt:'Jl'kho\\Pn ~. 0 t'nion Total}; Ill ~· ,) Opp. ·rotnl~ Ill ....,- ·-' ltf't'nrd: !!·:>t :\'orwirh-79, l\nion-64 Willlams-70. l'ninn-4 ~ Hamillnn-S:!. l~ninn-S-1 i'nion-71. ~·Jiddlf\hury-fi~ >1. I. T. -70. Fnion-G4 All. 116 11 2 1~7 63 4S 10 :!S 40 ~3 3 .• 1 ~I l)fjS ~~' EASTERN AVENUE PIZZERIA 860 Eastern Ave. WE DELIVER PIZZA PHONE 393-0870 l'ct. H., 4 .• •.. ·, ::6. ~ 4 i'. 6 43. s 40.0 57.1 35.0 ~3.0 25.0 ~6. :1 ~0.11 :.!:;,n 41.~ 14 !I Jo'oul Shots i\lade Alt. Pet. Reb. 3S 61 6~. 3 52 2S :~:-: 8~. s \ - 2~ 8. 7 ;);') 1 ~I 34 55.9 Sl 1~ :!7 7n. 4 54 11 -- 63.6 38 7 !I 77. :i 1~ 10 ~I 4 7. 6 8 10 1:l 76.9 11 6 !iO.O 11 so. 0 11 75.0 6 riO.O 0 .. ~0.0 159 262 60.7 493 166 275 60.4 !il:l Trinity--! 04. trnion-89 It..P.I.-78 (OTl. trnion-73 Hope-87. Union-i5 I>PPauw-95, lrnion-5:i t:nion-88, M.I.'T'.-74 Pts. 142 130 94 79 61 46 39 38 32 19 14 11 3 1 709 R:!O Tin1e Cente.- Jewelers YOUR JEWELER AWAY FROM HOME REDWOOD DRIVE IN 2688 HAMBURG STREET - 5 Min from College HOTDOGS with Famous Sauce CHARCOAL HAMBURGERS and CHEESEBURGERS 1 0 Ox. Charcoal Broiled Steak Dinner-1 .35 - OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK - 11:00 A.M. - 12:30 P.M. Sun. - Thurs. Till 2:00 A.M. Tues I Ave. 14.2 13.0 10.4 8. 8 8. 7 5.1 4.3 3.8 3.5 1.9 2. 3 l.fl 0.4 0.5 70.9 8~.0 We're sending some of our representatives back to school They won't be matriculating but they'll be studying ways to have some lengthy talks with you. Their assignment is to search out graduates who have the talent and imagination to handle sophisticated assignments and the determination to do a job better than most. The vitality of McDonnell is ap- parent by the headline-making strides it has taken in spacecraft, air- craft, electronics and automation. The NASA Gemini has set new re- cords in space, laying the ground- wor.k for exploration of the moon and it is being readied for new assign- ments with the Air Force. If these projects strike sparks with your imagination you're in good company ... the top scientific and en- gineering talents in the nation. For more information see your College Placement Office or send coupon. MCDONNELL A PLANS FOR PROGRESS COMPANY AND AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER r------------------------·-·t MCDONNELL, P.O. Box 516, I St. Louis, Missouri 63166 : Att: W. R. Wardle, Professional Employment Office, Dept. CP Name ______________________ _ City & State'------------ I Scnoot _____________ : I I Degree ____ Major _____ : ·---------------------------J t ' Offi< p!oyee: l ly var: the st! its pr( . .. Ako the V at the said c weeks target tempo: cause and tl: I .. He. make· The1 Mana~ that t tion d: it will Noven pie ted ture a ibly 1: sessim occupi tion.\ Mr. strike fected said t buildil would house may t factur finish1 Not constr delay! Alh of thE tion, · Scien( that sched labor said tempe would pleti-o \Tl:

