sec- event 0 sched- one of shortly their Prevost, 184 and are with The re- m prob- Larry both tak- to Bowl- keglers tourna- Under :New . Management . Repent!! Page 4 Founded at Union College 1877 ·Educational Philosophy Questioned .Foster, Sinton ;Dismissed By ll.UCI:iiARD BALAGUR and NEAL GORDON Severe criticism of Professor Sven Peterson, Chairman of the Philosophy Department, iti a letter to the editor in last week's Concordiensis, has stirred campus concern and interest in the dismissal of Michael J. Foster, Instructor in Philosophy and in the ~~emingly related dismissal of John Sinton, lnstructor in History. P:vofessor Peterson stated the per- son (whp wrote the letter) doesn't know ali the facts and \I choose to ignore the critics at this time.\ Dismissals Common Many peoPle, including the instruc- tors involved, felt that this was part ()£ a larger issue of the school's ed- ttcationat philosophies and values. Both stressed that dismissals of this type are common in academic circles. The ··vicious cJrcle\ that Michael J. Foster, instructor of philosophy speaks of is engulftng the Union College campus. The administration 'llas decided to maintain a two man staff for the Philosophy Department. At present three men, Mr. Foster, Professor Toland and Mr. Meyers are teaching courses. Meyers had to be C!alled in from Albany State. To limit a department's size not only limits the cout·se offerings but also to min- illlizes the interest of students in Foster's view on the subject. To expand the department, to offer more courses, in short, to revitalize is what is called for. To say that the department is unimportant, to write it off as poor, is unfair to the edu- C!ational atmosphere Union should· strive for. \Ph.D. or perish\. Mr. Charles Plesums, Director of Computer Pmgrams and Union students in:;pect the $400,000 computer that General Electric: is donating to the school. VITA Volunteers Offer) Various Technical Aids· By RICHARD PATTERSON, JR. In Taiwan recently, Americans were building a new school. Local concrete dealers did not stock in a very high grade of\ concrete and the builders needed to be sure that the concrete they used to lay the foundation was of a consistent qual- ity. They sent an appeal to VITA ask- ing for some way to test the con- sistency of concrete. VITA supplied them with plans for making the neces- sa:vy testing device. Solar Cooker lVIany people overseas no longer have to ·eat meals cooked over an open fire, because scientists at Gen- eral Electric designed a solar cooker which uses the sun's heat for cook- ing. It can boil water in 12 minutes and cook bacon in 3 minutes. It is a simple, but sanitary device which can be made in an overseas village for less than $3. Recently, VITA produced a \Vil- lage Technology Han.tbook\ which shows different ways of digging wells building cisterns, disposing of sewage: and other basic tasks. Many Ameri- cans engaged around :the world in community building projects have found themselves una:ble to find a library or a technical journal with which to supplement their limited knowledge. To them, VITA makes available the technical .expertise and knowledge of many of America's most highly skilled people. Self Help The emphasis of the aid program is on helping people to help them- selves using the materials locally available. Many times this presents a challenge to the volunteer. He must design a device which will serve the purpose, often using only the most primitive materials. This approach is felt to be of more lasting benefit than direct charity. A new and expen- sive water pump will not be of much value in Afghanistan if it cannot be Continued on Page 2 PRICE l 5 CENTS GE Grants College: NewComputerSystem A new General Electric 415 com- ruter is preseney being installed by the College Computer Center on the ground floor of the Electrical En- gineering Building. The facu 'ty is valued at approxi- mately $400.000. The donation is in connection with Union's fund-raising drive. The contribution represents the mC'st costly edu(!ational equipment gift ever made to the College. It is also rne of the largest gifts the Gen- eral 'E'ectric Company has ever made t0 an individual college. 50 Times Better Mr. Charles Plesums, Director of Computer Services, noted that the half-million dollar installation will have an average capacity fifty times that of the present facilities and much greater speed. The 415 is classed as a computer of medium capability. However, Mr. Plesums pointed out that the 415 is \full sca!e\ in that it can perform all the operations of the largest ma- chines, lacking only the greater ca- pacity. Plesums Compares Plesums cited a number of specific examples of the increased speed. For instance, a program that formerly took 10 hours and six minutes can be done in 15 minutes on the 415. Union's old equipment was capable of printing a maximum of 100 lines per minute, while the 415 system is ca- pable of 1,200 lines. An addressing job for mailings that used to take seven to eight hours may now take as little as half an hour. The new computer system will also represent a consid~-!\able gain for stu- dents and faculty who want to use the facility for research projects. Compvter Time Available Plesums said the \tremendous over- load\ on the old system made it im- practical for people not in computer courses to find time on the machine. With the 415's greatly increased ca- pacity computer time will be readily available for student and faculty re- search and projects. Computers, explained Plesums, are general:y divided into two types- business or commercial and scientific. The bttsiness machines have fast in- put and o11tput, but limited comput- ing ability, while the scientific de- vices have large calculating ability and comparatively slow input and out- r:ut. With its refinements, Union's 415 is really hoth a business and scientific computer all wrapped in the same package. Said Plesums, \The 415 con- figuration we have is excellent in both areas. It has fast input and output and a large; rapid computing capabil- ity. This will allow us to better serv- ice both administrative and student- faculty needs.\ \It was selected for its outstand· ing perfor-mance and value before we had any idea General E1ectric would make thi.~ rontribution.\ G E Lauds Union Donald E. Craig, General Electric vice-president and general manager of the Power Generation Division, said of the gift \This contribution is anoth.er evidence of the esteem in which we hold this institution for the service it has provided and will con- tinue to provide under its current leadership~\ \A:t the present time,\ Craig con- tinued, \the Company employs over fOO Union College graduates and there are ht.1.ndreds of other GE peo- p!e who have benefited from the ex- cellent courses offered by Union's evening division.\ Contribution \We are very happy to be able to contribute to the future of Union un- der the long-range program under- taken by Dr. Martin.\ Pres. Martin said the computer sys- tem \will be a tremendous asset to our computer center which is pres- ent'y ta:xed with a work load three times as great as last year's.\ In addition to the 415 computer, or Continued on Page 2 Foster expressed no surprise with llis dismissal as he stated that it is a common occurrence at universities throughout the country. \Ph.D. or .perish\ is an established fact, rc~ard­ less of its academic worth. He felt that although a Ph.D. brings with it the confidence ancl knowledge ()f its stature, a good professor needs experience teaching as well. To do lloth at the same time is st~enuous. Foster has twelve course hmrs at present. He is dissatisfied with the size of some of the classes, noting particulari1y that a course with forty- five students is too large for effectiYe t()aching. These are just two examples of the direct person to person aid that Volunteers for Technical Assistance (VITA) of Schenectady, N.Y. con- ducts from its new offices in the former language building on the Unk'1 College campus. VITA is a private, non-profit organ- Ization of over 1400 volunteers, whose membership includes scientists, en- gtnecr~. businessmen, technicians, and educators from 300 corporations and 70 universities in 48 states and Visi:ting Arti.s~s Screen \Happening\ Sinton, one of the instructors whose · contracts are not being renewed, felt there was a basic conflict of interests Continued on Pag~ 3 17 ccu:1tries. · Assistance in 3 Ways Th~ assistance offered by VITA is in th;ee areas: answering individual inquiries from overseas, working on specific projects, and publishing tecb- nical handbooks. A large part of the ;~,Hvidual appeals come from Peace Corps volunteers. Hewitt. Quits Union Post; Will Chair New Dept .. Professor Philip C. Hewitt, chair- man of the Department of Geology and past president of the National Association of Geology Teachers, has announced his resignation, effective A11gust of thi~ year, to establish a geology department at the State Uni- versity of New York at Brockport. He is going to establish what he believes will bfii a v~ry strong geology department. \My major r~gret is that I will miss the_ students, because, although they may not have looked like the best st11dents we had when they came, they sUre did wben they left.\ He cited students who have gone on to '!) 4! reeeive Ph.D.s from such well known · institutions as Harvard,, Yale, Cornell, Penn State and Kansas State. «\Vherever they have done they have ~ demonstrated what we have done.\ Resignation Essential Pr-ofessor Hewitt expressed his ap- preciation to Union for making it 111 possible for bim to go from a grad- uate student to a professor with a national reputation. He also noted his disappointment \that . I couldn't do the kind of things I thougst I ought .. to be able to do. In view of the de- cision of the trustee to maintain the status quo in the Geology Department Profesor Philip C. Hewitt, Geology Department Chairman. I find this (resignation) absolutely essential.\ ''I would be disappointed if they hired a geophysisist or geochemist or did not continue a strong program in paleontology or stratiography because we have excellent collections and be· cause these are classical grounds in Continued on Page 2 Special Frorn the Schenectady Union-Star ··We're trying to expand the range of perception . . . to indicate that communication can take place in media other than words.\ Speaking in a .panel of seven ar- tists in Memorial Chapel Thursday, poet Robert Greeley moderated a \happening - an unstructured in- vestigation by \Contemporary Voices in the Arts.\ The program open~d with an over- whelming duo of rr.od~rn films. The first was a series of white lines, simi- lar in form to TV static, marching about the screen in step with a strongly rhythmic African melody. Its stark outlines of white on black sub- perbly fused the audial and visual senses, giving a sense of necessity to every conjunction <>f motion and sound. Four Projectors Different was the .second film, for where the first was extravagantly simple, this was super-c()mplex. Using at least four proj eCt()r\S simultane- ously, the tlictures wandered from the screens which surroun~ed the stage onto the walls and .ceiling. Giving the impression of a tot~l lack of purpose (in the sense that it was random movement), the program imitated life by over1vhelming the senses with far more stimuli than could possibly be absorbed. The viewer found himself drawn back and forth between the different films and the accompanying sound~track. No \Plot' But even had the audience concen· trated on just one flltn, it would have been impossible to try to gain a clear· cut perception of a \plot\ in any ord· inary sense of the word. These films pushed far beyond the limits of nor· mal consciousness and forced even dared, the viewer to try to keep up; Frequently, this .:hallenge was made even more d'ifi'icult by the rapid and jerky motion .of the pictures acr<>ss the screens and walls. The sense .of distortion and the sense that Feature artists at last week's Convocation strive to articulate their concepts of communic:aion wihout words. things went beyond the normal was further heightened by the distortion that the moldings in the ceiling and the angles between the walls made when the pictures were projected on them. Mter these movies there was an unstructured and rambling discussion among the artists and members of the 1500 peo);lle in the audience. Communication Without Words lVIerce Cunningham, a well-known modern dancer and choreographer, spoke for many when he spoke of the need to do rather than think about doing. \You can't try to hold on to danc- ing,\ 'he said. \You do it.\ Similarly, the other artists tried to show how t\leir fields could communicate to the vj.ewer without using words. \ · John Cage, one of the foremost avant-garde composers in the world; said, \It would be useful to get into t\fte :English language the .diminition of syntax,\ in the sense that syntax i~ a formal structure of language which is generally conceived as a method <>f explicitness and exact· ness. Cage has been experimenting with music based on random happenings rather the strictly planned .sequence of notes that characterize many other schools. State Sponsored The program was sponsored by the New York State Council on the Arts. ~he artist in the show were, . in addi- tiOn to Cage, Greeley and Cunning- ham, Withe lm Kluver, an electronic engineer; Leonard Lye, a sculptor; Jack Tworkov, a painter; and Stanley VanDerBeek, a film maker. The show will be .repeated Febru- ary 13 ancl 14 at RPI and Albany State. Cage summed up much of the feel- ing of the evening when he said \Somehow something has to be done to liven people to experiences around them. Can you point to anything in the world which doesn't communicate anything?\

2 VITA • • • Continued from Page 1 repaired in Afganistan. A simple pump designed by VITA, but manu- factured l0cally, is often much more practicaL VITA receives over 100 in- quiries each month. Not a Give-away for some way to apply the great tech- nology of the advanced nations to the problems of the underdeveloped countries. Dr. Theodore D. Lockwood, chair- man of the Board of Directors of VITA, pointed out that their organiza- tion is often criticized for giving away a lot of free U.S. technical know!edge. In reply he said, \we work at the elementary level. If we can bring their level of technology up to one higher than they now have, we will at the same time be opening up new markets for American goods.\ Initially, the organization was com- posed of local people from General Electric Union College, R.P.l., and a few other neighboring institutio~s­ Today, VITA has a l()cal chapter m New Holland, Pa., composed almost entirely of men of the _New Holland Machine Company, which manufac- tures agricultural machinery. Roches- ter, N.Y. has a chapter centered at Eastman Kodak. Distinguished members of VITA's Board of Directors include Dean Lockwood of Union Colle~e, Robert G. Luce of General ~lect~1c; Harvey Brooks Dean of Engmeermg at Har- vard· Walker L. Cisler, President of Detrbit Edis0n; General James M. Gavin; Gerard Piel, Edito~ and Pub- lisher of Scientific A.mencan; Jfred- erich Seitz, Pr~sident of the Natwn~l Academy of Sciences, and Dr·. Rob_er t Walker of washington Umvers1ty,. He explained VITA's philosophy this way: \We do this because we want to do something as individuals to help people, but in a way that doesn't involve the hazards of direct charity. Ours is a different kind of help. This is our way of expressing our concern for international under- standing.\ st. Louis, Missouri. Founded by Union Grad Volunteers for International Tech- nical Assistance was founded in 1955 by Dr. Robert M. Walker, a Union graduate who was then an atomic physicist at General Electric's Re- search Laboratory. He was searching THIS BLANK SPACE COURTESY OF RICHARD BALAGUR Uraft T~sl The Selective Service College Qualification Test will be given on March 11, March 13, and April 8, 1967. Any Selective Service regis- u·ant who is presently enrolled in. -college or is a high school senior or graduate, and has not ptev:lo'usly taken this test, may apply. Application, mailing envel- ope, and Bulletin of Informa- tion are available from Room #1 of the Administration Build- ing. Applications must be post- marked no later than February 10, 1967. Late applications will not be processed. OldDornt Evacuated By HAL ROSS Yesterday, to the relief of the long imprisoned residents of North College, the south section of Davidson Hall was opened. A recent announcement from the Office of Student Housing revealed that North College must be vacated by Monday. College vehicles are supposed to be provided to assist in the move from North College. The move will mark the closing of the second oldest dormitory in the nation. It will be renovated in the near future. Phones Installed According to David B. Laird, director of Residence Programs, the appliances for the utility kitchens and the televisions for the lounges should arrive with- in two weeks. The prob- lems which originally affected the installation of private tele- phones have been cleared up, and telephones are being in- stalled. Dormitory rules prohibit the use of tape or sticky substances on the walls, as they are plaster and easily damaged. According to Mr. Laird, the fr~.ernity sections should be in operation within one week. However Fox Hall will not be opened for at least another month. The vast spaces located in the basements of the new residence halls have been assigned to use for storage purposes. Interviews Representatives from a large Metropolitan Newspaper will be on .campus this week interview- ing candidates for editorial po- sitions. However, this will cre- ate a large number of staff and' editorial positions on the Concordiensis. Candidates should contact Rich Balagur at 393-3930, Alan Ziegler at 377- 36!1)1, or come for an interview Tuesday nights at the Publica- tion Office. THE PEANUT STORE featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. DIAMANTE'S Enjoy Our Fine Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable Dinning Room Opp. The Brownell G.ate on Nott Street Open Daily I 0 to I A.M. . Sundays 5 P.M. to I A.M. MAL DOMINY (B.S.E.E.) of the Bethlehem Steel Loop Course knows where the action is. He's an electrical engineer at the world's most modern steel plant- -our Burns Harbor Plant in northern Indiana. Join the action. First step: pick up a copy of \Careers with Bethlehem Steel and the Loop Course\ at your placement office. Then sign up for a campus interview. Our 1967 Loop Class has openings for technical and non-technical graduates (and post-grads) for careers in steel operations, research, sales, mining, accounting, and other activities. An Equal Opportunity Employer in the Plans for Progress Program BETHLEHEM STEEL Hewitt ... Co~nputer • • Continued from Page 1 Th~rsday, February 2, 1967 • equipment under this pmgram to col- leges throughout the country. Access More Selective Take one one Jerem: these fields. One ought to build on one's strength and not try to copy the big institutions in a small way.\ Gatesman Blasted As an example of the lack of cam- pus support, he mentioned one Gates- man who told a student expressing interest in Geology, \If you come to Union College you don't want to ma- jor in geology.\ Continued· from Page 1 central processing unit, the GE con- tribution includes five tape handlers capable of reading 21,000 characters per second, a central controller for the tape handlers, a printer capable of 1,200 lines per minute, a card reader that can read £00 punched cards per minute, and a card puncher that punches holes in cards at the rate of 300 cards per minute. According to P!esums, present computer facilities will not be re- tained, but appro[)riate transition classes for those students interested will be available in the future. Be- cause of the delicacy of the new computer, access to it will be neces- sarily more limited than computer access has been in the past. thoughtfully sonality, tre: 11 ffloads of tal• the fresh anc Chad and Jc Pwfessor Hewitt received his A.B. from Harvard in 1949 as a philoso- phy major, but stayed on one more year to do all his undergraduate work in geology. 'In 1958 he received his Ph.D. from Cornell. In addition to the National Associa- tion, Hew.itt has been president of the Eastern Section Association of Geol- ogy Professors and the New York Geology Association. He has pub:ished numerous articles in professional journals, and has in press an article entitled \Why Study Geology?\ The article is about the relationship between geology and a liberal education. QuoVadis? The computer itself is a somewhat souped-up version of the standard 415~ Union's computer, in addition to the standard insides, bas an addi- tional memory unit, floating point hardware and a direct access pack- age. Plesums said these refinements make for a \huge\ increase in the computer's capacity for scientific caculations. The Equipment Assistance Pro- grams, through. which the 415 dona- tion was made, is the oldest of GE's many educational programs and dates back to the turn of the century. Last year, G.E. gave nearly $4 million in Plesums emphasized, however, that a qualified student will have little difficulty obtaining computer time, and that any inconveniences in this respect will more than be offset by the new computer's superior capabil- ity. To make room for the 415, from $40,000 to $50,000 worth of new con- 1 l sttuction will be necessary: At least $:1:9,000 of this will be needed for air conditioning alone, .since tempera- ture must be held within t\vo de- grees of a fixed point and humidity may vary only .five percent. Yon know it. After graduation you'll have many paths to follow. And the path you take could affect the rest of your entire life. That's it. \Vhether you're interested in Com- puter Applications, Programming, Finance and Administration, Research and Develop- ment, Manufacturing or .Marketing, there could be a career for you with IBM. Right now you're probably looking for all the information about these paths that you can find. So here's some about IBl\1-and vou. The basic fact is simply this: \Vhatevcr your area of study, whatever your immediate com- mitments after graduation, chances a~c there's a career for vou with IBI\1. Another important point to consider: IBM is THE leader in THE major growth industry: information handling and control. The indllS- try itself may not mean much to you, just yet. But Jet us tell you about it. Whatever your immediate commitmen~:s, whatever your ar!C!a of study, f, sign up now for an onmcampus interview with IBM, February 21. 22. If, for some reason, you aren't able to arrange an intcrdew, drop us a line. \Vrite to: l\'lanager of College Recruiting, IB:\1 Corporation, 590 Madison Avenue, New York, N. V. 10022. IB.I\1 is an Equal Opportunity Employer. 'Q> I make their m ~-first release, day's Gone,\ Summer So1 Weep. For I diately soare• charts. They at drama sc cussing n-.usi views and Hence, the 1 Jeremy. Chad is a true sense of t\ piano, organ, d'olin, harn.o pet and the f and ice skati outside activ Jeremy Cl JVIarch 22 ir: England. H hides the f~ grandson of ington. Jeremy re tary educat Preparatory He continuec of Grenoble graduatin~ f: of Grenoble, the Central and Drama. tral, Jeremy an actor. HE productions M:iser,\ \A ons\ and \: gents Park tres. The Moun1 The play with the ca: con-men spc my, the \:: gold from l< The play fo this group a a lm First Sij THE ALC first produc orial since 1 a new light equipment ' head ligbtil hance the fects. The · is being re design by man, Artis· Union and partmeut oi be used for tumes are the Hooker- of f. Dram Union C · play are D John Gers'J Phii Rice, . Shepherd, j) 4 f' >f t' 'W T 9 4 ...........

to col- present be re- ansition Be- new neces- er, that e little time, in this by capabil- '-il 11 from ll con- least for de- II Thursday, February 2, 19-67 Chad And Jeremy Will .Swing Here .I) Take one Chad Stuart, add one Jeremy Clyde, blend thoughtfully with vibrant per- sonality, tremendous wit and flloads of talent; the result is the fresh and exciting sound of Chad and J crumy. The boys make their mark with their very g·first release, entitled \Yester- day's Gone,\ followed with \A Summer Song\ and '\Willow W For Me,.\ which imme- soared to the top of the charts. They r. et four years a.gp at drarna schOol, started dis- cussing rr.usic, and found their views and voic?S compatible. Hence, the birth of Chad and Jeremy. Chacl is a n:usician in the true sense of the word. He plays 1!: piano, organ, gtdar, lute, man- dolin, harn.onica,. vio'lin, t~ um- pet and the flute. S'ailing, tennis and ice skating take care of his \outside activities. Jeremy Clycle was born on ~rarch 22 in Buckinghamshire, England. His modesty often hides the fact that he is the grandson of the Duke of Well- ington. Jeremy received his elemen- tary edl:l()ation at Luclgrove Preparatory School and Eten. He continued at the University of Grenoble in France. After graduatinq; from the University of Grenoble, he too enrolled at the Central School .of Speech and Drama. Upon leaving .Cen- tral, Jeremy went to· work as an actor. He appeared in such productions as \Hamlet \The M:iser,\ \A Man for All Seas- ons\ and \Roots\ in the Re- gents Park and Dundee Thea- tres. Mountebanks To Present REGISTRATION The Mountebanks will present their first production of the season, THE ALCHEMIST by :Ben Jonson, next Tuesday night through next Saturday night. The. play is a farce dealing with the career of a group of con-men specializing in alche- my, the •·::,cience\ of making gold from less valuable meta~s­ The play fo!!ows the career of this group as they cheat and de- eive a knight, a druggist, a clerk, two anabaptist \brothers a wea~thy hick, and others. First Since Renovation THE ALCHEMIST will be the first production in Nott Mem- orial since the coilege installed a new lighting grid. This new equipment will allow for over- head lighting and greatly en- hance the desired lighting ef- fects. The wooden floor, which was constructed last season for THE MISTRESS OF THE INN, is being repainted following a design by Mr. Arnold Bitt:e, man, Artist in Residence at Union and member of the De- partment of the Arts, and will be used for the play. Pnriod cos- tumes are being furnished by the Hooker-Howe Costume Com- pany of Haverhin, Massachu- setts. Dram:Jtis P~rso:1~1 J Union C r cge sludents in the play are Dave Van Denbutgh, John Gers<Jn, i\Iichae1 Modern, Phil Rice, Jeff De i\ unn, John Shepherd, i.\:ark Watson, Gregor ·~ lchemist\ MEhaffey, Jody Sosnow, Dean Hoffman, Dennis Creighton, Gary Fidel, Steve Glanzrock, and Dave Toliver. The female roles are belng pLayed by Margaret Meriwether, wife of Prof. William Meri- wether, and Janet Nelarico, a st1.1dent at Linton High SchooL They play the characters of Dol Common and Dame Pliant re- spectively. Dean Hoffman is also stage manager for the pro- <duction. The play is being di- rected by Prof. William L. Meri- w~ther, Director of Theatre and A'<lvisor to the Mountebanks. Admission is free to faculty, staff, and students. Tickets for d:ates may be purchased for $1.00. General admission is $1.50. The box office is o]Jen d:aily from 1-5 and from 7-9 p.m. Tickets may be reserved .hy calling the box office. In accordance w'th Mountebanks t:cket rolicy, all Facu2ty, Staff, and Stu dent tickets will be held at the box cffice until the night of performan~e. when they must bE called· for by 8:10 p.m. or they will be re'eased for sale. G urtain t:n·e each night is B:ZO p.m. Students are urged to come to the Office of the Registrar, Room 2 of the Administration Building, prior to February 17, if they wish to alter the spring term courses for which they .previously registered. Changes must be approved in writing J:>y faculty advisers. Students who are uncertain of their earlier choices of spring term courses should inquire at the Office of the Registrar. Changes made at this time will help to alleviate the usual rush at the beginning of the term. The following courses will be available in the spring term, but they were not designated as availab'e when preregistra- tion took place: Comp Ed 35-Classical Liter- ary Forms, Comp Ed 55-Man and His Environment, Comp Ed 80-Literature and Psychology, Classics 33-Apocrypha and New Testament, Also, History 34--Democracy in Crisis: Civil War and Recon- struction, Chinese 34--The Clllnese Language in Practical Use II, Philosophy tO-Introduction to Philosophy, and Political Science 63-Political Parties and Interest Groups. \PORTRAIT OF THE COLLEGE\ L:~youi' men wanted for the largest section of the Garnet S·toff. All stucilents interested should meet tonight at 7:00 ;~.m. in the Concordiensis office at Old Gym Hall. /\r~ycn 3 un-:1ble to make the meeting can contad Mike IC:ufr.-::cm c:t 372-6117. tT>ft'f'Y9fr'frVtitf,:.ftYi\t+f\fTfF'tt+¥'f'f¥V~\w'ttifftfi¥ftYTff'tff'ift'f Jay Jewelry Co. 315 STATE STREET Purchased 1n Bel<;ium and Imported for Your Savings. EHminate the lmf='oder.and Wholesaler; Arnold Fisher '50 4 • A, 4 4- 4 .. ,I, 4 ,t, • + • 6 i, .. 6 ,t, # + 4. 4 6 i + A A 6 8 .. A + t + 6 4 ,4, + A • 6 ~ 4 l ,1, 4 + + + ,!, J.. 4 ~ 6 f 6 f 6 t 6 • 6 4 6 •• - 4 • 3 Teachers_ Distnissed • • Continued from Page 1 between the college's desire for a yo mig man to teach weB, do research and the pressure to get a Ph.D. \It is impossible to put this together unless one is quite brilliant,\ he declared. be put to work on his PhD. Sinton will write his diserta- tion after he leaves Union, get his Ph.D; and hopefully teach. He expressed no desire to re- turn to Union to teach. A school's policy is not necessarily congrous, with the academic ,problems a younger man faces; .to be competent in both re- search and teaching. Because of this the college is bound to lose younger men. tory 'Department to have all Ph.D.s. All members of the de- partment at present have or are soon getting their Ph.D.s, which Sinton felt a basic re- quirement for tenurs. \What ~~ good for the stu- dent is not n~cessarily good for the college.':' Most younger men run into twuble with their the- sis ·I>lus th~ .time spent planning courses because too much time ,is spent teaching. A perfect S')lution would be a man to teach for 3 years and then A partially motivating force behind the whole business might be the desire of the His- . Concordiensis Is An Approved Extra-Curric-ular Activity • Last year, thousands of lawyers, bankers 1 accO~nlants, engineers, dOctors and businessmen went back to college.._ . ' And.not just for the football games. We'd like to clear up what appears to be a misunderstanding. It is somewhat popular on campus to decry a business career on the grounds that you stop learning once you start working for Cliche Nuts & Bolts. That idea is ·groundless. We can't speak for Cliclle, but we can for ourselves-Western Electric, the man- ufacturing and supply unit of the Bell Sys- tem. 6 out of 10 college graduates who have joined us over the past 10 years, for exam- ple, have continued their higher education. How're these for openers : W.E.'s Tuition Refund Plan lets em- ployees pursue degrees while work- ·ing for us. Over 6 thousand have at- tended schools in 41 states under this plan. We refund more than $1 million in tuition costs to employees a year. To name another program: advanced engineering study, unde;r the direc- tion of Lehigh Univer~ity, is con- ducted at our Engin~Jeii:Jig Research • 'r' ,. ~ .. Center in Princeto11, N. J. Selected employees are sent there from all over the country for a year's concen- trated study leadillg to a master's degree. You get the idea. We're for more learn- ing in our business. After all, Western Electric doesn't make buggy whips. We make advanced communications equip- ment. And the Bell telephone network will need even more sophisticated devices by the time your fifth reunion rolls around. The state of the art, never static, is where the action is. At Western Electric, what's happening is the excitement and satisfaction of con- tinued doing and learning. If this happens to appeal to you, no matter what degree you're aiming for, check us out. And grab a piece of the action. Iii\ Western Electric ~ MANUFACTURING&SUPPLYUNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM

4 Movies: . ·~' · .... Experimental Films: Cubism, Symbolis.m, And Abstraction By PAUL SHERWIN The following films will be shown in Memorial Chapel, Friday at 7 and 9 p.m. Ballet Mechanique-This famous film by the distinguished cubist painter, Ferdnand Leger, employs a minimum of drawn or painted geome- trical forms and a preponderant amount of photo- graphic images. Even in the repeated scenes .of a woman mounting a staircase it nevertheless re- mains abstract, since the human figure is used exactly like the saucepan lids and eggbeaters, as an object in motion in a rhythmic~l composi- tion. Although made in 1924, Ballet is remark- ably like much of the underground film work of the present. The Seashell And The Clergyman-This was the film which called forth a once.famous ban by the British Board of Film Censors: \The filln is so cryptic as to be almost meaningless. If there be a meaning, it is doubtless objectionable.\ Could they have read it, the British censors cer- tainly would have objected to the phallic, castra- tion and Oedipal symbolism packed' into this film, which was made at the time when the surrealist movement was heavily under the influence of orthodox Freudianism. Un Chien Andalou-Directed by Luis Bunel and Salvador Dali, this is .perhaps .the best known of the early experimental fi'lms. Remembering that the primary aim of the surrealist movement was to be the expression of dreams and thought tangents by an imaginative person provoked by material surroundings and placed on paper or canvas, it is natural that the film lends itself to an expression which demands imaginative velocity and moral nonchalance, unlimited risi- bility and sensitivity to the fantasy of the com- monplace. Bunel's film, while containing some unpleasant material (i.e. the gouging out an eye by a razor), is one of the most dynamic ever made. It has an intensity of expression unknown in most examples of cinema, an intensity gained from the material and not from the technical assembling. There is a· fluid continuity that is amazing in its swift transference of thought. Men- tion should also be made of the extraordinary acting of Pierre Natcheff. Meshes of the Afternoon'-This first work by Maya Deren was the film which sparked the post- war eN;perimental revival in the United States. In its imagery and 1.ymbolism, its preoccupation with unconcious experience and its uncertain trasition between dream and reality, it was and remains the model of the bulk of subsequent avant-garde work. Its lustrous1 t)li_otography set a new standard of technical competence in the experimental field. Although at times pretentious and arty, Meshes approaches a type of personal expression in cinema analogous to the lyric poem. Allegretto-This 1936 color abstraction to jazz was the first and is yet< 'perhaps the finest ex- ample of the comingling of sound and color in the cinima. ARtlUND .TOWN . · \- . ,\: . . ALBANY Theatres: Delaware-\Blow-up\ Hellman-\The Bible Story\ Hellman-\Doctor Zhivago\ Palace-\The Blue Max\ SARATOGA Cafe Lena-John Winn College Inn-Sour hour Sunday 3:00 to 6:00 p.m. D'Andrea's-Sour hour Friday 4:00 to 6:00 p.m. No name-now open Rip Van Dam-Sour hour Friday 7:00 to 9:00 p.m. SCHENECTADY Theatres: Colony-\A Funny Thing Hap- pened on the Way to the Forum\ Proctors-\The Blue Max\ Scotia Art-\Alfie\ State-\The Sound of Music\ Linton High School-Modern dance con- cert, Feb . .2-and 9, 8:30 p.m., students $1.50 by Capital Area Modern Dance Council TROY Cinema Art-\Alfie\ Proctors-\The Blue Max\ Troy-\The Defector\ and \Horror Castle\ 135 ERIE BOULEY ARD Thursday, February 2, 1967 .\Fell ow Sots, D·runks, Inebriates . • • By G. E. MC DONALD 'ICING Fellow sots, drunks, inebriates, t\.()Ues Baccha- lantes, topers, rakes, Sybarites· let me take a few minutes ()f your Pahphian,. T~mulent,. pot- valiant, maudlin, gormandizing, ,s-winish time. If you can spare a few minutes frc)]n inter pocula, listen a bit to the accusations of o()~e Mr. Mercer who calls himself a man of Gml but in reality is. the lowest of :the lowly who bo-d on this earth. Mercer Speaks A week ago, the sai,d Mr. Mencer spoke to us in chapel and told of the great pleasure it gave him to address a group of young; •eollege gentle- men. On Friday night, the same Mr. Mercer addressed a church gathering and. in part uttered the following di,gnified words: \How your community need's the Christian North College: service of every thinking man and woman. Do you know that after the Saturday night college dances whiskey bottles are strewn about on the campus? That your young women dance with these men under the influence of liquor? It is up to you to find out where the whiskey comes from. If some of you business men would only go to the college and talk to those boys and make them realize what a mistake they are making. \One day this week I went to the college and crept unobserved into a back pew. During Dr. Richmond's beautiful prayer lasting about five minutes I heard more· profanity among the boys seated near me than I have heard before in a week's time. There is something radically wrong (Yes-with yo\1). We are students in a New York college, This The Do:rnt and the Myth North College: May she rest in one piece. By BARRY NEWlV'~SI' The fight to save North Colleg:e is entering the critical phase, and the fate of tne landmark should be sealed before long Save the Old North College Inc., an alliance of lJnion students and alumni whose hearts are e;mblazened with rancorous recollections of the farn()IUS dormitory, are meeting in the basement of B:ronner House Monday night to plot strategy. The organization is patterned! after the Com- mittee to Save the Old Meth and is striving to meet with a similar end. T e ess-ential conten- tion com'erns the plans of the adninistration to gut the structllre and refurbish it i31 the manner of South College. Spokesman If these plans are carried «JUi, a spokesman for the group argued, North Colleg;e and its ma- lignant memory is likely to live om for decades. The organizatioa is demandin.g that the dorm be left untouched, and. expects it to crumble in a cloud of stucco dust within a Ee\.'9 weeks. Acording to a maintenance wol'\ker straining against a creaking beam in tlu e~»llege's cellar, the prediction of Save Old N ()rt;h College Inc., is conservative~ A school ad:rnini.strator, nerv- ously dodging a bevy of scrawiJe::y rats, main· tained during an inspection of the cellar, how· ever, that \with two or three maintenance work· ers down here and a new coat fjf d'l.lst, the build- ing will be servicable for another century at least.\ The administration has found that considering the cost of the garrish new dorms, -which exceed- ed all estimates as a result of denands for dorm counsellor dressing rooms aml' practice stages equipped with closed circuit tele-vision, North College must be dismantled slmrly and not per- mitted to CDllapse. Incurred Loss Plans to re~oup part of the ·loss incurred by the new law dorms were alrea!ly being imple- mented yesterday. The bookst()re p-laced on sale, in a gilt album with vermillion Union College seal on the C()V~r. a rflcor«;ling of •cQIJeping Water- fights at the Old North\ whielt in.cluded a fair sized swatch ()f shower curtain, Si>'me with rust stains. A booth in front of Middle Sectloll was erected this week, and is doing a land o:ffice business in orders :for ancient inscripti()lns; . carved . into windowsills and doors. The Schenectady museum has arranged to saw away a complete room, probably the famed \pink room\ in North Sec· tion, to be placed on permanent display. The room contains a mint-condition etching by S. W. Bert which says, in part, \S. W. Bert was here, 1848_,. The room was also the scene of the only known attempt by students to bore a passa~e to Middle Section through the three foot thick wall The accomplices in that en- deavor weJ;\e asked to repaint tne room before they were expelled, and chose pink. Auction Movable articles, such as loose faucets and chunks of fallen plaster were selling £or about $5, while larger items such as beds, sinks and staircacses were auctioned. One lad was seen carrying in his arms a complacent looki~g man in his sixties who is said to have lived in the dorm sine~ his undesired birth near the turn of the century, The doors to rooms once occupied by some of the great personalities who performed in North College are generally reserved for family and dear frien<Is. The entrance to the room of the famous ''Drip,\ who is renowned for his surpass- ing virtuosity in drenching all thirty-two otber occupants of his section while climbing up and down the fire escaPe in a white bathrobe, has been removed to the college archives in the Geology building. · · Members of the Save Old North Colleg~ Inc. picketted the sale, carrying signs imploring pas- sers-by to phone the governor. No incidents were reported, but one demonstrator tr.pped over a five-foot hunk of masonery that had slipped off the roof. Doomed Old North, despite the efforts ()f its detestors, appears do()med to retention. The state landmark commission may go to the courts to request an injunction against retaining the blot, but Union has already contracted a new maintenance \Vorker to help hold the btlilding up. One more militant member of Save the Old North Inc. said he would make the college regret its decision to remodel the \hole\ by: throwing himself into the path of a bulldozer antl wrecking it himself. The amount of studqnt support he rallies will probably determine forever if the inglorious tradition of North College will bP forced to continue. is fortunate for the person of Mr. Mercer. Were ~ we in his own Alma Mater of Virginia and were such an accusation made in the hearing of that Southern CJilege, the rope would soon be swing- ing. However, since· we are more considerate J Northerns, Mr. Mercer has taken advantage of our law abiding qualities: Putrid Past But is the accusation true or is Mr. Mercer mearly judging us by his own rotten, putrid past? All men do not pass through a stage of un- licensed inebriation merely because Mr. Mercer ''I has done SG. Students at Union ColLege are not wont. to spend all their time in drinking, rolling the galloping ivories, taking English shots at the ten baH or other such amusements such as ·:, entirely consumed the time of the --~-~ (We can hardily call him a gentleman), who has a~cused us thus openly. There is not a single man m college we are thankful to say whose life is one tenth as bad as Mr. Mercer boasted ). to us that his has been. Things to brag about fitting only of a Mercer. We defy the seU-called missionary of the Gos- pel to tell us when one whiskey bottle lay 'J strewn all over the Campus after a Saturday night dance. True it is that some college students may have drunk a little once in a while but never have we noticed whiskey botles scattered broad- J cast all over the campus. Remember that to be strewn there must be a large quantity. We have atended more Saturday or Friday or· other night dances than Mr. Mercer ever wHl have an op- PO!tUnity to attend at Union College and never ' have we seen such a condition. We are willing to take an oath on this and if Mr. Mercer has any regard for the word o:£ Him whose gospel he says that he is preaching, we defy him to take a like oath, Swear Again he says we swear in chapel. In fact to I quote Mr. Mercer, \During Dr. Richmond's beautiful prayer lasting about five minutes I heard more profanity among the boys seated near me than I have heard in a week's time.\ One 1 thing at least is certain. Mr. Mercer is deaf to his own words. More swearing than he has heard in a week's time. Words can't express in dignified language just what we think of Mr. Mercer for this statement but in the talk Of the street he would be called a little word of three letters and these would be preceded by a little of the profanity which he found inapropos. Personally, we are not inclined to take Mr. 'J Mercer seriously. He has shown us that he is to be classified as a screeching lunatic. Un- doubtedly he believes himself b be a second Luther or a Calvin. In reality he resembles the · \' assassin o£ President McKinley who s!ew the president to get his name on the front page of the newspaper. By slandering the college, Mr. Mercer managed to get his name on the front page of several local papers. He undoubtedly ,J would have tried suicide but then again he is of so little importance and significance that the tale of this would be confined to two or three lines underneath Clasified Advertising. ; Imbiber Mr. Mercer seems to have imbibed all his in- t J formation in the few days he was in this town. But no-any fool can fabricate a system of beauti- ful lies extempore. The question of Mr. Mercer's whereabouts now arise. He should be here to 1 defend his charges. We don't know what course to advocate the students to follow. We are not accustomed to deaJ with raving maniacs. So we wollld advise that the state analyst examine Mr. Mercer or rJ Julius Caeser or Christy Mathewson or whatever else the accused may think himself to be. In his talk here, our worthy Mercer advocated specialization.. But for heaven's sake dC>n't follow ·J his example and specialize in slander. 'l'ill we meet again, Mr. Mercer, au revoir but when we do,' may the best man win. 'I The abo·oe article is an editorial rcjninted, from the January 21, 1921 issue o( Concord- imhis. · COLLEGE ARTS magazine is sponsoring a $2000 poetry contest, open to all poets. The first four grand prize winners will have their own book of .. -\ poetry edited and published by the JTC Publish- ing Co., while every entrant will receive .an anthi- ogy of the top lOlJ prize winning poems. Write for details: Poetry Contest, Box 314, West Sacra- mento, California 95691. ./ Ser'Ving Union For 33 Years Boulevard Bowl SILVEI DINER of Schenectady Student Nite at Willard WilLARD MTN. SKI AREA 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK BAR ON PREMISES Let the lager freely flow. Down to Louis', let us go, A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT • Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Food Unexcelled in This Area For reservations phone FR 4-8917 ERIE BOULEVARD 6 A.N.. - 11 P.M. 346-9522 Exr.=eiJent Food and InFormal Atmosphere UBI.ON BOOK COMPANY 237-241 STATE STREET Bools ••. Paperback Classics ---,:-.--- Part)i Favors • • • Art Supplies Office Supplies 7-10 P.M. North Easton, N. Y. 45 Minutes from Compus. EVERY FRIO~ Y NIGHT Student $1.50 -Pate $1.00 LU~CH 7!.5 Albany Street Specializing: - HOT DOGS WITH FAMOUS SAUCE . - PINNERS AND SANDWICHES - TAKE-OUT ORDERS - Union Students Favorite Spot - (Serving Schenectady Since 1921) Open 7 Days Per Week 6 A.M. - 4:00 A.M. J Thurscfay, €: This i~ • with the Ma1l' nrp ajJt cesses tl. Granted but neil as the S, t'' or the n The fi visibly 1 would lE • tention 1 the helt indepenc and adn !£ blindly either p situation .,; This s change 1 anti-fratE it may t editor, d all the s1 expressil troversy. • remain i As th \another former ~ 1.1 and effo disagree. to exam year at 1 lifi fraternit pling of if For tll ing systE Mark M other sc • and Lee our syst of its rE There and mo • didn't h \Stuc prep. $1 ,5( • Madr paye s ' • • MAYF. At thE • TUI THL • • ~' ¥ ,. ¥ ¥ ~ ~ ' I

,'I 1 1967 Thurscfay, FebruarS' 2, 1967 5 New Scene: • Were ~ 6 Rushing: Frosh and Fraternities Speak were of that swing- Jazz: Different J II of no contact during the period between the first bids and Pledge Night was need~d. Fraternities were unsure if they were permitted to associate with their prospective pledges du~ing this period, due to contrary rumors circulating on campus. Trends Emerge Mercer past? of un- Revision By CLIFFORD SAFANE Mercer 'I l 1 are not The F~ji Rushing Chairman Bob Gresham, ag1'eed w1th Strauss that Dorm Rush and second bid practices were poor, and need revision next year. Gresham felt that Friday night was a bad time for Dorm Rush. He also would have pre· ferred two evenings of Dorm Rusll, as was the case last year. Strauss emphasized the need for m()re time between Dorm Rush and ,the matching of second bids. In recent years, fraternities have had on 'y 3 or 4 days in which ,to get to know fr£shman they may have missed during the initial rushing period. This is not sufficient time, and isn't fair to either the freshmen .or the fraterni- ties. A more reasonable period Vlould last at least a week or 10 days. With the avant garde throwing jazz into com· plete disaray, some people have been asking · where jazz. i~ going, This is a difficult question to ansVIer since the music has been going in . several directions, but, nevertheless, one that should be answered. I believe that three recent albums show the basic trends which the music is taking. The albums are Spiritual Unity by Cecil Taylor (Blue Note), Three Waves by Steve Kuhn (Contact), and Indo Jazz Suite by Joe Hariott (Atlantic). rolling at as ·:p 1 ), who whose boasted .). : 4' about Gos- lay '.t aturday never broad- J to be have night an op. never ' willing cer has ~ospel h1m to fact to ' I near One , deaf to · he has in Mr. of the three a little Mr. \J be is Un- second the · • ew the page of Mr. front ubtedly ·' he is hat the r three ) his in- 'J s town. beauti- to 1 the to advise rJ or ·J follow we hen we 'I \? $2000 four book of \1 \- anthi- Write Sacra- ./ j Younger Musician Two aspects of fraternity life: H<>u~eparctie~ and Studying. Tim Williams, Theta Delta Chi's Rushing Chairman, suggested that experience has shown that the individual fraternities would he wise to conduct much of their rt.Jshing away from the chapter house. He felt that \\ was' easier fDr peo· ple to get to know one {lnl)tl\er in a more natural social environment, not always attainable in the somewhat stifled and artificial environment of 'a meal up at the house.' Steve Kuhn is one. of today'.s younger jazz musicians. His music, as represented on Three Waves, spans both the more traditional jazz as well as the avant garde. Such standards as \Neve• Let Me Go\ and \Why Did I Choose' You\ are given comparatively calm treatment althQugh Kuhn does give them beauty and di- mension. But \Three Waves\ and \Now l Am a Man\ are given the full new music exploration of the unknown. Kuhn seems to have an excel- lent approach to jazz. He is aware of the past as well as the future. And be plays the best from both fields. Ey LEN KAGAN This is the first of a series of articles dealing • with the Union College frate1·nity system. Many memben of the college rommunilj' nre ajJt to !Jlarne the fraternities frw an)• ex• cesses they obsewe within th:e student body. Granted, the fraternity system is not perfect, but neither is any otlu:r unit on campus, such as the Student Cnuncil, the dormitory system. (' or the newly-created All College Council. The faults of the fraternity system, although visibly present, are not as excessive as some would lead us to believe. It is therefore our in- « tention to examine the system impartially, with the help of both the fraternity man and the independent, along with members of the faculty and administration, and rather than condemn \' blindly and emotionally, to delve, and offer either praise or constructive criticism, as the situation may warrant. Radical Change This series may appear to some as a radical change of Concordiensis policy. The seethingly anti-fraternity editorial of January 19, although ~ it may have expressed the policy of the ~ormer editor, didn't neces~arUy express the feelings of all the staff members: Concordy welcomes articles expressing opinions on both sides of this con· troversy. This author. though, will attempt to \ remain impartial. As the above-mentioned editorial proclaimed \another year of rushing is over,\ but the former editor labelled it \another waste of time 41 and effort.\ From my own observations, t must disagree. But I prefer to delve a }}it deeper; to examine the rushing techniques as seen this year at Union. To do this, I spoke to a number of \ fraternity rushing chairmen, and a random sam- pling of freshmen. Superior System For the most part, all felt that the Union rush- ing system was basically well run. One ;fre§Jlman, Mark Martland, who has spoken to frosli from other schoo:s such as Northeastern, Waahington • and Lee, University of Texas and RPI, felt that our system was far superior, especially because of its relaxed and infoqnal nature. There were a number of suggestions; however, and most freshmen felt that the fraternities • didn't have enough time to really get to know the freshmen. Others' felt that they didn't allow themselves t() meet enough freshmen, and therefore, as Dave Seely noted, \Some people are always left out.\ The freshmen generally stressed a desire to see a longer rushing period, with m.ore c(lntact, and a better opportunity to really get to know the brothers, and get a true impression of the house. One freshman, Ed Czaja, felt that more casual Sunday rilte~noon fttnctions would be helpful, especi~lly because the standard Saturday night \rushing party\ is actually a poor situation tinder which to meet the brothers. Fred Press sug- gested that the timetable be revised to allow for more time between our return from Winter Vaca- tion, and the first round of bids. He felt that the single \Veekend available during this period for final rushing· functions made it difficult for fresh· men to spend enough time at each of the fra- ternities tbat they were interested in, and there- fore one or two of the houses might get the im- pression that they had lost interest. \ . Chairmen The fraternity rushing chairmen were also a'· most unanimous on a number of points. With the fraternity view in mind, none thought rush- ing should be extended. One fraternity man, Neal Ogden thought that it should be shortened for \reaso~s of economy, in time and money.'' Brian Izzo, the Phi Epsilon Pi Rushing Chairman, ~x­ pressed preference for a shorte':, but more In- tense ~,>rograin which would begm sooner, after a som~h:at sh~rtened period of initial no CDntact. Jerry Stnauss Sigma Phi's Rushing Chairman, had a ntlmber 'of constructive su~gestions that would further improve future rushmg programs. He felt that a clarification of the rules regarding Complaint The most frequently encountered complaint among the freshmen concerned the fact that lin- less a fraternity invites a freshman over for a meal, it is very difficult for hirn to let a house know that he is interested in joining. The rush, ing chairmen indicated that it is also difficult .for the fraternities to meet every freshman they might care to, and that they welcome fresh· men to 'just wander over to the hDuse to take a look.' Of course, all agree that many people can't overcome an innate shyness, and find it .difficult to walk in without an invitation. Obsta de This is a formitable obstacle tq overcome, but perhaps if it was emphasized, bDth in tbe IFC Rushing Booklet and during Orientation, m()re freshmen would feel free to take a look at the houses on their own. In this manner, rushing would become more of a two.way proposition, and many freshmen, who wouldn't otherwise be in- vited up for meals, would be in a better p()si- tion to be rushed. This would in large part al- leviate the problem of the fraternities' inability to meet enough people, and some of those who are now left out, would in the future be in· eluded. But this will never occur unless more emphasis is placed on the necessity ()f putting rart of the burden of rushing on the freshmen themselves. This author sincerely hopes tlut those who formulate next year's rushing program will c<>n· sider the merits of some of these variDus sug- gestions, for they are the opinions of tltt>se wbo are most directly concerned. , tlC,r~y More cpaces are open ot Ccncordy; Engineers, Mathematicians: JOIN NOW!! Contribute to Technical Programs of Natianal \Study yeQr abroad in Sweden, fran~e, or Spain. Coli ege· prep., junior year abroad and graduate progtt~mmes. · $1,500 guarantees: round trip flight to Stockholm, Paris or Madrid, dormitories or apartments, two meals daily, tuiti~n payed. Significance sa Write: SCANSA 50 Rue Prosper Legoute, Antony - Pari$, fran~e\ ~I~~~~~~~~~~ ' The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SIIOP 262 SCfratoqa Roqcl MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sign qf the Red.. Nepn Pipe TUES. thru SAT.7 I<> 9 P.M. THURS. anq FRi.: 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA, N. Y. Phone 399-1630 FERRO PHARMACY 575 ~~tt Stteet. Schenectady, N. V. FR 7..0510 • FOUNTAIN SERVICE ~· ¥ •. ¥ ••• ¥ ..... f ., ~· y' .. ' ... ~ ...... ,. \ v • \ ......... ¥ .... ' •• ,:. • ·, ... . II II II Creating secure communications systems and equipments unknown anywhere else. This.isthe mission of the National Security Agency-a mission which in t!.Jrn creates problems of a high order of difficulty, re- quiring an uncommon amount of ingenuity. There is no other organization like it ... no other organization doing tlie same im- portant work, or offering the same wealth ofopportunity for imaginative graduates in mathematics or the engineering sciences. A separate agency operating within the defense establishment, NSA has a critical requirement for: MATHEMA TICI.ANS. To define, formulatll and solve complex communications-nlated problems in support of iile NS.A mission. Statistical Jllathematlcs~ matrix algebra, 11nlte fields, prol>ability. combinatorial analysis; programming and symbolic logic are but a few of the tools applied by Agency mathematicians. They enjoy the full support cfNS.A 's completely eqoip,ped computer laboratory wllere many of them oft~n become lnvol.ved ir1 both the hardware aflll&j software oi advanced com- puting system.s. Tfleoretlcal resa~r~h Is also a primary c:eru:ero at NSA, owing to the fact that ~lfetptesent state of knowledge in certai!l fields of mathematics h; not sufficiently .acMmeecJ to .satisfy NSA re- quirement&'. CAREJ!R QEN£FITS Cecil Taylor's new album. Spiritual Unity, on the other hand, is completely within the relm of the new music. And the results are electrify- ing. Taylor's music is so intense, that the listener is completely immersed in sound. It is the sound of today, a series of noises which seemingly have no relationship to each other but really fit into a definite pattern. One is either drawn into it or repelled. There is no middle ground. But no matter bow the listener reacts, Taylor is a creative artist who has been ignored far too long. I feel that his talent will become increasingly more recognized as the new jazz gains a larger audien(!e_ Combination Indo Jazz Suite by Joe Hariott combines Indian music and jazz. Some of the album's tunes are based on Indian scales called ragas. The sitar and tabla, an Indian drum, are used to give the tunes their oriental quality, while Hariott im- provises over them in his own free-jazz style. The results are quite stimulating. Hariott im- provises quite fluently and the Indian instru- ments keep things moving, and at times, generate quite a bit of excitement. The album shows that musicaJly, the East and West can be combined in a meaningful way. Hariott's experiments are a start for jazz in exploring the possibilities of Indian music, a start which I hope is carried even further. T-be '\Cipher Disk\ ••• NSA symbol and ~~~e of th() oldest and most effec- tive ~;ryptographic devices known. association$ and assists you to attend na- tlonill meetings, seminars, and conferences. located between Washington and Balti- more~ .. NSA Is also near the Chesapeake Bay~ ocean beaches and other summer and winter recreation areas. The location per- mits your choice of city, suburban or country living. . ~ ~ ~ ' .t DEWITT'S Cafeteria and Tap Raom ENGINEERS. To carry out basic and applied research, desi·gn, .development, testing and evaluation of large-scale cryto- communications and EDP systems. Engi- neers may also participate in related studies of electromagnetic propagation, upper atmosphere phenomena, super- ccm4uctivity and c~yogenics using the latest equipment ior advanced research wlttlln the Agency's fully Instrumented !~!)oratories. Career progrC)ms are de- ::;lgned to develop the prqfe~sional en- gineer for a fuiJ. and $atisflling future in researt:h or man<mement. With NSA, r:Qt,l '~loll all the benefits of Federal emp Pyro~nt Wil~~ut the necessity of Civil S!lr:V ce cqr:tif;~llt1on. NSA 1 :; gen.erovfi {lraduale study program permits you to pursue two semesters of (ull- timll grad,uate study .at full sa/f!.tY .with aca- demic c'O~fs paid by fiSA. The Age11cy also encourag.es partlc:ipai.loh in professional Starting salaries, depending on educa- tion and experience, range from $7,729 to $12.873. Clleck now with your Placement Office to arrange an Interview w.ith tile NSA representative visiting your campus, or write to: Chief, College Relations Bra11ch, Suite 10,4435 Wisc<Jnsin Avenue, N. W .• Washington, D.C. 20016. An eq Jal opf)ortunity employer, M&F. ~ Fine ·food and Legal hverages :' ~· 4 ... ' j: ... ' national s,curity agency 1 18 - 120 JAY STREET ~ • • .. where imaginJtion is tile essential qualification. . f . 4 ~ ...... + •••••••••• I I ••••••• t ••• 't • I •••••• ,, •• .: •.•••

6 aronrnr Committee Against Bombing To The Editor: The controversy over Viet- nam has passed the point ·of being merely an academic exer- cise for debate; an issue to be discussed in worthwhi:Ie but admittedly ineffectual conversa- tions. It has resulted in one Published Thursdays during \be scnooa . year bY tho Student Body of Union Collefl'e, Schenectady. N. Y. National JJ;dltorlal orttce, Old Gym, Union cot- of the largest, loudest, and most lege. Pul>llcatlon Office. Schenectady • widely spread protest mOVe· Printing Company, 602 Broadway. ment in re.cent history. No longer is the movement flee as Second Class :\I all lila tter. limited to a small, but vocal Subscription 15c a copy; $8 a year minority Of ·radical students delivered anywl1ero in the 1'nlt~d who have been shrugged off Entered In the Schenectady Post Of- : · Advertising Representative: National AdvtH•tising Service. Inc.. Colleg~ Publishers Representative, 420 :Madl- son AVP .. N. Y. C. States. J<l:-<!>I'H .\. ~1.\:-;:-;, .JH. '6< J.\I'K l•:TKI:\\ 't;S liiKNIOR BOARD as being everything from \beat- nik peace creeps\ . to \com- .. ~J<litor-in-Chlc>t munist dupes.\ (Check New .... Business ManagE'r · York Daily News editorials for HOBI~HT :<T<>!.?.BgRG 'li;. • HH'IIARD ll.\.L,\(.Jl•R 'Iii!. ALA:\ ;i,H:(H.Elt '·611 :.\ll<'HAI•JL I.I':YI:-;-J•:PS'rl·:rs '611 ... f.~,litur Enu•ritus ... ~ews Editor .. . .. .I•'PaturPs liJditor ..... ··~·$pnrts F!rlltor JUNIOR BOARD A-lan 1\.ll•in '6!l ..• \~s't ~~\\'S I~ditor l>iek Danit>l · 10 . Jlhotographer Peter .rirotmun • 60 Local AdVPI'tlslng Manager ' George Volanakis '6~ ................. Subsc1·iptton 1\lhmi.tger .......... National Adv~rtising l.1ani.ger . Joel Rubenzahl '68 ····· ................................. ···· .Dist·ribut·ion l\Ian\lger H\'nnr RinPs '69 C'lr£•ulation !'ofilnrlger Paul <\Tt~rl.H::'r '6S , : NE\\'S: Brian Holh .. y. I..t .. n Kagan. ~f'il Kramel', Ri<\hard Pat.tt~rsoh. (\Ul'l ii;ngle- ·bart. Hal H.oss. all too rare to fi-nd a student courageously spealdng his mind, no matter whom or what his·· criti~isms P.appen to be aimed at. Although I feel that the tone of his letter may ·have been .a bit too parsh, I substantially. agree with much <>f its content. Eut I feel that \))hurber mny have missed the main poin,t. 'fhe ~oin~ is not ~lut Mr .. Foster lS bemg :6.red while Prof .. .Peter- son i.s being retained, the point is that the College :refuses to see that it cannot tm1y survive as a liberal educational institution un~ess it has a stro:ug philosophy department.. The College can·, not fire Prof. Peterson,. he has tenure. But this d<Jes not mean that the system of .tenure is mtten; rather I would argue that the granting. of tenure is necessary if the university lee- · tttrer is to have the total free- dom which he needs in order t() write and say vvhat he likes. · The college teacher must not· fear the Joss of his job becau$e of what he writes or says, and it is only the granting of tenure that can remove this fear. We shou:d not blame ·the system because there ar-e those who would abuse it. The real point, as mentioned above, is not that the College Thursday, February 2, 1967 ' . ·'l'htll'!'l'cla)';\ Februat•y 2.: Junior Class Meeting 11 :30 ' . p,tn., Mel;ll.Dl'ial Chapel. Friday, .flebl'IJ,Bl'l' :! : Film Series: An Evening of Experlm(;,p.tal Films: \The Seashell,\ \The Clergyman,\ \Un Chien Andalou,\ \Meshes of th~ Afternoon,\ \Allegre to,\ \Ballet Meehan!- . qu~:· 7 :oo and 9 :00 p.m .. Memorial Chapel. • Saturday, Fepruary 4: Varsity swimming; Union . vs. Hamilton, 1:30 p.m., ·Gym. : ,. ;., F.ref!hma:Jil Wrestling: Union vs. Hartford, 2:30 , · .p.m., ·Gymnasium. Wrestling: Union vs. Hartford, 2 :30 p.m., ' 'Gymnasium. Freshma11 :Bask ~tball : Union vs. Rochester, 6 :15' p.m., Memorial Field House. Basketball: Union vs. Rochester, 8:00 p.m., ·Memorial Field House. · · i'uesday, February 7: Student Council Meeting, 7:30· p.m., Hale House Student Lounge. Mountebank Production: \The Alchemist,\ by:: ·Ben Jonson, 8 :3'0 p.m., Nott Memorial Theatre. WedJ.lesday, l'ebruary 8: Marine Corps information, 10:0()-2:00 p.m., H.H.SL. : Freshman Sw!mming: Union vs. Wesleyan, <t :00 p.m., Gymnasium. · Freshman Basketball: Union vs. R.P.I., 6:15 .p.m.; )1-!emorlal ;Field House. Science Seminar: \Coi;!jl.inction in Axenic Parmnecla-Frustrations and Aspirations,\ . Prof. 'Henry Butl:lel, 7:15 p.m .. Hale House Student Lounge. . Basketball: Union vs. R.P.I., 8:00 p.m., Me- morial Field House . \The Alchemist,\ 8:30 p.m., Nott Memorial ·Theatre. i'hursday, February 9: Con vocation: Judith Crist, · . · Dratna Ci'itic, \Every Man -A Critic,\ 11 :30 · · -a.nr,; Menl:orfal Chapel. · - ·-·. ' ·~The Alchemist,\ 8 :30 ,p.m., Notrt Memorial · · Theatre. · · I•'I~ATt'RF.:S: St~Vl .. F'ox. Brinn Izzo, Jin1 Koltz. SPOR'f~: :llil<e F:u<'hs. :\like Klayman. Jeff Kurzius, Len Simon. these and other epithets). Re- cently at Union, a man of the reputation and integrity of Ar- thur Schlesinger, with several years in . the White House to add to his credentials, stated that the bombing in Vietnam was not only useless but even detrimental, du.e to the possi- bility that it might lead us into a bigger war. This is in addi- tion to the senseless suffering that it is causing. Schlesinger also said that Johnson was plac- ing too much emphasis on mili- tary advice in a situation which is much ·more political. In re- has decided to fk·e Mr. Foster, · ·· although I feel that he certainly .;==~;;;;;;.;;==~==========;;;;;;;;;;======== A th R • • t d cent weeks, the New York . ·pa y . e'V\S\ .· e > Times has run \ads\ submitted It II by professors, writers, artists, · engineers, .and architects, op- Whenever students at Union feel the need to crit~ci~e, posing government policy. one inevitably finds that one or another stud~~t. act1~11ty Many have grown completely becomes the topic of dissection. Although critlctsm IS a disgusted with the President's · f · di 'd 1 't i indeed policy but have taken the atti- common enough pursmt or ~~my m Vl ua s, 1 s . t~Jde that nothing will change strange to see the profuse gnpmg and the meager amount his mind. Robert Sherrod, in his of constructive worl{ which many students regularly choose -recent article in Life magazine, to contribute to student-managed organizati_o~s_. . denounces the.war bu~ says .~hat WRU ·C of the largest student actlvtbes, IS for- now all that 1s left 1s to Let , one . . . · us pray.\ . tunate to have a well-staffed membership. The sttuatlon Hdwever President Johnson differs quite markedly, however, with the Garnet! Idol, who was s~ uncouth as to pas~ and CmlCordiensis, which are activities of no less 1mpor- off s.erious, · concerned, lolal tance A new and enthusiastic editorial staff on the Garnet ~meriCans as Nt;rvous Ne_ll~es, · · k' h d t . r duce a yearbook of a far better na- ~s s!l~h a pragmatic and political IS wor mg a~ o P o . . mdlvidual that the only way to ture than Umon has been bles~e~ With .m the past t~o effect a change in his policy is years. Don Abood has been pnn~mg a literary ma~azme to make the pr?test movement with contributions from an unbelievably small port~on_ of as loud as po~s1ble. _Then, per- U. ion students And Concordiensis has been publishmg haps, L.B.J. ~111 begm ;to .worry ~ · d k d t ff All . f th se about somethmg that IS lmpor- With the help of a small a:r: . ove_rwor e s a · 0 e tant to him: his election in '68. groups need studen~ participation and, for some strange C~tainly. one can't. appeal to reason, are not gettmg any. . h1s conscien«:!e. · . . \ The irony of this situation is more than obv1ous. Stu; We are ~gamzmg an ad dents accuse an organization of lacking fair representation hboc\b. com~utteNe. ttoh svt<?Pt the h th 't t' · om 1ng m · or 1e nam, and flippantly refuse to take steps to ~ ang~ e Sl ua IOn. with the immediate goal\ 'to col- Freshmen hear that the newspaper IS umque compose~ lect as manY signatures as pos- of members from one fraternity. Upperclassmen charge· sible in coordinati_on with other that the newspaper is biased and irresponsible, that news area colleges. It 1s hoped ~hat · · 1 t ' d th t th r generally enough money could be raised ?overage IS mco!llp e e, poor an a_ e pape _ to buy advertising space to ex- IS of a poor quality. Some of these atbt~des may stem from !)ress our views. ignorance and some may be grounded m fact. The unfor- Perhaps Union doesn~t feel tunate work themselves into an annual frenzy over some t~at it deserves. a say in na- controversial subject diSCUSS it COnStantly for a Week, t~onal ~ontroversleS or that na- • ' 1 k 'd 't' 1 tte t t10nal 1ssues aren't Important. and perhaps, if we are uc y, consl er Wri mg a e r 0 If the former is true then it is the editor. More often then not, such letters never reach self imposed, and if the latter the newspaper. . is true, then it's time we stop Students who occupy much of their time at Union by lett~~g things pass us by. Our pointing out the C~nc~rdy's responsibilities to the ca~pus fi~~tlfha:;ra~~~s n:r ~~~e 0 ~~~~: and who feel that 1t IS not thetr lot to attempt a change but it is cur obligation to add in the paper are guilty of more irresponsibili~y than tll:eir our opinion to the dissenting indictment carries. At least the newspaper IS .attemptmg consensus: . · · · · f '1 t liz th t · An article w1ll appear next to do a Job; the chrome cntlcs a1 o rea e a responsi- eek in the Concordy giving bility exists just as much on ~eir part to make th_e _news- fue details ?f this Student Fac- paper into what they're seekmg. Any student activity by ulty Committee .. A~y students its very nature requires co-operation from the student body or pr_ofessors w1shmg to help as a source of ideas and skills. As the situation stands, tohrgamzed, pl~gasedcontact any of . . dl 1 k' B t th d t e un ersi ne . this . co-operatiOn IS sa Y a~ mg. ·. '! apa Y nee no Sincerely, contmue to be part of the Umon traditiOn. ALAN ZIEGLER ROBERT SHAMIS RICHARD BALAGUR ''North College Hotel'' Foster's Dismissal On party weekends, many fraternity men at Union have tl::e luxury of providing their dates with free qua!ters To The Editor: in the fraternity houses. Independents, though, expenence I find most regr,etta~le . the a slightly less desirable situation since they are forced to. !lews of Mr. Fosters dismissal · · · . ~...:~ fl · · · m R. J. Thurber's letter to the find lodgmg for their dates at local hotels, motels, au..,. o:p- Editor last week. Having houses. In another area, parents, guests of students; and studi~d under Mr. Foster I feel prospective freshmen visiting Union are offered no inex- qualified to say that he is more pensive facilities overnight on campus. than a competent teach~r. Un- The college would be wise to consider the use of North less the gentlemen wh? hire an~ . . . · fire have been changmg defim· College as a guest house which would charge nommal fees tions competent teaching in· to visitors and to independent students, who could spend clud~s the following: mastery of considerably less money on such a facililty for their party a~ ac~d.~mic discipline, origin- weekend dates. ~hty m . th?ught and pr':senta- h · f · · f h 1 · t · · d' tlon, meanmgful evaluation of If ~ e size o . mcomm~ res man c asses _Is no mar I- tests and papers, organization nately mcreased, such an Idea would .be feasible frOJl]. the of lectures and above all, a will· housing point of view. And such a .proposal, now linder ingness to 'talk with the student consideration by the Union Inter-ReSident Council, would inside<~~nd outside of the class- be a 110sitive and useful initial step for the newly-formed reo.m. S~nce !VI! .. Foster does £ul- .r:; · fil these reqlllsltes, I can only council. view his dismissal as a .loss to Conte~nporary A rti~.t~ The College was fortunate last week to host an e:x:cjt- ing group of practicing artists. We are grateful to ··The' New York State Council on the Arts and,. in particular, to Franklin Kneedler's Office of External Affairs for· the ·op- portunity to meet and talk with these men. It is not often that Union students are exposed to .such a collection of talented, unusual, and stimulating in- dividuals; the occasion to discuss the arts informally with these controversial personalities was hopefully an enlight- ening and rewarding experience for members of the college community. Concordiensis hopes that, in the future, more visitors like these will be welcomed to the campus. ·uniol).. Richard E .. Marshall · · Class of 1969 ~ ·Union and , Ptllosophy To The Editor: Being one of the two Senior philosophy majors at the Col- lege, I feel it incumbent upon me to try to comment on Mr. Thurber's letter printed in your last edition. While I may not agree with everything he as- serts, I must commend him on his courage. It is unfortunately merits having his contract re~ ,., ne.wed, but rather- that the Col· CLEAR.A NC.E SALE FINAL WEEK lege desires to keep the philoso- ·: ·. ~ .. · ' . · · · - : · · ph~ 7 .department .at its present minimum strength. Ideally, the philosophy depar-tment should · be the strongest <lepartment at any liberal arts college, and this is because of the wide range of subjects upon which philoso- ,f hers have something to say. Because of its extremely limited size the department cannot of- fer all that it could to the col- lege community as a whole. There seems to me to be no reason why a IJhilosophy of · science course should not be required of all science majors; a philosophy of :history course required of all h.istory majors; a rhilosophy of the social .sci- ences course required for all social science n1.ajors; a logic and philosophy of mathematics course required of all math majors; a philosophy of mind course required «Jf all psychol- ogy majors; a philosop~Y. of. language course :required of a\1- English and Modern Language '· majors; an aesthetiGs course re- quired of all AM majors. And yet none of the above (except for logic which has been known to be one of th:e most boring c.ourses taught at Union) is of- fered by the philosophy de- partment. But how can they be when the administration re- fuses to hire a large and com- petent philosophy department? How can they be when the ad- ministration refuses to take philosophy and philosophers seriously? I would even go so far as to argue that an introduc- tory course in Philosorhy shou' d be requirEd of e' eryone at the College-for that cou~d be more comprehensively edu· ~ating than those great specula- tive ideas which our civilization has produced and which have in turn so profoundly influenced <:ur dvilizaiton? Thus, my main objection is not to the fact that Mr. Foster has not been asked to return next year, although I think that he should be so asked because he is an excellent philosopher and an extremdy worthwhile addition to oar faculty, but rather that the administration refuses to face up to the fact that a strong philosophy de- partment could be •. the greatest th:ng that has ever happened to Union College. · Maybe we J:hilosophers are living in the wrong country at the wrong , time'! Maybe we are living in a 1 society too tied up in its prac- tieal, materia} achievements to recognize the need for reflec- tion, speculation, and analysis -the philosopher's main tasks'! But I do know that in other countries, espe<!ially in Eng- land, philosoph.y and philoso- phers are held jn much more academic esteem than they seem to be here. I do know that there is a place in the world for .philosophers even if it is not the 'Union College campus. So cheer up, Mr. Foster! It shouldn't be at · all· difficult to find a job at an institution with a better philosophy department, where you can find the stimula- tion frQzyt your fellow faculty' members. whicll. every growing' phil'()sopher needs. I guess the real laugh is. 011 th€ College, not: on you; and the pity of it all is that you are probably better· ()ff for having been fired, for· y:oli are no longer tied to the 'poverty of philosophy' which; is Union College. · Faithfully yours, Laurence· Briskman '67 ~1' ' ... .. . , • .t• ' . ,; ~ ·~sPECIAL ·GROUP STUDENTS ''BOTANY'' SUDTS %- Price (Were to so:oo) _Sizes 36 ,to 40 (Regulars and Longs) SWEATERS {Alps & RC)bert Bruce) % .to 1f2 OFF Size\s Smi.-Med.-Lg. 'MYER·s ·stUDENT SHOP J31 Wall St. lCor. State) TED VINICK '43, Prop. THE· .. ;·; ·: ,._·~-:\ ;; · ~ititirr i§ Qnp DOLLAR DAYS ·: .• ..,, • . i :V2·P·R·ICE ON ~ ,,._ • I·., ': . ,•~ AL.L WINTER ,. SUITS SPORTtSCO ATS OUTERWEAR ~_\ j\SLACKS • .:r.~ :··!SWEATERS ~ . ... 1-;-··· SPORT SHIRTS l: THE ~.ql!it~ ~lfnp , .. . ) 'c '.} '' Thursday, The Wil (I/Ho 1 When into the night at find hirn heavywe Cassius mad Ali, i one who · self to sports wri a lot of fi: quite skH of World champion, ; I .:.1 ~ I

1967 ') , . Thursday, February ~' 1967 The Big Time: ~{@glii,~}'i@fi!;Wm&.tMMWii~MJ::l!liM.f.WiiWiiii:W;uJ$lH(ill! Will Ali Shuffle Ernie? How High are the Birds? When Ernie Terrell steps into the ring next Monday night at Houston, he will find himself facing a good heavyweight champion. Cassius Clay, alias Muham- mad Ali, is a tremendous boxer, one \vho has truly proven him- self to aH boxing fans and sports writers. The \Mouth\ has a lot of fist which he will p~ace quite skillfully upon the face of World Boxing Association champion, Ernie· Terrell. ALthough the tale of the tape may show the challenger to have :bigger dirr.ensions, the actual .story of the fight wiU be matter. After two rounds ·of toying and five rounds of jabbing via 'Ali-shuffle,' By AL LEVI Ernie Terrell will find. himself observing the immense ceiling of the Houston Astrodome~ Look out for the Baltimore 0doles! If you think that they were .good last year, t!).is year the season may be over in the first week. With the acquisition of Milce Epstein from their farm club, the Birds now have a man with the potential of Ba:be Ruth, Mickey Mantle, and Boog Pow- ell combined. He is considered to have enough muscle and fielding savvy that the New York Yankees (You remember them!) offered the Oriole front office both Joe Pepitone and Roger Maris for him but they found this gesture to be too lit- tle for this future great. Watch out American League, the Birds are flying high and may drop something on you! SPECIAL GROUP SALE CAR COATS Values to $120 $25 SPORT SHIRTS Values to $29 3 for $9 STRIPE SHIRTS Values to $24 3 for $15 KNIT SHIRTS 112 PRICE SWEATERS V2 PRICE Basketball, Bowling Begin :ny GARY PREVOST The winter term intramurals are going strong with bowling and basketball in motion and with handball beginning today. In intramural bowling, after two weeks of play, the Independ- ents have taken the lead in the Northern League With a 12\0 record, followed closely by Kappa Alpha and Theta Delta Chi at 8-0; _Delta Phi is in fourth place with a 5-3 record. High total recorded lD the Northern League was a 236-573 by Tam Benedict for the Inde- pendents. In the Southern League, Beta Theta Pi leads wit~ a 4-0. record while Delta Chi and Phi Epsilon Pi are dose behmd w1th 7-1. High individual total for the Southern League was a. 250-660 .for Greg E:llis of Delta Chi. Delta Chi has recorded the h1ghest triple with 703 while the Independents scored a 969 .smgle. Basketball After one . :week of basketball, Delta Chi, Chi• Psi, and B~ta Theta Pi are tied for fhe Northern lead with 2-0 records whlle five teams have won a game apiece in the Southern League. Delta Chi defeated Phi Sigma Kappa and Sigma Chi, while Chi Psi was victorious over Alpha Delta Phi and Phi Sigma Kappa. Beta Theta Pi scored wins over Phi Delta Theta and Delta Ups1lon. Handball Handball competition begins at 5:15 today and house ~aJ?tains are reminded to pick up their schedules. Handball was ongmally scheduled as an all-college individual tournament but due to increased interest it has 'been expanded and will count in the overall point standings. Referees Coach Lawrence stated that referees are needed desperately for intramural basketball. RefeFees are paid $1.25 per game ( $3;75 per night). Anyone interested should contact Coach Lawrence immediately. Peter Pause Restaurant 535 Nott Street 346-9278 FINE FOOD Reasonable Prices RELAX! PLAY BILLIARDS AT Jay Billiard Lounge 167 Jay Street SPECIAL RATES For Union Men 'For 'fhree Generations.' Those Who Know ... Have been ~\ecommending L Ga BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS • KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N.Y. 13210 EASTERN ~\VENUE PIZZERIA 860 Eastern Ave. WE DELIVER PIZZA PHONE 393-0870 HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Maurice B. Graubart & Sons 11 3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'• 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY Ml K E R 0 T H 'S OF UPPER UNION STREET Presents SOL SALVADOR AND GROUP Friday-Thursday Night 9-3 ALSO: go-go girl - CINDY Special to Union Students: No Cover or Minimum 10 PER CENT OFF ON All FOOD AND DRINK GRADUATING SENIORS majoring in • Chemistry ct Civil Engineering • Electrical Engineering o Mechanical Engineering • Liberal Arts are invited to meet with our representative on campus FEBRUARY 13, 1957 Contact your Placement Office for an appointment City of. Detroit - Civil Service Commisi911 . ' 7 Skiers Start Schedule; Swiss Student Strongest By DAVID CONANT This weekend the Union College ski team wil'l travel to the West Point meet. The Alpine events (downhill and slalom) are scheduled Saturday afternoon and Sunday morning respective~y while Nordic events (30 meter jump and 9 mile x-country) will be Saturday morning and Sunday afternoon. The Alpine coures are to ------------ be set at the Victor Constant Slope, a small area next to the Academy, and because the area is small the downhill course is more of a wax race than a chal- lenge to the racers' nerves and stamina, The slalom course, an the other hand, is likely to shake up any racers of limited experience. The trial used is narrow and shadowy, contribut· ing to formation of ice patches, and this presents the ultimate challenge of control. The nine-mile x-country course will be the biggest threat since most of the team will not have run that far until the meet. The Garnet should, however, do better than last year because of a more exten- sive training schedule which be- gan last November. Entering Finest Team This year, Union is entering its finest team since it entered intercollegiate racing four years ago. Top man on the team is, without doubt, Mark Herzog, a Swiss exchange student and for- mer racing instructor who will be skiing all four events for Union. From time trials held two week-ends ago at Willard Mt., the captain and manager have arrived at this seeding: Herzog, first in slalom and downhill, third in jumping and fourth in x-country (2nd best runner). Don Haviland ('70), a strong, aggressive skier from Seatt!e, Wash., second in slalom, i.hil'd in downhill, fourth and il.fth in jumping and x-country respectively, Dave Conant ('68), team captain, and veteran from last year's team, third in slalom, second in downhill and jump- ing. Bob Hayes ('69), team man- ager and member of last year's team shows promise in slalom and x-country and will run fourth in the Alpine events, first and third in jumping and x-country respectively. Steve Bauer ( '70), past member of the Niskayuna ski team, will be fifth in Alpine and jumping and first in x-country. This is Steve's big chance to prove himself, es- pecially in the downhill. Gustav Hamilton, a Swedish exchange student, has taken charge of the x-country team and will start second in that event. Schools in the league include Syracuse, Paul Smiths, Cornell, Cortland, Colgate, R.P.I., St. Michaels, West Point, Rochester, and Fulton~Montgomery Com- munity College, all of whom will probably attend the follow- ing meets. Scl1edufe of 'Eastern Intercollegiate Ski Meets (class B l West Point-Alpine and Nordic 4-5 feb. l''orwich-lntermediate Championships, 10- 10-12 Feb. Syracuse--~abridore, Sky Top 24-25 Feb. Paul Smiths-Big Tupper and Lake Placid 3-4 Mar. Prudential offers graduates an unusual opportunity. • ' t .ry.·~: You can help others while you help yourseiJ.- The life insurance industry's whole exist.- , ence is dependent upon, and dedicated to, helping people. Prudential can offer you the satisfaction that comes from working for a companythat is playing a major role in help- ing families maintain their independence. Depending upon your particular talent~. Prudential can offer you a rewarding career in administration,technicalservicesorsales. If you want a career helping others, here's your chance. Sign up at your Placement Office to see the Prudential man. He will be on campus February 14th, 1967. THE PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE COMPANY OF AMERICA .... ,,, an equal opportunity emp./oyer, male and femaie ' . -~~ : j:~~ :'; ;:,U· ','Jil :\il

FRATERNITY RUSHING PageS Concordy Sports Garn·et Cagers Bow to Ephmen, 84-:65; Hoopsters 'Loss Evens Record at 5-5 Union's basketball team, after a fine second half comeback, was defated by a tall Williams team, 84:-65. This left the Garnet at 5-5 for the season, while the Ephmen are now 6-2, having won six in a row, thus vaulting to twentieth nationally in small college basketball. out with almost 13 minutes to :play and scored only 2 points. l;phmen Hot from Outside Williams held its lead in the first half on the strength of their rebmmding. Wh~n Derrick and crew began to crash the b(lards, the lead quickly evaporated. Then Blond and the entire Williams team began to hit from the outside at a phenomenal clip, and downhearted Union fell apart. Union trailed most of the first half and the in- termission tally was 42-35. But led by Jim D~r­ rick they came on strong to. go ahead 52-51 w1th abo~t ten minutes 'to play. The lead see-sawed for a short while, until Williams ,ran off a string ~f 18 points, and that was the ball game. This streak was led by Irv Blond, who connected on five in a row from outside. He finished with 24 points. .Jay- Healy and Bill Unterec~ followed closely with 18 and 17 points respectively. The final score of 84-65 did not really do the game justice. This contest .showed the Garnet capable of battling a taller team for rebounds. The performance of last night might have been enough to beat any other opponent during the Derrick Leads Attack season. Next on tap for the Garnet hoopsters are home contests with Rochester and R.P.I. Coach. Evans will lead his team into battle with 6-6 R.ochester Saturday night. 'The visitors are having the same trouble as Union, winning away from home. They are 5-0 at home, hut 1-6 on the road. Derrick really \came out of his shell\ as he led the Garnet with 19 points, He was also strong on the boards and blocked numerous shots. Bill Priscott also played a good ~ame; get- ting 13 points, mostly from the outside. Also turning out good performan.ces for the Garnet were Greg Olson, Tom Urbelis, Ron Giancola, and Tad Knight. Center Fitz Turner had a rough night, getting into foul trouble early. He fouled R.P.f. Favorites The Enginee:rs, sporting a 7-4 record, should come in Wednesday night as favorites. They are currently riding the crest of a· three-game win- ning streak, consisting of victories over Stevens, Hobar-t, and Ailfred. Co-captains Kurt Hollasch and Tim Kelliher Mermen Crush Harp:ur; Face Hamilton Saturday Ry MICJIAEL KLAYMAN The Garnet scored an easy victory over the Co- lonials in Binghamton last Saturday. In the meet's eleven events, Union cap- tured nine first and seven seGond places to defeat Harpur, 0.9-25. Kicking off the first event, the fine combination of Fred Fagal, Norm Dovberg, Steve Werlin and Jim Mogal won the 400 ya~d medley relay with a time of 4:1L5. The Garnet had to settle for Harvey Richmond's second and Bob Sheil's third in the 50 yard freestyle, but this was the first time that diver Richmond had competed as a sprinter since his senior year at Mercerburg Acad- emy. Union then came baclt in the 200 yard individual medley with junior Dick Corrigan tak- ing another first, though falling short of his 2:14.6 mark in the Hobart meet by 2.5 seconds, Cassels Captures Diving Despite the difficulty in deal- ing with an unfamiliar board, co-captain Chris Cassels accum- ulated 131.95 points to win an- other diving victory, while junior Scott Muirhead pla~d second. In the 2()0 yard butterfly, sophomore Steve Werlin's time of 2:23.2 was disqualified be- cause of an illegal turn, The disqualificati()n moved John Crawford to first for the Gar- net, and gave the Colonials an extra 3 points. Senior co-captain Jim Mogal had his best time of the season for the 10() yard freestyle-an impressive 0:53.3. Dick Corrigan placed second. Rice Named To P.R. Post Fred Fagal, the only Garnet entry in the 200 yard back- stroke, gained another five points for Union, hut Harpur took only one of the two re- maining places when one of its swimmers was disqualified. Amesbury Double Winner Senior Dick Amesbury was the only double winner of the completion, capturing both the 200 and the 500 yarcl freestyle. Sophomore Tom Fly:nn took a second in both events. It was the first time this year that Ameshury beat Flynn in the 500, Norm Dovberg and Van Hub- bard were the last G-arnet win- ners of the meet with their first and second in th.e 200 yard breaststroke. :Har:rur took the last event of the da:y, the 400 yard freestyle relay. This Saturqay, the Garnet face Hamilton in Foote Pool at 1:30 P.M. Coach Benson ex- pects some tough competition from the Continentals, but re- fused to make any predictions about the outcome of the meet. Until Saturday, Uni()n's record stands at 2-L Bowling By GARY PREVOST Second-place Bernie's Mid- Hill Tavern swept four points from league-leading Top's Bar to highlight last week's action in the Dutch Classic League. Dave Gourlie scored 207-595 for the winners who are now only one point behind in the title race. Ken Merchant. added 212- 562 for Bernie's while Gary Prevost with 530 and Tom Ben- edict with 518 led the losers. lead R.P,I. both on and off the court. Hollasch, a 6-4 forward leads in scoring with 1:9.5 per game, while 6-1 backcourter Kelliher is present- ly hitting for 16,8. Frosh IJpmark to 4-2 The Union freshman team defeated Williams 71-66 last night, upping their record to 4-2. Pete Garrison had another big night, hitting for 28 points and rebounding well against the taller Williams frosh. Jim Getman chipped in with 12 poinuts. Presently the Garnet yearlings had split a pair of contests with Albany College of Pharmacy and Siena. Friday night they fell behind early by 11-4 as thei:r defense failed to move inside the ACP zone defense. At halftime Union llrailed 29· 22. Early in the second half they battled back to even the score at 37-37. Then Pharmacy held on to a slim lead for almost ten minutes. With four minutes to play the score stood at 52-50, but the visitors concerted ori 5 of 6 from the foul line to give them the edge they held to the finish. Final score: ACP 69, Union 62. Roger Harrison led the Garnet with 18s point and Jim Getman had 12. Tuesday night they bounced back to defeat Siena, 74-68. Pete Garrison was the big gun in the Garnet attack with 30 points. Also in double figures was Ed Buzak. who had not previously seen such action. He tallied 14. \A CAUSA PERSA PAROLE ASSAI'' Grapplers Pin Brooklyn Poly By JEFF KURZIUS Behind five pins, three forfeits and a decision, the Union wrestling team romped over a weak Brooklyn Poly squad,. 4:3-3. The win was the Garnet's second in two starts. The five pins were scored by Ron Ianotti at 130, Tony Judge at 152, Ret Yelton at 1:60, Ken Merz. at 177 and Brian Crandall at 191. The fastest pin was scored by Tony Judge, who pinned in the first period. Pa1,1l Boor defeated his opponent 8-0 at 145, and Frank D'Antuono, Dave Read, and Barry Cornwall were awarded forfeits to complete the scoring. Poly Star Wins The only points for Poly were scored at by their star Art Charych. Charych won f...fth straight by defeating Jeff Kurzius, 8-4. The next match for the undefeated matmen wrl be this Saturday at 2:30 against Hartford at Alumni Gymnasium. Freshmen Romp, 28-9 In a match held on T\tesday afternoon, the Union frosh defeated Hudson Valley Commu- nity College, 28-9, Pins were posted by Bill Munno at 123, Rick Ferreras at 145, Jeff Knetzer at 152, Ian Biggi at 160, and Naysim Simon at 177. The frosh will wrestle again at Rochester on February 11. Robert H. Rice, Jr. of Del- mar, an alumnus of Union C()l- lege '67, has been named to a full-time post as director of sports information in the office of public information at State University of New York at Al- bany, Moffett's Liquor Store moved within a point of third place by sweeping four points from Seal- test Bob Stankewicz led Mof- fett's with 207-531 while Charlie Sullivan and Bob Erianne fol- lowed with 528 and 516, re- spectively. Bob Ackley had 486 for the losers. Teddy K's Tavern continued its move up the .standing with a 3-1 win over Caruso's Tavern. Larry Martin scored 541 for the winners. They go to the same school, take the same course, start out in the same job -yetonebecomesawhiz in research and the other a sales manager in Buffalo. with the field sales force. Our manager of market development was a design engineer. Our president ... a person- nel man. While an undergraduate at Union, he covered sports for the public relations office. He has also worked in the spods department of the Albany Times•Uni()n. Long interested in sports coverage, Mr. Rice won the New York Yankee Junior Sports- caster contest in 1959, at the age of 15. He is a member of the National Collegiate Base- ball Writers Association and the United States Basketball Writers A,ssociation. Doug Vergith's 221-566 led Vito's Boys to a 3·1 win over Kelly's Bar. Ray Belliotti and Ken Bosquet had fine single games of 212 and 216, respec- tively for Vito's, while Paut Gerber had 504 for Kelly's. In the individual average race, which establishes the Union College Bowling Club for intercollegiate matches, Gary Prevost is leading with a 184 average. Jim Stratton is secbnd with 182, followed hy Paul Gerber 180. Larxy ~artin, 178; Ken Merchant, 176; and Bob Erilmne, 175. Wet hi nk it's wonderful. As a matter of fact, that's exactly the way things happen at Lukens. We don't try to put people in pigeon· holes. We can't. There are .no two alike. We find that good engineers often make excellent salesmen ... and that some good salesmen do even better as steel plant managers. Our director of purchases started· This flexible shifting of people, and their infinite variety of skills, has made Lukens a $1QQ.million-plus corporation ... the 4th largest steel plate producer in the nation ... the world's leading pro· ducer of specialty plate steels. If you dislike being pigeon-holed, perhaps you'd like to consider a career with u.s. You can never tell where it might lead. REPRESENTATIVE ON CAMPUS THURSDAY. FEBRUARY 23rd Coatesville, Pennsylvania An equal opportunity employer. Vol. 96 The first. building; pre involving rn~ worth ,~f do reached com opening- ,of · son Hall, Th dormito:ries Humanities ters cost $1 With the• North Colle: tory sclledu closed. Movir Elects Modern don Linton High Electi'()n o tion of a fil ganization o are three re4 ing Finger. Rece11tly bins as prE vice preside tary; an<! Ca After h.is \We are car planned act: to mor~ futt ·\4. ·-~ ·f Jusdjesta Workshtlp, VI l;>y the stlldE The fil'st pr shop was tb hearsal of t Dance Coun of the Filrr Beta l{appa Wednes<la:y, films of the shown. A class in students is Moving Fir. Hopefuly, tt for the mair students hav ( The Movil ward to th guest lectu: poet and pJ sor of liter: lege, n<>w a1 February 11 playwright j expected in Futui\e p: change of and a field 1 film produ• Ulysses_ W Moving Fin Filmma:kets zation for tl makers.

at l!60, Ken The who defeated awarded the Commu- by Bill Knetzer at chester .... ' . reaching Page 3 Vol. 96- No. 16 Founded at Union College 1877 SCHENEClADY, N.Y., THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1967 .,, M'ounie· Banks Page a PRICE 1 ·s CENTS Da·vidson Completed; Fox To Open Soon Union Cotnlllittee Seeks Vietnant Botnbing Halt The first half of the largest single building: program in Union's history, involvin.g more than 6 million dollars worth c.-f dormitories and classrooms, reached completion this week with the opening- ,of the south wing of David- son Hall, The total cost of the two new dormito:ries will be $4.5 million. The Humanities and Social Science Cen- ters cost $1.7 million. With the opening of Davidson Hall, North College, a 1:52 year-old dormi- · tory sclleduled for renovation, was closed. Moving Finger Elects Reubins Modern doncers who will perform at Linton High on February 11. Electi<ln of new officers, the crea- tion of a film woTkshop, and the or- ganization of a modern dance class are three recent activities of the Mov- ing Finger. New Officers Recently elected were Marc Reu- bins as president; Steve Radlauer, vice president; Steve Draper, Secre- tary; an<! Carl Rosenstock, treasurer. After !tis election, Reubins said, \We are carrying out our previously planned activities and look forward to m(}re future sucesses.\ -~F\I ·wo kshop .-~~ 1 rrr r Jusd~stablished was the Film Worksht)p, which has.been recogJ?.4ed l;ly the stu.dent council as an activity. The first project of the Film Work- shop was the :filming of a dress re- hearsal of the Capital Area Modern Dance Council. At the next meeting of the Film Workshop, in the Phi Beta l(appa room of the library on Wednes<lay, February 15, at 8:00, the films of tlle dress rehearsal will be shown. ~ A class in modern dance for Union students is being given (through Moving Finger) by Ruth Draper. Hopefuly, tltis class will be approved for the maintenance program. Eleven students have already signed up. Guest Lecturers The Moving Finger also looks for- ward to the appearance of several guest lecturers. Howard Nemerov, poet an.d playwright, former profes- sor of literatUie at Bennington Col- lege, n<>w at Brandeis, will speak on Februar-y 16. Denis Johnston, Irish playwright frorn Amherst College, is expected in early March. Futul:\e proposals include the ex- change o:f student produced films and a lield trip to New York to see a film production of James Joyce's Ulysses_ WhiJe in New York the Moving Finger· group will visit the Filmma.l<ers Cinema-Tech, an organi- zatio.n for the S\!.pport of young film- makers. Eeta Theta Pi and Kappa Alpha, the two fraternities to be housed in Davidson Hall, also moved in this week. The partitions between the f:r.aternity section and the independ- ents quarters hav.e not been er.ected yet, partially due to uncompleted work on the dormitories which has occasionally blocked the staircases. Davidson House, named for t~~ lat€ Union College President Carter Davidson will house 260 students in its two wings with attached fraternity units. Fox House, named for Dixon Ryan Fox, President of Union from 1934 to 1945, will house 256 students. Delta Upsilon and Phi Gamma Delta fraternities are scheduled to move into the fraternity units of Fox. Ac- cording to Dean 0. Edward Pollock, part of Fox House should be com- pleted hv February 15. Students Voice Approval Almost all the students living in the new dorms indicated their approval of the design and construction of the dorms. Particularly grateful were the residents of North College who had been living in conditions described by rnany as \slums \inhabitable or \despicable for a college of Union's reputation.\ Students in Davidson did, however, express many complaints about the details of construction and furnish- ings. One resident said, \The lounge chairs in the rooms are beautifal to look at but not to sit on.\ Other resi- dents expressed dissatisfaction with the lack of overhead lighting, table space, and night tables. Many of the students living in Davidson com• plained about inadequate space for clothes storage More Approval One feature of the new dorms that seems to have received the widest acceptance is the outlet for phones. Most rooms either have a phone or have one on order, The controversy that engulfed the campus earlier this year over the for<:ed moveback onto campus seems to be over, or at least temporarily for- gotten. Many students expressed their satisfaction on moving back on to campus. One student menti()ned how much time he was able to save by being able to consult easily with someone taking the same courses rather than being forced to find all his own mistakes or trying to under- stand some difficult concepts. Union students hove moved into Dav- idson Hall and are adjusting normally. This is the declaration of policy of an \ad hoc\ student-facUlty com- mittee being formed on the Union campus. An open organizational meet- ing wiH be held next. Wednesday, February 15, 4:30 p.m. in room 305 Baily Hall. At this time, all t!'I~se in- terested will draw up a petitiOn to be sent to Washington and discuss other possible activities of the Com- mittee_ The Committee is a result of a l~t­ ter to the editor which appeared m last week's Concordy, signed by Alan Ziegler, Bob Shamis anq Richard Bal- agur. An informal meetmg then t~ok place with ten students attendmg, and it was decided to send letters B~oard Views Chair~nan As Teacher And Leader By ALAN KLEIN \1 see myself primarily as a teacher and only incidentally as a department chairman. The job involves more re- sponsibility than it does glory.\ In this way, Prof. Joseph B. Board described his position as Chairman of the Department of Political Sci- ence. What is that responsibility which ProJ. Board associates with his posi- tion? What kind of man does the col- lege seek to carry out the responsi- bility? Why do the professors in volved become department chairmen? Lockwood Lists Responsibilities Dean Theodore D. Lockwood, Dean of the Faculty and President-elect of Trinity College listed five primary re- sponsibilities of the Department chair- men at Union College. First, Lockwood stated that the chairmaJ) is responsible for the re- cruitment of new faculty and the eval- uation of faculty already here. Lockwood then explained the pro- cedure by which faculty are recruited. \When Prof. X retires, the depart- ment chairman begins to look for a replacement_ He prepares a list of likely prospects, and goes over that list 'with the faculty of the depart- ment and the dean of the center in- volved.\ Having narrowed the list down to five or six people, the chairman writes to the top two or three prospects and invites them to come for inter- views . If the chairman and department faculty are favorably impressed by a candidate, he passes this recommen- dation on to the dean, who usually authorizes him to make an explora- tory offer to· the man_ The prospective faculty member then either accepts or rejects this ex- ploratory offer. Then the dean of the faculty sends the new faculty mem- ber a formal letter inviting him to join the Union faculty. Lockwood explained that the initial responsibility for recruiting lies with the department chairman and the fac- uay, of the department. \I can't re- member when we hired a man to whom the faculty of the department objected,\ he said. Irrational Market Board characterized the process by stating: \It's a very irrational market_ You try to contact the l~<l.ing senior professors in the field at strong grad- uate schools. The be~t thing you can possibly do is to write someone you know .• If he had a student you might be interested in, he sends you the name. \Nowadays you're competing with government and outside industry. \We look for teaching ability and research interest (which Board ex- plained meant primarily keeping up Continued on Page 2 requesting suppo~t :t~ .all facul1;y members. In the letter sent to fa<>ulty mem- bers, the Committee's one .unifying goal was expressed: \A.lthou.gb. there may be differing opinio-ns .witb.in the Committee about the V/aT, we (the committee) all agree t:hat an imme- diate, unconditional eease in the bombing (of North Vietmarn) is neces- sary for peace in Vietn~un.\ When asked about the purpose of the ·Committee, Ziegler stated, \Our petition may be ·no more effective than Yale's, or any otller, hilt it is our obligation to add o-ur .opinion to the dissenting con.sellistts: :Balagur commented \We rea.liz~ the petition, when sent to WashingttOn, will pmb- ably be ignored, but .to be silent is to give tacit agreem.ent to our pres- ent policies.\ Sham.is then added, \Each individual act o:f pFotest may have no effect, but we hope that the accumulation of ocriticism will resu:t in political pressure on the administration which \~Will influence them.\ Suppo~t Gr<JI'I'ing Leaders of the committee said that support was growing \f;aster than we had expected.\ One day after the let· ter was sent, affirmative replies were received from appro::xlrnately :fifteen faculty members, several of whom p:edged \active suppCJrt.\ Early next week, representatives from the Committee will present. their views on WRUC. In the letter appear- ing in last week's Conc~rdy, Unim~'s position in such a movenent was dis- cussed: \Perhaps Un:iom dcesn't feel that it deserves a say- in national controversies or that national issues are important. If the foormer is true, then it is self-imposed, and. if tbe lat- ter is true, then it's tilll·e we stopped letting things pass us :b~.\ faculty Support Faculty members wfuo h.ave ex- pressed support of the ~ommittee are Professors Bradbury, Fox, Robinson, Bell, Ullman, Nahal>edian. Willison, Board, Gati, and Mellsers Gi\l.eonse, Thurston, Bittleman, and Foster. Pro- fessor William B. Martin WTote a note of encouragement but Jelt that the wording was \obtuse\' a'Jld should be clarified. Janis lan Stars With Chad and Jeremy '\She is an energentic litUe bug of a girl, 4-foot-~);l,f\lV:ith olive skin and kinky brown llait pulled back from a face of gentle roundness. She is al· ways talking, strumming on a guitar, playing with the piano keys\not ner- vous-just bury. She is fifteen years old and people are already calling her a female Bob Dylan.\ The above is what the New York Post had to say about Janis Ian, who will appear Winter Weekend, along with Chad and Jeremy, While it is all true, and even significant like most journalistic bubagoo, it just doesn't tell the whole story. Janis ian is a perceptive, often poignant \Vriter, who has the talent to . com· bine her poetry with music, and sing it with a beautiful, well trained soprano voice. While those who have the job of classifying will call tltis folk-rock, .classification usually re- sults in distortion and, when accepted by the artist, limitation. We're Different Janis, herself, says, when corn• pared to Dylan, \Dylan is Dylan, Ian is ian, and we're different. Every- thing stems from a thought stream and how can we think alike?\ Janis Ian does not write the usual \met my baby at the root beer stand\ superficial tripe. Her songs deal with such significant . issues as inter-racial dating, prostitution, and Hells Angels. But even when writing about things which are almost implicitly trite, such as adult authority, she adds to it a fresh, poetic treatment_ The words \I can't see you any more,\ are perhaps the most over- worked in the history of songwriting. However one thing we forget about trite things is the truth within them that caused them to be trite in the first place. Janis Ian's use of the phrase \I can't see you any more\ in her song \Society's Child,\ which tells of the sorrow of interacial dat- ing, evokes the images of finality and utter despair that lie dormant in the same phrase appearing in other songs. She \Is\ The only definitive statements that can be said about Janis Ian is that she \is'' and she expresses what she \is.\ One can look forward to fol- low the development of her thoughts as she encounters new people and new problems. · ••society's Child\ caused quite an u..proar in .the recording industry. While it received high critical ac- claim, air play was not forthcoming because of the \bad tasteh of singing about interacial dating. It's ironic that the very values that \Society's Child\ criticized kept it off the air. In a kind of pitiful way, the censor- ship proved her point. Her new sin- gle, Janie's Blues, is a sensitive tale about an unloved child. First Album Janis will have an album released soon and has appeared af the Gas- light Cafe, and in concerts at many colleges. Bob Shelton of· the New York Times called her a \shining new singing and songwriting talent,\ Cash Box called her \one of those rare ones,\ and Richard Goldstein of the Villal!e Voice, referred to her as the \Thomas Hardy of rock and roll.\ Unlike many of the recent groups to appear here, Janis Ian requires that one \listen.\ But'this should be considered a small price to pay for what you will hear. - 'fickets are now available for the Winter Weekend Concert featuring Chad and Jeremy with sp.edal added attraction Janice Ian. Tickets, priced at $5 per couple are available from dormitory and fraternity representa- tives and from the Student Activities Office, according to John Osgood, Freshman Class President. The Con- cert is scheduled for 8:00 p.m. Febru- ary 18 in Memorial Chat'lel. Other events of the weekend will be: the Jazz Workshop \featwihg a quintet and .trio on Friday night, a track meet at 2:30 in the Field House. Saturday, a wrestling meet at the &ain.e time in the Alumni Gym, and ii basketball game at 4;0Q iJ.) the Field House. Singer Janice ian W'ill -<l[>peor in Me- modal Chopel with Chad ctnd Jeremy on February 1 8.

' 2 Department Chairn1en • Continued from Page 1 with the current work in the field in- volved). James .D. Palmer, Dean of the Cen- ter of Sc1ence and Engmeermg, who was Chauman ef the .uepartment of Electrical Engmeenng at the Umver- slty of Oklahoma bewre commg to Union, CGnceded the existence of strong non-academic competition, but stated., \In academic work we ,otfer a man a satisfaction that you don't get from money alone.\ Benefits Palmer enumerated benefits such as seemg students' progress, and the greater ease w1th which those m aca- demic life can do research in their tiel d. . Lockwood said. the second respon- sibility of the chairman Is tor the pro- grams m the department. He explain- ed, \Wtth the tacuity of the depart- ment, he works out reqmrements, course sequences, and course changes. These are later submitted to the l<'ac- ultiy Council.\ The new calendar that the college is using this year provides a good ex- ample of course revisions. l'v10st de- partments completely :revised their of- fering for this year under the leader- ship of the chairmen. Course Descriptions Locl~:wood stated, \Each department had to define its own reqmrements. The department chairmen were re- sponsible for the new course descrip- tlOns in the catalogue. The chairman had to decide which teacher was right for each course.\ He pointed out that these are continuing respon- sibilities. A department chairman must annually check the course de- scriptions to insure that they are ac- curate. Part of his second responsibility is what Lockwood calls \being the spokesman for whatever is the phil- osophy of the department,\ Prof. Leonard B. Clark Chairman of· the Department of Biological Sci- ences~,stated the philosophy of his de- P~rtnient this way: \It seems to me tfiat biology encompasses such a large number of specialties that no small department can cover all of them. The delimitation depends to a large extent on the needs of the students who eome to Union and the compet- e_nces of the faculty. This is always tmctured by the progress in the sci- en<!e itself.\ \. .'Ciark said that up until now the Union biology department had always been very strong on the laboratory life sciences, but that in the future !he deJ?artment wou~d put more stress m enVJ!Onmental bwlogy and in hu· man biology and ecology, Clark is retiring in the spring. Palmer described another ele.rnent in determining the philosophy of the department. ''If a former student comes back to you and tells you how he fared when he went to work or to graduate school, that is useful.\ Also, Palmer cited the \feedback\ the chauman receives from faculty members who spend sabbaticals at other institutions. Third Duty The third duty Lockwood outlined is the responsi:bl!ity of the cha1rman for the students who major in his de· partment. 1t is the ,charrman wh() sets up the department's advisory system, recommends, when necessary, exemp- tiOns tram. th~ course reqmrements for the maJor m the department, and makes sure that senior theses are done and major ·field exams given. . Board, who is also the pre-law ad- visor, cited another responsibility he has toward students, \A good !>it of my time is involved in writing recom- mendations.\ Finally, Lockwood mentioned two minor but necessary duties of the chairman, preparing the budget of the department and \endless admin· istrative tasks.\ All interviewed mentioned these re- sponsibilities. Palmer cited an illus- tration. Last week Dean 0. Edward Pollock sent out a questionnaire ask- ing how many faculty and staff mem· bers in each department drive to work. Each department chairman had to go around asking who drives to work. The results of the poll will be used to improve parking at the col- lege. Teaching Load Less Why do men become department chairmen? There are several reasons. Although department chairmen re- ceive no additional compensation for their services, they generally teach only 5 courses per year instead of the usual 7 required of a regular faculty member. However, Prof. Board termed this rule \theoritical\ and pointed out that in addition to his five courses, he is helping to teach two others. Most of the benefits cited by those interviewed were more abstract. Board mused, \You do it partly be- cause it's got to be done and partly •• • because you've got a conception of how a good department should be run. The problem is that, once in, you can't just wave a wand and achieve your goals. Certain Satisfaction . \I feel a certain satisfaction in be· mg part of a program that has a cer- tam dynamism to 1t.\ All those illter- VIewed by this reporter considEred the progress of the Political SciEnce Vepartment exceptionally good_ It has gone from a marginal ope11ation with two professors to a solid deJlart- ment employing five full-time 'and several part-time professors. . Board also stated 1 \I suppose '[be• mg department cha1rman] does llave t~e effect of enhancing your stan<ling ~1th . other members of your profes- sion m other schools.'' All interviewed conceded that be- ing a department chairman may slow down ones scholarly work. \Anything you do that isn't doing research :pre- vents you from doing research,\ was a very common response. However, Board spoke of a book he is writing, and other chairme11. did discuss original scholarly work. What does the college look for when it appoints a department cl!air- man? Lockwood listed three qualifica- tions. First, the Chairman should rep- resent \what you consider to be a good faculty member. Secondly. be has to be someone who has rapport with the faculty of the department or can establish it.\ Able and Willing Thirdly, Lockwood stated that a department chairman has to be able and willing to carry out the above· mentioned responsibilities. Union appoints most of its chair- men for a term of five years witll the full understanding that they sel'Ve at the Administration's discretion ~. as stated in the Faculty Manual'. In many departments, it is under~tood that no one will serve for more than five years. In other departments the appointment is reviewed every five years, and a chairman is sometimes reappointed. Most professors have no desite to be chairman. Palmer explained, ~'Not every faculty member would take on this job. In fact most of them vr~ald not have it. No doubt fortunately; not everyone wants to be chai1inan, but not enough professors want the job. Department chairmen are not of- FroshGain R,ecCenter John Osgood, President of the Class of 1970, announced Tuesday ntght at the Student Council meeting that Bronner House will soon become a. recreation center for the Fresh- man 'Class. According, to Osgood, David Laird, Director of Resid'ence Program has designated Bronner House as a cen- ter of social activity exclusive!~ for freshmen, to be used as soon as the present occupants of Bronner House move to Fox: Hall. in other council activity. the Film Workshop, which will exist as a \sub- sidiary of the !\'loving Finger;\ was granted informal recognition. Stolzberg Tabled A motion by Alan Ziegler request- ing that the Council express its ap- preciation t() Robert Stolzberg, past editor of CONCORDIENSIS, for his \sincere efforts and many hours of work\ on ,behalf of the paper was tabled and :then withdrawn. Benjamin ·yolinski, Council presi- dent, announced that the Campus Re· ligious Council will sponsor a l:itu- dentcFaculty Basketball game on Feb, 18 at 2:30 p.m. Proceeds will go to tll.e Greek Orphan Fund. ficially expected to work through the summer, but many do. One stated that if he is .trying to fill a .position in his department, he cannot possibly .stop his elforts 011. June 7. · A dilemma the C()llege often faces in filling vacant chairmanships is whether to go outside the existing department to find the chairman. Loekwood stated two possible reasons for going 'OUtside the department. Either there is no one in the existing department willing and able to be chairman ol' the chairmanship is used as .. a lever\ to give an outside pro- fessor an added incentive to join the Union faculty. Alternatives No one interviewed proposed a sub- stitution for the chairmanship system. There are alternatives both on the si~e of a ql!asi-military \head\ ap- pomted for life and on the side of a weak administrat()r with no real re- sponsibility. Such is the job that Palmer called \an adventure in cooperative persua: sion.\ · Thursday, February 9, 1967 · 0 Sup~.-ptrof'\ By JOHN C. ANES Ro?ert Ste~art Sharlet, cited in Esqu1re magazme as one of \Thirty- three super-profs,\ will join Union's Political Science Department next September. Sharlet, a native of Boston, Massa- chusetts, is currently an assist~nt pro- fessor at the University of Missouri where l_ast .se~ester, in his first year at that mstitutwn, he was voted \Pro· fessor of the Year\ by the students. At the law school of the University of Wisconsin, Sharlet is a supervisor of M.A. and Honors theses. Brandeis Grad A 1960 honor graduate of Brandeis University, Mr. Sharlet plans to com- plete his study for a Ph.D. at Indiana University this spring. At Union, according to Professor Joseph Board, Chairman of the Poli- tical Science Department, Mr.. Sharlet will instruct primarily political theory courses and perhaps a course in So- viet Government. Ford FeJJow Soviet Government is Mr. Sharlet's prime interest. He spent 1963-64 at the . LaW Faculty of Moscow Uni- versity under a Inter-University Ex- c~ange Fellowship and a Ford For· ' e1~n Area Grant. He has aiso re- ceived a Ford Fellowship a National Defense Fellowship, and several other grants. Sharlet has given several gtiest lec- !ures ?t colleges arot\nd the country mcludmg Cornell, Columbia Law School and Union. Openings are available for pho- tographers on Concordy's camera crew. Any interested students-es- pecially freshmen-can contact Pho- tographer Dick Daniel at th~ Con- cordiensis office on Sunday bight at 7:30 p.m. Honest, we really need help since our best cameraman is going to run away with one of the West College maids. Fire Laws Fire laws prohibit parkih/5 along Terrace Lane in front of the new dormitories. Students may. unload at this point when moving i!lto the new dorms, but parking will not be permitted in that area for any ex- tended period. L~t the lager freely flow. Down to louis', let us go, ZELLMER~S NORGE RITZ REST AURANf A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Food Unexcelled in This Area For reservations phone FR 4-8917 ENJOY HERSH BEVERAGES A complete line of Mixers and Flavors. Servicing Union for many-many years. Call FR 4-3304 for prompt delivery. For your convience we are open until noon. HERSH BEVERAGE CO. 309 UNION STREET 1AliNDRY AND CLEANING VII.I.AGE AT 1§59 VAN VRANKEN AVE. (at Hattie Street) DRY CLEANING WASHERS 8 lbs. ----------- $2.00 12 lb. ____ -------- .25 4 Lb. Min.-------- 1.00 20 Lb. ____ -------- .35 DRYERS 30 Lb. ____ • _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .50 10 Min.----------- .10 OPEN - 8 A.M. to 10 P.l\1, Mon. to Fri. - Sat. 8 A.M. to 5 P.M. 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. Sundays IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZED 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring HOME STYLE IT ALlAN FOODS, STEAKS. CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap Servin9 Schenectady Over 30 Years Open Daily except Mondays .GENESEE. VOIIS ETES MON GENRE · DE BIER£. .. \. the Gen,esee Moment! T).;E GENESEE BREWING CO., Hi C •• ROCs-IE'ST~R. N •. v. Ttlursday, I Mou ·~lc DeM I saw Til ing shown assuming a ·read Mr. l\J it describe1 Alchemist ' of the cveli characterisl plays te sin in the last wethe'!' t'atl ness and t he says: \l chemist we itself~over the mediun • some smaH ius survive: to provide ter.\ Most cer son dot\s st very earne: duction hm comedy-tl.l which cha1 their fetloVI dilettante ~ laughter wi is peculiar strategies ' them. It i.~ play as Jm at all it do Neverthe amateur p~ nitely lirtrl1 and it is 1 actuaily be opening sc Munn. ~ul played by the action soon with o£ scen.e. As each is forced tc into the m ing and w niving adv realization we see in t and-go ,rh) gether to l down agai corner as This awk~ the scene and Surly. put in.to t1 drained ou acting is dJ of energy Fortuna1 in the enti throughout and somev sometimes ine care aJ the play tt As we bel Subtle as, tog~ther a: work well. themselves more fluic stand 'l>Y i1 'r One oth1 count in c .Be 3: ,.,,.,, Dl~ Einj.0y Cooked Codon Opp. 01 Open [ Sundays . =+ ... 4 •••.••

9, 1967 cited in \Thirty- Union's next Massa- pro- year ed \Pro- pervisor to com- Indiana Poli- Sharlet theory in So- at Uni- sity Ex· For- re- other lee· country Law pho- camera Pho· Con· hight at since to run College along new . unload into the not be any ex- •. v .. Thursday, Feb:ru(fry -9.., 1967 Mounties Stag~ '~lchemist\; ·Rice, DeMunn Excel By lltOBER'l' TBURBElt I saw Tbe Alchemist last night, and after be- ~ng shown to my seat, removing my coat, and assuming a comfortable position I pToceeded to read Mr: Meriwether's introdudion to the play. it desc:r:1bed the ~istorical setting i:n which· The Alchemist ~as wntten, and set the general tone of the cvemng's perfoxmance by relating. certain characteristics commo.l1llY .ft'J'l:tnd im .Jonson's plays till similar con([tlions im today's w~xl.ci. it .is in the last paragr.ap'b. however, that Mr. Meri· wetheT !'ather .accuratefty ev.aluates the effective- ness and the style of Union'~ production when he says: \In the Cl!i.rrent pr.oduction >Of The AI· £hemist we have tried to iet the play spe$k ifk!>r itself~o'>·er a distance of 357 year:;; ancll t.h\rtlNgla the medmm of our ellll'n.est effort-s. We hl'!lpe that some small measure of Johuson's e.hel!trieal geJ!I- ius survives the journey ~ell !bat it js suffident to provide you with an occasion fo:r much lm:tgh- ter.\ Serio~:.~s Comedy Most certainly thf p'l.:ay iiS amatew·, hut Jan- son doe's survive; and his survival is due to the very earnestness of the cast's effo.rts. The pro- duction has retained. the seri~usne:ss of Jonson's comedy~the cruelty and the sltamelessneS£ which characterize human beings w)lo exploit t~eir fellow?-aryd has not forsak~n it for clieap, dllettante g1mm1ckery. The cast Is able to elicit laught~r without losing any of the ~ll.talliy whlch is. pecf!liar t~ each ch.aracter ·:_1nd tllll scheming strategws . which d~scribe the Jnterp1ay hetween them. It 1s a genume effort to present Jonson's play as Jonson wrote it. and if it d()es anything at all it does speak for itself. Nevertheless ~he fact r.elllaions ;that it i-s oo amateur P~'Pductian, and .its e.ff.ectii~Ye-lless -~· <4efi- nitely limited. '11he play g~s :off to ~ ;~Silow stmt and it is not until the second act that a spark actually begins to kindle. There are times in its opening . scenes when Face, .played 'by · Jeff De- Munn. ~ubtle, played by Phil R.ice; and Do'l. played by Margaret Meriwether, begm to :Ptll:i the acti_on together, but the rythn). is lo,st ;111 too soon with an entrance or an exit or a ·clumge o£ scen.e. · Pace Scowed . As each new character ~s introduced, the :Pace 1s forced to slow down until he can be assimilated ~nto the m?mentum of the play ~hich is gather- l~g .. and Wlll .eventually flend .this e:rew -of ,CQn • mvmg adventurers careening headlong inl;o 'the realization of the folly of their vanities. So what we see in the first part of The Al~hemist is fl.stop- and-go .rhythm. Face, Subtle and Pol work lto. gether to set the play rolling oll'1Y to see it slow down again and again. at each bend a11d ev.ery corner as the action moves towai.\ds its climax This awkw.ard D?Otion is almost ·catastrophic iri the scene m wh1ch we first encounter Mammon and ,Surly. Ev~;Jry bit of .energy which has been put. mto the Play uo to this point is practically dra.meq out this rather dead scene in whi~b tbe actmg IS dry and awkward, and pra:ct.icaliy devoid of energy and life. Visual ~{feet . Fortunately however this is the ~ po..o.r scene m the entire p).\oduction. Even tbomgh the acting throughout. th¢ play is at times self-conscious and somewhat clumsy, and the play's rhythm is ~ometimes choppy the eJlrnestness and the genu- me care and effort put mt() each character gives the play tbe energy and :momenhum that it needs. As we begin to approach the climax Face and Subtle as well as the rest ()f the cast finally pull together as a 1f1hole and the play starts to really work well. The characters become more alive in themselves, their relationships becQme much more fluid, and the play begins to unizy · and stand l>y itself. · ~ One other factor which must be taken into ac- count in considering the total e:xpedence of the 13~ ERif :SOI:JlEV~RD Student Role Ignored The ·(:<~st af lhe Alchemist pose _(ll_fte.r t~e;::r:?'k:ry. In tb.e second irwtallment ef this series which · appeared two w.ee'ks age in ·C~rdiep:Sis,, Pro- fessor Clare W. ~~<ves of \1Jn16fl\s :Psyeha~ Deparl:il:nent descritied the if01!1r '\\~'of learn~ in;g\ which one finds .in :Stiildoot Pf!Pl1ll!titmS. He feil:t that faculty members :s'hfiu~!!l re'fl~et t!hese .four ~y;pes of students as mueh as ·p!JSSi'ble since interaction between sueh complementary p~­ sonalities would result in a more effective, ·e:xcit· in-g and rewarding educatmnal ~erience for faculty and students. In regard to faculty strJW:t:are, P:r.ot~ssor Grav.es stated that enougn <dl:ver:sity -~ ~e pne.!'i~t [I;J.i) satisfy the different styles of teaching (lemruaded and to allow for shifts in student attitudes:. In· structors should announce their individual styles so that students can choose the ;t~.pe -of Qourse they want. This, ·Gf oou:nse, r~es h~ 'On thl,e part of faeu~ty .membm:s. Desirab.le Cow.ses Professor . Graves reels that teaehen;' ~huwcl have the ()pportunity :to 1l:ffier el:l'm:ses whieb ~ want to teach, and further, that students should he able to study under ifihe ·men they prefer. The si.1luation today, in tlhe majGrity Gf cases, \liienies this opportunity to both st.u:dents ad :1\ac.ljlt,y. A ~an · Who is allo:w.ecl to tea.eh colll:Wil-$ ~at he enjQys will he more enthu.siaStJ.e al)out' t'hem th&n an individwiil whose dep.ant~ determines his lo/;ld without considex:atiM f01' :~:u·,e£er.ence. Thus, . if a man is competent to ,W!a1J. ·with a particular' field, the college shawld no.t prohibit him from :Pl,'esenting a course whicn :Pe enjoys teaching and which he feels is valua'bie for stu· dents. U gaps exist in certain .areas, .. the ~ege produetlon is the visual effect created by the stage and the costumes. Painted on the stage which wall designed by Mr. Bittleman, is the image -of · a sun snurround.ed by the symbols of alchemy. The yellows and the blues of the stage interact weH with the array of 17th century cos· tumes to ct·eate an impressive and exciting \<isual experien~ :which .successfully adds to the total effectiveness of the ,production. Ev.en th&ng.h T.he Alohemist journeyed qver a distance of '357 years and 'has ~een submit~ed to the amateur efforts of the Umon students, the pil:ay still \~pea~ .for 1i.tsclf.,. And the x.eason for it is due to the fine staging done by the Mounte· banks under the Mr.eetll\ln 00: Mr. M~wether, and ;, •' ·-·- ---· slwnld seek men WhQ want to teach those Vel'y co.wr.ses tbat are lacking. Dichotomy Exists Since we ha:ve people who are -desidl0tts of ·]llre- se?-ting cert~n subjects to undergracl.tJ.a.tes., ~e might .erganzze O'tU' euxricalum a.neund ~se courses. Today. there certainly ,e!Xists a dicll- oto,my h.etween the courses described in tbe colaege bulletin an.d th4:l actual material priJse:nt.ced in the .dassr.@o;m.. Professor Graves stated that the role of tme stu .. d.ent figesn't lik:e him, he shoulcl not be f()rced to 'Stu4y u..nder tum. A rather clear way to aval- uate .a faou.1ty .member's p,oplila;rity wooictl ibe t~ Gbserv.e the .1u1mber ~f s.t.U:demts wh~ attemdl hu; ~es J:egul.arl~-especially if -..llimitled al,il,. sences are aHowelil. In coruidecin,g ·what kind of co:u.rses a co1le..ge ofl'.ers, .nne must not only examine .the b.asic :parts of a hberal e du.catJ.on hut a.J.s.o O>ln a pl(l;gmatic ~ote, mu.st seek .the cou:rs_es w.Wd.la ct}il.e needs f@r adwaneed stud~. Professor 'Gvaves feels that coTieges .slau4l pr.oviO.e that stud!Bnts are a.w.ane of tne minimu.m r.equir.emeE.ts for graduate stu.dy and that these re.quire:ments are available. A.. C\WI\ieulam shoullil he planned ~Y 1ihe staff in sucll. a ?'il.Y that £.1i>urs!ls .they w.ant t@ prese.t!lt ~ e11IJ,PhtlS1Zel!l and centeued .arouNd tl!.e m1n:imai grat:lu.ate scba.ol XeCkuir.(:lmenis. Traditi@nal e.dtLea- t&r~ -would ~till play a part l>y 'Supplying a p-x.e~ scr.tbed cur.rroulum fer students who are Wldiiect- tlllJi$ .spcce~ •ii in tllnl d!ile to jjke earnestnes:; .lt':nd dewtttl~ of ail illbose W:h0 paJJtieipated -in ibJJLs theiltrJ.e.al ~~cess. T:hat ll!he play w..as .~g_e~ ;lily n~t.n~J!)l'm~~nals ;gaes without .saying, . bUt j!JJU; faol: by sw means J!)recludes 1ihe iJOSs.iibilltf that amate.u.r.s are -eapahle 'ot prefcmnances beyond the lev.el <0-f .n~n~;pno.fesio;uals: Thi~ is most certainly the case w.ltfu. two ~1.1Jn.~on finest actors, namely J.efif f!.eJ.Vlillnn and Phil lbce.. They both gave out- standll\l,g perwrJP._a!Wes. The rest of the cast in- cludes .Margaret Meriwether. JtJh:a SheJl}!exd, M~.k '1\f:a:tson, .Gr~gor • Meha1fE!Y, .J'ody Sosnow;, Mike J\l(CDder.n., .fohn Gerson, Sl:slve .G1anzl'OiC!k Janet lNelarieo. Da:ve VanDe;nhurgh, Dean lleif: man, ..Tim Galligher, -Gary Fidel atid Dave Ta1iv-er. :I t CHARLES Boulevard Bow'l '!; OPT-ICIANS: :: I ( 'PLAY 1SJI.'tib\ttf)S AT J.a}' . ' .. ' . ' , I 604 Union St. 32 ,AMF BOWLI~G LANES FR 7-1283 : i: '' 'i' ! :I : •, ed toward their educational poals. Professor Graves feels that the role ·of the administration should be to insure that students obtain the necessary requirements for advanced study in the area they choose, that the staff pro- vides these courses, and that the greater part pf the curriculum is composed of courses which the staff wjshes to teach and which the students want to study. Under such an arrangement, ad- visors would clearly play a meaningful role. After Graducs.fion Dr. Graves pointed to the analogy that industry provides what the consumer wants in order to thrive.. If a college plans to ask graduates for .financial support, it should be careful to provide a worthwhile .education, that is, one which Will benefit the student as much as possible. It seems strange that colleges are filled with people who want to teach and who want to learn, yet the educative process as it stands is not realizing the possible arrangements for either position. Pr{)fessor Grav.es has offer.ed .some interesting useful ideas on a very significant topic: What type of man will excite or bore, whet or dull, educate or merely talk at undergraduates for four years. His suggestions it seems, .are pointing to serious pmblems which should concern anyone interested in education. The statements ar.e both .critica'l and constructive; but to deR;Y that the eritical ones h11ve beari:n,g on teache.rs at Union is Nnrealistic. The very essence of education is learning, and yet why is learning such an un- pleasant task for many students? lf OUl' ideas on education are ad'jj:ttdged e.ffective, why then do we ·have vast nu-mbers of bored, apathetic or hostile stud!lnts? Why do most people obtain C's or worse? W4Stm to Learn 3 Obviously, some illlidi<viduals lack the ability t0 dlil superior work consistently. But the point her.e seems to be that since most students are in college b~ause tb.ey WJl.Ut to learn for one reason or .anoth.er (rather ~n attending because of family pressures~ for wd\at reasons do they ap- pear to reject the many potentialities of academic life~ A ye~ many factors must be considered \ her.e, but .a central on.e is th.e question which Pro- fessor Gr.av..es ha,s mc.used upon, the conflict or· I. complementing of personalities. T~ .s~w that many eollege sttj.dents are not en· joy:ing th,e .fJill benefits of their educational op· wr~:; is to u.tter a gross generalization that requires serious analysis to compr.eh~nd. ~ut t9 say that many c.oHege students ,f,J.e,rive sig.nifieaE.tl.Y more from .a course taken un<l~f l)fl.e instructor than from the same course held UrtUtW a.aO;tber ·~is JilOt su.ch au lillweildly propo$itli}b, lVIo.s.t .o-:f -us eo.u1d prob.a'bly find instances ·in. .. ~~ .OWJ'.il educ.ationa1 back;gr:ounds where such slttia- ti.tmS are v.ali<L The potnt her.e is that certain; . -teaeliers appeal t.o .e.er.tain .students; the quality of an education could be enhanced for most pat• tiel'Pa:nts :if it :wer,e possible for them to study Ut.lder men .tllf;l.Y .considered as fine teachers, what- ever th~ .style may be. !Li is obvions that no such <!±tempts are being made at Union, if any- where. Primary Reason The pr.()l.ll'lems comeer.necl. wdth findin;g and re· tah)i:ng goad fac1:11tr memli>.ers are not simple ol'l.ea ;r£ howe;ve.r, w.e .agx:e.e that tbe primary reason for a ool'l~ge~s .existence is to educate .stu- dents .as !hest we can, then it ,seems incumbent ,upon >the oo;l!1ege 111\l 'Select men who can ed..ucate ~st e:fl'.ective.Iw~. :!Scb.p!aTship, interest, alertness ancl te~ Sk>ilJl seem to Jae the maj..or criteria n~~satY £.or ev~ati,ng a faculty member. The Jirst tbr&3.e ·.IJU;l11ties -cam probably be judged best 'b.y co:illea,gues in the aeltft. iBut 1Jhe :fo.unth-and - ,per!la;PS ~st .sag.llifieant f.eawe here, as far JU; stu.dents are 'oo:ncerJilat:l,. is the one which re· ~~ th.e least ,c<imslderation from the objects of th.e -tea~ pro.ces.s. In tliie .e.xtreme, ~n.e m.ust (i)-.f c.purse be cweful nat to ~e~ biaselil stu.dent li>Pinion, nor to l.'e- tain entertaining Jmt worthless lecturers, through such bias.e!ill(i)pi~ion. The ideal situation would be Ollle in \W!hi.Cib :s.t\Well!t •evaluation, presented in a mean'iflgfti1 fas-1ni~11, w<~;uld w.eigh significantly .in the consideration ·of reappointing temporary fac111M:y ®le'llib.ers ,or app,0inting men to tenured poS:itioos.. Th.e ,a:rran;genaents as they stand now .ar-e ine(}uitable .and u;nl;>efi.tJ~ng an institution where thoughtful behav'ior is emphasized. LUI(G~I'S RESTAURANT S~BClALIZI!~LG .II~J l1talian ·A-merican Food I }• • Frames and lenses Replaced '!' II .Billiarf:l Lounge t!U iQ¥ :Street ftaA\ IRA!Jit:S for IJniltn !Men ' ~ ' !';': I •125 IM!RREH ST. Schenectady Dl b-9744''\·. ~ Op~n 24 H.~lJrs Daily - SNACK BAR Ot-.1 PREMISES DIAM~NTE'S Eirrj0y Our fiine H01ne i Cooked Italian 'Food in Our · Caiidf.ontab\e Dii1r:ling Room • Opp. The Brownell Gate~ I ·I on Nett Street I ~ .i FERRO PHARMACY 57.5 N~qtt Stre.~t ~Pb.efleok.td¥, N: Y. FR 7-0510 • . . . ; i ' j \ •t; Prescriptions Filled 1' l. 'i I' ; I' 11 8 - 1 20 ;JAY :STREff ., Open Daily 10 to I A.M. ~ · r Sundays : P.M. to I A.M.1 f~--F_o_u_N_T_A_IN_._s_E.RV'•I•C·E--'l ~ •.•••••• • ••• •. •. •. • •:• .• • •.\' • •,. • • •• • .•••• • ••••. .I ;MONARCH OLAU .N01ES at 155 ·CJinf9n St . '' ~ ; ' ~ ·_ i ; •t. . ·' ! '! Visit Our Cocktail Bar EASTERN AVENUE PIZZERIA 860 Eastern Ave . WE DEUV,ER PIZZA PHONE 393-0870

4 tl'tvrsday, February 9, 1'967 sibly support a party to be held be open to the campus in the for the independent faction of tradition o~ the fraternity- par- the campus this Spring Week-: ... ~ ti:es. - .. '' end. It was decided that al- -~ A questionnaire has been dis- Letters To The Editor Despair and Cynicism To the Editor: Rathskeller. To conjecture on though the party is a good idea, tributed to all the Independ- · the dismissal is neither sig, it is not a function of the Coun- - ents living on campus, jncluding nificant nor valid. Let the cil to participate in such ac, those freshmen who chose not facts stand on their own tivities. to affiliate. · I would like to strength. Mr. Foster is a man What I propose instead is that stress that if the party is to be . who takes his teaching profes· we Qrganize a cocktail party , held, the !honey involved must · sion seriously; he is concerned before dinner for the Saturday be collected by this Friday with philosophy. Mr. Foster of Winter Weekend, and a beer night. · has .l>een. . unexJ?lainably dis' party with band for after the Andy Kahn '69 missed b~ · U:j1ion ~ CDllege. I ~co~n~c~e~rt~·;;;;;:;T~h~e~b~e~er~p~a~rt~y~w~o~u~'d~·==========B=v=o=nn=e=r=H=ou=.se Publlsb.ed Thursdays during the scnour year bY the Student Body of Union Colle~e. Schenectady, N.Y. National Advertising Representative: National A,dv<=Itising Service, lnc., Colleg~ Publishers Representative. 420 llladl· son Ave .. N. Y. C. Editorial Office, Old Gym, Union 'Col- : lege, Pul>llcatlon Office, Schenectady · Printing Company, 502 Broadway. Entered in the Schenectady Post Of- fice as Second Class l\1all Matter. Subscription 15u a copy; 18 a year delivered anywhere in tile l'nited States. I write this letter with a sense of despair and. cynicism, despair, because this letter will accomplish nothing. And ad- ministrative decision has been cemented closed; ~ynicism, be- cause few Union students hon- estly care about the philosop])y department or one Michael J. Foster. After all, how does Mr. Foster's dismissa,l affec::t per- sonally most Union ·,men? It doesn't; so who canis? Sur- prisingly enough, (see Concord- iensis article of Feb. 2, 1967, entitled \Apathy Revisited\) a number of students do~ don't !~now if'>:l-J.nio1'1. was justi- fi¢4L 111:' E;lismissT:U,g Mr. Foster, {, · butrl\> kw>w ibiS: ·#>.sing a man who «ha~$i the ~:~e, 'combination. of a s us. Sf,!holar, a trutbful , · CAMPUS CALENDAR . JO~ Jo;l'H ,\, ~lA:-::\. JH. ''GS J-\t'K l.;'l'KI:<: 'tiS. ROI~J·;HT STU!.~BI~HG '67 ... .. RH'IIAHD 'BALAGFR '69 ......... .. Jiii<:NIOR BOARD AlAN Z[!~QLER '69 ............. . MICl:IA.EL LEVlN-EPST~~IN '69 <'l.ll''Jo' ~AFc\:0:1:: 'R!I Jt:NIOR BOARD .... EU'itor·ln-·Chief .. Business :Manager ........ Editor Emeritus .................. News Editor ........ l•'eatures Editor . . ............. Sports· Editor · ~lu~i•· Bditor gentle , .land an instructor' who cares a.;out his stud.ents. . · , S.eO,tt Siegler '69 Jr-.'· ?·- f ',;·/ , .. lndep~Cient Part§es To the\Editor: So I paradoxicaHy write to defend a man who needs no de- fense. And yet, let no mistake be made, no small matter -is at Alan Klein '69 . ... Ass't News Editor stake here. The career of a Dick Daniel '70 . . . . ........... - ....... - ... ············· Photographer I, f' , t t k . At the , Union Interdon;nitory Council m~eting on Monday, it was proposed by Al Levi, on behalf of til~ Davidson Enter- tainment Committee, that the . Council helP: ¢rganize and pos- Peter Drotman '·&9 ....................................................... Loea,l Advertising 1\lana~;:ei lUe man lS a Sa e, even George Vola.nakis 'G9 .. . . ........... ..• .. .. . .. . .................. Subscription Manager ; though the \Foster controversy\ Joel Rubenzahl '&8 ....................................................... National Advertising Manager.;' iS not On every tongue in the Henl'Y Hines '6~ ......... Distribution 1\lanager Paul Gerber • 68 ......... Circulation :llanager . ............ Assol'iatf' Spot•ts Editor . ... . . AHsistunt RpOl~ts Editur :_ (·}al·~· 1 1 1'P\'nst 'f;li Al Lt•vi . 69 . PH.D. atiil. ·Perish? The controversy raised last week concerning the dis'- missal of two Union instructors refers directly to an aspect of tlle college's policy toward teachers which s¢ems to be seriously overemphasized. In educational jargon, this area is called \Ph.D. or Perish.' 1 It is no secret that Union encourages new faculty members to initiate or continue graduate studies with an eye toward the doctoral degree; in many cases this en- couragement may be advantageous to both the instructor and the institution. But when the college sets the doctorate as a require- ment for tenure, even unofficially, it is viewing the selec- tion of good faculty members in a narrow perspective. On the positive side of securing a faculty studded with Ph.D's there seem to be several points: doctoral work demands a fair background in any given field and, especial- ly, insight and concentration in a particular area; it pro- vides the individual. with vigorous experience in research and writing, and often brings him prestige and high earn- ing JlOWer. 'The institution gains too in that it obtains a man who is not only familiar with a certain field of learning but also- one who is a specialist within that field; and its pres- tige is increased by the addition of another Ph.D. to its staff roster. .ii.ic Dance: Froni St31lized . . ~~~~ .. To Mode.rn Appro(lch By STEVE DRAPE~ Since the article on th~; com- ing Dance Concert appeared two weeks ago, people have been asking: \What is Modern Dance?\ and \Why should I go?\ A look at .the history of dance and the Coocert program will answer these questions. Fad town . . . \) will be ·:aan~~d as a solo< by Ruth Drape't, J3en- nington College graduate, to a · poem by Robert Clinton, 'a· for• mer Union studenL Music is by Edward Var-ese. \Three Eiblical Pieces,\ bas· ed on stories . from the Old Testament, will have mq.sic from. :Yemenite, Israeli, and 9ltas~idic folk songs. The· Clioreographer is Mimi Brodski, d.auce teacher at the Hebrew .bcademy and Temple Israel in Albany. · Mrs. Peterson also choreo- graphed \The Big Sell (Some . Games People Play)\ a dance for seven persons with music which ·is a combination of jazz, electronic music, and commer- cials. Stylized dance began as a fad in royal courts. Th~ courte- sans of the Czar 9;£ ,;Rus. sia en- tertained his ma9'i:lS.tv,. o:P the early 1600's with fo~k\~ dancing. The courtly~ fashions were set by France; and etymologically, ballet is the French word mean- ing dance. Soon companies were set up, sponsmed by roy- alty. Dancers worked on their art to please the courts, and the form of Ballet was set in G~oup Dance the eighteenth century. By the \Songs a group dance in 1920's Ballet was a hilhgly de- five parts, is choreographed by veloped, rigid, and completely Nancy Comstock, a Bennington dead art form. The most graduate and dance instructor prominent feature of Ballet is at Skidmore College. the straight lower spine. 1\iove- Student tickets are $1.50, and Thursday, February 9:· Convocation, Judith Crist, \Every Man A Critic,\ 11:30 a.m., Memorial Chapel. , .. · Mountebank Production, \The. Alchemist,\ by Ben Jon- son, 8:30p.m., Nott lVfemorial Theatre. . .friday, February 10: \The A.lehemist,\ 8:30 p.m.,. Nott Me- morial Theatre . Saturday, February 11: \The Alchemist,\ 8:30 p.m., Nott Me- morial Theatre. Wednesday, February l!~: Fres~man Basketball; Union vs. Middlebury,. 6:15 p,m., F1eld House. Basketball· Union vs. Middlebury, 8:00 p.m., Field House. Convocati~n Flovd McKissick, National. Director of C:O.R.E:, 8:00 p.m., Memorial Chapel. Thursday, :February 16: Howard Wemeroo, Poet and Professor of Literature at Brandeis University, 8:30 p.m., Hale House Student Lounge . .Friday, February 17: Wrestling; Union vs .. Clarkson, 3:30 p.m., Gymnasium .. Film Series, \Aren't We Wonderful,\ 7:00 and 9:00 p.m., Social Sciences Building, Room 16. Jazz Workshop Concert, 7:30 p.m., Memorial Chapel. .,.. . AR'OUND ... TOWN ALBANY . Theatres: Delaware - \Blow-up\ Hellman -,\The Bible Story\ Madison - \Doctor Zhivqgo\ Palace - \Monkeys Go None\ ., SARATOGA. Cafe Lena - Scott Fagan . . College Inn-Sour hour Sunday 3:00 to 6:00 p.m. Community 'Theatre - \Monkeys Go .Home'' D'Andrea's - Sour hour Friday 4:00 to 6:00 p.m. Rip Vail. Dam - Sour hour Friday 7:00 to 9:00 p.m. SCIIENECTADY · . Th~atres: Colony - \A Funny Thing Happened on the. Way to the Forum\ Pro~tws - \Monkeys Go Home\ Scotia Art- \Alfie\ Stat~-- \Doctor Zhivago\ · Linton High School - lVIodern Dance Concert, Feb. 11, 8:30, tickets on sale at Student Activities Office, $1.50. TltOY .. Theatres: Cinema Art - \Alfie\ Proctors - \Monkeys Go Home\ Troy - \A Covenant with Death\ Rocks\ and \Marriage on the But to build a teaching faculty on the above consid- erations alone is to ignore or diminish the opportunities for obtaining fine educa.tors who do not want to pursue formal graduate programs. Furthermore, this policy assumes a dangerous and unsubstantial thesis that men who have advanced degrees will in the long run make better faculty ment is made from this vertical can be bought at Student Ac- ~~~~~~~~ ~~ti~v~R~~~s~O~ff~k~e~o~t~a:t~ili~e~d~og~~·~J~~~~~~~~~~~~~=~==========~ There is much emphasis on the 1 female, a carryover from the courts; the male dancer pro- vides background and gymnas- tic abili~y. The Rennaisance Man enjoys Ballet because of its form and order, which are L. G. BALFOUR CO. members. •· The PIPEMAN'$ SMOKE SHOP To ultimately consider only such a biased sample of men for tenured positions is an erroneous policy. Granted, the college probably is not inflexible in this area. But the real problem here is that the college is more inter- ested in obtaining men who are labeled officially as scholars -and hopefully as teachers-than it is in considering the much wider range of individuals who prefer not to com- plet€ formal requirements and who may be equally as competent or more competent than Ph.D's in a given area. both difficult to achieve. Today, Ballet choreographers (and artists who plan and di- rect dance movement) like George Balanchine of Lincoln Center b!)rrow some ideas from Modern Dance. The movement away from Ballet began in the 1920s. Martha Graham follow- ed those early pioneers and be- came famous through her de- velopment of a personal style. She bent and contracted the torso, which Ballet holds straight. No longer was the toe held straight and walked on. The primary movement of Ballet is upwards (like the hugh leaps of the Russian Nureyer), and secondly hori- zontal. Dancers can also move downwards; as a result, the ear- ly G.raham· dances were on the floor or crawling. Graham also used. more serious themes such 'IS Greek tragedy; the idea that 1Vfodern Dance is completely sensual was destroyed by Mar\ CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GifTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES -;_.Jr.'·· 262-Saratoga Road 1; ~ CAREERS IN STEEL The last assertion may be considered an extreme one, but it is no more extreme than implying that good teach- ers are made by degrees, not born. To employ the idea that academic degrees are an accurate measure of learning and teaching ability as a general rule, is to utilize a speci- out proposal. Such a program can result only in damage to the institutiop as a whole, and in par~;ular, to the student. Tranquilizer When Union inaugurated the quarter system last fall, many students and faculty were hopeful that one some- what minor: problem under the old program, final examin- ation schedul€s, would be eliminated or at least eased sig- nificantly. The problem still persists in the exam conflicts or crowded schedules which sometimes cannot be altered. These overtaxing arrangement~ often result in ··poor or less than fair performance on exams, even for well-pre- pared students. The releasing of exam schedules earlier than is custom- ary would allow for schedule juggling or advanced prep- aration that hmight stabilize performance on these ex- aminations. Since the Registrar's offiee hopefully arranged the final course enrollments by mid-term, why cannot the schedule be pupblished as' soon as possible thereafter? Cantpus Co~ntni~tee tha Graham. Movement Two weeks ago Merce Cun- ningham came to Union. This young choreographer concen- trates on movement. He told a class of students that he does not use a theme. He sees a body or arm movement on the streets, and uses it for a start- ing point. To avoid personal .references he flips a coin to de- 'cide how fast or in which di- rection he will move. Cun- ningham is a new part of the already old Modern Dance. The first full evening con- Concordiensis lauds the organizers and participants cert by the Capital Area Mod- of the ad hoc Committee to Stop the Bombing in North ern Dance Council presented Vietnam. The early replies, at least, indicate that a good at 8 : 30 P.M. Saturday, Feb. ll, number of faculty members are enthusiastic about the · ~~~~h:~ureb;ig~~~~~~~s 0 !~~: •, t· committ·ee's plans. We sincerely hope that many more hers. Write or Call fraternity Jewctc~c; 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, ;-.:.Y. 13210 MAYFAIR Sf-lOPPING CENTER At the Sign of the Red Nepn Pipe TUES. thru SAT.7 to 9 P.M. TliURS. ancl FRI.: 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA, N.Y. Phone 399-1630 Ml K E ROTH'S OF UPPER UNION STREET Presents FINE JAZZ EVERY FRIDAY and SATURDAY Special to Union Students: No Cover or Minimum 1 0 PER CENT OFF ON AlL FOOD AND DRINK DAMBROSE CLEANERS SHIRTS 22c - SUITS 98c - PANTS 49c Student Discount on All Dry Cieaning 1517 Van Vranken Avenue FR 4-5193 Serving Union For 33 Years faculty members, students and administrators will support The pr~gram is directed by such a worthwhile cause. Pat Peterson, who chOreogp~ph­ ed \Arabesque for three dane- Protests of this nature, carrying the weight of intel- ers with music by Johann Joa- lectl.lal opinion, will be meaningful whether they are mailed chim Quintz in the batoqu~ . directly to the White House or printed in the New York style. Mrs. Peterson, on leave Times. A poll-sensitive President cannot long ignore the from Emma Willard School, indignant p·rotests of_ a multitude of responsible intellect- where she teaches dance, is -di- · · .. 'S'I~VER DINER of S.chenectady ~ ... - . ERIE BOULEY ARD 6 A.M. - 11 P.M. 346-9522 ~· :. ·~~,:~:' Excellent Food an&: Informal Atmosphere I .r .I . ./'.-)_., • .- ...,< . .- \' • ·'•' 'P.,. rector of Modern Dance classes uals 1 unless several million militaristic \Fellow Americans\ at the Schenectady YWCA reach voting age before election time. We urge that all Dance Solo interested individuals attend the meeting scheduled for ''First Dance Figure\ (\G'off'S~ next week. yawn made the wind in this Our representative · will be on campus MARCH 6 ,. to interViPw undergruduati! and graduate C'andidatPs for Bethlehem's '67 Luup Course -our highly regarrf,ed management training program OPPORTUNITIES ate availabl.einsteel plant oper- ations, sales, research, min- ing, accounting, and other activities. DEGREES required are mechanica~ metallurgical, electrical, chemical, indus- trial, civil, mining, and other engineering special- ties; also chemistry, phy- sics, mathematics. business administration, accounting and liberal arts. If you wo.uld like to discuss your career interest with a Bethlehein representative, see your placement officer to arrange for an interview appointment. An Equal Opportunity Empluyer in the Plans for Pr()gl:.OO$ Program B !T·H L'EH EM STEEL VI Thursday, F Mer1 Face Union fcmrteen pc College thE tests as tt th.e Dutch1 The Hami tended thei to six, with outcome in tion, as they 5'0-1. The paced by th ances of a men who w established between the Volp won b 100 yard fi breaking tirr respect1vmy. , record in. tb Sandy Van F. last. year's freestyle chl Jumor Br1 in the 200 y leY and the str-oke, and gley won the in 11:52.7. time ·this se thon event Foote pool tutes a poo Unior 'I'he Garnc ter the first relay foursc gan, Norm I Hn and Jim the Contine the most e; afternoon. : Midgley wo: Flynn and took second . Garnet. Har. Union by S\'1 freestyle to Mohl and , t\vo events 1 gin to 23c: By B1 After a 1~ hockey has College. A < ized for stl th.e increasi in an atten competing 1 The club nesday nig p.m. at th Eighteen pl at the firs· of them h~ perience fr prep school. ing enough tramural lel Next year, ion is obtai to scrimma1 eluding Co Hamilton. Players rr tenance erE must suppl: ment. All contact AJ Flip McCar Spa 13 The Ar Squadron i the Schene< American I sor its ann the Union t l4-l5. The lege Campl give blood The drivc the Alumni to 4 :45 P.l.V aration is pective don eat large ar. immediate!~ nate. After thE been tested receive a c type and tl tion on it. the donor t nay need- donation. A keg of ed to the li it:y with the of donors. The lVLo\ is offering best drawir. bol for the ciety. All art ,. mitted on can be turn A.ctivities , H:all. The all Unions until Febrt

in the par- .. \' been dis- jncluding not like to must Friday Man Jon- Me- Me· vs. Hale p.m., p.m., the. 11, $1.50. the for Course ing S are toper- min- other rgical, indus- and phy- unting a officer for EM \' Tl'tursday, Februar.y 9, 11967 Mermen Tie Continentals; Face Y e'llowjackets Sat. By :SCOTT MUIRHEAD • U n·ion's varsity swimming tearn painstaltli!gly built a feurteen point lead. in the first ten events against Hamilton College then saw Its efforts wiped out in the fi.n~J two con- tests as the visitors from 'Clinton closed in a rush to Ue the Dutchmen 52~5Z in a meet held Saturday. The Hamilton 'Svvirnmer~ ex- Richmond, perf()rtning at his tended their unbeaten string bril\iant b~st, anq Ce-Ca:{lt~in to six, with the tie, an unusual Clut~ Cass~ls swept the d1vmg outcome in dual ne,et competi- to g1ve Um<!n a .28-24 lea~ that ti()n, as they ran th.etr record to V(aS not relinqUished untll the 5'0-L The Continentals were :f.mal 'event. paced b~ the ~rilliant }lerform- So}lhomore Steve Weflin won ances of a triO of underclass- the. 200 Y:ard butt~r:fly m 2:24:3 men who won five events and whtle his class111ates, Ke~m established three Jll><>l •records !foben an!l B()l:J B~randes fin· between them. Freshman Bill 1shed behmd Volp m. :both the Volp won both the 50 and the 5~ and the 100 freestyle .. Cor- ' 100 yard freestyles in record ngan and Fred Fagal placed breaking times of 22~6 and 50.5, 1-2 in. the. 200. yard backstroke respectively. The former pool to put Umon m front by 45·34. record in the fifty belonged to Wins Rematch Sandy Van Kennen oe ~esleyan, J11nior Dick Amesbury won a last year's NC~A .national 50 relllatch against Midgley o:ver freestyle champ10n. . . Ep~ yards as he .put on a strong Jumor Bruce l\_![o~J: yron tw1ce, ftntsh to edge the fast cl:osing in the 200 yard tndtvldual med· freshman to build Union's lead lt;Y and the 200 yard. brea.st· to :51-3'1. Howev€r, Hamilton's stroke, and freshman J1m Mtd· Mohl and Steve Linder swept gley won the 1000 yard. freest_yle the double century breaststroke in 11:52.7. It 'vas the fust and Hamilton's fr.eestyle relqy time ·this season th.at the mar.a· clo~ked a fast 3:3(:).8 to give thon event has been swum I!! fhetr team 15 of the last 16 Foote pool and h:ence consb- prunts of the meet and a tie\ tutes a pool record. Coach Robert Benson was Union T akei iLeacl disappointed with the fiha.l re• 'The Garnet took ,the lead af· salt, hut was nlea.sec:l by the ter the first event as a medley performance of s<Jveral individ~ relay foursome of DiCk Corri· uals .. F_red Fagal wa~ prai.sed gan, Norm Dovberg,, Steve Wer· ~or p1ckmg up 4 crucial pomts Hn and Jim Mogal •touched o~t !n. t~o close r~ces. Tom Flynn's the Continentals in 4:09.0, m Initial effort m the 1000 yard the most exciting race of the freestyle was commendable as afternoon. FolloVIing the relay, was Amesbury's comeback ef- Midgley won th~ :10()0 as Tom fort i~ the 500 freestyle.. Har- Flynn and Dick. . A.mesbury vey R1chmond drew prruse for took second and t:hird for the his exceptional execution of the Garnet. Hamilton then stunned one meter board which earned Union by sweeping the 200-yard hi.In a score of 201.6, his first freestyle to grab a 13-1:2 lead. 2{)0 ~lus effort. Mohl and Volp won the next Umon travels to Rochester , two events to increase the mar- SattUday in what promises t() gin to 23c20. Then Harve::y be another even match-up. Hockey Club- Forms A.gai11 By BARRY :FORET After a lapse of twenty years hockey has retul'ned to Union College. A c~ub has been organ· ized for students i11terested in the increasingly pcpular sport, in an attempt to bring back a competing team to the college. The club meets every Wed· 'I nesday night froxn 9:00-11:00 p.m. at the Niskayuna Club; Eighteen players -were present at the first gathering, fiftee11 of them having bad some ex· perience from high school or prep school. This year, provid· ing enough players join, an in· tramural league \'ill be formed. Next year, if facult:y supervis· ion is obtained, tlu club hopes t() scrimmage othel' schools, in· eluding Colgate, Trinity, and Hamilton. Players may now obtain main- tenance credit for }l()Ckey but must supply tlleir own equip· ment. All entl:t11siasts maJ' contact Andrew Maslow or Flip McCarthy at 34,6-9330. Spare Some Blood'? The Arnold Air Society Squadroh. in cooperation with the SchEmectady Chapter of the American Red Cross will spon- sor its annual blood drive on the Union campU!; !m February 14-15. The entire 1Jnion Col· lege Campus will •J>e asked to give blood on .those days. The drive will take place in the Alumni Gym from 11 A.M. to 4:45 P.M. No special prep· aration is necesSill'Y, but pros· pective donors oo:e asked not to eat large amounts <>f fatty foods immediately before they d<J· nate. After the donor's blood has been tested andjt~.ped, he will receive a card frith. his blood type and the date ()f his dona- tion on it. The card entitles the donor to free bluod~all he may need-for a year after his donation. A. keg of beer v<Jil1 b.e award- ed to the living u1:4it I)T frateril.· ity with the highe$t percentage of donors. The Moving Finger Society is offering a $10 prize for the best drawing of a logo or sym· bol for the Moving Finger Sc· ciety. All art work should be sub- mitted on unlined papel', and can be turned in at the Student Activities office in Old Gy:m Hall. The contest is open to all Union students and Will run until February 28. THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats froJll all over the wtuld. 406 STATE ST. DOM TORIELLO (B.S.Met.E.) of the Bethlehem Steel Loop Course knows where the action is. He's on the move at the nation's largest. steel plant,-ou.r Sparrows Point Plant near Baltimore, Md. Join the action. First step: pick up a copy of \Careers vvith Bethlehem Steel and the Loop Course\ at your placement office. Then sign up · for a campus interview. Olil' 1967 Loop Class bas openings for technical · and non-technical graduates (and past-grads} for · careers in steel operationS, research, sales; nrining, accounting, and other activities. An Equal Opportunity Employer in the Plans for Progress Program BETHlEHEM s·rE E L 'sETH £HEM ST El 5 Crist Calls Every M_an A Critic r- Idol Elections Judith Crist, well-known film She criticizes film-viewers for awards in the last 15 years, in- Applications for the positions critic of the World Journal Tri· their constant support of ••a· duding the 1950 George Polk of Editor and Business Manager bune, ~poke at ·Convoc&tion in small g~laxy of stl:}rs vvho are award for year-round coverage 1\iemortal Chapel, at U:30 .a.m., cas~ ag~m and ~gam,'~ and for of developments in education, ·Of the Idol can be obtained by on February 9th~ 'The top1c of therr misconceptions about qual· the 1955 \best local reporting\ any interested students from Mrs. Crist's lecture was \Every ity of the current crop of for- }lrize of the New York News- Man a Critic.\ eign art mms. JJaper Women's •Club and the Mrs. Marra at the Student Ac- Mrs. Crist has a reputation In addition to her .reviews in 1955. \best domestic news\ re- tivities office. The deadline for honest, hard-hitting .revie\vs. th~ Worl.d Journal Tr~bune, Mrs, }lortmg Page One Award of the She has criticized both the film Crt.st wntes weekl~ m the T'V .Newspaper Guild. for applications is February 27. ma:king industry and the Ameri· Gmd.e and rnonthl~ m the Ladtes ~--------------------------•. can public for their respective Home Journal. She has served ; i refusals to produce and recog- as .film and drama cop:unentator nibe high quality films on the .Today Show smce 1963. · · She 1s also a lecturer .at tb.e \The (ilm companies,\ she Columbia School of Journalism, say~, \think they are catering to and has been a working mern, .a twelve-year-old mentality. I ber of the faculty sine~ 195g, happen to think the American Mrs. Crist has received nearly people are as srnar.t as 1 .am.\ a dozen major j o u r n a 1 i s m BO'OK SALE \For three Generations.' Those Who Know .. Have been recommending HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER 'Scha.ffe:r library TUESDA.Y, FEBRUARY 14, 1 P.M. i ;· ~Iaurice B. Grau,bart & Sons ; ~ 25¢ PER VOL. Sales Subject to N.Y.S. Sales Tax ENG GRA ... 3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family,. 166 JAY ST. FO'R HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY Continued expa11sion of · our military· and commercial business provides opemings for virtually llVery technical talent. As you contemplate one of the most important decisions of your life, we suggest you consider career oppor· tunities at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft. Like most everyone else, we offer all of the usual \fringe\ benefits, .in· eluding our Corporation-financed Graduate Education Program. But, far more important to you and your fu· ture, is the wide-open opportunity for professional growth with a company that enjoys an enviable record of stability in the dynamic atmosphere of aerospace technology. And make no mistake about it ..• you'll get a solid feeling of satisfaction from your contribution to our nation's economic growth and to its national defense as well. Your degree can be a B.S., M.S. or Ph.D. in: MECI:IAN· ICAL, AERONAUTICAL, CHEMICAL, CIVIL (stru~1ures orieilted); El.E:CTRIC.~L. MARINE, and METALLURGI· CAL ENGINEEIUNG· o ENGINEERING MECHANICS, APPLIED MATHEMATICS, CERAM.ICS, PHYSICS and ENGINEERING .PHYSICS. For ·further information concerning a career with 'Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, consult your college placement officer-or write Mr. William L. Stoner, Engineering. Department. Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hanford, Connecticut 06108. Take a look at the above chart; then a good long look at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft-where technical careers offer exciting growth, continuing challenge, and lasting sta- bility-where engineers and scientists are recognized as the major reason for the Company's continued success. SPECIALISTS IN POWER • • • POWER FOR PROPULSION- POWER FOR AUXILIARY SYSTEMS. CURRENT UTILIZATIONS INCLUDE Ml LITARY AND COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT, MISSILES, SPACE VEHICLES, MARINE AND INDI.JSTR!AL APPLICATIONS. Pratt & Whitn.ey ~ircraft u DIVISION OF UNITED RRAFT CORP. CONNECTICUT OPERATIONS EASTHARffO~J>. CONNECTICUT An Equal Opportunity Employer

4 Thursday, February 9, 1967 Thursday, Fe srbly support a party to be held be open to the campus in the for the independent faction of tradition of the fraternity par- . the campus this Spring Week-: ·' ties. · • · end. It was decided that a!- A questionnaire has been dis- Letters To The Editor 'Merll Face Qlournr Published 'l'huraduys during the scnuu. year bY tho Student Body of Union Colle~e. Schenectady, ;-::, Y. :-.=at!onal Advertising ReprE:\sPntati\\l•: !\:atioual AdV<;rtlslng Service, Im., Colleg~ Publishers Repr(•SL•ntativt•, 4~0 ~la1li· son Av.,., N. Y. C. !·~dltorlal Office, Old Gym, Cnion Col- lege, Publication Office, Schenectady Printing Company, 502 Bl 1 oadwny. <J~ntered in the Schenectady Post Of· l'H:e as SeeunU Clrrss .Muil l\la·ttet·. SubsL·ription 15e a eoJIY: $8 a year Jt>livered anywh{'rr> i·n the l'nite<.l ~tat-t-:>. lli':NIOR BOARll .Hl~EPH .\. :'If.\~:--: .. Ht. ·,;\' .J.\t'l( E'l'IU:'> ·o.x HUBI·:HT :4'1'U!.Z!IE!t\1 . •l~ Hlt'll.\IU> H.\L.\tll'H 'Ill! ALA:-.: 7.IEt}LEH 'ti~l :lllt'II.\KL LE\'1:'>-E!'!4'l'EI:--: 'ell t'·I,IFI•, ~.\F.\~1<: \li~l Alan K.h•in '6~1 Dil..•k Panh•l 'j'o Peter Drotman '61) Georg\ Volanakis '69 J!t:XIOR BOARD Joel Rubenznh! '6B ........................... . Ht•nrr ltiw·H 'li'l . J•;dittH·in-t \hiL•f }~UfllnPSH )lanagt>·I Etlitor Enwritu~ ... :\PWS Editot 1-'l•atUt't>S l~tlitt)[ ~ports Et.litur l\Jusi1· Etlitor Despair and Cynicism To the Editor: I write this letter with a sense of despair and cynicism, despair, because this letter will accomplish nothing, And ad- ministrative decision has been cemented closed; cynicism, be- cause few Union sttldents hon- estly care about the philosophy departlllent or one Michael J .. Foster. After all, how does Mr. Foster's dismissal affect per· sona!.ly most Union men? It does11't; so who cares? Sur- prisingly enough, (see Concord· iensis article of Feb. 2, 1967, entitl'ed \Apathy Revisited\} a number of students do . So l paradoxically write .to defend a man who needs no de- fense. And yet, let rro mistake be made. no small matter is at stake here. The career of a fine man is at stake, even though the \Foster controversy\ is not on every tongue in the Rathskeller. To conjecture on tho~:~gh the party is a good idea, tribated to aH the Independ- the dismissal is neither sig- it is not a function of the Coun- ents living on campus, including nificant nor va:lid. Let the cil to participate in such ac- those freshmen who chose not facts stand on their OWll tivities. to affi:liate. I would like to strength. lVlr. Foster is a mall' What I propose instead is that stress that if the party is to be Union'~ who takes his teaching profes- we organize a cocktail party· held, the money involved must 1 fourteen po sion seriously.·, he is concerne--1. before dinner for the Saturday be collected by this Friday ll th \' f w· t w k d d b 1'ght Co ege · e1 with phtlosophy, Mr. Foster o m er ee en ' a:n a . eer n. . I b 1 . bl ...1' party with baRd for after the Andy Kahn '69 I tests as n.( las · een 'UlleXJ?.a.Ina Y \' 1 s- concert. The beer party wou'd BronnerHou.se ' the Dutchrr missed by Union C.oHege. I ~~~=~~~~~~~~~=============• don't know i:f· Union was justi- The Hamil fieQ;~ h1 <;l.~smiss4t_1S Mr. Foster, teBded thek but:'!; knpw it i~ lpsing a man to six, with t whe ··has:: the r<JFe combination • outcome in c of a senous sc1mlar, a truthfal tion, as they gentlelrl'~ia:. ;and an instructor 5-G-1. The who cares ab-o\.lt nis students. Thursday, February 9:· Convocation, Judith Crist, \Every Man paced by the S,ctitt Siegler '()9 A Critic,\ 11:30 a.m., Memorial Chapel. . ances of a 1 ·I ndepe.ndent Part§es To the Editor: At the Union Interdormitor:y Council meeting on Monday, it was prop(>sed: by Al Levi, on behalf of the Davidson Enter- tainment Committee, that the Council help organize and pose Mountebank Production, \The Alchemist,\ by Ben Jon- men who wo son, 3:30 p.m., Nott Memoria-l Theatre. established t Friday, February 10: \The Alehemist,\ 8:30 p.m., Nott Me· between ther morial Theatre. Volp won bo Saturday, Fe~ruary 11: \The Alchemist.'' 8:30 p.m., Nott Me- 100 yard fn monal Theatre. . breaking tim« Wednesday, February 15: Fres~man Basketball; Umon vs. _ 1 , respectlvety . Middlebury, 6:15 p.m., Field House. . h Basketball· Union vs. Middlebury, 8:06 p.m., Field House. · 4rSeacnodrydVi·~ntK~ Convocation Flovd McKissick, National Director of C.O.R.E:, 8:00 p.m., Memorial Chapel. last year's r Thursday, February 16: Howard :Wem~roo,_Poet and Professor freestyle cha Paul Gt•J~ht•l' 'liS ti:11·;-.· Ptt'\'n:4t' 't:'• .\ 1 lP\.1 ' ti ~I PH.D. . \s:-;'t ~t'\\':3 Editor l'hotm.aa.t>be-r LoC'al Ad\'P.l\llsing ::\lanag-l\l ~u h::-;e r!pt !on ~la·nagPl ......... National Advertising ~Ianager, l'>i3tl'i lmtion l\lanag~r l' i tTU I at ion :vtanagl\t .\sHndatt• 81mrt~ Editor .\s:-;i:-;tant ~lHirtH l·~tlilut and Perish? Dance: Frotn Stl'lized To Modern App~oach of Literature at Brandeis Umvers1ty, 8:30 p.m., Hale Jumor Bru.' House Student Lounge. .f in the 200 ya Friday, Februar~ 17: Wrestling; Union vs. Clarkson, 3:30 p.m., ley and the GymnasiUm. stroke, and f Film Series, \Aren't We Wonderful,\ 7:00 and 9:011 p.m., gley won the Social Sciences Building, Room 16. ' ~in 11:52. 'Z. Jazz Workshop Concert, 7:30 p.m., Memorial Chapel. time this sea thon event l Foote pool tutes a pool The controversy raise-d last week concerning the dis- missal of two Union instructors refers directly to an aspect of the college's policy toward teach~rs w~ich s~m~ to be seriously overemphasized. In educational Jargon, th1s area is called \Ph.D. or Perish.\ It is no secret that Union encourages new faculty members to initiate or continue graduate studies with an eye toward the doctoral degree; in many case~ this en- couragement may be advantageous to both the mstructor and the institution. But when the college sets the doctorate as a require- ment for tenure, even N.nofficially, it is viewing the selec- tion of good faculty members in a narrow :perspective. On the positive side of securing a faculty studded with Ph.D's there seem to be several points: doctoral work demands a fair background in any given field and, especial- ly, insight and concentration in a particular area; it pro- vides the individual with vigorous experience in research and writing, and oHen brings him prestige and high earn- ing power. The institution gains too in that it obtains a man who is not only familiar with a certain field of learning but also one who is a specialist within that field; and its pres- tige is increased by the addition of another Ph.D. to its staff roster. But to build a teaching faculty on the above consid- erations alone is to ignore or diminish the opportunities for obtaining fine educators who do not want to pursue formal graduate programs. Furthermore, this policy assumes a dangerous and unsubstantial thesis that rnen who have advanced degrees will in the long run make better faculty members. To ultimately consider only such a biased sample of men for tenured positions is an erroneous policy. Granted, the college probably is not inflexible in this area. But the real problem here is that the college is more inter- ested in obtaining men who are labeled officially as scholars -and hopefully as teachers-than it is in considering the much wider range of individuals who prefer not to com- plete formal requirements and who may be equally as competent or more competent than Ph.D's in a given area. The last assertion may be considered an extreme one, but it is no more extreme than implying that good teach- ers are made by degrees, not born. To employ the idea that academic degrees are an accurate measure of learning and teaching ability as a general rule, is to utilize a speci- out proposal. Such a program can result only in damage to the institutiop as a whole, and in particular, to the student. Tranquilizer When Union inaugurated the quarter system last fall, many students and faculty were hopeful that one some- what minor problem under the old program, final examin- ation schedules, would be eliminated or at least eased sig- nificantly. The problem still persists in the exam conflicts or crowded schedules which sometimes cannot be altered. These overtaxing arrangements often result in poor or less than fair performance on exams, even for well-pre- pared students. · · The releasing of exam schedules earlier than is custom- ary would allow for schedule juggling or advanced prep- aration that hmight stabilize performance on these ex- aminations. Since the Registrar's offiee hopefully arranged the final course enrollments by mid-term, why cannot the schedule be pupblished as, soon as possible thereafter? B:y STEVE DRAPER Since the article on the com- ing Dance Concert appeared two weel<s ago, people have been asking: \What is Modern Dance?\ and \Why should I go?\ A look at , the history of dance and the Concert program will answer these questions. Fad Stylized dance began as a fad in royal courts. The courte· sans of the Czar ffi .Russia en· tertained his ma~e~t~ o~ the early 1600's with fo1k~ dancing. The courtly· fashions were set by France; and etymologically, ballet is the French word mean- ing dance. Socrn companies were set up, sponsored by roy. alty. Dancers worked on their art to please the courts, and the form of Ballet was set in the eighteenth century. By the 1920's Ballet was a hilhgly de- veloped, rigid, and completely dead art form. The most prominent feature of Ballet is the straight lower spine. Move- ment is made from this vertical base outwards and upwards. There is much emphasis on the female, a carryover from the courts; the male dancer pro· vides background and gymnas· tic abili~y. The Rennaisance Man enjoys Ballet because of its form and order, which are both difficult to achieve. Today, Ballet choreographers (and artists who plan and di- rect dance movement) like George :Balanchine of Lincoln Center borrow some ideas from Modern Dance. The movement away from Ballet began in the 1920s. Martha Graham follow· ed those early pioneers and be· came famous through her de· velopment of a personal style. She bent and contracted the torso, which Ballet holds straight. No longer was the toe held straight and walked on. The primary movement of Ballet is upwards (like the hugh leaps of the Russian Nureyer), and secondly hori· zontal. Dancers can also move downwards; as a result, the ear- ly Graham dances were on the floor or crawling. Graham also used. more serious themes such 1s Greek tragedy; the idea that Modern Dance is completely sensual \Vas destroyed by Mar- tha Graham. Movement Two weeks ago Merce Cun· ningham came to Union. This young choreographer concen· trates on movement. He told a class of students that he does not use a theme. He sees a body or arm movement on the streets, and uses it for a start- ing point. To avoid personal references he flips a coin to de· cide how fast or in which di· rection he will move. Cun· ningham is a new part of the already old Modern Dance. Cantpus Contntittee The first full evening con- Concordiensis lauds the organizers and participants cert by the Capital Area Mod- h C 't t St th B b\ · N rth ern Dance Council presented of the ad oc omrm tee o 0 P e om mg m 0 at 8:30 P.M. Saturday, Feb. 11, Vietnam. The early replies, at least, indicate that a good will feature eight dances chore· number of faculty members are enthusiastic about the ographed by company mem- committee's plans. We sincerely hope that many more bers. faculty members, students and administrators will support The program is directed by such a worthwhile cause. Pat Peterson, who chOreograph· ed \Arabesque for three dane· Protests of this nature, carrying the weight of intel- ers with music by Johann Joa· lectual opinion, will be meaningful whether they are mailed chim Quintz in the baroqu.~ directly to the White House or printed in the New York style. Mrs. Peterson, on leave Times. A poll-sensitive President cannot long ignore the from Emma Willard School, 1 · d f \bl · t 11 where she teaches dance, is di· indignant protests of a mu tltu e o respons1 e m e ect- rector of Modern Dance classes uals, unless several million militaristic \Fellow Americans\ at the Schenectady YWCA. reach voting age before election time .. We urge that all Dance Solo interested individuals attend the meetmg scheduled for \First Dance Figure\ (\G'o<r's- next week. yawn made the wind in this town .. .' \l win be ·aanc.ed a.s a solo' by Ruth Draper, Ben- nington College graduate, to a poem by Robert Clinton,· a for· mer Union studenL Music is by Edward Varese. \Three Bib1ical Pieces,\ bas- ed on stories from the Old Testament, will · have music from :Yemenite, Israeli, imd CPtassidic folk songs. The clioreographer is Mimi Brodski, dance teacher at the Hebrevv 1\cademy and Temple Israel ill Albany. Mrs. Peterson also choreo- graphed \The Big Sell (Some Games People Play)\ a dance for seven persons with music whiCh is a combination of jazz, electronic music, and commer- cials. Gnoup Dance \Songs a group dance in five parts, is choreographed by Nancy Comstock, a Bennington graduate and dance instruct()r at Skidmore College. Student tickets are $1.50, and can be bought at Student Ac- tivities Office or at the door, t. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES • RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or Call fraternity Jeweler' 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, XY. 13210 ~, •. · ~- AROUND ,,TOWN - .·. ALBANY Theatres: Delaware - \Blow-up\ Hellman -.\The Bible Story\ Madison - \Doctor Zhivago\ Palace - \Monkeys Go Home\ SARATOGA '· Cafe Lena - Scott Fagan . College Inn-Sour hour Sunday 3:00 to 6:00 p.m. Community Theatre - \Monkeys Go Home\ D'Andrea's- Sour hour Friday 4:00 to 6:00p.m. Rip Van Dam - Sour hour Friday 7:00 to 9:00 p.m. SCIIENECTADY , Theatres: Colony - \A Funny Thmg Happened on the Way to the Forum\ Proct.o~s - \Monkeys Go Horne\ Scotia Art - \Alfie\ State - \Doctor Zhivago\ Linton High School - Modern Dance, 9<?ncert, Feb. 11, 8:30, tickets on sale at Student ActiVIties Office, $1.50. TROY \ Theatre.s: Cinema Art - \Alfie\ Proctors - \Monkeys Go Home\ Troy - \A Covenant with Death\ Rocks\ and \Marriage on the The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE SHOP \!· ~· f 262-Saratoga Road .,.: 1t,'.l MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER CAREERS IN STEEL At the Sign of the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru SAT.7 to 9 P.M. THURS. an(il fRI.: 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA, N.Y. Phone 399-1630 Ml K E R 0 T H 'S Our representative will be on campus OF UPPER UNION STREET Presents FINE JAZZ EVERY FRIDAY and SATURDAY Special to Union Stud~nts: No Cover or Minimum 10 PER CENT OFF ON ALL FOOD AND DRINK DAMBROSE CLEANERS SHIRTS 22c - SUITS 98c - PANTS 49c Student Discount on All Dry Cleaning 1517 Van Vranken Aven~e FR 4-5193 Serving Uni(,n For 33 Years ·sllVER DINER of Sche·nectady ERIE B()ULEVARD 6 A.M. - 11 P.M. <!\ ;, •• ~~ 346-9522 Excellent Food and 'Informal Atmosphere ' ..... \.-'. MARCH 6 to intPrVii'U' undergruduo(;(' and graducrte rundidatN; for Bethlehem's '67 J,oop Course -our highly regarded manar,ement truining program OPPORTUNITIES are available in steel plant oper- ations, sales, research, min- ing, accounting, and other activities. DEGREES required are mechanical metallurgical, electrir~al, c-hemical, indus- trial, civil, mining, and other engineering special- ties; also chemistry, phy- sics, mathematics. business administration, acc.:ounting and liberal arts. If you wo.uld like to discuss your career interest with a Bethlehem representative, see your placement officer to arrange for an illterview appointment. An Equal Oppm·t nnity Emplo-yer tn the Pluns for P rogr.ess Program BETHLEHEM STEEL Union The Game· ter the first relay fours01 gan, Norn: D lin and J1m the Continer the most ex · afternoon. F Midgley won Flynn and took second Garnet. Ham Union by sw~ freestyle to Mohl and V two events t< gin to 23-21 By BA After ala] hockey has College. A c: ized for stw the increasi! in an attem] competing t{ The club nesday nigh p.m. at the Eighteen pb at the first of them ha, perience fro prep school. ing enough · tramural lea1 Next year, i ion is obtain to scrimmag< eluding Col. Hamilton. Players m~ tenance ere< must supply ment. All contact An Flip McCart] Spa a B The Arn Squadron iJ1 the Schenect American R• sor its anm the Union C< 14·15. 'The lege Campu: give blood c The drive the Alumni to 4:45 P.M. aration is n pective dono eat large am immediately nate. After the been tested receive a Cl type and th< tion on it. the donor tc may need-J donation. A keg of· ed to the lh ity with the of donors. LC The Movi is offering l best drawin1 bol for the ciety. All art w mitted on 1 can be turne Activities o Hall. The all Union st1 until Febru:

in the par- dis- not like to is to be ed must Friday Jon- Me· Me- vs. Hale p.m., p.m., the b. 11, n the s for ng are oper- , min- other are , and phy- a aLive, ity for Thursday 1 February 9 1 1967 5 Mermen Tie Continentals; Face Yellowj,a;ckets Sat. Crist Calls Every M_an A Critic r- Idol Elections Judith Crist, well-known film She criticizes film-viewers for awards in the last 15 years, in- Applications for the positions critic of the World Journal Tri- their constant support of \a eluding the 1950 George Polk of Editor and Business JV[anager bune, spoke at Convocation in small galaxy of stars who are award for year-round coverage By SCOTT MUUtlfEAD Memorial Chapel, at 11:30 a.m., cast again and again,\ and for of developments in education of the rdol can be obtained by lJ . , 't . . . on February 9th. The topic of ;;heir misconceptions abeut qual- the 1955 \best local reporting'! anv interested students from 1 r mons vars1 Y sw1mmmg team painstakingly built a Mrs. Crist's lecture was \Every ity of the current crop of for· prize of the New York News- \ fou·rteen point lead in the first ten events against Hamilton Man a Critic.\ eign art fHms. paper Women's Club and the 1\irs. Marra at the Student Ac- ColleE:e then saw its efforts wined out in the fin<> I two con- .,.. c · t h t\ In addition to her reviews in 1955 \best domestic 'news\ re- · · · ff' ~ .t\\ .,.. ., ... rs. ris as a reputa wn the World Journal Tribune, Mrs. porting Page One Award of the tlvltres o Ice. The deadline tests as tl:.e visito['S from Clin.i0n closed in a rush to tie for honest, hard-hitting reviews. Crist writes weekly in the TV Newspaper Guild. for applications is February 27. the Dutchmen 52-52 in a meet held Saturday. She has criticized both the fHm- Guide and monthly in the Ladies ~;;;;.;:,;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;,....;;;;;;;;;;;;OiOiiiiio;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;oo;;;;a;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;... The Hamilton swimmen ex- Ri<:hmond, performing at his making industry and the Ameri- Home Journal. She has served 1 il b ·n· t b t r~ c c · can public for their respective teNded their unbeaten string · n .raB. · · ~s , an\' o- a.J?t~un refusals to produce and recog- as film and drama commentator to six, with the tie, an unusual Cb.n;> Cass~ls swept the d1vmg nibe high quality films. on the Today Show since 1963. outcome in dual meet competi- to give Um~n a .28-24 lea~ that She is also a lecturer at the tion, as they ran their record to ':'as not relmqmshed until the ''The film companies,\ she Columbia Schoel of JournaUsm, 5-fl-1. The Continentals were fmal event. . says, \think they are catering to and has been a working mem- paced by the brilliant perform· . SophomoreSteve Werlln won a twelve-year-old mentaLity. I ber of the facuLty since 1959. ances of a trio of underclass- thE. 200 ~ard butterfly m 2 :24_.3 happen to think the American Mrs. Crist has received nearly men who won five events and while h1s classmates, Ke':m people are as smart as I am.\ a dozen major jour n a 1 ism established three pool records ¥oben an_d Bob B~randes fm- .,==;;;;;;;;======~;;;;,;;:::;;:==:::;;:~~---=,.;;-~-;;.-;;;;;-;;;;-;.;;;-;;;;;-=--.;;;--;;.;-.;;;-:....::-:::-=-, between them. Freshman Bill 1shed behmd Volp m both the Volp won both the 50 aRd the 5~ and the TOO freestyle. Cor- 100 yard freestyles in record l'l'ga~ and Fred Fagal placed breaking times of 22.6 and 50.5, 1·2 1n the. 20~ yard backstroke respectively. The former pool to put Unwn m front by 45·34. ' record in the fifty behmged to Wins Rematch ; ; Sandy Van Kennen of V( esleyan, J'un-ior Dick Amesbury won a last year's NC~A natwnal 50 re:rnatch against Midgley over freestyle champiOn. . zoe yards as he put on a strong Jumor Bru.ce l'!loh:l ~on twice, finish to edge the fast closing in the 200 yard mdivtdual med- freshman to build Union's lead ley and the 200 yard. brea~t- to 51-37. However, Hamilton's stroke, and freshman Jim Mid· Mohl and Steve Linder swept gley won the 1000 yard freest.yle the double century breaststroke in 11:52.'1. It was the first and Hamilton's freestyle relay • BOOK SALE Schaffer Library TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1 P.M. 25¢ PER VOL. Sales Subiect to N.Y.S. Sales Tax \For three Generations.' Those Who Know Have been recommending - HERSHEL MAURICE 8. W~lTER ~lauri~ue B. Graubart & Sons u3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family,. 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWElRY time this season that the mar_a- ·docked a fast 3:36.8 to give 1 thon event has been swum ~!1 th-eir tea!u 15 of the last :1!6 -========================~=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\\\\\'\\\\\'~\\\\'\\\\...,......,~~-- Foote pool and hence ~on~u- p().ints of the· n1eet and a tie. ~-- - ----- tutes a pool record. Coach Robert Benson was '.·-· 'E w· ,·:. s Union Takes Lead disappointed with the final re- The Garnet took the lead af- suit, but was pleased by the ter the first event as a medley performance of several individ- relay foursome of Dick Corri· uals .. ~red Fagal wa;; pra~secl gan Norm Dovberg, Steve Wer- fo.L p!Cltmg up 4 crucial pomts 0 :: : f._,l_.':'·''.i:<'~. ' ~~ :~~ ~li lin 'and Jim Mogal touched o~t ~n _ tyvo close r~ces. Tom Flynn's the Continentals in 4:09.0, m mrtial effort m the 1000 yal'd f the most excitlng race of the :lireestyle was commendable as afternoon. Following the relay, was .Amesbury's comeback. ef- 0 r Midgley won the 1000 as Tom foTt m the 500 freestyle. Bar- Flynn and Dick Amesbury vey Richmoml drew praise for took second and third for the his exceptional execution oi the Garnet. Hamilton then stunned one meter board which earned Union by sweeping the 200-yard hilll a score of 201.6, his first freestyle to grab a 13-12 lead. 2()0 plus effort. Mohl and Volp won the next Union travels to Rochester. two events to increase the mar- Satluday in what promises to. gin to 23-20. Then Harvey be another even match-up. Hockey Club Forms Again By BARRY PORET After a lapse of twenty years hockey has returned to Union College. A c:ub has been organ- ized for students interested in . the increasingly popular sport, in an attempt to bring back a competing team to the college. The club meets every Wed- nesday night from 9:00-11:00 p.m. at the Niskayuna Club; Eighteen players were present at the first gathering, fifteen of them having had some ex- perience from high school or prep school. This year, provid- ing enough players join, an in- tramural league will be formed. Next year, if faculty supervis- ion is obtained, the club hopes to scrimmage other schools, in- cluding Colgate, Trinity, and Hamilton. Players may now obtain main- tenance credit for hockey but must supply their ~wn equip- ment. All enthus1asts may contact Andrew Maslow or Flip McCarth~ at 346-9330. __ Spare Some BBoodr? The Arnold Air Society Squadron in cooperation with the Schenectady Chapter of the American Red Cross will spon- sor its annual blood drive on the Union campus on February 14-15. 'The entire Union Col- lege Campus will be asked to give blood on those days. The drive will take place in the Alumni Gym from 11 A.M. to 4:45 P.M. No special prep- aration is necessary, but pros· pective donors are asked not to eat large amounts of fatty foods immediately before they do· nate. After the donor's blood has been tested andctyped, he will receive a card J;vith his blood type and the date of his dona· tion on it. The card entitles the donor to free blood-all he may need-for a year after his donation. A keg of beer will b.e award· ed to the living unit or fratern· ity with the highest percentage of donors. LOGO The Moving Finger Society is offering a $10 prize for the best drawing of a logo or sym· bol for the Moving Finger So- ciety. All art work should be sub- mitted on unlined paper, and can be turned in at the Student Activities office in Old Gym Hall. The contest is open to all Union students and will run until February 28. THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS ar1d Nvtmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST. DOJ.\~i TORIELLO (B.S. Met. E.) of the Bethlehem Steel Loop Cc;urse knows where the action i:;;. He's on the move at the nation's largest steel plant-our Sparrows Point Plant near Baltimore, Md. Join the action. First step: pick up a copy of \Careers with Bethlehem Steel and the Loop Course\ at your placement office. Then sign up I for a campus inter~view. Our 1967 Loop Class . 1 has openin~;;:; for technical · ~ and non tcdu~cal graduates ;j (ancl post-graus) for \·careers in steel operations, research, sales, mining, accounting, and other activities. An Equal Opportunity Eui.pTo_~er [n· the Plans for Progress Program BElli LEHEM STEEL pETH EHE~ ST EL ENG ·j~ili \::\,,,,,,,,*:~:;:;~*''''#;{'.,/' ,: .:· GRA '' :: ill 1 w II .;jii =1~r ,::il:;:;:;:,;:li' Continued expansion of our military and commercial busjness provides openings for virtually every technical talent. As you contemplate one of the most important decisions of your life, we suggest you consider career oppor- tunities at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft. Like most everyone else, we offer all of the usual \fringe\ benefits, in- cluding our Corporation·financed Graduate Education Program. But, far more important to you and your fu. ture, is the wide-open opportunity for professional growth with a company that enjoys an enviable record of stability in the dynamic atmosphere of aerospace technology. And make no mistake about it ... you'll get a solid feeling of satisfaction from your contribution to our nation's economic growth and to its national defense as well. Your degree can be a B.S., M.S. or Ph.D. in: MECHAN· ICAL, AERONAUTICAL, CHEMICAL, CIVIL (structures oricmted), ELC::CTR!CALr MARINE, and METALLURGI· CAL ENGiNEERING \ ENGINEERING MECHANICS, APPLIED MATHEMA!ICS~ CERAM.ICS, PHYSICS and ENGINEERING PHYSaCS. For further information concerning a career with Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, c0nsult your college placement officer-or write Mr. William L. Stoner, Engineering Department, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford, Connecticut 06108. Take a look at the above chart; then a good long look at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft-where technical careers offer exciting growth, continuing challenge, and lasting sta· bility-where engineers and scientists are recognized as the major reason for the Company's continued success. SPECIALISTS IN POWER • • • POWER FOR PROPULSIOIII- POWER FOR AUXILIARY SYSTEMS. CURREf'U UTILIZATIONS INCLUDE MILITARY Af'JD COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT, MISSILES, SPACE VEHICLES, MARINE AND INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS. Pratt & Whitney l=lircra·ft u DIVISION OF UNITED RRAFT CORP. CONNECTICUT OPERATIONS EAST HARTFORil, CONNECTICUT ·~ An Equal Opportunity Employer

MORE'ON FRATERNITIES Page3 Concordy Sports \A CAUSA PERSA PAROLE A:SSAI\ · .. ', Cagers Lose to RPI 69-68; Seek ICAC Title This Week Grapplers Extend Streak;· Five Matmen Score Pins '' r . ·)! I' R.P.I.'s Tom Kelliher made one of two f>Oul shots after time had expired to give the Engineers a 69-68 win over Union last night at the Fieldhou::e. The defeat, t~e Garnet's fourth in a row, dropped the1r record to 5-7 overall and 2-1 in the ICAC. The Engineer::.; arc ruw R-4 and finished their ICAC season with a ·1-1 record. year, ar:td outrebounded Rochester by four but simply could not get the ball in the hoop. Need Two Wins The Garnet cagers travel north this weekend in search of a share of the ICAC crown. After the defeat at the hands of RPI last night, the Garnet need a pair of wins to tie the Engineers for the title. Tile Evansmen take on St. Lawrence Friday night in Canton. The Larries have a 2-1 conference record and a 6-7 overall mark, hav· ing defeated 1-Iobart and R.-P.I. in the confer- ence while losing to Clarkson. ln other games with Garnet opponents the Larries defeated Hamilton and lost to Norwich. Leading St. Lawrence is 6-5 junior center Chris Brooks, who was on the crll-ECAC team last week Backing up Brooks are the forwards, 6-3 senior Jim Myers and 6·2 sophomore Ralph Stevens, who scored 31 points against Hami !ton· last week. The gua1·ds are 6-1 s()phomore Phil McWhorter and 6-1 s~nior Jerry l\lctcalf. the Larrics rccordcbreaking football quarterback Against R.P .I. the ~;trnet cagcrs moved to an early 'lead as the En;,;u.:.:ers shot. poorly ( 14 of 34 in the first half). A lat~ Engmeer rally made the half time ~cure 35-33. Twelve Garnet turn· overs helped. to keep n.ri in the ball game in the first half. The ca1ibre of play picked up in the second half with the Garnet grabbing a ten point lead with live miu,i.tcs gone. The Engineers then scored elc\'cn stt a.i;,ht points to. take th~ lead at the 10 minute mark. At this pomt a fun- ous Dutchmen rally led .!Jy JHn Derrick's sev.en points hr(Jught the Garnet h> ti-t-59. lead wtth -t:4:J left llmn\·er. thl' Engllwers. 11tth a press and tine uubtd.L· ~huottn~. tied thl' game at 68-all with 54 ~~cunds remaining. The l;arnet worked the ball, playing for a good shot but a hook by Turnet· was otl the mark with 13 seconds left and the Engineers rebounded. RPI then worked for the last shot and Kelliher was fouled when he worked free u;1derneath at the buzzer. The Dutchmen face Clarkson at Potsdam Sat- urday afternoon. Clarkson boasts a 2-1 confer- ence record and an 8-5 overall mark, having de- feated St. Lawrence and Hobart, but losing to R.P.I. The Golden Knights are led by 6-0 sopho- more guard Russ Hall who is averaging 25 points per game. The other guard is 5-IQ. junior Bill Eberle. At the forwards are 6-4 sophomore Darryl Dillenback and 6-4 junior Chuck Debnar. At center is 6-5 junior Joe Tompkins, a fine defen- sive player who held the Larries' Chris Brooks to one point in their encounter. All the starting five are averaging in double figures. The Garnet return to the Fieldhouse next Wednesday to face Middlebury which has yet to win in 14 games this year. Jeff Kurzius scores one of five pins against Hartford. Derrick Scores 7 5 Jim Derrick played his third fi\:e game i!l a row leading the Garnet scorers w1th 15 pomts and pulling down 14 rebounds .. Tom Urbel!s and Bill Priscott had 14 and 12 pomts, respectively. Frosh Cagers Win Twice By JEFF KURZIUS On .Saturday the Union varsity wrestlers won their third straight dual meet by smashing Hart- ford 36-5 in front of a packed crowd at the Alumni Gymnasium. Hartford was never in con- tention as the Garnet grapplers scored on five pins, two decisions, and a forfeit. Chicken Wing Saturday night at the Fieldhouse the Garnet dropped an 81· 64 decision to a far superior Rochester team. Rochester with a 7-6 record against such teams a:; Cornell, Penn, Fordham, and Purdue has not lost to the Garnet since 1958. Rochester moved ahead for good midway through the first half and took· a 37-23 lead at the interrnision. The Garnet closed the gap to The frosh cagers continued their fine play with 40-31 early in the second half but six straight hard fought wins over Rochester and R.P.I. The points by the Yellowjackets settled the issue. little Dutchmen now have a 6-2 record. The Gar- net downed Rochester 69-65 with Pete Garrison Frank D'Antuono ·started the scoring by pin- ning Hartford's captain, Jim Rohrbach, in the third period with a double chicken wing. Then Ron Iannotti decisioned his opponent at I30 by a score of 11-0. These rnatcht:Js were the third straight wins for D' Antuono and Iannotti, who have both proven to be top wrestlers for their weight classes. The score was increased to 13-0 when Jeff Kurzius pinned his opponent at 137 with the use of a half nelson-crotch ride. This was followed by Tom Tripp winning his third straight by pinning Hartford's Bob Cate in the third period. In the match, Tripp made an exceptional come- back after being down 6-4 at the end of the second period. · Rochester used fine passing and good shooting scoring 23 points. Against R.P.I. the frosh cagers ( 29 of 57) to break the Garnet zone while the jumped to 34-2a halftime lead with the help of Dutchmen suffered through a cold shooting night, very poor shooting by the Engineers and then 27 of 89 against a 2-1-2 Yellowjacket zone and used some late clutch foul shots to stave off a shot only 10 for 21 from the free throw line fine Engineer rally and win 68-61. Pete Garrison against 23 of zg for Rochester. The Garnet made played anothE?r fi!)e all-around ~all g~me .scoring only 13 turnovers, their lowest number of the 24 points, wh1le Jim Getman chtpped m wtth 19. ~~~~~~~============~ After Dick Rosener won by a forfeit, Dave Reduced Dry Cleaning Rates For Union College Students Union Jackets Pants Suits Sweaters Sportcoats Jackets $2.00 .49 .98 1.00 .75 1.50 ZUCKERMAN CLEANERS &. DYERS, Inc. Contact: JACK ETKII'I - CHI PSI - 346-9829 Campus Agent for Zuckerman Traditional Natural s,houlder Clothing Engineers, Mathematicians: Cont~ribute to Toct.lnical Programs of National Significance II II sa Creating secure communications systems and equipments unknown anywhere else. This is the mission of the National Security Agency-a mission which in turn creates problems of a high order of difficulty, re- quiring an uncommon amount of ingenuity. There Is no other organization lille it .•• no other organization doing the same im- portant work, or offering the same wealth of opportunity for imaginative graduates in mathematics or the engineering sciences. A separate agency operating within the defense estab lis hmen1, NSA has a critical requirement for: ENGINEERS. To carry out basic and applied research, design, development, testing and evaluation ot large-scale cryto- communicatie>ns and EDP systems. Engi- neers may also participate In related studies of electromagnetic propagation, upper atmosphere phenomena, super- conductivity and cryogenics using the latest equipment for advanced research within the Agency's fully instrumented laboratories, Career programs are de- ~igned to develop the professional en- !J in e'er for a full and satisfying future in ;escarch or management. MATHEMATICIANS. To define, formulate and solve complex communications-related problems in support of the NSA mission. Statistical mathematics, matrix algebra, finite fields, probability, combinatorial analysis, programming and symbolic logic are but a few of the tools applied by Agency mathematicians. They enjoy the full support of NSA's completely equipped computer laboratory where many of them often become Involved In both the hardware and soltware of advanced com- puting systems. Theoretical research is also a primary concern at N.SA, owing to the fact thatthepresent state of knowledge in certain fields of mathematics is not sufficiently advanced to satisfy NSA re- quireml\hts. CAREER BENEFITS With NSA, you enjoy all the benefits of Federal employment without the necessity of Civil Service certification. NSA's generous graduate study program permits you to pursue two semesters of full· time graduate study at full saldry wUh aca- demic costs paid by NSA. The Agency also encourages partidpation in professional Read increased the score to 28-0 bY pinning Felix Hardy in the second period. The fastest pin of the match was scored by Brian Crandall, who pinned his opponent, from the takedown, in 1:17 of the first period. Union's scoring was completed after Barry Cornwall won by a 13·2 decision, and Hartford's heavyweight won by l:l fall over Pete Kenyon to put them on the score- board. The next match for the varsity will be held on February 11 at Rochester. Following this, there will be three tough matches, including home matches on Friday and Saturday of Winter 1 Weekend against Clarkson and St. Lawrence. These matches should prove a severe test for the undefeated grappplers. Frosh Lose First On the same day, the frosh lost their first match against two wins to a powerful Fulton- Montgomery squad. The freshman winners were Bill Munno, Ron Ruhl, and Naysin Simon. Munno and Simon both increased their individual records ,, to 3-0, including two pins. The \Cipher\ Dislt\ .•• NSA symbol and one of the oldest and most effec- tive cryptographic devices known. ! assocJdlJons and assists you to attend na- Uonal meeUngs, seminars, and conferences. Located between Washington and Balti- more, NSA is also near the Chesapeake Bay, ocean beaches and other summer ant! wmter recreation areas. The location per- mtts your choice of city, suburban or country living. Starting salaries, depending on educa- tion and experience, range from $7,729 to $12,873. Check now with your Placement Office to arrange an interview with the NSA r<>presentative visiting your campus, or write to: Chief, College Relations Branch, Suite 10, 4435 Wisconsin Avenue, N. W., Washington, D.C. 20016. An eq:.~ul opportunity employer, M&F. Jos. Nusbaum, Inc. 447-451 State Street Down Town Schenectady national security agency •.• where imagination is the essential qualification. Vol. 96 -· -Ins ·Un· •~ By Anthony I-n the in Sanity, and 1 cordy offers • chologica1 te sent to yaur hood shrink analysis. Answer ea, 'ly agree: A agree; or .St1 1. Sometim Find three t! Evt; Hot Union C \residential step furthe1 ing that \al ulty move 4 Davey Lad· • dent housin tions of po cock, who ~ \trustee de tees, unfor available fo This new that marriel muters, prE live off cam to move on. was logical have a re~ you don't, Lade, seem the profun statement \How can part of sol live there? and count t quipped. Reaction was mixed. in their di married stt serious diff rules will Pool cock shouldn't b since loung are open til When asB 4 A.M. \White To\\ College tru disposal of i I don't thin ask for rnu One furtt lack of toil women. Poe a this and t replied, \If they can g4 /i Commute .- turbed at cause man~

.. ~··' .. :~ :, ... . .. Symmetry Apathy Mediocrity CIA Funds Page 4 b ( . pinning fastest Crandall, in was a 13-2 by 8. score- be held this, Winter ' test for first Fulton· were Munno records I t I Foundered at Union College 1877 Vol. 96 -· No. 17 S(:HENECTADY, N.Y., THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1967 -Instant Psychoanalysis: Unio·n Grad Devises Test •~ By Anthony Leger-Wood, de. I·n the interests of Science Sanity, and Psychiatry, the Con: cordy offers the following psy- • chological test. Results may be sent to yeur friendly neighbor- hood shrink for personalized analysis. Answer each question: .Strong- ly agree: Agree! Neuter; Dis- agree; or Strongly Disagree. 1. Sometimes I am unable to prevent clean thoughts from entering my mind. ' 2. When I was younger, I en- joyed teasing vegetablues. 3. I am not unwilling to work for jackasses. 4. I think beavers work too hard. 5. It is hard for me to say the right thing when I'm in a ::··· : .. :: ~;,,;',;:,~;~',,, .. \.;,;,,,, ,: ,;, ,<.:n·'i~~-·/••:A:!~ ' : . .;:: ··.······:···· ·:·:::@:::· three things wrong with this picture. Answers on p. 7. room filled with mice. 7. It is important to wash your hands. 8. I use shoe polish to excess. !l. It infuriates me to see an innocent man escape the chair. 10, The sight of blood no long- er excites me. 11. I believe I smell as good as most people. 12. I often follow people mak- ing strange noises. 13. I am aroused by persons of the opposite sexes. 14:. When I was a child, I was an imaginary playmate. 15. When I was a child, I used to wet the ceiling. 16. I have trouble losing frit:nds. 17. My mother reminds me of a frog. 18. Sometimes I fear that my life is too normal. 19. Theology makes me think of model car assembly in- structions. PRICE 1 5 CEN!J'S 20. President Martin makes me feel like I've just stepped in something. Newly hired faculty member is installed in his office. Even You Can Be Housed On Catnpus Union College carried its \residential college\ policy a tS step further this week,. requir- ing that \all students and fac- ulty move on campus.\ Little Davey Lade, director of stu- dent housing referred all ques- tions of policy to Dean Pool- cock, who stated that it was a \trustee decision.\ The trus- tees, unfortunately were not available for comment. This new ruling now means that married students and com- muters, previously allowed to live off campus will be required to move on. Poolcock said this was logical since either \you have a residential college or you don't, it's that simple.\ Lade, seemingly stimulated by the profundity of Poolcock's statement asked rhetorically \How can you possibly be a part of something unless you live there?\ \Shut up Davie, and count the linens,\ Poolcock quipped. M'f!rriita!Difficulties inally elected to come to Union because of the savings involved living home. Poolcock seemed especially annoyed at this and stated, \Look either you have a residential college or not, it's that simple.\ Faculty members were an- noyed at the move on campus because it will mean a definite drop in their standard of living. Since, however, the college now doesn't have the necessary dormitory space for the faculty members, they will be allowed to remain off campus until the new dorms are built. New Dorms When a reporter asked why funds were bemg used to build the new dorms when other things were needed on campus (and no one wants to live in them anyway) Poolcock replied that we were able to get govern- ment funds only for dorms and we \were never people to turn down money.\ Then he thought for a While and then brilliantly exclaimt>d, in what seemed lik:e a suddt>n realization, \Hey I got it, either you have a resi- dential college or you don't, it's that simple.\ 21. Sometimes I think Prof. Kletz is a non-svelte Clark Gable. 22. Sometimes I wish Prof. Kitz would shave off his mous- tache. 23. P.r o f. Ketzenjammer's moustache looks like it would tickle. 24. Concordiensis Editorials re- mind me of the Koran. 25. Union Students remind me of nothing. 26. Dean Lard is an adminis- trator. 27. 28. Concordiensis is a rag. The Nott Memorial reminds me of lots of things. Martini Declines Today, in an exclusive inter- view with the Concordiensis, President Harry C. Martini de- clined comment. \I comment, you comment, he, she, or it comments,\ said President Mar- tini. He continued, \We com- me!ft, you comment, t~ey com- . ment.\ Faculty Incompetence & Age Stressed In New Guidelines By M. KAEG DaVINCI The administration has fin- ally capitulated to the recent outcry of indignation (?) that has swept the campus, and has completely revamped the sys- tem of choosing facu:ty and granting tenure. Dean Teddy Lockjaw, Pro- vost and Leader of the Pack, also President-elect of Tri- Nightly College, announced yes- terday that a new set of guide- lines had been dreamed up by the age<l. Board of Trustees dur- ing their latest drunken stupor. The new rules appear to give preference to the older man, those who have yet to prove themselves academically, and anyone else who has recently flunked his Wassermann. Sveter-Son Chosen According to Prexy Hallowed C. Martian, the new guidelines have proved most useful in a number of recent appointments and dismissa!s. The first of these involved the choice of Dean Lockjaw's successor. The Administration has chosen Prof. Pen Sveter-Son to fill this post because of his exceptional per· formance in the past and hi:; unparaUelled interest ifi both his discipline and his students. Prof. Sveter-Son has already re- quested that Hugh Hefner and the entire \Playboy Syndrome\ be added to his staff. Dean of Students, 0. Edmund Polecat, has also been slated for demolition. It is generally felt in the upper echelons of the Administration that the job should be handled by an older man possessing that \wisdom that comes with age.\ The de- cision has therefore been made to appoint the all-wise and ever- popular Bill Metz (formerly of the Ex:ercise-your-body-twice-a- -week department) to that post. Fo!ecat hasn't been forgotten though. He and his assistant, :Mr. Lard, have been transfer- red to the grounds crew. The renewed interest in the elderly scholar appears to have manifested itself in the recent !!9 year contracts that the Col- lege has offered to Lenny B. Lark of Bio, and Gus the Fox <lf Arithmetic. According to .Jimmy Palmolive, Boss of Cen- ter II, the College does recog- nize the special problems of the aged, and has therefore ap- proved the purchase of a scoot- er for Lenny. In addition, both he and Gus will be enrolled in the Forget-Me-Not Memory School. Recent rumors from the Eng- lish Department indicate that Gramps Week has been asked to remain until the turn of the century, but that he has chosen instead to accept a position as Editor of \Playboy's. Party Jokes.\ An informed faculty member indicated that the new guidelines stem from the re- cent loss of such \remnants of the old ,guard,\ due to the \sud- den influx of adolescents into our ranks.\ Concordiensis was most fortunate to obtain this information when it did, due to the sudden death of the faculty member at the conclusion of the interview. Medical reports in- dicate that he died of senility and assorted complications. He was 106. 75 Skiddoo In order to implement the new policy, the College has in- stituted a blanket dismissal of a!l faculty members under the age of 75. Many younger men have been able to retain their positions, though, by disclosing their incompetence, and have therefore been granted another chance, and a salary increase. \We like to encourage certain select young men,\ Martian em- phasized. Reaction to the new ruling was mixed. Especially adament in their disapproval were the married students who foresaw serious difficulties since social rules will still be in effect. Poolcock stated that this shouldn't be too much trouble since lounges in West College are open till 4 A.M. Vigilantes Insure Chastity In New Dorms \Naturally provisions have been made to replace the dis· missed faculty,\ Lockjaw added. \We have been fortunate enough to recruit a large number of men from Parsons College (of- ten referred to as Flunk-Out U), and quite a few others from the Schenectady Home for the Aged.\ When asked what about after 4 A.M. Poolcodt retorted, \White Tower is open all night. College trucks will be at the disposal of girls who need rides. I don't think the students could ask for much more.\ One further criticism was the lack of toilet facilities for thf' women. Poolcock thought about this and then philosophically replied, \If they don't like it they can go someplace else.\ It's Simple Commuters were also dis- turbed at the new ruling be- cause many of them had orig- The time is 2:00 A.M.; the place is a room upstairs. Here a Union student puts into prac- tice Ru!e 2 of Sex and the Col· lege Student. Notice the posi- tion of the arms, hips, knees, and most importantly, the lips. Hidden from your view is a tongue, lost in a cave of fire. However, the picture tells only a part of the story. At aoproximately 3:05 A.M. the U.I.C. Purity Patrol burst inside and caught the couple perform- ing Rule 49. When arraigned, the accused 1<~id \I was only tryitr~ t0 be hospitable, trying to give the true Union image. Students at Harvard, Berkeley, and Michi- gan march around foolishly with placards. We at UniCln make love. And when we prac- tice. what we preach, what psy- chologists preach, we get fin- gerprinted.\ Showing signs of losing his cool, the defendant exclaimed, Exnibit A, from .the persecution. Photograph taken by Resident , Advisor's Purity Patrol at approx·imately 3:05 a.m. .. Who the u** took that pic- ture?\ · \This one?\ said a reporter, showing him the photograph printed here. \No the other one-you know, the one where she and I were . . . . This is definitely an invasion of privacy. Tell me how this differs from the Man- chester case-just tell me!\ No one said a word. His attorney, Mr. F. Lee Bailey, smiled confidently as if to promise an immediate ac- quital. And the girl? She was blond, a 36-24-36. She was also from Skidmore. In a gesture of dip- lomatic proportions, the author- ities decided to set her free. Informed sources say she has made application to Berkeley. The defendant is also being held for possession of porno• graphic photos. - \For you;r information, the Continued o~ Page. 2 North College Blown Until the remaining vacancies can be filled, however, various members of the athletic depart- ment will assume temporary academic positions. Of special interest is the appointment of Coac}). Tart Florence as Tem- porary Professor of Art, and Acting Chairman of the Depart, ment of the Fine Arts. Flor- ence disclosed in a recent in- terview that he will retain his association with the ath!etic de- partment, and at his suggestion, the Trustees ha:ve approved a new combined Fine Arts and Physical Education major, for selected students. . New Old-Age Contracts Prexy Martian best summar- ized the new guidelines in his recent statement: \The winds of change have blown, and your ancient walls do shudder and shake.\ (This may refer, Continued on Page 2

2 Thursday, February 16, 1967 BRIEFS Liebersraum Plotted Union Seeks Boardwalk From Parker Brothers Party Flops Geneva: World renowned ad- venturer, Edward C. Carlock re- turned to Geneva today after climbing the Mattuhorn with his hands in his pockets. When asked if he did this in order to establish himself as the world's most skilled mountain climber, Curlock replied, \Not really, I just didn't want to have my pockets picked.\ Bombay: Nu Khandu, leader and high guru of millions of de- vout Indian religions, announc- ed that if the world did not end today, it might possibly end to- morrow. Ohio: The mayor of Fern Ridge, Ohio, announced today that Adolph Hitler is definitely, not hiding in the fair city. \We have conducted a most thorough search, and we have found no trace,\ stated .Judge Crater, Di· rector of Pu'blic Relations for the obscure city. New York: Harold R. Bene- dici, .37, of 1427 155th Street, a plumber and member of good standing in Local 330, was asked today whether he felt the Wil- son-Kosygin talks would have anv influence on the war in Vietnam? Benedici, was quoted as saying, \I have nothing fur- ther to add at this time.\ London: General A. Tombom reported that, \Due to a disap- pointingly poor turnout we are forced to postpone World War Three indefinitely. This is most unfortunate as only last week we had chosen up sides.\ We sincerely sympathize with Gen- eral Tombom. . The newly appointed director of planning and development coordination unveiled today Un- ion's long awaited plan for cleaning up the surrounding area. \We're going to demolish it and build a dormitory,\ he said amiably. Thereby we will be vastly im- proving our relations with the surrounding community by elim- inating it.\ He went on to say, \It's a part of our big plan for liebensraum here in the happy family of Union.\ Moggal Urges Restraint Reaction to the vast univer- sity's ''Community renewal\ plan ranged from mild bewild- ernment to outright opposition. The youthful, smiling Presi- dent of the University, Hinky C. Mougu•l, reaching in his pa- latial penthouse overlooking Sodum and Gamorrah, the new dorms, and the lovely Union Campus, said, \Gee it sounds like a peachy idea, but I don't know what to think about it. I'll have to consult our public relations department to see just what my opinions are. But I can say at this time that I will urge restraint in the proposed purchase of Niskayuna.\ Bailey Hall Stormed The Association of Bars and Motel Owners to Save State Street took a dim view of the action. About 500 persons showed up at the Polaski monu- ment to protest the purchase Experts Will Discuss Smut The formation of Union College's first annual Festival of the Arts was announced yesterday by President Martin Harold. \Be- cause of the increasing interest at Union in the arts,\ said Harold in a carefully prepared speech made to newsmen, \we have decided to start another Union tradition - a Festival of the Arts. Of course \ he continued \Union being as it is, there will be several unique aspects to this' festival.\ He then continued with a sche~ule of the proposed activities. This schedule is briefly summanzed below: Thursday. 8:30 Old Chapel - The festival will be opened with a poetry reading by B. M. Johns, distinguished leader of the \Troy group\ of poets. lVIr Johns has had his poetry printed in \Mr. Beautiful\ \.Joe's Smoke - Shop Annual,\ and \The Idol\ (Mr. J,phns. is lm alumnus of Union, Class of 1945). He is also noted for having his poetry quoted on the . w:alls of hundreds of wa~hrooms. (His, work is currently being exhtb~ted at. the College Inn m Sche- nectady.) Friday, 3:30 Field House,- The:r;e.,will be. a lect~re on \Fra- ternities and the Arts,\ given by Melw.jll F~rnstem, Chmman of the Custodial Staff, Antioch College. It wiU be a closed lecture and will be tapped in. t Friday, 8:30, Memorial Chapel- An open disc_ussion.is ~lanned on- the general topic of \P~'tnography.\ Panelists w1ll mclude Father Sean O'Collins, author of tll.e handbook How to Start a Decency Leag11e; or, How to Read, Smut and Increase Your Social Standing in the Conunmity at the Same Time; David Leer, author of \The Public Speaker and Sex Jokes.\ a.nd other poems; and noted Andy Warnhull, noted sculptor and painter, whose most famous works include \Excretions # 1\ and \Toilet Bowl, 1965.\ Saturday, 3:30, Nott Memorial- There will be a talk on \Union Gollege's Contributions to the Arts\ by Bosley Chowder. The talk will· consist of singing \Home Sweet Home\ and reading several of!((Jhester A. Arthur's more eloquent speeches. ... ~ .. ; ' Saturday, 8:30, Memorial Chapel- The Festival of the Arts will be concluded with a concert by \ 1'he Four Seasons,\ accompanied by the Union College Student Orchestra. The concert will be fol- lowed by a discussion by WRUC \Bad :Boys\ on \The Contribution of Pop Music to the Widening of Cultural Values.\ Featured will be rare tapes of such classics as \Let's Spend the Night Together\ and \Sock it tcr Me, Baby \ President Harold, in concluding his speech, said the festival was designed to \interest the average Union student. We think we have scheduled a program that ~s a true reflection of the state of the arts at Union, and of the directions that Union, as an institu· tion, is taking. I, for me, can but agree.\ Ho-Ho-Ho Chi Minh After returning from a hard day's fighting in the jungle, a Vietcong needs refreshment. It's not all fighting though. At a Vietnamese Fiestspiel it's not uncommon to find native families harvesting rice, plant- ing punji stakes, carrying off their dead, and otherwise dis- porting themselves. Which makes everybody thirsty, no? Chic Pajamas So they steal out of their vil- lage in their gay, chic, black pa- jamas and attack Special Forces, which makes them even thirs- tier. Eeee-yaaa. Rhinegold,'s Ex- tra dry, the ~eer that p1cks up all sorts of happy occasions. In fact, in DaNank, where there are more Americans than in all of Trenton, N. J., more people drink Rhinegold than any other beer. How Come? We don't know. But we must be dhuing something right. Faculty ••• Continued from Page 1 though, to the piece of North College stucco that landed on Prexy's head during a recent tour.) \You must adapt your- selves to the new climate that I am .creating for you. Long live Harvard!\ and burned the Union President in effigy. After the rally the crowd, by now swelled to over a thousand, stormed Bailey Hall screaming impercations and brandishing rocks and clumps of grass. The Air Force ROTC, defend- ing the building, shot and killed 14 attackers before the crowd finally dispersed. --------· --- Vigilantes • • • Continued from Page 1 best one is dead center on the wall,\ screamed the accused as he was taken away. This case is to have nation- wide repercussions. Sean Con- nery, Hugh Hefner, and Chris- tine Keeler are expected to be called as witnesses. One might call this the \Garnet Purge.\ Union has purchased Board- .. walk, it was learned yesterday. The purchase of the exclusive property from the estate of the famous recluse, Parker Bros., : was announced yesterday by Union's director of develop- . rnent. Mayor Elias J. Mortician an- . nounced to the press that he · was \shocked. Now they'll prob- . ably tear down all those lovely green houses and 'put up an ' ugly red hotels er dorms. I ' am amazed by the attitude of · · Union in buying boardwalk. Es- . peciaUy after they had just pur- chased Ventnor Place from the city fathers.\ The purchase of the Board- walk site for Sllch a small · amount of money-, '\only a roll of the dice,\ c<>nunented Mr. Tinderhead, development burs- . er, brought comment from Per- renial Presidential candidate Michael Bunkowitz, who de- manded to be told why the col- · lege had purchased the property : at a time when tuition was ris- ing. \I demand to knew why the college purchasecl. the property at a time when tuition is ris- ing,\ he said. Dr. Tinderhead commented that Union could never have bought the proper-ty were it not for a \bank error in our fl\VOr.\ A group of independents un- der the leadership of Andy Kahn sought this week to or- ganize a cocl~;tail party in the lounge of Davidson Hall for Saturday afternoon. The· plan fell thnough because there was not a large enough response. A poll taken last week showed that 86 dormitory residents were interested ·in such an un- dertaking. However, ticket sales lagged so that Kahn decided to call off the affair. This enterprise marks the first attempt. by non,affi'liated men to make use .of :the facili· ties in the new dorms. An in- formed sourse blamed its ap- parent. lack of success to the brief period availaple for plan- ning tlte party and incorporat- ing it intq each individual's plans. When we say we want people for the outer limits, this isn't what we have in mind. Forget science fiction. We're talking about the \outer limits\ of technology. And these days it can be even more exciting than science fiction. Right now IBM needs qualified men and women to help reach these outer limits. The kind of people who have made IBM the leader in today's fastest-growing major industry: in- formation handling and control. And the kind of people who can grow with us as far as their talents and abilities allow. The result? Gr.eatcr personal responsibility and recognition; the dual satisfaction of per- sonal achieveinent and continuing personal rewards. A pre-tt:'/ satisfying .result. Job opportunit:ies at IBM are in six major areas: Computer Applications, :Programming, Finance and Administration, Research and Development, i'lanufacturing and Marketing. Whatever your immediate commitments, whatever !'OUr area of study, sign up now for an on-campus interview with IBM, F\'ebruary 21. 22. If, for some reason, you aren't able to arrange an-interview, drop us a line. Write to: \-·'lanager of College Recruiting, IBl\1 Corporation, 590 Madison Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022. IBM is an Equal Oppmtunity Employer. Thursda)l .. • , Di~ do of' • Pr~ e The '] • sponsori missal ' structor ior Colle college • having < Bunch • no rec01 are poli missal).' .. Bunch End ll€ tion Pr rights r .. apparen1 Albany' izing th1 111 Last 1 and he!: slapp;Lig wa' apt s fa,her, • charges. Bunch • suiting Mayor a!so ·on Russel-S ~. Jr. Colle Dr. Fe Sage stl a that \w1 State De ing a ft ing soci <:t state ha Dr. C< two oth1 f active moveme has bee Stude1 the pro1 City Stl About 1 faculty : mittee t Vietnam \ l • • '1. • • • The c the meE petition ident J \Woi! th mediate. bombin~ essentia Vietnarr culated college B ~ ' ..

dents un- of Andy to or- in the Hall for The, plan was pons e. showed residents an un- sales ecided to the facili- An in- its ap. to the for plan- \ 'I Thursday, February 16, 1967 .. • 'Dismissal do of Teachers • Protested The Tri-City Students Alliance is • sponsoring a rally to .protest the dis- missal of George Bunche, an In- structor in Sociology at Albany Jun- ior College, on the grounds that the college has been criticised for not • having a fully trained sociologist. Bunche's ·Comment V.'a:., ·- 1 have .e no recourse but to think that there are political overtones (to this dis- missal).\ Bunche,. the Director of the South End neighborhood Comrr.unity Ac- tion Program, and active in civil rights movements in the area has • apparently aroused the ire of the Albany \political machine\ :for organ- i:dng the poor. Last nc>vember Bunche was jailed and hel::1 without bail for 3 days for slapp;Lig a 12 year old girL Pressure war- apparently placed on the girl's 111 fa,her, an Albany fireman, to press charges. Bunche sees his dismissal as re- • suiting from political pressure from Mayor Corning of Albany, who is a~so on the Board of Trustees of Russel-Sage College, of which Albany ~ Jr. College is a subsidiary. Dr. Forman, the President of Russel Sage stated in his letter to Bunche a that \we have been criticised by the State Dept. of Education for not hav- ing a fully trained sociologist teach- ing sociology.\ Bunche contends the ., state has said nothing of the sort. Dr. Corning has also sent letters to two other instructors who have been ., active in the Albany civil rights movement. One of these instructors has been teaching for 6 years. • Students desiring to participate in the protest rally should call the Tri- City Students Alliance at 457;8751. End Bo1nbing About fifty Union students and faculty attended a meeting of a Com- mittee to End the Bombing in North Vietnam yesterday at Baily Hall. The only specific action taken at the meeting was the drafting of a petition which will be se?~ to !:'res- ident Johnson. The petition read: \W c the undersigned favor an im- mediate extended cessation of the bombing of N ortp., Vietnam as ~n essential prereqms1te to peace m Vietnam.\ The petition will be cir- culated among members of the college community this weeek. CONCORDY NEWS Cliff Safane (/eft), ja·zz pianist will qppear with ·his trio Friday night at 7:30 in Memorial Chapel; Chad and Jeremy (right), rock and roll stars, and special added attraction,. singer Janice Jan, will appear Saturday nisht. :Ti.Ckets ar~ still avail- able from floor representatives and at the Student Activities of.fice. Laird Lists RA ~Responsibilities By RICHARD PATTERSON, JR. \Ultimately the Resident Advisor is responsible for the general welfare of the men in his unit, and for ad- herence to the policies and rules of the college.\ Thus David B. Laird, Director of Residence Programs, de- scribed the responsibilities of Resi- dent Advisors in a recent interview. \Of course,\ he went on, \they also have much wider responsibilities. Their's is an advisory position.\ He pointed out that the role of the resi- dent advisor has been changing, be- cause of the new social rules. The R.A.'s are becoming advisors to the Inter-Residence Council members, who have the prime responsibility for enforcing the social rules. Reference Person Mr. Laird also stressed that the R.A.'s are available for counsel- ing and advising on personal, social, and academic problems. \One of the greatest and most important roles of the resident advisor is that of a ref- erence person,\ he said, \to whom you can turn with questions about campus matters and college life in general. He can either answer your questions or direct you to someone who can.\ Most of the resident advisors queried agreed with Laird's definition of their responsibilities. David Wie· land Head Resident Advisor in David- son Hall, said that \the prime respon- sibility for enforcing the social rules lies with the Unit Leaders. There will be no more police action by the resident advisors. We like to gh:e the unit leaders more than a fall' chance to make the decisions and do their job. If the system break~ down, then the R.A. is there to ultunate~y uphold the rules. But e·ven the unit leader doesn't have to be around 99 out of every 100 minutes,'' ~ny _stu- dent mav personally report VIolations of the rules to the Judicial Board.\ R.A. Checks Halls Further regarding the duty of the resident advisors, Wieland said that the R.A. on duty in every building is supposed to check the halls occasion- ally for \ma~or disturbances or dam- age,\ James Strata, Head Resident Ad- visor in West College, also empha- sized that unit leaders have prime re- sponsibility for seeing that the rules are upheld. He praised the unit lead- ers, and student conduct in general, saying tltat unit leaders have gener- Film Group The Moving Finger Film Workshop will meet Thu.rsday, Feb. 16, at 8:30 p.m., in the Phi Beta Kappa room of the librar'y, and at 3:00 p.m., Friday, Feb. 17, on the first floor of Carnegie Hall. The Friday meeting is for those who wish. to have their camera tech- nique checked. In other news, poet Howard Ne- merov, who was sche!luled to speak to the Moving Finger this Thursday, was unfortunately forced to cancel his visit. However, in the near future we are plaOIJing to have other speak- ers of similar stature. S. T. Coleridge, an excellent but little known poet, will speak before the Moving Finger in late February. The exact date will be announced soon. folk F.:sti-val The SDcial Committee of Hamilton College will sponsor a Folk Festival for the weekend of March 17th and 18th. Student performers from any northeastern college are welcome. The te-n best groups will perform in the fi11als at eight o'clock Satur- day nigll.t in the Hamilton College Gymnasium. The finals as well as the prelim- inary elimination will be open to the public. Students interested in participating should write: Social Committee Hamilton College Clinton; New York 13323 ally done a good job, and there has been little trouble so far. From John WErley, Resident Ad- visor in Davidsoa Hall, carne the re- minder that unit leade:rs have the same power for- enforcing college rules and levying :fines as does the resident advisor aimself. Werley said he saw his job as primarily that of an advisor. Aske«i to what extent he personally enforcEd the rules, he re- plied, \I don't .gOo around from room to room. I just make the rounds through the hall to 'be sure there is quiet.\ Little Frouble He echoed the .opinion of the other R.A.'s interviewed. \There has been little or no tro11bJe besides the usual noise,'' he said. Werley also said that it was no longer ~u:it~ as easy for an R.A. to supervise parties, because many students pr-~fer suite parties to lounge parties. Carl Feigenbau::m, Resident Advisor in South College!· :Said that he does en- force the socia rules, but that he definitely felt thctt this enforcement is the responsibiljty- of tbe unit lead- er, not the resident advisor. When asked how he eaforces the rules he commented, \I siit in the lounge and watch for any ha.nky-panky that may occur. \But he !f;dded, \l trust every- one.\ .... · AppfJcations Mr. Laird added that anyone who wishes to become a resident advisor in the future 1 wCJuld be wise to as- sume a position of responsibility in the Inter-Residence Council or his Fraternity. Also, a talk with one of the present R.As would be helpful in acquainting one with the nature of the job. This Sp:ring, the Director of Resi- dence Programs will receive applica- tions for the job of Resident Advisor. The applicati(}DS are evaluated care· fully in regard t..:J the applicant's in- terest, and the possible motivating for-ces behind his application. Many applicants are ]lersonally interviewed. Mr-. Laird stressed that any student interested in the job of resident ad- visor should he an unde:rstanding in- dividual, who is 'Wiilling to help solve student pro blen1s 3 Skidlllore IRC Joins Union Club Robert Giovanetti, president of the International Relations Club, has an- nounced the merger of the Union and Skidmore Clubs. The purpose of the merger, effective immediately, is bet- ter co-ordination of activities to pro- vide a more balanced program for both clubs Some of the activities planned for this year include a joint banquet and lecture, an international night, at least two excursions to the United Na- tions, a seminar for area high school students, and jointly-sponsored speak- ers. The Club had its first combined meeting last night at Skidmore. Dr. James R. Cobbledick, assistant pro- fessor of government at Skidmore, spoke on the topic \Can the U. S. Be the Policeman of the World?\ Arab To Speak The first joint meeting at Union will be held on Tuesday, February 21st. Tasheen M. Basheer, senior staff member of the Arab States Perman- ent Delegation to the U.N., will speak on \The Arab States in a Changing Africa.\ The meeting at 4:30 p.m., in Hale House Lounge is open to the entire college community. Giovaneti has also announced that the Club's annual membership is un- derway. With increased, active mem- bership the Club will be able to send delegations to conferences held on other campuses. Several I.R.C. mem- bers will be attending a model U.N. session at Harvard College, March 9- 12. Anyone interested in joining the I.R.C. should attend a business meet- ing on Thursday, February 23 at 4:30 p.m. in the Hale House Student- Lounge. Pre-Meds HEMATOLOGY SEMINARS The Pre-Med Society in co-opera- tion with Dr. Gerald Parkhurst, Chief Pathologist at EWs. Hospit.al, h~s scheduled some trammg semmars m blood typing, differentials, h~moglob­ in, red blood counts, and wh1te blood counts. A 28 page pamphlet,_ The Morphology of Blood Cells, w1ll be used in combination with the lectures. Students attending the seminars will receive information concerning professions in the areas of laboratory technology and pathology, as well as valuable technique and an invaluable reference text. Any interested students should con- tact Paul Rabin at 377-9823 or David Radez at 393-5651 for further infor- mation __ \ UNION BOOK COMPANY 237-241 STATE STREET FERRO PHARMACY 575 Nott Street Schenectady, N. Y. Wllat Can You Get at 0 L E Y ' S ? WHISKEY! •.•• I • • ' • • • Books • • • Paperback Classics Party Favors.·~ • Art Sa!pplies Office ~upplies 135 ERIE BOULEVARD Boulevard Bowl 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Hours Daily - SNACK .BAR ON PREMISES FR 7-0510 • FOUNTAIN SERVICE THf~-. PEANUT STORE-. Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutmeats from all over the world. 406 STATE ST • The Best Social Lubricant Going -- Bar None SPECIAL CONSII>ERATION SHOWN TO UNION MEN 151 Y2 E~.M~tei-n A vem:.e (Corner .Jackson Place) (_;£ l~ WOA:J SJ9UU!Q asJnO:) 11\:1 Ml KE ROTH'S OF UPPER UNION STREET BROILED FILET MIGNON __ ..... $1.95 .. BE.EFKBOB ········-- .. __ ........... ··--· $1.95 dpen Nightly till 3 A.M . 377-0350 Special to ·Union Students: No Cover or Minimum 1~ PE~ .~ENf 9fF ~N.J,-LL FOOD AND DRINK

4 Editor.ial Office. Old Gym, Union Col- lege. Publication Office, Schenectady Printing Company, 602 Broadway. Entered in the Schenectady Post .Of- .• _Letters To The Editor._ .. . .. . Union Intellectuals To the Editor: Congratulatioll.S to Phil Rice, . ·. Jeff DeMunn, and the rest of . the Mountebanlrs cast for a gen- uinely excellent rendition of . The Aichl;lmist. It showed an · earnest effort t1> which the col- lege community owes much . praise and gratitude. It is re- gretable, however, that the Thursday, February 1·6, 1'967 . '. ··c AROU'ND \TOWN·<; . ALBANY Theatres: Delaware - ••Blow-up\ Hellman - \The Bible Story\ Madison - \Dr. Zb.ivago\ Palace - \Venetian Affair\ State University~ ·•Guaranteed Annual Wage,\ Professor Irving H. Sabghir, 121 So]lth Ferry Street, Sunday at 8:45p.m. SARATOGA Cafe Lena - Michael CooneY Colll;!ge Inn- Sour hour 3:00 to 6:00 p.m. Sunday Community Theatre- ••Doctor Zhhrago\ Published Thursdays during the scnoo1 year bY the Student Body of Union Colle,..e, Schenectady, N. Y. National Advertising Representative: National Adv•rtlslng Service, Inc., Colleg• Publishers Representatlv~. 420 Mndt· son Ave .. N. Y. C. fice as Second Class Mail Matter. . Subscription lf>c a copy; $8 a year delivered anywhere In the L'nlted Mountebanks lacked the insight to remember an equally import- D'Andrea's - Sour hour 4:00 to 6!00 p.m. Friday Rip Van Dam- Sour h()ur 7:00 to 9:00 p.m. Friday ~· States. SCHENECTADY Theatres: Colony - \A. Funny Thing Happened on the .-F..NIOlt BOARn ant attraction to Union men. The Friday production inter- ferred with the sour hour at . the Rip Van Dam, and such a- . Way to the Forum\ Procto.rs - \Venetian Affair\ and \Shadow of Evil\ ·t• JOSEPH A. ~IA:O:_:.{, JR. '68 ................................................................ Ectitol•-in-Chief · rare event as that had infinite- JACK EJTKlr-:! '68 ............................................................................. Business Manager ly more ap.pea.l. Didn't you . RICHARD BALAGUR '69 ................................................................................ News Editor k M M · h h ALAN ZIEGLER '69 .............................................................................. Features Editor . · now, ·r. enwet er, t at' Un- MICHAEL LEVIN-EPSTEIN '69 ............................................................ Sports Editor . ion men receive the full bene- CLIFF f1A~'A:O:b: ·r.n .................................................. uu\i~ Editor . fits of a libeTal arts education by getting drinks at forty cents a shot? How misjudging of you to seriousl:sr believe that a presentation of Ben Jonson's rare genius and his celebrated wit could actua1hr interrupt the stampede to Saratoga. JUNIOR BOARD . Alan Klein '69 . .. .. .. .................................................................. Ass't News Editor Dick Daniel • iO ......................................................................................... Photographer Peter Drotman • 6 9 .............................................................. Local Advertising Manager ' George Volanal<ls 'G9 ................................................................... Subscription Manager J'oel Rubenzahl '68 ........................................................ National Advertising Manager Henry Rines ''59 ........... ........... ...... ...... . .................................... Distribution Manager Paul Gerber '68 ........................................................................... Circulation l\1anager Qar~r Prevost '6!l ............ Associate Sports Editor AI L~vl 'C9 .............................................. Assistant Sports Editor STAFF MEi\IDERS NE\VS: Bl'lan Hqlle:v. Len Kas-an, Nell Kramer, Richard Patterson, Carl Engle- bart. Hal Ross. FEATURES: StPve l\ox. Bt•ian Izzo. Jim Koltz. SPORTS: Mike Euchs, Mike Klayman, Jef.f Kurzius, Len Simon. Toward Wholeness The merger of Union and Skidmore International Re- lations Clubs is a significant step in extending our interests beyond the fence that separates Union from the rest of society. It is far too simple for an all-male (or all-female} school to lose sight of the fact that life is co-ed. Union is by no means an exception to this tendency since atti- tudes here seem to indicate that female company is taken in weekly doses to relieve boredom, sexual tensions and a lack of attentive listeners. Unfortunately, an all-male environment lends itself to this type of feeling, rather than t(j.'one which considers the other sex as an integral part of living: one which sees the need for a heterosexual inter- ests, viewpoints and activities on a day to day basis. Scott Siegler Independents To the Edit()r: After evaluating the resu·ts of the questi()llnaire passed out last week, qnd the ticket sales conducted Saturday and Sun- day, it was dec:ided to postpone our first pa11t:v attempt unti'l next quarter. There definitely will be a party for Sprillg Weekend, and, hopefully, one on a weekend in which there are no other major activities. We hope to , see if we can arouse .enough interest to create new activities on cam- pus, instead of waiting for them to happen. There is also hope of other parties, to coin- cide with Se11ior Weekend, if Andy Kahn '69 Bronner House Dissenting Dissenter To the Editor : , . An editorial in the Feb. 9 · Issue of Concordiensis stated that \ConC()rdiensis lauds th<e organizers and participants of the Ad-Hoc-Committee to Stop the Bombing in North Vietnam. The paper also referred to this as a 'worthwhile cause.' As a member of the Concordiensis staff who doesn't at all agree with this opinion, I am writing this to complete disassociate myself from the views of Con- cordiensis as expressed in the ed~torial qu()ted above. RichaJ:d Patterson, Jr. '70 it is held this year, and other scheduled activities of the Prof. Sinton Student Tax Committee. To the Editor: We feel that there were two I was very disturbed to lellrn main problems involved in the of the administration's failure Winter Weekend attempt: to renew Ml·. Sinton's contract 1 l There was less than a Mr. Sinton has proven himsell week to do all of the organizing a. ctl!lirably <h.,tring his t~J;lle at required, and ily that late date Umon. He 18 a fine teacher many independents had· made who earnestly tries to stimulate other plans. his s~udents' interest in history. 2) We found. among many in- He IS. always available after dependents an unwillingness to class for consultation. commit themselves to a specific I hope that the college will time for when they wanted the reconsider Mr. Sinton's position Scotia Art - \Alfie\ · S~ate - \Doctor Zhivago\ Dialogue Coffee Ho11se- Thurs.-Sun., 8·12 p.m.; this Sat. 8:_45 \Views of the .College Generation\ by the Movin~ Fmger TROY Theatres: Colony - \Impossible on Saturday\ and \No- body Go Home'' Proctors - \Venetian Affair\ and \\Shadow of Evil\ Troy- \Kiss the Girls and Make Them Die\ and \Rage?' CAMPUS CALENDAR .-- Friday, Februar~ 17: Wrestling; Union vs. Clarkson, 3:30 p.m..,. GymnasiUm. . Film Series: :•Aren't W,e :w-onderful,\ 7:00 and 9:00 p.m..,. Social Sciences Bmldmg, Room 16. Jazz Workshop Concert. 7:30 p.m., Memorial Chapel Saturday, _February 18: -w:restling; Union vs. St. Lawrence,, 1.00 p.m., GymnasiUm. fSasketball: Fa~ulty vs. Students, 2:30, Field House~ Ba.sketball; Umon vs. Stevens, 4:00 p.m., Field House. Wmter Weekend Concert: Chad and Jeremy and Janis Ian, 8:00 p.m., Memorial Chapel. ' Monday, February 20: Naval Aviation Officer Procurement Team, 10:00-2:00 p.m., Hal~ ¥ouse Student Lounge. Tuesday~ February 21: Naval Avmho11. ,Officer Procureme1.1t . Team, 10:00-2:00 p.m., Hale House Student Lounge. Mountebanks Tryouts: 7:00-9:00 p.m., Nott Memorial Theatre, Student Council Meeting, 7:30 p.m., Hale House Student Lounge. Wednesday, Februar~ 22: N£()untebanks 'I'ryouts, 7:00-9:00 p.:rn. Nott Memorial Theatre. ' FreshHman Basketball; Union vs. Wesleyan, 6:15 p.m.,Fie1d• ouse Student Scie_nce Seminar.: ''Paleoec()]ogy,\ Professor Philip C. Hewi~t •. Department of Geology, 7:15 .p.m., Ha:.le House Dmmg Room. · Basketball; Union vs_ Wesleyan, 8:()0 p.m., Field House. Thtlisday, February 2:-1: Convocation: Founder's Day, H::JO p.m., Memorial Chapel. Dr. Abbott Cummings, Bosbn Architectural Historil:tn '·Colonial Arcl!itecture in Ne\\7 England\ 2·30 pm' _ Old Chapel. · ' · · ., Fnday, FGebruar:y 24: Swimming: Union vs. R.P.I., 2:30 p.m., ymnasmm. Freshm~n Swimming; Union vs. R..P.I., 3:15 p.m., Gy:rn- nasmm. Film S~ril;s; \Moana '7:00 and 9:00 p.m., Social Sciences Obviously, much of this wholistic interaction is pre- cluded by the fact that we are an all mens' institution. Although the entire educational process at Union would be greatly benefited through adopting a co-educational policy, this change is one which cannot be effected im- mediately. A healthy tendency in this direction, though, is the combining of the two IRC groups; we hope that more campus organizations will make an effort to expand their memberships and perspectives through similar actions. BUildmg, Room 16. party to be held, and when they before he lea:ves. would know :for sure if they · Clifford Safane '69 ~~L~~~~-~~~~ 9 ~\~\~\~\~\~\~ .. ~ .. ~ .. ~ .. ~ •• ~,¥~n~n~n~;.~ •• ~.~ ... ~ .. ~ .. ~.i.. 1 ·: .. G. BALFOUR CO. , CARLSORENSEN DEWITT'S ~ We also urge the college to co-operate in this venture by providing transportation facilities for those students who are participating in such worthwhile activities. CIA Contributions CAREERS IN STEEL Our representati~e will be on campus MA:RCH6 BADGES - lUNGS - FAVORS ~ JEWELRY ~ LEATHER GIFTS Cafeteria and Tap Room STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLU!f. PINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES .Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N.Y. 13210 Fine Food and Legal ;a.everages 11 8 - 1 20 JAY STREET Concordiensis was stunned to learn that a national student organization, of no mean reputation, has been re- ceiving funds secretly from the CIA. to interview undergraduate and graduate candidates for Bethlehem's '67 Loop Course ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES Such an opportunity to increase the college's endow- ment has obviously never been considered. It is unfor- tunate that large student groups, like the NSA, have t~ken the initiative in securing generous donations from such philanthropic and benevolent societies. It is indeed un- fortunate that a college of Union's stature has overlooked such areas; financial problems will never be solved unless foresight and imagination are used. Unfortunately, it will now be necessary for us to compete against every far-sighted school in the country to obtain such grants. But it is incumbent upon us to make the attempt; for unless we tap the resources of our great society Union's future will surely be dim. Let the lager freely flow. Down to Louis', let us go, A unique place to dine with old European Atmosphere NICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. Food Unexcelled in This Area For reservations phone FR 4-8917 -our highly regarded management training program OPPORTUNITIES are available in steel plant oper- ations, sales, research, min- ing, accounting, and other adivities. DEGREES required are mechanical, metalfurgical, electrical, chemical, indus- trial, Ci vii, wining, and other e1;1gi.neerin g special- ties; also chemistry, phy- sics, mathematics, business administra-tion, accounting and liberal arts. If you would like to discuss your caree.r interest with a Bethlehem representative, see your placement officer to arrange for an interview appointment. An E qu.al Opportunity Employer in the Plans for Progress Program BETHLEHEM STEEL for Seniors and Graduates in mEcHANICAL, llERONAUTICAL, CHEMICAL, CIVIL (structures oriented), ELECTRICAL. MARINE, CAMPUS a11d METALU.JRGICAL ENGINEERING ENGINEERING MECHANICS, APPLIED MATHEMATICS, CERAMICS, PHYSICS and ENGINEERING Pi1YSICS INTERVIEWS WEDN'ESDf. Y, MAR. 1 u Pratt& Whitney f:lircraft t!IVIS!ON OF UNITRRCRAFT COFlR ·I An Equal Opportunlly Employer il\ppointments should be made in advance through your College Placement Office SPECIALISTS lrl ~· •• POWER FOR PROPULSION-POWER FOR AUXILIARY SYS-TEMS CURRENT UTILIZATIONS INCLUDE AIRCRAFT, MISSILES, SPACE V.ElliCLES, MARINE AND INDUSTRIAL APPLICAT.ION>S, ~ ~ ,, 6 ll' ~ ~~ \ ll II' I\ ft\ \ I Thursda• At I A spe ing LeVI UCLA leading nation, Union < ment th Lew .1. contact wb.en h1 a high Linton Schools. very at Manhatt Lew :f he coul basketb: York p~ scribe t eth. T curence terested science .foreign torial c to be q· Unior on a lirr him a f first til laundry $:25 a Ey n« inated 1 chick h s , .. MAYF AI the TUI THl F I BII (B.S the Cou acti• mo~ Lac: Bun Join Firs a co witl and aty offic for, Our has and (an4 carE rese accc acti E B s·

1967 at the Sat. !I 'No· p,JO,, Ha:Je se. p,m·., •• ·t• ~ ~ l ll Thursday, February 16, 1967 5 . Athletic Department Reveals Connections With Lew Alcindor inside track until the hand of fate played a trick minutes be· fore Lew's announcement. Un, ion realized that if Lew was to come to Union he would exceed the 96% quota of New York State residents allowed in each entering class. By MIKE FUCHS A spectacular secret concern- ing Lew Alcindor, the famous UCLA basketball player and 1l' leading college scorer in the nation, has leaked out of the Union College Ath'etic Depart- ment this past week. \' Lew Alcindor first came into contact with lJnion College when he played in this area as a high school player against , , 1 • Linton and Amsterdam Hi~th ! • Schools. He follnd Schenectady very attractive in contrast to Manhattan, his •home. Lew found out, however, that he could not find the Union basketball scores in the New York papers, so )le had to sub- scribe to the Schenectady Gaz· w ett1l. This was a fortuitous oc- curence for Lew,, who was in- terested in being a political science major, .for he found the \' .foreign policy analysis and edi- torial comment of the Gazette to be quite sorhisticated. Union then decided to go out on a limb for Le-w. They offered him a full scholarship. For the first time in Union's historY, laundry money was included- $:25 a week at Norge Village. Ey now, St. John's was elim- inated because Coach Joe Lap- chick had rt)tired and Lew felt Tlie, PIPEMAN'S SMOME SHOP 262 Saratoga Road MAYFAIR SHOP.PING CENTER ' At the Sign of. ·the Red Neon Pipe TUES. thru SAT.7 to 9 P.M. THURS. and FRI.: 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA, N.Y. Phone 399-1630 Peter :Pause Restaurant 535 Nolt Street 346-9278 FINE FOOD ReasonCJb!e Prices BILL OLDAKOWSKI (B.S. Indt-~ttial Adwin.) of the Bethlehem Steel Loop Course knows where the action is. He's on the move at Olll.\ big, bustling Lackawanna Plant, near Buffalo, N.Y. Join the action. First step: pick up a copy of '\Career-s with Bethlehem Steel and the LoC~p Course\ at your placement office. Then sign up for a cam pus interview. Our 1967 Loop Class has openingsfor techni~l and non-technical graduates (and post-grads) for careers in steel operations, research, sales, mining, accountihg, and other activities. An Equrr.lOpportunity Employer in the Plans for Progress Program BEIH'LEHEM STEEl sETH EHEt.t ST EL that the new coach. at St. John's would not compare to Coach Johnny Wooden of UCLA. Coach Evans was qu.te flattered but began to have second thoughts. He feared Lew would pledge an upper campus house and not go out for basketball his sophomore year. Professor Prosper, an all-American cen- ter at Denver State in his un- dergraduate years, prevailed upon Coach Evans though. He pointed out the economic ad- ·I vantage of havjng Lew here. Lew would definitely draw ca- pacity crowds in Alumni Gym- nas:um for h.is freshman games. The on'y previous time this h&d happened · was the Ketz-McLis- ter heavyweight fight in 1966. By April 1965, the negotia- tions had reached the crucial stages, with !Lew expecting to make his ch()ice any day. Lew had expressed doubt to Coach Evans previous to that about his chances of starting ahead of Fighting Fitz Turner, but Coach Evans assured him that room would !)e made for him, proba- bly at a forward spot. It was 'learned that Union sent two of the more popular campus 'figures to attempt last minute persuasions. Dean Pollock familiarized Lew with the liberal social policy of the school and the advan· tages of being in New York State because of the 18 year o1d -drinking age. Lew inter- ? .e rupted to mention the drug and sex revo:utions at UCLA and Dean Pollock told him that he hoped this would soon be corn- ing to Uniop. Professor Mozly was easily the most impressive and persuasive, as. he enthus- iastically discussed gastropod mollusks with L e w. Both of the men tried to convince Lew of the advantages of Sche- nectady's weather over that of Los Angeles. It seemed that Union had the in his own mind· a:nd' deed. After experiencing hitter dis· appointtment, Lew said, \I a} ways idolized Tom Urbelis and Greg Olson and was really look· ing forward to playing Vlith them.\ A banker today is a lot more than a money specialist, who waits for the community to come to him. He's a well-rounded, imaginative indi- vidual who knows how to present a package of financial services to fill his client's needs. He's professionally involved with every kind of busi- ness, from government to space exploration to prol:)lems of emerging nations. And he can't be pigeonholed because versatility is one of the keys to his success. Before you make your big career decision, take a long look at banking. Ambition is the key, and the best way to check yourself out is to set up a give-:-and-take session with a Chase Manhattan Banker. He has. job status and pride of profession. And his compensation and employee benefits are the envy of many. His traiping is thorough and guided by expe- rienced se'niors who cushion the rough spots and pat him on the high road when he's ready One more thing. Modern banking is in. It asks for versatile , creative, imaginative men- who want to range the community, the nation and the \vhole wide world. Discuss the possibilities oj a career in modern banking. A Chase Manhattan banker wz\ll be on campus soon. Your Placement Office wz'll tell you when and where. ~ .. ...,., THE CHASE MANHATTAN fi3ANK National Associationtl Chase Manhattan Plaza, New York, New York 10015 • Member Federal Depqsit Insurance Corporation An Equal Opportunity ~mployer !' ,. ... I. l > j'; ' .. I' ! I i· r ~ I; it i:\ \' I 'I i I ,.

IRC MERGES \\ Page 3 -Concordy Sports - ·page 4 Cagers Cage Panthers, 84 - 69; What!Js Funny About That? Metz Announces For1nation Of. Varsi.ty Pinball Tea~n. By GARY .PREVOST The Garnet cagers unleashed a devastat- ing fast break midway through the second half and bYried winless Middlebury, 84-69, at the Fieldhouse last night. Tlle victory ended the cagers' losing streak at six and left them with a season's mark of 6-9. Mid- dlebury is 0-16. After a slow-moving start the Dutchmen built an eleven point lead with 2:55 le:£t :in the first half. A spurt by Middlebury cut the lead to five with 40 seconds left and the score at the half was Union 45, lVIiddlcbury 38. :Middlebury cut the Ciarnet lead to four early in the se<'ond half, but then the Gamet began using their superior height to generate a fast break. With Fitz Turner clearing the hoards and Urbelis and Olsen leading the break the Garnet moved to a 66-51 lead with 9:30 remaining. Though the Panthers rallied briefly the Garnet used an effective stall to ice the game. Bill Priscott led the way with Hi points in- cluding 8 of 9 free throws while Warren Mum- ford made his best effort of the season scoring 14 points on seven of ten shots. The story of the game was in the rebounding where Union held a 60-38 advantage as Middlebury outshot the Gar- net from the floor hitting on 28 of 65 ( 43%) against 32 of 77 ( 417r) for the Garnet. North Proves Disastrous A two-day trip to the north country in quest of the ICAC title proved a disaster for the Dutch- men, as they lost to St. Lawrence, 78-77, and Clarkson, 86-72. At St. Lawrence Friday night the Garnet played catch-up ball throttghout the first half, but trailed by only one, 40-39, at inter- mission. The Larries pulled away slowly in the second half grabbing their largest lead of the night, 70-62, with 6:50 left, At this point the Garnet rallied and got to within one at 74-73 with 3:06 remaining. A series of wild exchanges left the score unchanged until St. Lawrence added · a free throw for a 75-73 lead with 56 seconds left. the .game for the Larries who evened their over- all r.ecOJ;d at 7-7 and now only need a victory over .A!Iflied to tie RPI for the ICAC crown. Saturday afternoon at Clarkson. the Garnet showed the effects of two consecutive one-point losse.s and the long bus tnp as they never got un- back:ed against the Golden Knights. · Usmg a pvess, Clar.kson forced the Dutchmen into fifteen .Illi.::>ta:kes and took a 50-36 halftime lead. The second half was really no contest though the Garnet raLlied briefly, cuttmg the Clarkson lead to ten with 3:20 lett, but the final verdict was ne'Ve:r very much in doubt. Clarkson is now 9-5 ovErall and with victones over Alfred and Hobart coi.Jld gam a share of the lCAC title. Jn both games fine foul shooting helped to sin'k the Garnet as st. Lawrence made 22 of 31 an<!' Clarkson 34 of 45. Once again the Garnet dolllinated the boards outrebounuing both tean:.s as F itz Turner played two fine ball games grab- lung 24 rebounds and scoring 23 points. Garnet Play Three ']lle Garnet cagers play three games this week, two at home, in an attempt to ga1n a .500 season. On Saturday .afternoon at 4:00, the Evanstnen ta.ke on a 1-~ Stevens Tech squad. Stevens is led 'by ·6~5 center Ron Hille and ·!)-1 guard Bob Grip- pardi. The cagers travel to RPI on Tuesday for a return engagement. The Engineers downed the Gatnet 69-68 on Tom KelLiher's last second foul shot at the Field House a week ago and the Dutchmen will be looking for revenge. RPI, with a 4-1 lCAC record, has clinched at least a share of the crown and is currently riding an overall five-game win streak. Both Kurt Hollasch and 11om. Kelliher are averaging 18 points per game. The Garnet return to the Fieldhouse next Wed- nesda~· to face a 9-8 Wesleyan squad which has been operating with two separate squads this sea- soli. A junior-senior team led by 5'11\ guard Bob Ryan and 6-3 center John Rainey usually starts the game and is then replaced by a fine so}lh:omore team midway through the first half. Frosh Extend Streak By SIMON McLISTER Din:;dong M2tz, athletic director at Un- ion, l:as announced the formation of an in- tercoEegl:l:te varsity pinball team. The team will begin practicing at 3:30 Monday at the Skeller. · Under the direction of \Flipper\ M:etz, (for, merly 1\tlets), who captained Union's 1923 team and led them to Union's only national champion- ship, the \crack squad\ plays a nine-game sched· ule, including contests with Joe's Midtown Bar, R.P.I., and Embracea,ble U. Ail those interested in trying out for the .team must aver11ge score of 5,000 or better on both machines and must be proficient at left flippper, right fiippepr, and shaking (without tilting). The captain :tor the team will be chosen fvom gradu- ates of flab lab. AD's Ca/Jed \Pros\ Speaking of the upcoming season, :Metz said, \I expect strong efforts from freshman inde- pendents, sen.or psychology majors, and brothers of Alpha Delta Phi.\ Certain students all over campus have complained that brothers of A D .Phi should be ineligible and ruled professionals since they have the advantage of four machines behind their bar, which get much use when the beer runs out. Commenting on this accusation, brother Barry Last said that all funds from machine usage have been donated to the brotherhood's favorite char- ity, Alcoholics Anonymous. Jeff Jones, of Phi Delta Theta, star of last year's intramural teams, had the highest three game average last season and will probably be elected team captain. 'Tilt\ Injured Sophomore \Tilt\ Coin has sustained an in- jury to his left thumb and will be unable to com- pete for most of the season. I.J.J.I., former jock (disc) and winner of the least loquacious award and the Athletic Pinball Scholarship, set the all time collegiate record in intramural competition last year with a score of 720,931, playing 6969 ball for only one dime. The Garnet then w.orked for a good shot but Ol- son':s jumper and four taps were off the mark with 30 seconds left. Then Derrick in attempting to clear the ball to Urbelis threw it across the midcourt line un the short court for a backcourt violation. Tom Szczech. who came off the bench to score 20 points, added two free throws and Jerry Metcalf one in the last few seconds to ice The frosh cagers extended their win streak to ftve games with a come from behind 69-55 win over N.Iiddlebury last night. The little Dutchmen playEd a poor first half and Middlebury shot well to gain a 3·-1:-30 lead. Midway through the second ha:lf, a spurt led by Jim Getman and Craig Carl- soll opened up a fourteen point Iead, and the ca~n·s coasted to victory. Coach Metz yells instructions to his pinballers as capacity Skeller crowd goes wild during Gornet victory over highly touted N.Y.A.C. team. ~11 practice is of course subsidized by the ath- letic department to the tune of 1.5 mills per game. Maintenance credit is given for pinball playing only during specified maintenance peri- ods during the day. Cassius Contes; Is He Too Late? By BUBONIC BALTIMORE, MD. It was announced today by Juan R. Piston III, :adlllissions di- rector that Cassius Marcellus Clay has been accepted into the class of 1971. He will receive an athletic scholarship althollgh Killfred Wetz, Union's athletic director, commented that Clay will be on medical maintenance because of his mental health. · Clay will major in public spealdng and will take C()Urses from the Dean of Students, 0. E. Pflack. When asked to co-m111ent on his new tutelage, Pflack said, \l think this to be a wonderful oppor- tunity to teach someone to say something substantial. I hope Mr. Clay will make me his example.\ Clay will reside in North College since he will need all the room he can get for his entourage of Muslin aids. Clay will receive a 2-S deferment from the draft and thus will be able to further his education without any grief. Harold C. Mortician, President of Union, said that be feels that Clay will do wonders for the school's image in Ne~ York City's Harlem district. He also said that the college will ~oon accept George Lincoln Rockwell as a foreign exchange student. t tWTtifTTTt'Yf tYtfYfffi' DIAMA.NTE'S Enjoy Our Fi11e Home Cooked Italian Food in Our Comfortable ()inning Room Opp, The Brownell Gate on Nott !itreet Open Daily I 0 to I A.M_ Sundays 5 P.M. to I A.M. Reduced Dry Cleaning Rates For Union CoUege Students Union Jackets Pants Suits Sweaters Sportcoats Jackets $2.00 .49 .98 1.00 .75 1.50 ZUCKERMAN CLEANERS & DYERS, Inc. Coniact: JACK ETKIN - CHI PSI - 346-9829 Campus Agent for Zuckerman ~For three Generations.' Those Who Know Have been \ecommending - HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER: ~lauriue B. Graubart & Sons ~\3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'• 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY t ¥ t 9 # t + ¥ t t ¥ f i V' t t f V f i t Y t i f fit f Y t t f t T t T i f f f t f f i f Y 'f Y Y f 'f'·T T f 9 t ; i' T f t f T t i\ Y Y t Garnet gridmen get a head start on other students in prepara- tion for Winter Weekend. Con- ditioning counts. Announcements All battery candidates for var- sity baseball should report to Mr. Lawrence's office in the gym at 1 P.M. on Monday, Feb. 20. A faculty-student game for the benefit of the Cantpus Cl1est will be played this Saturday afternoon at 2:30 in the Fieldhouse preced· ing the varsity game against Stevens. A donation of fifty cents will be requested. The wrestling match against St. Law- renc.e will begin at 1 :00. Jay Jewelry Co. 315 STATE STREET :JJiamon~ ... Purchased in Befgium and Imported ,·. for Your Savings. Eliminate the lmporte.r and Wholesaler. Arnold Fisher '50 • ................... .. .. + •• A ...... + \ .... A + • 4 • l .• + • + + ' + + • A • + ••• * ' •• ~ • .4 A • ' ..... .L ' 4 ..i-Al FUGAZV TRAVEL BUREAU One of America's Oldest and Largest Travel Bureaus Est. 1870 Announces the Opening of its SCHENECTADY BRANCH 434 STATE ST. Phillips Bldg. 374-4111 Serving Vnion For 33 Years '· Sll VER DINER of Sche·nectady ERIE BOULEVARD 6 A.M. • 11 P.M. 346-9522 Excellent Food and Informal Atmosphere ALL WINTER MERCHANDISE ~Price THE ~quirr ~f1np ; •• i I 'I I •· • ,. I • l FrE s, Er Vol. '96 -·flo Cou To j By I An attem] stud'ents to support for Fair Franchi at the ·counc: Alan Zieg tion at the council to objective of in New Yor on .the reso: St• Some of' that the cou on such rna' without first ion. Prop• countered h lutions wer councils of 1 lyn Colleg· worked wit student sig be sent th1 for the loW4 ,proponents council toe passing the Michael Myron Fri drive of th inferred at council me' ways have get their c every issue The Stlu resent the student bo legislators both for t and for th• ents.\ After th witz asked on the iss1 lution. ThE council me lution by vote, hov moved to the motior On Frid~ there willl for all stuc mittees' ol then be < dent body sufficient committee' ing about council su also be se In othe Draper, re shop, preE Dr. Carl Union co· has been 1 trustees tc fesorship terature. Presider ing the an was aware of his oL and his sc Dean 'I that \An a distingu ulty withil the intent the higbeE ment.\ J 8 chairs, ently vaca The pre in _1948 b memory o erend Tho eritus Ha: held the t: Niemeyc \one of c officially : Lamont P: of the tru without te He was masters d of Kansas

Un- in- The (for, pion- Bar, both The said, over Phi beer have last y be in· com- jock all 6969 ath- per peri- a us ; . ' I 'I • .I r J I l Free Exam Sclledule Enclmsed Vol. '96 -No. lll Founded at Union College 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1967 Lockwood On Teaching Page 3 PRICE 1 5 CENTS Council Tables Motion .. To Lower Voting Age Chad and Jeretny F.ail To Appear; Weekend Concert Cancelled By BRIA:N HOLLEY An attempt by- a group of Union stud'ents to .gai1.1 Student Council support for the objectives of the Fair Franchise Coltlmittee was tabled at the ·Council meEting Tuesday night. Alan 'Ziegler- introduced a resolu- tion at the moeet·ing calling on the council to endor-se the committee's objective of lo'Wer.ing the voting age in New York to 18:. Heated debate on .the resolutior:t followed. Studenf Opinion? Some of the eo\l.nciL members felt that the council had no right to speak on such matters for the student body without first getting the .student opin- ion. Proponents of the resolution countered hy s.aying that similar reso- lutions were ]Ja:ssed by the student councils of Hunter College and Brook- lyn College. 'I'hen these councils worked with the F.F.C. to help get student signatur-es on a petition to be sent the s.tate legislature calling for the lower votin.g age. In this case, ,proponents con'tended, the student council took tlu initiative in first passing the resdution. Michael Le-vin:Epstein, who with :Myron Fribush,. heads the Union drive of the F.F'.C., said that \it was inferred at the meeting by student council members tllat they do not al- ways have to g:o· t() the students to get their opini()ns before a vote on every issue. The Studen.t Council members re- resent thems.elves as well as the student body, Lu the same way that legislators in American politics ~ote both for their own personal beliefs and for the beliefs of their constitu- ents.\ After the ciSCli.SSion, Larry Pedo- witz asked for a:n informal straw vote on the issue of supporting the reso- lution. The straw vote revealed that council members s11pported the reso- lution by a 2-I !llargin. After the vote however,. rady Aronstarnm mov~d to table the resolution, and the motion ~as:sed. Petition On Friday February 24 at 4:30 p.m., there will be :~· m~eting in Hale House for all students in support of the com- mittees' objedi ves. A petition will then be circuLated among the stu- dent body in hopEs of demonstrating sufficient student support for the committee's e>bj~ctive, and thus bring- ing about tlle sijbsequen~ . stude!lt council supped;, The petition Will also be sent to the state legislature. In other ·C:otmcil business, Steve Draper, representing the Film Work- shop, presented a proposed charter I) eemeyer Dr. Carl Niemeyer, chairman of the Union College English Department, has been narneu by Uni<Hl's board of trustees to the Thomas Lamont Pro- fesorship in ancient and modern li- terature. President Harold C. Martin, in mak- ing the announcement, said the hon!!r was awarded Niemeyer oli the basiS of his outstanding teaching ability and his scholarly activities. Dean The()d<JrE Lockwood stated that \An endoV!ed' chair is given to a distinguish.ed. rnember of the fac- ulty within a given disipline and it is the intent of tlle donor that this be the highest honor within the depart· rnent.\ At tlle college ther• are 8 chairs, sever~! of which are pres- ently vacant. The professa;rsbip was establish~d in 1948 by \Tliornas Lamont, Jr., m me-mory of his father, the First Rev- erend Thomas Lamont. Professor Em- eritus Harold W. Blodgett f-ormerly held the title. Niemeyer, ))taised by Martin as \one of our ~Ieatest teachers,\ will officially asst.une the title of Thol!las Lamont ProfEssor July 1st. By actwn of the trusteEs. ile will hold the title without tern; He was aw:~rderl both bachelors and masters degr-ees :from the University of Kansas and received another mas· for the newest campus activity and asked for the council's approval. After some debate, the charter was ap- proved. Frank McKim proposed an amende ment to the council's by-laws which would abolish the need for emergency motions. Under the new proposal, all motions would be voted upon imme- ·diately u.nless one-third of those mem- bers present and voting choose to table the motion. Under the present .system, a motion is automatically tabled unless it is made an emerg- Continued on Page 2 ·---------~------ New Members Design.ated By Sigma Xi .The Union College chapter of Sigma Xi, the scientific and engineering honor society, elected four men .to full membership and thirty-two to associate membership this past Thurs~ day, February 16. Under the new criteria for election established three years ago, a stu- dent must show marked aptitude for research in pure or applied science to be eligible for election to associate membership. To be elected or pro- moted to full membership, one must have shown noteworthy achievement as an original investigator in some field of science. Purpose Edward Craig, Union's Sigma Xi secretary, explained that the purpose of the society, founded at Cornell University in 1886, is for the \encour- agement of original investigation in sCience, pure and applied.\ Eligibility for election to associate membership is now based solely on undergraduate research, which .ffiust appear in the form of a written re- :port submitted by Commence!llent Day. Professor Craig noted that \it must be understood that election to associate membership is no longer dependent on marks or grade in- dicies.\ Those elected to full membership are: Milton Dayton Bloomer, E.E.; John A. Findlay, M.E.; Twitty J. Styles, faculty, Biology; Richard John Wolff, E.E. Those elected to associate member· ship are: Elwyn S. Baker, C.E.; Allan Rich- ard Bernstein, Ch.; Laurence G. Bil• sky, BioL; Sister Rita Boggs, Chelll.; Continued on Page 2 By ALl\.N KLEIN Take one sick Chad Stuart; sub- tract one Jeremy Clyde, remove from Union College, Winter Weekend; the result is a lot of disappointment. The above recipe was carried out .to the letter last weekend here at Union. Those .disappointed may receive re- funds for tickets to the concert at the student activities office this week and next. As of Wednesday night, 367 tickets had been exchanged. Pro- grams are being distributed. Marty Pinson, chairman of the Stu- dent Tax Committee, estimated that the Freshman Class will lose two to three hundred dollars on the week- end. This will be absorbed by the Tax Committee. John Osgood, President of the Freshman Class, in an interview with Concordiensis Monday explained how it happened. Jeremy Phoned Friday morning, Dean 0. Edward Pollock received a telephone call from the William Morris Agency in New York telling him that Chad Stuart was ill and would not be able to perform Saturday night. Pollock, in a separate interview, revealed that he received two calls- one from the agent and another from Jeremy Clyde. Clyde told the Dean that his partner was \flat on his back\ and \unable to stand.\ He also apolo- gized to the students here for being unable to come. Clyde also expressed the hope that the group would be able to perform at Union sometime in the future. He said that the grollP had \no objec- tion\ to singing at Union. Escape Clause Chad and Jeremy were protected by a clause in their contract which exempts them from responsibility for failure to appear caused by circum· stances beyond their control. Sick- ness is clearly considered such a circumstance. Upon receipt of this notice a committee including Osgood and Larry Pedowitz, non-voting x;nem- ber of the Student Tax Committee, INDICES The office of the Registrar ha. announced the class indices Class of 1970, 2.38; Class of 1969, 2.29; Class of 1968; 2.51: Class of 1967, 2.80. The freshmen had 92 on the Dean's list; the sophomores had 106i the juniors, 100; and the semors 137. Six members of the Class of 1970 had 4.0 indices, five members of the Class of 1969, twelve from the Class of 1968 and nineteen ' · from the Class of 1967. Earns Academic Award Professor Carl Niemeyer, newly chosen lamont Professor of Literature. ters degree, as well as his Ph.D., fmm Harvard University. Niemeyer ended the war in Ger- many as a member of an Army Intel- ligence Documents team. Discharged from the Army in 1945 he joined the Union faculty in the fall of 1946 as an associate professor of English. St. Andrew's Exchange During the year of 195H2, he was Union's exchange professor to St. Andrews University i n Scotland, where he presented the first course of lectures in American literatu.re ever offered by that instiution. Two years later, in 1954, he was named a full professor at U?-ion, becqming •chairman of the Enghsh Department in 1963 .. :, ... An active writel, editor and trans- lator lle edited a :magazine at Grin- nell 'College, translated· for publica- tion some of the Rainer Maria Rilke's pro~e and contributed !'lrt~cles to a variety of sc'holarly penod1cals. He is co-editor, along with fellow Union Professor William M. Murphy, of a book of fresbman readings pub lished in 1952 called \Challanges to Thought.\ His activities include memberships in Phi Beta Kappa, the Modern Lan- guage Association of America and the American Association of University Professors. began a last-minute effol± .to obtain entertainment for the coniCert. Early Friday afternoon, tl1ey- were able to obtain an act ·caHed The As- sociation from the American Booking Corporation. An oral agre.eJnent was reached, .and a telegram .... as sent to confirm it. Such an agreement is not binding on either party. Second Cancefation However, at about 5:30 Fr-iday aft. ernoon the committee was inf<Jrmed by the American Booking Corpe>ration that the difficulties inv-olvEd in mov- ing The Association\\s equipment would prevent their coming; to per- form. Pollock stated that Tae A.ssocia· tion's scheduled appea.ranc~ at RPI on :March 4 and 5 might have e:ntered into their decision not to C()Jlle. At this point the searcn f<Or talent was given up. None of the agencies involved are open on Saturday. Ironically ,the freshmaru Class had tried to get The Association f<»r Wii1- ter Weekend but had to settle for Chad and Jeremy. Earlier the William Morris Agency had offered the Happenin_gs and the Luv to Union for the weekend, but the .freshman class thought it unwise to hir-e these groups. P()Uock said that he could not re- !T'.ern:her any similar incidents at Uni<011. P()llock dismissed as \so much gar. bagE'' reports that the concert was cancelled to .enable Jeremy to tal{e a triJ> to Hawaii. He explained, \He wottld have made enough here to take himself to Hawaii, if that's what he wanted.\ H:e added: \l have no reason to be- lieve that it's anything other than ill- ness. If it were anything else, we cou]d sue them for breach of contract and wouldn't hesitate to do so.\ In the case of breach of contract, the college could also inform the American Association of College Unions, which could blacklist t)le group involved. Neither Pollock nor Osgood could suggest any way to avoid similar in- cidents in the future. Osgood con- tended that \It's a risk that we have to take.\ Arab Dip lotnat Condetnns Zionists For Militarisn~ :By RICHARD PATTER~()N • .Tit. \British Foreign Polic::v cetrainly made a tremendous contribution to this mess, but the basis of tll.e conflict is the Zionist movement itsElf-\ This is the way Mr. Mahmoud El-O:k Dah, of the Arab States Delegation in New York, explained the Arab-Isr-aeli Con- flict at a meeting of the Unhn-Skid- more International Relll!tions Club last Tuesday in Hale Hoase .. Mr. El-Ok Dab cited what he called \confused British policy\ during and after World War I as the originator of the situation which led to the Arab-Israeli conflict. Fie saitl that in 1914 Jews comprised only abe>ut five percent of the population of the area of Palestine. The remainder of the population was predomin a!ltly Arab . BallotJr Declaratiorw In 1917, Lord Balfour, the British foreign minister, in a let;ter to Lord Rothschild, a leader of thE tn()-vement to establish a Jewish Staie in Pales- ~HHl, • promised England~s help i1 .. creating a national home for- the Jews in the area of Palestine. Tills. letter, which came to be kn()wn as the Bal- four Declaration, said tllis promise was made on the conditiiol'l. that the rights of the inhabitants of the area (who were mostly Arabs) 'iiVould not be harmed. Meanwhile, in an agreement with the Arabs in the Ottoman Empire, England promised that if tbey would revolt against their Turltish Rulers, they would get a separatE Arab state in the Arab part of ihe Empire · (which included Palestin_e). At the same time, the British, ::Fr-e1tch, and Russians secretly agreed to di-vide up the empire among thens~lves after the war was won. Englancl And France Blamed After the war, Mr. El-OkDah said, the Allied promises to tile Arabs, who had fought on the Allied side, were forgotten. At Versai1l~s. England and France divided the A..rab world between themselves and controlled it by force. They permitted tnass im- migration of Jews into tree area of Palestine and prevente!l the Arabs from effectively resisting tltis inva- sion. This action, and th~ secret deals leading up to it, was outde in the face of President Wils~n's call, ac- cepted on the surfacE boy the allies, for the right of natbnal s-elf-determ- ination for all countries_ Throughout his address, :Mr. El· OkDah repeatedly pointecl out that Arabs were deprivecl o'f their land (first by the allies and tlun by the Jews) and their rights with<Jut con- sultation or their consent. lfe said that after World War I -when France and Britain took controL oi Palestine and the other Arab parts of the Otto· man Empire, the great 111ass ,of Jew- ish immigration bEgall and the \trouble\ really began. '\When a man immigrates to the U.S., be accepts, and wishes to become II part of, the IRC speaker, M. Ei-Ok Dah, talk$ before Union and Skidmore students at Hcle House Student Lounge. eldsting order. But Jewish immigrants to Palestine came with the idea of dispossessing the Arab inhabitants and establishing a Jewish state,\ he said. One Mi/Jion Arabs After World War II, Britain turned her control of Palestine over to the United Nations. It later voted to es- tablish the Jewish national state in Palestine. During this time, Zionist gr~llPS were already using terrorist mEthods to drive Arabs from the land so that the Jewish state could be es- tablished, Mr. El-OkDah contended. With the establishment of Israel, one million Arabs, driven out by Jewish te:rrorists, became refugees from their homeland. He further critized Israel by pointing out that in \every single year' since 1948, the United Nations GEneral Assembly has passed a reso- lation asked Israel to repatriate or c<lmpensate Arab refugees. This she has refused to do. While she says she cannot accept Arab repatriots, she goes all over the world searching for Jews to immigrate to her country.\ He cited this as evidence that the Jews had founded a state on ethnic and religious grounds. He completely re- jected the validity of establishing a national state on these bases. On March 6 the Union-Skidmore LR. C. will present a speaker from the Israeli Delegation to tbe U.N. who will give Israeli views on the Arab-Israeli conflict.

2 Council • • • Continued from Page 1 ency motion by a two-thirds vote. System Inadequate Robert Winner, chairman of the committee on the Constitution and By-Laws, stated that the present sys- tem \wastes a lot of time and does not serve its purpose.\ The opinion of his committee was that the \preseBt system just seems inadequate.\ The motion was passed and the rule went into effect immediately. Mr. Winner also stated that an- other amendment will be proposed at the next meeting to provide for a vice-president to fill the ()f.fice of council president should a vacancy occur. Sigma Xi 8 • • Moving Finger To Join Pegasus The Moving Finger is planning sev- eral activities and a contest during the next few weeks. The week after next, date to be announced, The Mov- ing Finger will hold a joint meeting with Skidmore's Pegasus. Cars will be going up after dinner. Anyone wanting a ride should call 377-2370 in the .evening. Four speakers are coming to The Moving Finger during the next mes- ter. Among them is Howard Neme- rov, professor of literature at Brand- eis University, whose schedule for this month forced him to cancel the original date for his talk at Union. He had planned to speak here this week. Thursday, february 23, 1967 Registration The following courses have been added to the offering for the spring term: Comp Ed 36 - The International \ Economy in Historical Perspec- · tive (1960-1966). Option in Cen- ter I. Engineering 02 - Fortran Program- '' · min g. Biology 51 -- Ecology The following courses have been de· \' leted from the spring offering: Comp Ed 51 - Conservation and Degradation of Energy, Comp Ed 59 - The Physics, \ Physiology and Art of Music. Philosophy 10- Introduction to Philosophy. Biology 50 - Evolutionary Bio- ~~ ~ Chemistry 50 - Colloidal and ' j• Thur.sday, FE By Dl The 1966 Magazine cc fernal: Beir ,. to the Neth undegradua1 terly bleak : the adminis of Tenurea ~ Writing fro verse whet'€ alike, has s coolness wh 11 ing the stat not achieve For there ~ ticles on th val attitude illogicality c taken: colle ,. good teachi: at least sor: the doctora to assume 1 Polymer Chemistry. • j ~ or unmi-nd:f Continued from Page 1 James Alan Cebik, Phys.; Vincent Di Cocco, M.E.; Munir El-Far, Phys.; Ware D. Fuller, M .. E.; Lee R. Gard- iner, M.E.; Dennis S. Gordon, Science. The Moving Finger regrets that it cannot sponsor the planned trip to New York to see Ulysses, the movie based on Joyce's novel of the same name. The movie is being shown dur- ing exam week. Union students donating blood ot last weeks Red Cross Drive. Unfortunately Union didn't bleed enough: since the drive gained on'ly 171 pints Engineering 25 - Analytical Mechanics I. The following courses are closed to further registrations: j · The cone 1 Good colleg on the qual of salary it Also elected to associate member- ship are: Paul H. Hoffenberg, Phys.; Peter B. A contest for the best logo wHl be held till the end of this mester. A logo is an easily recognizable symbol like the Esso sign or the Union Col- lege seal. Art work should be sub- mitted to Marc Reubins, in care of the Student Activities Office. Blood Drive Coagulates William W archolik, a. captain in the Arnold Air Force Society termed last week's blood drive \a .failure.\ Only In .pints of blood were obtained this year, as compared with the 205 pints received last year, in a similar function. Economics 10 - Elementary Economics, Part I Economics II - Elementary Economics, Part II · Economics 25 - Principles of Accounting. '' \' courage it chairmen p which a ma his .profess: nual evalm ness of the many of u~ 1 · means avai Juhl, M.E.; Andrew C. Kadak, M.E.; Morton A. Kamzan, Biol..; Gary J. Levens, Science; James C. Leyhane, Science; William P. Liebewitz, Phys.; Alan D. Maddaus, M.E.; Wayne G. Malary, C.E.; Wolfgang C. Mayer, Physics. . Any idolators wishing to lead other idolators in idolatry should apply for the positions of editor and business manager of the IDOL. Applications can be obtained from the Student Activity Office. The deadline is February 27. When asked where the blood is sent, Warcholik said: \The blood goes to the Red Cross, who di~tributes it to hospitals .in this area that need it.\ He further eo~mented that srnce this area might have all the blood it needs, some may be slupped to Rochester, where the bloodmobile came from. Economics 34 - Financial Analysis. Chemistry 4B - Radiochemistry '' Psychology 30 - Theory of Personality. Psychology 35 - Organizational Psychology. ~ ity since fa to sit in 01 all their u: judgements College is In addition: Michael J. Montes1, Phys.; Brian H. Nagamatsu, M.E.; Dominic L. Poccia, Chern.; Stanley C. Rogers, E .. E.; J cfl'rcy C. Savitsky, Psych.; Peter J. Sheridan, Phys.; Gary A. Sisson. M.E.; Joseph J. Smaldino, Bio.: Charles N. Stewart, Jr., Phys.; Peter K. Stock, E.E.; ~dgar W. Travis, Phys.; and Constantine S. Vrissimdjis, E.E. Return Doubtful Since the bloodmobile must travel from Rochester it is doubtful whether another drive will be held next year because of this year's poor turnout. Any student who gave blood this time is entitled to all the blood he needs in the coming year. A keg of beer was offered to the :fraternity or living unit wnich donated the most blood. 'The winner '\Vas Phi Gamma Delta. Although Wa.rcholik did not know the exact number of members that gave blood he estimated that 95% of the fraternity donated. ' ., '~' the classro SPECIAL~ NOTICE: Comp Ed 34- Problems and Methods of Economics - is not open to students who have ~ had Economics 10 or 11 or old Eco- onomics 21 or 22 or an cquivalen1 course at another college, Sumrnary cisions are a relatiVel:V assembling ing, schola: unlimited f Founders' Day Ceremonies Honor First U. of Michigan President <\ to overcom alumni, fac like other labeled am With equ many com inimical tc version of this argum leges will the propon Todav Union College marked the beginnin_g of its 't73 vear of operation. Concurrently, 1t joined with ·the University o£ Michigan in mark· ing its 150th anniversary, as Henry P .. Ta_ppa~, an 1825 Union graduate who was also Mtch,Igan s first president, was honored at Founders Day ceremonies. Speaking today in :VIcmorial Chap~! ~ere Har- lan Hatcher current presid('nt of Michigan, and Kenneth T. 'noran. associate ex('~utiv~ dean ,for two-year colleges at the State Umversity of New \\!ork. ' The annual Fuumh:r~· Da~ convocation at Union celebrates the anniv<ersary of the. college charter, issued February 25, 1795.. Umon was the first college chartered by the New York State Board of Regents. HatC'h<'r ct<'liVPr<'rl an address on \New Dimen- sions in Graduat<' to:ducation,\ w!-:1le Duran pr~­ sented a biographical paper on I appan and his career. During toda;)·'s ceremonies, H~t~her was pre- sented ail honorary Doctor of C1VI~ Law degree by Union President Harold C. Martm. Michigan President Hatcher became Michigan's eighth p~csid~nt in the fall of 1951. He joined the pmvcrstty of Michigan from Ohio State University. where. he had been a faculty member since 1922 and 3; VICe- president since 1948. He also earned all h1s d!'l- grees, from bachelors through doctors; from Ohto State. Under his leadership, enrollment at Michigan has more than doubled from 17,000 in 1951 to a 1966-67 figure of approximatelf 37,000 .. Re~earch expenditures during the penod have cll.m!Jed from $6 mililon <to a 1966 total of $52 rrulllon. Active in education internationally, Hatcher was president of the Association of Amer~can Universities and in 1965 headed the American delegation to the Tokyo conf~renc.e. of the Inter- national Association of t:mvers1ttes. He has headed Ford Foundation study missions to both the Soviet Union and South America. Albany Graduate Doran was appointed to .the _cen~ral adminis· trative staff of the State Umverstty m 196~, aft~r having served eight years as an assoctate m higher education with the New York State Educa· tion Department. After earning a bachelor of science degree from the University at Albany, he enrolled at Syracuse University where he was awarded both master's and doctor's degrees in education. His doctoral dissertation dealt with the subject of two-year colleges, and he has since authored and co-authored a variety of articles on the two-year college. Doran is currently president of the State Uni- versity at Albany's alumni association and is a director of the University's Central Administra- tion Chapter, Civil Service Employees Asociation. '\ Supporter of University Tappan, whom the ceremonies honored, was born in Rhinebeck, N. Y., in 1805 and graduated from Union 20 years later. His most influential book \University Education,\ argued for the instahation of an . American university system similar to that of Germany, rather than the English system. Due in some measure to Tappan's influence and example, the German university did become the prevailing model for the developing American institutions. Another one of his stands, for an American institution similar to the German gym- nasium between school and university is thought by some to have been influential in the start of American junior colleges. The University of Michigan's rise to greatness is eonsidcred to have begun with Tappan's in- :-:tallation as the University's first president in December, 1852. He resigned his post 11 years later, and died in Switzerland in 1881. Harlan Hatcher, Pres. of the University of Michi- g.an, was today's speaker at Memorial Chapel. Newman Club Mixer The Newman Club will spons()r a milcer at Albany State on Friday, February 24. A bus will leave memorial Chapel at 7:30 p.m. Those attending should wear coat and tie. The rni:xer is free for Newman members, and non-members will be charged one dollar. Financial Aid Applications for all types of financial aid in 1967-68 will be available beginnh1g Wednesday, March 1, 1967, at the Student Aid Office, first floor, ,Old Gym HallJ between the hours of 9:00 a.m. till noon, and rrom 1:30 p.m. to 4:()0 p.m., Monday through Friday. Completed applications must be returned not later than May 1. Since a Parents' Confiden- tial Statement must be furnished, it is advisable to secure the necessary papers Pfior to leaving for rec~ss and to take them home to parents at that time. These U.S.Air Force officers are getting what they want out of life. You can be one of them. What are they doing? They are performing a job of importar~ce. Hour after hour. Year after year. Many of them will serve for 20 or more years. The fruitful part of a man's life. Will yours be fruitful and creative? Or just spent? You're going to college to do something constructive, important. And you can besure of it, in the U.S. Air Force. Start now in the Air Foree ROTC program on your campus. Your Professor of Aero- space Studies will explain the variety of career opportunities. Pilot. Navigator. Engi- neering. S~ience. Administration. li you get in on it~ you get paid to be part of the most exeiting technological break- throughs of all time. You'll become a leader, an officer in one of America's most vital organizations ... the U. S. Air Force. You can be part ·Of the Aerospace Age when things are most exciting ... at the begin- ning. While you serve your country, the whole universe will open up to you. There's a 2-year Air Force ROTC program, and the 4-year program has new attractive scholarship provisions. Lots of meR waste their working years. But you don't have to be one of them. r-----~~---~-~-----~ : UNITED STATES AIR FORb.!! j Box A, Dept. RCP-72 .. l Randolph Air Force Base, Texas 78148 1 I I I NAME I I (please print) I I COLLEGE CLASS I I I I I I ADDRESS I I I I CITY STATE. ZIP I L------------------~ best teach€ can so tl:.a' • i \ the e.l(.perit \ contact ho. I ment. Another ., 1 ~· !ish or pc~ • ! . I know of this cr iter i would caut. explanatior. scholarshii:i derstat;d tl takes a rt must lt:ad t • ' · ' either muh sponsibilil!• twn. lt •~> intere:-ted •' his enthus1 ! . to his teac ,,, ! ·~· l \ I *! (' ,,\ . (• 1 ' . ' ,. ,, l Research lege sets a! fessional a students IJ formed abc ferently, tl ceptive. Tl is changin

196? Thur.sday, February 23, \1967 \' been II; spring i \ Cen· .. ··LockWood: On Faculty Quality, Tenure, and Ph.D's \' By DEAN THEODORE LOCKWOOD neglec~s rea<;l}ng ~nd reflecting upon hisfield will does not demand of these teachers that they the absence of this kind -of turnover but the The 1966 winter issue of The Jolms Hopkins soon. d~sappomt hls students. The students them- also turn out research papers while they are presence of able students, a reasonable teaching Magazine contains an article entitled \The In- se,ve.s J;tav~}ew gr(nmds from which to ascertain finishing the doctorate; obviously completion of Toad (and under the new calendar Union now has fernal: Being an Account of a Strange Journey the rel~ablhty and relevance of what is taught; a thesis can be research in the best sense of the a teaching schedule that is competitive), stimu- ,. to the Netherworld of Academic Sinners.\ The OIJ.lY later can students determine whether they word. Jating colleagues, encouragement to scholarship, undegradua~es. occupy timbo; t!:Ie lowest pit, ut· received a good education il)- this ~ens~. Moreover, Fortunately Union College is able to attract a good salary ~cale, and con~enial surrounding~. terly bleak m 1ts frozen aspect, lS the residence of the faculty member who .Is active m research, good scholar-teachers, even though the compe- The adadem1c world has Its problems, . but It the administrators - !ar b~yond the Gr.e~t Wall h?wever .mod~st the proJect, will undoubte~~y tition from university cente~s is ;truly farmidable. !s not yet infernal, inverted univer~e .. Teach- of Tenure and the varwus circles t:vod by faculty. d~scuss w1th h~s coliE::agues the accuracy and sig- That the College seeks prnnar1ly younger men 1ng has not been forgotten, and admm1strators ~ Writing from the depth of this Dantesque uni- mficance ~f his findmgs - yet another way to should shock no one: they bring the latest scholar· have not cold'ly weighed publications to deter· verse whe1·e presumably all blood, young and old ~eep t~e lJ?.tellectual sharpn~ss that he tries to ship from university departments and we hope mlne to which circle to relegate faculty. Rather, alike has stopped running I hope to attain tha mduce m his own students. FmaUy, from my con- that they mav one day become distinguished the public has been prone to concoct strange ac- coolness which John Fisch~r and others lament- versations w!th Union .graduates, I sense that they senior professors. Only infrequently is it .possib!e counts based upon at best a short journey through de· \· ~ ing the state of American college faculties have have .appre<;Jated these ,Professors who displayed to lure .away an excellent senior professor from the groves ef Academe. Those who describe a not achieved. ~uch en~husu1:sm for the~r own work. This quality another institution. Nevertheeless, the College I~etherworld appear to credit their judgements to ;Impassioned 1s especially l.nwortant :n a college which streses has been .seeking since late fall, for instance, a with infallibility; no one of those who are sup- For there has been a spate of impassioned ar- the opportumtles for Independent study. senior man in phHosor-hy so as to strengthen .posed to inhabit it have such assurance. \ ~ ticles on the pmmiscuity of research, the :p1edie- Union College· has· an obligation to its students that important department. . ____ _ val attitude of the graduate schools, and the and the academic community to encourage re- Unreality illogicality of dearis. Much of the criticism is well search which can be fruitfully carried on within In all discussions on teaching there ·tends to Skidmore: taken: colleges 1 nust finO. new ways to encourage the. resources which. are available. Si,milarly, be an air of unreality .. On the one hand, criticism Bio· tJ l\ good teaching, and graduate sclwols should revise Umon College shou'ld seek a faculty which rep- c0nccntrates on a few cases and erects insecure at least some of the criteria acc 0 rding to which resents the highest scholarship -..yhich we may genera~izations; on the other hand, official policy Writing Seminar: and the doctorate is either given or· withlleld. Yet, reasonably expE)ct to attract to th1s campus. statements set forth an ideal which is not realiz· to assume that the academic community is rigid Of course, there is no assurance that the holder ab~e in al\ cases. EspeciaFy unfortunate is the or unmindful is both incorrect and misleading. of a PhD. will outshine the man. with~)Ut one. suggestion that any changes ·in staff rep:vesent a . • i ~ The -cenclusi<Jn is incorrect in severai respects. However, to assume t11at the Ph.D. IS a hmdrance decline. It is well to recognize that Union Col· Game Called Trivia to of Good colleges withQut e;xception put highest va:ue to good teaching is absurd. A young instructor lege, for example will normally have at least on the quality of teaching, and the merit system who h~s talent an~ ambition should get hi~ Ph.D. twenty new faculty members each year. On the of salary increases is designed specifically to en- as rap1~ly as poss~ble so as to enhance his own average four rr.en retire each year; ten facu!ty ,, \' courage it In seeking new professo:rsdepartment professional standmg and advancement. After or more may go on sabbatical for the full year· chairmen pay special attention to the .reputation all, the process of acquiring it strengthens rather additions to the staff for graduate and under: which a man has made in the classroom, not just than debilitates his academic skiHs. For that rea· graduate instruction will nllmber three or four; his .pr 0 fessional standing as a scholar.-. The an- son Union· College encourages younger men to and inevitably three or four of the 120 faculty f · .. <J nual evaluation process emphasizes the effective finish up their dissertations and, if necessary, to will resign or return to graduate study. What ness of the instructor as a teacher, ·even though return to graduate school to do so. The College makes an institution attractive to faculty is not many of us wish that there were more effective means available by which to judge teacl:ling abH- Jazz Concert: n:. 7 :\:::t ., By DON AEOOD \' ity since faculty so seldom invite their colleagues e• to sit in on classes and since student polls, for all their usefulness, still reflect quite imperfect ~~Cool School'' To Avante Garde Writers' conterences are great sideshows for peOJ:.Iltl wnose KnOWH:~uge ot uterature cons1sts of 11a:.~ages rememoerea .1.10m tne r,ew YorK T1mes uool( • evww <ma wr S!Hnsters aJ.ready puiJusned or wa•tmg to oe vuousnea 1n oacKwooas news, pa.(Jt::lb • .DIAL I01· l.Ut: W!Ht:l i:IUU al!JU!U:! SCHUUiiilY mtt::restea m what the man has to say, better tney ta1K over a oeer m a bar, and preteral>iY not aoollL wnung, ana tne cnances are tnat you.'1l learn more aouLtL wrnmg ana tne wnter, tnan any paner wrtn contnveo. questions couto. expose. Abortion 34- have Eco- the l I j I I I I I I I I I _I ___ _] judgements. ':fl) assume, therefore, that Union College is not concerned with what happens in • \' the classroom is blatantly false. • Misleading Summary conclusions about appointment de- cisions are mis!eading because they presuppose a relatively easy solution to the difficult task of assembling on one campus a versatile, stimulat- ing, scholarly teaching s.taff. No~ ev~n, virtually unlimited funds at prestlgous umvers1t1es suffice \ 1 • • \' to overcome all possible objections from students, alumni,. faculty, and administration. Teachers, like other human beings, do not con:e neatly r labeled and packaged for selection. .,j ~· With equally disarming and inappropriate ease, 1 many commentators have decried research as l i · inimical to teaching, if not a downright per- version of values. Presumably, according to I . . this argument, if a teacher just teaches, the col~ r. . leges will improve immediately. I assume that the proponents of this thesis would also want the best teachen to teach as much as they possib:y can so that even more students can profit from • I · \ the experi~t;ce, without. rega~d to student load, 1 contact ho.us, or occasiOnal mtellectual refresh- ment. . . . h ,. b Another popular accusatwn 1solates t e ·pu · !ish or pc~ dl'' practice of the university. Actually I know of unly a few institutions that observe this criterion for tenure. l\nion <:}oes not. :aut. I would caution these critics to think through therr explanation, for it is not at all de~r that good scholarshii:i i.; linked with had teachmg. lf I un· derstar1d l.lw mgumcnt, the teacher who under takes a rt,.,arch project (an~ n?t. a 11 r~search must ltad tv so many poun<ls o~ p~mted ey1dence I either mu~t be fleeing froJ11 h1s mstruct10na~ .re- sponsibiliLw:o or be undergoing mental '''?ha?Ihta· twn. It ,:, more likely, in fact, that he IS Simply interebted lll the material he lS teachmg ann that his enthusJa~m about it adds a contagious element to his teaching. Professional Alertness Research is one way of retaining what the Col· lege sets as a '\'Mil for each faculty member, \pro- fessional alertness.\ I sincerely believe that t_he students prefer the instructor. who. 1s yveii·l.n- formed about his field or, t~ IJ.ut th1s pomt dlf- \ · '\ ferently, the instructor who IS n:tellectually per- ceptive. The state of lrnowledge m all disciplmes is changing so rapidly that the professor who One frequently judges a jazz performance on a basic number of criteria. These include being aware of melodic lines, with their accompanying harmonies, clarity and IJrecision with which they are cut, solos and their relations to the melody and mood, and the degree o~' interplay between members. Friday night's Jazt Workshop concert seemed, at times, to suffer from inexperience in improvisation, perhaps lack of sufficient rehear- sal preparation, and incomplete communication l)etween those playing. Strong performances throughout did, however, overshadow the even· ing's lesser moments. Weakest Part The tentette, a group under the guidance of trombonist Frank Darmiento, proved to be the weakest part of the concert due to an inability of its members to play cohesively, distortion by the cave-like acoustics of Memorial Chapel, and an inherent weakness and Jack of spontaneity in the written solos used. Temporary respite was furnished by a soul \Bluegrass Groove\ with its strong trombone background. The next group to perform was pianist Cliff Safane's trio. In its performance of the pianist's own piece, \Lady Lady\ a tender, haunting modal selection, Sefane exhibited his ability to render the soft and simple effective. Despite an intriguing interpretation of the melody of \Got to Get You into ~ly Life\ Safane failed in his structureless piano of disconnected ideas, Dave Brubeck pleasantries, and other well known favo· rite lines. Free Jazz \Scales Six\ an original study in free forlJ} jazz by saxophonist Dick Poccia, provided the best oppoxtunity for ip.dividual and comp!~mcntary expression with both Safane, now on bass c'arinet, and Poccia, on tenor sax exhibiting strength in range along with ability to communicate in ahnost a \question and answer\ manner. Unfortunately, the unique trio of basses, used for a rumbling background, were not loud enough to be heard ac curate:y in their \simultaneous\' solos. Tho.: llJ.Um solv by Don Powell hardly belinged in a piece such as this, although the endurance exhibition was proof of extra-ordinarily quick reflexes an an understanding. of flashy Morello techniques. q ,c.tJ1lMPUS 'CALENDAR· ~,· Pianist Cliff Sofane and bassist R_ick Holmes . \tender and haunting\ music. In essence an experiment, ''Scale Six\ was effec· tive emotional, moody expression performed .best between saxophone and clarinet. The quintet, without doubtb. was the highlight of the night. \Count Your C ange\ a piece re- presenting the \Cool School\ featured an inter· esting use of harmony by Safane and Mike Penna on bass in rounding out the melody. Sound, im- aginative solos by Poccia and Darmiento were complemented by the excellent cymbal work of Ron Powell. Despite the drummer's occasional failure to listen for breaks and cues and the absence of the group's usual ability for inter· play, \Days of Wine and Roses\ deviated from a conventional rendition with its changes in tempo, lyrical, searching melodic lines, and strong bass accompaniment. Satisfyin.s Tne concert, on the wl:lole, was more than satisfying to both the experienced and inexper- ienced listener and exceedingly exemplary of a student performance. A suprising amount of ex- cellent jazz ability exists on this campus and is just now beginning to be realized. The recent abortwn at ;:,~~:idmore, seco~d only to me l:la.iJvenmg herd at uruon, suggests tnat wnters say more on the IJrinted page m one paragrapn tnan tney can sa.Y on the stage m two nou1·s. out tne SjJ!llSter m the back row keeJls wanung to !mow It ner 1:yncs about sun and !lowers can be published in the wmter and the moaerator, m trus case the dean ot tne taculty, smr1es ana says, \dont yuu feel academics has muuenced your arU\ whe11 everyone knows that the oest wnters are sell-educated. But 1t is a college tunct10n and the coaege always has to checK Its posmon to make sure it still has a reason tor bemg, so it asKS the question, ••don't you tillnK that eaucatwn has helped you\ and the wnter says, \well uh, 1, uh\ and so on until the next mane quest10n. l1 the wnter is lucky he shows up drunk and the stuttered negatwns are nusLaK.en tor an mtelttctua.t outourst 01 mnrma- tlon and the crowd is pleased and the littie o1d 1a<1y actually goes to the newstand and buys one ot the wnter's booKs, m paperback. 'lhe proverbial questwn, '\why do you write?\ is ast•ed, and then the microphone is shuffled back and forth across the table and cliche is uttered and th~ creatlve writmg student jots it down m a notebook filled with other men's words, that someday, somehow he hopes to find a use for, if someone will just tell him how to write. The great gods, the published, are up there, and the eager are m the pit waiting for the gods to throw them a lifeline, and then the moderator calls time as if there is a limit to how much knowledge any one mind can absorb in an even\ ing. And still no one has told anyone how to. wr1te. Reception !\love to the reception; tea and coffee. Meet everyone, shake hands, good evening, good night, look literary, \have you read?\ An art in itself. Learning to hold the teacup and enunciate. Talk a good line. Sun and flowers. Maybe someday. \Confer confer,\ to paraphrase Whit Burnett, editor of STORY magazine, \until the writer reaches a point w3ere he has to go and write and talk to no one.\ If you want to hear what the man's saying read his book. Chances are he's not going t() be saying much at a college conference unless you talk to him alone away from the drones. Academics always talk more and most of what they say has all been said before. The writer writes. Let him write, and drink tea alone. Thursdcio)', february 23: Film Workshop; mee~ing for scencrio discussion and editing: practice at 8:00 p.m. in Notl Memorial, se~ond floor. l'rld .. y, February 24: sw;imming: !Jni'qn VI. R.P.I .• 2.30 p.m .• Gymnasiu-m._ TOLL£ ERFINDliNG, DJESER SCH11TTtN! J.CH FIND! DASS GENESE£ ,,\ (• l . ,, ,, { •• l fte•shmcn Svtimmh>s:~·l Union vs. R.P.L. 3,15 p.m .• GymnaS'·ium. . Fl\m Seri\s' •• Moana.\\ 7.00 and 9,00 p.m., Soe~al Sden~es Building, Room 16. Wednesday, March 1:- Freshman Wrestling; Union vs. Colgate. :?,30 p.m .• l;;ymnasium. Wrestling; Union vs. Colgate! 2:30 p .. m:·. Gymna$ium. Sci :-nee S\eminqr .. 7:15 p.m., Hole House O:nmg Room •• Thursday, March 2: Freshman Basketball: Un•on vs. :rnnlty • 6:15 p.m., ~ield House. • Basketball· Union vs. Trinity, s,oo p~m., f•eld House. Film Workshop; meeting at s,oo p.m. in Noll Memorial. second floor. Friday, March 3: Sen!inar• \Modern Ireland, • Michael Keat$, 4:30 p.m., tlale House Student Lounge. Film Series \'The Devil\s GenBral.\ • 7:00 and 9:00 p.m .. Social Science• Suilding, Room 16. Convocation: Uni~n College Chamber Singers ~nd Vassar Collt>ge Madrigal Singen, 8:30 p.m., Memonal Chcpel. ,. AROUND TOWN \ ALBANY Theatres: Delaware - \Slow-up\' H.;.llman ~ \The Bible Story'\ Modis<in - '\Do~tor Zhivoao•· Pc;lace - \The funeral in sJrlin'\ and \\Red Tomahaw·k·· SARATOGA Cafe Lona - Fronk Wakefield of the Greenbriar Boys Ce>lleee Inn - Sour hour Sunday 3,00 to 6,00 p.m. C~>tnmunity Theatre - \Dotor Zhlvcgo\ D\Andreo's - Sj>ur hour Friday 4,00 to 6.:00 p.m. Rip Van Dam ~ Sour hour Friday 7:00 to 9,00 p.m. SCHENE:CT ADY 1 Theatre\ Colony - \A Fistful of Dollars\ · Procto\ - \'A Funeral in Beilin'\ and \Red Toml'howk\ Scclla Art - \.t-lfie\ Slate - '• Doctor Zh ivag o'\ Dialogue Coffee House -Saturday, Feb. 2~: \Pt>st Script'\ by students, 8:45 p.m. S11nday, Feb. 26: '\The Fu· ture af Jhe Republican P.arty\' wlht Jesse Michael· ;on, 8:45 p~m. TROY C .. ·Cinema Art - \After the Fox and '\A Thousand towns Proctors - \Funeral in 'Berlin'\ and \Red Tomahawk:\' Troy - \Tobruk\\ and \The Chalk Garden\\ , ·Refuge Coffee Houoe I Russell Sage I - \'lhe 42nd Street Shuttle'\ EINE NOCH BESSER£· INDUNG ISTI ./ ...... the Genesee Moment! TH.E G£N£S£t B~(WtNG CO f •N\: , ROCHESTER. f.!. V. '~-·

Thursday, February 23, 1967 1hursday, 4 Fraternities: .Letters to the Editor the concert scheduled for last Lt.brary A. nd Saturday fell through, for them To the EditDr: The longhaired, mustached, goateed faction of rebels and their credalous fellows at Union are rallying once more. This situation in Vietnam to counsel the President. Perhaps a few suggestions on alternate meth· ods to combat enemy aggression should be sent along with their petition to end the bombing. to tell the student government how to handle show-biz people. Sc. apegoats Apparently, even Union C(Jl- lege has its share of eternal protesters. Al Kapp could go crazy with them. l?ubllshed Tlt11radays durin~; the scnoo& year b:v the Stu~ent :Body of Union Collee;e, SchGnectady, N.Y. National ·: Advertising Representative: National . Ad~ertlsing Service, Inc.. Colleg~ Publishers Representativ,., 420 Madi• eon Ave .. N. Y. C. Editorial Office, Old ·Gym, Union Col- lege. :Publication Office, Sche:oectady P•·inting Company, 60~ Broadway. Entered in the Schenectady Post Of- nee as Second Claas l\1ail :Matter • Subscription 16\l a copy; $3 a year delivered anywhere in ,the United States. SI~IOit BOARD , time they've proposed to advise the President of the United States on how to bring about peace in Vietnam. (Although, li:ke most of us Americans, they must be ignorant of the intrica· cies of a situation of which only the top government heads are aware.) I'm sure there's a potentially gr.eat political and military leader among them who knGWS, well enough, the The President, along with his official advisers, could certainly do without the instruction of any such uninformed group. I imagine that it was this same group which recently tried to tell President Martin and Dean Laird 'how to organize the housing situation at a small col- lege, and p11eviously, the social aspects. I'm now waiting; since How's about cooling it, you. STUDS. or at least get your hair cut and shaving before getting in touch with the President. · 1v1r. '1' '70 In the future, Concordiensis will not print \lDsigned letters to the editor. Names may be withheld by request. JOtH•;l'H .\. :1-1.\:-;;-,:, Jl\. '6S... 37~·4167 .... . ..... l!:liitm-in-Chief ;J.Ael{ ETKI X ·u t-L .. . . 8!6-98!!il . ............ .... Buslneas l\lanager · HICHAHD B.NLAGl'lt '69 ....................................................................... News Editor ALA:-l' ZIEGLE:H '69 ......................................................................... Features Editor MICHAEL LEVJN-EJ?STElr-: '69 .......................................................... Sports Editor CLJ'Ii'l'\ ~A!l·,.£\~ E 'li!l .... )lusie Editor JUNIOR BOARD Alan Klein' 69 . ....... . ................ Ass't N EIVS Editor Dick Daniel '70 ...... . ...................................................... •Photog.rapher Peter Drotlllal\ '6 9 .......................................................... Local Advertising. Nanngel George Voln.nakis '6~ ........ . . .. ... ... ..... . . . .. . ......... Subscription :Manager Joel Rubenzahl '68 ....................................................... National Advertising :Manager Henry !tines '69 ...... .... . ................................. Distribution l\lanager . .Paul Gerber • 63 .................................................. Circulation :Manager Ga·t·:r Pr~vust • t:i'l ....................... Associate St><Ol'tS Editor Al Lt->Vi • fi!l ...... Assistant Sp<Jl'tS Editor S1'AFF l\IE~mERS NEWS: Brian HolleY. Len J(a.gan, Neil Kramer, R!cha•·d Patters<>n, <:arl Engle- barL~ I-Ial Ross. Hu~· }i\.tlUiterman. FEATUKE8: Steve Fox. Brian Jzzo, Jim Koltz. HPORTS: ~1.tl<e Fu<·hs. :\like !<layman, Jeff Kurzius, Len Simun. Cautious Council The Student Council is not often considered to be the most dynamic force on campus, and its proceedings last Tuesday night served to confirm any impressions of this sort. It was reported that at the meeting some members were reluctant to support.-or even thoroughly discuss--a resolution endorsing the Fair Franchise Committee's ob- jective of lowering the voting age. Even though this proposal was intended to be the opinion of the council members themselves, ra.th.er than a statement of unanimous student feeling, some Student Council members felt that it was not in their p.l'ovince to act on the quegtion alone. If the resolution was ta.bled for that reason only, then this sentiment suggests that some council members are not aware of the purpose of student government, or of governments in general. As elected re- PF~sentat~ves of the students, Student Council members shoUld by their very nature incorporate the best interests of the majority of students. We are not saying here that student opinion should be ignol:'ed; rather we are saying that the representatives will never attain a total consensus on any issue and that they are overlooking their duties of representa-tion when they fail to use the powers entrusted to them. Repres€ntatives are chosen by large groups of people essentially for convenience's sake; it is more effi-. cient for one person to speak for the majority th~n it is for each individual to express his own views separately. · , The Student Council seems to vacillate between seelr- ing student opinion and ignoring it: when the voting age qu~tion was brought up, it was imperative that the stu- dent body be consulted; but when a motion ~as passed last year to censure a Concordiensis editor, the attitudes of the student body were not considered. The latter motion, however, no matter how ridiculous it seemed, was a justi- fiable action on the part of a student goverrun.ent. A re- presentative body simply cannot consult its constituents in all cases, gain a consensus and still accomplis.:h meaning:- ful tasks. If the electors are not happy with tlle perfore- mance of their representatives, let them effect a change. Th.e Student Council is a potential source ()f imagina- tive and beneficial programs for the students of Union College. Its motion to oppose the administration's housing policy last term is a fine example of this. But if unrealistic conservatism continues to taint the Student Council's pro- ceedings, perhaps the representatives' power\ should be returned to the students. Congratulations Conco.rdiensis wishes to extend its heartiest congratu- lations to Professor Niemeyer upon his election to the Lamont chair. This award, though, can only- serve as a partial recognition of his sincere interest in education and of his superior a:hilities as a teacher and a department chairman. President Martin seems to have described Professor Niemeyer in a ffi()St fitting manner when he characterized. him as \one of our greatest teachers.\ We are very proud to have Dr. Niemeyer as a member of tbe Union com munity. • • Last year, thousands ollawye:rs, hankers, accountants, engineers, doctors and businessmen went hack to college. And not just for the football games. We'd like to clear up what appears to be a rnisund~rstanding. It is somewhat popular on campus to decry a business career on the grounds that you stop leammg once y()u start working for Cliche Nuts & :Bolts. That idea is groundless. We can't speak for Cliche, but we can for ourselves-Western Electric, the man- ufacturing and supply unit of the :Bell Sys- tem. 6 out of 10 college graduates whohave joined us over the pa~t 10 years, for eJ(am- ple, have continued their higher education. How're these for openers: W .E.'s Tuition Refund Plan lets em- ployees pursue degrees while work- ing for us. Over 6 thousand have at- tend~d schools in 41 states under this plan. We refund more than $1 million in tuition costs to employees a year. To name another program: advanced engineering study, under the direc- tion of Lehigh University, is con- ducted at our Engineering Research Center in Princeton, N. J. Selected employees are sent there from all over the country for a year's concen- trated study leading to a master's degree. You get the idea. We're for more learn- ing in our business. After all, Western Electric doesn't make buggy whips. We make advanced communications equip- ment. And the Bell telephone network will need even more sophisticated devices by the time your fifth reunion rolls around. The state of the art, never static, is where the action is. At Western Electric, what's happening is the excitement and satisfaction of con- tinued doing and learning. If this happens to appeal to you, no matter what degree you're aiming for, check us out. And .grab a piece of the action. til\ Western Electric ~ MANUFACTURING & SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM By LEN KAGAN This is the second of a series of articles dealing with the Union College fraternity sys- tem. Exami .othei'Wis Far too manY members of the coEege community are, as I mentioned in the first article Final I ing the I of this series, content to blame the fraternities for all student misbehavior, without first in- vestigating the problems in- volved. Such a situation oc- curred in the Fall of 1962,. when Professor E. K. Tolan, Head Librarian at Schaffer Library, ' released a report on missing books. Confli De Grof March 6 MONDJ! Astounding Figures The figures that be quoted were astounding. A general in- ventory of science and technol- ogy, and American and English ' literature coHections showed an overall loss of over 6 percent. Alarming as these statistics were, they were nothing when ·. compared with statistics for spe- cific areas of the collections inventoried. Categories such as anatomy and electronics snowed \' a loss of 15 to 16 percent. Those classifications in mathematics embracing advanced calculus and differential equations showed a loss of 19 percent of 11 the total coilection on'r a ten year period. Heavy losses were found among such contempor- ary authors as Fitzgerald, :Eliot :1 and Steinbeck, and the first six· teen volumes of Mathematical Reviews had also been removed from the library. 9:00·1 ~ E F F II l\ l\ l'r 1'1 ll E :E 2::00-~ J ] E E ( I I I D As Prof. Tolan then noted, \In most cases, the books which are missing are those most fre- quent1y in demand. Thas, in a addition to being a matter which can be calculated in terms of dollars and cents, this heavy loss of books represents . TUESDA an actual, or a potential, incon- :. venience and hardship to every member of the colle;;e com- munity.\ Caused Stir When this informatwn was .t:ublished in Concordiensis, \it caused a stir, and thin<.?s started happening,\ Prof. Tolan re- :& called. \People started brjnging books back, but there developed on campus the general opinion that the fraternities· were to -~ blame. This was just not so.\ As a result of this situation, and the ensuing biased campus reaction, the problem was dis- ) cussed at the then-annual, stu- dent-faculty Canterbury Con· ference. During a recess, Prof. Tolan and Ken Paiment, the , President of the IFC, discussed the problem further. Paiment pledged the full cooperation of the Interfraternity Council. The final result of these discussions ·~~ was the formation of the highly effective, yet little known Li- brary Laison Program. · Each fraternity designates , ' one brother whose responsibili- ties include checking the chap· ter house occasionally for lost; forgotten, or misplaced library • materials. Tolan feels that the program has created ''library- fraternity Liason Officers as part of a campus-wide search 1 for a particularly important ' mising book.\ Successfu}:t'r9gram Although the program has • been quite successfu1, and there has been a \definite improve· ment\ in the missing book pro b· lem, the general campus com- munity seems to be unaware of the unique role that the fra- ternities have assumed to help the Library w;th this problem. Although Prof. Tolan has re- ported on the success of the program to the Faculty Library Committee, such reports have never reached the general doesn't recall that Concordiensis 9:00· ( j I l I I 2:00· Micl Specie Let tJ Dow• A Uil N.l4 B campus CQ:r:i).ni.unity. Tolan I has ever reported on the pro- gram's achievements in its four e ., ~;;;:;:; year history. ;:;: ' + + • , This episode is just one of many in a long history of campus negligence. The frater- t .., nities are not public1y credited for their achievements and con- tributions, partly because of the past anti-fraternity editorial 41 41 policy of this newspaper. Yet a disproportionately large portion of the blame for student mis· behavior is directed toward the ~ fraternities. In this instance, ·r!l ., \ though, as Prof. Tolan re- 11- marked, \We have confidence ~ that the missing book problem was not really a fraternity prob- lem.\

1967 1hursday, February 23 1 1967 ''The Quality Of Mercy Is Not Strained'' series h the sys- ers of as I ) article blame in- , in- on oc- Head s quoted in- English ' an when ·. for spe- such as showed Those \' of !> a ten es were Eliot => first six- noted, which fre- in a matter ated in this incon- :>. tD every com- was \it s started re- a bringing eveloped opinion were to -~ ot so.\ campus was dis- ) stu- Con- Prof. the , Paiment ration of The scussions ·~~ highly Li- , chap· for lost; d library ) that the ''librarY· fleers as search am has • there improve- prob- com· • co of the fra- dto help ·problem. has re- of the by Library orts have general 0 ~ FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE Second Term - 1966-67 MONDAY., MARCH 13 9 :00·11 :00 A.M. Music 33 (New Artistic Freedom)-in Humanities ~enter 19 English 11 (English Literature from Ch~ucer to Milton) • History 45 (1nte11ectual and Cultural History of Early Mod, ern Europe) History 49 (Nineteenth Century Europe) Mathematics 10 (Calculus I) Mathematics 12 (Calculus II) Mathematics H (Calculus III) Mathematics 30· (Ordinary Differential Equations) . Mathematics 35 (Advanced Calculus and Special Functions:) Mathematics 4:0' (Orthogonal Functions and Boundary Values E. E. 32 (Analysis of Electronic Devices) E. E. 43 (Advanced Electronics) 2::00-4:00 P.M. Art 24 (Art of the 19th Century)-in Old Chapel Economics 10 (Elementary Economics, Part I) Economics 11 (Elementary Economics, Part II) Economics 42 (1\-lacroeconomic Analysis, Fluctuations and :Policy) Chinese 33 (The Chinese Language in Practical Use I) French 43 (The Writers of Romanticism) Biology 31 (Zoology and Comparative Anatomy of Verte- brates) Biology 47 (Cellular Physiology II) M.E. 43 (Fluid Dynamics)-in C.II. 110 TUES.DAY, MARCI·I 14 9:00·1LOO A.l\'1. Camp Ed eo (Man as an Organism) Art 26 ((American Art)-In Old Chapel Political Science 29 (International Relations)-in B.H. 30:1 Sociology 10 (Human Society) Biology 12 (Cell-Biology-Core II) Biology 13 (Origin and Diversity of Plants-Core Ill) Biology 36 (Intervertebrate Zoology) l\LE. 41 (System Dynamics and Control)- 2:00·4 :00 P.M. English 32 ('I'he English and Continental Novel) Michael Rotll\ s Restaurant and Lounge Of Upper Union Street Full Course Dinners $1.75 and up Fine Jazz on Fri. and Sat. Go-Go Nightly from 9-3 Special to Union Stvrlenfs: No Cover or Minimum. 10 per cent off on All Food and Drink Let the lager freely flow. i.~ ~ j. Down to louis', let us go, :: ., A unique place to dine with ()ld European Atmosphere N.ICHOLAUS RESTAURANT Since 1895 - Corner 266 State and Erie Blvd. food 1/JJext:efled in This Area For reser.vations phone FR 4-8917 135 ERIE BOULEVARD Boulevard Bowl 32 AMF BOWLING LANES - Open 24 Houri Daily - St-IACK BAR ON PREMISES Philosophy 11 (Methods of Philosophical Thought) Political Science 10 (Introduction to Government)- in B.H. 304 Political Science 31 (Contemporary Political Thought)- in B.H. 304 Anthropology 11 (Man and Culture) Physics 11 {Mechanics)-(secs. 5, 6, 7, 8, to C.L. 201) E. 25 (Analytical Mechanics I) E. 26 (Analytical Mechanics II) E. 50 (Introductien to Computer Programming) WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15 9 :00·11 :00 A.M. Greek 14 (Herodotus and Thucydides) Latin 11 (Latin Reading) Latin 14 (Latin Literature of the Golden Age) English 55 (The Metaphysicals and Cavaliers) Chinese 11 (Basic Chinese 11) French 11 (Basic French II) German 10 (Basic German I) German 11 (Basic German II) Russian 11 (Basic Russian II) Spanish 11 (Basic Spanish ll) Geology 12 (Mineralogy I)-in G.L. 24 E. 18 (Elements of Thermodynamics)-in C.H. 301 E. 22 (Science of Engineering Materials) C.E .. 43 (Environmental Engineering) 2:00-4:90 P.M. History 46 (Rise of Modern Russia) Political Science 65 (Politics of Metropolitan Areas)- . in B.H. 304 Chemistry 36 (Physical Chemistry I) Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Psychology 47 (History and Systems of Psychology) E. 14 (Particle Mechanics) E. 16 (Electrical Engineering) THURSDAY, MARCH 16 9:00·11:00 A.M. Comp Ed 25 (The Western Heritage: Greek and Hebrew Background) Economics ( 27 (Statistical Methods) English 59 (The Earlier Romantics) History 11 (A Survey of Modern Europe. 1715-1939) History 55 (Problems of Political and Economic Develop- ment in Modern Latin America) Philosophy 33 (Contemporary Philosophy) Sociology 35 (Social Problems and Social Structure) C.E. 40 (Structures Il)-in C.H. 305 2:00-4:00 P.M. History 36 (Modern America: The Deal and After) Philosophy 31 (Medieval Philosophy) Political Science 11 rThe American Political System)- in B.H. 304 Chemistry 31_ (Organic Chemistry II) ZELLMER'S NORGE lAUNDRY AND CLEANING VILLAGE AT 1§59 VANVRANKEN AVE. (at Hattie Street) DRY CLEANING . WASHERS 8 Lbs. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ $2 .00 12 Lb. --- _. _____ • _ .25 4Lb.Min. ________ 1.00 20Lb, ____________ .35 DRYERS 30 Lb. __ --. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .50 10 Min.----------- .10 OPEN - 8 A.:M. to 10 P.l\1. Mon. to Fri. - Sat. 8 A.l\L to 5 P.M. 1() .<\..M. to 6 P.l\1. Sundays IF YOU HAVE NEVER HAD NORGE DRY CLEANING DONE WE CAN BET YOU WILL BE AMAZE!) MONARCH CLASS NOTES and STUDY GUIDES SHAKESPEARE Chemistry 42 (Advanced Analytical Chemistry) Physics 30 (Electronic Circuits) Psychology 24 (Social Psychology) E.E. 47 (Principles of Digital Computers) FRIDAY, MARCH 17 9:00·11:00 A.M. Classics 12 (History of Rome) Greek 11 (Plato) Economics 25 (Principles of Accountin~) Economics 45 (Managerial Economics) English 54 (Shakespeare: The Later Plays) History 33 (Nationalism, Democracy and Reform, 1812-1840) Spanish 31 (Introduction to Spanish-American Literatlll'e~ Philosophy 20 (Classical Logic) Chemistry 30 (Organic Chemistry I) E. 2 (Fortran Programming) E. 30 (Mechanics of Deformable Solids)' E.E. 3 (Machine Language Programming) A.S. 31 (Growth and Development of Aerospace Power II -m Hoadley Housa 2:00·4:00 P.M. Economics 32 (Labor Economics and Indu.strial Relations) English 10 (Form and Analysis) · English 24 ((The 20th CentUiy American Novel) English 62 (Victorian Literature: The Irnage of Nature and Society) French 12 (Basic French III) German 12 (Basic German HI) German 33 (The German Language in Practical Use I) Russian 30 (Advanced Russian I) Spanish 12 (Basic Spanish HI) E.E. 31 (Applied La Place and Fourier Transforms) E.E. 41 (Energy Conversion) SATURDAY, MARCH 18 9:00·11:00 A.M. English 12 (English Literature from Swift to the Moderns) History 41 (Controlling Forces in Amer.iean Economic De- velopment) History 62 (Traditional China) German 42 (German Romanticism and :Realism) Chemistry 10 (Fundamental Chemistry I) Chemistry 12 (Fundamental Chemistry II) Chemistry 34 (Quantitative Chemistry) Chemistry 44 (Advanced Physical Chemistry) Mathematics 28 (Probability) M.E. 31 (Fluid Systems Analysis) 2 :00-4 :00 P.M. English 25 (American Civilization) History 22 (History of Modern Britain: 1660-1950) French 30 (Readings in Contemporary French Literature) S<lciology 42 (The Politics of Society) Geology 46 (Regional Tectonics)-in G.L. 25i Mathematics 32 (Abstract Algebra I) Mathematics 45 (Topology II) Physics 33 (Electricity and Magnetism lir Serving Union For 33 Years SILVER DINER of Schen·ec:tady ERIE BOULEVARD 6 A.M. - 11 P.M. 346-9522 Excellent Food and Informal Atm()sphere at ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES JOHN'S NEWS 1 55 Clinton St. The PIPEMAN'S SMOKE\ SHOP 262 Saratoga ltaad MAYFAIR SHOPPING CENTER At the Sign of the Red NeoA Pipa TUES. thru SAT.7 to 9 P.M. THURS. and FRI.: 7 to 9 PM SCOTIA, N.Y. Phone 399-1630 for Seniors and Graduates in MECHANICAL, AERONAUTICAL, CHEMICAL, CIVIL (structures oriented), CAMPUS · ELECTRICAL, MARINE, and METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING ENGINEERING MECHANICS, APPLIED MATHEMATICS, CERAMICS, PHYSICS and ENGINEERING PHYSICS INTERVIEWS WEDNESD.l\Y, MAR. 1 . Tolan I the pro- its four e ., ~~:;=;~~~;:;=;;:~~:;;~~~;:;=;;:~:;=;~~~~~~~ ~:;:;;;;:;:;;;;:;:;;;;;;:;;:===:::;;:;:;;;;;;;;;;;~ t Appointments shout d be made in advance through your College Placement Office one of of frater- y credited con- of the editorial per. Yet a portion mis· the irtstan ce, Tolan re· confidence problem prob- <J \' t I> ~ • • DEWITT'S CaleteTia and Tap Room Fine Food and Legal Beverages \ 118- 120 JAY STREET ~ ·~· •••••••••••• + ........... 4 •• + * *. * + ••• + ........ .. RELAX! PLAY BILLIARDS AT Jay Billiard Lounge 167 Jay Street SPECIAL RATES For Union Men u Pratt& Whitney ~ire raft DIVISION OF lJN<r~RCRAFT CORP, I An Equal Opporlunily Employer SPECIALISTS IN~ ••• POWER FOR PROPULSION-POWER FOR AUXILIARY SYSTEMS. CURRENT UTILIZATIO~S INCLUDE AIRCRAFT, MISSILES, SPACE VEHICLES, MARINE AND INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS • i . I

Thursday, . February 23, 1967 5 J ) ~ Skiers Hope to Start; Vergith Rolls 662 Triple; Lacrosse: Fastest Growing Sport?' Paces Vito's To Victory , . Peel Orange Today? ; ~::r::n:;':;~:: r.<<::~tt::,.,:,, , ; ,:::· .. :;,,;::;: : : :::::::;~:\::· · :::1 :::::;:r:/:::; :Hi!$%- ~ 8 @::;::i'i::!l :;iM it ::f::J ;l:::;:,:: m:: ; :r;,:;n : t;% :·:,;;:;::;:::: t.: : :: :t §:::.:: :By AL LEVI By GARY PREVOST sweeping four points from By HOB HAYES . • H~ving been pla g ued b y warm t emperatures and the re- su~ting lack of snow, the Union College Ski Team has not yet • 1 . . ~competed intercollegiately this · year. . January 28 and 29, the team w as to travel to West Point w here it was to compete in the '\'jumping event Saturd,ay and the cross country event Sunday. As a resu:t of the preceding week of rather warm winter 11 · , ., temperatures, these two nordic events were resehedu'ed for thP. weekend of February 4 and 5, when they were to have been 0 · ,.run after the two a 1 pine events, ' slalom and downhill. The team was again looking forward to its first trip, but was again dis- appointed when the meet was t it • \ entirely cancelled due to the lack of snow. Since then the team has been conditioning in preparation for · u ·• what was to be its third week - end away, but what now will be its first meet of the season. This Thursday, February 23, the ski team will travel to Syracuse University where it will com pete Friday and Saturday in four events aga i nst a possible . .. ------------ lntramurals By MIKE KLAYMAN Delta Upsilon took first place in the intramural track com- petition three weeks ago . Tom Oberst's mark of 39'7 % \ for the ' shot put helped to capture the lead for his house while D.U. aiso had winning times of 3:04.5 and 2:52.4 for the 8-lap and medley relays, respectively. Other marks were set by Steve :a,oehm of Sigma Chi in the broad jump (18 ' 5%, \ ) and in the 55 yard low hurdles (7.6), Mark Meisel of Phi Epsilon Pi in the 50 yard sprint, ( 6.0), and John Baird, an independent, in the high jump (5'7\). The final tally rated D .. U. first with 25.5 points, followed by Chi Psi, Phi Delta Theta, and Phi Ep with 18, 13 , and 12 % points respectively. In intramural basketball, Beta Theta Pi is leading the American League , while Delta Phi leads the National League. Both houses have perfect rec - ords of 5-0. Beta has already defeated Chi Psi and D.U. (tied for third place with records of 3-1) , A D Phi, Phi Sigma Kappa, and Phi Delta Theta. They still must face Delta Chi, second in the ' ' · · league . I D Phi has already defeated :I both Phi Ep and Phi Sigma Delta second and third in the Natioilal League, respectively. Coach Lawrence announced Tuesday that the intramural swimming meet will be held at 4:30 P . M. on March 7 and 8 in Foote Pool. Wilt Chamberlain Why would the world's greatest basketball player want to get into the ring with the undefeated heavy- weight champion of the world? Sportswriter Leonard Shec- ter, writing in the cur:nmt issue of SPORT magazine, explains Chamberlain's sud- den desire to enter boxing this way: · \The one tbing Wilt Cham- berlain despises the most is to be considered a freak. • It's why he contemplated leaving basketball to become a profesisonal decathlon star, it's why he considered be- coming an end for the Kansas City Chiefs , and why he con- siders trying to become the heavyweight boxing cham- pion of the world. It is this strange drive that leads }lim to think he ~s not only the best basketball player in the world, but the best chess player, the best track man, and the best cook.\ L. G. BALFOUR CO. CARL SORENSEN BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS - KEYS MEDALS - TROPHIES Write or Call fraternity Jewelers 729 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, N.Y. 13210 ten or eleven schools. Friday, In a recent issue of a national .sports magazine, the editors Freshman Doug Vergith rolled Teddy's K's Tavern. Gary Pre· the team will compete in .the selected whom they . believed to be .the top performers in 1966 in the a 632 triple last week, the second vost was high for Top's with a giant sla l om and slalom events ; world of sports. Although their choices were reasonable enough, highest in Dutch Classic League 202 ; 552, while Tom Benedi<!t while Saturday, it will compete they neglected a major sport, which in the future may rival foot- history to pace Vito's Boys to added a 221-531. in the jumping and cross coun- baU in popularity. a 3-1 win over Sealtest. Vergith Bernie's Mid-Hill Tavern kept try events. Individually, t he Lacresse is becoming the fastest growing sport in the nation. has games of 189, 243 , and 230 pace with Top ' s Bar by sweep- members of the ski team will Although for many years the sport was on l y played by Ivy League en route to his fine total. Gary ing four points from Caruso ' B be starting · in the four events and Maryland colleges, lacrosse is now being played in most of the Nelson scored 206 ' 541 for the Tavern. Art Klein led the win· in the orders a s foHows: major schools, using it as a test of courage for their young men. : osers. ners with a 530 while iDon Giant Slalom: Today ' s game is a test of speed stamina and skill'. Bob Erianne scored his first Hovey scored 222-523 for the 1 Mark Herzog COO total of the year, a 602, to losers. 2 Dave Conant Contrast Todav help Moffett's Liquor .Store gain Ken Merchant of Bernie' · s 3 Don Haviland Today's lacrosse can best be described as a contrast of two a split with Kelly's Ba r . Eri- Mid-Hill Tavern, highlighted 4 Jeff StaH styles~ They ate \stick handling\ exemplified by Maryland lacrosse anne's total came on games of the action two weeks age with 5 Bob Ha y es players, and \hard-checking\ exemplified by Long Island lacrosse 209, 189 and 204. Bob Stankewicz a 607 triple on games of 192 , Slalom: players. A successful team must have both . groups. This can best be LOntributed a 514 for Moffett's. 216, and 199. 1 Mark Herzog seen by observ-ing the Naval Academy teams during the last few Top's Bar maintained a one- Gary Prevost retains the indl· 2 Don Haviland years This championship group had both, with atack Pete Taylor roint lead in the title race by vidual average lead with 183. 3 Dave Conant using J\llaryland tactics and superstar Jim Lewis employing Long ~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;a;;;;;;;;;;;ii;;;;;;;;;;;~ 4 Bob Ha y es Island maneuvers . 5 Jeff Stall It is true that it is quite rare when a coach has the opportunity · Jumping: to use both; thus he is forced to decide which one he shall employ. · 1 Gustav Hamilton Lacrosse coaches around the nation are divided on which is more 2 Dave Conant successful, hut after examination, this reporter sees the Maryland 3 Ma;rk Herzog style as being the · most profitable , since the overwhelming majority . 4 Jeff Stall of national champions in the past have adopted it. This year's 5 Bob Hayes probable champion, the University of Maryland, certainly will. X-country: {best man start i ng · i======================~~==============~ last) 1 Sandy Alexander 2 Gustav Hamilton 3 Mark Herzog 4 Bob Hayes 5 Don Havi'land EASTERN AVENUE PIZZERIA 860 Eastern Ave. THE PEANUT STO · RE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS 1 For three Generations.' Those Who Know .. Have be . en recommending - , HERSHEL MAURICE B. WALTER Maurice B. Graubart & Sons , CAMPUS CLEANERS WE DELIVER PIZZA PHONE 393-0870 and Nu.tmeats from all over the world. 41 3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family'• 166 JAY ST. 527 NOTT ST. Opposite Union College 393-5472 'fTTTfTTTf'WffTfTfTTff#f+ DIAMANTE'S ~ Enjoy Our Fine Home ~ Cooked Italian Food in Our~ Comfortable Dinning Room : 1 Opp. The Brownell Gate~ on Nott Street ~ Open Daily 10 to I A.M. : ~Sundays 5 P.M. to I A.M.: ~ ~4&4,1.44 444444.&..44 4 4 4 4 • CARL FRETZ (B.S.Ch . E.) of the Bethlehem Steel Loop Course knows where the action is. He faces new challenges daily as an e:x;perimental engineer in the Metallurgical Department of our Bethlehem, Pa., Plant. Join the action. First step: pick up a copy of \Careers with Bethlehem Steel and the Loop Course\ at your placement office. Then sign up for a campus interview. Our 1967 Loop Class has openings for technical · and non - technical graduates (and post-grads) for careers in steel operations, research, sales, mining, accounting, and other activities. An Equal Opportunity Employer in tJ,.e Plans for Progress Program BEI ' HLEHEM STEEL • 406 STATE ST. FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY World Wor I Ace Snooping Around for o New Cor Dodge 0 CHRYSLER MOTORS CORPORATION DEAR REB: I'm a former World War I Air Ace, and when it comes to buy- ing a new car, I can really fly off the handle. Frankly, the whole thing is a dogfight for me . I'm tired of piloting my present car and have got my sights set on a performance model that'll let me strut in style . But its price has got to be solo it won't shoot me down. I'm banking on you to help me flnd one, Reb. MAX, TFIE RED BARON DEAR RED BARON: Don't be blue, Max! Tri-winging around in a new Dodge Coronet R/T -Road/Track. The hottest new performance car of the year. Standard equipment includes a 440-cubic-inch, 4-barrel Magnum V8. Front bucket seats . Air-scoop hood de- sign. High - performance Red Streak nylon tires-and more! Join the Dodge Rebellion in a Coronet R/T -you can do it for peanuts. And as for your present car: Junker. The '67 Coronet R/T is strictly a driving man's car, with a long list of standard performance features designed to give you cat-quick responsiveness on the road or the track . Your choice of four-on-the-floor or a three-speed automatic trans- mission. Heavy-duty brakes. Heavy suspension underneath. Dual exhausts. Full-length paint stripes. All standard. And as an option, you can ·have a dynamic 426-cubic-inch Hemi V8 under the hood. Choose your R/T in either a two-door hardtop or convertible model. Check one out at your Dodge Dealer's soon. • I . ' . ' . l ' j ,i,

' Dean Lockwood ()n Teaching Page3 Concordy Sports More on Fraternities Page4 Hoopsters Break RPI Skein; Need 2 Wins For .500 Mark The Ga.;voet hoopsters saw their record move to 8-10 with a loss to Wesle- yan after b-~g: victories over Stevens an.d: R. P. I. They close out tlleir season with an eye to\Vard finishing with an even record, by traveling to Hamilton Wednesday- and closing out at home Tllursday night against Trinity. Tuesdav nignt the Engineers from Troy fe 11 before a hot- shooting Uni()n squad led by senior ·rom l!fr-belis. He led the scoring with 2(), pulle_d dow~ 11 rebounds and had fiVe ass1sts. Greg Ols~n also turned in a _fine game with :1~ point? and _e1ght assists. Juntms Btll Pnscott a'nd Tad Kndgllt contributed 14 and 11 poi11ts •respectively. The Garnet led nearly all the way in avelliging an earli~r one point loss, ~nd snappmg a seven-game \V\lll stvealc on the part of REL with the 76-68 victory, In a sloppily play_ed first half, they came away w,Jth a 30-26 advantage after leadmg by as mucll as 14. R.P.I. en· joyed its oa'ly le~d .of the game just after intermission at 31-30. The Dutcl1men then held a three to fi. ve •!>Oint lead _u~til the Engineers pulled to Withm one point with 7 :28 to go. Then Urbelis led t:he Garnet charge which put the game safely out of reaeh. The key te> the victory was the 55'/'o sll(Joting from the field hy Union, as compared with 34:'/r by R.P.I. The;y: were led by Kur-t Hollosch. w1th 21 points and T'om Kelllher who tallied' 19. Dutchmen Maul Stevens Satuiday afternoon was no contest as the Dutchmen ran away fr<Jm Stevens Tech 87-48. Led by Co-ca.J)tain Greg Olson, Union dominated every part of the game, ·l.ea.:!ing 38-20 at ha~f­ time Olso11 !tit for 18, F1tz Tur~er had 16, Bill . Priscott scored 12 an<l Tad Kmght had 10 as the' Garnet hit 54% from the field. Stevens stayed close for about 12 minutes before the Garnet broke fro!II a 12-11 lead with nine straig.iht points and w~re never again. tlneatened. The m- vaders were led by Hank He!dt with 14 and ~ohn Horgen w1th en even dozen. They now stand at 1-11 for the season. Last nig11t the Garnet fell before a .fa.st-breaking, good shooting W .esleyan squad, .. 90-59. The first h~lf was slowly played, as Wesleym :held a slight edge almost thro1.1t;h, with the margin being 46-3& at intermission. The secomd half was all Wes· leyan, as the sophomore-domi· nated Cardinals outran the Gar- net at both. ends of the court, and coasteci in with liberal use of their ben(!h. Coach Evans, constantly shuffled his players, couldn 1 t cone up with a combi- F\ERRO PHARMACY 575 M·olt Street Schenectady, N. Y. FR 7-0510 • FOU NTA.IN SERVICE Greg Olson goes up for two against Stevens Tech in Garnet victory last Saturday. nation that could keep up with the hustling visiotors, led by sophomore Jack Sitarz who had 19, A trio of Wesmen followed with 13 points apiece, including co-captain Bob Ryan, and sopho- mores Fran Spadola and Greg Wrobel. Despite a Union height advantage, the visitors constant- ly outscrambled the Garnet for the second and third shots. Frosh Record 8-3 Tops for the Garnet was Tad Knight with 14, while Bill Pris- cott hit for 11. The Garnet frosh split two contests and now stand at 8-3 Tuesday night they fell before R.P.I., 90-74, as the Epgineers rebounded from a prevtous loss at the hands of Union. Tops for the frosh was Pete Garrison with 14, while Jim Getman, Craig Carlson, Roger Harrison, and Jeff Kirkpatrick each had 10. Last night the frosh defeated Wesleyan 71-64. The first half was sloppy and slow, and W es led 29-25. They exploded after intermission, as a blistering fast break wore down the visitors. Jim Getman was high with 20 points while Garrison and Carl- son had 18 and 16 respectively. RITZ REST AU RANT 1725 Van Vranken Avenue Featuring -HOME STYLE ITALIAN FOODS, STEAKS. CHOPS, SEAFOODS Catering To Small & Large Parties - Try Our Lowenbrau On Tap - Serving Schenectady Over 30 Years Open Daily except Mondays Reduced DI\Y Cleaning Rates For Union College Students Union Jackets Pants Suits Sweaters Sportcoats Jackets $2.00 .49 .98 1.00 .75 1.50 ZUCKERMAN CLEANERS & DYERS, Inc~ Contact: JACK ETKIN - CHI PSI - 346-98 29 Campus Agent for Zuckerman LUIGI'S RESTAURANT '\' SPECIALIZING IN Italian .. American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. Schenectady 01 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar • ¥ t t ~- 'f t t Y f f f t t f t t f t t t t t y Y i t f f f 9 T ~ 9' 'f f T ~ 4 f T T Y f i ¥ f ¥ i Y f f Y f f i 9 f t y I i i t 'f f 'T f 'T \1 Jay Jewelry Co. 3 15 STATE STREET :lJiamon~ ... Purchased in Belgium and Imported for Your Savings. Eliminate the Importer and Wholesaler. Arnold Fisher '50 • • • • .. • • • 4 .... 4 •• + • + ..... -0, •••• 4 ..... + • 4 .. A 4 I • 4 ...... + • A 4 ... A ... + 6 + 4 A •• 1 ••••• A • \ ·~ Matm.en Bury E·ngineers; Extend Win Streak To 8i Union College wrestlers yesterday defeated a good team from R.P.I., 22-15, to keep the Garnet's undefeated record intact and beat the Engineers for the first time since 1959. Newcomer Stu Rubin, making his initial mat appearanc~, made a credible start at 115, al- though losing to R.P.I.'s Ben Sorensen in a close decision. Frank D'Antuono evened the score for the Garnet by dedsioning John Roth. In a sur- prise move, Jeff E:urzius, who normally wrestles at 137, dropped to the 130 pound class and annihilated R.P.I.'s David Yu. Tripp Decisions With the Garnet leading 6-3, Ron Iannotti dropped a well fought decision to Eric Blair at 137. Tom Tripp put Union ahead again at 145 by defeating Bob Stevens 12-5. In a come-from behind effort, Dick Rosener closely decisioned Pete Cleaveland at 152. At 160 and 167, the Garnet lost two decisions when Ev Yelton and. Brian Crandall lost to AI Hald and Mwc Abramowitz, respectively. At 177; Bary Cornwall. won by a default due to a shoulder injury to RPI's Klaus. The score being 17-12, Al Baskous, wrestling at 191, put the meet on ice by pinning RPI'S Indorf in 6:55. His was the only fall of the day for the Garnet. To end the meet, the Engineer's unlimited, Diadoia, decisioned Pete Kenyon, 8·1 In the brief period of eight days, before yester- day's match, the Union College wrestling team won four dual matches to increase their perfect record to 7-0, The first win was followed by an 18-14 defeat of Oneonta and 23-10 and 31-9 victories over Clarkson and St. Lawrence. In the four matches, Frank D' Antuono, Tom Tripp, and AI Baskous remained undefeated by beating each of their opponents. Ron Ia!'..natti, despite losing his first match of the season, pin- ned his other three opponents and scored the quickest pin of the season against St. Lawrence. The Rochester match turned out to be a vir- tual romp with Union winning in every weight class except 167. The 30 points were accumulated on pins by Iannotti, Everett Yelton, and Peter Keny0n and decisions by D'Antuono, Jeff Kur- zius, Tom Tripp, Dick Rosener and Barry Qo,rn- wall. Rochester's only tally was by a decision of their star, Jim Mitchell, over Brian Crandall. Oneonta Tough Against Oneonta, the grapplers :faced their severest test of the year. Frank D'Antuono started with a fall, but was followed by Ron Iannotti's first and only loss of the year. Then Jeff Kurzius drew, Tom Tripp pinned, and Dick Rosener won on a decision to make the score 15-5. However, Oneonta's heavier weights put out tremendously and scored three consecutive decisions over Read, Crandall, and Cornwall to make the score 15-14 with only the heavyweight mat::h remaining. Fortunately enough, Al Bas- kous was at heavyweight and the Garnet senior had no trouble in decisioning his opponent 10-1 and securing Union's 18-14 victory. The Clarkson match proved much easier than expected. However, the Garnet were ready for a tough match and won handily, 23-10. The St. Lawrence match on Saturday proved to be no struggle, and the Garnet won 31-9 with Ron Ianotti, Brian Crandal:l, and AI Baskous pinning their foes. Only a match against Colgate at Alumni Gym next Wednesday stands between the Garnet and an unbeaten season. If you're a '67 Grad ••• YOU'VE GOT A DATE· Thursday, March .2 with the Man from Dow If you really want to do something, be somebody and use your ability, you won't risk missing this one. Regardless of your field- Chemical, Mechanical, Industrial, Electrical or other disciplines 'of Engineering, Chemistry, Marketing, Business Administra- tion, liberal Arts- if you like doing and accomplishing, chances are there's a unique spot for you .in our diversified research, development, manufacturing, marketing or related areas. This is ONE DATE you'll want to make - and KEEP! ContC~d your Placement Office today. If you can't see the Man from Dow, contact: Director of Corporate Recruiting THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY;·- P.O. Box 622 · Midland, Michigan 48640 Locations in nearly every state in the country and throughout the entire free world, with major manufacturing locations in: California • Colorado • Illinois •lr:1diana • Louisiana • Ohio • Michigan • Texas An equal opportunity employer I Fo1 p , Pro~ lndi~ By RICHAI The Unior Graduate Pro operating su to a bl'ight : cordipg to ~ Dean of Fact Two Indian J.VI. Bhagi anc are now doir Science and I are· on Iull g1 the college. September,. t along with tb students fror India for wl of the Scien1 ter, describe1 and .practical a year ·in Inc complete pre lems in thei completed p1 tial fulfillmf for a master He The progr Dean Lockw \happy acci< favorable ci for such a in March, 1! were two I at Union in Administrati Indian engii and General described t which contr with India 1 try. He descril the PI'esenc< Prof. Henr~ sabbatical. ence in Indi representati tablish and Also at thi Suri, head Institute of in Schenec1 government Suri was ning such a later able tape in the low th..e e~ a year eru Deans Loc cited Suri for much o cess. Last sun Jc Manfred to a full p depmtment Theodore <t week. Jonas, 'VI rank in Se] ~ as assistan 1963, and fessor the: was appoir ate progrru also direct' the Advan Union last a similar i Jonas gr of New Yo of science and receiv ·~· gree in l following ~ ate in hist Frorn 19 ~ Free Unh

